L

ALONZO JUDSON MONROE
cJrani'l ~astrr
l.912

Grand Lodge of California
I, ]OHN WurcHJtR, Grand Secretary of the M:. w:. Grand Lodge
Qf Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-third
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of Los Angeles on
Tuesday, the eighth day of October, A. L. 5912, and terminated on
Friday, the twelfth day of said month.

llu westimnuy -~rrenf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this thirtyfirst day of October, in the
year of Light, Five Thousand
Nine Hundred and Twelve.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

111 rtt aull Arrepttll iias nus
OF THS

Jurisdic~ion of CaliforniC\,
A,T ITS

SIXTY - THIRD

ANNUAL

COMMUNICATlON,

HET.P AT THE

ClTY OF LOS ANGELES,
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 8th, A. D. 1912, A. {... .5912,

,

AND TER?i{i;oiATING O~

Frida.y, O<:tQbcu 12th, A. D. 1912, A. L. 5912.
.. . ~

..

"""''''

SAN FRANCISCO:
SHA.NNON-CONlllY PRIJ<TING Co., 509 SANSOlllE STREET

1912

..

GRAND · OFFICERS
OF THI!

Grand Lodge of California .
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 59 12.

M:. w:. WILLIAM P. FiLMER ..... Grand Master .... San Francisco

R:. w:. JoHN D. MURPHEY .. .. . . Dep. Gr. Master . . Bridgeport
R: · W: · BENJ. F. BLEDSOE .. .. . .. .Sen. Gr. Warden . . San Bernardino
R. ·· W •· · ALBERT G. BURNETT ..... Jun. Gr. Warden . . Santa Rosa
v:. w:. EDWARD COLE.MAN . .. ... .Grand Treasurer . . San Francisco
v:. w:. JOHN WHICHER ........ .Grand Secretary . . San Luis Obispo
(P. 0. address, 412 Hewes Building, San Francisco)
v:. w:. THOMAS J. BAKER .... . . .Grand Lecturer ... Sacramento
(P. 0. address, 412 Hewes Building, San Francisco)
v:. R:. Enwrn A. SHERMAN .... . Grand Chaplain .. . Oakland
w:. W. RHODES HERVEY . . .. Grand Orator ..... LosAngeles
w:. H;ARRY S. JOHNSON ..... . Ass't Gr. St'C'y .... San Francisco
w:. WILLIAM KETTNER . . ... . Grand Marsha./. .. San Diego
w:. JosHuA D. TUCKER ..... . Gr. Stan'd Bearer.Honolulu
w.·. LEoV. YoUNGWORTH .. .. Gr. Sword Bearer . LosAngeles
w:. WILLIAMS. MosEs ...... Gr. Bible B earer . . San Francisco
w:. BEN LEVI. ....... ...... . Sen: Gr. Deacon . . San Francisco
w:. FRED B..Woon .... , ..... . Jun. Gr. · Deacon . . San Francisco
W.'. ROLANDE. H(ARTLEY ...... Sen. Gr. Steward.. San Fr;lncisco
w:. BENJ. B. TUTTLE . ..... . Jun. Gr. Steward . . Davis
W. •. THEODORE J. MILLIKEN . . .G_r. Pursuivant . .. . Sacramento
W. •. SAMUEL D. MAYER . .... . Grand Organist ... San Francisco
W:. GEORGE P. AnAMs . . , .•. .. Grand Ty_ler .·....• San Fr~ncisco

GRAND L ODGE
OF

1J1rrr auh .Arrrptrh flasnus
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA.
SIXTY-THIRD ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Sixty-third Annual Communication at First Congregational Church in the city of Los Angeles, on Tuesday, the
8th day of October, A. L. 5912, at 10 o'clock a. m.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Credentials. reported the presence of
all the Grand Officer~ (e"cept the Grartd 'tr~surer) as
follows:
··

11111.ler the direction of our dear old Samuel D. Mayer,
Organist, and the following prayer by the Grand
<:haplain:

OFi"ICERS

PRAYl':lt.

M.'.W.'. Atotuo J. MoNltl:i!i • . " ....... .. ....... , . , ••. . . Gro1M Master
R.'.W.'. W1tl:.IAM: P. ll'tr,Mllit ••••....•.•....... . Depttiy Grand Master
R.'.W.'. JottN D. M:u•NU\> ..... : .. : ...... ,., . .Stllior Grand Warden
R.'.W.'. aENJ, F. BtEDS0£ ........•......... " .lut.it>r Grand Warden
V.'.W.'. JoHN WaicHEit. ........•....•..••......... . Grdnd SFcreta.ry
V.'.W.'. >raoMAs j, BA~tit ..... , .............. ,. ... • . Grand lecturer
V.'. lt.' · SAM:U1'L F:. l:h:}lt!CE .. . .. .... , ...... . .......... Grand Chaplain
M.'.W.'. JAM:t:s A. FosuAv ............................ . Grand Ora.t or
W.' · HA!mY S. JoltNsON' .. .... . ... . .. . . . Assishillt Grand Stctetary
w.:. Wi:tLrAM KETTNl!lt . .... ·....................... Grand Marshal
w:. JosnuA D. 'l'ucll:l!lt ........•......... .Gra1td Stattdard Btarer
W.'. OsM:OND M. ROBBINS ............. .... .. Grand Sword Bearer
W.'. WILLIAM S. Mos1ts . ....... .... .. . . ..... . Grand Bible Bearer
W.'. JoaN H:. BtiAN.1 ...................... S.miot Crcittd Deacon
W.'. Bl':N LEv1. ......................... : .. .Jultior Grand Deacon
W .'. WILLIAM E. MESERVEY .. . ... .. ....... . Senior Gran·d Steward
W.'. BENJAMIN B. 1'u'l'TLE.... . .... .. ... . . .Junior Grand Steward
W.'. THEODORt]. MJLLIKEN . . . .... . ......... . . . . Grand Pursuivant
W.'. SAMUiiL D. MAYElt ....... . ................. . Grand Organist
W.'. GEo. P. ADAMS .. . ..... .... .. . . . . ............ . .. . Grand Tyler

Almighty God I Our Heavenly Father! We reverently come to
Thee this morning, asking that Thy divine blessing rest upon those
uaembled here in Thy presence. Bless and prosper the Institution of
Masonry, which has been dedicated to Thy holy name for the uplifting
•>f ·mankind. We ask Thee to remember and bless those of our number
who are unable to be with us today on account of trouble, sickness, or
any other adversity. M'ay they feel that Thy benediction rests upon
them always, . and enable them .to say from the fullness of their hearts,
"Thy will be done." Especially we ask Thee to bless those of our
number who have worked in the vineyard of this fraternity early and
late; those whose heads have grown gray with the weight of years;
nnd may their reward be the priceless jewels of Patience and Content.
And, Heavenly Father, we ask The'e to guide and direct the young
inen of this Institution in the paths of rectitude and virtue. Enable
them to build pure and upright !!haracters, the noblest attribute of mart:
prepare them for the day that must come when the responsibiHties of
this great fraternity shall rest upon them.
We ask Thee, Almighty God, to be with Thy servant whose duty
it is to preside over this asseml;ily. Enable him to do momentarily that
which deliberation would impel him to do. And when our pilgrimage
here upon earth is ended, and the hour of probation has drawn to a
close, may it be our happy lot to assemble in that Grand Lodge on
high, whose doors shall never close-in that "house not made with
hands, eternal in the heavens."
All thes·e blessings we ask in Thy name, Almighty God ; and to
Thee we ascribe all honor and glory, now and forever. Amen.

6

PAST GRAND MASTERS.

M::.w:. Ibrnw S. 01ti.t£.

:M:.w:. W1ttIAM: s. WnLs

M.'.W.'. WILLIAM T. LUCAS
M.'.W.'. THOMAS FLINT
M.".W.'. FRANK M. ANGELLO'l'TI
M:.w:. JAMEs A. FosHAv

M.'.yY.'. MOTLEY H. FLINT
M.'.W.'. GEORGE M. PERINE
M.'.W.'. OSCAR LAWLER
M.-.w,·. DANA R. WELLER

R.'.W.'. CHARLES E. MITCiiiii:.t . ... ... .. . . . Past Junior Grand Warden

and the Officers and :ltepresentatives of more. than a Constitutional number of Lodge.s to open Grand L~dge. The
Committee was· granted, on request, further time in which
to render a final report . .
The Grand Lodge was then opened in Ample Fornt 1
with music by the Los Angell!s Scottish Rite Choir, com·
posed of Brothers Walke.r, McCotnas, Chick and · Gtegg,

7

<irand

The Grand Master then delivered his annual address,
as follows:
BRETHREN OF THt GRAND Looof::
The Grand Lodge of the Jurisdiction of California has been opened
in Ample Form for its Sixty-third ~nnual Communication. In obedience to our Constitution, this written message is now presented to you,
thereby setting forth 'all my official acts during the year, exhibiting the
general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and recommending
such legislatioll as seems necessary or expedient for the welfare of the
Craft.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

For the fitis.t time since the organization of the Grand Lodge, one
of its Annual Communications is being held in the city of Los Angeles.
Our new Masonic Temple in San Francisco is uncompleted. ·The Craft
of the State h;ave been glad to ho)d this Communication in this splendid .
metropolis of Southern California. Los Angeles is a city whose moral
and civic life is clean and in h·a rmony with Masonic i.deals. It is a city
of many Masonic Lodgesi. During my visits· in Southern California
last June and July, a citizen of this city declared to the National
Municipal League, assembled here, that Los Angeles has no slum or
red light district. That was a proud boast. It could not be made of
any other ci•y of equal population in the United States. This city is,
therefore, a fit place for the annual meeting of the great fraternity that
"has for its fotindatio.n the practice of the moral and social virtues."

( )n April 11, 1912, the Grand Lodge was convened at Santa Monica
111 M.'. W .'. Past Grand Master WeUer, who laid the corner-stone of
1111 Public High School in ancient form.

8

CORNER-STONE OF OAKLAND CITY HALL.

After installation on Friday, October 13, 1911, the Grand Lodge was
·called off and the offioens and members of the Grand Lodge proceeded
to the city of Oakland. There, in the presence of the largest gathering
ever assembled in Oakland, including thousands of Masons, the cornerstone of the new City Hall was laid. Brother William H . Taft, President of the United States, was present as the guest of Oakland, and
delivered the address. The Grand Master, in accepting the invitation
from the Mayor of Oakland, remarked that it had been i;:ustomary from
time immemorial for the Cra£,t to lay corner-ston~ of public buildings ;
that it had the approval of no less a character than President Washington, who as a Master Mason laid the corner-stone ·o f the Capitol at
Washington. After laying this corner-stone, the Grand Lodge was
duly closed in San Francisco.
SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS.

The Grand Lodge convened at Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory, on
October 2i, 1911, under direction of W.'. Joshua D. Tucker, Grand
Standard Bearer, who laid the corner-stone of Carnegie Library in
strict accordance with our ritual.
On December 4, 1911, I convened the Grand Lodge at San Francisco and installed R.'. W.'. Deputy Grand Master William P. Filmer.
The Grand Lo<;lge was convened again at Tehama, by myself, for
the purpose of dedicating the fine enlarged and improved Masonic Temple of Molino Lodge No. 150.
On March 23, 1912, I convened the Grand Lodge at Willows for
the purpose of dedicating the magnificent new Masonic Temple of
Laurel Lodge No. 245. This was done in a large assemblage of the
Masons and people of that city.

9

R.'. w:. Junior Grand Warden Bledsoe, at my request, convened
1111 Grand Lodge at Pasadena on June 8, 1912, and laid the corner-stone
11( the magnificent High School Building in that city.
LODGES CONSTITUTED.

The following Lodges were duly constituted within 1Sixty days after
charters granted to them at the last .Annual Communication:
Upland No. 419, Upland, S~ n Bernardino county;
Kerman No. 420, Kei:man, Fresno county;
Inglewood No. 421, Inglewood, Los Angeles county;
Eagle Rock No. 422, Eagle Rock, Los Angeles county.
DISPllNSATIONS FOR NEW I,ODGES.

Dispensations to form new Lodges have been issued as follows :
October 12, 1911, York Lodge, at Watts, Los Angeles county;
October 12, i911, Exeter Lodge, at Exet~r, Tulare county;
October 12, 1911, Holtville Lodge, at Holtville, Imperial county;
October 17, 1911, Midway Lodge, at Taft, Kern county;
October 30, 1911, Chino Valley at Chino, San Bernardino county;
November 28, 1911, San Dimas Lodge, M San Dimaisi, Los Angeles
county;
February 17, 1912, Pittsburg Lodge, at Pittsburg, Contra Costa
county;
April 22, 1912, McCloud Lddge, at McCloud, Siskiyou county;
April 24, 1912, Alpha Lodge, at Richmond, Contra Costa county i
June 10, 1912, Hammonton Lodge at Hammonton, Yuba county;
July 5, 1912, Roseville Lodge, · at Roseville, Placer county,

SPECIAL DISPENSATIONS.

Numerous applications for dispensations were made. A list of those
granted is set forth in the Grand Secretary's report. Before granting
dispensations a strict compliance by applicants with the Constitution has
been required and a sufficient cause made to appear.

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE (}F CALIFORNIA

1m>tectihg cilte. I was attended by W>. Brother E. B. Spehcer, one
,,£ the Board of Trustees of the Home. He ha! given very n\uch valu•ble time arid loving labor irl making this Home a succe·ss. To him particularly, together with the whole Board of Trustee~, since~e and hearty
thanks and appreciation should be given in the name of the whole
body of California Masons for their disittterested vrork.

DECISlONS.

M:. w:. Past Grand Master Lawlor submitted copies of his decisions to the chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence some weeks
before the Annual Communication of the Gr:tttd Lodge. He also submitted the original papers irt each case. In their report the Committee
on Jurisprudence expr,eSJSed the hope that the action taken by Brother
Lawlor would be a precedent for all incoming Grand Masters. I have
complied with this desire of the committee, except that I have not r,e- .
ported several decisions that were merely a reference to the Constitution
and decisions. 'I'he decisions given to the Committee on Jurisprudence
are not reported here, as they will appear in the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence. It is not necessary that they should appear
twice in the Proceedings.
BOARDS OF RELIEF.

The reports of the several Boards of Relief, setting forth the work
which has been done by them during the past year, will be presented to
you. That work is 'Worthy of high commendation. ~t i,s. the putting
into practice out of the Lodge some· of the things we are taught in it.
It is proof that Masonry is not confined within narrow or selfish lines
of action, but has a universality all its own. The good and true Masons
who are the members of these Boards, who give much valuable time
and labor to this work, and who ar,e the instruments of the Craft in
dispensing the benefits of Masonic brothethood, deser~e high praise.
It is with pleasure and gratification that ·the obligation o·f the fraternity
to them for their disinterest,ed 13;bor .is acknowledged here.

MASONIC HOMES.

I report that at the Masonic Home at Decoto everything is progressing satisfactorily. Under the able direction of the Board of Trustees,
s.econded by · the conscientious and capable Superintendent, Brother
F. B. Hartman, the Home is managed well. Every,thing is done that
can be done for the contentment, comfort and happiness of the aged
men and women who find :shelter there in their declining years. The
Trustees one and all are .deeply interested in making the Home a witness to the practice of that Masonic charity and brotherly love which
should distinguish Masons everywhere, ,and which gives dignity and
reputation to our noble fraternity.
I had the great ple:asure in July to spend some hours at the San
Gabriel Home, where are kept the boys and girls who are under our

11

'.

To visit this Home and see the well-behaved, healthy, happy and
contented children of our deceased brothers, who might otherwise be
thrown on the cold charity of the wor1d; to see them being guided into
paths of usefulness and virtue; to feel that they will be a credit to the
Home which sheltered them, is to be entirely convinced that the results attained at this Home are worth again and ·again all of the cost in
money and personal sacrifice to maintain it. The administration of the
Hoihe is well organized and its affairs economically administered. A
well-ltept giatden, chickens arid dairy cows are features that help to keep
down expenses. The boys a.nd girls are taught to work and be helpful
in and about the Home. The watchful care of the Trustees follow them
into the outer world to guard, advise and help them. The Trustees find
positions fot those who leave the Home, where they can learn a trade
or vocation. Brother Spencer took me to places where three of
"our" boys were employed in Los Angeles. They were contented and
happy. Sev-en boys, and three girls have left the Home and are doing
well.
I commend ,the work of the Home at San Gabriel. All honor to the
and Masons who maintain and admin~ster this Home. Their highest reward Is in the cotisdousness of
inestimable service to some of their fellow beings. The noblest and
greatest service that man can give to man is ,that which uplifts and
ennobles another. All who contribute in service or support to this
Home are entitled to credit. Their work is not on "tll.e canvas that shall
perish, or the marble that shall crumble into dust, but upon mihd, upon
spirit, which is to last forever, and which is to bear, for good or evil,
throughout eternity, the impress of a teacher's plastic hand."
Truste.e~, the teachera, the frietids

COMMITTEE ON HOME ENDOWMENT FUND.

The Special Committee on Mas,onic Home1 in its report to the
Annual Communication of 1909, earnestly recommended that the Grand
Master appoint a permanent committee of nine members of the Grand
Lodge, to be known as "The Endowrtl.eht Fund Committee of the
Masonic Homes of Califorrliai" who should devise ways and means to
taise an endowment fund of $1,00Q,000 for the homes. (Pro. 1909, page

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CAL!FO.R NIA

168.) This recommendation wa.-; adopted. (Id., page 159.) Our lamented M.". W:. Brother Pierce stated in his annual address that
M.". W .;. Brother Lawlor ·had appointed him chairman of that committee, with power .to appoint other members to fill it. Owing to• failing health and other reasons, M.". w:. Brother Pierce did not appoint
the other members of the committee. (Pro. 1910, p. 15.) At our Annual
Communication in 1911 M.". w:. Brother Weller appointed as such
permanent committee w:. Brother Edward S. Valentine (chairman),
w:. Brothers James H. McLafferty, Edward Coleman, William P . Filmer, Charles W. Norton, Motley H. Flint, Edward Strasburg, William
E. J. Baughman and George M. Perine.
The progress made by this permanent committee will appear when
their annual report is read. Br-0thers, the object of this committee is
one of the noblest that can appeal to the heart -0f a Mason. The
brethren of California should raise this endowment fund. If our 50,000
Masons would give $1 a year for five years on the average the fund
would have a quarter of a million dollars. And that money would
continue its work of beneficence in caring for aged and helpless Masons
and their widows and -0rphans when the fleeting desires and vanities of
this time have passed into oblivion.
Any Mason who would take this matter in hand earnestly could
raise an average of $1 per capita from his Lodge for this fund. Our
glorious new Masonic Temple will soon be completed. When it is dedicated, what gratifying achievement to have made substantial advance
in raising this fund? Would any say "impossible"? To him let Carlyle reply: "Know that 'impossible,' where truth and mercy and the
everlasting voice of nature order, has no place in the brave man's dictionary. That when all men have said 'impossible' and tumbled noisily
elsewhither, and thou alone art left; then first thy time and possibility
have come. It is for thee now; do thou that, and ask no man's counsel, but thine own only and God's."

RJlVISJlD FUNJlRAL SJlRVICJl.

In his annual report 'in 1910 V.". w:. Grand Lecturer Baker stated
that a number of brethren had reques-ted that the Funeral Service be
revised and placed in the Manual. The Grand Lecturer suggested that
the Funeral Service be referred to the incoming Grand Master for revision. (Pro. 1910, page 126.) This suggestion was adopted by the
Grand Lodge and the .Funeral Service was referred to M.". w:. Brother
Weller for revision. Brother Weller submitted to me the revised Funeral Service early in ·the year. . After careful perusal it was returned

without suggesting any change.

.13

M.". w:. Brother Weller's revision

has shortened and greatly improved the Funeral Service. For hior; work
he deserves the thanks of the Grand Lodge. The Funeral Service as
now adopted appears in the book containing our new Constitution.

NJlW CONSTITUTION, ANNOTATJlD.

At the last Annual Communication M.". w:. Charles L. Patton,
for the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented an Annotated Constituc
tion, practically eliminating all Decisions and Regulations. The former
Regulations and many Decisions are now incorporated as part of the
Constitution. The Decisions not so incorporated are referred to in
notes under the appropriate sections of the Constitution. Of the 91
Regulati-Ons then existing all but one have either been placed in the
new Constitution or repealed. This new Constitution enacts in constitutional form the former Constitution and practically all other legislation
down to the date of its adoption properly included in a Constitution.
This new Constitution as annotated and with cross referencelSI will
be of . immense benefit to the whole Craft. Heretofore the body of
Masonic law was contained in so many different volumes of Proceedings, in Resolutions, Regulations, Recommendations of Grand Officers
Adopted, and Decisions by Grand Masters, .that it was often difficult
. for Mai~ers of Lodges to ascertain what the existing law was. These
difficulties are now re~oved. For the first time there is an index to
the Constitution. By its use nearly every question of Masonic law and
procedure can be decided.
The work of ·revising the old Constitution and including the Regulations and Decisions and Annotations has been immense. I understand that we are indebted principally to M.". W:. Brother Patton for
this great work, which cost him a vast amount of time and labor. His
great work entitles him .to the fullest gratitude of the Craft. It will
stand as a monument to his zeal, ability and useful labor for the fraternity.
Besides the index, the book as publi°shed contains in the beginning
a complete table showing the sections of the old Constitution and Regulations which correspond with the sections of the new Constitution.
The Manual as now published by the G!"and Secretary contains the
Uniform Code of By-laws and the various ceremonies of the fraternity.
The Grand Secretary has also published in this volume a table of the
Anci~nt Landmarks, and certtain of the ancient written Charges, Regulations and Constitution.s. The readings of these will be instructive

14

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and profitable to the Craft. The compiling and printing of this volume
reflects great credit upon the ability and judgment of our v:. w:.
Grand Secretary Brother Whicher.

life and example as a just and upright ·Mason, as well as by gifts,
V.'. w:. Brother Coleman has won the brotherly love and affectionate
r11ard of his brethren of the Craft. Our brother's portrait will adom
a conspicuous place in our new Masonic Temple. I now ask you to
ratify my act in authorizing this portrait to be obtained.

TYLl!R's REGISTER.

· In visiting Lodges I w~s surprised to find in three Lodges that the
entrieli and 1Siignatures ht their Tyler'-s Register were made with an ordin.ary lead pencil. Officers and members alike signed with a lead pencll. Tile Tylers, in answer ta my inquiries, pleaded ignorance. Part
IV, Art. V, Sec. 2 (151), New Con., provide& t4at the Secretary shall
keep a Tyler'& Regiiter in which all members and visitors shall record
their names, etc. It is, therefore, the particular dµty of Secretaries as
well as the Master ta 151ee that the Register is properly kept by the
Tyler. The fospectQU in the districts where the Tyler'11 Register is thus
kept should see this error corrected.
·

INDEX SYSTEM FOR V~SITORS.

Several ~-dges in our jurisqicti9n 11re now usin~ an Index Card
System for vmtors kept by the 'fyler. T~ visitor writes on a card
hisi name, pumber of his l,pdg<e, wl'\o vouches for hiQt, date to which
his dues are p11id, qate of arrivill, residence, date of qimit, etc. These
cards are indeJ>ed and the Tyler is thus epapl,ed to <1lways know the
standing and rights of visiting brotf"!ers. T4i& syste111 i~ well worth investigating and is recommended to the consiqei'<1tion of the Loqges of
the j urisdictfon.
PORTRAIT OF V1111Y WOjlSl'IIPfUI, ~111\Nll 'l'll!IASURER Bl!OTl!ER COL:i\~..\?i.

Early in the year our thoughtful V.'. w:. Brother Whicher ~ug­
gested that, while our beloved Brother v:. w:. Coleman was in good
health, and strength, although of advanced age, his portrait should be
secured. . This met with my hearty approval. "A moment lost is an
opport11nity for rnisfQrtt1ne," The Grand Secretary was directed to ask
I\rother Coleman to sit for hi~ portr11it for the · Crand Lodge. The
priceless ~ift of a perf.ectly furni~P.ed and equipped hospit.;11 at Pecoto,
for which no expense was ·withheld, W<lJSI a generous act of ministry
born . our noble brother to our aged and decrnpit brethren at our
Masonic Home. It was· a means of relieving their distress and to compassionate their miserie&. May we not quote in all sincerity of heart
these wol'ds from the Great Light of Masonry: 1'Whosoever will be
great among you, let him be your minister." By his personality, his

15

VISITATIONS.

During the past year visits were made to Lodges in more than forty
of the Masonic districts. On very many of these· visits V:. W:.
Brother Baker's presence added greatly to the gratification of the occasion. Great pleasure was received in meeting the mem~rs and installing the officers of sixteen Lodges. The third degree of Masonry
was conferred by, me twice during official visits. Once in Eel River
Lodge and the other time in Richmond Lodge, San Francisco, where
R:. w:. Brother Filmer acted as Senior Warden, v:. w:. Bl'other
Baker as Senior Deacon, the other positiQ{IS being filled by Grand Officers and Inspectors. On a visit to Nievada City I installed w:.
Brother Meservey Senior Grand Steward. These official visits covered
territory from Humboldt county to San Diego. Everywhere the greatest hospitality and protherly courtesy was shown the Grand Master.
"The deepesit feelings have no words at all." I can but feebly express
to my brethren who showed me as Grand ?>faster so much brotherly
kindness my profound thanks iand sincere appreciation. My Pasadena
brethren presented me with a beautiful gold-mounted trowel, suitably .
engraved, which shall be kept as a prized memento of the delightful
visit to their Lodge.
With the v:. w:. Brother Baker, a visit was made to Rising Star
Lodge No. 83, at Forest Hill, in Placer county, in the Sierra Nevada
Mountains. In that old mining town we stood on the spot where on
August 25, 1859, Colonel E. D. Baker, in addressing 3,(X() miners, uttered these immortal words :
"When yo·u speak to the poet of freedom, his lip quivers with inspiration, his heart glows, and the numbers break out as the stream
dashes from the mountain top to seek the valley below-bright, clear,
sparkling, FREE. I love freedom; I will speak her words ; I will listen to
her music; I will acknowledge her impulses; I will stand beneath her
flag l I will fight in her ranks ; and when I do so I shall find mys.e lf
surrounded by the great, the wise, the good, the brave, the noble of
every land. If I could stand for a moment upon one of your high mountain tops, far above rall the kingdoms of the civilized world, and there
might see, coming up, one after another, the bravest and wisest of the
ancient warriors and statesmen, and kings and monarchs and priests,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DEAD OF OTHER JURISDICTIONS.

and if, as they come up, I might be permitted to ask from them an excase as this, with commop voice and
m thunder tones, reverberating through a thousand valleys and echoing
down the ages, they would cry : 'Liberty, freedom, the universal brotherhood of man I' (Cheers upon cheers.) I join tha.t shout; I swell that
anthem; I echo that praise forever and forevermore."
~ression of opinion upon such a

Fifty-three years have passed since those words were spoken. We
ha".e assembled in this Queen City o~ the South as the representatives
of a mighty fraternity whose principle tenet is the universal brotherhood
of man. In aspiration, in hope, in purpose, in achievement, we are in
harmony ·~with the great, the wise, the good, the brave, the noble of · ·
eve_ry land." The words of the great orator have echoed down the
years from the mountain height where they were spoken, and still will
· echo on forever and forev'innore.
I regret exceedingly that more visits could not have b.een made.
More would have been made had it been possible. It is with a full
and grateful heart 1 that the overwhelming kindness of the brethren is
recalled.
"Since it has been my very joy to find
At every turning of the road
The strong arm of a comrade kind
To help me onward with my 1-0ad;
And since I have no gold to give,
And love alone must make amends,
My only prayer is, while I live,
God. make me worthy of my friends."

.

, NECROLOGY.

.

With grateful ·h earts we thank the Great Architect of the Universe
that the cycle of Time has not cut down any officer of this Grand
Lodge since our last Annual Communication. But our brethren of
'other Grand Jurisdictions have not been thus spared. "All that live
must die, passfog through nature to eternity." With sincerest sympathy and fraternal affection we participate in the sorrow of our brethren of other jurisdictioDs for their dead. The Grim Reaper has indeed taken heavy toll from the great -and distinguished Masons of our
country. Following is the roster of those who now answer to the roll
call in the Celestial Lodge on high :

-:

Adams, Samuel Emery, Past Senior Grand Warden of Minnesota;
born December 1, 1828; died March 29, 1912.
Allmond, John P., Past Grand Master of Delaware; born May 6,
1835 ; died March 24, 1912.
.
Bahnson, Charles F., Past Grand Lecturer of North Carolina; born
February 15, 1840; died February 16, 1911.
Baker, Lewis Jackson, Past Grand Master of Iowa; born May 13,
1850; died November 8, 1911.
Basset, Samuel, ~st Grand Master of Connecticut; born September 24, 1841; died August 14, 1911.
.
.
· Clark, Charles Cauthorn, Past Grand Master of North Caro Ima;
born December 8, 1829; died October 30, 1911.
Cobb, John S., Past Grand Master of Mississippi; born April 15,
1853; died January 17, 1912.
Delap, Enoch George, Past Grand Master of M!s6issippi; born 1839;
died December, 1911.
Dingley, William Henry, Grand Treasurer of Alabama since 1870;
born December 18, 1824; died September 16, 1911.
Evans, M. M., Past Grand Master of Mississippi; born 1850;
died November 9, 1911.
Fellows, Liberty Eaton, Past Grand Master of Iowa; born August
22, 1834; died July 17, 1912.
Cay, James Bacon, Grand Master of Rhode Island; born November
30 1846; died November 25, 1911.
' Howard, Hiram Reese, Grand Secretary of West Virginia; born
February 17, 1843; died May 9, 1912.
Hunter, Rollin Madison, Past Grand Master of Iowa; born December 29, 1858; died June 26, 1912.
Langford, Nathaniel Pitt, Past Grand Master of Montana; born
August 9, 1832; died October 18, 1911.
Lawrence, Samuel Crocker, Past Grand Master of Massachusetts;
born November 22, 1832; died September 24, 1911.
Long, Jacob L'Hommedieu, Past Deputy Grand Master of Ohio;
born June 28, 1833; died May 31, 1912.
McDonald Charles William, Past Grand Treasurer of South Dakota; born Juiy 25, 1845; died March 11, 1912.'
·
Miller, Daniel McLaren, Past Grand Master of Wiscons.in ; born
1836; died April 25, 1912.
Moye, Francis M., Past Grand Master of North Carolina; born
August 7, 1839; died May 28, 1911.
Pelan, William, Grand Chaplain of Washington; born October 14,
1822; died September 21, 1911.
2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Prescott, George Washington, Past Grand Master of Minnesota;
born October 20, 1826; died in California March 21, 1912.
Ross, William, Past Grand Master of Nova Scotia; born December
20, 1825; died March 17, 1912.
Sinn, William A., Grand Secretary of Pennsylvania; died October
17, 1911.
W ellfqrd, Beverly Randolph, Jr., Past Grand Master of Virginia ;
b~rn May 10, 1828; died September 19, 1911.
While with reverence and with sorrow the bodie~ of our noble
brothers have been deposited in the tomb, their raised spirits live and
flourish in immortal youth.

2. Some months, since, communications were received from the
Oumd Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Mississippi, and other Grand
J uriadictions, asking co-operation in having revoked an order of the
War Department prohibiting Masonic emblems upon monuments and
markers in the national cemeteries.
Upon writing to M.'. w:. Past Grand Master Senator Perkins, he
·1cnt the following reply:

18

"There is no death ! The stars go down
To rise upon some other shore,
And bright in Heaven's jeweled crown
They shine forever more.
There is no death! Although we grieve
When beautiful, familiar forms
That we have learned to love are torn
From our embracing arms;
Although with bowed and breaking heart,
With sable garb and silent tread,
We bear our senseless dust to rest,
And say that they are dead.

!.

They are not dead ! Tirey hav~ but passed
·Beyond the mists that blind us here,
Into the new and larger life
Of that serener sphere."
FOREIGN RELATIONS.

Last spring, after consulting with R.'. W.'. Brother Filmer and
our Grand Secretary regarding the disastrous floods on the lower
Mississippi River, the latter wa.51 directed to telegraph an offer of financial assistance to the Grand Masters of Arkansas and Mississippi. This
as_sistance was very courteously declined. The correspondence is set
forth in the Grand Secretary's report. -California Masons will never
forget the generous aid given to stricken San Francisco after the great
disaster of 1906. To the world and particularly to the brethren of other
jurisdictions, who were so genetous in our hour of need, may we ever
prove that the bread -of brotherly love that was cast upon our waters
then will return to them when needed after many da:v&.

19

UNITED STATES SENATE.
August 20, 1912.
lion. A. !. Monroe, Worshipful Grand Master,
Grand Lodge, F. and A. M., Eureka, California.
MY DEAR Sm AND BROTHER: Replying to your favor of recent date,
In relation to the· order of the W•ar Department, prohibiting Masonic
rmblemsi on monuments in national cemeteries, I took the matter up
with the Secretary of War and am pleased to hand you herewith
reply, signed by the Quartermaster General, in which it is stated that
the regulations governing national cemeteries have been modified so
as to permit of the cutting of insignias or emblems of fraternal societies
•
on monuments therein.
, In accordance with your request, I enclose copy of House Joint
Resolution 271. This measure is still p·ending in committee in the
House and no action will be taken on it at this session by reason of the
modified order of the department.
I remain,
Fraternally yours,
GEO. C. PERKINS.
(Signed)

w AR DEPARTMENT.
August 19, 1912.
Honorable George C. Perkins, Un-ited Sta•tes Senate,
Washington, D. C.
MY DEAR Sm:
1. I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the
17th inst., addressed to the Secrdary of War, requesting information
concerning the War Department order prohibiting the placing -of Masonic emblems on monumeqts in national cemeteries.
2. In reply you ar e informed that the regulations governing monuments in national cemeteries have been modified so as to permit o·f the
cutting of insignias or emblems of fraternal societies on such monuments.
V•ery respectfully,
(Signed)
J. B. ALl!SHIRI!,
Quarterma.ster General, U. S. Army.
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF 'l;'HE

20

3. A communication has been received from the Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico requesting that fraternal rdations be
established with this Grand Lodge. The statement is made that some
of the Grand Lodges of the United States have recognized the Grand
Lodge of Porto Rico. This communication, with the accompanying
data, has been sent to M:. w:. Brother Hart, chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, for investigation and report to the Grand
Lodge.
4. A circular letter from the Grand Secretary of the "Supreme
• Government of the Grand East of the Netherlands," addressed to the
Grand Lodge of California, has been received. It is said in this letter
that a peace palace for the International Court of Arbitration is being
built at The Hague; that Andrew Carnegie has given 6,000,000 guilders
for . its erection; that as the Order of Freemasons is spreading Masonic
light over the world the Dutch brethren are of opinion that it is a good
symbolic idea to raise a sum to provide six great electric candles for
the great meeting hall of the Court of Arbitration. Eighty-five pounds
sterling are asked for that purpose as a contribution from this Grand
Lodge. This letter is submitted without recommendation.
5. It is with pleasure that aclcnowledgment is made on behalf of
the Grand Lodge of the gift or W ••. Brother Henry M. Owens of the
copyright of his exhaustive report on "Regular and Irregular Grand
Lodges-Sources of Title and Dates of Organizations." This report is
a valuable contribution to the Masonic literature on the subject of
which it treats. Many letters from Grand Officers of other jurisdictions have been received commending this report verY highly. This gift
•
was a.ccepted with si ncere than~s on behalf of the Grand Lodge.
0

6. A communication from "The International Masonic Club of
London," addressed t~ the Grand Master of California, was received.
Among other things, it is stated that the object of this club is to assist
in promoting international peace through the influence of the Masonic
fraternity. We are asked to unite with them in their laudable purpose.
This communication was duly acknowledged by me and has been
handed to the chairmaff of the Committee on Correspondence for further inquirY and report.

7. Several letters, circulars and pamphlets have been received. from
the grand Master of the Grand Lodge ·of Arkansas and brethren
It
is sta.t ed that many invalid Masons from outside jurisdictions
go to the Hot ·Springs for· the benefit of their health; that
about 300 annually are taken care of by the said Lodge or
its members ; that it proposed to erect a Masonic building to care for
invalid Masons who come to the Hot Springs and need assistance; that
9f Hot Springs Lodge No. 62, of Hot Springs, Arkansas.

21

the Government owns the Hot Springs and adjoining lands; that it has
agreed to give the Hot Springs Lodge a building site and .the right to
use the water. Hot Springs Lodge asks this Grand Lodge for its moral
support and if consistent with our judgment and the laws of this Grand
Jurisdiction, a letter of endorsement and the privilege to send the
appeal letter to constituent Lodges.
One of our Lodges asked if it could make donations from its Lodge
funds to the Arkansas Lodge for the purpose above stated. I referred
to Sec. 10, paragraph 88, New Constitution, which clearly forbids such
contributions from Lodge funds. The Grand Lodge could make such a
contribution if deemed advisable. The appeal of our Arkansas brethren
is .submitted without recommendation for the earnest conisderation of
the Grand Lodge.
8. Complaint was made to me that men who were residents of
California had gone to the States of Kansas and Nevada, respectively,
and had there been initiated, passed and raised in one case and initiated
and passed in the other. There had been no change of residence from
California. The attention of the Grand Masters of each of these
States was called to this invasion of our judsdiction and they at once
most courteously and fraternally directed the subordinate Lodges which
had committed the error to send the initiation fee to the California
Lodg.e having jurisdiction, together with a full and ample apology,
which direction was promptly obeyed.
9. On the 13th day of September, 1912, a letter, which follows,
was received from the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of N eva?a.
I at once acknowledged this, assuring M:. W: · Brothe·r Miles of Nevada that the fraternal spirit of his letter was appreciated. That the
matter would be laid before the Grand Lodge of California, as requested by him, and that without doubt this matter would be adjusted
to the satisfaction of the Grand Lodge of California, and that amity,
concord, peace and harmony, now prevailing between the two Grand
Lodges, should not in the least be interrupted.
GRAND Looo:E, Fu:E AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF NEVADA.
R:ENO, N:Ev., Wednesday, September 11, 1912.
Mr. Alonzo J. Monroe, M : . w:. Ma.ster of Masons in California,
Eureka, Ca.lifornia.
M:. w:. BROTHER:
Our Grand Lodge finds, as a result of an investigation made by
M:. w:. P1ast Grand Master Herman Davis, Grand Master 1911-12,
that our Douglas Lodge No. 12, situated at Genoa, Nevada, has been
laboring under the impression that it had a dispensation from the Grand

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge of California permitting ~aid Douglas Lodge to receive petitions
and initiate persons residing in Alpine county, California, east of the
summit of the Sierra Nevada Mountains, and that, under this view of
the facts, said Douglas Lodge has received petitions from, elected,
passed, and raised some dozen or more persons from said Alpine
cou11ty, east of the Sierra Nevada Mountains; that both the Lodge and
the petitioners acted in good faith and without any wrongful purpose
whatsoever.
As a matter of fact, said Douglas Lodge should have obtained a
waiver of jurisdiction in all cases of applications from material residing
in your jurisdiction.
Our Grand Lodge wishes me to explain the above matter to the

M:. w:. Grand Jurisdiction of California. Hence this letter.

There is no doubt in my mind that the brethren of our Douglas
Lodge No. 12 acted in all sincerity in the above matter. They thought
that, some time ago, perhaps so long ago that "the memory of man
runneth not to the contrary," the M: . w:. Grand Lodge of the State
of California had granted them a blanket waiver of all the material residing in Alpine county, California, east of the Sierra N evadas.
Kindly advise me, M:. w:. Sir, what I can do to adjust this
matter, so that you will be satisfied, that our respective Grand Jurisdictions may dwell together in amity, and concord, peace and harmony
prevailing.
With kindest fraternal regards, believe me, M:. w:. Brother,
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
(Signed)

H . W. MILiis, Grand Master.

In regard to the foregoing, the profane who have been made Master Masons in Douglas Lodge No. 12 of Nevada, and who at the time
.residing in California, are irregular Masons under the laws of California. They can be made regular Masons in two ways:
1. If still residing in Catifornia, by applying to the nearest place of
residence for the three degrees of Masonry and thereupon receiving
the same; or,
2. By applying to such Lodge in California to waive jurisdiction
in favor of the Nevada Lodge, and upon the same being granted being
"healed" in the Nevada Lodge.
If any of such irregular Masons have removed from the State, then
by either "of said methods in the Lodge in California which was nearest
their residence in this State when their petitions were received in said
Nevada Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

23

In the event that application is made for waiver from the California
Lodge to join a Lodge in Nevada, the California Lodge granting the
waiver is · entitled to be paid its regular fees. It has the right to waive
such fees. The determination of the waiver of · such fees rests with the
subordinate Lodge. I would suggest, in this case, but not to establish
any precedent, that the California Lodge or Lodges which might grant
such waivers, if applied for, might either waive such fees, or part thereof, or divide the same with the Nevada Lodge according to the circumstances and the particular residence in each case. This is only a
suggestion and the . matter is presented to the Grand Lodge for such
action as it may see fit to .take.
10. An invitat!on. was· received to attend the Second Annual Council of the George Washington Masonic National Association, held at
Alexandria, Virginia; on February 22, 1912, in person or by representative. I was unable to attend. The purpose of this Association is to
build at Alexandria a memorial to Washington, the Mason. Thirty-five
Grand Lodges have endorsed this movement. The next meeting of this
Association will be held in Alexandria on February 22, 1913. M:. w.:.
Brother Lawlor was the representative of this Grand Lodge at the meeting of the Association on February 22, 1911. I recommend that the
incoming Grand Master be authorized to appoint a representative from
this Grand 1,odge to the Association meeting on February 22, 1913.
OUR ISLAND LODGES

From letters received from our island Lodges, re·p ort is made that
they are growing and prosperous. Though far across the seas, the$e,
distant brothers are in our thoughts to-day, and to them we send our
choicest benedictions.
R!PORTS OF INSPECTORS.

Reports from 52 Inspectors, made upon blanks prepared and sent out
by our indefatigable Grand Lecturer, Brother Baker, have been receiver1.
These reports show the diligent and valuable work being done by the
Inspectors in their several districts. From them is gleaned the general
condition and progress of the constituent Lodges. It is reported that
the visitor's card index system has been adopted by several Lodges.
Many valuable and helpful suggestions are made by the Inspectors in
these repotts that might be of benefit to the fraternity in general.
Had they been received in tltne1 .they would have been submitted to tilt
Lodges in a circular letter. ·T hese suggestions are being carefully considered and will be art>anged and submitted to my successor in office
for such actioti a.s he may take.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STATE OF THE CRAFT.

l. It is gratifying to report that during the past year our beloved
institution has been making constant advance. Many men have offered
themselves as candidates for the mysteries of Freemasonry and have
been received into our fraternity. We now have nearly 50,000 Masons
in this Grand Jurisdiction. Eleven new Lodges have been granted dispensations and all are doing well. This means that eleven new altars
have been erected to Masonry; that upon them the fire of truth is ever
shining, diffusing light to all within its circle. Around these altars these
bands of friends and brethren meet, to renew their vows, to strengthen
their virtues, to increase their patriotism, and quicken their sense of
duty.
·
"Is aught so fair,
As virtue's friends·h lp; as the honored roof
Whither from highest heaven, immortal love
His torch ethereal and his golden bow
Propitious brings, and there a temple holds?"
But more gratifying than our material progress is the constant
growth and development of our Masonic ideals and obligations; for in
this respect also there is continual advance. Masons are more and more
exerting their influence and efforts for the improvement of the moral
and social conditions where they have their homes.
2. The work of building the new Masonic Temple at &m Francisco
is prooeeding with satisfying speed. Stone upon stone and arch upon
arch, it is rising to completion. The superintendent in charge of the
work promises that it will be finished in the coming May. The concrete .
work is now finished to the top. The stone arches are in place up to
the second story. The partitions of the various rooms are being laid.
Further subscriptions are needed as .the work progresses. To our good
brothers who have given so much time and thought and effort and support to the building of this mighty edifice are due the thanks and appreciation of the entire Craft May the Great Architect assi.st them in their
labors, as He did our ancient brethren at the building of the first Temple
on M/ount Moriah. An account of the progress of the work will appear
in the report of the President of the Trustees of the Masonic Temple.
AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION.

At our last Communication an amendment was proposed to the Constitution providing that Lodges shall not receive petitions for the degrees, or for affiliation, from men engaged in the saloon business; also,
making it a Masonic offense for Masons hereafter to enter upon that
. business. This proposed amendment is to be voted upon at this Annual Communication. To obtain information for the Craft as to what

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

legislation along this line has been enacted in ?ther Grand Jurisdic~io~s,
I sent a circular letter to the Grand Secretaries of the Grand Junsd1~­
tions of the United States and Canada, asking for a statement of their
laws on that subject These Grand Secretaries have made courteo~s
and prompt replies. A statement of such replies is appende~ to this
report. Exercising the power you have so generously vested 1~ me to
"recommend .such legislation as I may deem necessary or expedient for
the welfare of the Craft," I now recommend the passage of that Constitutional amendment. In the address delivered by me as Grand Orator
in 1904 to this Grand Lodge these words were spoken : "M~sonic i~­
stitutions were framed for the elevation of men. Masonry with all its
poWJer is arrayed against this evil." Also, "May t~e d~y come soon
when Masons everywhere and at all times may proclaim without a blush,
without hesitation or misgiving, that temperance is a cardinal virtue )
practised by Masons; when Masonry shall be a bulwark and a force in
the struggle against this mighty evil."
To-day I repeat those words. Abraham Lincoln, in life the great,
the humble, the just, the forgiving, now the immortal, sai~ in 1853, in an
address in Illinois : "The open saloon, or grog shop, ~s the greatest
tragedy of civilization." If his words are true, t~e~. it is just an~ ;i.ght
to declare that men who livie and fatten on this tragedy of c1v1hzation" shall not be allowed to participate in our privileges. I believe that,
though the saloon may be legalized by men, it is outlawed by the teachings of Masonry.
And if we shall by this amendment say to the man behind the bar,
or who owns the bar, "You cannot enter here," what of the man in
front of the bar? For the man in front of the bar pays the money that
induces the man to stand behind the bar. If no men stood in front of
the bar, there could be no man behind the bar; in fact, saloon bars
would cease to exist.
"Lest we forget," let us realize that when we condem.n the man behind the bar we cannot be just without blaming the man m front of the
bar.
RECOMMENDATIONS.

In addition to the recommend"1tions already made, the following
are submitted :
1. That the By~laws be amended so that the Treasurer and Secretary shall makie their semi-annual reports at the stated meetings in July
· and January of each year instead of in June and December, as now provided. Such reports would then correspond with the book.s, which are
balanced at the end of the year.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2. That the Committee on Jurisprudence report a Constitutional
amendment providing for the Ritual Committee, its number and tenure
of office. It now exists under the following resolutions, found in Pro.
1910, page 212: "Resolved, That the M. '. w. ·. Grand Master be requested to appoint a Com.mittee on Ritual, which committee shall include the Grand Lecturer. Said committee shall also be custodian of
the esoteric work." The Ritual Committee is a very important one and
should be provided for in the Constitution. It now consists of three
members.

"There are great truths that pitch their shining tents
Outside our walls,_ and, though dimly. seen
In the gray dawn, they will be manifest
When the light widens into perfect day."

3. That an amendment to the Constitution be adopted requiring
a candidate to give satisfactory evidence in open Lodge that he is pro··
ficient and well qualified in the lecture of the third degree before he can
be entitled to the rights and privileges of a Master Mason.
CONCLUSION.

I want to thank V.'. W.'. Brother John Whicher for his everwilling help, his unceasing solicitude in the work, and his advice and information. It aided greatly in many difficult places. Thanks also to
his Assistant Secretary, w. ·. Brother Johnson, for many courtesies.
To V.'. W.' · Brother Baker I am especially indebted. Together we
made many visits throughout the State. His intimate knowledge of the
affairs of the different Lodges, his acquaintance with means of travel
his untiring zeal and ever-present tact, contributed to make our visita~
tions satisfactory and gratifying to all. So many courtesies were received from so many good brothers that I must thank them collectively
for the pleasure and happiness they gave.
The present year of Masonry is near its close. In performing the
duties of his office the Gmnd Master is brbught into constant intercourse and close relations wlth many of his brethren. Together we have
ap.plied tl:e !de.1Is of Masonry to the affair; of life. It ltas been a gratifying experience. I humbly acknowledge that my constant association
with the high ideals of our great fraternity and tire endeavor to iricrea~e .regard for them among our brethren has given me a higher apprec1at1on of the worth and beauty of Masonic character. The ideals of
Masonry are so lofty that, though advancement be continually made towards their attainment, yet that very advancement, by giving a larger
vision and truer outlook, shows they are almost as distant as before.
As we rise nearer to our ideals by surmounting the obstructions in our
path, the height to which we attain reveals to our view and enables us
to behold the unknown heights of attainment that lie farther on. And
so, as we progress in Masonic character with the deeper insight and ·
larger view come new duties and obligations not seen or felt before.
And thus Masonry, sublime and moral in its nature, is a constantly augmenting force in the elevation of man.

27

After the reading of this address we proceed with the work berore
us. In a few days we will return again to the several homes from
which we came. Again, as in the past, we will assemble around the
altars in our respective Lodges, not for selfish ends, not to gra.tify appetite or passion, but that we may "reason of righteousness, and temperance, and the judgment to come." We will meet to renew our strength
and quicken our zeal for the performance of the high duties of life. We
will assist one another to rise neairer to the full height of Masonic
character. As. we came to our Temples in the first place "uninfluenced
by meroenary motives and with a sincere desire to be serviceable to our
fellow creatures," and to learn to subdue our passions, so we wlll hope
a111d strive to continue.
·· · ·
· At our altars ·we:wiiI seek the humility and reverent spirit that is
vouchsded us through prayer. To those we admit to our brotherhood
we will present the lambskin apron as an emblem of innocence and the
badge of a Miason, the greatest distinction that men can bestow, and
which should consecrate him who wears it to the highest purpose of man
on earth, the elevation of his character. In our fraternal intercourse
with our brethren and the world we will strive in our lives to ex•emplify
the manly virtues of temperance, fortitude, prudence a111d justice; and
we will endeavor to obey the injunction given by King David on his
deathbed to his son Solomon, afterwards our first Grand Master, "Be
ye therefor strong and show yourself a man."
In our Lodges new friendships will be formed and old ones cemented by indissoluble ties. The friendships formed with our brother
Masons will, when purified by virtue, ennobled by tempera.nee and justice, quickened by giving help to others, supported by a firm belief in immortality and blessed by the Author. of our being, be among the most
priceless and cherished possessions that life can give. For while "the
friendships of the world are often conspiracies of vice or leagues of
pleasure, ours have for their object severest virtue ; and such friendships can end only with death." We will meet with our brethren on the
level as we always have before. We will know no distinction of rank
or fortune. Only that which is within and part of the character of our
brothers will be regarded. To the brother who has least of worldly
goods or honor, but who liV'es as a just and upright Mason, we will
say :

"True, w~lth thou hast not; 'tis but dust ;
Nor place, uncertain as the wind;
But that thou hast which with thy crust and water
Can despise the best of both, a noble mind."

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.

When this Communication will have ended we shall return with
~1gh and reWso~uhte he~rts to face the duties that awa.it us. The past
is secure.
it radiant and smiling face the future beckons us
ever onward and upward.. Our.paths may lead over rough and rugged
r~ads, perchance beset with trials and difficulties, and dangers; but
with steadfas.t hearts we will press bravely on. Our chosen course may
call for sacrifice before we scale the splendid heights of achievement.
But no personal c~nsequences shall make us hesitate. If darkness lowers and dangers thicken around us we will remAmber the D' ·
'
~
1vme prom· · h
ise m t e Great Light of Masonry, "I have been young, but now am
old, yet have I not seen the righteous man forsaken nor h'
d b
ging bread."
.
,
1s see egEvery sacrifice m~de in a noble cause shall have its sure reward.
Every struggle to uplift humanity shall be crowned with glorious vic~ory. .we can take courage. The genius of Masonry, ever young and
mdom1t~ble through the centuries, cannot know defeat. For,
"So nigh is grandeur to our dust,
So near is God to man
When duty whispers low, 'Thou must,'
The youth replies, 'I can.'
Respectfuly submitted,
ALONZO J. MONROE,
Grand Master.
APPENDIX TO GRAND MASTER'S ADDRESS.
I'ROM STATEMENTS OJ.' GRAND SECRETARIES.

. The. follo~ing named Grand Lodges have nothing in their Constitutions, Regulations or Decisions bearing on the liquor question :
1. Alberta. ·
13. North Carolina.
2. British Columbia
14. New Hampshire.
3. Canada-Ontario.
15. New Jersey.
4. Connecticut.
16. New York.
5. Illinois.
17. Pennsylvania.
6. Louisiana.
18. P. E. Island.
7. Maine.
19. Quebec.
8. Manitoba.
20. Rhode Island.
9. Maryland.
21. Saskatchewan,
10. Massachusetts.
22. South Carolina.
11. Michigan.
23. Vermont.
12. New Brunswick.
24. Virginia.

29

Grand Lodges having Provisions, Regulations and Decisions on the
liquor question, as follows :
·
1. ALABAMA. Decision adopted 1911.
"A profane engaged in the business of selling spirituous, vinous or
malt liquors is not eligible to receive the Blue Lodge degrees."
2. ARIZONA. Regulation.
"That no intoxicating wines or liquors be allowed to be used as a
beverage at any banquet, luncheon or other entertainment held by the
Lodges of this jurisdiction within any Lodge room under the control of
any Lodge of this jurisdiction.''
3. COLORADO. Constitution, Art. XIX, Sec. 4.
,..Intemperance and Liquor Traffic.-It is hereby made the imperative duty of all Lodges to restrain, as far as possible, the Masonic crime .
of intemperance by trial and punishment, as the case may require, and
to exclude from Lodge and ante-room all intoxicating liquors; and for
the faithful performance of these duties they will be held strictly accountable to the Grand Lodge. It shall be unlawful to initiate or affiliate any person engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquors to be used as
a beverage. · All Masons are, therefore, prohibited from engaging in the
liquor traffic."
4. FLORIDA. Regulations.
"263. The liquor traffic is demoralizing in its effects, has been productive of great evil, misery and suffering, and has caused the downfall
of many brother Masons, therefore the particular Lodges in this Grand
Jurisdiction are advised and instructed not to accept the .petitions of
those engaged in it when they apply for admission to our order. 1899.
"264. It shall be unlawful for any Mason after becoming a member
of any Lodge owing allegiance to the Grand Lodge of Florida to enter
upon and engage in the business of liquor selling, and any member who
violates this regulation shall be subject to charges and trial for unmasonic conduct in the particular Lodge in which he holds membership. 1901.
"265. A Mason cannot accept the position of a drummer for a
liquor house, as it would be in conflict with Regulation 264. 1902.
"266. An application for initiation cannot be received from a proprietor of a wholesale grocery house that sells whisky, wine and beer.
1902.
"267. The regulation adopted in 1901, No. 264, is mandatory and
compulsory. A Mason cannot engage in the sale of liquors, and, should
he do so, it is the plain duty of the Lodge to discipline h1m. 1902.

30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

thereof shall be competent evidence and pdma facie proof of guilt, but
eviden~e upon trials under this section shall not be limited to such

. "268. '."- Lodge should not affiliate a Mason who is engaged in the
liquor business. 1902.
.
"269. The regul~tion of. 1901, No. 264, does not affect the standing
of those who were in the hquor business at the time of its enactment.
It is. not retroactive in its effect, but does prevent members of the fraternity of engaging in the liquor business from the dat"e of its enacl.
ment. 1902."
·

record evidence.
"This section shall have no application to members of Lodges who,
at the adoption of this amendment, are engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquors legally while they continue such legal sales.
"The Grand Lodge further declares that hereafter no Lodge shall
knowingly receive or act upon the petition of a profane who may at the
date of said petition be engaged in t'his traffic, exoepting, however,
pharmacists who are legally s'eiling liquor under a permit issued under

5. IDAHO. By-laws of Grand Lodge.
"Section 8. No Lodge in this jurisdiction shall receive an application
for the de~rees of Masonry or for affiliation from any person who is
engage~ directly ?r i~directly, either as proprietor or employe, in .manufacturing or sel~ing intoxicating. liquors as a beverage, and every person who, at the time of the adoption of this section, is a member of any
Lodge i~ this jurisdict.ion and shall thereafter engage, directly or indi~ectly! e1:her .as proprietor or employe, in the manufacture or sale of
mtox1c.ating h~uors as a beverage, shall forfeit all rights and privileges
belonging to him as a Mason, and shall be forthwith expelled from the
Lodge of which he is a member; but this section shall not be construed
to apply to any person who, at the time of its adoption, shall be a memof any Lo.dge in this juris~iction and, at the time of such adoption,
in good standing and engaged in such business."

?er

6. INDIANA. Regulations.
"Every L?d~e is prohib.ited from conferring any of the degrees upon
any?ne who 1s in the habit of becoming intoxicated or makes it his
business to manufacture or sell intoxicating liquors."
"Sec. 129. The use of intoxicating liquors as a beverage or the manufactu~e or sale of i~toxicating liquors to be used as a beverage is a
Masonic offense, and 1f a brother persists therein after being admonished
by his Lodge it is the duty of the Lodge to suspend or expel him."
Decision:
"Can we receive the petition and confer the qegrees on the secretary of a brewing association? His work is all in the office." Ans. "No
His livelihood depends as much upon the manufacture and sale of in~
toxicating liquors as does that of the proprietor."

7. !OWA~ General Laws.
.
"~elling Liquor.-3d. This Grand Lodge expressly declares the
intentional sale of intoxicating liquors in violation of the laws of Iowa
includng sales by all persons engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquor~
to be used as a beverage, whether permitted by the laws of Iowa or
otherwise, a Masonic offense, and the penalty upon conviction thereof
shall be expulsion; and on the trial of a Maso~ accused thereof the rec: .
ord of conviction in the State or Federal courts, or a certified copy

31

,·

,.

the laws of Iowa."
Decisons:
"In case of conviction for selling intoxicating liquors, the law fixes
the punishment at expulsion, and no vote on the question of punishment should be taken. The Master should declare the punishment of
expulsion without a vote.-Proceedings 1893, pages 393-394; (see Sec.
354); Proceedings 1894, page 159.
"It is a violation of Masonic law for a Mason to engage in the
saloon business, even though he operates strictly under the provisions of
the mulct law.-Proceedings 1908, page Hl8.
"A Lodge cannot legally receive a petition for the . degrees from a
man whose duty is that of a bookkeeper for a brewery.-Proceeding-s
1908, page 108.
"It is no more the duty of a Master to order an information filed
again.st a druggist for keeping a liquor nuisance than for any other
Masonic offense of like magnitude and importance.-Proceedings 1908,
page 108."
8. KANSAS. Regulations.
"Intoxicating Liquors.-One who is the agent of a non-resident
brewing company, and as such is in charg·e of the warehouse and sale
department of his employer, and either directly or indirectly superintends and directs the sale of beer and other intoxicating liquors, in violation of the State laws, cannot lawfully receive the degrees of Masonry
in this State.-Coleman, 1897."
"Intoxicating Liquors.-It is a Masonic offense for any Mason to
keep a dram-shop, or what is commonly known as a saloon, or to sell
intoxicating liquors as a beverage; and I believe the Grand Lodge of
Kansas will sustain any of its Lodges should they suspend or expel any
of their members for such offense.-Brown, 1870."
"Intoxicating Liquors.-It is a Masonic offense for any Mason to
keep a dram-shop or to sell intoxicating liquors as a beverage.Adopted 1873."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Intoxicating Liquors.-This Grand Lodge, by its approval of the
decisions of its Grand Masters and the adoption of standing regulations
relating to the sale of intoxicating liquors, gives no uncertain sound on
the subject, and hereby reaffirms its previous declarations and declares
that the sale of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, or the aiding and
abetting the sale of the same, directly or indirectly, by the renting of
buildings, or furnishing means for the conduct of such business, with
or without license, shall be deemed an offense against the body of Masonry, and all persons violating this regulation are ineligible to receive
the degrees of Masonry or to membership in any lodge within this
Grand Jurisdiction.-Adopted 1903. R,ecommended by Dewey, G. M."

"c. A brother whose Lodge has surrendered its charter, and who
holds a dimit from the Grand Secretary, is not eligible for affiliation
while he is -engaged in retailing intoxicating liquors."

9. KENTUCKY. Regulations.
"Section 117.-Manufacture or Sale of Liquors. No Lodge shall
receive the petition of anyone who is engaged in the manufacture or
sale of spirituous, vinous or malt liquors as a beverage. Any Lodge
guilty of violating this provision shall be dealt with."
"Regulation 388.-The retailing of spirituous liquors has been so
abused as to become a great evil in the social life of our country. The
prosecution of such business by a Master Mason is inconsistent with his
profession of moral character, and is calculated to bring the Order into
public disrepute. This Grand Lodge disapproves the conducting ~£ such
business by a Master Mason."
"Regulation 240.-Manufacture or Sale of Liquors. By the words
'anyone who is ,engaged in the manufacture or sale of spirituous, vinous
or malt liquors,' in Section 117 of the Constitution, is meant the person,
firm or stockholder of a corporation, or a salesman, engaged in such
business, and not one who may be employed as gauger, bookkeeper, stenographer, porter, driver of a wagon, watchman or laborer, who does not
actually sell the liquor, by sample or otherwise, or participate in the distributive profits of the business of making or selling such liquors
as a beverage."

12. MONTANA. Standing Resolutions.
"Art. VIII.-Resolved, That it is the determined sense of th1s
Grand Lodge that the indulgence in the vices of intemperance, gambling,
licentiousness, or profanity, or either of them, by Masons in this }urisdiction, should be promptly suppressed by the Lodges ; and it is enjoined as a constant and special duty of all Masons to counsel, caution
and admonish the Craft in this respect, and in case of wilful persistence
the Lodge shall punish those found guilty of such indulgence by the infliction of adequate penalties."
"Art. XXL-Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge
that it is unwise for any Lodge or collection of Lodges to use spirituous,
malt or vinous liquors as a part of the refreshments provided at any
banquet or other Masonic function, and the use of the same is hereby
prohibited.-Adopted October 5, 1904."
"Art. XXIV.-Resolved, That any member of a Lodge in this jurisc
diction who shall engage in the saloon business or act as a barkeeper in
a saloon shall be considered guilty of unmasonic conduct, and it shall be
the duty of the Junior Warden of such Lodge to prefer charges against
any such member; but .it is understood that this. resolution shall not be
retroactive.-A.dopted September 16, 1908."
D~~ru:
.
"It was held that one engaged in the hotel business, with which
there is connected a bar 9ver which liquor-is sold at retail, does not violate the provisions of Article XXIV, Standing Resolutions, if the bar is
conducted simply as an adjunct to the hotel and is not the prime purpose of the business conducted."

32

10. MINNESOTA. Laws and Rulings.
"No person who is engaged in the manufacture or sale of intoxicat.ing liquors, to be used as a beverage, is eligible to receive the degrees of
Masonry or for membership in a Masonic Lodge."
Rulings :
"a. One who has a vote or votes in the direction ~nd management
of the affairs and business of a brewing company is ineligible.
"b. One engaged in thie clerical part of the business and having
nothing whatever to do with the manufacture and sale of the produce
of such brewing company, and ~ithout a vote in tqe management of the
affairs of the corporation, is not debarred.

11. MISSOURI. Constitution.
"Sec. 182. No Lodge shall receive a petition for the degrees or for
affiliation from any person who is engaged in the manufacture or sale
of intoxicating liquors as a beverage, either as distiller, brewer, brewery
11rcnt, wholesale liquor dealer or salesman for such dealer, saloon keeper
•>r bartender.
"Any Mason who may hereafter begin such business shall be expelled."

13. NEBRASKA. By-laws of Grand Lodge.
"Chapter XIV, Sec. 106.-Grounds of Disqualification. A Lodge
cannot initiate anyone who is engaged in the manufacture of intoxicating liquors, including wine and beer, nor one who is engaged in the
3

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sale of such intoxicating liquors as a beverage, nor one who cannot read
and write, nor one having physical imperfections which impair his ability to support himself and family, or by reason of which he is unable to
conform to all of our peculiar rites and ceremonies. But a P.hysical
disability occurring after initiation will not prevent advancement."
"Chapter XIV, Sec. 148, c and d:
·~c. Intoxication and intetnpetance.

"d. Engaging in thie marlufacture of intoxicatlrtg liquors, including
. wine and beer, or the sale of such liquors as a beverage."
"Chapter XXX, Sec. 214.-Liability. The Master of a Lodge is
liable to discipline for neglect or refusal to take cognizance of the offense of a member of his Lodge engaging in the . liquor traffic. It is
the duty of any member to report such refusal or neglect to the Grand
Master."
14. NORTH DAKOTA. Standing Resolution.
"That no person who is engaged in the business of keeping a saloon,
or is engaged in the business of retailing intoxicating liquors to be used
as a bev·erage, shall be initiated into any particular Lodge in this jurisdiction; nor shall any brother Mason who is engaged in such business be
received in any Lodge as a member by a.ffiliation."
"In this State, where we have constitutional prohibition of the manufacture and sale of liquor as a beverage, we have sometimes had difficulty in the matter of the illegal sale of liquor through the medium of
drug stores, so-called, and we have a ruling that where a druggist so
far forgets himself as to dispose of liquors in quantities as a beverage
he becomes ineligible for the degrees. The Grand Lodge has likewise sustained the suspension of members who, after receiving their
degrees, have engaged in the saloon business in other States. Consequently the attitude of this Grand Lodge is very clear and strict."
15. NOVA SCOTIA. Constitution:
"Inasmuch as great care should be taken in the admission of candidates, Grand Lodge recommends that no subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction shall, in future, knowingly entertain any application for the degrees or for affiliation of any person or persons engaged· in the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors."
Standing Resolution :
"That the Grand Lodge recommends that at all entertainments of
Grand Lodge and subordinate Lodges the use of spirituous liquors and
wines be strictly prohibited.-Grand Lodge Proceedings 1896, page 67."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35

16. OHIO. Code of Laws and Decisions.
"Code Sec. 58.-To engage in tlte selling of intoxicating liquors for
beverage purposes is a Masonic offense and should subject any brother
so offending to charges and expulsion; it should also be a disqualification for initiation ot affiliation in a Masonic Lodge."
"Note 2.-A Lodge, owning its building, will not be permitted to
~ease. the same, or any part thereof, to be used for dealing in intoxicating liquors to be drank on the premises, while it might be right and
proper to make a lease where liquors are to be sold for medicinal purposes otily, on the prescription of some reputable physician."
"Note 3.-'-The provisions of Sec. 58 of the Code apply not only to a
member of a Lodge, but also to any brother who is dimitted and unaffiliated and is engaged in the ·traffic in intoxicating liquors to be
drank where sold."
'
"Note 4.-The proprietor of a hotel, in connection with which he
owns and controls a bar in which liquors are kept and sold, as weH as
any employe engaged in said traffic, comes within the meanit1g of Code
Sec. 58. If, however, he is merely the ptoprietor of th'e hotel and leases
to another person the bar room, the bar and liquors being owned arid
controlled by such other party, such hotel Proprietor would not be violating the provisions of the Code."
17. O;KLAHOMA. Constitution and By-laws.
"Sec. 32.-Intoxicating Liquots. No intoxicating liquors shall be introduced within a: Lodge room, nor in any room connected therewith
'
under penalty of a forfeiture of the charter."

~'Sec. 33.-Gambling. Any kind of gambling, profane swearing or
the mtemp~rate use of intoxicating liquors or the use or printing of
any Masonic emblem for advertising purposes, or a parody on Masonic
work for any purposes, is hereby declared to be a Masonic offense and
a bar to initi~tion, passing, raising and affiliation in subordinate i,;,dge,
and ~he practice thereo.f shall subject offenders who are Masons either to
repnmanQ. suspension or expulsion." ·
. . "Sec.. 34.-:Intemperanoe. Whenever any Mason shall appear in pub-

h~ 1? an intoxicate~ condition, the Master of th'e Lodge in whose jurisd1ct1on ~he offense 1s committed shall, at the next stated meeting, order·
the J umor W atden to prefer charges against the offender· and should

a?~ Mason appear in a: Masonic hall, during labor, in an int~xicated cond1t1on, the ~aster shall order immediate charges preferred, and if any

Master or his Lodge refuse to enforce the for~going reQuiremeht the
Grand Master shall arrest the charter of such Lodge, or suspend the
Master thereof, and report the facts to the Grand Lodge at its next
Communication."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Sec; 35.-Sale of Liquors. The sale of either malt, vinous or spirituous liquors, or any intoxicating liquors, a.t wholesale or retail, is
hereby declared a Masonic offense and shall subject the offender who
is a Mason to suspension or expulsion, and shall be a bar to initiation,
passing, raising and affiliation in a subordinate Lodge. It ·shall be the
duty of the Master to order charges preferred against all offenders in
Iris jurisdiction who shall violate this section, and a trial shall be had
as in other cases."
"Sec. 36.-Penalty. If any Lodge shall fail to enforce the provisions
of Section 35, thie Grand Master shall arrest the charter of such Lodge
and report his actions to the Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communication."

intoxicating liquors, except for medicinal or mechanical purposes, shall
be considered ineHgible for initiation or affiliation in any Lodge in
this Grand Jurisdiction.

36

"Any member of any Lodge in this jurisdiction who shall hereafter engage in the sale of intoxicating liquors, except for medicinal or
mechanical purposes, shall be considered guilty of unmasonic conduct,
and it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of such Lodge to prefer
charges against any such. member, and upon trial and conviction thereof
the Lodge shall -expel such member; but it is understood that this resolution shall not be retroactive.-Adopted November 15, 1906. (Revised
Laws of Masonry, M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of West Virginia, edition of
1912, pages 81-82.)"
Decisions:

18. OREGON. Constitution.
"Sec. 180.-Not be proprietor of or vendor at a place where malt
or spirituous liquors a:re sold as a bever:age."
"Sec. 266.-Any Mason who shall kieep what is commonly known
as a liquor saloon, or attend to the bar of a liquor saloon, shall be
deemed guilty of a Masonic offense, and upon conviction thereof by
the tribunal having jurisdiction in the case shall be indefinitely suspended."

"Liquor Selling.-217.- A brother initiated and passed before the
adoption of the resolution of November 15, 1906, in relation to thie sale
of intoxicating liquors, is ineligible to be raised to the degree of Master
Mason while he is so engaged in the sale of intoxicating liquors, except
it be for medicinal or mechanical purposes.-Strickler, 1907."
"218. A profane engaged in the sale of beer only is ineligible for
initiation in any Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction.-Clark, 1910."
"219. A bookkeeper for a wholesale liquor house, who has nothing
to do with the sale of liquor, and in no manner connected with the sales
department, can present his petition for initiation.-Stokes, 1911."

19. SOUTH DAKOTA. Grand Lodge By-laws.
"Sec. 64.-No perwn who. is engaged in the business of keeping a
saloon or who is engaged in the business of manufacturing, wholesaling
or retailing intoxicating liquor to be used as a beverage shall be initiated into any Lodge, nor shall any brother who is engaged in such
business be received into any Lodge as a member by affiliation."
20. UTAH. Grand Lodge By-laws.
"Part II, Art. XV, Sec. 1.-All petitions for 'the degrees or for membership by affiliation 'or for advancement shall be made in writing and
signed ·by the applicant with his own hand, with his given name or
names in full ; shall state his place of nativity and present residence, age
and occupation, and shall be accompanied by the fees prescribed by the
By-laws. Every petition shall be recommended in writing by two membets of the Lodge, and be presented at a regular meeting, and ente~ed
in substance upon the records; provided, that no Lodge shall receive
a petition ·of any applicant who is at the time a proprietor of or a
vendor at an establishment where malt · or spirituous liquors are sold
as a beverage."
21. WEST VIRGINIA. Resolution.
"17.-Resolved, That from and after the adoption of · this resolution those persons who in th:e future shall be engaged in the sale of

37

22. WISCONSIN. ·constitution.
"Art. XXVI, Sec. 6.-Petitions Prohibited. No Lodge in this
jurisdiction shall receive or act upon a petrtion from a person engaged
in keeping a saloon or selling intoxicating liquors to be used as a beverage, and every Lodge is charged to strictly exclude from the Lodge
and ante-room all intoxicating liquors."
23. WYOMING.

"

"By-laws, Sec. 89.-It shall be and is hereby made the imperative
duty of Lodges in this jurisdiction to restrain, as far as possible, the
intemperate us.e of intoxicating liquors or beverages of every kind and.
character, and for the faithful .performance of this duty each Lodge
shall be held accountable to the Grand Lodge."
24. GEORGIA. (Constitution of Georgia, delayed by mail.)
25. WASHINGTON
"424. Sec. 2.-Liquor dealers ineligible. Any person engaged in
the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors, for other than medicinal or sacramental purposes, shall not be eligible to the degrees of
Freemasonry in this Jurisdiction."

PROCEEDINGS OF TH l!l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"426. Petitions from.-No Lodge in this Jurisdiction shall receive
the petition for the degrees of Masonry from any person engaged in
the manufacture or sale of intoxicating liquors as a beverage.-Resolution, adopted 1888; VII, 295, 304."
"427. Hotel Keeper.-The resolution of 1888 (No. 426) prohibits
a Lodge from receiving the petition of a hotel keeper who has, in connection with his hotel, a bar where intoxicants are sold.-Decision,
G. M. Porter; held 1sound' 18B9; VIII, 20, 37."
"429. H<itel Manager.-The manager of a hotel, in which he has
a bar ·where liquors are sold, can not receive the degrees.-Decision,
G. M. Amos ; concurred in, 1892; IX, 33,55, 69."
"429a. Same.-The manager of a hotel in which there is a bar is
eligible for the degrees when his duties do not require ·him to purchase
or handle the liquors, and when his only connection with the same is
to hire the help and have general supervision of the accounts and
finances, paying the bar-tenders their wages the same as other employees.-Decision, G. M. Frater; approved, 1898; XII, 12, 44."
"429b. Foreman and Engineer.-A for eman and engineer in a
brewery, having charge of the manufacture of intoxicating liquors and
the compounding of malt extracts, is not eligible to the degrees.-Decision, G. M. Frater; approved, 1898; XII, 12, 44."
"430. Commercial Traveler.-A traveling salesman for a wholesale
liquor house is not eligible to petition for the degrees.-Decision, G. M.
Plummer; concurred in, 1893; IX, 355, 382, 383."
"431. Bookkeeper Eligible.-A. bookkeeper for a wholesale liquor
house is eligible for tlie degrees, if his <luties are coiifined to the l>ooks
and accouqts.-Pecisiop, G. M. Hare; approve<!, 1894; X, 16, 53, 56."
"43?a. Sawe.-I.., the sister of M., is administratri~ of the estate
of her·deceased husband, a part of which is a saloon. M., assisting his
sister; occasionally sells liquor not for profit, or individual gain, but
out of pure benevolence : Is M. eligible to petition to receive the degrees of Masonry? He is not.-Decision, G. M. Chadwick; approved,
1901 ; XIII, 197, 231."
"433. Affiliation.-N o Mason shall be permitted to affiliate with
any Lodge in this Jurisdiction who is engaged directly or as employee
in the manufacture or 'sale of intoxicating liquors as a beverage.Decision, G. M. Waggoner; approved, 1907; XVI, 227, 305."
"669a. Masonic Offense.-Hereafter it sh;iU be a Masonic offense,
with the penalty of expulsion, for a Mason in this Jurisdiction to enter
into the business of selling intoxicating liquors as a beverage.-Resolution adopted 1909; XVII, Part II, 56, 81."

26. NEW . MEXICO. Resolution.
"Hereafter any person who is engaged in the saloon business shall
be considered ineligible to receive the degrees of Masonry. within this
Grand Jurisdiction."

B8

39

Decision:
"Neither can a Lodge rent, consecrate, dedicate and occupy, unless
temporarily by permission of the Grand Master, a room in any buil<ling in which liquor is retailed and served to the general public."

On motion, the Deputy Gr.and Master named the fol- ·
lowing Committee on Distributiop of the various s.pbjects
contained in the address:
II
,I

I

On Grand Master's Address :
Ballister, John M. Eshelman.

Francis V. K eesling, Fred W . Le

The Grand Master then appointed the following Committees:
On Charters: J . Claude Perry, Henry Levy, Lemuel L. Test,
Jam es E . Sanderson, Roderick G. Guyett.
On By-Laws: Henry Ascroft, Louis N. Buttner, George F. Ro<lden, James C. Pottle, George G. Gillespie.

The Grand Master also filled vacancies in Committees
by the following appointments, by reason of absence of
members:
••
p

On Jurispru<lence: George M. P erine.
On Finance : William A. Sherman.
On Pay of Members: Henry H. Meday.

Past Grand Master Edward H. Hart, Chairman of the
Committee on Correspondence, sent his regrets to Grand
Lodge, stating that it would be impossible for him to be
present at this Communication, and asked leave to have his
report printed in the Proceedings; which request was
granted .
.1

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Secretary read his annual report, as follows :
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Herewith my annual report:
In accordance with a resolution of Grand Lodge, adopted in October, 1911, and following the orders of the Special Committee appointed for the purpose, I have begun the work of indexing the names
of all members of Lodges in the jurisdiction,. based on the membership
a1s reported July 31, 1912. In this work the office of the Grand Secretary has been materially assisted by the cordial co-operation of Secretaries of Lodges, and to them my thanks are hereby extended. The·
report of the Special Committee will .explain in sufficient detail the
plan and scope of the work.
One thousand copies, paper bound, of the Annotalted Constitution
adopted at the last Annual Communication, were printed and distributed
pursuant to your resolution, to-wit: One copy to each Lodge, Grand
Officer and Inspector. I also caused to be printed and bourid in cloth,
fifteen hundred copies of said Annotated Constitution, the book being
called "Constitution and Ceremonies," the publication including the Uniform Code of By-Laws, the Installation Ceremony for Lodges, the
Funeral Service as revised by Past Grand Master Well er pursuant to
your order, the "Record Book of Example Lodge,'' the Ceremony for
Laying Corner Stones, the Ceremony for Constituting Masonic Lodges,
the Ceremony for Dedicating Halls, Procedure for Consolidation of
Lodges, the Monitoria·I Work, and the Ancient Laws of Masonry. The
labor of compiling all tMs was no small task, but the book has proved
to be a success, and although rohe cost was considerable-$1,694.50--the
copies sold up oo July 31 brought revenue to the amount of $853, with
576 bound books in stock and a goodly lot of paper-covered Constitutions.
Five hundred copies of the valuable "List of Regular Lodges" were
purchased, and one copy thereof mailed to each Lodge in the jurisdic. tion. Very few extra copies we!'le sold, which is disappointing. It is
quite important that the larger Lodges should have an extra copy, so
that one could remain with the Tyler and the other on the Secreta•ry's
desk.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

41

of Lodges, and the adoption of some different plan to prevent a recurrence of some of the difficulties occa•sioned by the annexation of territory to cities and the changing methods of travel. This was referred
to ttihe Committee on Juriisprudence with instructions to devise and report such changes in our law as are deemed advisable. (Proceedings
1911, pages 15, 89.)
Attention is also called to the resolution of Brother W interer, being an amendment to the Constitution, to be known as Section 20, Article III, Part III (Section 129a, Annotated Constitution), as follows:
"No Lodge shall receive an application for the degrees of Masonry,
or for affiHation, from any orte who is engaged, either as principa·l,
agent or employee, in the saloon bu'Siness (except in connection with,
and as part of, the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant) , or
who is a. barkeeper; and any Mason who may hereafter enter upon and
engage in the saloon business, either as owner, agent, or employee, except in connection with and as part of the operation of a bona fide hotel
or restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper, shall be deemed guilty
of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due trial and conviction of said
offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges, including membership
in any Lodge.''
The a·bove is Unfinished Business, and requires a two-thirds vote to
carry.
Since tthe last Annual Communication, eleven new Lodges have been
formed, a full list of which has been reported in the Address of the
Grand Master. The petitions for the dispensations for those Lodges,
with the certificates of withdrawal of t he several petitioners from the
Lodges whereof they had la'51!1 been members, and the certificates of
qualifications of the Masters and Wardens named, were all correctly
prepared and presented, and they are herewith submitted, together with
the returned dispensations and boo~ of record and the petitions of the
· new Lodges to be perpetuated by charter.

I desire to renew the suggestion made laslb year that life members
be required to procure annual certificates or cards of membership-a
necessity that is obvious to Secretaries and Boo·rds of Relief.

At the close of the last Annual Communication there were 341
chartered Lodges on the roll of Grand Lodge. Since then, as indicated
above, eleven new Lodgies have been formed, making the total number
now on the roll 352. The membership last year was 45,836. It is now
4&,315, a gain of 2,479. There were initiated 3,266, passed 3,156, raised
3,063, affiliated 1,023, restored 91, withdrawn 923, suspended for nonpayment of dues 474, suspended and .expelled for unmasonic conduct
25, died 600.

Conformable to law, I call attention to the following Unfinished
Business of last year : The question of the geographical jurisdiction

The trariscripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of appeal, which have been received at this office since the last annual com-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

munication-all which have been placed with the Chairman of the
Committee on Grievances-are as follows : From

Hermann Lodge No. 127, record No. 123, expelled DecembeT 4,
1911.
Transcripts of similar recordis", accompanied by notices of appeal,
have been received and trammitted to .the Chairman of the Committee
on Grievances from :
CrocJi;ett· Lodge No. 139, record No. 115, suspendecl April 3, 1912.
(Appeal by accuser,)

Liberty Lodge No. 299, record No. 103, suspended October 7, 1911;
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, record No. 100, expellecl October 2,
1911;
.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61, record No. 102, expelled October 6, 1911;
Yount Lodge No. 12, record No. 104, expelled October 31, 1911;
Friendship Lodge No. 210, record No. 101, expellecl October 5, 191l;
Excelsior Loclge No. 166, record Np. 108, sµspended January 3,
1912;
Honolulu Lodge No. 409, record No. 105, :suspepded November
13, 1911;
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123, record No. 106, expelled December 7,
1911;
Eel River Lodge No. 147, r.ecord No. 107, expelled December 30,
1911;
Californiai Lodge No. 1, record No. 112, expelled March 7, 1912;
Yosemite Lodg~ No. 133, record No. 88, retried by La Grange
Lodge No. 99 and expelled February 6, 1912;
Crockett Lodge No. 139, record No. 109, expelled January 3, 1912;
Oceanic Lodge "No. 371, record No. 89, retried by Santa Cruz Lodge
No. 38 and e:Jl:pell~d Fel>ruary 10, 1912;
Lodi Lodge No. 256, record No. 98 (re~rial), expelled February
29, 1912;
•.
Lodi Lodge No. 256, record No. 111, expelled February 29, 1912;
Burbank Lodge No. 406, record No. 110, suspended February l,
1912;
San Francisco Lodge No. 360, rei;Qrd No. 113, tried by Missioo
Lodge No. 169, and suspend'ed March 6, 1912;
Martinez Lodge No. 41, record No. 119, tried by Eureka Lodge No.
16 and expelled February 26, 1912;
Golden State Lodge No. 358, record No. 116, expelled April 4, 1912;
Pajaro Lodge No. llO, record No. 117, tried by San Jose Lodge No.
10 and suspended April 1, 1912;
South Gate Lodge No. 320, r~corq No. 120, expelled April 5, 19i2;
Sierra Madre Lodge No. 400, record No. 121, suspended May 7,
1912;
Naval Lodge No. 87, record No. 122, expe!Jed March 21 1 1912;

43

Golden Gate Lodge No. 30, record No. 114, expelled April 2, 1912.
(Motion to soe:t aside, by accused.)
North East Lodge No. 266, record No. 118, tried by Surprise Valley Lodge and expelled April 20, 1912. (·Appeal by accused.)
Also, a peti1tfon for restoration from ai former member of Presidio
Lodge No. 354, r>ecord No. 86~, expelled..June 2, 1910;
A petition for restoration from a former member of Oriental Lodge
No. 144, record No. 63, expelled December 1, 1908;
A petition for restoration from a former member of Sacramento
Lodge No. 40, record No. 81~, expelled August 5, 1910.
For reasons which must be' obvious to all, the names of the accused
are not published. All papers aire numbered and an indexed register
kept in the office of the Grand Secretary contains the number, name and
history of each case. After the Grand Lodge has passed on the records, they are filed by numbers.
By order of the Grand Master, ai duplicate cnarter was on the 24th
of June, 1912, iss·u ed to Clovis Lodge No. 417, the original charter
having been destroyed by fire June 15.
Pursuant to resolution regularly adopted, Eel Rjver Lodge No. 147
was on the 15th day of January, 1912, granted permission by the Grand
Master to remove its place of meeting from Rohnerville to Fortuna.
An incident worthy of special mention occurred in the sending to
this office by Rieading Lodge No. 254 the sum of $64, this amount having been expended by the San Francisco Board of Relief for the benefit
of a member of Reading Lodge, the Grand Lodge having previously reimbursed the Board of Relief.
At the time of the great and devastating floods in the MiSISissjppi
Valley in April, when it was r>eported in the public prints tha;t many
people were suffering for food apq shelter, by order of the Grand Master I wjred po the Grand Masters of Arkansas and Louisiana,, extending the symp~thy of the Grand Master and brethren of California to
the flood 's ufferers and offering money if needed. To these telegrams
the following answers were returned :

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"LrTTLt RocK, April 22, 1912.
"Thanks for sympathy and generous offer. Will confer with authoriti.es and draw if needed. Flood situation is bad, but we have it well in
hand.
FAY HtMPSTtAD, Grand Secretary."

Ntw 0RLtANS, April 23, 1912.
"The Grand Master of Louisiana acknowledges reoeipt of wire and
thanks the Grand Master and brethren of California for expressions of
sympathy and tender of .a.ssi9t'ance. Floods have caused distress, but
newspaper reports exaggerate situation .as to Louisiana. We believe
we have the situation in hand. We are grateful to be able .to say tha.t
we believe no difficulty will be experienced in caring for all cases, but
should the distress grow so acute as 1to warrant doing so we shall not
hesitate to avail ourselves of your characteristic fraternal offer.
0

"krcHARD LAMBtRT, Grand Secretary."
The condition of the Special Emergency Relief Fund in my custody is as follows :
On hand at last report ..... . . . ... ............... . ... $1,422.57
December 31, 1911, interest . . ... . . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28.43
June 30, 1912, interest..... .. .. . . . . . ........ . . . . .....
29.CJ2
Now on hand ... .... . ..... . ........ . ..... . ...... $1,480.02
Laist year it was my pleasure to report that "never in the history of
Grand Lodge have .annual reports from Secretaries been prepared with
greater care, and mailed to this office more promptly, than this year."
It is with special pride in the fidelity and industry of our Secretaries that
I now report ev•en better results. All Lodges except three reported practically on time, and with minor corrections in a few instances they were
all oo,rrect.
By order of the Grand Master, special dispensations for various
purposes have been issued from this office, as follows :
To re-ballot: Santa Cruz No. 38, Sacramento No. 40 (2), Pajaro
No. 110, Hermann No. 127, Pacific No. 136 (2) , San Benito No. 211,
South West No. 281, West Gate No. 335 (2), Sequoia No. 349, Buena
Park No. 357, Highland Park No. 382, West Lake No. 392, Balder
No. 393, Bodie N Q. 252.
.
To hold election for officers a.t a time other than that fixed by law:
Gravel Range No. 59, Natoma No. 64, Yolo No. 81, Eden No. 113, Drytown No. 174, Inyo No. 221, Hill's Ferry No. 236, Bodie No. 252, Olive
Branch No. 269, Silver Gate No. 296, San Francisco No. 360, Ocean
Park No. 369, Coalinga No. 387, Parnassus No. 388.

,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

To ballot without reference to com~ittee: King David's No. 20'), .
1'o receive petition from person in U. S. Navy: California No. 1,
Benicia No. 5.
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life membership in ·four lodges: Oroville No. 103, Santa Ana No. 241, San
Jacinto No. 338 and Yerba Buena No. 403.
Of the proposeci amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges which
have been received, the approval of the Grand Master in thirty-nine
caises has been fite<l in this office. Of these, three from Lodges 342, 382
and 4(X) proposed to abolish affiliation fee; six from Lodges 99, 110,
225, 346, 365 and 390 proposed to increase dues; four from Lodges 78,
79, 185 and 230 proposed to reduce dues; eighteen from Lodges 14,
19, 76, 185, 206, 252, 255, 267, 281, 285, 328, 349, 355, 382, 390, 395, 422 and
San Dimas, U. D., proposed to change time of stated meetings; eight
from Lodges 57, 60, 146, 232, 261, 306, 370 and 387 proposed to increase
fees for degrees. All which proposed amendments will be placed in the
hands of •the Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws of Lodges and
submitted to Grand Lodge for final action. The books of by-laws of
Lodges under dispensation will also be placed in the hands of the same
committee.
Some of the older Lodges appear to have By-Laws not authorized
by Grand Lodge, and their attention is directed to the Uniform Code
as found at page 227 of the "Constitution and Ceremonies." These
should be copied in the book of By-Laws of each Lodge, the blanks,
of course, to be filled pursuant to the will of the Lodge and approval
of the Grand Master.
A number of interesting and valuable gifts have been received by
me for the Grand Lodge, notably the following:
Solid silver medal struck in commemoration of the one hundredth
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge. of Louisiana, which event
was celebrated with much pomp on the afternoon of February 5, 1912;
.T he Past Master's jewiel presented to the late Past Grand Master
W. Frank Pierce by Oakland Lodge No. 188, December 30, 1893. It
was presented by his daughters and is peculiarly valuable for the reason
that it is the first Masonic tokien ever presented to Brother Pierce;
Fae-simile of the original warrant granted July 15, 1761, by the
Grand Lodge of England, according to old Constitutions, for a Provincial Grand Lodge in Pennsylvania. Presented by Julius F. Sachse,
Librarian of .the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, in return for a photographic copy of the old certifica·te of Brother Simmins of Lodge No. 2
of Pennsylvania, dated 1765, the original of which is now in this office,
it being the oldest known Masonic Grand Lodge certificate;

47

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fae-simile of Masonic certificate of Commodore John Drake Sloat,
i~st\ed under date of October 16,.1805, by St. Andrew's Lodge No. 3,
New York Presented by· Brother Edwin A. Sherman.

28. A. ]. Monroe, contingent expenses of Grand Master .. .. . . 1,200.00
29. George P. Adll,ms, salary Grand Tyler . .. . .......... . ... • 125.00
60.00
30. Samuel D. Mayer, sala·ry Grand Organi'st. .... .. . ..... . .
31. Masonic Board of Relief, San Frahtisco : .. • .. ..·... ... . . · 2,903.65
32. Masonic Board of Relief, Los Angeles:.'. ... : ... . . ... . . : : 3,000.00
33. Masonic Board of Relief, San Diego . . . .... . .... .. ... . . . . · '600.00
34. Masonic Board of ReHd, Sacramento . . . . ......... : .. . . . 500.00
JS. Ma.sonic Board of Relief, San Jose ... . ................ .' 200.00
154.25
36. R. F. Chilcott, clericat work account Constitution ....... .
2.50
37. Atlas T. & A. Service Co., account cornerstone laying .. .•
38. Samuel D. Mayer, ser.Vices .c\loir, cornerstone laying, $20;
45.00
memorial service, $25.. .... . ... .... . .. .. . .... .... . . .
54.00
39. H. M. Ow.ens, appropriation by . G.rand Lodge ..... .. .. .• . .
156.00
40. George W. Bennett,_ band at cornerstone laying . ...... . . .
41. William S. Wells, appropriations to Masonic Homes ..... . 7,500.00
42. Golden Gate Commandery Hall, rent Annua,t Communica150.00
tion ..... . ......... . , . ..... .. . .. . .. . . ............ .
200.00
43. T . J. Baker, salary October, 1911. ....... . .. . ........... .
150.00
~. H. S. Johnson, salary October, 1911 ............. ...... . '.
300.00
45. John Whicher, salary October, 1911. .... .. ... ..... .. . .. . .
118.00
46. E. ]. Tobin & Co.1 rent Nov1ember, 1911. .......... .... . . .
35.00
47. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ...... . . . ..... .
48. John Whicher, ta.xes on furniture, 69c; postage stamps,
$20; two telegrams to Weller, $1 ; drayage on regalia,
25c; expressage on aprons from Oakland, 25c ; dray.
age on articles to and from hal.1, $3.50; telegram to
26.49
Grand Master, 40c ; telegram to Inglewood, 40c ..... .
12.00
49. F. C. Hensley, Assistant Grand Tyler . .. . .... .... .. . : ..
50. A. L. Auradou, engrossing five Charters ... ...... ...... .
5.00
51. G. Geary1 account annotated C.onstitution. , .. . .... . . . .. . .
20.00
8.(i()
52. Pacific T. & ·T . Co., rent October, 1911. , , ....... . .. . ... .
20.00
53. B. Pasquale Co., 100 white aprons .... ................ ..
54. K. Marron, nine days' services as stenographer ...... , . . .
27.00
55. McNutt, Kahn & Co., sundries account annotated Consti23.30
tution, $21.55; 70 she,c;,ts purple carbon, $1.75 . . ... .. . .
56. The M. A. Frank Co., premium on bonds Grand Secretary
and Grand T rea·surcr ...... .. ...... .... . . .... . , ... . .
62.50
57. Star Towe-I Supply Oo., rent August to November, 1911 ..
2.25
58. E. ]. Mott, taking notes at cornerstone laying., ........ .
9.00
59. D. B. Crane, quarte~te at degree conferred by Grand
Master .... .........• .. , . ... , . .... ....... •.... . . ..
20.00
60. H. F. Wright, tyling at exemplification of degrees Grand
~dge t. : ..... ..·........ . ... ... ,. : .•.. . .. ... .. ....
9.00

DISBURSEMENTS.
During the year I ha.ve drawn agaihst the Grand Treasurer as
follows:
Warrant No. ·
Amount
1. John Whicher, salary August, 1911 .. ... , ... , .. ..... , .. . $250.00
2. T. J. Baker, salary August, 1911. ... . .. . , ... . . . . . . . ... . .
200.00
3. H . S. Johnson, salary August, 1911. ... ... .... . . . ... ... . .
150.00
4. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman . .... . . . . .
25.00
5. William P. Filntet, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ...... .... . .. . .
35.00
6. E. J . Tobin & Co., rent September, 1911. ..... . ; ... ... . .
118.00
7. John Whicher, packing 24 cases books, $20.00; expressage
from Napa, 4Sc . .... .... . .. . . . . . . .. .. . .. . ... : .... . .
20.45
8. Pacific T. & 1'. Co.; rent August, 1911 ....... .. ... . . .. . .
8.45
9. H. S. Crock.M Co., 12 document files .... .. . .. . . . . ... .. .
10.80
10. Star Towel Suppiy Co., rent May 1st to August 1st . . . .. .
2.50
11. Bancroft-Whitney Co., 24 boxes (Pierce Library) . . . . . .. .
25.20
12. T. J . Baker, expenses July 30th to August 25th, 1911 . , . .. .
144.10
13. E. H. Hart, Chairman Committee on Correspondence . .. .
200.00
14. John Whicher, salary September, 1911 . .. .. ... .. .... .. . .
250.00
15. T. ]. Baker, salary September, 1911. .. . • .... , . . ... . ... . .
200.00
16. H. S. J ohnson, salary September, 1911. ... . . ....... .. .. .
150.00
17. E. ]. Tobin Co, rent October, 1911. .. .. . . .... . . . ...... . .
118.00
18. Geo. R. Ai:mstroi:,g, 500 receipt holders, $95 ; 16,CXX> receipts, $59.20; printing seals, $9; postage, $4.71; one·
line rubbe,- stamp, 30c .. ... . ..... . ........ .. , .. . ... .
168.21
19. Hirschfelder & Meaney, one telescope (Grand Lodge Re- ·
galia) .. ... . .... . ....... .... . . .. ... • . .. . . . . • . .....
3.00
20. The Call, July to October, 1911. ... ....... .. .. .... ..... ,
2.25
21. Pacific T. & T . Co., rent ·s eptembor, 1911. ... ....... .. . . .
8.15
22. T. ]. Baker, expenses August 5 to September 24, 1911
161.25
23. Shannon-Conmy, 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75 ; 500 small
2c envelopes, $12.50; 400 lists of !'\ejections, $15; 1,500
small 2c envelopes, $37.50 . ............... .... .. . . . .
77.75
24. Stockholm & Allyn, shelving in ·storeroom .. ...... . .. . . . .
42.51
25. H . S. Crocker Co., city directory . .. . ... .. • . . ... .. ... . . .
6.00
26. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. · W. Taylor ... . .. ... . . . . .
35.00
27. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman 1... . . ... .
25.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LvDGE OF CALIFORNIA

61. T. ]. Baker, expenses October 1 to 27, $12.65; advertising
13.85
school of instruction, $1.20 ......................... .
300.00
62. John Whicher, salary November, 1911 ........... . ...... .
:nl.00
63. T. J. Baker, salary November, 1911. .... . .. . .... . .. .... .
150.00
64. H. S. Johnson, salary November, 1911 .................. .
65. E. J. Tobin & Co, rent December, 1911 . ......... . ....... . 118.00
35.00
66. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ............ • .
67. E. C. Hughes Co., 1,000 letter heads, $9; 500 lette·r heads
and altering plate, $9; expressage, 55c; 100 circulars
(key to examina.tion quetstions), $4.50; 500 stamped
43.55
envelopes, $12.50; 500 examination blanks, $7 ....... .
68. Underwood Typewriter Co., 2 notebooks, 20c; 1 box paper,
$1.10; 6 sheets purple carbon, 25c; rent two machines,
5.30
$3.75 .... . .................. . ...... . ..... . ..... . .. .
1.25
69. Babjohn & Morcum, two frames ....................... .
70. Shannon-Conmy, 2,000 address labels, $4; 500 large 2c
envelopes, $12:75; 500 circufa..rs, $5.25; 400 lists of rejections, $12; 2,000 odes, $4.50; 1,500 blanks, delegates
present, $5.25; . 500 circulars, $12; 5,000 addresses
Grand Master and Grand Orator, $58; 500 small 2c
126.25
envelopes, $12.50 ... ..... : .. .. ....... .. ........... .
4.00
71. Bank of Italy, vault space to November 1, 1912 . ........ .
20.00
72. Podesta & BaJdocchi, floral piece (G. Johnson) ......... .
1.35
73. Union .Merchants' Ice Co., 135 lbs. ice ................. .
8.60
74. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent November, 1911 ....... . ..... . . .
75. William R. Phillips, binding 31 volumes Proceedings
35.65
(Grand Master) ............................ .... . .
229.18
76. John R. Pope, one year's subscription to January 1, 1913 ..
1.40
77. McNutt, Kahn & Co., one H. H. cover ....... , ......... .
5.00
78. N. B. Andrews, typing key to annotated Constitution ... .
87.20
· 79. T.]. Baker, expenses October 'Z1 to November 23, 1911 ..
2.40
80. T. ]. Baker, adver.tilsing school of instruction . . . ... ... .. .
81. John Whicher, express-age and postage stamps account
18.72
shipping Grand Master's address and Grand Oration ..
300.00
82. John Whicher, salary December, 1911 .... ... ... . ... ... . .
200.00
83. T. J . Baker, salary December, 1911 ..... . ........... .. .. .
150.00
84. H . S. Johnson, salary December, 1911 .................. .
35.00
85. William P. Filme·r, for Mrs. C. W . Taylor .... .. . .. . . .. .
118.00
86. E. J. ·Tobin & Co., rent January, 1912 ........ ... ... . ... .
104.46
87. The Globe Express Co., shipping Proceedings ..... ... . .
200.00
88. P. V. Ross, indexing Constitution ............ . ........ .
89. Shannon-Conmy, printing and binding 1,300 copies Prooe:edings, $1,149.20; engraving half-tone and printing
1,300 copies (Weller), $15; engraving half-tone and
printing 1,300 copies (Coleman), $15. . .. .. .. ....... 1.179.20

90. Pacific T. & T. Co., 11ent Decembt.•, 1911 ........ , ... , . .. .
8.65
91. A. J. Monroe, 800 2c envelopes ........................ .
10.14
92. The Call, October 1 to January 1, 1912., ............... .
2.25
93. Shreve & Co., 1 set Flatware .. ........... .. .... .. ..... . 300.00
94. Geo. R. Armstrong, 31,000 receipts, $114.70; postage, $8.84;
1 quart Diamond paste, 75c .. . ................. .. ..
124.29
95. McNutt, Kahn & Co., 1 cone cotton twine, 70c; 100 sheets
carbon, $3.50; 1 dozen penholders, 30c; 1 roll wrapping paper, $3.50; ~ lb. rubber bands, $1.25 ; 1 dozen
grip files, $3 ; 1 quart paste, 60c; ~ dozen blotters,
50c; 0 gross blotters, 75c; 200 vertical folders, $2 ... · 16.10
96. John Whicher, expres·sage on package from Eureka, 25c;
·
dray.age on Proceedings to King Solomon's Hall, 50c i
washing 501 aprons, $25.05 ; washing 59 pair gloves,
$2.95 ................ . .......... . : .. ............ •'
28.75
97. T. J. Baker, expenses November 23 to December 29, 1911.
84.85
98. T. ]. Baker, advertising school of instruction ... . . , ..... .
1.20
99. J. A. McRae, for widow of J . W. Doane, order of Grand
Master ..........•.......... , ..................... .
75.00
100. A. W. Viney, for Brother J. 0. Butler, order of Grand
Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50.00
101. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman . .........
25.00
102. Masonic Temple Association, 1,500 shares of stock. . . . . . . 15,000.00
103. N. W. Halsey & Co., balance on seven California Gas &
Electric 5 per cent bonds ........ .. ........ .. ...... .
411.39
104. John Whicher, salary Janua1ry, 1912 .... ... .. .. . . .. .... . .
300.00
105. T. J. Baker, salary January, 1912.... .. ... .. ........... ..
200.00
106. H. S. Johnson, salary January, 1912 . . . .. ....•. ... . .. . ...
150.00
107. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent February, 1912 ..•...... , . . .... . .
118.00
108. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor . . . .. .. .. , .... .
35.00
109. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman ......... .
25.00
110. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent January, 1912., ........ , . • , .. . .
8.60
111. Schmidt Lithograph Co., 300 Master Masons' diplomas . . .
255.00
112. Rabjohn & Morcum, 1 frame .... .. ...... ............ ..
1.75
113. Shannon-Conmy, 500 lairge 2c envelopes, $12.75 ; 800 certificates of election, $6.50; 400 lists of rejections, $12;
1,000 Monitors, $100; 100 titles Monitors, Needles, $2.
133.25
114. T . J. Baker, expenses December 30, 1911, to January 21,
1912 ............... .. ............................ .
61.20
115. J. A. McRae, for widow o·f J . W. Doane, order of Grand
Maste•r .................. . ......... . ........ . .... .
150.00
116. John Whicher, salary February, 1912 . . .. .... .. .. .. .. .. . .
300.00
117. T. J . Baker, salary February, 1912 .. .... . ............ .. .
200.00
118. H. S. Johnson, sala·ry February, 1912 . ... . ............. . .
150.00

48

..

..

;

4

49

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

119. E. J, Tobin & Co., rent March, 1912 .. .. .. , .. . ........ ..
118.00
120. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ............. .
35.00
121. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman .. . ...... .
25.00
122. T. ] .. Baker, expenses January 29 to February 22, 1912 . .. .
104.20
123. Star Towel Supply Co., rent Noviember 1 to February 1,
2.25
1912 ........... '.'.' ... ' .... '.' ..... ' .. ' ... ' ' .... .
124. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent February, 1912 .......... . ... . . .
8.45
125. A. L. Auradou, engrossing resolutions G. Johnson, $25 ;
binding same, $10 . : ........ . ................... . .. .
35.00
126. John Whicher, telegram to Grand Master, 40c; repairing
chair, 25c; expressage on package to San Diego, 24c;
expressage on package to Long Beach, 24c; expressage on package to Eureka, $2; postage stamps, $30.50.
33.63
127. John Whicher, sala.ry March, 1912 .... : ................ .
300.00
128. T. ]. ·Baker, salary March, 1912 .. .. ... . . ......... .. .... .
200.00
129. H. S. Johnson, salary March, 1912 ........... . .... . . , .. .
150.00
130. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent April, 1912 ....• , . .. , .... , .·. .... .
118.00
131. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ... .. .... .... .
35.00
132. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman .. .. ..... .
25.00
133. T. J. Baker, expenses February 22 to March 28, 1912 . ... .
135.15
134. The Call, January 1 to April 1, 1912 ................ .. .. .
2.25
135. E. C. Hughes Co., 500 2c envelopes) $12.75; 500 envelopes,
$2; overprint 200 letter heads, $3.25; 1,000 letter heads
and steel die, $15; 1,000 letber heads, $4 ............. .
37.00
136. Shannon-Conmy, 800 rosters 1911, $1,892.80; 500 2c envelopes, $12.75; 500 patent clasp envelopes, $6.50; 400
lists of rejections, $12; 1,000 clasp envelopes, $9.50;
500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75 ; 500 lists of inspectors,
$30; ·500 circulars, $3.25 ..... . ..... . .. ....... .... . . 1,979.55
137. Pa~ific T. & T. Co., rent March, 1912 ............ . .... . .
8.45
138. Burroughls Adding Machine Co., attention to machine six
months ....... . ... ...... . . . .... . ....... ... . ....... .
4.00
139. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait Dana R. Weller ........... . .
125.00
140. N ea! Publishing Co., 1,000 circulars (price list), $5.50;
1,000 Constitutions, $378.30 ; 50 books interleaved, $15;
author's corrections, $47.55 . . ... . . ..... .. . . .... .... . .
446.35
1.0. John Whicher, drayage on rosters to King Solomon's
Hall, 75c; expressage on package to Oakland, 25c; expressage on package to Holtville, 2lc ; expressage on
package to Alameda, 40c; taxes on furniture, $6.46 ;
expressage on shipping roster, 1911, $97.85 .. .... .... .
105.91

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

142. Wm. H. Phillips Co., roll call, $3.50; pay roll, $8.50; annual return book, $9.50·. ... . . . ............ '. ........ .
143. Geo. R. Armstrong, 23,000 receipts, $85.10; 1 index to
trial records, $9.75 ; postage, $3.95 .................. .
144. E . S. Valentine, mailing letters account endowment committee ......•......•.... ...... .. .'... .. · . . . . : .. · · . . ·
145. John Whicher,_ salary April, 1912 ......... .. ........... ..
146. T. ]. Baker, salary April, 1912 .......... . . .. ........... .
147. H. S. Johnson, salary April, 1912 ... . , ........... . .. ... ..
148. E. J. Tobin & Co., rent May, 191~ ............ .'... .. ... ..
149. Willi~ P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Taylor ............. .
150. Redlands Lodge No.. 300, for Brother Heitman ..... . .. .. .
151. Neal Publishing Co., 1,500 Constitutions and Ceremonies,
$834.75; author's changes; $16.35 .... : .. ........... . .
152. Wilson Bros. Co., Inc., cartage, $6; 10 months' storage,
$20 . ........ ~ ................. : ................ .. ..
153. Mercantile T~ust Co., rent safe deposit box .. . .. . . : ..... .
154. John Whicher, 500 lists regular Lodges .. .. . . .. . .. . .... .
155. T. J. Baker, expenses March 29 to April 25, 1912 ...... . .
156. Shannon-Conmy, 500 large 2c envelopes, $12.75; 500 lists
of rejections, $16.50; 500 small 2c envelopes, $12.50;
2,000 address labels, $5·; 500 large 2c envelopes,
$12.75 ' .... ' ..... .. ... ' ... .... ' .... ' ' ' ..... ' ..... ' .
157. Wm. R. Phillips Co., binding, 75 volumes: Proceedings
1911, $131.25; 1 volume in cloth, $1.25 .............. .
158. John Whicher, expressage regalia from Willows, $1; expressage regalia from Santa Monica, $1.80; expressage Monitors, etc., $11.87; freight List of Lodges,
$2.42; telegra.m account List of Lodges, 75c; telegram
to New Orleans, $1.50; telegram to Little Rock, $1.50;
expressage from McCloud Lodge, 25c; typewriter ribbons, $2; postage stamps, $56 .... . .. . ............ .. .
159. John Whicher, salary May, 1912 ......... . ............ ..
100. T . ]. Baker, !salary May, 1912 ............... ......... .,
161. H. S. Johnson, salary May, 1912 .... .... .. .. ... ..... .. ..
162. E. ]. Tobin & Co., rent June, 1912 ... .. .. . . ....... .. .. ..
163. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. Ta.ylor .............. .
164. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Jieitman ......... .
165. T . J . Baker, expenses May 3 to May 24, 1912 .. . ... .. ... .
166. McNutt, Kahn Co., 1 cone cotton twine .... . ...... . .... .

!i 1

21.50
98.80
6.50
300.00
200.00
150.00
118.00
35.00
25.00
851.10
26.00
. 7.50
100.00
34,95

59.50
132.50

79.84
300.00
200.00

150.00
118.00
35.00
25.00
59.70
.75

52

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF ""rHE

167. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent April and May, 1912 .. . .. . . . ... .
168. Star Towel Supply Co., rent February 1 to May 1, 1912 ..
169. Rabjohn & Morcum, frame for Weller's portrait. . ... .... .
170. John Whicher, express.age on Monitors, etc., $6.66; expressage on Proceedings from Vaca ville, 3Sc; telegram from Grand Master, 40c; photograph diploma
for Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, $1.90 .. ... . . .. .. .
171. John Whicher, salary June, 1912 .... ... .... ... ......... .
172. T. J. Baker, salary June, 1912 . .... .. ...... .... .. .. .... .
173. H. S. Johnson, salary June, 1912 ......... ...... ........ .
174. E. J. Tobin Co., rent July, 1912 .. .... .... .. . . . .......... .
175. William P. Filmer, for Mrs. C. W. ·T aylor . .... . . .. . .. . .
176. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman . . . . .. ... .
177. John Whicher, expressage Monitors, etc., $5.31 ; telegram
to South West Lodge, 40c; telegram from Grand
Master, 45c; postage stamps, $40 ... ... .. ..... . .... . .
178. William R. Phillips Co., 15 books (card index system) .. .
179. E. C. Hughes Co., 500 circulars (card index system) . .. .
180. Shannon-Conmy, 500 la.rge 2c envelopes, $12.50; 400 No.
12 envelopes, $3.7S.; 400 No. 14 .envelopes, $4.75 ; 1,000
Monitors, $120; 400 lists of rejections, $15 ; 300 inserts
installation service, $3.50 . ... .. . ... .... ... ... .. ..... .
182. T. J. Baker, expenses May 25 to June 26, 1912 .. .. ..... . .
183. R. G. Guyett, premium insurance on furniture . .. . . . .... .
184. Rabjohn & Morcum, frame for Coleman's portrait ...... .
185. D. G. Blakiston, oil portraits of E. Coleman and 0.
Lawler .... . ,·, .... . ............. .. .. .. ...... . .... . .
186. The Call, April 1 to July 1, 1912 ........ . .. .. .. .. .... .. .
'187. Geo. · R. Armstrong, ·1 Jair paste, 75c ; 13,000 receipts,
$48.10 ...... . . . .. . . ..... .. ...... . . ... . .. . .. ..... . . .
188. John Whicher, salary July, 1912 .. . ........ ... ..... . . ... .
189. T. J. Baker, salary July, 1912 .... ....... .... .... .. .... ..
190. H. S. Johnson, salary July, 1912 .. .. .... ....... ..... .. ..
191. Edward Coleman, salary for year .. ... .. . .. ... ... . ... . .
192. E. J. Tobin Co., rent Augu:st, 1912 .. . .. ... .... .. ....... .
193. Wm. P. Filmer, for Mrs. c. W. Taylor .. .. . ... . .. . . . . . . .
194. Redlands Lodge No. 300, for Brother Heitman .. .. . ... ...
195. Pacific T . & T . Co., rent July, 1912........ . ... .. .. . .... .

16.45
2.25
40.45

9.31
300.00
200.00
1.so.00
118.00
35.00
25.00

46.16
270.00
20.75

196. Shannon-Co~my, 800 annual return blanks, $75; 500 large
2c envelopes, $12.75; 400 lists of rejections, $17.50 . . . .
197. McNutt, Kahn & Co., 1. ream legal paper, $1.60; 1 roll
wrapping paper, $2.75 . .. .... ... . ........ .. .. . .. . .. .
198. Rabjohn & Morcum, frame for Lawler's portrait ....... .
199. H. S. Crockier & Oo., 4,500 cards, $29; 400 guides, $4.20;
1 cabinet, $7 (Committee on Credentials); 2 steel
cabinet safes and units, $404; 1 steel case for roster
of members, $59.75 (card index system) . .. .. .. . . . . . .
200. E. C. Hughes Co., 3,500 shieets record of membership
(card index system) .. •. . . . . . ....... . . . .. . . , . . . . . .
201. T. J. Baker, expenses June 30 to July 26, 1912 .. . ..... .. .
202. John Which er, typing 160 copies inspectors' reports, $5.50;
expressage Monitors, etc., $1.17; telegram to Grand
Master, 40c ; telegram to Santa Monica Lodge, 70c ..

53
105.25
4.35
26.25

503.95
30.00
145.65

7,77

Total disbursements by warrants ... . .... .. ... . . $53.025.01

PAY ROLL.
159.50
68.50
14.20
49.25
250.00
2.25
48.85
300.00
200.00
150.00
200.00
118.00
35.00
25.00
8.40

........ .. ..

Representatives ···· ·· ·· ······· ··· ·· ····· ··· ····
$5,495.75
Grand Officers
···· ············ ···· ······· ·· ············· ·· 445.00
Chairmen of Standing Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
51.70
Past Grand Masters ... . .. . . ......... . . . . ... .. .. . . ... ..• . , . .
149.00
Inspectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
712.75
Grand total ... . . . .. .... ... .. .. . . ... . . .. . . . ... .. .... . ..·.$59,879.81
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of California for the fiscal year ending July 31st, 1!112:
l)ues from Subordinate Lodges . . . . . . ... . .... : ... .. .. .. .. ... $50,003.00
Fees for Charters ( 4) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
200.00
l>l1pensations to form new Lodges (11)... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
825.00
290.00
Special dispensations for various purposes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Reimbursement from Reading Lodge, account relief. . . . . . . . .
64.00
l)ues from J . M. Dunn, St. Marks Lodge, extinct... .. .. ... . .
3.50

54

· PROCEF.:DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SALES FOR Y!;:AR,

Which was referred to the Special Committee to which
had been referred the Address of the Grand Master.

Proceedings
Monitors ...... ... .. ........... .... ......... . ........ . ... .
Diplomas (larg.e) . . . . . .... .. . . ... ....... . .. . .. ... . .. . . .. . .
Bound volumes . . ....... ... ....... .. ... . .... . ..... ... . ... .
Receipts for dues .......................................... .
Receipt Holders ............. .. . . . . ...... . ....... . . . .. .. .. .
Diplomas (small) .......... .. . . ......................... ..
Lists of Regular Lodges ................................... .
Diplomas (Past Masters) ... .. . .. ........ . ............... .
Constitutions, paper bound .. . ..... . .............. ... . . . ... .
Constitutions, interleaved . .... ..... . ... ... .......... . . . ... .
Constitutions and Ceremonies ........... . ................. .

21.00
492.00
252.00
5.00
394.00
99.00
61.00
18.00
7.00
25.00
9.00
819.00
$53.587.50

Hom.e Fund ..... . ... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45,836.00
Amounting in the aggregate to . ........ .. ............. ..... $99,423.50
All which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per receipts
on file in this office, and as will be shown by his report.
F<lr the current Fiscal Yiear, August 1st to October 4, 1912, inclusive, I have collected and paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum of
$101,166.10, segregated as . follows:
Home Fund .... . • .. ..... . ............. .. . . . .... ........ . . . $ 48,315.00
General Fund ..... ·............. . ..................... . . . . ·:· 45,756.70
Representative ~und . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,094.40
Total ... .... .. . . .. .. .... .......... . . . .. . . .•. .'.... ... . $101,166.10
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

.

5&

The report of the Grand Treasurer was then read, as
follows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of Californi(JI:

The undersigned herewith submits his account of the receipts and
expenditures <Jf the Grand Lodge for the past year :
The Grand Treasurer in Account With the Grand Lodge for the Fiscal.
Year Ending July 31, 1912.
RJ;:CJ;:lPTS.

Balance on hand as per last annual report, July
1911 ........... . ................... .. ......... . . . ...... $34,152.37
Received from Grand. Secretary during fiscal year .. $53,587.50
Received interest on deposit with A. Borel & Co...
784.92
Received interest on deposit with Union Trust Co..
630.09
Received interest on seven Blue Lake Water 6%
bonds .. .... ........ . .. .... ... . . ...... ... .. .
420.00
Received interest. .on six Southern Pacific 4% refunding bonds . . .... ; . . .......... ... ..... . . .
240.00
Received interest on six Pacific Gas & Electric
5% bonds, six months, .. ............. . . . ..... .
150.00
Received interest on seven California Gas & Electric 5% refunding bonds, six months . . .... ... .
175.00
Received inter~st on six Stockto~ Gas & Electric
6% bonds ................................. .
360.00
Received interest on six Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5%
bonds .......................... ... ........ .
300.00
Total receipts during fiscal year ending July 31, 1912...... $56,647.51
Total receipts including balanc~ on hai:id from last annua\
report ............. ... .... .. . . .. ... . . . . ..... ., ...... .,. . $90?99.88
!;:XP!;:NDlTURJ;:S.

Paid warrants N<Js. 1 to ~2 inclusive ... .. . . .. .. .... ........ $53,025.01
Paid Representatives of Lodges .... . .... . . . .. . ... $ 5,495.75
Paid Grand Officers . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . .. . . . . .. . .
445.60
Paid Chairman Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
51.70
Paid Past Grand Masters........................
149.00
Paid Inspectors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
712.75
6,854.80

56

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

57

Total expenditures for fiscal year ending July 31,
1912 ........•.................................. ; . . . . . $59,879.81
Balance on hand carried to n_ext fiscal year. . . . . . . . . . . . 30,920.07
$90,799.88
The assets of the Grand Lodge consist of :
Deposits in Bank of A. Borel & Co ............... $16,485.71
Deposits in Union Trust Co. of San Francisco .... 14,434.36
---Seven Blue Lake Water 6% bonds @ $110 ...... $ 7,700.00
Six Southern P.acific refunding 4% bonds @ $93. . 5,580.00
Six Stockton Gas & Electric 6% bonds@ $103.... 6,180.00
Seven California Gas & Electric 5% bonds@ $95. 6,650.00
Six Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5% bonds@ $100......... 6,000.00
22,500 shares of Masonic T·emple Association
@ $10 ..................................... 225,000.00

MASONIC HOME.
General Fund to September 9, 1912.
Rl!Cl!IPTS.

$30,920.07

257,110.00

Total assets .......................................... $288,030.07
The Grand Treasurer reports that since closing his books for the
past fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary:
For general account ..................... .'...... $52,851.10
For interest on deposits .'.................... • . . .
287.32
For interest on seven $1,000.00 Blue Lake Water
bonds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
210.00

Cash balance on hand as per last report, October 2, 1911 ... , .. $12,240.98
Received per capita tax and interest to September
9 from Grand Lodge for year 1912 ......... . $46,096.5(
Received November 14, 1911, special appropriation by Grand Lodge. .. . .. • .. . .. . .. .. . . .. . . . 7,500.00
Received from Secretary of Masonic Home during year ................... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,963.64
Received from interest on deposits with Antone Borel & Co ...................... $246.51
Received interest on deposits with Bank
of Italy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673.82
--938.33
Receipts for year ending September 9, 1912......
62,498.48
Total receipts including balance of October
2, 1911 . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$74,739.46

$53,348.42
The Grand Treasurer also reports that since the
commencement of the present fiscal year he
has received from the Grand Secretary the
per capita tax of the Grand Lodge for the
Masonic Home for the year 1912, amounting
to the sum of .............................. $48,315.00
. And interest on same from Bank of Italy. . . . . . . .
111.41

DISBURSl!M l!NTS.

Paid warrants 15 to 24, including transfer to Endowment Fund $904.40 under Rule 16 ....... .
Cash on hand September 9, 1912 ................. .

$48.426.41

$49,904.40
24,835.06

Deposited with Ant. Borel & Co ...... $10,594.15
Deposited with Bank of Italy.. . . . . . . 14,240.91

$74,739,46
$24,835.06

58

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

59

MASONIC HOME.

ASSJ!TS.

Endowment Fund to September 9, 1912.

25 Santa Barbara Municipal Bonds ........................ $13,437.50

RECEIPTS.

· 2 San Diego Water Works Bonds....... . ................. 1,950.00

Amount cash in bank October 2, 1911, as per report to Grand
Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 2,143.90

S Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Bonds....... .... ...... ... 5,000.00

Received interest from bonds :

Premium paid on above . . ........... : . .. .... .. ..... $391.98
Less, written off ..................... ,. .• . . . . . . . . . . . 90.00

11 Santa Barbara Water Works Bonds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,COO.OO

27 Santa Barbara Municipal. ........ ........·... $652.90
11 Santa Barbara Water Works ... . .. .. ... ..... 247.50
2 San Diego Water Works . .................. 87.74
1 San Diego Highway. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22.50
Received interest Bank of Italy on deposits........ 99.59
Received 2 Santa Barbara Municipal ~onds redeemed
Received transferred to this account under Rule 16,
account Chas. T. Badger ........ .... .. : ...... .

$ 1,110.23
1,075.00

1 San Diego Highway Bond .. .... . ..................... . .

1,000.00

Amount on deposit Bank of Ita:ly ....... . ...... ..... .

301.98
185.06

Add accrued interest September 1, 1912 ............. .

$32,874.54
423.32
$33,297.86

Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD COLJ!MAN,

904.40

Grand Treasurer.

$ 5,233.53

The above report, with the books and vouchers., was referred to the Committee on Finance.

DISBURSED.

Purchased 5 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co. 5%
bonds, payable 1937 ........ . .................. $5,000.00
Premium and commission paid on above ..........
37.50
Paid accrued interest at time of purcha1>e ..... , , .. ,
.10.97
Balance cash in bank September 9, 1912........ .... 185.06
- - - $ 5,233.53

The Grand Se-cretary read the reports of the Boards of
Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland, San Diego,
San Jose, and Sacramento,. as follows-:

MASONIC HOME ENDOWMENT FUND.
SAN FRANCISCO BOARD OF RELIEF.

September 9, 1912.

To the M.'. W.'. Gra,nd Lodge, of Cq,/ifor!lia:

ASSJlTS AND LIABILITIJ!S.
LIABILITIJ!S.

Amount in Fund October 2, 1911, as per report
to Grand Lodge ... .. . ... ... ...... . ........·. ..
· ' $30,920.88
Interest reeeived .. ............ ............... .... $1,110.23
Less, due at purchase of bonds .... . ... $10.97
Less, written off of Premium account. . 50.00
60.97
1,049.26
Transferred under Rule 16, C. T. Badger. .
904.40

$32,874.54

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco presents .the following report for the year beginning September 1, 1911,
and ending August 26, 1912, both da.tes inclusive.
Since our last report this Board has· been augmented by the admission of San :Jl4ateo Lodge No. 226 into the compact, the Board now
consisting of twenty-six Lodges, who have been represented during the
year by their Masters or Representatives.
During the year the question of finding employment for sojourning
Brethren and their widows has become vuy important, and one which
will require the combined effort and co-operation of all the Brethren
of San Francisco to even partially solve. ·

60

61

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EMPLOYMENT.

The coming Exposition of 1915 has brought a great many unemployed to this city, who have been disappointed in not finding the
amount of work the extensive advertising 'in the East had let them to
believe could be found here, and although not conducting a separate
employment bureau, positions have been secured for a great many, by
the Secretary, without incurring any additional expense to the Board.
IMPOSTORS.

Impostors are as plentiful as ever, and some of them seem to be
successful in working the ·whole Pacific Coast. A closer affiliation of
the various Boards of the whole coast and a system of inter-communication could be established which would tend to eliminate .this evil
to a great extent, and with that end in view a meeting of the Secretaries of all these Boards in the near future, to discuss matters of common interest, is greatly to be desired.
We are glad to note that many Lodges throughout the country,
when appealed to by this Board in cases requiring relief, respond
promptly by leaving the matter in our hands to act as we see fit. This
shows a confidence which we think we .deserve, as all cases are handled
to the best of our ability, the utmost economy being observed, as we
fully appreciate' the trust imposed.
In view of these facts, a telegram like the following from a Lodge
in . our own jurisdiction, showing a lack of confidence, by limiting
expenditures which are beyond our . control, is greatly to be deplored:
"Bro. L........ dead at ............ , . . . Street. Extend
courtesies. If financial assistance needed for funeral, limit
expense $75."
The two following telegrams are self-explanatory:
"S. F., July 26, 1912.
"Secretary .............. , Lodge No....... , Connecticut.
"Brother A. A. dead. Family wants Masonic funeral. Wire
instructions.
"Masonic Board of Relief, S. F."
" .......... , ., Connecticut, July 27, 1912.
"Masonic Board of Relief, San Francisco, Cal:
"Accede .to family request, but incur no expense to us
·
"Blank Lodge, No. Blank."

RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.

Disbursemen ts.
United States.
Receipts.
5,206.74
$
'alifornia ................... , .................. $3,496.99
2.00
Alabama ............... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· · ·· · · · · ·
10.00
Arizona .. . ...... .... ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
28.40
3.40
Arkansas ............... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
256.00
247.00
Colorado '........ .. ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · ·; · · · · · · · · ·
141.73
25.00
Connecticut .. .... " .. : ......................... .
605.10
50.00
Delaware ..................................... .
3.50
20.00
Florida ........................................ .
374.25
351.50
Illinois ................. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
47.00
40.00
Indiana ........................................ .
93.00
90.00
Iowa ......................... · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
161.45
Kansas ........ .. . .... ......................... . 133.65
375.90
376.30
Kentucky .. .' ..... . ... · ·• · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
459.00
Louisiana ........................ ,. ........ .. ... . 235.00
169.00
50.00
Maine ......................... ·· ·· ······· ······
99.50
Maryland ..................................... .
377.41
117.50
Massachusetts ... .. ............ · .. · · · · · · · • · · • · · ·
242.50
50.00
Michigan ........ .. ............ ...... .......... .
312.25
190.00
Minnesota ..................................... .
123.00
Missouri ............................... · .... · . . 124.00
172.00
25.00
Montana ..................................... · ..
25.00
Nebraska ...... ...... ........... .. ....•. , ...... .
891.00
Nevada ........... ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· ·" · · · ·" · · 866.80
795.14
New York ................. , .......... . ........ . 587.65
283.50
98.90
Ohio ............... ... .......... ..... ......... .
20.00
10.00
Oklahoma ..................... . ... . .. · • · · · • · · · ·
86.80
93.00
Oregon ................................ • ....... .
238.95
201.75
Pennsylvania . .... . .. . ......... .... ... • • • • · · · · · •
37.00
42.00
Tennessee .... ... . .. ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · • • · · · · · · · ·
187.00
176.25
Texas ........... .. · . .. · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · • · · · · ·
210.25
210.25
Utah ....... ......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· · · • · ·· · ··
79.25
127.80
Washington ·· ··· ··· ·· ·· ............. ,, ,,,
130.00
~
Wisconsin

...... .

o o '

o '

'

'

o o o o o '

o o '

o o o '

o o o '

o o '

I

o '

o '

o o o l

o

$8,168.84
Our finances are in excellent condition, eight cents per capita having been levied on the Lodges and, as will be seen by the detailed
statement, about seventy-five per cent of amount expended for jurisdictions in the United States other than our own has been refunded . .

$12,113.62

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

63

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Foreign.
Algiers ... . ... . ..... . ... ... .... . ..... . .. . . . ..... $ 195.00
Australia . ... . . . . .. . . .. . .... .. .. . ... . .. .. . .... . .
Canada . . . .. . ....... ..... ....... ..... ... .. ...... .
36.50
England ... ... .... . .... . .. . .. ......... .. . ...... .
Ireland . , ....... . .... ... . . . . ...... . .. , ... . ..... .
Mexico . .. ...... . ... . ..... .. . ....... . ... ... .... .
5.00
New Brunswick
Nova Scotia ......... . .. . . .. .......... .. .. . .... .
Ontario
················ ····· ··· ··· ····· ········ 139.25
Scotland ·· ······ ····· .... . ···· ··········· ··· ···
5.00

$ 260.00
32.30
15.00
356.10
47.50
325.00
69.20
240.00
242.00
39.50

·· ········ ····· ··· ····· ··· ··· ···

11rr King . . . .. .. ... . . . ... .. . . No.
I 1r 1ldio . .. .. .. . . •. ..... . ... . No.
1'11rn Francisco . .. . .. ..... . . . .. No.
\mlty . .. . ...... . . . .. . . ... .. . No.
we! ... ... . .... ......... . .. No.
IUrhmond ........ ..... . .. . .. No.
l'u nassus . : . ....... .... .. . ; .. No.
ll1lder . .. ..... . ..... . .. . . ... No.
llurlingame .. .. . . ............ No.

344 . .. ... ·. .. .. . .. . . .. ... .
354 ... ... .. . ... .. . ... . .. .
360 . . . .. .... . .... .. ..... . .
370 . . .. .. . .. ... . ... .. ." .. .
374 .. .. . . . ... .. ... ...... .
375 ........ . . . ... . ........ .
388 ..... ... ....... . .. . .... .
393 .............. .. . . ... .
400 . .......... ..... , . ... . .

204.97
204.62

165.77
230.53
71.82
201.67
153.50
132.82
81.93

$ 7,625.96
RECEIPTS.

$ 380.75

$ 1,626.60

Disbursements to Dimited Masons.
California .... . . ... . . ... . . ... ... .. . . ........ .... $ 659.00
Michigan . ............ . .. . .. . .. ... ..... .. ... . . .
91.50
Texas .. .. ....... ' · . ........ . . . . . . . ..... ....... .
10.00
Nova Scotia .. ... . . ..... ... .... . .... . ..... ... .. . 240.00
New Brunswick . . . .. ....... . ... .... ... .. .... . . .
16.70

$ 1,017.20

Doubtful Record.
Massachusetts . . . . . . . . .. ... ........... ..... ... . . $
Florida . .. . ... .... ...... . . .. .. . . ..... .... .. .. . .

1.00
3.50

From assessments upon City Lodges ....... ·...... . $ 7,625.96
ltefund by sundry Lodges and brethren' of Cali.
fornia ... . ... . . ........ . . , . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,496.99
Hy the Grand Lodge .... .. . .. .......... ·.. .. , . . .. . 2,903.65
lly other jurisdiCtions in the United State's . . ... . 4,671.85
Hy foreign jurisdictions ..... . ·... ..... .. ..... .. . . .
380.75
Interest received from the Humboldt Savings Bank
25.00
Dividends on 25 bonds at 6%, Burlingame Masonic
Hall Association ........ . ......... .... .. " ...
225.00 ·
Interest on the· Johnson Bequest Fund.. . . . . . . . .
315.22

$19,644.42

$

4.50

Amounts Received From Assessments up on Lodges in th e City :
1'f
. . . ... .... . .........• No.
....... a1orma
1 ... ... , ..... . ... ... ... $ 522.97
La Parfaite .. .. . .. .. . ........ No. 17 . . . .. .. .. . . . . ...... .. .
145.66
Occidental .. . . ...... . . , ....... No. 22...... ... ... ........ ..
511.61
Golden Gate . .... . .. , . . , . . . , •• No. 30............. ... .. ... .
434.75
Mount Moriah .... .... ....... '.\J'o. 44.. .... ....... . .. . .. . ..
290.10
Fidelity .. .. .......... , ... , ... No. 120... . ........... .. .....
446.84
Her.mann ............ ......... No. 127.. .. ..................
187.20
Pacific .. .. . . .. . ....... . ...... '.\J'o. 136.. . . .. . ... .... .. ......
535.50
Cr~ckett . .. .. . ... .. ...• . ....• ~o. 139. ... .... . ...... . ......
326.92
Oriental .... , ...... , . • ....... '.\J'o. 144.. . ........... . .... .. .
323.50
E:i_-c~lsior . . ......... . ....••.. No. 166 .. , . .. . . ..... ... .. . ...
363.15
l\11sS1on ... ... ...... . .. . .... . . No. 169. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
793.69
Sou~h San Francisco ..... ..... ' .fo. 212.. ... ...... . ... .. .....
161.76
Done ·· .. . : . . .. .. .. .... . .. ... No. 216. . . . . . ... .. . . . . ...... .
411.31
Esperanza Italiana .. . .. ....••. No. 219 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
167.29
S~n Mateo .......... .... ..... No. 226 .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
85.26
Kmg Solomon's .... . .. . .... , . No. 260 ... .......... . . . ......
470.82

Surplus last report .... . . . ...... . .. .. $1,179.34
l,ess included in receipts 1912. . . . . . . . . . 604.59

574.75

- - - - - - $20,219.17

DISBURSEME NTS,

For the relief of sick and needy brethren, their,
wives, widows and orphans within the jurisdiction of California .. .... ...... .. .. ·.. .. . . .. $ 4,547.84
Within the jurisdiction of United States ....... . 6,800.88
Within foreign jurisdiction . ... ......... , . . . . . . . . 1,369.90
For Dimited Masons .. . . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. . . 1,017.20
For doubtful record . . . ...... .. . .. . . ...... ... . .. ,
4.50
For sundry unclassed........ . .. ... . ..... .. . .. .. ..
20.15

$13,700.47
Board of Relief rent, salaries and miscellaneous·
expenses .... . . ... .. . .. . ... . .... . . '. . . .. . ... . $ 2,121.20
Telegraph and telephone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
111.96
Adjusting audit . . . .. . . .. . ~... .............. . . . .
.62
Balance on hand

15,994.25
$ 4,224.92

64

GRAND .·LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

During the year the following Brethren have been buried with
Masonic honors, or their remains shipped according to the wishes of
the families :
1911
Sept. 1 Lewis H. Jansen ..... Topeka, No. 17 . . ... . . . Kansas
Sept. 3 James W. Saunders .. Vouched for by E. Tucker
Sept. 5 Oren Moran .. • ... : .• Naval, No. 87 ..... . .. . .. California
Sept. 17 E. F. Steagall ....... Linn Wood, No. 167 .... Louisiana
Sept. 25 Asher Cohn ......... Winnedumah, No. 'lS7 . . California
Oct. 23 John Alex. NicholsonAlameda, No. 167 ... ... California
Nov. 8 Robt. McMarigh . .... St. George, No. 15 ...... Canada
Nov. 12 J. F. Ramiciotti. ..... Pacific, No. 233 ........ New York
1912
Jan. 3 Ernest C. Weideman.Genessee Falls, No. 507.New York
Jan. 4 John J. McGrath . ... Mount Juneau, No. 147 . . Alaska
Jan. 17 John B. Hobson . . ... Eureka, No. 16 .. .... ... California
Jan. 26 Alexander McDonaldSt. John's, No. 200a .... Ontario
Feb. 16 Charles Auerbach . ... Yount, No. 12 .. . . ... . . . California
Feb. 16 Henry C. Gaw . . . .. . . Wasatch, No. 1. .' ....... Utah
Feb. 22 David R. Johnston ... Weber, No. 6 ........ . . Utah
Feb. 27 Edward Treuhaft. . . . Oregon, No. 420 . ... .. .. Illinois
Mch. 8 Archibald W. PhillipsMagnolia, No. 242 .. ... . California
Mch. 9 James T. Feeny . . . . . Hope, No. 22 ... .... ... . Nevada.
Mch. 13 Cas. Edw. Adams ... . Washington, No. 20 .... California
Mch. 18 Chester Roy Ordway.Burlingame, No. 400. : . . California
Mch. 26 Harry Edgar Smith . . Pequonga, No. 414 .... .. Ontario
Mch. 28 Carter Noyes PaysonNaval, No. 87 .. . ... . ... California
Apr. 2 George B. Holleran .. Peter Wil'mson, No. 323.Pennsylvania
May 22 Amandus Repsold . . . San Mateo, No. 226 .... California
June 2 Frederick Wm.MullerMorning Star, No. 68 ... California
June 9 Jos. Jaques.Hessing .. Solano, No. 229 .. .. . . .. California
June 11 George· C. Schaefer .. San Mateo, No. 226 . . .. California
June ].3 Calvin Savage Cooper Hanford, No. '279 .. .... California
June 19 Charles Humiston., .Bakersfield, No. 224 .. .. California
June 20 Louis M. Toussaint .. Oceanic, No. 371. ....... Honolulu
June 21 Roderick Machenzie . San Jose, No. 10 .... . . . . California
July 14 Malcolm Mount. . ... Keith, No. 187 . . .. . ... . . California
July 25 Jaromir J . Justice ... True Craftsman, No. 651New York
July 25 James B. McCormichPreston, No. 281. .... .. . Kentucky
July 29 William H. McLean.Warren, No. 51. .... ... Connecticut

July 30
Aug. 6
~ug. 7
Aug. 8

65

Wm. Mills TerriberrJGarfield, No. 686 . .. .. . . . IJlinois
Frank Martinotti. ... Center, No. lQS . . . . . . . . Maryland
Theodor ·Ayers Lynn..Fresno, No. 247 ....... . California
Joseph George Fox . . Olive Brai;ich, No. 269 .. California
Respectfully submitted,

(39)
LEo BRUCK,

Approved :.

T. J. GIU!EN,

Secretary.

Chairman.

BOARD OF RELIEF OF LOS ANGELi;'~.
0

To the Most Worsh.jpful Grand lodge 'of .Frie. an.d Accepted Mason$
of the Sta.te of California, and .Swlior.d'inat11 Lodges of Jhe City of
L os A ngeles, California: ·
The MasoniC Board of Relief; of the City of Los Angeles, herewith presents the followi'ng report of' its· labors from Septemb·e r l, 1911,
to August 31, 1912:
OFFICERS.
Presiden t .. . . . .•. .. ,:.. ...... ·"'.· . .. •., .. ... . . . . Brother JoHN· HILL BtAN
Vice-President . ........ . . ,, , . ... .. ... . , . . . Brother DANA REm W'£LLER
Treasurer . . . . .:~ . .'.-:'. , . .. ...... . '. . . .. .. . Brother Motu:Y HEwEs Fti'Nr
:)ecretary . . .. .. ·. . .' . . . . .... .... . Bro,tJi.er DR. JoHN M.ARcus DUNSMOOR .
' MASONIC. EMPLOYMENT BURE.AU.

0

.l

The Masonic Employment Bureau, operated in conjunction with
this Board of Reli~f; .is supported by a monthly co.ntribution from the
several Royal Arch Chapters, Councils, Commanderies, Scottish Rite
Bodies, Shrine, and this Board of Relief. It is controlled by a Board
of Directors, the representative.s of the above named bodies, who are
also members of this Boar\i of -Relief. They arc; . Broth,e rs John ·H .
Bean, Samuel E. Burke, Robie. E. Dill, Motley }I. Flint,. Dr. J9~n
P. Gilmer, Harry C. K tJPX, J ohn I. Moys·e, Francis M. P.ai:ker,,' Ji>.h'ii
Renfrew, Edward B. Spencerl Ed ware{ L. Stephens' and Perry.. · W,.
Weidner.
·
· ··
'
·· · '
·
'
This Bureau is . under the direct management of Brother Fred T.
Purdy, who gives his entire time to the work. He reports that during
the year ending August 31, 1912, there have been 972 applications filed
with him; that he has secured positions fo r 484 men and 93 women, be5

•
66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sides a vast n"Umber of temporary po&itions not taken into account in
the above report.
We consider this branch one of the most important of our work.
Would that every city had such an organization.

A WORD OF WARNING.

The large corporations and business houses req~ire their employes to pass a physical examination before a~cepttng them-and
rest assured the physicians who 1pake those examinations are honest
a~d give their employers the benefit of t~e doubt. Forty years of age
·
is also the limit.
The year just closed has been one calling f?r the greate7t amount
of relief in the history of this Board of Relief. In looking for a
cause I can only suggest that the widespread popularity of Southern
California has brought to our section many people who were unable
to maintain themselves after arriving in our midst. The low rates
of travel from the East to the West brought many craftsmen who,
being unable to obtain work and receive Master Ma~ons'· wages immediately upon their arrival, were forced to seek rehef at the ha~ds
of their brethren. Also a vast number of invalids-people suffering
from tuberculosis nervous prostration, rheumatism· or asthma, seek
the more genial ciimate of Southern California, after having expended
their money seeking health in their own state, vainly endeavor to regain their strength in the West. These must be given as the chief
causes for the excessive calls for relief.
Again look at the number of burials which have been supervised
by this Board of Relief, and the wonder is that our expe.nses have ~ot
been greater. However, it has been our ple~sur~ to contnbute our mite
to relieve the distress of our Brethren, their widows and orphans.
DEATHS.

During the year ending August 31, 1912, the follow~ng seventy-six
Masons or members of their families havie passed to their final rewar~,
and their remains have been given burial with Masonic honors, or
shipped according to the wishes of the families, viz:

67 .

RECORD OF DEATHS.
NAMIC

LODGE AND NO.

LOCATION.

DATI! OF' DEATH

Jami's C. Cooper
Siloam 225
Topeka, Kan.
Sept. 15, 1911
amuel Miran Greiory Olympia 864
Chicago, Ill.
Sept 23, 1911
I .1nne Courtney KennedyNogales 11
Nogales, Ariz.
Oct. 2, 1911
'urustas Gerhard
Western Star 2 Nebraska City, Neb. Oct. 9, 1911
11.arry Bloomstein
El Paso 130
El Paso, Texas
Oct. 6, 1911
I j, • • A. Cockburn
Capitol 66
Lansing, Mich. •
Oct. 14, 1911
J<>hn H. Post
:Evansville 64
Evansville, Ind.
Oct. 20, 1911
) lmcs L. Warren
Needles 326
Needles, Cal.
Oct. 21, 1911
John G. St. John
Naval 4
Washington, D. C. Oct. 24, 1911
ll1111iel Frost
Kalama 17
Kalama, Wash. ·
Oct. 27, 1911
llyron Husted Allen
Zion 514
Orchard Park, N. Y. Nov. 8, 1911
Jo1hua Lynne Rogers Temple 299
Kansas City, Mo.
Nov. 17, 1911
C;.... C. Riley
Middle Grove 42 Middle Grove, Mo. Nov. 30, 1911
Oren D. Brown
Summit 163
St. Paul, Minn.
Dec. 2, 1911
ltllzabeth Bennedict
Preston 36
Preston, Minn.
Dec. 6, 1911
John B. Canfield
Esoteric
Springfield, Mass. Dec. 20, 1911
t 'has. F. Moeller
OsteniniO 435
Binghampton, N. Y. Dec. 23, 1911
Oeo. W. Limerick
Oklahoma 3
Oklahoma C., Okla. Dec. 29, 1911
' laetus Baum
Pacific 136
San Francisco, Cal. Jan. 1,_ 1912
Harry R. Dixon
Crescent 207
Staples, Minn.
Jan. 5, 1912
Ora D. Gifford
Iris. 229
Cleveland, Ohio
Jan. 15, 1912
C!has. E. Van Hoesen Landmark 422
Chicago, Ill.
Jan. 21, 1912
·rhos. A. Burrier
Masters 244
Knoxville, Tenn.
Jan. 23, 1912
Joel B. Bassett
Minneapolis 19 Minneapolis, Minn. Feb. 1, 1912
l>r. Jos. W. WarbintonCorner Stone 323 St. Louis, Mo.
Feb. 2, 1912
John S. Benedict
Preston. 36
Preston, Minn.
Feb. 5, 1912
Henry Albert
St. Paul 3
St. Paul, Minn.
Feb. 14, 1912
C'has. F. Bradley
Tecumseh 17
Tecumseh, Neb.
Feb. 16, 1912 Earnest Hayden
Puritan
Whitman, Mass.
Feb. 18,1912
William Simmonds
Excelsior 116
Grass Lake, Mich.
Feb. 20, 1912
F.dward H. Shumate
Clinton 339
Clinton, Okb.
Feb. 22, 1912
John F. H axel
Bodley 1
Quincy, Ill.
Mch. 3, 1912
Wm. ]. Healy
Siloam 225
Topeka, Kan.
Mch. 9, 1912
John P. Shumway
J!vergreen 259
Riverside, Cal.
Mch. 17, 1912
A. Arons
Tucson 4
Tucson, Ariz.
Apr. 7, 1912
Oeo. B. Sewell
Denver 5
Denver, Colo.
Apr. 8, 1912
Dalton Edgar Perkins Capltol 110
Des Moines, Iowa Apr. 11, 1912
Elias W. Culver
Temple 299
Kansas City, Mo. Apr. 11, 1912

· . PROCEED~N~S -OF THE.••
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NAME.

LODGE ANff NO.

' . LOCATION.

Mary Elizabeth Bailey . Berkeley 363
Berl<:eley, Cal.
Apr. :12, 1912
Me~viUe L. Smead
Con.~inental 287 N. Y.. City, N. X. Apr:. 10, 1912
M\chael Edward Hopkins Mishawaka 135 Mishawaka,. }114,: ' A1;n-.. 26, 1912
Zach~riah" Fi!.rmer
Ag-Uas CalientesislAg. Oali~tes, M.ex·: .f\pr_
. 17, 19P
L. c:; Clii)e .·
Union)
·Denver, Colci. .
Apr. 17, i912
.Oly!IJpi~- ,864
;chicago, Ill.
. Apr. 2S, 1912
Stephen W. Curtis
Wm. ·s. Barclay
~ Roseville · 143
Ne,wark,' N. J.
Apr.. 26, 1912
j osi;ph~s
"
B"urnett.
:
R~hii(
City
451
Rom~
:Ci~y.
Ind.'
Apr.
26, 1912
,
f
, .. i:;,: . ,
. r,,
.. , ••
Lanm.e J: Grinnell
Speqcer.
,Spencer,. Mass.
Apr. .30, 1912
Jt;>jt!i. · :fred..Blanchard • , Ph_o~ri~~ 178
' S: tJe.rn~rdino, 9~·- May 4, 1912
:iJernh;frd"Kerscher ....Bethel 733
- ~- Y,_,q~y, N. Y.
})fay.- 5,.1912
Josep)i C.' McMahon . 'T,emp!e 84
Deiiver,. ~~Colo.
.May. 8, 1912
Yoln~y Alex. "Simpsciri .S. B. Ventura 214Ventura, Cal._r
May 14, 1912
Replie.P. Grigsby ·. · _,,,·: .,A-ri~O,ra. 2 , _
Phoenix, Ariz'.
May 24, 1912
!:leqj.~ 'w. Mitchell ··: .'QhadtY,.:331 ·
'.St.. Joseph, Mo.
. May 25, 1912
}Ieor)' Plarit:
.~ .·: ; , D?.nde( 190
.D~ndee,' Ill.
.,June: 3, 191~
~di:nl;ipd _Ro~s Gregg : .:Eiil~ri_a· i12
·E.mporfa, Kan.
June 4, 1912
i\ly,e y Curtis, H arvey · Iriyo 2Zl
Iiic:Lepen~ence, C~I. June 5, 1912
~Q!~ Cunpl}iJ1g~ ·c~h:fr/ ptar 409~ Whitr; Creek, T~n. June IJ, 1912
,Eµ~tqn S. lfaymond' . Sha.wnee 107
Shaw11ee, Okla.
Jun~ 7, 1912
;flepry I. H:olway ,.,_:. Pal~u'~e .. 46
. ~;tfouse, Wash.
June 1-4, i9ii
,H,enry, Weaver
:· ~ .T uscan, 560
St. Louis, Mo.
June 14, 1912
Antoipe Pripre
· ., H~bro_n: 813 <-• .N.'. · y , City,_ 1'f. Y June 15,1912
,Ei;µp.i.iel Stead
. . -~ Mt. Mo_riah 15S .. Ppilad,clphia, · Pa._ . June 22, 1912
J;i.roes W. Cahill_:. • · . Montrose 6~
¥c:introse, Colo.
.. June 27, 1912
,~lioqias ·w alton
. Orient 339 ,
Toronto, Canada . )une 30, 1912
,H~nry Arden
··' J~~ti~(.ZS.3 .
N,\'., Ci;},
)uly . l, 1912
.W,Wiai;n Radford Browµe l<ii~ri~ng 64 • London, Canada
July J,' 1912
~enja_ipin N. Jacobson- ,Roch~_ster 660
Ro~lies.ter, N. Y., .. July •• 2, 1912
f.~tp#r Augustus Janes "O!ive: Branch 269 :r\lla.re, Cal.
J1tly .z; 1912
,L~n.-.~ Lewls Ful_forton :J:vfar_i9n,-6
, j\1ar.ion, Iowa
.- ]'uly 6j 1912
;willi;iin Gay · · . ,. Tannehill 52
iD'})las, Texas~!
Ju ly :, 7, ·i912
;c'.iia rles Morrin
Vl~tor .99
Vi1=tor, Colo.
. Aiig. 6, 1912
$,ara h. Robbins
.. ·-".Rq~k River 612 ~ St~rli~g, Ill.
• A.~. ·,.-8, 1912
J~lm : MiJl!s. ..Morris .. , ·40ng_Beach 327 ·Long Beach, C.al. . . Aug. 9,' 1912
James C'.., ~uckman ,, ,'Gotlik 519 · ·• --~~\ladelphia, Pa:
Aug.° 17,, 1912
P~d~ldi'_Gr~enhalgh:--.- . -;El~nev,olent 28
K , Y,. City, N. \'. .A,ug. 18, 1912
~~~~ ~~ritO,n ~~H~~ ~~Loveland 53
Lof.re~<J.nd, <;.olo. ··. A'!_
g. - "26, ·191?
~ i~

q..

~

69

DATE OF DEATH

~

1

N. '(, ..

·'

..

DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMJ,; NTS.
CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.

Paid. Received.
Africa . .. , , ........ , . ............... . . . . . . .. ...... $
5.00
165.00 $- 20.00
Alabama . •. , . , . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alaska ... . , . ..... ... ... . ... .. . . . . .. . ... . . _. . . . . . . .
25.00
105.00
Alberta . . • . . .. . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
105.00
Argentine .... , . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23.75
278.60
221.85
Arizona . . . ... ~ . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . .
.l\rkansas . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
45.00
Australia ..... , .... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
51 .00
28.00
British Columbia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,644.48 1,139.70
Canada . .. . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
350.35
135.00
C::hina. . .... . , . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
125.00
eolorado .• . ... ... •.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
454.75
315.45
Connecticut- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27.00 .
Dela ware ;;;.... .. . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
10.00
. 10.00
England , . _. ·. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
272.75
Florida . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
182.75
90.00
Georgia . • . • . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
53.50
Germany .. . ..,. . . . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1317.25
Hawaii .. ; , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
23.35 .
Honolulu .•. . ·; .. . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . .
19.50 ·
I.d aho ... . . . . ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
40.00
Illinqis, ... , ._ . . ; . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,729.15 l,273.80.
Indiana ... , •.. . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .. . . ... . . . . . . . . .
682.70 • 516..45'
' ti0.00'
low_a . . . . . . .. . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . .
275.85
Ireland . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 58.40
Iskm~ of Jersey . ... .. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . ... . , 25.00
1::1000
Islan~ of Malta : ...... ... . . . . .. .... . ... . ....... .... ...... .
2.00 :1idu;'I.'
Kansas ..•. ,. . •'. · . ..... ... ......... . .... . .... ....._....,.......... ... , 254.15 .· ,.'1!17JS
Kentucky . , ... ·2· .... , .... , _. . . ,. .. . . • . • . • .. . • . • • . • • • . . 203.60 11' 150i10
Loui~iana " ·:-;;.. . . . ,,,, .., .. .. . ., ...... . . . . ... ... .. . , . 285.00
·228·.j)O
Maine.-~. . _
--- - . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
465.50
400.00
Man~la : .. ·.n .. :::,l{................................. ~ ................_....~ ........ 30.00 '
Manitoba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
35.00
Maryland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
112.00
80.00
Massachusetts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
496.00
439.35
Mexico . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
341.00
200.00
Michigan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
568.30
499.40
422.80
Minnesota . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
509.80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF T}{E

70

Paid. Received.
12.50
42.00
643.92
511.27
..... .. .... .... .............
60.00
Nebraska . ....... .... . . .. ..... .... . . ....... . . . . . .
115.00
196.40
Nevada . , ........... .. .. ..... . ..... .. ....... .....
44.00
New Brunswick ................. .:.···· · ·· ··· ·· ·· · · · ·
34.70
New Hampshire ................. ... .... .•.... .. .
45.00
13L40
94.40
~ ew i;rs~y .. .. .. . •.. ... . . .. . . .. . ... . ..... . .. . . ..
70.00
20.00
y
1,387.00
643.55
ew Zealand .......... . .. .. ... . .. .. ··· ···········
12.00
17,00
North Carolina .. .. . . ... . .... ..... . . . ... ...... .. .
20.00
North Dakota . .. ....... . ........ . . . .. ... . .. . .... .
37.00
10.00
30.00
~orway . :·· · · ..... .. ......... .. . . . . . ..... ... .. . .
ova Scotta .................. . . . .. . . .... . ... . .. .
52.00
Ohio
816.84
369.34
... .... ... ..... ... . .. . ..... · · .... · . · · . · ·
... ..... .. ........... ..... .. .... ... ..... 277.00
82.55
110.15
~~!s~~va~-~ ................. · .. · · · · ' · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
... ... .... ........ .. .. ... .... .... .... . 308.85
174.00
Rhode Island ····· ·· .. .. ..... .. .. .. ..... .. .... .. .
42.50
Scotland . •. •..... ...... . .. . . . .. ..... .. . . . .. .. . .
125.00
17.00
South Carolina ... .. ... ...... ..... ....... .. .......
25.00
South Dakota ... ... .... ... ... .. .. ... .. ....... ....
15.00
Sweden .. .• •. . ........ . .. . . . ....... .. .... .. . .. ·
10.00
......... .... .. .. ...... ........... .....
92.20
10.00
Texas ....... . .. . ..... . .. . ... . ........ ... .. .. ....
240.98
70.85
Utah .. .... .. ... . . . . .. . . . ... .. ................. ..
112.00
55.00
Vermont .. ... ........... ... ........................
43.50
Virginia ....•.....•........... ~ ................. .
43.65
8.65
Wales . . .. . " .............. ... .... ... . . . ... .. .. . .
30.00
Washington, D. C . ........ .. .. ....... .. ..... . ... .
314.05
175.00
Washington State .................·.... ....... .. .. .
ll8.80
76.30
West Virginia . .. . ... . . . . . .... . ..... ..... . ... . .. .
84.00
Wisconsin ...................................... .
94.00
18.00
Wyoming ....•.........•................... .. ..•
57.50
25.00
Mississippi ..... .. .... ... ..... ...... ......... : ...
Missouri
Montana ~ : : ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ : ~ ~ ... . . ........ ' .. ........... .

~:: ~~c~. : :::

:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Oklah~~a·

Tennesse~

.

~

Total '· · • • · · ·: · · · · · · · · .~ ~ • • · · · ............... $15,912.52 $9,014.«'i

71

CASH RECEIV!lD FROM THE LOS ANG!lL!lS, CAL., CITY LODG!lS.
Los Angeles Lodge No. 42 ... . . ..... ..................... . .. $ 342.62
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202. .... . ..... . .................. . . .... . 480.96
Southern California Lodge No. 278 .. . ... .... ........ ....... . 634.08
East Gate Lodge No. 290. ... .. .. ...... ... ... .. ........... ... 488.70
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 ... .• . . ... . ........ . . .. . , . . . . . . . . . . 57U5
South Gate Lodge No. 3W...... . . . .... .......... .......... 611.18
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329.. ............. . .............
77.84
West Gate Lodge No. 335 ......'. . .. . . . .. .. . .. . . . .. . .. .. . . . . .. 359.82
Palestine Lodge No. l51..... .. . . . .. . . . • . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . 218.34
Sunset Lodge No. 352. . .... . .. .... .. . . . . . . . ... •. . . . . . . . . . . • • . 239.90
Golden State Lodge No. 358..... . ......... . ................ 282.92
Mizpah Lodge No. 378.. ........ . .................. .. ....... 32J.34
Highland Park Lodge No. 382 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 239.67
West Lake Lodge No. 392.. ................ . ..... ... .. . ... . 333.90
University Lodge No. 394... .. . ................ . ............ 100.lfl
Moneta Locige No. 405.. ....... . . . ...... .. . .. .. .... .. . . .. ... 174.26
San Pedro Lodge No. 332 .............................. ... . 124.Sfl
Wilmington Lodge No. 198.. ..................... ..... ... ...
50.34 .
Hollywood Lodge No. 355. .. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . .. .. 185.5'>
Arlington Lodge No. 414 . ... . .. .. ...... ... . , .. ..... .. ... . ...
66.22
Silver Trowel Lodge ~o. 415 ....... . . .......... . . ....... . .. .
n .lf>
Elysian LOOse No. 418 ...... , . . . .... . ,. .... ...... . . . ... .....
65.64i
T otal . . ...... . .. . . . ... . .. . ..... ....... , •..•... .. . . . •: . . $(),05.S.80
RECAPITULATION .
REC!lIPTS.
Balance, September 1, 1911. . .. . . . ............... $ 989.32
Receivied from Grand Lodge of California . . . . . . . . 3,000.00
Received from Los Angeles City Lodges. . . . . . . . . . 6,055.80
From Sister Jurisdictions .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,014.46
Interest and miscellaneous. ... ............. ... ..
104.81

·---- $19,164.39

Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

MSBUitSJlMJ!;NTS.
Expense account .. . ..... . ........... . ... ... ..... $ 2,847.42
Entpk>yment Bureatl . . . . • • • . . . . • . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . •
300.00
Classified by Jurisdictious •.... .• .-. . . . .. ...• • ••..• 15,912.52
Total .. ... . . .. .. .... ..... .......... .. . .. .. .
Balance September 1, 1912 .. . .......... .... . . .
AR of which is respectfnl!y submitted

$19,059.94
$ 104.45

J. H. BtAN, President.

'

Attest:
J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

.
72

-PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 01'' CALIFORNIA

The sum of $911.50, reported as refunded ·_by Lodges in California,

OAKLAND BOARD OF RELIEF.

w a ~ received as follows: ·

To tlie M.". w:: Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of . Relief of. Oakland herewith respectfully
presents . its annual report, from September 7, 1911, to September 4,
19l2, inclusiv:e.
1
•
The present officers have been elected to servie until the fir.st
Wednesday in January, 1913, and they are! . Charles Chubb, Chairman;
C. E. Powell, Treasurer; J. J. Warner, Secretary. .
·
·.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from September. 7,
1911, to September 4, 1912, inclusive, are as follows :
-'.

RJlCJlIPTS.

Liv:e Oak Lodge No. 61. ................ :: .... : .... $ 400.00
Oakland Lodge No. 188 ..................... , ..... , 373.15
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225.. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . . . .. . . .. .. 254.35
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244 . . ...... . ......... ... ....... 256.90
Sequoia Lodge No. 349 ............................ · 288.10
fruitvale Lodge No. 336 ...... . . ... ... .. .. .. ... ,.. 182.00
~ay View Lodge No. 401..... ............... ...... 145.50
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403 ........... ,., ... . . ; .,. 72.90 $1,972.90
fntercst on money deposited in bank .. . ... ..... ... . ... ... .. .
173.31
Refunded ·by Lodges in California ... ...... ..... ........... .
911.50
Refunded by Lodges in other Jurisdictions, .............. .
895.45 .
Refunded by Individuals ... .... ........................... .
267.73
Receiver o~ .California Bank .............. , .... ... ,. ....... .
.. 4.87

•

llarquinez Lodge N<:>, 33~. <:;r<:><;ke~t............................. • . · · · · .$ 25.00
fl,. q1 Diego Lodge No. 35, San Diego. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49.50
1"•1'11 Fernando Lodge No. 375, San Francisco...... ... ..... .... .. 60.00
aval Lodge No. 87, Vallejo ............................. ·· .. · 30.00
.hm Joaquin Lodge No. 19, Stockton ... .. ..... . ·.·. ............. 88.70
Wuhington Lodge No. 20, Sacramento ...........•........... ·:·. 177.50
Martinez Lodge _No. 41, Martinez............. .... ...... ..... . 50.00
Friendship Lodge No. 210, San Jose ...................... · · · · · · · 200.00
~anta Barbara Lodge No. 192, Santa Barbara ..... ... ......... . 120.00
<:alistoga Lodge N"o. 233, Calistoga ........... ·................ · 40.00
Olive Branch Lodge No. 269, Tulare ........ ·.. ..... ..... .. · ·. 5.80
l\odie Lodge No. 252, Bodie . .. ... ·................ ..... · ··· ·· · · · 5.00
Vuper Lodge No. 84, Red Bluff .... .. . ..... ....... . ........ . . . .... 10.00
Excelsior Ladge No. 223, Hawaiian Islands _(charter surrendered) 50.00

$911.50
The sum of $895.45, reported as refunded . by Lodges . in other
Jurisdictions, was received as follows :

:B~j~·nce in Treasury ·September ·s, 1912 ........ .,.............. ~. 4,747.11

Occidental Lodge No. 40, Ottawa, Ill ..... .. ................... $ 25.00
Capital City Lodge No. 312, Indianapolis, Ind ... .......... : . . 72.00
Centre Lodge No. 23, Indianapolis, Ind ....... ' ..•. ' ..... · . . . . . 40.00
South Park Lodge No. 662, Chicago, Ill . . ................ ...... . 1.• .... 4.30
Vesper Lodge No. 585, Galesburg, Ill. . : ......... : .... : ......._, · 30.00
Amity Lodge No. 4; Silver City, Nevada . ..... . . ..•. ...•. .....•. _143.75
St. Andrews Lodge No. 35, Renton, Wash .... ·...... .'.::: ..... : .. · 15.00
Central City Lodge No. 305, Syracuse, N. Y ........... : . : .. : . . . 225.00
Centennial Lodge No. 25, Snohomish, Wash, •...•...... . • .• : · · . 60.00
Shakespeare Lodge No._750, New York City, _N . Y .., .... ~.. i:.- •• : •., 25.00
Silver City Lodge No. 13, Silver City, Idaho .. : . .. ....• ' ..... ··.' . . 30.~
Sharon Lodge No. 250, Sharon, Pa........... ......... . ...... . 10.40
Magnolia Lodge No. 20; Columbus, Ohio. ·....... : . .......-..... ; . . 25.00
Coinmonwealth· Lodge No. 409, Brooklyn, N. Y . . :~ : . ... : . . . . . . 10.00
Willamette Lodge No. 2, Portland, Ore........ . ............... 40.00
Gate of. the Temple Lodge No ..... , Springfield, Mo...... .. .. 2.00
Denver Lodge No. 5, Denver, Colo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75.00
Guiding Star Lodge No. 565, New York City, N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23.00
Aberdeen Lodge No. 56, Aberdeen, Wash...................... 40.00

$8,530.89

$895.45

$4,225.76
Add Balance in. T.re~sury .Septe~_ber 7, . 19~ 1., ._ :; ..' . .. : , : . , : .. $4,~5.13
,'

,

,'

H

.";

Total · ava:llab!e_ funds dtiririg the :year : ........... : .. .:.... $8.~-~0.89
DISBURSJlMllNTS.

For the relief of needy -and . sick brethren. and burial., .. ;, ..•... $1,504.75
For the relief of needy.and sick widows and orphans ... , . .. : . .-: 1,440.95
Expense account .................•...•.•...... ; .......... ·. .'.: 838.08
°1'

"·

'

.

'

.

'

$3,783.78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA1'tJ LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The sum of $2,945.7-0, reported as disbursed for charity to brethren,
their widows and orphans, was distributed as follows :

During the period covered by this report, the following named
brethren have been buried with Masonic honor~, under the auspices
of this Board :

74

18 cases from California .................................... $1,023.25
1 case from Africa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3.85
2 cases from Colorado .........................•...........
64.40
2 cases from Iowa ............................•............ 126.25
1 case from Idaho .................................... _... ..
25.00
2 oases from Indiana ..................................... . 202.20
7 cases from Illinois ...................................... . 267.30
2 cases from Nevada .................................... , .. 383.75
1 case from Kentucky .................................•..•
27.70
1 case from Massachusetts ...... : ......................... .
2.50
1 case from Michigan ..................................... .
2.00
1 case from Missouri ............. : ................... : .. ..
2.50
1 case from Minnesota ..................................... .
3.00
1 case from Mississippi ................................... .
50.00
1 case from Maine ................................... ·...... .
4.25
1 case from Montana .............................. , ...... .
12.00
6 cases from New York ........•.......................... 344.35
1 case from Oregon ..•............•....•.......•.......•..
40.00
I case from Pennsylvania .....................•............
10.40
1 case from Ohio . .. . . . .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .... ..
12.20
1 case from T.exas ................ ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10.00
1 case from Virginia .................... , .............. : . ..
20.00
2 cases from Washington . .. . .. . . . . . . . ... . . .. . .. . . . . .. .. . .. 150.00
2 cases from Wyoming
20.00
Z cases from Australia .................•..................
40.00
2 cases from England ...................................... .
10.00
3 cases from Scotland ................ : . ...........•........
49.00
2 cases from Mexico ...... ., .. .............................. .
40.00
~

75

1911.
Sept. 14 Horatio Sanborn ....... Lodi Lodge No. 256 ....... Lodi, Cal.
Oct. 4 P. F. Casey ..........• Richland, 66, Richland Center, Wis.
Nov. 1 Jos. J. Ferrier .......... Guiding Star, 568, New York City
Dec. 1 Given R. Gore ......... Morganfield, No. 66, Morganfield, Ky.
Dec. 13 Geo. C. Stevens ........ Sharon Lodge No. 250, Sharon, Pa.
1912.
Jan. 4 Geo; D. Welch ......... Union Lodge, 58, Sacramento, Cal.
Jan. 31 A, M. Williams ........ Hills Ferry Lodge 236, Newman, Cal.
Feb. 7 Geo. Lutkey ...••••...•. Excelsior, 166, San Francisco, Cal
Feb. 8 Joel C. Pease .......... Parian Lodge No. lffi, Corina, Me.
Apr. 8 Harvey W. Randall. ..• Amity Lodge No. 4, Silver City, Nev.
July 5 J. T. Deggendorf ...... Mosaic Lodge 125, Dubuque, Iowa
July i7 Ralph B. Nickerson .... Tuo1umne Lodge No. 8, Sonora, Cal.
July 22 Herman Miller ........ Ft. Richardson, 320, Jacksboro, Tex.
Aug. 7 Chas. A. Benjamin .... City Lodge 408, New York City, N. Y.
Aug. 12 E. R. Stockton ......... Bellevue Lodge, 51, Bellevue, Ohio
Aug. 19 R. C. Weyer ........... Paso Robles, 286, Paso Robles, Cal
All of which is respectfully submitted.
C. CHUBB, Chairman.
Attest:
J. J. WARNER, Secretary.
BOARD OF RELIEF OF SAN DIEGO.
For the year ending September 30, 1912:
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand at last report ............................... $ 116.76
Grand Lodge grant ..................•.......•...•.•..•• ·- 600.00
Received from San Diego Loage No. 35, and Silver Gate
Lodge No. 296 ......................................... . 625.00
Receh•ed in refunds ............ : ... , ....................... . 390.00
Sundry receipts ............................................ .
uo

$2,945.7()

$1,733.26
DISBURSEMENTS.
,Salaries .......................................... $ 50.00
General expenses, printing, telegrams, etc..........
51.65
Relief ......... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,563.45

$1,665.IO
Balance on hand ........................................ $

68.16

77

GRAN°D -LOD<1E OF :cA.'.LIFORNIA
PRO.CEEDINGS OF THE

76

This Board has conducted eighteen funeral!; for sojourning
brethren who haye passed away in our city during the past year.
Owing to the ever increasing demands on the Board1 especially In
the way of a bureau of information, it has become necsessary to have
a secretary with an office at the Masonic Temple, who can give a ~e.rtain
poi:'.tiori of his time.. to the work,'. for ...which .he. will receive .a s~lary.
..
C~As, W . PA1frR1DGE, . S.ecr~tary.

SAN JOSE BO.A RD OF RELIEF.
·r o ' the M_
.'. w ..·. Gra,;!l Lodge of c~iifor~ia:
i
The ·san Jose Ma·sonic· Relief Committee begs to submit the · attached as its · report for the year, from October .1; 1911, to October
l , 1912 i· and asks 'for such relief as may seem just and proper to you. ..
··
'
··
. -' Respectfully,
'
1
·

FRANK H. Ross, Gbair~an.

'. GEO. T . -Ll!MON, Secret~ry. .
'fotal receipts _ ......... ·...... ..... .. ... .. " .•. ·.. . : ... . ' .......... $892.03- .
Total disbursements ... .. ,., •. ·: .. : . : ... .' .... .·..... ; . .' :·'..: . .'· ... 1 530.50
Total balance on hand ..... . . ............. .. .......... , .... $36f.33
.
.
On hand October 1, 1911. ........ ..................... ...... .. $335.28
Received from Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . 200.00
Received from outside Lodges :
Amity Lodge No. 5, Ohio ..... ; ... "., ................. $ 82.50
Capitol' Lodge .No. 66, Mieh:;.: .. ;::;. -: ...... :. -. . ; .. -. · S,00
Winnemucca ·Lodge ·N:O'. · 19; ·Nev ..•• .'.'.'.::::::••.• ; .•. .lOQ.00 ,
Kansas City u;dge No~ - 220. Kansas City,
·14iz{ .
! '

•

• • • . • • • • • • •

•

. •

- - .

Mo ..... :... , .

- ·-

•

.

'

•

.

-

.

.
,
• • $.j-29 75

Il~~~ived )rom individuals ... :.'.:......... _........... ·... · i:~

. ·'.

,,

.':· ..

Oliver Lodge No. 84, Alexandr.ia, La ..... ·..... : ..:.. .- ... . : .... . 25.oo
Winsor Castle Lodge No. 771, England . ................... ... . 1.00
Morning Star Lodge No. 68, Stockton ....................... .. 13.80
~5.00
l'ervantes Leid~~ :tof?· :5:, t~. ·:.
.'~".
,;i .. · t .. .•
Eaton .Falls Lodge No. 63, Mich ............................. . 1.00
1.00
Rochester Lodge -No. 89, Ind : ...• .. .. . . '' .. '.· .. :•. . ); '.·:<. : ~ . :..
11.15
I'1ilar Star Lodge No. 79, St. Louis, Mo ....... .. .. . ... . ....... .
Neptune Kilwinning Lodge No. 442, Scotland ................. 5.00
'Mich.;
.. -..
· · . .' .. :<•• .., 27.SO
C'apitol
Lodge of .S. 0:, No. 66; Lansing,
•
•
, • ~ t.. .~
•

,:.."...'.: .·,·.::,.. ". ,'.... ·

MISCJ!LLANEOUS.
Printing .............. · · : . .........• · · · · · · . · · · · · -. · · · · $ 4.'00
Relief too small · to list . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14.80
Typin~ . repwt to . I,odges ._ , ....... , .... . · · . • . • . . • . . . • 10.00
Funeral notices . ...... ....... . ........... · .. , .. · · · .,. · · 1.50
Telegrams , ... ....... . .......... . ... · • ..... : ..• · · · :; ".., i;75.
Care .of cen:ietery Jpts.,, , ,, .. . ..-: ·' · · '-·• ::i,, ·" h ,. " ..... · ~.00
.
.
.
. .
.' '
.'/ "100
T ypemg report .••... • •............ ·• · · · · · · ·' · · · · · · · · · · · · .
Stamps ." ..... : ...... : .... ·: . . .' .... : ......... : . .' :, . ....
.' · 1.(X'., .f $ ~6.0~
··. .
;'• :
~.

iS.30.SO

Total disbursements .. ....... .... . .. ....... , ...,..,.... , 1•• •... .
.
•...
.
•

· 27:00

. · 'robH receipts .... ....... .. .............. .. ................ $892.03

..

l•1 1ngelist Lodge No.~· '.~-~~.1 .Y9r~'. ~. Y,.. ·I': :;:: ·:····,·:".·"$ 3.~
\ mlty Lodge No. 5 Ohio ................................ ,... 82.
\\ lnncmu~ca Lodg;e 'N ~~ :l9, -~W~r¥rii~Jci~· '~t~~:;)" .1• '.· •••, •• ~; •• ·~ • 200. lQ
1, 11nsas City Lodge No. 220, Kansas City-, Mo . .... .. ....... ... . 66.50
5.00
M1xico .. .... .. .. . . . .... .... ......_... ........ . .. ....... · ·· ·
W11tanga Lodge No. 622, ·Tenn .. ... ,.., . . •.· ·· ... ·· · .. :.-'·'· 1 • • • • 6.4Q
1ieorgia Lodg.e N ~.: 9, · Geo~~i~,.: :.. ... .,... ; ........... •......... : i.00
thilnt John. L~dge No. 27., Bathhitrst, New· Brunswick.' ......-. .. .• 1.00

~

,

t

•

ik

•

,

)

I

~

:·

78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SACRAMENTO BqARD OF RELIEF.
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:

The Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief begs to submit th~ fol.
lowing as its report for the year ending October 1, 1912:
RECEIPTS

Contributed by lodges of Sacramento ........................ $ 856.00
Refunded by lodges in California .. : ............. . ..... .. ... . 448.70
Refunded by lodges in other jurisdictions ............•........ 476.80
Refunded by Individuals ...................•.........•...... 169.40
Donation by Grand Lodge Session, 1911 .............• : . .•.... 500.00
Total receipts ................ . .......................... $2,450.90
Add balance in treasury, October 1, 1911..... .... . .. ... .... 41 t.54
Total available funds during year ...•.......•.... -. ...... $2,862.44
DISBURSEMENTS

For relief of needy and sick brethren and burial. ........... $1,487.63
For relief of needy and sick wives, widows and orphans . ... 892.45
Expense for Secretary, stationery, postage, telegraphing, etc.. 119.21
To.ta! disbursements ........ . ......... . .. ..... . ... ..... ... $2,499.29
Balance in treasury, October 1, 1912.......................... 363.15
Total ................. .. ..... . ...... •.................. $2,862.44
The sum of $2,380.08, reported as disbursed for charity to brethren, their wives, widows and orphans, was distributed as follows:
Members and wards of California lodges .. . ...... . ........ . .. $ 467.05
Members and wards of lodges in other jurisdictions ........... 1,913.03
During the year covered by this report the following.named
brethren were buried with Masonic Honors, under the auspices of this
Board:
J. C. H. Fitz, Perfect Ashlar Lodge No. 12, Bisbee, Arizona.
Pleasant Henderson Clarke, Laurel Lodge No. 245, Willows, Cal.
Guy T. Dunbar, Ashland Lodge No. 23, Ashland, Oregon.
A. T. Clippinger, Wadsworh Lodge No. 25, Sparks, Nevada.
]AM1's

F. LYON, Secretary.

W. E. APPLIIToN, President.

All which were referred to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGI!J OF CALIJ:<'OitNIA

79

Past Grand Master William S. Wells, President of the
Board of Trustees of the Masoi:ic Homes of California, preiented a report of the stewardship of the Board for the past
} ear, as follows:

To TH1' M.". W:. GRAND LoooE oF CAtIF01tNIA :
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith submits for your consideration and approval its annual report · for
the yea.r ending August 31, 1912.
The M.". w:. Grand Master having appointed W.". Elmer E. Stone
to the vacancy caused by the expiration of his term, the Board held its
annual meeting at the office of the Grand Secretary on October 14, 1911,
re-elected William S. Wells President, Motley H. Flint Vice-President
and Elmer E. Stone Secretary, and has during the year held regular and
1pccial meetings at both Decoto and San Gabriel. Reports of the Superintendent and Secretary and accountants arc made a part of this
report and show in detail the financial and general condition of both
Homes.
The improvements made at Decoto consist of remodeling the old
laundry building, making it into a comfortable five-room cottage for
the farm help; the painting of roofs and outbuildings, fences and stairways, and making of a croquet ground for outdoor exercise and the
usual necessary repairs and improvements to fences and buildings.
The improvements made at San Gabriel consist of painting the entire exterior of the building, the dormitory ftoors, remodeling of the
kitchen and changing all outside •entrances to make them suitable for
the use of the children. A plant for the sanitary disposal of sewage
has been installed, and grading of grounds to straighten the course
of a wash which threatened much damage last winter. The Board made
n most fortunate exchange of properties in transferring the property
listed in our last report as "Hadley lots" and securing approximately two
and one-half acres adjoining the Home, which through the kindness of
the Scottish Rite Bodies of Los Angeles are now being improved with
play-ground equipment. This ground was stony and sandy, but ":'hen
grading was done, with heavy soil covering it, it packed well and
proved particularly valuable for the purpose. From a real estate point
of view it is worth three times its cost, although we inventory it at
the cost figure. The general grounds have been much improved the
past year through the constant care of Brother Bettes, many of the
new plants and ftowers being propagated by himself in our own
green-house.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE Oli' CALIFORNIA

~Hlt will be necessary. to replant ou'r family. orchard, rebuild some of
OJ.tfc w~ll<:s, · steps and bridge$, to erect a sh~d for our wagons and

11 careful investigation of the Springs and employed a well boring
outfit and put in a number of test holes at each Spring, going down
In one instance sixty feet without developing any additional water or
meeting with any encouragement, and we are convinced that the flow
from these springs can not be increased to .give us sufficient water
&nd that in the future we can not depend u~on them. In fact, ever
11lnce the Home has been in operation the water supply has been a
11nurce of great annoyance and there has been no summer but that
we have had to conserve the wat·er and watch it very carefully, using
none for our lawns, gardens, flowers and irrigating purposes. We
have been without fire protection by reason of this fact summer after
1ummer, and the Board is now having a well sunk In the flat nea•r
the barns, and if not successful in getting artesian water there, we
1hall bore on the flat in front and near the county road and continue until we meet with some success; and if necessary go out and
buy land where we know wie ca.n get water and put in a well which will
1upply our wants. This, of course, will require the erection of a pumping plant, and we plan that . if such be done that we may have to
wnsolidate our heating with our pumping system for economy's sakt,
which will necessitate the putting in of an entirely new plant, as the
present one is not adequate for pumping purposes, or for any additional
burdens imposed by the erection of new buildings. We can givie no
estimate at this time as to what this cost will be, because we do not
know where we will get the water, but we think that the Grand Lodge
1hould authorize the Grand Master to draw his warrant on the general
fund for such amount as may be necessary for its installation when the
water is developed and we require it.

80

f~f,iii implements; to put. nc::~ undeq~inl!ing m so_m~. of ..the cottages
and ;outbuiidings. to erect an ice house for the pre~e~vahon ~f ll)eats,
and other provi~ions ; and to clean and . tint the . walls of some .of
the buildings at Decot;0. The .dining rOOil1 at!d hall> a~ .San ;G!J..bra:I
will have to be .covered with linoleum, .the c~rpets .havmg worn . out,
3'.il'd :certaiii ·6£ tli:e old furriiture ·wm ~ave n>_be!replaced'. ·
, •

Our ~o~ms ~t Decot~ have beeP alJ :()cc~P,ied se~e_r~i, times d~ring
the ye~.r, and w.e . .nqw __ ha~~ _ every availalJl,e t roo.~ .in. u~e:. ,P.?:d have
iH~~ge~ ·tt> 'double !:1e ·wr~ev,erat · of the ta~ge :rqo_tn~ •.on ·t~~ -th1;d. .~10?~

~~ep: n~~es~ary. . " . '. . ·..
. . ":, : ...,; . '' ·.. . ' . . .
.
·. 'i'iie .matt~~ ~f :a~ciitiona~ dor~\tor,!es . l\t .~wt<?:. s~b.m~tt~d ~to .t:ts by

th~: Gran4 Lodge at. lts last Annua~ Cop:m:iµpic~tjo~ has had our ~are~ul
~nsid~~tiop,' and w~r i:eaiize
~obe a s~riolll! .q11es~ion involving al)
future ·improvements, and we thinkj ~ gel}era.l. i>l.a n should be _a d_o pted
which would be required
be ·followed. in, the_ future, and we . r~om~
mend · as suc'h generai" pla·n,... the details of which to be worked ~ut
heread'ter that buildings be erected on each: side of the present ad.m mistral:ion 'building, each about riinety feet in length, t~o. storie~ and a
basement high, with twenty-eight rooms · to the bu1ldmg, ~1t? sun
porche's, toilets and baths, S() planned that wi~gs can be bm~t m th_e
rear· These buildings would cost in the ne1ghborhooa of Twenty
Tho~saf!d (20,000) Dollars each. When · the "cottages have: to be
condemned, a tW'Q-story dormitory building.·to.;be erected, coveri?g. the
s-a~e ;g~ound and containing many more ro9ms. All these buildings
to; be modern, fiTeproof buildings, to conform g:enerally to the pr·~sent
m~in building, without the. expensive. detail of such; and to be e1t~er
of. '~oncr~te, brick or brick-~aced. This will provid,e. for a set o.f bu1~d­
h.igs to be erected one ~t il .time as rrequire~, ,tilat will harmonize with
ttie p~~ent. administi:a9f>n '. bu_ilding, . a~ will. g_ive ~mple roo'!1 · for
y•eiJ.rs to come. The C?!anel. -.Lodge must . ~ei;is~d~r this matte~ 1i;i the
making: 0 f, other approp!~atio11s, ~or ther~ :1$: 11ow necessity for
t~ ianprovementJ and ~ w,e. ~~c9mmi:~~ . that .such a suni as the Gran.~
0?(ige · d.esir-es {o. eJfp.e~d ,.a t fi,rs~,, .!lot less tha~ $20,000, be now set
il.Side:;to. be' kept until~ sµ1* _tilll,e .as _the Boa!d ._ adopts ,plans, then .to
be turned cwc;r. to th.em when spch .plans ,haye the approva,l of the
Gran<:l Mast~r.; · .
·
--.
. .·
. • 'we" h~~e suffered with '.otbers from the dry season and .practicallJ
f;oni ·the· 1st of June·:we have been:·Without water •in our reservoirs,
At one time it wa..S · down ; to ten faehes. · All toilets, 'bath tubs;. wash
basins, faucets, except in the kitchen, have been shut off, and tt' has
been necessary to haul water for all household purposes. We made

ii

to

81 ·

The vineyard and orchard are virtually producing nothing this
year on account of the dry season. The vineyard is deteriorating and
we fear that it will be necessary to take it up entirely, as it does
not pay for the labor expended on it. A new orchard will have to
be set out to provide for the future needs of the Home. We have
some two hundred and sixty-eight (268) acres of land in our tract,
much too large for our needs, and it is the opinion of the Board .that
it would be well to dispose of a portion of it, say the westerly end,
where the vineyard now is, and use the money for other purposes.
We could dispose of an hundred acre strip on the westerly end without injury to the balance of the property, leaving ample for all future
requirements, and we recommend the authorization for the Board to
sell when in their judgment the time and price justifies.
The general health of the residents has been good. While the
deaths have been on the increase it is owing to old age and general
natural conditions. We have had no epidemics of sickness at Decoto

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and nothing out of 'the ordinary afflictions · which come to people of
the age we have there.
·Lodges a~d members ~f the. fraternity have shown much in.terest
in the Home and have done much to make the lives of t.he residents
pleasant and happy, and . we want to thank the fraternity and our
friends for. this kindly interest.
We desire to express our sincere thanks to all of those. who so
kindly contributed to our Christmas fund and .~ade d~nattons and
gifts and to those who have entertained our families durmg the rear. .
The' efforts and la.h ors of the Superintendent and matrons have been .
appreciated and they have done everything in their power to make
our burdens light and the homes happy ones.
We recommend that the usu~! per capita tax of One (I) Dollar
be levied, and that ther.e 'be appropriated out of the gen~ral fund th~
sum of Five Thousand (5,000) DoUairs for permanent 1mprovem~nt~
at San Gabriel and Decoto, and that the Grand Master be authorized
to draw his warrant out of the general f~nd for such. sum as may .be.
necessary for the installation of the pumping and hea.t mg plant, engme
anri boiler house when our water supply is assured.
Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM S. WELLS,
MOTLEY H . FLINT,
ELMER E. STONE,
EDWARD B. SPENCER,
THOS. FLINT.

UilAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

SECRI!TARY'S REPORT.
San Francisco, California, September 26, 1912.

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California :
Brethren : Here~ith I submit my annual report as your Secretary
for the year ended August 31, 1912, making the report of the accountants my financial report.
Fraternally yours,
El.MER . E. STD.Nil,

Secretary.
San Fra~cisco, California, September 26, 1912.

To the B oard of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California.: ·
Gentlemen: We ha:v.e ·audited the accounts of the Masonic Homes
of California for the year ended August 31, 1912, and following upon
our last similar audit, and ·have presented our complete report thereof,
embracing stla temeflts exhibiting in full detail the financial position and
financial operations of the Homes to the date of August 31, 1912.
We now present herewith abstracts from the said complete report,
embracing balance- sheet as at August 31, 1912, statement showing
the increases in the funds during the year as appears by the said balance sheet and including the general income and expenditure account, and also statement of the total cash receipts and disbursements
for th.e year, which we certify to be prepared properly from the accounts as shown by the books.
We have verified tl'e income from reports submitted by the Superintendent; the expenditure by examination of properly approved vouchers, accompanied by supporting invoices or other documents, and the
funds on deposit in banks by examinatjon of bank sta.tements. We
hav.e not verified the securities or cash of the Permanent Endowment
Fund, the Decoto and San Gaibriel Revolving Funds or the Cas'h Ac·ount of F. B. Hartman, Trustee.
We are, gentlemen, faithfully yours,
L:ESTER, H:ERRICK & H:ERRICK,

Certified Public Accountal1ts.

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA,

ANALYSIS

DECOTO AND SAN GABRIEL, CALIFORNIA.

OF

CAPITAL

INCREASES

IN

YEAR

ENDED AUGUST

85

31, 1912,

INCLUDING INCOME AND J!XPENDITURE ACCOUNT AS
PER BALANCt SHUT.

General Balance Sheet, .August 31, 1912.

General Fund Capital
$ 1,842.22
Contribution from operating fund, constituting
increase investment .. ... ·. ........ ... . ....... . .$ 1,842.22
Permanent Endowment Fund ................... .
1,362.25
Interest on bonds and deposits . . . . ......... .. .... $ 1,412.25
J,ess amortization of bond premium...... . .......
50.00
Balance ... ...... ..... ..... . ................ $ 1,362.25

ASSETS.

Cash: Sundry funds .. ........ ..... . ... . ..... $ 29,183.12
Funeral Expense Account.: Due from sundry
Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
149.50
Permanent Endowment Fund: Securities, accrued interest and cash...... . ............... 33,297.86
Supply and Sundry F.quipment Inventories .. .... 9,249.00
Decoto Real Estate, Improvements and Equipment . . ............... . ....... . ............ 251,742.94
San Gabriel Real Estate, Improvements and
Equipment .................. ·............. . 70,300.00
1,900.00
Real Estate Investments .... . .. . ....... .... . .
1,400.00
Deferred Charge to Operation .. . ...... ....... . .
San Gabriel insurance unexpired.

neneral Fund operating ........ . ........... . ... .

$ 7,520.62

Contribution from Grand Lodge .... . ........ . .... $ 7,500.00
Per ca1pita tax ..... ... . ............ .. .. .. ...... 46,096.51
Donations and contributions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,325.38
Farm produce . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,711.05
Interest .
922.14

$397,222.42 .
LIABILITIES.

$60,555.(l!
LESS.

Vouchers Paya.hie .......... . ................. $ 5,820.73
630.50
Residents' Personal Deposits ....... .... ... ... .
Special Rule No. 16 Fund . ............... .. . . . 3,981.40
Head Stone Fund ...... . ..... . ... . ....... . . .. .
560.00
Entertainment Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . .
1,890.58
Capital · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384,339.21

Decoto Home operation .............. $29,710.16
San Gabriel operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,482.48
General expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,413.10
San Gabriel, special repairs . .. : ... : . . . . 2,500.00

51,105.74
9,449.34

$397,222.42
General Fund, Aug. 31, 1911. ............................. . $330,848.72
Increase in year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,842.22
Permanent Endowment, Aug. 31, 1911. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31,935.61
Increase in y>ear . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,362.25
Operating, Aug. 31, 1911... .... ........................ . .. 10,829.7!)
Increase in year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,520.62

LESS.

Contribution to general capital. .. ..... $ 1,842.22
Adjustment funeral and headstone ac86.50
counts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . .

1,928.72
Balance ...... . .................................. . ..... $ 7,520.62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

GENERAL STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS.

SUPERINTENDENT'S REPORT.

September 1, 1911, to August 31, 1912.
Balance on hand September 1, 1911. . ........ . ..... ·, . . .. . . $16,006.46
General Fund .................. .. ........... . ... $10,829.79
Permanent Endowment Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
904.40
Special Rul·e No. 16 Fund .. ..... .. ............... 2,181.40
Entertainment Fund .. ....... .. .......... , . . . . . . 1,330.77
Residents' Deposit Fund . . .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
434.10
Headstone Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
320.00
Receipts . .... ... ... . .... .. .... ..... .. ... .. ... ...... .... .
General Fund ....... . . . ...... ... .... ...... .... .. $68,258.83
Special Rule No. 16 Fund ... ........ . ...... . . . ... · 1,848.00
Entertainment Fund ..... . ... . . ... ... ... .. .. ... :
928.26
Residents' Depo5it Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
572.60
Headstone Fund ........... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
240.CO

Disbursements · .. .. .... .. ... ...... ... . . .. . ..... .. .. ... .. . .
General. Fund . . ........ ..... .. ....... .... . . .. ... $62,288.71
Permanent Endowment Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
904.40
Special Rule No. 16 Fund........ . .... .... . .... ..
48.00
Entertainment Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
374.45
Residents' Deposit Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
376.20

71,847.69

. $87,854.15
63,991.76

Balance on hand August 31, 1912 . .. ... . ... . . .. .. . ... .... . . $23,862.39
General Fund . ...... ... ......... . . ........ . .. ... $16,799.91
Special Rule No. 16 Fund. . . . . . .. . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . 3,981.40
Entertainment Fund .. ...... .. .. ; ...... .. , . . . . . . . 1,8<iJ().58
Inmates' Deposit Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
630.50
Head Stone Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
560.00
Disposition . . ... ........ . ..... ... . . .. .. . . .. . .......... . .
Balance with Grand Treasurer . ... ... .. . ... ... .. . $24,488.66
Crocker National Bank. .. . ... . . .. . .. . . . ... ... . . . . 2,313.96
Revolving Funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,750.00
Residents' Deposit Bank Account .-... .... ... .... ..
630.50
Total as per Balance Sheet . .... .. . ... .. ... ....... $29,183.12
Add real estate, sale pending account Rule No.
16 Fund ..... . . ... .. .'. . . . . . . . . . ... . ... . . . . ... . . . .
500.00
J;,es.s checks '01.1tsfaiiding (vouchers payable) . . . . . . .

$29,683.12
5,820.73

23,862.39

Decoto, Alameda County, Cal., September 1, 1912.
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California :

Brethren: The undersigned presents the fourteenth annual report
ns Superintendent of the Masonic Homes of California,
During the past year the work at the Decoto and San Gabriel
Homes has been carried on along the same lines as previously. Many
changes in the details of management ha-..:e been made to secure a
higher standard of service in the several departments to the end
that while those who are no longer active will enjoy the peace and
comfort that only a home can give. The younger wards of the fraternity are being carefully prepared for the responsible duties of
life. All are encouraged to render assistance however small it may
be for the well being of the homes, and the families at both homes are
loyally assisting the efforts made by the fraternity for their care and
protection. A good spirit prevails and every effort is being made to
realize the ideals for which the home stands. A further development
of the social side of the family life has been made this year. Recrear
tion grounds have been provided with proper equipment which furnish
wholesome outside exercis'e for all who are able to enjoy them. The
reading tables have been well supplied with daily papers and maga.zines and several donations of books have been placed on the library
shelves.
There are now at the Decoto home sev·enty-one men and thirtysix women. Every room is now occupied and admission from now
on can only be made as vacancies occur. The urgent need for additional room to accommodate those now on the waiting list is respectfully presented for your consideration. During the past fiscal year
there have been nineteen admissions and twelve deaths.
The generous gift · of Islam Temple A. A. 0 . N . M. S. in presenting to the Home an up-to-date moving picture machine with a
stereopticon attachment marks an important advance in the social side
of our family life. It has been permanently installed ·in the organ
loft of Siminoff Temple, and we are now able to give weekly entertainments of moving pictures and with the stereopticon illustrated
songs and lectures can be given. They are not only entertaining but
educational in their influence. The films and slides are easily obta.ined
of great variety and will be a continual source of pleasure to the
residents. Salinas Lodge No. 204 kindly furnished the curtain, ropes,
tools and slides which complete the moving picture equipment.

89

PROCEEDINGS OF '.rHE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A croquet and quoit ground has been also provided, together with
croquet and quoit sds, the gift of Occidental Lodge No. 22.
The carpenter shop has in addition to minor improvements and
general repairs made several pieces of furniture, among which are two
large music recor!l cabinets, six dressers, two bookcases and twenty- .
five ta hies.
The roofs of all the buildings and reservoirs have been put in
repair and painted ; the fence fronting the home, about a mile in
length has been painted, also all posts and benches on the grounds.·
The barn a.nd employees' cottage have been painted, and the interior
of the stables, dairy barn, chicken and hog ranch has been whitewashed. The laundry building has been remodeled and repaired a,,d
is now used as a cottage for employees. A tailor shop has been
opened up in the annex where men's clothing can be cleaned and
pressed.
The residents are encouraged to assist in the routine work of the ·
home. The spirit of service so far shown has made it possible to
operate the shoe shop, tailor shop, work the chicken and hog ranch,
vegetable garden · and carpenter shop. The mending of household linen
and making of table cloths, sheets, etc., is done by the valuable help
of the ladies, and with their assistance twenty-four hundred quarts
of fruit have been preirerved and are now stored in the fruit room for
winter use.
Owing to the scarcity of rain last winer, the Home springs failed
to give the usual supply of water. It has been necessary to haul wa,t er·
for general use ; the small supply of the springs has been conserved
for special household purposes.
The returns of the orchards and vineyard, also the ve11:etable garden, have not been good this year, and the walks, flower beds, roads,
etc.... have been given but little · attention on account of the dry season.
All holidays have been observed in keeping with the day and in
the usual manner; Memorial Day with exercises at the Home after
which the Home plot in the cemetery was visited and floral tributes
placed upon all graves.
During the year entertainments consisting of musicals, vaudeville
and moving pictures have been given by individuals, lodges and members of lodges with their. ladies, all of which have been much enjoyed and aippreciated by all. The following is a list of those so
entertaining : Prof. H . B. Pasmore and the Pasmore Sisters ; Sequoia
Lodge No. 349 ; members of Sequoia Lodge No. 349 ·with their ladies;
members of Oakland 'Lodge No. 188 with their ladies; members of
Golden Gate Lodge No. 30 with their ladies; quartet from student~
of H. B. Pasmore; San Francisco Normal School Glee Club; Mr.

l i W. Perdy and five members of "Hizz Fun Makers;" J ewe! Lodgr
No. 374 and Jewel Chapter No. 238 0. E. S., with band of thirtJ
pieces under the leadership of Prof. Cassassa; members of Occidental
l,odge No. 22 with their ladies. In addition to these there have been
many little entertainments among the residents of the Home, the men
1ntertaining the ladies in their club room and card parties given by
the !~dies in the assembly room, etc.

88

SAN GABRIEL.
Our home for the orphans at San Gabriel grows in interest with
the fraternity as each year develops new features in the care and
training of our little men and women. Partly through heritage, of
course, these children are refined in manner and bright in mental
and physical action, but the comfortable surroundings and daily influfnce and discipline the Masons of California provide for them in
this home will mold their lives fot tnuch greater future usefulness.
N cw children received soon adapt themselves to the atmosphere of
the home so that little interrui>tion of any kind disturbs the real
fireside relationship of this large but happy family.
The health of the children is now perfect, the hospital rooms in
each dormitory are the least used of any in the building. In all
cases of epidemic careful quarantine rules were adopted for the time
nnd all means of prevention exercised. At the time infantile paralysis
was threatened, we closed the Home to visitors for about three weeks
as a matter of precaution. No case reached the Home. The only
other contagion met was diphtheria, which brought us four cases, and
mumps kept several pairs of jaws quiet for a while last spring. We
must report one death, the first to come to our family. Little Leonard
Stone, aged four years, was afflicted with a: throat trouble and unfortunately was one of those taken with diphtheria. The same treatment was given him as the others, but the complication of the throat
trouble and the diphtheria was too much for him to master.
The number of visits of Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters were
greater this year. · The children enjoyed the visits and delighted to
furnish some little program on these occasions. New drills by boys
and girls were given, new songs prepared, and the music haa. shown
1plendid progress.
All holidays have been suitably observed with exercises appropriate
to the occasion. The Christmas exercises held in the assembly room
on December 25 were particularly interesting. The decorations made
by the children were exceptionally beautiful. The generous fund subscribed by the several lodges made this occasion the best of any holiday season that we had experienced. A number of local Lodges at
Christmas added some special features to the program.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND. LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The visitations and entertainments deserving particular mention
are as follows: Members of Acacia Chapter 0 . E. S., Alhambra
Lodge No. 322, Alhambra Chapter 0. E. S., Board of Relief of Los
Angeles, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 0. E. S., Gardenia Lodge No.
372 and Eastern Star Chapter, and on July 18 Southern California No.'
278 took all the children of the Home to the beaches in automobiles,
and through the influence of the members of Ocean Park No'. 369
and Santa Monica Lodge No. 307, free access was given to all concessions in those places. The children also have had an automobile
trip t<> East Lake Park, provided by Alhambra Commandery K. 1'.:
and they visited Los Angeles and witnessed the Shriners' parade, and
the usual celebrations were had on Thanksgiving, Fourth of July,
May Day and St. Valentine's Day.•
Most Worshipful Grand Maste·r Alonzo J. Monroe and officers
of the Grand Lodge have made several visits to both Decoto and San
Gabriel, and also many of the brethren and friends and have left
pleasant memories of their visits with us.
I wish to express my appreciation cif the loyal assistance rendered
by the matrons who in meeting the varied problems in the home life
have brought to their work an influence which has in no small measure
shaped and molded the moral and spjritual strength of our family life.

package of clothing and. six !rage bunting flags; H. H. Barnes, package magazines; Porterville Lodge No: 300, seven boxes of orang·es
and one box of lemons; W. H. Grant, box of oranges; Alex Rausch,
book; S. P .. Dobbins, seven volumes Mackey's History of Free .Masonry; W. H. Dick, box of clothing, u_nderwear, etc.; W. S. A., box
of clothing, underwear, etc.; E. Carl Bank, paper file rack; A. W.
Baker, package of magazines; W. T. Machen, thirty volumes of
Balzac ; C. E. Jackson, oil painting; John Whicher, framed picture
and package of magazines; S. Jeffers, books ; E. M. Bransford, magazines and periodicals:· L. M. Hawthorne, four years' subscription to
the San Francisco Chronicle; R. C. Thompson, one year's subscription to the San Francisco Chronicle; one year's subscription to each
of the following papers : San Francisco Examiner, San Francisco
Chronicle, Oakland Enquirer, Tribune, Sacramento Union, San Jose
Mercury, Fresno Republic~n, Boston Christian Scientist, Niles Washington Pre.ss, Niles Township Register, Los Gatos Mail, Madera Weekly
Tribune, Los Angeles Free Mason, Trestle Board, Haywards Journal,
T he Grizzly Bea.r, Petaluma Weekly Poultry Journal and Pacific Rural
Press.

90

Fraternally submitted,
FRANK B. HARTMAN,
Superintendent.
DONATIONS TO DECOTO HOME.
Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. S., moving picture machine with
stereopticon attachment complete; Salinas Lodge No. 204, curtain,
ropes, tools and supplies for moving picture machine i Golden Gate
Lodge No. 30, three large bunting flags; J ewe! Lodge No. 374, large
framed picture ; J ewe! Chapter 0. E. S., framed picture; Live Oak
Lodge No. 61, books; Oakland Lodges F . & A. M., box of books
and magazines; Ladies' Auxiliary Berkeley Commandery K. T., thirtyseven pairs of bedroom slippers; Ladies' Club of Santa Cruz Commandery, thirty-seven white aprons; Sequoia Lodge No. 349, records
for piano player, and cigars; Occidental Lodge No. 22, croquet and
quoit sets; Edward F. Hughes, two hat racks; James H. McLafferty,
framed picture and package of magazines; Phil Marx, thirteen paper
and eight magazine files .; A. Goodman, package of clothing; Emma
S. Rugg, two ear trumpets; S. P. Elias, box of underwear; Edmund
J. Overend, twenty-five volumes Encyclopedia Brittanica.; Samuel W.
Smith, two boxes candy; A. P . Stanton, books and box of apples;
H. W. Emerson, M. D., package of magazines; Fred L. Hanson,

91

DONATIONS AT SAN GABRIEL.
Alhambra Lodge No-. 322, ice cream and cake, two boxes apples,
cakes, Easter eggs and Easter cakes . for each ·child; Mrs. Charles
Prochazka, one hundred. pound cake for Christmas and large Easter
cake •embossed with sugar lil.ies; Eastern Star Chapter at Hanford,
Christmas box containing' present for each child; Troy Laundry at
Pasa.dena, box apples and $5.00 for fire works; McStay Brothers,
thirty pounds · of candy; Gardenia Chapter 0 . E. S., fifty-seven quarts
of canned fruit; Alhambra Commandery K. T., box containing foot
balls, baseball bats, etc., for boys; Brother Ranney of Pasadena, one
dozen volumes of books; Mr. McCloud, San Gabriel, sack of walnuts;
Azusa Chapter 0. E. S., sixty-five pounds home-made candy; Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 and Eastern Star Chapter No. 248, rugs, books,
magazines and pictures; B. N. Powers of· Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319,
rugs and books; B,rother William Rogers of Hollenbeck Lodge No.
319, thirty volumes of Dickens and miscellaneous books; Brother
Freeman of Pasadena, books; Southgate Court of Amaranth, Christmas tree; Hollywood Chapter 0. E. S., one dozen night gowns;
Golden State Lodge No. 358, phonograph records; University Lodge
No. 394, phonograph record&; March class Scottish Rites bodies,
$100.00 for grading boys' play grounds; Al Malaikah Shrine, eatables from ceremonial session and cakes (two donations); Austin
Bakery of Pasadena, thirty-five pound box fancy cakes; Sunset Chapter No. 216 0 . E. S., eighteen gowns; Mr. and Mrs. Charles Eckert,
Buffalo, N. Y., $5.00 cash; Islam Temple Shrine of San Francisco,

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

seven cases of Shasta water; R ] . Busch, use of store room window
on Broadway for children to witness floral parade during Shrine
Conclave; Henry Schwartz, pennants and novelties; B. S. Walsh,
package of souvenir postal cards; Hollywood Chapter No. 200 0. E. S.,
aprons for girls; Sunset Chapter No. 216 0. E. S., eighteen gowns
and twenty-one aprons ; Master Frank H. Wiegand, locomotive coaster;
James T. Quarels, St. Louis, Mo., check for $2.00; Harris and Hillebrand, three sacks rice, two sacks beans; members of Hollenbeck
Lodge No. 319, large number of magazines; J. M. Dunsmoor, large
number of magazines; Brother Thorndyke of Pasadena, box of plums;
H. H. Eling, Manager of A. G. Spaulding and Brothers, indoor baseball and bats ; Herbert L. Cornish, $20.00 cash; Los Angeles Soot.
tish Rites Bodies, $300.00 cash for playground equipment.
Special mention must be made here of. the thoughtful and conscientious interest shown by Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor. The high standard
of health among the children is due largely to his watchfulness of
every sanitary condition and prompt action in cases of contagion.
We desire to express our sincerest gratitude also. to Dr. Nannie C.
Dunsmoor and Dr. Frank D. Bullard, who, with Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor, ·
operated upon a number of the children for adenoids and · enlarged
tonsils. They were assisted by Robert Dunsmoor, a senior medical
student, an~ Mrs. Harriet Warfield and Miss D. Renney, who volun·
· teered their services as nurses.
Mrs. Ola Taylor by her frequent visits at the home and her ready
and willing assistance in emergency and her cheery and hearty participation on all occasions with the children has endeared herself to
them by most affectionate ties. She is loved by all and brings more
sunshine in the home than any other visitor on our register.
We desire to acknowledge the faithfulness and interest displayed
by Miss E. L. Olcott and Mrs. Lela Buckham, who are practically
donating .their services in the musical instruction of the children. They
accept little more than their expenses of the trip to the Home, but
have rendered a most valuable service in this important and most
delightful branch of our Home work for the children.
CHRISTMAS DONATIONS, 1911.
Lodge.
No. · Amt.
Abell .............. 146 .... $10.00
Adin ............... 250.. . . 5.00
Alamo . ..... .. .... . 122 . . . . 5.00
Alameda ... . .. .. ... 167 . ... 5.00
Alcatraz .. . .. . , ..... 244 .. . . 10.00
Alturas ... .... ..... 248.... 5.00

Lodge.
No. Amt.
Amity .............. 370 . .. . 15.00
Amador . . . . . . . . . .. . 65.. . . 10.00
Antioch ......... . . . 175. . . . 10.00
Apollo .......... ... 396 .... 10.00
Artesia ... .. . .. .... 377. . . . 10.00
Arlington ......... .414 .... 15.00

GRAND LODGE O.r:<' CALIFORNIA

93

Lodge.
No. Amt.
Lodge.
No. Amt.
Bakersfield
.224 ... . 25.00 Friendship . ........ 210 .... 10.00
Bay View .... . .. .. .. 401. . . . 10.00 Fruitvale .......... 336 .... 10.00
Bear Mountain .. . .. . 76.... 5.00 Galt ............... 267.... 5.00
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5. . . . 10.00 Gardena ............ 372. . .. 2.50
Berkeley ........... 363 ... . 10.00 Golden Gat~ ....... 30 .... 20.00
Brooklyn .........·. 225. . . . 10.00 . Gold Hill .......... 32 .... 10.00
Buckeye ........... 195. .. . 25.00 Hawaiian .......... 21. ... 50.00
Buena Park ......... 357.. .. 5.00 Henry Clay. . . . . . • . . 95. . . . 5.00
Burlingame ........ 400 .•.. 10.00 Hermann . . ........ 127 ... . 15.00
California . . . . . . . . . . 1. . . . 32.50 Hesperian ......... 264 .• • • 10.00
Calaveras ........... 78 .... 10.00 Highland Park ..... . 382 .... 10.00
Carquinez . . ....... . 337.. . . 5.00 Hills Ferry ........ 236 .... 10.75
Charity .......... : . 362. . . . 4.00 Hiram ............. 43.. .. 5.00
Charter Rock ...... .410 .... 10.00 Ho~lywood ......... 355 .... 10.00
Chico ............ . . 111. 1. • 10.00 Honolulu . . ....... . 409 . ... 25.00
Clinton . . .. . .. . ... . 119 .... 10.00 Howard .. ......... 96.... 5.00
Coalinga ......... .. 387.... 5.00 HumQ<ildt ......... 79 .... 10.00
Concord ........... 117... . 10.00 Illinoistown ... . . . : . 51 .... 10.00
Colusa ............. 240 .... 10.00 King David's ....... 200 ... . 10.00
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9. . . . 10.00 King Solomon's .... . 260 . . .. 25.00
Corona ............ 324 .... 10.00 Las Palmas ......... 366. .. . 5.00
Crescent ......•.... 45.. . . 5.00 Lassen ............. 149.... 2.50
Crockett ........ .. . 139 .... 25.00 Liberty ... . ....... . 299 .... 10.00
Curtis ........... . . 140.... 5.00 · Live Oak ........... 61. ... 40.00
Dinuba ............ 385. . . . 5.00 Lodi ............... 256 .... 10.00
Doric ...... . ....... 216 ... . 25.00 Long Beach ......... 327... . 5.00
Downey .. .. ....... 220... . 5.CO Los Angeles. .. . . .. . 42.. .. 10.00
Dunsmuir ... .. . . ... 297. . . . 5.00 Los Gatos .......... 292. . . . 10.00
Durant .... ........ 268 .... 10.00 Madera _, ........... 280.. .. 10.00
East · Belt ........... 391.. . . 5.00 Madison ........... 23.. . . 10.00
Eden .............. 113.. .. 5.00 Magnolia .. . ....... 242. . . . 10.00
Eel Riv·er ...... ... .. 147. . . . 10.00 Marin .... . ........ 191.. .. 15.00
Enterprise . . .. . . . .. 70.. .. 5.00 Martinez ........... 41. .. . 10.00
Eucalyptus . . .. . . . .. 243 .. .. 25.00 McKinley . . .... . ... 347. . . . 5.00
Eureka .. ... ....... 16.... 5.00 Mendocino ......... 179... . 5.00
Evening Star . . . . . .. 186. . . . 5.00 Mill Valley ......... 356 .. .. 25.00
Excelsior .... .. . . .. 166 .. .. 25 .00 Mizpah ..... . ...... 378 .... 25.00
Fidelity ............ 120 .... 25.00 Mokelumne Hill .... 298 .... 10.00
Forest ............. 66.... 5.00 Moneta .. . ....... .. 405 .... 10.00
Franklin ... .. . .... . 143 .... 10.00 Monrovia .. . .. . .... 308. . . . 10.00
Francis Drake . ..... 376 . . . . 10.00 Monterey .. . .. ..... 217 .. . . 2.00
Fraternity . . ..... . . 399.. . . 10.00 Mosaic .... . ..... .. 218 .... 10.00
Fresno .... . .. . ... . . 247. . . . 10.00 Mt. Jackson . .. . .... 295. . . . 5.00

94

-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No. Amt.
Mt. Moriah ......... 44 ... : 2S.OO
Mountain View ..... 194.... 2.SO
Natoma ... ....... .. 64 . .. . S.00
Nevada ............ 13 . ... · S.00
Nicolaus . .... . .... .129.. .. S.00
North East. ........ 266 . ... S.00
Oak Grove .. . .. .... 21S.... S.00
Oakland .......... . 188 .... 10.00
Occidental ......... 22 .... 2S.OO
Olive Branch ....... 269 .... 10.00
Ontario . ... ...... .. 301. . .. 10.00
Oxnard .. . ......... 341. ... ZS.00
Pacific ..... ..... ... 136 ... , 20.00
Pacific Gr-0ve .... . .. 331. . . . S.00
Palmyra .... .... .. . 26 . ... 10.00
Palo Alto ..... . .... 346 .. ·.. 10.00
Palos Verdes . ...... 389. . . . 10.00
Parnassus .. ... .... . 388 . .. : 10.00
Pasadena .......... Zl2 . . . . 10.00
Paso Robles .. .... ·.. 286 . . . . S.00
Pentalpha .. .. .. .... 202., .. 10.00
Phoenix ............ 178. . . . 10.00
Pinole ............. 3S3. . . . 10.00
Plumas .. .......... 60 . . . . 2.SO
Palestine .. .. . ...... 351.... S.00
Reading ......... .. 2S4 .... 10.00
Redondo . .......... 328 ... . 10.00
Redwood City ....... 168 .... 20.00
Reedley . , ... . ... ... 304. ... S.00
Rio Vista ...........208. . . . S.00
Sacramento . ...... . 40 ..... 10.00
Salinas .... .. ... ... 204.... 2.SO
San Benito ........ 211. . .. S.00
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 3S . . . . 10.00
Sanger .... ... .... . 316 . ... 10.00
San Bernardin~ .. ... 348 ... . lS.00
San Francisco ....... 360 .... 10.00
San Jacinto .. .-...... 338.... S.00
San Joaquin ........ 19 . ... 10.00
San Jose ..... . . .. ... 10 .... 10.00
San Mateo ... .. ... 226 .... 10.00

Lodge.
No. Amt.
San Miguel. ....... . 28S. . . . 10.00
Santa Cruz ......... 38 .. .. 10.00
Santa Monica . ... ... 307 .... S.00
San Simeon .... ... 196. . . . S.00
Sequoia .. ......... 349. • . . 10.00
Sierra Valley ...... 184. . . . S.00
Silveyville ...... ... 201. . . . 10.00
Silver Gate . . ....... 296 .... 10.00
Snow Mountain .... . 271.. . . S.00
Southern California.278 .. .. 10.00
South Gate ......... 320 .... 5.00
So. San Francisco ... 212 .... 10.00
Speranza Italiana ... 219 .... lS.00
Starr King .. . ... . ...344 .... 10.00
Suisun , . .. . . . . . . . . . SS. . . . 2.SO
Sunset ......... . ... 3S2. . . . 10.00
Surprise Valley ... . . 23S . , . . S.00 ·.
South Pasadena ..... 367. "·. S.00 ·
T ehachapi .. .. . .. .. . 313.. . . S.00 ·
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3. . . . 2S.OO
Texas .. . ... ..... .. 46. . . . 5.0Q
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 ..... 10.00
Tuscan ............ 261. ..• 10.00
Unity . ... ......... 368.... 5.00
Union . . .... .. .... . 58 .... 2S.OO
University . . ... .. . . 394 . .. . lS.SS .
Vacaville .... . .. ... 134.... 5.00
Veteran .. .. ........ 373 .... 4.2S
Visalia ..... .. . . ... 128 .... 10.00
Vitruvius ........ . . 14S.. . . 10.00
Volcano . ..... ..... S6. ... 4.00
Washington ....... . 20 . ... 10.00
Western Sta.r . . . . . . 2.... S.00
West Gate .... . .....33S . . . . 10.00
Whittier . .. . ..... . . 323 .... 10.00
Willits .... . ..... .. . 365 . . . . S.00
Woodbridge . ... . .. . 131.. . . S.00
Woodland ....... .. 156.... S.00
Yolo ........... . .. 81.... l.SO
Yount ........... .. 12.... 5.00
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39. . . . 10.00

95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CHAPTER R. A. M.
Chapter.
No. Amt.
Alameda . ... .... .. . 70 ... . $5.00
o\ntioch ............ 65 .... 10.00
'zusa .. _. ........... 80.... 5.00
nerkeley . .. ........ 92 .... 10.00
C'alifornia . . . . . . . . . . S .... 2S.OO
I >elta . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Z7. . . . 5.00
Doric ... ... . ... .... 66 .... . S.00
Dixon .............. 48 .... 10.00
C~ranite .. ... ....... 94. . .. • S.00
llumboldt ...... . . . . S2.... S.00
I Iowa~d . ..... . ..... 14 .... 10:00
1 lollister · . .. .. .. .... 68.... 2.SO
Keystone ·.... . .. ... S6 .... 10.00
Kern Valley ......... 7S ... ·. 25.00
Marin ... ... .. . .. ... 102... . S.00
Mendocino ... ·...... 88.... S.00

Chapter.
No. Amt.
Mill Valley. ........ . 108. . . . 10.00
Naval ............. 3S .... 10.00
Palo Alto . .......... 93 .... 5.00
Sutter . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11. . . . S.00
St. James . .. . . ...... 16 . ... S.00
San Francisco. .. .... 1. ... 10.00
Sacramento . . . . . . . . 3 , .• . . 2S.OO
Signet . . . .. . . . . . . . . 57 .... 10.00
San Luis Obispo. . . . 62. . . . S.00
Santa Cruz .. . : ..... 38 . ... 5.00
Sonora .. .... : .. , ; . ·2. ... 5.CO
San Diego ......... 61 . ... 10.00
Tulare .......•..... 71. . . . 10.00
Visali:t' ........... . 44 .... 10.00
Ventura .. , .. ., . ... SO .. .. 10.00
Washington .. " . .. : 13 . . . . 10.00

COMMANDERY K. T.

COUNCIL. R. & ·S. M. ·
Los Angeles .. , . .". . 11 .. .. $10.00

Berkeley .. .... .... . 42 .. .. $10.00
California . . . . . . . . . . 1. ... 2S.OO
LODGE OF . PERFECTION
Eureka .. .. ........ 35 .... 20.00
A. & A. S. R.
Golden Ga.te ....... 16 .... 2S.OO
San Francisco. . . . . . . 1 .. .. $25.00
Lassen . ... . ... ·.. ... 13.... 2.SO
California ...... .. .. 10 . .. . 25.00
Los Angeles . . . . . .. 9 .... · 3S 00 Isaac Davis ... :..... 4 ... . 10.00
Marysville . . . . . . . . . 7. . . . 10.00 San Jose ..... , .... . .· . ...... 10.00
Mt. Olivet . ........ 20.... S.00 Pacific . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . 5.00
Nevada . . . . . . . . . . . . 6. .. . S.00
Napa .......... . .... 34.... S.00
CHAPTER 0 . E . S.
Oakland . . . . . . . . . . . 11. . . . 10.00 · Gardena . .. .. .. .. . . . . . . . .. $5.75
Pasadena . . . . . . . .. . 31.. . . 10.00 Naomi .. . .. .. .. . .. . 36 . .. . 25.00
Redding ·· . .. ......• SO ... .- 10.00 Fallen Leaf ......... 90.. . . 2.50
San J ose . .. . ....... 10.... S.00 L-Ower Lake . .... , ... 231. ... 10.00
Sacramento . . . . . . . . 2 ... . 25.00
INDIVIDUALS.
San Luis Obispo .. .. 27. . . . S.00 '
Santa Cruz ...... .". 44.... S.00 Thos. J, Baker ............ $20.00
San Diego . . . . . . . . 25 . . . . 10.00 Wm. A. Doble ....... ..... 25.00
Visalia . . . . . . . . . . . . 26. . . . 10.00 M. Deman Jewelry Co. . . . 5.00
Ventura . ... ... . . . . 18 .. .. 10.00 H. S. Jones. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25.00
Vacaville . .......... 38.... S.00 A . V. Lisenby.... .. . .. . . . . . 5.00
Woodland . . . . . . . . . • 21. . . . S.00 George Mesbacker . . . . . . . . 1.00
Watsonville ....... . 22 .... 10.00 W . R. Williams............ 2.00
0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

96

NAM!l.

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME.
The following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto
· Home the dates of their admission, their respective ages, the names
and the numbers of the Lodges nominating them and the location of
such Lodges :
M!lN
NAME.

ADMITT:ED.

71.
LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION.

AGJ!.

Ashburn, Hans A . . .. Mar. 8, '08 Nevada City . . . .. 13 Nevada City .. 91
Anderson, C. A .....• Feb.
9, '09 Mt. Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco.64,
Andrews, R . . ....... Oct. 25, '02 Stanislaus . . . . ... 206 Modesto • . .. 90
Branthaver, D •...... Jan. 18, '04 Durant , ....... . . 268 Berkeley ..... 82
Bradley, John H ..... Oct.
12, '07 Keith .. .. .. . ... . 18i Gilroy .. . .... 82
Barrett, John M . . ... May 11, '08 Mt. Shade . . . . . .. 18 Downieville .. 84
Billings, S. M .......• Sept.
4, '10 Tuolumne . . .. ... 8 Sonora ... .... 88
Benson, W. H .... . .• Sept. 13, '10 Salinas ..... : . ... 204 Salinas .... . . B5
Brown, Phillip T . . .. Dec. 28, '10 Morning Star . . . 68 Stockton . .. ..76
Ba.ggi, Casimir S . .. . April 25, '11 Mountain View .. . 194 Mt'n View .. 62
Bullier, Leon .... •• .. July
2, '12 Texas . . , , , .... . . 46 San Juan B .. 83
Beck, John ...... . ... Aug. 29, '12 Summit . ... . .... 112 Kt's Ferry ... 80
Chambers, G ....... . Feb. 17, '02 Crockett . . .... .. 139 San Francisco.Bl
Castellaw, T. A . ..... May
2, '10 Clear Lake . , . , .. 1B3 Lower Lake, .74
Chamblin, M. R ..... . Sept. 28, '10 Hartley .. . ... . .. 199 Lakeport ... . 84
Chapman, J. M .. .... Oct.
6, '11 Concord .. , . .. . .. 117 Sacramento . . 62
Chamberlain, Jos . ... June 18, '12 Molino , . , . . . .... 150 Tehama . . .. . 80
Dolt, Alexander .... . May 18, '99 Rising Star . . . . . B3 Forest Hill . . 67
Dennis, William . . .. . Feb. 28, '11 Sierra Valley . ... 184 Sierraville ....80
Dunning, William . . .. Nov. 24, '11 Nevada . . . . . . . .. . 13 Nevada City . . 77
Eversole, James . . . ... Oct. 15, '10 Vacaville .. ~ . .. .. 134 Vacaville ·. . . 80
Fraiser, John . . . . .... June · 12, '00 Benicia . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ...... 85
Oakland ..... 78
Farrington, Elvin . . . . Feb.
9, '08 Live Oak ...... . . 61
Shasta . ... . . . 78
Wes
tern
Star
....
..
2
French, John A . . .. . .June
8, '07
San Francisco.74
Fink, Conrad ..... ... Aug~ 23, '12 Hermann .. . ..... 127
San Jose .... 74
San
Jose
.
.
..
...
.
10
Hagerdon, C. L . . ....Feb. 22, '02
Merced . ..• ..61
Hayward, Alvin E ... Ma.y 11, '08 La Grange . . . . . . 99
Colfax ... . ... 77
Hallock, R. F., .. ...• Jan.
7, '10 Illinoistown . . . . . 51
Yuba City ... 77
Enterprise
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
70
Hendrick, Robt. C ... Aug. 11, '10
San Francisco.(i()
Golden
Gate
..
,
..
30
Jensen, Niels P .... .. July 22, '07
San Leandro. 74
Jeffers, S ... .. ....... Jan.
5, '10 Eden . ... . ....... 13
Tuolumne .. . 59
East
Belt
.
.
.
.
.
.
..
391
Johns, Josiah . .. . . ... Apr. 15, '12

ADMITT:ED.

I lnir, G. D . ..... . ... Dec.
I •Irr, Earl .......... . Sept.
I tene, James . ....•.. Sept.
I angley, George .... . Dec.
l~ppoldt, H. A ....... Jan.
M >rton, Wm. B . . . ... Oct.
Mayer, Joseph ....... Jan.
Magee, David B ..... Apr.
Myers, Oliver H ...•. Aug.
Meyer, Wm. D ...... Aug.
Orden, B. F . .. . .. . .o Apr.
t•aton, George . . . .... Mar.
I '• >tting, Henry F .... May
l'ruton, J. N .. . ..... May
J•arker, H. D .. .... . Aug.
Roberts, S. A . . ...•.• Feb.
Redican, B .. .. ...... Mar.
Rumbol, R. F .. ... .. . Jan.
Rodecker, Elias . ..... June
Redmond, Samuel. ... Aug.
Rauck, Alexander . • . , Oct.
Rossi, Albert .... : ... May
Rewcastle, J. G ..... , Oct.
Recd, B. H . ... ..... .. Apr.
Reppey, J. W . . .•.• ,, Apr.
:Spencer, T. C .. .. .... Aug.
Smith, Eli M ........ Nov.
Starkweather, C. H .• Jan.
Shakespear, David ... Feb.
Schneider, Ed. S .•.• Sept.
Scull, Charles . . •..•• , Sept.
Stanton, Andrew P . • Aug.
'l'upper, John H ..... Feb.
'rack, Nicholas ....... Oct.
Wooley, E. B ........ Dec.
Welch, Wm. W .. ....June
Whipple, Wm. M .. .. l'viar.
Warren, R. B ..... ; .. .t:·eb.
Zimmerman, W. T ... Feb.
0

7

7, '11
11, '09
4, '10
17, '06
20, '07
12, '07
10, '10
19, '11
29, '12
31, '12
19, 'OS
21, '02
2, '11
22, '12
26, '12
26, '01
1, '05
30, '08
12, '09
21, '10
25, '10
23, '11
B, '11
12, '12
S, '12
25, '12
2S, '00
26, '02
9, '08
13, '08
11, '09
6, '11
14, '09
29, '10
29, '03
14, '08
6, '09
3, '10
2, '10

LODGJ!.

97
NO.

LOCATION.

AGJ!.

Porterville . ... .. . 303 Porterville . ..82
Pacific .......... 136 San Francisco.7S
Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino ... 75
Winnedumah .... 287 Bishop :-.. ....SB
Northern Light. . . 190 Millville ..... 82
Sincerity .. . ... . . 132 Greenville .. .85
Mokelumne Hill .. 298 Mokelu'ne H.83
Doric .. .. . .. ... -.216 San Francisco.71
Starr King . . .... . 344 San Francisco.67
Mountain View .. 194 Mt. View ..... S2
Mission ...... .. . 169 San Francisco.73
Doric ......•.... 216 ·San Francisco.79
S. San Francisco . 212 San Francisco.64
South Gate .. .. .. 320 Los Angeles .. 80
California . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco.7S
Bear Mountain .. . 76 An~ls Camp.84
Los Angeles ..... 42 Los Angeles: .88
Redwood City ... 168 Redwood City.82
Mission ...... . .. 169 San Francisco.Bl
Truckee ....... . . 200 Truckee .. . .. 68
Quitman ...... . . BB N. Bloomfield.Bl
Al·hambra ....... 322 Alhambra .... 74
Mendocino .....• 179 Mendocino . ..79
Trinity .......... 27 Weaverville .. 79
Pacific .......... . l 36 San Francisco.SS
Chico ........... 111 Chico ... . ....64
Concord ......... 117 Sacramento .. B2
S. California ... . .278 Los Angeles . .64
Oaklarid ....... .. 188 Oakland ..... 73
Oriental ....... ... 144 · San Francisco.68
Excelsior ...... .• 166 San Francisco.7S
Pacific .... .. . .. . 136 San Francisco.7S
Petaluma . .. .....180 Petaluma .... 72
Crescent . ......• 45 Crescent City. 7B
Alcatraz ......... 244 Oakland ... . . 83
Calaveras ........ 78 San Andreas . .83
Brentwood .... . •24S Brentwood ...79
Wilmington ...... 19B Wilmingto~ .. 88
Abell .... ... . ... . 146 Ukiah .... .. . 72

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA·

99

WOMEN 36.
. NAM£.
ADMITTED.
Baxter, M. F ........ April 16, '02
Barclay, C. L ........ Aug. 26, '02
Briggs, Mary J ...... April 24, '07
Brooks, Rosina ...... Nov. 10, '07
Collins, Delia ....... Feb.
2, '11
Dyer, Sarah ........ July 17, '00
Dunlap, R. E ........ Sept. 23, '09
Ehmann, M •........ April 14, '05
Elder, M. J ..•....... Jan.
8, '08
Elliott, A. M .•...... May
1, '04
'Fountain. H. It ...... Sept.
7, '06
Fuller, C. T ..•...... Feb.
9, '08
Grimes, E. H .. . . .. .. Dec.
8, '03
Groome, Julia ..... . . Mar.
1, '06
Grant, Permelia E ... Feb.
2, '11
Haskell, S. W ...•.•. Oct.
17, '01
House, A ..........•. Sept. 13, '08
Reith, Catherine .... Oct. 16, '10
Julian, B. M ......... Jan.
7, '00
Johnson, M •..•..•... Mar.
6, '03
McMahon, M .•...... Sept. 20, '00
McKinnon, M.A .•... Dec. 31, '01
Moore, Emily N . . .•. May
7, '12
Mast, Frances C . • •.. Aug, 31, '12
Nash, M.A ..... .. ... June 11, '04
Peacock, L .......... April 2, '00
Preston, Marie ..•... Feb.
6, '09
Potting, Nellie E .••.. May
2, '11
Robinson, I. ......... Dec. 19, '03
Redican, M. A ....• , . Mar.
1, '05
Seeley, Nancy C ..••. Sept:
3, '10
Stanton, Mar)' 0 .... Dec. 12, '10
Thomas, F. W ...• , •. Jan.
,4, '04
Valliant, S. E ....•... Oct.
13, '11
Wentworth, L ....... Feb.
6, '00
Wooley, Jane ........ Dec. 29, '03

LODGE:.
NO.
Santa Rosa ...... 57
Golden Gate ..... 30
Long Beach ...... 327
Mt. Moriah ....•. 44
Tehama . . . . . . . . . 3
Oriental ......... 144
Keith ........... 187
Hermann ...••... 127
Pacific .... . •.... 136
Occidental ... • ... 22
Evergreen ...... . 259
Michigan City ... 47
Naval ........... 87
Santa Cruz
38
Antioch . ... . •.. . 175
California . . . . . • . 1
Georgetown ..... 25
Fresno .......... 247
Madison ....... . . 23
Summit •...•.•.. 112
Oakland ......•.. 188
Morning Star •... 68
Madison ... ..•... 23
Yosemite ...• . ... 133
Palmyra ......... 26
Alameda ... .. ... 167
California . . . • • • . 1
S. San Francisco .. 212
Eureka .......... 16
Los Angeles . . . . . 42
Manzanita ....... 102
Pacific .......... 136
Abell . .• , ....•.•. 146
Washington .•... 20
Hawaiian ........ 21
Alcatraz ......... 244

LOCATION. AGE
Santa Rosa .. 75
San Francisco.89
Long Beach .• 76
San Francisco.69
Tehama .. • . . 81
San Francisco.74
Gilroy ....... 75 "
San Francisco.97
San Francisco.8()
San Francisco.71
Riverside .... 80
Michigan City.68
Vallejo .... : .86
Santa Cruz •.• 71
Antioch . . ..•• 72
San Francisco.Bl
Georgetow~ •. 74
Fresno •..... 66
Grass Valley .• 39
Knights- Ferry.62
Oakland ..... 81
Stockton ..•.. 64
Grass Valley; .80
Coulterville .. 68
Placerville ... 74
Centerville ... 85
San Francisco.58
San Francisco.68
Auburn ...... 82
Los Angele& .. 81
N. San Juan •. 76
San Francisco.77
Ukiah .• ..•.. 84
Sacramento •. 75
Honolulu .. ..67
Oakland ..... sg

DIED DURING TH£ Y!AR-12.
NAM£.

DAT£.

Brown, Fidelia W ... . . . ..... Oct.

28,. '11 .
6, '11

BURIED AT
Decoto

Colbourn, Ellen . . ........... Nov.
Carney, Louisa M ... . ...... . Aug.

27, '12

Decoto

Calhoun, Milo A . . . . .. ...... July

25, '12

Decoto

Diner, Harry · · · · ... . . . ..... Jan.
Forsburg, Fred .. . ......... . . June

2, '12

Deco to

9, '12

Decoto

French, Wheeler N. , .. . . ·.... Aug.
Muttall, Hasalom · · .. . .. . . . . July

Decoto

10, '12

Decoto

9, '12

Decoto

26, '12

San Jose

Rousseau, Elijah · . . . . ..... .. July
Seltenheim, Herman ....... , .Feb.

22, '12

San Jose

Stampley, Sarah E . ..... . .... June

3, '12

Oakland

Tournot, Peter . ... . . ........ . Dec.

16, '11

Tehachapi

VOLUNTARY D£PARTURl!S-3.
Cooper Arthur ..... . .......• Oct.

1, '11

Fournier, Maria M .. . ....... Jan.

5, '12

Mjtchell, Leroy T ... . ...... . . Oct.

l, ,11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

100

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

101

SAN GABRIEL HOME.
The following is a complete list of the children of the San Gabriel
Home, the date of their admission, their respective ages, the names and
numbers of the Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges:
BOYS 32, ADUL'l'S 1.
NAME.

.ADM1'1'TED.

Brown, Newell ...... Jan.
25, '10
Brown, Warren ..... Jan.
25, '10
Buletti, Antone ... ... Nov: 10, '07
5, '11
Bundy, Emory Edwin.Fe_b.
Bundy, John Harold.. Feb.
5, '11
Clairville, Henry .... April 29, '07
Clairville, Victor .... April 29, '07
French, Ferdinand :.April 7, '06
Hanson, Howard B .. Dec.
2, '09
Herbert, Jesse. G .... June 14, '08
Hyner, Clinton G ... June 14, '08
Ryner, Lewis : ....... June 14, '08
Lakey, Dale .. .. ... . Mch. : 1, '10
Lakey, Myron ...... Mch.
1, '10
Lightfoot, Carl V .... April 21, '12
Lightfoot, Clyde L ... April 21, '12
McKenzie, Orville S.May
2, 12
7, '12
Pattison, Francis H . . June
Pattison, Kenneth .. July 12, '11
Ramsey, Fred'k ..... April 19, '10
Riley, Jahiel Theo ... April 11, '11
Robert, Clovis John .. Aug. . 27, '10
Robert, Albert Lucas.June . ·27, '10
· Schultz, Charles L ... June -14, '10
Snow, Alfred ....... June
9, '12
Stevens, Harvey .... Feb. 25, '10
Stevens, Rollin ... . . Feb. 25, '10
Trueblood, Fred'k ... Mch.
1, '10
Wingate, Donald Mc. Feb. 20, '11
Wingate, James B ... Feb. 20, '11
Warfield, Roder'k F. Aug. 19, '12
Bettes, A. M ........ Aug. 17, '00

LODGJ!;.

NO.

LOCA'l'10N.

AG!!;.

Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington . . 12
Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington . , 15
Speranza It. ... . ... 219 · San Francisco.12
Santa Ana .....•. 241 Santa Ana .... 7
Santa Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana .... 10
Oakland ........ . 188 Oakland ... .• 13
Oakland ........ 188 Oakland .. : .. 15
Ashlar ........... 306 Colton ..... -.10
Board of Relief..
Los Angeles... 13
Golden Gate ..... 30 San Francisco. 8 ·
Volcano ......... 56 Volcano ...... 13
Volcano . . . .. . .. . 56 · Volcano .. .. • 8
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ..... 12
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ..... 13
Board of Relief...
Los Angeles .. 7
Board of Relief.. .
Los Angeles .• 5
Golden State ..... 358 Los Angeles .. 6
Crockett ......... 139 San Francisco. 7
Crockett .. . ... . .. 139 San Franci~co.1.2
10
Martinez ........ 41 Martine.z .... ·11
Volcano .... . .... 56 Volcano ..... 11
Volcano ......... 56 Volcano ..... 9
Needles .. :,:..·: .. ; ~2Q Needles ..... 10
Mt. Washington .. 295 Guerneville .. 13
Agreement ·Bd. Trust.
10
Agreement Bd. Trust.
13
East Gate ....... 290 Los Angeles . . 12
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco. 7
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco.11
Board of Relief. .
Los Angeles .. 11
Pasadena .. ...... 272 Pasadena .... 68

GIRLS 16, ADUL'l'S
NAME.

ADMI'l'TED.'

LODGE.

1.
NO.

IIr •>wn, Margaret ... Jan.

LOCATION.

AG!!;.

30, '10 Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington . . 9
lh1letti, Margherita .. Nov. 10, '07 Speranza It ..... .. 219 San Francisco.12
I 'l1alrville, Juanita ... April 29, '07 Oakland ......... 188
Oakland ..... 17
I •i>novan, Ethel ..... Dec. 15, '09 Doric ............ 216 San Francisco.14
II rcnch, Ismena .... . Dec. 30, '03 Ashlar . . ... .... .. 307 Colton ...... 12

1laensel, Elizabeth .. April 10, '02 E urek a . . . . . . . . . . 79
Eureka ...... 18
I r.ensel, Gertrude E. April 10, '02 E urek a .......... 79 Eureka ...... 14
I lerbert, Jennie . . ... June 14, '00 Golden Gate ..... 30 San Francisco.12
llyner, Edith G..... June 14, '00 Volcano ......... 56 Volcano ..... 12

llamsey, May .. . .... May
ltlley, Effie Anna .... April
IUley, Margaret Rose.April
11.>bert, Emily E . .... Aug.
,;tcvens, Irene ...... Feb.
Wiilis, Mildred .... . Oct.
Willis, M'illicent .... Oct.
frumball, Mary ... .

14, '10
8
11, '11 Martinez ........ 41 Martinez .... 8
6, '12 Geo. Washington. 62 Chinese Camp. 4
27, '10 Volcano ........ . 56 Volcano ..... 12
25, '10 Agreement Bd. Trust.
10
15, '10 Alameda ........ 167 Centerville ... 13
15, 'IO Alameda •....... 167 Centerville ... 13

Dl!PAR'l'URJ!;S-13,

}lrokaw, Albert .... Dec.
<!arpenter, Well'gton.June
<!&rpenter, Chester B.June
Ollbcrt, Florence .... Dec.
11111, Frank ......... July
McRae, Leland A .... Dec.
( )neal, Barbara . .... June
Riley, Rebecca ... . . . April
Hyan, John ......... Nov.
hone, Ruth ........ Mch.
hone, Marian ...... Mch.
'fucker, Irene . .. .... July
hone, Leonard ..... Mch.

8, '11
20, '12
20, '12
30, '11
15, '12
22, '11
1,_ '12
19, '12
6, '11
21, '12
21, '12

11, '12
19, ·1~

Live with mother
Live with father
Live with father
Live with mother
Live with mother
Live with mother
Live with mother
Adopted by family
Live with mother
Live with mother
Live with mother
Child's. Hosp, S. F.
Died

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

102

The report, in so far as it related to finances, was referred to the Committee on Finance. In other respects it was
adopted. as presented.
Brother Henry Ascroft, Chairman of the Committee on
Accounts, presented the following report~
To the M.' . w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee to audit the bills of this Grand Lodge, beg
leave to submit the following report :
Your Committee has met in the Grand Secretary's Office on the
last Saturday of each month, during the past Masonic year; when all
bills and vouchers for expenditures of money, outside of the regular
appropriations by .this Grand Lodge, have been acted upon, and approved
by the majority of this Committee previous to being paid.
.
.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY AscRoFT,
HuGH J. Ow1;N,
J. CI.AUDE . PERRY,
DANIEL E. F. EASTON.

Which was adopted as read.
Brother Edward S. Valentine, Chairman of the Special
Committee appointed last year to devise an index system·for
the membership of the Grand Lodge, presented the following report:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Special Committee to whom was referred the task of devising and installing an i!1dex system of registration in the office of
the Grand Secretary, whereby the name and Masonic history of each
member in the jurisdiction could be readily found, beg to report : That
with the co-operation of the Grand Secretary we collected data from
many jurisdictions using index systems, and after carefully studying
all' of them-and they were all meritorious-we adopted a modified
form of the system in vogue in the State of New York, the Lodges
of which State have a membership now of 175,(XX). The system was
formally started on the first of August, 1912, and although the Grand
Secretary has had -but two months' actual experience with it, it is
apparent that our choice was wise, and that by the expi~ation of
another year it will be possible to find the name and Masonic record
of every member at a moment's notice.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

103

The scheme of indexing adopted consists of cards, each bearing
n number and the name and Lodge of a member. These cards are
filed in a steel filing case, arranged in alphabetical order with one
thousand subdivisions of the alphabet. Books have been p~ovided of
heavy linen paper, with ruled lines, each line bearing a numbe; to
<orrespond with a card number, with headings for name date of
nffiliation, Lodge of which last a member, age at initiatio~, occupation, w~~re born, residence (city or tow.n), dates of initiation, passing
nnd ra1smg'. ~ates when dimitted, suspended, expelled, restored, died,
nnd an add1t1onal column for remarks. A oopy of all the above information is k~pt in sheet fonri, arranged by' Lodges, and filed in a
1teel document-filing case, and in the event of a Lodge losing its
rtcords by fire or -otherwise, the Grand Secretary can supply the
1 ecord of members.
. The installation of this system has already done away with the
tl'd1ous labor heretofore required of Secretaries in copying the entire
li~t of i:iembership on the annual returns, as the only report now necruary ts to show the losses and gains for the year.
Our membership as reported July 31, 1902-ten years ago-was
?4,735. T he number of names on the list July 31, 1912, was 48,315,
n tremendous gain not only in numbers but in the work of the Grand
Stcr~tary's office. It is evident that our membership in 1922 will approximate nearly 90,!XX>, and the annual printing of a roster will
i~1 a few years be a burden, the benefits of which would not be justified by the expense. We recommend, however, that the Roster be
1 ontinued in printed form as usual until the index system is completely worked up as to current membership. This is a matter that
can well be considered next year.
Last year Grand Lodge appropriated $1,000.00 for the installation
o>f the index system. This was nearly exhausted in the purchase
,lf steel furniture, books, cards and blanks necessary. The work
hns. been carefully planned, iand it was considered the part of good
business to encourage the purchase of steel rather than wood cases
thereby lessening- materially the danger of loss by fire.
'
We recommend that the necessary expenses of clerk hire, stationuy and postag.e for the ensuing year be paid as are other bills against
the Grand Lodge, after being duly audited by the Committee on Accounts.
Respectfully submitted,
Hl!NRY Ascaon.

R. s. AI.U:N,

E. s. v Ar.ENTIN£,
Committee.

Which was adopted together with the recommendations

and the Committee discharged.

'

104

GHAND LODGlll OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Edward S. Valentine, Chairman of the Committee on Endowment of the Masonic Homes of California,
presented the following report:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
We, the Endowment Fund Committee of the Masonic Homes of
California, beg to present this, a partial report of our labors during
the past year.
Shortly after the close of the last annual communication of the .
Grand Lodge this Committee met in the offices of the Grand Secretary,
a majority of the Committee being present. After consideration of the
duties of the Committee, the work necessary to be performed, etc., it
was deemed best to request ideas and suggestions from well informed
Masons in the Grand Jurisdiction, as to the best method of procedure
in accomplishing the desired result. Accordingly, a circular letter (a
copy of which ·is attached to and made part of this report), was
formulated and addressed to two hundred and fifty prominent and
representative brethren. This letter contained a request for their assistance in the way of idea~ and suggestions as to how best to reach
and arouse an enthusiastic sentiment in favor of the Endowment idea
-in formulating a plan which would in a measure bring about concerted thought and action by the great body of Masonic brethren in
California. Your Committee regrets to report that there came an immediate response from but fifteen out of the two hundred and fifty
addressed, but we are proud of those fifteen good brethren who did
reply, for from them came splendid ideas and suggestions which have
been of great assistance to this Committee in formulating its plans.
Undoubtedly the other two hundred and thirty-five br-ethren are in
hearty accord with the aims and ideas of the Grand Lodge, but like
us feel keenly the magnitude of the undertaking and will "ask for

further time."
We believe that it is but just and proper that the Masons of this
jurisdiction should be fully informed as to what has already been
accomplished with the means at the disposal of .the Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Homes of California; also what is desired to be .
accomplished. We have prepared a brief summary or history of the
Homes. This we purpose using in such manner as may be considered
wisest by this Grand Lodge in furtherance of the work of the Endowment Fund Committee, and which is respectfully submitted for consideration.
In view of the financial situation, your Committee has refrained
from making any specific appeal to the fraternity for donations up to
the present time, but has utilized the time in making preparations.
Notwithstanding no specific appeals have been made, we are pleased

105

to repo.rt from recei~t ?f .iie!iable information that many noble charit~ble ~aso~s of the Jur1sd1ctlon have provided for substantial bequests
in their wills. to. the Masonic Homes of California, aggregating large
am?ums. This 1s very gratifying and encourages us in the belief of
ultimate success in securing the attention of the fraternity to th
needs. of those. noble institutions, our Homes, a-nd the endowment
s~ffic1ent ~agmtude to place them beyond the possibility of failure or
?indrance in the good work now being accomplished through the medium of the Homes.
~ong other suggestions received by your Committee, was that all
Subo~dinate lod~es take up the work of creating within their membership a fund to be known as "The Endowment Fund for Masonic
i:omes,'' su:h fund to be made up of voluntary subscriptions and donations from its members, the subscriptions to be for a period of years
-three, f?ur or five as may be deemed best. This we consider the
'."ost feasible of any of the numerous plans suggested reaching as
1t will, ev-ery individual Mason through the proper 'medium his
l~dge, and at the same time presenting an opportunity for the 'individual .to contribute as his heart may dictate, and in the manner most
convenient to the greater number.
Any suggestions which may be adopted, to have a practical value
should have the sanction, if not emanate from, the Grand Lodge, fo;
eve~ l?~ge should have the assurance from the Grand Lodge of the
adv1sab1hty of such action decided upon. There should be a uniform
m~thod ?f procedure by all lodges, and to that end your Committee
~111 outline that method and issue proper instructions if deemed advisable by this Grand Lodge.
~any g?od a?d valuable suggestions were submitted and your
committee wishes 1t were possible to adopt all of them, but our plans
to ~ effectual must of necessity be condensed into one concise and
pract1~1. appeal to .the generosity of the Craft. We therefore are of
the opinion that this can best be attained by confining the appeal for
the present to the lodge, and through them, to the individual Mason,
the lodge to ~r~ate the Endo"'.ment Fund by securing individual voluntary subscriptions and donations for a period of years• the individu~l for donations in cash, property, or bequest through medium of
wills as he may choose.
e ~esire it to be understood that it is not intended to restrict the
contributions to the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes to this
one me~hod. On th~ contrary, any method adopted which will bring
t~ desired re:~mlt will be ·g reatly welcomed, our sole aim being the
ul~1~ate creation of ~ permanent endowment fund of at least One
!'111hon Dollars. It will be a pleasure to recognize any method leading to that one result. There are brethren in this jurisdiction who

0~

V.:

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

stand ready to contribute to this noble undert.aki~g in t~eir own w~y,
and we beg to assure them that their contributions will be heartily
appreciated and recognized by this Committee, no matter how made.
In view of the abovie we offer the following for consideration of

this Grand Lodge and recommend their adoption:
First: The Grand Lodge consent to the creation .of a separate
fund in each subordinate lodge of this jurisdiction, said fund to ~e
known -as "The Endowment Fund for the benefit of the Masomc
Homes of California."
Second : Said fund shall be created solely from the voluntary
contributions of its members--of cash or property-and shall be continued for a period of five years.
Third : The Master shall appoint a Committee of t.hree members
.of the lodge, whose duty it shall be to do any and all thmgs necessary
to be done to create and promote the interests of the Perma~ent Endo~­
ment Fund of the Masonic Homes, receive all contribut10ns to said
fund and pay same to the Secretary of the lodge when collected. The
Secretary shall remit same to the Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge for the benefit of the Masonic Homes.
Fourth: No compensation shall be paid to any person at any
time for services rendered in creating and maintaining the Permanent
Endowment Fund.
Fifth: Immediate action by subordinate lodges in the creation of
the Fund to be appreciated and duly recognized by the Board of Trustees of the .Masonic Homes of California in such manner as may be
deemed appropriate by them.
Sixth: Such portion or portions of this Committee's ;eport .be
embodied in pamphlet form together with any other informat10n .which
may be deemed of importance, and said pamphlet be placed m the
hands of every Mason on the Roster of this Grand Lodge so far as
practicable to do so, at as early date as possible, preferably at sa~e
time instructions are promulgated to lodges rel~tive to the cr~ation
of the Permanent Endowment Fund referred to m these suggestions.
Seventh : That the , expense incurred in carrying out these suggestions is a proper charge, and be paid out of the ~eneral Fund ~f
this Grand Lodge, in same manner as other ex?enses incurred ~y this
Committee during the past year-as per special recommendation of
Finance Committee, page 205, proceedings 1911.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

107

Copy of Circular :
ENDOWMENT FUND COMMITTEE MASONIC HOMES,
Grand Lo~ge, F. & A. M., of California.
Dear Sir and Bro. :The Special Committee on Masonic Homes in its report at session of 1909, which was adopted, recommended the establishment of a
Permanent Endowment Fund of at least One Million Dollars for the
maintenance and support of the Masonic Homes of California. At the
last session of the Grand Lodge this Committee was appointed, and
we have now begun our labors.
The Committee is keenly sensible of the many difficulti-es attending the performance of so great an undertaking, and appreciate the
labor necessary to arouse the interest of the Craft, but feel that with
the assistance of the zealous and unselfish Masons, leaders in the
noble work, by their valuable and wise suggestions our work must be a
success.
Knowing your love for the Order, and the great interest manifested in all things which make for the good of the Order, we a:re
writing this to enlist your assistance. We will greatly appreciate
any suggestions you may see fit to 1tive tQ this Committee as to the
best method of procedure to arouse the interest of the Craft in this
jurisdiction in the movement towards creating this Endowment Fund
by donations, endowments, provisions in wills or otherwise.
This is not a request for a donation; we only want your ideas,
which will be appreciated.
Please give this your attention at your very earliest convenience.
Yours fraternally,

for the Committee.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THE MASONIC HOMES OF
CALIFORNIA.
It will possibly be news to many well informed Masons of the
State to learn that the proposal to found a Masonic Home in California was accepted by the First Grand Lodge, held in 1850. Vol. 1,
page 42, proceedings 1850, recites the donation of ten acres one mile
from Sacramento for a Masonic Home by Bro. A. M. Winn. This was
an unconditional offer and was accepted by the Gra~d Lodge. No

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND I,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

action beyond the appointment of Trustees was taken at that time.
Proceedings were continued from year to year until 1859, when it
was discoV1ered tha..t the land donated by Bro. Winn was included in
the Sutter Grant, and no further steps were taken with that land.
The matter of Home was not raised again until the year 1876, when
it was again recommended by tpe Grand Master, but no action was
taken. In 1880 a Committee was appointed, but it appears that nothing was done by that Committee. Efforts were made at the sessions
of 1889, 1890 and 1891 to establish a Home which was finally in the
latter year successful and the project took on new life. The Committee was sucoessful in arousing the. Cra.ft to the necessity of a Home.
Subscriptions were asked for and a generous response came from all
sides. At the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of 1892, reports showed subscriptions to the amount of $25,359.50 from 154 lodges
-and $19,400 from other sturces, mainly allied Masonic Bodies; also
included two private subscriptions of $5,000 and $2,000, respectively.
The year following the fund was increased to $57,142.50, and the present site at the Home · at Decoto, consisting of 267.46 acres, was purchas·ed at a cost of $33,093.00, and plans for the main building were
adopted. Matters were allowed · to remain in abeyance for the next
three years owing to the financial condition of the country. On October 14th, 1896, the Corner Stone of the Masonic Home at Decoto
was laid by the Grand Lodge in full form, Grand Master ·Preston
officiating. Grand Lodge attended in a body, and after the ceremony
was entertained at luncheon as gue·sts of Alameda Lodge No. 167. Ori
October 12th, 1898, the Home at Decoto was dedicated with full ceremony by the Grand Lodge, M. W. Thos. Flint, Grand Master. The
Grand Lodge attended in a body, escorted by Golden Gate Commandery No. 16, Knights Templar. By this time considerable enthusiasm had been aroused and the donations from the va:rious Masonic
Bodies, individual Masons, and other sources (among others a Masonic
Fair held in the City of San Francisco during the year of 1898 which
yielded the magnificent sum of $39,000.00) , were of such magnitude
as to warrant the Board of Trustees in making extensive improvements in the plans-and although the sum of $125,550.00 had been expended in the erection of Horne and acquiring the land, only $30,000
had come from the Grand Lodge funds. The Home was turned over
to the Grand Lodge free of all incumbrance. March, 1899, the Home
at Decoto was opened for the reception of residents and while the original intention was to restrict the beneficiaries to Widows and Orphans,
the Board of Trustees decided to receive also aged Brethren, and there
wer-e accommodated and cared for the first year 16 men, 5 women,
IO boys and 6 girls, a total of 37. This number was gradually increased until in 1908 there were resident at the Home 138 people,

109

the average being 114 e
.
.
of 1589 have been take: :a:enn~m for the years 1899 to 1912. A total
for in a Horne of which
o ed, clothed and comforta:bly provided
able pride.
every ason should have a just and pardon-

i,f

In 1903, Brother Morris Sirnin~ff of Fid .
San Francisco, moved by a stron lo
ehty Lo_dge No. 120, of
erected at an expense to him f g 30ve of the fraternity, ca used to be
grounds adjoining the men's c~tta$ ,(XX), a .fi~e brick building on the
16 rooms and the ~pper floor an Agesd, .co~tammg on the ground floor
u itormm , with pi pe organ. T his
.
bu1"Id'mg was accepted by th T
Temple-a magnificent exarn~l-e r::t:~se~~~ dedica~ed as the Si~inoff
comfort and pleasure of his less f t
bh devotion to the welfare,
or unate rethren.
. ~he Masonic Home of Southern C 1"f
.
• •
bmldmg with accomrnodat·
f
a I orma, cons1stmg of a large
·
ions
or
two
hundred
I
beautiful grounds ten acre .
.
peop e, surrounded by
s m extent, furnished and
d f
pancy, conservatively valued at $65 000
.
rea y or occuzealous, warm hearted brethr
was the gift of those sterling,
This rnagnificient gift was accep~~d ~y !he ~o~t~r? part of this State.
!or, on behalf of the Grand Lod '
Grand Master Lawchildren under the care of the M ~e, an on September 17th, 1909, the
San Gabriel, a wise and benefi . ~ ron were trans~erred from Decoto to
In 1910 V .
.
c1a move on the part of the Trustees.
' · • W. · Edward Coleman ou be! d
?ad erected at an expense to him of $30 Ooo r
ove Grand !reasurer,
mg on the Horne grounds at D
' . ' a handsome Hospital Bui!dLodge, and it was accepted wit~o:~· wh1c~ hde presented to the Grand
e gratitu e of the fraternity
From the bequests of s
I b
•
the Board of Trustees fro;ve~a reth~en coming into the hands of
1910 a fund known as the p
time toE time, there was established in
Hornes of California with thermanentf ndowrnent Fun~ of the Masonic
I
N
h
.
,
e sum o $30 (XX) as a
d f '
nuc eus.
o part of
t e prmcipal of this fund can b
thereon to be used and that t e u.se or any purpose, only the interest
Hornes. This fund in 1912o ago mto dthe General Fund of the Masonic
,
mounte to $33,297.86.

f h

J ·· ··

To quote from the report of the T
"Fund":
rustees in establishing this
"Thus a nucleus is created for a F d
.
short time will grow to such ro r . un wh1c~ we trust in a very
Hornes withou.t the necessity
po hons . as will take care of our
name of the honol'ed and loyal ~a::r oap~ta ~ax, . and the cherished
our book of gold 'as one that lo
h~· wf hi ich m hfe, was written in
'whom Iove of God had blest , . vesf is e .low .man •' an d a Iso as one
Charities lead all the rest." , w1 11 orever in this greatest of Masonic

of

no

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The aim and purpose of this Grand Lodge is to do just what the
Trustees hoped for, create a sufficient Endowment Fund which will
forever do away with the necessity for a per capita tax. One Million
Dollars will do this, '<Ind with the present membership of approximately Fifty Thousand, the raising of the desired sum ought to be a •
work of love, and occupy no greatly extended time.

DISBURSl!Ml!NTS.

Total cash disbursed, all accounts .......................... 677,599.68

Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD

s. VAUNTJNl!,

DECOTO HOME .. ... ... ........... . ........ $568,027.51

EDWARD CoutMAN,

Real estate ....... ... ...... ...... $ 45,469.90

H. MACLAI"Jll!RTY,
WIU.JAM P. FILMl!R,

Ruildings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 153,089.20

JAMES

CHARUS

111

w. NORTON,

MOTLEY H. FLINT,

Farm and its equipment.. .. ...... . .

15,340.64

Water supply and sewer.. ....... .

19,969.38
21,CXX).()O

Enw ARD STRASBURG,

General equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

WILLIAM E. ]. BAUGHMAN,

Opera.ting expense ................ 297,553.02

Gl!ORGli M. Pl!RINJ!.

Insurance taxes and interest. . . . . . . .
Miscellaneous .. ...... . .. .. . .. . .. ..

6,262.20
9,343.17

(Includes funerals and sundries.)
STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
1892 to 1912-lnclusiV'e.

SAN GABRIEL HOME:.. .... ...... ......... 52,411.92
Building repairs ...... . ... ........ $ 5,479.96
Farm and -equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2,235.65

Operating expense . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

41,937.48

Rl!Cl!IPTS.

Tnsurance taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .

1,547.45

Cash received from all sources .... . ..................... .. $699,616.26
Grand Lodge donations .................•... , .. $ 50,919.00
Grand Lodge per capita tax .. .... ............ 417,205.78
Masonic Bodies-various. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64,500.04
Individual donations ...................... ffi . .. 123,814.45
All other sources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43,179.99
Farm sales and rentals. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33,675.94
Interest and miscellaneous. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,629.23
Insurance rebate ...... ....... ... ....... .......
1,871.82

Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
FUNDS

1,211.38

····················· ······ ...... ... . 57,160.25

Permanent Endowment . . .......... $ 33,297.86
Rule No. 16.......... . ............

3,981.40

Resident's deposits ............... .
Entertainment

1,890.58

Headstone

5(J().OO

... ·················
····· ·········· ·· ··· ·· ·

630.50

Balanc General Fund .............. ,., ......... , ........ $ 16,799.91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LObGE OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT OF THE ASSETS OF THE MASON IC HOMES
OF CALIFORNIA-SEPTEMBER 1, 1912.

RESIDENTS AT H01dl!S.

112

Real es~te other than at Homes . ......... . . . . . ..... . • ... . $ l,!XX>.CO
DECOTO HOME-Real esta>te, 2.67.47 acres... . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45,469.90
Buildings .... . .. . .... . . ·.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156,500.00
Main-brick ... ....... . .. .. . ..... . . . . ... . . . $ 54,(X)().OO
Annex-brick . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20,<XX:l.00
Simino ff Temple-brick. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . 30,000.00
Coleman Hospital and Equipment-brick. . . . 30,<XX:l.OO
Bridge-main and annex ... . . .. . .. . .. .... . 3,<XX:l.00
5 Cottages-frame ... . .. . .. . ....... . .. . .. . . 10,000.00
2 Cottag·es for Employees-frame ... .. ... . . 2,500.00
Laundry Buildings ...... .. ...... . . . .. . ... .
Steam Heating Plant . .. .. . . . . . . . . . .. . .. . . 7,<XX:l.00
8,850.00
8 Farm Buildings, Sheds, Etc .... . .. ... . .. .
19,704.64
Sundry Improvements, viz ...... . .: . . . . ... .
2 Water Springs and Piping....... . .. ..... . 6,500.00
3 Reservoirs .. . ...... . . .. . . . .. .. . . ... .... . 8,<XX:l.00
Septic Tank System .. . ... .. .... . .. . ..... . . 2,500.00
704.64
Windmill, Tank and Well ...... .. .... .. . ... .
Fencing and Stone Arch . ... ..... ........ .. . . 2,<XX:l.00
General Equipment-Dining-room, kitchen,
21,218.40
bedrooms a nd hospital equipment. . ... .
2,00).00
Groceries and Supplies .... ...... . . ...... . .
FARM-Stables, horses, vehicles, harness, Implements, livestock, poultry, tilacksmith shop,
tools, hay, grain, etc . ... . ... ... .. .... ...... . .... .... . . · 5,809.50
SAN GABRIEL HOME . . .. . . . . . .. ...... . .. ... .. ... . . .. . . 70,300.00
Real estate . • ... ... .... . .. . ... ... ..... ... $ 21,800.00
Buildings and improvements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45,000.00
Equipment and supplies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,500.00
Total net assoets, other than Oash Funds .... . .. ... ..... . . . '. . 329,752.44
Total of all Cash and Security Funds. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40,360.34
Permanent Endowment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33,297.86
Various ... ...... . ·. .... .. .. ... . . . . .. . . . . . . 7,062.48
Cash Balance General Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16,799.91
Net Assets . .. .. . . ...... . ..... ..... . .. .. . . ... ..... $386,912.69

113

DECOTO HOMEI •1tal number care for 1899 to 1912 .. ..•... . .. ...• , .. ,,..... . .. 11589
vtrage number per annum ..... . .... , .. .. .. ....... .. ... .. .. , .
114
Average cost of maintenance per capita per annum . •.. ... . . . .. $165.82
( C<ist ihcludes per80i1al care of residents, ta hie, food, clothing,
tr 1 elsa repairs and lmptoYements tb building$, fatm attd plattt1
u W>ell as adtninistratiott expertile~.}
SAN GABRIEL HOMETot11I number cared for 1910 to 1912..... . .. ... . . ........ .. ...
149
.\ verage rtumber per annum .... . ; .......... ... . . ....... ... . ..
SO
\ vcrage cost of maintfoance per capita per annum . ....... ... . .. $279.58

Which report was appro\red and the recommendations
therein contalhed were adt>ptt!d, except as to the tnatter of
further expense on the part of the Committee, which was
1d erred to the Ccnt1111lttee on F!nattte.
V. W. Thomas. J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, presented the
following annual report:
To the M.'. w.'. Gr and Lodge of Callfomia:
I herewith submit to you my report as Grand Lecturer. Attothet
year has passed, and another mile stone has been added to the
Masonic History of this Jurisdiction.
'The increasing growth and prosperity demonstrates · the fact that
this Grand Institution which has ever been for the enlightenment and
betterment of mankind, Is still rnaintainirti Its reputation, caring for the
Widow artd Orphart and the Brother in rteed with that same silent artd
unostentations manner which has e'Ver beert Its \Vont.
The wonderful gtowth of our Fratetnlty which has taken place in
the last few years, makM one sometimes \Vottder whether Masortry
I• becotrtlng too popular, and whether we investigate the charactet of
our applicaflts for admission as we should. Too much care cannot ~
taken in this respect. The Lodge should always be givett the benefit
of the doubt. The applicant '!tas tedress, but the tod~e itas none.
Masonty Is no reform scliool, but it can artd does make good merl
better.
!
8

PROCEEDINGS OF "THE

GRAND LODGE dF' CALIFORNIA

Speci.a·I care should be taken in the selection of the Brethren who
are to fill the various ·stations ;i.nd· places- in tire Lodges. The Secretary
of the Lodge should be chosen with a great deal of. care as to his ability,
for much depends upon the Secretary. Masters c~m·e a~d go, but good
··Secretaries should go on forever. ·
· ~
The Anno!Ja-ted Constitution which was adopted at ·the la'st Com. 'munication and which has since been published . and is now in circulation,'-has pr6v>ed a great· help· to 'the Brethren and bas filled a long
felt want. Much praise is giveh by the ·Brethren throughout the State
for this valwuable publication and the thanks of this Grand Lodge ..should
be extended to its author.
The custom which was inaugurated-' of havirig lhe Inspectors of
.San Francisco and the Bay Counties confer Degrees in the different
Lodges, has proved of gr~at benefit and -interest_ to the· Brethre.n. In
·the past year there have ..been · sixteen Degrees conferred by the
Inspectors, and many requests for Degrees are now waiting. All these
meetings have ben largely: atterided by officers and Brethren of the
various Lodges, which we.r e bot~· instructive and entertaining to. those
jn attendance.•.
I have visited every district in the .State. and held schools of instruction, both ooy and night sessions. Most of the schools have been
well attended by the officers and Brethren and much interest mani!ested by t~ in their desire. to perfect themselves in _the work.
There is a marked improvement in. the ritualistic w.ork in the
Lodges throughout the State.
·
I desire to thank the Inspectors for their valuable assistance and
.courtesy to me during the year. The great improvement · in the work
is due 1'o their :visits, and Lodges of instruction and the great interest
the Inspectors take in the work, many .of whom are busy men, yet
they find time to instru<;t the Officers and visit .the Lodges in the
~istricts un~er their care.
I have received reports from all the Inspectors, and they report
most of their Lodges in good financial condition and a large majority
of them show a gain in membership.
. . .I no.t e .wit.h much pleasure "that many more of. the Lodges are
teaching their Can.didates the .Third Degree -coaching lecture.. This
is .of much benefit to the Candidate, for when he. has learned the
.lecture of the Third Degree he has no dread oJ visiting a Lodge
where he ljas . to be eioamined. Many Brethren lo.o k forward with
.ipuch ;i,ppr~hension. to their first e:icamination. I trust that many more
9f the Lodges will a~opt this lecture and teach it to their ca.ndidates.
I had the pleasure of accompanying the Most Worshipful Grand
Master on many of his visits and enjoyed his beautiful and instructive

Masonic thoughts, which were expounded to the Brethren on these
•>Ccasions with so much eloquence and which the Brethren greatly. enjoyed arid appreeiatecL These visits of the Grand Master do ·vast
t ••
amount of good, particularly in the small Lodges.
.
I desire. t~ .t hank '. the V ~ry Worship£~! Grand Sec~·eta~y; ~ncl his
Assistant for the cour~esies extended to me in their oftice. dt1ring the
year.
The B'r ethren throughout the State have been .looking forward
with a great deal of anticipation to this Communication .o f the Grand
Lodge, many of whom are ava1ling themselves of. this opportunity to
visit the beautiful Southland for the first time, and .from the .program
which has been arranged for the entertain,t itent.0f the Grand L<:>dge, .all
will carry . home pleasant memories of the Sixty-thicd Communica1ion,
and many thank~ .to .the . Brethren of Southern California for their
grand and lavish entertainment.
··
There have ·been eleven new Lodges formed .during '•the year, all
which show a ·g06d healthy gain since organization. . '
Our membership ·now ·'totals more than Forty-eight. THousand and
the net gain for this yeat being Twenty-five Hundred.'
' ·:
Several new Temples 'have been erected and d~dicated during the
year, which shows ~he.. 'prosperous financial c~~?itio~. oi the .~dges.
The prevailing ambition
their home.
.
.among
.. . the Lodges is to own
'

:114

•

· '·

,.

I

"

115

1

·a

Lodges of · instruction have been held at 'the <folfowing · p'1aces ·and
times :
1911. .
Oroville, November 2L
Oakland, October 22:
Los Banos, November 23.
Vacaville, October 27. '
Newman, November ·24.
Winters; October 28~29.
San Jose, "November 26.
Eureka, November 5. ' ·
Healdsburg, November 27.
Ferndale, November 6.
Cloverdale, November 28.
Rhonerville, November 7.
Windsor, N·o~mber 29.
Arcata, November 8.
Sebastopal, November 30.
Eureka, November 9-10.
Santa Rosa, December 1.
Red Bluff, November 13.
Fresno, December 3.
Corning, November 14.
Wheatland; ·December 8.
Orland, November 15.
Penryn, December 9.
Willows, November 15.
Auburn, December 10. ' ·
Williams, November' 17.
Madison, December 22.
Yolo, November 18.
Sacramento, December 23-24.
Wl()()dland, November 19:
Lincoln, December
Chico, November 20.

JO;ij l.

l • t;~

.., I ...

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

· GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1912.

lJavts, Jiiriultry 2.

Behi~a, Jahtilti'y 3.

Pacific Grove, Janttary S.
Red Bltiff, J!ittuary 10.
't~haltta1 J attl.Mi'ty i 1.
Los Banos, January 13-14.
Turlock, J anltary 15.
Modesto, January 16.
Mercec\, January 17.
Oakland, January 21.
&edwbod City1 Janullry 29.
Kerman; Febrtiaty 2.
Selina; Februaty 3.
Reedley, February 4.
Exeter, February 5.
Lindsay, February 6.
Tulare, February 7.
Leinoore, Pebruary 8.
Coo•linga, February 9.
Winford, Febtuitty 10.
Debtrlo, ttebruary 11.
Taft, Febrhaty 12.
Bakersfield, February 13.
Needles, February 14-15.
San Bernardino, February 16.
Colton, February 17.
El Centro, F'ebruary 18.
Holtville, February 19.
Brawley, February 20.
Perris, February 21.
Elsinore, February 22.
Corona, February 23.
Los Angeles, February 25-26.
Ocean Park, February 27.
Redondo, Pebruary 29.
Santa Monica, March 1.
Whittier, March 2-j.
Alhambna, March 4.
Pasadena, March 5.
Pomona, March 6.
Upland, March 7. ·
Covina, March S.
Glendora, March 9.

Long i3eatli, Ml!tch 10-ii.
Pul1erton, Mateh 12.
Sahtll Ana, Marth H.
Fall brook, March 14.
EAC:ondld<l, Match 15.
San Diego, March 16-17.
Williams, March 24.
Forest Hill, Match 26.
Newman, Match 29.
Seltnlt, March 31.
San Mateo, April 20.
RedW10od City, April 21.
St. Helena, April 22.
Napa, April 23.
Calistoga, April 24.
Woodbridge, May 3.
Linden, May 4.
Stockton, May S.
Campbell, May g_
Los Oatos, May '1.
Gilroy, May. 8.
Sart Jo~e, :May 9.
Richmond, May 10.
:Martinez, :May 12.
Ukiah, May 13-14.
Fort Bragg, May 15.
Mendocino, :May 1~.
Point Arena, May 17-18.
El Dorado, May 25.
Placerville, May 26.
Sacramento, May tJ.
Suisun, May 28.
San Francisco, June 2.
Ione, June 3.
Jacks~n, June 4.
Sutter Creek, june 5.
San Andreas, June 6.
Angels Camp, June
Sonora, June It
Oakdale, Junie 9.
Merced, June 13.
Mariposa, June 14.
Berkeley, June 23.

7:

Pinole, June 25.
Elk Grove, June 30.
San Miguel, July 5.
Cambria, July 6.
Orroyo Grande, July 7.
Guadalupe, July 8.
Lompoc,' July 9.
Fillmore, July 10.
Oxnard, July 11.
Santa Barbara, July 12.
Santa Maria, July 13.
San Luis Obispo, July 14.
Anderoon, July 16.
Redding, July 17.
Weaverville, July 18-19.
Sh<1st<1, July 20.
Dunsmuir, July 21.
McCloud, July 22.
Y rek<1, July 23.
Etna Mills, July 24.
Fort Jones, July. 25 . .
Vallejo, July 28.
Dutch Flat, July 30,
Janesvil111, Auguit 1.
Susanville, August 2.
Alturas, August 3-4.
Fort Bidwell, August 5-6.
<A!d<1rville1 .f\qgust 7.
l\din, Au~st 8.

117

Sebastopol, August 10.
Petaluma, August 11.
Mill Valley, Augu~t 12.
San Rafael, August 13.
Colfax, August 16.
Grass Valley, August 17.
Nevada City, August 18.
Camptonville, August 19.
Alleghany, August 20.
Downieville, August 21.
Sierraville, August 2i
Loyalton, Augu'st 23.
Beckwith, August 24.
Greenville, August 25.
Quincy, Augu1t 26.
La Porte, Augus~ 27.
Or.ovjlle, Augqst 28.
Bodie, September 2-3-4.
Bishop, September 6-7.
Big Pine, September 8.
Independence, September 9.
Tehachapi, September 10.
Lakeport, September 17-18.
Oakland, September 22.
Salinas, ~eptember ~.
Monterey, September 25.
Pacific Grove, September 26.
San Fraric.isco, Septernber 29.
Los AngeJ.e$, October· 6-7.

Thaµking the Grand Lodge and the Brethren for the honor and
confidence they have reposed In me as their Grand Lecturer, I present
my .a·nnual l'CpPrt.
·
Re.11pectfully si.ibinitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKER,

Grand Lecturer.

Which was r:eferred to a Sp~cial Cornmitte~ eompo1i¢d of
Bradford Webster, John B. Osborn anq fn19 E. Vincent.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The foJ.lowing beautiful letter was read from V.'. _W.'.
Edward Coleman, Grand Treasurer.

·>f erecting the Temple has been almost without interruption and at

118,

To the M.'. w:. Grand lodge of California:
I am very sorry I cannot · meet with you and the brethren at the ·
coming Annual Communication bo be held in the City of Los Angieles.
I am sure it will be an· occasion of much interest to the Craft, as
well as a great Joy to partake of the hospitality and good cheer
which await you in the far famed City of the South. But my doctor.·
advises me that it would not be prudent to "expend my strength
in the long journey and then join in the duties and business, as well
as the social activities which I know await the brethr,en in this, the
annual gathering of our Ancient Craft.
For these I'easons I deem it prudent to forego the pleasure · of
filling my alloted station among the Officers of the Grand Lodge.
But, be assured I shall be with you in spirit with the recollection of the '
friendships and fraternal greetings of many whose faces were once
familiar in our midst but are now enjoying the richer and more '
enduring companionship of those who, having completed their earthly
pilgrimage, are now resting from fheir labors where friendship continues forevermore.
Fraternally yours,
EDWARD CoU:MAN,

Grand Treasurer:

It appearing also that M. ". W ,'. Charles L. Pattoni could
not attend Grand Lodgie because of ill health, the Grand
Master 'a·s ked the Grand Lodge, as an expression of · sympathy and brotherly love, to rise and join with him in an
order to the Grand Secretary to send. a telegram to Brothers
Patton and Coleman, expre~sive of the love in whkh they
were held by the entire fraternity. The telegrams were
duly wired, and character"istic responses received in reply.

The Grand Secretary read the report of Brother William
H. Crocker, President of the Masonic Temple' Associati~ri of
California; as follows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of. California:
The Board of Directors of the Masonic Temple Association of
. California are pleas·ed to report that splendid progress has been made
in building the Temple.

119··

Since the laying of the cornerstone on October 11, 1911, the work
this date, Octbber 1st, 1912, the massive steel fram·e is entirely erected,
the exterior stone finish is in place to the hei'ght 'o f the fourth floor
and much of the interior partition work, plumbing, etc., is finished.
Concrete walls on sides, rear of the building and interior, are als6 in
place as far as the construction will permit, and the partitions bl'tween
the lodge room and halls are now in process· of construction.
Our architects and our superintendent of construction give assur11·nce that the building will be ready for occupancy about the first of
May, 1913.
The subscriptions for stock received from the various Masonic
Bodies and individuals are as follows:
GRAND BODIES :

Grand Lodge, F. & A. M ........... ..... ...... $250,<XXJ
Grand Commandery, K. T ...... ...... ....... ". . 4-0,<XXJ
Grand Chapter, R. A. M. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60,<XXJ
$350,000
MASONIC BODIES OF SAN FRANCISCO:

California Lodge, No. 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $50,4-00
Golden Ge'te Lodge, No. J<i. .. . .. .. . .. . .. .. . .. . 10,000
Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44 ................. . 15,000
Fidelity Lodge, No. 120 ....................... . 25,<XXJ
Hermann Lodge, No. 127 ................. , ... . 5,<XXJ
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ........................ .. 5,000
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 ...................... .. 7,500
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166 ............... , ..... . 20,000
Mission Lodge, No. 169 ... .. .................. .
l,<XXJ
Doric Lodge, No. 216 .. .- ................... , .. , 7,500
Speranza Lodge, No. 219 ..................... . 3,000
Starr King Lodge, N~. 344 ................... , 1,000
Presidio Lodge, No. 354 ....................... , 1,000
Amity Lodge, No. 370 ........................ ..
1,000
San Francisco Lodge, No. 360 ................. . 1,000
La Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 17 ............. . 1,000
Richmond Lodge, No. 375 ....... ; ............ ..
100
Parnassu~ Lodge, No. 388 ... .................. .
50
C~lifornia. Scottish Rite Bodies . .............. .
500
Oa~ifomia Chapter, R. A. M., No. 5 ........... . 30,000
·California OOmmandery, No. 1: ............... . 30,000
$215,050

1~

PJ!,OCEEDINGS OF TH~

GRAND LODGE OF 0.A.Lli'ORNIA

121

E1timated cost of building .. . .......... . ......•..... $622,915
I.ot • • • . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257,000
lbtimated cost of furnishing. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75,<XX>

OTHiiR MASONIC Boon:s :

Sotoyqme Lodge, No. 123 ..... . ............. . ..• $ 500
Franklin Lodge, No. 143 ... .'.. . .. . .... . .. ... ... .
500
Abell Lodge, No. 146 .............. , ........ . ..
l,<XX>
Antioch Lodge, No. 175 ....................... .
100
King David Lodge, No. 209 ...•..••..•....•...•
100
Magnolia Lodge, No. 242 ............ . .......... .
100
Alta Lodge, No. 333 . .......................... .
750
McKinley Lodge, No. 347 .. , ............. . . . .. .
250
Willits Lodge, No. 365 ......................... .
100
Mokelumne Lodge, No. 298 .. . .. ... .. .... . . . ..•
100
1,(XX)
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21. .. .. .. ...... •. ... . .. ...
· Evening Star Lodge, No. 186 ... . .. ........... .
100
1,(XX)
Naval Chapter, R. A. M., No. 35 ............... .
&l!Il Luis Chapter, R. A. M., No. 62 ........ .. . .
50
San Luis Commandery, K. 'T., No. 27 ......... .
30
Evening Star, 0 . E. S., No. 10 ......... .... . :.
100
Adin Lodge, 0 . E. S., No. 25 ................. .
200
Sapphire Chapter, 0. E. S ............ ... .... . . .
100
Sotoyome Chapter, 0. E. S., No. 82 ........... .
250
Surprise Chapter, 0. E. S., No. 186 ... ........ .
30
Miramar Chapter, 0. E. S., No. 205 ........... .
50
Carquinez Lodge, No. 337 . .................... .
100
ClintJOn Lodge, No. 119 .•... .. ......•.. . .... . ..
100
Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243 ..................... .
1,500
Hornitos Lodge, No. 98 ....... . .. .. ........ . .. .
200
Mill Valley Lodge, No. 356 .. . .. ... .. .. .. : .... .
10
Solano Lodge, No. 229 .......... .. .... : ... .. . .
500
Humboldt Chapter, R. A. M., No. 52 . ........ .. .
500
Eureka Commandery, K. T., No. 35 ... . ....... :
500
Mt. Shasta Commandery, K. T ., No. 32 ... , . .. .
. 200
Stella Chapter, 0. E . S., No. 39 .... ...... : . ... . .
50

$954,975
Total va:lid subscriptions ............................ $640,000
Mortgage authorized ............................ . ... 250,000

890,000

$64,975
The labors of the Directors and Executive Committee have been
lightened by the very encouraging moral support given them by the
fraternity at large and also by the prompt payments of most of the
subscribers.
Sufficient funds have been subscribed to complete the building
and the Baa1rd of Directors are now ready to enter into contracts
for the furnishings. For this purpose $64,975.00 is required, and if
the Temple is to be occupied when finished the furnishings must be
ordered at once.
We therefore once more appeal to the great fraternity of California to a~sist us by your further supscrjptions.
Since the beginning of the construction of the Temple, some
seven or eight blocks of our San Francisco property have been
dedicated by the City for the purpose of a Civic Cen~r, and our
City Hall aml other fllonumental Civic buildings are to be erected
immediately. Thi~ pas already very greatly enhanced the value of our
property.

Making a Grand Total of.. .. .. . . . . .. . . .. . .. . . .. .. . . .. $670,570
Cash Expenditures to October 1, 1912 ...................... $525,5Q6.48
Cash Receipts to October 1, 1912 ........ . ....... . .. , ...... 517,794.49

The financial success of the new Temple bids fair, in a very few
years to rival that of the old 'l'ell}ple, which after twelve years of
stq\g8'1e to fi~nce, finflllY paid in dividend$ twelve per cent per
annum on the par valµe of the st9ck, atJd ~t the diesolution of tile
.t\$~o~i;1tion in 19071 paid to its stoc~)lolder1 over thiit11-tbtie11 dollara
a ~hare fpr itoc" of which tqe par v~lu~ wat ten dollar~. One lo die
a!Qne re~eivi~~ pack over $44,CXXl on iaiq in'lfl:ihllePt of 0111¥ $laµxl.
In view oi this would it not ~eern wj~e tQ invnt in thia stoc~ now
while it !s ~ell\1ur at pjlr?
·

$?17q.99

'T hree '11mlfrtd •ml fift~-ni11e individuill Mal!Qllt have shown their
loy1ltl' iQ M'.1mmrY im4 their faithi in the fu~uro of our Ti:mplo by

INDIVIDUAL MASONS ••• ••••• .•• ' • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

Overdraft •. ..... .. . ..... . •. .. , . . . . . • • . . . . . • . . . • . • . . . .

$!0,070
95,450

s11bs~ri\linfI "64,Q(fi.OO.

122 '

PROCEEDINGs · oF THE

' )

Are there not three hundred and fifty-nine others who will
subscribe a like amount? If so, our Lodges, Chapters and Commanderies, etc., can occupy the building when it is completed and a revenue
from the building can be had at . once.
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CAI.IFORNIA.
By WM. H. CROCKER, President.

The report was ordered spread upon the minutes.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Wednesday morning.

3Jn ~rnnh i4nhgr.
·Wednesday,'October 9, A. L. 5912. ·
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'·clock a. m., the
Grand Master pres·iding.
The minutes of yesterday's sess10n ·were read and approved.
Brother Francis V. Keesling, Chairman of the Special
Comrni,ttee to whom had been referred the Address of the
Grand 'Master and the Report of the 'Grand Secretary, present~d the report of his Committee, as follows:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Californ'ia:
Your com'mittee to whom were refer,r.ed the Address of the Grand
Master and the· R~port of the Grand · Secretary delivered and · renqered ·
to the · Grand 'Lodge at this session, primarily in submitting · its report ·
desires to ' comp1id!.'ent · the ' M.". · w:. Grand Master on the high
morill ·character of his ·address, and the R.". W .". Grand Secretary on .
the 'conciseness : and ·thoroughness of his ·report.
We commend to the Grand Lodge careful · conside11ati6n of the
addtiess and the· report, particularly of such ·portions thereof as ' are ·
not t:I.isttdbuted Ao "the -c~mmittee, and• morn particularly that which
refers to personal services rendered and sacrifices made 'in '.behalf of
the craft, that due approval and appreciation may in a measure reward
the diligent during their lifetime.

GRAND LODGE OF -C,A_,.LIFORNIA

123

We recommend appropriiate expressjo.n of the appreciation of this
Grand Lo<lge of the inter.esting and valuable gifts to .. the Grand·
LQdge as reported by the. Grand Secretary.
. .
We recommend that a special. committee q~ appointed to consider:
the index system for visitors and the advisability of the adoption:
of a uniform system . ..
.
.
We . recommend appropriate expression 9f the appreciation of the-.
Grand Lodge to M.". W.". Brother · Weller for his revision of the.
funeral service..
..
we recommend the following tli~trib'ution:
To ·the Finance Committee: The approval of the purch.ase o·f the
portrait of the V.". W.". · Brother Coleman.'
The requiest of the Gmnd Secretary of the "Supreme Governmen~
of the Grand East of the Netherlands" for a contribution toward
a sum ·to provide six g~eat electric candles for the great meeting
hall of the Court of Arbitration.
The request of the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Arkansas and brethren of Hot Springs Lodge No. 62 for a contribution for . .the purpose of the erection of a Masonic building for
invalid Masons at Hot Springs, Arkansas.
The matter of the authorization of the Grand Master to ·appoint
a representative from the Grand Lodge to attend the George Washington Masonic Association to be held at Alexandria, Va., F1e·bruary
22, 1913.
The disbursements of the Grand Secretary.
To the Jurisprudence Comm#tee: . (1) The decision of the
M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master relative ' to the status of Masons residing in
California and made' in Douglas Lodge No. 12, of Nevada, and the
method of making them regular.
(2) The recommendation . that the Jurisprudence Committee
report a Constitutronal amendm~t providing for a .Rrtual Committee.
(3) The recommendation of the. Cr11nd Secretary that life members
be required to procure annual certificates or cards of membership.
( 4) The granting of permission to Eel River Lodge No. 147 to
,
move its pla~e of meeting.
(5) The request of Hot Springs Lodge of endorsement.
To the Committee on Charters: (1) The several: .dispensations
for those Lodges mentioned in the address · and .referred to in the·
repprt, and . t,h.e p.e~ition,s . o~ the. ne'Y L~dg~s t~ be. p_erpetu~ted by
Charter.
·
·
•
·•
.
.,.
·..
"
By-Laws Committee: (1) The recommendation that Qy-ta:Ws be
ameiided · so.. that
the·" ttreasurer
and
se-cretary
shall iriake
th~ir· semi...
- ' .
• •• ,
•
• ' . ·•.
annual reportnn July and January of each year instead of m June and,
December.

124

125

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(2) The matter of insuring the uniformity of by-la\)'s, with
particular reference to those old Lodges referred to by the Gqm<t
Secretary, and for this purpose to obtain copies of the by-laws of
the respective Lodges a~d call their attentjon to any deviatiop. from
the uniform code.
To the Ritual Committee: (1) Tqe recommendation that an
amendment to the Constitution be adopted requiring additional gualificatLon of the candidate In the Third Degree.
To the Incoming M.'. w:. qraind Mf:!sfer: (1) The reports of
the Inspectors to be submitted by his predecessor.
(2) The communication of the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of Puerto Rico referred to the chairman of the. Committee on Correspondence.
(3) The communication of ''The International Masonic Club of
London" referred to the Chairman of the Committee on ·correspondence.
Relative to the declaration of the M.'. w:. Grand Master that
the Constitutional amendment providing that Lodges shall not receive
petitions for the degrees or for affiliatioQ from men engagecl ill the
saloon business, also making it a M·asonic offense for Masons hereiifter
to enter upon that business, we presume it is unnecessary to direct
the attention of the Grand Lodge that that ~mendment was reported
from the Jurisprudence Committee at its last session, with the
comment that if ther,e was to be any legisl~tion on the s4pject, the
amendment in the form offered would be th.e least objectionable.
RespectfuJly subllJ.itted,
·

Record No. 116, Golden State Lodge 1 Nci, 358, utpelled April 4,
1912.
Record No. 104, Yount Lodge, No. 12, expelled dctober 31, 1911.
Record No. 112, California Lodge, No. 11 expelled March 7, 191A!.
Record No. 111, Lodi Lodge, No. 256, expelled February 29, 1912.
Record No. 98, Lodi Lodge, No. 256, expelled February 29, 1912.
Record No. 101, Friendship Lodge, No. 2101 expelled October
5, 19i 1.
Record No. i02, Excelsior lodg1e, No. 166, suspended January
3, 1912.
Recdtlt Nd. 1~, Crockett Lodge, No. 139, expelled January 31 1912.
Record No. 88, Yosemite Lodge, No. 133, trial by La Grange
Lodge, No. !i9, expelled February 6, 19i2.
Record Mo. 100, Los Angeles l,odge, No. 42, tJ(pelleci ddober
2, 1911.
.
Record No. 102, Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, expelled October 6, 1911.
Record No. 89, Oceanic Lodge, No, ~71, tl!-trled by Satit4 Cruz
Lodge, Nd. 38, expelled February 10, 191Z.
Record No. 106, Sotoyome Lodge, No. 123, expelled Decembet
7, 1911.
Record Nu. 107, Eel River Lodge, No. 147, eiqieiled ~cetrtber
301 1911.
Recbrd No. 119, Martinez Ltldjte, No. 41', tried by Eureka Lbdge,
No. 16, dtpelled February 26, 191?.
We beg lea'\l"e w teptirt that · all the above recotds show that
trials were had in accordance •ith our MMonlc law. No appeals
having been taken and the tecordtt being correct; substantial
justice having been meted out to the accu~ed in all the cases. We
therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of the several Lodges as herein above
set forth be, and the same are hereby approved and confirimd.
H. M. Ow!NS,
FR!iD L. ARBOGAST,
G!iO. E. CHURCH,
A. B. W!iBST!R,
G!io. H. BURCHARD.

F. v. E:!!JiSJiII'fG,
FR!in

w. Lu B.upsTJiR.

The report was adopted, and the distribution of subjects
order,ed as recommended.

Brother Henry M. Owens, Chairman of the Cqmmittee
on Grievances, repprteq the fqJlowirt{ 11 ornniJ:>Hs re:port" as
to tri<1-) recorqs :
·
To the M.'. w:. Grand f.oflge of California:
Your Committee to whom was neferred the trial records of the
foltowin~ ~allJ.ed ca~e~, te>-wjt :
R.eccmJ Np. 12~, Nav11I l.Pdie, ijo. IU, @JDel!p4 M11rch 2l, l9l?·
a.ei:orcl Itl9. 1;m, Soi.ith 411te J.,odl(~, NQ. ~~. e:J:peJJc!l AllriJ ~.
1912.

The report and recommendation were adopted as read.

126

:.: l':.PROCEEDINGS. OF TRE. ; . ·;

· .Brother Owens, from the same Committee, also presented
~he ~o11~.wing : . .
. .
_
·
.To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge· of California:

·: . _Y-0ur· Com~itt~e to whcim was " referred the· petition for ·restor:ation -·of ." Record -No. 860, formerly ' a mt;mber of Fresidio Lodge,
No, 354, ·F. ·& A. M., and who was fried and expelled by said Lodge
_o n or ab(mt the 24th day of May, 1910, for unmasonic conduct; ' report
as · follows : ·
·. ·:
· . .'
·
··
. It appears· 'Uiat the petitioner was in the r.<\ilwa;v.: mail ·~el"Vice,
·and had op'ene<l a letter· not addre.ssed; ' to him ';• he ' was sentenced
seilt~nc~ Of' thirty
by the United 'States Distri,ct ·'c:::o~rt t6' .S~rte
_d~ys in .the . c~~nty _ja~l of. :A~amed~ ·:co~O:ty, ;fin,ed $1,oo.oo; arid 'forfeited his position m the' railway nilaiil sei'vioe whii:h ' he had held
for twenty years.
·

i

~ . P~itioner has three. da1.1ghf~rs, . add ask~ that he be restored
to all of the rights and privileges · of Masonry as 'much - for their
_sake . as his own. .
.· ·_. . , . . ·,. ,. · .
'_,' · · · ·
Petitioner has ~?1plied with the law in miaking this application ;
appended to. the petition .are l_ett~rs fr.om pe_tson~ 'by :whom petitioner
has been employed, commending him. His furmer Lodge· makes
.no · obj~ti_o.~, and we believ6 tp~. applicant- i!! .•entjtled .to .be restored;
we also believe that when a brot~er ha.s b~n.-. punished for a , wrong,
: repents,-. and asks for. ~orgiveness, .it is _qur bound~n .. duty to: extend
ei. helping ha!ld alJd _raise -him back _._tCil· his. positiQn among men.
· :T he, "mailed: fist" has . no place in Masonry,.
.;

We therefore . offer the following resolution and recommend· its
··
adoption.
'
Re'solved, T'1mt ·Record ·No. '860 be; and he Is hereby restored
to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

H. M. OwENs,
FRED L. ARBOGAST,
GEo. H. BURCHARD.
A. B. WEBSTER,
Gi:o. E. CHURCH,

The:recol11merid'lition' was concufreci in ~y· Grarid'. Lodg~
and the brother was restored to all the rights and privileges
of Masonry.

GRAND LOD~E OF· CALfFoRNIA

To the M.'. W .' ,. Grand Lodge of Califo rnia:

' •·
Your · Committee, 'to whom was referred 'Tt~a.J Record No. ·10s,
of Honolulu Lodge, No. 409, F. & A. M., suspended by said Lodge
un the· 8th day of December, 1911; froni' which judgment of suspension the accused ha:s appeale'd, beg leavre to 'report 'as follows :
'rhe brother was ·charged with ulimasclnic conduct as follows:
Spedtkatiort · 1 : That on the evening of the 16th day of· September,, · 1911, he wa1s in an intoxicated State at a 'public 'i)lace
known as the Union Grill, .. rand later during the same evening
appeared' a.t a dance a t the roof gar·d en of the Young Hotel in a like
1tate of intoxication.
Specification 2: ; "That oil the evening of the · 16th d:ay of September, 1911, while in a state of intoxication, he did publicly assail
the good name of: the signer of this complaint, making untrue :statements and usihg· profane and vulgar language to the son of said
Mason, and when said son denied the charges made against · his
father and resented in speech the false .. accusations and vile language,
did assault, knock down, and break 'the jaw of · ~aid son."
The accused was · found guilty 'on the firsf specification on a
vote of four for guilty and three -voting not guilty,. and was also
found guilty on the second specification, five for and two against,
and guilty of 1,mmasonic conduct .o n a ~ote of five in favor and two
against, and was unanimously sentenced to be suspended.
.
· The evidence was conflicting and covers some ninety pages of
.type-written matter. Owing to .the many s~bstantial errors as t o procedure, we . will not discuss the assignment of errors claimed on the
ground of insufficient evidence..
·
The accused has filed a brief of some thirty-two pages, pointing out
certain defelcts in twelve specifications o f error. We . have considered them all and find no merit in Specifications 1, 3, 6, 7, 9,
10, and 11. We are' n:o t bound to · follow · the technical rules as are
followed in courts of law. If the accused · has had a fair opportunity
to present his · defense 1 and is given a fair rand irripattial trial, he
has no just cause for complaint.
·
The accused made a veiled · objection to a Commissioner as
follows : "I would like 'to ask a member of this Boa·rd whether he
ieels that he' is' disqualified as a member of this Board after using
the names of persons who kept calling me some names," etc. This
·was not a sufficient objectiOn. The member should have been
'objected to by name;· but after the Mla·ster had asked the general
question if any 'of them had any ·reason why they should not sit
'on this Commission to hear the testim-0ny and decide impartially
'in a · Masoriic manner, he should so state it now, no answer was
made by any of the Conimissioriers. 'The Master then ruled that
the objection was not good. The ·accused ·then said : · "I make no

128

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PBOCEEDING9 OF THE

objection to any member of tlte Commisgiob, extept I ·wobld like to
know if the member feels disqualified or not; if he doe~ not1 I am
perfectly satisfied with the Commlssi"n."
Under these conditions the Master committed nd error in his
ruling, which dispo-ses of asAignment of error No, 2.
Objection was made that the specifications were not suffklently
clear. We think that they could have beett made tnore spl!cific;
yet, as they were, the accusoed was fairly informed of the nature of
the charge, and the accused subsequently withdrew this objection by
saying : "I am perfectly willing to have it come out In the testimony
and take those as the specifications."
Errors 4 and 5: The Commission adjourned on October 12th
and 26th to the call of the Master. These adjournments were in
violation of our Masonic law. It has been held : "That the . Commission should not adjourn to the call of the Master, but to a time
fured."
23 G. L. Reports; 815.
Sec. 838, Anderson's Manual.
Sec, 204, Annotated Constitution.
There is no tnerit in as~lgfutteht of error No. 8. · '.l'he acctmd
had plertty ot time to prepate his defense. Tlte first tneetlng was
held on Octobet 12th, 1911 1 and the last oi1 the 26th day of October,
1911.
.
· The record shows tlte folibwing: "No futthet tesHmotiy being ·
offered, the matter was submitted to the Cdtrlrliissicirlers fot decision
upon the cotnpletlott of the tr:Hisctlt>t of evidence." 'this was eri'dl'.
Our Masonic law provides: · "After all the te~Htnotty shall have
beert tecelved, the Cdmriil~~iortets !hall proceed to deliberate Upon their
verdict and sentence."
•
Sec. 205, Anrtotated Constitution.
The law contemplated no delay or chance for fixing matters.
The Master then stated: "I sh>a-11 adjourn the meeting, on the
ground that the members are not prepared to come to a vote at
the present time, as the testimony has not. been thoroughly digested
by the members of the Commission." This was wrong. · No time
was fixed, and the Master had no right to dictate what the Commission should do.
Commissioner Fraziet then asked: "Not having been present
at the first meeting, may I ask a ruling whether I am qualified to vote
after I have •h ad an opportunity to see the transcript of the evidence."
The Master: "I rule that you a.11e qualified to vott at such meetings
as may be held." These may be new progressive ideas, but our
Masonic law provides: "Only those Commi!sioners acting who have
participated in the entire trial" are competent to render a decision.

129

Sec. 205, Annotated Constitution.
Hence the ruling of the Master was error. This disposes of
assignment of error No. 12.
•
The next meeting was held on October 30th, 1911, and was
adjoumed to the call of the Master. The record affirmatively shows
that the absent Commissioner participated in the judgment of suspension, and also acted as the Secreta.ry pro tern at the final meeting
of the Commissioners. This was error. "The Secretary shall have
no voice in the proceedings."
It of necessity follows that if we are to be classed as law abiding
citizens, we should first follow the rules and edicts of our own
Constitution, and if the law has not been obeyed we have not given
our br other a fair and impartial trial.
Therefore, your Committee offers the following resolution and
r ecommends its adoption :
Resolved, That the action of Honolulu Lodge, No. 409, F. &
A. M., in suspending Record No. 105 be, •a nd the same is hereby
reve rsed, and that a new frial be had therein.
H . M. Owl!Ns,

Gto. E. CHURCH,
Gt o. H. BURCHARD,
A. B. WtBSTl!R,
FRl!D L. ARBOGAST,

The report was adopted and the case remanded for a
new trial.
T he Southern California Past Masters' Association presented the draft of a bill to be presented to the Legislature
of California, designed to curb illicit or clandestone Masonry,
and it was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
(The Committee subsequently reported, recommending
that no action be had at this time, and the recommendation
was adopted.)
Brother Bradford Webster, for the Committee on Grievances, r-eported the following:
To the M. '. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee on Grievances to whom was referred a transcript
of Trial Record No. 117, of Pajaro Lodge No. 110, F . & A. M., upon
charges preferred against him by a member of the. same Lodge, and

e

PROCEEDINGS OF THEl

GRAND LODGEl OF CALIFORNIA

by order of the Grand Master tried by San Jose Lodge, No. 10, submit the following:
The charge against the accused,. in addition to unmasonic conduct,
is in brief that he, in his capacity as manager of various companies in
the Pajaro Valley, was guilty of financial irregularities and embezzlement.
The accused admitted some irregularities, but. denied any intent to
cheat, wrong or defraud, expressed sorrow for his irregularities, and
made complete financial restitution. The Commission, by some process
of reasoning too abstruse for us as a committee to follow, found him
not guilty upon specifications 1, 2 and 3, made no finding upon specification 4, but found him guilty of unmasonic conduct. On this finding
he was sentenced to suspension.
It has been, repeatedly held in this Grand Jurisdiction that unmasonic conduct is not a Masonic offense upon the finding of which
sentence can be imposed. It is a manifest absurdity to acquit the
accused of the acts alleged to constitute .unmasonic conduct and in the
same bre'ath to find him guilty of unmasonic conduct. If a man should
be accused of felony in that on a certain day and at a certain time
he committed the crime of burglary, it must follow, as a matter of
course; if they could not convict him on a specific act of burgfary
they could not convict him on the general charge of felony. It follows
then that the judgment should be reversed.

I " the M. ·.
Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances to whom was referred the trans'" rlpt of Trial Record No. 100, tried by Liberty Lodge No. 299, upon
1 harges preferred against him by a brother of the same Lodge, submit
the following:
The charge against the accused, in addition to unmasonic conduct, is in brief that he declared it to be his intention never to pay a
hlll for medical services rendered by the accuser, although he admitted
that his services were satisfactory artd that the bill was a just one.
Your Committee is of the opinion that Masonry should be slow to
I 1ke up or pass upon the business differences between members of the
fraternity. We do feel, however, that a wanton and deliberate disrciard and neglect of an admittedly just bill is a Masonic offense and
l(Oes far towards establishing a case of willfully and intentionally defrauding a brother Mason.
The evidence produced before the Committee in support of the
charge is unsatisfactory and inconclusiv,e, and it appears therefrom that
the accused brother was simply unfortunate and unable to pay the bill
of t:he accuser. It does appear, however, that he was able to spend
the sum of $75.00 to go through insolven~y for the express purpose
of freeing himself from the legal obligation of this bill. It certainly
would appear that that sum might better have been applied to his
Indebtedness to the accus.er.
Your Committee is of the op1mon, taking into account all of the
circumstances of the case, that the brother probably acted as fairly
ns he deemed himself able to do, and that the judgment of the Commission in finding him guilty of unmasonic conduct is unwarranted.

130

We thererore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of San Jose Lodge No. 10, upon the
case of Record No. 117, be and the same is hereby reversed.
A. B. WE:BSTJIR,
H. M. OwE:Ns,
G110. E. CHURCH,
FRED L. ARBOGAST,

G110. H. BURCHARD,
Committee.

The judgment of the Committee was concurred in by
Grand Lodge and the Br0>ther restored to all his rights and
privileges as a member of Pajaro Lodge No. 110.

131

w. ·.

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Liberty Lodge No. 299 upon the case
of Record No. 103 be and the same is hereby reversed.
A. B. WE:BSTE:R,
H. M. 0w:£Ns,
G:i;:o. E. CHURCH,
FR£D L. ARBOGAST,

Gto. H. BURCHARD.
Committee.

The r,esolution failed of adoption, and the action of the
Trial Commission was sustained.

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the M.'. w:. Grand'Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievan~s, to whom was referred a transcript
of Trial Record No. 121 of Sierra Madre Lodge, No. 408, upon charges
preferred against him by a brother of the same Lodge, submit the
following :
The charges themselves are extremely informal in character and
admittedly based upon a letter received by the accuser from a woman,
who charges the accused of being the father of her f.emale child born
out of wedlock, and that knowing her condition he had married another
w.oman.
No legal evidence was produced before the Commission to sustain
the charge. The woman in question was not called as a witness. Her
deposition was not taken. An abortive effort was made to obtain a
statement from her in something approaching a legal form, but even
that was not eventually done. A statement from the woman was received in evidence. The taking of this statement, however, was ex
parte and not attended with any legal formality. There was more or
less hearsay testimony tending to show that the accused admitted
having had relations with the woman in question, but also denying
that he was the father of her child.
The Commission seems to have been considerably incensed because
the accused apparently made no effort to appear before them, and is reported to have stated that he supposed "the Lodge would slip it to
him."
The accused brother appears to have been confined in the Los Angeles jail during the progress of the trial, although whether such confinement was upon this charge o r some other, does not appear. The
accused certainly does not seem a very promising member of the
fraternity, but in view of the extremely free and easy trial accorded
the accused, and realizing what a very dangerous precedent would be
established were Masons to be convicted of so grave an offense as this
charged, upon no evidence except that furnished by letters and hearsay
statements, we believe that the judgment should be reversed and the
matter remanded; and your Committee so advise.
Respectfully submitted,

A. B. W :t:BST:t:R,
H. M. OWENS,
GEO.

E. CHURCH,

FRl\D L. ARBOGAST,

Gto. H. BURCHARD,
Committee.

The report was adopted and the case remanded.

Brother George H. Burchard, for the Committee on
( .rievances, presented the following:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to 'whom was referred the petition of Record
No. 63 to be restored to all the rights and privileges of Freemasonry,
would respectfully report:
According to the record submitted in this case, said petitioner, up
tr. December 1, 1908, was a member of Oriental Lodge No. 144, of San
Francisco, at which date he was. expelled, having been sentenced by the
Superior Court of the City a'nd County of San Francisco, to one year
In the State prison for embezzlement, which time, with credits, was
reduced to ten months. It is also set forth in the record th1l.t he has
been restored to the rights and privileges of citizenship.
We find from the evidence submitted that for some three years last
past the petitioner has been living a moral and upright life, and that
during this time he has occupied var.ious positions of trust, thus
n!fording the best possible evidence of the sincerity of his regrets for
the pa.st, as well as indicating a settled purpose to live an honorable
nnd exemplary life. Furthermore, his petition has been acted upon
favorably by Oriental Lodge, after due and legal investigation. That
J.iodge now respectfully requests that the said petitfoner be restored
to all rights and privileges of Masonry.
The case presented by this record appears to be one of those
calling for the exercise of true Masonic charity. It should ever be
the object of our great Fraternity to extend the helping hand in all
worthy cases, and we fully believe that the encouragement which oomes
from association with our Masonic Brethren is one of the most pote~
means for inculcating the principles of good citizenship and the prac.tice
of morality.
In view of the showing made in his behalf, in this case, your Committee would therefore recommend that the petition of Record No. 63
be granted, and that he be restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
G!o. H. BURcHAJID,
H . M. Owi:Ns,
PUD L. AltBOGAST,

A. B. WllM>rn,

Gw. E. CBvRcH,
Committee.

The recommendation was adopted, and the Brother restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

135

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

134

PROCEEDINGS OF TH.Ill

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record No. 118, of
North East Lodge No. 266, having had the same under consideration, respectfully report as follows:
The charges preferred against this brother are set forth in the
following specifications: First-Habitual drunkenness; Second-Leading a dissolute life; Third-Exp<ising grip and signs in public places
while in an intoxicated condition. A verdict of guilty was rendered
on sp~ifications 1 and 2; and not guilty on specification 3, and
the penalty imposed was expulsion.
The record in this case comes before the Grand Lodge, both upon
the transcript of the proceedings had at the trial of the accused, and
also upon an appeal which is urged by the accused from the judgment
rendered. The appeal is urged on -three grounds, towit : Insufficiency
of evidence, errors of law, and failure to allow accused time to secure
witnesses. The appeal is supported by much evidence, otherwise competent were it not for the fact that the appeal itself was not made for
seven weeks subsequent to the time legally allowed for perfecting same,
(See Section 20, Constitution of Grand Lodge) This delay precludes
its consideration by your Committee.
However, we have examined with care the original transcript, and
find that in several respects the most elementary principles of evidence
have been · disregarded. Not only was hearsay evidence freely admitted at the trial, but witness after witness was permitted to draw his
own personal conclusions, instead of testifying as to facts within his
actual knowledge. We believe it to be an elementary principle of
Masonic law -that when a brother is charged with so seri~us an
offense as "habitual drunkenness" he has a right to demand that his
accusers produce facts and dates, and not ba·r e inferences or conclusions to support their charges. The charge of "habitual drunkenness"
involves such a continuous course of, or life of dissipation as to
naturally and necessarily inca·p acitate the accused from the transaction
of his ordinary business. The seriousness of the offense, viewed from
the Masonic standpoint, fully justifies the rule requiring the production
of sufficient legal and competent evidence substantiating such a charge,
before a Mason can be justly deprived of his character and standing
as a man and citizen.
In the opinion of your committee the transcript of testimony in this
case' 'fails to show sufficient legal evidence to sustain the verdict of
guilty_and judgment: .o f e:icpulsion, and we therefore .offer the following
resolution and. r~commen~ . its adoption:

Resolved That the action of Surprise Valley L odge No. 235 in the
matter of ch~rges preferred against Reco~d No. 266 be reversed, and
the case is hereby remanded for a new trial.
G!io. H. BURCHARD,
H. M. OwliNS,
A. B. W!iBS'l'ER,
FR!iD L. ARBOGAS'l',
GEO. E. CHURCH,

Committee.

The Grand Lodge refused to ·concur in the views o~ the
Committee, and the action of the Trial Lodge was sustained.
Brother Burchard, for the same Committee, also presented the matter of Trial Record No. 114, of Golden Gate
Lodge No. 30, wherein the defendant was accused of .defrauding the Lodge by securing funds for the ostensible
purpose of relieving the widow of a late membe~, and that
in fact the funds so voted by the Lodge and so given to the
defendant were not used for the relief of the widow. The
Trial Commission1found the defendant guilty and sentenc.ed
him to expulsion April 2, 1912. 1:he defen?ant filed w~th
the Committee on Grievances a wntteni motion to se: aside
the judgment on the grounds of insuffitiency ·Of the .evidence,
and that he had not been served with summons. The Committee found many errors in the record, and. offered the
following resolution, recomJ!lending its adoption:
"Resolved T hat the action of Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30, in the
matter of Trlal ' Record No. 114 be .reversed, and that the case be
for a new trial on specifications one to four, and that as to
remand ed
. d,,
specifi.cation five, the charges be dism1sse .

The Grand Lodge refused to concur, and ordered the
judgmen~ of the Trial Commision to stand.
Brother Charles M. Wollenberg, ~aster of .s:arr King
introduced a resoluhoni providing for a
L 0 d ge N 0 . 344'
.
•
-L
d
Building Fund for the Masonic Homes, and it was re-1erre
to the Committee on Jurisprudence . .

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother Arbogast, for the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following report:

prior to the divorce. The testimony is to the effect that defendant
came to the house late at night in company with two or three mutual
friends and all together i:ndeavored tO induce accuser's wife to go
on a joy ride with them to the ocean beach. That the accuser was not
at home. That the rest of the party 1C'ft the house and that defendant
afterwards induced the wife to go with him to the ocean beach in
search of the party with whom he had come to the house.
The testimony of the wife further states that upon th¢ir return
from the ocean beach they went to a private dining room in a restaurant down town, and that they did not return to the house of
accuser until . 3 :40 in the morning. That upon her return the wife
informed •her husband where she had been and with whom she had
been, except that she did not inform him as to the visit to the
restaurant.
The accused, in his testimony, emphatically denies and refutes
every statement of the witnesses for the accuser relative to his inducing
accuser's wife to go with him personally to the ocean beach; but, in
his testimony and the testimony of the party who drove the automobile,
endeavors to establish the fact that she accompanied the original party
to the ocean beach, and that while there, on account of some differences
between the wife and ia: Mr. H, the party split up and that accused
remained at the ocean beach in order to see accuser's wife home.
That he procured an automobile and took her to her residence.
The record shows the same contradictory testimony regarding the
second specification. The testigiony of the two ladies going to th:
point thlat the accused called at the house of accuser's wife and
endeavored to induce her to go out to dinner with him, knowing
full well that her husband was out of town; defendant in his testimony positively denying all knowledge of any such visit.
Relative to specification fourth, the testimony of two or three
witnesses is positive regarding the use by defendant of vulgar, profane,
slanderous and abusive language toward the accuser, while on the
other hand, testimony of the witnesses for the accused gives defendant
111 good name and states that they have never heard him make use
of vulgar, profane, or abusive languag~. The accused, however, in
his testimony admits that he may have used some profane language
on the date of his conversation with some brothers of San Francisco
Lodge, who informed him that charge» might be preferred againat
him.
From a strict Investigation of the testimony, perhaps a Commission
would be justified in finding the accused guilty of a Masonic offense
as set forth in the fourth specification.
The peculair part of this whole proceeding is, first, that the main
issue, that ia. as to whether defendant is guilty of unmasonic conduct

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee, to whom was referred Trial Record No. 113,
a member of S'a n Francisco Lodge, No. 360, have had the same under
advisement and consideration, and beg leave to report as follows :
The broth.er was charged with unmasonic conduct by a member
of ~an ~ranc1sco Lodge, No. 360, in a complaint consisting of four
spec1ficat10ns. By order of the Grand Master the trial was directed
to be had in Mission Lodge, No. 169.
A synopsis of the specifications as set forth in the charges accuse
·
the defendant:
First-With having taken the wi£e of the accuser out in an
automobile late at night during the month of March, 1909;
that he took her t?. several of the resorts on the ocean beach, purchased large quantities of :wine and liquor and returned her to her
home at 3 :4-0 a. m.; that the accuser was at home when the accused
and the accuser's wife returned.
Second-That two weeks thereafter the accused, about 6 :30 in the
evening, again called at the home of the accuser, knowing that the
latter was out of town on a fishing trip, and tried to induce the
accuser's wife to go to dinner with him, which she refused.
That in August, 1909, the said wife secured a divorce from her
husband upon the ground of extreme cruelty. That accused was a
married man.

. ''

Third-That the accuser did not learn the full particulars of said
defendant's actions toward the wife until the latter part of November,
1911. That accused charged the accuser with slandering him and
challenged him to prove his . accusations.
Fourth-That at diffierent times during the year 1911 accused
applied toward accuser vulgar, profane, slanderous and ab~sive language.
'The record shows that the Commission found the defendant guilty
of thie first, second and fourth specifications, and not guilty on the
,
third specification, by V'Ote of four to three.
. The record in the case is very voluminous, consisting of some
three hundred typewritten pages; iand after a perusal of the same
it iii evident that more t¢stimony could have been adduced regarding
-he iKX:Ulfatlom,
~elative to the first and second specifu:ations, the evidence adduced
is quite oontradictory, the main witnesses for the accuser bein$' the
divorced wife and a young woman rC5'iding with her and lioer husband

.•

137

139

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

as charged in specifications onie and two, is that the charges, if pre·
ferred in good faith, were not presented to the Lodge two years
before they were presented. Second, at the time the accuser desired
to present the charge he gave certain brothers of his Lodge authority
to advise defendant that if he would resign from the office which he
then held in · the 19dge, and would not be a candidate for advance·
ment, that the whole matter would be dropped.
The whole record is replete with contradictions, and. it seems to
the committee that it is impossible for them to reconcile the disagreements and contradictions thereof sufficiently to enable us to stat;e
that we believe the Commissi1on acted wisely in finding the accused
guilty of a Masonic offense.
The record, to us, discloses the fact that at the time of the
alleged first visit on the night of March 31st, the accuser and his
wife were not Jiving together as man and wife. That there was
nothing criminally wrong relative to the visit of defendant on that
date, and that the testimony taken as a whole would not be sufficient
to justify a finding of guilty for the first specification.
As to the second specification, we are of the opinion that the
testimony of the accused is entitled to some weight, he having in a
measure established the fact that he was not at the accuser's house
on the date stated, which was sworn to positively by the witnesses
for the accuser. That portion of the specification pertaining to the
receiving of a divorce by the wife and the complaint in the divorce,
together with the remainder of the _records introduced in evidence,
it seems, would justify the Commision in refusing to give that credit
to the testimony of the main witness for the accuser which is necessary
to deprive a brother Mason of his Masonic riglMs.
Inasmuch as the main offense cha rged was committed in the
spring of 1909, and .that charges were not preferred until November,
1911, and that the same were preferred only after an attempt to
oompound the offense, and that the testimony adduced is so contradictory that it is impo·ssible to reconcile it and arrive at a just conclusion, we are compelled to hold that the testimo1;1y was insufficient
tci justify the verdict, and w.e therefore bffer the fol.lowing resolution
and recommend its adoption :
·
·
· R esolved, That the action o f San Francisco Lodge, No. 360, in
·suspending Record No. · .f 13 be, and the sam·e is hereby reversed.
Respectfully submitted,

The resolution of the Committee did not prevail, and on
motion the action of the Trial Commission was sustained.

138

.

'

FRE:D 1,. ARBOGAS'l',

Gi;:o. H. BURCHARD,
:

A. ·B. WEBSTER, .

·Gi;:o. E. CHURCH,
H. M. ,Owi;:Ns,
Committee.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to whom was referred Trial Record No. 123,
of Hermann Lodge, No. 127, have had the same under advisement
and be·g lea;ve to report as follows :
Charges were filed against the brother, charging him with unmasonic
conduct in five specifications, as follows:
First- That a.b out two years ago the accused, while appointed by
the Master of his Lodge to "post" a brother, nearly always appeared
at the brother's house in a semi-intoxicated condition, much to the ·
disgust of the brother and his family.
Second-'f'hat said accused, while thus engaged in "posting" tht
brother, borrowed, under his Masonic pledge of honor to repay at an
early date, $16.00, which amount he has, up to the present, failed to
return.
Third- That about two years ago a brother, of Hermann Lodge,
No. 127, in Masonic spirit, to help accused along in his daily vocation,
gave him a gold locket to repair. The brother has not been able to
get said gold locket back up to the present time.
Fourth_;That said accused was, on the 26th day of July, 1911,
arrested in this city on a charge of rape, supposed to have been
committed by him and his companion on a married woman, while in a
semi-intoxicated condition.
F ifth- "That I, myself, have seen said accused within the last two
years at various times and at various public places, sometimes in a semiintoxicated and sometimes in an intoxicated state." For all of which,
etc. Signed by accuser.
The accused was tried before a Commission of seven and found
guilty of unmasonic conduct and expelled. He was found gui~ty of
specifications one, three and five upon the uncorr.oborated testimony
in each case of one witness. The a ccused denying the material testimony
relativ·e to the first and third specificati-ons, and admitting that he
had been intoxicated on different occasions, but that he had not taken
intoxicating liquors to excess since last January (ten months previous
to the trial), and that he has not been intoxicated since that. time.
It is obvious to your committee that the circumstance which precipitated the charges against defendant was the filing in the criminal
courts of a complaint charging him with rape.
.
The only evidence to sustain specification · ,f ourth. wa.s _the · introduction of a certified copy of the complaint from .t.he ,crmunal. c.ou,rt,
the accused testifying that he was not guilty of "the offense charged,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

140

141

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and that the action was dismissed on the testimony of the prosecutrix
herse.Jf.
No evidence was 'a.dduced to show that there was any truth in
the charge. On the contrary, it appears that there was no evidence
presented in court sufficient to justify even the filing of the complaint.
The presentation of a complaint or an indic;tment against a person
raises no presumption of his guilt. On the contrary, the law throws
around every person charged with crime the presumption of innotence,
which follows him throughout the ·trial, even to the finding of a
verdict by the jury.
A Masonic trial is strictly a criminal proceeding, and if the law
clothes a defendant in a criminal case with the presumption of innocence, should not the brother of a Lodge be more watchful and guard
well the rights which are so sacred to a Master Mason?
In the eyes of your committee, the only conclusive evidence
adduced which justifies the finding of guilty of a Masonic offense was
given respecting specification fifth, where a brother testified that he
had seen the accused int9xica:ted several times; and where the accused
admits that he has been intoxicated on different occasions, but that
he has not taken intoxicating liquors to excess since January, 1911,
and has not been intoxicated since that time.
The record shows that seven Commissioners tried the case, but
that only six subscribed to the same as required by Masonic law.
It appears to your committee that upon the filing of the criminal
complaint ag.a:inst the accused, which in itself is no Masonic offense,
the brdhren of the Lodge became at once aroused and endeavored
by the fine-toothed comb process, to find sufficient accusations against
him to expel him from the Lodge. We know nothing except what
the record discloses, and to us it appears that perhaps the Commission.
might have exercised more discretion and Masonic charity and endeavored to raise the brother by their counsel instead of excluding
him from the rights and privileges of a brother Mason..
We offer the following resolution end recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That ·the action of Hermann Lodge, No. 127, in the
matter of Trial Record No. 123, be, and the same is hereby reversed.
Fiu:n L. Aal!OOAST,
H. M. Ow1Ns,
GEO. E. CUURCH,

A. B. WEBSTEB,
G£o,. H. BTJRCHABD,
Committee.

The resolution failed of adoption, and on motion the
action of Hermann Lodge was sustained.

Brother J. Claude Perry presented a resolution proposmg to amend the Constitution so as t.o provide f?r a Grand
Lodge Library. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Brother Geiorge E. Church, for the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:
To the Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, who 'have had under consideration
the case of Record No. 115, a member of Crockett Lodge, No. 139,
beg leave to report as follows :
It appears that accused was charged by a member o,f Naval Lodge,
.
.
No. 87, with unmasonic conduct, specifying :
First-Tha·t on · the 1st day of May, 1911, accused beat his wife
with clenched fists, knocking her to the floor and then brutally kicking

her.

Second-That on all occasions, and before anyone who might ~e
present, his conduct toward his wife was ungentlemanly and qts
language to her always profane.
, .
Third-That on two separate occasions, the first bemg m Febmar!,
1911 at his place of business, the second being in April, 1911, at hts
own' home, he made attempted assault on his wife's niece, a child
fourteen years of age.
.
Issu•e was joined on the general charge and on all the specifications,
and, after due proceedings had, the Commission appointed to try the
brother found a.s follows :
On specification one, guilty, 3; not guilty, 6.
On specification two, guilty, 1 ; not guilty, 8.
On ·specification three, guilty, 5; not guilty, 4.
And on the general charge of unmasonic conduct, guilty, 5; not
guilty, 4.
By vote of 5 to 4, the Commissioners refused to expel the
accused, but by a vote of 5 to 4, they suspended him from all the
rights and privileges of a Mason.
Both the accuser and the accused not being satisfied with the
action of the Commissioners, have appealed therefrom to thi.s ?rand
Body. The accuser complains particularly bec?use t~e C~mm1ss10ners
failed to find the accused guilty of the charges m spec1ficat1ons one and
two, and because of what he d'eems the insufficiency of the pen~lty.
It must be admitted that the evidence seems to us a~ply ~uffic1ent
to sustain the finding of guilty on at least the first spec1ficatto~-that
of serious maltreatment of his w.ife. In addition ;o her own evt~ence,
sufficient corroborating testimony is given by her sister-who was m the

143

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGl!J OF CALIFORNIA

house at the time-and by the physician who attended her injuries .
.The wife t•estified that the accused struck her repeatedly in the face,
knocked her down, kicked her, and at the same time applied to her
the vilest and most insulting epithets. · The doctor testified that her
right cheek was very much swollen; that her left arm was discolored
and swollen; that he found a large contusion and a badly swollen
place. Then, too, the denials of the accused are practical admissions
of his offense. He testified that he might have grabbed her with
some degree of violence, but denies that . he knocked her down or
struck her at all; claiming that her injuries were the result of her
fall. Apparently, the only provocation for all his violence and brutality
to· his wife-if provocation it can be ca,lled-was her failure to pay
a butcher's bill, amounting to no more than $8.15, as soon as he thought
it should be paid. He is a man of quick temper, apparently of violent
passion, and it is no more than charity to suppose that in his frenzy
he does not know really what he is doing.
We admit that on the face of the record, it seems to us surprising that the findings were not guilty by a unanimous vote on the
first specification. There is in the record sufficient evidence to justify
the finding of guilty on the third specification, and it may well be
thait the penalty ought to have been expulsion, rather than suspension.
In deference, however, to the judgment of the Commissioners who heard
all the evidence and saw the witnesses, and believing it both wiser and
better to err on the side of leniency rather than severity, your
committee has thought best to advise, and does advise and recommend
that the action of Crockett Lodge in this matter be affirmed at this
Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

The Committee on By-Laws, by Henry Ascroft, Chairman ther.eof, reported as f.ollows.

142

To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California.:
Your Committee on By-laws respectfully recommend that the
approval of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master to the amendments of. Bylaws submitted by the following named Lodges be concurred m: .
Reducing dues: Cala,veras, No. 78; Humboldt, No. 79; Claiborne, No. 185 ; and North Butte, No. 230.
AboliS'hing affiliation fee: Manila, No. 342; Highland Park, No.
382 · and Burlingame, No. 400.
'Increasing dues: La Grange, No. 99; Pajaro, No. 110; B~ooklyn.
No. 225; Palo Alto, No. 346; Willits, No. 365; and Imperial, No.
390
· Increasing fees : Santa Rosa, No. 57 ; Plumas, No. 60; King
David's, No. 209; Jan es ville, No. 232; Santa Ana, No.. 241; Tuscan,
No. 261; Ashlar, No. 306; Amity, No. 370; and Coaling~ No. 387.
Changing time of meeting: Temple, No. 14; San Joaqum, No. 19;
Bear Mountain, No. 76; Claiborne, No. 185; Stanislaus, No. 206; Santa
Ana, No. 241; Bodie, No. 252 ;. Welcome, No. 255; Galt, No. 2~7 '.
Mt. Shasta, No. 281; San Miguel, No. 285; Redondo, No. 3-8,
Sequoia, No. 349; Hollywood, No. 355 ; Highland Park, No. 382;
Coalinga, No. 387 ; Imperial, No. 390; Turlock, No. 395; and Eagle

Rock, No. 422.
I' d
The following named' Lodges under Dispensation have comp 1e
with the Uniform Code of By-laws as adopted by this Grand Lodge,
their books are neat and correct in every particular, and your committee take pleasure in recommending the~ to the favo;able consideration of this Grand Lodge: Midway, Pittsburg, Holtville, Alpha,
McCloud, Exeter, York, San ·Dimas, and Roseville.
Approval is withheld of the By-laws of Chino Valley, U. D.,
until same are correctly writtefn in their Book of By-laws and
.
approved by the M.'. w:. Grand Ma~ter.
There is no ieyidence before this committee that Hammonton
Lodge, U. D., has adopted any By-laws, consequently no report can
be made in reference thereto.
Respectfully submitted,
H!!NRY AscaoF'l',

G!!O. E. CHURCH,

H. M. OWENS,
A. B. WERSTER,
Gto. H. BURCHARD,
FRED

L. ARROGAST,
Committee.

The report was adopted, and the action of Crockett
Lodge affirmed.

GtDRG't F. RODDJ!N,
GEORG't G. GII.I.J!SPIE,
}AMJ!S

c. POTTI.J!,

Lours N. BUTTNER,
Committee.

The report was .adopted.

'.

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Bro~her Hugh J. Owen introduced the following:
Resolved, That the M.". w:. Grand Master appoint a committee

of three to prepare a bill, have th.e same presented at the next
legislature of this State, and use every endeavor to have it enacted
as law, for the purpose of suppressing and preventing clandestine
Masonry in this State.

This was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence,
and subsequently M.". W.". William S. Wells, for that committee, reported as follows :
We a.re of the opinion that such action by this Grand Lodge as
contemplated by the resolution is inadvisable at this time, and recommend that it be not adopted.

The view of the Committee was concurred m, and the
resolution was lost.
,Brother J. Claude Perry, Chairman of the Committee on
Charters, presented the following report:
To the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of Californi<J:

Your committee, to whom was riderred that portion o·f the
M." · w: · Grand Master's address relative to the issuance of dispensations for the formation of new Lodges, beg leave to report as
follows:
Dispensations have been issued to the following lodges:
October 12th, 1911, York Lodge, at Wa,tts, Los Angeles County;
October 12, 1911, Exeter Lodge, at Exeter, Tulare County; October
12th, 1911, Holtville Lodge, <at Holtville, Imperial County; October
17th, 1911, Midway Lodge, at Taft, Kern Couuty; October 30th,
1911, Chino Valley ·Lodge, at Chino Valley, San Bernardino County;
November 28th, 1911, San Dimas Lodge, at San Dimas, Los Angeles
county; February 17th, 1912, Pittsburg Lodge, at Pittsburg, Contra
Costa County; April 22nd, · 1912, McCloud Lodge, at McCloud, Siskiyou County; April 24th, 1912, Alpha Lodge, at Richmond, Contra
Cosro. County; J.une 10th, 1912, Hammonton Lodge, "at Hammonton,
Yuba County ; July 5th, 1912, Roseville Lodge, at Roseville, Placer
County.
We have carefully examined the record books and documents
submitted, and with few exceptions find them neatly and properly
executed, and your committee rec~mmends that charters be granted
to the following named Lodges as prayed for:

145

York Lodge, at W·atts, ·Los Ange1es County; Exeter Lodge, at
tr.xeter, Tulare County; Holtville Lodge, at Holtville, Imperial County;
Midway Lodge, at Taft, Kern County; Chino Valley Lodge, at Chino
~Ian Bernardino County, San Dimas Lodge, at San Dimas,
I ·JI Angeles County; Pittsburg Lodge, at Pittsburg, Contra Costa
c:ounty; McCloud Lodgie, at McCloud, Siskiyou County; Alpha Lodge,
.11 Richmond, Contra Costa County; Roseville Lodge, at Roseville,
111a.cer Cunty.
In the matter of Hammonton Lodge, U. D., your committee finds
that the minutes are irregular, insufficient and incomplete in many
• 1s.ential respects. 'The records do not show that any action was
tuken by the Lodge in regard to a petition to the Grand Lodge for
.• charter, and the Master states to the committee that no such
action was taken, and the Lodge has not surrendered to the Grand
Secretary its dispensation. Your conimittee recommends that Hammonton Lodge be continued under dispensation until the next annual
communication of the Grand Lodge and that ~he Secretary be instructed
to correct and re-write the records under the direction of the In"pector of the District.
Your committee finds that many of the Lodges under dispensation have failed to incorporate in their minutes the itemized expenditures each month, and we would therefore recommend that, in
the· future, ~he Grand Secretary communicate with all Lodges under
dispensation, and request said Lodges to transmit an itemized state·
ment of receipts and expenditures when surrendering dispensation to
the Grand Lodge. This will materially facilitate the work of the
Committee on Charters.
All which is fraternally submitted,

J. CLAUD!! P!!RRY,
Ron G. Guvl!TT,
]AS. E. SANDl!RSON,
Ll!MUl!L L. Tasr,
Hl!NRY Ll!VY,

Committee.

The report was adopted, and charters ordered to be
issued as reoommended.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Thursday morning.
10

146

PROCEEDING~

011' 'l'HE

3Ju ~rauh 1Jjn!lgt.
T.hursday Morning, October 10, A. L. 5912.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session· were read and approved.
Brother William Kettner, Grand Marshal, was ·excus,ed
from further attendance at this Communication, and
Brother John B. Osborn was appointed to fill the vacancy.
Brother Rose of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, was also
excused.
M.': W.'. George M. Perine introduced the following

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

147

The record- appears: to be re$ular. The brother was convicted
upon the uncorroborated testimony of the party with whom he !1>
alleged to be living in open 'adultery-one witness-unsupported.
Under our Masonic law, as well as under our criminal law, this
would be sufficient, provided the testimony or evidence was free from
bia,s or prejudice; but in this case the testimony of the witness shows
upon the surface an underlying animus and lealousy and vindictiveness.
The accused, however, has taken no appeal, and has taken no
steps to protect his rights. Had he .done so this committee would
consider it its bounden duty to grant the brother a new trial. As
the matter stands, we recommend that · the action of Burbank Lodge,
No. 406, suspending Record No. 110, be, and the same is hereby
affirmed.
FRED L. ARBOGAST,
A. B. WEBSTER,
GEO. H. BURCHARD,
GEO. E. CHURCH,
H. M. OwENS,
Committee.

The Grand Lodge.concurred and the report was adopted.

resolution:
"Resolved, That the sum of $15,0<x:l be, and the same is hereb~
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of
subscribing for and taking stock in the Masonic Temple Association
of California, payablie when the Temple is completed."

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
Brother Fred L. Arbogast, for the Committee on Grievances, pr,esented the folloiwng report:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, .to whom was referred Trial Record No. 110,
suspended from Burbank Lodge, No. 406, having had the same under
consideration, respectfully report as follows :
Defendant was accused of unmasonic conduct as follows :
First-That the accused has lived in adultery with a woman in
the town of Burbank for the past six years or more, and at the same
time he was a married man, having a wife living and not divorced.
He was regularly tried before a Commission consisting of sev,en
members, convicted, and suspended.

Brother Henry M. Owens, for the same Committee, presented the following:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to whom was referred the petition for restoration of Record No. 81, expelled by Sacramento Lodge, No. 40,
August 5, 1910, beg to report that the brother was charged with
striking a brother Mason and attempting to destroy the business of
a brother ; also with obtaining "$250.00 under misrepresentation.
He was found guilty on both specifications and expelled.
'Dhe application is in proper form, but there is no evidence before
your committee going to show that the petitioner has led a good
moral life, or that he is deserving of being restored to all the rights
and privileges of Masonry. We therefore recommend .that the petition
be denied.
H. M. OWENS,
FRED L. ARBOGAST,
A. B. WEBSTER,
GEo. H. BURCHARD,
GEO. :tt. CHURCH,
Committee.

The report was adopted, and the petition for r,estoration
was denied.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Secretary reported that pursuant to the
action of Grand Lodge yesterday, charters had been prepared and the new Lodges numbered as follows,:

l.•>dg-e with such recommendations as it deems proper. He, therefore,
•>mltted the same from his address.
We have carefully considered the decisions so submitted. At the
•>utset we desire to say that the Grand Master has evidently given a
l(rea.t deal of time and serious consideration to the questions presented,
and that his decisions were generally clear and concise expositions of
1mr law. It is only as to one or two matters rha~ we have any doubt
111 to the correctness of his rulings.

148

York Lodge No. 423.
Exeter Lodge No. 424.
Holtville Lodge No. 425.
Midway Lodge No. 426.
Chino Valley Lodge No. 427.

San Dimas Lodge No. 428.
Pittsburg Lodge No. 429.
MCCioud Lodge No. 430.
Alpha Lodge No. 431.
Roseville Lodge No. 432.

M.". W.". William S. Wells, for the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presente<l the following report:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
We· have had under consideration the special dispensations issued
by the Grand Master during the year, and also his approval of resolutions relativ,e to life memberships and changing place of meeting, and
we find that all his acts in this regard have been in compliance with
the requirements of the Constitution.
We recommend that the action of the Grand Master therein be
approved.
F. M. ANG!i~LOTTI,
WM.
WELLS,
CHAS. L. p ATTON,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
G!io. M. P!iRINE,

s.

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.
M.". W.". Frank M. Angellotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as to the decisions of the
Grand Master, as follows:
To the M.". W.". Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence submits the following report in
the matter of the decisions by the Grand Master on questions of
Masonic Law presented to him for determination.
As stated by the Grand Master in his address, he has followed the
commendable practice inaugurated by Grand Master Lawler in the
year 1909, of submitting such decisions as he deems it necessary to
report, to this Committee some weeks prior to the commencement of the
annual communication, to be reported by the Committee to the Grand

149

The following are the decisions submitted:
(References ar,e to Constitution adopted in 1911.)
Decision I: A request was made for a dispensation authorizing a
Masonic funeral, when he dies, for an old Mason 82 years old who
has dimitted many years ago. He had never made application for
affiliation, although ever since residing in this State.
This request was refused because the Grand Master is not authorized to issue a dispensation for such purpose. Also such a dimitted
Mason cannot be "the recipient of any of the rights, privileges, or
charities of the Order."
Secs 43, 165 Constitution.
The suggestion was made that the Lodge could admit the old
Mason to membership, if desired, and he would then be entitled to a
Ma.sonic burial. I am informed that this was done.
Committee: 'fihe ruling of the Grand Master refusing a dispensation was correct for the reasons stated by him. Section 165 of the
Constitution clearly defines the position of such a brother, and prescribes the only method by which he may be restored to Masonic rights.
We recommend that the decision be approved.
Decision 2: Can a Lodge refund a member who has paid dues
in advance, and rllen becomes a Life Member, any part of the dues
covering the time after such Life Membership begins?
Answer : It can. The part of such dues a Lodge may refund
should be oomputed from the end of the quarterly period during which
the Life Membership begins. Dues are payable quarterly in advance.
(Sec. 1, Art. IX, By-Laws.) Since dues are payable quarterly, it is
logical to compute from a quarterly period in refunding to a Life Memb.er dues paid in advance.
Committ11: This decision is correct. We recommend that it be
approved.
Decision 3: Is it possible for a member of a foreign Lodge, who
ia in arrears for dues and cannot afford to pay them, to petition a
California Lodge for the degrees?
Answer : It is not possible.

151

PROCEEnINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee: . This decision is correct. The same point was decided
by the Grand Lodge heretofore. (See Vol. 22,, Proc., pp. 18, 263.)
We have no right to accept as a. member one who belongs to a Lodge
in another Jurisdiction. We recommend that it be approved.
Decision 4: It is legal ·to install officers before St. John's day.
Officers are to be installed as soon as practicable after election. A
Master installed after Trial Commissioners elected, who is not otherwise disqualified, cari legally preside at the trial.
Committee: This decision is correct on both propositions. We
recommend that it be ·approved.
Decisions: A Mason holds membership in a Lodge in New York.
He belongs to a California Chapter, Commandery and Shrine. He is
charged with breaking up a brother Mason's home by violating the
chastity of his wife. It is stated that the accused brother is at present
in San Francisco.
Question: Can he be tried by a California Lodge, and if so, where?
Answer : "The penal jurisdiction of a Lodge includes all its own
members, wherever residing, and all Masons from any Lodge, even
those suspended for non-payment of dues, or otherwise, residing nearer
to its place of meeting than to that of any other Lodge," etc.

T·he following questions were asked: 1. Was the withdrawal card
riven by the Master regular?
2. Was the member still under the
Jurisdiction of the Lodge? 3. If the member was elected a member of
another Lodge, could the Lodge :in which the charges were made go on
nnd try him? 4. Could the trial go on with six Commissioners, the
]unior Warden not being eligible?
1. I understand that by "regular" in above question is meant
"legal," and answer that the issue of the withdrawal certificate ?Y
the Master was legal. The d·enial of it by vote of the Lodge was void.
It did not take away from the Master the power to issue it.
"A member of a Lodge, in good standing and whose dues are paid,
may withdraw therefrom at any time by giving notice of his intention
10 to do at a stated meeting,'' etc.
Sec. 159, Constitution.

150

Secs, 188, 227, Constitution.
'T he accused brother may be tried by a Lodge having territorial
jurisdiction over ~he place where he resides, although .he may at the
time be temporarily absent.
The offense to which you refer is one of the worst that a Mason
can be guilty of. 'T he home is the unit of society. The purity of
women .is the hope 9f the world. A Mason who crosses the threshold of
a brother's home and defiles it loses all right to sympathy or consideration and should be expelled from our great fraternity.
Committee: This decision is correct. We recommend that it be
approved.
Decision 6: A member of a Lodge in July, .1911, asked in writing
for a <limit. A <limit was granted by vote of the Lodge. Afterwards at
the same meeting by vote of the Lodge the granting of the <limit
was reconsidered and the <limit was denied. The. Junior W arden
was then ordered by the vote of the Lodge to prefer charges against
the member for unmasonic conduct. He from ·time to time demanded·
from the Master a withdraw.al card, or dirnit. The· Master, notwithstanding the vote of the Lodge denying such dimit, issued it, dated·
July, 1911. The Junior Warden then preferred· charges against the
l?rother as dire.cted .by vote of the Lodge. Commissioners were elected
to try him, the Junior . W arden being .elected as one of them, there ·
being six without counting him.
..

W hen a member of a Lodge has paid his dues, and at a stated meeting announces his intention to withdraw, his membership ceases.
Note b. Sec. 159, Constitution.
2. As the charges were not preferred until after the membership
of the brother in that Lodge ce·ased, it had jurisdiction to receive
charges against him only if he was a resident within the territorial
jurisdiction of that Lodge when the charges were made.
Secs. 188 and 227, Constitution.
3. If the Lodge where the charges were made had jurisdiction
of the brother at the time they were made it could go on and try him
notwithstanding he might join another Lodge. A change of residence
aftei charges made would not divest the Lodge of jurisdiction to try
him under such cha.rges.
4. The election of the Ju.n ior Warden as a Commissioner would
not make such election invalid, and a majority of the Commissioners
could proceed with the trial of the charges. Vacancies on the Commission because of objections sustained to Commissioners, or other
reason, may be filled by the remaining Commissioners, subj~t to the
approval of the Master.
Sec. 200, Constitution.

Committee: This decision is correct, for the reasons and in view
of the authorities cited. We recommend that it be approved.
Decision .7: Is smoking in the Lodge during the con£erring of degrees proper?
.
Answer: No, it is not proper. The ceremony of conferring the·
degrees of Masonry is a sacred and solemn one. To smoke at sue~
a time in the Lodge is a breach of propriety and should not be petmitted.

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee: This decision is correct. We recommend that it be
approved.
Decision 8: A profane seeking admission to a Lodge stated in his
petition "that he had never petitioned any Masonic Lodge, but paid the
fees and secured the degrees in a clandestine Lodge in San Francisco,
and afterwards found out they were irregular and had nothing more to
do with them."
Question: "Now can we receive this petition and have it take the
usual course?"
Answer: Yies.
Committee:. This decision is obviously correct. We recommend
that it be 'a pproved.
Decision 9: "The affiliation fee of a Lodge is $10. School teachers
are with us this year and may be somewhere else next year, and they
do not feel able to pay the $10 for the short time and then have to pay
it over ·again so soon. On receipt of the fee 6ould the Lodge issue a
receipt for dues for, say six months, using a part of the fee for that
purpose?"
Answer: No. You cannot violate the provision of your By-Laws
fixjng the fee. You cannot do indirectly what is forbidden you to do
directly. A Lodge cannot "donate initiation fees to the candidate under ·
any pretext whatever." The rule is the same as to affiliation fees.

1111' full moon regardless of the calender months, paying attention only
II• the lunar months. Am I right or wrong?"
1. Answer: It will not be necessary to cliilnge your By-Laws to
11111c stated day in the month. Many LodgeS' have provisions for stated
111n1 lnga similar to yours.
2. Sec. 78, Constitution, provides, "Each Lodge shall have not more
than one stated meeting in each lunar month, which shall be designated
11 such in its By-Laws."
By lunar month is meant from full moon to
lull moon. Sec. 1, Art. III of the By-Laws provides, "The stated
meetings of thiS' Lodge shall be holden on the . . . . . . in each month."
All the provisions of the Constitution of which the Uniform Code
..1 By-Laws are now a part must be read together to reconcile appar1•ntly conflicting provisions and ascertain the meaning of particular
provisions.
The words "in each month" in Sec. 1, Art. III, By-Laws, mean
In each calendar month, not each lunar month. So also the word
"months" in Sec. 2, Art. IV, By-Laws. Since "in each month" in the
Hy Laws means "in each calendar month," Sec. 78, Constitution, is only
11 limitation that stated meetings shall not be held oftener than once
tach lunar month.
Referring to foregoing table showing dates of full moon it appears
that Monday, March 25, is "before" full moon ' 1on" April 1. If no
regard is paid to calendar month there would be no way to determine
on which date the stated meeting should be held. But as the By-Laws
require a stated meeting "in each (calendar) month," and as there
could be no meeting in March except on March 25, that is the day of
meeting. As only one stated meeting could be held in the lunar month
ending April 1, the next meeting would be April 29.
Committee: We a.re of the opinion that the Grand Master solved
the somewhat complicated problem presented correctly. We recommend
that his decision be approved.
Decision II: Receipts for dues should bear the impress of the seal
of the Lodge from which it is issued. A printed representation of a
1eal is not sufficient. Without the impress of the seal the receipt is
"nuU and of no effect."
Sec. 84, Constitution.

152

Sec. 127, Constitution.
Dues cannot be remitted in advance.
Committee: This decision is correct. We recommend that it be
approved.
Decision ro: A letter to me stated that "the By-Laws provided
that stated meetings were to be held on the Monday on or before the
full moon each month." Then followed the table and pa.ragraph to-wit:
Full moon on February 2 would bring the meeting on Monday,
January 29, 1912.
Full moon on March 3 would bring the meeting on Monday, February 26 1912.
1
Full moon on April 1 would bring the meeting on Monday, March
25, 1912:
Full moon on April 1 would bring the meeting on Monday, April
1, 1912.
Full moon on May 1 would bring the meeting on Monday, April
29, 1912.
Full moon on May 30 would bring the meeting on Monday, May
29, 1912.
"N pw we wish you would straighten out the app11fent tangle. Will
it be necessary to change the By-LilWS to some stated day in the
month? My contention is that we should meet on, Monday on or before

Committee: This decision is in accord with an expl'less provision
of our Constitution. We recommend that it be approved,
Decision 12: A Master of a California Lo\!ge requeated the Master
of another California Lodge to oonfef the Entered Apprentice degree
on a candidate duly received in the first named Lodge. This Wai c;lone.
The Lodge electing the candidate did not in any manner authori~
the Master to request the conferring of such degree PY t4~ othef
Lodge.

154

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Held, that the Master of a· Lodge cannot make such a request until
authorized so to do by his Lodge; that the Entered Apprentice was
an irregular Mason; that the first named Lodge should adopt a' motion
requesting the second named Lodge to confer the first degree upon the
candidate; that thereupon the Lodge that had conferred the degree
upon the request of the said Master should have the Entered Apprentice
brought before it and administer to him the obligation of an Entered
Apprentice and he then would be "healed." ·Or, that he should be
otherwise "healed" in his own Lodge.

Soe. 155, Constitution.
Committee: The Grand Master was correct in his conclusi,on that
the Constitution (Sec. 155) contemplates the conferring of a degree for
another Lodge only upon the request of such other Lodge, and that the
Master should not make such a request in the absence of action by
the Lodge authorizing him to do so.
However, the Entered Apprentice was not an irregular Mason. He had, in fa.ct, received the
first degree in a regular Lodge and was in all respect a regular Entered
Apprentice. Any possible irregularity in the proceedings would be fully
obviated by a subsequent ratifica.tion at a stated meeting by the Lodge
of the action of the Master, without going through the formality of requiring the degree to be conferred anew, in whole or in part. We
recommend the approval of the decision as thus modified.
Decision 13: The Grand Lodge lays corner stones "only of such
buildings as are either strictly Mas1Jnic in their character, or erected
exclusively for public purposes."
Proceedings, 1910, pp. 15, 145.
Proceedings, 1908, p. 32.
Committee: A similar ruling has heretofore received the approval
of the Grand Lodge (Proceedings, 1910, pp. 15, 145), as expressing the
correct policy to be pursued. We recommend that the ruling be
approved.
Decision · 14: I refused to lay a corner stone on Sunday. While
I find no specific prohibition thereof it is against the spirit 'of Masonry:
No Lodgie can confer any degree of Masonry on Sunday. (Sec. 115,
Constitution.) No Lodge meeting can be held on Sunday except for
funer'al services. (Sec. 78, Id) "Our ancient Brethren consecrated
the ~abbath as a day o.f rest from their labors; thereby enjoyin'g frequent opportuniti'es 'to contemplate the glorious works of the creation,
and t6 adore their great Creator.'' , ~ .
·
Committee': ·We· are of the opinion ·that the" action of·the Grand
Master : in . this iriafrer was i.n· a'ccorCI with· the spirit of our law. W~
rceommend its appravaL •·

Decision 15:

155

To ·what extent may Lodge funds be used for pur-

l" ""~ of refreshments and the promotion of fraternal intercourse, and

for the entertainment of the Grand Master and the Grand Officers?
Answer: a·. "The funds, whether derived from fees, dues, rental,
111 ,>fit, or otherwise, are trust funds set apart for the payment of the
1111cessary expenses of the Lodge and for the special calls for charity
for which it was instituted. . .. The Lodge cannot. .. use or permit the
11w of its funds or property or any part of them for any other thing
111hatsoever." Sec. 88, Constitution.
b. There are two exceptions to the above rule, viz : 1. uwhere
funds are donated and accepted in trust for any proper specific .pur1101e, they may be used for it.'' (Sec. 88, Constitution.) 2. "Excepting
that the Lodge may expend in each Masonic year ten per cent of its
t"l al revenue for the preceding Masonic year for purposes of refreshments and the promotion of fraternal intercourse.'' (Sec. 89, Constitution.)
c. The entertainment of the Grand Master and the Grand Officers
with Lodge funds is subject to the prohibition and exceptions of said
Sections 88 and 89 of the Constitution. Lodge funds that can be used for
1uch entertainment must be part of the 10 per cent of the tota·l yearly
revenue allowed to be expended by said Setion 89, or, donated and
accepted for that specific purpose, as provided by Section 88 of the
Constitution. Of course :voluntary contributions for such purpose can
be thus used.
d. "No Lodge shall levy any extra assessment on its members,
for entertainments.'' Section 128, Constitution.
Committee: This decision clearly and concisely states our law upon
the questions discussed. We recommend its approval.
Decision r6: What is meant by "Masonic year" in Section 89 of
the Constitution?
Answer : By "Masonic year" in Section 89 is meant the calendar
year beginning January 1 and ending with December 31 each year.
Committee: This decision is correct. We ~commend that it be
approved.
Decision 17: The Treasurer holds office until his succsesor is in1talled (Sec. 135, Constitution), unless he resigns. His resignation
takes effect immediately unless it specifies a• future time when it is tci
take effect. The Master is the proper custodian of the funds in case
of a vacancy in the office of Treasurer. (Sec. 142, noted, Constitution.)The Master should appoint a Treasurer to fill the unexp-ired term, if
the Lodge does not, by virtue of a dispensation, elect a new Treasurer.
He could appoint the former Treasurer. (Sec. 138, note c, d and ·e;
Con~fitution.)

Committee: This decision is c9rrect. We recommend its approval;

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decision 18: State of facts; The widow of a Mason, who was in
good standing at the time of his death, is taken sick at a plaoe different
from that where the Lodge to which her husband belonged is situated.
She goes to a hospital. She has a capital operation. She is without
means. She asks aid from a Board of Relief at the place where she is
sick. A member of the Board of Relief upon visiting her learns that
she is without means. He wires -the Lodge to which her husband had
belonged, asking "if the home Lodge had a~y objection to giving required aid?" The home · Lodge wired answer, "Give widow necessary
aid." The Board of Relief a few days aft>erwards paid hospital bills
of the widow amounting to $182.00.
Answer: The authority, "Give widow necessary aid" wa.s general,
unconditional, and authorized the Board of Relief to exercise discretion as to the manner and amount of the aid necessary to be given.
(See Sec. 90.) The duty of caring for the widow was on the home
Lodge. The Board of Relief in the place where the widow was sick
are presumed to have acted in accordance with their very best judgment.
as authorized by the home Lodge. The home Lodge should therefore
reimburse them what they expended for this widow. The Board of
Relief were acting as agents for the home Lodge, and if they made a
mistake of judgment that is no reason why the home Lodge should not
bear the burden of the expenses.
Committee: We are of the opinion that the authorization of the
Lodge was properly construed to warrant an expenditure in excess of
$25. It is important for all concerned that the officers of the Lodges
should be very explicit in their authorizations. We recommend that the
decision be approved.
Decision 19: Two Lodges which w.e will call "Lodge A" and
"Lodge B" had "concurrent jurisdiction" in a city in this State. "Lodge
A" received a petition for the degrees from one Mr. G. A. member
of "Lodge B" before the candidate (Mr. G.) was elected, made ob·
jection to him to the Master of "Lodge A,'' which had received his
petition. After the objection the Committee of Investigation asked
and were granted further time. The Committee reported favorably at
the next_ stated meeting and the candidate was elected. Immediately
after the election the candidate was telephoned for and was then
initi-ated in the first degree, the Master's attention being called to the
objection at the time. The member calling attention -to the objection was
a member of the same "Lodg.e A" with the Master. The Master paid no
attention to the objection.
The question is as to the right of a member of a Lodge having
"concurrent jurisdiction" with another Lodge to object to a candidate
being advanced in such other Lodge, and the duty of the Master of such
other Lodge regarding the objection.
·
·

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

157

Answer: By concurrent jurisdiction (Sec. 82, Constitution.), is
11want territorial jurisdiction to receive petitions. Concurrent JUrisdlction of two or more Lodges within the same territory does not give.
, member of a Lodge in such territory any individual Masonic rights
1
In 0th.er Lodges in such territory not enjoyed by a member of another
. .
Masonic Lodge s.ituated outside of such territory:
The right to object to a candidate after election and before 1nit1atlon and thereby prevent initiation belongs only to members of a Lodge
t•, which the candidate applies.
SeC'. 108, Constitution.
Any member of such Lodge in good standin.g may object to ~he
Master of a Lodge to a candidate both before election and after election
nnd before initiation, and such objection, unless withdrawn within sixty
days after election, has the effect of a rejection by. ballot.
Sec. 108, Constitution.
But where a member .of another Lodge, in good standing, assures
the Master that the person elected to receive the degrees In his Lodge
is unworthy or in any way disqualified, the Master should give attention
to such objection (note f, Sec. 111, Constitution), and refrain from
initiating the person until personally satisfied that he is worthy and
qualified.
(Note-Sec. 101, Constitution, requires a secret ballot to be had at
once without any postponemen~, when the Committee .reports fav~rably ..)
Where an objection has been made before election and no mv·est1gation is made, the objection continues as if made after election without
further action by thie objector.
W~re a candidate has pres.ented his petition, and a member of
another Lodge, in good standing, makes an obji;ction to such. candidate
to the Master before election, the Master paymg no attention t~ the
objection, the Committee reporting favorably and the cand1d~te
phoned for, appearing and being initiated in the first degrei;; ~~ch. action
by the Master appears most unseemly, and if such hasty mt1t1at1on the
same night was taken to forestall objection the Master would be open to
severe criticism. It would be a violation of duty. Members of a Lodge
have the right to object to ia candidate after election and before initiation
witho·ut stating a cause therefor. Such action by the Master would ?eprive members of such right. There might arise a cas~ where an immediate initiation might be justified, as Where a candidate was compelled to leave the next morning.
Committee: The decision is correct. We recommend that it be
approvied.
Decision 20: Question: "Is it a Masonic offense for a Mason to
rent his property to be used for purposes of prostitution?"

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALl.li'ORNIA

Answer: Section 316 of our Penal Code makes it a crime to let
any tenement knowing that it is to be used for the purpose of prostitution. Our Supreme Court has declared that the renting of tenements
for purposes of prostitution is against public morals.
·
The renting of a house knowing that it is to be used for the purpose of prostitution \s not only a crime but a flagrant violation of the
moral law. It is therefore a Masonic offense.
Comrt1ittee: This decision is clearly correct. We recommend that
it be approved.
Decision 21: When a candidate presented himself for initiation it
was found that he had an artificial foot. The question was asked if
there was any way to secure a special permit or dispensation to admit
him. My answer was: "No, an applicant who cannot walk without the
use of an artificial foot is ineligible.',.

lie was elected and received the first and second degrees in the Nevada
J'°dge. A protest being made through the Grand Lodge of California to
the Grand Lodge of ·N evadia, the Nevada Subordinate Lodge was directed by the Grand Master of Nevada to send the initiation fee to the
California Lodge together with a full and ample apology~ This was
done by the Nevada Lodge. The fee sent by the Nevada Lodge was
$75. The fee fixed by the California Lodge for the three degrees was
$50. What is the procedure under this state of facts? .
Answer: Section 124 of our Constitution, provides in part as
follows: "No Lodge shall recognize as a Mason any person who, being
at the time a resident of this State, has receiv·ed, or claims to have received, the degrees of Masonry, from any source beyond the jurisdiction
of th~s Grand Lodge, without the proper permission, until the Lodge
nearest his place of residence shall have received him as a member. The
proper permission, above mentioned, may only be given by the Lodge
nearest his place of residence, and in the m.anner necessatry for a11
election to receive the degrees."
One made a Masqn in violation of this Section is not clandestine,
but cannot be recognized as a Mason in California until he complies

Sec. 94, Constitution, note j.
Committee: This decisi~n simply follows one to the same effect
made by this body in 1901 (Vol. 25, Proceedings, pp. 16, 31L) We
recommend its approval.
Decision 22: Complaint was made by the Senior Warden of a
Lodge that the Miaster opened his Lodge at 6 :40 p. m., when the hour··
fixed in the By-Laws was 7 :30 p. m. That before the hours for opening
a candidate was elected to receive the degrees of Masonry. I was
asked to restrain the Lodge from conferring the degrees of Masonry on
the candidate until it was decided whether he was legally elected.
Answer: Section 78, Constitution, is mandatory that the stated
meetings of a Lodge must be convened at the hour and on the day
fixed by the By-Laws; that the acts done before the hour of meeting
were irregular, ra.t best;" that the initiation of the candidate could be
stopped by simple objection if desired; that I would not be justified in
interfering with the Master simply on an ex parte statement by complainant; that the Miaster had a right to be heard; and that if desired I
would take the matter up with him, and that if a 'Master violated the law
in this regard, he would be subject to charges under Section 175, Constitution.
. Committee: This decision is· correct. We deem it proper to add
that we are of the opinion that a Master who convenes a stated meeting
of his Lodge prior to the time fixed by the By-Laws is guilty o( a
serious breach of duty, and that where such action is had for any improper purpose, charges should be preferred against him. We recommend its approval.
Decision 23 : Statement-A. Mr.· M., residing 'within the jurisdiction of a California Lodge applied for the degrees of Masonry to a
Lodge in the Stta.te of Nevada without first obtaining. a waiv·er of
jurisdiction :from the Lodge in California authorized to .grant the same.

with it.

15!)

Sec. 124, note d, Constitution.

In a case like this there are two procedures, viz :
1. Mr. M. may petition the proper California Lodge to waive
jurisdiction in favor of the Nevada Lodge. His petition must be in
writing and state good cause and his request must lie over a month
and the Committee must be appointed and report at the next stated
meeting. (See Section 96, New Constitution.) In the case of a profane
seeking to join a Lodge in a foreign jurisdiction waiv.er can only be
granted by a unanimous vote as provided by Section 124 of the Constitution. His petition for waiver should be raccompanied by the fee
prescribed by the law of the California Lodge for the three degrees.
If your Lodge should grant the waiver they could retain the fee or
return it, as they decide.
2. The other method of· procedure is for Mr. M. to present a
petition to your Lodge for the degrees in the same manner that any
profane would do. Such petition would take the same course a.s any
ordinary petition. If the Investigating Committee report favorably and
he should be elected, the Secretary of the Nevada Lodge could certify
that he had received the first two degrees in that Lodge, which certificate should be attested by the hand and seal of the Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge of the State of Nevada. The third degree of Masonry
could then be conferred upon him by your Lodge, or by the Nevada
Lodge at your request, which request should be made through the
Grand Master of California to the Grand Mra.st·er of Nevada. The conferring of the third degree could be considered as ·having healed Mr.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M., or you could require that all three degrees be agairt conferred upon
him. He having taken the first three degrees as stated gives him no
rights wbatevet" under California Masonry.
You have a moral and legal right to the initiation fee ·o f $50. The
balance, $25, you would iiave to return. If Mr. M. should be rejected
on application, or if you should refuse a request for waiver, you should
return the whole fee. If you waive jurisdiction you can keep or return
the $50 fee as you decide.

on him. Such election and conferring· of the 'degree on him by the
California Lodge would ·make him a member of the Oalifornia Lodge
.and fully ratify the action of the Nevada Lodge in conferring the
tint two degrees. (See Secs. 113 and 155, Constitution).
All this was definitely decided by this Grand Lodge in the year
1900, in approving a report of the Committee on Jurisprudence, which
1 ontains a full discussion of the subject.
Vol. 24, Proc., p. 866.
It has been decided that a California Lodge receiving an appli' ation from one situated as is Mr. M., may require the full fee
provided by its by-laws for the three degrees (Sec. 124, Constitution,
note "e" ). This amount, in the event of election or wiaiver, it may
deduct from the amount voluntarily paid to it by the Nevada Lodge,·
returning the balance to the applicant in the event that he is received
us a member, or to the Nevada Lodge in the e'V'ent of a waiver of
Jurisdiction. If Mr. M. be rejected on application, and a waiver of
Jurisdiction is not granted, the whole $75 shall be returned to the
Nevada lodge.
It should be added, in regard to the fees, that it is entirely within
the discr·etion ·of the California Lodge to require or to waive the
payment of fees for the degrees actually conferred by the Nevada
1,odge. Where a California Lodge receives such a person as a member it is bound to charge and receive the fee prescribed by its by-laws
for any degree it actually confers, or that is c-0nferred by another Lodge
for it, at i.ts request, and it is likewise bound to charge and receive
at 1east an amount equal to the sum prescribed by its by-laws for affiliation, when it receives as a member one who has received all the degrees in a Lodge of another state or country. In its discretion, it
may charge and receive a larger sum in all such cases, never, however,
exceeding in any case, the aggregate of the fee prescribed by its by-laws
for all the degrees. In the event of a waiver of jurisdiction in favor
of a foreign Lodge, it may grant such waiver without any payment
whatever, or it may charge and receive any sum n-0t exceeding the
full charge made by its by-laws for all the degrees. As was said
by the Committee on Jurisprudence in 1877 r·cgarding a waiver of
jurisdiction over a pers-0n not a Mason in favor of another Lodge
in this state (Vol. 13, Proc., p, 181), "the Lodge 'having the exclusive
right to receive the petition and the fees, may surrender its right as
to one or both, or may refuse as to either or both." · The same is true
as to a. waiver in favor of a foreign Lodge. But where it unconditionally waives jurisdiction, it ,loses all right to the fees and cannot
subsequently demand them (Proc. 1898, Vol. 23 Proc., p. 850).
We recommend ~hat the decision of the Grand Master be approved
in so far as it is in accord with · the views herein expr~sed, and
that in all other respects it be not approved.
•·

160

Sec. 124, Constitution, note e.
(Note-A waiver of jurisdiction from a Lodge in this jurisdiction
to another Lodge herein, also waives the right to the fee, and only re·
quires a majority vote. (Sec. 96, Constitution, note f.)
. Committee: We are not entirely in accord with the views expressed by the Grand Master in this decision. As stated t1herein,
it is settled that one made a Mason under such circumstances as are ·
here detailed is not clandestine. Mr. M. was made and passied in a
Lodge existing under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Nevada,
and the only penalty prescribed by our Constitution for his action in
applying for and receiving degrees from a Lodge beyond the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, he being a resident of this State, without
"proper permission" from the Lodge nearest his place of residence, is
that he cannot be recognized as a Mason in this State "until thle Lodge
nearest his place of residence shall have received him as a member."
(Sec. 124, Constitution, and note "d" to said section). His status is
clearly defined in a report of the Jurisprudence Committee, approved
by this Grand Lodge in the year 1894. Vol. 21, Proc., p. 762. We have no .
doubt that although he in fact received the two degrees from the Nevada
Lodge "without the proper permission," such "proper permission" as to
all three degrees may still be given by the proper California Lodge, in
the manner stated by the Grand Master in the paragraplhi of his
decision numbered 1, and that, if such permission should be granted,
and the Nevada Lodge should then confer upon him the third degree,
as it would clearly h<a,ve the right to do, he would be entitled to
recognition in this State as a Master Mason. To this extent, we
agree with the views expressed by the Grand Master. But we canno.t
subscribe to all the views expressed in the paragraph of the decision
numbered 2, stating "the other method of procedure" to be followed.
All th!at is essential to entitle Mr. M. to be recognized as a Mason in
California, under the circumstances stated, is that "the Lodge nearest
(Sec.
his place of residence shall have received him as a member."
124, Constitution). This such Lodge may do by electing him, on proper
application and after the usU'al reference to committee, etc., to receive
the third degree of Masonry, provided he have the official consent or
_waiver of jurisdiction of the Nevada Lodge, and conferring such degree

11

161

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Decision 24: A man residing in California went to the State of
Kansas to visit his home and while there joined a Kansas Masonic
Lodge. He then returned to California and endeQ.vored to visit the
Lodge at the place of his residence in California.
I advised that 'he could not visit the Lodge in California because
he was an irregular Mason. I wrote to the Grand Master of Kan·
sas and upon receiving my letter he ordered the Kansas Lodge to
apologize to the California Lodge which had· jurisdiction of the man
who had been made a Miason in Kansas, and to send that Lodge the
fee which h::id been paid in Kansas. I advised the California Lodge
that they could receive an application from him for the degrees, and
if elected, that he could be "healed."
Sec. 124, Constitution, note "e." _
Committet: This decision was correct in so far as it was lield
that the man was not entitled to recognition as a Mason in California,
until he had been received as a member by the California Lodge
!having territorial jurisdiction over the place where he resided. In
view of what we have already said as to Decision 23, h~ could be
so received by such Lodge as a member by affiliation, on a dimit
from the Kansas Lodge. Such reception would make hirn a member
of the California Lodge, fully entitled to recognition as a Master
Mason. As indicated in our report on Decision 23, the California
Lodge, if tt desires to do so, may require the full fee prescribed by its
by-laws for the three degrees, applying to the payment of the same
the money received from the Kansas Lodge. Or it may require the
payment of any portion of such fee. that it s·ees fit, and in any event must
collect as much as the amount required by its by-laws for affiliation . .
In the event that it refuse to receive the applicant as a member, it ·
should return to the Kansas Lodge the money received by it therefrom, and in any event should return to the Kansas Lodge any surplus remaining after deducting the amount c'harged by it.
We recommend thiat the decision of the Grand Master be approved
in so far as it is in accord with the views herein expressed, and that
in all other respects it be disapproved.

W.'. Grand Master of Nevada, concernihg the initiating, passing
and raising by Douglas Lodge No. 12 of the jurisdiction of Nevada
•>f persons residing in Alpine county, California, are fully deter-

162

The entire report was approved by the Grand Lodge,
and the recommendations adopted.
Brother Angellotti, for the CommittEe on Jurisprudence,
also pt'esented the followittg:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge <Jf California:
~he questions presented by the portion of the Grand Master's
address relating· to the oorrespondence between himself and the M. ·.

163

mined by what we have said in our report on Dedsions 23 and 24.
and need not be further discussed here. As is established by th~
action of this body on that report, those who have thus been made
Master Masons in Douglas Lodge No. 12 of New.da were not either
Irregular or clandestine Masons. They simply cannot be recognized
RS Masons in Callfornia until they have been received as members
by the California Lodge in whose territory they resided at the time
of their a pplication to the Nevada Lodge, unless such California Lodge
waives jurisdiction in favor of the Nevada Lodge in the manner
specified by the Grand Master in his Decision No. 23. They may be
received as members by the California Lodge, by application, with
the consent of the Nevada Lodge. The matter of fees is fully determined by your a.ction on our report on Decisions 23 and 24. .
We have no doubt that Douglas Lodge No. 12 of Nevada has
acted in perfect good faith in this matter, and we cannot refrain
from ex pressing our appreciation of the courtesy and Masonic spirit
shown by the M:. W: . Giiand Master of Nevada in his correspondence wit h our M. '. w:. Grand Master. We have no doubt
that the· jurisdictions of Nevada and California will always, as he
desires, "dwell together in amity and ooncord, peace and harmony
prevailing.'.'
0

F. M. ANGi.LLoTTI,
WM.

s. WELLS,

CHAS. L. PA'l"l'ON,

MoTLI!\' H. Ft.rl'l''i',

Gl!O. M. P!!RINE,
Committee

This was approved by Grand Lodge.
In the matter of defining territorial jurisdiction of
Lodges, recommended last year by Past Grand Mast.er
Weller, an amendment to the Constitution was presented
and referred to the Committee on Jurlsptudettce, and on
motion of lJrother Bonner, the <:onsidEration thereof was
made special order for Friday morning.·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PHOCEEDINGS OF -THE

164

w:·:

. M.'.
Frank M. Angellotti; Chairman of the Commit~ee on Jurisprudence, reported as to "Building Fund"
resolution as folJ01Ws.
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California :

Brothers Wollenberg, Benton, Hammond and Griffith present the
following proposed amendment to our Constitution :
"Whereas, one of the principal .tenets of our Order is relief, and
we further are · obligated to properly aid and assist the stricken of
our craft; and
"Whereas; in furtherance thereof, we have provided ·homes for our
indigent and afflicted, but tlhe inadequate housing facilities and
generally inappropriate conditions of our homes, both at San Gabriel
and at Decoto, prohibit the proper carrying out of our duties as aforenamed; and
"Whereas, not less than fiffy thousand dollars will be required
immediately for the erection of new buildings to suitably fit said
homes for the purposes for whieh they are intended; and
"Whereas, the present general funds of the Grand Lodge are inadequate to ameliorate the aforenamed wants of said hoines, which
said wants are urgent and pressing :
"Now therefore be it Resolved, that Subdivision 2 of Section 41
(Sub. 2, Section 4, Ar.t. IX, P1art I) of the Constitution be amended
to read as follows :
"For each Master Mason borne upon its· roll at the date of its
annual report, the sum of seventy-five cents ; together with such sum as ··
the Grand Lodge shall appropriate at each Communication for the
support of the Masonic Homes of California; provi-ded, that in addition to the sums herein mentioned, each of said Lodges shall con·
tribute as annual dues the further sum of fifty cents for each Master
Mason borne upon its roll at the date of its annual report, the sum
thus raised to constitute a building fund for said homes."
The only change in our existing law proposed by this, is tlhe addltion of the proviso. Under the section as it now stands, each Lodge
pays to the Grand Lodge, annually, seventy-five cents for each Master
Mason borne upon its roll at the date . of its annual report, for
general expenses, and such additional sum as may be fixed by the
Grand Lodge for the 111aintenance of the Masonic Homes.
If this proposed amendment be adopted, each Lodge will continue to pay tlhese sums, and in addition will pay to the Grand
Lodge, annually, fifty cents for each Master Mason borne upon its

1ull

165

at the date of its annual report, the same to be used solely for

building purposes for the Miasonic Homes.
There is no legal objection to the proposed amendment.

Whether

•>r not the proposed tax should be levied is solely a question of
11l)Jlcy. If it be desired to levy the same, the proposed amendment
1ho11ld be adopted.
We report the same back without other recommendation.
Respectfully submitted,

F. M. ANGliLLOTTI,
.WM.
W!LLS,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
MoTUY H. F~,INT,
Glio. M. PliRIN!,

s.

Committee.

After some little debate, on motion of Brother Robert
1:. Allan, the amendment was adopted by unanimous vote.

Brother Goldaracena, Chairman of the Committee on
Finance, presented the following report from that Committee :
To the M.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of CaJifornia:

Your Committee on Finance beg leave to report as follows :
BOARDS OJ! RliLil(I!,

We ha~ received and carefully considered the reports of the
Boards of Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego, Sacramento, San Jose, Oakland and Pasadena, and offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $10,100 be, and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as
follows, viz :

To the Board of Relief of San Francisco .................... $5,000.00
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles ...................... 4,000.00
To the Board of Relief of San Diego ........................ . (JOO,()()
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento .................. .'... . 500.00

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SALARIES OF GRAND OFFICJlRS,

We have likewise had under consideration the matter of salaries
of the Grand Lodge Officers, and beg leave to report thereon as
follows, and make the following recommendations :
For salary of the Grand Treasurer . ... ... ... ... .. .. . . .. .. .. .. $ 200.00
For salary of t!he Grand Secretary . . ....... . .. . . .. . . .... , . . . . . 3,600.00
For salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,800.00
F or salary of the Grand Organist. . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
60.00
. For salary of the Grand Tyler. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125.00
For services of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200.00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used in
defraying actual expenses incurred by him in performance
of his duties, and to be paid in equal quarterly installments
if required ....... . ..... .. .......... ... .... ... .. . ... '. ...... 1,200.llO
For salary of the Grand Lecturer. , ... . . . . . ......... . .... ... . . 2,400.00
No amount has been designated for the contingent expenses of the
Grand Lecturer. As your Committee is unable to determine the amount
required, we !'ecommend that the Grand Lecturer file with the Grand
Secretary an itemized account of his actual expenses incurred in the
discharge of his duties; said account, when presented, to be audited
by the Committee on Accounts and paid as other accounts are paid.
MASONIC HOMES.

Your Committee has carefully considered the question of the
maintenance of our Masonic Homes at Decato and San Gabriel, and
are of the opinion that, as heretofore, the tax of $1.00 per capita
should l>e continued. We are also of the opinion that the water
system at the Ma.sonic Home at Decato is wholly inadequate for its
present needs, and that prompt measures should be taken to install
a proper water system in said Home. We, therefore, offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the usual per capita tax of $1.00 be levied· on our
membership for the maintenance of said Decato and San Gabriel
Homes; and, further, that the sum of $5,000.00, and such additional
amount as in t:he opinion of the incoming M.'. W.'. Grand Master
may seem proper, be appropriated from the general fund of this
Grand Lodge for the purpose of developing and , installing a water
sys~em, and other necessary improvements in said Masonic Homes.
Your Committee on Finance has likewise considered the resolµtion referr·ed to it making an appropriation for the purpose of
defraying expenses to be incurred by the Endowment Committee of
the Masonic Homes of California in the discharge of its duties during

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

the ensuing y·ear; and we are of the opinion that, inasmuch as .it
11. not possible to ascertain at this time what the expenses of said
l oJmmittee may be, we offer the following resolution, and recommend
Its adoption:
Resolved That .the Endowment Committee of the M!lsonic Homes
·>f Californi; file with the Grand Secretary an itemized statement of
actual expenses incurred in the discharge of its duties as such Committee during the ensuing year; said account to be au?ited by the
Committee on Accounts, rand paid as other accounts are paid.
Your Committee also recommends .the following resolution:
Be and It Is Hereby Resolved, That the sum of $250.00 be appropriated from the general fund of this Grand Lodge to defray contingent expenses of the present annual Communication.
Wi~h reference to that portion of .the M.'. W.'. Grand Master's
Address regarding a circular letter from the Grand Secretary of the
"Supreme Government of the Grand East of the Neth~rlan~s" asking for an appropriation from this Grand Lodge to provide six ~reat
electric candles for the great meeting hall of the Court of Arbitration, your Committee recommends against any appropriation of moneys
from the funds of this Grand Lodge for this purpose.
Respectfully submitted,
0 . M. GoLDARACENA,
RALPH !.,owl!,

w. A. SHERMAN,

E. B. SPl!NCJlR,
D. B. CRANE,
Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.
Brother Wollenberg introduced the following resolution:
R esolved, That the Trustees of t!he Masonic Homes be author ..
ized to s-ell approximately one hundred acres of land on the west end
of the Decoto Home, at such time as they deem advisable, the moneys
so obtained to be apportioned to the building fund of said Homes.

The above was considered with the final· action on the
report of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes, and
was adopted, as well as the report of the Trustees, the
matter of finance having been covered by the adoption of
the report thereon of the Finance Committee.

I

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother Bradford W ebs.ter, Chairman of the Committee
on Report of Grand Lecturer, presented the following interesting report:

ahown in the beautiful and instructive lecture which epitomizes the
third degree. We hope with Brother Baker that the time is not far
distant when the learning of this lecture will be universal and compulsory, as in the lectures of the first and second degrees.
The list of places where Lodges of instruction have been held
again emphasizes the unexampled industry which characterizes Brother
Baker's administ~ation.
It is especially gratifying to note tha.t new temples are being
erected, and tha,t the sentiment is increasingly in favor of Lodges owning'
their own homes.
In conclusion, we must say that Brother Baker's report shows not
only industry and enthusiasm, but thoroughness and clear insight
into Masonic problems. It is evident here that Brother Baker's is
no "eye and lip" service, but, as we said before, that his heart is
in the work to the great and lasting good of this grand jurisdiction,
nnd of the individual Masons who compose the rank and file of the
great Masonic Army of California.
Respectfully submitted,
A. B. WEBS'l'ER,

w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom is referred the annual report of the
v. ·. w: . .Grand Lecturer have had the same under consideration and
report as follows :
To the M.".

it is evident at the outset that the painstaking, efficient and enthusiastic labors of our v:. w:. Brother ha,v e continued to mark tht!
administration of his office.
No man whose heart was not in the work could continue without
varying the arduous duties of the office of Grand Lecturer. It is
apparent from !l11s report that, not only has there been no wearying,
but rather a fuller and deeper insight into Masonic problems as the
years have gone by, so that the office has become not alone the
fountain-head of ritualistic perfection, but the source of information,
counsel and guidance for those inexperienced in Masonic law and
tradition.
The Grand Lecturer makes timely and pithy comment on the
great care necessary in scrutinizing candidates for admission to the
Order. Now that Masonry has become popular, it well behooves us
to guard the outer door with peculiar care and discrimination.
Again, the Grand Lecturer has "hit :the nail on the head" in
his comment on the care to be taken in the selection of officers gen.
erally, and of Secretaries in particular.
We agree most hea.rtily wit'h the Grand Lecturer that the Annotated Constitution "fills a long-felt want," and that our deepest gratitude is due to its author.
That Brother Baker is ever on the alert to inaugurate some
pleasing and instructive custom which will increase interest in the
work is evidenced by the Inspector's degrees and his comments upon
them.
We note with pleasure· that the Grand Lecturer is able to report
a marked improvement in the ritualistic work, and that the Inspectors
have done their little to hold up the hands of their chief.
Brother Baker's report and comment on the third degree coaching lecture is both encouraging and instructive. Nothing has been
quite so painful in past years as the marked contrast between the
proficiency of initiates in the first and second degrees and their blissful
ignorance upon the third degree. Nothing but the reduction of the
sublime degree to systematic form could have solved this difficulty,
and it is only another evidence of the unwavering enthusiasm of
Brother Baker that the effort was made and the result attained, as

169

FRED E. VINCENT,

]NO. B.

OSBORNE,

Committee.

Brother Elmore M. Billings, Chairman of the Committee on Returns, reported as follows:
To the M.". W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The growth of Masonry in our Grand Jurisdiction, as shown by the
returns herewith submitted, is splendid, and has no parallel.
All
Masons can study the returns and reports on this subject with pride,
and your Committee believe, as suggested by the Grand Secretary in
his report, that we will soon carry ninety thousand members on our
Grand Lodge Roster. And it is certain tha,t there are today within the
bqrders of our Grand Jurisdiction more than ninety thousand
good men and true who would honor our Lodges and !help us in the
great work we have to do if they were initiated into our mysteries and
became interested in our work of uplifting mankind. Still, Brethren, do
not forget tha.t not every man would make a valuable Masonic asset.
There are two conditions to which we desire to call your attention: A
brief study of our Masonic charities and the vast sums we so cheerfully expend in that behalf points with certainty to the fact that we
should look well to this side of the subject before receiving a petition

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and be convinced that he who would enter our gates must be able, as
well as willing, to extend his opportunities to do good to his fellow
men. A strong ~uspicion that mercenary motives are not entirely absent
may well arise where the petitioner has not sought fellowship in our
institution until the vigor of youth and manhood is frosted with "the
snows of winters that never melt." Then, Brethren, in the all important and sacredly secret consultation as to the advisabmty of receiving
a petition, let us never forget tpe duty we owe to our members, our
Lodges and to Masonry in general ; and that the common multitude
has no value to be compared with "the chosen few."
We have examined the returns of the Lodges for the current
year, with the assistance of the Grand Secretary, and take pleasure
in repor.t ing that the returns of all Lodges have been received by that
officer; that most of them were prepared correctly; that those that were
erroneous have since been corrected by the Secretaries, upon notice
thereof; that the dues in nearly every instance have accompanied the
reports, and that all dues have now been paid.
The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this jurisdiction were indebted, and which have all been paid, are as follows:

California ......... .
Wes tern Star ...... .
Tehama .... . .. . ... .
Benicia .... .... ... . . .
Tuolumne .. . . .. .. . .
Corinthian . ....... . .
San Jose ...... .. .. ..
Yount ......... .... ..
Nevada .. .. ... . ... . .
Temple ............ .
Eureka . . . .. . .. ... . .
La Parfaite Union ..
Mountain Shade .. . . .
San Joaquin ..... . .. .
Washington .. . . . . . .
Hawaiian ...... . . . . .
Occidental . . ....... .
Madison ...... . .. .. .
Mariposa ........ . . .
Georgetown . . .... . .
Palmyra . ...... . . . . .
Trinity ... . .. . .. ... .

Allowed
General Home
Fund.
Total. Rep'tives.
Fund.
1 $ (J()3,60 $ 584.00 $ 1,187.00 $ 35.00
185.40
48.50
2
89.40
96.00
448.al
3
230.20
218.00
34.50
252.10
5
133.10
119.00
140.00
268.00
8
128.00
35.75
130.00
259.00
37.25
9
129.00
807.50
33.25
395.00
10
412.50
156.00
12
161.40
317.40
38.50
348.50
42.00
13
173.50
175.00
67.00
133.30
38.00
14
66.30
92.00
194.80
16
102.80
36.75
17
182.50
165.00
347.50
35.00
34.00
64.60
52.00
18
30.00
542.30
31.00
267.00
19
275.30
303.10
34.50
20
154.10
149.00
305.00
21
313.75
618.75
562.00
543.80
l,105.80
35.00
22
130.00
258.00
41.50
23
128.00
52.00
24
46.80
98.80
42.00
109.90
40.75
51.00
25
58.90
197.00
383.30
38.50
26
186.30
57.00
116.30
27
59.30

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

C1>lden Gate. . . . . . . . .
1 :.,Jd Hill... . ...... ..
<)phir ...... ...... ..
!IRn Diego. . . . . . . . . . .
St. John's............
Santa Cruz. . . . . . . . . .
Yuba . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sncramento . . . . . . . . .
Martinez . . . . . . .. . . ...
Los Angeles.. . . . . . . .
lliram ........ .....
Mount Moriah......
Crescent . . . .. . . . . ....
Texas . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Forbestown ..... . . ,
I llinoistown . . . . . . . .
Suisun .... . . , , . . . . . .
Volcano . . . . . . . . .... .
Santa Rosa. . . . . . . . . .
Union . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Gravel Range-_ . . . . . . .
Plumas .......... . .
Live Oak......... . . . .
George Washington. .
Natoma ..... . ......
Amador .... .. . .... . .
Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Morning Star . . . . . . . .
Enterprise . . . . . . . . . .
Bear Mountain. . . . . .
Calaveras .. ....... .
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . .
Ione . . . . ... . . . . . ... ..
Yolo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Rising Star. . . . . . . . .
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Naval ....... ........
Rose's Bar. . . . . . . . . .
North Star. . . . . . . . . .
Acacia . . . . . . . . . . . . .
St. Helena . . . . . . . . . .
Henry Clay. . . . . . . . .

30
32
33
35

37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
64
65
66
68
70

76
78

79
80
81
83
84
87
89
91
92
93
95

General
Fund.
515.40
43.40
61.10
478.60
109.80
219.40
79.50
187.00
108.30
441.60
33.10
335.00
76.20
28.00
29.70
51.70
104.20
26.20
288.30
238.70
29.10
67.00
650.10
47.50
70.90

Home
Fund.
486.00
46.00
• 59.00
424.00
112.00
216.00
85.00
180.00
107.00
364.00
29.00
324.00
78.00
30.00
33.00
53.00
98.00
28.00
277.00
233.00
29.00
70.00
669.00
45.00
71.00

77.30

77.00

49.20
239.00
191.00
95.00
66.00
306.80
52.10
39.20
56.70
158.30
402.00
00.00
50.80
27.30
107.50
56.10

38.00
210.00
160.00
100.00
70.00
312.00
49.00
38.00
53.00
157.00
350.00
50.00
52.00
27.00
95.00
59.00

171
Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
1,001.40
35.00
89.40
36.25
120.10
39.25
902.60
12.50
221.80
57.00
435.40
31.25
164.50
37.25
367.00
34.50
215.30
34.25
805.60
62.10
35.00
659.00
52.50
154.20
31.50
58.00
62.70
38.50
104.70
202.20
35.00
54.20
45.00
38.50
565.30
471.70
34.50
58.10
137.00
47.50
1,319.10
35.00
92.50
29.75
141.90
35.25
154.30
38.00
87.20
50.00
449.00
31.00
351.00
38.50
37.50
195.00
136.00
37.25
618.80
55.00
35.00
101.10
77.20
36.25
109.70
40.00
315.30
45.50
752.00
35.00
110.00
40.25
102.80
61.50
.54.30
202.50
115.10
38.00

172

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General
Fund.
Howard ....... ····· 96
Jefferson ........ . ... 97
Hornitos ... ... ...... 98
La Grange .. . ....... 99
Clay .. .... .... ..... 101
Oroville ............ 103
Lexington ........... 104
Arcata ........ .... . 106
Pajaro . . . ·· ··· .. ... 110
Chico .... ...... .... 111
Summit .. ... ... .... 112
Eden ............... 113
Concord ...... . .... . . 117
Clinton ............ 119
Fidelity . . . . ··· ····· 120
Alamo ... .... ....... 122
Sotoyome ..... ..... 123
Table Mountain . . ... 124
La Fayette ........ .. 126
H1e·rmann ..... ... .. 127
Visalia ··· ······· ··· 128
Nicholaus ... ....... 129
Woodbridge .. ...... 131
Sincerity ... ........ 132
Yosemite ····· ··· .. 133
Vacaville ... .... ... 134
Valley ... .......... 135
Pacific ..... ........ 136
Crockett ............ 139
Curtis ... ....... .... 140
Grafton ... .... .. .. . 141
Franklin ·· ········· 143
Oriental ...... ...... 144
Vitruvius ········ ·· 145
Abell .... .......... 146
Eel River ····· · .... 147
Lassen ... ... ....... 149
Molino ... ... ...... 150
Woodland ........ .. 156
Keystone ····· ..... 161
Harmony ······ ·· ·· 164
Excelsior · ······· ·· 166

77.90
45.30
32.40
97.20
59.00
182.60
88.60
106.80
115.10
211.40
38.70
154.50
110.20
41.40
518.10
70.90
168.30
56.70
135.50
194.30
141.80
62.10
82.50
37.80
13.70
125.20
39.00
694.70
387.70
58.50
31.20
54.90
337.80
60.60
144.20
131.40
95.70
71.60
169.20
31.20
15.70
405.60

Home
Fund.
81.00
47.00
36.00
98.00
60.00
174.00
84.00
112.00
119.00
216.00
33.00
125.00
108.00
46.00
499.00
71.00
157.00
63.00
125.00
207.00
142.00
69.00
85.00
42.00
13.00
128.00
40.00
613.00
373.00
55.00
28.00
61.00
362.00
54.00
128.00
116.00
103.00
64.00
178.00
28.00
13.00
404.00

Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
158.90
58.00
92.30
49.00
32.00
68.40
195.20
119.00
356.60
39.00
172.60
.60
218.80
55.00
234.10
427.40
40.00
71.70
31.25
279.50
35.00
218.20
34.50
51.75
87.40
1,017.10
35.00
141.90
35.CO
325.30
39.00
119.70
41.50
260.50
38.50
401.30
35.00
283.80
20.25
131.10
37.00
167.50
32.00
79.80
34.00.
26.70
253.20
36.75
79.00
32.50
1,307.70
35.00
760.70
35.00
113.50
40.50
59.20
115.90
699.80
35.00
114.60
40.50
272.20
43.50
247.40
57.50
61.50
198.70
135.60
44.75
347.20
41.50
59.20
28.70
53.00
809.60
35.00

\ lnmeda ........ ... 167
lledwood City ...... 168
Mission . ... .... .... 169
Rik Grove ... .... ... 173
l>rytown . ... ... .. .. 174
o\ntioch . ... .... .... 175
11hoenix . ..... ...... 178
Mendocino . ... ..... 179
!1etaluma . ..... .... 180
l~ussian River . .. .. . 181
Meridia n · ......... .. 182
Clear Lake ·· ·· ···· 183
Sierra, VaUey . ..... 184
Claiborne . ...... ... 185
F.vening Star ... ... 186
Keith . ... ..... ... .. 187
Oakland ···· ·· .. .... 188
Northern Light .... 190
Marin ...... ... ... .. 191
Santa Barbara . ..... 192
Ferndale ···· ····· .. 193
Mountain View . ... 194
Buckeye . .. .... .. .. 195
San Simeon . ... .... 196
Wilmington . ..... .. 198
Hartley . .... .. ... .. 199
Truckee .. .... . ..... 200
Silveyville .......... 201
Pentalpha .... . .. ... 202
Confidence ..... . .... 203
Salinas . ... .. ...... 204
Newville . .. ... . .... 205
Stanislaus ..... .... . 206
Anaheim ........... 207
Rio Vista . . .. .. .. .. 208
King David's ...... 209
Friendship .. " ..... 210
San Benito . . . ..... 211
South San Francisco 212
San Buenaventura .. . 214
Oak Grove ..... .. .. 215
Doric . .. . ....... . . . 216

General
Fund.
119.20
113.20
848.50
75.90
21.60
96.60
248.70
126.20
215.00
70.50
43.60
25.40
36.30
48.00
41.30
92.90
592.00
76.50
217.30
150.80
92.50
80.30
81.90
37.20
43.60
105.30
108.50
67.70
490.70
26.30
136.60
42.80
84.50
76.40
55.30
240.60
268.20
106.20
176.20
125.60
421.70
464.20

Home
Fund.
98.00
108.00
885.00
71.00
24.00
94.00
233.00
128.00
210.00
75.00
44.00
26.00
37.00
50.00
37.00
101.00
540.00
75.00
217.00
142.00
95.00
77.00
81.00
38.00
44.00
107.00
115.00
73.00
503.00
27.00
144.bo
43.00
85.00
76.00
57.00
183.00
258.00
98.00
178.00
124.00
433.00
458.00

173
Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
34.50
217.20
34.50
221.20
35.00
1,733.50
33.50
146.90
38.00
45.60
37.00
190.60
3.75
481.70
50.00
254.20
38.00
425.00
39.00
145.50
37.75
87.60
51.40
73.30
45.00
98.00
64.00
78.30
31.00
193.90
35.00
1,132.00
5075
151 .50
35.50
434.30
7.00
292.80
56.00
187.50
33.75
157.30
38.00
162.90
2875
75.20
.75
87.60
49.25
212.30
223.50
37.00
140.70
993.70
29.00
53.30
28.50
280.60
. 49.75
85.80
29.50
169.50
1.75
152.40
41.00
112.30
21.75
423.60
33.25
526.20
31.75
204.20
35.00
354.20
5.00
249.60
36.00
854.70
35.00
922.20

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Monterey ··· ····· .. 217
Mosaic
··· ···· ···· ·· 218
Speranza Italiana . ... 219
Downey ········ ·· .. 220
Inyo ... : ....... .... 221
Granite ··· ·· ' .... ... 222
Bakersfield ......... 224
Brooklyn ........... 225
San Mateo .... . ... 226
Athens ............. 228
Solano . .. . ' ....... 229
North Butte ...... . . 230
Covelo ............. 231
Janesville '·'····· .. 232
Calistoga ... .. ..... 233
Hope ······ ··· ·· .. . 234
Surprise Valley ... . 235
Hill's Ferry .1 • • • • • • 236
Guadalupe . . . . . ... .. 237
Colusa ......... . . .. 240
Santa Ana . . .... .... 241
Magnolia .... ... .. . 242
Eucalyptus
'' '· ·· ··· 243
Alcatraz . . .. ...... .. 244
Laurel . . .. .. . .... ... 245
Pottoma .. . .. .... .. . 246
Fresno .....•• .. .. .. 247
Alturas . . .... . ..... 248
Adin . ... .... ... .... 250
Bodie, ...... ... .. ... 252
Landmark ...... .. .. 253
Reading • ... .... . ... 254
Wielcome ' .•. . .. . . . . 255
Lodi .......... . .. .. . 256
Pettrhyn ••....... ... 258
Evergreen ..... : ... . 259
King Solothbh's . . .. 260
Tu@can .a.1.1 , •. , • • 261
Lo1:t1poc •... ' . . . . .. . 262
Hesperian . ... .. .. . . 264
Orland .•..•. ' ... ... 265
North East ' . . . . . . 2(>6
~

~

General
Fund.
117.30

98.70
189.20
107.10
54.40
65.30
319.40
367.40
143.10
87.40
259.70
81.20
48.50
73.20
84.50
58.50
46.20
52.90
79.80
76.10
248.60
98.70
95.00
·398.60
130.20
277.70
320.80
69.40
52.40
40.80
37.80
178.00
83.80
155.30
76.60
313.10
520.80
58.40
106.70
231.90
74.00
34.40

Home
Fund.
97.00
93.00
188.00
79.00
56.00
57.00
286.00
306.00
139.00
76.00
223.00
68.00
45.00
58.00
75.00
55.00
48.00
51.00
62.00
79.00
274.00
93.00
90.00
374.00
98.00
283.00
312.00
66.00
46.00
42.00
32.00
160.00
82.00
147.00
74.00
319.00
522.00
56.00
103.00
221.00

70.00
36.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
214.30
30.25
191.70
33.00
377.20
35.00
186.10
.75
110.40
24.75
122.30
36.00
605.40
14.50
673.40
35.00
282.10
35.00
163.40
35.25
482.70
35.00
149.20
38.50
93.50
67.50 '
131.20
59.50
159.50
37.50
113.50
.
94.20
82.00
103.90
28.35
141.80
16.00
155.10
40.75
558.60
2.25
191.70
7.00
185.00
34.50
772.60
35.00
228.20
40.25 .
560.70
2.25
632.80
22.25
135.40
77.00
98.40
68.75
82.80
61.00
69.80
38.50
338.00
47.75
165.80
21.25
302.30
32.00
150.60
36.25
632.10
3.75
1,042.80
35.00
114.40
38.50
209.70
12.50
452.90
19.SO
144.00
44.00
70.40
90.00

....

alt ... . .. . ...... . . 267
Durant ...... .. ... . 268
<>live Branch ...... 269
:--,, IW Mountain .... 271
11uadena .......... 272
\ nchor . .. . . . .. .... . 273
\ rroyo .. . .... : .... 274
( )nkclale ... . .. ...... 275
:le Ima .. . .... .. ... . . 277
~' >Uthern California . . 278
I IRnford ........... 279
Madera . . .......... 280
Mount Shasta ...... 281
•'nllnyomi .. ... ·· ··· 282
:- mth West .... . ... 283
;Inn Miguel ... . ... . 285
Paso Robles . . . . . . 286
Winneduma'h . ...... 287
Mnxwell . . .. .. ..... 288
Jtlsinore .... .... ... 289
ltnst Gate ... .... ... 290
l~nnta Paula . ..... . . 291
J,os Gatos . .. . . ..... 292
Orange Grove ...... 293
Traver . .. . ~ · . . . .... 294
Mt. J ackson ..... ... 295
Silver Gate ... . . . ... 296
l>unsmuir . . ·..... . . . 297
Mokelumne Hill . ... 298
I,iberty ........... . 299
Redlands .... ...... 300
Ontario .... . ... . ... 301
Snnta Lucia ........ 302
Porterville ......... 303
Reedley ...... .... .. 304
Azusa . . . ... ....... 305
Ashlar . .... . ....... 306
Santa Monka .... .. 307
Monrovia. .... .... .. 308
Delano ........... .. J09
Sisson .... ...... .... 310
I,os Banos . . ....... . 312
Tehachapi . • ' .. ..... 313
< ..

,

General
Fund.
43.30

397.40
153.80
37.00
430.30
69.20
45.90
73.40
100.00
655.60
153.00
80.80
51.30
27.00
101.30
87.00
53.30
83.80
42.10
'52.70
621.10
145.70
103.20
113.30
80.60
78.00
430.50
107.10
(>6.00
176.40
221.80
165.40
73.40
175.60
69.80
83.20
142,40
115.40
126.30
62.80
76.80
57.70
161.40

Home
Fund.
37.00
418.00
132.00
30.00
397.00
68.00
51.00
66.00
100.00
664.00
150.00
82.00
47.00
30.00
87.00
70.00
57.00
92.00
29.00
43.00
529.00
123.00
108.00
107.00
64.00
70.00
315.00
99.00
60.00
166.00
222.00
136.00
66.00
164.CO
52.00
78.00
\16.00
116.00
127.00
62.00
72.00
43.00
126.00

175
Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
32.75
80.30
35.CO
815.40
19.30
285.80
45.50
67.00
.25
827.30
1.25
137.20
19.75
96.90
29.75
139.40
21.50
200.00
1,319.60
20.75
303.00
23.75
162.80
47.75
98.30
40.00
57.00
12.50
198.30
23.75
157.00
21.00
110.30
31.50
185.80
71.10
5.25
95.70
... ..
1,150.10
4.50
268.70
211.20
2.00
220.30
21.25
144.60
39.00
148.00
12.50
745.50
52.00
206.10
37.25
126.00
33.25
342.40
4.25
443.80
2.75
301.40
24.50
139.40
339.60
19.00
21.75
121.80
1.50
161.20
3.75
258.40
.so
231.40
253.30
.75
124.80
16.50
54.00
148.80
26.75
100.70
11.25
287.40

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

General
Fund.
Temescal .......... 314
Norwalk ········· .. 315
Sang·er ············· 316
Fallbrook .......... 317
Emmanuel ·········· 318
Hollenbeck ........ 319 .
South Gate ........ 320
Alisa! .............. 321
Alhambra . ... .. ... . 322
Whittier .. '. . ... .... 323
Corona ............ 324
Consuelo ······ ····· 325
Needles ............ 326
Long Beach ........ 327
Redondo ··········· 328
Vallee de France ... 329
Kilauea ............ 330
Pacific Grove ...... 331
San Pedro ........ 332
Alta .... .. ·· ······· 333
Covino ............. 334
West Ga te ......... 335
Fruitvale ..... .. .... 336
Carquinez .......... 337
San Jacinto ........ 338
Fullerton ........... 339
Oxnard ············ 341
Manila ......... . ... 342
San Fernando ...... 343
Starr King ········ 344
Brentwood ......... 345
Palo Alto .......... 346
McKinley ... .... .. . 347
San Be.rnardino .... 348
Sequoia ............ 349
Cavite .... ········. 35(}
Palestine .... ····· .. 351
Sunset .............. 352
Pinole ............... 353
Presidio ............ 354
Hollywood ......... 355'
Mill Valley
356
Buena Park ........ 357

79.50
47.00
75.80
36.10
66.30
716.60
731.50
64.30
300.80
170.70
353.20
62.70
134.30
256.80
117.80
136.50
123.75
61.00
154.40
33.40
138.90
405.00
258.90
·85.20
80.70
147.ISO
166.00
324.50
95.70
281.60
75.70
212.80
186.20
236.30
413.40
74.25
279.80
394.00
79.90
284.60
240.30
162.60
51.20

Home
Fund.
85.00
50.00
82.00
29.00
57.00
614.00
655.00
57.00
222.00
163.00
328.00
63.00
107.00
252.00
112.00
95.00
145.00
60.00
146.00
36.00
131.00
380.00
181.00
88.00
83.00
134.00
160.00
274.00
73.00
234.00
63.00
182.00
158.00
217.00
336.00
71.00
252.00
290.00
81.00
234.00
207.00
144.00
48.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
164.50
3.25
97.00
1.00
157.80
22.25
65.10
7.50
123.30
38.75
1,330.ISO
1,386.50
121.30
33.50
531.80
.50
333.70
1.00
681.20
.so
125.70
12.50
241.30
29.50
508.80
.75
229.80
.75
231.50
268.75
121.00
30.50
300.40
.75
69.40
269.90
1.50
785.00
439.90
35.50
173.20
163.70
6.75
281.60
1.50
326.00
4.5(l
598.50
168.70
1.25
515.60
35.00
138.70
32.75
394.80
34.25
344.20
25.00
453,30
3.75
749.40
35.00
145.25
. ....
531.80
684.00
160.90
35.00
518.60
35.00
447.30
.10
306.60
35.50
99.20'
1.40

1:. 1ldcn

State ... : .. 358

l." 1aLton ........... 359

..

ti 111 Francisco ...... 360
I Ol't Bragg ......... 361
1'hnrlty. ............ 362
11. rkeley ........... 363
I >llvct .............. 364
\\' lllits ............. 365
1. .. Palm as . ....... 366
' iut'hi Pasadena .... 367
I nlty ............ .. 368
11. can Park ........ 369
\ mity ... : .......... 370
lheanic ............ 371
l;nr<lena ············ 372
\ "teran ............ 373
lewel .............. 374
ld chmond .......... 375
Francis Drake ...... 376
Artesia ..... ······· 377
Mizpah . .. ........ . :378
Fillmore . : ......... 379
I I11ntington Beach ... 380
()ccanside .......... 381
"I lighland Park .... 382
Orosi .............. 383
HI Centro .......... 384
Dinuba ............ 385
( ".irregidor ......... 386
('oJalinga ........... 387
l,arnassus .......... 388
l,alos Verdes ....... 389
Imperial ........... 390
East Belt . . . . . . . . . . . 391
West Lake ......... 392
Balder ............. 393
University .......... 394
Turlock ............ 395
Apollo ............. 396
Rising Light ....... 397
Fowler ............ 398
Fraternity .......... 399
12

General
Fund.
333.80
40.80
250.60
77.10
79.50
312.40
61.60
81.00
251.20
148.ISO
157.80
194.70
347.90
119.00
75.70
164.90
79.00
310.20.
78.10
84.ISO
405.20
71.10
48.90
32.10
296.60
43.00
107.00
68.80
146.50
186.10
239.10
82.20
71.80
40.40
503.70
176.60
149.30
75.60
120.10
64.50
19.10
175.80

Home
Fund.
302.00
42.00
194.00
79.00
65.00
286.00
54.00
70.00
208.00
144.00
133.00
173.00
271.00
120.00
63.00
141.00
80.00
238.00
59.00
64.00
338.00
59.00
41.00
29.00
254.00
40.00
80.00
62.00
98.00
129.00
179.00
68.00
62.00
36.00
373.00
144.00
117.00
54.00
99.00
55.00
19.00
122.00

177
Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
635.80
82.80
35.00
444.60
156.10
44.50
144.50
33.00
598.40
35.00
115.60
151.00
44.SO
459.20
292.ISO
.25
1.75
290.70
.75
367.70
618.90
35.00
239.00
138.70
.50
305.90
.50
159.00
35.00
548.20
35.00
137.10
35.00
.50
148.60
743.20
3.75
130.10
89.90
1.00
61.10
550.60
23.50
83.00
21.50
187.00
21.50
130.80
244.50
315.10
24.00
418.10
35.00
150.20
133.80
21.00
76.40
37.25
876.70
320.60
35.00
266.30
129.60
27.50
219.10
35.00
119.50
.25
38.10
22.00
297.80
33.25

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Burlingame .. .. ..... 400
Bay View ··· ···· ·· · 401
Brawley .... .. .... .. 402
Yerba Buena ..... . 403
Glendora . . ... .... . . .404
Mone ta ..... .... ... 405
Burbank .. .. ....... 406
La Mesa .. ... ...... 407
Sierra M'.adre .... .. 408
Honolulu .... .... . . 409
Charter .Rock .. ... , 410
Rerris ... ... .. ..... 411
Calexico . ... .. . .. ... 412
Waucoba ... . . . .. .. 413
Arlington .. . .... . .. 414
Silver Trowel ..... . 415
Lindsay . . . ... ...... 416
Clovis .. ... : .. .. .. .. 417
Elysian .. . .... . ... . 418
Upland ..... . . .. ... 419
Kerman ..... . ...... 420
Inglewood ... . .... .. 421
E agle Rock .. .. .... 422
Y-0rk ...... . . . . . ... U. D.
Exeter . .... .. .. . . . U.D.
Holtville . .. .. . ... . U.D.
Midway .... : . ... .. U.D.
Chino Valley . . .. . . U.D.
San Dimas . . . ... .. U. D.
Pittsburg ... .. . . .. . U. D.
McCloud . . . . . . .... U. D.
Alpha . ....... . .... U.D.
Hammonton ...... U.D.
Roseville .. .. . .. ... U.D.

General
Fund.
94.80
200.80
59.40
139.60
56.40
315.80

72.90
57.40
66.20
143.25
312.10
42.20
88.40
40.10
94.70
141.40
60.40
41.10
138.20
48.40
34.90
59.40
44.90
50.00
74.70
44.30
93.40
51.00
108.30
48.10
28.50
48.50
35.80
33.80

----

Home
Fund.
92.00
142.00
46.00
114.00
46.00
192.00
51.00
46.00
58.00
151.00
249.00
38.00
56.00
29.00
73.00
86.00
46.00
29.00
88.00
46.oo·
31.00
46.00
31.00
30.00
43.00
27.00'
36.00
30.00
47.00
29.00
25.00
37.00
22.00
32.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Allowed
Total. Rep'tives.
35.00
186.80
35.00
342.80
105.40
20.25
253.60
35.00
102.40
1.25
507.80
.70
123.90
103.40
12.50
124.20
.75
294.25
35.00
561.10
5.25
80.20
22.25
144.40
69.10
30.00
167.70
227.40
106.40
20.00
70.10
23.CO
226.20
. 2.50
94.40
65.90
23.50
105.40
.25
75.90
.25
80.00
117.70
20.25"
71.30
23.00
129.40
20.50
81.00
2.50
155.30
1.75
33.00
77.10
53.50
51.50
85.30
34:50
57.80
45.50
35.50
65.80

.so

$52,851.10 $48,315.00 $101,166.10 $8,840.40

Respectfully submitted,
E. M. BIJ.l.INGS,
L. N. BUTTNER,
Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.

179

Brother Goldaracena, Chairman of the Committee on
l~inanoee, presented two reports, as follows:

/,. the M.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Finance Committee offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:

Reso!z.ed, ·111at our M.'. W .'. Grand Master, Alonzo J. Monroe, be
1· ~quested to sit for his portrait done in oil, and th,a t, when finished, the

V.'. W.'. Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed and placed ·
In the office of the Grand Secretary.
Your Finance Committee has had under consideration the Resolution
r~ferred to it asking that the sum of $15,000.00 be appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of subscribing for stock
in the Masonic Temple Association of California, and are of the
opinion that this Grand Lodge should subscribe for said amount of
stock in addition to that which it now has.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
11doption:
R esolved, That this Grand Lodge subscribe for 1,500 shares of the
capital stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California (par
value $10.00 each share) , in addition to the stock of said Association
already subscribed for; · provided, however, that the payment for said
stock shall not be made nor demanded until the completion of the
Masonic Temple to be erected by said Masonic Temple Association of
California .
Respectfully submitted,
0 . M. GoJ.DARAO:NA,
RAJ.PH Low!!,
E . B. SPt:NCER,
D. B. CRAN!!,
WM. A. SHt:RMAN.

Both reports were adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 1 :45 o'clock
this afternoon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Afternoon Se.s·sion.
Thursday, October 10, A. L. 5912.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :45 o'clock, the
Grand Mast·e r presiding.
M.". W.". James A. Foshay in a finis.bed, scholarly address, delivered to the pleasure and instruction and uplifting of his Brethren the annual oration, as follows:
M:. w:. Grand Master, Wardens and Brethreti of the Grand Lodge:
T:his has been a year of astounding prosperity. The Great Author
of nature, the Grand Master of the universe as well as of our5elves, has
dealt with us ri'chly and bountifully. It .has been a yea.r of wonderful
development in all the sciences and in all that goes to make up the sum
· total of happiness; and to prepare humanity for the great achievements
to come.
We are pleased to have this session of the Grand Lodge in our
sunny southland, where nature so lavishly bestows upon us ·everything
for our comfort and happiness. You are welcome to our hearts, to our
homes. May your coming bring to you no less of pleasure than to us

~~~~
.
.
This afternoon I would be to you a Spencer, of far-reaching phi·
losophy, and a Xenophon, intensely practical, but my wish, I know, is
vain,"I am no orator as Brutus is,
For I have neither wit nor words nor worth,
Action nor utterance nor the power of speech,
To stir men's blood."
Yet I am proud to occupy this station, so greatly honored by men who
have held it before me, and who have left to us a rich inheritance of
wisdom and of grace.
'!'EMPLE AND CHARAC'I'E:R BUILDING.

We rea.d in the Holy Writings that it was decreed in the wisdom ·
and counsels of Deity aforetime that a house should be built, erected
to God and dedicated to His holy name. "And Solomon selected 70,000
men to bear burdens, and 80,000 men to hew in the mountains, and
3,300 men to oversee them." This vast army of workmen of more than

181

153,000 was divided into companies, a.s best fitted their special qualifications. "And Solomon sent to Hiram, King of Tyre, saying, 'Send me
now, therefore, a man cunning to work in gold and in silver, and in
brass and in iron, and in purple and crimson and blue. Send me also
cedar trees and fir trees and algum trees out of Lebanon.' Then the
King of Tyre sent a cunning man; and cut the wood out of Lebanon,
which was brought in floats by sea to Joppa.'' This account marks the
beginning of a great structure, at a time held by many as -t he date of
the beginning cif what is now known as the Order of Free and
Accepted Masons.
This structure, perhaps the most wonderful in the world's history,
was known as King Solomon's Temple, and to it Masons have turned
for many ages for examples in operativ·e masonry. We are told that
the stones were hewn, squared, marked, and numbered in the quarries;
that the trees were felled and prepared in the foriests, and ihat the work
was so carefully planned by the architects and builders that the building was put together without sound of axe; hammer or any tool of iron.
What a wonderful description is this of silent yet marvelous workings
with most stupendous results, yet without nois.e or confusion I
The material was so carefully planned and finished that every part
fitted into its place with exact nicety. The material of which Masonry
is composed should be selected and prepared as carefully. As the Temple was a wonderful scientific and mechanical structure, such should be
in the moral world the body of the teachings of the institution of
Masonry, whose tenets have been transmitted through the ages, and
which for ages shall continue to endure. The wisdom which brought
into being our great fraternity is beyond our power to fathom, and
may we not believe that the Great Architect of the Universe ever has
had in mind the welfare and best interests of Masonry? The same
wisdom which designed our moral and spiritual edifice will maintain
it to bless mankind.
Masonry always has been synonymous with building. It is true
righteousness built into character, which is the grandest and best of
structures. The work of the initiate is that of a builder-he is building
a great temple of human character. It does not have to deal with bad
men and endeavor to make such good, for they are supposed to be good
at the beginning, but it makes good men better.
In art and symmetry, the Temple was a triumph of the human
mind. It stood unrivaled, an inspiration to every beholder. So must ·
the spiritual temple stand in its moral beauty and adornment as the
mystic creation of Him whom we all delight to serve.
In selecting material for our Spiritual Temple we must see that •
we are not misled by title, position, wealth or profession. We must .demand something higher, nobler and better than these. A man to fill a

183

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

place in the Temple of Masonry should be intelligent, that he may
understand its teachings; he should be iwcial and fraternal, that he
may enjoy the companionship of his brethren; he should be unselfish,
that he may practise charity; he should be scrupulously honest; he
should be broad-minded, ready to appreciate the deep lessons taught in
the several degrees. Perhaps one of the greatest deficiencies in the material from which we build the moral, Masonic edifice is ignorance of
the high moral ground which should be occupied by every Mason.
Craftsmen must be able not only to read the designs on the trestle
board but they must be able to carry them into effect. They must
have 'the efficient knowledge before they·can attempt to teach it to
others.
The first lesson taught in Masonry is "To be good and true,'' and
this fundamental principle is emphasized in every stage of the progress
of the initiate, It is the foundation upon which Masonry is established,
and upon which its stability and perpetuity depend. In Masonry is no
place for contention, but always there is room for emulation among
"who best can work and best agree"; where a· mild and beautiful influence for good reaches out into the world and betters all mankind, hy
making all nations purer and all life sweeter.
The building of King Solomon's Temple is emblemaitic of the formation of character. Man's character is being formed daily and hourly;
silently, unobserved by himself and others, yet surely. Much of this
silent upbuilding takes place in the home, where the child from infancy receives the shaping that determines his character and makes him
the true man. Th.en there is ·t he silent influence of the school, marvelous in its effects. There is the bible school and the church, influences
woven and interwoven until at last the beautiful Temple of Manhood
comes into existence, and the man so formed in silence becomes a
tower of strength in the world, and in his world-the community in
which he lives.
It is the duty of the Master Mason to see that the first impressions
of the entered apprentice are correct; that he is admonished to act
honorably and decently, to deal honestly by, and justly with, all mankind. Yet notwithstanding these admonitions, Masons may find competition similar in the lodge to that found in the general business world.
Masonry cannot be properly understood or appreciated without
necessary proficiency in the degrees as the candidate advances, and
this should involve knowledge of more than the Ritual; it should include the divine .truths and precepts of Masonry, its history and the
purposes for which it was instituted and has been maintained for all
t~se centuries. Intimately connected with the different branches of
equipment should be the provision of a Masonic library, where the

Muson can ha.ve opportunity to ·e nlarge his m~ntal culture and secure
the knowledge necessary for advancement and accomplishment.
We live in a jurisdiction whose outlook for the future is very
bright. With the completion of the Panama Cana~ bringing to us a
muss of foreigners who must be made true American citizens, and with
the peace policies of President Taft influencing our line of thought, a
1reat commercial growth necessarily wilt' come to this State. It should
be guided by those who fully realize that a national growth must be
founded upon morality, and they themselves should be willing to render
the services of citizenship.
In_ the ea.rly history of our country, conditions were different;
cities and great corporations and the fierce competition which has
tmnsformed commerce into industrial warfare, were unknown. Now,
one of the greatest questions before us is, How shall we care for the
hundreds of thousands-aye, millions of people who come to ?ur
8 hores from foreign lands? In many cases these people know nothmg
>£ obedience to authority, are not considerate of new conditions; and
it is the silent influence which must aid in giving to them a training
in true American citizenship. There must be developed in ·them something more than a proper sense of responsibility and .obedience t?. authority-an esprit de corps of the highest order, which shall m1htate
for civic righteousness and moral culture.
If we are to meet the demands of California, our responsibilities are
stupendous. There must be a unification of all moral forces to counternct the movement of evil in our country. Our Order has helped to
produce many great men, who have done their part and left their inspiration to those who are now on the scene of action. Let it be known
to all forever · that Masonry stands for the development of the individuai. of his' integrity and personal worth, and that it will meet its
responsibilities to the full.
As the wonderful temple was reared silently but systematically,
nnd when it was. perfect in its completeness was dedicated to the w.orship of God, so Masonry at that time, while operative, was symbohcal
nlso; and the lessons from the trowel, the square and the compass a.re
that we shall build into character that which is for the highest, noblest
and best.
While it is not ours to visit the forests where those timbers Wl.l'e
hewn and marked nor the quarries where the stones were squared and
numbered nor ca~ we explore the regions about Mt. Moriah, or the
site of th~ great Temple itself, yet we may visit the places where t.he
living material is being prepared for our moral, Masonic edifice, and
fully realize how our characters must be formed that we. may ?ec~me
perfect pilasters and columns in our .time-honored ~~d m1g~ty mstlt~­
tion. C.haracter is higher than intellect, but the trammg of mtellect m

182

,

184

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the lodge room greatly helps toward the formation of character. In
the building of character, let us take care to see that material and
workmanship are of· the best,-

In harmony with the laws of nature, and the moral environment which

"In the elder days of Art
Builders wrought with greatest care
Each minute and unseen part;
For the gods see everywhere."
It is our duty ·to take the rough ashlar-the entered apprentice~to
note his possibilities and capabilities, and to assist him quietly and steadily to overcome self, to govern his appetites and passions, to realize that
he is a moral being, fit to attain his highest ambitions if he obey the
dictates of his better conscience, and thus to become an exemplar of ·
one of the greatest of institutions, whose noble influences and noble
deeds have merited the admiration of .the world.
It is our duty to teach carefully the seeker after truth as he passes
through the several stages and receives the degrees, and to unfold to
him the deep, underlying principles and truths of Masonry. We must
not think that the work is accomplished when a member receives his
full initiation, but we should assist in training him toward the highest
ideals which it is our privilege to have. It is the silent force which
makes for good citizenship and leads man to fulfil his highest and best
mission. If our work does not make the brother stronger and better,
and more fully prepare him to face the world, we have failed.
All men look forward to a ripe old age, in full possession of their
powers. We are admonished to be temperate and properly to care for ·
our bodies- to be temperate in eating and drinking, in work and
recreation, but more especially to avoid strong drink. The great literary
master says :
"Though I look old, yet am I strong and lusty,
For in my youth I never did apply
Hot and rebellious liquors in my blood;
Nor did not with unabashed forehead woo
The means of weakness and debility;
Therefore my age is as a lusty winter,
Frosty but kindly."
Masonry makes for character by precept and example. Each
Mason should build in himself a temple of imperishable character by
living the lessons that are taught in the lodge room. As the entered
apprentice is placed in the northeast corner of the lodge ready to begin
his work of preparation, so in life should he be placed in a moral environment, under the teachings of the Holy Bible and the guidance of
divine leadership, and so s'hould his character be formed. By working

1urrounds him, a Mason grows into a true, upright, moral man, and
fulfils his duty to be a strong, living force, and to exert a power for
1ood in the world.
Think, if you please, of the silent influences which are woven into
the characters of men through music, decorative art, beautiful archi·
lecture-all silently working together to make true men. The standard
»f beauty and truth set for us in the Holy Writings inspires the beautiful works and s~blime melodies of the musician, and we are lifted
out of ourselves in the comprehension of the beautiful symphonies and
oratorios of the great masters.
In the cities of the Old World civic administrators realize the necessity of positive ·t raining in morality and the rights and duties of'
citizenship. These can be taught to some degree in the schools and
colleges, but the teaching must be forwarded in such organizations and
societies as our own. The emphasis placed upon such teachings by
this fraternity compares, in some instances, to the zeal shown in parts
of the world by religious enthusiasts. Men who are leaders are beginning so to vitalize the subject of moral growth and training that
the people receive inspiration, and are assisted to grow into true manhood. Formal instruction in ethics and mora.!ity, URless vitalized and
humanized, is of little value; we must see to it that this vitalizing and
humanizing is a part of our accomplishment.
In some of the countries of the Old World, especially in England,
France and Germany, associations of men of wealt'h and education are
devoting themselves to the unfolding of the deep mysteries of Masonry.
It matters little, however, what further revelation the future may have
in store, for we already well know the fundamental truths, the strength
and support of Masonry, the foundation upon which stands the everlasting Temple.
We are unable to trace the descent of our Order from the original
temples of Egypt, Asia, and Europe, but we can safely assume that
Masonic- teachings, as given us today, are perpetuated in symbols and
characters which have been recorded from time immemorial. The
great Masonic library in the Temple of the Supreme Council of the
Southern Jurisdiction of Scottish Rite Masons, with more than 10,000
volumes on Masonic subjects and history, gives to us some idea of
the immense amount of labor and thought which have been devoted
by men of education, culture, and refinement to the production of
Masonic literature. Books, though silent, speak with the tongues of
~en and the learning of the great philosophers. We are permitted to
enjoy the society of the brilliant intellects of other ages, and to profit
by the results of their labors. ·

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In the formation of character, much depends upon the influence of
environment. It, therefore, is the duty of intelligent, moral men to
assist in making Masonic environment for the community such, that it
shall fill this ideal purpose.
. Soci:ty exists because men always have realized that security comes
from union, and that each must give to the collective body something
from himself as an individual. The silent influences of our temple
should so enforce this principle that our citizenship shall rise high and
higher in the moral, social, and intellectual scale. Macaulay said
"Logicians may reason about abstractions, but the great mass of me~
must have images." Then let us see that every stimulus to the imagination shall serve the highest purpose.
One reason why the general tone of our citizenship is not higher is
because our people have not seriously attempted the proper training of
our young men, so that they may enter upon life with clean bodies and
clean minds. We well may look back to take lessons from Sparta,
Athens and Rome, and accept from them the ideals which they held in
regard to their young men.
Ian MacLaren, in his "Young Barbarians," gives this prayer:
"Lord, keep the laddies before Thee from cheating, lying and cowardice-which are of the devil. Be pleased to put common sense in
their heads and Thy fear in their hearts, and give them to be honest all
the days of their lives.;' This well may be adopted as the prayer of
our active men, because it sums up much of the teachings which have
come to us through Masonry.
1_1asonry represents altruism and Qptimism; its philosophy and
teachings cause us to see with prophetic eye into the future. But we
are living in a world of commercialism, of chance and change of materialism and utilita.rianism, and because of this we should emphasize the
finer teachings of this institution, and point our young men to their
opportunities of forwarding in quiet and helpfulness the work of our
society. Masonry should be synonymous with civic righteousness and
good citizenship. When lessons are taught and charges given, let
them ever carry with them the great import which the authors ·intended.
Our nation, our government, our social fabric depend in a very
large degree upon the protection and chastity of women. We, as
Masons, ever should stand ready to protect our wives, sisters and
daughters, and we should go. farther and defend woman because she
is a woman. To be honest in this we must maintain that purity of life
ourselves that will commend us to our brethren and to the community
in which we live.
·
. Mason;y should offer aid and leadership to the study of the questions of sex education and sex hygiene now engaging the attention

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

187

not only of the people in general, but of the schools as well; a study
that I believe is destined to revolutionize conditions and make for man's
future welfare and happiness.
Prostitution is not only seriously affecting men in the lower scale
of life-those we term wicked-but it is contaminating innocent people
as well, by causing paralysis, deformed children, insanity and mental
decay. It is time that we, as intelligent, stalwart, moral men should
lend support in some way to fhis movement to prevent moral and
physical degeneration. Statistics show that syphilis and gonorrhea, two
great venereal evils, are responsible for the threatening decay of our
people, while according to the statement of Dr. Morrow, of New York,
"Social tradition holds that it is a greater violation of conventional propriety publicly to mention this infection (gonorrhea) than privately to
contract it and carry it home to the family.''
I have seen the statement that the greatest contributing factor to
the social evil is men, and while we are spending large sums on rescue
homes, or endea.voring to check the vices by bringing the girls into
juvenile courts, we seem to lose sight of the fact that the remedy of
this great evil lies with men. By dealing with men and not with
women, we can settle this great problem.
Man must b.e true. His duty to his friends, his family, himself and
his God demands that he keep his body clean and pure. The call is to
right living, the formation of true character, and all should be enabled
to say,"My strength is as the strength of ten
Because my heart is pure."
We shall reach the high moral plane which is just before us because
it is our ideal and our inheritance. The members of our great fraternity, that grand army of noble men, should stand by its counsels and
reflect its teachings in their deportment and conversation-to extend the
true fraternal spirit and to be honest in their dealings.
It means much to a young Mason when he realizes that the officers
and leaders of his lodge stand well in the community; tha.t they are
men who can be trusted; that they do not lie and cheat; and that no
charge of chicanery, graft, or mismanagement is ever laid at their
doors. If young Masons find that those whom they are supposed to
obey as their leaders are not honest and do not exemplify true courtesy
and right living, they are likely to become cynical and skeptical regarding our loved so~iety. Let us, as men and Masons, ever be jealous of
the good name and seek to promote the best interests of Ma.sonry.
Where devotion to its ideals exists, Masonry greatly promotes true
moral character. One of its lessons that we must learn is to commit

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ourselves to the ends of benevolence, not in impulsive acts or spasmodic displays of generosity, but in those which come from the growth
which generous impulses build into true manhood. The great work of
our institution is to train its members towa.rd the ends of benevolence.
For there is much of selfis'hness jn the world, encouraged by our·
general acceptance of the competitive idea in our efforts for achievement. The spirit of mankind seems to favor the tearing down of one
to build up another; but we as Masons should say to the community
by our actions that we believe in a nobler policy, in seeking to elevate
the whole body of our people, and in helping to make them all useful
citizens. How much harm has beert done in the world because of selfish
ambition! Let us help to develop that type of man who will not prey
upon his fellows for his own advanta.ge. What is needed today, in and
out of Masonry, is a vision of a spiritual ideal and strength for the
accomplishment of great things in the moral world. History shows
us that whenever moral ideals are not emphasized civilization suffe~s,
and while we ponder the maxims of philosophers and psychologists let
us not forget that the highest text book of ethics is the Great Book
which ever is open on the altar when a Masonic lodge is in session. Le;
co-operation take the pla.ce of competition, and let all work together for
that which is highest, noblest and best: We, as a nation, must build
for a stronger race of men, physically, morally and intellectually, but
above all we must establish cha.racter, the result of education and train~
jng, as the foundation of our Temple.
The ever-increasing complexity of our economic conditions, and
the race to get rich, makes it more and more difficult for thinking .
men, who realize the necessity, to build for the future that which shall
a~sist in creating a mora.l environment and in emphasizing the principles of right living, so that the integrity and prosperity of our country may be properly safeguarded. The influence of the love of money
has reached those who have been honored with positions of confidence
and power, and even in these days of prosperity, in practically all parts
of the world, it t'hreatens to destroy our civil liberty and undermine our
institutions. It seems to push aside our higher, purer and better
motives. But, brethren, let u~ see to it that there shall be 352 altars in
this jurisdiction alone, and more in the coming years, from which
brotherly love, relief and truth shall be exalted far above the love
of money.
We all seem bent on becoming rich, not realizing that wealth of
itself, has no moral or intellectual value or uplifting influence: I~ is
beneficial to. ~s only as it serves high ideals and noble purposes, as it·
makes conditions better for the individual and for society. If used to
improve physical conditions and the general environment of our people

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

In State and Nation, the possession of it should be encouraged, otherwise not. When it is use<i to lift up the fallen, and to bring all mankind into one vast fraternity, then it shows us that there is
"One God, one law, one element,
One far-off, divine event
IJ'o which the whole creation moves."
The tongue is an vnruly member, often used in repeating that
which is derogatory to the good name of a brother or a fellow man.
We must not be content simply to confer degrees, to permit men to go
out with no teaching except that which they receive when the degrees
are conferred. They must be taught the true, deep, underlying principles of Masonry. We must emphasize the cultivation of self-control in
our members, so that each one ma.y have an independence and individuality of character that will never accept for himself false or arbitrary
standards.
As our institution has hitherto flourished because of the results it
has brought about in promoting the general good of mankind, so should
we of today continue to share with the world that light which we receive
in the lodge room. A Master Mason should be thoroughly impressed
.
with the responsibility of high station and deep knowledge.
Masonry often has been misunderstood and misrepi::esented because
it has been confused with religion. It is religious in its teachings, but
does not profess to be a religion. It never has claimed to be a religion,
and it is very unfortunate that occasionally a Mason says, "It is a good
enough religion for me." Religion has been defined as "a belief binding
the spiritual nature of man to a Supernatural Being upon whom he is
conscious he is dependent, and the practice and duties growing out
of such belief." The Christian church, in general, sustains a very
friendly attitude toward Masonry. Masonry in no way assumes the
functions or takes the place of the church, and none of its ceremonies
suggests the supplanting of any of the sacraments of the church. The
church is waging a great battle against all sorts of dishonesty, wrong, injustice, and infidelity, and so is Masonry. The quiet, steady, active
influences of Masonry are needed to aid the church and assist in fighting
wrong-doing and in building up character. The church and Masonry
are doing parallel work. They are as the rails of the railway, running
side by side; they bridge the same rivers. and chasms; they tunnel the
same rugged mount;iins ; they extend side by side across .the broad
plains; they ascend t'he same heights; and at last may they together
enter the beautiful city that hath foundations and whose Maker and
Builder is God.
God ever has revealed Himself more powerfully and clearly through
the symbols of natur.e than through the works of man. With us con-

190

GRAND LODGE 01" CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

stantly are the examples of the wonderful works of God-our own
world, with its myriads of stars, its golden clouds, its beautiful flora
and interesting fauna, its magnificent mountains and delightful valleysthese numberless wonders speak to us silently, emphatically and reverently of Him who hold~ all things in His care and keeping.
The improvement of character, the systematic fraternal work, the
promotion of virtue, all should be results of Masonry. The invisible ·
part of Masonry is the spirit which animates and pervades the lodge
rooms, in manifestation of the vital, active principles that have been
emphasized through the ages. Let us realize that the ritualistic work,
the forms, ceremonies, signs and lectures, the visible part of Masonry,
are simply for the purpose of teaching and developing these very principles, that secret of vitality and power that has made Masonry what
it is through all the generations past, and shall maintain it for generations to come.
We are proud of our country and of the patriotism of our people,
but let us not forget that the highest patriotism is that men shall live
for their country as well as die for it. It is the daily living of a devoted
life that makes the patriot and the hero. We, as men, must cherish high
ideals, believe in them, and act them. As King Solomon first dreamed
of his wonderful temple and afterward builr it, so should we dream of
that which is morally elevating and spiritually uplifting, and then build
it into our noble Masonic edifice.
We are in.the midst of an unexampled political campaign. We are
hearing daily conflicting statements as to the conditions of our country,
its finances and its outlook. Orators draw us first one way and then
another. Each party endeavors to show that whatever it does is i:ight,
and whatever its opponents do is wrong. There necessarily is confusion in the affairs of the outside world because of the conflict of convictions. But if we follow our God-given model, the Temple, in building the character of ourselves and our fraternity, there can be no differences of opinion among us, for the standard set in the building of
the great Temple, the standard which should be our own, is the perfect
standard set by Him who sees and understands all conditions, to whom
is no possipility of error or of wrong.
"The crest and crowning of .all good,
Life's final star, is brotherhood;
For it will bring again to earth
Her long-lost poesy and mirth,
Will send new light on every face,
A kingly power upon the race;
And, till it comes, we men a.re slaves,
And travel downward to the dust of graves.

191

Come, clear the way, then; clear the way,
Blind creeds and kings have had their day;
Break the dead branches from the pathOur hope is in the aftermatbOur hope is in heroic men,
Star-led to build the world again.
To this event the ages ran ;
Make way for Brotherhood-make way for Man."
Brethren, let us as individuals awaken to the consciousness of our
11 1ponsibilities, the possibilities and glorious opportunities for the build-

tnll' and development of true, moral character,

( )n motion, the thanks of Grand Lodge were tendered
to M .". \ V . ·. Brother Foshay for his splendid effort, and the
<.rand Secretary was instructed to "cause the address to be
printed in pamphlet form for distribution to the Lodges.
Brother Curtis J. Monroe, Chairman of the Committee
Credentials, reported the following Officers and Repre!lentatives of charter·ed Lodges, Delegates from Lodges under dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this
Jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz:
From

l lll

('alifornia .. ... .. . No.

Wcstern Star ..... No.
Tehama . .. ...... No.

Tuolumne .. ..... No.
Corinthian ...... . No.
San J ose .. . ... ... No.

1.. Harvey L. Ma rvin, Master;
H. Ascroft, Past Master;
F . V. Keesling, Past Master ;
H . M. Owens, Past Master.
2 . . Alex. Patterson, Master & Past Master.
3 . . Henry A. W . Lindgreen, Master ;
Louis R. Plate, Senior Warden;
W . H. Davis, Past Master;
T . J. Milliken, Past Master ;
J . E. Thompson, Past Master.
8 .. Chas. H. Segerstrom, Master.
9 .. Chester A. Hedges, Master. .
10 .. Sanford L . Bacon, Senior Warden ;
J. P. Jarman, Inspector;
R. Lowe, Past Master ;
J . H. McGehee, Past Master.

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Yount ........... No. 12 .. John A. Pederson, Master;
C~ E. Trower, Inspector..
Nevada .......... No. 13 .. Daniel A. Dailey, Master;
F. L. Arbogast, Inspector;
W. E. Meservey, Past Master.
Temple ... ....... No. 14 .• James F. Tate, Master.
Eureka .......... No. 16 .• Arthur S. Fleming, Master ;
_
·Louis F. Klumpp, Senior Warden;
H. Disque, Past Master;
M. D. Lininger, Inspector.
La Parfaite Union No. 17 . . Pierre Pommier, Master;
A. L. Auradou, Past Master;
0. M. Goldaracena, Inspector;
A. Huguenin, Past Master;
T. Sehabiaque, Past Master.
Mountain Shade .. No. 18 .• Th:omas E. Winrod, Master;
E. L. Case, Inspector.
San Joaquin ...... No. 19 .. Jqy D. Campbell, Master.
Washington ...... No. 20 . •John G. Labadie, Master.
Hawaiian ..... ... No. 21 .. J. D. Tucker, Representative & Inspector.
Occidental ....... No. 22 .. Oroville C. Baldwin, Master;
Arthur H. Halloran, Senior Warden;
E. C. Landis, Past Master.
Madison .... ..... No. 23 .. William ]. Peters, Junior W ~rden.
Mariposa . . . . . ... No. 24 .. James P. McElligott, Master;
· L. A. C. H. KyIberg, Inspector.
Georgetown . ..... No. 25 .. I. G. Swift, Representative & Past Mast~r.
Palmyra ...... .... No. 26 .• Albert Simon, Master;
L. A. Reeg, Inspector.
Golden Gate ..... No. 30 .. August F. Heuer, Master;
Paul R. Bjick, Senior Warden;
W. S. M6ses, Past Master.
Gold Hill . ... ..... No. 32 .• James E. Wyatt, Maste·r & Past Master.
Ophir .. . ....... .. No. 33 .. Frank W. Fisk, Master.
,San Diego ........ No. 35 .• Egbert C. Bangs, Master;
W. Kettner, Past Master;
E. ]. Louis, Past Master;
]. B. Osborn, Inspector;
F. A. Schneider, Past Master;
]. G. Shaw, Past Master.
St. John's .... . ... No. 37 .• Alfred C. Abshire, Miaster & Past Master.
~

193

Cruz ....... No. 38 .. Percy A. Izant, Master;
E. S. West, Past Master.
\ ubn ... ......... No. 39 .. William C. Swezy, Master;
E. E. Stone, Past Master.
' 1c rnmento ...... No. 40 .. William E. Appleton, Master:
F. J. Bidwell, Past Master.
\I 1rtinez ......... No. 41. .William R. Sharkey, Junior Warden;
L. N. Buttner, Inspector;
W. S. Wells, Past Master.
I .. Angeles ...... No. 42 .• George W. Yarrow, Master;
Carl P. Smith, Senior Warden;
S. Cahen, Past Master ;
M. H. Goldsten, Past Master ;
E. Hiner, Past Master ;
]. King, Past Master;
C. E. Mitchell, Past Master;
J. 0. Downing, P:ist Master.
"fount Moriah .... No. 44 . . Edmund Tauszky, Master.
Crescent ......... No. 45 .• Charles E. Chapman, Master.
Trxas ... ... ..... No. 46 .. T. Flint, Representative & Past Master.
lllinoistown ...... No. 51 .• Darius V. Norton, Master & Past Master.
~uisun ..... . .... No. 55 .. Gilbert R. Jones, Master.
Volcano ......... No. 56 .. John B. Grillo, Representative.
Santa Rosa ....... No. 57 •• Walter L. Whitaker, Master;
Charles E. Lee, Senior Warden;
C. D. Barnett, Past Master;
A. G. Burnett, Past Master;
J . T. Mailer, Past Master.
l nion ........... No. 58 .. Frank B. Kleinsorge, Senior Warden;
George L. Baxter, Junior Warden;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
J . F. Morgan, Inspector.
Plumas .. ... . . ... No. 60 .. John F. Spooner, Master.
Live Oak ......... No. 61. .A. F. Shulte, Past Master;
J. J. Warner, Representative & Past Master;
A. B. Webster, Inspector;
C. H. Wood, Past Master.
~eo. Washington .. No. 62 . . Wi!Ham J. Settree, Master..
Natoma .......... No. 64 .. H . C. J. R. Clemensen, Rep. & Past Master.
·\ mador ..... . ... No. 65 .• Carl W. Schacht, Master;
J. E. Dye, Inspector;
G. W. Lucot, Past Master.

·· ~ntn

13

194

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Forest ........... No. 66 .• Thomas J. Murray, Master.
Mornilig Star .... No. 68 .• Herbert H. Briggs, Senior Warden;
E. C. Stewart, Inspector.
Enterprise ....... No. 70 .• Leslie W. Walton, Master.
Bear Mountain ... No. 76 .• Albert C. Wilson, Mast·er;
Leonard L. Miartin, Senior Warden;
F. W. Clough, Inspector;
'T. H. Davey, Past Master.
Calaveras ........ No. 78 . • ]. Keith, Representative & Past Master.
Humboldt ....... No. 79 .• James T. Fraser, Master;
T. R. Dinsmore, Inspector;
A. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Ione ............ No. 80 .• John F. Martin, Master.
Yolo ............ No. 81. .Clyde F. Hayden, Master.
Vesper .......... No. 84 .• 0. C. Combs, Representative.
Naval ........... No. 87 .• William -McK. Hind, Master;
Charles W. Causbrook, Junior Warden.
Rose's Bar ....... No. 89 .. W. G. Robson, Rep. & Past Master.
North Star ....... No. 91 .. Horace V. Ley, Master and Past Master.
St. Helena ........ No. 93 .. T. W. Boalt, Past Master.
Henry Clay ...... N' o. 95 .. Virgil W. Norton, Master.
Howard ......... No. 96 .. Ernest V. Harmon, Junior Warden.
Jefferson ........ No. 97 .. G. May, Inspector & Representative.
Hornitos ........ No. 98 .. Huber S. Spahr, Master.
La Grange ...... No. 99 .-. C. Simon, Past Master.
Oroville ......... No. 103 .. Homer S. Toms, Master;
H. J. Graham, Inspector.
Lexington ....... No. 104 .. George H. Coffin, Master;
Whitcomb Hudson, Senio·r Warden;
Jonas E. Killian, Junior Warden;
W. R. Hudson, Past Master.
Arcata .......... No. 106 .• Moses Greenwald, Master & Past Master;
G. H. Burchard, Past Master.
Chico ............ No.111..John W. M. Kennedy, Master;
Leon W. Phillips, Senior Warden.
Summit ......... No. 112 .. Walter B. Willms, Junior Warden.
Eden ............ No. 113 .. Herbert L. Landis, Master.
Concord ......... No. 117 .. George F. Shepherd, Master.
Clinton .......... No. 119 .. Edward D. Jones. M~ster & Past Master.

•'

195

Fidelity .......... No. 120 .• Henry Levy, Master;
Joshua H. Bloom, Junior Warden;
A. M. Armer, Past Master;
J. Nieto, Past Master.
Alamo ........... No. 122 .. Theo. H. Hook, Master.
Sotoyome ........ No. 123 .• Harvey C. Frost, Master;
E. Rush, Inspector.
Table Mountain .. No. 124 .. Henry F. Bader, Master & Past Master.
r.a Fayette ........ No·. 126 .. Geo. H. Corbin, Representative.
I iermann ........ No. 127 .. Fred'k W. Wolters, Master ;
R. de Clairmont, Past Master ;
F. Gercke, Past Master;
L. Mulle·r, Insp~ctor.
Vis<llia .......... No. 128 .. Darius E. Perkins, Master ;
S. Levy, Past Master.
Nicolaus ........ No. 129 .• William A. Stull, Master;
Henry H. Huffaker, Senior Warden.
Woodbridge ..... No. 131. .A. A. McClelland, Rep. & Past Master.
Yosemite ........ No. 133 .. Edwin H. Schell, Repres.entative.
Vacaville ........ No. 134 .. Wiley S. Killingsworth, Master;
S. P. Dobbins, Inspector.
Valley .......... No.135 .. David Board, Representative.
Pacific .......... No. 136 .. Robert W. Madden, Master;
I. J. Aschheim, Past Master;
E. S. Isaacs, Past Master;
G. M. p,erine, Past Master;
A. W. Turpin, Past Master.
Crockett ......... No. 139 .. George H. Moulton, Master;
Hugh McBirney, Senior Warden;
Hugh J. Lloyd, Junior Warden;
J. B. Roberts, Past Master;
T. Rowlands, Past Master.
Curtis ........... No. 140 .. George Weston, Master.
Franklin ........ No. 143 .. Elbert M. Kercheval, Master;
P. B. Green, Past Master;
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master.
Oriental ......... No. 144 .. Olin L. Berry, Master;
Georg·e B. Blake, Junior Warden.
Vitruvius ........ No. 145 .. Oscar Collister, Junior Warden & P. M.
Abell ............ No.146 .. William Bromley, Master.
Eel Riv·er ........ No.147 .. William J. Norwood, Master.

"PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lassen .... . ..... No.149 .• John S. Barrette, Master.
Molino .......... No.150 .. George B. Champlain, Master.
Woodland .. . .... No.156 .. Thomas G. Hughes, Master;
H. H. Gable, Inspector.
Harmony ........ No. 164 . . William A. Lavery, Master & Past Master.
Excelsior . ........ No. 166 .. Howard D; Noble, Master;
C. A. Adams, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Inspector ;
H. J. Owen, Past Master.
Alameda ......... No. 167 .. Eugene N. Babb, Senior Warden.
Redwood City .... No. 168 .. Richard F. Chilcott, Master;
C. G. Landscheit, In.spector.
Mission ......... No. 169 .. R. E. Allan, Representative & Past Master.
Elk Grove.:.... .. No.173 .. Aubrey M. Leavitt, Senior Warden.
Drytown ........ No. 174 . . C. Wilson, Representative & Past Master.
Antioch . .. ...... . No. 175 . . Otto E. Klengel, Senior Warden & P. M.
Phoenix . ... .... . No. 178 .. Walter B. Howes, Master;
J. W. Barton, Past Master;
J. A. Gibson, Past Master;
M. J. Newburg, Past Master.
Mendocino ...... No. 179 .. Gustaf H. Swanson, Master;
F. Halling, Past Master;
R. Moore, Inspector.
Petaluma .. . ..... No. 180 .. J. A. Olmsted, Rep. & Past Master.
Russian River .... No.181..Wm. H. Calhoun, Senior Warden.
Meridian . . ...... No.182 . . Edgar K. Ward, Master & Past Master.
Claiborne ........ No. 185 . . Samuel C. Hunter, Master.
Evening Star .. .' .. No. 186 .. M. Marx, Representative & Past Master.
Keith .. .. . ....... No.187 . . Fred'k H . Sebire, Master & Past Master;
J. R. Zuck, Past Master.
Oakland . . ... .... No.188 .. Harry T. Moore, Junior Warden.
Northern Light . . . No. 190 . . Henry H. Butzbach, Master.
Marin ........... No. 191 .. Raymond I. Shaver, Master ;
F. M. Angellotti, Past Master;
Geo. F. Rodden, Inspector.
Santa Barbara .. .. No. 192 .. David H . Schauer, Master;
Harry W. Beatty, Senior Warden;
E. 0. Farnum, Past Master.
Ferndale ........ No.193 .. Arthur W. Blackburn, Master.

Mountain View ... No. 194 .. Arthur J. Zschokke, Master & Past Master;
0. C. Morgan, Past Master.
Buckeye ......... No. 195 .. William A. Brinck, Master.
San Simeon ...... No. 196 .. Adolph Frankl, Master and Past Master;
A. Paterson, Past Master.
Wilmington .... . . No. 198 .. Robert J. Stewart, Master ;
William C. Fohl, Senior Ward en.
llartley .......... No.199 .. Jonathan D. Monroe, Master;
E. Howard, Past Master;
C. J. Monroe, Past Master;
M. S. Sayre, Inspector.
Silveyville . .... . . No. 201 . Aubrey A. Collier, Senior Warden.
l'entalpha ........ No. 202 .. Leander Levy, Master;
Robert F. Train, Senior Warden;
Isidore F. Whomes, Junior Warden;
C. W. Blake, Past Master;
J. A. Brewer, Past Master;
C. W. Blake, Past Master ;
J. S. Calkins, Past Master;
H . H . Clark, Past Master;
J. B. Gist, Past Master;
W. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master;
.c. I. Hinman, Past Master ;
J. A. Kingsley, Past Master;
H. H. Mayberry, Past Master;
J. H. Martin, Past Master;
W. P. M'usaus, Past Master;
W. W. Robinson, Past Master;
S. Selover, Past Master;
H. L. Thomas, Past Master.
Confidence .. . . .. . No. 203 . . Walter C. Tuttle, Master & Past Master.
Salinas .. .. ...... No. 204 .. Louis Schneider, Master and Past Master.
Newville . ..... .. No. 205 .. Ray F. Houghton, Master.
Stanislaus ....... No. 206 .. William H. Kirk, Master.
Anaheim ........ No. 207 .. William Falkenstein, Senior Warden.
Rio Vista< ........ No. 208 .. Jchn M. Talbert, Master & Past Master.
King David's .. ... No. 209 . Walter D. Adriance, Master & Past Master;
John Whicher, Past Master.
Friendship ...... . No. 210 .. George T. Lemon, Master.
San Benito ...... No. 211 . . A. D. McKinnon, Rep. and Past Master.
S. San Francisco .. No.212 .. A. F. Fitschen, Rep. and Past Master;
D. B. Todd, Past Master.

1S6

197

198

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Buenaventura.No. 214 .. Milton W. Philipps, Senior Warden;
D. J. Reese, Inspector.
Oak Grove ....... No. 215 .. Chester L. Robinson, Master.
Doric .. . ...... . .. No. 216 . . William B. Cameron, Master;
B. Levi, Past Master.
Monterey ........ No. 217 .. W. Kay, Repre&entative and Past Master.
Mosaic .......... No. 218 .. Wm. McDonald, Representative.
Speranza I taliana. No. 219., Ginotto Marioni, Master;
Ettore V. Lonigo, Senior Warden;
Clemente Peini, Junior Warden;
P. Righetti, Past Master;
G. Scalmanini, Inspector.
· Downey .. . ... . .. No. 220 . . John W. Rudd, Master;
D. Dwire, Past Master;
A. P. Henry, Past Master.
Inyo .... . .. .. . , .. No. 2"21:. William D. Dehy, Master.
Granite ...... . ....No. 222 . . Lyman 'it Barber, Master and Past Master.
Bakersfield .... . . No. 224 .. Benjamin B. 'Thomas, Master;
Daniel R. Woods, Junior Warden;
A. H. Swain, Past Master.
Brooklyn . . ...... No. 225. Charles H. Davies, Master;
G. E. Kelly, Past Master.
San Mateo .. ..... No.226 .. Kenneth M. Green, Senior Warden;
Howard M. Taylor, Junior Warden.
Athens ... . . . . , .. No. 2~ . . Albert Brady, Master;
B. B. Tuttle, Past Master.
Solano ........ . . No. 229 .. Andrew J. Whitney, Master;
Walter S. Pierce, Senior Warden;
Herbert F. Gordon, Junior Warden;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master;
J. F. Walters, Past Master;
J. E. Sanderson, Past Master.
North Butte .... No. 230. , Bernard Munter, Master;
C. · A. Moore, Past Master.
Covelo ... .. . .. . . No. 231 .. Emanuel Newberg, Representative.
Janesville ....... No. 232 . . John B. Christie, Master;
I. E. Bailey, Past Master;
S: H. Crow, Inspector.
Calistoga . . ... ... No. 233 .. John C. Wilson; Master ;
Archibald H. McArthur, Junior Warden;
E. M. Billings, Past Master.

Surprise Valley ... No.235 .. William E. Van Doren, Senior Warden.
Hill's Ferry ...... No. 236 .. Leland H. Parker, Master & Past Master.
Guadalupe ....... No. 237 .. Alfred Palmer, Master;
Francis J. McCoy, Senior Warden;
H. Campodonico, Pa.s t Master;
W. T. Lucas, Past Master.
Colusa ........... No.240 .. G. P. Ahlf, Representative and Past Master.
Santa Ana. , ...... No. 241. .Ralph W . Mead, Master;
H. Roy Andre, Senior Warden;
Prince L. Tople, Junior Warden;
]. P. Greeley, Past Master;
0. M. Robbins, Past Master;
J. W. Tower, Past Master;
E. B. Trago, Inspector ;
S. Hill, Past Master.
Magnolia ...•.... No. 242 .• William P . Butcher, Master & Past Master;
Frank A. Conant, Senior War. & Past Mas.
Eucalyptus .. . .... No. 243 .• J. McConaghy, Rep. and Past Master.
Alcatraz ......... No.244 .•John G. Sjoberg, Master;
H. A. Glines, Past Master;
J. P . Redington, Past Master.
Laurel .......... No. 245 .. Lucien M. Benoh, Senior Warden,
Pomona ......... No. 246 .• Charles R. Hutchings, Senior Warden;
Harry E. Russell, Junior Warden;
W. A. Lewis, Past Master;
]. A. Ludden, Past Master;
A. P. Nichols, Past Master;
W. A. Vandergrift, Inspector & Past Master;
Albert F. Snow, Past Master.
Fresno .... . ..... No.247 .. Thomas J. Hammond, Master;
Ben R. Walker, Senior Warden;
William J. Harris, Junior Warden;
G. E. Church, Past Master.
Alturas ........ . . No. 248 . , Reuel A. Laird, Master;
E. C. Bonner, Inspector.
Adin .. ... .... , .. No. 250 .. Claude R. Brown, Master.
Bodie ... . ........ No. 252 .. Harvey H. Boone, lnsp., S. War. & P. Mas.
Landmark .... .- .. No. 253 .. George R. Hurlburt, Master & ~ast Master.
Reading .......... No, 254 . . Rudolph A. Saeltzer, Master ';
H. G. Hill, Inspector;
C. E. Brown, Past Master.

199

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Welcome ........ No. 255 .. Richard E. Sh0re, Master & Past Master.
Lodi ... ." ........ No. 256 .. G. W. LeMoin, Rep. and Past Master;
C. W. Norton, Past Master.
Penrhyn ......... No. 258 .. Antone FevoeTa, Master & Past Master.
Evergreen ....... No.259 .. John G. Bayley, Master;
H. D. French, Inspector & Past Master;
G. H. Kelsey, Past Master.
King Solomon's .. No.260 .. E. E. Conn, Past Master;
W. P. Filmer, Past Master;
R. E. Hartley, Past Master ;
F. B. Wood, Representative & Past Master.
Tuscan .......... No. 261 .. H. H. Rathbun, Rep. and Past Master;
G. H. Simmons, Inspector.
Lompoc .·......... No. 262 .. H. Poland, Past Master;
W. R. Smith, Rep. and Past Master.
Hesperian ....... No. 264 .. Lee L. Lemon, Senior Warden;
A. A. Dud!,ey, Inspector;
. S. Fleisher, Past Master.
Orland .......... No. 265 .. W. Clark, Representative and Past Master.
North East ...... No. 266 .. Charles E. Leithead, Master & Past Master.
Galt ............. No. 267 .. Pardes H. Latourrette, Master & P. Mas.
Durant .......... No. 268 . . Gustave A. Griesdhe, Master;
George E. Oxley, Senior Warden.
Olive Branch ..... No.269 .. J. W. Davis, Representative & Past Master.
Snow Mountain .. No. 271 .• George T. McGahan, Master.
Pasadena ........ No. 272 .• Walter R. Gibbings, Master;
Earl W. Nay, Senior Warden;
Harold G. Simpson, Junior Warden.
Anchor .......... No. 273 .• Joseph H. Dimmler, Master; ·
John 0. Burris, Senior Warden;
Chas. W. Musselman, Junior Warden;
C. A. Dickinson, fast Master ;
H. J. Mayo, Past Master;
J. B. Norton, Past Master.
Arroyo .......... No.274 .. Charles S. Noble, Masrer & Past Master;
Robert L. Goodin, Senior Warden;
Arthur W. Hawkins, Junior Warden.
Oakdale ......... No. 275 .• Darcy E. Lee, Senior Warden;
Wright S. Boddy, Junior Warden.

'lchna ........... No. 277 .. Roy C. Gibbs, Master ;
Clyde L. Holcomb, Senior Warden;
William R. Stammers, Junior Warden;
P. Allen, Past Master;
J. L. Mitchell, Inspector.
:.; California ...... No~ 278 .. Earl W. Mueller, Master;
Caleb A. Yarnell, Junior Warden;
A. S. Abbott, Past Master;
A. Brookman, Past Master;
H. L. Cornish, Past Master ;
G. A. Fitch, Past Master;
J. A. Foshay, Past Master;
G. Harlan, Past Master;
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master;
J . W. Long, Past Mtaster;
H. S. Orme, Past Master;
W. E. Rowley, Past Master;
E. B. Spencer, Inspector;
F. G. Teed, Past Master ;
D. R. Weller, Past Master.
11 an ford ......... No. 279., Lloyd C. Trewitt, Master;
J. C. Ensign, Past Master.
Madera .... . ..... No. 280 .. James L. Davis, Master.
Mt. Shasta ...... , No. 281. , Edwin L. S.tory, Master.
Callayomi ........ No. 282 .. John B. Preble, Representative.
South West ...... No.283 .. Dale Smith, Master and Past Master.
San Miguel. ...... No. 285 .. George L. Andrews, Master & Past Master.
11aso Robles ...... No. 286 .. Joseph W. Eddy, Master & Past Master.
M. H. Brooks, Inspector ;
W. G. Gates, Past Master.
Winnedumah .... No. 287 .. Ira 0. Clark, Senior Warden.
Maxwell ......... No. 288 .• J. A. Pierce, Representative.
Elsinore ......... No. 289 .. Adrian B. Barnett, Junior Warden ;
C. Hudson, Past Master;
W. E. Sloan, Past Master.
East Gate ........ No. 290 .. Jacob F. Haller, Master;
Eugene F. Gray, Senior Warden;
Robert Vint, Junior Warden;
M. H. Flint, Past Master ;
0. Lawler, Past Master;
F. C. Mulkey, Past Mast·er.

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Santa Paula ...... No. 291.. Alton L. Drown, Master;
Willie McC. Stein, Senior Warden.
Orange Grove. . . . o. 293 .. George L. Jackson, Master;
E. A. Honey, Past Master.
Trever . .... . .... No. 294 .. Hugih L. Bishop, Master.
Mt. Jackson . ..... No. 295 .. William A. Turner, Master & Past Master.
Silver Gate ....... No. 296 .. Charles E. Butler, Master.
Dunsmuir ....... No. 2<J"l •• William R. Lee, Master;
G. A. Hutaff, Inspector;
F. C. Nourse, Past Master;
A. Levy, Past Master.
Mokelumne . ..... No.298 .. Clarence A. Berry, Master & Past Master;
T. C. Peters, Past Master.
Liberty ......... : No. 299 .. William C. Raymond, Master;
C. W. Haman, Past Master;
H. A. Meyers, Past Master.
Redlands ........ No. 300 .• Charles E. Latham, Master;
W. M. Campbell, Past Master;
J. A. Stone, Past Master.
Ontario .......... No. 301 .. William F. Blaikie, Master & Past Maste~· ;
Jam es P. Reed, Junior Warden.
Santa Lucia ...... No. 302 .• Jorgen C. Falkenberg, Master.
Porterville ....... No. 303 .. Obed W. Carr, Master ;
John A. Leslie, Senior Warden.
Reedley ......... No. 304 . . Albert C. Crosby, Master.
Azusa ....... . ... No. 305 .. Conrad L. Smith, Master;
Charles F. Ric)1ardson, Senior Warden;
Irving D. Roach, Junior Warden;
F. L. Clark, Past Master;
W. W. Heth, Past Master;
G. Martens, Past Master ;
C. 0. Ream, Past Master.
Ashlar ..... . .. , . No. 306 .. Earl J. Strock, Master;
Thomas C. Lanier, Senior Warden;
T. C. Browning, Past Master;
0. D. Guire, Past Master;
J. B. Hanna, Past Master.
Santa Monica ..... No. 307 .. William N. Barrow, Master;
Il:a D. Wheeler, Senior Warden;
Wirt P. Griffiths, Junior Warden;
J. A. Balsley, Past Master;
J. E. Dunham, Past Master;
N. R. Folsom, Past Master;
C. W. Rogers, Past Master;
0. G. Tullis, Past Master.

Monrovia .. ...... No. 308 .. Lawrence N. Wheeler, Master & P. Master;
William L. Hanna, Senior Warden;
Stewart H. Reynolds, Junior Warden;
E. Ingram, Past Master.
Delano ~ ......... No. 309 .. Roswell M. Wilbur, Senior Warden;
C. W. Cline, Past Master;
J. J. Schlitz, Past Master.
Sisson . .......... No. 310 .• Charles E. Glidden, Master & Past Master.
Los Banos ...... . No. 312 .. George W . Mead, Master;
Bert A. Wilson, Junior Warden;
J. E. Place, Inspector;
A. H. Salan, Past Master.
Tehachapi ....... No. 313 .• William H. Whisler, Master;
Leonard T. Jenkins, Senior Warden;
P. J. McFarlane, Past Master;
P. Marx, Past Master;
J. H. Sheridan, Past Master ;
G. T. Van Voorhees, Past Master.
Temescal . . ...... No. 314 . . Charles M. Scoville, Master & Past Master;
Linus L. Andiiews, Senior Warden;
Fred J. Mueller, Junior Warden;
A. H. Larrabee, Past Master;
C. B. Randall, Past Master;
A. C. Wood, Past Master.
Norwalk ..... . ... No. 315 .. George C. Buehn, Master & Past Master;
Simon Neubauer, Senior Warden ;
A. E. Dressel!, Past Master;·
J. Hay, Past Master.
Sanger .......... No.316 .. Frank K. Sayier, Master.
Fallbrook ..... . .. No. 317 .. Frank R. Day, Master and Past Master;
Edward C. Reader, Senior Warden;
Lee C. Ellis, Junior Warden.
Emmanuel .. . .... No. 318 .. Frank E. Archambault, Senior Warden.
Hollenbeck . . .... No. 319 . . Lewis A. Hauser, Master;
Brinton B. Gregory, Senior Warden;
Hudson Y. Gibson, Junior Warden;
F. H. Brooks, Past Master;
C. A. Charlton, Past Master;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
W. J. Sanborn, Past Master ;
J. A Smith, Past Master;
E. A. Talbot, Past Master ;
L. V. Youngworth, Past Master.

202

203

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Gate ....... No. 320 .. Martin L.Griffith, Master;
Fred'k C. Kruell, Senior Warden ;
Ralph W. E. Cole, Junior Warden;
R. E. Dill, Inspector;
W. H. Gaynor, Past Master;
J. W. Kemp, Past Master;
G. D. McGilliard, Past Maste r;
J. W. Musselman, Past Master;
0. H. P. Parke, Past Master;
C. A. Sweet, Past Master.
Alisa! .. . ........ No. 321 . . Wilbur J. Dakin, Master.
Alhambra ........ No. 322 .. Olaf G. Myren, Master;
Earle W. Greene, Junior Warden;
B. B. Cartwright, Past Master.
Whittier ......... No. 323 .. John P. Wyatt, Master;
Talbert B. Moorhead, Senior Warden;
Lee C. Sawin, Junior Warden;
D. L. Crane, Past Master;
W. M. Hiatt, Past Master;
J. H . Stewart, Inspector.
Corona ........ . . No. 324 .. Harry T. Clifton, Master;
Alvin W. Viney, Senior Warden;
Jahn V. Eliot, Junior Warden;
P. J. Priaulx, Past Master;
L. L. Test, Inspector.
Consuelo ..... ; .. No. 325 .. Edgar E. Turrentine, Senior Warden ;
W. W. Carpenter, Jr., Past Master.
Needles . . ........ No. 326 .. L. V. Root, Representative & Past Master.
Long Beach . ..... No. 327 .• Harvey E. Shaw, Senior Warden;
C. H. Shaw, Inspector.
Redondo .. . ...... No. 328 . . George H. Anderson, Master;
C. W. Grasse!, Past Master;
J. G. Stark, Past Master;
J. W. Flint, Past Master.
Vallee de France .. No. 329 .. Frank Clarke Prescott, Master;
Hector Alliot, Senior Warden;
James F. Martinoni, Junior Warden;
A. F. Bouelle, Past Master;
B. J. Barthe, Past Master;
A. Cazeaux, Past Master;
L. Curtet, Past ·Master;
C. Deutsch, Past Master;
M. Eyraud, Past Master;
L. Sentous, Jr., Past Master;
J . Viole, Past Master.

Kilauea .......... No. 330 .. Joshua D. Tucker, Representative.
l~acific Grove ..... No. 331 .. Charles K. Johnston, Master;
Richard Chivers, Senior Warden ;
W . C. Cook, Past Master;
J. Proctor, Past Master ;
C. K. Tuttle, Inspector.
S1111 Pedro ..... . . No. 332. ,Franklin E. Blausey, Master;
James J. Golds.worthy, Senior Warden;
Edmund P. Ingmiro, Junior Warden;
W. B. Duncan, Past Master;
J. Gray, Past Master;
H. S. Lane, Past Master;
E. A. Miller, Past Master ;
D. C. Thornton, Past Master;
E. E. Young, Past Master.
l\lta .. ........... No. 333 .. J. D. Murphey, Past Master.
Covina . ....... . . No. 334 .. Percy L. Nash, Insp., Master & P. Master;
George B. Scofield, Senior Warden;
Wells C. Merwin, Junior Warden ;
J. Brunjes, Past Master;
F. E. Dudderar, Past Master;
T. F. Griswold, Past Master;
A. Nigg, Past Master.
West Gate ...... No. 335 .• Daniel J. Brownstein, Master;
D. Cave, Inspector ;
H . W. Louis, Past Master.
Fruitvale .. .•... . No. 336 .. John H . Helmstein, Senior Warden.
San Jacinto ... .. .. No. 338 .·.William H. Gray, Junior Warden ;
G. F. Hunt, Past Master.
Fullerton ........ No. 339 .. W. H. Bogardus, Repres·entative.
Oxnard .......... No. 341 .• Rudolph Beck, Mast.er and Past Master;
R. D. Snively, Past Master.
Manila . . .. ·. .... . No. 342 . . Luthier A. Renner, Inspector.
San Fernando ... . No. 343 .. Charles J. Shaug, Master;
J. Burr, Past Master.
Starr King ...... . No. 344 .. Charles M. Wollenberg, Master.
Brentwood ....... No. 345 .• Austin W. Collins, Master.
Palo Alto ... .. .. . No. 346 .• Alfred Seale, Master.
McKinley ... ... . . No. 347 .. William E. Rose, Senior Warden.
San Berna·rdino ... No. 348 .. J am"es Shedden, Senior W a:rden ;
B. F. Bledsoe, Past Master;
J. Flagg, Inspector;
J. B. Frith, Past Master;
J. F. Johnson, Jr., Past Master;
C. Post, Past Master.

205

206

PROC~EDINGS OF THE

G.RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Sequoia · · · ·· ..... No. 349 .. Charles Chubb, Master and Past Master;
Edward F . Hughes, Senior Warden
Cavite · · · ··· . . ... No. 350 . . Mason E. Mitchell, Rep. and Past Master.
Palestine . . ...... No. 35 I . . Otto F. Reinen, Master ;
Robert P. Tuttle, Senior Warden;
Joseph Stevens, Junior W arden;
A. J. Wheeler, Past Master.
Sunset .... . ...... No. 352 .. Daie 0. Peet, Master;
George E. Delavan, Jr., Senior Warden;
Hugh G. Shang, Junior Warden;
C. H. Bridges, Past Master;
S. E. Burke, Inspector;
R. A. Chase, Past Master ;
J. R. Clark, Past Master;
D. M. Sut!h:erland, Past Master.
Pinole · · · .... . .. . No. 353 .. Walter H . Jackson, Master ;
Stephen Johnston, Junior Warden.
Presidio . ........ No. 354 .. Hugh K. McKevitt, Master ;
W. A. Sherman, Inspector.
Hollywood ....... No. 355 .. Herman L. Baake, Master;
Meredith T. Spencer, Senior Warden;
Charles E. Toberman, Junior Warden;
C. E. Boag, Past Master;
C. F. Koehler, Past Master;
R. Young, Past Master.
Mill Valley .. .. ... No. 356 .. C. H. Becker, Representative.
Buena Park . .. ... No. 357 .. Samuel D. Winters, Master & Past Master;
Isaac D. Jaynes, Senior Warden;
Charles L. McComber, Junior Warden;
E. E. Angell, Past Master;
J . S. Perry, Past Master;
J . H. Whitaker, Past Master.
Golden State . ... . No. 358 .• Henry W. Bohrman, Master ;
Jonathan C. Duncan, Sen~r Warden ;
Harry E. Betz, Junior Warden;
H. H. Balderston, Past Master;
J. H . Bean, Inspector;
B. F. Kierulff, Jr., Past Master;
A. E. Wright, Past Master.
San Francisco . . . . No. 360 .. Arthur W. Baker, Master;
. Arthur S. Young, Senior Warden;
H . S. Johnson, Past Master; .
H . D. Loveland, Past Master;
J. Claude Perry, Past Master.

ll11rt Bragg ....... No. 361. .Edward J. O'Connor, Master.
llharity .. . . ...... No. 362 .. J. J . Cornell, Rep. and Past Master.
li<trkcley ........ . No. 363 . . Charles H. Benton, Master ;
G. B. Ochiltree, Past Master.
Willits ....... .. . No. 365 .. William I. Rice, Master.
J,11 Palmas ...... No. 366 . •Speed B. Leas, Master;
J. P. Bernhard, P ast Master;
B. A. F assett, Past Master ;
J. C. Pottle, Inspector.
•;·>Uth Pasadena . .,No. 367 .• William L. Cox, Master ;
Jarvis R. Wilder, Senior Warden ;
John E. Carson, Junior Warden ;
B. V. Garwood, Past Master;
H. C. Packer, Past Master ;
J. C. Pridham, Past Master ;
l1nity .. . .. .. .. .. . No. 368 . . Charles W. McFadden, Master;
John Hobbs, Senior Warden;
Richard C. Sternberg, Junior Warden.
Ocean Park .... .. No.369 .. Robert J . Haney, Master ;
Thomas H . Hanna, Senior Warden;
Francis C. Wolff, Junior Warden;
A. R. Fraser, Past Master;
C. H . Ritchie, Past Master ;
C. S. Thatcher, Past Master.
Amity ... ..... ... No. 370 . . William P. Stanton, Master;
A. L. Zett, Past Master.
Oceanic .. . .. . ... . No. 371 .. Joshua D. Tucker, Representative.
Gardena ........ . No. 372 . . Alonzo F . Hann, Master and Past Master;
Walton W. Pitman, Senior Warden.
Veteran . .. ... . .. No. 373 . . A. Hicket!h1er, Represerttative.
J ewe! . .. ..... .. . . No. 374 . . Arthur D. Davidson, Master;
Joseph Levin, Senior Warden;
Burnside Cromwell, Junior War. & P . Mas;
J. A. Snell, Past Master.
Richmond . .. ... .. No. 375 . . George G. Gillespie, Master ;
Luther Sanborn, Senior Warden;
W. E. Bidwell, Past Master ;
D. B. Crane, Inspector;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master.
Francis Drake ... . No. 376 . . G. F. McDonald, Rep. and P ast Master.
Artesia ... .. .... . No. 377 . . Louis R. Riave, Master;
G. R. Frampton, Past Master.

207

PROCEEDINGS OF T:ij:E

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mizpah .......... No. 378 .• John E. Perrins, Master;
Harry A. Fulsom, Senior Warden ;
George R. Harrison, Junior Warden;
L. W. Harmon, Past Master;
B. Marchese, Past Master;
C. E. Sebastian, Past Master.
Fillmore ......... No. 379 .. G. E. Webb, Representative & Past Master.
Huntington ...... No. 380 .. Spencer L. Blodget, Master & Past Master;
Ralph E. Grav.es, Senior Warden;
James A. Lak_e, Junior Warden ;
G. A. Shank, Past Master.
Highland Park ... No. 382 . . Harold F. Weller, Master;
George M. Duntley, Senior Warden;
.Arthur D. Bond, Junior Warden;
H. G. Knox, Past Master;
W. R. Morehouse, Past Master;
F. E . Vincent, Inspector.
Orosi ... . ·. . . ..... No. 383 .. Frank N. Bump, Master and Past Master.
El Centro . ...... . No. 384 .. John S. Ross, Senior Warden;
H . H. Peterson, Past M ast~.
Dinuba ..... ; .... No. 385 .• George M. Dopkins, Master;
·;
Abner Fraser, Senior Warden;
Eldridge C. Scruggs, Junlor Warden;
H . W. Ensign, Past Master.
Corregidor ...... No. 386 .• John Which~r, Representative.
Coalinga . ........ No. 387 .. Henry L. Seavers, Master;
H. E. Robinson," Senior Warden.
Parnassus ....... . No. 388 .. Frank C. Sunder, Master;
Andrew L. Johnston, Senior Warden.
Palos Verdes .. ... No. 389 .. E. E . Archer, Past Master;
J. Hewitt, Past Master;
W. F. Stevens, Past Master.
Imperial .. . .. . ... No. 390 .. Ralph L. Oak, Junior Ward en ;
B. H. Cook, Past Master.
East Belt ......... No. 391 .. W. S. Beeman, Rep. and Past Master.
We~t 'L ake ....... No. 392 .. Milton F. Curtin, Master;
Paul Overton, Senior Warden;
William T. Osterholt, Junior Warden;
H. M. Hurd, Past Master.
Balder . . ..... ... No. 393 . . Charles G. Johnson, Master.

University .. ... . . No. 394 .. Arthur M. Ellis, Master;
Owen R. Stafford, Senior Warden;
C. H. E.rvin, Past Mast·er;
I. J. Mitchell, Past Master;
J . E. Walker, Past Master.
Turlock ......... No. 395 .. Arthur J . Eddy, Junior Warden.
'\polio .......... No. 396 .. Elbert N. Clintsman, Master.
Rising Light. .... No. 397 .. Carleton E. West, Master;
Walter F. Kittle, Senior Warden;
Charles Bevan, Junior Warden;
J . A. .Bailey, Past Master;
C. D. Hubbard, Past Master;
C. C. Hardey, Past Master;
F . T . Thompson, Past Master.
Fnwler .......... No. 398 .. A. J. Smit'h, Representative & Past Master.
Fraternity ...... . No. 399 .. Paul Rudolph, Senior Warden.
llurlingame . ..... No. 400. ,George A. Beebe, Senior Warden.
llay View ....... No. 401 .. Sidney H. Wilson, Master.
Brawley .. ... . .. . No. 402 .. Herbert L. Fulton, Master.
\ erba Buena ..... No. 403 .. F. W. LeBallister, Rep. and Past Master.
(~lendora ... ..... No. 404 .. George B. Gordon, Master.
l\foneta ......... No.405 .. Evert C. Williamson, Master;
Hazen E. Collins, Senior Ward en ;
John F. Haizlip, Junior Warden;
F. 1.'. f'urdy, Past Master.
Burbank . .... ... No. 406 .. Char res B. Fischer, Master ;
J udgoe f . Shelton, Junior Warden;
G. M. <'.>lin, Past Master.
La Mesa ......... No.407 .. Wm. E. Lyon, Senior Warden;
John A. MacRae, Past Master.
Sierra Madre .... No. 408 .. William J . Lawless, Master;
Jay A. Patterson, Junior Warden;
J. D. Mackerras, Representative.
11onolulu ....... No. 400 .. Joshua D. Tucker, Representative.
Charter Rock ..... No.410 .. William E. Rose, Master;
S. W. Smith, Past Master;
E. A. Stevenson, Past Master;
E. S. Valentine, Past Master.
Perris .. .. . . ..... No. 411 .. Henry M. Harford, Senior Warden;
William A. Guthridge, Junior Warden;
G. W. Cummins, Past Master.

208

14

209

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21C

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Calexico ........ No. 412 .. James B. Hoffman, Master.
Waucoba .. ...... No. 413 .. Jonathan W. McMurray, Master;
Samuel G. McMurry, Junior Warden.
Arlington ....... No. 414 .. Charles P. Lyndall, Master;
Herbert F. Hughes, Senior Warden;
Angus L. Cavanaugh, Junior Warden;
J. P. Gilmer, Past Master;
J. Bieber, Past Master;
J. C. Lewis, Past Master.
Silver Trowel. ... No. 415 .. Frank R. Clayton, Master;
Robert W. Burns, Senior Warden;
Jacob S. Fogel, Junior Warden;
H. H. Me<lay, Past Master.
Lindsay ......... No. 416 .. Zina E. Page, Master.
Clovis . .......... No. 417 .. C. T. Reyburn, Representative.
Elysian .......... No. 418 .. Enoch A. Troxel, Master;
Robert J. Burke, Senior Warden;
Charles A. Jones, Junior Warden;
F. G. Finlayson, · Past Master;
J. I. Moyse, Past Master.
Upland .......... No.419 .. George P . Smith, Master;
Albert J. Hoel, Junior Warden.
Kerman ... ...... No. 420 .. Leslie G. Sandell, Master ;
E. E. Kaufman, Past Master.
Inglewood ....... No. 421 .. George E. Wright, Master;
J. H. Kew, Past Master.
Eagle Rock ....... No.422 .. Godfrey Edwards, Master;
Wilbur Miller, Junior Warden;
H. E. McConnell, Past Master.
York .............. U. D .. Charles R. Church, Master;
George W. Bryson, Senior Warden;
Joseph Lewis, Junior Warden.
Exeter ............. U. D .. Edwa;d H. Miles, Master;
Francis W. Mixter, Senior Warden.
Holtviille .......... U. D .. Charles D: Hartshorn, Master.
Midway ... . ....... U. D .. Fred'k L. Seyboldt, Junior Warden.
Chino Valley ....... U. D .. Edwin Rhodes, Master;
Gerhard Mayer, Senior Warden;
Elmo C Daniels, Junior Warden.
San Dimas ......... U. D .. Charles D. Fairbanks, Master;
Francis G. Wyman, Senior Warden;
John A. Hansen, Junior Warden.

211

Pittsburg .......... U. D .. Archie V. McFattl, Master & Past Master.
McCloud .......... U . D .. James C. Wilder, Senior Warden.
Alpha .. ... . ........ U. D .. Hershey A. Stiver, Master.
I lammonton ..... .. U. D .. James H. McGill, Master.
Roseville .......... U. D .. Lewis Barrett, Senior Warden.

Which report was concurred in.
Concerning the following proposed amendments to the
Constitution, introduced by Brother J. Claude Perry:
R esolved, That Section 28 (Part I, Article VII, Section 2) of the
C'•>nstitution, be amended to read as follows: After the words "and
•>II credentials" insert "and on Library."
Also, that a new sectlon, to be known as Section 32a (Part I,
Article VII, Section 7) be added to the Constitution, to read as follows : "All members of the Committee on Library shall be residents
of the Bay counties, and it shall be their duty to meet at the library
of the Grand Lodge once each month and on the call of the Chairman.
They shall have a general supervision over the library, make and
rnforce all rules relative to the care and loaning of books, .and they
·1hall have the power to incur the necessary incidental ·expenditures
with the permission of the Grand Master."
Also, that subdivision 14 of Section 50 (Part II, Article IV, Sec1!011 1) of the Constitution, is hereby repealed.

M.'. W.'. William S. Wells, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California.:

Your Committee to whom was referred the resolutions offered by
Brother Perry, relative to a Library Committee, have had the same
under consideration, and report as follows:
We recommend the adoption of the resolutions, with the exception of the last paragraph thereof repealing subdivision 14 of Section SO of the Constitution, and as to that section, we recommend
that it be not adopted.

The report of the Committee was adopted, and the
amendments to the Constitution, as recommended, were
unanimously carried.

212

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The following proposed amendment to the Constitution,
to be known as Section 129a (Part III, Article III, Section
20), being unfinished business from last year. was then
taken up, and after thorough debate and consideration, the
ayes and noes being called, was carried by more than the
required two-thirds vote of Grand Lodge:
"Section 129a. No Lodge shall receive an application for tlie
degrees of Masonry, or for affiliation, from any one who is engag.ed,.
either as principal, agent or employe, in the saloon business (except
in connection with, and as part of, the operation of a bona fide hotel or
restaurant), or who is a barkeeper; and any Mason who may hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon business, either as owner,
agent, or employe, except in connection with and as part of theopera tion of a bona fide hotel or restaurant, or who shall become <t
barkeeper, shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall,
upon due trial and conviction of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights
and privileges, including membership in any Lodge."

The Grand Lodge was then called off ,until 9 :30 o'clock·
Friday .morning.

Ju "run~ :nlo~gr.
Friday, October 11, A. L. 5912:The Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and .
approved.
On motion, Section 17a of the Constitution, was suspended, and the election of officers was fixed for 11 o'clock
this morning.
M.'. W.'. Frank M. Angellotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as to the proposed Constitutional Amendment relating to concurrent jurisdiction,
as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

213

' o the M.". W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
In his address last year Grand Master Weller recommended a
change in our Constitutional provisions relating to jurisdiction of
l;odges not having concurrent jurisdiction with other Lodges, owing
1 the fact that the "air line method" of determining jurisdiction is, "in
these days of trolley car and other means of rapid conveyance," not
nlways satisfactory. The matter was referred to this Committee with
Instructions to devise and report such changes as are deemed advisable.
After full consideration, we are satisfied that the law now in force
1hould prevail as the general rule. We are of the opinion that no
other method can l:>e devised that would be practicable. We realize,
however, that in rare cases, special circumstances may absolutely ;equire that a particular Lodge should have a special jurisdiction. We
think that where any such special jurisdiction is given, it should be given
only after notice to all Lodges interested and after full consideration
by the Grand Lodge, and that the boundaries of the territory of such
1,odge should be made a matter of record in our proceedings. This is
nhsolutely essential to prevent confusion and complaints of excess of
jurisdiction. We have prepared a Constitutional amendment along these
lines, providing for such cases.
We recommend that our Constitution be amended by adding thereto
n new section, to be know as 92a (Sec. 13, Art. II, Part III), to
read as follows :
"If it be made to appear to the Grand Lodge that special circumstances require that in the case of any particular Lodge or Lodges
the general rules as to the territory over which such Lodge or Lodges
fthall have jurisdiction should not apply, the Grand Lodge may by
resolution define the territory over which such Lodge or Lodges shall
liave jurisdiction. When such a resolution is adopted, the Lodge o.r
l,odges therein named shall thenceforth have exclusive jurisdiction over
the territory therein described, and shall have no jurisdiction, exclusive
•>r concurrent, over any other territory, or over any Mason, not a
member of said Lodge or Lodges, residing outside of such territory.
The provisions of Section 6, Article II, Part III (Section 82), shall no
longer be applicable to such Lodge or Lodges. No such resolution
1hall be adopted except upon the recommendation of the Grand Master,
and after reference to the Committee on Jurisprudence and report
!'hereon. Notice of the application for any such resolution, with a
precise statement of the poundaries of the proposed territory, shall
be given by the applicant Lodge or Lodges at least 30 days prior to the
commencement of the annual Communication of the Grand Lodge at
which the same is to be made, to each Lodge whose. jurisdiction
will be affected by the proposed resolution. Such resolution may be
repealed or 'modified at any subsequent annual communication of the

214

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge; provided t'hat no modification enlarging the territory included shall be adopted except upon compliance with all the conditions
prescribed for an original resolution. As long as such resolution continues in force, the provisions of this section shall, as to such Lodge or
Lodges, be paramount to all other provisions of this Constitution in
the matter of jurisdiction."

The report was adopted, and the Constitution amended
as above by unanimous vote.

R.". W .". William P. Filmer introduced the .following:
Whereas, the Grand Lodge .o f California desires to endorse the
movement under way (indorsed by thirty-five Grand Lodges of the
United States) to erect a memorial 1iall to Washington the Mason,
in which the Grand Jurisdictions may place memorials to their dis- ·
tinguished Masons; therefore be it
"'
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge heartily indorses said. movement,
and hereby appropriates the sum of $200.00 from the · funds of the
Grand Lodge for membership in the Association formed for the pur- .
pose above stated.

.,

Referred to the. Committee on Finance, and Brother
Ralph Lowe for said . Committee, reported back the resolution, · recommending that it do pass. The Grand Lodge
concurred, and the appropriation was passed by unanimous.,
vote.
Brother Goldaracena, Chairman of the Committee on-.
Finance, presented the following resolution : ·
"Resolved, That beginning with the sixty-fourth session of this
Grand Lodge, no appropriations of the funds of the Grand Lodge shall
be mad~, except in times of great loss or great calamity, when the
.
moneys m the general fund do not exceed the sum of $25,000.00.
"It is further resolved, That, of the funds of this Grand Lodge in
the general fund, the sum of $25,000.00 shall at all times be held in
sound banking institutions, or the same invested in seasoned interestbearing bonds."

The resolution was adopted by 1,lnanimous vote.

215

Brother Henry M. Owens introduced the following proposed amendment to the Constitution:
Resolved, That Section 129a of the Constitution be amended to
read as follows :
Sec. 129a. No Lodge shall receive an application for the degrees
>f Masonry, or for affiliation, from any one who is engaged either as
principal, agent or employe, in the saloon business; and any Mason
who may hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon business, either
as owner, agent or employe, shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall upon due trial and conviction of said offense, forfeit all
Masonic rights and privileges, including membership in any Lodge,
except when acting under order of any Court.

By request of Brother Owens, the abo•·e was referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence, to be reported at the
Annual Communication in 1913, and to be considered by
lirand Lodge at that time.
Brother Charles A. Adams, Chairman of the Committee
on Pay of Members, reported as follows :
To the M. '. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the Officers or
Representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing Committees, and
Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for transportation to and
from the Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged that
duty, and submit the following statement:
GRAND OFFICltRS.

Alonzo J. Monroe, Grand Master, Eureka . .. . . . . ... . .. . . .. . $
William P. Filmer, Deputy Grand Master, San Francisco ... .
John D. Murphey, Senior Warden, Bridgeport. ........ . . . . .
Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Junior Grand Warden, San Bernardino
J o'hn Which er, Grand Secretary, San Francisco . .. ... . .. . . .. .
Thomas ]. Baker, Grand Lecturer, San Francisco ... .. .. . . . . .
Harry S. Johnson, Assistant Grand Secretary, San Francisco ..
William Kettner, Grand Marshal, San Diego ............... .
Joshua D. Tucker, Grand Standard Bearer, Honolulu, H. T .. .

55.00
35.00
35.00
3.75
35.00
35.00
35.00
12.50
170.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

216

Osmond M. Robbins, Grand Sword Bearer, Santa Ana ..... .
William S. Moses, Grand Bible Bearer, San Francisco ..... .
Ben Levi, Junior Grand Deacon, San Francisco ............. .
William E. Meservey, Senior Grand Steward, Nevada City ... .
Benjamin B. Tuttle, Junior Grand Steward, Davis ......... .
Theodore J. Milliken, Grand Pursuivant, Sacramento ....... .
Samuel D. Mayer, Grand Organist, San Francisco ........... .
George P. Adams, Grand Tyler, San Francisco ............. .
Total

2.25
35.00
35.00
42.00
35.25
34."50
35.00
35.00
$670.25

PAST GRAND MASTERS.

William T. Lucas, Santa Maria .......................... .
Thomas Flint, San Juan .................................. .
Frank M. Angellotti, San Francisco ........................ .
William S. Wells, Oakland ............................... .
George M. Perine, San Francisco ........................... .
Total

19.50
35.50
35.00
35.00
$125.00

CHAIRMEN STANDING COMMITTEES.

Henry M. Owens, Grievances, San Francisco ............... .
Oral M. Goldaracena, Finance, San Francisco ............... .
Elmore M. Billings, Returns, Calistoga ..................... .
Charles A. Adams, Pay of Members, San Francisco ......... .
Curtis J. Monroe, Credentials, Lakeport. .................. .
Henry Ascroft, Accounts, San Francisco ................... .
Edward S. Valentine, Endowment of M'asonic Homes, Berkeley
Total

35.00
35.00
37.50
35.00
49.25
35.00
35.00
$261.75

INSPECTORS.

Trustom R. Dinsmore, First District, Eureka ............... .
Roy Moore, Second District, Mendocino ................... .
Gustav A. Hutaff, Fifth District, Dunsmuir ................. .
Henry G. Hill, Sixth District, Redding ..................... .
Ernest C. Bonner, Seventh District, Alturas ............... .
Samuel H. Crow, Ninth District, Janesville ................. .
Eliphalet L. Case, Twelfth District, Downieville ............. .
Frederick L. Arbogast, Fourteenth District, Nevada City ... .
M. David Lininger, Fifteenth District, Auburn ............. .

55.00.
50.00
52.00
47.75
77.00
59.50
52.00
42.00
36.75

I lcrbert J. Graham, Sixte·enth District, Oroville ............ .
George H. Simmons, Eighteenth District, Williams ......... .
Morton S. Sayre, Nineteenth District, Lakeport. ............ .
Charles E. Trower, Twenty-first District, Napa ............. .
John F. Morgan, Twenty-second District, Sacramento ..... .
llayes H. Gable, Twenty-third District, Woodland ......... .
J,ouis A. Reeg, Twenty-fourth District, Placerville ......... .
Jam es E. Dye, Twenty-fifth District, Jackson ............... .
Frederick W. Clough, Twenty-sixth District, Angel's Camp ..
Edward C. Stewart, Twenty-seventh District, Stockton ..... .
l,ouis N. Buttner, Twenty-eighth District, Martinez ......... .
Sterling P. Dobbins, Twenty-ninth District, Vacaville ....... .
A. Bradford Webster, '1'1hirty-first District, Berkeley ....... .
Douglas B. Crane, 'Thirty-fourth District, San Francisco ... .
William A. Sherman, Thirty-fifth District, San Francisco ... .
Roderick G. Guyett, Thirty-sixth District, San Francisco ..... .
George F. Rodden, Thirty-seventh District, Ross ........... .
C"harles G. Landscheit, Thirtyceighth District, Redwood City ..
John P. Jarman, Thirty-ninth District, San Jose ......... .
Charles K. Tuttle, Fortieth District, Pacific Grove ......... .
I.. A. C. H. Kylberg, Firty-first Di.strict, Merced ........... .
Joseph E. Place, Forty-second District, Los Banos ........... .
James C. Pottle, Forty-fourth District, Fresno ............. .
John L. Mitchell, Forty-fifth District, Selma ............... .
Myron H. Brooks, Forty-ninth District, Paso Robles ....... .
Able rt A. Dudley, Fiftieth District, Santa Maria ........... .
David J. Reese, Fifty-first District, Ventura ............... .
Lemuel L. Test, Fifty-seventh District, Pasadena ...... , .... .
William A. Vandergrift, Fifty-eighth District, Pomona ..... .
James H. Stewart, Sixtieth District, Whittier ............... .
Clark H. Shaw, Sixty-first District, Long Beach ............. .
Eli B. Trago, Sixty-second District, Santa Ana ............. .
John Flagg, Sixty-third District, San Bernardino ...... , ... , .
Henry D. French, Sixty-fourth District, Riverside ......... , ..
Jdhn B. Osborn, Sixty-fifth District, San Diego .......... , .. .
Louis Muller, Special District, San Francisco ............... .
Giovanni Scalmanini, Special District, San Francisco ....... .
Total

217
39.00
38.50
49.25
38.50
34.50
41.50
38.50
38.00
37.50
31.00
34.25
36.75
35.00
35.00
35.00
35.00
35.50
34.50
33.00
30.50
26.00
26.75
22.25
21.50
21.00
19.50
5.00

.so

2.25
1.00
.50
2.25
3.75
3.75
12.50
35.00
35.00
$1,441.25

218

.

PROCIDEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

219

RECAPITULATION.

*For Representatives of Lodges ............................ . 8,840.30
For Grand Officers ............ .............. .... . ....... .. .
670.25
For Past Grand Masters ..... .... . ...... ....... . . ... . .... . . .
125.00
For Chairmen of Standing Committees ... .... ......... .. ... .
261.75
For Inspectors ..... . .... . . . . . .. . .... . ............. . ....... . 1,441.25
Grand Total. .......................................... $11,338.55

Resolved, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of the
State of California for the current fiscal year, in addition to the dues
prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of 20 cents for each member borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports.
Said levy shall be for the payment of Representatives, Grand Officers,
Past Grand Masters and Inspectors, and shall be paid at the same
time and in the manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
CHARLES ALB:ERT ADAM$,

H. D. K:ERCHJ(VAL,
H. H. M:EDAY,
A. L. AURADOU,
Committee on Pay of Members.

The report was adopted as presented.

The Grand Master announced that election of officers
ior the . ensuing year was now in order, and named as
tellers, Brothers Douglas B. Crane, Robie E. Dill, Ernest
C. Bonner and Edward B. Spencer. The election resulted
as follows:
The R. ·. W. ·. William Parker Filmer, of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260, was unanimously elected Grand
Master;
The R.". w:. John Douglas Murphey, of Alta Lodge
No. 333, was unanimously elected Deputy Grand Master;
The R.". w:. Benjamin Franklin Bledsoe, of San Bernardino Lodge No. 348, was unanimously .elected Senior
Grand Warden;
*For items, see pages 170-178; 215-218.

The W.". Albert Glenn Burnett, of Santa Rosa Lodge
No. 57, was elected Junior Grand Warden;
The V:. w:. Edward Coleman, of Madison Lodge No.
23, was unanimously re-elected Grand Treasurer·

'

The V.". W:. John Whicher, of King.David's Lodge No.
209, was unanimously re-ele.cted Grand Secretary;
The v.·. W.". Thomas John Baker, of Union Lodge No.
58, was unanimously re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Secretary, on motion, was directed to telegraph to Edward Coleman the congratulations of Grand
Lodge on his re-election; which duty was cheerfully performed.
By order of the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary
read the list of officers appointed by the Grand Masterelect, as follows :
Grand Chaplain, V.". R.". Edwin Allen Sherman, of
Oakland Lodge. No. 188;
Grand Orator, W:. Wm. Rhodes Hervey, of Pentalpha
Lodge No. 202;
Assistant Grand Secretary, Harry Sumner Johnson, of
San Francisco Lodge No. 360;
Grand Marshal, W:. William Kettner, of San Diego
Lodge :t:'J'o. 35;
Grand Standard Bearer, W. ·. Joshua Daniel Tucker, of
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21;
Grand Sword Bearer, W:. Leo Valtus Youngworth,
of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 i
Grand Bible Bearer, W:. William Schuyler Moses,
of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30;
Senior Grand Deacon, W. ·. Ben Levi, of Doric Lodge
No. 216;

220

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Junior Grand Deacon, W.'. Fred Burrage Wood, of
King Solomon's Lodge No. 260;
Senior Grand Steward, W. ·. Roland English Hartley,
of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260;
Junior Grand Steward, W.'. Benjamin Beecher Tuttle,
of Athens Lodge No. 228;
Grand Pursuivant, W. ·. Theodore Jones Milliken, of
Tehama Lodge No. 3;
Grand Organist, W. ·. Samuel David Mayer, of California Lodge No. 1 ;
Grand Tyler, W. ·. George Perrin Adams, of California
Lodge No. 1.
The Grand Officers., excepting the Grand Treasurer, the
Grand Chaplain, the Grand Marshal, the Grand Sword
Bearer, and the Senior Grand Steward, were then duly installed in their several stations and places by Grand Master
Alonzo Judson Monroe, assisted by Past Grand Master
George Mairs Perine as Master of Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a splendid solid silver tea set, with the compliments of Grand
Lodge, the delivery being made by the silver-tongued
Junior Grand Warden, Albert G. Burnett.

Brother Ernest C. Bonner presented the following:
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California appreciates more than .
words can possibly express, the generosity of the Masons of Sout!hern
California in the courtesies and kindly treatment showered upon it
and its members. Now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge hereby tenders to the Masons
of Southern California, and particularly to the Brethren of Los Angeles, our heartfelt thanks for their munificent 'hospitality.

Which was carried by a rising vote.

221

The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
Standing Committees for the ensuing year, as follows:

•

Jurisprudence:
F. M. Angellotti,
Wm. S. Wells,
M. H. Flint,
Chas. L. Patton,
A. J. Monroe

Credentials:
F. V. Keesling,'
R. E. Dill,
F. C. Mulkey,
J. C. Stone.
A. Hugueniu.

Grievances:
Dana R. Weller,
Chas. A. Adams,
Jos. P. Bernhard,
Carlton C. Case,
R. V. Whiting,

Accounts:
Henry Ascroft,
Hugh J. Owen,
E. E. Conn,
D. E. F. Easton,
F. W. Wolters.

Finance:
0. M. Goldaracena,
Ralph Lowe,
D. B. Crane,
Edw. B. Spencer,
John Tonningsen.

Endowment Committee of Masonic
Homes:
Edward S. Valentine,
Edward Coleman,
Jam es H. MacLafferty,
Joseph D. Abrams,
Charles W. Norton,
Motley H. Flint,
Edward Strasburg,
William E. J. Baughman,
George M. Perine.

R eturns:
R. E. Allan,
Louis N. Buttner,
]. J. Wilson,
Jos. E. Levin,
Giovanni Scalmanini.
Ritual:
T. J. Baker,
Edw. H. Hart,
D. R. Weller.

Card System for Visitors:
Olin L. Berry,
Henry A. Marvin,
Arthur D. Davidson,
Robert W. Madden,
Henry Hall.

Trustees Masonic Home:
Wm. S. Wells,
Thos. Flint,
E. B. Spencer,
E. E. Stone,
M. H . Flint.

Correspondence:
Edward H. Hart,
Lemuel L. Test,
John H. McGehee,
George T. Lemon,
William B. Cameron.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~22

Pay of Members:
H . D. Kercheval,
Amos Stevens,
Wm. C. Hassler,
A. L. Auradou,
Fred T. Purdy.

Library:
J. Claude Perry,
Hugh K. McKevitt,
Bradford Webster,
Orville C. Baldwin,
Charles M. Wollenberg.

The thanks of Grand Lodge were extended to the First
Congregational Church for the use of the building and for
the many courtesies by the officers of the chur.ch, and at
3 o'clock, all business being completed, the Grand Lodge
was closed.
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
Grand Master.

JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

223

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENT
Of receipts by the Grand Secretary, for account of the Grand Lodge,
collected as annual dues from August 1st up to and including the 4th
day of October, 1912.
FUND.

1912.
Aug. 1, Fraternity, No. 399 ... . ........ . .... .
1, Alta, No. 333 ....................... .
" 1, Azusa, No. 305 .................... ..
1, Whittier, No. 323 ................... .
1,
San Buenaventura, No. 214 .... . . . ... .
"
1, Sierra Valley, No'. 184 .... . .... . . .... .
1, Ophir, No. 33 . . ... . . . . ... .. . . ... . ... .
1, Lompoc, No. 262 . .... ... ...... . . . . . .. .
1, Landmark, No. 253 .... . ....... . ..... .
· l, Graftqn, No. 141 ... . .............. . . .
1, Mosaic, No. 218 ..................... .
1, Summit, No. 112 .. ........... ... .. . . .
1, Woodbridge, No. 131 ................ .
1, Buckey-e, No. 195 .. ... . ...... ... . .. . .
1, San Bernardino, No. 348 .. . .. . .. .. . . .
1, Redlands, No. 300 ................. .. .
1, Santa Monica, No. 307 ........... . ... .
1, La Parfaite Union, No. 17 ........... .
1, Nevada, No. 13 ...... ........... ... ..
1, Fidelity, No. 120 ........ ~ ............ .
1, University, No. 394 ........... .. .... .
1, Dinuba, No. 385 .. ... .. ... . ...... . . . . .
1, Fillmore, No. 379 . ... . . . . .. . .... . . . . .
" 1, Las Palmas, No. 366 ................ ..
1, Willits, No. 365 ..................... .
1, Ashlar, No. 306 .. . .. ... ...... ... . ... .
1, Mt. Jackson, No. 29S ......... . ..... .
1, Los Gatos, No. 292 . .... . ............ .
" 1, Phoenix, No. 178 ................... .
" 1, Mission, No. 169 . . ... . . .............. .
1, Excelsior, No. 166 .. . . .. .. .... ... . .. . .
1, Yolo, No. 81 ............ . ........... .
" 1, Humboldt, No. 79 . . . .. ....... ....... . .
1, Suisun, No. SS ..... .......... .. ..... .
1, Temple, No. 14 ... ......... . ........ .
1, Tehama, No. 3 .................... ..
" 2, Union, No. S8 . ........ .. .. .... . ..... .

General.
$17S.80
33.40
83.20
170.70
12S.60
36.30
61.10
106.70
37.80
31.20
98.70
38.70
82.SO
81.90
236.30
221.80
llS.40
182.SO
173.SO
S18.10
149.30
68.80
71.10
2Sl.20
81.00
142.40
78.00
103.20
248,70
848.SO
40S.60
39.20
306.80
104.20
66.30
230.20
238.70

Ho!Ile.
$122.00
36.00
78.00
163.00
124.00
37.00
S9.00
103.00
32.00
28.00
93.00
33.00
8S.OO
81.00
217.00
222.00
116.00
16S.OO
17S.OO
499.00
117.00
62.00
S9.00
208.00
70.00
116.00
70.00
108.00
233.00
88S.OO
404.00
38.00
312,00
98.00
67.00
218.00
233.00

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FUND.
1912.
General.
Aug. 2, St. John's, No. 37 ........ . ..... .... ..
109.80
" 2, Tehachapi, No. 313 ........ .. ....... .. 161.40
2, Orland, No. 265 ...... . .. . ........... .
74.00
2, Hartley, No. 199 .......... .. ........ .
105.30
2, Marin, No. 191 .......... .... ... ..... .
217.30
2, Meridian, No. 182 .... : ............. ..
43.60
2, Curtis, No. 140 ..... : ............... ..
58.50
56.70
" 2, Table Mountain, No. 124 .. .. ......... .
2, Concord, No. 117 .............. . .... .
110.20
2, Henry Clay, No. 95 .... . ........... ..
56.10
2, North Star, No. 91 ........ ......... ..
50.80
2, Amador, No. 65 ..................... .
77.30
2, Forl:>estown, No. 50 ................ ..
29.70
2, Los Angeles, No. 42 ................. .
441.60
2, Golden Gate, No. 30 ................. .
515.40
2, Benicia, No. 5 ................ ... .... .
133.10
2, Arlington, No. 414 ....... ...... ..... . .
94.70
2, Delano, No. 309 . . .. ....... . ......... .
62.80
136.50
2, Vallee de France, No. 329 .... . ... ... .
79.00
2, Jewel, No. 374 ..................... ..
2, Magnolia, No. 242 ................... .
98.70
2, Olive Branch, No. 269 ..... ..... . ... . .
153.80
2, Orange Grove, No. 293 ... .. .... ... .. .
113.30
215.00
3, Petaluma, No. 180 .. . .. . . . ...... ... . . .
3, Volcano, No. 56 . ... ... .... . : ........ .
26.20
3, ·crescent, No. 45 .... .... . ... . ........ .
76.20
3, Hiram, No. 43 .. ·... . .. ............... .
33.10
3, Santa Cruz, No. 38 ...... . ...... . .... .
219.40
" 3, Palmyra, No. 26 ..................... . 186.30
3, Washington, No. 20 .. ..... . . ..... . .. .
154.10
52.10
" 3, Ione, No. 80 .. . ...... . . . .. . . . .. . .. . . . .
3, Santa Rosa, No. 57 . ........ .. .. .... . .
288.30
3, Kerman, No. 420 .. . . ... . .... .. . . . . .. .
34.90
3, Pacific Grove, No. 331 ... . . . ........ . . .
61.00
3, Redo.n do, No. 328 ........ . ......... ..
117.80
154.40
3, San Pedro, No. 332 ................. .
430.50
5, Silver Gate, No. 296 ................. .
5, Ferndale, No. 193 ............ .. .... ..
92.50
37.20
'" 5, San Simeon, No. 196 ....... . ... ... ... .
5, Nicolaus, No. 129 ............... . ... .
62.10
5, Live Oak, No. 61 ........ ... ........ .
650.10
5, Martinez, No. 41 . . . ................. .
108.30

Home.
112.00
126.00
70.00·
107.00
217.00
44.00
55.00
63.00
108.00

59.ob
52.00
77.00
33.00
364.00
486.00
119.00
73.00
62.00
95.00
80..00
9,3.00
132.00
107.00
210.00 '
28.00
78.00
29.00
216.00
197.00
149.00
49.00
277.00
31.00
60.00
112.00
146.00
315.00
95.00
38.00
69.00
669.00 .
107.00

1912.
Aug. 5, Trinity, No. 27 ..... . . . ....... .. .....
" 5, Occidental, No. 22 . . .. ... .... .... . ....
5, Fresno, No. 247 ......................
5, Golden State, No. 358 ...... . .........
5, Corona, No. 324 .... . ..... . .......... .
" 5, Artesia, No. 377 .... .. ... ... . .........
5, Amity, No. 370 ..... ............ . ....
5, Welcome, No. 255 ....................
5, Evergreen, No. 259 . ... . ..... . ... . .. .
5, Stanislaus, No. 206 . ..... ... . . .. . ....
5, Alturas, No. 248 .. .......... .. ........
5, Doric, No. 216 . ............ . .........
6, Anchor, No. 273 . ........ .... . .... ....
6, Hanford, No. 279 ...... . . .... ........
" 6, Oxnard, No. 341 .... : .................
6, Manila, No. 342 ......................
" 6, Jefferson, No. 97 .. .. .... ........ .....
6, Sacramento, No. 40 ....... ........ . ..
6, Antioch, No. 175 ........ ...... ......
6, La Fayette, No. 126 . ............ . ....
6, Northern Light, No. 190 ..............
7, Chico, No. 111 .... .... ........ .. ......
7, Lexington, No. 104 . . , ... . ... ... . .... .
7, Sotoyome, No. 123 ... ... .. . . .. .. ... . ..
7, Clear Lake, No. 183 .. . .......... . . ...
7, Plumas, No. 60 ... ... ... .. . .... ... ...
7, West Gate, No. 335 ....... . . . .. . .....
7, Mizpah, No. 378 ...... ....... . . .......
7, Pinole, No. 353 ... . ......... . . . .. . ...
7, San Francisco, No. 360 .. .. ... . . .. ....
7, Sanger, No. 316 . ..•... .... ..... ......
7, Athens, No. 228 .. . ..... .. ... .. . ......
7, Bodie, No. 252 ....... .. ..............
8, Hollenbeck, No. 319 .. ... .... . . ..... ..
8, Inyo, No. 221 . . . .. . ................ . .
8, Hollywood, No. 355 .. . .. ... ..........
8, Porterville, No. 303 ..................
8, Buena Park, No. 357 ........ . . .. .. . .
8, Upland, No. 419 ............. .. . .. ....
8, Pacific, No. 136 . ......... .... . .. . .. ..
8, Western Sta r, No. 62 . ... ... .. .... ....
8, Morning Star, No. 68 ................
15

225

FUND.
General.
Home.
59.30 ·
57.00
543.80
562.00
320.80
312.00
333.80
302.00
353.20
328.00
84.60
64.00
347.90
271.00
83.80
82.00
313.10
319.00
84.50 .
85.00
69.40
66.00
464.20
458.00
69.20
68.00
153.00
150.00
166.00
160.00
324.50
274.00
45.30
47.00
187.00
180.00
96.60
94.00
135.50
125.00
76.50
75.00
211.40
216.00
88.60
84.00
168.30
157.00
25.40
26.00
67.00
70.00
405.00
380.00
405.20
338.00
79.90
81.00
250.60
194.00
75.80
82.00
87.40
76.00
40.80
42.00
716.60
614.00
54.40
56.00
240.30
207.00
175.60
164.00
51.20
48.00
48.40
46.00
694.70
613.00
89.40
96.00
239.00
210.00

I

226

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FUND.
Home.
General.
1912.
87.00
101.30
Aug. 8. South West, No. 283 ........ .. .......
221.00
231.90
264
.
.
..
....
.
..
.
..
.
.
..
.
8, Hesperian, No.
57.00
55.30
" 8, Rio Vista, No. 208 .. .......... " · · · .. ·
75 .00
70.50
" 8 Russian River, No. 181. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 503.70
373.00
" 8: West L;;ike, No. 392 .. · .. · ........ · .. · 108.50
115.00
8 Truckee, No. 200 .. .... · .. .. · " .... "
160.00
191.00
" 8: Enterprise, No. 70 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 107.10
79.00
8, Downey, No. 220 . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
29.00
32.10
381. · · · · · · · · .. · .. · · · · ·
" 8, Oceanside, No.
51.00
45.90
274 . .. .... ; . .... .. .... ...
" 8, Arroyo, No.
51.00
58.90
· · · · · •· · · · · · · · · · ·
" 8, Georgetown, No.13425. ·. ·.....
128.00
125.20
. .... .. . .. .. .
" 8, Vacaville,, No. 290 .... . ..... . ........ 621.10
529.00
8, East Gate, No.
374.00
398.60
8, Alcatraz, No. 244 .. . ........ . .. .. .. . .
79.00
76.10
240
..
.
....
..
.....
.
....
.
..
" 8, Colusa, No.
433.00
421.70
8, Oak Grove, No. 215 ... .. . . ..... . . . .. .
522.00
520.80
9, King Solomon's, No. 260 . . . . . ... . . ...
267.00 .
275.30
9, San Joaquin,, No. 19 .. . ..... . ...... .. .
73.00
67.70
201
..
.
.
.
.
.
...
.
.
·:
..
.
.
9, Silveyville, No.
97.00
117.30
9, Monterey, No. 217 . ... ... .... .. ... ,. ...
40.00
39.00
135
..
..
..
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
..
..
...
.
9, Valley, No.
98.00
97.20
9, La Grange, No. 99 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
86.00
141.40
9, Silver Trowel, No. 415 . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
44.00
43.60
9, Wilmington, No. 198 .. · · · · · · · .... · · .. ·
46.00
41.40
9, Clinton, No. 119 .. .... .. ........... . ..
133.00
157.70
9, Unity, No. 368 . · · · · · · · · ·: · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
373.00
387.70
9, Crockett, No. 139 ..... . ............ . .
234.00
284.60
354
..
.
...
..
..
...
..
...
..
9, Presidio, No.
584.00
603.60
9, California, No. 1.. .... . . . .. . .. . .. .. ...
85.00
79.50
314
....
..
....
..
....
.
.
.
.
" 10, Temescal, No. 391 ... .. ... . ... . .. . . . .
36.00
40.40
" 12, East Belt, No. 207 .......... .. ..... . ..
76.00
76.40
12, Anaheim, No.
503.00
490.70
12, Pentalpha, No. 202 . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
13.00
13.70
133 .......... ... ... '. . ..
" 12, Yosemite, No.
139.00
143.10
226 .. .. ... ... .. . .....
" 12, San Mateo, No.
41.00
48.90
No. ,380 .. .. . .....
Beach,
Huntington
12,
"
60.00
66.00
298 . . ...... .. ..
" 12, Mokelumne Hill, No.
36.00
32.40
98 . .... . . . ..... .. ... . .
" 12, Hornitos, No.
66.00
73.40
275
....
.
.
.
...
...
......
.
.
12, Oakdale, No.
80.00
107.00
384 . . ... .. .. . . ... . . . ..
" 12, El Centro, No.16 . . .. .. ...... . . . .. . . . ..
92.00
102.80
" 12, Eureka, No.
53.00
56.70
83. : ..... .. .... .. ...
" 12, Rising Star, No.

.

227
FUND.

1912.
General.
Aug. 12, Mt. Shasta, No. 281 .. .. .... ... ... ... .
51.30
" 12, Palestine, No. 351 . ... .. .. .. . . . . . ..... 279.80
" 12, Monrovia, No. 308 .... .. ..... . .... .... 126.30
12, Sequoia, No. 349 . . . ... . ... .. .... . .. ; .
413.40
12, Fullerton, No. 339 ..... .. .... .. ... ... .
147.60
12, Brooklyn, No. 225 ...... .. .. .. . . ... ....
367.40
12, Gravel Range, No. 59 ... ..... . .......
29.10
12, San Benito, No. 211 .. . . . .... .. ... . ...
106.20
12, Oakland, No. 188 . . . . . .... ... . ... . ...
592.00
12, Evening Star, No. 186 . .. ... ... ..... . .
41.30
12, Sunset, No. 352 .. . .. .. .... . . . ... .... .
394.00
12, Brawley, No. 402 .. . .... .... ... ... .. .
59.40
12, Elk Grove, No. 173 ........ ... ... .. ..
75.90
12, South Gate, No. 320 ......... .. .......
731.50
12, Pasadena, No. 272 .... . . . .... .. .... . ..
430.30
12, Southern California, No. 278 .. . ..... . .
655.60
12, Mountain Shade, No. 18 .... . . . .... . . .
30.60
12, Bay View, No. 401 ..... . ..... .. .. . . . .
200.80
" 12, Liberty, No. 299 .. .... . . • .. ...• .... .. . 176.40
12, Coalinga, No. 387 .................. . .
186.10
12, Hill's Ferry, No. 236 . .... .. .. . .... . ...
52.90
12, Forest, No. 66 .. .. ... ... ... . . .. ... . ...
49.20
13, Vesper, No. 84 . ... · •··· ... . . . .......
158.30
13, Apollo, No. 396 .... . ... . . . .. ..... •. ..
120.10
13, King David's, No. 209 .... . .........
240.60
13, Laurel, No. 245 .... . .. . . . . . ... . ......
130.20
13, Covina, No. 334 ........ . .... . .... . ...
138.90
13, Corinthian, No. 9 . .. . . .. .... . . . . . . . . .
129.00
13, St. Helena, No. 93 ..... . .... .. ... ... ..
107.50
13, Claiborne, No. 185 ... . ..... .... ... ... .
48.00
13, Surprise Valley, No. 235 . ... .. . . ..... .
46.20
14, Parnassus, No. 388 ..... . .... .. ........
239.10
14, Kilauea, No. 330 . ... ..... .. . . .. .. ... .
123.75
14, McKinley, No. 347 . .. . . . .. . ...... . ...
186.20
14, Palo Alto, No. 346 .... .. .... .. .... . : ..
212.80
14, Mt. Moriah, No. 44 . . .. . ....... . . ....
335.60
14, Alameda, No. 167 ................. . ..
119.20
14, Charter Rock, No. 410 . . . . .. . . .. ......
312.10
14, Perris, No. 411 .. .... . ...............
42.20
14, San Jacinto, No. 338 .. ..... .. .... . ..
80.70
14, Mill Valley, No. 356 .... . .... . ... .. ...
162.60
14, Inglewood, No. 421 .. ... ... ... .... .. .
59.40

Home.
47.00
252.00
127.00
336.00
134.00
306.00
29.00
98.GO
540.00
37.00
290.00
46.00 .
71.00
655.00
397.00
664.00
34.00
142.00
166.00
129.00
51.00
38.oo
157.00
99.00
183.00
98.00
131.00
130.00
95.00
50.00
48.00
179.00
145.00
158.00
182.00
324.00
98.00
249.00
38.00
83.00
144.00
46.00

229

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FUND.

FUND.
General.
1912.
44.90
..
.
...
.........
..
422
No.
Aug. 14, Eagle Rock,
150.80
192 ..............
No.
Barbara,
Santa
14,
"
47.00
. ... ... . ............
" 14, Norwalk, No. 315224
319.40
..................
No.
14,
Bakersfield,
"
72.90
....................
" 14, Burbank, No. 406
313.75
21 ........ ......... ...
No.
14,
Hawaiian,
"
92.90
" 14, Keith, No. 187 .............. .. . . .. . ..
76.60
258
..
...........
.......
No.
Penrhyn,
14,
284.60
241
........
.
.
.
......
.
" 14, Santa Ana, No.
258.90
" 14, Fruitvale, No. 336 . ...... .. .. . . .. ..... 296.60
382 ..............
No.
Park,
Higihland
·
14,
"
95.00
76 ................
" 14, Bear Mountain, No.
43.40
32 . ...................
No.
Hill,
14,
Gold
"
77.90
96
.
............
.
.....
...
No.
" 14, Howard,
57.70
312 ..................
No.
Banos,
14,
Los
"
31.20
161
.......
.
.....
..
.....
" 14, Keystone, No.
78.10
376 ...... . .......
No.
Drake,
14,
Francis
"
26.~0
203
..................
14, Confidence, No.
73.40
302 ................
No.
Lucia,
Santa
14,
"
178.00
254
.....................
" 14, Reading, No.
71.60
" 14, Bolino, No. 150 ...... ...... .... ...... 144.20
146
........................
14, Abell, No.
169.20
156 ........... . .......
" 14, Woodland, No.
65.30
222
.......
..
.
..
..........
14, Granite, No.
41.10
417
...
.
.
.................
No.
" 14, Clovis,
76.80
310
.
.......
.
.............
" 14, Sisson, No. 359 .............. ... ...
40.80
No.
" 14, Loyalton,
58.50
" 14, Hope, No. 234 .. . .................... 119.00
Oceanic,
No.
371
......................
" 14,
81.20
" 14, North Butte, No. 230 .... .. ... .........
59.00
101
..
.
.........
.
...........
" 14, Clay, N-0.
34.40
..................
266
No.
East,
North
" 14,
93.80
287
...
.
...
....
.....
" 14, Winnedumah, No.
277.70
246 .. ... . ............. . .
" 14, Pomona, No.
256.80
" 14, Long Beach, No. 327 . ... ..............
107.10
Dunsmuir,
No.
297
....
......
..
......
.
.
" 14,
66.20
Madre,
No.
408
................
" 14, Sierra
19.10
398
............
.
.........
" 14, Fowler, No.
43.00
" 14, Orosi, No. 383 .. . .. . ......... . ........
75.70
" 14, Gardena, No. 372 .. . ..... .. ......... .
61.60
364 ......................
No.
Olivet,
14,
"
62.70
325
........
....
........
No.
" 14, Consuelo,

Home.
31.00
142.00
50.00
286.00
51.00
305.00
101.00
74.00
274.00
181.00
254.00
100.00
46.00
81.00
43.00
28.00
59.00
27.00
66.00
160.00
64.00
128.00
178.00
57.00
29.00
72.00
42.00
55.00
120.00
68.00
60.00
36.00
92.00
283.00
252.00
99.00
58.00
19.00
40.00
63.00
54.00
63.00

General.
1912.
42.10
Aug. 14, Maxwell, No. 288 ..... ... .... . .......
58.40
" 14, Tuscan, No. 261 ......................
182.60
103
......................
14,
Oroville,
No.
"
66.00
" 14, Calaveras, No. 78 ....................
" 14, Madison, No. 23 ..............••..... 128.00
56.40
" 15, Glendora, No, 404 . . ........ ..... .....
94.80
" 15, Burlingame, No. 400 .................•
64.50
" 15, Rising Light, No. 397 ............. . ...
" 15, Balder, No. 393 .. ........... ........ . 176.60
71.80
" 15, Imperial, No. 390 .. . " .. .. . . ..........
82.20
" 15, Palos Verdes, No. 389 .. .... ...... .. ..
" 15, Richmond, No. 375 .................... 310.20
" 15, South Pasadena, No. 367 ............ 148.60
312.40
15, Berkeley, No. 363 ....................
79.50
" 15, Charity, No. 362 ......................
281.60
344
...
.....
.......
...
King,
No.
Starr
15,
"
95.70
" 15, San Fernando, No. 343 . . ... ...-. .... , ..
85.20
" 15, Carquinez, No. 337 . . . . ... .... . ... .....
" 15, Needles, No. 326 .............. .. . , .. ,. 134.30
69.80
15, Reedley, No. 304 ... .... ..... .. ........
27.00
" 15, Callayomi, No. 282 . ....... ....... .....
73.20
" 15, Janesville, No. 232 ....................
259.70
229
.....•••••.•....•..•••
No.
15,
Solano,
"
" 15, Speranza ltaliana, No. 219 ............ 189.20
" 15, Friendship, No. 210 .... ..... . . . ...... 268.20
" 15, Salinas, No. 204 .. . ... . ............... 136.60
" 15, Mendocino, No. 179 .. . ... ..... ....... 126.20
" 15, Hermann, No. 127 .................... 194.30
" 15, Pajaro, No. 110 .... .... .............. 115.10
" 15, Arcata, No. 106 ...................... 106.80
70.90
" 15, Natoma, No. 64 ... ... . ... . ..... ··· ···
47.50
" 15, George Washington, No. 62 ..........
28.00
" 15, Texas, No. 46 .....................•..
" 15, San Diego, No. 35 ..... ·..... .. .... .... 478.60
" 15, Yount, No. 12 . ...............•.•..... 161.40
" 15, San Jose, No. 10 .... . ................ 412.50
64.30
" 15, Alisa!, No. 321 ........................
165.40
Ontario,
No.
301.
,
...
,
...
,
...
,
.
,
,
,
,
,
,
.
15,
"
80.60
" 15, Traver, No. 294 ...... .. ....... . ......
37.00
No.
271
.•...•.......•
Snow
Mountain,
15,
"
" 15, Lodi, No. 256 ...... .......... . ....... 155.30
21.60
" 15, Drytown, ·No. 174 ........... •.• .. .. ...

Home.
29.00
56.00
174.00
70.00
130.00
46.00
92.00
55.00
144.00
62.00
68.00
238.00
144.00
286.00
65.00
234.00
73.00
88.00
107.00
52.00
30.00
58.00
223.00
188.00
258.00
144.00
128.00
207.00
119.00
112.00
71.00
45.00
30.00
424.00
156.00
395.00
57.00
136.00
64.00
30.00
147.00
24.00

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FUND.

1912.
General.
Aug. 15, Eden, No. 113 . .. . .. .. ..... .......... .
154.50
15, Acacia, No. 92 ................ .. ..... .
27.30
" 15, Honolulu, No. 409 . . . . .... ... . . . ..... .
143.25
"16,NavalNo.87 . .' . ..... . . .... ... .... .. .
402.00
" 16, Franklin, No. 143 .. ... ... ... ... ..... .
54.90
16, Paso Robles, No. 286 .... .... . .. ... .. .
53.30
" 17, Alhambra, No. 322 ... ............... .
309.80
17,Selma, No. 277 .... .. ... ... .. . . .. ..... .
100.00
17, Mountain View, No. 194 .... . ........ .
80.30
" 17, Fallbrook, No. 317 . . . ........... . .... .
36.10
19, Brentwood, No. 345 . . . .............. .
75.70
19, Fort Bragg, No. 361 . .... . .. .... .... . .
77.10
" 19, Alamo, No. 122 .... ... ... ........ . .. .
70.90
19, Lindsay, No. 416 ....... . ............ .
60.40
" 19, Tuolumne, No. 8 . . . .... . . .. ... . ..... .
128.00
" 20, Turlock, No. 395 ...... . .... . ..... .. . .
75.60
" 20, Cavite, No. 350 .......... : ...... .... .. .
74.25
" 20, South San Francisco, No. 212 .. .... . .
176.20
" 21, Oriental, No. 144 . ............. .... . .
337.80
" 21, Mariposa, No. 24 ....... . ...... . .... .
46.80
" 22, Vitruvius, No. 145 .................. . .
60.60
" 22, Santa Paula, No. 291 . . . .. .... . . ... . .
145.70
" 22, Waucoba, No. 413 . . . ..... . . ..... . ... .
40.10
" 22, Illinoistown, No. 51. ... .. ... . . . . . . .. .
51.70
" 23, Harmony, No. 164 ... . . .. . . ....... ... .
15.70
" 23, Eucalyptus, No. 243 .. .. .... ... . . .. .. .
95.00
" 23, Durant, No. 268 . ..... .. . . . . . .. .. .... .
397.40
" 24, Covelo, No. 231. .................... .
48.50
" 24, Lassen, No. 149 .................. . .. .
95.70
" 24, Elysian, No. 418 . . .. .. ... .. ... ....... .
138.20 .
" 26, Elsinore, No. 289
...
....
.
.....
..
...
.
.
52.70
1
" 26, San Miguel, No. 285 ..... .. ..... .. ... .
87.00
" 26, Calexico, No. 412 .. .. . . ... .... . ..... .
88.40
" 26, Corregidor, No. 386 .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . . .
146.50
" 29, Rose's Bar, No. 89 ............. ... .. .
60.00
" 29, Calistoga, No. 233 ................... .
84.50
" 30, Newville, No. 205 . . ... ..... . .. . . . .. . .
42.80
" 31, Redwood City, No. 168 ....... ,. .. . .... .
113.20
" 31, Madera, No. 280 .. .. .......... . ... .. . .
80.80
Sept. 2, Emmanuel, No. 318 . . .. : . ....... .. . . .
66.30
2, Galt, No. 267 .. ...... .. ..... . . . . .. . . . .
43.30
"
2, Guadalupe, No. 237 . . ... . .... .. .. . ... .
79.80

231
FUND.

Home.
125.00
27.00
151.00
350.00
61.00
57.00
222.00
100.00
77.00
29.00
63.00
79.00
71.00
46.00
140.00
54.00
71.00

178.00
362.00
52.00
54.00
123.00
29.00
. 53.00
13.00
90.00
418.00
45.00
103.00
88.00
43.00
70.00
56.00
98.00
50.00
75.00
43.00
108.00
82.00
57.00
37.00
62.00

1912.
Sept. 7, La Mesa, No. 407 ... .. . . ... . . . . . ... .. .
7, Y erba Buena, No. 403 .. .... .. ....... .
10, Yuba, No. 39 .. ....... . . ... ..... . . . . .
10, Visalia, No. 128 ... . ................. .
11, Veteran, No. 373 ...... .. .... ..... .. .
11, Ocean Park, No. 369 ..... .. . . ........ .
14, Sincerity, No. 132 ................... .
" 20, Eel River, No. 147 . .... . .... .. . . .. . . .
" 21, York, U. D ... . .. .. .... . ........ . . . .. .
" 25, Adin, No. 250 ............. . ........ . .
'' 26, Mon eta, No. 405 . .. ..... . . ... . ... . ... .
" 26, Chjno Valley, U . D . ... .. . . .. ... ..... .
" 28, Exeter, U . D .. . . . .. .... . ......... . .. .
" 28, Pittsbu,rg, U. D . ... . . . .. . . .. ........ .
'' 28, McCloud, U . D .. .. . .. .. . .. . ...... .. . .
Oct. 1, Midway, U. D ... ... .. .... ......... .. .
1, San Dimas, U. D ........ .. ..... .. . . . .
2, Roseville, U. D .. ...... ... . ..... . . . . . .
3, Holtville, U. D ... . . .... ..... ....... . .
3, Alpha, U. D ........ : ...... • . • . .......
3, Hammonton, U. D .... . . . . ... . .... . .. .

General.
57.40
139.60
79.50
141.80
164.90
194.70
37.80
131.40
50.00
52.40
315.80
51.00
74.70
48.10
28.50
90.40
108.30
33.80
44.30
48.30
35.80

Home.
46.00
114.00
85.00
142.00
141.00
173.00
42.00
116.00
30.00
46.00
192.00
30.00
43.00
29.00
25.00
36.00
47.00
32.00
27.00
37.00
22.00

$52,851.10

$48,315.00

General Fund . ...... .. . . .......... . $45,756.70
Representative Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,094.40

232

MOURNING PAGES

OF THE

3Jn il.emnrium.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

•

3Ju il.emnrium.

RICHARD STEPHEN CULVERWELL, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1. ....... Died Feb. 3, 1912, aged 56

WILLIAM GORHAM DOOLITTLE, P. M.
Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44 . . Died Nov. 30, 1911, aged 90

WILLIAM THOMAS FONDA, P. M. ,
California Lodge No. 1. ....... Died May 14, 1912, aged 80

GAYLORD SMITH WESLEY TWOGOOD, P. M.
Forbestown Lodge, No. 50 .. Died March 29, 19i2, aged 83

WILLIAM JAMES GOLCHER, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1. ... Died April 14, 1912, aged 55

JOHN WESLEY BROWN, P. M.
Vesper Lodge, No. 84 ....... . Died Sept. 13, 1911, aged 66

GEORGE LYMAN GRIMES, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1. ...... . Died May 4, 1912, aged 52

HENRY CHARLES RICHART, P. M.
Vesper Lodge, No. 84 ..... . . . Died July 9, 1912, aged 79

GEORGE JOHNSON, PAST GRAND SECRETARY.
California Lodge, No. 1 .... . ... Died Oct. 10, 1911, aged 68

JAMES WATERS, P. M.
Pajaro Lodge, No. 110 ........ Died Aug. 11, 1911, aged ..

WHEELER ALLEN, P. M.

San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 .. Died June 14, 1912, aged 63

EDWARD FRANCIS WYCKOFF, P. M.
Pajaro Lodge, No. 110 ...... Died April 16, 1912, aged

NIELS IVERSON, P. M.
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30 . . .. Died June 15, 1912, aged 82

GEORGE MILLER, P. M.
Chico Lodge, No. 111. ........ . Died Jan. 12, 1912, aged 76

WILLIAM JOHN DOUGLAS, P. M.
Martinez Lodge, No. 41. .. . .. Died, Jan. 22, 1912, aged 76

EDWARD LULL BALLOU, P. M.
Clinton Lodge, No. 119 ........ Died Oct. 11 19111 aged 55

CHARLES PRAGER, P. M.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 .. . Died Sept. 14, 1911, aged 75

THADIUS ALONZO JONES, SR., P. M.
Clinton Lodge, No. 119 ....... . Died Jan. 25, 1912, aged 79

233

234

MOURNING PAGES

OF

THEl

Jn .tall.eutnriam.
PHILLIP DAVIS, P. M.
Fidelity Lodge, No. 120 ....... Died July 29, 1912, aged 85

GEORGE MEDANICH, P. M.
Table Mt. Lodge, No. 124 .... Died Dec. 31, 1911, aged 70

HENRY CALDWELL WHITE, P. M.
Table Mt. Lodge, No. 124 .... Died March 8, 1912, aged 72

CHARLES FITCH GRANT, P. M.
Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129 .... Died April 15, 1912, aged 46

SAMUEL B. FERGUSON, P. M.
· Lodge, N o. 133 . ... · . D"ed
April 6, 1912 , aged 79
Yosemite
1

HENRY EVERSOLE, P. M.
Vacaville Lodge, No. 134 .... Died March 21, 1912, aged 79

CHARLES JAMES KING, P. M.
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ........ Died May 5, 1912, aged 67

GEORGE PENLINGTON, P. M.
.Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ...... Died April 30, 1911, aged 69

MARK LEVINSKY, P. M.

Pacific Lodge, No. 136 .......... Died Jan. 5, 1911, aged · ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3/u jl.emnriam.
GEORGE CLARK PEART, P. M.
Grafton Lodge, No. 141. ....... Died Nov. 31 1911, aged 40

WILLIAM ALEXANDER JOHNSTON, P. M.
Franklin Lodge, No. 143 ..... Died Aug .. 141 1911, aged 52

JOHN BELL, P. M.
Oriental Lodge, No. 144 ........ Died July 3, 1912, aged 83

M!CAJAH ANDERSON THOMAS, P. M.
Abell Lodge, No. 146 ........ Died July 29, 1912, aged 65

GEORGE SCOTT BLACK, P. M.
Harmony Lodge, No. 164 ...... Died May 13, 1912, aged 62

ALEXANDER BARACK VON WEFELSBURG, P. M.
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166 .... Died April 24, 1912, aged 67

JOHN ALEXANDER APPERSON, P. M.
Mission Lodge, N6. 169 ..... : .Died Oct. 29, 1911, aged 79

WILLIAM EDMOND PRICE, P. M .
Mission Lodge, No. 169 ...... Died Sept. 25, 1911, aged 71

JOHN WAGNER, P. M.
Mission Lodge, No. 169 ....... Died Nov. 22, 1911, aged 64

235

236

MOURNING PAGES

OF

THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3Jn :!ltrmnriam.

lln !llllrmnriam.
EDWARD S. LIPPITT, P. M.

Petaluma Lodge, No. 180 ...... Died May 3, 1912, aged 88

THOMAS WALTER GUTHRIE, P. M.

Buckeye Lodge, No. 195 . . .... Died May 10, 1912, aged 82

CHARLES HENBY DUNSMOOR, P. M.

Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 .... Died March 20, 1912, ~ged 62

ASHER PARK BROWN, P. M.

A~hens Lodge,

HENRY HAMIL, P. M.
No. 228 ......... Died Oct. 5, 1911, aged 78

PUTNAM M. CATE, P. M.
Hope Lodge, No. 234 ... . ...... Died Nov. 1, 1911, aged 74

· ALEX. MUNROE WILLIAMS, P. M.
Hill's Ferry Lodge, No. 236 ... Died Jan. 29, 1912, aged 55

MARION ALBERT MENGES, P . M.
Santa Ana Lodge, No. 241. .... Died May 3, 1912, aged , ,

Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ..... Died Oct. 14, 1911, aged 76

HENBY JOSEPH LLOYD, P. M.

WILLIAM SMALLEY, P. M.
Santa Ana Lodge, No. 241.,,, .Died Jan. 8, 1912, aged , •

Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ..... Died Oct. 21, 1911, aged 74

WILLIAM LARKIN WOODROW, P. M.

Friendship Lodge, No. 210 .... Died Oct. 10, 1911, aged 76

JOHN HENRY EICKHOFF, P. M.

Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215 .... Died Oct. 11, 1911, aged 67

GEORGE EDWIN KENNEDY, P. M.
Mosaic Lodge, No. 218 ........ Died June 23, 1912, aged 65

EDWIN LYMAN SARGEANT, P. M.

Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 .... Died March 19, 1912, aged 48

HENRY BERNARD SCHINDLER, P. M.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 ....•. Died Jan. 24, 1912, aged 64

MOSES HOCHHEIMER, P. M.
Laurel Lodge, No. 245 ........ Died Nov. 11, 1911, aged 57

WILLIAM CLAIBORNE MARTIN, P. M.
Pomona Lodge, No. 246 ....... Died Feb. 25, 1912, aged 87

HORATIO WALLACE SANBORN, P. M.
Lodi Lodge, No. 256 ......... Died Sept. 13, 1911, aged 78

237

238

MOURNING PAGES

OF

THE

3Jn ittmnriam.
GEORGE CHARLES DAWSON, P. M.
King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260 .. Died July 4, 1912, aged 85

WILLIAM PARK KEMP, P . M.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264 . . .... Died Feb. 22, 1912, aged 81

JAMES WILLIAM TREADWELL, P. M.
Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269 .. Died Jan. 11, 1912, aged 80

WILLIAM BILLINGS CLAPP, P. M.
Pasadena Lodge, No. 272 ..... Died Dec. 27, 1911, aged 50

DAVIDS. SNODGRASS, P. M.
Selma Lodge, No. 277 ..... .. . Died AprH13, 1912, aged 49

JAMES ROBERT DUPUY, P. M.
So. California Lodge, No. 278 .. Died May 10, 1912, aged 81

JAMES WHEATON HENRY, P. M.
So. California Lodge, No. 278 .. Died Nov. 26, 1911, aged 56

THOMAS JAMES LOVELACE, P. M.
Hanford Lodge, No. 279 . ..... Died Sept. 24, 1911, aged 77

HAROLD JAMES FROTHINGHAM, P. M.
Elsinore Lodge, No. 289 ...... Died S~pt. 29, 1911, aged 53

GRAND LODGE OF CAJ.,,IFORNIA

3ht 11.rmnriattt.
ALLESSANDRO LUCIANI BARLI, P. M.
Liberty Lodge, No. 299 ........ Died Aug. 5, 1911, aged 83

ROBERT GRAY, P. M.
Ontario Lodge, No. 301. ..... Died March 28, 1912, aged 47

ALBERT DEAN MOORE, P. M.
Ontario Lodge, No. 301. . ..... Died Dec. 27, 1911, aged 67
PETER TOURNOT, P. M.
Tehachapi Lodge, No. 313 ..... Died Dec. 16, 1911, aged 82
ALEXANDER GRAY, P. M.
South G~te Lodge, No. 320 ... Died Dec. 20, 1911, age<i 83
LEANDER WARREN FRARY, P. M.
Corona Lodge, No. 324 .... , ... Died Oct. 25, 1911, aged 86
WALLACE KENDALL GAYLORD, P. M.
Corona Lodge, No. 324 •..... Died March 19, 1912, aged ..
ALVIN DELOS DUNN, P. M.
Consuelo Lodge, No. 325 ........ Died Jan. 3, 1912, aged 61
LEE .Al,LEN PARKINSON, P. M.
Manila Lodge, No. 342 ........ Died Sept. 6, 1911, aged 33
OLIN EUGENE SMITH, P. M.
Moneta Lodge, No. 405 ...... Died April 18, 1912, aged 42

AMENDMENTS

240

GRAND · LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

241

:-i ' ), shall no longer be applicable to such Lodge or Lodges.

AMENDMENTSTOCONSTITUTIOK
Adopted October, 1912.
\ 28.

Standing Committees.

The following standing .committees, to consist of five members
each, shall be appointed by the Grand Master at each Annual Communication, just before the close, viz: On Jurisprudence, on Finances,
on Accounts, on Grievances, on Correspondence, on Returns, on Pay of
Members, on Credentials, and on Library, the duties of which committees shall continue during the year thereafter, and shall cease at the
close of the next succeeding Annual Communication.
32a.

Committee on Library (New).

All members of the Committee on Library shall be residents of
t'he Bay counties, and it shall be their duty to meet at the Library of
the Grand Lodge once each month and on the call of the Chairman.
They shall have general supervision over the library, make and enforce
all rules relative to the care and loaning of books, and they shall have
the power to incur the necessary incidental expenditures with the
permission of the Grand Master.
41. Contributions, What Shall Be Levied.

2d. For each Master Mason borne upon its roll at the date of its
annual report, the sum of seventy-five cents; together with such sum as
the Grand Lodge shall appropriate at each Communication for the
support of the Masonic Homes of California; provided, that in addition to the sums herein mentioned, each of said Lodges shall contribute as annual dues the. further sum of fifty cents for each Master
Mason borne upon its roll at the date of its annual report, the sum
thus raised to constitute a building fond for said homes.
92a.

Jurisdiction of Lodges (New).

If it be made to appear to the Grand Lodge that special circumstances require that in the case of any particular Lodge ol' Lodges
the general rules as to the territory over which such Lodge or Lodge$
shall have jurisdiction should not apply, the Grand Lodge may by
resolution define · the territory over which such Lodge or Lodges shall
have jurisdiction. When such a resolution is adopted, the Lodge or
Lodges therein named shall thenceforth have exclusive jurisdiction
over the territory therein described, and shall have no jurisdiction,
exclusive or concurrent, over any other territory, or over any Mason
not a member of said Lodge or Lodges, residing outside of such
territory. The provisions of Section 6, Article II, Part III (Section

No such
•>lution shall be adopted except upon the recommendation of the
I.rand Mast<:r, and after reference to the Committee on Jurisprudence
nnd report thereon. Notice of the application for any such resolution
with a pr:cise statement ~f the boundaries of the proposed territory:
1h~ll be given by the applicant Lodge or Lodges at least thirty days
Pl 1or to the commencement of the annual communication of the Grand
I. ld.ge at .which the same is to be made, to each Lodge whose jurischct10n will be affected by the proposed resolution. Such resolution
inny be repealed or modified at any subsequent annual communication
•>f ~he ~rand Lodge; provided, that no modification enlarging the
lcrntory included shall be adopted except upon compliance with all the
1 rmditions prescribed for an original resolution.
As Jong as such
resolution continues in force, the provisions of this section shall,
ns to such Lodge or Lodges, be paramount to all other provisions of
this Constitution in the matter of jurisdiction.
I·

I 29a.

Saloon-Keepers Ineligible (New).

No Lo~ge. shall receive an application for the degrees of Masonry,
or for affihation, from any one who is engaged, either as principal,
agent or employe, in the saloon business (except in connection with
and ~s part of, the operation of a bona fide hotel or restaurant), 0 ;
who is a barkeeper; and any Mason who may hereafter enter upon and
engage .in the sal.oon b.usiness, either as owner, agent, or employe,
except m connection with and as part of the operation of a bona
fide hotel or restaurant, or who shall become a barkeeper shall be
deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall, upon due' trial and
conviction of said offense, forfeit all Masonic rights and privileges,
including membership in any Lodge.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT TO THE CONSTITUTION
(To be called up at the annual communication in 1913.)
Resolved, That Section 129a of the Constitution be amended to read
as follows:
. Sec. 129a. No Lodge shall receive an application for the degrees
of Masonry, or for affiliation, from any one who is engaged either as
principal, agent or employe, in the saloon business; and any Mason
who may hereafter enter upon and engage in the saloon business, either
as owner, agent or eniploye, s'hall be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct, and shall upon due trial and conviction of said offense forfeit all
Masonic rights and privileg.es, including membership in ~ny Lodge,
except when acting under order of any Court.
16

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

·I

County.

·j

California . . . . . . . 1 San 1!'rancisco • . .... \San Francisco .. . .. .
W estem Star. . . . . 2 Shasta .............. Shasta .•.... . ......
Tehama . . . . . . . • . 3 Sacramento •.•..... !Sacramento ....... .
Benicia . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ............ !Solano ............ .
Tuolumne . . . . . . . -8 Sonora ...... .. .... · \Tuolumne ......... .
Corinthian . . . . • . 9 Marysville ......... Yuba ...........•..
San Jose •....... 10 San Jose .......... Santa Clara ....•...
Yount .........•. 12 Napa .............. ,Napa .•.••..•.••.•.
Nevada ....... . . 13 :Nevada City . . ..... \Nevada ........... .
Temple .......... 14 Sonoma ............ Sonoma ........•..•
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn .....•..... Placer ........ , .•••
Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco ...... san Francisco ..... .
Mountain Shade . . 18 Downieville .. . ..... 1Sierra ..... . ...... .
San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ... ... .... · [San Joaquin ....... .
Washington .. . ... 20 Sacramento .. . ..... Sacramento . ...... .
Hawaiian ..... . . 21 Honolulu, H. T . ..... \Hawaiian Ter . ..... .
Occidental ..... . . 22 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ..... .
Madison ......... 23 Grass Valley ....... 1Nevada : .......... .
Mariposa ..... . .. 24 Mariposa ..... . ..... Mariposa .. ... ...... .
Georgetown ... .. 25 <ieorgetown . . . ..... 1El Dorado .. . ..•....
Palmyra ... .. . . . . 26 Placerville . . ....... El Dorado ..... . .... .
Trinity .......... 27 Weavervill.e ..•... _.·\Trinity .._..........
Golden Gate ..... 30 San Francisco .• : ... Sau FranClllCO •• , •••

z

Town.

Places of Location.

"

"
"
"
"

..

"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
20
"
"
"
"
"

I

·1

"

"

''

"

"2,
"
"

"

"
"

1856.

8,

"

"
1855.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
4,
1,

"
"

"
"
"

2,

"
"3,

"

It

"
"
"
"

1855.

••3, ""

"

"
"

"

3,

"

"
"

"
"

"

1854.

"
"
"

"

"
"
"5,

"

7,
3,

,,
"6,
"
"

"

"

"
5', · 1853.

7,
5,

Nov.
May

May

"
"

27,

Nov.

"
6,
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1851,
"
"
"
1852.
"

"
"
"'

"
"
"

1850.

19,

April

Da te when Charter
was Ordered.

"°"' Gold Hill • . . . . . • . 32 Lincoln .... ... ..... Placer •..• . . • .•..•• ...~ ~
25
Ophir · . . ....... . . 33 Murphy's .. .... .... Calav eras . . ....... .
26 San Diego . . . . . . . 35 San Diego .. . . . . . .. San Diego . .. ... .. .
"
1
27 St. John's . . ..... 37,Yreka
"
.............. 1Siskiyou ... . ... . .. . May
28 Santa Cruz .... . . 38 Santa Cruz ......... 1Santa Cruz .. · . · · · ·
29 Yuba ........ . .. 39;Marysville ......... \Yuba •.............
"
30 Sacramento ...... 401Sacramento ........ Sacramento .......•
"
31 Martinez ........ 411Martinez ........... 1Contra Costa .....••
"
32 Los Angeles ..... 421Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... •
"
33 Hiram .......... 43 1El Dorado .... . ..... El Dorado ........ ••
"
34 Mount Moriah ... 44 1San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
"
35 Crescent ........ 45 ,Crescent City ....... Del Norte .... --~ ...•
"
36 Texas ........... 46 San Juan ..... . .... San Benito .. . ......•
"
1
37 Forbestown •. . ... 50,Forbestown
"
.. . ..... Butte ..••...•.....•
38 lli"inoistown ..... 51 Colfax ............. Placer •..... . .....•
"
39 Suisun . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun ............. Solano ............•
"
40 Volcano ......... 56 1 \'olcano ........ . ... Amador •.•..•.....•
"
41 Santa Rosa . . . . . . 57 Santa Rosa .. . ...... Sonoma ...........•
"
42 Union •.•.. . '. .. . . 58[Sacramento . ....... Sacramento .......•
"
.
"
43 Gravel Range ... 59 Camptonville ....... Yuba .............•
44 Plumas . . . . . . . . . . 60 1Quincy ............ Plumas ...........•
"
45 Live Oak . . . . . . . . 61 Oakland ............ Alameda .... . ..... .
"
46 Geo. Washington .. 62 Chinese Camp ...... Tuolumne ......... .
"
47 Natoma .. . .. .. .. 64 Folsom .. • .... . ..... Sacramento .... . .. .
"
48 Amador ......... 65 Jackson ......•..... Amador ........... .
"
49 Forest · . . . . . . . . . . 66 Alleghany •.....•..• Sierra .•.... . .....•
50 Morning Star ..... 68 Stockton •.........• 1Stockton .... . .....•
"
51 Enterprise ...... • 70 Yuba City .•••••.• ·jSutter ............ .
"
52 Bear Mountain ..• 76 Angel's Camp . . .... Calaveras .•.......•
53 Calaveras .•.....•• 78 San Andreas ....... Calaveras •........•
"
54 Humboldt ....... 79 Eureka ............ Humboldt .........•
"
55 Ione • • ........•. · 80 Ione • .............. 1. Amador ....... · . · • July
56 Yolo .....•...•.. 81 Yolo ............... Yolo ••.•..•.......• May
57 Rising Star. . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill •.•...... Placer •..........•.
1

10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

9

5
6
7
8

4

1
2
·3

Ne.mes of Lodges .

..,...
.0
s::l

,J

~

50
5
50 .... ..
50 .. ·... .
50 ... _.
50
5
50
8
50
6
50 ..... .
30 ;·····
30 ·· ····
30
5

50
4
100
3
30 ... .. .
50
1
50 ..... .
75 10
50 .... . .
50 10
30
1
7
101
50
6
30
1
30 .. ... .
30 ..... .
30 ..... .
30
5
75
5
75 10
30 ..... .
50
5
75 10

75. 10

ggl····~

Q)

"'

,.,.;
"'0

$>=

<

8
6
6
6
6

61

24

6
6

9
9

'·
6
6
6
6
6

12
12

Ul

Hi5
34

53

38

·312
49

210
160
100
70

71
77
38

45

70
669

29

233

98
28
277

324
78
30
33
53

364
29

85
180
107

112
216

424

,-,

486

57

197

N
(,>

-+>-

>

z

....

'=J
0
::ll

~

"1

t1
t'
0
t1
.Q
l:i:J
0

>
z

::ll

Q

:i::

51

...,
562
130
52

l:i:J

"1

305

0

U9

2ti';"

~

t'
0
tl
\!2

l:i:J

~...,

l:d
0
::ll
tl

q

"1
Ul

0

...,

t:Ul

175
67

N

..."'

.395
156

130

140

584
96
218
119

~"
~

1 ""'

~

JGO 20 12
50
6
6
75 10
6
30 .. ... . 12
50
2
6
50 .... . .
6
ij
50 ..... .
9
40 ······
6
50 ······
30
2 12
50 .. ... .
6
75
5 12
30 ..... .
6
50 ..... .
6
75 10
6
50
5 12
100 .... . .
91
53 ..... .
8
36
5
6
6
30 ..... .
6

<

~g
t;sj .2:p
~~
~~
i«A f><i!l

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 3 I, A. L. 591 2.

;:l

s
z
~wn . .

.1

Pluces of Location .

CountJ'.

109
110
111
112
. . 113
114
115
116
117

108

100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107

98
99

95
96
97

94

90
91
92
93

89

85
86
87
88

.1. ... '"•

• • • • • • • • ,,.,,.,.-

~c .F":'J.-

•

...... ......!.!:. .& ·~~

·-

~-

I

Nicolaus ......... 129 Wheatland ......... Ynba .............•
Woodbridge ...... 1311Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ....... .
Sincerity ..... . .. 132 Greenville ......... Plumas . . ......... .
Yosem.ite ..... . .. 133 Coulte!ville ........ Mariposa ......... ..
1
Vacaville ...... . . 13~V.acav1lle .......... ,Solano···:····'··
··
Valley ......... .. 13;:, Llilden ............. San J oaqulil ...... .
Pacific •......... 136 San Franci.Bco ....•. San Francisco ..... .
Crockett ......... 139 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale ....... .. Sonoma" ........... .
Grafton ......... 141 Grafton ............ Yolo .........·.... ..
Franklin ........ . 143 Courtland •.......... 1Sacramento ....... .
Oriental ......... 144 San Francisco ...... san Francisco .....•
Vitruvius ........ 145 Bloomfield .......... 1Sonoma ........... .
Abell ...•........ 146 Ukiah :-. ............ 1Mendocino ...• . ..••
Eel River .. . .... . 147 Rohnerville ........• Humboldt .......•••
Lassen ...•...... 149 .Susanville ........•. jLassen ...........••
Molino .......... 150 Tehama •.......... . Tehama .. . .......•.
Woodland ........ 156 Woodland .......... Yolo .............. .
Keystone ........ 161 Milton ............. Calaveras ......... .
Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City ......... Sierra ...........••
Excelsior ..... . .. 166 San Francisco •....• San Francisco .....•
Alameda ..........167 Centreville ....•.... Alameda •.........•
Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ...••• San Mateo . : ...... .
Mission .......... 169 San Francisco ...••• /San Francisco
Elk Grove ....... 173 Elk Grove ......•..• !Sacramento .......•
Drytown ........ 174 Drytown •... . .••.•. Amador •••.......••
Antioch ...... .. . 175 Antioch .. . ....•...• Contra Costa ...•.••
Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino .•.•. 1San Bernardino •..• ~
Mendocino ....... 179 Mendocino •..•.....•,Mendocino .•.....• ;
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma .••.•..•.. Sonoma ••........• ,
Russian River .... 181 Windsor ..•••.••••• Sonoma •.......... ;
Meridian ........ 182 Arbuckle • . . . . . • . • • Colusa ••• • ......•••

Visalia ••....•.•. 128 Visalia •.•••••.•..•• Tulare •.••••..•••••

i~~:-

I

58 Vesper ........... 84 RedB1u:ff ~ ....... · JTehama ........... .
59 Naval ........... 81 Vallejo ............ Solano ............ .
60 Rose's Bar ....... 89 Bmartsville ......... Yuba ........ . .... .
61 North Rtar ...... 91 Fort Jones ........ . Siskiyou .......... .
62 Acacia . . . . . . . . . . 92 Coloma .......... . .. El Dorado .. .. . .... .
63 St. Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ......... Napa ............. .
64 Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ... .. ... Amador .......... ..
65 Howard . . . . . . . . . 96 Yreka .... . ........ Siskiyou .......... .
66 Jefferson ........ 97 La Porte ........... ,Plumas .. . ...... . . .
67 Hornitos ......... 98 Hornitof! ........... Mariposa ......... ..
68 La Grange . . . . . . . 99 Merced ............ Merced •...........
69 Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer ............ .
70 Oroville .. . .... . . 103 Oroville ............ Butte ............. .
71 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles ....... .
72 Arcata ... . ..... . 106 Arcata ...... .. ..... Humboldt . ........ .
73 Pajaro .......... 110 Watsonville ........ Santa Cruz ....... ..
74 Chico ........... 111 Chico .............. Butte •... • .........
75 Summit ......... 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus ......... .
76 Eden ..... .. ..... 113 San Leandro ...... ' Alameda ........ . . .
77 Concord ..... . . . . 117 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ....... .
78 Clinton ... . ...... 119 Igo ................ Shasta ... . ... • .....
79 Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco . ..... San Francisco ..... .
80 Alamo .......... . . 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa •.....•
81 Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma ......... . ..
82 Table Mountain .. ,124 Cherokee ...... • .... Butte ...•..•. • .... .
83 La Fayette ..... . 126 Sebastopol .... . ... . Sonoma . ·......... ..

Names of Lodges

.,.0.;....
9,

"
"

May

"
"

" "
12, 1865.

"
Oct.

"
"
"

"

"
1863.
"
1864.
"
"

"
"
"
"
IO, 1867.

..

"
"

11,

"
13,
"

14,

15, 1862.

"

Oct.

"

"

17,

"
" "
" "
13, 1865.

"

''
"

1861.

"

"

"

"

1860.

"

-- ..
"
1859.
"
"

~

"

"
"

"

"
"
May
"
May
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

16,

"
"
"

"

"
"

"

11,
10,

May

"

"
"

1-t,

13,
13,

"
May
"
"

"
"
"n

"
"
"
"
"
1858.

..
"
13,

"
"
"
"
15,

"

1857.
14,

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
15,

"

1856.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

May

"

"
"

"
"
"
May
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
May

"

May

Date when Charter
was Ordered.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

gg ·····5

-<

~~

J>.el

~

-<

~
~

6
6
6
6
6
9
6
6
6
6
6
6

10
I

3
I)

40

30
30

1

1

30 ......

50

50

5
JO
40 ......
50
5

1

50

100

10
2

100
50

30 2~
30
5

50 ......

30 .... ..
50 ..... .
50
l
50
1

75
30

30 ......
30 5
50
I

30
5
30 ······
30 ... .. .
30 .. .. ..
75
5
75
(i

6
9
6
6
6
6
6
6

12
12

12

12

,,
6
6
9
6
6
9
12
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
6
6
6
12
6

5

6
6
6
6

12

6
6
6
6

12

!l

6

30 ......

50

30
5
501 1
40 ·······

10
5
10

50 ······

75
50
100

50 2Yz

501 JO3
50
50
1
50 . 5

I ~g1·····f 126

50
5
35
5
30
5
30
1
40 .... ..
30
1
30
6
30
5
i 501··· ···

I

I

i'<A

-i;,
$.,
1

.,

A

l ~i _..,~.~ ~

t:

en

lt'I

44

75

233
128
210

24
94

98
108
885
71

13
404

28

178

64

116
103

128

54

28
61
362

55

373

613

40

128

42
13

85

-·-

108
46
499
71
157
63
125

125

33

~

~

~

+
(n

>

z

:;:i

0

~

a

0

"'.I

l".I

Q

t"
0
ti

z
ti

>

l".I

8

0
"'.I

216

119

~en

t"
0
ti

tr.I

8

>

~z

0

en
C1
to

0

"'.I

8

112

60
174
84

98

81
47
36

5\l

50
52
'J7
95

350

157

)l)j

~~

,..;

s~

I\)

+
+

'"~

I
Couufy

...
'

..;

~

- - ...... _ -·

··········
············

I

14,

14,

1

''
Oct.

"
I Oct,

····· ·······

...........

. ............
·············
..........

"
"
"
"
"

1876.

"

"

"

"
"
Oct.
"

" "
" "
IO, 1878.
"
"
" "

1876.
1877.

12,
ll,

"

14,
12,

"
"
"
1875.

"
"

1873.

"
"
"
"
"
"
1874.
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

16,

"

"
"
"
18,
"
"
"
"

"

" cc
" "
"
"
11, 1872.

,, ''
,," "''
" "
14 ' 1871.

1869.
18_70.

"

''
"
14,
''
"
''"
"
''
'·'
"
"

"15,

15,

"
.,
"
1868.
"
1868.
"
"
1869.
"
''
"
"
"
"
''

1867.

Oct.
Oct.

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

"
"

''
"
''

"
''

"
''
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
'"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
''
"
''
"
''
Oct.
"

10,

was Ordered.

Date when Charter

Oct.

······· ·· ·····

Clear Lake .. .... 183 Lower Lake ... . .... Lak.e~:~.-...~
Sierra Valley . . .. 184 Sierraville ......... Sierra ............•
Claiborne ........ 185 Point Arena ........ Mendocino . : •......
Evening Star .. .. 186 Etna Mills ......•.• Siskiyou .. . ....... .
Keith ..... . ..... 187 Gilroy ............• Sant a Clara ...... . .
Oakland .. ..... . . 188 Oakland ........... Alameda .......... .
N ortbern Light ... 190 Millville ....... . ..• Shasta ............ .
Mari ..... . . . .... 191 San ~afael ......... Marin ............ .
Santa Buba ra .... 192 Santa Barbara ..... Santa Barbara .... .
Ferndale . . ...... ..1931Ferndale .........•• Humboldt ...• . .....
Mountain View ... 194 Mounta!P View ..• .• Santa Clara .. . ....•
Buckeye ... . ..... 195 Winters ... . ....... Yolo ..............•
San Simeon ... . . . 196 Cambria .... . ...... San Luis Obispo ... .
Wilmington . ..... 198 Wilmington .. . ..... Los Angeles . . ... . . .
Hartley .... . .. .. . 199 Lakeport .......... Lake ............. .
Truckee . . ....... 200 Truckee ............!Nevada .... .. ..... .
Silveyville ..·. . .... 201 Dixon ............. Solano ·: ........... .
Pentalpba . .. .... 202 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
Confidence . . .. . . . 203 Castroville ......... IMonterey ......... .
Salinas .. . .. .... . 204 Salinas ............ Monterey .. . . . .... .
Newville . . . . .... 205 Paskenta ......... ... Tehama . .. .. . . .... . .
Stanislaus ... . . .. 206 Modesto ........... Stanislaus ......... .
Anaheim ... , . . . . 207 Anaheim ........... Orange •...........•
Rio Vista .... . .. . 208 Rio Vista .. . ........ Solano ............•
King David 'e . .. ..209 San Luis Obispo ..... ,San Luis Obispo .... .
Friendship ... .. .. 210 San Jose •....•..••• !Santa Cl~ra .. : .....

iI

.;

H6 '
entura • . . . . . . . . . . . entura •.•.••••••.•
"·147 Oak Grove ....... 215 Alameda . . . . . . . . . . Alameda ......•....
148 Doric ............ 216 San Francisco ...... , San F rancisco ... .. .
149 Monte rey .. . ..... 217 Monterey ...... . . . . Monterey ...•.....•
150 Mosa ic ....... . . . 218 Livermore .... .. .... Alameda ...........
151 Speranza Italian a. 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... •
152 Downey . .. ...... 220 Downey ............ Los Angeles ....... ·•
153 Inyo . . ..... . . . . . 221 Independence .. . .... 1,Inyo .............••
154 Granite . .. ....... 222 Rocklin ....... . ..•. Placer ............ •
155 Bakersfield ...... 224 Bakersfield ·- ....... K ern •..... • ..... . .
156 Brooklyn .... . ... 225 East Oakland ....... Alameda ...•......•
157 San Mateo . .... . 226 San Mateo ........ . San Mateo .........
158 · Athens ..... . .... 228 Davisville
Yolo . ..............
159 Solano .. . . ....... 229 \<allejo •........ . ... Solano .•.........••
160 North Butte .... . 230 Gridley
Butte
161 Covelo ........... 231 Covelo .......... . .. Mendocino
••'·······
162 Janesville . . ..... 232 Janesville .......... Lassen .......
........
163 Calistoga .. . ..... 233 Calistoga
Napa .. : ...•......•
····
······
164 Hope . . .. .. ..... . 234 Beckwith
Plumas
165 Surprise Valley .. .. 235 Cedarville ...... . ... Modoc
166 Hill's Ferry .•... 236 Newman ..... . ..... Stanislaus
167 Guadalupe ..... . . 237 Guadalupe ......... Santa .Barbara ....•
168 Colusa' ........... 240 Colusa ............. Colusa . . ..... . ...••
169 Santa Ana .... ... 241 Santa Ana ... . ..... Orange ............•
170 Magnolia ........ 242 Santa Barbara . ..... Santa Barbara .....,
171 Eucalyptus ....... 243 llaYl'Vards ..•....... Alameda ..... . ....•
172 Alcatraz ....... . . 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda ..........•
173 Laurel .. .. ....... 245 Willows
Glenn ........ .......
174 Pomona . ...... .. 246 Pomona ..... . . ·..... Los Angeles . .....••
175 Fresno .. . ..... .. 247,Fresno . ......... . .. Fresno ...........••
176 Alturas . . ........ 248 Alturas •.....•..... Modoc ..........•••
177 Adin ........... . 250 Adin .........•.... Modoc ......•.••. • •

118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
:j.43

Names of Lodges.

Places of Location.

Llst of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

35

I

3
50

1
30 ......

30

5o

()

50

50 .. ....
50
1
50
3
30 ·· ·•··
50 .... ..

35 ······

......

35 ......
30 ······
50
1
30
4
50 10
30
1
50

6

6
6
6
6
6
6
12
6
6

8
6
6

6

6

12
6
6
12
9

{I

30 ······
50
6

12

75 ......

6

12
6
12
12
6
6

6
6
6
6
6
6
9
6
9

9

6
6
6
6
9

6.

6
9

9
12
6
12

6

12

6
6

1

50 ······
75
5

50 2~

100 25
50
5
50 ... ...
75 10
30 ......
50
1

75

50 ... ...

50 · ·· ···
50 ··· ···
50 ······
. 30 . .. .. .
30
5
30 ..... .
50 ... .. .
30 ..... .
60
5
60
5
75 20
40 .... . .
40 ······
35
1
50 .. ... .
50 ······
50
1
35
1

1
3

50
50

1

30 ... .. .
30 .. ... .
45 ··· ·· ·

so; ..... .

~

~ ~ ~6

..

., .. ~.~

~ ~ .S·3 ~
,.ci

.;

t;

.

312
66
46

28~

45
58
75
55
48
5J
62
79
274
93
90
374
98

68

458
97
93
188
79
56
fi2
286
306
139
76
223

~-

·-~

258

76
57
183

&')

43

144

p::

~

~

......

'->

;..

z
....

0
::0

"l

.....

>
t"'

(')

".l

l'J
0

8

t"'
0

t;

0
::0

l%J

>-3

l%J

0
".I

115
73
503
27

0

rn

44

t"'
0

l%J

>i

z>

t;

0
::0

d
t:c

rn

0
".I

>-3

t"'

'rn""

107

26
37
50
37
101
540
75
217
142
95
77
81
38

:::.~

,....;

.s.."'0u,"'

~

~

t\)

!I
Town.

I

Places of Location.

Countr.

204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237

········ .....

.... .......

...........

,,
"
1885.
''

12,

"
"
11,
,,
"
16,
''
16,
,,
"
16,
''

"
"
Oct.
,,
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
,,

''

"

"

"
"
"
Oct.

OeL
Oct.

"
""

"

Oct.

..........

.... ..... .....

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"

"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"

"
"
"
1893.
"
"
"

1892.

12,

"
"
"
11,
"
"
"

"
"
"
1890.
"
"
"
"
"
1891.
"
"
"
1891.

"
"
"
16,
"
"
"
"
"14,
"
"
"
14,

"
" "
10, 1889.
" "

"
"
"
1888.
"
"
"

"
"
"
11,
"
"

"-

1886.

1~

'l .

14,

"
''
."

''
"
1883.
,,
"
1884.
''
1884.

1881.
1882.

"

Oct.

"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
1880.
"
"

"
"
"
15,
"
"
"
15,

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

16,

Oct.

1879.

Date when Charter
was Ordered .

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
.......... Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"..

..........

Callayomi . .... .. . !:S:: Middletown ........ I..ke ........ ......
South West ..... 283 National City ...... San Diego ..........
San Miguel ..... . 285 San Miguel . . ...... San Luis Obispo .....
Paso Robles .... . 286 Past Robles •.... . .. San Luis Obispo . . .. .
Winnedumah ..... 28i Bishop . ............ Inyo •..............
Colusa .............
Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell
Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore •........... Riverside
East Gate ..... . .. 290 East Los Angeles .... Los Angeles ........
Santa Paula ..... 291 Santa Paula ........ Ventura ...........
Los Gatos •...... 292 Los Gatos ..• . ... . .. Santa Clara ........
Orange Grove . .... 293 Orange ............ Orange ............
Traver ........ . . 294 Kingsburg ......... Fresno .............
Mt. Jackson . ... . . 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma ......• . ...•
Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego .........• San Diego .........•
Dunsmuir . ..... . 297 Dunsmuir ....... . .. Siskiyou .......... •
Mokelumne Hill ... 298 Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras
Liberty .. . ........ 299 Santa Clara ........ Santa Clara .... . ..•
Redlands ........ 300 Redlands ........... San Bernardino ....•
Ontario .......... 301 Ontario ............ San Bernardino ....•
Santa Lucia ..... 302 Kings' City ........ Monterey . .........
Porterville ....... 303 Porterville ......... Tulare .............
Fresno ......... . ..•
Reedley ..•..... . 304 Reedley
Azusa ........... 305 Azusa • . ..... . ....• Los Angeles .......•
Ashlar ......... : . 306 Colton ............. San Bernardino .....
Santa Monica .... 307 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ....... •
Monrovia ........ 308 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles ........
Delano .. . •. . . . . . 309 Delano ············· Kern
Siskiyou . ...........
Bisson .......... . 310 Sisson
Los Banos ..... . . 312 Los Banos .. . ...... Merced ........... .
Tehachapi ....... 313 Tehachapi .......... Kem ..............•
Temescal . . . . . . . . 314 Corona •............ Riverside
Norwalk ......... 315 Norwalk .... . ...... Los Angeles .. . ....•
Sanger ....•..... 316 Sanger ............ ,Fresno •...........•
Fallbrook •....... 317 Fallbrook •......•.. San Diego ••.•.....•

I

178 Bodie ..... . ...... 252 Bodie ...........--:-:-:-Mon~..... .. ....•
179 Landmark ....... 253 Madison ... .. ...... Yolo ........ .. ... .
180 Reading ..........254 Redding ........... Shasta ...... . ..... .
181 Welcome .. . ...... 255 Lemoore ........... Tulare ......... . .. .
182 Lodi ............. 256 Lodi .. . ...•....... San .Joaquin ......•.
183 Penrhyn .... . .... 258 Penryn ...•........ Placer ............ .
184 Evergreen ...... . 259 Riverside .. . ..... . . Riverside ..... .. .. .
185 King Solomon's ... 260 Sail Francisco . . . . . San Francisco .....•
186 Tuscan ... . ...... 2611Williams .. . .... . ... Colusa ....... . ...••
187 Lompoc ....... . .. 262 Lompoc ............ Santa Barbara . . .. .
188 Hesperian . ...... 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .. .. ,
189 Orland .......... 265 Orland ............. Glenn ............. .
190 North East ... .. . 266 Fort Bidwell ....... Modoc ............•
191 Galt .... , ........ 267 Galt ............... jSacramento ......• ,
192 Durant ... . ...... 268 Berkeley ........... Alameda .......... .
193 Olive Branch .... 269 Tulare . .. . . . ....... Tulare ........ . .. . .
194 Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ........ Colusa ............•
195 Pasadena ... ; .... 272 Pasadena ...... . ... Los Angeles ....•..•
196 Anchor .......... 273 Compton ........... ,Los Angeles .... . .••
197 Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande .. . .. San Luis Obispo .... ,
198 Oakdale .. . ...... 275 Oakdale : . .......... Stanislaus· . ........•
199 Selma ........... 277 Selma ............. Fresno ............ .
200 Southern Calif .. . . 278 Los Angeles ..... . .. Los Anieles •.. .. .••
201 Hanford ..........279 Hanford ........... ,Kings ......... ....•
202 J.ladera .......... 280 Madera .......... . . Madera . . ........•.
203 Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson .......... 1Shasta ... . ........ .

Names of Lod~es.

.,.;...

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

...

"

.;

«>·-

50
2
50 ......
60
1
40 ······
30 ......
50 .......
30
5

50 ······

50 ······
50 . 3
30 ......
50 ······
30 ... ...
40 ......
50 ······
30 ......
30 ......
50 ······
50 .......
50 ......

30
I
30 10
30 .. ....
30 .. ....
30 ..... .
30 ......
50 ......
30 .. ....
50 .......
30
1
30 ......
30 ······
50 ......

40
1
30
5
30 .... ..
100 10
50 .. ....
30
1
50 ......
30 ······
30
6
30
1
30
3
75 15
50 ......
40
3
50 ......

35 ······

30 .. ....
30
3
50 .. ....
100 15
50 ..... .
35
1

5o ......

60 ... ...
30
1
50
5

<

~A ~iil

«> tlf)

,...;

si::
.,o

132
30
397
68
51

66
100
664
150
82
47

6
6
6
6
6

6
6
6
6
6
6

6

6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
9
6

6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

12
6
6
6
6
6

166
222
136
66
164
52
78
116
116
127
62
72
43
126
85
50
82
29

tiO

- -;70
57
92
2\J
43
529
123
108
107
64
70
315
9\1

319
522
56
103
221
70
36
37
418

6
12
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

·i

42
32
160
82
147
74

>1~
12
6
6
6
6
6

<

1 ""'

"'
..,..;~ I.9~
"i:i A"'
.9

N
~

Q

>
z

'°

.j:>.

N

....;..z

:ll

0

:;j

t'

>

Q

'%J

l".I
0

Q

tJ

t'
0

tJ

Q
:0

t-3
~

l".I

0
'%J

t,f

l".I

t'
0
t1

l".I

t-3

ii>

z

t1

:0

0

rn
Cl
tD

0
'%J

t-3

rn

....

t'

00

z"

Town.

Place of Location.
County.

..........

"
"
"
"
14,
14,

"
·t ""
"
"
Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1905.
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
" "
12, 1905.
"
"
"
"
10, 1~06.

12,

"
"

1904.

"

1903.

"
"
"

13,

"
"
"
"
"
16,

"

"
"
"
"
15,

15, . 1902.

"

"

Oct.

10,
10,
15,

1901.
1901.
1902.

"
" "
"
"
11, 1900.
"
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

"

"

"

1899.

"
"
"
"
"
1898.

"

1897.

"
"

"
"

15,

"

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"

Oct.

1893.
1894.

Oct.

Oct.

"
"
"
"
11, 1895.
"
"
"
"
13, 1896.

Hollenbeck .. . ... 319 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
South Gate ...... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Alis al . . ....... , __ 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ...........
Alhambra
...... 322 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles .. . .... .
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier .......... Los Angeles .. . .....
Corona . ......... 324 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles .... . ...
Consuelo ......... 325 Escondido .......... San Diego ..........
Needles .......... 326 Needles •........... San Bernardino .....
Long Beach ...... 327 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles ........
Redondo ......... 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ........
Vallee de France .. 3~9 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .... . ...
Kilauea .. . ' ..... 330 Hilo ........ . ...... Hawaiian Ter. . ..• . .
Pacific Grove .... 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monterey ..... . .. .
San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ........
Alta ............. 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono .......... . . ..
Covina .......... 334 Covina ............. Los Angeles ........
West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Fruitvale ..... . .. 336 Fruitvale .......... Alameda ...........
Carquinez ...... . 337 Crockett •.......... Contra Costa .......
San Jacinto .. . . .. 338 San Jacinto ..... . .. Riverside ····· ·· ···
Orange . ...... ... ..
Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton
Oxnard ... , ...... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura ···········
Manila .......... 342 Manila ............ Philippine Islands . ..
San Francisco .... 343 Fernando .......... Los Angeles ........
Starr King ...... 344 San Francisco •..... San Francisco ......

264 Brentwood .. ... . .. 3±5 Brentwood ......... Contra Costa ... ... .
265 Palo Alto ........ 346 Palo Alto .......... Santa Clara .......•
266 McKinley ........ 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ...... ~
267 San Bernardino ... 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino .•.••
268 Sequoia .......... 349 Oakland ........... Alameda ........ . ..
268 Cavite ........... 350 Cavite ............. Philippine Islands ...
270 Palestine ........ 351 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
271 . Sunset ........ . .. 352 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
272 Pinole .......... . 353 Pinole ............. Contra Costa .. . . .. .
273 Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco .. . ...
274 Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood ......... Los Angeles ........
275 Mill Valley ...... 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin •......... . ..
276 Buena Park ...... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ........ . ...
277 Golden State . . . . 358 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........ ·
278 Loyalton ........ 359 Loyalton ........... Sierra ............••
279 San Francisco ... . 360 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
280 Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg •........ Mendocino ........•
281 Charity .......... 362 Campbell ........... , Santa Clara ......•.
282 Berkeley ........ 363 Berkeley ........•.. Alameda •..........
283 Olivet ........ . . . 364 Corning ............ Tehama ....... . . ...
284 Willits .......... 365 Willits .. . ......... Mendocino ....•....
285 Las Palmos --· .... 366 Fresno ............. Fresno
·············
286 South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena .... Los Angeles
.... . ...
287 Unity ........... 368 Glendale
Los
Angeles
.....•.•
···········
288 Ocean Park ...... 369 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ........
289 Amity ........... 370 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .... . •
290 Oceanic .......... 371 Honolulu ........... Hawaiian Ter. . .....
291 Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ........... Los Angeles .... .. .•
292 Veteran ........ . 373 Sawtelle ........... Los Angeles .......•
293 Jewel ....... . ... 374 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... ,
294 Richmond ... . ... . 375 San Francisco . , .... San Francisco .. .. ..
295 Francis Drake ... 376 South San Francisco. San Mateo ........•
296 Artesia .......... 377 Artesia ............ Los Angeles .......•
297 Mizpah ...•...... 378 Los Angeles .•.....• Los Angeles •..•.. ·-

239
140
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263

11,
11,

was Ordered.

I Date when Charter

I
I
238 Emmanuel ....... 318'Biggs .............. 'Butte .......... .. .. Oct.

Names of Lodges.

.0

"8

~

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued. ·
~

w

I

50 ······
5
75
5
50
3
30
3
30
50 ......
75 IO
5
50
30 ······
50 15

3

30 ......
50 4~
50 ......
50
3
50
l
50
5
50 ......
50 ······
50 ......
75
50 ......
50 .......
30 ......
50 ······
50 .......
75 ... .. .
50
5
30 ......
50
30 ......
30 1
5()
3
50 ······

50 ......
50 ..... .
75 10

"I ,

50 ......

41) ......

30 ......
75 20
50 ······
50 ······

53 ······

3;)
5
50 JO
50 15
35 ......
35 ······
30
3
50 .... ..
30 ......
501 1
50 ......
50 ......
50 12
50 ......
50 ·· ·····
50 ......

~A

"'~ t~

6
6
12
12
6
6
12
12
6
6
6

6
9
6
6
6
12
6
6
12
12
6
12
6
6
6
12
6

6
6
8
6
6
6
6
12
12
6
6
9
6
6
12
6
6
6
6
12
6
12

i

<

"<=<=

A

"'"' M'l...

k ci
oO

-;;;

•

-+i

k

-o"'t

k.;,

t"
....

rn

t<J

t"
0

0
ti:J

60
6

141
80
238
59
64
338

63

70
208
144
133
173
271
120

54

71
252
290
81
234
207
144
48
302
42
194
79
65
286

3:~6

63
182
158
217

4

34
00
4
3

1
·8
3

I

,o

,I)

2

15
45

>-3

>
z

g

~

N

>

z

0
:>:l

...>".It"

(")

'lj

0

l.>;l

t" 0

ti

0
:>:l

l':l

:i::

".I

0

rn

tj

>
>-3

z

0
:>:l
tl

c:

rn
to

".I

0

>-3

:8
;3
,7
2

~~

""'

"'Sl

.s<=

N

0
°'

.,...
s::I

,t:l

Places of Location.

325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332
333
334
335
336
337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352

298
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323

Countr.

I

I

. . .. . . .. - -

'.

I

Burbani. ........ _4' " Burbank .....•..... Los Angeles •....•.
aL Mesa ........ .407 L_a Mesa . . . . . . . . . . . . San ,Diego ..........
Sierra Madre ... .408 Sierra Madre ... ·..... Los Angeles ....... .
Honolulu ..... .. .409 Honolulu .... . ..... Hawaii .... . .......
Charter ):?ock .... 410 Berkeley .... .... ... Alameda ... ... .....
Perris .......... .411 Perris .. ... ........ Riverside ... .. .....
Calexico ........ .412 Calexico
·· ····· · Imperial . ······ ....
Waucoba ....... .413 Big Pine ···
........... Inyo ...............
Arligton ........ .414 Los Angeles .. . ..... Los Angeles .... ... .
Silver Trowel .... 415 Los Angeles . ... .... Los Angeles ........
Lindsay ........ .416 Lindsay .... ..... .. Tulare . ... .... .. ..
Clovis .. .. .. . ... .417 Clovis ............. Fresno . ...........
Elysian .......... 418 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...•....
Upland . .. .. .... .419 Upland . . .... .... .. San Bernardino .....
Kerman ......... .420 Kerman ............ Fresno .•....... ......
Inglewood ...... .421 Inglewood ..... .. .... Los Angeles .... ....
Eagle Rock ..... .422 Eagle Rock ......... Los Angeles .........
York ....... ..... .423 Watts .............. \Los Angeles ........
Exeter ... ...... .424 Exeter ... ....... . . Tulare .............
Holtville ....... .425 Holtville ......... ·--Jimperial ..........•
Midway ... .. ..... 426 'l'aft .•..........•.. Kern ... ...... .....
Chino Valley ... . . 427 Chino .......... : .. · JSan Bernardino .....
San Dimas .... .. 428 San Dimas .... .. ... Los Angeles ... .. ...
Pittsburg . . ... .. .429,Pittsburg .... .. .. .. Contra Costa ......•
MoCloud ...•••.. ·"'IMoCloud •...•.••.... s;.kiyou ..••. • ..•••
Alpha ... .. ...... .431 Richmond ...... .... Contra Costa ......•
Roseville ....... .432 Roseville ........... rlacer ..... . .•......
Hammonton .... U.D. Hammonton ........ Yuba ..............

~~·

Fillmore ......... 379 Fillmore ... .. ... ... Ventura ........... .
Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach .. Orange ... .... .... .
Oceanside ........ 381 Oceanside ......•... San Diego . .... ....•
Highland Park .... 382 Los Angeles .... .. ... Los Angeles .....•...
Orosi . .. : ........ 383 Orosi .............• Tulare .... . . . ..... .
El Centro ... . ... 384 El Centro ........... San Diego ......... .
Dinuba .. ....... . 385 Dinuba .. .. ..... .. .• Tulare . .. ..... ....•
Corregidor . ...... 386 Manila .... .. ....... Philippine Islands ..•
Coalinga .......... 387 Coalinga ........... Tulare •..........•.
Parnassus ........ 388 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
Palos Verdes .... 389 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles •. .......
Imperial ......... 390 Imperial ........... Imperial .. . .. .....•
East Belt ....... 391 Tuolumne ... .. . .... Tuolumne ......... .
West Lake ..... : .392 Los Angeles ..•..... Los Angeles ... . ... .
Balder ............393 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
University .. ..... 394 Los Angeles .. . ...... Los Angeles .. .... .•.
Turlock .......... 395 Turlock ............ Stanislaus .•....•.••
Apollo ... ·........ 396 Alameda ........... Alameda .. . .......•
Rising Light ..... 397 Huntington Park .... Los Angeles . ....... .
Fowler .......... 398 Fowler ............. Fresno ............•
Fraternity ....... 399 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ...... . .
Burlingame ..... .41>0,Burlingame ........ San Mateo ......... .
Bay View . ... . .. .401 Oakland ........... Al!lmeda .......... .
Brawley ...... .. .402,Brawley ........... Imperial •..........
Yerba Buena .. . .403 Oakland. . .... . ..... Alameda .........•.
Glendora .. ... . . .404 Glendora ........... Los Angeles .....•.•

~---~·
To-wn_
. I
z ~-

Names of Lodll'eS.

,.;

"

Oct.

"
"n
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
Oct.

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1910.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
11, 1911.
" "
" "
" "
12, 1910.

13,

Oct.

"
"
"
·"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

" "
10, 1907.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
" 1908
15,
" "
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
14, 1909.
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
Oct.

1906.

10,

Oct.

was Ordered.

Date when Charter

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

~

a>!!

6
6
6.
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
10
6
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
6

50
50
6
50
5
50
3
50
3
30
3
35 ......
50 ......
50 10
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
100 10
35 ......
35 ......
50
1
50 ......
50 ......
50
4
50 ......

58
151
249
38
56
29
73
86
46
29
88
46
31
46
31
30
43
27
36
30
47
29
25
37
32
22

46

46
114
46

142

179
68
62
35
373
144
117
54
99
55
19
122
112

98
129

59
41
29
254
40
80
62

<:l

:4 ~
::.~

48,315

- - - - -- - --

...... ...... ......

6
12
6
6
6

.

6;

12

9
6
6
6
12
6
6

ti

6
6
12
6

l:l

9
6
6
6
6
6
6
12
6
12
6

~

§

-;

50 .....
50
5
50 ......
3
50
50
5

5u

-.

30
1
30 ······
50 .... . .
50 .... ..
30
6
50 10
30
3
50 ..... .
75 .... ..
75 10
50 .... . .
50 10
50
5
50 ······
75 10
50 ..... .
40 ..... .
75
1
50 .. ... .
40 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 .. ... .
50 10
1
50
50
1
30 .... . .

-<

~~ ~iS

Q)

. . .; I . . g A~ I .S. . .;

.E $ .E'.ll

N

c:..>

(A

N

~

z

".l
0
:0

t"
.....

>

()

l'1
0
".l

Q

tl
t"
0
tl

>
z

:0

Q

:i:
t<J

...,

".l

cY

rn

t<J

Q

r'
0
tJ

t<J

~...,

tl

to
0
:0

c:

rn

0
".l

rn
...,

r'
.....

N

<.n

. ... -. • .

. . ...... .

5, 1853 Oct.
3, 1854 Sept.
3, 1854 Oct.
3, 1854 May
3, 1854 June
3, 1854 Nov.
3, 1854 May
2, 1855 Feb.
3, 1855 'oct.
2, 1855 May
2, 1855 :May
2, 1855 ,Dec.,

I

Remarks.

-!>-

I\)
(Ji

!?"'", 1 - - 3nrrendered.
Franklin ... . ..... Meadow Valley ... Plumas ..... . .. · 11.cay -· _. , -- Dee.
i4 Wisconsin Hill. ... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer .. . ...... . =1fay l5, 1857* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ~barter never issued.
75 Mountain Forest .. /Rureka North . ... /Sierra .... ... .... May 3, 1855 JAug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870 .3 urrendered.
T7 Petaluma ........ Petaluma ........ Sonoma .. . ...... May
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
82 Mountain ... .. ... Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne . .... .. May
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
8,
1856
May
18,
1861
Surrendered.
85 Indian Diggings ... Indian Diggings .. El Dorado . . ... .. May
8, 1856 Oct.
17,·1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
86 Saint Louis .. .. ... Howland 's Flat ... Sierra .. . .... . .. May
o
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
8, 1856 /Nov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
::a
88 Unity ........... Orleans Flat ..... Nevada . ...... .. May
No. 158.
~
8, 1856 May
88 Quitman ... . ..... North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
t::I
8,
1856
[Oct.
90 Polar Star ........ Poorman 's Creek. Plumas .. . ...... May
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13.
8, 1858 Surrendered.
t"
93 Caymus ..... .. ... Yountville ...... Napa ......... .. May 8, 1856 May
0
8, i856 Oct.
IO, 1867 Removed and name changed
to ~
St. Helena.
94 Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ... Plumas .......... May
24, 1859 Surrendered.
98 Quartzburg .. ..... Quartzburg ...·... Mariposa ........ May 8, 1856 Dee.
0
100 Campo Seco ....... Campo Seco .. .... Calaveras ....... 1May 8, 1856 ........ . . . ... Name changed to Hornitas.
':J
8, 1856 Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
0~
No. 78.
102 Manzanita .. . . . .. ,North San Juan. · !Nevada ...... .. · !May 8, 1856 IOet.
13, 19101Consolidated with Nevada No. 13. ·l;j
105 Siskiyou ... : ..... Henley ......... Siskiyou ........ May 15, 1856 Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
o
J
No. 37.
::a
107 Mount Jefferson ... ;Garrotte ....... .. !Tuolumne ....... !May 14, 1857 !Oet.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 ~
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol· ii"
108
umne No. 8.
·
Owen ......... '" . Scott's Bar ....... 'Siskiyou ... . ..... ,May
14, 1857 !Oct.
15, 1908 Consolida ted with North Star
l09
No. 91.
ll4 Dibble .. . .... . ... Omega . . ........ jNevada ..... . . . . May 14, 1857 JBept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
ll5 Mt. Zion ........ Grizzly Flat ..... El Dorado ....... May 14, 1857~ct.
ll, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. ~6.
116 Saint Mark's ... . . Fiddletown ...... A.mador ..... . ... 1May 14, 1857 une 26,
1894 Revoked.
Windsor ......... Windsor ...... . -rBierra .......... · /May 14, 1857
ay
18, 1861 Surrendered.
118 Folsom .......... .l!~olsom •......... Sacramento ...... Feb. 14, 1857* Jan.
I\)
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
Vallecito ........ Vallecito ........ Calaveras ....... ,May
(Ji
13, 1858 Jan.
5, 1859 Surrendered.
(Ji

-- :r.JTO . . . . . . •. . . . .

"'" -

Nebraska ........ M1ch1gan Bar .... Sacramento ...... 1MaJit

71

-

Santa Clara .... : .. Santa Clara ...... Santa Clara ...... May
Butte ............ Bidwell ......... Butte . : ......... May
Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer ... . ...... May
Grass Valley ... ... Grass Valley .. . . . Nevada ......... May
Lebanon ...... . . San Francisco .... San Francisco .... May
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada .. . .... .. May
Franklin ..... . ... Sacramento ..... Sacramento .. . ... May
Saint James ...... Jamestown ...... Tuolumne ....... May
Iowa Hill ........ Iowa Hill .......• Placer ....... ... May
Minnesota ....... Minnesota ....... Sierra . : ..... . ... May
Ind. Royal Arch .. Marysville ...... Yuba ........... May
Corinthian ....... M~ry.sville ...... Yuba ........... ,May

34
36
47
48
49
52
53
54
63
67
69
69

Chartered.

Diamond ......... Diamond Springs. El Dorado . .... .. May
Mokelumne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ... . . . . May

County.

LODGES.

29
31

Lo ca

EXTINCT

Location.

County.

Virginia City ...•• Virginia City .... Nevada Te,. . ..... May
Silver City ..•.••• Silver City . . .... ~ Nevada Ter ....... May
Silver Star ....... Gold Hill. . . ... . , Nevada Ter ...... Oct.

162
L63
165

Remarks.

#

..

..

... -

-

,.

':'

-.J

v.

6

=

s

0\

v.

N

Alpine ........... MarkleetlJJe ... _ .\Jpine .... _..... ll.ay
175 Claiborne .. .. .... Antioeh ......... Contra Costa . . .. . Oct. !5". 1 ..
~
-176 Merced .......... Snelling . . .. . .... Mereed ....... . . Oct. 12, 1865 . . .... __.. . . . . Yame changed to Antioeh..
"177
16, 1819 Surrendered.
Aztlan ...... . .... Prescott ......... Arizona Ter . ..... Oct. 12, 1865 IOet.
11, 1866 Meh. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
180 Arcturas ......... Petaluma ....... Sonoma ....... . .. Oct.
Arizona.
11, 1866 Dee.,
1898 Consolidated with Petaluma No.
185 Arenas ........... Punta Arenas .... Mendocino ...... Oct.
77 as No. 180.
189 Latrobe .......... Latrobe ......... El Dorado .... . .. Oct. 10, 1867 ...... .. .... . . Name changed to Claiborne.
197 Paradise ......... Haywards ....... Alameda •....... Oct. I5, 1868 De<'.,
I884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
0
:"1
Rocklin .......... Rocklin ......... Placer .........•. July 14, 1869 July 20, 1872 Surrendered.
213 Bodega .......... Bodega . . . . . . . . . Sonoma •.......• Oct. 30, 1870* .. . .... . ...... Charter never issued.
~
218 Pleasanton ....... Livermore ....... Alameda ...... . • Oct. 14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
t:l
223 Maui . . . . . . . . . . . . ailuku ......... Hawaii ........• Oct. 11, 1872 Oet .
18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.
t"'
227 Contra Costa .•.... Somersville ...... Contra Costa ....• Oct. 18, 1873 Nov. 17, 1877 Surrendered.
.o
238 Tyre ............ Gold Run ........ Placer . ......... Oct. 18, 1873 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
ti
239 Pescadero ........ Pescadero ....... San Mateo ......• Oct. 14, 1875 Oct.
16, I884 Surrendered.
f;
240 Equality ......... Colusa. . . ....... Colusa .. . ......• Oct. I4, 1875 Sept. 26, 1890 Surrendered.
14, 1875 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142 0'>J
249 Greenville ........ Greenville ....... Plumas .......... Oct.
as Colusa No. 240.
251 Brotherhood ..... Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma _. .. .. . .. Oct. IO, 1878 /0ct.
0
16, I896 Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132 ~
257 Arizona .......... Phoenix .. . ..... Arizona Ter ...... Oct. IO, 1878 April 19,
1888 Surrendered.
f:..
I6, 1879 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Solomon ......... Tombstone ...... Arizona "I'er.. . ... une
Arizona.
:ti
4, 1881 */Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
2'.i
263 Tucson .......... Tucson ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct.
Arizona.
>
15, 1881 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
270 Fall River . . ..... Burgettville .. . . . Shasta .....• . ... Oct.
Arizona.
276 Westport ........ Westport ........ Mendocino _ .....• Oct. 11, 1883 Oct.
10, 1895 Revoked.
284 Tyrian ........... Dunnigan ........ Yolo ... .'........ .:>ct. 16, 1884 May 26, 1888 Surrendered.
14, 1886 Oct.
311 Hueneme .. . ..... Hueneme ..•..••• Ventura . ..... . •• Oct.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Woodland N o. 156
340
12, 1892 Oct.
16, 1902 Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341.
Santa Maria ...... Santa Maria ...... Santa Barbara ...• Oct.
11, 1900 Oct.
"Date of Dispensation.
13, 1910 Consolida.t:ed with Hes1>Arlan No. 264. . N

·········· Austin .......... Nevada Ter ..... ~ Oct.

E3curial ..•..•••• Virginia City ...• Nevada Ter ...... Oct.

172 Lauder

171

170 Esmeralda ...•••• Aurora .......... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.

Gibsonville ...•.• Gibsonville ...... Sierra ....... . ... May
Gilroy .........•• Gilroy ·... . ...... Santa Clara ...... May
Pilot Hill .......•• Pilot Hill ........ El Dorado ....... May

158
159
160

155 Mount Carmel. . ·.•• Red Dog ...... ·... NeYada ..... .... May
157 Washoe ........•• Washoe City ..... Nevada Ter .. . .. . May

l52 Josephus ......... Brush Creek ...... Butte ........... May
153 Rising Sun .....•• Brandy City ..... Sierra .......... May
154 Carson ........•.• Carson City ... . .. Nevada Ter . . . . .. May

Became Extinct

13, 1858 Oct.
8, 1905 Surrendered.
1858 Oct.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1859 May 13, 1863 R evoked.
10, 1860 June,
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
10, 1860 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
2, 1865 Surrendered.
16, 1861 Dec.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
16, 1862 Oct.
l"1
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
><
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 Oct.
~
16, 1864 Surrendered.
z
15, 1862 July
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Ne- ~
15, 1862 Jan.
vada.
14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered:
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Ne- g
14, 1863 Jan.
ttj
vada.
. "'
14, 1863 Oct.
15, 1908 Jonsolidated with Jefferson No. 97. 0»j
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
>'J
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown
No. 25.
ttj
14, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863 .Tan.
16, _I865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Tra nsferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction· of Nevada.
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Ne14,"!864 Jan.
vada.
.

Chartered.

Ionic ...........• Iowa Hill ........ Plaeer . .. .. . .. .. May
Progress ........• San Francisco . ... San Francisco ....
Unity ..........• San Bernardino .. . San Bernardino .. May
Oro Fino ........• Oro Fino ......... Siskiyou ........ May
Violet ....... . ..• Spanish Flat .... . El Dorado ....... May
Colusa . . .......•. Colusa .......... Colusa · ········· M ay

Name.

148 San Luis Obispo •.. San Luis Obispo .. San Lujs Obispo .. May
151 Palmyra .......•• Placerville ...... El Dorado ...... . May

l21
125
130
137
138
142

No.

258

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS
O:RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W.-. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Year

1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
\895

Grand Master.
•Jonathan D. Stevenson ...
•John A. Tu.tt ........... ..
•Benjamin D. Hyam .•• • .•
•Charles M. Radcliff .....•
•William H. Howard ...•.
*William H. Howard ....•
•William H. Howard .... .
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ... .. .
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..••..
•James L. English ....... .
•Wllllam c. Belcher: ....•
•William C. Belcher ..... .
•William C. Belcher ... , .•
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ... • .
•Gilbert B. Claiborne . ....
William A. Davies ... . ..•
•Charles Marsh ......... ,.
•Leonidas E . Pratt. ......•
•Leonidas E. Pratt ••• ... • .
•Leonidas E. Pratt .• , ....•
•Leonidas E. Pratt., ....• ,
•Isaac S. Titus ..... , .•...
George C. Perkins ....... .
•John M. Browne . .,,. .... ,.
•John M. Browne .. : •... .•
•John M. Browne .......•.
•John M. Browne . •. ..•...
*William W. Traylor ... . .•
Samuel C. Denson . . .....•
•clay w . Taylor ...•......
*Clay w. Taylor ..•.......
•Jonathan D. Hines ..•...
•Jonathan D. Hines ..... .
*Wiley J. Tinnin ... . ..... .
'Edmund C. Atkinson . ... .
*Hiram N. Rucker •..... .•
•Morris M. Estee ... , .... .
•Morris M. Estee ..•. , ... .
*Alvah R. Conklin ........ .
•William Johnston ....... .
•Charles R . Gritman
Henry S. Orme . . .... , .. . .
James B. Stevens .. ...•..
*Edward M. Preston ...• . .

Deputy
Grand Master.
•John A. Tutt ...•...•
•Benjamin D.· Hyam .•
*Charles M. Radcliff ..
•Townsend A. Thomas
•Nathaniel G. Curtis .•
•Townsend A. Thomas
•John A Raymond .... .
*Charles Marsh ...... .
*Philip W. Shepheard.
*Phlllp W. Shepheard.
*Philip W. Shepheard.
•William C. Belcher ..
•Gilbert B. Claiborne. .
*Gilbert B. Claiborne..
*Gilbert B . Claiborne..
William A. Davies . . ,
•Henry H. Hartley .. ..
•Henry H. Hartley .. ..
•Leonidas E. Pratt .. ..
•Isaac S. Titus ...... ..
•Isaac S. Titus ...... ..
•Charles L. Wiggin .. .
*Benj. H. Fret>man .. .
George C. Perkins .. .
•Johh M. Browne .... .
*Charles L. Wiggin .. .
•Charles J,. Wiggin .. .
*Charles L. Wiggin .. .
*William W, Traylor ..
Samuel C. Denson .. ..
•clay w. Taylor ..... .
•John Q. Adams ..... .
•.Jonathan D. Hines.:-:
•Wiley J. Tinnin ... .. .
•Wiley J . Tinnin ... . . .
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Hiram N. Rucker ....
•Morris M. Estee .....
*Alvah R. Conklin ... ,
•William .Johnston ... .
•William Johnston . .. .
•Charles Ray Gritman.
Henry S. Orme ..... .
James B. Stevens .. ..
*Edward M. Preston .•
William T. Lucas ....

259

l8TH DAY OF APRIL. A. L. 5850.
Senior
Grand Warden.

•Caleb Fenner.
•E. F. W. E111s.
"Adolphus Hollub.
•John R . Crandall.
•Rector E. Cole.
•John A. Raymond.
•Lemuel Lyon.
•Aaron D. Park.
•w1111am McCormick.
"Ebenezer Lane.
•William C. Belcher.
•John W. Harville.
•John W. Harville.
•Louis Cohn.
Wllllam A. ·Davies.
•Isaac s. Titus.
•Wm. H. Peterson.
Thomas Beck.
*Theodore G. Cockrill
•John S. Ward.
*Charles L. Wiggin.
•Benj. H. Freeman.
George C. Perkins.
•John M. Browne.
•William B. Parker.
•Wiley J . Tinnin.
'William S. Weils.
•William W. T1·ay10 ..
William H. Crane.
•clay w. Taylor.
•John Q. Adams.
•Jonathan D. Hines.
'Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Edmund c. Atkinson.
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Hiram N. Rucker.
•Morris M. Estee.
•Aivah R. Conklin.
*William Johnston
•Charles R. Gritman.
•Charles R. Gritman.
Henry S. Orme.
James B . Stevens.
*Edward M. Preston.
William T. Lucas.
Thomas Flint.

Junior
lr1nd Warden.

Grand Trea1urer.

Grand
Secretary.

1lwl Woods ...... .. •Levi Stowell .......... •John H. Glhon .......

, 11J "4. Olds ..... . ... •Townsend A. Thomas •Levi Stowell . ••....••.
tu 1 H. McConnell .• . "Addison Martin .•••.. •Levi Stowell ....•.. ...
I l11m1 F. Knott .... •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .... .. ....
l1u1t N. Wood ..... •Addison Martin ...•.. •Levi Stowell ...••....•
u1111r1I A. Merritt. .. •Addison Martin., .... •Levi Stowell ..,.•. . .. •.
I 1· W, Randle ..... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
1111 It Bope ........ •Addison Martin ...... •Alex. G. Abell ••.•.•..
1 .. W. Bicknell ... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
t111111 P. Hawley .. 'Addison Martin ...... 'Alex G. Abell . .. .... .
I lhlll\ Hayward . ... •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ... •.. ..
l 1h JI). Wilcoxon ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ... .. .••
1h11 II Hewson ..... •Jnmes Laldley ..... .. . 'Alex G. Abell ........
UU11111 A. Davies ... •James Laldley ........ 'Alex G. Abell .•.•....
" H Titus ........ •James Laldley ........ 'Alex G. Abell ........
· I 111 ~ H. Hartley . ... •James Laldley ........ "Alex G. Abell .....•..
· I 111t11io Beck .... ... •James Laldley ..... ... •Alex G. Abell ........
tlllldu E . Pratt .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ••...•.•
1h11·lok F. Barss ... •James Laldley .... .... *Alex G. Abell ...•...•
I h1ud Dale ........ •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
• 11 1 ll. Freeman.,. •James Laldley ........ "Alex G. Abell .. . .... .
o 1· Perkins ...... •James Laldley ...... .. *Alex G. Abell ....... .
1111 M. Browne .... . •James Laldley .. , ..... *Alex G. Abell ...•..•.
H
Jll. Mitchell., .. •James Laldley ... ... .. *Alex G. Abell ......••
lh 1 J. Tinnin..... •James Laldley .... .. .. "Alex G. Abell ........
•uh H. Net'!'. .. . . . ... •James Laldley ........ *Alex. G. Abell .. . ..•• .
t 111 W. Craigue .... •James Laldley .. .... .. "Alex. G. Abell ... .. .. •
111 11 Crane. . . . . . . •Moses Heller. . . . . . . . . •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
1i111t C. Broder .... •Moses Heller . •... . • .. •Alex. G. Abell .•. .. ...
11 Q, Adams .. .. . . •Moses Heller ..••...• , *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
tl11 W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller .. ...•... *Alex. G. Abell ......•.
tlllnM J. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ........ , "Alex. G. Abell ....... .
r1~ Hinds ........ •Moses Heller . ........ *Alex. G. Abell ......••
11\111 N. Rucker ... . •Moses Heller .... , . . .. •Alex. G. Abell .......•
&111 N. Rucker .. .. •Moses Heller . . .. , . ... *Alex. G. Abell . ...... .
111 1' II. Knapp ..... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell . .. ..•• .
I 1.h R. Conklin .... •Nathan W . Spaulding. "Alex. G. Abell ..• . ..•.
111 Johnston ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ..... .. .
• 11111• D. Boruck ... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .. . ....•
I 111 " B. Orme . ... . . . •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
111 w B. Orme .. ..... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson .. . . . .
u B. Stevens .... •Nathan W. Spo.uldlng. *George Johnson ..... .
•1-I M. Preston .. •Nathan W , Spaulding. •George Johnson ... .. .
111 '%', Lucas . .... . . Edward Coleman ... ,. •George Johnson .. . .. .
I fin"• Flint .. .. .. .. Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..
• 111k M. Angellotti. . Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .. ... .
0

•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

260

Year.
1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M.·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

Junior
tlnnd Warden.

William T. Lucas . • ...... Thomas Flint. ...... . Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Fllnt.. .. . •..... • •• Frank M. Angellotti . . Charles L. Patton.
Frank M. Angellotti. ....• Charles L. Patton ... . James A. Foshay.
Charles L. Patton .... • .•. James A. Foshay .... . Wllllam S. Wells.
James A. Foshay ......•.• Wiiliam 13: Wells ..•.• Orrin S. Henderson.
William s. Wells ..•••••.• Orrin S. Henderson .• Charles W. Nutting.
Orrin S. Henderson ....•• Charles W. Nutting .• George W. Hunter.
Charles W. Nutting ..... . George W. Hunter ..• Motley H. Flint.
George W. Hunter ...... . Motley H. Fllnt. .•... Edward H. Hart.
Motley H. Fllnt ....... . .• Edward H . Hart ... . • George M . Perine.
Edward H. H!l.rt ........• Geo. M. Perine ...... . •Reuben H. Loyd.
George M. Perine .......• •Reuben H. Loyd ..... . Oscar Lawler.
Oscar Lawler ••........... •w. Frank Pierce .... . Dana R. Weller.
•w. Frank Pierce ....... .• Dana R. Weller..... . Alonzo J. Monroe.
Dana R . Weller ....... . . . Alonzo J . Monroe ... . Wm. P. Filmer.
Alonzo J. Monroe ....... . Wm. P. Fiimer ..... . John D. Murphey.
Wm . . P. Fiimer ... .. ...••• John D. Murphey . .. . BenJ. F . Bledsoe.

tll• 11 .. L. Patton •...
11 11nA A. Foshay . •..•
"'lllll'm 8. Wells ..•••
11 tin S. Henderson .••
I 1, 1I01 W . Nutting ••
I '°' ~" W. Hunter .•.
•lllty H. Flint ••••••
I .1 .. ard H . Hart ...••
""'Ill M. Perine .•••
I 1ull1n H. Lloyd .... .
I 4 " ' J. . awler . ...... . .
Frank P ierce ....•
11 101110 J . Monroe .•••
' llllnm P. Filmer .••
l1 1h11 D. Mu rphey ..••
l h•11j, F . Bledsoe ... ; .
\ 11 •• 1 t G. Burnett ...

•Deceased.

Grand Treaaurer.

Edward Coleman .••.• •George Johnson ....•.
Edward Coleman • • • •• •George Johnson ...• • .
Edward Coleman •.••. •George Johnson ...•..
Edward Coleman .•••• •George Johnson .•...•
Edward Coleman •.••• •George Johnson .•••..
Edward Coleman •••.. •George Johnson .••••.
Edward Coleman ..••• •George Johnson .••...
Edward Coleman .• • .• •George Johnson ••...•
Edward Coleman ••••• •George Johnson . .•.•.
Edward Coleman . .••. ·•George Johnson ...•••
Edward Cq1eman ••••• •George Johnson .••••
Edward Coleman ..••• •George Johnson .••••.
Edward Coleman •••• John Whlcher .•••••••
·Edward Coleman ..••• John Whlcher .•••••••
Edward Coleman .. . •• John Whlcher ..••••••
Ed ward Coleman ..• • • John Whlc.her .•••••••
Edward Coleman .... John Whlcher ••.•••
•Deceased.

'.

Grand
Secretary

261

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. Edward1.
Wm. H. Edward1.
Wm. H. Edward•.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Eldward1.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edward•.
Thoma• J'. Baker.
Thomae J. Baker.
Thomaa J'. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.

262

GRAND LODGES OF THE PNITEP STATES AND BRITISH AMERICA.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodges.

Grand Secretarlea.

Residences.

Organized

Alabama ...••...•• George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery •....• June 15, 1821
Alberta ........... Geo. Macdonald ....... Calgary ........... Oct. 12, 1905
Arizona ........•.. George J. Roskruge ..• Tucson ............ Mar. 25, 1882
Arkansas ......•.. ,Fay Hempstead ...... Little Rock •....... Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia ... W. A. DeWolf Smith .. New Westminster .. Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............ R. L. Gunn ............ Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado ........... Charles H. Jacobson ... De.nver ............ Aug. 2, 1861
Connecticut ....... Frank W. Havens .... Hartford .......... July
8, 1789
Delaware .........• V. V. Harrison ........Wilmington , .......June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbia .• Arvlne W. Johnston ...Washington ....... Feb. 19, 1811
Florida •..........• Wilber p, Webster ...• Jacksonville ....... Jµly
6, 1830
Georgia ........... W. A. Wolihin ........Macon ............. Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho ...........•.. Theophilus W. Randall Boise .............. Dec. 17, 1867
Illineis •......•....• Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point •...... April 8, 1840
Indiana ............ Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ...... Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa .........•...• Newton R. Parvin ..... Cedar Rapids ...... Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas •.......•••• Albert K. Wilson ......Topeka ............ Mar. 17, 1856
Kentucky .•.....•.•Henry Ban. Grant. ... Louisville .......... Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana .•••...•• Richard Lamb!!rt ...... New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine ......••.•. ,.Stephen Berry ........ Portland .......... June 1, 1820
Manitoba ...... , ... James A. Ovas ........Wlnnepeg ......... May. 12, 1876
Maryland ......••• George Cook ..........Baltimore ......... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts ...• Thos. W. Davis ...... Boston ............ Mar.
8, 1777
Michigan .......... Lou B. Winsor ........ Reed City ........• Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota ........• John Fishel ........... Saint Paul ........ Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi .....•.. Frederick G. Speed ....Vicksburg ......... July 27, 1818
Missouri ...•...••.• John R. Parson ....... St. Louis .......... May
4, 1821
Montana ........... Cornelius Hedges, Jr .. Helena ............ Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska ..•......•Francis E. White ..... Omaha ............ Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada ........••.•Edward D. Vanderleith.Carson ............ Jan. 16, 186&
New Brunswick ••• J. Twining Hartt ..... Saint John ......... Oct. 10, 1867
New Hampshire .... Harry M. Cheney .....Concord ........... July
8, 1789
New Jersey ....... Benj. F. Wakeileld .... Trenton ........... Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico .•..... Alpheus A. Keen ..... ,Albuquerque ...... Aug.
7, 1877
New York ......... Edward M. L. Ehlers.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina .... John c. Drewry ....... Raleigh ............ Dec. 12, 1T77
North Dakota .... , Walter L. Stockwell ... Fargo ..............June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ....... Thomas Mowbray ..... Halifax ........... Jan. 21, 1866
Ohio .............. Jacob H. Bromwell ... Cincinnati ........ Jan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma ........• Wm. M. Anderson ....Waurika .......... Nov. 10, 1892
Oregon .....•..•..• James F. Robinson .... Portland .......... Sept, 15, 1851
Pennsylvania ....•. John A. Perry .........Philadelphia ...... Sept. 26, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .. Nell MacKelvie ...... ,Summerside ...... June 24, 1875
Quebec ............Will H. Whyte ....... Montreal .......... Oct, 20, 1869
Rhode Island ....• s. Penrose Wiiiiams .. Providence ........June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ..... J. M. Shaw ........... ,Regina ............ Aug.
9, 1906
South Carolina .... o. Frank Hart. .......Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota .... Geo. A. Pettigrew ..... Sioux Falls ........ July 21, 1775
Tennessee ........• John B. Garrett. ..... ,Nashville .......... Dec. 27, 1813
Texas ............. John Watson ......... Waco ............. Dec. 20, 1837
Utah .............. c. B. Jacks ........... Salt Lake City ..... Jan. 17, 1872
Vermont •.........• Henry H. Hoss ....... Burlington ........Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia ...•......• Geo. W. Carrington ... Richmond .........Oct. 13, 1778
Washington ......• Horace W. Tyler ...... Tacoma ............ Dec.
8, 1858
West Virginia ..... fohn M. Collins ....... Charleston ......... May 11, 1865
Wisconsin ......... William W. Perry ..... Milwaukee ........ Dec. 18, 1843
Wyoming .........•Wm. L. Kuykendall ... Saratoga ..........Dec. 15, 11174

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
A bell ..•••••••••••. 146 Ukiah ••••••••••••• , .Mendocino.
Acacia ••••.••.••••• 92 Coloma ••••••••••.••• El Dorado.
Adin •..•••.••••••• 250 Adin ••••..•••••••••• Modoc.
.Alamo ..••••••••••• 122 Walnut Creek ••••..• Contra Costa.
Alameda •••••••.••• 167 Centerville •••••.•••• Alameda.
Alcatraz •.••••••••• 244 Oakland • , ••••••••••• Alameda.
Alhambra •••••••.•• 322 Alhambra • , • , •• , •••• Los .Angele1.
Alisal ..•••••.•••••• 321 Pleasanton •.•.•••.••• Alameda.
Alpha ............. .431 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Alta •...••••••.•••. 333 Bridgeport •••••.•••• Mono.
Alturas ....••••••.• 248 Altu;ras .•••••••••.•••Modoc.
Amity .'.••••••••••• 370 San Francisco ••••.••• San Franci1co,
Amador .••••.••.• , , 65 Jackson •••••• , • , •••• Amador.
Anaheim •..••••••.• 207 Anaheim , •••• , , , •••• Orange.
Anchor ...••.•••••. 273 Compton •• , • , , •• , •••• Los Angele1.
Antioch •••••.•.•••. 175 Antioch •••••••••• , •• Contra Costa.
Apollo .....•....••• 396 Alameda ••••• , •• , , ••• Alameda.
Arcata .•.•••.•••••• 106 Arcata ••••••••••• , , .Humboldt.
Arroyo •••••••••••. 27 4 .Arroyo Grande •••••••San Luis Obi1po.
Arlington .•••....•• 414 Los Angeles., •• ,, ..•• Los Angeles.
Artesia •••••••••••. 377 Artesia • , •••• , , ••• , •• Los .Angeles.
Ashlar ••.••.•••••.. 306 Colton • , , ............ San Bernardino.
Athens ••••..•.•.•. 228 Davisville •••• , ••• , , •Yolo.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa , ............ , .Los Angeles.
Bakersfield •...••••. 224 Bakersfield •••• , •• , ••. Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco •.••••• , San Francisco.
Bay View •.•••••.. 401 Oakland ••• , •.• , .•• , .Alameda.
Bear Mountain ••••• 76 Angels Camp •••••••• Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . • • • • • • • • 5 Benicia • , , • , , ••.••••• Solano.
Berkeley ....•••.•.. 363 Berkeley •••••••.•••• Alameda.
Bodie ............. 252 Bodie .......... , • , •• Mono.
Brawley ..•..•..•.. 402 Brawley •••.•••• , •• , .Imperial.
Brentwood •.•...••• 345 Brentwood , ••••• , , ••. Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ••••...•.. 225 East Oakland ••• , •••• Alameda.
Buckeye ••••. , ••••• 195 Winters •• , •• , ••• , ••• Yolo.

263

264
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR ... !A

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

Buena Park .•...... 357 Buena Park •.....•..• Orange.
Burbank .. ·........ .406 Burbank ..........•• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame •........• San Mateo.
Calexico ........... 412 Calexico ............. Imperial.
California • . . . • . • . . 1 San Francisco .... , .•. San Francisco.
Calrlveras ......... 78 San Andreas .....••.. Calaveras.
Callayomi ...• .••... 282 Middletown ......••.. Lake.
Calistoga •.•..•.... 233 Calistoga •........•.. Napa.
Carquinez .•.••..•.. 337 Crockett .•........... Contra Costa.
Cavite ......•.•..•• 350 Cavite .....••..•.... Philippine Island1.
Charity .....•...•. 362 Campbell ..•......•.. Sarita Clara.
Charter ·Rock ....... 410 Berkeley .......... : .. Alameda.
Chico ...••.....•... 111 Chico ............... Butte.
Chino Valley ...... 427 Chino ............... San Bernardino.
Claiborne •.......•. 185 Point Arena .•....... Mendocino.
Clay ...........• , .101 Dutch Flat .•........ Placer.
Clear Lake •..••.• ·.183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton .........•.. 119 Igo ..•............... Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ............•.. Fresno.
Coalinga •.••.•...•. 387 Coalinga ..• ; ..... ; ... Tulare.
Concord ...•...•... 117 Sacramento ....••.... Sacramento.
Confidence •..•.•... 203 Castroville •......... Monterey.
Consuelo •••....... 325 Escondido •...•...•.. San Diego.
Colusa .•......••.. 240 Colusa ........•...... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ...•....•.. Yuba.
Corona •........... 324 Pasadena ...........• Los Angeles.
Corregidor ...•..... 386 Manila ••....•....••. Philippine Islands.
Covelo •.•......••. 231 Covelo ....•.....•... ,Mendocino.
Covina ..••....•... 334 Covina .............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ...•..•...• 45 Crescent City ...•.... Del Norte.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ...•... ·San Francisco.
Curtis ...•.•....•.. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano •............. Kern.
Dinuba •.•...•...•. 385 Dinuba .............. Tulare.
Doric •............ 216 San Francisco •..•..•. San Francisco.
Downey .........•. 220 Downey .....•..••... Los Angeles.
Drytown ....•..•.. 174 Drytown .•.......... Amador.
Dunsmuir · •..•..••. 297 Dunsmuir ..........• , Siskiyou.
Durant ......•..... 268 Berkeley •.....•...•. Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... .422 Eagle Rock •..•...•.. Los Angeles.
East Belt ..••.•.••. 391 Tuolumne .....•.••.. Tuolumne.
East Gate .•..... .,290 Los Angeles ......•.. Los Angele1.
Eden ........•..•.. 113 San Leandro .••.....• Alameda.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Eel River ••........ 147 Fortuna ............. Humboldt.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ............ San Diego.
Elk Grove •....•... 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore •.....•.... 289 Elsinore •.......•.... Riverside.
Elysian .......... . .418 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs •..•........... Butte.
Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City •.......... Sutter.
Euc.alyptus •..... , .243 Haywards •.......... Alameda.
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ........•...• Placer.
Evening !:!tar ...... 186 Etna Mills ..........• Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ... ·......... Riverside.
Excel~ior •......... 166 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Exeter ............ 424 Exeter .......• : .•..• Tulare.
Fall brook ... , ..... 317 Fall brook .......•.... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Ferndale ......•...•. Jiumboldt.
Fidelity · .... ·....... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379. Fillmore ......•...... Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest ............. 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Fowler ..•......... 398 Fowler .............. Fresno.
Franklin •......•.. 143 ·courtland ...........•Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..•.. 376 South San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose .....•...... Santa Clara.
Fresno ..•.••...•.. 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship ..••.••.. 210 San Jose ...•.....•.. Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .••....... 336 Fruitvale .......•.... Alameda.
Fullerton •••.•••.••. 339 Fullerton ....••.••... Orange.
Galt ...•.•.....•... 267 Galt .•.......•...••. Sacramento.
Gardena ...•...... 372 Gardena .....••.•.... Los Angeles.
Georgetown ••••...• 25 Georgetown •......... El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne.
Glendora .......... 404 Glendora ............ Los Angeles.
Golden Gate •••••.. 30 San Francisco ; .••.... San Francisco.
Golden State •..•.. 338 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill •...•••..• 32 Lincoln •....•..••.••• Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton •..•......... Yolo.
Granite ......•... , 222 Rocklin •....••.•.••. Placer.
Gra~l Range ..•..• 59 Camptonvilie ..•.•... Yuba.
. Guadalupe •..•...•. 237 Guadalupe - .•..•.. : .Santa Barbara.
Hammonton ...... U. D. Hammonton •••••.•. ·Yuba.
Hanford •••••••... 279 Hanford •..•..•.•.••. Kings.
Harmony •..•.•..•• 164 Sierra City ..•...•..• Sierra.

265

266

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ........... , L a k e.
Hawaiian . . . . . . . . . . 21 Honolulu · · .......••. H awauan
..
Islande.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......•.. Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Franci'sco . . • . . • • . san F rancisco.
·
Hesperian ...... . .. 264 Santa Mari'& . . . . . . . . . san t a B arb ara.
Highland Park ...... 382 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hill '11 Ferry ...•... 236 N
ewman ......•...• ·<Stanislaus.
Hiram · . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 EI Dorado
EI D
d
· • ·• · · · ·..•
ora o.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood ......•. 355 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Holtville ..... .. .. . .425 Holtville .........••• Imperial.
Honolulu .... . .... .409 Honolulu .... . ....... Hawaii.
Hope . .............. 234 Beckwith . ........... PI u m as.
Hornitos . . . . . . . . . . . 98 Hornitos
Mari'
· · · · · ·· · ·· ·.. s· k' posa.
Howard ......... . . 96 Yreka
· · · · · · ......... is iyou
Hum?oldt •....... : 79 Eureka .... . ........ H~mboldt.
H~t~ngton Beach ... 380 Huntington B!laeh . ... Orange.
Illmoi.stown • . . . . . . . 51 Colfax ...... . .... .'.. Placer.
Imperial ..•.....•.. 390 Imperial .............Imperial.
Inglewood .. ....... . 421 Inglewood .. ~ ........ Los Angeles.
Inyo •..........•.. 221 Independence ......•. Inyo.
Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BO Ione ................ Amado r
Jeffers?n .......... 97 Laporte .. ...... ..... Plumas.'
Janesville ........... 232 Janesville .......... .Lassen.
Jewel
· · · · ·. · · ..... 374 San Francisco • • • • • . • • San Franc·sc
•
i
o.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy · · ·.. .. . . . . . . . . Santa CI ara.
Kerman .. ....... ... 420 Kerman .... ........ . Fresno.
K~ystone .......... 161 Milton ............. . Calaveras.
Kilauea . . . . . . • .
330 Hilo
H
''
I l
.
. ,
··•
· · · · · · · ·........ awauan sands.
K~ng David 11 , •••• • • 209 San Luis Obispo . . . . . San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon 11 •••• 260 San Francisco .. . .... .San Francisco.
La .Fayette •....... 126 Sebastopol .. . ........ Sonoma.
La Grange . . . . . . . . . 99 Merced .............. Merced.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ... ... .... ... San Diego.
Landmark . . . . .... . 253 Madison . .. . .. .. . .... Yolo.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno , ........... ....Fresno.
Lassen • .... .... : .. 149 Susanville .......... . Lassen.
Lau.rel . .. ... ...... 245 Willows ....•.......•. Glenn.
L~nngto:q · · .. · .... 104 El Monte .. . ....... .. Los Angeles.
L~berty · · .. · ....... 299 Santa Clara ...... . ... Santa Clara.
L~ndsay . . . ........ 416 Lindsay . .... . . ... .. ·.Tulare.
Liv~ Oak ......... 61 Oakland .. ...... .... . Alameda.
Lodi · · · · · · · · · · . . · . 256 Lodj ..... .. . . ... .. .. San Joaquin.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

267

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Lompoc ••....•.••. 262 Lompoc .............. Santa Barbara,
Long Beach .••..••. 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Los Angeles • • • . . • • • 42 Los Angeles .•.•... , • Los Angeles.
Los Banos ••..••.•. 312 Los Banos .....•..... Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara .
Loyalton ••........ 359 Loyalton ••.......••. Sierra.
Madera •... .. ...... 280 Madera •....•..•...•. Madera.
Madison •.• . ......• 23 Grass Valley .. .'...... Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ...... . Santa Barbara.
Manila •........... 342 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Marin •............ 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa ••.••..... 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez ..... '. ...... Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ............• Colusa.
McCloud ........... 430 McCioud ........ .. ... Siskiyou.
McKinley ......•... 347 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Mendocino .....•.•• 179. Mendocino ..•.••..•. Mendocino:
Meridian ........•. 182 Arbuckle ............ Colusa.
Midway ............ 426 Taft . ... .... ........ Kern.
Mill Valley •.••.•.• 356 Mill Valley •..•....•. Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ........ San .Francisco.
Mizpah ............ 378 Los Angeles .......•. Los Ange1e11.
Mokelumne Hill . . .. 298 Mokelumne Hill ;, ... . Calaveras.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama .. .' .. . .. "' ... Tehama.
Mone ta . . .......... 405 Los Angeles ..... . ... Los Angeles.
Monrovia •........ 308 Monrovia •........... Los Angeles.
Monterey •.. ....... 217 Monterey • ........... Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton •........... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ..... . ••.. •. 218 Livermore .. .... •. ... Alameda.
Mount Jackson .... . 2915 Guerneville . . ........ Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ..... 44 San .Francisco ........ San .Francisco.
Mountain Shade ..• 18 D.o wnieville •.. ....... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson . ........... Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma ... . ... .... 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval . . ... .. .. . ... 87 Vallejo .... . ......... Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ....•.•.....• San Bernardino.
Nevada .. .. . ... ... 13 Nevada City ........• Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Paskenta .... . .......Tehama.
Nicolaus . ... .... .. 129 Wheatland ........... Yuba.
North Butte . .. . ... 230 Gridley ........ .. . .. Butte.
North East ... .. .. . 266 Fort Bidwell . ... .... ,Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ...... ... .... Shasta.

268
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOUNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

North Star •......• 91 Fort Jones .........•• Siskiyou.
Norwalk ••........ 315 Norwalk ...........• .Los Angeles.
Oakdale •.•...•.... 275 Oakdale .••.......•.. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .•....... 215 Alameda . ·: ..........Alameda.
Oakland •.......•.. 188 Oakland •............ Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park •...... 369 Oceanpark ....... . .... Los Angeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu •.....•..•.. Oahu.
Oceanside ... ; ....•. 381 Oceanside ........... San Diego.
Olive Branch .• ..... 269 Tulare .............• Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ••......... 301 Ont~rio •..........•.. San Bernardino.
Ophir ........ •... . 33 Murphy's ......•....• Calaveras.
Orange Grove •..... 293 Orange ...........•.. Orange.
Oriental •.•...•.... 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland •........... 265 Orland .............. Glenn.
Orosi •..........•.. 383 Orosi •..•...•.•..•.•. Tulare.
-\Jroville •........... 103 Oroville .. .....•..•.. Butte.
uxnard .••.•....... 341 Oxnard ...•.......... Ventura.
Pacific •.•. : ...•... 136 San Francisco .....•.. San Fran cieco.
Pacific Grove ..•.•.. 331 Pacific Grove ·.........Monterey.
Pajaro •........... 110 Watsonville ..•..•...•Santa Cruz.
Palestine •........ .'351 Los Angeles •. •. . •...•Los Angeles.
Palmyra .. ·. . . . . . . . 26 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Alto • ... . ..... 346 Palo Alto •........... Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes •...... 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco ... . ..•. San Francisco.
Parnassus •......... 388 San Francisco . ....... San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles ........••San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn .•......... 258 Penryn ...........•. .,Placer.
Pentalpha .....•... 202 Loe Angeles • ...•.•...Los Angeles.
Perris ............ .411 Perris . . ............. Riverside.
Petaluma •......... 180 Petaluma ....... .. ... Sonoma.
Phoenix .....• ... .. 178 San Bernardino . . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole .......•..... 353 ·Pinole· ...••.........• Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ...... : .. .429 Pittsburg ...... . . .. .. Contra Costa.
Plumas • . . . . . • . . . . . 60 Quincy ............••Plumas.
Pomona ...•.....•. 246 Pomona ..•.....••..• .Los Angeles.
Porterville .•.....•. 303 Porterville .... .. ...• . Tulare.
Presidio .....•..... 354 San Francisco •....•.. San Francisco.
Reading •.•...•.... 254 Redding • • ...••....•. Shasta.
Redlands •.•.••.... 300 Redlands .........••.•San Bernardino.

Lodge.

No. Post Office.

County.

Redondo ..•...•..•. 328 Redondo .. . ... • ...... Los Angeles.
Redwood City ••.... 168 Redwood City .•..•... San Mate,o.
Reedley ........... 304 Reedley •....••..... .Fresno.
Richmond ..••..... 375 San Francisco •...... San Francisco.
Rio Vista .......... 208 Rio Vista ......•....• Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star ••.....• 83 Forest Hill .......... Placer.
Rose's Bar ..•••.•••. 89 Smartsville •... • • • .•..Yuba.
Roseville ........ .. .433 Roseville ..............Placer.
Russian River •.•..• 181 Windsor ..... . ....... Sonoma.
Sacramento .......• 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena •••.. ; • 93 St. Helena .........•. Napa.
Saint John's • ..•• .. 37 Yreka •...•....••...•Siskiyou,
Salinas •..••....... 204 Salinas •............. Monterey.
6an Benito ...•••.•. 211 Hollister •..•.....•... San Benito:
Ban Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura ••..•...... • . Ventura.
Ban Diego • . . . . • . .. 35 San Diego ........... San Diego.
San Dimas . .. .. .. .. 428 San Dimas ... . . ...... Los Angeles.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger •...•.•........ Fresno.
San Bernardino . ..• . 348 San Bernardino .....• San Bernardino.
SaY' Fernando •.•... 343 Fernando ..•........• Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..•.. 360 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
San Jacinto •.•...•. 338 San Jacinto ....•.... Riverside.
San Joaquin ••.•.•• 19 Stockton ............. San Joaquin.
San Jose . • . •. ..• • .. 10 San Jose •. •...•• •••. Santa Clara.
San Mateo •..•...•. 226 San Mateo .•..••••... San Mateo.
San Miguel •.....• 285 San Miguel •• ...•••.. San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro ...•. ... . 3311 San Pedro •.. •..• .... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana ••..••... 241 Santa An.._ ......•.... Orange.
Santa Barbara •.•.. 192 Santa Barbara •.• ..•. Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz •..•..... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia •.•...• . 302 Kings City .•.•.. . •. Monterey.
Santa Monica •..... 307 Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles.
Santa Paula .•..... 291 Santa Paula ........•Ventura.
Santa Rosa ". . ...... 57 Santa Rosa •......... Sonoma.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria •........... , San Luis Obispo.
Selma •••.••.•• . .•. 277 Selma ••.•.. . .....••• Fresno.
Sequoia ..••...•..•. 349 Oakland ...•. ·...•.... Alameda.
Sierra Madre ....... 408 Sierra Madre ......... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley •...•. 184 Sierra ville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon •...........•. . Solano. ·
Silver Gate • .....•. 296 San Diego •...... .. • . San Diego.
Silver Trowel. .. . ... 415 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.

269

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

270

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

I oclro.
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Sincerity ••........ 132 Greenville ........•. . Plumas.
Sisson ••. , .......•. 310 Sisson .........•.•... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford ....•..... Colusa.
Solano .•.......... 229 Vallejo •...........•. Solano.
Sotoyome •......... 123 Healdsburg . . . . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles ...•..... .Los Angelee.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 867 South Pasadena .. . . .. Los Angelee.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
South West ........ 283 National City ........ San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco ...•..•. San Francisco.
Stanislaus ......... 206 Modesto ..........••. Stanislaus.
Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun .............. Solano.
Summit ... ... . ... .. 112 Knights Ferry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset •............ 352 Los Angeles .. ~ ...... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley . . .. 235 Cedarville ... . ....... Modoc.
Table Mountain .... 124 Cherokee ............ Butte.
Tehachapi ......... 313 Tehachapi ........... Kern.
Tehama .'........... 3 Sacramento ...... . ... Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona ............•. Riverside.
Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ............• Sonoma.
Texas ............. 46 San Juan •••...••.•• San Benito.
Traver .•.......•.. 294 Kingsburg ........... Fresno.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville ..... . ...•Trinity.
Truckee ........... 200 Truckee ............. Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora .......... . ... Tuolumne.
Turlock ............ 395 Turlock ............. Stanislaus.
Tuscan ..•......... 261 Williams ; ........... Colusa.
Union . .......... .. 58 Sacramento .. . ....... Sacramento.
Unity ...•......... 368 Glendale ............ .Los Angeles.
University .... . ... . 394 Los Angeles ..... . ... Los · Ange1es.
Upland ............. 419 Upland .............. San Bernardino.
Vacaville ........•. 134 Vacaville ............ Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles . .. . ... . .,Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Vesper •. . ....... . . 84 Red Bluff ............Tehama.
·
Veteran ........... 373 Sawtelle ............. Los Angeles.
Visalia ............ 128 Visalia . ... .. .. ..... . Tulare.
Vitruvius ........•. 145 Bloomfield ........... Sonoma.
Volcano ........... 56 Volcano ............. Amador.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Waucoba .......... 413 Big Pine ............. Inyo.

No.

:Post Office.

County.

W1loome ••.•••.... 255 Lemoore ...•.••....• Kings.
W11torn Star . . . • . • 2 Shasta .........•.••. Shasta.
W11t Gate .....•... 335 Los Angeles ....•..•. Loe Angeles.
Wa•t Lake . • ••..... 392 Los Angeles ..••..••• Los Angeles.
Whittier ••••... • ... 323 Whittier ••.....•.••.• Los Angeles.
Wllllt1 • • •••.... . .. . 365 Willits ...•.......•.. Mendocirlo.
Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington •.......•. Los Angelee.
Wlnnedumah ....... 287 Bishop ..•..•...•.•.. Inyo.
Woodbridge ••...•.. 131 Woodbridge •.....••. San Joaquin.
Woodland •••...•... 156 Woodland •.......... Yolo.
Verba Buena ....... 403 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Volo •••••....•..... 81 Yolo ••..•.........•• Yolo.
\' nrk •............. 423 Watts ..... . ......... Los Angeles.
\'o•emite •......... 133 Coulterville ........•. Mariposa.
\"ount ............. 12 Napa •........•...... Napa.
V11ba .......•.. .. :. 39 Marysville ........... Yuba.

271

LOCATION OF LODGES

272

GRAN'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

l'u•t Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically. Arranged.

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Ad.in ............•.••.. •• Adin . . ......... . .. . .. . ..... 250
Alhambra ............... Alhambra ................•. 322
Alameda .........•••.... Oak Grove ••....•••.•.••.... 215
''
.. ... . . ....... . Apollo ......... . ............ 396
Alklghany ........•...... Forest •..••.. .• ...........• ·66
Alturas •.. ...•..•. • ••... Alturas ........ . ........•.. 248
Anaheim ................ Anaheim .................• .. 207
Anderson •..•..........•• Mount Shasta ..•...... .• .... 281
Angels Camp •.•.....••.• Bear Mountain .•.•......... 76
Antioch ................. Antioch ........ : ..... . .. .· .. 175
Arroyo Grande •.....•.•.• Arroyo ........ .. . . ....... .. 274
Auburn •.•......•.•.••••• Eureka . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 16
Arbuckle ...............• Meridian .......... ... ...... 182
Arcata ............•.•.•. Arcata •.................... 106
Artesia .............•.••. Artesia ....... . ... . ...... .. . 377
Azusa •.•.. .• ....••...••. Azusa •........••....• . .... . 305
Bakersfield ...............Bakersfield ..•........•...... 224
Beckwith .........•••...• Hope . ' ................. .. ..234
Benicia .•..•......•••.•••Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley •....•...•...••. Durant ........•...•........ 268
Berkeley ..•...•......... Berkeley ..... . ............. 363
Berkeley . . . .. . .. ..... . .. Cha.r ter Rock .. ........ . ... .410
Big Pine .. ... . .. ..... . . . Waucoba ............. . .... .413
Biggs ................... Emmanuel ............. ... .. 318
Bishop . ..•.. .. • ...•..... Winnedumah .•............. 287
Bloomfield ..•.... •.. .. . .. Vitruvius .................. 145
Bodie ............ • .... • ..Bodie ...................... 252
Brawley .•• .•.. •• •. . •.... Brawley ........•. .. . . .. .•. .402
Brentwood •.......•.....• Brentwood ..... ... ......... 345
Bridgeport ........... . ...Alta .....•... . ....•...• . ... 333
Buena Park ...•..•...... . Buena Park ................ 357
Burbank .. ... ...••....•.. Burbank ....... . ............ 406
Burlingame .......... . ... Burlingame ........... . .. : .. 400
Calexico .......... ·...... . Calexico ... ... ...... ...... .. 412
Calistoga . .. ... . .. •• . •... Calistoga • : ...• • .•..•. . .... • 233
Cambria ............• •• .. San Simeon ... . ......... . .•• 196

Lodge.

273
No.

(Jampbell •. . .•.•••••••••• Charity •.•• • ..• • .••• •• .•.. . 362
\)&mptonville ............ Gravel Range ............... 59
Oaetroville •••.•••• , • , • , , .Confidence •• • . , ••.•••••.....203
Oavite, P. I ............... Cavite ......................350
Oedarville ............... Surprise Valley ............. 235
(lenterville •••••• , , •• ; ••• .AlamPda .•.....•.••• , , ..•.. 167
(Jherokee ...•.••••••••••• Table Mountain .••...•. . ... 124
Chinese Camp •.•••••••••• George Washington ......... 62
Chico . .....••• , •••••• , ...Chico .........•.•.•.•...... 111
Chino ....................Chino Valley . . ..... .. ...... .427
Cloverdale .•.•• , ••••••••• Curtis •...........••••..•... 140 ·
Clovis ...... . . ... .. . •..•. Clovis ...................... 417
Coalinga ..• .. • •••••••. , •• Coalinga •...•.•..•..•.••... 387
Coulterville .............. Yosemite . ... . .......... .... 133
Uolfax ..••...•••.••••••• .Illinoistown ••....••... •.. .. 51
Corona . • .• . ..•• . ••.••.•• Temescal •.........•••...... 314
Uourtland •..•••••••.•••• .Franklin .. . •... ... .•....•.. 143
Covelo ....•..•••••••.•••• Covelo ...•......•••.•.••.•..231
Colusa ....• • •..•••••••••• Colusa ..•....• . ....• •. ...•.. 240
Colton •...•••••••••••••• .Ashlar .. .. ...• ... •.... .. • ...306
Covina . . ..... .. ..........Covina ..................... 334
Compton .................Anchor ..................... 278
Coloma . . .•.•..••• • •••••• o\.cacia .. .. ... ....•.... • .. ..• 9"2
Corning ....••••••••••••• Olivet ................ • ..... 364
Crescent City ..••.••• • .•• Crescent ............. .•. . .. 45
Crockett .... .... . ..... ...Carquinez . , ........ ....... .. 337
Davisville ............... Athens ................ .... . 22S
Delano ...••••..••••••••• Delano .. .... .. .. . ... • .•.... 309
Dinuba ...••.••...••••... Dinuba .. .. . ...•........... . 385
Dixon ...•..••••••••••••• Silveyville ..........••. , •.. , 201
Downey .. ..••..•••..•.•• Downey ••............... . .. 220
Downieville .••••••••••••• Mountain Shade ... •• . .... , . 18
Drytown •. .•.•• •• ••••••• .Drytown .......•..••....... 174
Dutch Flat •..•••••••.••• Clay ......... .. ........ ... .. 101
Dunsmuir .... ..... .. ... ..Dunsmuir .. ... . ..... . ... . ... 297
Eagle Rock ...............Eagle Rock .............. ..• 422
East Oakland ... • ..•.. • •• Brooklyn .........••........ 225
Elk Grove .•....•.••.•••• Elk Grove ..... • , . • •. ••. . ... 173
Elsinore •..••.•.••••••••. Elsinore ... • •...... • ... •.... 289
El Centro •.. •.. •••..••.•. El Centro . .. .. . ....•.. . .•.. . 384
El Dorado •.••...••.••. , .Hiram ......•. • .....•..•... 43
El Monte ..••.••..• • •• • •• Lexington .. ••.. ...• • ..•.... 10-.l
Escondide ..•••.•••••• , , , .Consuelo ...... , . , ..•.•..• . . 325
Etna Mill ...••••••••. , •• , Evening Star ......•..•..... 186
18

..

IJOCA TION OF LODGES

274
Post Office.

..

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.

Eureka ..•..••.•• , ••.• , • ,Humboldt . . . • • . • . • . . . . . . . . . 79
Exeter ...........•••.•..• Exeter .. ... . , .............. 424
Fallbrook .•. , ••••••••••• .Fallbrook ....•.•..•....•..•. 317
Fernando ......••.••••••• San Fernando ..•............ 343
Ferndale ....•...• , .••••..Ferndale .....•••.•..•........ 193
Fillmore .....•••.•••••.. ,Fillmore .. '. .•..•.•••........ 379
Forbestown •...••..••••.• Forbestown ...•.........•... 50
Folsom ......•.••.•••••.• Natoma ......•............. 64
Fort Bidwell ..••....••••• North East .......... . ...... 266
Fort Bragg ...•••...••••• Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones .............. ,North Star ................. 91
l<,orest Hill .............. Rising Star ................. 83
Fortuna ................. Eel River ............ ..... . 147
Fowler .................. Fowler ..................... 398
Fresno ...•..• : •.••...•••. Fresno ......•..••.......... 247
''
.....•............ Las Palmas ................. 366
Fruitvale ...•••••••.•••••Fruitvale ......•.•.......... 336
Fullerton ......•••••••••• Fullerton ...•••...••........ 339
Galt .....................Galt ....•....••.•••....... .. 261
Gardena ....•..••••.••• , .Gardena ....••••.•••........ 372
Georgetown ...••••••••••• Georgetown' •• , • . • • • • • . . . . • . . 25
Gilroy ........•.••••••••• Keith ....•.••••.••..•...•.. 187
Glendale .•..••• , • , , •• , , •• Unity •.•..•.•••.••••••..•.• 368
Glendora ....• ~· ... , ...... Glendora ................... 404
Grafton ................. Grafton .................... 141
Grass Valley , .• , , . , •••• , .Madison • . . • • • • • . • • . • . • • . • . . 23
Gr.e enville ...•..•.• , ••••• Sincerity ...•..•.........••. 132
Griuley ......•.•••••••••• North Butte •..••....•...... 230
Guadalupe ........... , ••• Guadalupe .................. 237
Guerneville ..••• , •••••••• Mount Jackson ••.•....•...• 295
Hammonton ............• .Hammonton .... ..... ..... . U. D.
Hanford ....•. , , •• , , •• , •• Hanford ...•.•.....•...•.•.. 279
Haywards ••.••• , •• , ••• , , Eucalyptus •••.••.••.•...... 243
Healdsburg •.. , , ••• , .• , , .Sotoyome ................... 123
Hilo, H. I. ........ , , , , ••• Kilauea ..................... 330
Hornitos ...••.••• , • , •.• , .Hornito.s ...••..••.•••.....• 98
Hollister ...•....• , • , .....San Benito ..•..••.•........ 211
Hollywood •.•.. , •••.• , ••• Hollywood ...•••.•••........ 355
Holtville ................. Holtville ...... .. ........... 425
Honolulu, H. I .••• , •• , •••• Hawaiian . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Honolulu, H. I. , •• , , , , •••• Oceanic ....••••.•.•..•..... 371
Honolulu ................ Honolulu ................... 409
Huntington Beach • , , ••••. Huntington Beach ••••....•.. 380
Huntington Park.:.......• Rising Light .....•........•. 397

Post Office.

Lodge.

275
No.

Igo ...........••.•••••••. Clinton ..................... 119
Imperial ........•••.•.... Imperial .......•...•.•..•.•. 390
Independence ...•.•..• , •• l.Byo ••••.• , •.•• , • , , •.• , ..•.. 221
Inglewood ................ Inglewood .•.........••..... 421
Ione ........•..•.......•• Ione • , ••...... , ••• , .• , ..•. , 80
Jackson ......•...••••••. Amador ••....••••...•.•.. , • 65
Janesville ................ Janesville ...•..••.••••..... 232
Kerman ............. , .... Fresno ..•....••.....•...••. 420
Kingsburg .•••.••.• , , •• , •Traver , , .....•............. 294
Kings City ............... Santa Lucia ••.• , ........ , .. 302
Knights Ferry .• , , , ••• , •• Summit ... , .••• , , ..•. , •. , ... 112
Lakeport .....•.••••• , , .• Hartley .•....••• , , , .. , , , •.• 199
La Mesa .. . ............. Le. Mesa .................... 407
Laporte ... , ••...• , , • , , , ,Jefferson ....•.•• , • • .••.••.. 97
Lemoore •..•... , •• , ,, • , , .Welcome , . , ..• , .•. , . , , ..... 255
Lincoln ...••...• , • , , • , , • , Gold Hill •..•.•..•.••....• , , 32
Linden ...... , ..... ·...... Valley ...... . ............... 135
Lindsay ........... , ..... Lindsay .................. , .416
Livermore •..•.••••.• , , •. Mosaic ..••.•....••..... , ... 218
Lodi .........•• , •. , , , , , , .Lodi ••...•.... , • , ... , , . , , .. 256
Lompoc ..•••.....•. , , , • , ,Lompoc •..•....••. , ••.•• , ... 262
Lower Lake •.•••.••••. , , Clear Lake • , .•• , , , , , .••• , , •. 188
Long Beach ..••.•• , • , , , , ,Long Beach •• ·.,.,,,, •• , .•••• 327
"
••••••••• , • , • ,Palos Verdes •..••. , ••.•••... 389
Los Angeles • , , , ••••• , . , , .Los Angeles ••.••.. , , , • , ••.• 42
"
..•....• , .••..Wilmington ....•.•. , ..... , .. 198
''
............. ,Pentalpha ....... , ....... , . . 202
''
......... , ... ,Southern California .. , .. , , .. 278
''
............. . East Gate ... , ..... , .... , , . ,290
''
..... .. ... , .. ,Hollenbeck ..... , , . , , , ... , . , 319
''
........ ,, ... ,South Gate ...... , .. ,, , .. , . . 320
........... , .. Vallee de France .......... .. 329
"
''
........... , . . West Gate ............. , ... . 885
''
............. ,Palestine . , ...... ,, . , . , . , .. . 351
''
............. ,Sunset .................. , .. 352
''
............ , ,Golden State . , ... , , , , , ..... . 358
''
............. , .. .Mizpah ...... , ....... , , .... .378
''
. . ........... Highland Park ...... , , .. , , . , 382
''
.......•..••.. West Lake ........•••.• , ..•. 392
''
..••.•••.••.•• University •.......•.••.. , ... 394
''
............. . Moneta .................. , . . 405
"
.............. Arlington ...•..•..•.. , .... , 414
"
••....•...••.• Silver Trowel. ..•.•...• , .... 415
''
............. . Elysian .................... . 418

'

LOCATION OF LODGES

276
Post Otnce.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE 01'" CALIFORNIA

No.

Los Banos ••••••••••••••• Los Banos .••...••.•.•...... 312
Los Gatos ................ Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton •..• , ............Loyalton ...•••....•......•. 359
Marysville .•••••••••••••• Corinthian . • • • . • • • ... . • • . . . . 9
''

••••..•••••••• Yuba ............ ..........• 39 ·

Madison .••••••••••••••.•Landmark •......••.• . .•..•. 253
Manila •••.••••.••••••••• M::.nila, P. I .••..••••••....•. 342
'~

... . ........•..... Corregidor .................. 386

Maxwell ..•.. , ••••• , .••••Maxwell •....••.••.••..•.... 288
Madera .. • •. , ••••••••••••Madera ..•...•••..•.•..•...• 280
Mariposa •.•••••••••••••• Mariposa ...•••..•••........ 24
Martinez ..... ............ Jriartinez .................... 41
Mc Cloud .•.•.•••••••...• Mc Cloud ........... ..... . . . 430
Merced •..••.•••••••••••• La Grange . . • . . • . . • . . . . • . . . . 99
Mendo.cino ••, ............ Mendocino ...•.............. 179
Middletown ..............Callayomi ........••......•. 282
Milton •.••.•••••• , .......Keystone •..•..•..•.•....••. 161
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley ................. 356
Millville ....... ... ... , .. ,Northern Light •• ·........... 190
Mokelumne Hill •••••••••• Mokelumne Hill •..•....•••• 298
Monrovia ••••••••••••••• ,Monrovia .....••••.•..•·••.•. 308
Monterey •••••.••••••••• ,Monterey ••.•..••••••••••••. 217
Mountain View ...........Mountain View ..............194
Modesto ••.•••.• , •••••••• Stanislaus .•.•••.•••••..• • .. 206
Murphy's •••••.••••••••• ,Ophir ...••.•.••••..••.••••. 38
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa ................... ,Yount .... ..... . . ........ .. . 12
Newman ••.•• ,, ..........Hill's Ferry .•..••... •.. •.. . 236
Needles ................ .,Needles ............. . ...... 326
Nevada City ............. Nevada .................... 13
Norwalk ...••••••.••••••• Norwalk •.....•....••...... 315
Oakland ••.••••••.••...•• Live Oak .•.•..•.•••..•..•• 61
''

................. Oaklarld

.................. . 188

Brooklyn .................... 225
" .•....•••••••••••
Sequoia ... • • ..•••. .•• ..• ... 349
" .•...•••.•••..•••
•••••••••••••••••
Alcatraz
......•••.......•... 244
"
................. Bay View . .. .............. .401
"
....•.••.•••.••••Yerba Buena ................ 403
"
Oakdale •..••••••.••••.•• Oakdale •••....••.....•..... 275
Oceanpark . ... .... .• ..... . Ocean Park ... . . • ... . . .... . 369
Oceanside ................Oceanside •...•••.•••••••••. 381
Ontario ••.•..•••••••••••• Ontario ....•••..•.••••..... 301
Orange •.••••.•••••••••••• Orange Grove ••.....•.....•. 293
Orland ...••••••••••••••• Orland •.....••• • .•......... 265

Poat Otnce.

Lodge.

277
No.

Oroei ...•....••.••.••••••Orosi •••••.•.••.•••••••••••. 383
Oroville ......•.••••••••• Oroville ••...•••.••..••••••• 103
Oxnard .......••••••••••• Oxnard..•...• .' . •....•••••.•. 341
Pacific Grove ..••.••••.•. Pacific Grove •..•••..•..•... 331
Palo Al to .....•..•••••••• Palo Al to •..•..•..•.••. . ... 346
i>askenta ..... .... ..• .. ... Newville •..•..•.....•••.••. 205
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ........... " ... 286
Pasadena ....•••••••••.•• Pasadena •..•..••••..•..••. 272
Pasadena ........•.•••.•• Corona .....................324
Paskenta .................Newville ....••....•........ 205
Penryn ••••••••• , • , , , , , •• Penrhyn , •• , ••••••••••• .•• .. 258
Perris ............ ..... .. Perris . . .... .. .. .... ... ...... 411
Petaluma •••••••••••••••• Petaluma •••..• , ••••••••..• 180
Pinole .....•••••••• , , • , •• Pinole •••..•••.•••...••••.. 353
l'ittsburg ............•... Pittsburg ................... 429
Pleasanton .. , , , , ••••••••• Alisal •••••.•.••..•..•••.... 321
Placerville •• , • , ••••• , •••• Palmyra . . . . . . • • • • . • . . . . . . . . 26
Point Arena •• • •••••••••• Claiborne • "'·' •••••••.••• •• •185
Pomona ..••••••••• , •••• .,Pomona .••.•••.•.••••..••.. 246
Porterville ... , .•••••••••• Porterville ..••••••••••.••.• 303
Quincy .•. . . , , .•• , , •••• , •Plumas . . . • . • • . • • . . • . • • . • . • 60
Redondo : ....• , •..••••• , .Redondo ... ' ·' •.••••.••••••. 828
Redding ..•.• , , • , , , •••••• Reading •.•...•.•••••••••••. 254
Redlands .....•••.••••••• Redlands • , •.• : .•••••...•••. 300
Reedley ................. Reedley .......... . ......... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff .•••...•••.• , ••• Vesper •••.•..•••..•.••..••• 84
Hichmond .. , , , . . .........Alpha .... .. . ... . .. . . .. ..... 431
Richmond •....... ... .. , .McKinh1y ..... ..•... ..••... 347
Rio Vista ................ Rio Vista .................. 208
Riverside ..•.... . ••• , .••• ETergreen .•..••••....•••.•. 259
Rocklin •.....•••.•••.• , .Granite .....................222
Hoseville .................Roseville . . . . .. . .... ........ 432
Sacramento •••• , , • , • , •••• Tehama • • • . • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • 3
''
..•.••... , .•• ,Waehington ................ 20
''
''
''

... , ....•.... •Sacramento ................. 4:0
..•.•.•.•.. , . . u ·n ion ...................... 58
......•.. , •.. . Concord ................... . 117

Saint Helena ............ Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas ............. Calaveras .................. 78
San Bernardino •.•••••••• Phoenix .••..••.•........... 178
''
.......•. . San Bernardino .... ... ..... . 348
San Diego •..•••.•..•••• ,San Diego •.. •.• ...• • ... •. .. 35
''
.............. . Silver Gate .... .. ... ... .... . 296

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

278
Po1!1t Office.

Lodge.

No.

San Dimas ........ . ..... San Dimas· ..... . ....... .. .. . 428
San Francisco ..••••.••••• California • . • • • • • . . • • . . . . . . . l
''
........... . Parfaite Union . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
''
........... . Occidental ................. 22
''
........... . Golden Gate ........... . .... 30
''
........... . Mount Moriah .............. -4:.4
''
........... . Fidelity ................... . 120
''
. , ... ...... . Hermann ................. .. 127
''
............ Pacific ............. ... .... . 136
''
........... . Crockett .................. . 139
''
. . ......... . Oriental ................... . 144
... .. ....... Excelsior ..... .. .... . ....... 166
''
''
........... . Mission ................... . 169
''
........... . South San Francisco ....... . 212
''
........... . Doric . . ................... . 216
"
........... . Speranza Italiana .......... . 219
'•
, ........... King Solomon's ............. 260
'•
.... , ....... Starr King ................. 344
''
........... . Presidio ....... . ........... . 354
''
........... . San Francisco ............. . 360
''
........ .·... Amity .................... . 370
''
........... . Jewel ..................... . 374
''
........... . Richmond ................. . 375
''
........... . Parnassus .......... .... .... . 388
''
........... .Balder .................... . 393
San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ................ 338
San Jose •.•...•.•.•••..•• San Jose ..... . .... . . ... .... 10
1
''
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • } riendship
.. ... .......... . . 210
''
................ . Fraternity ................. . W9
San Juan ................Texas ... ..... ...... ... ..... 46
San Leandro .•••.....•.••Eden . .. .......•.•........ .. 113
San Luis Obispo •••..•...• King David's •.............. 209
San Mateo ............... Ban Mateo ................. 226
San Miguel .... .. . ........San Miguel ................. 285
San Pedro ................San Pedro .. .. ..•......... .. 332
San Rafael ......•...••••. Marin ......•..•............ 191
Santa Ana ...••....••.•• ,Santa Ana .. . ...............241
Santa Barbara .. ... ...... Santa Barbara ..... ....... . . 192
''
.......... . Magnolia . ........ ...... .... 242
Santa Cruz ....•..•.•....• Santa Cruz ......•.••.•..... 38
Santa Clara ...•....• ; •.•. Liberty •.. • ••..•••..•...... 299
Santa Maria ......•..•••• Hesperian •.•.•..••..•..•... 264

Post Office.

Lodge.

279
No.

Santa Monica ••.••••••••• Santa Monica ...............307
Santa Paula •••••.•••••••. Santa Paula ................ 291
Santa Rosa .............. Santa Rosa ................. 57
Salinas ........•..•...••• Salinas .....••....••..•..... 204
Sanger ..... .. .. ..........Sanger ......................316
Sawtelle ....••..•....••••Veteran .•..•..........•.... 373
Sebastopol ••.••..••.••••• La Fayette .....••....•.•... 126
Selma ... •. •....•••••.••••Selma ..............•....... 277
Shasta . . ...••.•....•.••.• Western Star . • • • . . • . • . . • . .. 2
Sierra City ...•.•.....•.•• Harmony ... . ............... 164
Sierra Madre ............. Sierra Madre ............... 408
Sierraville ............... Sierra Valley ............. '. .184
Sisson . .... ...............Bis11on .• •••....•..••.•.•.•... 310
Smartsville .•.•.••.••...•..Bose 's Bar .............•... ·. 89
South Pasadena ...........South Pasadena •......•..... 367
South San Francisco .•.•..• Francis Drake . .••• .. ..•.•.. 376
Sonoma ....•••..•••..•..• Temple . . . . . . • . . • . • • . • . • . . . . 14
Sonora .......•.•.•.. , •••• Tuolumne • . . . . . . • . • • • . • . . . . 8
Stockton .. . ............... Ban Joaquin .......•....•..• 19
"
................. Morning Star .............. 68
Stony Ford •••••...•••••. Snow Mountain •.....•...... 271
Susanville •••••..•••••••• Lassen ..................... 149
Sutter Creek ............. Henry Clay ................. 95
Suisun ...•.••.•.•••.••• , .Suisun ....... , . . . • . . • . . . . . . 55
Taft ..............••••.•• Midway ............. .... ... 426
Tehama .. ....•.••••••••• .Molino .........•........... 150
Tehachapi •••.••.•.••••.•Tehachapi •.•••....•. . ...•.. 313
Truckee ..•..••••.••••••• Truckee ...•.•.......••..... 200
Tulare .....•..••••••••••• Olive Branch .......•• . .•... 269
Tuolumne .... •............East Belt .................. 391
Turlock ..................Turlock ....... .... .. .... ... 395
Ukiah ..............•••.• Aliell ................. , .... 146
Upland .. ................ Upland .. .. ....... .. .. ... . U. D.
Vallejo ... ...••...... •• .• Naval ..•.....•......... .. .. 87
''
... ........ .... ... Solano ........ .... ......... 229
Vacaville ......•.•••...•• Vacaville ....... . .......... .134
Ventura ..............••. San Buenaventura ........... 214
Visalia ... . ........••.•••Visalia ......._•............. 128
Volcano ................. Volcano .................... 56
\Valnut Creek ............ Alamo ..................... . 122
Watsonville .•............ Pajaro •.....•....... . ...... 110
Watt s .. ................•. York .. . .. ... . .. . .......... .42'.l
Weaverville ......••.•••. Trinity ...........•......... 27

280

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Post office.
Lodae.
No.
Wheatland ..•..• • •••••••• Nicolaus . ..•.••..••.••.•..• 129
Whittier •••..••.•. • •.•••• Whittier •••.•••..••..• • ••... 323
Winters .••••..••••••.••. Buckeye ....................195
Willits •.• . . • .•••••••••.• Willits •..•••••.•••...••.... 365
Willows .......... . ..... ,.Laurel ..................... 245
Windsor ..••..•.•••.•••••Russian River .•.....••...... 181
Williams ....... . ..........Tuscan . .••.•.....••.•...... 261
Wilmington •.•· ••••••••••.Wilmington •••••.••..•.•. . .. 198
Woodbridge ••••••••••••• Woodbridge ..••.••••••.••.. 131
Woodland •.••• • ••••.•••. Woodland •• • •••.•••.•••.• . . 156
Yolo ..... ; .•.•••••••••••.Yolo ... . •..•..•...•.••• . •.• 81
Yreka ...... . ............ St. John's .................. 37
''
. . ... . ............ . Howard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City • •.. .. • •.. . •••. Enterprise ••••••••••. • ..•• . • 70

REPOR T
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1912

Bv EDWARD H. HART

'Iii the M. ·. JV.'. Grand Lodge, 1''. and A. M., of Califwnia:

ALABAMA, 1911.
The Ninety-first Annual Communication was held in the Masonic
I cmple in the city of Montgomery, December 5 and 6, 1911-M.'. w:.
Brother Lawrence H. Lee, Grand Master, presiding.
The Grand Master, in opening his annual address, says :
"Considered only as an institution, Masonry may be said to be
n voluntary association of individuals for mutual benefit and mutual
Improvement, governed by laws, customs and obligations, self imposed,
lo secure justice, fraternity, mutual happiness, and the just government
11ntl perpetuity of the institution itself. In other words, we represent
1111 ideal republic where mutual obligation, mutual interest and mutual
1ervice secure fraternity and the greatest good to the whole.
"The bond -0f union which securts this permanency in so large
11 body of men, united in one common cause-men differing in nationality, religion, occupation, social and financial standing, ought to elicit
more than a mere passing interest.
"It was upon precisely this idea of our ideal republic that Washington and his associates (all of them Masons) , founded our governnu:nt. Perhaps no better Masonic document was ever penned than
the declaration of independence and the Federal Constitution.
"Here, then, exists an ideal republic within that conglomerate mass
constituting the nation, composed of a body of men representing
equity, .fraternity and · equality. A living germ within an outer
Mtructure, numbering between two and three million men.
"Hence arises an important question. Has this body of men, so
t"ndowed and so prepared for the duties of citizenship no function,
office or duty to the community, on the part of the institution they con1tltute and represent? The answer is found in the distinction existing
(I )

3

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC&

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

between our ideal republic and the real republic we 'call our common
country. Here no one is admitted, unless after ca;e~ul exan;ination,
he is found worthy and qualified to assume, and .w1llmg to discharge
all the obligations necessary to secure fraternal umon and permanency.
In the real republic no such requisition is made or seems possible.
There men clamor for their rights who habitually disregard their
.
.
duties and ignore all mutual obligations.
"Not only is this true, but today the irresponsible part of the
citizenship of this republic is being added to annually ~y . more than
a million of the ignorant, oppressed and revenge~ul y1chms of the
aristocracy and clericalism of the old world. It 1s time, therefore,
that we were awake to the meaning and transcendant importance of
the existence maintenance and mission of this ideal republic (which
Masonry is) 'in the midst of the competition, strife and confusion of
tongues which constitute our present real republic.
"If every one of us should carry into the world of politics, eco- ·
nomics and citizenship outside, the principles and usages he recognizes and conforms to in the Lodge, Masonry could do .no more .than
all other combined influences to convert our country mto an ideal
republic where justice, equity and fraternity would replace ignorance,
.
.
vice, po~erty, injustice, bitterness a~d strife: .
"If the institution has no higher m1ss1on than to mcrease its
membership, initiate its candidates and simply exist; if it can s.ecure a full attendance of its members only by a banquet or a frolic,
it must and should fall to pieces from sheer inanition.
.
"Let us, therefore, strive to do our whole duty to 9od, the nation
and the brethren, and we will stand, as we were designed to stand,
first among all human institutions in the onward and upward evolution of the individual and the race. Our past, present and future arch enemy is not asleep."
The Grand Master's address discloses a year of marked activity in
which dispensations were granted for the organization of thirteen new
Lodges.
Ten corner-stones also were laid under direction of the Grand
Lodge.
The Grand Master reported having attended the centennial celebration of the founding of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia
•
in February, 1911.
Being unable himself to attend the meeting of the Washington Memorial Association, the Grand Master appointed as his deputy to attend
this meeting the Grand Secretary, Brother George A. Beauchamp, who
submits a report of his attendance upon this meeting.

"Suspension must be for a definite period, to be fixed by the
verdict, or indefinite; susp,ension cannot be imposed until the happening of a particular event.'
A full and exhaustive report of the Masonic Home Committee was
rendered, and on the second day of the Communication the Grand
l,odge conducted the ceremony of laying the corner-stone of the Alabama
Masonic Home. An exceedingly interesting program was carried out
upon that occasion, and several able addresses were rendered by prominent members of the fraternity. The president of the Masonic Home
Board, M.". w:. Brother Ben M. Jacobs, gave an exhaustive history
of the "inception and struggle" of the Masonic Home idea, the "struggle"
covering a space of time from the "inception" in the year 1868, and
he Yeferred to the fact tha: many of the present members of the
<irand Lodge fully appreciated the bitter struggle and the heart-pangs
of defeat experienced during the many years of work before the Masonic
I lome became an assured fact.
Something like $110,000 has been contributed toward the Masonic
I lome Fund, and the expectation is cherished that within the year the
I lome will be completed ready for the reception of residents.

2

The following decisions were rendered by the Grand Ma.s ter :
"Where a Mason has been tried and convicted and sentenced to
be reprimanded, and refuses to a:t~end to recei".e. his puni~hment, he
thereby deprives himself of the rights and privileges of Masonry,
until he receives his punishment or. appeals from the conviction."
"A brother restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry
cannot, at the meeting restoring him, apply .for and rec~ive m~mb.er­
shio. He must a.wait at least another meetmg, when his application
must take the regular course."

Br-other William Y. Titcomb presents an elaborate report on For-

eign Correspondence, in which there is a review of California for 1910,
und in which his references to California are in part as follows:
"We feel distinctly ~rateful to the Grand Orator for his choice
of a theme, 'Masonry m Business and Politics'. He handled the
1uhiect most intelligently.
"The idea is that the Mason must carry his Masonry into his
husiness relations and transactions, and into his participation in ~ublic
nffairs, as well as exemplify Masonic principles in his home and m his
l,odge.
"M.". ·w:. Geo. M. Perine, from a committee appointed to conv~·y the thanks .of Grand Lodge to Brother Coleman for his magnificent
f{lft of a hospital at Decoto, eloquently performed the task assigned
him, and his report was adopted by a rismg, unanimous vote."
A special report of the Committee on Foreign Correspo11dence conccr12ing Grand Lodge Vallee de Mexico was rendered as follows:
"To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Alabama:
"The Committee on Foreign Correspondence respectfully submit
I he following special report :
"A resolution has been referred to this committee embodying the
following resolution, concerning the Grand Lodge Vallee de Mexico:
"Resolved, That this resolution be referred to the Committee on
Foreiirn Correspondence for investigation and report on the status
.. £ said Grand Lodge, Valley of Mexico, and that said committee
he requested, if possible, to report at this Grand Communication such
recommendation as it deems proper in t'he premises."
"Your committee does not fail to state that, since official fraternal
relations do not subsist between the Grand Lodge of Alabama am!
the Grand Lodge Valley of Mexico, persons hailing from a Lodge

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

under the jurisdiction of said last named Grand Lodge are not eligible
to affiliation with any Lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
of Alabama.
·
"Fraternally submitted,
"WILLIAM Y. TITCOMB,
"Chairman."
Daniel A. Greene, Birmingham, elected Grand Master.
George A. Beauchamp, Montgomery, re-elected Grand Secretary.

foll regalia the brethren marched to the Court House Square and
formed a circle around the tree, which was a native white oak brought
from Williamson Valley.

4

ARIZONA, 1912.
The M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Arizona held its Thirtieth Annual Communication in the Masonic Hall
in the city of Prescott on February 13, 14 and 15, 1912.

In opening his annual address, the Grand Master says:
"In this spirit of closest unity I bid you welcome to our Annual
Session and as we work another space in the annals of our history, let
us pause, with bowed heads in recognition of the care of our Supreme
Grand Master during this period of time and with grateful hearts render thanks to Him for the lessons it has brought into our lives.
"Since our last meeting held in Tucson, great and momentous
events have transpired within our boundaries and beyond our borders.
The section wherein we labor has been advanced . to Statehood, while
in our sister Republic revolution and . bloodshed have stirred the people. All of these happenings give a greater field for the teachings of
our Order. The enlargement of our population, following the rights of
Statehood, will increase our ranks in Arizona, while the tragedies being
enacted across the line give those of our craft working there opportunity for instilling our principles of Brotherly Love and Relief."
The address of the Grand Master and the reports of the other
Grand Officers set forth the usual activities of the year, in which.
a substantial growth in membership is recorded and general Masonic
good work disclosed.
Commenting upon the Grand Master's address, the special committee to which it was referred uses the following language to express its
appreciation of the Grand Master's work during the preceding year:
"Your Committee appreciate the full presentation of the condition
of our Order throughout this Jurisdiction, as given in our Most
Worshipful Grand . Master's Address, and the evidence in it of his
devotion to the work during the past year in its every detail, and find
therein one very potent reason for the flattering progress we have
made during that time."
Perhaps the most delightful function which occurred during the
session of the Grand Lodge was the planting of a tree by invitation
~f the Prescott Chamber of Commerce, and the Yavapai County Board
of Supervisors in the Court House Square to commemorate the admission on that date of Arizona to statehood.
The Grand Lodge was called from Labor and a procession was
formed under the direction of the Grand Marshal, F .. G. Brecht, and in

5

Brother Past Grand Master Fletcher M. Doan made a felicitous
address, at the conclusion of which Brother Morris Goldwater, Mayor
of Prescott, spoke as follows :
"Fellow Citizens, Friends and Brethren:
"We have gathered to celebrate the birth of a new State. I have
not lived ·under State government long enough to have forgotten the
forty years spent in the Territory. In spite of what has been said by
politicians and others, looking back over the Territorial administration, fairness compels me to say that whether Republican or Democratic
it has not been such a bad government. I do not know what the
future may bring to the new State, I can not tell what Time may
hold in the hollow of his hand for Arizona. I can only hope that
s'he may grow in the nobleness of her citizenship, in population, in
wealth, until her Star shall shine the peer of any that is in the galaxy
that makes our nation's flag. But come weal or woe, nothing will ever
efface from my memory the joys and pleasures I have had in the Territory of Arizona. And so, as we say welcome, we say farewell.
"And now let everybody join in three cheers for the new State of
Arizona."
Brother Harry A. Drachman, Tucson, was elected Grand Master,
and on being installed as such addressed his brethren as follows:
"Mv I3ROTH:ERS: At this, the greatest moment of my life, I cannot find words to express my gratitude for the great honor bestowed
upon me, that of Grand Master of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge,
JI. & A. M. of Arizona.
"It is an honor of which any man may feel prouQ. Especially has
this honor been pleasing to me for the reason that, at the moment the
Grand Master declared me elected the whistles were blowing and
cannons were booming the glorious news of the admission of our commonwealth into the Sisterhood of States. f>.nother honor is that of
being the first nathoe born Arizonian .to become Grand Master. Still
another honor that of being installed by my God-Father, M.". w:.
P. G. M. Morris Goldwater. All these honors make me feel a keen
responsibility for the tasks before me. I can only turn to the Supreme
Grand Master above to assist and guide me in the right 'Path, and
I ask my brethren to be charitable in passing judgment upon my acts,
remembering that I am going to try and do the best I know how.
"I thank you again, my brothers, for this great honor. I pledge
to you my strength, my heart and my hands for t.he great responsibility that is before me."
Brot'her George J. Roskruge, Tucson, re-elected Grand ~ecretary.
ARKAN SAS, 1911.
The Seventieth Annual Communication was held in the Masonic
Temple in the city of Little Rock, November 21, 1911-M.". w:.
Brother F. J. Lindsay, Grand Master, presiding.

REPORT ON 'CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

From the address of the Grand Master we learn that he granted
dispensations to three new Lodges; that seven corner-stones were laid; ·
that he had been obliged to suspend three Masters from their office for
unmasonic conduct, and that he was otherwise busily occupied with the
discharge of the duties of the Grand Master.

111 Eta~tern Star were escorted into the hall and seated, whereupon the
Brother Tillman Parks, delivered his oration
II · the edification not only of the Masons but to the listening sisters as
"• II, and we are further informed that the Grand Matron of the Order
• I Eastern Stars was introduced and addressed the audience, voicing
th1 appreciation of the sisters for the courtesy extended at being perllllttcd to sit in the august presence of the Grand Lodge of Masons. The
1111 1cnce of a body of women in the midst of a Grand Lodgs of Masons
1111y be more dignified but hardly less incongruous than the "knife
hnurcls" and "doll racks" and other circus adjuncts in connection with
• 111 ncr-stone ceremonies.
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence submitted a report rela11 1 to the recognition of the Grand Lodge of Salvador, and, in accordllh't' with their request, were granted further time in which to investi1 11 • the matter before making recommendations for recognition or
•lthcrwise.
The committee also was granted further time for consideration of
the request of the Grand Orient of the Ottoman Empire for recognition.
The Grand Master ,again refers to the difference existing between
11 11 (irand Lodge of Arkansas and the Grand Lodge of California con' 1•tning the question of penal jurisdiction, California having exercised
Julisdiction over a rejected candidate from Arkansas on .the ground
thnt the candidate had been a resident of California for a full year
" hich residence, according to California law, conferred jurisdiction t~
1 C'alifornia Lodge, notwithstanding the fact that Arkansas claims penal
J11risdiction over its rejected candidates for a period of five years.
The position of California in claiming jurisdiction according to its
own laws is undoubtedly sound and is, we believe, usually recognized
,i
such, and in declining .to recognize Arkansas' claims to penal juris1111 tion for a period of five years no discourtesy was intended to that
Jurisdiction.
The report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother George T.
lllnck, chairman.
Mark P. Olney, Owena, elected Grand Master.
Fay Hempstead, Little Rock, re-elected Grand Secretary.

6

Six rulings are reported, and a few of them, because of the rather
unusual nature of the questions asked, we copy as follows:
"Can there be ahy penalty inflicted on a brother for non-attendance
when the Lodge is ma.k ing a Mason of a man whom the absent brother
deems unfit material for masonry?"
Answer. "No. But a brother who absents !himself for the
reasons named, does the Lodge wrong and himself an injustice."
Question. "Has a Lodge a right to elect a member Worshipful
Master who is in the habit of getting drunk and violating masonic law?"
Answer. "No, etc."
·
Question. "Is it proper or 'prudent at public installations and the
laying of corner-stones under the auspices of the Masonic Lodge, to
have or to approve of having speculative stands; such as shooting
matches, doll racks, knife boards, swings, and other devices for
speculative purposes?"
Answer. "No, etc."
It would seem that some of these are remarkable questions to be
pres.ented to a Grand Master, and even more remarkable that .these
questions and answers should be entered under the caption of "Decisions."
Arkansas has an Orphans' Home, of which the jurisdiction is no
doubt justly proud, and the Grand Master recommends that there be
established, in addition to the Orphans' Home, a Home for Widows
and Indigent Masons, and in anticipating the objections which will naturally be raised to such a project-that is, the cost and burden upon
the fraternity- he takes a look backward and sees that objections of
this character were raised when the project of a Masonic Temple for
the Grand Lodge was first agitated, and afterwaras when the project of
an Orphans' Home was considered, and concludes that, inasmuch as
these projects were realized and are now accomplished facts, without
having caused the fraternity any distress, so also may his recommendation of a Home for Widows and Indigent Masons in time become one
of the realized ideals of Arkansas Masonry.
The Committee on Jurisprudence apparently overruled the Grand
Master in his decision that "doll racks," "knife boards" and other devices for speculative purposes at corner-stone ceremonies were improper,
for it held "that these adjuncts were not unmasonic, and that probably'
none of them could be called immoral in character, thus giving its sanction, apparently, to the idea that the turning of the ceremony of
laying a corner-stone into a circus is in no wise out of place.
At one time during the session of the Grand Lodge it was called
from refreshment and the members of the Grand Chapter of the Order(

7

I 11 ind Orator, R." · W.".

BRITISH COT .TTMRIA. 1911.
The Forty-first Annual Communication of the First Worshipful
I :1 and Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of British Columhln was opened in Ample Form in the Masonic Temple in the city
1.i Vancouver, on Thursday, the 20th day of June, A. D. 1912, A. L.
1912, at the hour of 10 o'clock a. m.-M.". W,'. Brother J. F . Burd pre~lding.

·

..
8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

.

Eleven Emergent Communications were held within the preceding
year, principally for purposes of laying corner-stones of important public
buildings, the most important event of this character, perhaps, being .the
placing of the comer-stone of the new Freemasons' Hall at the city o{
New Westminster, on the 6th of October, 1911.

w:.

From the address of the R.".
Grand Orator, Brother J. J.
Miller,•we quote as follows:
"There is always something significant in the laying of a foundation stone. It signifies progress, advancement, development, pros_.
perity. We, here in this new country, live in this environment. Foundations are laid every day. We are engaged in the development <Jf a new
country and in laying the foundations of our own fortunes and those
who come after us. The building up of this Western Country is our
portion. We are all builders today, building up our respective businesses,
building our homes, building schools and churches, building universities
and colleges, building railways and shipyards. We each one play an
important part in the development which is going on all. around, and
we should all realize our own responsibilities.
"The same work of building has been going ·on all through the
ages. The advance of science is marked even in the building art~.
Great structures are now erected "o f steel and concrete, unknown until
recent years. Stone and timber were the principal materials used
through all time. At the erection of King Solomon's Temple, that
masterpiece of architectural construction, stone and timber were chiefly·
used. It was in connection with the erection of Solomon's Temple
that the traditional foundation stone of Masonry was laid. Some of
the conditions that prevailed in those ancient days are even much the
same today. History tells us that the stones were prepared in the
quarries, and the timber in the forests; the timber being placed in the
water from the forests of Lebanon and brought in by floats. The fleet
of tug boats on our local waters is to-day engaged in the same
work, bringing in by water the stone from the quarries and the
timber from the forests for the building of our towns and cities. 'The
glory of an old land is in its past, the glory of a new land is in its
future.' The glorious history of our own Nation is our heritage, the
builders of the British Nation have builded better than they knew.
Let us so lay the foundation of our future and so build upon it that
they who come after us may say the same of us.''

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The brethren who rightly discharge their duties as Masons may
patiently await the arrival of that awful moment when the soul shall
again take wing to that boundless and unexplored expanse above,
where the divisions of time shall cease and the glories of an endless
eternity burst upon the view. Brethren, may the beautiful principles
of our Order be transmitted through this new Temple and every
Masonic Temple from generation to generation."
The following is taken from the concluding paragraphs of the
Grand Master's address :
"In an era of prosperity such as this Jurisdiction, as a whole, is
blessed with the tendency is, as in other Jurisdictions, to measure success by our' increase i~ memb~rship through initiation. },Ierein lies a
danger which I have tned to discourage. Only such material should be

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
11 , epted as can truly answer the questions "Where were you tirst pre11111rd to be made a Freemason?" "Do you seriously declare upon· your
honor that you are prompted to solicit our privileges from a general
·Ii 1ire for knowledge and a sincere wish to render yourself more extenlvcly serviceable to your fellow men?" "What came you here to do?"
Wlt'hin my limited ability I have tried to .encoura~e the brethren to
l11uk at Freemasonry from the standpoint of trymg to live up to
•lllr obligations, thereby making rt a potent force in our citizenship
1 11lwr than that of meeting for transacting the necessary business and
ccldlng to our members. Brethren, the most honored position in your
11 ilt, or in the gift of man, has been mine during the past year, and for
1hl" I sincerely thank you."

A memorial in eutogy of the late v:. w:. H. G. Fiennes-Clinton,
c1rn11<1 Chaplain, by R.". w:. Brother J. J. Miller, was read by the
t ii 1111<! Secretary, Brother Miller being unavoidably absent. The deceased
c1rnncl Chaplain was evidently held in very high esteem by the Grand
I •lllge of British Columbia, as may be judged from the following para111phs from the memorial above mentioned:
"As a citizen of the world he was exemplary in the discharge of his
• lvil duties, upholding the peace and good order of society, promoting
111tl encouraging that which was calculated to benefit his fellow man, inh resting himself in the welfare of the young people, and possessing an
thlding faith in the great western country where he had lived and ·
lahnrcd for upwards of a quarter of a century. He loved his country,
111 loved the people, he was loyal to his king. He was .a good C'itizen !"
"As Grand Chaplain he was devoted and attentive to the duties of
lhnt high office. Whenever the summons was issued by the Grand
M11Htcr he obeyed if the place of meeting was within the length of his
1l1ll• tow. His attendance to Masonic duties is worthy of emulation.
I It~ great heart was full of love for the brotherhood, and it is safe to
1 th at his greatest pleasure was that of fraternal intercourse with the
hH•thren of the mystic tie. He 'WIJS a J1aso11!!"
The v:. w:. Grand Secretary, W. A. DeWolfe-Smith, submitted a:
• 1111cise and at the same time comprehensive report of his office, from
" hkh we quote the following paragraph as evidence of the continued
1iro~perity of the Craft in British Columbia:
"The prosperous condition of the Craft, to which allusion has
he 1•11 made in former years, still continues, and while a mere increase
Ill numbers is not a criterion of healthy Masonic growth, it may be
,, mimed, from the harmony which prevails in our Lodges, that the
htnlcrial which is heing accepted is the kind that we desire."
That the efforts of the Grand Master in the year of his service were
wrrntly appreciated by his brethren may be judged from the report of

lhr Committee on the Grand Master's Address, from which the followlttlC paragraphs are taken:
"Your Committee congratulate the Grand Master and this Grand
t.oclge upon the success of the Craft. Freemasons in this Jurisdiction
lhow a steady and large increase in members and Lodges. The addi11011 by Dispensation of nine new Lodges is very gratifying, but at the
19

REPORT ON CORRi<:SPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

same time we commend the remarks of the Grand Master with reference to care to be exercised in selection of proper material.
.
' "Your Committee are of the opinion that much of the success of
Freemasonry in British Columbia this year is due to untiring zeal and
indefatigable exertion on the part of our Grand Master, which wa's
particularly displayed in his energy in visiting almost every Lodge in
this Jurisdiction. Too much importance can not be placed on the visits ·
of the Grand Master to subordinate Lodges and we venture the opinion
·
that his good work will bear fruit for many years to come.''

"This district may be justly claimed as one of the cradles of
I t 1emasonry in this Province, and possesses the proud distinction
1.f having within its borders the oldest Lodge on the Register of the
I 11
Lodge of Canada. From the earliest days to the present the
\ I Hons of this city and of this historic peninsula have ever been
F111·emost in their adherence to the principles of Freemasonry and in
the unfailing allegiance to the Grand Lodge. Their continued loyalty
1.. the sacred tenets of .our noble Order, we continue to re-affirm to-day
.1 1111 again we tender you a hearty and fraternal greeting."

The report on Foreign Correspondence is from the incisive pen of
the v:. w:. Grand Secretary W. A. DeWolfe-Smith, who is al~o
chairman of the Correspondence Committee, in which California, 1911,
is considered. On California we quote him as follows:
"The temperance crank was on hand with a resolution prohibiting the initiation of any candidate engaged in the liquor business,
and prescribing the penalty of expulsion for anyone now a member who
should hereafter engage in the business. The Committee on Jurisprudence very properly reported against the resolution, which was rejected. The same Committee advised against modifying their law prohibiting the use of wine at Masonic banquets."

In his address the Grand Master sets forth the condition of the frah t 11ity, and from his report we gather that an era of prosperity is in
111 uiircs~; the revenues of the Grand Lodge are of a substantial charac1• 1 nnd the disbursements for benevolence are exceedingly generous.
The total membership at this Communication appears to be 48,500.
1l111ost identical with the membership of California.
Much the larger portion of the address of the Grand Master is
11 111 1° up of correspondence concerning an invasion of the Grand Jurisdicllon of Canada by the Grand Jurisdiction of Michigan in that
lite of the Lodges in the Jurisdiction of Michigan, located next to
the Canadian line, crossed over the line into Canada for the purpose of
•onducting a funeral of one of the members of the Michigan Lodge.
The Grand Master of Michigan having refused to disavow the act
11( the subordinate Lodge of his jurisdiction and reprimand it for the
I.line, the Grand Master of Canada finally went to the extremity of
" 'Vcring relations with the Grand Lodge of Michigan, and is issuing an
• 1llct of non-intercourse. The disagreement, however, was finally adJnMtcd and fraternal relations restored.

10

Brother De-Wolfe-Smith may, or may not, be surprised to 'learn
that at the Annual Communication of 1912 the resolution prescribing the
penalty of expulsion for any one now a member of any Lodge who shall
hereafter engage in the liquor business was adopted by the Grand Lodge.
This is certainly "going the limit" on the temperance question.
M.". w:. J. M. Rudd, Nanaimo, Grand "Master.
v:. w:. W. A. DeWolfe-Smith, New We$tminster, Grand Secretary.
CANADA, 1911.
The Fifty-sixth Annual Communication of the Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons of Canada, in the Province of Ontario, was held in
the city of St. Catharines on the 19th and 20th of July, 1911-M.". w:.
Brother Daniel F. Macwatt on the throne.
The Mayor of the city of St. Catharines, Hon. James M. McBride,
delivered "fhe address of welcome to the Grand Lodge, in which he referred to the proud history of Masonry, its record abounding with works
for the betterment of mankind, etc., and in which honor is discovered
not only for what it has been but for what it is to-day. The Mayor
also spoke in extravagant praise of the ,city of" St. Catharines and referred to its many attractions and advantages.
The Grand Master replied in suitable language to the address of
welcome, after w11ich the Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form.
After the Grand Lodge was opened, the Worshipful Masters of
the several local Lodges of St. Catharines were presented, and an address was made by them in behalf of the Craft of St. Catharincs to the
Grand Master, from which we quote as follows:

11

mu

The Grand Master speaks of a matter referred by him to the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, and approves the action of that committee as follows :
"I submitted several matters to the Chairman of this Committee,
M,', w:. Brother A. T. Freed, who will report at this Communication.
I approved his report on a communication received from The Inter1111t1onal Bureau for "Masonic Affairs at Neuchatel, Switzerland, and
recommend its adoption. It is as follows :
"To t~c .M.". w:. the Grand Master of the Grand Lo·dge of Cimada
in Ontario, A. F. & A. M.:
"Most Worshipful Sir: The Committee on Foreign Corresponde-;;e,
It> whom was referred a communication from the International Bureau
lor Masonic Affairs, having its headquarters at Neuchatel, Switzerland,
bel(s leave to report. :
"!. The body in q~stion professes to be an International Bureau
!or Masonic Affairs, a1(d announces that it is entruste<I with the task
of 'facilitating relatio~s among Masonic powers without in any way
1ffccting their independence or their sovereign!)'.' It is 'composed of
the Grand Lodges, Grand Orients or Supreme Councils concerning and
ad'hcring to the International Bureau.' Its objects are to disseminate
Information among Grand Bodies, to form a library, to publish a
quarterly bulletin and to print Masonic works. Its expenses are to be

12

REPORT ON CORRES·PONDENCE.

met by a 'compulsory annual subscriptiori' levied upon the adhering
bodies, and by donations and legacies. No information is given as to
the Grand Bodies composing or adhering to the Bureau.
"2. The need for such a bureau is not apparent to your Committee. All Grand Lodges have Secretaries ; and all, or nearly all,
publish reports of their proceedings. Hitherto Httle, if any, difficulty ·
ha:s been experienced by this Grand Lodge in corresponding wit1i srster
bodies, arrd it does not appear how existing means of inter-communication can be im_proved by the International Bureau.
"3. If the Grand Lodge of Canada, in the Province of Ontario,
should become a constituent member of the International Bureau, it
would be held to some extent responsible for the princip"les advocated
in the bulletin of that body.
"A large part of the work of the bureau appears to consist in
the advocacy o-f 'harmony' among Masonic bodies, and by 'harmony' is
mearrt recognition of, and the establishing of fraternal relations with
those Grand Bodies, which have abandoned some of the most important landmarks of Masonry by remov1ng the Volume of the
Sacred Law from their al.tars, and all recognition of the Great
Architect of the Universe from the\r rituals. Many years ago the
Grand Lodge of Canada terinitiated fraternar .intercourse with the
Grand Orient of France for this reason. The Grand Orient has not to the
present time changed its practice, and the Grand Lodge of Canada has
not shown any disposition to recall its edict of non-intercourse. It
would surely be an inconsistency in this Grand Lodge to give moral and
financial assistance to an organization, one of whose chief endeavors
is to f. rodain'I that this Grand Lodge is wrong.
" n the last issue of the Bulletin of the International Bureau, which
• has come u11der the notice of yonr committee, is an article approving
the action of some German ·Masons who have removed the Volume of
the Sacred Laws from their altars and substituted what is called 'The
White Book.' This is a book having the one word 'God' on the outside
of its cover and all the leaves of the h9ok entirely blank.
"Your committee is unable to recommend that this Grand Lodge
become a subscribing member of, or give money aid t o the International
Bureau of Masonic Affai•s.
"A. T. FREED,
"Committee."
The Grand Master also refers approvingly to the so-called "card
system" for the keeping of the Masonic record of members.
He also shows by reference to income and disbursements of the
Grand Lodge that 78 per cent of the income of the Grand Lodge is devoted to purposes of benevolence, a record which, we venture to say, is
unequaled by any other Grand Jurisdiction in the world.
Concerning canvassing for office, the Grand Master has this to
say:
"At last Grand Lodge Communication I suspended a brother who
had a card printed with hi$ name thereon as well as the office to which
he desitei:l to be elected. One would hav·e thought that would be sufficient to stop this improper usage, but in the month of December last
1 received a letter from the officer of a lodge asking me to use my
fofiuerice to ~ave a brpth~r from his c!ty elect~d . at this communication
a: high office. As he was a subordinate officer, a fter carefully _con-

to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

13

1lde~ing the !llatter, I determined not to suspen.d him, but pointed out
to lum how. ignorant he was of Masonic law and usage and cautioned
him to ~v01d such ~nmasoni~ conduct in future, and I trust he and

other~ will P~Y attention t.o this.

I have heard it said that those occupy-

1111( !ugh. offices, or ~and1dates for such offices, erring in this respect,
H • not mterfer~d with.
If !l';'IY brother will give me direct proof I

1hnll act, no matter what position the brother occupies or seeks."
P~st Gr~nd Ma~ter J:-· T . Freed submits the report on Correspond·•nce, 111 which Cahforma, 1910, is courteously considered and from
'
which we quote as follows :

"T.he Masonic h<?mes, hospitals and benevolent boards of California
nr c domg .noble service. The .repo.r ts respecting them are too long and
too complicated to be summarized ; but our belief is that numbers con-

1ldcred, the brethren of the State are doing as noble work as is done in
1111y part of the world. "T he net receipts of the year for the Masonic
home were $63,817, and the expenditur.es $40 195.
"When the Philippine Islands became te;ritory of the United States
the Grand Lodge of California. assumed Masonic control. There were
then a number of Lodges in the islands chartered by the Grand Orient
of the Scottish Rite in Spain . . Recently these Lodges were declared by
the Grand Lodge of California to be irregular and clandestine on the
Kroun~ _that the Grand Orient of Spain itself was irregular, ~nd had
no leg:1ttmate power to create hodies of Craft Masons. The situation is
~omph~ated by th.e ~act that there are two bodies of the Scottish Rite
m Spam, each da1mmg regularity .and ?en<>uncing the other as spurious.
In the P!esent volume of Proceedings 1s the report of a special committee a{Jpomte~ last yea; to consider the whole situation. This committee
"~trenched itself b~hind the proposition that a body of the Scottish
Rite has n<;> authority to charter symbolic Lodges, and prepared some
very drastic reso)utions for the acceptance of Grand Lodge. But
Grand Lodge d.eclmed to adopt .the resolutions, and merely ordered the
r.eport ~o .be printed for future' information. The question is one of no
httl~ d1ff1cu~ty. The r.eport ~s. of. considerable value, as it contains all
the information respecting Ph1hpptne Masonry which could be gathered."
Past Grand Master Freed's interesting conclusion is submitted in
full as follows :
"Littl~ need be added in a genei:al way to the foregoing reviews
of the domgs of Grand Lodges. Masonry throughout the world is at
peace, an? everywhere it i~ making substantial progress. Such is its
!n~rease 1!1 numbers . that in some quarters apprehension is felt that
1t 1s g rowmg t?o r.ap1dly. That fear we cannot share, for in all quarters .assurance 1~ ~wen that. n~ver before were the character and qualific~t10ns of can d1dates scrutm1zed as closely as they are now. Masonry
strives ~o . be 1first pu_re, then peaceable,' and then to carry on its
grea~ m1ss10n of teaching truth ~nd practicing charity.
T~e greatness a.nd prosperity of the order certainly expose it to
two evil~. The first 1s that µnscrupulous men strive to use it for personal gain. C!>n6dence men are continually coming forward with appeal~ for ploney under some specious plea for charity or for the promot10n of some yvork which at first sight appears to be ~ood. The
M~son who re~c:1.ves one ,of these appi:als should set it d own as a
swmdle unless 1t 1s accredited by Masonic officials whom he knows.

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"One scheme which is now being worked is a 'chain letter' asking .
that ten. cents be sent to 'Judge Day, Canton, Ohio,' for the purpose
?f erecting a monument to the memory of President McKinley. There
is a Judge Day of the Supre~e Court of the United States, and his
former home was Canton, Oh10 ; but the apparent use of his name isfraudulent;_ he has no.thing to do with the scheme, which is a swindle
pure and simple. It 1s a wonder the postal authorities of the United
States permit the use of the mails for such a purpose.
"Another appeal for money is being made by an association of men
.
m Ma;;sachusetts. 'for th~ erection and permanent maintenance of a ·
Mas<;>nic, temple m the . city of Jerusalem, Palestine, under American·
ausp1ce.s. Doubtless !his ~annot be classed with the chain-letter plan
of gettin~ money. It 1s q_mte p_robable that, if enough money be raised,
a Masonic hall of some kind will be opened and possibly be maintained
at Jerusalem. And what good will result?' There is already a Lodge
~t Jerusalem, warranted by the Grand Lodge of England. What need
is there of a Lodge 'under American auspices?' A good many years
ago the Grand Lodge of ~anada. warranted a Lodge there, and it
was used as. a .money makmg device, so that the warrant was withdrawn. Is 1t likely that a new Lodge will do any better? IS there
any assurance that it will not be utilized, as the old Lodge was utilized,
to exact backsheesh from tourists?
"But t_he Massach!-'se~ts schellJ-e appears to promise more than it • .
does. p~om1se. I.ts periodical, begging papers contain letters about 'the.
rebmldm!!. of King- Solo!11on s temple.' It conspicuously advertises a
book be~nng the same title ; and these letters and advertisements are
so contrived as to lead the unwary to think that the association which
begs. the money in~ends to restore the temple of Solomon on Mount
Monah, or somethin~ supposed to resembie it. Now, the Mosque of
Omar stands on the site of tJie. temple. It !s held i!1 such veneration by
Mo.hammedans that no ~hnstlan or Jew 1s permitted to enter it. A
serious prop~sal to tear 1t down and build on the site a Masonic edifice
would prec1p1tate a state of things such as humanity dare not contempt:ite. B~t the people who are begging money under this pretense
will explain when cornered that they do not pronose to tear clown the
Mosque of Omar ~nd rebuild the temple of Solomon; thev merely
~ant Masons .to thmk that to he their design. The wise thing to do
1s to" throw ~he appe~ls into the waste paper basket.
F.r?m time tc;i time: a_nd frequently, api>lications are received for
recogmtlon of bodies claiming to be Masonic. · Some of them undoubtedly are !egitimat~ Masonic bodies, re1rnlarly established, and practicing
the genu11;ie teachings of Masonry_. · Not only should the applications
not be reJected because the applying bodies are poor and struggling,
but for those reaso!1s they are deserving of encouragement. But in
many- cases the apph~ants are n.ot deserving; the bodies are not regular, .
or they. ?o not practice recognized craft Masonrv, or they are formed
for poht1cal i>urposes. They are likely to bring discredit on our order
and for that reason they should have no encouragement whatever On~
acknowledges that it has been formed by a body of the Scottish. Rite
and may _be called upo!1 to surrender its independence to that body. An~
other e~1sts l;Y the will of a body in a foreign country. Another was
a Scottish Rite body; but by resolution it decided to be a body of
'York riti;' ~·a sons, and now asks the Masonic powers of the world
to rec_ogmze 1t as such. Too much care· cannot be exercised in giving
a certificate of character to grand bodies. For recognition is a certificate
of character; and all Masonic ~odies will, to some extent, be judged by
the character and conduct of its least worthy members.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

15

"When a body of Masons claiming to be a Grand Lodge asks for
fraternal recognition, it should accompany its application with reasonable
proof that it has been legitimately formed; that it practices the fundamental principles of craft Masonry; that it acknowledges dependence
upon the Great Architect of the Universe; that it places the 'Volume
of the Sacred Law upon its altars; that it is a sovereign and independent
body; and that it does not exist for political purposes. If it cannot do
this, it should not be recognized."
Aubrey White, Toronto, elected Grand Master.
R. L. Gunn, Hamilton, re-elected Grand Secretary.
COLORADO, 1911.
The M:. w:. Grand Lodge, A. F. and A. Masons of Colorado, met
in its Fifty-first Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple in Denver, Colo., Tuesday, September 19, 1911-M,'. w:. Brother Albert D.
McGaffey, Grand Master, presiding.
Representatives were present from 119 of the 123 chartered Lodges,
and many of the representatives of other Grand Lodges were in attendance and were invited to the East, where they were received and welcomed by the Grand Master. w:. Brother William H. Esworthy, the
representative of the Grand Lodge of Victoria, spoke in behalf of the
representatives as follows :
"M,'. w:. Grand Master: In behalf of my brother representatives
and myself, I thank you for your kindly words of welcome and I
assure you that we deeply appreciate the honor of a seat in so splendid
a body as the Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of Colorado.
There is nothing within my knowledge that we need bring to your
attention at this time regarding the fraternal relationship existing between your jurisdiction and those of ours, save the assurance from us
of a cordial desire, that we trust is mutual, to maintain a· perfect
understanding, thereby insuring the perpetuity of peace and goodwill. We are here representing jurisdictions throughout the civilized world, and while some of them are only without the borders
of your own State others are in the far-off Antipode~. We are
taught in the Entered Apprentice Degree of the vast dimensions of a
Lodge, to impress upon our minds the idea that Masonry is universal.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, there is nothing that brings to my
mind more forcibly that fact than the presence of these. my brethren,
about your altar to-day. The jurisdictions which we rep~esent are to
be found, some beneath the North Star and ·others under the Southern
Cross, some in this Western hemisphere and others in the dista'nt
Orient. To some of our brethren your sunrise is their sunset, your day
is their night, and your summer may be their winter ; but, Most W orshipful Grand Master, our brethren kneel at the same altar, receive
their light from the same Great Source, and bow their heads to the
same God as do you in Colorado. Masons have ever been pioneers, in
discovery, exploration, settlement and development of new lands; and
whether traveling in hitherto unknown lands or sailing uncharted seas,
in the frozen fastnesses of the polar regions,. or the blistering heat of
the tropics, their conduct toward their fellowman has ever been such
as to characterize them as 'just and upright men and l\fasons,' and rec-

16

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

om~ei;i~ t~e institution of Freemasonry as one of the greatest factors

Resolutions were adopted giving the unqualified endorsement of
the Grand Lodge to the project of the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association, and, in view of the fact tl:iat at the first meeting of the
Association held in Alexandria, Va., Grand Master McGaffey of Colorado
was honored by being elected third vice-president, the Grand Lodge at
this time showed its appreciation of the action of the Association, composed of so many distinguished Masons, by electing him representative
from Colorado to the Association.
An appropriation of $2,500 was voted to the Triennial Conclave of
Knights Templar to be held in Denver in 1913.

of c1v1hzat1on. That the seed of Masonry has been thus sown is evidenced by the fact that among the earliest institutions set up in all
.
newly settled countries are to be found Masonic Lodges.
. "As the representatives of those Masonic bodies we are living ex-emplifications of the universality of Masonry; and we bring assurance
to you t'hat, although you may be far from home, traveling in strange
and distant lands, you will receive a hearty and fraternal welcome from'
your Brother Masons wherever assembled. Most Worshipful Grand
Master, Wardens and Brethren of the Grand Lodge of Colorado I
' ·
thank you!'
Grand Master McGaffey, in his annual address, disclosed a most
excellent administration of Masonic affairs during his year, The fol~
lowing paragraph, taken from his opening address, will -convey an idea
of his marked activity:
"I have tried to keep in close touch with Masonic affairs during the
past year. I have been present at over two hundred Masonic meetings,
have made forty-eight official visitations, have laid ten corner-stones
have installed the officers of thirteen Lodges, have constituted thre~
Lodges and dedicated four halls, I have traveled over the greater
part of the. State by rail, wagon and auto, and have enjoyed every
moment of 1t.
"I am pleased to be able to state that the condition of the .Lodges
in this jurisdiction, as a whole, is very good, indeed. There are a few
in which some things can be improved, but peace and harmony prevail and no contention exists. As a Grand Jurisdiction we are at
peace :with the world."
·
He .reports a total membership of 14,917, a gain over the preceding
year of 6_98. The .four Lodges. which received charters at the preceding
Annual Communication were duly constituted by him in the year.
One dispensation was gr;mted 'by him for a new Lodge to be located
at Hugo, Colo. He states that he has answered a great many questions of Masonic character during the year, but did not feel it necessary to render any ruling i.n regard to the fundamental law that could
be dignified by calling it a decision.
He reports his attendance as the representative of the Grand Lodge
of Colorado at the meeting of the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association, which was held in the city of Alexandria, Va., on Febn:ary 21 and 22, 1911. He states that this meeting was very enthusiastic
and was said to be the largest assemblage of Grand Masters ever congregated, thirty-three Grand Jurisdictions being represented.
The reports of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary reveal
a healt'hful and prosperous condition of the fraternity in Colorado,
Brother Charles H . Dudley, Grand Orator, delivered an exceedingly
interesting oration, which, by resolution of the Grand Lodge, was printed
in the Proceedings, and the thanks of the Grand Body were extended
to Brother Dudley,

17

The Custodian of the Work submitted a report, from which we
quote as follows:
"Due principally to the fact that we have among us so many
Masons who were made in other jurisdict.ions, and who sometimes intentionally and sometimes unconsciously introduce their original work
into ours, we have peculiar conditions to deal with in Colorado, and
there is not the uniformity of work that ought to exist Again, different interpretations of the work have been given by Colorado authorities in the past, which has led to confusion,
"It is to clarify the situation and to crystallize the work that this
report, embodying the result of two years' study of conditions on the
part of the Grand Lecturer at least, is presented to you.
"In the past year the Grand Lecturer has discussed this subject in
practically every Lodge in the State, and with hundreds of wellinformed Masons, and many sug¥estions have been received. In addition
he has spent much time in studying the work of other jurisdictions, particularly England and Scotland, from whom we are all descended,
in an effort to ascertain the origin of our work.
"These opinions and suggestions obtained have been grouped and
sifted, and by a process of elimination only the most worthy have
been given consideration, the desire being t'O get rid of any innovations our work may contain, ·and to get back to ancient words and
forms; taken from an operative craft. We do not propose any radical changes, the sole desire being to break off the rough corners of the
stone and thus secure a more polished and perfect ashlar.
Distinguished visitors, to-wit: Brother William B. Melish, Past
Grand Master of Ohio and present Grand Master of the Knights Templar, and William H . Norris, Past Grand Master of Iowa and Brother
Lee S. Smith of Pennsylvania, were received and cordially welcomed
·
by Grand Master McGaffey.
A portion of Brother Meli15h's address had reference to a recent
visit by him to the Grand Lodge of England, and inasmuch as his remarks are of general interest to the Craft we quote them in part as
follows:
"I want to say just one thing to you about the Grand Lodge of
England because I know it will be of interest to you. In the · Grand
Lodge of England all Past Masters who have presided in England are
very promini;nt members of the Grand Lodge. There are a great many
Lodges in England, and there are hosts of brethren who have received

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

past honors as they call them over there. In· England the Grand
Master nov.'. the uncle of the King, His Royal Highness the Duke of
Conna~ght, has the pow~r to appoint all the officers of the Gra,nd
Lodge save one, the office of Grand Treasurer. The only elective
offices are those of Grand Master and Grand Treasurer. He has also ,
the right to confer past hono:s upon brethren. He can n;iake an appointment of Past Grand Jumor Deacon, Past Grand Jumor Ward~n
or any other of the various offices. At the time I attended m ·
April of this year I thi.nk there were a hundr~d. and fift.Y names proposed of brethren in different parts of the British Empire where the
Lodges are under the control of the Grand Lodge of England who had ·
been selected by the Grand Master to receive these honors. Therefore,
the Grand Lodge of England does not repres~nt 3:nywhere n~ar ,~he
Masonic strength of some of the Gran? Lo4ges m this coun~ry, 1udgrng
bv its members and attendance. This bemg the coronatrn!1 ye~r of
George V. who is termed the Royal Patron of Masonry, 1t bemg a
habit that 'they have of getting the King to become the Royal Patron,
as King Edward VII. was, and Queen Victoria was the Royal Patroness,
although the present King, George V., is. not. a Mason. Th.e Grand
Master is the Duke of Connaught, and this bemg the coronation year,
although he has been Grand Master for five years, it was decided that
among the coronation festivities the Grand Lo4ge of England would
install. His Royal Highness as Grand Master m :Royal Albert Hal_I,
which is the largest auditorium in the city of London. This hal! ts
shaped like an egg and consists of an enormous stage and seven tiers
of seats and holds ten thousand five hundred people. I was, therefor.e,
somewhat astounded when the members of the Grand Lodge entered ·tp
a great deal of form and with a great deal of dignity to find, when we
reached the dais and turned around to look upon the Grand Lodge,
that it consisted of an enormous number of brethren. There were 8,270
Master Masons there in the Grand Lodge, which is an enormous gathering. Every man was dre.ssed in v.:hat is <;alle? Masonic clothing. He
gets a notice as to what his Masonic clothing 1~, and he would not be
admitted at the door unless he was clothed precisely as he was ordered
to be clothed. In this instance it was dark clothes, black tie, sym~ol­
izing the fact that the year of mourning for the Grand Master, Kmg
Edward VII., had not yet ended; white kid gloves and his Masonic
clothing, which consists of an. apron a~d collar and gauntlets for Pa.st
Grand Officers. These are m four different colors of blue-that ts,
four different tints of blue which denote the different grades or ranks,
the Masters and Wardens of Blue Lodges, Past Masters of England
and Past Provincial Grand Masters. They have no Past Grand Masters. The Grand Officers entered preceded by trumpeters. Every one
stood at attention on the first floor and those who had seats on the
middle aisle turned and faced the middle aisle with arms crossed upon
the breast and then the procession of some two hundred officers passed
through. When the Pro Grand Master, who is the J?eputy Gra~d Master and really the active Grand Master, because Hts Royal Highness,
th; Duke of Connaught, cannot give the time to attend to the details <?f
the office of Grand Master, entered, the brethren were called to their
feet and gave the grand honors under the direction of a Grand Officer
they call the Grand Director General of Ceremonies. 'fhey al\ stood
up and took their time, and those 8,?70 i:i1en moved hke a pt~ce of
machinery, giving the grand honors mne ttm~s. To see some s!xteen
thousand hands perform that ceremony .was. 1.ust one reverberation <?f.
sound was something that to me was mspmng no1: because of their
numbers, but because of what it stood for. I will not take time ,to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
tell you of the prerogatives and powers that belong to the Grand Master .of the Grand Lodge of England. Their Grand Master is always
some one of the royal family, and they elect him as long as he will
take the position, which is usually as long as he lives. So that when
he dies they elect his successor and have no Past Grand Masters. They
enter over there in the precise order of their rank, and every one knows
his place and does not get out of it, and every one is placed according
to his rank. So that, according to their Masonic procedure, next to the
Grand Master of England would be Past Grand Masters, if they had
them. Therefore, when I received their invitation and notified the Grand
Lodge that I would be there as the proxy and representative of the
Grand Master of ·Ohio, as well as in my own capacity as Past Grand
Master, I found that I was up next to the head of the column and had
a seat on t'he left of the presiding officer, Lord Amthill, Pro Grand
Master, the left hand being the seat of honor for an invited guest. At the
dinner I received the same honors, and, when I looked around, I was
almost inclined to feel glad that there were no other Past Grand Masters
'
from the United States present.
"I found over there that Masonry was radically different from ours.
They divide themselves into small bodies. 1There are very few of them
that are one hundred or even one hundred and fifty strong. It is more
a social organization. Nearly all meetings are followed by a dinner.
No one visits a Lodge over there unless he is invited. They have
Lodges composed of only one class of men. Royal Life Lodge, to
which I was invited to witness the initiation of Prince Arthur of Connaught, the eldest son of the Duke of Connaught, never receives any
candidate save those of the royal family. Other Lodges are composed
exclusively of musicians or newspaper men, and so on. A man can
belong to just as many Lodges as he pleases. Of course, he is initiated in his mot'her Lodge, but he can be ·a member of as many
Lodges at one time as he pleases. Some belong to a· large number,
and pay as high as two and three hundred dollars a year in dues.
Their charities are magnificent. The Royal Institution for Boys is a
magnificent charity, and so is that for girls. I had the privilege of
attendinP", with Mrs. Melish, the annual festival of the Institution for
Girls. These charities are supported by contributions made by Lodges
and largely by i.ndividuals. At the annual festival, they selected a patron
and patroness and the amount of the contribution was some forty thousand pounds, or two hundred thousand dopars."
Brother Melish also performed the pleasing duty of presenting to
the M. '. W.'. Brother McGaffey, upon his retirement from the Grand
East, a Past Grand Master's jewel, and his highly pleasing remarks were
as fo.llows:

"M.'. W.'. Grand Master:
"The very pleasant and important duty has been assigned me
of welcoming into the ranks of the 'has beens' of the Grand Lodge of
Colorado, more commonly known as the Past Grand Masters, the
distinguished brother who but a few minutes ago was possessed of
all the rights, privileges and prerogatives, as well as the authority, of
the Grand Master of this Grand Lodge. Within a few minutes he is
shorn of all these earthly adornments, and has descended to the level of
t!1e balance of us who are Past Grand Masters.

..
REPORT ON

CORRESP6NDENCE.

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

20

''To you, Brother McGaffey, I can say that your chief co~fort is
'that it is better to be a has been than a never was.' I app~ec1ate the
privilege, as a Past Grand Master of another. State, of saymg a fe:w
words to Brother McGaffey. I know that I voice the thoughts of each
member of this Grand Lodge when I say to yo~, Br?ther McGaffey,
that you are entitled to the words of commendation-;- '."el! d~m.e, thou
good and faithful servant.' No Grand Master o~ this }ur1sd1ctton ~as
been more conscientious in the performance of his duties, more active·
and helpful in the visitation of Lodges, and more earnest and at the
same time tactful in the government of the Masons .of Color~do. · Y: ou
have been signally lionored by your brethren of this State m various
Masonic bodies and your fame has spread both far and 'near as <?ne
who has given the best that was in him to the Craft and the fratermty.
I who have known you for over a quarter of a century, and .have
s~t with you in different ho.dies of Free~asonry, State and National,
can appreciate the place which you hold m the h~arts of these, )'o~r.
brethren of Colorado. It is in their names, and m the nai;ne of. this
Grand Lodge of Masons, therefore, that +. present you '."1th . this, a
Past Grand Master's jewel. I have the pleasure of placmR" it upon
your breast and of saluting you as the latest Past Grand Master of
Colorado.
d A h" t
"Wear this jewel for the -honor and glory of the Gra!1
_re 1tec
of the Universe, and for the building up of Freemasonr:r m this gr~at
State and be assuted that our hearts, and .our best wishes, go with
you ~nd with those near and dear to you, in .a!l that you !11a.Y fi~dh td
do 'during your future life, as the good c1t1zen and d1stmgms e
Masonic brother that you are."

w:.

M.".
Brother McGaffey responded as follows:
"Brethren. this, of course, is not a surpri.sc; to me, as it is a c~s­
tom of this Grand Lodge to present each retmng Grand Master with
a jewel, but I assure you I receive it with 3: great deal of pleasure
and I am very very proud to be able to wear 1t as a Past Grand Master of this jtt~isdiction. · As Brother Melish has said. I have had j
busy year. I have done what ·I could and I a'!I only sorry that
could not do more. I have kept as busy as possible and I trust that
I have done some good. I feel as though. ~ ,g;reat bur~en ha.d heen
taken off my shoulders now that respons1b1bttes of this office . a~e
gone. I thank you, brethren, each and every on~ of you, for tb~e kr.tness extended to me during the year. I appre~iate 1t, .every 1t o 1 ·
I am going out of this office without a fe.elm'( agams~ a ma~ on
earth that I know of. I believe ever'{ Mason m ~?lorado is my friend,
so far as I know. God bless each and all of you.
Past Grand Master Laurence N. Greenleaf sub~itted his ~went:­
seventh Report on Correspondence, which covers a review .of Cabforma,
1910. Brother. Greenleaf speaks approvingly ?f the ora~1on of Grand
Orator Adams, but, through inadvertence, credit~ the oration to Brother
Alonzo J. Monroe, Sr., Grand Warden at that time.
,
.
Brother Greenleaf quotes extensively from Brother Ada~s. oration
and characterizes the same as an eloquent effort to portr~y. e~:stmg conditions, and his subject, "Masonry in Business and P?bttcs, was well
adapted to bring out the true relations which should exist between them . .
The word "politics" was used in the broad sense of our duty to the

state, nation and community in the preservation of safety, peace and
prosperity.
Brother Greenfeaf refer·s to the repor"t of the special committee on
Status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands, and while he considered the
report as a valuable historical summary, he evidently approved the action
of the California Grand Lodge, which was not inclined to take other
Grand Lodges to task for having granted recognition to certain Masonic
bodies in the Philippines.
Brother Greenleafs conclusion is well worth perusal by all thoughtful Masons and is, therefore, quoted in full, as follows :
"Through sixty-four subdivisions of the Masonic tealm we have
jou-rneyed, gathering here and there specimens of the work of others,
and sometimes· 'curios' which we deemed would be of intetest and place
our own jurisdiction in touch with the great body of their fellow
craftsmen who are striving for the betteTment of humanity.
"As we have heretofore noted, the growth of the fraternity the
past. few years has been phenomenal and has awakened in the minds
of conservative brethren much anxiety as to whether it bodes strength
or weafcness. If the portals are well guarded there is no cause for
alarm, for we cannot have too many good men and true in the ranks
of Masonry. In this day and generation there are great evils menacing
the basic fot1ndation·s of all that is just, right and true, in government,
commerce and social life, and they must be met with firmness and
determination. It is a good sign that so many young men are joining
our Lodges and identifying themselves with the fraternity. It is remarked by Grand Masters, Grand Lecturers and others, who from
their visitations are qualified to judp;e, that the best men in every
community are Masons. It is through the lives and character of its
individual members that Masonry accomplishes its work. When the
lessons taught in the Lodp;e are absorbed by the mind and heart, and
influence the life and conduct, Masonry moves forward in all spheres
of activity, not as an organization, but through individual effort, thus
strivinlf to accomplish its divine purpose.
"College fraternities, to which reference was made in our 1909
report, have greatly multiplied, until at last advices there were some
· twenty-four chapters of what is known as 'The Acacia Fraternity' connected with our leading universities, there being one at the Unlvei:sity
of Colorado. Their purpose and outline of work is thus set forth in
its Constitution :
"We, students, faculty and alumni of various universities and colleges, being Master Masons, and believing that the principles of Freemasonry are worthy of the most careful cultivation among universities
and college brethren, do hereby adopt this constitution for the purpose
of uniting us in a closer friendship, the more effectually to inculcate
Masonic principles."
"From all that we learn, these fraternities, as auxiliaries to Masonry; are doing a good work, and there is no occasion for any misgivings as to their . beneficial results upon their members who are
among those who have attained the highest lionors in schofarship and
whose conduct is sans reproache.
"Masonic dubs, Grottoes and other attachments to the Lodge are
being formed in some jurisdictions, while in others they are discountenanced as detracting · from the interest and effort that should be

22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

devoted to the work of the Lodge. There has doubtless, in many instances,. been too close application to the work of conferring degrees
and not enough time devoted to the social feature, which is an important part of the purpose of the fraternity. Brethren have thus grown
restive, and have sought through the organization of clubs to supply
that in which they felt their Lodges were deficient. It is a question ,
which requires careful consideration, and one in which there is much
diversity of opinion. There is a distinction between Masonic clubs and
organizations of Master Masons formed upon plans similar to the·
shrine. The former are for social purposes and intellectual improvement, while the latter are for fun and enjoyment, pure and simple. We
are not sufficiently informed to speak intelligently as to the mfiuence· ,
of the latter, good or bad, upon the prosperity of the Lodge.
•
"It will be noted that in our reports we never fail to record cornerstone layings, for the reason that it is the only ceremony in Masonry
where the Speculative feature comes in touch with the Operative, reminding us of the time when our ancient brethren wro ught in both
Speculative and Operative Masonry.
"It is claimed that a Lodge of Operative Masons is still in existence in London, England, and that it is in possession of the ritual
which was made use of by Dr. Anderson in forming the Speculative
system. We have not the time or inclination to discuss this question at
the present time."
H. W. Woodward, Leadville, Grand Master.
Chas. H . J aco~son, Denver, Grand Secretary.
CONNECTICUT, 1912.
An Emergent Communication for the purpose of laying the cornerstone of the new Administration Building in the Masonic Home, Wal~
lingford, was held June 7, 1911-M.". w:. Brother Randolph B. Chapman presiding.
On June 17th, at Stafford Springs, an Emergent Communication was
held for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the Johnson Hospital, the M.". w:. Grand Master presiding in person and conducting
the ceremonies.
Three other Emergent Communications were held within the year
for various purposes, in all of which the M.". w:. Grand Master Randolph P. Chapman presided.
The One Hundred and Twenty-fourth Annual Communication was
held in the Masonic Temple in the city of Hartford, January 17, 1912M.". W.". Randolph E. Chapman, Grand Master, presiding.
His annual add(ess consists of a report in detail of the work of his
office during the year, and discloses a very satisfactory condition of
the Craft throughout his jurisdiction. He states that he attended the
lOOth anniversary of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia and
refers to the occasion as one long to be remembered.
In accordance with his recommendation, an appropriation of $100
was made to the George Washington National Masonic Memorial Association.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

23

A report submitted by the Deputy Grand Master and Grand Seel • tnry Havens recommended the recognition of the Grand Lodge Valle

11' Mexico and of the Grand Lodge of Porto Rico, and, acting upon the
I " •>rnrnendation of the Commit·tee of Jurisprudence, to whom the re11orts were referred, the Grand Lodge extended recognition to these two
I ii Rnd Lodges.
The Grand Secretary, Frank W. Havens, who also acts as Commith • on F oreign Correspondence, submits in a condensed but interesting
form a Report on Foreign Correspondence.
No reference, however, is made to California.
M." · w:. Justin Holden, Norwich, Grand Master.
R." · W.". Frank W. Havens, Hartford, Grand Secretary.

DELAWARE, 1911.
The One Hundred and Sixth Annual Communication of the M.".
W." • Grand Lodge of Delaware, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons
w11s held at Wilmington, October 4 and 5, A. D. 1911, A. L. 5911.
'
There are about 3,000 Masons in the Grand Jurisdiction of Delawurc, considerably less than half of the number in either of the great
metropolitan districts of California.
The jurisdiction, however, is in a condition of sound and vigorous
hralth, showing a substantial growth of membership and financial re••>nrces. "T he Grand Master reported that he had made a number
>f visits to sister Grand Jurisdictions during his term of office. He
was a visitor to the "Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania at its Annual Communication and attended the !25th anniversary celebration of that
Grand Lodge. He appointed Past Grand Master J. P.- Lukens to reprtsent him upon the occasion of the celebration of the lOOth anniver111ry of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, and Past Grand
Master Thomas J . Day to attend the meeting of the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association at Alexandria, Va.
Very little progress, so the Grand Master states, was made during
the year in the matter of the Masonic Home project, but we judge
that greater progress is likely to be accomplished in the near future
from the adoption of the report of the Committee on Masonic Hom~
which carried a recommendation of a per .capita tax for the benefit of
the. Home .of $1, .to be payable on rhe !st of July, 1912. If this per
capita tax is continued from year to year, progress in the future will
be comparatively rapid in bringing to a consummation this invaluable
adjunct to Masonic charity in the jurisdiction of Delaware.
The following is taken from the concluding paragraphs of the
Grand Master's address:
"I have given Y?U a brief account of my stewardship. There was
much that I should hke to have done, which the pressure of other obligations prevented me from doing. For whatever errors I have committed

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

I ask the favor- of your charity. For your loyalty and support I again
thank__you.
·
"There are a few more than 3,000 Masons scattered throughout
Dela:ware ; fhey represerrt an element that is among our best citizenship.
If tltese 3,CXD men in their business, political and social life were to yet
more faithfully exemplify their Masonic teaching they would constitute
an even mightier force for the upbuilding of our institutions and for
a betterment of the · conditions of all our people.
":Men are known by their fruits; and our frater_nity is tested _and
judged by the lives of all of those who are knawn as its members. The
ideal is· unattainable ; yet there is no advance. unless we rear o~tr standards far aloft before us; and the more we achieve the greater will be our
opportunity to achieve.
. .
"And let us remember, finatly, that Masonry does not .consist· m
the mere repetition of the words of a ritual, in the performance of
mystic rites and the perfunctory observance of the ancient landmarks.
These are only the means, but Masonry is that spirit which constantly
seeks to exemplify those virtues which are impressed upon all Masons
from the youngest Entered Apprentice to your most exalted officers."
An appropriation of $100 was made to the Washington Memorial
Fund as further evidence of the approval of the jurisdiction of _Del~ware of this very worthy object.
·
Past Grand Master Harry J. Guthrie submits the Report on Foreign Correspondence, which . includes a review of California, 1910~ ·
Concerning the annual oration which was delivered by W.". Brother
Charles A. Adams, he says :
"It was well handled and out of the beaten paths of anm;al talks."
From Brother Adams' oration he makes liberal quotations.
Enoch Moore, Wilmington, Grand Master.
Virginius V. Harrison, Wilmington, Grand Secretary.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 1911.
A portrait of J. .Claude Keiper, Grand Master for 1911, forms the
frontispiece of the published Proceedings.
Several Special Communications were held in the year, to-wit : for
· the purpose of constituting Mt. Pleasant Lodge No. 33, for the purpose
of laying the corner-stone of the new hall to be erected by King David
Lodge No. 28, for the purpose of considering and acting upon a report
from the Comtnittee on Masonic Temple, to which was referred the
matter of the advisability· of holding a fair in conjunction with the
Grand Chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star, and for the purpose of
laying the corner~stone of the new temple to be erec.ted by the Supreme
Council of the Scottish Rite.
A Stated Communication of the Grand Lodge was held in the
Masonic Temple, March 11, 1911, which Stated Communication was
held in accordance with the constitution for the purpose of exemplifyi~g the ;'work." 'the several degrees were ex~mplified, the Grand

25

Lecturer, Brother Naylor, and the officers of the Lodge of Instruction
were highly complimented upon the splendid proficiency with which the
work was rendered, after which the Stated Communication iadjourned.
A Stated Communication, in accordance with law, was held on
May 10, at which the Committee on Correspondence submitted a report relative to the York Grand Lodge of Masons of Mexico the
lineal descendant of the former Valle de Mexico Grand Lodge' and
the -committee recommended that fraternal relations be continued' with
this Grand Lodge, recognizing its change of name, and the re1>ort of
the Committee on Correspondence was adopted.
A Stated Communication was held in the Masonic Temple, September 23, 1911, Grand Master Keiper presiding.
The principal business transacted at this Conimunieation was
consideration of the proposed Masonic Fair to be held in conju~ction
with the Grand Chapter of the Order of East,rn Star, the purpose of
the Fair being two-fold, viz.: the reduction of the debt on the new
Ma sonic Temple, and completing the building of the Masonic and Eastern Star Home. The matter was referred to the committee With instructions to submit an early report.
At the Special Communication on October 14th a report of the
committee was adopted recommending" participation in the Fair and
fixing a basis of division ·of the net profits.
At the Special Communication held October 18th, at which time
the c~rner-stone of the new Scottish Rite Temple was laid, very instructive and eloquent addresses were delivered by Grand Commander
Richardson of the Supreme Council, by Grand Master Keiper and
others, and the event in every respect was most auspicious.
The One Hundred and First Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge was held ·in the Masonic Temple, December 20, 1911-Grand
Master Keiper presiding.
In the Grand Master's annual address the report is given by the
Repn;sentative t<? th~ Washirigton Memorial Assoeiation ancl of the
ceremonies connected with the centennial celebration of the Grand
Lodge. Thi.s celebration took place in the Masonic Temple, Washington, D. C., February 18, 19 and 20, 1911.
The features of the ceh~bration were a reception during the evening
of Saturday, February 18th, in the new Masonic Temple, to which the
Craft generally, and its friends, were invited; a religious service in the
Belasco 'theater, Lafayette Place, on Sunday afternoon, February 19th,
which was general in its admission; a Special Communication of the
Grand 'Lodge in the ·T emple on the morning of the 20th, and a banquet at the New Willard Hotel on the evening of the 20th.
This centennial celebration was the Masonic event of the year in
the District of Columbia. Invitations were extended tci the Grand
20

26

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE:

Masters of all the Grand Lodges with which the Grand Lodge of the
Distriet of Columbia is in affiliation_.:.79. :'fhe following were· present:
Grand Masters-Henry L. Ballou, Vermont;· Henry S. Bridges,
New Brunswick; Robert R. Burnam, Kentucky; Randolph B: Chapman, _Connecticut; Richard N. Hackett, North Carolina; John J. Hull,
North Dakota; James R. Johnson, South Carolina; Lawrence H. Lee,
Alabama;· Thomas J. Shyrock, Ma.ryland; Wyndham Stokes, West
Virginia; G. Roscoe Swift, Michigan.
tPast Grand Masters-John M. Carter, Maryland; Frank E. Harrison, South Caroliha; Frank W. Havens, Connecticut; William T.
Mitchell, Michigan; William H . Nichols, Texas.
Grand Secretary-George A. Beauchamp, Alabama.
The crowning event of the celebration was the banquet held at
the Willard Hotel on Monday evening, the 20th, and among the guests
were the President of the United States, William Howard Taft, a
large number of Grand Masters and Past Grand Masters of other
jurisdktions, officials of the Government, officers of the Army and
Navy, etc.
Addresses were made by the President of the United States and
by most of the visiting Grand Masters and Past Grand Masters o~
other jurisdictions. Among the honored guests was probably the oldest living ·Past Grand Master in the United States, viz : Past Grand
Master William T. Mitchell of the State of Michigan, who was born
in 1817 and was, therefore, at the time of this celebration, 94 years.
of age.·
The St. John's Day Communication was held in the Masonic Temple, December 27, 1911. The annual election of officers was held, and
the new officers duly installed.
·
Past Grand Master Baird submits his Report on Foreign Correspondence, which contains a review of California, 1911.
His "conclusion" upon the subject of documentary evidence, etc.,
Is interesting and is given in full, as follows:
"During the past year. seven addi~ional Grand Lodges ~ave .adopte?
the plan of exacting documentary evidence of good standing, m addition to the obligation of the Tyler and to the statutory examinatio!1,
from unvouched-for visitors. The total number of Grand Lodges m ·
North America now employing this protection is 27.
.
"But we still find, in some few Grand Lodge reports, utterances
against the adoption of this precaution, based, principally, upon the
belief that the purpose is to substitute these vouchers for the statutory examination.s, forgetting, . apparently1 that every Master,. l!pon
installation promises that he will exact suitable vouchers from v1s1tors
to his Lodge. But, as Grand Lodges get experience with impostors,
they will probably change their minds.
"From one 1911 report we quote the following :
"'Nevada joined the documentary evidence faddists, as they are
now dubbed because she recognized in it a means to hold in check
the ever-inc~easing army of impostors. Some of these weary way~

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

fllrers know the ritual from alpha to omega and speak it trippingly
•Ill the tongue and they beget a temperance that gives it smoothness. Yea, verily, one of these tired travelers was smooth tongued
enough to get a report from the examining committee, comprising
two Past Masters and a Past Grand Master, that the examination
was the best they had ever heard. Investigation showed that he
hnd never been a member of any Masonic Lodge.'
"We have noted, under the caption of Scotland, the disgraceful
act .~f a Dundee L<?d~e, in making a Mason of an American negro
eugihst, who has a iatl record, and who was the merest sojourner in
Scotland.
"A. private letter from a prominent Mason in Peru intimates that
the a~t.1ve. workers in the Scottish Rite in Lima are not averse to the
rehab1htatton of the Grand Lodge, but are determined not to surrender
Jurisdiction over the first three degrees. It must not be forgotten
t)1at after a Grand Master (Mr. Christian Dam) removed the great
hght from the altar of the Grand Lodge, some years ago other Grand
I;.odges interdicted the Grand Lodge of Peru, and though that great
hght was promptly replaced, the Grand Lodge of Peru waned and
bec,a1!1~ inert, ~bile th~ Consistory of the A. A; S. R. continued its
nct1v1ttes, notw1thstandmg the shngs and arrows of the industrious
] csuits in that priest-ridden rer.uhlic, and it may be that they will become
11 !nenace to the newly rehabilitated Grand Lodge of Peru. Added to
llus there are some few A-rnerican Grand Lodges which are withholding
recognition from the Grand Lodge of Peru."

w:.

At the election M.' .
Ben W. Murch was elected Grand Master and Arvine W. Johnston, Grand Secretary.
ENGLAND, 1911.
The Annual Grand Festival of the United Grand Lodge of Ancient,
Free and Accepted Masons of England was held at Freemasons' Hall,
J.ondon, on Wednesday, the 24th day of April, 1912--M.'. W: . Rt.
Hon. Lord Ampthill, G. C., S. I., G. C. I. 'E., Pro Grand Master, on
the throne, and other officials of varying ranks. were present.
Routine business was transacted, various appointments announced
and an address by the M.'.
Pro Grand Masti:r delivered, from
which we quote as follows:
.
"It is a high honor for any Mason to hold any office in the Grand
Lodge of England. That was the old idea and it is the idea which we
wish: to see revived. No brother1 whatever his social rank or position
outside. of .Masonry, need t_h ink 1t derogatory to his dignity to accept
RllY office m Grand Lodge. It ought to be sufficient to any Mason to
be a Grand Officer of the Grand Lodge of England, and although there
are gra~ations of ~a~k a:nd precedence for the necessary purposes of
cerem?mal, those d1stmchons ought not to arouse the slightest envy or
pride m the breast of any true Mason. Grand officers are Grand Officers, and to that extent there is equality among those who have been
1ingled out from the thousands of their brethren and recommended
for a distinction of which any man who understands and adheres to
Masonic prin~ipl~s may be proud. .No brothe_r has a rig~t to be promoted to office m Grand Lopge either by virtue of semority or for

w:.

•

RltPOtlT ON CORRESPONDEf'tC~.

RE:PORT O~ CO~SPOND~CE.

any athe; .reason which can be mechani~lly d~fined. The o~ly ri~ht in
· the ittatter is that of the Grand Master, who ts elected to his office by
the v6tes of the fifty thousand members of Grand Lodge, in or4er that
he rtfay exercise his discre~ion in matters which cannot be decided by
popular vote or by rule and rote."
.
A regular Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge was
held in Freeinasons' Hall, London, on the 5th day of June, 1912-R. '.
W:. Rt. Hon. Thomas Frederick Halsey, M.". A.'. Deputy Grand
Master, on the throne.
In the business transacted at this Quarterly Communication we
note this incident:
"His Majesty the late King of Denmark, did English Freemasonry ·
the high honor of' accepting the rank and !1ignity of .Past Gr~nd Master,
conferred on him in the year 1897 by Hts late MaJesty, Kmg Edwatd
VII. when M.". w:. Grand Master, and the board feels assured that
Gra~d Lodge will .unite with it in the expression of its heartfelt sympathy with theif Danish brethren in the irreparable loss they have suffered by the death of theif justly beloved sovereign and Grand Master."
H. R. H. Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, Grand Master. ·
Sir Edward Letchworth, Grand Secret;iry.

Lodg~. This comipittee c:loes not doem it expedient to break this longcstabhshed rule."
·
··

28

FLORIDA, 1912.
The Eighty-third Annual Communication was held in the city of
Jacksonville, January 16, 17 and 18, 1912.
The year was one of activity. The Grand Master, in his annual.
address, reports that he issued dispensations for nine new Lodges, an,d
that five corner-stones were laid in the year under Masonic auspices. .
He reports a request from a brother belonging to the jurisdiction
of Flotida for the establishment of a Lodge in Argentine, which request was referred to the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, whose
report upon the subject was adopted by the. Grand Lodge, as follows:
"To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Florida:
"Your Committee on Foreign Correspondence, to whom was re-·
ierred that portion of the address of the M." · w: · Grand Master
referring to the establishment of a Lodge in Buenos Ay.res, Argenti_ne, ,
South America beg leave to report that, although there ts no sovereign
Grand Lodge i~ that country having jurisdiction over ~he th~ee degrees
of Ancient Craft Masonry, and although the Masonic bodies of that
country have not been recognized by this Grand Lodge, your committ~e
recommends that the request for a charter for a Lodge to be located .m
._
that country be denied.
"This Grand Lodge has steadily refrained from the grantmg of
charters for Lodges to be located in countries outside of the immediate
jurisdiction of Florida.
. .. ·
"Although some of the, Grand Lo,dge.s of Ame~ica, potably those of
Massachusetts, Pehnsylv~ma, New 'York and C.a1~forma1 rav~ Lodges
located in distant countries,, we have not. deemed 1t pruoenf .or best to
grant charters to Lodges removed so far ftom the home of the Grand

•

29

That th~ Grand Lodge appreciated the manner in which the Grand
Master had conducted the affair• pf his office, notwithstanding the fact
that he was engrossed with the perform~nce of his duties as Governor
of the State at the same time, may be judged from the follpwing,
quoted from the report of the Special Coinmittee on Grand. Mas.t er's
nddress:
"We congratulate the Grand Lodge upon the efficiency, competency
1111d capable manne! in ;vhich the duties of this office ~ave be~n performed by our M .. W. · Grand Master. Although he ts at this time
charged with and is performing the duties of Governor of the great
State of Florida, he has, in addition to those duties, capably promptly
nnd efficiently performed the duties of Grand Master of Masons of
this State."
·
The report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence is, as
usual, by Past Grand Master Silas B. Wright, from whose introduction
we quote as follows:
"Ten years ago we presented our first report as correspo~dence
writer for Florida, and we then stated that it would be our endeavor
to present the doings of the Grand Bodies with as little comment as ia
consistent with a fair presentment of the facts.
"Such has been our rule and with the removal of the limit enjoined
upon us we have tried to still keep within due bounds and present
only the more interesting, not by any means all that is interesting, for
that we can not hope to do."
"We hold that 1t is one of the most important duties of the corre1pondent writer to notice and comment upon the differences in jurisrudence and customs of Grand Lodges, not as a criticism, but as
'I.formation, that we all may be kept as near together as possible and
tlie landmarks may not be infringed. Such comments as may appear
nrc ?,Ot inten?ed .to and we hope will not offend."
We notice that Grand Masters are not, as a rule, given to reporting long lists of decisions, which usually repeat and reiterate what has
already been decided."
"The action of the conference at Philadelphia, as reiterated by that
of Baltimore, has been productive of much good and several of the
minor differences in the laws have been changed to conform to the
rnmmon good, and much friction between Grand Jurisdictions has been
removed."

r.

*

*

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

" In Pennsylvania the decisions of the Grand Masters are not sub-

Ject to review by the Grand Lodge and the same condition exists in
Virginia and Massachusetts. In these jurisdictions the edict of the
Grnnd Master is sure-enough law."
California, 1910, receives courteous consideration.
He quotes approvingly the rule adopted by our Grand Lodge re1nrding charges against a member convicted of crime involving moral
t\trpitude, the effect of which was that in the event of final judgment
11f conviction against a Mason in the State or Federal courts of a crime

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

involving moral turpitude, it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of
any Lodge having jurisdiction of such Mason to prefer charges against
the Mason so convicted, provided such charges had not already been
preferred, and _to pr.ess to conclusion & trial on account thereof.
From Brother Wright's "conclusion," inasmuch as the matters referred to are of interest to Masonic students generally, we quote as
follows:
"The action of the Grand Lodge of Scotland in granting charters
in the Canal Zone at Panama has been the .means of causing a peculiar ·
condition of affairs. They have ·established two Lodges there, Sojourqers No. 874 and Thistle No. 1013 both being at Colon.
''This province, while credited to the Republic of Panama, is in
the Canal Zone, practically United States territory, and the interesting
feature of this erection of a Masonic province in this territory lies in
the fact that the Grand Lodge of Scotland has thereby brought to American territory a dispute of two of her own Lodges and left them to
fight it out as best they can, viz.: The conundrum of wh\te and black
Lodges of legitimate Masonry, acknowledging the same paternity, under
the same jurisdiction, under warrants issued from the same Grand
Lodge, and yet two separate and distinct Lodges, neither acknowledges
the right of visitation to the other, and the existence of which may_
affect the fraternal relations Scotland now has with bodies believing '
that Masonry belongs only within the ·confines of the Caucasian race.
A. AND A. S. R. AND CLANDESTINISM.

"One of the incidents of the year which may have a far-reaching
effect upon Masonic conditions in the United States and which indicates ·
the position which will be taken by the regular A. and A. S. R. bodies
of the States on the matter of clandestine Lodges is the statement made
by Brother James D. Richardson, Sovereign Grand Commander of the
Supremr Council of the 33d Degree of the Southern Jurisdiction, in
his allor.ution at the biennial session at Washington, D.C., in October
last.
"He says that their relations with ·Spain remain as they were two
years ago. Most diligent efforts on his part to obtain information in
order that he might make proper recommendation which would be satisfactory has resulted in entire failure. Three attempts have been made •
to get the Sovereign Grand Commander to explain whether the Suprem~
Council upholds the Grand Orient in planting bodies of Masonry in
this country, but without result. He says that he does not see how
they (the Supreme Council) can restore relations of amity with the
Spanish Council and he does not recommend it. He says: 'I am unwilling to maintain relations of amity with any Supreme Council or
Grand Orient in Europe or elsewhere that undertakes to establish and
maintain subordinate bodies of Masonry in any State of the United
States.'"

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"When traveling and you present yourself to a Lodge for examination, when you are personally unknown, you will be first required to
show some documentary evidence or proof· of membership, attested by
your Lodge Secretary and by the Grand Secretary. If you do not have
this evidence, you can not be examined in the following States: Alabama, British Columbia, California, Canada, Delaware, District of

31

C~lumbia, Iowa, Kansas, Manitoba, Minnesota, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Yi;irk, Nova Scotia, North Carolina, Oregon,
Rhode Isla!1d, South Carolina, South Dakota, Vermont, Pennsylvania
and Wyommg.
"Other States are changing their rules as fast as possibl.e so _as to
make the same requirements."
CLANDESTINISM.

"The hydra-headed monster 'clandestinism' still shows his slimy
trail and in some sections is quite active.
"A certain publication claiming to be Masonic has been giving aid
and comfort to the clandestine, especially those in open defiance . of and
contrary to the regu!ar M'!sonic aut~qrity. Thei~ actiqn is inexplicable,
unless 1t be from d1sappomted ambition for office or a sordid desire
to swell a subscription list at whatever cost.
'
.
'.'Negro Masonry, which is absolutely without authorized existence,
is given comfort, more than was claimed even by Upton during the
heat,.of hi~ att~mpt to foist it upon the Grand Lodge. ·
. The invasion qf s~veral States by. the ·Grand Orient of Spain is
claimed by them as JUSt1fied because Spam does not choose to recognize
the American doctrine of exclusive jurisdiction and American Grand
Lodges are read a lecture b;y the aforesaid paper for not giving the
Grand Orient concurrent jurisdiction.
"The paper argued that the 'American Masonic Federation,' which
has established Lodges in the Western States, and which claims the
'Grand Lodge Inter-Montana A. A'. S. R.' as its parent, is regular because it was chartered by the 'Supreme Council 33d Degree of Louisiana,' which in turn came from the 'Council of Rites of Scotland.'
"No matter how regular the Grand Lodge of Florida is or even the
'Council of Rites of Scotland,' if either issue charters to Masonic Lodires
to be located in the territory of the Grand Lodge of Nevada for instance, the Lodge so chartered becomes clandestine.
'
"Th~ reason why Masonry is iireater on this continent than in
Europe 1s that we do purely Masomc work, and are not concerned in
plots or conspiracies against the governments, as has been the case with
many so-called Masonic bodies across the water. Stin we are told
t?at it is time for us to become 'an active force' and 'work for personal
liberty,' etc. Should w~ leave the beaten path and become a political
body a~ has be~n done m so~e parts of Europe, we would again invite
an ant1-Masomc crusade which would be even more far-reaching in
effect than that of some seventy years ago.
"Another body in Ohio calling itself 'The Independent Order
of Universal Freemasonry' is making a push for notoriety. A man by
name of Pomfrey, in Kentucky, is claiming the right to confer degrees
from the 1st to and including the 33d.
"Darius Wilson, who attained some notorietY. in Massachusetts as
a degree vendor, has just been released from jail upon pledge that he
will refrain from defrauding dupes out of a few dollars for bogus
degrees . of no value. He was being prosecuted by the government for
fraudulent use of the mails.
"Matters of that. kind ha~e their day and ultimately run themselves to earth, as did the Phinney Grand Lodge of Ohio. We have
no doubt that the publication espousing their cause will ultimately go
·
the same way.
"For the dupes of such organizations we have more of pity than
contempt.''

32

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GEORGIA, 1911.
Tiie Qne Hundred and Twenty-fifth Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Geor~ia was
held in the City of Macon, October 31st, November 1st and 2d, 1911M.". w:. George M. Napier, Grand Master, presiding.

brot~er's youthful but valiant service had been rendered for the altar

At the opening of his annual address, the Grand Master states:
"Freemasonry in Georgia is to-day at high tide. The great order,
like an ever:flowing sea, with its tide rising, rising, goes forward in the
broad sweep of its swelling prosperity. We need· to thank God, the
Great Artificer, and to take courage ; but while pressing forward to the
yet greater things which lie before us, we should let our hearts be constraine~ to humility and take heed that we do not seek to grow too
rapidly in numbers.
"Tbe state of the Craft in this Grand Jurisdiction is worthy of
commendation. Our membership is united in purpose, harmonious and
prosperous. It is an exalted honor to preside over the splendid body
of tru~ men and genuine Craftsmen who constitute the Grand Lodge
of Georgia.
"In ruscharging the manifold duties of the high office to which you
elected me one year ago, I have been most fortunate in having the wise
counsel and fraternal assistance of four Past Grand Masters.
"These brethren might be likened unto the four cardinal virtues of
Masonry. Fortitude, the first in the quartologue, would be represented
by that sturdy veteran of the war of the sixties, who, when he found the
cause for which he had battled four years in vain irrevocably overpowered, laid aside the instruments of war for the implements of husbandry
and turned his face toward a new morning of peace; and, while healing the sick, as the good physician, and in the councils of state as well,
he cheered an impoverished and all but ruined people toward the
rebuilding of their shattered country. Thank God,. there were others
like him-soldiers devoted to their country, heroes who were overpowered but not discouraged, Masons inspired by the sublimest qualities
of true courage, who, when the tocsin of war had ceased its din, led
our homeless but not hopeless people into a glorious era of prosperity,
which staads unrivaled in all the annals of mankind. Fo.r titude has
indeed been exemplified by our M.". w:. Brother J. W. Taylor.
"The votaries of prudence wisely judge and determine all things
pertaining to their duties and relations to their fellow men. This prudential virtue has an exemplar in the person and character of that Past ,
Grand Master who, save one, was honored by the longest teunre of
office in the latter history of this Grand Jurisdiction. The cardinal ,
virtue of prudence, that admirable quality ·of mind and heart which
should always inspire confidence and command the listening ear, is
ass~ned to Brother Max Meyerhardt.
"Our minds are forced from the allurements of vice by the practice
of that truly commendable virtue, temperance. Its ways are ways of
pleasantness and all its paths are peace. Another of our former
Grand Masters may well be pointed to as the mould of temperance,
his eloquent voice at all times ready to counsel wise and temperate
jud~mellt. We truly behold a pillar of temperance in Brother Thos.
H. Jeiries.
"For the other virtue we have another Past Grand Master. He, too,
followeQ the dauntless commander who waged the most humane warfare known to history-for Robert E. Lee was a Mason-,-and when his

of h1$ country, he forgot the embittered scenes of warfare in his
a w'.lkeaed l?v.e .for mankind) and his daily walk and life have been sign~hzcd b>: JU~ttci; and charity to all, and malice toward not
The
virtue of Justice is nobly supported by Brother Henry Banks."

one.

The Grand Master was exceedingly active during the year. Ten
dispensations were granted for new Lodges, thirteen corner-stones were
lai~ ~nder direction of the Grand Lodge, and concerning this phase of
activity the Grand Master has this to say:
MANY CORNER-STONES LAID.

"Never before in the history of this Grand Jurisdiction probably
have there been so many corner-stones laid by our Craft
. "Many splendid. public buildings and edifices to be dev~ted to education •. have had their foundation. stones laid. w~th the imposing ceren;ionies of Freemasonry. Knowmg the public mterest in these occasions, I have, whenever possible, attended in person and when unable
to do so have delegated to a skilled and capable G;and Lodge officer
or Master or Past Master the duty of directing the ceremonies."
The Masonic Home is one of the important adjuncts of Georgia
Masonry, but yet there are differences of opinion apparently as to
whet~er or not it is the most practical way of providing for the aged
and, m a sense, helpless members of the fraternity, as may be judged
from the following statements embodied in the Grand Master's address:
THE MASONIC HOME.

"The ~fasonic Home now has thirty-six inmates-twenty-eight children.. an~ e1g~t old people. Of the latter there is only one male.
It is ev1.dently not to ~he. best inte~ests o~ the children and aged
pe?pl~ to be m the same building; and, m my Judgment, no additional
huildmgs should be erected at the Home until the question of trans·
portatio? is. so!ved. And I believ~ that we could conduct a more successful mst1tuhon to have only one class of beneficiaries-either chil·
dren or old people.
"The avera~e age~ person, having at~achments for the locality he or
she has long lived m and for the friends and acquaintances Joni
known, would be happier to remain with his or her own people. It
costs us now $193 ~er capita to maintain each inmate of the Home.
The $16 per month, If properly expended for the benefit of the old in~ates, wo.uld, as a rule, make them happier in the home of some relative or friend.
"The room occupi~d by the aged l?eople at t~ Home would accommodate more than twice as many children. By declining to take any
more . old people, and perhat>s by allowing those there now the option
of usmg the $16 per month for their support, we might quickly change
to the single feature of a children's home.
"Should this Grand Lodge undertake to contribute to the support of
aged dependents outside the Home, it should require the recommend•
Ing Lodge, as a rule, to contribute monthly the same amount allowed
by the Grand Lodge, and to overlook the expenditure of the money.

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"The inmates of the Home ·seem to be faring well, and I have been
especially gratified to learn of the progress made by the children in
school. They have had the assistance and encouragement of Brother
P. V. Rice, the Superintendent, an experienced teacher. ·certain improvements in the way of outbuildings are imperatively needed at the
Home. All the matters have the careful consideration of the Trustees
of the Home, and their action should be fully reported in the Proceedings."
Some of the finest specimens of Masonic literature that are yearly
current in · Grand Lodge reports are found in the annual addresses. of
the Grand Masters of Georgia, and that the high standard is maintained·
this year may be judged from the following conclusion of Grand Master Napier's address:
MASONRY IN OUR OWN LAND.

"In 1893, at the World's Exposition in the city of Chicago, thousands of our countrymen beheld the beautiful structure on the shore
of the Great Lake, called the Peristyle. On its colonnade stood heroic
figures of the pioneer races of America, and the crown of the watergate bore an inscription to the pioneers of-civil and religious liberty.
"But upon the very summit of the Peristyle were the masterful
words, 'Ye shall know the Truth, and the Truth shall make you free.'
"I remembered then that an English Freemason, Thomas Cromwell,
began the agitation which resulted in the migration to this land of a
band of patriots who considered freedom of conscience, and the right
to worship God in the manner dictated by their own convictions, dearer
than the ties of home and the scenes and associations of childhood ; and
my mind brought vividly before me a series of pictures pertaining to
this wonderful land, in which Masons were the chief actors."
"Out there, just off Cape Henry, Virginia, in 1607, a small boat left
the sailing vessel and put in to land. It bore Edward Maria Wingfield,
Bartholomew Gosnold and four others. They were among · the first
white men making a permanent settlement on this hemisphere. Two of
them were Masons; and thus did our brethren aforetime march in the
vanguard of human progress and human liberty!
.
"A few months later there we.re to be seen operative Masons layirig
the foundation of the first parliament house and of the little church at
amestown, and at the same time Craftsmen who had ventured chartess on the sea of storm-engendering liberty were organizing a Lodge
of Masons, to keep alive in the new country the 5acred flame which
had long illumined the old land.
"In June, 1776, Richard H enry Lee, in the Continental Congress,
moved that a committee be appointed to draft a Declaration of Independence. He was a Mason, and my heart thrills with fervor and pride
when I recall that this first bold step was taken by a Freemason. History records that there were named on that committee Roger Sherman,
John Adams, Robert R. Livingston and Thomas Jefferson. Livingston was Grand Master of New York, and it is said that Jefferson was
a Mason. Whether he was or not, he accepted the suggested verbiage
.of the Chancellor of New York, for the very words of the Declaration
of Independence are Masonic, and none other than a Mason could
have dictated them.

l

35

"When this im!11o~tal docum~nt . ha~ been. submitted. and adopted,
there was some hes1tat1on about s1gnmg 1t. With stentorian voice John
Hancock thundered the words, 'Sign, Sign!' And this great Mason led
the way to the desk :ind with flourishing rubric. a~fixed. his bold signature. Of t~e forty-six who eagerly followed his 11lustr1ous example it
has ?e~n said that all but four were Masons. This is hardly probable,
but 1t 1s undoubtedly true that not more than a half dozen of the signers were not members of our order. .
"When the Declaration had been signed, the Liberty Bell gave forth
a peal that resounded throughout the worfd. It was answered from
England by a peremptory order for the arrest of John Hancock and
John Adams. General Gage secretly dispatched 800 British troops to
Lexington at 10 o'clock at night to seize him: But a volunteer of intrepid daring crossed the river under the very guns of the English manof-war Somerset, looking back at the lantern signals from the tower of
Old North Church, which told him which way the troops had gone. lt
was a Mason, Robert Morris, who held the lantern that memorable night.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts erected a suitably inscribed stone
at his grave. It was a Mason who saw the sign-not of distress but
of love for country, a warning to be caught up by the Sons of Libe~ty­
and the young patriot took horse and galloped to Lexington shouting
at every door to arouse the Minute Men.
'
" 'A hurry of hoofs in a village street,
A shape in the moonlight, ·a bulk in the dark,
And beneath from the pebbles in passing a spark
Struck out by a steed flying fearless and fleet.'
'
"Such was the 'midnight ride' o.f the immortal patriot and Mason
later Grand Master of Massachusetts, Paul Revere!
'
"The Deputy Gi:and Master of Massachusetts was the engineer
who laid out the breast works of Breed's Hill and Bunker Hill· and
the then Grand Master, Joseph Warren, incarnadined the hi~toric
slopes of Bunker Hill with his lifeblood.
"And what a long roll of heroes of the Revolution who were
Masons : the fearless Israel Putnam, 'Light . Horse Harry Lee' 'Mad
Anthon:( Wayne, the Car?lina 'Swamp Fox,' Francis Mario'n, and
the Fabian General, Nathaniel Greene, whose body was given sepulture
in .Georgia soil. Indeed, virtually all the military leaders of the Revolution were Masons, from the noble Warren, who died Grand Master of
Massachusetts, to him who ~ossessed a glory that was not criminal, a
pomp that was not contemptible, the first, the last, the best the Cincinnatus of the West, the first patriot and the first Mason 'of them all
whose name stands alone in history~ur brother, George W ashington i
"Masonic Lodges were organized in the armies of the Revolution
and the teachings of Masonry did much to increase the ardor of pa~
triotic feeling. In the eventful struggle no battle was fought no
victory won, no trophy gained, no deed of fame blazoned on the natfcinal
escutcheon, but the names of Masons mingle. with the achievements.
" I see, standing before many an assemblage, firing the hearts of his
hearers with his unequalled oratory, the noble Virginian who drafted
the first resolutions against the Stamp Act in 1765. H e was the first
Governor and one of the early Grand Masters of Virginia the goldenhearted, diamond-tongued, P atrick H enry.
'
"~hen the struggl~ fo r our inde~endence was at its height, an
American statesman, ph1l~sopher. and diplomat :went to Paris to solicit
aid. He first sought adm1ss1on mto the Masonic Lodges of P aris, and

REPO~T ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORR~SPONDENClt.

by that means obtained an entree to the heart of France. This man
was the Grand Master of Pen!!~~lvania, Benjamin Franklin.
"Wh.en at Yorktown, in 1787, Washington, with 7,00CI Frenchmen
under Rochambeau, confronted Cornwallis and his redcoats, victory
would have been impossible but for the timely presence of the French
fleet under Count de Grasse, which entered Chesapeake 'Bay and blocked
the James and York Rivers. Back of it all was the Masonic influence
of the quiet, able Franklin. But for him ·and our brethren of that period,
American indepepdeace could never have been achieved. General Lafayette, our gallant French compatriot, was a Mason. Likewise Baron
DeKalb, the great Bavarian, and Count Pulaski, the noble Pole, who
gave their life-blood to the cause of American freedom.
"Among distinguished American Masons might be named:
"James Madison, the able chief executive during our second war
with England, and his chief lieutenant, who afterward became President, was brave 'Old Hickory,' Andrew Jackson, who was one of the
Grand Masters of Tennessee.·
"James Monroe, another President, author of the celebrated 'Doctrine' which we invoke to make foreign powers keep 'hands off' American territory, and by right of which we removed Spain, bag and bag- ·
gage, from the Western Hemisphere.
"Henry Clay, the keen, brilliant, popular statesman, who had the
high moral courage to prefer to be right rather than be President, the
most brilliant and powerful Grand Master who ever presided over the
·
Masons of Kentucky.
"Stephen A. Douglass, the noted Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge
of Illino1s, a statesman of giant intellect and of pure and untarnished
character, whose chief adorning virtue was his devoted patriotism and
zealous love for his country.
"Nor should I omit the chief star in our judicial firmament, who
for a third of a century was Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of
the United States, who, by his legal acumen, profound learning and
astute knowledge, made into enduring. form the judicial fabric of the
Republic, and by which the high court over which he presided has become the most august tribunal of the world-John Marshall.
"Only lack of time forbids my placing more names on this beadroll.
"The coinage of a country is looked to as significant in many ways.
In future ages, when the coins of this country are examined, they will
be found to show more than the mere dates. I hold in my hand coins
of both gold and of silver, and these, and indeed every coin of this
Republic, except the subsidiary coins, have stamped upon their face an
inscription significant to every Mason-'In God we trust.' A few years
since, when it was proposed to strike these words from the dies for our
coins, the American people, led by the Masons, protested so vehemently that Congress perpetuated this beautiful testimonial to our dependence upon the God of Nations for our help and for our national
guidance.
·
"The mottoes of ma.ny of the States have direct Masonic significance:
"Rhode Island's coat-of-arms shows 'Hope' above an anchor on a
shield floating in the sea.
·
"Kentucky, 'United we stand, divided we fall,' with two brethren
clasping hands.
"Louisiana, 'Justice.'
"Missouri, 'The safety of the people is the highest law.'
"Texas, a five-pointed star that ·is significant to every Mason.

"Nebraska, 'Equality before the law.'
"Califorhia, 'Eureka,' the. wotd O'llr ancient Brother Pythagoras
used when he perfected his gteat rilathetttatical demonstration of three
in one-the unity of the Trinity-and to celebrate which he sacrificed
one hundred oxen.
"The most famous public edifice in the world is the Congressional
Library Building in the city of Washington. It covers acres and cost
millions of dollars. Beneath its great dome is an arcade which Is· a
triumph of the decorator's art. Yet the most striking features of all
the mural faintings, carvings, statues, frescoes and friezes are the
paintings o the figures of women, in heroic proportions, representing
the four cardinal virtues of Freemasonry-Fortitude, Prudence, Temperance and .Justice. On the four sides of the splendid arcade the
mightiest ~ovemment on earth has plated the emblems of the most
imperishable fraternity ever organized among men, and has adopted
its cardinal virtues as the noblest expressions of civilized mankind I
"And our own commonwealth, loved Georgia, settled bv that great
man and Mason, General Oglethorpe, who accepted the charter of the
colony 'in trust for the poor,' bears on its escutcheon three great
Masonic tenets, 'Wisdom, Justice and Moderation.'
"It was Sidney Lanier, a native o.f this city of Macon, who, in 1876,
wrote a Centennial Meditation of Columbia, and penned the words :

87

" 'Long as thine Art shall love true love,
Long as thy Science truth shall know,
Long as thine Eagle harms no Dove,
Long as thy Law by law sha11 grow,
Long as thy God is God above,
Thy brother every man belowSo long, dear Land of all my love,
Thy name shall shine, thy fame shall glow I'
"But, my brethren, this is an age of progress. Even a mighty force
like l< reemasonry must know the time of day and be alert to the process
of the suns. We must hold to our landmarks ; we must bear unchanging
allegiance to the great principles which have made Freemasonry perpetual. Yet, 'O tempora ! 0 Mores !' times and customs are changing,
and men are changing with them. All things seem to be set to the pace
of electricity. The macadmized highway, the automobiles, and the telephone have made of every man a neighbor. What space has not already
been anniliilated the airship will likely conquer.
"Withal new dangers have arisen to this Republic. The mad desire
for place and wealth stalks abroad with brazen front. The magic suddenness with which princely fortunes·were to be accumulated has caused
to be permanently established in our land the worship of the Golden
Calf. And its devotees are not alone the rich, hut men often drawn
from the ranks of those who are possessed of but a moderate living, yet
who, infected by the fever of avarice, or moved by envy of the rich
whose eyes stick out with fatness, burn incense to the god of Mammon.
Greed seems to be a modern germ, and a restive people, which sustains
a growing influx of new and foreign hlood, finds crime increasing and
nn ever-present effort to foist intemperance upon the body politic.
"Against these encroachments Masonry has· quietly inculcated her
noble teachings more zealously than ever, to raise the barrier of moral
suasion against the subtle influences which would degrade, weaken and
finally destroy the State.

REPORT ON ·CORRESPONDENC::-i.

t<.EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"On every side we hear of conservation. Our forests, our waterpowers, our scenic attractions and all natural resources, have become
the subject of earnest consideration-legislators and statesmen ar·e
endeavoring to preserve them from waste and destruction. But, my
brethrert, the noblest conservation will be that of our manhood. Let
us raise rather than lower its standard. The Tyrian King sent for
Solomon's temple building quarried stone and cedar timber and precious
jewels; ·but the most vafoable ·contribution he made toward building the
house of the Lord was a man!
"My brethren, the chief glory of this nation-the brightest gem in
the jeweled crown of this Repubhc-is its two millions of Masons, wbo,
!rusting in God? belieying in ~emperance, devoted to justice, p~acticing
industry and d1spensmg charity, leaven the great body politic. Yet
our order has raised up no political party, it has stirred up no sedition, •
'encouraged no mutiny, engaged in no factions. On the contrary, every
inflence of Freemasonry has been to foster zealous love of country and
obedience to law. Without prescribing sect or creed, it has been the
very right hand of religion, and it has encouraged education and led
in every good work.
"Forty thousand of these Masons are in Georgia. They are a militant moral force. They are the bone and sinew of our land, true
patriots-the inspiration; the hope, the mainstay of our country; the
most potent . influence for !!'OOd, and the chief asset in the greatness,
grandeur and glory of this Empire State!

Ii the committe~ which had under consideration the subject of Masonry
Ill lht Philippine Islands, but in accordance with the recommendation
I <1Ur Committee on Jurisprudence that resolution was not adopted.
M.'. w:. George M. Napier, Grand Master.
R.". w:. W. A. Wolihin, Grand Secretary.

38

"'What constitutes a State?
Not high-raised batdement or labored mound,
Thick wall or moated gate;
Not cities proud with spires and turrets crowned;
Not .bays and broad-armed ports,
Where., laughing at the storm, .rich navies ride;
Not starred and spangled courts,
Whose low-browed baseness wafts perfume to pride.
No : Men, high-minded men,
Men who their rights and .duties know,
And knowing dare maintain,
Present the long aimed blow,
.
And crush the tyrant while they rend the chain;
These constitute a State I'"
'fhe Report on Correspondence is by Brother A. Q. Moody, in
which California, 1910, is considered.
Under California he comments favorably upon the oration of
Brother Chas. A. Adams on the theme "Masonry in Business and
Politics" and makes substantial quotation from Brother Adams' oration.
He incorrectly states that the resolution offered by the Committee
~n the "Status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands" that fraternal
relations be discontinued with certain Grand Lodges, naming them, because of the fact that these Grand Lodges recognize and have fraternal
relations with. Lodges in the Philippine Islands, deriving their authority from the Grand Orients of Spain. That resolution was recommended

IDAHO, 1911.
The Forty-fourth Annual Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand
I 11c l •.• of Free and Accepted Masons of Idaho was held in Masonic
11111 in Boise, Idaho, on the 12th of September, 1911, and was called
'" meter by M.'. w:. Byron.S. Defenbach, Grand Master.
Ji'rom the Grand Master's address we quote as follows :
"Forty-four years ago next December this Grand Lodge held its
111 11 Communication, in the Masonic lodge room in Idaho City, then.the
I 11 lt irial capital. The time that has elapsed since that memorable
1111 , ling has not been long, viewed as a· part of the history of Masonry,
11 I lhc changes that have taken place in the jurisdiction of this Grand
ll11cly are perhaps greater than those that have occurred in any other
J111 l11diction in the world in a similar period.

•

*

*

*

*

•

•

•

•

• . •

"It is a great pleasure· to know that the historic lodge room in

11 hlch

Idaho Masonry had its birth is still in existence and is being

1w d as of old for the propagation and dissemination of Masonic truths.
Ill• walls are covered and its archives filled with the most interesting

t 1Ilea of our early existence. Every care should be taken to preserve
lhr •' sacred mementos. The jewels, handwrought from native mate11111, the pillars, carved from native woods, the hat the Master wore, and
1111 very balances upon which the golden dues and fees were weighed,
II • precious memorials which should be guarded with the most jealous
I II C

11

The year during which Grand Master Defenbach presided over the
l ' 1 nft was one of reasoirnble prosperity and of good Masonic work.

l le visited a· number of the subordinate Lodges. He granted dis;
He dedicated the Masonic Tern-pit ut Coeur d'Alene, and under his direction the Junior Grand Warden
d11dlcated the Masonic Temple at Twin Falls, and on June· 17th, under
Muonic auspices, the corner-stone of the new public school building
111 1lagerman was laid.
I' nRRtions to form three new Lodges.

A number of decisions of a local character were rendered, and
thr Grand Master concludes his address with a number of recommendations, among them being one which will interest the Craft generally
In that he believes that the so-called "official cipher" should be aboll11hed. This is what he says upon the subject:
"I recommend the adoption of a· resolution instructing the Grand
Mn~ter, Grand Lecturer, and each subordinate Lodge in the jurisdicti~n
to deliver to the Grand Secretary, on or before the second Tuesday m
leptemher, 1912, each and every copy of any written or printed cipher

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
or other kc:y to the esoteric or symboli~ work of the fraternity, to the
end that said key.s ~ay be de?troyed by or u?der the supervision of the
Antt~al Commum~atton of this Grand Body tn the month of Septetnbe'r
herembefore ment10ned.
.
"I ~arnes.tly hope !hat this recommendation will not provoke any
great d1scuss10n on this flo9r. The~e are brethren present who, five
year~ ~go, favored the adoption of this key, but many of them feel thaf
con~~ttons have changed ~o that its use can now be dispensed with.
.
Personally, I ha~e. little sympathy with ihe rather hysterical objections .n,1ade ~o the offtc1al key by your worthy brethren in other States.
Co.nq1t1o~s m our Western jurisdictions were so different from those
ex1stmg m the older settled communities, our distaru:es were so great
our. Lodg~s so scattereq, and our membership so cosmopolitan, that com~
parison with other portions of the world were not possible."
The Grand Lecturer, while admitting that the "cipher" has been
in s?~e instances a great help, its use, nevertheless, is contrary to the
traditions and the spirit of our iristitution, and agrees in the main with
the Grand Master that it should be eliminated.
His comments upon the subject are as follows:
"In no instance have I found the use of the cipher abused and in
all candor I mus~ acknow~e~ge that' i! h~s ~en a great help to tnany
of our. I;odges, bemg a dec1s1ve authority m times of doubt and in some
cases !t has e~a~leq brethren to become almost perfect iri the work.
Yet with all this .1rt .Its favor a.nd altho~gh it. is absolutely unintelligil)le
to th~ profane, 1t 1s unQuesttonably mcons1stent with the traditions
and !II?~ honored customs of our ancient and ·honorable fraternity.
~he tmttate who was wont to believe that from time immemorial our
ritua) has been handed down from mouth to ear is necessarily disappo!nted, and his high ideals of our institutiort are dethroned when
he dis.covers our esoteri~ ;work is not descending one to another in the
seclusive manner he. ant1c.1pated. Experien~e ~as demonstrated that, a~
a rule, when the ritual 1s taught orally, 1t 1s most deeply imprinted
. upon the memory and the results are more permanent. It is also evident that, as only o~e ciph~r is permitted in each Lodge, it has a
natu_ral tc:n~ency to disturb its peace and harmony in that it grants a
spec1~l privilege to the few who have access to the cipher. I look upon
the. cipher as a short cut, a substitute for the sacrifice of time and application of mental effort, which 'tie can dispense with to our own credit
and to the bene~t of our noble institution."
Concerning the Masonic Home project, the committee reported as
follows, which report was adopted:
.
"We, your committee on the proposition of establishing a Masonic
Home, beg leave to report as follows :
"We have .carefully canvassed the plan and are ·heartily in favor of
steps being . ta~en .lookin~ to t~e establishment of such a Hotne, but
we find that 1t will be 1mp<?ss1ble to formulate and present to this
Gran~ Lodge a c?mplete outlme. of t~e plans by which a fund may be
established for this purpose. It ts evident that some legislation on the
part ?f t~e 9rand L<?dge ~ill b<t necessary in .connection therewith and
at th1$ session the time 1~ too short ,to consider such a proposition ;
therefore., wi;, your committee, recommend that .a special committee of

41

I ~r members of this Grand Lodge be appointed to formulate and
1111 1 rnt to the Grand Lodge at its session for the year 1912, a detailed
11l11n, together with proposed changes in the laws and resolutions neces• uy to provide a fund for the establishment of said Masonic Home."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by George E. Knepper,
111 which California, 1910, is fraternally considered.
Frank C. Bowman, Idaho Falls, Grand Master.
Theophilus W. Randall, Boise, Grand Secretary.
ILLINOIS, 1911.
Jn compliance with the provisions of the Constitution and By1 awR of the Most Ancient, Free and Accepted Lodge of the State of
llllnois, the Seventy-second Annual Communication was held in the city
•tf Chicago, at Medinah Temple, commencing on Tuesday, the 10th day
of October, A. D. 1911, A: L. 5911, at 10 o'clock a. m., and was opened
Ill Ample Form by the M. '. W.". Grand Master Albert B. Ashley.
Jn the opening portion of his address the Grand Master refers
f1"Ungly to the work of the Grim Reaper during the preceding year,
enaking especial mention of Past Grand General John Corson Smith, of
whom he states that his extensive travels around the world, and his
wide acquaintance among the Masons of our own and other lands, made
tht loss more universally felt than that of any other Mason in the
world.
Mention is also made of the death of R.". W .'. Brother Charles
Jll~her, Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge in 1867, who was, it
1ppcars from the Grand Master's statement, the oldest member of the
( '. l'llnd Lodge.
The year was one of marked activity, dispensations having been
11rnnted in the year for the formation of twenty new Lodges, and
twenty corner-stones. were laid under Masonic auspices,
There was a net gain in membership in the year of 5801 , and the
IOtRl membership of the Grand Jurisdiction of Illinois on June 30, 1911,
wn~ 108,068, ranking next to New York numerically of the Grand
J11risdictions. in the United States.
The two Masonic Homes in Illinois, the one at Sullivan for adults
1u1<l the one at LaGrange for children, are both in a very satisfactory
1•ondition, there being sheltered at the Sullivan Home about 100 adults
and at the LaGrange Home about 85 children. That these children are
wttl behaved and of excellent character may be judged from references
111 them in the reports of the Executive Committee, the Superintendent
and others. The Executive Committee having charge of the two Illinois Homes, of which M.'. W.". George M. Molten is chairman, refers
tn the character of the children in the following appreciative language:
21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
•tour children have made an excellent impression o~ the people of
LaGrange. They are spoken of by many as examples in conduct for .
other children to emulate, and in their school life they have been heartily received into the student body and have shown by their record that
they are far above the average in politeness, punctuality and general
scholarship."
The Grand Master makes this recommendation concerning the
proper channel of communication between Lodge~ of different grand
jurisdictions, viz., through the Grand Master of each State :
"Most Grand Lodges require that all communications between
Lodges of different States be sent through the Grand Master. The reason for this is obvious. In requesting Lodges in. other States to confer
degrees application might pe made to clandestine or irregular Lodges.
In asking waiver of jurisdiction the same care is needed. Lodges as
such should not invade other Grand Jurisdictions to visit or confer
degrees without consent . and approv:il of .Gran~ Ma~te;s, . w~o are responsible for the regularity of work m their various 1urisd1ct1ons.
" It ·has become necessary for Grand Masters to otter apologies to.
me for unwarranted action of Lodges in invading the jurisdiction of
Illinois. I have felt called upon to make similar amends to Grand Masters of other States.
"One of our Lodges asked a Lodge iri another State to confer the
2d and 3d Degrees upon ·a candidate, collect and send the fee . The
degrees were conferred and fee collected as requested. The foreign
Lodge not only kept the fee, but stole the candidate by having him sign
the by-laws of the Lodge and entering his name on their roll of membership. My attention was calle.d to the case. When I c:illed the attention of the Grand Master to this he very promptly reqmred the Lodge
to make a satisfactory adjustment. Had the matter gone throuih the
hands of the two .Grand Masters in the first place there would have been
no trouble. This is only one of the many cases I have been called upon
to adjust.
"Some of our Lodges have conferred degrees for Lodges in other
jurisdictions without the knowledge of either Grand Master. This is
not only wrong but dangerous.
"I recommend that all business ·o f our Lodges -with foreign jurisdictions be sent first of all to the Grand Master for approval and action,
when necessary. This will save time and sometimes complicatil>ns and
trouble. It also observes the courtesies due in such cases and conforms
to customs practiced in most Grand Lodges.','
And in accordance with his recommendation there was at this Communication of the Grand Lodge an amendment to the Constitution
offered which will lay over for one year and come up for adoption at
the Annual Communication of 1912.

Upon the stlbject of "Masonry and Religi<m" the Grand Master
comments as foUows :
"We often hear Masons say, 'Masonry is" good enough religion. for
me ' or 'I want no better church than the Ma~onic Lodge.'
' "Those who are constantly expressing. themselves in this way are
doing an unconscious injury to Masonry. Such expressions embitter
good people who do not understand what Masonry really is. Every
person has a right to his own religious convictions and opinions. Each

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
I

t 11ponsible

43

to the Supreme Power for his soul and to the people for

hi actions. Each is judged by his own acts and character. "Masonry
111111 1 · men of every country, sect and opinion and conciliates true friend-

hip nmong those who might otherwise have remained at a perpetual
1ll 11ance."
"Masonry interferes with no man's religion or beliefs. He is left
111lrely free from creeds or sectarian restrictions. He must believe in
I hi existence of God and proclaim his trust in Him. Each Mason not
011ly Is free in the exercise of his own religious rights and opinions, but
111 I~ strictly enjoined not to interfere with the religious views of
11llll'rY.
"If a man thinks that Masonry is good enough religion for him
1Ulll lives a life in harmony with its professions, he need not go about
(ttoi lniming it. In doing so he gives a bad impression of himself and
I 1l11llics the true attitude of Masonry. Some with a good opinion of the
\ tll'lent Craft will be unfavorably influenced and deeline to knock at
llltt doors for admission. I shall be glad to have brethren admonished
not to say or do that which will bring Masonrv in conflict with religion
i&11tl the church.
"This subject is presented from observing the effect upon outsiders
" lum over-ardent Masons are too zealous in our cause. Not being affill&tril with any church nor claiming to be specially religious, my suggest hill~ cannot be construed as resulting from over zeal for the church
uul its cause. I merely have looked upon the effect and have made
1hl1 recommendation for the best interest of Masonry.''
1

And that his sentiments met the approval of the Grand Lodge may
hi judged from the following extract from the report of the Committee
1111 (;rand Master's Address, which report was adopted by the Grand
lmJge:
"We consider that the part of the report dealing with Masonry and
t rliicion is a timely topic.
As the Grand Master well says, 'Masonry
•hould seek to unite men of every co\intry, sect and opinion.' and not
lo promote enmity and discord. Contention as to the superior mel'its
of two worthy institutions cao. only be harmful to both. The contrnlion of the worthy craftsman and the zealous churchman shottld be
thnt noble 'em11latioit of who be.st ca,n work and best agree.' 'The
1 ommittee can but e~phasize the re\:Olll!llendations of the M.". w:,
numd Master and express the hope that his S~ilf'Stiona may reoeiv,. tile
11reful consideratiQll of the memben of ouf ffaterniiy, which is their

clue."

Brother William M. Andrews, Dep\lty Grand Master 0£ the Grarid
l.ixlge of Virginia, was introduced and accorded Grand Honors.
He urged the approval by the Gra11d Lodge of Illinois of the ~ofge
Wnshington Memorial Asst;>CiatioQ project.

w:.

The R:.
Grand Orator, R.ev. W. W. Wilson. delivered the
annual oration and the orator was, b:y vote of the Grand Lodtre, accorded
the thanks of that body for his learned, eloquent and instructive oration, and he was requested to furnish manuscript of the same, tkat the
orntion might appear in the printed Proceedings.

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC&

Preceding the installation of M.'. W .'. Brother D. D. Darrah, as
Grand Master, Brother Ashley, the retiring Grand Master, spoke as
follows:
"Brethren: I would not inflict upon you the reading of a portion
of the installation ceremony, but many years ago I had the honor of
the acquaintance of the father of him whom we will install this
morning as your Grand Master, M. ·. w.·. Brother Alexander T. Darrah.
I first met him at the first School of Instruction that I ever attended in
1875, and there were but few schools held in the State during his lifetime that I did not attend, and meet him, and I came to know and
love him. As the Grand Master of this Grand Lodge he commissioned
me three times as a Grand Lecturer and commissioned me as Grand
Examiner the first time I was appointed to that most honorable position. I am, therefore, going to ask you to bear with me while I install
at least; the Grand Master, Brother D. D. Darrah. I want to do this
in memory of his father .. "
The Grand Master-elect said:
"The M.'. W .'. Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge of
Illinois : I hardly know what to say to you at this time. I am deeply
sensible of the great honor that you have conferred upon me in electing me as your Grand Master. I once heard Brother Owen Scott say
that he would rather be Grand Master of Masons than to be Governor
of the State of Illinois. I have never been Governor of the State.
When a man like Brother Owen Scott says that it places a very high
standard upon the office of M.'. W.'. Grand 'Master. I realize, brethren,
that I am standing to-day where twenty-six years ago my father stood, ··
and there comes to me at this moment a feeling which almost prohibits
my speaking to you. I have taken an obligation, brethren, to administer
the affairs of this Grand Lodge according to its by-laws, its landmarks
and its regulations; I pledge you to do my very best to discharge that
trust. I have but one ambition in filling this office, and that is to be
of some small service to the great institution of Freemasonry, arid if I
shall have accomplished that I shall retire from the office amply satisfied."
M.'. w:. Owen Scott spoke as follows:
"M.'. W.'. Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge: I
have asked the privilege of the M.'. W.'. Grand Master to say just a
word to you at this time. The installation of Brother Darrah, G~and
Master, is an occasion of peculiarly a sacred memory to .m~. It brings
to me sacred memories. Perhap! no one was more intimate, more
closely associated with the affairs of the administration of Past Grand
Master Alexander T. Darrah than myself. At his request I made this
boy a Master Mason ; I raised him, and I am glad to be here to-day;
and that a number of years afterwards to take him by the han,d, because
I ' led him into the Masonic ranks as a Mason-to take htm by the
· ·
hand as Grand Master of Masons in Illinois."
Brother Owen Scott submitted the Report on Correspondence,
which contains a review of California, 1910.
.He refers in the following complimentary terms to the oration of
Brother Charles A. Adams.:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

45

"The Grand Orator, Charles A. Adams, got out of the beaten track

of history, theory and philosophy and took for his theme 'Masonry in
19111lness and Politics.'

His oration was so well received that the

l)rand Lodge ordered that 10,000 copies in pamphlet form be printed for

1l11tribution. It was a fine address and well worth careful reading. A
brief extract or two will show its sterling worth.''
He makes two liberal quotations from Brother Adams' effort.
Brother Scott's introduction is worthy of general perusal, and we
quote the same in full, as follows :
"A survey of the field of Masonry as shown in the Proceedings of
the various Grand Lodges discloses little that is sensational or startling.
The Craft in the many Grand Jurisdictions throughout the world are
pursuing the even tenor of their way. Differences are diminishing and
MHonic law and usage are becoming more uniform.
"There is ever present the evidence of healthy and national growth
In membership and influence. Owing to the existence of spurious
uul fraudulent bodies, assuming to be Mas.o!1ic, there is a stea~y in11 C'llSC in the number of Grand Lodges requmng documentary evidence
In addition to 'strict trial and due examination.' The written evidence
11quired is that the visitor be in good standing in his Lodge and that
the Grand Secretary.certify that his Lodge is regular. This wide growth
In the requirement for written proof will necessitate some form of
1eceipt for dues bearing the Grand Secretary's certificate of regularity.
ISrethren who would visit outside of their own Grand Lodge should fortlly themselves for this new requirement. A mere receipt for dues
'" not sufficient. The additional proof that the Lodge is not clandestine
but regular is more and more demanded.
WM . J, HUGHAN.

"An event of world-wide Masonic significance and sorrow was the
death of William J. Hughan, the distinguished English author and historian. He passed away May 20, 1911, at the age of seventy years, and
wns buried with Masonic honors. He was a Past Senior Gram:! Deacon
of the Grand Lodge of England. On account of the system in vogue
among our English brethren, a man, as an ordinary craftsman, can
1carcely reach the position of Grand Master. This is reserved for the
royal family. When Albert Edward, Prin~e of Wales, ascended the
British throne, it became necessary to find his successor as Grand Master. The new Prince of Wales, the present King George, not being a
Mason could not succeed his father as Grand Master of Masons. In
, onseq~ence, Arthur, King Edward's brother, the Duke of Connaught,
was made the head of English Masonry. He does not actually officiate
except on rare occasions. He chooses a pro Grand Master and a deputy. These are active in the affairs of the Grand Lodg~ of Englan?.
They are, like the Grand Master, royal personages. Plain workers in
the quarries, like Hughan, no matter how great by natur~I endowm~nt
or by acquisition through labor, cannot be called to the highest service
of the Craft. Gladly would .they be summoned by the workers, but
rank and station make their advancement impossible. Though Hughan
wrought in a somewhat different field from that of Robbins, yet they
were in the same distinguished class of Masonic writers and thinkers •
Masonry can ill affot'd to lose these giants.

411

IU: PORT ON CORRESPONDEXCll

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

47

BIG LODGES.

"It will not always do to concl~d th t b

· ·
i·
t~lng is large t~at
pre~s1ve spectacles of the majestic power f th • itt ek, except as .1m-

nece.~arily it is good. Great mountalns ~re~~~

0
fertile valley between may almost es
. . eir m_a er. The httle
bosom a rich harvest to sustain the lifec~~e noticed bet it bears upon its
challenge attention by their magnitude of r::ian
h~as\ ~arge Lodges
!O suggest that they are useless for they ar!~a~~bl1p. f t is not pdoper
ts, however, likely that the sa~e number of brethr~~ bgrekat goo ·. It
two or more smaller bodies w Id
• ro en up mto
and meet his social and frater~~I n~~dse;:.~:;e;J;c:te /;dilidual brother
olvber 500 mMembers there must be a vast number tha~~ca· rcenlya odge of
e ows as asons.
ever press

bn

&

taking shape a~d there are many
who ":~i~k~heq~J:~~ t!~~hthf~~~t
1
come into closer fraternal touch with :~ ~ on ftheh1r. roll are able to
are the larger bodies.
e ives 0 t e1r members than
"It may be of interest to know h
f
.
located and the magnitude of their ;; .e t! s~!11e o the big ones are
reports, the five largest Lodges in the Ueh d rSs tp. According to latest
"Palestine, Detroit Mich 1 602 . n e · t~tes are. as follows:
Gennessee Falls Roch~ster N y i' ~~d~n Cit~. Chicago, Ill., 1,438;
1,27~; Ziory, Det;oit, Mich., i,2s9. ., ,
, oman ia, Rochester, N. Y.,
It will be seen that Rochester w 'th
J •
two of the big ones. Detroit with '465100Qa .fop\at1ln of 218,000, has
also the fifth. Chicago has m~re than oOO ~s t e a~gest Lodge and
ond Lodge in numerical order Th ' • . popu 1ation and the secother J..odges in the big Illinois .cit erd .:re, hywever, more t~an 100
pare favorably with others in prapirtl~n
Pti~~larl!~P,ersh1p will comDelmar D. Darrah, Bloomington, elected Grand Master
Isaac Cutter, Camp Point, re-elected Grand Secretary..

3

i

:os

INDIAN A, 1912.

. . The M.". W. ·. Grand Lodge of the Ancient qnd Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of lndi
d
in ninety-first annual meeting, in the Grand Lodge Hall o:~~ c~ven~
Temple, in the city of Indianapolis at 10 o'clock a m T e d asonh1c
28th day of May A D 1912 A L'
· ·• ues ay, t e
M
.
fif , . .
, . . 5912, being the fourth Tuesday in
ay, ?mety- . th year of the Grand Lodge.
D1spensat1ons were granted to form seven new Lod
There
·
·
ges.
was a net increase m membership in 1911 of 2 669
k.
:;~l~~tal membership of the Grand Jurisdiction on Jandary' ~al~~f

~ornedr-s.tones of six public buildings were laid under Masonic
auspices. uring the year.
That the idea of an annual general conference of representatives
from t?e sev~ral Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, in a form
somet:m~ ~km to a General Grand Lodge, has taken root in Indiana
may e JU ged from the following, taken from the Grand M t ,'
address:
,
as er s

"Brethren, I am satisfied that uniformity of the laws, rituals and

Ii' lures -0f the several Grand Jurisdictions of the United States is a

hl1111' very much to be desired. There is no authority higher than each
ndlvidual Grand Lodge. It is a sovereign body and its authority is su1
111rme. But if uniformity is to be attained, it must be by concerted
1111011. This can be brought about to a greater or lesser extent through

II" medium of conferences of representatives of the sevoral Grand

I,o<lges. This would 'in no sense be a General Grand Lodge. No Lodge
.,. nuld be opened. It would be a meeting of representatives under
11roper safeguards owing to the nature of the business. Each representalfv• should come to the meeting prepared to present any matter which
111 his judgment needed changing. As each matter was ptesented, it
1>11ld be discussed and voted upon, and the recommendation of the
• onfcrence as such be presented by the representatives to their several
C i11md Lodges. Each Grarid Lodge would then take official action for
II u:lf ;ind every Grand LodR"e that voted favorably on the recommenda111111 would be bringing uniformity one step nearer.
"As the initial step in this movement, I would like to see this Grand
I 1dge invite all other Grand Lodges in the United States to appoint
• I flcial representatives to attend the first annual Grand Conference of
I· 1111d A. M. to be held in Indianapolis at a time to be decided upon if
1hi11 suggestion meets with your approval. In that event it would also
he necessary for this Grand Lqdge to select a representative."
This recommendation was approved by the Grand Lodge and the
Master-elect was authorized to convene a General Grand Confc•rence in Indianapolis, under such c<,;mditions and at such times as he
mlll'ht deem desirable.
The Grand Secretary submits a comprehensive report of the work
of his department, and the marked ability with which he carries on the
duties of his office justifies the repeated action of the Grand Lodge durlnll' the past eleven years in re-electing him each year to the office of
Orand Secretary. ·
The membership of the Grand Jurisdiction when he assumed the
1ffice of Grand Secretary was, he reports, 33,604 and the present membership, being 60,128, shows a net increase during· his incumbency as
Grand Secretary of 26,564.
The matter of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home is the
most pressing concern of the· Grand Lodge, and the regular committee
having this subject in charge reports substantial progress in ·the collection of funds, and the time is rapidly approaching when actual work
nf construction will, no doubt, begin.
Contributions from Lodges received in the past year aggregate
more than $27,000 and what is of greater importance is that a large
hequest, amounting to more than $150,000, seems to be within the grasp
of the Grand Lodge through one of the subordinate Lodges, to-wit :
l'lnrk Lodge No. 40, which Lodge received this bequest from one of its
deceased members with the proviso that the bequest be used for the
'l\lpport and education of orpJoians of the Freemasons of the State of
Indiana.
Cirand

0

48

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC~.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

A. ·resol~tion was adopted that the proposition of Clarke Lodge
tendering this bequest to the Grand Lodge, together with all matters
pertaining to the establishment of a site for the location of a Masonic
Home, be referred to the Trustees of the Grand Lodge, etc., and the
following resolution upon the subject of the Masonic Home received
the unanimous approval of the Grand Lodge, from all of which circumstances it would appear that the early realization of the project of a
Masonic Home in Indiana is assured.
We note in the Proceedings that w:. Brother Edward H. Wolfe
presented credentials as the authorized Grand Representative of the
Grand Lodge of California to the Grand Lodge of Indiana and he was
accordingly recognized and enrolled as such Grand Repr:sentative.
The matter of the endorsement of the proposed memorial to Washington, the Mason, at Alexandria, Va., received the consideration of a
special committee, whose recommendation,. which was approved by the
Grand Lodge, was to the effect that no action be taken at this time
by the Grand Lodge incurring any financial or other obligations until
more complete information is at hand as to the possible or probable
ultimate expense, etc.
The Order of the Eastern Star presented to the Grand Lodge a
request to be permitted to participate officially in the creation and
control of the proposed Masonic Home, and while the Grand Lodge
expressed its willingness to receive all possible aid from outside sources
in the establishment of a Home, yet it proposed that the Home should
be und~r the absolute charge, control and management of the M.". W:.
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Indiana and therefore
declined the request made on behalf of the Grand Ch;pter 'of Easter~
Star to divide the control with that organization.
Our opinion upon the subject has not been invited, but if there is
anything connected with Masonry that the female adjunct of the order
may properly participate in it is in the administration, control and sup~
port of Masonic Homes, and we think, therefore, that the Grand Juris~
diction of Indiana should have been more than eager to welcome the
offer of the Eastern Star to assist in the creation and carrying forward
of the Masonic Home project.
The annual review of the Proceedings of Masonic Grand Lodges
was prepared, as had been the case for a number of years past, by ·
Past Grand Master Daniel McDonald, and in this review California
1911, is considered.
'
The reviewer makes the mistake of recording Alonzo J. Monroe as ·
Grand Master.
Dana A Weller was Grand Master in the Communication of 1911
and Brother Monroe at that time was serving as Deputy Grand Master,
Brother McDonald refers favorably to our system of Masonic
relief, and in the measures adopted by the various Boards of Relief in

California to aid in obtaining employment for sojourning Masons in
need of assistance. Brother McDonald was prevented on account of
phy1ical disability from attending the 1~12 Communicatio.n of hi.s Grand
J-cidge, but the hope is entertained by his brethren that his physical co?dlt!on will be much improved in the coming year, and that he will
appear in his wonted place in the Grand Lodge during the Communicallon of 1913.
M.". w:. Elmer F . Gay, Indianapolis, Grand Master.
R." . w:. Calvin W. Prather, Indianapolis, Grand Secretary.

.

IOWA, 1912.
The sixty-ninth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Iowa
was held at Burlington, June 11 and 13, 1912, M.". w:. Louis Block,
Grand Master, presiding.
From the Grand Master's address we quote as follows:
" /1rethren of the Grand Lodge of I owa.:

"Marching down the highway .o! the ag~s, proceeded by a herald
proclaiming truth. to be . a divine . attribute and the foundation of every virtue, their ~oad lighted far .before them by
the gleaming torches of the hbe!al arts af!d sciences, the_re has
long been moving a mighty procession of mystic brethr.en bearing onward the altar of the brotherhood of man. From !111 ch!11es a,nd c'!untries the great and good have gathered to trayel with th.is shrine, singing songs of praise in many tongues and offering up the incense of pure
nnd contrite hearts to the great God and Father of them all.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Uniting men of all nations upon the com~o~ level of loyalty to
great principles, it has ever been an arfl'!Y of. builders and never of
destroyers. Devastation has never desp01led 1ts way, but peace and
prosperity have forever marked its progress.
.
"As a constructive force, fastening firm. and deep the fouf!dations
of noble human life and making for the lasting peace and happiness of
the people, Masonry stands to-day wit?out an equal. Wherever she has
gone abiding blessings have followed in her foot~teps. Never has there
been' so positive and perennial a power for good in the world. Well has
she been named 'the benefactor of mankind, born. in t~e very cradle of
the race.' Righteous cause never appealed to her in vain.
"I know how you love .this order ,of Ancient, :free and Accept~d
Masons. Ancient because its foundations .were . l~1d so far back ?n
the dim ages of the past that the date of its ongin ?as been lost in
obscurity. Free as tending so to ref!der all who go in search of the
light it sheds upon the darkness of ignorance. Accepted of men because the great and good of ever_y age and ~and have been. promoters of
our mystic art-accepted of the Great Architect ?f the U.n1,verse becau~e
He has suffered it to outlive governments, nations, rehglOf!S and ph!losophies, permitting its light to shine unto this day as brightly as it
shone at the beginning."

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The following are quoted from the "decisions" rendered by the
Grand Master during the year· and embodied in his report:
"AYOUC'hment-Lawful Information: Construing Section 239 of the
Code, I have held lhat it was not lawful for a brother to vouch for
another as a Mason whose knowledge of his being a Mason is derived
solely from his having sat with him in an open Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons, and is not derived from having sat in open lodge with him or
fro~, h,i~ havi~g examined him by authority of t.he Master of a Lodge.
C1hzensh1p: I have held that our Masonic law did not require
that a candidate for the degrees of Masonry should be a citizen of the
United States, provided he could comply with our statutory requirements as to the necessary time of residence within the territory of the
Lodge to which he applied.
"Unmasonic Conduct : I have held that the M'ason who holds criminal intercourse ~th the daughter of a Master Mason violates his obligation, whether the daughter be herself chaste or not, and -is subject to
trial and punislnnent as for the commission of a Masonic offense."
Iowa is one of the very few important States of the ' Union that
has not adopted the Masonic Home idea-although the Order of the
Eastern Star has a Home at Boone, la.-but the method employed by
the Grand Lodge of Iowa for the care of its 'aged and indigent members that cannot be proverly taken care of by the subordinate Lodges is
more in the nature of a system of pensioRs or annuities, a form of
Masonic charity approved by certain foreign Grand Jurisdictions, not-ably England, Scotland and some of the Australian Grand Lodges, and
the system seems to yield a large measure of satisfaction to the Grand
Lodge of Iowa, although it is not designated in that jurisdiction as an
annuity system. But concerning the administration of the Charity
Fund the Grand Master has this to say :
"The more experience I have with our Iowa idea of administering Masonic charity, the more satisfied I become with our present system. The Trustees of our Grand Lodge Charity Fund have certainly
done most excellent and effective work during the past year. Under
their most intelligent management and smoothly working organization,
our Grand Lodge has educated children, found employment for widows
and orphans, kept up the interest payments on mortgaged homes, paid
for business college scholarships, supplied food, clothing and school
books; has taken care of the sick in homes and hospitals, and has
administered substantial relief in a very effective way, without any
publicity whatever. It has done great work in helping the unfortunates
to help themselves, and has administered aid to them without causing
them to lose that personal pride and self-respect which are the strength ·
and SUPJ?Ort of every true man and woman. Our deeds of charity have.
been QUJetly done to those dependent upon us without tearing them
away from their old home ties and the circle of their life-long friends.
I have not heard of one single instance in which the Trustees were not .
quick to respond effectively and intelligently to the cry for relief
coming from a worthy sufferer.
"If there is one department of our Iowa Masonry that gives pro~
found satisfaction, it is that of our Masonic charity. We have great
reason to be proud of the work done by the Trustees of this fund, and

we owe them a great debt of gratitude_ for the splendid manner in
which each one of them has performed his. duty.
.
.
"Our present law limits the amount which can be contributed m any
one year to the relief of any one case to the sum of $200. I would recommend that this limit be increased to the sum of $300. From my
experience with this Board of Trustees., I have no ·fear whatever that
they will ever, in any case, waste or misapply our funds to u!lworthy
cases or will in the least degree abuse the trust we confide m them.
They' have a splendid system, which is effecth:e to the. min?test. detail,
and they keep in close and constant touch with the s1tuat1on m each
case.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"There is just one little finishing touch w~icry I bel.ie~e can be ad?ed
to perfect the system now in ,u~e. And that 1s 1!1 0~1ttmg t~e publication of the names of the recipients of our charity m the printed Proceedings of our Grand Lodge. I wo~ld recon:imend that these names
appear, for the purpose of reference, 1,n the. written record of our Pro7
ceedings kept in the Grand Secretary s office, but t~at blanks be substituted for these names, and that t~e cases be .earned under numbers
in our published Proceedings. In this way we will absolutely keep from
the eyes of the world the names of those who have been forced to call
upon us for help. And I believe that they will be grateful to us for our
thoughtfulness in so doing."
.
The Grand Master manifested a degree of activity in placing of
comer-stones of public buildings; in the dedication of Masonic halls
and tempi~; in official visitations, etc. He is a believer in the doctrine
that it is the inner and not the outer qualifications which recommend a
man to be made a Mason, for he can see no reasonable objection to
receiving as a candidate a man with an artificial leg or a foot, on which
subject he makes the following comment:
"I believe that Section 285 of our Code should be so amended as
to allow the Grand Master to issue a dispensation pennitting of the
initiation of a candidate having an artificial leg or foot in such cases
as may meet with his entire a.pproval.
"Such an amendment would ena~le th~ Gran~ Master to ma~e
proper inquiry as to whether the candidate m question wer~ otherwise
sound and healthy, well able to support and take care of himself, .and
otherwise qualified to become a member of the order. ~nd h7 might
go a step further and require that in such cases the cand1date m qu~s­
tion should sign a statement that he w?uld never .acc~pt ~1:1bstant1al
relief from the order for any cause growmg out ?f his d1~ab1ht)!" ,,
"I recommend the subject to you for your serious ctms1deratton.
He also is a thorough believer· in Masons looking beneath the
surface to find the real meaning of mystic words an<l symbols.
"It is one thing," he remarks, "to be able to comment and recite
a ritual and quite another to know that the ritual has a meaning, ~nd to
know what that meaning is.
"Masonry has no use for a blind, stupid devotion, vouchsafed her
by wooden men, but what she loves is the intelligent loyalty of thinking
men, who have a reason for the faith that is in them."

i2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

One of the important functions performed during the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was the unveiling of a Tablet upon
the site of the location of the first Lodge of Masons in Iowa Territory.
At the ceremony short addresses were delivered by Hon. William
Hutchinson, Past Senior Grand Warden, Alton; F. S. Treat, Des
Moines; P. J. Martin, Past Grand Master, Waterloo; Guy Filette, Cherokee, and Amor H. Sargent, Cedar Rapids, after which the benediction
was pronounced by Grand Chaplain.
A special committee,' to whom was referred the Grand Master's address, lauded the Grand Master for his devotion to the interests
of Masonry, and for the extremely capable manner in which he had
administered the affairs of his office during his incumbency, and particularly endorsed many of the recommendations of the Grand Master,
among which we may mention the following:
"We also give approval to that part of the Grand Master's address
under the head of 'New Lodges,' and concur with what he has to say
therein, that the interest of the Craft ·would. be better promoted by
using greater care and less haste in granting new charters, and we
refer the same to the Committee. on Masonic Jurisprudence, with the
.request that they take some action."
.
·

* * * * * * * * * * * *
"Your Grand Master, in his address, refers touchingly to the Acacia

Fraternity, and recommends that a suitable resolution of sympathy
and good will be adopted by this Grand Lodge, and in hearty accord
with this sentiment your committee reports the following resolution
and recommends that it be passed and adopted, with the approval of
this report:
.
.
"Whereas, A society denominated the Acacia Fraternity, composed
of Master Masons who are students or members of the faculty in the
universities and colleges of the United States, has been established: and
"Whereas, Two chapters of said fraternit1 have been established
in Iowa, one in the Iowa State College, at Ames, and one in the University of Iowa, at Iowa City, both of which have received the cordial
endorsement of certain permanent members of this Grand Lodge,
who have accepted honorary membership therein; and
"Whereas, The Acacia Fraternity is founded for the purpose of
aiding and encouraging its members in the acquirement of greater
knowledge
and usefulness, especially along Masonic lines; therefore,
be
it
"Resolved, By the Grand Lodge of Iowa, A. F. and A. M., that we
are in hearty accord with the aims and purposes of the Acacia Fraternity, and that we extend to these, our student members of Masonry,
our cordial sympathy and good will in their earnest search for further
light."
From the report of the Committee on Credentials we learn that
there was a large representation present at the Annual Communication
of the subordinate Lodges, and elsewhere in the statistical information
we learn a substantial increase in membership is going forward, the net
increase in the preceding year amounting to 1,598, with total members

53

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
1111

January 1 o f 45,997• a total that is . exceeded slightly by the total

uwmbership odf CCahlifolr~ia.Brother Jos. J. Newton, delivered a learned
ap am,
·
d
The Gran
th "Mission of Masonry," which was hstene to, so we
dd
& rcss upon
e rapt attention by t he Gran d L od.ge. At the conclu,. Informed, with
1 1 I 1 of Brother Newton's eloquent effort, a resolution was
';
to

adopte~

t h ~ ~ffect that t~e tlearpned0 ;~~s r~~~~:~~df~;a;~~l~shh~~~ i~e t~:qi;:~~ee~~
15

1

:~,~~. a:;t~:~s~: ira ~~Jes be published in pamphlet form to supply subordinate Lodges, etc.
A special report of the Committee on "Recognitio~ of Gra~d
Bodies" presented a thoughtful report on t?is ~ubject, rhtch ~~~t!r~
approval of the Grand Lodge, and as the subiect is one o genera I
,.,, we quote the report in full, as follows:
.
.
.
f
h
·
G
d
Lodge
in
1911
a
special
" At the Communication
t is ran·
bmitted a report oncomthe
mittee, appointed by 9;and Mast~r cg:~~dsuBodies and therein, in a
auliject of the rel_ogd1t1on of u~J::r;lng principles that should goverd
1encral way, .out e th so~~ognition of a foreign Grand Body shoudl
when a quest10n o
e 'd d the uestion as involving two fun aarlsc, and the. ~eport confl _:r\at is !~gaily essential to recognition a!ld
mental propositions? name Y d~
t' ar and we may now summarize
what could be considered as 1scre 10'!.s
the conclusions 1of tpa~ h~porr~~o~~l~ion ·of a foreign Gran? B~dy only,
"That to a eg.a. rig of
anizatio~ in that it took its rise from
some' reputed higher source of authere must be leg1t1macJ' o ofg
•ub~rdinate
LodgesG,
and nOot.
rienrtomr
o Supreme Council, and we quote as
thonty,
as from
a ran
follows from that report:
.
of Symbolic Masonic law that Symd workings is a law unto its~lf,.
" 'We may ~ta~e as an !lXl~m
bolic M'.lsonry, m its };ghmzat1ofir:i~n fraternal' source for authority,
in that it look~ to no ig 1. er. or reative ower within itself of all needMnnction, pr gu1danc\~ut
t~e ~ubor<liifate Lodge is the primal .s!lurce
ful agencies, and to t is jn
e f om which can spring a leg1t1mate
of authority and the on Y sou~~e r f Grand Lodge depends, in the
es that gave it birth, and, of
Grand Lodge, and hence..t~e leg1Umtl~:
?!1 thethereto,
leg1tm'!acy
o~ meet
first ins~ance,
course
m addition
1t mus
, theglimitations and requirements

°

If

r·

d

Lad

t~:t o::P~;t

of the 'ai;icient land! m'.lrks ff
that subordinate Lodges should
"It 1s a cone us1~n o
. d' . ti to the Mother Grand Lodge
trace their lineage,. d1rectlyG or
L~d~i''of the World, and sucli. is the
of England,
the .parenGtranrdanLodges ' as well as many others m forof all as
American
status

d

eign lands. ·
.
than those pertaining to legitimacy, the.
0 th
"As to qu~stions,
er .
the domain of discretion, so that a
report deals w1thhthem as. dwi~n~ a question of recognition, may be
Grand Lodge, . w en cons1 er a ainst as the good of Masonry may
guided ~y its Judgment for or
with' these recommendations:
· ·
require,. a_nd tThh r~i?r\hoi;i~ld:~ent and conclusion of this Grand Lodge
'F1rst-Lodge
at Iauitsh on\ '~ <
and legitimacy is derived from the consent
that "Grand,
and action. of. subordinate Lodges.
· .
• ·

h.

l

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
"'Second-That the legitimacy of a subordinate Lo<lge depends
upon its being able to trace its lineage from the parent Grand Lodge of
England or the British Isles.'
"The i:eport was adopted, and th11s became the judgment of the
Grand l.odge. It may be well to state here that the committee in its
pres~ntation, and the Grand Lo<ige in it's a?oJ!tion of the report, had
m .view, not so much a purpose to comllllt itself to an unalterable
policy or method of procedure, as to express its judgment from such
i~form~tion as was available, and open the way to a frank and free
d1scuss1on ~o th~ end that the Masonic world might come to a better
understanding, tf not to a settled policy of action, on so important
a concern to the welfare of the Craft.
"The report has been noticed by some fifteen of the Reports on
Fraternal Correspondence, and very liberal quotations have been
made from it, and, !LS· to the recommendations above quoted, the
approval has been qmte general. In i<tct, we notice but two instances
in which there is open criticism of them.
"It is to be borne in mind that these Reports on Fraternal Correspondei;ic~ are not Gran.d L'!dge expression's, but are simply the views
and opm1ons of the writer m each case, and hence their value is dependent upon the merits of each correspondent.
.
"Not~ithstanding this limitation, these reports are of great value
m Masomc research, and are a fair reflection of Masonic thought and
history by the official interchange of opinions throughout the Masonic
world.
"It bec'!mes the duty o~ your Committee on Recognition of Foreign
Grand Bodies to take notice of and report the facts and conditions
that should lead you to adhere to or recede from the position you have
t~ken as to Grand Lodge recognition, and to which you invite discussion.
"The writer on Coirrespondence in Florida quotes our recommenda-.
tions as above set out and says : 'This commits the Grand Lodge cf··
Iowa to the doctrine of descent from the Grand Lodge of England or
the British Isles.' He then comments to this effect: That such a doctrine is not reconcilable with the custom of Lodges in Scotland and on
~he. Continent, which issued warrants and erected Lodges without authority of any Grand Lodge, and that is the full extent of the criticism
"We assume the writer to mean no more than that at one time
and as a rule before the existence of Grand Lodges subo;dinate Lodge~
were so instituted, and that is undoubtedly true. As a matter of fact
the existence of subordinate Lodges, as we now term them, was abso~
lutely necessary before Grand Loages could exist, fur it is our contention that a Grand Lodge takes its existence from the action of subordin~te L~ges! as ?s the case wit~ the mother Grand Lodge of England m taking its nse and authority from the united action of four .
subordinate Lodges.
"Tha.t there may ~ave been irr~gularities1 and even illegalities, in
the creat10n .of subordinate Lodges m early history, or later, in no important particular affects the question we consider for it is now the
genefa1, settled policy and law of the Masonic wo;ld that subordinate
Lodge creation is subject to Grand Lodge authOrity, and this Grand
Lodge authority has come from the action of subordinate Lodges in the
exerds~ of th.eir creative po~er- to ins.titu~e Grand Lodires as their
11ovemmg bodies. The prOf>Osttion, we consuler, is this : liave Grand
Orients or Supreme Councils, or any ottier of what are known as the
higher bodies of Masonry, any governmental or creative authority in

REPO~T

ON CORRESPONDENCE.

55

' 1 mholic Masonry, and, if so, what is it, and from whence was it de" ' eel? That question goes directly to the issue of legitimate LOdge
••l'fllnization, both subordinate and Grand."
"The correspondent for the Jurisdiction of Louisiana makes the
• 1lllci~m that we do not specify to what degree the members of the gov1nlnr body must have attained. We answer that it makes no difference,
lh~t legitimacy of Lodge organization depends on the same facts, whether
1 Jurisdiction makes the first or the third degree the dominant one in
1h1 transaction of its business. In either case it is a Lodge, and we
nll'll<lcr the question of what is a legitimate Lodge so as to be entitled
111 1ccognition as such.
"Thus far we have only considered the criticisms with reference
I• the recommendations as to what is a legal Lodge. Some criticisms
Ii '' " been made as to that p!lrt of the report dealing with discretion11
authority ·in so far as it justifies the recognition of jurisdictions
1h11t clo not have on their altars the Christian Bible, as we do, but
I' 1mit the use of the Sacred Book of a country, as the Koran or the
\ • J11~, in its stead, because such a book is to them what the Bible is
t • ""· in so far as it seems to bind the conscience and insure fidelity
1•1 Masonic vows. No religious .test is essential to Masonic fidelity,
but every religion that is moral, and makes for the . betterment of
1111111, is a welcome aid in Masonic life and practice. With us it is the
I h1·1Htian religion; with some it may be another form of religion,
111° I. as to that, we make no further inquiry than, Is it in harmony with
.i11r teachings of faith in God and the brotherhood of man? Any
I• llaion that invades the domain of such a teaching is inimical to
I 1-onic thought and practice and a bar to Masonic allegiance. If in
hurmony with such a teaching, we give it welcome and share its benefits.
"But, as we said in the rep<>rt of last year, the Christian memberhl11 of the order is in conflict of opinion on this subject, and we
llllA)' not hope to e11tirely. reconcile it, nor is it highly important that
11 1 1hould, as there is no such difference as to engender prejudice,
lltlll the rule of this Grand Lodge is that, in such cases, the entire
11t1111tion is to be considered and recognition be granted or refused .
1 •I~ good of Masonry may require.
"As to the Grand Jurisdictions of this country, there is no ground
for apprehension in this respect, for they are in harmony as to the
ltlhl1• as one of the great lights in Masonry. Such contentions will
1mly arise in cases where recognttion ts sought by or with foreign
I 1r&111d Jurisdictions, and,. in such cases, care shoukl be taken to know
1111 reasons why there is any important departure from the generally
11101nized requirements as to Lodge furnishings, as of the presence
of the Bible or other important features of Lodge equipment, and,
lt\lH11 satisfactory reasons are shown for any such a departure, it
woultl be sound policy to refuse recogni~ion. Your committee still
thinks that, as to such matters, no arbitrary or unyielding rule should
''~" but simply one of the exercise of a sound discretion.
"A magazine known as the Bulletin of the International Bureau ·
11( Masonic Affairs. published in Switzerland, manifests a very
1 redltable zeal and enterprise in the direction of harmonizing the
dllfi:rences of opinion that separate the jurf$dictions of this country
from many of those of Europe, and we discover that IUl.lCh of the
dltflculty rests in a disregard by them of the sources from which
•11runa: Grand Bodies. The magazine quotes from an All!erican wrltef
of note, who has stated the same rule of legitimacy for Grand Bodies
thut we approved last year, namely, that they must sprmg from

56

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Symbolic sources, and adds that upwards of fifty Grand Lodges
in the United States are opposed to the recognition of certain jurisdictions in Europe for specified reasons, and among them are some
taking their authority from Grand Orients or Supreme Councils. It
makes particular reference to the Grand Lodges of Denmark, Sweden,
and Norway, saying they cannot be recognized because they have a
political as well as Masonic character, the King being the head of
the order, and in Norway the Grand Lodge is instituted by royal
decree. This is something of a fair exemplification of the situation,
and of course presents a difficult problem for solution if we may
hope for such an adjustment as will lead to fraternal intercourse.
"American Masonic sentiment will give the same fraternal recog·
nition to the king that it gives to the peasant, and nothing more. It
may esteem the king for his kingly virtues, but it will not accept his
royalty as entitling him to Masonic preference or authority.
"As Masons, we take pride in the poetic thought that" 'We meet upon the level, though from every station come,
The rich man from his palace, and the poor man from his home ;
For the one must leave his diadem outside the Masonic door,
And the other finds his true respect upon the checkered floor.'"
The Report on Correspondence is by Brother C. C. Clark, of Burlington, in which report California, 1911, is considered.
He objects to the Uniform Code of By-Laws, such as is prescribed
by many Grand Lodges, including our own, and thinks that liberty
should be allowed to subordinate Lodges in the matter of adopting their
own By-Laws, and otherwise conceding to them local self-government.
We believe, however, that the Uniform Code is the better system.
He disagrees also with the California method of Masonic Home
charity and prefers the Iowa system, to which we have previously re- .
fer red.
As a money saver it must' be admitted that the Masonic Home J>YStem is not a pronounced success, but as an aid to character building,•
both for the recipients of Masonic aid and for those who contribute, it
possesses. elements of strength not embodied in the annuity or pension
system, or pure d~nation arrangement, and inasmuch as Masonry has
little, if anything, to do with successful finance, we may be excused
if we prefer the Masonic Home system as exemplified in Californ1a, to
the purely monetary administration. of charity as exemplified in certain
other American and foreign jurisdictions.
In his conclusion, or "Epilogue," as he prefers to call it, Brother
Clark has certain excellent remarks to make touching the question of
the attendance of Lodges at church, which we quote as follows:
"The question of attendance of Lodges as such at church has stirred
up some discussion. Personally we think it better to go as individuals. There is no use in unduly tempting human· nature. It is a
mighty uncertain quantity. Some one has slightly changed a well
kriown quotation so as to read : 'Man that is born of woman is of
.~~w . days and full of th~ ~eviJ.! While we preach . the doctrine of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

57

lnlt•ration we sometimes do. not practice its admirable precepts, and

!hr te~dency of .most .of l!S 1s to stan.d stoutly by our own particular
nlulfy.

Thus d1ssens1on 1s apt to arise and the history of such disYet though holding firmly and cert alnly to this opm1on, we thmk that on the whole there is not ground
fur f,rt'nt alarm; we hl!:ve a p~ofo1;1nd fait? in 01;1r b~ethr~n..
The t.rue Mason ts nothing tf not hberal m his rehg1ous beliefs
uul w.e fail to _apprehend th~t he will suffer any serious harm fro~
11tt1ndmg a Ch~ts~tan ~hurch tf he be a Jew, or a synagogue if he be
•If the Calvamst1c faith, or both of them if he be a follower of
~l'ahomey. 'fhe fear o! religious contamination or of a Lodge fuss on
•H'COl!nt of differences m do_gma. ought to be at a minimum among us,
1/111 1~ a brother would fam k1.ck u.p a rumpus because he, being a
l hrl•ttan, .was ~xpected to go. with his Lodge to hear a rabbi expound
tlu I lehra1c. faith and creed, tt would demonstrate pretty conclusively .
It · UR that ~Is Lodge made a serious mistake in believing him of large
1•11e111gh caliber for membership in the Masonic fraternity. He ought
111 have been relegated firmly and decisively to the society of those
1111111 bores whose conceptions of God and humanity and the duty of
tht l:itter to the forme~ are bounded by the narrow dogmas of by~ 1111r ngcs, some of which unfortunately still persist in this year of
1 inr~ 1912.
An apostle who wl!:s some authority and who is still a
" ulchng sta.r f~r many of us said: 'Prove all things and hold fast
111 that wh1c~ is g?<?d,' and b~eadth of. view, a wide toleration, and
Ill all-pervasive. spmt of charity are mighty desirable things in any
111 lety, and particularly among Masons."
W illiam Hutchinson, Alton, elected Grand Master,
Newton R. Parvin, Cedar Rapids, re-elected Grand Secretary.
11 11~lons ha.s no! ?een pleas:i-nt.

KANSAS, 1912.
The Fifty-sixth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
l1rrc and Accepted Masons of Kansas was held in the city of Topeka,
l\ llts., on February 21 and 22, 1912-M.'. W .'. Alexander A,. Sharp,
lirnn<l Master, presiding.
The Grand Master reports growth and prosperity throughout the
h1ris<liction, the returns showing a net gain in membership in 1909,
hrlnging the total membership of the jurisdiction up to 37,305.
Dispensations for seven. new Lodges were granted in the year, and
four corner-stones were laid under Masonic auspices, and dedication
1-.1remonies were conducted for three new Lodges.
The Grand Master reports having attended the second meeting of
thr Washington Memorial Association at Alexandria, Va.
The purposes of the Association are highly commended by the
llrand Master, but inasmuch as the time prescribed for the annual
tneetings of the Memorial Association coincides with the date of the
meeting of the Grand Lodge of Kansas, it is impracticable for Kansas
11° become a permanent member of the Memorial Association and the
( •1ran d Master recommends that no steps be taken at this time' to conlhme the membership of Kansas in the Association.
22

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Master reports a goodly number of visits to subordinate
Lodges during the year and refers especially to the visit on March 17,
1911, to Siloam Lodge No. 225, upon which occasion he, as Grand Master, conferred .the third degree of Masonry upon his son.

"Fifth-The Grand Master shall be received between parallel lines
of hreth~en extending directly from the entrance to the East (the altii'r
11111 wlthm the lines) when the private grand honors shall be rendered
Whcm associate officers accompany the Grand Master, they shall imme~
1tl1Uely precede him through the lines."

58

Several decisions on Masonic law were rendered in the year, two
of which we quote as follows:
"The lectures of the several degrees, being a part thereof, must be
given during the communicatio~ at which the brother is o~lig!lted. If
two or more candidates are obligated at the same communication, they
can receive the lecture and charge together. The second section of
the second degree is the only portion of the 'work' which can be conferred upon more than one candidate at the same time.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*. *

*

*

"A Lodge can receive the petition of a citizen of another. country
who has been a· resident of this State for one year and who ts at the
time, and has been for six months next preceding, an actual resident
within its territorial jurisdiction."
The Grand Master is emphatic in his views against the suspension
of members of subordinate Lodges by reason of non-payment of dues,
unless all of the necessary preliminary steps have been complied with,
as prescribed by law, and he reports a case of discipline of a Master
for an attempted suspension for non-payment of dues of a certain member of hi~ Lodge where the suspension was not made in strict accordance with the law.
The Grand Master, in response to a request for information, set
forth in detail how visiting brethren of various ranks should be received,
and inasmuch as the various methods in which this ceremony should be
performed met the approval of the Jurisprudence Committee, the
adopted report upon this subject is given in full, as follows:
"In accordance with the suggestions of the Grand 'Master, and
recognizing the need of specific instructions relative to th~ manner o~
receiving visiting Masons of various ranks, your committee recommends the adoption of the following rules of action :
"First-A visiting Master Mason shall be introduced by the Senior
Deacon at the altar, the Lodge then called up and a welcome extended.
"Second-A visiting Master, Past Master or appointive Grand
Officer shall be introduced by the Senior Deacon at the altar. On the
entrance of such visitor, the Lodge shall be called up and remain standing until a welcome s~all have been ?uly extend~d.
. .
"Third-An elective Grand Officer, a specially comm1s51oned representative of the Grand Master, or a District Deputy Grand Master
when visiting a Lodge within his district, s~all be introduced by ~he
Senior Deacon at the altar between parallel Imes of brethren extendmg
from the East to the West on the north and south of the altar, and
thence conducted to the East.
"Fourth-A Past Grand Master shall be introduced by the Senior
Deacon at the altar between parallel lines of brethren, extending from
the East to the West on the north and south of the altar, thence conducted to the East when the private grand honors shall be rendered.

59

The Kansas Masonic Home is reported as in a flourishing contllt Ion. The membership at the Home for the year 1911 was 80, about
411111lly divided, so the Grand Master states, between adults and
1hlldren.
In accordance with a report from the Committee on Correspond' "''• request for recognition by the Grand Lodge of Free and Ac1 rptcd Masons of the State of New Leon, the United Grand Lodge of
I , ,.,. and Accepted Masons of the Federal District, Orient of Mexico
~ nd the Grand Lodge Cosmos of Chihuahua, were denied.
Recognition was reaffirmed to the York Grand Lodge of Free
11111 Accepted Grand Masons of Mexico, the successor of the former
Cirnnd Lodge Valle de Mexico.
Pending further information as to their character and regularity,
I • quests for recognition of the following Grand Bodies were deferred:
Grand Orient of Brazil, Grand Orient of Belgium, Grand Orient
" I Paraguay, Grand Orient of Italy, Grand Orient of Greece, Grand
l,ndge of Sweden, Grand Lodge of Norway, Grand Lodge of Denmnrk, Grand Lodge of Guatemala, Grand Lodge Swiss Alpine.
The request for recognition was granted to the Grand Lodge of
I 'hlli, as the Grand Lodge was apparently regularly constituted and
' cmformed to the Usages and Landmarks.
The annual oration was delivered by Brother Alston W. Dana,
Incl it was ordered by the Grand Lodge to be printed with the Pro' • edings, with extra copies for distribution among the Lodges, etc.
The oration bears evidence of research and thought, as may be
lndgcd from the following excerpts from Brother Dana's effort.
~lpcaking of Masonry, he says :
"None have been so great or powerful as to ignore its beneficent
loachings, while its Lodges have been harbors of refuge for the weak
•nd unfortunate of all ages. Among the great lights of Masonry are
found the names of Frederick the Great of Prussia; Francis I, Emperor
.,f Germany and Austria; Oscar of Sweden; Christian of Denmark;
Jl,rncst of Hanover; George IV of England; that King who reigned in
our day, now remembered as 'The Peacemaker,' Edward VII of Eng11111<1; Napoleon and Lafayette of France; and in our own country the
Immortal Washington, the anniversary of whose birth we celebrate
le • day. While the names of John Huss, the Bohemian reformer and
rnnrtyr, who had the honor of handing on from Wickliffe to Luther
the torch which kindled the Reformation; and those of Lessing,
IJerder, Fechte, Goethe and Schiller, among the Germans; Sir Christopher Wren, the builder of St. Pauls ; Sir Christopher Gresham, the
n1crchant prince who founded the Royal Exchange; John Locke, whose
1111mument is that great essay on the 'human understanding'; Sir Isaac

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Newton; Bishop Horsely of Rochester, who in the British Parliam'ent
boldly defended the fraternity of which he was a member; of Nelson
and Wellington, Collingwood and Napier, among the English {l use
the word English in its broadest sense, includin~ the Scotch) ; and in our
own country, more than fifty of those who signed the Declaration of
Independence, many of our Presidents,. and most of the heroes of our
revolutionary period, are all counted among the jewels of the order. I ·
·have called the roll of a few of our illustrious dead simply to remind
you that the great and good of the generations that have gone before
have worn the Mason's badge, learned the Mason's sign, and labored as
skilled craftsmen in our Lodges.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"The history of modern Masonry is traceable to England and Holland; it is there that we read of the first initiations into the order in .
modern times, and it is from England and Holland that our modern
world has learned all its great lessons of civil and religious liberty.
From them came bright beams of light, reaching across the Atlantic,
by which the earliest American settlers were guided in laying the foundations of the free government which is ours, and in whose effulgence we
have seen that nation grow, until it 'reaches from ocean to ocean, from
frost to continual sunshine, and which offers a haven and resting place
to men of every race and every blood who believe in liberty and who
seek it'; and which has served as a pattern for every real republican.
form of government established in the world since that time. And it
has often been asserted that the leaders of that early period found in
Masonic principles and practices much that they incorporated into· the
basic laws of the republic.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

"Without <letracting from the marvelous achievements of some of
our men of fabulous wealth, or from the credit due them for the part
they have taken in our country's rapid development, yet I submit that the
better thinking portion of the people of our land still hold manhood more
valuable than property and higher than position; and that the names we
really love and revere, and ought to, are those of Wen dell Phillips,
William Lloyd ·Garrison, Henry Ward Beecher, Ulysses S. Grant, Abraham Lincoln and hundreds of others who were rich without money.
Emerson says: 'I revere the person who is rich, so that I cannot
think of him as alone, or poor, or unhappy.' And again from the same ·
author : 'The truest test of civilization is not the census, nor the size
of our cities, nor the crops, but the kind of men the country turns
out.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

•••

"What is brotherly love? • The best definition of which I know is
'That with brotherly love this earth is heaven; without 1t, it is hell.' An
old itinerant preacher, one morning upon the hills of Scotland, saw
something approaching through the dense fog which looked like a
monster. Upon coming nearer he disco:vered it was a man; and upon
approaching still nearer he beheld his brother. Most of our troubles
with our fellows arise from not knowing them. It is not so much
that we hate that man as it is that we do not know him. Most of our
differences with others would vanish if we could but get better acquainted. Distance may in certain instances 'lend enchantment,' but it
too frequently in human relations, magnifies, obscures and distorts."

61

l'he Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master Mathew
MIller, it being his tenth annual report.
.
1L contains a review of California, 1911, in which he says :
" rhe portrait of M.". w:. Dana Reid Weller, which appears in the
f 111t11plcce, has that remarkable family trait or expression of geniality
1111 •"1od nature for which his ancestors, the Wellers have been dish•Mltlnhed always. There is a striking resemblance td Samuel of that
II ~· delineated Cruickshank and portrayed by Dickens.
"Th~re are two beautiful eulogies that were presented at the memot 1111 11rv1ces held for Past Grand Masters Wiley James Tinnin (1885)
I dmt~nd Clement Atkinson (1887) and V.". W.". George Johnson, th~
I I•· <1rnnd Secretary. The character of Edmund Clement Atkinson as
1lrl''' •· I by M.". w:. Edward H. Hart, appeals to us as one of 'the
• 1, 1 possible. It is with genuine regret that we feel compelled to for11 1 • Kcerpting from the sterling record before us.
"Brother Hart concludes his fine tribute with those beautiful stanzas
I 1 1.itltia Barbauld, to life, of which Ralph Waldo Emerson once said:
1
'1 •• hnving written which we might almost envy her. To have written
th h II poem would make anyone's life worth while to the world.'"
11 iR "conclusion" is as follows:
"All quiet on the Potomac-of the guild-is the message which
11 1• • 11. us from every part of the Masonic world. Those who belong to
11•1 prnce contingent think they see the glimmering of the dawn of the
11 v 10 long foretold.
"At no time in the history of the Craft in the past half century has
1111 I • been such a manifest desire for agreement and unity as exists to~\ nmong those who make and mould the Masonic opinion of the

mid.

"Even those whom the Creator made of lighter clay than other of
lhr Ir brethren are allowing reason to exert its gentle influence, and ere
mw doubtless will conclude, as 'the earth is the Lord's and the full111 • thereof,' it will be wise to submit to the Lord's way of peopling
1111 running his own dominion.
"Scotland concedes to a Grand Lodge recognized by her, but whose
J11il1dlctional territory she still impairs under claim of right, that a
111 f1111ct Lodge of the Scotland Constitution cannot have the breath of
1111 readministered to it by a removal of its warrant to another point
In the territory now occupied by such Grand Lodge. The fairness of
lhr· 1 oncession is praiseworthy.
"Masonry still enjoys the right to sing 'Nearer, My God, to Thee,'
11111 the right to use the prayer formulated and taught by the Master
a proper expression of reverence for and praise and gratitude to
I )ur Father who art in Heaven.'
"We have found no more fascinating side line study of Masonry
th 111 that contained in the records of the Masons who formulated the
1111.111 nnd performed the pioneer work which made the union of the
ilonlcs possible and the war of the American Revolution a success.
"A like study of Wasltington's attendance and work as Master or
I 1llr>r In military ·Lodges, together with his confidence, reliance and
l11J11tndence upon the generals, governors, committees of safety and
•lhrr leaders, who were Masons,. during the Revolutionary struggle, will

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

demonstrate the intense interest, activity and energy displayed by
'Washington the Mason' for Masonry, an interest retained by him to the
end of his life."
·
·
·
· ·
M.'. w:. William Hutchinson, Garden City, elected Grand Master.
R.' · W: · Albert Wilson, Topeka, re-elected Grand Secretary.
KENTUCKY, 1911.
The Grand Lodge of Kentucky, Free and Accepted M;isons, held its
One Hundred and Eleventh Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Louisville, commencing Tuesday, October 17, 1911, and was
opened in Ample Form on the third degree at 10 o'clock a. m.-M.'.
w:. Robert R. Burnam, Grand Master.
.
·T he Grand Master reports having granted nine dispensations to
form new Lodges.
He visited in the year Alexandria, Va., to attend the meeting of
the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association. He is in
hearty sympat)1y with the project and pledged so far as possible the
·support of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky to the same.
Concerning this movement, he has this to say :
"For this whole movement I am in sympathy, and I pledged the
support of the Grand Lodi;re of Kentucky to the same. If the members
of this Grand Lodge could only have been there and have seen the
distinguished Americans who belong _to us, you would have been proud
indeed. Beginning with President Taft, came Senators, Congressmen:
judges and a host of distinguished private citizens from many States.
"For the purpose of pushing this work, I pledged $100 for this
Grand Body. I hope you will become a permanent member of .this
assoeiation.
"Hon. Thomas J. Shryock, who has been the Grand Master of
Maryland for more than a quarter of a century, was elected preside11t
of the association. This alone is a guarantee that all funds will be faithfully handled."
·
He speaks of numerous requests which have come to him to grant
permission to Lodges to initiate candidates who have serious phy$icai
imperfections. He states that he uniformly refused all such requests,
because of the belief entertained by him that a Mason should be physically qualified as well as spiritually. The following are his vi~ws as
.
he expresses them upon this subject:
"I recognize the great Masonic truth that it is the internal and
not the external qualifications which are so essential in Masonic character, but the internal are not all by any means.
"Regulations No. 343 says : 'A Lodge is the sole judge of its
petitioners' qualification.' This is true, but within certain bounds. An
irrelig-ious libertine, a madman or a fool are certainly not proper
subjects for initiation, but under said regulation the Lodge can elect
them. It seems to me that the Grand Lodge should rule that no petition. can be received from any candidate unable to comply with the
physical requirements, such as taking the steps on· the Master's carpet,

63

r.

ving perfectly the grips and signs. This has been· my own interpre1tlon and I believe it is that of the vast majority of our members.
Sometimes a Lodge becomes too anxious for new members.''

One of the incidents that occurred in the year that occasioned a
1reat deal of correspondence back and forth was the controversy with
ltennsylvania over the question of penal jurisdiction, Pennsylvania
111erting its right to .perpetual penal jurisdiction, and Kentucky making
the stand for territorial jurisdiction, claiming this right for itself and
' unceding' the same right to other Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Lodge of Kentucky in its regulations has declared :
"The doctrine of 'perpetual jurisdiction' over a rejected profane is
not held in Kentucky, which has always maintained the doctrme of territorial jurisdiction, and accorded to other Grand Lodges what it re1erves to itself-the right to pass upon the fitness of all candidates who
have been bona fide residents of the State for the requisite time. The
Grand Lodge has never claimed power to act outside of its own jurisdiction, nor will it allow its own action to be controlled by any other
body of Masons.''
Grand Master Burnam maintained in his correspondence with the
nrand Master of Pennsylvania that the doctrine of perpetual jurisdiction, Masonically speaking, was no more defensible than the doctrine
of perpetual jurisdiction over acquired citizenship by nations, and that
n foreign born resident of America who had foresworn his allegiance to
the mother country was just as effectually beyond the jurisdiction of
the mother country, and a citizen of our country, as a so-called "profnne" who had moved from one State into another and had acquired
citizenship in the latter State was beyond the jurisdiction of the State
In which he formerly resided.
Grand Master Burnam, in our opinion, had the best of the argument, and the principle involved is precisely the one involved in the
present controversy between the jurisdiction of Arkansas and that of
California, in which California has initiated a candidate over whom it
had acquired territorial jurisdiction, although the candidate was one
that had previously been rejected by Arkansas, and ov'er whom ArkanHS still claimed penal jurisdiction.
The Masonic Homes of Kentucky are reported to be in splendid
condition, and these charitable works are being carried forward by this
Jurisdiction in a most efficient and capable manner.
That the Grand Jurisdiction of Kentucky is scarcely in favor ~f the
recent movement in favor of documentary evidence may be judged from
the following preamble and resolution, which, upon vote of the Grand
r,odge, was turned down :
"Whereas, At · the present time there are a large number of imposters and clandestine Masons 'traveling through the State, and many.
of these men are well versed in ritualistic work and often stand credit11hle examinations, but many times cannot produce proper vouchers of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

their standing in their Lodge, and many times there are worthy brethren
who visit Lodges without such credentials, and in order that there may
be a thorough understanding in regard to whom will be furnished examining c;ommittee by Grand Lodge; be it
"Resolved, That no one claiming to be a Mason will be given an
examining committee unless he can produce receipt for his last year's
dues under the seal of··his Lodge, if under the jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of Kentucky, and when from another jurisdiction he shall be required to produce credentials from the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction
under which the same is holden, showing that he is in good standing at
the time he visits. Provided that no one who can be vouched for by
any brother present will be required to furnish the above-mentioned
credentials.
"Your committee, to whom was referred the foregoing resolution,
rellorts same without expression of opinion."

"Of course, the perpetual jurisdiction doctrine is, like the poor,
always with us, but it has passed the acrimonious stage, and when it
obtrudes itself into the sphere of controversy, as it occasionally does, is
being discussed dispassionately, as it should be.
"There is another question which, as to its rationals, is closely
111ied to it : The right to Masonic recognition of a brother who has
been regularly made a Mason by a Lodge of a jurisdiction other than
that in which he has a legal residence. The objection in these cases
founds itself on the alleged fact that the Lodge so making him a Mason
violated the jurisdiction of the Lodge within whose territory the candidate on whom it conferred the degrees had his domicile and of the
Grand Lodge within whose territorial jurisdiction was located the Lodge
.if his domicile.
"As a matter of law, a Masonic Lodge has, and, in the very nature
·if things can have, no jurisdiction over one who is not a Mason. It is
•oqually illogical to allege of one not a Mason that he is the material of a
1111rticular Lodge because he may happen to reside within a certain distnnce of the location of that Lodge, or for any reason. A Lodge
1cquires jurisdiction over the person of a non-Mason only by his voluntary act in filing with it a petition praying for initiation. Just as a
mmmons legally issued and served on a defendant gives to the civil
ourt jurisdiction to try and determine the issues involved in that particular case does the filing of the petition of the candidate give a Lodge
Jurisdiction over the person of the candidate, and jurisdiction to make
him a Mason. A Grand Lodge has no authority to say to one not a
Mason that he shall not be made a Mason except by a certain Lodge. It
hus jurisdiction over the Lodges of the territory embraced in its limits
11nd it may, indeed should, prescribe the conditions on which they may
make Masons ; and thus it 1s only indirectly, and through the authority
lnwfully exercises over the Lodges of its obedience, and the inhibitions
which it lays on them, that it can exercise authority over non-Masons
whose habitat may be within its jurisdiction's boundaries. It has,
1herefore, no authority to prescribe rules for the conduct of those not
Masons, or in any manner to limit or restrict them; it can only exercise
11uthority over its Lodges. This right to make laws for the government
of its subordinates, and to prescribe the conditions under which they
may make Masons, is common to all Grand Lodges and is incidental to
1overeignty.
"These premises being admitted-and we thirik that no one who
1ives them a candid thought will deny them-it necessarily follows that
any one not a Mason has been made a Mason in conformity to the law
of the Grand Lodge in whose jurisdiction is located the Lodge that
made him a Mason, he has been legally and regularly so made, and as
11 regular made Mason he is entitled to Masonic recognition by all
Masons in all Masonic Lodges, even by a Lodge which once may have
rejected him, and certainly by the Lodge and the members of the Lodge
within whose territorial boundary he may have his actual domicile
though his initiation was by another Lodge in another Grand Jurisdiction. We are forced by the. relentless laws of inexorable logic to this
·
conclusion.
"It is true, of course, that every member of a Lodge has the ri~ht,
Indeed the right is inalienable, to object to the presence of any visitor
at any meeting of his Lodge at which he may be present. This ancient
right we are not questioning. We are only contending that the legally
performed acts of every regular Masonic Lodge be recognized by every

The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master William
W. Clark, in which there is a review of California, 1910, and under
the caption of California in his report Brother Clark, in speaking of
the resolution, which was not concurred in, to the effect that a certain
decision should be corrected by adding after the word "God" the words
"Holy Bible," making the sentence read, "of religion we only- desire
to know that each one · asking admission is a sincere believer in God,
the Holy Bible, and the future existence"
He remarks:
"And yet, if we are to be.consistent, why not? We know the Universality of Masonry doctrine? We are acquainted with the doctrine as
decreed by M<ickay. But at the same time we know also that the Grand
Lodge which authorizes the Bible removed from the altars of the Lodges
finds itself promptly cut off by other Grand Lodges. The action of the
Grand Lodge of Peru is of comparatively recent date. Masonic students
know the result, and remember with what alacrity that Grand Lodges
reconsidered its ill-advised action. More than that, Masons are taught,
not that the book which by a people is accepted as the revelation of God,
but that the Holy Bible, square and compasses are the great lights of.
Masonry. Why, then, should not candidates be required to be believers
in the Holy Bible as the revealed will of God? As a matter of fact,
Masonry founds itself on the declarations of the Old Testament, and its
doctrines are · the doctrines of the Bible, and he who disbelieves them
cannot consistently be made a Mason."
We quote his "conclusion" in full, as follows :
"The foregoing report comprises reviews ~f the Proceedings of
nearly all the Grand Lodges with which the Grand Lodge of Kentucky
is in fraternal correspondence. The Proceedings of a few Grand Lodges
failed to reach us before sending our report to press.
"Not many questions of Masonic jurisdiction are now disturbing
the serenity of the guild, to the regret, possibly, of some of its members. It is a very monotonous task to chronicle the routine transactions
of Grand Lodges-they are so much alike.

65

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CO~RESPONDENCE.

other Lodge and by all Grand Lodges. If it be not done; Masonry
ceases to be a universal. brotherhood, and is reduced: to a system of
petty societies, each bounded by its own jurisdictional lines. We are
making a plea for an order composed of Masons wherever dispersed.
round· the globe, and all members of one and the same order."
Dave Jackson, Louisville, elected Grand Master.
H. B. Grant, Louisville, re-elected Grand Secretary.

Concerning the growth of the fraternity within the jurisdiction,
the Grand Master has this to say:
"The past year has seen a normal growth of the fraternity in this
Jurisdiction. I record, with pleasure, a marked improvement in the
1 haracter of our membership.
In general, our brethren are awakening
tn the realization that if we desire our influence to be felt for. good
thrre must be discrimination in the selection of our material. Numbrn contribute but little to the power of the institution, and are an
unwieldy force if ignorant and virtueless. I cannot insist too strongly
upon the requisites for membership. Qualities of mind and heart are
parnmount. Moral character and intellectual worth are essentials in the
mnking of the real, earnest, active Mason whose life must be an example and an inducement. It cannot be gainsaid that the perpetuity
of Masonry will be secure only when Masons shall have become alive
In the knowledge of the truth that we are held together for high purposes and that these can be attained mainly by securing the moral, men1111 and material riches surrounding us in our fellow men."

LOUISIANA, 1912.
The One Hundredth Annual Grand Communication of the M:. w:.
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Louisiana
convened in the city of New· Orleans, at the Scottish Rite Cathedral,
on Monday morning, the 5th day of February, at 10 o'clock, John &.
Thibaut, Grand Master, presiding.
The Grand Master opens his annual address, as follows :
"It is with feelings of the deepest emotion that I welcome you to
this, the Centennial Communication of the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of
Louisiana. Unite with me, my brethren, in giving praise to Him
who, having blessed the feeble beginnings of Louisiana Masonry, sustained it with His powerful might and for His own purpose through
all its trials and vicissitudes and has fostered and prospered it. To-day
it stands before the world among the most enlightened, the most liberal
and the most active of Masonic bodies in America."
"Twin-born of our beloved State, it also has written history-a
history which brings no shameful blush to our cheeks, but,rather the
ftush of pride for the character, virtues and deeds of those who have
written it. And yet, my friends, proud as we may be of our Masonic
lineage, it is not with the memories of the past that we are to dwell.
'Its once busy existence, various sensations, fiery trials, dear-bought
triumphs, its dynasty of heroes, all of its pulses of joy and anguish, and
hope and fear, and love and praise, are with the years beyond recall.
The sleeping and the dead are but pictures. Yet, gazing on these,
long and intently, and often, we may pass into the likeness of the departed and may emulate their labors and partake of their immortality.' '
"The history of the world is a record of the rising and disappearance, like bubbles on the water, and the sweeping from the earth like
the morning dew before the noonday sun of hundreds of civilizations.
It also records the unchanging, eternal teachings of Masonry through
all the mutations of time. It witnesses its incessant efforts towards the
improvement of the sbcial order, the intellectual development of man,
the warming of men's hearts to their fellow men, and what is more
essentially its own-the inspiration of the universal world to the great
principles of human solidarity and fraternity.
. "May the dawn of this new century, radiant with its possibilities, so
inspire us with Masonry's sentiments and ideals, that we may live in the
remembrance of succeeding generations, for our gracious deeds and
our unfailing devotion to its cause-the teaching of its sublime lessons
of harmony and of love."
Five Lodges which received charters at the preceding Annual Communication were all duly constituted within the Yl!ar, and dispensations.
were issued in that time to form five new Lodges.

6i

The Masonic Home idea meets no approval in the Jurisdiction of
1,ouisiana, the Grand Master in particular being strongly opposed .to
this method of administering Masonic relief and charity to its aged and
Infirm members and to its orphans.
We quote his utterances upon this subject in extensio because he
evidently represents the extreme view in opposition to the Home idea,
and we are constrained to the belief that his radical position in oppo1ition to the idea of the Masonic Home does not result from practical
knowledge, but rather from theory, not founded upon comprehensive
Investigation, and his classing Masonic Homes with the ordinary
Infirmary or institution of that character is hardly justifiable, and he
will find upon wider investigation that many of the Masonic Homes
throughout America have a genuine atmosphere of warmth and home,
and may not justly be characterized as "chilly institutional" affairs, and
we believe the Masonic Home not only affords comfort and shelter to a
vast number of aged and indigent Masons that would otherwise have
no homes at all, and, therefore, performs a service of inestimable value,
hut that it also promotes in those jurisdictions where the Home is a
feature charity and kindness and consideration and thoughtfulness
among the Craft generally, thereby becoming an invaluable adjunct to
character building, which is the real purpose of Masonry.
The Masonic Home has never been recommended as a money saver,
hut, as we have frequently remarked, Masonry is not primarily a financial institution, designed to assemble or hoard wealth, but it is an
organization intended for the uplift and benefit of mankind, in which
the monetary element, in this age of commercialism, happily plays only
n secondary part, and, therefore, if the Masonic Home feature of
Masonic work helps to broaden Masonic sympathy and charity it is
n good thing, and, even if it costs more than some other means of dispensing Masonic charity, it nevertheless is entitled to approval.

68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

It is worthy of note, also, that the criticism and condemnation of
Masonic Homes comes invariably from the few jurisdictions in America that have no Homes, and do not come from the 90 per cent of the
American jurisdictions in which the Home is a feature of Masonic
charity.
The following is from the Grand Master's address on the subject
of the Home:
"I plead guilty to having received no direct information of the
result of the work performed by the Committee on Widows and
Orphans' Home, but I have ascertained that up to the last week in
December the sum of about $500 only had been turned over to the
Grand Secretary as the contribution obtained by solicitation from the
constituent Lodges in aid of this project. The committee, if that is all
they show, has met with no great encouragement, ~n~ the result seems
to indicate in a material way that the plan of bmlding a Home does
not meet with the approval of the majority of the Craft in this Grand
Jurisdiction.
"I cannot but commend the disinclination of Louisiana Masons
to inflict upon the distressed of our Masonic family the horror and
humiliation of an asylum. Those magnificent monuments of marble
and stone hide behind their walls the sepulchral coldness of organized
charity a disguise of the true charity, which means love and not sufferanc~. Behind them is the wail of Dante's damned : '0 voi che intrate,
lasciate, ogni speranza'-'0 you who enter leave behind you al~ hop~'­
of Love. It is well therefore, that our brethren should have surnaltzed
in an unanswerable' manner their opposition to a plan which will inflict
upon our wards the debasement, the humiliation, of a prison home,
where the surroundings are and will be a constant reminder of the
fact-the mortifying fact-of abject pauperism, associated "'.ith th,e manifest indifference of those friends from whom more lovmg kindness
might have been expected.
"The legislation of this Grand Lodge anent the Home has been
one of compromise. Why? Those who have preceded us are better
able to say. It is time we should decide in categorical manner ho~
Louisiana shall dispense its love-fund in the future.
"No one who has studied the modern methods of public beneficence
can for one moment consider the orphanage or home system as the
ideal one. The consensus of opinion is so deci~edly against. it .that at
the present day one may not find a single prominent human!tanan advocating it. The orphanage or home is at best only a make~h1ft-I need
only ask you to cast your eyes around and look at the internal con-'
ditions of the great eleemosynary institutions of this and other cities.
These will appall you, my friends, whose fatherless children may one
day become the wards of an institution of similar character, for the
word 'Ma-sonic' will create only a distinction and not a difference. I
quote the words of Super?ntendent Agnew of, the Society. for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. He says: God never intended that
children should be raised behind a sixteen-foot wall. • • • I believe the place for a child is in the home and not in an institution.
In an institution there is no good-night kiss, and there is no tucking the
little ones in bed. • • • '
.
.
"I might leave to others the formulating; 9f m~ opinion upon this
subject, but I desire at the close of my adm1ni~tra.t1C!n to place ,n;tY~elf
on record as being unalterably opposed to the infliction of hum1hat1on

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

69

to. our widows and orphans. (wish to be on record as being uneq_u1vocally opposed to the erection of a Home, whatever may be its
character.
"Were the truth told, the majority of Masonic Homes would be
closed, for they are a burden wherever established. The cost of maintenance is out of proportion to the results, ranging anywhere between
$70 per capita in one Grand Jurisdiction to $1,200 in Montana. In the
latter jurisdiction the Grand Lodge has built a Home at a cost of some
$83,~. _ Thi~ H~m~ contains eight inmates, and the per capita cost
of .their keeping 1s in excess of $1,200: ·T he Home Committee, says
their report, favors retrenchment I Advisedly. Would it not be preferable to have these unfortunate eight at home with their 'folks' on a pension of one-quarter the amount given to the tru_stees in their behalf?
"A similar condition prevails in other Grand Jurisdictions notably
in that of Pennsylvania, which we are informed maintains ~ million
dollar Home for relatively few beneficiaries.
"J3ut . be that as it may, my brethren, the material aspect of the
9uest1on 1s only secondary. · It matters not whether the per capita cost
1s one hundred or one thousand dollars; whether the Home costs a
hundred t.housand or a million. The foremost problem before us is the
psych?log1~al. one.
Th~ Home influen~e is d~structive. of parental
affection; 1t 1s destructive of self-assertiveness in after hfe · it is annihilative of t~at ind~~ef!dence which is the visible expressioi: of manly
character; 1t 1s hum1hating from the very nature of the charity which
It ~est,ows. A Masonic Home would bri~g ~or~ard another paramount
ob1ect1on from the very nature of our institution. A Masonic Home
cannot be sectarian-what, then, becomes of the religious training of its
inmates? Have you given a thought to this phase of the question?
Does ?1~ Jewish brother de~ir,e his .orphan chi!~ to be brought up as
a <;~nstlan ?, _Does m~ Ch:1st1an friend look with. favor upon Jewish
rehg1?us training fo~ his .child? Does not ~y Baptist! Me~hodist, Episcopalian and Catholic friend frown at the 1dea of his child forsaking
the fai~h. of his . h?me t~ become one of the 'others'? What, then, of
the rehg1ous trainmg which should be given to the young mind? This
cannot be obtained in a 'Home,' but must be impressed upon the child
in his own home.
"I desire, as a business man, to suggest to you a plan which I
believ_e ~ill insure better ?1aterial and moral resu~ts. :i'he great State
of Illmo1s has only lately inaugurated a system which bids fair to solve
the problem. It is a plan which is practical, has none of the objections
hereinbefore mentioned; it is sane, logical, humanitarian. It is more
in harmony with modern methods of orphan training and preserves
the integrity of the family, with all its psychological, moral and religious
influences. It is the pension system, which enables children to be raised
at home rather than spending the amount maintaining them in an
orphan asylum or State Home."
That the Masonic Home subject has been definitely dropped niay
be judged from the following resolutions, offered by one of the Past
Grand Masters, and which were adopted by the Grand Ipdge:
"R esolved, That .the report of the Committee on Widows and
Orphans' Home be duly received and spread on the minutes and the
committee discontinued ; be it further
"Resolved, That the sincere thanks of this Grand Lodge be extended
said committee for its zealous and earnest work, and especially for

71

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

having raised approximately six thousand dollars for Masonic relief,
which has been duly invested; be it further
"Resolved, That the resolution of M:. w:. Brother Robert R.
Reid, adopted in 1906 and now in force, be continued, and the Grand
Master be authorized to disburse $2,500 for relief each year, and in
addition thereto the interest and revenues accruing from all investments
belonging to said fund, and that the matter be so handled until the sum
of fifty thousand dollars be realized as a permanent fund, and that all
moneys standing to the credit of the various funds be consolidated into
one fund, to be called 'The Widows and Orphans' Permanent Relief
Fund.'"

111 11 y of Lodges of the Scottish Rite. Among many other things that
h v1• nothing to do with the status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands
I lhl! declaration that Louisiana needs a-stronger defender of Masonry
th1111 the chairman of your Committee on Foreign Correspondence. This
1 mark this committee was moved to make because of our approval
nl whnt we know as the 'Buck Resolutions.' It is evident 'that the
I '.1llfornia brethren have never read the record made in our Proceedllllf'· of our Grand Lodge. We can only express our regret that they
htH•· not read what we have written about the Ancient and Accepted
llltr, for we take it that they are intelligent gentlemen, and that they
111 not forgetful of their Masonic obligations, and as a consequence we
111 I confident that had they taken the trouble to inform themselves about
11 they would not have spoken this evil behind our back.
"The action of the Grand Lodge was to decline to adopt the resolu1Ion~ they proposed; and to discharge them as a committee from the
r111 lher consideration of the subject.
"We are satisfied by the action of the Grand Lodge of California."

-70

M:. w:. Brother A. G. Brice, who had been chosen Orator for the
session 1911, and who had been prevented from delivering his address
by a period of serious illness, and who was again appointed to the position of Grand Orator, delivered a lengthy and elaborate address upon
the subject of "Masonry-The Great Gift to Man."
As a part of the Proceedings at this Annual Communication was
an extensive program in celebration of the lOOth anniversary of the
founding of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana. The celebration took_place
on the first day of the Annual Communication in the afternoon, the
Grand Lodge assembling at the Scottish Rite Hall at 1 :30 and proceeding therefrom to the Tulane Theater, where a large number of the
prominent members of the fraternity and their famHies were assembled
and where an extensive program was rendered.
Addresses, historical and otherwise, were delivered by the Gra.nd
Master and others eminent in the Craft, and in the evening, after the
celebration of the afternoon had been concluded, a magnificent banquet
was served at one of the leading hotels, at which there was an uninterrupted flow of eloquence and learning, and in which stirring addresses
were made by distinguished orators in English, French, Spanish and
Italian, that all members of the Craft of various nationalities in the
cosmopolitan city of New Orleans and State of Louisiana might ·be
edified.
The Report on Correspondence is, as usual, by the Rev. and R. ·.
w:. Herman Cope Duncan. A high degree of learning is manifested
in Brother Duncan's masterful diction.
California, 1910, is fraternally considered.
The oration of Brother Charles A. Adams upon the theme "Masonry
in Business and Politics" is commented upon favorably, with liberal
qll'Otations from Brother Adams' effort.
Brother Duncan's remarks concerning the report of the Committee
on the "Status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands" will be of interest, and are as follows:
"A lengthy but interesting report was made by a committee appointed to investigate the status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands.
The committee traveled far beyond the bounds of their appointment,
and much of their report is occupied with assertions against the legiti-

Brother Duncan is one of the most scholarly of the Masonic corre•111mdents, and whatever he may produce is worthy of most careful
1 ~ltrntion.

Owing, we believe, to the cosmopolitan character of the citizenship
111 l,ouisiana, this State is one of the most liberal in the Union in its
, ITnrts to extend so far as possible recognition to the various Masoni11
11uwcrs of the world.
E. H. Addington, New Orleans, elected Grand Master.
Richard Lambert, New Orleans, re-elected Grand Secretary.
. MAINE, 1912.
The M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free and Acc!!pted Masons
111 the State of Maine met in Annual Communication in Masonic Tem11h• Ashley A. Smith, Grand Master, presiding.
ln opening his annual address the Grand Master says :
"Centuries and generations come and go; the years wax and wane.
l\lrcady the past Masonic year crumbles beneath our feet and we stand
1111 the threshold of the new. We are met in the Ninety-third Annual
r .1111111unication, for various purposes,-to register some record of the
[IAKt, to consider the duties and privileges of the present, to legislate
for the future and to exercise our Masonic franchise in choosing those
Ornnd Officers for the coming year that shall have superintendence of
1hr Craft. Such are the duties that must chiefly concern us, but here,
lno, ample time is allotted in which to form new, and to strengthen old
ln1ternal bonds. Cicero, the Roman orator, whose voice of eloquence
, ·choed through the famous forum, said, in his last declining years, that
life had taught him one supremest lesson-'How to make my enemies
transient and my friendship eternal.' This, too, is good Masonic teachlllll. and while in this Grand Lodge there may be little need for the
fir~t part of Cicero's counsel,-it is a privilege of this communication
It• obey the latter, and make our friendships eternal."

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Master feelingly refers to the death in the year of two
of the Past Grand Masters of the jurisdiction, William Pitt Preble, who,
prior to his death was Senior Past Grand Master, and the other the
M.". w:. William J. Burnham.
·
Three Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held in
the year for the purpose of dedicating Masonic halls, one at Rockland,
one at Livermore Falls, and one at Milo.
An event unprecedented in the annals of Freemasonry in Maine
occurred on l'hursday, March 21, 1912, in the city of Portland, when
Portland Lodge No. 1, the oldest Lodge in the jurisdiction, celebrated
its one hundred and fiftieth anniversary.

"Though we cannot see the end of our Masonic labors, and though
tlwre are hours of dishearteoment and seeming defeat, stiU, may we trust
1111 11.Jld hope ever, in the unveilin,g of Masonic light and truth:

In speaking of this celebration, the Grand Master says:
"The brethren of Portland Lodge are to be congratulated on' this
auspicious occasion and the event which it commemorated, the institution of Portland Lodge by the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, on
.M arch 20th, one hundred and fifty years ago. Their charter, yellowed
by time, but undimmed by the passage of the years, contains, among
other honored names of early patriots and renowned craftsmen, the
name of R.". W .'. Bro. Paul Revere, as Grand Secretary, which still
glows and gleams with true Masonic light. The best wishes of this
Grand Lodge of Maine for continued peace, harmony and prosperity to
our oldest Lodge, are hereby cordially extended."
The following is the eloquent "conclusion" of the Grand Ma~ter's
address, voicing appreciation of the present, with its grand opportunities, and prophetic of the future, whose keynote shall be "brotherhood"
and "service," which constitute, in fact, the essence of Masonry:
"Our Masonic institution is soundly based on a fundamental human cause, the increasing sense of man's essential brotherhood. Operative Masonry today is concerned in building not alone temples and
places, but chiefly the manhood of the nation. Just as the great watchword of the eighteenth century was liberty, and the great work of the
nineteenth century was science, mechanical invention and organization;
so the great word and supreme work of this twentieth century will be,
brotherhood-service. It is an era of swift and mighty changes throughout the world. Age-old monarchies like Portugal disappear in a night
and unfurl the banners of a new republic to the light of dawn; Manchu
dynasties sacred for countless centuries are suddenly overthrown, and
liberated China awakens from its lethargy of centuries sleep, and a new
era of republican government is proclaimed to the amazed and wondering world. All progress is along the line of man's essential brotherhood.
In a quiet and unobtrusive way Freemasonry is working toward that
time prophesied by the poet :
"When the war-drums throb no longer, and the battle flags are furled
"In the parliament of man and the federation of the world."
that time dreamed of by the seer of sacred writ: "When nations shall
beat their swords into ploughshares and their spears into pruninghooks, neither shall they learn war any more."
"Every day strengthens this bond of essential brotherhood. The
ancient prayer, 'Thy kingdom come,' is being answered by increased
peace and good-will, by daily labor for 'God and home and native land.'

73

"'For, with aching hands, and bleeding feet,
We toil and heap, lay stone on stone,
We bear the burden and the heat
Of the long day, and wish 'twere done;
Not till the hours of light return
All we have built do we discern,' "
The Grand Secretary's · report shows a healthful condition of Maonry in the jurisdiction, with a total membership at this Communica111111 of 29,345, a net gain over the preceding year of 564, and an average
l.odae membership of 144.
In accordance with a report from the Committee on Foreign Cor11 1pondence, recognition was extended by the Grand Lodge to the Grand
1,ndge of Porto Rico, and a resolution was adopted looking to the
' 1change of representatives with that Grand Lodge.
Memorials to Past Grand Master William Jackson Burnham and
William Pitt Preble, the one presented by Brother Fessenden I. Day
,&111! the other by Brother Albro E. Chase, were adopted.
From the memorial to Brother Burnham this brief paragraph is
quoted :
"There has been no Mason living in Lewiston who was so well
~ nown as was Brother Burnham. For fifty years he has attended nearly
•tvery meeting of Ashlar Lodge, and for most of this time he has been
thl'ir Chaplain, so that every member must have felt a personal as well
" n Masonic acquaintance with him, for his voice has led them in prayer
.1 they entered into the knowledge of Masonry."
And the concluding words of the memorial by Albro E. Chase to
l'ut Grand Master Preble are as follows :
"In his ninety-two years of life did he not prove that characler, per1onality and ideals make the man?"
In the hands of the Finance Committee was continued the' subject of the Masonic Home, which project is receiving in this jurisdiction
1ome consideration.
Elmer P. Spofford of Deer Isle was elected Grand Master and
Stephen Berry of Portland re-elected Grand Secretary, and these
brethren, with the other elected and appointed Grand Officers, were
duly installed by Past Grand Master Charles L. Collamore, assisted by
l'ast Grand Master Henry R. Taylor, who acted as Grand Marshal.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented, as usual, by
Pist Grand Master Albro E. Chase.
California, 1911, is considered, with quotations from the report of
the Board of Relief of Los Angeles, and endorsement of the sentiment
contained in the report of the Grand Lecturer when he states that while
23

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
Masonry does not by any means consist in the mere perfection with
~·hich .the lectures are delivered by the Masters and officers, neverthe~
less efficiency and accuracy in the rendition of the "work" are valuable
adjuncts in producing a lasting impression upon candidates, and perfection, therefore, to that extent, is beneficial and greatly to be
cl es ired.
California certainly is exceedingly fortunate in having so conscientious and capable a Grand Lecturer as Brother Thomas J. Baker.
MANITOBA, 1912.
The Thirty-seventh Annual Communication of the M.".. w:. Grand
Lodge of Manitoba, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, was opened ifi
the Masonic Temple, at the city of Winnipeg, Province of Manitoba, on
Wednesday, June 12, A. D. 1912, A. L. 5912, Grand Master John
W emyss presiding.

In opening his address, the Grand Master says :
!'It is with great pleasure that I am able, like my immediate predecessors, to assure the brethren that peace and harmony prevail not
only throughout the entire jurisdiction, but also · in our relations · with
other jurisdictions, and have prevailed during my entire term. No
cloud as large as a man's hand mars the prospect for my successor. May
the kindly and brother!}' feeling which prevails not merely between individuals but also between Lodges in this jurisdiction, long continue.
That such will be the case I have but little doubt. Fraternal visits not
merely between the city Lodges, but between Lodges in adjacent towns,
are becoming more common, and over and· above the educational value
of such visits, they are producing excellent results in fostering a more
kindly feeling than sometimes prevails between the citizens of adjoining towns which are competitors for business, by bringing the brethren
of different Lodges into direct personal contact with one another, and
are establishing a bond of fraternity which cannot fail to have good
results."
That this jurisdiction happily is living in a state of harmony may
be judged from the fact that the Grand Master reports that during the
year he has not been called upon to render a decision upon disputed
points of law. He, therefore, has nothing in that line to report, and
that he has a proper conception of Masonry and the duties which devolve
upon men as Masons may be judged from the following remarks embodied in his address :
"We are all proud of the antiquity of our order. The fact that its
origin is lost in the mists of antiquity appeals to the human imagination
in a way that nothing else can do. No thinking Mason also can fail
to be impressed with the beauty and symbolism of our ritual. At the
same time none of us should ever lose sight of the fact that· its mere
antiquity is not any adequate reason for its continuance-that M·asonry
must, if it is going to continue to prosper, justify its existence in the
present, and also that the ritual is merely a means to an end and not

76

All ••nd in itself.

Upon us devolves this responsibility just as our prel 11111ors were responsible for the conduct of the Craft in the years that
Mrr irone, .and as our successors must assume the same responsibility
wlu n our day's work is done.
"Masonry, in order to continue to justify its existence, must serve
1111r distinctly useful purpose both to its members and to the world
ti l1arge. None of us md1vidually can accomplish very much, but the
11 111 egate result of many individual efforts is enormous. Sometimes, no
di111ht, we are oppressed by the knowledge of how small a part each of
1 11111 do, but whatever may be our sphere in l!fe, our educational
plpment or mental capacity, each of us, if he be true to himself and
tllt obligations he has taken, true · to his fellow Masons, true to the
1r1nd old Craft of which we are members, must do his share. Every
t.111011 should feel that he is personally tesponsible for the honor and
tll111ily of the Craft. The worst enemies of Masonry are not those outlldc Its pale who sneer at and decry the Craft, but its own members who
In the life and conversation do not attempt to carry out its principles. A
M11 •1011 may be letter perfect in his ritual, regular ii). his attendance at
I cOdirc, but if outside the Lodge room his conduct is actuated only by
HIA•hness, if he be unscrupulous in his business transactions, or obscene
11111 profane in his conversation, he is a stumbling stone in the way of
1 ·· 1·• many of his brethren and a very potent argument against Masonry.
"The more that Masons realize their individual respon"sibility, the
111nr·· that they appreciate the fact that Masonry is not a matter for the
l.<1dic room only, something to be laid aside with their aprons, but a
1111ttcr of everyday life, leavening and improving their speech and actions
111 nil their intercourse with their fellow men, the m.o re fully will they
fullill their duty as Masons and a little nearer will be the day of which
llurn~ wrote with prophetic vision a century ago:
"'It's comin' yet for a' that
That man to man the world o'er
Shall brithers be for a' that-'"
The report of the Committee on Grievances and Appeals is a model

nl Its kind, and what a commentary it would be upon Masonic harmony
II 1111 of the jurisdictions in America could say, as does this jurisdiction
thmugh its Committee on Grievances, that:
"Your Committee on Grievances and Appeals has much pleasure in
•tr.Orting that during the past year no complaint or grievance apper11 nlng to Masonic disciflme, nor appeals from the decision of any
dge, or Master thereo ; have been submitted for our consideration,
dicating that peace and harmony seemingly prevail throughout the
rlsdiction of this Grand Lodge."

~

The Grand Lodge is in a sound financial condition. It has a sub1t111tial membership of 5,967, which is a net gain over the preceding
yeRr of 348.
William Chambers, Hamiota, elected Grand Master.
Hames A. Ovas, Winnipeg, re-elected Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPOND£NC&
MARYLAND, 1911.
The M.". w:. Grand Lodge of A. F. and A. Masons of Maryland
assembled in Corinthian Hali Friday mor~ at 11 o'clock, for the
purpose of pa.ri.Dg the last tJibute of respect to our late R· '. w:.
Brother Willi-.m M. baac, ~rand Secretary, who died Wedneliday
morning, January 4, 1911. The Grand Officers and other members
occiipyina- t.h eir respective places, with James R. Brewer, Grand Mas·
~r.

pr.e.sidi.ni.

· :Qr~ ~aac, in whose honor this CoJnll1unication was held, was
for many years identified in an official way with the Grand Jurisdiction
of Maryland, and was greatly beloved by his brethren.

Brother James R. Brewer, R.". w:. Deputy Grand Master, who,
in the absence of the Grand Master, presided at this Special Communication and conducted the funeral services, delivered an eloquent addres11
io which he said in part:
"Personally I have known Brother I.saac for forty-six years, and
in all that period he was a wise adviser, a reliable friend and a faithful
guide and counsellor. He was one of the most lovable men I ever
knew, gentle and amiable yet firm and con~istent in all the relations of
li(e. A good Mason, an exemplary citizen, a faithful husband and
devoted father, h11 lived beloved by all, and died universally lamented
whe~, like a '1h11dow thrown softly and sweetly from a passing doud,
death fell upon him.' Sa<l is his <leparture, sweet is his memory and
ble5si:d is the spirit that to-dl)y we commend to the justice and mercy
of the Creator. ·
"No man can be made a Master Mason unless he believes in the
existence of God and the imrnortafity of the soul. These are the main
pillars of our fraternity. Upon them rests the great structure of Free
and Accepted Masonry. We believe that the soul is immortal as implicitly as we believe in our own earthly existence. Over his mortal
clay we mourn, but we feel and realize that his earthly form alone remains in that flower-crowned casket. 'He is not dead, but sleepeth.'
His iml!lortal form i5 standing now before the Great White Throne,
gazing in wide-eyed wonder at the power, the glory and the splendors
of omnipotence. With expanded vision, he now beholds and understands
the vast titank and intricate machinery that moves the universe. With
ears attuned to celestial chords, he hears with infinite joy the music
of the spheres as they swing through immensity in their distant orbitsfit melod;y for tne ear of God. Whh ecstatic delight he comprehends,
as no fimte mind could do, the power behind the great command:
" 'Let there be Light !'
When grim darkness felt His might
And tlcid away ;
When startled seas and mountains cold
Shone forth all bri11;ht in blue and gold
·
Anq cried "'Tis day, 'tis day!"
"Hail Holy Light i" e~daimed
The thund~roas cloud that fl.amed
O'er daisies white,
And lo I the rose in crimson drest
Leaned sweetly on the lily's breast
And, blushing, murmured "Light" !'

77

"He has heard the 'still, small '9'oice' say to him, 'Well done, good
11111 faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of· thy Lord.' And he has
11h 11 his place in the celestial Grand Lodge, where the Supreme Archi-

1 1 I ->f the Universe forever presides.

He will meet us there, all his
itrthly cares and pains and sufferings laid aside as a garment, and will
t , t us with heavenly joy when we come, as, sooner or later, come we

""" '·

'"For there is no death I The stars go down
To rise upon some fairer shore,
And bright heaven's jeweled crown
They shine forever mote.
There is no death! The dust we tread
Shall change beneath the summer showers
To golden grain, and mellow fruit
And rainbow-tinted flowers.
There is no death ! An angel form
Walks o'er the earth with silent tread,
He bears our best loved ones away
And then we call them-dead.
Borne to that Celestial sphere,
They leave us but· to come again,
With joy we'll welcome them the sameWithout their cares or pain.
For, ever near us, though unseen,
The dear departed spirits tread,
For all this boundless universe
Is Life !-There are no dead !' "

w:.

The M.".
Grand Lodge of A. F. and A. Masons of Maryland
' nmmenced its Two Hundred and Forty-eighth Semi-Anmtal Communication em the second Tuesday of May, at 8 o'clock p. m.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Due Form by R.". W.'. Brother
Jnmc~ R. Brewer, the Deputy Grand Master, with prayer by R.'. w:.
Orother Rev. Henry Branch, D. D., the Grand Chaplain, the following
Orand Officers and other members occupying their re~pectiv-e plttces.
At this Semi-Annual Communication the Grand Seetetary and
Orand Treasurer submitted reports, and Grand Master Shryock paid
,, deserved and eloquent tribute to the memory of Brother William M.
haac, late Grand Secretary, and who had been identified with the Grand
l,odge for a period of fifty-five years.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held on June
(I, 191?, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the Masonic
remple at Cumberland, Md., on the site of old Fort Cumberll\nd, at
which ceremony the R.". W.'. Deputy Grand Master James R. Brewer
presided. Hon. George W. Atkinson, acting as Grand Orator, deliv1•rcd an instructive and eloquent address.

78

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

It is rather strange that R. '. w:. James R. Brewer, Deputy Grand
Master, who presided at the Special Communication of the Grand
Lodge on January 6th, that was convened for the purpose of paying
the last tribute of respect to the late Grand Secretary, R.'. w:. Brother
William M. Isaac, and to whose memory he rendered homage in glowing and eloquent words, should himself in the same year, only a few
months later, be touched by the Death Angel, for we read in the Proceedings. of the Grand Lodge of Maryland that a Special Communication of that body was held at the Masonic Temple in Baltimore for the
purpose of paying honor and respect to the memory of the late beloved
Brother James Rawlings Brewer, who passed onward November 6,
1911.
This Special Communication was presided over by the M.' . w:.
Grand Master, and was participated in by a large number of the Grand
Officers, other members of the Grand Lodge and Masons generally. ·
The M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of A. F. and A. Masons of Maryland
commenced its One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Annual Communication
on the third Tuesday of November, 1911, at 8 o'clock p. m.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Due Form by the R.'. w:. Senior
Grand Warden Gustav A. Eitel, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
Grand Officers and other members occupying their respective places.
The Grand Master, in his opening address, refers feelingly to the
work of the Grim Reaper in removing such shining lights of Masonry
in the preceding year as the R.'. w:. Grand Secretary and the R.'. w:.
Deputy Grand Master, the R.'. W.'. James R. Brewer, Deputy Grand
Master, and also R.'. w:. Henry Clay. Larabee, Grand Master, and
at the conclusion of his address the M.'. w:. Grand· Master Brother
Shryock announced that, out of respect to the memory of the brethren
just mentioned, no further business of the Grand Lodge would be
transacted that ·day, but that a Lodge of Sorrow would be held, which
was accordingly done, and a number of addresses were made by eminent Masons of the jurisdiction.
On the following day the time of the Grand Lodge was occupied
with reports of various Grand Officers, and at this session the M.'. w:.
Brother Thomas J . Shryock was re-elected by acclamation Grand Master for the twenty-seventh consecutive time, his term of service as
Grand Master equalling now the length of seryice of the late King Edward VII of England, who was Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
England for twenty-seven years, occupying the exalted station of Grand
Master of Masons for a longer period of time, we believe, than any other
Grand Master in the history of Masonry, and when Brother Shryock
shall be re-elected for the twenty-eighth time, as we doubt not he will
be, he will have served in his exalted station for a greater length of
time than any other man in the history of our great fraternity.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

79

An address, "Maryland Masons in the Revolution,'' by M.' · W.' ·
John N. Carter, Past Grand Master, was, by order of the Grand Lodge,
111lnted in the Proceedings.
It is a scholarly address, containing much information valuable not
only to the Masons of Maryland but to the Craft generally.
The Report on Correspondence is by the beloved Brother Edward
. 'I Schultz, P . S. G. W.
His reports are always of exceeding interest. California, 1910, is
fraternally considered, and approval is given to certain actions of the
tlrnnd Lodge, particularly the resolution that was adopted requiring
Junior Wardens to take judicial notice, as it were, of the conviction of
1ny members of their Lodges of a criminal offense, and to proceed with- ·
out further order to prefer charges against such members to bring them
to trial.
Brother Schultz gracefully overlooks some of the criticisms made
by the California correspondent of certain peculiarities of Maryland
procedure, and the California correspondent is glad to modify the form
In which certain opinions were expressed, and to state frankly and
freely that he believes that there are no better Masons in the world
than Maryland Masons, who understand better than anyone else how to
mnnage their own affairs.
Thomas J. Shryock, Baltimore, re-elected Grand Master.
George Cook, Baltimore, elected Grand Secretary.
MASSACHUSETTS, 1911.
A Special Communication of the M.'. W.' · Grand Lodge of Ancient,
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the city of Everett on Tuesday, the 24th day of January, A. L
5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of dedicating a new Masonic building for Palestine Lodge-Grand Master Dana J. Flanders in thi:
chair.
·
.
A Quarterly Communication of the M .' · W: · Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was held in the Masonic Temple, Boston, on Wednesday, the
8th day of March, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911.
At this Communication a report was presented from the Board of
Masonic Relief in which are mentioned matters of interest concerning
·
the Masonic H~me Fund; excerpts from that report as follows:
"Contributions pledged for Masonic Home Fund, $166,812.99. Fur·
nishing Fund $5,500.00. These sums do not include the amount of cash
transferred by the Grand Lodge from the Grand Charity. Fund, nor the
contributions of the Grand Chapter, the Grand Council and several
Commanderies of Knights Templars to the Maintenance Fund.

80

81

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

From these sources we have in addition:
From Grand Charity Fund .......................... $10,000.00
" Grand Chapter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,000.00
" Grand Council . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
500.00
Commanderies of Knight Templars. . . . . . . . . . . . .
22.70

A Special Communication of the M.'. w.:. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Jlrce and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the town of Charlton, on Thursday, the 25th day of May, A. L.
1
1911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of dedicating the new Masonic Home"

all of which sums have been paid in cash. The total paid in, not including the amount transferred from the Grand Charity Fund, is $135,178.18. '
AlllPlJO Temple, Mystic Shrine, has given a promise of $500.00, of which
·
a part has been paid.
"Fifty thousand dollars was paid for the Home with its three hundred and ninety-seven acres of land; $69,478.02 is in the hands of the
Masonic Education and Charity Trust, to which is to be added certain
accrued, but not yet collected, income. The Masonic Education and
Charity Trust also hold the Mt. Hope Lodge Fund amounting to $1,229.42. The Treasurer of the Board of Masonic Relief has on hand $23,877.78, and a small increment consisting of current collections and in~
come for 1910."
·

* * * * * *

"In conclusion, the question of whether the Home shall begin its
career of beneficence on the day when it is dedicated is one which the
brethren must settle for themselves. On that day the Craft will be the
owners of an estate fully paid for, its maintenance provided for, ready
in every respect to be of use for its destined purpose. Every dollar now
contributed will help ta. constitute a fund whose income will defray the
living expense of those who shall occupy the Home. What say you,
brethre!!? When the ceremonies which mark the completion of this
monument of charity are finished, shall we turn away from it in the
train of our Grand Master, knowing that its rooms are to be tenantless,
that the doors are to be closed, that those· who are looking to us for
refuge and shelter are to be outside its walls gazing at its darkened windows with a longing for the comfort that could so easily be given them
for the little while they are to stay among us, or shall the busy hum
of occupancy fill it with life, shall food and rest wait for those in need
of both, shall the lights of Overlook shine out over the broad valleys
which surround it to be like a beacon to the poor, and distressed; to
i>roclaim, by their radiance, their silent message to the State and the
world,. which shall tell of the good name of our Fraternity redeemed,
because we are satisfying the pledge we entered into, when we joined
ourselves together? Shall we hold fast to the tenets of our profession,
and prove our Truth by the exercise of Brotherly Love in granting Relief
to those with whom we profess to be linked together by an indissoluble
chain. of sincere affection?
"You, brethren, are the chosen representatives of the Craft, and
through you and those whom you have made our associates in this
great work of relief we look for an answer. If each will do his little
pMt, that answer. will be one we shall not be ashamed to give."
A Special Communication of the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the city of Beverly on Satu~day, the 20th day of May, A. L.
5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of a Federal building in that city.

In opening his address upon this occasion, the Grand Master says :
"We have assembled here today to celebrate the consummation of
r>ur ardent hopes and desires for many years; the Grand Lodge charity,
for which many of our brethren have dreamed and prayed, has become,
by this official act of the Grand Lodge, a reality, and we have at last
In Massachusetts a Masonic Home designed for the shelter and refuge
of our unfortunate brethren and the dependent members of their families who may be eligible to take advantage of its protection.
"Homes of this character have been established in other jurisdictions,
nn<l have been satisfactorily conducted for many years, with the addition in some of them of facilities for the accommodation and education
,,f the children of deceased Masons, and the advantages here P.resented
will enable us in the days to come to make provision of a similar char11ctcr for our orphans. I anticipate with the fullest confidence that in
the years to come our brethren will not be satisfied until they have provided not only for the elderly brothers, their widows and dependents, but
nR well for the little ones, both in the nature of a home and the fitting
of these children to occupy positions in the world for which their fathers
·
would have prepared them had they been permitted to live."
R.'. w:. Melvin W. Johnson made a most thoughtful and eloquent
11ddress at the dedication of the Masonic Home, well worthy of the
perusal of every Mason, and while it is impossible to produce here the
nddress in full, there is the thought that misfortune may come to anyone in life, even those apparently most happily situated, which he implies
in the following forceful and striking manner:
"It has been said that every man is responsible for his own destiny.
No other epigram, containing much that ie· trne, ever contained more
that is false. Not that we should neglect personal endeavor or do else
than encourage it in others, but rememeerlng how enviT-0nment and surroundings have shaped our own lives, we should not too lightly con·
demn others whose lives have been in some respects failures.
"More than twenty-three hundred years ago, in a discussion between
Cyrus, the king, and Crcesus, the intimate friend and associate of Solon,
one of the wisest of the Greeks, when Cyrus was not convinced by any
argument that his plans could fail, Crtesus used these words, perhaps
suggested to him by his friend, the wise law-giver: 'Cyrus, if thou thinkest that thou are like one of the Gods and no harm can come to thee,
it may do, but I am reminded, oh, ki1tg, and take this lesson to heaf"I,
that there is a wheel on whkh the affairs of men revolve and that its
mechanism is such that it prevents any man fro1t1. being always fo1'tuKate.'
"Each of our lives revolves upon such a Greek wheel. None of them
are fortunate in all things, and it may well be that as much of our good
fortune comes from the force of circumstances, so the ill fortune of
others may likewise not be due to their own inherent fault or error.
"Are you wealthy? An earthquake or a panic may send you to the
poor-house. Are you happy 1n the love of your home and family? A

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

railroad accident may end that happiness for ever. Are you strong and
healthy? The snapping of a bolt may make you a life-long cripple.
"Socrates, the first moral philosopher, the energies of whose lifetime Vl'.er~ given to pleading ~ith m.eni young and old, convincing them
of their ignorance and arousmg w1thm them the slumbering seeds of
knowledge,-yet was forced to drink the poisoned cup and thus end
his care~r, saying : 'Fa:ewell, my j_udges, it is now time to go away; for
me to die; for you to hve; yet which of us shall come to his reward and
receive the homage due to upright conscience is known alone to Him who
rules the world. '
"Demosthenes, the great thinker and orator, who devoted his life
also, to the uplifting of the youth of his time, was voted to death fo;
his teaching, which the judges called false doctrines.
"Cresar, probably the greatest general and king who ever lived was ,
struck down in the height of his glory by his own pretended frie~ds.
"Napoleon .died an outcast at St. Helena. Lincoln, after saving a
race and a nation, fell by the hand of an assassin. There are many
others-Webster and Clay, Blaine and Conkling, Colfax and Greeley,
Sumner and Douglas, Grant-and yes, even Roosevelt and Diaz-to
remind us that there is a wheel on which the affairs of men of cities
and of nations revolve, and its mechanism prevents us all f~om being
always fortunate."

"The interior of the main house is charming. The main entrance
is in the middle of the front. Opposite the door stairs rise to the second floor, twining in both directions on a landing that is lighted by a
battery. of small windows which also afford good light to the main hall.
"On either side of the entrance door are small parlors or waiting
rooms, while a huge fireplace built of field stone occupies the left side
of the main hall. On the right is the dining-room, bright in a flood of
light from broad windows on three sides.
"Down the corridor to the left may be seen the big corner lounging room, equipped with plenty of windows and light, built-in leather
cushioned seats, field stone fireplace, and leading from it is the room
designated for an assembly room, and beyond that a smaller room
marked on the original plan for a card room.
"In the ell adjoining the dining-room are ample serving, storage
and pantry rooms, regular!)' fitted hotel kitchen with every modern
implement and equipment for easy and efficient service and results, ice
boxes, storerooms for groceries and supplies, and in short, everything
needful.
"On the second floor are fifty-two bedrooms, some single and others
en suite, all prettily Japered, some with running water, but mostly
without. On the secon floor are many baths and lavatories, while numerous toilet rooms are conveniently installed on the first floor.
"The entire inside finish is of hard wood, mostly oak, while the first
floor flooring is all of narrow oak, without a crack or warp in it. The
standing finish is also in perfect condition and of old English finish. The
finish of the bedrooms and upper halls is of white painted soft wood,
while the floors are of birch.
"The entire plant is steam heated. The laundry is a commodious
and completely equipped building, detached from the main house and
partially concealed by a grove of pines. Still further back an ample
stable and garage combined suggests possibilities for hospital uses in
case of need, as well as possibilities for enlargement in later years."

.
Upon the conclusion of the oration, the United States flag and the
streamer of the Home w~re raised upon the flag staff, "America" being
sung by the audience, and the natfonal colors being unfurled by Miss
Ruth Louise Flanders, daughter of the Grand Master.
The following is a description of this great Masonic charity from
the New England Craftsman :
"The estate occupied by the Masonic Home is located in the town
of Charlton and contains 397 acres of land, about 200 acres of which
is woodland and the remainder tillage and pasturage.
"It is thirteen miles from Worcester on the line of the electric
r?ad from W orceste: to Southbr!dge. The buildings are located on
htgh ground from which can be enioyed one of the most extended views
in the State. An idea of the value of the property may be had in the
fact that the buildings alone have cost more than $325,000. There is a
stable that cost ~2,000, and a water ~ower that cost $18,000. Everything
about the house ts of the best quality and has been so little used that
hardly a mark of defacement can be found.
"The building is of a modern type of architecture, with heavy field
stone ballustrate and pillars supporting the veranda roof, heavy buttresses of stone and steps of the same, while the terracing in front of
the house is done in the same way.
. "The main h~use has a long frontage with slight break in its straight
!me, thereb)'. adding to th~ effect, and fro~ the. rear two ells project.
The whole ts of two stones only. The piazza ts broad and low with
ample roof sloping down· to keep the sun off and also affording a wide
floor area. ~h!s runs entirely around both ends of the building, curving
around the dmmg-room on the west and about the lounging and assem!>ly room on the eas! end. The view from the piazza in every direction
1s a. sweep of charmmg country landscape, and fully fifteen miles to the
horizon.

A Special Communication of the M.'. W.' . Grand Lodge .of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the town of Amherst, on Thursday, the 8th day of J une, A. L.
5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of dedicating a Masonic Temple for
the occupancy of Pacific Lodge.
A Quarterly Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was held in the Masonic Temple, Boston, on Wednesday, the 14th
day of June, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911.
After this Quarterly Communication an amendment to the Grand
Constitution was adopted, giving greater facility to the formation of
new Lodges, the need of which is quite apparent, for, while the number
of Masons has more than doubled in Massachusetts since 1888, only
twelve new Lodges have been formed since that date.
A Special Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held at N ewtonville, in the city of Newton, on Friday, the 16th day of
June, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of restoring the charter of
Fraternity Lodge.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

A Quarterly Communication of the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was held in the Masonic Temple, Boston, on Wednesday, the 13th
day of September, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911.
At this time the Grand Lodge was favored with the presence of a
distinguished visitor in the person of the M:. W:. Royal A. Gove,
Past Grand Master of Maso!'s in the State of Washington.
He was introduced and cordially greeted and was given a seat at
the right hand of the Grand Master.
Memorials to certain eminent deceased brethren, former officers of
the Grand Lodge, were adopted at this Communication.
A Special Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the city of Cambridge on Wednesday, the 18th day of October,
A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of dedicating the Cambridge
Masonic Temple.
·
A Special Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Ancienl'
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the town of Randolph on Wednesday, the 25th day of October,
A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of dedicating the new Masonic
apartments of Norfolk Union Lodge.
·
A Special Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was held
in the town of Marion on Tuesday, the 31.st day of October, A. L. 5911,
A. D. 1911, for the purpose of dedicating the new Masonic building of
Pythagorian Lodge.
A Special Communication of the M.·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the city of Malden on Wednesday, the 22d day of November,
A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of constituting the Lodge of
Stirling.
A Quarterly· Communication of the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was held in the Masonic Temple, in the city of Boston, on
Wednesday, the 13th day of December, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911.
At this Quarterly Communication, the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master
presented his annual address. He reviews in a comprehensive manner
the work of the year, giving a list of dispensations grartted, Special
Communications held, invitations, etc., dwelling at length upon the
Masonic Home, etc. ·
The committee to whom was referred the matter of the recognition of the Grand Orient of Italy reports that it is still considering the
matter. There appears to be some uncertainty as to the outcome, but
the hope is expressed that it will be satisfactory to all parties, and,

whether favorable or not, will afford foundation fur future correspondence and negotiation.
Recognition of the York Grand Lodge of Mexico was extended,
this body being iubstituted in the list of legitimate Grand Lodges fOt'
the former Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico.
From the report of the Grand Secretary · it appears that the total
number of members August 31, 1911, of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts is 60,844, an increase over the preceding year of 2,165.
Further memorials were presented at this Communication of the
distinguished dead of the jurisdiction, and the usual el~tion of Grand
Officers took place.
The election resulted in the choice of Everett C. Benton, of Belmont, as Grand Master.
A Special Communication o(the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free and Accepted Masons of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts was
held in the town of Swampscott on Thursday, the 21st day of December,
A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of a
grammar school building on Redington street.
The Grand event of the year in Massachusetts Masonry is, as is
well known, the Feast of St. John the Evangelist, which takes place on
St. John the Evangelist's Day of each year, at which time the Grand
Officers chosen at the Quarterly Communication in December are installed and after which there is a grand banquet participated in by
the m~mbers of the Grand Lodge, followed by eloquent and instructive
addresses by distinguished visitors and eminent Masons of the jurisdictions.
The addresses upon this occasion were of a high order and at the
end of the feast the brethren were called from refreshment to labor
again and the Grand Lodge was clo"d in Ample Form.

84

Everett C. Benton, Boston, Grand Master.
Thomas W. Davis, Boston, Grand Secretary.
MEXICO, 1912.
The session was opened in Form by R.' . W.' · Deputy Grand Master
Cecil C. Freston, in the absence of the M.'. w:. Grand Master W . H.
Seamon, who was unable to attend on account of communications being cut between Chihuahua and Mexico City.
The M .'. W .'. Grand Master W . H. Seamon was, on account of
the disturbed conditions of the country, unable to reach the City of
Mexico, and in his absence the M.' . W.' . Deputy Grand Master, Cecil
C. Freston presided.
The business of the Communication consisted of the usual Grand
Officers' reports, reports of committees, and election of Grand Officers
for the next ensuing Masonic year.

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Brother Cecil C. Freston was elected Grand Master, and upon his
'
installation said:
. .'"I beg to assure you· ipy brethren, that it is with a great many misg1vmgs that I accept the high office that you have been pleased to confer
upon me; it is one of great responsibility and the eyes of all the world
are upon us. In my short trip to the United States taken last October
and November, I discovered to my astonishment that Mexican Masonry
was the general topic of conversation in nearly every gra.nd jurisdiction'
and the misconceptions which were found concerning it were almost
unbelievable. It is my wish that each and every member of this Grand
Lodge, even to the youngest Entered Apprentice, assist me, is so far as
their ability will serve, in maintaining the integrit:y of this Grand Lodge
and securing its advancement. I thank you, brethren."
Grand Master Seamon, who was unable tO be present at this Communication, forwarded his address, and it was in due time read to the
Grand Lodge; and his address opened as follows:
"Another year has blended with the desert shadows of the past and
the golden sands still flow in the never ceasing hour glass of time. My
year of stewardship is ended and I herewith submit the reports required by your laws.
.
.
"The disturbed conditions of the country; the sudden and remarkable political changes; have caused a feeling of unrest and uncertainty
that has obst~ucted our numerical growth but not our usefulness. Never
before has this Grand Lodge been equally as useful. 'The distress prevalent all over the Republic has made constant drains upon the funds
of the subordinate lodges and the resources of the individual members,
yet no case of need has been turned down and help has been. given in
m~ny instances when the petitioners had · no claims upon us. The consciousness of duty well performed is the best reward ·Our members can
ever .h~.
· "Masonry flourishes best in times of peace, consequently we have only
expected to h6ld our owri and it is a gratifying surprise to inform you
that we have had a small numerical increase."
The Grand Secretary reported that the change of name of the
· Grand Lodge, necessitated on account of the secession of a few of the
Lodges formerly belonging to the jurisdiction, had met with practically
universal approval, the Grand Secretary stating that he had received
flattering acknowledgments from all of the Grand Lodges which had
formerly recognized the old Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, accepting the
new Grand Lodge, with its change of name in lieu thereof, only two of the
American Grand Jurisdictions up to that date having failed to acquiesce
in the substitution, etc., and one of these Grand Lodges was the Grand
Lodge of Louisiana, which, as may be judged from the following report
made by the Grand Master of Louisiana to his Grand Lodge, had refused to recognize the regularity of the present York Grand Lodge of
Mexico.
·
'T his is what the Grand Master of Louisiana stated in his report to
his Grand Lodge:
"Several years ago recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge
Valle de Mexico in the Federal District of that country. Soon after

87

thnt event a split occurred .in that body. O!lr qrand Lo'dge continued
It • fraternal intercourse with the body styling itself the York Grand
I odge as it contained the majority of the Lodges and seemed to have
r11ht on its side.
.
"Since then it has claimed jurisdiction over symbolic Masonry
throughout the Republic of Mexico. Th~re are a number of Grand
l;0dges in various ~tales of that country iust as each of the States of
· our Republic has its own Grand Lodge. To some of these Grand
f ,r>dges we have accorde~ reco?niti?n. an.d .we . are i!1 dut;r bound to
, eCO!{nize no authority which claims J?r1sd1c~1on m their territory, hence
the interruption of our entente cord1ale with. the York Grand Lodge.
We hope that body .will soon see !he error of its ways and recede fr~m
the position it has taken. When 1t does so the Qrand ~odge of Lomsl11na will gladly take it again by the hand of fr1endsh1p and fraternal
lnt~rcourse."

And to this report the Grand Secretary of Mexico replies as follows :

"It is to be regretted that the qrand Lodge <?f Lou!sai:a was !1ot
better informed regarding the condition of ~fasomc affairs .m Mex1.co.
'rhc so-called Grand Lodge Vall~ de ~ex1co, cor;ipos~d of seceding
rnembers from this Grand Lodge, 1s a strictly ~~ott1sh Rite body workunder Scottish laws and ritual and r.ecogn1zmg the Supreme Councl A. and A. S. R. as a superior body. · The ot~er so-c~lled Grand
Lodges recognized by the Grand Lodge of Lou1sana, viz., Oaxaca,
Nuevo Leon and the Grai:d Lodge 'Cosm~s' of Chihuahua, also 'York
under Scottish laws and ritual and recogmze the Supreme Council .A.
and A. S. R. as a superior body. The York Grand Lodge of Mex1~0
works under York Rite laws and ritual and ac~nowledges no body as its
1uperior This being the case, it follows logically and absolutely that
the York Grand Lodge of Mexico is the. only Grand Lodge .which can
hold jurisdiction oyer York R!te .M~s~ns m the w~ole Republtc of Mexico and it exercises such iurisd1ct101? and will continue to e:i,cercis~ such jurisdiction until other York Rite Grand Lodges are orgamzed
in the States of Mexico.
"The Grand Lodge of Louisiana has ,Placed its~lf in the. po~ition of
refusing to recognize a Grand ~odge of 1!s own km~ .and rite m favor
of Grand Lodges of another rite and. kmd ~ecogn!Zlng the .Sup~e~e
Council A. and A. S. R. as their superior, 'Yh1ch I do not belteve 1s m
nccordance with either the theory or practice of the Grand Lodge of
T,ouisiana."

lnr

Grand Secretary Young's reply states quite clearly the position of
the Y6rk Grand Lodge of Mexico and the reasons wh.y it should ~e
considered at the present time as the only Grand Lodge m the Republtc
of Mexico entitled to recognition as a regular, sovereign Grand Lodge.
From the reports of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary
we learn that the York Grand Lodge of Mexico is capably holding up
legitimate Masonry in these vexed and troubled times in that republic,
and in spite of all of the difficulties with which it has been obliged. to
contend it is more than holding its own numerically, the year which

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON. CORRESPONDEN.C E.

has just closed showing a slight gain in membership, and the Lodges are
~II in good working condition.
.
There is a brief Report on Foreign Correspondence by Past Grand
Master W. H. Seamon for the conunittee.

Past Grand Master Mitchell was introduced with the statement
th11t he had the day previously celebrated his ninety-fifth birthday, prob1~ly the oldest living Past Grand Master of any jurisdiction.
Past Grand Master
Mitchell made some felicitous remarks and
0
WllR accorded a most 1:tearty. and cordial reception by the Grand Lodge.
Past Grand Master Metcalf also entertained the Grand Lodge with
pltnsing and happy remarks, after which these distinguished Masons
wrre escorted to seats in the East, and the Grand Master resumed the
rtncling of. his address.
From a perusal of his address, we learn that the Grand Master's
oi Hicial year had been one of marked activity. New Lodges, which had
llll'Viously received charters, were duly constituted, several temples and
hnlls were dedicated, a number of corner-stones of important public
bnilclings were placed, dispensations were granted to form four new
l,oclges, and a large number of official visitations were made by the
<\rnnd Master, making this year, as stated, a very busy one.
Several visitations to other Grand Jurisdictions were accepted, and
oth<'r invitations of a like character were from pressure of business
dtclined.
Especial mention is made of the attendance by the Grand Master
npon the meeting of the George Washington Memorial Association at
Altxandria, Va., and of the great pleasure which the Grand Master
lt'rcived in connection with that visit from the meeting with distin111i~hed Masons from all parts of our country.
The Association and its purposes received the hearty endorsement
11f the Grand Master and of the Grand Jurisdiction of Michigan.
The greatest Grand Lodge function of the year occurred 011 Friday,
Mnrch 29, 1912, when the dedication of the Alma Masonic Home took
pince, and this function is described as being the greatest that ha~ ever
1>ecurred in the Grand Jurisdiction of Michigan.

88

Cecil C. Freston, Tamaulipas, re-elected Grand Master.
F. E. Young, Mexico City, re-elected Grand Secretary.
MICHIGAN, 1912.
The Grand Officers, Past Grand Officers and representatives of
the constituent Lodges of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
Michigan assembled in the Auditorium of the Masonic Temple in the
city of Detroit, at high twelve on Tutsday, the 28th day of May, A. D.
1912, in accordance with the provisions of the constitution and by-laws,
for the purpose of holding the Sixty-eighth Annual Communicatiop of
the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Michigan-Grand Master James E. Dillon presiding.
After the opening of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master informed
the brethren that there were present distinguished visitors from the
Grand Jurisdiction of Virginia and a committee of Past Grand Masters
was appointed to retire and escort the distinguished visitors to seats· in
the Grand Lodge.
The distinguished visitors were Brother W . L. Andrews, Grand
Master of Virginia; Brother Charles H . Callahan, Past Master of Alexandria-Washington Lodge No. 22, Alexandria, Va. (He was also secretary of the George Washington Memorial Association.)
After the distinguished brethren were intPOduced, they were cordially welcomed by the Grand Master, after which a suitable response
on behalf of the visitors was made by Past Grand Master Andrews of
Virginia.
When the Grand Lodge resumed labor at the afternoon session, the
Roll of Honor was called by the Grand Secretary, the Grand Lodge
standing, and the Grand Secretary was happily able to announce that
there had heen no addition to the Roll of Honor since the last Communication of the Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master delivered the annual address, in which he
assured the brethren that the Grand Jurisdiction was in a prosperous
condition, that peace and harmony existed among the Craft, and that
the jurisdiction was now in friendly relations with all of the sister
Grand Jurisdictions.
In the midst of the Grand Master's address an interruption took
place caused by the introduction of Past Grand Master Mitchell and
Past Grand Master Metcalf, who were received with private Grand
Honors.

Concerning this ceremony and the responsibilities of the Grand
l,odge in connection with the new Masonic Home, the Grand Master
1ays:
"I am sure the constituent Lodges, who were represented at the
dedication, must fully realize the good work which has been accompliAhed in the interest of the Craft.
"One of the important matters which will be presented you for con1lcteration will he the increase of per capita for maintenance of the
!Jome. This is a proposition, not only from a business standpoint. but
•Ille of Masonic duty as well. The present per capita is considerably
lnwer than in any of our sister Grand Jurisdictions that are· maintaining
Masonic Homes.
"Let us take a liberal view of this matter and let us manifest a
n1ost liberal attitude in the consideration of its future demands. It is
•)Ur duty to support our Home."
21

REPORT ON CORRESP0Iit:£j~N(}£.
The Masonic H6rne, worth in excess of $100,000, was ·a frte, ilnrestrided gift to ·the Masons of Mielrigah by Hon; Ammi .W. Wright of
Alma, Mich., a non-Ma~<in, but a public spirited, pbifatithropic citizena free gift to the Ma.s ons of Michigan to aid m. the cltrtying forward
of humanitarian work in which Mr. Wright's sympathies were deeply
enlisted.
On the day of the dedication, Mr. Wright could not attend the
ceremonies (not being in his usual health}, but from his window he
watched the crowds pass to and fro, and it may be stated that from this
illness Mr. Wright, who at that time was ninety years of age, never recovered, and his death occurred something more than a month afterwards. The magnificent Home which he gave to Michigan Masonry is
a monument to him that will endure long after the marble monument
that marks his resting place shall have crumbled to dust.
The reports of the Grand Treasurer and the Grand Secretary show
sound and healthful conditions throughout the Grand Jurisdiction. and
demonstrate in connection with the reports of the other Grand Officers
that Masonry is splendidly performing its functions in this, one of the
most important States of the Union.
The Grand Lodge was entertained in the· morning of the second
day by an extended address by M.'. w:. Brother William L. An..
drews, Past Grand Master of the Grand Jurisdiction of Virginia, in
the interest of the George Washington National Masonic Memorial
Association, and an address was also made upon the saine subject by
Past Master Charles H. · Callahan, and at the conclusion of these
addresses, which were of a highly patriotic order, the Grand Lodge was
called up and united in singing "America."
The per capita tax was, by order of the Grand Lodge, increased
from 45c to 65c, the additional 20c to go to the fund for the maintenance of the Masonic Home and Hospital.
The R. '. W:. Lou B. Windsor, Past Grand Master, presented in
an eloquent and happy manner a Grand Master's jewel to the retiring
Grand Master, M.". W.'. James E. Dillon.
The retiring Grand Master received the token and most gracefully
expressed his appreciation of the beautiful gift.
The report of the Special Committee on the George Washington
National Memorial Association, which project is heartily endorsed, is as
follows :
"The committee appointed to consider that portion of the Grand
Master's · address pertaining to the George Washington National Memorial Association begs to report as follows :
"We feel that every citizen of this country realizes, to some extent,
the unequaled service that George Washington performed in the establishment of this republic; that every Mason should ·rt·afize the fact that
Washington was not only the father of his ctilintr.y, atid a inan of unusual
character, but that he was, in many ways, the leading Mason of his

time; that, therefore, 89 thodetn Mli90tlry is 1:ledicat~d to St. }<11tll the
Blptist art4 .St. }dtt11 tlie Evanglil~, ·so Atttetican Masonry ~t 1'C!')'
well be ded!C'ated l!O Gedrge Washington as dftT patron Masumc saint.
"We feel that it is high ·tii'ne fh'llt a monument to comrttemonite
George Washington as a Mason be erected; and, furtherm111re, that it
be loc:i,ted a~ nearly as possible on the spot where .he held office as
Worshipful Master. That the Masons <Jf this country should s-how forth
.to the world the fact that George Washington was a Mason, and that,
t~crefore, the project, if carried thro\lgh at all, be on a basis fitting the
unusual circumstances, and as recommended by the Assoeiation.
"This committee, therefore, recommends the adoption of that portion of the Grand Master's report which deals with this subject, and
urges upon the constituent Lodges of this Grand Jurisdiction their very
favorable consideration in the financial suppDTt of this project which so
well deserves our most earnest efforts."

w:.

The Report on Correspondence is by the Grartd Secretary, M.".
J,ou B. Windsor, Past Grand Master, in which California, 1911, is con1idered.
Quotations from the Grand Master's address, from reports of committees, etc., are made in a friendly and fraternal !lpirit.
James H. Thompson, Lansing, elected Grand M'a ster.
Lou B. Windsor, Reed City, re-elected Grand Secretary.
MINNESOTA, .1912.
The Fifty-ninth Annual Communication of the M.'. w:. Grand
Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Minnesota was held
in the Masonic Temple, Sixth street -and Smith avenue, in the city of
St. Paul, commencing at high twelve on Wednesday, January 17, A. D.
1912, A. L. 5912-Grand Master Elmer A. Kling presiding.
All the Grand Officers were present. During the session 224
Lodges were represented out of 253 on the roll.
The Grand Master's address shows a year of Masonic activity in
his jurisdiction. Corner-stone ceremonies in connection with the new
Federal building at Austin, Minn., and the new High School building
in Spring Valley, Minn., and also in connection with the new Federal building at Faribault, Minn., are fully described, and the occasions
were Masonically stimulating to the places in which they were held.
The dedication of the new Masonic Hall 9f Garnet Lodge No. 166
is described, an<l the fraternity of the State is congratulated upon the
completion of such a well-appointed and beautiful Temple.
A few decisions upon Masonic law were rendered by the Grartd
Master, most of them of a purely local character.
Two of the decisions of a general nature we quote, as follows :
"Where a candidate who has been accepted, immediately before
taking the obligation of the Enteired Awrentiee degree withdrew, not
being willing to proceed, the degree fee may be returned to him. The
fee accompanying the petition for the degrees of Masonry becomes

92

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the property of the Lodge as soon as the Petition is acted upon, the
ballot spread and the candidate elected. If a candidate, before taking .
the obligation, declines to proceed, and withdraws, he is entitled to have
the fee for ccmferring the degrees returned to him.

*

*· *

*

*

*

*

*

..

*

*

*

"The residence of a petitioner for the degrees of Masonry at the
time of the receipt of the petition governs. A Lodge has jurisdiction
to receive and act upon a petition of an applicant, who at the time of
making such petition was a resident of the Jurisdiction, but who before
the application was balloted on moved to another jurisdiction."
Dispensations to form two new Lodges were granted in the year.
From the report of the Grand Treasurer we learn that there stands
to the credit of the Widows and Orphans' Fund $67,683.84 and to the
General Fund something in excess of $20,000, making total available
assets of the Grand Lodge apparently $87,816.
In accordance with the report of the Committee on Jurispruden~e,
the following resolution was adopted by the Grand Lodge, which
may be of general interest :
. "Resolved, That Lodges be and are hereby permitted to have the
Scriptures chanted instead of read, or March Music played, during
the circumambulations in the work of the three degrees; that the
Lord's Prayer be permitted to be chanted before the Prayer at Initiation; that instrumental March Music be permitted durmg any time
the candidate is marching; that either a carpet, movable or built-in
stair, may be used in the second degree; that plain robes be permitted
for all officers and others who actively participate in the second section
of the third degree, and that a lantern or stereopticon and appropriate
music be permitted in the lectures only, as distinguished from the
'work' in all degrees."
The Grand Lodge gave its endorsement to the project of the Memorial to Washington the Mason, the following resolutions having been
apparently adopted unanimously:
"Your Committee on Memorial to Washington the Mason recommends the adoption of· that part of the Grand Master's address, to
continue the membership of this Grand Jurisdiction in the Washington
Memorial Association, and recommends that the incoming Grand Master
and one brother to be appointed by him, be continued as the representatives to the Association."

. In accordance with the order of the Grand Lodge, the able address
delivered by Grand Orator Alexander G. McKnight, on the first day
of the Communication, we find printed in the appendix of the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge.
. The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Irving Todd,
in which California, 1910, is briefly reviewed.
Owen Morris, St. Paul, elected Grand Master.
John Fishel, St. Paul, re-elected Grand Secretary.

93

MISSISS'IPPI, 1912.
The Ninety-fourth Annual Grand Communication of the Grand
l,odge of Mississippi, Free and Accepted Masons, was held in the city
11f Hattiesburg on Tuesday, February 20, 1912.
Preceding the formal opening of the Gr'and Lodge, w:. Brother
I i Waldo Batson, as Master of Ceremonies, called to order a large
number of brethren and citizens of Hattiesburg, and their ladies, in
the Auditorium of Hattiesburg, where a pleasing program of exercises
" 111 carried out, to the delight and edification of the audience, and after
this entertaining prelude had been disposed of the Grand Lodge was
opened in Ample Form.
In opening his address, the Grand Master says:
"Brethren, it affords me unbounded pleasure to announce that
rwnce and harmony prevail, and that the great moral principles, as
tAu!(ht in the several Masonic lectures, seem to be shaping the lives
and conduct of our brethren throughout this Grand Jurisdiction, and
I most attribute a lar~e measure of this success to your admirable
1y~tem of dispensing Masonic instruction through your District Deputies and your Schools of Instruction. I assure you that it is a source
nf very great satisfaction to visit different Lodges, and to observe the
1llmost perfect rendition of the work and lectures of the several Masonic
degrees, and to note the zeal and fidelity of the Craft as they realize
1nrl understand more thoroughly the meaning of these great moral prin' lples, the resurrection of the body and the immortality of the human
.,,u(, the great Fatherhood of God and .the Brotherhood of Man."
He alludes most feelingly to the terrible havoc wrought by the Grim
Ruper in the preceding year among the Past Grand Masters of the
jurisdiction, no less than four of Mississippi's Past Grand Masters havlnir been touched by the Death Angel.
Jn the early part of the year Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary Frederic Speed was called to his reward.
In November the Grand Lodge was again called to mourn the untimely death of the dearly beloved Past Grand Master, M. M. 'Evans,
11who for some thirty years had breathed the balmy breezes of the
Southern Sea."
"And yet again when the people were preparing to celebrate the
hlrth of the humble Nazarene at the joyful Christmas-tide, as night
was wrapping the earth in her sable mantle, the sad news was ftashed
over the wires that the Grim Reaper had cut the brittle thread of life
'"'' the soul of our lamented brother, Past Grand Master Enoch George
Delap, was called before the God whom he had served with zeal and
fidelity for more than half a century, and on Wednesday, the 27th,
St. John's Day, when the subordinate Lodges throughout the jurisdiclion were installing their officers for the ensuing Masonic year, we
lnld to rest all that was mortal of our deceased friend and brother,
beneath mounds of flowers, the tender offerings of loving, faithful and
admiring friends.

!~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"And then again the Silent Mes~ger· knocked at our outer door
and on the 17th day of January, 1912; ·the summons came and ou;
faithful and beloved Past Grand Master, J4>im S; Cobb, was ca11ed to
appear b~fo~e the Great White Throne t<> answer the last rpll call, a.R<t
on the evenmg of the 18th1 thoug~ the weather was very inclemc.nt, all
that was mortal of our former friend and brother was laid to rest in
the silent city of the dead at Verona, under the auspices of Verona
Lodge No. 263, by the hands of his life-long friends and brethren."

An e:ii:tenoiv..e report gf the CommitU:e on Masonic Law and Jurisprudence was pre11e111ted by Past Grand Master Thomas, and duly
adopted, and while the report is too elaborate to qUDte from, its perusal
is stroiWy reco1Jmlen4&d to thos.e to who!Tl Masonic law and jurisprudence is a vital aR<l interesting subject.
On motion of P~st Grand Master Thomas, action on the Grand
Master's recommeri<Jation touching the action of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland in con~rrina tlll.e degree of Ma5ter Mason upon a negro was
deferred until the ne:ii:t Annual Communication.

94

Three corner-stones of important public buildings were placed in
the year under Masonic auspices. The Grand Mq.ster has apparently
little use for the Gr;md Lodge of Scotl;i.ncl, and his views upon the
subject, as set forth in the following recommendation, which he em~
bodies in his address, will, we doubt not, be shared by many others:
"I would respectfully recommend that this Grand Lodge sever the
fraternal · relations that now exist between this Grand Lodge and the
Grand .Lodge of . Scotland until that qrand Jurisdiction shall repu,diate
the a~tlon. of Dun.dee Lodge,. a su_bordmate member of that jurisdiction,
for v1olatmg a universal quahficat1on for membership and for conferring
the degrees of Mason;y upon the negro prize fighter, Jack Johnson,
who was not at the time of his so-called initiation even a citizen of
Scotland.
'.'That this Grand Lodge p.Jace itself on record as condemning in no
unnustak~ble ~erms the action _of any Lodge in ignoring the i.ndispens•
able quahficat10ns of the applicants for the degrees of Ancient Free
and Ac.:epted Masonry.
"That in accordance with a principle laid down by this Grand
Lodge in reference to the social _inequality of the negro with the Anglo
Sa:x;on or wh1~e r:ice, and of his moral unfitness to asswne the high
duties and obhgat1ons of Masonry, and for the more sacred relations
of fraternal equality with the white man.
"Therefore, if any Grand Jurisdiction desires to descend in the
scale. of. so~ial equality to the lower level of th~ negro they can do so,
but. Ill JUSt!CC to Ourselves and to the ~erpetu~ty Of the purity of the
white race, we mus~ sever fraternal relat10ns with them and not permit
them to drag the high moral 11rinciples of our sacred institution in the
mire of shame and dishonor."
From the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Home we learn that
there are now 75 children sheltered in this beneficent institution, air of
them receiving instruction and training fitting them to cope successfqijy with life and h.elping to make of them t)seful men and women.
Tb.e, Masonic Home is apparently in a flourishing financial condi"
tion, the total of the endowment fund at the present time exceeding
$100,000, and if to this be a~ded the value of the buildi1Jgs,· 1and, etc.,
a total. mqq~tary v.aJue of this institµtion of about $175,00Q is disclosed.
A very subitantial sum was added to the endovm11mt fund during
the preceding year, and it is by virtue of efforts C\f' this character that
Masoa~ sympathy and cfiarity are stinmlated and ~larged, and these
are spme of tQe reasons w.IJY Ma~911ic Homes in jurisdictiol)S th~t have
them are valuable adjuncts to Masonry.

The following report on the action of the War Department in ordering the exclusion of Masonic emblems upon tombs in national cemeteries
was adopted :
"Your committee appointed to consi~r the action of the War Department in excluding Masonic emblems from the tombs in National
Cemeteries beizs leave to report as follows:
"We, the Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Mississippi, in
Grand Lodge assembled at Hattiesburg, February 21, 1912, having had
our attention called to this action of the War Department by the
M.".
Grand Master, would in a most respectful manner enter our
solemn protest to what we consider an unwarranted attack on one e>f our
greatest fraternal and benevolent institutions by this department oi the
National Government. We feel keenly the thrust made at our ancient
and •onorable institution, one that has in all ages taught respect for
and obedience t-0 the laws of the country in which we live; therefore,
be it
"Resolved, That the representatives of Mississippi in the National
Senate and House of Representatives be, and are, hereby requested to
make, or cause to be made, a thorough investigation as to the causes of
the action of the War Department herein referred to, and i~ possible
locate the one responsible for the placing of such a discrimination on
our fraternity. and that they put forth their best efforts to have same
removed ; therefore, be it further
"Resowed. That the Grand Secretary of this Grand LodKe_ be instructed to furnish a copy hereof to oor representatives in 'the National
Cong~ess, also to the Honorable Secretary of War, to the President of
the United States anq other Grand Bodies of other jurisdictions, with
the requ,e st that he ~Ice such steps as in his judgJllent may appear
necessary to remove this cniel and unwarranted stigma placed upon
our honorable institution."
A lengthy and erudite address on Scottish Rite Masonry· was deliver.ed on the second day of the Annual Communication by Brother
M. R. Gram ; also an address upon the same subject by Past Grand
Master Ch;lrlea F. Buck.
It is not exactly clear to the ordinary observer just how the subject of Scottish Rite Masonry and the confticting claims ,of various
bodies pr;µ:ti~ing tQi.s rite is relevant to the proceedings of a sovereign
and independef!t Grand Lodge e>f Ancient Craft Masonry, nevertheless
the elaborate addresses of the distinguished brothers upon the subje<::_t
contain much that may be considered very interesting in the way of
information.

w:.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

That the Grand Lodge, however, is dabbling in the subject of
"Scottish Rite" Masonry may be judged froi:n the following resolution, which was duly adopted:·
"Resolved, That this M:. w:. Grand Lodge recognize as lawful
Master Masons and lawful Brother Masons those who received their
symbolic degrees in a Scottish Rite Lodge, provided that in the country or jurisdiction from which he hails the Scottish Rite of Freemasonry
· is the dominant body, and no Grand Lodge exist in said country; and
provided further, that the Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite under
which such Lodge works or exists is in fraternal relations with the
Supreme Council of the Southern or Northern Juris.dictions of the
United ·States of America."

And we venture the opinion that there are vast numbers of Masons,
1111rth and south, that are in entire accord with his views upon this
\lbject, and who will not take issue with him in the indignation which
lu feels that any Grand Jurisdiction will sanction the conferring of the
' ulilime degrees of Masonry, with their teachings of morality and purity,
upon so debased a person as the negro bruiser, Jack Johnson, who at
lhiM moment is in prison, held to answer to an abhorrent charge in connection with white slavery. For a Grand Jurisdiction to permit the
111nferring of the degrees of Masonry upon such a debased creature as
1hb, who was. not a resident of the jurisdiction giving him the degrees,
lmt simply a bird of passage there, and then to turn him loose upon
lc1altimate Masonry, is an affront to the entire Masonic world, and is a
1u1t cause of indignation against the jurisdiction guilty of this act.
In Brotper Howard's report, California, 1911, is concisely treated.

96

From an inspection of the statistical summary, it appears that the
present membership of this Grand Jui;-isdictio11 is 18,931, a net gain
over the preceding year of 784,
The report on Foreign CoHespondence is by Past Grand Master
Harry Howard.
We quote Brother Howard's introductory remarks upon the subject of negro Masonry, as follows :
"For the information of those who read this report, I wish to say
that• our action in severing our fraternal relations with New Jersey on
account of Alpha Lodge being composed almost entirely of negro'5 has
been looked upon by the Masonic world with laughter. It waits with
wonder our action in regard to all the other Grand Lodges which
admit negroes to membership, England, Scotland, Nova Scotia and
many others with whom we hold fraternal relations, and whose Lodges
recognize no difference in race, color or creed. Asks us what we propose doing with Scotland, that has made a Mason of that black bruiser,
Jack Johnson.
"To these questions the writer replies by quoting the speech made
by this 'Dundee-made Mason':
" 'Well, Master, I want to speak to you and all of the boys from
the bottom of mah heart. I'm real pleased to be heah and become a
Mason under the auspices of such a fine Lodge, as it has been one of
the ambitions of mah life to become a Mason, and this is the proudest
day of mah existence. Mrs. Johnson's father is
big Mason across
the pond. He holds thirty-two degrees. Some day I may do the
same. God bless each and every one of you, from ·the bottom of Jack
Johnson's heart.'
"It seems to the writer ·o f this report that he was taught that certain
requirements are necessary to a candidate applying for the degrees,
such as coming under the tongue of good report and being well recommended. Masonry being an universal institution, it follows that a
man who is roade a· Mason in Dundee Lodge, Scotland, becomes not
only a member of Dundee Lodge, but a member of this great confraternity of ours, wherever he may travel, and as such is entitled to recognition and privileges granted to our own members.
.
"Hence it further . follows that we must keep our doors well
guarded so that none but the worthy and well qualified may enter.
Jack Johnson is a pugilist and therefore can bring no good to a fraternity, one of whose watchwords is Peace.''

a

97

J. Rice Williams, Houston, Grand Master.
Frederic Gordon Speed, Vicksbui:g, re-elected Grand Secretary.
MISSOURI, 1911.
'The Ninety-first Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
\ ncient Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Missouri con' 1•ned at Scottish Rite Cathedral, Seventeenth and Locust streets, St.
l,ouls, Mo., September 26, 1911, at 10 o'clock a. m.-Grand Master Clay
l · Bigger presiding.
Prior to the opening of the regular session of the Grand Lodge
the children from the Masonic Home marched on the stage and rendered a most enjoyable program.
As a prelude to the business portion of his annual address, the
llrnnd Master eloquently portrays a life gover~ed by the dictates of
duty, devoted to the happiness of others, and developed in accordance
with the principles that are inherent in the system of Freemasonry.
His introductory remarks are as follows :
"Brethre'n : Upon the ever-revolving wheels of time another year
hns passed and is now behind us. It brought to aU, in our several Stallons in life, labors to be performed and solemn duties and obligations
In be discharged.
"It is a part of the eternal plan of the great Creator of heaven
ind earth that every human life should be a life of industry; a life of
ljl!Od deeds ; a life of usefulness to his feUow man; living not so much
for himself as for others; a life dedicated and devoted to making others
happy; a life from which· selfishness has been eradicated and in its stead
11low love and compassion for those around him.''
"He who orders his life in conformity to these eternal truths;
who is ever ready to place his shoulder in loving-kindness under
the burdens that are bearing others down; who wipes away the
tears of sorrow; whose heart is expanded with compassion by the
11}' of distress; who is ever ready to stretch forth a strong hand
•>f love and sympathy and draw back from the depths of sin and

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

degr;ul~til:in his fallen brother. and again pla~e his feet upon the
firm fo1mdWon of. truth ;w.d. vir~ · wb,o hea.rkens UPlR ~ : wh95e
soµl . is · touched with _sympathy by the . sorrowmg of th.e '!"1do~ and
orphan· who daily diffuses the sunshine of peace and JQY m the
pethwaf. of t~ around him; wha- brings to the face of the sorrowing a smile of gladn.ess and. j.oy, ~nd who. lives mos~ for. others and
least for himself· IMl who hves his b¢i;t hfe thqs, hv.es 1n ~rmony
with the Divine ~ill and · plan. J.Ie will be blest of men and will lay,
up for himself a . crown of peace and joy which shall endure everlasting·, wlten Time shall be no more.
"FtreemalOlll'Y in its every word, every thought, e;very precept
i\.nd . every .emblem tea~hes thi.s higher and n~lu life. It seeks l>y
its . itnpres1Hve ceremonies, by its. precepts. of ~1gh mo~al ~on4uct and
by its be~utiful emblems, subh~elY. expfess1ve, to !nstill mto the
minds of its votaries a love of this higher and npbler life. It seeks to
implant in them a love for truth a!1d virtue ; ~o teach t~em the
Divine a.ttributes of love and compassion and cha•1ty for their fellow
man· to despise hypocrisy and, falsehood and wickedness; to know
God 'and His holy will and to order his life in conformity therewith.
"He who has been honored . by the privileges of our fra.ternity;
who on bended knee at the Altar of Freemasonry, has seen the
gloo~ and darkness around him give way b_efore the advanci!1g
light of Masonic truth, and who has not felt. his heart expand with
joy, and whose soul ha.s not been fired with a high and. noble
resolve to live less for himself and more for others, and to hve and
labor for the happiness of those around him, has enjoyed the privileges
of our order to little purpose. He has failed to grasp. and tre:,.sure in
his heart the sublime truths displayed on the M;asomc Trestleboard;
he has failed to learn and be impressed with the gre;it moral le~son
which Freemasonry teaches; that he who labors most for others strives
most by precept and his own example to raise his fellow man to a
higher, nobler Ii~' and !hat he who has . lear?ed to love t~uth an,d
virtue and to despise deceit and falsehood hves m harQlony with God s
eternal truths."
From the standpoint of accomplishment, the year was one of the
best in the history of Missouri Masonry.
'
Dispensations 'were granted to form eight new Lodges ; the Grand
Lodge was active in the plai:.ing of corner-stones of important public
buildings, especial mention being made by the Grand Master of .the
laying of the corner-stone on October 8, 1910~ of. the !llaghificent
Masonic Temple at 'Kansas City.
A similar ceremony took place at St. Joseph, Mo., on Of;~ber 22,
1910, and the Temple was completed and dedicated by the Grand
Lod~e on May 25, 1911.
The Grand Master refers to his of.ficial \lisiUo the Grand Lodge of
Kansas, and in speaking, of his visit to this jurisdiction the Grand
Master s.ays that :
"On· every hand there was an abundance of e.vi<lence that the cause
of Freemasonry. in the. Gr~d Jurisdidio!1 <;>f Kana:M\, our bd?vtd
daughter of whom we are Justly proud; 1& m the ~nds of skillful
Craftsmen who are building well. It was an occasion long to be
remembered by those who were presClllt:"

Speaking of the I\fasonic Home; the Grand Master says :
"The Masonic Home still continues to be the pride of the brethren
·>f the entire State. As will· appear by tl\e reports that will be submitted for your consideration, the Home in all departments is in most
"xcellent condition. Thos.e be1J.eath its sheltering roof wke are the
nbJects of our benefactions rt;ceive the most kind and solicitous care
and attention."
·
•

98

A number of decisi011s were rendered by the Grand Master, two

·>f which we quote as follows:
. "(\ District Deputy Grand Master stated that a Lodge in his
l>1stnct was expecting a large attendance of brethren at a meeting
to confer a number of degrees, and requested a dispensation permitting the Lodge to meet in an opera house for the occasion, as the
Lodge room would be inadequate to accommodate the crowd. I declined to issue the dispensation and held that a chartered Lodge
1 ould not legally meet and work in a building that had not been
clrdicated and consecrated to Masonic purposes."
"Vandalia Lodge No. 491.-When balloting on a petition for the
Mysteries of Freemasonry, a member took a black ball from the ballot
box, and, holding it up so all present could see it, then cast it. Afterwards, he publicly boasted that he had come all the way from Chicago
to cast a black ball against the petitioner. Question asked, Was the
member guilty of tsnmasonic conduct, and if so, what action should be
taken by the Lodge? Answer: The brother was guilty of most reprehensible and. unmasonic conduct, and charges should be preferred
Against him and he should be punished as the Lodge shall determine."
From the report of the Grand Secretary we learn that the total
number of members at this Communication was 53,218, a net gain over
the preceding year of 2,132. The balance in the hands of the Treasurer, September 30, 1911, was $70,234.04.
In accordance with report of the Committee on Recognition of
Foreign Grand Lo~es, recognition was extended to the York Grand
l.odge of Mexico, F. and A. M., this Grand Lodge beini the successor
of the former Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, the old Grand Lodge having become irregular by vir.tue of its seizure by seceders, revolJ,Uionary
In character.
Missouri, unlike any other Grand Jurisdiction of which we have
any knowledge, has two Grand Orators. Both were present at this
Annual Cornmunication-R.'. W .". Brother Fred S. Hudson, who deliv·
ered a learned discourse on "Ideal Masoncy," and R.'. W.'. Brother
f»crcy A. Budd, who used as the theme of an eloquent effort, "Who
C'omes Here?"
A vote of thanks was tendered by the Grand Lodge to both of the
eloquent gentlemen, with reqiiests that they furnish the Grand Secretary with copies of their orations, the same to be printed in the Pro(eedings.
·
The Report on Fraternal Correspondence is by Dr. C. C. Woods.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

California, 1910, is considered, with quotations from the annual
address of Past Grand Master W. Frank Pierce.
The two Masonic Homes are referred to as performing excellent
work.
The Memorial Services in honor of Grand Master Pierce are mentioned as of great interest, and the address of Brother William R.
Davis, characterized as unusual in excellence, is quoted from and described as "splendidly poetic and philosophic."
Arch A Johnson, Springfield, Grand Master.
John R. Parson, St. Louis, re-elected Grand Secretary.
MONTANA, 1911.
The Forty-seventh Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons of Montana was held in the
· Masonic Temple in the city of Missoula, commencing at 9 :30 o'clock
a. m. on Wednesday, September 20, 1911-J. W. Speer, Grand Master,
presiding.
The address of welcome to the members and officers of the Grand
Lodge, to the city of M'issoula, was delivered by Past Master United
States Senator Joseph M. Dixon, who said in part:
"In speaking of Masonry as an uplifting power, I may say that for
the last two or three centuries of the world's history I doubt whether
there was a more potent civil force among the nations of the globe .
than ~he. spirit embodied in Masonry, represented to-day by over 6,000
men m Montana.
"While we naturally like to go back to King Solomon's Temple for
sentimental traditions of the Order, we know that modern Masonry,
the period of its great usefulness, may be said to cover two or three
hundred years. It undoubtedly blazed the trail of human endeavor
for a betterment of existing conditions, for a philosophy of morals
and brotherly love that led the way among civilized men.
"In the history of Montana, known to all of us by tradition, Masonry has played a most creditable and· prominent part in its upbuildi_ng.
"Here on the west side, in this city Masonry I know has been a
factor only for good citizenship and betterment of local civil con·
ditions.
"We are especially proud to see the Masons meet this morning in
this our new Temple, in the erection of which we have taken some local
pride, at some sacrifice and a ~re1lt deal of ~evotion on t~e part ?f the
local membership. We all think our town 1s the best-if we did not
we would not be patriotic. We greet you and take pleasure in welcoming you to the gateway of the Bitter Root."
A fitting response to the address of welcome was made by Grand
Master Speer, after which the Grand Lodge was opened in Ample
Form.
Dispensations to form two new Lodges were granted in the year.

101

A few decisions were rendered upon local questions of law and
administration.
The Lodges, seven in number, that received charters at the precedlnir Annual Communication, were duly constituted.
A number of official visits were paid by the Grand Master
during the year to subordinate Lodges; there was the dedication of a
Masonic Temple at· Chinook; and other business of a routine character
occupied the Grand Master, making his year one of considerable
activity.
Reports were rendered by the various Grand Officers.
The report of the Grand Treasurer showed a balance on hand of
$9,101.50, and the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Home discloses a net investment in the Home of $116,532.04.
The Home is in good financial and physical condition and the
Board of Trustees, at the conclusion of· its report, states that there
nppears to be no reason why the Home cannot provide for a largely
Increased number of residents at a considerably less cost per capita.
M.". w:. Brother H. S. Hepner, for the Committee on Corre1pondence, presented the following report, touching the recognition
of the so-called York Grand Lodge of Mexico, and of certain European
l,odges, which report was duly adopted by the Grand Lodge, as follows :
"That York Grand Lodge of Mexico, with W. H. Seamon as
(,rand Master, be recognized as the regular Grand Lodge of Mexico
In correspondence with the Grand Lodge of Montana ; this is the successor or rather changed name of the Grand Lodge we have heretofore
accorded recognition.
"We believe that it will prove of value to the Craft to be in corre!Pondence with the Grand Lodges of Sweden, N otway, Denmark, The
Three Globes, Ham)>urg, Eclectic Union, Royal York, National Grand
1,odge of Germany, and the Grand Lodge of Saxony, and, therefore,
beg to recommend that this Grand Lodge does hereby accord th~se
several Grand Lodges recognition, and that the Grand Master be authorized to arrange for the exchange of Grand Representatives."
The proposition of "life membership" was voted down by decisive
maj ority by the Grand Lodge.
The ceremony of the presentation of the Signet Ring to the newly
installed Grand Master has a certain significance in this jurisdiction,
and in presenting the ring to Grand Master Morttgomery the retiring
Grand Master, J. W. Speer, said :
"M.". W.". Sir, there still remains for me as retiring Grand Master one solemn and yet pleasing duty to perform.
"In 1887 Brother Samuel Word, who had been honored by the
fraternity as Grand Master of this jurisdiction, on retiring from office
presented to his successor this signet ring, which I am informed is
made of pure gold taken from the mines of Alder Gulch. In presenting it he requested that it be worthily worn and in turn be handed
down to each successor with a similar injunction. The donor requested

kEl'ORT ON CORRESPONl'.>£N<;lt.

REP6R't ON CORRESPONDltNCE.

that on=ptes~.this ting the names of those woo had worn it worthily might be mentioned.
.
.
.
"It has been worthily . worn by the followmg 1llustr1ous Masons :
Past ·Grand Masters Word, Hathaway, Logan, AI!derson, Boardmar,
Hickman, Morris, Webster, Monteath, Mitls, Gould, Day, Pomeroy,
Barret, Brantly, Slade, Smith, Hepnet, Callaway, Frank, Macdonald,
Ktnyoa, Nolan and Carroll.
. .
· "As one of the wearers of this rmg I have endeavored to not tarnish its splendor.
.
h
h
''The giver has long since passeed to his last reward, but t e ec o
of the sentiments expressed by him will ever ring down the ages yet
to come.
· ·
·
"And now, my brother, I am transm1ttmg.
t h'1s. rHlg
to you t o wear
during your term of office. May you wear 1t with pleasur~ to you~­
self and honor to the fraternity; and while in your possession may it
show no taint or discoloration, and when bande? .by Yq? to your successor, may it. have acquired added lustre and bnlhancy.

"Let tis a•sk ounielves, my brethren, have we 'faithfully adheted to
lh•· Mllblime teachings of our fratemity? Have 1'/e so imprcmfil our
lltllr and so perforrneil our duties as to adorn ottr lives witb all the
I itaonic 'Virtu~? F)\ll!ry Mason has duties to perform, and as We bid
r 1•ewcll to the scenes and labors &nd ettjayment of tbe pa'st, let us,
M. llh new life, new vigor, greater possibilities, and greater determinat 1t111, prepare ourselves for that great and noble work of brotherly love,
'' Uef, and truth, and all those Masonic virtues that ennoble our minds,
thllN fitting us as living stones for that spiritual building, that house not
11111le with hands, eternal in the heavens.
"As we. have assembled to make good our professions, permit me
tu Impress upon you the responsibilities of your positions, for, as repre~·· ntatives of your Lodges, you owe a solemn duty to the Craft with
"" hlch nothing should be permitted to interfere. An matters brought
he fore you should be duly considered, and each representative ·should
111 nr his share of the responsibility of all legislation enacted. It is
tuu often the case that matters of great importance are left to be de' td~d by the few who are faithful; then, afterwards, criticism is made
111 regard to such legislation. It is therefore desirable that you should
he present at all times during our deliberations. You owe this duty to
1111 1,odges you represent, as well as to the Grand Lodge,
"It gives me great pleasure to inform you that peace and harmony
pttvnil within our borders; and that the increase in membership is
1. ry satisfactory, while the financial affairs of the Grand Lodge have
II• • 1•r heen in better condition. The Grand Treasuter has been more
thnn fair with the Grand Lodge, having paid the premium on his official
1.. 11111 himself, and allowed interest on daily balances at the rate oi
thrrr per cent, also donating his salary to the Nebraska Masonic Home,
11 l'C'Cord heretofore unknown in the history of the Gra11d Lodge."

102

Grand Master Montgomery responded as follows:
"It is with much pleasure and great pride that I accept th~s em~lem

of friendship; having been worthily wo;n by eac~ of the illustrious
brothers named and transmitted untarnished to his successor. And,
M:. W:. broth'er, I receive it from your hand ~ith the a~suran~e that
it possesses an added lustre because of your havmg wo:n 1t dut!ng the
year just passed. It shall be my endeavor to wear 1t worthtly and
transmit it untarnished to my successor."
The Report on Correspondence is by Past Grand Master H: S.
Hepner, in which California, 1910, is considere~.
The oration of Brother Charles A. Adams 1s commented upon favorably, and otherwise the proceedings of our Grand Lodge approved.
W~. M. Montgomery, Anaconda, elected Grand Master.
Cornelius Hedges, Jr., Helena, re-elected Grand Secretary.

NEBRASKA, 1912.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Fraternity
of Free and Accepted Masons of Nebraska met in Annual Communica;
tion in Freemason's Hall, Omaha, on Tuesday, June 4, A. L. 5912, A. .D.
1912, at half-past 9 o'clock in the morning, Grand Master Henry Gibbons presiding.
. .
After the opening, M:. w:. Daniel Wheeler, the old7st hvmg Past
Gr;nd Master of the Grand Lodge, was announced, admitted and welcomed by the Grand Master, and the honors of ·Masonry were extended
to him.
In opening his address, Grand Master Gibbons says :
"We are Masons only that we may be better men, one in heart, o!le
in pur ose, one in that love for each other that excels all love for !ts
unworfdli:ness. We are the fr_iends and defenders of J?Ure hotnes, strict
morality, upright, honorable hves, and boundless charity.

103

The Grand Master, in his report of his visit to the Nebraska
Home, states that he found the Home well managed, the
11· 1idl'nts contented and measurably happy; that their surroundings were
' , crything that could be desired, and that he was exceedingly gratified
lu observe on all his visits everything in excellent condition, leaving
11111hing that could be suggested by way of improvement.
lfc reports nine "Occasional Communications" of the Grand Lodi;t"
lnl' the purpose of placing corner-stones of important public buildings.
He reports the dedication of one Masonic Temple, and the con1lltution of the several Lodges that received charters at the pt"cceding
\ nnual Communication.
He refused several applications for dispensations to form new
l..>dges, and apparently granted no dispensations in the year for thi~
purpose.
~llmmic

The following are among the decisions rendered by the Grand
Master:
"A brother having been sus~nded for non-payment of dues for
mnrl' than five years, having im1d his indebtedness, died wblle action
•Ill his application for relnstaten'lettt was pertdlng, I decided that he
wns entitled to Masonic burial.

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCh.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"An objection having been made to the advancement of a candi·
date and afterwards withdrawn, the candidate should petition anew.
There were two cases presented. In the first case the objection was
not removed until over five years after it had been made. In the second case the objection was removed in a few days. Section 117 of the
law seems to cover both cases."
The assets of the Grand Lodge, as shown by the Grand Treasurer's
report, appear to be $71,087.03.
The Grand Custodian, Brother Robert Emmet French, makes his
report, from which we quote as follows:
"The past year has been one of most strenuous labor, not only in
promulgating the letter of the work, but a sin~~re desire and an .earnest
effort to impress upon the heart that the spmt of Masonry will, can,
and does make Masons 'wiser, better and happier'; that there is something for Masons to do, and th.at is ~o wh~t they came here to do. And
while the letter of the work, mcludmg Rite, Symbol, Glyph and Ceremony are all essentials and means to an end, but are not the end, by
any r:ieans. The end is the daily demonstration of the power of truth
that makes us freemen and Freemasons-a knowledge of that love that
casts out all fear, an understanding of the science of the .moral law
that will unveil the allegory and illustrate t~e true meanmg of the
symbol without which no Freemason can or will comprehend the three·
postula'tes of Ancient Craft Masonry, viz.: 'The Fatherhood of God,
the Brotherhood of Man, and the Immortality of the Soul.'
"In endeavoring to present these altruistic principles that make . the
burden lighter and the pathway brighter, neyer have I more fu.llY
realized my inability to feed the hungry soul m search of that which
seems to be lost, to lead the weary from darkn!'ss to light"Where passions no longer have full sway,
Where darkness dwelleth not, but all is day,
Where Love, Peace and Joy dwell supreme,
Where life is the real and not a dream.
"In the language of another learn~d f'.reem?-s9n, 'a broth~r that
has memorized and can repeat verbatim literal'lm. the esoteric. ~or­
tions of the degrees of Ancient Craft Masonry 1s not '\ suff1c1ent
reason for his appointment as a Grand Lecturer. or Custodian. Much
more is requisite to qualify him for such service to the Craft. He
should be an exemplar of the tenets, cardinal virtues, an~ living .Principles of Freemasonry; should know and be. able to expla1.n the h1~tory
and significance of all the f~rms, ce~emome,~, symbol~, iewels, signs,
words and legends of the ( Men-She1~-bund ) fr~te~mty; and should
be well versed in parliamentary Masonic law and Jurisprudence. Correct knowledge of the ritual is important ~nd essential to 15ood· work,
but a perfect comprehension of what the rttual symbohzes 1s far more
important.
"'The stalk the blade the tassel, and the husk are essential to the
ear of corn but are not the grain, which contains the germ of life .and
the life-sustaining substan.ce? S~ to .speak, the. ritual of F_reemasC!nry
is its material structure, its gramte, its ~edar, its cement, its precious
metals. Emblems and jewels-but no,t its s?ul. All. o.f the first are
essenti_al, but without the latter there 1s no hfe, no spmt of truth and

105

1111 K1tving grace. This being true, Ma.sonic lecturing means far more
tA1m te~chinf .the letter of the k{asqnic ritwal.' It means the perfect
iJlnjll'Usm¥ o hght as to the true sigmficance and the complete unfolding
Hf h cth1c~.,a rev.elat!~n, an inspiration, which brings soul development
lhrouah spmtual mtmt1on, a knowledge of the truth which reveals the
11 ret and re-discovers that which seems to have been lost.

"Masons will never find the lost Holy Grail
In rote ritualism that soon becomes stale.
But it's the spirit of truth that all should know
That remains ever-green and forever will grow."
At the evening session of the first day, the w:. Brother John F.
1
1 oucher delivered an oration upon the subject "Subjection and Improve11111nt," which was greatly appreciated by the Grand Lodge, whose thanks
trc tendered to the Grand Orator for his inspiring and eloquent
1 n.,rt, and he was requested to furnish a copy of the oration for publi1 Ilion in the Proceedings.
A very unusual occurrence took place in the evening session of the
11 und day, during the installation of the newly elected Grand Officers,
ht that Past Grand Master James R. Cain, Sr., was called upon to in1111 his son into the office of Grand Master.
The ceremony was very solemn and impressive, M:. w:. Brother

l ·,aln's address being as follows:

"There· are but few fathers who have been honored as I am to-day
hi being permitted to install. their own son as Grand Master of th~
• 11nc Gr.and Lodge over which they had the honor to preside at a
former time. I need not say to you, or to the members of this Grand
l~clge, that .the honor and privilege are both fully and duly appre1tated-that 1s apparent-but I do want to thank them all from the
bottom o.f a grateful and overflowing heart, for the honor conferred
1111 me thirty-one years ago, and again to-day in so honoring my oldest
111n, who when I was Grand Master of this Grand Jurisdiction was but
llttlt' more than a babe in his mother's arms.
'.'! need not caution or admonish you as to your duties and respon11fblhttes, as I feel sure you fully appreciate them all, and no doubt
will the more so as your term as Grand Master progresses· but for
~•>llr encouragement in the trying position you are about t~ assume
I wnnt here and now to assure you that you have my full confidence
111 your skill and ability to meet every demand made upon you, and
1~.. that of the several members of the Grand Lodge as has been
fully evidenc~d b:y _their. suffrages in selecting you as Grand Master
for the ensmng Masomc year, the most responsible and honorable
Daaltion known to our fraternity.
"Yo? are comparatively a young man, yet, in the short space of your
lilt, which seems but a span to. me, you have passed the ordeal of
lmlng el~cted an E~tered Apprentice, FeJlow Craft and Master Mason,
tld hav!ng fi!led with com.mendable cr~d1t all the more important places
anrl stations. m the s.ubordma~e Lodge m. which you hold your memberl~lp, and with adm1~able skill and fidelity the .various stations in the
l1t11nd Lodge to which you have been called, until to-day you stand
25

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

before me, ready and qualified to be installe_d as Grand Master of t~is
Grand Lodge. In the discharge of your ~uttes, as .such, I ha.v.e nc;i misgivings, for no one knows better t~an I your skill and ab1hty m t~e
work of the Craft, your clean, ·upright moral character, your zeal m
the cause of the Christian religion, your sterling worth as a man among
men and your fidelity to every trust reposed in you, and while during
the 'strenuous term of office the eyes of the fraternity will be upon
you, they will be friendly and charitable e;ves, ~nd y~JU may depend
upon it that every member of the fraternity. 'Yill, with outstretched
arms with one accord, be ever ready and willing to render you all
possihle assistance in the discharge of your many and possibly at times
complicated duties.
"I am proud of you, mv son, proud that you are my son, and proud
that I am your father."
After his installation, _the Grand Master responded, so we are told,
in an eloquent and feeling manner.
A Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Brother Charles J.
Phelps.
In the report, California, 1911, is considered. Reference is made
to Brother Burnett's oration, with the comment that the oration was
so well received that 5,000 copies were ordered printed for distribution· among the Lodges of the State.

Here are some of the remarks of the Grand Master upon this subject that will receive the most hearty approval of all good Masons:
"Our landmarks mean exactly what they say and nothing else, and
•'Onstituent Lodges must cease setting them aside or construing them to
1ult their own convenience.
"Too much care cannot be exercised in the selection of material
for our Lodges, and a candidate to be accepted ought to be clean and
healthy in mind and body, for it is only by the survival of the fittest
thnt we can attain the eminence so highly desired. .
"The first and most important qualification should be mental ability coupled with good moral character, and the presence of Masonic
virtues, and not the simple lack of vices. A man to be made a Mason
1hould be a man endowed with sufficient brain matter and education to
\lndcrstand and appreciate Masonry for its real worth.
"Men should be Masons at heart before they enter our portals,
for the Masonic Lodge is not a reform school: the Salvation Army does
excellent work along those lines. The mission of the Masonic Lodge
la to take good men and make them better, not to take bad men and
endeavor to make them good. In ballotting, the candidate should never
he given the benefit of the doubt. This benefit should be accorded the

106

James R. Cain, Jr., Stella, Grand Master.
Frances E. ·White, Omaha, Grand Secretary.'.
NEVADA, 1912.
In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution, the Fortyeighth Annual Grand Communication of the M.'. w: · Grand Lodge of
Nevada was commenced in the Masonic Temple, in the city of Reno,
on the second Tuesday of June (being the 11th day of the month),
A. L. 5912-Herman Davis, Grand Master, presiding.
· The Grand Master, in his address, states that while the Grim Reaper
did not, during the preceding year, invade the official circle of the
Grand Lodge, yet was busy among the Craftsmen of the various Lodges,
and he pays a just tribute to their memory.
He recounts the work of the preceding year, ;i.nd refers to the
present condition of the Craft in his jurisdiction. He is glad to observe
that a substantial increase in membership had been achieved, but
sounds a note of warning because of certain loose methods which he
believes are in vogue in certain Lodges of inquiring into the qualifications of those who seek admission to the fraternity, and feels, also, that
there is danger of drifting away from the ancient landmarks by· the
adoption of convenient and elastic interpretations of their meanings, and
absorbing customs and ideas from certain modern societies of mushroom growth, thereby manifesting tendencies absolutely foreign to the
spirit of Ancient Craft Masonry.

107

li<>d~e.

'It is perhaps difficult to explain just what your standard for Ma1onry consists of. I have found that an excellent rule is to allow no
1>nc to enter your Lodge unless he is such a man as you would prefer
your wife, or your daughter to associate with. It has been my experi••nce that you can measure every man's chairacter by the estimate he puts
Mpnn a good woman."

His observations upon the subject of "visitations" are exceedingly
1ound and pertinent, as may be judged from what he says, as follows :
"During my three years of service as a Grand Warden and Deputy
nrand Master, I accompanied the Grand Masters on most of their visitations, meeting annually with the brethren of nearly all the Lodges
within the State. It is with considerable pride, however, that I allude
to the fact that I am the First Grand Master to visit every one of the
twenty-five Lodges in this jurisdiction during his term of office. To
11ccomplish this, no less than six thousand miles were traveled by train,
automobile, stage, team, horseback, and on foot; but all the hardships
\lndcrgone were amply repaid by the welcome extended the Grand Master by the brethren of Nevada.
"The visit of a Grand Officer to a constituent Lodge means much,
not only to the Lodge, but the officer as well. In my rounds I have
been enabled to meet the brethren in their homes, in their fields, in
their workshops, in their stores, in their offices and in their lodge-rooms.
Thus an insight has been gained into many little perplexities relating
to the Lodge and the brethren constituting their membership, many of
which I have been able to assist in smoothing out. Advice, encouragement, and assistance have been given wherever necessary, and I have
1triven to awaken enthusiasm and interest in the Fraternity, endeavoring to induce the Craft to study the beauties and principles of Freemasonry, and apply them in their every-day life, in their homes, and
their business and social relations with their fellow-men, and doing all
within my power to strengthen the ties of brotherly love throughout the
State."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

108

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

From the report which he renders of visitations, it is a just conciusion tliat he pllt into practice all that he said upon this subject, because he apparently visited In his term of office every Lodge in the
jurisdiC:tion.
5eti6lls difficulty with orie of his subordinate Lodges, t~ wit:
Douglas Lodge No. 12, developed because of illegal methods in receiving members, and the Grand Master finally (all of his efforts to adjust
the difference proving futile) closed Douglas Lodge, took away the
charter and books of the 1,odge, which he delivered to the Grand Lodge,
with the request that such action be taken as in its judgment might
seem best.
Under the heading "documentary evidence" he has this to say of
the "identification card" in use in his jurisdiction :
"The identification card has cotne to stay. It has done more to
check dandestine Masonry, arid prevent suspension for non-payment of
dues, than any ~Ian tried heretofore. It is far better to refuse admission to ninety-rime Masons thart to adtnit one imposter.
"It may be inconvenient for the man who forgets to bring his receipts, but you will note that the same man rarely. forgets to wear some
Masonic badge."
!:le is opposed to the endorsement of the Washington Memorial
Association project. He believes that individual Masons may, if they
see fit, contribute to this memorial, but that the Grand Lodge . sh0utd
take no official action.
That there is no mistaking his position that the whisky seller has
no place. in Masonry, may be judged from his recommendation upon
this subject to the Grand Lodge:
"All Masons recognize the fact that the whisky-seller is a leech
and vampire who lives on the weakness of his fellow-man, who debauches mankind by plying them with intoxicating beverages, and the
more sumptuous and aristoctatic his saloon, the more deadly and dangerous the traffic, for more of the better class of men and boys he
secures, the more Masons and their sons is he liable to induce to commence frequenting bats and saloons, and to start down the road to
ruin.
''The every principle and aim of Masonry is to elevate the morals
of and. build up the entire community, while the every effect of a saloonkeeper's business is exactly to the contrary.
"It is time that the Masons of Nevada put themselves on record
before the .world as to where they stand, whether for or against the
saloon-keeper.
"Therefore, I recommend that the following resolution be adopted
and become the law of this jurisdiction :
·
''No petition fot the degrees, nor. an application for membership,
shall be received from a petson engaged wholly or in part in the business
of selling jnt?xlcati~g !iq~ors to be .u~ed as a beverage;. nor shall any
member within this J\lrisd1ctlon be eligible to hold any office in a Lodge

109

while ~o enga,ge~; nor shal! ;m:r member at the pr,esent time not en~

1a1ed m the business of selling hquors be permitted to hereafter engage
fn It, under penalty of expulsion."
.
The Grand Master's address throughout is a strong and virile document, filled .with searching and vigorous recommendations and sug.
1eatlons.
Concerning the trouble in Douglas Lodge No. 12, which resulted
In the arrest of its charter, the following from the report of the Jurisprudence Committee was, after full and earnest discussion, adopted:
"Section II. . I?. th.e matter. of Dougla~ .Lodge N ~- 12 receiving petitions from, and 1mt1atmg, passmg and ra1smg material residinir within
lhe Grand Jurisdiction of California, but within the close proximity of
Douglas L_odge, we find that for many years past Douglas Lodge has
btcn laboring under the impression that there was a dispensation from
the, 9rand Loc_lg_e.of California p~ri;t1itt~ng said Douglas Lodge to receive
11rt1t1ons and, m1t1ate p~rsons res1dmg m Alpine County, California, east
o>f the summit of t?e Sierra Nevada Mountains, and that under this view
of the facts the said Douglas Lodge has received petitions from elected
pRssed and raised some dozen, or. JT!ore, of the members of that Lodge;
that both the Lodge and the petitioners m all of these cases acted in
~· >od faith a~d without any wrongful purpose whatsoever. As a matter of fact said Douglas Lodge should have obtained a waiver of jurisd,lct?on i? all cases of ~pplication to that Lodge by material residing in
\,ahforn1a, but near said Lodge as heretofore described. No objection
however, has ever been made by the Grand Jurisdiction of California
and therefore, it .is the conclusion of this Committee that under th~
f11cts a?d. circumstances that the persons so petitioning and made Mawns within :P?~glas Lodge ;were duly and regu!arly made, and that the
members so 1mt1ated are entitled to all of the privileges of Masons within this Grand Jurisdiction.
"We rec?m.men4, ~ha~ i? ~he future, no pet.it~ons ~e received by
anY. If>dge w1thm this 1urisd1ct1on, of persons res1dmg without the jurl1dict1on, except the prope~ waiver of jurisdiction be obtained, and we
reco':11~end that the mcommg Gra_nd Master tak~ such proceedings, as,
In his JUd~ment, are deemed advisable to expl;un the situation to the
Grand Jurisdiction of the State of C;i.lifornia."
We apprehend that there will be no difficulty in arranging the
matter spoken of with the Grand Jurisdiction of California.
It has ever been true that California has only the kindliest feelings
toward Nevada, and it is undoubtedly true that there are certain mount•inous sections of California (for instance in Alpine County) east of
the Sierras that are more convenient for Masonic membership purposes
to certain Lodges in Nevada than to Lodges in California, and in cases
of this kind California would undoubtedly, upon req,uest, gladly waive
Jurisdiction.
It may be state<! that the charter of Douglas Lodge was restored
by the Grand Lodge at this Communication, and its members reinstated
to full standing, and its representative welcomed to the Grand Lodge.

110

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The election of Grand Officers resulted in the choice of Henry W.
Miles of Montezuma Lodge No. 30 as Grand Master and the re-election of Edward D. Vanderlieth of Carson Lodge No. 1 as Grand
Secretary.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Grand Secretary,
Edward D. Vanderlieth, who in his capacity as correspondent is known
as the Grand Commissioner of Review.
California, 1911, is fully and capably reviewed. Grand Master
Weller's address is referred to as a praiseworthy document. Grand
Orator Burnett's oration is mentioned in a highly complimentary manner, with quotation therefi:om, and the address of Brother Samuel M.
Shortridge in connection with the laying of the corner-stone of the new
Masonic Temple in San Francisco is spoken of as eloquent and beautiful, and several paragraphs are quoted for the benefit of the Nevada
brethren.

beat accomplish it. Stand shoulder to shoulder for the Fatherhood of
God and the Brotherhood of Man, and accept as our guiding principle
this truly Masonic motto that we saw gleaming in the sunshine on the
wall of a Nevada school room:

From Brother Vanderlieth's "conclusion" we make the following
quotation:
.
"This belief in the immortality of the soul runs through every part
of Masonry, a golden thread of hope, and finally each brother is laid
away 'until the last trump shall sound on the resurrection morn,' the
sprig of acacia is planted, and the brethren give the assurance that the
body shall spring again into newness of life and immortal beauty in
realms beyond the skies. Coupling a belief in God with a denial of
the immortal life is a farce, and should not be tolerated. An unequivocal belief and trust in God and in a resurrection to' a future life. we
assert, are fundamental principles upon which the institution of Freemasonry was founded and must forever rest. As early as 1600 a brother was obligated,-as yw will answ. before God at the Great and terrible
day of judgmnt yw keep secret and not revaile.' There is no place in
Masonr;r'.s ranks for one who scoffs at the Great Architect of the Universe. There should be none for one who scoffs at and refuses God's
best gift, the immortality of the soul and the resurrection to
future
life. With Brother Pike we are one that this belief is written in Masonry's decalogue : 'Thy soul is immortal. · Thou shalt do nothing to
degrade it.' And lastly, my brothers, it is especially significant ·that
Masonry should always keep before its pupils the importance of the ,formation of moral character and the individual good a brother can do.
We are like unto freestone as it comes out of the quarry, all the work
and labor in the Lodge, all the Craft's symbols, its ritual and ceremonies,
are but a means to polish and prepare the ashlar for 'the temple not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens.'
"Masonry, brethren, is not only to help us to bring our own individual lives into harmony with God's plan for our being but to teach us as
well that we should individually help another to the same end. There
is work for every one of us to do. It is glorious to carry our individual selves to God as material fit for His Temple, but far more glorious
to bring the lives of others as well, as stones for I-lis Temple eternal
in the heavens. Let us be up and doing·. Let each take a hand as builders of lives and bring symmetry and order out of chaos and confusion.
So is character best builded and individual effort is the power that will

a

111

" 'I am but one but I am one.
I can not do everything, but I can do something.
What I can do I ought to do;
What I ought to do, God helping me I will tlo.'"
NEW BRUNSWICK, 1911.
The Forty-fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons
of New Brunswick was held at Freemasons' Hall, in the city of St.
John, on Tuesday, the 22d day of August, A. D. 1911, A. L. 5911M.'. w:. Henry Seabury Bridges, Ph. D., in the East.

In opening his address the Grand Master says :
"It is my privilege and pleasure to report that peace and harmony
have prevailed throughout every part of this jurisdiction, and also that
there has been unusual activity in the Subordinate Lodges throughout
the Province during the past year. The reports of these Lodges will
show a substantial increase in our membership. But, my brethren, it
Is well to remember that it is not the number of those who wear the
lamb skin that has given to our fraternity the proud position that it has
always held in the world's estimation, but. rather the internal qualifications and exemplary conduct of each individual Mason. No anxiety
therefore to increase the membership of our Lodge should ever lead us
to permit those to join our ranks who do not maintain that high moral
standing which should always characterize good Masons. If we wish to
preserve the high standing of our noble fraternity, we must never lose ·
sight of that well known maxim, 'Guard well the outer door.'"
His address is a business-like statement of his activities during
the year.
He dwells particularly upon the great pleasure he received from
his visitations to the subordinate Lodges of the jurisdiction.
He mentions, also, his acceptance of the cordial invitation extended
by the Grand Master of the District of Columbia to be present with
him on the occasion of the celebration of the lOOth anniversary of the
Grand Lodge in the city of Washington, and of the great pleasure which
the acceptance of that invitation gave him.
From the reports of the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary the
information is afforded that the finances of the Grand Lodge are in a
sound condition, and that there was, during the year, a substantial
increase of membership, the total membership at this Communication
being 3,061.
T he Committee on Foreign Relations made the following report,
which was apparently adopted.

ns

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"The negotiation, movement, action, or whatever it may be termed,
between the Freemasons of France as represented by the Grand Orient
and those of Germany has not, your Committee find, made sufficient
progress to justify the declaration that the breach which has for a long
time existed between the members of the Craft in the two countries has
been healed, although some progress has been made in some of the
Grand Lodges of Germany towards removing the impediments which
stand in the way of a more satisfactory relationship than now exists.
The difficulties appear to have begun in 1871. out of the Franco-Prussion war, or rather out of the events or circumstances connected with that
war, and they were extended or perpetuated by the action of the Grand
Orient of. France in regard to what is known among the Fraternity as a
removal of one of the ancient landmarks, the extinction of one of the
Great Lights, and which action of the Grand Orient of F rance has mater.ially affected the attitude towards it of, practically, the whole Craft in
America as well as in some parts of Europe, notably those in which the
English language is used.
"The progress of time, the constantly improving relationship between
the people of France and of Germany have disposed a great many of the
German Masons to endeavor to put an end to the unsatisfactory relationship between the Craft in the two countries, and some of the German
Grand Lodges have so declared themselves; but there is not the unanimity
of feeling in the matter which Brother Kruger anticipated when he made
his appeal to us. Indeed the whole matter has created a great deal of
feeling among the Freemasons of Germany. So apparently, prudence
and care will be most necessary in the endeavor to bring about a final
settlement. Your Committee share in the hopes that this whole business will eventually be amicably settled, and that the Grand Orient of
France will so far recollnize the strong desire of the Craft in many
countries for a restoration of harmony and a cessation of the troubles
·
which have been created by the action referred to above.
"Your committee remind Grand Lodge that there are in France two
supreme authorities over the Craft Lodges, and that these two bodies
are in harmonious relations with each other. The doctrine of exclusive
Jurisdiction does not hold in that country to the extent to which it 'is
held in America. One of these bodies is the Grand Orient ; the other. is
the Grand Lodge of France which has under its control over one hundred and twenty Lodges, fifty of which are in Paris and its suburbs.
Your Committee can see no verr strong reason against friendly relatidnship and fellowship with this Grand Lodge. It often happens that a
member of the Craft from this Province seeks, when in France, to visit
the fraternity there. Our relations or want of them with the Grand
Orient practically prevents this. The brother does not seek the Grand
Lodge of France, for he knows nothing of it. Yet it is a le~itimate authority, admitted to be so, by the Grand Orient, and its certificates and balustres are issued in the name of the Grand Architect of the Universe;
and its membership is a satisfactory one. The Committee is of the opinion that the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick might open negotiations
with it looking for an interchange of representatives, pending the final
settlement of all the difficulties which now exist between the Grand
Orient of France and the governing bodies of the Craft elsewhere; and
they so recommend."
R:. w:. Henry S. Bridges, St. John, re-elected Grand ·Master.
R:. w:. J . Twining Hartt, St. John, re-elected Grand Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE, 1912.
A Special Communication of the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of the
Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of New Hampshire was held in the city of Portsmouth, on
fhursday, June 22, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911, for the purpose of participating in the celebration of the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniveraary of St. John's Lodge No. I-Charles H. Wiggin, M:. w:. Grand
Master, presiding.
The celebration of the one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary
of St. John's Lodge No. 1 was indeed a notable event, participated in
by a large number of the eminent Masons of New Hampshire.
The celebration extended over the afternoon and evening of June
22d, the principal literary feature of the afternoon being a historical
address by the M:. w:. Frederick W . Sawyer. It was characterized
by all as a remarkably fine production, and while necessarily exhaustive
in its scope, it was neverthele$S followed very closely, so we are told,
by the immense audience who heard it.
A pleasing incident of the address was the announcement made by
M:. W:. Brother Sawyer, that of the Grand Officers who were present and participating in the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of St.
John's Lodge No. 1, held in 1886, eleven were on the platform, and as
their names were called they in turn arose, and received hearty greetings from all present.
At the evening celebration an elaborate program was rendered,
in which there were a number of addresses by distinguished Masons,
and at the conclusion of the day it was the universal opinion that the
anniversary celebration was most successful and that the Portsmouth
brethren were entitled to great praise for their splendid management
of the affair, and all agreed that "it was a grand affair, grandly observed."
Another Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held on
July 24, 1911, for the purpose of attending the Centennial Annlnrsary
of Humane Lodge No. 21, and also of dedicating their new Masonic
Temple.
Still another Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held
on November 7, 1911, for the purpose of cjedicating the Hall of Cube
Lodge No. 10.
The Fifty-third Semi-Annual Communication of the M:. w: ·
Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of New Hamphsire was held at Freemasons' Hall, in the city of Manchester, on Wednesday, December
27, A. L. 5911, A. D. 1911.
The first degree of importance is attached in New Hampshire to
the Semi-Annual Communication, which is held each year on St. John

112

114

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the Evangelist's Day, for the purpose of exemplifying the "work," and
the Entered Apprentice, Fellowcraft and Master Mason's degrees were
exemplified upon this occasion by three different Lodges selected from
the Grand Jurisdiction, and at the conclusion of the work the chosen ·
Lbdges were highly complimented upon their proficiency, after which
the Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.
The one hundred and twenty-third Annual Communication of the
M:. w:. Grand Lodge of the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New Hampshire was held
at Freemasons' Hall, in the city of Concord, on Wednesday, May 15,
A. L. 5912, A. D. 1912.
The Grand Master, in his annual address, after a few brief words
of introduction, devotes considerable space to the subdivision "Necrology,'' in which he fittingly refers to the lives and characters of certain members of the fraternity who had in the preceding year been
called to their reward.
Concerning conditions of peace and harmony within the jurisdlc- •
tions, he has this to say :
"Masonically the year has been void of strife, contention or serious
infraction of our regulations. Peace and fraternal good-will, to the best
of my knowledge, prevail in all Lodges; none of the ancient landmarks
of the Craft have bee·n dimmed or obliterated; numerically we are
stronger by one hundred and twenty-two than one year ago. I do not
feel that there has been diminution of interest or failure to investigate
carefully the character, habits and Masonic worth of those who have
sought admission to our fraternity."
Among his decisions we find the following:
"Question-A petitioner, after receiving a clear ballot and before
the conferring of any degrees, was objected to by a member of the
Lodge to the Master privately. Afterwards the objections were withdrawn. Will another ballot be necessary or can the petitioner receive
his de~rees at once provided he returns his fee and still wishes to
enter?'
"Answer-See Grand Constitution, page j5, Article XIV, section
117. The withdrawal of the objections cannot be considered any more
than the withdrawal of a negative ballot cast in open lodge. The petitioner stands rejected."
This, as we know, is not the rule in California. If the objection is
withdrawn within sixty days, the case proceeds as if no objection had
been made, and it is only in cases where the objection is not withdrawn
in sixty days that it has the effect of a blackball.
Concerning the celebration of the one hundred and seventy-fifth
anniversary of St. John's Lodge No. 1, the Grand Master's remarks are
in part as follows :
. "Accompanied by all the Grand Lodge officers, elected and appointed,
with three exceptions, and many of the M:.
Past Grand Masters, I attended the celebration of the one hundred and seventy-fifth

w:.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE:

115

anniversary of St. John's Lodge, No. 1, Thursday, June 22, A. D.,
1911. Many pleasant Masonic events have marked my twelve months'
term of office; none, however, have been any more enjoyed, interspersed
with pleasure, or gratifying, than participating on the one hundred and
1eventy-fifth anniversary of St. John's Lodge, No. 1.
"This Grand Jurisdiction is much indebted to this grand old Lodge
Her altar is the birthplace of Freemasonry in New Hampshire. Of the
original five members who, on July 8, 1789, formed this Grand Lodge,
four were members of St. John's. It was organized in and held its
meeting for .many years in this ancient Lodge room. It was eminently
fitting and a just honor, that one of her Past Master, in the person of
the beloved and revered General John Sullivan, should have been
aelected form her membership as our first Grand Master. Her records
bear testimony to many deeds of charity, hospitality and brotherly love,
nnd this one hundred and seventy-fifth anniversary was a worthy commemoration of those years of Masonic activity."
Concerning the Semi-Annual Communication devoted to an exemplification of the "work," the Grand Master makes this remark :
"It is more than fifty years since, by special amendment to the
Grand Constitution, these semi-annual communications on the artniversary of St. John, the Evangelist, were inaugurated, and the benefits to
be derived from them, instructively and fraternally, are inestimable."
The Grand Master visited the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania upon
the occasion of the celebration by that Grand Jurisdiction of the one
hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of the Grand Lodge, and he
was very greatly impressed with the tremendous scope of the Masonic
Home establishment, which is in process of creation at Elizabethtown,
Pa., where the corner-stone of the Grand Lodge Hall of the Masonic
H ome was laid at this time in the presence of an assemblage estimated
at over 10,0CX>.
The Home, when completed, will be the most extensive and elaborate institution of its kind in the world, and it is expected that the
good which it will accomplish will be incalculable.
Grand Master Wiggin refers to their own Masonic Home in New
Hampshire, and believes that it is fulfilling the functions of its creation
in a manner that is highly acceptable to the Craft.
Full and complete reports are made by the various District Deputy
Grand Masters, and from ' these reports one may judge that the fraternity in the Granite State is in a most sound and healthy condition.
The Special Committee on the Washington Masonic Memorial Association made a full report, and its recommendation, pledging New
Hampshire to the support of the project, was adopted as follows:
"Your committee, therefore, recommends that the Grand Lodge of
New Hampshire give the Washington Masonic Memorial Association
its endorsement, and it also recommends that the sum of one hundred
dollars be appropriated out of the general fund of the Grand Lodge to
be paid to this association as New Hampshire's share of the expenses
of the annual meetings that have been held, and that this Grand Lodge

116

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
117

choose one of its members annually by ballot to be an active member
for one year of said association, until otherwise ordered." '

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The following report of the Committee on Jurisprudence concerning
recognition of certain foreign Grand Lodges was adopted :
"The Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom the requ.est of the Gran
Logia Soberana de Puerto Rico of Free and Accepted Masons for fraternal relations and the appointment of representatives ha~ been referred
respectively report that they have considered the matter carefully and
recommend that fraternal recognition be given by this Grand Lodge
to the said Gran Logia Soberana de Puerto Rico of Free and Accepted
Masons, and that an exchange of representatives be hereby granted.'~

NEW J~RSEY, 1912.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of
Free and Accepted Masons for the State of New Jersey met in Annual
Comtnunlcatlort at Masonic Hall, in the city of Trenton, on Wednesday and Thursday, April li' and 18, A. b. 1912, A. L. 5912, commencing
W edttesday, the 17th inst.-Le!lie A. Burritt, Grand Master, presiding.
Out of the 191 Lodges in the Grand Jurisdiction, 182 were represented, leaving only nine unrepresented, certainly an excellent showing.
The Grartd Master's address is a straightforward business document, recounting briefly his official acts during the year, especial men- ~
tion being made by him of what he considered the most notable event
in the year in the celebration of the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary
of St. John's Lodge No. 1, Newark, N. J.
He speaks also of the honor which came .to him in laying two
corner-stones of Masonic edifices, both in Jersey City-the one that of
the so-called Masonic Temple and the other of the new home of Bergen
Lodge No. 47.

From the report of the Committee on Returns we learn that the
total membership of the Grand Jurisdiction at this time is 10,480, showing an increase over the preceding year of 122.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Master
and present Grand Secretary R.". W:. Harry A. Cheney. That he
does his work well, and with enthusiasm, may be judged from a few
words taken as follows from his "introduction" :
"So, the work done and herewith submitted has brought happiness
and satisfaction. I only wish that some of the microbes of love and
enthusiasm circulating in me could by some process be transferred to
all of you. I have them to spare, and, besides, the kind with which I
am infected are extremely prolific. They are truly microbes worth
having, and I strongly recommend them.
"In general, the appended reviews all tell the same story. There
.
has been healthy growth and marked prosperity almost everywhere.
And to me this is neither strange nor surprising. With the best men of
the different states and countries members of our fraternity, zealously
worki1tg for the advancement of its interests and in d"ily life practicing
its teachings, any other outcome is unthinkable.
"The past is honorable.
"The present is glorious.
"The future is what we make it."
In his report, California, 1911, receives courteous consideration. He
speaks of the tremendous numerical growth of the California jurisdiction and refers particularly to the immense sums of money expended
by the several Boards of Relief in California ; to the work of the Grand
Lecturer, and the large number of Lodges of Instruction conducted by
him ; and ge1terally to the extreme activity in carrying forward the
good work of Masonry within the State.
Charles H. Wiggin, Concord, re-elected Grand Master.
Harry ·M. Cheney, Concord, re-elected Grand Secretary.

Two decisions on Masonic law were rendered in the year, one of
which was as follows ·:
"Where the ballot has been spread on the petition of a candidate,
and the result has been announced in the south and west, can the Master
destroy the ballot if but one black ball or cube appear?
.
"Ruled-That where the ballot has been spread for the, election or
rejection of a petitioner, and the result has been announced in the south
and west or m the south only, the Master cannot destroy the ballot,
but must' declare the petitioner elected or rejected as the ballot may
decide."
New Jersey still appears to' hold the record, so far as the question
of "visible physical defects" are concerned. Ninety-seven cases of this
chatacter were submitted to the Grand Master, and each received his
closest scrutiny ; he granted ptrmlssion to receive petitions in 62 cases ;
he refused permission in 29 cases, and he states that there are 6 cases
still pending.
That certainly Is "going some" in the Depattment of "v. p. d."
There is one paragraph in the "conclusion" of the Grand Master's
address that, while it is of possibly no particular importance, is difficult to understand. He states that one day of every seven has been
devoted to "executive matters," entailing a weekly journey of over
t,200 miles, or a total of more than 62,000 miles during the year. This,
like "v. p. d.," is difficult to figure out.
From the Grand Secretary's report we learn that the membership
on January 1, 1912, was 34,855, a net gain over the preceding year of
1,761.
. .
In the morning session of the first day of the Communication the
Grand Lodge was honoted with the presence of distinguished visitors

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

from the neighboring States of Delaware and Pennsylvania. The visitors were received and welcomed by the M.'. W.'. Grand Master and
were accorded the Grand Honors.
The M.". w:. Brother Enoch Moore, Grand Master of Delaware,
was called upon by the Grand Master for remarks. He addressed the
Grand, Lodge in an entertaining manner, and then Past Grand Master ,
L. I. Handy of Delaware made a witty and eloquent address, which
won the applause and approval of his audience.
R." · W: · Brother Samuel Wray of the Grand Jurisdiction of
P _ennsylvania also favored the Grand Lodge with a few remarks of a
pleasing nature.
·
From the report of the Committee on Masonic Home we obtain
the information that there are now 86 residents in the Home, and that
this great institution is doing well the work laid out for it, and has
the cordial support and approval of the Grand Lodge.
The proposition of securing a new Grand Lodge sit_e upon which
to erect a new Temple did not appear to receive much support among
the subordinate Lodges.
At the annual election Richard C. Woodward of Lodge No. 28,
Trenton, was chosen Grand Master and Benjamin F. Wakefield of
Lodge No. 48, Trenton, re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by the learned reviewer,
W. ·. Brother Robert A. Shirrefs.
California, 1911, is considered.
Grand Master Weller's address is referred to as "excellent," and
a liberal quotation therefrom made. The extensive work of our Masonic Homes is taken as an evidence of interest in the beneficiaries of
these institutions. The activities of the Boards of Relief are also
noticed.
Complimentary allusion . is made to the oration of w:. Brother
Albert G. Burnett, Grand Orator, and from his oration one paragraph
is quoted "instead," as the reviewer states, "of the pages that deserve
reproduction."
Richard C. Woodward, Trenton, Grand Master.
Benjamin F . Wakefield, Trenton, Grand Secretary.

faithful brethren have annually met to renew their Masonic acquaintances in the Grand Lodge in the Territory of New Mexico and legislate
for their brethren, and we can now congratulate ourselves that this is
to be our last Annual Communication of our Grand Lodge under a terrilorial form of government. When our beloved Territory, our adopted
home, shall soon take on the garb of statehood, let us trust that the les1ons taught in our Masonic lectures will fit our Craft to fulfill the duties
of free American citizenship and aid to build a ship of state that will
"merit the approval of our prosperity. The spiritual and moral upbuildlni of the community is as necessary to its material welfare as its financial and industrial progress. Our fraternity has always been the advovnte of clean and pure morals, just and equa:l laws in the State, religious
toleration and the suppression of crime. With these essential teachings as a foundation, the members of our Craft can assume and will
take a leading part in the advancement of the interests of our new State,
and as time runs on, may we earnestly look forward to a new era in our
history."

118

119

Reference is made by him in a fitting manner to the death within
the year of two of the Past Grand Masters of the jurisdiction, M.".
Brother A. H. Harllee of Silver City, who occupied the Grand East in
1901-2, and Past Grand Master Cornelius Bennett, the Senior Past
nrand Master, who served the jurisdiction in 1884-5.
Dispensations were granted by the Grand Master for three new
1,odges, one at Sant11 Rita, one at Springer and one at Willard.
Three corner-stone ceremonies took place within the year, one to
lay the corner-stone of the school building at Silver City, one to place
the corner-stone of the Masonic Temple at Los Cruces, and the other
to lay the corner-stone of the Scottish Rite Cathedral at Santa Fe.

w:.

Concerning the Kit Carson Home, the Grand Master makes the
following report :
"In accordance with the action of your body at its last Annual
Communication, the final payment upon the purchase of the Kit Carson
I Jome property was made in January, 1911, and the title to the property is now vested in this Grand Lodge. I recommend that the Committee on Masonic Home consider the propriety of including some of our
brethren to enter this home, and enjoy its comforts and purposes, without mentioning here their names."

NEW MEXICO, 1911.
The Thirty-fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge o~
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of New Mexico was held in the
hall of Temple Lodge No. 6, in the city of Albuquerque, on Monday,
October 16, 1911-Edward L. Medler, Grand Master, presiding.

From the Grand Secretary's report we learn that the total membership of the jurisdiction at this time is 2,799, a net gain for the
year of 208.
At the evening session of the first day, Brother Joseph A. Miller, a
member of Temple . Lodge No. 6, delivered a scholarly and eloquent
address, which, by order of the Grand Lodge, is printed in full . in the
Proceedings.

The Grand Master commences his annual address as follows :
"Brethren of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico :
"Again we assemble in regular Annual Communication to review
the state of our Craft under our charge. For thirty-four years our

The following report was made by the Committee on Masonic Home
site:
"Your Committee on Masonic Home Site have made to them an
exceptionally flattering offer of land in the Pecos Valley, which offer

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEN_C E.

REPORT / ON CORN.ESP.ONDENCE.

comes through the generosity of Past Grand Master Poe and is characteristic of his consistent devotion to the Craft, but after careful consideration of the conditions now existing in this Jurisdiction we feel that
any it!!perative necessity of a Masonic Home doe& not at present exist.
"The experience in this State of a Fraternal organization made
alon~ these same lines has proved a failure from a lack of inmates, besides we feel that to tie up all our charity funds in any investment of
this nature would i;>revent the dispensing of those emergent charity
cases that frequently arise and must be immediately handled.
·
"In view of these considerations ~our committee recommeud that
the consideration of a Masonic Home Site be postponed until such time
as the necessity for the same exists."

t•lect, His Ex.cellency the Right Honorable Lord Chelmsford and in
accordance with that invitation assumed the East and install~d Lord
l'hl'lmsford as Grand Master.
.

120

After considerable discussion, the following substitute for the report
of the committee above set forth was adopted :
"Tha* Past Grand Master John W. Poe be requested by this Grand
..,uuge to extend his generr•1s offer six months longer and that t'ie com
mittee be continued and the newly elected Grand Master and Grand
Warden be added to the committee and that this Committee on Masonic
Home Site shall have full power to act."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Chairman of
the Committee, Past Grand Master James H. Wroth.
The report is exhaustive and comprehensive and closes with a conclusion devoted to a discussion of the relative claims to regularity and
legitimacy of Grand Lodges descended, on the one hand, from the
Mother Grand Lodge of England, and, on the other, from certain
Scottish Rite Sttprerne Councils, from which he deduces the conclusion
that the descendants of the Mother Grand Lodge have not exclusive
claim to legitimacy.
In this report, California, 1910, is fully considered. The oration of
Brother Charles A. Adams is highly commended, as is also the report
of the Special Committee on the Status of Masonry in the Philippine
Islands.
Brother Wroth's report, in its entirety, is extremely readable and
interesting.
William B. Walton, Silver City, Grand Master.
Alpheus A. Keen, Albuquerque, re-elected Grand Secretary.
NEW SOUTH WALES, 1911.

A Special Communication was held in the Town Hall, Sydney, on
Tuesday, the 23d day of August, 1910, when the Grand Lodge was
opened in Ample Form by Grand Master M.". w:. Brother H. Montgomerie-Hamilton.
A number of distinguished visitors were in attendance. They were
duly announced, received in proper form, and conducted to the dais.
Sir Thomas Gibson Carmichael (Grand Master of Victoria) was
invited to take the chair and install the M.". W .". the Grand Master-

l~l

The newly installed Grand Master proceeded to invest the remain.t111r Grand Lodge officers for the ensuing year.

The ins.tailing Grand Master then deliveted an address, followed by
lht' newly mstalled Grand Master, in which, among other thing h
~

MM :

e

. "In the first place we are the inheritors of an ancient a-nd glorious
H1tnal, and we must take care that neither by carelessness nor thoughtIeuness do we depart from that which has been handed down to us
I nrnv say_ f~Jr myself that on the few occasions when I have been privi~
lt'l(cd to VISlt some of the Lodges in this Constitution I have b
h
·;,ruck by th~ admirable way in which the proceedings' of the L;d;e':~~d
I c ceremonies have been conducted. But I think it cannot be too often
Impressed upon us that there is always need for watchfulness in these
nmtt~rs, and so I. hope that you brethren will forgive me for alludin
:~r~'~1s matter on the first occasion I have addressed you as Grand Mas~
l
1

"And lastly, br~thren, J would allude to the fact that the root prin-

P1e of our Craft is charity, not only in the broad sense as we know

It -Love a~?ngst the brethren, but in the narrower sense of alms- ivl111r, and g1vmg help to those who are in want of it. I hope breth~en
rhnt m;v year of office may be marked by a freedom from anythin a _
proachml? to a breach of the Golden rule of Charity and brother! ~ p
nn<I that brotherly love may during this ensuing year abound
y ove.
I 11111 s~r!! you will all agree in this; tha t every man has a ri~h~~! ht~
own op1111on, and that, therefore. however strongly we may hold our 0 intnns, we must always recognize that those who may d"ff f P
"" have a n equa I rig
· ht to t he1r
· opm1on.
· .
1 er
rom
Surely that fact ought
to teach
II~ that we ought to be long-sufferii:iiz toward~ .tho~e who differ from
II~. and ought to help us to prevent difference rising 1n th d"
·
f
th
·
e 1scuss1on
ose t h"mgs t hat we consider
to be of profit to the Craft
A d o
hrrthren I hooe that I may approach the work that we ha e. t nd ~o
the Craft
·
· that spirit,
. . and I hope
v that
o othe
m
. . duri ng th e ensmng
year m
1n111e spmt may pervade the deliberations that we may h
· G
I
1,oclge during the ensuing year."
·
ave m ranc

~hhe dGra.n'.1 Master's add.ress was followed by remarks from the disII11gu1s e VISltors, after which the Grand Lodge was dosed in Ample
Form.
A Quarterly Communication was held in Masonic Hall Sydn
nn Wednesday, September 14, 1910, when the Grand Lodge w~s open~
In Ample Form by the Grand Master, M.". w:. Brother His Excellency Lord Chelmsford.
Routine business was transacted at this time, with a report of the
lloard of General Purposes covering the transaction of the recedin

~~

2~

p

g

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The charitable disbursements of this Grand Jurisdiction are la.rge,
considering the membership, and the system of providing fo_r t.he. dependent ones is one of the best in use by any of t?e Grand Junsd1ct10n~.
The total relief disbursements reported at this Quarterly Commumcation for the preceding three months amounted to about $2,500, which
would make an average of something like $10,000 yearly.
A Quarterly Communication was held in Masonic Hall, ~ydney,
on December 14, 1910, presided over by the Grand Master (M. · W." ·
Brother His Excellency Lord Chelmsford).
In opening his address at this Communication the Grand Master
refers as follows to the death of Admiral Sir Harry Rawson, who was
for a number of years Grand Master of the Jurisdiction of New South
Wales and who was greatly beloved.
The report of the Grand Inspector of Workings shows an active
interest in the work of Masonry throughout the jurisdiction, and from
it we learn that the Lodges are performing well their duties.
The regular Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge was
held in the Masonic Hall, Sydney, on Wednesday, the 8th day of March,
His Excellency Lord Chelmsford, Grand Master, presiding.
Upon the recommendation of the Grand Master, t?e Board of General Purposes made the following recommendations, which were adopted:
"!. That every country Lodge s~o1:1ld be vi~ited at least once. in
every four years. Omitting Lodges w1th111 easy _distance of Sydney ~n~
the Newcastle centre, 118 Lodges are located 111 O?!". State. To v1s1t
each Lodge, traveling under the most favorable cof!d1t1ons, an? all meetings being arranged to suit the 9~an1 Lodge Officers, the time n~ces­
sary for making the complete v1s1tat10n would be upwards o.f. th1_rtt'six weeks.· In the opinion .of the Board .. the _best way. to make v1s1tat1ons
practicable would he to d1v1de the Lodl{es 111to section~, and they suggest that such Lodges be d!vided into Thirt~-two sections, eac.h, group
consisting of from one to six Lodges ; the time necessary to v1s1t ~ach
group, with the exception of Broken Hill, would be from five to eight
days.
,
"2. The Board recommends the adoption of the Grand Masters
·suggestion that, in these visitations, Grand Lodge should be represented
by at least one R.'. w:. Brother.
.
"3. The Board also r~commend th~t the tr.aveling expenses ~f
these brethren should be paid. They desire to po1!1t out that the estimated cost of visiting thirty-two groups, on the basis. o.f four. ~epre~en­
tatives of Grand Lodge, would be about £1000, which, d1v1ded 111to
four ears, would be abo~t £~59 p_er annum; personal expenses of
GranJ Lod11·e Officers mak111g v1S1tat1ons, and to be d~frayed by themselves would range from !Ss. to 20s. per day, and 111 the aggregate
would amount to nearly as much as the cost to Grand Lodge. .
"4. The Board concur in the Grand Master's recommendation. that
if there is no R.', W.'. Brother of present Grand Lo?ge rank available
• Past R.'. w:. Brother should be delegated, and po1,nt out that unless
1
the . ~ervices of Past Grand Lo?ge. OfficC';rs are available and can be
obtained, the proposed system 111 its entirety cannot be complete, as

REPOR·T ON CORRESPONDENCE.

)28

u11der the most favor:ible circumstances it. cannot be expect~d that presont Grand Lodge Officers can afford to gave more than fourteen or fiftoen days in the year for country visitations, and the number of sectiopal
.-l1itations. each year woiild be eigp~; ang 1 jn additior to this, Gran4
(.odge Officers would be called upon to carry out the necessary duties
•>f dedicating new Lodges, consecrating Temples natl visiting metropoli11111 and sub1Jrban Lodges."
The work performed by our Grand Lecturer in California covers
the ground, only vastly more effectually in our opinion, than the plan
above set forth for adoption in the Jurisdiction of New South Wales.
At this Communication the Grand Master announced that he was
11hcmt to leave for a visit to England, and that he would not be present
lit the next Quarterly Communication, which in due time was held on
lhe 14th of June at the Masonic Hall, in Sydney, at which various reports
were rendered. The Grand Treasurer's report showed that the Fund of
Benevolence had increased during the year by about £1,500 and the Genrral Purposes Fund £1,600, and that the membership of the jurisdiction
now approximated 15,ro:l.
At this Communication Grand Officers were elected, His Excellency
l,ord Chelmsford being re-elected Grand Master.
There is an excellent Report on Correspondence by a committee, of
which Brother L. Whitfield is chairman.
California, 1911, is fraternally considered, the reviewer referring
11ppreciatively to the statement of the California correspondent made in
one of his reports that New South Wales, in the treatment of those
having claims upon its charitable consideration, is exceedingly generous.
I le speaks of the munificence of our Grand Treasurer, V.". W:. Brother
Edward Coleman, i11 building and presenting to the Home a fully
equipped hospital, costing perhaps in the neighborhood of $40,000.
His Excellency the Right Honorable Lord Chelmsford, Sydney,
(~rand Master.
Arthur H. Bray, Sydney, Grand Secretary.
NEW YORK, 1912.
Number of Lodges, 808.
Number of Masons, 173,713.
The One Hundred and Thirty-first Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York
was opened in the Gra.nd Lodge room, Masonic Hall, city of New York;
on the afternoon of May 7, A. D. 1912, A. L. 5912, at 2 o'clock-M.". w:.
Robert Judson Kenworthy, Grand Master, presiding.
·
In the introductory part of his annual address the Grand Master
refers to the apparent indifference to Masonry of such a large percentage
of the membership,

124

REPORT ON · CORRESPONDENCE. ·

This indifference, however, in our opinion, is more apparent than
real; because even among the vast numbers of Masons .who do not
attend Lodge frequently, there nevertheless is a very warm· regard for
the institution and a genuine interest in its welfare and progress, and
the failure to manifest a more open interest is frequently the result of
other duties which demand such a tribute of time. However, the Grand
Master's remarks upon this subject are of interest, and are as follows:
"It seems to me we ought to reach out in earnest for that seventyfive per cent. inactive part of our membership. Among them ar~ nui;ierous influential worth-while men. The roster of the Craft will disclose the name~ of many prominent in all walks of life, who have
attained honor and distinction in their respective callings; men who
delight in association with their fellow-citizens and are sought ?n every
notable public occasion; yet th~ Craft leaves them alone, to 4nf~ from
its influence-and so the prestige of many a strong personality is lost
to us. In the face of such conditions can we honestly claim our Fraternity is 'progressing' numerically? I feel it is worth our thought to
try and meet this situation, and I urge you men of today-take the subject home with you, study its possibilities. When .we ha".e lea.med how
to cement the membership we already have and mfuse mto 1t the red
blood of interest, then will Masonry truly come into its own."
The Grand Master fittingly refers to "The Fraternal Dead," enumerating the list of those prominent in the jurisdiction who, within the year
preceding, had been called to their reward.
·
The Grand Master enumerates the public ceremonies conducted in
the year by the Grand Lodge, making a special report of the dedication
of the Daniel D. Tompkins Memorial Chapel at the Masonic Home at
Utica, N. Y., on Sunday, June 25, 1911.
The occasion certainly was an inspiring one, and the addresses were
of a high order.
Governor Tompkins was one of the historical characters of the
early portion of the last century, and some of the remarks of the
Grand Master concerning Governor Tompkins will no doubt b<; of
general interest, and we, therefore, quote a portion of the Grand Master's address, as follows:
"In 1812 Governor Tompkins prorogued the Legislature for the
first time in the history of the State as a last resort against the favorable reception of numerous petitions f?r the incorporatio,n of sun~ry
banking companies, accompanied .by the influence ?f corruption and .bribery, and projecting a system "".h1ch threaten~d evil to the community. .
"At this time the declaration of war with England was made and
the Govern0r was charged with the additional duties of State and national defense without the aid of a cordial Legislature.
'He organized the militia, expending his large means in adyan~ing
money in all directions to ena?!e the war to be prosecuted; mam~amed
by his personal means the M1htar:y Academy at West Pomt, paid for
recruiting in Connecticut, and sustained t~e workmen wh? .IT!anufactured
arms at Springfield, Massachusetts ; equipped 40,000 m1htia and sent
them to the defense of Plattsburg, Sacketts Harbor, Buffalo, and other

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

,. 125

points, and sustained the credit of the United States government with
hb own private funds at a time when the banks of New York refused
to loan to the government on its treasury notes without his personal
endorsement.
"President Madison held Governor Tompkins in such high esteem
that he tendered him the portfolio of Secretary of State, which was
declined by Governor Tompkins with the explanation on his part that
he could serve his country better as Governor of the State of New York
than as a member of the President's Cabinet. His resulting popularity
la testified to throughout the country by many counties, towns and
1ocieties which have perpetuated his memory by adopting his name.
"In 1816 Governor Tompkins was a candidate for the Presidency
of the United States, and it it is interesting to know that it was largely
his opposition to slavery that prevented his nomination. He accepted
the Vice-Presidency, however, under President Monroe, and early in
the following year resigned the Governorship to go to Washington.
"It was then that the cruel and totally unfounded accusation was
made against him of having misused the State funds, when, as a matter of fact, he had practically placed his entire private fortune in the
State treasury and used it for the defense of his country and the honor
of his State. Broken in health, broken in fortune, and, we may well
believe, broken-hearted, this renowned patriot, splendid American, and
noble Mason went home to Staten Island to die.
"In relation to thoughtful, patriotic, straightforward, and successful
administration in elective office, Masons have always given a good
account of themselves. Governor Tompkins was one of the most striking instances in the history of our Order and in the history of our
nation of a man in office subjected to the bitterest opposition, the most
difficult political obstacles, and, finally, the vilest slander, who yet pursued the even tenor of his way, planning and working steadily and
incessantly for the welfare of his city. the State, and the people.
''Unusual rewards were his during his active career, yet he died
in disappointment and in poverty; and it remained for posterity, for his
fellow Masons, to record his name permanently in our annals of honorable life and good deeds.
. "Fifty-one years old is too young for a robust and active man to
die; and when such a man dies at fifty-one, as Daniel D. Tompkins did,
broken in health and bankrupt, after the honest accumulation of a
large fortune, which he spent for his country, and after an extraordinary
career of unremitting hard work, devoted to his country, there is in that
man's character a brilliant exemplification of what we mean by
Masonry.
"Governor Tompkins attained the 33d degree while he was still
in the thirties-a young man. He was Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of New York in 1801 to 1805, beginning his term when he
was but twenty-seven years old. During 1820 and 1821 he was Grand
Master of Masons in the State of New York. Before that, in 1813,
he had been made Grand Commander for life of the SuJ,>reme Council
of the Thirty-third Degree for the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction of
the United States of America."
Dispensations were issued by the Grand Master to form twelve new
Lodges.
The Masonic Home is referred to as the "apple of the eye" of
New York Masonry, and in the following earnest words the Grand

126

127

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Master urges all the brethren to visit when possible this great monument to Masonic love in the jurisdiction.
"Brethren, I urge you one and all to visit the Home. It is not a
show place in the sense that it is made ready for visitors, but it needs·
only a few hours under its roof to perceive the spirit which pervades
there, and to inspire a feeling af pride for your share in its support."

"A Report on Foreign Correspondence, as we conceive it, is but a
map of the busy life of Masonry, and should present the mos: important features of that busy life in the most convenient and comprehensive form possible. We do not hesitate to present these features;
~ome brethren may not agree with us or the ways of our own Grand
Lodge, but we spread them before our brethren with no desire to obtrude
our views and opinions upon others.
"Our great fraternity forms a vast chain which encircles the globe,
and when we consider the number, the standing, the wealth of this
great army of over two millions, men of education and all above the
average citizen in their several communities, we stand amazed at the
enormous potentiality of our fraternity and look forward to a possible
use of all this power for the good of the world and especially for the
l{ood and benefit of this, our own l{lorious country. What a bulwark
airainst disorder, lawlessness and crime, and what a fortress to protect
life, property and secure happiness to all our orderly fellow citizens, for
this army of good and true has but one object, one aim-to reverence
the Great Jehovah, and help, aid and assist the poor, the needy and
distressed."

The "New York properties" of the jurisdiction, consisting of. the
great buildings· on Twenty-third street and Twenty-fourth street, New
York, are referred to, and the enormous work accomplished by the
committee in carrying forward to what is now almost a successful conclusion the undertakings.
From the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall and Asylum
Fund we learn that there are sheltered at the Home now 437 beneficiaries, and that the Home plant represents an investment of $625,000,
and the net assets ~f the Grand Lodge are set down as $2,300,000.
The report of the Grand Historian is resumed and contains
sketches of thirty Lodges, giving, as in the cases of those which have
been reported on before, the history of each Lodge from its inception,
with the names of the signers of the petitions for dispensations, the
first officers, list of men that have been honored in public life, those
honored Masonically, etc., with occasional cuts of early meeting places,
etc., making in all a very interesting and valuable commentary orl the
progress of Masonry, as exemplified in the individual Lodges in great
Jurisdiction of New York.
Reports of various committees, such as that on Deceased Brethren,
on A11tiquities, on Charters, on German Masonic Temple Association,
and the Brooklyn Masonic Guild and the Masonic Board of Relief, etc.,·
were rendered, making the sessions of the Grand Lodge exceedingly
busy, and replete with accomplishment.
At the election held on the third day· of We; · Comm'unication, .the
R. '. W:. Charles Smith was elected G~artd M<J,ster :by acclamation. as
were also all of the other ·officers, and after some remarks by R.'. W ,'.
John J. MacCrum, Senior Grand Deacon, in presenting a handsome portrait of the M.',. W.'. Rob.er~ Judson l(enworthy,. Past Grand Master, to
the .Grimd Lodge, as the. gift of many friends, and a response by the.
newly elected Grand Master, the Grand Lodge was closed with prayer
by R.'. w. '. Charles A. Brown, · Chaplain.
" T~e Committee 011 F'oreign 'Cqrrespondence, of which M.'. w:.
Towrtsend Scudder is chairtn'an, . presents a comprehensive report, reviewing briefly all of the Grand Jurisdictions holding relations with
New Y<;>rk, in which report <;:alifornia, 19ll, is noticed, with a quotation
from the Grand Master's address.
The view entertained by the committee as to its functions may be
judged frotn lhe following paragraphs, taken from the "introduction"
tb their report :

Charles Smith, Oneonta, elected Grand Master.
Edward M. L. Ehlers, New York, re-elected Grand Secretary.
NEW ZEALAND, 1911.,
Number of membership, ll,558.
Number of Lodges, f79.
The Twenty-second Annual Communication was held at Christ
Church on Wednesday, May 10th, and Thursday, May 11th, 1911-the
M.'. W.'. Brother C. J. W. Griffiths presiding.
The session was devoted strictly to business ; reports were made
hy the various officers and boards. The Board of Management of
the Widows and Orphans and Aged Masons' Fund showed disbursements to a very considerable number of annuitants, new annuities
being granted to several beneficiaries, and the whole report show$ that
the fund is managed with a great deal of business ability.
Twelve new Lodges were constituted during the year.
"Past rank" was conferred upon several brethren who had performed worthy service in various directions, and the Board of General
Purposes made a rather comprehensive report, discussing therein a
number of questions of general interest.
On the subject of physical fitness of candidates; the following discussion will, we believe, be found interesting :
"M.'. W ,' . Brother Williams, in moving the adoption of the clause,
said that this question occupied a great deal of attention in various
jurisdictions, especially in America, where more or less latitude was
allowed on the subject. The Board had ·fallen back upon a decision of
the Grand Lodge of England, which they were safe in assuming was
not given without going very deeply into the question.
W.'. Brother Willis (Lodge of Progress, No. 22) seconded the
motion.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

M."; W:. Brother Binns said that the question was a d.ifficult one,.
and often cropped up. It had arisen twice in his district within the
last twelve months. The ruling of the Grand Lodge of England was
an old orte, dating from the year 1875. Could not our own Grand Lodg~
give a ruling? If the matter were left to the Lodge.s there would be
diversity of action and some would allow greater latitude than others.
One of the cases' to which he had alluded was that of a g~ntleman
who, he was sure, would have been an ornament to the Craft 1f he had
been admitted. Unfortunately he had lost an arm, and so would have
been unable to ·give the signs proper to Craft Lodges. One member. of
the Board had suggested that s9 long as a man was ~apable of going
through what was required of him, th!J.t should .be suff1c1~nt. It wo!lld
be as well for the Board to think this suggest10n over m the commg
twelve months1 and see whether they could not give effect to it, so that
.
Masters of Lo dges might have something t~ guide them.
"R.". w:. Brother King, J. G. W., said that he had g1v~n .so~e
attention to this matter, and had consulted works on ,M;asomc JUr1sprudence in regard to it. In .t~es<; the consensus of opm10n was that,
given mental and moral qualif1~at10ns, so long .as a man was able .to
earn an honest living, and receive and communicate the secrets of the
Craft he was a fit and proper person to be made a Freemason.
The M.". w:. Grand Master thought that if the President <;>f the
Board would assure Grand Lodge that this matter would be c9ns1de.red
by the Board, it would save a large .amount of unnecessary d1.scuss1on.
"M:. W:. Brother Williams said he would prefer that 1f Grand
Lodge did not concur in the clause, the matter should be re!erred back
to the Board. The opinion of the Board was expressed by its endorsement of the letter of the Grand Secretary of England.
"R.". W:. Brother Dr. Withers, P. G. W., thought the system suggested in the letter quoted was quite sufficient, because nowadays .a
man could get an arm or a leg quite as good as, if not better than, one
he had lost.
'd h · h'
·
"M. ·. w. ·. Brother Niccol, Grand Secretary, sat t at. in is :e- ·
search on this subject he had.found that those Grand Lodges .in Americ.a
that had endeavored to define the exact amount of deformity or def.1ciency which would exclude a man from the Craft had succeeded m
making themselves supremely ridiculous. It was better that there s~o?ld
be some general rule that so long as. a man was ptpa~le of rece1v1!1g
and communicating the secrets, and his moral quahf1cat!ons were sa~1s­
factory he should be eligible. Some regard must . be given to physical
fitness 'because if a man were initiated who was minus an arm or a leg,
and that man went to other countries, how wa~ he t_o prove that he was
a Freemason? Far more important than physic!J.l fitness was the question of moral fitness. The Lodges were respons1b\e for the class of can~
diaates they admitted, and it woul~ be a gre.at mis.take to release them
from that responsibility by attempting to legislate in the matter.
M.". w:. Brother Burton said that in his researches among the
records of the Grand Lodges in America he. fou~d that, on tqe one
hand they were very rigid as to the exact physical f1tn~ss of candtd~tes,
but ~ome of them paid this Grand Lodge the compltment of saying:
'We notice that in New Zealand they are a great deal more particular
about moral fitness.'
.
.
.
"W.". Brother Jolly (Hercul~s ~odge, No., 36) co11S1dered that this
question required only the apphcatt<;>n of ;;i httle c~mmon sense, and
that the Board of General Purposes, m quoting the dictum of the Grand
Lodge of England, had given our Lodges exactly what they wanted.

As long as a m:in could do the work of any degree with sufficient clearness and exactitude to enable the work to be recognized that was all
that sho.uld .be asked for in the matter of physical fitness.' As had just
been said, 1t was not so much physical fitness as moral fitness that
should be required.
"Motion agreed to."

. 128

129

The M.". w:. Christopher James Whitney Griffith was re-elected
Grand Master, and on being installed spoke in part as follows:
"M.". w:., R.". w:., v:. w:. and w:. Brethren: First let me
~hank you for the very great honor you have .conferred upon me by electmg me your Grand Master for the second time; particularly I desire to
express my thanks to those Lodges and those brethren who nominated
me to office, and especially to M.". W:. Brother Williams for the
impressive manner in which he performed the ceremony of my installation.
"This being the twenty-first Annual Communication of Grand Lodge,
we may. look. back over the years that have passed, and note with pride
and sat1sfact10n what the Grand Lodge has accomplished. Twenty
years ago the total number of Lodges in the Dominion was 147, of which
85 were under the E. C., 15 under the I. C., and 47 under the S. C. Now
we have 183 Lodges of our own, whilst under other Constitutions there
are 40 English, 4 Irish, and 12 Scotch. During that twentr years we
have assisted the widow and the orphan, the poor and the distressed to
the extent of over £20,000. We now number nearly 12,000 members, and
possess accumulated funds to the amount of between £24 000 and £25 000. Without being ostentatious, we may fairly say that these facts a~e
matters for fraternal congratulation.
"The past year has for us been one of peaceful, steady, and uninterrupted progress, both numerically and financially. The opening of
twelve new Lodges within twelve months established a record, and the
fact of the M. ·. w. ·. Grand Secretary being able to report that for the
ninth year in succession every Lodge is clear on the books, speaks
volumes for the healthy condition of the Craft. My acknowledgments
are due to M.". w:. Brother Williams, M.". w:. Brother Nicholson,
and R. · · W. ·. Brother Harkness for acting on my behalf in constituting
several of the new Lodges, and undertaking those functions I was unable to take. myself. The Prov. G. M. reports are highly satisfactory,
and bear witness to the prosperity and advancement of the Lodges
throughout the territory."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Alfred H. Burton,
P. G. N., in which California, 1910, is fraternally reviewed.
Complimentary reference is made to the oration delivered at that
Communication by R.". w:. Brother Charles A. Adams. Of Brother
Adams' effort he says :
"It occupies eight pages of the Proceedings and every part of it
is redolent of wisdom, faithfulness and common sense. No wonder
that the Grand Lodge ordered 10,000 copies of it for distribution
throughout the jurisdiction I Would that a similar or suitable number
were 01dered by the Grand Lodge of New Zealand for circulation
among the Freemasons of our dominion."

130

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Then he prc>teeds to make numerous quotations from Brother
Adams' orlltiort to further emphasize his approval of the same and
of the sentiments therein contained.
M.'.
Brother C. J . W. Griffiths, Grand Master.

w:.

Malcolm Niccol, Grand Secretary.
NORTH CAROLINA, 1912.
The Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of North
Carolina convened in its One Hundred and Twe?ty-fifth. Annual Communication in the Hall of the Masonic Temple ,in the city of Raleigh,
Tuesday evening, January 9, 1912, at 7 :30 o clock, and ~a~ opened
0 11
· D ue F orm-M · · · W · · · W . B · McKoy• Grand Master, pres1dmg.
m
The Grand Master did not deliver his address until the evening of
the second day of the Communicat.ion.
That he places Masonry and its teachings on a high plane may be
judged from what he says in the opening of his address:
"I have never in thought or word attempted to confound Mas~nry
ith the church but with its teachings and tendency to make f~r h~~­
:;, urer and better things, to raise the fallen and help then:i m t e1r
st;u~gle upward, and especially to in~u.lcate man's dlove ~0£-ih1j ff~~ol1~
man surely Masonry makes for reh~1on pure an. un ~ 1 ec , .
11
that' Good Book, without which no Masonic hall 1s. fur~!fhjd ald ~
Masonic meeting can be held, we are asked the question,
t iou oves,
not thy neighbor whom thou hast seen, how then canst thou love thy
God whom thou hast not seen.' "
He refers in a fitting manner to the "fraternal dead," making especial mention of the death in the year of W.' . Ch~rles F . Bahnson1
Grand Lecturer, and of Past Grand Master and Assistant Grand Lecturer Francis N. Moye, and of Past Grand Master Charles C. Clark,
and of Colonel Thomas Kenan, Past Deputy Gra1~d Master, and of
. W J Hicks who for so many years had m charge the desCo1onel
. .
•
" bl'
·
tinies of the Oxford Orphanage Asylum, said to be the su 1mest ~xpression of Masonry and the greatest institution in North Carolina
to-day."
The Grand Master refers also with deep feeling to the death of
Professol' J . G. Catlyle, P ast Grand Orator,. whose address at the
Annual <:::ommunication of the Grand Lodge m 1910 on the subject,
"Light and Love-the Fundamentals of Masonry," is spoken of as a
Masonic epic.
The Grand Master refers to his visit to Alexandria, Y_a., upon
the occasion of the second meeting of the Washington M.emorial .As~o­
ciation and considers this visit one of the pleasantest trips of his life,
in wh{ch, as he states, Masonry was exemplified in many ways.

REPORT ON CORRESPONOENCE.

13L

This is what the Grand Master has to say under the heading of
decisions:
"I have seen fit to put down very few decisions, those being the
ones which were not covered by the present Masonic Law. One exception, however, to this I will make. It seems that there has been so
much misunderstanding as to laws bearing upon ballot that I will give
a resume of them. Whenever a petition is received it must be balloted
upon. When it is balloted upon and a candidate is rejected, another
ballot may be taken for fear a mistake has been made. In no case can
more than two ballots be taken, nor can another ballot be taken on the
same petition at any subsequent time. The petitioner must wait one
year before he ciln petition again. The ballot is secret and sacred. The
Worshipful Master, Senior and Junior Warden, and Senior Deacon
have no right to disclose how the ballot stood if rejected. No man
has a right to question the ballot nor to ask anyone how he voted on
the ballot. No man has a right to tell how he voted. Thus, you see the
strongest laws are thrown around a ballot in order to keep it secret.
Any brother who is a member of the Lodge can demand another ballot
on passing or raising and can stop the Entered Ap{lrentice by objecting
thereto. A man was elected to degrees in Edenton Lodge six years aR"O,
initiated in Ranah Lodge, was made an Entered Apprentice at Danville,
Virginia, passed in Concord Lod!le at Tarboro and raised in Eno Lodge,
Durham, but has not signed the By-laws of Edenton Lodge, what is his
position ?-That of a non-affiliated Mason.''
·
The Grand Master particularly urges upon the Masons of the
iurisdiction the duty of carrying forward to a successful conclusion
the project which is under consideration of a Masonic and Eastern
Star Home.
The Oxford Orphan Asylum still claims the affectionate interest
of the fraternity and is regarded, in many respects, as the model institution of its kind in America. Three hundred and sixteen children
are sheltered there and are heing trained and educated to fit them in a
proper manner to battle with the world successfully and to make
good, high-minded, useful citizens.
Ten Special Communications of the Grand . Lodge were held in
the year, the most i,m portant of these Communications, in the opinion of the Grand Master, being the one held on February 13, 1911,
fo r the purpose of dedicating a memorial tablet to Joseph Montfo rd, said to he the first, last and only Grand Master for all America.
· Concerning this cere.mo~y and the claim touching !)is historical
position in Masonry, the Grand Master ~as this to s_ay :
"The grave of Montfort was covered with the Briti,sh and American flags, under which was the marble stone-the gift of Masonry to his
memory. The report of this Communication no doubt fully covers the
exercises, and renders it unnecessary to recapitulate. I wish, however,
to give especial expression to the thanks which North Carolina Masonry
owes to Brother Harry Gowan, to whose constant and persistent efforts is
due the fact -that the -grave of Montfort is properly marked for the information of succeeding generations, and by reason of which before and

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPO~T. ON , CORRESPONDEjNCE.:

since this occasion those who claimed earlier Grand Masters of equal
jurisdiction with Montfort, are gradually acknowledging the incorrectness of_that position. The. Grand Hi~torian of. Marylan?._ forme.rly one
State which made this claim, has written of his unquahf1ed b~hef th~t
Montfort was the first, last and only Grand Master of America. . His
commission being broader than any predecessor.
"New -York and Alabama admitting the same. As this is a ma.tter
of such great historical interest, I appoint Brother Har~y Gowan and
Grand Historian Marshall DeLancey Haywood, a committee to secure
and compile all the facts concerning the matters above referred to and
report to the next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge."

now number 101 Lodges .with a total membership of over eight thousand and an average membersnip of seventy-nine. But why should not
Masonry keep pace with other institutions of the world? No institution was ever founded upon better principles or surer foundation ; without trust being in God, the Great Physician who can heal us 'of our
wounds, bind up our broken hearts, and soothe us in time of sorrow ;
with Faith, Hope and Charity .as our watchword and Brotherly Love,
Relief and Truth as the tenets of our order, who can wonder at the
1rowth we have accomplished? And who can conceive of anything
·
more beautiful ?
"The year has been an inspiring one to me and I trust I may
have said or done something that will be of help to the Craft. I have
received nothing but kindness and courtesy wherever I have been, and
now, as the time has about come for me to surrender to my successor
the gavel, I wish again to thank you all for the kindness received at your
hands."

On the first day of the .session Brother Henry A. Grady, Grand
Orator, delivered the annual address, which, on motion, was ordered
printed in the Proceedings, and a vote of thanks was unanimously
extended to Brother Grady. His subject was "God and Immortality
in Masonry."
From the Grand Secretary's report, it appears that the jurisdictiol)
now has 21,479 Master Masons, a gain of 633 over the preceding year.
From his report it also appears that dispensations were granted .
to form six new Lodges, and two were continued under dispensation
for another year.
The Communication of the Grand Lodge was made more interesting by the unveiling of the marble bust of First Grand Master Samuel Johnston. The exercises were held in the Temple. The bust was
placed in the niche in the rotunda of the Capitol and · there unveiled.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Dr. John A. Collins,
his sixteenth in number. He is considered a "tower of strength" to •
Masonry, not only in the Grand Jurisdiction which claims him as a
member, but throughout the entire Masonic world.
California, for some reason, is omitted from Dr. Collins' report,
which report, however, is interesting and his comments illuminating
and valuable.
William B. McKoy, Wilmington, re-elected Grand Master.
John C. Drewry, Raleigh, re-elected Grand Secretary.
NORTH DAKOTA, 1911.
The Twenty-second Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
A. F. and A. M., of the State of North Dakota, was opened at 10
a. m., in the Masonic Temple, in the city of Grand Forks, on Tuesday,
June 27th, and continued in session until 5 p. m. Wednesday after. noon, June 28, A. D. 1911, A. L. 5911-Grand Master John J. Hull
presiding.
In opening his address, he says :
"The year has been a busy one. The growth of the order has been
beyond my faintest expectations when considering the depression of
last year caused by the shortage of crops all over our entire State. We

133

He announces the death of Grand Lecturer Brother Almon L.
Woods and pays a just tribute to his memory.
He reports two decision's, one of which is as follows:
"Question 2: Can Lodges under dispensation issue dimits?
"Answer: No. A Lodge working under a dispensation is a probatiollary Lodge, being created during the recess of the Grand Lodge by
virtue of a disl(ensation issued them by the Grand Master granting
them the authority for a specific time to do certain things, viz: to enter
'\pprentices; pass Fellow Crafts; raise Master Masons, and receive
members by affiliation and nothing more."
Sure!
He issued a dispensation to Tuscan Lodge No. 44 of Bottineau,
North Dakota, to hold an open air Lodge on Park Island, on Lake
Latigoshe, and to confer the Entered Apprentice and Master M:uons
degrees.
He states that he received a very pressing invitation to be present
at this 111eeting, but, owing to circumstances over which he had no
control, he was unable to attend.
Dispensations to form five new Lodges were granted, and the three
Lodges that received charters at the last preceding Annual Communication were duly constituted; two corner-stone ceremonies were conducted by the Grand Lodge in the year, one to lay the corner-stone of
the new Court House at Ellendale, Dickey County, North Dakota, the
other to lay the corner-stone at Rugby, Pierce County, North Dakota.
He attended the meeting of the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association at Alexandria, Va., on April 22, and gave the
project his warm and cordial endorsement, with the recommendation
for an annual appropriation to the Association of $100.
The Grand Lodge, however, did not fully carry out the Grand
Master's recommendation, but modified it to the extent of making an
appropriation for one year of $100, contingent upon the approval of the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

incoming Grand Master, who shall have the authority of using this
approvriation if in his judgment it seemed proper to do so.
The Grand Treasurer'& report shows a cash balance on hand of

"Your Committee on 'Good .o f the Order' begs leave to direct the
11ttention of this Grand Lodge, and the members of constitutent Lodges,
briefly to two subjects which appeal to us as just now demanding the
1ympathetic support of all men who believe in the betterment of humanity. Certainly if the principles of Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth
have any practical application, it may be expected that Masons would be
Interested in these topics.
"The first of these topics is 'The Peace Movement in its various
activities;' the other, 'The Burden of Tuberculosis and its Prevention.'
Both of these movements have progressed far beyond the field of speculntion. They are organized, and we expect th.e next ten years will see
more progress made toward their solution than has been made in the
pnst fifty.
"There was a· time when might made right, when a nation coveting
n hit of territory, or feeling its interests or its honor trenched upon,
resorted immediately to the sword as the only way of bringing about the
rlesired settlement. Those days, we hope, have gone by, yet it is within the
memory of every man in this room to realize how easily and quickly war
has been resorted within the past ten or fifteen years. There is a
glamor about military trappings; the marshal spirit frequently seizes
a people. The splendid appearance of the man in the ranks, the dash
of the officers, the blare of the bugle and the ·rattle of the drums, are
apt to outweigh temporarily the agony of death in battle or in the
hospital, the sorrow of fatherless children and widowed mothers, the
destruction of property and all the terrible costs of war. General Sherman said : 'War is hell.' This expressfon fits the case. We conceive
of nothing which approaches nearer to the ordinary conception of the
'inferno' than such a battle as Gettysbttrg. We believe that we are beginning to realize that war is a crime, yet we go on as a· nation spending our money in preparation for wars that are to be.
"We direct your attention today as impressively as we can to the
fact that this nation which spends more than a billion dollars a year
for its maintenance, that it is spending more than half that amount, more
than 500 millions annually upon the up-keep of its army and navy and
in the payment of pensions to those who fought the battles of the past;
and this, in a nation which maintains proportionately the smallest standing army in the world. We are spending annually more than $5.00 a
head on wars past and future for every man, woman and child in this
country of ours. We are spendin~ more in this way than is spent in
the maintenance of all the educational institutions of the land. What
we spend is less than that spent by several of the great powers of
Europe.
"England has 73 first-class hattleships, representing an expenditure of more than a half billion dollars, United States 37, Germany 36,
France 32, Japan 24, Italy 15, Russia 12, and all of these nations are
building warships just as fast as the money can be raised by taxation or
bond issues and the ship-yards can turn them out.
"We may well ask, what means all this feverish activity, all this
bu rden of taxation, all this waste of productive · activity. The statesmen
of all nations see the folly of it; the financiers and economists see
fi nancial ruin staring many nations in the face as the result of it. We
may also ask: where is our boasted Christian civilization; where is our
much vaunted ide~ of brotherhood? Yet let us not be discouraged.
There have been two Hague conferences. There have been serious questions which twenty-five years ago would have meant war in fortyeight hours settled by arbitration. There are now many treaties of

$20,962.67.

.

Gr;\nd Secretary Walter I,. Stockwell condttdes his report as foJ.lows, and, i11asmuch as his immediate predecessor. as Grand Secretary
was the very able Frank Jared Thompson, so well known throughout
the Masonic world, we may readily understand Brother Stockwell's misgivings in endeavoring to maintain the very high standard of Masonic
excellence set by his predecessor. This is what he says:
.
"The past year has been a short one. We had looked forward to
1t with some doubts and misgivings. These doubts and misgivings
were based largely upon P?Ssibility of our inability to follow iri the
footsteps of the one who gmded so long the affairs of this Grand Body.
"We have found much to do, and have tried to do that work in
such a way as to commend it to the brethren and our conscience. The
work has been a pleasure; little or nothing has come up to mar the
serenity of the situation.
•
. . "In submitting to you today the review of the year, we know that
1t 1~ far from ·perfect, yet .we have e~rnestly stirven to do those things
which would reflect credit upon this great order and thus incre11.se ·
the sum of human happiness."
·
The report of the Trustees of the Grand Lodge Masonic Relief
Fund shows that no payments whatever were made from the fund, bµt
that it was slightly increased by interest which the fund had earned during the year.
In the afternoon of the first day of the session, preliminary business having been disposed of, the Grand Lodge, we are told, listened
with . great interest and satisfaction to the address of the Grand Orator
W.' · Brother Laurence G~ Moultrie, upon the subject "Masoni~
Duties."
The address of Brother Moultrie, so the report states, was a
clarion call to every Mason to a higher sense of duty a.nd a clearer
appreciation of his obligation, not only to Masonry but to society in
general.
·
M.' · W .' · Brother Grant S. Hager expressed his great appreciation of Brother Moultrie's timely address, and in accordance with his
motion the address was printed in the Proceedings and a sufficient
number of additional copies furnished to allow a copy to every Mason
within the jurisdiction.
Speaking under the head of the "Good of the Order," M.'. W.'.
Grant S. Hager, chairman of the Good of the Order Committee, pre"
sented a highly instructive address, and inasmuch as the information
embodied therein is important and general we quote his address in ·
full, as follows:

185

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
arbitration already in force. !here are .n.u~erous peace ;;ocieties. There
are associations for international conc1hat1on. T~ere 1s a ?"Ovement
already launched to ~mphasize the peac~ movement m our pubhc schools.
The soft pedal is bemg put upon war m our school text books, and the
. .
emphasis is being placed on ~he Arts of Peace.
"Andrew Carnegie has given an endowment of ten m1lhons to promote .the Peace movement. But recently the President of the United
States has given utterance to his belief that th time is at hand when
arbitration treaties without limitation as to questions to be s.ettled may
be expected. This suggestion met with a quick and ·sympathetic response
from the leaders of both great parties in England. Such arbitration·
treaties are now being framed with both England and France. Such
treaties are already in existence between Sweden and Norway.. The
great stumbling block in the past h'!s be~n whether we sho?ld arb1!rate
questions of national honor. Upon this pomt Andrew Carnegie says: Our
country cannot be dishonored by any power or by all the powers combined. All honor wounds are self-inflicted. Since war decides not
what is right, but only who is strong, it is. difficult to unde;stand how a
moral being can conscientiously appeal to 1t before exhausting all peaceable means.'
.
:
"Your Committee would recommend that this grand body commit
itself as favoring all practical movements leading to the world's peac~.
"In presenting for your consideration the 'Burdens of Tuberculosis
and the Methods of its Prevention and Cure,' we shall endeavor to he
brief. The following is clipped from a recent ne~spaper: 'Cost of the
White Plague. Figures based upon 500 male. patients:
"'Of these 244 who died, cost the community $177.56 each or a total
of $31,072. The 256 living have cost $248.18 each, total of $4?,9~2, a
total community loss for the ?OO of $7?,984. '.fhe cases showed 1!1d1vidual loss in wages of $426,039. These items give some larger notions of
extent and cost :
.
.
"'The total annual tariff revenue of the Payne-Aldrich bill to the
United States government is 20 per cent, less than the actual !'lnnual lo;;s
of wages and cost of sickness and deaths from tuberculosis alone m
the United States.'
. .
"'A greater number of persons are taken out of productive mdustry by tuberculosis every year in the United States than there are wage
earners in the State of Massachusetts.'
.
. .
.
"'The researches of the Sage foundation and s1m1lar bodies have
demonstrated that the average family income in the United States is less•
than $800,000. On this basis the entire fam!Jy ,income of $562,500 ~ous~­
holders would be required to pay the nations yearly tuberculosis bill
alone.' ($450,000,000.00) ·
·
f h
f
"This is the dollars and cents side of i!, to say nothing o t e su .fering and sorrow which is attendant upon 1t. And the awful part of it
all is that this waste of life and money is prevent'!ble. A.II that 1s needed.
is education, organization, co-operation, fresh air, sunhght and proper
nourishment.
.
"We quote from the a~nual ad~r~ss of B:other Dr. John Gras~1ck
before the Anti-Tuberculosis Association at Bismark last Fe!Jruary.
" 'Germany has reduced the <lea.th rate from consumptt9n 13 per
cent in five years, and the next five 1s exp~ct~d to show a still. gre~ter
decrease. At the present rate of decrease, 1t 1s compu~ed. that m thirty
years there will be few if any deaths from tuberculosis m the land c;if
Herr Kaiser. Denmark has reduced the death rate 45 .per ~ent. m
thirty-two years. Sweden has a decrease of 38 per cent m thirty-two

137

yeurs. Great Britain has not been behind. Johnnie Bull can always be
relied upon to put up a good fight. In this struggle the death ra.te
from consumption has been reduced over 50 per cent in forty-six years,
1n<l in England the death rate has been reduced to 114 per 100,000 populution, the lowest death rate from consumption of any country in Eu1ope. Statistics show that at the present rate of decrease there will be
110 tuberculosis in England after forty years. Coming to our own country, we find an equally encouraging condition. The United States has
reduced her tuberculosis death rate 40 per cent in twenty-eight years
In the registration area, while Massachusetts has reduced her tuberculosis death rate 35 per cent in the past twenty-eight years. In five
New England states a reduction of 18 per cent was effected in thirteen
years. New York has a reduction of 16.5 per cent in nine years-and
•., on all along the line wherever modern methods have been used." ·
"North Dakota is not behind in her efforts in this fight. A sanitnrium has been located in the Turtle Mountains near Dunseith, and
nn appropriation has been made to erect buildings this year. One of
the great fraternal organizations of this state, the Ancient Order of
United Workmen, has taken steps to erect here a cottage to care properly
for its own members who are afflicted. There is in this Grand Body to-day
n man who owes his life and present good health to the fact that his
l,odge, in the spirit of true Masonic charity, made it possible for him
lo receive the treatment which has restored him to health and strength.
It has occurred to 1.our Committee that while a Masonic Home may not
he considered feasible at this time, that in the erection of a cottage in
connection with this State sanitarium may be found an opportunity for
practical Masonic charity. It is deeds, not words, that count.
"Your Committee recommends that the incoming Grand Master
11nd the Grand Secretary procure information relative to the probable
cost of construction and maintenance of a cottage at the proposed State
Tul:erculosis Sanatorium, for the use and benefit of Masons and their
families in North Dakota."
From the Committee on Returns the information is disclosed that
lhere are IOI Lodges in the jurisdiction, with a total membership of
8,006. a net gain of 427 over the preceding year being recorded.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence consists simply of a digest
of decisions of the various Grand Masters, as reported in the Proceedings of 1910, but from the following report we are assured that in
future North Dakota will have a regular Report on Foreign Correspondence:
"Your Committee, to whom was referred that portion of the report
of the Grand Secretary relating to Foreign Correspondence, beg leave
to report as follows :
"We believe the time has come when this Grand Lodge should have
a Report on Correspondence which will compare favorably with those
of other Grand Jurisdictions, and knowing that the ability to have such
a report is within the reach of this Grand Lodge, we would recommen that the compensation to be paid the writer of such report be increased to the sum of $250.00 in order to compensate him more nearly
for the service."
27

1:18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Before· the close of the Communication the W." · James W. Foley
was appointed chairman of the committee:
Robert Morrison, Pembina, eletted Grand Master.
Walter L. Stockwell, Fargo, re-elected Grand Secretary.
NOVA SCOTIA, 1911.
The Forty-sixth Annual Communiqtion of _the M:. w:. Grand
Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Nova Scotia was held
in Freemasons' Hall, in the city of Halifax, beginning at 10 o'clock
in the forenoon of Wednesday, the 14th day of June, A. D. 1911,
A. L. 5911-R. '. w:. Brother Robert Fred. Merlin, D. G. M., Acting
Grand Master, presiding.
"The Acting Grand Master announced that ow!ng. to the .fact that
the Provincial Elections are being held .this da~, 1t was dec!de~ th~t
after Grand Lodge was opened in compliance with the <;:onstlt~t1on, 1t
should be adjourned and stand adjourned for one week, viz., until ·Wednesday, June 21, 1911, at 10 o'clock in the forenoon."
On reassembling on June 21st, the Grand Master delivered his
annual address, at the beginning of which he commented feelingly upon
the death in the year of Duncan Cameron Frazier, Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, who was prominertt not only in the civic
affairs of his country, but also as a Mason; also upon the death . of
the Grand Chaplain, Rev. Brother 'Frank M. Young, and later on
of the prominent Grand Chaplain, R." · W: · Rev. Brother H. D.
DeBlois.
The official acts of the Grand Master during the preceding year
are fully reported; also a _number of decisions, among which w.e find
the following:
"Question :-A candidate was duly elected to take his degrees· in a
Lodge 'in this jurisdiction, but before he could do so he was ordered
away to another bran~h of the .bank and a requ~st ma~e ~ha.t ~e be
permitted to take all his degrees m an~ther Lodge m th~ JUnsdtchon,.
"Held :-He must take th~ E. A.. m .th~ Jj>dge w~1ch elected him,
the remaining degrees, by waiver of iunsd1ct1on ohtamed through the
Grand Secretary's Office."
He observes that in the first year of his service as Grand Maste.r
( this being the secol1d year of service) he visited every Lodge of the
jurisdiction, and, having found everything in such excellent co.ndition,
he did not deem it necessary to cover the same ground agam, and,
therefore he made no official visits, although he did accept the few
invitatio~s to Lodges in connection with functions of a social nature.
In conclusion he says:
"\Vhile engaged in Masonic work during the .last two years my l<?t
was a happy one, and now that the time has arrived to surrender this
gavel, I lay it down with mingled feeling of regret and sorrow. I have

REPGRT ON CORRES·PONDENCE.

139

11ndeavored to keep it unspotted from the world ·and to wield it only in
manner which I believed would continue to raise the high stanqard
11 t by my predecessorsi and to place this Grand Lodge on a plane equ;i.l
I•• that of any Grand i..odge in the universe.
..
"During the last two years we have progressed ever upwards, our
membership increasing as well as the standard of our work and that of
the individual member; may this success continue. I assure my successor
and the members of this Grand Lodge of my humble assistance in any
wny that will further the interests of the Craft in this jurisdiction."
The Grand Secretary reports a total membership at the close of
1911 of 6,223, a gain over the preceding year of 186, there being 71
1•hurtered Lodges.
Distinguished visitors in the persons of M.". w:. Walter P.
lloull, P. G. M., and now Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Prince Edward Island, and Br.o ther P. F. LeMessurier, P. M., of
l\vnlon Lodge No. 776, R. E., representing the District Grand Lodge of
Hngland in Newfoundland, were announced and were cordially re1:eived and welcomed.
Frain the report of the Trustees of the Nova Scotia Freemasons'
1lome, it would appear that there are not many in that jurisdiction
l'Cquiring the shelter of · the Masonic Home, for the report shows that
111 the beginning of the year there were only four reside~ts and that
·>nly six were admitted during the year.
Other distinguished visitors, consisting of M.". w:. S. W. Crabbe,
I ', G. M., of the Grand Lodge of Prince Edward Island, and M:. W ;·.
Brother F. J. G. Knowlton, Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of
New Brunswick, paid the Grand Lodge the compliment of a visit, and
they likewise were welcomed in a cordial and fraternal manner.
Still another fraternal visit to the Grand Lodge was paid by W.".
Urother Alfred Anderson:
"W.". Brother Alfred Anderson and a large number of other
brethren from Massachusetts, were announced, all being vouched for,
they were admitted and cordially welcomed by the Grand Master.
Brother Anderson for himself and his brethren thanked the Grand Master, for the cordial reception extended to them, stating that during their
visit to this city, they had received many fraternal courtesies, from
members of the various branches of Freemasonry, all of which they
fully appreciated."
There is . a Report on Correspondence by Thomas Mowbray,
I '. D. G. M., Grand Secretary.
California, 1910, is fraternally considered, with this reference to our
Masonic Home and Hospital, the latter being the gift of our v:. w:.
Brother Edward Coleman :
''The good work by the Masonic Home is commended and lengthy
reports in connection therewith presented. And special reference is
made to the Masonic Hospital in connection with the Home and now

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.'·
140

141

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

i~ ' totirse 'ci(construction, the gift of V.'. W.'. Brother Edward Cole-

man Grand Treasurer and which will cost $40,000. A standing vote
of thanks was tendered the generous brother for his noble gift for a
noble purpose. Would that we had more of such members."
Augustus John Wolff, Lunenburg, elected Grand Master.
Thomas Mowbray, Halifax, re-elected Grand Secretary.
OHIO, 1911.
A group picture of an "unbroke~ line" of twenty Past Grand Masters of the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of Ohio, F. and A. M., forms
the frontispiece of the Proceedings.
From an examination of this picture one is justified in the belief
that the group, from the standpoint of intelligence and character, will
compare favorably with any group of men of like number which
might be assembled anywhere on earth.
The group contains the picture of William B. Melish, Grand Master
of Ohio in 1896, and now the Grand Master of the Grand Encampmeat
of Knights Templar of the United States, and Barton Smith, Grand
Master in 1897, and now Sovereign Grand Commander of the Supreme
Council of the Thirty-third Degree for the Northern Jurisdiction of the
United States.
..
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Fraterqity
of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Ohio convened in the
Masonic Temple, Dayton, Ohio, at 10 o'clock a. m., Wednesday, October
18 1911-Brother H. S. Kissell, Grand Master, presiding.
' The Communication was graced by the attendance of all of the
living Past Grand Masters, all of the Past Deputy Grand Masters and
representatives from 508 out of 520 chartered Lodges.
This showing we believe to be unprecedented in the history of
Grand Jurisdictions as large as that of Ohio.
The Grand Communication was welcomed to Dayton by Bl'other
Edward Burkhardt, Mayor of the city, and by M.'. W.'. Brother Horac~
A. Irvin, on behalf of the Masons of Dayton.
'
To these addresses M.'. w:. Brother A. P . Sperra made response
on behalf of the Grand Lodge in suitable and expressive language.

..

Grand Master Kissell, in. opening his annual address, says :
"As we survey the year which has just closed, w~ cannot, I am
quite sure, but distingui~h a. splendid advance in all h~es of thought
and action. Corruption in high places, unscrupulous business methoqs,
unfair dealing between employer and employee, th~ great moral and s~cia1
evils are not condoned as formerly. Approachin~ these matters in a
frank and honest way, elimii:iating prejudices .a~d j~alousies, applying
real brotherly love in some instances, are assisting in the ~olution of
these great problems and is b.ringing the worl.d to a much h1ghe; plane
morally socially and economically, and I believe that the teachings of
Masonry are having no small part in this general uplift."

Under the heading of "Necrology," the Grand Master refers par··
111 ularly to the death in the year of M.'. W.'. Brother Jos. M. Good•tu·l'd. the "dean," so the Grand Master says, "of the Grand Lodge's
fllu1trious corps of Past Grand Masters."
Four dispensations were granted to form new Lodges. These dis111•nsations were granted only after most careful investigation, for,
•ll cording to the views of the Grand Master, great care should be exer' 1 ied in granting such dispensations, there being already quite a num1.. 1 of Lodges in his jurisdiction, so he states, which are hardly strong
·•nough to comply with the ordinary requirements of the Grand Lodge.
He believes, therefore, that dispensations for new Lodges should
I · granted only where the evidence is very convincing that the Lodges
will be self-sustaining and prosperous and able to maintain an active
111d useful existence.
Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held to constitute three Lodges which received their charters at the preceding Annual
l 11111nunication; to dedicate eight Masonic temples or Lodge rooms;
to place the cornei-stones of se;en public buildings, and one to conduct
the funeral of M.'. W.'. Brother Jos. M. Goodspeed, Past Grand
Master.
Several fraternal visits to other Grand Jurisdictions were paid,
especial mention being made of the visit of Anthony Lodge No. 455 of
Springfield, which he accompanied to Adrian Lodge No. 19, at Adrian,
Mich., for the purpose of the transfer of the "Traveling Bible" from
the Ohio Lodge to the Michigan Lodge, M.'. W.'. D. Roscoe Swift,
nt that time Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Michigan, being a
member of Adrian Lodge, and the Ohio Grand Master a member of
Anthony Lodge.
The Grand Master states that "the day was replete with many
pleasant incidents, and every courtesy was shown the brethren from
Ohio."
That there is a tendency in Ohio, as well as in other Grand
Jurisdictions, to interpolate matter into the ritual that does not belong
there, with a view of promoting the dramatic effect, etc., of the "work,"
may be judged from the following quotation from the Grand Master's
address:
"I find that not a few of the Lodges are adding quite a little
work which is not contained in the Ritual or Standard Monitor. A
long soliloquy is being Used in one of the Lodges at least; a dialogue
has also been added which pertains to the conspiracy; several of the
Lodges have very elaborate drills; and I have seen and heard of other
matters which I fear will, if continued, destroy the effort which has
been made to secure uniformity in the work.
.
"When the attention of the Master has been called to Resolution
10. found on page 84 of the Code, the reply has been that they 'conform
to' the Ritual and Monitor by not omitting any of the prescribed work,

]fl

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCi.o..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

and that therefore they do not consider the additions which they make
to be in violation of this Resolution.
"I therefore made the following decision: 'Any addition to, as well
as any omission from the work as prescribed in the Ritual adopted
by this Grand Lodge, is in violation of that part of Resolution 10 which
enjoins conformity to said Ritual.' "

which body seceded from regular Masonry in Mexico, appropriating tht:
nnme of the former Grand Lodge, but being in fact irregular and not
now entitled to recognition.

142

All thoughtful Masons will, we believe, concur in the decision of
the Grand Master that the ritual is good enough as it is, and should•
be stri<;tly adhered to.
From the Grand Secretary's report we learn that the total membership of this jurisdiction at this time is 82,833, a gain of 3,332 over
the preceding year.
· '
On the second day of the Communication the Grand Lodge was
favored with distinguished visitors in the persons of Jos. Kirkup,·
Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of
Ohio; M. '. W .'. William B. Melish, Grand Master of the Grand
Encampment of Knights Templar of the United States; M. ·. W. ·.
Barton Smith, M.'. P.'. Sovereign Grand Commander of the A. and
A. Scottish Rite for the Northern Masonic Jurisdiction of the United
States of America.
The remarks of the brethren introducing these distinguished vis.::
itors were in each case happy and well-chosen, and the responses felicitous. The Grand Lodge was called up and the Grand Honors given to
the· distinguished brethren.
Speaking of one of these distinguished visitors, the Grand Master
·
announced:
"That upon the occasion of a visit made by M.'. W.'. Bro. Wm. B.
Melish to Europe, during the past summer, he had appointed Brother
Melish as his proxy to represent the Grand Lodge of Ohio at any Masonic function which M.'. w:. Brother Melish might have an opportunity of attending, ~nd call~d upon Brother Melish to report to the .
Grand Lodge as to his carrying out the purposes of this proxy.
"M.'. W.'. Brother Melish entertained the Grand Lodge with a
description of the interesting events in which he had participated, pointed
out the resemblances and differences between the ceremonies and practices of Masonry in Great Britain and the United States, and made an
address that was very instructive and claimed the close attention of the
Grand Lodge."
In accordance with the recommendations of the Committee on
Foreign Correspondence, the request of the "International Bureau for
Masonic Affairs," with its office at Neuchatel, Switzerland, that the
Grand Jurisdiction of Ohio should appoint a representative thereto and
hold membership therein, was for various reasons denied; that the
regular Grand Lodge of Mexico, now known as the York Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of Mexico, be granted recognition by
the Grand Lodge of Ohio, and be accepted as the lineal and proper
successor to the former Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico, a portion of

The committee to whom was referred the subject of the proposed
Washington Memorial Association at Alexandria made a report which
was duly adopted, and whose recommendations, embodied in the concluding paragraph of that report, are as follows:
"Your Committee therefore recommends that the Grand Master be
authorized to obtain for this Grand Lodge membership in said Association, provided the same can be done without entering into any contractual relations with said Association; reserving to this Grand Lodge
the right to sever such membership at any time it may see fit to do so,
nnd that all contributions to said enterprise, whether of this Grand
1,odge, the Subordinate Lodges, or membership under its obedience,
must be entirely vol~ntary." .
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.'. W.'. Nelson
Williams, Past Grand Master, chairman of the committee.
California, 1910, is courteously reviewed.
In speaking of Brother Adams' oration, the reviewer states that
the address was excellent, full of optimism and sound sense, and one
from which he would, except for lack of space, make extensive quotations.
Brother Thomas B. Guitteau, Toledo, elected Grand Master.
Brother J. H. Bromwell, Cincinnati, re-elected Grand Secretary.
OKLAHOMA, 1912.
The M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge, A. F. and A. M., of the State of
Oklahoma, was convened at the Scottish Rite Temple, in the city of
McAlester, State of Oklahoma, by R.'. W .'. Deputy Grand ¥aster
Alfred G. Gray, at JO o'.clock a. m., on the 14th day of Februari, A. L.
5912, A. D. 1912-M.'. W.'. Alexis Eddleman, Grand Master, presiding.

In opening his address, Grand Master Eddleman says :
"It is my pleasure to be able to tell you that peace and harmony
have prevailed throughout this grand jurisdiction; that but little discipline has been required; that the great work of building and maintaining our Masonic Home, was neither a dream nor a spasm, but a living
idea, and that it thrivt:s and grows in the hearts of the brethren, and
that they may be safely trusted to rally to its support and meet its requirements. We realized in the beginning that a hard year was before
us, and the tax upon our resources heavy, but the brethren have stood
by their guns, and have said by their actions, the Home must and shall
succeed."
·
Fifteen Lodges which recei;ed charters at the preceding Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge were constituted during the year
and nine dispensations to form new Lodges were granted.

144

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Among the decisions rendered by the Grand Master we quote th'e
following:
"Question-Eighteen months ago, petitioner was rejected by the
Lodge in a neighboring town. Since then, he removed to this city and
has been a resident here for about twelve months. Recently he petitioned
this Lodge for the degrees, but the Lodge of his former jurisdiction
which had previously rejected him refused to waive jurisdiction. Has
that Lodge perpetual jurisdiction over him so long as he remains in
this Grand lurisdiction, or can this Lodge take jurisdiction and either
..
admit or reject as it may deem it?"
"Answer-We have abandoned perpetual jurisdiction. The Lodge
which rejected the petitioner only has jurisdiction for six months thereafter. In cities where two or more Lodges have concurrent jurisdiction,
the jurisdiction over rejected material continues for twelve months.
" Held-In case of the death of the Worshipful Master of the Lodge,
the duties of that office devolve first upon the Sr. W. and in his absence
upon the Jr. W. The Lodge cannot elect a Worshipful Master for the
unexpired term nor can the Grand Master authorize same by special di.spensation. In rendering this decision, I reversed myself, but did so
after the examination of Masonic authorities."

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by W.'. Thomas
Chauncey Humphry.
California, 1910, is briefly considered.

The above decision was disapproved by the Jurisprudence Com-.
mittee.
"Question-Has a Lodge the right to prefer charges against a
brother for un-Masonic conduct committed while the charter of the
Lodge was arrested by the Grand Lodge, or is he amenable to the"Grand
Lodge only?
"Answer-The Lodge has the right to prefer charges and p,ut the
brother upo_n trial and it is its duty to do so if the facts warrant. '
Of the Masonic Home the Grand Master says:
"This is the apple of our eye, the core of our hearts. We are
proud of our Home and we have the right to be. We are faithful and
loyal to it and God grant we ever shall be. In this institution, we are
building for time and eternity. As Freemasons of this generation, w~
are erecting a monument more durable, _more creditable, than the finest
marble shafts that wealth can purchase. Generations yet unborn will
rise up to call us blessed. We have made, are making, and will continue
to make, sacrifices for the Home, but brethren, we can well afford to
make them. Think of it! The children of our deceased brothers
snatched as brands from the burning, cared for, educated and equipped
for the battles of life, they go forth full grown men and women, a credit
to themselves, to the community and to us."
The various reports concerning the Haine show that the institution
is performing well its allotted work. It shelters at this time 111 beneficiaries, 97 of whom are girls and boys.
The R.". w:. William H. Talmage, Grand Orator, delivered the
annual address, which was vastly enjoyed by the Grand Lodge and
ordered printed in the Proceedings.
The total investment in the Home at this time appears to be
$159,376.05, an exceedingly fine showing for a j'urisdiction so young
as that of the State of Oklahoma.

145

Concerning Brother Adams' oration, the reviewer remarks :
"The address was out of the beaten paths and the Grand Lodge
ordered 10,000 copies pdnted and distributed and published in the jour.
nal. I have read the address with great interest. Brother Adams combats the idea that business is one thin? and Masonry another. He said,
'As well might it be said that honesty 1s one thing and business another,'
or, 'truth is one thing and business another.' "
Alfred G. Gray, Cheyenne, elected Grand Master.
Wm. M. Anderson, Oklahoma City, re-elected Grand Secretary.
OREGON, 1912.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge assembled on May
11, 1912, in the Masonic Temple, Portland, Ore., for the purpose of
laying the corner-stone of Reed College, a public edifice in the near
vicinity.
The Sixty-second Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
Ancient Free and Accepted Masons, of the State of Oregon, was open~d
in the Grand Lodge room, Masonic Temple, city of Portland, on the
morning of June 12, A. D. 1912, A. L. 5912, at the hour of 10 o'clock
a. m.-Thomas M. Baldwin, Grand Master, presiding.
In opening his address, the Grand Master says:
"Brethren, I congratulate you upon the close of a year of prosperity,
as evidenced in the report of our Grand Secretary, whose labors have
contributed largely to this happy result. This report will show the
greatest material gr.o wth for any like period in the history of the Craft
in this State.
"I fear we are in danger of becoming 'purse proud.' Rather let us
extend the beneficent influences of Masonry as far as our means and opportunities will permit. We will thus best serve the great purposes of
our Fraternity and more clearly demonstrate our usefulness as a factor
in the scheme of civilization.
"Our chief aim should be to exert the greatest amount of practical
good possible. To apply the principles of a speculative science to the
practical needs of humamty; indeed, the preservation of our ancient landmarks is quite consistent with a complete adaptation to present . needs.
for the needs of humanity today are the needs of yesterday, and of all
time. These ends are not to be attained by a careful memorizing of
the ritual alone, by proclaiming aloud our virtues or by delving amid
the ruins of an age whose splendor and glory have long since passed
away. These are interesting and important in their way, and afford
stimulus for further exertion, but after all is said, we discover they are
only means to an end, and so, the question of the hour is, 'How can we
make Masonry to be in actuality, all that it can be as a force for good?'
Find the answer. You know it."

146

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Master bespeaks "reverent attention" while he alludes
to the "fraternal dead" of his own and other jurisdictions.
His report in a straightforward, business statement of his activities
during the year, which consist in part of the constitution of the six
Lodges which received charters at the preceding Annual Communication; of the issuance of dispensations to form five new Lodges; of the
placing of corner-stones of several public buildings; of the dedication
of a number of Masonic Halls, etc.
From his "opinions" we make the following quotation:
"Question-ls it permissible to take more than one candidate at a
time through the E. A., F . C. or the first part of the M. M. degrees ?
"Answer-No, except the second section of the Fellow Craft degree
and the lectures of the several degrees. The ceremonies should not
be abridged for the sake of saving time. They should be made as im~
pressive as possible, and no careless, slipshod work should be permitted."
"Question-is it a violation of any Masonic law to allow the ladies.
of the Eastern Star, as an organization, to take part jointly in the
funeral service by occupying one side of the hollow square at the grave
and depositing the flowers into the grave after the Masons have depos•
ited the sprig of acacia?
"Answer-I would grant to the Eastern Star' every privilege not inconsistent with the law and established customs of Masonry, but as the
burial of a brother is strictly Masonic work, and as the Lodge is at labor during the whole service, it is not proper or permissible to permit
anyone not a Mason to take part in the funeral ceremonies, except the'
clergy.
"I hold that a Subordinate Lodge conducting a funeral service may
invite (or permit to join in the funeral procession) other societies. or
appendant orders, to act as escort, whose position shall be assigned by
the Lodge conducting the ceremonies. The Order of the Eastern Star
might be invited to join in the procession and to render its beautiful and
impressive funeral service at the close of the Masonic ceremonies."
"Statement-Charges were preferred against a brother by the Jun"
ior Warden of the Lodge at a Stated Communication, charging conduct
unbecoming a Mason. The trial commission appointed in pursuance
of this action, in due time reported its find ings in tl;te matter, its verdict
being guilty, and the sentence reprimand in open Lodge. The brother
gave immediate notice of appeal to the Grand Lodge, which appeal, by
mutual consent, was subsequently dismissed. The brother has not ~t
any time appeared before the Lodl{e to submit to the sentence of reprimand, nor has he at any time indicated his intention to do so
"Question, 1-What was the brother's standing after the dismissal
of his appeal by the Grand Lodge?
"2-To restore himself to good standini;r, must he submit himself
to the sentence of 'reprimand in open Lodge'?
"3-Before such action on his part, can the Lodge accept payment
of dues tendered?
"4--Would such acceptance restore him to good standing?"
"Opinion !-His standing as a member of the Lodge was not :i-ffected by dismissal of his appeal by the Grand Lodge. beyond rendering
him subject to the penalty imposed by the trial commission.
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE:.

147

"2-T~e sentence of 'reprim.and in open Lodge' did not deprive him
of the privilege~ ?f Ma~onry while the sentence was pending, except that
whenever he v1S1ted his Lodge he was subject to the infliction of the
penalty.
;;3-The Lodge must accept payment of dues tendered.
4-The Lodge should summon him to appear to receive the sentence."
From the report of the Grand Secretary we obtain the informati~n that there are in the jurisdiction at this time 127 chartered Lodges,
with a total membership of 11,410, and that the Grand Jurisdiction is
growing at the rate of about 900 members a year.
There is on hand at the present time in the hands of the Grand
Treasurer, Grand Lodge assets to the value of $137,276.92, from which
it may be seen that financially the Grand Jurisdiction of Oregon is in
exceedingly sound condition.
The Grand Orator, w:. Brother Stephen A. Lowell, delivered the
annual address, largely historical in character, which was greatly appreciated by the Grand Lodge and ordered printed in the Proceedings.
On the second day of the Communication a delegation of ladies
from the Grand Chapter of the Eastern Star favored the Grand Lodge
with a visit; mutual felicitations were exchanged, and in the report of
the function we read :
'.'The Gran~ Matron, Mrs. Pauline Riley, thanked the Grand Lodge
for .1s fraternahsm and the courtesy of allowing the visitation and, in
closing, .Presented Mrs. Nellie Baldwin who, in a few well chosen and
appropriate remarks, presented to the Grand Lodge and the Grand Master, ~er husband, a large bouq.uet of red carnations.
. The Grand Master received the bouquet, and bestowed upon his
wife the fond embrace of love and affection amid the cheers of the
'
Grand Lodge and its visitors."
Our opinion has not been asked concerning these functions but
if it were we would venture to say that a body of females in a Grand
Lodge of Master Masons is out of place and that the "fond embraces of
love and affection" are more in keeping with the atmosphere of the fireside and hearthstone than in the mixed presence of a large body of
strange men, assembled from the four quarters of an American commonwealth like Oregon.
Our opinion, however, as stated, has not been asked, and the
above remarks may be considered obiter dictum.
The Grand Lodge was honored in the second day of the session
with a visit of M.' · w: · Fred J. Mock, Grand Master of Idaho. The
honorable brother was duly received ; he was welcomed by Grand
Master Baldwin and conducted to a seat in the East.
The election of Grand Officers resulted in the choice of Brother
George H. Burnett of No. 50 as Grand Master, and the re-election of
Brother James F. Robinson of No. 11 as Grand Secretary.

148

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.'. W.'. D. P.
Mason, Past Grand Master, chairman.
In his introductory remarks he truthfully say~ :
"The institution of Freemasonry should be sought, and not seek its ·
votaries, as I fear is too often t~e case, especially among some of the
younger element, who s~em .to thmk that nuf!!bers are absolutely essential to success; and while, m a sens~, that 1s true, yet those numbers
should never be acquired at the sacrifice of the non-observani;e of the
ancient usages, customs and landmarks of our venerable and time-honored institution."
California 1911 is favorably considered, with liberal quotations
from the Gra~d Ma~ter's report and Grand Orator Albert G. Burnett's
annual address, which is considered of a high order of merit.
M.'. W:. Geo. H. Burnett, Salem, elected Grand Master.,
R. ·. W.'. J as. F. Robinson, Portland, re-elected Grand Secretary.
PENNSYLVANIA, 1911.
A Quarterl~ Communication of the Gi:and Lodge was held in Philadelphia, March 1, 1911. M .'. W:. Grand Master of Free and. ~ccepted
Masons of New Brunswick, Brother Henry S. Bridges, v!Slted the , •
Grand Lodge at this time and was received with the customary honors ..
A special report from the Committee on Masonic Home was rendered, and recommendation made therein, which was adopted by the
Grand Lodge, for the purclia5e of certain additional parcels of land
in connection with the Masonic Home tract at Elizabethtown, Pa.
The w:. Master reported that he had appointed Brother James '
M. Lamberton as his deputy to attend the meeting of the Washington Memorial Association, he being unable to attend.
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge was · held in
Masonic Temple, in Philadelphia, on June 7, 1911.

In accordance with the report of the Com.mittee on Masonic Homes
the following resolutions were adopted :
"Resolved That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Pennsylvania ~atify and approve the action of ~he Committee on ~fa­
snnic Homes and award the contract for the Grand L?d1re .Hall at
Elizabethtown to John R. Wig!l'ins & Co., and that the R. · w. ·. Grand
Master be authorized to execute the necessary papers to carry this resolution into effect."
"Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Fr~e and Accepte? Masons of
Pennsylvania direct and empower the Committee on Masonic Homes. to
award the contracts for the power olant. laundry deoartment, heatmg
and ventilatin!l' svstem, conduits, railroad sidip1r. and other necessary
work and equipoing the same, to the lowest bidders, not to exceed the
sum bf $120 000.00 and that the R.'. W.'. Grand Master be authorized to
execute the' necessary papers to carry this resolution into effect.
.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

149

"Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted M·asons of
Pennsylvania ratify and approve the action of the Committee on Masonic Homes in expending not exceeding $60,000.00 for building a road
from the railroad to the 'Grand Lodge Hall' and Hospital, storm water
1ewers, grading ground, etc., and that the R.'. W .'. Grand Master be
authorized to execute the necessary papers to carry this resolution into
effect."
The wealth of the Grand Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania is such that
the appropriation of a few hundred thousand dollars, more or less,
is made without causing a ripple of comment.
Looking forward to the celebration of the one hundred and twentyfifth anniversary of the e;x:istence of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania in
September, Brother James ·M. Lamberton, Senior Grand Deacon, offered the following pr~amble and resolution, which were, on motion,
adopted :
" Whereas, Brother Field Marshal, His Royal Highness Arthur William Patrick Albert, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, K. G., etc. etc.,
M.'. w:. Grand Master of the Freemasons of England, has been appointed by His Majesty King George V, to be Governor-General of the
Dominion of Canada, and will enter upon his duties in September next:
"R esolved, That the R.'. w:. Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, which
formerly was a Provincial Grand Lodge under the Grand Lodge of
England, extends to the M.'. w:. Grand Master of England, an especially cordially and fraternal invitation to be present and participate
in the celebration in September next, of the !25th Anniversary of the
existence of this Grand Lodge, as a Sovereign and Independent Grand
Lodge."
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge was held at
Philadelphia, September 6, 1911. The principal feature of this Communication was the annual report of the Grand Secretary on the membership and the number of Lodges of the jurisdiction.
From this report we learn that at the close of the preceding year
there were 481 chartered Lodges, with a membership of 96,433, the net
gain in membership during the year being something in excess of 4,000.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held at Philadelphia, September 25, 1911, 358 Lodges being represented.
The Grand Lodge was honored by the presence of the following
Grand and Past Grand Officers of other jurisdictions:
"M.' . W.'. Grand Master of Virginia, Brother William B. McChesney;
"M.'. w:. Grand Master of New Hampshire, Brother Charles H .
Wiggin;
"M.' . w:. Grand Master of West Virginia, Brother Wyndham
Stokes;
"M. ·. w. ·. Grand Master of the District of Columbia, Brother J.
Claude Keiper;
"M.'. w:. Grand Master of Utah, Brother Gilbert B. Pfoutz;
"M.'. W.'. Grand Master of Delaware, Brother G. Layton Grier;

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

150

"M.'. W:. Past Grand Master of Michigan, Brother G. Roscoe
Swift (representing his Grand Master);
·
"M.".
Past Grand Master of Washington, Brother Royal A.
Gove (representing his Grand Master);
. .
"R.'. W:. Senior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of Ilhno1s,
Brother Henry Thompson Burnap (representing his Grand Master);
"M.'. w .. Past Grand Master of West Virginia, Brother Braxton
D. Gibson, and
.
"R.'. W.'. Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut,
Brother Frank W. Havens (representing his Grand Mast~r)."
"This Sp,ecial Communication of the qrand Lodge havmg been held,
to comply with the preambles and resolutions adopted at the Quarterly
Communication held September 7, A. D. 1910, A. L. 5910, to celebrate
the One Hundr~d and Twenty-fifth Anniversary of the Independence '<?f
this Grand Lodge. R .'. W .'. Grand Master Brother George W. Guth rte
then proceeded with a programme, which had been prepared by the
Committee for this occasion."
The following letter of regret from the President of the United
States was read :
"B.EV!lRLY, MAss., Sept. 8, 1911.
"My Dear Mr. Guthrie:
"I am very sorry that I am prevented from attending your celebra:-.
tion in Philadelphia on September 25th.
"I had hoped to be present on this occasion, but on account of my
Western trip I shalt have to forego that pleasure.
.
"Please be good enough to convey to my Pennsylvania brethren an
expression of my sincere regret in not being able to be with you and
of my best wishes for a _pleasant occasion.
"Sincerely and fraternally yours,
•
"WM. H. TAFT."

w:.

Addresses were then made by His Excellency the Governor of
Pennsylvania, Brother John K. Tener, and each of the visiting Gran~
and Past Grand Officers of other jurisdictions, and R. · · W · · · Past •
Grand Masters of this jurisdiction, Brothers Edgar A. Tennis, George
W. Kendrick, Jr., and George B. Orlady.
After the closing of the Grand Lodge, the brethren, numbering
about 570, proceeded to the Grand Banquet Hall (to which the main
corridor was annexed for accommodation), where an elegant banquet
was partaken of, during which the brethren were pleased to listen to
the rendition of a beautiful musical program arranged for the occasion.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge was held in Philadelphia, October 23d, to conduct the 'Masonic burial service for the
deceased R.'. W .'. Grand Secretary William A. Sinn, who was connected for a great many years in an official capacity with the M.' · W.' ·.
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania and had been Grand Secretary since

1896.
Eulogistic remarks were made by R.'. W .'. Past Grand Master
Brother George B. Orlady, R.'. W .'. Past Grand Master Brother
George W. Kendrick, Jr., and the Grand Chaplain, Brother James W.
Robins.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

J51

A Quarterly Communication was held at Philadelphia, December
6, 1911. Four hundred and thirty-th.ree Lodges were represented.
At this Communication reports of the various charity and financial
boards were rendered, examination of which discloses the fact that the
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania is possessor directly and indirectly of
properties that aggregate in value $3,887,910.SS.
A full and complete report was rendered at this time by the Committee on Masonic Homes.
The corner-stone of the principal building in the Masonic Home
aroup of buildings was laid' by the Grand Lodge at the time of the celebration of the one hundred and twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding
of the Grand Lodge.
The contract for this building called for an expenditure of about
$400,000, and from the report of the Committee on Masonic Home it
nppears that excellent progress is being made and that the establishment
will be open for the reception of guests of the Grand Lodge probably
within the year.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge was held December 27th.
Grand Master Guthrie, in his annual address, severely rebukes the
use of Masonry for political purposes, as will appear from what he says
upon this subject, as follows:
"In the late political campaign, some members of the fraternity, forgetful of their obligations, attempted to make use of their Masonic connection to promote their political interests.
"In some of the cases the candidates advertised their membership
in Symbolic Lodjles and in other Masonic bodies, in circulars which
they themselves distributed to the public; in others, while the adver·
tisement was as objectionable in form, the candidates gave me theit
personal assurance that the publication was made by their supporters,
without their knowled!le or authority.
" In one case in Susquehanna County, and in another in Berks
County, the candidates issued and distributed printed circulars, in
which the names, addresses and locations of the various Masonic
bodies to which they belonged were fully recited.
"When these circulars were called to my attention I notified the
candidates that they must be immediately recalled, and instructed the
District Deputy Grand Masters in the respective counties to visit each
Lodge under their jurisdiction and instruct the brethren that such conduct was unmasonic and deserved the condemnation of every sincere
Mason.
.
"Almost immediately after this occurrence, my attention was called
to publications in three papers in the city of Philadelphia, in which
in different articles recommending certain candidates to support their
Masonic connections were set forth at lenp;th.
"One of these publications was in a 'Masonic' paper, in which a
whole page was devoted to the advocacy of the interest of a certain
candidate, his Masonic relations and character being specially dwelt
upon.

152

REPORT ON CORRESPOND..!NCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"The others, in two papers, both published in West Philadelphia,
were equally objectionable.
.
"Any member of the fraternity whose Masonry is more than a
name knows that such conduct as this is unmasonic.
"It is not permissible for a Mason to use his Masonic membership
to promote his personal interests either in ·business or in politics.
"A brother convicted on a charge of attempting to use the fraternity for any such purposes could, and should, be expelled from Masonry; and every earnest, faithful Mason should show his condemnation of such conduct by every means in his power.
"We cannot be too vigilant and severe in checking such attempts to
use the fraternity improperly.
"If we permit the fraternity to be used for any selfish purposes,
particularly if we permit to to be dragged into the bitterness of partisan politics, we invite the condemnation of all right-thinking men.
"To permit such actions to go unrebuked will furnish a precedent
for further abuses, and will inevitably do more to injure our ancient and
honorable fraternity than years of faithful and unselfish devotion can
rectify.
"When the improper act is done by unwise supporters, without.
the personal knowledge or consent of the candidate, of course he cannot be held personally responsible ; but it is his duty promptly to repudiate the action, so that the guilty parties, if Masons, shall receive
the punishment which their offense deserves."
A condition somewhat similar to that described as follows by Grand
Master Guthrie in his address has been known to exist in this, and.
doubtless other Grand Jurisdictions, a condition that is always deplorable and one of extreme difficulty to deal with:
"A short time ago my attention was called to the fact that the •
affairs of one of the Lodges meeting in this Temple were in very bad
condition. The peace and harmony which should i;Jrevail among
brethren had entirely disappeared. The meetings were characterized by
the grossest recriminations; and on at least one occasion the conduct
of the members was disorderly, so much so that the Master would have·
been justified in taking possession of the warrant and closing the
Lodge.
·
"The main cause of the trouble
was the black ball. Several petitioners had been rejected; their friends were very bitter and resentful and had resorted to various expedients to expose the brother who
had "The
cast the
black ball.
condition
was so serious-threatening, as it did, the very life
of a Lodge with a long and honorable record, and endangering the
good Masonic standing of many innocent brethren-that I felt compelled to visit the Lodge, and give to its various officers and members
a fraternal
"I am warning.
informed that the visitation has produced the effect which

I desired, and that peace is restored.
"The brethren must understand that a secret ballot is one of the
unchangeable landmarks of the fraternity.
"Every brother has the right to cast a black ball, and it is bis
duty to do so whenever, after proper inquiry, he is satisfied that a petitioner
"If isa unworthy.
brother casts a black ball from an unworthy and unmasonic
motive, he is guilty of gross unmasonic conduct, but he is not answerable to any human jurisdiction for his action.

163

"He must answer to. his
·
unless he voluntarily discloses ~~nf c~nscdnce, but i;iot to the Lodge,
"No one has the right to tr ac . an reveal! his reasons.
In any manner or by any device yh to mvade the secrecy of the ballot
initted to indulge m any attackw atever i nor should a brother be perbnll.
s upon a supposed user of the black
"Theat secret
is one but
of thI e bgl.eat sahfeguards of ~reemasonry.
It may
times ballot
be misused.
hnrm has been done in the 'ast b e ieve t at as much, if not more
the white ball than by the i!:i
Y the careless and ill-advised use of
"H
h
proper use of the black ball
·
owever t at may be th I d
n.bs~rved, and all attem ts t~ in~ an marks of the fraternity
must be
llnud~te the brethren i~ the use ~dt t~he bleckc~ pf the ballot or to innncl, 1£ necessary, punished in the f et ac ah,. must be restrained
pnst."
'
u ure as t ey have been in th~

In reference to the right of the M ·
halloting, the Grand Master h ti . aster to excuse a brother from
as us to say ·
"The Master has the power t
wh~n a proper reason is iven o ~x~use .a brother from balloting
believe that the application gis <luetot him j ~ut wh~n he has reason to
the ballot in the slightest de ree ~ a ~ es1re to mva<le the secrecy of
"uch a result, it must be ref~sed'." o1 will have a teooency to produce
Among Grand Mast e r Gl1 th rte
· ' s dcc1srnns
· ·
a re the f II ·
"An officer o( a Lod
.
o owtng :
rig'ht to correspond with
sGbordmatc to this Grand Lodge has no
Masonic subjects#.vithout th: a:tt~o~it~o~ethof (~not1er jurisdiction on
"It is the law in th' · .' d' .
e .ram Master.
l>c opened on Sunday £~~ 'a~;s p~;poio~ thaht .'t1 Masonic Lodge mu~t not
"If fu
e w a ever.
a meet
nera 1atof the
n deceased
hers may
Lodge hr oti ie.r · ca II eel for Sunday, the 111l'111
Funeral, but a Lodge must not b~omop enc
an cl .'proceed from there to the

rh

Id

~he R.eport on Foreign Correspondence
is b
.
.
ton, 111 which California 1910 .. f 11
.
y J,1mes M. Lamhercxtensively and with a;prova'I i;r~ Yti:ev;:we:. The rcvicwe~ quotes
po t of the Committee on
the Status of Masonry in th Ph'! ' .
.
e
' 1ppme ]~lands.
And m connection with th
b'
.
Rite . Masonry he gives in hi e su. iect £touch.mg t.hc origin of ScottiMh
.
.
s review o Cahfor111·1 ·1 •
f h .
certamly, as he state~, one of the old t . f
' ' ce>py o w at ts
prior to 18'.ll was called S 11'
Mes • I not the oltlei1t, 1:iatcnt of what,
·
u J 1me asonry and aftc th t ·
'
and Accepted
Scottish
Rite
M
'
r f th'
n time Ancient
.
.
asonry. the ' original
.
t 1e library of the Crand L cl
f p'
.
o
is patent 1s in
I
0 ge o
.
'
ennsylvanm.
~his p~tent may be of interest to investigator~ along the line~ of
Scottish Rite Masonry and for ti . henetit we quote it in full, as
follows :
'
1e1 r
28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCK

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENClt.

164

"HEALTH. STABILITY AND POWER.
·By the Glory of Ye Grand Architect of the Universe.

, .

.

. Lux Ex Tenebris.

"From the East of the Grand of the Most Puissant Council of

th~ Most Valiant Princes and (and) Sublime Masons of the Royal

Secret, · &c. &c. &c. under the Celestial Canopy of the zl:NITH which
answers to 39 Degrees 40 M. N. L.
"To our JLLUSTRIOUS and Most Valiant .Knights and Princes of
Free Accepted and Perfect Masons of all Degrees over the Surface of
the two Hemispheres.
·
"Wt. Mosi:s M. HAYS Gr'd. El'r. Perf't. and Sub'me Mason
Knight of the East and Prince of Jerusalem &c. &c. &c. Pat'r. N oach'te
Sovereign Knight of the Sun and K - -·- H &c. &c. &c. Dept'y Insp'tr
General over all Lodges, Chapters, Councils and Grand Councils of
the Superior Degrees of Ancient and Modern Free Masonry over 'the
Surface of the two Hemispheres. By Patent from the Grand Council•
of Princes of Masons at New York in North America &c. &c. &c. under
the special protection .of the Most Puissant Princes and in their Place
and Stead DO c£RTIFY AND ATTI:ST to all free and Valiant Princes of
Masons of Free and Accepted Masons &c. &c. &c. That our Dear
Brother ABRAHAM FoRST late ,of the City of London now Merchant of
. the City of Philadelphia, in the State or Prov.ince of Pennsylvania,
North America, is known and approved Master Mason.
'·
"Lodge Gr'd. El'r. Perf't. and Sub'me Mason Knight of the East
and Prince of Jerusalem &c. &c. &c. and that having on the
· · ·
sustained the Brightness of. the Grand Luminary and
giving us the Most Solid Proof of ·his fervency, constancy
··
of the ·Royal Craft and of his submission to the
Supreme Tribunal of the Sovereign Princes · of the Royal Secret we
have initiated him Patriarch N oachites Sovereign Knight of the Sun
and K - H , and further to the highest Degree in Masonry and
being. convinced of his Abilities in the Royal Art and to recompense him
for his Assiduity and the Trouble he has taken to come to the perfection of all Degrees in Masonry we have consented to Grant, Consti- ·
tute and Appoint our said Dear Brother Abraham Forst by these Presents, Deputy Inspector and Grand Master of and over all Lodges of
the Royal Arch Gr'd. El'r. and Perf't. Masons Councils or Knights of
the East and Princes of Jerusalem, &c. &c. &c. Grand Councils of
Knights of the Sun and K - - H &c. &c. &c. and hereby give him
foll Power to Constitµte todges of Royal Arch and Perfection also
Councils and Grand Councils of Knights of the East and Princes of
Jerusalem &c. &c. &c. also Grand Chapters of Sovereign Knights of
the Sun and K--- H in the States or Province of VIRGINIA in
North America within the Distance of twenty-five Leagues of any
such Lodge or Chapter, Council or Grand Council already regularly
established and constituted. AND that he the said Abraham Forst in all
things shall fully conform and behave himself to all the Rules,· Statutes
and Laws conformable to all the different Degrees and this Our Patent.
"WI: TH£RllFOR1' pray all .the Respectable Brethren Knights and.Princes
of Masons to receive our said Dear Brother Abraham Forst in his
respectable Qualities and· to entertain him favorably in every thing
relative to them. Wi: promise to have the same Regard to those who
shall present themselves to our Lodge and Grand Council furnished
with proper and Authentic Title~.

"To W-HI~H WE MosEs ' M. HAYS have hereunto subscribed " O
Nnme and ~£fixed Our Seal at Arms and also the Grand Seal Qf Princur

~~c ~!h~ldi~~ ~~e!ii'i~he filru~ ~~hGc~~f~~i°}o~r=~duAr

kare 1ersit:d
of all that's Great and Good near the BB this Ni th Dc now e gment
tnth Month called Nissan of the year 7781 andn of t~y
the S~v2351 and the Vulgar era the Fourth day of April 1781. e estora~ton
"Mosl!s M. HAYS Pr. Mns.
"Dy. Gd. Inspr. Geri'!."
. .
Wilham L. Gorgas, Philadelphia, elected Gra~d Master.
John A. Perry, Philadelphia, elected Grand Secretary.

!l

PRINCE EDWARD ISLAND, 1911.
A portrait of M.". w:. Brother H C MacDonald th
1
elected Gran d Mas t er, forms the frontispiece
· ·to the Proceedings.
'
e new Y
, The _Grand Officers, Pas~ Gi:and Officers an! representatives of
lhc constituent Lodges of Ancient Free and Accepted M: s
f p ·
lluward Island assembled in the Masonic Hall in the toa
rmce
wnonsf
o oS ummer1Id
e,
at
1
0
a.
m.,
on
Wednesday
June
28
A
D
1911
·
d
·1 h
· ·
'
' · ·
, m accor ance
Wit 1 t e provmons. of the Constitution and By-Laws fo th
t'
·f
hold'
th
Th'
·
·
•
r :M
e pu
pose
·
mg e
1rty-s1xth Annual Communication of th
· W
·
Grand Lod_g~ of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of Pr~ce E.dwa~d
laland-W1lham Stewa~t, Grand Master, presiding.
Grand Master Stewart, in the opening portion ,..;
"W
~t ht's add ress, says ..
h 'G'
e have abundant cause of thankfulness t
of prosperity with which .Jree
fyent of last
in
11vei: a. demonstration of loyalty and devotion whichng an
ueenndnurat1011 and sympathy of the whole . T d
Id. has evoked t~e
ut peace with the world. and ros erit c1h1a1ze wor ' our country ts
tt
of
fulfill~en~gof- th:~~o;h~~~ ilia~ ~:tl~;~asth!fl\:: the beginning of the
thal t peace on earth and good will to all manki~
npo m?[e, Oand
. r~vat .
ur
bc oved order has added another successful
our membership has shown a satisfac o . year to it~ ~1story, and
Ju rdisgdeictiond the most bfraternal and
0wunr
l.
s an ofour
0
feel
proud
themem
Crafters
" ' and on th e wh0 Ie we have many reasons to

h~~d'e!i°;ir~he(~gntih!-Jhnce
has'bl~s~e~ ~!'
week~~he ~iroa;:tig~o~1 i~r bb!I~!!d ~~ t~eQhistori~
~et~ej~ce

te prospe~t a~bitr~tioii' bet!e~~~:ee~ik~~e~~~~f~~~e:~
:iii

co:drii ~~la~i~~~ e~i;hb~t~~:n °

.

?r~ n~ ~a~ter Stewart, during his incumbency as head of the Craft

111
I his Jttrtsd1chon, paid a visit to Mexico' and h'ts

remark s upon MexMasonry are iqteresting, and inasmuch as they are the observations
on the
and thoughtful Mason, they are worthy
f
I ground
d
. of a trained
.
o perusa an are quoted ~n full as follows :
~a n

1

.

t1~d;~dNe;aZl~i~g·
Mexidabn Masonrye it.eshi;te ~:Ug:.dvr:1i~ft~d~T~~f{c;
·
w1ce an
ecame acquamted with some very estimable
"While down in Mexico I had th

d

166

REPORT ON CORRESPONDttMCtt.

brethren, who ha:ve nob1y stood up for the best in Engllsh Masonry
and have resisted 1"ith considerable self-sacrifice the tendehcy in ctttillft
sections to obliterate the old lahdmarks. These brethren deser\lt the
tordial and fraternal asslstanee of the Engli&h Masons throttgholtt the
world.
"T1'e Grand Lodge of Valle de Mexico has had some vety pecullU
conditions to contend with, arid while as these conditions existed up Ill
a little over a year ago, this Grand Lodge was perhaps wise in not
hurrying to exchange representatives and extend recognition, a different state. of affairs is now rapidly developing thrnugh the efforts of
the English Masons.
·
.
"At the Grand Lodge, 1910, some twenty-three Lodges were represented, the American and English element being largely in 'the ascendant.
"At the election of officers the Mexicah .element became disgruntle<J and the representatives of seven Lodges left in a body. The
retnainder ptoceeded to carry through the business and complete -the
session. The brother, however; who was elected and installed Grand
Secretary, after the session took all records, etc.1 and went over to his
M.exican brethren, who later formed up as a Gr3;nd Lodge, appropri~
attng the name of 'Valle de Mexico,' and attempting to leave the majority of the Lodges without any real Grand Lodge. These Lodgc&i
which are really the legitimate Orand Lodges of Mexico, have now
taken .the name of 'York Grand Lodge of Mexico.'
"That they will be in a much better position than formerly to do
good work there can be no doubt, nor is there any doubt that the Eniilish and American residents are working as conscientiously and ehthttsiastically as we are, but unfortunately they have been handicapped · by
the Mexican element, whose ideals and aspirations seem more in . line
with what is generally knowri as Latin Masonry."

w:.

R.'.
W. P . Doull, Grand Secretary, Is also chairman of the
Committee on Foreign Correspondence, and, while he makes no revie#
of other Grand Jurisdictions, certain of his remarks, embodied in. his
report, may be of Interest, and we quote from his report as follows :
"Literature in one form or another has also been received from the
following jurisdictions with whom we are not in fraternal intercourse;
Brazil, Italy, Spain, San Salvador, Uruguay, France (Gr. Orient), Portugal Switzerland, Turkey, Valle de Mexico.
.:These are all more or less in line with what is generally termed
Latin Masonry, and may probably for t~e present all be disposed of
with a passing mention, except Valle de Mexico.
"There are several Grand Lodges (or bodies calling themselves
Grand Lodges) in Mexico. Several have applied to us for recognition
in former years. Their applications have been laid on the table for
future action. There does not yet appear any urgent need of their
being takeh up. The Grand Lodge of Valle de Mexico would appear
to be an exception. It has passed through peculiar and trying expe..
riences artd is now in a better position than ever before. Trouble cul·
minated a year ago.' The Mexican element withdrew, and afterward
formed a Grand Botly of their own. The majority of the Lodges
which formerly composed the Grand Body called Valle de Mexico
now compose a body called the York Grand Lodge of Mexico. These
are the Engli~h and American brethren. Their change of name was
rendered necessary ~ the circumstances of the seceders having appi'o-priated the old name.

REPO~T ON CORRE$PONDENCE.

157

The total rpembership of this jurisdiction is now 737, the year before 731, the entire jurisdiction being numerically considerably less than
Mission Lodge in our jurisdiction.
Hector C. MacDonald, Charlottetown, elected Grand Master.
W. P. Doull, Charlottetown, re-elected Grand Secretary.
QUEBEC, 1912.
A Special Communication of the Grand Lodge of Quebec, A. F.
nnd A. · M., was held the 14th day of October, 1911, in the Masonic Temple, Dorchester street, Montreal, for the purpose of proceeding to
Mount Royal Cemetery aqd there unveiling the monument erected by
the Grand Lodge to the memory of the late Lieutenant-Colonel John
I !cider Isaacson, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge for thirty-two
Yl'ars and honorary Past Grand Master.
Brother Isaacson was one of the foremost characters in the Grand
r.odge of Quebec for a great many years, and the esteem in which he
was held 'by the fraternity may be judged from a brief quotation from
the remarks concerning him made by the R:.
Brother Will H.
Whyte, Grand Secretary:

w:.

"In 1894, at the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Grand Lodge, he
was made an Honorary Past Grand Master.
"He was a member of all the leading branches of the Craft, but his
Jrreat interest and life's work was in Craft Masonry.
"All admired his devotion to the Craft, which continued with him
until the end. \he rectitude of his. conq~ct, earnest devotion to duty,
Rnd above all, his R"entle, lovable d1spos1t1on, endeared him to all the
hrethren. Always the gentleman, always the Mason he ever threw the
broad mantle of a Mason's charity around all with ~horn he wa~ compelled to disagree, nor did he ever utter any disagreeable or slirhting
word about any one, and so no wonder, my brethren, we still

"'Mourn the touch of a vanished hand,
And the sound of a voice that is still.' "

w:.

The M:.
the GraIJd Lodge of Quebec, Ancient Free and
Accepted M'asona, held its forty-se1:-0n4 Annual Communication in the
city of Montreal, in the Province of Quel!ec, on the 14th day of Febru'ry, f\.. D. 1912, A. L. 5912, at the Masonic Temple, Dorchester street- ·
~: · W: · Gran<J Master ~ev. Frank Charters, D. C. L, presiding in the
Grand East.
The method of opening the Grand Lodge differs somewhat from
the u~u;1-I procedµre and is similar to the ope11ing useq by the Grand
Lodge .of Maryl31-1d.
The following par~raph describes the Grand Lodge opening:
. ."The Deputy G~and Ma?ter ~aving taken his position and ascertammg that the various stat>ons in Grand Lodge were occupied and
that a constitutional number of Lodges were represented, called Grand

159

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPO~DENCE.

Lodge to order, whereupon the M.". w:. the Grand Master, pre>!!
ceded by his Grand Director of Ceremonies and District Deputy Grallill
Masters, and accompanied by the M.". w:. the Grand Past Mastera
present, entered, and, having assumed his chair, the Grand Lodge was
opened in Ample Form."

sion to present, on behalf of the Lodge, jewels to three of the charter
members.
Concernin.g the meeting, he says that it was .undoubtedly the most
enthusiastic meeting of an individual Lodge ever held in the city of
Montreal.
The membership at this Communication was shown by the Grand
Secretary's report to be 7,021, a net increase of nearly 400 over the preceding year.
The invested assets of the Grand Lodge are shown by the Grand
Treasurer's report to amount to $59,418.60.
The reports of the various District Deputy Grand Masters disclose
sound and healthful conditions throughout the jurisdiction and clearly
indicate that the great work of Masonry in the jurisdiction of Quebec
is going forward in a gratifying and satisfactory manner.
The election of officers resulted in ,the choice for another term of
the M.". w:. Brother Rev. Frank Charters, as Grand Master, and the
R . ·. w. ·. Brother Will H. Whyte as Grand Secretary. The Report on
Foreign Correspondence is by E. T. D. Chambers, Past Grand Master.

)58

The Grand Master, in his annual address, cnocerning the new
Governor-General says :
"One of the important and very interesting events of the past
was the advent of His Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught
Canada's first Royal Governor. The people of Canada appreciate high
the fact that he is the son of the ever-to-be-revered Queen Victoria.
and the brother of our late King Edward VII. To this is addeq to our
interest as Masons the fact that he is the reigning Grand Master of the
Mother Grand Lodge of England. As citizens and Masons we extend
to him a most loyal and cordial greeting."

ycl

Concerning R.". w:. Brother William J. Hughan, deceased, ~he
Grand Master says :
"R.". w:. Brother William J. Hughan, England's famous historian,
and an honorar:v Past Grand Senior Warden of this Grand Lodge, died
at his home in Torquay, England, in May last. His death is a de<lide,.
loss to the Craft the world over. His life was spent in tracing out. the
early history of our Craft, and the resurrection of many of the· oldtime ancient charges and regulations was due to his persistent research.
He was a strong supporter and admirer of the Grand Lodge of
Quebec, which was delighted to do him honor thirty years ago."
The Grand Master was pleased to call the attention of the Grand
Lodge to the progress of the Craft during the year in the following
language:
"You will, I am sure. have great satisfaction in learning from
the reports of the Grand Treasurer. the Grand Secretary and the District Deputy Grand Masters that we have had a year of real progressthat there has been harmony in all the departments of our work. an<I
that the net increase in members is the largest in the history of our
Grand Lodge, as is also the increase in our financial strength."
Of thi; Isaacson monument he says :
"One of the most interesting. and, to myself, satisfactory, duties
which has devolved upon me during the year was the u11veiling of a
handsome monument in Mount Royal Cemetery on October 14th last to
the memory of M.". W:. Brother John Helder Isaacson, honorary
Grand Master, and for so many years our revered Grand
Secretary. May his labors and earnest love and affection for our fraternity be ever remembered by his brethren for all time to come, and
the example of his zeal be a constant incentive to earnest effort."
·

In recounting his official visitations during the year, he refers particularly to the visit made by him on November 7, 1911, to Royal Victoria Lodge No. 57 of Montreal. The occasion was the thirty-fifth
anniversary of this Lodge, and on this visit he was accompanied by
no less than six Past Grand Masters. He was permitted on the occa-

In his "introduction" his reference to the new Governor-General of
Canada and the fact that he is the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of .England is as follows:
"Canadian Masons have felt a justifiable pride in the appointment
of the Grand Master of England, H . R. H. the Duke of Connaught, as
their Governor-General. His Royal Highness the late Duke pf Kent .
and His late Majesty King Edward VII, both of whom were qr~nd
Masters of the Grand Lodge of England and Wa_les, had ~!so v1s1te.d
Canada and the United States, but in each case tins w.as prior to thetr
election as Grand Master. The Duke of Con!1~ught 1s, the:.e fore, t~e
first Grand Master of English Freemasons to v1s1t and to reside on this
side of the Atlantic, but following the precedent in ~egard to Masonry
set by His Majesty King Edward V~I upon asc~ndmg the .Throne, tt
would not be reasonable to ~xpect His R<?y.al Htp.;hness, while .occupying the post of Governor~General, to participate m any Masomc function." _
California, 1911, is briefly considered.
The Forty-third Annual CotPmunication of the Grand Lodge of
Quebec, A. F. and A. M., will be held in the city of Montreal on
·
Wednesday, the 12rh day of February, 1913.
Rec. Frank Charters, D. C. L., Montreal, re-elected Grand Master.
Brother Will H . Whyte, Montreal, re-elected Grand Secretary.

"

160

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

RHODE ISLAND, 1911.
An excellent picture of Henry W . Rugg, Grand Master, forms
the frontispiece of the Proceedings.
.
An Emergent Communication of the Grand Lodge of Rhode Island
was convened in Freemasons' Hall, Providence, Monday, July 25, 1910,
and was opened by the R .'. W.' . Deputy Grand Master, Brother James
B. Gay, presiding in the East.
Concerning this Special Communication, the Grand Secretary says':
"The R.'. w : . Deputy Grand Master announced that the Grand
Lodge had been called together in Emergent Communication for -the
purpose of paying the last tribute of respect to the memory of our
Brother Henry Warren Rugg, . M.'. w:. Grand Master of Masons.
He stated further that Brother Rugg had expressed the wish that there
should be no unnecessary display at his funeral. His wishes were that
the officers of the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar of the
United States, of which body he was the M.'. E . '. Grand Ma~ter, should
perform the Knights Templar funeral service over his remains and
that the officers of the Grand Lodge of Rhode Island would render the
Masonic burial office at the grave.
"Brother Gay spoke feelingly of the active, useful life which the
Grand Master had lived, and of the great loss which had come, not
alone to our fraternity but to the church and the entire community as
..
well, by his death.
" Past Grand Master Presbrey also spoke of the life and character
of the deceased, after which the service for the Lodge room was read.
"The procession was formed and the brethren passed to the street, .
where they took carriages and were conveyed to the Church of the
. Mediator, the church over which Brother Rugg had been the l?astor
for so many years previous to his retirement from active service in
the ministry and to which his mortal remains were now brought pre- '
vious to their being consigned to the grave.
"Religious servies were held, conducted by Rev. Henry I. Cushman,
pastor emeritus of the First Universalist Church, and Rev. Dr. ~. W,
Hamilton, president of Tufts' College, of which institution Brother Rugg
·
was at the time of his death the secretary.
"The Knights Templar service for the dead was impresslvel7 rendered by Brother William B. Melish of Cincinnati, Ohio, It. . E.'
Deputy Gradn Master of the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar
of the United States."
· The Gra11d Lodge of the Most Ancie!lt and Honorable Society of
Free and Accepted Masons for the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations was convened in Semi-Annual Com1t1unication in
Frcemas.o n's Hall, Providence, on the 21st day of November, A. L.
5910, and was opened in Due · Form at 10 o'clock a. m., the R.' . W .'.
Senior Grand Warden, Brother Wendell R. Davis, presiding in the
East. The station of the Senior Grand Warden was filled by Brother
]. Fred Parker, R.'. W.'. First District Deputy Grand Master.
A letter from the daughter of Past Grand Master Rugg, deceased,
was presented and read; expressing the deep appreciation of the family
for the kindness of the Grand Lodge shown to the family in its great

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
0

161

o>rrow, and conveying their appreciation for the tribute of respect paid

1° 1 the memory of the deceased.

The Masonic books owned by Past Grand Master Rugg were pre·i rnted by the family to the Grand Lodge, and the thanks of the Grand
1.odge were properly and officially conveyed to the family for their gen'rous gift.
Concerning the matter of endorsing the proposition to build a
Masonic Memorial to the memory of George Washington, the following resolution, presented by Arthur H. Armington, Past Grand Master,
was adopted :
"Voted, That the matter of endorsing the proposition to build a
Masonic Memorial to the memory of George Washington is hereby
referred to a special committee to be appointed by the acting Grand
Master, and satd committee is hereby authorized, in its discretion, to
nppoint a representative of the Grand Lodge to attend the meeting of
the Masonic Memorial Association to be held on February 22d next."
An appropriation of $500 was made by the Grand Lodge and
donated to the Henry Warren Rugg monument and memorial fund, in
charge of the Grand Encampment of the Knights Templar, U. S. A.
The Grand Lodge of the Most Ancient and Honorable Society of
Free and Accepted Masons for the State of Rhode Island and Providrnce Plantations assembled in Annual Communication in Freemasons'
11 all, in the city of Providence, on the 15th day of May, A. L. 5911,
nnd was opened in due form at 10 o'clock a. m., the R.'. w:. Deputy
<~rand Master, Brother James B. Gay, presiding in the East. There were
present other officers and members of the Grand Lodge and representatives from thirty-one Lodges.
The R:'.
Deputy Grand Master, James B. Gay, acting Grand
Master, presented his annual report, covering in a busin~ss-tike way
the transactions of the Grand Lodge during the year, dwelling particularly upon the death in the year of Grand M~ster Rugg.
From the Grand Secretary's report we le;un til;lt a net gain in
membership was made during the year of 347 advancing the total membership to 7,811.

w:.

James Bacon Gay, ;f'wvidence, Grand Master.
S. Penrose Williams, Providence, Grand Secretirf.
SASKATCHEWAN, 1912.
The Sixth Annu~ Co!Jlmunic~io11 of the Grand Lodge of .S askatchewan, A. F. and A. M., was held in the Masonic Temple, Prince
Albert, commencing Wednesday, the 19th day of June, A. D. 1912,
A. L. 5912-M. ·. W. '. Bmther William Hopkins on the throne.

163

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In opening his annual address, the Grand Master says :
"It is a pleasure to me to announce that this Grand Lodge continues
to prosper. The increased membership of the past year has been astonishing, and I am led to believe that with but few exceptions, the very
best men in the Province are being received into our institution. I
believe that the moral teachings of Masonry are having an effect on
not only the Masons of our Province, but on the citizens as well. It
is not to be wondered that Masonry is increasing in our great country,
and apart from Masonry our Province is increasing and developing with
greater strides than" any other part of the Dominion. It must be g·ratifying to us to know that we are living in such a favored section of the
Universe, and we trust that while our prosperity continues we will not
forget those who are in need of our aid and benevolence.
"Last year we had a total of 83 Lodges, 65 under charter and 18
under dispensation. We now have a total of 94 Lodges, 77 under charter, and 17 under dispensation. Our membership last year was about
4,000. It is at the present time 4,500, and it should be gratifying to the
Grand Lodge to know that we are making such rapid progress."

Lodges may be judged from the following paragraphs from his review
of California:
"One Lodge asked that it be made lawful for any Lodge to exercise
its option as to whether wines, etc., might be used at Masonic banquets,
which request was refused.
"In our remarks we have frequently objected to Grand Bodies
encroaching on the rights of private Lodges, and to our mind, this is
a case in point. Personally, we are opposed to the use of any liquor
at such functions, but we deny the right of any Grand Lodge to compel by Legislation."

162

Resolutions of congratulation and loyalty were, by order of the
Grand Lodge, transmitted to Their Majesties King George V and
Queen Mary of England, as follows:
"Resolved, That this Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan, A. F. ind .A.
M., at its fifth Annual Communication, hereby offer their heartfelt congratulations to Their Majesties King George the Fifth and Queen Mary
on their coronation ; and express their devotion and loyalty to the
Crown, and hope and pray that they may long be spared to rule and
govern this mighty Empire."
·
From the following paragraph, taken from the report of the Committee on Charters and New Lodges, we judge that Masonry is going
ahead at a rapid pace ·in the jurisdiction of Saskatchewan:
"Twelve dispensations have been issued during the last year for new
Lod~es. Eleven of these have been instituted. Six dispensations were
continued from last year, making seventeen under dispensation at the •
present time."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by R.'. W .'. Brother
Arthur S. Gorrell, elected at this Communication Grand Master. It
contain·s a review of California, 1911.
Concerning the charity work in California, as shown in the reports
of the various Boards of Relief, the reviewer comments as follows :
"The reports of the Boards of Relief reveal the fact that the practice of unostentatious charity continues, and the necessity and reason for
their existence thereby demonstrated. No practical illustration of the·
universality of Masonry could be more apparent than the statements
in the reports of the various boards showing the diversity of territory
from which come many of the recipients of relief. This labor of love
has been mostly admirably performed, and reflects honor and glory
upon the workers and upon our fraternity."
That the chairman of the Correspondence Committee believes in a
larger measure of local self-government as applied to subordinate

Brother Gorrell's report throughout shows a marked degree of
ability in the comments which he frequently makes and discrimination
in selections for quotations.
Arthur S. Gorrell, Regina, Grand Master.
John M. Shaw, Regina, re-elected Grand Secretary.
SCOTLAND, 1912.
A Quarterly Communication was held at St. Cuthbert's Hall, Edinburgh, February 1, 1912-the M.'. H.". the Marquis of Tuillibardine,
Grand Master, on the throne.
The Grand Master, in his address, refers to the death of Brother
Dr. W . Dashwood Kingdon at the age of ninety-eight years. Brother
Kingdon was initiated in Lodge Canongate, Kilwinning, Edinburgh No.
2, on March 7, 1837, and he states that Dr. Kingdon was probably the
oldest Freemason in the world, having been a member of the Craft for
nearly seventy-five years.
There is a living Past Grand Master, Brother Mitchell, of the
Jurisdiction of Michigan, who is now ninety-six years old, and we trust
will at least reach a hundred and surpass Dr. Kingdon in the years of
his Masonic membership.
The following amendment to the Constitution was proposed·
"No brother of any Lodge on the roll of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, or whose diploma as a Master Mason issues from Grand Lodge,
shall take part in or be concerned with the working or promulgation in
any manner of way of any degree, or rite, or order, purporting to be
Masonic, which is not .authorized by Grand Lodge, or by one of the
other. Masonic Grand Bodies with whom Grand Lodge is in amity; and
any brother acting in breach hereof, or who shall join or countenance
any body or society, purporting to be Masonic, not sanctioned by Grand
Lodge or other Masonic Grand Body in amity with it, shall be liable
to suspension or expulsion either at the instance of his Lodge'" or at the
instance of Grand Committee."
The estimated income and expenditures for the present year, as
reported by the Grand Treasurer, is as follows:
"Income : Half of half of free income of Grand Lodge for year
ending November 30, 1911, £1,469, lls. lOd. ; interest on investments,

164

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

£2,870; total, £4,339, 1ls. lOd.. Expenditure: 228 annuitants presently
on roll for the whole year, £2,510; postages, printing and stationery,
£55; balance, £1,774, lls. lOd.
If it be true that the total annual income of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland is only slightly in excess of £4,000 (about $20,000), the juris-.
diction does not take high rank financially.
The system of dispensing assistance in the form of what are termed
"annuities" has much to commend it. It is exceedingly economical, so
far as administration is concerned, and, besides this, annuitants are permitted a degree of personal freedom which is impossible in connection
with the Masonic Home systetr1, and the annuitants also are permitted'
to exercise a latitude of choice in their manner and method of living,
impossible in connection with the institutional method.
The Grand Secretary submits a list of 248 annuitants as of October·
1911, receiving in the aggregate £2,7-45, equivalent to about $15,000.
'
It is interesting to observe that, while the Grand Lodge of Scotland
has its Lodges distributed all over the world, drawing tribute from all
of them, yet of the 248 annuitants receiving the beneficence of the Grand
Lodge all but ten of them reside in Scotland.
There appears to be on the membership roll of the Grand Lodge
of Scotland 763 Lodges, of which 425 are in Scotland proper and 338
scattered throughout the world.
For instance, India has 55 I.,odges; Queensland 74, New Zealand
12, Western Australia 38, The Transvaal 38, and anywhere from one to
eight Lodges in the following remote places: Rhodesia, Mauritius,
Jamaica, Bermuda, Newfoundland, Gibraltar, Peru, Chili, Nicaragua,
China, Japan, Egypt, Fiji Islands, Syria, Panama, Malta, British East
Africa, West Coast of Africa, Straits Settlements, Straits of Magellan,
Philippine Jslands, Korea, Turkey, Siam, .etc.
Anybody's charter fee or annual per capita to the Graqd Lodge
looks good to Scotland, and, as noted above, Scottish thrift is manifested when it comes to disbursements, and evidently the doctrine of
kteping enrything possibte at home is prudently carried out, for, as
stated, of the 2-48 annuitants, beneficiaries of the Grand Lodge of Si:otland, 238 of them rei;ide in th.e land wher.e the Grand Lodie js domi~iled, while one each 11re r~ted as livipg in India, Queensland, ~ ew
Zealand, China, British Central America, and two in Australia and three
in Cape Colony.
The ~,", ·H: · the Marquess of Tu)libardin~. M. V. 0., D. S. O.,
M. P., M.'.
Grand Mast.er Mason.
David Reid, Grand Secretary.

w:.

165

SOUTH AUS'l'R.At.lA, 1912.

An excelient pieture of M.'. W.'. Brother His Excellency the Rt.
Hon. Sir S. j. Way, Bat., P. C., D. C. L.1 LL. 0., Lleutenartt-Governbr,
and Chief Justice of South Australia, Grand Master, forms the frontispieee of the Proceedings.
The Proceedings are itlso embelllshed with a picture of R. ·. W. ·.
Brother F. E. Cornish, Deputy Grand Master.
The half yearly Communication of the Grand Lodge was held in
. Freemasons' Hall, Adelaide, on Wednesday, October 18, 1911. The
Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the M.". W.'. Grand
Master.
The following resolution, looking to securing of more fitting accommodations for the Grand Lodge, was unanimously adopted:
"V.'. W.'. Wpl. Brother T. C. Holland, G. R., Vice-President of the
Board of General Purposes, moved : That the Gtal1d Lodge Is of opinion that the accommodation provided by the Freemasons' Hall, Flinders
street, Adelaide, is inadequate for the present requirements of the
Craft, and that larger and more convenient premises should be provided, and that a committee be appointed to formulate a scheme for thii
purpose and to submit same to Grand Lodge."
As was also the following resolution, modifying or limiting the
character of the investment:
"That lt be an instruction to the committee to inquire generally into
all the funds and other property, trust ot otherwi~e of Grand Lodge
and report how these are to be dealt with under the proposed scheme."
Difficulties seemed to arise to prevent putting into execution the
above resolutions, and at a Special Communication of the Grand Lodge,
held Thursday, November 30, 1911, certain amendments, in accordance
with the committee's teport, lookirtg to the modification of the law,
were adopted, whereby the project !night be carried forward.
The Twenty-eighth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
of South Australia was held at Freemasons' Hall, Flinders street, Adelaide, on Wednesday, April 17, 1912~M.'. w .. Grand Master the Rt.
Hon. Sir S. J. Way, Batt., P. C., D. C. L., LL.D. 1 etc., presiding.
The election of Grand Master took place at this Communication
and inasmuch as the Right Honorable Samuel James Way is crowding
our own M.'. w:. Thomas J. Shryock, Grand Master of Maryland, for
the honor of first place in years of service In the position of Grand
Master, it· will not be out of place to quote the Deputy Grand Master,
R.'. W.'. Brother F. E. Cornish, when he presented for re-election to
the Grand East for the twenty-second time the M.' . w:. Sir Samuel
James Way, as follows:
"It is my pleasure and privilege to move: That the M.'. w:.
Brother Right Honorable Sir Samuel James Way be the Grand Master
for the ensuing year. I am sure we are all proud that our distinguished

167

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

brother has presided over our deliberations and been at the head of
our Craft for so many years. This is the twenty-second occasion on
which he has been proposed for this position, and we are all exceedingly proud to have such an illustrious brother in this honorable and
important position. In looking through the records of the yariomt
Grand Lodges throughout the world it is interesting to notice that most
favorable comments are frequently made concerning the Grand Lodge
of South Australia. W·e are grateful to the M.'. w:. Grand Master
for the influence he has exerted on the Craft in this State, and feel
tha.t we are largely indebted to him for the high position we occupy toaay. I am sure we are unanimous in the hope that the Great Architect of the Universe will endow him with the same health and vigor
to preside over us during the ensuing year as · he has during the past
many years."

Brother J. Waties. Waring, on behalf of the local"' Conimittee on
Invitation, extend!!d an invitation . to the Grand Lodge· officers and
delegates to attend an "oyster ro;1st" to be given at the Schuetzenplatz
•lll Wednesday afternoon, December 13th, and on motion of Brother
W. J. Moseley the invitation was· promptly accepted. . .

166

Fron1 the report of the Board of General. Purposes we obtain the
information that the . total woi;:th of Grand Lodge funds at this timeis. something over £26,000, equivalent to about $130,000, and, considering the fact that the total .membership is scarcely more than 4,000, we
must ·conclude that relatively South Australia is financially exceedingly
strong.
This jurisdiction is conducting its functions of assistance and relief
in a highly creditable manner. Some thirty or more indigent Masons,
and widows of Masons, received periodical relief during the preceding
year from the charity funds to the amount of about £600.
· The business methods of this Grand Jurisdiction might profitably be
col1sidered by some of our American Grand Lodges.
There is a Report on Foreign Correspondence by a committee of
fourteen members, all · of whom seem to take part in the work of
review.
California, 1911, is briefly considered by the chairman of the com-·
mittee, w:. Brother James R. Robinson, with complimentary references
to our charitable disbursements, particularly in connection with our
Masonic Homes, and to the eloquent oration delivered by Brother
Albert G. Burnett, Grand Orator.
M.'. w:. Brother His Excellency the Rt. Hon. Sir S. J. Way,
Bart., P. C., D. C. L., LL. D., Lieutenant-Governor, and Chief Justice
of South Australia, Grand Master.
R.'. ·
Brother Charles R. J. Glover, P. D. G. M., Grand Secretary.

w:.

SOUTH CAROLINA, 1911.
The portrait of George S. Mower, the newly elected Gra~d Master,
form~ th~ frontispiece of the Proceedings.
The One Hundred and Thirty-fifth Annual Communication of the
M.' . w:. Grand Lodge of Ancient Free Masons of South Carolina
convened in the ' Masonic Temple, in the city of Charleston, S. C., at 11
o'clock, on Tuesday, the 12th day of December, A. L. 5911-Grand
Master James R. Johnson presiding.

Of the Masonic creed, the Grand Master says:
"The Maso~ic Cree.d is brief . and all-embracing-'The Fatherhood
nf God-the Brotherhood .of man.'
·
'Fraternity! ·
·
·
With alf the word conveys of want relie".ed,
.
,
C)f friendship, help and sympathy, both given and received.
.
('omrades to all the world, we stand, as men full oft have stood,
But pledge, · instead o·f King or State, the Bond of Brotherhood.'
"It has bee·n truly said that the Masonic Institution is 'a great
fact.' It has remained unchanged ~nd unchangea.ble.- 'Faithful among
the faithless, firm among the faltermg, steadfast m its purpos~, eternal
In its uriostentatious devotion.' No grander mott6 could be inscribed
upon the altar of Masonry .than the simpl1e ~ords, 'I .stitl live-'. .
,
"Such a glorious inheritance should prick the sides of our mtent,
inspire us with greater sincerity in our work, and move us on to nobler
deeds. We are .Masons not for what we get, but for what we may do
for others.
.
"Our Lodge is an organization of Architects. Labor. is the ~ey­
stone of the Arch. It behooves us then to be up and domg, for Art
is long, and Time is fleeting I' "
As is well known, South Carolina has always demanded 'what
might be · termed practically physical perfection of applicants for the
degrees of Masonry, and while there has been differences of dpini?n
among South Caroli1ia Masons as to the w'isdom of the policy of physical perfection, it has bee11 impossible to change the law, and the Grand
Master, in his :address, refers to the question in the following manner:
"One year ago the Grand 'Lodge wrestled . with this probtei:n and
in its wisdom saw fit to allow the law to remam unchanged, while the
majority of our brethren were in favor of. changing A~ticle III of the
Constitutlo.n; and ~ection 101 of. t~~ <:;ode? m t~e .fot.lo":'1.11;g. language:
"That every candidate for 1mt1at10n m this ,iurisd1ct10!1 must be a
man, freeborn, of mature and discreet a~e, ~avmg no maim o~ defect
in his body or mind that may render h1~ mcapab!e of learnmg l!-nd
practicin·g the Art, and who can com~ly hterall:i' .Vl'.1th <1;ll the re9u1remcnts as to initiation ceremonies without arttf1c1al aid or friendly
assistance. .
. .
· ·
f h R
"In the past four or . frve years more than a maionty o t e epresentatives of the Grand Lodge have repeatedly by ballot declare~
themselves in favor of this change; however, it never has been poss1- ·
ble so far to obtain the necessary three-fourths. The Gra.nd Lodge for
the first time refers this matter directly to the subordinate ~dges,
requesting them. ·to instruct. t}ieir delegates how to vote o~ this most
important question. The · subiect has been. re~ewed, and will come t?P
for consideration at this Annual Commumcat1on; therefore, I take 1t,

161:1

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

thnt the delegates have been instructed by their Lodges how to vote.
Any argument on this question would be more or less wasted energy.
"All of the representatives who have attended previous Annual
Communications are quite familiar with the arguments for and against
this change, and it would be superfluous at this time for me to enlargoe
thereon ; except to reiterate my opinion, that Freemasonry stands for
the general enlightenment of mankind. I hope that this Grand Lodge
will in its wisdom, opert the door to such material as is found morally
fit\ and who have been knocking at our portals for many years, debarred
on y by some trivial physical disqualification ; such for instance, as the
loss of the joint of one little finger of the left hand, or one toe, or the
loss of a small portion of the car. We have in this respect as a precedent nine-tenths of all of the Grand Lodges of the world, includinf
the Grand Lodge of England, from whom we r~eived our birth. In
many instances their laws on this subject are much more libetal than
the one now proposed, which in my ju~ment, if adopted, would not
only have the effect of putting us in line on this very important subject
with all others, but allowing Us to spread the great light of Masonry
to all slightl.v impc,.fect phylically, but pure 11Jorally, and who are dcsw•
obit material.
"My brethren, the question is with you, and under the guidance of
the Supreme Atchitect of the Universe, I trust and feel sure that
yuur decision will be for the best interests of the Craft in this Grand
Jurisdiction."

to be appointed by him, to attend these annual meetings, their expense
being paid by the Grand Lodge.
"We appreciate the honor conferred upon our Grand Master in
electing him a second-vice-president of this Association for two years,
11nd we recommend that his expense in attending these meetings, during
the term of his offic !, be paid by the Grand Lodge."

168

Under the heading "visitations" he states that he visited extensively
throughout the State and personally conducted the ceremonies incident
to the laying of two corner-stones and directed other Masonic functions
during the year, being the recipient upon all occasions of great courtesy,
.
kindness and hospitality.
He refers to his visit to Alexandria, Va., upon the occasion of the
metting of the Washington Memorial Association. The project meets
with his hearty approval, and he expresses the hope that the Grand
Lodge will give the project its unqualified official endorsement,
· The Committee on Grand Mnster's address "went the limit" in its
endotseh1e11t of the Washington Memorial Association, and their report,
as follows, was adopted by the Grand Lodge :
"We concur in and recommend the approval of the Grand Master's
action in ordering our Grand Treasurer to send one hundred dollars to
the treasurer of the Washington Memorial Association for the entertainment of representatives.
"We would further recommend that this appropriation be made
annually.
"We are of the opinion that this Association will not only cause the
erection of a proper and suitable memorial to that great man and
Brother Mason, Washington, but through the intercourse of the various
Grand Masters with each other will result in closer relationship between
the Grand Jurisdictions, and more uniformity in Masonic laws relating
to intets1ate matters.
"We further concur in the recommendation of the Grand Master,
that this Grand Lodge act formally upon the suggestion of the Memorhi
Association, viz: Authorize the Grand Master and accredited associatt•, ,

That another effort is to be made to modify the stringency of the
South Carolina law concerning physjcal qualifications may be jutlged
from the following amen<lment to the Constitution and Code, which
was presented and went over for consideration to the next Annual
Communication :
"To strike out Article III of the Constitution and Section IOI of
the Code and insert in each case the following:
"Every can<lidate for initiation in this jurisdiction must be without
maim or defect in his body or mind that may render him incapable of
learning and practicing the art, and who can comply literally with all the
requirements as to initiation ceremonies without artificial aid or friendly assistance."
The total membership of the jurisdiction at this Communication
nppcars to he 13,772, a net gain during the year of 637.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by J. L. Michie, Past
<irand Master.
The production sparkles with wit and humor; his comment and
observation are striking and original, and his quotations are chosen
with discriminating judgment.
Californin, 1910, is courteously reviewed, and his reference to
<~ran<l Master W. Frank Pierce, who, except for the touch of the Death

Angel, would have presided at this Communication, is evidently the
expression of a personal friend. He says:
"A feeling of profound sorrow comes over us as we lift this volume.
Frnnk Pierce, the genial, whole-souled Grand Master, passed to his
reward on the 3rcl of October, just a short week before his Grand
1.odge met. The writer met Brother Pierce at the convention of the
nenera l Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons at Savannah, and at the
Baltimore Conference, and his heart eoes out in loving sympathy to his
brethren of California."
"From what we know personally of Frank Pierce, and from what
we have read of him, he must have been to his brethren of California
what 'Jake Barron' was to us in South Carolina.
"Peace, tlien, to Pierce's memory; let it grow
Greener with years, and blossom through the flight
Of ages; let the mimic canvas show
His calm, benevolent features; let the light
Stream on his deeds of love, that shunned the sight
Of all but Heaven; and in the Book of Fame
The glorious record of his virtues write,
And hold it up to men and bid them claim
A palm like his, and catch from him the hallowed flame.'"
29

171

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

He makes a substantial quotation from Brother Adams' .oration on
"Masonry in Business and Politics,'' and concerning Brother Adams'
effort says:
"The a1~nual oration was delivered by Charles A. Adam, who to~ •
as his subject, 'Masonry in Business a!1d Politics.'. i::en thousand copies
of this address were ordered to be printed and d1stn~uted to the Cr~ft.
Would that, not only every Mason, but every .voter in South Carolina
could have a copy."
From his "conclusion" the following paragraphs on subjects of
general interest are quoted:
"The liquor question is causing trouble in some jurisdictions., d~e
difference of opinion and la~s being as far ap~rt as the p0les. Illino1s
leaves it with every Subordinate Lodge to decide .as to ~ho are, apd
who are not eligible for initiation or memberslup, while Ark~nsas
holds that a director in a corporati~:m which opera~es a hotel with a
saloon. therein., cannot be admitted 1!1to the fr~termty n?r ~llowed to
retain membership. In Idaho, 'an engineer runmi;ig an engine in a brewery, is not eligible.' And this shows ~ow very intemperate some folks
,
,
are on the so-called temperance question.
"I would like to ask each of my brethren reviewers to publish at
the end of his report ncx~ year, a list of the landmarks recogn:zed by
his jurisdictioh and we will thf'n see a little through each <?ther s spectacles. To set the ball rolling, we will publish on the following page tb.e
landmarks of Albert G. Mackey, who was for many years Grand Secre-,
tary of this jurisdiction." ·
Brother Michie, as stated in the last paragraph above; asks. his
"brother reviewers" to publish at the end of their reports for next
year a list of the landmarks recognized by their respective jurisdictions.
Some jurisdiction.s, it is true, have legislatively intlicated what they consider as "landmarks." 1his, however, is not, we ~elieve: true in many
jurisdictions, and, while opinions will not m~tenally d.if'fer as to the
identity of a certain number of what are considered ancient landmar.ll:s,
there is a wide and shadowy zone of differing opinion and doubt that
very few Grand Lodges have attempted by legislative fiat to dispel.

In his opening address the Grand Master says:
"It affords me much pleasure, and I believe it will be a source of
1utisfaction to you, to report that with little exception peace and harmony prevails throughout the jurisdiction in the Lodges and among the
hrethren. There has been growth in numbers of members, but what is
more to the point, I am warranted in saying there has been a marked
1rowth in interest and settled determination to make of the order what
11 should be in the communities and in the State.''

170

Geo. S. Mower, Newberry, elected Grand Master.
O. Frank Hart, Columbia, re-elected Grand Secretary.
SOUTH DA KOT A, 1912.
A fine steel engraving of Charles L. Brockway, Grand Master,
1911-12, forms the frontispiece of the Proceedings, and pictures facing
each other, showing the marked contrast, are g.iven in the front pages,
of Deadwood, 1876, and Deadwood, 1912, the latter showing an
apparently highly prosperous city of considerable magnitude. These
pictures are inserted, no doubt, because the Thirty-eighth Annual. Co_mmunication of the Grand Lodge was held at Deadwood, S. D., beginning
Tuesday, June 11, 1912-the M.'. w:. Charles L. Brockway, Grand
Master, presiding.

The Grand Master mentions the death in the year of Brother
Charles W. McDonald, Past Grand Treasurer, who died at his home at
Wessington Springs on March 11, 1912.
.
The Grand Master sets forth in an orderly and business-like manner his offi~ial acts during the year, consisting in part 'Of the constitution
of the several Lodges which received charters at the preceding Annual
Communication; the granting of dispensations to form seven new
l,odges; the laying of three corner-stones of important public buildings;
visitations to a large number of the subordinate Lodges, etc.
Under the heading "decisions" he says:
"I have been called upon for very few decisions, and have been
nble to dispose of most of the questions presented by reference to the
lly-laws or former decisions. A <limit was issued to a brother and it
nfterward appeared that he did not intend to·apply for it. He returned
the dimit requesting that it be canceled and his membership restored.
I directed that his request be complied with. All questions as to physical qualifications have been answered by reference to former decisions,
leaving the responsibility with the Lodge.''
He reports that he received invitations to visit the Grand Lodge of
to attend its One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Anniversary; to the Grand Lodge of Louisiana to attend its One Hundredth
anniversary, and to attend the Washington Masonic National Memorial Association, but he was unable to accept any of these invitations.
A brief but thoughtful oration, containing some splendid specimens
of rhetoric, was delivered by Brother M. F. Montgomery, Grand Orator. The Grand Lodge was vastly entertained and edified and the oraiion was ordered printed in the Proceedings.
The election of Grand Officers resulted in the choice of William
J. McMakin, Terraville, Grand Master, and George A. Pettigrew, Sioux
Falls, re-elected Grand Secretary.
St. John's Lodge No. 1 of Yankton extended an invitation to the
Grand Lodge to hold the next Annual Communication at Yankton and
assist St. John's Lodge in celebrating the fiftieth anniversary of its existence, and the invitation was unanimously accepted.
The number of members in good standing at this Communication
were 9,701, a net gain during the year of 801.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.". w:. Samuel
A. Brown.
Penn~ylvania

173

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

• REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The correspondence Report in this Grand Jurisdiction is e~nbellished
with the picture of each Grand Secretary, placed at the beginning of
the review of that particular State. The pictures represent a distinguished looking body of men, such as might be takeri for a group of
college presidents or United States Senators, and among them ls our
own strikingly handsome Brother John Whicher.
The report before us is a thoughtful and able production.
California, 1911, is courteously reviewed, and especial reference
made to the munificent generosity of Grand Treasurer Brother Edward
Coleman, who presented to the Grand Lodge the fully equipped hospital
which he did fO£ use at the Masonic Home at Decoto.

tion of the Traveling Silver Trowel, sent out by Justice Lodge, No. 753,
of Rochester, N. Y., to be transmitted from Lodge to Lodge around
the world, spreading its message of brotherly lov.e.
.
"During the day, in company with W.'. Br.other ]. N. Newcomb,
W .'. Master of McAlester Lodge, No. 96, of McAlester, Okla., and ·his
staff; W .'. Master of DeSoto Lodge, No. 299, C. L. Marsilliot and others, the Trowel was taken to the Mississippi River and dipped in its
waters.
"The Lodge convened at 7 :00 o'clock p. m. at the Scottish Rite
Cathedral when the Trowel, borne by the brethren from McAlester
Lodge, was presented and received with elaborate ceremonies, during
the course of which I had the pleasure, with Brother Jno. L. Brooks, M.'.
W .'. Grand Master of the State of Mississippi, of being officially presented to one of the largest assemblages of Masons which ever gathered
in the city of Memphis.''

1T2

·w m. ]. McMakin, Terraville, Grand Master.
Geo. A. Pettigrew, Sioux Falls, Grand Secretary.
TENNESSEE, 1912.
In compliance with the provision of the Constitution, the N inetyeighth Annual Communication of the M. '. W.'. Grand Lodge of the'
State of Tennessee was begun and held in Freemasons' Hall, Nashville,
Tenn., beginning on Wednesday, January 31, 1912, at 10 a. m.-John
R. Rison, Grand Master, presiding.
The report of the Credentials Committee disclosed the fact that
out of the 452 Lodges on the roll, 438 of them were repre:;ented, there
being only 14 Lodges in the jurisdiction not represented.
Frnm the report of the Grand Master, it appears that his year was
an active one, he having performed a vast number of official acts,
consisting in the granting of dispensations, the performance of public
ceremonies in connection with laying corner-stones, dedications of halls,
etc., and under the heading of "visitations" says:
"When I assumed the duties of this exalted station I was not
unmindful C>f the fact that one of the most pleasant and ag;eeable tasks
was that of paying official visits to the various Subordinate Lodges
thrc;iughout the iu:isdiction, l!-nd I intended ~o avail myself of the opportunity; but a public servant 1s not always his own master hence I have
been unable to visit as many of the Lodges as I desired b~t those visited
have not disappointed me, and I am very thankful for the royal and
cordial treatment extended the office of Grand Master, and also to me
personally. Rest assured, brethren, I will always cherish these visits
'
and only wish they could have covered a broader scope."
The following is his description of the reception in his jurisdiction .
of the "Traveling Trowel" :
"By invitation of DeSoto Lodge, No. 299, Memphis, Tennessee I
we~t. to Mem~his on May 22, 1911, and. on the evening of that day ~as
of!1c1ally received by the Lodge., By dispensation, the Lodge was permitted to assemble at the Scottish Rite Cathedral instead of its usual
place of meeting, in the Masonic Temple, for the purpose of this official
reception, the conferring of the Master Mason's Degree and the recep-

A picture is presented in the copy of the Proceedings of the
"Traveling Silver Trowel" being baptized in the Mississippi river at
Memphis by John F. Mason, Grand Master of Tennessee, on January
22, 1911, so that when the "Traveling Trowel" gets back to its Home
Lodge in Rochester, N . Y., it will have had an extremely varied
experience.
A large number of official rulings are presented by the Grand
Master upon questiohs purely local in character.
Speaking of the Widows and Orphans' Home, the Grand Master
says :
"This institution reflects not only the spirit, aims and purposes of
Masonry, but its splendid success and increasing usefulness have been
the means of exalting our profession and ·of commending our principles
to the world. It has filled not only the hearts of those in official position, in our ranks, and those who projected and labored for It, but it
is the pride and glory of every individual Mason. Therefore, it should
r eceive a generous and unstinted support ; it should never be hampered
·for the want of sufficient funds, but be cared for liberally."
And concerning the same institution, the Board of Control, at the
conclusion of its report, states :
"On December 10th, next, the Home will have rounded out twenty
years of existence. During that time 476 widows and orphans have
been sheltered, clothed, and educated within its waI1s. Many of them
a re today occupying positions of responsibillty and trust, and exceedingly rare is an instance of where one has not reflected credit upon the
institution. They, themselves, are proud of such a record; this Board
is proud of it, and we know that this Grand Lodge is proud of it.
Where is there a work that not only Masonry, but mankind in general
is doing today that surpasses it ?-the moulding of character, relieving
of want ;ind distress, and kindling the fire of hope within the bosom
of those helpless ones, each of whom, were so near and so dear to a
brother who has gone before us."
Looking forward to the celebration of the one hundredth anniversary of the organization of the Grand Lodge, the following resolution was adopted :

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
174

176

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE. '

"Resolved, That a committee of three Master Masons, one from
each Grand Division of the State be appointed at this session of the
Grand Lodge, whose duty shall be to devise a program suggesting all
the necessary and proper arrangement for holding in the year A. D.,
1913, the Centennial Celebration of the life and achievements of this
venerable and robust Grand Lodge, which will be one hundred years
old on the 27th of December, 1913. Said Committee to report its action
to the next Communication of the Grand Lodge."
The method of compensating the Grand Treasurer by commissions
upon the money handled by him seems to be in vogue in Tennessee, and
in this matter he received for his services during the preceding year

$965.04.
That seems rather extravagant compensation in a jurisdiction
whose total income appears td be less than $40,000.
California, with an income more than double this, pays its Grand
Treasurer $200, which sum, we believe, represents about the average
amount received by Grand Treasurers throughout the United States.
West Virginia and Tennessee appear to be upon the comm1ss1on
basis, very much to the financial disadvantage, we would say, of the
Grand Lodge.
This jurisdiction is one of the several that passes the so-called
"Signet Ring" from one Grand Master to another, and the ceremony
of the presentation of the "Signet Ring" took place just before the
closing of the Grand Lodge, with suitable words from the retiring
Grand Master, Brother John R. Rison, addressed to the recently
installed Grand Master, Brother J. Leon Bachman. The Grand Master
accepted the charge, responding in gracious and appropriate language.
From an inspection of the Grand Secretary's report, it appears
that the Master Masons in good standing January I, 1912, number
25,589, a net increase for the year of 787.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Past Grand Maste'r
Henry A . Chambers.
In his "introduction" he says in part :
"Probably the most important thing of general Masonic interest in
the United States during the time covered by .the Proceedings we have
examined, is the proposition to erect at Alexandria, Va., a Memorial
to George Washington as a Mason. Most of the Grand Lodges that have
taken action in this matter, especially in the Eastern and Middle States,
seem strongly in favor of the Memorial. The Grand Masters of a number of the Grand Lodges have met at Alexandria and helped to formulate a plan and have urged its acceptance by other Grand Lodges. One
Southwestern Grand Lodge, however, took the view that while Washington deserved and should receive high honor as a soldier, statesman
and patriot yet he was not so active and prominent a Freemason as to
be entitled to a special Masonic Memorial."
California, 1911, is reviewed, and quotations made from the Grand
Master's address with reference to the eloquent oration delivered by

Brother Samuel M. Shortridge at t?e laying of the corner-stone of the
new Masonic Temple in San Francisco.
J. Lynn Bachman, Sweetwater, elected Grand Master.
John B. Garrett, Nashville, re-elected Grand Secretary.

TEXAS, 1911.
· ·
In com liance with the provisions of the Constitut1on
o f the
M . W .

~ d Lodge of Texas, Ancient Free and Accepted Masons,

th~· Se~~nty~~~xth Grand Annual Communicatio? was ~~~~d:; ~~:
Masonic Temple, in the city of Walo, {o~~~n~~glOo:.clock a. 'm.5th day of December, A. D. 1911,•• · ·
'
Walter Acker, Grand Master, prestdmg.

In the opening of his address, the Grand Master says:
h
1 b r e that we should care
"Paraphrasing t~e worlsMf anot ~~d le~siefor the non-essentials;
more for the essentta s 0
a~onr)'.
ri s and words is of less
that the martinet of Masdnry wft~h111\sf~ep~f gM~sonry · that humanity
importance than the st'! ent <?
e b~ebs and more of joy and cheer;
needs le~s of .abstract ph1lr~oph1ci:l ~ore of love; that the doctrine of
less of tmagm:iry symbdo irm an de brighter will outlive all abstract
hearts made lu~hter an .1v~s f!la
randizement; that we
1 1f
speculation, a!I officia\ fi1st~hct1<?f1• a~d d~t:i~~ of Him who was 'set
should reco[Z!llze. mohre u1 t
Mey people Israel;' that Masons shout~
•
as a plumb lme m t e mt s 0
he 'Ancient Landmarks
worry ~nd wr~\lessth~b~h:e:~!!e~tl~j1}~~tdmtarks-faith in God, hope
i~~;:i1~~~=1i~; andv~he d_aily applica_;ion of the Golden Rule.

1

f1

"God is our Father,
Man is a Brother,
The Earth is our Mother.
Life is a mission and not a career.
Knightship is service,
His sceptre is gladness.
The least is ·the greatest.
Saving is dyingGiving is living.
. .
,,
Life is eternal and love ts its essence.
·
h t f !fill is to increase the happiness
"The mission that Masonry as
and to the fulfillment .of this
ai:id to !Ili~igate th,eS sorrof sL?fhfa~a~d pledged, and to this end they
high m1ss1on the ons 0
ig
· h
misery and human sufshould labor earnestly as long a~~~e~: ban~~~~ is heard in the land.
ferimr in the world, as long a~tt
b/ the finger of time upon all that
"Decay and death are ~rt en human effort have wrought great
we hold dear. Hullarh gemu~ltf~ally be annihilated. Travelers tell
ese h~ mausoleums of antiquity are slowly but
achievements, but. a
. us that the pbyl_ram!d~ ad~sft that the facial features of the Sphynx are
0
111
•
surely cru!Il m~
s of the Eternal City can no longer
scarcely d1scern1ble; tha~ the turet f Babylon which Nebuchadnezer
be found, that the hangmg gha:r hensbive the do:nes of his magnificent
reared in graceful terraces 1g a

k" d

li6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

capitol, that they might remind his Medean wife of her native mountains, are known today only through the pages of tradition and history.
The world's masterpieces in poetry, painting and sculpture will sooner
or l~ter go~ a~ Bryant says, to mi!lgle w.i th the 'insen~ible day,' but the
cardinal prmc1ples of our Fratern1ty-fa1th, hope charity, relief, truththese will live beyond the grave through the boundless realms of eternity"
"Since last we met in Grand Communication to many inembers in
the subordinate Lodge has come the summons from the Supreme. Grand
Master to the 'Holy of Holies' above, and to their memory we ·would
leave a tribute of love and esteem as a part of the permanent record of
this Grand Body; that those who come after us may know the virtues
of the departed are held in loving remembrance, while their faults are
forgotten. W e bow in humble submission to the will of Him who is
too wise and too good to err. Who doeth all things well Let us
cherish the memory of those who have 'passed through the. outward
vales of these earthly courts,' emulate their virtues and prepare to
clasp hands with them again on that blissful shore 'where the wicked
cease from troubling and the weary shall find rest.'
"Latour D'Auvgerne was a grenadier of Napoleon's Old Guard.
Bravest of the brave, on every battlefield, his distinguished services
were recognized and he was tendered a sword with this inscription 'To
the First Grenadier of France.' But he refused it, saying, 'Amon'g . us
soldiers there is neither first nor last.' Time after time refusing promotion and ever winning new laurels, he fell on the field of conflict
fi.gh.tin~ valiantly f_or his country, and an Imperial decree.gave him ~·
d1stmctton never enjoyed by the proudest Marshal of the Empire. His
name continued on the roll of his company and when it was called the
· ·
oldest sergeant answered, 'Dead on the field of honor.'
"The bugles have sounded 'assembly,' and from every section of our ·
great State the 'Sons of Light' have gathered in this splendid city and
as the roll is called again and again is heard the glad response, 'present or accounted for.' But now some name is spoken,, a short silence
follows for a moment which is broken only by the throbbing.of anxious
·hearts, and then, clear as a bell upon the morning air, is heard from
out our ranks the exulting cry, 'Dead on the field of Masonic work and
study.'"

"Upon receiving this information, I reque~ted R.'.
Brother
Thomas M. Matthews, Chairman of the Committee on For~1gn Corre1pondence, to make an investigation of this matter and submit to me all
evidence he could procure.
·
"With that thoroughness so characteristic of Brother Matthe~s,
this duty was undertaken and discharged, an abundance of proof bemg
presented, showing the irregularity of the Grand Lodge of France.
"In writing upop this subject, the Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of the District of Columbil!- says : 'The G.ra~d ~o~ge of France
la a sovereign Grand Lodge, holdmg concurrent JUnsd1ch?n and working in amity with th~ Grand Ori~nt of F.rance, and that, !1ke th~ G.ra,n~
Orient it does not display the Bible on its altar, or reqmre of its m1t1ates a' belief in Deity. The 'annuaire' of the National Bureau for
Masonic Intercourse shows that .the seat of t?e G~and Lodge of France
IR Rue Roche Chouart, 42, Pans. Gen. Pe1gne 1s Grand Master and
Gustav Lallement the Grand Secretary: !t has one ~un<;tred a:id twentynine Lodges and 7,300 members, and 1s m commurucat!on with twenty11ix Grand Lodges, al.I .being in .Europe wi.th the exception of the Grand
Lodges of Egypt, Chili, Argentme Repu?hc and. Gua.temala,. and the socalled Grand Lodges Cosmos ~nd. !gnat.ms Ramirez !n Mex1c?. It does
not appear to he in communication with any Enghsh-speakmg Grand
l,odge.'"

l

From the Grand Master's report it appears that twelve new Lodges
were organized under dispensation during the year, and that in th~
matter of laying corner-stones the Grand Lodge exercised its functions
freely, for twenty-eight of these ceremonies were held during the year.
The Grand Master's report throughout demonstrates that his year.
was one of extreme activity, not only in the performance of Masonic
functions, hut also in the matter of construing and passing upon questions of Masonic law. Thirty or more decisions • construing the law
of Texas were rendered by him durir.g the year. '.
Concerning the Grand Lodge of France, the Grand Master says :
" It appea_rs that some five or . six vears ago the Grand Lodge of
Texas recogruzed the Grand Lodge of France. Some time in August it
was .brought to my. attention that the Grand Lodge of France does not
requm.• that the Bible be placed upon its altars, but leaves it optional
with the Lodge whether or not it shall be present.

177

w.:-

That the Masonic Home at Texas is doing well its work may be
Judged from the statements concerning the Home made by the Grand
Master in his address, for he says:
"There is no need that I should speak ~o. you of the Home ma!ntnined by this Grand Body. It stands as a hvmg mon.ument ?f the smrerity of our profession as Masons. There the little chtldr.ei;i left
orphans and friendless find a home where not only the necessities of
life are provided, but where the ~est a_dvantages are affor,ded along
t'ducational lines-advantage11 which, . 1f properly appreciated and
rmployed, will make of the boys and girls honest and useful men and
women. "
· · h
"It was my privilege on one occasion du:ing. the year to vis.it t e
ITome in person, and to talk to the boys ai;id girls 1.n ~he m?re advanced
ll'rades along the lines of proper prepl!-ratton for l!fe s duties, and as I
looked into their earnest faces I 'Was impressed with the fact that they
appreciated most highly the advantages afforded them, and would
Improve every opportunity to equip themselves for lives of usefulness
nnd honor."
The Grand Master's address is filled with eloquent paragraphs, some
of which we have already quoted, some are scattered through the body
of tlM! report, and some are found in the "conclusion," from which we
1elect as follows :
"God in His infinite love and goodness has surroun~ed us on every
hand with evidences of His deep concern for our happmess and prosperity and would that we manifest the same tender regard for the
welfa;e of our brother. For our pleasure and del~ght He has clot~ed
the lilies of the field in gorgeous Jieauty. He hl!s ~1ve~ us the babblmg
brook, the silver-throated song-bird, and at m1dmght ~ poly hour the
music of the spheres to attune our natures to. that d!vme .symphony
which finds its noblest expression in an tmself1sh cons1derat1on of the

•
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE ..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

interests of others. 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least
of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto Me.' 'All things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.' How
changed would the whole world be if these two thou~hts were kept constantly in mind and practiced in our daily walks of hfe I
"The heart is longing as never before, the world is calling as never
before, the age is demanding as never before men with big, unselfish
natures, who exemplify at all times, and under all circums~ances, the
principle of the Golden Rule, of the Good Samaritan, whose hearts are
filled with love and sympathy for humanity and its frailties. Let us,
my brethren, stand ready to satisfy this longing, and respond nobly to
this call while time and opportunity offer.''
"Love for humanity, preached and practiced, would lead us all to
feel that we are in a peculiar way our brother's keeper. And what is
this love of humanity? It is that sentiment of affection that puts underneath our weaker brother the strong arms of support and protection,
cloaks his follies and foibles, whatever they may have been, with tht
mantle of charity, whispers into his listening ears the words of friendly
counsel. lifts him to his feet, and a cheery smile sends him on his way
rejoicing. That sentiment that . provides comfortable and happy homes
for the widow and orphan, the aged and unfortunate. That sentiment
that no matter how dark and troubled the present hour may be through
hope whispers the promise of brighter and more peaceful davs, and of
rich and ample compensation of every affliction and grief. That sentiment that lifts the feet from the valley of despair· and plants them on
the glorious heights of opportunity and service. That sentiment that
thrilled the breast of the meek and lowly Nazarene as two thousand
years ago he toiled up J udean hills or sailed Galilean seas, which found
its highest expression in the agony of Gethsemane and the sorrows of
the Via Dolorosa. That sentiment that in the end will exalt every
brother who is faithful 'to the glorious companionship of that undissolving Lodge where the designs upon the Trestle Board will be seen completed, where the adoration of the twelfth hour will be the everlasting
joy, where the noontide of bliss will eternally shine, where the scales
of doubt and darkness shall fall from our eyes and the wise purposes
of the Divine Architect be displayed in all their splendor.
"The love and sympathy the world needs today is not, perhaps, of
that heroic mold which characterized the long ago, but of that finer
fiber that smooths the wrinkled brow of care, wipes bitter tears from
sorrowing eyes, binds up the wound.s of broken hearts, writes the faults
of our brothers in the shifting sand and their virtues on tablets of love
and memory: cheers the despondent in his lonelv hour, sentinels the
approach of doubt and dangers, cements ties in relations almost sacred,
and when time for our brother is no more, performs the last sad rites,
and in after years 'commemorates with freshening tears the memory of
loved ones who have shifted their places from the narrow .confines of
this life to a seat upon that stage which has all time and space for its
boundaries and the stars for its footlights.'"
·

thanks was tendered to the Grand Orator for his magnificent effort,
and he was requested to furnish a copy of the address to be printed in
the Proceedings.

178

From the Grand Secretary's report we learn that the jurisdiction
has 53,190 Master Masons on the rolls and 833 Lodges.
Brother J. P. Lightfoot, Grand Orator, delivered the annual address
upon the subject "The Lost Word." The oration was listened to with
rapt attention by the Grand Lodge, and at its conclusion a vote of

li\J

The Report on Corerspondence is by Past Grand Master Thomas
M. Matthews, Sr. California, 1910, is fully and favorably reviewed.
His . reference to the oration of Brother Charles A. Adams is as follows:
"Brother Charles A. Adams delivered a sensible, plain nad practical
address upon the subject, 'Masonry in Business and Politics.' It is both
unique and refreshing, because it differs markedly from the addresses
usually heard upon like occasions, and in that it is wholly devoid of the
'highfalutin' platitudes and glittering, sky-scraping generalities which
nearly always characterizes such effusions. It points out clearly what
a power for good Masonry could and should exert in every day business and politics, and what a potent factor the true Mason might become
in elevating and purifying both, if only he would be true to his principles
and duty as they are taught him. We would that every true and rightthinking Mason had the opportunity to, could and would read and act
upon it. As an evidence of what those who heard the address tnougbt
of it, we make note that 10,000 extra copies were ordered to be printed
for distribution among the members of the Lodges."
Sam F. Cochran, Dallas, Gr.and Master.
John Watson, Waco, Grand Secretary.
UTAH, 1912.
The W.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Utah convened in its Forty-first Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Salt Lake City, Tuesday, the 16th day of January, A. D. 1912,
at 10 o'clock a. m.-M.'. w:. Gilbert Benjamin Pfoutz, Grand Master,
presiding.
In his annual address the Grand Master thus refers to two ch~r­
acters identified for many years with Masonry in Utah; and it may he
added that this Communication was the last one that the greatly beloved
Grand Secretary was permitted to attend, for within a few months
following the close of this Annual Communication he was called to his
reward:
"We have with us today two of those men, and they are just as
active in the cause as of yore; notably our beloved Grand Secretary,
Christopher Diehl, who, with the exception of the first few months,
when he was Assistant Grand Secretary, has been continuously the
Grand Secretary of this Grand Lodge. His character and work are
well known to all, and he will ever remain the bright and shining star
of Masonry in Utah. Then comes our M.'. w:. Brother, Louis Cohn,
the first Deputy Grand Master, and the third and now oldest living Past
Grand Master of this jurisdiction. We all know his good work, and
the inspiration he has ever been to the younger brethren. May they be
spared to us for many years to come. I would suggest that this Grand

•
1&0

REPORT ON CORRESPON DEN CE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Lodge, in some befitting manner, show these brethren how great is the
honor and love in which we hold them."
Concerning dispensation for new Lodges, the Grand Master says:
"February 14th, 1911, I received a petition signed by forty-one Master Masons, requesting a dispensation to establish a new Lodge in Salt
Lake City, to be known as Acacia Lodge, U. D. The petition was accompanied by the recommendation of the three Lodges of Salt Lake City.
Believing it to be for the best interests of the Craft in this city, I
ordered the issuance of a dispensation, February 16th.
"Ma rch 17th, 1911, I received a petition signed by fifty-two Master
Masons, requesting a dispensation for a new Lodge in Ogden; to be
known as Unity Lodge, U. D. The petition was accompanied by the
recommendation of Weber Lodge No. 6. Believing the same conditions to exist in Ogden as in Salt Lake, I granted the request and
ordered the issuance of a dispensation.
"At the institution of Acacia Lodge, which occurred February 25th,
every Grand Lodge Officer and over two hundred brethren were present, and I know all joined in wishing the new Lodge 'Godspeed' in its
future work.
"On April 24th, I instituted Unity Lodge at Ogden. On this occasion I was accompanied by most of the Grand Lodge Officers and about
fifty brethren from Salt Lake City. The new Lodge starts out under
the brightest auspices, and will, I believe, do much for Masonry in ,
Ogden.
·"This is the first time in the history of the Grand Lodge that two
dispensations have been issued in one year for the formation of new
Lodges, and shows that Masonry is progressing in Utah. I might state
that over two-thirds of the petitioners were non-affiliates."
Concerning the condition of Lodges and the general work of
Masonry in the jurisdiction, the v:. w:. Grand Secretary, Christopher'
Diehl, says :
"Brethren, we have again reason to rejoice and to offer thanks to
the Grand Master on High, who has showered His blessings upon our
Lod11;es and the Craft in our jurisdiction during the past twelve months.
During no year has the accession of Lodges and members been so large
as during 1911. We have gained two new Lodges and 205 members;
total membership, 1984. And that the Lodges are very careful in the
selection of new timber is shown by the fact that 77 petitions for the
three degrees were rejected. Besides that, the returns prove that a verv
lar11;e percentage of the candidates are young and intelligent men, who
will be devoted Masons, and practice the teachings of the Craft in the
daily walks of life. Again, Brethren, let us rejoice and be thankful."

From the Grand Secretary's statistical summary we learn that a
1111mher of Master Masons, December 3l, 1911, was I,984, the net gain.
cl11rln1r the year amounting to 205.
The annual election resulted in the choice of Sam Henry Goodwin,
l'rc>vo, Grand Master, and the re-election of R:. W:. Christopher Diehl
Orand Secretary.
.
The Report on Correspondence is by Brother Diehl, the Grand
Mocretary.
California, 1911, is fraternally considered.
Complimentary reference is made to the annual address delivered
hy Grand Orator Albert G. Burnett.

Reference is made by the Grand Secretary in his report to the
celebration by the Masons at Park City of an event of something more
than local interest in the completion by V:. Brother James Waterhouse Pearson of his fifty-fifth year as a Master Mason, and it is interesting to the brethren of California from the fact that Brother Pearson,
who for so many years has been identified with Masonry in Utah, was
made a Mason in Western Star Lodge No. 2 at Shasta, California, on
November 23, 1856. Western Star Lodge No. 2 of California is the
oldest Lodge in our jurisdiction,· although the honor of being Lodge
No. 1 was accorded to California Lodge at San Francisco.

JSI

Brother Diehl's "conclusion" is as follows:
"For the thirty-sixth time I have reached the end of the Report on
Cnrrespondence, and I am glad of it. To know .that a certain work is
flnbhed is always a relief, more especially so when the workman is
1 l1hty-one years old and has been handicapped by sickness for over a
11•11r. For those reasons I have no apologies to make for the imperfecllnn~ of the foregoing pages. I have earnestly tried to make it read1hlr and could do no more. I hope my Utah brethren will read it, and
II it is of any benefit to them, I shall consider it a liberal recompense
lt1r the many weary hours I spent on its production. I do not believe
hilt I ever will be able to write another Report on Correspondence, and
clo wish the officers and members of the Grand Lodge would consid' r Ihis my last one."
And the belief which Brother Diehl gave expression to in the above
'
",•onclusion," that the report which he had just closed would be his
lut one, may almost be considered prophetic, because, as previously
1 f1ted, Brother Diehl, before the assembling of another Grand Lodge,
h11d passed to his reward.
VERMONT, 1912.
The M: . w:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
•ltate of Vermont convened in its rooms in the Masonic Temple, city
of Burlington, on Wednesday, the 12th day of June, A. L. 5912, at the
hour of 10 o'clock in the forenoon, with Henry L. Ballou, Grand Master,
presiding.
Out of the 103 Lodges, 76 were represented at this Communication. The percentage of unrepresented Lodges, it would appear to an
nbeerver, is rather large.
In opening his address, Grand Master Ballou says :
"It is with satisfaction that we view the usefulness of our Institution. Working ofttimes in ways unknown to those outside its pale, it
has nevertheless been a potent factor in molding the life of our State.
lta work has largely been associated with the fountain of all life, the
human soul. By its symbolism, its constant reiteration of the great
1piritual truths in its ritual and charges, Masonry has been working
most profoundly, though silently to the outside world, in bringing a

•
182

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

better day for our Commonwealth. As quietly and as powerfully it has
worked on the hearts of its votaries as have the mighty forces of nature
that brought the spring and the summer out of the winter. The results
have been most marked though the agency has been hidden. The unloosing of ice-streams, the banishment of snow and cold, the bursting out
of ·pastures and forests and fields into green, · the clothing of gardens
and orchards with blossoms, are some of the brilliant results of springtime; but the cause and beginning have not attracted attention. It is
in the silent sunbeam and the gentle caress of the south wind. It is
hidden among the silent forces, as quiet and unobtrusive as the breath
of a child.
"So our Lodges have been quietly at work, the rough ashlars becoming perfect ashlars, polished and prepared for the temple beautiful.
Character has been developed to an extent little realized by the uninitiated. From our Lod11;e meetings the brethren have gone forth to affect
society profoundly. Like all sublime achievements and important results
strength has been conceived ·in the brooding places of silence. The
greatest tornado that ever swept over the sea was insignificant compared to the power over the ocean's depths exercised by the silent; ·
unheralded influence of the moonbeams that lift millions of tons of
water from the bed of the sea and hurls it along the shores of the continents. Thus has heen the influence of Masonry. It is silent, nevertheless it worketh like the leaven in the lump and the moonbeam on the
tide and its power for good is felt in every department of our civic life."

Olin ~cott, who pledged $20,000, and Mr. John H. Norton, who, with
hi» wife, gave the site valued at $5,000.

Under the heading "Fraternal Dead" he refers feelingly to the
death in the .year of Past Grand Master Alfred A. Hall and of Edwin
B. True, Past Grand Junior Deacon.
Of the condition of the Craft and the high standing Vermont
enjoys in the matter of the percentage of Masons to population, he
says:
"The population of Vermont has m.a de but little gain in the last
forty years, having increased but twenty-five thousand or less than eight
per cent. On the other hand the Masonic increase has been sixty-four
per cent. during these years, and in the last decade we have increased.
our membership twenty-six per cent. We did more work during the
past year than in any other of .the one hundred and nineteen of our
existence, having initiated 632 and raised 649. We are the strongest
Masonic Jurisdiction in our country, with the exception of Maine, in
proportion to our inhabitants, and we are gaining on our brethren of
the Pine Tree State. Our Lod11;es are well located to serve the communities within our borders and although the membership continues to
enlarl!'e, the personnel does not deteriorate as the new material is of the
best."
Of the Special Communication of the Grand Lodge held for the
purpose of laying the corner-stone of the new Masonic Temple in
Bennington, the Grand Master says :
"On August. 16th, a date memorable to all Vermonters, the Grand
Lodge was convened in special communication for the purpose of laying
the corner-stone of the new Masonic Temple in the historic village of
Bennington. The erection of this beautiful Temple was made possible
by the liberality of two of Bennington's prominent citizens, Colonel

•

•

*

*

~

•

*

*

*

•

183

• . •

"After the stone had been impressively laid I delivered a ·brief
address and the Grand Lodge soon closed, well satisfied with the conditlo~ o~ ¥asonry as we found it in the southwest corner of our Grand
]ur1sd1ction."
The Grand Master refers, in his address, to his visit to Alexandria
Va.1 in connection · with the second meeting of the George W ashingto~
Mnsonic National Memorial Association and strongly endorses · the
project and the participation therein by the Grand Lodge of Vermont.
From the report of the Grand Secretary, the information is
obtained that there are 13,443 Master Masons in the jurisdiction.
The following special reports from the Committee on Foreign
>rrespondence were adopted by the Grand Lodge :
"Y?Ur Committee on Fo.reign. Correspondence would courteously
rrport 1t · has. had und.er cons1deratl?n the r_equest of the Grand Logia
Soherana de Puerto Rico for recognition. This Grand Lodge was erected
I~ 1885. by tw.elve ~odges holding charters from the Grand Lodge of
Cuba with which tlus Grand Lodge has been in fraternal correspondence
f~ir many years, and ha.s reg1;1l'!-rlY exchanged representatives since 1891.
Cuban Masonry owes its origin to Lodges chartered originally by the
<irand Lodge of Pennsylvania and a Lodge chartered afterwards by the
<irand Lodge of South Carolina which united in the organization of
the Gr~nd Lodge of Cub"\·. The Grand Lodge of Puerto Rico thus
traces its ~enealogy to legitimate, well-established· sources of Masonic
power. . It is youched for by. the Mother Grand Lodge, as free .from all
rn~angh!1g alliances. It require~ of all applicants a belief in a Supreme
De1!1g: it h~s .th~ th;ee. G~e3;t Lights on its Altars, and is supreme Ma. •>n1cally within its iunsd1chon. Your committee therefore recommend
the adoption of the following resolution:
"Reso!ved, That ~he Grand Lodge of Vermont F. and A. M.- hereby reco1m1zes and hails the Grand Logia Soberana de Puerto Rico as
11 sovereign, le~itimate Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, and
requests the Grand Master of Vermont to arrange for an exchange of
<irand Representative's therewith."
. "Your Committe~ on J:"oreign Correspondence beg leave to report,
It is had under consideration a letter addressed to this Grand Lodge
from the Grand Lodge of Puerto Rico, under date of ·F ebruary 13 1912
nnd requesting this Grand Lodge to unite with other Grand Lodges of
the. country to 's ecure tl.1e enactment of a law by the Congress of the
I J1:11ted States that shall .mvest Puerto Ricans with full American citizenAh1p, etc. Your committee recommend courteous acknowledgment of
the receipt of the co!nmu!Jication, but feel. tha! this Grand Lodge should
take. no . further action, 1n accordance with its well defined policy of
keeping clear and free of a.ny and all political entanglements."
There is an able report of the Committee . on "Necrology'' by
!iarry J . Stannard, chairman, ' in which the deaths of those prominent
In Masonry throughout the various Grand Jurisdictions are rioted and
nppropriate words. of pra'ise and commendation spoken co~cerning
them.

•
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Marsh b . Perkins,
Past Grand Master.
California, 1911, is fraternally considered.
The munificent generosity of R.'. W.'. Brother Edward Coleman, in
giving to the jurisdiction the magnificent hospital at the Masonic Home
at Decato, is particularly referred to.
He erroneously credits the oration to Brother Monroe instead of
to Grand Orator Albert G. Burnett. He refers also in complimentary
language to the address delivered by Brother Shortridge at the laying
of the corner-stone of the new Masonic Temple in San Francisco.

"From the plans prepared . and the site selected, this will be one of
the handsomest Masonic institutions in America, and will not only be
an ornament to the great State of Pennsylvania, a monument to the
charity of our brethren of the Keystone State, but a grand example to
the Masonic world. It is with pride and gratitude I remember the cordial welcome and fraternal courtesies extended to your Grand Master
throughout this celebration."

184'

The Grand 1'Iaster reports a ye:!r of reasonable activity. Dispensations were granted to form two new Lo'dges, and numerous cornerstone ceremonies were held during the year.
The proposition is under consideration by the Grand Lodge of
Virginia of disposing of its prest>nt Masonic Home property, which
appears to be inadequate for the requirements of the jurisdiction, and
obtaining something more extensive, and to this end, in accordance with
the recommendation of the report "f the Committee on Masonic Home
the following resolution was adopted :
·
'

Eugene S. Weston, New Haven, elected Grand Master.
Henry H. Ross, Burlington, re-elected Grand Secretary.
VIRGINIA, 1912.
The One Hundred and Thirty-·fourth Grand Annual CommuniCation of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodg..-. of Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of Virginia \va~ begun and held in the Masonic
Temple, in the city of Richmond, on Tuesday, the 13th day of February, A. L. 5912, A. D. 1912, at 7 :30 o'clock p. m.-William B. McChesney,
Grand Master, presiding.
The Grand Master, under the h<?:.ding "visitations," refers partieularly to his visit to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania upon the occasion
of the celebration by it of its one hmcired and twenty-fifth anniversary,
and speaking of this visit says :
"September 25th, by invitation I had the honor and pleasure of
attending the !25th Anniversarv of the R.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, held in Philadelphia, in the Masonic Temple, said to be (and it
has that appearance) the handsomest building in the world used exclusivelv for Masonic purposes. The exercises were preceded on the 24th
by divine services held in old Christ church, where our illustrious brother, Geor17e Washington worshipped, which were impressive and interesting. Anniversary · exercises began at high twelve on the 25th, and
were attended by many representatives from other jurisdictions, and
Masons of Pennsylvania. It consisted of historical addresses from members of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, followed by acknowledgments from each representative from every Grand Jurisdiction present.
This instructive and entertaining exercise was followed by a banquet
whose magnificence and splendor could only have been provided by a
jurisdiction noted for its munificence and wealth, as is this Grand Lodge.
"By invitation of the R.'. W.'. Grand Master, on the 26th, I accompanied the Grand Lod!le to Elizabethtown, in Lancaster County, Pa.,
and oarticipated in the laying of the corner-stone of the Administration
Building at what is to be the Masonic Home of Pennsylvania. I, there
witnes~ed one of the largest Masonic gatherings I have ever seen. They
came from all over the State. the attendance of the Craft being estimated at 5,000. A masterly address was delivered by R.'. W.'. George
B. Orlady, Past Grand Master and Chairman of the Committee on Masonic Home.

185

"Resolved, That the Board of Governors of the Masonic Home of
Virginia be, and arc herebv, authorized and empowered to dispose of the
present site of the Masonic Home of Virginia, situated on the Nine-mile
Road, east of Richmond, if the said Board shall deem it wise to do so
and select another location and . erect thereon necessary buildings t~
safely ~nd adequately accommodate those eligible, who may apply ' for
adm1ss1on.
"After very mature consideration, a majority of the committee
voted to recommend the adoption of that resolution.
. "The committee w~s yery favorably impressed with the report sub...
m1tted by Brother Christian, and we commend him and the Board of
Governors for their faithful and zealous discharge of their duties."
Also the following :
"Resolved, That the Board of Governors of the Masonic Home of
Vi_rginia. be and are hereby, authorized and empowered to look for a
smtable location for the establi~hing and building of a new Masnnic
Home, an? to obtain options on. such pfopert.v, or properties, as they
may feel 1s hest adapted for tlus purpose, with the full idea in view
for the eco!lomical management and conducting of said Home, so that
the per capita of expenses mav be reduced; and that a general plan of
the lay-out be adopted by the Board, with an approximate cost of same ·
a.JI of which shall be submitted to the Grand Lodge for their ratifica~
t1on and acceptance, and after such ratification and acceptance by the
Grand Lodge, the said Board to sell, or dispose of, the present Home
to the best advantage that in their judgment they may deem wise."
The Report on Foreign Correspc,ndence is by Past Grand Master
Joseph W. Eggleston.
California, 1911, is briefly con~idered, with quotation, which he
designates as a "Masonic gem,'' from Grand Master Weller's address.
M.'. W.'. William L. Andrews, Roanoke, elected Grand Master.
R.'. W.'. Geo. W. Carrington, Richmond, re-elected Grand Secretary.

·.

30

•
186

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

WASHINGTON, 1911.
The Fifty-fourth Annual Communication of the M.· · W. ·. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of Washington convened in the
city of Spokane, on Tuesday, the 13th day of June, A. D. 1911, A. L.
5911, and was called to order by the M.'. W .'. Grand Master at the
hour of 10 o'clock a. m., with Grand Master Jeremiah Neterer presiding.
The address of welcome to the city of Spokane was delivered in a
very felicitous and charming manner by Rev. Brother William J. Hendley, w:. Master of Spokane Lodge No. 34, who also appears to have
been the Mayor of the city of Spokane, and the response to the address
of welcome was made by. the R. ·. W · ·. Brother Asa H. Hankerson,
Junior Grand Warden.
In. opening his address, the Grand Master says:
"There has been no marked distress among any of our brethren;
all are blessed with the comforts and many with the luxuries of. lif.e;
and enjoying a full meas_ure of health. From. eve~y part of the JUrISdiction come reports of mcreased numbers ~1th h.1gher startdards and
·m1bitions in ways of endeavor; of financial gams; of work more
~horoughly and certa.inly ?on~ ; of Masonic inspiration .absorbed and
impressed; of the d1ssemmation of brotherly love, relief and truth.
in good works and kindly acts, and of unbr9ken ha rmonr a!ld ~raternal
good-will within every part of our domam; and all md1cations are
that the present is but an index as to what the future has in store."

Under "Necrology" he refers to the death in the year of two Past
Grand Masters M.'. w:. Joseph Smith and M .. W.'. Louis Ziegler.
A memori~l address in memory of Past Grand Master Joseph Smith
was delivered hy M.'. w:. Brother Jos. M. Taylor, and on motion it
was ordered printed in the Proceedings.
A memorial address was also made by Past Grand Master Brother
J ohn Archer in memory of Past Grand Master Louis Ziegler, which
also, on motion, was ordered pririted in the Proceedings.
Dispensations to form seven new Lodges were granted by the Grand
Master; twelve corner-stone ceremonies took place within the year; two
Masonic Temples we~e dedicated, and other evidences of Masonic
activity are disclosed from a reading of the Grand Master's report.
Of the Masonic Home project the Grand Master says:
"Jn compliance with a resolution passed at the last session of the
Grand Lodge, the committee appointe? on ~asonic ,Home. h.as, I un9er·
,tand, given the subject m1:1ch consideration. It has v1s1ted vap~us
portions of the State a1~d will no daub~ make to you a comprehensive
report, accompanied by its rec?mm~ndations.
.
"I am deeply interested m this Home pro3ect and trus~ that ~he
committee may be able to present a rep_ort .and recommendat1.on w!uch
may be adopted, or if not adopted that 1t will provo~e such d1scuss10ns
and elicit such suggestions ,,and plans as may result m such a Home ll.S
the fraternity should have.
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

18.7

The following paragraphs are quoted from the "conclusion" of the
Crand Master's address:
"I believe that Masonry is worth while; that it stands for something.
I believe that it is as enduring as the hills and that in the upbuildfog
of our institutions and in the advancement of our civilization its influence has been and will be a strong agency in the constructive order
of things that are of real value. Masonry, if it is anything, is a constructive institution, and if it would advance with the advancing civilization it must develop into a strong constructive force, and form into
nctive operation the growing mind of to-day, which will be the ruling
force to-morrow. We must impress upon every neophite not only the
5igns and secrets of this institution, but also impress upon his mem,ory
and inspire into his life and into the life of every individual the principles of Masonry which are contained within the extended points of the
compasses, and place upon the trestle board of life designs which should
and must govern every man who enters its portals, and inspire every
person with whom we may come in contact.
"We are constantly reminded in every admonition that is given us
from the time we enter the threshold of Masonry that our first duty
is to God; our next to our country, our neighbor and ourselves. We
are repeatedly reminded of our duty to the widow and the orphan, and
to protect the chastity of the family of our brother. What greater
service can Masonry do as a constructive force than to assist the
rotmg and growing mind? There is a great opportunity for Masonry
111 this jurisdiction; ye, in the world.
The boy of to-day is the man
of to-morrow, and as the mind of the boy is trained so will the man be.
The future of our sacred institution and of our country depends upon
the boy and the girl of to-day.
"Masonry is not a kindergarten, nor a reformatory, nor is it primarily an institution of charity, but is an institution for character
building. an institution whose object is to make its votaries wiser and
hetter men, and the points of whose compasses extend beyond the
limits of active membership. What greater can a Mason do than to
he alive to the welfare of the growing boy and lend this additional
influence in guiding the destinies of the world?" Here there is great
need, and much can be done to add to the strength, beauty and adornment of our civilization."
·
·
From the Grand Treasurer's report it appears that the Grand Lodge
assets, invested almost wholly in bonds and securities, reach a total of
$98.381.20.
The W .'. Brother John W . Flesher, Grand Orator, delivered the
annual address on "The Genius of Masonry," which was vastly appreciated by the Grand Lodge, and, on motion oi R.'. W.'. Brother Ray S.
I layward, was ordered printed in the Proceedings.
In accordance with a report from M.'. W.'. Stephen J , Chadwick,
chai rman of the Committee on Correspondence, recognition for the
present was denied to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico, also to the
Grand Orient of Italy.
Upon the consideration of the report of the Masonic Home Committee the Puyallup site was chosen.
By order of the Grand Lodge the address of Past Grand Ma'ster
Chadwick, at the laying of the corner-stone of the Masonic Temple at

•
188

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

North Yakima was printed in the Proceedings, and 250 copies of the
address in pamphlet form were ordered for distribution among the
Lodges, the address being considered one of the best and most eloquent
of its kind ever delivered in the Grand Jurisdiction of Washingt?n.
Concerning the plan for general management of the Masonic Home,
the report of the Jurisprudence Committee, as follows, was adopted by
the Grand Lodge :
"Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred that
portion of the report of the Committee on Masonic Home relating to a
plan for the general management of the same, do recommend that their
suggestion be approved for the ensuing year.
"Your committee would also recommend that the committee provided for in the report shall formulate more elaborate and detailed plans
for the future control and regulation of the Home, and to report at the
next stated Communication of the Grand Lodge.
"We also would recommend that the immediate expenditure of
money be limited to that which is necessary to perfecting a title to
the property donated by the brethren of Puyallup, and the fitting up
of the buildings now on the premises for immediate use, and for its
care and maintenance, until further authorized by the Grand Lodge."
The number of Master Masons upon the rolls at this time is 15;676,
a net gain over the preceding year of 1,273.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by M.". W:. Stephen
J . Chadwick, Past Grand Master.
From Brother Chadwick's "conclusion" we quote:
"Mindful of changing conditions, I would add another word : To
the student who can look back over the orogress of the race, the light of
history reveals an ever-seething cauldron of human emotion. Man by
nature is dissatisfied. If to this fault we may attribute our troubles, we
may find consolation in the thought that out of it has come our material
progress. The finished steel is the fruit not only of the upheavals of
nature, but also of the refining processes of man. In nature the rocks and
rivers become the parents of our fertile valleys; and so with men. Out
of the grindings of human thought and emotion civilized government'has
come.
"It. is so to-day ; we are in a period of transition, a revolution' as
distinct and as certain as any to · be found in the tomes and volumes
which treat of other generations. This revolution is and will be
bloodless; but its r'e snlts will be more important to humanity than all
of those which. have gone before. In it every Mason has a part to
elay. Between the extremes of thought there is a middle ground where
Justice must walk, blind, unmindful of the selfish demands of either
side. To walk by her side and to sustain her, to see that demagoguery
does not' destroy logic, and that selfishness-that selfishness that would
fatten upon the wants and necessities of men and of women and of li'ttle
children-does not shackle the lives and souls of men, is the duty of the
hour. Masonry profasses to put man above the dollar; let it be so, for
the revolution now upon us comes from an unrest which is, as it seems
.~o me, the natural outgrowth .of the unequal distribution of wealth."

189

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

It will be with general regret that Masonic circles will learn of the
withdrawal of Brother Chadwick from the corps of reviewers of
Masonic reports, because in this work he has displayed marked ability.
llis comments have always been illuminating and his contr.ibutions .of·
the highest order of merit.
We quote his concluding words as follows:
"I conceive the work to be too imoortant to slight; and however
flattering the remarks of my fellows have been, I feel that I have
not done my best work; therefore I have insisted that this work be put
upon another.
"To those noble men whose words have inspired me to nobler deeds
and higher thoughts, I can say but little:
" ' 'Twixt such friends as we few words suffice.'
"If, in the heat of discussion, I have said ·aught that has given
offense, I pray that it be forgiven and foq~·otten. I have endeavored
to be just in my judgments and fair in my criticisms. If I have praised,
it was because I thought praise was due; if I have condemned, it has
hcen for the sake of the Masonic institution as I conceive it to be, and
not from any desire to be captious or malicious. I have not willfully
watered my words with flattery or tinctured my speech with the bitterness of acrimon)'. ·~ ···
"I shall not dwell upon the accomnlishments of the living; but to
one who has lived in a Masonic atmosphere since childhood, it is not
out of place to say that to have received Masonic instruction at the
hands of Drummond, Cunningham, Robbins, Vinci!, Hodson, Inglesby,
Barlow, Hedges, Wait, and men of like character, is a reward far greater
than can be measured ·in money or in words.
"I have personal acquaintance with but two correspondents; but the
older members of our guild, those who were here when I came, are well
known to me. So frank and open are the natures of these men that,
though the flesh be far away, their spirits have shared my moods when
following their words and works.
"I can say with Vincentio:

" 'There is a kind of character in thy life
That to the observer doth thy history
Fully unfold. Thyself and thy belongings
Are not thine own so proper, as to waste
Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee.
Heaven doth with us as we with torches do,
Not light them for ourselves; for if our virtues
Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike
As if we had them not.

*

•

*

•

•

•

•

•

So, fare you well :
To the hopeful execution do I leave you
Of your commissions.' "
In Brother Chadwick's final report there is a review of California,
1910.

•

190

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Speaking of Brother Charles A. Adams' oration; the learned
reviewer says :
"To Brother Charles A. Adams must be given the distinctive honor
of pronouncing the best oration of the year. His subject, 'Masonry in
Business and Politics,' called for his best effort, and so well pleased was
the Grand Lodge that 10,000 copies were ordered printed for general
distribution."
He compliments Brother Adams by a lengthy quotation from his
address.
David S. Prescott, Spokane, elected Grand Master.
Horace W. Tyler, Tacoma, re-elected Grand Secretary.
WESTERN AUSTRALIA, 1912.
A Quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge of Western
Australia was held at Boulder, July 27, 1911, and the Lodge was opened
in Due Form by R." . W.". Deputy Grand M aster Brother J. S. Battye.
The Deputy Grand Master made a report upon the general con- ·
dition of the Craft in the jurisdiction ; a report was also rendered by
the Board of General Purposes touching matters of interest to the
Craft, after which the Quarterly Communication closed.
The Quarterly Communication of October 26, 1911, was presided
over by the M.". W.'. Grand Master Brother the Right Rev. C. 0. L.
Riley, D. D., Lord Bishop of Perth.
In his address, rendered at this time, he set forth a list of official
visita tions made by him of his list of dispensations granted for various
purposes.
The report of the Board of Benevolence for the quarter was submitted, and on motion duly approved, a fter which the Quarterly Com·
munication was closed.
The Quarterly Communication of January 25, 1912, was presided
over by the M ." . W." . Grand M~ster, in which he rendered his report
covering the activities of the Grand Master during the' preceding quar.t er, and at this time also were rendered the usual reports from the
Board of General Purposes, Board of Benevolence, etc.
At this Communication also took place the nomination and election
of Grand Master M.". W.". Brother Si·r Winthrop Hackett, P. G. M.,
said for the ninth time i.n succession, and ~ithout eulogy or commendation of any kind nominated C. 0. L. Riley, L ord Bishop of Perth, to
be re-elected Grand Master, and, there being no other nomination, the
R.". W .'. C. 0 . L . Riley, Lord Bishop of Perth, was unanimously
elected for the ensuing year.
In recognition of this honor the M ." . W ." . Grand Master said:
"He supposed the reason why they were kind enough to re-elect. him
was because he was a 'retiring' Grand Master. Such was his nature.
But, apart from any levity, if time were a little longer, he might say at ·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

191

length what he really felt in his heart for their kindness duri~g all th.use
years. The only thing he could promise was to try and do ?is d~1ty impartially. He was gi:ateful t~ the P_ast Gran~ M3;ster, Sir Winthrop
Hackett, for his con't inuous kindness in proposing him, and to the De~­
uty Grand Master, R.'. W.'. Brother Battye, and all of them, for thell"
perpetual kindness to him while in the chair. It was om: of the greatest
possible honors they could confer on any man."
The Quarterly Communication of April 25, 1912, was presided over
by the M.'. W.'. Brother C. 0 . L . Riley, Lord Bishop of Perth, Grand
Master.
The Grand Master, in his report, says concerning "membership"
that in 1900 the Grand Lodge was formed of 33 Lodges and a membership of 2,000.
There are now, so he says, 91 Lodges with a membership of 3,780,
a gain during the year of 53.
From the Grand Treasurer's financial statement, it appears that the
Grand Lodge has funds aggregating £27,510, equivalent to about $140,000,
and when it is considered that the total membership of the Grand Jurisdiction of Western Australia is less than half the membership of the
Lodges of San Francisco we must conclude that financially this jurisdiction is in a very sound condition.
There is a report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence by
a board of several members.
California, 1911, is briefly and courteously reviewed.
· Quotations are made from the address of Grand Master Weller and
the oration of W .'. Brother Albert G. Burnett.
M." . W .". Brother the Rt. Rev. C. 0 . L. Riley, Lord Bishop of
Perth, re-elected Grand Master.
J .. D. Stevenson, elected Grand Secretary.
WEST VIRGINIA, 1911.
The Forty-seventh Annual Communication of the M.'. W.'. Grand
Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted Masons of the State of West
Virginia was held in the Masonic Temple, at the city of Charleston,
commencing on Wednesday, the 15th c.ay of November, A. D. 1911, A. L.
5911, at 7 :30 o'clock p. m.-Wyndham Stokes, Grand Master, presiding.
· The Grand Master, in his annual address, reports having attended
the Centennial Celebration of the Grand Lodge of the District of
Columbia. The affair was enjoyed t0 the utmost by himself.
He also speaks of his being present at the meeting of the Washington National Memorial A~s'ociation at Alexandria, Va., in February
preceding.

•
192

193

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

On the subject of laying the comer-stones -of churches the Grand
Master says:
"I have issued several proxies for the laying of corner-stones of
churches, but confess I have had my doubts about my power to do it,
but, as the Grand Masters who have preceded me have done it, I have
not felt justified in refusing these requests.
" It will be remembered that Grand Master Showalter refused to
issue a dispensation to a Lodge to attend divine service, and I followed
in his footsteps in that particular, but the question as to whether or
not we should lay a corner-stone of a church is a matter which presents cr nsiderable difficulties. We are supposed to lay the cornerstone of public buildings, and a church is not, in my opinion, such a
public building for which we are justified in laying corner-stones. We
are never asked, as far as I know, to lay the corner-stone of a Jewish
synagogue, or a Catholic church, but we lay the corner-stones of Methodist, Baptist and other churches. As I understand it, a public building
is one in which every person has the same rights, and this is not true
o f a denominational church-an Episcopalian has no business in a Presbyterian church, nor has a Baptist any right in a Methodist church.
Therefore, I should suggest that this Grand Lodge express its opinion
in regard to the matter and settle this question for all time, mx view
being that a church is not such a public building as we are allowed by
the landmarks of the Craft to supervise the laying of a corner-stone.
If we cannot attend divine service, and the Grand Lodge has held 'fie
cannot, why should we lay the corner-stone of an edifice in which services are held ?"

the Eastern Star, and that they be forbidden to meet in our Lodge
rooms. It is just as much an independent order as that. of the Odd
Fellows or the Knights of Pythias, but we allow them to meet in our
Lodge rooms in the same manner as if they were a branch of the
Masons."
"The Committee on Foreign Correspondence of Western Australia,
in commenting upon Oregon, gives a pretty fair history of the Adopted
Rites in the following:
" Until we read Brother Hodson's report, we had always looked upon
the Eastern Star 'fad' as merely an amiable weakness of our American brethren. We know his fondness for 'conventions' when he takes
his womankind along, and there are short business meetings and
long intervals for amusements ; and we had looked upon the Eastern Star business as a sort of excuse to associate with ladies in a
so-called lodge, for the ·reason that they could not be accepted into
the Craft.
"We take this opportunity to fraternally · but thoroughly disabuse
the minds of all American brethren of any hope that the Eastern Star
'fad' is likely to secure a home here. We are thorough believers
in the 'no women' landmark, and the mere suggestion that Grand
Lodge should call off to receive a delegation of Grand Matrons from
an unmasonic body, such as the Order of the Eastern Star, would be
howled down, and if persisted in would raise rebellion. For the information of the brethren in this State we may say that the Androgynous
Institution (institution for both sexes) known as the Order of the
Eastern Star was invented by Rob Morris in 1855. It consists of five
•
degrees.
"l. Jepthah's daughter, or the daughter's degree.
"2. Ruth, or the widow's degree.
"3. Esther, or the wife's degree.
"4. Martha, or the sister's degree.
"5. Electa, or the Christian Martyr's degree.
"It is not only in America that attempts have been made to introduce Androgynous Masonry (Masonry for both sexes).
"For nearly 200 years attempts have been made from time to time
to introduce women into speculative Freemasonry. France has been
one of the greatest sinners. About 1730 they introduced what they
called 'Meconnerie d' Adoption,' because each female or adoptive lodge
was obliged to be adopted or appended to an ordinary Craft Lodge.
"In Paris, about 1743, was formed 'L' Order des Felicitaires.' The
name speaks for itself. The female members were supposed to be
on a voyage to the Island of Felicity, in ships navigated by the brethren.
"Other similar societies sprang up, and eventually arose the System
of Lodges of Adoption. The Grand Orient of France assumed protection of these lodges about the end of the eighteenth century, but I do
not know whether any of them now exist. There is in France a system
called co-Masonry, which admits women, and which has no connection with Freemasonry, and is regarded as bogus and disreputable,
and so the adoptive rite has appeared from time to time, wherever
brethren have been weak enough to be led away by it, until at last it
seems to have settled in America, where our good brethren seem to
have a severe attack of the adoptive rite malady, which, like other
fevers, will no doubt take its deoarture in due time, leaving the patient
weak and debilitated."

Upon general principles he is opposed to granting dispensation to
reballot, and upon this subject says·
. "I have h<;td two applications for the recirculation of the ballot upon
r ei ected c~nd1dates, and have refused both of them. This is, really,
a very serious matter, and unless there are good grounds showing that
there is a mistake, do not think a dispensation for that purpose should
be granted.
"In the first place, should the man who has cast the black ball aisclose the fact, he is guilty of a Masonic offense, and, in the second
place, should he not do so, he may sign the petition for a recirculation
in order to hide the fact that it was he who did it, or he may be so
terrorized by his brethren that he will admit a man against whom there
is a valid objection."
Of the use of Lodge rooms by other organizations, we quote . the
Grand Master as follows :
. " I find that very few of the Lodge rooms are used by any organizations except Free Masons and concordant bodies, but have discovered
the fact that the Ladies' Shriqe meets in the Lodge room of the Temple at Wheeling. They are supposed' to he the daughters and wives
of the members of the Mystic Shrine, but have been repudiated by the
Mystic Shrine, and have no standing in Masonry, and I should, therefore. SU!!'gest that they be forbidden to meet in the Masonic Temple
at Wheeling, and that this matter he taken up at once.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*.

*

*

•

*

*

"Like Grand Master Showalter, I should earnestly recommend that
the recognition of the Grand Lodge be withdrawn from the Order ·of

194

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

On the suhject of Masonic Home, the Grand Master repudiates the
idea of joining with the Order of the Eastern Star in builaing a Home.
This is what he says:
"Upon the application of the Grand Matron of the Order of Eastern
Star in regard to the building of a Masonic Home under the joint
auspices of the Grand Chapter of the Eastern Star and the Grand Lodge
of this State, I wrote her that I did not think the Grand Lodge would
unite with that order in building a Home."
The Committee on Jurisprudence, whose views appear to have been
adopted by the Grand Master, recommends that the matter of the use
of the Masonic Hall, when not occupied, was a matter wholly in the
power of the subordinate Lodges to dispose of.
M.". W.". Brother George Atkinson, Past Grand Master, delivered
an address upon "Freemasonry and Citizenship," for which he received
the thanks of the Grand Lodge, and upon motion of M.". w:. Brother
Wyndham Stokes was requested to furnish a copy for publication in the
Proceedings.
From the statistical recapitulation the information is obtained that
the number of members at this time is 14,874, a gain during the year of

806.
The Grand Secretary, Hiram S. Howard, again submits the Report
on Foreign Correspondence.
He reviews California, 1910, in which he speaks of Brother Adams'
oration as follows :
"Brother Charles A. Adams delivered the annual oration. The
subject was 'Masonry in Business and Politics.' It was entir4?1Y out of
the beaten paths of such addresses, and was so much appreciated that
the hearty thanks of the Grand Lodge were extended to Brother Adams
and 10,000 copies of his address ordered printed, to be distributed by
the .Grand Secretary to the Craft throughout the jurisdiction."
And of Brother Owen's' report on the Status of Masonry i~ the
Philippine hfands as follows :
"A final and most exhaustive report of the special committee · on
the Status of Freemasonry in the Philippines was made, and while the
resolutions accompanying it were .'not adopted, it is gratifying that the
report itself was deemed of such importance as to be preserved by printing in the Proceedings. The general summing up of the committee may
be said to be that Spanish symbolical Masonry is irr~ular and piratical
and should be discountenanced by all regular Masons."
M.". W.". John M. McConihay, Charleston, elected Grand Master.
M.". W .". Hiram R. Howard, Martinsburg, re-elected Grand Secretary.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
WISCONSIN, 1912.
The Sixty-eighth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of Wisconsin was opened in
Ample Form in the Masonic Building, corner of Jefferson and Oneida
streets, in the city of Milwaukee, at the hour of 2 o'clock p. m., on
Tuesday, June 11, 1912, A. L. 5912, with Alexander E . Matheson, Grand
Master, presiding.
The Grand Master, in his address, states that a condition of harmony exists in the jurisdiction and that only minor differences, which
have been adjusted, have occurred.
He mentions the death in the year of Dr. D. McL. Miller, Past
Grand Master, and states that he requested Brother David B. Greene,
R. ·. W . ·. Deputy Grand Master, to prepare a memorial for Brother
Miller.
A number of decisions of a local character, touching the construction of the Constitution and Edicts of the jurisdiction, are mentioned.
The Grand Master reports the issuance during the year of 59
special dispensations, 49 of them being for the purpose of waiving certain · articles of the Constitution.
Wisconsin occupies a unique position, so far as its Constitution is
concerned, inasmuch as the Grand Master has power to waive certain
sections of the Constitution upon payment of certain stipulated fees.
Sundry Special Communications of the Grand Lodge were held for
the purpose of placing corner-stones, dedicating Masonic .Temples, etc.
From the report of the Grand Trustees, it appears that the net
assets of the Grand Lodge aggregate $47,420.22.
A Past Grand Master's jewel was presented to Past Grand Master
Ernest Gatchell on behalf of the Grand Lodge by the Grand Chaplain,
]. Thorrias Pryor, Jr. The presentation was made in appropriate language, and was responded to gracefully and feelingly by Brother
Gatchell.
A pleasing incident occurred in the session when Brother J. Thomas
Pryor, Jr., Grarid Chaplain, who, having entered Grand Lodge for the
first time on June 11, 1872, and having, therefore, been a member of
the Grand Lodge for forty years, and a regular a ttendant of the sessions, was accompanied to the East by Brother Aldro Jenks, Grand
Master, and accorded the Grand Honors.
In accordance with the report of the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, the following concerning the memorial to Washington the
Mason, etc., was adopted:
"At the request of the Grand Master we have carefullv considered
the subject of a Memorial to Washington the Mason at Ale~andria, Va .,
1nd see no reason why we should change the recommendation we made
one and two years ago, and therefore recommend that no action be taken
l}y this Grand Lodge in regard to the matter."

•
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
Hl6

]IJ7

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

From the report of the Committee on Returns one learns that the
total membership December 31, 1911, was 27,233, a gain of 812 over
the preceding year.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as usual, by Past Grand
Master Aldro Jenks.
California, 1911, is courteously reviewed.
Brother Jenks' reports are always highly entertaining and instructive. He is one of the great men of his jurisdiction and occupies a
high position in the Masonic world generally.
David B. Greene, Neosho, elected Grand Master.
Wm. W. Perry, Milwaukee, re-elected Grand Secretary.
WYOMING, 1911.
A portrait of M.'. W.'. Brother Harold Banner, the newly elected
Grand Master, forms the frontispiece, and the Proceedings are also
embellished with the portrait of the Grand Secretary, who is likewise
chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, the R. ·. w. ·.
W. L. Kuykendall.
The Grand Lodge, A. F. and A. M., of Wyoming, met in Annual
Communication in Cheyenne, Wyo., September 6 and 7, 1911-Grand
Master Hugh Hynds presiding.
The Grand Master, in opening his address, says :
"The year which has passed has been marked with many substanti;l
benefits to us as members of our great brotherhood, whose universality
is as extensive as the world itself, and whose influence and power are
only limited by the confines Qf civilization. It gives me pleasure to
announce to you that peace and good fellowship has prevailed througbout this jurisdiction, and that, although we have not advanced with
great strides still we are increasing in numbers and influence. We have
laid our Masonic foundation good and strong, and are building the superstructure upon it with care and deliberation, and upon the broad principles of morality, virtue and truth. Our financial condition and memhership continue to improve and we may by economy and thrift confidently look forward to the accomplishment of some Masonic undertakini< which will prove of lasting benefit to the membership of this
Grand Lodge and Grand Jurisdiction."
Under the heading "Necrology" the Grand Master enumerates with
profound sorrow the list of brethren called during the year "from
labor here to everlasting refreshment above."
Grand Master Hynds reports the laying of three corner-stones
under Masonic auspices, viz: the new high school building at Laramie,
the high school building at Buffalo and the Masonic Temple at Laramie.
The Grand Master rendered a number of decisions, upon purely
local questions; he made a dozen or more official visitations to subordinates during the year; he recommends the adoption of an official
cnrd receipt and that it be made uniform throughout the jurisdiction.

Grand Secretary Kuykendall introduces his annual report as
follows:
"For the twenty-fifth time I submit my annual report as ·your Gr;~md
Secretary. During all that time I have endeavored to do my duty faithfully as a man, a Mason and as an official of this Grand Lodge. I have
labored early and late to give this Grand Jurisdiction prestige with all
others which I believe has been accomplished. In all this work every
act of 'mine has been guided by what I have believed, after due investigation in all cases, to be right, just and for the best interest of our fraternity locally and as a whole, and now, at the close of this quarter
of a century of such work, it is a pleasure to submit this report for
such action as may be deemed necessary thereon."
As evidence of the esteem in which Grand Secretary Kuykendall is
held, the following is quoted from the report of the Proceedings of the
Grand Lodge :
"At this stage of the proceedings, and during a lull in business,
Past Grand Master C. N. Potter, on behalf of Past Grand Master E. F.
Cheney, for the Grand Lodge, in a very eloquent and touching manner
and speech, presented to W. L. Kuy~enda,11, the Grand S~cretary, a fine
scarf pin and sleeve butto~s, set with d1~mond~, to which . the Grand
Secretary, with great emotion, responded in f~eling and fitting expressions of appreciation and thanks for the tangible tokens of confidence
and good will of the members of Grand Lodge.
RESOLUTIONS.

"Whereas, Brother W. L. Kuykendall has for the past quarter of a
century discharged the duties of Grand Secretary for the Grand Lodge of
Wyoming with distinguished ability; and
" Whereas The Grand Lodge of Wyoming desires to place on record
some recognition of the valuable services rendered this Grand Lodge by
Brother Kuykendall; therefore, be it
"Rl.'solved That the Grnnd Lod~e of Wyoming hereby expresses
L. Kuykendall, Grand Secretary, its appreciation o,f ,his
to Brother
services, the fidelity with which he has discharged eve:y duty perta1mng
to his office, and of its confidence in and respect for him, both as a man
and Mason ; be it further
" Rl.'sohied That this resolution be spread at large upon the records
.
of the Grand 'Lodge and printed as a part of its PrC!ceedings.
"On motion of Past Grand Master Perry L. Smith, the foregoing
resolutions were adopted by a unanimous rising vote, except that of the
Grand Secretary."
From the statistical summary it appea.rs that the total membership
of Wyoming at this time is 2,639, the same being an increase of 86
over the preceding year.
Grand Secretary Kuykendall, as chairman of the Correspondence
Committee, submits his report as. usual. ·
California, 1910, is fraternally reviewed.
Speaking of the report of the Jurisprudence Committee, wherein it
recommended that the report of the special committee on the subject of
the Status of Masonry in the Philippine Islands be received with the

w:

•
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

thanks of the Grand Lodge, but that certain recommendations 'made
therein looking to the termination of fraternal relations with certain
Grand Bodies that recognized the Lodges in the Philippine Islands,
chartered by the Grand Orient of $pain, says :
"In our opinion here was a chance to have opened the way through
the adoption of said special report and resolutions for drawing the
line definitely between regular, irregular and clandestine Masonry. It
is too bad that every regular Craft Mason in the United States cannot read said special report and resolutions. which would without a
doubt be approved by a large majority upon a referendum vote or
upon Lodge instructio n. We agree with nearly every argument and
finding in said special report, especially the unanswerable statement
of fact admitted to be such by every Grand Lodge in this country,
that no Supreme Council or any man ever connected with Scottish
Rite Masonry ever had any right or power to confer or authorize the
conferring of the t 'ree 1...raft or Symbolic degrees anwhere. It is
admitted by nearly if not every Masonic student and writer that no
such power ever existed. Certainly if it legally exists in any country
we have no right to deny it in this country. The supreme height of
inconsistency is reached when a Grand Lodge declares against the
existence of such power and at the same time admits its existence
through recognizing as Masons men upon whom said degrees were
conferred in Scottish Rite Lodges chartered by Supreme Councils.
The insidious arguments advanced by a few on this question, coupled
with such recognition granted by a few of our Grand Lodges, has
laid the foundation for the claim recently made in several quarters
that under the word universality we should accept and recognize
every brand of so-called Masonry, whether clandestine, irregular or
under ban. We hope said report and resolutions will be called up
again and be adopted, thereby opening the way for the supremacy of
our regular Masonry without any half-breed entanglements or by mix!'
ing up with the latter hecome as they are, political machines, and iii
great measure unmasonic, as most of them are well known to be."

be legally conferred by any other Rite. Therefore, the granting of
such charters and conferring of said degrees has been assumed by
other Rites in foreign countires without any authority whatever, so far
as our knowledge of any evidence worthv the name is concerned. In
support of our contention the two regular Scottish Rite bodies of this
country do not claim that they have any right or power to grant Lodge
charters or to confer said degrees. Such being the case, certainly the
same Rite elsewhere has not and never possessed such power, and yet
the Grand Lodge of Craft Masonry have been and are being importuned
continually to grant recognition to Grand Lodges and Grand Orients
organized by such illegal Lodges. We regret to say that the argument
is used that they should be recognized because they represent the dominant Rite in some foreign countries and that a few of our Grand Lodges
have listened to the voice of the siren by granting recognition to such
illegal bodies, thus endorsing the unlawful assumption of powers nonexistent. We are not questioning the action of any Grand Lodge in this
matter, as we have no right to do so, but it does seem that committees,
instead of diligently seeking for something to recognize, should carefully
investigate the parentage of Grand Bodies from a legal standpoint, based
upon Craft Masonry, before recommending recognition, especially when
grief is liable to be the outcome in doses or as a whole eventually. As
a member of the Scottish Rite we claim to be as loyal thereto as any
member, and as ready to fight the battles of the two regular bodies
thereof in this country. They are now in a position to take care of
themselves through having a great field of material to draw upon, and
if recognizing of other bodies of the Rite or anything emanating therefrom is absolutely necessary they are the proper organizations to grant
such recognition as applying to themselves alone, thereby leaving Grand
Lodges of Craft Masonry to only consider the legitimacy of applicants
for recognition belonging to the latter. They are separate and distinct
rites and should so remain, except upon the ground existing between
them in this country, and we are of the opinion that a few Scottish
Rite Masons who, as reporters, committees on correspondence and
writers, are advocating and recommending the recognition of illegal,
so-called Grand Bodies directly in opposition to the well-defiried position
of both Rites in this country to which they owe obedience, are making
a grave mistake, which will result eventually in endless trouble and
complications detrimental, if not absolutely dangerous, to the supremacy
of Craft or York Rite Masonry in controlling the conferring of the
Craft degrees, which we are unalterably opposed to srurendering, either
directly or indirectly, to any other Rite in this country or elsewhere.
''The question of any regular Grand Lodge having recognized an
in<lividual Mason or man claiming to be such through official action
before recognizing his Grand Lodge, has never been attempted but once
within our knowledge. The result of such action is well known, and yet
we /ind a few high in the councils of the Craft advocating the heresy
that they are above Grand Lodges in having the right to recognize and
fellowship with any man claiming to he a Mason who they may choose,
irrespective of whether or not his Grand Lodge has been declared to be
regular and has been recognized by their Grand Lodges or not, and who,
if we mistake not, have in their travels in Europe, South America and
elsewhere visited Lodges which have not been recognized as regular by
their Grand Lodges, even going so far as to fraternize with Masons
and Lodges of the Grand Orient of France, which their Grand Lodges
have declared non-intercourse with. On this see South Carolina and
others in this report. If we as regular Masons are going to retrograde

198

Brother Kuykendall's views on Ancient Craft Masonry are of
unquestioned soundness and orthodoxy, and we quote the larger pore
tion of his "conclusion," the ideas therein set forth being of interest to
Masonic students, even though some may not agree fully with bis
position:
" On the first question it will probably not be disputed that se.veral
brands of regular and also of so-called Masonry exist, divided into
and known as rites, only two of which we consider as having any
standing, namely Ancient Craft Masonry, dubbed the 'York Rite,' with
which the Chapter and Commandery organizations claim connectioµ,
and the 'Scottish · Rite.' That Ancient Craft Masonry great!~ antedates all other brands will also probably not be disputed. That it
established the first Grand Lodges or organized bodies which rightly
claimed sole control over speculative Craft Masonry because of organizing same and the granting of Lodge charters and the sole right to
confer. the Craft degrees has never, to our knowledge, been successfully denied. Such being the case, reason and common sense dictate
that, having assumed such power and control, no agreement would be
or ever has been legally entered into with anv other Rite for a division
thereof whereby Lodge charters could be granted or the Craft degrees

19!1

•
200

REPORT ON CORRESPONDltNCE.

and go back to the go-as-you-please style of operative Masonry, when
no Grand Lodges existed and chaos instead of a well-formulated system
of government with Sovereign Grand Lodges as the supreme power, then
let us get there as quickly as possible, for that it what the heresy of
such personal recognition of individual Masons and Lodges as first promulgated and advocated by Brother Upton means. With such a doctrine generally accepted, Grand Lodges will be figure-heads and a useless expense and in the way, opened for individual recognition of clandestine negro Masons, as Upton advocated and intended should be
accomplished, and the great millennium day of universality will have
dawned with the blind leading the blind, who cannot or will not see that
a great army of Masons in this countrv will not travel. with them down
the road to Masonic destruction for universality of the brand and composed of the elements advocated, or any other impossibility. Such individual recognition of Masons and Lodges and advocacy of universality
for a purpose are the rocks upon which the bark of regular Masonry will
be wrecked unless better counsels prevail. When leading Masons here
and there begin to openly advocate such individual recogn.ition of
men as Masons, and their right to visit any Lodge they please, it is,
in our opinion, about time for all other Masons and especially reporters,
to open up a crusade against such a heresy, as well as against the kind
of universality emanating in certain quarters in Europe for a pflrpose
well known to themselves and a few sympathizers and abettors, in this
country. We believe there is more danger to our Craft Masonry in
said theoretical doctrines and the promiscuous recognition of so-called
Grand Lodges and Grand Orients than in all other questions confronting
our fraternity. So believing, we shall, alone if necessary, continue t-0
combat said doctrines in their infancy and not pass them up for others
to fight in the future when they have arrived at maturity and have
become a dangerous menace to Craft Masonry. Relating to all this we
call the attention of our readers to England, Quebec, Montana, Louisiana,
Florida, Massachusetts, District of Columbia and others in this report."
Harold Banner, Casper, elected Grand Master.
W. L. Kuykendall, Saratoga, re-elected Grand Secretary. ·

INDEX.
A
Accounts-Report of Committee on .............................. 102
Affiliation Pee, Remission of Forbidden ........................... 152
Alphabetical List of Lodges . .. ... . ... ... .. . . . ... . ....... .. .. . .. . 262
Alphabetical Location of Lodges ...... .... ... . . . .. .............. :zn
Amendments to By-Laws Proposed by Lodges ..... ........ ... .... 45
Amendments to Constitution .... . . . . .. 24, 41, 141, 211, 212, 213, 215, 240
Annotated Constitution-Distribution of ..... ..... .... ............ .;o
Publication of. ......................... 40
Remarks of Grand Master as to ... . .. ... . 13
Annual Address of Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Appendix to Grand Master's Address ..... : ... ... . ....... ... : ..... 28
Assets of Grand Lodge ... .. ....... . .. . . ...... . .... . . ...... . .... • 56
, \ppropriations by Finance Committee .. ............. . ........ 165, 179

B
l:loards of Relief-Appropriations for .... ..... ... .. ...... .. . . . ... 165
Grand Master's Remarks 011 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 10
Reports of-Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Oakland . .. ... . ..... . .......... ... 72
Sacramento ....................... 78
San Diego ..... . .. .... ........ .. ; . 75
San Francisco ........ . ..... , ..... 59
.
San Jose ....................... , , 76
Building Fund for Masonic Homes . .......... ... .... , .. , .... 135, 164
Business Unfinished .. . .. . . ... . ... .. .. ....... . ..... .. , . . .. .... . ... 215
By-Laws, Committee on . . ... ..... .... ... .... ... . ....... . .. ....... 39
Meetings on "Moon" Dates ..... ..... ..... ............ . .. 152
Relative to Amendments of . .... . . . . .... . . . ..... . ...... . .. 39
Report of Committee on ................................. 143
Should Conform to Uniform Code .... .................. . . 45

c
Card Index of Members, Relative to . ......................... 40, 102
Charters, Committee 011 .•.• • • • • .•.• • •• •• • • • •••••• ••.. • •••••• • 39, 144
Duplicate Issued . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
Report of Committee on .............. ... ....... . ......... 144

•
ii

INDEX.

INDEX.

City Hall, Oakland, Laying Corner-Stone of .................. : . . . . ~
Clandestine Mason, Petition from . . . .. .. .... ..... .. .. . ........... 152
Clandestine Masonry, Proposed Legislation Against. .... ... ... . 129, 144
Clovis Lodge No. 417, Duplicate Charter for ...... . . .... .. ...... .. 43
Coleman, Edward, Presentation of Portrait of .. . .. .. ......... .. .. 14
Letter from .... .... ... . ....... .. . .. .... .... . ..... . ....... 118
Committees, SpecialOn Address of Grand Master .......... .. ..... ... ...... 39, 122
On By-Laws . . . ... ... ... . ". ............ . . . . . .. . ... . ... .. . 39
On Charters .. .. ... . ..... ... ..... .... ....... .. .... .. , .39, 144
On Report of Grand Lecturer ............. ... . ..... . . . .... 55
On Report of Grand Secretary . .. ...... . .. . ...... . .. , 141, 211
Committees, StandingAmendments to ... ... . ..... ... . ........ ..... . . .... . . 141, 211
List of and Members . ... ... . ............ ... .......... ... 221
Congregational Church, Thanks to ........... . . . . .. ... . ...... . ... 222
Constitution, AnnotatedDistribution of .... ...... . ... .. .......................... 40
Grand Master's Remarks Concerning .. .. .............. .... 13
Constitution, Amendmc;nts to .... ..... 24, 41, 141. 211, 212, 213, 215, 240
Corner-Stones. Character of Buildings Grand Lodge May Lay ...... 154
May Not Be Laid on Sunday . . . ... ... .. .... ....... 154
Corner-Stones Laid .. .... . . ........ .. .... ..... . ... ..... ... . .. . . 8, 9
Corner-Stone of Oakland City Hall, Laying of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Correspondence, Report of Committee on ..... ........ Appendix a~d 39
Credentials, Report of Committee on .............. . . . .. . ........ 6, 191

D
Dccisfons, Relative to ... . . .. .. . ... . . ... ............. ...... 10, 148, 163
See also Jurisprudence Committee Report.
Dedication of Halls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 ·
Degrees Conferred by Request of Master, Effect of. . .... ... . ....... 153
Dimitted Mason, Right of Funeral .. .. ... .. . .. . . . ................ 149
Dimit, Right to Demand .... ...................... . ........... . .. 150
Disbursements for Year ..... ... ....... ... . . .. .. ... . ... . .......... 46
Dispensations Granted by Grand Master .. ... . .. .. . ..... . ... . 9, 44, 144
D ues Cannot Be Remitted in Advance . ... .. .... .. . ......... . .. .. . 152

E

'

Eel River Lodge No. 147, Removal of Place of Meeting ... ...... ... 43
E lection of Grand Lodge Officers ..... .. .. . .. ...... . ...... ... . . .. 218
Emhlems, Masonic, in National Cemeteries . . ..... ... .... ... . .. .. .. 19

iii

Endowment Committee of Masonic HomesGrand Master's Remarks on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
Provision for Expenses of ... . .......... . .......... . ...... 167
Report of . ..... ................. . . . .. . .......... . ... .... . 104
Entertainment, What Amount May Be U sed for ...... .. .. . . .... . . . . 155
Excused from Attendance ... ... .. ....... . .. ...... . ........ . . . . .. . 146
Expulsions Affirmed . . ......... ........ . ....... 124, 131, 134, 135, 139
Remanded . ... . . . . . ... ....... . .... . ... . ....... ..... . .... . 132
Extinct Lodges, List of ... . ... : .. ... . . . .. . .... . ........ .... . .... .. 254

F
Finance Committee (See Reports of Committees) .
Financial Report of Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
Of Grand Treasurer ...... .. .. . . .... .. . ........ . . ..... . 55, 59
Of Masonic Homes .... ... . .. . ... . ......... .... 57, 58, 84, 110
Flood Sufferers, Relief for .·.. ......... .... .. . . . ... . ........... ... . 43
Funds, Custodian of on Resignation of Treasurer . .. ........ . .... .. 155
Funds, To What Extent May Be Used for Entertainment. .. .... . . .. 155
Funeral Service, Revision of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

G
Gifts to Grand Lodge .... ................................ . . . . . ... 45
Grand Lecturer, Annual Report of .. . ... . ..... ... . ...... .. .... . . . . 113
Committee on Report of .. .. . .. . . .. ... ......... .... ... . .. 117
Report of Committee on ....... . . .. ....... ........ ... . .... 168
Grand Lodge, Assets of .. .... ....... ·: ..... . .... . ....... ..... .. .. 56
Officers Present . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
List of .. .... .. ........... . ....... . ......... . .. .. ... .. .4, 218
Officers Since Organization of .. ... ........... ......... ... 258
Special Communications of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Grand Lodges in United States, List of . ...... ....... . . . .... . . .... 262
Grand Master, Annual Address of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
Appendix to-Liquor Question .......... . ......... . ...... 28
Boards of Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Coleman, Edward, Portrait of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Committee on Address of ............. ........ ...... ...... 39
Cor?~r-Stones Laid ... .. .................. ... . ...... . . :8,
9
Dec1s10ns .. . . . .. ..... . ..... .. ......... . .......... .... . 10, 148
Dispensations Granted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Foreign Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Funeral Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
Hot Springs Sanitarium . . ...... ..... .......... ... ........ 20
International Peace . . .. . ....... . ......................... 20
Inspectors' Reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23

•
iv

INDEX.

Grand Master-Continued.
Island Lodges .......... . ........... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Lodges Constituted . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Lodges Formed .................. · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Los Angeles, Laudation of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Masonic Emblems in National Cemeteries . . .... .. .' ... .. .. 19
Necrology .............................. '. .......... .. ... . 16
'Masonic Homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
Netherlands, Request for Appropriation ................ 20, 167
Nevada, Invasion by of Jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
Jurisdiction of Lodges ............. . .......... 21, 158, 162, 163
Porto Rico, Recognition of Desired ....................... 20
Presentation of Silver Set to ............ .... ... .... . . .. . 220
Recommendations ................................... :25, 26
Report of Committee on Address of ..... . ................. 122
Request to Sit for Portrait ...... ·........................ 179
Special Communications Held by ................. .... ·· . . . 8
Special Dispensations Granted by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Tyler's Register . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !4
Visitations by ........... . . .. ....... ...... .... .. .... . . .. . 15
Grand Officers-Election and List of .......................... :4, 218
Grand Orator's Address ... .. ................ .. .... .... . .. . .. . .. ·.. 180
Grand Secretary, Annual Report of ............................. ·.. 40
Annotated Constitution, Publication of .... . ... .. . . .... . ... 40
Amendments to By-Laws Reported .... . .. .... . .. . ... . . . . . . 45
Card Index of Members .. .. .. . . . . .. .. . ............ .. . .40, 102
Charter, Duplicate, Issued .. . .............. : ........... , . . 43
Clovis Lodge No. 417, Duplicate Charter for .............. 43
Committee on Report of .......... .............. ·.. ; ........ 55
Disbursements for Year ... . ........ . ... ..... . .. ........ . . 46
Dis.pensations Issued .. ......... . .................. . ...... 44
Distribution of Annotated Constitution .. .. ...... .......... 40
Financial Statements .. . ... ... ... . ................... .46, 223
Life Members, Relative to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
List of Regular Lodges ................ ... . . ....... .. .. , . . 40
Lodges, Annual Reports of . ', . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Lodges Constituted 1911 ........ . . . .......... .... .. . ... .. 41
Lodges on Roll . . ........ . ... ... ..................... . ... 41
Members, Number of in Jurisdiction .. . . .... ....... . .... . . 41
New Lodges, Dispensations to Form .... . ........ . . .. .... . 41
Pay Roll .... . ........... . ............. . ................. 53
Reading Lodge No. 254, Return of Money by ....... . .. .. .. 43
Receipts for Year . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Relief for Flood Sufferers ... ............. . ........ . .. . .. 43
Report of Committee on .. . .... . ....... . . .. .... . . .. ... .. ., .122

INDEX.

v

(I rnnd Secretary-Continued.
Special Relief Fund in Hands of .. . .... . .................. 44
Trial Records Reported ... . ...... . .. . ....... . ........... 41
Warrants Drawn ........................................ 46
Grand Treasurer, Annual Report of .............................. 46
Cricvances (See Reports of Committees).

H
I lammonton Lodge, U. D., Relative to ... ... . . .... .... . .. . . 9, 143, 145
11 istory of Masonic Homes ...... . . . ............................. 107
(See also Masonic Homes.)

I
Index System for Visitors ..... . ... . . .. ... .......... ... . ..... .. . 14
Island Lodges· . . .. .. . ..... .. .. .. ... .. ... .... ..... . . . .. ... ... .. , . . 23
Initiation, Who May Object to .... .. ... . ... .... .. .. . .. ..... ..... 156
Inspectors, Reports of . . ... . ........ .... .. . ... ... .. . . . . . .. . .. . .' ... 23
Invasion of Jurisdiction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21

J

Jurisprudence (See Reports of Committees) .
Jurisdiction of Lodges ..... ... ........................ 21, 40, 163, 213
Jurisdiction, Waiver of .. ..... . ................... .. . . . . . 21, 158, 163

L
Lecture of Third Degree, Relative to .. .. . ...... .. .. . ... ... . ..... 26
Library Committee, Provision for . ... ... .. ... ... . . . ...... ........ 141
Life Member, Credit for Dues Paid in Advance ................... 149
List of Regular Lodges, Distribution of ............ ....... ......... 40
Liquors, Resolutions Forbidding' Use of. . .... .... . ... 24, 28, 41, 212, 215
Lccdges, Alphabetical List of ........... .. .... . .. . ..... .. . .. . .. , .. 263
Annual Reports, Relative to ...... .. . ..... . .... . . . .. .. ... . 44
Chartered at this Communication . .. ... .. . . .......... 144, 148
Constituted in 1911 .. ................................... . 41
Dispensaticns to Form New . .. . . . .. ...... ........ .. 9, 41, 144
Duplicate Charter for ..... . .. .... . ................ .. .... 43
List of ............. .. .................................... 242
List of Extinct ....... .. ... .... ..... . .... . .. . ... . : ....... 254
List of Regular . . . .. ...... . .... . . ... . ..... .. ... ... .. .. . . . 40
Location of . . ... ... ... . .. .. .... .. .. .... ....... . ......... 272
Opening Before Time Fixed in By-Laws . ..... .... .. ...... 158
Membership in 1912 .... .. .... . ... . .............. , . .. . .. . 41
Number of en Roll . ... .. . ... ... . .. ......... . . ........ ... • 41
Receipts from : ................................... 53, 54, 223
Les Angeles Board of Relief, Report of . . .. .. ... . .... .... . ... . . . . 65
Los An!!'eles, Laudation of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Thanks to Masons of .... . . . .. . . .... . .. .... .. . . . . ........ 220

•
vi

INDEX.

M
Ma1011ic Emblems in National Cemeteries . ..... . . . ... . ....... . . . . 19
Masonic Homes, Annual Report of Trustees . . ................ 79, 167
Appropriations Requested . ..... . . ... ..... . . . .. . . . . . .. 80, 82
Appropriations Granted ...... . .............. . ........ . .. . 166
Building Fund for .... . .. .. ........... . . .. . . . . ...... 135, 164
Christmas Donations to ............ .. .............. . ...... 92
Coleman Hospital .... . ............ . ................. . ... 109
Donations to 'Decoto Home .............. . ........ . ... 87, 90
To San Gabriel Home ... . . . . . . .. . ... ............ 90
Dormitories N ecded ....................... .. ............ 80
Endowment Committee of-Grand Master's Remarks ...... 10
Expenses of .. . ... . .. . ........ . ........ . .......... 167
Endowment Fund, Relative to ........... .. . . ......... . 58, 104
Entertainments Given ........... .. ......... : . . . . .... ; . . . . 88
Financial Reports of ............. . ...... .. ........... . ... 84
Grand Master's Remarks as to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
History of ..... . ..... .. . . ... . . .. . .. ... . . . ........... . . . . 107
Holiday Observances . . ... . .. . .. .. . . ....... . .......... 88, 89
Improvements Made ...... . .. . . . . . . . . .. ....... . ..... . ... 79
Number of Admissions ....... . .. .. . .. . ... .. . . . .... . .. . . . 11~
Of Deaths .. . . ...... . ... . . . . ... .......... . ...... 99
Of Residents . ... . . . .... . . .. . . . .. . ............ .'.. 96
Receipts and Disbursements ... . . . .. . . ...... . . .... .. . .. . . . 110
Repairs and Improvements ............ . .......... . ... :80, 88
Report of Grand Treasurer .. . ..... . ............... 57,..58, 59
Of Secretary . . ............ . .. . . ....... . ..... . ~ . . 83
Of Superintendent ..... . ..... . . . . . ..... . . ... . . . .. 87
Of Trustees .......... . . . ..... .. .... . ..... . . . . .. , 79
Residents at Decoto ........... . .... : .... . .. . ......... 87, 96
At San Gabriel .......... : ....... . .. . ............ 100
Sale of Certain Lands Recommended . .. '. . ............. 81, 167
Superintendent's Report .. . . .... .. . .... .' . . . .... ... . ..... . 87
Vineyard and Orchard . ...... . ... . .... .. .......... .. . . 80, 88
\\rater Supply . ...................................... . 80, 88
Masonic Temple Association, Purchase of Stock . .. . ........... 146, 179
Report of Directors ..... . . . ............. .. . . .... .. ..... . 118
Masonic Year Defined ........ . ... . ... ·......... . ... . .. . .. . . .. . .. . 155
Mcday, Henry H ., Appointed on Committee on Pay of Members .... 39
Membership in 1912 .............. . ...... . ........ . .. . ............ 41
Memorial Pages ..... . .............. . . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . ..... . .... . . 232
Memorial to Washington the Mason, Appropriation for ..... . ...... 214
" Moon" Dates, Meetings on . . ...... . ....... . ........ . ..... . . . .... 152

INDEX.

vu

N
Netherlands, ~rand Lodge of, Request for Appropriation . . ..... 20, 167
Nevadt ;nvas1on by of Jurisdiction . . .... . . . . . .. . ... ... . . . . .. 158 l63
New o ges Chartered ... . . ... ..... . ........... . . , ......... . .. .' .144

0
Oa~la1~d Board .o.f Relief, Report of ........ ... ...... .. .... . ...... 72
Obi.ect10n to Imt1ation, Who May ... . .... . ............ . ..... . .... 156
Off~cers of Grand Lodge, List of ............ , ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
Off1~ers, When May Be Installed .. ............. . ................ 150
Oration by James A. Foshay, Grand Orator ...................... 180
Owens, Henry M., Acknowledgment of Gift of ..... . . ...... . .. . ... 20

p
Patton, Chas. L., Thanks to . . . . .
13
Pay of Members (See Reports of '(:~~:r;i·t;~~~) .' . . .. . .. . . '· · · · · · · ·.

1

Pay Roll, ~i~l.

..................................................

Peac~, Interna~l~~~j

53

2~~

. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ..... : : : : .':::::::: : : : : : : .
Physical. Qualifications of Petitioners . . . .... . .. . . .. .. . .. .. . . . . ... 158
Porto Rico, Recognition of Desired . .. ........ . .. . ... . . .. .. . . . .. . 20
Praye.r a~ Openin~ of Grand Lodge ................. . ...... . .... : 7
Prost1tut1on, Rentmg Property for Purposes of ..... . .............. 157

R
Reading Lodge No. 254, Return of Money by ....... . . . .. . ..... . ... 43
Rece~pts and Disbursements, Homes . .... . ... . .. . ........ . . . .. . . . . 110
Rece~pts for Dues Must Bear Impress of Seal. ... . ... . ... .. ..... . .. 153
Rece1pt7 .of Grand Lodge for Year .. ..... . ..... . ..... . .. . ......... 53
Recogmt1on of Mason Raised in Violation of Law of
Jurisdiction . ....... . ............ . ...... . .... 158, 159, 162, 163
Re{.reshments, To What Extent Lodge Funds May Be Used for ... . 155
Re 1ef . . . . . ... . ..... . ..... . . .. . . .. . ..... . ......... . ... . ... . . . . .. lO 43
Relief, Liability of Lodge for Widow .... . .................... . . .'156
Regular and I,rregular Lodges, Gift of H. M. Owens .............. 20
Report of Masonic Temple Association .... . ........ . ... . .. . .. . . . 118
Of Masonic Homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Reports of Committees-Accounts ........ . .. . . . .. .. .......... . . . . 102
Address of Grand Master ........ . ....................... 122
By-Laws ... . ............................................ 143
Charters ..... . ........ . .. . ......... . . . .. . . . . . ... . .... .. . 144
Credentials . .... . . . . .. .... . ... . . . ...... . . .. .. .. . ... . ... . . 191

•
viii

INDEX.

Reports of Inspectors, Reference to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Of Secretaries of Lodges, Change of Time Proposed. . . . . . 25
Memorial to Washington .. ...... . .. . . . .......... ... . .. . . 214
Endowment of Masonic Homes .. ... . . ... .. ... ... . . . .. . . . 104
Finance-Boards of Relief . . . .. . .... .. ..... .... ... . ..... .. 165
. Contingent Expenses of Grand Lodge . ... . . . ..... 167
Endowment Committee, Expenses of .. . ... .. ... . .. 167
Funds of Grand Lodge, Conservation of .... . . . . . . .. 214
Grand Treasurer, Report of ..... . ... . .... . ... .. .. 55
Masonic Homes . . .... . ... . . ...... .. ..... . . ..... . 166
Masonic Temple Association .... . . ... . ..... ...... 179
Salaries of Grand Officers ... .......... . . . .... ... 166
Portrait of Grand 'Master ... . ... . .. . .. . . . ... ... .. 179
Grievances-General Report ..... . ... ... .. . .. ... ... ... .. .. 124
Trial in Honolulu Lodge N o. 409 ... ...... .. . . . .' ... 127
Trial in San Jose Lodge No. 10 . . .. ... . . .... ..... . : 129
Trial in Liberty Lodge No. 299 .... . ....... . . . . . ... 131
Trial in Sierra Madre Lodge No. 408 .. ....... .. .. : 132
Trial in Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235 ..... .. .... . 134
Trial in Golden Gate Lodge No. 30 . .. . .. ...... .... 135
Trial in Mission Lodge No. 169 . . . ..... ... ......... 136
Trial in Hermann Lodge No. 127 .. . .. .. . . . . . .. .... 139
Trial in Crockett Lodge No. 139 . . . .. .. .. . ......... 141
Trial in Burbank Lodge No. 406 ...... .... ... ...... 146
Index System . . . ... . .... .. .. ...... .. . ....... . .. ... .. . ... 182
Jurisprudence-By-Laws, Amendments to ... .. ..... . .... . 148
Affiliation Fee, Remission of Not Permitted . ... . . ; . 152
By-Laws, Meetings on "Moon" Dates . ........ .. : .152
Clandestine Masonry, Legislation as to ..... . . . 129, 144
Corner-Stones, Character of Buildings Grand Lodge
May Lay . .. .... . . .. ...... . . . ..... .. .... .. 154
Corner-Stones May Not Be Laid on Sunday ....... 154
Decisions of Grand Master ..... ... ........... 148, 163
Degrees Conferred by Request of Master and Not
of Lodge, Effect of ...... . . .. . ..... .... .' .. 153
Dimit, Right to Demand Is Absolute .. .. .. .... ... 150
Dispensations Granted by Grand Master .. . ..... . . 148
Dues Cannot Be Remitted in Advance .. .... . .... . . 152
Funds, Custodian of on Resignation of Treasurer .. 155
Funds, To What Extent May Be Used for Refreshment . . . . ...... . ... . .. . .... .... . . ..... .. . 155
Funeral of Dimitted Mason .... . ...... .. ..... .... 149
Initiation, Objection to, by Whom May Be Made . . 156

INDEX.

ix

Jurisprudence-Continued.
Jurisdiction, Invasion of . ............. .. ..... 158, 163
Of Lodges ...... ... . . . .... . . . ..... . . 163 213
.
Violation of . .. ... . .. ... .. .. 158, 159, 162'. 163
L tbrary, Committee on ....... .. ..... .. .... . ..... 211
Life Member, Credit for Dues Paid in Advance . ... 149
Lodge May Not Be Opened Before Time Fixed in
By-Laws ... . ... . .. ... . . . .. .. . .. .. ....... 158
Masonic Year Defined . ...... . .................... 155
Meetings on "Moon" Dates ..... . . . . .. ..... .. .... 152
Objection to Initiation, by Whom May Be Made . .. 156
Offense, Renting Property for Prostitution Is . .... . 157
Officers, When May Be Installed .......... . ... . . . . 150
Petition from One in Arrears for Dues . .. ... . .. ... 149
Petition from One Who Had Been Member of
Clandestine Lodge . ... . ...... . ... .. ... , .. 152
Physical Qualifications of Petitioners . ........ . . ... 158
Prostitution, Renting Property for, an Offense .... 157
Receipts for Dues Must Bear Impress of Seal .. . . . . 153
Recognition of Mason Raised in Violation of Law
of Jurisdiction ... ... .. .. ... 158, 159, 162, 163
Refreshments, To What Extent Lodge Funds May
Be Used for ..... . .. .. .. ... .. .. ........... 155
Relief, Liability of Lodge for Widow of Mason . .. . 156
Resolutions Relating to Use of Liquor .. .. . .. .... . . 212
Smoking in Lodge Room ... ...... .. .... .. . . .... . . 151
Sunday, Corner-Stones May Not Be Laid on . .... . 154
Treasurer of Lodge, Tenure of Office ...... , ...... 155
Trial of Member of Another Jurisdiction .... ... . .. 150
Pay of Members _. ... .. ....... .. .. . ....... .. ... .. .. . .... . . 215
Report of. Grand Lecturer ..... ... ........ , .... . '. ..... .. . . 168
Report of Grand Secretary .... . ......... . ........ . ... .. .. 122
Returns .. . . .. .................. ........... .. ......... .. . 169
Resolutions-Building Fund for Homes . . .... . .. .. . .. ... .. ... . 135 164
Clandestine Masonry . ...................... , ... . ... . 129,' 144
Endowment Committee, Expenses of ... . . .. ... . . .. . .. . . .. 167
Enlargement of Decoto Home .. ..... .. .. .. . ..... . .. . ... .. 135
Funds of Grand Lodge, Conservation of. . ............. . . ... 214
Liquors, Relative to . .... . ... .. . . ....... . . . . . ... .. ...... .. 215
Masonic Temple Association .......... .. . . . ... . . .. .. . 146 179
Memorial to Washington ... .. .. . . . ... ... ... .. .. .. .. . . . .'.214
Thanks to :Masons of Los Angeles .... . ... .. ... . .... . ..... 218
Restorations ....... ...... .. . . .. ...... . .. ... ... . .. . . . 126 129 133 146
Representative Fund, Tax for .. . . . ...... . ........ . .... .'. ... '. ... .' .218
Returns of Lodges, Report of Committee on .. . ................. ·.. 169
Ritual Committee Recommended ..... . .. ................ . ... ... ... 26

•
x

INDEX.

s
Sacr~mento Board of Relief, Report of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
San Diego Boarc,I of Relief, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .. .. . . . . , 75
San Francisco Board of Relief, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
59
San Jose Board of Relief, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76
Sherman, Edwin A., Gift from . . . . .. ... .. ... .. .. . .. .. ... .. ... . ... .. 45
Smoking in Lodge Room .. . ... .. ....... . .. . .... . .. . . . ... . .. . . . . . 151
Standing Committees, List of ............. ... .. .. ..... .. .... . .. .. . 221
Suspensions Affirmed . .......... ... .. . . . .. .. .. . ... .. 124, 136, 141, 146
Suspensions Remanded .. ... . ........ . . . . . ... . . . . . .... .. ... .. . .. .. 127
Suspensions Reversed ..... . .... . . . .... . .... ... .... . .. ... . . ... . . . . 130

T
Tax for Representative Fund . . ......... . ..... , .... .. . . . .. ....... 218
Territorial Jurisdiction of Lodges . . . . ..... . .. . . .. . . .. ... ... ... .. . i63
Thanks to Masons of Los Angeles ... . . . .... .. .. . ... .. . . . .... ... . . 21~
To Congregational Church .. . .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. . ..... . .. . . . . m
Treasurer, Tenure of Office . ....... . . . ... .. .. .. . . ... ... ... ..... . 155
Trial Records (See Reports of Grievance Committee).
Trial of Member of Another Lodge, Procedure . .. .. . ... .. .. ... .. . . 150

u
Unfinished Business . . .......... .. ...... ... .. . . . ... . . . ... .. ... 215, 240

v
Visitations by Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1S·.
Visitors, Index System for . . .. . . .. , .. . ............ .. ........ .. ... .. 14
Committee on . . ...... . . . . . . . . .. .. .. . .. . .. . ....... . ... .. .. 221

w
Warrants Drawn Against Treasurer . ... . .. . . . ....... . ... . . .. ..... 46
Washington, Appropriation for Memorial to .............. .. .. . . . . 214
Weller, Dana R., Thanks to .. .... .. ........... .. .. .. .. ........ . . . 12

•

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5912 .

M.". w:. WiLLIAM P.FILMER .. . .. Grand Master .... San Francisco
I~.".

w:. JOHN D. MURPHEY ...... Dep. Gr. Master •. Bridgeport

!{.".

w:. BENJ. F. BLEDSOE ... .... .Sen. Gr. Warden . . San Bernarditw

!~.".

w:. ALBERT G. BURNETT . . ... Jun. Gr. Warden . . Santa Rosa

v:. w:. EDWARD CoLEMAN ...... .Grand Treasurer .. San Francisco
v:. w:. JoHN WHJCHER .... . ... .Grand Secretary . . San Luis Obispo
(P. 0. address, 412 Hewes Building, San Francisco)

v:. w:. THOMAS J. BAKER ...... .Grand Lecturer ... Sacramento
(P. 0. address, 412 Hewes Building, San Francisco)

V. ·. R .·. Enw1N A. SHERMAN ... . . Grand Chaplain . . . Oakland
W. ·. W. RHODES HERVEY . .. . Grand Orator . .... Los Angeles

w:. HARRY S. JOHNSON ..... . Ass't Gr. Sec'y . . .. San Francisco

w:. WiLLJAM KllTTNER ...... Grand Marshal. .. SanDiego
w:. JosHUA D. TucKER .... . . Gr. Stan'd Bearer.Honolulu
W. ·. LEO V. You NG WORTH ... . Gr. Sword Bearer. Los Angeles

w:. SAMUEL E. BURKE .... .Gr. Bible Bearer . . Los Angeles
W. ·.BEN LEVI ... .......... .. Sen. Gr. Deacon . . San Francisco
w.·. FRED B. Woon . . .... .. .. .Jun. Gr. Deacon . . San Francisco
w.·. ROLANDE. HARTLEY . . . . . S en. Gr. Steward .. San Francisco
w:. BENJ. B. TUTTLE ...... .Jun. Gr. Steward: .Davis
w:. THEODORE J. MILLIKEN . . .Gr. Pursuivant ... . Sacramento
w:. SAMUEL D. MAYER .. . ... Grand Organist ... San Francisco
w:. GEORGE P. ADA MS . ... .. .. Gra11d Tyler . . . . . . San Francisco

•

ROSTER
OF THE

SUBORDINATE LODGES
mm1rn THE ,JURISDICTION OF nm

Grand Lodge of California
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JULY 31, A. L. 5912
WITH OFFICERS FOR 5913.

CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 1.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Thursday in each month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall,
OFFICERS:

Edwin Curtis Young, Master,
Jesse Meigs Whited, Sen. Deacon,
207 Second Street.
Raimon Francis Conlisk, Jun. Deac.,
William Hasting Harrelson, Sen. W., Edgar Malcolm Cameron, Marshal,
Harry Lincoln Dewey, Jun. Warden, Thomas Rolph,_ Steward,
August Herrmann Muller, Treasurer, Duncan Angus McLeod, Steward,
Edward Peabody, Secretary,
Samuel David Mayer, Organist,
101 Post Street.
George Perrin Adams, Tyler.
Abbott, William Martin
Adair, Charles James
Adams, Charles Hitchcock
Adams, Edward Stonehill
Adams, George Perrin
Adams, Henry Willis
Adams, Wm. Rooney
Ahman, Amandus
Alderson, Harry Everett
Alexander, Archibald Moore
Alexander, William Stanley
Allen, Harry Beckwith
Allison, Edward Ralston
Ames, George Elias

MEMBERS:
Archer, Albert Sayres
Archer, James, Jr.
Ascroft, Henry, P. M.
Atwood, Joseph Conrad
Avery, William Henry
Babcock, John Pease
Backman, Gotthard Sigismund
Baker, Charles Henry
Baldwin, Frederick Albert
Bannister, Alfred
Barbier, Howard Frederic
Ba11meister, Bernhardt H errnann
Beanston, George Alexander
Beanston, Wallace Hall

•
4

Becker, Julius Henry
Becsey, Roland
Bengtson, John
Bennett, George Edward
Bennet, William Henry
Binning, Charles
Birdsall, Ernest Stratton
Birmingham, Mark
Black, Howard
Black, Orlow
Blake, Alfred Edward
Blakiston, Duncan George
Bliss, Walter Danforth
Blossom, Henry Eckford
Bocarde, George Uriah
Boggs, Angus Gordon
Bonner, Andrew
Boobar, James Guptill
Boole, Fred Warren
Bradbury, Alfred William
Bragg, Robert
Breuer, Henry Joseph
Brink, Charles Henry
Brittingham, Elisha Franklin
Brown, Albert yv ebster
Brown, Andrew .Washington
Brown, Charles Underwood
Brown, Herbert Flint
Brown, Joseph Anthony
Brown, Roland Gair
Brown, William Anderson
Buckbee, Samuel Griggs
Burden, Wilson
Burnet, Henry Melnott
Burns, Robert, Jr.·
Burnside, Frank
Busse, Frank Adolf
Cameron, Edgar Malcolm
Campbell, George French
Cannell, Samuel Bartley
Carles, Honvre Romolo
Carson, George Ryckman
Caswell, Marion F.
Caverly, LeRoy Eugene
Chadwick, George Charles

ROSTER
Chamberlin, William Daniel
Chapman, Albert Jules
Chaquette, Camille Adams.
Chazel, Frank August
Christenson, Edwin Axel
Clark, Edward Joseph
Clifton, Horace Bradford
Cline, Cecil Cephas
Cline, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Clough, Theodore Neilson
Cobb, William Lewis
Cochell, John Thomas
Coffee, Ernest Haquette
Cogswell, James Lafayette, P. M.
Cole, Percy John
Coles, Charles Petley
Colter, Arthur Newton
Combs, Jerome Bert
Comstock, John Felt Osgood
Conlisk, Charles William
Conlisk, Raimon Francis ·
Connick, Harris DeHaven
Coppage, John Clark
Corbus, Adam William
Corbus, John Parker
Cowell, John Leslie
Cox, Frank Van Ness
Coxhead, Almeric W. Sylvester
Craig, Homer Theodore
Crim, William Henry
Crocker, Henry Joseph
Crocker, William, P. M.
Cro.cker, William Henry
Crothers, George Edward
Crothers, Thomas Graham
Cummings, Walter Bailey
Cunningham, Arthur George
Cunningham, John Francis
Curti, Felipe Pena
Cushing, Frank Worthy, P . M.
Daggett, John Randolph
Dahler, Harry Guthorn
Dalton, Franklin
Dalton, Thomas Benton
Dam, Francis Herbert

ROSTER
I >n vis, Charles Frederick
Erlin, Frank William
ll11vis, Harold Edgeworth
Etting, William August
l>eConinck, Frank Camille
Everett, Oliver
l>eering, Thomas Patrick
Everett, Wallace Washburn
Degen, Walter
Ewart, David Fraser
Detrick, Henry Lyster
Farnsworth, Millard Allen
l>ewey, Daniel L.
Farley, Walter Hawthorne
Dewey, Harry Lincoln
Farquharson, David
l>ewey, William Pierce
Faulkner, Charles Alfred
l>iett erle, Benj. Garratt
Ferguson, Tilghman Howard
Dletterle, George, P. M.
Feusier, Clarence Louis
Fiege, Arthur Conrad
Dletterle, Howard Lee
Dietterle, Raymond Lloyd
Finck, Julius
Firth, Joseph Kirk
Dingwall, George Isabel
l>ixon, John
Fish, Edward Nye
Doble, William Ashton
Fisher, W. Charles Henry
Dobler, Charles
Flagg, William Henry
Dohrmann, William Charles
Fletcher, Thomas
Flood, Arthur Morris
I >orey, Gilbert .
Dorn, Diademus Socrates
Forbes, William Henry
Dougherty, Charles Medley, P. M.
Foster, Fred 'k Townsend
Dow, Wallace Hanscom
Foy, Charles William
Dowling, Thomas Henry
Frank, John
Downing, Paul Milton, P. M.
Franklin, Geo. Chas. Henry
Franklin, Max John
Drake, Frank Babbitt
Drake, Robert Morris
Fraser, Hugh
Duffie, Christopher Wilson
Fredericks, George
Fulcher, Charles Nelson
Duncanson, Dugald Henry
Dunker, John Adolph
Furbush, William Morey
Dunn, James
Gale, Frank Walter
~~arl, Sumner Fremont
Gantner, John Oscar
Easton, Daniel Elisha Foote, P. M. Gardner, Samuel James
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Easton, 'rhomas Chalmers, Jr.
Gawne, Walter Whitfield
.l<Jastwood, Joseph
Gehret; Frederick
F:ckart, William Roberts
Geilfuss, Carl
l~rldy, Richard A.
Gere, George Grant, P. M.
l•Mwards, Frederick Jay
Edwards, Thomas Miller
Gibson, James Spaulding
l~ffinger, John Henry
Gilbert, John Baptiste, Jr.
')<;isenmann, Philip Joseph
Gilbert, Louis Julius
F.itel, Edward Everett
Gillson, John
Elliott, Albert Gladstone
Givens, James David
l~lwert, Charles Philip
Glass, Louis, P. M.
l~ngemann, Hermann Louis
Gleason, George Ruggles
Erlin, George Edwin
.Glenn, Wilfred Garfield

5

•
6

ROSTER

Golcher, Henry Coughlin
Gould, Lewis Allen
Graff, Ulrich
Graham, Gerald Oakeley
Grau, Louis Henry
Green, Charles Ernest
Green, Robert Gustave
Greenhood, Hugo Oscar
Grier, Arthur Jay
Griffith, John Wesley
Grimes, Everett Mason
Grimes, Everett Tubbs
flaake, Henry Anton
Hagmaier, Charles
Hagmaier, Daniel Peter
Haight, Robert Fletcher
!Ia.ll, Norman Freeman
Hall, Robert
Halliday, George Webster
Halsey, Theodore Vail
Hamilton, Hiram Milton
Hammer, William Hollingsworth
Hand, William Mulford
Hanssen, Olaf Jor~en
Harrelson, William Hasting
Harrison, Alvin Benjamin
Harrison, Samuel Ingleby
Hart, Edward Henry, Jr.
Hartranft, William Grant
Haseltine, Charles Woodward
Hassler, William Charles, P. M.
Haven, Charles Dwight
Heald, Clarence Edward
Heald, Edward Payson
Hedstrom, Bernard
Helen, Richard
Helm, William James
Helman, Gilbert Wayne
Henderson, Thomas Louden
Henion, Asa
Henry, George Jackson, Jr.
Herrington, Charles Howell
Heuer, George Frederick
Heyer, William Christopher
Heywood, William Brewer

Hickei, Oscar Herbert
Hills, Ernest Herbert, P. M.
Hilton, Joseph Henry ,
Hinton, Arthur William
Hoffman, Henry Nathaniel
Hoffman, John
Hogan, Howard Whittelsey
Hoitt, Ralph Howland
Holt, Cyril Edward
Hood, George
Hopkins, Mathrw Leander
Hosmer, Harrie Bordley
Houghton, Robert Otis
Howard, Horace Pember
Howard, Horace Zerah
Howard, Joseph Louis
Howe, Louis Philippe
Hubbard, HenrY. Calvin
Huested, Orson Justus
Hufschmidt, George Frederick
Hunt, John Hosford
Hunt, Richard Hosford
Hunt, William Black
Hunter, Robert Aitchison
Itsell, Andrew Jackson
Jacoby, Julius Herman
James, Frank
Jeffers, Milo Sidney
Jenkins, Horace Greeley
Jenner, Charles Kirkham
J essup, John DeLamater
Johnson, Ernest Lincoln L.
Johnson, Mathias
Johnson, Roosevelt
Johnston, Charles Robert
Jones, Edward Kirkland
,Jones, Fred Richard
Kahles, Frank
Keech, Theodore David
Keech, Willis Howard
Keesling, Francis Valentine, P. M.
Keil, George Frederic
Kelso, John
Kemp, J'o hn Henry
E;errell, Albert George Daw

ROSTER
l{imble, Liston
King, Joseph Libbey
King, William Garfield
Kingsbury, George William
Kinne, Charles Mason
Kinsey, Charles Caswell
Kirk, Robert
Kirkpatrick, Thomas
Kittredge, Ralph Bell
Klein, John Edward
Kline, James Joseph
Knight, Edward Dexter
Knight, George Alexander
Knighton, Robert
Koenig, Frank
Koenig, Gustav William
Kohler, Henry
Kreeger, Charles Strouse
Kuehn, George Washington
Kuehn, Victor August
Lacey, Edgar Robinson
LaGrange, Millard Fillmore
Landers, John
Landgrebe, Robert George
Latham, Wm. Kenley
Lathrop, Charles L~onard
Lauffer, Charles
Lee, John, Jr.
Leinhardt, John
Libby, Warren Thompson
Likens, James William
Long, Seely Frederick
Low, Joseph Coolidge
Low, Thomas Griffin
Lowe, Leon Percival
Lyons, James Henry
Mackay, Walter Shirlaw
MacRorie, Daniel
Madden, Wilkes Cuyler
Magee, Joseph Francis
Malmgren, Niles Peter
Marshutz, Leon Charles
Martell, Harry Gaylord
Martin, James Christopher
Martin, Robert Samuel

Marvin, Frank William
Marvin, Harvey Arrington, P .. M.
Marvin, Harvey LeFevre
Marye, George Thomas
Matheson, Duncan
Mathews, George Sumner
Matthews, Arthur Wellingfou
Mayer, Samuel David
Maynard, James, Jr.
Maynard, Ralph Samuel
Mayo, Henry Browne
McCollister, William Morse
McCurdy, Daniel
McFarlane, Peter Dunn
McKay, James Finlay
McLaren, Donald
McLean, Neil A.
McLeod, Duncan Angus
McMillan, Robert, P. M.
McNaught, John
McWilliams, John Adam
Meigs, Anson Woodman
Merrill, John Francis
Mersing, George Julius Martin
Merton, Lewis Burrell
Milling, William
Mills, Frederick Clinton
Mills, William Lucas Bisset
Mitchell, John Samuel
Moore, Andrew
Moore, Charles Cadwell
Moore, Charles Parker
Moore, Robert S.
Moore, William Lewis
Moormann, Julius Christesen
Morehouse, George Wilbur
Morey, Ellwood Perry
Morrison, William Hamilton
Morton, Julius Wetzlar
Muller, Adolphe
Muller, August H errmann
Munch, Robert
Murdock, George Leonard
Murgatroyd, Ben
Murschel, Albert

7

•
8

ROSTER

Myers, John Edward
Nagel, Louis Mortimer
Neal, Charles Sanders
Nelson, Elmer Ellsworth
Nelson, James Brown
Netherland, Benjamin Franklin
Newell, William Harold, Jr.
Newlands, John Cassell
Newman, George Howard
Newton, George Francis
Nickerson, Frank William
Niggle, John George
Noble, Edward Bonneau
Norstrom, Lewis Charles
Noteware, Edward Washington
Olsen, William
Ormond, John Allyn
Ouer, Frederick Frank
Owens, Henry Morgan, P. M
Palmer, Brooks
Parker, Harvey Drury
Patton, Charles Lewis, P. G. M.
Payne, George Lingard
Peabody, Edward, P. M.
Peabody, Edward William, P. M.
Pendergast, James Albert
Perkins, Thomas Allen
Perrin, Howard Elmer
Peters, James Frank
Pfaeffie, Robert William
Phelps, Charles David
Phillips, William Rippard
Plevin, James Ralph
Plincz, John Karol
Plum, Charles Mortimer, P. M.
Plummer, Alvin
Porter, Abel Willard
Powers, Frank H.
Prien, Henry Fred John
Putnam, Victor Eugene
Queisser, Alexander
Ralph, Burlington K.
Ramsdell, Harry Vinton
Ramsdell, Leland Stanfortl
Rasmussen, Peter

Rasor, David Walter
Redding, Frederick Grant
Reid, James William
Reid, Merritt Jonathan
Reinegar, Earl Bradfield
Renner, George
Richardson, Ernest James
Richardson, George Horatio
Rickon, Frederic J. Henry, P. M.
Ridley, Arthur Ernest Brooke
Riess, John William
Robb, Frank
Robison, Ansel Cobb
Robison, Merritt David
Roes, John Edward Albert
Roller, Charles August
Rolls, John Percy
Rolph, Clarence Athol
Rolph, James, Jr.
Rolph, Joseph William
Rolph, Thomas
Ross, Donald
Rountree, Richard Henry
Rulofson, Alfred Currie
Runyon, Albert James
Russell, Alexander
Ryan, Michael
·Scheide, William Cornell
Schiegner, Frederick Nelson
Schlott, Ernest Frederick
Schmidt, Louis
Schmitz, John William
Schreiber, Harry William
Scott, Harry Sweet
Scott, Walter Amos, P. M.
Scovel, George Scofield
Scovel, James Dwight
Searle, James John
Scarles, Dennis
Searles, Hiram Rex
Sewall, Edward Cecil
Shannon, Guy Stuart
Sharp, Arthur Maxwell
Sim, Walter Berry
Simmons, Haydn Mozart

ROSTER
Sims, James Coker
Binn, John George
Black, Charles William
Slater, John Charles
Slocum, Clinton Dodge
f!mith, Charles Henry
Smith, Francis
t!mith, Frank
Smith, Harry Gariliner
Smith, James D.
Smith, Lester Baylies
t!mith, Selden Cornelius
Smith, William Hervey
Smith, William Jacob
Spiller, George Weldon
t!tadtfeld, William Benedict
Stallman, Charles Christian
Stange, Walter John
Starbird, Albion Wilson
Steers, Edward Everett
Stenerson, Hamilton Goodman
Stevens, William Emerson
Stock, Edward Richard
Stoutenburgh, Edgar Charles
Swantz, Joseph Florance
Swasey, Edgar Marshall
Swears, William Bernard
Swinerton, William Arthur
Sykes, James Bell
Taylor, Albert Miles
Taylor, Thonias Hardin
Thomas, Edward J.
Thomas, Ellis Shepherd
Thompson, Frederick William
Tisdale, Robert Francis
'r itchworth, Casper
Tolmie, Robert Currie
Tompkins, Minthorne Mortimer
Towne, Arthur Gowing
Townsend, George Elliot
Traphagen, William Arthur
Trowbridge, Chas. Christopher
Tucker, Albert Nion
Turner, Alfred Joseph
Umbsen, Henry Philip, P. M.

Unger, Adolph
Unger, Milton Edwin
Upham, Benjamin Prince
Upham, Isaac Oliver
Van Bergen, Henry
Vanderlip, Harry Franklin
Van Houten, Harry Wilfred
Van Luven, Hermon
Varian, Henry
Vaughan, Hiram G.
Vogel, Edward John
Von Staden, George
Von Tillow, Ward Wright
Von Voorhies, Ruel Williard
Wadsworth, Charles Curtiss
Walbey, Bertie Robert Cecil
Walker, Isaac Cushman
Walker, James Greig
Walker. Shirley Cyrus
Walsh, Vincent Sanders
Wapple, Albert Michael
Watters, James Arthur
Weeks, John Allard, Jr.
Weil, John ·Perez
Wells, George Prescott
Wentz, John Joseph
Wernse, Harry Walter
West, Robert Bachman
West, Thomas Christopher
Westerfeld, Otto Ferdinand
Wheelan, }'airfax Henry
White, Ralston Lovell
Whited, Jesse Meigs
Whitely, Henry Mallard
Whitney, John Blackett
Whittle, Henry
Wiborn, J. Auburn
Wilkie, Andrew
Wilkie, Francie Alexander
Wilkin9, James Malcolm
Will, Frederick Adolph
Willcox, Raymond Hawkins, P. M.
Williams, Harry Alston
Williams, William Robert
Williams, Winfield Scott

9

•
ROSTER

10

Willman, Alexander, P. M.
Wilson, William Archibald
Winants, Newell
Wirtner, John Jacob
Wisewell, Charles Arthur
Witham, Heber William
Wolters, Henry Joseph
Wright, Alvin Henri

Chandler, Charles Strother
Cornwall, Bruce

ROSTER

Wright, Charles William
Wright, Cyrus Smith
Yates, William Frederick
Young, Edwin Curtis
Young, George Herbert
Young, Shirley Trever
Youngberg, Charles John .
Zech, William Frank
WITHDRAWN:
Tindal, James Watson
Ve.nee, Ira Lincoln

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Spear, Arthur Whipple
Hafner, George William
Stanford, William Estell
Morrow, William Stuart
Wood, Louis Earl
EXPELLED:
Staley, Frank Newton
DIED:
Golcher, William James
Baum, David Andrew
Griffith, John Beruth
Bocarde, James Blain
Grimes, George Lyman
Brice, William
Hayward, Henry Martin
Hrittan, Nathaniel Jones
Hubbard, Thomas Jay
Culverwell, Richard Stephen
Johnson, George
Fonda, William Thomas
McConkey, Thomas Graham

..

WE.STERN STAR LODGE, No. 2.
Shasta, Shasta. County.
·stated Meetings, Saturday of or next precedin~ Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Ralph Ingram, Master, Keswick, Cal. Grand Alfred Schroter, Sen. Deacon~
Richard Bruce Ross, Sen. Warden, Alexander Patterson, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas William Nicholas, !. Ward., Adolph Bystle, Marshal,
Lloyd Lee Carter, Treasurer,
Willis Burton Forbes, Steward,
Briceland Cooper Blair, Secretary, Orrin Carson, Steward,
Shasta, Cal.
William Alex. Boswell, Tyler.
Abraham Lincoln Parson, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Auvcr, Robert Nelson
Marx, Frederick L.
llalch, John Adrian
Manning, Lemuel Sargent
IUalr, Briceland Cooper, P. M.
Minderman, John Herman
1i0Hyns1 John
Moulter, Frank Erastus
lfoawell, William Alex.
Moore, Forest
Uurns, Charles James
McDonald, Bernard
ltuacombe, William Henry
McLennan, Donald :b'raser
Uush, Franklin William
Mills, Edward James
"yatle, Adolph, P. M.
Murrish, Harry T.
I 'arson, Orrin
Newman, Michael Roush
l 11rter, Lloyd Lee
Nichols, Thomas William
1;01e, Willard Leonard
.Norton, Charles
t)ummins, Harle Orin
Nightwine, ·Martin Elver
1:ushing, Horatio Weska
Northcutt, Finley
Davidson, Harry
Obradovich., Samuel Milo
Davis, George Miller
Patterson, Alexander, P. M.
Denton, Frank
Parsons, Abraham Lincoln
~~aton, Elvis Newton
Rathbun, Ross Burton
l•'ailing, Otto Claude
Reagan, James
1''1ynn1 Francis
R.ecardo, John D.
Forbes, William Burton
Richardson, James Lee, P. M .
French, John Alexander
Riley, Robert Edwin
<Jibson, Charles Francis
Reel, Louis
Graham, Albert
Reinhaus, Gustave
Grant, Edgar McLean
Rosenberg, Samuel
Grimshaw, Frederick Clarence
Rosevear, Joseph James
IIart, Frederick Ernest
Ross, Richard Bruce
llightower, John Charles
Ross, Alfred Marshall
Hodgkin, William Moore
Rountree, Henry Searle
lloyle, John Elkanah
Satterlee, Frank Peck, P. M .
lloyle, Reuben
Schielke, James W.
HudBon, Harry Charles
Shuffelton, Hugh Hall
Hunt, Thatcher Rodney
Sweeny, Edward, P. M
Ingram, Re.lph
Seineke, Frank George
Jahde, William
Schroter, Grant Alfred, P. M.
,Johnson, Andrew
Sevenman, George William
J oses, Charles Frederick
Strode, George Crone
K<'rr, Francis Emmett
Strode, John Sale
Lamus, Nelson Edward, P. M.
Swanson, John August
Largan, William
Speak, William AbrahRm, P. M.
Leatch, Allen Mebius
Shaw, Joseph James
Limbaugh, Nathanial
Terry, John Jesse
Martin, William Stanley
Tease, Chester James

11

•
ROSTER

ROSTER

12

Travers, James Arthur
Tillman, August
Tucker, James Edward
Weigel, Clifford R.
Weil, Joseph, P. M.

Woocl, Beverly Walter
White, John Wesley
Weinstrom, John Oscar
Yelland, Edward
Young, Edward L.

-96

WITHDRAWN:
Davis, James A.

TEHAMA LODGE, No.. 3.
Sacramento, Sacramento Cowity.
Stated Meetings · first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Louis Reignhardt Plate, Master,
Charles Ernest Farrar, Chaplain,~
Sacramento.
Tolbert Thomas Bray, Sen. Deaco11,
Henry Harrison llkCain, Sm. Ward., Albert Greilich, Jun. Deacon,
Donald McClain, J11n. Warden,
Henry August Wm. Lingreen, Mar.,
vVilliam Ohmer Girardey, Treas., Edwin Delos Carpenter, Steward,
Theodore Jones Milliken, Secretary, Clifton Stimmel Hite, Steward,
Sacramento.
Robert Oscar Cravens, T:yler..
MEMBERS:
Bradley, Allan Cormack
Applegate, Thomas Jefferson
Bray, Tolbert Thomas
Arenz, Martin Philip
Briggs, Wallace Alvin
Arnold, John Henry
Brown, Charles Manning
Banvard, Louis Howell
Barrett, Isaac Thomae
Brown, Egbert Alfred, P. l\l.
Barton; Charles Thomae, P. M.
Brown, John Alexander, Jr.
Brown, Simeon
Barton, James Nichols, Jr.
Base, Edward Franklin
Burns, Charles Vietor
Campini, Faust Gotardo
Bath, William
Baughman, Wm. Elias John, P. M. Carlson, Charles Alfred
Beede, Jeremiah King
Carmichael, Daniel Webster
Bell, Robert Orren
Carpenter, Edwin Delos
Bergna, Petiir
Carpenter, Richard Julius, P. M.
Bidwell, Claude Hubert StephensonCaselli, Ansono
Chapman, George Warren
Birt, William Randolph
Church, William Smithers
Bittancourt, Thomas Maria, P. M.
Clarke, Joseph Marshall
Black, John Alexander
Clemons, William Strong
Blue, Myron Hooker
Copelin, Thomas Edward
Bolze, Edward Henry
Cravens, Robert Oscar, P . M.
Bond, John
Cuthbert, William Williams
Bowen, John Murray

ll11vies, Chester Edward
l>avis, William Buckley, P. M.
Davis, William Hewson, P. M.
Davisson, Downing Baugh
DeCoe, Culver Adam
Derman, George Lewis
Dorman, William Frederick
Diggs, Marshall
Dodge, John Harry
Donald, William A.
llrescher, Valentine
Drew, Warren Francis
Driver, Grant Simpson
Driver, Philip Sample, P. M.
Duncan, Lewis Marshall
Ehret, Louis David, P. M.
1'Jilers, Theodore George
~~migh, Clay Webster
gngstron, Carl Oscar
Ernst, Cuno August
}'arrar, Charles Ernest
Fetterly, George Isaiah
Fisch, Willard Fred
Fisher, Henry, Jr.
Poster, Chester William
Foye, William Robinson Smith
Frommelt, Hugo
.Futhey, James Allen
Geeslin, John William, P. M.
Geiger, John Henry
Geiger, Louis, P. M.
Gett, William Andrew
Girardey, William Ohmer, P. M.
Givens, Charles Stuart
Goss, Charles Richard
Greilich, Albert
Griggs, George Babel
Halley, Walter Fern
Harper, Horatio Thomas
Harvie, Harold Barr
Harvie, Robert Alfred
Haub, John
Hawk, Elbridge LaFayette, P. M.
Hawk, Owen Dowd
Hayden, John Burt

13

Hayden, John Henry
Haynes, Edward
Heck, John
Heilbron, Irving Louis
Heintzelman, Taylor Washington
Reisen, Harry
Herold, Rudolph Adam
Hiatt, Hiatt Tisdale
Hill, William
Hintze, Emil Frederick
Hite, Clifton Stimmel
Hooper, Harry Greenough
Hopkins, Stephen Irving
Hotchkiss, Frederick Spencer
Hughes, Eugene J.
Hunt, Clarence Miller
Hyman, Daniel
!kin, Arthur John
Jackman, Samuel Hason
Jackson, William Franklin
James, George Somerset
James, Joseph William
.Jamieson, John Alex.
Johnson, August Galmer
.Tones, William Asa
Kellum, Earl Junius
Kimbrough, Richard Oscar
King, Geo;ge Thomas
Knox, William Frederick
Lewis, Leonidas Lee
Lindgreen, Henry August W., P. M.
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman
Littlefield, Lewis Bunch
Looi{, Halleck Hart, P. M.
Love, Andrew Campbell
T.owry, Rolfe Leigh
Mallett, Reginald John
Martin, James Thurston, P. M.
Marzen, Joseph, P. M.
Massey, Horace Andrew, Jr.
McAnear, Samuel Francis
Mt'Clain, Donald
McClain, Henry Harrison
Mt'Cumsey, William Harrison
Mcindeor, John, P. M.

•
. ROSTER
McMaster, James Curtin
McNair, Robert Blacl{wood
Mellor, Clarence Elmer
Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Miller, Frank Case
Miller, Frank Fargo
Milliken, Theodore Jones, P. M.
Morgan, Albert Henry, Jr.
Morris, Isidor Frederick
Nathan, Myron Sol
Nathan, Solomon Gottlieb
Oakley, Paul
0 'Kelly, Thomas Jefferson
Olson, Peter Louis
Overmyer, Frank Elmer
Papa, John
Pearson, John Lewis
Philip, Robert
Phillips, Albert
Plate, Hepry William
Plate, Louis Reignhardt
Pomeroy, Campbell
Poorman, Samuel
Prentiss, Charles Frederic
Prittie, Frank Halford
Ralph, Cl1arles Southard
Renwick, George Arthur
Richert, Michael John
Richmond, Thomas Hugh
Riley, David Boland
Reuter, Carl Henry
Robertson, James
Robinson, Thomas
Roblin, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Schadt, Frederick William
. Scheunert, Carl Emil
Schwartz, Charles August
Schwartz, Clemens William
Schwartz, Edward Jacob ·
Schweitzer, Edward
Scott, Thomas James
Shaw, Alfred
Sheridan, Hiram Wilson

Silsbee, Norwood
Skelton, John
Sonne, Andrew Cllristian
Spurlock, Ernest
Steinman, Irving Leland
Stephens, Archel Rutherford
Stillman, Wilhelmus Mynderse
Stober, Frederick Conrad, P. M.
Stoll, Benjamin Franklin
Strobel, Carl August
Strader, Harvey Winton
Sturmer, Simon Charles
Sulsberg, William Frederick
'l'aylor, Arthur Bloom
Teeter, John Kenney
'l'hirkield, Frank Lytle, P. M.
'l'hompson, James Ellsworth, P. M.
Troxel, Clarence Marion
Tubbs, Henry Osmond
Tucker, Thaddeus Charles
Ulp, Alfred
Vermilya, Abram John, P. M ..
Vermilya, Abram John, Jr.
Waller, William John
Walther, William Rudolph
Warner, Norman Charles
Warren, .John Wesley, P. M.
Washburn, Waldo Abisha
Watts, Henry Adelbert
Weckerly, Martin
Weinreich, Charles Edward
Wermuth, Preston Elmer
Wertheimer, Bert L.
White, Stephen Arthur Douglas
Wight, Albert Harrison
Wilson, Thomas
Witbeck, Horace Marcus
Wood, Thomas
Woodward, George Allen
Wratten, James Edward
Wright, Henry Eugene
Wright, John Melvin
Wright, William James
-21 8

ROSTER

.15

WITHDRAWN.:
II Ille hrest, Lawrence Raymond
Whited, Jerry Hinchman
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chrisman, Elmer Judson
DIED:
Kincaid, Elbert Sevier

BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicia, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jacob H enry Kropp, Master,
Benjamin Evans Diggs, Chaplain,
Benicia, Cal.
Ha,ry Bodine Carr, Sen. Deacon,
!,uther Blake Cooper, Sen. Ward., Joseph Allen Royster, Jun. Deacon,
James Scott Stevens, Jun. Ward.,
Richard Aldrccht Schnetker, Mar:,
S'dney Frame, Treasurer,
Clarence Emanuel Myhre, Steward,
J ohn R. B. Chisholm, S ecretary,
Frederick Zensen, Steward,
Benicia, Cal.
Phillip Jacob Troutwine, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, John
Crooks, William Lowell
Anderson, Edmund Rudolph
Dalton, Allred, Jr.
Austin, Burr Dale
De Forest, John, P. M.
Bahler, August
Diggs, Benjamin Evans
Bahler, Godfrey A.
Emmons, Frank Fletcher
Booth, Edwin Lorema
Esperance, Blaise
Brown, Elmore William
Estey, Edwin, P. M .
Cambis, Emanuel
Estey, Harold .
Carr, Harry Bodine
Evans, Mark
Cereda, Dominico
Fairbank, William Smith
Chaddock, Orva Andrew
Fitzgerald, Frederic Gerald, P. M.
Chambers, Edwin Thomas
Fox, William
Chisholm, Angus A.
Fraga, Manuel
Chisholm, John R. Brown, P. M.
Frame, Sidney .
Christensen, Thomas
Fraser, John Robert, P. :M.
Clancy, Ray Lawrence
Frasier, John, P. M.
Clayworth, Joseph Charles, P .. M.
Freeman, Otis Kimball, P. M.
Coleman, Warden Victor
Friedman, Abraham Lincoln
Coleman, William Joel
Friedman, Nathaniel William
Cooper, Lawrence William
Giubbini, Joseph Severino
Cooper, Luther Blake
Gnauck, Gustav

•

Gunnard, Frank
Hart, David Marion
Huhs, John Julius
Jefford, Frank Herbert
Johnston, Simon
Johnston, Simon Andrew
Jones, Ralph
Jurgensen, Charles P.
Kenney, Frederick Channing
Kerr, Rasmus Hansen, P. M.
Kin·g , William
Krenkel, Albert George
Kropp, Jacob Henry
Kullman, Jacob
Lea, Willis Marshall
Macdonald, James Edward
MacGregor, Rob Roy
Marmion, William
Martin, James Israel
Martinsen, Neils
·McKay, Alexander
McKay, George Arthur
McKay, Thomae, P . M.
McKay, Thomas Sumner
McKay, William Daniel
McKenna, John Paul
McKenzie, James Buchanan .
Merrick, John Newton
Myhre, Clarence Emanuel
Nathan, Paul Gaston
Neilsen, Harry Russell
Noble, William E.
Olsen, Oscar H.
0 'Neill, Martin William
Petersen, Otto Charles
.Rafl'etto, Luigi
Reid, J ames
Roberts, William
Crane, Clarence B.

ROSTER

ROSTER

16

Rogers, Edward Francis
Royster, Joseph Allen
Rueger, Godfrey
Rummelsburg, Adolph
Salz, Ansley Kullman, P. M.
Salz, Moses Kullman
Sanborn, Joseph Lewis
Schmidt, Max Emil Paul
Schmidt, William John
Schneider, George
Schnetker, Richard Albrecht
Seaman, Alexander Welby
Shattuck, Frank Bachelder
Sherburne, John Shepard
Simmons, Ralph Walden
Singler, Otto Herman
Smith, .Tames Ambrose
Smith, Paul Martin
South, George Whitside
Stevens, James Scott
Stewart, Charles
Trautz, Otto George, P. M.
Troutwine, Phillip Jacob
·
Wagner, John Ellis
Walker, Revello Monroe
Walker, Walter Frederick
Watson, Daniel Mitchell, P. M.
Weymouth, Herbert Newtol!
White, Henry Kirk
White, Herbert Cornelius
Wilkie, John Bll!es
Will, Andrew Jackson
Wilson, Carrol Leslie
Wilson, Donald Wesley
Wilson, Wesley Thomas
Wimble, Charles Wilson
Witte, Henry
Zensen, Frederick
- 118

WITHDRAWN:
Furbush, George Ernest
DIED:
Filer, Samuel John

17

TUOLUMNE LODGE, No. 8.
Sonora, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
c:corge T. Black, Master,
Charles Henry Burden, Chaplain,
Jamestown.
Thomas Lincoln Richard, Sen. Deac.,
Eric John Segerstrom, Sen. Warden, Rowan Hardin, Jun. Deacon,
John Henrickson, Jun. Warden,
Richard Inch, Marshal,
William Edwin Burden, Treasurer, Gustaf Johnson, Steward,
William Fieldan King, Secretary,
Frank Erville Wetherbee, Steward,
Box 135, Sonora.
Abraham Barlow, Tyler.
Allgewahr, George
Allgewahr, Louis, Jr.
Anthony, David Ritchard
Anthony, Edward Reese
Armstrong, Elmer Holland
Baker, Harry Walcott
Ball, Cary
Ball, Farlon Ford
Barlow, Abraham
Barton, Eugene Hamilton
Belli, Caesar Arthur
Benas, Solomon, P. M.
Billings, Samuel Moses
Bishop, Joseph Henry
Black, George T.
Black, William John
Blocklinger, Emil Arthur
Boesch, Louis
Bogio, Frederick
Booker, William Elijah
Bouchard, E. J.
Bowers, Frederick Urban
Brunson, Horace Wilber
Burden, Charles Henry
Burden, William Edwin
Callihan, William
Callow, Charles Henry
Carmichael, Niel
Case, Le Roy
2

MEMBERS:
Chatfield, Walter
Chute, Richard
Clayton, Charles Hiram
Clayton, George Louie
Coffill, Harry James
Collier; Mentor Carl
Cramer, Herman, Jr.
Dalles, J. R.
Dambacher, Joseph C.
Davenport, Frank Early
Dewitt, Wilmar
Dixon, John Nathan
Donald, Ralph Selick
Eastman, William White
Elliott, Joseph E.
Elliott, Lewis Horatio
Eslick, Charle'e
Fiske, Fred A.
~etcher 1 Albert C
Fulcher, Raymond E.
Gallut, Victor
Godfrey, Charles Homens
Goodwin, Frank Halsey
Gould, Elisha Tolman, P. M.
Greenlaw, Lester Alonzo
Guerena, Louis Alexander
Hale, George Webb
Hampton, Crittenden, P. M
Hardin, Rowan

•
ROSTER

18

Hender, Samuel John
Hender, Thomas Arthur Stiles
Henriksen, James
Hicken, Ernest Edward
Hood, William Lyman, P. M.
Hornung, John Henry
Hoskins, .Joseph
Inch, Richard, P. M.
Inch, William
..Jess, Willaril Noble
.Johnso11, Gustaf
.Johnson, John Frank
.Jones, Charles Vence
.Jones, Ray E:verett
King, William Tieldan
Krause, William
Knowles, June H
Knmlsen, Nils Ladefoged, P. M.
Lampson, Orlando
Lampson, Robert E . L.
Langford, George Henry
Lawson, Jesse Nils
Leon. Samuel
Lewellyn, William
Littlefield, John Franklin
J,ong, William Giles, P. M.
Macpherson, John
Mansfield, Josiah Weller
Martin, William Kenneth
McKenzie, Alex. Stewart
Morgan, George Phillip
Morrice, George
Morrow, George Washington
Mouron, Otto .Tnlins, P. M.
Mitchell, Frederick William
Nash, .John Fronk
Newell, William Hamilton
Nicol, George Woodburn, P . M.
Ogden, Byron Augustus
Parker, George 0.
Patterson, George John Hurd

Paulsen, Hans Christian
Pownall, Joseph Benjamin
Preston, Howard Alvin
Preston, Charles W.
Richards, Thomas Lincoln
Rosaco, Leo Francis
Rundell, Robert Edward, P. M ..
Robinson, Frank Abbott
Robinson, William Lynn
Sartoris, Abraham
Sayre, DeZeng Lnnrenr.e
Scanlan, James Louis
Scott, Archibald
Segerstrom, Chas. Homer, P. M .
Segerstrom, Eric .John
Shafer, Charles Edward, P. M.
Sharrock, Everett, P. M
Shaw, George H.
Shine, John Henry
Smullen, ,Joseph Milton
Soulsby, Benjamin
Stanley, Horace Martin
Steimetz, David Henry
Sullivan, George Thomas
Street, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Thesse, Frank George
Thow, George
'l'omkin, John Lee
'l'rittenhach, Albert
•roms, Richard
Vial, John
Walsh, Harry William
Weimer, William
Wellington, Henry
Wells, Thomas Washington
West, John Henry
Wetherbe11, Frank Erville
Wi~e, John Friedman
Witney, .Tohn Lorin
Wonderly, John Martin
West, Thomas Otho
-140

WITHDRAWN:
Street, Horace Marvin

ROS'fER
SUSPENDED FOR NON PAYMENT OF DUES:
McLaren, Duncan Allen

I•: llis, Eugene
I\ irkwood, J ames

DIED:
Nickerson, Ralph Byron
Simmons, James Thomas

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. g.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

\\!ill Stuart Wilson, Master,
Frank Waldo Plas~ett, Sen. D eac.,
Marysville, Cal.
Elnathan Searles Wright, Jun. W.,
Frank Wilford Poole, Sen. Ward., Oscar Leonidas Meek, Marshal,
'\rthur Walter Gluckman, Jun. W., Alfred Herman Alderman, Steward,
<:corge Roberts Eckart, Treasurer, Chester Albert Smith, Steward,
l.\,'wis Boyd Wilcoxon, Secretary,
Elbridge P orter Andross, Tyler.
Marysville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Charles Francis, P. M.
Cohn, Isaac Geballe
Al<lerman, Alfred Herbert
Collier, George
Conley, Robert Milton
Andross, Albert Knight
A ndross, Elbridge Porter
Cooley, Allen
Armstrong, Claude Herbert
Cooley, Edward Sedgwi<'k
Baker, Robert .Tames
Coombs, Joseph Elden
l!nrnes, Cyrus Anson
Crane, Francis Benjamin
Heam, Ward Fred
Crook, Leslie Blaine
Belcher, Edward Augu9t us
Crook, Fred Austin
Berry, James McConnell
Day, Frederick ITl!nry
Bingham, Atkins Clark, P. M.
Day, Richard
Bolton, George F.
Davenport, Francis William
Bossen, Emile Fred
Davenport, William Battles, p , M.
Deitz, G'!orge Washington
Bowen, Chester LeRoy
Brooks, Charles Samuel, Jr.
Dougall, Thomas
Dyer, Charles W.
Bruce, Eugene Harrison
Brul, Bernard John
Eckart, George Roberts
Burroughs, William Curt
Eckart, Marcus Alger
Buttelman, Frederick William, P. M.Ede!er, James Otto
Chase, Arthur Willis
Edeler, Otto James
Chase, Charles Frederic, P. M.
Elder, George Washington
Chase, Thomas
Ellis, William Turner

•
20

ROSTER

Evans, Isaac Curtis
Fetrow, D11.vid Ernest
Flentge, Max
Forbes, Edwin Alexander
Fordham, Free Delbert
Ganion, Joseph Ben
Goodpastor, Edwin James, P.' M.
Hampton, Charles Cecil
Hedges, Chester Arthur, P. M.
Heilmann, Edward
Heilmann, Paul
Heilmann, Paul, Jr.
Higgins, John Henry
Himes, Charles Edward
Hodgkins, Will Mayo
Hoffert, Henry Harrison
Hosking, Frank
Howell, John Hamilton
. Hunter, William
Irwin, Alexander Cameron, P. M.
Kelly, William Frederick
Keiser, Christian Christopher
Kosby, Augustus Emil
Krause, Frederick Francis
Lane, Frank
Learmont, William Clarence
Lewek, Albert Jacob
Lewek, Solomon, P. M.
Lott, Henry Charles, P. M.
MacLellan, John George, P. M.
Martin, Allen Birch
Maseman, Charles Louis
Mayer, Christopher
Maynard, James Monroe
Mccready, Edward John, P. M.
Meek, Oscar Leonidas
Meek, William Mayo
Metteer, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Mitchell, Henry Keller
Myer, Herbert John
Newmyer, Willis Goss
Nyrop, David Frank
Parker, Theodore Roosevelt

Parks, Louis Herbert, P. M.
Peacock, William Flint, P. M.
Peake, Harry Garfield
Pine, George Washington
Poole, Frank Wilford
Pozzi, Romeo
Price, Charles John
Roberts, Frederic
Roche, George E<lward
Rous, Edwin Frederick
Schneider, Abraham Nathan
Schneider, David Nathan
Schneider, Gustave
Schneider, Seymour Nathan
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Seawell, Floyd Selden
Sharp, Daniel Lawrence
Sieber, Henry Frederick, P. M.
Simons, Robert Ray
Smith, Chester Albert
Stall, Frank William
Stall, George Edward
Stanwood, Edward Babson
Stanwood, Richard Goss
Stephenson, Charles Edward
Atrain, William J.
Strock, Albert Benj.
Swift, Clarence Eugene
'l'apley, Joseph Franklin
Toland, John
Trow, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Waste, Jesse Jackson
Weber, Henry Victor
Weinlander, Edward
Weis, Samuel Julius
Wells, Roff Hague
Wenzell, Harry William
White, Espie Alexander
White, John Comyn
Wilcoxon, Lewis Boyd, P. M.
Wilson, Will Stuart
Wright, Elnathan Searles
Wuth, Charles Christian
-130

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:
Gatgens, John Frederick Ferdinand
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Russell, Wilmer Worthington
Cl reely, J. Wellington

DIED:
Hollwd, George
MacLellan, Harvey Everett

SAN JOSE LODGE, No. 10.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Sanford Lord Bacon, Master,
Francis Edwin Smith, Chaplain,
74 South First Street, San Jose. Allan Oscar Matthew, Sm. Deacon,
Cornell Harry Wheeler, Sen. Ward., Albert Edan Sandbo, Jun. Deacon,
h ed Doerr, Jun. ~ardm,
Frank George King, Marshal,
J ohn Henry McGehee, Treasurer,
George Barron Stevens, Steward,
Milton Amos Boulware, S ecretary, George Henry McDonald, Steward,
P. 0. Box 776, San Jose.
Mervin H. Conklin, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackley, Gilbert Thomas
Ballou, John Quincy Adams
Addecott, James Edwin
Bane, John L.
Adelson, Julius
Barber, Lawrence Evans
Alexander, Howard Augustus, P. M. Barker, Ambrose Branch
Alexander, William Gay
Barker, George Leon
Anderson, John Zuinguilus
Barker, Henry Clay
Anderson, Martin Gustave
Barnes, James
And1orson, Philip
Barnum, John Starr
Appleton, Morris .
Barstow, Wm. Addison
Asay, Jacob Lambert, P. M.
Barthel, Franklin Keifer
Ayer, Frank Milton
Bath, Edwl'rd Robert
Ayer, Samuel Elden
Bay, Lewis Irwin
Bacon, Albert Sylvester
Bean, George Albert
Bacon, Sanford Lord
Bean, Le Roy
Bailey, Charles Everett
Beasley, William Arthur
Bailey, Elton Ream, P. M.
Beattie, Andrew
Bailey, Willard Chapin
Benson, Frank Henry
Baker, Lewis Elwin
Bennett, Elmo Harrison
Baker, Morgan Dillon
Bernhardt, William Jacob
Ball, Marion Francis
Berrar, Henry

21

..
22

ROSTER

Bevens, Edgar Alphonso
Biggs, Marshall Alexander
Blair, J·ames Clark
Blois, James Byron
Boes, Frederick Franz
Boes, Jacob
Borodori, Martin James
Bothwell, Charles Allen
Boulware, Milton Amos
Rrabetz, William Frank
Brackett, Jethro Nat. Bruce
Braden, William Durand
Bray, George
Bray, Lester Franklin
Bristol, Harlan Page
Bromley, Robert Van Vliet
Brosius, August Fred
Buffo, Anthony
Burnight, Thomas Starr
Cann, Arthur
Cash, Albert B.
Castle, Arthur Francis
Castle, Neville Hart
Castle, Ray Nelson
Chapman, Frank Raymond
Chappell, William
Chartier, Daniel Arthur
·Chase, Elmer Ellsworth
Chase, James Albert
Cheveriel, Frederick
Chrisman, William Henry
Claflin, Morris Fairfax
Clark, Charles James
Clayton, Willis Sherman
Clifton, Henry
Clover, John Henwood
Cocking, John
Conant, Ernest Woodbury, P. M.
Conklin, Marvin H.
Costa, Charles John
Costa, Charles Roy
Costello, .Edward Eastas
Coutant, Charles Gale
Costain, Thomas
Crider, Jacob Wright, P. M .

..

Christ, Squire Belden
Crossman, Walter Everett
Crothers, Charles Fair
Crow, Richan!.
Davis, Thomas Haines
Davy, John William
Dement, Clarence Hugh
Dennis, John Soulsby
De\•ine, Everett Bee
Dewey, Frank William
Dill, Leslie Hudson
Dixon, J!'rank Alexander
Doerr, Frederick
Donahoo, Frank Leslie
Donlan, William
Donovan, William Gould
Down, Robert Hodge
Dunham, George
Dynes, William Henry
Ebentrant, Irvan Stephen
Eddy, Alonzo Hencilly
Ellis, John
Essery, Maurice Robert William
gvans, Reece Thompson
Everett, Ernest Royal
Fairchild, John Alarie
Farrington, Melvin J.
Farrington, Sidney Delbert
Fassett,• Thomas A. K.
Fee, George Washington
Ficklin, John Thomas
Field, Zibeon Orison
Field, Chapin Hall
Fikes, Henry J.
Fillmore, Frederick Burnett
Fisher, Henry Beach
Foss, Edward Elmer
Franzen, Andrew
Fraser, John Ross
Fraser, Paul
Fraser, William Flemming
French, William Henry
Fretwell, Selos Ashley
Fry, Hawley Ray
Fuller, William Belden

ROSTER
Gardner, Robert Coleman
Garnot, Heilaire Louis
Gassett, John Eames
Geach, John Sowden
Gerichs, John Christean
Gladewitz, Christean David
Goldsmith, Berthold
Gondring, John Matthew
Gordon, Lee Burr
Uraebe, Charles Edward
Granger, Frank Sylvester
Grant, Alex. Drummond
Grant, John Hamilton
Gratz, John William
Graves, Joseph Hiram
Gray, Simon Johnstone
Greer, John Lawrence
Orunwell, Horace
Gummer, Everett Edwarcl
Hablutzel, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hagerdon, Charles Luther
Hamlin, Edwin Claire
Hapgood, Alfred Adam
Harbeck, Theo. Martin William
Hardy, Thomas West
Harker, Charles Sumner
Harlan, Orren Arthur
Harms, Henry August
Harms, Maynard Heim
Haskins, Wm. Howard
Hawley, William George
Hazard, Emil J.
Heid, Louis Gotleib
Henry, James Harrison
Hensill, John Samuel
Henwood, Joseph Richard
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson
Hess, Alex. Wesley
Hipburn, Charles Thomas
Heple, Theo. Felix
Herrmann, Frank Adolph
Herringer, Franklin Peter
Hestwood, James Osman
Hewett, James
Hill, Henrie Granville

Hixson, Morris Claton
Hocken, Robert William
Holston, Wm. Amasa
Howell, Henry John
Hubback, Charles Edward
Huff, William Jackson
Hunt, Harold Gelbert
Hunt, John West
Hyland, Michael Henry
Ickes, Daniel W.
Jackson, George Washington•
James, Charles Hodge
James, William Henry
January, William Alexander, :P. M ..
Jarman, Albert Hutchinson, P. M ..
.Tarman, John Plaskett, P. M
J enkines, William Keast er
Johnston, Walter Samuel
Johnstone, Frederick Eugene
Jones, Albert Lincoln
Jones, Cyrus
.Tones, William
Kalfus, Joseph Leland
Kapp, Michael William
Kautlehner, Christian George P;.
Keesling, James Clarence
Kelley, Frank Bennett
Kelly, Claude
Kelly, Henry Clay
Kennedy, George Augustus
Key, John Powel
King, Ernest Samuel
King, Frank Oiorza, P. M.
Klein, Emile
Koch, Adolph Jacob
Koch, George Adolph
Kooser, Roley Sherman·
Krause, William Henry
Langkamp, Charles Albert
Lanyon, Byron
Lathwesen, Louis John
LeBreck, Frank
Leach, William
Lean, William Carvasso
Ledyard, Benjamin {Jory

23

•
24

ROSTER

Ledyard, Henry Horatio
Leigh, Hugh Alexander
Lemmon, John Le Grand
Leslie, Howard
Liebert, Julius Michael
Lifsett, Archie
Levingston, William
Lombardo, Angela
Lowe, Ralph, P. M .
Lowe, Sam Butterworth
Lowe, Sherburne Whiteman
Lundin, Theodore Charles
Macomber, John Harrison
Mann, Charles William
Martinsen, Martinez Bert
Marvin, Frank Freeman
.Martin, Oscar Tolley
.Masson, Paul
Mathew, Allan Oscar
Mathews, Charles T.
May, George Baldazar
.Maynard, Charles Cyrus
McCloskey, Thomas
McDonald, Archibald
McDonald, George Henry
McFaul, Charles Lincoln
McGehee, John Henry, P. M.
.McGlan:flin, George Vails
McKenzie, George Wilson
.McKiernan, Frank Charles Henry
McReynolds, William Isaac
McQuarrie, Gordon
Metcalf, Charles Otis
Meyer, Frederick Henry
Miller, Samuel Borlund
Moan, Allen James
.Moltzen, Hermann
Montgomery, Edwin C.
Moore, Benjamin Sidney
Moore, Samuel Grant
Muirson, George Albert
Mu!e, Cologero
Nelson, John
Nevell, Paul Theophilus
Newman, Isador

Nickerson, Franklin Lewis
Ogden, Lewis Ira
Olinder, Albert Manfred
Olsen, Per~y Emil
Orvis, William Shakespear
Ownby, Thomas Powell
Page, George William
Palmer, Jacob Ellsworth
Parks, Samuel Daniel
Parton, Floyd Arthur
Pascoe, John' Charles
Pauw, Cornelius Jacobus
Pawley; Albert Leslie
Pearse, Warren Milton
Pe!lier, Entrope Joseph L.
Pelton, Stephen Garfield
Pennoyer, Chester Hicks
Percy, Calvin Wheeler
Perkins, Christopher Freder
Pfau, Louis John
Phillips, William Francis
Pierce, Wilbert Elmer
Plummer, Jabez Chester
Polk, Emery Smith
Poore, James Robert
Powell, George Ernesi
Pozzo, Francisco
Proctor, Calderon Weld
Radford, Joseph D.
Rainey, Joseph Wesley
Ramage, Andrew
Reade, Charles Dwight
Rhoads, LewiA William
Rice, Charles Warren
Rich, Samuel Herman
Richards, Albert
Richards, Benjamin Franklin
Richardson, Channing Alonzo
Richmond, Edmund Nutting
Richmond, George
Richmond, George Andrew
Riggs, Wm. Edward
Rinaldo, David
Roberts, Albert Forrest
Rodgers, George

ROSTER
Rowley, Albanus Bellger
Rubell, Wm. Henry
ltuble, Robert Simon
Rucker, Samuel Newton
Russ, Arthur Charles
Russell, William, P. M.
8nge, Lewis Alvin
Snndbo, Albert Edan
Sanderson, Edward Wavell
!:!aph, Louis Victor, P. M.
Schemmel, Frank Pfister
!:!chloegel, Frederick Edw 'd Aug.
Schultz, Charles Hieronymus
Schuman, Henry
!:!ears, Bernard Giesea
Sexton, William
Sheaff, Charles Raymond
Rhearer, Paul Morphy
Shoup, Edward Glendening
Simpson, William
Singletary, Emory Gregsby
Singletory, George Curtis
Skinner, Edwin Hume
Smith, Francis Edwin
Smith, Harrison Pryor
Spencer, Hume Alexander
Spencer, Hume Francis
Squire, Paul Edwin
Stelling, William Christian
Sterne, Harry Raymond
Stevens, George Barron
Stevens, Thomas Jedsin
Stock, Edwin Alfred
Styche, Arthur John
Summers, Robert Onell
Sutton, Alfred Martin
Sweigert, George Adam
Swickard, James Blaine
Taylor, William Grey
Taylor, William Stewart
Thompson, Roy Burton
'fhompson, Samuel

25

Thompson, Samuel Halleck
Thompson, William Wallace
Thorne, Charles Davenport
Tomlinson, Alfred
Topham, Edward
Topham, Frank Henry
Topham, William
'f ownsend, Arthur Chisholm
Tripp, Clifton Jay
Tripp, Herbert Russell
Trone, Isaac
Tuthill, Joseph Brown T.
Tuttle, Hiram Daniel
Valpey, Calvin
Van Tyne, James Albert
Wagener, Samuel Hopkins
Wait, Orlin
Wasson, William McLeod
Watson, Thomas Grey, P. M.
Weber, Frank Ferguson
Welles, George Ed. Benton
Wheeler, Cornell Harry
Whipple, Frank Edwin
Whisler, Carl Wm.
Wight, David
Wilcox, Wilbur Justus, P. M.
Willi, John
Williams, Amos Ottis
Williams, Edwin Henry
Williams, Paul Sebley, P. M.
Wilson, Chester Sparks
Wilson, Harry Alfred
Winans, Claude 0.
Winkless, Lamartine William
Winninger, Joseph Urban
Wise, Franklin Ball
Wolden, Russell Lewis
Woods, Robert Clay ,
Wooster, Clarence Marshall
Wretman, Niles Emil
Wright, Eli
Wright, Frank Talbot
-395

•
ROSTER

ROSTER

26

Cole, William Fawcett
Collins, Herman

111 I lln, Charles Post
111.i' , Nathan Foster.
11 lc•tt, Williani Henry
11 rlott, Robert

WITHDRAWN:
Kurtz, Samuel B.
O'Brien, Maurice
Priest, Richard Turner

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Carey, Everett Pascoe
Boring, Flavius Josephus
Castle, Isaac Newton
Guppy, Edward Ham
*McKenzie, Roderick
McNary, William Thomas

DIED:
Pender, David Rattary
Reed, Elliot
Wilder, Alphonse Eli
Wyatt, James Bellman

•Affiliated during the year.

YOUNT LODGE, No.

12.

Napa, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Thompson Smith, Chaplain,.
Robert Crees, Master,
James. Craig, Sen. Deacon,
523 Fourth Street, Napa.
James Howard Morgan, Sen. Ward., Harry Llewellyn Bell, Jim. Deac on,
John Adolph Pederson, Marshal,
James Gillies, !tin. Warden,
Edward Derrel Beard, Treasurer, Howard Wallie Westendorf, Steward,.
Earl Hilsinger Raymond, Secretary, William Duval McManus, Steward,
Robert Spinks Bell, T)•ler.
Napa.
0

Alumbaugh, William Ed.
Amstutz, Henry Louis
Anderson, James Martin
Auerbach, Charles
Bachman, Llewellyn Thomas
Bailey, William Augustin
Barker, Arthur Burleigh
Barnes, Jay Ritchie
Bauer, Christian Herman
Beard, Edward Derrel
Beard, James Edgar
Beard, Derrel Leonard
Bell, Robert Spinks
Bendel, William Carl

MEMB;ERS:
Bickford, Elmer Leonard, P. M . .
Blunk, Arthur Scott
Bradford, William, P. M.
Bunjes, Frederick Hermann
Bush, Franklin William
Butler, Ira Mortimer
Butler, Ralph Morris
Butters, Angus
Cain, John Alex9.nder
Chalmers, John Howard
Chapman, William Levi
Chisholm, Alfred Arthur
Clark, Ray Dennison
Clarke, Alexander Douglass·.

' '""· Robert
1 111w, Max J., P. M.
llud11, John Henry
111111, Morrow Henry
lln d 1, William Edward
I Ii llonis, Guiseppi
11111 ry, Thomas
ll11nlap, David Anderson, P. M.
lt111111nge, George Henry William
I cllnnd, Gustaf Alfred
I rrlngton, Samuel Henry
I • 11ns, John Parry
I 1one, Luther John
rl11Mll, Williamson
l'111Icr, Albert Daniel
ro1ftum, Otto Bergerson
rrlftbie, Charles Albert
l~nrbcr, William Giddings
<Jnrdner, Alden Monroe
Clardner, James Buchannon
llnt,ie, ,Tacob Charles
llermain, William Eugene
lllllies, James
(JllMon, Gilson Albert
llraham, William
(l ruff, Louis
Uregory, Charles McCloon
Grigsby Alphonse De Lafayette
Orossman, Adolphus Herman
llaas, David Leopold
llarden, Joseph C.
Harker, Charles Sumner
llatch, Frederick Winslow
llearn, George Albert
Henry, William Putnam
Herron, George Merrick
Herron, Isaac George
Hill, George Wesley
Hoernle, Henry John
Hoffman, Oliver
Holden, Robert Smyth, P. M.

Horstmeyer, Hemy Conrad
Hottel, Eli Washington
Howell, Joseph
Hull, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Hunter, William
Jaekle, Carl John
Jepson, Frederik
Johnston, Finis Ewing, P. M.
Johnston, Harry Lewis, P. M.
Jordnn, Fred Murray
King, Percival Simpson, P. M.
Klose, Berthold Edwill
Klose, Walter William
Knief, Henry George
Knudsen, Andrew
Kyser, Daniel Sterling, P. M.
Lindow, William James
Liver, Richard
Lord, George Washington
Mccuaig, Alex. Malcolm, P. M.
Marois, Theodore Miximillian
Mason, Charles Edmund
Mason, James, P. M.
Mathews, Edwin Davis
Maxwell, Charles Alexander
Michelson, Oliver
Morgan, James Howard
Moss, John
Moss, Levi
Murray, Henry Wilson
McClelland, Joseph Alexander
McCollum, William John
McCue, James Edward ·
McKenzie, Wm. David
McManus, Samuel
McWade, David Dale
Newman, James Bartholomew
Oliver, Thomas
Overdeck, Milton Henry
Parker, John Watson
Parker, Arthur Campbell
Pederson, John Adolph, P. M.
Pinkham, George Grafton
Pond, Frank Alfred
Powers, Philo Fitch

27

ROSTER

28

Prouty, Arthur Garfield
Ramsey, Robert Randolph
Rasmussen, Andrew
Rathke, Otto Paul
Raymond, Earl Hilsinger, P. M.
Raymond, R euben
Raymond, William Perkins
Riggins, Clarence Nye
Robertson, John
Robertson, William Ball
Rohrer, John Charles
Ross, Cecil 1<,orces
Rutherford, Wallace Taylor
Schulze, Otto Theo.
Shepard, Edward Ralph
Shepard, Samuel Philo
Shwarz, David
Shwarz, William
Smith, Walthall Ridgway

Smith, William Thompson, P. M.
Stephens, George William
·
Stevens, James Baunty, P. G. M·
Stice, Tyre Harrison
Stice, William Wirt
Strohl, George Washington
Swift, John Jackson
'l'aylor, Robert Francis
Trower, Charles Edward, P. M.
Trubody, William Alexander
Vincent, John Richard Augustus
Voigt, William
Westendorf, Howard Wallie
Whitton, Herbert Bla keslee
Wichells, Johann Diedrich
Wilkins, Benjamin Sidney
Williams, Fred Waldo, P. M.
Young, Guy Wallace
Young, William Harvey
· -156

WITHDRAWN:
Cobbledick, Frank Marion
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Mackley, Orville John Robert
EXPELLED:
Johnson, Carl Boothe
Buchanan, William Wallace

DIED:
Shurtleff, Benjamin
Stewart, Robert

NEVADA LODGE, No. 13.
Nevada City, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

J ohn Arthur Curnow, Master,
Nevada City.
Benjamin Hall, Sen. Warden,
J ames Snell, Jun. Warden,
J ohn Thomas Morgan, Treasurer,
William Edmund Meservey, Sec.,
Nevada City.

Thomas Henry Waters, Chaplain,
Ray Hays, Sen. Deacon,
George William Ogden, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Luther Arbogast, Marshal,
Mark L. Roberts, Steward,
Henry Rablin Hoskins, Steward,
William Floyd; Tyler.

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Ennis, Franklin, P. M •
Englebright, William F.
Erskine, Fred Alexander
E vans, John
.l!'aull, George Henry
Fleming, Joseph Davenport
Floyd, William
Fogg, William Willis
Folene, Antone
Gans, Charles Cordelia
Gaylord, Ralph Wright .
Giffin, William, P. M.
Glasson, Josiah
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
German, Henry
Godfrey, James
Goodwin, Jeremiah Samuel
Gray, George Alfred
Gray, Harry Brooks
Gray, Thomas Benton, P. M .
Grissel, Charles Augustus
Hahn, Jean Mallotte
Hall, Benjamin
Harvey, Geo. Goodsell
Hays, Ray
Helwig, Henry Lester
Hill, Charles Wilson
Hitchings, John Mathew
Holland, Jacob Lafayette
Holmes, William
Hosken, Henry Rablin
Hughes, Thomas T.
Ivey, John Reid
Jacqumar, Robert
Jennings, Lloyd W.
Jepson, Christian Hans
Jorgenson, Christian, P. M.
.Tones, John Richard
Kent, Charles Erastus
Kistle, William Henry
Kitts, Herbert Stewart
Lamb, Francis Arthur
t.andsbiirg, Jasper G.

.\lion, William Grant
Arbogast, Frederick Luther, P. M.
i\ rmstrong, Leroy Ellwood
t\1hton, David
A1hbum, Hans Arent
ll11nk, Frederick William
Uarruzza, Emile
Uoach, Egbert William
lloan, Oliver Wesley
Uecker, John N.
lloll, Francis Ray
llennetts, Richard John
llovey, Albert John
Brackett, Arthur Grover
llrand, Herman William
llrown, George William
<Jarman, William Kelly
<Jatelett, George C.
Chapman, Chester Warren, P, M.
IJhisholm, James
Coan, Thomas Nicholas
Colley, James Francis, P. M.
Conley, Charles Henry
i;ohn, Casper
Cohn, Ephraim
Cook, George Harry
Cooper, Herbert Marcellas
Craig, Michael Francis
Cross, Charles Wesley
<Juli, Henry
<Junard, James Henry
Curnow, John Arthur
Curnow, Robert
Ournow, Phillip
Dailey, Daniel Albert, P. M.
Delbridge, Abel Nicholas
Dunning William
Eagye, Elzever
Eddie, Hamilton
Eddy, Charles Henry
F.ddy, Grove Charles
Eden, John Herman
I•1dwards, Edward Samuel

30

ROSTER

ROSTER

Langman, John, P. M.
Lean, James Henry
Lear, Samuel Best
Legg, George Arthur
Lord, Atherton Simeon, P. M.
Mallen, Christopher Henry
Marsh, Daniel
Marsh, Sherman Ward
Martin, Alfred
Martin, John Jamee
Martin, William Henry
Maynard, Albert Charlo11
McCµllougb, Robert .Ja111es
McDonald, IV allace
Meservey, Eugene BoI1d, P. M.
Meservey, William Edmund, P. M.
Mobley, Leon Walter
Moore, Edward Ansiern
Morgan, Eddy John
Morgan, David Eddy, P. M.
Morgan, David N affiziger
Morgan, John Thomas, P. M.
Morrison, Angus Ray
Muir, David Dalrymple
Muller, Carl Louie, P. M.
Nielson, Niels Johan
Nivens, Archibald
Ogden, George William
Osborn, Thomas Israel
Parini, Daniel
Parsons, Walter Emons
Pellamounter, 'fhomas
Philbrick, Fred Everet
Piolitti, John Baptiste
Plummer, Richard
Porter, Eugene Gerald
Power, Erastus Barnum
Quinn, Michael
Rauch, Alex., P. M.
Randolph, William Cooper, P. M.
Redington, James, P. M.
Reynolds, Wiliiam John
Richards, David
Richards, Glyns James

Richards, John Henry
Richards, William Gilbert, P. M.
Richardson, Robert
Roberts, Mark L.
Roberts, Stephen Henry
Robinson, George Edward
Rolfe, William Jasper
Rossen, Rasmus Peterson, P. M.
Rosewall, James Henry
Rowe, William
Sanders, Lawrence Charles
Scarfe, George
Scarfe, George Orin
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Senrls, Fred
Shaw, George Crawford
Siclilles, Milan Buchard
Skidmore, Grant
Snell, Albert Knapp
Snell, James
Snell, Nicholas
Smith, Hal. Othro
Stenger, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Stenger, Joseph Floyd, P. M .
Towle, Carrol Wallace
'freadwell, James Buchanan
Tregidgo, Alonzo Adolphus
Tremaine, Richard John
Tremaine, Robert Bennett
Trood, John, P. M.
'frood, William
Turner, Robert Haviland
Tyler, George Alton
Veal, William Henry
Vizzard, Joseph H.
·waters, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Weisenburger, Christian C., P. M.
Weiss, J<~rederick Erhardt
Westerfield, William Jackson
White, Francis
White, James C.
Wilborn, Miles Richard
Williams, Richard
Wood, Frank Merton
- H4

WITHDRAWN:
Fiss, Franklin Benjamin
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jo:vans, John Owen
Godfred, Fred
Medlin, Fred William
Marsh, Martin Luther
Morris, James Douthty
Hkidmore, Rush Dix

DIED:
Sukeforth, Elisha Gurney
Tam, Antonio
Tellam, Frederick
White, Joseph Newton

TEMPLE LODGE, No. 14.
Sonoma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
l'harles Arad Whitmore, Master, Thomas Jefferson McGimsey, Chap.,
Sonoma, Cal.
Harry Barnett Shaw, Sen. Deac.,
William John Clements, Sen. Ward., John Henry Stonier, Jr., Jun. Dcac.,
Edward Sophus Michelssen, J. W., Montgomery Paxton Akers, Marshal,
Custave Henry Hotz, Treasurer,
Frederick Detrick Bose, Steward,
Ralph Everett Perkins, S ecretary, Julius William Fochetti, Steward,
Sonoma, Cal.
Bcnj a min Berdson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adler, Adam Winkle
Goethe, William Edward
Akers, Montgomery Paxton
Gottenberir. H. Williams, P. M.
Appleton, William Greenleaf
Harris, Granville Swift
Baer, Berna!d
Hart, Ezra Blair
Bates, Henry Frederick
Hartin, Henry
Benjamin, Orson Clark
Hill, Robert Potter, P. M.
Bigelow, James Guy Kelly
Hotz, Gustave Henry
Bose, Frederick Deterick.
fngersoll, Charles Swift
Burris, Jesse, P. M.
Johannsen, Edward Henry
Clements, William John
.Johnson, Claude Eugene
Clewe, William Frederick, P. M.
Keechler, Joseph
Cordill, Louis Clark
Keller, Schuyler Colfax
Dobbel, Frederick William
Landgrabe, William Edward
Duhring, Frederick Thomas
Landis, William Alexander
Fochetti, Julius William
Lewis, Samuel Birdslee, P. M.
Gaige, Albert Ebenezer
Lowell, Froderick Arthur
Gaige, Howard Albert
McGimsey, Thomas Jefferson

ROS'l'ER

RQSTE.R

32
Michelsson, Edward S.
Montgomery, DeWitt
Moore, Oliver Cromwell
Murphy, Ralph Everett
Nolan, Walter Charles
Pasch, Hyman Lippman
Perkins, Ralph Everett
Peterson, Louis
Pinder, Benjamin Franklin
Poppe, Charles .Julius
Poppe, Robert Albion, P. M.
Potter, Charles Reid
Quien, Albert Brebner
Rich, George David
Rohrer, John Celestine
Schocken, Solomon
Shaw, Harry Barrett
Hartman, Frank Benjamin

llrun<lage, Guy Woodhams

_Simmons, Lloyd Scott
Stonier, John Henry, Jr.
Suttonfield, William Thoma.i
Tate, James Franklin, P. M.'
Thompson, Peter Henry
Thomson, Allen Milo
Van Amringe, David Ralph
Wagner, Otto Rudolph
Weaver, Albert William, P. M.
Weaver, Frank
Weltz, John
Werner, William August
Whitlack, Charles Robert
Whitmore, Charles Arad
Wood, Otis W.
Wilde, Reinhardt Frederick

llrye, Frederick Emil

-67
WITHDRAWN:
Wagnon, John Davis

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMEN'r OF DUES.
Cherry, Francis Hallock
Hocker, William Ogden
Ringstrom, Sigurd Adolf

..
EUREKA LODGE, No. r6.
Auburn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon .•
OFFICERS:

Michael David Lininger, Chaplain,
Louis Frederick Klumpp, Master,
Lincoln Buchanan, Sen. Deacon,
East Auburn.
Arthur Stanley Cl~gg, Sen. Warden, James Simpson Johns, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Joseph Locher, Jun. Warden, Joseph Marie Francis, Marshal,
Frederick Solon Stevens, Treasurer, Guy Woodhams Brundage, Steward,
Oscar George Houchin, Steward,
Christian Fred~rick Richter, Sec.,
Jonathan Fulton, Tyler.
Auburn.
Adams, John Benton
Aiken, William Nathaniel
Allen, George E.
Anderson, Albert Wallace
/I nderson, Carl Frederick
A nrlerson, William Craig

MEMBERS:
Barter, William
Baxter, J 0 seph Quincey
Bell, George Vincent
Bilkey, Charles Albert
Bisbee, John Goulrl, P. M.
Bourne, Ernest Edward

!looker, Ernest Oliver
llorup, Pe~er
lluchanan, Lincoln
<lhamberlain, David Jerome
I :logg, Arthur Stanley
<:ohen, Nathan Joseph
( :ullins, George Pendleton
Curtis, Henry Crittenden, P . M.
( :uthbert, John Alex.
lluvis, Guy Wakeman
l>IKque, Henry, P. M.
Dootkin, Frederick Charles
l•:ckberg, Peter George
l.t"ay, George Howard
l•'itch, Frederick Robert
l•'lnming, Arthur Spencer, P. M.
l•'rnncis, Everett Allen
l•'runcis, Joseph Breton
Francis, Joseph Marie
l•'o~ter, Evans Robie
l<'ulton, Jonathan, P. M.
J<'ulweiler, John Mathias, P. M.
lloraldson, Gerald
mover, Alfred Kingsley
(I rannell, Charles Aldon
lfreen, Arthur Reginald
lfallborn, Arthur Olaf
llamilton, Charles Oscar, P. M.
11 in ton, William Edward
ITohfeld, Edward
II ouchen, Oscar George
11 owe, Alfred Thomas
.Johns, James Simpson
Kerr, Walter Lowrie
Klumpp, Louis Frederick
J,ardner, William Branson
J,nwrence, Charles Henry
f,ininger, Michael David, P. M.

Locher,. Albert Joseph
Locher, Carroll Degon
Loeber, Edward William
Lukens, Judson Earl
Lukous, Sylvester Guy
Marsh, Frederick Taylor
Martin, Peter Daniel
May, William Isaac
McCann, William John
Mehlman, Herman Werner
Parker, Ivan Henry
Prewett, James E.
Prewett, William James, P. M.
Pullen, John Francis
Quire, Joseph Spencer
Ray, George Dalton
Robinson, Stephan Boutwell
Rooney, Robert Fleming, P. M.
Robinson, Alexander Kelley
Richter, Christian Frederick, P. M.
Safford, John Coleman
Seim, John Hansen
Snowden, Edward Christopher
Smith, Pearl Tbadius
Smith, Preston Washington, P. M.
Shane, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Shepard, Will Abel
Stevens, Frederick Solon
Stevens, Henry Cushing
Stone, Clarence Draper
Tabor, Ashley Raymond
Taylor, Junius Clifton
Tittle, Horatio Seymore
'l'reverton, James
Tripp, Frank Leslie
Tuttle, Charles Albion
White, John Miles
Williams, Albert Moresby
Williams, Carlos
Williams, James Marshall
-92

DIED:
11 obson, John Beaugardi
Rogers, Thomas Nelson
Wiley, Morris Birkbeck
3

38

ROSTE_R

ROSTER

LA PARFAITE UNION LODGE, No. 17.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
Edouard L. Charpentier, Jun. Deacon,
Pierre Pommier, Master,
Brewster Frost Ames, Sen. Warden, Michel E. Diebold, Chaplain,
Simon Levy, Marshal,
Alfred Gebert, Jim. Warden,
Albert Jules Fabre, Steward,
Adolphe Huguenin, Treasurer,
Camille H. Artru, Steward,
Paul de St. Jullien, Secretary,
Anatole Lobe, Tyler.
1IO Sutter Street.

Joseph Nevraumont, Sen. Deaco11,
MEMBERS:
Bousquet, Alphonse
Allibert, .G ustaYe
Bouteiller, Louis Auguste
Ames, Brewster Frost
Bozio, Orlando
Andichou, Maximin
Carnes, Louis
Arelis, Jean
Campiche, Paul
Artigues, Joseph Emile, P. M.
Cnndevan, Elie
Artru, Camille Henri
Candevan, Pierre
Artru, Henri
Chaigneau, Alfred
Aubin, Auguste Henri
Champion, Joseph
Auradou, Antoine Leon, P. M.
Charpentier, Edouard Leon
Auradou, Jules
Christin, Chas. Alfred
Baalmann, John Peter
Clavere, Jean Pierre
Babin, Domas Colin
Clerfayt, Jules
Baget, Joseph
Coney, Alexander Kaufman, P. M.
Baggi, Emile
Coppa, Guisseppi
Basenasch, Louis
Cuenin, Emile F.
Battistessa, Guisseppe
Dazet, Jean Baptiste
Beleney, George
Decourtieux, Amand Xavier
Bellegarde, Pascal
Dehay, Emile
Bellocq, Pierre
Dclagnes, Benjamin
Bergerat, Louis
Descombes, Edouard Eli
Bergez, Jean
Diebold, Michel E., P. M.
Bertin, Leonce Charles
Drayeur, Auguste Constant
Berton, George Abel
Duchein, Eugene
Bine, Rene
Dupas, Jean Marie, P. M.
Blanquie, Edward
Dupuich, Leon Raphael
Blum, Jacques
Eisenberg, Adolphe
Blum, Leon ·
Encoyand, Francois
Boisson, Francis
Escude, Gabriel
Bollack, Alphonse

J.<:scude, Theodore
l~smiol, Adrien
1!'11bre, Albert Jules
l!'igeac, Louis .
l!'ranck, Isidoree
1''redrick, Marcus White
Uahard, Robert
Uarrigues, Andre
Gehret, Alfred
Godchaux, Edmond
Godeau, Jules S.
Ooltlaracena, Orel Martin, P. M.
Uoustiaux, Auguste, P. M.
Urandjean, Charles
Orothwell, Victor
Oron, Pierre
IT affemayer, Joseph
IIirsch, Ernest
II irtzler, Victor
Hour, J ean Baptiste
Huguenin, Adolph, P. M.
IIuguenin, Henri
1,abrucherie, Vincent
Lacaze, Louis
1,aeombe, Camille
Lahanier, Camille
Lame, Louis
Lanszweert, Xavier
Larnulandie, Emile
Larque, Albert"
Laurens, Auguste
Lenormand, Leon
Lephakis, John
Letroadec, Julien
Levy, Nathan
Levy, Simon
Lille, Charles
Lobe, Anatole
Lobe, Louis
Long, Claude
Mailhebuau, Evariste C.
Marquis, Canac Fernand
Masson, Francois Pierre, P. M.
Metter, Louis
Meuel, Paul E.
0

Milhan, Gustave
Monaco, Jean Baptiste·
Mooser, Charles E.
Mottet, Henri, P. M.
Neuburger, Gustave
Nevraumont, Ernest
Nevraumont, Joseph
Newmark, Mauri~e
Ortion, Auguste Joseph Ver.ti.•
Pagnuelo, Ernest
Palacin, Joseph
Pasquet, Auguste
Penez, Charles E.
Pensa, Joseph
Perrin, Henri Jules
Pestelacci, Tobia
Peters, Frank
. Pfund, Gebhard
Pierron, Emile Joseph
Pinout, Francois
Plante, Joseph Henry
Pommier, Pierre, P. M .
Pontacq, Joseph
Pottet, Alphonse
Raas, Emmanuel, P. M.
Raggi, James
Redinger, Michl'!
Reiss, Bernard
Reiss, Emile
Revert, Alpbmse
Rimasea, Charles
Robert, Cyprien Pierre
Roncovieri, Louis Alfred
Roumiguiere, Alphonse
Rousseau, Charles M.
Roustan, Jean
Rude, Alexander
Rufener, Louis E.
Sehabiague, Arnaud
Sehabiague, Thomas, P. M
Schinazi, Elias
Seibel, Frederique
Serveau, Emile
Sevilla, Albert
St. Jullien, Paul de

85

ROSTER

36

ROSTER

Vialatte, Etienne
Villegia, Leopold
Vinez, Georges
Wagner, Edward Lafayette
Weill, Raphael
Weill, Sylvain
Willard, Jules
Willard, Leon

'l'erramorse, Francois
Terramorse, Francois, Jr.
Thirion, Louis August
Thierry, Auguste
Treyer, Theophile
Van Ander, Beck Charles
Vautier, Fernand
Vergnes, Frederick
Vermeil, Jean Louis

SAN JOAQUIN LODGE, No. 19.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

-165
WITHDRAWN:
Allemand, Jeremie

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Soulages, Jules
Mousquil, Jean
DIED:
Hallgarten, Benoit
Astorg, Alphonse
Loustaunau, Jos. Charles

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.
Downieville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon. ~
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Meyer, Henry Herman, P~ M .
Alexander, James Ramsey
Morse, Horace Armsby
Barrett, John Miles
Morse, George Barrows
Bettinger, Carl Francis
Pauly, Benjamin, P. M.
Case, Eliphalet Lewis, P. M.
Quigley, Henry Edwin
Corbett, David
Redding, William Irvin, P. M.
Costa, John
Casserly, William Wickham, P. M. Shafer, John Booth
Shafer, Sheldon Woodruff
Davy, Robert Ballard
Shafer, William Henry, P. M.
Ford, Tirey Lafayette
Smith, Stanley Andrew, P. M.
Forbes, Robert, P. M.
Taylor, George Francis
Frye, Jason Samuel
Thomas, Henry
Grant, Allan H.
Wagner, Lawrence Neilsen
Hartling, Valentine
Wehe, Francis Rumrill, P. M
Hartling, Valentine, Jr.
Wilson, Charles Martin
Hunnicut, Ezra
Winrod, Thomas Eli, P. M.
Helmet, Victor Gustaf
-34
Woessner, John
Kieffer, Adam
Hough, Joseph Zephaniah

DIED:
Weil, John Joseph

B7

Hcnjamin Franklin Good, Master,
Reuben Henry Sink, Chaplain,
27 North Hunter Street.
Daniel Webster Beatie, Sen. Deacon,
Freeman Fraser Black, Sen. Warden, Henry John Colberg, Jun . Deacon,
Charles Bertram Pearson, Jun. W., Gilbert Garrie Davis, Marshal,
Frank Shackelford Boggs, Treas.,
Claude Melnotte Gill, Steward,
Isaac Henry Robinson, Secretary,
John Anton Kasper, Steward,
P. 0 . Box 388.
John Rodney Gleeson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ambrose, William Henry Clay, P. M. Cavis, Joseph William, P. M
Chalmers, Alexander, P. M.
Ames, Ruel Fremont
Chalmers, Peter .John
Anton, John Charles
Chandler, Walter Leroy
Arndt, Michael S.
Chapman, Fred Willis
Arnold, Francis Claronce
Chase, Aquilla Daniel
Austin, John William Williams
Chase, George Walker
Backes, Henry
Chesnutwoo<l, William Hartzell
Bagley, Daniel, Sr.
Chichester, James Harvey
Balta, George
Bargmann, Hermann Conrad, P. M. Chosson, Justin Noel
Barnett, Henry Addison
Christie, Frederic Charles
Barnickol, William Frederick
Clark, Fred Pope
Beach, Myron Nelson
Clark, Henry Isaac
Beatie, Daniel Webster
Coates, James York
Beringer, Benjamin Franklin
Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Cobb, John Patton
Black, Freeman Fraser
Colberg, Henry John
Black, George Henry
Coleman, Elmer Davidson
Boggs, Frank Shackelford
Cole, Hilliard Roblin
Bottomley, Charles Monroe
Bradford, Clark Campbell
Craig, James Burr
Briscoe, Henry Ferguson
Cramer, Edward Ernest
Brogan, Thomas William
C:ulver, Gilbert Caleb
Brown, George Albert; Jr.
Danner, Lewellyn Alexander
Burgess, Wilford Harmon
Darby, Frank Erwin, P. M.
Burton, Austin Marshal
Davidson, Adelbert Williams, P. M.
Caldwell, Francis Marion
Davies, William Abraham, P. G. M.
Campbell, Joy Douglas, P. M.
Davis, Edward Carl
Carndufi', Frank Ford
Davis, Gilbert Garrie, P. M.
Carrick, William Edward
Deardorff, Edward Samuel
Carroll, William Henry
DeGuire, George Washington

38

ROSTER

Harter, Glen George
DcVries, William Garland
Hatch, C})arles Edward
Dickinson, Clarence Leroy
Haven, Henry
Dickinson, Everett Clarence
Henderson, Robert William
Donati, Henry
Henery, George Porter
Doran, Richard Emmett
Henery, Samuel
Dozier, Wm. Gillard
Highland, James Robert
Draper, Albert Nelson
Dunbar, Sylvanus Gilman S., P. M. Hillman, John Smail
Hogan, Walter Byron
Earle, Richard Thomas, P. M.
Hubbard, Ferdinand Bradley
Eichelberger," Archibald B.
Hudson, Charles Edward
Eicke, Dana Perkins
Huntington, Edward T.
Eley, George Samuel Barnard .
Hurlbut, D1miel Bradley
1':lgan, Oliver Dayton
Hynes, Charles Parnell
Emerson, Douglas Lee
Inglis, Robert
Ewing, John Worthington Dorsey
Inglis, William Eichelberger ·
Farnsworth, Clovis Alonzo
Jackson, Charles Moses; P. M.
Finnell, Michael, P. M.
Jacobs, Alfred
Fithian, Robert Woods
Jenkins, John Harvey
Frankenheimer, Louis Henry
Johnson, Edwin Samuel
Fredericks, Frank Henry
Johnson, William Russell
Frerichs, Simeon J.
Jones, Charles Judithan
J<"'riedberger, William
Kasper, John Anton
Fuller, Harry Reuben
Kennedy, Franklin Hayes
Fussell, George
Kincaid, Fred Llewellyn
Gaines, Francis Albert
Kinnear, James Williard
Garrison, Noel Hunt, P . M.
Kirby, William Don
Garwood, John
Klench, Daniel Lewis
Gerdes, Herman Edward
Kroeckel, George
Gerdes, Robert Anton
Kroyer, John Minor
Gibbens, Edward Lewis
Laggas, John
Gilman, C!J.arles W olcot
Lang, Roscoe Alfred
Gleeson, John Rocln~y
Langdon, Samuel Walter Ross
Glick, Henry
Levinsky, Albert Leonard
Goode, Benjamin Franklin
Lewis, Edwin
Goodell, George
Lewis, John Thomas
Goodrum, Eugene F.
:Lorenz, William Henry
Goodrum, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Lund, Andrew John
Grider, John Carson
Gross, Edward Emil
Lynch, Willis
Lynn, James William
Groves, Frederick William C.
Groves, Robert Henry
Mallett, Albert
Mann, Robert Ernest
Hale, Elvin Mynett
Hammond·, Howard
Mantele, Con
Maschek, Charles Hermann
Hammond, Robert Ray ·
Matteson, John Joshua ·
Harrington; Arnold Arnie

ROSTER
Maxey, John D.
McCown, William Evans
McGill, William Henry
McKain, Fred J., P. M. ·
McLaren, John Cameron.
McLeod, John H.
McNaught, William
Meyerink, George Albrecht
Miller, Charles Warren, P. M.
Miller, Frank B., P. M.
Moore, George Franklin
Moore, John Williams
Moore, Royal T.
Morris, William Elda
Morrison, Edwin Crane
Newell, James Henry
Oldham, Walter Thomas
Oliver, John Edward
Orsehler,· Henry Mathias
Owen, Charles Edward
Owen, Henry Dorrance
Owings, George Spencer
Parkinson, Oscar Bronson
Payne, David Rolland
Pearce, George H.
Pea rson, Charles Bertram
P erry, John .Marion
Petzinger, Casper Rudolf
Petzinger, William Christopher
Phelps, Joseph Larose
Philo, Arthur De Witt
Pollard, Freel Albert 1 P. M .
Porter, Stephen Jerom e
Pullen, Edwaru Jo4n
Putnam, George Clinton
Quail, Frank Eugene
Quisenberry, Robert Lee
Rhoads, Samuel Finley
Rhoads, William Jacob
Richards, William Henry
Riddell, John E verett
Robinson, Isaac Henry, P. M.
Roche, Peter John
Rogers, Charley Oscar'
Root, Vernon. Thomas

Ruggles, John Everett ·
Sander, Louis Frank
Sather, Andrew Theo-.
Schlichtman, Claus, Jr.
Scofield, Francis Herbert
Scullen, John. Fish
Shelford, Charles Vincent
Shirley, Walter Joseph ·
Simard, Ernest Albert
Simpson, William McPayne·
Sink, Reuben Henry, P. M.
Smallfield, Albert Augustus.
Smith, Arthur David
Smith, Frank Hartford, P. M
Smith,. Richard Russell
Smith, Walter Alex
Snell, George Hinman
Spare, Edwin Garber
Sperry, George Barker
Spurrier, Sherman Merriam
Stephenson, John Franklin
Stewart, Carlyle Ernest
Stewart, James Alpheus
Stites, Josoph Augustus
Stocker, Walter Wrightman
Stone, Edward Roger
Stone, Ralph Todd
Stone, William Henry
Strong, Percy Morton
Stroup, Randolph Clinton
Sutherland, George Wesley
Swain, John Anderson
Tandrow, James Andrew
'rarr, Florence William
Tatterson, George Watson
•ratterson, Arthur Potter
Taylor, Charles Albert
Taylor, Herbert Vaughn
Thomas, Henry James
Thomas, William Bacon
Thresher, Minord Sprague, P. M.
Tillinghast, Joseph Henry
Tucker, Charles Francis
Twit.rihings, James Edgar, .Jr.
Tyner, Charles Goruon

·/

ROSTER

40
Vance, Charles Albert
Viebrock, Francis John
Vilhauer, Herbert Jacob
Wakefield, Clark Gardner
Wall, Wilber C.
Wallace, Benjamin Carpenter
Weaver, Leroy Albert
Westbay, William Wesley
Weston, Charles Royce
White, Kellogg Albert
Wilcox, Ralph Eugene, P. M.
Willard, George Allen, Jr.
Williams, John P.
Williams, Robert Timothy

ROSTER

Williams, Edwin Henry
Williams, Walter Scott
Willis, Herbert Quillen
Wood, William Walter
Woodhull, Willie B.
Woods, Alfred Blakeley
Woods, Claude Emery
Woods, Ezekiel William S . .
Wyman, Bernice A.
Yost, Frederick John
Young, Daniel McLeod
Youngblood, Homer Roy
Zeimer, Irving Scott

-267

WITHDRAWN:
Plummer, Edward Brudenell
Stevens, George
Allen, Wheeler

DIED:
Burres, Noah Emmett (E. A.)
Thompson, Richard Thomas

WASHINGTON LODGE, No.

20.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stat ed Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Clyde Horace Brown, Master,
Mahlen E. W aldren, S en. Deacon,
Sacramento.
F rederick Hurbert Betz, Jun. D eac.,
John Henry Lindenmeyer, S en. W., J ohn Gibson Labadie, Marsha.I,
Frank Jacob Bock, Jun. Warden,
Charles Clark, Steward,
Benjamin Huntington Gallup, Treas., F rank Milne, Steward,
John Scott, S ecretary, Sacramento.
George Benjamin H err, Tyler.
John Jeremiah Evans, Chaplain,
Anderson, Alden
Arbogast, Jacob Lewis
Arnold, Henry Waldeck
Ashworth, Edward Fletcher
Avery, Ira
Bates, Albert
Betz, Fred 'k Hurbert
Block, Maurice
Bock, Frank J'acob

MEMBERS :
Bock, George, P. M.
Booth, Albert Porch
Boyd, Joseph Charles
Bowell, Roy Garfield
Brauer, Herman Obet
Breuner, Louis Frederick
Breuner, John
Brown, Alfred James
.Brown, Orla Francis

Urown, Clyde Horace
llurrows, William Grant
lluech, John
Uurgess, George Washington
Clampbell, Alden Wilson
l'nmpbell, Walter William
I Jampbell, William Richard
IJhapman, Lawrence Heilman
( 'hittenden, Charles Joseph
<Jhristiansen, Thomas Henry, P, M.
('lurk, Charles
Cochrane, William, P. M.
Cohn, Aloysius Sylvester
Conran, Ira Milton
I >n vis, Herman J.
Dolan, John Henry, P. M.
Dosch, Walter Rudolph Carl
Dunbar, Marcus William
Duden, Ellsworth Frederick, P. M.
Ebert, George Ernest, P. M.
Edinger, Frank Austin
Ellis, David Gregory
Estes, Robert Lee
Evans, John Jeremiah
~'erguson, Milton James
Folger, Albert Gilbert
Gallup, Benjamin Huntington
Gay, Remus Upton, P. M.
Gardner, Charles Francis
Gerber, Edwin Henry
Gerber, William Emil, P. M.
Gillis, Dugald Hall
Ginsberg, J acob
Girdner, Henry Tutt
Gostick, George Abram
Gostick, Jess David
Grau, Herman William H.
Green, Erskine
Grider, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.
Gruhler, Jacob
Heide, Robert
Heilbron, Adolph
.
H emmings, Edward Charles
Hendricks, William Chalmers
Hickman, Frank

41

Hurley, John
Reisen, Charles, Jr., P. M.
Herr, George Benjamin
Jackle, William Mathew
Jacobs, Julius Samuel
Johnson, Hiram Warren
Johnson, Presley Beauregard, P. M.
Johnson, Phillip, P, M.
Jones, Charles Desmund
Kiessel, Frederick William, P. M.
Kestler, Frederick Henry
Kleinsorge, Charles Edward
Klune, John Bernard
Kolliker, Frederick
King, Charles Sumner
Kiesseg, Harry Richard
Keene, Albert Edward
Labadie, John Gibson, P. M.
Lancaster, Frank W.
Lau, Henry August Frank
Lindenmeyer, John Henry
Littlefield, Nathan F orrest
Luce, John Couchman
Lund, John Peter
Lykens, Preston Lodwick, P. M.
Madden, Jerome
Maslin, Prentiss
Maughmer, Carl
McAdam, John Wardell
McArthur, James Corrigan
McDonald, Roy Lee
McDonnell, Clarence II.
McKee, Charles Bradford
M.cKee, Edwin Henry
McKillip, Charles William
McKinnon, John J enkins, P. M.
McKissick, Harrison Topp
Menken, Peter Heinrich
Merkeley, Robert Anderson
Merrell, George Walter
Miller, John Henry
Milne, Frank Lawson
Morrow, Ar thur Leland
Mullin, Norman Anthony
Nash, Earl Lyon

42

ROSTER

Nathan, Henry Michael
Needham, Irving McAdam
Newman, Peter Blaine
Ochsner, John
Pear, Edmund Franchville
Peltier, George Wilfred
Pfund, Edward Franklin
Philbrick, Harold
Phillips, Charles Avery
Popert, James Carl
Potter, William Alfred, P . M.
Putnam, George Prescott
Pipher, Joseph Elmer
Prideau, Edwin
Putnam, George Alfred
Robertson, Angus John
Robertson, Charles C.
Royster, William Alexander
Sayre, William Abner, P. M.
Schoenbaekler, Charles
Schwilk, Charles Frederick

Stanton, John Edward
Stillwell, Arthur Marriott
Straub, John
Silvius, Herman Theodore,· P. M.
Scott, John
Steinman, Emil
'ribbetts, Thomas Rush
Trueblood, Albert Allen
Wachhorst, Eugene Stewart
Waldren, Mahlon E.
Wenzell, George Elwood
West, }'rederick Wil'liam
Wheat, James Montford
Wickler, Jay Clarence
Willey, William Henry Harrison
Wilson, ,Tesse Franklin
Wood,. Henry Clay
Wright, Charles Edward
Yardley, Herbert Edward
Young, John Nelles, P. M.
-149

WITHDRAWN:
Scott, James

McMullin, Irving

Adams, Charles Edward
Bockrath, Herman Henry

DIED:
Butler, :Harry Mills
Johnston, James Waverly

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 21.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated llfeetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS :
Harry Scott Gray, Master,
William Ault, Chaplain,
Box 549, Honolulu, H. T.
Walter Caverhill Shields; Sen. Deac.,
James Russell MacRa·e MacLean,
James Louzada Friel, Jun. Deacon,
Senior Warden,
J ames Hall Fiddes, Marshal,
Harry Christian Burns; Jun. Warden, Irwin Spaulding, Steward,
Robert Catton, Treasurer,
John Edward Burns, 'steward,
Kenneth Robt. Gordon Wallace, Sec., Joshua Daniel Tucker, Tyler.
Box 408, Honolulu, H. T .

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Cartwright, .Bruce, Jr.
Ahadie,· J ea n
· Catton, Robert
Ahrams, Louis
Ahrens, August
Chalmers, George, Jr.
Child, John Francis
Alexander, William Douglas
Clarke, John Kirkwood
Allerton, Charles Henry
Alvarez, Louis Fernandez
Cleghorn, Percy T. P.
Coke, James Leslie
Anderson, David William
Conant, Elmer Ellsworth
Arleigh, Augustus Bickel
()ook, Frank Beach
Armstrong, Frank Hopkins
Cooley, Alfred Ernest
Ashley, William George
nottrell, Charles Boutelle
Ault, William
Cooper, Charles Bryant
Austin, Herbert Clark
Counter, Moses Ruby
Barnes, Albert
Coxhead, Albert Ernest
Bartlett, Charles Garfield
Coyne, Arthur
Bartlett, Paul Robinson
Crabbe, Clarence Linden
Batchelor, Frank Augustus
Craig, John Henry
Batchelor, .Tob
Crane, Charles Spencer
Beal, Charles Ladd
Crozier, Charles
Boardmore, Bernard Frank
Cummings, James Henry, Jr.
Bidgood, St. Clair
Cunha, Emanuel Silveria .
Bindt, Frederick Martyn
Badge, Edward Ellis
Curtis, George Beeston
Damon, Frederick Beckwith
Boyd, James Harbottle
Dart, Elbert Ripley
Boyd, Joseph Thompson
Davidson, Robert Morton
Boyd, Willia.m Wright
Deering, Augustus
Boyer, Frank Orville
Dekum, Edward
Bretteville, Anton Christopher E.
Brink, Harry Steck
Derby, Albert Jones, P. M.
Dickey, Charles William
Bromley, Walter Hall
Brown, Edwar-d Cook
Dougherty, James Donohue
Douglas, David
Brown, George Wat~on
Dow, Herbert Manchester
Bruhn, Bernhard
Dunshee, Herbert
Bruns, Harry Christian
Douthitt, Edward Alex.
Buchly, Rudolf Johannes
Dyson, .Tames
Buckley, Peter
Ewart, George Robert
Budde, Theodor August C.
Ewart, GeoTge Robert, Jr.
Burniston, Harry James
Burns, John Edward
Falk, Charles Jacob ·
Falls, Moor Nelson
Campbell, Chandlor
Farnsworth, George Howe
Campbell, Charles Jerome
Farnsworth, John
Campbell, Herbert Moody
Faye, Hans Peter
Campbell, John Thomas
Fernandez, Abraham
Campbell, Marston
Fiddes, James Hall
Campbell, William Henry

43

ROSTER

44

ROSTER

Foster,· Henry Whitman
Foster, William Edward
Francis, John Wilson
Frazee, William Lincoln
French, John Scott
Friel, James Louzada, P. M. '
Game, Clyffard
Gedge, Norman Edward, P. M.
Giffard, Harold Brickwood
Giffard, Walter Montais
Gorman, James Aylward
Goudie, ]'rederick
Graham, William Montrose, P. M.
.
Gray, Harry Scott
Gregory, James
Greig, Norman
Grindell, Herbert Joseph
Grossman, Mose Edmund, P. M.
Gurrey, .i\,lfred Richard
Hair, Robert, :I:'. M.
Hall, Charles Sumner, P. M.
Halstead, E:dgar
Halstead, Frank
Hapai, Henry Chase
Harding, Lewis Lomax
Harrison, Arthur
Harrison, Vincent Marmaduke
Hedemann, Johannes Christian
Heilbron, William
Heinemann, George
Henderson, Lew George
Herrick, Charles Frederick
Hewitt, George Clinton
Heye, Karl Werner
High, Clifford Bell
Hjorth, Johan L. V.
Hocking, Alfred
Hofgaard, Christopher Blom
Hoffmann, Theodore
Holloway, Carl Sheldon
Holmes, Andrew
Holt, Bertram Griggs, Jr.
Holt, John Dominis
Holtz, Albert Louie
Horswill, Charles Arthur

Howatt, James College P., :i:-: M.
Hughes, Edwin
Hughes, Henry Thomas
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Hyman, Joseph
Irwin, Chester
!sen.b erg, Daniel Paul Rice
.Johnson, Henry. Stuart
Jones, John Griffiths
Jones, John Walter
Jones, Raymond William
Jorgensen, J orgen
Jungelaus, Alfred Henry
Kaiser, Carl
Kershner, James Wales
Kent, Donald Calvin
King, Louis Churchill
King, Thomas Jam es
Kruger, Frank Julius
Kruss, Emil Louis
Lando, Jacob
Langeheim, Ernest
Lansing Theodore F.
Larnach, Alexander D.
Laws, Henry
Levingston, Isador
Lewers, Robert
Lewis, Abraham, Jr., P. M.
Lewis, Frenerick Martin
Lewis, Edgar Louis
Lishman, Thomas Walker
Little, Joseph Musgrave, P. M.
Lord, Edmund Joseph
Lowrie, William James
Lucas, John
Lundh, Hans Jacob
Lydecker, Robert Colfax
Lyons, Moses Timothy
Macconel, James Murray
Macintyre, Donald
Mackall, Bruce McVean
Mackinnon, John Marr
Mackintosh, Alexander, P. M.
Mackintosh, Cecil Arthur
MacLean, James Russell Mac. R.

Mac Rae, David
Mare.allino, Antonio Quilho
Marcallino, John
Marquez, Charles Nicholas
Marques, Joseph Dores
Melanphy, John
Monsarrat, James M., P. M.
Morton, Henry Chesney
Myhre, Arthur Halfdan
Myhre, Halvor
Myers, Jackson Randolph
McClellan, James
Mcintyre, Hugh Edward
McKeague, Robert Alexander
McKee, William Barron
McKinnon, Joseph Malcolm
McNally, Charles Henry
McNamarra, David Arthur
McVeigh, John DeVive
Muller, John Julius
Nase, Barnabus Tilton
Naylor, James Alfred Anderson
Neill, John, P. M.
Newman, Bradford Norton
Nicolai, Gustav
Noble, Arthur C.
Nugent, Fred Rockwell
Oldenborg, Martin
Olsson, Otto William
Omsted, Olaf
Oram, Alfred John
Orbell, Frank
Ouderkirk, John
Parker, Samuel
Paxson, Sumner Swisher
Pedgrift, James Henry
Penhallow, Henry Balch
Petersen, William Niclai
Petrie, Lester
Pfluger, Henry Christian
Phillips, Mannie
Podmore, Robert Wood
Pope, Willis Thomas
Porter, Kirk Bancroft
Porter, Thomas Sherman

Pratt, Alexander
Pratt, James William
Purdy, Hiram
Ramsay, Samuel Robert
Rankin, Guy Fawkes
Rawlins, William Thomas, P. M.
Raymond, James Harvey
Read, Decker Jewett
Reedy, Ray B.
Renton, Henry Herbert
Rice, William Henry
Richardson, Frank Edward
Richter, Arthur
Riley, William Russel
Robinson, Mark Prever
Rodiek, Georg Friedrfoh
Rolph, George Morrison
Rothwell, John George, P. M.
Rowat, Allan Ritchie
Sachs, Nathaniel Sanders
Schaefer, Frederick August
Schieber, Anton
Schoening, Chas. Julius
Schoening, Compus Mentis
Scott, Oliver Chamberlain
Shaw, Walter Edward
Schlemmer, Maximilian
Schmidt, Franz Theodor
Schroeder, Heinrich August
Searle, John Bursnell
Searle, John Cooper
Shields, Walter Caverhill
Siebecker, William Henry
Simpson, Edmund Trew
Simpson, Hester Stephen
Sinclair, Archibald Neil
Singlehurst, William Gibson
Smiddy, Jerome Joseph
Smith, Cornelius Wells
Smith, Frederic Carlos
Smith, Thomas
Soper, John Harris, P. M.
Son th worth, Edward · A.
. Spalding, Edward Irwin, P. M.
Spalding, Irwin

45

ROSTER

ROSTER
St. John-Gilbert, Oswald
Stokes, John Francis Gray
Stolz, Frederico Leupold
Sutherland, James
Swan, Edmund
Taylor, ·Henry Albert, P. M.
Thayer, Wade Warren
Thompson, Frank Edward, P. M.
Tracy, Clifton Howard
'fripp, Alfred Newton
Tucker, Joshua Daniel, P. M.
Venhuizen, John
Vetlesen, Love Moller, P. M.
Von Damm, Bertram
Waggoner, Bernard
Wagner, Geol'ge Julius
Walker, Hugh Hobron
Walker, Samuel Allen
Waldron, John William

'Vall, Alford Clarence
Wall, ~rthur Frederick
Wall, Thomas Edward
Wallace, Kenneth Robert
Ward, George Edward
Waterman, Emil Joseph
Watkins, Norman
Wells, William Ira
Whitel1ouse, Louis Mein
Wilder, Gerrit Parmile
Wilder, Arthur Ashford
Willard, John David
Willgeroth, Heinrich
Williams, Charles
Wolf, Lee H.
Wood, Clifford Brown
Wootten, Henry George
Young, N orval Beam

a:

-305

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lloyd, Albert Edward
Greig, George Bicknell

Clair, Emilie
Cooper, Walter Gaunt (E. A.)
DQwling, ,James Joseph

DIED:
Hancock, Grayson Richard (E. A.)
Sanders, Milton Nelson
.
Withers, William Shipp (E. A.)

OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 22.
San Francisco, San Francisco County,
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each m·;nth.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:

Arthur Hobart Halloran, Master,
Walter Jacob Philbrick, Sen. Deacon,
Rialto Building.
C. Theodore Hansen, Jun. Dea·con,
Hermon Fowler Wilson, Sen. Ward., Martin Antone Schmidlin, Marshal,
Charles Patterson Fonda, Jun. Ward.,.L'rederick William Nish, Steward,
Charles Lyman I:Iaskell, Treasurer, William Charles Ast, Steward, ·
Walter Godfrey Anderson, Secretary, George Theodore Fischer, Tyler.
]665 Clay Street.

MEMBERS:
i\hlborn, Charles Joseph Henry
Bradford, Wallace
Allen, John Stevenson
Brinkman, August Frederick
i\nderson, John Theo. Francis
Brittan, William Giles
Anderson, Walter Godfrey
Broderson, George Chri~tian
Anderson, Winslow
Bronson, Frithjoy
.\ nthony, LeRoy Warfield
Brown, Andrew Alexander
Arnold, Henry Augustus
Brown, Amazon Henry
Ashworth, Frank Parker
Brown, Harry Daniel
Ast, Jacob Frederick
Browne, Christopher Robert, P. M.
Ast, William Charles
Brownell, James Samuel
Atwood, William Amos
Bruer, Ernest Adrian
Ayers, Willis Henry
Brunner, Henry
Babb, Harry Ruben
Bryan, William Vose, P. M.
Backus, Samuel Woolsey, P. M.
Buckbee, Spencer Uone
Bailey, Lewis Hamilton
Buckrnann, Henry Diedrick
Baker, Frank Elmer
Bullock, John Henry
Bal1lwin, Murray
Bullock, Russ Ransom
Baldwin, Orville Charles, P". M.
Bullock, Thomas Seamon
Barber, George Brinton
Bultman, John Henry
Barlage, William Andrew
Burner, Henry, P. M.
Barnes, .James John
Burridge, Walter Joseph
Barnett, John Felix
Bush, William ,John
Bauer, Christopher John
Buttle, William ~'rederick
Beadle, Alfred William
Byrne, Charles Francis
Beard, .Toseph Charles
Cameron, John
Bebb, Joseph Crispia
Campbell, Robert Willis
Beckett, John
Campe, Henry Magnes
Beesey, Edmond
Cappelmann, John Christian
Beede, Alexander Creighton
Carson, Robert Neddermark
Belden, Dan Falls
Center, George Lillie
Bell, Henry James Clark
Chapman, Edward Kirk
Bender, Paul August
Chapman, Frank
Benne tt, ,John
Chapman, Frederick York
Berry, William Rob ert
Chesebrough, Andronicus
Beatty, Henry Nixon
Chesebrough, Henry Clay
Bishop, Roy Nel&.,_
Chcny, Edward Martin
Black, Robert C.
Chipman, William' Farragut
Blakeslee, Frederick Alphonso
Christensen, John Peter
Blanton, John S.
Clark, Edwin Charles
Bliss, Charles
Classen, John William
Boe.c kman, Frederick Charles
Clawson, Harry Russell
Bogen, Harry Walter
Clawson, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Boody, William Ezekiel
• Clayes, Wellington Irwin
Bouton, William Egbert
Clemens, Christian Jensen

47

48

ROSTER
ROSTER

Clift, Charles Warren
Drown, William Benjamin
Clow, John Austin
Dryden, Henry Francis
Cochran, Hugh McCauley
Dryselius, Erland
Cole, John Richard
Duebel, Charles
Collins, Frederick Richard
Dugan, Herbert Frank
Collins, George William
Dunn, Ritchie Livingston
Collins, Richard Merithew
Durbrow, Harry
Comely, Charles John
Dusinbury, John Benjamin
Cooper, Frederick Flanders
Endon, William Henry, Jr.
Cookson, William Bonsall
Eastman, Thomas Freeman
Countryman, Robert Harmer, P. M. Edwards, Dwight
Crane, Henry Adolphus
Edwards, Eugene Hammond
Cressey, Frank Albert
Edwards, William
Crookshank, Arthur Henry
Elvin, Arthur
Eva, William John
Crossley, Leonard Valentine
Evans, Albert S.
Crow, Lloyd Benjamin
Ewen, John Sangster
Curtis, Charles Mosses
Ewing, Samuel McGregor
Cutting, Henry Colman
Daggett, Almore Keith
Fagan, Harold James
.Faymonville, Bernard
Daggett, William Albertis
Damon, Marshall Nye
Feldmann, Walter Henry
Ferguson, Oscar Henry
Davidson, Joseph Robertson
]'ield, Alfred Bishop
Davis, Richard D.
Field, Frederick Howard
Davie, William Winters
Fischer, George Theodore
Day, Charles Thurber
Fitzsimmons, James Calvin
Deahl, John Linden
Dean, Walter Edwin
Fletcher, Walter Kimball, P. M.
Decker, .Peter
Flockton, Berkeley Chas.
DeGear, Warren Jackson
Fonda, Charles Patterson
Fonda, Henry Stuart
DeLano, Frank M.
Fonda, Walter Gibbs
Delger, Edward Frederick, P. M.
.Foulkes, Edward William
De Long, Maurice Gordon
Fraser, William Edward
Denniston, Edward Gere
French, Wheeler Nichols
Derby, Albert Tirrell
Freyer, Edward
Derby, John
Frost, Robert Henry
DeSi!va, Manuel Maria
Frye, John W\nslow
Devlin, Thomas Daren
Gabbs, Milton Francis
Dey!, William Carl
Gable, Herbert Aaron
Dillmann, George Paul
Gage, William Stebbins
Dittman, Richard William
Gallagher, John Patrick
Dole, Walter Wooderson
Gamble, Edward Lee
Dow, George Alva
Geary, William
Downes, C. S.
Gedge, Harry Eclwarrl
Drendell, Albert Ernest
Gibbs, Nathan Henry
Drew, George Wnrrc>n, P. M

Clh1111•11, Henry Gabriel

•lleaves, James Malcolm, P. M.
<llldden, William Boardman
lloldstein, Ludwig
llompertz, Charles William
Oonzalez, Felix Francisco
lforclon, Charles Ely
Uordon, Phil Kearney ·
Oraham, William Sutphen
II rannis, Frederick Roscoe
llraupner, Adolphus Ehrhardt
llrny, William Brown
llrcen, Jonathan
11 l'oat, Charles Frazier
llrowall, Willard Lawrence
llrnndy, Edmond
Uunn, Benjamin McKay
llnnn, John Wm.
llugcman, Robert
11 all, Mil ton Rider
1lall, Otto Norris
11 nlloran, Joseph Francis
llnllovan, Arthur Hobart
II alverson, Christian
ITambleton, William Lawrence
llammersmith, John Anthony
llnnd, Edgar Dickson
llannan, David
Hansen, C. Theodore
llanson, Peter Hjalmar
llanson, William Henry
II arding, David Webster
I larding, Ralph Judd
lrordy, Sumner
!larker, Oliver Albert
llarmes, John Theodore
Harpham, Lee Wheeler
IInrris, Jerome Omberson
I Iart, Marcus
lfarville, Benjamin Franklin
Haseman, Henry
ITaskell, Charles Lyman, P . M.
lfaste, Julius Alexander
If as tings, Philip
4

Hatfield, Arthur George
Haver, Philip John
Hnviside, John Joseph
Havner, James Randall
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Henderson, John Wesley
Hendy, John Harris
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard
Heidt, Wesley
Hewitt, Edward Thomas
Hewitt, William Alexander
Hewson, Herbert Lester
Heyer, Charles William
Hickman, Newton Heylin
Higgins, James
Higgins, Rufus Milton
Hillyer, Curtis
Hindes, Edward Brooks
Hink, Frederick Benjamin
Hobart, Ralph Willis
Hodghead, David Alexander
Holbrook, Charles Henry, Jr. ·
Holmes, Howard Carlton
Holton, Luther Janna
Holson, John Edward
Hopps, George Arthur
Hopps, Harry Ryle
Horne, Charles Henry
Hornschuch, Lawrence Charles
Houseworth, Frederick Arthur, P. M.
Houseworth, Harrison
Howard, Albert Louis
Howell, Edgar Henry
Humphreys, William Penn
Hunter, Charles Harris
Huse, Charles Gammon
Hutchinson, Charles Francis
Hutton, Andrew Houston
Isham, John Henry
Iversen, Chester Arthur
Ives, George Isaacs
Jackson, Stanley
Jacobson, John Falls
.Jagger, Henry Corbett, Jr.

49

50
J a.ynes, Frank
Jenks, George Henry, P. M.
Jensen, Harry Christian
Jensen, John William Ditlef
Johnson, Petter Henry
Johnstone, Ernest Lionel K.
Joly, Oscar Joseph
Jones, William St.ewart
Kaehler, George Alfred Ernest
Kahl, Charles Wesley
Kains, Archibald
Kammerer, George Edwar•l
Kellogg, Frank Harvey
Kellogg, Paul Frank
Kelly, Richard Edward
Kerr, James Watt
Keyes, Frank Hancock
King, Charles Andrew
King, George Rufus
King, Louis Daniel
Kinney, Marshall Johnson
Kirk, Albert Wellington
Kirsch, George Hans
·
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow
Klarmann, George
Klein, .Louis J.
Klimm, Frank .T oseph
Klitgaard, Chris Fred N.
Klumpp, Otto Henry
Kuechler, Henry Norbury
Knippenberg, Frank Rudolph
Knippenberg, George Ernest
Korts, Benjamin Frederick
Lackmann, Ernest August
Lackmann, John Chris D'h
La<1.ewig, Arthur Edward_
Lamp, Charles .Joachin
Large, Charles Franklin
Landis, Edward Caspar, P. M.
Lanfare, Clair Ford
Larsen, Anton Ludvig
Larsen, Bengt. John
Laurence, Arthur Cornwall
Lauritzen, Hans Peter
Leavitt, Albion Eastman

ROSTER
Leavitt, William Cowles
Lee, Albert Edward
Lee, Francis Valentine T.
Lee, Roy Abraham
Lee, William Grant
Leeman, Edgar Wilson
Leggat, William Alexander
Lehmers, Frederick Emil
J,ewis, Frank Rodman
Lilienthal, Ernest Ruben
Little, Matthew Alex.
Locksteadt, Louis
Long, Herbert Clifton
Loose, Charles John
Lovejoy, John Hinton
Low, George Beanston
Low, Josiah Orme
Lundy, Aaron Linton
Macarthur, Newbern Turner
Macbeth, Frank David
Macdonald, William, P. M.
Mace, Lewis Sayrie
Mackall, Benjamin ~ranklin
MacManus, Walter F.
Mallott, Watson Howard
Mauch, Herbert Andrew
Marsh, Louis Eugene
Marshall, Georbd Gordon Ear}
Mathis, Theophilus Smith
Martin, Alexander
Mathey, Robert Henry ·
McArthur, Willie D.
. McCahon, George
Mccurdy, Marcy
McCullough, John Summons
McDowell, Archibald Eugene
McEwen, John Jariline
McGahey, Robert ,Tames, Jr.
McGowan, Frank
·
McGowan, George ATden
McKinlay, James
McMahon, Cal. Clarke
McMurtry, Ralph Bertram
McNutt, William Fletcher
McNutt, William Fletcher, Jr.

ROSTER
MoRoskey, Edward Lawrence
Penniman, Charles Wood
McRoskey, Leonard Henry
Pernau, H enry Frank .
Morrill, Elijap Iied<ling
Peters, John Frederick Fr11 u i..
MerrHI, Horace Eugene
Peters, William
/\1errill, James William
Peterson, Frank Baltzer
Mlerdierks, William Augustus
Petersen, N es· Peter
Miles, David Edwin, P. M.
Pfeiffer, William Frederick
MUJer, Charles Nicholas
Phelps, Frederick Tracy
Miller, Joseph Alois
Philbrick, Everett David
Miller, R ichard Elgin
Philbrick, Walter Jacob
Millcr, Thurlow Sprague
Phillips, Robert Bonsall
Mill er, William Henry
Plummer, Walter Allen
Miller, William Penn
Poland, Wallace Jerome
Miller; William s.·
Poss, Frederick Henry
Mills, John Swinburne
Pratt, Othello Curtis
Mitchell, Edward Henry
Pratt, Zenas Campbell
Mitchell, William Edwin
Prellberg, Charles William
Moebus, Fred. William Gus., P. M. Prior, Clark Churchill
Moffatt, Walter Lindsay
Prior, John Lewis
Moore, Avard J osepb
Purdy, John Elbridge, P. l\J.
J\forrison, Charles John
Purlenky, George Carl
Morse, Albert Garrish
Quimby, Leon Shirley
Mor gens t ern, Alfred Louis
Quinn, William Henry
Mnller, Otto Bernhard
Radovich, Bozo
Murphy, Charles Henry, P. M,
Raisch, Fred
Myers, Robert Carling
Rees, William john
Mylchreest, Howard Quayle
Richards, Melvin Francis
Nagle, Alfred J'ohn
Richards, Stephen Henry
Newell, Eben Pool
Richardson, Walter Scott
Newman, Robert Edwin
Read, Emerson Worrell
Newman, William .
Robertson, John Harvey
Nish, Fred 'k Wm.
Robinson, Arthur
Norris, John Roosevelt
Robson, Chas. Edgar
Oakley, Edward Davin
Rogers, John Baxter
Olsen, Alfred
Rogers, William Augustus
Olsen, Frederick Henry
Rohlffs, Walter Vogt
Orcutt, William Henry
Rohrhand, Charles William
Osborn, Russell Wight
Romaine, William
Osborne, James Stuart
Root, George Washington
Osmunn, William Finley H.
Rosenau, Frank Leopold
Packham, Thomas George
Rosengarn, John Herman
Page, Frank William
Rumpf, Frank Joseph
Parker, Byron Cameron
Russ, Henry Stanford
Pattison, Charles Frederick
Russell, Lawrence Greenleaf
Penn, Charles Samuel
Sage, Orlando Gustavus

5l

52

ROSTER

ROS'l'ER

Stewart, Charles Alex..
Saleh, George Charles
Suter, Daniel
Samuels, Wm. Trimmer
Taylor, Howard Prentice, Jr.
Sanborn, William David
•r 'Beck, William
·
Savage, Michael Joseph, P. M.
Terwilliger, Newton Clark
Scheffauer, Walter Aloysius
Thaler~ Conrad Henry
,
Schieck, Charles Henry
'l'homas,
Edward
Jennings,
P.
M.
Schieck, ;Tohn Charles ·
Thompson, Joseph
Schinneller, John Harold
Thompson, Peter
Schmidlin, Martin Antone
Schmidt, Herman August Theodore Thornton, Bruce Patrick
Tibbey, Frederick Milton
Schnoor, Charles Otto
Tilton, Robert Fletcher
Schreiber, William Au. Martin
Tourney, George
Schwerin, Henry William
'l'rampleasure, Thomas Edward ·
Scott, Clarence Sydney
Travis, Edward Charles
Scott, George Mearns
Trevor, Henry
Scott, Shailer MacKintosh
Tucker, Edwin Stanley
Scott, Walter Day
'l'urner, Allison Howard
Seiferd, James Frederick
Turner, George Webster
Severs, Ernest Davies
Tyrrell, John Rowland
Shanabrook, William Stark
Tyson, Mitchell
Sharp, James Cohen
Tyson, Robert James
Sharpe, Edwin Clinton
Uglow, Arthur Whitburn
Sherman, Frank Potter
Ulrich, John Alvin
Shields, Frank Duncan
Upton, Thomas Bennett
Simpson, Henry Robert
Vail,
Robert Raymond, P. M.
Skinner, John Charles
Van Court, DeWitt Carroll
Sleeper, Charles
Vail, David Porter
Sloan, Albert Bevard
Vandercook, Albert Emerson
Smith, Francis William,
Van Winkle, Pierre S., Jr.
Smith, Grant Ward
Venable, Joseph Gibbon
Smith, .James Jerome
Volkhardt, Frederick August
Smith, William Alexander
Vradenburg, Preston Hickok
. Smith, William
Walker, Welter Gilbert
Snedaker, William Harvey
Wallace, John H.
Snook, James Athearn, P. M.
Waller, Charles Waite
Sonne, George Peter
Ward, John Emmett, Jr.
Sorenson, Charles Mads
Warren, William True
Southard, Carroll 0 'Brien
Watkins, William Hartley
Spotswood, William James
Webster, Henry John
Spriggs, Leon Walter
Webster,
John Henry
Squires, George DeForrest
Weeden, Henry Frank
Squires, Robert DeForrest
Wefring, John Gust
Stauffacher, Charle~ William
Weller, Charles Hoskins
Steiger, Louis A.
Wells, Robert Huntington
Stewart, Brandon

Wut, Frank A.
Wotjen, Cord
White, Jerome Baker
White, Roy Samuel
Wilcox, William Darius
Wlllett, Walter Marinus
Wllliams1 Charles Henry
Williams, Charles Frederick
Wl)liams, Oscar
Wllliams, William Alfred
Wilson, Boyd Lee
Wilson, Charles Woodworth
Wilson, Herman Fowler
Bull, Edgar Franklin
Bird, Henry
l•'ulrner, Walter Wilton

53

Wilson, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Wilson, Perley Harry La Vall
Wimmer, George Washington
Winterburn, Joseph
Wise, Robert Alma
Wise, Thomas Clark
Wiswell, Edward Smith
Wood, Floyd Humphrey
Wright, George Judson
Wrinkle, Ellery
Wrinkle, George Scott
Wrinkle, Noah
Woodlock, John, P. M.
-562

WITHDRAWN:
Howard, Douglas Carlton
Key, John Walter
Richardson, George Worth
Thompson, Walter Simeon

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Omharn, Robert Jackson
Miehling, George Sabastian
L11fitte, Jacquez de L.
Schouten, John Wesley
McArthur, Alexander
Stone, Walter Somers
Van Trees, Frank Sawyer
DIED:
lfonedict, Courtland Smith
Farnsworth, ,Julian Weaver
Baldwin, Edward Lewis
Hatt, Albert Edward
Dillman, George
Lawson, John Christian
l•Mson, Ben,jamin
Leach, George W anson
Spotswood, Robert Henry

MADISON LODGE, No. 23.
Grass Valley, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Davey, Master,
William Edwards, Chaplain,
Grass Valley.
Harry Libby Body, Sen. Deacon,
vVilliam John Peters, Sen. Warden, Samuel Joseph Whiting, Jun. Deacon,
Clarence Bertes Grenfell, Jun. Ward.,Bennet Opie, Marshal,
John Gals son, Treasurer,
John Richards Thomas, Steward,
William David Harris, Secretary,
Walter Marshall Matteson, Steward,
Grass Valley.
Richard Cady, Tylrr.

ROSTER

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Granger, Samuel
Andrews, 'J ames
Grenfell, Clarence Bertes
Angove, Jeremiah
Grenfell, William' John
Argall, Matthew Henry
Green, Henry
Argall, Matthew Whilkin, P. M.
Griffin, George
Argall, William John
Haas, Isidor
ArmRtrong, William Isiah
Hattam, Joseph
Aver, Frank, P. M.
Hicks, John
Bartell, J oserh
Harris, Elmer Mills
Bennallack, Jose.p h
Harris, William David
Berriman, William Samuel
Harris, Thomas Milton
Body, Harry Libby
Hooper, James
Body, William Christopher Dart
Hosking, Albert James
Brockington, Charles Aaron
Hutchins, Robert Jewett
Caddy, Richard
Ingram, Thomas, P. M.
Campbell, George
Johns, George Wallis
Care, Thomas John
Johnston, Peter
Chappell, George Edward
Jen kins, Alfred
Clinch, Charles Edward
Jenkin~, Jabez Arthur
Coflin, Oscar Lewis
•Johns, James Andrew
Coleman, Edwarn, P. M.
Jones, George Louis, P. M.
Coleman, John Crisp, P. M.
Jones, John Taylor
Condy, Horbert Richard
.Tones, Robert
Coombe, William, P. M.
Kemp, John Charlea
Cooper, Arthur
Kemp, Lorin William
Cowling, William
Kinsman, Alfred
Curnow, William
Kohler, Theodore A.
Daniels, Henry
Leatham, John Tonkin
Davey, John
Lord, William Goyne
Davies, David
Larue, Lloyd Palmer
Dawson, Isaac
Maddrill, Charles Edward
Dorsey, Samuel Packwood
Maddrill, James Henry
Drake, Raymond L.
Magor, Ellsworth
Ducotey, Frank
Martin, William Philip
Dunstan, William
Matteson, David Edwin
Edwards, William, P. M.
Matteson, Edwin Stanley
Evans, Thomas
Matteson, Walter Marshall
Frank, Robert John
Michell, Clifton Wesley
Fuchs, Carl Henry
Michell, Paul Wesley, P. M .
Fuchs, George, Henry
Michell, Thomas John, P. M .
George, Richard Henry
Miller, Fred Manning
+111>1'.q:e • .A ll:)ert Grant
Northway, John
Gill, Arthur Lyonel
Nettle, Charles .Henry
Glasson, John, P. M.

icholas, Isaac
Opie, Bennett, P. M.
Othet, Bert Wesley
Othet, Charles Franklla
l»ascoe, John Henry
l»eers, Joseph
1,eterson, Andrew Gustaf
Prisk, William Frederick
l'risk, Charles Henry
Prisk, Henry
Peters, William John
Richards, Edward .Ingram
Roberts, John Edward
Hodgers, Chas. Earl
Rogers, William James
Root, Orville Hurd,
Rowe, James Jenkin
Sears, Paul Stickney
Skewes,. Henry Burton
Sleep, William Albert
Smith, Charles B.
Flouthcott, William Henry

.stein, Isinor
Stoddard, George- Hill
Thomas, Frederick James
Thomas, John
Thomas, John, Jr.
Thomas, John Richards
'l 'homas, William
Tremoureux, Roy Eugene
Trewren, George Charles
Trotter, George Thomas
Tyrrell, James C.
Utley, C)larles Alva
Vincent, George
Walker, Henry Rollo
Werry, John
Whiting, Samuel Joseph
Williams, Joseph Edward
Williams, William Charle&
Williams, William Henry
Winn, William
Zaph, Carl H .
Zipf, John Philip

-130.

WITHDRAWN:
Gates, James Henry

Davies, Richard

Berriman, Thomas Henry
Hosken, William Henry

DIED:
Oliv'er, William Phillips
Phillips, John

MARIPOSA LODGE, No. 24.
Mariposa, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next precerling F r1!1 Moo1'1..
OFFICERS:

James P. McElligott, Master,
Frederick T. Schlageter, Sm, Deac.,
Mariposa, Cal.
Thomas ]. Ferguson, Jun. Deacon,
Frank H. Catherwood, Sen. Warden, Frederick W. Schlageter, Marshal,
Charles L. Boothe, Jun. Warden, William M. Brice, SteWard,
James Barnett, Treasi4rer,
Walter S. Farnsworth, SteWflrd,
Frank A. Bondshu, Secretary,
Tl omas Farnsworth, Tyler.
Mariposa, Cal.

56

ROSTER

ROSTER

M.EMBERS:
Hawkins, William D.
Austin, Henry Clay
Barnett, Jamee
Herbeck, Frank Leslie
Johns, Samuel ·J·oseph, l'. M.
Bennett, Frederick Lee, l'. M.
Bondshu, Frank Albert
Johns, Trevenen Jame~
Boothe, Charles Lemon
Jenkins, Richard May
Bragdon, Asa Barnum
Kinchen, Peter
Brice, William Manuel
Kenny, George Martin Francis •
Carleton, Henry Mathew
Kylberg, Larentius Adam C.H., l'. M.
Catherwood, Frank H. B.
Lind, Carl Gustaf, Jr.
Clark, Joseph
Ludwig, John Daniel
Cronin, Timothy Joseph
McEIIigott, James Patrick, l'. M.
Craighan, James Duffy, l'. M.
McLean, John Leonard
Champion, Stephen James
McLeod, John
Cavin, William Hayse
Minor, Harry Everett
Clow, Nelson Lawrence
Nice, George Ernest
Dullenty, Edward
Schlageter, Frederick Temple
Dunn, James Neil
Schlageter, Frederick William, l'. M.
Edwards, William Charles
Schilling, Frederick
Estes, Thomas Henry
Sharp, Lewis Walter·
Farnsworth; Thomas McCready
Towers, Jam es Howard
Farnsworth, Walter Scott
Trabucco, Frank Thomas
Ferguson, Samuel Hiles
Tretheway, John Thomas
Ferguson, Thomas James
Trewin, Peter
Foley, Daniel Joseph
Wallingford, Frank L.
Gibbs, Carl Scott
Wason, Edward Putnam, l'. M.
Gilbert, James Arthur
Westfall, Charles K.
-52
DIED:
Smith, William

llurry, Clifford Demoin
l>nlns, Benjamin J.
l)lohl, Sandford David, l'. M.
l)obbas, Herbert Bitatom
l)otti, Lodovico
lloodall, D. Fred
<Jordon, John Cummings
(Jrover, Harry Morris, l'. M.
(Jrover, Orrin Scripture
Grover, Walter Nevada
Grant, George Lincoln
Glasson, Josiah
llickman, William Simpson, l'. M.
Hamilton, John Sidney
llayden, Asia Thurston
Heuser, George Henry
.lauch, Walter Christian
.ferrett, Charles Edward, l'. M.
.Terrett, Herman D.
Johns, John
·
.Tohnson, Christopher G.

Langley, Charles Hilton
Lawyer, Frank Wilber
Lovejoy, Thatcher Townsend
Martin, Herbert Sargent, l'. M.
Presby, Alvin Moore, l'. M.
Priestley, Wilford Ernest
Peters, Benjamin Leon
Rodetti, Francisco
Rupley, Charles J.
Schulse, Chas.
Shepherd, Benjamin Franklin
Sturman, Sidney Grant
Stevenson, Thomas
Swift, Isaac Grinnell, l'. M.
Walk, James Francis
Wade, John, l'. M.
Ware, John Adrian
White, Albert Clarence
White, Louis, l'. M.
Wickander, Victor Hugo
Wood, William James
-52

WITHDRAWN:
Fredericks, William

Kaiser, Samuel

Meyers, Lewis Lane
DIED:
Noble, Robert
Peaslee, Isaac

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25.

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 26.

Georgetown, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Mooa.

Placerville, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

Allen, Robert Henry
Beattie, Christopher
Beattie, William G.
Benjamin, Clinton Elisha
Barbee, Charles Platt

MEMBERS:
Breck, Charles Remerick
Bryson, William Henry
Buckman, William Alvin, l'. M.
Collins, Samuel Wesley
Cozard, Oscar Al.

57

OFFICERS:

Don H. Goodrich, Master,
Robert Pagan Patterson, Chaplain,
Placerville, Cal.
Frank Edwin Simon, Sen. Deacon,
Jacon Lyman Meighbor, Sen. Ward., William Sherman Kirk, Jun. Deacon,
Otto Elymis Newcomb, Jun. Ward., Albert Simon, Marshal,
Shelly Inch, Sr., Treasurer,
Thomas Fielding Lewis; Steward,
Charles Henry Weatherwax, Sec,. Wm. Herbert Combellack, Steward,
P. 0. Box 517, Placerville, Cal.
John Pascoe, Tyler.

58

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Alderson, Richard
Cole, Henry Angus
Alderson, Stephen Thomas
Collins, Walter Eugene, P. M.
Allen, Henry Francis
eombellack, William
Allen, John Page
Combellack, William Herbert
Arnot, Nathaniel Dubois
Cook, Earl Lewis
Ashcroft, Henry
Cooper, William
Atwood, Theodore Charles, P. M. Cote, Phileas.
Baebe, Martin
Creighton, James Samuel
Ball, Albert
Creighton, James William
Banning, Andrew Course
Culbertson, Frank Andrew
Barkley, James
Curran, Valentine
Barr, Max
DeCordy, John
Barss, Frederick Ferdinand, P. M. Daniels, Leo
Duff, Charles Joseph
Beach, Seth Gibbs, P. M.
Beal, Ray Carroll
Duncan, Albert Henry
Bechtel, Warren A.
Dunton, Charles Henry
Blair, James Blackwood
Dart, !Jeorge Charles
Blair, John McFarland
Davis, EU.ward Albert
Blair, Robert
Day, John Martin
Blair, Robert William
Day, Robert Newton
Blakeley, Auburn James
Dennison, Harry Talbot
Blakeley, George Lincoln
Duden, William Calvin
Bland, William
Ewert, Emil
Board, James
Fisher, Frederick William
Bosquet, Dallas Archibald
Fitch, Oscar Plank
Boyd, Thomas Parker
Fox, Albert Sherman
Brooks, Adam
Franklin, John Henry
Brown, William Marcellus
Frick, Walter P~ul
Burger, Charles Murray
Gee, Frederick William, P. M
Burnham, George Huntington, P. M.Geiger, William Louis
Butts, Lowery Taylor
Greeley, Albert Henry
Campini, James Girlocomo
Gruben, Bernard
Campini, James William
Goodrich, Don H.
Campini, Joseph Albert
Hand, Charles Edward
Cain, Lemuel Barnett
Hardie, Thomas Oswald
Carpenter, Albert Bert
Harris, Richard Corey
Carr, .Daniel George
Heiser, Joseph
Cello, Carlo Gueseppe
Henderson, Alexander Duncan
Cla}bourne, Robert King, P . M.
Hoffman, George B.
Clark, George Murray
Hofmeister, George
Clark, Thomas
Hogan, John Keeler
Cleese, John Peter
Hogan, Philip Barringer
Coffin, Oliver
Hughes, Marshall
Cole, George Thomas
Hungerford, Frank Mason

;ROSTER
Ortman, Fred
l11ch, Shelley, Sr., P. M.
Pascoe, John
Inch, Shelley ~)., · Jr.
Patterson, Robert Pagan, P. M.
,l ones, A dial .S abin .
Pearson, John, P. M.
,Jones, John Charles
Pearson, William Rose, P. M.
,Jones, William Albion
.Perryman, Frederick William
.luckes, Thomas Patrick
Peters, Clarence Edward
I< incaid, George Henry
.Pierroze,
Ferdinand
Kirk, William Sherman
Pin~eo, Oscar Elgin
Koletzke, Arthur James, P. M.
Plummer, Howard Clark
Kohn, Nathan Leopold
Price, William Eugene
Kyser, James Peter, P. M.
Rafl'etto,. Frank
La Rue, John Samuel
Raffetto, John Augustus
Lewis, Thomas Feilding, P. M.
Rantz, Stephen Hester, P. M.
Limpinsel, John Frederick
Rantz, William Addison
Littlepage, Julius Brown
Rayburn, Charles
Mack, George Franklin, P. M.
Richards, Charles Thomas
MacKenzie, William Ernest
Richards, James
MacLeod, Wm. Alex.
Richards, William James
Macomber, David Wheeler. P. M.
Reeg, Louis Adam, P. M.
Mann, Oscar Arthur
Rolleri, George Charles
Martin, Frederick Courier
Robles, Oscar
Martin, Fred Michael
Routledge, William Henry
Mauk, George Washington
Rupley, John Bernard
Mayer, Michael
Rupley,
Theodore
McAfee, Alexander Lewis
Sands, Jesse
McCarty, Thomas Emmett
Scheiber, Louis John
McCommas, Francis Marion
Schroeder, Carl Herman
McCoy, William Augustus ·
Scott, Elmer Livenstone
McKay, Jamee Alfred
Sheldon, Henry Bradley
McKee, Joseph .Fulton
McLaughlin, James Michael, P. M. Simon, Albert, P. M.
Simon, David Samuel
Meehan, Marcellus Quintin
Simon, Frank Edw.i n
Mierson, Max, P. M.
Smith, Edward Lamar
Miller, John Wesley
Smith, John Adam
Miller, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Stark, Garrett William
Morey, Ed~ard Lea, P. M.
Stinson, William Harrison
Morey, Frank Henry
Streeter, George Washington
Morey, Henry Sylvester
Strachauer, Edward Harrel
Morton, Oliver Leonard
Sumner, William Henry
Mund, Frank
Swisler, Charles Albert
Murray, Thomas Aloyious
Tacchino,
Vincenzo
Neighbor, Jacob Lyman
Tracy, H enry Hardie
Newcomb, Otto Elymis
Tracy, Perry Spencer
Olmst.ead, Sheldon Patterson
Ure, Georgfl Murray
Owen, Joseph ·Frederick

59

60

ROSTER

ROSTER

Valkman, Alfred Arthur
Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Varozza, Giacomo
Varozza, Marco
Waters, John Nicholls
Watt, Peter
Weatherwax, Charles Henry
Webb, Jean Francis, Jr.
Werntz, Gabriel
Weymouth, Stephen James
Purcell, Benjamin Albert

Weyman, William
Whitney, James Palache
Whittier, William Jeremiah
Wiley, John James
Wilkin, Fred L.
Wilson, Stephen Britton
Wires, Albert Melville
Witmer, Elam Washington
Young, Perly Andrew
-197

WITHDRAWN :
Walling, Horace Herbert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kern, John Edward

Mason, John Clifton, P. M.
McDonald, Robert Emmet
McGilleoray, Joseph
Meckel, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Meckel, John Weinheimer
Mortimer, Washington
Paulsen, Albert Lincoln
Paulsen, Arthur Edwin
Paulsen, Charles
Paulsen, Henry William
Paulsen, Peter Minert
Reed, Benjamin Haytlen
Condon, William

Shuford, John William
Smith, Jeremiah
Testy, Wm. Bernard
Tourtellotte, Jesse Francis
Van Matre, George
Van Matre, John Chandler
Vollmers, William
Wilson, Chas. Samuel
Wilson, James
Young, William Ware
Zarli, Frederick

DIED:
Lowden, William Spencer

DIED:
Avausino, Nicola

GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30.

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month,
Odd Fellows' Bldg., 7th and Market Sts.

Weaverville, Trinity County.
Stated Meetings, last Saturday of each month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBER:S:
Ackerman, John Quincy, P. M.
Gehm, George Frederick
Barnickel, Bernard
Given, Horace Robert
Box, Reuben Preston
Goetze, Henry William
Brady, Morris Augustus
Goetze, William Adolph
Bremer, John Henry
Goodyear, Charles Eugene
Bremer, August Frederick
Haas, Frederick Gotlieb
Burr, Huber
Haas, Otto Bismark
Carter, Robert Lee, P. M.
Halfl.ey, Frederick Huston
Chamberlain, Clarence Adelbert
Hall, Henry Maurice
Cummings, Robert Fulton
Hansen, Detlef, P. M.
Dannenbrink, William Frederick
Hays, Hiram Bennett
Davis, Griffith T.
qupp, James Wiley
Dimock, Frank Leslie
Hupp, William Irving, P. M.
Edwards, William Rose
Hollingsworth, Frank Orvill1>
Fetzer, Albert John
Leyrer, George Edward
Fields, David Blackstone
Lowden, Henry Larkin, P. M.
Flagg, Jacob ;Redding
Leonard, Henry William

ti!

OFFICERS:
Paul Robert Bjick, Master,
Theodore Hall Macdonald, Chaplain,
244 Clinton Park.
William Peter Caubu, S en. Deacon,
Richard James Harvey Forbes, S. W. Robert Wentworth Dewar, Jun. Deac.,
Lester Adam Blair, Jun. Warden,
Maurice Armand Gale, Marshal,
Charles Augustus Wegener, Treas., David Hugh Burson, Steward,
Edwin Lewis Meyer, Secretary,
Oscar Robert Waldemar Krenz, Stw.,
53 Webster Street.
Horace Frederick Tower, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackerman, Charles Herman
Anderson, Andrew
Adams, Fred Thomas
Antlerson, Carl
Adcock, Charles Edmund
Antlerson, Frederick
Agard, William Antoine Todd, P. M.Anderson, Harvey Derious
Ahlquist, Frans Wiktar
Anderson, Herman
Aigeltinger, Edward Hugo
Anderson, Kenneth Pendleton
Airey, Robert Joseph, P. M.
Anderson, Roy Robert
Aitken, James
Antlrews, Lewis Titcomb
Alberts, Carl
Ard, Edwarcl James
Allen, Joseph William Everett
Armes, George Arthur
Allison, Thomas Sydney
Arnold, Fred Thomas
Ambler, Ben, Jr.
Aspe, John William
Andersen, Charles
Atkinson, John Robert

ROSTER
Baar, James Lausen
Backus, Charles
Bain, Robert Thurston
Baird, Frederick Guernsey
Baker, John Saunders
Barnes, Charles Thomas
Barnes, Joshua Daniel
Beardsley, Edwin Willis
Beaulieu, Ezra
Beck, John Elof
Beckett, Hugh Reid
Bennett, James Henry
Bensen, Sigurd
Berg, Gustave ·
Bergman, Adolph
Bernhard, John
Bjick, Paul Robert
Blair, Lester Adam
Blakeway, John Henry
Bleie, John Arneson
Bluhm, William George
Blyth, Henry, Jr.
Blyth, William John
Bolger, James
Bolio, Atilio Peter
Born, Ernest Otto
Born, Julius Adolph Theodore
Bowen, Charles
Brackett, George Francis
Brady, Edward Robert
Breckenridge, William JamieBon
Brierley, James
Bronaugh, Frank Marshall
Brown, Horace Bernard
Brown, Sidney Thomas
Browne,. William James
Brum:field, William Cleney
Brunig, Robert ·
Brust, Joseph Peter
Bullock, Fred Duncan
Bundesen, Boy
Burnham, Francis Mortimer
Burson, David Hugh
Cairns, John Thorburn
Canney, Frederick Gilmore

Cantin, Alexander Aimwoll
Cantley, James
Carlsen, Axel Theouore
Carlson, Otto Wilhelm
Carnegie, John
Carr, Jesse Willis
Caubu, William Peter
Chapman, Walter Scott
Christian, Caesar
Clark, George Dickson
Clarke, Samuel Andrews, P . M.
Uobby, John Wilmott
()ol!ins, William Webb
Compagnon, Fred Pet~r, Jr.
Cook, Aaron
Cook, Benjamin Franklin
Cook, Philip Henry
Uooke, Mac Duff
(Jopeland, William
Cosgrave, John Paul
Coulter, George Bartley
Craig, David John
Craig, Theodo.re Leonidas
Craig, William Henry
Cramer, Martin Luther
Cumming, Joseph Moore
Dabel, Richard
Daggett, John
Dahl, Charles William
Dahl, John Martin
Dahlquist, John
Dahlstedt, Adrian Frithiof
Damkroeger, Daniel August
Danielson, Eric
Dannemark, Ge.orge Herman
Davidson, Henry Wood Johnston
Davis, ,John Fletcher
Deans, William
DeCew, Thomas Leslie
Deckert, Max· Ernest
Deegan, John Joseph
DeLamare, August Jacques
Delano, Louis Everett
DeLisle, Raymond Frank
Dewar, Robert Wentworth

ROSTER
l>lckieson, James Edward
Dickson, William
Dormer, John Monteith
Dorward, David, Jr.
Duebel, Charles August
Duncan, William Cluff
Dunne, Francis Henry
Earle, Slade Anthony, P. M.
Eastwick, Philip Garrett, Jr.
Eggerstedt, William
Elliott, Hamilton Scholes
Everding, John
:fisher, Albert George
Fisher, Owen Frank
Flagler, Amasa Plummer, P. M.
Flanery, 'rhomas Franklin
Fogalsang, Thomas Edwin
Fogerty, Joseph
l!~oord, James
Forbes, Richaru James Harvey
Foster, William Sinclair
Fredericksen, Hans Rasmus
Freese, Harry Francis
F1·eeso, Herman
Freese, Joseph Chris Han
Fritschi, Alfred Rudolph
Fullerton, Darwin Phelps
Furman, Lawrence Magnus
Gale, Maurice Armand
Galvin, James Francis
Gardiner, William George
Garratt, Benjamin Franklin
Garrick, Walter James
Uenereaux, Victor Henri
Gilberd, Frederick Murray
Gilmour, John Alan
Glidden, Arthur Lee
Glunz, John Benjamin
Goddard, George Henry
Good, Richard
Goodall, Harry Walter
Gorham, Henry Franklin
Graham, John Neil
Gray, Madison Lee
Green, John Frederick

Greene, Watson Hatch
Grubb, Joseph Richards
Guderley, Paul
Guptill, Charles Baxter
Guthrie, James
Hague, Charles John
Haley, Franklin Raymond, P. M.
Hamilton, Charles Jonn
Hammond, Frank
Hammond, Hugh William
Hanell, William
Hansen, George Jorgen
Hansen, Ole Mehrten
Haviside, John Joseph, .Tr.
Hawes, Talton
· Hayes, William Thornton
Hedley, John
Hein, Theouore Hansen
Helbig, John
Henderson, Harry Milne
Henderson, Thomas Ray
Henrix, Edward
Herda!,· George Johannasen
Hermansson, Charles Adolf
Hernan, Michael Howard
Herrington, Howard
Hetty, Julius Finck
Herner, August Ferdinand, P. M.
Hildebrand, Henry Bernharu
Hilsenberg, Kurt Hans
Hilton, James
Hodgkinson, Albert Thomas
Hoffman, Robert Ogden
Hoffmann, William Henry
Hofinghoff, Walter Alexander
Holm, Louis Robert
Holman, William Lewis
Holme&, Paul Henry
Horgan, Cornelius John
Howell, Edward Henry
Hubbard, Charles
Hubbell, Leroy Samuel
Hulings, Burton Fisher
Humphreys, James Holroyrl. :r.. M.
Hunsicker, Jeremiah Emanuel

64

ROSTER

ROSTER

Hunter, Thomas
Hutchins, Day Selden
Hyvarinen, John Walfrid
Jackson, .Andrew Fletcher
Jackson, John Farren
.Tacobsen, Niels
Jensen, Neils Peter
Johnsen, JJaurits
Johnson, Abraham Wallace
.Tones, Cliff Lowell
Jones, Thomas
Jorgensen, Carl Johan Emil
Jorgensen, Jor11:en Michael
Jorgensen, Waldemar Sophos Emil
Julius, John Michael
Karstensen, John
Kent, Samuel Henry, P. M .
Kindt, Albert Fred 'k
King, Arthur Clyde
Kingston, James Jervis
Kitchen, .Tobn, Jr.
Kitchen. William Mortimer
Klein, Frederick
Knief, GeoTj;(e Ernest
Koch. Wehner August
Koffold, Peter Mathias
Korner, Geor11:e Henry
Krenz, Oscar Robert Waldemar
Kuckert, Louis Henry
Kyle, Abraham
La11:omarsino, Louis Andrew
Laing, Robert
Lange, William
Langstaff, William John
Lann, Oscar
Larsen, John Luilwig
Larson, Claus August
LeGal, Clarence Lindsay
Leonard, Francis Joseph
Leonard, John Buck
Leslie, Andrew Thomas
Levach, Alexander
T,inilberg, Knut Willhelm
f;;nRle:v. William Eilwaril
Little, George EdwaTil

Little, James Edgar
Littlefl.el<l, Frank Peters
Long, Joseph Rice
Louw, Henry Andre~
Luebbert, Fred'k Johan
Luhrs, Carl August
Luhrs, Elmo Krone
Ludwig, Anton John
Lund, Soren Sorensen
Lutticken, Louis John
Lutz, Charles August
Macdonald, Theodore Hall, P. M.
Mackintosh, William Crawford
Macondray, Robert Arthur
MacFarlane, Neil
MacMillen, Robert Samuel
Marisch, Frank Paul
Martin, Robert Elmer Ellsworth
Mason, Will Dodge
Matthai, Frederick William
Mccaw, Anthony
Mccaw, Thomas Scandrett
McClelland, John
McClements, John
McConnell, Gibson
McCulloch, John Edward
McDonald, Patrick Alexander
McElroy, Joseph Francis
McGarrity, Donald Dennie
McGrath, Edward
Mcintosh, Lachlan
McKay, David McPherson
McKinnon, Norman
McKinnon, William Wilson
McLeod, Angus
McMillan, California Charles
McNally, Frank Lawrence
MeNally, James Joseph
McPherson, John Murdoch
Mearns, Frank William
Mearns, James
Mendler, Charles
Mengel, Albert Louis
Menke, Harry ,John Louis
Merrill, Albert Henry

Meyer, Edwin Lewis, P. M.
Michaelis, Julius
Mikkelsen, Christen Peter
.\filler, George Raymond
Miller, John Henry
Moller, Erdmann Leopold
Montecchini, Mario
Montell, Edgar Henderson
Montell, Henry Hamil~on
Morgan, Elisha
Morgan, Hamilton ·
Morose, Thomas Victor
Morris, Edward Thomas
Moses, William Schuyler, P. M.
Mueh, ·walter George
Muirhead, John Scott
Yfunro, Alexander Duncan
Munson, Nicholas Frederick
Murrell, John James Guy
Naghel, Louis Henry
Neubarth, John Julius
Ni.col, Thomas Matthew
Nicoll, Alexander
Nielsen, Cliristian Wilhelm
Noonan, John Hayes
Nopander, Louis Nicolas
Norton, Charles Franklin
Nygran, Anton William
Odgers, Joseph Ernest
Olson, John Petter
Otzen, George
Owens, Robert Ologher
Palmer, George Franklin
Parks, Charles LaSalle, P. M.
Parks, John
Parks, Rollie River
Parks, Yuba River
Patterson, James, P. M.
Patterson, John Fargo
Paulson, John Nicholas
Payne, Redmond Wellington
Pearson, Albert
P el ton, Hazlitt Lee
P ennington, Thomas
5

fi5

Perry, Harry Guy
Peters, Joseph Vincent
Petersen, Gustav Hermann Christian
Petersen, Jacob
Peterson, Carl Harvey
Peterson, Fritz
Phelps, Asa Hosmer, P. M.
Phelps, Frank Augustus
Phillips, Robert Pleace
Pratt, Augustus David
Prince, Fred Munro
Puckett, George Robert
Putnam, Kingman Buforci
Putz, Armand
Raabe, Leonhardt Stangle
Ravn, Niels Peter
Reeil, Henry
Reese, Evan Leander
Reinhold, Bruno Richart!
Renwick, Charles Almon
Rice, Peter Christian
Ripperdan, Oswell Thoma&
Roberts, Adelbert Even
Robortson, George
Robertson, William Milne
Robinson, Charles
. Robinson, Richard Gregory
Robinson, Victor Hugh
Roeder, August Edwart
Rogers, Randall
Rose, Charles Hugh
Ruling, Charles
Rulfs, Theodore Eberhard
Rushton, Alfred John
Rushton, Frederick Arthur
Salvesen, Reier
Sanches, Gardner Gilman
Sanders, William Rickard
Saxe, Robert Edward
Scheel, Conrad
Schlitter, George Alexander
Schmidt; Christian Peter
Schmidt, Edward
Schmidt, Karl Christian

66

ROSTER

Thompson, Frank Webster
Schulken, Walter Herbert
Thompson, William Wallace, P. M.
Schumacher, August
Thomsen, Halfdan Crone
Schuur, John Henry
'l'homson, Harvey King
Schwab, Edwin
Thornberg, Antone Fredetiek
.Scoby, John Carl
Thun, Henry Bernhard
Seagrave, Joh.n Carpenter
Toft, Arthur Christensen
Semple, Howson Cox
Shade, Widenham Daniel Cuthbert Toft, Chris Peter
Toft, Neal C,h ristensen
Shaw, Stephen Browne
Torrey, Stanley
Sherman, Frank Bentz
Tower; Horace Frederick
Siem, Cornelius
Trebell, Thomas
Sicsbuttel, Alexander
Trumbull, Lyman Frank
Silvia, William Collons
Turner, Ellerson Mallery
Simmie, Albert Tait
'!'way, Ephraim Foster
Simmons, Benjamin Cromwell
Usher, John Raymond
Simmons, Samuel Darrow
Vance, George Prescott, P. M.
Skelly, Jam es Henry, P. M.
VanCleve, John Thompson
Skoonberg, Arthur Edwin
Vega, Frank Abraham
Smith, Charles William
Venker, Henry Hermann
Smith, Henry
Vogel, Solomon .Tohn
Smith, John Henry
Von Rusen, John Henry
Smith, Robert Neil
Von Rusen, William
Smith, Walter Henry
Wagner, Charles August William
Smith, William John
Wale, George
Smith, William Magnus
Wall ace, Thomas
Smith, William Wands
Walsh, GeorgP. Charles
Sorensen, Albert Henry
Washburn, George Benj. McClelland
Sorensen, Emil
Watson, Harry
Sorensen, James Amlersen
Weed, Mark Dye
Sorensen, Soren Marius
Weeden, George Arnold
Southard, Frank Davirl
Wegener, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Squires, William Dunning
Weikert, Clarence Edgar
Stark, David
Wenzell, William Theodore
Strandberg, Charles
West, James
Streather, .Tamos George
Whitelaw, Thomas Potaro Herrichas
Stroecker, George Leopold
Wickersham, John Worth
Struve, Henry Knighton
Wilkie, Malcolm Darroch
Stryker, Charles Walter
Williams, Richard Griffiths Cadwalder
Stuart, Frank Hayden
Willis, William Bayard
Stuhr, Wallace Edgar
Sullivan, Abraham Sinclair, P. M. Wilson, Arthur Latta
Sutherland, John William Mitchell Wilson, Harley Payton
Witmer, Gottlieb
Tanner, Carl Eugene
Wohler, John Frederick Hermann
Teall, Edward Oliver
Woodworth, Marshall Borel
Thomas, William

ROSTER
Word, William Wallace, Jr.
Young, Allen Edward
Worden,· Walter Le Roy
Young, Robert Nicholles
Workman, Robert Jones
Young, Walter Henry
Wright, George William, Jr.
Zeh, George Henry
Wright, William George, P. M.
Zimmermann, Geo. Adam
Wright, William Quinby
WITHDRAWN:
,\ brams, Perey Charles
Miner, Clark Davis
~f iJJs, Walter Enos
Newton, George William
Nielsen, Peter

67

-486

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sarrins, John Rudolph
EXPELLED:
Hindle, William Henry
DIED:
Cameron, Wallace Davenport
Jorgensen, Niels Frederick Daniel
( '.nristie, Robert
Kidston, William
l~kstrom, Frank.
Little, William Tell
llitchfield, John Gordon
Nightingale, John
[ vcrson, Niels
Rice, James Truelson
Tomasini, Henry Richard

GOLD HILL LODGE, No. 32.
Lincoln, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fuli Moon.
OFFICERS:
\V m. Mart in Sparks, Jr., Master,
James Edward Wyatt, Sen. Deacon,
Lincoln, Cal.
Walter Jansen, Junior Deacon,
Marcus Thomsen, Se11ior TVarden, Hans Paulsen Jansen, Marshal,
Albert Chas. Fleming, Jun. Ward ., Wm. Martin Sparks, Steward,
.'\.lbcrt Jas. Gladding, Treasurer,
Frank Messner, Steward,
J oh n Goy, Secretary,
James Wyatt, Tyler.
Lincoln, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Davis, Frederic!.< Calvin, P. M.
Adams, Lorenzo Dow
Fleming, Albert Charles
A.hart, Henry Whitley
Frederick, Henry David
Beermann, Charles Fritz
Frederick, Morris Huse
Bickford, John Herbert
l!,uller, Clarence Ric)).ard
Blackie, Anthony McClellen
Fuller, Richard Nelson
Bulson, Charles Hermon, P. M.
Grey, Galusha
Crosby, Fred Chase
Gladding, Albert Jamea,' P. M.
Ohristiensen, John Peter N.
Croly, James
Gladding, Charles

ROSTER

ROSTER

68

DIED:
Harper, Thomas Burrill

Manuel, Raymond T.
Schachten, Joseph
Moran, ·Thomas John, P. M
Sloan, Orceneth Fisher
Solari, Bastiano
Morley, John T.
Steinberg, Edward A.
McKown, Charles .L.
McQuig, Alexander May
Shannon, James Edward, P. M.
Schwoerer, Emil ·
Malaspina, Antone
Mitchler, Frank Alexander, P. M . Schwoerer, Fred
Smith, Wm. Wright
Nuner, Charles Glov,er ·
Thomas, Geo. L.
Poe, Adam W.
Thomas, William, Jr.
Poe, James Thomas
True, Edward Lewis
Prothero, Edward, P. M.
True, George Lewis, P. M.
Raggio, Ernest
Wells, Leo. ·B.
Raggio, Richard
Williams, Hugh Price
Ross, Elias Elam
Wilson, George Bertram
Roberts, Owen
Zugar, Archibald
Stephens, Benjamin
Stephens, James Moses
-nil
WITHDRAWN:
Harris, Henry

OPHIR LODGE, No. 33.

'DIED:
Poole, William

Gerber, John, P. M.
Goy, Charles
Goy, John
Haenny, John, P. M.
Hartwick, Robert Charles
Handling~ Thomas
Hislop, James White
Huffaker, James Robert
Hughes, William
Jansen, Walter, P. M.
Jansen, Hans Paulsen, P. M.
Landis, John Bartle
Lehe, Eugene David Noah
Livingstone, John Alexander
Hill, John Albert

69

Michael, Martin
Missner, Frank
Olsen, Charles Sorensen
Pemberton, George Francis, "?. M.
Pemberton, John Wilmer
Roberts, William Ewing
Sparks, Edmond Jones, P. M
Sparks, William Marti!!.
Sparks, William Martin, Jr.
!:landers, Frank Long
Thomsen, . Marcus
Van Dyke, Francis Marrian
Wyatt, James
Wyatt, James Edward, P . M .
-46

WITHDRAWN:
'rhomas, Robert

Murphys, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank W.' Fish, Master,
Emory Jenkins. $en. De11co11,
Murphys, Cal.
Dave Eltringham hm. Deaco·1,
........................................, Sen. Ward., John Fisher, Marshal,
John T . Morley, Junior Warden,
Edward Prothero, Steward,
Mathew H. Manuel, Treasurer,
Grover Fisher, Steward,
John A. Manuel, Secretary,
James E. Shannon, Tyler.
Murphys, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Avery, Morton Peter
Fischer, John
Batten, Frederick
· Garland, Warren Nathaniel, J;', M.
Batten, Henry
Gilmore, John Henry
Bunney, John
Harrington, Oscar Daniel
Cline, Andrew
Heard, John Henry, P. M.
Copella, David
Holland, John E.
Castruccia, Augustine
Howard, George A., P. M.
Driver, David Barkie, P. M.
Jenkins, Emory W.
Darr, Ferdinand
Jenkins, William Henry
Eltringham, Dave
Langford, James T.
Fahl, Lewis Winslow
Lesagga, John
F isk, Frank Willis, P. M.
Manuel, John, P . M.
Fischer, Glover
Manuel, Mathew Henry

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35.
San Diego, San Diego County.
.stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Hampton Nichols, Master, Egbert Carroll Bangs, Chaplain,
310 Am. Nat. Bnk. Bldg., San Diego.Rainsford Wetmore Belding, S. D.,
Edgar Bernard Levi, Sen. Warden, DeRoy Saum, Junior Deacon,
David Albert Loebenstein, Jun. W., Peter John Piepenbrink, Marshal,
Frederick Arnold Schneider, Treas., John Franklin West, Steward,
Charles William Partridge, Sec.,
Frederick William Reif, Steward,
P. 0 . Box 661, San Diego.
Arthur Burton Haxton, Tyler.
Akerman, John Sutherland
Allen, William Wallace
Anderson, Bert Alfred
Arey, Lewis Melbourne
Armstrong, John Emanuel
Arnold, Charles Elmo
Arnold, Gilbert Conger, P. M.
Arnold, Leroy Henry
Arnold, Mott Hunter

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Raymond Lacey
Averbeck, George
Bach, Geo. Jacques
Bailey, Theodore 0.
Baker, Wilbur Sampson
Baldwin, Hugh John
Balentine, Arthur Trumbo
Ballou, George Henr:r
Bangs, Egbert Carroll, P. M.

70

Barkley, James T.
Beall, Edward Morse
Beamer, Peter Walter, P. M
Belcher, Frank J., Jr.
Belding, Rainsford Wetmore
Belding, Sanford Whitefield
Beermaker, George Wilson
Bennett, Ira Edgar
Benson, Axel Herman
Benton, Henry Clay
Betz, Jacob
Biewener, August Henry
Bihler, John Adam
Blackmer, John Keep, 1 P. M.
Blackmore, Harold James
Bledsoe, Henry Rufus
tilochrnan, Abraham
Blo<ihman, Lucien A.
Boaz, John Irving
Bortzmeyer, John Frederick
Boulden, Edwin Welsey
Bowers, Clarence W.
Bowers, William Wallace, P. M.
Boyd, James Alexander
Bradt, Horace
Breese, Robert
Brust, Samuel
Bryan, Solon
Buchan, James Dexter
Budlong, David Harry
Bullong, John George
Burden, Frederick Daniel
Burks, Paul Dore
Burnell, Barker
Burnham, Henry Clifford
Burnham, John, P. M.
Burwell, William John
Cabler, Albert Nelson
Cage, Alva Douglas
Campbell, Edward Lewi11
Capps, Eugene EUeworth
Casey, Patricius Harvey
Cash, James Garrett
Cavalier, John Chu1es
Chalmera, William Franklin
Chambers, Claude Llewellyn

ROSTER
Choate, Rufus
Christensen, Christian Andreas ·.
Clark, Harry
Clarkson, Henry Whitfield
Ulements, Gustavus C.
Colburn, Walter Maurice
Collier, David Charles, Jr.
Collins, l<'red
Uollins, Huber Asa
Comly, Harry Seykora
Comly, Harry Retzer
Comly, James Retzer
Colton, George Wood
Conrad, Grant
Cosgrove, Arthur
Croghan, Herbert Anson, P. M.
Dannals, George Mifflin, P. M.
Dauer, Charles Rudolph
Davidson, Frank Pierce
Davidson, Isaac Tobiash
Davies, Edgar George
Day, Joshua Davis
Day, Percey Litchfield
Derbyshire, Albert L.
Dill, .Burt Freeman
Dillon, Harry Edwin
Doig, Robert Leeper
Doolittle, Herbert Elliott
Douden, Alvin Norman
Downing, John Hyatt
Elga!l!!er, Charles Frank
Evans, Louis Joseph
Fay, William Andrew
Feekings, Hubert Gordon
Fitch, Herbert R.
Fleming, Melville Hynson, P. M.
Forward, John Tarn
Fos, Willard Newell
Foster, John
Fowler, Morton Barzillai
Fox, Samuel Isaac
Frank, Amos Reed
Frantz, Hen·ry
Fredericks, John Cla.us
Frevert, William Lewis
Fry, George Ulysses

ROSTER
Furnald, Frederick Henry Clay
Fussell, John Hall
Uandy, Newton St. Clair
Oates, Jam es lleur7
Gibbs, Albert Nelson
Gilbert, Alfred Hyde, P. M
Gillrup, Walter
Glasson, William Jenninga
Goldbaum, Simon
Goldtree, Morris Nathan
Goldtree, Sydney A.
Good, Chas. Long
Goodwin, Percy Henry
Gould, Elwyn Blaine, Jr.
Graham, Melancthon Adam, P. M.
Grandjean, Arthur
Griffes, James Hartness
Guibord, Thomas
Guyett, Wm. Walter
Habel, Theo. Ellsworth
Hackett, Samuel Warren
Hagaman, Albert Dennis
Hage, Williard B.
Hadley, Ephraim Wilson
Halstead, William Alexander
Hansson, Jonas
Harland, Wilfred Charles
Harper, James Stevenson
Harrell, Thomas .A..
Hawley, Joseph Noah
Hearne, Joseph Carter
Hedstrom, Gustave Edward
Heilbron, Carl Henry, P. M.
Heilbron, Fred 'k Adolph
Herz, Albert
Hetzel, J·ohn Julius
HickmJm, Ernest C.
Hill, George Vernon
Hinkle, Edward Cunningham
Hinton, John Brundridge
Hizar, Julier Clyde
Holbrook, Elliott
Holbrook., Howard Edward
Holliday, Alex. Gaillard
Holmes, George
Holzner, Frank Xavier

Hugo, Leopold
Huff, Herbert L., P. M.
Huitt, Charles E.
Humphrey, Thomas Henry
Hunt, Allan Franklin
Hunt, Nathan
Hylund, Charles John
Ibanez, Jose Marquez
Irwin, William
Jackson, Frederick William
Jackson, Harvey Nelson
Jacobs, Abe
Jameson, William
Jarvis, William Hollis
Jefferis, Frank Dodgson
Jenks, Ernest
Jennison, John Egbert
Jepsen, Hans Peter
Jessop, Alollzo De
Johnson, Fenton Molyneut
Johnson, Perle Marion
Jollymore, Mark
Joncas, Frank Xavier
Jones, Florin Leslie, P. M.
J ones1 Henry Harrison
Josselyn, Charles Lewis
Julian, Archibald Huston
Kaplan, Louis
Keil, Louis Ernest
Kindler, Albert
Kendall, Oscar J osiah
Kent, Lewis Edgar
Kettner, William, P. M.
Kirby, Lewis Reginald William
Kressmann, Charles Frederiek
Krueger, Fred
Laing, Oscar
Lamb, Frank Karl
Lamb, Markolet Richards
Lambert, John Willis
Landis, Harry Melancthon
Lapp, John Frederick
Lawrence, John D., P. M.
Lea, Frederick Deputy
Leisenring, Peter S.
Levi, Edgar Bernard

71

i2

ROSTER

Lew, Marion
Lezynsky, Isaac Lesser
Levi, Adolph
Levi, Bernard
Levi, Simon, P. M.
Lewis, Theron Leslie
Lewis, Thomas James
Lewis, William Wesley
Lischner, Hyman
Liston, James Riley
Little, William Everett
Lobingier, Frank Wells
Loebenstein, Daniel Albe1·t
Longfellow, Byron Melnot
Loomis, Charles Clark
Louis, Emanuel J., P. M.
Lowe, William Olin
Luce, Moses Augustine
Ludington, William French
MacFarlane, William Mitchell
MacKinnon, Duncan
Macnider, George Francis
MacNutt, Homer
Madden, Geo. Simmons
Mahoney, Denis Vincent, P. M .
Manice, John
Mardock, James T.
Marquardt, Hans
Marsh, Otto George
Masten, Louis Cuthbert
Markwith, Ira Hicks
Mathewson, Arthur Adelbert
McArthur, Duncan
· McClure, Stewart
McFadden, Joseph Ernest
McKee, William Naff
McKie, Hugh Nathaniel
McLure, Louis Steenrod, P. M. 1
McMurtie, Leighton
McWilliams, Joseph Green
Mead, Francis Henry
Mende, Adolph Jacob
MendenhaU, Americus Luther
Merritt, Wilbur Cassius
Mertzman, Bernhard Frederick
Meyer, Albert Carl

Middleton, George
Millard, Fordyce Rust
Mills, Edgar Ryder
Mitchell, Clarence Glenn
Mitchell, Samuel Wilson
Molsdale, Arthur Wm.
Moore, Charles Gardiner
Morgan, Addison, P. M.
Morgan, William Griffith
Morris, Arthur Adolphus
Morton, Richard Charles
Mossholder, Marks Prentice
Mossholder, William John, P. M.
Muehleisen, Adolph
Murphy, George Samuel
Murray, Lewis· Simon
Naumann, Feador
Nerney, Thomas Alexis
Newton, George William
Nichols, James Nelson
Nichols, Nathan Dean
Nichols, William Hampton
Nystrom, Isadore A_x el
Oakley, Nelson Clewell
0 'Neall, Charles Ford
O'Neill, Bernard J.
Osborn, John Burchard, P. M.
Owen, Ernest Levan
Parker, George Stevens
Partridge, Charles William
Patterso.n, Henry Tatterson
Paton, Alex Michael
Payne, John Wesley
Payson, Samuel Clifford
Peake, George Arthur
Pease, Alfred Rodney
Perrin, Minrod Jonathon, P. M.
Perrin, William Cooper
Peterhaus, William Gregory
Peterson, Edward Whitefield
Pfefferkorn, Mourney Caesar
Piepenbrink, Carl Ernest
Piepenbrink, Peter John, P. M.
Pierce, Francis Marshal
Polhamus, Albert Alexander, P. M.
Potter, Edward S.

ROSTER
Powell, J. Edward
i>owers, Robert Morris
Price, Jacob
!>rice, Peter M.
Price, Walter Willis
l'riest, Eclwaru Norman
Pritchard, Charles Peyton
Purdy, William Fred 'k
Puyear, Silas Montague, P. M.
liaithel, John Anderson
Raven, Fred Joseph
Hedding, Robert Clark
Redfern, Alfred Francis
Reed, David Curtis
Reinhardt, Albert Mathew
Remondino, Peter Charles
Rhoades, Horace Emmerson
Rice, Louis Jerome
Richards, Herbert Samuel
Rief, Frederick William
Rivers, George Hartford
Roberts, Edward M.
Ross, Albert Lee
Ross, John
Ross, Morgan Rinehart
Sandforu, Fred 'k Swift
Saum, De Roy
Schimpf, August Rudolph
Schartzel, Arthur Jacob
Schneider, Fred Arnold, P. M.
Schneider, Louis
Schorr, William Adolphus
Scheutze, William }'rederick P. M.
Schindler, Robert
Schnepp, Emil William
Schockley, Edgar Bennett
Schoonover, Albert
Scripps, James Geo.
Seifert, John Richard
Sensabaugh, Leonidas Franklin
Seymour, Abraham Clarence
Shaffer, Daniel Eugene
Shannon, James Webster
Shaw, Victor Emanuel
Shaw, John Gifford, P. M.

Shepherd, Richardson
Shera, James .
Shook, Stafford Leon
Simpson, Albert Lemuel
Simpson, John Henfrey
Smith, Frederick J.
Smith, Joseph Berton
Smith, Sam Ferry, P. M.
Spears, Henry Gordon
Spreckels, Claus
Springstead, Fred A.
Stabel, Alfred
Stabel, Walter
Stanton, Leon Irenee
Sterne, Charles Embrey
Strickler, John Weaver
Stromberg, Jean Emmanuel
Sturgo, Salvador M.
Swallow, Charles Howell
Swift, John
Swivel, Andrew
Taylnr, Charles Chapman
Taylor, David Gray
Taylor, James Woodbury
'l'aylor, Harry Scott
Telson, John Warren
Thill, Adolph
Thomas, Richard Baker
Thomae, William Emerson
'fhompson, Frederick M.
Thompson, John Waldo, P. M.
Thompson, Karl John
Thompson, Edwin Ruthvin
Tibbals, William Luther
Titus, Aime Baxter
Titus, Horton LeC.
Titus, Nat Robert, P. M.
Titus, Harry Lewie
Topping, William Crane
Topuzes, George
Touchette, Alfred Octave
Treahey, Alfred Moran
Turner, Ephraim De Mare
Urrang, Halvor Halvorsen
Van Dieken, Hermann Henry

73

R.OSTER
Varley, Lazarus
Venters, William Alex.
Verdon, Joseph Percy
Vernon, FabiUB M.
Voeltzel, Daniel
Wadham, James Edward
Wagele, William
Walker, Clark Ambrose
Wangenheim, Julius
Wankowski, Victor
Ward, Marks J.
Waters, Henry Robert
Watson, George
Weakland, Francis Lee
Weldon, Jam es Thomas
Wells, George Waehington
Wertheimer, Monroe Albert
Wescott, John Wesley
West, John Franklin
West, William Henry

White, Edwin Virgil
Whitney, Edward Ellsworth
Whitson, William Wl•sley
Wilhelm, Frederic George
Williams, Horace Delbert
Williams, Charles Lewis
Wilson, James Aldcroft
Wines, Sydney Jeremiah
Wheeler, James Lee
Willard, Cyrus Field
Winn, Robert Hatch
Wolf, Joseph Robert
Wood, Lorin Francis
Woodard, Edwin Adelbert, "P. M.
Wray, Daniel D.
Wright, Ralph Leone
Wright, Allen Henry
Wyatt, Frank K.
Yates, Enoch
Young, John Alford
--424

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Rippey, Charles Hendee

Abbott, Clarence Tweed
Armfield, Harrie C.
Asher, Josephus Marion
Beard, Amos
Bradley, William Francis

DIED:
Ervay, Henry Schley
Frary, Frank Phineas
Prieto, Joaquin Diaz
Stocking, RaymQnd Francis
Watson, Charles Cbauneey

ST. JOHN'S LODGE, No. 37.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated :Meetings, first Sa turday in each molQ.th.
OFFICERS:

William Ernest Combrink, Master, John C. Gillette, Chaplailt,
.
Yreka, Cal.
Herbert Milton Edmonds, Sen. De<U.,
Charles Ha<lley Carlson. Sen. Ward., Solon Heywood Williams, Jun. D.eac.;
George Alford DeWitt, Jun. Ward., Alfred C. Abshire, Marslu;l,
Frederick Elijah Wadsworth, Treas., Bennett Lafay.ett~ Butler, Steward,
Stanley Eastlick Butler, Secre.tary, Hugh McLeod; SieWJJrd,
J ames Marcell.us Powe.rs, Tyler.
Yreka, Cal

ROSTER
MEMBERS :
'Johnson, James Marion
Abshire, Alfred C., P. M.
Jones Thomas
Ackerman, Frank Buffum
Ackerman, !!,rank Smith
Jones, Willard Frederick
Atkinson, Archibald A.
Kegg. Fred Emery
Kendall, Edward John
Belden, Miles Beebe
Kennedy, Daniel
Bradley, John 'faylor
Butler, Bennet Lafayette, P. M.
Koontz, Henry Newmon
Lassen, Harry
Butler, Clifford Ederiek, P. M.
Lawson, Oscar Henry
Butler, Stanley Eastlick
Carlson, Charles Hadley
Lund, Charley
Cash, Harry
Luttrell, Charles James, P. M.
Cliambers, George Henry
Long, James Frarl'klin
Chandler, Elmer Rollo
Lovegrove, Geo. Elliott
Chapell, Peter Janette, P. M.
Mani, Peter
Churchill, Jerome Percy, P. M.
Martin, Brice McClendon
Churchill, Jesse Warren
Mattern, Adelbert Franklin
Cole, Herbert Bailey
Mattern, Herman
Mattern, John Hanlon
Cole, Hugh Franklin
McLeoll, Hugh
Combrink, Wm. Ernest
Cooley, John Edward
Millbourn, Ernest George
Davis, Alphonse Geo. Wash.
Mills, Robert McDonald
Davis, Henry Levi
Mitchell, Charles Augustus
Mullin, Henry Nelson
Davis, Jesse Francis
Mullin, Wm. Henry
DeWitt, George Alford
Newton, Allen, P. M.
Dexter, George Franklin
Newton, Lester Smith
Diggles, Henry Emit
O'Neill, John McCormick, P . M.
Eckwall, Alexander
O'Shaughnessy, John FranciE
Edmonds, Herbert Miltou
Pashburg, J'ohn Edward
Foster, Ellis Jacob
Patterson, Harry Clement
Fowler, Emerson Joseph
Patterson, Harry Havelock
Freshour, Joseph Frank
Pollock, Walter Benson
Freshour, Robert Delbert
Freshour, Walter
Powers, James Marcellus
Griffin, Franklin Robert
Powers, William Watson
Hansen, Christian
Proebstel, Chester Lloyd
Hess, Lewis Winfield
Rankin, Robert, P. M.
Hoar, William Pancoast
Rankin, Robert Ream
Hobson, Luther Morris
Raynes, Alonzo Emery
Holbrook, George Frederick
Raynes, Herbert Rosboro11gh
Horn, David Marshall
Ream, Henry Belden
Iffland, Karl Stein
Richardson, James Albert
Richardson, James Buchana!!
Jacobs, Gordon Morse
Richardson, Newton Eno
Jillson, Isaac Oliver
Richardson, Sidney
Johnson, George H.

75

ROSTER
Rohrer, James Baptiste
Beheld, Louis Philip, P. M.
Schroeder, John Henry Christopher
Shattuck, Silas
Shearer, William Buckner, P. M.
Shoan, Orian Chase
Soule, John
Southworth, Thomas Benton
Stevens, Charles Edwin
Stine, John William
Tebbe, Frederick Henry
Tebbe, George Albert, P. M.

Tebbe, William Edward
'fruitt, George Irwin
Wadsworth, Frederick Elijah, P. M.
Walton, George James
Ward, Kenneth Lester
Webster, Clarence Albert
Wheeler, James Edward, P. M.
Whitten, Charles Wesley
Wilcox, William Edward Benton
Williams, Solon Heywood
Wilson, Jeremiah Judson, P. M.
Wright, John Elbert
-112'

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lee, George
Nally, James Sawyer
Woodbury, .Franklin Isaac
DIED:
Silvers, Charles 'l'illmon

Beaudry, Fred

SANTA CRUZ LODGE, No. 38.
Santa. Cruz, Santa ~uz County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Geo.rge Greenwell, Chaplain,
Lloyd Bowman, Master,
362 Lau rel Street.
Samuel Arthur Evans, Sen. Deacon,
Gerald Francis Severio, Sen. Ward., Chester Frank Awalt, Jun. Deacon,
Francis Budgett, Jun. Ward.,
Henry Dresher Hall, Marshal,
Harry Clay Cooper, Treasurer,
Henry Kaiser, Steward,
Henry Joseph Godfrey, Secretary, Francis Edward Morgan, Jr., Stew.,
38 Ocean Street.
Peter Sophus Olsen, Tyler.
Adams, Arthur George
Ahlers, Diedrich Charles
Aldrich, Edwin Caleb
Allen, Herbert Dunning
Angell, Fenner Almerion
Atkinson, Fred 'k Wm.
Attaway, Taylor
Awalt, Chester Frank
Aydelotte, Charles Leon
Aydelotte, William Mack
Baker, Charles George Aldis

MEMBERS:
Barnet, Emanuel
Baldwin, Amos Merritt
Baxter, Robert James
Bell, William Lisle
Benner, Winfield Alex.
Bias, Harry James
Bias, William Henry
Bilodeau, John Henry
Blaisdell, Edgar Forrest
Blanchard, Thomas E.
Bowman, Edward

ROSTER
Bowman, Lloyd
Bremner, George St. John
Briggs, Herbert Fisk
Brown, James Henry
Brown, William
Budgett, Francis
Burdick, Charles Huntington
Bush, Benjamin Howard
Byrne, Walter Charles
Campbell, John Milton
Carter, Harry Lewis
Castle, Walter Price
Chamberlin, Marcus Philander
Clements, Robert Richardson
Clouette, William Isiah~
Coblentz, Felix
Cohen, Aron
.C oleman, Simeon Waldo
Cooper, Harry Clay
Congdon, Willis Rollin
Conklin, Weeden G.
Covell, William Elwell
Curtis, Philip Sheridan, P. M.
Dake, Lawrence John
Daniels, Clarence W. F.
Daves, Arthur Lawrence
Demarest, David Parsons
Dixon, Thomas Edward
Dotson, Ira McClellan
Drennan, Ryland
Drullard, Thompson Wilson, P. M.
Ely, Frank William
gmminger, Daniel David
Esty, Jarvis Duncain
Eva·n s, Samuel Arthur
Fischer, Antone
Folsom, Cathers Drummond, P. M.
Freshour, Joseph Terre
Gayton, John Avard
Gebhart, Charles Albert
Godfrey, Henry Joesph, P. M.
Green, Edwin
Greenwell, Geo.
Grover, Myron Hubert
Gulliver, George William

Hall, Everett Cameron
Hall, Henry Drescher
Harran, Edward J., P. M.
Harris, Waymouth
Harvey-, James Alexander
Hazelton, Harry Raleigh
Heathcote,· G. Prince Monpessen
Hearn, Christopher
Hendricksen, Emanuel
Hertz, Henry
Hinkle, Charles Devault, P. M.
Hobart, Edgar
Hobson, Iven Benbow
Hoffman, Frank Joseph
Holland, William
Horton, Roy Dolan
Hotchkiss, Marshall Edgar
Houghton, Austin Dinsmore
Insel, Henry Gustave
Izant, Bertram Howard, P. M.
Izant, Caleb
Izant, Percy Arthur, P. M.
Izant, William Caleb, P. M.
Johnson, Robert Franklin
Johnson, Walter Lloyd, P. M.
Jonas, Joseph Lewin
Jones, Charles Arthur
Jorgensen, Jorgen
Kaiser, Henry
Kaiser, John
Keck, William Hugus
Kelsey, Edward Albert
Kimball, Charles Augustus
Krebs, Julius Caesar
Kron, Henry Frederick
Kroeger, Charles Horman
La-Port, Delbert Arland
Lawrence, Jay Sherman
Lay, Phineas Smith
Layman, Andrew Johnson
Lester, John Park
Lincoln, Orlando Ja;
Linscott, Harry Arlyn
Linscott, John William, P. M.
Lloyil, Benjamin

i7 ·

'iS

Lorenzen, Coby
Lorenzen, Hiram AbifI'
Lorenzen, Lawrence
Lozier, Allen Sheldon
Lucas, Frederick William, P. M.
Lucas, Harry Clifford
Lucas, William Vincent, P. M.
Luttrell, Alexaniler
MacKinnon, James B.
Markle, Robert Bruce
Martens, John Peter
Martin, Benjamin Risdon
Martin, Charles Christopher
Mattison, Frank, P. M.
Mattison, Ralph John, P. M.
McCollister, Earl Hamilton
McCreary, Edward Davis
McCreary, Josiah Winans
McCreary, Thomas Guy, P. M.
McNair, James
McPhetres, Daniel Morten
Meadows, Charles Richmond
Melcher, Eugene Dewey
Menefee, Frank George
Middleton, Henry Louis
Middour, William Louis
Mikel, Joseph Andrew
Moore, David Charles
Moore, William St. Clair Dcmitte
:Montell, George Alfred
Mosher, Nelson
Napier, Robert Graham
Nicholson, William H .
Neimes, Nicholas Wilber
Noble, Walter Alexander
Oliver, William
Olsen, Peter Sophus
Ostrom, Aaron Carroll
Perry, Peter Pierce, P. M.
Peterson, Henry Caesar
Philbrook, Edgar Brayton
Phillips, Percy Todd
Phillips, Wm. Alfred
Picknell, Stanley Gates
Pioda, Louis Emelio W.

Piper, Harry Elwin
Plancich, Nicholas Antonia
Powell; Rolla
Pratchner, George Charles
Pratcnner, William Welle
Prouty, Frederick Raymond
Putnam, Marvin Edgerton
Ray, Ellis Elijah
Read, William Miles
Reece, Frederick Hood
Reynolds, John Lewis
Rhein, Henry
Rhein, Sidney
Rostron, George Henry, P. M
Roy, James Mauris
Se\·erio, Gerald Francis
Severio, John, P. M .
Smiley, John Albert
Shippy, William Delos
Simmers, Walter Edward
Smith, Lucas Flattery
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Snyder, Bertram Bernard
Snyder, Henry Francis
Soper, John
Springer, Paul Eugene
Springer, Ralph Chesebro
Staubes, Charles
Stearns, Frank Wilcox
Stevens, Chas. Morrill
Still, Arthur
Still, Herbert Charles, P. M
Stone, George Whitefield, P. M.
Strite, John Henry
Sutton, John Burton
Tabler, Charles Melvin
Taylor, John Alexander, P. M.
Tainton, Edgar Milsted
Tenney, Henry Durgan
Thayer, Truman Ransom
Thorburn, Charles Reid
'!'ooze, William Clarence
Towne, Charles E.
Trezona, Charles Ernest
Twist, John Parker

79

ROSTER

ROSTER
Wanzer, Harry Snyder
Wobster, Mark
Wt•11t, Edward Swift, P. M ,
Wells, George Washington
Whittle, Louis Arthur
Wilder, Melvin Dwight
Willey, Henry

Willis, Ellery
Wilson, Burton J.
Wilson, Edgar Miles
Wilson, Thomas Clay
Woodard, Lester
Wood, George William
York, James Maddison

-216

WITHDRAWN:
Springer, Wilson Riley
Wood, Wallace Percival

t l riswold, Seldon

llnndall, Horace

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Zealear, Samuel Francis
DIED:
Meserve, Alvin Rand
Russell, William

l•'it.C'11, Edwin
f lr1•ene, Arthur Miles

YUBA LODGE, No. 39.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
l'harles Valentine Doll, Master,
William Cramer Swczy, Chaplain,
Marysville, Cal.
Milton Pavey Haney, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Edward Turner, Sen. W., Alton Roy Weaver, Jun. Deacon,
William Hazen Eastman, Jun. W., Abram Walter Lewis, Marshal,
l'eter Engle, Treasurer,
Frank Wilson Potter, Steward,
Cordon Nielson Tapley, Secretary, Frederick Boyd Tapley, Steward,
l\farysville, Cal.
Elbridge Porter Androse, Tyler.
Aubrey, Arthur George
Barnes, Jesse 'Walter
Barr, James Holmes
Belcher, Richard
Hevan, H.ichard Edwin
Bissell, Nelson Clifton
Black, Roy Harry
Boulton, Emison Alton
Brittan, Mark Thomas
Brostrom, Frederick
Brotherhood, Alan S., P. M.
Brown, Howard Leroy

MEMBERS:
Carpenter, William Edward
Corey, William Franklin
Cunningham, Edward Augustus
Cunningham, Francis William
Davis, Edwin Amenzo
Doll, Charles Valentine
Donnalley, Edward J.
Eastman, James Fred
Eastman, William Razon
Engel, Peter
Engel, Walter William
Ewell, Samuel

so

ROSTER

Fenwick, William Arthur
Featherly, Matthew Thomas
Fisher, Amos
Foster, John Rupert, P. M.
Frey, Frank Edward
Fuller, Jesse Beech, P. M.
Gianella, Vincenzo
Gribner, George Thomas
Grow, William Bert
Hall, George William, P. M.
Haney, Milton Pavey
Henn, William Theophilus, P. M.
Hoard, Frank Eugene
Hutchins, John Sullivan, P. M.
Hutchins, Gavin Walker
Jenken, William Emerson
King, Henry Dietrich, P. M.
Knaugh, .Toshua
Kuebler, Walter Albert
Lewis, Abram Walter, P. M.
Lewis, Arthur Garfield
Lipp, Albert Powell
Loehne, Frederick William, P. M.
Logan, Anderson Dabney
Malloch, Henry
McClintock, William
Menz, Albert John Schrieber
Millar, Robert
Moon, Benjamin
Moors, Frank Bennett
Newbert, Lee Hamilton

Norbon, Paul
Palm, Carl Frederick
.Peffer, John
·
Potter, Frank W., P. M.
Powell, David, P. M.
Redmond, William
Roberts, George William
. Rogers, John Belcher
Rubel, Charles Christopher
::3hcldon, Frederick William
Single, Joseph Henry
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Stokes, Guy Heancastle, P. M.
Stone, Charles Caldwell
Stone, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
St. John, Enos Frost
Sutliff, Bruce Har.e
Sutliff, George Warren
Swezy, Wm. Cramer, P. M.
Swift, Sidney Bourne
T.a ber, Edgar
Tapley, Frederick Boyd
Tapley, Gordon Nelson
Tatum, Randolph
Turner, Charles Edward
Vanderpool, John Edward
Wallis, Ivory Edgar
Walters, Joseph
Weaver, Alton Roy
Wheelock, John Dexter

WITHDRAWN:
McGill, James H.

Arp, William Henry

ROSTER

DIED:
Covilland, Charles Julian
Meek, Emerson E.

Bl

SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS :

Cornelius Philander Bandy, Master, Clarence Todd Clark, Chaplain,
1231 K Street.
Allyn Lord Burr, Sen. Deacon,
J oseph Hardin Stephens, Sen. Ward., Claudius Carroll Richards, J. Deac.,
]lllian Fontaine Johnson, Jun. Ward., William Edward Appleton, Marshal,
William Monroe Petrie, Treasurer,
Spencer Percival Elliott, Steward,
Richard Cutrer Irvine, S ecretary,
Ralph Leslie Skinner, Steward,
190() H Street.
George Dunn, Tyler.

·-85

MEMBERS:
Acock, Thomas LaFayette
Burr, Allyn Lord
,\ ndrew, Adam
Burr, Richard Palmer, P. M.
Arnlerson, Joseph Maurice
Camp, James Glasby
Atkinson, Edmund Mansfield
Capen, George Ashley
Atkinson, Foster Lincoln
Carroll, Harry Montfort
Atkinson, Frank Freeman
Charter, Earl Davis
Appleton, William Edward, P. M.
Christie, Isaac
Bandy, Cornelius Philander
Clark, Clarence Todd
Bassett, George Combs, P. M.
Clark George Harvey
Clay, Ammon
Bassett, William Wa~ter
Barmby, John Trever
Colburn, James A.
Basler, Charles Mutin
Coleman, Russell Lowell
Basler, Martin Albert
Cook, George Nesbit, P. M.
Bates, Hugh Roland
Crabb, Homer Elmer
Craig, James
Bidwell, Frank J., P. M.
Beard, George Foster
Curtis, Melancthon John, P. M.
Beard, Marshall Rowles
Curtis, William Albert
Blair, John Newell, P. M.
Darling, Henry Job
Bowden, Lewis W. R.
Dolan, Patrick Charles
Boyd, John Walter, P. M.
Dunn, George
Boy1l, Thomas
Elliott, Spencer Percival
Bragg, Charles Lourin
Elliott, William Irving
Brand, George Sumner
Ellis, Charles Joshua
Brendel, Frank Philip
Everett, Walter Wyncoop
Briggs, William Ellery
Fairbanks, Herbert August
Brown, John Pemper
Farr, David
Brusch, Charles Henry
~nnie, Robert Dryden
Bugby, Benjamin Norton, P . M.
Fish, Alfred Lafayette
Burdick, Joseph
Fowler, Ezra Schoales
6

82

'ROSTER

ROSTER

Lane, George William
Fraser, John David
Larkin, William Henry
Frazier, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Lucas, James Franklin
Giffen, James Buchanan, P. M.
Madison, William John
Gillis, Dougald
Maehn, William ·Julius
G:rant, Duncan
Mathews, Charles James
Ureen, John Albert
Mayo, Joseph Ely
Green, John Harry
McDonald, William Lowell
Griffith, Charles Wilbur
McKim, Samuel Warder
Uuth, Joseph
McLean, Duncan
Hale, Evert Wilburn
Miller, Arthur Eugene
Hale, Marshall
Miller, Dwight Henry
Hale, Prentiss Cobb
Miller, Frederick Walton Winston
Hale, Reuben Brooks
Miller, John G.
Harkness, Frank
Molter, Jacob Philip
Harmon, Rufus Burnham, P . M.
Morgan, Earl Ralph
Ha.tcb, Wilber Mark
Morris, Edward
Heath, Josiah Rieb
Morton, Charles Wardle
Henderson, Harry Alex.
Mott, William Wallace, Sr., P. ~·
Hills, Charles Thomas
Mott, William Wallace, Jr.
Hoen, Ernest Martin
Mull, Archibald Harrison
Holbrook, Charles
Nash, Hiram DeWitt
Holmes, George Albert
Newbert, William Edmond
Hopkins, Edwin Carmi
Nicholas, James Stuart
Hornlein, Hugo August
Nichols, Arthur Lombard
Hornlein, Max Edward
Olsen,
Oscar Francis
Howard, Douglas Carlton
Hughes, Joseph Wilcoxson, P. M. O'Neill, James. P. M.
Parker, Franklin Wilcox
Hullin, Nicholas Joseph, P. M.
Payen, Louis
Humphrey, Anthony Boyd
Perkins, Chi;trlee Calley
Ilgner, Charles William, P. M.
Petersen, Henry Walter
Ilgner, Eugene Lowell
Petrie, William Monroe, P. M.
Irvine, Richard Cutrer, P. M.
Phillips, (l'eor ge
Johnson, Joseph William
Phipps, Charles Edward
Johnson, Julian Fontaine
Porter, Clive William
Johnson, Julian Workman
Prideaux, Richard Blight, P. M .
.Tohnston, John Wesley
Quir•m, Frank Jacob
Jones, Perry Evert
Haynsford, Cyrus H .
Jordan, Louie Ernest Cla1k
Raynsford, Mark H .
Judd, Joseph Walter
Read, Herbert Alfred James
Kleinsorge, ·Albert Frederick
Read, John Adderson
Kleinsorge, Henry Emil
Kleinsorge, William Edward, P. M. Reeves, John Wesley
Reith, John
Knights, William Durrant, P. M.
Rhoden, William Augustus
Knights, William Rudd
Richards, Claudius Carroll
K y le, Alexander

Rideout, Benjamin N:or.man
Ross, Thomas
·
Ruedy, John
Russell, Jobµ Les.l ie
Saunders, Joseph William
Schaw, ·William
Schwoerer, Louis Martin
Shonefelt, William ': p9tner
Seymour, Arthur McArthur, P. M.
Skinner, Ralph Leslie
Smith, Harry ~ntbony
Stephens, J?seph Hardin
Stephens, Harley Ho.ward, P. M.
Stephenson, William Albei:t
Stevens, Eugene Noyes ·
Stevenson, Robert Bruce

83

Stubbs, ·C harles Russell
Tade, Frank, P. M. ·
Thorp, Harry
Vaughan, Richard
Vaughan, Wm. Edward ,
Waggoner, Re~! Holloway, P. M.
Watkins, Delos Sumner, P. M.
Weil, Edw.a;rd .A~i:Jl~h·
· ·
Weinstock, '·Harrie
Wendt, Gustav Adolph
Williams, Austin Daniei
Willis, William Ladd
Willis, Evander Berry, P. M.
Wilson, William
Wood, William
.
Woodr\1ff, David N.
-180

DIED:
Cothrin, William Kip

MARTINEZ LODGE, No. 41,.
Martinez, Contra Costa County. ~
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month:
OFFICERS:

Ernest ·Harvey Shibley, Master,
Glenn Avery Wilcox, Chaplain,
Martinez, Cal.
Thomas Brewster Swift, Sen. Deac.,
Frederick ] ohn Stewart, Sen. Ward.,] oseph Charles Arnold, Jun. Deacon,
William Richard Sharkey, Jun. W., Brooke Lindsay Danziger, Steward,
William Alanson Hale, Treasurer, Harry Peacock Mudd, Steward,
Orville Eugene Hayward, Secretary, George Lyman Eddy, Tyler.
Box 315, Martinez, Cal.
0

Alverado, Henry Victor, P. M .
Arnold, Jos. Charles
Babel, William
Baer, Alfred Leon
Baldwin, Barry
Baumann, George Edward
Beaudett, Joseph
Bibber, Charles Edward
Blum, Albert Edward
Blum, Gabriel

MEMBERS :
Blum, Max
Blum, Simon
Borland, Robert Burns
Brooks, Frederick Sheridan
Burgin, Clarence Otto
Buttner, Louis Napoleon, P. M.
Canfield, Wm. Lee
Coleman, Arthur Burr
Coleman, Harry Lander
Collins, John Samuel

84
Cummer, George Washington
Danziger, Abraham Lincoln
Davies, Albert
Davis, Ira
Dillon, Malachi F.
Duffy, William Joseph
Dye, Thomas Henry
Edd:v. Geo. Lyman
Edwards, Hugh Pugh, P. M.
Fassett, William
Field, William A.
Fogg, Donald Eastman
Fulton, Homer Harvey
Griffith, Roy C.
Gordon, Ernest
Hale, William Alanson, P. M.
Hale, Ruben Lyon
Hayward, Orville Eugene
Hough, William Jerome
Hammott, William Cushing
Huff, Frank Louis
Ipswith, George
Ingraham, Richard H.
Jacobs, Samuel Beer
January, Gerard T.
Jaquith, Corey C.
Jaquith, William Clark
Jamieson, William
Jenkins, Clarence W.
Jones, John Davies
Jones, Madison Ralph
Joost, Martin William
Kelly, Samuel Colter
Latimer, Randal Hubert
Lee. Richard Bee
Lefker, Clyde Renwick
Levinson, David Samuel
Lucas, John Gencoloes
Lyford, George Henry
Lyon, M. E.
McClellan, James William
McLeod, Edward, P. M.
Martin, Everett L.
Mathewson, Alex., Jr.

ROSTER
Matheson, Robert Browning
Matheson, William
Matheson, Zachariah Benson
. McCabe, Robert Emmit
Moore, Brook L., P. M .
Mowdy, Charles Elmer, P. M.
Mudd, Harry Peacock
Muir, John Crunna
Neustaedter, Michaelis
Neff, Felix Francis
Nelson, Conrad Oscar
Overfield, George Smith
Overfield, Henry Dunicake
·owens, Edmund
Pasch, Elias
Pavolini, Anthony
Petersen, John Emil
Powell, Thomas
Rankin, Samuel
Rhine, Charles
Rhine, Jacob
Rodgers, Bloomfield Balton
Rosenstroh, Jake
Schall, Feredrick Charles
Sharkey, William Richard
Shepman, William Joseph
Shibley, Ernest Harvey, P. M.
Simon, John G.
Springer, Thomas Grant
Stemkellner, Thomas Joseph
Stile, Will Rothwell
Slater, Earl Alfred
Smith, Otto Kasper, P. M.
Stewart, Fred John
Swift, Thomas Brewster
Tinning, William 8.
Thissen, Charles Willis
Ulsh, Ruben Leonard, P. M .
Wilson, Alvin Brice, P. M.
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Wells, William Sewell, P. G. M.
Wilcox, Glenn A.
Wittenmyer, John Lewis
-107

ROSTER

Eagar, Thomas Chester

85

WITHDRAWN:
Stoddard, Eugene Warren
White, George C.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Haskell, August Storey
Douglas, William John

DIED:
Fernandez, Bernard

LOS ANGELES LODGE, No. 42.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ca rl Parmenis Smith, Master,
George Walter Ya rrow, Chaplain,
1912 Oak Street.
Robert Leffler Van Zandt, S . Deac.,
E rnest Zachariah Croxall, Sen. W., James Houston Sellers, Jun. Deacon,
Frank Jehial DeMo tt, Jun. Ward., Gelbert Lee Rogers, Marshal,
August Peter Frederick Hartnack, William Cleveland Mcintyre, Stew.,
David Da rwin Hug·hes, Steward,
T reasurer,
Charles Edward Mitchell, S ecretary, Edward H a ll Miller, Tyler.
Masonic Temple, Pico and Figueroa Streets.

MEMBERS:
Aaron, Daniel Witcher
Berry, Andrew Jackson
Adloff, Jacob
Biescar, Henry
Am ols, Charles
Biescar, joseph.
Annable, Fred Lester
Biescar, George
Asher, Ralph
Bille, Marcello
Baida, Nicolas Gabriel
Birnbaum, Isador William
Baldy, Alexander Jordan
Birnbaum, Joseph Herman
Barnes, Legene Sago
Bixby, Bert Boardman
Barnett, William Theodore
Blancher!, Leon
Barnett, Leo Wise, P. M.
Blumenberg, Samuel Purdy
Bates, Astle
Blum, Jules
Bayha, George Gottlob
Borba, Manuel
Bayha, Maximil!ian
Boyarsky, Joseph
Behrendt, Caspar
Boyle, Calvin Aleinous
Behrstock, Isadore
Boyle, Wi!Jiam Matchneer
Bell, John
Braun, Henry
Benedict, Stephen Gano
Brauer, Frederick
Beckwith, John Mitchell
Brain, Wyndham Bennett
Bernhard, Gustav Adolph George
Bravender, Franklin Matthew

ROSTER
Brown, Walter William
Dilly, Alfred Lockman
Dodson, William Long
Browning, Arthur Winston
Buchanan, Edwar'd Alna
Dorr, Louis Henry
Bundy, William Hersha}
Downing, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
Burkhardt, Adolph
Dujmovich, Matteo Cosmo
Burckell, Leon Albert
Duncan, Louis Freeling
Burg, Oscar Jeorgen William, P; M. Duncan, William Jones
Buisseret, Alfred Paul
Durphy, Alfred Hartwell
Burns, James Franklin, P. M.
Dyer, Charles Rosser
Bushnell, John Brown
Eccl~tone, Charles Vollum, P. M.
Bussert, Jacques
Eclclman, Abram Moses, P. M.
Cahen, Caes.ar George
Eclelman, David William
Cahen, Simon, P. M.
Edgar, Clarence William
Eichholz, Philip
Cahn, Henry Samuel
Campbell, Robert
Elsner, Emanuel
Unmpbell, Robert Mackenzie
Ernst, Henry Picket
Carbone, Louis
Evans, David P.
Carlson, Gustap Emil
Fanshowe, George Richardson
Carter, John West
Fast, Max
Cassidy, Thomas Henry
Feder, Nathan
Finkenstein, Isadore Simon
Chapman, James Casky
Cherry, Guy Alonzo
Finley, Charles Howard
Finnila, August
Chiapella, Edward Emile
Choate, James Jefferson
Fischer, Aloia
Clausen, Frederick Carl
Fisher, John
Clayton, George Louie
Flnckinger, George Edward
C!line, John Casper
Foster, Douglas E.
Clos, Peter
Fricke, Carl Henry
Cohn, Elias
Frick!', William Charles
Cohn, Kaspare
Fricke, William Charles, Jr.
Cohn, Max
Friegel, Fred G.
Fraser, Alexander
Colburn, Edgar Leonard
Fuller, Oliver Ransome
Coli1mbus, Joseph
'Cooksey, Job Emit
Gaffey, John Tracy
Conzelman, Charles Emanuel
Germain, Edward
Cook, James Franklyn
Gersen, Francis George
Cooper, Alfred
Getchell, John Townsend
Cooper, George John
Gillett, Edgar W.
Croxall, Ernest ·Zachariah
Gillespie, Frank
Curry, William Edward
Glass, John Malcolm .
Daniels, AlQert Julius
Glascock, William Asa
Davies, Floyd Ernest
Goldschmidt, Hugo
Goldschmidt, Marcus
Dawson, Jay Bosworth
De Mott, Frank Jehial
Goldschmidt, ·Herman Hirsch
Dietze, ·Cu.rt Pa,ul
Goldste~, Jpseph Oohen

ROSTER.
Goldsten, Morris Harry, P. M.
Goldsworthy, Frank William
Goiter, Edward
Gotthelf, Aaron Solem
Graf, Siegfried
Graham, Angus, Jr.
Graham, Angus
Gravit, Martin John
Green, Leo
Griffiths, Thomas
Griggs, Willinm Francis
Gross, George Washington
Guenther, John Adolph
Guterman, Abe
Guterman, Morris
Haber, Peter R.
Hamilton, Edwin Smyth
Hanbury, Edgar John
Hancock, Wm. Fred 'k
Hardstein, Joseph
Hargrave, Pa.seal King
Hartman, David
Hartnack, August Peter Fred 'k
Hartnack, John Charles
Hauch, Isaac
Haugh, Paul Edward
Hein, Jacob
Hellman, James Wolf
Hellman, Isaias William
Hess, Arthur Cameron
Higson, .Tames Henry
Hiner, Elmer, P. M.
Hirsh, Dave
Hoffman, William Michael
Holbrook, Frederick William
Hollowell, Isaac Lloyd
Home, George Kimball
Horen, Edwin
Huff, Wesley John
Hughes, David Darwin
Iaeger, Louis John Frederick
Illich, John
.Tauch, Joseph Wilhelm
J oham, James J'oseph
Johnson, Frank A.

Johnson, James McClure
Johnson, Luther Herman
Johnson, Palmer 'Alfred·
Johnston, Albert Humboldt·
John~ton, William Mitchell
Joyce, Thomas F.
Julian, Edward Gustave
Kalisher1 Simmie
Kaplan, Benjamin
Kennedy, John Doby
King, John, P. M.
Kingsbaker, Benjamin
Kircher, Hermann Otto
Klein, Julius S.
Klein, Morris, P. M.
Klein, Adolph
Kolmanson, Kolman
Krempel, Christian
Krempel, John Paul
Krug, Charles LaurenceLa Lande, Roy Joseph
Lamport, William Lewil!f
Lane, Frank Joesph
Last, John Ludwig Adolph
Last, Carl Frederick August, P. M~
Langbein, Ernest Leslie
Laxton, Ernest
Leo, John
Leonie, Jean Baptiste
Levy, Elie Julius
Levy, Felix
Levy, Ralph Amite
Lindstedt, Alfred Robert
Lipsky, Jacob
Llewellyn, William
Longuevan, Joseph Beauregard'.
Lutes, Harry George
Maeder,· Alfred Gottlob, P. M.
Maeder, Henry Julius
Magnus, Selmar
Maier, Richard Edward
Maier, Simon
Mapel, Charles Elliot
Martin, Carl William
Masac, Howard Anthony

87

ROSTER
Masac, Theophilus
Max, William
Mayor, Frank William
McArthur, Clifford Whitmore
McCreary, Charles
McDowell, James
Mcinnis, August G.
Mcintyre, William Cleveland
McLeod, John Edward
McStay, Walter Milton
Melczer, Joseph
Meuschke, Edward Herman
Meyer, James Benjamin
Meyer, Solomon
Michelsen, George
Miller, Edward Hall
Miller, Harry Crow
Miller, Carl Gregg, P. M.
Miller, Isaac Joseph
Miller, Joseph
Mitchell, Charles Edward, P. M.
Mittendorf, Louis Ernest
Moir, Frank
Moore, Henry Clay, Jr.
Moore, James Lloyd
Moore, Walter Scott
Moulton, Harry Jackson
Muswick, Max Fred
Myrick, Orlando Harlow
Nance, Charles Holland
Nance, Roswell S.
Nelson; Alexander Philip
Nelson, John William
Newhard, William Penn
Newmark, Harris
Newmark, Max Nathan
Noel, James
Northmore, Emanuel Richard
Norton, Isaac
Norton, Isaac Henry
Odenthal, Hubert
Paget, Howard
Pamucina, Mitchel
Paulson, Paul
Peck, Thomas Charles

Percival, John Cary
Pierce, Henry Alfonzo
Pitner, Franklin Ruble
Platt, Francis Edward
Pollock, Simon Lazarof
Preston, William Herman Frank B.
Rademacher, Frank, P. M.
Raphael, Robert Herman
Redican, Bernard
Reed, Guy Burt
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Richards, Raymond George
Richards, Sidney Albert
Robinson, William Joseph
Rodowitz, Henry Louis
Rosin, Benjamin
Roth, Max
Rudolph, Ernest Louis William
Ruoff, Albert
Russell, Thomas Blaine
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Salinger, Victor Randolph
Scheerer, Conrad
Schlesinger, Jacob
Schone, John
Schons, Otto Herbert
Schrein, Joseph Martin
Schroeder, Richard Albert
Schulman, Simon
Schwartz, Leo
Sedgwick, Thomas Duncan
Sellers, James Houston
Shockley, James Bert
Shoemaker, Frederick Willcox
Singer, Joseph
Singh, Sardar Hira
Skinner, James
Slavin, Alexander Gerson
Sloan, Bennie Ernest
Slotterbeck, Harry Walter
Smith, Benjamin Franklin Porter
Smith, Carl Parmenis
Smith, James
Smith, Arthur Garfield
.Smith, Willard Eliphalet

ROSTER
Spear, Joseph
Spengler, Philip
Spindler, Moses
Spitzer, Harry
Staben, Emil Ernst
Stanton, Edwin
Stein, Philip
1:-lteineman, Hermon Jacob
8ternback, Nathan
Stewart, Archie Earnest
Stewart, James Watson
Stidham, Taylor
Stoecklin, Arnold Joseph
Story, Fred Husted
Sullans, Charles Clinton
Summcrland, Theodore
Talbot, . Madison Worthington
Taylor, Clarence John
'rhurner, Gottlob Adolf
Theobald, Victor Hugo
•rerry, Bennet~
Tileston, William Lount
Todd, Robert Asa
Townsend, Albert Lamar
Vansyckle, George Warne
Vest, Joseph L.
Vogel, Herman Oscar
Wagner, William James
*Caro, Edward Harry
Faerber, William

Wallace, Harry Hall
Walls, William Le Roy
Watts, William Lord
Wearne, Julian Howard
Weidner, Peter
W einsveig, Mikel ·
Weisberger, Sam
Wells, Ashton Albert, P. M.
Weyse, Rudolf, Guenthe·r
Wharton, Mesheeh
White, Francis Edgar
Whiting, Perry
Williams, George A.
Williams, William John
Wirtz, Rudolph
Wise, Walter Dorsett, P. M .
Witkind, Simon
W ol:tf, Bernhard
Wolff, Isaac
Wolff, Louis Gottlieb
Woodbury, Edward
Worden, Herbert Bairsto
Wygal, Jacob Thomas
Yarrow, George Walter, P. M.
Yarrow, Lloyd Ray
Young, Harry Orlie
Zemansky, Solomon
Zenz, John
-364

WITHDRAWN:
Greenough, James Frederick
Sweeny, Clarence Jonathan
Strohm, Thomas

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Clark, Thomas Brainard
Rutz, George Adam
Dick, Henry
Scott, Walter Hayes
Eckart, Joseph
Seebold, Alexander Humboldt
Merritt, Elmer Philip
Show, Thomas William
EXPELLED:
Bergh, Hans
Bowlby, Hugh Hanford
Colling, Benjamin
McLeod, .Simon

81)

DIED:
Prager, Charles
Roth, Edmond
Sunderland, Joseph

•Degrees conferred during the year.

9!

HOSTER

90

HIRAM LODGE, No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings; Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Berry, Reuben Kelley
Hopkins, Wm. Charles
Biggs, Wm. Spencer
Hubbard, Lucious Samuel
Black, Charles Franklin
McDonald, Charles Darwin
Cantrell, Coswell Clay
McKenzie, William Burgess
Carsey, Malon Snyder
McNeil, Homer Hubert
Celio, Benjamin Caesar
Moore, William Jefferson, P. M.
Celio, Frank
Salmon, George Washington
Diithmann, Gerhard Heinrich, P. M. Skinner; William Henry
Fisher, John Adolphus, P. M.
Smith, Chauncey Justus
Frazier, John Edwin
Smith, Elbert W.
Griffin, Earl Van Dorn
Smith, Urvin Waldo
Harvey, George Washington
Staples, Alpheus Dow
Heald, John Campbell
Swingle, Orry James
Hill, Grant
Yeadon, William
Hirst, Oliver Nelson
-29

MOUNT MORIAH LODGE. No. 44.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wednesday in each month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:
Daniel Bradford Richards, Master, Edmund Tauszky, Chaplain,
965 Monadnock Bldg.
Henry Nathaniel Clift, Sen. Deac., ;,
Stirling Kindall Campbell, Sen. W., Roy Allen Pratt, Jun. Deacon,
John Jacob Stahl, Junior Warden, Thomas Nixon, Marshal,
John Frederick Schroth, Treasurer, Karl Frederick lfolzmuller, Jr., Stw.,
Theodore Frolich, Secretary,
Christian Hansen Hjul, Steward,
846 Phelan Bldg.
Hans Gustav Fredrickson, Tyler.
Adam, Herman
Allen, William George
Altenburg, August.
Ames, Frank Holmes

MEMBERS:
Ames, Frank Mortimer
Amey, George Henry
Anderson, Alfred Henry
Anderson, Carl Alfred

Anderson, Charles James
Anderson, Mar.q uitt
Anderson, Otto Evart
Anderson, Sterling
Andrews, Thomas Patrick
Anthony, Herbert Mills
Applegate, George Brenton
Apperson, Charles Leonard
Baker, Charles Arnold
Barker, Leslie Enoch
Barnard, Frank ·
Barnett, Harry
Barry, Edgar Stephen
Basker, Solomon
Batchelder, Nathan Prescott
Beck, Sigmund
Bell, Joseph Vincent
Benson, Nils Peter
Bergen, Alexander
Bergerot, Pierre Alexander
Bernhard, Peter Daniel
Bernstein, Max
Bernstein, Philip
Bestandig, Max
Bowman, George Washington
Boyer, William Edward, P. M.
Bredhofl', Charles Martin
Brunkhorst, Henry Charles
Bryant, Frederick James
Burke, Edmund William
Burke, William Gordon
Bury, Valentine Ryder
Calden, Guy Chester
Calvin, William Henry
Cambre, Harry
Campbell, Sterling Kindall
Caswell, George William
Cevasco, Giovanni Battista
Chamberlain, Aaron Lewis, P . M.
Chase, Nathaniel Linton
Chassagne, Leon
Clift, Henry Nathaniel
Cohl, Morris·
Coffee, Lawr~nee ·Wm.
Conmy, Thomas Cherry, P. M

Conner, John Caswell
Corinson, Jacob
Craumer, Fred
Crawley, John Edwin
Crittenden, Joseph Lambert, P. M.
Cunningham, Thomas Stanley
Davies, Ezekiel William
Davis, David·
Davis, John Warner
Dnvis, Morris White
Dellegar, Fred 'k Clarence
Demartini, Frank Jerome
Diers, Peter Matthias
Dixon, John Meneely
Dixon, Randall McDonald
Dixon, William John Pittman
Dolling, William Henry, P. M.
Donde.ro,. Charles ·
Dowell, Marvin Eugene
Eaton, Frederick Ward
Eberhart, Adolph, P. M.
Ellery, Epes
Ellison, Thomas
Engdahl, Ernest Olof
Erikson, Clarence, P. M.
Erken, Charles Henry
Ertola, Joseph Frederick
Etienne, Emile
Etienne, Joseph Martin
Etienne, Victor, Jr.
Everett, Daniel Henry, P. M.
Fischer, Oscar
Fish, George Lewis
Fisk, William James
Flynn, Thomas Emmett
Focha, William Francis
Ford, Campbell
Fredrickson, Hans Gustav
Freiermuth, George Henry
Frolich, Theodore, P. M.
Geist, William
Greub, Gustav Adolph
Gilbert, George Slioebridge
Gill, Edward Clifford
Gilman, Samuel Walter

92
Gloss, Anton Adolf
Goldberg, Jacob
Gordan, Jacob
Grace, Frank Henry
Green, Aaron Samuel
Green, Louis David
Gruver, Charles Silvamoius
Gunderson, Severin Tobias
Gunn, William John
Hacke, William Conrad, P. M.
Halsted, Eminel Potter
Harper, Fred Fogg Gale
Harris, Thomas Voe!
Harshall, Gustav
Hart, Oscar Herman
Harvey, William Alonzo
Harvey, William Edward
Hatteroth, William Henry Carl
Haughy, James Clarkson
Haussler, Frederick Otto
Haviside, Harry Thomas
Healey, William Wilford
Hennings, John Henry Marius
Henry, Carl Albert
Herbst, Herschel Herman
Heron, Wm. Morton
Hewson, George Edward
Herrguth, Frank Peter
Hertlein, Henry
Heyneman, Herman
Hiett, Julius SylvPster
Hill, Edwin Potter
Hilmer, Frank Ernest
Hilmer, Fred Louis
Hjul, Christian Hansen
Hoadley, Hermann Muller
Holladay, Samuel Wirt
Holmes, James Gilmour
Holzmiiller, Karl Frederick, .Jr.
Horstmann, William John
Hyde, Alexander
Israel, Arthur Clarence
Jacobs, Albert
Jacobs, Albert Pocorny
Jacobs, Arthur Felton

ROSTER
Jar.obs, Henry
Jenkel, John Rudolph August
Jens, John Charles, P. M.
Jensen, Hans Peter
Johansen, Christian
Johnson, Otto John Henry
.Joly, John George
Jones, George Edward
Jorgensen, Lawrence
Junkins, John Spencer
Kato, Frans Ludwig
Kelly, John
Kerr, John
Kinsman, Chester Cushing
Kinsman, Raymon Flanders
Kimball, John Albion
Kimball, John Carpenter, P . M.
Klein, Frederick Wilhelm
Knox, Frederick Woodson
Koepke, Hans Joachim H.
Krone, Frederick Wilhelm
Krone, Frederick William, Jr.
Kukaviza, Milan
Kupfer, Edouard Herman
Lander, Charles John
Lascy, Frank Howard
Lebenbaum, Louis
LeCam, Ferdinand Julian
Lemmermann, John Hermann Henry
Lenoir, Emile
Levy, Herman
Lillie, Augustus Seabury
Lindsay, Charles McKerral, P. M.
Lindsay, Thomas
Linne, John Conrad
Lippman, George W.
Louderback, Davis, P. M.
Maass, Andrew Henry
MacFarland, John
Maden, Emile
Maguire, Eugene Burns
Mason, Edward William
Masters, Charles Benfield
Mathewson, Clifford Earl
McCallan, John

ROSTER
Mccaw, William Nassau
McDaniel, Willard
McElroy, William Joseph
McGuire, James
McKay, William
McKellar, John
McLean, George, P. M .
McLean, John
McLean, Norman Howard
McNab, James
Menzel, William
Merrill, Isaac McGaw
Merry, Thomas
Meyer, Marcus Cauffman
Miller, James Andrew
Mires, Edward
Montealegre, Carlos Francisco
Morrison, James Renshaw
Moak, N aftaly
Nagel, Carl Siegfried GuntheiNash, Jay Thomas
Nelson, Alexander
Nelson, James Henry
Newell, Joseph
Newhouse, William Gerhart
Newman, Charles Bleistein
Nicholson, William Drake
Nicol, James
Nicolson, Harry Mcivor
Nixon, Thomas
Normand, Emile Henri
Olsson, John Olof
Oman, Eric Wm.
Osborn, Corra Mahlon
Ott, Michael George
Packer, James, Jr.
Parker, George Fi:J1derick
Parmelee, Elmer Ellsworth
Pasquale, Henry Camille
Pels, Louis Edward
Phillips, William "Enward
Plato, George Morris
Post, Ernest Mortimor
Pratt, John James
Pratt, Roy Allen

Price, Benjamin Tydfil
Price, Louis Hartwell
Price, Thomas
Raabe, Charles Edward
Raabe, Frederick Otto
Radston, Julius
Ratterree, Allen Hopper
Rawe, John Henry
Reeb, Ferdinand
Richards, Daniel Bradford
Richards, Harry Griffin
Richards, John David
Roberts, Joseph Lazarus
Robbins, Ethel Alvin
Rolls, John Sellers
Rosenfeld, Leo
Sahlein, Jules M.
Sangberg, Rudolf Ingomar
Schlesinger, Bert
Schloss, Benjamin
Schloss, Mendel Jacob
Schmalzlen, William
Schmidt, Valentine
Schmitt, Adam Albert
Schroth, Charles Albert
Schroth, John Frederick, P. M.
Schubert, Hugo George
Schuh!, Ferno
Schulz, Adolf Henry
Seibel, Frederick Lacey
Seibel, Philipp
Seike, Richard Brooker
Seiler, Adolph Paul
Seiler, Paul G. Adolphus, P M.
Sellman, Johan Alfred
Sexton, Oliver Plunket
Seidner, Philip
Shekell, Arthur Glenn
Sinclair, Henderson
Smith, Herbert Le Baron
Smith, John Henry
Smits, Henry Aldegondus Joseph
Sonneborn, Chester Arthur
Sorensen, Charles
Souli~r, Joseph

94

ROSTER

Spencer, Frank Aaron
Stahl, John Jacob
8tamey, Nelson Virgil
Stark, William Henderson
Steinman, Bernard
Stelling1 Martin
Stewart, Thomas Henry, Jr.
Straus, Auguste Lazar
Strom, John
Sullivan, Michael John
Sweeney, John Joseph
Tauszky, Edmund, P. M.
Thomas, George _Joseph
Thompson, Nathaniel
Thorpe, William James
Tillman, Leopold
'l'robock, Bartholomew Nicholas
'l'rudgett, Robert Davis
Turner, George Angell
Usher, William Henry
Van Sicklon, Frederick Wetherbee
Vensano, Harry 'Chlttenden
Vogler, Albert John Henry_

Voyce, Alfred, Jr.
\v agstaff, Thomas Hamlet
Walker, David Edwa~d
Walley, Emil Engelberth
Wallman1 Bodci Andre~ .
Walters, John }'ranklin
Ward, Herbert Foster, P. M.
Warriner, Frank Terry
Webster, Charles John
Wentworth, Benning
Whearty, Peter Franchi .
Whitcomb, Frank Randolph, P. M.
Wikander, John
Williams, John Henry
Wilson, David
Wilson, John Oliver
Wilson, Robert John
Wolff, William
Woodside, Alexander, .P. M
Woodward, George Homes ·
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Wulzen, Frederick George
Zion, Edwin Ray ·
-324

WITHDRAWN:
Hodgen, Joseph Duphuy
DIED:
Doolittle, William Graham
King, William Russell
Hyman, Presley Corbin
Petersen, Andrew
Springett, Arthur Alfred

CRESCENT LODGE, No. 45.
Crescent City, Del Norte County.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Ernest Chapman, Master,
Edwin Adam Moore, Chaplarin,
Crescent City, Cal.
Raleigh Scott Winton, Sen. Deacon
James Mitchell Hamilton, S. Ward., Herbert Vi~tor P~ice, j~~. Dea~~~,'
Lee ·Sheldon Pratt, Jun·. Ward.,
Drury White Rice, Marshal, ·
George Curtis Walton, Treasurer,
George Winfield Manly, Steward,
Greenleaf Curtis, Secretary,
Emmet Robert Stephens, Steward,
Crescent City, Cal.
Jam es Benson, Tyler.

-ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Miles, James Darrell
Moore, Edwin Adams
Morris, Samuel
McLarren, Willie Washington
McLaurin, Douglas Ca;llleron
McVay, Samuel Hutson
Nelson, Charles
Nevers, Fred Howard
Nichols, William Lucius
Pala, Charles
Payton, Earl James
.Peveler, John Randolph
Peve~er, Daniel Cassidy
Pratt, Lee Sheldon
Price, Herbert Victor
Rice, Drury Whit.e, P. M.
Rice, Charles Edgar
Richards, Fred William
Rea, Daniel
Sands, John Austin
Searmark, Stephen Henry
Snavely, Joh.n Wesley
Stephens, Emmett Robert
Stevens, Philip
Stone, Bertram, P. M.
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Suennen, .John Charles
'l'ack, Nicholas
Tryon, George Edwin
Tyler, John Alexander
Tyler, John Henry
'l'homas, Herbert Joseph
Vincent, Frank V.
Whitlow, William Allon
Winton, Raleigh Scott
Windle, Joseph
Wnll, Joseph · Aaron
Walton, George Curtis
Yarborough, Louis

Anderson, Frank Levi
Anderson, Harry
liarneburg, Abraham Aaron, P. M.
Beam, John Daniel
Benson, James
Berg, Albert Julius
Bowman, James Pierre
Brooking, James
Chapman, Charles Ernest, P. M.
Uhilds, John Leon
Childs, Leon John
Crook, Theron Webster
Crook, Asa Hamilton
Curtis, Greenleaf, P. M.
Cutler, Fletcher Arnold
Cutting, Chester Edwin, P. M.
Dudley, Orrin, P. M.
Duly, West
Dumbach, David
Edwards, David Powell
Edwards, Hugh Jones
Eherman, John Wendell
Elwell, Phylander Leighton, P. M.
Fine, Ernest Maxwell
Frame, Franklin Perry
Gibson, John Clayton
Gutsch, Herman August
Hamilton, Joseph Mitchell
Hamilton, William Hart
Hegler, Edwin Clarence
Jones; Walter James
Klinke, William August
Larson, John Grover
Lind, Frnnk
Marhoffer, Jacob
Marhoffer, Frank Mason
Marshall, William Jr.
Martin, Joseph George
Manley, George Winfield

WITHDRAWN:
Beacom, Charles Wakefield

.

-78

96

ROSTER

ROSTER

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
DeCass, Henry Edward
Shirley, Jedidiah William

MEMBERS:
Uildrnacher, Melchior
Adams, Charles Francis
Allen, John Emmet
Herrin, John David
Alm, Fred Osker
Hill, Maxwell Gaddis, P. M.
Beeve, Louis Joseph
Hill, George Washington
Beik, Henry Albert
LeGate, Horner Melbourne
Belfranci; Thomas Julius
Lilja, Andrew
Bouvier, Charles Frederick
Lord, Frederick King
Burroughs, Frank Cecil
Miller, John Barrie
Burroughs, Julian
Nivens, William Lincoln
Cannon, Albert C.
Price, Gabriel William
C)happell, Walhice Horner, P. M.
Parker, Hiram Edward
<'on well, Henry Asbury
Schultz, William John, P. M
Cox, William David
Smullin, Samuel Nesbit Dallas
Crandall, Abraham Lincoln
Stocker, Edmund
Curtis, Benjamin Franklin
Wagner, Frank B.
.Wickman, Fred William
Daley, Garret Clarence
Finch, John Milton
-33
DIED:
Lisbon, Joseph Libero
Twogood, Gaylord Smith Wesley

DIED:

Hunt, Johnathan Winchester

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
San Juan, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Ashley, James Henderson, P. M.
Laederich, Walter Oscar
Ball, Jau Don
Morton, Frank
Bullier, Leon
Miles, James
Bumpus, James Walter
Moore, Arthur Smith, P. M.
Burnett, William Fletcher
Moore, George Holmes, P. M.
Burnett, Clarence Elbert
Moore, Irvin Webster, P. M.
Canfield, William Walton, P. M.
Norton, Roscoe Greene, P. M.
Canfield, Samuel Russell
Regan, Mark Joseph
Flint, Benjamin
Regan, Mark Joseph, Jr.
Flint, Thomas, P. G. M.
Regan, William George
Flint, Richard Hall
Slaysman, Charles Reese
Flint, William Read, P. M.
Stewart, Archibald
Flint, Robert Winchester
Warner, Curtiss Grub
Forrester, Arthur Bruce
Welch, Harry
Kemp, Frederick William
Wilcox, Joseph Sylvester

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.
Colfax, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
-30

DIED:

Ashby, Joshuy Louis

IJ7

Mitchell, George Francis ·

FORBESTOWN LODGE, No. 50.
Forbestown, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William John Schultz,' Master,
John David Herrin, Sen. Deacon,
Clipper Mills, Cal.
John Barrie Miller, Jun. Deacon,
.Fred Osker Alm, Sen. Warden,
Hiram Edward Parker, Marshal,
Frank B. Wagner, Jun. Warden,
Henry Asbury Conwell, Steward,
Garret Clarence Daley, Treasurer, Fred William Wickman, Steward,
C:1arles Francis Adams, Secretary, George Washington Hill, Tyler.
Clipper Mills, Cal.

OFFICERS:
.'\ubrey Lee Wisker, Master,
Harry Fred Holmshaw, Sen. Deac.,
Colfax, Cal.
Horace Benj. Wanzer, Jun. Deac.,
Frank Earl Miner, Sen. Ward.,
Darius Valmore Norton, Marshal,
John Herman Williams, Jun Ward., Charles Andrew Geesendorfer, Stew.,
Edgar Delancy Miner, Steward,
George Edward West, Treas.,
Morris Lobner, Secretary,
Dirk Vinkemulder, Tyler.
Colfax, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Gersendorfer, Charles Andrew
Ackerman, Francis Marion
Gersendorfer, John
Beaser, Percy McLeod
Gersendorfer, George
Bissett, William Nelson
Gersendorfer, William Paul
Booth, Newton Elmer
Ghent, Byron James
Cahjew, Seland
Gibson, Allen Wade
Edwards, Richard
Hallock, Robert F. Lattimer
Ewers, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Henry, Alexander Culberson
Palcone!', Duncan, P. M.
7

ROSTER

98

Hayford, William Barrows, P. M.
.l:Iayford, James Barrows
Holmshaw, Harry Fred
Jones, Frank Ellis
Lobner, Morris, P. M.
Lobner, Henry
McCleary, John Blain
McGrow, Denis Joseph
Miner, Edgar Delancy
Mmer, Frank Earl
Maginn, Patrick Henry
Morrison, Robert Gordon
Ncide:ffer, John Fleming
Nicholls, Robert Alfred
Norton, Darius Valmore, P. M.
Peers, Robert Alway, P. M .
Raymon<l, Percy Miles
Reeder, George Avery
Rondoni, Aguilero

~os~;. I. Elmer
Russell, Daniel A.
Russell, Melvin
Schultze, Frederick Henry
Scott, Enoch Everett
Sewell, Thomas John
Smith, Albert Halliday
Stevens, Amos, P. M.
Theiss, Henry Daniel
Vore, Edmund
Wanzer, Horace Benjamin
West, George Edward, P. M.
Wt'st, James Edward
Wiesler, William Henry
Williams, John Herman
Williamson, James Raycroft
Wisker, Aubrey Lee
Yoder, John Franklin

-53

DIED :
Booth, Garrett

SUISUN LODGE, No. 55.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon
Suisun, Solano County.
OFFICERS:

\Valter Eugene Aylesworth, Master, Joseph Robert Chadbourne, Jr.,
Suisun, Cal.
S cnior Deacon,
Samuel Gant Bransford, Sen. Ward., Kenneth lnskip Jones, Jimior Deacon,
Emile Bowdoin Potter Kemp, J. W ., Gilbert Russell J ones, Marshal,
Edgar Ernest Long, TreasHrer,
Winifred Corydon Sheldon, Steward,
Daniel H. White, Srcretar·y,
Kendall Clifton Keene, Steward,'
Fairfield, Cal.
Wesley Jedediah Haines, Tyler.
Brenton Rupel Stewart, Chap'lain,
MEMBERS:
Brown, John Stewart
Alen, William Edward
Brown, William Bernard
Aylesworth, Walter Eugene
Ccrkel, Wolf
.
Barnett, Samuel Robert, P. M.
Chadbourne, Joseph Robert Jr.
Batchelder, Harlan Willard
Cornish, George Oney
Berner, August
Crone, George Thomas
Bills, William Clarence
Danielson, Joseph Barbour
Bransford, Samuel Gant

Danuser, Peter
Davisson, William Gustavus, P. M •
Davisson, William Sherman
Dinkelspiel, Meyer, P. M.
Downing, William Everts
Downing, William Green
Elliot, Harvey R. ·
Fallman, Charles Emery
Freeman, William Joseph
Getz, Horace Eshelman
Gregory, Thomas T. C.
Guill, Etna Ewing
Haile, John William
Haines, Wesley Jedediah
Hale, William Crosby
Harbor, John Franklin
11 arfleet , Alfred Erneat
Hart, Frank Russell
Hays, Ira Condit Kennedy
Hilborn, Edward Payson
Hildebrand, William Sherman
Hoyt, William Kimball
Hunter, Ely James
.Jones, Gilbert Russell, P. M.
Jones, Kenneth Ins kip
Keene, Kendall Clifton
Kemp, Emile B. P.
Loeser, Carl Frederick
Long, Edgar Ernest
Lucks, Gustav Heinrich
Mabry, Albert Thomas
Macrandrias, Elias
Malchi, John
Martin, Lucius D.
Mason, Daniel Newton
Mayfield, Charles Edgar
McCormack, Duncan W.
Miller, Allen Charles, P. M.
Miller, George Carlyle
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Morrill, Frederick Lewis
Murray, John Houston, P. M.

Nichoison, John Richard
Oberti, Joseph
Paulson, Edwin Lauritz
Pierce, William
Polland, James Samuel
Pope, Frank
Prather, James Hiram, P. M.
Reed, Albert Levi, P. M:
Richardson, Jerome Bonaparte, P.M.
Robbins, John Lloyd McC.
Robbins, Ruel Drinkwater, Jr., P. M.
'Rummelsburg, Alexander
Rush, Benjamin Franklin
Rush, Frederick Winn
Salisbury, Reuben B.
Scarlett, Samuel
Sheldon, Winifred Corydon
Sheldon, Ralph Merriman, P. M.
Shorey, Sumner A.
Spence, James Underhill, P. M.
Sprague, Stanley
Stellar, Louis Palmer
Stephens, William Bell
Stewart, Brenton Rupel, P. M.
Stewart, Edgar L.
Stewart, Frank Edgar
Taber, Charles Lincoln
Tomasini, Guiliano
Van De Mark, Lester Winsor
Votypka, John
Watkins, Wilbur Kemble
Weidner, Ernest
Weinberger, Marcus
Wetmore, Chester
Wells, Roy Johnson
White, Daniel H.
Wills, Carl Theodore
Willson, Robert Martin
Wilson, John Andrew
Wood, Frederick Diemer
Woods, Robert Henry
Woods, Warren Anthony
-98

WITHDRAWN:
Parke, Robert Walter

ROSTER

100

ROSTER

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Binker, John Charles
Bailey, Thomas Brixius
DIED:
Finney, Henry Edward

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56.
Volcano, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
Hughes, Samuel
Adams, Alexander
Lehn, Albert
Berry, Albert
Mason, Warren Quincy, P. M
Boydston, Elmer David, P. M.
McLane, Wm. Chester
Bradshaw, Clarence, P. M.
McLaughlin, A. W.
Cook, Henry W.
Miller, Louis F.
Cook, Lewis Horton
Nichols, Clarence G.
Delucchi, Tony ·
Payton, Lee F.
Denend, Griffith
Real, Antone Lewis
Fessel, William Edward
Rinehart, Ottis Wash
FisJier, David, Jr.
Ryan, William
Giannini, Domenico
Santirfo, Edward R., P . M.
Giannini, James
Ubbens, Herman Michael, P. M.
Glenn, William Jay
Wallenburg, Charles
Grillo, John Batista
Webster, Ottis Lincoln
-30
Hamilton, James

SANTA ROSA LODGE, No. 57.
Santa Rosa, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings,' first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Eugene Lee, Master,
Martin Braughler, Chaplain,
106 Third Street.
Hubert Wallace Beardin, Sen. Deac.,
Frederick Oran Reeder, Sen. Ward., Robert Albert Taffinder, Jun. Deacon,
Willard Bert Flint, !mi. Wardm,
Walter Lee Whitaker, Ma"rshal,
Charles Dwight Barnett, Treasurer, Harry Paul Fish, Steward,
William Henry Pool, Secretary,
Augustus Leander Lee, Steward,
819 Second Street.
Charles Bernard Kohes, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Acton, William
Burgess, James Floyd
Ahrens, William Martin
Bu.r nett, Albert G., P . M.
Andrews, George Ewing
Burris, Frank Marion
Arnold, Amasa W.
Burris, Luther William
Ayers, George Lemuel
Burris, Shirley David
Cable, Isaac Newton
Bailey, Jesse William
Baker, Geo. Thomas
Campbell, John Tyler, P. M.
Ballard, Benjamin Franklin, P. M. Carpenter, Cecil Moore
Bane, Charles Hamilton
Carter, Daniel Putnam
Bane, Frank Preston
Castlen, Edward Bowdra
Barnett, Charles Dwight, P . M.
Cellar, Geo. Ray
Beardin, Hubert Wallace
Cline, Henry Christian, P. M.
Belden, Benjamin Clinton
Colgan, George Washington
Belden, Charles Clinton
Cooper, Earl Ray
Belden, Ralph Austin
Cooper, Eugene Marcus
Belden, Roy Eugene
Cox, Exum Morris, P. M.
Benjamin, William Edward
Crane, Alexander Thomas
Bennett, James Augustus
Craw, Albert Benjamin
Benson, William
Crawford, Edwin Henry
Berka, Frank
Crawford, Richard Fruit
Bernstein, Isaac William
Curtis, George Alexander
Bertolani, Peter America
Davis, Walter Scott
Birch, Russell James
Davis, William David
Bockelmann, Fernando Gerhard C. Dessau, Henry Ferdin!!-nd
Bocly, Fred N.
Dillard, Daniel Warren
Doda, Battista Giovanni
Body, Mark, P. M.
Dohn, George Arthur
Boehmer, John
Dohn, George Ernest ·
Bogle, Samuel Saffell
Dondero, John B.
Bonar, Robert M.
Doran, William James
Bonney, Alfred Truscott
Dougherty, Samuel Kimmel
Bowers, Herbert Andrews
Downes, Ernest
Bowers, Nathan Abbott
Downey, Abner David
Boyes, John Moses
Duncan, James Parker
Bradley, James Edward
Braughler, Martin
Einhorn, Joseph Herman
Egbert, Warren
Broadwell, Chas. Stanley
Erwin, Albert Orland
Brooks, Milton Jay
Finley, Harrison
Bronson, Eugene Grant
Brown, Arthur DeWitt
Fish, Harry Paul .
Brown, Bennie
Fitts, John Perry
Brown, William Elias
Flint, Wlllard Bert
Bruning, Christopher Henry Wm.
Flouraud, Matthieu
Bryant, Allen
Forsyth, Henry Mizer
Bumbaugh, Charles Martin, P. M.
Fountain, Orlando

JOI

102

Foye, George Frederick
Frank, Nels Christensen
Franklin, Job Henry Richard.
French, Charles Franklin
Frey, Peter
Fryer, Roy
Fulwider, Lucien Edgar
Gilliam, Samuel Jackson
Glynn, Francis J. Bonaparte
Goodman, Leopold Solomon
Goodman, William Howard
Gray, Woodard Martin
Green, Lincoln D.
Greene, Willis Elihu
Grobe, Fred
.
Guerne, George Emil
Hahman, Henry Gustav
Hardie, Albert Milton
Harden, Ephraim
Hatch, Irvin Clifton
Haven, Clarence
Herrick, Albert Benjamin, P. M.
Hicks·, James Oliver
Hockin, William
Hosmer, Stanley
Hosmer, Winslow Simon
Hou ts, Orrie L.
Hoyt, Jesse Douglas
Hurlstone, Richard Brain
Hutchinson, Thomas Johnson
Hutchison, Lawrence
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Charles
Jacobs, Himmi.e W.
Jesse, James William
Johnson, Andrew
Johnston, Fred L.
Jones, William
Jordan, Leslie Agostine
Juell, Nils Roth Heyerdahl
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Kennedy, Charles Alexander
Kobes, Charles Bernard, P. M.
Kohler, Louis Wm.
Korbel, Anton Francie

ROSTER

ROSTER
Korbel, Leo Victor
Kurlander, Irving Sol
Lafranchi, Massimino
Lane, Carlton Alpheus, P. M .
Lark, Newton Allen
Laughlin, Alex. Douglas; P. M.
Laughlin, John McGill, P. M
Lawson, Lewis B.
Le Baron, Hollis Wright
Lee, Augustus Leander
Lee, Charles Eugene
Leete, Orton
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, P. M
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, Jr.
Lemmon, Fred Gage
Leslie, John, P. M.
Lewis, Edmund Phelps
Lewis, George Washington
Loomis, Frank Clemens
Loronzen, Peter
Loynahan, Th~mas Earle
Luce, Arthur Sprague
.Luce, George Liddle
MacGregor, Allan P.
Mackenzie, Allan Ramsey
Mailer, James Clark, P. M.
Mailer, James Thompson, P. M.
Mailer, John Robb
Mallory, George Washington,. P. M.
Malott, Howard Oliver
·
Martin, David Elliott
McConnell, William Ellitt
McDannell, Benjamin Franklin
McDonald, Mark Lindsey, Jr.
McKinlay, Duncan E.
McLeod, James Harvey
McMeans, Alexander Campbell, P.M.
McNab, Arthur Victor, P. M.
McNab, John Liddell
McNee, Royal John Hunter
Meisner, Chas. Henry
Meneray, Prince Albert
Mercier, John Louis
Merritt, Edson CharleR
Miller, Thomas Boone

Mobley, John Elmer
Moke, Henry Herbert
Moodey, Ress Clarence
Morgan, William Cochrane
Mortenson, Hans
Nagle, Frederick Gough
Near, Christopher David
Nimmo, John Hanson
Oates, James Wyatt
Overton, John Patton
Paddo'ck, Doctor John
Page, David Cooper, P. M.
Palmer, George Washington
Patton, Dexter
Paxton, Blitz Wright
Percy, James
Peterson, Raford Wesley
Peterson, William Wilson
Phillips, Edward James
Phillips, Thomas Lester
Piggott, James Kenneth
Pool, William Henry
Porep, Walter Putnam
Potter, Eber Ward
Pryor, Fredd Orlando
Randall, Chester Earl
Reading, George Joseph
Reeder, Frederick Oran
Reeve, Orson Henry
Reutershan, Max
Rhoades, Samuel
Robinson Benjamin Meritt
Rogers, Carroll Bishop
Rosenberg, Fred Sig.
Rosenberg, Max
Ross, Henry J., P. M.
Ross, John
Ross, Thomas Daniel
Rowan, James Hamilton
Salisbury, George Washington
Savage, George Walter
Sawyer, Elbert Ransom, P. M.
Scott, Alfred William
Seawell, Emmet
Seegelken1 .Johan Wilhelm

Shaffer, Reuben fl:·
Shaffer, Wilber Emmet
Shaw, Wiiliam
Shearer, William Piper, P. M
Shriver, Nathan
Simpson, Willie Burton, P. M.
Sinclair, Henry George
Slater, George Herbert Waite
Smith, John Calhoun
Smith, John Kinder
Smith, Wilson Clate
Souther, Charles Hamilton
Speegle, Madison Monroe
Spencer, Byron M.
Staley, Wayne Snoden
Steele, John Ernest
Steiner, Frederick Charles
Stewart, Charles William
Stewart, John Hudson
Summers, William Henry
Sweet, James Sylvester
Taffinder, Robert Alfred
Taylor, Charles DeWitt
Taylor, John Shackleford
Temple, Jackson
Thomas, George Perry
Thompson, James Monroe
Thorson, Jesse Fremont
Tripp, Hiram Lewis, P. M.
Trowbridge, Harold Augustus
Tupper, George Anderson
Underhill, William Henry
Underwood, Charles Howard
Upp, Arthur Frank
Vanderhoof, Martin Van Buren
Van Wormer, Clement Harry
Vaughan, Marvin Thomas, P. M.
Wagner, Theodore F. C.
Ware, Allison Burr, P. M.
Warboys, John Walter
Ward, Charles S.
Ward, William Burchard
Wasserman, Milton Lesem
Waters, Albert Reuben
Waters, Herbert Joseph

103

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER

!04
West, Wilbur Samuel
Wetche, Chrestian Fredrik
Whitaker, Walter Lee, P. M.
Wilson, Frank Raymond
Wines, William Freeman, P. M.

Wolfe, George
Woolley, William Fredrick
Yarnell, William I.
Yoho, Samuel R.
-277

WITHDRAWN:
Cunningham, Charles S.
Nye, Berthold Max
Perrier, Charles Reginald
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Stark, Leonard H.
DIED:
*Gilman, Lewell Jesse
Elliott, John
Farmer, Christopher Columbus
McMinn, John, Sr.
Finley, William Asa
Smyth, Newton Yan Yleit
Wiles, John Marshall
•Restored during the year.

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Franklin Benjamin Klinsorge,Master, Michael Fried, Chaplain,
Masonic Temple, Sacramento, Cal. Jesse Percival Bascom, Sen. Deacon,
George Leslie Baxter, Sen. Warden, John Walter Tyler, Jun. Deacon,
Mallory Exavia Enos, Jun. Warden, Cordon Lewis Pardee, Marshal,'
Charles Albert Root, Treasurer,
Charles Francis Nehrbass, Steward,
Edward Frederick Willi, Secretary, l\falcolm Cadien Glenn, Steward,
Box 25, Sacramento, Cal.
Joel Osgood Wilder, Sr., Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Beere, Gilbert Pennington
Allen, John Francis
Alexander, Robert, P. M.
Bennett, Alfred Ernest
Berriesford, Ralph
Arnold, Frederick William
Bening, William Fr~derick
Arnold, Horace Douglas
Blauth, TheobaM
Baker, Thomas John, P. M.
Bliss, Sidney
Baldwin, William Hedges, P. M.
Bloomer, Fred 'k Rutherford Miller
Barnard, Morse
Boltz, Peter Sauser
Bauer, John Jacob Rock
Brooke, Morris
Bauman, Benjamin Stephen
Bascom, Jesse Percival
Bruederly, William Sherman
Baxter, George Leslie
Buckmann, Frederick William

Huell, Daniel Siddle
Gray, Frank Livingston
Burnside, Thomas Seth
Green, Alexander Scott
Butler, Drury DeWolf
Grimes, Allen Lawrence
Butler, John Winchel Spencer
Grinton, John Kennedy
Hyers, Robert Hopkins
Haas, Nelson Willoughby
Carlaw, Andrew
Handlin, William Joseph
Carnes, Edward Kentner
Harbinson, James, P. M.
Casselman, Anso11. Adam
Harbinson, James George
Clark, William Edward
Hart, Aden Cavins
Clauss, John
Harvey, Edwin Henry, P. M.
Clement, Louis Metzler
Hecker, Sidney
Coats, William Demmond, Jr.
Heitman, John Henry
Colclough, Dudley K.
Henrich, Karl
Colclough, Ralph Miller
Hill, Charles Edward, P. M.
Cooledge, Isaac Baldwin, P. M.
Hicks, William Arthur
Coyne, William
Hicks, John Benton
Darrow, Albert Lincoln
Hirsch, Philip
Davies, John Gault
Hoffman, Daniel Webster, P. M.
Denson, Samuel Crawford, P. G. M. Hopkins, Owen Griffith
Huntington, Thomas Waterm11n
Douglas, William Wallace, P. M.
Dreyer, Rasmus Peter Neilson
Husted, William Joseph
Eckhardt, William Henry
Ingham, Harry
Egeberg, Julius Columbus
Jenkins, Morris Arthur
Eichrodt, Max ·
Johnson, Howard Kennedy, P. M.
Ellis, Henry Emilus Augustus
Jones, Charles Edward
Ellsworth, William Munn
Jones, Oscar G., P. M.
Ellsworth Charles Henry
Jones, Samuel ' Hart
Enos, Mallory Exavia
Joy, Robert
Enwright, Thomas Lincoln
Judson, Frederick Walter
Feldhusen, John Henry
Kay, Edgar John
Ferguson, James Henry, P. M.
Kellam, William Henry Browning
Fical, Charles Augustus
Kendrick, Colin
Fifield, Lewis La Marena
Kerr, Howard Dixon
Fitch, William Cyrus
Keyes, Homer Frost
Forney, Henry Hinkle
King, George Edward
Ford, Quincy Albertis
Kleinsorge, Frank Benjamin
Fourness, Eli
Kloppenburg, Daniel William
Fox, David Franklin
Koch, Carl
Fried, Michael
Krebs, Harry Garfield
Gallaway, Alfred Russell
Lambert, Richard Hobart
Gardiner, Alexander John, P. M.
Lamphrey, Charles Westley
Gerson, Samuel
Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Gleie, Harry Ernest
Lightner, Bonus
Glenn, Malcolm Cadien
Lindsley, Albert
Gordon, William Henry
Little, Christopher

105

106

ROSTER

Longton, Alfred Thomas
Longton, Thomas Henry
Loorya, David Solomon
Lowe, Eugene Clem
Marshall, Joseph Owen
McCormick, Frank
McCulloch, James
McFall, Henry Lee
McGregor, John
McKay, Daniel
Meister, George Albert, P. M .
Meister, Albert Rheinhardt
Meyer, Hermm
Meyer, .Johann Gerhard
Mitau, Henry
Mitchell, P. Albert
Moore, .James Hoskins, P. M
Moore, Frederick William
Morgan, .John Franklin, P . M.
Morrill, Frank Orio
Morrison, James Matthew
Morshead, William
Morehead, Philip
Moulton, Dwight Augustus
Nathan, Aaron
Nathan, Isador Carroll
Nehrbass, Charles Ftanklin
Newman, Peter
Newman, George
Nicolaus, Henry Joseph, Jr.
Noack, Charles John
Noack, Carl William Gustave
Norris, John Gwinn
Nourse, Sterling Boyden
Oltman, Charles
Oughton, William George
Pardee, Cordon Lewis, P. M.
Peacocke, William
Phipps, William Thomas, P. M.
Pope, Edwin Alexander
Potter, Loyal Abner
Prince, .Joseph William
Pugh, Charles Lorenza
Randle, George Nelson
Redington, Alfred Augustus, P. M.

Reed, George B.
Reid, Thomas Benton
Rego, Edward Sutherland
Richards, William Freeman
Rickett, W~lter .L.
Robbins, .James Aldrich
Root, Charles Albert, P. M.
Ross, Charles Francjs
Ross, George Rex
Ruhstaller, Frank Joseph
Rydberg, Herman Gustof
Schmid, Emii
Schroedcr,Richard Franklin
Schwap, William
Scott, William
Shaw, Ira Clark
Sheldon, William Chauncey
Shepstone, George Ebenezer ·
Shinkle, James William
Simmons, Samuel, P. M.
Simon, Max
Smith, .John Edward
Smith, William Penn
Smith, Samuel Augustus
Stich, Harry Leo, P. M.
Stevens, Fred Andrew
Stevenson, Henry Llewellyn
Swain, Frank Russell
Swift, Charles .Judson
•reichert, Adolph
Teichert, Adolph, .Jr.
Theile, Ernest Arden
Thompson, Irvin
Tolernan, Frank Augustus
•rozer, Charles Walter
Truman, George· Clarence
Turner, Eldridge CurtS
Twitchell, Edward Woodland
Tyer, John Walter
Uhl, George Adam
Uren, Stephen
Uren, John Martin
Van Epen, Morrius Cornelius
Van Fleet, William Carey
Vaughn, Edward

ROSTER
Wahl, Edward .
Wahlander, Charles Georg~
Walker, William Craig
Wallace, Edward Lee Roy
Wallace, Joseph ·F illmore
Welch, Benjamin.
Welch, Frank Cummings
Welch, George Henry
Westlake, William Henry
Weston, Arthur Melville
White, Charles Corbet
White, George Amos, P. M.
White, .John Lysander
White, William George
Willi, William George
Willi, E_d ward Frederick, P. M.

Williams, George Elforu
Williams, Ri<'hard G.
Wilson, Benno, P. M.
Wilson, .James .John
Wilson, Jesse Warren
Wilder, Joel Osgood, Sr.
Wilder, .Joel Osgood, Jr.
Wilder, Edwin Milton
Witham, Gilbert Tapley
Wolf, Edward
Wood, Richard R.
Wright, Ralph
Yoerk, Charles Augustus
Young, Leo Herbert
Younger, Andrew

-233

WITHDRAWN:
McKeever, Francis May
Abrams, David
l~erre, Albert Eames
McCormack, Charles

DIED:
Steffens, Joseph
Stoddard, George Allen
Welch, George Deake

GRAVEL RANGE LODGE, No. 59.
Camptonville, Yuba. County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

David Lewis, Chaplain,
Harold Nelson, Master,
Camptonville, Cal.
Franklin Millard Groves, S en. Deac. ,
William Bull Meek, Senior Warden, Joseph Paul Pendola, Jun. Deaco11,
Earl Leroy Cleveland, Jun. Ward., Samuel Boardman Johnson, Marshal,
Benjamin Leroy Hames, Treas.,
Thomas Jackson Byrd, Steward,
Rollin Carlisle Groves, Secretary,
Alfred Anderson, Steward,
Camptonville, Cal.
Peter Mondada, Tyler.
Anderson, Alfred
Blanchard, Milton A.
Bristow, John William
Byrd, Thomas Jefferson
Cleveland, Earl Leroy, P. M.
Dutra, Antone Edward

MEMBERS:
Eich, Harvey Dixon
Feiss, John William
Groves, Franklin Millard; P. M.
Groves, Rollin Carlisle
Hames, Benjamin LeRoy, P. M.
.Johnson, Samuel Boardman

108

ROS·fER
ROSTER

Kennady, Charles Hampton
Kennady, John Henry, P. M.
Kendall, Edward C.
Lake, George Wesley
Lewis, David
Lawrence, Richard K.
Meek, Wm. Bull, P. M.
Merriam, James Chester
Mondada, Peter

Moss, Clarence Eugene
Nelson, Harold, P. M.
Pendola, Joseph Paul
Phillips, John William
Reese, Thomas Devonald
Scott, James Warren
Simmons, William
Watts, Jeremiah, P . M .'

-29

DIED:
Lewis, Francis

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.
Quincy, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Henry Stephen, Sen. Deacon,
Qumcy, Cal.
Melville Mcintosh, Junior Deacon
Beverly F. Barber, Senior Warden, Herbert Felix Hail Marshal
'
Michael Charles Kerr, Jun. Ward., Harold Holmes W~terhouse,' Stew.,
Henry George Dorsch, Treasurer,
Henry Loring Cate, Steward,
Jacob. Ncseman Stephen, Secretary, George Wilson, Tyler,
Qumcy, Cal.

Leopold, Asa Freudenthal
Little, Joseph Moss
Macdonald James Neil
Mac Nair, Wm. Dennie
Malcolm, William
McBeth, Horace Park, P. M.
Mccomas, William Pratt
Mcintosh, Melville
McLennan, Kenneth
Moncur, James Oglevie, P. M.
Myers, Charles Snider
Omand, James
Palmer, Gilbert
Robertson, Arthur William
Robertson, Don·ald James
Robertson, Frank Duncan
Robinson, James Frederick

Rogers, Harvey Pue
Sommers, John Benjamin
Spooner, John Franklin, P. M.
Stephan, Jake Neseman
Stephen, George Henry
Stewart, Robert
Strite, George A.
Sylvester, Frank Edwin
Thomas, Arthur Howe
Thompson, Charles Russell
Wagner, Lewis Herman
Walsh, Frank Denton
Webb, Ulysses Siegel
Wells, George Clifford
Wilson, George, P. M.
Wilson, John Evette
Walter, John William
-70

Henr~ Jean Hoffman, Master,

Arnold, Harry William
Barber, Beverly Fielden
Barrett Louis Archa
Beckley, Harry
Berg, Arthur · Clarence
Bolton, Manzanita Benjamin
Byers, Wm. Thomas
Cato, Henry Loring
Cate, LaFayette
Chambers, Robert
Clinch, William John
Clough, Leon Lowell, P. M.
Dorsch, Henry George
Dunham, Allen Murry
Eisner, David
Ford, Walter Jackson
Felleman, John Irving
Garner, Edward

MEMBERS:
Gifford, John
Goodwin, Samuel Daniel
Gray, Asa White, P. M.
Hail, Felix Grundy
Hail, Herbert Felix
Hanvey, Charles Brace Hewitt
Harling, Fred
Hoffman, Henry Jean
Hollister, Albert Guy
Johnson, Frank Evan
Jones, Wm. Robert
Keddie, Arthur Walter, P. M.
Kerr, Michael Charles
Kling, Louis Albert Henry, P. M.
Koonter, Robert Fred
Kyle, Krusor Kane
.
Leek, Joseph Lewis
Lasswell, Bert J·a mes

LIVE OAK LODGE, No. 61.
. Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)
Abbott, Cyrus Wm.
Aberneth'y, William Job,n
Adams, Henry Hamilton
Adams, John Elmer
Aiken, Benjamin Rosell
Akerly, James Clark Smith
Akins, Edward Charles
Allen, Alex. McMillan
Allyn, Burton Uharles
Amaden, Ralph J.
Andersen, Magnus Alfred
Anderson, Charles Alfred
Anderson, Charles John
Anderson, Harry Severin
Andrews, Charles William
Angwin, James Alfred
Angwin, William Stanley
Arper, George Washington

10!1

MEMBERS:
Arrowsmith, William H.
Atkinson, Thomas Albion
Austin, Harry
Avery, Mark Herbert
Avery, Frank Herbert
Bachelder, Carl Ames
Badgley, William Oscar
Baggot, Ed Protzman
Bahls, Richard
Baker, Abel Warren Jr.
~aker, David Franklin
Baker, Eugene Hall
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Ball, Clinton Cory
Ball, Charles Henry
Bandy, George Lewis
Barnes, William Chauncey
Barnes, William Holland

110

Bartram, Robert Washington
Bauer, Jacob
Baumgartner, August Christoph
Beach, Ranson Elias
Beauregard, Lorenzo
Beckwith, Herbert
Beckwith, John Allison, J>. M.
Behlen, William Allen
Bennett, Robert Howard
Bennetts, Charles Dnniel
Beretta, Italo Andrew
Bergsten, Oscar Paulus
Betts, .Tames Ernest
Bibber, Thomns Benjamin
Bice, John
Bird, Charles Gladstone
Bistorious, Albert
Bistorious, George Albert
Blair, George Washington
Blanchard, Eugene
Blasdel, Francis Gaines
Blasdel, Harry Vance, J>. M.
Blood, William Frank
Boardman, Joseph
Boldt, William Lewis
Boland, Archie Frederick
Bolza, William
Borgeson, Charles John
Borland, William J ames
Borton, Chester Cooper
Borton, Earl Clifford
Bostwick, Henry
Botsford, Edwin Russell
Bowers, Charles Levi
Bowersmith, John Everett
Bradley, Arthur .Tames
Bradway, Frank Fernando
Brady., Edward James
Braun, Nathaniel Henry
Brazelton, Warren Buck
Brigham, Edward Belmont
Broadwater, Edward Sproul
Broadwater, William Elgin
Brooks, Frank Howard, J>, M.
Brown, Norris James

ROSTER

ROSTER
Brown, William· Mainland, Jr.
Buc.kley, Frank Elijah
Bullock, Richa:rol Steele
Burch, George Emerson
Burt, Frede!·ick Leslie
Burtchael, Samuel Waters
Bush, Harry Charles, P. M.
Buteau, Samuel Hawkins
Byers, Louis Thomas
Campbell, James
Campbell, John
Capwell, Harris Cebert
Carlton, Harry Putnam
Castell, Clarence Whitney
Chamberlin, Edward Aaron
Chamberlin, William Richmond
Chambers, Wilfred Ernest
Chandler, Frank Melvin
Chapman, George Hawke
Chappel, Robert Newell
Chesnut, John Augustus
Church, Lincoln Sheridan
Clark, David Allan
Clark, Marion
Clayton, William Burt
Cloud, Archibald Jeter
Cockerton, Daniel Henry
Cockerton, George Albert
Coffin, Herbert
Coffin, Oliver Cromwell
Colegrove, John Albert
Collier, John Henry
CoTquhoun, Joseph Alexanoler
Cooley, Milton Van Horn
Condues, William Konstantine
Conradi, Philip
Cook, John P eter
Cook, Peter
Cook, William Coleman
Corder, Walter Edgar
Cornell, Daniel Jefferson
Cotter, Fred Martin
Cotter, Ralph Evans
Cowan, Frank Ernest
Craft, Richard Corson

Cramer, Adolph Edward Henry
Cramer, Guido Detlef
Urane, George Richard
Crane, William Whitfield
Orellin, Thomas Arthur
Crocker, Horace Alvin
Cron, William Jr.
('r ook, Oliver
Cross, Ralph Herbert
Crowell, Clarence Elwin
Culver, William Lee
Curdts, Carl Edward
Curtis, Earl W.
Curtis, Frederick Charles
Dnlton:, Frank Norris, J>. M.
Dalton, Henry, Norris
Davies, Charles Percival
l>avis, James Edward
Davis, Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Judson Milton
Dean, Beach Humphrey
Dean, William Edward
Decoto, Ezra William
Deering, Chester
DeGolia, Edwin Baldwin
Depoy, James Alstott, .Tr.
Derrick, George Henry
Dieckmann, John Henry
Dietz, H enry LouiQ
Dinesen,· Jacob Nissen
Dingle, Alfred
Dixon, George
Dodge, Clarence Wythe
Dodge, Guy Edward
Dodge, Henry Arthur
Doell, Carl Theodore
Doig', Rolin. Wallace
Dorman, Charles Goodyear
Dornin, George William, P. M.
Drew, Edwin Pierce
DuBois, Percy Hamilton
Dunn, Leslie Budd
Earhart, Earl
'
Eby, John Douglas
Edoff, James P.

,Edson, Judson Henry
Edwards, Edward
Elfen, Harry Edward
Emerson, Mark Lewis
English, Wallace Grundy
Engs, Otis Webb
Engvick, Clarence Edgar
Evans, Robert Griffith
Ewer, Edwa,rd Norton
Faller, Charles Henry
~'alvey, John Richard
Farish, Robert Roy
Farrington, Elvin Dunn
Farwell, Oney Melv.i n
Fassett, James Sherman
Fernhof, Frederick James
Flather, Robert Bruce
Fletcher, J<'rancis Alden
Flint, George Mooar
Flora, Charles Aaron
Ford, Charles Wallace
Forrest, Sterling Price, Jr.
~·orsyth, Geo!'ge Thomas
Fortin, Octavius Victor
Fortin, Victor Lazarus
Fossing, John Charles
Foster, Granville Franklin
Foster, Henry Emerson
Foster, Newel Kelley
Fox, Fre<l Kinsman
France, Henry Wallace
Frnncis, Leon Chapman
Fraser, Loud Scott
Frederickson, John Gottfried
Frederick, Clarence John
Frederick, Walter Flemming
French, Robert Ellsworth
Fritsch, Emil
Frost, William Thomas
Furniss, Herbert Olmsted
Garibaldi, William Joseph
Gattrell, Frank Jerome
Gauge, William Arthur
Gee, Edgar Frederick
Gelder, David

Jll

112
Gelder, John
George, Elias Overman
Gibbs, Alfred Kane
Gilbert, Ethan Allen
Glascock, John Ragland, P. M.
Glenn, Alexander Glenn
Glenn, John Quinn
Golton, James Thomas
Good, Carl Edward
Goodwin, Robert Henry
Gorrill, Chester Lawrence
Grant, George
Grauss, Benjamin Franklin
Gray, George Adam
Gray, Harry Paul
Gray, Martin Luther
Green, Harry Elmer Elsworth
Green, Jacob Samuel
Greene, Samuel Hartley
Greenebaum, William Bernard
Greenwell, William Matthew
Griffin, Edmund Wait
Griffin, Henry T.
Griffith, William Edwin
Griswold, Lee Swaney
Gross, William G. C.
Gulick, Charles Francis, P. M.
Gustafsen, Crest
Hack, George Dalliba
Hack, John Joseph
Haelke, Helwig Leopold
Hafner, Emile Charles
Haggard, Joseph Louis
Hahn, James Dyer
Haight, Horace Howard
Hall, Charles Frederick
Hall, Edward Masser, Jr.
Hall, Ellis Gray
Hall, Hiram Tubbs
Hall, Joseph Lee
Hall, Leon Eugene
Hall, Norman Walter
Hall, Percy Weller
Hall, Samuel Pike
Hnmmond, B~nnett W.

ROSTER

ROSTER
Hammond, Frederick William
Hanmore, George Albright
Hansen, John
Hanson, Claude Melnotte
Hanson, Samuel Gray
Hardenbergh, Percy Brush
Hardwick, Edward Newcomb
Harlan, Robert Judkin
Harlow, William Sturtevant
Harris, Joseph Charles
Hart, Edward Henry, P. G. M.
Harvey, Norval Playfair
Haselbacher, Louis Charles
Hatfield, William Richy, P._M.
Haven, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hawbaker, Clayton Henry
Hawley, Stuart Samuel
Hayes, Daniel David
Hearn, Frank
Heermance, Joseph Garfield
Heeseman, Charles John
Helfer, Howard Tayler
Hemler, Charles Cadmus
Henry, James Thomas
Herrick, J,eRoy Francis
Hersey, Elisha Atkins
Hersey, Frederick Howe
Hess, Philip Henry, Jr.
Hesse, Walter John
Heuer, Gustav Adolph R.
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert
Hickmott, Robert
Hicks, George Henry
Hilbourn, Theodore Osgood
Hildebrand, George DeForP.st
Hill, Magnus Peti;r
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Hitchcock, Erastus Kirk
Hodges, Alfred Coggin
Hoffman, Martin Meno, P. M.
Holladay, Sherman Edgar
Holland, Arthur Pcrr.y
Holmes, Thomas Blakeney
Hooe, Headley Smith
Hoppen, Alfre1l

Horner, Andrew Long
llorton, John Rodboe
Hosmer, Abel
Hoster, George W.
Hough, Frank B.
11 owell, Theodore Morris
Hubbard, William Grover
Hughes, Arthur Chester
Hume, William Robert
!Iunt, Edwin Goddard
Hunt, Andrew Tanner
Hunt, Joseph Hancoek
Hunt, Walter Winslow
Hurd, Frank Morgan
Hutchinson, Arthur
Hutchinson, Dwight
Hyde, Clarence
Hyde, Marcus Darius, P. M.
Ingham, George Howard
Inskeep, Lorenzo Dow Steward
Irgens, Louis Steaven
Irwin, John Clarke
.Tames, Charles Albert
.Tames, David William
.Tames, Edmond Harrison
.Tellett, Magnus Woodward
Jenkins, John Arthur
.Tobn, Jenkin Bevan
.T ohnson, Benjamin Herbert
Johnson, Benjamin Oliver
Johnson, Charles Henry
.fohnson, Edward Clarence
.Johnson, James Arthur
.Johnson, Murrey Levering
Johnson, Warren Leslie'
,Johnson, William
.Johnston, John Frederick, Jr.
Jordan, Frank Chester
Jordan, John Benjamin
Kelly, Charles Marsh
Kendall, Frank Irving
Kerr, Louis Cormick
Kimball, Edwin Boyce
Kirkpatrick, Clyde
8

Kjelsberg, Karl Magnus
Klumpp, Emil Carl
Knapp, Charles Richard
Knight, Frederick Wales
Knowles, ' Jesse Baker
Koford, Henning
Kohler, Henry Herman
Kupser, J;Ierbert Milton
Kurtz, William
Kyte, George Joseph Douglas
Lackie, George Steele
Laing, Orlando Judson
Lancaster, Joseph
Lang, William
Lanyon, James
LarRieu, Edmond Augustus
Laughland, John
· Leach, Abraham Powell, P. M.
Leach, Francis Aleamon, Jr.
Leber, Albert Lewis
Leber, Henry
Lefevre, Louis Anton
Leonard, Harvey Hart
Lisle, John Quincey
Logan, Walter Edward
Lober, George Thomas
Lund, Hans Nicolai Petersen
Lund, John
Macintire, William Nelson
Maddox, Perry Ellsworth
Madsen, Albert
Madsen, Henry Larsen
Makins, James Nicholas, Jr
Makins, Joseph Henry
Manasse, August
Manuel, Walter Griswold, P. M.
Maricich, Louis Nicholas
Martin, Ernest
Martin, Charles Marmaduke
Masters, Sa.w yer Hayward
Mathisen, Mathew Harold
Matthe'\'\'s, Francis Ima
Mauvais, Boy
McAllister, Allister

JJ3

114

ROST EB

McCargar, Jesse B.
McCnrron, David
McClelland, Bruce Kelly
McClymonds, John William, P. M.
Me.Cord, Thomas
Mccready, Fre<lerick Lee
McCullagh, Edwin James
McGowan, Warren Emerson
McKenzie, William
McKinnon, John Robert
McKissick, Harry Hanna
McMullen, John Cornelius
McPherson, Alexander Lewis
McPike, Henry Clay
Megraw, John
Meek, Rodolph Wallace, P. M.
Meese, Constant
Merwin, Charles Wallace
Merwin, Edward Green
Metcalf, Victor Howar<l
Miller, Michael
Miller, Montgomery Kinzie
Miller, Washington J.
Mills, Willard Cooke, Jr.
Milner, Charles Harold
Mitchell, Claudius Hamilton
Mitchell, John
Moffitt, Albert Hubbard
Moore, Arthur Wilder
Moore, Charles William
Morton, Harry
Mott, Frank Kanning, P. M.
Murman, Peter
Naismith, George Semple
Neal, William Franklin
Neale, Charles Arthur
Nelson, Floyd Ormand
Nelson, James Wesley
N ettleto.n , Corliss Eugene
Newman, William Arthur
Newsom, Joseph Cather
N ordhausen, Carl Christian
Nicholson, Walter Ephraim
Nielsen, Knud
Nissen, August Fred

HOST EH

Noack, Harry Richard
Northey, Vernal Sidney
Nottage, Frank Melville
Ogden, Frank Burroughs, P. M.
Olds, Frank
Osgood, Frederick Smith
Overend, Edmund John
Owen, William HElnry Searles
Page, Alva Francis
Paine, Herman
Palmer, James Irving
Palmer, Oscar Burnett
Pangburn, Charles Wade
Park, John Allan, P. M.
Parker, Oscar Obediah Welsford
Parratt, Alfred Pennington
Parrish, Charles Champion
Parrish, Norman Adolph
Parrish, Wilfred Edward
Patrick, Andrew Robertson
Patterson, Albert Lewis Cranrlall
Paulson, Walfred Louis
Pease, Joseph Loran
Pedrini, Joseph Massimino
Pendleton, Erastus Otis
Perigo, Oliver Elbridg11 .
Perkins, Clement George
Perkins, Frederick King
Peters, Martin Orrin
Peterson, John Laurence
Peterson, Rasmus
Phillips, John
Phipps, William Henry, P. M.
Pierce, George Seneca
Pierce, John Hiram
Piercy, Arthur Thomas
Pierson, 'Thomas Washington
Pilling, James William
Pirie, Jesse Franklin
Pollitt, James
Pitman, Benjamin
Posey, Addison Cornelius ·
Potts, James Alexander
Povelsen, Niels
Pratt, William Herbert, P. M.

•

l'rlce, Wallace Covert
Rutley, Byron
l'rlchard, Thomas
Sack, Herbert Henry
1•roctor, David Archibald
Sack, Herman Frederick
Purves, John
Sagehorn, George Theodore
Rabe, John
Samuels, Isaac Julius
Railton, Edward Charles Jarn!'L
Saulpaugh, William Eugene
Rainey, James Henry ·
Schafer, John Herman
l<undol, Allanson Merwin
Schaffer, Louis
Randolph, George Emerson
Scharz, Richard Emil
Rasmusen, William August
Scott, Austin Clllrrington
Rocd, Elisha James
Seemann, Theodore Henry
Reed, Frank Markwood
Seese, John Siegfried
Reed, Walter Dickson
Sellmer, Charles John
Reinhardt, Joseph
Seulberger, John Frederick
Ul'inhart, Eugene John
Shakespeare, James
Heinle, George Gottlieb
Shan1,1en, .James Madison
Hovalk, Richmond Emil
Shaug, Ma;reus Luther
Heynolds, Albert Barnard
Shaw, Lucien Woolfolk
Reynolds, Charles Adams
Shepherd,. ' Robert Lee
Reynolds, l<'red Eugene
Shindler, David Doddrhlge
ll.oynolds, Guy Duncan, P. M.
Shulte, Albert Franklin, P. M.
Raynolds, Walter Dilatush
Sibbett, William Ryan
Rhodes, Alexander Gordon
Sibley, Benjamin Clarance
Roach, Henry Patrick
Slemin, Charles
Robbins, Henry Russell
Smith, Benjamin John
Hobertson, Arthur James
Smith, Edward Charles
Robins, Frederick Charles Hamilton Smith, Frank Tallant
Robinson, Edward Constant, P. M. .Smith, Hugh Lynn
Robinson, Jones McGregor
Smith, Wager Swayne, P. M.
Ro.binson, William Simpson
Sneathen, William Bond
Rodda, William James
Snyder, Andrew Jackson
Hoe, Alpheus Elatus
Sohst, Carl .John
Roeth, George
Sornps, Jules
Roff, Harry Loren
Southard, William Freeman
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Spaulding, Milton Elias
Ross, Horace Potter
Spence, Brainard Lee
Rowell, Clarence Fellows
Standeford, William Bert
ltowland, Frank Henry
Stark, George John William
Howland, Snowden Hill
Starr, Robert Emmet
Rowlands, Clement Phillip
Starrett, Frederick Lester
Ruediger, Julius, Jr.
Stevens, John William
Rumfelt, Clarence P.
Stewart, John Lealand
Russell, Edward Knight
Stolp, Fred Augustus
Rust, Clement Parker
Stromgren, Charles Delbert
Rutherford, David
Stuart, Arthur Leslie

115

116
Stuart, Percy Rankin
Summers, Rollin Allen
Sutherland, Edwin
Swain, Clinton Terry
Swauger, Arthur Bruce
Swauger, Delmar Denio
Swauger, Harry Lesel
Symmons, Samuel James
Taft, Archibald George
Tallman, James Rosco
Tayler, James Howard
Taylor, Felton
'faylor, Fred Butterworth
Thompson; Frank Robert, P . M.
Thompson, Thomas
Thompson, William Woodward
Thurston, Eugene True, Jr.
Tillson, Fred Minot
Timerman, Edwin Campbell
Todd, Alonzo Lewis
Todd, Francis Joseph
Tower, Charles Knibloe
Townes, John Franklin
Tozer, Charles Francis
~rathen, Albert Harris
Trathen, Frederick William
Treadwell, Charles Graner
Trenschel, August I•'rederick
Trotter, John
Trow, Charles Lloyd
Troy, John Henry
Tucker, Francis Marion
Turner, Aaron
Turner, Egbert Judson
Turner, Walter
Turrell, Herbert Newton
Uhl, George, Jr.
TTmphrP.n. Frank Morris
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Vance, James, P. M.
Veaco, James Frederick
Veitch, William Thomas
Victor, Charles Harris
von Adelung, Edward
Walbold, John Henry

.ROSTER

ROSTER
Walker, George Cook
Walker, Harry Lindley
Walker, Percival John
Walker, William Abner
Wallace, Frederick James
Warner, Elon Lafayette
Warner, Glenn Boyer
Warner, Junia Josiah, P. M.
Waycott, William Bowden
Webber, Joseph Francis Ruggles
Webster, Albert Bradford, P. M.
Weed, Mortimer Handley
Weil, Leopold Reginald
Wentworth, Franklin Judson
West, William Denison
Westover, Clinton
Wheeler, Roscoe
White, Carlos Greenleaf
White, John Gurney
White, Robert Macmillan
White, Warren Sears
White, William Jasper
White, William Thornton
White, Willard Woodard
Whitney, Frederick Lowe
Whyte, Malcolm Calvin
Wiedersheim, Chas. Fred Herman
Wight, Frederick Gordon, P. M.
Wiggin, Charles Maynard
Wilkins, Fred Ellis
Wilkinson, Edward Melville
Willeford, David Samuel
Williams, Ernest Deane
Williams, Harry Greeley
Williams, Nicholas
Willis, Arthur D.
Wilson, James Henry
Wishart, William Albert
Wixson, Robert Stanton
Wollitz, Ernest Alfred
Wood, Charles Henry, P. M. ·
Wood, Herbert Anthony
Woodward, Francis John
Woolner, Benja~in Franklin
Wulzen, Edgar Franklin

Wylie, John Wallace
Wythe, Stephen
Wythe, Willson Joseph
!\very, Edward Emmet

11.7

Yule, .John
Zabel, Carl Julius

-669
WITHDRAWN:
Dilling, Walter
Williams, Thomas Arthur
EXPELLED:
Dalton, Henry Philip

Uurleigh, Elmer Searer
Carroll, George Warren
Craig, Homer Alexander
Gruen, John C.
l,ord, Leslie Howard
Lukens, George Russell

DIED:
Montgomery, William Ernest
Morrison, John
Samuels, Julius
Schulze, Max Charles
Snow, Rowland Warner (E. A.)
Webster, Leander Rankin

GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 62.
Chinese Camp, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Delbert Adams, Master,
Henry Martin Menke, Sen. Deacon,
Shawmut, Cal.
George Nelson Porter, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Scott Brown, Sen. Warden, Roscoe Follansbee, Marshal,
Thomas J ames Williams, Jun. Ward., Edwin Kemp, Steward,
George H . Ingalls, Treasurer,
Edwin Robert Bolton, Steward,
Saul Morris, Secretary,
Frederick William Greiner, Tyler.
Chinese Camp, Cal.
Adams, Charles Delbert
Anthony, Richard David
Bluett, Samuel Thomas
Bolton, Edwin Robert
Brown, Walter Scott
Bryson, James Lafayette
Campbell, Charles Rufus
Carrah, Alfred Marshall
· Covert, William Percy
· Crandall, Elbert M.
.
Elliott, Charles Arthur Nelson
Evans, Isaac Henry, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Follansbee, Roscoe, P. M.
George, James
Giles, Albert Henry
Goudge, Henry, P. M.
Goudge, Simon Uren
Gregory, Henry
Greiner, Frederick William
Hooper, James
Ingalls, Elmer Olander
Ingalls, George H.
Jacobs, Adolph A.
Joy, Walter Frank

'118

ROSTER

ROSTER

Keith, Charles Peter, P. M.
Russell, Thomas John
Keith, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Settree, William James, P. M.
Kelly, Michael D.
Smith, Isaac Wp.rd, P. M.
Kemp, Edwin
Smith, John Alexander, P . M.
Leahy, Richard John
Smith, William Henry
Lewis, William Terrill
Snowden, Paul Ward
Morris, Saul, P. M.
Stratton, Daniel Edgar
Orcutt, Alpheus Sherman
Tyte, Charles Thomas
Palmer, Edgar Thomas
Vail, Herbert Eugene, P. M.
Penrose, Richard C.
White, Jeffries
-46
Porter, George Nelson, P. M.
Williams, Thomas James .
WITHDRAWN:
Nye, Bel'l.jamin Perry
DIED:
Currie, Norton Woodbridge

NATOMA LODGE, No. 64.
Folsom, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Cruickshank, Sen. Deacon,
Samuel Dowdin, Master,
Gustav Adolph Bauer, Steward,
Natoma; Cal.
William Andrews Simmons, S . W., Ray Dudley McFarland, Steward.
Solomon Wahrhaftig, Jun. Warden, George Imhoff, Tyler.
Edward Rogers Levy, Treasurer,
Hans C. J. R. Clemensen, Secy.
Folsom, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Cruickshank, William
Anthony, Harry
Daggett, Martin Van Buren
Baker, Clinton Mandeville
Darling, Charles
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Dowdin, Samuel, P . M.
Bauer, Gustav Adolph
Drullinger, James William
Beau, William Robert
Duchow, Marteen Casper
Bell, Charels Andrew
Dunkley, Louis Palmer
Blanchard, John Ernest, P. M.
Ecklon, Charles Henry,.P. M
Brobst, James Lorenzo
Ecklon, Christian Ludwig, P. M .
Broder, Jacob
Broder, Walter
Ecklon, Christian Frederick
Burnham, Ftederick Parker, P. M. Eckl on, Lor1mz Gottfried .
Burnham, James Henry, P. M.
Edwards, Hugh Roberts
Calder, William
Ferguson Frederick Franklin
Fie!, Isaac
Cater, George Peter
Clemensen, Hans Christian J. R,.
Gabriel." John Henry
P.M.
Grubbs, Grover Cleveland
Cohn, Phi.lip Charles
Hagadorn, Samuel Asa

lfall, Harry William, P. M.
Hesser, George Turner, P. M.
Hollingsworth, Lewis Washington
I lough, Horace C:irlc
fmhoff, George
,Joerger, Joseph
Keefe, Robert
King, John Henry
Levy, Edward Rogers
McFarland, Ray Dudley
l\fcKenzie, Philip
Miller, Emil
Miller, Oscar Jacob
Nourse, Beverly Stephen
Palmer, Eugene Grant
Parker, Theodore Clifford
Parks, Leonard Nelson
Phoenix, Edward Chauncey
Pegg, Milan Arthur

ll g.

Pierce, John Alvin
Plumb, William Boardman
Powell, John Henry
Prigmore, Joseph Riley
Riddle, Jerry Boggs
Simmons, William Anthony, P . M.
Smith, Nels Peter
Stamper, Simon, P. M.
Staunton, Frederick William
Stinson, Leon Ferguson
Treutman, Henry John .
Vance, Charles Cameron
Wahrhaftig, Peter Samuel
Wahrhaftig, Solomon
Waites, William John
Warnholz, Frederick Wm.
Wiley, David Elbridge
Wubbena, Nicholas Gerrett
Yoerk, Frederick Albert

-71
WITHDRAWN:
Syler, George William
Blair, Edwin Stone

DIED:
Scott, John Brown

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.
Jackson, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Carl William Schacht, Master~
James Harris, Chaplain,
Jackson, Cal.
William James Peters, Sen. Deacon,
William Thomas Brewer. S l'n. W ., William Dragolovich, Jun. Deacon,
Myron Berriman Matson, Jun. W., John Ould, Marshal,
J ohn Henry Langhorst, Treasurer, Myron Shaw Matson. Steward,
James Edward Dye, Secretary,
Nathan Pierson Williams, Steward,
Jackson, Cal.
Thomas Kelly, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barrett, Arthur Clifford, P. M.
Caminetti, Anthony
Bianchetti, Bartolomeo
Detert, William Ferdinand
Bole, Robert Chambers, P. M .
DiVecchio, Liberato
Brewer, William ThomM
Dornan, George Franklin
Brown, George Washington
Dragolovich, William

120

ROSTER

Duden, Frank Harmon
Dye, James Edward, P. M.
Eskew, Walter Elliott
Eudey, Alexander
Farnsworth, Eldridge Calvin
Fry, Donald Hume
Gall, Alexander Marshall, P. M.
Geirmann, Charles
Giusto, John
Goldsworthy, Richard Alfred
Hanell, Will~am Frederick
Harrington, Emerson Hull
Harris, Jamea, P. M.
Harvey, William
Head, Charles Joseph
Heiser, Charles Guido
Hensley, Frank Arthur
Hipkins, William Asbury
Jewell, Sidney Edward
Keagle, Lorentes Nevin
Kelly, Thomas
Kent, Walter Edwin, P. M.
Kerr, Robert Ira, P. M.
Langhorst, John Henry
Laughton, James Augustine, P. M.
Lindley, Curtis Holbrook
Lucot, George Washington, P. M.
Marcucci, Paolo
Matson, Myron Berriman
Matson, Myron Shaw, P. M.
Mattly, David
McFarland, William K.
McKenzie, Cory Amberson
McLaughlin, Jesse Allen

Myers, Eugene Clifton
Newman, Leopold
Osborne, Henry
Ould, John, P. M.
Parker, Clarence Frederick
Parker, Frederick Wardner
Parks, James Franklin
Penry, William Milton
Peter, William DeWitt
Peters, Wm. James
Radovich, Nicholas
Rugne, Raphael
Ruhser, Frederick William
Schacht, Carl William, P. M.
Spagnoli, Diovol Benedetto, P. M.
Spagnoli, Sylvester G., P. M.
Spagnoli, Urbano G. D.
Samuels, Joseph
Strohm, Jacob
Strohm, John
Taylo·r, }'rank Augustus
Taylor, James Ernest
Taylor, Walter Howard
Tibbits, James Hallar
Tretheway, John
Trevaskis, Edwin James
Williams, John S. B.
Williams, Matthew
Williams, Nathan Pierson
Wilson, Jay Fremont, P. M.
Witte, Albert William
Wood, Fred V.
Zumbiel, Edwin V.

WITHDRAWN:
Datson, Ernest
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Michelotti, Carlo
Ousby, Robert

Pascoe, Richard Henry

ROSTER

DIED:
Roberts, Phillip

-11

1211.

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.
Alleghany, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Henry Coleman, Master,
Hugh Roderick McDougall, Chap.,
Alleghany, Cal.
Harry Spear, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas Peter Fleming, Sen. Ward., John Franklin Lotspiech, Jun. Deac.,
Louis Barnes, Jun. Warden,
Charles Wesley Smith, Marshal,
Elmer Samuel Brindle, Treasurer, Ezra Leroy Crafts, Steward,
Thomas J. Murray, S ecretary,
Charles Basil Scheffer, Steward,
Alleghany, Cal.
Charles Binning, Tyler.

Brrnes, Louis
Brown, Chester Warren
Brown, Horace H.
Brown, Walter Calvin
Binning, Charles
Brindle, Edward S., P. M.
Coleman, John Henry
Crafts, Ezra Leroy
Davies, Frank
Davies, William
Ellis, Thomas
Fessler, George Samuel
Fitzgerald, Andrew
Fitzgerald, Walter
Fitzgerald, John James
Fleming, Thomas Peter
Goodwin, James Willis
Howard, Victor L. V.
Hunt, James F.

MEMBERS:
Irvine, Leonard, P. M.
Jenkins, Thomas Henry
Johnson, Henderson L., P. M.
Kinkle, Henry Willi!lm Lewis
Locey, Frederick Augustus
Malone, Roland C.
Marcotte, Frederick Lollis
McCullough, Joseph Johnson
McGregor, James
McDougall, Hugh Roderick, P. M.
McKenzie, Daniel
Murray, Thomas J., P . M.
Owens, John Foulk
Patteson, Thomas Adkins
Rowlands, Trevor T.
Scheffer, Charles Basil
Smith, Charles Wesley
Wheeler, William R. Morrison
Wyllie, Michael Galloway, P. M.

-38
Appel, Harrison

DIED:
Martin, George C.

1.2 2

.ROSTER

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Hubert Hamilton Briggs, Master,
John Randolph Humphreys, S. D.,
Stockton, Cal.
J esse W ard Wheatley, Jun. Deacon,
George Mitchell Hardenbrook, S. W., Robert Brittan Knight, Marshal,
Elmer H oover McGowen, Jim. W., Benjamin Edward Herbert, Steward,
Edward Clements Stewart, Treasurer, Arthur Laurin Tredway, Steward,
Geo.r ge Howe Buttrick, Secretary,
Charles Edward Howe, Tyler.
Box 494, Stockton, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Acker, George Racine
Buttrick, George Howe, P. M .
Adams, John Roy
Cail, Edward Isman
Atwood, John Perry
Campbell, Henry Riley
Atwood, Leroy Smith
C11-mpbell, Joseph Claybaugh
Aubry, Alvin Emansua
Carson, Edgar Consider
Bacheller, Ralph Milford
Castle, Durrett Oliver, P. M.
Ba ckus, William James
Catts, George Elbert
Bagley, Daniel, Jr.
Clark, ·George James
Bagley, Nicholas
Cole, Robert Watson
Ball, . Charles, P . M.
Cole, William Henry
Barber, Frank Wilton
Craig, Judson Law
Bainbridge, .Tames Absalom
Cross, Samuel Nelson
Baker, Clarence Clark
Cureton, Edward
Barkis, Henry Bruce
Curtis, Harry Sidney
Barnhart, Earl Winghert.
Dameron, John Dysarte
Bauer, Herman
Davidson, Robert
Bearce, Byron Antecella
Derr, John Obediah
Beasley, Charles
Ditz, George
Bennett, Louis Albert
Dodge, Horace Francis, P. M.
Dunbar, Joshua Cottrell
Bennett, Paul Weatherly
Duncan, Carey Ross
Bessac,, H enry W~ .., J .r ,,. P. M.
Bessac,' Hamilton·' Bremner
Eddy, John Henry
Blake, George Shepherd
Early, Clarence Erwin
Blewett, William Catlett
Ellis, Frank Everts
Bonney, John Allen
Fitzgerald, William Wesley
Fiola, Frank Joseph
Borders, Isaac Dougherty
Boyer, Thomas Alexander
Fletcher, Williard Franklin
Brandt, Charles Henry William
Fothergill, Milner Reginald
Briggs, Hul)ert Hamilton
Fowler, Weldon Mason
Brown, Philip Thomas
Freitas, Joseph B., P. M.
Buckley, William Duncan
Fyfe, Joseph Sr.
Butters, Edgar Warren, P. M.
Gaines, Frank Stewart

.ROST])JR
llnrden, William D.
Oardiner, Fred Orin
Gazzolo, Victor
<lClrow, Albert Percival
Gersbacher, Joshua Barre
Gibson, Edwarcl
Gibson, Wallace John
Grant, Charles Binous
Grattan, John
Gross, William Walter
Grupe, George Washington, P. M.
Gnmrner, Frank Alford
Hale, Leigh Ernest ·
Hardenbrook, George Mitchell
Hart, Charles B.
Harry, Charles Reese
Hawthorne, John Bradford
Hedges, Edward Richard, P. M.
Henderson, Orrin Staples, P. G. M.
Herbert, Benjamin Edward
Hodgkins, Sidney Newell
Holt, Pliny Eastman
Hornage, George
Hornung, Fred William
Howe, Charles Edward
Howe, Harry Newton
Howland, Oliver Melville
Hudson, George Francis,P. M.
Hull, Octavius Haymond
Humphreys, John Randolph
Israel, Frank Sherman, P. M.
.Ten kins, Edward Earl
Keagle, Aoelbert Grant
Kenyon, Percy
Keyes, Henry Calcutt, P. M.
K!Od, James Edward
Knight, Henry Leland
Knight, Robert Brittain, P. M.
Krog, Peter Christian
Lane, Frank Ellis
Lang, Lewis Hawkins
Langridge, George Washington
Latta, William Harrold
Leffler, William Henry Ebenezer
Leistner, George Washington

Lungo, Frank
Ludlow, William Berridge
Lyon, Lemuel Elisha
Lyon, William Herbert
Madden, Cassius Doi1glas
Martin, Irving
Matthews, David Sterrett
Matteson, William Haskell
Mayes, Thomas Berry
McCan, Francis Asbury .
McGaughey, James DeLaskev
McGowen, Arthur Wayne
McGowen, Elmer Hoover
McKenzie, George Alexander, P. M.
McLeod, Donald
McShea, George Earl
Merrill, Hiram Francis F., P. M.
Meyer, Herman Carson
Michaels, Benjamin Keefe
Miller, John Henry, P. M.
Mittick, Walter Leslie
Moore, John William
Muenter, August Edward
Myrick, .T ohn Edwin
Nelson, Thomas Alvin
Neumiller, .Charles. Louis
Nilson, Charles Au~st
Noble, Arthur Morgan
Noble, Edward Banks
Nye, William Douglas
Oranges, Geremia
Parks, Robert Walter
Patchen, Warren
Peart, Luke, W., P. M.
Petersen, Henry Christian
Peterson, Charles .Tohn Renholdt
Petzinger, Anthony William
Phillips, Arthur Leslie
Philo, William Elisha
Pope, Oscar Clinton
Powell, Barton Jerome
Raggio, Peter
Ray, 'Daniel Francis
Reid, Robert Asa
Rhodes, Allen Lee

124

· ROSTER

Richardson, William Ernest
Richey, Elmer Raines
Ritchie, Robert
Robinson, Isaac Newton
Roe, .J ohn Franklin
Roesch, George Frederick
Rogers, William Francis
Rose, Arthur Gilbert
Rosenberger, Arthur C.
Hoss, Neil Irvon
Rulf, Samuel Francis
Russell, Richard William
Ryland, Samuel Vinton
Senter, Willis Riley
Shanks, James
Six, Clarence Logan
Skinner, Eugene Napoleon
Hirith, Albert Lore.nzo
Smith, Lee Russell
Smith, William Franklin
Smythe, James Hudson
Sonthrey, John Nicholas
Southworth, Henry Edgar
Spooner, John Pitcher Jr.
Stamper, Louis Oscar
Starkweather, Ruben Edward
Stewart, Edward Clement, P. M .
Stitt, Philemon Herbe.rt

Sutherland, Charles
Swain, Joseph Henry
Taggart, Henry Wallace
Tredway, Arthur Lourine
Tripp, William Osial
Tschierschky, E. M. Louis
Tully, Elmer Leslie
Turner, George Clinton
Turner, Franklin Chester
Vale, Baldwin
Verdon, Frank January
Visher, Putman
Waddle, George Albert
Wagner, Solomon
Walker, Benjamin Franklin
Walker, Lon Morrison
Warren, Frank Grandberry
Waters, William Hall
Weber, August Frederick William
Wheatley, Jesse Ward
Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Williams, Arthur Reese
Williams, Ansel Smith
Williams, John Robert
Wilson, Robert Finlay
Woolner, Frederick William
Wright, Edward Lorenzo
Yardley, John, P. M.
-210

DIED:
Brooks, Alexander William
Grunsky, Eugene Moriz
Earson, ,John William
Muller, Fredrick William
Woolsey, William

ENTERPRISE LODGE, No. 70.
Yuba City, Sutter County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Leslie Willard Walton, Master,
Fred Buzzell Noyes, Chaplain,
Yuba City, Cal.
Emery Judson White, Sen. Deacon;
Carl Gerheardt Oott, Sen. Warden, Edw. Eugene Proper, Jun. Deacon,
Edw. Tallman Hughes, Jun. Ward., William' Henry Chism, Marslwl,
Eugene Marvin Boyd, .Treasurer,
Pleasant William Rowe, Steward,
Dallas Damon Green, Secretary,
James Abr~ham Littlejohn, Steward,
Yuba City, Cal.
Ogilvie M'on~ur, Tyler.
.·

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Fraser, Samuel
Albert, Daniel Wesley
Freeman, Laverne Lewis
Albertson, James Crump
Wrdner, Mark Anderson
Ashley, Lloyd C.
Gottwals, William
Ashley, Jay W., P. M.
Graffis, Alonzo, P . M • .
Ashley, Luther
Grant, James Douglas
Bailey, Arthur
Grant, Seaforth
Barrett, Eugene T.
Uraves, Frank Henry
Barrett, Walter Lee
Bayne, Richard, P. M.
Gray, Albert Donald, P. M.
Gray, James Care
Benchley, William Wallace
Best, Henry
Gray, Samuel
Gray, William Jackson
Bird, Will 1''rancis, P. M.
Green, Dallas Damon, P. M.
Boyd, Eugene Marvin
Gregg, Martin Van Buren
Boyd, George Thomas
Griffith, Irwin
Bremer, August Gustav
Bremer, Frank Gus
Haussinger, Julius
Brockman, John Henry
Hauss, Ferdinand
Heiken, John Bantas
Bunce, Leon Mark
Heiken, Hobart William
Burgess, Chester Crowell
Hewitt, Arthur Hathaway, P. M.
Burgett, Oliver Perry, P. M
Carpenter, Robert Anderson
Hughes, Edward Talman
Carpenter, William Rennie, P. M.
Hull, Royal Chandler
Humphrey, William Emory
Chadwick, Larkin Hopkins
Chism, Phillips Grover
Hunter, Alexander T.ashbrook
Chism, William Hei:ry
Harter, Clyde Banta, P. M .
Clark, Henry Wilmoth
Hansen, John Henry
Hendrick, Robert Calvin
Clark, Howard Clifton, P. M.
Hetherington, Frank William
Clements, Joseph Banks
Clements, William Andrew
Hughes, John Tomilson
Clyma, Thomas Sanford
Humphreys, William Clayton
Coats, Mack Colvin
Jacks, John
Davis, Robert
Kees, John Oliver
Kells, Robert Cornelius
DeWitt, Clinton Jacob
Kells, Robert Norman
DeWitt, Frank William
Kersey, Thomas Saveree
DeWitt, Marcus Golder
Kimball, George Herbert
De Witt, Richard Clarence
Kimball, John Franklin
DeWitt, William Golder
Kim ball, Allen Holmes
Dick, Charles Gillette
· Kirk, William Archibald
Duncan, John' Atkinson
Kline, Charles Greer
Duncan, John Lewis
Kline, Claude Cecil
Ensign, Frank Milo
Kofod, Edward Alfred
Fields, Charles Beccom

l2tl

Lamme, John Hamilton
Lathrop, George Washington
Littlejohn, Howard Grant
Littlejohn, James Abraham
Lyman, George Byron
Magruder, George Henry
Mabon, Kirby Smith
Manford, William Berkeley
Matteson, Charles
McLaughlin, Alexander Campbell
McLean, Du·n can James
McQuaid, Charles Edward, P. M.
McRae, Alexander Arthur
McRoberts, William George
McVey, Thomas Fletcher
Moncur, Hugh Dixon, P. M.
Moncur, Ogilvie
Montna, Peri Bircl
Moon, Richard Albert
Noyes, Fred Buzzell, P. M.
Onstott, Fred Arthur
Onstott, John Paxton, Jr., P. M.
Onstott, John Paxton, Sr.
Onstott, Jacob Glen
Orr, James Emanuel
Ott, Carl Gerheardt
Pease, Charles Harris
Pease, George Harris
Peace, Wyuu~n Currier
Peck, William Francis
Pool, Anthony Wayne
Ripley, Charles Jackson
Rodefer, .JesRe Elmer
Rowe, Pleasant William
Sanborn, Miles Edward, P. M.
Sanborn, Ralph Edward
Schellenger, .l}delbert Edmond
Scbillig, Bennett

Bevens, Edward Alfonso
Brnnd~tratt, .John Nelson
Cuddeback, Edson N.

ROSTER

ROSTER
Sehillig, Lawrence, P . M.
Schmidt, Erich
Schuler, Conrad
Shearer, William
Sheldon, Charles Munson
Smith, William Parkhurst, P . M.
Soderlund, Noack
Spilman, Leslie Fairlee
Starr, Edward Butler
Starr, Roy Deboise
Stephens, William Louis
Straub, George Frank
Summy, Leonidas
TarkEI, Louis
Tharp, George
Von Geldern, Edward
Walton, Benjamin Franklin
Walton, Frank Starr, P. M.
Walton, Fred Day
Walton, George
Walton, Hiram Aaron, Jr.
Walton, Leonard Arthur, P. M.
Walton, Leslie Willard, P. M.
Walton, Oscar Milton
Walton, Richard
White, Emery ·Judson
Wilcoxon, Baxter Allen
Wilcoxon, Philip R:eyser
Wilkie, James B.
Wilkie, James Hunter
Wilkie, Karl Purvis
Wilbur, Lloyd Hamilton
Williams, Clayton Elsworth, P. M.
Williams, Lawrence Davis
Williston, Elijah William
Wood, Job Kettles
Woodworth, Arthur Gustave, P . M .
Woodworth, Louis H., P. M. -160

WITHDRAWN:
Cooper, Frederick
Campbell, Benjamin Getty
Haynes, James Lewis
Ward, Charles Webster

127

SUSPENDED !<'OR NON-PAYMEN'I OF DUES:
Robinson, John Franklin ·

ll1dley, George Washington
floats, William Alexander

DIED:
Haynes, James
Howlett, John Marion

BEAR MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 76.
Angel's Camp, Calaveras County.
Htated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moou.
OFFICERS:

l,l'onard Lander Martin, Master,
Angels Camp, Cal.
l'hilip Huber, Scnio:· Warden,
James Henry Moore, Jun. Warden,
Warren Rose, Treas11rer,
John Cooley, S ccretary,
Angels Camp, Cal.

Adair, Charles Franci.s, P. M.
Allen, Theophilus
Arendt, Michael
Barden, Harry Roswell
Beedle, Frederick Charles
Belloni, Mark John Baptist
Bennett; Claud
Beyer, Hugo Walter
Blackhart, Fred Gray
Boarman, Charles
Bothwell, David Milton
Bracco, John Angelo
Brevin, William Henry
Brin, Richard Morris
Brower, William Henry
Carley, John Hensley
Carlson, Charles Henry
Christensen, Christen Peter

Albert Crani Wilson, Chaplain,
William ·Russell Moorehead, S. Deac.,
Hugo Walter Beyer, Jun. Deaco11,
James Lagomarsino, Marshal,
Bert Gazzola, Steward,
Columbo Gazzolo, Steward,
Robert Hall Ross, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Cicconello, Louis Angelo
Clark, Baylies Coleman
Clough, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Cooley, John
Davis, Jefferson J.
Davey, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Demarest, David Durie
Dolling, Otto
Drew, Edwin
l<~ngstrom, Charles Otto
Fentress, Leslee Hoke
Garavagni, John
Gardner, Robert
Garland, George Drew
Garrard, Woodson, P. M.
Gazzolo, Bertolomer
Gazzolo, Columbo James
Gonner, John Baptist

ROSTER

:ROSTER

128
Goodloe, Peyton Verbannus
Graebe, Alfred Eugene
Hall, Algewar Everett
Hancock, John
Herzberg, August
Hogate, Samuel Carter
Howell, Morton Temple
Huber, Philip
Huberty, George
Jensen, Rasmus Christian
Johnson, Charles Albert
Jones, Thomas Henry Ryon
Jordan, Shuball Howard
Kavanaugh, John
Kuhnen, Andrew
Lagomarsino, James
Lagomarsino, John Peter
Lillie, Charles Andrew
Lockman, Francis William
Loring, William Joseph
Martin, Freel Julius
Martin, James Frank
Martin, Leonard Lander
McBride, Charles Jophes
McCurdy, Elliott Steele
McLaughlin, James Henry
McTarnahan, Carroll
Messenger, Hiram Henry
Miller, Valentine William
Minard, William
Monte, Verda Lawrence
Moore, James Henry

Moorehead, William Russell
Morgans, Philip Morgan
Mosgrove, William A.
Orr, John Alfred
Paiihe, Edmund Benoit
Pattee, Frank Benjamin
Patterson, .George .Wesley
Perine, Joseph Fulgenzio
Porter, John Thomas, P. M.
Posey, George Addison
Prothero, Albert
Quinn, Thomas Francis
Reaves, Jo.h n Edward
Ratcliffe, Henry
Richards, Cyrus Wesley
Riedel, Belthaser
Roberts, Samuel Augustus
Rose, George, P. M.
Rose, Warren
Ross, George Ichabod
Ross, Robert Hall
Schmal, William Henry
Scofield, Reginald
Smith, Thomus N., P. M.
Spindel, Stephen
Surrwhittard, Ernest Alfred
Tucker, Richard
Wall, James Tillman
Waterman, William Louis
Weirich, Elmer Williams
Williams, Louis Alonzo
Wilson, Albert Crair, P. M.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lane, Thomas Travis

Darroh, John R.

DIED:
Lanthier, Charles Earl

129

CALAVERAS LODGE, No. 78.
San Andreas, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Alexander Smith, Master,
San Andreas, Cal.
Irwin Beede March, Sen. Ward.,
Fanen Winkler, Jun. Ward.,
Gilbert Pfortner, Treas.,
Enos Franklin Floyd, Secretary,
San Andreas, Cal.

-100

James Keith, Chaplain,
John Joseph Halley, Sen. Deacon,
George Allen Stewart, Jun. Deacon,
John William Dietz, Marshal,
David Emile Cavagnaro, Steward,
Henry Wesson, Steward,
Charles Francis Walter, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Agostini, Jules Joseph
Lewis, Samuel Joseph
Loeffler, Ernest Walter
Bacigaluppi, John Augustine
Baird, Frauk
March, Irwin Beede
Beal, Charles Robert, P. M.
March, Roy Vernon
Beal, Frederick Nathaniel
March, William Bright
Cademartori, Louis, P. M.
Messenger, Nelson Cyrus
Casey, Edward
Mitchell, Willi.am Henry
Casey, William, P. M.
Nulaud, James Andrew
Cassinelli, David
Nuner, William Marble Jr.
Cavagnaro, David Amile
Pattee, John Kellog Jr.
Cavagnaro, Nicola Joseph
Petray, Adolph Gottleib
Dasso, Dante Adolphus
Pfortner, Gilbert
Del Re, Henry
Ponzetta, Nicola
Dietz, John William, P. M,
Preston, Charles, P. M,
Dominghini, C.
Raggio, John
Emery, Earle Caldwell
Redm -md, Samuel Edwin
Evans, Job Montgomery
·Roberts, David E., P. M.
Floyd, Enos Franklin
Salcido, Ernest
Ford, William Mitchell
Salcido, Javier
Gargadennec, Coronto Geo. Joseph Schrack, Henry Clay
Gourley, Asa Anthony
Smith, James Alex.
Graves, George Christian, P. M.
Snyder, Charles Peter
Halley, John Joseph, P. M.
Snyder, Jacob Philip, P. M
Hendrick, Georgo Hugh
Solinsky, Frank Joseph, P. M
Higginbotham, Enos Marion
Stewart, George Allen
Holland, Judson Arthur, P. M.
Tiscornia, Chester Joseph
Jack, James Sylvanus
Tiscornia, Frank Elmer
Jenkins, Hezekiah
Treat, William Thomas
Keir, Alexander H.
Vogelgesang, Frederick Roam ak
Keith, James, P. M.
Vogelgesang, Gustave 'Daniel
Krentz, Ernest
Walter, Charles Francis
LaHiviere, Wilbrun Eugene
Waters, George Christopher
9

130

ROSTER

Welch, William W.
Waters, John, P. M.
Winkler, Fanen
Wells, Frank Clinton, P. M.
Wyllie, Alfred Loring
Wesson, Henry
WITHDRAWN:
Raggio, Joseph
Edwards, David Bartlett
DIED:
Roberts, Orvis

ROSTER

-70

HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79.
Eureka, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Thomas Tooby, Master,
Robert Dale Clark, Chaplain,
1000 G Street.
Herbert Rowell Inskip, Sen. Deacon,
Fra~k Whitney Belcher, Sen. Ward., John Abraham Harnett, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Scott Gemmill, Jun. Warden, Hubert Hiram Woodcock, Marshal,
Bertram Nathaniel Bullock, Treas., Andrew Peterson McLean, Steward,
James Berry Brown, Secretary,
Edward Gustavus Johnson, Steward,
625 K Street.
Alexander Rankin, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bitterlin, Walt.e r
Aarbu, Ole Sevald
Bjornsen, Karl Selliken
Abrahamsen, Abraham R.
Bland, Cyril Ernest
Adams, Frank Richard
Albee, George Brinton, P. M.
Bond, Edmund, P. M.
Albee, Roswell Hitchcock
Bond, James
Andreson, Anders Olsen
Bonstell, Edgar Boynton
Borg, Edward Nelson
Anderson, Sigwald
Anderson, Charles John
Boyd, David Adair
Anderson, Oscar
Bridges, Floyd Schetter
Axe, Frederick
Bridges, Henry James
Backenstose, Edward
Broadbent, Sherman
Barnard, James Edwin
Brown, James Berry, P. M .
Brown, William
Barnett, Fred Earnest
Barnum, Frank Gorham
Bullock, Bertram Nathaniel
Barnum, Frederick Benj.
Bullock, Nathaniel
Burch, Elmer Lee
Bartlett, Samuel Pyam
Baumgartner, Helore
Burnell, Lewis Melvin
Burns, Paul Milton
Belcher, Frank Whitney
Campbell, Elmore Pierce
Belcher, George Amherst
Belch.er, Peter
Canham, Frederick Foster
Carson, Charles Sumner
Bell, Aaron Hayden
Benson, Edwin G.
Carson, George
Benson, Theodore Martin
Carson, John Milton
Cave, Henry Alfred
Berry, Frank Davis

Chain, John N.
Chapman, Emery Jonathan
Chapman, Stewart James
Christie, George Maxwell
Olark, Robert Dale
Ulyborne, W. Frank, P. M.
Cochrane, George Alfred, P. M.
Cockburn, Ernest Augustus, P. M.
Coggeshall, Walter
Conant, Edward
Connick, Clifton Horace
Cooper, Edgar Clarence
Copland, Robert
Correll, Eugene Philipp
('otter, Thomas
Uottrell, Emile Lester
Cottrell, John Austin
Consins, George Washington
Cousins, Ithiel Howard
Coyne, Franklin Boyer
Craig, John Alexander
Crockett, John William
Cutler, Thomas Barnes, P. M.
Cutten, Charles Pryde
Dinsmore, John Stinson
Dinsmore, Trustom Ring, P. M.
Doe, Herman S.
Dorais, Louis Pierre
Douglas, George Carlton
Drew, Charles Augustus
Dungan, Garland Albert
Eddy, John Mathewson
Edwards, Sylvanus David
Elleson, Laurence
Ellis, Charles Starr
Elsner, Charles Henry
Engebretsen, Frederick
Falor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Fanning, John Angus
Fardelius, August William
F ay, Nahum
Felt, Rae, P. M.
Ferguson, Frank Ellsworth
Ferguson, George M.
Fischer, William Ho.w ard

131

Forsey, Joseph Robert
Foster, Seth Burnham
Fowler, Alexander
Fraser, James Thomas
~'rost, Elmer Jam es
Fulmore, Fenwick Williams
Gale, James Cloyd
Gallop, John Thomas
Gault, James Hunter
Geer, Knyphausen, P. M .
Gemmill, Walter Scott
Georgeson, Frederick Williair..
Glatt, August Edward
Graham, Henry Albert
Graham, Wesley Charles
Gregersen, Gustav Martinius
Gregor, Otto Clayton
Griffiths, Griffith,
M.
Gross, Reuben
Gustin, George Adinoram
Hall, Charles .Wellington
Halle, Wesley Darwin
Hamilton, Herbert Weed
Hamilton, John
Hanna, William Patterson
Hansen, Harald Waldemar
Hanson, George Emil
Hardy, Frederick Eugene
Harnett, John Abraham
Haughey, Robert Lincoln
Hauptman, Sidney Morse
Hellberg, Emil Louis
Henderson, George Youle
Hen<lriksen, Bendix
Henningsen, Carl Frederick August
Heney, William Lawrence
Henry, Robert
Hilfiker, John
Hill, Edward John
Hiller, Benjamin Franklin
Hine, Thomas Walton
.
Hitchings, Charles Williard
Hollander, Siegfried
Holmes, Robert
Horner, Oscar Alonzo

P:

132

ROSTER

Horvereid, Peter
Hunter, Geo. Washington, P. G. M.
Hurlbutt, Frank L.
Hutchins, Robert Walker
Hutchinson, Charles
Imme, William Julius
Ingalls, George Lemuel
Inskip, Herbert Rowland
Jensen, Christian Nicolaj
Jensen, George Charles
Johnson, Edward Gustavus
Johnson, John Adolph
Jones, Prentiss Mellen
Kane, Daniel
Kasbohm, Fred John
Kehoe, William
Keller, Charles Erederick
Kincade, Joseph Conrad
King, George Frederick
Kingsbury, Lewis Buoncore
Klein, Sigmund
Lambert, William Lee
Langford, George
Larson, Charles Alfred
Leach,· Edward Alva
Lee, Lewis Alfred
LeVasseur; William
Lever, Thompson R.
Littlefield, Warren Austin
Locke, George
Loewenthal, Jacob, P. M.
Loofbourrow, Thaddeus L.
Madsen, Henry
Malcolm, Eldriclge Bowdoin
Manning, James Bennington
Marlin, Frank
Matheson, Daniel
Maurer, John Lester, P. M.
Maxwell, Sidney Alister
McCann, Charles Frederick
McCord, James Clifford
McCormack, James Madison
Mccutcheon, Robert
McDonald, John
McGeorge, John Frederick, P M.

McGeorge, Verne Adrian
McGillivray, William
McKay, Richard
McKay, William
McKay, William D.
McKee, Ernest Maxwell
McKeehan, Curtin Grant
McKellar, Donald
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre
McKeown, John
McLaren, Louis F .
McLean, Andrew Paterson
McMillan, James
McMillan, William A.
McMillan, William John
McNamara, William Alex.
McVicar, James .
Medill, Walter Pennock
Melendy, John Marvin, P. M.
Melendy, Robert Dale
Metcalf, Curtis Enoch
Metcalf, William Milton
Mitchell, John
Mitchell, John Herbcrt
Monroe, Alonzo Judson, G. M.
Monroe, Joseph Warren .
Morrison, Sanford B enton
Murray, Hugh
Murray, John Sutherland, P. M.
Murray, William Patrick
Nazro, Fr'tnk
Nellist, Frank Pletcher
Nelson, Hans Christian
Nelson, Lars August
Nessler, Alex. Magnus
Neesler, Carl Magnus
Nielsen, Niels Peter
Noble, Hugh James
Noe, Albert Conor
Noe, Ulysses Jesse
Ohman, Adolph
Ohman, Hubert Ferdinand
Ohman, Ignatius Joseph'
Ohman, Rudolph
Olsen, Hakon Erick

ROSTER
Olsson, Anders
Orpin, Charles
Palmtag, Christie Henry
Parker, Silas Wiley
Parker, Thomas
Persons, Louis, P. M.
Petch, Thomas Daniel
Peterson, Edwin
Pettingill, Edwaru Foster, P. M.
Petty, Josiah
Picketts, Charles Wyley
Pine, Joe
Pine, Safford Fay.
Pinkerton, Harry Owen
Pinkerton, John M.
Pratt, Walter Henry
Press, Whiting George
Price, James Howard
Rankin, Alex.
Ray, Winslow
Redmond, James
Redmond, John
Reinhart, Robert
Rice, Louis
Richmond, Thomas William
Riggs, William Augustus
Roberts, Albert D.
Roberts, Clement
Roberts, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Robinson, Fred, P. M.
Roethe, George Frederick
Root, Peter
Sanders, Robert James
Schorr, John
Schwartz, Henry Augustus
Sedgley, Alfred Moffitt
Shurtleff, John Thomas
Silence, Frank Arthur
Sinclair, John Archibald
Sinclair, Oliver Willard
Smart, Frederick Milton
Smith, Arthur M., P. M.

133

Soule, Charles Parsons
Speegle, William Nelson
Steele, Samuel James
Stein, Augustus Frederik
Stern, Lewis Edgar
Stern, Walter Eugene
Stewart, Hugh Byrol'l, P. M.
Stewart, Warren May
Strong, Wallace Bixby
Strong, Wallace Keaolah
Sundquist, Axel
Sundquist, Fred
Swanson, Albert
Tabor, William Henry
Taylor, Charles Gilford
Thomas, Clarence George
Thompson, Chesney Boyd
Thompson, Hiram Freeman, P . M.
Thompson, Samuel Boyd
Thurston, Eugene Lyndon
Tibbetts, Joseph Kimball
Tooby, George Thomas
Trott, George Washington
VanHovenberg, James Jacob
Viles, Bruce Philander
·waldner, Elmer Fern
Ward, Walter Remus
Waters, Leo Clark
Way, Arthur William
Weatherby, Albert Skiffington
Weaver, John H. G.
Weiss, Joseph Jacob, P. M.
Wilson, Emmet Wakeman
Wils(}n1 John Elmer
Wilson, Thomas W.
Wing, William
Wise, Solomon
Woodcock, Hubert Hiram
Woodcock, Samuel Alex.
Wrigley, George Edward
Zaddart, Frank Bernhard
Ziegler, Frank
-312

ROSTER

134

Carlson, Charles Peter
Clink, Morris
Colwell, Maynard Rufus
Fitzen, William Sloane
Jones, Robert Lewis
Kane, Alexander
SUSPENDED
Elater, Peter

ROSTER

WITHDRAWN:
Keever, Edward William
Keller, William
Lange, Ernest Adolph
McNamara, Frederick William
Mero, Frank Arthur
Pease, Fred Washburn
Stuart, Alexander
FOR

Anderson, Andrew William
Becker, Charles
Carson, Thomas
Carson, William

NON-PAYMENT OF
Ferguson, James
McCullens, David

DUES:

DIED:
Clendensen, Francis Arthur
4
McCann, Frederick Willis
Pine, John Nelson
Robbins, Joseph Marcus :Wyght

McClosk ey, William Wilson
Miner, Armistead Early
Newman, Jacob
Nixon, Lyman
Okel, Edward Joseph
Perkins, Elbert West
Perkins, John Dabney, P. M.
Pease, Frank Marion
Ranlett, Arthur Grover
Ross, Benjamin George
Ruman, Charles August
Sharpe, Otis Allen Ozro
Spencer, Sheldon
Randall, Willia m Trafton

135

Stewart, John Carlile
Surface, Jacob, P. M.
Surface, James Phillip, P. M.
Surface, John Whitten, P. M.
Swift, Charles Steadman
Tregaskis, Martin Bowden
Williams, James Henry, P. M.
Woolsey, Eugene George, P. M.
Woolsey, George
Wood, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Yager, George Henry
Yager, George John

-49

WITHDUAWN:
Woolsey, Herbert Alfred
DIED:
Free, Franklin

IONE LODGE, No. 80.
Ione, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

J ohn F rancis Martin, Master,
John William J oses, Chaplain,
Ione, Cal.
Elbert West Perkins, Sen. Deacon,
George John Yager, Senior Warden, John Henry Yager, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur A. Cunningham, Jun. Ward., James Henry Williams, Marshal,
J ohn Marchant, T reasurer,
Burnhard Hammer, Steward,
Andrew Jackson Wood, Secretary, Henry Harris, Steward,
Ione, Cal.
James Phillip Surface, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Harris, Henry
Adams, Abner LaFayette, P. M.
Heath, John Wesley, P. M.
'Bagley, Loren Amick
Holman, Ira Newfield
Bennetts, William Arthur, P. M.
Jones, Morris
Crabtree, Isaac Jackson
Jordan, James
Cunningham, Arthur S.
Johnson, Carleton H.
Deibolt, Joseph Celestine
Josee, John William, P. M.
Endicott, Edwin Eugene
Mace, Fayette
Farnsworth, Junius, P. M.
MacLean, John
Flegal, Prank Porter
Maestretti, Antonio
Greenough, Ernest Freeman
Marchant, John, P. M.
Hammer, Bernhard
Hammer, Michaelis
Martin, John Frank, P. M.

YOLO LODGE, No. 81.
Yolo, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Clyde Flournoy Hayden, Master,
Karl Earl Giguiere, Sen. Deacon,
Yolo, Cal.
Homer Byrns Hayden, Jun. Deacon,
Asa Floyd Petti!, Senior Warden,
Albert Michael Bemmerly, Marshal,
Charles R. Hoppin, Junior Warden, J oseph T . Cooper, Steward,
J ohn William Cannell, Treasure~,
J ohn Alfred Lundey, Steward,
Bernard Barach, Secretary,
Edward Alfred Myers, T:J,•ler.
Yolo, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Bemmerly, Albert Michael, P. M.
Curtis, Harry E.
Bentel, Lewis David
Didion, Obe Lester
Borach, Bernard
Friday, Perley Gordon
Bower, John Guthler, P. M:
Giguiere, Karl
Brown, John Scott
Hadley, William Charles
Bullock, Fred Willson
Harper, Russell
Cannell, John William, P. M.
Hatcher, Columbus Washington
Caseilis, William Watson
Hayden,- Clyde Flournoy, P. M.
Claussen, Ernest Augustine
Hayden, Homer Byrns
Cooper, Joseph T.
Hoppin, Charles Rossiter, P. M.
Cramer, Lewis
Hoppin, George Henry, P. M.

ROSTER

ROSTER

136

Houx, Daniel Francis, P. M.
Kergel, August Joseph
Levy, Armand Abraham
Lundy, John Alfred
Morrow, Arthur Gorman
Myers, Edward Augustus, P. M.
Pettit, Asa Jrloyd
Plantz, William Henry
Nutting, Samuel Lawrence

Price, William Enos, P. M.
Riley, Ely Davis
Root, John Marion
Scarlett, James Edward, P. M.
Tacker, Christen Martensen
Taylor, John Z.
~
Wall, William Samuel
Zimmerman, George David
-38
DIED:
Seltenheim, Herman

RISING STAR LODGE, No. 83.
Forest Hill, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Mathew Chalder Langstaff, Master, Andrew Morehead, Chaplain,
Forest Hill, Cal.
Israel Martin Karschen, Sen. Deacon,
Steward Ormsby Foster, Jun. Deacon,
Kenneth Chisholm, Sen. Warden,
Charles Robert Burry, Jun. Warden, Clarence Dennis McKinley, Marshal,
Henry Jones, Treasurer,
Frederick Chester Davidson, Steward,
Jacob Lock Welker, Secretary,
Gilbert Florence Ray, Steward,
William Smith, Tyler.
Yankee Jims, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Francis Erskine
Dolt, Alex., P. M.
Anderson, August F.
Dyson, George Nutall
Barton, Orrin Leroy
Ferguson, John Alex., P. M.
Bisbee, George Hemans
Fick, Frank Anthony
Bristow, John W.
Foster, Stewart Ormsby
Garrison, George Howard
Britt, Edward
Holt, Michael Oscar
Burry, Charles Robert
Jones, Henry
Calenberg, Francis Henry
Chappellet, Felix, Jr.
Korschen, Israel Martin
Chisholm, Kenneth, P. M.
Langstaff, Matthew Chalder
Clements, Styles Kennedy•
LaRue, William Addison
Lockwood, Lot Dean
Colburn, Frank Ellsworth, P. M.
Cowan, Gordon Robinson
'Lowe, George Alex.
Cowden, Ambrose Franklin
Manbert, Cal Rushton
Davidson, Frederick Chester
McAuley, George
Davies, Winfield Scott, P. M.
McAuley, Gordon Malcolm
McAulay, Henry William
Develey, Frederick Keyseur
Dodds, Thomas Joseph
McAninch, John, P. M.

McKinley, Clarence Dennis
Meikle, Peter R., P. M.
Morehead, Andrew
Nesbit, Napoleon Bonapart
Power, Harold Morgan
Power, Harold Thomas,
Purinton, Frank Robert
Ray, Gilbert Florence
Reese, John William

137

Rennet, Charles
Roumage, Frederick Schmiut
Schwalenberg, Hen:ry
Smith, Frank Leslie
Smith, George Henry
Smith, Leroy Ernest
Smith, William
Welker, Jacob Lock

-53

WITHDRAWN:
Runckel, George Henry
SUSPENDl!"JD FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
L amnell, Edward Michael
Morehead, David Orlando
DIED:
Kelly, James Thomas

VESPER LODGE, No. 84.
Red Bluff, Tehama County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Roy Smith Godboldt, Master,
Arthur Hill Fickert, Sen. Deacon,
William Felix O'Connor, Sen. Ward., Thomas Bidwell Greene, Jun. Deac.,
Granville Woolman, Jun. Ward.,
Perry Odell Thomas, Marshal,
William Brower Cahoone, Trensurer, Raymond Earl Whitney, Steward,
William Preston Johnson, Secretary, Irving Bradley Paxton, Stewal'd,
Red Bluff, Cal.
Samuel Lewis, Tyler.
Andrews, Henry Parker
Apple, Joseph Henry
Archer, Charles Monroe
Arney, John David
Ballard, Curtis Durkee
Ballard, Merrill Ora
Barham, James Louis, P. M.
Bates, Edgar John
Beck, Joseph
Belcher, William Joseph
Berkley, Robert Ed. Lee
Bonnard, Paul Noel
Roole, Frank Arthur

MEMBERS :
Boone, Nathaniel Isaiah
Boyd, Judson William
Bradley, James Henry
Bransford, Walter Lee, P . M.
Brooks, Hyatt C.
Brown, Ancil Lycurgus
Brown, Lyle Melrose
Burtt, George Lucius
Butler, Benjamin Aaron
Clahoone, William Brower
Campbell, Charles B .
Campbell, Remembrance Hughes
Carskadon, William Prior

138

Casale, Joe Isadore
Charles, Albert B.
Chase, Guy Horatio
Cheatham, Marion Judson
Clover, Philip R.
Coffman, Pelham Howard
Cohn, Alex.
Combs, Claude Artist
Combs, Otto Charles
Conner, Allen Howard
Conrad, Arthur Lee
Cooper, John Lambert
Cornell, Joseph Rus~ell
Cox, William Harvey, P. M.
Crumrine, Burritt
Crumrine, Rome.yn Ezra
Cunningham, Noble Millard
C:urtis, Charles C.
Darrough, Charles Henry, P. M.
Davis, Percy Eugene
Day, Jerome Wallace, P. M.
DePierris, Wesley Smith
Doane, Frank Lewis, P. M.
Doane, George Washington
Doane, Scott
bowner, George Curtis, P. M.
Dozier, John Newton
Duncan, Maurice W., P. M.
Eichelberger, Robert Dudley
Ellison, John Francis, P. M.
Felleman, Irving John
Fickert, Arthur Hill
Fickert, William Charles
Fish, Charles Erskine
Fish, WilliaJll Andrew, P. M.
Foster, John Henry
Fouke, Frank.Joseph
Gans, Erle Lawrence, P. M.
Gans, Herbert South
Gernon, Nicholas Andrew
Godbolt, Roy Smith
Gosney, Luther Orastaus
Greene, Thomas Bidwell
Gronenmeyer, Ferdinand Henry
Hamilton, James Lester, P. M.

ROSTER
Heaton, Nathaniel T.
Hendricks, Frank, P . M.
Hensel, Charles Frank
Hesse, Charles
Hillhouse, .John Clayton
Hoffman, Charles
Hultquist, Peter Ernest
Jelly, Frank Lee
Johnson, William Preston. P , M.
Jones, George Thomas
Kibby, Ira Wesley
Knauss, Edward, P. M.
Kuhn, Herman Gustave •"·
Lages, William
Lewis, Samuel
Linebaugh, David Cameron
L,iungstrom, Bernard Otto
Lucas, James Paris
Manning, Thomas Bernard
Marquis, James Harvey
Martin, Henry Arthur
McAmis, George Ross
McCoy, Alex. McKean
McCoy, Leo Adrian
McCoy, Leo Lewis
McCullagh, David Herbert
McLaren, James
Miller, William Be,rton
Moors, Oliver Edgerton
Murphy, Sylvanus Everett
Nice, Herbert Wesley
Nollman, George, P. M.
North, Edwin Byron
Norvell, Robert Marcus
0 'Connor, William Felix
Olson, Adolph
Owen, Joseph Allen
Paxton, Irving Bradley
Ransom, Frank Henry ·
Rogers, Alfred Newton
Rossland, Ole Os11ar
Schoenfeld, Solomon David
Scofield, George Lewis
Shade, Reuben Alor
Sharpe, James Henry

ROSTER
lhortritlge, James Edward
tlmlth, Charles Wilson
14t11nley, Norman Stephen
!Hark, Thomas Alexander
Mttce, Garlen Gates
lltlce, Henry Peter, P. M.
8tlef, Jacob
Stivers, George Lincoln
8tlvers, Henry Fox, P . M.
Strain, William
l!ltoddard, William Seward
Sutherland, Henry Isaac
MwRin, Cassius Perkins
Swain, Henry Clinton, P . M.
T11.ylor, Ulysses Grant
Thomas, Perry Odell, P. M. ·
'l'hompson, William Spinney
Trede, John
·
I nash, Edward Walter
Vestal, Harold
Vostal, Francis Asberry
Day, Thomas George
Miller, Reid Frank

Brown, John Wesley
lJoehring, Adam

139

Vestal, George W ems
Vestal, Rolla
Walbridge, Edgerton Byron
Weeks, Charles Blanchard
West, John M.
White, George Allen
Whitney, Raymond Earle
Wiedemann, Louis Carl F.
Wiendieck, Herman Henry
Wietfoldt, Henry Charles
Wilcox, Grant Butler
Wilkins, George Arthur
Wilkins, Norman Fraser
Willard, Harry Kittridge
Wilson, Arthur David
Winter, Louis
Woolf, Ambrose Warren
Woolman, Granville
Worley, William Henry
Zimmerman, Harris Haskell

-157

WITHDRAWN:
Vine, John Foss
Worley, Jesse Crim
DIED:
King, Ernest V.
Richart, Henry Charles

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
Vallejo, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Everett Wilson, Master,
George Wentworth Edgecombe,
Chaplain, .
'
701 Eldorado St.
Charles Walter Cansbrook, Sen. W. Henry Holinger Holmes, Sen. Deac.,
James Kamsey, Junior Warden,
Thomas Brown, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Adams Knott, Treasurer,
Bert Corey Whiteley, Marshal,·
William Brownlie, Secretary,
Martin Remmer Aden, Steward,
523 York Street.
Fred Graff, Steward,
Alvin Neuton Robinson, Tyler.

140

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Chandler, Henry Walker
Adams, Raleigh John
Aden, Henry Joseph
Chappell, James Fenton
Aden, Martin Remmer
Chase, John Hawley
Aden, Remmer Johan Remmers
Christialisen, Charles Jacob
Aden, William Melchert
Church, Robert B.
Aitken, James Pemberton
Cilley, Miner Henry
Allen, Ernest Paul
Clark, William Henry
Anderson, Amandus
Clary, E'dward Alvin
Anderson, Theodore, Jr.
Cleghorn, George Arthur
Armst;ong, John James, P. M.
Cleghorn, Robert Bryden
Ashwell, Charles
Clifford, Samuel Thomas
Ayling, Walter
Cochran, Albert Fremont
Bangle, George Edgar
Cogswell, Frederick Ludovica
Basney, Oscar
Conroy, David
Baumgartner, John Edward
Copper, Samuel Arthur
Begbie, Richard
Crist, Manuel Paul
Bell, John
Cuthbertson, Walter Jones
Belling, Henry
Dale, Joshua Benton
Belling, Walter
Daley, Arthur
Bennett, Thomas Henry
Dallyn, Charles Edward
Bergwall, Gustaf Adolph, P. M.
Dannenbaum, Eugene Q.
Berry, Arthur Edmond
Dannenbaum, Isaac
Beveridge, David Forney
Dannenbaum, Sam
Bissland, Duncan Colville
Dannenbaum, Solomon
•Bless, Elmer Delbert
Davis, Charles Henry
Bluett, Edward
Davis, David Llewellyn
Debolt, Charles
Boll, Charles John
Deininger, Jacob Frederick
Bower, Thomas Jeremiah
Bond, Frederick Taylor
Depew, William II.
Boydler, Einar Thomassen
Dickey, Glen Deane, P. M.
Dreher, Harry William
Braunagel, Henry
Brown, Nelson Wallis
Droast, John Martin
Dnmbrell, James William
Brown, Thomas
Edgecumbe, Egbert Edwin
Brown, Walter Scott
Edgecumbe, George Wentworth
Brownlie, James
Ehlers, Peter Ferdinand
Brownlie, James William
Emerson, James William
Brownlie, William, P. M.
Emms, Charles
Bushnell, Charles Richard
Esborn, Homer
Canham, John Burnett
Faber, Charles Frederick
Carman, Ambrose Sherman .
Fabiansen, Alex.
Carter, George Valentine, P. M.
Falconer, Guy Bryan
Cassady, Henry Lawrence
Farmer, Robert Wilson
Cassady, Ralph Leslie
Fischer, August Ernest
Causbrook, Charles Walter

ROSTER
l~lt:>1pntrick, Joseph
Foley, Patrick Henry
Freudenberg, Herman Lee
!'roy, Henry Georgo
!'ugler, Ernest Charles
Funk, William Walton
Oedge, William Kelly
llraft', Frederick
Clreathead, Robert Granville
Oroen, Robbie Gladys
Oreenwood, Earl Norman
Oreenwood, Harlow Verne
·Greenwood, James Alfred
Oreig, Alex., P. M.
Orindler, Richard Edward
Grove, J eane Angelo
Guffy, Newton Booth
<luill, Willis Adie
Uustavson, Ernest Alexis
Hale, Henry Hugh
Hacker, Homer Haynes
Hall, George Henry
Hall, Frederick Winslow, P. M.
Halliday, Henry Lincoln
Hamlen, John Elbert
Hammar, Alrik
Hancock, John Henry
Hansen, Charles Fred
Hanson, Arthur Ferdinand
Hanson, David Mark
Harding, John Henry
Harrier, Daniel Webster
Hartman, Alvin Andreas
Hathaway, Charles Odbert
Hatton, William John
Haupt, Oscar
Hawkins, Ernest Alfred
Healey, John
Healey, William
Heath, Charles Richard
Hecgler, Fred Henry
Herbert, George Arthur
Hind, William McKenzie, P. M.
Hogg, William Calvin
Holly, Jackson Robert

141

Holmes, Harry Holinger
Hood, John
Hood, Robert, P. M.
Hopp, Emil Gustav
Huckins, Albertine, P. M.
Hunt, George Jackson
Hurt, James Arthur
Huston, Elwood Branham
Illhardt, August
Irven, Walter L:"'nch
Jacobs, Benjamin Richard
Jacobs, Clarence Preston
Jamison, Frank Reed
Johnsen, Albert Anderson
Johnson, Lester Archibald
Johnson, Olav
Johnson, Otto
Johnson, Otto Julius
Johnston, Charles Martin
Jolley, Samuel Patterson
Jones, Tvor Edw:ml
Jones, Morgan
Jones, William Alex., P. M.
Jones, J anard E.
Jones, William Thomas .
Joyce, Charles Sheridan
Kaarsberg, Lawrence C. H., P. M.
Kahler, William Louis
Keller, Philip Lawrence
Kempe, Paul Frederick
Kennison, Moody Dodge
Kenyon, William Hazard
Kessler, Eugene Francis
Killam, Frank Nelson
King, William Roscoe
Kinsey, Frank Joseph, P. M.
Kirkpatrick, John Marcus
Knott, Albert Adams
Knott, Albert Thomas
Koltz, Bernard Johann
Koltz, Gust&ve Oscar
Kovetke, George William
Kozlow, Stephen
Koppen, George John
Kropp, John Richard

112

ROSTER

Kuhn, Arthur Henry
Kull, Howard Milton
Leach, Frank Aieman
LMtvitt, Lorenzo Bailey
Le,mard, George Darwin
Le,·ee, Sarjah M.
Lindauer, Arthur, P. M.
Lindstom, William
Litle, Harvey Bruce
Lord, N el ville Merchant
Lucas, Arthur Wilson
Luchsinger, Joh11 ,Jacob, P. M .
Lutgens, Adolph Charles Frederick
MacDonell, Archie Melville
Magoon, Walter Calvin
Major, John James
Malcolm, John George
Mann, Orville tirant
Marshall, David Filson
Marshall, Elmer Ellsworth
Martin, James Lewis
Martin, John Henry
Mathesen, Manuel
Matthies, Hugo Werner
Mattson, Charles Oscar
McCarthy, Timothy Worthington
Mccloskey, Alexander
McCord, Charles Graham
McCray, Marvin
McDaid, Alex., P. M.
McKenney, Charles Daniel
McKnight, Samuel James
McLaughlin, Roy Parmelee
McPherson, James Gunn
McPike, Andrew Jackson, P M.
McTyer, William A.
McVettie, William
Merriman, E dward
Merritt, Josiah
Miller, Theodore Leon
Milman, Arthur
Minard, Ray Neil
Mini, Da miani
Mini, John Baptist
Mitchell, H enry John

Mitchell, William Earl
Mitchell, William Henry, P. M,
Morton, George C.
~1uirhead, Thomas
Muirhea'tl, Thomas, Jr.
Mullan, Daniel
Munro, Donald, P. M.
Nelson, Charles Wesley
Nelson, Erie
Nelson, Martin
Newman, Oliver Charles
Neill, John W.
Nicol, James Rolph
Nielson, Carl Henry
Nightingale, William Arthur
Norbey, Peter Oliver
Noyes, Elmer Ellsworth
Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett
O'Brien, Maurice John
Olander, H erman Knut
Oliver, Thomas
Craker, Ole Peterson
Ovlen, Uno Theodore
Paige, William Francis
Palmer, Mortan M.
Paterson, James
Patterson, James Hunter
Peck, Fred Douglas
Pennycook, William Dick
Peoples, Bert Raymond
Persson, Ernest John
Peters, Charles Richard
Peterson, James Carl
Piercy, James
Plummer, Henry Guion
Plymire, James Adams
Pohlmann, William Henry
Pope, Frederick Joseph
Powell, James Henry
Pracht, Charles August
Pratt, Daniel A:-astus
Radcliffe, Peter Edward
Ramsey, James
Rehn, Emil Emanuel
Richardson, Henry Douglass

ROSTER
JUchmond, William Elliott
ltobinson, Aivin Newton
Roperto, Gaietano
Rose, August Fred. Christopher
Rossow, Ernest Frederick
Ho11nds, George, P. M.
ltule, George Alex.
Rule, Richard Young
Rt1!Bell, Alex.
Hutherford, David Ritchie
Hut her ford, John Alex.
Uutledge, Frank Bellamy
Samuels, Andrew
·
Suunders, Walter Gillett~
Sa\•age, Thoma11
l:!nxton, William Eugene
Schild, George Ferdinand
Schmidt, John
l:!chwass, John Franklyn
Shade, Simon Luther
Shepherd, Charles Francis
Sherwood, John
!:!mall, Frederick Augustus
Smith, John
t:lnytler, Joseph Barnaby
l:forensen, Samuel Peter
Spencer, Alfred Oscar
Springborg, Peter Conrad
!:ltuvens, Caivin Elkins
Stewart, Frank George
Stewart, Herbert Callaway
St. John, Robert L.
Stolzenberg, Charles Frederick
Stromberg, Wilhelm Nilcolom
Sullivan, Thomas Sylve&ter
Swanson, William Edward
Symington, John Grant, P. M.
Taylor, William Henry
Thirion, Julius Joseph
Thompson, Walter Simeon
Thornton, George

. Thornton, John Robert
Throp, George Spafford
'roles, Walter Wellington
Tolley, George Francis
'l'omke, Edward
Toth, John
Tl'ee, Albert Duhring
'l'regidgo, Don Alfonso
'l'ripp, Don Everett
Tuttle, Paul Vernon
Vassie, David Barclay
Vice, Thomas, Jr.
Walker, James Marion Church
Walker, Robert Woodhull
Wall, Anselm Alexander
Wall, Charles John
Warford, Charle~ Henry
Warford, George Hichborn
Warford, Lewis Sylvester
Warren, Charles, P, M.
Warren, Edward Barker
Welter, Dominique
Weniger, George
Westrem, John
Weir, John Campbell
Wheeler, Charles Garry
White, Burchard Uole
White, Henry Erlward
Whiteley, Bert Cory
Widenmann, Charles
Widenmann, Henry Jacob
Widenmann, William Adolph
Wilkinson, Edwin
Williamson, William
Willis1 Jack M. W.
Wilson, George Wilkins
Wilson, Joseph Everett
Wiseman, Herbert John
Wittum,' George Francis
Wood, John Fr:rneis
Wood, Robert
-350

WITHDRAWN:
Allingham, John Wilson
*Jumper, Edward Mayberry
MeDonnell, John Edmund
•Degrees confe rred d urfng the year.

143

144

ROSTER

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Janda, James
Miller, James William
Keller, Charles Philipi
Rippetoe, James Jacob
Macdonald, Angus Edwin
Tobias, Dot Orville
EXPELLED:
Heilpern, Henry
DIED:
Andrews, William
Hilton, Osgood Harold
Moran, Owen

Nev enhuisen, William
Payson, Carter .Noyes
Stephens, Ernest Frank
Winchell, Frank Theodore

ROSTER
l'eckham, Thomas William
l'orkins, Joseph Allen
l're1tegard, Ole M.
Holies, Owen
Robson, William Garfield, P. M.
H1•hwartz, Theodore
Sears, Calvin Kirk
Flperbeck, John Bertie
Stewart, Wallis Jones
llclllu, Frederick Eastman
!>owning, Walter George
<loss, William Henry, Jr.
llrover, Henry Courtland
Nirholas, John Henry

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
:Austin, John Hiram
Bach, John Ed., P. M.
Bartle, H. 0 . A.
Beatty, John, Jr., P. M.
Beatty, Robert, P. M.
Cocking, William Joseph
Collins, Lawrence Leroy
Davey, Sampson
Dickerman, Samuel Nelson
Dobbins, Julian Wilcoxou
Duggins, Alexander
Durfee, Joseph, P. M.
Dutra, Frank Meranda
Earp, William Hilton
Flint, John North
Hansen, Chris

Hapgood, Eugene DeLorimer, P. M.
Hopfield, Lewis Desolis
Horton, Dwight
Jones, David Nevins
Jorgensen, George Christian
Kirkpatrick, Herbert Alexander
Kumle, Hubert Garfield
Lehman, William Henry
Lewis, Harry Byron
Magonigal, William Boyd
Manasco, Carlton Willburn, P. M.
Matson, Forest Bruner
McDaniel; George Glenn
McLain, OHver Henry
Novay, Charles Newton
Palmstrom, Barne, P . M.

Taylor, Joseph W.
'l'homas, Lawrence Elery
Toland, William Joseph, P. M.
Vineyard, George Eugene
Wheaton, Allan Givens, P . M.
Widner, Joseph
Words, William Warren
Williams, Henry Gray
Woehler, Otto Arived
-50

WITHDRAWN :
Richards, Hiram Harrison
Smeeder, Louis Morris
Walk, Harding Lincoln
Weldon, Augustus Laubach
White, Philo Slater

NORTH STAR LODGE, No. 91.

ROSE'S BAR LODGE, No. 89
Smartsville, Yuba County.

145

Fort Jones, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
I lorace Vincent Ley, A1astrr,
James Alex. Walker, Sen. Deacon
Fort Jones, Cal.
Leonidas Bailey, Junior Deacon,
l\lichael Henry Holmes, Srn. Ward., Craig Thomas Harbaugh, Marshal,
Prank Emmet Dale, Jun. Warden, Tsaac Roberts, Steward
l"elix Jacob Kunz, Treasurrr,
John Emerson Crawford, Steward,
l\fartin Custer Beem, Secretary,
Samuel J ackson Luttrell, Tyler.
Fort J ones, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Addison, George William
Garretson, Job
Arnold, J ease
Gault, Albert Morton
Bailey, Elton Thompson, P. M.
Glendenning, Walter Elliott
Hamilton, John
Bailey, Leonidas
Baker, Rollin George
Harbaugh, Craig Thomas, P. M.
Beem, Andrew Addison
Harris, Charles Elias
Beem, Martin Custer, P.' M.
Hayes, William Howard
Henderson, Fred Sylvester, P. M.
Bills, Albert AarC'n
Holmes, Michael Henry
Cowan, William Virgil
Crawford, John Emerson
Hottendorf, John Henry
.Tacobs, Elisha, P. M.
Dale, Frank Emit
Johnston, John Benjamin
Dangel, Joseph
Kells, Cli,as. Edward
Eastlick, Ederick Preston
10

.ROSTER

146

Kunz, Felix
Kunz, Felix Jacob
Ley, Horace Vincent, P. M.
Loots, Joseph Dephinet
Luttrell, Samuei Jackson
Malais, Joseph
Maplesden, Richard Daniel
Martin, Joseph Washington
Mccaw, Alex.
McCarthy, Francis Patrick
Milliken, Albert Alexander
Milne, George Anthony
Morgan, Wesley Eugene '

Parrott, Charles Boot!!
Roberts, Isaac
Ryan, Charles Milton
Sandiego, Shadra
Sell, Adam B.
Shearer, Hiram Dual
Simon, Arthur, P. M .
Simon, Charles Herman, P. M.
Thelen, Bruno
Walker, James Alexander
Walker, Robert Mitchell, P. M.
Young, John Wesley
Zoellin, Ernest August, P. M. -52
DIED:
Camp, James

ACACIA LODGE, No. -g2. ·
Coloma, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ralph L. Colwell, Master,
Charles F. Leonardi, Sen. Deacon,
Coloma, Cal.
Fred L. Thomas, Juti. Deacon,
J ohn McKay, Sea. Warden,
Alex. B. Leonardi, Marshal,
Albert N. Colwell, !tin. Warden,
Albert Shafsky, Steward,
Charles A. Rasmusson, Treasurer, Leonard Thomas, Steward,
William N. Stearns, Secretary,
Giosue Bassi, Tyler.
Coloma, Cai.
MEMBERS:
Bassi, Giosue
Mahler, Henry, P. M.
Bell, Francis · Marion
McKay, John, P . M.
Blake, Christian George
Merrill, Charles Edward
Ca11tle, Walter Augustus
Norris, Albert William, P. M .
Colwell, Albert Morris
Norris, Joseph Spencer
Colwell, Ralph Lewis
0 'Connell, Charles Augustus
Goldsmith, Walter Sidney
Orelli, William
Harris, Jacob Alex.
Ra.11musson, Charles Augustus
Shafsky, Albert
Johnson, Albert
Largerson, Frederick
Stearns, William Nathan
Leach, George Clark
Teuscher, Daniel
Leonardi, Alexander Basil, P. M.
Thomas, Fred Leon
Leonardi, Charles Felix
Thomas, Leonard, P. M.
Mahler, Arthur John
-27

ROSTER

147

ST. HELENA LODGE, No. 93
St. Helena, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Stewart Noble, Master,
St. Helena, Cal.
·
Homer De Wolfe Hewins, S. W.,
...................................., Jun. Ward.,
John Henry Steves, Treasurer,
J ohn Hiram Allison, Secretary,
St. Helena, Cal.

J ames Mitchell, Chaplaiti,
James Alfred Nowland, Sen. Deac.,
Fred'k. Franz Rockstroh, Jun. D.,
William Wirt Bradbury, Marshal,
Joseph Galewsky, Steward,
James F. Merk, Steward,
Frederic Ludwig Beck, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
.Fried, David
Adamson, Christian Pugh
Allison, James Andrew
Foss, Raymond
Allison, John Hiram, P . M.
Galensky, Joseph
Anderson, Henry Peter
Grant, Philo Seelye
Barnes, Roland Curtis
Grauss, Felix Lawren
Beck, Franz Ludwig
Greenfield, Charles Hay<len
Beck, Lawrence Lausen
Hansen, Hans
Bell, Alphonso Nelson
Hansen, William
Bell, 'rheo<lore Arlington
Hardin, James Robert Lee
Bell, William Bradford
Harris, Henry Harrison
Bingham, William Alex.
Haskell, Greenlief Adelbert
Hewins, Homer De Wolf
Boalt, Thomas Warren, P. M.
Bockstatt, August
Husman, Frederick Ludwig
Hussman, George C.
Booth, Frank Simmons
Inman, Marcus Fayette, P. M.
Booth, J eilitliah
J elinsky, Henry Charles
Bonhote, Edward Louis
Johnson, Charles Henry
Bornhorst, William Frederick
Johnston, Leslie Ewing
Bradbury, William Wirt
Bruck, Bismarck, P . M.
I.aersson, Berger
Burge, Adison E.
Lyman, Wm. Whittingham, P. M.
Mackinder, Frank Bennett
Caughey, James
Clark, James Harrison
McAllister, William Francis
McMahan, ,foe!
Clark, Louis Grant, P . M.
Clark, Samuel Gilman
Meacham, Henry Martin
Chinn, Harry Jessup
Merk, Jacob Frederick
Conradi, Carl Herbert
Metzler, John Adams, P. M.
Metzner, Walter
Craig, James
Miller, Anker, P. M.
Davis, Cornelius Elting
Dawson, William James Greenlee
Mit~hell, Frank Walton, P. M.
Disher, George William
Mitchell, James
England, John Fred
Moburg, Charles J.
Enos, Joseph Arthur
Newcomer, Stewart

ROSTER

ROSTER

148
Noble, John Scott
Noland, _James A.
Outwater, Nelson T.
Overacker, Howard, Jr.
Pellet, Frank
Phillips, Joseph Wilson
Rammers, Henry George
Rampendahl, August Charles
Reynolds, George Daniel
Rice, Charles Frederick
Richie, Geo. Tolman
Riehie, David R., P. M.
Rockstroh, Frederick Franz
Saunder, Louis
Shakespear, David
Skoog, August

Stearn, Leslie Aylmar, P. M.
Steves, John Henry, P. M.
Steves, Warren Carlton
. Squires, Frederick Russell
Swartfiguer, Thomas Q.
Spires, William
Treydte, Karl Otto Paul
Turner, William Abbott
Vann, Charles Ross
Varner, Frederick Garfield
Wagner, John A.
Wallace, Charles Holmes
Ward, Bruce Stanley, P. M.
Webb, Ole
West on, Frank
. -95

DIED:
Grant, George

HENRY CLAY LODGE, No. 95.

11 omberger, Nicholas
lluntington, Pliny Corbin
,Tones, B<lward
Jones, Edward Cornelius
,Jones, Thomas Washington
Katz, Louis, P. M.
Lewis, Arthur Parker
Lewis, Lemuel Thomas
Lithgow, John, P. M.
Lithgow, Theodore
Montgomery, Freuerick Alex.
Nixon, Malachi Doyle, P. M .
Norton, Charles Howard, P. M.
Norton, Virgil Winfield, P. M.
Norton, William Henry
Noce, Andrew Lewis
Phipps, John Anthony
Phipps, John Anthony, Jr., P. M.
Poundstone, Lawrence
Post, Elbridge James, P. M.

Poundstone, Lawrence Rider.
Redpath, John Lewis
Richards, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Sander~, William Atwood
Schrader, Gustave
Show, Herbert Jesse
Smith, Webster, P. M.
Styles, George Washington
'l'rc,gloan, John Roger
Trudgen, Thomas William
Vicini, Charles Peter
Voorheis, Edward Converse, P. M.
Walsh, Albert Marion
Walter, Henry Franklin
Weil, Aaron
Werner, Frederick, P. M .
White, Lawrence Antone
Williams, Benj. Cleveland
Williamson, George Frederick
-59

DIED:
Lehmann, Herman

Sutter Creek, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Virgil Winfield Norton, Master,
Lawrence Poundstone, Sen. Deacon,
Sutter Creek, Cal.
John Angelo Delucchi, Jun. Deacon,
Gustave Schrader, Senior Warden, Walter Ephraim Downs, Marshal,
John Lewis Redpath, Ju11ior Ward., Charles Howard Norton, Steward,
.Charles Edwin Richards, Treasurer, Edward Cornelius Jones, Steward,
John Lithgow, Seci·etary,
Thomas William Trudgen; Tyler.
Sutter Creek, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Delucchi, John Angelo
Downs, Walter Ephraim, P. M.
Austin, Bert Currington
Fleming, Joseph
Bell, William
Frnzer, Martin Luther
Beskeen, J ohn Edward
Greenhalgh, William Henry
Bowman, ]'rank Austin
Groves, Isaac Newton
Brinn, Morris, P. M.
Chandler, Joseph Fountain, P. M. Gunsolus, William Henry, P . M.
Hattersly, John
Christiansen, Robert J.
Henley, William Edward
Conroy, Chester Ferrell
Hornberger, Henry Nicholas
Culbert, Charles Leonard
All~n, 11eorge Edward

149

HOWARD LODGE, No. 96.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ernest Vance Harmon, Master,
Howard O'Connor, Seti. Deacon,
Yreka, Cal.
Oliver Hoyt Poor, Jun. Deacon,
William Brown Rider, Sm. Warden, David Ream, Marshal,
Ellsworth Tubbs, Junior Warden,
Frank Hovey, Steward,
William Lorenzo Hobbs, Treasurer, Richard Davis Henshaw, Steward,
Elisha DeWitt, Secretary,
James Marcellus Powers, Tyler.
Yreka, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Ager, Judson Arthur
Bird, John William, P. M.
Autenrieth, Edward Herman
Brooks, George William, P. M.
Autenrieth, Frederick Alex., P. M. Burrill, Alfred Stevens
Burton, Ray Oscar
Barton, John Henry
Buscomb, William Thomas
Beard, James Gehrig
Coggins, Clifford
Betts, John George

150

ROSTER

Collar, Adoniram Judson, P. M.
Collar, Floyd Judson
Coburn, Lewis Farren, P. M.
Cornelius, Rowland Pryor
Coyle, James Lawrence
Davidson, James McDermit
Davis, Fred J .
DeWitt, Elisha
DeWitt, Henry Conroy, P. M.
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt, P. M.
Dudley, Evan Charlack
Earhart, Davis Carlysle
Eddy, Irving Levi
Eddy, Newton Harvey
Fabricius, Andrew Jackson
Fielder, John Larimer
Frock, Lawrence Roy
Foster, Joseph Wallace
Gillis, Claude Erle
Gillis, Kenneth Claire
Gisbrecht, Adolph
Gordan, Morris Lane
Gregory, Calvin Levi, P. M.
Guild, Len W.
Hadley, Charles Edwin
Harmon, Ernest Vance
Harmon, John Enoch, P. M.
Hart, Edwin Charles
Hassler, William Richard
·Hen.shaw, Richard Davis
Hobbs, William Lorenzo
Hovey, Frank
Hudson, Hamilton Harris
Jones, Arthur
Jones, Lewelyn

Jones, Medcalf Thomas
Kuck, Jerome Deidrick
Leland, William Lester
. Lennox, William
Madden, Mabra Helm
Martin, Frederick
Martin, Henry Alvin
Martin, Milton Terney
Miano, John Norton
Morrison, Charles Hector, P. M.
0 'Connor, Howard
Orr, Oliver
Owens, Richard
Papst, John Leian<l
Pollard, Frank Church, P. M.
Ream, David, P. M.
Richardson, James Frederick
Rider, William Brown
Roberts, Willis Henry
Sarter, Harvey Johnson, P. M.
Sarter, Lee Andrew
Sheldon, Luther Augustus
Smith, Abner Clarence
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Smith, Clarence Stewart, P. M.
Storey, James Hamlin
Tamborine, Andrew
Tapscott, James Robert, P . M.
Truax, Andrew Yates
Tubbs, Ellsworth, P. M.
Turner, Walter
Turner, William Wallace
Wadsworth, Henry
Walbank, Edward Montague, P. M.
-81

WI1'HDRAWN:
Gunten, Alfred
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Straw, Isaac. Jefferson

ROSTER

151

JEFFERSON LODGE, No. 97.
La Porte, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, :first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Fruman Gould, Master,
James Waterworth, Senior Deacon,
La Porte, Cal. ·
Daniel McKenzie, Ju11ior Deacon,
Cleveland H. O'Rourke, Sen. Ward ., William Clarence Quigley, Marshal, ,
1lenry T . ·Hartley, Jim. Warden,
John Craig, Steward,
Cilbert May, Trearnrer,
George Archibald Patterson Steward
David W. Corbett, S ecretary,
Onezime Liberty, Tyler.
'
'
La Porte, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Bieler, Nicholas
May, Gilbert, P. M.
McFarland, Abel, P. M.
Rrassel, Jacob
Brunet, Leon
McKenzie, Daniel
Brewster, Herbert
McNair, George Morrison
Mickle, William
Caya, Oliver Francis
Corbett, David W., P. M.
Mott, Joseph
Mussey, John Milton, P. M.
Craig, John
Fox, James
0 'Rourke, Cleveland Hendrick
Francis, Richard Alley
Patterson, George Archibald
Foster, Robert
Proseus, John Milton
Quigley, Willie Clarence, P. M.
Forbes, Hector
Gould, Arthur Truman, P. M.
Reed, Henry Gibson
Grandbois, Samuel Francis
Richier, Dominique
Grant, William Oscar
Sample, James
Sherman, William
Greely, Archie Josiah
Harris, Aaron
Sr.hofield, Miles Edmon<l
Schofield, William Alfred
Hartley, Henry Thomas
Hendel, Charles William
Squier, Eugene, P. M.
Humphreys, Thomas, P. M.
Thomas, David Philip
.Johnson. Andrew
Waterworth, Jamee, P. M.
.Tones, James
Wendler, Frederick Herman
Kingdon, Henry
Wiegand, John, P. M.
Kingdon, Richard Henry, P. M.
Wingate, Charles Birkmeyer
Liberty, Onezime
-47
WITHDRAWN:
Squier, Elias Gibbs •

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Robertson, John Hutchinson
Day, George Holland
Jones, William Thomas

RGSTER

ROSTER

15~

HORNITOS LODGE, No. 98.
Hornitos, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Huber Small Spahr, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Nicolas Solari, Master,
David Orr Paterson, Jun. Deacon,
Indian Gulch, Cal.
Julian Joseph Bauer, Sen. Ward., Murace Newman Black, Marshal,
John William Collins, Jun. Ward., William Newton McGregor, Ste.ward,
William Proctor Branson, Treas., Samuel James Prouse, Steward,
Charles Edward Bauer, Tyler:
William Adams, Secretary,

Hornitos, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Miller, Clarence Lamont
Adams, William, P. M.
Mora, John Frank
A vis, William Burkett
McGregor, William Newton
Bauer, Charles Edward
Ong, Jackson Washington
Bauer, Joseph Julian
Paterson, David Orr
Black, Murice Newman
Prouse, Samuel James
Bradley, Oliver Uriel
Reeb, George
Branson, Joseph
Rowland, Archibald Gann
Branson, William Proctor, P. M.
Spagnoli,
Joseph
Brown, Samuel Lestel'
Spahr, Huber Small, P. M.
.Bunker, Charles Edward
Solari, Frank Nicholas
Collins, John William
Souza, John Maria
Cornett, John Robert
Sullivan, Daniel Guy
Gornert, John
Thorn, Joseph Franklin
Grade, Willi.am Adolph
Thorn, George McKendra
Guest, Samuel John
Trabucco, John Babtista
Henricks, Albert, P. M.
Washington. Patrick
Henricks, Samuel
Webber, George Edward
King, William Booth

-36

LA GRANGE LODGE, No. 99 .
Merced, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Abell Robinson, S en. Deacon,·
Verge Hamilton Gerard, Master,
Scott Hughes, Junior Deacon,
Merced, Cal.
Archibald Lewis Silman, Sen. Ward., William Edward Landram, Steward,
Charles Benton Harrell, Jun. Ward., Isaac M. Kochman, Steward,
William McKinney Guild, Tyler.
Carter Landram, Treasurer,
Charles Herbert Wright, Secretary,
Merced, Cal., ca re Yosemite Valley R. R.

153

MEMBERS:
laker, John William
Heitman, Hubert, P. M.
llaker, Oscar AlexanJer, P M.
Higgins, Frank Lincoln
lla:rter, James Robert
Howard, Amos Edwin
llallard, John Rensaleer
Hughes, James Boaz
llarfleld, George Hardwick
Huls, Herbert Kimball
Bird, Isaac
Hunt, William Horto1
Bloss, George Stone
James, Francis Eugene
Blumenthal, Bernard
Jenkins, Roy Horace
Bradley, Fred
Jones, George '.Jhilton
Brantley, Samuel King
Jones, Joseph Simpson
Burchell, Milton Cook
Kinney, George Oscar, P. M.
Carpenter, Ransome Ambers
Kochman, Isaac M.
l'ook, William Roy
Landers, James Thomas
Corwin, Andrew Chandler
Landram, Carter, P . M.
Crane, Bert
Landram, William Edward, P. M.
Croop, William Bigler
Leonard, James, P. M.
Cunningham, Emmett Turner, P. M. Lilley, Walter Eastman
Cunningham, James Charles
Maddux, George
Czerny, Clyde Benton
Massengale, Rir,hard Eugene
Czerny, .John, P. M.
Means, William Leland, P. M.
Deaner, John Allen
Meany, Anthony Warfield
Ellis, Julius Hymen
Meehan, Richard Andrew
Farr, George Daniel
Morse, Joseph Leach
Fruit, Jefferson
Moutray, Asa Edward
Gerard, Virgil Hamilton
McPherson, Hiram Archibald
Nelson, Hugo F. L.
Gervasio, Jacintho Rodrigues
Givens, Eleazer Virgil
Nickerson, Grant Haines
Givens, Thomas Thift
0 'Brien, Edward Stephen, P. M.
Goldberg, William Louis
Oliver, Oscar Marion, P. M.
Goldman, Morri~
Ordway, Francis Moody
Gracey, Robert, P. M.
Painter, Eugene Deshong
Graham, John Richard
Parkinson, Robert John
Gray, John Alexander
Peck, Norman Sumner
Gregory, William Valentine
Pedreira, Antonio Freitas, P. M.
Guild, William McKinsey
Robinson, John Abel
Gurr, Alfred Richard
Roes, Henry Christopher
Hall, Thomas Albert
Scofield, A. Hamon
Hardwick, William Jefferson
Shaffer, Charles R.
Harrell, Charles Benton
Shaffer, Harold Stanley
Harris, Charles
Silman, Archibald Lewis
Harris, Morris Louis
Simon, Charles, P. M.
Harris, Ruben
Simon, James
Hayward, Alvin Eugene
Smith, Arthur Montell
Heitman, Frederick William
Terrill, Overton Harrison

15i

ROSTER

Vincent, Marion M.
Weaver, Christian Stoner
Widenmann, Wm. K.
Wilbur, Albert Harper
Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Abbott, George William

ROSTER

Winton, Gordon Harvey
Wright, Charles Herbert, P. M.
Yoakum, George Washington
Young, Bertram King
Zirker, Adolph .Jacob
-98
WITHDRAWN:
Hurd, Jarvis

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Darby, James Frank
Badt, Aaron
Knox, James Walter
Law, Thomas Chalmers

DIED:
Ralston, Clark
Saunders, William Ivy
Tetzlafl', Frank

CLAY LODGE, No.

1.aKamp, Frank
1,aKamp, John Henry, P. M .
1,amphrey, Frank
1,ane, William Willi11
J,t>ar, William Henry
1,tnder, Robert Edward
J,ohman, Peter
Mackay, John Gor<lan
Maker, George Samuel
McCormack, Malcolm
McKenzie, Benjamin Bliss, P . M .
Nelson, Charles Robert, P. M
Nicholls, John
Nicholls, Sydney Walton
Noyes, Henry Leonard
Noyes, Mark Fish

Barber, Chas. Edward
Barker, Charles Oscar
Beamer, John
Berry, John Murray
Brice, Joseph Albert
Buckman, Benjamin Sims
Chase, Alonzo Bert
Clendening, John
Collins, Charles Franklin
Cook, William
Curtis, Solon McKean, P ..M.
Drynan, Alexander
Duncan, David
Erskine, Alexand<!r Edwin

IOI.

MEMBERS:
J<:rskine, Eugene Trafton
Faller, George Rudolph, P . M.
Frank, Arthur Adluff
Griffiths, Benjamin Sims
. Halsey, Henry Hyer
Hepner, John Frederick
Hill, David
Holmes, Willi11-m John
Huysink, Bernard Henry
Jacobs, LoreJ>zo
Jameson, James William
Joesink, Bernard Henry
Ketchum, Frank
Knapp, James Beebe, P. M

Peck, William E.
Powers, Edgar Bowe, P . M.
Price, William W.
Rickenback, John Wilson
Robie, Ira Allen
Robinson, Walton
Ross, Howe
Rupert, Delos Moore
Schmidt, George Wilhelm
Schow, Hans Johnson
Shaffer, John Wesley
Stewart, James David
Sherriff, Henry
Thomas, John
Towle, Arthur Warren
Towle, George Gould

-60

DIED:
Diner, Henry

Dutch Flat, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon .
OFFICERS:
George Rudolph Fuller, Master,
Charles Kempsted, Senior Deacon,
Dutch Flat, Cal.
Frank Collins, Junior Deacon,
Sydney Walton Nicholls, Sen. Ward., James W. Jameson, Marshal,
Edward T. Erskine, Jun. Warden, John W. Shaffer, Steward,
John Reamer, Treasurer,
Aleck E. Erskine, Steward,
John Nicholls, Secretary,
John Henry LaKamp, T·yler.
Dutch Flat, Cal.

155

OROVILLE LODGE, No.

103.

Oroville, Butte c;iounty.
Stated Meetings, last Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Claude Grant Crowe, Master, .
Francis Marioi:i Stedman, Chap/ail!,
Oroville, Cal.
Douglas Reis Jacobs, Sen. Deacon,
Walter White Ree\:e, Sen. Warden, Richard Ernest Foster Uren, J. D.,
Richard Pierson Blood, Jun. Ward., Roger Sylvester Kitrick, Marshal,
Herbert James Graham, Treasurer, George Henry Gilbert, Steward,
Floyd Lawrence Humphrey, Sec.,
Scott Lawton, Steward,
Oroville, Cal.
Daniel Hilton, Tyler.
Aaronson, Geo. Cahoon
Ackerman, George Lorenz
Anthony, Arthur Wilton
Atchison, Thomas Andrew
Atkin; James Henry
Atkins, Frank
Bennett, George Wilbur
Blockley, Edward
Blood, Charles Ai
Blood, Delos Moody

MEMBERS:
Blood, Richard Pierson
Boalt, Eben
Boalt, Gilbert Denison
Boring, David McClure
Boring John Harrison
Boynton, Albert Eugene, P. M.
Breslauer, Theo. Louis
Brooks, Frank
Bullington, Perry Franklin
Burnight, Geo. C.

156

Clemence, Reginald
Cleveland, Judson A.
Cleveland,· Newton
Clifford, Reginald George
Cline, Charles Stephenson ·
Cline, Clarence Charles
Cobb, Sherman Tecumseh
Crossen, Elmer lliarcellus
Crossley, William Lybrand
Crowe, Claude Grant, P. M.
Dalzell, Richard
de Franco, Frank
de Zouche, Hubert F.
Diehl, William Oscar
Dreher, Charles John
Durbrow, William
Dyer, George Washington
Dyer, George Sterling
Ellis, Charles Le Roy
Fairchild, Ernest Day
Fairchild, Howard
Felton, George
Fletcher, Harry
Gardner, Charles Walter
George, Frank Elwin
Gilbert, George Henry
Gingles, William Wilson
Grace, James Wilmer, P. M
Grace, Robert Patrick
Graham, Harry Todd
GrahaI)l, Herbert James, P. M .
Gray, Carleton, P . M.
Gray, john Carleton, P. M.
Green, Louis Lincoln
Green, Robl\rt Moore
Gregory, Hiram Doyle
Haddock, William Herbert
Halderman, William
Hale, John Wesley
Hamlyn, John Joseph, P. M.
Harmon, Benjamin Franklin
Hecker, Frederick William
Helms, Houstan
Henderson, Howard
Herrin, William James

ROSTER
Higgins, Martin Floyd
Hill, William
Hills, Darwin Oscar
Hilton, Daniel, P. M.
Hogan, James Harvey, Jr.
Hover, .Charles Giles
Howard, Winfield Lee
Howell, John Russell
Huffart, Charles Alexander
Humphrey, Floyd
Huntington, Chas. Frederick
Jacobs, Douglas Reis
Jacobs, Leslie Louis
Jacoby, Harry, P. M.
James, Francis Evan
James, Thomas Ward, P. M.
Johnson, August
Johnson, John Charles
Jones, Albert Foster
Jones, Edward Brant
Kalsch, ]'rank
Keifer, William Hammon
Kelley, Thomas Joseph
Keyes, George David
Kitrick, Roger Sylvester, P . M.
Lantz, .John Delbert
Lawton, Scott
Lee, Thomas Corydon
Lindsay, Ernest Edison
Long, Jacob Michael
Maack, Frederick William
Macfarlane, Donald, P. M.
MacKusick, Edward Mansfield
Mann, Arthur Riley
Mann, Joseph Aaron
Mansfield, George Campbell
Mansfield, Isaac LeRoy
Marks, Harold Joe
Marks, Leon Heilbron
Matthews, George Henry
McCall, William McLellan
McConnoughy, Charles William
McGuffin, J 'ames Abraham
McKenzie, Colin Randolph
McKnight, George William

ROBT EE.
Mengler, Henry Andreas
Merrill, Austin Page
Merrill, Gilman Berlin
Myer, John Frederick E.
Myers, John Franklin
Meyers, Mark C.
Mitchell, Edward James
Moncure, Ashby
Morse, Anthony Wayne
Moulin, Ferdinand Victor
Mullen, James j 'oseph
Murphy, Albert Leslie
Newbold, Edwin Henry
Park, James Milne, P. M.
Patterson, Willis Howard
Prince, Luther Adelbert
Reardan, Thomas Birkhead
Reece, Walter White
Ricketts, John William
Riehl, Albert Sigel
Rippey, George Washington
Roderick, Harry Leslie Lyle
Roscoe, Thomas Howell
Sangster, Joseph Edwin
SaYille, Richard
Schoof, August Claus
Sennett, Joseph Benton
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
Short, Howard Porter
Simmons, Edward
Simon, Samuel '3amuel, P. M.
Smullen, Harry Leslie
Dole, Alfred Rowell
Ranique, Jules Edmond

157

Soares, John St&nisla.>"
Sprague, Frederick Adams
Stapleton, Robert George
Stedman, Francis Madon
Steele, Harry Oskar
Stickney, David
Sullivan, John
Telford, George
Toms, Homer Smith, P. M.
Totman, James Alexander
Travers, Walter Oats
Tucker, Ira Lester
Turner, Fred Moreland
Turner, Wallace Ralph
Ulm, Daniel N.
Uren, Richard E. Ji'.
Vail, Henry Eugene
Van Deinse, Francis Christia:u
Voorhees, Walter Pearl
Wakeham, Ed.
Wakeham, Luther
Wnterhouse, John Franci9
Wattis, Edmond Orson
Wehner, Adolph Joseph
White, .James Abanatha
Whitiiig, Eugene Carlisle
Whiting, Frank Moore
Williams, James MadiRon
Wilson, John West
Woodman, Charles David
Woolf, George
Wyckoff, James Louis
-'174

WITHDRAWN:
Shirran, Frank Leslie
Vancleaf, William Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Christie, Robert Miner
McCoy, Benjamin Lincoln
Hilton, William Montague
M yerhoffer, Orvald Siguard T.
Hudson, William Bell
Wedgewood, Edwin Gordon

ROSTER

ROSTER

158

LEXINGTON LODGE, No.

104.

El Monte, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Josiah .Whitcomb Hudson, Master,
Puente, Cal.
Robert Rankin, Senior Warden,
Orin A. Mannon, Junior Warden,
James D. Cleminson, Treasurer,
Grover Cleveland, Secretary,
El Monte, Cal.
Ashton, Ordie Delos
Baker, Isaac l!~unk, P. M.
Barton, John Waterman
Bell, Thomas
Boyer, Samuel C.
Broaded, George D.
Cash, Edward
Cleminson, Hugh D.
Cleminson, James D.
Coffin, George Henry, P. M.
Cogswell, Prescott Franklin
Collins, Leonidas E.
Cowan, George \¥.
Cross, George E.
Davis, Matthew J.
Davis, William C.
DeGarmo, Rollie Frank
Dewhurst, Charles
Dietzel, John William
Dietzel, Julius
Dodson, Elbert J,
Drake, Alfred C., P. M.
Elliott, Alexander
Elliott, William
Ellington, Harry A.
Farmer, Louis
Gardner, Robert
Gordon, Charles Eager
Harper, William

Alfred C. Drake, Chaplain,
Huston M. Robinson, Sen. Deacon,
Theophilus Kallmeyer, Jun. Deacon,
George Henry Coffin, Marshal,
Charles David McLagan, Steward,
M. R. Richards, Steward,
Robert Ir~in, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Houston, John
Houston, Thomas
Hudson, Josiah Whitcomb
Hudson, William Rowland, P. M.
Irwin, Carl Ellis
Irwin James
Irwin, John
Irwin, Robert John
Irwin, William S.
Kallmeyer, Cornelius
Kallmeyer, Paul
Kallmyer, Theophilos
Kauffman, Milton
Kauffman, Isaac F.
Killian, J·onas E.
Killian, Jonas S.
Killian, Joseph B.
Killian, Lawson B.
Lambert, Thomas F.
Langstadter, Isaac
Lawton, Homer
Malcom, William
Mannon, Orin Adrian
McCaige, George Dyer
McCoy, John
McLeod, Jolm David, P. M.
McMichael, Thomas Reese
Morris, Edwin
Parrish, ;Elkanah C.

Pearson, William Robert, P. M.
Potthoff, Robert
l'rillman, Joseph
Raab, Carl Frederick
Rankin, Robert
Renfro, George B.
Robinson, Houston M.
Howland, Davis
Sappington, Frank P.
Sawyer, William Shepherd, P. M.
Saylin, Isaac
Severe, Willis
Shirpsher, Ephraim J.
Reed, Elgar

15\!

Soward, Charles
Stang, Fred
Stanton, Frank Harden
Stanton, Harry W.
Taylor, Rolland D.
Thurman, Joseph Coy, P. M.
Walker, William Thomas
Watson, Arlow Alvin
Wernett, Joseph William
\Vilbur, George Lincoln
Whitaker, Harry E.
Wiggins, Thomas J.
Woods, Ha.rry J., P . M.

-84

WITHDRAWN:
Killian, Waldo
DIED:
Lochridge; William E.

ARCATA LODGE, No.

106.

Arcata, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Edward Morrell, Master,
Charles Isaiah Harpst, Chaplain,
Arcata, Cal.
David Wood, Sen. Deacon
George William Averell, Sen. Ward., Robert Lewis Jones, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Abourn Wright, Jun. W., Sylvester Myers, Steward,
Noah H. Falk, Treasurer,
John Franklin Benton Steward
'f homas Ruthven Emerson, Sec.,
,
Philip Mathews, Tyler.'
Arcata, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Carter, Matthew Collins
Anderson, James Peter
Averell, George William
Chamberlain, Willis Elmer
Baldwin, Hubert Alexander
Christie, Alexander
Barber, Herbert Anson
Cooper, Arthur Fenimore
Barnes, Alfred
Crawford, Luther James
Bell, Philetus
Cropp, Daniel Tappenden
Bohmansson, Robl:!rt Hugo
Cullberg, Isaac, Jr.
Brizard, Etienne Dupuy
Davies, Jasper Newton, P. M.
Brown, Jeremiah Ralph
Deming, Byron Briggs
Bull, Ralph Waldo
Devlin, Elmer Leslie
Burchard, <;teorge Horatio, P. M.
Drewry, Charles Henry

160

ROSTER

Duprey, Alfred Isadore
Emerson, Thomas Henry
Emerson, Thomas Ruthven
Ericson, August William
Everding, Louis Charles
Falk, Charles Eugene
Falk, Elijah
Falk, Noah H.
Falor, Frank Eugene
Fountain, Mat hew Francis
Garrett, William Xenophon
Gillis, Cecil Edgar
Gillis, Walter Henry
Graeter, Luther Drury
Greenwald, Moses, P. M.
Gross, Martin
Hansen, Charles Emile
Hansen, Peter Andreas
Harpst, Charles Isaiah, P. M.
Harpst, George Wilson
Hal'pster, Irvine Levi, P. M.
Hawton, Robert
Heckman, William ·Henry Harrison
Henry, James Wellington
Hore!, Francis R.
Honda, Antone Joseph
J-lon<la, Bohemia! Antonin
Honda, .Tohn Paul
Hunter, Wm. Fletcher
Jackson, Harry Woodville
rohnson, .TosClph
Jones, Robert Lewis
Kailstrom, Charles August
Kane, John Ewings
Keller, William
Kirby, William Henry
Korbel, Joseph Frank, Jr.
Krohn, Julius John, P. M.
Larsen, Abraham
Mandahl, Carl l'fostav
Marken, Oetje Herman G., P. M.
Marvin, George D.
Ma thews, Philip
l\foGownn, Daniel Walter
McMillan, Roland

Menefee, Joseph Senevy
Menefee, Peter Mason
Monkman, John Francis
Moore, Frederick John
Moore, Henry
Moore, James McDonald
.Morrell, Frank Edward
Myers, Sylvester
Nelson, James Krag
N eeman, Andrew
Nixon, Charies Henry
Nixon, William
Noe, J esse Lafayette
Ogilvey, William Henry
Parr, Ralph Richardson
Parton, John
Patenaude, Amos Octave
Patenaude, Emanuel
Perigot, Gustave
Petch, Thomas Robert
Preuss, Theo'dore Reinhold
Roberts, Melvin Parker, P. M.
Ross, James
Scott, George Murdock
Seaver, Allen
Simpson, Henry
Smith, Frank AdamG
Smith, Thaddeus Albert
Spring, Obadiah Hill
Stearns, George Addison
Stern, Bernard Frank
s·tern, Charles Frank
Stewart, Adam Hugh
Stone, We1dey Whipple, P. M.
Teal, George Franklin
Theerman, Henry Harm
Tooby, Frank Hart
Wailace, D!l.vid Dougli.s
Wiley, Rease Martin
Wilson, James
Wood, David
Wood, William Meade
Wright, Frederick Abourn
Zaruba, Vaclar
Zehender, George
-112

ROSTER
DIED:
Cullberg, Isaac
Sudbrack, Albert

111111, .John Clark

PAJARO LODGE, No. uo.
Watsonville, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

l'homas MacQuiddy, Master,
.lZO Callahan Street.
Edward H . Nohrden, Sen. Ward.,
lfobcrt H. Hudson, Jun. Ward.,
l 'harles A. Palmtag, Treasurer,
I ll•nry C. Weisenburger, Secretary,
444 Main Street.

Charles L. Thachery, Chaplain,
Ernest H. Haack, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas M. Wright, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick W . Willett, Marshal,
Walter S. Brown, Steward,
Lynn L. Marsh, Steward,
Palmer G. Townsend, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Coffman, Stephen William
Alexander, Jewel
Cooper, William Burton
Alexander, Louis Sol
Cox, Arnold William
t'I n<lerson, Carl
Cox, John Francia, P. M.
Andrews, Perry Morton
Cutler, James Willoughby
Arnold, Carl A.
Delmere, Alexander
Austin, Frederick Sans
Dresser, Arthur Thomas, P. M.
Baker, Cary Hanna
Ifasterday, George Speltine
Barton, Timothy Guy
E ckert, Wmiam Lloy d
Beebe, Charles Emmell
Foltz, John B.
Bellamy, Benson Clark, P. :M.
Foltz, Wm. Sheridan
Bixby, William Aaron
Gardner, Jonathan Edward, P. M.
Brassell, Hans Peter
Haack, Ernest H.
Brewington, George Francis
Hammel, William Henry
Brewington, George Hamilton
Hanson, Eugene Waldron
Brewington, Harry B.
Harford, Lyman
Briggs, Charles Oscar
Harris, John Franklin
Brown, Walter Stephen
Harvey, Edward Everett
Burland, Edward Grant
Hollingsberry, Frank George
Burland, William Henry
Hudson, Robert Henry
Campbell, Robert Edgar
Hudson, Thomas Swan
Chapman, Frank Joel
Hunsacker, Oscar William
Cheesebrough, Charles Edwin
Hushbeck, Andrew
Clark, Edgar Lewis
Ish, Harry Edmund
Cleveland, George Clifton
Jarrett, Joseph Samuel
t'l l1ers, Roy Oliver D.

11

161

162

ROSTER

ROSTER

Jarrett, Stephen Samuel, P. M.
Jimmison, Alvin Harry
Judd, Hugh William
Keopke, Frederick Herman
Kilburn, Carl Mearl
Kilburn, Frederick Augustus
Kitchen, Henry Burton
King, James Isaac
Lennard, Frederick John
MacQuiddy, Thomas Smith, P. M.
Maher, David Francis
Mauk, Edwin Henry
Mauk, Franklin Edwin, P. M.
Marsh, Lynn L.
Martin, George Parclee
McEwen, Archie Donald
McEwen, John Herbert
McGowan, William John
Mcintosh, Geo. Dave
McLean, Donald Lewellan
Morey, John Jaeob
Morgan, George Duiguid
Nichelson, Murdock
Nohrden, Frederic Herman
Nohrden, Edward Henry
Palmtag, Charles A.
Palmt11g. Elmer Rowe
Porter, Edwin Everett
Porter, Warren Reynolds
Rich, Ellsworth Lincoln
Rodgers, Frank
Rodgers, HAnry Browner
Rodgers, Spencer Clay
Schaubacher, Julius Albert
Schwab, Manfred

Frazer, John Thomes
Faunt Le ·R-o;v, .Joseph
;Holston, William A.

Shaver, Eugene U.
Shaw, Frank Joseph
Shearin, Daniel Thomas
Sill, George Wellington, P. M
Silliman, Charles Oscar
Silliman, George Francis
Silliman, Walter Trafton
Storm, Peter
Sterling, Alexander
Swearengen, Frank Corday
Thackery, Charles Laumaster
Tolman, George Perkins
Townsend, Palmer Gardner
Trafton, George Arthur
Trafton, John Edmund
Trafton, Thomas Eugene
Trafton, William Arthur
Trafton, Howard Valentine
Tuttle, Iowa Harley, P. M.
Uren, Joseph R., P. M.
Vaughan, George
Waters, William Lee
Watkinson, Alfred
Watters, Peter Kemp
Weeks, William Henry
Weisenberger, Henry Conrad, P. M.
West, Henry E.
White, Charles John
Wilkinson, Walter John
Willett, Frederick William, P. M.
Wood, Robert Edward
Wright, Thomas Marion
Wyckoff, Herbert Cope
Zimmerman, Edward Henry
-llfl

wrrHDRAWN:
Hopkins, James
Miller, Guy
Peckham, Harry Augustus

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:_
Benteen, William Henry

163

DIED:

\ l1lrl<'h, David Metcalf
llurlnnd, Robert
Urlras, Elmer Ellsworth
Jl'11lton, John Lewis

Howard, John Allen
Rodgers, Charles H .
Waters, .Tames
Wyekofl', Edward Francis

CHICO LODGE, No.

III.

Chico, Batte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
f .• •l!l William Phillips, Master,
Charles Henry Camper, Chaplain,
Chico, Cal.
Harry Davis March, Sen. Deacon,
Chester Happy Roake, Sen. Warden, Will Chaler Wilde, Junior Deacon,
Fn•d Hunt Groat. Junior Warden, Jefferson Davis March, Marshal,
~amuel Kansas Troxel, Treasurer,
Joseph Rankin Young, Steward, .
'\111(11st Leonard Neubarth, Secy.,
Roy Gordon Estes, Steward,
I'. 0. Box 157, Chico, Cal.
Harmon McCargar, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Campbell, Joseph Hanes
A<lams, Isaac Benjamin
Camper, Charles Henry, P. M.
Alexander, George Randall
Canfield, Eugene Erastus
Alien, George Claude
Carney, George Washington
Anderson, Fred John
Carpenter, Chester Roy
Anderson, Frederick Martin
Cecil, George Francis
Andrews, Charles Abra.m
Chalmers, Solomon Henry
Applegate, William .James
Chambers, James
Axtell, Samuel 'l'homas
Clark, Liston
Baker, Walter Jay
Barnard, Timothy Henry, P. M.
meek, Andrew William
Clough, Francis Albert
Barr, Zacoriah T.
nollins, William Alexander
Batham, Lloyd Arthur
Costar, William James, P. M
Becker, Carl HArman
nooke, .Tohn George
Bennett, .Tesse W.
BennE>tt, Wesley Valentine
Cooney, George Elmo
Cooper , Daniel Wirt
Bernhard, Harry Herman
Costar, Garrison
Bohlender, Thomas L.
Costar, Lloyd
Bonham, William Harland
Crabb, James Nelson
Boucher, Josiah, Jr.
Crail, Luke Dillard
Bowman, William James
Crew, William Henry
Bradley, William Leroy
Crouc h, Ben Elisha
Brandstatt, .Tohn Nelson
Crowder, Clifford I,ee
Broyles, Adam Courtney
Cuddeback, Edson N.
Bryan, Elden Ebert

...

164

ROSTER

ROSTER

Cunningham, Charles Arnold
James, Evan Albert
Cunningham, Wilburn Wagenseller Johnson, TheodJre
CusRick; Barney
Jones, George Washington
Cussick, John
Jones, Ralph Taylor
Cummings, Charles Edward
Jones, Samuel
Daly, John Cardiff, P. M.
Kellom, Arthur Sylvester
Dean; William Benjamin
Keppel, Garret
Decious, Joseph Vernon
Kern, Ralph
Decious, Joseph Warren
Kerr, Archibald Thompson, P. M.
Degnan, George William
Kennedy, John Wm. Mackay, P . M.
Dillon, Thomas Franklin
Kennedy, William Freeman
Dooley, Jay Wilbur
Lacey, Frank Belcher
Downing, Harry Rufus
Lane, Frederick Walter
Downing, Homer John
Lausen, Henry Datlef
Dugger, James Madison, P. M.
r~ebourvran, Arthur James
Durham, Robert Wellington
Lebourveau, Clarence Wilt
Enloe, Newton Thomas
Lightfoot, Homer Franklin
Entler, Joseph Franklin
Lingo, Arthur
Erickson, Philip Roswell
Linn, William Burney
Estes, Roy Gordon
Lothrop, Hale Hartford
Evans, Joseph Mabery
Lovett, William Bottimore
Faulkner, Louis Glass, P. M
Lowell, George A.
Fell, Edward Robert
Lung, Alfred William .1<1 •
Florence, Edwar'1 Walter
Macdonald, Angus Campbell
Garner, Leon Mason
Maltby, William Frederick
Garnier, Thomas Ralph
March, Charles Alexander
Gl~ckman, Arthur Walter
March, Harry Davis
Groat, Fred Hunt
March, James Franklin
Goodwin, Frederic Carlton
March, Jefferson Davis, P. M
Guill, Lee Bryan
Martien, Joseph GilbPrt
Guynn, Creed· Ashley
Martin, James
Guynn, J;>leasant Marion
McAnarlin, William
Guynn, William Rose
Mccargar, Harmon, P. M.
Harden, Jesse H.
McGrath, Harry Hill
Harris, Charles
McGuffin, Virgil Newton
Haughton, Joseph Richardson
McKenzie, Earl L.
Harvey, John Wesley, P. M.
Means, Samuel Boyd
Hegan, J arnes
Messinger, .John Gardner
Hen.dricks, Thomas Perry
Messinger, Reuben Henry
Henshaw, Park
Meybem, Emil, P. M.
Heron, Patrick L. W.
Miller, George Ogden
Hilliard, Marion
Miller. William Henry, P. M
Holmes, Frederick N.
Mitchell, James Ewing
Hughes, Charles S.
Moir, Harry Saunders
Isham, Edwin
Montgomery, James W. Bra1lfrr<l

Schmidt, George
Moody, Stephen Prescott
Schooler, William Henry
Morgue, August William
Schultz, William Henry
Morton, Austin Earl
Morse, George Payson
Sears, Hal K.
Sewell, Leo Alverton
Nelson, Henry
Shaw, Baker Ewing
Nl'ubartb, August Leonard
Newton, Oran
Shaw, George Thomas
Shirley, Lemuel Crittenden
Nichols, Harry Evan
Nottelmann, 1' retlerick Jacob, P, N.. Spangler, Levi !rad
Nunn, Samuel Johnson
Spencer, Thomas Cass
Stansbury, Oscar
Nunn, William Harper, P. M
Nugent, Harry George
Stoker, Frank Lewis
Stubbs, Richanl Nelson
Oberweis, Jo8eph
Peake, \V1lliam Humphrey
Sutcliffe, Emmott Walton
Perry, William Sabie
Taylor, Gilbert Hart
Phillips, Leon William
'ferstegge, Frank Wm.
Phillips, Richard, P. M.
Thatcher, :E'rank Marion
Picton, Thomas George
Thomas, Jesse G.
Polk, Thomas H. Benton
'fhrower, John Oscar
Polk, William Down~·
Thrower, JoReph Bennett
Power, Robert Wright
Tormey, Bernard Eugene
Rawlins, William Franklin
'fripp, Charles Ammi
Reynolds, Ed. 'l'illotson, P. M .
Troxel, Kansas Buchanan
Reynolds, Sherman Allyn
Troxel, Samuel Kansas, P. M.
Hichardson, Clarence Colin
Turner, William Albert
Richardson, Harry Eugene
Vadney, Edward Comilla
Roake, Chester Happy
•
Vadney, George Edward
Robbie, William, P. M.
Washburn, Francis M.
Robinson, John Rose
Waterland, Joh:'! Sanford
Rogers, Joseph Henry
Weaver, Herman Bowman
Roper, John Wesley
White, Harry Darius
Roper, Louis Westacott
Wilde, Will Chaler
Roohr, Francis Louis
Will, William Emerson
Roth, Harry Augustus
Winchester, William C. S.
Winders, Archie
Safford, Edwy Knight
Sanborn, Alphonso Henry
Wooley, Vernor Stearns
Sauber, Edwin Stanton
Young, Dillard Marion
Sawyers.• Frank Edward
Young, James
Schilling, John Stephen
Yonng, Joseph Rankin, P. M. -216
1

WITHDRAWN:
Forcaso, Frank

165

ROSTER

166

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Asher, Robert
Clifford, Charles A.
Kerr, William Thomas
Hallet, Henry

DIED:
Miller, George
Petersen, George Fredrich Christian

SUMMIT LODGE, No. n2.
Knight's Ferry, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Walter Biskmarck Willms, Master, Charles Thomas Kennedy, S. D.,
Knight's Ferry, Cal.
Philip Gabel, Jun. Deacon.
Fred Willard Marston, Sen. Ward.. William Godfrey Bach, Marshal,
Alfred Edward Gatzman, Jun. Ward., Nelson Ernest Collins, Steward,
Alfred Gatzman, Treasurer,
Eady Edward Cole, Steward,
Thomas Harvey Prowse, Secretary, William Francis Bach, Tyler.
Knight's Ferry, Cal.
MEMBERS'
Bach, William Francis
Griffin, Francis Leonidas, P. M.
Bach, William Godfrey, P M.
Hocker, Joseph Lee, P. M.
Beck, John
Kennedy, Charles Thomas, P. · M.
Bentley, Jefferson Daniel
Logan, William David, P. M :
Boone, Tobias Belt
Lowe, Eugene Heber
Campbell, William Edward, P M.
Lowe, Nilus Orfila
Carmichael, Daniel Whitfield
Marston, Frederick Willard
Morgan, Frank Albert
Cole, Eady Edward
Collins, He!'bert
Ostrom, Gilbert Abram
Collins, Nelson Ernest
Prowse, 'l'homaR Harvey, P. M .
Edwards, David Franklin, P. M.
Stephenson, Kenneth Martin
Gabel, Philip
Tulloch, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Gable, William
Tulloch, David Whitelaw
Tulloch, John Franklin
Gatzman, Alfred, P. M.
Tulloch, Praben Neilson
Gatzman, Alfred Edward
-32
Willms, Walter Bismarck
Gookin, Albert Millard
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McCabe, George Thomas
Strawbridge, Thomas Jefferson
Nichols, Elmer Lincoln
Smith, Martin James Joseph
DIED :
Crabtree, Mark Trafton

BOSTER

167

EDEN LODGE, No. n3.
San Leandro, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Driver, Chaplain,
Sydney Briggs Force, Master,
William Woods Shuhaw, Sen. Deac.,
San Leandro, Cal.
Joseph Bertrin Mills, Seit. Warden, Henry Clay Barton, !1111 . Deac.,
George Harvey Ohea, Marshal,
Monroe Drew, Junior Warden,
John Baron Peppin, Steward,
Oscar Jackson Lynch, Treasurer,
Valentine Gilston Preston, Steward,
Charles Wildy McLaughlin, Sec.,
Herman Fred'k Wm. Helms, Tyler.
San Leandro, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Fassett, Charle& Edgar
Abernathy, Henry
Fenn, Edward Thomas Ernest
Ballard, Eugene Cogswell
.Fisher,
Ferdinanil 0.
Barbeiro, Joseph Enos
Femming, John V.
Barton, Henry Clay
Force, Sydney Briggs
Best, Clarence Leo
.Frank, John Nepsomick
Birchinall, Edwin John
Gall, William
Black, Horace Greeley
Gates, Dawson Dave
Boberg, Joseph Andrew
Geisenhofer, Rudolph F. W.
Brown, Alfred Persons
Gray, Newton
Cary, Amzi B., P. M.
Grebe, Herman Frederick
Cary, Harry Ellis
Greene, Daniel Edward
Cary, Talcott Petekin
Hamlin, Benejah Ralph
Christiansen, Chris Frederick
Hansen, Albert Laurits, P. M.
Chrysostomo, Joaquin
Hansen, Jens Christian
Clark, William Amie, P. M.
Hansen, Robert
Coleman, Charles La Grange
Hansen, Sophus A. E.
Coleman; George La Grange
Helms, George Joseph, P. M.
Cowie, George Henry
Helms, Herman Fred. W., P. M.
Crabb, Antonio Enos
Heuricksen, Henry
Crabb, Allie Louis
Henricksen, Neils
Crabtree, Fred
Henrirksen, Neils (2)
Crane, Clarence Burnham
Hill, Otis
Cosby, George Fairfax
Hite, William Edward
Cunningham, William F., P. M.
Hoffman, Eugene
Dawborn, Charles
Holmgren, John Alexander
Deweese, Leonard Harrison
Hopper, John F. Ernest, P. 1\1
Drew, Monroe
Hurlbut,. Charles Benjamin
Driver, John
Jackson, David
Dyer, Edmund Marcellus
Jeffers, Samuel
Eagar, Thomas C.

HlS

ROSTER

Jess, William
Jones, Harris Palmer
J or gens en, Otto Christian
Kern, Jacob Fred
Kirman, Herman Warren
Knox, George Randall
Landis, Herbert Lee, P. M.
Leland, Frank Milton
Lenox, David Hudson
Logan, George William
Lynch, Oscar Jackson
Lynch, Walter Norman
MacKeown, George Arthur
Marlin, Henry Bowers
Martin, Henry Whitney
Martin, Robert Anthony
Matson, Martin Bauder
Matson, William
Mc.Laughlin. Charles Wildy
Medhurst, Charles Sturgeon
Mendell, Edmund Dall
Mendell, .Tohn Martin
Meyers, Fred Olin
Miller, Charles Howard
Mills, Joseph Bertrin
Montgomery, William Stewart
Morin, Hercules Andre, P. M.
Odgers, Frederic.k Thomas
Offersen, Niels
Ohea, George Harvey, P. M.
Oliver, Durett
Olsen, Henry Christian
Page, Robert Stapleton

Pagel, Freil
Park, Vitalis Henry
Pelton, Allen Eli, P. M.
Peppin, James Baron
Peterson, Peter John
Pimentel, Francisco
Plummer, Walter Bruce
Preston, Valentine Gilston
Reid, Alexander Baer
Reid; .[ohn G.
Rollins, Edwin Oregon
Rowles, William John
Sawyer, Thomas Edward
Schleuter, Edwin Charles
Shuhaw, William Woods
Singleton, John
Smith, James Dale
Smith, Kirby Rarnitz, P. M.
Smith, Louis Napoleon Bonaparte
Smith, Will H.
•Stenzel, Fritz
Sturtevant, Noah Thomas, P. M.
Toffelmie.r, Dou~las Ulyssis
Treadwell, James
Watkins, Edmund Anderson, ·P. M.
Weaver, Albert S.
Wemmer, William Leonard
Wilkie, Thomas B.
Will, John August Thomas
Young, Robert Douglas
You'lg, J·ames Harry
Young, William Henry, P. M.
Zerweck, Walter Ernest
-1211

WITHDRAWN:
Stone, Egbert B.
DIED :
Fleming, George

ROl::lT.E R

16!)

CONCORD LODGE, No. II7.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

lohn Henry Gilpin, Master,
Isaac Dawson, Chaplain,
California State Bank.
Wm. Frederick Frieseke, Sen. Deac.,
tlrnnklin Edwin Earl Stahl, Sen. W., F1ederick Chesbrow Hunt, Jun. D.,
I lcnry Andrew Senf, l11n. Warden, Geo. Frederick Shepherd, Marshal,
( :{'O. Henry Wm. Lichthardt, Treas., Charles Ewald Vorlander, . Steward,
William Henry Hevener, Secretary, Ryall Clyde Eyerly, Steward,
~fasonic Temple.
Albert Elgin Robinson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Appleton, William Henry
Gilpin, John Henry
lkaton, Carl William, P. M.
Godwin, Thomas
Green, Charles Fredrick
Beech, William Don, P. M.
Bicknell, Hilliard Cottingham
Gregory, Eugene Julius, P. M.
Bicknell, Raymond Belcher
Guthrie, John WiUiam
Bishop, Arthur Tucker ·
Harrell, Albert Marshal
Book, Franklin Weaver
Harris, George J., P. M.
Bonetti, Celio
Harris, William Wesley
Bowes, William Edward
Harvey, Gregory Lucas
Bowsher, Amos Luther
Heilbron, Henry August, P. M.
Boyd James Maddison
Heilbron, Henry Adolph, Jr.
Braddock, Alfred Mcintire P.
Hery, Robert Leopold
Hesson, Thomas Joseph, P. M.
Brendel, John Philip
Carroll, Edgar Barclay, P. M.
Havener, William Charles
Carroll, .John Francis
Hevener, William Henry, P. M.
Caswell, William Averill
Holzinger, Herman
Chitpman, John Maurice, P. M.
Hunt, Fred.r ick Chesbrow
<1hatfield, Thomas F.
Irvine, William John
.TameR, .Tames Merrill
Daggett, Calhoun Jules
Dri;ge, Otto Daniel
.Tones, William
Dunbar, Alexander
Jordan, Luther Campbell
Duncan, Cornelius
Korn, Seymour
1'~yerly, Ryall Clyde
Laeremans, Richard Henry
Farris, Horace Orland
Lang, Joseph
Fischer, Henry
Lichthardt, George Henry P.
Fox, Thomas, P. M.
Lichthardt, George W. Henry
Frieseke, William Fredrick
Lindsay, William Kinkade
Gerrish, Samuel Howard, P. M.
Lyo11., James Francis, P. M.
Oillinwaters, Grant Franklin
Martin, George Wa~hington
Oilmore, Robert Mccallen
Matthias, Louis Wm., P. M.

liO

ROSTER

Mattson, Irving Byron
Mattson, Melbert Adolph
McAlli~ter, Welford Clarence
McFarlane, Arthur Alpine
Menke, Anton
Menke, Johz:
Moll, Philip Harry
Morris, Chester Culwell
Morten, John L.
Nuttall, Levi, P. M.
0 'Brien, Alfred Woodbury
Oldfield, Alfred Budd
Oldfield, Wm. Baggaley, P. M.
Pearl, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Perschke, Otto Julius
Platt, Philemon Eli
Pope, Samuel, Jr.
Poska, Samuel
Props, Joel Lee
Reynold!!, George Henry
Robinson, Albert Elgin, P. M.
Saemann, Carl
Sanborn, Alfred Willis
Sanderson, Marien ·

Shepherd, George Frederick, P. M.
Schindler, Louis Cyrus, P. M.
Schocke, C~arks August, P. M.
Schroth, John George
Schumacher, George Max
Schumacher, Oscar Henry
Senf, H enry Andrew
Simmonds, William Shape!
Si1r.onsen, Carl
Smith, Alexander Miller
Smith, Charles Freeman
Smith, Eli Mit~hel
Stahl, Franklin Edwin Earl
Tovelle, Roy Geeting
Vicary, George Salser
Vorlander, Chas Ewald
Wahrhaftig, Moaes Solomon
Walsh, William
Watkins, Richard, P. M.
W11tkins, Richard Malcolm
Whitelaw, John, P . M.
Wylie, John Wellington, P. M.
Yocum, William Kendall
Young, William Henry
-108

WITHDRAWN:
Lyon, Clarence Frothingham
SUSPENDED FOH. NON·PAYMENT OF DUES :
McKibbin, George

CLINTON LODGE, No. ug.
1go, Shasta County.
Stated Meeting's, S11turday of or next p!'cceding Full Mo.Ju.
OFFICERS:
Louis Albert Davison, Master,
James Whittington George, Sen. D.,
Igo, Cal.
Robert Jones, Junior Deacon,
Francis Marion A. Wilder, Sen. W., Wm. Jeremiah Hammons, Marshal,
Bert Wm. Forschler, Jun. Ward., · Carl George Voss, Steward,
William Bert Hammons, Treasurer, T hadius Alonzo Jones, Steward,
Charles Nelson Kingsburg, Sec.,
Edward Dennis Jones, Tyler.
Igo, ca.1.

ROS'l'J<JR

lil

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Frank Anthony
Kingsbury, ·Charles Nelson, P. M.
Barlou, Lewis Forest
Kingsbury, John Parker
Hurg, Robert
Lagerson, Frederick William
Hoyd, Charles
Leiter, Alexander, Jr., P. M.
IJnvison, Lewis Albert
Leiter, AlexandPr, Sr., P. M.
IJrynan, Angus ,James
Lewis, James Knox Polk, P. M.
}o;ldridge, Millard Filmore
Libe1 Bert Ray
1''orschler, Bert William
Merritt, Harry Walter
Oeorge, Charles Grant
Montgomery, James Logan
George, Charles Whittinirton
Moon, James Looman
<leorge, James Whittington, P. M. Moore, Joseph
Gilbert, Thomas Martin
Nealy, Clarence
Gill, James William
·Peterson, Nelson James
Hammons, William Bert
Reid, John Stephen
Hammons, William Joshua
Richter, Charles Herman
Hanson, Victor Leslie
Smith, George William
Higgins, Henry Everett
Smith, Henry Isaac
Higgins, James Blan.c hard
Simmons, John Francis
.Tones, Edward Dennis, P. M.
Thompson, Edwa1·d George
J on.es, Robert, P. M.
Voss, Carl George
.Tones, Thaddius Alonzo, Sr., P. M. Wilder, Francis Marion A.
Kingsbury, Albert Nelson, P. M.
Williams, Harry Eliotte
Kingsbury, Charles Barnes
Wood1111, Charles Dillon
-46
DIED:

Ballou, Edward Lull

Jones, Thadius Alonzo, Sr.

FIDELITY LODGE, No. 120.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first 'rhursday in each month.
149 Eddy Street.
OFFICERS:

. \ braham Jacobs, Master,
316 Battery Street.
J r.slma Harry Bloom, Sen. Ward.,
Benjamin Kraus, Jun. U' ard.,
J oseph David A~r.ains, Treas.,
Frederick Barry, Secretary,
112 Market Street.

Sholom Silverstone, Sen. Deacon,
Victor Aaron, Junior Deacon,
Alfred Elias Hofman, Marshal,
Herman Moses Wallenstein, Steward,
Mitchel J oseph Myers, Tyler.

172

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Aaron, Leopold
Bier, Hypolite
.\aron, Victor
Bier, Joseph Edward
Abraham, Max
Bloch, Abraham Isaac
Abrahams, Newton Abe
Bloch, Henry Maier
Abrahm, Samuel
Bloch, Herbert. Isaac
Abrahm, Ben
Bloch, Loui&
Abrahm, Henry
Block, Ha:r ry
Abrams, Augustus David
Block, Leo
Abrams, Henry Moses
Block, Roy, P. M.
Abrams, Joseph David, P. M.
Bloom, David Casper
Ar\IC'r , Albert Stanley
Bloom, Joshua Harry
Albro, John Philo, P. M.
Bluhm, George Irving
Alexander, Michael Sanford
Blumenthal, Leo
Allan, Clar~nce Elton
· Bornstein, Morris Bello
Allenberg, Charles
Bouquet, Joseph Anton
Anina, .Tuan
Bowes, William Emette
Armer, Anrll'cw Milton, P . M.
Brandt, Maurice
Armer, Benjamin, P. M.
Brenner, Gustave, P. M.
Armer, Joseph Louis, P. M.
Breyer, Joseph Leopold
Armuth, Alfred Samuel
Brock, Irving
Aronson, Solomon
Brod, Amie! Henry
Arzner, Lonie Adolph
Brown, Abraham Lincoln
Bar.hma.n, Arthur
Brown, Bernard Charles
Bachman, Lawrence
Brcwn, Isidor Irwing
Baker, Samuel
Brown, Morris
Ballin, Maurice
Brown, Nathan
Barnett, Abraham Thomas, P. M.
Brownstein, Julius
Barry, Arthur Edward
Bugbee, Maxwell Greene
Barry, Frederick
Cahen, Adolf
Baruch, Frederick
Cahn, Julius I.
Bauer, Moses
Cahn, Nathan A.
Bauer,. Samuel
Castillo, Joseph Luis
Baumann, Sigmnnd
Cedl, John
Beck, John Alex.
Classen, Adolph F. A.
Behm, Emanuel
Clingman, George Evans, P. M.
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Coblentz, Jules
Berg, Sigmund Fred
Coburn, Martin Van Buren
Bernhard, Samuel Taylor
Cohn, Aoolph
Betnstein, Samuel
Cohn, Gabriel
Bei-nstein, Sylvan Louis
Cohn, Gerson
Bettman, Jerome Samuel .Toseph
Cohn, Newman
Bibbero, Herbert Spencer
Cohn, Ralph Lee
Bienenfeld, Bernard
Cohn, Robert David
Bier, Charle11 Sigmund
Cohn, Samuel Francis

Oobn, Theodore, P. M.
Oolt.on, I,ouis Arthur
!looper, Leopold
U111low, Leopold
I)11bm, Richard Oscar
l>annenbaum,- Arthur Joseph
l>annenbaum, Samuel
l>nnnenbaum, Sidney Ray
l>a vidson, Isidor Pete;
l>nvis, Alex. Harold
Davis, Mosea
Davis, Sylvan Dubie
Dny, Robert, P. M.
l>e Wolfe, Chapman
Dietrich, Benj. Johann
Dinkelspiel, .Joseph Samuel
Dinkelspiel, Samuel, P. M.
Mhrman, Alexis Leon
l•;isenbach, Julian
Jo:isenberg, Eugene
giBenberg, Ignacz N.
Eisenstein, Charles
F.:isner, Milton Sidney, P. M.
B!berg, Abraham
!•)Iberg, Isadore
]~Iberg, Solomon
l~lkus, Albert Israel
Ellis, George Wentworth
Ellis, James Michael, P. M.
Elli~, Milton Hyman
Emanuel, Joseph Lewis
Emmerling, John
Englander, Henry Max
Eppinger, Josua
Fabian, Frank William
Falk, Camil Samson
Falkenstein, Monroe Henry
Feldenheimer, Alex.
Fenster, Isidore
Fetherstonhaugh, Frank C.
Fisher, Oscar
Flamm, Gustave
Flatow, Philip
Fleischman, Herman Franc
Fleischman, Mathias Reuben

Fletcher, David Maass
Florintine, George Julius
Fogel, Emanuel
Fogel, George
Foley, Frederick William
:!<'rank, Herbert Louis
Frank, Ludwig
Frank, Manuel S. Houston
Frank, Morris Emanuel
Frankel, Bernard Emil
Frankel, Herman
Frankenberg, Joseph
Fanl1hauser, Albert Julius
Freed, Aleas
Freidenrich, David
Friedlander, Louis
Friedman, Max
l!'riedmann, Lazar
Friedmann, Samuel
Frohman, Henry
Fulda, Edward
Gabriel, Ju lius
Galland, Barney Beau
Galland, Edward Ralph
Gambitz, Lee Robert
Gerson, lsaac
Getleson, Harry
Getz, Jules Jacob
Getz, Louis
Ginsberg, Frank Isadore
Goldberg, Adolph
Goldberg, Harry Monte:fl.ore
Goldenberg, Joseph
Goldinger, Harry
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
Goldsmith, Edmund Mark
Goldsmith, Mark
Goldsmith, Samuel Edgar
Goodheart, Clarence Isaac
Goodfriend, Isidore
Goodman, Eclwarcl Abraham
Goodman, Isadore
Goodman, Leo Lester
Gosliner, Herbert Julius
Gradwohl, David

173

174
Graf, Victor Loewy
Greenebaum, Joseph Leon
Gruhn, Joseph Messing
Guggenhime, David Joseph
Hardman, Morris
Harris, Morris Markham
Harris, Neal
Hart, Mortin Edward
Hartzberg, John Maurice
Haub, Charles Conrad
Hausman, Louis
Heineman, Irving Scott
Heller, Emanuel Siegfried
Herrschcr, Joseph
Hertzman, Leo
Hertzman, Sigmund
Heyman, Gustave
Heyman, Julius
Heyman, Oscar
Hirsch, Barnard Joseph
Hocbheimer, Monroe
Hoffman, Lawrence Haroli!
Hoffman, Melville Gustave
Hoffman, William Josepli
Hofman, Alfred Elias
Honigsberger, Leon
Hufschmidt, Louis
Hummel, Math~w George
Hyman, Abe
Hyman, Charles Shepard
Isaacs, Abraham
Icttelheimer, Samuel
Isaacs, David
Isaacs, Joshua Davis
Jacobi, Joseph Maier
Jacobovics, Philipp, P. M.
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Alfred B.
Jacobs, Alfred Henry
Jacobs, Charles Sodark
Jacobs, Hyme
Jacobs, Isiuor
Jacobs, Lester Henry
Jacobs, Louis Clive
Jacobs, Samuel Nicholas

ROSTER
Jacobs, ThPodore Henry
Jaeger, Frederick Charles
Jellinek, Emil Otto
Joseph, Isaac Charles
Joseph, Joseph
Juda, Leon
Juda, Morria
.Juda, Simon Felix
Kahn, Aaron
Kahn, Fred.irick
· Kahn, Sol
Kammerer, George
Kanter, John
Kapstein, Simon
Katten, Simon
Katz, Bert
Keiner, Herman
Kierski, Samuel
Klinger, William Mark
Koehncke, Christian Henry
Kohlberg, Albert Monroe
Kohlberg; Alfred
Kohlberg, Eugene Lincoln
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig
Korn, Albert
Korn, EugAne
Kraus, Benjamin
Krobitsscb, Rudolph William
Kugber, Elbert Jay
Kutner, Abraham Lincoln
Kutz, Jesse Warde
Lachman, Adolph Joseph
Lachman, Albert
Lachman, Henry
Lafee, Marcus
Lansburgh, Simon Lazarus
Lapidaire, Harry
Latz, Benjamin
Lederer, Gustave
Lederer, HP.rman
Lehouse, Louis Gustave
Leibold, Jacob George, P. M.
Leszynsky, Leon
Levin, Isidor
Levison, Charles Gabriel

ROSTEH.
f,cvy, Charles
J,evy, Euger,e Walter
J,evy, Henry, P. M.
J,e,·y, Henrv
f,evy, Herbert
Levy, Isaac Kaufman
Levy, Isido•·e Nathan, P. M.
Levy, Jaclt Morris
Levy, Jesse Herman
T.evy, Jesse Joseph
Levy, Lambert
J,evy, Louis
Levy, Meyer Solomon
Levy, Moses Louis
Levy, Morris Harris
T,evy, Nyman
Levy, Philip
Levy, Sidney
Lewald, Eugene Charles
Lewin, Arthur
Lewis, Emanuel
J,cwis. Willi~m
Lezinsky, Ferdinand Lesser
Lich tenstein, .Joy
T,ichtig, .Jacob Samuel
Liederman, Benjamin
Lipman, Louis
Loeb, CharlPs Gerson
Loewenstein, Maurice Frank.
Loewy, Edmund
Louisson, E<lwal'd Baum
Lowenstein, Bernard
Lowenstein, Samuel
Mack, Simon
Macy, William Hardin
Manheim, Henry Simon, P. M.
Manheim, Paul Bernard
Marcus, Louis Ferdinan<I
Marks, Mannheim
Marks, Samuel Morris
Marks, William
Marx, Me~".i)~e
Mauser, Henry
Mayer, Henry
Mayer, Max

Mayer, Morris
Mayer, Nate
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Mayer, Solomon Jul'iud
McCray, Charles Carroll
McDevitt, Daniel
Mendelsohn, Morris P .
Merzbach, Felix Her:r.an
Metzner, John
Meyer, Harry
Meyer, Percy Jasper
Meyer, Samuel O.
Mierson, James Augustus
Miller, Isaac
Moise, Philip Henry
Morgenstern, Louis Adolph
Munter, Leo
Musso, John
Myers, George Henry
Myers, Isador Bernard
Myers, Leland Sanford
Myers, Louis
Myers, Mitchel Joseph
Myers, Robert
Nathan, Bernard Israel
Nathan, llerman
Nathan, Milton Aronson
Neustadter, Louis William
Neustadter, Newton Henry
Newbauer, George Stephen
Newhouse, Hugo David
Newhouse, William Daniel
Newman, Edwin S.
·Newman, George
Newman, Marion
Nieto, Jacob, P. M.
Ottenheimer, Henry Joseph
Ottenheime1' Martin Carrie
Ottenheimer, Sigmund William
Pauson, Charles Arthur
Pauson, Jacob William
Pearlstein, Charles Sol.
·Piexotto, Edgar Davis
Plaut, Charles
Polk, Samuel Jacob

175

li6

Pollitz, Edward
Price, A bra ham Robert
Price, Harry Isador
Priester, Joseph
Raas, Andre
Radius, Walter Albrecht, P. M.
Rapheld, Maurice Lehman
Redlick, Abraham Lincoln
Reinheimer, Isidor
Reyman, Harold Cleveland
Rhine, Albert Aaron
Rhine, Elias
Rich, Alfretl J 0:1eph
Richards, Theodore
R.ittigstein, Jacob Meyer
Roberts, Andrew Wellington
Robitscher, Earl Moses
Rosenbaum, Albert Sidney
Rosenbaum, Samuel Moses
Rosenberg, Melvipe
Rosenberg, Melville Benjamin
Rosenblum, Samuel
Rosener, Charles Samuel
Rosenthal, Joseph
Roi:entha1, Marcus
Ross, Bernard
Roth, Maximilian
Rothbach, Benjamin
Rothchild, Herbert Lionel
Rothchild, Samuel
Rothschild, Charles
Rothschild, John
Ruff, Daniel
Sahlein, Moses
Salfield, David
Samter, Marks
Samter, Samuel Marks
Sapiro, Aaron Leland
Sapiro, Philip Herman
Savannah, Michael
Scharlach, Edmund Abraham
Schirmer, Frederick August F.
Schlessinger, Charles, P. M.
Schmidt, Maurie:e
Schmulian, Alfred

ROSTER

ROSTER
Schnaittacher, Sylvain
Schneider, Morris Nathan
Schoenfeld, David Mfobel
Schoenfeld, Jacob
Schoenfeld, Leo
Schussler, Henry
Schutz, Jacob Julius
Schwabacher, Louis Abraham
Schwarz, Charles
Schwarzschild, Julius
Schweitzer, Morris
Seeligsohn, Selig Max
Selig, Philip
Sichel, Henry
Sideman, Morris
Sideman, Morris Jacob
Siebenhauer, Lester
Siegel, .Tulius
Silverberg, Joseph S.
Silverman, .Toseph
Silverman, Morit.z
Silverman, Oscar
Silverstone, Emanuel
Silverstone, Milton Solomon
Silverstone, Sholom
Simon, Charl~s .Jacob
Simon, Martin Ephraim
Simon, Siegfried
Soboslay, Julius
Solomon, Abraham
Solomon, Herbert Adolph
Solomons, Lucius Lawrence, P. M.
Sommer, Max
Speier, Godel
Spiegl, Louis Martin
Spitz, Jacob
Stark, Edward Joseph
Steams, Henry Otis
Steinman, Adolph John
Stenge, Harry
Stern, Henry
Stettheimer, Walter Walter
Stirewalt, Henry Walter
Stone, Benjamin Lester, P. M
Stone, Leon Daniel

177

Wasserman, Edwin Adams, P. M.
Waterman, Louis Philip
1tra11burger, Isaac, P. M.
Wedel, John Michael
ltraus, Louis
Weil, Leo
llra11s, Sylvan
Weinshenk, Charles
It raues, Max Nessel
Weinstein, Morris
Htreeten, James Morgan
Weissbein, Jacob
tlu~1klnd, Sylvan H.
Weissbein, Joseph
h1Nman, Henry
Welisch, Walter T.
lwlft, Dea1! Richmond
Wertheimer, Aubrey Robert
T"11\ch, .John Vincent
1
Weyl, Bernardo
rhorner, 'f1eodore
Wheeler, Charles Stutson
Trachman, Henry Jacques
Willard, Maurice
•rricet, Frauk
Winter, John Frederick
Trlest, Martin
Wise, Julius
lTlman, Vidor Richmond
Wise, Otto Irving
ITnna, Harry
Wise, Walhice Alex., P. M.
Vnn Noorden, Theodore
Wolf, Jacob William
Voorsanger, Abraham Wolf
Wolf, Julius Levy
Voorsanger, Leon Morris
WC1lf, Morris Peter
Voorsanger, Solomon
Wolff, William
Voorsanger, William Casper
Zel!erbach, Jacob Charle!
Wallenstein, Herman Moses
Zemansky, Joshua Henry
Waller, Julian Lloyd
Zentner, Julius
Walsh, Richard
Zuckerman, Adolph
Witlter, Sanford Fredric
-499
Wascerwi.tz, Morris Herman, P. M.

llone, Marcus L.

Burns, Thomas Patrick
~~instein, Daniel

WI'fHDRA WN:
Manheim, Gustave Adolph
Roth, Herbert Gabriel

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Smith, Joseph
Metzger, Charles

Davis, Phillip
Koenig, Ferdinand
1,evy, Isaac
l,oewe, Joseph Maurice

12

DIED:
Morris, Theodore
Sachs, Lippmann
Straus, Moses
Tommereg, Angus Emil
Wigmore, James

ROSTER

ROSTER

li8

ALAMO LODGE, No.

122.

Walnut Cree,k, Contra Costa C1ounty.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Theodore Harold Hook, Master,
Walnut Creek, Cal.
Joseph Edward Lawreuce, Sen. W.,
Egbert B. Read, Junior Wardm,
Claud Reynor Leech, Treasv.rer,
Louis Lazard Lehmann, Secretary,
Walnut Creek, Cal.

Abrott, John
Anderson, Eugene Blyt.be
Anderson, Robert Lawrenee
Andreason, Rasmussen
Baldwin, Nathan Ira
Bartola, D. John
Biggs, Walter Hicks, P. M.
Bocth, Cecil James, P. M.
Booth, Robert Frederick
Brooks, Frederick Elmont
Burpee, Winfield Scott
Chaboya, Benjamin
Clark, Albert Eldon, P. M.
Close, Clarence William
Compton, Peter Wood
Cutting, Theo. Obijah
Daley, Charles E.
Daley, Herbert Hiram
Daley, .James E.
Daley, James Marion, P. M
Daley, Merle Leroy
Daley, Oral Isaac
Ford, Thomas James
Foster, Rollin Nelson
Gamble, Samuel
Goold, Charles Gardnc,r
Hall, Ward
Harison, Ralph
Harlan·, Joel A.

Cecil James Booth, Chaplain,
Oscar Olsson, Senior Deacon,
Frederick Elmont Brooks, J. Deac.,
Albert Eldon Clark, Marshal,
Winfield Scott Burpee, Steward,
Lewis Irvin Starks, Steward,
Frank Thomson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Hipple, George Washington
Hook, Chester
Hook, Cyril Eandolph
Hook, James S.
Hook, Theo. Harrold, P. M.
Hook, Vincent
Hough, William Henry, P. M .
Lawrende, Frederick
Lawrence, Joseph Eilwar<l
Leech, Claud Reynor
Lehmann, Louis Lazard
McCullough, Daniel
McPherson, Robert E.
Meese, George Oliver
Meese, William Gladstone
Olson, Frederick Oscar
Ormsby, Alfred Symour
Oswell, George McCamby
Palmer, Eliphalet Charles
Palmer, Louis R.
Read, Egbert B.
Reis, William Betts, P. M.
Scholtz, Ernest
Sharp, Cordon, P. M.
Sherburne, John O.
Sherburne, Louis Flanders, P . :M.
Silveira, Joseph L.
Simas, John
Simpson, Michael Lewis

llmlth, Duncan Lewellen
~Jmlth, Georges Jay
Spencer, Harry Fremont, P. M.
8poncer, Raymond
l!tow, JRmes Monroe
Thompson, Frank
Watt, Frederick William

179

Westcott, George M.
Williams, Arthur
Williams, John
Witten, Charles Lincoln·
Wrester, Alfred Mercer
Wrester, Edward Calvin

SOTOYOME LODGE, No.

-71

123.

Healdsl;lurg, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFl:'ICERS:

J ihn Hodgson Wilson, Master,

Charles Wilfred Bourne, Chaplain,
11 caldsburg, Cal., R. D. No. 1.
Eli Bush, Senior Deacon,
f<:clward Joseph Hyman, Sen. Ward., Earl Charles Frampton, Jun. Deac.,
l•:clwin Davis Thompson, Jun. W., Harvey Chester Frost, Marshal,
l\l a tthias Rabbe, Treasurer,
Frank Lyman Robinson, Steward,
William W ashington Ferguson, Sec., Conway Allen Hall, Steward,
I I ealdsbnrg, Cal.
Zemira Doane ickerson, Tyler.

Aclams, Asa C.
Alexander, George Cyrus
Allenrlen, Arthur
Allenden, William Henry
Anclrews, George Benjamin
Baer, Reuben Edward
Baker, Guy Earlcourt
Barnes, Benj. Harrison
Barnes, William Henry, P . M
Beeson , Edward Ives
Bidwell, John
Black, Harry Edward
Blackburn, George
Bourne, Charles Wilfred
Brewst er, George Washington
Briggs, Hiram
Brigham, George Henry, Jr.
Brown, James Alonzo
Burr, Frank
Burroughs, Robert Edward
Bush, Eli, P . M.

MEMBERS:
Butterfield, George Henry, P. M.
Cake, Everette Pierce
Coffman, James Trisler
Colfman, Nelson Bradley
Cooke, Frank Willis
Coolidge, Homer Hurlbutt
Cox, Clifford Laurens
Cox, Joseph David
Cox, Nathan Henry, P. M .
Crocker, Harry BoAworth
Cummings, Fred Merritt
Dale, Harvey, P. M.
Eby, Edwin Dayton, l'. M.
Edge, Elton R.
Etter, Wade Hampton
Evans, Clarence Dewane
Ferguson, Paris Jasper
Ferguson, William Wash., P. M.
Fitzgerald, Matthias
Foote, Charles Hardy
Foreman, Lorin

ROSTER

l&O
Frampton, Earl Jharles
Fredson, Charles H(!nry
Frellson, Oscar August
Frost, Harvey Chester, P. M.
Frost, Martin Van B.
Gaddini, Ernest Constantini
Gobbi, Barney
Gobbi, Raymond Allen
Goddard, Daniel Nevada
Goldstein, Joseph A.
Grabner, Ferdinand
Grant, Henry Delano
Gray, Edward Swinton, P. M
Gunn, Geo. Lucius
Gunn, John Henry, P. M.
Hall, Clarence Conway
Hall, Conway Allen
Hall, Lieuallen J., Jr.
Hall, Maitland Grant
Hardy, Jonathan
Henning, John Abraham
Hewett, Clyde Amos
Hicks, Walter Eugene
HolmE>s, WHliam Frank
Hooten, Martin Van B., P. M.
Horton, Samuel
Hnfl'man, Joseph Elmore
Hyman, Edward Joseph
Jacks, Albert Rosco
Jones, Cethil
Joy, William Henry
Kennedy, George Henry, P. M.
Koberg, Louis Carl
Lampson, Augustus
Lorenzini, Dominico
Learn, Abraham Lincoln
Legh, Robert Percy
Lencioni, Henry
Lewis, Calvin McMillin
Litchfield, Oscar J., P. !I.
Long, George Washington
Luther, Arthur Walla<>e
Mack, Frank Fremont
Matt-hews, Charles Wesley, Jr.
Matthews, John Wesley

181

ROSTER
Mayo, Joseph, P. M.
Mccutchan, George Francis
McCutchan, James B.
MeCutchan, William Hugh
McDonnell, Henry
McMinn, Joseph Andrews
Meyer, Harry Herbert
Meyer, Louis
Meyer, Samuel
Mikkelsen, Otto Emil
Miller, Charles Perry
Miller, George William, P. M
Miller, Joseph Hotchkiss
Minetti, Antonio Perelli
Moreland, William Walter
Mothorn, Fernand Clement
Mothorn, Perry Douglass
Murdock, Glen Elbert
Nay, Heber Lewis
Nickerson, Zemira Doane
Norton, Edward Molloy
Osborn, Edward Welch
Parks, Harry Burnard
P:issalacqua, Andrew D.
Patrick, James
Patterson, Clyde Ray
Patterson, J. J.
Papera, Natale
Petersen, Peter Christian
Phillips, Samuel Eilwar•l
Pitts, Frank
Provines, Lewis Bissell
Priest, William Henry
Raabe, Matthias, P. M.
Raymond, Charles Francis
Reniff, Lewis Arnold
Rickman, James Louis
Robinson, Frank Lyman
Roemer, Ernest Edward
Rosenberg, Harold Bush
Rosenberg, Ira Hays
Rosenberg, Melville Milton
Seawell, James Walter
Seawell, James William
Sheriffs, George

Sherrard, Henry Clayton
SUberstein, Jacob
Silberstein, Mervyn David
Skinner, William Henry, P. M.
Sneniksen, Henry Nisson
Spillers, Luther Douglas
Stanley, Charles Lewis
Staton, A very Blythe
Stevens, A. Forrest
Stoffa!, Phillip
Stone, Mack Voorhees
Swisher, James Riley
Temple, William

Thompson, Edwin Davis
Truitt, John Richmond
Walters, Solomon
Wallace, Gltn Allen
Warfield, George. H., P. M.
Weaver, Charles Warren
Whitney, William Benjamin
Wickham, Charles
Wiltermood, William Robert
Wilson, John Hodgsen
Young, John Shaw
Zimmerman, Augusta David

-157

EXPELLED:
Hazen, Frank
DIED:

Alien den, John
11 r1ll, Lieuallen J., Sr.

~osenberg, Julian Floyd
Thompson, John Morrow

TABLE MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 124.
Cherokee, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

I lcnry F ranklin Bader, Master,
R. F. D. No. 4, Oroville, Cal.
E<lgar Calvin Wilson, Sen. Warden,
Elias Harrison J ones, Jun. Warden,
Daniel Claud Morgan, Treasurer,

Joseph Hurst Davis, Secretary,
R. F. D. No. 4, Oroville, Cal.
Richard Henry Jones, S en. Deacon,
John Neuton Hufford, Jun. Deacon,
Francis Marion Cory, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Cory, Francis Marion
Bader, Charles William
Cox, .\lbert Brooks
Bader, Henry Franklin, P. M.
Davis, Joseph Hur~t
l~anks, William Henry
Eackus, Walter Jerome
Blake, William Walter
Edmunds, John
Bloome, John
Fuqua, George Hale
Bollinger, James Sim
Gillispie, William M.
Caldwell, Robert Craddock
Goodday, Isaac Figle
Campbell, James Alex.
Grant, Lincoln Ulysses
Cohn, Levi
Collins, David Harris
Hendrix, Charles Miles
Cornell, Lloyd Power, P. M.
Hendrix, William Sanford

18~

ROSTER

Hobsmier, Charles
Holub, Frank
HUfford, John Newton
,James, Edwin Thomas, P. M.
Janson, Jonas
.ToneF.1, Elias Harris, P. M.
Jones, Richard Henry, P. M.
Jones, William Peter
Johnson, Charles Henry
Jurgensen, Peter Alex.
King, William H.
Kline, Boyd Gervias
Lee, Levi Woodbury
Lott, Charles Fayette, P. M.
Maack, William Edward
Mellon, Wilham James
Monroe, Ami Leroy
Morgan, Daniel Claude
Nesbit, Andrew
Patterson, Jacob
Powers, Robert Sutherland
Medanich, George

ROSTER

Puddy, Henry Corney
Rook, Aaron Columbus
Rowe, James
Ryan, Andrew
Shooke, Jacob Earle
Smith, David Walter
Smith, Walter Boyston
Smith, Willie Ernest
Spangler, Christie Marshall
'l'ate, Frank Raymo.n d
Tegrunde, Herman
Vandegrift, Demas M.
Vandegrift, Samuel A.
Wells, John Elisha
Wells, Michael Walclyer
Whitelaw, John Frederick
Williams, David Herbert.
·Williams, William S.
Wilson, Edgar Calvin
Young, Ralph Chester
DIED:
White, Henry Caldwell

LA FAYETTE LODGE, No.

126.

Sebastopol, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Hugh McCormick, Master,
James Ephriam Williamson, Chap.,
Sebastopol, Cal.
Paul Andrew Dorward, Sen., D.,
William Bradshaw, Sen. Warden,
Fred Forest .Ames, Jun. Deacon,
Chester A:riel Northway, Jun. Ward., Frank Milton Martin, Marshal,
Thomas Garrett Wilton, Treasurer, David Drake Sinclair, Steward,
George Henry Corbin, S ecretary,
William Stillings, Steward,
Sebastopol, Cal.
Charles Edgar Penny, Tyler.

Ames, Fred }'orest
Anderson, John William
Armstrong, George James
Atzeroth, Henry Brugge
Baitey, William Henry

MEMBERS:
Barneburg, Homer Lee
Barneburg, Louis Kingman
Baxter, Samuel Emanuel
Benepe, Wesley Leander
Bernard, Leroy Carl

Ulanchard, David Henry
llurneson, Andrew Jackson
Bnrroughs, Charles, P. M.
Burroughs, David
Burroughs, John
Bradley, Roy Elmer
Chenoweth, James Merrett
Cline, John Wesley
Coats, William Btadshaw
Cody, Math<'w
Compton, Thomas J e:f!erson
Corbin, George Henry
Crabtree, Albert Henry
Crawford, Jesse B.
Darby, Martin Ern.e st
Davis, Henry Clay
Debnam, Henry Hunt
Dodge, Fred Augu11tus
Dorward, Paul Andrew
Dufrane, Isidore
Dufrane, Vital
F.spey, George Moultrie
F.spey, Sydney, P. M.
F11irman, William Judson
F'itzsimmons, Miron Ray
'Fleming, George Lewis
Forsyth, George William
Finnell, Albertus Eve'rmont, P. M.
Fyfe, Edwin Stanton
Oarloff, Frederick Theodore
Goldberg, William L ouis
Hall, Albert Judson
Hall, Albert Leroy
Hall, Harl"y Homner
Hambleto'n, Ira Grant
Hill, Charles Nelson
Hoehn, John Henry
Howell,"L. V. Hardenburg, P. M.
Hurlbut, Edwin T. Monroe, P M.
Jacobs, William
Kerr, William James
Kimes, David Mandie
Laton, Alfred Henry, P . M .
Laton, Edward Lee
Libby, Gec;irge Henry

Libby, George Wilfred, P. M.
Loser, John Benjamin
Lyding, Peter Rasmussen
Ma ddocks, Lewis Allen
Mallary, Charles Wesley
Markham, Henry Clay
Martin, Frank Milton, P. M.
Massie, Andrew, Br.,
Mathers, Louis Henry
M cClain, Frank Walter
McCormick, Hugh
Md1 rew, Francis Harrison
McGuire, William Pleasant
M<'Farlane, George
Minet ti, A. G. Perelli
:Monroe, Walter Wavard
Moran, Joseph Clinton, P. M.
Morris, HarTy Bullen, P. M.
Morrison, Hal, P. M.
Mugge, Christian
Newcomb, Harvey Smith
Newcomb, Walter Irving
Nir.hols, Henry Jamea
Northway, Chester Ariel
Oliver, Charles Chester
Osborn, Alex.
Paimer, Francis Warren
Park, William Ensworth, P. M.
Penny, Charles Edgar
Perrier, Charles Reginald
P eterson, August
Phillips, Arthur Stephen
Pierce, Joseph Greenbury
Piezzi, Victor
Proctor, David Clinton
Proctor, David Dickie
Proctor, Walter Lewis
Ragle, Alex.
Riekard, William Goo<lman, P 111.
Robinson, Thomas W.
Rosie, James Reid
Ross, Robert
Sanborn, George Newell
Sawyer, Joseph Franklin
Scheidecker, Albert Frederick

183

ROSTER

184

Shelly, John Calhoun
Sibly, Edward .Franklin
Sinclair, David Drake, P. M.
Snow, Wilbur Worth
Spangler, CyYus Asbury
Stillings, William
Story, James Augustug
Story, Jerome Augustus
Strout, George Allen, P. M.
Sullivan, Asa Isaac
Surrhyne, Robert Henry
Swarts, Ralph· Evens, P. M.
Tennant, Troxel Leroy

ROSTER

Tucker, Henry Arthur
Walker, Joseph Erskine
Watson, Frederick John
Watson, Valentine
Watson, Walter James
Webber, Henry C.
Weeks, Horace Munson
Wilton, Thomas Garratt, P. M.
Williams, Clarence Henry
Williams, John Amos
William, William Walter
Williamson, James Ephriam

-125

WITHDRAWN:
Rhodes, Elbridge L.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Armstrong, George Riley
Roaf, Clarence Edgar
DIED:
*Thompson, James

Estes, Hickman
*Affiliated during the year.

HERMANN LODGE, No.

127.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFIICERS:
Jacob Weiler, Master,
Emil Albin Keumderkel, Sen. Dea.,
120 Eleventh Street.
Martin Meyer, Jun. Deacon,
John Fischer, Senior Warden,
Ludwig Mugele, Steward, •
Hermann F. H. Schmidt, Jun. Ward., George von Staden, Steward,
Diedrich Bernhard Uhte, Treasurer, Hermann Schoene, Tyler.
Richard Sternitzky, Secretary,
201 Charter Oak Ave.
Affolter, Joseph
Ahlers, Henry
Alber, Emil
Albert Carl
Alkalay, Leopold J.

MEMBERS:
Alpers, George
Atzeroth, Edlef
Baader, John
Bachmann, Adolph
Bahrs, George H.

llarth, William H.
laumgartncr, John
llorkh, Gust.av Carl, P. M.
llochtold, Friedrich Chris
ll1•1·r, Adolf
llerger, David
llonttler, John
IUalch, Adolph
Blucher, George Henry
IUunck, Carl Ernst
Iloge, J esper A.
lloge, Phillip
llorgfeldt, William H.
Bornholdt, Henry
l~reusa, Michael A.
llrune, August E.
llruns, Charles H.
Buescher, Wilhelm
Burgin, Gustav
Busse, August, P. M.
Busse, Ludwig
( :111np, William
Carillon, Charles A.
Clairmont, Ralph de, P. M.
Creon, Cesar Charles A.
•)reon, Geo1·ge A.
Denu, Frank
Dickman, Charles A.
Dierks, Theodor
Dohemann, Hermann
F.ggeling, Henry
Bieber, William, P. M.
F.mmrich, Ernst
F.nderlein, Bruno
F.tzold, Fritz
Fink, Conrad
Fischer, John, P. M.
Fritsch, Emil
Gail, Andreas
Gall, Balthes G.
Gebhardt, Charles A. ·A.
Ocilfuss, Henry, P. M.
Cleist, Max
Gercke, Fritz, P. M.
Oereke, William H., P. M.

Gier, Henry
Gier, Theodor
Goecken, Louis H.
Greutart, Henry
Grosse, Alfred B.
Gunther, Gustave C.
. Hackfeld, Hermann
Hage, Henry W.
Hage, Theodore Henry
Hagemann, Charles, Jr.
Hagemann, Fritz, P. M.
Hagemann, Henry F .
Hahn, Charles
Hans,' Robert Gustav
Hamen, Volquart Nicholas
Hatteroth, William
Hechinger, Loui3 C.
Heinstadt, P eter
Heinz, Christopher
Hellberg, Henry
Hennings, Adolf
Hermann, John
Herold, Rudolph, Jr.
Herwig, Emil
Hess, Joseph
Hildebrandt, Charles Henry
Hink, Louis
Hinrichsen, Henry
Hocks, Oscar
Huslage, Herm_ann Arnold
Ickler, Henry
Jacobs, John
.Tonassan, Alfred
Joos, George
Jordan, Ernst C. H.
Kaiser; Fritz
Keil, Gustav
Kiefer, Philipp
Klaassen, Henry
Kleiber, Panl
KlP.vesahl, Ernst P. C.
Koch, Frank
Kohn, Carl F.
Koldenstrodt, F. W.
Koster, August

]&)

186

Kress, Sebastian B.
Krieg, Anton
Krieg, Henry Sebastian
Krome, August
Krumholz, Jacob
Kutsch, George
Lang, Adolph Conrad
Leiss, Carl M.
Lemcke, Otto, P. M.
Lenzen, TheoJor William
Leutholdt, Max
Levy, Louis
Luchsinger, George H.
Mainzer, Julius M.
Marquard, Henry
.Maurer, Leo
Menke, Frederick
Mensing, John H.
Meyer, August F.
Meyer, Henry
Meyer, Martin
Moller, Martin
Muegge, Henry
Mugele, Ludwig
Muller, Louis, P. M.
Muller, Philipp
Munster, John Henry
Neuhaus, Christian H.
Neumarkel, Emil Albin
Nordholz, Frederick J.
Oppel, John V.
Osswald, Ben
Panckow, William V.
Pohl, Friedrich J.
Pompeati, Wilhelm
Pope, John
Quardt, John
Rahtjen, Philipp
Raith, Johannes C.
Rl'hn, Charles
Reichwald, . Paul
Reidt, Johannes
Remensperger, Ulrich
Rohrbach, Joseph Philipp
Rolfs, Ernst

Ruediger, Julius
Rust, Ferdinand
Saling, Theodor
Schaefer, August
Schaefer, Fritz
Schernstein, Karl
Schier, Gustave
Schilling, William F.
Schlichting, Claus H.
Schlichtmann, John
Schmidt, Henry
Schmidt, Hermann F. H.
Schoene, Herman
Schou, Frank M.
Schubert, A. Richard
Schulte, Wilhelm H. G.
Schumacher, Ludwig, P . M.
Schurmann, Frederick William
Schussler, Hermann D. A.
Schutt, Carl
Schwarz, Karl August
Schwesinger, Hermann Geo., P . M.
Simmen, Joan
Sonne, Hermann Theodor
Speckter, Richard
Speidel, Adolph Friedrich
Steinbach, William
Sternitzky, Richard, P. M.
Sternitzky, Robert Reinhold
Struven, John
Struwing, Johann Hermann
Theisen, S. Joseph, P. M .
Trautner, Charles
Tretten, Emil L.
tum Buden, Otto
Uhte, Difldrich Bernardt
Vocke, Henry K.
Volkman, Carl Moritz
von der Mehden, J. Louis, Jr.
Waldenmeier, August
Wannenmacher, Robert
Warnke, William N. W.
Wassmann, Hermann
Weiler, Jakob
Weis, Arthur JI.

187

ROSTER

ROSTER
Westphal, Peter
Wiecking, Henry
Wiese, John
Wiese, John G. H.
Winter, Moritz
Woebcke, John H. C.
Woehrle, Gottlieb
Wohltmann, William
Wolf, Victoi·

Wolters, Frederick William, P. M.
Wolters, George
Wucherer, William ·
.Wurzbach, William
Zeiss, Louis
Zenker, Robert
Zerweck, Ernst
Zinkand, William Charles
-207

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Mueller, Fritz
EXPELLED:
/;immermann, Gustav
DIED:
Fundeling, Julius

VISALIA LODGE, No.

128.

Visalia, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Albert Ellis Brooks, Master,
Jonas Adelmas Allen, Chaplain,
Visalia, Cal.
Maurice H. Rowell, Sen. Deacon,
Simon Levy, Senior Warden,
Russell Townsend, Jun. Deacon,
Fred Good Hamilton, Jun . Ward., H . B. McClure, Marshal,
Lemuel Clayson Hyde, Treasurer,
James Griffin, Steward,
Frederick Samuel Gilbert, Secretary, John Etzenhauser, Steward,
Visalia, Cal.
Milton Allison Sullivan, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Braverman, Max
Adams, Charles Lincoln
Brooks, Albert Ellis
Allen, Jonas Adelmas, P. M.
Bruce, Wallace
Anderson, David Oscar
Carroll, Hubert Cowley
Baker, Edgar E.
Barton, Franklin Frederick, P. H . Chambers, Ludl<>w
Chatten, Richard Jasper
Beal, John Gould
Uhatten, Thomas Alex.
Beales, George Francis
Chrisman, Ira
Becker, Arthur M.
Cochran, Orin L. V.
Belz, Frank Arthur
Cohn, Eugene Alfred
Belz, George Andrew
Combs, James Ennie
Berry, Hugh Rier
Cook, Leslie
Branch, Kenneth Melrose

188

ROSTER
ROSTER

Cox, Edward Theo
Cranston, Floyd Cole
Cross, Oscar Reeves
Crowley, Arthur
Cutler, John
Cutler, Leonard
Deming, Raymond H.
Dresser, Walter Henry
Duckwall, Simon Weaver
Edwards, Duncan M.
Ellis, William Josiah
Elzenhauser, John
Etzenhouser, Arthur Earl
Evans, Homer Richard
}'rankenau, Max
Gannon, James Edwin
Gibson, George Edwin
Gilbert, Frederick Samuel, P. M.
Good, John Enseley
Goldstein, Leon
Graham, Edward McDonald
Gray, Wheaton Andrew, P. M.
Green, Wilber W.
Griffin, James
Grove, Millard Fillmore
Guggen·heim; Leon
Hamilton, Fred G.
Rausch, Charles Henry Joseph
Rausch, Christian
Hawkins, Rufus Morgan
Hayes, Harry T.
Hayes, Timothy
Howard, John William
Humphrey, Wyatt Marion
Hyde, Lemnuel Clason, P. M.
Iseman, Myer E.
Jerusalem, Henry
Johnson, John Sublitt
,Jordan, Arthur Neill
Jordan, John Francis
Jordan, Ray Francis
Judd, Orion Mathias
Kellenberg, Frank Guido
Kelsey, Harlem Waite
Kinkler, Charles Henry

Lamberson, Frank, P. M.
J.Jarkim;, Edward Oliver
Lawless, John Byrd
Levis, Leon
Levinson, Harry
Levy, Nathan
Levy, Simon, P. M.
Lockwood, Alfred Tennyson
Lucier, Loui3
Maddox, Ben Moyers, P. M.
May, Franklin Hicks
May, James Johnson
May, Loyal Alney
McClure, Harry Beaumont, P M.
McFadzean, Daniel, P. M .
Mcswain, Thom>1.s Omar
McVeagh, Edward Erastus
Miller, Ernest Hendricks
Miller Everette LeRoy
Mitchell, Jay E.
Murray, Abram Hunter, Jr., l . M
Newman, Henry, P . M .
Oliver, David Cromwell
Orr, Alfred Randolph
Osborn, Daniel
Osborn, James Orland
Owen, Richard Hugh
Overall, Daniel Griffith
Overall, Orval
Parish, Howard Goin
Parker, George Alvia, P. M .
Parsons, Howard Marshfield
Patterson, Thomas Jefferson
Pease, Edwin R.
Pendola, Beneditto .
Perkins, Darius Enoch, P. M.
Poole, Charles Turner
Porter, Charles Brown
Powell, Leonard B.
Prothero, Jerome
Quinn, Harry
Ralston, Elza Clark
Robertson, Archibald J.
Robertson, James Logan
Rowell, Maurice H.

18\J

'fuohy, John, P. M.
Uhl, Fred
·Waddell, Edwin Hamilton
Walker, Charles Jesse
Wallace, William B., P. M.
Ward, Joseph Clarence, P. M.
Waugh, Jasper Dodridge
Weathers, Grover Lee
Wells, Morgan Jame11
wells, William Reed
Weishar, Augustus
White, Carlos M:.
Whitmore, Charles Abbott
Williams, James Frederick
-142

Bowland, David Hobart
llnwtel, Fred
ll'llligman, Louis
t'lhlft'ert, Irwin A.
tlmith, Ernest Le Roy
tlmlth, George David
lilrnlth, George Depler
!Smith, Milton Wix
Bmith, Seth
Spear, ,Jacob Benjamin
~tee!, Frederick Daniel
Sullivan, Milton A.
Sweet, Adolph David
Thomas, Walter Franklin
Dnvidson, Warren I.

WITHDRAWN:
Dozier, William Gaillard

Clnlhoun, Milo Adam
<lombs, Fielding A.
Couzens, William J.

DIED:
Fudge, Edmund J .
Nuttall, Hassalom
Pettit, Mark Lytton

NICOLAUS LODGE, No.

129.

Wheatland, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Henry Carrington Jasper, Sen. D.,
William Albert Stull, Master,
Thomas Highfield Brewer, Jun. D.,
Arthur W. Foshay, Sen. Warden,
Thomas Harris Absalom, l un. W., James Polk Kesner, Marshal,
Amasa George Oakley, Steward,
Augustus Rieckers, Treasurer,
L. Lincoln Kimerer, Steward,
John Frederick Baun, S ecretary,
Benjamin William Thomas, Tyler.
Wheatland, Cal.
Stephen Douglas Hicks, Chaplain,
Absalom, Thomas Harris
Anderson, George Leander
Atkisson, Albert Alpheus
Atkisson, William Briee
Austin, Edward
Baun, John Frederick, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Baxter, ·willard Morris
Beck, Herman Hanser,
Bennett, Lemuel Jones
Bergman, Nester W.
Beyan, Thomas Edward
Blackford, Price

190

ROSTER

lkiggs, Alfred Ezra
Brewer, Lewis LeRoy
Brewer, Thomas Highfield
Carpenter, Charles William
Click, Daniel
Creps, Bertieil L.
Creps, Roscoe
Cri!ley, William M.
Durst, Jonathan Haynes
Enochs, Eli~ha Franklin
Enochs, Plummer
Foshay, Arthur W.
Frasier, Daniel
Glazier, Frederick
Griffith, Albert Geral'd
Hadley, Albert Alex.
Haile, Henry
Hartley, Joseph Robert
Hedger, Joseph Mason
Hieks, James Martin, P. M.
Hicks, Stephen Douglhs
Huffaker, Anthony
Huffaker, Harry Hays
Hutchinson, Frederick LaF.
Hutchinson, Perkins LaF.
.Tasper, Henry Carrington
Ja~per, William George
Kesner, James Polk, P. M.
Kimerer, L. Lincoln

Landis, James l~rederiek
Lund, Charles Walter
Manwell, Edward Tecumse
McCullough, William Hudson
Mccurry, Lewis Waters
Mccurry, Samuel Sevier
Miller, William Ernest
Moran, John Willia~1
Morrison, Hugh J.
Muck, Francis Henry
Oakley, Amasa Geol'ge, P. M.
Oakley, Charles Wilder
Oyster, William M.
Pinlus, Emil
Purcell, John
Rhmehart, William Rufus
Riechers, Augustus, P. M.
Robson, Andrew Armstead
Roddan, David Ferris
Sowell, Benjamin Frauklin
Sowell, Ernest Elmer
Stoddard, Cyrus
Stratton, George William
Stnll, William Albert, P. M.
Thomas, Benjamin W .
Thomas, Lewis Evans
Uhler, David William
Wilson, Thomas .Tefferson

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Midgley, Frederick W.
Niemeyer, Herman Albert
Sowell, John Amos
DIED:
Grant, Charles Fitch

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No.

Purinton, Henry Osgood

131.

Woodbridge, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Mcon.
OFFICERS:

11' 1•• 1 Crievcs Perrott, Master,
Charles Welch, Sen. Deacon,
I >liver Simon ~ c wman, Sen. Ward., Elbert Allen Covell, Jun. D eacon.,
Everts Freeman Mills, Juii. Ward., Frank Perrott, Marshal,
'. 1110s Amson McClelland, Treas.,
Freeman Benjamin Mills, S teward.
IU11kcly Robert Woods, Secretary, Charles Robert Rutledge, Steward
I', 0. Box 95.
George Dunn McClelland, T yler.
I !l-11ry ·W ilcox Sharp, Chaplain,

-6!J

WITHDRAWN:
Hilliard, Frederick Jesse

HJ]

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
/\ ndcrson, George William, P . M.
Henderson, James Mitchell
Arthur, Samuel Richard, P. M ..
Henclerson, William Woods, r. M .
/\"hley, Frank Henry, P. M.
Hilliard, Samuel Emlin
ll1.1ckman, Theodore Henry, P. M .
Holmes, James William
ltMkwith, Charles Marion
Housken, GPorge
llh1l10ly, .Tames
Housken, George Edward
lloyce, Amos
Hull, James Porter:Beld, P. M.
Huron, William Wilson, P. M
llr~ck, Jacob
llurkett, Thoma~ Robeson, P. M.
jahant, Walter Victor
l !al1lwell, James Thomas
Jefferson, Jacob Price
Onrr, Walter LeGran~
Johnson, William Hort on
I 'nry, Frank Monroe
Keen, Camden Warren, P . M.
()orell, William
Langford, George William, P. M .
llory, John Braly, P . M.
Latta, SP.muel Eikenbarry, P . M.
Oostello, John Franklin
McClelland, Amos Amson, P. M.
McClelland, George Dunn
Cloven, Allen Palmer
l!ovell Elbert Allen, P. M.
McClelland, Harry Charles
Oovell, Geor!l'e Francis
Mcintosh, Thomas Baldwin
Oovell, Wright Thompson
McNoble, George Francisj P . M.
Orump, John Edward
Mills, Claude Ernest
Clulp, James Elmer
Mills, Everts Freeman
Mills, Freeman Benjamin P. M.
l>enehy, Robert Emmett
Myers, Benjamin Sylvest~r Nt>il
l>oVries, Marion
Newman, Oliver Simon
l>oepske, Deidril•h Bernhardt
Newton, Charles Lewis, P. M.
F'reel, Oliver Patterson
Oroves, Hamilton Sho!well
Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Newton, Frank Crawford
lfall, Charlie Louis
.Ogden, Henry Thoma3
Hart, Edward Baker
Pa1·ker, John Straughn
Hemphill, Edward Hendryx

ROSTER

192

Parkinson, George David
Pattee, Walter J.
Perrott, Frank, P. M.
Perrott, Fred Grieves
Ralls, Frank De La
Reed, Jonathan Pierce
Roush, Chester
Rutledge, Charles Robert, P. M.
Rutledge, George
Sharp, Henry Wilcox
Shinn, John Elmer
Smith, Charles Robertson
Sovereign, Seth
Steen, Moses Duncan Alex.

ROSTER

Terry, David Martin
Thompson, John Henry
Towne, Burton Augustus
Tredway, Orvis Wesley Ring
Van Gelder, Morris
Vickerson, John Irving
Wakefield, Edward Harlan, p, M.
Welch, Charles
White, Willis Washington
Wilken3on, Thomas Edgar
Williams, William Henry
Woods, Albert James
Woods, Blakely Robert, P. M.

1,atham, Melanthon Seymour
Laufman, Robert Lee
McKenzie, Donald William
McLeod, Kenneth
McMillan, Alexander Dougald
McMillan, Douglas Alexander
McRorie, Thomas
Mead, Frank Leroy
Morton, William Bennett
Murray, John R., P. M.
Ranker, Ed·Nard Arthur
Robertini, Peter Anthony

193

Standart, Frank James
Stevenson, William Graham
Stover, Charles Franklin
Taylor, James Terrill
Treleaven, William Thomas, P. M.
Trezise, Thomas Henry, P. M
Trubody, Charles Malcolm
Urban, Frederick George L.
Wardlow, Harry Dell
Wardlow, John T .
Wolters, Gustaf Herman
Young, Robert William, P . M.

-42

-85

WITHDRAWN:
Kelley, John Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Hastings, Henry LeRoy
Jones, George Washington

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Abbott, Edward Hiram

DIED:
Fredway, William Henry

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133.
SINCERITY LODGE, No. 132.

.Coulterville, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturclay of or next preceding Full Moon.

Greenville, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
F rank James Standart, Mast er,
Greenville, Cal.
Ha rry Dell Wardlow, Sen. Warden,
Arlie Jesse Drury, Jun. Warden,
J ohn R. Murray, Treasurer,
Robert Augustus Boyden, S ecretary,
Greenville, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Gibson, Charles Lorren
Ament, Ed. Newton
Goebel, Frederick August
Boyden, Robert Augustus, P. M.
Grnnt, Angus Duncan
Boyden, William Price, P. M .
Hargrave, John Arthur
Bunnell, Lucius Abraham
Harland, Henry Linsley
Braden, Louis Archibald
Hepler, Charles Y.
Draney, William Herbert, P. M.
Janney, Edwin Howard .
Droege, Roy William
Kruger, Frank, P. M.
Drury, Arlie Jesse
Langrehr, Henry Christian
Elam, Arthur William

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
McCarthy, Thomas Bernard
Blum, Rudolph Antone
Mutton, Thomas Henry, 'P. M.
Conwell, Frederick H.
Schell, Edwin Herbert
Floto, William Charles
Tyacke, Frederick
Ford, Charles Christopher
Wagner, Daniel, P. M .
Hobron, Samuel Douglas, P. lVt
Wagner, Charles
Kenn ah, John P.
Koenig, Theo. Theron
WITHDRAWN:
MrDowell, John Charles
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Schwartz, Charles Adolph
Downs, Charles William
DIED:
}'erguson, Samuel Benjamin
13

-13

194

ROSTER

ROSTER

VACA VILLE LODGE, No. 134.
Vacaville, Solano County.
State<l Meetings, 1''riday of or next prece.ding Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Eugene Warren Stoddard, Chaplain,
Rudolph Schaefer, Master,
Frank Eugene Dickie, Sen. Deac.,
Vacaville, Cal.
William Claudius Frohm, Sen. W., Humphrey Parin Palmer, Jun. DMc.,
Herbert Franklin Fowler, Jun. W., Frank Herbert Clark, Marshal,
John Thomas Montgomery, Treas., Morris Akerly Buck, Steward,
Walter Hatch Edwards, Secretary, Oscar Melvin McCoy, Steward,
William Matthias Maas, Tyler.
Vacaville, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Dickie, Frank Eugene
Akerly, George Parry
Dobbins, Sterling P., P. M.
Allison, Josiah Everett
Drew, Francis Bernard
Allison, Orestes Herman
Dunn, Henry Clay
Andrews, Edward Clevelnnd
Ellison, Samuel Franklin
Apperson, Victor Virgil
Engstrom, Adolph L.
Arnold, John Monroe, P. M.
Ennor, Harvey Wilford
Arnold, George Allen, P. M.
Eversole, Jamee
Attkisson, Oscar Brice
Edwards, Walter Hatch
Bassett, Alvin Guy
Fisher, Edward
Bassford, Joseph Edward
Fitzgerald, J'ames Thomas
Blum, Jacob, P. M.
Fotheringham, Charles Allen
Brazelton, John Mc.Knight
Fowler, Herbert 1''ranklin
Brown, Homer Grant
Frahm, William Claudius
Buck, Frank Henry
.l!'rame, George
Buck, Frank Herbert
Gates, Robert Campbell
Buck, Fred McClellan
Gates, Thomas T~ee
Buck, William Henry
Gamble, Frank Alex.
Buck, Morris Akerly
Gamble, Stephen Everett
Buckingham, Thomas Hugh
Goodwin, Woodbury McC., P . M.
Bugbee, Harry Taylor
Gray, William Smith
Buhn, Frerlerick William
Hagerty, John James
Chandler, Frederick Brewster
Hartley, Clement Madison
Chandler, Harry Danforth, P . M.
Hartley, Victor Worthington, P. M
Chandler, Walter William
Hathaway, Harry Rivers
Chase, Ernst Samuel
Haworth, Morris Wells
Clark, Frank Herbert, P. M.
Henrikson, Otto
Crystal, Carlton Clark
Hewitt, Trent Loge
Deakin, Eslie Burt
Jenney, Warren C.
Derby, Charles Mason
.Jones, Harry Nathaniel
Derby, Daniel Blanchard

Jones, Robert Hugh
l\lllingsworth, Wiley Smith, P. M.
J\ lllingsworth, Wiley Smith, Jr.
ICowanda, Thomas
t,ancaster, Ralph Edward
L,awrence, William Edward
l,ewis, John A.
l1lndquist, Carl Ludwig
(;01ee, Albert William
l101ee, Charles Henry
(;01ee, Elmer Lyonidas
(,oeee, Fred Asa
l1ong, George Woodson
Maas, William Mitthias
Maclay, Samuel Ralph, P. M.
Manuel, Eli William
Mnrshall, James
Marshall, Lewis Carson
1\1 <~Bride, William Zeph
1\1 ~Coy, Oscar Melvin
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, P M.
l\fcKevitt, Frank Benjamin, Jr.
McMillan, Eclwr.rd Hou•ston
McMillan, Robert Boone
Miller, Meredith Raines
Moffit, Rolla Maxwell
Montgomery, John Thomas, P. M.
Morton, John Charles
Niel, Charles
Noel, William Henry
Pardi, Caesar
Parker, William Boyl!.
Peabody, Ernest Augustus
Peterson, Louis Henry

Palmer, Humphrey Parin
Plimpton, Harlon Mortimer
Powers, George Adelbert
Richardson, Hiram Eugene
Riechers, Charles
Robinson, Chester Gates
Rust, Charles Baldwin
Samuels, George Washington
Schroeder, William Louis
Schaefer, Rudolph
Schaefer, Walter
Sherman, Roger Bates
Smith, Fred Martin
Spear, John Watson
Stadtfeld, Joseph Rose
Stevenson, Andrew Vincent, !" M.
Stevenson, George Maupin
Stevenson, Charles Albert
Stitt, James Warren
Stanford, David
Stoddard, Eugene Warren
Stottlemyer, Emerol Hanford
Strong, William Lafayette
Sullivan, James William
Tate, Horace Phillip
Thurber, Edwin Robinson
'I'riebel, Frank Henry
•rraughton, Francis Thomas
Watson, Henry Melville
Weed, Ulysses Etlgar
Weldon, Clyde Allen
Wilson, Thomas Stanley
Wooden, John Henry
Wooderson, Geo. Frederick, P . M.
-128

WITHDRAWN:
French, Fred Manning
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Condon, Harry Leslie
Eversole, Henry

1!)5

DIED:
Spousler, Alanson Chandler

19(1

ROSTER

ROSTER

VALLEY LODGE, Ne. 135.

PAOFIC LODGE, No. l36.

Linden, San Joaquin Coimty.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next pre.:eding Full Moon:

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
St.ated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
1739 F.illmorl' Street.

OFFICERS:

William Langdon Buckley, Master, Frank A. Creary, Sen. Deacon,
Linden, Cal.
William Harvey Bonham, Jun. D.,
Charles Wayne Thomas, Sen. Wara., John Clark Ryburn, Marshal,
Dave Board, Jun. Ward.,
Andie Lester Bonham, Steward,
Albert Newton Davis, Treasurer, Charles Herman Meyers, Steward,
Charles Norval Harrison, Secty.,
Walter Freeman, Tyler.
Linden, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Harrison, Charles Norval
Alling, Mark Norman
Hopkins, George Marvin
Anderson, John, P. M.
Johnson, Adolph
Board, David
Lewis, Horace Churchill
Bonham, Andie Lester, P. M.
Loker, Victor Manuel
Bonham, William Harvey
Mahl, Godfrey
Brooke, Thomas Jefferson
Buckley, William Langdon, P. M. McCausland, Jamee Audley
Meyer, Charles Herman
Case, Carlton Coolidge, P. M.
Owen, Henry Taylor
Corson, Joseph Morrison, P. M.
Pearson, Seth Allen
Creary, Frank Agnious
Peck, John Loveman, P. M.
Davie, Edward Freeman, P. M.
Perryman,
Charles
Davis, Edgar Lee, P. M.
Peters, John Henry
Davis, Albert Newton
Petzinger, Henry Edward
Day, Thompson Blount
Pope, Sidney Parnell
Day, Gordon Martin
Rich, Arthur Henry
Drace, James Albert
Ryburn, John Clarke
Dyke, Ozra David
Sheets, William Henry
Freeman, Walter
Smith, Arthur
Frost, Haller Conventry, P. M.
Thomas, Charles Wayne, P. M. -40
Glasgow, Wood Irwin
WITHDRAWN:
Ormsby, Elon Arwin
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hancock, Arthur Raymond

197

OFFICERS:

I lcrman Wertsch, Master,
Thomas Anderson, Seii. Deacon,
24 Page Street.
Frank Mueller, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Leonard West, Sen. Warden, Charles Benjamin Bond, Marshal,
11 ugo Hertz, .lu11ior Warden,
Herbert Geo. Wash. Meyerfeld, St.,
Herhert Clay Baird, Steward,
Fred Ludwig Hansen, Treasurer,
James Whitten, Tyler.
( ~corge Louis Darling, Secretary,
226 Sutter Street.
MEMBERS:
Bell, Dickson Gabriel
A <lams, Manson Reid
Adelstein, Samuel
Berg, Alfred
Amenda, J'ohn Emil
Berliner, Charles Adolph
Andersen, Niels
Bernstein, Milton Melville
Anderson, James Wright, P. M.
Bianchini, Louis
Anderson, John
Bien, Joseph
Anderson, Thomas
Biller, John
Anderson, Wellington Joshua
Binge, Theodore C. Daniel
Andresen, Niels Julius
Binner, Theodore
Andrews, Edwin Harold
Birnhack, Benjamin
Andrews, Harry Alta
Bishop, Frank Ellert
'\rnke, Henry Konrad
Blaffer, Louis Albert
Arnold, Louis Edgar
Bloom, Solomon
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Blum, George William
Aachheim, Israel Julius, P. M.
Bolander, Louis Philip
Asher, Maurice
Boley, Daniel
Austin, George Henry
Bond, Charles Benjamin
Babbitt, John Henry
Booth, Frank Edmund
Baccus, Louis Richard
Borchardt, Paul
Baird, Herbert Clay
Borkheim, William Irwin
Ballard, Francis Marion
Bornstein, Robert
Baloun, Joseph Pavlik
Bornstein, Solly
Bankey, Charles
Bosch, Henry, Jr.
Banner, Marcus
Bossert, Howard Clayton
Baskerville, Edwin
Bragg, Robert, Jr.
Bnugh, Colonel Adams
Branderstein, Charles
Beck, Frederick Charles
Brewer, Hendrix Clevelanil
Beck, William Arthur
Brignoli, Nicholas Peter
Beckley, Lawrence Victor
Brisco, Hylton Aubrey

Hl8

Brown, Andrew
Bunzl, Julius
Burger, Fillmore
Burns, Harry Denver
Caley, James Henry Cortf\fln
Cameron, John William
Camp, Mervyn Louis
Caples, John Wallace
Caro, Alex. Hyman
Caro, Jacob
Carrick, James Ross, P. M.
Casner, Mark
Casanova, William
Casselmann, Julius Molter
Castle, Frederick Lawrence
Cavanaugh, James Bernard
Cerf, Arthur
Chamberlin, Gordon Stewart
Church, David Orion
Cinnamond, Lennox
Clark, George Waverley
Clark, Howard Ellsworth
Clark, James William
Cliff, John Clifton·
Clifford, James Benjamin
Cline, Jobe
Coffin, Lincoln Alverton
Cohen, Melville
Cohen, Philip
Cohen, Simon
("ohn, Jacob
Cohn, Louis Meyer
Compton, Louis Francis
Congdon, Joseph Hopkins, Jr.
Cook, Stonewall Jackson
Cooksey, Albert
Cope, James Henry
Cormack, William
Cornehl, Henry
Cousins, Herbert William
Craig, David Calder
Craig, Frank
Craig, Lee Darneal
Crandall, Charles Ellis
Cror.ker, Arthur Jame11

ROSTER

ROSTER
Crocker, Nathan, P. M.
Crouse, John Miles
Crowe, Joseph
Crowley, Timothy Jay
Crozier, Herbert William
Crum, George Washington
Currell, John William
Currie, Robert
Curry, John
Daly, Charles Elmer
Damner, Samuel
D 'Ancona, Alexander Dawson
Dann, Frank Rudolph
Darling, Charles Sherman
Darling, George Louis, P. M.
Davidson, Alexander Hunter
Davidson, George
Davis, Arthur Eugene
Davis, George Eugene
Dean, Wilber Huntington
Delfs, Marcus Alexander
Dettner, Ernest Henry
Dettner, George William
Dettner, Walter Theodore
Dickinson, Robert Francis
Dillon, William A.
Dixon, Frank Albert
Doble, Robert McFarland, P. M.
Dobrin, Samuel Leo
Dodge, Zenas Upham
Donald, William
Dougherty, Hugh
Dove, Louis
Dragomanovich, Spiro S. G.
Dundas, Moubray Robert, P. M.
Dunn, Berry Elder
Dutton, Winslow Dodge
Earle, Henry Halford
· Eaton, William Roberts
Edlin, Juda
Edwards, Henry
Edwards, Meyer Aaron
Edwards, William Harvey, P. M.
Elkus, Eugene Samuel, P. M.
Ems. Frank Tait

Jllltingham, Robert Lynnwood
Elzas, Emanuel
F:pateen, Henry
Flrlcsson, William Leonard
T•islick, William
Everding, James Campbell
Everson, Matthias Andrew
Fairfield, Orlando Weston
Fnlk, Emile Samson
l•'11llon, Alfred
Fee, William Marcus
Ferguson, John
Ficke, Charles Henry
Jl'indlay, Alexander
Finnegan, Matthew
J<'iHrhrnan, Philip
Fleisig, George Lawrence
J<'lcisig, Harry
F'leisig, Frank
Fleming, John William
J<'orrest, William
Fraiberger, Max
Frankel, George
Fraser, Daniel Gray
Fraser, Edwin Joseph
Frazier, Frank Edward
Freudenberg, Gustav Adolph
Fross, Isaac
Furman, Henry Matthew
Galer, John Martin
Onrcia, Frank Francisco
Gardiner, Robert McKay
Garrett, James Hyland
Gauld, James Green
Getz, Solomon, P. M.
Gilbert, John Henry
Gilmour, James
Gla.ss, Samuel
Glucksman, Max E.
Goetze, Frederick William
Goldbaum, David
Goldberg, Louis Raphael ·
Goldsmith, Joseph LeConte
Goldstein, Simon
Good, Robert WiHiamson, P. M.

Goodman, Abraham
Gordon, Benjamin Edwin
Gordon, George
Gough, William George
Grady, James
Graham, Frank Gordon
Grant, William
Graves, Jefferson James
Graves, Walker Coleman, Jr.
Graves, Walker Coleman, P. M.
Gray, Henry
Gray, Walter Scott, P. M.
Green, George Sedwick
Green, Simon
Greenberg, Frank Lui
Gruhn. Victor Jacob
Gr1rnig, Louis Herman
Gunzburger, Benjamin Mitchell
Gunzburger, Emil
Gutman, David
Hagedon, Henry Howard
Hakes, Clinton Devillo
Hale, James William
Hall, George Weldon
Hall, James Joseph
Ham, Charles Herbert
Hamilton, James Thomas, P. M.
Hamilton, Walter William
Hancock, Robert John
TI an sen, Albert Louis
Hansen, Frederick Ludwig, P. M.
Hansen, Frederick Theodore
TTa.nsen, <;ieorge Otto
Hansen, Herman Peter
Hanson, John
Harms, Herbert William
H'!rris, Albert Edward
Harris, Benjamin
Harris, Charles Sigmund
Harris, Clatence Edgar
Harris, Isaiah
Harris, Louis Lehman
Harris, Simon
Hartmanshenn, Edward John
Harvey, Sidney Wilberforce

199

ROSTER

ROSTER

~00

Hathaway, Harry Lee
Hauck, Harry Ernest
Hawton, Frank Lait
Healey, Lauren Everett
Hechheimer, Leopold
Heins, Herman
Heller, Louis Charles
Hemphill, David Abercombie
Hendry, Andrew Murray
Hertz, Hugo
Hess, Cyril
Hillebrandt, Fabian Henry
Hills, Reuben Walmarth
Hilp, Henry, P._ M.
Hinz, August Julius Henry
Hirsch, Henry Samuel
Hobson, Clark
Hoegemann, Edwaru Henry
Hoffman, Abraham
Holdsworth, Charles Henry Ottway
Hollub, Samuel Simon
Hollzer, Harry Aaron
Hollzer, William
Holmes, Alfred Edward
Howard, Frank Harvey
Hoxie, Harvey Hamlin
Rueter, Ernest Claus
Humphrey, George
Hunter, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Hurd, John Byron
Hyman, Henry
Irvine, Alexander
Irvine, Nathaniel
Isaacs, Edward Samuel,
M.
Isaacs, Frank
Isaacs, Michael Henry
Jackson, Charles Edward, P. M.
Jacobson, Charles
Johnson, Alfred
Johnson, Francis Fenelon
Johnson, George Henry
Johnson, George Oliver
Johnson, Henry
Johnstone, Robert Murray
Jones, Alfred

P:

.Jones, Frank Able
.Jones, John Thomas
Jones, Martin, P. M.
.Toost, Fabian Sebastian
Juhl, Jesse Peter ·
Kahman, Richard August
Katz, Mandal
Kaplan, Bernard Michael
Keller, Michael Seligman
Kelley, Michael John
Kellogg, Harold Adelbert
Kelly, Robert Edward
Kennedy, Albert Warren
Kennedy, Thomas
Kent, Thaddeus Benning
Kern, Henry
Kerr, Earl
Kincaid, Isaac Philamson, P. M. ·
Kissel, Isidor
Klein, Charles
Kleinhaupt, Moses
Kluver, Henry
Knighton, David William
Knudsen, Knud Johan
Knudsen, Philip Julius
Knudson, Ingelbright
Kock, William Lincoln
Kramer, Maurice S.
Kriedel, Abraham
Lace, Thomas Joshua
Lachman, Edward
Lachman, Gustave
Lange, Edmund William Richard
Larsen, Lars Christian
Lasky, Michael Charles
Leighton, Elvon Ernscliffe
Lemaitre, Jules
Lenchner, Henry
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewis
Leonard, Edward Francis, P. M.
Lerond, Theodore
Levin, Louil!
Levin, Melville Arnold
Levy, Barnard
Levy,- Louis

lievy, Lucien
litvy, Samuel Wolf
l.twy, William Herman
liezlnsky, George
I 1ncoln, Elijah Whiting
1,lneoln, Robert Lawrence
l,lpman, Abraham
1.1pman, ,Joseph Carroll
l,ippitt, Philip .
l,fppman, George
l,fvingston, Andrew William
l.ochbaum, August Hermann
l.ockwood, Thomas
1.oebner, Edward
l,ufgren, Charles
l.uoman, John
1,oring, .George Arthur
l,ntlwig, John
Lutz, William Edward, P. M.
l.ynch, Chester Thompson
1,ynden, James Henry
l,ynden, John Ross
Macartney, Henry Cuthbert
MacKinnon, Thomas Alexander
Macowsky, Isaac
Macowsky, Jacob
Mndden, Robert Willis, P. M.
Madison, James
Maguire, Thomas Frank
Makins, James Nicholas
Malfanti, Joseph, Jr.
·
Mann, Seth
Manner, Charles Vogt
Marcum, Robert Francis
Maris, William
Marliave, Edward Cornelle
Marshall, Eugene Lee
Martin, James Coleman
Mason, Arthur
Mattson, George Oscar
Mayle, George Dennis
McClure, William
McCray, Fr_a nklin Philander
McDougall, Charles Campbell
McGregor, Archibald Hendersou

201

McKay, John Henry
McLaren, John
McLea, Arthur
McLean, Alexander David
McLean, Malcolm
McLeod, Daniel
McLeod, John Alexander
McNealy, Mark
Mehrken, Peter John
Melin, Charles Gustoff
Melluish, Herbert Stanisland
Melrose, Kenneth
Mendelson, Leon Aaron
Mendelson, Morris Aaron
Mentz, John Henry
Mertens, Max
Meyer, Alfred
Meyer, Martin Solomon
Meyer, Milton
Meyerfeld, Herbert George Wash.
Michaels, Solomon
Milcovich, Martin Louis
Miller, Charles August
Miller, Jesse
Miller, John Fred
Miller, John Rudolph
Miller, Samuel
Miller, Walter
Mohr, Henry
Monasch, David
Monroe, Charles Adams
Moore, Thomas
Morehouse, Chris Columbus
Morgan, Edwin Henderson
Morgan, William
Morris, Edward Hart
Morris, Herman
Morrow, Almond Raleigh, P. M.
Moss, Adolphus Frank
Mowbray, Robert Henry
Mueller, Albert Rudolph
Mueller, Frank
Muench, Albert
Muirhead, Thomas
Mullen, Edwin Thomas

202
Miiller, Otto
Mundt, Francis Augustua
Munroe, Thomas William
Murray, Robett Henderson
Nansen, Peter Nielsen
Nash, William Joseph
Nathan, Paul
Nelsen, Jacob Loining
Nelson, Chester Lawrence
Nevin, John Henry
Newbauer, Herman Wolf
Newman, Ignatius
Newman, Lester
Nicol, Alexander
Nield, John Detlifson
Nodder, William John
Obermeyer, Tons Frederick A.
Odgers, William Henry
Olinsky, Nathan
Ormsby, George Oliver
Fague, Frank Culver
Palmer, Harry
Palmer, John Alexander
Parle, Michael Charles
Parsons, Charles Bird
Peiser, Solomon ( 1)
Peiser, Solomon (2)
Penhallow DeBlois Pearce
Penlington, Thomas, P. M.
Perine, George Mairs, P. G. M.
Petersen, Niels Andrew
Peterson, Charles Edward
Peterson, John Cigord
Peterson, Julius Caesar
Phillips, Louis Albert
Pidwell, Cyril Trevosso
Pippey, Robert Norman
Plato, George Jacob
Plato, Louis
Parnin, George Joachin
Porter, Robert Daniel
Posner, Alva Max
Posner, Max
Price, Ephraim William
Prince, Albert· Edward

ROSTER
Qualman, Frederick Henry
Quinlin, William Giles
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry
Rabling, Charles Albert
Rae, William · ·
Raymond, George Henry
Rea, Louis Edward
Reeves, Sydney· Richard
Reichardt, Otto Henry
Reid, John
R eis, H enry William
Reiss, Lucien
Reis~. Max Bernharcl
Reppey, James Washington, P. M.
Rhine, Samuel
Rhodes, Charles Durell
Rich, Arthur Milton
Richards, Charles West
Rickey, George Willis
Rob bins, Frederick Averill
Roberts, August'us Henry
Roberts, Thomas
Romain, Solomon
Rosenblatt, Arthur Stern
Rosenblatt, Irving Stern
R osenthal, Maurice
Ross, Andrew
Ross, David Adam
Roth, Arthur
Roth, Herm~n
Rylander, George William
Sachs, Edgar David
Samuels, Jacob
Sargent, William
Scally, John Henry
,Schafer, Herman
Schauzer, Philip Joseph
Scheeline, Edwin
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmit, Henry
. Schneider, Joseph
S rhnier, ·Benjamin
Schoenberg, Henry
Schoenfeld, Alexander
Schutte, John Henry

ROSTER
lrhwartz, Adolph ·
ll'hwart z, Morris
tlchwartze, Karl Gustav
lchwerin, Edward
lchwormstecle, Diedrick Wilhelm
8rarey, John Joseph
''•Ilg, Arthur Edwin
tl~Jler, Sunford Elkan
Hurnborg; Nils Hilding
!!\harp, William John
Hhaw, Henry
Hhaw, Lionel Solomon
Mhcideman, Bahr
Hlegfried, Alfred Henry
Hlmon, Bert
Mlmon, Jacob
Simpson, Frederick Ernest H.
Hlack, Edgar Simpson
Smith, Louis John
Mmith, William Isaac
Solley, Albert Adam
l:lolomon, Sigmund
l::!peier, Bernard
Speier, Henry
Speier, Leon
Spencer, James Marshall
Speyer, Walter Morris
Spier, Edward Ellis
Spiro, Michael
Spiro, Michael Elliott
Springer, Elias
Springer, Joseph
Sproston, Frank
Stalder, John Rudolph
Stackpole, Frank Harvey
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
Steinfield, Max
Stern, Moses Milo
Stev1111son, Thomas George
Stich, Benjamin Mitchell
Stidger, Oliver Perry
Stivers, Arthur Gus
Strauss, Michael
Sunrlelius, Severus
Sykes, Thomas Rutledge •.

Taussig, Rudolph Julius
Terry, Joseph Tripp
Thayer, Charles Clayborn
Thompson, Clarence Evan P.
Thompson, Edward Mealing
Thompson, George Forbes
Thompson, Henry
Tonn, Arlolph
Toplitz, Robert Louis
Trask, Jesse Wall
Trivett, Theodore
Troppmann, Charles Martin
'l 'uckey, B.ertram
•ruckey, Harry William
Turner, Waldro Egerton
Turpin, Andrew Walker, P. M.
•rurpin, Frederick Light
Tuttle, John
Ulfelder, William Henry
Urquhart, John Ferguson
Vagts, John David
Van Aredale, John Rutherford
Van Dyke, Samuel Russell
Vogt, Alfred Herman
Von Werthron, Joseph
Waldeyer, Wilhelm
Wallace, John William
Walkington, John Henry
Wankowski, William
Warnock, William Henry
Wasserman, David E. ·
Watterson, George Thompson
Waugheim, Henry
Waugh, Samuel James
Wechter, Abraham
Weil, Alexander William
Weil, Moise
Weisel, Charles
Weisel, George Gustav Henry
Weisel, Oliver Richard
Weiss, Philip
Weisskopf, Samuel
Wendt,. Oscar William.
W ertsch, Herman
West, Ernest Leonarrl

203

204

ROSTER

W eyl, Bertin Alfred
Whitten, James
Wilhelmy, Max
Williams, Hugh Perry
Williams, John W.
Williams, William Stich
Wilson, Frederick Green
Woerner, Frede·r ick William

ROSTER

Wolf, Emanuel Myron
Wolff, Harry Keller
Wood, Benjamin Russell
Wood, George
Wood, Louis
Zemansky, Samuel, P. M.
Zeuner, Edward Henry

-61!

WITHDRAWN;:
Wagner, Theodore
DIED:
Alexander, Joseph
King, Charles James
Baum, Gustus
Levinsky, Mark
Boyd, Colin Marnieol
Michaels, Abraham
Cutting, John Tyler
Penlington, George
Drube, John Gerhard
Rink, Louis
Getz, Marcus
Sussman, Samuel
Harris, Matthew
Taussig, Hugo Alois
Hyman, William Sylvanus
Ward, William Braddon
Young, Arthur Lansing

CROCKETT LODGE, No. 139.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Wednesday in each Month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:
Hugh McBirney, Master,
.
Walter Edward S amm1s,
· S en. D eac.,
322 Twenty-seventh Avenue.
James Wiseman Davies, Jun. Dea~.•
Hugh John Lloyd, Sen. W<Jrden,
Arthur Henry Canaris, Marshdl,
Arthur Brand, Junior Warden,
Percival Guy Johns, Steward
William Marcus Glindemann, Treas., Joseph H. Pennington Stew~rd
Richard Hassard McPherson, Sec., Thomas Rowlands, T;ler.
'
134 Sixteenth Avenue.
Adamsen, David
Adolphson, Gustav Adolph
Alderson, John .Atkinson
Alpers, Claus
Alpers, John
Andersen, Martin

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Aren
Anderson, Charles Oscar
Atthowe, William Charles
· Anfindsen, Bernhart
Baetje, John Peter
Bailey, Lewis Charles

Cattermole, Charles Henry
llnnnick, Albert John
Cattermole, John Luder Wilhelm
ltllrthold, Albert Theodore
lh.rtlett, Edward Phelps
Cavill, Sydney St. LawreMe
llnrton, Robert George
Cellarius, Charles, P. M.
Cellarius, Frederick August
lh1aoh, Harry
Chambers, George William
ll1a1ton, Jeremiah Brannan
Christ, William John
ll1ahtel, George William
ll1a'ker, Adolph Cornelius
Christiansen, Jacob
11.. 1·1. Thomas Walter
Ciprico, Edmund Samuel, P. M.
ll11hrmann, Joseph
Clemens, George
Clute, Alva Baker
1t1nelect, Emil
Connelly, James Anthony
llerendes, Carl Joseph
Conroy, George Stephen
ll11rg, Adolph
Corkill, Joseph Albert
ll11rtelson, Peder Beier
Court, John Pearce, P. M.
lllvins, Walter Thomas
Cox, Richard
ltlnekledge, Charles Duffey
lllacklock, Douglas Robert
Crawford, George Dodridge
llh\lne, Robert James
Crease, Frank Hazen
Daepfner, Richard Frederick
llloden, Paul Ralph
Dallamore, George Charles .
ltlumenthal, Albert
llot1sen, Hans Christian Broderson Davies, James Wiseman
Davis, Frank Valentine
Borek, Leopold Julius
ltrady, Thomas Washington
Debus, Ernest
Dennis, Robert Walter
ltrand, Arthur
Dietz, Frank Edwin
llrandemann, Carsten Otto
Brasch, Samuel Lewis
Dippel, Henry
Downey, Thomas Harold
llrnsting, Constantine Waldemar
Dudley, Clark DeWitt
ltraun, George
Dunn, James Henry
Broman, Albert
Edelmann, Leonhardt Charles
llruce, William
Ethier, Louis Napoleon
Brugge, Edward Gustav
llrunswig, Jes. Oscar Ludwig, P. M. Evans, David John
Faber, Johan Frederick
ltruse, Bernhard Frederick
Fee, Harry Ring
llrnse, Frederiek
llnrkhardt, Edward George Albinos Feldermann, John Diedrich
Felker, Luther
Burnett, Richard James
Fick, Nicholas
Burnham, George Ellsworth
ltutt, Peter William·
Fisher, Charles Morris
Fischer, Jacob
Buttner, Frederick Harrold
Flathmann, Claus
Cameron, Howard McDougall
<lanaris, Arthur Henry
Flathmann, John Henry Martin
Flathmann, William Claus
<'nntlon, Philip Edward
•'arroll, Charles Carrollton
Fluegel, Emil Frederick Christian
Frahm, George Edwin
<!astagna, Frank
Frank, Arthur Henry
llastle, James Blair

205

206.

Frankenberg, Milton Julius .
Friedrichs, .Claus Detlef Hinrich
Frisken, James
Furey, Walls McClure
Gardiner, Arthur McKenzie
Geauque, George Wash. 1 P. M.
Gerdau, Walter Julius
Glahn, Rother
Glindemann, William Markus
Goddard, Joseph
Goldsmith. Albert Simon
Grant, John
Gray, John
Grieb, Henry Tobias
Gries, Frederick August
Grupe, Henry Gilmore
Gutte, Henry William
Haber, Charles Anthony
Hagerup, Charles S. C. A.
Hanni, Ernest
Hanselman, Andrew
Hansen, Claus Christian
Hansen, Felix Amandus Dunker
Hansmann, Frederick
Hanson, Per Alfred
Harder, Peter
Harder, Walter Gustave
Harrison, Frank Cassius
Hart, George Edward
Hasshagen, Carl Theo.
Haub, Louis
Hayes, Henry Lawrence
Heins. Adolph Friederich
Heise, John Diedrich
Rinner, Paul
Hoadley, Milo
Hoflich, Max
Hofmann, Isaac L.
Hohmann, August Henry
Holloway, Charles Marion
Holmes, Joseph Earl
Holton, Charles Roscoe
Horstmeyer, Frederick
Huber, Adolph
Huber, Herman

ROSTER
·Hughes, David
Hughes, John Hugh
Hughes, Richard John
Humbert, William Edwaru
Hunt, Charles William
Ingram, Robert
Jackson, Charles
.facobsen, Ha.Ivor Julius Thorvald
Jessen, Niels
Johns, Percival Guy
Johnson, Axel Fridolf
Johnson, Frederick
Johnston, .John Cairns
Jones, Edward N.
Jones, Humphrey Llewelyn
Jungblut, Otto August
Kahn, William, P. M.
Keck, Frederick Charles
Kirkwood, Alexander Macfarlane
Kleinhaus, Louis
Knerr, Claire Frank
Knox, Arthur Wallace
Knust, Henry
Koeberer, Theophilus Carl
Koenemann, John
Kummerlander, Fred 'k August .
Laughton, James
Leary, Thomas Cox
Lehrke, Albert Wendell
Lehrke, Gustav Frederick
Leighton, Frederick William
Lester, Henry Charles
Lewis, John Walter
Lippert, Leonard B.
Lippold, Edward
Lizee, Napoleon
Lloyd, Hugh John
Lowe, John HaII
Lowe, William George
Lutz, William Henry
Maass, Henry William, P. M.
MacKillop, Archibald
Mann, Gustav
McArron, Chas. William Drummond
McBirney, Hugh

20i
~I

1 ;orkell, James Alexander
Paulsen, Os~ar Fl'.ancis
M, 1;luskey, John
Paulsen, Reinhold Johan
~I 11<:readie, Abraham Peter
Peach, Charles Frederick
M1·~'urlan, Frederick Knight Perry
Peach, Theodore Frederick Charles
Pein, George Heinrich
1\1 . l,aren, William Merville
·Pein, John Henry
M~ l,aughlin, Armour
Perle, cµ,arles William Frederick
M" Neill, William Webster
Perle, Johan Friedrich
M" Pherson, Richard Hassard
Petersen, Christian Herman Fred 'k
Mehrtens, Richard
Meinhard, Theo. Henry Jacob Louis Petersen, Hans Peter
Petersen, Jens Peter .
Melsel, Herman Joseph
Peterson, Charles
Mengel, Otto Henry
Peterson, Edward Peter
Mergen, Mathew Bernard
Peterson, Gustave
M11hler, Hermann
Peterson, Henry Clarence
Mt.'yer, Julius
Peyser, Harry Michael
Meyers, Robert. Charles, P. M.
Plagemann, Frederick Peter
MIller, Frederick l!ermann Carl
Pockwitz, Adolph Augustus
Mohr, Ernest August
Pockwitz, Leopold
Moore, George Alexander
Pramme, Henry, Jr.
Morris, George Washington
Preddey, Sydney Lawson
Moulton, George Henry, P. M.
Price, Evan John
Mugleston, Albert
Preston, Walton
Muller, Heinrich
Rackerby, John James
Muller, Peter Henry
Rathjens, Peter Ferdinand
~I 11 llins, Fred James
Read, George
Murken, Albert Henry
Rehmann, Charles William
Murrey, Duncan Stuart
Reid, James Bissic
Nnclibar, Fre<lerick William
Renner, Jean
Newell, James Thomas
Richardson, Nicholas Joseph
Newhoff, Harry; P. M.
Riechers, John Henry
Nichols, Thomas Henry
Riemer, Rudolph Wilhelm Herman
Norby, John Ans~arins
Righetti, Henry A.
Nordman, Harry
Rithmoeller, Henry
\ ordman, Berthold
Roberts, Joshua Benjamin, P. M.
North, John Gunder
Robinson, Henry Goland
0 'Brien, William Thomas
Robinson, Oscar Maynard
Offerman, Claus Henry
1)lsen, Lars Emil
Roeder, William Frederick
Roesch, Louie
Olsen, Olaf
J>ulmer, Albert
Roes, Harry Bellsland
Palmer, Edward
Rowlands, Thomas, P. M.
Pankow, Hermann
Rueben, John Bernard
Parker, Thomas Beede
Rush, William Henry
Russell, Samuel Gray
l'ntridge, Clifton Clark
f'n t.terson, John Charles
Sachau, August Henry Theodore

208

ROSTJ<JR

ROSTER

Salter, Frederick Whitcomb
Sammis, Harold De Witt
Sammis, Walter Edward
Schlesinger, Charles
Schloen, William John
'1~hmid, John
Schmidt, Hermann Christian
Schmidt, John Hinrich
Schmidt, Louis
Schneider, William
Schomer, George
Schomer, George Henry
Schomer, Fenry
Schottler, Hermann
Schroder, Herbert Detfuf
Schulz, George Edward Theodore
Schwab, Henry Frederick
Schwarz, Gustav
Seaman, George Walter
Seebach, Henry .Taeob
Segesser, John Uhrich
Shaw, William Hermann
Sheffer, Clarence Edmun<l
Shepherd, Ray Clifton
Simon, Philip
Soomann, Joh an J oaehim Theodore
Spencer, Gardner Alex. Brody
Spengemann, Charles Henry
Speyer, Henry Manfred
Stafford, Albert Francis
Stager, William Ernest
Stange, John Ernest William
Stanle, Frederick Henry
Stanton, Lewis Edgar
Stanley, Charles
Stevens, Bernard Archibald
Stein, William Frederick
Stephens, Luther Cox
Sterling, Sidney
Stimus, Herman Otto
Strycker, Charles
Strauch, Paul
Stussy, Henry David
Summer, Sydney Riser
Sundman, Otto Imanuel
Snttman, Frederick Parker

Swanson, John Paulin
Taaffe, Christian Frederick B.
Teigeler, Conrad, P. M.
Ten Winkel, Frank William
Thierbach, Charles Frederick
Thomas, Bertrand McNulty
Thomas, Robert Humphreys
Thornley, William Henry
Tilsner, Heinrich Engelbert
Tripp, Charles Melvin
Trombley, Lloyd Agassiz
Twomey, James
Ungermann, Gustav John C.
Vock, Simon
Vogel, Philip August Fred 'k
Volkmann, Alexander William
Vollheim, Herma11.
Vollstadt, Frederick
Von-der, Lieth Harold Otto
Voss, Harry David
Waldron, Jerome Bonaparte
Walsh, Harry Francis
Wambach, George
Ward, James William
Watts, Herbert Charles
Webber, Charles
Weber, Richard Franklin
Weiss, Frank John
Weiss, Robert Nathaniel
White, Edward Harris
Wieneke, Robert
Wilcox, Alfred Ernest
"Wilkerson, Erastus Nelson
Williams, John Prychard
Williams, William Hammond
Wolf, Reuben Augustus
Wolters, John Bernard
Wood, Albert Charles
Woodrow', Oscar Finley
Wreden, Henry
Young, Royal Burr
Zaun, Henry, Jr.
Zeiss, Otto John
Zimmermann, Herman
Zimmermann, Louis Michael

209

WITHDRAWN:
Llewellyn, Reese

~l1•l\oy,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Alexander
Olsen, Martin Christian
SUSPENDED POR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Heise, Albert Percy
EXPELLED:
Picard, Charles
DIED:
Frankenberg, Nathan

l'11l11y, ,John

CURTIS LODGE, No.

140.

Cloverdale, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, First Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

l:l·orge Weston, Master,
Charles Loring Sedgley, Sen. Deac.,
Cloverdale, Cal.
Frank Bond, Junior Deacon,
William Beatty Caldwell, Seti. Ward., Charles Emile Humbert, Marshal,
Edward Andrew Cooley, Jun. Ward., Clayton Taylor Coffey, Steward,
Simon Pinschower, Treasurer,
(~otlob Hagmeyer, Steward,
Ernest Briceno Thompson, Sec.,
John Wilcox Caldwell, T yler.
Cloverdale, Cal.
MJ<;MBERS:
Dixon, Eugene Flutcher
Doty, William Edward
Field, John
Gale, Albert Orlando
Goetzelman, John, P . M.
Green, Robert F .
·
Guldager, George Madison
Hagmayer, Gotlob
Hall, John Henry
Harris, Charles William
Hensley, Joseph Clinton
Hollopeter, Elmer E.
Hood, George

Allman, Joseph Peter
Bo.er, George Baker, P. M.
Hrown, George M.
Brush, Fred Walker
Caldwell, John Wilcox
Caldwell, William Beatty
Campbell, Alexander William
11auch, Frank Robert
Coffey, Clayton T.
Carlile, Frank Ford
1:ooley, Edward Andrew, P. M.
Coe, George William
('onner, Frederick Pope, P. M.
14

-373

ROSTER

210

Hurlbert, Robert H.
Humbert, Charles Emile, P. M.
Klciser, George W.
Kleiser , Joseph Albert
Kleiser, James Henry
Kucich, George
Levicy, Starling Clark
Martens, Carl Hermann A.
Marinkovich, Antone
Moore, Harley LaVerne
Moore, Lawrence F.
Newland, Harry David
Perazzo, J oseph
Perazzo, Victor
Pinschower, Simon

ROSTER

Reed, Jeremiah, P. M.
Robb, James
Sedgley, Charles Loring, P. M.
Shelford, Peter L.
Stratton, Vernon Julian
'l'hompson, Ernest B., P. M.
Topjia n, Levon Stephen
Trim, Charles F.
Ward, James Abram
Warren, George F.
Weston, George, P. M.
Williams, Oliver Crayton
Wilson, Thomas Beggs
Yordi, Frank Arthur

Mr <'1lntock, James H.
\l d '1lntock, William Wirt
\I r 1Jarth, Carroll S.
M1·1Jrath, U. Webster, P . M.
M11 l,ane, William

-2.'l

DIED:
Pea rt, George Clark

FRANKLIN LODGE, No. 143.
Courtland, Sacramento County.
Staten Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

-IS5

DIED:
Thompson, Morris Hedding

GRAFTON LODGE, No. 14i.
Grafton, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full 11-Ioon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Elmo Eli, Master,
R odney Munsell Ely, Sen. Deacon,
-R. F. D. No. l , Woodland, Cal. Alex. L. Kennedy, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Albert McCann, Sen. W., Isaac J efferson Ely, Marshal,
........................................, Jun . Ward., Albert Kummer, Steward,
Lloyd Nelson Fabler, Treasurer,
William Wirt McClintock, Stewar<J,
Robert Scott H. Leathers, Secretary, J ohn Boardman Huber, Tyler.
Grafton, Cal.
Cope, Clarence
Crane, Donald
Eakle, Quintus Vernile
Ely, Frank Elmo, P . M.
Ely, Isaac J efferson, P. M.
Ely, Rodney Munsell
Fitch, Edward Lowell
Fritz, Leonard, P. M.
Goettsch, Peter, P. M.

P eart, Barkl.e y Gilbert, P . M.
Peart, Homer Lester, P . M.
Snowball, Henry Havelock
Tabler, Lloyd Nelson
Wraith, William Harry

211

MEMBERS:
Hooper, Charles Venning
Huber, John Boardman
Kennedy, Alexander Lawrence
Kier, Henry McBride
Kimmer, Albertis, P. M.
Kimmer, Carl
Leathers, John Abner
Leathers, Robert Scott H., P. M.
McCann, Frederick Albert

OFFICERS :
I I lll~kad

Runyon, Master,
Harrison I. Ivey, Chaplain,
l 111rtland. Cal.
Peter J acob Huth, Senior D earo11.
I 1111fr I Jelmer Fallmann, Sen. Ward., Gilbert A . Back, Junior Deacon
.. · · .. · . .. . . ._ . ., J un. Warden, Elbert Merwin Kercheval, Marsi1111,
11 111 Y Franklin Isham, Treasurer, Jacob Nelson, Steward,
1
I I Ernest Bunnell, Secretary,
Leroy Campbell, Peck, Steward,
l 'ourtland, Cal.
J oseph Henry Hyde, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
\ 1·ra1mith, Vernon
Hinsdale, Seymour Sidney
ll111tllr, Chades Emile
Hollister, Charles E1lwin, P. M.
l l•tll, William Thomas
Huth, Peter Jacob, P . M.
lllllups, Lewis Cass
Hutton, William Mathew
ll1111ncll, Charles Ernest, P. M.
Hyde, Joseph Henry, P. M.
c Oll(Hhull, Russell Julian
Ivey, Harrison Span, P. M.
H1•11n, William Henry
Isham, Henry Franklin
llt111n, Miles Robert, P. M.
Isham, Murray Leo
lh•un, Thomas Webster, P. M.
Jacobs, Francis Henry
I 11<ll11ck, Gilbert
Kercheval, Howard Douglas, P . M.
llr•llack, John August
Kercheval, Elbert Mer win, P. M.
lftll•, Henry Herbert M.
Kesner, Wilfred Clark
1· dlmann, Louis Helmer
King, Azariah Judson
Urton, Peter B., P. M.
Laborde, J ohn Sylvester
ti 1•111n, Beckman Boyd
Martin, Abel Heald
1lioonc, Arthur Edison
Martin, Joseph
Oroene, George Albert
McCullough, George
lltohtman, Albert John
McQueen, Niel Campbell
ll'rrlngton, Edward Lee
Nelson, Jacob
llln1dale, L ester Jesse
Nichols, Will Harrison

212

ROSTER

Niestrath, Edward Gustav
Smith, William James, P. M.
Osborn, David Horace
Stephenson, o ·s car
Peck, Leroy Campbell
Thisby, George
Phillips, Abner Coombs
Thisby, Leonard Charles
Reynolds Alfred Tho. James, P. M. Thisby, Robert Francie
Roberts, Edward
Thisby, William John
Runyon, Armstead
Van Lobensels, Mauritz C. C.
Runyon, Harry Armstead
Warren, Harvey Stephen
Ryder, Thomas Urmsen
Wehr, William Henry
Scribner, George Washington
Yost, Clifford
Smith, Joseph, T. C.,

ROSTER
! hoy••. James
l l11y H, Robert

-61

DIED:
.Johnston, William Alexander

ORIENTAL LODGE, No. 144.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
Golden Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:
William Silas Hamilton, Master,
Richard Cornelius Jewell, ChaplaiK'4
15 Main Street.
Charles William Whitney, Sen. D.,
George Bradbury Lake, Sen. Ward., Harrie Chester Morris, Jun. Deac.,
John William Husing, Jun. Ward., John Foster Clute, Marshal,
George Howard Thompson, Treas., Thomas Harris, Steward,
Clarence Walker Dobie, Secretary,
Alfred James Snow, Steward,
706 Market Street.
Elmer Duncan Roach, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alberti, George Frederick
Bertrand, August Alphonso
Alden, Bertram Francis
Berry, Olin Lamar, P. M.
Allen, Milton Silas
Boardari, William Joseph
Anderson, Alfred Eric
Boldemann, Adolph Charles
Angus, James Stewart
Boldemann, Charles Adolph
Ashley, Julian Woods
Boldemann, Oscar
Balcom, Wells Estee
Bone, Charles, P. M.
Baldwin, Alfred Walton
Bourke, James Edward
Baldwin, George Porter
Bonefield, Frederick Henry
Bauer, Hamilton Avery
Bowes, Edward Chipman
Beede, David Harris
Boyd, David Wilson
Belfrage, William Ferdinand
Boyd, Samuel Alexander
Berndt, Richard Martin Herman
Boye, Otto Henry

llm11ley, Eciward Hanna
llrlokell, John Clinton
llJl;gs, Armand Eugene, P. M.
llrl1ao, William Mounsey
ltrooks, George William, P. M.
llrown, Carl Grover
Urown, Grafton Tyler
llrumHn, Arthur Karr
ltuckley, John Paul
Uublinger, William Frederick
Uurgren, Albert William
Jlubrmeister, Henry Franklin
lh1rnett, George Watson
Jlurr, Percy Lott
Campbell, Walter Chauncey
'CJampbell, Wm. Robert Lee, P. M.
<Jnrpenter, Thomas Earl
Obapman, William Henry
Ohattleld, George Frederick
Ohlpperfield, Alfred Edward
<!lnrk, Kent Wadsworth
I 'lnrkson, Charles
<'leveland, William Wordsworth
Clute, John Foster
(Jonner, William Edward
Cook, Jay Bruce
I :rowen, Frederick William
Crowell, Walter Harding
Crowley, Timothy Joseph, P. M.
Cutten, Edward Logan
Dunford, Friend Senter
Daniel, John
Davis, Norris King
Davidson, Arthur Edwin
Davies, Llewellyn
deBret~eville, Pierre Alex. LeN.
Deichmiller, Conrad
Dettmann, Fritz Ludwig
Diggs, Henry William
Dobie, Clarence Walker, P. M.
Dolliver, John Walter
Dornin, Nelson Edgar
Douglas, Ernest Campbell

213

Drew, Charles Fauver
Driffield, Vero Carus
Du Bois, Henry Voorman
Duke, Robert Douglas
Dunckel, Ira Titus Chapin
Durbrow, Ross Lewis
Dutton, Robert McMillan
Dyer, Walter John
Eddy, Earl Dorr
Eichorn, Hilmar August
Elfendahl, Victor Hugo
Ellinghouse, Oscar
Elliot, Samuel Roy
Ellis, Henry Cromwell
Erlin, John Theodore
Fickett, James Everett
Fishbeck, Louis
Fitzhugh, William McPherson
Floyd, Edward Thomas
Foster, Arthur William
Foster, Lyman Dickerman
.F owler, George Andrew
Fowler, 'l'haddeus William
France, Robert Lee
1''rank, Henry William
Fredericks, Arthur Remy
Fuller, William Henry
Gale, Herbert Alonzo
Garcia, Matias Joseph
Gebhardt, Charles George
Gerhardt, Peter Clarence
Gibbons, Lewis Alberto
Gibson, Owen Lockha:rt
Gibson, Walter D. Kirkaldy
Gilchrist, William, P. M.
Gillespie, AlbE'rt Edward
Goedje, Harry August
Goewey, Herbert Spencer
Goff', Willia Lemuel
Goodwin, James Albert
Graham, Harry Irvine
Grant, Thomas Chamberlin'
Grauerholz, Henry John
Gray, John Hat.field, P. M.
Green, Adam Treadwell
0

214

Gregg, Harry Blackburn
Gregory, Edward
Groves, Harry Leland
Habenicht, George Nichols
Habenicht, Rudolph
Hamilton, William Silas
Hammond, John Hays
Hanna, George Baum
Hardie, Frank Diedrich
Harris, Harvey Edgar, Jr.
Harris, Thomas
Hawkins, James Shook
Hawks, .Tames Lawrence, P. M.
Hedger, Leslie Arthur
Hendry, George William
Henshall, Richard Percy
Heuer, William Henry
Hicks, Oscar Penn, P. M.
Hilbert, Christian Henry
Hobro, William Dovey
Hodge, Robert, P. M.
Holcombe, Royal Arthur
Hooper, George Warren
Hopkins, Timothy
Hosken, Joseph Frederick
Hotaling, Richard M.
Houghton, Edward Payson
Hovey, Richard Hoffman
Holmes, Fred Elijah
Howard, Oliver Marshall
Howell, .John Short
Hubbard, Adolphus Skinner
Hughes, Frederick Summerfield
Huie, Edward Mercer
Huie, Wm. Henry Thompson
Hume, Herbert
Hume, John Scotchler
Hume, .Joseph Wadhams
Hunkin, Samuel Johns
Hunter, John Valpey .
Husing, John Henry William
Hutchinson,'Ely Israel, P . M.
Ils, John George
'
Imhof, Henry Fran.cis
Jackson, Alden W.

ROSTER
Jacobsen, Henry
Jaegeling, Julius Philip
Jeffreys, Herbert Morgan, P. M.
Jennings, Edward B.
Jewell, .Richard Cornelius, P. M .
.Tohnson, Roger
.Johnston, Samuel Perry
Josselyn, Charles
J oat, George Willis
Jost, Joseph
Jost, William ,Rheinhard, P . M .
Keith, Herbert Bayly
Kewell, Fred William
Kern, Herbert Frederick
Kip, James
Klein, Joseph
Kleinhans Albert
Knight, Charles Edwin
Koenig, Edward George
Labatt, Charles Bagot
Ladd, Frank Bacon, P. M.
Lake, George Bradbury
Lang, Albert George
Lawton, George Ernest
Lee, Samuel James
Leffler, Herman Vance
Lennon, Roger
Levensaler, James Adams
Lillard, Markwell
Lindsay, Matthew John
Lloyd, Fred Brochwel
Lotz, Augustus
Mackenzie, Charles Aler.
MacMullen, James
Macpherson, Fitzhugh
Mann, Clarence Martin
Marcus, Morris
Martin, Frank Chapman, P. M.
Mathews, Henry Edward
Matheson, Kenneth
·
Mauzy, Byron
· ·
McCarty, Alfred Matthew
Mccutchen, Edward Johnson
McDonald, John Marshal
McGinJ>P.e. Robert Tn""-

ROSTER
McKenzie, Elmer Ellsworth
McLaughlin, William Francis
McPherson, Edward Butler
Metzner, Charles Francis
Meussdor:ffer, John Charles
Milestone, William Hebden
Miller, George Washington
Milligan, Robert
Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Moeller, Albert John
Montague, Wilfred Weed
Moody, Robert R•ddy, P. M.
Morffew, Thomas
Morgan, Frederick Charles
Morgan, William RuRsell
Morris, Daniel Edward
Morris, Harrie Chester
Morrow, Robert Head
Morrow, William W.
Morton, Raymond Albert
Morton, William Earl
Muller, Henry Gustave
Murphy, Samuel Greene
Nauman, ciarence Charles
Nauman, Howard Arthur
Nelson, Arthur Selby
Newhall, Edwin White, P. M.
Newhall, William Mayo
Nichols. Thomas Henry
Oden, Edgar George
Onyon, Richard Toppin
Orear, Horace William
Parker, Kingsbury Eastman
Parrish, Ellis Howard
Partridge, Edward Briggs
Partridge, Edward Briggs, Jr.
Partridge, John
Patrick, Walter Hartman
Patterson, Daniel James
Peel, .Jonathan Mor:ffew
Pennell, Henry Edward, P. M.
Pennell, Thomas Mead
Perry, John Melvin
Pierson, Fred Howard
Pike, Charles William

215

Pinkstone, Arthur John
Plattner, Eugene Lester
Poheim, Joseph Francis
Polk, James Knox
Pool, William Worth
Primet, Edward Louis
Pryor, Alfred Edmund
Puckhaber, Charles Richard
Quigley,' l;eigh Richmond
Radke, August Hermann
Radke, Richard Lawrence
Ralston, William Chapman
Randall, Clement
Randall, Samuel Bunker
Randall, William Morse
Redington, Alfred Poett
Rerlncr, Fred Peter
Reid, James Steele
Reindollar, Charles Frost
Remensperger, William Aler.
Riley, Earll Thomas
Ringressy, Albert Preston
Rising, Alfred Hunt
Roach, Elmer Duncan
Robinson, Cornelius Preston, P. M.
Robinson, Leighton Charles Powell
Roebke, Fred Carl, Jr.
Rosie, Walter
Ross, Thomas Paterson
Rowell, Leonard Gifford
Schmid, Christian
Schmidt, Frederick
1:3chmitt, Joseph William
Schneider, Edward William
Schoning, Otto Alvin
Schohay,' Albert John
Schott, Louis
Scott, Ebenezer
Seelig, George
Selfridge, James Russell
Sessions, Volney Paul
Seyler, Charles, Jr.
Siebe, George Henry
Simister, Herbert
Simpson, Waldie James

216

ROSTER

Smith, Harry Burt, Jr.
Smith, Henry Sydney
Smith, Isaac Lincoln
Smith, James Coleman
Smith, Lewis Warren
Smith, Walter Bashford
Snow, Alfred James
Somers, Howard
Spader, Charles Thoms
Sperry, Horace Benjamin
Sprague, Peter Tiburco
Spreckels, John Diedrich
Stoddart, Augustus Wynne
Stokes, Frederick Robert
Stoll, Albert George
Stroh, George Noyes
Swain, Clarkson
Swan, Benjamin Ralph
Swanson, Alex.
·
Sullivan, Alan Elwood
Suydam, Charles Henry
Templeman, Henry
Therkof, Gustave Henry
Thomas, Henry Ignatious
Thompson, George Howard, P. M.
Thompson, Thomas Larkin
Thomson, Stuart Coventry
Thurston, Samuel Royal
Todd, Frank Gregory
Tonningsen, John, P. M.
Traung, Charles Frederick
Troutt, James Morris, P. M.
Turkington, Robert Richardson
Burroughs, Hector Robin
DreYer, George Richard

Turner, David
Turner1 William John
Van Ness, Arthur W.
Van Norden, Rudolph Warner
Von Rhein, Frank Lincoln
Voorman, Henry Augustus
Wallace, James Hargraves
Ward, John Thomas
Ward, William Douglas
Warner, Charles Hutchinson
Watkins, Alonzo Augustus
'\'\leaver, C:hester Neal
Wells, Albert Ackley
Wells, Norton Chamberlin
Westdahl, Ferdinand, P. M.
Westdahl, Ferdinand Wisby
Westdahl, Lawrence Hawley
Wetherby, Wallace Tappan
Whelan, William Augustus
White, William James
Whitehead, Ernest
Whitney, Charles William
'\Vieland, Emil John
Wienand, Leopold David
Willits, Charles Davis
Williams, Arthur Volmar
Williams, Charles
Wilson, John Charles
Windeler, Henry Frederick
Wood, Abraham
Woods, Fred Nickerson, Jr.
Woolsey, Chester Howard
'younger, William John
-362

WITHDRAWN:
Weaver, Albert Snyder
We~terfeld, Carl

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Clark, Benjamin
Sloane, Charles Francis
Poindexter, Theodore
Washburne, Lynde Arthur
Bell, John
Castle, Stephen

DIED:
Cofran, .John William Gunnison
Gordon, James Edward
Herry, William Lawrence

ROSTER

217

VITRUVIUS LODGE, No. 145.
Bloomfield, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceuing Pull Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Jones, Walter
llianehini, Augestino
King, James
Donaiti, Achelle
Kowalsky, Henry Isaac
Caughey, James Francis
Larsen, Rasmus Gergen
Coporgno, Virgil
Le.ufenburg, Michael Ney
Collister, Oscar, P. M.
LeBaron, Harrison Melvin, P. M.
Collister, William Stanley
Le Baron, Claude Leslie
Cockrill, Bruce Travi.s
Le Baron, Chauncey Arthur, P. M.
Cockrill, William Aaron
Levens, Harry Stocking
Cornett, William Henry
Linebaugh, William Abraham
Cunningham, Isaac
Mache, Amerigo
r•unninghame, William Na8oau
Morganti Epi
cle Klark, Henry
Oliver, John Salton, P. M.
Dickinson, Leon
Pellascio,
Miglio John
Duncan, Thomas Jefferson
Petersen, Peter
Freeman, Warren Whitcomb
Reinoehl, Charles Henry
Galehouse, Frank Clark
Roe, George Robert
Guldager, Hans
Sartori, Ignazio
Hall, William Parker
Smith, Commodore Perry
Harvey, Ira Berry, P. M.
Smith, Russell L.
Hansen, Alexander
Steele, David
Herbert, William Henry
Steele, Thomas John
liundley, Elmer M.
Stump, John Conrad
Hinshaw, John David, P. M.
Rturgeon, Wade
Hopkins, Albon David
Thomas, David
Irvin, James Thomas
Williams, Charles Celey
.Tameson, James Marshall
-54
Wilson,
Andrew
.Tones, Patrick Carroll
DIED:
B ailey, Louis Clark

220

ROSTER

ROSTER

EEL RIVER LODGE, No. 147.
Fortuna, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles F. Evers, Master,
Fortuna, Cal.
Guy T . Sears, Sen. Warden, .
George W. Long, Jun. Warden,
Reginald H. Bowman, Treasurer,
Charles A. Eastman, Secretary,
F ortuna, Cal.

Edgar S. Robertson, Cha plain,
Walter E . Innes, Sen. Deacon;
M. Claude Henry, Jun. Deacon,
J ohn M. Connick, Marshal,
Harry K. F. Hansell, Steward,
William D. Gray, Steward,
Clarence Eugene P arkman, T yler.

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Maxwell Park
Ellis, Clarence Eugene
Anderson, Martin
Evers, Charles Frederick
Baker, Henry Grant
Feigenbaum, Joseph
Barkdull, Alva Raymond
Fisher, Walter Thomas, P. M.
Forsythe, John Robinson
Barkdull, Joseph Carley
Frost, Charles Baker
Barnes, Aaron Selby
Frost, James Lumbert
Beacom , Charles Wakefield
Faulkner, Eaton
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Fuller, Willis Meares
Bellatti, John Baptista
Gillogly, Mathew Lee
Bennett, Henry Paxson
Gray, William Daniel
Bird, James Bishop,
Greig, Thomas Alexander
Bowman, Reginald Hamilton
Guthrie, Samuel Porter
Burton, Richard Morton
Hansell, Harry Guthrie
Callihan, Robert
Chidester, Marion, P. M.
Hansell, Harry Kingston F., P. M.
Connick, Alex. Grant
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Connick, John Melvin, P. M.
Hancock, William Luther
Crabtree, Frank
Hansen, Daniel Webster
Dale, Jeremiah
Harris, Robert Lee, P. M.
Davis, Henry Delasaux
Hauck, Nathan
Davis, Henry Nelson
Hayden, Charles Wilbur
Davis, George Oxley
Helmke, Frederick Martin
Delamere, HenJ"v Sindid.r. P. M.
Henry, Melvin Claude
Dinsmore, Harold Adam
Hiller, George
Dinsmore, Fred Andrea
Hiller, Phillip Alex.
Dinsmore, George Evans
Hornbrook, Ralph Leslie
Dixon, John William, P. M.
Hull, Joseph
Dunnigan, William Good
Hubbard, James Calvert
Eastman, Charles Austin, P. M.
Hunnacut, James Jelfries

I unes, Walter Edson
James, Samuel Oliver
Kay, Fred Moses
Kinman, Carlin
Kramer, Herbert
Kohnenburg, Henry John
Lamb, Alex. Abel
Lamb, Winfield Scott
.Lane, John Alex.
Lawson, James
Legg, Gordon Rolley
Long, George William
Luther, Frank William
Leach, Frederick Art?ur
Marshall, James Edward
Masson, Alexander
Maxwell, James Washington
McNeil, Brice Hoagland, P. M.
Medcalf, John Edward H.
Morgan, Bertram F.
Neill, Louis Allison
Newman, John George
North, Davis Beauregard
Norwood, William .John, P. M.
Oliver, Frank Wright, P. M.
Orcutt, Thaddeus Adam
Perrott, Walter Louis
Palmer, Edwin Alex.
Parlrn1an, Clarence Eugene

Plymale, Dionieius
Robertson, Edgar Simpson
Rowley, Charles A. E.
Runnels, Leslie
Runnels, William Leonard
Runner, John William
Ryan, John Walter, P. M.
Schueler, Henry William
Skinner, Frank
Slingsby, James
Smith, Frederick David
Starr, Chester Thompson
Sears, Guy Travis
Slater, Hugh Henry
Stewart, George Edwin
Stewart, Wellington Homer, P. M.
Stone, George Wells
Swanger, Samuel Frederick
Thompson, Charles Robert
'fravis, John Armstrong
Tuttle, Frederick Ackerman
Twohey, Arthur E. B.
Underwood, George
Van Sickle, Thomas
Weber, Martin
Weber, Michaels Nicholas
Wood, John William
Whitney, Charles Harris
Webster, Edward Wnrren
-116

WITHDRAWN:
Dale, Harvey
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brugh, Louis John
H errick, George Arthur
EXPELLED :
Wellock, Charles Orville

Dale, John

221

DIED:
' Newell, Daniel Sheldon

222

ROSTER

LASSEN LODGE, No. 149.
Susanville, Lassen County. ·
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFl:'ICERS:

Alvin Eugene De Forest, Master,
Samuel Lyman Damon, Sen. Deacon,
Susanville, Cal.
Medford Roop Arnold, Jun. Deacon,
Ross Eher Bangham, Senior Ward., James Augustus Pardee, Marshal,
Willies Henry Davis, Junior Ward., Joseph H . Hunter, Stewa.rd,
Leon Roy Cady, Treasurer,
Lorenzo Eugene De Forest, Steward,
William Stone Harrison, Secretary, David Campbell Hyer, Tyler.
Susanville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, Jules
DeForest, Albert Eugene
DeForest, Charles Vaden
Arnold, Alex. Thrall
Arnold, Medford Roop
DeForest, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
De Forest, Lorenzo Eugene
Asher, Morris
Bangham, Frank Henry
Dodge, Edmund H.
Earl, William Howard
Bangham, Sandusky Fred
Emerson, Charles Thomas
Bangham, Ross Eber
Emerson, Charles Ed., P. M.
Bassett,· George Estell
Bennett, Herbert Warren, P. M.
Enhorning, Herman Olaf
Blake, James Curran
Feher, Emil Justh
Folsom, Lewis Melville
Boggs, Chester Arthur
Borrette, John Skedge, P. M.
Folsom, Melville Orman
Branham, James, P. M .
Fraser, William Walter
Brockman, William, P. M.
Goumaz, Philip Jacob
Bunnell, Abel
Gregory, A. Martin
Burro\1ghs, Harry De Forest
Hall. Charles E.
Cady, Leon Roy
Hall, .William Henry, P. M.
Cahlan, John, P. M.
Hall, Louis Davis
Cain, Fred A.
Hallowell, Charles Willis
Campbell, John Elmer
Harrison, William Stone
Caswell, Preston
Hart, William Ralph, P. M.
Caughill, Charles Francisco
Hendricks, Howard Edmonde
Carter, Wm. Jonathan
Hulsman, John Fritz
Coffin, Erle B.
Hulsman, William Grant
Collins, Raymond Humphrey
Hunsinger, Augustus Cassius
Cramer, Charles
Hunter, Joseph H.
Cramer, Daniel Frederick
Hurlbut, Robert Ward
Damon, Samuel Lyman
Hyer, David Campbell
Davis, Willis H.
,Johnson, William John

ROSTER
I illl{Hbury, Edward Orrin
I< noch, Isaac
l<nudson, Lewis
liawson, Charles Everett
Jjeavitt, Benjamin Harrison
ljeonard, Jared G.
Martin, Edward Alonzo
Maiten, John Thomas
McClaskey, Frank Tahoe
MoDow, George Nelson
M ·Kay, H enry Thad.
MoKinsey, Noble Samuel
Minckler, William David
Mosely, Albert William
Nathan, Solomon
Odett, Charles Albert
Otto, Fred A.
Pardee, James Augustus, P. M.
Pardee, Julien Eugene, P. M.
Philbrook, Alonzo Kelley
Ramsey, .John Francis
Hamsey, Thomas Abner
Roseberry, Thomas Alex., P. M .

Shanks, Frederick Hastings
· Sharp, William Walker
Sifford, Alex.
Smith, Louis Sprigg
Snyder, Henry
Spalding, John Bridger
Spalding, Wilbur Fisk
S~reshley, Frank D.
Talbott, Basie Homer
'fhibault, Lewis
Tremain, Ivan Robert
Tremain, Joseph Mellow
Van Loan, Elmer
Van Norden, Thomas Albert
Vogt, John Henry, Jr.
Vincent, William Elmer
Ward, David Franklin
Ward, Franklin Millard
Wilson, Ernest Everett
Winchester, George Edward
Worley, Jesse Crim
Zimmerman, John William

-103

DIED:
Easton, George Brading

MOLINO LODGE, No. 150.
Tehama, Tenama County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Charles Simpson, Master,
Alfred Roy Clark, Chaplain,
Tehama, Cal.
Wm. Dawson McCune, Sen. Deac.,
John Thomas Youle~, Sen. Ward., Arthur John Youles, Jun. Deac.,
William Ephriam Underhill, Jun. W., Samuel Edgar Conrad, Marshal,
John Simpson, Treasurer,
John Risse, Steward,
William Joseph Sellick, Secretary, John Edward Hall, Steward,
Tehama, Cal.
Henry Clark, Tyler.
Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Aitken, Robert Balentine
Anderson, Fred Fleming

MEMBERS:
Asman, Otto Ed·ward, P. M.
Blatchey, Joseph
Bogard,. Andrew Jackson

224

ROSTER

Boyer, William Paul
Britt, George Leroy
Chamberlain, Joseph
Champlin, George Beecher, P. M.
Clark, Alfred Roy
Clark, Aurelius Ray
Clark, Charles Henry
Clark, Ernest Pier
Clark, Henry
Clegg, Robert
Conrad, Samuel Edgar
Davis, Grover Cleveland
Finnell, Simpson
Golden, John Henry
Golden, Nicholas Francis
Gyle, Louis Abraham
Gyle, Sylvan Herman, P. M.
Gyle, Joseph Charles
Hall, John Edward
Houseman, John Samuel
Houseman, Robert Pbrterfield
Lee, William
Mason, Orville Lucius
McBride, William G.
McCune, Wm. Dawson
McGuinness, Thomas, P. M.
Miller, William Wallace
Means, Thomas Herbert
Montgomery, William 'l'homas

Asman, Ulrich Henry

ROSTER

Morrisey, Thomas Francis
Muller, John Baptist
Osborn, Jesse Mason
Peden, Albert Oliver
Pitts, Eugene Hiram
Risse, John
Rikert, Benjamin Frederic
Schroer, Frederick
Sellick, William Joseph, P. M.
Simpson, John, P. M.
Simpson, George Charles
Smith, Matthew Allen
Smith, Raymond Manlove
Stanley, Edward Charles
Stock, Joseph Ferdinand
Stockstill, Elisha Nels on
Tuman, George Elmer
Tuman, Edward Whited
Tyler, Ulysses Butte
Underhill, William Ephriam
Vogelsang, George
Wanee, William Edward
Weitemeyer, George James
Williamson, William
Woorl, Charles
Worthington, John James
Y oules, Arthur John
Youles, John Thomas
Zintz, Conrad Thomas
-64

WITHDRAWN:
Silsbee, Norwood

SUSPENDED FOR
Boyd, Samuel Madison

NON-PAYMENT OF
Carr, Nielson

DUES:

225

WOODLAND LODGE, No. 156.
Woodland, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, third :Priday in each month.
OFFICEES:

lrn11cne Thomas Lampton, Master, Edward John Baird, Chaplain,
Woodland, Cal.
Harry Sinclair Summers, Sen. Deac.,
William Dykes, Senior Warden,
Tracey Boerstler, Jun. Deacon,
Wnrren Allston Brown, Jun. Ward., Caleb Russell Wilcoxon, Marshal,
I lcT.ekiah Monroe Miller, Treas.,
Frank Walter Weaver, Stewai·d,
William H enry Curson, Secretary, Henley Earl Miller, Steward,
<150 First Street.
William Bradley Young, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Craig, Wilton Porter
\rous, Thomas Otto, P. M.
Craig, John Stephens
t\ rmstrong, Bert'
Cranston, Lester Henry
llnlley, Archie Glover
Criteser, William Thomas
llrdrd, Edward Llewellyn
Crutcher, Elliott Wallar
ll11lrd, John Edward
Cummins, Thomas Day
lhalcer, Clayton Sinclair
Curson, Nicholas Wyckoff.
llall, Byron, P. M.
Curson, William Henry, P. M .
Hall, Chester Alex.
Deaner, Samuel Christian
llrdl, Gerald Lamont
Dickey, Edward Willise
llancly, James Edward
Dickinson, Clarence Fitzhugh
Bandy, Claude Marion
Dingle, Charles Edward, P. M.
llnrker, Samuel Wm.
Dingle, Charles Oscar
llnrnes, Cosby Henry
Becker, Jasper Newton
Hnrnes, Henry Thomas
Dungan, Jesse Holland
Henmer, Richard Henderson
Dykes, William
llernard, Walter Allen
Duncalf, Walter, P. M.
Black, William Small
Eakle, Henry Poffenberger, Jr.
hlanchard, Frank Williams
Elliott, Henry Baker, P. M.
Blevins, William Joseph
Ellison, John Harrison
lloerstler, Tracey
Everett, Louis Phillip
Brown, Richard Marion
Ewert, Friedrich Charles
llrown, Warren Allston
Fairchild, Fred Ross
Browning, Robert Welch
Farnham, Erastus Syivester
Burns, Daniel Monroe, P. M.
Fergus,on, Franklin Benjamin
Hush, Henry Jonathan
Fingland, John
C1nin, William Henry
Fish, Charles Orlando, P. M.
Coil, Herbert Elmer
Fitz, George Hilton
()oil, LeRoy
15

226

ROSTER

Gaddis, Edward Everett
Linderman, James Edward
Garoutte, Jere Monahan
Mast,· Edward John Fred 'k
Gable, Hayes Harvey, P. M.
Mattei, Fred Louis
Gibson, Thomas Ballard
Mattei, Frank Peter
Gibson, Robert James
McConnell, James Isom, P. M.
Gill, Henry Davis
McCullough, Fred 'k Frank
Gostick, Charles Edward
McCullough, Pred 'k Gapen
McFarland, John Carr
Grant, John T.
Gregory, William Henry, P. M.
McQuaid, John William, P. M.
Griggs, Sylvester Minor
Miller, David
Harling, John Douglas
Miller, Henry Earl
Harrold, Arthur Benjamin
Miller, Hezekiah Monroe
Hartsock, Herman Adam
Miller, Noah Lee
Hartsock, Luzerne Harrison
Miller, Norman Boone
Hawkins, Bellwood Chase
Michael, Morris
Hawkins, Nicholas Andrew
Mixon, William Franklin, P. M.
Hayward, Edward Babbitt
Morris, Amiel
Montgomery, Samuel Morris
Hecke, Gustav Henry
Henshall, John Alfred
Mumma, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Hilliker, Loren Warren
Murray, Joseph Alfred
Hollingsworth, George Warren
Murray, Sidney Lafayette
Holt, Isaa() Henry
Musgrove, Jacob DeKalb
Huston, Arthur Craig, ·p, M.
Nason, Fred Lowell
Huston, Edward Panamore
Nelson, William Wirt
Huston, Harry Lyle
North, Arthur Walbridge
Hughes, Byron Clayton
Osborne, Clyde Albert
Hughes, Delwyn Edward
Owens, Ivor David
Hughes, Norris Edwin
Parker, Oscar Erwin
Hughes, Thomas Green, P. M.
Per1dns, Calvin
Hyman, William Morris, P. M.
'Persons, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Jacobs, Daniel Elmer
Petersen, Wilhelm Johan
Kauffman, Forrest Augustus
Pond, Wallace Rognetta
Kean, 'William Otho
Porter, Harry Deloss
Kern, George Tilden
Praet, Edward William
Kincheloe, Zachariah Benson
Rablin, William Henry
Kitto, Thomas Humphrey
Rasmussen, Hans Jacob W.
Rasor, Claire
Lampton, Eugene Thomas
Lasky, Israel
Read, Aytchmonde Clarence
Langenour, William Roy, P. M.
Reese, Thomas Brown
Langenour, Charles T.
Richmond, Charles Lambard
Langenour, Philip Thomas, P. M. Roberts, Hampton Evans
Lawhead, Hiram Davis
Rosenberg, Isidor
Lee, Adelbert Robert
Russell, Willie F.
Leithold, John Vincent
Ryan, Henry Philander
Leslie, Wesley Le Roy
Saunders, Harry Russell

ROSTER

22i

lobuder, William Campbell, P. M.
Von Jochurnson, Frederick
lfo·lu·r, Christian Henry
Wallace, Richard Percival
f, "· •. Louis Chris
Ward, Moses Wylie
lrnlth, Eddie Ryan
Weaver, Frank Walter
lt11ltlt, Wm. Franklin
West, Herman Bradford
hm,•ely, Ervie Cecil
West, William Henry, P. M.
l'fJ11111 lding, Thaddeus Stephens
Whitney, George E lledge
•It• 1·hens, Benjamin Hickman
Wilcoxon, Caleb Russell, P. M .
ltophens, Frank Warren
Wilson, Preston Gillen
hlll'll'Att, Buford Cadwell
Wirth, Christian Frederick
lu1r1rett, Horner Marion
Williams, Samuel Thomas
ll11111mers, Harry Sinclair
Windsor, John William
Thompson, George Gilbert
Winne, William Henry
Thomas, Charles Wilbur, Jr.
Witham, Alvin Milton
•rurner, J ames Edmund
Wright, John Henry
\ 1111 Met er, Conrad Luci us
Young, William B., P . M .
-178
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
llnlfonr, Douglas
Malcolm, Walter Francis
DIED:

1111,1·"· David
~lll'h11l'l, Joseph

Rahm, Francis Marion
Taylor, James Thomas
Williams, .Tohn Cal vert

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. 161.
Milton, Calaveras County,
Stated Meetings, Snturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
l lu111dlcr Hun tington, Master,

\ lilton, Cal.
llo1acc Bell Allen, Srnior W arden,
• ... ....... ................ , !1111. Ward.,
\ I 1rion Lee Hunt Trra suter
l l111 rlcs Wisc Rhodes, Secret; ry,
~lilton, Cal.

Johann Fred'k Helms, Sen. Deacon,
Carl Christian H ansen, Jun . Deacon,
........................................,Marshal,
J ames Joshua Lillie, Steward,
Thomas Nevens, Strward,
W illiam H. H. Rhodes, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
.\ IJen, Horace Bell, P. M.
ll11kor, John Manuel, P. M.
llot 1•h<'r, Conrad Franklin
llnrnharn, F rederick Cloyd

Dennis, William Samuel
Denton, Walter Lines
Fontana, Charles Dominie
Hanseh, Carl Christian

ROSTER
ROSTER

228

Lillie, James Joshua
Hartsock, Addison Leroy
Nevens, Thomas
Helms, Johann Frederick
Hildebrand, Steven Decatur, P. M. Rhodes, William Henry Harrison
Rhodes, Char~s Wise, P. M.
Honey, Milton
Schroebel, Riehason Rhodes
Horne, Frank Edmond
Shepherd, James Shields
Hunt, Marion Lee
Shipley, William Chapman, P. M.
Huntington, Chandler, P. M.
Smith, Donald Craig
Johnston, Benjamin
Jorgenson, Nills Jorgen Wm., P. M. Snow, William
Stewart, John Daniels
-98
Klemp, Jacob
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cameron, James Henry
Persons, William Milton
Wheeler, Rees Thompson

HARMONY LODGE, No 164.
Sierra City, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OF.l:'ICERS:
(No Certificate.

Anderson, Oscar Emil
Avignoni, John
Avignoni, Richard Felix
Botting, Thomas Colfax
Cox, William, P. M.
Castagnetti, Jerome, P. M.
Culbertson, Claude Milnott

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Folsom, Jay Clarance
Gar:fi.eld, Levi
·James, William Matthew
James, Richard
Lavery, William Andrew, P. M.
Pride, Arthur Richard

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
White, George Edward
DIED:
Black, George Scott

229

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 165.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore· l3treet.
OFFICERS:
l'hineas Fanning Ferguson, Master, Benjamin Milfred Wood, Sen. Deac.,
2027 Vallejo Street.
Thomas David Colestock, Jun. Deac.,
Joseph Ar-thnr Kuykendall, S. Ward., Henry Berthold Nibble, Marshal,
Ia mes Hardy Lewis, Jun. Warden, Arthu r Worcester Pike Steward
Snm I Iuston Daniels, Treasurer,
Delbert Mathews Broy: Steward:
I lugh James Owen, Secretary,
George Washington Perkins, Tyler.
1888 O'Farrell Street.
·
MEMBERS:
Adams, Adolph
Bender, Carl Godfrey
Benjamin, Frank Edward
Adams, Charles Albert, P. M.
Alexander, George Lewis
Berry, DeLos Tracy
Allen, Arthur Fuller
Bisbee, George Washington
Allen, Isaac Patten
Black, James . Alex.
Allen, John
Blake, Sumner Iverson
Ammerup, Gottlieb Adolph
Blanchard, Walter Hutchings
Anderson, Reinhold Laracenius
Blanckenburg, Emil Louis William
Arding, William Arthur
Bodler, Frank Frederic
Armstrong, George Robert, P. M.
Boettcher, Paul
Atkins, Frank Ernest
Bohls, Henry
Atkins.on, Thomas Thompson, P. M. Borland, James Howatt
Auger, Harry Leon
Boutelle, William Clarence
Averell, Herman Ellsworth
Bramsted, John Henry
Ayers, Edward Newton
Brann, Walter Scott
Bniley, Mitchell Phillips
Breidenbach, Emile Henry
Baker, Francis Joseph
Brown, Albert N el~on
Haker, James Whitley
Brown, Henry Eastman
Ballard, J ed~diah Stow
Brown, James Albert
Balls, John
Brown, Moses Pettingell
Barre, Christopher Columbus
Brown, Willis Merritt
Barnhisel, Epenetus Rodgers
Broy, Delbert Mathews
Barr, William George
Brunings, John Henry
Barrere, Louis
Brunt, Walter Neat, P. M.
Bauer, Charles Franklin
Bryan, Charles Henry, P. M.
Bauer, George William
Bryant, Edgar Reeve
Beatty, John
Buchse, Ernest Augustus
Belcher, William Johnson
Buffington, William Horace

ROSTER
Bull, Franklin Pettingel, P. M.
Bundy, George
Busby, Frederick Henry
Cameron, John William, P. M.
Campbell, Henry Homer
C.:ampe, John George
Carlson, Gustave Edwin
C.:arter, Stewart
Chandler, Lewis Edward
Chloupek, Erwin Ladislar
Christesen, Martin August C.
Clark, True Sanford
Claussenius, Maximilian
Cloak, Henry Burdell
Clover, John Alex.
Ululf, William
Coffin, Joseph Wilbur, Jr.
Cole, Nathaniel Parker
Colestock, Thomas :Pavid
Colford, Lewis Oscar
Collins, Charles Henry
Collins, Henry Charles, P. M.
C.:ollins, William Henry
Compagno, Emanuel
Conrad, John George, P. M.
Cook, Carroll, P. M.
C.:orbett, William Colver
Covert, George Howard
Croal, George James
Crosby, James Winfield
Culver, George De Witt
Cumback, William Elbert
Cuthbert, John William
Cutter, Edward Bowie
Daniels, Sam Houston, P. M.
Davidson, John Clay
Davis, Burt Lincoln
Davis, Charles Lott
Davis, Marks
Davis, Warren Franklin
Davis, Winfield Scott
Deering, Frank Prentiss
DeGuire, Robert Paul
Delamater, Rolla Cornelius
Delzelle, William Robert

Dial, Edwin Lee
Dick, William Henry,• P. M.
Dillon, Gerald Luke
Doherty, John Charles
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Dorr, William Raymond
Duff, Thomas Carson
Dunkle, Edwin M.
Dunne, Joseph John
Dye, Milo Ernest
Easton, Wendell, P. M.
Eaton, Loui11 Page
Edwards, J 'a mes Washington
Edwards, Raymond Arden
Edwards, William
Eidenmuller, William Cooper
J<;merick, Walter Archibald
Esser, Alex. Julius
Ever~, Edward Napoleo11
Faulkner, Charles Pittman, P. M.
· Faull, Ashley Richard
Faull, William Clark
Fenkhausen, Rudolph Henry
Fennimore, Walter Dana
Ferguson, George Bonnell
Ferguson, Howard William
Ferguson, Phineas Fanning
Ferguson, William Cook
Feudner, Martin Otto
Fischer, Edward George
Fisher, William
Fitch, Luther Edward
Forbes, John Franklin
Ford, Joseph Daniels
Forry, Charles Edwa:rd
Forster, Edwin Lyc~rgus, P. M.
Foy, Frank John
Frazer, Thomas Jackson
Frisbee, George Gordon
Frisbee, Jacob Lynn
Fry, Robert Baker
Gallet, Henry Wells
Gardner, John Bndicott
Garratt, Milton Donohue
Gauthier, Eugene, Jr.

ROSTER
Uearing, Frederick
Ooiasler, Carl Georg~ Lewis
Oerdes, Frederick Carsten
<lerdts, Jonn
<II ngg, Emil
<llngg, Herman Ch11rles, P. M.
lllngg, Rudolf Clevelanil
<Jould, Charles Walter
IJould, Harry Folsom
<lraham, Thomas Dunnett
(lreene, Charles H enry
<lrogory, Edward Herbert L.
<lruenhagen, C.:harles Henry
Oruenhagen, Theodore Godlowe
(foost, Thomas Frederick
ll unton, H oward Mathew
lluyett, Roderick George, P. M.
llagbom, Emil Wilhelm
II aggl und, John Gustave
11 all, Frank Delmer
Halsted, William Augustus
llammond, Manton E.
Hannigan, Michael Pereira!
llart, Harrold D.
If eitrnuller, Henry Diedrich
11 oil wig, Herbert Frederick
llemenway, Sylvester Wash.
lfcnsley, Fre<lerick Conway; P. M.
11 ensley, George Augustus
Hensley , William John
11 ess, William Edward
llill, John Ellis
II ill, Joseph Andrew
IIoffman, Ramon King
llogan, Howard Henry
II ollister, Frank E.
lfoward, Charles Stewart
llughes, J esse Pierce
llulme, Charles Allen
llulme, Edwin Page
llulme, James Garfield
llumme\, Herman Henry
llumphrey, Charles Franklin
Hunter, Frank Lee
Hunter, Lewis Clarence, P. M.

Iredale, Charles Winslow
Irvine, Leigh Hadley
Irving, Alex.
I verson, Cha rles Wm.
Johnson, Frank
Johnson, James Halvor
Johnson, John Charles
Johnston, Daniel Lawren ce
Jones, Albert Thomas
.Tones, Arthur Owen
Jones, Arthur Sidney
Jones, William Ernest
Kampe, Solomon
Keene, Reginald Edwin
Kelton, Edward Ames
Kem pston, Arthur
Keny on, Curtis George, P. M.
Kerr, Thomas Blair
Klein, John Adolph
Kohn, Isaack
Koster, John Andrews
Krieger, Charles Mathew
Kuenzi, Albert Rudolph M.
Kuykendall, Joseph Arthur
Lacey, Alber t Ernest
Lacey, Joseph Carlisle
La Forest, Emile
Lank, Samuel James
Large, William Henry
Laug·hlin, Clyde Briggs
Lawrie, John Urquha1t
Leary, Daniel Florence
Lea vitt , John Wheel-.1'
Lee, Frank James
Lewis, James Hardy
Lewis, Leland Stanford
Lindner, August Richard
Lindner, Ernest Gottlieb
Lindsey, Edward Kimball
Lloyd, William Vaughn
London, l:lcnry
Long, George Searley
Love, James Alex.
Lowe, Edmund Ashbrook
Lucas, Walter Edward

231

232

ROSTER

Lumley, John
Mackie, William
Mangrum, Arthur Sherman
Marks, Jesse Emanuel ·
Martens, Frederick Theo.
Marwedel, Charles Walter
Masterson, Joseph Alfred
Matteson, Erastus Potter
Maxwell, Franklin
Mayer, Louis Carl
McClaughry, Hull
McCoy, Henry Dohrman
McGahie, Robert John
McGregor, Samuel
McKenna, Joseph Dimond
McKeller, Norman
McLean, Walter Joseph
McMullin, Samuel
McNair, William Wilson, P. M.
Mehrtens, John Henry
Menzies, James Scott
Merrill, Jay Harrold
Mettmann, Frank Xavier
Miall, Cuthbert Erskine M.
Miles, Earl Claybourne
Miles, William Emmert
Miller, Alex. Charles
Minaker, Andrew Jones
Minor, Theo. Henry
1.Iinson, Robert Kemp
Mitchell, George Marion
Mix, L ee Williamson
Morgan, Charles Lewis
Morrison, John Chambers
Moseley, Andrew Simpson
Murdock, George Hamilton
Nagel, Charles Hoffman
Nibbe, Henry Berthold
Nichols, James Francis
Nicoll, Wallace Clifton
Noble, Howard Delos, P. M.
Nutter, Eugene Colley
Osborn, Lamartine
Overgaard, Soren Knudsen
Overton, Charles Parshall, P. M.

Owen, Edgar Hugh
Owen, Hugh James, P. M.
Owen, Melville Griffith
Parish, Mark
Patterson, Robert Hamilton
Pease, Charles Julius
Pedlar, William James
Percy, Earl Newman
Perkins, George Washington
Perkins, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Perry, Frederic Jewell'
Pike, Arthur Worcester
Pippy, George Henry
Plughoff, Albert David
Porcher, John
Powers, Aaron Hubbard
Purdie, John Stewart
Purrington, Clarence Woodforcl
Quevedo, Francisco
Quigley, George Frederick
Ralph, James Davison
Ralston, Henry James
Ramacciotti, Hugo Francis
Raubinger, William John
Rednall, William Walter
Reichling, Albert Henry
Rice, Richard James
Richards, James Symmes
Rietzke, Gustave Charles
Rouse, Austin Dwight
Sanford, Wimburn Laurie
Scheerer, Joseph
Schetzel, Adolph Georg
Schmidt, Edwin Valentine
Schmidt, Henry Claus
Schroepfer, Albert
Scott, George
Scott, Horace Van Arsdale
Scull, Charles
Shainwald, Herman
Sharp, William Enfield
Shartzer, Thomas Farrington
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Skinkle, Almeron
Smith, Charles Robert

ROSTFJR
lmlth, Haldor
ltultb, Robert Masson
tlouthard, Albert Burley
Ml'11 rrowe, Thomas William
tlpecht, Charles
pencer, Franklin Morse
tlpengler, Edward Philip
Mluley, Robert 'l'ilghman
.lteele, Walter Bert
~ltephens, James Alex.
llt ,, ... George Reid
itockfieth, John
lltofen, John Jacob, P. Id.
rltrachan, John Ernest
'1h'atford, Harry James
lltromberg, Bernard Fritho:tl'
It romberg, Edwin Allen
tHroud, John Roflgers
lturken, Fabian Henry
famner, Frank William
Suydam, James Hobart
'1'11bcr, Charles Wesley
'l'nlt, William Cove
Taylor, George McCleHan
Taylor, Henry
Terry, Wallace Irving
Tibbitts, Francis Albert
Tiffany, William Zobel
'rolman, Rufus Jenkins
Tomlinson, Richard Frank
Trlttenbach, Emil
•rnrner, Howard
ITmbsen, Gustave Henry
Van Schaick, Frank Chester
Vnn Schaiek, Roynane H .
Veeder, Herman Greig
Veeder, Howard Potter
Von Bonin, Carl
Von Hartwig, Carl

Walbey, Reginald Walter
Walker, Thomas Dawson
Walkup, Ward Gale
Wallace, James Sanderson
Walters, Edward Charles
Wanstall, Wm. Sidney
Ward, Charles Herbert
Wear, Norman Henry
Weber, John
Webster, Walter Byron
Welch, Willard Choate
Wenzelburger, Chas. Wm. Augustus
Wenzelburger, Emil
Werner, Carl
Westphal, Christian Henry
Westphal, Edward William
Westp.hal, Henry William
Westphal, Otto Frank, P. M.
Wetmore, John Griffeth
Whirlow, Herman Francis
White, Majer John
White, Thomas Raymond
Whitelaw, Henry William
Wiegel, Louis Henry
Wiesenhaven, Henry Herman
Williams, Harry de Nell
Williams, Joseph Rickard
Wilson, Charles Harold
Wilson, Joseph Lewis
Wilson, Thomas Chamberlain
Wolfe, Clarence Navarre
Wood, Benjamin Milfred
Wood, Charles Michael
Woods, Henry Frank
Wright, Francis Finelon H.
Wynn, John Edward
Young, Clarence Eaton
Zett, George John
Zipf, Albert Ferdinand
-404
WITHDRAWN:

Karasek, Frank
L11gge, Robert Thomas

233

Miller, Glen
Williams, Albert William

ROSTER

234
SUSPENDED
Baxter, Hiram Dudley

FOR . NON-PAYMENT

ROSTER
OF

DUES:

Bender, George Lee
Wood, William Joseph

SUSPENDED FOH UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Hare, Darrell Allen
DIED:
Lutkey, George
Baxter, Charles Arthur
Stowell, J<°'red Willis
Busweil, William Francis
Vail, Aiken Hiller
Ferullo, David
Von Wefelsburg, Alexander Barack
Kincaid, John Evans
Woodward, Gideon Paschall

ALAMEDA LODGE, No. 167.
Centerville, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moor,
OF:FICERS:

Eugene Nathaniel Babb, Master,
Philip Austin Ellis, Chaplain,
Irvington, Cal.
Frank BenjallJin Hartman, Sen. D .•
Arthur Webster Haley, Sen. Warden, George Frasier Sullivan, !mi. Dea<;.,
Elmo Miller Grimmer, Jun. Ward., Henry Wyle Emerson, Marshal,
Petet Christian Hansen, Treasurer, James B. Chamberlain, Stewarq,
Arthur Theodore Biddle, Secretary, Eleon A. Ormsby, Steward,
Newark, Cal.
· Louis M ..Juhl, Tyler.

Ames, Alden Thayer
Anderson, Longworth S.
Babb, Eugene Nathaniel
Basler, Henry Ernest
Beebe, George A.
Biddle, Arthur Theo.
Blacow, John Robert
Blacow, Richard Deering
Blacow, Robert Adolpheus
Blair, Thomas Henry
Brewer, James Morris
Brisacker, Leo
Brown, Barton Alva
Brown, Samuel Franklin

MEMBERS:
Burt, !ames Frederick
Chamberlin, James Bayard
Cockefair, Charles Parson
Cushman, Douglass
Colby, Herbert Eugene
Crosby, Henry
Dilliard, Caleb Irwin
DixQn, Mathew William
Durham, Judge Haley
Eaton, Due Bois
Ehrman, Solomon
Ehrman, Alfred
Ellis, Phillip Austin
Eggers, Louis Herman

ICmerHon, Henry Wyle, P. M.
Mvans, Charles, P. M.
l~11rley, Newton Seymour
11'lnn, Alexander
l'11n l, William Henry
I '111 •I. Henry Darneal
l~luchor, George Cresent
tlrnnger, Farley Benjamin, P. M.
Clrau, Eclward Arnold, P. M.
llrnham, Clarence Ray
llrnham, George Edward
CJreen, Harry Beek
Cl rciiory, George L.
llrlmmer, Elmo Miller
I I 11nsen, Peter Christian
I llL!ey, Arthur Webster
llaley, William Wallace
II 111nilton, Leslie Mab
llaro, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
II ell wig, George Peter
llurMr, Charles Frederick
lluxley, Thomas Charles, P. M.
I tmert, Edwin Julius
Irvine, Robert
,r1u~kson, Harry William
Jacobus, Julian Edgar
l11hl, Louis Martin
I\ lentz, Edward Blaine
l\lrk, Willard Bruff
J,nng, Ernest George
1,ebrecht, Adolph
1,owrie, John Charles Frederick
May, Henry
McLeod, James M.
M cKeown, James

McKenna, Fergus
Mills, James H.
Morrison, Perry
Mortimer, Frank
Mowry, Joseph Cheney
Norris, Albert, P. M.
Ormsby, Elon Arwin
Overacker, Charles Bernard
Patterson, Henry Hawley
Peterson, William Beadford
Plourde, Prosper
Ralph, Ivan Bernett
Richmond, Ralph Vanderpeer
Runekel, Christian
Salz, Clarence Ferdinand
· Salz, Sigmund
Satterthwait, Abbott, P. M.
Silva, Manuel Francisco
Snyder, William Harrison
Southwick, Oliver Lyman, P. M.
Spencer, Jamee Albert
Stanley, James
Stormer, Fred Arly
Sullivan, George Frazier
Symon, James Charles
Vollmer, Rudolph, P. M.
Walton, George Edward Par11one
Walton, John Franklin
Werner, Edward Peter
Whipple, Edwin, P. M.
Whipple, Jame11 Ray
Whitfield, Albert Arthur
Williams, George Henry
Wills, Clarence A .
Wright, George Whitfield, P. M. -98

WITHDRAWN:
Terril, John Byron
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cook, Arthur G.
Higley, Seward Oliver
f 'hriMtensen, Andrew
lln lrnr, Elisa W.

llnrry, William
I1111g, William

235

DIED:
Nicholson, John Alexander
Smith, Walter Roderick

236

ROSTER
ROSTER

REDWOOD CITY LODGE, No. 168. ·
Redwood City, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding .Fmi Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Ellis Ensor, Master,
David Montgomery Crabtree, Chap.,
Redwood City, Cal.
William Henry Kelso, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Valentine Hoenck, Sen. W ., Otis Mills Carrington, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. William McNulty, Jun. Ward., James Ray Rogers, Marshal,
Ludwig Philip Behrens, Treasurer, George Henry Leary, Steward,
John Edward Harris, Secretary,
Charles Jacobus, Steward,
Box 12, Redwood City, Cal.
John Watkin Glennan, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andreen, Nils Andy.
Fox, Edwin Benton
Fox, Philip Benton
Bacon, Willard Wilson
Baird, Earl Demorest
Fulton, Albert Leonidas
Baldwin, George Page
Gillespie, James
Barrett, Richard Watts
Glennan, John Watkin
Goodspeed, Isaac Roscoe
Bartlett, Frank Tabor
Bassetti, Antonio
Harris, John Edward
Baseler, Henry
Beeger, Carl Christian
Behrens, Ludwig Philip
Hayward, Clarence Decatur
Headley, William
Blomquist, Alfred George
Boicelli, Daniel
Heiner, Harold Otto
Heiner, Lawrence Andrew
Boicelli, Victor
Hexner, Louis
Breeze, James Pattison
Brown, Robert
Hextrom, Charles August
Carrington, Otis Mills
Heydenfeldt, Thomas O., P. M.
Chamberlain, P. Peregreen, P. M.
Hillebrand, Henry, P. M.
Chilcott, Richard Frederic, P. M. Hoenck, Edward H. V.
Hoffman, Carl Paul M.
Cloud, Roy Walter, P. M.
Hol<iAn, Georqe Walcott
Conover, John Simpson
Holmquist, Rudolph Carl
Cook, Alonzo
Jacobus, Charles
Cowgill, John Emory
Crowe, James
Joyce, William Holland
Kelso, William Henry
Dearborn, Harry. Emmons
Kempster, James William H.
Dearborn, Henry
Dobbe!, Charles Henry Louis
Kreiss, George Augustus
Einstein, Gabriel
Landscheit, Charles George, P. M.
Elvin, Ferdinand
Leary, George Henry
Emmett, Walter Alfred
Lipp, William Henry
Ensor, James Ellis
Look, William Clarence

I.owe, Julius William, P. M.
Mansfield, Joel Henry
MacBain, John
Marcus, Henry
Mathiesen, Bob
McCrea, Samuel Pressley
McKenzie, Donald
McNair, John
McNulty, George William
McPherson, John Andrew
Muller, Carl
Moberry, Leonard Albert
Mosher, Albert Hiram
Mnrray, Kenneth Sinclair
Neal, George Albert
Neal, Malcolm Allen
Nelson, John Arvid
Neuman, James Vincent
Nicholson, Ludvig
Nielson, Knud Kristian
Orton, Wellington Eugene
Otzen, Lorenz
Peers, Alex.
Pipkin, James Marion
Pipkin, William Henry
Barstow, William Addison
!;hrewsbury, William Arthur

237

Poole, John
Poole, John Wesley, P. M.
Ralston, John Thurston
Ramey, William Henry
Ramsay, Thomas Henry
Rice, Thomas Clark
Rich, Charles Robert
Robertson, Charles David
Rogers, James Jay
Rohr, Barthold Charles
Ross, George Carlos
Ross, Joseph Louis
Rumbo!, Richard Foyster
Ryan, Alexander
Saun lers, Benjamin Rankin
Sebastiana, Salvatore
Steinberger, Henry
Stevenson, Howard Griffith
Stewart, William Baker
Swanson, Carl
Swart, Franklin
Towne, Frank Kendall, P. M.
Werder, Ernest Henry, P . M.
Williams, Donald Warren
Yount, George Henry
-108

WITHDRAWN:
West, George Elmer
Wisnom, John

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Eckhart, Charles Harmon
Locklin, Curtis Brockway
Lowe, Albert Louis
DIED:
Winkler, John Karl Gottlob

ROSTER

238

MISSION LODGE, No. 169.
San FTancisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Wednesday in each mont:i
2668 Mission Street.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Ingles Janes, Sen. DeacoM,
John Hazlett, Master,
Lew Edward Wallace, Jun. Deacon1
1744 Bryant Street.
William Henry Worden, Marshal,
Otto Louis Sues, Senior Warden,
Eugene Bartlet Hallett, Jun. Ward., Henry James Ttowbridge, Stewara~
Ashley Rhines Farless, Steward,
George William Lunt, Treasurer,
·
Jam~s Erlward Parmelee, Tyler.
Frank Wesley Smith, Secretary,
2668 Mission Street.
Aikins, Thomas George
Aitchison, William John
Allan, Robert Edward, P. M.
Allan, Thomas John
Allen, Arthur Dencel
Allen, Richard Spicer, P. M.
Allen, Waldo Frederick
Allen, William James
Amy, Winfield Scott
Anderson, Charles Rudolph
Anderson, Edward Walter
Anderson, Elmer Warner
Anderson, Isaac
Anderson, Jon a than
An.drews, John
Andrews, Marine Axel
Antonsen, Hans
Arata, Mario Frank
Arnberger, Richard Claus
Arnold, Harry Brown
Arthur, James Lemuel
Astrup, Hagen Frederick
Atkinson, George Frederick ·
Ayres, William Wallace
Badgley, Gilbert Benjamin
Badgley, Gilbert Lawson
Ball, Thaddeus
Ballinger, Fred Sessions

MEMBERS:
Barker, Joseph
Barlow, William George
Barnes, William Wallace
Barz, Frederick Carl
Basney, Virgil Fyler
Bates, William Edwin
Bean, Herbert David
Beatty, Edwin .R obert
Becht, George Joseph
Beck, Adam
Becker, George Ernest
Beede, Stephen McDonald
Beicke, Louis John Emil
Bemiss, Lincoln Edward
Benedict, Amoe William
Benedict, Charles Edward
Benedict, James Seymour
Benner, Emerson Ozias
Bennett, .John Joseph
Berg, George Charles
Berg, Isaac
Berger, William Joseph
Berry, George Marion
Bettancourt, John Franklin
Beverly, Edward Howard
Bigelow, Edwin Wells
Billings, David Wm.
Bishop, Frank Bryant

ROSTER
lll11hop, Sherman Augustus, P. M,
llltley, Frank William
lllack, Edwin Crane
ltlack, Will1am
lllackburn, William Henry
IUoomer , Samuel Merritt
11,, Ile, Harry William
I I· ·I· I•. William Charles
llnlnn<ler, Louis Phillip, Jr.
llulflng, Arthur John
llova<lt, William
lloylcs, Edgar Amos
lloysen, Edward Constantine
llrace, Nathan
llrngg, Frank
Urnntlon, Frederick Duke
llrnndtjen, John Charles
llrann, Harry Harding
llrny, Chester Arthur
llrH,V, Nelson Hudison
llrcitenstein, Edmund Ed. Wm.
llrf'wer, Frederick Adolph
llr11wer, Frederick Irving
llrl<>rle;v, William Henry
llrh:nrd, Maxime John
llroncl, Eel ward .James
llror.kmann, George Robert
llrockmann, Henry Frederick Wm.
llroclok, Robert Tuch
Urookover, Joseph Cochran
llrooks, Alpheus Baxter
llrooks, Orion
llrown, Clive Augustus
llrown, Daniel Davis
llrown, Herbert· Wilis
llrowne, Robert Daniel
llruns, Henry Frederick
llunker, Charles Dimmock
llunker, Henry Chase, P. M .
llnrg, Carl Henry
Uurgess, Cornelius Simmonds
llurgess, Joseph Edward
llurgren, Arthur William
llnrness, John Elder
Hnrness, Robert Duke

Burroughs, Charles Rickertson
Butler, Alfred John
Butler, John Alfred
Butte, Paul Charles ·
Butterfield, William Abram
Button, Asa Phineas
Cadwallader, Rawlins
Cal~well, George Herbert
Caldwell, George Phillips
Cameron, Dudley Alfred
Campbell, Donald R.
Campbell, John Malcolm
Cardinell, John Douglass
Carnall, Henry
Carren, John Thomas
Curson, Edwin Beatty
Center, Hugh
Chapin, George Edward
Chapman, Robert Henry
Chatham, William
Chorley, Ross Robertson
Christenson, Andrew, P. M.
Christian, James Allen
Christiansen, Ernst Wm. Charles
Christiansen, Jens
Clare, Robert Moffitt, P . M.
Clark, Alfred
Clark, Frank Emerson
Clark, Joseph Edmund
Clark, Milton Sutton
Cla"Ussen, Gustave Frederick
Clay, Wade Hampton
Clough, Charles Andres
Cobb, William Henry, P. M.
Coburn, Charles Edward
Coffin, Dewey
Coiner, Oscar Christian
Coles, Harrison Palmer
Collins, Thomas Cahall
Condon, Michael Daniel
Conway, George
Cook, Donald
Coo.ke, Archibald
Cooper, Arthur William
Cooper, Herbert Henry

240
Cordes, William Frederick
Corrie, Ruby Ray
Coulter, Robert Ashford
Couper, Edgar Ward
Courtright, William Leander
Cousins, Richard Joseph
Cox, John Hadden
Cox, Palmer, P. M.
Creigh, Edward Norton
Crichton, John Lithgow
Crim, William Henry, Jr.
Cropley, Marshall Freeman
Crosett, Edward Franklin, P. M.
Cruden, John
Curnow, George Livingston
Currie, John Stewart
Currie, Robert, Jr.
Curtis, John Morrison
Cuthbertson, George Washington
Daggett, Harry Mayhew
Daly, John Donald
Daly, Samuel Joseph
Damuth, Wilbur Civill
Danielson, Gustaf
Davenport, Reginald Arthur
Davies, David Caradoc
Davies, Thomas ·Abraham
Davis, Carlton Newman
Davison, William Henry
Day, Charles Austin, P. M.
Day, Donald William
Day, Henry Lucas
Daywalt, George Washington
Dean, Corbet George
Dean, Francis
Deemer, John Franklin, P. M.
De Guerre, Wade Hampton
De Langton, George HanJy
DeLano, Willie Winfry
Dentz, Eugene Nicholas
Dethlefsen, Nicolai Frie•lrich
Dettmers, George
Diserens, Frederick
Dodd, Milton Franklin
Dodd, Robert William

ROSTER
Dominguez, Richard Arthur
Donaldson, Robert
Dorsey, Gilbert Maxwell
Dorward, George Dunn
Douglass, William
Dowle, William Godfrey
Doyle, Charles Davis
Draffin, William Henry
Driefer, Conrad Ludolf
Dunbar, Hubbard Foster
Duncan, James Hepburn
Duncan, Robert L.
Duperu, William Alphonsll
Dyer, Emerson Crocker .
Dyer, Richard William
Eastman, Edward Ferry
Eastman, George Mason
Eastwood, Charles Archibald
Eaton, John William, P. M.
Ede, William
Edwards, John Henry
Edwards, William
Efford, Robert James
Elam, Grover Cleveland
Elam, Thomas •
Elder, Robert
Ellinger, Charles Georg Gustaf
Ellis, Arthur Clarence
Emmons, Joseph Engle
English, George Edward
English, John Frane;.,
Ettler, John Adolph
Evans, Chester Hepburn
Evans, Chester Willard
Evans, George Herbert
Ewen, Chester William
Fahrenholz, Frederick William
Fairchild, Willard Wilson
Fairfield, Marshall
Fairfield, Marshall Joseph
Falconer, John
Falkenstein, Ch.ristian Jar.oh
Farless, Ashley Rhines
Farrell, William
Fell, Thomas

ROSTER
l~orrler, George Washington
retter, Frank Cu!in
rlaok, James Maurice
rtaok, William Malen
r tnth, John Henry
rarbea, Theodore Henry
Jorct, William
forrut, ~rtwin
rrorrest, Thomas Wint Weir
rnrrl'Rt, William Irwin
rnr"yth, Thomas Walter
l"nrtunc, James Alexander
l'o11ey, Harry Edwin
ro1ter, George Lewis
rrahm, Claus
Ji'rnhm, Henry Thomas
Ji'rnntz, Clar.ence Sherman
rrectericks, William Godfrey
rrench, Edward James
rreyermuth, Otto George
l'r!cke, John William
flaie, Charles Leslie
flalnee, Rufus Henry
flallagher, Robert Ferra!
IJ11rdlner, Alexander Smith
llardner, Fredric Archie
llatley, John
flatley, Richard Henry
" ""· William Stokes
tlt1l1ton, H o!lister
flenesy, Walter Alexander
lfentle, William Frederick
R1111rge, Anson Northrup
tleorge, Clarence Farmer
lfeorge, William Henry
lft1ford, Henry Clay
ltlb1on, William Walker
!filbert, Ernest Joseph
lftlbert, Frank L.
llllley, Curtiss Noble
IJll1on, John Edward
lllnty, Eugene Mabury
lllt1ham, Charles
fllndwin, Geo. Archer
lfoode, Walter Thomas

16

2-H

Goodfellow, Summerfield Isaiah
Goodwin, Wm. Lincoln
Gordon, Robert
Gosliner, Harry Benjamin
Graf, Fredric Oscar
Granicher, Walter August Herman
Grantland, John
Gray, James Alfred
Green, Morris
Greenfield, Charles Edward
Greenwood, Joseph Theo.
Gregg, William Stopher
Griffith, William
Grotefend, Charles William
Gummow, Leon LeRoy
Gunderson, Thomas
Gunn, Alfred Scott
Gunnison, Albert Warren
Gunnison, Frank Sawyer
Haight, Louis Montrose
Haines, Samuel Newell
Hale, Charles Everett
Hale, Charles Rector
Hale, Frank Orrin
Halket, William Duncan
Hall, Henry, P. M.
Hall, James Robert
Hallett, Eugene Bartlet
Hallgren, Fred
Hallquist, Philip
Halsted, John Bernard
Haman, Henry
Hambly, Harry Bishop
Hammer, Lars John
Hansell, Calvin Emerick
Hansen, Christian Winchler
Hansen, Edward Paul
Hansen, George
Hansen, Theodore Peter
Hanson, George Franklin
Hargraves, Herbert Ellery
Harper, Deliph Russell
HnITies, .Tnme~
Haslehurst , William Wallare
Hatch, Francis Oliver

242
Hatch, Herbert Locy
Haughton, John William
llaussler, Gustavus Adolphus
Hawksley, AlexandEr
Hayselden, Percy James
Hazlett, James
Hazlett, John
Headrick, Andrew J ohnsou
Heatlie, William Charles
Hedges, Joseph Wharton
Hellwig, Karl Frederick ff. C.
Hemminga, Harvey John
Henn, Theodore E dwin
Henry, Robert Allan
Hepburn, John
Herring, Richard, P. M.
Hesse, Edwin Ellsworth
Hetzer, Henry August
Hickie, Peter William
Hicfield, Alfred Thomas
Higgins, Robert
Hildebrand, William Charles
Hilder, Louis
Hill, William
Hillman, John Edward
Hillman, John Reuben, P . M.
Hilton, Franklin Cha rles
Hincelot, Stanley F erdinand
Hind, George Urwin
Hitzeroth, Lorenz Devenport
Hoag, Jonathan Kittridge
Hock, Henry
Hock, Henry Tobias
Hoertkorn, Charles Albert
Hohfeld, Clarence Henry
Holladay, Terry Bruness
Holland, Frank Stuart
Holloway, Albert Eugene
Holmes, Clarence Rawson
Holton, Albert Marion
Hooper, John Milton
Hopkins, John Louis
Horton, Charles Coates
H ougaard, William Frederick
Howe, William Dikeman

ROSTER
Howell, Josiah Rowland
Hoyle, Albert
Hulse, David Andrew
Hummel, George William
Hursh, Loren Leigh
Hursh, Ray Leslie
Hurst, :Frederick Joseph
Husar, Christian
·
Huesey, Wallace Maxwell
Hutt, Harry John
Ingersoll, John Francis
Inman, Thomas George.
Ireland, Elvie Levan
Ireland, Thomas Wilson
Irwin, Charles Milton
Jacks, Henry
Jackson, Charles Hooper
Jackson, John Quincy
Jager, George
Jager, Will Phillip
Jagger, Henry Corbett
Jamieson, Andrew
Janes, Thomas Inglis
Janes, William Henry
Jenkins, William McDoDRld
Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Thorwrtld
Johnson, Edward Charles
J ohnson, Lucian Field
Johnson, Olaf
Johnston, George
Johnston, George Alexander
.Johnston, John Harvey
Jones, Edward Thomas
Jones, Frederick Charles
Jones, Hu
Jones, Jo~n Bates
Jones, John Edmund
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Osgood Keener
.Tones, Samuel A.
.Tones, Thomas
Jones, William Franklin
.Tones, William Gustus
Jordan, William Henry

ROSTER
Joie, Ricardo Juan
.luel, Adolph Oliver
l\agc, Henry Robert
l<anzee, Arthur
l<anzee, Austin
Keller, James Edwin
l<ellie, Charles
l\enne, Frank George
l<ern, Louis Adolph
l<trn, Raymond Lewis
l<err, Charles
ICessen, James Morton
Koyser, Paul
l\eyston, James Woods
l\<iyston, J ames Woode, Jr.
l<C1yston, Samuel Albert
l\eyston, William Donald
((Jght, Da vid Mooreland
I\ Ill gore, E dwin Read
l\lllgore, Robert Read
l<l ng, Dennis Wyckoff
((lug, John Watt
((Ing, William Riddick
l\i ngsland, George Robert
Kinnear , Charles Albeft
I\ Irby, Maxwell
IClein, J ohn Mathias
!<lose, Emil Adolph
l\neass, Edward Daniel
Konrad, Joseph Leopold
Xornbcck, Christian Hansen
l\oslrnitzki , J ohn Fredorick Charis
Kreisel, Edward
Kress, Augustus Herman
I< rug, P eter John
l<ruse, L ouis Frank
Kuhl, Ma x John
Kuhl, William Frederick
Kyle, Edwi n L ouis
l,amont, William
I.and, George Burton
I.ant>, Mark Graham
l,nng, Austin Wenzlick
(,nnge, E rn est Adolph
l11nglois, Francis Bernard

Larimer, Elmer Forrest
Larsen, Christian Thorwald
Larsen, Theodor
·
Lawrence, James
Leider, Albert Christian Fied 'k
Leland, Harry E verrett, P. M.
Levensaler, Joseph Gillchrest
Lewis, Charles Francisca
Libby, Charles Frederic, P. M.
Lieb, Henry Melville
Liebenow, Herman Carl
Linderman, Samuel Williard
Lindley, William Purdy
Lindsey, Douglas
Lindstrom, John Francis
Little, Archibald Dunlap
Lord, Frank
Lothrop, Arthur Baxter
Love, Charles Allen
Lowrie, John Morrison
Lowry, Herbert Gay
Luce, John Francis
Luce, Samuel Andrew
L undin, Anders
L unt, George William, P. M.
Lunt, William Moore
Lutley, Edward
Lyon, Walter Seth
MacDonald, Lincoln Duncan
Mackcnrde, Allister
Madden, E1lwa.rd Ernest
Madsen, Jens Antoni
Malcomson, Thomas
Mangelsdorf, Willy
Mann, Patrick James
Mansfield, Charles
Manuel, George Frederick
Marchant, Herbert Ewart
Marsh, John Alfred
Marshall, Charles
Marston, Frank Wheeler
Martin, Clifford Camm
Martin, George Wilbur
Martin, James L ytle
Mnrtin, Samuel

2i3

244

Marx, Otto Frederick
Mason, Frank .
Mathews, George Monroe
Mathis, Jacob Lenhardt
Mattern, Frank Herman
Mattern, Henry John
Matthews, Willie S.
Mau, Charles Albert
Maundrell, Harry
Maundrell, Harold Hugh
Maundrell, Malcolm Daniel
Maurer, William Center
May, Fulton Hugh
McAllister, Richard Victor
McCall, William
McCarty, James
McClinton, Myron Giles
McCook, James
McCormick, William Whipple
McCoy, Frank Edwin
McCracken, John Wesley
McDaniel, William Henry
McDonald, John Glen
McDonald, Wallace Sinclair
McGilvray, John Duff, Jr.
McGregor, William
Mcintosh, John Frazer
McKee, Charles Dunlap
McKenzie, Albert William
McKenzie, Colin Mortimer
McKenzie, Wesley
McKillop, William John
McKnew, Henry Lee
McLachlan, Thomas Mitchell
McLagan, Charles
McLaren, Archibald Rowan
McNair, Andrew
McNoble, Emery Lewis
Meaney, Lewis Joseph
Meaney, Lewis Philip
Mecredy, Frederick Albert
Mecredy, John
Melendy, Harry Whaites
Mennie, Alexander
Meroy, Edward Thomas

ROSTER
Miller, John Alexander
Miller, John Edward Adolphus
Miller, John Thompson
Miller, John Wallace
}.;1iller, Oscar Ewell
Miller, Robert Notman
Miller, William ( 1)
Miller, William (2)
Mirk, Thomas
Mitchell, William lfrnr.v
Mobbs, Robert Byron G.
Mocine, John Calvin
Moenning, Milton Gunther
Mohr, Henry Anton
Moore, John Cutler
Moore, William Hiland
Moore, William Wallace, P. M.
Moran, Allan Garfield
M-0rgan, Dayton H enry
Mori, Emille Daniel
Morton, Charles Caylor
Mothander, John Johnson
Morton, Henry Elringtoii
Moulthrop, Howland King
Moulthrop, Willy Howard
Muller, George Edward
Munck, Charles Emil
Munro, Henry
Munroe, Theodore Francis
Murray, Oliver Perry
Murray, Percy Victor
Mu·rray, Robert
Mnrray, Walter Charles
Murray, Warren Edwards
Musgrave, Henry John
Nahhas, Fred
Neal, William
Nelson, Henry Severen
Nelson, John Archibald
Nelson, Louis
Nelson, Nels Lawrence
Newman, Jerome
Nicol, Walter Dair
Nicolai, Charles John
Nielsen, Niels Andersen

ROSTER
Nllaon, Brown Oscar
Norris, Joseph Kenny
Nnhrenberg, Martin Jurgen
Nutter, Joseph Lyman
I •'Bl'ien , William Lawrenee
Oehne, Frederick
Oeverndiek, Frederick Charles
Oiden, Benjamin Franklin
Oiden, Charles Roy
Oiclen, George Henry
0 'Keef e, Jeremiah
Ollrich, John Frederick
Olsen, J ohn Jacobsen
Olsen, John Jacobsen, Jr.
1)l1en, William Christensen
Olaon, John
Onslow, Frank
Or1\way, William Chase, P. M.
01born, Wilfred John
•)1good, Henry Benjamin
Owen, William Lunt
Putlget t, William Thomas
Page, J. Murray
Pnlmer, J ohn Henry
Park, Alex. Dewar
l'nrk, William Henry
Parmelee, Chauncey Albertu11
l'nrmelee, James Edward
Paterson, William
l'atten, Henry
11atterson, George William Hill
l'a.yne, Noah
l'eabody, Edward
Peabody, Robert Austin
l'eck, Carl Wilhelm
11eck, Walter Lawrence
11eltret, Peter Glode
11ennington, Thomas Edwin
11ercival, Elijah
11eriam, Charles J ames
l~erki ns, George Russell
11erkins, Raymond Pearson
l'erry, John
Perry, John Wilson
11etersen, Hans

Petersen, Hans Lausten
Petersen, Niels Mason
Peterson, Andrew
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Pettersen, Axel Hagbarth
Pfae:ffle, Henry Gottlieb
Pfingst, Ferdinand Louie
Phelps, George Wesley
Philip, Adrian Sickles, P. M.
Phillips, George Joseph
Phillips, William
Pierson, Bernhard
Pinkerton, Samuel
Piper, Stephen Livingston
Plath, Hans
Poar, Charles Burnett
Poch, Charles Emil
.Pope, James Bond
Porter, George Keith
Potter, Edwin Segsworth
Powell, Frank Vinton
Prahl, Gustave Joseph
Pratt, Charles Henry Sinclair
P rice, Ross 0 'Brien
Prince, Henry Gilman
Prior, John Stanley
Quellmalz, Fred
Quinlan, James Henry
Read, Richard Arthur
Read, William James
Reed, Walter Norman
Reich, Frederick William
Reid, Archibald
Reid, John Miller
Reid, William Henry
Reigle, Henry Herfcrt
Reinecke, Alfred Walter
Renwick, Myron Hatch, P. M.
Richardson, Clifton Page
Rickard, Richard Penrose
Robert, Chesley John
Roberts, Marshall Callow11.~
Roberts, Oliver
Robinson, George
Robinson, Seymour Heman

245

246

ROSTER

ROSTER

Rodecker, Elias, P. M.
Rogers, William Clement
Rogers, Charles Sumner
Rolph, Ronald Taylor
Rosich, Nicholas Charles
Rosland, Oscar Paulsen
Ruckstell, John Rudolph
Rudy, Benjamin Mylin
Saffold, Ray Phillips
Sanborn, Irving Howard
Saul, Eugene Carroll
Saunders, Frederick
Sawdon, Thomas Thompson
Sayles, Harry Albert
Schmitt, Henry Clay
Schott, Carl Conrad
Schrader, Edwin William
Schrader, Otto
f:ichramm, Carl Christopher F.
Schulz, Paul
Schwarzmann, Ed. Gustave
S11ott, Edwin George
Scott, George Booth
Sears, Harry Dickson
Seaver, Fred Dan
Seel, Ernest
Severance, Isaac Hillman
Sewell, Daniel Robert
Shafer, Frank Ellsworth
Shaver, Hamilton Elijah
Shephard, Bertram Charles
Shephard, Bertram Holmes Doug.
Shephard, Vernon Charles D.
Siemers, John Diedrich
Sigler, John D.
Silovich, John
Silvia, Michael
Siskron, Charles Alfred
Smith, David Charles
Smith, Frank Joseph
Smith, Frank Wesley
Smith, Isaac Henry
Smith, James (1)
Smith, James (2)
Smith, William Alvord

Smith, William Irving
Smith, William Thomas
Snell, ·Ji'rank Scott
Somers, Frank Alton
Spa<loni, .Joseph
Spear, Lewis Eugene
Spencer, Alex.
Starbird, Ralph
Stark, Charles
Statham, William Mathe\'v
Steedman, John Arkley
Steere, Jesse Edmund
Steinmann, Frederick Allolph
Stephenson, William
Stevenson, John
Stewart, Charles Enoc.h
Ste~·11.rt, .James Emsley
Stewart, Otho
Stewart, William Harley
Stidston, Archibald Wakeharr.
Stile, Henry David
Stone, John Thomas
Stone, Wilbert H.
Strickler, John Conrad
Strickler, William Conrad
Sturgess, Charles William
Sues, Otto Louis
Sullivan, William Charles
Summerhayes, William Ruggles
Swenson, John Augustus
Sykes, Frank Centennius
Tabrett, Henry Charles
Taylor, Charles Herbert
Taylor, Fred William
Taylor, George Howes
Taylor, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Terbush, George Finchly
Theller, George Platt
Thomas, Arthur Frederick
Thomas, Edward Henry
Thomas, Frederick G.
Thomas, Henry Jerome
Thomas, Philip Matson
Thompson, Bernard
Thompson, Charles Jefkins

Thompson, Cranch
Thompson, George
'rhompson, Hans
'l'hompson, John, P. M.
Thompson, Thornton
Thompson, Vernon Clifford
'rhompson, Wm. Henry
Thomsen, Einar Tonnessen
Thomsen, Oscar Ludwig
Thomson, Jam es Milo
Thomson, Samuel Mehaffy
Thorp, Clement Barton
'l'horp, Henry Wal:iter
'l'hrall, Frank Hurshall, P. M.
'l'letje, Ernest Henry
'rletjen, John Edward
'! imbrell, John Benjamin
Tltchwortb, Charles Canfield
Todd.• Oliver Julian
'l'olley, William Edward
Treadwell, Edward Fran<Jis
Trevivick, William George
Trowbridge, Henry James
Troyer, Roderic Arthur
Truman, Irwin Joseph, Jr.
Tucker, Edwin War-.en, P. M.
Tucker, Edwin W11.rr1>n, Jr.
Tnrbitt, William Alexander
Turnbull, Albert Carlyle
•ryler, Thomas
Vanatta, Frank Tuller
Van Buren, George Martin
Van Orden, Charles Howard
Vnn Orden, George Newins
Varney, Frank Hastings
Varney, John Warner, Jr.
Varney, Kit Roberts
Vecki, Marion
Voight, George Fritz
Vonatb, Henry Albert
Von W erthern, Henry
Voorhies, Cyrus Firman
Voorhies, Harry
Voy, Winfield Scott
Wagner, Adam, Jr.

Wagner, Edwarll I,udwig
Wag~taff, Denman Sully
Wahl, Robert Gottfried
Waldau, Christian
Wallace, Albert William
Wallace, Lew Edwanl
Wallace, Robert
Wallace, William
Walter, Henry
Warren, Frederick Meh·ille
Watson, John Gibson
Wataon, Sage
Watson, Sidney
Watson, William Walter
Weaver, Hammond Shipley
Web~tcr, George Albert
Weigel, Joel
Welc~, Herbert Warren
Weld, Charles Wallace
Wellington, George Henry
Welton, John William
West, George Washington
West, John
West, John Charles
West, Joseph Daniel
Westaway, William Charl~s
Weston, John Arthur
Westwater, Andrew
Wetmore, William Brown
Weule,.Ernest Louis
Whitaker, George Everard
White, Arthur Erwin
White, Arthur Harry
White, Charles Harry
White, William Harrison
Whittaker, Alfred James
Whorf, Frederick Ellsworth
Whyte, Malcolm Crawford
Wiedenbeck, George
Wildenradt, Herbert Louis
Wilhelm, John Henry
Wilkins, de Winton William, P. M.
Williamson, Edwin L.
Wilson, G. Hazelton
Wilson, George Hazelton

ROSTER

248
Wilson, Henry Adams
Wilson, James Andrew, P. M.
Wilson, John
Winkel, George
Winter, Morris Jacob, Jr.
Winzler, Alfred Charles
Wobber, Herman
Wolfe, Edward
Wood, John
Woodman, Ernest Deadrick

Battelle, Ernest Leslie
Cookson, Frank Spencer
Dawson, Otto John

ROSTER

Woods, Robert
Worden, William Henry
Yearing, John Thomas
Young, .tohn James
Young, Lyman Foster
Zeise!, Louis J'ohn
Ziegler, Charles Louis
Zillmer, Adolph Louis William
Zollner, William Adolph

-885

WITHDRAWN:
Peck, Clarence Edwin
Walker, George
Wood, Homer Winfrey

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McGavran, Stephen William
Cadwell, Homer Wiswell
H ermann, Emil Arminius
Miller, Robert John
Jones, Bert Monroe
Oliver, David
McCall, Elvin Carlile
Petersen, James Albert
Raab, Frederick William

Apperson, John Alexander
Bryan, Jacob
Haughton, John
H ayes, Benjamin West
L emon, Gordon Cruickshank

DIED:
Price, William Edmond
Scommon, Meltiah Lancaster
Spinney, John Crozier ·
Toft, Christian Peder.
Wagner, John

ELK GROVE LODGE, No. 173.
Elk Grove, Sacramento County. .
Stat ed Meet ings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Aubrey Maurice Leavitt, Master,
Claud Duval Tribble, Sen. Deacon,
E lk Grove, Cal.
Hugh Beattie, Jun. Deacon,
Andrew Elliott, S en. Warden,
Charles Bruce Bradford, Marshal,
Stanley Robertson Gage, Jun. Ward., Thomas Lukin Conrad, Steward,
William Thomas Stephenson, Treas., J ohn Mitchell Stephenson, Steward,
George Shaw Williamson, S ecretary, Charles L. Martin, Tyler.
·
Elk Grove, Cal.

249

MEMBERS:
I JI tucker, George Henry
Leavitt, Albert Fletcher
\llturker, John Ray
Mahone, Robert Henry
ll11rry, Edmund Edward
Martin, Clarence L.
lleattie, Hugh
McConnell, Thaddeus Curtis
lloothe, Newton
McKee, James Anderson
llra<lford, George Bruce, P. M.
Mealer, Thomas Jefferson
llradford, Hugh Barr, P. M.
Messenger, Richard
llradford, Pearley Kilbourn, P. M. Morse, Elbert Oscar
llradford, William Barton
Owens, Wm. Eben
ltr11rlford, Charles Bruce, P. M.
Powell, James C.
l)olftng, Claud Courtney
Reid, Argus Mcintyre
I Jonrad, Thomas L .
Reith, J esse L ee, P. M.
tlooper, Cha rles Homer
Richards, John Lincoln
lllllnrd, Paul Alonzo
Rowley, Eugene
Mhrhardt, Frederick William
Runyon, William Smith
Flhrhardt, Henry Lester
Russell, Joseph
l1llllott, Andrew
Smith, Gideon Henry
!Clllott, Christopher Adam, P. N:.
Springstead~Ernest Willard, P. M.
Millott, J ohn
Stephenson, Igal K ennedy
i'o~ter, Willia m E.
Stephenson, John Mitchell
Freeman, Isaac Lake, P. l!ll.
Stephenson, John Nich6ls
IJage, Arthur Delos, P. M.
Stephenson, William Thomas, P. M.
Uage, Stanley Robinson
Stephenson, John Francis, P. M.
<llann, Peter
Stephenson, George Edward, P. M.
CJray, Arthur Irwin
Taverner, George Moore, P. M.
II asman, Joseph Lewis
Tribble, Claud Duval
II aviland, Phillip
Trueblood, Edward Ellsworth
llogaboom, B enjamin Baldwin
Ulman, Frederick George
lloover, Benjamin Van Zandt
Walther, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Johanson, Carl Johan
Watson, Albert Henry, P. M .
•Jordan, Daniel Obediah
Watson, George Franklin
Kelley, James Monroe
Wells, Cary Thomas
l\orn, Joseph, P. M.
We~terberg, Nels Peter
f,ewis, Edmund William
Williamson, George Shaw
J,elmback, John Herbert
Yenger, William Henry
f,eavitt, Aubrey Maurice
-71
WITHDRAWN:
Stark,· Garret William
DIED:
Herbert, Louis

ROSTER

250

DRYTOWN LODGE, No. 174
Drytown, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Trevor Weston, Master,
Drytown, Cal.
Charles Henry Shields, Sen. Ward.,
Claude Wilson, Jun. Wardtn,
Moise Roos, Treasurer,
Allen McWayne, Secretary,
Drytown, Cal.

Bawden, Thomas P.
Bo, Guisseppi
Buskin, William J.
Catto, Frank
Dach, Arthur
Eudey, John
Evans, Robert
Hinkson, John Milton, P. M.
Honeyohurch, Thomas
Jennings, Geol'ge Choat
Lawenthal, Julius
LeMoin, Fred Butler, P. M.

John Milton Hinkson, Chaplain,
George Leslie Lynch, Sen. Deaco"•
Thomas Silva, Junior Deacon,
Chas. Harrison Marchand, Marshal,
Thomas Honeychurch, Steward,
.Frank Catto, Steward,
Guisseppi Bo, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Lynch, George Leslie. P. M.
Marchand, Charles Harris,•n, P. M.
McWayne, Allen Lee
Ralph, Joseph Henry
Roos, Moise, P. M.
Shields, Charles Henry
Silva, Thomas
Smith, John G.
Tiffany, Edward Vestor
Weston, Trevor, P. M.
Weymoi:.th, Wilbur Shadrach
Wilson, Claude, P. M.
-24

WITHDRAWN:
Moore, James H .

ANTIOCH LODGE, No. 175·
Antioch, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Lennan Benton Brewster, Master,
Henry Fuller Beede, Chaplain,
Antioch, Cal.
Geo. Oliver Kennerly, S en. Deacon,
Harry McNulty Beede, Sen. Warden, Charles Jay Bullock, Jun. Deacon,
Robert Elmes Crawford, Jun. Ward., Charles S. Cunningham, Marshal,
Robert Harkinson, Treasurer,
Geo. Benjamin Marshall, Steward,
R. V. Davis, Secretary,
Clarence Wiqfield McCay, Steward,
Antioch, .Cal.
James Riley Glass, Tyler.

ROSTER
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Joshua Plummer, I, M.
Jongeneel, Martin
Anderson, Oscar
Jones, Benjamin Roy
Baker, Josiah Rio, P. M.
Joslin, Arba Vandenberg
Heecle, Charles Frank Tyler
Joslin, Royal Tregea
Beede, Harry McNulty
Jost, Frederick
Beede, Henry ~'uller, P. M.
Keeney, Collins Woodruff
Beede, Leroy Wemple
J>..euer, John
Beede, Ralph Merrill, P. M.
Kennerly, George Oliver
Belshaw, William Walter
Kent, Harry Wallace
Bermingham, Samuel
Klengel, Otto Emil, P. M.
Honslett, Jacob A.
Kuys, Andreas Theo.
Brewster, Lennan Benton
Livingston, Frank William
Brown, Bruce Forrester
Lomax, William Benoni
Brown, Murray Grant
Maupin, Lan
Bruce, William Elmer
McKellips, Stephen Horace
Carter, James, P. M.
McPherson, Roland Thomas
Clark, Charles Lester
Mead, Louis Durant
Clark, George Hudger
Montgomery, Curtis Franklin
Ularke, Edwin Gilding
Moore, Leroy Wilburn, P. M.
Cleaves, Steven Chase
Moore, Walter Shelby, P. M.
Oollis, William Arthur
Murphy, William Green
Connell, James Johnson
Nasan, James Edward
Cox, John Thomas, P. M.
Newman, Adolph
Nicholls, Joseph Robert Vincent
Crawford, Robert Elmer
Nifforous, Dimitrios
Cull, John Augustine
Offermann, William Henry
DeWitt, John Wallace
Durham, Lee Bartlett Holt
Peters, Frederick William, Jr.
Ellis, James Wardrobe
Peterson, Oscar Amil
l•'lood, Fred Howard
Rapp, Edward Percy
~'oden, Cyrel
Rattan, Frank
Franks, Frederick Clarence
Rogers, Orlando Newton
Rother, Frederick Garlip
Fraser, Samuel George
Smith, George Wallace
Glass, Jamee Riley
South, William Richard
Ilamlin, Marshnll Calvin
Steele, Sumner
Harkinson, John Lincoln
Story, Walter
Harkinson, Robert, P. M.
Hartley, Anderson Corbin, P. M.
Stubbs, Willian1 Glascott
Trythall, John Henry, P. M.
Hay, William Edgar
Uren, William
Hazlett, James
Veale, Richard Reines
llooper, Frank Joi;eph
Wear, James Renwick
Horr, Charles Perry
Hutchison, JQhn David
.west, .Jacob Hial
,Jacobs, Morris Harris
Wiechring, Gerhard John

251

252

ROSTER

ROSTER

Wightman, Joel David
Wilkening, Freuerick
Williams, James Herman
Williams, Thomas Morgan

Wood, William R.
Woolcott, Frederick Cameron
Worrell, Edwin Carter
Wright, George Creighton, P. M.
-94
WITHDRAWN:
Buchanan, William James
Lanteri, Bernard Peter
Bailey, Weaver McPherson
Lowes, John
Croxon, Warren George Hubbard
McFaul, Archie Valentine
Dunnigan, Marcus Wesley
McFaul, James Reid
Hansen, Rasmus Emil
Minaker, George A.
Hornsby, James Shirly
Minaker, '.Fred A.
Johnson, John Adolph
Reinhart, Harry A.
Jongeneel, William
Rounes, Floid Harold
Jongeneel, Albert H.
Ward, Ernest Herman
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Trythall, Ray~ond Henry
EXPELLED:
Campbell, Robert Paul

PHOENIX LODGE, No. 178.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Jury Reese, Master,
Mark Bailey Shaw, Chaplain,
1127 Spruce Street.
Wm. James Kinley, Senior Deacon,
Israel Jonas Good, Senior Warden, Harold Lewis Shaw, Jun. Deacon,
John Harold Barnum, Jun. Warden, Jesse William Curtis, Marshal,
Edward David Roberts, Treasurer Adolph Lauraine, Steward,
Josiah Wheeler 1\forgan, Secretary, Chas. Thompson McGowan, Ste~:ard,
San Bernardino, Cal.
Sydney Mee, Tyler.
·
Aldridge, David Lehigh
Allen, Jonas
Anderson, John Lee, P. M.
Aron, Max
Bailey, William Allen
Baldwin, Meh.• ille Jay
Barker, Donald McGregor

MEMBERS:
Barnum, John Harold
Barrows, Charles EU.gar
Barrows, Elmer Arthur
Barrows, George Louis
Barton, John William, P. M.
Bechtell, Daniel Snyder
Beck, Charles August ·

lleck, Webster
Beimer, Anthony
Bellamy, Herman Greer
Biggs, John C.
Blackburn, James Jackson
Blair, William Jackson
Blanchard, John Frederick
Bodkin, William George
Breene, Walter Simmons
Brooks, Charles K.
Brouse, Ernest Francis
Brown, John William
Burkhart, John B.
Carpenter, Daniel Jerome
Carpenter, Harry Griffin
Carr, John Louis
Castro, Raymond 0.
Chambers, George Robert
Chase, Herbert Harrison
Chase, Phillip James
Champion, Douglas
Clapp, Thomas John Sercome
Clark, Hiram
Clark, John Davis
Cleghorn, John
Cleghorn, Lorenzo Dow
Cole, Charles Davis
Colliver, John Adams
Colliver, Simeon Robinson
Conway, Michael
Coombs, Robert Hippsley
Coomes, Willard Edward
Costello, Patrick James
Covalt, George Wallace
Culbertson, John
Curtis, Jesse William, P. M.
Curtis, William Jesse
Daggett, Leslie Marvin
Dauphinee, Arthur Everett
Davis, Andrew
Desmond, Louis Alex.
Doran, Arthur L.
Eldridge, John Doane
E verett, Palmer Levi
Fairall, Howard L ee

Folt z, George
Foster, Alfred Brian
French, John Bourne
Ganser, Charles
Garver, Chas. Le Roy
Gates, Henry
Gaylord, George
Gibson, James Alex., P . M.
Good, Israel Jonas
Griest, John Harley
Groninger, Jacob Alton
Groninger, Warren James
Grossman, David
Ham, Harrison Howard
Harold, Andrew Douglas
Harris, Elam Cephas
Hearsh, David
Hecht, Louie Milton
Hecht, Milton Ephraim
ffoleomb, Francis Leroy, P. M.
Holmes, Ben Loan
Hook, John
Howes, Walter Byron, P. M.
Howland, Frederick Edson
Hoxsie, Orton
Huffman, Ira B.
Hulsizer, John
Hvam, Thowald
Imhoft', Ralph Eagan
.Tarvis, Peter William
Johnson, Albert
Johnson, James Hunter
Johnston, James Edwin
Jones, Griffith Isaac
Kendall, Geor2e Theo.
K ennedy, Robert James
King, Robert Calvin
Kinley, William James
Knapp, Calvin Reason
·Krebs, Orin Alfred
Lampson, Charles Wm.
Lane, Burl
Lansing, Richard St. Clair
Lapelle, Elisha Elias
Lauraine, Adolph

253

254

ROSTER

Parker, Lemuel
Leffler, Frederick
Parker, Robert Bryant
Leighton, Hal Seward
Leisenring, Frederick Gicleon
PEirkins, Charles Ernest
Perkins, Nathaniel .
LeRoy, Charles Edwin
Perry, Morgan
Livingston, Joseph Fell
Lloyd, George Washington
Phillips, Charles Siddall
Phillips, Joseph Wilbur
Lothrop, Luther Ramsdale
Pierce, George Strunk
Lunceford, Robert Bruce
Platt, Nowe Fayette
Mack, John Alex.
Poole, Charles Augustus
Mack, Royal Hegmer
Magoffin, Frank Hooker, P. M.
Poppett, Robert
Margetson, Frederick George James Porter, Lewis Edwin
Porter, William Robert
Marks, Joseph
Marshall, John Albert
Potter, Rollin
Pritchard, Howard Monroe
Mart.in, Horner Harry
Pullian, .Tames Harry
Mccarter, John
Mcconnico, Clifford Varden
Reese, George Jury
McFarland, Gail Haines
Reese, Sanford Marian
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Sr.
Reilly, ,John Armstrong
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Jr.
Rettie, George Leith
McGowan, Charles Thompson
Rhinehart, John Taylor
Mee, Sydney, P. M.
Roberts, Edward David
Metzger, Edward DeLos
Roberts, Horace Jewell
Miller, Albert Charles
Robertson, William Jay
Runkle, Milton Stephan
Miller, George
Russell, Jamee
Miller, James Blaine
Sayre, Edwin Weaver
Mills, Henry William
Schuster, John
Mills, Theo. Hardin
Schuster, William Clement
Morgan, Josiah Wheeler
Searle, Charles
Morria, Daniel Voorhees Orsman
Seay, Chester
Morse, Harvey Wells
Seeman, John J.
Mortenson, Christian Nelson
Shaw, David Albert
Mudgett, Elvin Leroy
Shaw, Harold D.
Mudgett, William
Mullen, Walter G. ·
Shaw, Mack Bailey, P. M.
Skinner, Guy Elmer
Nel~on, Arthur Pinkney
Skinner, William Wright
Newburg, Mervyn Jacobs, P. M.
Smitheram, William
Orme, Thomas Whitefield, P. M.
Smith, Newell Noble
Oster, Frank Frederick
Smith, Sanford Stephen
Ousterhout, Fred Griffith
Snow, Marcus Leonard
Oldaker, George Gad
Sprott, Thomas William
Owens, Walter Rufus
Stephens, George Milan
Page, George Webster
Stone, David P.
Palmer, Arthur
Sullivan, Wm. Daniel
Parker, John Wesley

ROSTER
' 111ons, William Fred
'l'nlmndge, Burt Wesley
'l'nlmadge, Francis LeBaron
Tnlmadge, .Tohn W. ·
'l'nlmadge, William Seymour
Taylor, Lewis Nathan
Taylor, T. Herbert
'torrass, Milford Byron, P. M.
Terry, John Yale
Theobalds, Newton Lyle
Thomas, Alfred Bennett
'thompson, Wesley
Turner, Robert Lee
Tyler, John Hugh
tTmbs, Jesse
Upson, Orin Alva
Vnn Buskirk, Melville Allen
V11n Meter, Charles Edward
V1111ghn, Rolla Vinton
Wachtell, John Kirby
nook, George H.
1>11vidson, Alonzo S.
1 ll 1111sell, Morris Bartlett

Walker, Walter Waldemar
Wall, Harry Joseph
Wallace, Albert Ernest
Waters, Byron Brewster
Wayte, Edwin .
Wiggins, William R.
Wegnori, Henry Francis
Wells, James Thomas
Wheeler, Harley Garfield
White, Eugene Lee
White, Michael Lewis
Whiteman, John Stephen
Wilson, Charles Henry
Wilson, Newton
Wilson, Thomas J e:fl'erson
Wilson, Thomas Jonathan, P. M.
Wilson, William Henry
Wol:fl', Lewin
Worn, Eugene A.
-233

WITHDRAWN:
Owens, Charles W.
Whitham, William
Yount, Charles Edwin

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
lhlitgH, Henry ,Jackson
Penhollow, Philip Albert
llnile, Smith Cook
Thompson, Victor Little
Julmson, Edward Powell
Tinkham, Stephen Hown ril
Waite, Sydney Paine

Anderson, .Tohn, Sr.
tlolliver, Jefferson Thomas

255

DIED:
Kerr, James Stewart
Krausman, Joseph

•Restored during the year.
tDegrees conferred during the year.

256

MENDOCINO LODGE, No. 179.
Mendocino, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Banker, Master,
James Melville Fisher, Chaplain,
Mendocino, Cal.
Don A. Valentine, Sen. Deacon,
John Hadley Chambers, Sen. Ward., Raymond Clay Valentine, Jun. Dea~
George Edward Bassett, Jun. Ward., William True Wallace, Jr., Marshal.
Henry Herbert Jarvis, Treasurer,
William Flemming, Steward,
John Arthur Chambers, Secretary,
Joshua Grindle, Steward,
Mendocino, Cal.
Fred Halling, Tyler.

Follneon, Nels
lobnston, Andrew Earl
.Fohnston, Alfred Rhyerson
l<ven, James Edward
I< 11ller, Willis Al:fonso
l<ont, Nathaniel Warren
l<opp, Frederick C.
l111l1hman, John
MacDonald, John
M11cDonald, John Jr.
Madsen, Mads Jargen
M11 xwell, Perley
McClellancl, James Garfielcl
M11Colgan, Denni~
M ·Elroy, John Henry
MrDonald, John Kenneth
~I 1•C1imsey, Archie Alderson
Md<:ay, Andrew
Mo<'ller, Edwarcl
Moore, Roy, P. M.
Nt•lson, Joseph Alvin, P. M.
Newman, Anclrew
N'11wman, Oscar
Norbery, Charles Antone
Openlander, William Henry
flackard, Charles Oscar
11onther, Carl Frederick
11crkins, Fred Hillman
11erry, John Edward, P. M.
1111terson, Thomas Henry
11hilbrick, John C.
11ltner, Oron Barry
11reston, Russell W.
11ullen, William
Roinertsen, Johannes Andrias
0

MEMBERS:
Dart, Joseph Howe
Ahlin, Nils Emil
Dodge, James Arthur
Allen, George
Dodge, Jefferson Lee
Anderson, George Levi
Dodge, William J. H.
Ayer, Oliver Daniel
Doig, James Muir
Ayer, Samuel Lucine.
Durst, Fred M.
Banker, Charles
Fisher, James Melville
Barker, William Henry
Flemming, William
Barnes, Allen Percival
Flood, William Henry
Bassett, George Edward
Foresyth, Ross W.
Bennett, William Henry Horace
Foster, Edwin Star
Berry, John Charles, P. M.
Fraser, James William, P. M.
Bertrand, John S.
Furlong, Arthur Thomas
Either, Lawrence Hartson
Gilkison, Melville Allen
Bodell, Robert
Gorrell, Robert
Bonta, Elvitius William
Gorrell, William Sanford
Bowden, Benjamin J.
Gould, Byron
Bowden, Charles Foster
Gray, Charles .Thomas
Burwash, Henry Jefferson
Gray, Harold Cyrus
Byrnes, Ralph Rauley
Gregory, Lester Claud
Carpenter, John Jacob
Grindle, Joshua
Chambers, John Arthur, P. M.
Guthardt, Philip
Chambers, John Hadley
Hall, Frank
Coombs, William Boyd
Halling, Frederick, P. M.
Corrigan, James S.
Henningson, Charles August
Coclrns, Joseph Baird
Hanson, Hans Peter
Cranens, Clarence Buchanan
Hoak, Newman Ervine
Dalin, Erick D.
Huff, Charles Edward
Daniels, Percy Lenwood
Jarvis, Henry Herbert
Dart, Frederick William, P. M.

257

ROSTER

ROSTER

Rewcastle, Jam es Goodie
Rice, James Charles
Ross, John Simpson, P. M .
Rush, Barnard
Rushing, John W.
Russell, Roderick Dhu
Salsig, Edgar Budd
Salsig, William Winter
Scott, Alonzo D.
Scott, Edward Slaughter
Severance, Frank Billings
Smith, Martin Thomas
Stanley, Perry Alfred
Stone, Walter Morison, P. M.
Stout, Clarence Leroy
Stuckey, Simon Fillmore
Steudeman, Henry q~y
Stickney, Fred Walter
Speer, Samuel, P. M.
Swanson, Gustof Henry, P. M.
Taunlund, Olof
Todd, James Wilson, P. M.
Turner, William Price
Valentine, Don Alonzo
Van Ahnen, Paul Frederick
Wahlstrom, Carl Gustaf
Wallace, William True, P. M.
Wallace, William True, Jr., P. M.
Weiss, Frederick, P. M.
White, Clarence Ulll)er, P. M.
Williams, Egbert Carson
Woocl, Casimer Jackson, P. M.
Zavitz, Bert Robert
Zavitz, Garfield N., P. M.
-128

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, Frederick Harold
SUSP.FJNDlm

FOR NON-PAYMENT
Burlingame, Homer S.
DIED:
$mith, Frederick Hale

17

OF

DUES:

HOSTE!{

PETALUMA LODGE, No. 180.
Petaluma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, fir8t Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS :

Emanuel Andrew P otter, Master,
J ohn P artridge, Chaplain,
Petaluma, Cal.
Malcolm Lyman Byce; Sen. Deaco,.
Thomas Talbot McGuire, Sen. Ward., Sandy McFadden, Ju1i. Deacon,
Sophus Carl Plow, Jun. Ward,
Augustus William Horwege, Mar.,
J ohn Lawler, Jr., Treasurer,
Charles Seibel, Steward,
George Nelson Smith, Secretary,
Adolph Henry Young, Stew_ard,
119 Main Street.
J ohn Olsen, Tj•ler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, John Quincy
Adams, William Samuel
Allen, James Edgar
Anderson, Alexander
Anderson, John Alfred
Ayers, William David
Arthur, James C.
Athanassin, George H.
Bauer, Ernest William
Baur, John
Bell, Wellie Samuel
Berri, Lindo Florindo
Berri, Vittore
Bidwell, Herman
Blackburn, Charles Walter
Blim, Peter Joseph, P. M.
Bowen, William Eladsit
Bowen, Alfred Daniel
Bowers, Alphonzo Benjamin
Bowles, Scott
Bowles, Bourbon
Brainerd, Henry Paine, P. M.
Brainerd, Herbert K.
Branch, George Byron
Brown, Frank Huston
Brown, Robert Henry
Brown, Robert Spear
Brunner, Robert
Burdell, James Black

Button, Isaac V.
Byce, Lyman C., P. M. ·
Byce, Malcolm Lyman
Camm, Edward Irving
Camm, John Lincoln, P. M.
Campigli, Charles
Cante!, Eugene
Chambers, Alfred Ernest
Champlin, "Charles Chaffee
Coate, Henry R.
Collins, Frank Miller
(.;orlis, Albert
Crane, Tarleton Lee
Cromwell, Frank Arlingto.n, P. M.
Crossl~y, Nathaniel Mason
Dean, Chauncey Theo.; P. M.
Dean, James Burroughs
De Martini Eligio
Denman, Frank Hardinberg
DeTurk, William Sherman, P. M.
Denny, Thomas Carmen
Denton, Samuel Wesley
Dillon, Charles Hardy, P. M.
Dinwiddie, James Lockridge •
Drees, Ernest Emil
Dreyfuss, Edward
Dunton, Oscar
Edwards, William Philips
Eddy, William Samuel

ROSTER
!!:vans, Edward Wm. M., P. M.
~'airbanks, Hiram Tolbert
~'raser, Charles Gladstone
l•'uller, Harve
Hale, Wallace Samuel
Beary, Warren F.
Giacomini, Natale
Gill, George Willard, P. M.
Goatley, Geo. Armsted
Gossage, Harry Sherman
Graham, Jonathan Harvey
Grandi, Reno Louis
Grandi, Salvatore
Graves, Sewel Fogg
Gray, Henry Charles
<lray, Edwards L.
Gray, Fred Lafayette
Green, Lyman, P. M.
Greenough, A. M.
Guldner, Walter Adelbert
llamilton, George Washington
Hanlin, Anllrew Evan
Haskell, William Barnabee
llnubrich, Leonard
Jranscom, Robert Hampden
Higbee, Hiram Bedell
Hitchcock, Frank Newton, P. M.
Hill, Alex. Blaky
Hoag, James W.
Hopkins, Samuel Judd
Horwege, Augustus William, P. M .
Huntington, Horace Hutchings
lfuntley. ~ in:e.ent Goodfellow
llusler, Ellward Aloia
,Johnson, John Eber
Kahn, Achille .
Kearns, Joseph
Kyle, Arthur Leonard
Lackey, Alex.
r,awler, John
l,awler, John, Jr.
1,echau, Albc1 t Edward
l,edn , Mannie
T,ewis, James Hall
f,ippitt, Frank Kavanaugh, P. M.

Lovejoy, George Palmer
Maclay, Thomas
Mardis, John D.
McDonald, Gilbert
McFadden, James, P. M.
Mc}'adden, John Thomas
McFadden, Reuben
McFadden, Sandy
McGuire, Thopias Talbot
McGuire, William Campbell
McKillop, Dugald
McMullin, Smith
McMurtry, Mathew
McNear, George Plummer
Merritt, John
Middleton, John Henry
Millee, Charles Timothy
Miller, Theo.
Mills, George K .
Mills, William Andrew
Murphy, George Bennett
Nauert, Frerlerick Anton, P . .M.
Nauert, Frederick Anton, .Jr.
Nelson, Francis Victor
Netherton, Wm. Bunyon
Neuburger, Morris
Olleig, Howard Holmes
Olsen, John
Olmsted, John Alexander, P. M.
Ormsby, Ernest Walter
Ott, George Herbert
Ottolini, Ferdinando
Parker, James Augustus
Parrish, David Franklin
Partridge, John
Pedro, Fernando Philip
Penry, John Edward
Phillips, Abraham Lincoln
Phillips, Frank Harry
Plow, Sophus Carl
Poehlmann, Conrad
Potter, Emapuel Andrew
Purvine, Thomas Byron
Purvine, William Burton
Rnmsny, Samuel

259

260

ROSTER

Rankin, Lowry Elmer
Reed, Clarence Ellsworth
Reynolds, Edward Henry
Roberts, Fletcher J.
Roberts, Henry John
Rodd, George Blackburn
Rogers, Milton K . T.
Rohrer, Chas. Frederick
Robinson, William, P. M.
Rundall, Napoleon B.
Samuels, Ernest Robert
Sartori, Vietor
Schlicker, Frederick
Schlueter, Frederick Charles
Scott, John Columbus
Seibel, · Charles
Seibel, Harry
Sharp~, Chauncey Oscar
Simidian, Mihram M.
Skinner, Arthur Tapin
Smith, George Neilson, P. M.
amith, Harry Francis
Soule, Che.rles Freeman
Spridgen, William Thomas, P. M .
Stayner, Charles Allen
Stewart, Samuel James
St. John, Silas Cady
Stradling, William Charles
Strauss, David
Stull, John
Sweed, Philip

Sweetmann, George Richard
Taft, Chester Kimball
Taft, Hiram Fayette, P. M.
Taft, Louis Russell
Thomas, Charles Edward
Thomas, William David
Tibbetts, Arthur Living~ton, P. M.
Towne, Walter
Tupper, John Henry
Van Bebber, Park Andrew
Van Bebber, Peter
Vander Naillen, Edmund Lewis
Van Marter, William Henry
Vogensen, Hans Peter
Veale, William Roe, P. M.
Vestal, Walter Clarkson
Wakefield, Orrin Lewis
Wallace, Robert G., P. M. ·
Webb, Edward Henry
Weber, Herman, P . M.
Weil, Adolph Leopold
West, Frederick Charles
Weston, Harry Mccurdy
Weston, Henry Little
Wilder, William
Willard, Thomae
Winsor, John Henry
Woods, Robert
Young, Adolph Henry
Zartman, William Henry
Zook, Frank Kortz

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bloom, Adolph John
Forbes, Hugh Whittier
Jensen, Hans

DIED:
Lippitt, Edward Spalding
Risk, David Rankin

ROSTER

261

RUSSIAN RIVER LODGE. No. is i
Windsor, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next ncceeding FnlJ Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Harold Calhoun, Master, Jos. Charles Pohley, Sen. Deacon,
11 caldsburg, Rural No. 1.
Howard Bell, Jun. lJeacon,
1lcrhert Roy Wilson, Sen. Ward.,
James Buchanan Sheppard, Marshal,
llohcrt Ballantine, Jun. iVarden,
William Henry Young, Steward,
\11drew Jackson Cart~r, Treasurer, Albert Filmore MisPner, Steward,
l'hrnnas Miller Yates, Secretary,
Frank A. S. Opfer, Tyler.
Windsor, Cal.
MEMBERS:
ll11lbi, J oseph
Lavelle, John
llnrnes, Edwin Harrison, P. M.
Lavelle, William Thomas
Bell, Howard
Lee, Stacy
lltll, Warren
Leech, Albert Earnest
llerns, Jacob William
Lehn, Louis
llurtoni, Joseph
Lindsay, Walter Clark
Bo1ch, John David
Litton, Thomas Buckman
llnlabella, Charles
MacKinson, Herbert Arthur
flnlhonn, William Harold
Macy, William Clinton
llarter, Andrew Jackson
Maddux, James Everet
llooper, John D-avid
Maddux, Lee
llroMbie, J ames
Maddux, Willinm
J)avis, John Martin
Martin, Christi11n Juliue, P . M.
Eckle, Tobias Louis
McCracken, William Jasper
lllmery, Fred Artemus
Mccutchan, William Charles
E1tlnghouseri, Wm. Adam, P. M.
McGuire, Jacob
flnlnes, William Crockett
Misener, Albert Fillmore
1Jr1ham, James William
Mitchell, William James
llrron, John James
Mitchell, John Weeley
Jin 11, Richard Bishop
Nowlin, Andrew Brail
llembree, Andrew Jackson
Opfer, Frank Augustus 8.
lltmbree, Atla.e Thompson
Overton, Theo. Talbot
lllgbie, Earl David
Peterson, Peter Hanson
llo1!er, Charles Augustus
Pohley Joseph Charles, P. M.
llunter, Henry Almon, P. M.
Pool, Charlee Augustus, P. M.
Jacobson, John Henry
Pool, Frank Johnson
.Jones, Cellie
Pool, Harry Edwa.rd
Kruse, John Anton
Roat, Charles Wesley
ljaughlin, Grant Alex., P. M.
Sh1!ppard, James Buchanan, P. M.

ROSTER

ROSTER

262
Slusser, Chester Martin
Slusser, Eugene
Small, William Henry, P. M.
Snook, Edward Birdsey
Tartter, Frederick
Temple, Richard
Trowbridge, George 'fyler, P. M.
Tuttle, James
Walk, Jasper Jerome

Wilson, Hbrbert Roy
Wilson, William Franklin
Wilson, Neu Stewart
Wilson, Lawrence Henderson, P . M.
Wilson, Julius
Wilds, George Edward
Yates, Thomas Miller, P. M.
Young, William Henry

WITHDRAWN:
Leslie, Thomas
Edmondson, William John

DIED:
Russell, Hugh Alexander

Rahm, Roscoe, P. M.
rlherer, James Hamilton, P. M.
llherer, John Dillon
4tnith, Neil
lltanton, Claude Devon
tltebbins, Cyril Adelbert
lltewart, Charles William
15tlnson, Chas. Green

Traynham, Henry Vaughn
Trueblood, William Erwin
Ward, Edgar Kirby, P. M.
Ward, ,John Cannady
West, Russel Cleveland
Wilkins, Robert Watson
Woodland, James Ward
Zumwalt, Ma rion

263

-44

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
I\ hrahams, Ira
J<"'razier, Guy H .
Kaerth, George W.
1':1•nns, Foster Mott

DIED:
Langenour, John Hamilton

CLEAR LAKE LODGE, No. 183.
MERIDIAN LODGE No. 182.
Arbuckle, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

Thomas Gilman Barrett, Master,
Charles G. Stinson, Chaplain,
Arbuckle, Cal.
Raymond Patton, S enior Deacon,
Chas. Cleveland McMullan, Sen. W., H. E. Lieurance, Junior Deacon,
Walter Gordon Patton, Jun. Ward., George C: Meckfessel, Marshal,
James W. Woodland, Treasurer,
Neil Smith, Steward,
Samuel A. Pendleton, Secretary,
J. M. Peart, Steward,
Arbuckle.. Cal.
J ohn C. Ward, Tyler.
Atran, Alexander Julius
Barrett, Thomas Gillman
Briscoe, David Frisbie
Cramer, Douglas, P. M.
Christian, George Herman
Foster, Joseph Warren
Gabby, Robert Smiley
Grevie, Peter, Jr.
Grove, Walter
Howell, William Franklin
Hyde, Harry Edward
Jamison, Wm. Thomas
Kissling, Rudolph Conrad
Knox, Ellis Langdon

MEMBERS:
Locke, Charles Henry
Martin, Julius, P. M. ,
McMullen, Chas. Cleveland
Meckfessel, George Conratl, P. M.
Mitchell, James Edgar
Moore, George William, P. iv.:.
Myers, John Henry
Myers, Lorenzo Dow
Owen, Arthur Sheldon
Patton, Raymond Kelsey
Pendleton, Samuel Alvah, P. M.
Peake, Edwin Henry
Peart, John Marshall
Peart, Joseph Wilbur

Lower Lake, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next p~ceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

Rolla Randolph Rannalls, Sm. Deac.~
\lhert Hiram Kennedy, ,711aster,
Arabella, Cal.
Louis J ago, Junio r Deacon,
fames Dunbar Brenard, Sen. i¥ard., Wm. Jardine Clayton, Steward,
Chas. Spencer Sheridan, Jun. Ward., William Henry Smith, Steward,
Frank Akins, Treasurer,
Ernest Enderline, Tyler.
l,uke Evans, S ecretary,
T.,ower Lake, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Akins, Frank P.
Kennedy, Hiram
Arbuthnot, Phillip Stewart M.
Kennedy, Albert Hiram, P. M.
Drenard, James Dunbar, P. M.
Kirtley, John Elliott
Castellaw, Thomas Lorenzo
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Clayton, William Jardine, P. M.
Morrell, Albert Fairfield
Cohn, Abraham
Pardee, Bill Jennings, P . M.
Dinsmore, George Major
Pardee, George Washingtoil
Enderline, Ernest
Palatine, Samuel Thomas
Evans, Luke, P. M.
Rannalls, Rolla Randolph
Frank, Leon Harrison, P. M,
Rawson, William Busfteld
Herndon, Francis Marion
Snow, George Horace
.Tago, Louis
Smith, William Henry
,Tones, Daniel, P. M.
Wilson, Henry Harrison, P. M. -26
WITHDRAWN:
'ryler, John Alexander

ROSTER

ROSTER

SIERRA VALLEY LODGE, No. 184.

CLAIBORNE LODGE No. 185.

264

S1errav1lle, Sierra County.

. Point Arena, Mendocino County.

Stated Meetings Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Htated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
James M. Turner, Master,
Sierraville, Cal.
William Llewellyn Nichols, Sen. W.,
Henrich, F. E. Ohland, Jun. Ward.,
Linus Dolley, Treas11rer,
William Elbert Miller, Secretary,
Sierraville, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Nagle, George
Barton, Walter S.
Nichols, Albert S.
Chandler, William Henry, P. M.
Nichols, William Llewellyn
Coates, Gaines Lane, P. M.
Copren, William J., P. M.
Nichols, Herbert Oipa
Ohland, Herman F. E.
Dennis, William
Dolley, Linus
Patterson, David B.
Dolley, Walter John
Perrazzo, Joseph
Feiss, Earl
Place, John Norton
Pritchard, Maurice
Hockett, Robert Vista!
Rowland, Francis Marion, P. M.
Howk, John Simeon
Humphrey, Jacob Butte
Slipner, Henry
Johnson, Julius
Strang, Jared
Turner, Harry Augustus
Jones, Edward Everett
Kynoch, Walter Anson
Turner, James M.
Webber, Daniel Jasper
Langrebe, John
Webber, Owen Nathan, P. M.
Maxwell, George W.
Wood, George ...
Mercer, Earl H.
Wood, John Mowrey
Miller, William Egbert
-37
Morgan, James
WITHDRAWN:
Hamlin, Edmnnd Higgins, Sr.

Louden, Robert

DIED:
Blinman, John

265

OFFICERS:

1111uel C. Hunter, Master,
~ 1nnchester, Cal.
I11h11 Clark, Treasurer,
)1 ll•ph H. Halliday, S~crr.tary,
Point Arena, Cal.

Frank W. Reynolds, Senior Deacon,
Frank L. Emery, Junior Deacon,
Soren Iversen, Marshal,
Henry Howe, Steward,
Joseph C. Halliday, Steward,
Antonio Stornetta, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Lane, .Tohn Crosby, Sr., P . M.
ltl"hop, Elijah
J,ane, .Tohn Crosby, Jr.
ltorclen, .Toseph Rea
Lane, Wm. Ralph
llnllnon, Eugene William, P. M.
Litchfield, Frank
I '11rter, Albert Edward
l'hrilfant, Aaron, P. M.
Lobree, Phillip
l'lrnlfant, Harold Philbrick, P. M. Mahlman, William Theo.
Marsau, David Allen
( 'hristie, Fred Abasolem
Miller, Augustin
l'l11rk, .Tohn
Neto, Joseph Rafael
Ooast, Ochen Wesley
lh1thbertson, James Ernest
Newfield, Aaron
0-'Brien, Chester Francis, P. M.
llnnn, James
Paulson, Amandus John R.
llotrhell, Harvey Osgood
Queen, Christopher
<1 lllmore, Emmitt Potter, P. M.
rllllmore, Everett Emerson
Rassmussen, Martin
llrlffith, Forestes Lawson
Redemeyer, Luther, P. M.
Reynolds, Frank Walton
IT11lliday, Joseph Crockett, P. M.
Sanford, John B.
llalliday, Joseph Henry
Sharp, Isaac Shipman
ITargra ve, Edwin Williard
ITn~kell, William Hascombe, P. M. Sternetta, Antone
Taylor, James Richard, P. M.
Hathaway, Robert S. Baker
Whelpton, Charles
1llggins, Walter H.
Watrous, Robert Winthrope
lhmter, Samuel C., P. M.
Williams, Richard Holbrooke, P. M.
I lllAAey, Richard
rvorsen, Soren, P. M.
Williams, William Lewis
l\lngren, .Jacob William
Worthington, Peter Duncan
-50
WITHDRAWN:
*Farbstein, .Jacob
•Degrees conferred during the year.

ROSTER

ROSTER

EVENING STAR LODGE, No. 186.

KEITH LODGE, No. 187.

Etna Mills, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

Gilroy, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings first Wednesday in each. month.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Alexander Parker, Jr., Sen. Deac.,
Charles Wilbur Nutting, Master,
Albert Francis Parrott, Jun. DeacOfll
Etna Mills, Cal.
Edwin Wm. Bathurst, Sen. Warden, John Wallace McBride, Marshal,
Albert Sanborn Colton, Jun. Ward., Charles William Kist, Steward,
Orson Valentine Green, Treasurer, Edward Monroe Hall, Steward,
Albert Wallis, Tyler.
Martin Marx, Secretary,
Etna Mills, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Messner, John Frederick
Adams, John Howe, P. M.
Messner, John Martin
Baird, Charles
Mitchell, George Henry, P. M.
Barandun, Simon
Nutting, Charles Wilber, P. G. M.
Bathurst, Edwin William, P. M.
Nutting; James Alexander
Benson, John
Parker, Alex., Jr., P. M.
Benson, Oscar Leonard
Parker, John
Colton, Albert Sanborn
Parrott, Albert Francis
Dannenbrink, Henry
Rastetter, George
Foster, Lee Wilbert
Smith, Fred George, P. M.
Geney, Henry Ferdinand, P. M.
Spooner, George Cummings, P. M.
Green, Orson Valentine, P. M.
Strickland, Chester George
Haines, William Homer
Swain, William Cartwright
Hall, Edward Monroe
Taylor, Alexander Stuart
Hughes, James Robert
Taylor. Robert Pey
Isaacs, Walter
Traverse, John
Jenner, Charles, P. M.
Wallis, Albert
Kist, Charles William, P. M.
Wilson, Lucius Stafford
Luce, Irving Jacob
Wilson, Lucius Stafford, .Jr.
Marx, Martin, P. M.
~37
McBride, John Wallace, P. M.

I a•derick Henry Sebire, Master,
William A. MacClaen, Chaplain,
t:ilroy, Cal.
James Clair Patison, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Fred'k Blake, Sen. Warden, August Gubsor, Junior Deacon,
\n<lrew George Rasmussen, Jun. W., Edward Raymond Green, Marshal,
11 c:nry Hecker, Treasurer,
Cris Peter Andersen, Steward,
l>nvid Thornton, Secretary,
Bernard . Hodges Franklin, Steward,
Gilroy, Cal.
Henry Lynn McDuffee, Tyler.

266

WITHDRAWN:
*Doney, William Kise
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Swain, William Cartwright
DIED:
Wilson, Lucius Stafford
•Restored during the year.

MEMBERS:
Henderson, Peter
llalrd, Thomas Waldie
Higgins, John Thomas
linrshinger, Benjamin
Holman, Charles Albert
Holsclaw, William Barter
Honnett, Edwin Joseph, P. M.
lllgley, William Henry, P. M.
Keaton, George
Blair, William Grant
Keith, John Mathew, P. M.
Kilpatrick, Samuel William
IUake, William Frederick
llradley, John Harrison
Lamb, Frederick
Rrem, Richard
Lewis, George Martin
llrltton, William
Lewis, James William
Hurr, Daniel, Jr.
Lennon, Mark
()ampbell, Archibald
Linnell, Allen Sylvester
Ohappell, George Alfred
Martin, Albion Alonzo
Clark, Jonas
Martin, Jasper Franklin
Clordes, Paul Henry
Martin, John Henry
Clrawford, Edward Darrell
Mason, George Thomas
l>avis, John Mathews
McCoy, Arthur Howarcl
Dunlap, George Thomas
McDuffee, Henry Lynn
Earl, George Wheeler
Meyers, James Henry
Elnfalt, John Michael. P. M.
Miner, Joseph Marion
Emlen, Clement Henry
Moore, Oscar Thomas
Moore, Samuel Thomas, P. M.
Farmer, Edward Henry
Moore, Walter Scott, P. M.
Franklin, Bernard Hodges
Onyon, Fred Gage
F'rederickson, Charles Elmer
Gubsor, August
Parmelee. Phinias Ward
Patison, James Clair, P. M.
Haydock, William Henry, P. M.
lfayes, William Clarence
Peterson, .Frederick
Percy, William J. ·
Hecker, Henry, P. M.
Phelps,, William .
IT ellstrom, Carl Alex.
i\ ndresen, Christian Peter

21.ii

268

ROSTER

Staniford, Frank Chester
Porter, Walter Sherman
Sutcliff, .John
Pratt, Charles Francis
Swope, Edwin
Pyle, Darius Mack
Thomas, Rowley Montague
Pyle, William Robert
Rasmussen, Andrew Sofus George Thornton, David
Tice, George Edward Charles
Rea, George Elmer
Rea, Samuel
Tracey, Harry Woodbridge
Tryon, Ambrose Bruen
Rice, Marshall
Wagner, Harry
Rice, Frank
Richter, Albert St. Clair
Watson, Alexander
Weaver, Clarence Roy, P. M.
Riley, Daniel John
Wentz, George Adam
Robertson, Robert Neilson
White, George Charles
Rohnert, Waldo.
Wicker, Harry
Sargent, .Tames Alex.
Wild, Harry Lee
Sebire, Frederick Henry, P. M.
Wild, 'William Bradford
Skeels, Henry Asbury
Skillicorn, George Edward, P. M.
Willey, Howard
Willson, Carlon Russell
Slocum, George Washington
Wolfrom, Adam
Smith, Arthur Dee
Wright, George William
Smith, James
Wright, .James Henry
Smith, Sidney Henry
-102
Zuck, .James Ralph,' P. M . .
Springett, Roland
WITHDRAWN:
Haydon, George Arthur
DIED:
Mount, Malcolm

OAKLAND, LODGE, No. 188.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meeting&, :first Saturday in each 'month.
OFFICERS:

George Edward Perkins, Master,
William Samuel MacMurtry, Chap.,
1100 Bella Vista.
Charles Fletcher Gilcrest, Sen. Deaq
Harry Thornton Moore, Sen. Ward., Howard Nelson Mosher, Jun. Deac.»
Daniel Webster Ptatt, Jun. Ward., Francis Ami Braun, Marshal,
Edwin Nelson Wa!tet, Treasurer,
John Richard Sutton, Steward,
Charles Nelson Walter, Secretary, Don Frederick Harris, Steward,
First National Bank.
Thaddeus Robinson Joy, Tyler.

ROSTER
MEMBEhS:
Bradshaw, Benjamh1
Bradshaw, 'fhomas
\ b11 1 James Neil
Braun, Clarence Thomas
b1l, John Jacob
Braun, Francis Ami
l 1l11lr, William Holleley
\ '1am11 Frank Samutl
Bray, George Garfield
Brayton, Edward Lacey
\ ber, Louis
Breed, Arthur Hastings
\ lexander, George
Alexander, George Washington
Breed, Herbert Lincoln
Brinckerhoff, Elmer Ellsworth
o\ lien, Ernest
Brigman, Martin
\ II man, David Joseph
I nderson, Henry Cornelius
Britton, John Alex., P. M.
I nderson, Otto Fred
Britton, Van Leer Eastland
Anderson, William Wilson
Broadwell, Melvin Luther
I rrowsmith, George Edward
Bronson, Edward Dverdin
lladier, Thomas Norman
Brown, Benjamin Theo.
Hkker, Alfred Septimus
Browne, Henry Robinson
Brownell, Frank Allen
H11ker, Ernest Emery
ll11rker, Charles William
Bruae, Samuel James
llarnard, Charles Sumner
Brum!, Oscar Charles
llaabam, John Alden
Bruns, John Christian Conrad
ll111ford, John William
Burgess, George Waldo
Burpee, Joseph Solomon
ll"trhelder, William Frank
Burpee, Leete.r Glenn
llnxter, Ormie Reed
Burns, John William
lltatty, Joseph Crawford
Burrell, Alfred Ray
lltck, Alders Clark
llolcher, Gilbert Luke
Burtchaell, George Thomas
II· II, Harmon
Butler, Benjamin E.
ll11njamin, Edward Hewlett
Button, Fre<l Lawrence, P. M.
lto1111er, Harry, P. M.
Cantin, Augustus Samuel
ll1nnett, Henry Thomas
Carl, Charles Fred~rick
Carpenter, Tom
llerkefeld, John Wolfrom
Carter, James
lllrr, Herman Theodore
Hlxby, Wiifred Everett
Cary, Benjamin Gate11
lllack, .Joseph
Casad, Samuel Grant
Chaloner, Henry
Uhlir, William Wallace
lll11s1 Percy Laugbland
Chamberlain, Nelson H.
Chamblin, Clyde Luther
lloell, Edward Albert
lloell, Frederick William
Channell, William Leon
llones, Samuel West
Child, Edward
llorrhert, Carl Wyland
Christianson, Lawrence Theodore
ll11rland, Archibald
Clark, Alvah Kittredg~, P. M.
llowbeer, Benjamin Franklin
Clark, Charles Edward
llowen, Pardon Mason
Clark,. William C.
Clay, Isham Harriso!l
llrabban, Dixon
I bbott, Frank Howard, Jr.,

269

270

ROSTER

ROSTER

Clemmer, Ora Howard
Clift, Frederick Charles
Colbourn, Frank
Cole, Walter Hill
Cole, William David
Coleman, Silas Ellsworth
Collins, David Edward
Concanon, Wilfred Walter
Concanon, William Norton .
Congdon, Ernest Niles
Connor, William Alfred Hopkins
Cook, Norman Dunn
Corder, Arthur Elmer
Corey, John Sanborn
Corrigan, John Sinclair
<Jrafts, Henry Gray
Craig, Albert William
Craig, Hugh
Creed, Wigginton Ellis
Crist, Frederick George
Curtis, Bert Leonard
Cushman, Edwin Burke
Dalziel, Robert
Daniels, Gilbert Barber, P. M.
Davie, John Leslie
Davies, Robert Ellis
Davis, William Rude
Degen, Ludolph Phillip
DeGolia, George Ellis
De la Montanya, l!arry 0.
De la Montanya, Mathew
Dewar, Frank Milne
Dilling, Alfred Ernest
Dingee, William Jackson
Dixon, Robert Vickers
Donegan, Constantine Paul
Drapeau, Louis Claude
Dunne, John Carlos
Dusinbury, Myron Thompson
Du Val, William Moyland
Eberhard, Henry
Eadie, John
Eadon, Moses, P. M.
Eadon, William Henry
Earle, Guy Chaft'ee

Eber, George
Eber, .Tohn William
Edwards, Ambrose Frederick
Engelhardt, Herman Louis
Enslin, Alfred Gottob
Erdman, Ludwig
Evans, Richard Henry
Evans, Talisien
Evans, Thomas Daniel
Everson, w·allace
Fairchild, Judd Hobart
Ferris, Frank Elwood
Fieberling, John Peter
Finkeldey, Edward John
Finkeldey, William Henry
Firby, Thomas Wm. Nelson
Fischer, Charles Frederi,.'i:
Fischer, George Irvine
Fitzpatrick, Frank Emmett
Folger, Edwin Gilbert
Folte, Arno Gustav
Folte, Gustave Julius Oswald
Fortin, Damiens Edmont
Foss, Wm. Sherman
Fowler, Douglass Thomas
Franck, Henry W.
Franke, Rudolph Charles
Fraser, Alex. Grant
Fraser, Hugh
Freidlander, Marcus
French, Asa Telford
Friend, William Hovey
Frost, William Edmond
Fuller, Dee Bryant
Gage, George Guilford
Gage, Stephen Thornton
Gallagher, James Joseph
Gardiner, Claud Melnotte
Gause, Charles William
Gaylord, Robert Brainerd, P. M.
Giamboni, Louis Alonzo
Gifford, Arthur Swift
Gifford, Charles Terry
Gifford, William M.
Gilcrest, Charles Fletcher

111l 11111n, Joseph
I di
M axmillian
Clonclhue, George Brooks
l1111hnm, Charles Kinainl
I 1 11.• , Roscoe Spauldiug
ll l'~~nwood, Frank Munroe
11rt1more, John Thomas
I licver, William Sherwood
t I ukctt, Samuel . Allston
1lnmmer, George
llnndy, Lucius Harvey
t I nnsen, Charles John
11 nnMen, .John Mikkelsen
11 nrden, Frank Walter
llnrri~ , Albert Lawrence
11 nrris, Don Frederick
llnrris, William Baker
ll111·ron, George Durward
11 nver, George Richard
ll&y<'s, John Ferdinand
lleaver, Walter
tl11nclerson , John Henry
lfl)nAhaw, Tyler
ll11rmle, William Adam
lleron, Ernest Alvah
II 11wcs, Charles Leslie
lllgh, William Henderson, Jr.
11111, Benja min Chickering
11111, John Augustus
11111, Hobert Lewis, Jr.
tllldebrand, Raymond Cecil
lllrsch, Edward Rudolph
II obbs, Clarence Leavitt
lloft'man, Charles Frederick
11 olt, Charles Henry
lloward, Charl es Prescott
11 own rd, Henry Rherwin
lloward, John L.
lloward, .John Lawrence, Jr.
llowie, Thomas
llubbard, Bert Sheridan
ti 11ghes, Wilfrid Kellog
llughes, William
llunt, Symmes Harrison
I hint, Thomas Edward

Hyde, Wallace .l:!:dwaru
Ingram, William Henry
Irish, Spencer Kline
Irving, Charles Edward
Ismon, George Henry
Jackson, Francis Frederick
Jasper, Oscar Wood
Jenkin, Joseph Henry
Jepson, Louis
Jillson, Charles Brooks
Johnson, Charles Emil
Johnson, Emil Theodore
Johnson, Gunst
Johnson, Stephen Howard
Johnson, Wm. Elliott
Johnston, Jacob Burchfield
Johnstone, Peter Mitchell
Jonas, Abraham
Jonas, Irving
Jonas, Milton L.
,1 ones, Richard
Joues, William Henry
.lay, Thadeus Robins9n
Judie, Benjamin Z.
Kastens, Harry Edward
Kantch, Magnus Gustav
Kinsman, Richard
Keyes, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Keyes, Charles Edwin, Jr.
Keyes, William Re.ed
King, Robert
Kitto, George ·
Klein, Sigmund
Knowles, Edwin Irving
Knudsen, John Martin
Koser, Newton Alexander
I,aidlaw, Frank
Lamar, Henry Everett
Land, Walter
Lange, John Frederick
Lathrop, Solomon
Lawrence, John
Laymance, Millard Joserhus
Lea, Frenerick John
J.Jeckie, Robert Stevenson

2il

272

ROSTER

ROSTER

Lewis, John
Miller, Robert Willis
Lindsay, Thomas
Miller, William Henry
Lineker, Charles Wm.
Miller, William Noble
Miller, Thomas Irving, P. M.
Littlefield, Roscoe Wentworth
Mincher, Burton Lewis
Lockwood, Elmer Langton
Logan, William Wells
Mock, Theodore Lewis
Long, Richard Frederick
Moore, Harry Thornton
Lovett, Alvah Eugene
Moore, William John
Lowden, William Heron
Mohr, Henry
Luckhardt, Wilhelm Carl Geo.
Mohr, Henry Cornelius
Lutkey, Charles Henry
Morgan, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Lynas, Robert Irving
Morse, Fred Wellington
Macdonalcl, John Archibald C.
Mosher, Howard Nelson
Macdonald, William Isadore, P. M. Mock, Theo. Freylinghuysen, P. M.
Macdonald, William
Morrison, William John
MacGregor, Charles Manning
Moss, David
Mack, Oscar Eugene
Moulton, Alfred Ross
MacLafferty, James Henry, Sr., P. M.Mueller, Charles Daniel
Maclise, James
Muller, Jacob
Madden, Frank Ellsworth
Muller, John Peter
Madison, George Edmund
Munsell, James Roy
Mariner, Gideon Stanwood
Munson, Arthur King
Martens, D. Richard
Murdock, Homer Blaine
Martin, Neils M.
Myers, Wilbert Jacob
Matthews, Nicholas Algie
Myrick, Chester Stanley
Mayo; Bertram Chapman
Naismith, Jame~ Semple
Mayon, James Lenox
Neff, Myron Dilbert
Meade, George Frederick
Nelle, Hans William
McLure, James Thomas
Nelle, Harry Willard
McCully, Judson
Nelle, William
McGowan, Charles Mastersen
Nelson, Edmund
McGrew, Henry Grant
Nelson, Nels Peter
McKinnie, Charles Earle
Neighbor, Robert Webster
McLeod, John Campbell
Neilsen, Christian Severin
McMurtry, William Samuel, P. M. Nethercott, Charles James
Meeker, Frank Leslie
Nichols, Frederick
Melquiond, Lester Lawrence
North, Hart Hyatt
Mengel, Charles Peter .
North, Samuel D.
Merritt, Albert Humphrey
Nourse, ·Stephen Henry
Merritt, James Bestor, P. M.
Ogden, Fred Roderick
Meyerstein, ·Charles
Ogden, John Clark
Miller, Charles William J•>achim
Orrick, Oliver Summerdeld, Jr.
Miller, Frank Thomas
Otis, Albert Henry
Miller, Homer TheophiluB
Ott, Charle8 Frederick, P. M.
Miller, Lewis Albert
Pardee, George Cooper, P. M.

273

ltarker, Chester Stilman

Sagehorn, Henry Albert
Sagehorn, William Deidrich
11arry, Thomas Hendry
Sadler, Herman Julius
1•1ter11on, George Wannon
Samuels, Herbert Joshua
l'1ltterson, Alexander John
Sause, Clifton Archibald
1•1arce, Edward Hugernin
Searight, Beath Paul
11earce, Webb Nicholsen
Searles, Mailler
111dder, Stanley
Schaackey, John Daniel
11orkins. 9eorge Clement, P. G. M. Schaackey, Louis John
Schachtebeck, Christian Lewis
11orkins, George Edward
11orry, Andrew John
Scott, Andrew Lowndes ·
11orry, Henry Lee
Scott, Jesse Arthur
1101Ty, Joseph Joshua
Shankland, Thomas Clinton
1111tersen, Fred Albert
Sherman, Edwin Allen
11holps, Nelson Dwight
Shortill, Walter
Simpson, Joseph H.
11hlllips, Frederick
11lorce, Edward
Skimmings, Robert Hoskings
11lerce, William
Slater, Urotes Mayer
l'lummer, Arthur Thomas
Smilie, .Tames Alexander
11ocock, Henry Edwin
Smith, Albert Lippitt
11oole, Charles Oscar
Smith, Andrew Derby
1•.. rter, Phil
Smith, Edwin Lowell
11owell, Alvin
Smith, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Guy Cummings
Powell, Howell Aubrey, P. M.
Smith, Horace Edwin
11ratt, Albert Harlow
i•ratt, Daniel Webster
Smith, John
I1roctor, Richard Ernest
Smith, John Frederick
Smith, Le Roy
l'ulcifer, Henry Willis
Hansome, Ernest Leslie
Smith, Sumner Stewart
Rodding, Albert Putnam
Smith, William Clay
lfr,..J, James Gilbert
Smith, William Bailey
Roach, James Vincent
Smith, William Delaware
Ito bins, John Harvey
Snow, Harry Kervan
Roberts, Jesse Sanford
Soderberg, Carl Fred
Robertson, Gilbert
Soule, Henry Douglas Bacon
l'ntlnlDh, Francis Bequette
Souter, John Henry
Roeth, Charles
Southwell, Frank Lyman
loethlisberger, Hans
Spangler, Lawrence Alfred
Borers, Cecil D.
Spaulding, Nathan Walter
lr11••, Frank Joseph
Spence, Aaron Tindle
Stafford, Walter Alfre d
H"'"· John Mimmo
lto111ier, Charles Augustus
.Stewart, Robert William
Howe, Albert
Stone, Louis Stanwood
l11~11ell, Earl Hunter
St. Pierre, George,
I '11 rker, Samual

0

18

274

ROSTER
ROSTER

Stratton, Wallace Clinton
Street, Horace Marvin
Street, William Schwerdt
Stromberg, John Warren
Sturges, Frank Fanning
Sturges, Frank Foster
Snckerman, Jacob
Sunkler, Wilson Hillier
Sutton, John Richard
Swanberg, Erie
Swanson, Charles
Swenson, John Arthur
Swenson, Swen August
Taft, Henry Clay
·
'fate, Samuel Patton
Tashiera, Lewis
Tayler, Samuel Johnson, P. M.
Thomas, Hayward Glazi.ir
Thoms, Christopher August Fred.
Thornbury, Herbert John
Thurber, Judson
Todd, James Hamiltou
Towle, .Tohn Francis
Trearlwell, John Bartlett
Trower, Albert Ebenezer
Trower, Frank Whitaker
Turnbull, George Wylan
Turner, John
Upton, Lewis Mylon
Upton, Mylon William
Van Court, Eugene Salter
Van Inwagen, Leonard Francis
Van Schaick, D'Ehnry Sylvan
Vidy, James Gabriel Powers
Vogt, Frederick Percival
Von der Ropp, Alfred
Vo.n Hirsch, Sementi Julius
Voorhees, Fred Duane
Vore, Wm. Asa
Wachs, Harold
Wache, Martin
Waldron, Patrick Sarchfield
Waldron, Vernon
Walker, Wilber, Sr.

Walker, Wilbei, Jr.
Walker, William
Walter, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Walter, Edwin Nelson
Walton, Jesse, P. M.
Ward, Alfred Ernest
Ward, Eobert
Warren, John Chester
Waterhouse, Charles John
Waters, Geo. Willard
Watlington, Abraham Lincoln
Waltz, Charles
Webb, Arthur James
Weilbye, William Hansen
Wcill, Armand
Weill, Eug~ne
Westlake.• Benjamin Fl'auklin
Wharton, Henry Edw11.rd
Wharton, Harry Edward; Jr.
Wheeler, Roscoe ' Samuel
Whidden, George Robert
White, George Stevens
White. James Stevens
Whitney, Frederick Eugene
Wilberg, Ernest Nicholas ·
Wilcox, Burton Bernard
Wilcox, Walter Cary
Williams, .Tohn
Williums, .Tohn Edward
Williams, Robert Neal
Williamson, Hazard Snowden
Williamson, W. Forsythe, P. M.
Wilson, Adelbert
Wilson, Chnrlea Jasper
Wilson, Joseph, Jr.
Wilson, Lee A.
Wilson, William
.Vinkelman, Louis Cornelius
Wise, Charles Ferdinand
Wise, Herbert Daniel
Wise, Melvin
Wise, Raphael
Wishaar, John Herman
Withers, Perey Stanley

Woeener, Frank Henry
Wood, Hart
fork, Charles Bannon

275

Young, Julius Alexander
Young, Wm. Fenwick
Zeigler, Andrew M. Theodore -540
WITHDRAWN:
Brown, Erle Millwater

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cole, Charles Finney
DIED:
Ericson, Charles
Lehnhardt, Emil
Rand, Hall Bergen

l\ntonelle, Joseph Sebarlane
lllxby, Levi Samuel

NORTHERN LIGHT LODGE, No. 190.
Millville, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFi:'ICERS:

I ll'llry Herman Butzbach, Master,
Geo. Frederick Taylor, Chap/ain
l\lillvillc, Cal.
w·11·
1 1am I . Morris, Sen. Deacon, '
l,cvi Petit Rawlings, Sm. Warden, llugh Alexander Addington, Jun. D
(~co: Washington T~1atcher, Jun. W., William Gusham Wagoner, Marshal.,
l<nus Clarence Smith, Trrasurer,
Clarence C. Taylor, Steward
'
\\>alter Leeforest Gay, Secretary,
Benjamin Franklin Davis Steward
Palo Cedro, Cnl.
Jacob Daniel Overmyer, Tyler.
'
MEMBERS:
Adams, John Quincy
Dunham, Almond Nathaniel
Addington, Hugh Alexander
Dunham, Joseph Albee, P. M.
!\sher, ~'redrick
Eick, Howard D.
Atkins, Benjamin Wilberforce
Edwards, Marshall E.
Baker, Lewis Edward
Eldred, Stephen James
Bass, Herbert
Flowers, Marshall E.
Bateman, Charles Edgar
Forslund, Charles Fretl.
Binkley, Tholow
Gay, Walter Leeforest
Brown, Walter Wm .
Hackler, Francis Marion
Butzback, Henry Herman, P. M.
Hackler, Lorenzo Spencer
Bntzbae.k, Raymond Henry
Hardy, Royal Lorne
Clark, Ross Parker
Harri~, Amie! M.
Crawford, James
Hathaway, John Ray
Cutter, Henry Hill
Hurst, Ferdinand
Davis, Benjamin F.
Klotz, William F.
Dirseh, Frederick, P. M.
Lippoldt, Herman August

276

ROSTER

ROST EB

Smith, James Edward
Lewis, Charles Henry
Smith, Louis Clarence
McBroom, Alva
Smith, Wallace Adelbert
Metsker, Alonzo Bryon
Smith, William Atkin, P. M.
Middleton, George Thomas ·
Sorenson, Samuel
Middleton, Joshua Joe
Taylor, Clarence Charles
Middleton, Thomas Huff
Taylor, Edward Milton
Morgan, Richard William
Taylor, George Frederick, P . M.
Morris, William Israel
Taylor, John Zacharia
Ogburn, Jefferson D.
Thatcher, Alexander
Ogburn, John William
Thatcher, Bert William
Overmyer, Jacob Daniel
Thatcher, Earl Sylvester
Phillips, John Williard
Thatcher, George Wash., P. M.
Rathbun, Merritt Dempsey
Thatcher, John Thomas
Rathbun, William H. Harrison
Rawlings, Erastus Edward, P. M. Thatcher, John Wesley
Thatcher, Mark Carr
Rawlings, Levi Petit
Turner, Joseph
Rock, Samuel Oliver
Wagoner, William Gusham, P. M.
Ross, Albert Frederick, P. M .
Walsh, William
Sanger, Frederick
Witherow, Samuel Newton
Schrarer, Otto Frederick
Wright, Ernest Wallace
Scott, Thomas Joel
-7:S
Silver, Levatty
WITHDRAWN:
Bell, Charle8 Arthur.

MARIN LODGE, No.

191.

San Rafael, Marin Oounty.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each mon th.
OFFIOERS:
Dudley C. Bates, Chaplain,
Carl Richard Schmidt, Master,
Arthur L . Adams, Sen. Deacon,
San Rafael, Cal.
J ohn Mackenzie Sims, Sen. Warden, John Clute, Jun. Deacon,
Frank C. Schernstein, Marshal,
A lbert N. Boyen, Junior Warden,
Albert B. Dewing, Steward,
William Paul Murray, Treasurer,
Edgar T . Zook, Steward,
George G. Vanderlip, Secretary,
Samuel J . Davidson, Tyler.
San Rafael, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Atterbury, Charles Bakewell, P . M.
Abbott, William Henderson
Augustine, Samuel Miller
Adams, Arthur Leslie
Ault, John Milton
Adams, Walter Miller
Angellotti, Frank Marion, P .G.M. Barber, Albert Hale

Barnes, Edward Thomas
Barr, Robert Joseph
.l:larr, Thomas Ira Cook
Barr, William
Bates, Dudley Conent
Beauregard, Harry Julius
Becker, Victor Frederick
Belden, Josiah Humphreys
Bent, Wilson Dexter
Berry, Fred Leslie
Bettancurt, .Tohn Enos
Birlem, Frederick William
Bogle, Eugene Edwin
Bonneau, Thomas Siah, P. M.
Boole, William Augustus
Borkheim, Abraham Lincoln
Boyen, Albert Nicholas
Brehm, Adam
Brixen, Christian
Brown, Will Walker
Buchanan, George
Bnck, John Aldridge
Buck, Walter Ehlers
Bullock, Erlwin Mortimer
Burleson, Harley Le Verne
Bnrnham, Burton Nicholas
Byrne, .Tames Douglass
Caldwell, Angus Byrne
Carlile, Charles Edgar
Cediey, Francis
Chamberlain, William Lewis
Cheda, George Alfred
Christensen, Charles
Christoffersen, Hans Christian
Claussen, Peter Heinrich C.
Clute, John
Codoni, Guiseppe Abbondiu
Collins, Samuel Wilson
Cooper, Alfred Bertrand
Corbaley, William Gladden
Cordell, Harold Maberry
Crisp, Frederick .Tohn
Cutting, Griffen Marshall
Davidson, James B.
Davidson, Samuel J,

277

Davis, Robert James
Dewing, Albert Becher
Dickson, Frederick William
Dickson, Robert Edwin
Dollar, Alexander Melville·
Dollar, Robert
Dollar, Robert Stanley
Donohoe, Denis
Doody, John Andrew
Doody, Michael Chic
Dougall, William Wallace
DuBois, Charles Hall
Duncan, David, P. M.
Elliot, Frederick Nelson
Elliott, Thomas
Elliott, William, P. M.
Ellison, Charles Eugene
Farrell, Chas. Henry
Fish, Charles Hull
Fisher, William Fred
Fonnesbeck, John
Foster, Arthur William, Jr,
Foster, Wallace Henderson
Frank., Leonard David
Fuller, Harvey Hollan1l
Furlong, Robert, P. M.
Gilmore, Clyde Phillip
Glascock, Wm. Leon
Graham, Mark MacDonalrl
Grnndjean, Walter
Green, Thomas Blaine
Greer, Henry Elijah, P. M.
Gustafsan, Charles
Hansen, Carson Christopher, P. M.
Hansen, George Carson
Hansen, Henry Marius, P. M.
Hardy, Douglass Harry
Harris, Phi!amon Alphonso
Hartman, Paul
Healy, Frank Jewell
Heilfron, Bernhard
Hoover, Frank Curtis
Ho~ard, Frederick Paxson
Inman, Pratt Cook
Innes, George Alexander

218
Jack, John Turnball
Jacobs, Francis John
Jensen, Cha1les 0.
Jepson, Henry
Joiner, William Daniel
Jones, Herbert Ellis
Jones, Richard Clarence, P. M.
Jones, W. Farrington, P. M.
Kaneen, John Stephen
Keffer, Guy Vickrey
Kendrick, George Freeman
Kierulff, George Dudley
King, William Joseph
Kirk, Andrew
Klammer, Eugene
Knight, William Augustus
Knittel, Henry
Kuser, John Henry
Lauck, Joseph Benjamin
Lauff, Oscar Bengua
Laulhere, Bernard Marceline
Lewis, Harry Thomas
Lichtenberg, Rudolph George
Lichtenstein, Milton
Lietz, Adolph
Lietz, Adolph, Jr.
Luders, Rudolph Otto
Magnes, Robert
Mahood, George
Mansie, William
Murchison, Neil
Marshall, William
Mason, George
McConochie, John Cecil
McLean, James 'l'homas
Meyer, Henry Bernhard
Millen, George Barnes
Miller, Albert Martin
Murphy, Felix
Murray, George, P. M.
Murray, William Paul, P. M.
Muscio, Dante Rogers
Nelson, Edgar Burton
Nelson, John
Nelson, Walter Shippee

Olmsted, Stephen Horatil)1 l". M.
Paine, Charles Sanford
Parkin, John
Parks, Ira Hamlan1l
Pearson, Otto
Petersen, Peter Henry
Pfaff, Bernhart George
Pfaff, Louis
Pitcher, Jay Clifford.
Polssan, Adolf
Porcella, Stephen
Powrie, Charles
Rea, Henry Au\ustus
Reinhold, Antone Peter
Reinhold, Peter William
Riee, William Akerman
Robertson, William Edward, P. M.
Robson, Neil Stuart
Rodden, George Frederick,· P. M.
Rudolff, Herman Hart Fred
Rydberg, August Julius
Saunders, John Algeo
Sawyer, Fred Earl
Schaer, Fred William, Jr.
Schernstein, Frank Charles
Schlosser, Henry
Schluter, Henry Arnold
Schmidt, Ben Henry
Schmidt, Carl Richard
Schmidt, Max August
Sharp, William Fuller
Shaver, Charles Bird
Shaver, Raymond Isaac, P. M.
Sherer, Rex William
Short, Frank Everett
Silveira, Felix Augusto
Sime, Frank Jed
Simpton, Frank George
Sims, John MacKenzie
Skinner, Wilber DeEsting
Smith, Lionel Hugh
Smith, Walter.Jaspur
Sparrow, Arthur Jomes
Spencer, Harry
Stipp, LO.l!'J.l'I

279

ROSTER

ROSTER
Strong, Edward Beebe
Sturtevant, Wilbur Daniel
Sweetser, Fred Wiley
Taylor, James Irving
Taylor, Samuel Penfield
Taylor, Will Penfield
'fhayer, Raymond Haven
Thompson, Charles Westley
Trumbull, Robert Hamilton
Upton, Archie Hoagland
Vanderlip, George Gore
Von Hacht, August
Von Husen, Henry Johannes
Warden, Leslie Edwin
Warden, Robert Audley
Brown, Richard Patterson

Warden, Russell Harvey, l". M.
Warren, Roy Everet
Waterman, George Burton
Wessell, William 0.
Whaley, Thomas .Joseph
Wheeler, Robert Scott
White, Lynn Townsend
Wiles, Orlo Daniel
Williams, Peter
Wilkins, James Hepburn
Woodward, Archimedes Bucknor
Woodward, Arthur Clinton
Wreden, Carl von
Zook, Edgar Thomson
-217
WITHDRAWN:
Gibson, Fred Herbert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Winberg, Per
DIED:
Codoni, Silvio Celesto

SANTA BARBARA LODGE. No.

192.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Cross Merrill, Chapla·in,
Harry Wilson Beatty, Master,
Richard Lafayette Hammer, Sen. D.,
Santa Barbara, Cal.
Frank Preston Smart, Sen. Warden, Samuel John Heyle, hm. Deacon,
Anthony White Dozier, Marshal,
J ohn Pilcher, Junior Warden,
Winfield Bradbury Metcalf, Treas., Richard Hamilton Oliphant, Steward,
Charles Adam Ott, Steward,
Robert Fulton, Secretary,
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.
715 State Street.
Alves, John Joseph
Archer, Vern Buell
Baker, Nelson Willis
Baker, Stephen
Barker, James Lawrence
Baylies, Frederick Henry

MEMBERS:
Beatty, Harry Wilson
Bires, James
Bither, Frank Denn,.
Bocock, Robert Leonard
Boeseke, Albert
Brassfield, William Leonard

280
Breslauer, Theodore Mathews
Brown, Joseph H.
Burson, Arthur Edward
Burson, Joseph H.
Caldwell, Joseph Trafton
Cavalletto, James Domenie
Citzler, Bernard
Clifford, John Quineey
Clow, Burton Roderiek
Cornwall, James Tod
Cornwall, Thomas
Crawford, William Samuel
Curran, Joseph Pieree
Dawe, George
Day, Benj. Robert
Deadriek, James G.
Dearborn, True H.
De Rieux, Lee Omer
Dodge, Edward Gardner, P. M.
Dillin, George William
Doyle, Herbert
Dozier, Anthony White, P. M.
Eaton, Joseph .Osborn ·
Erl.dleman, Jacob Joshua, P. M.
Edmondson, Alfrecl Robert
Ellis, Linnaeus T.
Emigh, Frank Edward
Farnum, Eugene Oscar, P. M.
Fergus, Oscar Warren
Findlay, James
Forrester, William Lueien
Frabe, Harry George
Fulton, Robert
Garland, Thomas
Garretson, Charles Oscar, P. M.
George, Edgar Sherman
Gerow, William Sperry ·
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Grant, Alexander Charles
Grant, William Richard
Granzin, John Andrew
Hammer, Riehard Lafayette
Hardy, Albert Perham, P. M.
Hayman, Fred
Heyl, Samuel John

ROSTER

ROSTER
Hiekey, Glenn Harrison
Higgins, Phineas Clark
Hiller, John N., P. M.
Hiller, John Roy
Hodgins, George Albert
Hone, Alfred James
Ireland, William Moore
Johnson, Charles Parker
Jones, Rufus Thomas
Kilgore, Moat Molden
Knight, Clarence Crosby, P. M.
Lory, Eugene Aime
Loveday, Claude
MaeLeod, John Alexander
Maiers, Geo. Frederiek
Manchester, Samuel, P. M.
Martin, Ai Dennis
McAvoy, James Milton
MeDavid, Irwin Alexander
MeDonald, Duncan
Merrill, William Cross
Metcalf, Winfield Bradbury, P. M.
Meyer, William Alfred
Moore, Ellis Passmore
Moore, Peter Louis
Moraga, Jose Gabriel
Moraga, Juventino
Morse, William Henry
Morton, Lee Weed
Moyer, Daniel
Neyhart, Perry Herbert
Ogan, John Higginson
Oliver, John Ross
Oliphant, Riehard Hamilton
0 'Neill, Owen Hugh
Ott, Adam
Ott, Charles Adam
Ousdal, Osborne Petersen
Paddock, Edgar Luzern
Park, Roy East
Pinkham, Samuef Curtis
Porter, Roy Samuel
Pyster, John Neal, P. M.
Ramsey, Henry Arvil
Rasey, Charles Wiilfam

Rickman, Charles
Roaeh, William Xavier
Ross, James
Rowell, William Arthur
Rowley, Charles Harvey, P. M.
Schauer, David Howard, P. M.
Schuster, Augustus Carl, P. M.
Seagers, John
Sexton, Joseph Foster
Hhoemaker, John Samuel
8ilvester, John
Skinner, Charles
Slosson, Willis Merton
Smart, Joseph Frederiek
Smartt, l!'rank Preston
Smith, Frank Burton
Smith, Frecleriek John
Smith, John Pilcher
Squier, Eugene Wesley, P. M.
Squier, Oliver Perry, P. M.

Stoddard, Thomae Albion
Taylor, Arthur Wilson
Taylor, John Brutus
Taylor, John Lewis
Teegen, John Henry
Thompson, William Hundley
Tomlinson, George Wellington
Trace, Robert Bradley
Traee, Victor Eugene
Waihel, William Clyde
Warnekros, William Louis
Waters, William Gardner
Webster, Chauneey Elemuel
Wells, Peter Catlin
Williams, Alfred Baseom
Williams, David C.
Williams, James Garfield
Wilson, Albert Calhoun Joseph
Wyman, William P.
Wynne, Grover Claude
-142

WITHDRAWN:
Noble, Clare Adams
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Daniels, Thomas Payne
Humphrey, George Walker
Mason, Stanley Cordell

Olmstead, Stephen Hart

281

DIED:
Rafl'our, Louis
Rogers, John George

· FERNDALE LODGE, No. 193.
Ferndale, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next sueceeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Nelson Damon, Master,
Frank E. Buck, Sen. Deacon,
Ferndale, Cal.
William 0. Perry, Jun. Deacon,
Frank J. Cummings, Sen. Warden, J ohn E. Gries, Marshal,
Edgar Elonzo Cornell, Jun. Warden, Ira King, Steward,
Frank Nissen Rasmussen, Treasurer, James D. Rogers, Steward,
Elbridge Chamberlin Damo", Sec., Edwin Va·rtey, Tyler.
Ferndale, Cal.

282

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Alford, Clyde Charles
Kemp, John Wellington
Alford, William Brazzilia
Keohan, Alfred
Barnes, Isaac Bloomfield
King, Ira Adolph, P. M.
Barney, William Edward
King, John Russell
Bartlett, James Frederick
Krieg, Frederic Theodore
Beck, Peter
Lytle, Edward B.
Benson, Ham! Madsen
Michael, Luther
Blackburn, Arthur William, P. M. Miller, Austin Vincent
Blackburn, Arthur William
Miner, Cyrus William
Branstetter, Walter Grant
Miner, Leander Haskins
Briggs, Herbert N.
Moore, Charles William ·
Bruner, Francis Marion
Morrison, George William
Buck, Frank Eugene
Morrison, Lafayette
Burris, Preston Ray, P . M.
Morrison, Silas V.
Caltoft, Harry
Mueller, John Gotlief
Christiansen, Hans Christian
Nelson, Martin
Church, Walter Morton
0 'Neal, Smith Demint
Comisto, Silva
018en, Lewis Herman
Cornell, Edgar Alonzo
Patrick, Zelotus Bingham
Damon, Elbridge Cham., P. M.
Perry, Wm. Oliver, Jr.
Damon, William Nelson
Pieraon, Edward Augustus, P. M.
Devinney, James Mark
Pollard, John Thompson
Dinsmore, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Price, G~orge Alexander
Dinsmore, George Charles
Racklift', Charles Clark
Dinsmore, Samuel Potter
Rasmussen, Frank Nissen, P. M.
Doe, Charles Albion
Rasmussen, Jacob
Edwards, Ray Henry, P. M.
Rasmussen, Morris
Ericksen, Jens Christian
Ring, Hogan J,
Ericksen, LP.ven Christian, P. M.
Roberts, Ellis Richard
Evans, Ernest Theo.
Robertson, .Jonathan F.
Feenaty, Rollin Stanton
Rogers, James Davis
Flowers, Frank B.
Russ, Ira Alonzo, P. M.
Foster, John Edmon P. M.
Russ, William Nehemiah
Francis, Decimo App
Samuels, Henry Charles
Fulmor, Smith
Samuels, William Martin
GanP.tt, Charles Austin
Schreiner, Charles Theodore
Gries, John Ericsson, P. M.
Scott, Ira Lewis
Hall, Thomae Jeffel'!IOn
Siples, Louis Justin
Hansen, Henry Augu1t
Shaw, Joseph Armitage, P. M.
Hicks, Leonard Salmon
Smith, George Peabody, P. M.
Hiller, Theodore Ferdinand
Smith, James
Hindley, George
Smith, Lucus Miles
Hurlbutt, Harry Ellsworth
Smith, Robert Hunter, P. M.
Inskip, Philip Seward, P. M.
Snowden, Isaac Wayne

ROSTER
Stone, Louis John
Sweet, George William
Tooby, Ernest Norton
Trost, John Henry, P . M.

283

Varley, Edwin
Waddington, Martin Thomae
Williams, Frank George, P. M.
Wing, George
-95

WITHDRAWN:
Rowen, John Murray
DIED:
Hart, Smith Clark

MOUNTAIN VIEW LODGE, No. 194.
Mountain View, Banta Clara County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next '{>receding Full Moon.
OFl'ICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS·
Ackley, William A.
Anderson, William Austin
Ayer, Willard Wilbourne
Bacon, Frank Wilfred
Baggi, Cassimir Scossa
Berry, Cyru~ Phillrick, P. M.
Bessey, Arthur Ernest
Camp, Wilber Lee
Carothers, Ed. Dawson
Chapman, Eber Owen
Charleston, John B.
Christensen, Harry Nicoli
Clark, Walter Armstrong
Covel, Llewellyn Allen
Crossman, Walter Allan, P. M.
Cutter, John Jay
Daniels, Frank Seneca
Devert, Charles Camp
Devert, Frederick Elvin
Drake, Louis Driver
Ehrhorn, Charles Horatio

Ehrhorn, Edward McFarland, P. M.
Emerson, Edwin Lester
Emerson, Frank Lincoln
Fishman, Ely Louie
FoH, William F. Farrington, P. M.
Frink, Louis Hitchcock
Free, Arthur Monroe
Fuller, Charles Rexford
Gibbs, Chester Wilton
Gordon, George Clarence
Greenlaw, William Everett
Hanson, Nelson Jorgen
Harkins, Charles John
Herndon, Edward M.
Hill, Elmer Leslie
Humaston, Charles
Hushbeck, Harry
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Kleckner, Madison Monroe
LaPiere, George Warren
MeBain, John

284

ROSTER

ROSTER

Meinicke, Edward George
Merrill, John Albellfo
Meyer, William Daniel
Mockbee, Charles Henry
Mockbee, Jacob S.
Morgan, Oscar Crellin, P. M.
Mudge, Robert Simpson
Munder, Rudolph
Osborne, Clyde Hull
Owen, Herbert
Parcell, Charles Ers1'.ine
Parkinson, Charles Roseberry
Peterson, Frederick Lawrence
Prideau, Frank William
Rankin, Robert
Rathburn, Franklin LaRue
Rengsto:rff, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Rogers, Alvin Pride, P . M.

Rogers, Arthur Blake, P. M.
Roger, Wilfred
Saunders, Frederick Kincaid
Sciarini, Charles Louis
Spaulding, Charles C.
Starbird, George Ario
Stevens, Marcus Harloe
Strong, Henry B.
Swall, George
Swall, Lester George
Thomason, Andrew Elmer.
Trulsen, Houkan, P. M.
Vishoot, Leo Harry
Walker, John William
W eilheimer, Henry
Weilheimer, Julius
Zschokke, Arthur Jacob, P. M.

-77

DIED:
Frink, Daniel Benjamin
Norris, Benjamin Andrew
Sturat, Charles Templeton

BUCKEYE LODGE, No. 195.
Winters, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Llewellyn Torleton Brock, Master,
Frank Wilson Anderson, Sen. Deac.,
Winters, Cal.
Edward Hicks Edwards, Jun. Deacon,
James Henry Haile, Sen. Ward.,
William A. Brinck, Marshal,
Dillard Ralph Guthrie, Jun. Ward., Oscar Edwin Guthrie, Steward,
Daniel Huston Waughtel, Treas.,
John Elwood Sackett, Jr., Steward,
John Elwood Sackett, Sr., Secretary, Theodore Ebert McFall, Tyler.
Winters.
MEMBERS:
Allon, Oliver Herbert
Bray, Lee Roy
Anderson, Frank Wilson
Briggs, James Henry
Baker, Edward Entrican
Brinck, August
Baker, Irwin William
Brinck, Henry
Baker, William Samuel
Brinck, Henry Roy
Bassett, William Harris
Brinck, Willia.m
Boyce, Hamilton Gay
Brinck, William Albert, P. M.

Brock, Llewelyn T.
Button, Henry Leslie
Coleman, John Logan
Crane, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Edwards, Edwin Hicks
Jo~clwards, George Nathaniel
F:ly, Benjamin
Englehart, Cleve Edmund
Fairchild, Chester Hyman
Germanhausen, William Emil
Goodyear, John Murray
Griffin, Geo. Martin
Griffin, James Benjamin
Griffin, John Frank
Griffin, Joseph R., P. M.
Griffin, Joseph
Guthrie, Dillard Ralph
Guthrie, Oscar Edwin
Haas, Henry
Haile, James Henry
Harlan, Joseph Ludwell, P. M.
Heilig, Irwin Winfield
Harling, Micajah Oglesby
Hemenway, Fred Clyde, P. M.
Hoy, Samuel M. H.
Hutchins, George Washington
Ireland, Elias .
Ish, Arthur Baldridge, P. M.
.Teans, Robert Harrison
Maxwell, Jn.mes Oliver
McFall, Theodore E.
Moler, Clarence Raymond
Moler, John Frank
Morrison, Robert

Nash, Warren G.
Nehring, Lee F.
Ormsby, Martin Powell
Renfro, Lewis Clark
Ritchie, Alexander
Robinson, Alfred A.
Robinson, James
Robinson, William Henry
Rogers, James Henry
Rucker, Edward ·
Rummelsburg, Joseph
Sackett, John Elwood, P. M.
Sackett, John Elwood, Jr.
Sackett, Louis Arthur, P. M.
Seeley, Mack Jay
Seifert, Otto Bmil
Settle, Henry Clay
Shear.e r, Levi
Shepherd, Alexander Huston
Sims, George
Sims, Wilbur
Smith, Charles Egbert
Stinson, Alonzo D.
Sullivan, Alpha Cook
Thompson, George
Wainwright, Jacob Whiting
Warder, Shadwick Morris
Waughtel, Daniel Huston
Wilson, Frederick Walter, P. M .
Wolfskill, Edward, P. M.
Wolfskill, Frank
Wyatt, Marcus Oscar
Young, Walter B.

-81

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Briggs, Robert Lee
DIED:

Guthrie, Thomas Walter

285

McNeal, Frank
Wolfe, Charles Henry

286

· ROSTER

ROSTER

'287

WILMINGTON LODGE, No. 198.
SAN SIMEON LODGE, No, 196.
Cambria, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Joseph Anton Pedrotta, Secretary,
Alexander Paterson, Master,
Cambria, Cal.
Cambria, Cal.
John Henry Bradhoff, Sen. Ward., George Scott Dickie, Sen. Deacon,
George Alfred Steiner, Jun. Warden, Luis J ohnson Renshaw, Jun. Deacon,
James Barlogio, Steward,
John Henry Eubanks, Treasurer,
James Anton Guerra, Tyl~r.
MEMBERS;
Music, Ethelbert David
Asebez, Edward
Paterson, Alexander, P. M.
Barlogio, James
Pedrotta, Guiseppe Antonio
Bradhoff, John Henry
Pryse, William Stratton
Cass, Henry Kingdon
Renshaw, Lewis Johnson
Cook, A'lexander Stirling
Righetti, Edward
Dickie, George Scott
Righetti, Francisco August
Dodson, Ritner, P. M.
Righetti, Pompeo
Eastman, Charles
Rookledge, Percival L.
Eubanks, John Henry
Sanders, Dick
Frankl, Adolph, P. M.
Steiner, George A.
Gamboni, Fredrico
Stewart, James Fack1er, P. M.
Guerra, .James Anton
Taylor, Harry Ma<.'!in
Guesa, Jasper P.
Tognazzini, Pete:r, P. M.
Hardie, Angus McFerson, P. M.
Tonascia, Charlee
Kaetzel, Philip
Tognini, A. B.
Kaneen, Charles Stephen
Maggetti, ·Peter Lorenzo
Van Gordon, Gilbert
Vanoni, Mark Antony
Muma, Irving Johnston
Watson, James William
-38
Mnscio, Abram

Wilmington, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert J . Stewart, Master,
Wilmington, Cal.
Don C. Fohl, Sen. Warden,
John S. Thomas, Jun. Warden,
Clarence H. Eubanks, Treasurer,
William Henry Barke, Secretary,
Wilmington, Cal.

Wolcott Hufford Evans, Chap/aill,
Anthony N. Winchester, Sen. Deere.,
.........................................., Jun. Deaco11,
Charles Francis Harrold, Marshal,
Benton McCoy, Steward,
Ralph Earl Cornwall, Steward,
Roland M. Railiff, Tyler.

~[EMBERS:

Barker, William Henry
Brilliant, Benjamin, P. M.
Curey, George Joseph
Carter, Henry E.
Edelman, Benjamin W.
l~ubnnks , Clarenre H.
Fohl, Won Cameron
Gannaway, Harry Easton, P. M.
!Tarris, Allyn Frederick, P. M.
Hayes, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Hayes, Victor William, P. M.
Jargstorff, Arthur Clark
.Johnson, .T. Ri~hard
Jordan, John Norma~
Kennedy, Silas Eli, P. M.
Lembke, Henry F.
Marbut, Eilgar Hume, P. M.
McCoy, Benton
McCoy, Oscar
Merithew, Per<.'y Inmnn
Mero, Frank Arthur
Miller, William

WITHDRAWN:

Moore, Wellington S.
Multhrop, Willey Howard
Myer, Charles Clarence
Opp, Erhard,
·
Hatlifi', Roland M.
Schweiser, Frededck
Seileman, Albert
Sherman, William Henry Alfred
Sjoberg, Charles James William
Slabaugh, Warren H .
Smith, Albert Victor
Smith, George Reid
Stewart, Robert J., P. M .
Sylva, Joseph Perry, Jr.
Talman, Edward W,
Thomas, John 8.
Vignes, John Lewis
Warren, Robert Boyle
Wheatley, Wilkins Winston
Winchester, Anthony N.
Wright, Charles Alex.
-44.
Young, Andrew, P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
St:1rbuck, Edward Isaac

Arbuckle, James Smith

SUSPI<~NDED

Burke, Arthur Oliver

FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES;
Sylva, Manuel Vienia
DIED:
Fosburg, Frederick

ROSTER

ROSTER

288

HARTLEY LODGE, No. 199.
Lakeport, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James M. Church, Chaplain,
Dudley Welch Greene, Master,
Fred A. Greene, $en. Deacon,
Lakeport, Cal.
Lyon Fraser, Junior Deacot1,
George H. Neal, Senior Warden,
James Wesley Beck, Junior Warden, Shafter Mathews, Marshal,
Clyde E. Lawson, Steward,
Jabez· Banks, Treasurer,
Burt G. Sayre, Steward.
Patrick R. Jourdain, Secretary,
Lakeport, Cal.
Ackley, Charles Fremont
Andrews, Chas. Truman
Atherton, David Hooper
Bacon, Charles William
B.anks, Jabez
Barnert, Charles
Barry, Robert Emmett
Beck, James Wesley
· Biggi, Angelo, P. M.
Boardman, Oscar Terry
Boggs, Lilburn Henry
Brown, Henry Nathan
Brown, James Humphrey
Brown, WiJliam Harrison
Brundige, Joseph Allen
Butler, Doron Kay
Byrnes, John Warren
Caldwell, Horace Newton
Carpenter, Herbert
Chamblin, Marcus Richardson
Church, Joseph Martin, P. M.
ChurchiII, Heber Byron
Clemenson, Peder
Cockrell, E:arry Bradley
Collier, William Bell, Sr.
Craig, Joseph
Craig, M.A.
Crawford, Woods, P. M.
Crump, John Gillion

MEMBERS:
Daily, George Leonard
Deputy, Addison Hester
Deputy, Horace Edward
Edmundson, James David
Ells, Theodore
Fearn, Walter Henry
Fitzgerald, George Richmond
Foree, George Haynes
Fraser, Lovett K.
Fraser, Lyon
Galliuo, George W.
Gopcevic Bozo Mitrov
Green, Arthur Wellio
Greene, Dudley Welch
Greeno, Fred Annett
Greene, WiJliam Wood
Hay, James Arthur Bruce
Henderson, Lewis
·Howard, Elmo Faber
Howard, Euvelle, P. M.
Howe, Frank
Hunter, William C.
Hyman, Joseph
.Jourdain, Patrick R. S.
Keathley, William Thom~s
Keeling, Herbert Venn, P. M.
Kellogg, Clarence William, P. M.
Kelsay, ,Tohn S.
Lane, William Ralph, P. M.

J,ang, George August
J,11wson, Clyde Eidred
I,eague, James Neal
J,evy, Aaron
f,evy, Joseph
Levy, Samuel
J,undborg, Konrad Magnus
Marley, Leonard Harrison
Mathews, Shafter, P. M.
McClure, John Frank, P. M.
McCoy, Alvin Monroe
McCoy, General Hugh
Mcintire, David Floyd
McLean, Daniel
Meddaugh, Oscar Edson
Miner, Mark Leonard
Monroe, Curtis Jefferson, P. M.
Monroe, ,Jonathan Daniel, P. M.
Morrison, .John WiJiiam
Murdock, George Gawn
Myers, George Welton, P. M.
Neal, George Harold E.
Neilson, Peter
Nicoll, David Cox
Polk, Robert Choteau

289

Price, Benjamin Allen
Rantz, William Dodridge
Renfro, William Hampton
Heyuoltls, Albert Milton, P. M.
Rideout, Winslow Lester
Robinson, Don Alonzo
Robinson, Leslie D.
Sanborn, Charles A.
Sayre, Burt Geung
Sayre, Morton Smith, P. M.
Schweers, Harvey Tillmon
Bleeper, Ed
Smith, William Thomas
Sylar, Daniel Patton
Sylar, John L.
Byler, George William
Utter, Joseph Perry
Voss, George Heinrich
Webb, William J!enry
West, Wirt Mercer
White, David Edward
Whitman, Adora Abial
Williams, David
York, Charles Roy

-107

SUSPI<.:NDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Storm, Greonbery Larkin

TRUCKEE I..DDGE, Nn. 200.
Truckee, Nevada County.
Stated M('etings, third Thursday of each month.
OFFICERS :

George Carson, Master,
Samuel R. Cupples, Clia.plaill,
Truckee, Cal.
William Steimer, Senior Deacon,
Frank Mitchell Rutherford, Sen W., Claude Wm. Pickering, Jun. Deac.,
James Smith Canning, Jun. Warden, Charles Adam Ocker, Marshal,
John Fay, Treasurrr-,
George Frank Kelley, Steward
Irving Francis Harvey, S ecretary,
Ellis Howard Pads, Steward, '
T ruckee, Cal.
Daniel McPhetres, Tj•for.
19

290

RQS!JlER

ROS'1:ER

MEMBERb.
Herzog, Fred
Adolph, Jacob Frederick
Hilton, George William
Agnew, David
Hirschler, Gustav David
Barton, Charles Henry, P. M.
Johnson,
Martin G.
Blinn, William Oscar
Kelley, George Frank
Bliss, Charles Tobey
Koepke, Robert Charles
Bliss, George Russell
Kruger, Eugene
Bodkin, Frederick John
Lapoint, Leonce Francois
Bofinger, George Herbert
Lawson, Edwin Stewart
Braunwarth, Wiiliam
Leach, Daniel Walter
Bryant, George ·waldo
Lewison, Jacob Louis
Cameron, Ashley Duncan
Lichtenberger, Henry Charles
Canning, James Smith
Longfellow, Sherman
Carpenter, Harry Hancock
MacWilliams, Thomas Charles
Cecil, James Edwin
Madison, Albert William
Champion, Francis
Mann, Arthur Royal
Champion, Josiah
Marzen, Joseph, Jr., P. M.
Carson, George
Maxsom, Jesse Bellamy, Jr.
Coyan, George. Ellsworth
McClaskey, George Herbert
Crabtree, John Quincy
McCullough, Franklin Jenkins
Crawford, Thomas
McGlashan, Chas. Fayettl', P. M.
Cullen, Thomas
McKay, Robert Gibson
Cupples, Robert John
McLellan, Charles Roderiek, P. M.
Cuppl<?s, Samuel R., P . M.
McNary, William Campbell
Davies, Llewellyn
McPhetres, Daniel, P. M.
Delaney, John
Micander, John
Deseve, ·Alaric
Montgomery, Charters
Dolan, Jesse Casper
Moody, Harris Lee
Doyle, Paul Maurice
Moody, William
Eveland, George Hamilton
Muldoon, Francis James
Fay, John
Nahl, Constante A.
Fleming, Charles Edgar
Niepage, John Gottholdt
Flickinger, William Amberly
Ocker, Char1es Adam, P . M.
Franzini, Morris
Oliver, George Davidson, P. M.
Frazier, Charles Edward
Owen, Thomas Jefferson
Freeman, Edgar Daniel
Owens,
Edward Lewellyn
Giffen, George Washington
Paris, Ellis Howard
Giffen, Thomas Jefferson
Parker, Samuel, P. M.
Glass, James
Painter, Charles Franklin
Gordon, Peter Henry
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
.Gowling, Jo!eph
Patterson, Seward Edgar
Gracey, Robert Christian
Pickering, Claude William
fl.uise, Sidney Franklin
Poole, Stephen Buchanan
Hartwell, Oliver Albert
Poppe, Charles Bernard
Harvey, Irving Francis, P. M.

Rabe, Augustus•Louis
Rath, Frederick Robert
Redmond, Samuel
Remmey, Ralph Walde Emerson
Richardson, Warren Vincent
Rowe, Herbert
Rutherford, Frank Mitchell, P. M.
Schneider, Adam
Schneider, Peter Gottleib
Sharp, James L.
Sherritt, John, P. M.
Shoemaker, D&vid, P. M.
Shute, John William
Eliegel, Charles, P. M.
,\!bone, Samuel \;<,'illiam
llooth. Mylo Albert

291

Smith, Frank Victor
Spangler, Clyde
Spalding, William Rufus
Steen, Nathaniel
Stelzner, William
Thomas, Charles
Thompson, William
Watkins, Grant
White, Charles Browne
Whitney, Thomas Byron
Wilkie, William Ferdinand
Young, John Russell
Wilmoth, Howard Wellington, P. M.
-115

WITHDRAWN:
Ohland, Heinrirh Fred 'k Ernest
Sharp, .James L., Jr.

RUHPBNDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.
Balaban, Andro
H<'hnmarher, Gustav Adolph

DIED:
Se.cfield, Nor111an Blias

SILVEYVILLE LODGE, No. 201.
~tat e u

Dixon, Solano County.
Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

\ubrey Austin Collier, Master,
Francis Freeman Marshall, Chaplain,
Dixon, Cal.
Stuart Grady, Sen. Deacon,
John Judwig Nagel, Sen. Warden, . Alexander Johnson, Junior D eacon,
\ngus Combs Madden, ]1111. Warden, I farry Mcfadyen, Marsha l,
John Henry Rice, Treasurer,
Carroll Harden Stephens, Steward,
J ohn Devana Grady, Secretary,
Ellis Walton Fountain, Steward,
P. 0 . Box 86~ Dixon, Cal.
Charles Martin Kirby, Tyler.

Almeida, Antone Souza
Baker, William
Bessac, Henry William, Sr.
Bissell, Harry
Carpenter, Milton Plummer

MEMBERS:
Clark, John Jackson
Clark, Crawford Calvin
Collier, Aubrey Austin
Coover, John Edgar
Currey, Robert John, P. M.

292

ROSTER

Morse, George Wyman
Currey, Robert Spencer
Moss, Rowland, P. M.
Downe, George McClellan
Nagel, John Ludwig
Dudley, Earl Delnuir
Nudd, Elmer Ellsworth
Eppinger, Herman, P. M.
Pedrick, William Stoneman
Ettlinger, Bernhard
Peters, Henry
Fischer, Carleton Edwin
Petersen, Jorden Henry
Fountain, Ellis Walton
Plummer, Charles Edward
Garnett, William Henry, P. M.
Randall,
Frank Henry
Gates, Thomae Milton
Rice, Carroll McFadyen
Grady, John Devana, P. M.
Rice, John Henry, P. M.
.
Grady, Park Edwin
Robbins, Edward Everett
Grady, Stuart
Rockwell, Myron Salsbury
Grove, Henry Clay .
Rogers, Thomas Gilbert
Grove, John Calvin ·
Ross, Albert Thomas
Hall, Lester Parker, P. M.
Schulze, Gustave D.
.
Hill, Joseph Silver
Schulze, Herbert Alexander
Holly, Jesse Blaine
Smith, Leonard B.
Hutton, Fred Albert
Spangler, Nevin Ray
Johnson, Alexander
Steans, Henry Gerald
Johnson, John Dwinell
Steinniiller, George
Kelly, Benjamin Franklin
Stephens,
Carroll H.
· Kidwell, Claud Bradley
Stephens, Robert Edmund Lee
Kirby, Charles Martin, P. M.
Timm, Charles Richard·s
Little, George Arthur
Timm, Henry R.
Madden, Angus Combo
Timm, Henry William
Madden, Winfield Rightmire
Marshall, Francis Freeman, P. M. Thomas, Wade Frank
Thomsen, Jens Peter
Martin, James Philip
Ulsteen, George
Martin, John Brinckerhoff
Ulsteen, John G.
McBain, James Alvah
Uren,
Thomas Henry
McElwaine, Robert
. -78
McFadyen, Harry, P. M.
WITHDRAWN:
Taylor, Phillip Bates

Alvares, Fred .Toseph

DIF.D:
McCune, Henry Ewalt

ROSTER

293

PENTALPHA LODGE, No. 202.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert F arquhar Train, .Master,
James Dezell, Chaplai111
226 Exchange Bldg.
Leslie Randall Hewitt, Sen. Deacon,
Isadore Frankel Whomes, Sen. W., William Ellsberry Prine, Jun. Deac.,
Melville Austin Sheldon, Jun. Ward., Glenarvon Behymer, Marshal,
William Rhodes Hervey, Treasurer, Edgar Harris Cline, Steward,
William Purington Musaus, Sec.,
Ingall William Bull, Steward,
605 F ay Building.
H enry C. Register, Tyler.

Adams, Earnest Bennett
Adams, George Price
Adams, William
Addison, Rufus Choate
Allen, Herbert Smith
Allen, William Sayre
Anderson, .John Thomas
Anderson, William Felix
Armstrong, Charles Wesley
Armstrong, William De.l ano
Arnold, George Leonard
Atchison, James Roberts
Atwell, Thomas
Averill, George Euward
Avery, Robert Henry
Ayres, Henry Washington
Bacon, Frank William
Baerthlein, Albert William
Bailie, Charles Girvin
Bailey, Ralph Waldo
Bair, Darius H.
Baker, Rouie Brown
Balch, Allen Christopher
Barber, William Marshall
Barclay, David Erle
Barlow, Allison
Barto, Fred Oliver
Barton, Herbert Parke
Baumgardt, Bernhard R.

MEMBERS:
Beach, Oscar Clarence
Beamish, William Maitland
Beattie, Robert Fountain
Beckett, Wesley Wilbur ·
Behrens, .Herman Albert
Behymer, Glenarvon
Belcher, Harry
Benbrook, Charles Mallarll
Benckley, Frank Keith
Bennett. Albert Alfred
Benz, Carl Doiel
Berner, Gustav Emanuel
Beschor, Gustavus William
Best, John
Bingham, Hubert Abel
Birth, Otto Fred
Blackwood, John Howard
Blake, Charles Wesley
Blake, Clarence Howard
Blakeley, Harry Bowen
Blossom, Edmund Wheadon
Blumve, .Tohn Augustus
Bodman, Richard Stuart
Booth, Harry
Boothe, Charles Beach
Bonynge, Walter Alfred, .Jr.
Bortells, Frank Lily
Borthistle, John Jacob Hamilton
Bosbyshell, Edward Christian

ROSTER
Boswell, Frank Moore
Bower, Euzema Clarence
Bower, Leland Sanborn
Bowers, Alex. Forrester Neill
Bradrick, George Marion
Brain, Webster Cook
Brewer, John Aukeney, P. M.
Brian, Davi<l
Brill, William
Brossmer, Sigmund
Brown, Charles Henry, P. M.
Brown, Clement A., P. M.
Brown, Frederick Arthur
Brown, John Alexander
Brown, Paul Clifford
Brown, Robert Rufus
Bryant, Albert James
Bnll, Ingall William
Bulla, Robert Nelson
Burke, William Edward
Burns, John
Burns, Thomas Walter
Butler, Willard Wall
Calder, James Squair, P . M.
Calkins, John Summerfield, P. M.
Cason, Edward Woodburn
Caswell, William Mitchell
Cavanaugh, Charles Michell
Chambers, Richard Henry
·Chase, Charles Wheeler
Chipron, Arthur Paul
Church, Stephen Hayes
Churchill, David Lawrence
Clark, Herbert Hamilton, P. ·M.
Clemens, Nicholas
Clement, William Arthur
Cline, Edga1 Harris
Cline, Ross Carroll
Cobb, Edward Sigourney
Cochran, Harry Lacy
Cochran, William George
Cocke, John Vinton
Coddington, Fred Elmore
Coldwelle, Joseph Arthur
Jole, Jerrett Wate1

Collins, Burton Vincent
Collom, Charles Dwight
Connett, Harry
Coon, Willard Judson
Cooper, Henry Hill
Copes, Jacob Marion
Copps, Alfred Sumner
Cottle, Rainsford Ensor
Cridland, Edwin Louis
Crouch, Harry Bryon, Jr.
Cunningham, Robert Gilmore
Currier, Ezra Newton
Curry, Elvin James
Cuzner, James
Davies, John Rolan<l
Davis, Edwin Ransome
Day, George William
DeCamp, Clarence Eastman
Devins, Charle.s Alonzo
Deyoe, Fred Theodore
Dezell, James
Diamond, Charles Boardman
Dietsch, Curt Oscar
Dilly, Louis
Dougall, John Park
Duncan, Hugh Welch
Duncan, Rex Dowler
Dunsmoor, Cylos Taylor
Eagon, Henry Charles
Eakins, Herbert Pingle
Earl, Edwin Tobias
Eberle, Franz Xaver
Eckardt, H\]go
Eckley, Frank Knight
Eckley, William Henry
E ckman, Arthu1 Wilson
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Edwards, Alfred Hannibal
Edwards, David Kitzmiller
Eldridge, Septimus Tu1tin
Ellis, Albert Max
Ellis, Morris
Engle, William Henry
Enyeart, Clare11ee DeRuyter
Erwin, Thaddeus MeFarland

ROSTER
EKtes, Donald Keith
Fargo, Dwight
Fellows, Alfred
Ferguson, William
Fisk, Charles Edward
Fleishman, Adoli' Gabriel
Fleming, Richard Lee
Ford, George becar
Ford, Joseph Drouillard
Foster, James
Foulkes, Thomas
Francis, Ira Johnson
Francisco, John Bond
Fry, Abraham
Fulkerson, Tunison
Furrey, William Cobbett
Gardner, Gilbert Emery
Gehrken_s, Christian Magnus
Genrich, Henry Francis
Gibson, Edward David
Gibson, Hugh Simons
Gilbert, Charles Silliman
Gilham, William Thomas
Gill, William H enry
Ginaca, Camille Armand Joseph
Gist, James Black, P. M.
Glasgow, Alfred Stevens
Goodhue, James William
Gra ham, Archibald Douglas
Gray, Benjam_in
Green, Samuel Miles
Griffith, John Tomlineon
Guthrie, Arthur Stanley
Guthrie, Edward Marshall
Haab, Benjamin Albert
H agerty, Harry Guy
Hale, Francis Seraph
Hall, Charles
Hall, George
Hamilton, Albert Newell
Hamlin, Ralph Cunningham
Harding, Charles Wesley
Harms, Herman
Hart, Frank John
Hartmann, Frederick Charles

Hartup, Edmund
Hatch, Homer Lee
Hawgood, Harry
Hayes, Louis Augustus
Heffelfinger, Raymond Wiley
Hellman, Irving Herman
Henderson, David Cockran
Hend,erson, John Armstrong
Hepp, Adolf
Herington, Monroe Davis
Hervey, William Rhodes, P. M.
H err, George Frederick
Hetherington, Isaac
Hewitt, Leslie Randall
Hewitt, Randall Henry
Hillc•r, Sidney Warner
· Hilliard, Samuel William
Hinman, Clifford Irving, 'P. M.
Hitchcock, Harry Symington
Hobock, William Cates
Hofer, Albert Ray
Holmes, William Taylor
Holton, George Mortimer
Hoppins, Henry haac
Horwitz, Samuel
Hough, William Arthnr
Houselibe, William John
Howard, Perry Alonzo
Hudson, Frank Dale
Hudson, Josiah Whitcomb
Huebsch, Charlee Frederick
Hughes, Henry West
Hunnewell, William Bowne, P. M.
Hunter, William Alexan<ler
Hussey, William Clark
Imendorf, Gustav Adolf
Ingels, Thomas Jefferson
Innes, Daniel
Irwin, Guy Kilmer
Jarrett, Benjamin Samuel
.Tesberg, Paul August
.Tohnson, Benjamin
.Tohnson, Martin Edwin
Jones, Cummins ButterAelJ, P. M.
Jones, William Wood

2116

ROSTER

Jordan, Elmore Chidister
Judson, Richard Paul
Judson, Walter Horaae
Judy, James Howard
Keeley, Edward Ellsworth
Keifer, John Henry
Kennedy, William, P. M.
Killian, Joseph Adolf
Kincaid, Eugenio Hough
Kingsley, John Amos, P. M.
Kinsel, Ernest Frederick
Kirkpatrick, John Lawrence
Knecht, George Gustave
Knickerbocker, Niles
Knotts, Harry Hope
Koeipfli, Joseph Otto
Kohler, Charles Frederick
Kroeger, GuRtave Christian Theo.
Kuhrts, Jacob
Kurtz, Eugene, William
Ladner, Albert Edwin
Lamb, Thomas Robert
Lang, Gustav John
Lankershim, James Boon
Laraia, Joseph Nicholas
Latterner, Prederick Henry
Law, Horace
Lawrence, John
Lea, Homer
Leake, Edward
LeMasters, James Calvin
Lester, William George
Levy, Leander, P. M.
Lewis, William
Lichtenberger, Louis
Lieber, Louis Otto
Little, William James
Livermore, Philarmon Patten
Long, Edward Haynes
Low, Alvin Harrington
Low, Earl Francis
Low, Triumph Crawford
Lucas, Charles Fred
Luebbers, William Bernard
Lupton, Edwin, P. M.

Macleod, Malcolm
Madden, Michael Henry
Marble, Byron Monroe
Martin, Julius Herbert, P . M.
Martin, Russell Clinton
Mason, John Cheney
Matheson, John Luther, P. M.
Mathews, William Burgess, Jr.
Maull, William Knapp
Mayberry, Harry Hauschild, P. M.
Mayne, William Hawthorne
Maxson, Edmund William
Mead, Charles Abiel
Merrill, Charles Calvin
McCallum, Cyrus Alexander
McCan, David Chambers
McClure, John Clarendon
Mccomas, Charles
McComas, Jesse
McConnachie, John
McCray, Morris Lynn
l\fcCully, Charles Scott
McFeely, William Kenyon
McKeeby, Lemuel Clarke, P. M.
McKE>nzie, Charles Bell
McKirahan, Merlin Evart
McMahon, Peter Augustus
M~Master, Walter Huntington
McNeely, Malachi Toland
McReynolds, Orval Omar
Melligan, Albert Wood
Miles, George Clark
Millard, Marshall Albert
Miller, Charles Rubins
Miller, Frank Henry
Mills, Fredrick ·Shannon
Mills, Theodore
Mohn, George Frederick
Montgomery, James Andrew
Moore, Alfred
Morton, William Ona
Moser, Gregory Frederick
Mulford, Shobal Patton
Munsey, Fred Edwin
Murray, John Emmett

ROSTER
Musaus, William Purinton, P. M.
Mnshet, William Cresswell
Myers, Burdette Richard
Myers, Thomas Chalmers
Neilson, Thomas
Nelson, William Matthew
Ness, Wm. Henry Clay
Neves, Alsey James
Newell, Guy Amos
Nichols, Thomas Edwin
Nicolay, Ferdinand Frane1s Louis
Noble, William
Norton, Lowell Prinston
Noyes, Charles Frederick,
Ohse, Albert Edward
Osborne, Henry Zenas, Jr.
Osborne, Sherrill Blasdel
Oxnam, Thomas Henry
Page, Roger Sherman
Page, Samuel Lester
Park, Lee Wesson
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Frank Tudor
Parks, Lyman Bertram
Parkyns, George Arthur
Pearson, Atlee Rhodes
Pease, Edward William
Pease, Niles
Peipers, Paul Clarence
Pendleton, C. Welles, P. M.
Perkinson, Al Vernon
Perry, Irvin David
Peters, Robert
Peters, Samuel John
Pettigrew, Eugene T.
Pfunder, Albert
Phelps, William Rees
Pickit, Daniel
Pickrell, Esau Addison
Pierce, Clarence Warner
Pierce, John Nelson
Pillsbury, George Eber
Platt, Henry Plummer
Pomeroy, Abram Ehle
Ponedel, Leopold David

297

Potter, Lewis Arlington
Powell, Thomas
Powers, Luther Milton
Price, J obn A.
Prince, James
Prine, William Ellsberry
Probasco, Robert Purdy
Purdin, George Chester
Rebert, Charles Louis Eugene
Redding, Elza Leander
Reese, William Buchanan
Reese, William Kirke, Jr.
Register, Henry C.
Reid, Frank Edwin
Reinhart, John Graves
Retzer, George Washington
Reynolds, Elbert Wilson
Rice, Harry Earl
Righetti, Robert
Ritch, Joseph Royal
Robertson, Andrew
Robertson, Edwin Chase
Robinson, David Elmer
Robinson, William Whipple, P. M.
Rouse, Wylie John
Rowan, Valentine James
Russell, John Newton, Jr.
Ryan , Jnmo~ Tillman
Salisbury, Samuel Scott, P. M.
Sanborn, Eugene Franklin
Seeley, Calvin Mason
Selover, Sidney, P. M.
Senseney, Anthony Emory
Sheldon, Melville Austin
Shelton, Harry Ashton
Shepard, Abraham Dummer
Sherer, William Walter
Shibley, John Kenneth West
Silverwood, Francis Beatty
Simon, Ernest George
Slaughter, John Louis
Small, Richard Ellsworth
Smart, Carlos Levi
Smith, Everett Russell
Smith, Ira Bacon

2\J8

Smith, Irving Raynor
Soults, James Kennedy
Southwick, Thomas Smythe
Stanbery, Donald Warren
Stanley, Henry Young
Stanley, Henry Wells
Stavnow, Charles Ashworth
Stearns, Ernest Roger
Stein, Fred William
Stephenson, Fred Alex., P. M.
Stevens, William James
Stewart, George Hadley
Stewart, William
Stimson, Marshall
Stivers, Charles Gaskill
Stoll, Arthur Lincoln
Stoll, George Henry
Stone, Orville Devere, P. M.
Storrow, Samuel
St. Pierre, William Charles
Strathearn, Robert
Sutherland, Ed. Paine
Taylor, Edward Lloyd
Taylor, William Cylouas
Thatcher, Frank Lawrencl!
Thielen, Ralph Alexis
Thoma.a, Benjamin Franklin
'fhomas, David Charles
Thomas, Everett Beecher
Thomas, Herbert Ivor, P. M.
Titus, Elmer Maurice
Tompkins, Edward Payson
Topel, Robert Frederick
Train, Robert Farquhar
Tresslar, Elkanah P.
Tucker, Edwin Franklin
Turley, Lester Joseph
Tuttle, Victor Hugo
Tyler, Ormond Eugene
Varcoe, George, P. M.
Variel, Robert Henry F .
von Ache, Abram Garriso11
von Ache, Wilson Canard

ROSTER

ROSTER
Wade, Robert David
Wadleigh, George Hutchillllon
Wall, William Dillard
Wallace, Thomas William, P. M.
Ward, Harry Clay
Warren, Pickett '.Latimer
Way, Archibald Chisholm
Webb, Benjamin 'Oliver, P. M.
Webster, Julius Elmer Harold
Welch, William Henry Seward
Westra, Andrew
Wheaton, Alonzo
Whedon, Willard Loring
Wheelan, Frank M.
White, Arthur William
White, Harrie Leslie
Whittier, Henry Frederick
Whomes, Isidore Frankel
Widner, William Burton
Wiggin, John Osborne
Williams, Daniel A.
Williams, George Miller
Williams, Seth Stanley
Williams, William James
Wilmans, Henry Stickney
Wilson, Christopher North
Wilson, James
Winkler, William Carl
Wintrode, Frank Cunningham
Wood, Charles Modini
Woodruff, George Hobart
Woods, William Thomas
Woodworth, John Joesph
Woves, Charles Roth
Wragg, Carl Clifford
Wright, Charles William
Wright, Chauncey Arthur
Wright, John Gibson
Young, Milton Kelly
Young, Thomae Watson
Young, Warren Smith
Younger, Philip

Aylesworth, Walter Eugene
!lrable, Charles Elliott
llubbard, Albert Allen

WITHDRAWN:
Johnson, John Smith
Luther, Charles Howard
_Platt, Robert Stark

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMEN'l' OF DUES:
Andrews, Clair George·
Howard, William Woolworth
DIED:
McManis, John Rodman
Pollock, William Smith
Robinson, Robert
Shorb, Andrew Stephen
Trout, John Henry
VanNuys, Isaac Newton

Botsford, William Finn
Brown, Asher Park
Crawford, James Seth
Dunsmoor, Charles Henry
Lloyd, Henry Joseph
McLain, William R. T.

CONFIDENCE LODGE, No. 203.
Castroville, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Walter Charles Buttle, Master,
Pacific Grove, Cal.
Harry John Hall, Sen. Ward.,
Manuel M. Silv°a, lvnior Warden,
Thomas P. Clark, Treasurer,
Robert Henry Martin, Secretary,
Castroville, Cal.

Joseph Northrop, Chaplain,
Christopher Dudley, Sen. Deacon,
Andreas Anderson, Junior Deacon,
Charles Rose Whitcher, Marshal,
Alb.e rt J. Foster, Steward,
Ambrose Henry Hall, Steward,
Thomas Prince Labree, Tyler.

MKMBF:R~:

-503

Andersen, Andreas
Black, Victor Delmas
Butler, Albert Newton
Buttle, Walter Charles, P. M.
Brown, Clinton Edward
Chappel, Thomas
Clark, Charles Thomas
Clark, Thomas P.
Collins, Raymond Leslie
Collins, Walter Ross
Dudley, Christopher, P. M.
Estabrook, Claren~e Robert
Foster, Albert J.
Hall, Ambrose Henry

Hall, Harry .John
Labree, Thomas Prince
Lang, Frank Herbert
Martin, Robert Henry
Miller, John Edward, P. M.
Northrop, Joseph, P. M.
Schmidt, Louis Hansen
Sherfeck, John MoJ!at
Silva, Manuel M.
Skaarup, Nels Peterson
Uttley, George
Whitelier, Charles Roe13
"Wilson, Lew H.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Butler, Thomas

-27

300

ROSTER

ROSTER

SALINAS LODGE, No. 204.
Salinas, Monterey County.
Stated meetings fourth Friday in each morith.
OFFICERS:

F. Et1gene Dayton, Master,
John H . Foster, Senior Deacon,
Salinas, Cal.
Edward F. Rossi, Junior Deacon,
Charley L. Pioda, Senior Warden, Louis Schneider, Marshal,·
Robert D. Logan, Junior Warden, Robert Warnock, Steward,
Charles ]. Whisman, Treasurer,
Elmer P. Alexander, Steward,
Francis A. Abbott, Secretary,
Joseph A. G. Adcock, Tyler.
Salinas, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Arthur Johnson, P.·M.
Cornett, Ingolf B.
Abbott, Carlisle Stewart, P. M.
Day, Frank Beardsley
Abbott, Edwin Kirk, P. M.
Dayton, F, Eugene
Abbott, Francis Alvin, P. M.
Dorn, Carl Delos
Duncan, James
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Alexander, Elmer Pendleton
Duncan, William Thomas
Alexander, John King, P. M.
Durner, Fred W.
Adcock, Joseph Anthony George
Edwards, Thomas Cl(t.y, P. M.
Faulkner, Geo. Francis, P. M.
Anselmi, Charles Pasqu11-l
Austin, Walter Pike
l<'aw, Thomas Phelix
Ball, Henry Seymour
Feliz, Frederick P.
Bardin, James Alfred
Fenton, Edward
Beck, John A.
Fenton, Louis Edward
Bell, Harry G.
Forster, Charles Alfred
Bennett, John Baron
Foster, John Handle
Benson, William Henry
Fulle, Charles J.
Bernt, Daniel Martin
Gordon, Samuel Buffington
Grau, Jeppa A.
Bertlesen, Werner
Black, William Madison
Greenlaw, Alfred George
Blanchard, Charles N.
Grimes, John William
Bromley, George Alfred
Hamilton, William John, P. M.
Brassel, Edmond Horace
Hansen, Albert C.
Burke, Charles Ephram
Hare, Llewellyn George
Cahoon, James
Harris, James
<..:handler, Benj. Bradley, P. M.
Harvey, John H.
Clark, Mark Carr
Hayward, Harrison Nelson
Collins, John F.
Hebbron, Edward Lincoln
Hebbron, John James
Cook, Thomas W.
Hill, Charles Caleb
Coons, George M.

llJll, Wellington W.
lllll, William Jay, P. M.
llllle, Edwin Miles, P. M.
lloey, John Crais Frank
llolfman, Henry
llollingsworth, Everett Thomas
llopps, Frank Jacob
11 ughes, Ralph L.
llunn, George
IIudson, Harry M.
Joy, Charles
.Joy, John Green
Joy, Thomas Phair
Kalar, David Gilmore
Keef, Melvin R.
Kellogg, Frank-Frisbee
Keogh, James
Keonecke, Adolph
Krauss, Albert Gray
Lacey, Claud Fountaine
Lacey, George Edwin
Lawson, Peter Christian
l,emon, George B. Jr.
Lingschied, Robert F .
Macquoid, Ray P.
Madeira, Donald Arthur
Majors, Ergo A.
:Malloy, James B.
Malloy, James C.
Martin, William ,Jefferson
Masengill, James Talbot
McClary, Samuel Hayes
McLaine, William Laughlin
Melander, Charles R.
Meyers, Fred
Michell, Frederick
Murphy, Henry C.
Murphy, James H.
Nelson, John
Nissen, Christian
Norris, Walter E.
Olsen, John Peterson
Outhier, Clyde B.

301

Palmer, James
Peaslee, Geoff J.
Petersen, John Frederick
Petty, John Moore
Phillips, Thomas E.
Peirce, Samuel Cassel
Pioda, Albert Woodbridge
Pioda, Cllarles Lawrence, P. M.
Porter, D 'Arey Allan
Porter, John Brewer
Porter, Robert Lindsay
Powell, Simeon
Rankin, John E .
Renison, Thomas
Riley, James Ross
Robertson, Alexander, P. M.
Robinson, Ashmun
Robson, Thomas
Romie, Paul T.
Rosendale, Charles B.
Salacci, Batisti
Salacci, Mateo
Salkeld, John
Schmechel, Frederick W., P. M.
Schneider, Louis, P. M.
Scott, John B.
Snyder, Jacob
Steinbeck, John Ernest, P. M.
Thomsen,. Arnold
'l'hompson, Cagie Grand
Thompson, Oscar
Tortenson, Nels Otto
Tynan, Michael
Vanderhurst, William, P. M.
Vanilerhurst, William Michael
Vetter, Philip
Warnock, Robert
Webster, James Ashley, P. M.
Welt, William G.
Whisman, Charles Joel
Winham, Frederick W.
Winham, Harry
Wood, .Homer W.
-144

ROSTER'
SUSPENDrm

FOR

NON-PAYMENT

Boukofsky, Henry
Roe, Lee Wilson

ROSTER
OF

DUES:
Cleek, Andrew William

Sattrini, Jame!
Seecor, Vallette V.

303

WITHDRAWN:
. Ma rkham, Samuel Stephen
McOuinness, Henry
DIED:

DIED:

11 ayward, Martin Hayn on

Fitch, Alfred P.

STANISLAUS LODGE, No.

206.

Modesto, Stanislaus County.

NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205

Stated. Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Paskenta, Tehama County.
OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next succeeding Full Moon·.

vVilliam l Toward Kirk, Mcrstcr,
Andrew Nis~on Frost, S en. Deacon,
Modesto, Cal.
Willard K anada Gwin, Jun. Deacon,
Sylvian Simon Latz,, Srnior Ward., Thomas Henry Kewin, Marshal,
Hugh Joseph Downey, Jun. Ward., C eorge Albert McCarthy, Steward,
c;corge Russe.JI Stoddard , Treasurer, Louis Walter Stevens, S teward,
X ewton Edward Leek. Spartary,
Charles Henry Griffith, Tyler.
l\fo<lesto, Cal.

OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Burrows, Ira Ancil
Burrows, Orlando Arthur
Burrows, Rufus Gustavus, P. M.
Conklin, Marcus Lafayette
Corrington, Steven Munson
Dyer, Zimri Parker
Flournoy, Thomas Francis
Flournoy, William Edwin
Foreman, Benjamin Franklin
Friday, Michael
Green, Hiram Renney
Hartford, John William
Holderer, John
Houghton, Ansel Miller
Houghton, Francis, p, M.
Houghton, Oscar William, P. M.
Houghton, Ray Francis, P. M.
Hnlen, John Thomas
Hull, Daniel Mosier, P. M.
.Johnson, John William
Knight, Henry D.
Logan, Allison Robert

Luce, Isaac Daniel
Markham, Edgar Roscoe
Markham, William Henry
Marques, Francis Marion
McKinley, John
Mitchell, David Edgar
Mitchell, David John
Morris, James Nelson
0 'Brien, .James William
Osborn, Sullivan
Price, John Robert
Price, Stephen Howard
Rupert, William Franklin, P. M.
Scribner, Henry Alvin
Scribner, John Alex. T.
Smith, Albert Nutting
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Stapp, Walter Hall
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherland
Will, Ariel George
Winters, Sterling Price

-43

Andrews, Richard
Bailey, Robert Covert
Baker, John Robbin
Beard, Thomas Kennan
Benson, Robert Crewdson
Bledsoe, Alfred Leroy
Bledsoe, Willis
Brown, William J ackson
Cameron, George Washington
Cavanaugh, Emi Oscar
Clark, Henry Harrison
Courtright, Charles Milo
Courtright, .Charles Milton
Craig, Robert, P. M.
Crowe, Harry Spencer
Davis, James Alfred
De Lappe, Fred Russell, P. M.
De Yoe, Na than Emery
Downey, Hugh Joseph
Elder, Robert
Elias, Solomon Philip

MEMBERS:
Elliott, Charles Tappan
]<'eight, Albert Volney
l<'oley, Robert J<Jmmett
Francis, Everett Allen
French, Wm. Oscar
Frost, Andrew Nisson
Fulkerth, Loring William, P. M.
Goeffert, George Stepp
Goeffert, Victor Virgil
Green, George Ernest
Griffith, Charles Henry
Gwin, Wm. Kanada
Harp, James David
Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Hatch, Herbert M.
Hatton, William Henry, P. M.
Hawkins, Jared Waldo
Jones, Claud Lee
.Tones, Edward Rowe
Kewin, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Kewin, William Edwnr<l

ROSTER

304

ROSTER

Kirk, William Howard, P. M.
Shoemake, Albert B.
Sloan, Charles Edmund
Latz, Sylvain . Simon
Smith, Burton
Leek, Newton Edward
Spenker, Joseph Christian 'l'heo.
Long, Joseph Johnson
Macumber, George Dexter
Sperry, Charles Alvaro
Stafford, John Ivy
McCarthy, George Albert
Stevens, Walter Albert
McQueen, Hugh Albert
Stoddard, George Russell, P. M.
Meinecke, Edward
Surrliyne, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Meyer, Alex.
Swan, Charles Donald, P. M.
Minniear, Charles Wilson ,
Swegles, William
Mourat, Julian
Thompson, David B.
Muirhead, George A.
Tregea, William Leonard
Needham, James Carson
Turner, John Daniel
Park, Howard
Vogleman, Henry
Perley, George
Warner, Myron
Phillips, Robert
Weyer, Frederick Karl
Plato, Gabriel David
Weyer, Gustavus Adolphus
Player, Lionel Pagett
Whitmore, Vaughn Daniel
Rea, Thomas Levi
Wood, Harry Jacob
Severin, Johannes Henry
Zander, Frederick Henry
Seversen, Theodore
-85
Shafer, Claude Stephen
WITHDRAWN:
Will, John August Thomas
Beiley, John Valentine

ANAHEIM LODGE, No.

207.

Anaheim, Orange County.
Stated Meetings; Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Faulkenstein, Master,
James Allen Knapp, Chaplain,
Anaheim, Cal.
Thomas Lee Hoag, Senior Deacon,
Chas. Henry Eygobroad, Sen . Ward., Earl Russel Abbey, Junior Deacon,
Morris W .. Martenet, Jun . U' ard.,
Henry Martin Adams, Marshal, '
Charles Arthur Boege, Treasurer,
Clarence Edw. Chamberlain, Stew.,
William Henry Chambers, Sccretary;Harry B. Pearson, Steward,
Anaheim, Cal.
James. Henry Enearl, T)•ler.
Abbey, Earl Russell
Adams, Henry Martin
Adams, Walker Willis
Asher, Isadore

MEMBERS:
Ba:rr, Erwin
Beebe, Bird Valentine
Bigham, .John Sterling
Boege, Charles Arthur

Hradford, Albert Hartwell
Bradford, Albert Sumner, P. M.
Cailor, Otto Tad
Chambers, William Henry
Coleman, Wm. Dallas
Crowther, Walter Henry
Crowther, William, P. M.
Davis, Albert
Draper, Robert E. Lee
~:lbinger, John Christian
J•]nearl, James Henry
gygobroad, CharJes Henry
l!'alkenstein, William
Gardiner, Alex.
Gibbs, Frank Nelson
!Hfford, Gustavus Adolphus
Goodrich, Elmer Lovel
Grimshaw, Thomas Spencer, P. M.
Hatfield, Bernard
Jlatzfeld, Julius Philip
Helmsen, Joseph
Hill, Oliver
!Ioag, Thomas Lee
Holcomb, Chester E., P. M.
Holman, Sidney
Houck, Frederick Horn
Hutt, James Hagar
.Johnson, Alexander
Johnston, James Robert Holmes
Knapp, .Tames Allan, P. M.
Krebs, Richard
Krick, Philip Hermann, P. M .
Lagman, Octave Antouie
Lagorgue, Prnnk Reed
Dunham, Fey Montgomery

Lee, Fred Wesley
McLauchlin, William
McNelloy, Wallace Hiram
Miller, Louis Everett
Nagel, August
Olmstead, Edward Lamont
Paschall, Samuel ,Jefferson
P<1arson, Harry Barkman
Pickering, .James McKenzie
Porter, Arthur Lee, P. M.
Quarton, Wesle;v Pocklington
Resh, John
Riniker, Henry
Rockwell, Wm. Henry
Rogers, Barnett G.
Sandilands, Gerald Warrenden
Schade, Gustav
Schwenckert, William Otto F.
Shank, Clyde Earl
Spielman, Harry Garfiehl
Spoerl, Richard Carl
Teel, Samuel David
Tipton, Will Silas
Van Derveer, Jacob L.
Waldorf, Creighton 0.
Walker, John Franklin, P. M.
Wallop, William Thomas
Webb, William Philip
Weisel, Peter Joseph
Wickett, William Herald
Wiese, Fred
Wilson, Clarenre .Tohn Ramsey
Wilson, Robert
Youngbluth, Fredericlr August -76

WITHDRAWN:
Rea, John Blacklock

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hose, Walte.r Miner
Smith, Ethan Dwight
Tyler, Norman
DIED:
Cowan, Argus Brutus

20

305

306

ROSTER

RIO VISTA LODGE, No.

ROSTER
208..

Rio Vista, Solano County.
Stated Meetingit, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Lewis Henry Churd1, Master,
Thomas George Lewis, C/4(1.;lain,
Rio Vista, Cal.
Frank Barton Smith, Sen. Deac<HJ,
Ivan Knox Hamilton. Sen. Warden,. Julian Buel Hoyt, Junior Deacon,
Neil Russel Hamilton, ltm. Warden, August Gloff, Marshal,
John McCormack, T1·easurer,
Harry Kerrison Stewart, Steward,
Matthew Stewart, Secretary,
Wm. Alexander Stewart, St11ward,
Rio Vista, Cal.
Jed Clarke Stanton, Tyleti.
MEMBERS:
Brown, James Thomas
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
Christensen, Christian Fr'.)derick
Makemson, Winfield Scott
Christensen, John, P. M:
Markawitz, Abram Jack
Christensen, Martin
McCormack, John
Church, Emery Ephraim
McCormack, Thomas
Church, Louis Henry
Nicholl, John Robinson
Church, Mark Israel
Perry, Horace Grant, P. :M.
Church, Smith Calvin
Pollard, ·Louis Elmer
Davis, Charles Kirkpatrick
Pressley, William Burrow.., P. M
Donald, Robert
Proctor, George Lawrence
Dirr, Henry .T ohn
Rainwater, Leo Jasper
,
Dozier, Edward Charles, P. M.
Rice, Cyrus
Dozier, Mortimer Roberts, P. M.
Robinson, John
Emigh, James Livingstone
Rush, John Nelson
Emigh, Milton
Smith, George Richard
Emigh, William Jarvis
Stanton, Jed Clarke
Fleischer, Benedict
Stewart, Daniel C.
Gloff, August, P. M.
Stewart, David Alexander
Hamilton, Ivan Knox
Stewart, Harry Kerrison
Stewart, Matthew, P. M.
Hamilton, James
Stewart, William Alex.
Hamilton, .Tames William, P. M.
Talbert, John
Hamilton, Neil Russell
Talbert, John Milton, P. M.
Hansen, Henry Wilson
Timm, William Delbert
Hollenback, Albert Harry
Titherington, Frank
Hoyt, Julian Buel
Totman, William Nuell
Herzog, Emil
Weckwerth, Herman
.Jordan, George Albert
Westgate, Edward William
Kelley, Albert Gallatin
Lewis, Thomas George

30i

WITHDRAWN:
E,·erley, Phillip Jncob
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Caldwell, Euler J ones

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, :first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
l'liny Hayward Murphy, Master,
Henry Matthew Elberg, Sen. Deaco11,
San Luis Obi·spo, Cal.
John Haney Hickey, Junior Deaco11,
lohn Sherman Bailey, Sen. J.Varden,
Harlan. Clarence King, Marshal,
lohn Clifton James, Jun. Warden, Arthur Meck, Steward
l'hillip Franci.o; Ready, Treasurer,
Ross Philip McLain, S;eward,
Francis Horatio Throop, Secretary, James Squire, Tyler.
San Luis Obispo, Cal.
MEMBERS:
'\drianre, \\'niter Doughty, P. M.
Colen, Arthur Max
i\lbertoni, Nicola
Cook, Neil
i\kers, Noel Prentice
Cormack, .•Tames
t\ lien, Milton Davis
Cottmire, William Lewis
Anderson, Leroy
Cox, H. Milo
I rano, Edward Angel
Crocker, Adolph
\ rhuekle, .Tames Amith
Crocker, Jac~b
t\uetin, James Henry
Dart, Leroy Harris
llniley, .John Sherman
Dawson, Byron Francis
ll11rr, Wm . .Jefferson
Defosset, Lucien Julius
Bayley, William Stowe
Donnelly, William Lester
llerry, Edward Harvey
Dorn, Fred Adolphus, P. M.
lllack, Edward William
Duncan, Benj. Coleman
llrallford, Walter Wiley
Eastman, Gustave Mawirh
llrooks, Benjamin, P. M.
F.ggleston, Byron Clarence
llrooks, Samuel Wright
· 'F]lberg, Henry Matthew
llrown , Forrest Elam
Fifield, Willard George
C 'npps,
William
Filipponi, Dionigi
Oarpenter, Walter Clyde
Fonrnier, Ulric Henry
I 'nrtwright, Roden Maxwell
Francis, James Dorsey
Oa11, James
Fry, Herman C.
llherry, Frank Wright
Fry, Pleates
Oberry, William Wesley
Fuller, William Earl

308
Fye, Clement Raymond
Gardiner, Ralph
Garrison, Daniel Marcus, P. 11/I,
Gates, Charles Joe
George, John Thomas
Genter, Irwin Stokes
Gilbert Mathias
Green, Aaron
Green, Abram
Green, Morris
Greenstreet, Harry Ferdinand
Gregg, Paul Mills
Hankenson, Roscoe Ralston
Hansen, William
Hawkins, George Mn.rshall
Heckman, George Qlarence
Herzog, Carl
Hickey, James Washington
Hickey, John Haney
Hoff, Marcus Jacob
Holbrook, James
Hollister, John Hubbard
Hollister, John Hubbard, Jr,
HumphrPys, Charles James
Jack, Fred Bartlett
Jack, Robert Edgar, P. M.
Jacks; Doniphan Richard
Jackson, Fred Charles
Jackson, Paul Kingsley
James, John Clifton
.Jo.h nstou, ,Jewett Miner
Johnson, Chris Louis
Jordan, Edward Morris
Kahl, Arthur Spangenburg
Kalfus, ,Joseph Leland
Kelshaw, John
Kenner, Wm. John
Knight, William
King, Harlan Clarence
King, Joseph Milton
Koshland, Max. Isadore
Lake, Herman Wingate
Laloli, James
Lamb, Charles William
Lang, Clarence Cuthburt

ROSTER

ROSTER
Latimer, Benjamin Griffith
Leaf, Robert Emil
L1nvis, Elmer Merril
Lewis, Jesse Elisha
Lima, Manuel Frank
Lind, Royal Aubrey
Luchessa, Antonio
Lusardi, John Ferdinand
Lyon, Lloyd Oscar
Marshall, William Thomas
Mason, Arthur Steele
McClelland, George Howard
McDowell, James Lee
McManus, Lewis Merton
McNeil, Arthur James
Miossi, Bernardo
Meck, Arthur G.
Meck; Oliver Hazzard Perry
Metz, William Henry Harrison
Merrill, Arthur Merton
Merritt, George, P . M .
Miller, Charles Arthur
Morgan, James Aaron
Muenter, Edward
Mulch, Joseph Rudolph
Murphy, Pliny Hayward
Murray, Wm. Jackson
Negrich, Thomas Geo.
Nelson, Albert, P. M .
Noah, Louis Meyer
Noble, Joseph Weyman
Osborne, Louis John
Palmer, Charles Wesley
Payne, Howard Morgan
Phillips, James Henry
Post, Albert Merrill
Pozzo, Frank, Jr.
Proper, William George
Raque, Charles Albert
Ready, Phillip ~ancis, P. M.
Reed, .Irvin
Rees, Richard
Righetti, Robertino
Righetti, Robert Marcu~
Rockwell, James Justice

Hoss, George. Lincoln
Sanborn, Clarence Kendall
Sandercock, William
Sandercock, William Fred
Schoenfeld, David Chester
l:!ehulze, Henry Frederick
Seaton, Joseph Henry, Jr.
Sethmann, Charles Joseph
Shaw, Herbert '' illiam
Silsby, Bernard Delford
Simpson, Frank Berry
Sinsheimer, Otto Oscar
Sinsheimer, Louis Felix, P. M.
Smith, Charles Ezra
Smith, Frank C.
Smith, Lyman Elbert
Smith, Walter Otto
Sn;ith, Wm. Herbert
Smith, William John
Snyder, Delos Daniel
Spencer, William Harrison, P. M.
Squire, James
Squire, Robert D.
Staniford, William Buckley

Johnson, Delwin Ernest·

Stewart, Chas. Wm.
Story, George
Steele, Edgar Willis
Stover, Wm. Miller
Sutliff, Ralph Parker, P. M.
Throop, Francis Horatio
Thyle, Irwin Seymore
Tobriner, Isaac
Trewick, Roger
Tucker, Ira Ward
Unangst, Edwin Peter
Van Sickle, George Arnold
Ver Veer, Joseph
Vollmer, Edward
Wade, George Willis
Walraven, Francis Wells
Weeks, Lewis Drew
Weir, John·Porter
Whieher, John, P. M.
Wiley, James William
Williams, John
Wilson, James Eugene
Woods, Victor Hugo

-183

WITHDRAWN:
Waterbury, James Edwin
Varney, Frank L.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF
Robbins, Frederick Olmstead

L owe, Robert L.

309

DIED:
Schwartz, William

DUES:

:-no

ROSTER

ROS'l'ER

FRIENDSHIP LODGE, No.

210.

San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Joseph Pash, Master,
George Washington Worthen, Chap.,
143 Carrie St., San Jose, Cal.
Leighton Copeland Brownton, S. D.,
Louis Eugene Wilson, Sen. Ward., Guy Archibald Vaughan, Jun. Deac.,
John Jacob Schmidt, Jun. Warden, George T'homas Lemon, Marslcal,
George Butterfield McKee, Treas., Edward Howard Kocher, Steward,
Theodore McKay Wright, Secretary, Ernest Andrew Abbott, Steward,
45 W. Santa Clara St., San Jose,William Henry Lamrock, Tyler.
Cal.
MEMBERS:
Adams, James Franklin
Brown, Francis Marion
Adams, William Hawkins
Brownell, Elmer E.
Allen, Napoleon Bonaparte
Brownton, Leighton Copeland
Anderson, Marten Theodor
Bruch, Louis
Bullard, Arthur Rebard
Anticevich, Anton 0.
Arthur, James Gordon
Burbank, Gideon W ebsie_r
Bacon, George Graham
Burlingame, Leo D.
Bailey, Lamartine Edward
Cadwell, Richard Grant
Bangs, Fred Herbert
Cambers, Joseph Benjamin
Barker, Charles Alphonse
Campbell, Roy Stuart
Barker, Frank Page
Carling, Edward
Cauch, Frederick Leslie, P. M.
Barlow, George Q.
Centola, .Joseph
Barry, John
Bauer, Hermann Wilhelm
Chambers, Arthur L.
Berr, Augustus William Rudolph
Chipman, William Fitch
Beckert, Alex. Felise
Clegg, Milton -Manford
Bein, Louis Phillip
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Bell, Harry Edson
Conrad, Earl Valises
Berdrow, Asa
Coulter, William A.
Cox, William Thorburn
Bernard, Edwin Price
Bodley, Thomas
Cozzens, George .Washington
Cross, Walter C.
Boomer, Preston Hamilton
Borchers, Bernard William
Cureton, Horace
Bostwick, Isaac Davis
Davis, George Arthur
Bozelle, Nate Overman
Denker, William Henry
Bragg, George Henry
Dorn, Arthur J,emuel
Briggs, John . Gregg
Drake, George
Briscoe, Ivan Bowen
Draper, Wilbur Harry
Broedel, Michael
Drexler, Henry Otto

Easterday, John Davia
F.:dmans, Frank Ten E., P. M.
Edmans, Walter John
Edwards, Henry William
Edwards, Wilbur James
J<Jngwicht, Harry
Entriken, Benjamin Frank
F.ntriken, Roy Lace
Evans, Thomas DeLacy .
Ewing, Harry Jason
Falconer, Sherman Deforest
Feldman, Carl Fred
Finley, Samuel Henry
Fisher, Charles Julien
Fisher, Hamilton Henry
Fisher, John Edwards
Fitzgerald, George Lee
Fleming, George Alex.
Polsom, Henry Cathers
Fox, Abraham D.
Fox, Edward
Gable, Harvey Euward
Garnes, John ~'ranklin
Gee, William
Geer, Albert Warren
Gillespie, Walter Weir
Gish, Ralph Mason
Gorr, :(,ewis Lawrence
Gosbey, Perley Francia, P. M.
Graham, John Martin
Gray, Albert Maywood
Gray, Robert Brew
Gripenstraw, Louis Arthur F.
Haberdier, Oliver Ambrose
Hamilton, Joseph C.
Hansen, John Owen
Harris, James Thomas
Hatman, Frederick David
Hayden, Zachariah Taylor
Hayes, Albert Cummins
Heckenroth, Louis
Hemsworth, William Henry
Heriot, Robert Alex.
Hill, John Tanner
Hines, George Clayton

311

Hines, William Meredith
Hogg. Charles Henry
l:iowe, William B.
Howes, George Averil
Howorth, Frank Herbert
Hunkins, Charles Frederick
J ar.kRon, Charles E.
Jackson, Lewis
Jacobs, Charles Louis
Jenkinson, Wm. Ellis
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
.Jordan, Peter A.
Kent, Herbert Lynd
Kenyon, George Phineas
Kingdon, George Augustus
Klnge, Theodore Otto
Knight, Isaac Alli1on
Kocher, Edwin Howard
Kocher, .Jacob John, P. M.
Kocher, John Randolph
Laud, Oscar '1'.
Lamrock, William Henry
Lee, Robert Alex., P. M.
Lemon, George Thomas, P. M.
T,enzen, Theo.
Liddle, James Ward
Lighthall, George Elisha
Lloyd, Wiiliam ··rhomas
Long, Peter, P. M.
Lotz, Joseph Albert, P. M.
Lunsford, Lewis Monroe
MacBride, Colvin Garland H.
Mac.Nair, Donald ' Wallace
Magee, Edgar Emmett
Main, Delbert. Harold
Main, Ea:rl Paine
Manhire, Alfred William
Mantz, Warner Henry, P. M.
Marckres, Cl~ir Cutting
Marckres, Harvey Austin
Mathews, Henry Davenport, P. M.
May, Frederick
McCornick, Samuel
McCoy, Luther Addison
McDougall, Giles Eggleson

310
McGinnis, James Sumner
McKee, George Butterfield
McKee, James Franklin
McLaurin, John James
McNeil, Albert Beebe
Me'r igot, Albert Francis, Jr.
Metcalf, Ambrose Burtton
Metcalf, Philey Henry
Montgomery, Seymour Thomas
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Moore, George Henry
Morrison, Leslie
Murgotten, Alex. Phillip
Murgotten, Francis Clark
Naf, John
Napoli, Joseph
Neame, Edgar Austin
Newcomb, Charles Thomas
Nikirk, Frank Austin
Nikirk, John Hill
Noble, William Worden
Norrish; Joshua
Northern, William LeancJN
Nott, Edwin
0 'Doherty, Henry Palmer B.
Orcutt, Leslie Squire, P. M.
Osgood, Marion Huqson
Pallesen, Christian
Parker, Edwin Byron
Pash, Joseph
Paull, William Walter
Pawley, Casper
Payne, William Arthur
Pearce, Samuel, Jr.
Porter, Daniel A very
Potts, John Samuel
Purington, Byron
Quilty, Frank Edward
Ramstad, Albert George
Rasmussen, Christian
Ratz, Frederick Henry
Raven, Walter Leroy
Redmond, Edward
Reese, William T.
Riebsam, Wm. Erwin

Ripperdan, Herold Davis
Rogers, Morgan Protheus
Rogers, William James (1)
Rogers, William James (2)
Ross, Fred Cary
Rothermel, George Lewis
Rouse, Ernest G.
Rucker, William Walter
Ryan, John James
Sarzin, Joseph
Schaaf, Daniel Louis
Schmidt, John Jacob
Schroder, Albert
Schumacher, Frederick
Schumacher, Frederick W.
Seller, Albert John
Shew, Nathaniel Lawrence
Shrader, Rufus Woodruf
Shumate, Albert E.
Singletary, Charles Fisk
Skiff, Herman Albert
Small, Charles Ken<lall
Smith, Bradley
Smith, Francis Adolphus
Smith, Francis Jacob
Smith, Peter Barr
Smythe, Delos William, P. M.
Soderstrom, Ernest Theo.
Sonniksen, Louis
Spitzer, Frank Easterday
Stackhouse, John Wm.
Stern, Frederick Marcus
Stevens, Orvis
St. John, Marshall B.
Stone, William Boulogne
Sweitzer, Erwin Francis
Thimann, Bernhard Conrad
ThClmas, Rene! Kent
'frace, Merritt Pasco11, P. M.
Trengove, James
True, Wilfred Carlisle
Van Dalsem, William 's todrlard
Vaughan, Guy Archibald
Von Boden, Bernard H.
Von Dorsten, Henry August

313

ROSTER

ROST:E:R

Voshelle, Francis S.
Warren, Raymond Edward
Warring, Bertrand, Franklin, P. M.
Wayland, Elbert Francis
Weisbach, Lewis Charles
Wells, George Summers
Wetmore, Clyde Timothy
Whift'en, Roscoe Albert
Whitehurst, George Arth1u
Whitehurst, Joel Shipp
Williams, Charles R.
Bartelle, Erle Eugene

Williams, William Henry
Willkomm, Adolph
Wilson, Archibald
Wilson, George C.
Wilson, Louis Eugene
Witherspoon, Jose Edgar
Worthen, George Wash., P. M.
Wright, Theo. McKay, P. M.
Young, Clarence G.
Zuver, Oren L.

-259

WITHDRAWN:
Cruzan, John Alexander
EXPELLJ<JD:
Smith, Walter M.

Chambers, Seymour
Dittus, John Jacob
Fogle, John
Groves, William French
Hogg, Henry Clay

DIED:
Kennedy, William Charles
Pieper, Charles Henry
Riehl, Adam
Spitzer, Lewis Amiss
Welch, George W.
Woodrow, William Larkin

SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 2n.
Hollister, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings second Friday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Collins Monroe Brown, Chaplain,
Carl Leonard Ladd, Master,
Richard William O'Bannon, Sen. D.,
H ollister, Cal.
Clarence Melvin McKee, Sen. Ward., William Andrew Johnson, Jun. Deac.,
James Alton Cushman, Jun. Ward., Archie D. McKinnon, Marshal,
Heylin Beaumont Harris, Treasurer, Ralph Richey, Steward,
William B. Jamieson, Steward,
Roderick Shaw, Secretary,
Francis John Titus, Tyler.
Hollister, Cal.
Agnew, Gilmore
Barnhisel, Fred Lewis, P. M.
Bingaman, Joseph Wheeler
Black, William Walter
Blank, William Henry

MEMBERS:
Bolton, Eugene ·Elsworth, P. M.
Boucher, Joseph
Briggs, Nash Corwith, J ·r., P. M.
Briggs, Nash Corwith
Brown, Collins Monroe

314

ROS'rER

Bruder, Emil August
Chaney, William, P. M.
Cole, George Kendall
Cole, George Washington
Croxon, Jeremiah John
Cushman, James Alton
Dalzell, William Francis
Daniel, Charles Mellen
Davis, James Philip, P. M.
Davis, John Oscar
Dean, Bernard
Dowdy, Elmer
Dunlap, William Anderson, P. M.
Earle, Fred Antipas, P. M.
Estes, Gustavus Kendall
French, Theo. Hugh
Fullerton, James
Green, Alfonso
Greenep, Ernest William
Grubb, Joseph Roy
Hamilton, ~~red Judson
Hamilton, Judson Gerould, P. M.
Hardin, Richard Owen
Hardin, Robert Marshall
Harris, Heylin Beaumont
Hinz, Albert Wm.
Hodges, Clarence Augustus
Hollingbery, William Voss
Hubbard, William
Hubler, Manuel Rena
.H.ull, Leonard Charles, P. M.
Hutz, Leonard
Jean, George William, P. M.
,Tenkins, Elmer Ray
Johnson, William Andrew
Ladd, Carl J_,eonard
Ladd, Leonard Murch
Lauritzen, Christian Otto, P. M.
Lauzenberg, Julius
Lowe, John Thomas
Marcum, Leo
McConnell, George Montgomery
McCray, Alfred Marion
McDonald, Daniel

ROSTER

McDonald, Daniel Alfonso
McKay, Alex. J.
McKee, Clarence Melvin
McKinnon, Archie D., P. M.
Nash, Francis Orlando
Newton, Henry Bascom
Noble, William Francis
0 'Bannon, Richard William
Orr, Albert
Ottolini, Ludovico
Phipps, Franl< Wesley
Pruett, Wm. Clifford
Reating, Otto John
Richardson, George Honis
Richey, Ralph
Rockwell, Edward D."
Ruckledge, Robinson, ~. M.
Shaw, George Eden
Shaw, Roderick
Shore, Frank E.
Shore, Richard Elijah
Skow, Ham Christian
Skow, Peter Christian Lauridsen
Slatore, James Augustus
Steinbeck, John Adolf, P. M.
Steinbeck, Wilhelm Peter, P. M.
Stephenson, Robert Praxedes
Tebbett, James Henry, P. M.
Thomas, Leonard Lyon
Thunassen, Wm. Edgar
Tiffany, Edward William
'l'itus, Francis Joseph
Trau, William Robert
Turner, Albro Griffith
Wagner, Charles Henry
Wagner, Hiram
Walberg, Lars Erick
Wapple, George, P. M.
Welch, John Lee
Williams, Richard B.
Williamson, Herbert Monroe
Will, Grant
Wright, John Amos

-97

J•:1•kert, William Lloyd
11 opcroft, Charles

315

WITHDRAWN:
Petersi Adrian John
Reimer, Fred

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Black, George A.
DIED:
Crow, William Jasper

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. 212.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Hall, Railroad A venue.

OFFICERS:
I lerman Erdwig Rahlman, Master, Simon McGregor McDonald, Chap.,
.\ugust Frederick Mayer, Sen. Ward., William George Green, Sen. Deac.,
IIenry Edward Nolan, Jim. Warden, Charles Clement Thomas, hm. Deac.,
.\dolph Frederick Fitschen, Treas., John Keller, Marshal,
William J. B. Warner, Secretary,
Alfred Bothe, Steward,
1637 Oakdale Ave., San Francisco. Carl Ludwig Boehringer, Steward,
] ames Smart Bailey, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Copus, Jay Nelson
Aaquist, Thorwald
Ashford, John Parker, P. M.
Crawshay, Edmund M. A.
Crystal, William
Aver, James Henry
Cron, Eugene Charles
Bahrs, John Jacob
Bailey, James Smart
Crosby, Horton Jones
Bailey, Phillip John
Daudibon, Alexis
De Gear, J efl'erson
Baraille, John William
Bareilles, Eugene Louis Emile
Desrosier, Charle~ Hercules
Beck, Carl Marinus
Dieterich, Christian
Berendsen, Julius
Dippel, John
Berry, Wm. Anthony
Dirks, John Alex. Ceaser
Blank, William
Dodds, James
Bothe, Alfred
Doran, William Richard
Bothe, Reinhold
Duncan, Franklin Thomas
Brown, Kenneth Mardi
Dunshee, Cornelius E., P. M.
Caubu, Peter
Dunshee, Willis Adrian
Cerf, Emile
Dunwebber, Charles Christian S.
Christsen, James
Eggert, August.
Cochins, Ludwig
Elkington, James Edward, P. M.

316

ROSTE~

Elkington, William Edward
Kuhlman, Diederick
Faber, Matthew Peter
Lampley, William Jerome
Fairclough, Freeman
Levridge, Henry Wm.
Fairgrieve, John
Lima, Milford Tolentino de Fiquero
Felt, John William
Litchfield, Charles Amica!
1''etz, Joseph
Locke, James Brown
Fitschen, Adolph Frederick, P. M. Long, Piercy Vincent
Flood, Charles
Luttringer, Charles
·Fulton, Charles Everett
Mahlstadt, Henry
Green, Wm. George
Mangels, Hans Mac. C.
Haas, Leonard
Mayer, August Frederick
liamilton, James William
Mayer, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Hamm, Sigmund
McDonald, James Alex. John, P. M.
Hansen, Carl
McDonald, Simon McGregor, P. M.
Hansen, Samuel, P. M.
Mr.Donald, William, P. M.
Harder, Henry .Tohn
McDowell, Thomas
Hare, Elias C., P. M.
McPherson, Charles Edward
Hare, John S.
Mead, Ray
Harlow, Albert Sylvester
Meley, Frank
Harlow, George Winfield
Merritt, Edwin Ashley
Harlow, George Winfield, P. M.
Miller, John Edward
Harrison, Ellis
Miller, Samuel
Hartwich, Sophus Ferdinand
Milly, Uharles
Hasse, Arnold
Milly, Charles Amond
Hayman, Clifton Renold
Milly, Joseph
Holland, John Paul
Mitchell, John James
Hope, Harvey Robert
Moffatt, Henry
Horn, Bernard Jeremiah
Moulton, Levi Everett
Horn, Frederick
Morris, Leon Ephraim
Ingold, Charles August
Morris, Simon
. Iverson, Ma<lsen Jensen, P. M.
Muir, William
Johanson, Elis Ragnar
Muller, C. Alvin, P. M.
Johnson, Arthur Herbert
Muller, Johan Die Frederick
Johnson, Wm. Henry
Mund, Leo
Katz, Frank Philip
Myers, Jacob
Kay, David Scott
Neilan, Richard, P. M.
Kehlenbeck, Henry
Nelson, Charles
Keller, John
Nolan, Henry Edward
Kirsch, Louis Charles
Nonnenman, Charles
Kiepert, Charles Frank, P. M.
Nonnenman, Louis
Klein, Maurice
Partridge, John Slater
Kollmer, Jacob
Pedersen; John Peller
Koppe, Albert ·
Petersen, Peter
Krah!, Stephen
Peterson, James Peter
Kramer, Louis George, p; M.
Pfeiffer, George Peter

ROSTER
Piver, Edward
Potting, Henry Frederick
Quayle, Erhelred Edward
Quinn, James Henry
Rahlman, Harry Frederick, P. M.
Rahlman, Herman E.
Rapp, Charles Frederick
Rasmussen, Ha.rate
Reiser, Edwin Oliver
Reusch, Jacob
Riccomi, Frederick Joseph
Riccomi, George Leo.
Roundey, George H.
Sambuck, Prosper 8.
Schenkel, P!>ter .Joseph
Schultze, Albert Walter
Schultze, August Henry
Schultze, William Frederick
l:;impson, Josiah Adam
Smale, William James
Smith, George Bebington
Smith, Henry
Smith, James Rasmussen
Soares, Joseph Dias
Stamps, James Murray

317

Strahle, Paul Charles
Stricker, Henry
Stumpf, John
Stumpf, Peter Benjamin
Suhr, Geo. Louis
Symon, Samuel Collins
Symon, William McSagan
Tanner, William
Taylor, James King
'ferrill, John Gladding
Thomas, Charles Clement
'fhompson, Charles
Todd, David ~yron, P, M.
Uhlenberg, Chester H.
Ulenberg, Peter Hansen
Valente, .Joseph L.
Warner, William John B., P. M.
Wedemeyer, Bernard Henry
Welch, James Millar
Willment, Chas. Henry
Wells, James Rodrick
Wilson, John Archibald
Wolter, Herman Matthew
Worsdale, Henry
Zimmerman, Philip
-178

SUSPENDI<JD FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Montgomery, John
Bancroft, John Royal
Blangy, Samuel Francis
Danielson, Albert Hjalmer

DIED:
Davis, Ben
Hansen, Peter .

SAN BUENAVENTURA LODGE, No. 2r4.
Ventura, Ventura County.
Stated Me~tings, firMt Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
J arnes Blackwood Stone, Chaplain,
Fred Mercer, Master,
Earl Edward Moss, Sen. Deacon,
Ventura, Cal.
:t'vlilton Wm. Philipps, Sen. Ward., Warren Milton Stockwell, Jim. Dea.,
Delbert Arthur Reese, Jmi. Warden, David John Reese, Marsh/,
Scott Milton Wilson, Stewa.rd,
George Cook, Treas11rer,
Ernest Harry Frost, Steward,
Jacob Lewis Argabrite, Secretary,
William Wesley Masterson, Tyler.
Ventura, Cal.

318

.. ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Lewis Whiting
Frost, Ernest Harry
Argabrite, Jacob Lewis
Fulkerson, James Frederick
Argabrite, Joseph Mayo, P. M.
Gerry, Edmond Waite
Arkley, William Wallace
Gibson, Wallace Robinson
Baker, Frederick Neill
Giddings, Herbert Alvaro, P. M.
Baker, Frederick William, P. M.
Giddings, James Horace
Barker, James Edward
Gosnell, Ira
Barnes, Earl Elsworth
Gosnell, Truman Barrick
Barnes, George Silverman.
Grant, Kenneth Peter, P. M.
Barnes, George Lynwood
Hall, Edwin Seth
Barnartl, Frank Everett
Healy, Charles Edward
Bateman, Walter Watts
Herold, Stanley C.
Beckley, Leroy Salsbury, P. M.
Hirschfelder, Julius Eli
Bogart, Mark E. Vander, P. M.
Hornung, .t'aul
Bowker, Donald Glenn
Hubler, Rolla A1onzo
Hunt, Richard Orville
Bynum, John C.
Johnson, George Wing
Calio, Gardner Ranlett
.Johnson, Walter Edson
Canet, Edward C.
Jones, Paul Howell
Cannon, Christopher Wren, P. M.
Kilson, George Elmer
Cannon, Marion, P. M.
r~amb, Robert Bertram
Cannon, William Herschel
Lemmon, Charles Fisher
Cavanah, Howard Edward
Lincoln, Leslie E1.trl
Chaffee, ,John Hyde
Lincoln, Willis Phillip, P. M.
Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace
Marple, James Albert
Clay, Henry
Masterson, William Wesley
Cook, George, P. M.
,.,CcCandless, Benjamin Wright
Urantlall, George Brady
Cunnane, Thomas Eilwar•l, P. M. McFarlane, .Tohn
McGuire, William
Daly, Tliomas Henry
McKay, John Daniel
Day, James Allen
DeArman, David Hamilton
McKay, John William
Dennis, George Palmer
Menzel, William
Dennison, Dadd Rodes, P. M.
Mercer, Frerl, P. M.
Moss, Earl Edward
Dewing, Alonzo Wilson
Neel, Henry Harrison
Doty, Frank Carlton, P. M.
Neel, 'l'homas Wm.
Dunning, Erlwarrl E.
Newbauer, Joseph Sigimond
DuYal, Horace Elmer
Newby, Thomas Sheridan
Farwell, George E .
Nideffer, Rowe Ricker
Featherstone, James William
Overmire, Milton Strader
Foster, Eugene Preston, P. M.
Peck, Henry ERsington
Fox, Logan Oscar
Philipps, Milton W.
Francis, Willard Hugo
Poplin, Adley Greenfield
Fraser, Allan Polic
Power, George Coffin
Frost, Charles L.

ROSTER .
Pringle, Lewis A very
Rasmussen, James Peter
Heady, Charley Edwin
Rearly, Lester Seward
Ready, William Edward, P. M.
Reese, David John, P. M.
Reese, Delbert Arthur
Reese, George Llewellyn
Reynolds, James Erlward. P. M.
Rii·henbaker, Harry Charles
Robinson, Richard Owen
Rogers, Merle John, P. M.
Roth, .Joseph
Sackett, George Lincoln
Selby, Edward Milton
Sexton, Walter Ralph
Sheldon, Charles Henry
Slosson, Leonard Butler

31!)

Spier, Thomas Wm.
Stockwell, Wnrren M.
Stone, James Blackwood
Sudd~n, Robert Cowperwait
Taylor, Scott Freeman
Thurmond, Gwyn D.
Todd, Theo.
Toland, Thomas Orlando
Turner, William Henry
Vincent, William Cluett
Wadleigh, Fred H.
Wadleigh, Orville Austin
Walker, James Alfred
Walker, James Russell
Wilcox, Wm. Calvin
Wilde, Wellington Goodwin, P. M.
Willett, Muktar
Wilson, Scott Milton
-124

" Coa te~ , .Tnna•i< Arthur

WITHDRAWN:
M<'David, Irwin Alexander

Reppy, .John llenry, .Jr.

DIED:
SirnpRon, 'Volney Alex.

• Afflllatec:\ during the year.

OAK GROVE LODGE, No. 2r5.
Alameda, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OF.1:ICEJ:tS:
J ames Neils Eschen, Master,
James Alfred Collins, Chaplain,
1303 Caroline Street, Alameda.
fl enry Christian Lassen, Sen. D1ac.,
Charles Alex. Allardyce, S en. Ward., Otto Henry Fischer, Jun. Deacon,
l lenry Ferguson Strachan, Jun . W ., Frank Billington, Marshal,
Henry Miller Hammond, Trearnrer, Henry George Ildert.on, Steward,
Oswald Lubbock, Secretary,
Spencer William Brown, Steward,
Box 12, Alameda, Cal.
George Sturtevant, Tyler.

Abbott, Chas. Tvenstruz
Abrahamson, Frank BernBrd
Ackroyd, Eli Peddie
Addison, James

MEMBERS:
Adison, Samuel
Aitchinson, Gavin
Albertson, Albert Geo.
Allardyce, Charles Alex.

320

Ros·rER

Angelo, Wallace Purmort
Anthony, Edward Requa
Bacon, Lewis Goodwin
Bailey, Edward LaForge
Bailiff, Conlin
Bancroft, Harlow Palmer
Barber, James Burton, P. M.
Barstow, Frank Edward
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel
Bartell, Harry ·
Barton, Phineas Wesley
Bates, Joseph Clement, Jr.
Baurhyte, Wm. H. Moore, P. M.
Baxter, Robert William
Beach, Arthur
Beegle, Charles Warren
Benedikton, John
Benseman, George Adolph
Benson, Benjamin Harlow
Benzing, Christian
Biddle, Edward Samuel, Jr.
Bigelow, Charlt>s Edwin
Billington, Frank
Binder, Frederick
Bird, Robert Barnabas
Birkholm, Soren Gudme
Blanding, Herbert Bowen
Bliss, John George
Bolton, George
Boodt, Jacob
Bordwt>ll, Frank Victor, P. M.
Borle, Charles Arnold
Born, Aug. Julius Wilhelm
Boyden, James Marion
Bradley, Theo. ·
Bramman, Henry S.
Branch, Royal Daniel
Brevoort, John F.
Brower, Charles William
Brown, Brainard Creswell
Brown, Cyrps Austin
Brown, Herbert Hamilton
Brown, Horace Percival
Brown, Nanowa Theo.
Brown, Spencer _W illiam

Brush, Frank .Spencer
Buttrick, John Farrar
Cameron, James Angus
Carpenter, Hugh Slicer
Cattermole, Henry John
Chapman, Isaac Newton
Chipchase, Chester Garfield
Christensen, Peter
·
Christensen, William Peter
Christy, James Robert
Chucovich, Stephen Daniel
Clark, John Russell
Claussen, Henry
Clifford, Joseph
Collier, Richard Bartlett Howard
Collier, Richard Henry_.
Collins, James Alfred, P. M.
Combs, Burton Elliott, P. M.
Conrad, George Edgar
Conrad, Joh::i.
Cooley, Walter Wood
Copeland, Isaac
Copeland, William Forest
Cormeny, Eugene, P. M.
Cornelius, Albert Wardner
Cortelyou, Loekeman Shi!.fter
Counties, Robert Hays
Courtney, George Henry
Cramer, Charles Wesley
Culver, Charles Marshall
Daniels, Fred Hall
Davis, Percy
Davis, Samuel Haines
Davis, William Henry
Deas, Harry Wigfall
De Berna, Carlos Francis
Decker, Henry Peters
Decker, Orlando Thomas
Decker, Robert Blrtin
Delius, Auto Ferdinand Wilhelm
Dibert, Wayne Clay
Dickson, Albert John Hobbs
Dill, John William
Doane, 'fhomas HenshelwJod
Doe, Charles Paden

ROS'l'ER
Dow, Henry Alvah
Droscher, Frank
Duncan, Thomas Wm.
Dungan, Eugene Leon
J•:bhets, Arthur Steven~on
f<Jisfeldt, Theo. Adrian
Bisfeldt, William Theo.
}';ldred, Havila Pembroke
l'Jllsworth, John
~;mmons, George Wellington
J~schAn , James Carl
~Jschen, James Niels
l·~~chen, Sidney Lawrence
l~yre, Mannt>l Gelwick
Jo'inke, Frederick Henry
1''ischer, Charles Frederick
Fischer, Otto Henry
Fisher, Bertrand Lee
Fleming, Frank Mosely
Foderer, George Stevens
1''oderer, Joseph Frank
Fortner, Clinton Alfred
Fowler, James
Frisius, Fred 'k Albert Aug.
Frodden, Volkert Meinert
Purbush, George Ernest, P. M.
Oale, Edwin Gardner
Gentle, Ira Manary
Gibbs, Albert Wm. John, P. M.
Gibson, William Maurice
Gilfillan, James CairnP.s
Gillogly, William Jay Syms
Glissmann, Henry
Godfrey, Henry Squire
Goodwin, Selden Jewell
Greene, Lucius Ellwood
Griffiths, George Chandlar
Guddal, Louis
Guion, Earl King
Hacke, Frederick Henry
Hacke, Henry Christian
Hall, Gilbert. Cowles
Hally, Frank
Hammersmi_th, Frank Arthur
21

Hammersmith, George
Hammond, Anselm Charles, Jr.
Hammond, Charles John
Hammond, Charles John, Jr.
Hammond, Henry Miller, P. M.
Hansen, Hans Peter
Hansen, Hans Thomsen
Harris, Edward Frisby
Harris, Robert Eugene
Haskell, Walter Williams
Haynes, William Ellsworth
Heaney, Frank Noble
Hebrank, Charles Lewis
Hegeland, Harry Rasmus
Heidt, Charles Louis
Helm, Lucien Everett
Helmstein, Carl Leonard
Henderlong, William Randolph
Henderson, John Norman
Henrici, Harry Hermann
Herman, Charles Louis
Hesemeyer, Frederick William
Hess, Henry
Hesse, Walter Alex.
Higby, William, P. M.
Hildreth, George Francis
Hiller, Henry Frederick
Hintz, Henry Louis
Hirschfeld, Emil
Hodges, William B.
Hodgkiss, William Henr.v
Roeber, Eugene Green Lee
Roeber, Harold Hubbell
Holbrook Raymond
liolt, Edward James
Howlett, Frank
Howlett, John Charles
Hughes, Waltt>r Renwick
Hunter, Robert Draper
Hurlbut, Frederick Hayne~
Ilderton, Henry George
Innes, Arthur Gray
Tnne~, Walter Babson
.Jnckson, Frank Kennedy

821

32~

ROS'l'ER

Jackson, Joseph Wilson
.Jacobs, Alex.
Jacobs, Saul. Roberts
James, Edward Pond
James, George Lionel
Jamieson, John Cameron, Jr.
Jenkins, Frederick Eugene
Johnson, Christian Ole
Johnson, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Jones, Emmet Renwick
Jones, George Danna
Jones, Lee Savage
Jones, Ralph Arthur•
Jordan, Wm. Henry
Kaufmann, Emil Hermanu
Kebby, Harry Maurice
Kemp, Edward Henry
Kenney, Arthur Edwnr<l
Kenny, Franklin Augustus
Keyes, Charles Edward
Keys, Ernest Mulford
Keys, Harold Harte
Kiefer, William Colfax
Killam, Geo. T homas
Klein, George Henry
Klein, Peter
Kline, Lucien William
Knowland, Joseph
Knowland, Joseph Russell, P. M.
Knowles, William Brook
Knudsen, Christian Aug.
Koerber, August
Kollmyer, William Blythe
Konigshofer, Leon Andrew
Kouff, David
·
Kouff, Maurice David
Kramer, Ralph
Lancaster, Chester Jackson
Lancaster, JoReph
Langley, Charles Lester
Langren, Louis L.
Larkin, Amos Stephen
Larsen, Niels Christian
Lassen, Hans Christian
Lassen, Henry Christian

ROSTER
Lehners, Carl Frederick Aug.
Lessig, Charles Herbert
Leu, Adolph Cha!'les
Lewis, George Leonard
Leydecker, Arthur Herman
Leydecker, Theo. William
Lipman, Harrison Randolph
Littleton, Waiter Dunaway
Lohse, Nicholas
Loop, Frank Sumner
Lovejoy, Edward Bell, P. M.
Lubben, Frederick
Lubbock, Oswald
Luderman, Henry William
Lum, William Tappan
Lutgen, John
Mackie, Alex.
Magagnos, Charles Plumne: D.
Magill, Robert Henry
Margrave, Charles Edmond
Marshall, Sidney Smith
Martin, David Chester
Martin, David Wilkins
Martin, Wilsie Manning
Mason, Fre<l 'k. Eldredge
McCallum, George Stirling K.
Mccomber, Frank Kerrick
McFarland, Benj. Salisbnry, P. M.
McFarland, Francis Watts
Mciver, Gilbert L eslie
McNutt, James Henry, P. M.
Meinecke, Henry George
Melrose, Charles Francis
Merriman, George Marsliall
Merriam, Harnden Wallace
Merriam, Horace Robert
Mesick, Samuel Peter
Messer, Joseph Oneseme
Meyers, Henry Haight
Minor, Robert
Mitchell, Henry 'fhomas
Mitchell, Sidney George
Mitchell, Sidney Valentine
Mock, Arthur, P . M.
Moore, Fred Thompson

.Moulthrop, Horace Lankton
Mundwyler, John Lewis
Munthe, Daniel Peter
Nelson, Hans
Nelson, Marius
Nield, John Lingard
Nobmann, John Henry, Jr.
Norton, Edward Akiba
Noy, William Henry
Nylander, Gustaf Adolf
Oeding, Franz Johannes
Oehlmann, Ludwig
Olinder, William Rudolph
Owen, George Marshel
Paff, Charles
Pagels, Edward
Parker, Dudley Allerton
Paulsmeier, Alber t Carl
Peck, Ferdinand John
Penfield, William Henry
P erry, Kirkham Lo<:khart
Petersen, Andrew Hansen
Peterson, Robert
P eters, Thomas Lynn
Philpot, Charles H enr y
Pickthall, Myles
Pierce, George Henry
Plummer, Geurge Elliott
Porter, Abel Willard, J r.
Potts, James
Powell, John Milton
Powell, John Wesley
Priestley, Frank H enry
Pyne, Thomas Ireland
Quast, August F .
Rasmussen, Peter
Rat hbun, George Arthur
Ravens, Arthur
Reeves, Herbert Villiers
Reeves, Thomas Villiers
Reimers, Gustav August
Reynold, George Potter
Rhodes, James D.
Rick, Charles Beauregard
Riddle, Douglas

Riggle, Frank Hagen
Robinson, Jesse
Robinson, Chester Larn·e d, P . M.
Roe<le r, William E<lwar<l
Hogers, Jesse Isaac
Rosenberg, Gay Allender
Rosenberg, Robert Colman
Ross, James
Rounds, John Albert
Rowe, James Roy
Rowe, Walter Philip
Rudbach, John Christian
Rue, Edmond Davidson, P. M.
Rue, Frank Alvan
Russell, James Rainey
lfo st, \\'iJJinm .J etfersou
Sanford, Joseph Warren
Sansom, John Andrew
Sansom, Louis Nelson
Schmalz, Claus
Schmidt, Gustav Ludwig
Schoenan, Henry
·Schneider, Henry
Scott, Arthur Walter
Scovel, Horace Hezekiah
Seymour, E<lwarcl Howard
Shear, William Mortimer
Shearman, James Spotiswood
Sheeran, James Andrew
Siegfried, John Christian
Simon, Lucien
Sloan, James Ralph
Smith, Clarence M.
Smith, Weston Orlin
Sonnenberg, Albert
Spark, John Home
Speddy, Thomas Howard
Spreckels, Richard
Stack, J ames Henry
Stafford, Auren Alfred
Stallman, Frank Oscar
Star!rweather, Haynes Kingsley
Stephenson, Stanley
Stillwaggon, Frederick Berry
Stocker, Fretlerick H enry

323

Stokes, Charles Edward, P. M.
Stracham, Harry Fergusson
Stratford, Harry Cornish
Strong, Milton Grosvenor
Strunz, Albert
Sturtevant, George
Sullivan, Dennis Joseph, P. M.
Swayne, Robert Henry
Swett, Daniel Storria
Swithenbank, Charles
Taylor, Charles Nielson
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin
Taylor, Henry. Reed
Taylor, Morgan Stuart
Taylor, Raymond Eugene
Teller, Harvey Earl
Teller, John de Peyster
Teller, Philip Shepheard, P. lll.
Thau, Albert Harry
'l'homas, Edwin James
Thompson, George Stuart
Thompson, William
•1·ilden, Charles Lee
Tisdale, Charles Lewis
Townsend, Henry Clay
•1·oy, Howey Marshall
''nft, Walter Edward
Turner, Myron C.
Van Brunt, William R"ger
Van Cott, Alfred Hoagland
Van Orden, Leander
Van Oterendorp, Klass
Verdugo, Camilo
Volberg, Charles Christian

Volberg, Frederick Ludwig
Wall, Uarlton Hobbs
Wall, Hichard Theopolis
Walton, Frank Newton
Walton, 'l'hompson Gregg
Ward, George Harold
Ward, Henry
vYarren, Fit"' Henry
Weaver, William Henry
Weeks, George Franklin
Wenham, 'William
Wever, Charles Herbert, P. M.
Werner, Richard Luckow
Westerdahl, Chester Alvin
Wilhelm, John
Willie, Isadore
Wilson, Edward Rudolph
Wilson, Fred 'k Gilbert Jr.
Wilson, Silvt>ster Frank
Winn, George Herbert
Wolfrom, George Edward
Wood, Wm. Christopher
Woodin, Eugene
Woodside, William John
Worden, William Henry
Wright, George Thomas
Wuerz, Carl Christian
Wulzen, Richard John
Yablonsky, Jonn, P. M.
Young, Charles Frederick
Young, Lars Gustaf
Youngberg, Frank Easterby
--431!
Youngberg, John E., P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
Bruce, John Alexander
Daniel, James
Federer, John Wesley
Franciscovieh, Mateo

ROSTER

ROS'.rEB

324

Hillman, Richard George
Holt, Robert Lyman
Mastick, Charles Levi
Nason, Arthur Graham

325

DIED:
Christensen, Peter
Jacobsen, Jacob Errick
Colver, Anthony Wayne
Moulthrop, Carlton Francis
Cousins, Frederick William
Pettes, William Ethan
Crooks, Richard
Sale, William Truman
Eickhoff, .Tohn Henry
Smith, John Alexander
Vosburgh, Joel Brown

.

DORIC LODGE, No. 216.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Golrlen Gate Commandery Hall.
OFFICERS:
Albert Adolph Rosenshine, Master, William Burton Cameron, Chaplain,
839 Mills Building.
Manuel Lafee, Sen. Deacon,
Frederick William Stapff, Sen. W., Acton Haven, Jun. Deacon,
William Parsons Read, Jun. Warden, Martin Leopold ;Haines, Steward,
J oseph Aaron Bush, Treasurer,
Harry Abraham Miller, Steward,
Julius Raphael Goldsmith, Secretary, Edward Wilson Currier, Tyler.
419 Cherry Street.
Abraham, Charles Jacob
Abraham, Samuel
Abrams, Abram Louis
Abrams, Nathan
Abrams, Sylvain Selic
Adler, John Schaam
Adler, Nathan Max
Aikens, Alexander
Alexander, William
Allen, Charles
Allingham, William
Ancker, Abraham
Andersen, Hjalmar
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Olof
Anderson, Peter Christian
Andrews, Abraham
Arendt, Alfred Lionel
Arnheim, Herman Samuel
Arnheim, William Samuel

MEMBERS:
Asher, Hugo Kiewe
Aurich, Leon Stanley
Avan, John
Backstein, Ferdinand
Bacon, Charles Augustus
Barlt, Alexander Leipschuetz
Baker, Frederick Thomas
Banks, William Oscar
Bareilles, John Parrott
Bartlett, Frank August
Bauer, Adolph Charles, P. M.
Beck, Charles Louis
Beermann, Adolf.
Beermann, William
Beger, August
Behm, Alfried Herman
Behrend, David
Belvel, George Elijah
Bennett, George Washington
Berwin, Charles

326
Bickley, John
Blank, Wm. Caesar
Blum, Isidor Leon
Blume, Daniel
Blumenthal, Bello Julius
Bock, Frank Joseph
Bohle, Albert Frederick
Bosch, Peter .
Boskowitz, George Henry
Brandon, Julian Rodrigues
Breeding, William Henry
Bressi, Enrico Guiseppe
Breyer, Jerome McNeill
Brown, Herbert Morris
Brown, James Victor
Brown, LouiR Calvin
Buckley, Edward Murray
Bullion, Alfred Hanna
Bunger, Fred 'k. Christian
Bush, Arthur Cleveland
Bush, Joseph Aaron
Button, Isaac Elbert V.
Cabaniss, George Henry
Caccia, Joseph
Cahen, David Solomon
Cameron, William Burton, P. M.
Carroll, Richard
Cerf, Alvin Edgar
Chaban, Joseph
Chapman, Fred Lawrence
C'harmaK, Edward
Chase, Fred Jay
Cherney, Irving Isidore
Chonette, Otto William, P. M.
Christ, Ferdinand Franz
Christensen, John
Church, Joseph William
Clawson, Leonard Edwin
Coburn, Ira Winn
Cohen, Charles Chester
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Leon
Coblentz, Lambert
Collins, Samuel Henry

ROSTER
Conway, John Francis
Cook, Morton Leon
Cooper, Charles Gilbert
Cooper, Samuel Marum
Copeland, William Glenn, P. M.
Craig, Archibald F. McD.
Crank, Paul
Creagh, John William
Crozier, Samuel
Cun11ingl1am, James
Curtlett, William, P. M.
Cllrrier, Edward Wilson
Cushing, George W ashington
Danziger, Simon
Davis, David
Davis, Maurice William
Davi~, Siegfried
Deal, William Griffith
Denker, Nicolas Carl
DeWitt, Frank Clinton
Donaldson, Allan Johnstone
Dorn, Gus Emil
Dunand, Louis Frank, P. M.
Dyer, George Henry
Eber, Karl
Edwards, Alfred Soule
Eichbaum, Chas. Williamson
Eickhoft', Henry
Eisenbach, Julius
Eshelman, John Franklin
Euphrat, Martin
Faircloth, Frank Thomas, P. M.
Falk, Harry Henry
Falk, Morris
Faller, Ike
Feige, Ralph Cerf
Ferris, Crawford
Fershtand, Theodore
Finkler, Henry Charles
Fishel, David
Fisher, Moses
Fitzgerald, Robert Harrison
Fl1md, ,John William Randall
Folsom, Eugene Hampton
Fontana, Frank Andrew

ROSTER
Fox, Morris
Haven, Acton
Franklin, William
Healing, George
Fraser, John P., P. M.
H eiman, Abraham
Freudenthal, Felix
Heineberg, Jacob A.
Friedlander, David
Heineberg, Joseph
Heinicke, William Frederick
Friedman, Abe
Friedman, Hen-ry Albert
Heller, Joseph
Friedman, Israel
Henderson, AlexanJer
Friedman, Samuel
Herzog, George Kramer
Herzog, Joseph
Gabriel, Julius Lester
Gassner, Louis
Herzog, Maximillian
Geddes, William
Herzog, Sidney Garfield
Gee, Charles Ezra
Herzog, Sigfried Kramer
Gee, William Herbert
Heskins, Herman
Geitner, Robert
Hicks, Herbert Reuben
Gelatte, Fred Gordon
Hill, Thomas Locker, P. M .
Hoefler, Ludwig Mathias, P. M.
Geppert, Cletus FFancis
Hoffman, Charles 8.
Getz, Moses Milton, P, M.
Hollidge, Harry Hamlin
Gille, William Henry
Holmes, Harold Charles
Gillespie, William John
Holmes, Henry Edmund
Goetze, Edward Henry
Holzberg, David
Goicovich, George John
Isaac, Adolph
.Goldberg, Garrett Milton
Isaacs, Louis Raymond
Goldberg, Max
!ten, August
Goldsmith, Julius Raphael
Ivanovich, Martin
Goodday, Jacob Louie
Jacobs, Harold Wihl
Gorter, Herman Henry
Jacobs, Henry Albert
Grant, Isaac
Gray, Frank Sidney
.Jacobs, Murry
Jacobs, Myer
Gray, Lee
Jacobs, Sol
Green, Isaac Michael
.Janes, Graziano
Groh, Antoµ Frederick
Gross, Louis
Jewett, Albert Cavallo
.Joel, Arthur
Gut, Karl
Johnson, Frederick Joseph
Gutman. Alexander
Jones, Samuel
Haines, Allie
Haines, Martin Leopold
.Judell, Emil
Hall, Frank Henry
Judie, Alphonse
Kahn, Lester
Hannah, Jesse Daniel, P. M.
Kalmuk, Louie
Hannah, John Sidney
Hansen, August Wilhelm Hermann Katz, Charles
Kaufmann, Eduarll
Harris, Chester Sigmund
Kauffman, Leon
Hart, Riehard
Keilus, Henry Mo1rns
Hartje, John Herman Frederick
Hassell, William PreaPOH
.R ""ll"r. Al>~

327

328

Kellogg, Albert Crawford .
Kelly, William Wesley
Kendall, Alfred Thomas
Kendall, Robert
Kerrigan, Frank Henry
Koshland, Adolf
Lafee, Manuel
Lake, Lynwood Dustin
Lande, Edward
Landgreen, William
Larkin, Harry
Larsen, Hans Henrik
Larsen, Niels
Lazarus, Samuel Levie
Learner, Max
Lee, Lonnie Heyward
Lenoir, Gustave Abraham
Leon, Samuel Ralph
Lervik, Karl Avid Mattson
Lesser, Sol Leonard
Leszynsky, Isidor
Leudan, Joseph
Levenson, Samuel Millard
Levey, Benjamin Coleman
Levi, Ben, P. M.
L evi, Samuel
Levin, Aa ron Simon
Levi n, Abraham
J,t>vingston, Harry
Levison, Alex.
Levy, Adolph
Levy, Armand David
Levy, Elias
Levy, Emanuel Alex.
Levy, Eyrle Robert
Levy, George Adler
Levy, Harold Walter
Levy, Jacob
Levy, Leopold Harry
Levy, Mark Washington
Levy, Maurice
Levy, Morris Franlr
Levy, Reuben
Lewin, Helmut
Lewis, Jacob Emanuel

.ROSTER

ROSTER
Liebman, Lloyd Harry
Lipman, Leopold
Long, Edward Melvin
Lowe, Clarence Willie
Lustig, Daniel David
Lyons, Charles Gerald
Lyons, Edward, Jr.
Macdonald, Charles
Macvean, Duncan Malcolm
Magee, David Bartholomew
Mann, Leo
Manzer, Frank Eugene
Marchus, David Edward
Marks, Marcus
Markwitz, Louis
Martinoni, Emil
Matthiesen, John Andreas Phillip
McCroskey, Cyrus Burr, P. M. ·
McCullough, Thomas
McMurchy, William
Mendelsohn, Louis M.
Mendelson, Julius
Meyer, Arthur
Meyer, Samuel
Meyers, John Jacob
Miguel, Paul Shirley
Mikkleson, Robert
Miller, Harry Abraham
Miller, James Will~am
Miller, Louis Cecilius
Mish, Gerald
Mohr, Harry Rudolph
Mohr, Selby
Monro, William James
Mooser, William
Morris, Henry
Morris, Saul Nathan
Morrisson, Albert Charles
Muller, William
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Munter, Bernard
Myers, Arthur Less
Myrson, Abraham Franklin
Myrsori, Simon, P. M.
N annestad, Henrik Elias

Nassau, Samuel Nathan
Nathan, Aaron Riggs
Neal, Robert Waterman
Nelson, Charles Frithof
Nelson, William Arthur
:.:·t~uer,

Carl

Nevegold, William Francis
Norberg, John
Nye, Joseph Merrill, Jr.
0 'Connor, J'o seph
Oldis, Frank Evelyn
Olesen , Knu<1 Christian
Olsen, Andrew
Olsen, Peter Andrew
Oppenheimer, Albert Henry
Ormsby, Edgar Lionel
Ottmeer, Adolph
Packscher, Charles
Pa ton, George
Peiser, Solomon
.Peshon, Peter Alfred
Peterson, Charles Gus. Ferd.
Pettersan, Gottfried Teodor
Phillips, Joseph J _a mes
Pierotti, Henry Collingwood C.
Plant, Sydney Lomax
Pockman, Leonard Thomas
Pohli, Emil
Pohlmann, Heinrich Adolf
Pollak, Arnold
Poppic, Arnold
Preddey, George Henry
Prince, Albert David
Prince, David Solomon
Ragland, Rufus Ely
Rainey, William Austin
Ramsay, William ,Tames
Read, .William Parsons
Reid, Rafe Robinson
Reiner, Charles Edward
Reinhart, Manfred
Reinhart, Simon
Reinstein, Arthur Henry
Reissberg, Jacob
Reles, Peter

Riblet, Henry Nelson
Richardson, Willard Ashton
Riley, John Francis
Robertson, John Milne
Rosen, Carl Albin Amandus
Rosenberg, Joseph
Rosencrantz, Samuel
Rosenheim, Samuel
Rosenshine, Albert A.
Rosenthal, Isidore
Rothenbusch, Carl Adolph
Rothschild, Abraham
Rothschild, Joseph
Rothschild, Lew
Ruggles, Albert Burleigh
Rusconi, John Batista
SalornCln, Leon Gilbert
Salsman, Isaac
Salz, Edward
Samuels, Albert Samuel
Sattler, Herman H.
Schaertzer, Henry Conrad, P. M.
Scharff, Isaac Clare
Scheppler, Louis William
Scheuch, Leopold
Schmalz, William
Schmidt, Carl H.
Schraubstadter, Ernst
Schroder, Edward Henry
Schroeder, Fridrick William
Schuh!, Leon
Schwabacher, Franklin
Schwartz, Aaron
Schwarz, Jacob
Scott, Arthur George
Scott, William Lane, P. M.
Seoville, Calvin Ernest
Seeley, Joseph
Selig, Sylvan
Semmel, Eduard
Short, John George
Short, J qseph Edward
Silver, Robert Napier
Silverstein, Abraham
Silverstein, Bernard

3~9

ROSTER

330
Simon, Irwin Blaine
Simon, Selmar
Sinclair, John Stewart
Skaller, George
Sollman, Nalentine
Sommerfield, Morris T.
Sperling, Frank
Spreen, Carl Fred August
Stapff, Frederick Wm.
Stangenberger, George Bernard
Steers, Frank Morgan
Steinbach, Henry
Steiner, Theodore
Steinmann, Carl Wilhelm Ferd.
Sternberg, Chas. Solomon
Stokes, Henry Arthur
Strom, Christian
Strouse, Mark
Surges, John
Swanberg, Charles Olif
Swanberg, Frederick Augustus
Taylor, William Henry
Terrill, William Albert
Thomas, David John
Tilton, James Alex.
Trebell, William, P. M.
Triest, Joseph
.
Tryon, Ephraim Howard
Vercevich, Adam Lazar

Walter, Nathan Leon
Warshauer, Harry
Warshauer, Jacob
Watkins, Henry Ward
Watson, Horace Daniel
Weinshenk, Sydney
Weiss, Harry Meyers
Weiss, Milton
Westhofer, Henry
Wheeler, Edward Alvin
White, Thomas Benton, P. M.
White, William Mercer
Wight, Frederick Lawrence, P. M.
Williams, Alex. Francis
Williamson, James Richarr!
Wilson, Charles Edward
Wilson, James
Wilson, .James Eleazar, P. · M.
Wobber, William Peter
Wolbach, Karl
Wolf, Simon, P. M.
Wolff, Simon
Wolters, Theo. Ludwig
·wuod, John
Wright, James William
Young, Arthur Lawrie
Young, Hermann Hartmann
Young, Hermann Hartmann, Jr.
Young, .John Stuart
--458

WITHDRAWN:
•Joslyn, William Edwin
Creque, Wellingtcm David
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Penre, John Wilson
Yarnebe:rg, Charles

Jfalla, Otto

Ferral, Robert
Klinger, Charles

DI.E D:
Nordman, Adolph
Roserrantz, .Julius
8ilventein, .Jacob

ROSTER

MONTEREY LODGE, No.

::S31

217.

Monterey, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Leroy D. Lacey, Mas ter,
James Miles Webb, Chaplain,
528 P olk Street.
. William Himmelsbach, Sen. Deac.,
William Henry Faringhy, Sen. Ward., David McKillop, Junior Deacon,
Cha rles Millard McKim, Jun. Ward., George Sylvanus Gould Mar.rhal
Henry Alexander Olmsted, Treas., Howard Daniel Severa~ce, Stewc:rd,
William Kay, Secretary,
Cha rles Woodhull Salterbach, Stwd.,
440 Van Buren Street.
Peter Sella, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Harrington, John Joseph
Anway, Clayton Loren
Hart, Steven Charles
Bagby, Jacob Warren
Hilby, Francis Martin
Barker, Eldridge Kendall
Bassett, Abner
Hille, Martin Henry
Beardsley, .James Harvey
Himmelsbach, William
Berry, Frank Swan
Hove, Charles Gerard Van
Bennett, Charles Newton, P. M.
Jacks, Will, P. M.
Boyce, Arthur Elliott
Johnt1on, John Aleck
Bowler, William Emmons
Kay, William, P. M.
Bronson, Andrew
Kench, William Russell
Brown, Thomas Watson
Kennedy, Leo Eugene
Brown, Wallace Clarence
Kibbler, William Thomas
Charmak, Sol
Kilpatrick, Harry Merritt
Cook, Theo. Webster
Lacey, Leroy D.
Currier, William .Perkins
Lee, Tom, P. M.
Di Paolo, James Henry
Leppert, Joseph
Davidson, James C.
Liddle, Edwin Elliott
Edwards, William Sawyer
Lillie, Wm. Adam
Elliott, Edwin Warren
Little, David Spence
Emmons, Rober.t Forest
Longley, Adna Hecox
Faringhy, William Henry
Lynch, James Andrew
Garrick, Adolph
Maddock, Robert Henry
Geisler, John George
Maple, Delmer
Martin, Carmel
Gibbs, Joseph
Grimes, Edward
Mason, Arthur James, P. M.
Gunzendorfer, Adolph
Massie, Frank Oberlin
Goldstine, Samuel
McCabe, Robert ,Tames
Gould, Fred Colwell
McKillop, David
Gould, George Sylvanus, P. M.
McKim, Charles Millard
Harmon, Sherlock
McMillen, Hiram

ROS'l'ER

332

McMurphy, George Bailey
Mease, George William
Mitchell, Robert Grant
Moseley, Alex.
Oliver, Joseph Kurtz
Olmstead, Charles Shellman, P. M.
Olmsted, Henry Alex., P. M.
Olmsted, Henry Martin
Otis, Ney
Parker, Will Emory
Pierce, Frank
Pyburn, William Henry
Richesin, Jesse Oliver
Ridland, William
Riley, James Alexander
Roberts, Edward
Rowe, Herbert
Ruthven. Sidney
Salterbach, Charles W.

ROSTER

Sandholt, William
Scholze, Ernest August, P. M.
Schwartzenbeck, Frank Xavier
Sala, Benjamin Vincent
Sella, Peter
Senestrari, Jacob Theo.
Severance, Howard Daniel, P. M.
Snaider, Josef
Stewart, John James
Stockdale, James Thomas
Swetnam, Isaac Newton ,
'riddball, Thomas Theodore
Tustin, Thomas Reeves
Vandewynckel, Aime
Warren, Henry Lyman
Webb, James Miles
Winston, Arthur Grosvenor .
Wroble, John Goodell

-97

DIED:
Peterson, Charles William

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.
Livermore, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Alexander Therkof, Master, William James Clifford, Chaplain,
Livermore, Cal.
Leslie Earle Wright, Sen. Deacon,
Henry Gordon McGill, Sen. Warden, Harry Herbert Madison, Jun. De2con,
John Hodgson, Jun . Warden,
Charles Addison McClain, Marshal,
Charles Frederick Mess, Treasurer, Arthur Lindsey Henry, Steward,
Thomas Francis Brady, Secretary,
Frederick William Trezel, Steward~
Box 118, Liverm.ore, Cal.
Julius Henry J ohnson, Tyler.

Anderson, James
Anspaqher, Simon
Archer, William
Bailey, Hiram
Baker, John Blair
Bardellini, Joseph
Barnes, George Robertson

MEMBER!::!:
Barzelotti, Louis Francis
Bayley, William Barrow
Bernal, Denis Filbert
Black, Frank Simpson
Brady, Thomas Francis
Brown, James Henry
Brumbough, James R.

Bruns, Geo. Andrew
Bruns, Herman Luther
Clarke, James William
Clifford, Wm. James
Connell, Wm. John
Decker, Henry Harrison
Demartini, Antonia
Dieckhoff, Diedrick
Duncan, Arthur Clarence
Fassett, Francis Bonello, P. M.
Fish, Albert Lester
Foster, Arthur Owen
Gerst, Edgar Anspacher
Goodale, Robert Waite
Granor, Adolph Thomas
Hagemann, August, P. M.
Hayes, John Cary, P. M.
Henry, Arthur Lindsay
Herbert, William
Hortenstine, John Baker
Hunter, John Ramsey
Hunter, Ruben
Hutchinson, James
,Tohnson, Julius Henry
Johnson, Lawrence Westerfield
Johnson, William Frederick
Jones, Lewis Glynn
Kennedy, George Edwin, Jr.
Lefever, Charles Prine
Lefever, Howard
Lefever, Robert Waite
Lucas, Charles Godfrey
Madison, Harry Herbert
McClain, Charles Addison
McDonald, David
McDonald, William
McGill, Henry Gordon
McKown, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
McVicar, Philip Hugh
Mess, Charles Frederick, P. M.

Mille:r:, Edward Hershel
Munch, Charles Gottlieb
Norton, Jas. Theo.
Peterson, Charles Lorize
Pray, Clarence Syme
Reimers, John Claus
Rivers, Edwin Winford
Rowlands, Edmund
SaYuge, Frank Lee, P. M.
Savage, Silas Lee
Schluter, William
Schrader, Frederick August.
Scott, Thomas
Shidaker, Robert Frederick
Shierloh, Henry
Smith, Lewis Henry
Stanley, George Reed
8tanloy, Leland Clarence
Taylor, Anderson Charles
Taylor, William Harvey
Taylor, William Stewart
Therkof, George Alex.
'l'eeter, Daniel Marion
'feeter, Frank Ransome
Treadwell, Edward Clinch
Tretzel, Frederick Willia'll
Venn, Thomas
Victor, Charles Solomon
Victor, Morris
Wagoner, William John
Warner, James Kyle
Wente, Carl Heinreich
Wente, Carl Frederick
Wetmore, Clarence Jesse
Wilder, Charles C.
Wilson, John Hodgson
Wood, Carl Frank
Wright, Jesse Royal
Wright, Leslie Earl

WITHDRAWN:
Beck, Madison Hartwel
Hicks, George Henry

333

Lowenthal" William Baum
Sharples, Arthur
Williams, Robert Griffith

-911

ROSTER

ROSTER

:-334

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Barker, Benjamin Philip

Armstrong, John
Armstioong, Newton W.

DIED:
Kennedy, George Edwiu
Weilbye, Julius Lars

SPERANZA ITALIANA LODGE, No. 219.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
149 Eddy Street.
OFFICERS:
Giulio Puccinelli, Sm. Deacon,
Emil Victor Lonige, }.faster,
Sisto Pasori; Junior Deacon,
1362 Grant Avenue.
Giovanni Fiscalini, Marshal,
Clemente Peini, S i!nior iVarden,
Antonio Cogliandro, Junior Warden, Benedetto Francesco Rossi, Steward,
Luigi Sanguinetti, Steward,
Giuseppe Carlo Sala, Trl!asurer,
George Goicovich (of Doric 216)
Giovanni Scalmanini, Secretary,
Tyler.
327 Lick Building.
Aragona, Tony
Bacigalupi, Davide Eugenio
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Bacigalupi, Giovanni
Bacigalupi, Luigi Domenico
Bacigalupi, Paolo
Bacigalupi, Tadini Joseph
Balzarini, Carlo, P. M.
Bazzini, Giovanni
Beccuti, Giuseppe, P. M.
Belli, Silvio
Berta, Pietro
·Bertolucci, Pilade
Bianchi, Carlo
Bianucci, Pietro
Bini, Giuseppe, P. M.
Blanco, Antonio-Bua
Boccardo, Giovanni U.
Bonfigli, Emilio
Bosia, Guglielmo
Bozzetti, Ippolito

MEMBERS:
Bozzo, Michele
Brusco, Henry Domenic
Bulotti,' Giovanni
Caligara, Cesare
Calpes~ri, Italo
Canepa, Giuseppe
Canepa, Lorenzo
Carfagni, Pietro
Cariani, Luigi
Cassaretto, Giovanni
Cavagnaro, Carlo Mario
Ceeehini, Sabatino
Cereghino, Luigi
Chiappari, Giovanni
Chicca, Luigi
Cogliandra, Antonio
('ominoli, Giuseppe
Compagno, .Joseph
Compagno, Matteo
Condari, Teodoro
Cordano, Giovanni Battista, P. M.

Corgiat, John
Costamagna, Pietro
Croce, Guiseppe
Cuneo, Giovanni
Cuneo, Giuseppe
Cuneo, Tomaso
Damonte, Antonio
Davini, Andrea, P. M.
DeBono, Giovanni
Dedomenico, Domenico
De Farrari, Fred
De Julio, Cristoforo
Del Carlo, Giuseppe
Dell 'Osso, Carlo
Delmonte, Angelo
Delsoa, Francesco
Delsol, Giovanni Francesco
Delvecchio, Uio\·a nni Emilio
Del Pero, Joe
Demartini, Filippo, P. M.
Demartini, Luigi
Demartini, Paolo
Dentil'i, Salvatore
Devoto, James August, P. M.
Di Beo, Claudio
Digrazia, Lorenzo, P. M.
Domenici, Basilio
Dondero, Aurelio George, P. M.
Eluro, Antonio
F abbri, Silvio
Fiaeeaaori, Ettore
Filippini, Felice
Fiorio, Silvio
F iscalini, Giovanni
Fodera, Antonio
.t<'ontana, Giusto
Fontana, Marco G.
Forni, Carlo
Gaclina, Pietro
Gaibado, Giacomo
Galeoto, Severino
Garibaldi, Giacomo
Garibaldi, Giovanni
Giancoli, Pietro
liiornnetti, Pietro

.Gotelli, Lorenzo
Greco, Francesco
Uritfo, Joseph
Grontlono, Carlo Francesco
Guanziroli, Luigi
Gugliebmoni, Cyril Alexander
Iaccheri, Garibaldo
Iaccheri, Leonida
Icardo, Giovanni, P. M.
Kustinien, .Jacob
Lagomarsino, Carto ·
Lagomarsino, Giacomo
Lepori, Giovanni, P. M.
Levaggi, Giovanni Batti1m&
Lonigo, Victor Emilio
Maggio Fortunato
Maino, Tomaso
Mancini. Augusto
Maranetto, Giovanni
Marcacci, Antonio
Marchi, Giovanni
MaTiani, Walter Antone
Marini, Luigi
Marioni, Ginotto, P. M.
Marioni, Luigi
Marra, Frederick
Marsili, Giuseppe
Martina, Pietro
Masoero, Cesare
Massoni, Paolo
Mender, Giuseppe
Messina, Luigi Candido
Micheletti, Alfredo Angelo
Micheletti, Italo
Milisich, Christoforo
Minghetti, Dcmetrio
Minelli, Zanabi
Mino, Augusto
Mino, Giovanni
Monotti, Alfredo
Nave, Cesare
Nave, Pietro Nave
Negro, Guiseppe
Nicholas, Nahan
Onesti, Guiseppe, P. M.

335

ROSTER

ROSTEB

336
Paganucci, Adolfo
Paladini, Achille
Passalacqua, Benedetto
Peini, Clemente
Perata, Pietro
Perazzo, Joseph
Perrone, Dario
Petri, Angelo
Podesta, Luciano Roberto
Poli, Ciro
Puccinelli, Archimede
Puccinelli. Giulio
Puccinelli, Vincenzo
Rasori, Sisto
Righetti, Perseo, P. M .
Rittori, Edoardo
Rossi, Anselmo
Rossi, Benedetto F.
Rossi, Giovanni Frank
Rovere, Vittorio
Rusconi, Gottardo
Russi, Bartolo Pietro
Russi, Frank Bertoni
Russi, Fre.clerick Bertolli
Sala, Giuseppe Carlo, P. M.
Sanguinetti, Guiseppe
Sanguinetti, Luigi
Sbarboro, Andrea

Pardi, Cesare

Scalmanini, A. Beniamino, P. M.
Scalmanini, Carlo, P. M.
Scalmanini, Giovanni, P. M.
Simoni, Pio
Slavich, George
Stafford, Giovanni
Stuparich, Nicola
Stuparich, Stefano
Tassi, Antonio
Tomasini, Guiseppe Rolin~lo
'fomasini, Filiberto
Tonini, Michele Gaudenzio
Torello, Emilio
Torre, Giovanni
'l'orre, Luigi
Torre, Ottavio
Toso, Antonio
Toso, Marcellino
Trapani, Antonio
Valsangiacomo, Luigi, P. M.
Valsangiacomo, William
Valvo, Guiseppe
Verga, Guiseppe
Vitalioni, Alfredo
Vranjos, Frank
Zabaldano, Alessandro, P. M.
Zanolini, Italo
Zunini, Domenico
-188
WITHDRAWN:
Pedrotta, Giuseppe Antonio

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
P elizza, Domenico

Lorenzen, Frederick

DIED:
Matc'ovich, Natale Marco

337

DOWNEY LODGE, No.. 220.
Downey, Los Angeles Co'Clllty.
I
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
James L. Hooper, Master,
Rivera, Cal.
J ohn M. Reeves, Sen. Warden,
Clyde A. Nagle, hm. Warden,
A rthur L. Darby, Treasurer,
'\lfred E. Parsons, Secretary,
Downey, Cal.

Toy B. Gibson, Chaplain,
Walter R. Moberly, S en. Deacon,
Charles C. Manning, Jun. Deacon,
Charles T. Bruster, Marshal,
John Bartlett, Steward,
William W . Stokesbery, Steward,
Anson S. Gray, Tyler.

MEMBERS.
Henry, Albert Perry, P. M.
.\dams, John James
Hooper, James Lafayette
Ardis, John Dawson, P . M.
Houghton, Lake William
Ardis, Julius Harris, P. M.
Hull, Denton Elias
Arrowsmith, Charles Curtis
Kuehny, Menno Simon
Bartlett, John
Lally, James Mathias
Baruch, Berthold
Loew, Jacob
Brunson, Edward Atherton
Main, Walter Johnston
Bruster, Charles Thurman
Manning, Chas. Caplain
Church, Raymond Frank
nohen, Joseph Ward
Manning, Leo Roy
Condit, William Robert
Mayes, Robert Berry
Crooker, Henry Appleton
McDonald, Albert Fulton
Darby, Arthur Llewellyn
McKellar, James Wallace, P. M.
Monahan, Patrick
Dorman, Dudley M.
Dutton, Arthur Jay
Nagle, Clyde Albert
Nagle, ,Jacob J .
Dwire, Dumont, P . M.
Nugle, Voyle Jacob
East, George Earl
F.lliott, George Richard
Nance, William Henderson,
Fanning, Burton Everett
Parks, Lean1ier Norwood
Garrison, James Addison
Parsons, Alfr~d Edward
Paxton, Leonard Rupert
Gibson, Toy Berry, P . M.
Pendleton, Matthew Rainey, P. M.
Grant, Aaron George
Gray, Algernon Sidney
Pentz, Ernest Burrel
Groot, Cornelius I.
Perkins, John Franklin
Hall, Alonzo
Reeves, John Morton
Renfro, Thomas Faulkner, P. M.
Harper, Robert Bills
Harris, Ranse Biro, P. M.
Rudd, John Wesley, P . M.
Ryan, Andrew William
Haygood, Atticus Greene, P M.
Scott, Robert Lee
Haygood, Paul
22

ROSTER

338

·ROSTER

Stewart, Alex.
Taylor, George Washingtm1
Towne, 0. P.
·
.
Venable, Joseph William, P. M.
Wade, Andrew Fuller
Wagner, Andrew Fremont
Wathen, John Bush
Whafoy, Charles Mallory
Woodward, Thos. Earl
--71J
Young, George Arthur, ~· M.

Sliaeff, Norman Butler
Shanker, Barney William
Skidmore, Edward Upshaw
Skidmore, Stephen S.
Skidmore, Grey Maxwell
Spaulding, James Sanford
StP.ndlee, Claude Edward
Steinart, Jacob
Stevens, Joseph Thomas
Stewart, Albert Julius

WlTHDRAWN:
Ryan, Lee Mathew
DIED:
Orr, William W.

INYO LODGE, No.

221.

Independence, Inyo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Mairs, William Paul
Martin, Guy
McLean, John Gregor
McLean, Neal
Meroney, John Edgar
Meroney, William Oscar
Miller, William Sherman
Merkle, George Frederick
Pidge, William C.
Rhine, Bertrand
Richards, William McEllisk
Shepherd, James Edward, P, M.
Shepherd, ,John Arthur
Short, Daniel W.
Skinner, Joseph Villey

33!J

Skinner, Lloyd de V.
Skinner, Max McCune, P. M.
Skinner, William Lyle, P. M.
Steele, Charles Henry
Spear, Frederick R.
Thurston, Samul D.
Walker, August
Walker, Webster Hilton
Wheeler, Jamee Wright
Williamson, Mark Angle
Wood, George Sultan
Wright, James William
Yandell, Benjamin Hart, P. M.
Zaun, Sebastian
-117

WITHDRAWN:
Neil, Albert Augustus
DIED:
Harvey, Alvey Curtis

OFFICERS:

Julian E. Eibes'hutz, Master,
J esse Wm. Hesson, Chaplain,
Independence, Cal.
William Lyle Hunter, S en. Deacon,
Cecil Isaac MacFarlane, Sen. Ward., J ames Wright Wheeler; Jun. Deac.,
William Alrick Culvert, Jun. Ward., J ames Edward Shepherd, Marshal,
Benjamin Hart Yandell, Treasurer, John. Clifford Baxter, Steward,
William Daniel Dehy, Secretary,
George S. Wood, Steward,
Independence, Cal.
James Everett Jones, Tyler.
Anton, John Charles
Balzar, Bert Russell
Balzar, J<'red Bennett
Baxter, .John Clifford •
Bell, Andrew Nee.I
Brady, James
Brown, Warren E .
Burke, John
Butler, Will.iam V .
Calvert, George Dallas, P. M.
Calvert, William ;\Irick
Cross, Ernest Lyon
Dehy, William Daniel, P. M.
Doan, Benjamin Ray

MEMBERS:
Eibeshutz, Aaron Washington
Eibeshutz, Julian E.
Forbes, Peter Wallace, P. M.
Fowle, Jamee Elcho Zare
Gorman, John Sarsfield, P. M.
Harvey, Frederick Guy
Hession, Jesse W.
Hunter, William Lyle
Jones, James Everett
Lamar, Walter Anderson
Lewis, George Hubert
Libbey, Jason Mariner
MacFarlane, Cecil I.
Mairs, Norman J.

GRANITE LODGE, No. 222.
Rocklin, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ovid Hall Ricksecker, Mas ter,
David Orr Christian, S en. D eaco11,
Rocklin, Cal.
Joshua Beni. Brown, Junior Deaco11,
Ira Lemuel Delano, Sen. Warden, Homer Leslie Peart, Marshal,
Luis Everett Delano, Junior Warde11, P aul Walther, Steward,
Colin Hislop, Treasurer,
Henry David Mullinix, Steward,
Albert Maurice Grindell, Secretary, Samuel Oscar Odom, T ·yler.
Rocklin, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Astill, James
Christian, David Orr
Ayer, Leland Stanford
Connor, John Michael
Barber, Lyman Hempsted, P. M.
Crafts, Forrest Bowers
Biscoe, Walter }'red
Craig, Roy Hugh
Boston, Harry .bilsworth
Delano, Ira Lemuel, P. M.
Bowersox, Charles Allen
Duncan, Charles Douglass
Brown, Joshua Benj.
Dwelly, Nelson Shields
Burchard, George Henry
Dyer, Jay Ralston
Butler, Frank Albert
Dyer, John Ralston

ROSTER '

341

ROSTER

340

Egger, John Samuel
Ellis, Joseph Parr
.~'ord, James Cooper
Filson, Lee
Gillilan, Delbert Irwin
Graves, Edgar
Grindell, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Hanisch, Alvin August
Harris, Charles Samuel
Hislop, Colin
Huff, William
Layton, Edward Leonard
Levison, Isidor
Maker, Rufus
McKellips, Daniel Ozman
Mears, Edward Thomas
Mullinix, Henry David
Newton, Thomas
Nicol, William, P. M.
Odom, Samuel Oscar

Paunabaker, Edward Elsworth
Philippi, Carl John, P. M.
Pierce, Leroy Burt
Pritchard, John
Ricksecker, Ovid Hall
Roberts, William John
Schwab, Henry Samuel
Schone, August Luther
Smith, Benjamin Franklin.
Stafford, Ralph Lewis, P~ M.
Sterling, Edward Eugene ·
Thyle, Alvin Clarence
Trippett, Homer Charles
·Vivaldo, Paul
Walther, Paul
Wanek, Christy James
Whallon, Samuel Norton
Wheeler, Ralph Stephens
Wood, Samuel Heber, Jr.

•Degrees conferred during the year.

Bakersfield, Kem County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Judson Evert Dyer, Master,
James Campbell Payne, Chaplain,
Bakersfield, Cal.
Edgar Allen Keith, Senior Deacon,
Elbert Porter Munsey, Sen. Warden, Charles Richard Dennen, Jun. Deac.,
Benjamin Brugler Thomas, Jun. W., Arthur Saxe Crites, Marshal,
'\lonzo Diebel Whittemore, Treas., Grover Murry Shackelford, Steward,
Clement Danbeney Oldershaw, Sec., Henry Eissler, Steward,
2607 Chester Lane, Bakersfield, Cal. Abel Hervey Grenell, Tyler.

-57

WITHDRAWN:
Barrett, Lewis
Broyer, Alexander Henry
Clark, George Burt
Connolly, Chester Irwin
*Cox, David Lloyd
*Hawkins, Archie
Macfarlane, Ian Angus
Madison, Frank

BAKERSFIELD LODGE, No. 224.

Oden, Thomas Knox
Osborn, Walter Gates
Priest, Marion Warren
'Shearer, Jesse Herbert
Wells, Richard Herbert
Wolf, Fred
Woodbridge, Bradford
*York, H erbert Addison

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Charles Lee
Blodget, Percy Langdon
Alexander, Isaac Washington
Boggs, William Spencer
Alexander, William Henry
Borton, Fred Ellsworth
Allewen, Newton John
Bovie, Randall Ray
Anderson, Calvin Vance
Bradford, Charles Edwin
Anderson, Robert Merrywether
Bradley, Chas. Wilder
Applegarth, Clark Norman
~rame, Milburne M.
Apsley, Rie.hard
Breuch, William
Arnold, Clarence Edmond
Brett, ,James .Toseph
Arp, James Harris
Briggs, Joseph William
Baer, Charles Eugene
Brockman, John W.
Baer, Edward Arthur
Brower, Celsus
Ball, Herbert George
Brown, Carl Hoyt
Ballagh, Herbert Allen
Brown, Chas. DeForest
Baker, James Edwin
Brown, Eugene McCabe
Bare, Reuben Henry
Brown, Frank Lee
Beal, Eldon Marius
Brundage, Benjamin Leonard
Beamer, Samuel James
Bryant, Oscar Marion
Beatty, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Buck, Howard Burdett
Beaizley, William Beard
Buhn, George Lewis
Beckett, Ralph Ellsworth
Burke, Thomas Francis
Beer, J_,ucian
Bush, .Jonathan Mercer
Bell, James W.
Caldwell, Alonzo
Bicker<like, Charles
Caldwell, Donald
Camp, Frank Bartlett
Bickerdike, Charles Edgar O.
Carlisle, Robert .Tohn
Black, Harry L.
Carpenter, Archibald George
Blake, Arthur
Carr, John Henry
Blake, Freeman Stuart
Blodget, Claude Raymond
Clark, Levi Clement
Blodget, Hugh Allen, P. M.
Clarke, Orville Lee

ROSTER

ROSTER
Clay, William Oliver
Clickard, John
Cohn, Iwing
Colm, William Wallace
Comer, Edward H.
Condict, Henry Ford
Congdon, Charles Henry
Cooley, William Hal
Coons, William Henry
Correa, George Augustus
Coulter, Howard Alonzo
Crease, Fred John
Crites, Angus Jewett
Crites, Arthur Saxe, P. M.
Crites, George Solomon
Cruthers, Frank Dravo
Darms, Harry
Davis, Frank
Dickinson, .Tames Edward
Diffcrding, Charles
Dobbs, Frank Nelson
Duncan, Eugene Bennett
Duncan, Millard Augustus
Dyer, Judson Everet
Edgar, Walter Pinkney
Eissler, Henry
Fain, Charles
Farbstein, Jacob
Ferguson, Granville Lewis
Fisher, Harold Stuart
Fitzpatrick, M.
Fox, Charles Douglass
Fox, Jesse Price
Freeman, Albert William
Frisselle, Ralph
Gaddy, William Enoch
Gardner, John Edgar
Garfield, Clyde Sherman
German, Otis Henry
Gibbons, Walter Walden
Gibson, William Clarence
Gilbert, Earl Black
Gillespie, Robert Martin
Gist, Jabez Right, P. M.
Glenn, Ira Huston, P. M.

Glover, Thomas William
Gore, Arthur Henry Baldwin
Grant, Robert Elmore
Hugeman, Benjamin Stryker
Hall, Fred Henry
Hamlin, Francis Allen
Handy, Thomas Benjamin
Hanna, Thomas
Hardman, Edmond John
Harris, Wm. McMahon.
Harvey, John H.
Hawk, Walter Lee
Hayden, Edward Blaine, P. M.
Heard, John Wilkerson
Henshaw, Holmes
Hiemforth, Peter
Hill, William Harlow
Hively, Charles Asbury
Hoffman, Arch!"
Hughes, Scott
Hull, William Allen
Hunt, James Benjamin, P. M.
Russey, Ralph Harman
Hutchings, George Grant, P. M.
Jackson, James Reynolds
James, Walter
Jamison, John Mack
Jastro, Henry Alex., P. M.
Jenkins, Joseph Ed.
Jerrue, Daniel Bernard
Johnson, DeWitt Wallace
Johnston, Augustus M.
Johnston, Charles Newton
.Tolmston, William
Jones, Augustus Guy
Jones, Frederick Truman
Jones, John Dunlap
June, Newell Austin
Kaye, William Wallace, P. M.
K eller, Charles
Keller, Frank, Jr.
Kimball, Will S.
King, Layton Judd
Leech, William Hiland
Lightner, David James

l,ong, Calvin Samuel
Longacre, John Jackson
Low, John Alex.
I ,ufkin, Harry Roscoe
Lupton, George William
Mack, Julius Jacob
MacKnight, Smith P.
Macmurdo, Wirt Robinson, P. M.
Mahon, Jackson W.
Maio, Charles Francis
Mallett, Holland Kenneth
Marsh, Neil Haynes
Mason, Harvey
Masteller, Kenneth Clyde
McCully, James D.
McGowan, Daniel
McKee, George Sidney
McKelvey, Lewis
McLane, Robert Bruce
McQuire, Robert Rolland
McRae, Alex. William
Medina, John Blancarte
Metcalf, Charles Thomas
Michael, Rex Z.
Miller, Harry Vincent
Miller, Isaac Leffler
Millington, George Warren
Mills, Frank D.
Milne, James
Moody, Dwight L.
Moran, Joseph .JameR
Morley, Joseph "Vivian
Morris, Charles Alfred
Morrison, Charles Vana
Morrow, Robert Ewing
Morton, Albert Sumner
Mullins, Stephen D.
Munsey, Elbert Porter, P. M.
Munzer, Francis George
Murphy, Caissus Leon
Murray, Peter Allen
Neill, John
Neill, Robert
Newberry, Charles Francis Moore
Noble, Eugene Baker

Oldershaw, Clement Daubeney
Osborn, Jonathan Walter
Payne, James Campbell
Peacock, HaITison Ross
Pope, William Washington
Rawlings, Walter Franklin
Rea, Calvin Clifford
Reed, Frank Deward
Reynolds, George Augustine
Rie hardson, George Erastus
Rintoul, De Witt Talmage
Roberts, John Ellsworth
Robertson, Virgil Young
Robinson, Frank Wilkins, P. M.
Rogers, Guy
Rogc>n, Herbert Thpmas
Rog~rs, Homer
Rogers, James Vaughn
Rogers, Lewis Styles, P. M.
Ross, Lyman Casky
Rousseau, Elijah
Rowell, Walter Charles
Rowland, Wm. Blackburn
Sallee, George Hunter
Sawyer, Frank Newcomb
Schamblin, Gustav
Schwain, Chas. Henry
Segur, Clyde Harry
Shackelford, Grover Murry
Shanks, .Tames Watt
Shields, Charles Henry
Smith, Jesse Murray
Smith, Byron Ellis
Snell, Frank Sebastian
Snook, John
Snudden, Benjamin Dudley
Snyder, Frederick William
Sorenson, Chris
Stewart, Johnson
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
Stockmar, Edwin Linwood
Stockton, Dennis G.
Stockton, Christopher Columbus
Stoll, Charles Michael, P. M.
Stone, James Edgar

343

Wayne, Ormar Franklin
Webber, William John
Weir, Dillard Spencer
Weller, Amos
Weill, Alphonse, P. M.
Westfall, Marshall Elmer
Whitaker, Edward Howard
Whitaker, lieorge Allen
Whitaker, Perry
Whittemore, Alonzo Deeble
Whittekin, Homer T. Whittikin, Ralph Oscar
Whorff, Franklin Teed
Wiard, George Edward
Wible, Samuel Peter
Wilbur, Parker Swift
Wilkes, Carl Perry
Williams, Hibbard Smith
Williams, Percy Alton
Williamson, Albert St. John
Woods, Daniel Rosson
Zinnamon, David
Zuner, Roy Roscoe

Stroble, Godfrey F.
Strouu, Benj. Kentlrfok
Stroud, James A.
Stuart, Harry Grant
Swain, Arthur Hussey, P. M.
Taylor, Arthur Washington
Taylor, Floy Joshua
Thomas, Benjamin Brugler, P. M.
Thompson, John Walter
Thompson, Louis Thomas
Thornber, James Henry
Tibbetts, Willie Edmond
Tilton, George Albert
Tomlinson, Richard Hiram
Topham; William Robert
Tupman, Homer Irving, P. M.
Tyler, William
Underwood, Wm. Edwin
Van Vleck, John Dorsey
Wagy, Earl W.
Walker, Charles Thomas
Walters, Raymo.n d Isaac
Ward, Arrhie Levi

WITHDRAWN:
Borden, Robert Winslow
Godfrey, William
Crabtree, David Montgomery
Hall, William Griffin
Dyson, John Alfred
*Higginson, James
*Irwine, Charles Zock
*Dooley, Joseph Peter
Formway, Louis Englebert
Neill, Hugh
*Wallace, James
DIJiJD:

Fry, John Adolphus

•Degree~

ROSTER

ROSTER

3H

Humiston, Charles
Westfall, Bert Edgar

conferred during t)l.e year.

BROOKLYN LODGE, No.

225.

East Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, ·first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Francis John Rennie, Master,
Thomas Baldwin Ripley Crandell,
5437 Lawton Av.e., Oakland, Cal.
Chaplain,
Charles Edward Stowe, Se1:1. Ward., Chester V. Newell, Sen. Deacon,
Edwin J. Wold, Junior Warden,
Louis Sutter, Junior Deacon,
George Henry True, Treasurer,
Raymond Sumner Chase, Marshal,
John Charles Foster, Secretary,
Allan Martin Wickland, Steward,
1228 Magnolia Street, Oakland, Cal. Hilmar Martin Myhre, Steward,
Alexander Copeland, Tyler.

-28R

Adamson, Daniel Patterson
Allen, Harrison Anderville
Anderson, Alex. Watson
An<lerson, Archibald Borland
Anderson, Franklin Pierce
Anderson, Herbert Julius
Anderson, Thomas, Jr,
Andrews, Samuel Rufus
Armer, Victor Ellis
Avan, George Wash.
Ayer, Richard Bartlett
Back, Martin Andersen
Baker, John William
Bangle; Edward
Barnhisel, Charles Franklin
Bassett, Virgil Everett
Berg, Aaron
Berg, William Meyer
Bergson, Robert Oscar
Black, Samuel Thorburn
Blunck, John Frederick
Bond, William Thomas
Bray, Anthony
Briggs, Cyn1s Franklil).
Briggs, Herbert Pasha, P. M.
Brooks, James Hiram
Brown, Henry Augustus
Brown, Richard Alexander
l1rown, Thorvald

MEMBERS:
Browne, Harry Rosekrans
Buswell, Gilbert Sission
Buswell, John Gill
Campbell, John Alex., P. M
Campbell, Murdock
Campbell, Robert Vernon
Capell, Howell Pratt, P. M.
Carlson, Joseph Adrian
Castellanos, Salvador
Chapman, Arthur Bertram
Chase, George Moses
Chase, Raymond Sumner
Christiansen, Nie
Clarke, Thomas Brownell
Coates, Samuel John Marsh
Cobbledick, Levans Newsom
Cohicl!:, Walter Hildebrand, P. M.
Cohen, Isadore
Cohn, Abraham S.
Coney, Milton Alexander
Cook, Frank Bigelow ·
Copeland, Alex.
Corbett, Joseph Bailey
Couper, Thomas
Covell, Calvin Milton
Cowell, Richard
Crandell, Harry Arnold
Crandell, Thomas B. Ripley, P. M.
Crosby, Magnus Charles

ROSTER

ROSTER
Cross, Charles Warren
Cummfog, George Gordon
Curran, Robert Alford
Davies, Charles Henry, P. M.
Davis, Reeves
DeMooy, Harry Bernard
Dennis, George A.
Dickinson, William Edwin
Dodds, Thomas
Dodge, Edward Carlos
Donaldson, William Augustus
Dow, William Alonzo
Downey, John Charles, P. M.
Dowse, Arthur Tennyson
Drew, James Timothy
Duby, Alfred Lionel
Dufton, John Storey
Dunn, Daniel C.
Eckert, Edwin Travis Mitchell
Eeks, William Henry
Edwards, Da vid Nathaniel
E dwards, John
Efkamp, Henry William
Eliassen, Edward Russell
English, Norris
Evans, .John Harry
Evans, John Walter, P. M.
Evans, William Robert, P. M.
Everett, Frank Inches
Ewan, I srael Chew
F ake, Albert E dward
Faulkner, Joseph
Faunt, William John
Felley, Philomen Henry
Fish, Lauriston Chester
Foster, John Charles, P. ~r.
Fraser, Havelock Newton
Frederickson, Vernor
F rye, Albert Kennedy
Fuller, Amos Leighton
Furgason, Charles Horace
Gardiner, Thomas Moir
Garrett, Benj. Franklin Wilson
Garrett, Joseph Atkinson
Gibson, Charles Moran

Giesen, Henry George
Gillam, Jefferson
Goff, Henry Franklin, P. l'.f.
Goldberg, Leon Barnett
Goody; John Enoch
. Goold, J ames Ha milton
Graham, Frank Elmer
Graham, William Herbert
Grandjean, Eugene Henry
Hall, William Haynes
Hambleton, Charles George
H amilton, Milton Scott
Harbinson, George Washington
Harrington, John Alex.
Hartman, George Bressler
Harvey, Lewis Perry, Sr.
Hassard, Henry Houston, Jr.
Hatch, John Davis
Hatch, Theo. Henry, P. :LVI.
Hawkins, John Timothy
Hayden, Kenneth McKenzie
Hayden, Kenneth McK enzie, .•Jr .
Hazen, Edson
Heath, George Brown
Hemphill, Charles Lorin
Henderson, Herbert Beal
H enderson, John Ezra
Henry, Matthew
Henshaw, William Griffith
H'ermansen, Herman Chri~tian
H iles, Elton Wm.
Hiles, Gail Allison
Hiles, Park Beekman
Hill, Frederick
Hill, Robert
Hill, Robert Benjamin
. H odge, Charles
Holmberg, Ernst
Holmes, Gusta f I v ar Robert
Hosking, Mar~in Luther
Howes, George Thompson
Hunter, J ohn
.Jack son, Arthur Leslie
.Jackson, Clyde
Jackson, Edwin Rushmore

l11eob, Elmer
liuues, Arthur Jes8e
lllllMen, Jens Peter
I lll1MflD , Thomas Kristia n
Johnson, Emil Edward
Jones, J ames Philip
,fnrgensen, Christian
f( oay, William
Kl'ller, David Conrad
l<elley, John Joseph
Kcmpkey, Augustus, Jr.
l\:elly, George Earle, P. M.
l\:elly, Ly man Ernest
Kcmpkey , Edwin Karl
Kirkhoff, Clay
Koppikus, Dudley William
Kramm, Frederick William
Lamb, Willis
J,each, Edward Everate
Leach, Harvey William
J,ewis, Irving Cowham
Lincoln, Charles
Lindsey, Albert Wheeler
T,ogan, William Gould
Loken, Gilbert
Lorenzen, Niels Christian
Lowe, William Earl
Madsen, Martin
.Magill, Arthur Edward, Jr.
Marks, Martin Elkan
Mason, George H enry
Mathieu, Harry James
Mazor, Milton
Mazor, Morris
McCracken, William James
McEwing, John
McGill, Andrew
McLaughlin, David H enry
McLean, James
Mead, Lewis Risdon, P. M.
Melvin, Henry Alex.
Merrill, William Frank
Michener, David Biddison
Mille::-, Charles
Miller , E dw.,,.il Arthur

Miller, Frank William
Miller, James
Miller, John William
Miles, Harold Manley
Mitchell, Allister Stewart
·Mitchell, Melville Charles
Money, William Thomas Caleb
Monnet, Frederick Louis
Moseley, John Edward, Jr.
Muir, Andrew Robertson
Myers, Peter Johnathan
My hre, Hilmar Martin
Neils, }""rank
N ewell, Chester V.
Norris, Thomas Wayne
Orra, Camille Frank
Pearce, Joseph Deeble
Pedersen, Bernhard Stork
Perkins, Fred Wilbur
Petersen, Ulric. Kutsulls
Petersen, Walter Joseph, P. M.
Petty, John
Petty, John Arthur, P. :M.
Petty, Joseph
Petty, Rowland
Phelps, John Glover
Phillips, John Waterman, P. M.
Pierce, Howard Haynes
Plunkett, James Arthur
Pond, James Haven
R aft er , Charles Christopher
Randle, Franklin Gilder
Rankin, Simon George
Read, Alfred Christopher P.
Reece, Angelo
Re!lce, Oliver
Rees, Howard Horace
Rennie, Francis John
Richards, Ulysses Grant
Rinehart, .Wm. Barbour
Roberts, George Robert Wesley
Rogers, H enry Joseph
Ruppert, Charles Henry
Rutledge, William
Rabin, John Murray, Jr.

3±7

ROSTER.

348

Samuels, George
Swift, Charles Ingham
Samuels, Marcus Lorne
Symons, Matthew
Samuels, Samuel
Tate, George
Schmidt, Theo. August
Thiele, Edmun<l Henery
Schroder, Peter Frederick F.
Thomas, Henry Sherman
Schroeder, Herbert Edwin
Thomas, John Hiram
Schulze, Henry Atherton
Todd, William Platt
Scott, .John Walter
Tomlinson, George
Scott, Joseph Alexander
Tonks, Wm. Henry
Seal, Alfred Blake
True, George Henry
Seitber, Frank William
Tunley, Adam 'l'inley
Shapter, William
Vandercock, Edward Pickett
Simmen, Samuel
Vane, Walter Feary, P. M.
Simp~on, John Shepherd
Varey, Gilbert Clarence
Smith, Charles Horn, P. M.
Vestal, Jaye De .Jarnette
Smith, Clayton Kerper
Vockel, Herman Theo.
Smith, Frank Milton
Waddell, George ' Brewer
Smith, Guy Window
Wady, Godfrey Edward
.
Snook, George William James
Warren, Granville Dexter, P. M. ,
Spanggord, Severin Ben. Larsen
Webster, James Alvan, P. M.
Spradlin, Charles Blanchard
Webster, Jonathan Vinson, P. M
Starkey, Robert Pierpont
Welch, Bert Henry
Steel, Wm. Shurvell
West, Ross Raymond
Stewart, Frank Holman
Wethern, George Hiram
Stewart, Maurice Solomon
Whitmore, Willis Whitney
Stewart, Michael Young
Wickland, Allan Martin
Stirling, Charles
Wilcox, Wilbur Jairus
St. Johnson, William Howard RnssellWilliams, Eugene Francis
Stockholm, Charles
·wmiam~, George Roscoe
Stockslager, Henry George
Williams, Justin Leroy
Stowe, Charles Edward
Wol~, Edwin J.
Stuart, Harry Clay
Woods, William FowlE>r
Sutter, Louis
Woodworth, Leslie Emerson
Swalley, Harry Martell
Woodworth, James Lemuel
-306
Gray, Robert William

WITHDRAWN:
Parsons, Arthur Claire
Siether, Frederick William

Bonton, Leonard
Doane, Raymond Orrine

DIED:
Heney, Archibald Henry
Sargent, Edwin Lyman
Smith, Byron Grover

ROSTER

SAN MATEO LODGE, No.

349

226.

San Mateo, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Kenneth Milton Green, Master,
Francis Joseph Cochran, Sen. Deacon,
San Mateo, Cal.
Jacob Wiley Divelbliss, Jun. Deacon,
J foward Matthew Tayler, Sen. Ward., William Harrison Raymond, Marshal,
Frederick Ernest Beer, Jun. Warden, George Christie, Steward,
Leonard Levy, Treasurer,
Frank Cavanaugh, Steward,
Edward C. Aldwell, Secretary,
Frederick Parkin, Tyler.
250 Elm Street, San Mateo, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Dunton, Charles
Aldwell, Edward C.
Duthie, Charles
Allen, Charles
Earhart, George Hammond
Allen, Fred Walter
Alton, Thomas William
F.:dwards, Burt Ernest
Baker, Wood C.
Edwards, Milton
Barron, Andrew Scully
Elftman, Maximilian A.
Ensign, Loou Emmett
Beer, Frederick Ernest
Blackburn, Daniel Edward
Eskilson, Chris
Bonner, Robert
Farrar; Mercer Hoyle
Fendler, Theodore
Boring, Frank Henry
Ferrin, Joseph Alidus
Breckenridge, Fred John
Brill, Arthur Thaddeus
Fisher, Carl Wallace
Fisher, Edgar Pearly
Brown, Arthur Stanley
Glhlden, Willartl Wesley
Brown, Creed H.
Browne, Augustus Frank, P. M.
Golden, George Charles
Gordon, Joseph Byron
Buchman, Edward
Gracier, Seth Bertram
Butte. Chris Frederick
Grant, Andrew William
Callesen, Fredric Peter
Green, Allan Lee
Ca vanagh, Frank M.
Chidester, Walter Clifford
Green, Charles Arthur
Green, Eldri<lge
Christie, Geo. Langland
Cochran, Francis Joseph
Green, Kenneth Milton
Cone, Wm. Henry
Green, Milton James, P. M.
Cook, Finlay
Hansen, Albert Marquid Otto
Cough, George Walter
Hatch, Alvin Schuyler
Crawford, Ralph Kallact
Hatch, James
Henwood, Arthur William
Divelbiss, Jacob Wesley

350

Hermance, Harry P.
Peckham, Harry Augustus
Herrick, Ula"l'ence G.
Peckham, John Bryant
Higgins, Adolphus R. E.
Penton, Jesse, P. M.
Howard, Vietor St. Clair
Phillips, Charles Orval
Hoyle, Archbow Livingstone
Plummer, Sanford
Hunter, Joseph Slayton
Rawles, Robert Allen
lt11ymond, William Harrison
Ignace, E rnest
Boyden, Herbert Nathan
l11za,r<l, John
Rue, Joseph
J ,a µss.en, Henry G9dfried
Russell, John
J .o hnston, James Gilbert
Ryan, 'M:arl~ E .•lr.
Johnstone, Walter Lee, P. M.
Sanderson, Fred Orant
Kelley, John Joaeph
Kennedy, James Joseph
Schwab, John A.
Kennedy, Joseph
Schneider, William Rudolph
Kettlewell, William
Shand, .John Edward
Smith, Andrew
Lafranchi, Antonio
Lawrence, Grove, P. M.
Smith, Joseph
Lawrence, William Babco~k, P. M. Smith, Willard M.
Laurenco, Jacinto
Sneath, George Riehard
Sneider, Geo. William
Levy, Andri
Soule, John Alden, P. M.
Levy, Armand Archer
Sprout, Sidney Smith
Levy, Edmond L.
Levy, Fernand
Taylor, Henry Wm.
Levy, Fernand A.
Taylor, Howard Matthew
Levy, Henry Naph
Thompson, Hiram Walter
L evy, Joseph, P. M.
Tilton, Howard Quincy
Luff, Herbert, P. M.
Tourtelotte, William Ellsworth
M:cCurdy, J. Erwin
Turnbull, William Fisher
McGilvray, Harry S.
Vandenbos, Charles August, P. M.
Mead, Benjamin L.
Vankammen, Nicholas
Milliken, Albert
Waggoner, Fieldon W.
Morrison, Norman Donald
Wainwright, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Moulton, Eddy Stillman
Walling, Horace Herbert
Munro, William
Warren, Harry C.
Nelson, Horace
White, r.harles
Nelson, William
\v 11liams, Edward L.
Nichols, CheYier Ezekiel·
Wilson, Arthur Hogue
Nickerson, Geo. Raymond
Wisnom, John
Notley, George Andrew
Wisnom, Robert James
Ogborn, Joseph Benton
Wisnom, Wm. Donnan
Painton, Harry Renowden
Wood, Thomas
Parkin, Frederick
Worsley, Harold Rollin
Parr, Harry H<innibal
- 139

351

ROSTER

'ROSTEI?

SUSPENDED FOR ]'l'ON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Smith, Louis Anson
Gordon, Alexander
L arsen, John

DIED:
Repsold, Amandus
· · Schaefer, George

ATHENS LODGE, No.

228.

Davis, Yolo Oounty.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding l!'ull .Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles Edward Schoff, Master,
Davis, Cal.
William Frederick Haussler, Sen. W.,
James Henry Brady, Jun. Warden,
John B. Ander_son, Treasurer,
Henry Wesley Filbert, Secretary,
Davis, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Gude, Richard Emile
Anderson, Andrew ll oruon
Gallagher, Joseph James, P. M.
Anderson, John B.
Hamil, George Frederick, P. M.
Bates, Walter Ernest, P. M.
Hamil, Henry Jacob
Bowcock, Thomas John
Hamil, William Charles
Brady, Albert, P. M .
Hand, William Henry
Brady, James Henry.
Hanson, Claude M.
Brady, Patrick H., P. M.
Haussler, George John
Brady, Thomas, P. M.
Haussler, William Jacob Fred 'k
Brunson, Ruben B., P. M.
Henle, John Frederick, P. M.
Butterfield, Elmer Pixley
Henle, Joseph
Carey, George Ransome
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Chamberlin, Vincent J.
Hite, Bert
Dicky, Thomas John
Hoffman Le Roy
Dietrich, Charles John
Hustis, Arthur Franklin
Dyer, Edwin Lee
Hyde, Clarence Craig
Eggert, Edmund William
Klays, Addison
Filbert, Harry Wesley
Flossfeder, Carl Hermann FrederickLehrman, August Fred
Libby, Alvin Bates .
Fowler, Ralph Melville
Light, Chas. Morton
Gallion, Thomas William
Lillard, Thomas Wilber
Greene, Charles Edmond, I'. M.
Ma,jors, Ernest William
Gude, Richard

ROSTER

352

Merrick, Orlando Briggs
Miller, Albert .Tames
Miner, Guy L.
Oeste, Carl Theo. P. M.
Purinton, .Tames Parker
Ray, Carrol Martin
Read, Samuel Milford
Reid, Samuel McNeir
Reith, John, Jr.
Roberts, Rogers M.
Robson, Hugh A., P. M.
Rowe, .Jesse Gray, Jr.
Russel, Frank Edwin
Russel, William Ogburn, P. M.
Sanders, Geo. Warren
Sanders, Samuel S.

ROSTER

Schoff, Charles Edward
Sharp, Myron Phillander
Smith, Frederick Philo
Smith, Hiram Henry
Snider, Eli
Stamp, George
Taylor, John
Tuft, Andrew Jackson
Tuttle, Benjamin B., P. M.
Weber, Frank
Wilson, Frederick Warner
Wire, Franklin Benjamin, P. M.
Wire, .Tames Elzy, P. M.
Woods, William Louis, P. M.
Wyatt, Walter
Zane, George Solon
-741

WITHDRAWN:
Marshall, Patrick Slight
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Maddox, Charles Wesley
Keser, Louis
DIED:
Hamel, Henry

SOLANO LODGE, No.

229.

Vallejo, Solano County.
Stated Meeings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Walter Stanley Pierce, Master,
Adam Armstrong McAlister, Chap.,
721 Sonoma St., Vallejo, Cal.
Osgood Harold Hilton, Sen. Deac.,
Herbert Frank Gordon, Sen. Ward., Samuel Lyttle, Jun. Deacon,
John Miller Inglis, Junior Warden, Andrew Jackson Whitney, Marshal,
Andrew White, Treasurer,
Harry August Frahm, Steward,
Alonzo Sherman Halliday, Secretary, Walter Sidney Brittin, Steward,
Box 393, Vallejo, Cal.
Zachariah Antonio Jamison, Tyler.
Anderson, Augustus
Anderson, Carl
Anderson, Theodore
Anderson, William Oliver
Arner, Milton Elijah

MEMBERS:
Atkins, George
Annette, James Lovell
Axlund, Andrew Emanuel
Ayling, Albert Walter
Babcock, Harry Biru

llnrnewitz, Fred William
ll11rnl1art, Leon Franklin
llurtley, Herman Harry
lla11ford, Fordham Clay
lt11umeister, Edward Emery
lleronio, David Austin
ltettisworth, Allen Gari
!!Inion, Mark John
lllack, Frank Jerry
Boquet, Arthur
Brownridge, George Thomas
Bunker, Frank Summer
Burrall, Charles Frederick
Byran, Thomas Pierson
Byrne, George Clinton
Byrns, Ray Wadley
( !1ihill, Chas. Fred 'k.
( 'nRper, Albert Russell
l'lark, Tremore Austin
Clyne, John Ross
( !ollins, Howard Ephriam
Cooper, Johnston Hilliaru, P. M.
Crandall, William Green
( 'ropp, .Tames Carlyle
Damstedt, Neil Carl
Davidson, Edward W.
Deboldt, Frederick Rufus, P. M.
Demmon, George Washington
Dempsey, Fred 'k. Marion
Dempsey, Harrison Edwal'd
Dempsey, Robert Bonne
Dick, Thomas Brown, P. M.
Dinsmore, George Hollister
'Donnel. Albert Franklin
Doolittle, Robert Curtis
Douglass, Charles Wallace
Dowdell, Frederick William
Drapeau, Frank Michael
Dufour, Dempsey Franklyn
Dunkerley, William H.
Edmonston, Brook
Evans, Ea-rl Darrell
Evans, Joel Clements
Farnham, John, P. M.
23

303

Fisch, Fred
Fitzgerald, Clarence Ashbury
Fitzgerald, .Jenkin~ Augustus
Flatland, Martin
Frahm, Henry August
Fritshaw, Chester
Funk, Jacob Louis
Gant, Walter Scott
Garland, Fred Hildreth
Gee, Harry Auburn
Gee, James, Jr., P. M.
Gee, William, .Tr., P. M.
Giant, Mathew Kevork
Goldman, George Rowland
Goltz, Carl Garfield
Gordon, Herbert Frank
Graham, Arthur Garfield
Griffin, Benj. Franklin
Gunn, Robert Glasgow
Halliday, Alonzo Sherman, P. M.
Halliday, George Grant, P. M.
Handbery, Harry
Harrier, Louis Garaboldi, P. M.
Harris, George Gregory
Harrison, William P.
Hatch, Charles Napier
Hatton, .Tames Franklin
Hendele, Bernard
Hepburn, Alexander .Tames
Higgins, .Tames Robert
Hill, Carl Albin
Hill, .Tames Ellison
Hilton, Osgood Harold
Hoey, Hugh Dennis
Hosung, Charles Henry
Tngels, Bert Dee
Inglis, John Miller
Irvine, .Tohn
Itrich, Franz Antone
.Jacobson, Charles Simon
.Jamison, Zachariah Antonio
.Johnson, .Tames Walter
.Tohnson, .Tesse Claude
.Johnson, Seward Thomas
0

354

ROSTER

ROSTER

Johnston, John Robinson
J ollain, Joseph ·
Jones, Humphrey B.
Jones, Thomas David
Jone3, Thomas William
Judd, Edward Clarence
Kaul, Herman Richard
Keys, Charles Bernard
Kidd, Ronald Stanwix
Kitteringham, John James, Jr.
Krcgelo, John Grant
Kroeger, Henry John
Larmour, Harry
Laughlin, Bernard
Laviere, ·Frank
Lauler, Charles Edward
Lazelle, Henry Daniel, P. M.
Leachman, Ream Sesastris
Lewis, Mount ·Claire
Lockwood, Robert George
Loeffler, John Melchoir
Longfellow, George Wash.
Lovell, Adrian Philip
Lundgren, Charles
Lyon, Andrew Franklin·
Lyttle, Samuel
Madsen, Chas.
Marshall; James
MacLean, David
MacLean, Jamefl Henry
McAlister, Adam Armstrong
Mccarte, George
McDonald, Charles Wood
McNally, Michael Joseph
Melvin, Nathaniel
Mende, Paul Otto
Menefee, Frank
Michael, Harry Lockwood
Miller, Frederick Heinrich Theo.
Miskin, Albert Stanton
Murphy, Frank Arthur
Murphy, James Gordon
Morris, Frank Napoleon, ~· M.
Murray, Samuel
Nee, John Rolland

Nelson, Jens
Nord, Johan Erikson
Olson, Erland
Olsen, Ole
Olsen, Oluf Magnus
Palmer, Wm. Barker
Peabody, Frank Joseph
Peabody, George Hewitt, P. M.
Pedersen, James Peter
Pierce, Walter Stanley
Pixley, Howard Romeyne
Prastka, Anthony
Pressey, William Brown
Raahange, Robert
Ramsay, John, P. M.
Randolph, Clifford Eli
Ratto, Charles
Ripsom, Frank Herbert
Robert, Frank Hamilton
Rohcrtson, Robert Lavery, P. M.
Roney, James, p, M.
Roney, George · Allen
Roney, Wm. Shillingsburg
Rose, John M.
Rottier, Christian Ludwig
Ruch, Charles Henry
Ruppe, Louis Earl
Russell, Eugene Berry
Sanderson, James Edward, P. M.
Saunders, Ernest Layton
Scott, Harry Eugene
Scott, Wayne Halstead
Shillingsburg, Elias
:-;mith, Adam
Smith, Arthur
Smith, Curtis Cuthbert
Smith, Henry Judson
Smith, William Owen
Smith, Wm. Whittoch
Sparber, George William
Stephenson, George
Sorensen, Peter Karl Kristian
Squire, Harry Edwin
Stanford, Wm. ;1.'ownsend
Stephenson, William B .• P. M.

Stewart, Carl Vere
Stiles, William Enos
Street, August Marlsberger
Street, William Thomas
Swain, Hewett Leslie
Sweet, Fred Samuel
Talbot, Stanwood Edward
Terry, Clinton Hays
Thompson, George, P. M.
'rhompson, Herbert Leslie
Thompson, John
Thompson, Rowland Maynard
Towle, Herbert Augustus
'rrcese, Elhannen J ohnstoil
Trevey, Archie C.
'i'ufreson, August Fredericksen
Twiggs, Paul Eve
Van Prooyen, Fortune

355

Wagoner, Missouri Arnold
Walter, John Fred, P. M.
Ward, William Frank
Way, Lewis Phelps
Weirman, Samuel Arthur
Westfall, Paul Walter
White, Andrew
Whitney, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Willey, Alden Bridgman
Williams, Obed Everett
Wilks, Julius
Wilson, Joseph Ross
Winton, John Wilton, P. M.
Wood, Charles Lyman
·wortman, John Samuel
Wyman, Irwin Berle
Yutzy, Edgar Lee

-223

WITHDRAWN:
Fitchett, Seth Marshall
Bessing, Joseph Jacques

DIED:
Bryant, Frank Fremont

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 230.
Gridley, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Wesley Blair, Master,
Thomas Jackson Long, Chaplain,
Gridley, Cal.
David Humphrey Evans, Marshal,
Charles Warren Chase, Sen. Ward., William Charles Wilff, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Peter Fagan, Jun. Warden, Granville Avery Schoen, Jun. Deac.,
Edward Ernest Biggs, Treasurer, Theodore Henry Arnold, Steward,
Homer Allen Woodworth, Secretary, Robert Arthur Hill, Steward,
Gridley, Cal.
J ames Ownby, T'yler.
Arnold, Theodore Henry
Baldwin, William Thomas
Barker, Roy William
Barker, Washington Dunn
Beebee, Robert Martin

MEMBERS:
Bigelow, Marcus James, P. M.
Biggs, Edward Earnest, P. M.
Bissett, Thomas McCoy
Blair, George Wesley
Block, Charles Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER

3.56

Bonslett, Arnold
Brown, Charles Henry
Brown, Charles Henry
Burleson, William Davis
Campbell, Richard, P. M.
Campbell, Riley
Channon, Thomas Bending
Cha11e1 Charles Warren
Crusick, Fred
Crumb, Jones
Cutts, Walter Bryant
Daniels, George Seymour
Evans, David Humphrey, P. M.
Fagan, Edward
Fagan, Edward Peter
Fagan, James Porter, P. M.
Galbreath, James Thomas, P. M.
Girdner, Leroy Eugene
Granier, Charles
Hampton, James Madison
Hauck, Charles Wesley
Henninger, James
Humble, William James
Hutc.hins, John Sullivan
Hutchins, Thomas Boyd
Jones, John Harvey
King, Clarence Elmer
J,avy, Wm. Sebastian
Long, Thomas Jackson, P. M.

Marshall, James, P. M.
McAuslin, Wm. Adam
Mccurry, Samuel Baxter
Mitchell, Frank Chester
Moore, Charles Alonzo, P. M.
Mould, William
Munter, Bernhard, P. M.
Myers, James
Myers, John Calvin
Norman, Richard Augustus, P. M.
Rathbun, David L.
Schoen, Granville A very
Shannon, George Washington
Shaeffer, John Franklin
Shelley, Luther Madison
Simpson, William Edward
Smith, Almon
Sperry, Willard Felton
Stafford, Thomas Henry
Stafford, William Henry
Todd, Nelson Franklin
Turner, David J.
Turner, Harry Bennett
Waistell, Raymond Charles
Wilson, William Christopher
Wolff, Louis Joseph
Wolff, William Charles
Woodworth, Homer Allen, P. M.
-68
Young, Sewell John, P. M.

DIED:
King, Charles Lee

357

COVELO LODGE, No. 231.
Covelo, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
David Allison Jamison, Master;
William Henry Davis, Sen. Deac.,
Covelo, Cal.
Emanuel Newberg, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Franklin Spurlock, Sen. W., Edward Gibson, Marshal,
James Edward D owd, Jun. Warden, William Francis Ornbaun Steward
Edward Alexander Granvier, Treas., Albert Brown, Steward, '
'
Walter H argrave, Secretary,
Amos Dennis, Tyler.
Covelo, Cal.
Bennett, Josiah
Biggar, George Milton
Bowers, Henry Owen
Brown, Albert Martin
Brown, Charles Ira
Burton, Andrew Hayden
Cummins, David Brown
Dennis, Amos
Dennis, William Ritchie
Dowd, John Edward
Eldred, Horace Alex.
Finley, George Wear
Fiske, James Saxon
Foster, Jesse Gilbert
Gibson, Edwin
Gravier, Edward Alex.
Grist, John Wesley
Hall, Henry Miller
Ham, Whitcomb
Handy, Philo
Hansen, Christian
Hargrave, Walter
Hurt, Ch ~ rles Henry, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Jamison, David Allison, P. M.
Lampley, Charles
Lampley, James Monroe
Liftchild, Judson, P. M.
Lovell, Henry Solon, P. M.
Marde~s, Robert Ambrose
Marks, Henry
McClure, William Francis, P. M.
Meyer, Vietor
Ornbaun, Wm. Francis
Peterson, Peter Hanson
Perry, Alex. Collier
Potter, Chester Arthur
Purdy, Edward
Randrup, William
Rea, Joseph Nelson
Rhoads, William Denham
Spurlock, Thomas Franklin
Squires, George Elmer
Thomson, Francis Marion
Travis, John Henry
Tuttle, Lorenzo Brady
Van Dyke, William S., Jr.1 P . M. -46

SUSPENDE D
Azbil, Europe

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Miller, Albert Harvey

FOR

358

JANESVILLE LODGE, No. 232.

Wemple, N. V.
Wemple, Orio Edmund
Wilbur, Charles Edgar

Wilbur, Francis Leandrew
Wilbur, Thomas
Wood, James Alexander, P. M.

-58

Janesville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

859

ROSTER

ROSTER

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Cook, Warren Daniel
Bass, John Edward
Pettenelli, Thomas Henry

OFFICERS:

Stanley Edison Tyler, Master,
Janesville, Cal.
N. V. Wemple, Sm. Warden,
Charles Harry Fisher, Jun. Warden,
James Irvin Christie, Treasurer,
Arad Way, Secretary,
Janesville, Cal.

Granville Pullen, Chaplain,
Gordon Grover Jellison, Sen. Deac.,
Loren Asa Fisher, J11nior Deacon,
Samuel Harold Crow, Marshal,
Orio Edmund Wemple, Steward,
William Henry Clark, Steward,
John J ohnson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Hammond, Harry James
Agee, William Emmet
Hemler, John Oscar
Bailey, George Benton
Jellison, Gordon Groyer
Bailey, Ira Eugene, P. M.
Jellison, John Edwin
Bass, Stephen Shore
Johnson, Guy Pleasant, P. M.
Bond, Jeremiah, P. M.
Johnson, John
Broadwell, Jacob William
Johnston, Frank Robert
Bronson, William Marshal
Laufman, Edwin Douglas
Christie, James Irving, P. M.
Laufman, Jonas Welsh
Christie, John Burton, P . M.
Leavitt, George Benjamin
Clark, Charles Bates
Leavitt, James Byers
Clark, Otis
Marlor, Thomas Smith
Clark, William Henry
Meylert, Gordon W.
Crow, Samuel Harold, P. M.
Miller, Thomas E.
DeWitt, Walter Beauregard
Pattan, Adelbert Earl
Doyle, Leo Walter
Price, David C.
Doyle, Oscar Hill
Pullen, Granville, P. M
Doyle, Otis Mark, P. M.
Rowland, Clark Church
Dill, William Andrew
Rowland, Edgar Frank
Elledge, Robert Wade
Smith, Isaiah Wright
·Fisher, Chas. Harry
Stiles, Lyman Goumaz
Fisher, Horner Clifton
Theodore, John Thomas
Fisher, Loven Asa
Tucker, William Henry
Fortner, Samuel John T.
Gerichten, George Pierce Von, P. M. Tyler, Stanley Edison .
Way, Arad, P . M.
Grass, Leonard
Wemple, Jay C.
Greeno, George William

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.
Calistoga, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Henry James Clement, Master,
Edward E. Light, Senior Deacon,
Calistoga, Cal.
Harry Abrons, Junior Deacon,
John William Siemsen, Sen. Ward., Franklin Ashton, Marshal,
Charles Afton Carroll, Jun. Ward., James H. Safley, Steward,
Ephraim Light, Treasurer,
Michael S. Boland, Steward,
Charles Wulie Crouch, Secretary, William A. Colburn, Tyler.
Calistoga, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abrons, Harry
Cutler, George Starr
Adams, Ira Winchell
Davis, Charles Greer
Deakin, Eslie Burt
Arms, William
Decker, Porter Alfred
Armstrong, Elbert Lawrence
Ashton, Franklin, P. M.
Easley, Roderick Hugh
Bassett, Ezra Amador
Evey, David Douglass
Benvie, George P.
Farmer, George Lester
BillingB, Elmore Myron, P. M.
Foss, Charles Clark
Boland, Michael Sixon, P. M.
Frank, Ferdinand, P.. M.
Brown, Harry Harding
Gehrman, Frank
Butler, John Samuel
Gerber, John Francis
Butler, Samuel Reed
Gibbs, Horace Lockwood
Callahan, Wm. Daniel
Gravel, Francis Xavier
Carroll, Charles Afton, P. M.
Gray, Robert Wallace
Clement, Henry James
Hicklin, George Thomas
Colburn, William Abbott
Higgins, Andrew Jackson
Collins, Nelson Walton
Hoover, Abram '
Conner, Newton
Hoover, Charles Marion
Hopkins, Peter
Cordes, Tobias John
Hunter, Giles Emory
Crouch, Charles Wiley, P. M.
Crouch, Francis Asahel
Johnston, Richard Purchase
Kahn, Adolph James ·
Crouch, Frank Sherman, P. M.
Kimball, Ruel Mather
Cutler, Frederick Markham

i

ROSTER

360

Kirkpatrick, William Alan
Lerner, Paul
Light, Edward Ephriam, P, M.
Light, Ephriam
Maclean, Marcu's Alexander
Martin, Oscar
Mason, Alex. Francis
Mathewson, Carleton
McArthur, Archibald Henry
Miller, Harry Baughman, P. M.
Monroe, William Alex.
Parish, Henry Lincoln
Patten, Harry Edgar L.
Pickett, Charles Nathan, P. M.
Pickett, Roy Dustin

ROSTER

Robinson, James Percy
Rutherford, John Ritchie
Safley, James Hunter
·Shook, Arthur Lowell
Siemsen, John William, P. M.
· Tamagni, Charles
Teale, Flyod Lester
Ward, A. P.
Willis, David Conner
Wilsoll, John Clarence, P. M.
Wolleson, Martin
Wright, Frederick A.
Wright, Joseph William
Wright, Joseph Carson, P. M.

-75

WITHDRAWN:
Bornhorst, William Frederick
Rutherford, Wallace Taylor
DIED:
Burgess, Charles Melgar

Heriot, David
Holman, George Prescott
I lughes, Llewellyn Hayes, P. M.
Humphrey, James Lockhart
ITnnter, George Calvin
Johnson, Robert Lee
Joy, Charles Riley
Joy, Frank S.
Laffranchini, Acquilio Peter
f,affranchini, Antone
Laffranchini, Charles
r,affranchini, Chas. David
Laffranchini, Louis Antone
La Flam, Walter Henry
f,awler, Robert Emmett
Lawrence, Jackson Hathaway
r,awson, John Jacob
l,esser, Julius
Martin, Richard
Mathews, John Lewis

361

Mathews, Roger David, P. M.
Maxwell, George Albion
Merry, Joseph Francis
Middleton, John William
N eseman, Fred John
Nutter, Frank Leslie
Reynolds, Wm. Clarence
Ramelli, David
Ripley, John Calvin
Robertson, Alexander
Ross, James Lincoln
Scolari, Peter
Shaughnessy, Hughie
Smith, William Mitchell
Thomas, Sylvester Augustus
Totten, John Graham
Webster, James Wellman
Yarrington, Lester Booth
Young, Plumas Arthur

-55

WITHDRAWN:
Bridgeman, Joseph Aarson
Marra, Federico

HOPE LODGE, No. 234.
Beckwith, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Lester Booth Yarrington, M aste1·,
Stephen R Ede, Senior Deacon,
Walter La Flam, Jimior Deactm,
Beckwith, Cal.
David Heriot, Marshal,
David Ramelli, Senior Warden,
Jackson H. Lawrence, Steward,
Albert A. Ede, Junior Warden,
Fred J. Neseman, Steward,
Acquilio Lafranchini, Treasurer,
Sylvester A. Thomas, Tyler.
Louis A. Lafranchini, Secretary,
Vinton, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Dyer, Charles
Arms, William Street
Ede, Albert Arthur
Bergeret, Joseph Aubin
Ede, Charles Walter
Bergeret, Lucien Aubin
Ede, Leonard Greely, P. M.
Campbell, Francis Henry
Ede, Stephen Robert, P. M.
Cate, George Washington
Evans, William
Clark, Eugene Edwin
Guidici, Maurecillio
Davis, Atha Earl
Hamlin, Ray Arma
Dedmon, John Washington

Cate, Putnam M.

DIED:
Dedmon, Henry Pool
Titus, William Henry

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Cedarville, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

William Mullins, Master,
Chris H . Hansen, Senior Deacon,
Cedarville, Cal.
Raymond J. Turner, Junior Deacon,
James Henry Trimble, Sen. Ward., Charles Edwin Cummins, Marshal,
Ceorge Clark Turner, Jun . Ward. , James Wylie, Steward,
\,Yilliam T . Cressler, Treasurer,
Harry Drake Cook, Stewa.rd,
Thomas Henry Johnstone, Secretary, John Sly, Tyler.
Cedarville, Cal.

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Baker, Raymond Roy
Minto, Robert Wield
l\lorgaH, .John Calvin
Berry, Doctor Champlin
Mullins, William, P. M.
Bridgeman, Joseph A.
Murdock, William Stewart
Brown, Chas. Francis
Page, Absalom Lafayette
Burgun, Wm.
Burns, Frank
Parman, William Joseph
Pyle, Charles Hunter
Coates, Winston Decatur, P . M.
Ratcliff, Osmond
Cook, Harry Drake
Richardson, Elijah Allen
Cressler, William T.
Rose, Anthony
Cummins, Charles Edwin
Scott, Gabriel Jackson
Ehrhardt, George Edward
Shartel, William Warren
Gray, Elijah Davidson
Shirk, Lawson Herbert
Grove, David Henry
Sly, John Elison
Hansen, Chris Hans
Snelling, Roy L.
Hansen, John Henry
Stanley, Ransom Heenan, P. M.
Hansen, Louis
Stevens, Ward Spooner, P. M.
Hill, William Edmond
·
Trimble,. James Henry
Johnstone, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Turner, George Clark
Jones, Joseph Lewis
Van Doren, William Edgar
Lamb, Maurice Daniel
Warrens, Geo. Marion
Lindemenn, John Burnam
Warrens, J . Edward
Lyon, Fred Irving
Wylie, James, P. M.
McClintock, Frank
McCormick, William Harvey, P. M. Winder, Norman, P. M .
-41

MEMBERS:
Armistead, Howell Venable, P. M. Parker, Leland Harris, P. M.
Bartch, Frederick
Paulsen, Carl Peter, P. M .
llell, Wm. Stansel
P:fitzer, Frank
Bunker, Frederick Edgecomb
Robison, Elisha Henry
Hunker, William Edwin
Russell, John
Clain, Jules George Sincere, P. M.
Schank, Charles William
Crow, Edward Wyman
f:!hepherd, Rufus E.
Crow, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Hartley Roy
Dalby, Samuel Price
Snyder, John Frank
Dobrzensky, Adolph
Sowers, William Bablan
Draper, William Fisk
Stoyell, ·G uy B.
Dunning, William Albion
Stratton, John ~ugustus, P. M.
Edgecomb, Frederick
Stuhr, Jasper Nicolaisen
Elfers, Charles Deidrich
Thompson, Nilse Andrew
Fortune, James Pulaski
Trefts, Charles Edgar
Hunt, Martin Luthe~
Tucker, Homer Celcis
Jensen, Hans
Wanlhaus, Julius
Kaufman, Norman Wilson
Wirt, Duane Arthur
Kuhns, Elmer
Witcher, Wm. Vincent, Jr.
Lockwood, Nathan Kilburn
Woodworth, Alvin Orton
Macdonald, Geo. Childs
Worthington, Andrew Jackson
McLaughlin, Robert Emmett
Yancey, John Hardin, P. M.
McMurtry, Louis Campbell
Yancey, Thomas Grayson
Mills, Henry Hammer
Yates, Albert Davis
Morris, Julius
Yates, Albert Lansing, P. M.
Ostrom, Gilbert Paul
-51

382

Thompson, Josephus Moore

DIED:
Sawtelle, Frederick Adolphus

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.
Newman, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFlCERS:

Leland Harris Parker, Master,
John Hardin Yancey, Sen. Deaco~
Newman, Cal.
A rthur Henry Fink, Junior Deacoi.1
Carl Peter Paulsen, Senior Warden, Andrew Niels Thompson, Marshal,
Guy Bradley Stoyell, Junior Ward., James Aubrey Riddle, Steward,
Thomas Grayson Yancey, Treasurer, William S. Bell, Steward,
H owell Venable Armistead, Seely., Elmer Kuhns, Tyler.
Newman, Cal.

WITHDRAWN:
Yates, John Davis
DIED :
Williams, Alexander Munroe

360

ROSTER

364

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.
Guadalupe, Santa Barbara County.
etated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full "Moon
OFFICERS:

Francis Joseph McCoy, Master,
Thomas Smith, Chaplain,
Harry Leslie Anderson, Sen. Ward., Henry Robert Gewe, Sen. Deacon,
Israel Martin Burola, Jun. Ward.,
Leone D. Waller, Junior Deac 0n,
Stephen Campodonico, Treasurer,
Walter H. Deisiny, Marshal,
William Rosenblum, Secretary,
Eugene McCullough, Steward,
Guadalupe, Cal.
Harvey Lee Wright, Steward,
Frank James Pratt, Tyler.

Abernethy, F1·ed Clair
Albert, Walter
Anderson, Harry L.
Aquistapace, Felice
Birra, Q;iuseppe
Burola, Isarel M.
CampodoniCo, Frank Edward
Campodon\co, Stephen, P. M.
Charvoz, Alfonso M., P. M.
Clausen, Samuel
Conner, Gregory Carl
Decota, John Robert
Dickie, Daniel
Esterbrook, G. G.
Dundas, John Maurice
Fevini, Peter
Fixter, Alfred
Fuller, Ernest Pearl
Gerre, Henry Robert
Giacomazzi, John, P. M.
Giacomini, Paul
Green, Edwin Burrow
Guzzi, Clemente
Hall, Elmer McKinzie
Johnston, Sidney Alonzo
Lanotti, Virgil, P. M.
Lapanchi, Angelo
Laughlin, Henry James

MEMBERS:
Lewty, David
Lucas, Lee Foreman
Lucas, William Thomas, P. G. M.
McCoy, Francis Joseph
McFarland, Thurston
Moore, Geo. W.
Morganti, Orellino
Newton, William T.
Olson, Charles Augustos
Pala, Carlo
Palmer, Alfred, P. M.
Pezzoni, Battista
Pezzoni, Ernest Julius
Pezzoni, Yittore
Pius, Charles
Powell, John Reese
PurkisB, Myrton Marcus
Rathbun, Fay Fillmore
Ray, Geo. Michael
Righetti, Frank
Rosenblum, William
Sampson, Wm. Foster
Scott, David Silas
Smith, Martin Luth.er
Smith, Thomas Russell
Souza, Antonio Jose
Stokes, Walter William, P. M.
Tognazzini, Tilden Constance

ROSTER
Tognazzini, Ullise
Trefy, Allen William H.
Wade, Henry

365

Waller, Leone D.
Woolley, Albert Yale
Zanetti, Severino

--62

WITHDRAWN:
Carter, Paul Branch
DIED:
Bettridge, Alfred

COLUSA LODGE, No.

240.

Colusa, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Satur<lay of .or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Rutledge, Master,
Thornton Templeton Denhardt, Ch.,
Colusa, Cal.
Hermann Jacobson, Sen. Deacon,
1larry F . Osgood, Senior Warden, William Lloyd Merrill, Jun. Deacon,
Fernando J . Mendonsa, J11n. Ward:, Frank Zea Pirkey, Marshal,
Lora Leon Hicok, Treasurer,
Joseph Baum, Steward,
William T. Beville, Secretary,
Cressey Johnson Wescott, Steward,
Colusa, Cal.
William N. Herd, Tyler.

Ahlf, Adolphus, P. M.
Ahlf, George Peter, P. M.
Ahlf, Herman
Ahlf, John Claus
Anderson, Archibald Barron
Arnold, Phil Brent
Baum, Joseph
Beville, William Thomas
Blean, William Clive
Blevins, Robert Edward
Boulware, Alex. Stockton
Brown, Uriah Waverly
Buster, William Harrison
Butler, Albert Burton
Cosner, Robert, P. M.
DeJarnatt, John Burris
Daly, Arthur Burton
Denton, Harry E.
Etter, Henry Haverlock

MEMBERS:
Farnsworth, George Noble
For.d, Samuel Ben
Goud, James Wilkins
Greenfell, LeRoy W.
Grover, Johnson
Hall, Henry Luster
Harden, George Beatty
Harrington, Tennent
Harrington, William Merrill
Hart, James
Hicok, Lora Lean, P. M.
Herd, William Nichols
Holloway, Edward Shortridge
Hubbard, William Henry
Hurlbert, Randolph
Jacobson, Emil
Jacobson, Hermann
Jackson, John Lowry
Kass, John

366

ROSTER

Kilgore, Frank
Kilgore, Orrin J.
McLean, Francis George
McNary, James David, P. M.
McVay, Irwin Nelson
McVay, Willis Nelson
Mendonsa, Fernando Janquin
Merrill, Wm. Lloyd
Mitchell, Burr Hudson
Mogk, John Charles
0 'Hair, Michael, P . M.
Osgaod, Harry Freeman
Pinney, William Morse
Pountlstone, J esse
Pirkey, Frank' Zea
Poage, Charles Allen
Rathbun, William Timothy
Retterath, George
Robinson, Oscar, P. M.
Rummelsburg, Selig
Rutledge, Thomas, P . M.

ROSTER

St. Maurice, Charles Albert de
St. Maurice, Claude Edward de
St. Maurice, George Ed. de
Scarlett, Arthur Everett
Scott, George Franchville
Showier, George Edward
Smith, George
Stanton, Joseph Byron, P. M.
Swinford, Edwin
Thayer, Albert Austin
Thompson, Milton James
Totten, Marco Bozzaris
Turman, Louis Frank
Vann, Eugene Bird
Vann, William A.
Vickers, Elmer Albert
West, Joseph Simon
Wilson, Worth Wilbur
Young, Charles Walter
Zu~walt, Ivy George

WITHDRAWN:
Ford, Joel Haden
DIED:
Lockwood, Marling M .

SANTA ANA LODGE, No.

241.

Santa. Ana, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
H. Roy Andre, Master,
William Lee Duggan, Chaplain,
309 South Main Street.
Leonard Frank Harvey, Sen. Deac.,
Prince L. Tople, Senior Warden ·
Walter Virne Whitson, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur E. Koepsel, Jun. Warden'
Charles Ferdinand Crose, Marshal,
Max Rcinhaus, Treasurer,
'
Levi Eckley, Steward,
George Akerman Whidden Sec., J ay Howard Turner, Steward,
518 South Main Street. '
Thomas Benton Tyerman, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
' lien, Carrol V.
Anderson, John lllelson
I\ n1lro, H. Roy
i\lbee, Charles Stolf
An1le, George Willard
Atwood, Elmer Dennis
i\111tin, Fr1tnk Lincoln
l11ker, Bayard 'l'aylor
llnlcom, Baylis Greenwood
111\lrlerston, George, P . M.
llall, Charles Dexter
llnrker, Washington Dunn
llarnes, H enry E. W.
Bnxter, Charles Bruce
lleals, Albert
IJe~kwith, Fred Walter
Heisel, Neon al
Benedict, George Marshall
Bird, Addison Elliott
Blake, Edwin Meador
Blodgett, Volney Ebenezer
Bowers, Addison Crockett
llrnkeman, ('h11rles Warren
nrock, Neal Ulm
llrown, I ves L.
Brown, Nathaniel Nelson
Bundy, Milton John, P . M.
Hunker , Henry ·warren
Butz, Adolph
Chapman, Charles Herbert
Cheeney, Tilford Denton
Clapp, Benj. Lewis
Clark, John Ingram
Clevenger, Wm. Warren
Cloyes, Mark Stillman
Cobau, David
Connell, Hiram Davis
Corbett, Robert Vance
Cox, John B.
Crookshank, Miles Mcinnes
Crose, Chas. Ferdinand
Cushman, Ruggles Allerton
J'>nle, Delbert. Amos

Dabbs, Robert Andrew
Daneri, John B. M .
Davis, Samuel McClellan
Davis, J ohn Colvin
Decker, George William
Decker, Willet S.
l)e Long, James William
Diers, Henry
Dobson, George Henry
Dricken , William
Dryer, John Lewis, P. M.
Dungan, Samuel Morrison
Duggan, William Lee
Dunstan, John
E ckley, Levi
Edgar, George Alex.
Edinger, Christopher Columbus
Emerson, Lewis Sleeper
Emerson, Lucius Norman
Ey, Frank
Faust, George Andrew W.
Faust, Willis, Jr.
Ferguson, Joseph
Ferguson, Walter P erry
Forgy, Oly Koskuski
Fox, Charles William
French, Charles Edwin
Gardner, Arthur Bonnicastle
Gilmaker, Joseph
Glenn, Earl George, P . M.
Gockley, David ·
Gordon, Howard Samuel
Greeley, John Philip, P. M.
Griffiths, George Whitefield, Jr.
Griffiths, William Light
Grubb, Wm. Lloyd
Halladay, Wm. David
Halsell, Oliver Linden
Hannah, Charles William
Harding, Foster William
Harris, Herman
Harvey, Leonard Frank
Hately, William

867

368
Haywood, John Saxton
Head, Horace Caldwell
Heaston, James Henry
Hermes, Albert
Hervey, Albert Rhodes
Hill, George Pliney
Hill, Louis Hamilton
Hill, Samuel, P. M.
Hill, Thomas Morse
Hilton, Everett
Hoffman, Frank Thomas
Holt, John
Horton, Roy Seaton
Howenstein, Claude M.
Hull, Harold Guy
Innes, William Law
Johnson, William Ira
Joslyn, Emmett William
Keeler, Marshal Lucius
Kelley, Charles Spurwell
Kellogg, Hiram Clay
Kelly, David Nicol
Kimball, John Wesley 'l'rue
King, John Richard
Kinley, James Frank
Koepsel, Arthur E.
Lamb, John Charles
Lamson, William Bradford
Langley, Edwin Theo., P. M.
Lane, Martin Luther
Lawrence, George Parker
Leihy, Harold Arthur
Leiser, William J.
Lentz, George
Lewis, Otto S.
Lewis, Thomas Jefferson
Livesey, James Edward
Levy, Louis
Lipking, Frederick William
Lovett, Charles Edward
f,utz, William Frederick
f,uxton, Emanuel Henry
Ma jors, Emil Ritt
Makosky, Herman Frank
Martin, John Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER
Mathews, Henry Thomas
Mathews, Mitchell
Mansur, Carlos Fredrick, P. M.
Mansur, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Mason, William Bertie
McCord, William Harris
Mc:Cormac, John Wesley
McD.onald, George Henry
McDonald, Hugh M.
McDowell, John Colvin
McNeil!. Christopher
Mead, Ralph Waite
Medlock, James Randolph, P. M.
Metzgar, James Clow
Meyer, John Edward
Meyer, Henry Dietrich
Mills, Ira D.
Moore, James Fowler
Morrow, Earl Stanley
Morrow, Albert Herbert
Morrow, .James
Mosbaugh, George Jacob
Murkett, Herbert Edgar
Nichols, John Brown
Norton, Geo. Edward
Nourse, John Thomas
Obarr, William Shelby
Overshiner, Charles David
Owen, Albert Joseph
Page, Thomas Percival
Padgham, Albert John
Palmer, Ruben
Palmer, Uriah Dilamarter
Palmer, Will:lur Francis
Parker, Charles Edward
Parker, George Robert
Parks, Joseph
Parsons, John Daniel
Parsons, John Fred
Parsons, Joseph Garrett
Patton, Murray Albert
Paul, James Edgar
Peabody, George Tompkine
Peabody, Henry Adams
Pease, Arthur Henry, P. M.

Perkins, Albert Jackeon
Peterman, Benj. Franklin
Peterman, Joseph Vaughn
Peterson, Charles Oscar
Peters, George Edwin.
Phillips, Jefferson Davis
Potter, Albert Alexander
Pratt, William
Preble, George Edward
Preble, Samuel Ivan
Pumphrey, Charles Hammond
Putnam, John Day
Raplee, William Henry
Ratcliffe, Emory
Reeder, John Milton
Reeves, Herbert H.
Reinhaus, Julius, P. M.
Reinhaus, Max
Reinhaus, Stanley Marks
Ricnaras, Perey
Richardson, Erwin Ellsworth
Robbins, Osmond Milton, P. M.
Roberts, Thomas Leonard
Robertson, Lance Scott
Robinson, George Eddie
Robinson, Fred Martin
Rooney, James Francis
Ross, Charles
Rowland, Fred 'k Clayton
Rowland, John Byers Anderson
Ryan, John George
Sackman, John William
Schenck, Charles Robinson
Seaton, James Allen
Shaw, Linn Lee, P. M.
Sheats, Clarence Warren
Sleeper, James
Shepherd, Frank Irving
Smith, Ezekiel Bernaru, P. M.
Smith, George Stewart
Smith, Harry Roy
Smith, James Thompson
Smith, Robert Lee
Smith, Samuel Franklin
24

369

Snow, James Edmund
Squires, Robert
Stedman, Alvirus Ridgeway
Suddaby, William Samuel
Sullivan, John C.
Sylvester, Harry Oman
Taylor, Martin Van Buren
Thacher, George Scott
Tiede, August Charles
Tillotson, J. Elizur
Tingley, Samuel Earl
Tople, Prince ·L.
Tower, Lewis Edward
Towner, James William, P. M.
Townsend, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Trago, Eli Brock, P. M.
Tresslar, Sidney Pinney
Trickey, Frank Stover
Trickey, Jasper Newton
Trickey, Thomas Nudd
Trickey, Walter Thomas
True, Frank
Turner, James Andrew
Tyerman, Thomas Benton
Uttley, Birkett
Vaudermast, Asa
Vegely, Frank, P. M.
Violett, Charles C.
Visel, Augustus Jacob
Von Schriltz, Isaac Miles
Waffle, Edson Dwight, P. M.
Wallace, Elmer S.
Wasser, Joseph Sylvester
Wasser, Wilbur Wellington
Wassum, Howard Allen
Werhly, John
West, Leonard A.
West, Zephaniah B.
Wheeler, George .Whitfield
Whidden, George Akerman, P. M.
White, Robert Justice
Whitehead, William
Whitson, Reuben Loss
Whitson, Walter Verne

370

ROSTER

ROSTER

Wilhite, William Lane
Wilkinson, Laurence Smith
Winbigler, Theodore August
Winslow, Fred W.
Worden, Frank Lee
Bruner, Francis Marion
~arnsey, Felix Rainey

Wright, Alcinus Young
Young, William Charles
Zerman, Ai::chibald N., P. M.
Zielian, John James

-ar.1

WITHDRAWN:
*Hickey, Glenn Harrison
*Menges, Mark Millard
Save, Paul

SUSPENDlDD FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Smith, Allen Fowler
DIED:
Clark, William C.
Menges, Marion Albert
Coulter, Orel Harris
Preble, James Orme
Henrickson, Abram Bennett
Smalley, William
Jones, Erastus Clinton
Stanton, George Munson
Wood, Allen Jefferson
' Degrees conferred d uring the ye a r .

MAGNOLIA LODGE, No.

242.

Sa~ta Barbara,

Santa Barbara County.
St a ted Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
J ames Wilson Smith, Master,
Benj . Franklin Thomas, Chap~
Santa Ba rba ra, Cal.
Charles Philip Reynolds, Sen. Deac;,
Geo. Washington McComber, S . . iv ., H orace Arthur Sexton, Jun. Deac.,
Emmet Field Rodenbeck. Jun . W., J ohn Thompso.n Johnston, Marshal,
J acob I. Eisenberg,- Treasurer,
Charles Henry Williams, Steward,
Philip Crother', Secrctar31,
Allen Eugene Rogers, Steward1
Santa Ba rba ra, Cal.
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ax tell, Joseph Daniel
Christensen, Mads
Bainbridge, James Card en
Clark, Wilson Lincoln
Baker, George Russell
Clough, George Ben
Beatty, Clay Hathaway
Conant, Frank Adelbert, P. M.
Bentz, Nathan
Crimminger, Charles Mance
Bond, Charles Scott
Crother, Philip
Butcher, William Preston, P. M.
Cunnane, William Bernard
Carrel, George Russell
Dane, George Burt

l>ay, Willian1 Clarence
l>lehl, John }'rederick
l)uffey, Homer Nelson
lllaves, Albert Thomas ·
J!ll1enberg, Jacob I.
Ewing, Frank John C. L.
Jarnsworth, . Hugh T.
Fish, Henry Berrien
Fish, Thomas Nathaniel
Flick, Byard George
Freemansdorf, William Frederick
Frost, Samuel
Oagner, Louis Edward
Granger, Joseph Riley, P. M.
Hanlon, John
Hartell, John Edward
Hassinger, James Charles
Hawley, Walter Augustus
Heck, John Wesley, P. M.
llickey, F loyd Jamison
lloque, Ja mes· Valentine
Hollings, Richard B.
Hollisfer, Harold Albert
Humphrey, DeWitt C.
Hunter, John Stockton
Hurst, .Julius Harold
.Tohnst.on, Fred Lyle
.Johnston, John Thompson, P. M.
K eiser, Milton Da niel
Kincaid, Joseph Albert
Kuster, Adolf I.
Lebo, Clarence Alva
Lillard, Jeremiah Beverly
L in quist , August Ludvick
L owsley, J an1es Dennis
Ma cBratney, William Charles
Ma dison, Arthur E dward
Matthews, J ohn
Mccomber, George Washington
Curtis, Charles

371

\foPeak, Claude Erman
Miller, George Albert
Miller, Willard Isaac
Monteith, Andrew Ector
More, Warren D.
Morton, James St. Clair
Nielson, Wiley Cleveland
Phoenix, Charles Elwood
Reynolds, Ambrose
Reynolds, Charles Phillip, P. M.
Richardson, Lance, P. M.
Ricketts, Summerfield T., P. M.
Rodenbeck, Emmett Field
Ross, William
Rounsevel, Ashton William
Rounsevel, Lyman
Rounsevel, Walter Howland
Rust, William Lepage
Scales, Horace H.
Senteney, George Albert
Sexton, Horace Arthur
Sexton, Harry Eugene
Sloan, James Esler
Smith, James Wilson, P. M.
Smith, Rufus Dana
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Thwaites, Lewis
Tubbs, Jerome Fernando
Walker, George F.
West, John Edward
Whipple, Joseph
Whitman, Roy Benum
Whittingham, Martin
Williams, Charles Henry
Williams, George Martin
Wilson, Jerome Calvin
Winchester, Robert Fulton
Wood, Clio Leonard
-93

WITHDRAWN:
F oster, Frank Brooks
Hayma n, Albert
DIED:
Day, William Scott

ROSTER

ROSTER

EUCALYPTUS LODGE, No. 243.
Haywards, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Martin J. Madison, Master,
Edwin Frank Musson, Chaplain,
Hayward, Cal.
William Wallace Haley, Sen. Deac.J
George Edmund Reynolds, Sen. W., Theodore Nielson, Ju11ior Deacon,
Charles F. Suss1 Junior Warden,
Alonzo Bradford, Marshal, .
Joseph David Armstrong, Treasurer, George Woodland Madeley, Stewqrll,
John Elmer Welsh, S ecretary,
Harrison White Holmes, Steward.
Hayward, Cal.
Carl Oscar Dable, Tyle.r;
Alexander, Archie Addison
Alexandet, Geotge Edward
Armstrong, Joseph David
Backus, Matthew Watson
Banks, John Albert
Bock.man, Frederick Herman
Boc1rn1an, John Wi11{en
Borree, James Johnson
Bradford, Alonzo
Bradford, Harry Alonzo
Brier, K enneth Wilford
Brunner, Henry Ernst
· Christensen, Jens· Lauritzen
Christensen, Willi!tm Tyrol!
Clawiter, Edward Henry
Crosby, Peter James
Curley, John Edward
Cutler, Frederick Storer
Dahle, Carl Oscar
Dennis, Frank
Edgar, George Avery
Edwards, Samuel C.
Fenton-Smith, William Harvey
Fischer, Albert Ehrhardt
Frick, George William, P. M.
Gray, George
Gorrie, Thomas Cullen
Grindell, George Edward
Haley, William Wallace
Harder, Jacob

MEMBERS:
Harrison, George E.
Hinckley, Horace Cameron
Holmes, Harrison White
Howland, Eli
Johnson, Matthis
Johnson, Peter
Jones, Edward William
Kavanagh, Geo. Walter
Kolze, Robert Aug. Frank, P . M.
Krap, Jes Mathaus Hansen
Lassen; Hans
Long, Charles Stuart, P. M.
Lovejoy1 William Robert
Macintosh, James Thomas
Madison, Martin J.
Madsen, Soren
Maggioli, Silvio
Mansfield, doorge
Martin, Paul
Mathiesen, Hails
Mathiesen, Peter
May, Adam
May, Christian Adolph
Mcconaghy, John; P . :M.
Meek, William Ellsworth
Meek, William Harold
Montgomery, Bert Beamer
Moore, John Wesley ·
Musson, Edwin Frank, P. M.
Neudeck, Carl Nicholas

Neudeck; Geo. Wm.
Newman, George Henry
Nielson, Theodore
Oliver, Adolph August
Oliver, Henry Andrew
Parsons, Isaac Brown
Petray, Henry Calvin
Picken~, William Wash.
Prosser, John Raymond
Prowse, Charles
Prowse, Joseph Bradshaw
Ramage, William Arthur
Reid, Rinaldo
Reynolds, George EdIJ1µnd, P. M.
Rosenberg, Leonard Roscoe

:!73

Rowlands, William Edward, P. M.
Russell, Thomas Bartlett, P. M.
Schafer, Henry August, P. M.
Sequeria, John Joseph
Sorensen, Hans
Sorensen, Lawrepce T.
Stanton, Thomas Joseph
Strobridge, Bert A.
Suss, Charles E'.
Thomas, Charle11 fraJ1k, F. M.
Thompson, Hans
Thorup, Harold
Turri, Matteo
Welsh, Jopn Elmer, P. M.
Worrell, Leo Preston
-90

WITHDRAWN:
Browne, Ralph Stuart
DIED:
Griffis, Sabin

ALCATRAZ LODGE, No. 244.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stfi,ted Yeeti1:1g11, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Howard Petersen, Sen. Deac.1
J ames Cassius Smith, Master,
Carl C. Eien, Junior Deacon,
489 Ninth St., Oakland, Cal.
Jacques Leonard Vandenbos, S. W., Ernest M. Blaess, Marshal,
Warren Guice Mobley, Treasurer, Richard George Moore, Steward,
Herbert Atherton Glines, Secretary, James Heraud Carder), Steward,
Homer W. Smay, Tyler.
1450 Seventh St., Oakland, Cal.
Gns Charles Magerstaedt, Chaplain,
Adams, Charles Henry
Adams, Claude Nichols
Adamson, Franklin Cbris.
Adamson, Geo. Wffl,
Aldrich, Hugh Sbatter,
Alison, Archie
Allgewahr, August EugeJ1e
Andresen, ll!lrold Sopbu11
Anderson, Edward Ja11Je1

MEMBERS:
A.nderson, Fra1:1k William
Anderson, Wm.
Ansel, .Jacob Carl
Asher, Walter Gresh~m
Aspen, Edwarcj J<1hn~n
Austin, George William
Avan, Wi.l liam Johp
Bachrach, Henri l9'lllC
Baker, Alvin Walter

3i4
Baker, Henry Mathews
Baker, James Bartlett
Barnes, Harry Clinton
Barnes, James Louis
Barnett, Rufus Putnam
Beaton, Frederick Charles
Beck, John Henry
Blackwell, Robert John
Blackwell, Stanley .John
Blaese, Ernest Michael
Blaese, Fred 'k Jacob
Blanchard, Cyrus Edgar
Bock, George
Borchert, Henry Augustus
Bowles, Arthur Gordon
Boyce, Edwin Herbert
Boyle, Michael John
Bramstedt, William Ch~istian
Braswt>ll, Lewis Frank
Braun, Charles Julius
Braun, Philip Strohm
Bronstrup, Gustave Adolph
Bruce, John Howie R.
Bruhning, Emil Geo. H.
Brum!, Arthur Benedict
Buchanan, Alex.
Buckingham, George Albert
Bucknum, James Harvey
Burgess, Samuel William
Burlison, Thomas Nile
Buzzo, Benjamin Heywood
Buzzo, Joseph Thomas
Carden, Jamee Heraud
Carc1well. James Martin
Cardwell, John Henry
Cardwell, Joseph William
Carlson, Oscar Rinhold
Carman, Charles Way
Carman, Frank Vanoy
Carpenter, George
Chapman, George Earl
Chase, Quincy Acastus
Christensen, Christ
Christianson, Robert
Classen, Albert

ROSTER

ROSTER
Climo, Samuel
Coates, William Henry
Uockburn, Wm. Alfred
Cogswell, John Benjamin
Coley, Vernon Jackson
Comstock, Herbert Mark
Cook, Milton Marcus
Cope, Harry Beisly
Corwin, Lewis Thornton, P. M.
Cotton, Georgo Douglas
Cozzens, Arthur Eugene
Crabb, Porter Voorhees
Crandley, William John
Crawford, Frank Reed
Crossman, Archie Kearn
Crossman, Edwin John
Crossman, John, P. M.
Crossmitn, Roy Everett
Crossman, William Thomas
Cummings, Lawrenc Wash.
Dailey, William Curtis
Dallerup, Benjamin
Davidson, William
Davis, Charles Franklin
Davison; William Gardiner, P. M.
Deaner, Hiram Franklin
Demers, Lester Aime
Demooy, Frank
Dickerson, James Henry
Dickson, George
Deardorff, William Perry
Deckard, Stephen Anderson
Dieves, Charles Isaac
Dieves, Joseph August
Dodds, 'l.'homas Garfield
Douglass, Frank Johnson
Douglass, Je.mes Alexander
Dunsmore, William Gelchrist
Edmonds, Thomas
Edwards, .Henry John
Edwards, Walter John
Eiben, Frederick Gerhard
Eien, Carl C.
Fairchild, Clauc1e Wilkins
Farrell, Sidney Herbert

fay, Max Henry
l'lnely, Charles John Jasper
l•'lnk, Samuel Herman
Fogelstrom, Walter John H.
Fo1ter, Sydney Hill
Fraser, John Eugene
Fraser, Neil
CJardner, David Thomae
Oardner, Hiram Smith
Onrrity, Elbert Washington
Gemmell, Stewart Farwell
Gentis, William Ira
Olbeon, Charles Luke
llibson, Edward Franklin
Glines, Herbert Atherton, P. M.
Godbeer, William
llorham, William John
Graham, Robert Grant, P. M.
Graham, Edward Joseph
CJray, Frank Virgil
Gray, James
Oreen, Stanley
Greenlee, James William
Hadcock, Eugene Berrel
Hele, Harry Hubbard
Hale, Louis Wm.
Hall, James
11 arjes, William Edward
Harrigan, John William
Harris, Theo. Howard
Havard, Richard Daniel
Heckell, William Frederic
Hewitt , Allan James
Hewitt, Lowen Gifford
Higuera, Ferdinand
Hufschmidt, Alfred Frederick
Huggins, Henri Tyler, P. M.
Hughes, Arthur Dean
Hunter, William Alex., P. M.
Ingersoll, Clarence George
Isaacs, Alfred Solomon
.Tackson, Oliver Mann
Jamieson, John Carlyle
Jansson, Fritz Paul
Jeffress, John Kennedy

Johnson, Frank, Jr.
Johnson, Wilhelm Magnus
Johnstone, Andrew Edward
Johnstone, John Crawford
Johnstone, Robert
,Junes, Fred Thomas
.Junes, Mathew Hines
Jordan, Earl Leroy
Jorgensen, Johannes Christian
Kane, Jas. Garland ·
Kelly, Edwin Forriest
Keyser, John Harold
Kieley, John Francis
Kirschbaum, Jens Peter L .
Kitto, William John
Ky<ld, Isaac Ferguson
Lagtirson, Walter Henry
Lambourne, Arthur Frederick
Lane, William
Lane, William Thomas
Lang, Frederick William
Langford, Thomas
Larson, Axel Emil
Lawry, William John, P. M.
Leslie, John Dawson
T,ind, William Grarcie
Linstcr, Peter Edward
Long, Albert Vance
Long, William
Lowell, Frank
Lumsden, William Stephen
Lundin, August
Lutgen, George Vest
Lutgen, John Peter
Macdonald, Charles John
MacGregor, Henry Mortimer
Ma.dison, Maurice Au1tin Henry
Magerstaedt, Gus Charles
Magerstadt, Paul Erwin
Mahan, James Claud
Mahony, William Henry
Maiden, Frederick Bruce
Mangan, John Martin
Marcus, Geo. Peter
McComb, Edward

3i5

376
McDonald, Frank Jeese
McDonald, George Bruce
McGrath, Augustus P.
McGuffick, George Nelso:o
Mcintire, Austin Garfield
McKay, William
McKeen, Albert Atwit.ter, P. M.
McKeen, Herman Scott
McKellar, Alexander
McKellar, Harry Duncan
McKenzie, Joseph Henry
McLean, Edward John
McLeod, Angus Martin
McMillan, Wallace
McRae, John Herbert
Meade, Linley Merwin
Medros, Joseph Jll80:o
Meese, Henry Adolph, P. M.
Megraw, George Emery
Melvin, James Ga.rland
Meves, Bernhard, Sr.
Meves, Bernhard A., Jr.
Meyers, John Hart
Miller, Martin Mahlen
Mobley, Warren Guice, P. M.
Moon, Holly Francis
Moore, John Briggs
Moore, Richard Geo.
Moore, Robert H.
Mosbacher, George
Mueller, Ernest
Mur~.hison, James Daniel
Murphy, Eugene Joseph
Murphy, James Joseph
Myers, William Everett
Myrick, John Brown
Neal, William Waterman, P. M.
Nedderman, Benjamin
Neilsen, Francie Joseph
Neilsen, Hans Frederick
Nicol, William SCQtt
Nissen, Julius Linnit
Nor, Andrew Jorge11-11en
Nussbaum, August Otto
0 'Brien, Thomas Edward

ROSTER
Oesch, Edward Dee
O'Neil, Peter J.
Owens, Eric Hjalmar
Parker, David Elmer
Partridge, Abram Peter
Pasquale, Edward V1i.Ienti11e .
Paulsen, Ludwig Otto
Peacock, Alfred, P. M.
Pegg, Ernest Francis
Perkins, Eugene S., P. M.
Peterson, Arthur Howard
Peterson, Peter Hansen
Pett, David
Pollard, Homer
Pontiou11, Joseph Edwin
Porter, George Washington
Powell, George Garfield
Preslar, Henry Allan
Prince, Julius Theban
Pringle, James
Putzar, Edward Louis
Raphael, William Kinney
Redington, Charles Henry, Jr.
Redington, Charles Henry, P. M.
Redington, Jo Peter
Reed, James Lon
Reed, Thomas
Reilinger, Edward Nathan
Renshaw, John George
Replogle, John Stout
Rerat, Albert Louis
Rhein, Williaip. H.
Rittigstein, Frank Adolph
Rittigstein, Herman
Rive~s, Paul Stuart
Robertsan, Albert Atwater
Robertso:q, Eobert
Rogers, Edward Almond
Ruley, Guy Fairfax
Iiunyon, Paul
Russell, Williain Hicks
Sanborn, William ;Relly, P. M.
Sandelin, Charle11 1'red4riek
Sangster, Weston Da.rrell
Sartori, Augustirw :raulo

ll.OSTER
Scheithe, Carl F.
Schiveley, Arthur Marion
Sclmeider, Henry Joseph
Schrock, William A.
Schumacher, August Peter
Schwarz, Henry, P. M.
Searles, Niles, Jr., P. M.
Seller, John
Sheldon, William Wallace
Hiefe1', Prancjs Michael
Simmons, Leland Stanford
Hjoberg, John Gustaf, P. M.
Skilling, Henry Hugh
Slaughter, Charles Matthew
Slaven, John 'fhompson
Smay, Homer W.
Smith, Andrew Perry
Smith, George Frederick
Smith, James Cassius
Smith, Orville, Alex.
Snook, Charles Edward, P. M.
Soderstrand, Arthur Frank
Solomon, Isadore Edward
Sommer, Charles Henry, P. M.
f:!o,..,nAAn. Hans Frederick
Sorensen, Jesse Reinhold
Stephens,. Ira Oscar
Stephens, Samuel
Stephe.ns, Thomas
Stenart, Carl Bruce
Stokes, Levi
St. Pierre, John
Stromgren, George Albert
Stromgren, Gustave Adolph
Htreuber, Arthur Carl
Suber, Timothy Brooks
Swanson, Albert
Swenson, Charles
Tait, Allen .Jamee
Tambs, Emil
'I'ambs, Hartnig Carsten.
Tarr, Alvin Eugene
Thomas, Charlea Goodwin

Thomas, William John
Torrence, Henry George
Trigg, William 'fhomas
Trombley, Henry
Undhjen, Ole
Van Buskirk, Longwill
Vandenbo11, Jaeque11 Leonard
Verg, M11rk Earl
Vetter, Nichola11
Walker, Thomas Ro11e
Walker, William Henry
Walters, Valentine
Ware, Francis Edgar
Warness, Axel Christoffer
Warness, Paul Andrew
Watson, Warren Mortimer
Weigt, William Albert ·
West, George Elmer
Westdahl, James Robert
Weston, William Pomroy
White, Albert Frederick
White, Comellius
White, Herman Shea
White, Joseph
WhiteJiea.d, Thomas
Williams, David W.
Wiley, Jasper Grant
Wilkes, Farrington
Wilkes, William Ernest
Willard, Charles Martin
Williams, Ernest Clement
Williams, Frank Delmore
Williams, John Jones
Williams, Robert Richard
Wilson, Andre"' John
Winthar, Thomas Ludwig
Wolf, Joseph
Wooley, Eliphat Burt, P. M.
Wrede, AuiUllt Adolph
Wyllie, Robert Peda.n
York, Albert Thomas
Young, Theodore Henry
Zeimer, Henry Ka.hn

377

-.874

ROSTER

378

WITHDRAWN:
Aird, Alexander Fisher
Lister, Kenne.th Gordon
Champion, Louis Fred
Poulson, Christian Nicola
*Stokes, Franklin Meredith
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Allen, John William Tamas
Krueger, Paul Frederick
McKeen, Arthur Hugh
Barrett, Lawrence Whitlatch
Merrill, Arthur
Chase, David Bunnell
Putney, Edward Fisher
Dahlgren, Gustave
Everett, Charles Daniel
Siddorn, Edward
Wills, John Tyzzer
DIED:
Schindler, Henry Bernard .
Snook, William Sayer
Wilson, James B.

Dallerup, John
Sargent, George
•Rtostored during the year.

LAUREL LODGE, No. 245.
Willows, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, third Friday_ in each month.
OFFICERS:

Lucien Maurice Benoit, Master,
Joseph C. Eubanks, Chaplai11,
· Bayard Knock, Senior Deacon,
Willows, Cal.
Harry C. Bell, Senior. Warden,
Carroll Charles Miller, Jim. Deacon,
Malcolm A. Knock, Junior Warden, Marion Pirkey, Marshal,
William Watson, Ste"ward,
James Madison Silvey, Treasurer,
Leland Stanford Drew, Steward,
·Leon Speier, Secretary,
John Henry Zumwalt, Tyler.
Willows, Cal.
A'ery, Edward Emmet
Bailey, John Amity
Barber, Henry Dwight
Barham, Edwin
Bartlett, Arthur Wayland
Belieu, William TJiomas
Bell, Harry C.
Benoit, Lucien Maurice
Black, Robert Lee, P. M.
Boyd, Jamee
Brock, Malcom

MEMBERS:
Bungard, George
Cardiff, George Henry
Chaney, Samuel Marshall, P. M.
Cimpher, Edmund Drake
Cobb, Byron Otis, P. M.
Cowart, Zachariah Taylor
Crawford, Fred 'k Gustavus, P. M. ·
Crawford, Russell Tracy
Dahlin, Frank Edward
Danner, Jefferson Davie, P. M'.
Davis, Charles Wilson

ROSTER
Duvis, Joseph Addison
Drew, Leland Stanford
Drew, Napolian Bonepart
Duncan, Addison Eugene
J<:8sex, Gerald Knight
~:tter, Omer Rasor
Farnham, Daniel Cromwell
.Finch, William Morton, P. M.
Freeman, Frank
Freeman, George Richard
Freeman, William Valentine
Gardner, Jerome Teuksbury
Garnett, Hugh McCune
Garrison, Edwin Moore, P. M.
Graves. Fremont Ashurst
Graves, John Hiram, P. M.
Gutman, Gustave Arthur
Harvell, James Ephram
Hatcher, George Jackson
Hirsch, Otto Nathan
Hochheimer, Ira
.T ensen, Peter
Klemmer, Lenus Jacob
Kline, Ben George
Knock, Bayard
Knock, Malcolm A.
Knock, Thomas
Knock, Thomas L.
Lathrop, Charles John, P. M.
Levy, Ellis J.
Linderoot, August John
Lindstrom, Albert Ste'\"art
Markewitz, Milton
McDaniel, Joseph Elijah
McRae, Alex.
Merrill, William Reed
Miller, Carroll Charles
Miller, Isaac
Clark, Pleasanton Henderson
Hochheimer, Moses
Marshall, William Walker

37\J

Mitchell, James Henry
Montgomery, Elmer Frank
Moody, Frank, P. M.
Moore, Harry
Newman, CharleR
Nordyke, Marion Augustus
Orr, George Wesley, P. M.
.!:'age, Elmer Harvey
Pirkey, Marion
Randolph, John Andrew
Raper, Orville Lawrence
Raulins, Frank
Rhodes, Howard Eustace
Robison, Enos Cordell
Rossi, Nicholas Louis
Schofield, Frank Crane
Scott, William Winfield, P. M.
Silvey, James Madison
Smith, William Augustus
Snowden, James William
Snowden, Raymond Leslie
Speier, Leon
Squier, Elisa Gibbs
Squier, Hemen Gray, P. M.
Stewart, Francis Davis
Stiles, Clarence L.
Stiles, Luther Clarence
Talcott, Frederick William
Tyler, Elias Mortimer, P. M.
Watson, William
West, Hiram Leroy
Wickes, Lew Ernest
·' Williams, Frank Wesley
Winkler, James Jackson
Wylie, Hartsen Delmer
Wylie, John Elsworth
Zumwalt, John Henry
Zumwait, William Raymond
-98
DIED:
Mellor, George
Neate, Sidney Herbert
Pollock, Joseph Edwin .

380

ROSTER

RQSTJ!:R

POMONA LODGE, No. 246.
Pomona, Los Angeles County.
Stated ¥eetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Richard Iiutchings, Master, Walter Brewster Todd, Chapzai,.,
Frederick Rice Lewis, Sen. Deacofl,
Pomona, Cal.
Harry Edison Russell, Sen. Warden, Louis Elmer Sheets, Jun. Deac011,
Jerome Adelbert Ludden, Marshal,
.A lbert J. Close, !mi. Warden,
Stacy Wendell Clapp, Steward,
Charles Micah Stone, Treasurer,
Wilson Davis Frederick, Secretary, Benjamin Chaft'ey Shepherd, Stewa,.tl,
Foedoon D. Baker, Tyler.
Pomona, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Acres, Arthur Warren
Caves, Chiever Clark
Charles, Fred Henly
Anderson, Henry Cl11y
Anaerson, James Bll!-ne
Chauncey, Williaru Jiimes
Avis, Americus Benizetti
Clark, Charles
Clark, Charles Ralph
Ashton, Palmer
Avery, Albert Sinclair, l'. M.
Clark, Lloyd, Richard
Clapp, Stacey Wendell
Babcock, William Washington
Close, Albert J,
Bacon, Fred A.
Baker, Cha.rles Pavid
Close, Joseph Androus
Baker, Foedooµ D.
Cobb, George Woodworth
Cohn, Nathan
Balclwin, Frank HeI1ry
Cowdery, George Willis
Barnum, Herbert Warren
Cowles, Lyman Warner
Baynham, Fr.a11k Leslie
Craig, Gavin
Beck, Clarenae
Cramore, William Theo.
Bell, James Edison
Crookshank, David Craµe
Bouquet, Edwin Cl11renc.e
Bowen, Charles Oscar
Crawford, Thomas Travis
Bowen, John F.
Davis, Raymond Milton
Bowman, Jonii.01an Ve11-c:4, l'. M.
Delawie, Fred E.lr
Dennis, Arthur Edward
Boyd, Leonard H.
Boyd, Sydney Jii11s)ey
Dickie, William
Diller, Herman
Boyd, Sydney Robert
BGyes, George
Dole, Arthur Macdonald
Dorsey, Kewen Hilliard
Brown, F rederick Alfred
Doughty, Charles Homer
Brown, Rae
Douglass, Ernest
Brown, William Elliott
Douglass, Joseph
Bryant, Leslie G~orge
Burke, Allen Willud
Dowling, Thomae Jackeoa
Dreher, Edwin Ludwig
Caldwell, Andrew Becton
Dreher, Peter John
Campbell, Melvin

Dye, John Hiram
Eells, Geotge Nelson
J~lder, Noble Smith
Fich, Bertram
Fitch, Joseph Ahira
Fite, Earl Eugene
Ford, Elmer lt.
Ford, Frank Watner
Ford, Seldom Ir'1'ing
Fosdick, Clarence Wateon
Fox, Charles James
Fox, Charles Kirby
Frankel, Samuel
Frederick, Wilson Da'1'id
Friedman, Herman
Fritsch, Otto Loren
Gallup, .John Adam, P . M.
Garcelon, Frank, P. M.
Gates, Clyde A.
Geer, Francis Herman
Gilbert, Samuel L.
Goodchap, Louis Pierre
Graham, Fred Eugene
Graf, Robert Edward
Gr ant, Ramond A.
Gray, William Allen
Ground, George Arda
Guerin, Clarence Walter
Hall, George A.
Ransler, Frank Ernest
H anseJJ, Hans Broderson
Harkins, Walter Victor
Harris, Charles McPherson
Harris, John Gilbert
Harrison, Frank E.
Haskin, Lorenzo Hix
Hayes, Calvin Campbell W.
Hefti, Rudolph
Henderson, Edward
Hennessy, William John
Hibbard, Clinton Whitney
Hibbard, Ethan Allen
Hicklin, Edward
Hill, Ramond Chalmers
Hillen, Josl!ph Henry

Hinman, Ell:.>ti
Hoffmast er, Edgat Joseph Lemp
Hoover, William Scott
Houdyshel, Cecil Etnest
Howell, Wi!iiam lillt'1'y
Huf!.', Charles Clark
Hunter, Arthur Daniel
Hutchings, Charles Richar•l
Hyatt, Frank Henry'
Jackson, Arthur Buxton
.Jencks, George
Jess, Stoddard
Johnson, Frank Walter
Johnson, J atrtes Dixon
Joos, John William
Jones, Floyd M.
Kelly, 1':::Jmer Ellsworth
Kennedy, William A.
Kerekhotr; Hermann Henry
Kessler, William
Kinney, Harry Hartman
Kitchen, Edwin Bruce
Knox, Reginald Ligenbager
Lane, Walter Loren
Lattin, Wi1liam Martin
' Leake, Norman Augustus
Lenk, Theodore Edwin
Leslie, William
Lewis, Frederick Rice
Lewis, Walter Atwood, P. M.
Loney, James
Ludden, Collins Atielbert
Ludden, Hugh Courtney
Ludden, Jerome A., l'. M.
Ludden, Maurice Eugene
Lund, Asa Solyman
Lyon, Will Bartley
Martin, Frederic
Martin, Frederick Herbert
Martin, William Thomas, l'. M.
Mathews, Lee Rex
McCollum, John Timon
McCormick, William Arthur
McGowan, James Edwin
Mecham , Edwin Warren

:-J81

38'.!

Merriam, Amos Johnson
Merrill, George Whitney
Metz, Michael Kar
Midgley, Wilmot Wentworth
Millikin, Thomas Draper
Minier, Dee Waite
Mishler, Ralph Thomas
Moles, Samuel David
Molyneaux, Francis Asbury
Monahan, John William
Moon, Thomas James
Morris, Noah
Morrison, Edward Hugh
Mosher, George Erastus
Mumford, Ira Edgar Leroy
Myers, Milton Armsted
Nichols, Allen Penfield, P. M.
Nichols, Hervey James
Niedermeyer, Frederick William
Noble, Robert James
Olcott, Shepard Pond
Orr, Robert Hall
Palmer, .Frederick Belcher
Park, Herman Earl
Paul, Charles Wesley
Peck, George Washington
Persons, Richard -Sandford
Pirdy, Adelbert James
Perry, Mulford
Phelps, Charles Austin
Phillips, George Stephen
Phillips, William Riley, P. M.
Pierce, Charles Sumner
Pinnola, Louis
Porter, Dadd Camilon Webster
Poston, William Herbert
Potter, Mark Hugunin
Powers, Se hon Wadsworth
Priestley, Charles Ward
Rampton, Charles Henry
Reed, Alfred Cummings
Reed, Alfred Riley
Reynolds, Henry Presley
Rice, Bruce Arthur
Rice, Charles Earl

ROSTER

ROS'rER
Rice, Newton J.ames
Richards, Adison Whitaker
Rickerich, William B'.enry
Rickett, Ario Edward
Robinson, Edmund Clark
Robinson, ]!'rank Clark
Robinson, George Prentiss
Roberds, Charles Harrison
Rose, Willard Roscoe
Roupetz, Perry Edward
Russell, Harry Edison
Saltonstall, William Matthew
Sanborn, Arthur Newton.
Sanders, Thomae Gregor.y
Schutze, Leonard Paul
Seaver, Carlton,, P. M.
Seaver, Frank Roger
Sheets, Henry Lee
Sheets, Louis Elmer
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey
Shoemaker, Jesse Ralph
Short, Cecil Hackney
Shutts, Fred Ordway
Siddell, William Allen
Silvey, George
Sleeper, Edward Howard
Sleeper, William Henry
Smith, William Daniel
Snow, Albert FlaYel, P. M.
Spears, Claude C.
Spicer, Charles
Stabler, Ira M.
Staig, Arthur Davis
Staples, Robert Martin
Steadman, Charles Arthur
Steffa, George Addison
Stevenson, Ira
Stiles, William Henry
Stone, Cnarles Micah
Stormer, William Ernest
Swindt, Joseph Keener
Tanner, Walter
Taylor, Robert Nesbit
Teague, Walter
Thatcher, Hugh Arlington

Thomas, Anson Case
Thomas, Frank W ebsttir
Tismernt, Zacharie·
Todd, Walter Brewster
'l'oland, Clarence Gains
•rruitt, William Henry, Jr.
Turner, George Madison
'rwomey, Samuel Parks
Tyson, Marion
Vandegrift, William Alfred, P. M.
Walker, Charles Edwin
Wallace, .Tohn Meredith
Ward, Wendell Willia1i1
Ware, Edward Septimus
Waterman, George Augustus
Walcott, Herbert Edwin
Weigle, August Matthew
Weigle, Charles Fred
Welch, Everett Haskell, P. M.
Wentworth, Clyde Samuel
Werner, Clarence Oliver

SUt;P1'~ND.ED

Camp, Orrin Bridges
Crites, Donald Barbour
Edwards, George

Wheeler, Frank
White, Edwin Plimpton
White, Jay John
Whyte, John
Widcles, Robert James
Wildman, William
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson
Wilkinson, Jame.s Henry, P. M.
Williams, Neiles Herman
Williams, Noah
Wilson, Charles Patton
Wilton, Edwin, P. M.
Witman, Alex. Hamilton
Witman, Alex. Hamilton, Jr.
W olstencroft, Jam es
Wood, Uriah Smith
Woolery, Joseph Milton
Woy, Charles W.
Wright, Charles Digby
Wright, John Kennelly
-282
Young, Victor Russell

WITHDRAWN:
Pool,.George Anthony
Poper, Guy Fox
Strader, John Collins
White, Frederick Alson
Wilson, James William

Caldwell, Gus Becton
Debrunner, Vitus
Herder, William
Hoke, Orrie Wilson
Newnum, Orlancls Jay

FOH

NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Garcelon, Harris
Rice, .George Heber
Scott, Henry
Webb, Clarence Edward

Armstrong, Ja.mes Lapsley
Martin, William Claiborn
Overholtzer, Oscar Lee

383

DIED:
Powers, James Macnish
Short, William Martin
Wright, Silas Gould

3!!4

ROSTER

ROSTER

FRESNO LODGE, No. 247.
Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ben Randal! Walker, Master,
Ardie Lee Smith, Chaplain,
374 Calaveras Avenue.
Carl Augustus Lisenby, Sen. Deaco...
William John Barris, Sen. Warden, Charles Martin Chalup, Jun. DeacOI\,
George Washington Turner, Jun. W., Th-0mas Jefferson Hammond, Mari,
Leopold Gundelfinger, Treasurer,
Clarence Albert Edgecomb, Stewar(/a
J oseph Layman Beall, Secretary,
Edwin Erwin Webster, Steward,
2033 Fresno Street.
Arthur Henry Costley, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bramblett, James MitGhell
Aarestrup, Theo.
Brooks, Albert Preston
Alexander, Walter Edwin
Brooks, William Washington
Allen, Axel
Allum, LeRoy Martin
Bullock, Edward
Anderson, Frank William
Burk, John T.
Burke, Fred Miller
Anderson, .G us Walter
Burks, Floyd Launcelot Rowell
Anderson, .James
Anderson, .Joseph Green
Burks, William Tillman
Burleigh, Charles Morrell
Appley, .Judson
Burnham, Floyd
Ashman, Stonewall .Jackson
Bachant, David Lewis
Burness, Hector
Baldwin, John West
Bussey, Wade Hampton
Butler, Alban Bernard
Bang, Anders
Barham, Courtney L.
Byrd, Charles H.
Barker, Charles Willis
Cardwell, Bert
Barnwell, David Monroe
Cate, James Wilbur
Cathcart, Benjamin Franklin
Barrett, Charles William, P. M.
Chalup, Charles Martin
Bates, Dudley Urias
Chamberlain, Franklin Horner
Beall, Joseph Layman, P. M.
Christopher, Gus
Beals, Charles Clinton
Church, George Emory, P. M.
Belfi.ls, Ernest Kreichbaum
Benas, Isaac
Coddington, Oliver ,C linton
Benas, Morris
Coffman, John W.
Collins, Alfred Scott
Berry, Tom Jones
Collins, James Darwin
Beveridge, George Paxton
Colson, Benjamin Young
Bibbero, Sam
Connelly, Frank Henry
Bodwell, Samuel Procter
Cooley, Menzo Wesley
Boles, George Marion
Cornforth, Charles Henry
Bowdish, Percival
Cosgrave, George, P. M.
Bowie, Albert

Harris, Milus King
!Jtonkite, Bert E.
Harris, Rollin Romney
IJrlesman, Joseph E.
Harris, Walter
Cunningham, Joe Williams
Harris, William John
Cutten, Charles Robert
Harrold, Thomas Richard .
Davison, William
Hart, Alvin Curran
l>eal, John Harmer Smith
Dellrnan, Ernest
Hart, Leon
Dennett, William Bibb
Hatfield, George Anderson
l>ressell, John Christopher
Hays, Oliver Thomas
Heiskell, William .K.
Detoy, Chai:les L.
Doyle, Ollein Burton
Henry, John Samuei
Dunn, Thomas
Henton, David Cole
Dunn, Torn ~\)ntana
Herrington, Herbert Marion
Dunn, William Francis
Higgins, Frank
Eberhart, Clyde George
Hinch, William Sproule
l~ckland, Charles Maurice
Hinds, Herman Jacob
Edgecomb, Clarence Albert
Hinsberger, Jacob
'Erlwards, Clarence William, P. M. Hixson, Joseph Foster
Edwards, Edward Darnell, P. M.
Hoffman, Allen F.
l!:gan, .James Henry
Hogue, Lassen Elwin
f':instein, Berton
Hogue, Samuel Lassen
Elliott, George
Holland, William Bismark
Emmons, Irving W.
Hollenbeck, James H.
Enloe, Henry Enoch
Homan, Frank Andrew
Ewing, David Shelby
Hopkins, Ethan Littler
Fry, Edwin Claude
Hughes, Thoiw.s Edwin
Cla r<lner, William Clifton
Hutchinson, Charles Caswell
Gilbert, Julius Langdon
Ingram, · Charles Henry
Inns, Ernest Frank
Goddard, Henry Albert
Goggin, Richaril DeLacy
.Jansen, Alexander Segurd
Goldstein, Alex.
Johnson, George L.
.Tohnson, Ramus Bartholomew
Goodman, Solomon Bearline
Graff, Hans, P. M.
Johnson, Samuel Walter
Gray, Lee Lincoln
.Johnson, William Mallory
Grunig, Charles
Johnston, Harry Mumford
Gunde11inger, Emil
Jones, George Wallace
Gundel1inger, Leopold
Jones, Oscar Knox"
Hague, Benjamin Murrell
Jorgenson, Niel
Hague, Berry Madison, .Jr., P. M. Kafton, Alexander Raymond
Hall, Roy
Kerney, Aden G.
H ammond, Thomas Jefferson, · P. M.Kieldsen, James Nelson
Hanner, .John William
Kirkman, William Thomas
Hanson, Harvey Stickney
Kittrell, Erroll Clyde
Hanson, William George
· Kittrell, William Jos~ph
25

385

386 .

Kohler, George Mathia•
Lang, Jam es Albert
Lane, William Samuel, P. M.
Lamkin, J. S.
Leplat, Gustave
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Levy, Herman, P. M.
Levy, Leon
Levy, Sigmund
Lisenby, Carl Augustus
Longacre, John Richartl
Lowe, Camille Denton
Lurie, Harry
Lyman, Frank
Lynch, Thomas Halpin
Lynch, William
Lynn, Theo. Ayers
Machen, William Wallace
Manheim, Emil Edward
Manheim, Gustave Adolph
Madsen, Theo.
Manuel, Louis
Marks, Christopher D.
Marks, George
Marshall, Hampton Othello
Marshall, William Carey
Martin, 811.muel
Mattingly, John Andrew, P. M.
Maupin, James Lawrellce·
May, Francis John
May, Richard Elwin
McClurg, James A., Sr.
McDonald, James Bruce
McHugh, Matthias P.
McKinnon, Elbert Dwight
McKittrick, Arthur William
Mcindoo, Ivan Carter
McLane, Charles Lowry, P. M.
Mead, Jesse Rector
Mellen, Thomas Eugene
Metzler, Brenton Jarvis
Miller, Charleii Herman
Mitchell, Dean Clark
Mitchell, Fred
Mitchell, James Stephens

ROSTER
Monroe, George Hays, P, M.
Moorhead, Edmond Second
'Morris, Henry
Muldary, Richard Morgan
Mulholland, Robert Smith
Murray, Jahn William
Musselman, Albert E.
Myer, Isaac
Neal, John
Neal, John Wesley
Neeley, Herbert Wm.
North, John Wilson
Obbath, Izso
Olney, Albert Downing
Olney, Albert Clyde ·
Olufs, Oluf Bernard
0 'Neal, Charles
Packwood, Leland Raymond
Palen, Byon Carlysle
Palmer, Arthur Henry Gordon
Pasch, Robert
Patch, George
Payne, Le Roy
Peachman, Ferdinand
Peterson, Christian
Peterson, Nathaniel Houston
Peterson, ·William Harrison
Pollard, Oliver Lee
Porter, William T.
Poulsen, Thomas Hansen
Powell, Arthur L.
Pugh, John M., P. M.
Puleston, William Henry
Radin, Henry
Radley, Thomas Henry
Ralston, Rupert Robert
Redden, Silas Henry
Reborn, Frank
Reno, Frederick Rensselaer
Reynolds, Harry W.
Rhodes, Johnson Guy
Riege, Charles Henry
Robbe, David Harry
Robinson, William Harrison Jackaoa
Rogers, Harry Louis

ROSTER
Roessler, Frederic Martin
Hoss, John Henry
Rudy, Henry Vernon
Sahm, Henry
Samelson, Samuel J oaeph
Samuel, Lawrence
Schmidt, Carl Wilhelm
Seadler, James
Selling, Christian Hansen
Sewell, Walter John
Shannoll, Albert Sidney. J.
Shaper.a , Joseph
Sherman, Walter Nathan
Shields, Adolphus James
Shoemaker, Walter
Shoobert, Charles Warren S.
Short, Frank liamilton
Simpson, Timothy William
Sloan, William Burtis
Smith, Anson Burlinaame, P. M.
8mith, Artlie Lee, P. M.
Smith, Christine Hansen
Smith, Eugene Robinette
Smith, Gary Reuben
Smith, George Sp1mc4!r
Smith, George Washingtoii
Smi th, Leslie Smiley
Smith, Victor Raymond
Snow, Alva Edson
Solomon, Louis
Sprouse, ·Jasper Newton
Stephens, Lewis Oliver, P. M.
Stuart, Richard I., P. M.
Stone, Benjamin Franklin
Stone, Marcus Aiken Victor
Story, Walter Fulmer
Sutter. William Henry
Swartz, Alexander Culberson

Sweeney, Albert Hamlet
Taylor, George Colvin
Taylor, James
T~ylor, Paul Che8tor
'l'egeler, Frederick William
'l'hornas, Montgomery
Thompson, Oliver McGrady
Thorwaldson, Horace
Tombs, Samuel Bell, P . M.
'1'<1111•, William Elsworth
Trowbridge, Dwight Howe
Tunzi, Norberto
'furner, George Washington
Vanderlip, Frederic Douglaa·
Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
Wa,qe, Lincoln
Walker, Ben Randall
Walker, John Robert
Warner, Albert Owen
Warrington, Thomas Henry
Watkins, Joseph Spinney
Webster, Edwin Erwin
Webster, James Alfred
WEiUs, Georie ,John
W411pley, William Lang
Whitlow, Victor Le Roy
Whitney, Walter
Whitney, Willi11m Joel
Wilkinso11, llerbert Edwin
Willis, Glenn Trowbridge
Winne, Douglas Thomas
Wilson, Charles William
Wolcott, Edwin T.
Woodward, Oscar J.
Wrightson, John Mowell
Zibbell, ,fomes W.
Zener, Stephen Olin

WITHDRAWN:
Morris, John Knox

Towzey, William John
W itherington, John William

8~7

~312

ROSTER ·

ROSTER

388

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMEN'r OF DUES:
Hayden, Edward Martin
Deal, John Harmer Smith
Eley, Mills

DIED:
Smith, Samuel Nathaniel

ALTURAS LODGE, No. 248.
Alturas, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

Charfes Sherman Baldwin, ChaP,lain,
Charles Lee Brown, Master,
Ralph James Laird, Sen. Deacon,
Alturas, Cal.
William Lott Keene, Sen. Warden, John Randal Ballard, Junior Deacon,
Luke Robinson Yates, Jun. Warden, William Evans Armstrong, Marshal,
Ernest Chappell Bonner, Treasurer, William Wilson Ahl, Steward,
Arthur Lovell Ingraham, Steward,
Isaac Lauer, Secretary,
Elmer Elsworth Bush, Tyler.
Alturas, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Denson, Thomas L., P. M.
Althof, Lansing W.
Duke, Geo. A. ·
Armstrong, William Evans, P. M.
Fleming, Henry Albert
Baldwin, Charles Sherman, P. M.
Gaustad, Rasmus Oliver
Ballard, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Harrow, Jefferson Fay
Ballard, James Thornhill
Huffman, Fred H armon
Ballard, .John Randal
Hunter, Thomas Percival
Ballard, Simeon Theo., P. M.
.Jackson, Clifford Norris
Ballard, Thorn Hill
Keene, William Lott
Barke.r , Harry Earl
King, Albert A vis
Baty, Samuel E.
Knowlton, Benjamin Franklin
Bayley, Alden Spooner
l.1aird, James Ralph
Bonner, Ernest Chappell, P. M.
Laird, Reuel Alfred, P. M.
Bonner, John Todd, P. M.
Lauer, Benjamin
Boudreau, Adolphus Conrad
Lauer, Isaac
Brasher, Robert Williams
Lauer, Marx
Brown, Charles Lee
Lauer, Arthur
Bush, Elmer Ellsworth
McDonald, Henry A.
Caddel, Elijah Daniel
McDowell, Luther Grant, P. M.
Caldwell, John Vincent
Methvin, Dorr
Collier, James J.
Morgan, Charles Poe
C~nnon, John Peyton
Ogle, Elvin Fulton
Coppedge, Walter Edwin
Oliver, "Charles Martin
Cozzens, William Lfoyd

Owens, John Franklin
11epperdine, Silas Washington
Pineo, Austin Webster
Kachford, Christopher Edwin
Bachford, John Charles, P. M.
Baker, John Edward
Rold, David
Hire, David Lorenzo
Russill, Richard Madison
Salisbury, William A., P. M.

389

Smith, Alex. Elsie
Smith, Artogrel Cisero
Spargur, Charles Goodwin
Spicer, Albert Fulmer
Stewart, Joseph Henry
Stile, John
Tambling, Robert Allan
Warner, Charles Sloan
Watkins, Charles Thomas
Yates, Luke Rubinson

-:-06

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, Chandler Holton
DIED:

Davis, Madison

ADIN LODGE, No.

250.

Adin, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER.S:
Clinton Joseph Fulcher, Chaplain,
Paul Douglas Henderson, Master,
Adin, Cal.
Buffington Albert Chace, Sen. D.,
Charles Matthias Tinsman, Sen. W., James Albert Clark, Jun. Deacon,
!Tomer LeRoy Brown, Jun. Warden, Richard Biddle Clark, Marshal,
Ccorge Horace Knight, Treasurer, Morris Blaske, Steward,
Edwin Stapton Pickard, Secretary, Ernest Gilman Folsom, Steward,
Eisley Wyman Groves, Tyler.
Adin, Cal.
:'v1EMR8R.S:

Alexander, P. T.
Ball, Edward Porteus
Braden, Lincoln
Blaske, Morris
Brown, Charles Monroe
Brown, Claude Raymond, P. M.
Brown, Clyde Earl
Brown, Homer LeRoy
Chase, Buffington Albert
Childs, Benjamin Ne·e ley
Clark, 'James Albert ·
Clark, Richard Biddle, P. M.
Conley, Robert H~nry

Craven, Wa.lter Sidney
Folsom, Ernest Gilman
Ford, Emery Walter
Fruits, John Sebastian, P. M.
Fulcher, Clinton .Joseph
Geieendorfer, Henry Albert
Groves, Eisley Wiman
Harrell, James Porter Grove
Henderson,. .Paul Duglas
Holl, James Hartwell . ,
Kesselring, Francis M . .
Knight, George Horace, P . M.
Kre11ge, George Amador

ROSTBR

390
Leventon, Hiram Lavern
Leventon, Robert Edward
Lorenzen, Peter
McArthur, Rodrick
McArthur, Scott
Packwood, Warren Dale, P. M.
Parrish, Frank Pierce
Philliber, Byron Waldon
Pickard, Ed'\Vin Stanton, P. M.
Preston, Edmund Benjamin

Rice, Thomas Jefferson
Roberts, Fred H.
Sheppard, Sum1nerfield Dean
Squires, Atirlrew Jackson
Tinsman, Charles :Mathias
Tocher, William
Traugh, Arthur Mathias, P. M.
Walker, George Roseberry, P. M.
. Wilson, Ezra Mortoti, P. M.
Wilson, Thomae Walter

Wl'l'Hl:>RA WN:
Davie, John Lassen

ROSTER

Quinville, John Edmund
Quinville, William James
Randolph, Franklin M.
Reading, Alfred Gould, P. M.
Reading, George McLellan
Reading, William Francis

391

Schweiger, Francis Paul
Sturgeon, Andrew Graham
Sturgeon, John Henry
'.rhompson, William Henry, P. M .
Turley, William
Weitfle, Joseph King
-42

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Smith, Francis Marion

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.
Madison, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

BODIE LODGE, No. 252.

OFFICERS:

Bodie, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

Ccorge Rogers Hurlbut, Master,
James Christopher Gose, Chaplain,
Madison, Cal.
John George Fredericks, Sen. Deac.,
Ccorge Washittgton Gray, Sen. W., Sidney Layfette Murray, Jun. Deac.,
Cieorge Thomas Crone, Jun. Warden, Ernest Christian Bauer, Marshal,
Francis Marion Strickland, Treas., Arthur Scott, Steward,
1,nuis Pfannstiehl, Secretary,
Harry Lawrence Fredericks Steward
Madison, Cal.
William Joseph Gray, T y/e;
'

OFFICERS:

John Edward Quinville, Master,
Frank C. Quinville, Chaplain,
Bodie, Cal.
William Henry Thompson, Sen. D.,
Andrew Graham Sturgeon, Sen. W., William Nathan Chatfield, fuw. D.,
John Henry Sturg4oh, Jun. Ward., Cecil Bertrand Burkham, Marshal,
James Stuart Cain, Trea1nrrr,
Harvey Haydin Boone, Steward,
William Jordan Ctawford, Secretary, John J. McKenzie, Stewar,,
Bodie, Cal.
Frank M. Randolph, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bawden, John Curtiss
.Teffery, John
Boone, Harvey Hayden, P. M.
Kelly, John Nelson
Kieffer, Jacob
Boyd, Nathaniel W., .P. :M.
Kieke!, Frederick Charles
Burkham, Cecil Bertrand
Landers, William Herbert
Cain, James Stewatt
Langrell, Joseph Mitchell
Chatfield, William Nathan
Corde, Francis Joseph
McAlpine, John
Crawford, William Jordatt, P. M.
McCaghrani Hugh, P. M.
Davidson, Hugh Robinson
McKenzie, John Johnt!on
Davis, Thomas Lil1'ellytl.
Morandi, Gregoq
Parr, Edward William
Fitzpatrick, GMt~ Kontty, P. M.
Graham, Archie
Parr, John Foreet
Hawks, James A'tlgustu11
Pierce, Richard Thomas
Pryor, Johil
Heath, W11.raiGk Ptomt
Quinville. Ji'rank Eantund, P. M.
J ackson, Fredetick Elof

MEMBERS:
Are.her, Edward Hatton
Haines, Henry
Bnrker, Isaac Simpson
Hall, Thomas, P. M.
Bauer, Ernest Christian, P. M.
Hurlbut, George Bogen, P. M.
Craig, J ohn Milton
Johnson, Henry Boneparte
Craig, Thornton
Kennedy, John, P. M.
Cole, Francis
Levy, Ellis Louis
Davisson, Benj. Franklin, Jr.
I.evy, Wolf
Eckhardt, Carl Ale.r.
Nieman, Robert Lee
Fredericks, Harry Lawrence
Pfannstlehl, Louis
Fredericks, John George, P. M.
Scoggins, Clarence Noah
Galvin, Harry Albert
Scott, Arthur
Galvin, Henry
Silberstein, Charles A. A.
Grim, William Everett
Stephens, John Lucas
Gose, James Christopher
Strickland, Francie Marion, P. M.
llray, George Washington
Tandy, George
Orey, William Joseph
Tandy, George Waehington -142

.

WITHDRAWN:
Hurlbut, Daniel Bradley

. ~'

392

ROSTER

READING LODGE, No. 254.
Redding, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Rudolph Andrews Saeltzer, Master,
Redding, Cal.
Benjamin Franklin Saylor, Sen. W.,
Harry Edgar Thompson, Jun. Ward.,
Arthur Mason Dean, Treas.,
Charles Eugene Brown, Secretary,
Redding, Cal.
.MEMBERS:
Ashcraft, Aldis Isaac, P. M.
Dittmar, Carl Frederick
Baer, Munroe
Do browsky, Frank Reed
Bainbridge, Eugene Blackburn
Donley, Charles Edwin
Bedford, Homer Peter
Donley, William Albert
Bishop, Herbert Hall
Downing, Isaac Hayden
Blodgett, William Ora, P. M.
Dozier, Earnest
Brackins, Samuel Elbert
Dustin, Fred Fay
Braun, Charles Alex.
Eaton, Byron Gilbert
Breslauer, Louis
Eaton, James Parley
Bretherton, Wallace Bruno
Egilbert, William Alfred D.
Brincard, James Elroy
Fisher, Fabian
l!'itzgerald, McCoy
Brown, Charles Eugene, P. M.
Brown, Frank Leroy
Fr~ zer, Hiram Hardy
Brown, Henry Warren
Gavey, Walter
Brown, Robert Anthony
Glaazer, James Joseph
Bush, George William, P. M.
•Glaszer, Peter
Bush, Harry Edward
Glover, Harry Ward
Campbell, William Mott, P. M.
Gregg, Cephus Lewis
Qrodin, Irvin Morris
Carson, George Campbell
Chenoweth, Orr M.
Hamilton, James Brodie, B. M.
Collins, Richard Emmet
Hampton, Delano Wash.
Comstock, James Warren
Hampton, Floyd Young
Hansen, James Dudley
Corbiere, Charles Colfax, P. M.
Crews, Philip Paton
Harvey, Elson Wright
Hays, James Calvin
Dean, Arthur Mason, P. M.
Dean, George Edward
Hill, Henry Gladstone, P. M.
DeLashmutt, George Wiley
. Hill, William Glover
Dennis, Leslie Mosley
Hoffmaster, Charles Augustus
Depue, Carl Harmon
Holt, James Chesley

ROSTER
Houston, Thomas James
Hunter, Joseph Hammond
Herron, Mathew Wilkes
Hudson, William Atherton
Hoyle, James Hansen
Iverson, William Christopher
Jacobson, Charles
.Tcffrey, William
Jewett, George Parish
Johnson, Israel Joseph, P. M.
Kaveney, John
Kite, Walter Allen
La Bonte, Francis Xavier
Lambson, Giles Hammon
Lawry, Olin Joseph
Ledgerwood, LeRoy
Lefebvre, Joseph Jalma
J,orenzen, Lewis Norman
Lowdon, George Brownlee
Lowdon, John Richard, P. M.
Marshall, Amos Hiram
Maxwell, Fred Brooks
McCarty, John LaFayette
McCool, Elmer Francis
life.Donald, Luke
McNabb, William
McVay, Anson Bidwell
Merrill, Abbott
Milburn, Warren Palmer
Moody,.He1bert Lyle
Murray1 George James
Nichols, John Frank
Nie<lecker, Charles Edward
Nordyke, Byron Abram, P . M.
Nordyke, Felix Lysancler
Nourse, Charles Freeman
Orr, John Brown
Parker, Ben Banes
Pehrson, Alfred Ferdinand
Petch, Llewellyn George
Plymire, Fred A.
Ponder, Wilson Churchill, P. M.
Potts, William Lambert
Primm, Franklin Pierce, P. M. ·
Rankin, William Pierce

393

Rn,thbun, Donald W.
Rathbun, Louis Brooks
Reading, Robert Lee
Reid, Daniel Gerrard
Reynolds, John Edward
Rhom, J. Thornton
Ross, John
Rote, James Albert
Rutherford, John, Jr.
Saeltzer, Dudley Victor
Haeltzer, Hn<lolph Andrew, P. M.
Saeltzer, Rudolph Moritz
Sallee, Harvey James
Sanders, Edward
Sandholdt, John Peter
Sandry, Samuel
Saylor, Benjamin Franklin
Schoonover, James William
Sechrist, George Howard, P. M.
See<l, Alfred
Rhuffleton, Hugh JI all, Jr.
Smith, Clyde Wade
Smith, Richard Sidney
Smith, Samuel Gaston, P. M.
Smith, Thomas Burton, P. M.
Smithson, James Stenton
Soderstron, Francis Herald
Southern, Elzy Thomas
Souza, Antonio Furtado, Jr., P. M.
Stable, Ferdinand
Stillson, Leonard Legrand
Stokes, Robert Thomas
Sutliff', Horace Aram
Stone, Sidney Marvin
Swasey, Frank Marshall, P. M.
Swedberg, Eric
Tucker, Arthur Henry
Tillotson, Willard Denton
Thomas, Morgan David ·
Thompson, Charles Francis
Thompson, Harry Edgar
Todd, Elmer E.
Van Valer, Claude Oscar
Walker, Albert Edward
Wallace, Philip Bowers

394

ROSTER

ROS'rER

Weber, Philip Henry
Wells, Harry
Wheeler, William Walter
White, Sherman Tecumshe
Wilder, Charles Thornton
Wilson, .Alva A.

Witherow, John
Witherow, . William Hellery
Woll, Joseph
Wood, William Augustus
Wright, James Dow
_Zwiebel, Charle!!, P. M.

-169

SUSPENDJ<JD FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Randall, Charles Alfred

DIED:
Trewartha, William

WELCOME LODGE, No. 255.
Lemoore, ~ngs County.
Stated Meeting&, .first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS :

Marcus C. Carter, Master, .
Charles S?encer Winans, Chap.,
Lemoore1 Cal.
Albert Luther McKay, Stn.' Deac.,
Charles Roy Blakeley, Sen. WtJrd., Walter Clare·nce Payne, Jun. D·e at./
.Edward Herbert Byron, Jun. Ward., John Henry Siegfried, Marshal,
Gilbert Edwards Shore, Trea.nirer, Willard Merril Wilson, Stetv<Jtd,
Julius Henderson Fo.1c, S etretary, Albert Amenia Brown, Stew<lrd,
Lemoore, Cal.
John Benton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barker1 Albert Milton
Benton, John
Berry, George
Berry, :Napoleon
Blakely, Charles Roy
Brown, Albert Armenia
Brown, Guy Elmer
Brown, Seymore Floyd
Buchanan, William J'J.eteher
Buckner, Andrew Brown
Buckner, WilUam Rollo
Byron, EdW"ard Herbllrt
Byron, William Pete
Bryans, Wm. Jennings
Carter, Marcue C., P. :M.
Chinn, Green Bedford
Cross, Roy Marion

395

Paulding, William Barnett
Heidorn, John Henry E. W.
Payne, Walter Clarence
IIewitt, Newton Benedict
Richmond, James Morgan
,Jennings, Frederick
Ritchie, Williatrt Rufue
Keller, Charles William
Sanborn, Leavitt Riley
Knapp, Adolphus Eugene
Sanborn,
William Hotace, P. M.
Kreyenhagen, Emil
Schwartz, Gottlob ·
Kurtz, John Leopold
Schwa rtz, Jacob Patterson, P. M.
Lane, Oliver Perry
Shore, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
Latham, Charles
Shore,
Richard Edward, P. M.
MacDonald, Alex. Roderick
Siegfried, John Henry, P. M.
Marriott, Joseph
Sweetland, :Byron Kear
Martin, ChariM Frank
Tafte, Sanders E.
McCormack, Jamel! A.
McCrady, William Winter, P. M. Taylor, Lon Jonas
Taylor, Noah Dahlel
McGlashan, Alexander
'l'ilton, Geo. Luther
McGlashan, John Henry, P. M.
Tobin, John Coffman
McKay, Albert Luther
Vanderdoe11, Alexis Stephen
McLaughlin, Stiles Ambrose
Vincent, Ferdinand M .
Merrill, Walter
Weems, Harry Lero1
Momson, Henry
Williams, John W.
Murphy, Richard Auguetine
Wilson, Willard Merrill
Nidiffer, David Perkins
Woodgatee, Harry Vailher, P. M.
Ni.elsen, Andrea Jorgen
Young, Samuel
-82
Odale, John ,Jefferson, P. M.
DIED:
Walker, Frank Jacob

...

Curtis, Arthur Bibbings
Dallas, Roderick William
Dickie, William Tupper
Dingley, Willard Ernest, P. M.
Drummond, Jamee, Alexande·r W.
Ecclei;) Robert Kerr
Evans, Harry Ward
Ellsworth, Elmer Ellsworth
Ewing, Claude Lee
Fenner, Charles Jason
Fox, Julius Hendll'sott, P. M.
Fox, Lynn Lee
Gaunt, Elmer Boon
Gilro7, Launcelott
Gorden, George
Hancoek, Benjamin Harrieon
Hays, William Price

LODI LODGE No. 256.
Lodi, l!lan Joa.quin County.
Stated Meetinits, Thureclay· of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFl'IOERS:

William Jacob Thomayet, Cha{Jloln,
E dward Henry Po~. Mastel',
Car.win Douglas White, Sen. D.,
Lodi, Cal.
Demas Allen P ope, full. Dtucon,
J oseph K. Newfielcl, Sett . Ward.,
J ohn Silas Montgomery, Mrtrs/ial,
Leslie Irvine Hause, ! u;t. Ward.,
J ohn Millard Blodgett, Trraauref, Harry ltverl!tt Wright, Steward,
John Perrott, Sttward,
George W. LeMoitl, Secretary,
Calvltt Allen Bright, Tyler.
u;di, Ca.I.
MEMBERS:
Barbour, Nathan Roswell, P. M.
Allen, Wilbur Sabin
Barnes, Ebenezer Starr
Anderson, Augustus Samuel
Bawden, Thomas Leslie
Angier, Melbourne Edward
Bauer, Adolph, P. M.
Ayers, Melber l!'ortist

396

ROSTER

Beckman, Henry Christopher
Bewley, John Clinton
Black, Charles A.
Blaisdell, Charles Edward
Blakely, John Frederick, P. M.
Blodgett, John Millard, P. M.
Blodgett, Walter Scott
Bowen, James A.
Bright, Calvin Allen
Brown, William Clifford
Brum!, Henry Jesse
Burchard, Edward Adelbert, P. M.
Buchenau, George William
Buck, Charles Henry
Cary, Edward Colfax
Cary, Fred Grant
Chrisman, Frank
Churchman, Benjamin Conway
Clark, Harvey Smith
Clark, Perry Orman
Clark, William Sibley
Clements, John Henry
Clifford, Claude Linley
Cogswell, Nathaniel Merrill
Colman, Frederick William
Cooper, Joe E.
Uorson, Charles 1Iartwell, P. M.
Craig, Howard Miller, P. M.
Creason, William M.
Davis, Emory Lewis
De Force, Byron Andrew
DelValle, Joseph
Dickey, Hugh Leavitt
Doering, Gottlieb
Dustin, Charles Roscoe
Eaton, Edgar Jay
Elder, Isaac Arthur
Eddleman, Ambus Ozro, P. M.
Ellis, Henry Faulkner
·
Ferdun, Charles Marshman, P. M.
Ferdun, Ernest Eugene
Ferguson, John Charlesworth
Follendorf, Max
Foster, George Albert
Friedberger, Alex. Valentine, P. M.

ROSTER

Friedberger, Joseph
Friedberger, Leo
.l!'roehnert, Max John
Galloway, John H.
Garretson, George R.
Gillette, Ralph Waldo
Gillingham, Samuel A.
Griswold, Charles A.
Grosshauser, Frank
Gum, Adelbert Keller
Hale, Frank Orlando
Hamilton, Arthur Garfie~d
Hamilton, George Hayes
Harris, Samuel Milton
Hause, Leslie Irvine
Hawkins, Daniel Zachariah, P. M.
Henning, Frank Albert, P. M.
High, James Hamlin ·
Hill, George Washington
Hines, Lloyd B.
Hogan, Eugene Sue
Hogan, George
Hopkins, James Everett
Hughes, William T.
lr~y, Frank F.
Jackson, Bernard
Keagle, George Andrew, P. M.
Kreeger, Virgil E.
Leffler, William Henry
LeMc;>in, George Worley, P. M.
Lillie, Charles Franklin
Lillie, John Harry
Lucas, Albert Curtin
Magee, Stillman Look
Maginnis, John Spure
Martin, Robert William, P. M.
Mason, Louis T.
McLellan, William Cyril
McClure, Richard Benton
McKenzie, Hugh Alexander
Micheelsen, Fritz
Montgomery, John, Silas, P. M.
Morse, Edward Elliott
Mowry, Sherman Wesley
Nelson, James Everett .

..

Nelson, Svend Christian
Newfield, Joseph K.
Newfield, M\lrcus
Newfield, Melville Warren
Norton, Charles Willis, P. M.
Pearson, Benjamin Franklin
Perrott, John, Jr.
Pope, Demas Allen
Pope, Edward Henry
Poppe, Frank
Raines, Thomas John
Rector, Charles H.
Rothwell, John Henry
• Schu, Robert Alexander
Scott, John Wesley
Scott, Thomas Arthur
Segsworth, Frederick
Seigel, William Frederick
Shidy, Milton Winfield
Smith, Horace Manning
Smith, Dempsey Dilworth
Spooner, William Alden, P. M.
Springer, William Alexander
Stannard, Henry Bert
Steacy, Edwin George

397

Steele, George Martin
Stein, John Albert
Swain, George
1'homayer, William Jacob, P. M.
Thompson, Wilson Henry
Tindell, Pleasant Hay, P. M.
Villinger, Charles Lucian
Wauchope, Thomas Frank
W eiblen, Frank
Weinert, Albert John
Welch, Chester Bascom
Welch, Edwin Forrest
Welch, Hilliard Elihu, P. M.
Westfall, Eugene M.
Westlake, William Nelson
White, Corwin Douglas
Whittaker, David Newton
Whittaker, Marion Wm.
Williams, William Thomas
Willms, John Henry
Wooten, Joseph Bivenil
Wright, Edgar B.
Wright, Harl"y Everett
Zimmerman, Sam Herman

Bryant, .Tames Rey
Valle, .Jacob Dell

WITHDRAWN:
Snyder, Fred Clifton
Snyder, Frank Emerson

Axtell, Sam Beach

EXPELLED: ·
Sterling, John Calhoun
DIED :
Sanborn, Horatio Wallace

-147

398

ROSTER

ROSTER

PENRHYN LODGE, No. 258.
Pelll'fll, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Thursda.y of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFl'ICERS :
Elmer Gorden Crofts, Master,
William Archibald, Chaplaill,
Penryn, Cal.
Frank Elwin Small, Senior Dea•on,
Clark Vivian Freed, Sr.h. Warden, Fred'k Isedore Adge, Jmi. Dea~on,
Porter Lee Taylor, Junior Warden, Owen Rowland Owens, Mars/10/,
William Ervin Lininger, Treasurer, Herbert B. Dobas, Steward,
George Carl Boller, Secretary,
Pat Dunn, Steward,
Loomis, Cal.
Antone Fereva, Tyfor.

MEMBERS:
Adge, Frederick Isadore
Hughes, David Griffith
Adge, Isidore W.
Katzenstein, Edn11n1d
Archibald, Edward
Kayo, Frederic-k ;Eugene
Archibald, William
Kayo, Hobert, P. M.
.,
Barrett, Marquis de Lafayette
Kayo, Willfo.m
Bickford, Joseph Arthur
Ketchum, Henry · Cl11rk
Bickford, Warren Scott
Laird, Samuel Olark
Boller, George Carl, P. M.
Lavere, Clifton Gillman
Boller, Warren Bigforth
Law, Albert
Brainard, Charles Grayson
Lininger, Wm. Ervin, P. M .
Brooke, William Ansyl
Logan, Robert Adelbert
Butler, Harry Everett
Martin, Charles, P. M.
Carlson, Charles
Mason, Frederick Julian
Crofts, Elmer Gordon
Misley, Thomas Brazil
Cullen, Charles Wesley
Miles, Frederick Charles, P. M.
Day, Samuel Chester
Naramore, Ralph Edward
Dillree, R.ay Evan&
Owen, David Robert
Dobas, Herbert B.
Owens, Owen Rowland
Eckhardt, Albert Dostal
Packwood, Jpmes Albert
Eckhardt, Earnest Frank
Pendleton, George H.
F.lliott, ,Tames Dennis
Phillips, James P. Medland, P. M.
Fcreva, Antone, P. M.
Plank, Willard J.
Fereva, Leon Carl
Rackliffe, Pitt Bartlett
Files, John William
Rippey, Eumund Lee
Ford, Robert Wharton
Roberts, David All,lln
Freed, Clark- Vivian
Robertson, Edgar Simpson
Gibson, Frederick James
Schnabel, Carl Kenneth
Hazleton, Roland J.
Scroggs, Chester Alexander
Howell, Harry Burton
Shepherd, Benjamin Walker

Skinner, Orville Jay
Small, Frank Elwin, P. M.
Smith, Arthur Edward Hughes
Smith, Mortimer Leggett
Spratt, Newton Glaacoe
Taylor, Harry Leonard
Taylor, Howard Buford
Taylor, Porter Lee
Schmitt, John Jacob

399

Torrence, Charles
Tudsbury, William Holder
Tupper, Frank
Turner, Frederick William
Wallace, John
Worth, Elmer Jason
Worth, Fred 'k Carpenter
Wilder, Abbott Pierson

WITHDRAWN:
Stone, Henry Howard

DIED:
Cushing, John Henry
Tippins, William Wheeler
Manley, John Morely Everett

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.
Riverside, Riverside County.
Stated M~etini•, :first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Percy Robeson, Master,
William Crook Clatworthy, Chaplain, .
524 E. Eighth St., Riverside, Cal. Adam Heber Winder, Sen. Deacon,
Leonard Albert Cowles, Sen. W ard., Charles Orville Reid, Junior D1ocon,
Oroville Powell Sanders, Jun. W ard., John T . Jarvis, Marshal,
Menno S. Bowman, TreaJurer,
Charles Henry Daum, Steward,
Robert Preston Cundiff, Secretary, William Frederick Thomas, Steward,
342 Lime St., Riverside, Cal.
Philip Andrew Gunsolus, Ty/tr.
MEMBERS:
Alguire, Myron
Alguire, Urban
Allcock, Henry Edwin
Allen, Benjamin Franklin
Allum, Ralph Loyd
Amstulz, John William
Angell, Andrew H.
Avey, William Albert
Babcock, John W.
Banks, Walter Charlton
Barker, Charle1 Omer
Barker, Thomas .Jefferson
Barton, Clareiice Walter
Bates, :\fichael 'iYnshington

~auman, John

Henry
Bayley, Charles Bowdoin, P. M.
Bayley, John G., P. M.
Beamer, Jacob Eden
Bedford, Aaron
Benshoof, Chester Williani
Benton, Herbert Elmon
Bittinger, Georgl! E.
Boalich, Edwin A.
Boggs, Augustus Wash.
Bowman, Menno El., P. M.
Boyd, J. Calvj.~
Bray, William Frederic~, P. M.
Briggs, Fre1forick Alden

400

ROSTER

Brouse, Charles Emery H.
Brownscomb, Thomas Fairchild
Brown,' Alva Thurlow
·
Brown, Arthur Leon
Brown, Lyman VanWinkle
Brundige, Louis A.
Buehler, Richard M.
Buckley, Henry Demetrius
Burden, Harry Lee
Burgess, Clayson Sylvester
Caldwell, Albert Augustine
Uampbell, Albert Park
Campbell, Donald Wm.
Carpenter, James Collier
Carr, William Wallace
Carrier, Frederick L.
Castleman, John Saxton
Castleman, Pomber Stearns
Castleman, Stanley Joseph, P. M.
Cell, Charles Werty
Cerveau, Alexander
Chamblin, Wilber Newton, P. M.
Chapman, Charles William
Chase, J. Warren
Christern, Abraham Chapman
Chl'istianson, Neales Peter
Clancy, William Bernard, P. M . .
Clark, Arthur B.
Clark, John Edward
Clark, Walter David
Clatworthy, William Crook
Cobb, Ralph Monroe
Cooper, James Fenncmore
Corcoran, William H.
Cornwell, Jos. Wm.
Cover, Thomas Mortimer
Covey, Frank Richard
Covey, Jules Harlan
Cowles, Leonard Albert ·
Cox, John Henry Dutcher
Crider, Amos James
Crimmins, John T.
Cundifl', Robert Preston
Cunningham, Geo. Dimock, P . M.
Cuttle, Francis

Dalrymple, John R.
Daniels, Milton J.
Darling, Lorenzo Franklin, P. M.
Daughters, John James
·
Daum, Charles Henry
Davidson, William Creighton
Davis, Frank Clark
Davis, George Robert
Delano, Francis Junius
Dewey, Philip Henry
Dicken, Fred Thomas
Dickson, Charles Sanford
Dowler, William Ross
·
Drayton, James Earl, P. M.
Dunbar, Frederick Martin
Dunlap, Horace G.
Durfrey, James Gerald
Elder, Daniel S.
Elliott, James Rutherford
Ellis, A. Ellsworth
Ellis, John Harvey, P . M.
Enderley, Frederick W.
Ernst, Lawrence Lewis
Estudillo, Miguel
Evans, Charles Orrick
Fairchild, Thomas
Farr, William ·
Fish, Charles Dearborn
Fish, John Wallace
Fox, John Porter
Fraser, Hugh Mills
Frazer, Samuel R.
Freeman, Isaac Newton
French, Henry Dearborn, P . M.
Fulmor, Alex. Chope
Gage, William Judson
Gamble, Austin Abraham
Gates, DeRoy Harkness
Gilbert, James
Gill, Lafayette
Gilliland, Hosea Franklin
Gillispie, Clarence Alexander
Gilchriest, James Burrns
Gillick, William Martin
Glenn, Ludwill Gaines

ROSTER
Gray, Charles R .
Oready, George Mnnay
Greaves, James McClellan
Griffith, Thomas R.
Grizzle, Chules <hi.y
Gunderson, Halvor
Gunsolus, Philip Andrew
Hamilton, Charles De C.
Hamilton, Ernest G.
Hamilton, Ralph Alexander
Hammond, Harry Augustus
Ha=ond, Harry Walter, P. M.
Hancock, Claude Perceval
Harger, K. D.
Hathaway, Walter Scott
Hawes, Norman Sunderland
Hayt, William Augustus
Heath, Charles E.
Heath, Frederick Miller
Hebert, Charles Prescott
Hedger, Leonard Weyman
Helmer, William Zeaman
Hennesy, Thomas Milton
Herbert, J esae Ernest
Herkelrath, Frank
Hewett, Theodore Dwight
Hibbard, Hiram Colby
Hibble, William Edward
Hinckley, Samuel Bond, P. M .
Holden, George Philip
Holland, Joseph Howar<l
Holmes, Elmer Wallace·
Hooker, A mos Henry
Horton, Abraham Anderson
Horton, Joseph Robert
Hotchkiss, Stephen Stearns
Howard, Perley WinsE1r
Hudson, Josephus
Huse, Curtis Ferdinand
Irving, David
.Tahn, John Royal
,Jarvis, John T., P. M.
Jarvis, Joseph
.Jefferson, Eugene Hall
26

Jenkins, Robert '11heo.
Johnson, Eugene Christian
Johnsolll, Jay Joel
Johnson, Wm. A.Jothuir
.Tosylyn, Frank King
Keith, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Kelsey, George Hyde, P. M.
Kelsey, James Henry
Kightlinger, Elmer Ellsworth
Kimball, John Stewart
Kirkondall, James L.
Kjellburg, Gunner
Klinefelter, Peter K.
Knight, Lewis A.
Lamar, Richard David
Lewis, Arlington Cyrus
Lightner, Felix
Lippincott, Rosco Delmar
Lock, William :f ohn
Lowell, George Willard
Martin, Achilles
Martin, Hugh Ralph
Maxwell, William
Maynard, Horton Dunbar
McBain, Daniel
McCarty, George Albert
McClure, Daniel Rishler
McClure, Ralph Redman
McDougall, James
McFarland, Chauneey L.
Mcintyre, Hillary A.
Mc.Johnson, Robert E.
MrKay, John D.
McKenney, Joseph Wils<!n
McLaren, Harry Calvin
McLeod, John William
McLeod, Lemuel James
McMahill, William
Melrose, George C.
Merrill, Charles Henry
Miller, Wm. Burritt
Mills, James William
Mills, Henry Nathaniel
Mitchell, Davic1 G.

401

402
Mitchell, Eben Lester
Mitchell, Frederick Bernard
Morrison, Francis Templeton
Moulton, Ernest Smith
Moorman, Orange L.
Morgan, William Augustus
Mumby, Wi:lliam Edward
Murray, Hugh McKenzie
Newman, Gusfaivius Olivio
Newman, Lewis Henry
Nichols, Arthur Doty
Noyse, Frank Albert
Ocheltre·e, Arthur Robinson
Ormiston, Oscar Bishop
Paddock, Job Albert
Paddock, John James
Palmer, Oscar Jacob
Papineau, Ottley
Parker, Ashley Stephens, P. M.
Parkhurst, John
ParRons, Frank ·watson
Payton, William Brnce
Peach, Charles Arthur
Pearson, George Mitchner
Pennington, Charles E.
Pennington, Percy George
Perrine, Charles Oscar
Peter, Frederick
Phelpe, William Wykea
Piddintton, Alfred Alexander
Pilgrim, William Mawer
Polkinghorn, William Henry
Pontius, David Willard
Poore, George Clinton
Prescott, Mervin Ferris
Priestly, Herbert Ingram
Purington, William Ansel
Putnam, Na.than T.
Rayner, Edward
Reed, Benjamin B.
Reid, Charles Orville
Reynolds, Charles Low
Reynolds, Thomas Mills
Rice, Almer L .
Rice, Charles Thomas

ROSTER

ROSTER
Richards, Charles Edgar
Rimell, Philip Geo.
Robeson, Jas. Percy
Robertson, Robert P. ·
Robinson, William Henry
Roblee, Wm. Wallac.e
Rockhold, John Ellsworth
lfoss, George (:.
Rouse, Gaylor .
Russell, Robert William
Russell, William Prior
Russell, Wilson Byron, P. ~·
Russell, Zadoc
Samuelson, William
Sanborn, Kingsbury, P. M.
~
Sanders, Orville Powell
Sanker, Sylvester
Sarles, Lewis Winser
Schaf, Leonard
Schwab, Peter
Sculp, John Peter
Seburn, Thaddeus K.
Severding; John Henry
Shamel, Archibald Dixon
Shedd, Herbert Alex.
Shields, Joseph Edward
Shiels, Charles Montgomery
Simms, John Allen
Small, Henry Kimball
Spoonamore, Morris D.
Stephenson, Albert Elmer
Stone, Philip Casper
Stower, Alex. Campbell
Taylor, Frederick Franklin
Taylor, Zachary A.
Thayer, George Richard
Thomas, William Frederick
Tracy, Thomas
True, William Herbert
Tucker, Edwin Waite
Tuma, Albert Burns
Twogood, Milo Judson
Van Fleet, Mayne L.
Van Pelt, Warren Wiley
Waddingham, Edward Franei11

Wade, Ira D. Sankey
Wagner, Joseph Swaim
Waite, Charles Edgar
Waite, Claude Weld
Walker, ·Charles Arthur
Walther, Arthur S.
Ward, Chas. Henry
Ward, George Franklin
Warren, Geo. Randall
Watkins, Chester Arthur
Way, Ellsworth Henry
Webb, Edward D. Holton, P. M.

403

Wheator, George William
White, Samuel Adams
Whitney, Jno. Samuei L.
Williams, Elmer Ellsworth
· Williams, Willard Franklin
Wilson, Frank Pierce
Wilso·n, Prentice Farrer
Winder, A. Heber
Worthley, Frederick Almon
Young, Cornelius
Younkin, Albert
-31!)

WITHDRAWN:
Humphreys, John Fletcher
Oak, Ralph Lane
Hudson, John Herbert
Stuart, Irvin Dingle
Mason, Dwight Bisco
Turner, John Dodson
Wildes, Samuel Morrison
SUSPENDFJD FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Mattoon, George Warren
Dole, George Hathaway
Gray, Howard Pinkney
Reynolds, George Nicoll

DIED:
Sebring, George Alva
Vosburg, Charles Henry
Vredenburgh, John R.

•Restored during tli e )'ear .

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No.

260

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Metitings, first Monday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
Ilermann 'vVilliam Noethig, Master, John Fletcher Campbell, Sen. Deacon,
James Lafayette Halsted, Jun. Deac.,
816 York Street.
Frank Allston Sw<dn, Sen. Ward., Fred Burrage Wood, Marshal,
Frank Wicks Hosmer, Jun. Warden, Henry Lloyd Green, Steward,
William Parker Filmer, Treasurer, George E. Weaver, Steward,
Hiram Franch Wright (of Starr
I !arry Baehr, Secretary,
King No. 344), Tyler.
1745 Fillmore Street.
Arthur Macdonald Blade, Chaplain,

404

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Boardmar., Wilbur Fisk
Ahlborn, Henry
Bobbs, Arthur Lee
Ahlers, Henry C.
}3olte, Carl Noble
Alexander, Archibald Mcinto1h,
Bone, John Christopher
Alexander, Itarry
Bonney, Charles Sumner
Alexander, William Frederick
Bothe, Luer
Altvater, Edward Louis
Bottomley, Liberty Halstead
Ambrose, Frank Murray
Bourne, John Philip
Anderson, Juline
Bowers, Charles Silvey
Armbrust, Adolph Charles
Boyan, Charles Max
Armstrong, James William
Boyd, Lawrence Herbert
Ascher, Henry Dietrich
Brandt, Louis B.
Asher, Maurice Louis
Auld, Ernest Christian
Branot, Wa1ter Bernard
Aust, Frank William
Broad, Alfred Fry
Austin, Arthur Thomas Craxford
Brobeck, William Irvin
Ayers, Clarence Warwick
Brown, John Fred
Ayers. Herman Charles
Brown, Richard
Ayers, John Clarkson
Browne, Allan Henry
Bacon, Gaston Ernest, P. M.
Browne, Thomas Henry .
Bader, Henry
Bucher, Charles Columban
Baehr, Harry
Buell, William Eugene
Baehr, Walter Harry
Buescher, Arthur Gustave
Balogh, Martin
Buescher, Walter William
Banks, William Edward
Buetow, Frederick Wm. Carl
Barclay, Alex. James
Bunnell, Edwin
Bartlett, Walter Jason Robert
Burich, George
Batkin, Alfred Augustus
Burnley, Alfred
Baum, Simon
Bush, Charles George
Beall, Samuel Josiah
Bush, George Mickle
Beanston, Peter
Cahill, Charles Frederick
Beck, Adolph
Cailleaud, Henry Alex.
Beck, Henry Martin
C'1-ldwt1JI. Forest Beamer
Bell, Arthur Reginald
Campbell, John
Bell, Charles Henry
Campbell, John Fletcher
Belli, William Ciprian
Cannon, William Martin
Belser, Julius Henry
Carpenter, John Lewis
Beretta, Caesar Louis
Chalmers, George Martin
Berson, Maurice Adolph
Chapin, Frank Eugene
Bertrand, Frederic Joseph
Chevalier, Edward Victor
Best, Louis Homer
Childs, Bolton GardMr
Birdsall, Walter Buell
Christman, George
Bia.de, Arthur Macdonald, P. M.
Cleve, Clarence Taylor, P. M:
Blakely, Joseph Henry
()Jodi, Louis Charles .TuliuR
Block, Archibaltl Ira
Cluness, William Ross, Jr.

'

Cobb, Charles William
Cohn, Max Meyer
Cole, William Lake
Colton, Alric Oswy
Conn, Edward E lmer, l'. M.
Cook, Abijah Catlin
Cook, J ease Brown
Cordell, Edward Charles
!'ordll, David Andrew
Cords, William G.
Corliss, Edward Mitchel
Cox, Alex. Middleton
Cranston, John
Creswell, Harry Thornton
Crist, Wiley Frank
Cronin, Ernest Matthew
Crough, John Arthur
Curry, Charles Forrest
Daverkosen, Frank Edward
Davidson, Louis Napbthaly, P. M.
Davies, William Henry
Davis, Emanuel
Davis; George Mabery, P. :M.
Davis, Griffith
Davis, Henry H.
Dawes, Alfred George
Dean, Robert Armstrong
Dean, Stephen John
Deckelman, Hiram Abilf
DeLuca, Gesualdo
Denhard, Otto Ernest ·
Detjen, H enry Lo.uis
deWit, Henry Alber.t
DeYoung, Michel Henry
Dibble, Oliver
Dickhoff, Bernard Seligman
Dixon, Samuel Wash.
Dobbin, Hamilton Henry
Dobey, Austin England
Dodge, Henry Wash.
Dolman, Percival
Donlon, Thomas Arthur
Doose, John Christian
Dore, Emile
Dreher, Frederick Louis

405

Drinkhouse, Frederick Rosenbaum
Drucker, George Ihmer
Duke, Thomas Samuel
Dunn, Albert Wheelock
Dunne, James Patrick
Durfee, Edward Melville
Edwards, Edward
Egan, Edward Matthew
Eichorn, Julius Anthony
Eisert, Henry William
Elliot, Charles Melville
Elliott, Charles Cornelius
Ellis, John Craw
Emanuel, Samuel
England, William Albert
:F.rnst, Thom"ft
Eva, James Martyn
Eva, Samuel James
Falk, Adrian Joseph
Fannin, James Henry, Jr.
Farnsworth, Edward P.
Faulkner, Richard Douglas
·Federspiel, Sophue
Felter, William Rensalaer
Fetter, Ferdinand
Filmer, George
Filmer, William Parker, P. M.
Finberg, Martin Isaac
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph
Fletcher, George Robert
Fletcher, Joseph Marshall
~,rankhouser, Enos Benniae
Fritch, John Homer
Gamble, Frederick Nixon
Gard, John Cecil
Garden, Frank Macdonald
Garms, Walter I rvi.ng
Garnie, Fred Henry
Garrett, Willi.am Taylor
Gaston, Henry Ca.rson
Gates, Harry Everett
Gauld, George Green .
Gay, Frank Henry
Gedge, Donald McCulloch
Gellert, Isaac

40ti

George, Louis Elstner
Gerdes, Henry George
Gibson, Atherton Bruce
Gillman, Thomae
Gilson, Alfred Goodrich
Ginley, Edward
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton
Goldstone, Joseph
Goldstone, Leo William
Goodman, Jacob Leon
Gorman, Edward Mitchell
Gorman, James Bartholomew
Gould, Frank Horace, P. M.
Graham, George Davis
Graham, Gilbert Fuller
Green, Frederick Pell
Green, Henry Lloytl
Griffith, Robert Hamilton
Grundel, Otto Ferdinand
Gunzendorfer, Gustave, P. M.
Haag, Charles Paul
Hagedorn, August George
Halsted, James Lafayette
Hansen, Lawrence Henry
Hansen, Lorenz Henry
Hare, George Arthur
Harlow, George Totten
Harris, Cyrus Burnett
Harris, Henry
Harris, James William
Harris, Levi
Harris, Marshall C.
Hart, Frank Loring
Hart, Henry Hersch
Hartley, Roland English, P. M.
Hatch, James Henry
Hatcher, James Berry
Hatfield, Arthur Solomon
Hathaway, William Russell
Hawkes, Robert Hamilton
Hawthorne, Charles Ralph
Heacock , F rank ThomRs
Healy, Edwin Cliffo.rcl
Heinecke, Paul' William
H einemann, Oluf .Joha n

.KUSTER
Henderson, John
Hertz, Louis
Higgins, Charles Clunn
Hinkel, George Washington
Hirsch, David
Hobbs, Ira Sedley, P. M.
Hockwald, Abraham ·
Hoffman, Albert
Holje, Martin
Holling, Frederick Charles
Hollister, Geo. Watkins
Hooper, ,John Raymond
Hoover, George Spencer
Hosmer, Frank Wicks
l'fourihan, Engene Patrick
Hoxie, Vivian Walter
Huber, Martin Henry
Huber, Otto Frederick
Huff, Wm. Henry Routin .
Hughes, Edward Calvin
Hulling, James Alexander
Hult, Clarence Albin
Hunsaker, Hiram Walker .
Hutchings, Hiram Samuel
Hyer, John Jacob
Inch, Leonard Perkins
Ingerson, Harry Ford
Irvine, John Christopher
Jackson, Archibald
Janssen, Edward Anton
Jellison, Benja~in Franklin, P. M;
,Jones, Bert Russell
Jones, Ottiwell Wood
Jones, Richard Huber Sayers
Kant, Max David
Kayton, Abraham H arold
Kernell, Andrew Jackson
Kidd, Arthur
Kiefer, Edgar Baum
Kimble, Charles William
Kinread, William Henry
Klein, Adolph
.
Knapp, Wilbur '.Frederick
Kochman, Michael J,
Koch, John

ROSTER
l\oop, Ot.to J,ewis
Kuopfmacher, Maurice Henry
Krafft, Julius Ernest
Kroenke, August Ernst
Kroenke, Edward Henry Ferd.
Kucich, Spiro
Labhard, Theodore James
Lange, Charles Edward
Lang, Giles Benjamin
Lat timore, Andrew Johnston
Lau, Albert Henry
Law, Hartland
Layng, John Beatty
Layng, William Gibijon
Leete, Walter Howard
Levingston, Lafayette
Levison, Benjamin .
Levison, Harry
Levy, Melville Samuel
Levy, Sylvain Samuel
Lewis, Emanuel
Lieb, Warren Frederick
Linde, Theodore
Lindsay, Fred Johnston
Little, William Thomas
Livingston, Harvey L .
Logan, Roscoe Lee
Lowenberg, Albert Joseph
L urmann, Karl Frederick
Lurmann, Frederick William
Lynch, Henry Hudson
Maack, Walter Henry
Maddan, Ronald Harwood
Maginnis, Charles
Manning, George Patrick
Manning, Horatio Seymour
Marais, Charles Louis Peter, P. M.
Marble, William Manton
Marcus, Si.e gfried
Marlin, William Abel
Marshall, Joseph Lawrence
Martin, Oliver Brooks
Mathison, John Alfred
May, Angelo Mayer
Mayers, l<::dgar, John

McCullough, Edwin Clifford
Mcilvaine, Winfield Kennedy
McKee, William Joseph
McMullen, Burton Fletcher
Mee, John Sydney
Meinen, Freel August
Merralls, William Augustus
Metson, William Henry
Meyer, Adolph
Meyer, Albert Adolph
Meyer, Albert Martin
Miller, Adam
Miller, Jesse Harrison
Miller, Joseph B.
Millman, Louis Philip
Mine<lew, Oliver Francis
Mitchell, John Renton
Mocker, Andrew
Moelk, Henry Peter
Mollenhauer, John Louis
Monckton, Frank Daniel
Moon, Frederi~k
Moore, Robert Bruce
Moore, Willi&m Irwin
Moores, Charles William
Morel, Charles Frank
Morgan, Percy Tredegar
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Morris, Milton Edward
Morton, Thomas John
Mote, }Jlmer Ellsworth
Mues, John Frederick
Mundell, William Anderson
Murch, John Harold, Jr., P. M.
Murch, John Haven
Murphy; Cornelius Emit
Nauert, August Bertram
Neal, George Folger
Nelson, John Edwin
Nelson, Peter Nicoll
Nichols, Hiram Delbert
Nielson, Thomas
Niemann, Carl Henry
Nienburg, William John
Noethig, Herma nn William

407

'

\

'·

408

ROSTER

ROSTER

Nocthig, Wm. Frederick
Ochsner, Richard Leon
Ohm, Rudolph Ferderick
0 'Keeffe, Daniel Joseph Augustin
Olcovich, Julian Herrman
Packer, Charles Henry
Patterson, Lloyd Horace
Peek, Allen Harris
Peek, George Foster
Pennycook, William Gemmel
Peters, Henry
Peterson, George
Peterson, Ivan Leopold
Peterson, Julius Ole
Petrie, Frank Branson
Pickard, Charles
Pickett, Jesse Cameron
Pinkham, Chas. Bradley
Place, George Coxon
Pratt, Frank
Price, William
Proll, William Reginald
Puck, Richard Frederick S.
Putnam, Leo. James
Rainsbury, John
Raisch, Albert John
Raisch, William Christopher
Ralston, Franklin Freeman
Ranft, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Recarte, Domingo Henry
Redfield, Francis Edwin
Redmond, Ezekiel
Reynolds, Johnson, P. M.
Rice, William Edgar
Rice, William Henry
Richards, James Henry
Richards, John Francis
Riehl, Richard
Rier, August Fredrich
Rixon, Albert William
Roberts, Joseph W.
Roethe, Edward John
Roemer, Oscar Max
Rogers, Henry George
Rogers, Samuel Lueiu11

Rohde, Peter Frederick
Rose, Carl Walter
Rosendorn, Solomon
Ross, William Moulton
Roseick, Frank
Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Rowe, Purcell
Rupp, George Paul
Rushton, Charles Austin
Ryan, Frank Bradberry
Ryfkogel, William James Yuill
Sainges, ·Prosper Albert
Salsbury, Charles
Sanders, James Montague ·
Saxton, James George
Saylor, William Henry
Sehalitz, Carl Louis
Scheel, Conrad Ernest
Schiff, Edwin Raymond
Schiller, Nathan
Schilling, .John Charles
Schleicher, August Frederick
Schloss, Aaron, P. M.
Schnee, Gustave
S('.hnee, Marcus
Schober, Henry Julius
Sr.hruemli, Emile
Schussler, Toby
Scott, George Benjamin
Sherman, Edward Everett
Shimer, Harry Woodworth
Silver, Mark Butler
Simmen, Frank Paul, P. M.
Skellinger, Harry Dow
Smiley, Samuel Patton
Smith, Andrew Francis
Smith, Charles Alfred
Smith, Frank Landers Markham
Smith, John Thompson
Smith, Louis Edwin
Smyth, Owen Henry
Snow, Samuel
Sobel, Max Marcus
Solmonson, Julian Kaskel
Speneer, William Freeman

Spauton, James
Spowart, James Beverage
Spreckels, John D., Jr.
Sproule, William
Staneart, John Warren
Steiner, Joseph Samuel
S.teinmann, Otto
Stevens, James William
Stevenson, Samuel Boyd, P. M.
Stewart, Charles Richard
Stone, Waid James
Stott, Joseph Hood
Suhr, Herrman Fred, Jr.
Swain, Frank Allston
Taber, 01'.rin, Jr.
Tade, John Edwin
Teller, George
Thaten, Peter Hansen
Thomas, Francois Charles
Thomson, Harry Stoddard
Tittel, Robert Carl
Toni, Edward George
Toothill, Albert
Tracy, Theo, Foster
Trail, John Critchley F.
Tryon, William Merrill
Tunstead, Thomas Duncombe
Turner, Ernest
Van Emon, Burton Charles
Vecki, Victor G.
Veit, Mathias
Vogelsang, Alex. Theo.
Waas, Louis Henry Hermann
Wagener, Francie Emil
Wagner, Henry Fred
Walker, Robert Andrew
Warwick, David
Warwick, James Blain

400

Watkins, Joseph
Weaver, George E.
Webster, Frank Woodward
Weihe, Otto Albert
Welch, James Francis
We!isch, Armand L.
Wenzel, Henry
Wertheimer, Bertram Ed.
Wertheimer, Kaufman
Wetherbee, Charles
Wetherbee, George
Wethered, William Lowry
Whiting, Randolph Virginius, P. M.
White, Walter Hastings
Whitley, Gerald Storer
Whit5on, John Granville
Wieboldt, Peter Wm. Nicholas
Williams, Thomas Carlisle
Willis, Christopher Cooke
Wise, Wallace Christian
Witham, William Leonard
Wittman, George Walter, P. M.
W olpmann, Diedrich
Wood, Fred Burrage, P. M.
Wood, Thomas
Woods, Roy Vayne
Woodworth, Norval D.
Worthington, Harry Lee
Wrenn, John Winchester
Wright, Fred 'k Fullerton
Young, Henry Fred
Young, James
Zahler, Emil Frederick
Zeiss, Walter Peter
Zellerbach, Isadore
Zi!iani, Faustino
Ziliani, Joseph Charles
-522

WITHDRAWN:
Rabertson, John
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Beall, Samuel Josiah
Knight, Ray Nathaniel

410.

ROSTER

ROSTER
DIED:

Bethell, Thoma~ Waldron
Dawson, George Charles
Dunlevy, Charles Edw. Sheridan
Handley, Charles James
Henderson, Alexander Boyd

MacDonald, All.an
Martin, Htmry Sebastian
Muessdorffer, Charles George
Roethe, Charles Henry
Wendell, Clarence Theodore

TUSCAN LODGE, No.

261.

Hrhaad, Leroy
8chuckman, Charles Walter
Schuckman, Frank James
Himmons, Ueorge Heury, P. M.
Spencer, John Adams
Stites, William Henry, P. M.
Stovall, Hiram Curl, P. M.

Tully, William Robert

Stovall, James McFarran
Sutton, Adam Fisher
Tully, William Curtis
Ware, George Abner, P. M.
· West, Charles Edward, P. M.
White, John Cobb
Worsley, Everett John

411

-56

DIED:
Welch, Robert Francis

Williams, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

LOMPOC LODGE, No. 262.

OFFICERS:

Lompoc, Santa Barbara County.•
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Gusta!£ Ernest Franke, Master,
Herman Foster Clarke, Sen. Deacon,
Williams, Cal.
Leroy Schaad, Junior Deacon,
Benjamin Franklin Peters, Sen. W., Austin Arthur Entrican, Marshal,
Bert Leland Fouch, Jun. Warden,
Charles L. Schaad, Steward,
James Mcfarren Stovall, Treasurer, Everet James Worsley, Steward,
James Wilson Crutcher, Secretary, Percival Hamilton Worthey, 'Tyler.
Williams, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abel, George Lambert
Harris, Joseph. Warren
Abel, John Frederick, Jr., P. M.
Hemenway, George
Anthony, George Jonathan
Kimball, Adolphus Wellington, P. M.
Barker, George William
Kidd, Floyd Edwin
Boardman, Francie Marion
Kneutzen, Edgar Hound
Bond, David Milton
Leek, Ernest August
Bosworth, Henry Clark
Levy, Aaron B.
Brim, John Willy
Manor, Lewis G.
Carney, Joseph Francis
Mendenhall, John Lindsey, P. M.
Clark, Herman Foster
Mitchell, David Grover
Clark, Reuben, P. M.
Noble, William Wallace
Comstock, Geo. Courtland, P. M.
Northey, George Vine
Course, John Mitchell
Northey, Percival Hamilton, P. M.
Crutcher, James Wilson
Olsen, Peter
Eakle, Stephen Smith, P. M.
Peters, Benjamin Franklin
Entrican, Austin Arthur, P. M.
Peters, Benjamin Henry
Fouch, Bert Leland
Pryor, Benjamin Pollard
Fouch, Ira Albert, P. M.
Rathbun, Horace Herbert, P. M.
Fouch, John Franklin, P. M.
Rathbun, Joseph Edwin, P. M.
Franke, Gustave Ernest
Schaad, Charles Lemuel
Graham, Patrick Henry
Schaad, Clarence August

OFFICERS:

Henson Poland, Cha.plain,
Cyrus Milburn Tucker, Master,
Charles C. Hardenbrook, Sen. Deac.,
Lompoc, Cal.
Frederick A. Brown, Sen. Warden, Benton F. ·Marshall. Junior Deacon,
John Horace Stewart, Marshal,
Carl D. McCabe, Junior Warden,
Walter Scott Huyck, Steward,
Amos C. Whittemore, Treasurer,
Ray B. Saunders, Steward,
Henry H . Lambert, Secretary,
James H. McGee, Tyler.
Lompoc, Cal.

Adam, Donald McDonald
Anderson, Ernest
Andrews, Owtin Merriwether
Bailey, William Henry
Batkin, Royal Phillip
Bayley, Benjamin Franklin
Beatty, Sanford Wilson
Eissinger, Wright Conrad
Boie, Francis Hugo
Boyd, Allan March
Branch, George
Brown, Frederick Allen
Brown, Frederick Darwin
Buchanan, Porter
Buckman, Howard Spencer
Burke, Albert Dana
Burns, Alfred Isaac
By e, William Helmer, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Callis, Frank Irwin
Case, George Lester
Corbett, Frederick William
Dauneberg, Robert, P. M.
Davis, Charles Augustus
Dillon, Martin Van Buren
Dimock, Harry Clinton, P. M.
Dimock, Joseph
Dreyfus, Gaston
Dyer, Albert Hull
Earl, James Fennel
Elkins, Iris Benson
Field, · Ezra Grant
Graham, James William
Griffin, Richard S.
Halloway, James Weaver
··Hardenbrook, Charles Kelley
Harris, Sampson B.

412

Holloway, Albert Johnston
Holst, Gerhard To.11berg
Howerton, Mat W.
Huyck, Clare11ce L.
lfuyck, Walter Scott
Jackson, Walter King
Kahn, Louis
Kaiser, William
Kdliher, Mayville Sumpter
Kidd, Robert Bohen
King, Charles Harvey
Kirkpatrick, John Morse
Klein, Julius, P. M.
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Lazier, Richard Albert
Lehmann, Armond, P. M.
Lehmann, Charles Emile
Lewis, Frank Stanton
Lewis, Walter A.
Lind, John Christian
Luton, George Roscoe
Marshall, Benton Fred 'k
McCabe, Carl D.
McCabe, Harry C.
McCabe, Henry Edwin
McGee, James Henry
McGr:gor, Robert Roy
McPhail, Albert Franklin
Meade, Alonzo
Perry, Thomas Longworth
Pittman, William Houston
Plumm, George Washington
Poland, Henson, P. M.
Poulsen, Jensen Peter

ROSTER

ROSTER

Read, Charles E.
Reynolds, Geo. Edgar
Ripley, William .Juds.on
Robertson, ,lames Edward
Rosendale; Henry Johannes
Rucker, Geo. Ferguson, P. M.
Rudolph, Arthur, P. M.
Rudolph, Harvey Sampson
Rudolph, John Franklin
Sannders, Ray Boon
Shanklin, Lowell F.
Sheridan, Elmer McCaskey
Sloan, Jamee
Smith, James Henry
,
Smith, Walter Robert, P. M.
Spanne, Nie Lauritzen
Spicer, Charles A.
Starr, Edward Bean
Stewart, Walter Arthnr
Talbot, Guester Hartt
Talbot, William Lyman
Talliday, Jerome W.
Thompson, John Henry
Truitt, Daniel Tingle
'l'ucker, Cyrus Milburn
Wallin, William Henry
Weill, Armond Charles
Weill, Maier W.
Wilkins, Edwin Chester, P. M.
Whittemore, Amos .c., P. M.
Wigell, Wilson B.
Wright, Irwin
Wright, Walter Scott

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Ball, Walter Colton
Meals, Charles Andre.we
Truitt, Samuel Paul

-lOS

413

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated llleetiags, &turday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Manuel Francisco Pires, Master, . Lorenzo Waugh Blosser, Chaplain:
Santa Maria, Cal.
Ernest Cecil Black, Senior Deacon,
Lee Lester Lemmon, Sen. Warden, Ethan Allen Grisham, Jun. Deacon,
Mark Holgate Whitney, Jun. Ward., Henry Clay Bagby, Marshal,
Leopolo Pio Sc;uoni, Treasurer,
Ernest J. Parrish, Steward,
Ormond Pinkerton Paulding, Secy., Garth Henry· Harington, Steward,
Santa Maria, Cal.
John Harrison Haydon, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Coiner, Samuel Taney
Coker, Francis Marion
Coleman, Earl Roy
Colvin, Lewie Lleweileon
Cope, James Ernest
Cost, August
Uraighill, r~rnest James
Crow, Samuel Eugene
Cuff, Charles Armstrong
Culp, William Woo<le
Davis, Bernard
Davie, Dallas Denver
Davis, William Frank
Doane, George Mason
Dobson, Ed Green
Dndley, Albert AJlen, P . M.
Dutcher, Charles B.
Eames, Abraham Lincoln
Earl, Fred Emmett
Earl, Robert Wesley, P. M.
Easton, Robert Eastman
Elliott, George
Elliott, James William
Evans, Oscar Elmo
Ebel, Julius
Fesler, Stephen Arnold
Fesler, Sterling Olivor
Fillius, Ralph Rolland
Finley, Theo. Randolph, P. M.

Abels, Henry John, P. M.
Allen, Oliver O.
Alverado, William Pablo
Armstrong, Charles U.
Bagby, Henry Clay, P. M.
Baker, Frederick Arthur
Baker, Major P.
Bell, Joseph Ross
Black, Ernest Cecil
Blosser, Elbert Eldridge, P. M.
Blosser, Garrett Lorenzo
Blosser, Lorenzo Waugh
Bonetti, ,John Baptista
Boyd, John
Boyd, ThO'mas
Bradley, Charles
Bradley, James Fred'k.
Brennan, John Keim
Brown, Arthur Lee
Brown, Chas. Benj.
Brown, George Gilbert
Brown, Marcellue
Brown, Robert Walker, P. M.
Button, Burnell De Witt
Eussell, Mark Rainey
Chadsey, Robert Morrison
Chandler, Lafayette F.
Chester, George Henry
Coblentz, Lambert B., P. M.

414

,ROSTER

l•'Jeisher, Marks, P. M.
.l!'leisher, Samuel, P. M.
Fox, Llewellyn Lawrence
Frailey, William Ellmore
Froom, Ace! Harvey
Gardner, Charles Virgil
Garrett, Joseph Martin
Gates, Franklin Henry
Gingrich, James
Glines, Robert Cassius
Goodchild, James W. Jr.
Goouwin, James Franklin, P. M.
Graham, Charles Emory
Granger, George Samuel
Grant, John W.
Grant, Robert Bruce
Gray, Robert James
Greve, Milton Francis
Grissham, Ethan Allen
Guthrie, Charles Marion
Hanline, Clarence Vincent
Harington, Garth Henry
Harpster, David Pyle
Hart, George Lawson
Hart, John
Hartly, James Benton
Hatfield, Guy D.
Haydon, John Harrison, P. M.
Heath, John Holloway
Hebbard, Francis Edward
Heller, Herman Alwin
Helvey, Alfred Allen
Hemingway, George
Herron, James Williamson, P. M.
Herring, Edward Lewis
Hickey, Abraham Lincoln
Highers, Alwin Overton
Hobson, Clarence Jay
Holt, Leon Cleveland
Hopkins, Wilber Louis
Hopper, Joel Leigh
Houk, John
Humphrey, Earl H.
Hurst, Willis Edward
.James, Charles Edward

Jansen, Robert Christensen
Johnson, Charles Lent
Johnson, George Kay
Jones, Albert Rennaylds, P." M.
Jones, Henry Martin
Jones, Warden S.
Kaiser, Joseph
Kelley, Hugh Sylvester
h.elley, William F.
Kennedy, Albert Patterson
Kennedy, Harry
Kimball, Henry W.
Kobloth, Julius
Krohn, Henry Harrison
'
Lang, John
Lang, Mark
Lengfeld, Karl G. 0.
Lansing, Alonzo Paige
Lemley, Lafayette
Lemmon, Lester Lee
Libeu, John Babtiste
Lind, James Melche
Lindeman, Fred
Livingston, Charles Simon
Lockwood, Charles Henry
Lockwood, Joseph Gardner
Logan, ,John Samuel
Logan, 'Villiam Pleasant
Long, John Samuel
Lopez, Joseph Virgil
Mac<lonalcl, William Grant
Manchester, Floyd Richard
Martin, Charles LeRoy
Martin, John Howard
Mattei, Charles Rudolph
Mattei, Clarence Clayton
Mattei, Felix
Mccann, John Earl
McElhany, Cloyd MiltoD.
McGuire, Mortimer Lafayette
McJunkin, Roy Lenard
McKee, Norman Ross
McMurray, Theo. Zelim
Miller, Isaac, Jr.
Miller, Wayne Anthony

.ROSTER

415

Smith, James
Mitc hell, Eu.gar Lillian
Spalding, David Carter
MiteheU, Watson Edwar<l
Stephens, Howard Shannon
Moore, Harvey A.
Morgan, William Shelby
Stewart, Joseph Ross
Stowe; Dudley Dunning
Murdock, Charles Wallace G.
Morris, Lewis Joseph, P. M.
Stowell, Henry Edgar
M:usico, Guiseppe
Strahan, William Calvin
Nance, Thomas
Thompson, James Roderick
Nickson, Hubert William
'fhornburg, Frank Leslie
Niverth, Stephen
'l'hornburg, Madison, P. M.
Norris, John McNeil
Tietzen, Paul Otto
P arrish, Ernest J.
Todd, Willard
Parraud, Antonio
Treat, James Madison
Patterson, Addison Austin
Trott, Emmett Dee
Trumbull, William Washington
Paul cling, Ormond Pinkerton
Tunnell, George Robert
Peterman, Joseph Lyonel
Tunnell, Henry Clay
Pettit, Jesse William
Tunnell, William Hulbert, P. M.
Petty, James R.
Twitchell, Fremont C., P. M.
P ierce, Frank Ogdon
Pierce, William Anthony
Van Lone, Walter Allan
Ringo, George David
Van Matre, Nelson Blienu
Pires, Manuel Francisco, P. M.
Von Breyman, Geo. Edward
Walker, James
P ratt, Venerotia Taylor
Walker, William Frederick
Prell, John Gottlob
Watterson, William
Priesker, Thomas Clayton
Webb, John William
Reghetti, Elvizio
W eilheimer, Alfred
Rice, John Tandy
Robertson, Hugh Franklin, P. M.
Whitcher, Chas. Leslie
RobeSQn, James Leland
White, John Alton
Ross, Charles Ferree
Whitener, Raymond Charles
Whitney, Mark Holgate
Saunders, John William
Whitney, William Bruce
Sawyers, Wade Hampton, P. M.
Scaroni, Lepold Pio
Whitcher, Maynard Daniel
Williams, Thomas Jeffreys
Seeley, James Watt
Sepulveda, Frank Rosario
Wolfe, John Richard
Sinsheimer, Samuel Charles
Wright, Edward Anthony
Smith, Frank Barton
-221
WITHDRAWN:
· Tunnell, John Lafayette
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kelley, Henry J.
DIED:
Kemp, William Park

41'6

ROSTER

ORLAND LODGE. No. 265.
Orland, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ROSTER
Thomas, William Wesley
Utz, Adolph Albert
Utz, Gustave
Utz, Julius Marsh
Utz, Magnus Carl

Utz, William Henry
George Ejlward
Watkins, Wiiliam Wallace
Winkler, Joseph S.
Wright, George Ephraim, P. M.
Wa~te,

-70

OFFICERS:

:!\lbert Edward Royce, Seti. Deacon,
Louis Martin Reager, .Master,
Stanley David Koons, Jun. Deacon,
Orland, Cal.
Samuel Iglich, Marshal,
Roy O'Hair, Sen. Ward.,
George Absolom Reager, Stew ard,
Samuel A . Goldman, 111.11. Ward.,
Frank Seymour Reager, Treasttrer, John Thomas, Steward,
George Edgar Rawlins, Secretary, William Wallace Thomas, Tyler.
Orland, Cal.
I .
MEMBERH:
McCandlass, Alfred Lewis
Bailey, Mark
McClintock, John Porter
Bancroft, George Mason
Mecum, Earl Horton
Bane, Paul Davis
Mecum, Ira Edgar
Brown, David
Miller, Charles Douglas
Brown, De Arnold
Milner, Thomas
Brown, Thomae, P. M.
Monroe, Alfred Harold
Busey, Fred 'k. Lewis
Moore, Allen Earl
Clark, Willard, P. M.
Moore, Allen Twinson, P. M.
Clawson, Charles Wilson
Morrissey, James Byron, P. M.
Cleek, Jeb Stuart
Morrissey, William Henry, P. M.
Conley, Joseph
Murdock, Gawn Worth
Davis, Charles J.
Murdock, Robert Burns
Drake, Thomas Benton
Murdock, Stanley Worth, P. M.
Ehorn, Eugene Michael
Neilson, James
Ehorn, Joseph Evert
0 'Hair, Henry
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
0 'Hair, Roy, P . M.
Goldman, Samuel
Papst, Albert
\.lr €en , Edward Elmer
Papst, Ralph Rudolph
Greenwood, Willis AdeH,ert
lh1wlins, o,orge Edg11.1·
Hamilton, John ·cummins
Reager, George Absolom
lf.a nnah, Davia
'Reager, Frank Seymour
TTRrrigcr , GeorgP Washington
Reager, Louis Martin
Hightower, 'Roy DeWitt
Roberts, Bruce Sheldon
Holmes, Raleigh
Royc e, Albert Edward
Jglick, Samuel, P. M.
Skillman, James Michael
K esselring, Emanuel Bentz
Spence, William Edward
Kirkpatrir.k, Garfield Stanlry
Spencer, James W.
Kirkpatrick. Thomas .T.
Steuben, Walter Robert
Koons, Stanley David
Thomas, John
L a wton, Howard Mills

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266.
Fort Bidwell, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday ~n each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Daniel Kafoder, Master,
Fort Bidwell, Cal.
George Fordyce, S enior Warden,
William J . Verling, Junior Warden,
:\[ax Fulcher, Trcas11rcr,
Byron Francis McCombs, Secretary,
Fort Bidwell.

Robert Franklin McConnaugqy, Chp.,
Edward Charles McConnaughy, S. D.,
Eber Dextor Smith, lttnior Deacon,
Francis Kaster Smith, Marsh(ll,
Henry Kober, Steward,
James Williams, Steward,
George Cristie Smith, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ayres, George HaUJilton, P. M.
Kober, Henry, P. M.
Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Leithead, Charles E., P. M.
Baty, Albert Longley
Lowell, Albert Carroll, P. M.
Baty, David Worn
Mccombs, Byron Francis
Brown, John
Mcconnaughy, Edward C., P. M.
Browne, Daniel Parish
Mcconnaughy, Robert Fran)l:lin
Bucher, Douglas
Messner, Freel George
Dodson, John
Mey ers, Fred
Ellis, James
Moffitt, John
Fee, Charles H11veµ, P. M.
P oor, Franklin Benj.
Flemming, ~heo. Mirten
Ray mon~, Irving Clark
Fulcher, Max.
Smith, Eber Dexter
Herrington, Jerry
Smith, Francis lr1111tner
Hickey, James Bartlett
Smith, George Christie
Hunter, Hugh Alex.
Tonningsen, Asmus Frederick
.Tacobs, Oliver Weller
Verling, William .J.
Kafader, Charles Daniel, P. M.
Ward, Albert Smith
Kober, George Martin, P. M.
Williams, .Tames
-36
EXPELLED:
Fnlrher, Frank Edward
DIED:
.lopp, Hudson Orsen
27

418

ROSTER

ROSTER

GALT LODGE, No. 267.

DURANT LODGE, No. 268.

Galt, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full J\.Ioon.

Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.

419

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Bunn Benford Smith, Master,
Charles E . Lease, Junior DeacolS,
. Galt, Cal.
Timothy S. Merrill, Marshal,
Lewis Gardner Baldwin, S en. Ward., W . J. Altnow, Stewai·d,
Elihu S. Henley, Junior Warden,
Wallace B. Sawyer, Treasurer,
Joseph L. Orvis, Secretary,
Galt, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Lovett, Homer Schiller
Adams, Charles Campbell
Madison, Benjamin
Altnow, William Julius
McClaughry, Samuel C., P. M:
Baldwin, Lewis Gardner, P. M.
Merrell, Timothy S.
Barnhart, Thomas M.
· Morrison, Lebbius B.
Bolton, Curtis Arthur
Orvis, Joseph Lloyd
Conklin, William A.
Prouty, William Harrison
Conley, James
Rae, John Goodwilla
Erchenberger, Frederick
Sawyer, James C.
l!'razier, James Oscar, P. ?4.
Sawyer, Tom John
Gann, James Franklin
Sawyer, Wallace Born
Gower, Ray Louis
Shepard, Amor D.
Hagel, John
Short, James Madison, P. M·.
Hartman, John
Smith, Bunn Benford
Henley, Elihu Shields, P. M.
Smith, Charles Samuel
Kennedy, K.enneth Clyde
Sullivan, Thomas Ernest
King, William Isaac
Whitaker, James
Latourrette, Pandes H., P. M.
Wriston, Charles Ransom
T... ease, Charles Edward
Lewis, Samuel Amanzo

Ccorge Edmund Oxley, Master,
Walter Augustus Sloan, Sen. Deacon,
3024 Fulton St., Berkeley, Cal.
Elmer Ellsworth Myers, Jun . Deac.,
r~aac Don Bluxome, Senior Warden, Edward Lee Soule, Marshal,
George Henry E. O'Donnell, Treas., George Wm. O'Brien, Steward,
William Henry H. Gentry, Secretary, Walter Wadsworth Bradley, Stwd.,
1747 Delaware St., Berkeley, Cal. Brazillia P. Bull, Tyler.
Wni. Harrison Waste, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Acheson, William Johu
Biehl, Philip Fred 'k Christian
Blanchard, Milton Eugene
A<lelseck, Edward
Adler, John Olaf
Blank, Charles Alexander
Albee, Marshall 'Pickney W., P. M . Bliven, Ralph Wagener
Alberti, Frank Jackson
Blohm, Charles Henry, P. M.
Allen, Charles Edward
Bluxome, Isaac Don
Allyn, George Spencer
Boag, Matthew Pettigrew
Andersen, Andrew
Bolles, Edward Grosvenor
Anderson, Alfred
Bolton, Adelbert Elwin
Anderson, William Walker, P. M.
Booker, John Coakley L.
Appleton, William
Bourke, Louis
Arlett, Arthur
Bowers, Jonas Irwin
Ashland, William Elbert
Bowman, Benjamin Franklin
Atthowe, Reginald
Bowring, Franklin
Atthowe, Wm. John
Bradley, John Samuel
Backus, Watson Goodban
Bradley, Walter Wadsworth
Baker, Barney P.
. Branthaver, Daniel
Bancroft, Charles Edwin
Brecheen, Thomas Levin
Barnes, Henry Humfrey
Bretherton, Sidney Elliott
Barnes, John W. H.
Bricker, Lorin H.
Bartlett, (j-eorge Clinton
Bridgman, Edward Charles, P. M.
Barton, John Edward
Bridgman, Harry William
Beattie, John Wm. Cox
Brown, George Chester
Browne, Alexis Leonidas
Becker, Johannes Paul
Berry, Rufus Albert
Bull, Barzillia P., P. M.
Berryman, Frederick Miles, P. M.
Burg, Edward John
Burg, Gustaf Frederick
Berryman, John
Burnham, Carl Bridges
Betts, Percy George
Biedenbach, Charles Louis, .P . M.
Burr, Richard Olcott

4~0

· ROSTER

Bush, Robert Edward
Bush, Will Pratt
Caldecott, John William
Caldecott, Thomas Edwin
Cameron, William Harry
Carter, Charles William
Chadbourne, Thomas Edgar
Chamberlain, Roland Lee
Chapman, Paul Edwin
Chase, JoJiij Fr11nklin
Chase, Thomas !lenry
Chick, Guy Hyde
Chilcote, Gaylord Hammond
Church, Sidney Leroy
Christoph, Gustav
Clark, Ernest Brooks
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Clark, Thomas James
Clemensen, Edward
Cloudman, Harold Caldwell
Cloudman, Octavius King, P. M.
Coggins, Clifford Edmund
Coleman, William Seward, P. M.
Colemore, Charles Arthur
Connor, Fred Frank
Cooley, Arthur Stuart
Cooley, Frederick Allen
Cooper, William John
Cornish, Harry Louis
Creagmile, Thomas
Crow, Clarence Cross
Dakin, Clarence Casebolt
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd, Jr.
Daseking, Herman
Davis, David George
Deming, James Hervey
Dobbins, Hugh Hills
Donough, Andrew Ormsby
Doolittle, Nelson Roseville
Dore, Cornelius William
Dowling, Daniel Edward
Dozier, Charles Thomasson
Drum, Will Pierpont
Dungan, H erbert Leo

Dunscomb, Charles Ellsworth
Durant, James 4-lvah
Durgin, Frank Ward
Durrell, George Gilman
Dyke, Louis Henry
Dykes, Benj. Currier
Dykes, Hugh Thomas
Edgar, ArthiJr
Edgar, Rob~rt, P. M.
Edg1u:, Samu&l
Edg!!-r, William James
Edwards, Benjllmin Franklin
Elwell, Frank David
Emanu ,el~, Geo. :frediirick
Etzel, Louis William
Etzel, Theo. Christopher
Fabiansen, George Emil
Farrar, Joseph Teel
Farrar, Joseph Teel, Jr.
Farrar, Wendell Dale
Fenander, Kaarlo
Ferrier, Francis
Finley, Dozier, P. M.
Finton, William Howard
Foss, Martin
Fouch, Albert, P. M.
Fox, Michael Peter
Frank, Frederick Sophus
Franks, Henry Ernest
Fraser, Daniel McLeod
Frazier, Silas Henry, P. M.
Frey, Arthur Ferdinand
Galloup, Henry Clay
Gentry, Wm. Henry Harri.son, P. M.
George, Harry Eugene
Gerrine, Charles AndMw
Gibb, Charles Leo
Gilbert, Charles Phelps
Gill, John
Girard, Francis John
Godbold, John Henry
Gompertz, Charles Felix
Gompertz, Walter Alex., P. M.
Goodburn, William Robert
Goss, Homer

ROSTER
Gottshall, Louis
Graber, Thomas Frederick
Grigg, Thomas Monrde
Gregg, Welliugton, Jr.
Greig, Robert, P. M.
Griesche, Arthur James
Griesche, Gustave Adolph, P. M.
Griesche, William Fred
Gritlith, David Josepli
Haines, William Barre
Hamlin, Terrel Lambert
Hampton, Josepl1 Charles
Hanscom, Meldon Leroy
Haring, Clarence Melvin
Harms, Edward Theo.
Harroun, Philip Embury
Hartley, Edwin
Hartley, Joseph Harlan
Haseltine, Richard Snell
Hays, Thomas Abraln
Beans, Robert Gage
Heydorn, Harry Gerome
Heywood, Charles Dingley
Higgins, Chatles Henry
Hill, William Lair
Hiuey, William
Riney, William Dodson
Holla.ncl, Frank Leonard
Holt, George Washingtbn
Hopkins, William Hewes
Huberich, Victor Hugo
Hueter, Ferdina.nd Edward
Hughes, Alva Fish
Hunt, Clarence Melville
Hunt, Philip M.
Hyde, Wm. Herschel, Jr.
Ison, William, P . M.
.Jacobsen, Nels Augut
James, Chas. 1Ietbert
Jenness, Hetoert Henri
Jensen, Jens Peter
Jensen, John Charles, P. M.
Johnson, Joseph A. McC.
Johnston, Charies Edward
Jones, Herbert

Kelly, William Harris
Kelsey, Clarence Early
Kelsey, Frank Bayles
Kelsey, John Edson
Kerr, John Norman
Kierulff, Thomas Cundell
Kilburn, Cleon
Kirk, Miles Woolery
Kittridge, Maurice Cogswell
Kline, George Washington
Knowles, Wm. A. Lindley, P. M.
Knowles, William Edward
Laird, Herbert :Frank
Lamb, Robert Boardman
Lansing, Henry Day
Lasell, Fred Norman
Loale, Richard Andrew
Leonard, George, P. M.
Lester, James Robert
Lewin, Robctt AlHin
Lindsay, Lionel
Little, James Edwin
Lockett, Albert
Longnecker, Harry Ellsworth
Lord, Carlos Reuben, P. M.
Lorenz, William Frederick
Love, Joseph Charles
MacLcnnan, Malcolm C.
·Macomber, 13enjamin
Maddrill, John William
Maldondo, Fernando B.
Mantz, Robert William
Marsellis, Ford
Martin, John, P. M.
Mason, Wm. MacPherson
Masters, Stuart Galbtaith
Mattern, George Alfred
Maydwell, Charles Allen
McClain, Charles Joseph
McCleave, Thomas Crooke
Mcbon:ild, Duncan F.
McGrew, Gifford Horace G., P. M.
McGrew, James :Bracken, P M.
McEntyre, Dan Hugh
McLean, Charles Henry

421

ROSTER
McMillan, William Danford
Phillips, W dton .Josiah
McNulty, Charles Raymond
Pierce, Archie Burton
McNulty, Harry James
Popert, William Hoff
McNulty, James Monroe
Pntzker, Albin
·Meredith, James Wash.
Ralston, Robert Gordon
Ramoni, Frederick Lewis
Merrall, Willard Henry
Merrill, Clarence Sidney
Randall, Henry Irwin
Merrill, Ralph Howard
Rasmussen, Peter Niels
Mesick, William Rundle
Reece, Frederick Bennett
Mesow, Frank Herman
Reed, Fred Elroy
Metcalf, George Dickson, P. M.
Reef, Henry Jacob
Michaelis, Rudolph Frank
Reinhardt, George Frederick
Mikkelsen, Christian
Remond, Prudent
Mills, Philo
Rhodes, James Woodmanse .
Mohr, Geor~e Lewis
Richards, John William·
Monges, Henry Baba:d, Jr.
Richardson, Friend William
Moran, William Chadwick
Rir hardson, Ueorge Henry·
Morris, Moses
Richter, Frederick CI:iarles
Morris, Ozias Manly
Rice, Philip
Morrison, Hugh Robert
Riegar, William
Morse, Clinton Ralza
Roach, William Henry
Mortimer, Frank Cogswell
Roberts, Don Mitchell
Myers, Elmer Ellsworth
Robinson, Harrison Sidney ·
Mosher, James Walton
Rose, Burton James, P. M.
Naylor, Charles Murgatroyd
Rowell, Hubert Nathan
Needham, William Gloss
Rowell, Joseph Arthur
Neiman, William Franklin
Ruble, George Frank
Neiman, Wm. Henry
Rudolph, John 0 harles
Runde, Christopher Henry George
Nelson, Niles Harrington
Newr omb, Ralph P. 0.
Rutherford, Robert Ruecastle
Newhall, Charles Abbot
Sanchez, Joseph Gordon
Nichols, John Carroll
Saph, Augustus Valentine
Niehaus, Edward Ernest
Sawyer, Able Allen
. Nixon, Joseph Robert
Schmitz, Hugo
0 'Brien, George William
Schneider, George Louis
0 'Donnell, Francis Henry E ., P. M. Schott, Walter: Edgar
Oxley, Arthur Verney
Schofield, Lynn Mason
Oxley, George Edmund
Schroeder, Harry Charles
Schuldt, Emil George
Parry, David Henry
Scotchler, Joseph Lincoln
Pattersen, Henry Robert
Peake, Frederick Richard Graham
Scott, George Arthur·
Pearce, Jackson Andrew
Seaborn, Fred
Perry,. Wm. Stanton
Servis, William Ratcliff
Sharwood1 William John·
Pflterson, Theo. Carl Wilhelm
Sherman, Andrew Fairchild
Phillips, Rodney F orseth, Jr.

ROSTER
Shirk, D"avid Lawson
Shoecraft, Byron Nye
Shreve, Earl Owen
Shuman, John Franklin
Sill, Stephen Joseph
Simpson, Frank Wm.
Sittig, Edward John
Slack, Walter Keyes
Sloan, Walter Augustus
Smith, Arthur Maxson
Smith, Howard Murr:i.y
Smith, James Lumbert
Smith, Lovett Reynolds
Smith, Sterling Wallace
Solinsky, Frank Joseph, Jr.
Soule, Edward Lee
Springer, Fred Foster
Springer, George Ernest
Squires, Harry James
Stamper, Alva Walker
Stephens, Alex. Hamilton
Stevenson, Thomas
Stewart, Robert
Stocking, Reuben Hurd
Stone, Jack Livingston
Stone, Marion Pierce, P. M.
St over, Noble McMurry
St rother, Horace Feaguis
Stubenrauch, Arnold Valentine
::!uch, William Thomas
Swain, Geo~ge
Swayne, Richard Barnard
Sykes, Joseph Smith
Taylor, Henry Willard
Thomas, Edmund Davies, P , M.
Thomas, Edmund John.
'Phom as, Joseph David
'rhompson, Robert Crawford
Thomson, Robert
Thornton, Albert Warren
Thrall, Herbert Parsons
Threlkeld, Melville Calvert
Titus, Louis
Tobin, David Joseph
Todd, Frank Morton

Traub, Hany Louis
Van der Haas, Pieter Adrianne H.
Van Wynen, Edward Alfred
Wadsworth, William Henry
Wagner, Ernest Albert
Wagner, Peter A.
Wall, George Samuel
Wallace, Fred William
Walsh, Edward Marion
Wanger, Gustav Adolph
Waste, Harry Lotis
Waste, William Harrison, P. M.
Waterman, Sylvanus Dexter
Watson, Henry Hugh
Webb, Christopher Clark
Wehh, George Standish
Weeks, George Rufus
Weir, Robert John
Weir, William Kirkwood
Welden, David Ralph
Wentworth, Daniel Rodger
Westenberg, Charles Albert
Whalley, Thomas Williams
Wharff, William Hatch
Wheeler, William Henry
Whitham, J 01.tn Hastings
Wiggin, Charles Edward
Wilcox, George L.
Wilkinson, Crayton Winsor
Williams, James Henry
Wilson, Gustaf Herman
Winham, Harry Granville
Winter, De
Wise, James Hugh
Wood, Alpheus .Joel
Wood, Jacob Hanlin
Woolsey, Philip Sheridan
Woolsey, Wm. Edgar
Worden, Elisha Case
Wright, Harry Manville
Wright, William Abourn
Wyman, J . Henry, P. M.
Young, Roy Jackson
Young, William Albert
Zehner, Harry Sc.ott
-418

.ROSTER

ROSTER

424

WITHDRAWN:
Ryder, Morgan Lewis
Gerrard, Halford Dumergue
Sherman, Robert Waddelle
Peters, Joseph Arnold
Wilder, James Chase

Beaver, Scott Ingalls
Dibble, Robert Mitchell

DIED:
Laine, Frederick Adolph
Smyth, George Blood

OLIVE BRANCH LODGE, No. 269.
Tulare, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Glazebrook Nelson, Master, Alex. W oodfall Wheeler, Chaplain,
Tulare, Cal.
Ulysses Grant Cottle, Sen. Deac.,
James Joseph Mitchell, Sen. Ward., Granville Lewis Ferguson, Jun. D.;
DeWitt Talmage Frytrlire, Jun. W., Frank Adelbert Ellsworth, Mwshal,
Charles Fbtd Smithson, Treasurer, Charles Stephen Eaton, Steward,
James Wirtnard Davis, Secretary;
Orlando Alex. Mesler, Steward,
City Hall.
Albert Augustus Hall, Tyler.

Alford, Benjamin Michael
Allen, Arthur Bailey
Allen, Joseph
Anderson, Frank Elliott
Anderson, James Morrow
Anderson, Harvey George
Anderson, Samuel Bard
Abercrombie, Louis Le Bon
Bacigalupi, . Theo. ·
Beaver, Romanus Hess
Beck, .John Edwin
Beckwith, Harry Howe
Bering, Robert Eugene
Bigham, Walter Lafayette
Birkhead, John Nixon
Blodgett, Thomas DeHaven
Blythe, Samuel Allison
Boone, Thomas Lee
Brodt, Cecil Calvert, P. llil:.

MEMBERS:
Buehrer, Wm. Henry
Burnett, Clarence Martin
Burnett, George Carter
Busby, Francis Marion
Cartmill, Wooster Beaeh, P. M.
Chenoweth, Benjamin William
Childs, Harmon Lake
Chute, Harris Oberlih, P. M.
Clarke; Robert CS.trick
Clifford, .Tohn. Vincent
Cottle, Melvin Green
Cottle, Ulysses Grant, P. M.
Cross, 'fhomas
Davis, David Ernest
Davis, James Winnard, P. M.
Dresser, Roland Henry
Dresser, Wm. Christopher
Dunlap, Wm. Evered
F.aton, Chas. Stephen

Ellis, Frank Freeman
Elwood, John Henderson
Eldridge, Prank Marion
Ellsworth, Frank A., P. M.
Evey, Charles Lee
l<'erguson, Granville Lewis
Fetting, Albert Walter
Fothergill, William Alfred
Fowler, Alonzo Tully
Fox, Joseph George
Fraser, Alex.
J<'ry, Angus Eugene
Fry mire, De Witt Talmage
Gei~elhart, Karl Stephen
Giannini, Frank
Green, Francia' Harrison
Hall, Albert Augustus
Hall, Anson Parson
Hall, Rozell Edwin
Hamilton, Alfred Williant
Harris, Gurdon Uharles
Hartley, Benjamin Franklin
Hatch, Charles Melzer
Hayes, Frank Penn
Haney, Lewis Joseph
Hawkins, Homer Harrison
Henry, Charles Alex.
Higgins, William Alvey
Holford, Lyman David
Hunsaker, Irvin Burton
Hutchinson, Matthew Lee
Jarrard, Thomas Newton
Jones, Thomas Woodward
Kingsley, Lewis Edwin
Lawler, James Thomas
Lembke, August Joseph
Lewis, George Shepard
Undsay, Alfred
Martin, John
McMillan, Robert Thompson
Meador, John
Mesler, Orlando Alexander
Miller, Christian
Mitchell, James Joseph

Moore, James Salnuel
Moore, Stephen Baldy
N e1f, Andrew Daniel
Nelson, .Joseph Glazebrook, P. M.
Noyes, John Elmer
Nutting, David Wheeler
Oakford, Edward
Odell, Robert Adelbert
Outhier, Ward Clifford.
Pace, Henry Lee
Polley, Egbert Marion
Pratt, Clarence Francis
Premo, Walter Emile
Prie~t, Richard Turner
Ratliff, William Pierce, P. M.
Ray, Randolph
Richardson, Samuel
Rosenthal, Solomon H.
Roth, George Henry
Rumley, Albert Morton
Rilsh, t>li \•er Claytort
Russell, Calvin Louis, P. M.
Ryari, Elgie Jerome
Schoenemann, Charles Samuel
Schoenemann, r~ouis Emil
Sheppard, Thomas Armstrong
Shreve, Harry :Marston
Shultz, Joseph Franklin
Slauson, Charles Taylor
Smith, Alvin William
Smith, Charles Leipt
Smithson, Cha!'les Ford
Sprague, Charles Henry
Steininger, Edwarrl Andrew
Thompson, :F,al).k Adelbert
'fhcimpson, Thoi:nas Henkley
Thomson, Willis M erriman
Turner, Jesse Thomas
Warner, Joseph Henry
Westfall, John Christopher
Whaley, Alexander
Whaley, Henry, P. M.
Whaley, Robert
Wheeler, Alex. Woodfall

ROSTER

ROSTER

426
Whitmore, George Francis
Williams, William Payne
Wilson, John Lewis

Woody, John Harrison
Young, Robert James
Zartman, Geo. Washington, P. M.

-132
DIED:
Gleason, William Roderic
James, Arthur Augustin
Treadwell, James William

SNOW MOUNTAIN LODGE, No.

271.

Stony Ford, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding F'!ll Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Thomas McGahan, Master, John Manor Morris, Senior Deaco-n,.
Stony Ford, Cal.
Robert Henry Yearnshaw, Jun. D.,
Roy Thomas McGahan, S en. Ward., David Porter Ray, Steward,
George Lemuel Mason, Jun. Ward., Frank Wadsworth Hickok, Steward,
Daniel Joseph Westapher, Treas.,
Thomas Wesley Morris, Tyler.
Arthur Thomas Welton, S ecretary,
Stony Ford, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Moon, Alfred Sax
Alexander, Charles
Morris, John Manor, P. M.
Barnes, George Pettis
Morris, Thomas Wesley
Barrett, Wade
Newton, George Calvin, P. M.
Burgett, Richard Sisk
Ray, David Porter
Burrows, Leo Leroy
Sanber, Hulbert Herbert
Davis, Edward
Sites, John
Feuder, Johnson
Sites, William Franklin
Hickok, Frank Wadsworth
Stites, John Fernando
Howard, Charles Benjamin
Stites, Rufus Gideon, P. M.
Howard, James Wesley
Stites, Samuel Edwin, P. M.
Lovelady, William Jo.'!hua, P. M.
Walkup, Roy Lester
Mason, Geo. Lemuel
Welton, Arthur 'rhomas
Maupin, Jarrett
Westapher, Daniel Joseph
McGahan, George Thomas, P. M.
Yearnshaw, Robert Henry
_:_30
McKaig, Wilbur Addison

PASADENA LODGE, No.

427

272.

Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

Earl Warren Nay, Master,
186 E. Union St., Pasadena, Cal.
Harold Grant Simpson, Sen. Ward.,
William Frank Creller, Jun. Ward.,
Sherman Washburn, Treasurer,
Henry Ramel, Secretary,
Post Office, Pasadena, Cal.

Leon Carl Brockway, Chaplain,
Lucius Allen Parmele, Sen. Deacon,
Guy Emerson Halderman, Jun. Deac.,
Benjamin Harrison Swartz, Marshal,
John Wm. Fred'k Binderheim, Stwd.,
Harvey James Hayes, Steward,
George Rasmas Weaver, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ahlborn, Charles Harrey
Brenner, Frank Edward
Allen; Charles Emory
Brewster, William Clarence
Ai!in, Charles Arthur·
Bridges, Gilbert Lee
Allin, Thomas David
Briggs, Solon
Almond, Andrew
Bristol, Albert Oliver
Babbitt, Clarence Mason
Bristol, Sidney Albert
Bailey, Victor William
Brockway, Leon Caryl
Ballard, William Harrison
Brown, Charles Cowan
Barnewolt, Henry Fred 'k Justus Brown, Luther Grinnell, P. M.
Barnhart, Warren Earle
Brown, Patrick
Bartlett, Louis Azel
Buchanan, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Beregsasy, Julius
Buchanan, Frank Wilmer
Bettes, Adoniram Monroe, P. M.
Buchanan, .Jerome Robinson
Binderheim, John Wm. Fred'k
Bunnell, Clarence Udell
Black, James Robert
Bunnell, George Havila
Bland, Reginald
Burnham, Frank Dwight
Bliss, Ashley
Cadman, Arthur Bruce
Bliss, Guy St.anley, P. M.
Caffrey, William Witters
Bliss, Henry Frank
Oase, Edmund W.
Blodgett, William Preston
Chynoweth, Henry William
Blow, Richard Tunstall
Clark, Laureston Livingston
Boden, George Adam
Clarke, Jall)es
Bogardus, John Crary, Jr.
Clifford, Arthur Miller
Bonner, Lewis Henry
Coates, John
Boutelle, George Henry
Coffman, Joshua Stevens
Bowman, Robert Barkley
Cole, Galusha M.
Bradway, Judson Rutchin~on
Colema11, Theo. .
Braman, Francis Loomis
Collis, George Watson
Breiner, John
Congdon, Roscoe Paul, P. M.

428
Conger, Everett Lorentus
Conger, Howard Willis
Cook, Arthur Newell
Cook, ~'rank William
Cook, William 13.
Cooney, Thomas
Corbin, Fred
C01·bin, Janies M.
Coryell, Ger1rge R.
Coulstdn, John Bishop
Crane, Frarik Le Roy
CriHler, William Frank
Cruiclrnhank, J'alconer George
Cronkite, Henry Murray, P. M.
Crowell, Charles Frederick
Crowell, Weymouth
Crump, Edward Sisson
Cundy, William Albert
Davies, Edward William
DawRon, .Tames Porter
Davi.s, Pa11l Mr:bonald
Day, Charles Ambrose
Day, Clarence Parkman
DeHuff, Thomas Jefferson
Dickey, John Hugh
Dickson, Henry Leslie
Doolittle, Samuel Hostrter
Dorn, Joseph H.
Dorr, Charles Colby
Doud, William Manrllng
Drawbaugh, William
Dunn, William Henty
Dunsmoor, Albert Vandorus
Dwyer, William George
Edmondson, James, P. :M.
Edwards, Albert Ernest
Edwards, Simon Josiah
Edwards, William Bryant
Eisenauer, Miehe!
Ellsworth, Herbert Lee
Erickson, ,John .
Ericksson, Olof Frederick
Erusberger, Frank Armstrong
Fabian, Lionel John
·
Fansher, Samuel Wesley

ROSTER
Farrington, Winfield Oscar
Ferrand, Philip Emile
Fiske, Harold Albert
F1avie, Christian .Jacob
Fletcher, Frank Sylvester B.
Follett, Wallace
Folts, Herman Christian
Forbes, George Lewis
Foye; Frank Alonzo
Frankel, Ben
Fraty, Frank Luman
Fraser, Jefferson C.
Freeman, Oscar Otto, P. M.
Freeman, Lingard Clay
Frost, George Henry
Fuller, Charles Clifford
Funke, Edwin
Gammon, Ansel E.lder
Gard. William Brli.rlt
Gardner, Charle·s· Atldrew, P. M.
Garwood, Harvey Fl:onestus
George, Hetbert Edmund
Gibbings, Percy Nicholas
Gibbings, Walter Richard, P. M .
Gibson, Lester Henry
Giddings, Lawson Henry
Graham, George ·Le Cortrpfe
Gray, Frank Ben.ia't nin
Greely, Gebrge Augustus
Greer, LlOJd Lowther ·
Gregory, Charles Pickett
Grimes, Charles
Hahn, Eel. Franklin
Halderman, Guy Emerson
Hall, John Herbert, P. M.
Hall, Peter
Halsted, Johrt Franklin
Halsted, Richard Carlton
Hansen, Christian Martin
Hanson, Fre<l
Hanson, .Tohn
Harris, Frank Parks
Harris, Isaac
Harris, Leon Milton
Hart, Merton

ROSTER
Hartshorn, Jonathap Thomae
Hartwell, Calvin, F. M.
Hartwell, John Lovekf11
Hauser, William Thomas
If ayes, Harvey James
Hayes, Orren Henry, P. M.
Heffner, Fred M.
Henderson, Norma!I W.
Herrmann, Loui!l
H ess, Bruce Stanley ·
Hickmore, John William
Hill, Alfred Ju!iu!l
Hlavin, Louis
Hoag, Thomas Leggett
Rodding, Fred 'k Eustace
Hollander, Earle Munroe
Hollister, John I., Jr.
Holloway, Andrew
Holloway, George
Hoover, Geo . . Elliott
Hoover, William F.
Hopper, Joseph Edward
Ho.r re.ll, John Alexander
Hotaling, Henry C.
Hough, William Hall
Houseman, John Teris
Hovey, Frederick V.
Hughes, Charles
Hughes, James Barr
Hundrup, John Peter
Hupfer, George Philip, P. M.
Ingalls, George Robie
Israel, Joseph
Ives, Hubert Frank
.Tanes, Edmund Storrer
.Tarvis, Lucius Emerson
Johnson, Albert Ezekiel
.Tohnson, William Arthur
.Tones, Frank Ralph
Jones, George Danfortq
.Tones, Horace Bushnell
Jones, Lucien Corydon
.Tones, Willi11.!Il Asbury
Jung, .Tohn Frede:riek
Kennan, Robert Case

Kieft, William
Kiehl, Roy U.
Kienly, George Edward
Killgore, Albert RusEJell
King, Charles Lee
Klock, Aaron Robert
Knapp, Howard Lee
Kuder, George Franklin
Kuhn, Henry Gustave
Kyte, .Tohn M.
Lancaster, 'Edgar Freemont
Lancaster, Thoma!! :Morgan
Lane, David Courtney
Laspada, Joseph
L11.y ne, William Rohert
Leach, George A.
Lee, James Longbotham
Leech, Charles Ilolt
Leith, Leslie Wilkinson
IA vi ngst on, Benj amin
Lowman, Zachariah Henry
Lusby, John Randolph
Maiming, Charles Dewey
Manning, Frank ~obert
March, James Nelson
Margeson, William Fred
Marlowe, Thomas Clarence
Marsh, Norman Foote
Masters, Moses Marion
McAdam, Robert
McClelland, William
Mccreadie, Charles William
McCune, Floy d Glenn
McDonald', John
McDowell, James N elson
McDowell, Robert Sny<ler
McGregory, William Whitney
McKay, John
McKesson, L ewis Robertson
McLachlan, James
McPherson, James Cullen
Meacham, Albert
Menning, Charles Edw11.rd
Mercer, Albert, P. M.
Metcalf, Carl Ostrom

429

430
Metcalf, Richard Lee, P. M.
Meyer, Henry William
Michener, Edwin
Middleton, Harry Lewis
Milholland, Herbert Clinton
Miller, Harold Lester
Miller, Rollin Hurlburt
Miller, William Everett
Mills, Cyrus Lincoln
Moody, Charles Bates
Moody, Elmer Isaac, P. M.
Morrison, Charles James
Morrow, \Valter
Munroe, John Wm.
Murrell, William James
Myers, Charles K.
Meyers, Harry Eugene
Nay, Earl Warren
Nay, Edward Oscar, P. M.
Newell, Harley Foster
Newman, George Weller
Nickerson, Herman Mansfield
Nosworthy, William Samuel
Nuss, William Henry
Ogan, Frank Clarence
Ogier, Walter William
Osborne, Edwaru Sylvester
Packard, Elmer Charles
Packard, Harry Tillson
Paine, George Albert
Paine, Robert Edward
Pardee, Floyd Glenn
Parker, David .r:rnes
Parker, James Edward
Parmele, Lucius Allen
Pashgian, John Sarkis
Payne, George Arlando
Paynter, Harkless
Pearson, Charles James
Pearson, George William
Peaslee, John
Peck, Harry Graham
Peters, David Akard
Peters, Robert Edmond Lee
Pinkham, Robie Leamon

ROSTER

ROSTER
Plant, John Henry
Proctor, Thomas Hatch
.Proffer, George
Proudfoot, Robert
Pursell, Marion Weimer
Quast, Herman Theo.
Raftery, Michael Loftus
Ramel, Henry, P. M.
Rapp, Elmer Michael
Raynedord, Frank Lester
Reeves, William Henry, Jr.
Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Rice, Peter P., P. M.
Richardson, Warren Josiah
Robinson, Andrew Steen
Robinson, ]'rank C:orneliuB
Robinson, William John
Robmson, William Tates
Roche, Albert Wilson
Rogers, Wilmer Winthr9p
Rood, John Thompson
Roop, Clayborn Terry
Royce, Edward Horace
Rush, George Phillip
Rust, John Charles
Rutan, Harry D.
Saudham, Frederick, P. M.
Scherer, George
Schneider, William Charles
Schoeller, Henry Lewis
Scott, Calvin Luther
Seabury, John E.
Seaman, William W.
Sewall, Spencer Kirby
Sharp, Frank
Shaw, Albert
Shelhamer, Clarence Albert
Short, James Curtis
Simpson, Harold Grant
Simpson, Harry Emerson
Sisson, John Francis
Smith, Willis Hayes
Smiley, Sumner Francis
Smiley, Walter Carl
Snoddy, Jesse Edwin

Snlllluen, William Henry
Spencer, Alvah Jacob
Stan ham, Allan George
Stanley, Charles Newton
Starrett, Robert Henry
Steil, Peter
Stevens, Arthur Bush
Stevens, Charles Warren
Stevens, Grant Harrison
Stevenson, John Speer
Stickney, William Malcolm
Sti ver, Arthur Edward
Stokes, Frank
Stone, Leonard Allison
Strang, John Ryal
Street, Alvin Clyde
Sutliff, Virgil Renaldo
Swartzbaugh, John Cleveland
Taylor, Lewis Richard, P. M.
Taylor, Richard, P . M.
Taylor, William D.
Taynor, David Silas
Thomas, Cyrus Backus
'l'homas, .To8eph Andrew, Jr.
Thomson, Henry Martin
Thorns, Alfred
'fhurston, Albert Greene
Ticknor, Harry Montford
Tom, George Marion
Tracy, Coyle John
Tracy, James Dawson, P. M.
Turbett, Albert Steel
Turk, John
Turner, William D.
Tuttle, Henry Elihu
Bennett, Henry Graves
*Herman, Willian:i Frederick
Huff, Lueius Johnson
Bailey, Isaac
Bowdle, Isaiah
Clapp, William Billings

431

'I'yler, Eckford Dodds
Underwood,- Francis Marion
Vail, David
Vedder, William Henry
Vesper, Arthur Eugene
Vlier, Benjamin
Wadsworth, Hiram Warren
Wagner, John George
Wakeley, William Henry
\\' ard, Charles
Washburn, Sherman
Weaver, George Rasmas
Webster, Charles Townsend
Week, Charles Erastus
Welsh, Joseph
White, Edwin Matelanu
White, James Strothard
Wilcox, Heziekiah
Wilson, John Irwin
Windham, William Spencer
Withall, Sidney
Wood, Almon
Wood, Bertram .Glendive
Wood, Isaac Newton
Wood, William Henry
Woodard, Charles Churchill
Woodbury, Elmer Franklin
Woolen, Williain Amos
Wright, Austin Charles
Wright, Russell Clifford
Wright, Walter Savage
Yearian, Carl Hayes
Yohn, Charles Clayton
Young, Frank Nathan

-397

WITHDRAWN:
Hunter, William John
Misner, Harry Wells
Reed, George Warren
DIED:
Martin, C. S. (F. C.)
Rusac, Albert Edward
Wisehart, Riehmond

•Degrees conferred during the year.

482

ROSTER

ANCHOR LODGE, No. 273.
Comvton, Los Angeles County.
Stated ¥eetiµgs 1 second Monday in each Il!<Jll~J/..

ROSTER
Vance, James Joseph
Williams, Herbert Uhester
Williams, Howard Newton
Williams, Justus Herbert
Zadach, Gustav Adolph

Shamrak, William
Stahl, William
Stone, James William
Towne, Zera Asher
Trodd, Frederick

OFFICERS:
John Oliver Burris. Master,
Roscoe Clark Neel, Chaplain,
Compton, Cal.
James William Stone, Sen. Deac01ft1
Chas. Wilfred Musselman, Sm. W., Carl William Gray, Juniar Deacoti;
Edward Marcellus James, Jun. W., George Hebern Palmer, Steward,
Elmer Elsworth Elliott, Treasurer, Lyman Preston, Steward,
Clarence Anson Dickson, Secretary, Lewis Daetweiler, Tyler.
Compton, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Amlin, John L.
James, Edward M~rcellqs
Atchison, Joseph Andrew
Kincaid, Ralph Eugene
Bird, Abraham Calyj11
Larew, James Alex.
Briggs, Robert Redm~n
Leak, Francis A.
Brownsteim, William
Lewis, Harry
Burris, John Oliver
Lord, Alex. Napoleon
Burritt, Charles Lewis
Martin, Peter P.
Camp, Arthur James
Mayo, Harmon Jefferson, P. M.
Catey, George Washingtqq
Mayo, James Monroe
Conklin, John Raymond
Mayo, 'l'homas Clay
Copeland, John Charles
Mayo, William Riley
Crum, Dwight Mp,rk, l'. M.
Mealey, King
Daetweiler, Lewis
Mercer, Preston ~~ese, P. M.
Davis, William Seymour
Miller, Alvin Washingtoll
Decker, John
Miller, Erwin
Dickison, Clarence An~o~, P. M. ·Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Morton, John Jay, P. M.
Dimmler, Josep)l Henry,
M.
Duke, James M.
Mu9Selman, Charles Wilfred
Neel, Roscoe Clark
Edwards, Wright Watson
North, Robert Adolph
Elliott, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Frew, Will L.
Norton, John Bryant, P., M .
Gillingham, Harry
Oates, James Albert
Gunby, Edward Smith
Palmer, George Hebern
Proctor, James Buchanan
IT askin, Ralph Courtland
lieqnoldH, Isaac ,Johnson, P. M.
Haynes, Emmett Sylvester
Rickman, Elvin
Holcombe, Arthur J..owell
Iftiger, Hugo Julius
Rickman, Thomas Mer~itt
Schildwachter, Fp:deric)i D.
Imbler, Walter Webster
Jacobs, John Franklin
Schildwachter, George Henry

:r.

Boynton, David Greenlief

-!33

~68

WI'l'HDRA WN:
Cox, Robert Lee

SUSPENDED fOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kratzer, Benjamin Richard
DIED :
Smith, Richard James

ARROYO LODGE, No. 274.
Arroyo Grande, San Luis Obispo County.
l::ltated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
R obert Lee Goodin, Maste1·,
Thomas H. Keown, Chaplain,
Arroyo Grande, Cal.
Clarence F . Denham, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur Wheelock Hawkins, Sen. W., James D. Morgan, Junior Deacon,
Robert M. Plympton, Jun. Warde1i, Benjamin E. Short, Marshal,
George Pitt' Ide, Treasurer,
Clare Shipman Noble, Steward,
John William Gilliam, Secretary,
Adam Brown, Steward,
Arroyo Grande, Cal.
Arthur Leroy Hawkins, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Denham, Maurice
Dower, William Henry
Gale, DeWitt Clinton
Gilliam, John William
Goodin, Robert Edgar Lee
Grieb, George
Grimes, Robert A.
tt:awkins, 4-rthur Wheelock
Heinrich, Johannes Richard, P. M.
Ide, Bela Clinton, P. M.
Ide, George Pitt, P. M.
.Tones, Elmore Delwin
.Tones, Merle McCrary
Keown, Thomas H.

Alexander, Siegfried
Ball, Jessie Combs
Bakeman, George Augustus
Banks, Elwin James
Beckett, John Archer
Beckett, Lemuel James
Bickell, Allan Leslie, P. M.
Brieger, Adolph
Brown, Adam, P. M .
Clark, Charles Sammis
Cook, Robert Mahlon
Conrad, Francis Howard
Conrad, William Arthur
Denham, Clarence Freemont, P. M.
28

ltOSTElt

ROSTER

434

Plympton, Robert Monrce
Poole, James
Poole, William Clar:
Quaresma, Antonio Silva
Reinike, John Ralph
Righetti, Henry F.
Scharer, Edward A.
Schwab, John C.
Short, Benjamin English
Silva, William
Squires, Clement C.

Kinney, John Seth
Linn, Howard M.
Miller, John Nicholas, P . M.
Morgan, James Depp
Morris, William Austin
Munger, Clarence Hayes
Nicholson, John R.
Noble, Clare Shipman, P. M.
Parrish, John Edgar
Phillips, Adolph
Phillips, Samuel Sampson
Phoenix, Fred James
Cook, William Thomas

-Ill
WITHDRAWN:
Mayer, Gerharil

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.
Oakdale, Stanislaus County.
State<l Meetings, Tuesday of 0 1· next precccling Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Richard B. Davidson, Chaplain,
Dorcey Edgar Lee, Master,
Elmer Ray Clark, Seti. Deacon,
Oakdale, Cal.
Wright Shovelton Boddy, Sen. W., Irwin Gladstone Blankenship, J. D.,
Charles H. Barden, J1111ior Warden, George Jefferson Bentley, Marshal,
John Henry Clark, Steward,
Charles Calvin Wood, Treasurer,
John William Ferguson, Stewqr4,
Alfred B. Haslacher, Secretar.y,
Ebenezer Foster Crabtree, Tyler.
Oakdale. Cal.

B arden , Charles IL
Bardo, Levi
Barnett, Derby Hutc:Qington
Benson, Robert Gray
Bentley, George Jefferson
Bentley, Ison Hilliard
Bentley, Richard Harrison
_Blankenship, Irwin Gladsfon1o
Boddy, Wright Shovleton
' Booth, James Godfrey
Broughton, James Richard
Bratten, Thomas Wilson
Carson, Thomas Masilina .
Clark, Elmer Ray

MEMBERS:
Clark, John Henry
Coley, John Ambrose
Collins, George William
Crabtree, Ebenezer Foster
Davidson Richard Breckinri"dge
Dorsey, Eppa Sydnor
Endicott, Elmer M.
Ferguson, John William
Gilbert, Amos Lawrence
Gilbert, Irving Clarence
Gilbert, Lindley Dodge
Hall, William Solon
Hamilton, William. Ellsworth
Haslacher, Alfred B.

Heiskell, Jefferson Davis
Hennemuth, John Loui1, P . M.
Hess, George Washington
Huston", Norman C.
,Johns, Thomas Williams
Jones, Andrew Jackson
.Jorgensen, Peter
Kahn, Joseph H.
Laughlin, Francis W illiam
r,eclert, Sebastine Theo.
Lee, Darcey Edgar, P. M.
Leitch, Arthur Lee
Mann, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Martin, Frederick Jamee
McKinlay, William
Myers, Frederick Henry
Myers, Sirlney George
Mulroy, John Henry
Pfarr, George Nicholas

435

Prouty, Joel Leople
Prouty, Lee Earl
Rickart, David, P. M.
::fohu idt, Paul Frank
Stearns, Geo. Francis
Tandrow, Joseph
Thompson, James Goodwin
Travelli, Joseph
Tulloch, Earl Patterson
Wann, Silas M.
Weaver, Henry Edward
Westerman, Pleasant Bailey, P. M.
White, Howard C.
Wigley, George Washington
Wigley, Jefferson
Wood, Alonzo Thomas
Wood, Charles Calvin, P. 1\1..C.
Woodit, William Henry
Yonng, J. Audley
--66 ·

SELMA LODGE, No. 277.
Selma, Fresno County.
tihted Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Jo·fm Jay Vanderburgh, Master,
Joshua W . Brown, Senior Deaco11,
Selma,. Cal.
. Ernest Claude Laughlin, Ju11. Deac.,
William Robert Stammers, Jr., S. W., Manueal Vincent Marshal
J ames Madison Montgomery, J. W., J ames Harvey Eddy, ste-i:ard,
Herman J oseph Lohman, Treasurer, George Benjamin Phillips, Steward,
lVIark A lvin Sawrie, Secretary,
George William Russell, Tyler.
Selma, Cal.
MEMBERS: .
Albrecht, Albert
Borchers, Herman Henry
Allen, Amos .Tudah
Bronson, Oscar Edward
Allen, George William
Brown, Joshua W.
Allen, Parris, P. M".
Burton, Cornelius N.
Armstrong, James
Byrne, Joseph B.
Bachtold, Christian
Carroll, Lewis Crawford
Barnwell, Robert Wm.
Cooper, Christian C.
Berry, Clarence J,
Connacher, Clayton Le Roy
Bixter, Adam
Cutler, Herbert Nelson
Blae.kma~, Charles M.
Cohn, Samuel

436

ROSTER

Cook, Henry Taylor
Phillips, George Becton
Cooke, William Rutledge
Poulsen, Edward
Cox, Jesse Sergent
Pugh, Edward M.
Damron, George A.
Pugh, James Vercoe
Davies, John Foster
Pugh, John S.
Dill, E. S.
Robinson, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Dorman, Herbert Orval
Rose, James Edwin
Drew, Fred, P. M.
Rosenberger, Guy Walker
Drew, George Freeman
Russell, George William
Dusy, Chester, P. M.
Sawrie, Mark Alvin, P. M.
Edgar, William Taylor
Schuwendt, Charles
Elliott, Charles Thomas
Scott, George William
Emlet, Charles Wesley
Shafer, William Herb.irt
Foulke, Edward Forrest
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Gibbs, Roy Crittenden, P. M.
Skaggs, James A.
Glenn, Walter Boyd
Smith, Albert Anderson
Gray, Joel T.
Sobaje, Garabed
Hinkson, Richard Summers, P. M. Stammers, William Robert
Hofoomb, Clyde Lafayette
Stammers, William Robert, Jr.
Hoover, Preston P.
Stearns, Orville W.
Horn, Thomas Ewell
Steinwand, Albert Rudolph
Howell, Lawson Joel
Steinwand, Oscar William
Hudson, Julian Wiley
Townsend, Eli Sheridan
Kilburn, Charles Menzo
Townsend, Isaac M.
Lambert, Charles Leslie
•rurner, Tneodore E.
Lambert, Edward Frank
Vanderburgh, John Joy
Lnughlin, Ernest Claude
Vincent, George Paul
Lowis, Edward Adolph
Vincent, Manuel, P. M.
Lohman, Herman Joseph, P. M.
Wagner, James Daniel, P. M.
:M:atlo~k, William
Wagner, James Holliday, P. M.
McConneli, Samuel J.
Wells, Hiram J.
Mitehell, James William, P. M.
Westhover, Martin H.
Mitchell, John Lair, P. M.
Wild, Mount C.
Montgomery, James M.
Wiley, John L.
Morris, Charles
Williams, Fred H.
Murrny, Charles F .
Wood, Charles Robert, P. M.
Noble, Shelby Hampton
Wootan, John Thomas
Pallidini, Benjamin Ronaldo
Wright, Flavius Jacob
Peters, Henry Frank
Wright, Jacob Henry
Peterson, Elmer Christian
Yost, William Antone
-100.
Powell, .James D.

WITHDRAWN:
Ricketts, Wallis S.
DIED:

Compton, Warren

Smith, James C.
Snodgrass, David S.

ROSTER

437

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 278.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS :

James Gustave Scarborough, Master, Arthur Brookman, Chaplain, ·
215 Coulter Bldg., Los Angeles. Robert Harold Bacon, Sen. Deacon,
Caleb Amos Yarnell, Sen. Warden, Herbert Ross Kells, Jun. Deacon,
William Henry Harrison, Jun. W., Allan Horton Spencer, Marshal,
Robert Wankowski, Treasurer,
Cyru~ Wm. Grant, Steward,
Warren Edward Rowley, Secretary, Ewald Edward Selph, Steward,
Masonic Temple, Pico and Figu- Adolph J . Maas (of Mizpah No. 378),
eroa Streets.
Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Adelbert Starr, P. M.
Barnes, Harvey Stevena
Abbott, Frederick William
Barnwell, Walter Galt
Adams, Hugh White, Jr.
Barton, Thomas William
Ainsworth, Frank Kenley
Belcher, Henry Arthur
Alexander, Harrison Babcock
Benz, William
Allen, Dane Lorenzo
Berg, Christian Gottlieb
Alles, Fred Lind
Bergen, John Grenville
Amend, William Ambrose
Berger, Andrew S.
Anderson, Charles Sherman, P . M. Bernhardt, Albert Martin
Anderson, William .1ohn
Bessing, Theo.
Andrews, Chas. Gordon
Bicknell, Frederick Thompson
Armstrong, George
Biehl, Nicholas
Bierlein, Frtideri~k George
Arnold, Jesse Houston
Arnold, William Ralph
Bilicke, Albert Clay
Ashton, Charles
Billington, Theophilus
Blaisdell, Mylon John
Auf<lemkamp, Henry
Austin, John Comeby Wilson
Blakeley, James Oscar
Bacon, Robert Harold
Bleecker, Henry Lloyd
Bagley, Arthur Eugene
·Bloeser, John Condit
Bailie, Samuel Girvin
Blohm, .John
Baird, William Smillie
Bon:filio, Nicholas
Baker, Charles Minton
Boone, Andrew Jackson
Baker, Fred Linnel
Boone, Blair Ford
Baldwin, Cornelius Vanoy
Booth, Fra11-.k lin
Baldwin, George Everett
Booth, Willis Holyoake
Boothe, Stephen Sterling
Barlow, Walter Jarvis
Barnard, Frank Steele
Bordner, Isaac
Barnes, Fr:ink Amos
Boshyshell, Edward Parris

ROSTER
Bosler, Thompson, P. M.
Boucher, Joseph
Bowen, John Wesley
Bowker, Walter King
Boynton, Fred Wesley
Bradbeer, James Hudson
Bradish, A very Jackson
Braly, Harold Hyde
Braly, John Hyde
Brauer, Adolph Karl
Brent, Edward James
Brink, John Edward
Bristol, Frank Osborn
Brock, George Alex.
Brode, Alex. Charles
Brode, Walter Charles
Bronson, Roy DeWitt
Brookman, Arthur, P. M.
Brown, Fred Winfield
Brown, Henry Lee
Brown, Walter Elbridge
Bryant, Norman Lorenzo
Bryon, David Parker
Bryson, Charles William
Bryson, Frank
Buchanan, Charles Foster
Bullard, Frank Dearborn
Bullis, William Shufelt
Bumiller, Arthur William
Bundrem, Howard Gr-a ham
Bunnell, Charles Eugene Dewey
Burgwald, Hugo Mathias
Burnett, Frank Wilbur
Burns, John W.
Butler, Sidney Aleut
Butler, Sidney Tortelus
Cake, George Myers
Callahan, Walter
Callender, Harry Rea
Campbell, Charles
Campbell, Edward Franklin
Campbell, John Mis
Cannon, John Stevens
Carlson, Henry
Carr, Joseph ·Ehner

Cass, Alonzo Beech e~
Case, Charles Hempstead
Catey, Stacey Francis
Chaffey, Andrew McCord
Chandler, Harry
Chappelear, Henry Stew11.rt
Chase, Lucius Kurtz
Christopher, John Francis
Church, Benjamin Franklin
Clark, Harold Francis
Clark, Oliver Perry
Clarke, Frank Brainerd, Jr.
Clason, Carl Axel
Clllaver, John Mordecai
Cleaver, William
Coberly, Joseph Edward
Cochran, Robert Thomas
Cogswell, William Gardner
Cole, Elmer Ellsworth
Cole, Henry Edmond
Coleman, Albert Loring·
Coleman, Robert William
Colton, George Fredric
Conant, George Frederick
Conklin, Will Hall
Conner, Edward Hurlbut
Conner, Luther Lucien
Conrey, Nathaniel Parrish
Coomber, Henry William
Cooper, Alfred su·nley
Cooper, Frank J., P. M.
Copp, Andrew James, ,Jr.
Copp, Joseph Pettee
Copp, Willie.m Whipple
Cornish, Herbert Lemu1il, P. M.
Corwin, Carl .Toseph
Corwin, Wm. Bassett
Coulter, Thoma'!! .Teft'erson
Cox, Emit J.
Crabill, Simeon Wolford
Crandall, Shannon
Crist, Royal Herbert
Crozier, James All!:tander
Culver, Alex. Stephens
Cummings, Barthol<ltnew Pe'ter

ROSTER
Cunningham, John Calvin
Curran, John Franldin
Currier, Edward W_a rren
Dahl, Christian James
Dake, George Daniel
Darling, Charles Edward
Daum, William Howard
Davids, Mark Abraham
Davidson, Paul Beck
Davis, Harvey
Davie, Webster
Day, James Anderson
Day, Robert Verne
Decker, Charles William
De Garmo, Ellwood
De Nubila, Frank Mario
De Nubila, Rocr.o Carmen
Dennis, Albert Lee
Detmers, Frederick Wm. Adolph
Dickson, Clarence Bishop
Dillin, John
Dixon, Charles Clark
Doan, .Joseph Beal
Dodge, Shailor Calver
Donnell, John Tilden
Dorris, Charles Wesley
Dow, Herbert Gruby
Dryer, George William
Duffie, John Jefferson
Duffill, Harry
Durkee, Lafayette
Dyer, Trusten Polk, P. M.
Earle, Lucien
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Edmonds, Glenn Denique
Edwards, John William
Edwards, Leoland Cloise
Eichelberger, Harry Martin
Eikenbary, Sidney Joseph
Eisenmayer, Walter Graeser
Ellis, Henry Bertrand
Elsom, Robert Wesley
Ely, Tayler Lewis
Emerson, Fred Lee
Emery, Robert Dudley

Ennis, Charles Wesley
Esdor,' William Henry
Everett, Newton Baldwin
Fairchild, ,Tohn Anthony
Falvella, John
Farnsworth, Willis Cleveland
Fenner, Fred Cooper
Ferbert, .John C.
F ernald, Benjamin Walter
F erris, Harvey Olmsted
Feuerborn, Edward Randolph
Field, Benjamin Franklin
Fiscus, Joseph
Fiscus, Marshall Elsworth
Fisher, Donnell George
Fitch, George Atkins, P. M.
Fonl, Lewis Eugene
Forrester, Edmund Arnold
Forrester, Frank Linnaeus
Forrester, Fred Warren
Foshay, James A., P. G. M.
Fox, Harry Davis
Fox, .Toseph Cliffe
Franklin, Edward Joseph
Fre<lericks, John Donovan
Freeby, Mordecai Paul
French, John Rollin
Friedgen, Harry Raymond
Fryman, Harmon Christian
Fuller, William Harrison
Fulton, Frank
l<'ulton, Ira Marion Dudley
Gadden, Edward Tad
Getz, Henry Augustus
Geissler, Edward August
Gibson, Leo LaForest
Gibson, Thomas
Gifford, Charles Levi
Gillespie, Mathew McGill
Goehring, John George
Golding, Frederick Earnest
Gordon, Christ-Opher McMath
Gordon, Frank He:11.ry
Gragg, Robert Fennally
Graham, Edward Hewitt

439

440

ROSTER

Granicher, Oswald
Grant, Cyrus William
Gray, Marion Robert
Green, Luther Herbert
Greene, Charles Gill
Greppin, Ernest Henry, P. M.
Grundy, }'rederick
Gude, Albert Lawrence
Guy, Ivester Clark
Hagan, Ralph
Hagen, William
Hall, Cornelius Alfred
Halls, Gilbert Powrie
Hamlin, Fred Hanniable
Hammell, Delbert Cool
Hammond, Watts
Hammond, Wm. Tecumseh Sher.
Hanna, Harry Rogers
Hanshue, Harris Mathewson
Harlan, George, P. M.
Harrison, George Wright
Harrison, Henry Oziah
Harrison, William Henry
Harshman, Alva Earl
Harvey, John
Haskell, Eugene Craddock
Haupt, Paul
Hauser, Henry
Havemann, William
Hawkinson, Oke William
Hayward, Henderson
Hazard, Geo. Emmott
Hazzard, Ira G.
Heber, James Earle
Heffner, Robert Armstrong
Heinemann, Bernard Henry
Heller, Charles Clinton
Hench, William Allison
Henderson, Horace Hovey
Henderson, John Blanchard
Henderson, John William
Hensley, Sylvester Peter
Herroll, Fred Irwin
Herron, Rufus Hills
Hess, Orlando Boyd

Hicks, Walter Thomas
Hill, Randolph William
Hillyard, Cassius Edward
Hinchcliffe, Chas. Warren
Hines, Fred Amos, P. M.
Hirtz, Nathaniel Frederick
Hoagland, Wm. Wyckoff
Houge, Charles William
Hoffman, Marcus Irven
Holabird, Harry Gillette
Holliday, Wm. HarriB"On
Hollingsworth, Clarence Binford
Hollingsworth, William Irving
Holman, Claude Stonum
Hornbeck, Charles, P. M.
Housh, William Harvey ·
Hovis, Harry Henderson
Hubbard, William Lewis, P. M.
Hum, James Winnard
Humphreys, Charles Harkness
Hunsaker, Lycurgus
Hunt, William Montague, Jr.
Hutchinson, }~dwin Herbert
Hyatt, Henry Lamb
Ingalese, Rieilard
Ives, Frederick Franklin
Jack, Harry Meikle
J ackins, Harry
Jacobsen, Christian Frederick
•Tacobson, Frithiof Gustavous
.Janeway, George Harold
Jeffries, Wm. 'Parrish, P. M.
Jenkins, John .Joseph .
Johannsen, Fnnklin George
.Tohnson, Edward Purnell
Johnston, John Milton
Johnston, Nob!" Ellis
.Tones, Alanson Halden
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Frank Massie
Jones, Henry Spencer
Jones, John Taylor
Jones, Mark Gordon
Jones, Mattison Boyd
Jones, Richard Girard

ROSTER
J ones, Robert Freeman
Jordon, William Francis
Kardell, Benjamin Franklin
Keller, Will Edward
Kelly, Richard Wash.
Kells, Herbert Ross
Kelsey, Arthur Louis
Ken:p.y, Robert Wolfenden
Kimberly, Charles Wallace
King, James Seaman
Kinney, Arthur Wilson
Kirkland, Derwentwater
Kitchen, George Washington
Kitchin, Philip
Kohlmeier, Benjamin
Koster, Eugene Will
Koyer, Arthur Shepparu
Kramer, Henry Jacob
Krueger, (Jharles George
Kubach, Christian John
Kunow, Charles August
Kyte, George Irwin, P. M.
Lamb, Porter Emerson
Lammert, Fred William
Langdon, Frederick Sylvester
Laughlin, Herbert Sisson
Laughlin, Homer, Jr.
Laux, Carl
Laws, William Henry
Ledbetter, William McKee
Lee, Bradner Wells
Lehman, Charles Joseph
Leonard, James Floyd
Lewis, Stanley Robert.
Lindley, Hervey, P. M.
Lindley, Samuel Kingston
Lindley, Walter
Logan, George Burket
Long, James William, P. M.
Longyear, Willis Douglas
Lovett, William Watson, P. M.
Lowsley, Oswald Swinney
Lnckel, Louis
Lunuy, Eclwin Arthur
Lynch, Ira Owen

Lyon, Philip Henry
MacDonald, Jesse Juan
Mackay, George Grant
MacKellar, William Malcolm
MacMaster, James
Macnab, Arthur Campbell
Macready, Benjamin
Maeder, William Richard
Major, George Jefferson
Malke, Edward James
Mallman, Leonard Herman
Malone, John
Manuel, Franklin F.
Markliam, Monroe
Marsh, Robert
Mart, James Jackson
Martin, Austin Oliver
Mason, Oliver Arland
Mathews, Bryant
Mathews, Frank Berry
Mathuss, Zack Duncan
Matson, Wilfred Hosford, Jr.
McAllister, William Thomas
McArthur, William Taylor
McClurkin, William John
McCollough, Vernon Clare
Mccomas, Frederick Bernard
McDermott, Michael Jefferson
McFie, Maynard
Mcintosh, William P .
McKee, Milton
McLean, Daniel Alexander
McMillan, Basil James
McMinn, Robert Bruce
Mc'Minn, William Wallace
McNeely, James Thomas
Mead, Willis Howard
Medlar, James Abraham
Mercereau, John D.
Merrill, Joseph Lane
Merwin, Andrew Homer
Meijsmore, Frank Hiram
Middlecoff, Walter Whitefield
Middleton, Ralph Dodsworth
Miles, Charles Sweeting

441

442

ROSTER

Miles, Nelson Appleton
Millar, David Servis
Millard, Jay Bird
Miller, Charles Francis
Miller, Frank Lee
Miller, Nicholas N.
Mitchell, George
Mitchell, John Shepard
Mitchell, Robert
Moiso, James Hoy
Morgan, Charles Ford
Morgan, Franklin Llewellyn
. Monlux, John B.
Monnette, Orra Eugene
Mott, Albert Clarke
Moultrie, Lloyd Walker
Mueller, Earl Walter, P. M.
Mueller, Oscar Charles
Murphy, William Warren, P. M.
Murray, Alexander Wilson
Mushet, Edward Robert
Myrick, Nathaniel Willis
Nagel, George Edward
Nance, Benj. Franklin
Nalierth, Jacob
Neel, Wherry Elden
Nelles, Frederick Charle!
Nelson, Arthur Julius
Nelson, Franz Otto
Neubauer, Frank
Newell, Henry Temple
Niven, William
Noble, George Oscar
Nourse, Charles Ore4
Nutt, Edmund Beach
0 'Donnell, Thom.as· Arthur
Off, John William Arnold
0 'Reilly, Thomae William
Orme, Henry Sayre, P. G. M.
Osborn, John
Osborne, Henry Zena11, P. M.
Ottis, George Matencius
Owen, Frank Dale
Owens, Madison TownBend, P. M.
Pahl, Peter Christian Heinrich

Parker, Calvin Ebenezer
Parker, George Edmund
Parson, Loxley Rhees
Parsons, Arthur Cline
Parsons, Arthur Mervil
Pascoe, Thomas
Patterson, Wilson Campbell
Paulding, James Francis
Pauly, Edward Stanley
Pauly, Frederick Nye, P. M.
Peairs, Howard Allen
Pease, Sherman
Peck, Daniel Gager
Peckham, Charles Vassar
Pendell, Charles Elisha
Percy, Harry Lord
Petty, James Millard
Pfaffinger, Frank Xavier
Phillips, Lee Andrew
Phillips, William
Pierce, Darwin Willson
Pither, Ernest Edward
Plummer, Amos Wes ton
Potter, Charles Guy
Preston, William Holyoke
Prince, George Henry
Probert, Frank Holman
Putnam, Charles Edward
Rapp, William
Rayburn, Frederick Wallingford
Raze, Arthur Eldridge
Read, Harry Merton
Read, William Charles
Ready, Russell Wilbert
Rebard, Eugene Mays
Rector, Robert Lee
Reed, Willis Johnson
Reppy, Roy Valentine
Reynolds, Charles Frederick
Rice, Justus William
Rice, Robert Lincoln
Richardson, William Weise
Richert, Arno Segin
Robbins, Albert Ch11rles
Robersnn, ,John Calhoun

ROB'IER
Smith, Charles A.
Robertson, Ernest
Smith, Conrad
Robinson, Ray D.
Smith, Cornelius Emery
Rogers, Albert Clark
Smith, Horace Osbun
Rommel, Edward David
Smith, Norman Eugene
Rounsavelle, Lafayette Small
Smith, William Ferdinand
Rowley, Edwin Silas
Smurr, John Randolph
Rowley, Quintin ,John
Snead, James Emery
Rowley, Warren Edward, P. M.
Snowden, Joshua Hazelrig
Royse, Jeremy
Snyder, Meredith Pinxton
Rozell, David Rightmire
Somarindyck, George
Ruddy, George Drake
Spaulding, Frank Leverett
Russell, Howard Marvin
Spence, William Glenn
Ryus, Harmon David
Spencer, Allan Horton
Sage, Orrin Grant
Spencer, Edward Byron, P. M ..
Sale, Howard Malcolm
Spinks, Andrew Moseley
Sargent, Edwin William
Spinks, Moseley Enoch
Scarborough, James Gustave
Scarborough, William Byron, P. M. Spinks, Wailace ltumphrey
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Schaefer, Henry
Spruance, Lewis J. Clauson
Schaffer, Jacob, Jr.
Squire, Arthur Moseley
Schleicher, Adolf Burgess
Stanley, Edwin Kimble
Schmidt, Edward
Stanton, Joseph Leighton
Schneider, George Ilenry
Stanton, Erastus James
Schoder, Howard Joseph
Starkweather, Charles Henry
Schoder, Joseph
Starr, Joseph Lee
Scott, Henry
Starr, Stanley S.
Seager, Howard White
Seaman, William Washington, P. M. Stephens, William
Stephens, William Dennison
Seeley, James We!!ley
Stern, David Saumel
Selby, Lemuel Julian
Stetson, Albert L.
Selph, Ewald Edward
Stuart, Ralph
Shaffer, George Bruce
Stevens, Roy
Shannon, William Alexand!lr
Stewart, Victor Baldwin
Sharpe, John
Stilwell, Charles William
Shaw, Hartley
St~me, Kenneth Arnold
Shaw, Lucien
Strasburg, Edward
Sherer, Edward T.
Summers, James Alex.
Sherer, Henry Emanuel
Swaine, Edgar Lacy
Sherman, Moses Hazeltine
Tarr, Nathan Winship
Sherwood, William Franklin ~
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steele
Shettler, Leon Thorp
Taylor, Arthur
Shives, Alexander
Taylor, Horace Noble
Sinsabaugh, Simpson McC.
Taylor, Nelson
Small, Frank Hartley, P. M.
Teed, Freeman Golding, P. M.
Smart, George Joseph

H3

ROSTER
ROSTER
Tehen, John Theo.
Thomas, Roger Ray
Thomson, Robert Mossman
Thom;ison, Chester Weaver
Thompson, Harry Oliver
·
Thompson, Omer Cones ·
Thorpe, Lewis Sanborn
Thorpe, Willard Gardner
Tomeney, Peter Patrick
Treen, Rupert de George
Trobeck, John August
Trueworthy, John Wesley
Truitt, William Lowry
Tungate, Mark Twain
Upright, Oscar
Urmston, John Keck
Vail, Nathan Russell
Vail, Walter Lennox
Valentine, William Lucas
Van Brunt, William
Van Doren, John Suydam
VanNorman, Edgar Vernon
Vaughn, John William
Veasey, Frank Burr
Vieira, George Joseph
Von Homeyer, Albert
Waddington, William
Wade, Reuben Alex. Slavin
Wadhams, William .Jesse
Walker, Julius Randolph
Walker, Samuel Millard
Walker, Vincent Leo.
Walrath, George Byron
Walton, Charles Strong

W ankowski, Robert
Warden, Charles Dusten
Watson, George Samuel
Weaver, William .Kennedy
Webber, Charles Sumner
Weid, Otto Johannes Munk
Weller, Dana Reid, P. G. M.
Wetterauer, Andrew Peter J.
Whaley, Francis John
Wheeler, Edgar True
Wheeler, Horace Marcellus·
White, Charles Henry
White, James William
White, John Edward
Whittier, Mericos Hector
Wier, Charles
Wigmore, George Herbert
Wilkie, Ferdinand Starr
Willard, Charles Dwight
Williams, Albert Scudamore
Williams, Joseph Franklin
Wilson, Erasmus
Wilton, George Robert
Wood, Francis Gideon
Woodside, Calvin Elbridge
Woodward, William John
Wright, Gilbert Sol
Wuerker, Otto Leon
Yarnell, Burton Fleming
Yarnell, Caleb Amos
Young, Jacob Clark
Young, ·John William
Zaiser, Lewis G.
Zaiser, Oscar Henry
-664

WITHDRAWN:
Fiscus, Marshall

Thompson, John Scott
Vance, De Courcey

445

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bartholowsky, Johannes
Keohane, John William
Dutcher, Claude Elmer
Locke, Charles Edwin
Fosdick, Archibald Morris
Marden, Leo Wallace
Harris, Murray McCheyne
Marden, Reo Burnham
Hart, John Wicks
Newman, Emil
Hathaway, Charles Frederick
Richardson, Joseph
Hubbard, Ralph Beatty
Winston, James Wallace
Jones, Everett Gaylord
Wood, Samuel Grosvenor

Allen, Charles Carroll
Braden, Frederick Bassett
Drought, Robert
Dupuy, James Robert

PIED:
Henderson, William Augustus
Henry, James Wheaton
Lebus, Prentice
Moulton, Horatio Frank
Piedmont, Louis

HANFORD LODGE, No. 279.
Hanford, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ernest John Hummel, JI.faster,
James Curtiss Ensign, Chaplain,
Hanford, Cal.
Arthur Judson Young, Sen. Deacon,
Samuel Vincent Hawley, Sen. Wa.i·d., D. Bunn Rea, Junior Deacon,
Loyd Harvey Brown, Jun. Warden, Sam~el Whi~son r:au, Marshal,
Stephen Bright Hicks, Treasurer,
Archibald Dils Driver, Steward,
Walter Moore, Secretary,
Benn Duffield. Steward,
Hanford, Cal.
Henry Edward Reuck, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brown, Lloyd Harvey
Ayers, Amos Melzar, P. M.
Barney, Fred Milton
Brown, William Herbert
Barton, Herman Dany
Bryans, William
Bernstein, William Francis
Bullock, James Lyndon
Bingham, Charles Franklin, P. M. Butler, Chester Orville
Booker, Sanford
Butler, Rudolph Rey
Budinger, Philip Leidy
Boudreau, Young Hubert
Bowden, James Richard
Charles, William Bryant
Bowden, John Benjamin
Chittenden, Lyman Sylvester
Cl.Y;,,man, Archibald Yell
Brento.n, Harry Vallejo
Brown, Harry Pfister
Clock, LouiR David

446

Clow, Ora T.
Cooper, Silas Halsey
Cosper, Elias Truman
Crawshaw, Joh11 Allen
Crowell, Abner Buell
Crowell, Chester Charles
Cross, Charles Marion
Cunningham, Franeis, P. M.
Davis, Isaac
Dillon, Thomas Fuller
Downing, Robert Jesse
DuffiE>ld, Benn
Dunham, Lewis C.
Edwards, Sherman
Ensign, James Curtiss, P. M.
Farmer, Lyman Dwight
Farmer, Milton Thomas
Foster, Ernest Charles
Foster, Willett Sudds
Fowler, George Oliver
Furby, Charles Edwin
Furby, Charles Edwin, Jr.
Furby, John Charles
Goodrich, George Edwin
Goldsmith, Rutledge· Loyd
Gregory, Roscoe Clay
Gurnee, Bruster Smith
Haist, Charles Augustus
Hall, John Ewell, P. M.
Hall, Samuel Whibon, P. M.
Hammond, Arthur F.
Hawley, Samuel Vincent
Heathcote, Rennie James
Henderson, Frederick Miner
Hendricks, Henry Thomas
Herrod, John
Hicks, Stephen Bright
Hickman, James Oscar
Hight, Frank Robert, P. M.
Hobler, Charles James
Hobson, Rufus Asl1bery
Hochstrasser,. R,udolf
Hord, Robert 'l'homas
Howard, William Harrison
Howland, Clarence Sears

ROSTER

RO.S TER
Hoyt, Homer James
Hughes, James Lemuel
Hummell, Ernest John
Isaac, Fre deriek Neville
James, Reuben Sterrett
Johns, Hlirbert Montrose
Johns, Zachariah David
Johnston, Robert Henry
Kelly, George Washington
King, Arthur Dale
King, Edgar B.
Kuney, Harry Albert
Lacey, Orra Mell
Lane, Alpbeus Wilbour
Latimer, Delmar Hood, P. M.
Lee, William Thomas
Lens, Lodewyk Clement
Lewis, Benjamin Francis
Logan, Harry Britton Sandy
Manor, Lawrence Charles
Martin, Ernest Eastburn
McCord, James W.
McCord, William P.
McCreary; John Edward
McCreary, Robert Hunter
McQuiddy, Thos. Jefferson, P. M.
Moore, Walter .Tames
Morgan, Geo1·ge Alfred
Mullen, Samuel Surlee
Murray, George Harvey
Murray, George W:rnhington
Nelson, Harold Mann
Newport, Fred Tate
Nielson. Alvin Elmo
Noel, Henry Hamlyn
Paul, Arthur
Payton, John Welby, P. M.
Peery, John Thomas
Pickerill, Ernest Fred
Powell, James Henr1
Pratt, Leonard Hope
Price, Albert Ruskin
Price, Alberto Bell, P. M.
Raney, Arthur Leon
Raney, Sheldon Johnstone

R1>ney, Sumner
Rea, D. Bunn
Rea, John
Rehoefer, Samuel
Reuck, Henry Edward
Rice, .Tohn Clarenre
Ritehie, Isaac Andrew
Rogers, George Henry
Ross, Fred Darwin
Ross, John Patchen
Rosenberger, Schuyler Mont.
Sanborn, Walter Andrew
Saunders, Walter H.
Schueler, Harry John
Sensabaugh, John Samuel
Sharp, Benjamin V ·
Sherzer, Simeon Newman
Smith, Judd

441

Steele, Francis John, P. M.
Stewart, John Campbell
Sullivan, John Longwell, P. M.
Taylpr, Julius Calisto
Thompson, Samuel Alexander
Tiffany, Charles Henry
Trewhitt, Loyd Crary, P. M.
Trewhltt, Wayne Douglass
Wallace, Irwin Earle
Walp, James Lineoln Duff
Warnock, Horace Hampton
Webber, Richard Pemberty
Wilkinson, Jesse Price
Wilson, Frank J.
Young, Arthur Judson
Y oung Edmund Ellsworth, P. M.
Young,' John Wesley
- 150

WITHDRAWN:
Tandrow, .Tames Andrew
Allen, Arthur Bailey
Young, Bdmund Ellsworth
SUSPl:<~NOED

Ayers, Amlrew Mansfield
Babb, Myers Lynon

N-PAYMENT OF DUES:
FOR NO
•
Simpson, Louis
DIED:
Cooper, Clavin Savage
Lovelace, Thomas .Tames
lfamsey, John Wilson

MADERA LODGE. No. 280.
Madera, Madera County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Joseph A. Secara, Senior Deacon,
James Lawrence Davis, Master,
Arthur Julius Manasse, Jun. Deac.,
Madera, Cal.
George A. Brown, Marshal,
William A. Brown, Sen. Warden,
John Bryan High, Steward,
George w ashington Benham, J. W.,
William Smith Conner, Steward,
Return Roberts, Treasurer,
Pulaski Clark Eastin, Tyler.
Joseph Emory Newman, Secretary,
Madera, Cal.

448

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:

WI'l'HDRA WN:
Downey, · Hugh Joseph

Anderson, Henry Ciay
Armstrong, Charles Dimer
Arondell, Ellsworth
Barnett, John Robert
Bartman, George Henry
Bernhard, George William, P. M.
Brown, George, P. M.
Brown, William A., .P. M.
Bundy, Pearl Mason
Byars, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Christiana, Albert Eustace
Clark, George Adelb'ert, P. M.
Cochrum, Spirling Young
Conner, William Smith
Cox, Elmer Henry
Curran, James
Daulton, John Francis
, D.avis, James Lawrence, P. M.
Dawson, Edgar Blasdel
Downey, William G.
Dwyer, John
Eastin, Pulaski Clark
Eldridge, George Ford
Francis, .John William
Frizelle, Seymour Reed
Fuller, John Wade
Galbreath, John William
Hargrove, Robert Lee, P. M.
Haring, John Charles
Heavenrich, Arthur Willard
Hely, Levi St. John
High, John Bryan, P. M.
Hughes, Kenneth Leach
Hughes, William Marshall
Hunter, Willie Wilkin Wood
Hurry, Thomas Lyall
.Johnston, Harold Gustave
.Jones, George Washington
Jones, John Marion
Ladd, Monroe Jefferson
Lehrfield, Moses Davia
Leidig, Donald S.

Leffel, James Garfield
Luttrell, George McClure
Manasse, Arthur Julius
Maze, William Camel
Mccardle, Edwin Mace
McDonald, Archibald
McKee, John
McKenzie, Donald Cameron
Newman, Joseph Emory
Owens, Samuel Gasiway
Petty, Charles M.
Ramsey, Will Whitten
Ransom, Don Harvey St. J.
Richardson, John Royal
Roberts, Frank P.
Roberts, John Griffith
Roberts, Return
Robison, Charles Byron
Roeder, Charles Henry
Rogers, William Gerald
Rosenthal, Nathan
Rummelsburg, Charles
Secara, Joseph A., P. M.
Skaggs, Samuel Lee
Sledge, Levin Lane
Sledge, Strudwick
Speegle, Andrew Lee
Spitzer, Joseph James
Stahl, William
Thurman, William Bloodworth
Tooker, Clinton Edward
Tully, Charles Fred
Walde, Henry
White, Willi'!-m Edmund
Williams, Elmer Boyce
Williams, William L.
Wolters, Edward Daviil
Woodson, Guilford Leo
Woodson, Larue Jamison
Wooten, Elias Nelson
Wooten, George Drake

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUPJS:
Giles, Henry
Hosmer, James Able

DIED:
Skaggs, Allen Alexander

MOUNT SHASTA LODGE, No. 281.
Anderson, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Erle Madison Downing~ Master,
Edwin Lee Story, Chaplai11,
Anderson, Cal.
Fred Seymore Field, Sen. Deacon,
John Calvin Kesler, Senior Warden, Calvin Edmond Kesler, Jun. Deacon,
Goodrich Thos. Peacocke, ltm. TV., Charles Henry Spann, Marshal,
James Franklin Bedford, Treasurer, P. Alexander V. Peacocke, Steward,
Alvin Dozier, Secretary,
Charles A. Bell, Steward,
Anderson, Cal.
Harvey Lincoln Bishop, Tyler.

-83

MEMBERS:
Bainbridge, Clarence Edwin
Hutchinson, John
Bedford, James Franklin, P. M.
.Johnson, Harvey Petit
Bedford, William Wesley
.Johnson, George Met chem
Beecher, James Harvey
Kallstead, Andrew Charles
Bell, Charles Arthur
Kempton, John Lincoln, P. M.
Bishop, Harvey Lincoln, P. M.
Kesler, Calvin Edmond
Blichfeldt, Fred Ernst
Kesler, John Calvin, P. M.
Landon, Francis Marion
Buckley, Jerry
Burbank, Arthur Charles, P. M.
Li'!dsey, Charles Beauford
Cartflr, Edward Guy
Love, William
Cassell, Ernest Vivian
McN eill, William
Douglass, Torrence Samuel
Munter, Carl, P. M.
Noble, Owen Price
Downing, Erle Madison
Dozier, Alvin, P. M.
Peacock, Godrich Thomas
Dozier, John Dudley, P. M.
Peacock, Peter Alexander Y .
F1eld, Fred Seymour
Peterson, Charles David
Goodman, Charles Hillor
Pleiscb, Theodore
Reid, William
Goodman, Herbert Edward
Goodman, Timothy D.
Shanahan, Thadeus W. H., P. M.
Hainline, Charles Grant
Shepherd, George Frederick, P. M.
29

ROSTER

450

Smith, Albert Ferdinand, P. M.
Tabler, Guy Clairmont
Spann, Charles Henry, P. M.
Tabler, Levi Jeptha
Story, Edwin Lee, P. M.
Weaver, William
Strange, Morris
\VITHDRAWN:
Green, Frederick Lowell
Hawkins, George Edward

ROSTER

SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.
-41

SUSP:ffiNDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dales, George Benson
Burbank, Joseph Parker
Dunning, Miehael Lee

DIED:
Robertson, James Alexander
Todd, William Hawley

CALLAYOMI LODGE, No. 282.
Middletown, L ake County.
State<l Meetings, Fri<lay of or next preceding Full Moon,
OFFICERS:
George Arthur McKinley, Master,
Elmer E llsworth Noyes, Sen. D eac.,
Lon McKelley, Junior Deqcon,
Middletown, Cal.
Cha~les John Koopman, Sen. Ward., Wellman Jenness Bailey, Marshal,
Andrew Rocca, Steward,
'I'homas Albert Read, Jun . Ward.,
Paul Nelson, Steward,
Joseph Lilburn Read, Treasurer,
Ernest W. Schwartz, T)•ler.
John Bynum Preble, Sec1'etary,
Middletown, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Nelson, Paul, P. M.
Aby, Charles William
Nielson, John Ingerman
Bailey, Wellman Jenness, P. M.
Parrish, James, P. M.
Bates, Warren Walter
Preble, John Bynum
Brookins, Robert Minor
Read, Joseph Lilburn
Cheney, Alonzo H.
Read, Thomas Albert, P. M.
DeMartin John
Reed, Pliney Wilfred, P. M.
Fruit~, George Arthur
Ryder, Irwing Lamphrey
Hawkins, George Giles
Reese, William Henry Clay
Henry, Charles Edwin
Robison, Perry Quint
Holt, Ole Kristian
Rocca, Andrew, P. M.
Kelly, John Melvin
Schwartz, Earnest William, P. M .
Koopman, .John Charles, P. M.
Stoddard, Edward B.
Longley, Frank Beatty
'fully, Charles Henry
McKelley, Lon, P. M.
Vandewater, H. Clay, P . M.
-30
McKinley, George Arthur, P. M.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
lJruilhart, John

451

National City, San Diego County.
Stated ·Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Cicero Parsons Evans, Master,
Baiter Kile Adkisson, Chaplain,
National City, Cal.
Frank Mitchell Chase, Sen. Deacon,
Paul Theophile Mizony, Sen. Ward., Joseph Kauz, Junior Deacon
Warner Edmonds, Junior Warden
Charles C. VanDeripe, Marshal,
Warren Briggs Vaughan, Treasur;r, Jerry O'Connell, Steward,
Edward Davis Dibble, Secretary,
Arthur Virgil Bragg, Steward,
National City, Cal.
Phillip Hooper Evans, Tyler.

. MEMBERS:
Addis, Ernest William
Harris, Charles R.
Adkisson, Baxter Kyle, P . M.
Henderson, David
Angelo, William Robert
Henderson, Walter James, P. M.
Arnold, Arthur Mitcheltree
Hodges, Esau
Ash, George L. H.
Hodges, Jacob Greeneville
Atkins, Wellington B.
Holderness, Ed. Page Granville
Barnes, Lucius Bentley, P . M.
Ivers, John
Belcher, George
.Tohnson, Leo. Garfield
Baugher, Harry Ellsworth
Kimball, Augustus Brooks, P. M.
Bragg, Arthur Virgil
Kimball, Frank Augustus, P . M.
Burnham, George
Kellogg, Frederick Roderick
Burnham, James
Kauz, .Toseph
Bushert 1 Ace! Martin
f.iadroot, Walter H,
Carter, Mark Otley
Leibrick, George
Colburn, C. Ross
Matthiessen, Albert Henry
Davis, Emery W.
Mizony, Paul Theophile
Dibble, Edward Davis
McDonald, Claud Victor
Doty, Fred Englieh
McNeil!, Joseph Bowers
Eggleston, William
Miles, Frederick W.
Evans, Cicero Parsons
Mullen, Orlando Alfred
Evans, Phillip Hooper
Mygatt, Albert S.
Evans, Thomas J .
Noyes, Oliver Clarence
Farr, Loring Halliday Blake
0 'Connell, Jerry
Felton, Wilson K .
011borne, Elbrige F.
Fly, Edward Munroe
Owen, Carl Shuey
Gatiss, Richard Edward
Palmer, Theodore Romayne
Gowan, Benjamin Spencer
Patter8on, Henry James
Hale, Richard L.
Phelpe, Hulcy
Hampton, Henry Blaine
Risdon, Herbert Thomas

ROSTER

ROSTER

452

Strahl, David E.
Stran, Richard W.
Stuart, Charles Harry, P. M.
Tingley, Charles Herbert
VanDeripe, Chas. Chris., P . M.
Vaughan, Warren Briggs, P. M.
Ward, Martin Luther, P. M.
Wigginton, James W.
Wilde, Samuel Morrison
Wiley, Robert Charles
Williamson, Samuel King, P. M.
Wright, James Howe
Yenawine, Geo. Lafayette, P. M.
Zeigler, William
-86

Pitman, Charles
Porter, Robert Small
Priest, Charles Henry
Reed, Frank Pierce
Riggs, William Mallory
Robinson, William G.
Rouland, Neils Peter
Sawyer, Charles Henry
Seymour, John
Simpson, Claudine M.
Smith, Dale, P. M.
Smith, Geo. E.
Snook, J. Curtis
Standish, Harry Asa

WITHDRAWN:
Mills, Warren Everett

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Miguel, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Allen McGowan, Chaplain,
George L. Andrews, Master,
Henry Mohr, Senior Deacon,
Cholame, Cal.
Leo L. Wayland, Senior Warden, Will Thompson, Junior Deacon,
Lawrence McCandless, Marshal,
Charles Forbes, Junior vVarden,
Lorenzo Dowell Murphy, Treasurer, Elmer Gundval Bergersen, Steward,
John Work, Steward,
Henry Twisselmann, Secretary,
John Thompson, Ty/er.
San Miguel, Cal.
Alverado, Manuel :E'rancis
Andrews, George L., P. M.
Benton, Albert F.
Bergemann, Elmer G.
Betts, Charles H.
Bidwell, James S.
Blair, Charles Henry
Blechin, George
Boys, Henry Stanford
Bradhery, King
Braun, Olof
Brooks, Otto

MEMBERS:
Clark, Edgar Marvin
Cole, Oliver Port
Coyne, Martin
Day, John Adams
Decker, Perry S.
Densmore, Jason Fletcher
Douglas, Gerald Noel, P. M.
Douglas, Lewis D.
Durham, Herbert H.
Dunlap, Arthur Milton
Easton, Robert
Edrington, Edgar Wallace

Forbes, Charles, P. M.
Forbes, James
F reeman, Rega Dent
Ganoung, Edwin
Green, Philip
Hennage, William Homer
Horswell, Fred. A.
Hunter, Byron Powell
Knights, Frederick
Landreth, Wilbur Ottis
Lightner, Edward Mills
Linderholm, Henry
Loose, August
Lynch, Henry Walter
McCandless, Lawrence, P. M.
McConnell, Gibson
McFaddin, Hadin V.
McGarvin, Marion Franklin
McGowan, Edward Allen
McQuoan, Henry Monroe
Mezter, Fred H.
Mohr, Henry
Murphy, Lorenzo Dowell, P. M.

453

Noggle, Dwight Keefer
Pinkerton, William
Pollard, J. T.
Rauschoit, Henry George
Remington, Henry Charles
Rice, Geo. Washington
Richardson, John
Seaman, John Detlift', P. M.
Spaulding, Alexander J.
Stanley, William Winfield
Taylor, Edwin
Thompson, John
Thompson, John William
Thralls, Arthur
Twisselmann, Henry
Ulrich, Burton Wesley
Victors, Henry
Wayland, Leo. L.
Webster, John Calvin
Weidemann, Jaachin G., P . M.
Weir, Casper J.
Williams, William Alfred
Work, John
-70

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Blo~k, Albert

PASO ROBLES LODGE, No. 286.
Paso Robles, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, second \Veunes<lay in each month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph White Eddy, Master,
William Samuel Eddy, Sen. Deacon,
Templeton, Cal.
Earl D . Grubbs, Junior Deacon,
William Garfield Gates, S en. Ward., Warren Clifford Bennett, Marshal,
Myron Holley Brooks, Jun. Warden, James Madison Fulwider, Steward,
Frank George .Wetzel, Treasurer,
Maurice Richards Van Wormer, Stw.,
Arthur James Beaty, Secretary,
George Hill Bennett, Tyler.
Paso .Robles, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abernethy, Edward
Beaty, Arthur James
An derson, Simon Peter
Beggs, William Crow
Ashe, Bowman Foster
Bennett, Edwin Montgomery
Barber, Richard
Bennett, George Hill

ROSTEH

454

Bennett, Warren Clifford, P. M.
Bickell, Cliff OrmoJ!d, P. M.
Booth, Eugene Latimer
Booth, Frank Johnson
Booth, Fred George
Brewer, Lyman
Brooks, Myron Holly, P. M.
Burk, John Mitchell
Cassin, Richard Joseph
Coburn, Grant Hood
Cohn, Lewis
Corcoran, Hugh J.
Cox, Ewell
Eddy, Joseph White, P. M.
Eddy, William Samuel, P. M.
Elliott, Vandiver Reid
Eppinger, Herman
Frost, Edward Parker
Gates, William Garfield, P. M.
Gerst, Michael
Grant, Adam Lucas
Griswold, Eugene Carlton
Hamilton, Geo. Washington, P. M.
Howard, Walter Hu gh
Hedgpeth, William Rufus
0

Anthony, James Buchanan

ROSTER

Iversen, Anrlrew Hansen
[ver8en, Christian Anderson
,Jack, Albert LeForrest
,fessup, Edgar Briggs
Macdonald, Robert Cartton
Monroe, John Reed
Muckinstrom, Joseph Isidore
Neal, James W.
Nelson, Andrew
0 'Leary, Michael
Patriquin, Alex. George
Pierce, Benj. Bowlin
Poulsen, Jacobi
Seideman, Conrad
Shackelfor<l, Richard Mathew
Sherman, Thaddeus, P. M . .
Shupp, George A.
Steinbeck, Charles Minor
Tidrow, Joseph
Trussler, Charles James, P. M.
True, Hanson William
Webster, Alexander
Weyer, !iobert C.
Wetzel, Frank George

WITHDRAWN:
Bennett, Raymond Whiteway

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Mcintire, Ernest Berdell
DIED:
S peyer, David

455

WINNEDUMAH LODGE, No. 287.
Bishop, Inyo County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fnll Moon.
OFFICERS:

Winfield Scott Eldred, Chaplain,
Ira Otis Clark, Master,
Clarence H ayes Rhudy, Sen. Deac.,
Laws, Cal.
George Lucien Wells, Sen. Warden, Walter Thomas Clark, Jun . Deacon,
George Alfred Bigelow, Jun. W ard., Frank Evans H oward, Marshal,
Henry Tartan B11sh, Steward,
Lazare Weill, Treasur(!r,
David Wendell Yardell, Steward,
Will Arthur Chalfant, Secretary,
Harvey Adams, T yler.
Bishop, Cal.
MEMBERS:

-57

Adams, Harvey
Albright, George Langton
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Austin, Sta:fford Wallace
Bigelow, Charles Spencer
Bigelow, George Alfre!l
Boone, Clarence Ellroy
Butler, Frank
Bruce, Douglas Robert
Bryson, George Lee
Bush, Henry Tartan
Campbell, Edward Artemas
Cape, Henry Mitchell
Chalfant, Will Arthur
Clark, Ira Otis
Clark, Ulysses Grarit
Clark, Walter Thomas
Clarke, George Alexander, P. M.
Clarke, John
Collett, James Bradford
Collins, Albert Oscar, P. M.
Collins, Charles Albert
Collins, Charles Raymond
Collins, George Kenneth
Collins, George
Collins, John Leonidas
Corey, Manuel Igancio
Doyle, Guy P., p. M.
Dunlap, John Elijah

Dunn, William James
Eldred, Winfield Scott
Evans, Thomas William
Farrington, Archibald
Foorman, Carl Theodore
Furrer, Albert
Granquist, John
Groff, William Edwin
Gunter, Hannibal Newton
H all, Leicester Campbell, P. M.
Ham!llett, William Atwood
Hess, Frederick Mortimer
Hodge, Jacob Cluse
Hollis, Thomas
Howard, Frank Evans
Hughes, George Venning
.Jones. John Edward
.Joughin, William Daniel
Kilpatrick, Alexander Franklin
La.rson, Owen W.
Leicham, Charles George
Longley, George
Love, Robert
Ma r.Donald, George Arthur
McDonald, William
McQueen, John Simpson
Mitchell, William Hart
Nelliga n, Henry Parsell
O~en, Robert Dale

ROSTER

ROSTER

i56

Tinder, Glenn Erran
Todd, John Wagner
• Towner, Hick Marcus
Trickey, William Anthony
Vermilyea, Samuel E.
Washington, Richard Henry
Watterson, Mark Quayle, P. M.
Watterson, Thomas· Gracey
Watterson, Wilfred Wm., P. M.
Watterson, William
Weill, Lazare
Wells, Albert Lloyd, P. M.
Wells, George Lucien
Wildasinn, <Jharles Fell
Wright, J<;seph Henry
Yandell, David Wendell
Yandell, William Parker
-92

Quayle, Walter Osborn
Rhudy, Clarence Hayes
Richel, Charles Arthur
Robinson, Douglas
Romann, .Tohn Henry
Rome, George
Rose, Charles Norman
Schiveley, Albert Duncan
Shaw, Harry
Shipley, William Frank
Shirley, Arthur Ashton
Smith, Eugene Ewart
Smith, Frederick Robert
Smith, Ulysses Grant
Strong, Archibald McClure
Summers, Lloyd
Summers, Thomas

WITHDRAWN:
Vandercook, Albert Emerson
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
DIED:
Cohn, Asher

MAXWELL LODGE, No. 288.
Maxwell, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

Arthur ]. Fouch, Master,
Maxwell, Cal.
George R. Houx, Senior Warden,
James W. Danley, Junior T.Varden,
George W . Desrosier, Treasurer,
J ames W. Marshall, Secretary,
Maxwell, Cal.

Frank H . Abel, Senior Deacon,
Horace W. Fisher, Jun·ior Deacon,
F. M. Baker, Marshal,
Fred Scriver, Steward,
George W. Hastings, Steward,
George Hineline, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Chapman, Karl Raymond
Abel, Franklin Henry
Cook, Henry Jason
Abel, George Henry
Cook, Hiram S.
Ahel, Henry Herman
Cuthbertson, Alex. Macbeth
Baker, Francis Marion
Danley, James Warren, P. M.
Braddy, Joseph Albert
Desrosier, George Wash., P. M.
Brown, Lycurgus Jerome, P. M.

Duncan, Chai1. Prentice, P. M.
Fisher, Horace Winter
Felts, Christopher Columbus
Fouch, Arthur John, P. M.
· Fox, Homer Hastings
Hastings, George Washington
Hineline, George
Houx, George R.
Marshall, James Wells

457

Marshall, Wm. Porter
Mushett, Leo Lee
Pearce, John Alex.
Pence, Geo. B. McClellin
Rumelsburg, Herman
S~river, Frederick
Snyder, August Charles
Taylor, John Delos Sharp, P. M.
-29

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.
Elsinore, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Nelson Jones.Burton, Chaplain,
J ames Stewart, Master,
Elsinore, Cal.
Delbert Roy Crane, Senior Deacon,
Adrian Benj. Barnett, Sen. Warden, John Howe Woodford, J11n. Deacon,
Marcel Nicholas Herbclin, Jim. W., Chas. Sumner Merrifield, Marshal,
Jam es Addison Crane, Treasurer,
Wm. Penn Haworth, Steward,
William Francis Porteus, Secretary, Lewis Delancy Clark, Steward.
Box 84, Elsinore, Cal.
Barn_ett, Adrian Benjamin
Barnett, Eli Elsa
Barnett, John Zachariah
Bolting, Charles Stewart
Burnham, Alfred Sanfred
Brown, Willis Edwin
Clark, Lewis Delancy
Cobb, Jesse ·stanley
Coombs, George Arlington
Crandall, Orsamus Delos
Crane, Delbert Roy
Crane, James Addison
Dimeling, Elmer Arlington
Dodd, Harold Volby
Dodd, Miles William
Fernald, Fra,nk l,.oring
Green, William Henry
Haworth, William Penn
Herbelin, Marcel Nicholas

MEMBERS:
Hoag, Julius Adelbert
Hudson, Charles, P. M.
Jam es, Arthur Watkins
Keeler, George Dennison
Manatt, Scott E.
Meredith, Charles Theiss, P. M.
McClintock, Cecil V.
Merrifield. fJharles Sumner, P. M.
Nelson, Richard Clark
Niemann, Herman Henry
Parkhurst, Jacob Lotspeich
Porteus, William Francis
Roripaugh, .Tohn Elmore
Sloan, William Eskine, P. M.
Small, Albert Kimball
Stewart, James, P. M.
Tibbett, John Franklin
Timmie, John
Tipton, John C.

ROSTER

ROSTER

458

Woodford, Asa W.
Woodford, John Howe

Tuell, Bernea J.
Wall, Peter
Williams, Fred Le Roy
Barnett, Cephas Logan
Lawrence, Henry Eugene
Peck, John Emmett
Frothingham, Harold J.

-43
WITHDRAWN:
*Ryan, Winslow Morrell
. Shaw, John Henry
Smith, Walter Lavelle
DIED:
Walker, Hugh

•Degrees conferred during the year.

EAST GATE LODGE, No.

290.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Eugene Fancher Gray, Master,
Henry William Sherlock, Chaplain,
53 So. Avenue 24, Los Angeles.
Thomas Brenton Becanon, Sen . Deac.,
Robert Vint, Senior Warden,
Burrows Clark Arnold, Jun. D eac.,
Charles Alfred Holland, Jun . Ward ., Frederick Williams Tyler, Marshal,
Charles Martin Burr, Treasurer,
Luther L. Yates, Steu;ard,
Edward Lee Stephens, Secretary,
Go rdon Martin, Steward,
3115 N. Broadway, Los Angeles. Walter Smithen, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adams,' James Gilmour
Andrews, Roger Mercein
Adams, Robert Peuy
Archer, Arthur Jasen
Adams, \Villiam Alexander
Arnold, Burrows Clark
Adcock, Robert James
Arnoldt, Herman
Affeltranger, Ferdinand
Ashley, William Buckley
Ahren1, August
Aydelotte, George Howard
Allen, Carroll Hess
Aylsworth, George Webb
Allen,' Robert Mitchell
Bacheldor, Isaac Otis
Allison, John P,
Baetz, John Henry
Alexander, Charles Ambrose
Bailey, John Mark
Alexander, Oran Laffayette
Bailey, John T.
Alexander, Stephen W. Dorman
Baker, Charles Edwin
Ambrose, Frank Fielder
Baker, Henry Edgar
Ambrose, Wiley Vanee
Baldwin, Evan Jenkins, Jr.
Ames, Charles Ellison
Bard, Hampeus Victor, P. M.
Barker, Eugene Henry
Anderson, Doris
Barnett, Marcus Esla
Anderson, John Francis

Barrett, Clyde Alexander
Bascom, Edgar Floyd
Bates, Norman Francis
Baum, Jacob
Beamon, Alexander Mortimer
Beeanon, '.rhomas Brenton
Beggs, Samuel Joseph
Berman, Harry
Berry, John Price
Beyrle, Andrew
Bigler, Robert Caleb
Black, Clarence Earl
Black, Robert
Blackstone, Henry Winthrop
Blair, Cassius Davis
Blessington, Frank Edward
Bogart, Charles Henry
Bouchard, Philips
Bourne, John Franklin
Bovee, William James
Bowen, Philip E<lwin
Boyd, Charles Elmore
Boyle, Peter Murray, P. M.
Brain, Robert Thomas
Bright:field, John Henry
Brosha, Roy
Brown, Clinton Orlin
Brown, Edgar Kapp
Brown, Joseph Edgar
Buehler, Charles
Bulkey, Olcott Smith
Bullard, Wm. Bradford
Burness, Will~am Jr.
Burr, Charles Martin
Burr, Edwin Rice
Burr, William Hel\ry
Burris, .John Taylor
Burton, Harry Irons
Bush, Arthur Valentine
Cabe, Robert Lee
Calef, Frank John
Campbell, Henry Chapney
Carrick, Harvey Hall
Carroll, Frank
Carson .•ToJi_n Kjngsley

Case, Edwin Alan~\>n
Charbonnal, :Marie Joseph Z.
Chatfield, Glenn Elsworth
Christian, Harfield Timberlake
Chapman, John
Chambers, Andrew Jackso!!.
Childs, WUey Waldron
Chester, Charles Monod
Clark, Edgar Willard
Clapp, Victor
Coedry, Thomas Wallace
·coleman, Thomas Newton
Collette, Louis Prime
Collins, Anthony
lJollins, Holdridge Ozro
Collins, Silas Martin
Conklin, Leon Robbin
Connell, George Brinton
Cooper, ,John Edward
Cooper, Milton Gilbert
Cottrell, Leonard Gerald
Craig, Hiram Anson
Crane, Floyd Walter
Crawford, John Henry
Cray, Oliver
Cross, Alfred
Crowley, James Thomas
Cruicksh~nk, Lewis
Cutter, Everett Parsons
Dalton, Hugh Alex.
Daniel, William Tb.ornas
Davidson, William llenry, P. M.
Davison, Allen
De La Monte, Jacques Henry
Dellenbaugh, Robert Cha11.
Dibble, James Robert
Dickson, James
Dockstrader, Erne~t Cl"yton
Dockstader, Martin
Donato, Henry Delmand
Donivan, Cha~ . Edwin
Donivan, John William
Dromgold, Reuben Wilrnr
Dundas, Robert Ch0llter
Durfee, DeLois AtkinB

459

460

DeNick, John Adam
Denison, Francis Edgar
Doverspike, Derol Larkin
Eagan, Daniel Augustus
Earle, Charles Nelson
Eggert, Gustave
Eisenmayer, George Franklin
Eisenmayer, Philip Henry
Emery, Lee Roy
Eno, Bert William
Etchepare, Gaston Joseph
Eubank, Stephen James
Ewing, William Samuel
1',airclough, Harry
Fee, John Chester
Feidler, Max
Felt, Charles Benjamin
Felt, Tom Benjamin
Fernald, Joseph Harry
Fiddamont, Wm. Alfred
Field, Robert Nelson
Finley, Wm. Custer
Finnall, John Eager
Fisher, Walter Willard
Fletcher, John William
Fitch, Thomas
Flint, Frank Putman, P. M.
Flint, Motley Hughes, P. G. M.
Flynn, Alex. Kie
Flynn, Rudolph
Forschner, Donald Robert
Frankhouser, Francis Wm.
Frembling, Albert Fred
Fulton, William Henderson
Furrer, John
Gale, William Knight
Garlock, Geo. Sylvester
Gates, Harry Henry
Geis, Albert Joseph
Gillingham, Caleb
Giltenan, Robert Emmet
Goble, William Franklin
Goodfriend, Arnoldt
Goodman, Leon Jacob
Gordan, Benhard

ROSTER
Gould, Robert Delos Baldwin
Graefner, Leopold
Grant, Arthur Cameron
Gray, Eugene Fancher
Gray, Melville M.
Gray, Thomas Henry
Green, Jonathan M.
Greer, Perry H.
Griest, Hadley
Gronow, Tracy Deering
Gruber, George
Gundlack, Augustus
Gundlack, Robert Seely
Gwynn, Alfred Edward
Hafford, Ferris Samuel
Haines, Newell Langley
Hall, Charles Spencer
Hall, Harry Barton
Hall, Paul Rutledge
Haller, Jacob Ferdinand, P. M.
Hallett, William Hovey
Hamm, Wm. Geo.
Hand, Alfred Harold
Harper, .Tames Edwin
Harris, Harry Lester
Hart, Richard D.
Harting, John Henry
Harton, Leo White
Harvey, Frank Kramer
Hathaway, LeViene Josiah
Hawley, Mark Leo
Hayes, Fred
Hayward, Frank Edward
Healy, Bernard
Heaney, Robert
Helfin, Francis Asbury
Hellman, Marco Herman
Hemphill, Robert Simms
Henderson, William Alexander
Henshaw, William Ambrose
Herman, Henry Elmer, P. M.
Higgins, Solon Lee
Hilleary, Warren
Hobble, Benjamin
Hogancamp, Robert Thomas

BOSTER
Hoffman, William Boyd
Holderman, Clarence Smith
Holdridge, Charles Henry
Hollis, George Henry
Holland, Chas. Alfred
Holloway, Joseph Brevitte
Holmes, Alfred Henry
Horner, John
• Houser, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.
Howard, Vern.
Hudson, Geo. Whitfield
Huestis, Ed. McCook
Hurd, Fred Barrows
Hutchins, Ray
Jacobs, Isaac Orlando
Jacobson, Leo
James, Frank
Jay, Clarence Lee
Jay, Frank Augustus
Jeffries, John Henry
Jenkins, James Curtis
Jenkins, James Thomas
Jinnette, Joseph Monroe
Johnson, Charles William
Johnson, James Thomas
Johnson, Pierce Floyd
Johnston, John Griffith
Jones, Roy Temple
Joslyn, Charlton E.
Judd, Wm. James
Judon, George
Keese, Roy Boardman
Kellogg, Frederick Ranney
Kerr, Milton George
Keyes, Asa, P. M.
Keyes, Charles George
Kinch, Arthur Lamborn
King, Francis Everton
Kletting, Oscar
Knorr, Charles Albert
Koretz, Emil
Knouff, John Brough
Kolster, Charles Gallway
Lampton, Leon E~ene, P. M.
Landsberg, Marcus

Lanphar, William Vaughn
Latham, George
Laurence, William Flint
Lawler, Oscar, P. G. M.
Lawler, Norman
Lawrence, John
Leavers, George Reynolds
Leeds, William Harmon
Leffler, John Robert
Lerrigo, Francis Richaru
Leyy, Oscar
Lewellin, Bert C.
Lewis, John Ciement
Lewis, Orlin Lugren
Ley, George John
Lindsey, Cecil Wm. B.
Lockhart, Thomas Reed
Lorenz, Uharles Henry
Loucks, Ernest Leroy
Lovejoy, William Robertson
Luckenbach, John
Lyle, Charles Francis
Lynch, Edward C,
Maly, Charles Wesley
Mann, Henry
Mann, Henry James
Mann, Wm. Austin
Markwith, Wm. Leonard
Martin, David, P. M.
Martin, Gordon
Martin, Gordon Robert
Martin, James Rufus
Martin, Wm. Reid
Mastin, Thomas Chester
McAlpine, Bertram
McClure, John
McCrea, George
McCully, Richard Overall
McDonald, Charles _.\.lexaniler
Mcintyre, Charles Ira, P. M.
McKay, William Scott
McKeag, William Heisler, Jr.
McKillip, Denis Edward
McLean, Herbert Douglas
McMillan, Erwin Adelbert

462

~ Rd$'i'ER

McNab, Frank Brown
;)frNanghton, Peter U.
McNelly, William 'folman
McNaoh, John
Mc Whorter, Thomas Lakin
Mendelsohn, Myer
Menthie, Gttstav Frank
Meredith, William Gay1ore
Merithew, Charles Frederic
Messacar, Frank William
Metzler, Milton
Michelson, Homer Manuel
Miller, William
Milligan, N oevell Webb •
Minick, Manford
Monkman, Rollin Wilfred
Montgomery, Chester Arthur
Morgan, James Glenn
Morgan, William Chester
Morrill, Mattson, Annis
Morris, Bernard
Morris, Jacob
Morrison, Edwin M . .
Moore, Robert Beach
Moss, Clemence Felton
Moss, George Franklin
Mottashed, John Alexander
Mount, Wm. Druce
Mulkey, Frank Cannon, P. M.
Nairn, James Meatlancl M.
~ash, Thomas Allen
Neir, Harry Wesley
~ evins, Leon '.Vesley
Nickell, Francis Marion
Nickerson, John William
Nikrent, .Joseph August
Nutt, Robert Franklin
Nutter, Ly:tnan Eugene
Ogan, Sidney Albert
Oliver, William Edwin
Orr, Oscar Owen
Osgood, Ernest Edward
Osgood, .James Earl
Ottarson, Earl Ferdinand Joaquin
Pallman. Axell

Palomar as, Frank Joseph
Park, Clarence Eugene
Parker, Claude irving
Parr, Frank A vory
Passow, Henry William Frederick
Patterson, Charles Edgar
Patterson, Peter F.
·
Patton, Vaughn Quain
Patil, John Rink
Pearson, Carr<>Il Addison
Pearson, Otio W ellin
Penn, Charles Franklin
Perillard, Joseph Daniel
Pettit, Zachary Taylor Jr.
Pfahler, Paul George
Pierce; Geo. Clayton
Pierce, William Harry
Poll, Matt
Porter, Charles Alfred
Potts, Alexander Robert
Prince, Geo. Loren
Putman, Frederick Singleton
Ragland, Frank
Randle, William Alonzo
Ream, Claude Carl
Reber, John Edward
Rells, William David
Reiffin, Michel
Reynolds, Clay Moses
Richarcison, William
Rinaldi, Arthur
Ritchie, Alfred George
Ritchie, James
Roberts, John S.
Robinson, Henry Jatnes
Rogers, Joseph Redford
Rogers, Wm. Madison
Roess, George
Romans, Lorenzo
Romans, Theo. Denny
Royere, Paul Peter
Rush, Judson Randolph
Rushton, George Wilson
Russell, Almen Butler
Russell. Geo. Washington

ROSTER
Rutter, Albertus J.
Ryan, John Edga1
Sanborn, Frank Herbert
Sanborn, Wheelock Kimball
Save, Paul
Sayre, William Ernest
Schader, Herbert George
Sehakow, Charles John
Schmidt, Herman Carl
Sehnebly, Wm. Francis
Sehoenoeg, Nat
~·khroeter, Robert George
Schubert, George John
Schultheiss, William Frederick
' .111il Albert
Sehwed, Felix Ralph
Searl, Albert
Seavers, Frank Loran
Shanafelt, Thomas Edwin
Shang, Hubert Story
Shaw, Carl Guard
Shaw, Hoss D.
Shea, Willard Wright
Shl'!len, Helmer Augustus
Sherlock, Henry William
Shilling, Warren Randolph
Shorb, Orrie Ashley Andrew
Showen, .Tames C.
Shultis, Jordan
Sincerbox, John William
Smith, .B enjamin Nathaniel, Jr.
Smith, James Sterling
Smith, Leonard Emery
Smith, Melvin David
Smithen, Walter
Snively, Austin Calvin
Snodgrass, Earl Pall
Snodgras, Furman Earl
Snow, Harry L .
Sorenson, John
Sovereign, Geo. Roscoe
Spalding, William Andrew, P. M.
Spear, Joseph Mqrgan
Spear, Samuel Dunn
8pence, .Tohn Daniel

Squire, Guy Oliver
8taffer, William
8tead, Benson, Jr.
Stearns, Elmer Paine
Stern, Adam
Steitz, Jacob Raymond
Stephens, Albert Miller
8tephens, Clarence Edward
Stephens, Clarence Eugene
Stephens, Edward Lee, P. M.
Stephen8, Harry 8hryock
Stevenson, Charles Oscar
Stockwell, George Washington
Stoddard, Frederick H,
Stoker, Chas. Fred 'k
8tonr, Harry Eli
Stover, Abram C.
St. John, Walter Lee
Street, Wm. Henry
Streshly, Richard Chllnning
Stroud, HarriRon Edward
8tuart, Joseph Leroy
Stumpf, Elmo John
Suell, Elijah
Sutton, Geo. Elmer
Syminton, Gilbert John
Taylor, George Edwin
Taylor, Russell McDowell
Terrell, Herbert Truman
Teskey, Samuel
Thayer, Forrest .Jerome
'rhom, Cameron DeHart
'rhom, Catcsby Charles, P. M.
Thompson, Walter Rhoades
Thomson, James
Thorne, Francis Arthur
. 'ribbitts, .James Madison
Tomlinson, William Glenard
Truitt, .Tadie
Trantman, Paul Stephen
Treadway, Clinton William
Thresher, Arthur Ward
Turner, Lester Wilfred
Tyler, Ben Champion
Tyler, Frederick Williams

464

v alek, Renney
Vandegrift, Malcolm Robb
Van Dingstee, Cornelius
Van Dingstee, Hiram M.
Van Slyke, Lewis Julius
VanWhy, August Marion
Vaughn, Alton Rogers
Vint, Robert
Vodra, Vietor Valentine
Von Poser, Otto Daniel
Vlodek, Alexander
Walbridge, Otis Collins
Walkinshaw, Charles Henry
Wallis, Hubert John
Walsh, Daniel Potter
Ward, David Montzuma
Ward, George Washington
Ward, Raymond Ransome
Wasem, George Wnshington
Washburn, William Johnson
Weaver, Lucian Leroy
Weller, William Woods
Wescott, Herbert Edward
Baker, Nelson Willis
Michener, Jesse Edward

ROSTER
West, George Miller
West, Henry Hebard
Whalin, Elmer R.
Wheeler, Frank Harry
White, Charles Alfred
White, Walter Garfield
White, William
Wharton, Charles B.
Wicker, Clarence Baldwin
Wilkes, Alfred Galpin
Wilkes, Thomas
. Williams, Herbert George
Willis, Frank Rominar, P. M.
Winans, Alonzo Culley
Winters, Charles Oscar
Wolfe, Winfield Scott
Wood, Sherman
Woodsmall, John Walter
Yager, Sherman Alvin
Yates, Luther L.
Younkman, William Earl
Zeitz, William David
WITHDRAWN:
Nightengale, John Henry
Spencer, Thomas Jarvis

DIED:
Herwick, John Steck
Perkins, Albert Henry S.

461)

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.
Santa Paula, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Earl Camp tree, Master, ·
Santa Paula, Cal.
William Burkett Naugle, Sen. W.,
Edward J. Canavan, Jun. Warden,
Frank E. Davis, Treasurer,
Henry Nichols Snyder, Secretary,
Santa Paula, Cal.

-529

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Habel, George Henry
Anderson, Claude Orval
Plumb, William Benjamin
Evans, Evan Auther
Sheasby, George Washington
Fenton, James Averill
Bainer, Andrew Mickle
Gardiner, Francis Irwin

ROSTER

William C. Wannell, Chaplain,
E.ugene Herbert Decker, Sen. Deac.,
Alfred Doon Clayton, Jun. Deacon,
Alton Drown, Marshal,
William Richardson, Steward,
William Robinson, Steward,
Stanton Grant Doan, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Drown, Alton Lucius
Fagan, Michael
Farrand, George E.
Flisher, George Washington
Foster, Frank Cheney
Foster, Fred Albert
~,rey, William Lester
Gailey, Dan Gregg, P. M.
Gilger, Frank B.
Good, Frank Elwin
Grinnell, Bryce Bradshaw
Guiberson, Lorraine Parr
Hales, William
Hardison, Guy Lyman
Hardison, Louis Arthur
Hardison, Lowell Mason
Hardison, Oliver James
Harrington, James Ha11tings
Harvey, Frank Fletcher
Haugh, Joseph Reek, P. M.
Hawley, Oscar Franklin
Hedrick, Benj. Clinton
Henderson, Herbert Curtis
Henegar, Eugene Long
Hutchins, James Varcoe
Hutchison, Robert Newton
Jen kins, Samuel Rogers
Joy, Olin Comfort
Joy, Ray Comfort, P. M.

Allen, Ai. W.
Allen, William Henry
Best, Willis Austin
Blanchard, Arthur Hall
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, P. M.
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, Jr.
Bond, Rufus Gallatin
Bond, Thomas Hindman
Boor, Walter Raymond
Bowker, Louis Britton
Browne, Isaac Proctor,. P . M.
Burson, Albert Louis, P. M.
Call, Arthur Milliman ·
Campbell, Earl
Canavan, Edward J.
Carver, Harry Bernice
Cauch, John Robert
Churchill, Ralph Loren
Claberg, Norris Leander
Clarke, Robert Montgomery
Clayton, Alfred Dorn
Cleveland, Charles Jerry
Corbett, Leonard White
Crane, John Briggs
Davis, Frank Elwell, P. M.
Decker, Eugene Herbert
DeNure, Delos DeWolf, P. M.
Derbyshire, Fred Levi
Draper, Arthur Edgar .
30

..·: l
•

1

ROSTER

466

Shive, James Henry
Skinner, Ernest Guy
Skinner, George IIorace
Sloan, James Harvey, P. M.
Slocum, Thomas Arnold
Smith, Robert Percy
Snyder, Henry Nicholas
Sperry, James Clarence
Stein, Willie McCain, P. M.
Stetson, Richard N.
Stewart, James Foster
Stewart, Nlie Hopkins
Strong, Jacob Corrington
Teague, Charles Collins
Teague, Dana Lyndon
Teague, Richard Henry
Thomas, Simeon John
Titus, Frank Keith, P. M.
Todd, Marquis DeLafayette
Vance, Thomas Logan
Virden, Edwin, P. M.
Wannell, William Colston
Webster, David Augustus
Wedekind, Edward
Williams, Howard E.
Whitmer, George
Whitney, George F.
Wilson, Charles Berry
Wiser, Frank Alfred
Wright, Walter Henry, P. M.
Youngken, Benjamin Noble
Youngling, Paul Fisk

King, Warren LeRoy.
Kitchen, Earl Windsor
Lewis, Harry Leroy
Mack, James, P. M.
Mahon, John
Martin, Ira Benjamin
Martin, Rollin Leo
Mcintosh, George Robert
Mills, Lauren Elmer
Mott, David Wallace, P. M.
Naugle, Wm. Burket
Neville, Lorne Sincoe
Orcutt, John Hall, P. M.
Owen, Paul Guy
Pickering, James Alex.
Plaugher, Frank
Pollock, Earl B.
Poplin, Robert Lee
Pruitt, Henry Daniel
Proctor, Henry, Jr.
Puckett, Charles Newton
Ransdell, Alex. Moore
Ramsaur, Lucien Clare
Reed, Frank
Reese, Wm. Mathews
Rice, James Clarence
Richardson, John William
Richmond, Sydney Bell
Robinson, 'iVilliam Holton
Say, Norman Oliver, P. M.
Scott, William Benjamin
Shain, Halver Alonzo
Shipley, Frank Arthur
Kenney, William
SUSPENDED
Salathe, Frederick

LOS GATOS LODGE, No.

Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.

WITHDRAWN:
Richardson, John A.
NON-PAYMEN'l' OF DUES:-Webb, Charles Tichnor

DIED:
Churchill, Joshua Perry

292.

Los Gatos, Santa Clara County.

-123

FOR

467

ROSTER

OFFICERS:
Etton Marion Hogg, Sen. Deacon,
Harry St. Clare Finley, Master,
Irving Orr Mabie, Jun. Deacon,
Los Gatos, Cal.
Russell Henry Sund, Sen. Warden, Francis Marion Derrickson, Marshal,
Paul Edward Curtis, Jun. Warden, William Harry Ruddell, Steward,
George Ingram Van Eaton, Steward,
Arthur Berryman, Treasurer,
Charles Calwell Van Eaton, Tyler.
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Los Gatos, Cal.
MEMBERS:
·Ellis, William Robert
Balch, Stevens Delos
Emerson, George Randolph
Barnett, Joseph
Erickson, Andrew Lawrence
Beckwith, Henry Seamon
Finley, Harry St. Clare, P. M.
Bell, Richard Rundell
Fretwell, Joseph Joel
Berryman, Arthur, P. M.
Gober, Robert Pearis, P. M.
Blank, Moses Franklin, P. M.
Green, George Anthony, P. M.
Bogart, Andrew 'Templeman
Harmon, Charles Dana
Briggs, Charles Hunter, P. M.
Hook, Jonathan Wesley
Bryant, James Rea
Hogg, Elton Marion
Bullard, Sewell Francis
Hogg, Raymond Olay
Burrell, William Arthur
Hunter, Charles Mandeville
Butler, Edward Samuel Stone
Husted, Ralph'Allen
Castle, Carroll Clay
Hutchins, William Octave
Chandler, Robert Bowman
Johns, Thomas Edwin, P. M.
Charles, Charles
Johnson, Albert
Chubbuck, Samuel Willis
.Tones, William, P. M.
Oilker, Archie Lipsett
King, John Jay
Oilker, John Marion
Knowles, Frank Wesley, P. M.
Oilker, Robert Abner
Laddick, John Henry
Oilker, William Hamilton
La Montagne, Edward Oscar
Clark, Ernest Le Roy
Latham, Allen Roscoe
Cole, Lawrens A.
Lint, Peter Franklin, P. M.
OonoYer, Virgil Melville
· Lowell, Frank Sumner
Cooke, Bates Millard
Lundblad, Paul Andrew
Curtis, Paul Edward
Lupton, Henry W.
Curtiss, Merritt C.
Lyndon, William Weldon
Decker, Charles MagnnR
Matheson, David
De Long, Charles Warren"'
Derrickson, Francis Marion, P. M. McMurtry, George Sherman
Mead, Thaddeus Honn
Ellis, John Edward

468

ROSTER

Mills, Flynt William
Morrell, Jesse Burrell
Osmer, George
Pearce, Bartholomew William
Pearce, Franklin Walter
Pearce, James Henry
Pearce, James Henry, Jr.
Penny, Albert
Pierce, Charles Henry
Ramsay, Hugh Augustine R.
Rice, John Austin
Riggs, Zedd Smith, P. M.
Roberts, Carl Jackson
Roberts, Douglas J.
Roberts, Hugh Ross, P. M.
Roberts, Sumner Van Ness P. M.
Robertson, Richard Felix,
M.
Rogers, Noah Garcelon
Ruddell, William Harry
Sams, Abram Lash
Sams, Homer Lash
Scammon, Charles Franklin
Schofieltl, John Albert
Sheffield, Leslie Ellsworth

P.

Shirley, Horace Gordon
Shore, Julius Dalton
Short, Wilbur Clinton
Siman, John Bohumil
Simon, Paul
Simpson, Samuel
Smith, Erle Temple
Smith, John William
Smith, Robert Ernest
Sporleder, William
Stamper, Elbert Cevere
Stanfield, James John
Sund, Russell Henry
Taylor, Benjamin Grant
.T empleman, Arthur Wellington
Topping, Charles Samuel
Van Eaton, Charles Calwell
Van Eaton, George Ingram
Warren, Linton Allen
Watson, Robert Matthew
Weaver, Nelson Holland
Wells, Eagon C.
Wilder, Notia Irwin
Yocco, George Henry
-108

WITHDRAWN:
Lundblad, William Arthur
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Eastman, Harry Campbell
DIED:
Lyndon, James Hardie

Lyndon, John Weldon

ROSTER

469

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.
Orange, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Harry Franklin Dalrymple, Master, Arthur Child Newell,, Chaplain,
Orange, Cal.
Charles Otis Field, Settior Deacon,
George Allan Riley, Senior Warden, William Albert Knuth, Jun. Deacon,
Asher Frank Lankford, Jun. Ward., Clyde Frank Newton, Marshal,
Clifton John Overshiner, Treasurer, Edwin Bolden Peers, Steward,
Walter Scott Gregg, Secretary,
Ernest Miller Post, Steward,
Box 204, Orange, Cal.
John Sidney Braisher, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Harrison Zachariah
Durnbaugh, Edgar
Eckhardt, William Bates
Adams, John
Edwards, Nelson Thomas, P. M.
Arnim, William Laidley
Eells, Arthur Lewis ·
Baker, Charles
Faerber, William
Barton, Hiram Arthur
Ferguson, Chancy Christopher
Bates, Charles Myron
Field, Charles Otis
Bennett, Francis Marion
Bishop, Clyde Livingston, P. M.
Folger, Ross Lloyd
Fullerton, James, P. M.
Bollinger, Robert
Gates, George W.
Boring, Johnty Purcell
Gilman, Edwin Lee
Bowen, David
Granger, Wm. Delos
Praisher, John Sidney
Gregg, Walter Scott, P. M.
Brown, Edwin J.
Gregg, William' Merrill
Brown, William Martin
Hayton, John Burr
Cahill, John Valinzo
Helwig, Benjamin Reason
Chapline, Frank Leroy
Helwig, Walter Lee
Clark, Milo Munroe
Higgins, Alfred
Cole, John Leonard
Coats, Ranaldin Lycurgus
Hitchcock, Alton Lincoln, P. M.
Collins, Isaac Lea, P. M.
Holt, Ben Albert
Crawford, Daniel Peers
Holt, William Arthur
Crawford, Earl Monroe
Honey, Edwin Alonzo, P. M.
Cummings, Ernest John
Ingalls, Ernest ~hannon
Dalrymple, Harry Franklin
Jackson, George Logan, P. M.
Dalton, Robert C.
Jernigan, Samuel
Deyoe, Leroy Warren
Jessup, Sellers
Donovan, Napoleon
King, John Allen
Drake, David Clarence
Knesel, Jacob Lureston
Durfee, Louis Adelbert
Knuth, William Albert

4i0

ROSTER
ROSTER

Lankford, Asher Frank
Lee, Eugene Tewkesberry
Lee, William Cushman, P. M.
Lounsberry, John Brown
Lush, Clarenee Edgar
Mallory, Charles Perrin
McDonald, William Henry
McTaggart, Neil Godfrey
Meadows, Charles Waldo
Meehan, John Edward
Mellor, Franklin Horace
Miller, Herman A.
Morgan, John William
Morin, Thomas
Myers, Jesse David
Newell, Arthur Childs, P. M.
Overshiner, Clifton John
Paine, James Robert
Park, Wm. Brewster
Perkins, Wyllys Warren
Peters, Herman Christopher
Pixley, DeWitt Clinton
Porter, John Robert
Post, Ernest Miller
Potter, Noah UlyHes

Poussette, William Courthope
Riehlirdi, Guy G.
Riley, George Allan
Robertson, Francis Elolin
Royer, Daniel Franklin, P. M.
Schmidt, John
Smith, Ernest Hartford
Smith, Willard
Sproule, Gilbert
Stocking, Merle
Swinney, Vincent Boliver
Tiffany, Abraham Beecher
Upham, Harry George
Vaughan, James Edwin
Wade, Llewellyn
w·aldorf, Bert J.
Watson, Kellar Ebenezer
Weatherly, George Homer
Weber, Francis S.
Williams, Howard .Orlan, P. M.
Williams, Warner Bryant, P. M .
Weymouth, Albert B.
Wyland, Pete W.
Zuckerman, John Samuel

WITHDRAWN:
Close, Nathaniel Mills Perry
Hayes, Charles Asa

Masters, Henry Jerome
Rowley, William Orion
Williams, James Thomas

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF PUES:
Cooper, Henry R.
Gardner, Dian Rathbone
Fredericks, Jos. Hanna
Gitchell, Fred E.
Smith, W. Arthur

-107

471

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294.
Kingsburg, Fresno County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Hugh L. Bishop, Master,
Kingsburg, Cal.
Charles ]. Clark, Sm. Warden,
Clayton F. Draper, Jun. Warden,
Levi Garrett, TreasMrer,
Henry E . Verble, Secretary,
Kingsburg, Cal.
Barry, William Scott
Bishop, George Washington
Bishop, Hugh L., P. M.
Bordson, Ben
Bowhay, Newton J.
Boyle, George W.
Brown, Daniel E.
Buchanan, Alex. Marion
Buchanan, ·Jesse Alxis
Catlin, Robert Allen
Clark, Earl R.
Clarke, Charles Jackson
Collins, Manuel E..
Curle, Garland Ward, P. M.
Dill, Charles Henry, P. M.
Draper, Clayton Francis
Duval, Ernest H.
Ellison, Barton
Estabrook, Joseph S.
Fowler, Oswald Percy
Forney, John Forrest
F ray, Ruben Henry ·
Garrett, Levi
Hanby, Levi Garrett
Hanson, Nels
Harkleroad, George Jarvis
Heimrath, Charles
Hurley, Lloyd Elaxander

Wal ?er E. Sims, Senior Deacon,
Nels Hanson, Junior Deacon,
Andrew E. Johnson, Marshal,
M. S. Stirwalt, Steward,
J ohn F. Forney, Steward,
George J . Harkleroad, Tyler,.

MEMBERS:
Hurst, Walter
J ohnson, Andrew Edwaru
Johnson, Axel
Kimberlin, Ernest Marion, P. M.
King, Nathan Alfreu,. P. M.
Loomis, Asa Bird, P. M.
Maxwell, Ralph Earl
McGovern, George Washington
Mugler, Albert Miller
Nelson, William Dennis
Ogden, Henry Samuel
Ogle, Emmitt ·
Olson, J ohn Adolph
Palladine, Antonio C.
Palladine, Chester T.
Pennebaker, William Findley
Peterson, William M.
Petterson, I var Adolph
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis, P . M.
P inkley, Eugene Willarrl
Rea, Francis Leo
Redenbaug·h, Milton
Rosendahl, Frank D.
Ross, Samuel A.
Simons, Walter Erwin
Smith, Thomas Dick
Stirewalt, Forrest Roy, P . M.
Stirewalt, Martin Sandy
.J

472

ROSTER

ROSTER

Thomas, Henry Colby
Van Buren, William Henry
Verble, Henry Ernest
Walsh, Martin Franklin

Warren, ·Albert
Wolfe, Alonzo D.
Wolff, Sigmund
Woods, An.d rew Jackson

-64

WITHDRAWN:
Rutherford, James Madison

MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295.
Guerneville, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Arthur Turner, Master,
Francis Drake Trosper, Sen. Deacon,
Santa Rosa, Cal.
George Grayson Chapman, Jun. Deac.,
Charles Joseph Schmetz, Sen. Ward., David Hetzel, Marshal,
Willard Chester Cole, Jun. Warden, Newton Jackson Grider, Steward,
Oliver Wescott, Treasurer,
Park Raymond Ingram, Steward,
Lauren Maucine Martin, Secretary, Marshall Florence, Tyler.
Guerneville, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abbey, Alfred Bailhache
Hasek, Frank Joseph
Austin, David Lee
Heason, George Walker
Austin, John Overton
Hetzel, David
Ayers, William Henry Martin
Ingram, Park Raymond
Bagley, Herbert Lincoln, P. M.
Irwin, Joseph Wesley
Banks, James Asa
Keaton, John Jefferson
Bartholomew, James Sherman
King, William
Beattie, John, P. M.
Klein, Charles Frederick
Bell, Bradford
Kormel, Charles Edward
Bohn, Frederick
Many, Edward ·
Brown, Chester Brock
Martin, Lauren Maucine
Campbell, James Madison
McCray, Warren
Carr, .Charles Fremont
McDonald, Malcom
Chapman, George Grayson
McGuffin, Isaac, P. M.
Cobb, Omer Otto
McPeak, Anthony
Cole, Williard Chester
McPeak, Jerry Martin
Cole, William Lester
McPeak, Mathew Lawrence
Duncan, Thomas Fluden
Miller, James Zering
Florence, Marshall .
Morelli, Joseph Barnaba
Gilliam, James Mitchell
Morelli, Lee Gaulenzio
Grider, Lorenzo Theodore
Mosely, Albert Pettis
Grider, Newton Jackson
Nuttall, William Henry

Oberfell, William
Olsen, Jess August
Patton, John
Peugh, David Benjamin, P. M.
Peugh, Edward Allen
Plath, Fritz
Prestwood, Jesse Franklin, P. M.
Prosek, Chari.es Martin, P. M.
Reed, Arthur Lanfear
Ridenhour, Lewis Edward
Riese, Samuel Helmute
Roberts, John Henry
Rodgers, Chester Thompson
Roussan, Frederick Eli

473

Schelmz, Charles Joseph
Shera, Albert Edward
Smith, William Somervail
Story, Walter Francis
Tate, Junius Clarence
Teaderman, Edward
Trosper, Francis Drake
Tunstall, Robert Noel
Turner, William Arthur, P. M.
Ungewitter, Henry W<ist, P. M.
Van De Mark, George Franklin
Watson, James Reade, P. M.
Westcott, Oliver
-71

WITHBRAWN:
Bacon, Oscar Franklin
. DIED:
Hrusa, John

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Ernest Butler, Chaplain,
Asa Roderick Jones, Master,
John Philip Borgle, Senior Deacon,
711 Fifth Street.
John Francis Covert, Senior Warden, Marius Hansen Quitsow, Jun. Deac.,
William G. Barth, Junior Warden, John Theodore Kaidel, Marshal,
John J. Manny, Steward,
Frank Augustus Frye, Treasurer,
·John Quiller Symons, Steward,
Joseph Henderson Francis, Secy.,
Arthur Burton Haxton, Tyler.
832 Beech Street.
. MEMBERS:
Bachman, Joseph Sylvester
Acheson, Nathan Bailey
Bailey, James Harvey
Airhart, Wm. Henry
Baldwin, Henry
Allan, Roy Carson
Bates, Oscar Winfield
Almgren, Louis, Jr.
Barber, George Ethelbert
Anderson, Gottfred
Barrows, Clarence Harmon
Anthony, Herbert Elam
Barth, William G.
Appleton, Qharles Reuben
Beach, Henry Ward
Ator, Charles Franklin
Beach, John Chauncey
A<wood, Arthur Dwight

,
474

Benoit, Victor
Bent, Roland Theo.
Benton, Charles Herbert
Benton, William C.
Billing, John
Binder, George Fred 'k Wm.
Blair, Thomas Phinnan
Bode, George Elton
Boyd, Robert
Boyle, Daniel
Bradley, Andrew Joseph
Brassington, Edwin George
Brelin, Gustaf, P. M.
Brilliant, Jesse Josephus
Brisco, Thomas
Brisco, William Rigg
Brogle, John Philip
Brooks, George Waddell
Brown, Edward Leslie
Brown, Stephen
Bruschi, Virgilio. Geacomo
Bryant, Benjamin Wellington
Bub, Henry Randolph
Buck, Adam
Burbeck, Edward Mitchell
Entler, Cha~les Ernest
Butler, Edwin Isaac
Butler, George
Bye, Ch1ulea Richard
Campbell, John
Campbell, John C.
Cantrell, David Gooding
Carey, George Washington
Cassidy, James Henry, P. M.
Cathcart, John Lee
Cavanaugh, James Paul
Cavoli, Ettori
Cesmat, Leon
Chanoy, Harry Samuel
Chilton, Ulysses Grant
Chilton, William Brown
Christopher, William Henry
Clark, James Smith
Clarke, Virdal Cushing
Cochran, Milton Adair

ROSTER

ROSTER
Coffman, Warren Archie
Cohen, Jacob
Comsto<'.k, Merton M.
Cornell, Anson Fiske, P. M.
Covell, George Leonard Porter
Covert, John Francis
Cowles, John Timothy
Crandall, Wesley Clarence
Creelman, Lawrence Aug., P. M.
Cronan, Philip George
Cummings, Alton Buel
Daley, Henry
Daly, Kieran
Daney, Eugene, P. M.
Davis, Fredric Eugene
Danehy, Arthur Homer
Deacon, Daniel Arthur
DeFerrari, Joseph Ch'arles
Dickenson, Edgar .William
Doddridge, Frank
Doddridge, William Henry :
Doores, James Edgar
Downs, Benjamin Fuller .
Doyle, ,Tarvis Lathrope, P. M. ·
Dyas, Francis ·Raymond
Edwards, Alfred Geo.
Ehrman, Henry Stepliens
Elliott, Albert J eremiab
Elliott, Fred 'k William
Elliott, Clyde Ellis
Ernsting, Christian William .
Escher, John Frederic
Essig, William Henry
Fallai, Guy
Fano, Edward Aaron
Ferris, Carlisle Iverson
Floteher, Edward
Flint, Winfield Scott
Fisher, Jesse David
Fortune, Dorell La
Foster, Walter Leonar'~
Francis, Joseph Hendersoa
Frey, Sigmund
Frisbie, Herbert Bert
Frye, F rank Auguiltus, P. M.

Furguson, William Joseph
Garner, George Huet, l'. M.
Garrett, Arthur OweJt
Gaston, William Wall!'ce, Jr,
Gantt, Arthur Durham
Gearhart, Wilber Fiske
Gelston, Thomas Norton
Gill, Paul Carl
Gillet, Lym&.n Elsworth
Gittings, Ason R.
Grandier, Frank
Gray, Charles Peter
Green, Jay Homer
Greene, Wilber Eugene
Grier, Samuel Wood
Gunn, Chester Douglas
Hailey, Robert Coleman
Hakes, Charles Clilfqrd
Hakes, Ledyard Burdette
Halbretter, William
Hall, Wilbert Nathan
Halley, Robert Taylor
Hansen, George
Hardy, Charles Saunders
Harris, Felix
Harrison, George Richard
Haxton, Arthur Burton
Haley, George Allen
Hays, Robert
Henning, Thomas James
Hertzbrun, Jacob Seymore
Hess, George
Hinman, Artl)ur Louis
Hitchcock, Tim Henry
Hoag, Irwin Warren
Hoar, Thomas Charles
Hoberecht, Albert
Hoffman, Eugene Max
Holbrook, William .r"~ome
Holmquist, Claus
Holmquist, Carl Alfred
Holt, Lloyd
HortLb~<;k, Edson A,
Horstman, Arthur William
Howe, Henry ,

Hower, Robert Milton
Hulburd, Ebenezer Wallace
Hyers, Fred Corneliu11, P. M.
Ingram, Wm. Baker
Ireland, Joseph
Irones, Rutherford Buchard
Jackson, Fred 'k Otho
,Tennings, }'rank New1Jy
.Johnston, John D.
Johnstone, Albert Edward, P. M.
Johnstone, Harry Smith
Johnstone, James Simpson
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Asa Roderick
Jones, William Del
Julian, Charles Hueston
Kaford, Theo. LQ.Wl'e:nce
Kaidel, John Theo.
Kearney, John Edgar
Keith, Weldon Albert
Kelly, John Lincoln
King, Enoch Leander
Kinser, Enoch Calvin
Klein, David
Klein, Joseph
Kneale, Thomas
Kneale, William
Kurtz, John Bloxham
Kuter, Carl Edward
Landis, Williem
Layman, Euiene Milton
Lawson, James
Lees, WilJiam Franklin
Linda!, Jacob
MacKenzie, Alfred Gordon
Malmberg, Nils
Manny, John Gay
Marks, Char!Elt! Leonard, P. M.
Marshall, Oscar Darlington
Marshall, Otta
Martin, David Senter
Martinson, GeoPge Morenton
Macfarlane, Paul William
McAllister, Albart
McBride, Arthur Charles

,
476

McCreesh, Wm. Charles
McDnell, Charles Edward
McGar, Percy Herbert
McKenzie, Bernard Wright
McKenzie, George M.
Mcinnis, Magness
Merrill, John Gale
Mertzman, Frank
Meza, Gustave
Moore, Arthur Eugene
Moran, Alford
Morey, Charles Eugene
Naylor, Francis Bryon
Neely, William Thomas
Newcomb, Richard Lawrence
0 'Farrell, Fred
0 'Neil, Jam es Clifford
Olson, Robert Emil
Paine; Castanus
Pandel, Michael
Parker, George Archibald
Parker, Peter James
Parkhurst, Walter
Parks, George Milton
Parks, George Washington
Payne, Thomas
Peak, James Hoadley
Peterson, William James
Phillips, Edwin Theophilus
Phillips, George And~ew
Phillips, George Washington
PhillipB, Herbert D.
Pohonoe, Albert Abiff
Pierce, Julian Clayton
Pollock, Harold Kent
Provin, H. Clyde
Quayle, Charles
Quitsow, Marius Hansen
Rafert, William Henry
Rand.all, Francis Marion
R·ehn, George William
Reinfrank, George Frank
Robinson, Fred Hanson
Robinson, Malcom Cameron
Robinson, Thomas

ROSTER
Rgckhill, Clement
Rude, Clark Burgess
Santee, Addison J.
Schenck, Wesley William
Schlesinger, Louis
Schrader, Adolph
Schrader, Charles Adolph
Schultheiss, Herman Martin
Scrivener, William Douglas
Shaw, Francis Albert Thomson
Shepard, William Milton
Sill, Peter
Sillman, Guy Cummings
Slater, Charles Denison
Smith, Everet Owens
Smith, Ernest Howard
Smith, Henry Francis
Smith, WiHiam Henry
Smith, William Mifflin
Snyder, Nelson Spencer
Solter, Edwin Morris
Spriggs, Frederick Henry
Stafford, John
Stalnaker, Russell Howard
Stanley, Thomas Donald
Stead, Grove DeForest
Steade, James Milton
Steinbach, Louis, Jr.
Sweet, Adelbert Hiram, P. M. .
SymonR, John Quiller
Taber, Homer Galen
Tarr, Clarence Lincoln
Taylor, Archibald, P. M.
Taylor, Robert William
Telson, Frank Callson
Thompson, Ellis Howard
Thorp, Milton Rollin
Toms, George Ernest
Tounsend, Lester Folkes
Trachsel, William Riard
Trepte, Moritz
Updegraff, William Henry
Van Blarcom, William Dixon, Jr.
Vergon, James
Wade, William Edward.

ROSTER
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Walker, James Henry Morgan
Walke, William
Wandry, Bruno John
Watkins, Archie E.
Watkins, Edwin Phillip
Weiland, Edward Lewis
W elisch, Herman
Wellington, Charles Irwin
Wellington, Roy Connor
Wendel, Frederick
Westcott, John Clark
Wheeler, James Samuel
White, Martin Grove

477

Wilson, William
Willard, Harry M.
Winter, Max
Wittemore, Arthur Dewitt
Wolf, Edward Wm. Julius Lewi11
,Wolfson, Dagobert
Woolman, Claude
Wood, John Andrew.
Wright, Charles Robert
Wright, Orlando S.
Wroughton, Edwin Roy
Ziegler, George Leslie
Ziegler, Piter Baugh
-315

WITHDRAWN:
Bolting, Charles Stewart
Harry, Sidney Curtis
Pahneter, Charles Sumner
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Helms, Ruben Endorns
Davenport, Mayon Stausbm;-y
Jones, Evan Robert
Fuller, George
Thomas, Richard A.

Chapman, George Burton
Dudley, Irving Bedell
Iverson, Iver Bonde

DIED:
Sillifant, Francis James
Sly, George E.
Wood, Royal A.

DUNSMUIR LODGE. No. 297.
Dunsmuir, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Alexander Levy, · Chaplai1i,
James Carson Gardner, Master,
Daniel Levy, Sen:ior Deacon,
Dunsmuir, Cal.
Wm. Jeffrey Hawkins, Sen. Ward., Fernand Henry Dorsaz, Jun. Deac.,
Frank Lincoln W earner, Jun. Ward., Francis Cuming Nourse, Marshai,
Henry S. Herron, Steward,
Gustav Albert Hutaff, Treasurer,
Delbert Wesley Kilborn, Secretary, . Joseph Levy, Steward,
Mathias C. Schandel, Tyler.
Dunsmuir, Cal.

HS

ROSTER
MEMBERS:

Anderson, Fred
Atkins, John Hugh
Banneld, Harty wentworth
Bates, Sidney Lloyd
Beard, John Augustus
Beecher, Gus Clements
Benson, Harry ·valentine
Bowen, Elisha J.
Brazelton, Marion William
Brown, Herbert Ernest
Bryan, Percy Abbott
Campbell, John Milton
Carnahan, Charles Abraham
Clark, George Burt
Clark, Shelton
Cornish, Joseph Edwin
Culver, Alex. Eugene
Culver, James Dallas
Cuvellier, Rene William
Dolensky, Rudolph
Dougherty, Charles Fremont
Duggan, Charles Martin
Du Bose, John Evans
Dunn, Byron Franklin, P. M.
Elfendahl, Ernest William
Ellis, WilHam Ned
Emerson, Ralph Waldo P. M.
Engwicht, George
'
Eubanks, Calvin
Fitz Gerald, John Willard
Flynn, Robert Purcell
Gardner, James Carson
Gotthold, Julius Charles
Grant, Joseph Clement
Hallisey, Jam es
Harrison, Charles
Harter, Albert Ely
Hawkins, Jeffrey William p
' .M.
H erron, Henry s.
Hill, Samuel Henry
Hobart, Frederick Edward
Hollis, Fred John .
Hughes, John Stowell

Huls, Howard Ellsworth
Hunter, Robert
Hutaff, Gustav Albert, p, M.
Ibach, Charles Wilmar
Jenkins, Walter ~torey
Judy, Fred Vardan
Kilborn, Hatry Alden
Lambert, Luther Jackson
Land, Henry Augustne
Lee, William Robert · ·
Leight, William Alexander
Levy, Alex., P. M.
Levy, Joseph
Malone, George Edward
Marriner, Wilbert Plimington
Maxey, Walter Lewis
McCoy, George Watson, P. M.
McCoy, William Henry
Millnru, George EJlis
Miller, Henry Valentine
Neeley, David Arthur
Nourse, Francis Cumming, P. M.
Nunamaker, Walter D.
Reagan, Edwin D.
Roberts, William Bailey, P. M.
Robertshaw, Jamee
Russell, James E<lward
Salzman, George S.
Snnford, William Elmer
Saunders, James Lee
Schemmerling, Frederick Gustav
Schandel, Matthias Charles
Schultze, William Austin
Shearer, George Edward
Silva, Louis
Small, William Thomas
Smith, Ernest William
Stuckey, Harrison F.
Tarter, Horace Van
Thompson, Charles Elliott
Trudgeon. William George
Victory, W. H . · .
· Walters, John William

ROSTER
Wal thers, Harry Lincoln, P. M.
Ward, Charles Rawson
Weamer, Frank Lincoln
Wendell, Charlie Claude
Wentz, Henry
Wheeler, George Maurice
Wickes, Charles Eleworth.
Fuller, Louie Clark

479

Wilcox, Robert Burns
Wilkins, Alva Roswell
Williams, Albert Bpeneer
Williams, Walter Lee
Wilson, Harry W.
Winne, Charles W.

-99

WITHDRAWN:
Hoffman, Jacob Ziba
Van Vactor, William Emmet
DIED:
Van Vactor, Harold Grant

MOKELUMNE HILL LODGE, No. 298.
Mokelumne Hill, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Clarence A. Berry, Master,
Glencoe, Cal.
Claude T. Smith, Senior Warden,
Thomas C. Peters, Junior Warden,
Frederick Wm. Suessdorf, Treas.,
Eugene E. Bruce, Secretary,
Mokelumne Hill, ·cal.

Barazini, Joseph
Bell, George
Benardi, Frank
Berry, Clarence Allison, P. M.
Blake, Charles Henry
Burce, Eugene Edgar, P. M.
Chaffee, Frank
Champion, .Tobn
Congdon, Edward Philip
Congdon; George Julius
Cortmarsh, Frank Odilon
Cox, James Mason
Day, Charles Eugene, P. M.
Day, Francis Henry, P. M.
Day, John Benjamin

Frank Towle, Chaplain,
Arthur 0. Maasberg, Sen. Deacon,
Richard C. Maasberg, Jun. Deacon,
Jo·seph Dell Orto, Marshal,
John Baptiste Sauve, Steward,
Samuel Louis Davidson, Steward,
George Bell, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Davidson, Samuel Louis
Davoust, William Louis
Dell 'Orto, Joseph
Dondaro, Bartholomew
Emerson, George
Flanders, Addison
Flanders, Henry Scribner
Gnecco, John
Guth, Charles
Harmon, Theodore
Hexter, Louis
Holbrook, Eugene Harvey
Houston, Harry Lee
Jones, Evan Llewellyn
Luke, Simon

480

ROSTER

Lunt, Charles Richard
Schrag, Henry
Maher, Edward
Shute, John William
Massberg, Arthur 0.
Smith, Claude T.
Massberg, Richard C.
Smith, Sidney A.
Mayer, Joseph
Sterling; John Henry
Miller, Ralph Anderson
Suessdorf, Frederick William
Murry, Henry Gordon
Swithenbank, Albert A., P. M.
Pattie, Joseph Henry
Taylor, Thomas William
Peek, Frank Wilson
Thompson, James Thomas
Peters, Thomas Constantine, P. M.
Thompson, Lewis Quinton
Rathbun, Sylvian Ford
Towle, Franklin Zeba
Read, Walter
Walker, John D.
Robinson, William Thomas
Wilson, Bert
Rodonovich, Joseph
Wilson, Thoinas Alex.
Sauve, John Baptiste
Yeager, Weldey Smith
-60

WITHDRAWN:
Clark, Albert P.

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.
Santa Olara, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings the first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Moss Taylor, Master,
George Warren Smith, Chaplai»,
710 Madison St., Santa Clara, Cal.
Nels August Linderoth, Sen. Deat.,
Hamilton Mc Vicar Russell, Sen. W.,
Thornton Delos Webster, Jim. Deac.,
Charles Lee Gruwell, Jun. Warden,
William Creque Raymond, Marshal,
Carl Wesley Haman, Treasurer,
Clarence Lloyd Macdonald, Stewarrl,
W. H. Trogden, Secretary,
Earl Lamb, Steward,
P. 0. Box 562, Santa Clara, Cal. Louis Gairaud, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Frank Yale
Alden, Edward Henry
Angus, John Archie
Ayres, Clarence Mortimer
Baldwin, Sheldon Smith
Bearce, Hubert
Beattie, David A.
Beattie, John Irving
Beattie, Murray
Benjamin, Otho Howard

Berry, Henry Sanford
Berry, John William
Birge, Fred Allen
Bishop, Ezra Francis
Bowdish, Melville Sherwood
Britton, Lewis Henry
Burckard, Loren Edward
Chase, Edward
Chickovich, George John
Chilson, William Charles

ROSTER
Clark, Earl Danforth
Conner, Alfred Woodham
Cox, Jacob Milon, P. M.
Coyne, Robert John
Cramer, George Franklin
Crittenden, Bradford S.
Darling, Paul Lindsley
Davidson, James Nelson
Dillon, Robert
Dixon, Mathew Alexander
Downing, George Lucas, P. M.
Durling, Perry Douglas
Eberhard, Henry Philip
Eberhard, John Jacob
Eberhard, Oscar Michael
Elkins, Frank Edgar
!. ;:
Emig, Frank Benjiman
Falconer, James
Farley, Nye Lincoln
Fletcher, Alex. B.
Fredericksen, Adolph Peter
Gairaud, Louis
Gallup, Howard Augustus
Glendenning, James Edward
Goodrich, Edward Elizer
<Jordon, Harry Virgil
Gruwell, Charles Lee
Gruwell, Lawrence Chriss
Hall, Wallace Johnson
Haman, Carl Wesley, P . M.
Hamilton, George Edward
Hamilton, Henry John
Hanscom, James Duane, P. M.
Hargreaves, Robert Henry
Harris, Albert
Hart, Richard Franklin, P. M.
Hayward, Wm. Frank
Hersey, Edward Johnson
Hillis, John Ralph
Hobson, Jesse Iris
Horst, William, Jr.
Hutchinson, James
Irwin, Samuel Joseph
Isham, Wallace Place
31

-181

Jackson, Newton Senter
Johnson, Carl Frederick
Johnson, Hans Christian
Johnson, William Henry
Karr, John Martin
Kenyon, Eugene Crouse
Killam, Amos Franklin
Kimberlin, Louis Melvin, P. M.
Kohner, lgnatz
Kohner, Max, P. M.
Lamb, Earl
Landrum, Andrew Jefferson, P. M.
Landrum, Thomas Moore
Leonard, John
Lillick, Harry Andrew
'
'I
Linderoth, Nels August
Long, Barney King
I,ong, Lafayette
MacDonald, Clarence Lloyd
Machefert, Frederick Leon Emile
MacSwain, Alex. Reginald
Maddox, Daniel Irwin
Martin, Dougald Emmet
Mcintyre, Cyrus Albert
McWilliams, Glen
Menzel, George Teaford
Menzel, Henry August
Menzel, Robert Frank
Menzel, Robert, P. M.
Miller, Calvin Wilson
Miller, John James
Moore, John Thomas
Morling, Octavius Josiah
Morrison, John Cameron, P. M.
Morrison, Kenneth
Morrison, Lewis John
Muller, Otto
Myers, Horace Asbury, P. M.
Nelson, Virgil Elliott
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphus, P. M.
Packscher, Maurice Goodtime
·Parker, Joseph McConnell, P. M.
Parker, Wilber Fiske
Percival, Freeman Foster

ROS'rE!R

482

Peterson, Antone
Phelps, Frank Dale
Pfister, Henty Adolph
Putnam, '!'arrant
Quivey, Willard Henry
Raymond, William Creque, P. M.
Rayner, Thomas Elkanllh
Regnart, Carl Wetherell
Regnart, Percy Sfoart, P. M.
Relph, Ovid Samuel
Rhodes, Jay Cloyd Barras
Roberts, Franklin Htitlty
Roberts, William :E:dwttrd
Roberts, William Henty
Roll, August Edward
Roll, John
Roop, George Benjamin
Rowe, Geo. David
Rucker, Robert Russel
Rusconi, Vincent
Russell, Alex. Allen McVicar
Russon, Hamilton McVicar
Russell, Lawtence
Schiermeyer, Christopher J.
Shields, James Ralph
ShieMs, .Tames Robert, P. M.
Smith, Frank Nichols
Smith, George Warren
Smith, Spencer Monroe

Smith, Thomas Hettty
smith, William Henry
Snively, Daniel
Stelling, Henry Gottlieb
Stocking, Leonard Emiah
Taylor, John Moss
Teubner, Gustave Louis
Thompson, 'fbotna11 S.
Trevarrow, Anthony
Trogden, Wiley Hudelston, P. M . .
Tully, George Franklin
'l'ully, Sylvanml Giles
Underwood, Alex. Richard
Van Dine, Melvin Everett
Viets, Edgar John .
Waelty, Edward Henrv
Wallace, David Norman
Waste, John Morton
Webster, Thornton Delos
Werner, William Henry
Wilkinson, Samnel Walhvorth
Williams, Harry Lee
Withrow, Ralph Vargrave
Wood, Willard Abraham
Woodstock, William Douglas
Worrall, George R.
Worthington, Joseph Sharp
Wren, John Arthur
Zumwalt, Don John
-166

WITHDRAWN:
Bohannan, Willis George
Goet;, Christian Herman
Osborne, Antrim Edgar
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Thompson, John Homer
Matthews, Arthur James
SUSPENDRD FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Street, William Roe
Alderman, Fred Alton
Baker, Edward James

DIED:
Barli, Allessandro Luciani
Moore, Charles Edward

:ROSTEJR

REDLANDS LODGE, No.

483

300.

Redlands, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each nt&nth.
OFFICERS:
Charles Elliott Latham, Maoter.
George S. Hinckley, Sen. Deacon,
Redlands, Cal.
William Allen Hartman, Jun. Deac.,
Homer P. D. Kingsbury, Sen. W., J ames Albert Stolte, Marshal,
Charles Herbert Covell, Jun. Ward., Rees Dovies, Steward,
Robert Morris Hamilton, Treasurer, Charles Edward Fuller Steward
Otto George Suess, Secretary,
Samuel S. Waldo, Tyle~.
'
Redlands, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Abbey, Charles Coy
Bryan, Edwin Horace
Alex, John Francis
Burk, Carl Gustave
Allen, Halsey Warren, P . M.
Cameron, Andrew Charles
Ansley, Jamel! Gilbert
Campbell, Walter MoNuit, P. M:.
Ash, John Marshall
Cannon, Burton Eugene
Austin, Milton Frye
Carlson, Carl Otto
Barker, George Henry
Case, Alonzo
Barton, William Thomas
Cave, Bennett White
Ball, Archibald E.
Champion, Fred
Baughman, Charles H.
Churchill, Lucius F.
Bay, Alva Clinton
Clark, Fred Adam
Beer, James Clark
Clark, Lemuel Watson
Benson, Ralph Wllllarh
Clement, Henry George
Biggen, George Stahley
Clock, Charles Livingston
Bill, Wm. Thomas
Clock, Charles lI.
Birch, James
Clock, Fred H ., P. M.
Bishop, Peter Stephen
Collins, A. Harvey
Bobericlt1 John Joseph
Cook, Alexander Bradshaw
Boden, William Elmer
Cook, Roy
Borden, Robert Winstow
Cook, William Omar
Bosserman, Ancel Thorne
Cope, Edward Mitchell
Bosserman, Frank
·Cortner, George Paul
Bowen, Willard Adam
Covell, Charles Herbert
Bowley, John
Crafts, George Herbert
Branckman, Cornelius
Craig, Albert West
Brock, Archibald El!ison
Davies, Rees
Brown, Charles Col:'ey
Davis, Alva SylveAtet
Brown, Charles Milton, P. M.
Davis, Ch!tles E.
Browning, Charles Clifton
Deck, Lewis
Bninn, Christian P.
Deming, Harvey Clayton

ROSTER

484

485

ROSTER

Dewey, Willet Everett
Donnell, Otto Willis
Dostal, John Frank
Drake, James Frederick, P. M.
Drake, Robert Zale
Ehrenclow, Alfred H.
Estle, Charles Bernard
Fellows, Lewis Merritte
Ferguson, William Tecumseh
Field, Jasper Newton
Fine, William Isaac
Fitzsimmons, Michael H.
Ford, Harry Henderson
Fuller, Charles Edward
Gaines, Harvey Sylvester
Gaylord, Clinton Gilbert
Gore, John Wesley
Grow, Arthur Earl
Guthrie, Edmond Pierce
Hagan, John Reese
Hale, Charles Augustus
Hall, Cassius M.
Hamilton, John W.
Hamilton, Robert Morris, P. M.
Harris, Frederick Thomas
Hartig, Charles S.
Hartman, William Allen
Hatch, Albert Wilson
Hayward, Theron
Heitman, John Barston
Henderson, James
Hendrickson, Andrew Jackson
Herrmann, Frederick
Hewitt, Albert Murray
HiJJ, Howard Gilman
Hinckley, George S.
Hird, John Preston
Hobart, Charles H., P. M.
Hope, Herbert J.
Hough, Ira Millard
Horne, Harry, P . M.
Hoyt, Charles Harmon
Hubbard, Anthony Gerhard
Hunt, Paul Henry
Jackson, William Everett

Johnson, Benton Oscar
Johnson, Nathan Augustus
Johnson, William M.
Keating, Alexander
Kelsey, Carl J.
Kennard, George Gilbert
Kennedy, Duncan
Kerr, John Angus Heber
King, Anderson Whitney
King, Lymon Maurice, J?. M.
Kingsbury, Homer P. Donaldson
Kline, William N.
Koehler, George William
Larue, William T.
Laird, Alex.
Lashlee, Claude Harmon
Latham, Charles Elliott, .P. M .
Leland, George H.
Levering, Noah Lee, P. M.
Link, Sylvester
Long, Frank Law
MacDonald, David Grey
Mason, Richard A.
Mccaslin, James Alex.
McCoy, Henry Angus
McNairn, WiJJiam Daniel
McWhorter, Cyrus S~
Medland, Thomas James
Medland, William
Meserve, Frank Pierce, P. M.
Metcalf, Walter Gastick
Milligan, Joseph C.
Montgomery, Ge·o rge Washington
Montigel, Ferdinand
Montigel, James Ralph
Montigel, William Hildreth
Moore, Andrew A.
Moore, Elliott Augustus
Moore, Paul Walter
Moore, William Herbert
Morris, George H.
Morrison, Frank Pierce
Mosbough, Edwin Harvey
Neuls, Geo. W.
Neuls, Joseph Dale

Stearns, Augustus George
Nutter, Frank Wilbur
Steele, Louis Seymour
Ogden, Thomas Albert
Stefan, Frederick Joseph
0 'Kelley, Robert Charles
Stewart, WiJJiam Hugh
Osbu'n, Albert
Stone, James Albert, P. M.
Peel, Thomas Leopold
Phinney, Mellen Davis
Sucher, Gordon Edgar
Suess, Jacob John, P. M.
Phinney, Mellen Mosher
Pierce, Martin Frank, P. M.
Suess, Otto George
Plano, Wm. Frank
Tayler, G_eorge Frank
Taylor, Albert Edwin, P. M.
"Pondstone, Jacob
Thaxter, George C.
Pool, George Anthony
Porter, Orin
Thornquist, John Theodore
Prendergast, Jeffrey Joseph, P. M. Thornton, Thomas
Putnam, Willis E.
True, Alfred Adam
Pyle, William Lamborn, P. M.
Truesdell, Charles E.
Reed, David Craig, P. M.
Tuck, Edward Payson
Tyler, Hoell
Reesor, Arthur E.
Vahey, Charles E.
Reid, Clarence Samuel
Van Leuven, William Henry
Richards.on, John Franklin
Rivera, Joseph Apollo
Walcha, Albert George
Rockwell, Sidney Eason
•Waldo, Samuel S.
Rowe, George Wallingford
Wallace, John Easton
Rucher, Rolle John
Watson, Wm. V.
Sanborn, Christopher Allen
Wells, Karl Colby
Sanborn, Clifton E.
White, WiJJiarn Lewis
Sanford, Frank Eugene
Wilkins, Charles Henry ·
Seager, Herbert W.
Williams, Silas
Sellers, Cormi P.
WiJJinms, William Griffiths
Setchtl.eld, Richard
Wilmot, Paul Walter
Show, David Augustus
Wilshire, Bert Loarn
Shuford, Thomas Robert
Wolltl.n, George Hugh
Woodside, William
Skuce, Charles Elbin
Worley, Henry Elmer
Smith, ~ydney Trowbridge
Wright, Carey Thomas
Sparks, David Ernest
Sparks, Earl Leland
Yost, Charles
Springberg, Alfred Emile
Zimmerman, Milton
-222
Bailey, Charles Frederick
Howland, Rollie Miller

WITHDRAWN:
*Sieghold, WiJJiam Henry
WiJJiamsoil, George

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burns, Ulysses Grant
Coffee, Luen
*Restored during the year.

ROSTER

ROSTER

-!86

DIED:

Easter, John Day
Eaton, Clement Hiind
Hart, Alexander Hamilton
Hartzell, Joshua

Lansdon, Lincoln E.
Reeder, Thomas Benton
Steward, Joseph lreland
Warren, Eugene Charles

ONTARIO LODGE, No.

301.

Ontario, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Isaac Jones, Master,
........................, Senior D facon,
Ontario, Cal.
John Ralph Steele, Ju1i. Deacon,
Kennith Dunbar Blaikie, Sen. Ward,, Benj. Franklin W a rrner, Marshal,
James Perry Reed, Jun. Warilen,
Howard Berg, $t~war¢,
Cornelius Orwig Brackenridge, Se,., William Earl Ellis, Stfwarq,
Ontario, Cal.
Ii<iac Whitaker Whitaker, Tyler.
Wilbur Walstein Smith, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Campbell, William J Qhn
Abrams, Elijah Danforth
Caldwell, Edward Yollom
Andrews, J osia11 J.
Catto, William
Armstrong, Abel
Uheel, Stanley George
Armstrong, Joh?J Samuel
Chipps, William Glay
Bates, William Wh11atley
Clarke, John A.
Beesley, George Edward
Cohn, John Edward
Beesley, John Geprge
Cook, Joseph Brady
Bennink, Cornelius G. l!enry
Cramley, Frank Hilgurt
Berg, Howard
Cutler, Lewis Ta~heirl\
Berger, John Heury
De Arman, Frank Truudell
Berger, Sheridan G.
Deverts, Charles Oliver
Bernhig, Augustus
Donnelly, Thomas
Blaikie, K enneth Dunbar
Dl!rfee, Ulysses Grant
Blaikie, William Francis, P. M.
Dysart, · Franch J.
Blain, Charl111 Eldward, P. M.
Elliott, George Bethel
Brackenridge, Robert 01wig
Ensley, Oliver Perry
Brunner, Edward
Fairall, William Tilman
Burleson, Esta Bernard
Fallis, George Frederick
Bybee, Eugene S.
Ford, Charles Benjamin, P. M.
Bybee, Geo. McClellan

Frankish, Charles
Fredendall, John Frank
Freemire, Wellington A.
Frost, John
Frost, Wilham Henry
Fuller, Everett Hampton
Gaither, Oscar La Rude
Garbutt, Ross Petch
Gillett, Mortimer Spencer
Glass, Silas Franklin
Glenn, Byron Price
Gottwald, Otto
Greene, William Stevenson
H a nd, Clifford Nott
Hatcher, James Henderson, P. M.
Hawkinson, Nels Wm.
Henry, Everett Wilfred
Henry, William Penn
Hickox, Clark Albert
Hill, Eugene Leroy
Hodgkins, William Wirt
Holbrook, George Robert
Holbrook, Jay
Howard, George F.
Hubbell, Harold C•.
Huehn, John Norman
Ingalls, John Stewart
Jesson, Jacob
Jesson, Robert Harold
Johnston, George Francis
Jones, Isaao
Jones, James C.
Kustel, Cassimir Berringer
Lee, Dorr B.
I,ec, Lane R.
Leeson, Richard H.
Linder, Lee
Lord, George Johnston
Maben, JaY. D.
Magill, Robert David
Malone, William Lewis
Mann, Bathurst Billere
McCann, Lewis Erastus
M11Crea, George Arthur
McMinn, James L.

i87

McQuigg, Martin Van Bure;n, P. ]![.
Merrill, Lewi.JI E. .
Merrill, William Kern
Minter; Frank
Moore, Cassius Fremont
Morris, John Todd
Morrison, Angus M.
Murphy, William Roe
'
Nigh, Leon Everett
Parkford, Edwin Alston
Payne, Ernest Ellsworth
Payne, Jesse Howard
Payne, William Edward
Phillips, John Henry
Poole, Thomas
Price, Jesse Alves
Reed, James Perry
Riggs, Benjamin H.
Ripple, John Raymond
Ripple, Lewis
Robertson, John Polk
Rosenberger, William Dayton
Ross, Frank Augustus
Russell, Solon Young
Schwuchow, Walter Bernard
Scott, John
Shattuck, Howard Montrose
Shay, Henry James
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey, P . M.
Sheppard, Christopher
Short, Richard Childs
Smith, Benj. Alexis
Smith, James St. Clair
Smith, Lovias Oliver Perry H .
Smith, Wilbur Walstein, P. M.
Spencer, John
Spencer, Ripley F.
Spies, Henry Alvin
Stang, Louis George
Steele, John Ralph
Steele, William Perry
Thompson, Albert Henry
1Jnholz, Frederick Edward
Vannegrift, Samuel G.
Van W ie, Clarence Deuel

·i

ROSTER

488
Watson, George Gaylord
Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
Whitford, Samuel
·Childs, George J.
Fuller, Elijah Pierce

Williams, Bertram Eldred
Wright, Jake Cullen
Zenze, Anton

ROSTER

·-i36

WITHDRAWN:
Kelsey, Carl J.
Woods, Henry D.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dyar, Guy Edward
Caldwell, John Vollum
Faron, Lewis Hoile
Collings, Constantine
Martin, Ora Fenner
Case, George McClellan
Gray, Robert

DIED:
Gale, Augustus J.
Lageschulte, Harry F.
Moore, Albert Dean

SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.
King City, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

George, Joseph Wm.
Giacomazzi, Silviero Frank
Goldstine, Aaron
Hall, Herbert
Hamilton, Thomas Scott
Hamilton, William Clayton. P. M.
Hanning, Charles Albert
Harbolt, John Fielding
HarriA, Robe.r t Uriah
Head, William Richard K.
Henry, George Philip, P. M.
Juhl, Gregorious Frederick
Kent, Henry Arthur
Lang, Hans Jasperson
Lees·e, David
Lumley, Walter Johnston, P. M.
Mann, Wm. Joseph
Mardon, John B.
McReynolds, Arthur Benoni
Montgomery, Herbert Chester
Palmer, Frank Lovell
Patterson, Alex., P. M.

OFFICERS:

Robert Ralston Allen, Master,
George Philip Henry, Chaplain,
King City, Cal.
Walter Johnston Lumley, Sen. D.,
John Baptiste Campbell, Sen. W.,
John Fielding Harbolt, Jun. Deac.,
William Clayto~ Hamilton, Jun. W., J otgen Christian Falkenberg, Mar.,
H enry E dward Wetzel, Treasurer, A aron Goldstine, Jr., Stewa.rd,
Johan .Alfred Carlson, Secretary,
H arry Boggis, Steward,
King City, Cal.
Raymond Christ'n Falkenberg, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Buckhart, Charles Murray
Aaroe, Anton
Bunte, Hei:man Dietrich
Allen, Robert Ralston, P. M.
Bunte, Samuel Nahman
Allen, William Robert
Annear, William
Burrows, Hubert Augustus
Caldwell, George
Basham, Robert Matteson
Campbell, John Baptiste
Beane, John Worlock
Carlson, Johan Alfred
Beebe, Frank Merritt, P. M.
Copley1 Andrew Jackson
Besse, John Nelson, P. M.
Cowan, Walter Thomas
'Bingaman, Elmer Wiley
Boggis, Harry
Domianovich, Charles Frank
Branstetter, William M., P. M.
Falkenberg, Jorgen Christian, P. M.
Brown, James M.
Gates, Frederick Wm.

Keefe, Melvin Robert

489

Prewitt, John Calhoun
Rest, Albert A.
Rice, John Henry
Sainz, Robert
Sawyer, Charles Waite
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schumann, Hugo Joseph
Smith, Percy Hatton
Steiner, Chas. Leopold
Stevenson, William Grant, P. M.
Talbot, David Paul
·
Thorpe, George C.
Tomaso, Franscioni
T.ompkins, Herman N.
Van Derhoof, Delbut Rea
Wallis, Daniel Whitfield
Westlake, Frank Harloe, P. M.
Wetzel, Harry Edward
Witham, James Edward
Woods, Albion Oalis
Woods, Walter Trew

-67

WITHDRAWN:
Itogers, Robert james

DIED:
I,andrum, Joseph McKin.dric

PORTERVILLE LODGE, No. 303.
Porterville, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Abed William Carr, Master,
Jacob Franklin Boller, Chaplain,
P orterville, Cal.
Herman Sumner Templeton, S. D .,
John August Leslie, Sen. Ward.,
Charles Thompson Holston, J. D .,
Charles Clark Farnsworth, J. W., Allan Rutherford Laidlaw, Marshal,
Milko Mentz, Treas.
Louis Emile Badoux, Steward,
George Christopher Murphy, S ec., Edwa rd Grant Shore, Steward,
Porterville, Cal.
Gustave August Eckman, Tyler.

490

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Foster, Lincoln G.
Abbey, Laurence Ernest
Frame, Harvey Andrew
Aitken, Thomas Gardner
Frame, Jesse Elmer
Allen, Benjamin
Fra11kum, George Taylor
Badoux, Louis Emile
George, Calvin Harold
Baker, Nils
Gilbert, Samuel Jonathan R., P. M.
Baker, Swan
Grant, Walter Adams
·
Baier, Phillip Murray
Grant, William Henry
Barbero, Qharlel! Gardner
Greenough, Carl Rutherford
Barbero, Harry Lee
Bearse, Frederick Ellsworth, P. M. Guthrie, Chas. Lester
Hale, George Hoyle
Bearss, John Theo.
Hall, John Dallas
Bird, Arthur Reginald
Hathaway, Harry May
Black, Franklin Ellsworth
Hayes, George
Bolfing, Charles Thomp.s
Hayes, James Crayton
Boller, Frank Villette
Henderson, Thomas Edward
Boller, Jacob Franklin, P. M.
Henry, Rufus Francis
Brey, Hiram F., P. M.
Hewey, John William Ernest
Brooks, William Herbert
Higgins, Charles Raymond
Bryant, Albert Geo.
Higgins, Orient C.
Burford, Marvin Alvah
Higgins, Robert Musgrave
Bushey, Rollin Lee
Hodges, Charles Parker
Buswell, Charles William
Holston, Chas. ThQmpson
Carpenter, Byron L,
Hoobler, Samuel ·
Carr, Harry Cumming
Hoover, Joseph Laird
Carr, John Lawrence
Horbach, Robert, P." M.
Carr, Obed William, P. M.
Hornbeak, Hugh Harland
Carter, Henry Barton
Hornbeak, Montgomery Adams
Castle, Wm. Hastings
Hough, S~ymour Strong
Clark, Frank
Howell, James
Claubes, Leslie Vineyard
Howell, John Andrew
Claubes, Henry Ewing
Hughel!, John Hugh
Claubes, Todd Cornelius, P. M.
James, John Henry
Colyer, James Thomas
Kennedy, Frank L.
Conger, Chai. . Thompson
Kessler, Joseph Pyle
Cramer, Moses Lockhart
Kiler, Wm. Henry
Cruickshank, William
King, Guilford Dudley
Da vid8on, Frank Marion
Kunuth, Walter Anthony
DeWitt, Marcus Elmo
Ekman, Gustaf Adolf
Laidlaw, Allan Rutherford, P. M.
Lambdin, Harry Willis
Etter, Henry
Laney, Archie Franklin
Farnsworth. Charle~ Olark, Jr.
Langford, Geo. Sherman
Feemster, Robert Fra11k
Laumeister, Leslie William
Flaugher, Johll Daulton

:ROSTER
Sayre, Alfred Miller
Lawrence, George Edward
Leslie, Andrew
fil<1lmlz, Adolpl\ Gustave, P. M.
Leslie, Andrew Allan
S<;huh;, Harry August, P. M.
Schulz, Lou Erne~t
Leslie, Frederick Arthur
Scott, Eugene Louis
Leslie, John August
Settle, James Pendleton
Leslie, William Walter
Shippey, Walter Sylvester, P. M.
Lewis, James Sylvanqs
Shore, Edward Grant
Lockyer, George
Southwick, Frank Herbert
Lockyer, John Burns
Stone, Frederick
Lucy, Cornelius Joshua
Sturm, Daniel
Lumley, Aubrey Monta6tue
Sutherland, Bert John
Masner, Joseph Wilfert
'l'aylor, Elmore Rice .
McAulifi', Leslie
Templeton, Herman Sumner
McCourt, Chester Elwood
Templeton, Huj!'h
McDonald, Robert Henry
Mcintyre, Thomas
Templeton, John Lee
Templeton, Sardis Wilcox
McKeany, Edward Montgomery
Terwilligan, Albert
Mentz, Wilko
Traeger, Charles Albert
Mitchell, Joseph
Traeger, Henry Godfrey
Mitchell, Michael
Ulmer, Joseph Ames
Moomaw, John Wesley
Velie, Fred Ward, P. M.
Mooney, William J .
Murphy, George Christopher, P. M. Wade, Joseph Goleman
Ward, Jackson Orin
Murray, Allan
Weed, Clarence Hampton
Murry, George Gordon
Wessman, John August
Myrick, Francis Bryan
White, Ernest Nathamel
Nesbitt, Charles Wesley
White, James Smith
Newbury, Andrew Jackson B.
Owen, Levi Milton
Williams, Robert George, P. M.
Williams, Robert Geo., Jr.
Parsons, Adam Riggs
Parsons, Chas. Jenkins
Williamson, George Alfred
Parsons, Elmus Fisher
Willis, George Watson
Winters, Lewis Williams
Phillips, William Bamber
Wolff, Morris
Pohlman, Lea Louis
Price, Thomas .Lawrence
Woodley, Frank Erwin
Putnam, Willie Porter
Wright, Hiram :Roy
Reinhardt, Harry Joseph
Wright, Joseph Franklin, p; M.
Reynolds, Amoa l{,
Wright, William Whitfield
Root, Corydon Bee
Young, William Moofe
-164
WITHDRAWN:
:Rqbbini, Oalirge Lo vell
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lord, Mount Clo11rl

ROSTER

492

ROSTER

REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MEMBERS:
Hicks, John Collins
Acker, Arthur Van
Hill, Roland Varian
Barnes, Charley Leveritte
Howell, Charles Franklin
Bartos, Paul V.
Jones, Chester Clarke R.
Beaule, Max W., P. M.
Larsen, Nels
Bollinger, Albert Thomas
Lombardi, Julius Caesar
Bollinger, John Franklin
. Mathews, Carey Woods
Caesar, Thomas
McBriar, John
Chisholm, Joseph Robert
McClanahan, Allen Ensley
Clark, William Henry
McCubbin, John Cameron
Coffin, Christian August
Moomaw, Joseph Burson·
Crosby, Albert Canning, P. M.
Neil, William Rice
Crosby, Everett Wilber
Osterhout, Frank Edward
Crossfield, Otto J ohannis
Rankine, Alex
Davies, Walter Young
Rankine, John
Davis, E. W.
Reed, Daniel Lyle
Deneen, Marion
Shaffer, Harry Michael
Gebhart, Erastus Manford
Shipe, James Walker
Green, William Wesley
Simpson, Albert Taylor
Greene, .Frederick L.
Simpson, David Calvin
Hagan, Steen
Steele, Chas. Arthur
Hale, Clarence Alvin
Studley, Frank E.
Hansen, Frank W.
Tice, Eldon Webb
Harkleroad, Geo. A.
Wasgatt, Frederick Marcon
Hathaway, Roswell Rube
Hawkins, George Augustus, P. M. Wilson, Leon A.
Winnes, Harry Frank · ·
Hawkins, William Lard
"'~THDRA WN:

Dewhirst, Roy Daniel
McDonald, D11vid Chalmers

Sowell, William Henry
*Snook, Earl Elwood

SUSPENDED li'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Neil, James Polk
Gummow, Charles
Thomas, John Neil
Lowry, John Hinton
•Degrees conferred during the year.

Azusa, Los Angeles County.

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

-52

Akard, John Hopkins
Anderson, Juliu.s Hickok
Atkinson, Wm. Auburn
Barker, William Thomas
Beardslee, David Arthur
Beardslee, Joseph Newton
Bernard, Kenneth Lee
Berner, Orlando James
Bierbower, Hugh Reed
Briggs, Henry Dwight
Brumbley, Joseph Eastman
Burt, Oscar Marshall
Callins, John Stevenson
Calvert, John William, P. M.
Carpenter, Frank A.
Casey, Charles Clark
Coffin, Mathew James
Coffman, Charles Henry
Cole, Winfield Scott
Crickmore, Joseph Clinton
Daly, John E.
Davis, William Allan
Dingman, Frank Lincoln
Dougherty, William Emmet
Ellis, Samuel Augusta, P. M.
Glover, George Edwin
Gordon, Walace
Hall, Hiram Thomas
Heimbaugh, James Wilson
Helsby, Edgar Ellis
Heth, Thomas F., P. M.
Heth, Walter Isaac
Heth, William W., P. M.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Jerome, Jesse Julius .
Juden, George Washington
Kaufman, Frank Enos
Ktltchum, Isaac .Williams
King, Dana Charles
Lee, Charles Henry, P. M.
MacDonald, Edwsr<l Andrew
Mace, Chas. Ernest
Mace, Edwin, P. M.
Martens, George, P. M.
Mattatall, Levi Peter
Meier, August Louis
Millis, Samuel B.
Mullholland, Chas. Bradley
Owen, Albert Galatin
Petree, Oran Adrian
Poage, Leland Stark
Ramsaur, Ben Walker
Ramsaur, Robert Shuford
Ream, Charles Oscar, P. M.
Richardson, Charles Frederfok
Richter, Ernest George
Roach, Arving David
Robertson, Benjamin Columbus
Robinson, George Leroy
Rury, William Isaac
Savage, Chester Alfred
Sheldon, William Adams, P. M.
Singleton, Wm. D.
Sitton, Jerry
Smith, Conrad Leslie, P. M.
Smith, Delta Cornelius
Smith, Henry James

493

ROSTER

ROSTER

494
Soloman, Edward
Stark, Riney
Streshly, William Orlando
Stuart, Samuel James, P. M.
Thompson, Theodore Tilden
Turner, Joshua Sherwood

Wade, Willard J., P. M.
Ward, Herbert Ellsworth
Weeks, George Warren, P. M.
Wetherby, John Francis
Wilion, Hiram L.
Woodward, John Geoffrey

-18

WITHDRAWN:
*Dodsworth, Robert Metcalf
Parkinson1 Henry Fitzgerald
Rice, Elmer Vesligo
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Flick, Daniel Thomas
Clark, Fred Longworth
Fox, Edward Albert
Crane, Edgar Willis
Moran, George Wallace
Noel, Charles Lee
Foot, John Lafayette
McNair, William Righten
•Affil!ated during the year.

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.
Colton, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS :
Eugene William Cosgrove, Master, Thomas Charles Brqwning, Chaplain,
152 North Eighth Street.
William Edley Vaughn, S en. Deac.,
Lyle Wilson Rucker, Sen. W arden, T>heodore Barnwell K elly, Jun. D.,
Cha rles Edward Mead, Jun. W ard., O scar Delfield Guire, Marshal,
Chester W . Curtis, Treasurer, ·
harl J ayson Strock, St~watd,
George David Nichols, Secretary,
Frank Elmer Andrews, Steward,
160 W est E Street.
William F redrick Wilbur, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adkins, Thomas Stanton
Brooks, Silas Fletcher
Ahman, Nathias John
Bruce, Charles Albert
Allen, Robe1t Finley
Bruce, David Frederick
Andrews, John Jay
Batton, Fred Arthur
Andrnvs1 Samuel Edward
Carr, Elijah Goodrich
Bailey, Ralph David
Cn'rr, Harry Millard
Beach, Wesley Heman
Caster, George Brinton, P. M,
Boalich, George
Champion, Jo11ept1 Austin
Bright, Frederick Richard
Clark, Alfred M.onroe
Brink, Irwin William, P. M.
Clark, Ward Ea11tman
Browning, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Coe, George Lyman

Colvin, Elton Samuel
Colyer, Fred Wilber
Cosgrove, Eugene William
IJrawford, Oscar Gerard
CJulross, William Burdick
Curtis, Chester W.
Davidson, Robert Alex.
Deakins, Robert Lee
Devlin, Andrew Jackson
Domecq, Peter John
Eil.dy, Harris Durham
Emery, Ormiston L.
Emery, Robert Hardie
Fancher, William Hoyt
Fisher, Geo. Amasa
Fox, Abram Stoner
Frnzer, Freel
Gleason, Charles Elliot
Gorall, Paul Chas.
Gordon, William Clark
Green, George Matthew, P. M.
Griswold, Alfred Hatch
Guire, Oscar Delfleld, P. M.
Hamerly, John Wash.
Hanna, John Bennett, P. M.
Hanna, Wilson Creal
Hart, Joe 'l'homas
Hays, Wilson
Hebberd, Walter Channing
Hendee,. Thomas Frederick
Henderson, John St. Clair
Higgs, Albert James
Hoag, Chance Montel
Hohnke, Louis Christopher
Johnson, William Curti!
Johnston, Charles Euward
Jones, Henry
Jones, William J .
Kelly, Theo. Barnswell
Knopsnyder, Irwin M.
Lancaster, James Wa8h.
Lanier, Thomas C.
L ant z, Fred'k Otto
Lash, Frank Gilbert

Lee, J~mes Wm.
Lightfoot, Silas Swallow
Macdougall, Ja:tIU!S, P. M.
Madison, Forest Lamont
Martin, Robert Johnston
Marvin, Fred Wilson
McGregor, John
McHargue, Robert Maurice
McLean, William Bernard
McKinney, Ed. Carner.on
McKinney, John Alex.
Mead, Chas. Edward
Ml)ore, Wm . Miritte
Minnick, Albert
Mo11t1et, James Larrison
Nauert; Charles
Newcomer, Lyle Caleb
Nichols, Geo. David
Owen, Frank Henri
Perrin, William Artemas
Pumphrey, William l3yron
Ratlifl', Milton Sexton
Readman, William Harman
Riley, Ray LeGrande
Robinson, Devillo
Rogers, Edwin Garfield
Rucker, L yle W.
Rutherford, John Dew
Sharpe, John Jack
Shepley, Bertie Halsey Wtn. L.
Smith, Howard Burton, P. M.
Smith, Thomas Jatnes
Spring, Adolphus Duane
Starkey, Chai!. Herbert
Stone, Byron Andrew
Stone, William Eli
Strock, Earl Jayson, P. M.
Strong, Donald Watkin!
Swartz, Daniel Crist
Swepston, Mayo Bundy
Thornton, Arthur Gilbert
Vaughn, Wm. Edley
Walsh, H enry Arthur
Warner, Joseph118 Darby

495

ROSTER

ROSTER

496
Warner, Wm. Taylor
Wilber, William Frederick
Wilcox, Wilson Wallace
Glascock, William Leon
Hansen, James William

Wilkerson, Eugene Baker
Wondriee, Charles Henry
Wright, Albert

-116

WITHDRAWN:
·M cLaren, Harry Calvin
Purdum, Wade

DIED:
Butterfield, Minor Clarence

SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 307.
Santa Monica, Los Angeles County.
State<l Meetings, third Friday in each month.
· OFFICERS:

William Newton Barrow, Chaplain,
William Edwin Oliver, Master,
P.O. Box 504, Santa Monica, Cal. Louis Henry Doescher, Sen. Deacon,
Wirt P. Griffiths, Se11ior Warden, Thomas Robinson, Junior Deacon,
Albert David Hawes, Jun. Warden, Charles Ernest Rutledge, Mdrshdl,
John Tyler Brown, Steward,
Frank Walton Cota, Treasurer,
Herbert David Lore, Steward.
Oliver Grant Tullis, Secretary,
Santa Monica, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Cota, Frank Walter
Arkush, Solomon
Crain, Theodore E.
Aurand, Charles B.
Dales, Charles Scott
Balsley, Benjamin Lewis
Dales, Edward Verner, P. M.
Balsley, Ben Randale
Dexter, George Byrd, P. M.
Balsley, John Allen, P. M.
Doescher, Louis Henry
Balsley, Martin Edgar
Dow, Roscoe H.
Barrow, William Newton, P. M.
Dudley, Thomas Horace
Bloye, Herbert Arthur
·Dunham, James Elias, P. M.
Bontty, Edward Frank
Emerson, Edward
Botighner, John D.
Emerick, Joel J.
Boston, Andrew Jackson
Engelbrecht, Henry John
Boxall, William Louis
Failor, Benjamin Franklin
Brown, Joseph Gabel
Finch, Fred Jesse
Browne, John Davidson H.
Folsom, Niles Rathbone, P. M.
Carpenter, Stephen Fisk
Gardner, Jacob Roy
Case, Lynn Hess
Garey, Stephen Thomas
Case, Samuel Hess
Gick, Edward Roy
·
Coffman, Harry Lee
Gidley, Frank Perry
Colton, Albert Newton

Gillis, Robert Carson
Goehring, Herman Franz
Griffitts, Wirt P.
Hamilton, Newell Hiram
Ha.rrington, Roy E.
Hasse, Carl Edward
Hawes, Albert David
Heath, Stacey Ross .
Herlinger, Sefried
Hostetter, William Morgan
Howard, Ray Franklin
Hunt, Albert F.
Hunt, John Stanrlish
Hutton, George Howard
Jackson, Arthur Edmund
.Jackson, James Henry
J1tmison, Allen Muir
Jellison, Bryon Hugh
Jenkins, Robert Chesley
Johnson, David
Keller, Henry Workman, P. M.
Kennedy, James Wash.
Kennedy, John
LaBerge, Joseph Rosario
Lehman, August Herman
Lore, Herbert David
McHenry, William A.
McPherson, A. William
McComas, John Taylor
Miller, Robert Meek
Minger, Irwin Walter
Mooser, Leon Nutin
Mooser, Joseph Nathan
Nichols, John William
Norton, Willis Allen
Oliver, W)ll. Edwin
Peak, Emmet Steadman
Peterson, Lauritz Angkjar
Powell, Perry P.

Powers, Clark Homer
Proctor, John Burton
Pulham, John Alvin
Randall, Ellis E.
Robinson, Thomas
Rogers, Claudius Walton, P. M.
Ruskamp, Chas. D.
Rutledge, Charles Ernest
Schader, Carl Francis
Sherman, Robert Waddell
Shipman, Charles George
Simons, Chas. August
Smith, Nathan Franklin, P. M.
Starbuck, Edwal'd Isaac, .P. M.
Steele, Joh11 Corbett
Steen, Harold
Stein, Max
Stewart, Joseph Brown
Sues, Bernard
Sweet, Alonzo Frederick
Sweetzer, Edward Healy
Taft, Harris Welch
Tanner, Richard Robert
Taylor, James Wesley E.
Thomas, Charles Henry
Todrl, J. Walter
· Tullis, Oliver Grant, P. M.
Vogel, Frank William
Volkman, Martin Francis
Wagner, Frank Jesse
Webb, Henry Horace
Webb, Perry Horace
Wheeler, Ira Danford
Wheeler, Samuel A.
Wheeler, Samuel Earl
Wiebers, William Frederick
Wilson, Earl Alonzo
Young, Eugene Louis
Zander, William Edward
-116

WITHDRAWN:
r~ arlisle,

32

Edwin Otway

498

ROSTER

ROSTER

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Rentchler, George Baker
Barker, Alvin Perry
Reynolds, James Walter
Braden, John Charles
Rockwell, Lorenzo Ansen
Brown, Thomas Pollock
Sheckles, Eugene Cassidy
Hunter, John Stuart
Volkman, Martin Henry
Lockwood, William Salte
DIED:
Kimball, Myron Holly

MONROVIA LODGE, No. 308.
Monrovia., Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Richard Augustus V a n der Las, Ch.,
William Loghrin Hanna, Master,
Alexander Hardy Riddell, Sen. D:,
130 W. White Oak Ave.
Howard Duane Buttolph, S c11. W., Sam'! Emmerson Salisbury, Jun. D.,
Robert Clark Avery, Marshal,
Crel J . M cCurley, Jim ior Warden,
William Joiner Cornes, Steward,
George Howa rd Anderson, Treas.
George La F orce Baker, Secretary, Frank Octavius E ager, Steward,
Gotlob William Kramer, Tyler.
Postoffice.
MEMBERS:
Bowerman, Clarence Clark
Allison, John Stephen
Buttolph, Frank Ralston McAllister
Anderson, Geo. Howard
Buttolph, Howard Duane
Anderson, Charles
Armstrong, Edwaru Spence, P. M. pasner, Charles Wesley
Chickering, Elbridge Newhall
Avery, Robert Clark
Cooper, Victor Roscoe
Bacon, Williamson Ware
•
Cornes, Frank J., P. M.
Baker, Geo. La.Force
Cowan, Richard Ba.tee, P. M.
Barber, Sanforu Maxon
Crandall,
Horace E.
Bardill, John Warren
Crandell, John Abner
Barnes, Leonidas
Cronenwett, Albert Emanuel
Barnes, Samuel William
Dash,
Charles Jacob
·
Bartle, John Henry
Davies, Bertram Charles
Barth, Otto Frank
Day, Loring Lerte
Baurne, Frank Smith
Denslow, Adelbert Todd
Bean, Charles William
Dickie, Edward Hale
Beecher, Charles Edward
Doull, George Mark
Blair, James Elmer
Dunn, John
Black, Qeo. Wilson
EageT, Frank Octavius
Blake, Geo. Matthew

Evans, Herbert Johnston
Fancher, Marshall Jay
Farman; Willis Edward
Firgens, Otto Max
Fosdyck, Thomas Henry
Fowler, Hardiman
Fowler, Joseph, P. M.
Fraulob, Joseph Albert
Fulton; Frederick Gans
Glenny, Thonias
Graver, John Lewis
Griffith, Ira Jackson
Handley, Damon Carl
Hanna, William Loghrin
Hargrave, Edwin Lee
Harris, Hardin Chauncey
Harris, Jonathan Bentley
Harvey, James William, P. M.
Hawes, Frederick Norman
Hinters, Auolph Christian
Holloway, James Bledsoe
Hotchkiss, Leonard Edward
Howell, Franklin Davenport
Ingersoll, Charles Kelly
Ingram, Ebenezer, P. M.
Ingram, Samuel S.
Johnson, Albert Hurlbut
Johns on, Ansel E.
Jones, LeRter M.
Kettle, Alfred Wm.
Knapp, Edward Walter
Knepper, Edmund E., P. M.
Kramer, Gottlob William
Lapham, Percy L.
Leinberger, Arleigh Francesse
Long, Ernest Benjamin
Macfarlane, Walter
Marsh, Clark Herbert
Mccament, Andrew Lee
McOullongh, Howard Tremble
McCurley, Orel J.
Miller, Morton
Mollenkoff, Worthy
Monroe, Campbell Otto
Morse, Chas. Horace
0

499

Neely, Robert Hugh
N ew1nan, Miles Robert
Nichols, Walter Hammond
Northup, Eugene Daniel
Pinney, Albert
Pomeroy, John Larabee
Pottol, Robert
Prindle, Edward Manville
Hiider, Howard Elton
Rawson, Engene Pulaski
Reed, John Wallace
Reese, Arthur William, P. M.
Renaker, Charles Taylor
Remington, Lewis D.
Reynolds, Stewart Harris
Riddell, Alex. Hardy
Ryder, Andrew
Salisbury, Samuel Emerson
Sarwine, Christian Henry
Sawyer, Reuben Ande·rson
Scarborough, Robert R.
Scott, Arehibald
Scott, Howard Rylatt
Slemmons, Hal Maxwell
Slick, lfred Abraham
Spence, Edward Follis, P. M.
Spence, William Parker, P. M.
Strine, .Tohn Harvey, P. M.
Thomas, Herbert John
Tuggle, William Erwin
Udell, Herbert George
Vanderlas, Richard Augustus
Ward, Francis Neville
Wardall, Ralph Hugh
Wardall, Ray Cliffo-r d
Wardall, Thomas
Wheeler, Lawrence Newton, P. M.
Whitaker, William Wallace, P. M.
Whitam, .Tohn
White, Genius
White, Wm. Anson
Williams, Manly Russell
Wilson, Foster E.
Woolley, Pardon Sebastian

-127

500

ROSTER
WITHDRAWN:
Hall, William Creighton
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bowes, Charles Austin
DIED:
Collins, Richard Earle

DELANO LODGE, No. 309.
Delano, Kern Oounty.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFIOEB.S:

Roswell Marvin Wilbur, Master,
Ernest Hastings Ramsay, Sen. Deac.,
Delano, Cal. •
John Robinson Quinn, !!In. DeaconA
Homer Andrew Bower, Sen. Ward., Archibald Sheppard, Marshal,
Otto August. Clasen, Jun. Ward.,
Clay Benjamin Thomas, Steward;
Benjamin Thomas, ·Treasurer,
Arthur Brown Bulock, Steward,
John Jacob Schitz, Secretary,
Anthony Harrington Thomas, Tyler,
Delano, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Faure, Peter
Alderson, G. Edwin
Fowler, Harry Harwood
Allen, Marcus D.
Green, John Townsend
Ammons, Ralph Waldo
Armstrong, Evelyn B.
Hawley, Harvey
Bonnabel, Jean
Hays, Emmett Lowell
Bower, Homer Andrew, P. M.
Howard, Frank Byron
Buchanan, Frank August
Jackson, Franklin Pierce
Jordan, Alfred Bernard
Bulock, Arthur Brown
Kern, Ralph
Burton, Ebenezer Scott
. Kitchen, Charles Edwin
Cecil, Dan Leander
Kramer, Alex. Sames, P. M.
Clasen, Otto August
Cline, Christian William, P. M.
Lary, Clyde Clifton
Lot1kridge, Albert Newton
Cornwell, Daniel Dennis, P. M.
Cornwell, Hiram Luther
Macomber, John Kingsly
Crangle, John
Mccombs, Albert James
Curtis, Nahem Linas
Neville, Jesse Montgomery'
Dorsey, Richard Valentine
Perrier, Auguste
Downing, Edward Charles
Quinn, John Robertson
Duggins, James Madisun
Ramsay, Ernest Hastings
Eustache, Jean Etienne
Robertson, Orie Oliver
Faure, Joseph
Robertson, Thom,as Abner

ROSTER
Schlitz, John J~cob, P. M.
Schultz, Norman· Place
Sheppard, Archibald, P. M.
Sherwood, Edgar Elsworth
Smith, William Lannon
Speer, John Henry B.
Stockton, James Walter
Thomas, Anthony Harrington
Thomas, Benjamin, P. M.
Thomas, Clay Benjamin

501

Turner, Lyman
Van Valer, Clarence Alpha
Waits, Fred
Whitten, Alfred
Wilbur, Roswell Marvin
Wiseman, Addison Louis
Withrow, John Russell
Wright, Frank Emmett
Zimmerman, Henry David, P. M.
Zimmerman, Henry N.
-62

DIED:
Robison, Harry Byers

SISSON LODGE, No. 310.
Sisson, Siskiyou County.

Stated Meetings, first Wr.dnesday in eilch month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Fred'k Galbreath, Master, Romer Irwin Bassler, Sen. Deacon,
Sisson, Cal.
Arthur Edward Glidden, Jun. Deac.,
William H. :\fcllmoil, Sen. Ward., William Keys Doney, Marshal,
Walter Claude A11ingham, Jun. W., Michael Culligan, Steward,
] ohn Martin Schuler, Treasurer,
] ohn W. Su1laway, Steward,
Edward H. Koupp, Secretary,
Albert Parah Smiley, Tyler.
SisitOn, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Adams, John Crittenden
Edson, Archie Galen
Alexander, Samuel
Es-tell, Jessie M.
Allingham, Walter C.
Fidler, Alfred Augustine
Andrews, Hugh Blythe
Galbreath, Charles Frederick
Antone, Lee Leon
Gates, Roy
Ball, Frank
Glidden, Charles Edward, P. M.
Barnes, Willard Franc111
Gouguet, Louis Jean Ernest
Bartlett, Wallace Coggins
Gridley, Wm. Augustus
Bassler, Romer Irwin
Hopkins, William Richard
Bonney, Charles Lester
Harvey~ James Maurice
Burk, George Washington
Hoey, Henry Patrick
Burton, Roy Oscar
Holmes, John William
Cass, Frederick Layton
Hubble, Chas. W.
Craig, Henry Alonzo
Hunt, Eugene William
Culligan, Michael
Hunt, William Broderick
Durney, James Nathaniel
-··-· i;ii8eil, William

502

Johnson, John Charles
Kaupp, Edward Hepperlen, P. M.
Kirkpatrick, Wm. Augustus
Knight, Alton James
Kohn, Matt
Kuck, Ferdinand Henry
Leach, Martin Andrew
Liberoth, Niles West
Locey, Charles Arthur
McGuinness, Henry
Mc!lmoil, Wm. H.
Metcalf., Samuel W.
Mugler, Albert
Mugler, Nicholas
Murphy, Charles William
Murphy, Morton Jeremiah
Nei<ligh, David M.
Orr, Francis Price
Painter, Joseph Lincoln
Rinckel, David Wesley
Amann, Joseph
*Burley, Charles P .
Cupless, Joseph H.
Gage, Charles G.
Hancock, Charles E .
Hall, Elmer E.
Holmes, Alexander

ROSTER

ROSTER
Rinckel, John Wesley
Ross, Henry P.
Saul, Theodore Juliu&
Sawyer, Jo11eph Clark
Schuler, John Martin
Shebley, Frank Albert
Sheldon, Darwin Alonzo
Smiley, Albert Parah
Smith, Charles Caswell
Bolner, John B., P. M .
Stevens, James, P. M.
Sullaway, John Wesley
Towne, George E.
Tetzlaff, Arthur John
Thompson, Fenton Graham
Weed, Abner
Wheeler, Thomas Rattery
Wood, Oscar Hiram; P. M.
Wright, Charles
Wright, Thomas Benton

WITHDRAWN:
Kennedy, John
Kaiser, Anselm C.
tMorrow, John J.
Nichols, Frederick B.
Parsons, George E.
Sutherland, David L.
Smith, Elliott M.
Williams, Horace A.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF' DUES:
Shebley, William H.
Farnum, Edward Truesdell
Sawyer, Nathan
McKea, John
Williams, Edward Charles
Requa, Ralph W .
Young, Eugene Vincent
•Restored d·urlng the year.
tDegrees conferred during the year.

LOS BANOS LODGE, No. 312.
Los Banos, Merced County.
~tated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

-72

Percy Harrison, Master,
William Jasper Stockton, Jr., Sen. D.,
Volta, Cal.
John Prosper Idiart, Jun. Deacon,
Bert Alvin Wilson, Sen. Warden, James Long McClelland, Marshal,
F1 ank Holman Thomas, Jun. Wa.r d., ·Louis Ferd Bambauer, Steward,
Archibald C. Smith, Treasurer,
John Henry Schmidt, Steward,
Edward David Heron, Secretary,
J ames Patrick Hagerty, Tyler."
Los Banos, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Akard, Joseph Green
Mason, Lewis Tracy
Arbios, Henry Bernard
McClelland, James Long
Arbios, Jean Peter
Mead, George Walter, P. M.
Bachle, Fred
Mitchell., James
Bambauer, Louis F .
Muth, John Frederick, P. M.
Berryman, John Allen
Peterson, Fred Johannes J.
Pfeiffer, Henry James
Cheatham, William Thomas
Clare, Frank
Place, Josepn Elmer, P. M.
Roberts, William Mason
Davis, Walter Mortimer
Ryley, Samuel Paul
Drummond, John Quincy
Grunig, Emil
Salau, Adolphus Henry, P. M.
Hagerty, James Patrick
Schmidt, John Henry
Harris, Alfred
Schumacher, William Edward
Harrison, Percy
Smith, Archibald C.
Hawks, Clarence W.
Stockton, William Jasper, P. M.
Heron, Edward David
Stockton, Wm. Jasper, Jr.
Irliart. John Prosper
Thomas, F. H.
Jameson, Chas. Mortimer
Wade, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Jameson, William Josiah
Wiley, William Merritt, P. M.
Kruger, Edward Martin
Wilson, Bert Alvin
Lacy, .Joseph
Wright, Walter Fox
Leonard, Dennis Allen
Wright, William Walter
-44
Lower, Harry Edward
WITHDRAWN:
· Leaf, Robert Emit
DIED:
Mitchell, William John

004

ROSTER

ROSTER

TEHACHAPI LODGE, No. 313.
Tehachapi, Kern County.
Stated Meetings, last Thursday in each m?nth.
OFFICERS:
Leonard Truman Jenkins, Master, Newell Jonathan Brown, Jr., S. D.,
Harry John Beauford, Jun. Deacon,
Tehachapi, Cal.
William Henry Whisler, Marshal,
James Galinger, Senior Warden,
Alfred Solomon Waterman, Treas., Louis Bernard Kessing, Steward,
Peter James McFarlane, Secretary, Harry A. Marx, Steward,
Philip Marx, Tyler.
Tehachapi, Cal.
George Walter Lovejoy, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Asher, Arthur
Fngberg, Charles John
Aye, Julian Geo.
Fleming, George Edward
Freeman, John Ban
Andrus, Glenn Mason
Baird, James
Freeman, Robert Buchanan
Beauford, Harry John
Gali~ger, Jonas
Boden, Louis Frederick
Gillespie, Earl Richmond
Boxall, Fred 'k Geo.
Glenn; James
Brewster, Charles Lindsey
Goldberg, Aaron
Brown, Newell Jonathan
Grether, Earnest Fred 'k, Jr.
Grubb, James Coulter
Burges, George
Cavano, William Michael
Hall, Edwin Hines
Hamilton, Hiram Culbreth
Centerno, Jules Bruneau
Chalrnan, Gustaf ·
Harloe, George Edwin
Champion, Thomas Evelette
Harris; Bernard
Harris, James Erwin
Charlton, Oliver Adair
Chormicle, Franklin Crawford, P.M. Hastings, George
Heath, Charles .
Clark, Samuel Remington
Hickey, John
Coffey, George Alva
Coleman, Earl Victor
Hicks, Jesse Elmer, P. M.
Hill, Rolland George
Cooper, Frank Geo.
Hendrickson, John Jamee
Crum, Ed. Frederick
Holden, Wilfred
Cuddeback, William Nicholas
Hoxie, Frederick Stickney
Cunningham, Lincoln
Jacobs, Herman Manuel
Dartt, James David
Jenkins, Lenard Truman
Denison, Burton Martin
Kelly, John William
·
Denison, Lon M.
Kessing, Louis Bernard
Denman, George Alfred M.
Krystall, Samuel
Dickerson, Evard
Lee, Curtis O.
Emery, William Oscar

505

Shackelford, Marcus Sterling
Lovejoy, Geo. Wash.
Shackelford, Rouzee Foster
Lovejoy, Walter
Sheridan, John Henry, P. M.
Macdonald, Reginald Edwin
Shobert, Fred
Maclin, Grover Cleveland
Smith, Charles Henry
Mallachowitz, Clyde Earl
Sparks, Carl Prince
Marx, Arthur
Speakman, William Walter
Marx, Harry A.
Spencer, Patrick William Henry
Marx, Philip, P. M.
Stoughton, Chas. Henry
Mathias, Paul G. H.
Steadman, LeRoy Leahy
McFarlane, Peter James, P. M.
Strouse, Edward Eugene
McKay, Alexander Duncan
Sutton, William Henry
McMurtrie, Eugene Curtis
Switzer, Henry Wm.
Meagher, James Buchanan
Taylor, Charlea Sumner
Monroe, Duncan Frank
Thayer, Joseph Herriot
Monroe, .Tames A.
Thorne, Walter Francis
Moore, Julius Durkee
Turner, George Wyman
Newell, Daniel Boone
Nicholson, Edward James H., P. M. Tyler, Matthew Hale
Tyler, Seth Jackson
O'Hagen, John Walter
Van Voorhees, Geo. Theron, P. M.
Osburn, Henry Emmet
Van yYay, Walter
Pippitt, George Henry, P. M.
Waage, John
.
Pullman, Adolph Arthur
Waterman, Alfred Soloman
Purcell, William Franklin
Waterman, Walter Benjamin
Rees, Isaac David
Weldon, Arthur
Richter, William Mortiz
Weston, Paul Eugene
Riley, Roger Andy
West, Frank Squires
Ripley, John
Whistler, William Henry, P. M.
Reed, Everet Vest
White, Geo. Washington
Reuss, Chas. Nicolas
Willard, Samuel Fred
Robinson, John Sherman
Wilson, Sidney Benjamin
Sexton, Chester Stephen
Wilson, William Cabaniss
Seymour, Eclward Humphrey
Young, A us_tin
Shackelford, Dick, P. M.
Young, George Washington
-126
Shackelford,, Jesse Bell
WITHDRAWN:
McCrea, George
Garlock, George Sylvester
Robinson, John Hutchins
Hickey, John Haney
Scovern, ·Louie Granville
Soerry, Jacob Price

DIED:
Tournot, Peter

!

•.·1·

506

ROSTER

ROSTER

TEMESCAL LODGE, No. 314.
Corona, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each

month.

OFFICERS:

William D. Somerville, Master,
George Myron Blair, Cha;lain,
Corona, Cal.
Wilbur Grafton Darst, Seti. Deacon;
Marshall Emery Clayson, Sen. Ward., Norman Orlando Reeves, Ju11. Deac.;
Harry Lynn Lyman, Junior Warden, Charles Mittean Scoville, Marshal,
George Brown, Treasu1·er,
Frank Herkelrath, Steward,
Arthur Hamilton Larrabee, Secretary,Fred Elwyn Snidecor, Ste-ward,
Box 8, Corona, Cal.
August Herman Schoenman, Tyler. ·
MEMBERS :
Freeman, George Robert
Alden, Fred Shelton
Andrews, Linus Lackner
Generoux, Edward Joseph
Austin, George Morgan
Gleason, Clifford Valorous
Baer, George Nickey
Gooch, John Barton
Baird, Fred Milton
Grinnell, James William
Barth, William Christian, P. M.
Hammer, John Thomas
Bates, Albert William
Harding, Cyrus Merritt
Billings, Rufus Sumner
Harter, Elam
Bird, Stephen
Holmes, Henry Harrison
Bonfoey, Edward
Huxsaw, Orville A.
Brown, Alex. B.
Kelley, Albert Polk
Key, John Patterson
Brown, George, P. M.
Kidder, Ethan Pier
Blair, Geo. Myron
Bloom, Samuel Lincoln
Larrabee, Arthur Hamilton, P. M.
Lockett, Sterling Wiley
Bush, George Lynne
Byler, Silas Russell
Lord, Daniel
Cathey,, Harry Willis
Lyman, Harry Lynn
Lyman, Wellman David
Chaney, Joseph Wesley, P. M.
Chapman, Wm. H.
Lypps, Charles Christopher
Claypool, Myron Newton
Main, Charles William
Mayer, Michael Joseph
Clayson, Marshal Emery
McGillivary, George Brown
Cochran, Willard Wesley
McNiel, David Carey
Cross, Alvin Harvey
McVicar, William Gray
Darst, Wilbur Grafton
Davis, Allen Jones
Morgan, Everett Bryant
Mueller, Fred Jacob
Davis, James Lemuel, P. M.
Patton, Luther
Dean, Gustavus Franklin, P. M.
Drinlf,water, Thomas Paine
. .Perkins, Fran.k Arthur, P. M.
Prizer, Henry Anson
Ferguson, George L.

Randall, Cecil Bryon, P. M.
Reeves, Norman Orlando
Riddell, William
Ruddeck; Otto Julius
Schoenman, August Herman
Scoville, Charles Median, P. M.
Scoville, Frank, P. M.
Slaten, Alfred Theodore
Snidecor, Fred Elwyn
Snidecor, George Elihu
Somerville, William D.
Spining, Joseph Montfort
Sullivan, Thomas David
Tilson, Nathaniel Walter
Scoville, Harry Frank

507

Triolo, John Patrick.
Terpening, Mason, P. M.
Tuthill, Arthur Brewster
Valentine, William Edmond
Vankirk, George Wesley
Veach, Andrew
"'alton; Arthur Lavington
Walker, John
Watson, James
Wilkin, Fred Lacy
Willard, Stephen Sylveater
Willets, Robert Leander
Wood, Albert Clark, P. M.
-85

WITHDRAWN:
Tovey, George Adelbert
Wollitz, Robert Max

NORWALK LODGE, Ne.. 315.
Norwalk, Los Angeles County.
Stated meetings, Tuesday of pr next precedmg Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Simon Neubauer, Master,
Arlie Frank Hutchinson, Sen. Deac.,
La Mirada, Cal. ·
Louis Buehn, Ju.nior Deacon,
Almond D. DeWitt, Sen. Warden, Nicholas Henry Hushes, Marshal,
Dan Welty Horst, Jun. Warden,
Thomas James Price, Steward,
James Hay, Treasurer,
Harrison K. Custer, Steward,
Alphons Edward Dressell, Secretary, Thomas Milton Dillman, Tyler.
La Mirada, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Duncan, Garnett
Baker, John Samuel
Eliot, James 8mith, P. M.
Bradbeer, Andrew B.
Emery, Charles
Buehn, George Christ P. M.
Glazier, Clarence M.
Buehn, Louis Fred
Gordon, John
Burrows, Herbert Gates
Groover, John Franklin
Custer, Harrison K.
Hay, James, p; M.
DeWitt, Almond Dor
Higbee, Chas. E.
Dillman, Thomas Milton
Holsapple, Albert Ferdinand
Dressen, Alph1m11 Edward, P. M .
Horst, Dan Welty
Duncan, Charles Wilson, P. M.

ROSTER

· ROSTER

508
Hughes, Harley
Hughes, Nicholas Henry
Hutchinson, Arlie Frank
Johnston, Darius David
Jones, John S .
Lumbard, Albert Dor
McCarric, Franklin
Mason, Charles Cole
Neubauer, Simon
Orr, Charles Augustus
Orr, James Robert
Orr, John Joseph, P. M.
Pallange, Percy Peter
Price, Thomas Janies
Ray, Thomas Allen
Church, Clyde Melville

Reeve, John Bell
Shaw, Robert James
Sollinger, John Henry
Sproul, Frank Preston, P. M.
Sproul, William CharleP
·
Strong, Stephen
. ·
Swigart, Jacob
Swigart, Jacob DeWitt
Thornton, Calvin A.
Thomton, Virgil Orville
Waterman~ Clarence 0.
:Waymire, Frank D.
Waymire, Stephen Augustus
West, Edward Garrison
White, ·William Erastus C.

-50

WITHDRAWN:
Fraser, Alexander Isaac
Neise, Charles Arthur

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Martin, Michael Arthur
Petty, William Robert
DIED:
Thornton, Corlis .Russell

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.
Sanger, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank King Sayer, Master,
William Albert Walton, Sen. Deac.,
Sanger, Cal.
Flavius Josephus Carter, Jun. Deac.,
George Thomas Dockery, Sen. W., James· Edward Burnett; Marshal,
Frederick Geo. Bennett, Jun. Ward., Alfred Ludley Tipton, Steward,
James Peter Nelson, Treasurer,
William Radley, Steward,
Orie Hay~ard, Secretary,
William Rigger Patterson, Tyler.
Sanger, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Bacon, Oscar Franklin
Allen, Carl C.
Bacon, William MUton
Allen, Don Alonzo.
Baird, Alfred Maurice
Anderson, John Adolf
Andrus, William Frank
Baird, Benjamin Morgan
Baird,..Edwin Ellsworth, P. M.
Bacon, M:ilo Woodworth

Ballard, Berton Joseph
Bennett, Frederick George
Bosserman, Robert Lee
Brown, Percy Whitcomb
Burnett, James . Edward, P. M.
Burnett, Robert B.
Burns, Miles Fra11cis
Bradshaw, John
Brehler, Oscar A.
Carlton, William David
Carter, Flavius Josephus
Clay, William Robert
Coblentz, George Samuel
Curran, Choate Howe
Daveney, Chas. Edward Vernon
Decker, Thurlow W.
. Dennis, Nelson, P. M.
Depew, William Brenning
Dewey, Edward Porter
Dirvin, Henry
Dockery, George Thomas
Douglass, Theo. Crockett
Dudley, Edward C.
Ellwood, Leonard Francis
Elmore, Benjamin Thomas
Evinger, Daniel R.
Faller, Peter, P. M.
Field, AnderR Thorwaldsen
Fleming, Luther Parker
Garrison, Frederick Merril
Hamilton, Andrew
Harlem, Louis
Hayward, Orie, P. M.
Heidorn, Wm. John
Hobler, Sigmund Frankenau
Hooper, James Edward

509

Hudson, Ora James
Ingram, Charles Ray
Jones, Iven Henry
Jones, William Frederick
Kutner, Alfred
Lange, Carl Adam ,
Lisle, John Newton, P . M.
Madden, Thomas Frederick
Manley, George Penfield, P . M.
Maxson, Charles Newton
McLaughlin, Harry Blaine
McLaughlin, Lee, P . M.
McGee, James Henry
Meves, Chas. Henry
Mitchell, Harry Chandler
Nelson, James P eter
Norman, Lewis Vernon
Paden, Robert J.
Parker, Albert Monroe
Patterson, John Alexander
Patterson, Wm. Rigger
Pressley, John Brockinton, P. M.
Radley, William
Rosenberger, John Ashley
Sayre, Frank King, P. M.
Swank, William Ellwood
Tackaberry, Benjamin Franklin
Tipton, Alfr~ Ludley
Turner, Labon John
Walton, Charles Perry
Walton, William Albert
Weldon, Abraham James
West, Philander Nathan
' Weston, Charles
Wheeler, Barton James
Wilson, Henry Scott
-82

WITHDRAWN:
Creagor, William Douglass
Neeley, Herbert William
Woodside, Robert Clifton

510

ROSTER

ROSTER

FALLBROOK LODGE, No. 317.

EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318.

Fallbrook, San Diego County.

Biggs, Butte Oou_nty.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding FuU Moon.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Frank P. Day, Master,
.Tacob A. Martin, Senior D~acon,
Fallbrook, Cal.
Bert Woodbury, Junior Deaton,
Edward C. Reeder, Sen. Warden, J. M. Cook, Steward,
Lee C. Ellis, Junior Warden,
M. E. Waite, Steward,
Frank G. Westfall, Treasurer,
Joseph G. Martin, T•yler.
Albert W. E. Fox, Secretary,
Fallbrook, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Bell, Alonzo Mandeville
Belt, Henry Morrow
Camp, Chas.
Clark, Almond Jamee, P. M.
Colstock, H. L.
Cook, James Madison
Day, Frank Richard, P. M.
Ellis, Lee Colby
Fickas, Jesse Tingle
Fox, Albert Wm. Edward
Goodenow, Francis G.
Graffin, Samuel H.
Gregg, Fred B.
Gregg, Justice C.
Johnson, Percy Alex.1 P. M.

Martin, Jacob Arthur
Martin, Joseph George
Moulton, Montgomery McD., P. M.
Myers, Edward
Reader, Edward Charles
Regan, Wm. H.
Salmons, Frank E.
Smelser, Horatio
Smelser, William M.
Waite, Marion Edward
Walton, ErncRt Allen
Westfall, Oeotge Frankliu
White, Edgar Cornelius
Woodbury, Bert

WITHDRAWN ·
Butler, George
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chapman, Etna Gaston
Magee, Victor Miguel
Chestnut, Jim
McCarty, Thomas
Crane, William E.
Russell, Allen J.
Giddens, Levi Cornelius
Treat, Thomas Robert

511

OFFICERS:

(No ·certificate. See Appendix.)
MEMBERS:
La Point, Leroy Anson
Albers, John
La Point, Moses, P. M.
Albers, Paul
Lawrence, Pnilip Edward
Archambault, Frank Edward
Leeper, John Franklin
Bayles, Robert A.
Me.lfee, Matthew
Bell, John Alex.
Morse, Bdrnond
Berveillier, Jean Nicholas O.
Neff, Millard Fillmore
Boyd, James Sankie
Brink, Henry Seine
Nelson, Chas. Henry
Burchett, William
Nelson, Joel Moore
Nelson, William Oscar, P. M.
Caldwell, Buchanan
Camp, Albert Edward
o~senbriggen, Matthias
Chatfielrl; Chnrles Edward
Riddle, Wm. Robert
Cohn, Harry, P. M.
'Rutland, James Bell
Cooper, Theo. Reynolds
Shippee, Wanton Allen
Cl'Rig, Thomas Franklin
Smith, Gilman Kendall
Smith, Walter Marcus
Demes, Barney Harry
Doty-Lymnn, Warren
Stoudt, Aaron F.
Stoudt, Grover Cleveland
Doty, William Mark
Spencer, Franklin Edward
Fox, Henry
l'
Hammon, Wendell Philucius, P. M. Walker, William Edwin, P. M.
Hansen, Charles
WaRhburn, Oliver Arnold
Hawkins, Orwin Cullen, P. M.
Washburn, Calvin Uriah
Haselbusch, Henry William, P. M. Wats·o n, Franklin Haskell, P . M.
White, Walter Herbert
Hicks, John Leander
White, Emmons
Huffaker, Ebenezer
White, Edwin Earl
.Ta<.'kson, Charles Herbert
Whitney, Ival
Jones, James Riehard
Woodruff, Andrew Moore
Kemper, Francis Charles
Kennedy, Harry Garfield
-57
DIED:
'Doty, Lyman
William

5l2

ROBTEB

ROSTER
Bradbeer, Geo. Elliott
Bradley, Frank Ezekiel
Bradley, Frank L.
Bresee, Melvin Arthur
Bresee, Phineae Wright
Brooks, Frank Handy, P. M.
Brooks, Isaac Eugene
Brown, Harry Van Brick
Brown, Carey Wm.
Brown, Jesse Franklin
Brown, Robert Lowrey
Browning, Daniel Rawlins, P. M.
Bulpin, Thomas W.
Burger, Frank Elliott
Burrier, Clifford Ristine
Bunker, Walter James
Busch, Fred 'k Wilhelm
Busch, Samuel
Bush, Harris Haven
Butt, Jam'ls Franklin
Butterworth. Erlward Summers
Cady, Freeman Risley
Campbell, George W.
Cammert, Edward Rudolph
Carmichael, Thomas Adams
Carr, Noble Spencer
Carroll, ,Joseph Francis
Carr, Jesse Aubrey
Carter, Geo. Ira
Carter, Henry Edwin
Carter, John Asher
Cary, Geo. Wash.
Casey, Charles Booth
Chandler, Burdette
Chapman, Ward
Charlton, Herbert E verett
Charlton, Chas. Augustus, r. M.
Charlton, Roy Currier
Chrisman, Arthur A.
Chrisman, Charles Franklin
Chrisman, Je11se Floyd
Christy, Aclison Barton
Clampett, Don L.
Clampett, Edward Anth~ny

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
1956 East First Street.
OFFICERS:
Brinton Beake Gregory, Master,
Jacob Blick Ginther, Chaplain,
1352 30th Place, Los Angeles, Cal. · Charles . Fred'k Clark, Sen. Deac.,
Hudson Young Gibson, Sen. Ward., John Swanfeldt, Junior Deacon,
Henry Wilson Reynolds, Jun. Ward., Joseph Francis Carroll, Marshal,
Peter Johnson, Treasurer,
Clifford Edwin Schroer, Steward,
John William Dick, Secretary,
Frank Elliott Burger, Steward,
1196 W . 36th St., Los Angeles, Cal. George Reed Ellis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barton, Charles Oliver
·Absalom, David Reese
Barton, Hugh
Adams, Harland George
Batcheller, Charles Lucian, P. M.
Adams, Horace Bishop, P. M.
Beall, Albert Samuel
Adams, Oliver Perry
Becher, Max Albert
Ahlgren, Earnest Ludwig
Beede, John Wallace
Alexander, Daniel Potter
Behrendt, Leon
Alkire, Charles Osborn
Behrendt, Sam
Allin, Ernest
Behymer, Luden Ellsworth
AlliAon, Samuel Br.owles
Bell, Robson Orde
Ammon, Ralph Bell
Bemis, Ernest Hudson
Anderson, Charles .Edward
Benjamin, Robert
Anderson, John
Bennett, George
Anderson, Marshall S.
Berres, Benjamin
Angstad, Chas. Edmund
Berres, Bert
Arey, Ralph Jesse
B')st, Abel Wardlaw
Atwell, John Haye
Bethune, James Neils
Augustus, Edward Hikes, P. M.
Binford, Henry Mettaur
Bacon, George
Blanchard, Everett Loring
Bailie, Hubert Charles
Bliesner, William John
Bancroft, George Hess
Bollschweiler, Charles Frederick
Bannister, George Lucas
Bolton, Edgar Monroo
Barber, Davicl Cassett
Borun,
Harry H.
Bar<lslee, Arthur
Borun, Hyman Jacob
Barker, Edward Lawton'
Borun, Robert
Barnhart, Wm.
Bostwick, Edward Everett
Barnes, Charles Adams
Botsford, Frank Leroy
Barnes, Thomas Finley
Boyer, Richard P eter
Barth, Theodore Adam

33

. '

Clark, Charles Frederick
Clawson, Cornelius Delta
Clemons, Frank S.
Cochrane, Malcomb
Cohn, Abraham B.
Cohn. James B.
· Cohn, Maurice
Coker, Frank Mathews
Collins, Arthur Jack
Colwell, Charles Henry
Conart, George Washlngtor
Condley, Darrell
Cone, William Smith
Conley, Thomas Augustus
Cook, Geo. Percy
Cooke, Charles Prentico
Copley, Chester Carl
Cowan, John
Cox, William Leonard
Crane, Henry Root
Crail, James
Crose, Fred 'k Milton
Daniels, Albert Leroy
Davis, Leland Homer
Davis, Morgan Lewis
Davisson, Charles Elmore
Derby, Charles F<Jrdinand
Derby, George Morris
Dessery, Alfred Bonney
Dessery, Hypolite Louis
Dessery, Victor
Dibble, Horace B.
Dick, Clydo Orris
Dick, John William
Dickson, James Lemuel
Diffenbaugh, Charles
Diggs, Lowell Clyde
Dillingham, Frank Stinson
Dingle, Ervin
Doak, Hugh Taylor
Doane, Douglas Freret
Dodd, Samuel Harvey
Dodge, William
Donson, John Henry

613

514

,ROSTER

RO~'l'EH

Dorr, George William
Douglas, Hallie Ross
Douglass, Irving Cruft
Dreyfus, Louis Ernest
Du Casse, Eugene Leon
Dunn, John Edward
Dunsmour, John Marcus, P. M.
Dunsmour, Robert Morris
Dyas, Bernal Hubert
Eccleston, Albert Sydney
Eddy, Nelson Butler
·Edwards, Herbert Llewellyn
Egan, Andrew Campbell
Egan, George
Egar, Charles Lucius
Eifl'er, Louis Edward
Ellis, George Reed
Elliott, Milo D.
Etzel, Eilward Henry
Evans, Charles W.
Fallis, Garland Prentice
~'arley, Frank
Farren, Chas. Wm.
Fanlkner, Charles
Fechyew, Benjamin Reader
Fehrenson, Louis Henry
Fellows, Frederick Wm.
Fereday, .Ernest M.
Ferris, Horace Bayles
Filz, Frank Jacob
Finlay, John
Fitzgerald, Archibold Thomas
Fitzgerald, Wallace Andrew
Flanders, Geo. A.
Flawer, Sinclair
Fleming, .John Leslie
Follmer, Raymond Irving
Force, Floyd Centenial
Ford, George Jackson Parker
Forgey, Ralph Harold
Forsyth, Robert Allan
Forrester, Arthur Walter
Fowles, Wm. Cleveland ··
Francis, Wm. Joseph
French, Charles Edward

Frost, Harry Willis
Galbreath, Ross Morgan
Garrett, Louis Russer
Garritt, Edward Hewett
Garvin, Charles Louis
Gernert, Peter Christian
Gibbs, William Francis
Gibson, Frank
Gibson, Hudson Young
Gibson, William S.
Gill, Robson Osborn
Gilmer, Charles M.
Gilmer, Robert De Witt
Gilmore, Arthur Freeman
Ginther, Jacob Blick
Girton, Thomas Collins
Givernaud, Charles Louis
Glass, John Alex.
Goshorn, Archie Treburtis
Graham, William H.
Gray, Herbert
Gray, John Walter
Greene, George Sterling
Gregory, Brinton Blake
Gregory, Edmund Robert
Grohs, Henry Joseph
Grohs, John Philipp
Groshell, Wm. Reynolds
Grubb; Stephen Leander
(l-uest, Henry F·rancis
Hagailorn, .William Morley
Haines, Frank Knickerbocker
Hall, Orin Austin
Hammond, Rollin C.
Hampton, Thomas Welch
Harrington, Fred Augustus
Harrington, Geo. Wash.
Harrison, John
Harrison, Wm. Benjamin
Hart, V\'inslow Caruthers
Hauser, Franklin Michael
Hauser, Julius
Hauser, Lewis August, P. M.
Hauser, Wesley Charles
Hay, Emil Otto

Hays, Charles Ernest
Heartt, Burton Elmer
Heasley, Hugh Adair
Hendrick, James Wesley, P. M.
Henkle, Byron
Henneberry, Edwin Joseph
Hess, Oliver Richard
Hesselberger, Milton
Hillebrand, Frank Joseph
Hoffman, Frederick Otto
Holland, Francis Engene
Hollenbeck, Edward Henry
Holmer, Charles Redmond
H-01t, James Erle
Hood, Frederick Donald
Hornbeck, Eugene
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Hopkins, Olla Lamont
Hopper, Wm. Garrett
Houck, Perry Homer
Huggins, Flernoy Walker
Humm, Harry Lewis
Hutchin·s, Alvin George
Irvin, Eilwaril Samuel
Ingersoll, Ralph William
Jameson, Alvah Lee
Jenney, Ferrlolin
Johnson, Albert
.Tohnson, Alle.n Henry
Johnson, Arthur De Cart
Johnson, Chas. Gar
Johnson, Harry G., P. M.
Johnson, Fred 'k Augustus
Johnson, Oscar
Johnson, Peter
.Tohnston, Charles Horace
Jones, Arthur
Jones, Charles S.
Jones, Chas. Thomas B.
.Tones, Robert Curtis
Jordon, Robert Collins
Kaler, Alfred Miller
Keefe, Thomas Francis
Kelley, William Landon
Kemper, Chas. Eilwin

Kendrick, Albert
Kennedy, Leneaus Ray
Kennedy, Louis Henry
Kerr, William McLachlan
Kingsbury, William Stephens
Kirshner, Emile
Klein, Henry
Knighten, Warren Ashbury
Knighten, James Osmond
Knighten, William Ammon
Knighten, William White
Kohr, Arthur Garfield
Kuhrts, Edward Wm.
La Berge, Frank Edward
La Berge, Frank William
La Berge, Robert Charles
Lambourn, Frederick
Lancaster, Thomas
Landon, Burt Newton
Lane, George
Larronde, John Martin
Larson, Andy John
La Touche, Arthu.r Clyde
Laughton, Fred
Lawton, Joseph
Layng, John Rose
Leckner, Charles Henry
Lee, Charles Franklin
Leix, Frederick, P. M.
Leland, Harry Jasen
Lenz, Edmund Henry Carl
Levering, Martin Murry
Levy, Wm. Chas.
Lewis, George Arthur
Lewis, John James
Lewis, Thomas Henry
Light, Harry Breson
Lillie, Harry Curtis
Locke, James Neil
Lofthouse, Charles Pendleton
Logan, Charles Lincoln
Logan, Wm. George
Long, Frank Benajah
Loomis, Lester Grant
Loveday, George

515

516
Lovett, Gus Ansel
Luckenback, Chas. Augustus
Lusby, Albert Clifford
Lyster, Walter A.
Mabee, James Aaron
MacGillivray, George Barnett
Mackay, Roderick
MacKenzie, Andrew Nichols
Madden, Charles William
Madison, Motln Coats
Madoery, Carl Wilhelm Arnold
Magee, Robert
Mahone, Charles B.
Manning, Clarence W.
Marshall, Andrew B.
Marshall, Frank Thomas
Martin, Alex.
Martin, Karl
Masters, Frank Adelbert
Masters, John Henry
Masters, Oscar P.
Maynard, Rea Edward
McCartney, H erbert Swift G.
McCarty, Walter George
McCarty, William Herbert
McColl, John
McCollouh, Frank Overall
McCully, Earl ,Tustin
McCullough, Ray
McCullough, John Anderson
McDonald, David
Mc!lrath, George Wesley
Mcintire, John Roy
McKay, John Patton
McKenney, Chas. Simeon
Mcnachlan, Archibold Alex.
M<JLachlan, Willis Linsey
McLarity, Leonard Lawrence
McLennan, Alexander Frazer
McLeod, Alton De Witt
McMeans, He'll.ry Joseph
McNeil, James Elliott
Medway, Marcus
Mendelschon, Satnuel E llis
Meserve, E dwin Alvin

ROSTER
Miller, Clarence Webster
Miller, Herbert Lee
Miller, Jacob A.
Miller, George Lee
Miller, George Mikel
Millette, Charles Joseph
Mitchell, Jo&eph M. B.
Moore, Albert William
Moore, Jerry Carter
Morin, Nole!! James
Morgan, Octavious
Morrison, Norman Holt
Morro, August Edward
Morton, Silas - Frank
Murphey, Clare Warren
Nelson, John
Nesbit, Hayes William
Nesterdahl, Gustav Julius
Nethery, William John
Neuner, Sidney Martin, P. M.
Newkirk, Adamson Bertley
Newman, Toby
Noble, William Clarence Hayes
Nolton, Chester Dearborn.
Norris, James Franklin
N orton, David Reidman
Norton, Isiack F.
Norton, Louis
Nye, Charles Isaac
Obst, Oscar Harmon
Ohlsen, Oscar Ed.
Olive, Harry Lambert
Olney, Elford Lake
Olson; George
Orendorff, Jesse Walworth T.
Owen, Ira Lloyd
P almer , Truman Henry
Park, Frank Leon
Parker, Chrisman Harrison
Parker, George Hampshire
Patterson, George Frank
Paul, Charles C.
Peck, Earl Wellrose
P erham, Charles Edward
Per~go, Charles Herbert

ROSTER
Perrin, Lewis Edward
Rogers, William (~)
Petrie, James Buchan
Romer, Clarence Ernast
Pfuhl, Hugo Christopher
Rosenfelt, Benjamin l1'r1mklin
Philipo, John Isreal
Roth, Lewis Frederick
Philp, Harvey B.
Rowland, Charles Wm.
Phipps, Lester Ernest
Ruckman, Charles Leroy
Pierce, Harrv Lewis
Ruddy, Willia.in
P la.nk, Charles David
Runkle, Fredarick William
Plath, Emil Ludwig
Ruvane, William l!enry
Pontious, Marion Francis
Sarller, Rupert John
Post, John Cambel
Sanborn, Charles Henry
Potts, Amos Harry
Sanborn, Winfred Joseph, P. M.
Powell, Don St. Clair
Sandford, Frederick
Powell, John Benjamin
Sanduskey, Farran
Powell, Thomas Watkins
Schlosser, William Perry
Powers, Benjamin Nelson, P. M.
Schmidt, Oscar Emile
Powers, Cliford Hudson
Schwaebe, Lewis H.
Powers, Levi Osgood
Schreiber, William George
Preston, Frederick Brewster
Schroeder, Leo Adelmo
Price, Watt Wy nn
·
Schroer, Clifford Edward
Priddy, Courtland
Sentous, Frank Peter
Priwer, Aaron
Sessions, Nathan Paine
Quackenbush, Richard Orris
Sexton, Charles Loy-1
Quint, Sumner Joseph
Shaffer, Robert Kennedy
Ravenscroft, Alvia E.
Shakeley, Martin Fred 'k
Raymond, Harry .Tames
Shanks, Colin
Reavis, William Everett
Sharpe, Frederick Henry
Reed, Parker Clarke
Shearer, William Dixon
Rees, Samuel
Sherwin, Edward Underwood
Rees, Walter Bert
Shields, Samuel Albert
Reynolds, Hellry Wilson
Shiffler, Levi
Rhoads, Ernest
Shorten, Albert
Rice, John Garland
Shrader, William Wallace, Jr.
Richmond, Hedley Vicars
Shulthies, Henry
Risdon, Alfred J.
Shuman, John William
Rising, Franklin Edward
Sickel, Fe;dinanrl Henry
Robbins, Herbert Warren
Sisler, Samuel
Roberts, Edgar Lee
Bittle, Albert Cuper
Robinson, Henry F.
Slatter, Joseph McGtle
Robinson, Oliver Raymond Wade
Smith, Charles Fuller
Roddam, John
Smith, Frederick Augustus
Rodgers, .James Frederick
Smith, James Albert
Rogers, Frank Burroughs
Smith, J ohn Christopher
Rogers, Read Wyman
Smith, Joseph Augu1tU1, p, l\il,
Rogers, William
Smith, Kirk Emmett

517

518

Smith, Wm. Albert
Smith, William S.
Smith, Zena Bruce
Snyder, William
Solem, Andrew
Spiers, Ira Joseph
Spreng, Charles Gottfried
Spreng, Frederick Charles
Stamm, Julius George
Starbuck, Geo. Henry
Stearns, James Bert
Stearns, William Henry
Steddom, Francis White
Stevenson, Andrew William
Straus, Adolph
Strause, Edward Anderson
Stebzriede, John A. Willard
Stigman, John Josiah
Strong, Lee Abram
Sturgeon, Phineas Boyd
Sunde, Peter Harold
Supler, Chas. Harrison
Supler, Robert Wallace
Swanfelt, John
Sweeney, Clarence Jonathan
Sweet, Ernest James
Talbot, Edward Alonzo, P. M.
Tanner, Robert Wilfred
Taylor, Edward Cary
Taylor, Floyd Hale
Taylor, Raymond G.
•raylor, Samuel
Teale, Frederick Joseph
Teetzel, Fred William
Temby, Harry Arthur
Thomas, Frederick Smethurst
Thomas, Winfield Corwin
Thompson, Edward H.
Thompson, Paul
'fhompson, Richard
Thormiley, Edward Martin
~'hornton, William Crane
Trainor, Charles August
Treleaven, Arthur
Trickle, Ralph Emmerson

HOSTER

ROSTER
Trimble, John Swinburn
True, Herbert Fred
Turner, Edward
Turner, Geo. Howard
Uber, William Robert
Vandegrift, Charles Rhode
Varey, Harry.Louis
~
Variel, William James
Vesper, Charles Richard
Vestal, John Everett
Vetter, Louis Fisher
Wade, Amasa Gilmore
Wakelee, Carlton Kellogg
Walker, James
Walton, William Ransom
Vv am bold, Edward Howurd
Ward, Thomas .James
Ward, William Henry
Warden, Ch11rles Prentis
Wardling, George Benjamin
Warren, Hugh Mead
Watson, George Clark
Watson, Wm.
Webster, Lou B.
Welch, George Stoner
Wells, Dale Owen
Wells, Ulysses George
Welsh, Patrick Joseph
West, Arthur Jerome
West, Ernest L.
W estren, Harry Frederick
Wetzel, Edwin Charles
Wheeler, Clayton Jay
White, Harry Edgar
White, Myers Taylor
Whitmore, Henry
Wickoff, Harry Alphonzo
Wilkey, Arthur Septinius
Willard, Cyrus
Williams, George W.
Williams, Julius J.
Williams, Wm. David
Wilson, James
Wilson, Licuel George
Wilson, Sila~ A.

Winlack, James Trepland
Wirsching, Carl Bernardino
Wirshing, Robert Ernest
Wohefarth, August
Womack, Barney Lee
Wood, Thompson
W oodill, Hiram Blanchard
Woodis, Warren Albe·r t
Wood, Stanley
Woods, Albert Alex.
Braswell, Charles
Clark, Don Denman
Macomber, Launce C.

Woolsey, John Grant
Workman, Boyle
Workman, William Henry
Wray, Marshall Wiley
Wright, Arthur Lowe
Wylie, John Perry
Young, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Youngworth, Leo Valtus, P. M.
Zimmerman, Roy Elden
Zobler, Michael M.
-614
WITHDRAWN:
Miner, Wilbur Thomas
Wiesenberger, Julius
Williams, Ralph Sargent

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bacon, Walter Romayne
Taggart, William Harrison
Bell, James George
Hiller, Edgar Dewey
Jackson, Chester Harold
McLean, John
McKingher, Ermyn Bliss
Rheinchild, George

DIED:
Rudder, Adam
Sexton, Charles Wesley
Sook, Henry Sylvanus
'I'hompson, Thomas •
Wheeler, Ferdinand
Wormwood, Harold Arth"1r

SOUTH GATE LODGE, No. 320.·
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
Corner Thirty-third and Main Streets.
OFFICERS:
Frederick Clements Kruell, Master, Julian Cyrus Jones, Chaplain,
Jefferson and Grand Avenue.
John Oliver Ward, Sen. Deaco11,
Ralph Waldo E. Cole, Sen. Ward., Fred Maurice Mickelson, Jun. Dcac.,
Guy Hyde Caster, Junior Warden, George Edwin Cota, Marshal,
Elbert Taylor Parke, Treasurer,
Ai Forrest Locke, Steward,
Frank Harrison White, Secretary, Willis Foster Oliver, Steward,
330 E . Jefferson Street.
Arthur Milton Bird, Tyler.
Adams, Chester Lowell
Adams, David Lewis
Addis, John La Clair

MEMBERS:
Alexakis, Louis James
Alexander, George
Alford, Chauncey Higley

15~0

Allen, Albert A., P. M.
Anderson, Charles John
Archer, Tobias Robert
Armstrong, Arnold
Arnold, Emmer Bowman
Arnold, Frank Norman
Asbury, Frank Hubert
Atkins, George Mall
Atkinson, Cecil Ross
Austin, Foster Calhoun, P. M.
Baker, Peterson Smith, P. M.
Ball, Charles Edwin
Ball, Robert Bruce
Barber, George Francia
Barber, Jay Burdett
Barlotti, James Anthony
Barnaby, Asa
Barrett, Frederick
Bartlett, Cornelius
Bartlett, Oswald
Bean, George, Jr. ·
Beattey, James Leo
Bell, Edgar Newton
Bellinger, Warren A.
Bellringer, Edward Aubrey
Bentel, Frederick Carl
Berry, Hartley Maxwell
Best, James McCabe
Rettinger, Marcus Clark
Bevan, Eugene Alexander
Beyrle, Robert
Biles, Elmer Ellsworth
Binz, Edward Gabriel
Bird, Arthur Milton
Blake, Benjamin Howard
Blank, George Joseph
Blank, Harry Gordon
Bluff, Charles George
Bobeldy, K. Peter
Boggs, Chas. Alvin
Bonynge, William Alfred
Boone, Richard G.
Bopst, Robert David
Borgum, Edwin Arnold
Bowden, Henry Clinton

ROSTER
Boyd, Geo. Musson
Boyd, Walter Leigh
Bradley, Knowlton R.
Bradley, Leigh Porter
Bradley, William
Brady, Joseph John
Brasher, William Summerville
Briggs, John William
Brinkerhoff, Orlando Bertrum
Brisco, John
Brittain, John Randolph
Brooker, Howard Linsley
Brown, August John
Brown, James Dougal
Brown, James Henri
Brown, Tom James
Buchles, John Wesley Marion
Buckingham, William James
Buhles, Frederick Charles
Bulfinch, Stephen Amoa
Bull, Robert W1Icox
Burgess, Henry Arthur
B~rronghs, Granville George
Butler, Frank Bertrand
Butterfield, John Wesley
Butterworth, Albert Stanton
Caldwell, John Alex.
Caleb, Clarence Jones
Cameron, Allen Wilbur
Campbell, Edward William
Campbell, Emerson Bristol
Campbell, John Bartholomew
Carleton, Ben Harris
Carlson, Milton
Carpenter, John Maline
Carpenter, Leigh Richard
Carter, Harry Von
Carter, Norman Brace
Cartman, Simon Joseph
Case, George Boyd
Casler, Guy Hyde
Cass, Bruce Alonzo
Cayne, James Lloyd
Chalmers, Geo. Buckingham
Chambers, William

ROSTBh
Chesley, Benjamin Millard
Chick, Joseph Earl
Clark, Ray Webster
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
Clemente, Charles C. A.
Coenen, Gustav Adolph
Cole, Ralph W. E.
Collier, F.r ank Chester
Collins, Chal'les W.
Colvin, Robert
Condon, William James
Conklin, Lewis Henry
Conklin, Wright
Cook, Benjamin Augustus
Coon, Chas. Arthur
Copeland, Atwood Reynolds
Costerisan, George Felix
Cota, George Edwin
Cotter, Frank Edward
Cousins, Oliver Ross
Cox, John .Randolph
Cramer, William Henry
Cribb, James Coburn
Crippen, Ellery Hicks
Criswell, Ralph Luther
Crook, Delbert Henry
Cross, William S.
Cuccia, Peter Luke
Cunningham, Elbert Clinton
Curl, Samuel Alexander
Curry, John Michael
Dalton, Nathan
Danenhower, William JamH
Davey, William Edward
Davis, Frank Edward
Davis, Hugh Clinton
DeBerry, Angus Jaeper
Deeds, Douglas Daniel
Deffebach, Elbert
De Haven, James Lap1ley
Deibler, Emanuel Welley
Delamare, Alfred Corbin
Deman, Max
Detlor, John Freeman
D.ieth.elm, Conrad Eugene

Devendorf, Fred Clark
Dill, Robie Everett, P. M.
Domke, Henry Isadore
Donohugh, William Lincoln
Drake, Frank Norton
Drummond, Edwin Charles
Duncan, John
Dunn, Arvine Spencer
Dunn, Frederick William, P M.
Dunn, Geo. Hamilton
Durard, George Felix
. Dusoe, Robert Moses
Dutwiler, Michael Eby
Eader, Lewis William
Earing, Edwin Wood
, Earll, James Cornel1us
Eastman, DeBarrett
Eby, Emmett Lenard
Eby, John Leonard
Eccleston, Joseph William
EMridge, Thomas Bolling
Ellis, Edward Stephen
Ellis, Josephus Elijah
Espe, Frederick
Evans, Frank Robert
Evans, Thomas Jerome
Faithfull, Reginald Percy
Falkenstein, Harry I,.
Farino, Joseph
Faris, William Adam
Farmer, Jasper
Faust, Frank Abner
Fawver, Willis Floyd
Felsenthal, Louis
Fennessy, Thomu Downey
Flanagan, George Lewie
Fleming, Thomas Jefl'erson
Fletcher, John Joseph
Follows, John
Ford, Benjamin Franklin
Foster, Edward Clarence
Francisco, Andrew Wiggins
Franklin, Jame1 Breckenridge
Frost, Arba Wright
Fulton, Preeton Demreth

521

522

Gardiner, John Nesmytb
Gardner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Gates, Arthur Frank
Gaubatz, Louis
Gay, Cassius Mason
Gaynor, William Henry, P. M.
Gebricke, Lee
Gerson, Edward
Giambastiani, Alfredo
Giambaetiani, Egieto
Giambastiani, Francisco
Gibbs, Charles Alfred
Gifford, Arthur Lee
Gifford, Clarence May
Gifford, Robert Lee
Gillett, Fred James
·Girdles tone, Charles Henry
Gleasner, Peter Alex.
Glover, Percy Carson
Goddard, William Henry
Goldman, Clarence Orlando
Goldman, Gordon Bruce
Gollong, Henry Leroy
Gooding, Henry Clay
Graheck, Geo. Andrew
Gray, Frank Richard
Gregg, William Seaton
Griffith, Martin Luther, P: M.
Groft', Charlie Addison
Hackley, G~orge Trowbridge
Hahn, Philip, P. M.
Ha.Ider, Joseph
Hale, Robert, Jr.
Hall, John Allen
Halliwell, Chae. Sleazer
Halliwell, Wm. Henry, Jr.
Hamilton, George Reed
Hampe, George Solomon
Hancock, Walter Perry
Haraztby, Chas. Ernest
Harper, Charles Harvie
Harris, Alfred
Harris, Edwin Benton
Harris, Samuel
Harshbarger, Chas. Arthur

ROSTER

ROS'l'ER
Hart, Dwight Howard
Hart, George Alandson, P. M.
Hart, Harry Elmer
Hastreiter, Rolland Frederick
Hathaway, Worth Murray
Havlin, William Sidwell
Hays, Ewing
Hays, John
Hazen, Robert Lee
Heasley, Harry Walter
Heaton, Charles Page
Hefferman, William Thomas
H eins, Charles Wesley
Henderson, Frank Gilbert
Henrickson, Louis Christian
Henry, Leslie A.
Henry, William Albert
Heyl, Trippon D.
Hicks, Charles Forest
Hill, Horton Overton
Hillman, Archie Melvin
Hillman, Richard George
Hitchcock, William Wesley
Hodge, Edward Tappon
Hoeffer, Albert Herbert
Hoffman, Winnie Eugene
Holliday, Arthur
Holmes, Lawrence
Holton, Harry Wood
Homan, Emil
Hooker, Charles L. F.
Hopperstead, Eric Warren
Horlock, Harry Buckburst
Horton, Rufus Landon
Hossack, Lawrence N.
Housman, Wilbur B.
Howe, George Edward
Howry, Robert Root
Huft', Charles Clayton
Hughes, Eugene Montague
Hunt, Carl William
Hunter, Geo. Seward
Husted, Thomas Seymour
Imus, David Lorren
Irwin, Robert

.

i

Jackson, Delbert Wayne
Janett, John
Jepson, Carl George
Johannsen, Johan Frederick
Johnson, Adolphus Gustavus
Johnson, Chas. Ross
Johnson, Franklin
Johnson, Jfred'k Cbristi11:n
Johnson, Vietor Andrew
Jonas, Clinton Newton
Jonas, Orville Owen
.Tones, Edward Douglas
Jones, George Wiley
Jones, John Jacob
.Jones, Julius Cyrus
Joseph, Leonard
Julius, Peter Michael
Kamellos, Peter
Keeran, Chas. Wm.
Kelker, Lester Collins
Kelsey, Frank Meeker
Kemp, John William, P. M.
Kent, Leo Edward
Kerr, Thomas William
Kilner, William Henry B.
King, Foster Robert
King, George Irving
King, John Millen
King, William Levi
Kinne, Oscar Franklyn
Kinney, Burt Ornon
Kistler, Samuel Lindsley
Kneip, Emil Adolph
Koll, August Juergen
Koll, Walter August
Kolp, William '
Kruell, Frederick Clement
Lamb, Stacey Caldwell
Lamb, Theo. Pusey
La Moree, Claude De Witt
Lang, Frederick Selwyn
Lanterman, Frank Dexter
. Larkin, Albert · Henry
Latham, Leroy
Lauder, Benj. Stewart

' .';2:l

Lawrence, Geo. Alfred
Lawrence, John Gordon
Leary, Frederick Jamc11
Leck, William Frederick
Lenox, Andrew Jackson
Lesoine, John Adam
Lewis, Eugene Arnold
Lickley, Ernest Jame'3on
Linder, Claudius Wade
Lintner, William
Lloyd, Charles
Lloyd, Edward
Lloyd, Francis Harold
Lloyd, Lewis Marshall
Locke, Ai Forrest
Lockwood, Edward Bruce
Losekamp, Gustave Willard
Love, Charles .Evans
Lovelace, Archibald Manuel
Lowe, James Henry Eldon
Lubin, Benjamin
,
Lucore, Clarence Ellsworth
MacDonald, Wm. Henry
MacPberson, Walter Alex.
Macbtig, Eugene
Mainich, John Andrew
Maitre, Charles Joseph
Malloy, James
Mann, John Jacob
Marr, Hinton Nie.bolas
Marsh, Charles Page
Martindale, Walter W.
Mason, Frank George
Mathis, Elbert Nelson
Mathis, John Anthony
Mattbay, F erdinand Louis
Matthews, Clyde Herbert
Mayet', Joseph Bernud
Mays, Terry
McAllister, Frank Allister
McAllister, James Pinkerton, P. M.
McAlpine, David Johnson
McBride, Harper Ellsworth
McClure, Alfred
MeCollister, Charles

BOSTER
McCollum, Alvin Sanborn
McCollum, Frank Elwin
McConnell, Lee Aline
Mccreery, S1unuel Robert
McCulley, William Bissell
McDevitt, Daniel, Jr.
McDonald, Chas. Wm.
McDonald, Frank
McDonald, Norman
McGilliard, Gideon Deloss, P. M.
McGinty, William Gipson
McGraw, James Henry
McGuire, Guy
McKay, William
McKeon, C. Roy
McKeon, Harry
McKinley, James Welford
McKnight, Louis Columbus
Mc.Millan, Daniel Alex.
McNeely, Thomas Berry
Meagher, Charles Francis
Meek, William
Meiklejohn, Matthew Caldwell
Meltzer, Arthur
Meudell, Asa Yoemans
Michelson, Fred Maurice
Milburn, Thoma1 Smedley
Miller, George Francis
Miller, Henry
Miller, Jesse Everett
Miller, Merton James
Miller, Robert Warren
Minton, John Erwin
Mirgon, Frank Ambrose
Molle, Baptist Antoine
Moore, Charles Elijah
Moorhead, Goorge Bonynge
Montgomery, Melville Luther
Montgomery, Wayne Warren
Morgan, Edward Wm.
Morgansten., Alfred J.
Morin, Samuel Williamson
Mosley, Frederick CH:fford
Moss, Jacob Daniel
Moss, Leon Fremont

Moyer, Charles
Muller, Frederick Frank
Murch, Edward Weston
Murphey, Charles Simon
Musselman, John William, P. M.
Myers, Cecil Bauer
Myers, Chas. Lincoln
Nance, Roy
. Nadeau, Hubert
N elger, Richard Albert
Neiswender, Chester Bernard
Newell, John J.
Nicolaus, William
Niederer, Walter John
Noble, Ivory Bean
Norton, Chalmers Scott
Oakes, Edward Taylor
Odemar, Fritz
Oliver, Wm. Foster
Olsen, Julius
Olshausen, Olfwald Leo.
Ourfalian, Paul Larken
Palmer, Amos Lorenzo .
Park, Albert David
Parke, Elbert Taylor, P. M.
Parke, Oliver Hazard P., P. M
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Ira
Parker, Joseph Paul
Parker, Robert
Parsons, Alfred Harry
Pauly, Julius
Pawley, James
Pawley, Joshua Medlin
Payne, Rottham Kenner
Pearne, Jamie Dillaye
Pearson, Ralph Richmond
Pepping, John
Perrelli,. Roxey
Peters, Charles Rufus, Jr.
Peters, · David Bushem
Peterson, Frederick Erskine
Pepe, Fernando
Perry, Arthur St. Clair
Pessell, George Douglas

Pfaff, Willlam Henry
Philp, Harry Grafton Rowe
Phister, Richard Louis, P. M.
Pierce, Franklin Gibson
Pierce, Fred 'k Edgar Roger
Pike, Charles
Porter, William Sterling
Posch, John
Potter, Bernard
Potts, Henry Samuel
Pratt, Frank Fay
Preston, Jasper Newton
Pretz, Jacob Christian
Pritchard, Stephen Lacy, P. M.
Prosser, Albert John
Quitzow, Charles
Ralston, Danton Ellms
Ramsden, Craven
Randall, Ottho Lee
Rank, Isaac Elliott
Rankin, William John, P. M.
Rebman, John
Reed, Charles Joseph
Redd, Harry Leroy
Reel, Peter Alex.
Retger, George Wash., Jr.
Ricciardi, Nicholas A.
Rice, George Basserman
Rice, James Edward
Richter, Joseph Edward
Riedeman, .John Henry
Riggle, Elmer Willis
Roberti, Edward Lincoln
Roberts, Guy Malcom
Robinet, Joseph Z.
Robinson, Clarence Curtemius
Rockwell, Allen Baer
Roeder, Frederick
Roeder, Karl, Jt.
Rohde, Charles Julius
Romig, James Posttleld
Rose, Daniel T.
Rose, Louis Carl
Rossiter, Holland Benson
Roth, August

Roth, Otto Morris
Rowe, Wm. Henry, Jr.
Rudolph, Wm. Fred
Russell, Robert Nimmo
Ryse, Richard
Salyer, Alfred Mark
Salyer, Charles Alfred
Sanders, George Leon
Saunders, William Se7tnour
Sartwell, John Royal
Sautter, Alfred
Savage, William Edward
Schmalzried, Ed'!'fard
Schmitz, John
Schultz, Carl Edgar
Schwartz, Adolph
Scott, Arthur M'Oneman
Senegram, Philip
Shafer, Charles Franklin
Shafer, Timothy Elsworth
Shaw, William Herbert
Shearer, Geo. Wm.
Sheets, Sylvester Newton
Short, Carroll Wilson
Shott, William Philip
Sibley, Wm. Morgan
Siefert, John W.
Simonson, Albert
Smgleton, James William, P. M.
Skelton, Horace White
Skinner, Eckert
Slater, James Andrew
Sinter, William R.
Smith, Fred Geo.
Smith, George William
Smith, Herbert Lee
Smith, Isaac Horatio
Smith, Jacob August
Smith, Jamee
Smith, Llewellyn James
Smith, Robert Jefferson
Smith, Robert Pendleton
Smith, Samuel Barnes
Smith, Stanley Bishop
Snowden, William Nelson

525

526
I

Sohm, Alfred
Sprague, James Wesley
Stader, Jacob Edward
Stansberry, Charles Vivian
Stauffer, Roy Alton
Startzman, Charles Frederic
Steckel, George
Stewart, John Taylor
Stine, Isaac D.
Stone, William Harry
Stopp, John Franklin
Strayer, Arthur James
Sugarman, Jacob Jay
Sullivan, Frank Marion
Summers, Alexis Charles
Summers, Samuel Lee
Sutton, Gilbert Campbell
Suydam, James Stothoff
Sweet, Charles Alvin, P. M.
Sweet, Lewis Stephen
Tanner, David Wolf
Tanner, Wallace Lional
Taylor, Edson Baldwin
Thompson, Frank Westland
ThQmpson, Joseph Shepherd
Thompson, Rip Victor
'rhompson, Samuel Hueston
Tierman, Samuel
Tipton, Charles Melville
Tipton, Melville Rowe
Todd, Ulysses Samuel G., P. M.
Trainor, John
Trainor, John William
Traster, William Harrison
Trisler, Edgar Wright
Tritt, William Winters, P. M.
Truesdell, Clifford Ambrose
Tubman, William
Tulloch, Thomas Mcintosh
Unwin, Erlward George Oxford
Valiant, Charles Weldon
Valiant, Frank Doble
Valiant, Harry Alfred
Van Alstyne, George Warren
Van Horn; Chas. Edward

ROSTER
Van Norman, Harvey Arthur·
Van Norman, James Linn
Van Steenis, Genit Martin
Van Tobie, Karl William
Viero, John Paul
Vigne, George Eugene F.
Wagner, Daniel Arthur
Walker, Blaine
Walker, John Ansley
Walker, Perry Jay
Wallace, Edward Harris
Walsh, Frank Edward
Walter!!, William Thomas
Ward, John Oliver
Webb, Charles Marion
Weber, John
Weichmann, Henry Philip
Weinspach, Erwin Roland
· Weisbart, Lewis
Weiser, Abraham Grant
Welch, William Ormond
Wellborn, Charles
Wells, Charles Jedidiah
Werdin, Ernest Rudolph
Wetmore, Willis David
Wheat, Hiram Rogers
Wheeler, John Bernard
Wheeler, Royall Walter
Wheeler, Wm. Ashley
White, Arthur Burton
White, Frank Harrison
Whitfield, Robert
Whitehead, Alex.
Whitehead, Hugh
Whitman, Eugene Martin
Whitney; Grant Ulysses ·
Whomes, Clarence Sinclair
Wickersham, Daniel Ross ·
Wickstrom, Eric Gustave
Wilcox, Kearney Lee, P. M.
Wilcut, John Alfred
Wiles, Solomon Franklyn
Wilkinson, Thomas Bertrand
Williams, Charles Allen, P. M.
Willis, Charles Golden

ROSTER
Wilson, Andrew Porter
Wilson, Frank Stewart
Wilson, Nathaniel Elmer
Wolf, Frank Charles, P; M.
Wolf, Frank Edward
Wood, Emerson Lee
Wood, George Henry
Wood, Jack Arthur
Workman, Robert Ferguson
Wright, George Veach

527

Wuesthoff, Maumilian W.
Wyman, Elliott Bailey
Wyman, Frank Irving, Jr.
Yard, Edmond De Witt
Young, Walton
Young, William, P. M.
Zarrs, Hobart Ralph
Zarubica, .Sako
Ziegler, John Louis
-055

WITHDRAWN:
Bailey, John Sherman
tBlum, Abraham
Flinn, John Howard
Labarere, Henry Lawrence
Longo, Ignacio

Margrander, Fred Oswald
Sentous, Camille
Staples, Charles Robert
Titus, Robert Hill
White, Robert

EXPELLED:
Watson, John. William
DIED:
Cash, Charles DeAlton
Mitchell, Alexander Muir
Gray, Alexander
Odell, Abram Henry
Marston, Luther Moulton
Rannells, John William
Taylor, Charles Russell
*Atflliated during the year.

ALISAL LODGE, No.

321.

Pleasanton, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, First Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Peter Rock, Master,
Pleasanton, Cal.
Crawford Letham, Senior Warden,
John Carl Stannard, Jun. Warden,
Edward L. Benedict, Treasurer,
Louis C. Walter, Secretary,
Pleasanton, Cal.

Wilbur J. Dakin, Chaplain,
J. Hal. Cope, Senior Deacot1,
W . H . Graham, Junior Deacon,
Thomas H. Silver, Marshal,
P. C. Madsen, Steward,
J. Paulsen, Steward,
George Trinningham, Tyler.

528

ROSTER

!tu:S'J' Elt

MEMBERS:
Albrecht, Herman William
Harris, Thomas William, P. M.
Apperson, Elbert Clark
Helms, Joh.n ,Bobert
Bannister, Joseph Arnold
Hitchcock, Jess
Benedict, Edward Lewis
Hopper, Wm. Wesley
Bonde, Hans Peter
Jury, Riley
Bryan, Daniel
Kupper, John Adam
Cale, .John 'rhomas
Letham, Crawford
Chadbourne, Henry Pierce, P. M.
Madsen, Pe.ter Cleveland
Colestock, Logan Alfred
Mayo, Clarence Earl
Cope, John Hal
Meyerhoffer, Oke Harold
Corbett, Henry Havelock
Mohr, Henry Paul, P. M.
Crellin, Charles Louie
Paulsen, James
Crellin, Earle Adair
Peach, Rathsay Castle
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Peteri;;on, Antone Iversen
Crinkshank, James Robert
Richards, George Henry
Dall, Christian Hansen
Rock, Peter
Day, Arthur Chester
Saunders, Joseph W.
' Day, Walter
Schad, George Edward
Dakin, Wilbu.r Jameson, P. M.
Schween, Walter James
Ebright, Aaron Wallace
Schween, William Frederick
Ellis, Robert
Silver, Thomas Homer, P. M.
E'eusier, Henry Edward C.
Sinclair, Hugh Arnold
um, James s.
Smallwood, Claude
Graham, Wm. Horace
Stannard, John Carl
Haley, John Tacl
Therkelsen, Hans Christian
Hall, Ernest Edwin, P. M.
Thorup, Pedar Christian
Trimingham, George
Hall, Fred James
Walter, Louis Christian, P. M.
Harms, Martin Frederick E.
~58
Harris, Neal
Wells, Samuel Jenkins, P. M.
DIED:
Johnson, George

ALHAMBRA -LODGE, No.

529

322.

Alhambra, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jimmie Napier Hall, Master,
112 W. Grand Avenue,
James Charles Woods, Jim. Ward.,
Charles Wesley Allen, Treasurer,
Lafayette Laney W'hite, Secretary,
409 South Fourth Street.

Addison Loche Roache, Chaplain,
Norman David Brittle, Sen. Deac.,
Ulysses Hickmann, Marshal,
Harry Walter Slotterbeck, Steward,
John Niles Gillis, Steward,
Theodore Knight, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Abbot, Joseph Rodney
Adams, Scott Mygatt
Algie, Matthew
Allen, Charles Wesley
Anderson, Charles Axel
Andres, Frank Edward
Bailey, Charles Alden
Bailey, Elmer Ellsworth
Baron, Joseph Vincent
Baynton, Geo. Harvey
Behlow, Irwin Wesley Merritt
Behlow, Robert Roscoe
Beier, Edgar Lindsay
Bennett, Geo . . Garrett
Biddle, George Arthur
Bishop, Charles Alden
Bolz, Emil
Borden, Gail
Brady, Charles Evey
Brady, Ernest Lasota
Brase, Joseph
Brase, ~obert Adolph
Breckenridge, Fran~ William
Brittle, David
Brittle, Norman David
Bronaugh, Charles Augustus
Bronaugh, Daniel Dodge
Brown, Burton Leroy
Brown, Edgar D.
Brown, Fred
34

Bullis, Sherman Allen, P. M.
Butterbaugh, Melvin Ulysses, P. M.
Cartwright, Alex. Benjamin
Cartwright, Benj. Brooks, P. M.
Cartwright, James Lawson
Caulk, Harry Parsons
Chandler, Charles Woods
Charles, Merrill Stull
Chapman, Frank Alvin
Clapp, Arhcibald Willard
Clapp, Ralph Bissell, P. M.
Clapp,. Randall Corning
Clarke, Ernest Lester
Cohen, Benjamin
Coon, Thaddeus Stevens
Corey, Francis Edwin
Cornell, Ernest Bone
Cosby, Spain Stuckey
Creamer, James Montgomery, P. M.
Crow, Samuel Dickinson
Damon, William H.
Dee, Harold Douglas
Diebenkorn, Clarence E.
Dolge, Henry
Drake, Samuel Ambrose
Dyer, Ralph Hanson
Easley, Oscar Franklin
Edwards, David Wm., Jr.
Elbert, Geo. J.
;Everdon, Clifford Hal.leek

530

ROSTER
'ROSTER

Favily, Rolland Blaine
Ferguson, Edwin Paul
Flaisig, Nathan William
Fleming, Earl Jules
Fohman, Eugene
Foote, Robert Ordway
Ford, Ernest Elwood
Fosdick, Clarence Watson
Garard, Walter Raymond
Gaskell, Herbert Evarts
Gates, Austin Bryant
Gates, George DaYid
Gillies, John Niles
Graham, Clarenco Van
Grainger, Ernest Cornelius
Gray, Francis Edward
Greene, Earle Wells
Hall, Arthur Frederick
Hall, Jimmie Napier
Hanley, George Thomas
Hanscome, Henry Irving, P. M .
Hanscome, Lewis P.
Hatch, Theophilus
Haub, Frank
Heslop, Stephen J.
Hawkins, Arthur George
Hazelhurst, .Tames L.
Hazelton, Will Edwin
Henke, Bernard Antone
Herold, James Ernest
Hickman, Emery Ulysses
)folt, Thomas Eli,iah E.
Hover, David Edward
Hudson, Chas. Wm.
Ingraham, Freeman .Edwin
Jarecki, Raymond Willis
Johnson, Albert John
J ohn~on, August
Johnson, Frank Leon
Johnson, Henry Alfred
Johnston, Rufus
Jones, Cary Wilson
Jones, Jefferson Davis
Jones, Jefferson Thomas
Kaufman, Charles F.

Kea ting, Henry C.
Kerr, Matthew
Kimba11, Andrew Hervey
Lansford, James M.
Lansford, Russell Roscoe
Larson, Earnest A.
Lattin, Frank Byron
Lattin, Kelley Walter
Lee, Stewart
Leonard, Elwood W.
Lingenfelder, Edward
Lloyd, William FraziPr
Lord, Thomas Newton
Lundy, Walter James
MacClean, Wm. A.
Malcom, William
March, Daniel Webster
Marshall, Fred Whitney
Marshall, Frank Valentine
Martin, Robert S.
McDonald, Henry Dalton
McDonough, James
Messenger, Albert C.
Messenger, B ernard Ellis
Messenger, John
Middleton, William Philip
Miles, Harry Stora
Miller, Jacob
Molique, Philip R.
Montgomery, Arthur A.
Montgomery, James Mai:ion
Morgan, Guy Stephen
Mulock, Daniel Connolly
Mundy, Stephen Edwin
Munsell, William Alex. Oliver
Murray, James Cargill
Myers, John Albert
Myren, Olof G., P. M.
Nenendorfer, Charles
Nice, Harry Warren
Northrup, William Moulton, P. M.
Morris, John Phillip
Olson, Frank Thomae
Olson, Hans
Olson, Henry John, P. M.

531

Parker, Benjamin Franklin
Swan, Harry E.
Passino, Frnnklin Gilbert
Taylor, Walter T.
Pattm, Freilerick William
Teagarden, Jacob Brown
Pederson, Christen
Thompson, Newton Warren, I'. M.
Pederson, Theodore
'fhuna.ck, Jnlius Hermann
Perkins, Frank Albert
Utter, Frank Ames
Pitzer, Sloan, P. M.
Van Hagen, Fred
Prince, Purley Ogden
Wade, Clarence Francis
Proctor, Don Pascal
Wade, Harry Michael
Radcliff, Francis Henry
Wailace, Robert Bruce
Reighard, Earl Marion
WaIJace, Robert M.
Reighard, Wave
Walters, Simon
Reynolds, Duncan L.
Wardman, Geo. Benj8min
Rief, Hans
Ware, Henry Peace
Roach e, Addison Locke
Webb, Elwood Thomas
Robins, Leigh Hoskyns
Webb, Ezra Bailey, Jr.
Robinson, Thomas Wilfred
W eymire, George Eugene
Rodgers, Lester Denison
Whaley, Albert Ailen
Rose, Bertram Donald
Wheat, Charles Albert
Rossi, Albert
White, Douglas
Seay, John Philip
White, L. D.
Sexton, Joseph Brownell
Wickerd, Homer Merritt
Shafer, Edgar Esterley
Wilbur, Andrew
SjppreIJ, William A.
Wilks, Frank
Slotterbeck, Harry Walter
Willard, Frank Stansbury
S.mith, Chas. V.
Willfa, William Elmer
Smith, Roy Thornton
Winter, Chas. W.
Smither, John W.
Wirth, George
Sorenson, Neal, P. M.
Witherbee, Orville O., P. M.
Stanton, Edmund Wood
Wood, Wm. D.
Stevens, William Oliver
Woods, James Chas.
Stewart, Hugh Ford
Woolpert, Royal Myren
Stone, Fred George
Wuest, Samuel Franklin
Strifler, Chester Eldrige
Yearian, Wm. Henry
Stuart, Edward Brookbank, P. M . .YelJand, George L.
Sutton, Earl Vernon
Yerian, Clyde
-222
WITHDRAWN:
Cari, Albert Vernon

532

ROSTER

ROSTER

I

WHITTIER LODGE, No. 323.
Whittier, Los Angeles County.·
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Lee Clinton Sawin, Master,
Charles St;mley Mook, Chaplain,
Whittier, Cal.
Charles Rufus Holton, S m . Deac.,
Ralph McNees, S enior Warden,
Ralph Everett Heath, !tmior Deacon,
Edward Prince Haskell, Jun. Ward., Lonnie Clarence Montgomery, Mar.,
John Henry Gwin, Treasurer,
John Clayton Squires, Steward,
Edwin Hiscutt Payne, Secretary,
Cyrus Elmer Trueblood, Steward,
Box 306, Whittier, Cal.
John Wesley Whitson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Cunningham, Ed, Clark
Adams, William George
Albertson, Emery
Dahlitz, Paul
Albertson, Olney Christopher
Davidson, Lewis Halberton
Allen, Milo
Davis, James William
Arfweuson, Carl Edward
De Ment, Earl Hilton
Ault, Henry
Denninger, Paul John, P . M.
Barnes, Wilbert Edwin
Denney, Lewie Hoyt
Bauer, Lewis Jacob ·
Dreesor, William L.
Dunham, Ozro Kenneth
Bell, Samuel Henry, P. M,
Billingsley, Jonathan
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.
Binford, David Samuel
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Er.
Blasdel, Elijah Sparks
Edeburn, Edward B.
Ellis, Nathan D., P. M.
Blinn, Irving Lewie
Bold, Francis James
Emory, Arthur Theo.
Borden, Lindon. A.
Evans, Christmas Stephen
Evans, John W,
Bostaph, Charles A.
Essley, Edgar L.
Buck, John Henry
Fairchild, John Jasper
Buffington, Charles Clifton
Farnsworth, John C.
Butman, John 8.
Butterfield, Edward Clarence, P;' M. Flanders, George Hiram
Flanders, Ray Johnston
Burke, Edwin Alonzo
Fletcher, Frank Augustus
Cata.well, Chas. Joseph
Foster1 Fred Monroe
Coverley, John Henry
Frampton, Thomas Madge, P. M.
Campbell, Allan Bruce
Frantz, Frank Edward
Campbell, Frank Chester
Frantz, Raymond Fleetwood
Carter, Eber Earnest
French, Eugene Kinkade
Cornett, James Henry
Fletcher, Marcus Elwood
Crane, Donald Leroy, P. M.
Gilman, Charles Sidney
Culver, Bert Lewis

Gwin, Ancii
Gwin, John Henry
Gray, Fred Willie
Gregg, Augustus Hugh
Guthrie, Finis William, P. M.
Haskell, Edward Prince
Hatch, Richard Melvin
Hazzard, Frederick A.
Hazzard, George Lee
Hazzard, Marshall Lyman
Hayes, Samuel Buchanan
Heath, Ralph Everett
Hendrickson, John F .
Henry, Samuel L awrence
Hiatt, John C.
Hiatt, William Macy, P. M.
Hill, George Goldsmith
Holbrook, Morrill
Hole, Willett J,
Holton, Charles Rufus
Hunt, Milo
Hutchinson, Manuel B.
Inners, Aaron
Jacobs, Alfred
Johnson, Lewis
.Tones, Stephen Luther
Keene, E<l. Ballard
Kendrick, Henry W.
Kinsler, Charles Clement
Lawhead, George C.
Lloyd, Thomas Ervin
Locke, James S.
Maddox, Jeff Thomas
Martin, Oscar David
Martin, William Herndon
Maulsby, Larkin W.
Maulsby, Orlando Wood
McDonald, Hugh
McMillen, David Madison
McNees, Ralph
Miller, Frank · De
Moorhead, Talbert Buchanan .
Morehous, Benjamin Franklin
Monroe, George Walter
Montgomery, Lonnie Clarence

Myers, Leniuel AlJen
Nickson, John
Owens, Frank Centennial, P. M.
Pu.yne, Edwin Hiscutt
Pease, James Gibson
Powers, Jerome Frank, P. M.
Rainbolt, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Raymer,. Floyd Parkie
Reed, Arthur Lucius
Reed, Case Arthur
Reed, Ralph John
Rees, Cassius Alfred
Rees, Winfield Scott
Reichling, William George, P. M.
Reid, Daniel
Reider, Eddy Willis ·
Rendleman, Andrew Jackson
Risum, Chris
Robbins, Fred
Roberts, John Clifford
Rogers, Ora Earl
Russell, William Henry
Rutherford, John Ashley
Sargent, Frederick Oscar
Sargent, George Herbert
Sawin, Lee Clinton
S11henck, Daniel Brininger
Seamans, Carl Horace
Seaver, Fred Solon
See, Marshall Marion
Seeley, .Jamee Brown
Smiley, Wm. Harrison
Smith, Alexander
Smith, Benjamin Harrison
Smith, Warren
Smith, William Alfonzc
Souden, Oscar May
Squires, John Clayton
Stacker, John M\rtine
Steinart, Bernard William
Stewart, James Hope, P. !.!.
Stone, Frederick GeorgtSwain, Arthur William
Swaine, Charles Seymour
'l'odcl, Joseph S.

533

ROSTER

51H
Tomlinson, William Neeld
Triggs, George Elmer
Tyler, Guy
Vernon, Walter A.
Waer, Robert
Wardman, Wm. John Aubrey
Way, Robert B., P. M.
Whitson, .John Wesley

Wheatland, Earl Manford
Wiles, Joseph Mansfield
Wilson, Horace P.
Woglum, Russell S;l.ge
Woodward, Ray Ralph
Wright, John E.
Wyatt, John Philip, P. M.

ROSTER

-163

WITHDRAWN:
Wilson, Norris Remington
DIED:
Wood, John

CORONA LODGE, No. 324.
Pasa(iena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Mt>etings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Alvin Wallace Viney, Master,
Garrett Foster Van Sickle, Chaplain,
Boston Bldg., Pasadena, Cal.
Dorr Gilbert Chapman, Sen. Deacon,
John Visscher Eliot, Sen. Warden, Edward Ludington Eliot, Jun. Deac.,
Edwin J ohn Goins, Jun. Warden,
H umbei:t Louis Gianetti, Marshal,
George Alvin Daniels, Treasurer,
Leonard Oscar Bigham, Steward,
Norval Gibson Felker, Secretary,
Bert Stoddard, S teward,
692 South El Molina Avenue, Pasa-George Rasmus Weaver, Tyler.
dena, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Aberle, John
Baxter, John Fleeger
Allen, Andrew Smith
Baxter, Samuel Castner '
Allen, Robert Stuart
Beach, Fitz E.
Allin, John
Beal, Michael L.
Andrews, Harry Eugene
Behai, Shua Ullah
Armstrong, Robert
Bell, Charles Webster
Aylor, Thomas George
Bell, Nelson William
Backus, George Allen
Bergen, Guy Fisher
Bagby, Warren Winslow
Bigham, Leonard 0.
Bailey, Prank Woods
Blankenhorn, Louis
Batchelder, Benj. Fra!lklin, P. M.
Bia tz, Herman
Batchelder, Ernest Allen
Bleecker, John Jamea
Baxter, Chas. Irwin
Blick, John Charlee

Blick, Joseph James
Boner, Frank Sherman
Boucher, William Abbott
Bowie, Hanson Rutter
Braddock, Oscar Louis
Bragdon, John Ransom
Brigham, George .: Franklin
Brown, Frediirick Leonard
Brown, George Elmer
Brown, Howard Blackman
Brown, Ira W.
Brownson, Howard Eu~ene
Burnham, :f'rederick Russell
Butler, Maynard Balch
Byram, .Joseph Hull
Byrne, .Jame11 Edward
Cambell, James HaJlford
Carr, Frank Leslie
Carrothers, Walter Roland
Carter, William Mathews
Cartzdafner, Frank LeRoy
Cary, George Peter
Case, Gideon Seward, P. M.
Catalano, Joseph Canzone
Chamberlain, Arthur Henry
Chamberlain, Clarence Edwh1
Chapman, Dorr Gilbert
Chase, He11ry Ashley
Chatfield, Harry Ives
Cheever, Roy Russell
Clark, Edwin
Clark, George Albert
Clif ton, Harry Trumbull, P. M.
C:ook, William Vanalstine
Coolidge, Douglaa William
Crandall, Charles Joseph
Crowell, Wllliam Chamberlain
Daniels, George Alvin
Davies, William Tremper
Davis, George Ruasell
Davis, Jesse :Miller
Davis, Joseph Edward
Davis, Mayhew Whiteeall
Deacon, George
Dickinson, Gardiner William•

Dodge, Harry Kinsman
Dodworth, Allen Roy
Doty, H enry Aaron
Douglas, Robert Hansy
Dunham, Samuel Gaston
Durrell, Carleton Edgar
Dussault, Rudolph Ralph
Dyer, H eman
Eason, Robert, P. M.
Eliot, Edward Ludiniton
Eliot, John Vissoher
Ellingwood, Elliott Lee
Elliot, Norman Hugh
Ewing, James Andrew
F ar1rer, Chas. Clifford
Farrand, Thomae Manchester
Felker, Norval Gibson, P. M.
Fish, Clinton Thomas
Fogg, William Kelty
Folsom, Benj.
Foltz, Hudson
Frary, Leander Warren, P. M.
Frost, Charles Henl'y
Frost, Stephen Charles
Furness, Joseph Clarence
Gaylord, Albert Patterson
Gaylord, Robert Rorace
Geohegan, Harl'y
Gianetti, Humbert Louis
Gibbs, George Albion
Gilmore, William Duncan
Gillmor, David Todd
Gillmor, GrMit
Goins, Edwin John
Gordon, Theodore Granger
G.r ace, Frederick Albert
Green, Manly P.
Greene, Henry Mather
Griffin, Percy Geo.
Griffin, Richard Frank
Groenendyke, Edward, P. M.
Guion, Arthur
Hadley, James Luther
Halsted, Samuel Ha:a rd
Hamilton, Arthur Lineoln

535

536
Hamilton, Nathaniel W.
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Hansen, Waldemar Grant
Harris, Edwin Bailey
Harris, Fred Reid
Hawkins, Arthur Lou
Hawkins, John William
Heflinger, Edward Andrew
Henderson, Leroy Munson
Henricks, Chas. W.
Herlihy, David Walter
Hertel, Herman Rudolph
Heyn, Robert Nicolas
Hill, Charles D.
Hinds, Joseph Edwin
Hobbs, Sidney Freeman
Hoge, Smith B.
Holland, Wm. H., P. l\'I,
Holt, Herbert Charles
' Honberger, Paul Sprenger
Hooper, Le Roy
Hortan, George Clifford
Hubbard, Wm. Henry
Huddleston, Clayton F.
Huff, Melvin Byron
Huggins, Fred Trotwood
Jackson, Alfred Conningsby
Jackson, Charles William
Jacobs, Julius Richard
Johnston, Franklin Herbert
JoneA, Frecleriek Clifford
Jones, Paul Vernon
Jones, William Lloyd
Kay, Norman E.
Kelty, Elisha F. B.
Kemp, Albert Henry
Kerr, Joseph Young
Keyes, Charles Henry
Khazoyan, Haigeg Hagop
Knight, William Franklin
Knox, Rosc·oe C.
Kohler, Eugene Ferdinand
Lacey, Courtney
· '
Lawrence, William Johnston
.Laws, John· Elmer

ROSTER

ROSTER

Learned, Leslie Elias
Leishman, Wm. Lathrop
Leithead, William Wilson
Lisk, Byron
Lockwood, Charles Dana
Maccormack, William
MacCoy, Wm. Edward
MacLaughlin, Leo Garnett
Macomber, Abraham Kingsley
Makepeace, Thomas Ransome
Malaby, Zachary Taylor
Marquardt, J eese Claude
Marston, Sylvanus Broadman
Mattison, Fitch Champlin E.
May, Ernest Heath, P. M.
Mccament, John Oliver
McDonald, Robert Walker
McLarn, Robert H arper
McNally, Patrick James
McPherson, William Penton
Meadows, Layton Everett
Merriam, John Howard
Merritt, Cecil Adelbert
Merwin, Dnncan Salisbury
Metcalf, Hiram Franklin
Miller, Edward L.
Minassian, John Horhanner
Montgomery, Hugh Eglinton
Moody, Wm. Herbert
Mueth, Adolph Albert
Mulligan, Edward Howell
Munson, Byron
Munson, Spencer M., P. M .
Neff, Edwin Dorland
Nelmes, Thomas Hussey
Nettleton, Ashbel Griswold
Nevin, William Harbaugh
Nevins, Joseph Nelson
Newby, Henry
Nicholl~, John Sprague
Nichols, Walter Edmund
Odell, Samuel Wm.
Oft', Edward T .. ,.
Orban, Peter, P. M.
Owen, Joseph
0

Paine, Romeyn Melvin
Palmer; Arthur Hopkins, P. M.
Parker, Harold A.
Parnay, Serope Yedicar'n
Patee, Lester Gilbert ·
Patten, Henry Sheridan
Patton, J. Howard
Pearce, James Henry
Pearman, John Henry
Perkins, Henry Alfred
Permar, David Wilson
Petrie, Connor Moyle
Pierce, Sterling Newton
Pierce, William Henry
Pierce, William Jacob
Pitcher, Henry Burnap
Porter, Lafayette Seward
Powers, Fremont
Preston, Leslie Hansbury
Priaulx, Percival James, P. M.
Proudfoot, Frederick M.
Proudfoot, John
Pyle, Edward Jehu
Quillin, Asbury
Raftery, Leon Francis
Ranney, Henry Collings
Ranney, Wm. St. John
Rawles, Joseph Arthur
Rawls, Rufus Bennett
Reynolds, Charles Calvin
Rhodes, Chas. Edgar
Roberts, Richard Stockton
Roberts, William I!umes, P. M.
Rossiter, John Gourmle:ir
Rowland, A. Lincoln
Rowray, James Byron
Sadler, Alden Howard
Sanborn, William Elmer
Sargent, Chester Davis
· Schroeder, Diedrich
Schwacofer, Edward Blake
Schwartz, DaYid Barnette
Schroedler, Otto
Sheldon, Lionel Allen
Sherman, Henry Bushwell

Sherry, Henry, P. M.
Sherwood, George
Shook, Otho Mol'timer
Short, Albert N.
Short, Benj. Atonza
Shumway, Charles Dwight
Simpson, John Hifford
Skillen, Charles Moses
Skillen, Ralph George
Slavin, Matthew
Smith, Edward Clarence
Smi~h, Elbert Whitney
Smith, Frederfok George
Smith, Williani Charles
Smith, William Henry
Smith, Willis Hubbard
Snowball, MacDougall
Soale, Wilson Hamer
Spahr, .Tohn Clarence
Spake, Wm. Henry
Staats, William Richardson
Stafford, John D.
Stanton, Edwin Moore
Stanton, William
Stearns, Charles Henry
Stocks, Thomas J.
Stoddard, Bert
Stuart, Holloway' Ithamer
Sturdevant, Charles Victor
Sullivan, Daniel Cornelius
Swan, Frederick ·Howard
Taylor, Wm. Allen
Test, Lemuel Langstaff, P. M.
Thomas, Frank Newton
Thompson, Charles Santford
Thompson, Timothy
Turner, Bruce
Turner, John Fulton
Turner, Lewis Horace
Tuthill, Ralph Ford
Twombly, Fred Eugene
Upton, Samuel Warren
Vanderhoff,.Melancthon H.
VanNuys, William. Nelson
Van Sickle, Garret Foster

537

!)38

. ROSTER
Clark, Wm. L.
Connor, Mayrant
Conway, Meredith, P. M.
Covell, William A.
Crise, Bruce L.
Crise, David
Crise, Henry Null
Dickson, John Cha!'les
Dickson, Samuel Clark, P . M.
Ealey, Walter E.
Estes, Payton Wade
<iarrett, Benjamin G.
Graff, Wm. E.
Hayes, Hiram C.
Heath, James H.
Hinman, Byron
Howell, M. L .
Huffman, Robert L,
Jen kins, George R.
Jereslaw, William
Judson, John N.
Kies, Byron W.
Lehner, George
Marshall, Henry
McNiel, Lewis W.
Merriam, Gustavus F.
Moon, Alonzo R.
Morris, John Knox

Wilkie, Luther Erwin
Willett, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Williams, Thomas Arthur
Wilson, Wynn Edwin
Winters, Roy Leia-hton
Wood, J. Perry
Wood, John Windell
Wood, Melvin Edgar
Wooster, Charles, P. M.
Worley, Norman Emett
Wotkyns, Walter Livingston, P. M.
Wotkyns, Webster
Wright, Thompson Barrett
Young, William Peter
Zangraft, Henry
Zuell, William Leander
-32&

Viney, Alvin Wallace
Wald, August Martin
Wallace, James Temple
Wallace, Silas Ives
Walters, Joseph Joshua
Ward, Victor Leigh
Warren, Kenyon
Warren, William
Weaver, Fred Joseph
Webster, Joseph Carl
Weed, Oscar F., P. M.
Welsh, James Augustus, .Tr.,
Wesson, George Alfred
Wheeland, Charles Grier
White, Arthur Tisdale
White, George Henry
Andrews, Dorsey Giles
Anderson, Homer John
Eipp, John Peter

ROSTER

WITHDRAWN:
Fessenden, Alfred Newton
Gray, Edward Everett
Kiesling, Henry ·
Roberts, George Burhans

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lukens, John Arendt
Barlow, Hiram Woods
Patterson, Schuyler C.
Dockery, John Otto

*Clough, Edgar Elwin
Gaylord, Wallace Kendall

DIED:
Slate, Farnum Loraine
Smith, Charles W~uen

Nordahl, Andrew W.
Nordahl, Oscar Carl
Oaks, David T.
Oaks, Oliver
Palmeter, Chas. Sumner
Phillips, Andrew
Plowman, A. R.
Pray, Alfred Wm.
Ramey, William Luther, P. M.
Reed, Sewall A.
Risden, Elmer G.
Risden, N. S.
Steiner, Sigmund
Stevenson, Frank H.
Stevenson, Lloyd A. •
Tarvin, E . M.
Teed, Hamilton J.
Turrentine, Edgar E.
Turrentine, Howard B.
Turrentine, John Neil, P. M.
Vanasen, William H.
Van ·Derveer, Jacob L., P. M.
Whetstone, John A.
Wisdom, Pierce J.
Witt, Charles G.
Wohlford, Alvin W.
Worth, Jehoida J.

WITHDRAWN:
Dickson, George G.

•Affiliated during the year.

Kelley, John L.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bailey, Clinton J.

CONSUELO LODGE, No. 325.
:&acondido, Ban Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Boyle, James

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate.

Bailey, Charles Wesley
Baldridge, William Henry
Blount, C. E.
r oldridge, Chas. w.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Burdett, Fra11k F,
Butler, William Nelson
Carpenter, Wm. W., Jr., P. M.
Churchill, Edward :Marion, p , M.

•

DIED:
Dunn, Alvin Delos
Marshall, Hugh J.

539

540

' ROSTER

NEEDLES LODGE, No. 326.
Needles, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Angell Shepard, Master,
Wilford Cubbage, Chaplain,
Needles, Cal.
Otis Wm. Schlueter, Sm. Deacon~
Frank Boyce Krallman, Sett. Ward., Willard A. Weiss, Junior Deacon,
James Thornwell White, Ju1i. Ward., William M. Claypool, Marshal,
Elmer N. Baker, Treasurer,
Charles Walter Phillips, Stewar,d,
Henry Harry NyGren, Secretary,
Arthur Woodward Silvers°, Steward;
Box 83, Needles, Cal.
Enoch M. Brown, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackerly, William Keating
Ahrens, Henry
Anderson, Henry Temple
Armantage, John
Armington, J. B.
Baker, Elmer N., P. M.
Baldwin, Harry Coffee
Ballenger, Dan Robert
Beath, Clarence Gilbert
Bedell, Stephen Allen
Bertling, Gerhard Herman
Bigler, Christian Andrew
Bispham, William
Briggs, George Smith
Burger, Emil Rudolph
Butler, George Eugene, P. M.
Caldwell, Burr Lafler
Chapman, Westley Edward
Cheney, Raymond Stewart
Clark, Ray R.
Claypool, William Morgan
Cooey, Malacbai Harry
Crayne, Daniel Edward
Crew, Abner Lafayette
Crothers, John Richard
Cubbage, Wilford
Curtin, Fred 'k A.
Cutts, •Arthur Percy
Demerest, Harry J.

Dillehunt, Wilber H.
Ellsworth, Ames D.
l!'erguson, Neil Edward
Fluhr, Charles George
Fowler, Robert A.
Freeman, Herman
Freeman, William Francis
Fish, Eli Willis
Foster, Wm. Lewis
Fuller, Fred
Godshall, Lincoln D;
Hedrick, R. A.
Helbush, Abner W.
Hope, Harry F.
Huber, l!erman Louis
Hull, Wm. Harold
lchl, Benj. Irving
Jones, Harry Albert
. r · Jurgens, Wm.
Kelley, Fred M., P. M.
Kendall, Charles Forrest
Kirk, J,on Ernest
Krallman, Frank Bryce
Mathewson, Walter Earl
Mathison, Paul. Otto E.
McElmell, James A.
Miller, Charles William, Jr.
Miller, William Lewie
Mills, William Henry

HOSTER
Monaghan, Charles Burns
Monaghan, Francis, P. M.
Moore, Charles Edward
Morden, Thomas
Morgan, James Clark
Murphy, Daniel
Newhall, Henry Martin
Nolton, Lester Leonard
Null, Edward Jacob
Ny Gren, Henry Harry
Patten, Wallace J.
Paulson, Jonathan O.
Pellat, Robert Wesley
Perkins, Geo. Irvine
Phillips, Charles Walter
Pine, Bertram Reuben
Poole, Silver Arthur
Riley, Albert Bentley
Root, Leroy Vincent, P. M.
Runyon, Fred
Sanders, Chas. Higby
Santhu, George
Saunders, George W,
Schale, Samuel Clarence
Schiller, Frank Christ
Christie, James A.
Greer, Harry M.

541

Shelton, Wm. A.
Shepard, Charles Angel, P. M.
Siele, Carl
Smith, Oliver E.
Smith, William Alpheus
Springer, James Munsen
Stearns, Albert Henry, P. M.
Steffey, Orange De Wolf
Stone, Cecil
Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt
Thompson, Horace N.
Topp, William Wallace
Tuttle, Edward Marshall
Vechaw, Chris
Vick, William Robert
Wadleigh, Robert P.
Warren, James L.
Warren, Larry
Weiss, W. A.
White, Charles B.
White, James Thornwell
Wild, Arthur Grant
Winton, Grover Cleveland
Yeager, Chas. J.

WITHDRAWN:
Hume, Joseph
Teague, Clarence

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gilbert, Isaac S.
Kennedy, Albert A.
Hansen, Carl Marinus
Platner, William Albert
Phillips, Edwin Roscoe

-107

542

ROSTER

ROSTER

LONG BEACH LODGE, No. 327.
Long Beach, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Harvey Ebenezer Shaw, Master,
Jesse Edward Michener, Chaplain,
331 West Fourth Street.
William Ray Shaw, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph William Gastrich, Sen. Ward., George Herbert Galbraith, Jun. Deac.,
John Coombs Farnham, Jun. Ward., Charles Arthur Mayhugh, SteWrJrd,
Richard Loynes, Treasurer,
Eugene Irving Fisher, Steward,
Harry Beverley Macdonald, Secy., Rufus Merrill Davis, Tyler.
P. 0., Long Beach, Cal.
Abbott, Arthur Marion
A<lams, Lloyd Garfield
Allen, Charles Alfred
Anderson, James William
Austin, Albert Bennett
Austin, Chas. Robert
Austin, William Horace
Bailey, Edward Percy
Bailey, Henry Clay
Baldwin, Walter George
Barndollar, Harry, P. M.
Barton, William Thomas
Bassett, Henry Willard
Beard, George
Becanon, Herchel Francis
Benson, Claud Miller
Benson, George Samuel
Benson, John Paul
Berry, Percy Scott
Birkle, William
Bisby, Robert Lee
Bissell, Shelton
Bonar, Charles Abel
Boone, Harvey Elsworth
Bowers, James Ervin
Bowers, Wesley Clay
Bowman, Ivory Lowe
Brandenburg, Frank
Brayton, William Lorentus

MEMBERS:
Brewer, Alvin Lee
Brown, Edwin Severance
Brown, Harry Gardner
Buckwalter, Charles E.
Butler, Stephen
Callahan, Henry Seymour
Campbell, Francis
Campbell, Marcus Herbert
Campbell, William Leslle
Cario, Albert
Carpenter, Louis K.
Carse, Elmer George
Carson, Lillard Hanson
Carver, Horace Stuart
Cherovsky, Anton
Chivers, John Stanley
Clayton, Albert Benjamin
Clem, David
Cleveland, Edgar H.
Clewett, Chester C.
Cole, Orra Wilson
Cole, Wilson N.
Connett, Albert Bradwell
Cooper, Dale Goodwin
Counts, John Ellis
Craig, Frank Sigel
Creeth, Ernest Ray
Cullen, John Thomas, P. M.
Culver, Harrison Wilder

Damron, Frank Bonham
Da\'enport, Alfred La Rue
De Meulle, JoReph
Dewey, Edwin Preston, P. M.
Dodsworth, Robert Metcalf
Donnell, .Theophilus Crosby
Dougan, Andrew
Douglas, Bruce Edwin
Douglas, Cyrus Edwin
Dower, William
Driskill, Jesse
Dudley, Edward Reynolds
Earl, David Gardner
Edmunds, Robert W.
Eno, Rufus A.
.E wen, Andrew James
Ewing, frouis Franklin
Fager, Wi!lia1n Clarence
Farnham, John Coombs
Farrington, Geo. Ward .
Feers, John Henry
Fellows, Ernest Frank
Fetterman, Isaac L<:!onard
Finlayson, John
Fisher, Francis Trumble
Flint, George Clift'ord, P. M.
Fritz, Frederick B.
Galbraith, Geo. Herbert
Galer, William
Gast.rich, Joseph William
Gilbert, Christopher C.
Glassford, John William
Goodhue, Arthur Martin
Goodwin, Byron Frank
Graham, James Duncan, P. M.
Green, Frank Abraham
Green• Horace William
Grube, Aaron Christian
Gutzler, Alfred John
Hammer, Samuel Crawford
Haney, Napoleon Bonaparte
Hargis, Charles Jones, P. M.
Harley, Robert Pollok
Harris, Adam Singleton
Harrison, Henry

543

Harthorn, Dell Henry
Harvey, Edwin Ruthven
Hatch, Ira Selden
Hatch, Philander Ellsworth
Heartwell, James Benjamin
Henry, Joseph Baxter
Hess, Logan
Higgins, Lee
Hill, James Andrew Paton
· Hincks, Harvey Wellman
Hirsch, George Fred
Holladay, Alvin Cosmo
Horn, Harvey
Horne, Walter James
Horsch, Elias Henry
Huff, William F .
Jackson, Edward Hendryx
Johnson, Leonidas Frederick, P. M.
Jones, George Gray
Jones, Edward Palmer
Julian, William Bailey
Keightley, Mark Wm.
Knight, Frederick Alonzo
Kimball, Rollin Freeman
Kring, Ulysses Grant
Langnickel, Joseph Magnus
Leaming, George Ambrose
Long, George Washington
Long, Stephen Gano
Looff, Arthur
Lopp, William Rader
Losee, Judson B.
Loynes, Richard, P. M.
Lyster, William Grafton
Macdonald, Harry Beverly
MacKinnon, John William
Marsh11-ll, Harry Bateham
Martin, George
Martin, William Simon
Masters, Robert Emmet
May, Joseph Jacob
Mayhugh, Spencer Arthur
McClung, Septimus Cabiness
Mccutchan, Henry Chester
Mccutchan, Hugh Henry

544

McQuigg, Frank Robertson
Mears, Charles Franklin
Meldrim, John Harold.
Michener, Jesse Edward
Miller, ,Tame~ Alden
Mohr1mstecher, George Adolf
Molique, Frank Joseph
Moore, Eugene B.
Moore, Harry Dawson
Morlock, Hngo
Morris, John Miles
Munholland, John Guthrie
Munholland, John Henry
Murphy, Michael Bennett
Neece, George Washington
Neel, Melvin
Nelson, Albert
Nelson, Swanti Louis
Nestle, Wm. Pollehm
Newkirk, Francis Marion
Norton, Elbert Elsworth
Oakford, Richard Scholes
Pardee, Frank Marian
Pardee, Lawrence Ray
Parks, Aubrey
Pascoe, William Frederick
Peacock, Rolland Robert
Pearce, Robert Whaley
Pease, Charles
Perce, Lewis Ansen
Perley, Henry Parker
Pierson, George H.
Porteous, Arthur Leopold
Porterfield, Walter Lowrie
Powers, James Dickson
Probst, John L.
Puett, Cole Cleeman
Pnshee, Frederic Almon
Ratliff, Samuel Gull"
Rattray, Peter
Rattray, Robert Allen
Ross, Arthur
Russell, Albert Chapman
Saunders, Franklin
Schiedknecht, George

ROSTER
Schlesmayer, Conrad William
Scott, Henry Adison
Shackleton, James
Shaw, Clark Harvey, P. M.
Shaw, Frank Edwin
Shaw, Hervey Ebenezer
Shaw, William Ray
Sherwood, Thomas Adie!
Shull, David Paul
Smith, Edwin W.
Smith, Harley Earl
Smith, Louis Hazelwood
Smith, Walter Clifford, P. M.
Snow, Albert B.
Springer, James Bowie
Stafford, Wm. Perry Lucien
Stannard, S. Grant
Steen, George Eddy
Stephens, Timothy Alva
Stevens, William Samuel
Story, Archie Edward
Stovell, Thomas
Strickland, Steelman Leeds
Stuart, Harry Carlos
Stubenbord, Jacob .Tohn
Stults, William Leon
Symonds, Henry
Taylor, Charles John Edward
Terry, Morris
Thomas, Francis Clar e
Tucker, William A.
Twombly, James C.
Twombly, James Richard
Underwood, Stephen Homer
Vanderburg, Robert Benton
Varney, William Madison
Pickers, Joseph Henry
Wade, Charles Howell
Witite, Earl Sherman
Waldron, Thomas Henry
Walker, Allen Cyrille
Walters, Guy Oakley
Watson, Matt Paul
Weinberg, Isaac
Weise, Charles Arthur

ROSTER
Welsh, William
White, Walter C.
Whitehead, Earle McL.
Whitaker, Forrest Marion
Whitney, Lincoln
Williams, Hugh H.
Wilson, George Hay

WilBon, Harry Milton
Wilson, William Harrison
Wiseman, William Edwin
Wiese, Guss
Wolford, John Adolf
Wright, Robert Allen
Ziegler, Harry B.

-252

WITHDRAWN :
Connett, Harvey Mahlon
Mitchell, Charles Edward
Coverdale, Samuel Waddell
Schulze, Theodore Gustave
Dudderar, Clarence Boyd
Thornburg, Charles Hix
Wallace, John Meredith
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Carlson, Charles John
Paul, Bert Hamilton
Hough, John J.
Robinson, Chester Ellswood
Jones, William Harriman
Thayer, Delosa P.
Wood, James Watson

McClintock, George Henry
McCutchen, Frank

DIED:
Pingree, Franklin Pierce
Potter, Pleasant G.

REDONDO LODGE, No. 328.
Redondo, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Ernest Clark Heath, Master,
Denton John Pitts, Chaplain,
Redondo Beach, Cal.
John Keppel, Senior Deacon,
Louis Hartman Heath, S c11. Warden, J ohn Abraham Seargeant, Ju n. Deac.,
Calvin Sawyer Coleman, Jun. Ward., Roy W. Culver, Marshal,
Peter Brown, Treasurer,
Samuel Goodwin Lindsley, Steward,
Augustus M. Harter, Secretary,
Ferdinand F. M. Hoffmann, Steward,
Redondo Beach, Cal.
Martin Van Buren Fisher, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abell, James Nelson
Bates, Harry Wood
Anderson, George Holmes, P. M.
Bluet.t , James
Anderson, William Austin, P. M.
Brooks, Alton Matthew
Barbee, Wm. Mathew
Brown, Peter
Barnes, Frederick Albert
Burt, Walter B.
35

546

ROSTER

ROS'fr~H

Ca1laway, Fred
Carre, Charles Kehoe
Cate, George
Chrisman, James M.
Cleghorn, William Jackson, P. M.
Coleman, Calvin Sawyer
Coleman, Walter Joel
Coleman, Howard Cleveland
Cox, Henry Ernest
Culp, Clare
Culver, Roy W.
Davis, Albert G.
Dry, Wilson Joseph
Dyer, Leslie La Monde
Eneix, David Sylvester
Feder, Henry Charles
Fisher, Martin Van Buren
Flint, Ariel Stanley
Flint, John William, P . M.
Funk, George Spalatin
Furlong, Barre Augustus, P. M.
Galentine, Charles Corrington
George, James Harvey
Gillespie, Joseph C., P. M.
Grassel, Charles William, P. M.
Griffin, Cecil Leland
Hansen, Alff Scharff
Harter, Augustus Medores, P . M.
Hatton, Frank
Heath, Ernest Clark
Heath, Louis Hartman
Heath, Roy Watson
Hinman, Orrin Clark
Hoffmann, Ferranan Fred M.
Hontz, Levi Burton
Howard, Emory Lamilton
Hull, Frederick Homer
Keppel, John
Klein, Alfred Henry
Kuentz, Isadore Charles
Leatherman, Geo.
Leatherman, Eugene
Leftwich, Jerry Tiffin
Leuzinger, Adolph
Lichty, Bert Christian

Lindsay, Gaun Jackson
Lindsley, Samuel Goodwin
Longacre, J 011eph Ransom
Maddex, William Thomas
Mangold, Charles Clarence
Martin, Joseph Harvey
McMillan, Edwin Harbaugh
McNally, Henry Jacob
Meacham, Harry Douglas
Means, Charles Vernon
More, Melvin John
Moyon, Alphonse ·
Paine, John William
Paine, WiJliam Lee
Parker, David Jonathan·
Parker, Perl Scott
Perry, Frank Lorin
Pitts, Denton John, P. M.
Potter, Joseph Benjamin
Protsch, Alex. Frederick
Ptomey, Wm. Henry Isaac
Raby, Henry George
Rice, Calvin
Rice, Charles Albert
Russell, John Tecumseh
Schaur, Herbert Martin
Schlegel, John
Scott, Raymond Chester
Seargeant, John Abraham
Seargeant, John Edward, P. M.
Shaw, Edwin
Shultz, James
Smith, George Vinson
Smith, Richard Dallum, P. M.
Smith, William
Spaulding, Elbert Augustus
Sprinkle, Wm. Foote, P. M.
Stark, James Guy, P. M.
Stark, John Wright
Steel, Arthur Bridge, P. M.
Stoehr, William Samuel
Taylor, Hurley Merrill
Twain, Joseph
Upton, William Henry
Venable, Charles Earle

Ve:!lable, Joseph William, Jr.
Venable, Pierce Samuel, P. M.
Venable, Thomas Eldriche
Von Rockabrandt, Louie
Weaver, John Lenard
Weaver, Wallace Herman

Wells, Lucian Fayette
Whiteside, Earl Bingley
Whiteside, Thomas Bingley
Whiteside, Ross Saxman
Whomes, Arthur
Woolley, William Willard

WITHDRAWN:
Searing, J ease Albert
SUSPJ!JNDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Riley, George Andrew

VALLEE de FRANCE LODGE ' N o. 329.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Me et'mgs, fi rs t Wednesday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
Hector Alliot, Master
910 Catalina Street '
Marcelin Eyraud, Chaplain,
James F. Martinoni Senior WardenL
Le~~ ESyraud, Senior Deacon,
E ·1 C .
'
' o .... s entous Jr Ma h 1
J m1 eF
Junior Warden, Alfred Ohevall,ey Ste rsd a,
ean C. Mirassou Casteig, Treasurer, Pierre Loustalot' Ste=d
E
. V
C '
'
L eon urtet, Secretary
938 West Sixty-third' Street,
ugene an albergh, Tyler.

hr~stopher,

Adoue, Jean
Alliot, Hector
Antognelli, Darius
Appfel, Alex. Louis
Barthe, Jean Bertrand, P. M.
Bernard, Etienne
Beyeye, Pierre
Boggio, Giovani
Boggis, Dominico
Bouelle, Frank Auguste, P. M.
Bresson, Francois
Caldares, Frank
Caldares, Joseph
Campanella., Victor
Casenore, Jean Baptist

MEMBERS:
Castera, Jean
Cazeaux, Arnaud, P. M,
Charbonnier, Frederic
Chevalley, Alfred
Chiarodit, George
Christophe, Emile
Christopher, Louis Joseph
Conradi, Simon
Curtet, Leon, P. M.
Demateis, Carlo
Deutsch, Charles, p, M.
Doree, Jean
Dortignac, Jean
Dupuy, Joseph Piere M.
Escallier, Leon

547

-112

ROSTER

. ROSTER

5-18

Eyraud, Albert
Eyraud, Alphonse
Ey,raud, Joseph
Eyraud, Leon
Eyraud, Marcelin, P. M.
Eyraud, Marin Antoine
Fava, Arthur
Fazzi, Oreste
Fleur, Ernest
Gabard, Louis
Garau, Aurelio
Gai, Giovani
Gianetti, Guisseppe
Godissart, Joseph
Gravet, Adolph Louis
Grob, Walter
Hauret, Thomas Louis
Hiriart, Pascal
Humbert, Etienne Edward
Issoglio, Louis Paul
Itcaina, Gracian
Jaureguy, Pierre
Labourdette, Pierre
Lacay, Germain Paul
r,acour, Frederic
Lacour, George Solier
Laporte, Henri
Longo, Igniacio
Louazon, Joseph
Loustalot, Pierre
Machris, Alfred Paul
Machris, George Louis
Malais, Clovis

Martinoni, James F.
Mirassou-Castig, Jean F.
Mazet, Casimir
Mazet, Jean
Molle, Antoine Baptist
Nesa, Bernard
Pagliano, Guisseppe
Pala, Andrea Dominico
Pedy, Louis
Pioda, Andrea
Piuma, Guisseppe
Prescott, Frank C., P. M.
Preschacg, Prosper
Puissegur, Francois Raymond
Riccardo, Constantine
Salthu, Dominique
· Salthu, Jean
Salthu, Martin
Save, Antony
Sentous, Camille
Sentous, Louis, Jr., P. M.
Sormano, Guisseppe
Sormano, Minotti
Tisnerat, Edouard
Torre, Stefani
Turon, Leon
Van Calbergh, Eugene
Vial, Scipion
Vincent, Clement
Viole, Jules, P. M.
Walder, Charles
Zucca, Frank C.

Sontous, Jules

KILAUEA LODGE, No. 330.
Hilo, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings, Saturday nearest the Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Herman William Ludloff, Master, John Napier, Chapla4n,
August W. L. Duvel, Senior Deacon,
Hilo, H. T.
William Weight, Senior Warden,
Robert Forbes, Junior Deacon,
Robert Thomas Forrest, !. Warden, Robert M. Lindsay, Marshal,
Adam Lindsay, Treasurer,
Heinrich Hagens, Steward,
Frank Arthur Metcalf, Secretary,
William J. Bell, Steward,
Box 358, Hilo, H. T.
John Henry Maybe, Tyler.

-95

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Cajal, Antonio Domingo
DIED:
Taix, Joachin

.549

MEMBERS:
Ainslie, Archibald
Cosgrove, James
Alden, Chas. Wilber
Craeli us, John Frederick
Anderson, Frank Moir
Craik, John
Anderson, Henry Christian
Curtis, Albert Guild
Andrews, Wentworth Kinney
Curtsf John Paul
4-rnswaldt, Anton Walter von
Dawson, George
Deyo, Eugene Nelson
Aungst, Luther Stine
Austin, Ernest Harper
Dickson, Charles
Baker, John Thomas
Elliot, Harold Beatty
Engalls, Hans · '
Balding, Ralph Evans
Balding, William Thomas, P. M.
Fairer, Charles Henry, P . M.
Baldwin, Erdman Dwight
Fincke, Heinrich Wilhelm
Beckley, Henry Pitman
Fitzgerald, John
Blake, George
Forbes, David McHattie
Forbes, Robert
Bole, John Hodge
Bowman, Donald Scott
Forrest, Robert Thomas
Brien, William
Fraser, Alexander
Breyman, Fred
Fraser, John
Bryant, Howard Rattenbury
Gere, Giles Henry
Burnett, William Mowatt
· Gerlach, Henry August
Butchart, David Greig
Gibb, Arthur Charles
Cameron, James Murray
Goodale, William Whitmore
Campbell, Wm. . Henry Colen, P. M. Goodhue, Edward Solen
Gosling, Robert
Campsie, James
Grace, Jobn Johnston
Carwithen, Rodger
Green, Charles David
Casten1dyk, Christian H;
Guarrl, Thomas
Cole, Wm. Fawcett
Haenisch, Fredrich August
Coi>.tadt, Frederick Richard
Hagens, Heinrich
Conradt, ·Julius Wilhelm

550
Hapai, George Washington A.
Hayselden, Walter H.
Heintze, Carl Feodor
Henderson, Alfred Rannie
Henderson, James
Holmes, Everett Nathan
Horner, Albert
Howland, John Hastings
Humburg, Johann August
Hutchison, Robert Allan
Irwin, Archer
Jamieson, George
Johnson, Peter
Kauhane, Samuel
Kelsey, Evelyn Henry
Kennedy, Charles Reid
Kennedy, John Downie
Kennedy, Ronald Clark
Keolanui, William Manaole
King, Charles Edward
LeBlond, Chas. McGinley
Linder, Axel Ferdinand
Lindsay, Adam
Lindsay, Andrew Bonnar
Lougher, Robert
Ludlo1l', Hermann William
Lycurgus, Demosthenes N.
Lyman, Levi Chamberlain
Maage, Frederick William
Maby, John Henry
Mackenzie, Daibhidh
Mackenzie, Geo.
Macpherson, John
Maguire, John Avery
Maxfield, DaniP.l Edwin
McD()ugall, William Paul
McKay, William, P. M.
McLean, Walter Scott
McNicoll, James
McQuaid, William Matthew
Medcalf, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Meinecke, Joseph
Moir, J~hn Troup, P. M.
Morehead, Harry Hamilton

R08TER

ROSTER

Moses, Edward Harold
Moses Ernest
Moses, Robert Todd
Muir, James Marriner
Napier, John
Napier, John, Jr.
Nichols, Ezra Francis
Ove:rend, Henry Sheridan
Paetow, Frank Christian
Page, Atwood Giffen
Patten, Harold Vaughan
Pritchard, Joseph
Rickard, John Smith
Ridgway, Thomas Caldwell, P. M.
Ross, John Munro
Ruddle, Albert
Sadler, Robert Charles
Schoen, Irving Baruch
Schoening, Walter Henry
Sexton, Leo Lloyd
Souza, Florentin
Spencer, Samuel Mahuka
Stobie, Charles Alexander
Stow, Charles Lethbridge
Valentine, Alex.
Vannatta, William
Vannatta, Wm. Cole
Vicars, George Henry, P. M.
Wagener, Frederich Wilhelm
Wall, Allen Serounry
Weatherbee, Charles
Webster, James
Weight, Edward Joseph
Weight, William
White, Thomas Corbert
Willfong, Nathan Crosby
Williams, George Herbert, P. M.
Wilson, George
Wise, William Sea.burn
Woods, James Frank
Woods, Palmer Parker
Woods, Samuel Parker
Wright, Charles Edward

-145

551

WITHDRAWN:
Peck, Samuel Stodole

Richmond, Frank Adams
Shaw, Henry Leonard

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Arnswaldt, Ernest August von
Fitzsimmons, Vineent M . Raplee
Ray, Willis Alfred
Brumaghim, Everett

DIED:
Peck, Philip

PACIFIC GROVE LODGE, No. 331.
Pacific Grove, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Richa:d Chivers, Master,
Francis Edward Lawrey, Chaplain,
Pacific Grove, Cal.
Daniel Freeman Sen Deacon
Edwin Simpson Johnston, Sen. W., Charles Egbert Robe;ts Jun Deac
William Thomas Moore, Jun. Ward., Charles Edward Tuck Mar;hal .,
Rohert Miller Fitzsimmons, Treas., Chester Belton Toombs Stewa;d
Charl:s Kirkham Tuttle, Secretary, Frank Gerrard Robley, Steward, '
Pacific Grove, Cal.
Hind Harper, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brink, William Otho
Brown, Charles Fredrick
Brua, Elmer George
Buck, Frank La Vern
Buffum, Eldridge Clayton
Burwell, Leslie Monthrop
Campbell, Samuel H.
Chivers, Harry
Chivers, Richaru
Colvin, Robert
Cook, William Charles, P. M.
Dangerfield, Charles Lucius
Eardley, Blldson Alma
Ehmann, George Herbert
Ellis, Frank Wilson
Fifield, Daniel Black, P. M.
Fitzsimmons, Abram Miller

Fitzsimmon11, George Lyman
Fitzsimmo1U1, Robert Miller, P. M.
Freeman, Daniel
Gardner, Joseph Marshall
Harper, Hind, Jr.
Hart, Charles Edwin
Rine, Frank Harrison
Howard, Fred Dndl11y
Ingham, George Francis
Ingram, George Alexander
James, Richard L.
,Johnston, Charles Kingsley, P. M.
Johnston, Edwin Simpson
Lawrey, Francis Edward
Leary, Daniel Joseph, P. M.
Lee, Abraham
·
Lewis, Edward Branham

ROSTER

552

Stalter, John
Steiner, Adam Jackson
Sutton, William, P. M.
Swanson, Oscar
Tenney, Charles Whitney
Tombs, Chester Belton
Trimmer, Oliver Smith, P. M.
Tuck, Charles Edward
Tuttle, Charles Kirkham, P. M.
Tuttle, Floyd Lorrell
Van Horn, Charles Wesley
Wyeth, Frank Joe
Yates, James Jackson
-60

Melin, Kristian
Moore, William Thomas
Newlon, William Wirt
Pa trick, Harry Lee
Paul, John Knox
Pfafflin, Wm. Henry
Peterson, John August
Proctor, John, P. M.
Reynolds, Fred Irvine
Rfohardson, Fred Orland
Robley, Frank Gerrard
Roberts, Charles Egbert
Scarlett, Samuel Van

Fifield, William George

WITHDRAWN:
Jamison, William Thomas
Oliver, Joseph Kurtz

SAN PEDRO LODGE, No. 332.
San Pedro, Los Angeles County,
Statetl Meetings, second Thur~day in each month.
OFFICERS:

John J ames Goldsworthy, Master, William Gordan Mills, Chaplain,
Harry Weaver, S enior Deacon,
San Pedro, Cal.
Edmund Percival Ingmire, Sen. W., Robert Irvin, Junior Deacon,
Edwin Butler Moores, Jun. Warden, George T. Van Voorhies, Marshal,
Ernest Albert Miller, Treasurer,
J ohn Spencee Pitman, Steward,
William Davis, Secretary,
William Archibald Duncan, Steward,
William .Steven Dapin, Tyler.
San Pedro, Cal.
Aarup, Emil
Abbott, Edwin Stewart
Abel, William H.
Ahlin, Karl Albert
Allan, Howard Clinton
Allison, Frederick William
Anderson, Johan Alfred
Asmussen, Marcus Frederick
Augustine, Leo Stanley
Back, Mathias ChristenBon
Baker, Charles Joseph

MEMBERS:
Ealy, Henry
Bell, Gilbert Clyde
Benjamin, Thomas Clay
Benjamin, William Brooks
Birkholm, Frederick Sophus
Blausey, Franklin Edward, P. M.
Bleiseth, Max
Bloecher, Wni. Fred 'k
Brand, Robert Lee
Brose, John Ambrose Octovius
Buckley, John Wilkinson

ROSTER
Christensen, Wm. Wester
Clair, John Edward
Clough, George Fletcher
Connelly, Michael James
Dakin, William Stevens
Davenport, Walter Lewis
Davis, David P.
Davie, William
Doolittle, Edward Whitney
Duncan, William Archibald
Duncan, William Burnett, P. M.
Eggleston, Fred Eugene
Eliason, John August
Fawcett, Thomas H.
Fobes, Royal A.
Foldat, .John
Frazer, Henry Jefferson
Gerry, William Arthur
Gillespie, Joe White
Graves, Stephen Douglas
Gray, John, P. M.
Greely, William Charles
Gridley, Frederick Harland
Griffin, John
Greenfield, Wm. Edwin
Goldsworthy, John James
Goodwin, Andrew Peter
Gwaltney, John Sandford
Gwaltney, Sylvester
Raisch, John Jacob
Hamilton, Joseph Smithe
Hamilton, Kenneth Chapin
Hansen, Carl A. S. R.
Hansen, Henry Benjamin
Hanson, Christian
Hart, Edwin George
Heckman, Fred C.
Hill, William Cornelius, P. M.
Hogue, Joseph Morse
Horn, Marion Van
Hyatt, William Harvey
Ingmire, Edmund Percival
Johnson, Charles W.
Johnson, Gust Ferdinand
.Johnson, John Henry

Kallenburg, Ernest Walfred
Kane, Alexander
Karr, Frank
Kiff, Frank Oscar
Kittleson, Jacob
Kling, George Stephen; P. M.
Klose, Chas. Geo.
Knight, Charles Chester
Krohn, Peter George
Lane, Henry Stanton, 'P.. M.
Langkilde, Sage Andreas
Larsen, Peter Adolph
,Lawyer, Ila Calvin, P. M.
Lemon, Ole James
Levy, Louis
Levy, Philip
Lippman, Bernard Bear
Lippman, Lazard Harold
Logan, John Edward
Long, Harper Mervin
Lurman, George Henry Frederick
Martin, John Isaac
Mather, Rolf Harold A.
Miller, Charles Laird
Miller, Ernest Albert, P . M.
Miller, Joseph Charles
Mills, William Gordan
Mitchell, Ray
Moores, Edwin Butler
Mountain, John Robert
Myers, Bernard
Nielsen, Ole
Nielsen, Paul
Orsland, Oscar Christensen
Pearce, Ira
Pearce, Peter
Peterson, Carl
Peterson, Lawrence
Phillips, John Andrew
Pitman, John Spence
Pratt, Le Roy Elijah
Quinn, Richard
Riggs, Murray Hez
Robinson, Charles Guy
Rund, Mauritz Olsen

553

ROSTER

ROSTER

554

Svenson, August Wilhelm
Svenson, Charles John
Thornton, Daniel Cornelius, P. M.
Tornstrom, Chas. Arthur
Tucoo, Berna:rd
Tutt, Edward Stanley
Walton, Joseph Wilson
Weaver, Harry George
Weddle, Herbert Timms
Weddle, Joaeph Milton
Wehrman, John
Weir, James
Westerdale, Gus
Wickersham, William Howard
Wilson, Robert
Young, Edward Everei:t, P. M.
Zaddart, David Ernest J.
-146

Sargent, Charles Albert
Schell, Lafayette Cornelius
Scholler, Edwin T.
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schwartz, Moritz
Scott, Raymond Addie
Seileman, Charles Thedor
Sjogren, Albin
Smitherman, John Thomas
Spadeholtz, Lester Bate11
Spencer, William
Stangeland, Svend
Stetson, Newell Bailey
Stewart, George
Stremmel, Harry
Strom, Fred Nestor
Supelveda, Albert George

WITHDRAWN:
Curtis, Charles C.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Colman, Edwin Waterman

Carpenter, William Algo

DIED:
Larsen, Niels Almy
Nielson, Carl Peter

ALTA LODGE, No. 333·
Bridgeport, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

(No Certificate.

•

Barnes, Baxter Denis
Batjer, Frank Wilhelm Robert
Bernard, Herbert Jamee
Brandon, Edward Leroy, P. M.

See Appenclix.)

MEMBERS:
Cargill, William J a.mes
Cook, Harry Sawyers
Creaser, John Alexander
Day, Charles Eugene .

Delury, George
Elliott, Leslie Edwin, P . M.
Hunewill, Stanley Hyde
Kinney, Elmer Augustas
Kinney, George Leonaru
. Kirkwood, Charles Melvill
Kirkwood, Emery Edgar, P. M.
Kirkwood, George Augustus
Laws, Arthur Herbert
Murphey, Edward Alanson,
Murphey, John Douglass, P. M.
Montrose, Harold Albert
McEwen, Duncan
Patterson, Hiram Barnes, P. M.

.555

Patterson, Rezin Grant
Rickey, Charles William
Sawyer, John Merrick
Sawyer, Robert William
Schreck, Herman Leonard, P. M.
Scott, Alexander Franklin
Simmons, Benjamin Lewis
Smith, William Henry ·
Stroud, James
Taylor, Charles Henry
Towle, Joshua West, P. M.
Travis, Abner Andrew
Waltze, Alton Denwood
Wedertz, Charles Edward
-36

COVINA LODGE, No. 334.
Covina, Los Angeles County.
Stateu Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George B. Scofield, Master,
Alfred Fletcher, Chaplain,
Covina, Cal.
Malcolm J ohn McCarthy, Sen. Deac.,
Wells Clayton Merwin, Sen. Ward., Charles David Griffiths, Jun. Deac.,
Seymour Locke Watts, l1tn. Ward., Charles Osborne Buller, Marshal,
Thomas Francis Griswold, Treasurer, Jacob Levi Haley, Steward,
Bryce Morrow Given, Secretary,
Fred'k Pristley Wilson, Steward,
Covina, Cal.
J oseph Edward Turner, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, James Simpson
Chapman, Frank M.
Anderson, Alex. Wilson
Chew, Randall Thornton, Jr.
Atwood, George Nichols, P. M.
Clark, Henry Decker
Bennison, John Thomas
Clark, William
Blanehard, Charles Edward
Collins, Westwood Hugh
Bowman, Robert Marion
Colt, Arel Elias
Bristow, Charles E.
Coltrin, Amador Francis, P. M.
Coltrin, Marion Chester
Browr Joseph Fletcher, P. M.
Brow, William Charles Henry
Coltrin, Raymond Earl
Brunjes, Jacob, P. M.
Coman, Wm. Marion
Brunjes, John Charles H.
Coolman, John Henry
Bryan, Albert Reuben
Cooper, Ellsworth Arthur
Buller, Charles Osborne
Dudderar, Franklin Edgar, P. M.
Cass, Hugh
Dudderar, George Otis, P . M.

.j56

ROSTER

nudderar, George Washington, P. M. Matthews, James Lewis, P. M.
McCarthy, Malcolm John
Eason, Reeves
Menefee, Charles
Elliott, Chester Merton
Menefee, Clarence Wheeler
Elliott, James Rufus
Merwin, Ray Stanton
English, Van Ormun
Merwin, Wells Clayton
Evans, John Sidney
Moffatt, James Douglas
Fairly, Guy Ernest
Murphy, Lemuel A.
Feist, Andrew. Wm.
Nash, Chas. M.
Fields, Joseph Durand
Nash, Percy Louis, P. M.
Fletcher, Alfred
Nash, William Wallace
Frazier, Frank Orlando
Nigg, Aloia, P. M.
Gerhart, George W.
Nilson, Gustave
Given, Bryce Morrow
Norton, Hugh Russell
Graham, George
Ohaver, John Franklin
Graham, Levi D.
Olmstead, Zenas Perry
Greenlaw, Ernest Ellwood
Pelton, Frank Edward
Greenlaw, Isaac
Peters, Joseph Arnold
Griffiths, Chas. David
Plant, Francis Benjamin
Griffiths, Charles Edwin
Pollard, Richard Caswell
Griswold, Eugene I.
Poole, Alfred Allerton
Griswold, Thomas Francis, P. M.
Reed, Wallace Allison
Griswold, William Merton
Reed, .Tames Denny, P. M.
Haley, Jacob Louis
Reynolds, George Jerome
Harris, Howard
Rice, Elmer Vehsalage
Hart, Geo. K.
Richer, Charles Anthony
Hassheider, Chas. Fred
Rooks, Andrew .T., Sr.
Hazzard, George Alfred
Rush, Bert
Henry, Wm. Edgar
Sanborn, John Abraham
Henry, Wilmot Clark
Sawyer, Wm. S.
Hoogendyk, William
Schumacher, Karl
Huft', David Eyman
Scofield, George B.
Hulce, Clarence Lester
Shorey, Harry George
Hurst, Albert E.
Shouse, Geo. Owen
Hurst, Chas. J.
Simpson, Ralph Oliver
Jackson, Paul
Sprotte, Ernest August
Johnson, Charles F.
Stanton, .John Minter
Johnson, Frank Charles
Sutherland, Russell Forbes
Kerckhoft', Anton Phillip
Thorpe, Benjamin French
Kingery, Robert Lee
Tredway, Charles Edwin
Kline, John William
Tripp, Henry Spencer
Lavayea, William Henry
Turner, Joseph E. ·
Leebrick, Karl C.
Van Auken, Erastus W.
Leonhardt, Max
Vincent, Bert
Linberg, Charles
Walker, Robert S., .Tr.
Longheed, Herbert Edgar

ROSTER
Wanty, Charles Camille
Warren, William Mark
Watson, Hen.ry
Watts, Seymour L.
Webb, Benjamin S.
Wedgwood, Charles Herbert
Welch, Robert Allen

557

Wellington, Arthur Lee
Wells, Hugh Neal
Wilson, Fred 'k Priestly
Wilson, John Newton
Wright, Frank Harvey
Wyeth, Wm. Everett
-131 .

WITHDRAWN:
Lawrence, Golden Israel Riley
Neil, Harry Nash

WEST GATE LODGE, No. 335.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
Masonic Temple.
OFFICERS:
Morris Arons, Master,
Simson Alphonso Barrett, Chaplain,
360 South Los Angeles Street, LosAlbert Henry La Casse, Sen. Deacon,
Angeles, Cal.
Milton Joseph Lesser, Jun. Deacon,
Alfred Theodore Kingsbaker, S. W., Glenn M. Weismeyer, Marshal
Dell Arthur Schweitzer, Jun. Ward., Arthur Edward Mansbach, St:ward, .
Emil Firth, Treasurer,
William Daniel Stewart, Steward,
August Wackerbarth, Secretary,
Edward H. Miller (Los Angeles No.
956 Court Circle, Los Angeles, Cal. 42), Tyler.
Abrahamson, Nils Severinus
Adams, Alfred Eben, P. M.
Adler, Melville Charles
Altman, Harry William
Alven, Richard William
Ancker, Albert
Archibald, Herbert Owen
Arons, Morris
Atkinson, Harry Ross
Backer, Henry Frank
Baer, Henry Simon
Baer, Oscar Isaac
Bagby, Edwin Hanson
Bailie, William Nassau
Bair, Herbert Stanley
Baker, Robert Samuel

MEMBERS:
Barham, Albert Dudley
Barham, Frank Forrest
Barman, Frederick Ferdinand
Barrett, Simeon Alphonso
Bartels, Bernard William
Bartholomew, Charles August
Baruch, Milton
Baruh, Joseph
Bastheim, Edmund
Bayless, Herman Gordon
Beekler, John G.
Behrend, Salm
Benjamin, Herman
Berge, Carl Theo. Emil
Berman, Wm.
Bernheim, Abraham

558
Bern1>tein, Arthur
Besselman, Charlie Fred
Besselman, Fred L.
Black, Allan W.
Black, George Nathan, P. M.
Black, Julius Richard
Blakely, William Thornton
Blumenthal, Harold Oron
Blumenthal, Stanley Myers
Bock, Charles
Boswell, Albert Baldy
Britt, Eugene Waddell
Brocksieper, Clarence Edward
Brown, Henry Stephen, P. M.
Brown, Max
Brownstein, Aleck
Brownstein, Daniel Jacob, P. M.
Buell, Samuel Washington
Burton, Sylvester E.
Carl, Irving L.
Cave, Daniel, P. M.
Chamberlain, Wm. Edwin, P. M.
Chandler, Logan Bertram
Chase, William Elmer ·
Cheshire, Charles Albert
Church, Samuel Barber
Cline, William
Cohen, Louis
Cohen, Susman
Cohn, Albert
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Isidor
Cohn, Isidor N.
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Morris
Cole, Louis Maurice
Craig, William 'l'alton
Cronshaw, John Henry
Darby, William T.
Davis, Harry Alexander
Dobbins, Irvin Waterman
Doull, Albert Prince
Drake, Albert Garfield
Dunkel, Otto
Edwards, Frank Elmer

ROSTER
Ehrlich, Morris
Eisner, Isidor
Evans, Charles Edward
Evans, David Meridith
Everhardy, Matthew William
Fallas, Fred La Pere
Feintuch, Abram
Firth, Emil
Fishburn, John Eugene
Finkenstein, Maurie Josephus
Florentin, Florentine
Francis, John Haywood
Frank; Herman Washillgton
Frankel, Adolph
Frankel, Cecil
Frankenstein, Abraham Frankens
Gainsley, George Christian
Gerecht, Emmanuel F.
Getz, John
Gibson, Robert Cary
Glafke, Charles
Glass, Herman Theobald
Godfrey, Arthur Molbone
Gold, Louis
Goldberg, Harry Samuel
Goldsmith, George
Goldsmith, Gerson
Goldsmith, Joseph
Goldwater, Abraham J.
Goldwater, Lemuel
Gottschalk, William M.
Grant, John Edward
Green, Robert
Greenewald, Aaron Ben
Haines, Charles Johnson
Hamburger, David Asher
Hamburger, Moses Asher
Harding, George Winans
Hardman, James Manford
Harper, Arthur Cyprian
Harris, Howard Jacob
Harris, Morris
Hartnack, Albert Oharl~s
Harwood, Benjamin
Hasenburg, Fredreick B.

ROSTER
Hauser, Edward Charles
Rauser, Herman Julius
Haynes, John Randolph
Hecht, Sigmund, P. M.
Heiman, Jacob
Hellman, Maurice Samuel
Henry, Edward George
Herrington, Ira
Hilf, Samuel
Higginbotham, Samuel H.
Hill, Thomas Lincoln
Hinzeman, Eilward Anthony
Hirsh, Milton Adolph
Hookstratten, Edward Gregory
Hud~on, Charles Henry
Hunsaker, William Jefferson
Hupp, George Shother
Hutchison, William McGuffie
Hyman, Morice
Jackson, Harold Frederick D.
Jac9bs, .Tay Berthold, P. M.
Jacobs, Paul
Jacoby, Abraham
Jacoby,. Juliu~
Jannard, Oscar
Jones, William Westbrook
Joyce, William Henry
Kahn, Frank G.
Kahn, John
Kalchheim, Elei&.s
Kauffman, Jules
Kaufman, Philip
Kazinsky, Joseph Sim
Keene, David Herman
Kellogg, Charles Giles
Kern, Charles
Kingsbaker, Alfred Theo.
Kingsbaker, Leonard Theodore
Kirkp'atrick, Campbell Rerry
Kirschner, Samuel
Kitchen, John Franklin
Klat8cher, Joseph
Klatscher, Wm.
Klein, Arthur Menyhart
Klein, Philip

Klein, Sam
Klingenstein, Isaac
Korn, Jake
Krafft, Justus, P. M.
Krassow, Carl Axel von
Kujawsky, Jacob
Kurtz, Carl
La Casse, Albert Henry
Lac.roix, William F. C. L.
Laietsky, Benjamin
Lamb, Hamilton Gordon
Lang, Augustus
La Niece, Edwin
r~a Strong, Frank
Laventhal, Isidor Edward
Lazard, Edmund Myer
Leavitt, Frederick Clinton
Lerner, Samuel Alex.
Lesser, Milton Joseph
Levi, Herman
Levin, Zernach
Levy, Alfred
Levy, Barnett Louis
Levy, Charles
Levy, Isaac Oury
Levy, Leo Louis
Levy, Louis
Levy, Samuel Garland
Levy, Samuel Marion
Lichtenberger, Herman Carl
Lissner, Meyer
Llewellyn, David Edgar
Llewellyn, John
Llewellyn, Reese
Loeb, Joseph Philip, P. M.
Loewenthal, Henry
Louis, Henry Washington, P. M.
Lubin, William
Lyon, Henry Herbert
Lyons, Harry
Maier, Bernhard
Maier, Leopold
Malinow, Nathan
Mallory, Llewellyn Aloord
Maimed, Abraham T.

559

560

ROSTER
ROSTER

Mansbach, Arthur Edward
Mansbach, Edward
Marks, Joshua Harry
Marks, Monroe Pierce
Markwalder, Louis
Marshutz, Siegfried G. .
Marx, David
Maxson, Herbert Elmer
Mayer, Leo.
McArthur, Peter Robb
McCord, Arthur William
McCourt, Robert Lee
McCoy, George Washington
McDivitt, Frank Paul ·
McKay, Walter Warner
McMillan, Robert Wilson
Mendelsohn, Edward
Mepham, Charles Henry
Merigold, Harry Patterson
Merigold, Robert .Lee
Mertes, George Adams
Meyberg, Manfred .
Meyberg, Moritz
Meyer, Edgar Ulman
Meyerstein, Jacob
Miller, Frank
Miller, Herbert Reilley
Miller, Isaac Max
Miller, Max Abraham
Mitchell, Arthur J.
Mitchell, Frederick William
Mitchell, Robert
Mole, Harry Porter
Morgan, Cosmo William Edward
Morris, Julius Samuel
Morrison, William Edward D.
Murphey, Joseph Lanes
Neisser, Otto
Newbauer, Sanford Robert
Newman, Harry Charles
Newman, Julian Sanford
Newmark, Marco Ross
Newmark, Maurice Harris
Newmark; Philip A.
Newmark, Samuel Mark

Nokes, Irwin Dana
Nordlinger, Louis B., P. M.
Norton, Aaron Friedman
Norton, Richard Henry
Oaks, Louis David
O'Neil, Owen Hugh
Parker, Joseph Herndon
Partridge, Harry
Paulsen, Paul Olmer
Peddie, Andrew
Pefiey, Arthur
Pettebone, Henry Welles
Phillips, Erwin
Plummer, Charles Hicks
Polaski, Arthur
Pollock, Frank Joseph
Powell, William Harris
Pozzo, Emile Anselmo
Pozzo, Louis Joseph
Prenzlauer, Albert
Purcupile, Charles Archibald
Purser, Sal Calhoun
Purwin, Leo Max
Raiss, Carl
Ramish, Adolph
Rangan, Joseph Alfrecl
Raphael, Meyer
Rappaport, Harry Henry
Reichenbach, Frank Benjamin
Reynolds, John Jacob
Reider, Michael
Richards, Ellsworth Francis, P. M.
Ritchie, Matthew R. Steele
Robertson, Orville Leroy
Robinson, Ed. Burnham
Rogers, Jacob Leopold
Rosenstein, Fritz
Roth, Eugene Henry
Ruben, Chas.
Rumage, Otto
Sain, Alfred Rants
Salkey, Henry
Salkey, Jacob Samuel
Salzman, Maurice
Salzman, Max

8argeant, Theo. Anthony
Schiff, Ludwig, P. M.
Schiff, Solomon
Schneider, Martin
Schoenfeld, Benj.
Schutte, Joha:in Gottfried
Schwartz, Charles Edward
Schweitzer, Arthur Dell
Scolary, Philip Anton
Seabrook, Jesse Rolando
Sheuerman, Bernhardt
Siegel, Frederick
Siegel, Myer
· Siegel, Ralph
Sieroty, Adolph
Silver, Herman, P. M.
Simms, Vinton Delos
Simon, Eli Harry
Skeel, William Spencer
Slack, Harry Simpson
Slotterbeck, Harry
Smith, Francis William
Smith, Joseph Lafayette
Smith, Thomas Sherman
Snodgrass, Henry Milton
Snyder, Abraham
Solomon, Jacob Carl
SolomonMn, Julius
Stanton, Philip Ackley
Stapp, Clyde Wesley
Stein, Samuel H.
Steinbeck, Ernest Frederick
Steinlein, Karl
Stephens, Frank Arch
Rtern, Gustave
Sternberg, Max Joseph
Stevens, Will Phoendo>r
Stewart, William Daniel
Strayer, Charles Walton

Bates, Will E.
36

Streicher, Michael
Stump, Charles Ayen
Summerfield, Gus Lewin
Summerfield, Isidor
Sweet, Otto
Swirt, John Ferguson
Switzer, Albert Offut
Taskey, Paul
Taylor, Waller
Thompson, Arthur Marsh
Thompson, Benj. Willey
Triest, Karl
Triolo, James Slorach
Trippet, Oscar A.
Tunison, Albert Lafayette
Turnbull, Mark
Turner, Chas. Flavel
Tyroler, Adolph
Yignolo, Albert
Yignolo, Lorenzo
Wacherbarth, August
Wacholder, Joel
Walter, Albert
Watson, James Henry
Weinberger, Isidor
Weismeyer, Clifford T.
W eismeyer, Glen Morton
W eyl, Emil Marx
White, William Addison
White, William James
Widomen, Alonzo M.
Willard, Eugene
Wittenberg, Ernest J.
Woollier, Henry Sigmund
Youngerman, Moses·
Zeehandelaar, Felix Josephus
. Zeisler, Adolph
Zinnamon, Joseph
Zuckerman, Maurice
WITHDRAWN:
Levi, Bernard

561

-380

562

ROSTER

DIED:
Harwood, Sprigg
Cotton, Henry Gilbert
Kaiser, Otto
Figg, Guy William
Laukota, John
Gibbs, Jefferson D. (E. A.)
White, Charles Henry

FRUITVALE LODGE, No. 336.
Fruitvale, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harold Dray Perry, Chaplain,
John Henry Helmstein, Master,
Henry Carl Schwinn, Sen. Deacon,
1213 Lincoln Avenue.
Roddy Compton Black, Jun. Deacon,
Jam es Everett Parish, Sen. Warden,
Samuel LeRoy Bishop, Marshal,
Harry Bercovicj1, Junior Warden,
William Henry Hackett, Treasurer, Harry 1'hornally, Steward,
Frederick Calvin Clark, Secretary, William Irvin Day, Stewa1·d,
Charles Bendell, Tyler.
3012 Central Avenue.
MEMBERS:
Bridge, William Bayley
Albers, William Richard
Bridgman, William Calib
Alexander, Dean Wm.
Briggs, Charles Linford
Amlin, Thomas Emory
Burman, John
Anderson, Frederick
Cameron, Kenneth
Barber, Alfred Arthur, P. M.
Carew, Corneliue, P. M.
Bartlett, William Herbert
Church, George ·Franklin
Beach, Melville Clinton
Churchman, William H.
Beaven, Alfred 8. A.
Clark, Alba Ezadore
Beckwith, Ward Maklelow
Clark, Frederick Calvin
Beeman, Reuben W.
Claudius, Peter
Bendell, Charles
Clough, George M.
Bender, John Valentine
Cole, Albert Samuel
Bennett, Alfred Edward
Colquhoun, James Crawford
Bercovich, David
Coolidge, George Harry
Bercovich, Harry
Covell, Marcus Victor
Bercovich, William
Crawford, Thomas Olin
Bishop, Samuel Le Roy
Crosby, Daniel
Black, Roddy Compton
Cutting, Edwin M.
Blake, Llewellyn Week
Dahuke, Frederick M.
Bolesworth, Britten
Davis, Edward William
Bowlsbey, Edward S.
Day, William Irvin
Boyle, Harry Louis James

ROSTER
Decker, Martin Arthur
Degelman, Nelson Rashel
DePuy, Anson Augustina
Dicken, Charles Edward Lee
Dickson, Richard
Duckworth, Henry Almond
Durant, Francis Alex.
Edwards, John Chandler
Ellard, Frederick Stuart, P. M.
Ellis, Alfred Tremboth
Everett, Thomas Burton
Fake, George
Fehnemann, Benjamin
Figge, Henry Carl
Finkenstedt, George
Fletcher, Herbert Priest
Fording, Howard William
Fraser, Walter Henry, P. M.
Frazier, John Ev;mgelist
Frederickson, Niel Andrew
Gillies, John
Gillig, Leo.
Granman, Frank Wilhelm
Oraf, Walter Henry
Greenman, Charles Hydron, P. M.
Hackett, William Henry
Hambleton, Thomas Clair
Hammel, Julius C., P. M.
Hankey, Lewis Edger
Hansen, Arthur Walter
Hansen, Peter Erland
Harper, William John .
Hartman, Henry Lustenberger
Hausl!r, Martin Semon
l[:iwkins. Alfred
Helnltein, John Henry
Heald, Bert Ulma
Hildebrand, Newton Franklin
Hill, Albert Palmer
Hiller, Herman Franklin, Jr.
Hodgkins, Armin Clarence
Holst, Peter Mathisen ·
Howatt, Scott Bell
Hubbel, John Harvey
Hughes, Alfred Bertrum

Hughes, Charles
Hunt, Ernest Edward
Ingle, Elbert Quincey
Johannsen, John Olaf
Johnson, John
Jones, Davi<l Melvin
Kauhamen, Alexander
Kelley, Dixon William
Kendrick, William
Kennedy, Edwin Amon
Kenyon, Walter ~dwin
Larsen, Ludvig Emil
Latimer, William George
Lavergne, Paul
Lepori, Constantine
Leve, Marcus Solomanson
Levy, Edward
Litton, Roy Burton
Lombard, John Aren
Look, Arthur Elbert
Lubbock, Oswald John
Lund, George Emil
Manning, Wilder Munson
Marks, Louis
Mattin, Thomas Calicoat
Maus, Charles Frederick
McArthur, John
McEwen, John Cameron, P. M.
McKay, Oliver Bland
McTear, William George
Miller, Lucius Sawtell
Nason, Hubert Cecil
Nielson, John Alfred
Noonan, Frank
Nordman, Peter
Owen, David John Robert
Owen, Llywelyn
Parish, James Everett
Perry, Harold Dray
Peters, William
Petersen, James Bande
Pladwell, Franklin Townsend
Post, Philip Joseph
Rasmussen, Hans Frederick
Rice, William Frederick

563

ROSTER

H.USTER
Roane, Robert Heron
Rollings, Martin Hughlings
Rounsevell, Philip Nelson
Roeeettir, Frank Stuart
Salmela, John
Schenck, Stephen Alex. Douglas
Schullerts, Frank 0., P. M.
Schwinn, Henry Carl
Scott, Clifford William
Shoberg, Nels Wilhelm
Sinclair, Rodney Fred 'k
Sittman, George August
Skow, Niels Anderson
Slavan, Jamee P., P. M.
Snow, Arthur Pliny
Stengel, Edmond Bernard
Stow, Frank Lee
Stockwell, Geo. Stanford
Swenson, Carl John
Taber, Donald Jacob
Thompson, Simpson
Thornally, Harry
Thornally, William G., Jr., P. M.
Thornally, William G., Sr.
Frost, Andrew Nisson
Kaufman, Benjamin

Thorsted, Peter Jansen
Tomlinson, Josiah
Tyack, Henry
Truitt, Harry Ellsworth, P. M.
Vandergrift, Lyle Bird
Walker, Herman Otto
Walton, Jacob Philip
Weber, Arthur
Welch, George Deake, Jr.
Whitaker, Lucian Myron
White, Alfred
White, George Cornell
Wieben, Alex. Christian
Wightman, Minor
Willard, Archie Edwin
Williams, David Greenleaf
Williams, George Francis
Williams, John Edward
Williams, Robert Henry
Williams, William R.
Wilson, David Lincoln
Wooldridge, Perry
Zeis, Oscar Louis

WITHDRAWN:
Reynolds, W.illiam Bertram
Silsby, Edward Howard

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Storch, Hugo William
Gates, Elwin William
Stormer, John Antone
Gustafson, August
Strobridge, Frank Elwood
Merkel, George
Wade, Francis North
McDonnell, Noble Alex. Johnson

DIED:
Blake, Philip Henry

565

CARQUINEZ LODGE, No. 337.
Crockett, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Merrill Boiton, Master,
George Herbert Whiteman, Chaplain,
Crockett, Cal.
Chandler Holton Smith,
Deac.,
James King, Set~ior Warden,
Leo Charles Kleinkopf, Jun. Deacon,
William Charles Madden, Jun. Ward., Charles Philip Thomas, Marshal,
George Jones, Treasurer,
Griffith Lloyd, Steward,
Herbert George Powers, Secretary, James Miller, Jr., Steward,
Crockett, Cal.
Jacob Erratt Hughes, Tyler.

·sen.

-181

MEMBERS:
Alexander, John McLay
Glick, John Alva
Andersen, John Christian
Gordon, Luther de Wayne
Astleford, Robert Jones
Hanford, Wm. Henry
Bahney, Luther William
Harris, Eugene R.
Baltrusch, Richard Carl
Harris, Thomas Allen
Beam, Arthur Wellesley, P. M.
Helmer, George Alfred
Beda, Paul
Hodgkins, George Melvin
Bolton, Thomas Merrill
Howard, Ewin Loammi
Howser, William Willard
Booth, Charles Henry
Booth, Newton Senator
Hughes, Jacob Erratt, P. M.
Booth, William Francis
Huntington, Ralph Stanley
Bowman, Melville Bryant
Hushbeck, Clarence
Broder, Joseph
Hyde, George
Clark, John J.
Jeffery, Edward John
Collings, Charles James
Jochem, Fred
Davis, John James
Jones, George, P. M.
Delacruz, Manuel
Jones, Harry Lorenzo
Dorman, John Henry, P. M.
Jones, Humphrey Rees
King, James
Doughty, Francis Paschal
Dow, David Winter
Kleinkopf, Leo Charles
Knudsen, Louie
Dunning, William Sheldon
Edwards, Thomas
Laidlaw, William Murray, P. M.
Fenwick, John Frederick
Le Bourveau, John Franklin
Freund, Edmund, P . M.
Lloyd, Griffith
Fulton, John Weir
· Long, John Albert
Gabbs, John Lincoln, P. M.
Madden, William Charles
Garwood, William Simpson, P. M.
McNaughton, William Francis
Gates, Isaac Newman
Miller, Peter, Jr.
George, Frederick Robert
Moignard, Phillip Richard

ROSTER

ROSTER
Moiles, Theo. Despard
Narbett, James Thomas Syrian
Nicholls, Harvey Bartlett
Owen, Richard Ellis
Paul, Alvin A., P. M.
Pedrotta, Charles Felix
Petersen, Emil Henry
Pli.Ulipa, Jolin Barber
Polson, Paul
Powers, Herbert George, P. M.
Quinn, James William
Reid, Edmund Robert
Rodney, Hiram Ault
Rowlands, Matthew Arthur
Skinner, Walter de Esteng

Schaecker, George Oliver
Sherman, Francis Harvey
Smith, Chandler Holton
S.ulleJ:1ger, Albert Noah
Sweetlier, George William
Taylor, George Stetson
Thomas, Charles Philip, P. M.
'l'homa~. Frederick Reuben Grant
Turner, Manley Mansfield
Upton, Geotge Lane
Warren, Cbeste1 Howard
Whiteman, George Herbert
Woodside, James Elliott
Yatchmenoff, Ans Harry
-88
Yates, Henry Newton

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Goodfriend, Aaron Isaac
Barnard, Leo Harcourt

SAN JACINTO LODGE, No. 338.
San Jacinto, Riverside County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Daniel Wehster Nightingale, Chap.,
Robert Rayruond, Sn;iith, Master,
Winslow Merrill Ryan, Seu. Deacon,
San Jacinto, Cal.
James Henry Oswald, Jun. Deaco.n,
William Henry Gray, Sen. Ward.,
George Franklin Hunt, Marshal,
Carsten Truelsen,, Jun. Warden,
Frank Anthony Druding, Steward,
Jackson Hopkins, Treasurer,
William Fred'k Keil, Steward,
Charles Edgar Dy1;1es, Secretary,
John Bartolomo Garbani, '(yler.
San Jacinto, Cal.

Aleska, Girolamo
Anderson, Everett John11on
Ballou., William Addis
Bell, Robert Lemuel
Belzer, Henry
Bingham, Samuel John
Birge, Warren. Percy
Black, S11muEl.l
Blackburn, Fred Abner
Blair, Alex~nder

MEMBERS:
Chapman, Samuel· Hall
Cook, Frank Heald
Crofton, Robert Augustus
Curl, Charles Albert
Cutler, Samuel Summers
Davidson, Callou James
Druding, Frank Anthony
Dynes, Charles Edgar
Farmer, Frank
Jl',q11t, William Al.11er

Feldmiller, John Fred
Fulton, William Macarthur
Garbani, Jacinto
Garbani, John Bartolomo
Goff, Hugh Roy
Gray, William Henry
Graf, Conrad Robert
G?over, George, P. M.
Hart, William James
Haverman, Cornelius D.
Hopkins, Jackson
Hunt, Ge().rge Franklin, P. M.
Huntoon, Joseph Horton
Jacobs, William Donaldson
Keil, William Frederick
Kimmel, Welland E.
Kinne, Elmer Frederick
Knapp, Edward Burke
Knight, Herbert Cecil D.
Ladd, Zacc.aheus Ezra
La Rue, James Zeller
La Rue, Jeremiah
Lawson, Andrew Nils
Martin, Frederick Clinton
Matthews, Gustave, P. M.
Maxwell, James Baker
Milliken, Peter
Molyneux, Robert Se:l!ton
Nightingale, D·a niel Webster
Oliver, William Thomas
Oswald, James Il!en:ry
Pierce, Clark Clyde

1307

Plato, John
Pool, Chas. Dickens
Roulston, Robert John, P. M.
Sager, Edgar Pendleton
Sallee, John P.
Sallee, Joseph Walter
Scales, John Henry
Schawcofer, Leonard Tryon
Sears, William J.
Sharp, John Christopher
Schoebridge, Henry Philip
Simpson, Joseph
Smith, HomeF Albert
Smith, Robert 'L. I.
Smith, Robe1·t Raymond, P. M.
Smith, Selvester Kincade
Snow, Rose Rutledge
Snyder, Ferdinand, Jr.
Strasser, Frederick Karl
Swezea, Jay
Ta~ner, Ellis Theo., P. M.
Ticknor, Jaaeph Cha:rles
Thompson, Frank
Van Dusen, Hany Hartman
Vosburg, William Gates, P. M.
Walker, Fred
·walker, Hayes Alonzo
'Valier, Henry Georire
Waterman, Julius Max
Wilson, William
Wright, Lucius Alonzo

WITHDRAWN:
Reid, Charles Orville
DIED:
Stanley, William Henry

-83

ROSTER

. ROSTER

568

FULLERTON LODGE, No. 339.
Fullerton, Orange Oount;v.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Matthew Melancthon Good, Chaplain,
Charles Stanley Chapman, Sen. Deac.,
George E . Lillie, Junior Deacon,
Squire J. Lillie, Marshal,
Augustus 'G. Miller, Steward,
Lucien Clarence Edwards, Steward,
Wilton Henry Bogardus, Tyler.

Amos Everett Griffin, Master,
Fullerton, Cal.
Clifton Royal Allen, Sen. Warden,
Frank Elmer Copp, Junior Warden,
Clyde W . Crandall, Treasurer,
Archie Alexander McCormick, Sec.,
Fullerton, Cal.

Allen, Clifton Royal
Almes, Charles Wesley
Ameri,ge, Edward Russell
Bailey, William Hervey, Jr.
Barnes, Wm. Asa
Benchley, Edward Kelbgg
Benchley, William Leonidas
Berkenstock, William
Berry, William Ernest
Bogardus, Wilton Henry
Boe.ge, Edward Otto
Bonderson, Peter N.
Bradfield, Elias Harvey
Bt"Rdford, Percy L.
Braly, John Claude
J;Jrown, William Thomas
Burgess, William Eugene
Canavan, Franklin Austin
Carhart, James Ralph
Chapman, Charles Clark
Chapman, Charles Stanley
Chilton, Jesse
Christie, Samuel Longhead
Clark, George Cook, P. M.
Connoly, William Arthur
Coulter, William Fair
Coulter, William Fair, Jr.
Craig, Edgar
Craig, Guy

MEMBERS:
Crandall, Clyde W.
Culmer, Edward Cruse
Cunningham, James Lloyd
Curtis, Charles Irving
Dahlman, Ludwig
t
Daley, Fiederick H.
Daniel, Charles
Daniels, Henry W.
Davis, Russell Carlton
Dean, Elmer Williams
Dietzel, John William
Dreyer, William H.
Drips, Thomas George
Dunham, Fay M.
Edwards, Lucien Clarence
Flory, Samuel
Ford, James Ezekiel
Ford, William Martin
Fowler, Franklin Lee
Frankenberger, Joseph Idell
Fuller, Samuel N.
Gardiner, John Reeder, P. M.
Garrison, Thomas Landon
Gobar, Frank J.
Good, Mathew Lincoln
Good, Matthew Melancthon, P. M.
Greenough, John A ..
Gregory, Riehard Spencer
Griffin, Amos Ernest

Gustafson, Roy William
Hale,. Willie Lee
Hamlin, William Lee
Hamm, Lewis
Harkey, Levi John
Harding, James
Henderson, Alexander
Hiltscher, August
·
Hoffman, Joseph Page
Holcomb, Francis Reuben
·Holloway, Ralph Evans, P. M.
Johnston, Wm. Howard
Kammerer, George
Kammerer, William
Kreighbaum, Oscar Adelbert
Leslie, William Lincoln
Lester, Calvin Devore
Lillie, George E.
Lillie, Orrin Wilson
Lillie; Squire J.
Longley, Floyd G.
Lotz, Charles Edwin
Lotz, John Henry
Marks, Emerson Joseph
Mursh, Arthur Orio
Marshall, John Lundy
McBride, Francis
l\!cBriile, Walter
MeCart, Thomae James
McDermont, Arthur
McFadden, Clarence Earl, P. M.
McFadden, Ralph John
McGhee, William
McKinley, Benj. Hurd
McKinley, Jerome
McPherson, Donald
Menges, Mark Millard
Metzgar, Jacob Elmer
Freeman, Alanson Willey

569

Miller, Augustus George
Mills, Charles Newton
Morse, Nathan Frank
Newell, Jame~ W.
Pendergrast, Austin Albert
Pendleton, Alexis T.heodore
Phillips, John Alex.
Piatt, Clarence M.
Pickett, James H.
Pomeroy, Albert Walker
Porter, Charles George, P. M.
Redelberger, Fred
Rhodes, Henry Louis
Ruddock, Chas. Edward, P. M.
Ruddock, George Albert
Robb, Charles James
Robinson, Loren Swift
Ross, David Marion
Saine, David Thomas
Schulte, Henry John
Scott, James Royal
Beedle, Jefferson Leroy
Skillman, Walter Henry
Sloan, Ambra Alfred
Small, Clifton Mordan
Smith, Clinton Howard
Snyder, Fred
Staley, Arthur, P. M.
Stephens, Lewis Ely
Stephens, Rosco William
Vincent, Arthur L.
Welton, George Channey
Whiteside, Russell B.
Wickers, Henry Max
Winters, William Jacob
Wittmer, Jacob
Woodruff', Walter Jonathan
Wyman, Henry Joshu_a
-134
0

WITHDRAWN:
Pitt, John Frank

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Reese, Paul
DIED:
Gowan, John Stephenson

iiiO

ROSTER

OXNARD LODGE, No. 34x.
O:imard, Ventura County.
Statru Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fu~l Moon.
OFFICERS:
( fi;1rks Haskell Weaver, Ma.Jter,

( hnard, Cal.
t\ ll>crt Gucclemann, SrA. Ward.,
J onothan Floyd Fulkerson, J. W.,
Achille Levy, Treast1re11,
George Rolen Bellah, Secretary,
Oxnard, Cal.

Frank Petit, Chaplain.,
Roy H offman, Sen. DetJca•,
Frank Wasserman, hm. D eacon,
Charles John Elliott, 11Iarshal,
Richard Fulkerson, Stew ard,
Claud C. Ruppert. Steward,
Frank Brockman Pettis, T y ler.

MEMBERS:
Argabrite, John Riley
Coultas, William Walter
Armstrong, Clarence Leroy
Crowley, William Reary
Dickerson, William Warren
Armstrong, Jolin C.
Arnold, Charles Rupe:l't
Dorn, Charles I.
Avery, John Howard
Dreher, Gustav Peter.
Driffill, James Alex., P. M.
Av ery, Ralph Walburn
Bagnall, Samuel Bremll.~r
Drury, Eugene Vernon
Bard, Thomas Robert
Dunn, Oliver :Benjamin
Eastwood, George. Edlru}nd
Baum, George
Bagley, Charles Homer
Eastwood, Herbert H.
Barrett, Ray Willits
Edmondson, Robert Buchanan, P. M.
Elliott, Charles John
Beardsley, Robert Lee
Ely, Martin Juda
Beasley, Henry Charle~
Beck, Rudolp11., P. M.
Emtman, Theo.
Engsb11m, Frans Ott~
Bellah, George Rolen
Blackburn, Thrunas B.
Engstrum, Fre~:rick Edgar
Blackstock, Charles :Fidelis
Erkes, Herman Rudeph
Boschke, G_u y
Fulkerson, Jonathan Floid
Rovee, Henry Hopkias
Fulkerson, Richard Jo-h:a1Jon
Brewster, Elbert Pineo
Gabbert, John Raymoad
Broughton, Geor.,.. A:aihony
Gabbert, Thom.as G.
· B:ruckman, Ch1illiopher
Gill, Charles Ale:x.
Burkley, August
Gill, Ernest David
Carr, Earle, P. M.
Uoodyear, William Ernest
Carr, Martin Van Buren
Gourlay, Artlmr
Carr, Philetli& SJ>l'ap, P. M.
Gi:een, Cberles Ne.:ni<!
Coen, Othello Jerome
Griffitll, James Keating
Coultas, Alex. E vert
Grigsby, Harry Pierpont ·
Coultas, Thomas Arthur
S-ve, Marvin Hurd

ROSTER
Gudemann, Albert
Hall, Robert
Hartman, Elmer Wilhie
Hatch, Roger Knux
Harkins, Alonzo
Haydock, Richard Barrett, P. M.
Heckman, John
Herlick, Jessenius
Henry, Hugh
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard
H etrick, Jasper
Hitch, James Wilson
Hoffman, Roy B.
Holst, Bendix
Roswell, Jeremiah Trone
Howland, James L.
Jenkins, Henry
Johnson, James Leborn
Keller, C. John
Knox, Chester Baker
Lamb, Harry Ralph
Lambert, Herbert Smith
Lang, James Elton
Lathrop, Walter Hubert
Le Blanc, Thomas Sydney
Lee, Herbert
Lehmann, Edmond
Lehmann, Leon, P. M.
Lehmann, Mathew
Lehmann, Paul
Levy, Achille
Levy, Henry
Livingston, Wm. Reinhardt, P. M.
Lodwig, Augustus Carl
Lothridge, Louis Stanley
Mack, Soloman Lawrence, P. M.
Mclnnes, William Joseph
McMillan, William James
Meyers, Benjamin. Franklin
Milliitan. John Leslie
Moddrell, Jesse Hugh
Montgomery, John
Murray, Joseph Henry
Myers, .Tohn Hyland
Nelson, Robert Andrew

Parish, John Wesley
Petit, Albert Ciayton
Petit, Frank
Pettis, Frank Brockman
Pierce, Russell Ely
Poggi, Isaac Martin, P. M.
Powell, Heber Chase
Reno, George
Rice, Albert E.
Rice, Ernest Everet
Rice, Paul Alvin
Rice, Thomas Alex.
Rodaway, Alfred Biggs
Rummelsburg, Simon
Rupport, Claude C.
Saviers, Winfield Scott
Schaible, Albert Kasper
Sebastian, Alfred Tennyson
Sebastian, John Louis
Sebastian, Robert Milton
Small, John Adams
Shillingston, James Wesley
Sickles, Charles M.
Smith, Charles Thomas Elmer
SIQith, Raymond Earl
Smith, Winfield Scott
Speer, Harry P .
Snively, Ray Dean, P. M.
Sllow, Hiram King, Jr.
Snyder, Frederick Autes
Spence, Jay
Stei~miller, John
Stewart, Isaac William
Thatcher, Fred Hartzell
Thompson, Ernest Milan
Tuebner, Chas.
Thurston, Albert LeBoy
'1'1.l'bett, Alvarado D<>remus
Turbett, John Smith
Turney, Douglas
Vennink, Henry Leonard
Vickers, Ashby Christian
Viles, Earl
Virden, Benjamin B.;
Wadleigh, Frank Orvill

571

ROSTER

ROSTER

572

Wineman, Henry Leonard
Wineman, Sam
Witman, Henry William, P. M.
Witman, Roy Bradfield
Wolfi', Moise Lazarre
Wood, Edwin H.
-160

Wasserman, Frank
Waterman, Emil Mux
Waterman, William Max .
Weaver, Charles Haskell
Weill, Sam
Wellington, Lorenzo Dow

Badger, Norman Nash
Black, Edwa:rd Jacob
Fulkerson, James Frederick
Hill, Ernest Rice

WITHDRAWN:
Jennings, Robert
Smith, Robert Pe:rcy
Thatcher, Harry Seymour
Wadleigh, Orville Austin

SUSPENDED FOR NON~PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brown, Albert 0.
Cook, Leon H.
Grasser, Walter Monroe

Come!I, Chai-Jes Henry

DIED:
Marx, Charles

MANILA LODGE, No. 342.
Manila, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetin.gs, first Tuesday in each month.
Withdrew from this jurisdiction December 19, 1912, to aid in form·
ing the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
OFFICERS:

Guy Clinton, Master,
P. 0. Box 407, Manila, P. I.
Robert Ernest Clarke, Sen. Ward.,
Fred'k William Abele, Jun. Ward.,
Ernest Bradford Cook, Treasurer,
Lowell Emerson Perry, Secretary,
P. 0 . Box 407, Manila, P. I.

Abele, Frederick 'William
Adams, Owen M.
Ainsworth, James Everett
Allan, Arthur Spelman
Allen, Richard
Alther, William Keller
An.derson, Henry Charles

Lewis Patstone, Chaplain,
John D. McCord, Sen. Deacon,
Nutus James Haynes, Jun. Deacon,
William Frederic Callin, Marshal,
Otto Via, Steward,
Titus Phaon Moyer, Steward,
Charles Hugo Loeber, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Angle, George Burton
Arnesen, Odmund
Atkinson, George Edward
Bach, John
Bailey, Warren Cleveland
Baldwin, Robert Caleb
Ballin, Alfred ·

Banks, Chas. Sumner
Bauer, John Emile
Beach, John Ha:rtwell
Beckjord, Harry Lyman
Bellis, Amos G., P. M.
Best, Wm. R. Llewellyn, P. M.
Beverly, David Hutchinson
Beyer, Forrest Baker
Black, William Renick
Blossom, Dallas Emerson
Blossom, Wilson Ansel, P. :M.
Bradlee, Samuel David
Brown, Claude Osgood
Brown, George Edward
Brown, Joseph Alex. G.
Bruening, William Herman
Burdette, Benjamin Lafayette
Burroughs, Wm. Basil
Burton, Joseph Harvey
Cadwallader, Harry Linco,ln
Cabling, Axel Rudolph
Cameron, Charles Raymond
Campbell, Oscar Franklin
Chadwick, Harry Richmond
Christensen, Waldemar Alfreu
Clarke, Robert Ernest
Clevenger, Geo. McClelland
Clinton, Guy
Cobb, David Lewis
Cody, Frank Jay
Cole, Amos Wolters
Coleman, Geo. Latourette
Colton, Charles MaxwP.ll
Compton, Frank John
Connolly, James Francis
Connolly, John Fanden
Connor, William Hudson
Cook, Ernest Bradford
Cooper, Henry Richardson
Courtney, Edward Joseph
Creagh, Merrick Woodman
Crimmins, Joseph Aloysino
Cullen, Gilbert Isham
Dann, Bernard
DeHufi', John David

Denson, Hugh Cowan
Deyo, Arthur Eugene
Doran, John Henry
Dorrington, LaFayette Albert
Du Fresne, Ernest Faustine
Durham, Jacob McClay
Echols, Robert Templeton
Elliott, Charles Burke
Elser, Henry William
England, Herbert F. Townley
Fagerquist, Carl August
Fawcett, John
Fayant, Joseph
Ferguson,. Henry Gardiner
Fischer, Leo
~'!etcher, Harrison Otis
Frank, George I.
Gaches, Samuel Francis
Gallin, William Frederick, Jr.
Gerlach, Ge.orge
Gill, Bruce Dean
Gilman, Allison Bruce
Golt, John Thomas
Gorton, Newton Eddy
Gracey, William Mil!er
Graves, Benjamin Hugh .
Gross, Dave Lon
Hale, Walter Franklin
Hamner, James Faris
Hansen, Olaf Christian
Harding, John Ellery
Hardman, Samuel Henry
Hargis, Lionel Desmond
Harris, Emory Lorenzo
Harstedt, William Henry
Harvey, Stuart Smeillie
Haswell, William Clark
Hauck, Joh~ Frederick
Headington, ,John Laban
Heilbronn, Joseph
Heinrich, Julius
Helfert, George Albert
Helvering, Edwin Griffith
Hemmett, Percy Elmer
Hershey, Har.ry. Lee

573

574
Hershey, Orville Scott
HH!grove, Thomas Albt'rt
Hinckley, John Scofield
Hinton, Charles Pell
Hofman, John David
Holland, Guy
Horan, John Joseph
Howe, John Colby
Hurd, George Northrop, P. M.
Hunt, Thomas Erasmus
Ingersoll, Bruce Edward
Irwin, John Louis
Jackson, Joseph Uriah
Jacobowitz, Jacob Edward
James, Clark
Jenkins, John Henry
Johnstone, Wm. Aitkin
Jones, Henry Orendorf
Kahl, Otto H~nry
Kennedy, Rock Mountain
Kindler, Charles ,Jacob, P. M.
King, William Johnston
Kipp, William J.
Kirk, William
Leuthold, Calvin Andrew
Levin, Benjamin
Libby, Percy Campbell
Lind, William Elbert
Loeber, Charles Hugo
Long, Carl Clev eland
Lunn, Jacob Osmund
Lynch, Walter
Mahan, Chas. Alfred
Mainland, Henry
Manning, Joseph Albert
Mannion, James Walter B.
Margelin, Julius
Marquardt, Walter William
Manson,. Fred 'k Lewis
Mason, George Cooper
Masters, William George
Maynard, John
MrClinton, Willard Lewis
McCord, John D.
McDonald, John Francie

ROSTER

ROSTER
McLellan, Edgar Stanley
Mendelsohn, Harry Isadore
Meredith, Frederic Charles
Miller, Alex.
Miller, Hugo Herman
Miller, James
Miller, Thomas Cavin
Milliron, Clark Jay
Moylan, Patrick
Molloy, D. M.
Morris, James Macgregor
Moyer, Titus Phaon
Nathorst, Charles Edward
N eisser, Stanislaus Maximillian
Newman, Emanuel
Nichols, Taylor ·Abraham
0 'Brien, Charles William
O'Donovan, John James
Ostrand, James Adolph
Palmer, Bert
Palmer, Wallace Cromwell Allen
Patstone, Lewis
Patstone, William Thomas
Peabody, Henry Sterling
Perry, Lowell Emerson
Perske, Louis Emil
Pettus, John Anthony
Pittman, Frank
Preston, Richard Andrew
Preuss, Oscar
Quarles, Robert Edwin Lee
Quinn, James Francis
Reiff, Christopher Arlo
Renner, Luther Abraham, P. M.
Rich, Albert Thurston
Richards, Da vid John
Richards, William Wilson
Riehl, John Jerome
Ritchey, Addison Barnhart
Ritchey, Jesse Steele
Rogers, Elmer Hanson
Rosenthal, Joseph Jacob
Ross, Edward Alexander
Ross, Harry Schultz
Rupp, Alex. Charles

•

Ryer, Andrew George
Saleeby, Elijah Mitry
Saleeby, Najeb M.
Satterthwaite, George William
Schapiro, Louis
Schiffbauer, Hans E. W.
Schimming, Edward August Wm.
Schipnll, August
Schoendube, Chas. Albert Harry
Schroeder, Ernest
Schuldt, Henry Francis
Scott, Mark
Scott, Robert Brough
Searcy, Daniel Moody
Searcy, Oscar William
Selvidge, Joseph Burnside
Shaw, Charles Noel
Shipman, Noah Haden
Sherman, William Ed.
Shoemaker, Harry Ives
Shuler, Joseph George
Simmons, Charles Mercur
Skopecek, George Randolf
Smith; Bert P.
Smolt, Frank Oscar
Solberg, Sve.rre
Springer, Milton Earle, P. M.
Stacey, Cromwell
Stafford, Harry Eugene, P. M.
Stanley, Thad1deus Warsaw
Stark, Charles
Stevens, Ernest Nichols
Stevenson, Frederick Alfred
Stewart, John LogaD.
Stiles, Charles Ayron
Stohner, George Wagner
Strattan, Guy
Thomas, Joseph Cumming
Thomas, Owen
Thompson, William Vessey

575

Tilbury, George Herbert
'l'ornorth, Werner
Trumbo, Geo. Augustus Franklin
Vanderford, Ottis Leonard
Vanov er, Wm. Sherman
Van Schaick, Louis .Toseph
Vaughn, George Irwin
Veal, Guy Roscoe
Veutorini, Nicholas Teodor
Via, Otto
Vilain, George Washington
Voiles, Henry Wm.
Waddington, James. Schole:tield
Wagner, Lisle Machison
Walker, Joynee Harwood
Walstrom, David
Walters, Henry Llewellyn
Walters, Thomas Edward
Watt, Charles Dewar
Weber, Waiter William
Wedekind, Walter Von
Welch, Hix James
Welker, Philip Albert
Weltner, Charles Burch
Wescott, George Ber'nard
Weston, Warren Wallace
Wilder, Whiteford Thompson
Wilson, Walter Eli
Williams, Charles Absalom
Willi~, Lewis Preston
Wilmarth, Charles Yates
Winterburn, Geo. Wm.
Wittenberger, Nace
Wolff, Thomas John
Wolfson, Joseph Napoleon
Wood, Roy Gelder
Wright, Albert Pleasant
Wright, Charles Edwin
Zearns, Arthur Burtis
Zollars, Charles Oswic
-274

ROS'IER
ROSTER

576

WITHDRAWN:
Jenkins, William Isaac
Krook, Lenus Gustaf Theodore
*McLain, Charles Campbell
Moxon, Frank Harold
Punter, Alfred
Rankin, Adam Warrell
*Stiles, Luther Clarence
Wegner, Adam Herman
Williams, Richard Lewis

Argetsinger, James Cameron
Beeman, John Hollen
Bingham, William Otterbin
Blazer, John Grant
Cook, Parley Merle
Dykstra, Clark N.
Eames, Horace Lovell
Huff, Elkanan Wynn
Hulett, Frank Walter

SUSPENDED FOR · NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Mcintyre, William Hoyt
Bish, William Nelson
. Perrine, Francis Joseph
Breaker, Frederick William
Pierce, Clyde D.
Casaday, George Harry
Sachaklian, Aaron Harritune
Greenwell, Samuel Alexander
.Seaver, George Henry
DIED:
Johnson, Lewis Marsena
Parkinson, Lee Allen

Bondurant, Olney
Cromwell, Ellis
*Restored during the year.

SAN FERNANDO LODGE, No. 343.
San Femando, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Thomas Burr, Master,
San Fernando, Cal.
J acnes H . Jenifer, Junior Warden,
Fred E. Strader, S ecretary,
San Fernando, Cal.

Abels, Alex.
Aiken, John Martin
Allen, Henry Connell, P. M.
Bailey, George Herbert

Clifton Wilson Judy, Chaplai11,
Patrick Odonnell, Senior Deaco11,
George Bates, Junior Deacon,
J acob Harps, Marshal,
William Lewis Bush, Steward,
Oscar Clarence Gray, Steward,
Arthur McFaddan, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Barclay, John Hugh
Barnier, Ed. Grafton
Barrett, Joseph William
Bates, George Wilber

Benson, Samuel Berger
Burr, John, P. M.
Burr, William Thomas, P. M.
DeArmand, Roy
Downes, Rolla Edward
j;rwin, William Francis S.
Evans, Roderick Dhu
Fairfield, Frank
Folger, Wilber Barton
Fraisher, Robert Love, P. M.
Fraser, Simon K.
Gifford, John Thomas
Glasscock, Raymond Kerns
Gross, Frederick Willi.am
Gray, Oscar Clarence
Gribben, David James
Grossmeyer, James
Harps, Jacob
Harris, William Charles
Hewett, William Charles
Hitchcock, Francis Wille
Hogan, Charles Sturdivant
Hubbard, Henry Cutler
Jenifer, James H., P. M.
Jones, Joseph B.
Judy, Clifton Wilson
Kidder, Frank Allen
Lewman, Edgar Burdick
Lovejoy, Arthur Edward
Mackey, John Galbrath, P. M.
Marple, Thomas George
Martin, Thomas Peter

Daniels, Elmo Charles

37

577

Matthews, William Henry, P. M.
McFadden, Arthur
McMillan, Lawrence
McCandless, Charles William
Myrick, Charles Nelson
0 'Donnell, Patrick .Joseph
Olin, Dwight B.
Peterson, Carl Alex.
Phillips, Harry Raymond
Pilcher, John Samuel
Powell, John Francis
Rolls, John Randolphus
Rickels, Thomas
Rinaldi, Otto Franklin
Rood, William Gaylord
Schneider, Chas. Edward
Schwinger, Edwin Henry
Bedwell, George William
Shaug, Charles J., P. M.
Stoner, James Eleswarth
Strader, Fred E.
Symons, Charles
Thompson, Hiram Smith
Troxel, Frank Larue
Waite, Lyman Cobb
Waite, Harry Edgar
Walker, Thomas James
Wagner, John Adam
Weldon, Arthur
W'heat, James Edgar
Wright, Francis Marion
-71

WITHDRAWN:
Hopkins, Charles Chapin
Petrie, Hugh

ROSTER

ROSTER

STARR KING LODGE, No. 344·
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:

John William Gale, Master,
240 Oregon Street.
Thomas Smith, Senior Warden,
Charles Oscar Munson, Jun. Ward.,
Albert Henry Leaf, Treasurer,
Hiram French Wright, Secretary,
1739 Fillmore Street.

Henry Walace Patrick, Organist,
Charles Baer, Senior Deacon,
Gustave Millington Carroll, J. Deac.,
Carl Cohn, Marshal,
Charles Oiiver Clausen, Steward,
Bernard Julius Joseph, Steward,
John Henry Sampson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bright, Joseph Aaron, P. M.
Abraham, Nathan
Brownstone, Louis H.
Abrahams, Abe
Bush, Ira C.
Abr.a hams, Myer
Cale, Francis Moses
Alper, Aaron Albert
Calmann, Julius
Ames, Joseph Howard
Cannon, Richard
Appel, Charles Louis, Jr.
Carlson, Mathew A.
Baer, Charles
Caro, Edward Harry
Baer, Frederick
Carroll, Gustave Millington
Baer, Louis
Chick, Herbert E.
Baker, William Johu
Chollet, Henry Edwarcl
Batt, Saul Charles
Clausen, Charles Oliver
Bell, John Hamilton
Cohen, Baruch
Benham, George Bates
Cohn, Carl
Berg, John
Cohn. Joseph
Berlie, Frank
Cohn, Max
Berry, Gustie Shield
Cohn, Samuel
Binning, Alfred Henry
Qonstine, Louis Sanders
Binns, Joseph Harry
Cooper, Abraham
Blackman, Ellis Aaron
Couchman, Clarence Arthur
Blackman, Morris Jacob
Crow, Samuel Marmaduke
Blackman, Oscar Lemuel
Curtaz, Benj.
Blume, Samuel
Curtaz, 'Oscar Hugo
Blume, Mier
Damon, George
Blume, Harry
Daniels, George Eaton
Bock, Jacob
Daniels, Roy Alonson
Bock, James Samuel
David, Charles
Bormann, Reinhold Herman
David, Isaac Lazarus
Brandenstein, Henry U.

Davis, Burris Kincaid
Davis, i'hilip
Dethlefson, Frederick
Deutsch, Ferdinand
Deutsch, Solomon, P. M.
Dinkelspeil, Henry George W.
Dobszensky, Joseph
Dode!, Hans
Dode!, Xavier
Dowling, John Charles
Dudley, Tyler
Dugdale, George Edward
Duwer, August Paul
Erickson, Charles Emil
Eschen, Lee
Farley, Frank Eugene
Fleet, Albert Edward
Fletcher, Claude Mathew
Ford, John Franklin
Forsyth, Frederick Jacob
Fox, Henry
Frank, Milton Oscar
Franklin, Harry Paul
Friedlander, Melville Lewis
Friedman, Henry
Gale, John William
Gale, Milton
Garren, David
Gates, Alex. Warren
Gensler, Julius
Gilbert, Leo
Glaser, Arnold, P. M.
Glaser, Michaelis
Glass, Arthur
Goldman, Isaac
Goldstein, Eugene Harry
Goodman, Isaac
Goodman, Joseph, P. M.
Grange, Louis August
Green, Isador S.
Gunzberger, Berthold
Hackmeier, ·Adolph j efferson
Hackmeier, Charles M., P. M.
Hackmeier, Win. Clay
Hall, Fred 'k M.

Harris, Daniel David
Harris, Louis Lazarus
Hayward, Warren Bradford
Heath, Benjamin, Jr.
Heiss, Harold Louis
Henshaw, Warre;n Wash. James
Herbst, Jacob
Herbst, Maurice Henry
Herzog, William ·Melville
Higgins, Solomon Franklin
Hirsch, Samuel
Hirshberg, David Samuel, P. M.
Hirshfeld, Isidor Morris
Hirshfeld, Peter
Honig, Samuel
Horowitz, Sebastian
Howe, Harvie Bosworth
Iberson, Robert •r.
Isaacs, Milton Wm.
Jacobs, David
.Jacobson, Samuel
Johnson, Delius Oscar
J oost, Henry M.
Joseph, Bernard Julius
Kapperman, Edward Peter
Ka tschinski, Alfred
Katchinski, Bernard
Katz, Arthur S.
Kearney, William Bernard
Kroll, Frederick William
Lang, Leonard Williams
Lazarus, Leon Ochile
Leaf, Albert Henry
Leland, Thomas Byers Woo;}
Leopold, Samuel
Lester, Albert Mona
Levison, Robert John
Levy, Albert
Levy, Eugene Montifore
Levy, Henry Marcus
Levy, Maurice Thomas
Liebling, Samuel
Lightner, Frederick E.
Lloyd, Charles
Lobree, Aaron Allan

579

580
London, Mortimer Andrew
Lundin, Folk Frederick
Lunger, Harry Elmer
Lynch, James Francis
Manners, Herbert Edmond
Marks, Clarence David
·Marston, Walter Harmon
Matthews, Thomas. Robert
May, Louis
Mayer, Emanuel Belaseo
McNab, Gavin
Meinhardt, John David
Mertens, Julius
Mish, Solomon Gerson
Munson, Charles Oscar
Myers, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Nathan, Herman
Nathan, Louis David
Neumann, Edward Rudolph
Neumann, William Frederick
Newhouse, Milton Hardwig
Nicholas, Mathias Dora ·
Nielson, Wilhelm
Northrup, Edward Everett
Odland, John O.
Oppenheim, Samuel Philip
Osman, Chas. Clay
Patric.k, Harry Wallace
Peake, William
Race, Colman
Rafael, John
Rechsteiner, Emil August
Roberts, Adam
Robinson, John Lee
Rombach, William
Rosenthal, Henry
Rosenthal, Max
Salomon, Sam
Sampson, Frank Robert
.Sampson, John Henry
Samuels, Jacob
Sanders, David
Schlesselmann, Herman Henry
Schoenwald, Emil

ROSTER
Schwartz, Solomon
Schmidt, Theo.
Scott, Joseph Harry
Scrivener, Martin 1>.
Senderman, Bernard Jacob
Shapiro, George Henry
Simenauer, Emil
Simon, Harry Lewis, P. M.
Smith, Harry Louis
Smith, Thomas
Speck, John Henry
Spencer, Carlington Theo.
Stevens, Myron Munson
Stranahan, Harry Ozro
Strine, George Wesley
Stulsaft, Morris
Thomas, Isaac
Toft, Noels Bennetsen
Tonkin, James Varco
Trout, Ferdinand
Truman, Charles Henry Jacob
Unger, Isidor
Waring, Henry Monroe
Wegener, George Nicholas
Wehser, Will Emil
W eidenthal, Samuel H.
Weir, James
Wendling, George Xavier
Wessel, Harry Arthur
Williams, William Robert
Winterberg, Gustave Conrad
Withington, Charles Warren
Wittman.• William George
Wolfenden, George Carlile, P. M.
Wolfe, Edward I.
Wolff, William
Wollenberg, Charles Maurice, P. M.
Wollenberg, Isidor
Worster, Arthut Bourne
Wright, Hiram French
Yeatman, John Andrew
Yonge, John Duke
Young, Golson
Zelinsky, David
-234

ROSTER

Bernstein, Jacob
Boyd, Robert

f*'l

WITHDRAWN:
Elser, Edwin E.
Gregeory, Frank Starr
Israel, David

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Owen, Ferguson
Lemoine, Emil. A.

Cooper, John Freeman

DIED:
Hislop, Robert Cooper

BRENTWOOD LODGE, No. 345.
Brentwood, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Austin Watson Collis, Master,
Robert Wallace, Chaplain,
Brentwood, Cal.
Archie E . Bonnickson, Sen. Deacon,
Henry W. Heidorn, Sen. Warden, Paul F. Bucholtz, Jun . Deacon,
Enoch Wardo Sheddrick, Jun. Ward.,John Boyd, Marshal,
Alexander Burness, Treasurer,
William A. Vivian, Steward,
Robert H. Wallace, Secretary,
John F. Bruns, Steward,
Brentwood, Cal.
Charles T. Shellenberger, Tyler.

Agnews, Jesse B.
Altizer, William Taswell
Barkley, George Taylor
Bettens, Albert
Bonnickson, Archie E'Verett
Boyd, John, P. M.
Boyd8ton, Erwin Johnson
Boydston, Ulysses Ambler
Bridges, Aaron Nelson
Brown, Frank Thomas
Bruns, John Frederick.
'Bucholtz, Paul
Buness, Alexander
Bunn, Edwin
Carmichael, David
Collis, Austin Watson, P. M.
Cook, Francis Steven

MEMBERS:
Cowan, Charles
Dean, Alden Ora
Estes, William Jefferson
Gardner, Robert
Gibson, Albert Charles
Grigsby, Byron Lindsey, ·P. M.
Harley, Sherman Ellsworth
Harrower, Robert, Jr.
Heidorn, Frederick Henry
Heidorn, Henry William
Hinebaugh, Walter Broox
Hobbs, Wm:
Howard, William Guy
Hutchins, George N.
Kelly, Fernando Gu~
King, Emanuel Anthony
Kopperud, Anders Harold

.582

ROSTER

Lemoin, Rueben E.
Lewis, Thomas Archibald ·
Lucksinger, Frederick M.
Ludinghouse, George Henry
McCabe, Roy Le.ster, P. M.
McNutt, Simon F.
Morgans, Watson Philip
Morgans, William Watkins
Nason, James Edward
Nunn, George
Petersen, Alfred
Pettit, William Wallace
Prewett, Joseph Granville
Prewett, Orlando Columbus, P. M.
Richards, Lewis

ROSTER

Russell, George Clifford
Shafer, Earle Bainbridge
Shafer, George Henry
Sheddrick, Enock Waldo
Shellenberger, Charles Thomas·
Stone, Harry
Taylor, Volney
Veale, William Worth
Vivian, Wm. Albert
Wallace, Robert Harold
Wallace, Robert, Jr., P. M.
Weihe, Frederick Williaqi.
Whipple, William M.
Williamson, William Colbert
-63

PALO ALTO LODGE, No. 346.
Palo Alto, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Webster Wells, Master,
365 Guinda Street.
Claude Standish Downing, Sen. W.,
Edward Clair Thoits, Jun. Ward.,
John Fletcher Bixbee, Treasurer,
William Clowes Werry, Secretary,
632 High Street.

George Washington Harms, Chaplain,
Clement Elisha Jordan, Sen. Deac.,
Ralph Warner Follmer, Jun. Deac.,
William Benjamin Allen, Marshal,
Harry Norman Vandervoort, Stew.,
Otto Albert Wideman, Steward,
Richard Werry, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ackley, Edward
Black, Marshall
Allen, Benjamin Graves
Blackman, Harold Stabler
Allen, Franklin S.
Blake, Thomas Barnard
Allen, William Benjamin, P. M.
Blee, Harry Harmon
Bailey, Leslie Eugene
Boyd, John Duncan
Barker, Lewis Harmon, P. M.
Braunschweiger, Edward
Bamhisel, Winfield Scott
Brinton, Walter Franklin
Barrett, Frank
·
Buck, Sylvester John
Beal, William Harvey
Burke, William Edmund
Bell, Benjamin Franklin
Byxbee, John Fletcher
Bell, John Henry
Campbell, Henry Aver
Bille, George Christian
Carah, John Henry
Billwiller, Ernest Oswald
Carrithers, Albert S. W.

Jones, James Walter
Childs, Clarence E.
Jordan, Clement Elisha
Clack, George Sydney
Kaiser, Joseph Jacob
Clack, Sydney
Kingham, Edward John
Clute, Elbert Schuyler
Kirk, Josiah Nerman
Cochran, Thomas Craig
Lakin, Egerton Drew
Coman, Daniel Earl
LaPeire, Edwin Arnaud
Cone, James Stowe
Laumeister, Gustave
Cook, Gordon Irving
Lausten, Brousen Peter
Crawford, Perry Orson
Leaf, Erle Mervin
Crooks, John Chisholm
Levy, Paul Mark
Cuthbertson, Harry Fender
Lewis, Arthur Edward
Dean, Will~am
Liggett, James Bennett
Decker, Charles William, P. M.
DeForest, Albert Tracy
Lockey, Richard, Jr.
Derby, William Flagg
Logan, James Blaine
Downing, Claude Stan<lish
Mart.in, Ernest Whitney
Dudfield, John
Martin, Geo. Everett
Duryea, Edward, Jr.
McComish, Ralph Clinton
Engle, Alfred Jones
McCowen, Hale, Jr.
Ferguson, Aleck Sanford
McDowell, John Ezra
Fisher, Mar11hall Weston
McKinney, William Thomas
Fitzgerald, Fred Finley
Meares, John London
Follmer, Ralph Warner
Metz, William
Fo~, George Lawrence
Miller, Clark Flickner
Foss, James Calvin
Miller, Frank Joseph
Gallagher, Gustave Charles
Monzingo, John Johnson
George, Emery Edwin
Morris, Joseph Jonathan
Gilman, Charles Edward
Mosher, George Wilbert
Gilman, Philip Kingsnorth
Moyer, Jonas Jacob
Goodman, Theodore Henry
Munger, Arthur Lee, Jr.
Griffin, James Owen
Myer, Arthur Henry
Hackley, Robert Edward
Newland, Lloyd
Haehl, Harry Lewis
Noble, Chester Francis
Hall, George Elbert
Ogier, Andrew Reid
Harms, George Washington, P. M. Olsen, Peter
Henry, Clarence Eugene
Orr, Horatio William
Herdman, ·Robert Ernest
Palmateer, Theron Josiah
Hodges, Charles Edward
Parsons, James Edward
Holman, Sidney Smith
Patrick, William
Horabin, William 0.
Patterson, Henry Samuel
Huffman, Warren
Patton, John Quincy
Hughes, Watt
Pennock, John
Hutchinson, Francis George
Perry, Henry Fates
Ingelow, Geo. Carpenter
Port er, Arthur Miller
Johnson, John Olaf
Prewitt, Jesse Augustus

583

584

ROSTER

Read, Bill
Reinhart, Jacob Henry
Reynolds, Harry Clendenin
Roberts, Hugh Roland
Robinson, Chas. Aubrey
Rodgers, Walter
Roller, Arthur
Roller, Josiah Wickard, P. M.
Roller, Milton Benjamin, P. M.
Ryan, Shirley Bell
Sabin, Henry Wells
Salbach, Lloyd Fillmore
Saunders, Arthur Bertram
Saunders, Howard Elwood
Seale, Alfred, P. M.
Seargeant, James Everett
Schenck, Robert Noble
Schomberg, Robert Noble
Schwarzkopff, Rudolph Herman
Shelton, James Erritt
Simkins, Henry Walter
Smallpage, Lafayette John
Smith, Charles Lewis
Snow, Frank J otham
Sonnickson, Andrew Outzen
Spamer, Herbert August
Spencer, Allan Thomas
Starnes, Xaver Brand
Taff, Joseph Alex.
Taylor, Charles Marvin
Taylor, Eiiwin Lothrope
'l'aylor, Henry Thomas
Taylor, Leroy Edwin

Greenwood, Harlow Verne

Taylor, Rodman M.
Thoits, Edward Clair
Thoits, Willis Clifford
Thomas, Benjamin
Thompson, Philip Johnson
Thorpe, Roy Pearl
Umphreys, Albert N., P. M.
Upham, Henry Laurens ·
Vandervoort, Harry Norman
Walker, Charles Conwell
Walker, Lou Cain
Wallace, Roger Wayue
Wallace, Van Alstine
Waring, Gerald Ashley
Weck, Edward
Weisshaar, Emil Florentz, P. M.
Wells, James Webster
Werry, Richard
Werry, William Clowes
White, Walter Noy
Wideman, John Baptiste
Wideman, Otto Albert
Wiley, Joseph Woods
Willard, John David
Wilson, Carl Groves
Wiltse, Benton R.
Winsor; Anon A.
Wood, Fred 'k Bertram
Woods, Ira McMicken
Woodward, Robert Clarence
Worsley, Ralph Harlow
Young, Clarence R.
-182
Zschokke, Theo. Christian

WITHDRAWN:
Gruwell, Horace
Williams, George

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Buss, William Gardner
Firebaugh, Charles Ludwig
Winsor, Henry Richard
DIED:
Motz, Arthur Frank

ROSTER

585

McKINLEY LODGE, No. 347.
Richmond, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Edward Rose, Master,
Henry Leander Ellis, Chaplain,
447 Twentieth Street.
Hiram Nathan Jacobs, Sen. Deacu11,
Charles Johan Peterson, Sen. Ward., Clarence Herbert Foote, Jun. DctJ.c,,
Edward Lincoln Jones, Jun. Ward., John Herbert Rumrill, Marshal,
John Richard Nystrom, Treasurer, Michael Henry Carey, Steward,
w ·a lter Theodore Helms, Secretary, Roy Clifford Fernald, Steward,
235 Sixth Street.
John Roth, TyleY.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Tobias Whit
Dalton, Charles Irving .
Allen, Edwin Otto
Dargitz, Edwin Dewaine
Abbott, Ursa S.
Davis, Daniel Davin
Barney, Hawley Nathan, P . M.
Differding, Henry
Barnhouse, Howard Remus
Dolan, Edward
Beer, John Charles
Down, Fred Robert
Belding, William Forsythe
Doyle, Vaechel Valentine
Bennison, Walter Scott
Duke, Ernest Clifton
Bergold, Wilbur Weygant
Ells, Harry, P. M.
Blake, Charles Robert
Erwin, David Lyttle
Bolt, John Adolph
Fenwick, William Brownlee
Fernald, Roy Clifford
Boorman, Benjamin
Booth, William Chamberlain
Fink, Joseph
Brown, John Elbert
Fitzpatrick, Patrick B.
Bunting, George
Follett, Geary Alton, P. M.
Cady, Ira Oscar
Foote, Clarence Herbert
Calfee, David Walker
Fordtran, Robert Lea
Campbell, Archibald Hamilton, P. M Forrest, James
Campbell, Palmerston ('ornick
Forster, Carl Emil
Carey, Michael Henry
Fox, William Alex.
Fuller, Ira Ford
Church, Palen, P. M.
Clark, Charles Allen
Gillespie, Adam
Codeglia, Antonio Nicodemo
Gillispie, Robert
Cowan, Charles Henry
Goldstein, :Maurice James
Coward, J.ohn Robert
Hammill, Eddie Luman
Critchett, Frank
Helms, Walter Theo~ore
(1ronin, James Arthur
Hopkins, David
Cruickshank, James
Hulin, Henry Titus
Dailey, Benjamin Clinton
Hulse, John Sidney

586

ROSTER

Jacobs, Hiram Elnathan
Jacobs, Thomas Parker
Jahnke, Albert August
Johnson, Nels
Johnson, Robert John
Johnston, Henry Albert, P. M.
Johnston, Milford Ray
Johnston, William Granville
Johnston, William Henry, P. M,
Jones, Edward Lincoln
Kirkwood, Edward
Kinney, Herman Bishop
Kiwisar, Martin August
Keeney, 'l'homas Jefferson
Kennedy, Charles. Clark
Kerner, Michael James
Larrabee, William Leroy
Larsen, Johan Christian
Leavell, Lewis Edward
Leber, Joseph Charles
. Leyhe, Otto
Linsley, Carlos Shelton
Little, Samuel Glines
Lubeck, John Reinhold
Lucas, William Austin
Lindahl, John
Martin, Joseph Sautana
Mason, William Daniel
McCombs, Frank
McHugh, Eval Huber
McRacken, Winfield Scott
McVicker, Archibald
McVittie, James Arba
Metzger, Elias Burgess
Meyers, Wm. Henry
Michaels, Max
Mitchell, David Leroy
Morrison, Alexander John
Morrison, John Mcintyre, P. M.
Murray, John
Neville, Frederick Morgan
Nixon, Walter Wood
Nystrom, John Richard
0 'Brien, Pat Alva
Odell, Alpheus

Odell, Clarence Archer
Palmer, Frank McVicker, P. M.
Park, George
Parker, Robert Lea
Parry, Charles Ed~ard
Peterson, Charles Johan
Penry, Henry Lincoln
Pfeil, John Edward
Phillips, Virgil
Picton, William
Pollard, Frank
Poulsen, Otto Alex.
Rasmussen, Hans Peter
Ribley, Clyde
Richards, Howard W.
Richmond, William Brook, P. M.
Rihn, Charles Joseph
Rose, William Edward
Roth, John
Roth, Walter Edward
Rumrill, John Herbert, P. M
Schaeter, Chas. Bismarck
Schoen, Frederick
Scharer, Lucas Frederick
Schwartz, Charles Adolph
Severio, Frank
Sickal, Marcus Theo.
Smallwood, Ed. Baltimore
Smith, Beverly Bailes
Smith, Herbert Williamson
Smith, John Samuel
Spagnoli, Ben Wesley
Summers, Thomas Holden
Sutherlen, William Nelson
Swearingen, Barney
Swearingen, Harry Charles
Thomas, Benj. Franklin
Thompson, William Lewis
Topping, George Washington
Trull, Walter B.
Turkovich, Charles
Turkovich, Santo Mathew
Vidal, Frederic Emeric
Vize!ich, Stanley Earle
Walker, William Andrew

ROSTER
Williams, William Henry
Wolf, Adolph Arnold Theo.
Wood, Frank Goodacre
Wood, Robert Newcomb
Wylie, Oliver

Weirick, John Calvin
Whitcomb, Charles David
White, Howard Bennett
Wierda, Lambert
Willets, Edward Brackett

587

-158

WITHDRAWN:
Brown, Warren Bateman
•Maxfield, James Edward
Calfee, Ross Lewis
tMaier, Walter Alexander
*Canatsey, George
*Peti!lion, William Frederick
*Glavinovich, Luke Joseph
*Poage, Albert
Gregory, John Hamilton
•Rockwood, Herbert Lacey
tHadley, Walter Hugh
*Rowland, Ira Clayton
*Harlow, Edward Howe
Slattery, Richard Edmund
*Hopping, Clyde Everett
*Stiver, Hershey Annin
*Thayer, Thomas
·~verson, Josias
*Jennings, Elijah
*Tucker, Bert X.
Little, Leonard
•Vestal, Hall
Whittle, John Franklin
•Affiliated during the year.
tDegrees conferred during the year.

SAN BERNARDINO LODGE, No. 348.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:

James Shedden, Master,
Jacob Samuel Jonas, Chaplain,
San Bernardino, Cal.
Albert Glatz, Senior Deacon,
Roscoe Adams Goodcell, Sen. W., Thomas Henry Tully, Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Hurd Wilson, Ju n. Ward., J ohn Hadrin Ownbey, Marshal,
Wi!liam Swayze Hooper, Treasurer, Frank Wayne Webster, Steward,
John Flagg, Secretary,
Roscoe Clyde Patterson, Steward,
Box 477, San Bernardino, Cal.
Sydney Mee (Phoenix Lodge No.
178), Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andreson, John
Albert, James Edward
Aldridge, Marion Lafavette, P. M. Anker, Rudolph
Allen, Byron William
Arbios, Joseph Jacob
A.lien, William David Frankli•
Armantage, William Lilley
Ball, William Amos
Allison, Charles Loran
Allison, Claude H.
Barcume, George Rolland
Allison, Monte Demoaa
Batchelor, Sherman G.

588

Benjamin, Isaac
Benson, Nels R.
Blair, Edwin Scott
Bled~oe, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Bledsoe, Howard
Bledsoe, James Blair
Bledsoe, Robert Emmett
Boehm, Hiram Jesse
Boger, Roger Frank
Boggs, William Stewart
Bradley, Robert Emmett
Bright, J. Shirley
Bright, Joseph Shannon, P. M.
Brill, Henry Edward
Brison, Wm. Willey, Jr., P. M.
Brown, William Lear, P. M.
Brush, Frederick Morton
Burgoyne, George
Caldwell, Oliver Morton
Carey, Charles Francis
Carner, Jackson Ernest
Carner, James Henry
Carpenter, Lucius Jerome
Carter, Tom Osland
Casey, Ben Shane
Churchill, Charles ba:vid
Cleveland, Frank A.
Coates, James Arthur
Cobbs, Albert Ric.hard
Cohn, Caesar
Cole, Frank Horace
Coultrap, Clyde
Cunnison, James
Curtis, Isiah Hamilton
Daley, Charles Jefferson
Daley, Frank . Barber
Daley, Michael Breen
Dean, John William
Deuchrass, Robert Bowie
Douthat, Warren H.
Downer, Abner John
Draper; Joshua Clinton
Draper, Stoddard Stevens
Dresser, Nathaniel A.
Drew, Arthur Linford

ROSTER
Drew, Fred Charles
. Drew, Roy Fordham
Dubbell, Peter John
Ellis, Arthur Nelson
Farner, William Samuel
Feetham, Geo. Francis Andrews
Fisk, Oliver James
Fitting, Hans H.
Fitting, Harold Hansen
Flagg, John, P. M.
Frith, Joseph Breathwhite, P. M.
Frye, Gailen K.
Frye, Thomas Wilmott
Fussell, Elbert Ross
Gansner, Henry Florian
Geiger, Frank
Glasgow, Nathaniel B.
Glass, David Rose
Glatz, Albert
Glessner, Leroy Scott
Goodcell, Roscoe Adams
Graham, Henry Noel
Greer, Henry Munns
Grow, Charles Melville, P. M.
Hadden, Thomas
Ham, Alex. McMillian
Hanf, Charles Morrill
Harbison, Robert Clelland
Harris, Burton Lee
Harrison, John
Harrison, John Parker
Heath, Hora~e I.
Henderson, John Alexander
Henderson, Lubin Jameson
Herkelrath, Charles Philip
Herlick, Peter
Hibbard, Oscar Henry
Higginson, Osmond Francis
Hight, John Platte
Himes, Benjamin Franklin
Hitchcock, William England
Hooper, William Swayze
Hoover, William Davis
Houghton, Lagona Derias
Housley, John Pellmas

ROSTER
Howland, Harry Charles
Hunt, William Charles
Ingersoll, Joseph
Irving, Carl
Irving, William Edward
Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Johnson, John Franklin, P . M.
John~on, Volney Thomas
Jonas, Jacob Samuel
Kelley, Stephen Francis
Kendall, Albert Glenn
Kerrn, William
Keyser, Howard
Laurance, Edwin Palmer
Lau"terborne, Geo. Easton
Lawrence, Albert Edward
Lebovitz, David
Levy, Henry Raphael
Levy, Morse Samuel
Liverman, James Rufus
Longmire, Rufm1 Elbert
Loring, George Washington
Lothrop, Clinton Augustus
Lyman, Eugene Harding
MacGillivary, Russell W.
Mackenzie, Donald William
Madtlox, William Clarence
Mallery, Arthur George
Manson, William Alex.
Mark, Max
Martin, John Franklin
McDona.ld, 'fbomas Clifford
McElvaine, JeJferson
McElvaine, William Augustus
McNabb, Samuel Brown Wylie
McQuiston, Flourons J.
Mettler, Alfred Samuel
Miller, William Henry
Monahan, Charles Henry
Mort, . Clyde Everett
Newcomb, Leroy E.
Newton, DeWitt Perkins
Nish, James Easton
. Nye, William Edward.
Owen, Gilbert Roy

Ownbey, James Hardin
Ownbey, Laramie Robert
Paddock, Aland Bertram
Parker, Wilbur Melton
Peck, Elbert Charles
Pert, Thomas James
PfAiffer, Louis Alexander
Phillips, John B., P. M.
Phy, John M.
Poppett, Edward
.l:'oppett, John Robert
Post, Charles, P . M.
Prescott, George Wash.
Preston, Godfrey
Preston, Thomas Cleveland
Rawicz, Louis Morris
Rawicz, Samuel R.
Reynolds, Dutton James
Rich, Joseph Eugene
Roberts, Clark Victor
Rogers, Daniel Ambrose
Rogers, William Horton
Rourke, William
Rouse, Charles A11gust1111
Ryan, Edmond D.
Schlott, Dwight Coleman
Shatto, Samuel M.
Shay, Walter AlexandP.r,
Shedden, James ·
Sibley, Hiram Dell
Slama!, John
Sloat, Orrin Peck
Smith, James William
Smith, Victor C.
• ·starke, Frank Ganahl
Starke, William
Stevenson, Orren Menzie
Stiles, William Heman
Stockwell, Charles Martin
Stone, Moses Phillips
Strong, David Charles
Surr, John Howard
SwarthOut, Albert Riley
Talbott, William Park
Thomas, John Winchester

589

ROSTER

ROSTER

590
Thompson, Robert Scott
Thoms, Clifford Carlson
'fucker, Edward W.
Tully, Thomas Henry
Voelkel, Theo. Robert
Wade, Charles A.
Wagner, Walter Douglas, P. M.
Waide, James Wilkerson
Waite, Everett Randall
WattM, Robert Floy~
Webster, Frank Wagner
Weston, Joseph
Craw, Richard Ralph
Ables, Albert Austin

Weston, William Henry
Whitcomb, Horace Vernon
Whitcomb, Rupert Webster
Whitham, James Henry
Wilson, Joseph Hurd
Wierwillie, Henry Adolph, P. M.
Woodling, Frank Leighton
Yarnell, John L.
Yerkes, James Houston
Young, Walter
Zombro, Sumpter F.

-217

WITHDRAWN:
Arnott, Frank Hoover
Neff, J. Roderick
DIED:
Runyan, James Madison

Donnatin, Frank

SEQUOIA LODGE, No. 349.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Floyd Hughes, Master,
John Ryle MacGregor, Chaplain,
802 Market Street ·
James Burris Wood, S en. Deacon,
Orville Benton Caldwell, Sen. Ward., Charles Clinton Young, Jun. Deacon;
Edwin Mason Fant, Jun. Ward.,
Charles Chubb, Mar;hal,
Gilman William Bacon, Treasurer, John B. A. Stewart, Steward,
John William Gwilt, Secretary,
Bruno Albert Forsterer, Steward,
Security Bank Bldg.
James Rothschild Sloan, Tyler.

Adams, Wilbur Roy
Aikens, Ebbie Campbell
Allison, Claude Willis
Allsworth, John Boyd
Anthony, Thomas Maurice
Anguermuende, Wm. Christian
Appling, Jackson Beauregard
Atherton, Almon Dwight
Bacon, Gilman William, P . M.

MEMBERS:
Baker, Arthur Tullock
Baker, Harry Hamilton
Bammann, Fred 'k Richard
Bartelme, Ferdinand John
Bausch, Chas. Julius
Bayley, Frank Leslie
Bell, Glen Robert
Bell, William Picken·
Bendle; Robert

Bendel, Roland
Bennett, Peter
Blessing, Chas. Bernhardt
Bouterious, Amiel Oliver
Bowes, John Edward
Breedlove, Ira Newton
Bright, Herbert Nelson
Brill, Oscar Charles
Brodien, Edward Benjamin
Brown, Clifford Edwin
Brown, Harry Winchester
Brown, Samuel, P. M.
Browne, Roy James
Brune, Alfred Ernest
Brusstar, William Smith, Jr.
Bullock, Orin Miles
Burr, Geo. Washington
Cahill, Patrick
Caldwell, Orville Benton
Chapman, William H.
Uhristopher, Charles Andrew
Chubb, Charles, P. M .
Chubb, William Henry
Church, Elmer Sprague
Church, Harley Robert
Clark, Ernest Milieus
Clarke, Austin Fisher
Cobb, Lewis Harrison
Colb, Rufus Warren
Codington, Charles Frederick
Coffman, Alfred Bonh
Cole, Archie Duane
Cole, James Cairns, P. M.
Collins, Richard James
Collins, Willis Harold
Cooley, Frank Lucius
Connell, Robert
Cox, William Warren
Cowell, Chas. Herbert
Currlin, Varlin Albert
Currlin, Waldemar Edmund
Curzon, Frank
Darrow, John Walworth
Davey, Thomas Penrose
Davis, Warren Marcus

Day, Edward James
Dean, Orie Snyder
Demers, Iszdor Peter
Dexter, Henry Cushing
Dick, Frederick Stewart
Dimpfel, George Peabody
Divelbiss, Charles Elsworth
Dixon, James Isaac
Dixon, Joseph Henry
Dolbier, Francis Delmar, P. M.
. Donahoo, Edward Denniston
Doph, Robert Burns
Daughtrey, Edwin
Douglas, John Jasper
Dukes, Charles Alfred
Duncan, Robert, Jr.
Dunn, Carleton Howard
Dunn, Frank Marion
Earl, Wallace Leroy
Eckert, Fred 'k Wm.
Edwards, Francis Walter
Edwards, Thomas Edward
~dwards, William Henry
Elftman, Oscar Alexander
Elkinton, Jacob Henry
Elliott, Harold Fred 'k
Elliott, John Scholes
Elliott, Ray Stevens
Elliott, Roy Herbert
Eliis, George Walter
Ellis, Louis Albert
Emery, Charles Delmar
Fant, Edwin Mason
Filgate, James Robert
Fletter, Oliver Watson
Forbes, Ernest
Forsterer, Bruno Albert
Fuettever, Otto
Fuller, George Carlyle
Galbraith, Alexander
Gibbs, Samuel Henry
Gilbert, Thomas
Gilbertson, James Coolidge
Gillet, Wallace Levi
Gisbert, John Jacob

591

592

ROSTER

Glando, Frank
Goldsmith, Bernard Seaman
Goodwin, Edward Leonard
Gray, Leon Ernest
Greer, Jerome Bonaparte
u-rismore, George Calvin
Guild, William
Gwilt, John William, P. M.
Hadler, John Henry
Hadley, Marquis De Lafayette
Hagan, Hugh Lawrence
Hallowell, Edward Lewis
Hambleton, Fred 'k Wm.
Hamilton, William Britton
Hammack, George Fred 'k
Hanna, James Clendenin
Hansen, Andrew Martin .
Hansen, Hans Petter
Hare, Horace Edward
Harford, Albert Kellogg
Harlow, Wilbur Burton
Hartley, David Clough
Haugh, Edward Stanford Samuel
Hawley, Frederick William
Hawley, Robert Tipton
Heathorne, William Elisha
Hedberg, Karl Adolph
Hederilark, John Christian
Hendrickson, Alonzo Bell
Henning, John Arthur
Hobron, Samuel Harris
Holt, Robert Lyman
Hopkins, Dan Leslie
Hopkins, Frank Reuben
Hopkins, Oliver Garratt
Horton, William Rogers
Hubbard, Ludlow
Hudspeth, Charles Ernest
Huebbe, Edwin Henry
Hugh~s, Edward Floyd
Hughes, Geo. Franklin
Hughes, Richal'ld
Huntley, John Stanley
Hurlbut, Reuben Preston
Husband, Charles, P. M.

Hutchinson, Gilbert Henry
Inne.s, John .
Irish, Clifford Lucius
Jackson, Ward Sutliff
Jeffery, Charles Alex.
Jeffery, Richard Edgar
Jenkins, Richard Henry
Jenkins, William Norman
Johnson, Albin Rudolph
Johnson, Charles, Jr.
Johnson, Edwin ·Henry
Johnson, Richard Bruner
Journal, Philip Samuel
Jung, Gottlieb
Jurgens, Chas. Henry
Kehoe, William Evans
Keifer; Harry Edward
Kelley, John Phillips
Kelly, Alexander Simpson
Kergan, William Wesley
Kirkland, John Nicholson
Kivett, Walter Lee
Klinkner, Frederick_S.
Klinkner, Herman Parke
Knapp, Sherman Irwin
Kulchar, Stephen
, Kuster, Mathias
Lackey, Howard Jullan .
Lake, Rufus Nathan
Larter, Harry de Witt
Laufer, Frederick William
Leiter , Charles William
Leiter, George Laren
Letts, Henry John
Lewis, Hiram James
Lewis, Walter James
Lilley, John Francis
Lind, Edward Martin
Lindeblad, Peter
Lockwood, Julian Lyman
MacDonald, Arthur Thomas
Macfarlane, William Johnston
Macfee, Neil
MacGregor, John Ryl e, P. M.
MacMillan, Alexander

ROSTER
Manning, Henry Lebusquet
Marquardt, Reynold' Gottlieb
Martin, George Washington
Martin, Thomas Clark
Massey, Cyrel Vernon
Matthews, Harry Joseph
McClunie, William Jo\lnstone
McCoy, William Johnson
McEwen, John Ale:ir.
McGregor, Archibald McL.
McKinnon, Chester Gordon
McKinnon, Russell Norman
McMath, John Frederick
Mead, Rollen Orlando
Meredith, George Sargent
Metcalf, Solon Thayer
Mielenz, Francis William Pinnick
Miller, Mathias
Miller, Wesley Washington
Moe, Charles Oliver
Morris, Charles Benjamin C.
Morris, Ray Hunt
Mote, Jesse Frampton
Mulford. Frank Stratton
Muller, Robert Eugene
Myhre, Samuel Alfred
Neal, John Wesley
Nebrkr, FFank Orlando
Nicholas, James Stewart, Jr
Nickerson, Georice Whitefield
Norman, Robert Edward
Northcut. John Raymond
Norton, Dixon Beldon
Olsen, Hans
Olsen, Oscar
Olsen, Sydney Gilbert
Parke, James Henry
Parsons, Chas. Jeffreys
Paulsen, Christian Nicolai
Pellymounter, Otis Ashley
Poterson, Carl Theodor
Platt. Samuel J.
Porter, Frank Flint, P. M.
PorterfielO, Arth.ur Colmery
38

Poulter, Alfred l\!ayer
Poulter, Charles Edward
Poulter, Charles Thomas
Price, Wallace Covert, Jr.
Quinn, Paul John
Ragland, William Beverly
Randall, Earl Roscoe
Read, Roy Risley
Reagh, Edward Mitchell
Reed, Clarence Monroe
Recd, George William
Reed, William
Riegels, Max Jacob A.
Risley, ThomaB Eugene
Robinson, James Irwin
Robinson, Thomas M.
Robinson, Thomas Shanks
Rogers, Edward Kenneth
Rogers, Eugene Charle11
Roland, Eugene Wellington
Ruble, Milton Alfonso
Rugg, Ray Ruggles
Rudolph, Louis Andrew
Sayers, John Walter
Schubart, Richard Charles
Schwaner, William Frederick
Scott, Francis Henry
Scott, George Amos
Scott, John Christiansen
Scrivens, Charles John
Seavey, Benjamin Eastman
Seavey, Ralph Eastman
Seiler, Herbert Frederick
Senram, Frank C.
Sharp, Craigie
Sharp, Harry William
Sharp, Joseph William
Shedd, Horace Everett
Shepperd, EI.mer Earl
Silsby, Edward Howard
Sloan, James Rothschild
Smith, Dudley Almontt>
Smith, Ray Sidney
Smith, Robert Tangier

ROSTER

594
Smith, Rufus Garfield
Speneer, Wirt D.
Stearns, Elum Earl
Stein, Philip Harry
8tewart, .Tohn ·B. A.
Stieper, Julius Theodor
Stoll, George Fredrick
Stollard, Thomas Alfred
Stratford, Chester Grant
Stratford, Frank Cornish
Stricklen, Edward Griffith
Struckman, Paul Fred
Stuart, Victor Daniel •
Swift, Jesse Herbert
Taylor, Albert Enri
Taylor, Charles Harold
Taylor, Clement Edwin
Taylor, Guy
Thompson, Edward Anderson
Thompson, Thomas J e:ffries
Thomson, James Madder
Torley, Harry George
Trousdale, Otto J.
Tutt, Riehard William
Valentine, Lineoln Garfield
Chesney, William James

Wall, Charles Julius
Ward, Herbert Merritt
Weeks, Anson Button
Welch, Wm. Carroll
Wells, Darius Wm ..
Wells, Frederick Coffing
Wells, Herbert Arthur
Wentworth, Samuel Augustus
Whitehead, Rupert
Whiting, Frederick James
Whitmore, Campbell Dunlap
Whitney, Hamlin Avery
Williams, Franklin H.
Williams, Herbert Lerenzo
Williams, Ivor George
Williams, John Ellis P.
Williams, Phillip
Williston, Thomas Allan
Wilson, Oliver Thomas
Winchell, Calvin Smith
'Vollaston, Thomas Allan
Wood, James Burris
Wylie, David Bruce
Wyndham, Arthur Cherrington
Young, Charles Clinton
-336

WITHDRAWN:
Sparhawk, Edward Ernest

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bromley, George Scribner
Olmsted, Theodore
Brown, Frank Theodore
Pettygrove, Alfred Raymond
East, Henry
Russell, George Albert
Howard, Willis Clinton
Toliey, John Howard
Kreuger, Maxamil!ian Adolphus
Walker, William Pearl

Brockman, Isaac Hugh
Martin, George Hayward

DIED:
Thorne, William Davis
Dyer, Theodore Xavier

ROSTER

595

CAVITE LODGE, No. 350.
Cavite, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
Withdrew from this jurisdiction December 19 1912 to aid in
formation of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Island~.

the

OFFICERS:

Burton Whitcomb, Master,
Harry Thompson Newman, Chaplain,
Cavite, P. I.
Max Frederick Bathke, Sen. Deac.,
Emanuel Valmas, Sen. Tf'arden,
Patrick Daniel Grath, Jun. Deacon,
James Frederick Richardson, J. W. Charles Gustave Cornell, Marshal,
Camillus Judson Talliaferro, Treas., John Hugh McDonald, Steward,
William Engelbertus Wichman, Sec., Joseph Barney Trautner, Steward,
Cavite, P. I.
Alfred Woodruff, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barto, Paul Levi
Holmgren, Valdemar Louis
Bathke, Max Frederick
Jerome, James Barry
Bennyhoff, James Roy
Jorgensen, Alfred Kristian
Braman, Harry Johnson, P. M.
Karle, Harry
Breson, John Viggo Siguald
King, Nelson Ransom
Brown, Harlie Hiram
La Vanway, Merton Joseph
Brown, Henry Francis
Lewis, Frank
Burnham, Walter William
Lindberg, Alfred John
Burns, Edward
MacDonald, John Hugh
Clapp, Leander Alston
McKeehan, Lyman Prentice
Copassaki, Andrew Nicholas
Meriwether, Henry Thornton
Cornell, Chas. Gustave
Mitchell, Mason Edward, P. M.
Cowan, John William
Newman, Harry Thompson
Coyne, James Matthew
Nygard, Carston
Crouch, Edward
O'Connell, John
Dilks, Isaac Carter
0 'Harra, Edwin Lee·
Dobson, Brainerd Murat
Perry, Frank WHliam
Dupea, Wilford . Charles
Peterson, Chester Aubrey
Ely, Clyde Baldwin
Pierce, James Louis
Evans, George Blaine
Purrucker, Fritz Charles
Fedak, Albert Louis
Reh, Otto Emil
Forrest, Oa'ldey
Richardson, Jam es Fred 'k
Hamilton, Ralza Benjamin
Riggin, Alexander
Hammond, :El_rnest Harris
Rocker, George
Hamner, Edward Chambers, Jr.
Rutledge, J ohu Fife
Henrichsen, Oscar Gustav
Sainsburry, Joseph Edwin

ROSTER

596,
Schoon, Peter John Cristian
Shaw, James Russel
Smith, Frank Otto
Smith, William George
Snell, Edgar Wright
Spear, Ray
Svenesen, John
Taliaferro, Camillus Judson
Taylor, Charles Glading
Valmas, Emanuel, P. M.
Seibert, Frederiak Carl
Smith, Charles Bruce

Vaughan, Reuben Vance
Weigel, Ernst
Welcome, Earl Howard
Whitcomb, Burton, P. M.
Wilcomb, Owen Vietor
Wilson, Frank
Wichman, Wm. Engelb.ertus, P. M.
W oodru:l'I', Alfred
Woods, Paul M.
-71
WITHDRAWN:
Merkt, Adolph Julius
Whitten, Arthur Mervyn

SUSPENDED FOR . NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cochrane, David Melville

Olin, Louis
Olsen, Valdemar
DIED:
Spillman, Edward Thomas

Hardy, William

PALESTINE LODGE, No. 351.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meeting8, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Wakeling, Chaplain,
Robert Payson Tuttle, Master,
Harry Melville Cain, Sen. D eacon,
543 E. Thirty-first Street.
Paul Hyney, Jun·ior Deaco11,
Joseph Stevens, Senfor Warden,
Frank Albert Hamilton, Jun. Ward., Frederick Thomas Hughes, MarshoJ,
J ohnson Atkinson, Steward,
Albert Chas. Winter, Treasurer,
Elmer Ellsworth Bradley, Secretary, Arthur Bert Copeland, Steward,
J acob Edward Goetz, Tyler.
1434 E. Adams Street.

Ackland, James Leonard
Akey, James Vernon
Alger, Duncan
Allen, Ethan Ray
Ashby, James Charles
Atkinson, Johnson
Bagnall, Albert Edward

MEMBERS:
Baish, Henry Luther
Ballard, Arthur Wm.
Ba ndy, John Charley
Bartlett, Morrie Oliver G.
Baskerville, Charles Albert
Bawtenheimer, Chas. Lanson
Beck, Wnrren Penn

ROSTER
Best, Jas. T.
Eastin, Ernest Eugene
Black, Frederick Rufus
Eddy, George Sigel
Blott, William Leander
Eddy, Joseph Roderick
Blum, Solomon
Ehlers, Peter William
Bockway, George Henry
Elwell, William Henry
Boesen, Peter Thorwald
Emerson, William Albee
Dolton, Albert Edward
Evans, Charlel!I William
Bosserman, David Wernick, P. M. Faust, Mahlon Ellsworth
Bradley, Elmer Ellsworth
Feller, George Willard
Brakebill, Bruno
Flammer, Paul Ernest
Brazil, Manuel Fred 'k
Fondersmith, Addes Henry
Brock, George
Foster, Edward Ware
Brown, Frederick Henry
Fox, Willard Henry
Bryant, William Franklin
Fretz, Edwin Henry
Burnell, Chas. Smith
Fullerton, George Herbert
Cain, Andrew Henry
Goetz, Jacob Edward
Cain, Harry Melville
Goodrich, Edwin G.
Califan, Ferdinand
Gordan, Isaac Carl
Carter, Marion Davis
Gowen, Samuel Henry, P. M,
Cas\ly, Walter P .
Grant, James Cameron
Chambers, Joseph Fleiechman, P. M. Gray, Albert
Chase, Bert Conwell
.
Green, George Simons
Church, Reuben Sylvester
Greenwood, Albert
Clark, Ashford Woodward
Haas, Walter Francie, P. M.
Clark, Thomas Tedford
Hamerlund, John Peter Nelson
Clay, Ernest Byron
Hamilton, Frank Albert
Clifford, Chas. Edward
Hancock, Walter Edward
Cohen, Abraham Louis
Haughton, Albert Scott
Cole, William E .
Hart, Howard Edward
Colwell, Louie Trowbridge
Harwood, Robert John
Cook, Charles Henry
Havens, Edward Morton
Cooper, Frank Searles
Havil, Fred H.
Cooper, William Wallace
Heard, Isaac Stephen
Conrad, Hartwig
Henck, Ellery Longshore
Copeland, Arthur Bert
Henderson, Andrew
Corum, William Thompson
Heywood, Clay Henry
Corwin, Harley George
Hoagland, Robert Stout
Couser, Richard
. Hodgee, Thomas Victor
Curtis, George Elmer
Holm, Geo. Hanson
Danielson, Anton
Horne, William Anthony
Davies, Chas. Edward
Houston, Edwin Lee
Davis, Jas. Sullivan
Huber, Julius Edmu:t!.d, P. M.
Dickey, Arthur Meod
Hughes, ·Charles Ed.
Downie, Emerson Jame1
Hughes, Fred 1k Thomas
Dunham, James Almond
Huntet, Harry Tracy

597

598

· ROSTER

Hunter, Howarrl Moore
Hutton, Chas. Preston
Hyney, Paul
lnman, William Charles
Jaffe, Harry Edward
Jensen, Alfred Theo.
Jepson, Arthur Lucius
Jepson, John Augustus
Johnson, Alfred B.
Johnson, Charles
Johnson, Frank L.
Johnson, Emil Esaias
Johnson, Swan Peter
Jones, Thos. Cook
Jordan, Jas. Henry .
Jordan, Zachariah Thomas
Judd, Marvin DeLos
Judkins, Louis Crane
Jurdon, Albert Leonard
Johnston, John Story
Kelly, Charles Leonard
Kemp, Robert Walter
Kessler, George Henry
Kleinkauf, Samuel Ernest
Knoll, Theodore
Kornblum, Morris Samuel
Kreider, Samuel Leander
Kuhfus, Wm. Aloysius
Leibrock, John
Leighton, William Henry
Lloyd, Henry John
Lowe, Perry Benton
Maas, Otto Martin Adolf
Marshall, Clifford David
Martin, Jesse R.
Mason, Edwin Horatio
Maxcy, William George
McCabe, Henry Debasco, P. M.
McConnell, Otis Levy
McCue, Jae. Benton
McDonald, Daniel Joseph
McDona.ld, Frank Virgil
McDonald, Thomas Joseph, P. M.
McDonaugh, Sidney ·Roy
McKinnie, Frederick ·Campbell

Mears, Benjamin Franklin
Mendell, George Herkimer
Miller, Arthur Edward
Miller, E<lmund Alexander
Miller, Frank Eugene
Millor, Thomas N.
Millsap, Edmund Moise
Millsap, Sylvester
Morrison, William Ross
Morton, Charles Edward
Nathan, Morris
Neel, John Henry
Negley, Adelbert Miles
Nicholson, Thomas Jessup
Nielson, Christian
Overell, Walter Edward
Owen, Theo. Powell
Parsons, Arthur Clair
Partridge, Harvey
Patterson, George Robert
Pedgrift, George
Pennington, Norman Augustu1
Pepping, Charles William
Perine, Stephen Henry
Peterson, Anton
Peterson, Louis Nathaniel
Piepgrass, James Peter
Pind, Nels
Power, Charles Ora
Raymaker, William Arnold
Reed, Burt Warren
Reinen, Otto Frank, P. M.
Reitz, Frank Aaron W.
Rich, Levi D.
.Richards, Charles Albert
Rfohardson, Fred Thomas
Roberts, Richard Gorony
Robertson, Carl
.
Robertson, Herleef Richard
Robertson, Victor Holger
Robey, Floyd Franklin
Rollins, Fred Aaron
Rodriguez, Oberlin•
Rubine, Benj. ,,Jacob
Russill, Hen~ .. Davis

ROSTER
Ruston, Ernest Samuel
Sams, Peter W.
Samuel, Frederick David
Scherer, Oliver Franklin
Scullin, Harry Robbins
Sharp, George W.'
Sherer, Robert
Shoemaker, Walter Phinny
Sledd, Warner Alfred, P. M.
Smith, Edward Henry
Smith, John Clayton
Smith, William Henry
Sonderegger, Arthur L.
Sporledor, Robert
Sparks, Charles Orvill
Starr, Elmer Moses
Stead, James Robert
Stevens, Joseph
Stevens, Mark
Stewart, John A. C.
Stoddard, Frank Wilcox
Strouse, Louis Alva
Sumption, Frederick Albert
Suter, John
Tate, Albert Kyle
Taylor, John Lees
Thacker, Frank L.
Thom, Sewell Watson
Thomas, Ernest G.

Adamson, Louis Frederick

Thompson, Frank Slusher
Tinklepaugh, Ray Deoerne
Townsend, Geo. Albert
Trapani, Vincent S.
Tubbs, Perley Clifton
Tucker, Edwin Burke
Tuttle, Jesse
Tuttle, Robert Payson
Tyler, Martin Rich
Van Vranken, David Able
Waggoner, Charles Henry
Wakeling, Samuel
Watkins, Albert Berline
Welsh, Clifford Durham
Wheeler, Arthur James, P. M.
Wherry, Daniel Van Atta
Wilson, Lawrence Grover
Wilso~, R. Walter
Wilson, Thomas Leonidas
Winter, Albert Charles
Wolf, Christian
Wolfe, Frank Eddy
Womersley, George Frederick
Woodworth, Theo. Whitingham
Worline, Oliver Cline
· Wride, Frank George
Wright, Thomas H.
Yount, Charles Edwin
Zimmerman, Joseph E.
-252

WITHDRAWN:
Brown, William Lundy
Wood, Wiiliam Bell

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Civille, Leroy Henry
Nichol, George Samson
.McDonald, Walter James
Tracy, James William
Tracy, Charles Clifton

Bell, James William

,599

DIED:
Heineman, Maurice

600

ROSTER

ROSTER

SUNSET LODGE, No. 352.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Gardner Stafford, Chaplain,
Lewis Ludlow Haight, Sen. Deacon,
Wickliffe Matthews, Jun. Deacon,
Hobart Marshall Thatcher, Marshal,
Charles Andrew Blair, Steward,
Gideon Wells Granger, Steward,
Eugene Leonard Titus, Tyler.

George Edwin Delavan, Jr., Master,
411 Germain Building.
Hugh Gill Shaug, Senior Warden,
Christian Nelson Bank, Jun. Ward.,
Rollie Webster Miller, Treasurer,
Elliott Stacy Rogers, Secretary,
1238 New Hampshire Street.

MEMBERS:
Brock, Edward Ivory
Ackworth, William
Brome, Harrison Crosby
Aisenpries, John Fred
Brouse, Allen McDonald
Aitken, Paul Benj.
Bruflat, Martin
Armstrong, Ambroee Hatvey
Brumbacker, Julius Ernest
Baker, Milo Arnet
Burgess, Frederick William
Ballard, Earl Blakeley
Burke, Samuel Edgerton, P. M.
Bank, Charles
Burkhart, Henry W.
Bank, Christian Nelson
Burrows, Robert Hughston
Barclay, Henry Augustus
Burson, Albert Lewis
Battelle, Ernest Leslie
Capeto, James Orin
Beauchamp, Hiram Frederick
Carter, Frank Edward
Beresford, Charles Tristrain
Carter, John Maurice
Biggs, Elmer Le Roy
Carter, Paul Courtney
Blair, Charles Andrew
Chamberlain, John Joseph
Blair, Luther .Reed
Chapman, James
Blocker, Wm. Edgar
Chase, Elwood Norton
Bonenberger, Wilbur Earl
Chase, Ralph Arthur, P. M.
Bones, Fred Wells
Chase, Taylor
Booth, Francis
Chesworth, Joseph Reginald
Bovard, Joseph Henderson
Clark, John Beaver, P. M.
Bower, Niles Frank
Clatwotthy, William E.
Bowler, John Dunlap
Clemens, James Henry
Brand, Louis
Clemens, Nicholas Ernest
Brasher, Horace Clyde
Colby, William Wallace
Brasher, Russell John
Coles, Edward Augustus
Brasher, William Floyd
Conlee, Monroe Harold
Bridges, Charles Henry, P. M.
Conkling, James L.
Bridges, Charles William
Connell, John Francis
Bridges, George Horton

I

Cooper, Daniel W.
Copeland, Gl~n Hall
Courser, Charles Henry
Craig, Gavin William
Crandall, Edward A.
Crouch, George Andrew
Crow, John Channlng
Cunningham, Wm. Price
Danbury, Albert M.
Davies, James Lloyd
Davis, Herman Todd
Deeble, William Davie
De La Matyr, Nathan Henry
Delavan, George Edward, Jr.
Denison, Roy Oliver
Dillon, Tom Augulltlie
Dodd, Nathan Thomas
Donze, Leon Jacque
Dossell, John
Dow, George Rufus Shetler
Duncan, George Nolan
Dunn, George LaFayette
Durfee, Rafael Burke
Eccles, Cloudy Morning
Eitelgoerge, William Frederick
Elder, Earl Bayard
Eley, Allison
Ericson, Knute Napoleon
Faithfull, Claud Augustus
Farmer, Edward Lewis
Faulkner, Alfted Granville
Fechtig, John Freanor
Finlay, James
Fiorini, Francis
Fishburn, Warren Perry
Ford, Harry Derwood,
Foultz, Joseph Long
Fox, William Poland
Franken, Robert
Frick, Moses Light
Frost, Howard
Fuicks, David
Fulmis, Marin Derwood
Gaddie, Henry Al'Vin
Garland, Fred Augustine

Garver, William Merrell
Guthrie, Robel't Allen
Graham, Owen Elie
Granger, Gedeon Wells
Graul, Harry Silas
Gray, Samuel
Gregory, George W.
Gripp, Edwin Adelbert
Gripp, Uris Robert
Gunnison, Charle& William
Haight, Lewis Ludlow
Hanson, Charles Frederick
Hanson, Gotfred
Hardage, James Madison
Harding, .John Brent
Hardy, Fred
Harnish, William
Hastings, Oliver Allen
Hatch, William Kinersley
Haynes, Elmer Eugene
Hearn, John Walter
Heinecke, William Barker
Helms, Wm . Thomas
Henderson, William
Hicks, Virgil Escho
Higham, Arthur Clarence
Hillman, Delmar Orrin
Hillman, Edward William
Hodges, Jonathan
Holzman, Alexander Abraham
Hooks, Daniel C.
Hopkins; Charles Henry
Hubner, William Fred
Huggins, Walter Leelie
Hunt, John Edwin
Iles, Harry
Ivens, Frederick Ballard
James, Wm. L.
James, William Petty
,Jenkins, Richard Willett
Jensen, Henry Christian
Johnson, John
Johnson, John Dedrick
.Tones, David E.
Jones, Richard Gordon

601

602

Jordon, Leander Richard
Kelley, William Pliney
Kelsey, Dean Stanley
Kelsey, Ralph Henry
' Kimball, Duane Appleton
Kirkby, Mark
Klitten, Karl Andrais
Knox, Albert Jerome
Lackland, Norman
Lacroix, John Francis
Lagro, Knute
Latham, Charles Albert
Lerrigo, George
Leake, Francis Marion, Jr.
Lepoids, Paul Emile
Logan, Walter Herbert
Lozier, Howard Albert
Lutts, James Everett
Macdonald, James Enon
Manchester, Frank Leon
Marsh, Reese Bradford
Martin, Le Roy
Martin, William W.
Matthews, Harry Edwin
Matthews, Wickliffe
McCune, Leroy Verne
McDonald, George Washington .
McGuire, Martin Samuel
McLaughlin, William F.
McLeod, John Munro
McVicar, James Wm.
Mercer, Edgar
Miller, Charles Henry
Miller, Chas. Otto
Miller, Guy James
Miller, Orroe.e Vernon
Miller, Rollie Webster
Miller, Wm. A very
Miles, Geo. Francis
Minton, Edward Dunne
Mister, Lloyd Holland
Moeller, Albert Herbert
Moore, Fred Badger
Morris, Fred 'k Wm.
Morgan, Charles Thomas

ROSTER
Morgan, Don De Witt
Morris, Charles Hensley S.
Mort, Albert Cliffton ·
Murdock, Louis, P. M.
Murray, Alex. Leslie
Musser, Roy Robert
Myers, Algernon David
Nelson, Alfred
Neustadt, Jacob
Newberry, Frank John
Nikievich, Radosau Nikola
Nye, Berthold Max
Ordway, Frederick Marques
Orlijan, Samuel
Osborne, Fred Wm.
Osmun, Sidgewick Ziba, P. M.
Osmun, Silas Cook, P. M.
Ostrom, Harzy Mapes
Otto, Fred Wellington
Peachy, Frederick Stoddard
Peet, Dale Owen, P. M.
Peters, Clifton
Pierce, Frederick Eugene
Pollard, Earl Royal
Prior, Arthur Havelock
Quist, Claus August
Ramsey, George James
Rand, Clinton, DeWitt
Rawling, Wm. James
Reagan, John Joseph
Redfern, Edmund Austin
Reed, Morton Crew
Rhodes, John Albert
Rice, Bruce Viers
Riggs, Eugene Albert ·
Riley, Daniel Pike
Roberts, John Ernest
Rodgers, Harry Day
Rogers, Elliott Stacy
Rogers, Lawrence Lavern
Rommol, John Calvin
Rommel, Samuel Edward
Ross, Percy Wallace
Sawyer, Edmund Ogden
Schaefle, John Martin

ROSTER

603

Schilling, Frank Charles
Templeman, William
Scott, Alfred James, Jr.
Thatcher, Hobart Marshall
Seales, Corbley L.
Thomas, Orsen Theo.
See, Job~ Warren
Thompson, Ashley Spencer
Seivert, Geo. Washington
Tilden, William Frederick
Shaug, Hugh Gill
Titus, Eugene Leonard
·Sheppard, Arthur Leon
Toland, Geo. Bernard
Shirey, Francis Marion
Townsend, Elisha Waters
Siemer, Henry
Trail, John William
Simons, Nathan
Truitt, Burton Hezlip
Singer, John
Upp, George B.
Singtelon, D. Arnold
Van Fleet, Joseph Charles
Smiley, Arnold Bennett
Vaughan, Chas. Talom
Smith, Cyrus Donald
Von Weber, George
Smith, George Loomis
Wachtel, Wm. Henry
Snyder, Aaron
Ward, George Melvin
Sook, Justus Frederick
White, Laertes Tayler
Spangler, David Etherington
Whitice, Robert Doll
Stafford, James Gardner
Willard, Arthur Gay
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
Willy, Marion Francis
Stobo, Isaac Albert
Williams, Edwin Morrill, P. M.
Stokes, Robert
Wilson, Frank
St. Pierre, Zenas W.
Wilson, Oliver Samuel
Sutherland, David Munroe, P. M. Young, James Holden
Sutton, Roy Ira
Ziegler, Rayder James
Swayer, Edmund Ogden, Jr.
Zimmerman, George W.
-290
WITHDRAWN:
Allen, Harold Ernest
Howard, Horace Emery

Leighton, Luther W.
Nelson, Charles Oscar

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cook, Milo Rowland
Johnson, Henry Samuel
Crego, Cl~ude Myles
Kirkpatrick, John Reid
Collier, William Boliver
Rudel, Charles August
Dartt, John Lieb
Winton, Orlum Russell
Fiske, William Kingslow
Walters, Reuben
Harris, John Tyrrel

DIED:
Smock, Ephraim Howard

ROSTER

ROSTER

PINOLE LODGE, No. 353.
Pinole, Contra Costa. County.
Stated Meetinas, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Pfeiffer, Master,
Pinole, Cal.
Stephen Johnston, Senior .if'arden,
Henry McCullough, J u11ior W ardeK,
, Edward Wade Robison, Treasurer,
John Warren Townes, Secretary,
Pinole, Cal.
Bacon, William Thom11s
Barrett, John Peter
Barrett, William Henry
Bermingham, John, Jr.
Bleuler, Emil
Brandt, Frederick John
Carr, Edward Moon
Catlett, Theo. Scott, P. M.
Chaquette, Ephram Charle•
Cooper, Clinton Clifford
Daniels, Frederick Hugo
Davies, Thomas
Downer, Edward M.
Downer, John Byron
Downing, Fred Parsons
Ebson, Edward Christian
Ellerhorst, Christopher
Ellerhorst, Henry Herman
Emery, Elliott Gifford
Engel, Otto Herman
Engelbret, Niles Swenson
Enloe, Joseph Valley, P. M.
Evans, Levi
Ewing, George
Fernandez, Thomas Benito
Fraser, George Whittier
Fraser, John Alexander
Gerrish, William Campbell
Grant, J ames Jackson

William Berry McKenzie, Chaplain,
John Stuart Shaw, Sen. Deacon,
William Louis Hansen, luK. Deacon,
William Campbell Gerrish, Marsha./,
James Waters Piequet, St11ward,
Herbert Van Prooyen, Steward,
Emil Bleuler, Tyl.er.

MEMBERS:
Greenfield, Abraham, P. M.
Hall, Joh11 Charles Fremont, P. M.
Hamilton, Antlrew Jackson, P. M.
Hansen, Wm. Louis
Hanson, James Wm.
Hanson, William
Harris, William Woodson
Hayes, Phineas Durkey
Hitch, Abraham
Holiday, Charles Hiram
Horne, George
Hunt, Horice Edward
Hunt, Rolland Charles
Jackson, Walter Hunt, P. M.
Johnston, Stephen
ltemline1 Ludwig
Lehman, Max
Lehmkuhl, Chas. F. Christian
Mann, Joseph
Mann, Robert
Mann, William Hodson
Marx, Joseph Sidney
Marx, Sidney Straus
McCullough, Henry
McDee, James Thomas
McDonald, Frederick
McDonald, Ralph Ernest
McKenzie, William Berry, P. ll/I,
McKinley, Samuel Stuart

Mendelsohn, Philip N.
Murphey, Raymoµd Cornelius
Page, Ernest H.
Patterson, Charles Adam
Pfeiffer, William Jennings
Pfeiffer, George
Piquet, Joseph Waters
Poinsett, Howard B.
Prentice, William Judson
Race, Albe:rt A.
Ri ce, DeWitt Talmage
Robison, Edward Wade, P. M.
Ruff, Carl Frederick
Garland, Fred Augustus

605

Sharp, Sank Yance
Shaw, John Stuart
Sill, Frederick Addi&on
Stevens, Brainard Wyman
Swenson, Andrew John
Thode, Rudolph Nfoolas
Towne11, John Warren
Van Prooyn, Cornelius
Van Prooyen, Harlert
Viano, Bernarto
Walker, George Cleveland
Woy, Theodore W.
-83

WITHDRAWN:
Herry, Robert Leopold

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lumsden, William John

PRESIDIO LODGE, No. 354.
San franc1sco, San Francisco County.
Statetl Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:

Clarence Maxwell Cheney, Master, Herman Locks, Chaplain,
294 Eighth Avenue.
John Edward Bufterfield, S en. Deac:,
William J oseph Weitzenberg, S. W., John Henry W ellmann, Jun. Dtac.,
John Berthold Wuersching, l. Ward., Johnson Schall B. Smith, Marsha l,
Andrew Jackson Vining, Treasurer, Robert Alexander Ritchie, Steward,
Benjamin Loring Hesseltine, Sec.,
Calvin Salvatore Grandi, Steward,
1416 Polk Street.
Frank George Watson, Tyler.

Ackerman, Harry William
Adams, P ercy Townend
Allen, George William
Altvater, Wm. Frederick
Andornetti, Paul
Baker, Thomas Leonard
Baldwin, Marshall Shires ·
Barker, Heney

MEMBERS:
Barker, Robert Wm.
Batcher, John Henry
Bawden, Charles Edgar
Bemmerer, Henry August
Bertram, Geo. A..
Blanchard, Cortland J.
Blauer, Walter Maynard
Boivin, Louis Edmond, P. M.

606

Bouick, William Hood
Bowes, Alfred
Bowley, Argel Levere
Boxton, Charles Wynell
Boxton, George Wynell
Boyd, William James
Bridgeford, Frederick Garrett
Brodersen, Wm. Edwin
Burt, Benjamin Walter
Burt, William Henry
Butterfield, John Ed.
Butterworth, John_Barlow
Caldwell, Samuel
Caler, Frederick Edward
liiunpana, Pietro Sebaatia11.
Campbell, Archibald
Carson, George Washington
Carswell, William Ross
Charleton, Reginald Earl
Cheney, Clarence Maxwell
Clarke, Wm.
Cobb, George Douglas
Coggins, Herman Appleton
Coggins, Raymond Boynton
Cole, Fak William, Jr.
Cooke, George Warren
Cooley, Aaron Riley
Cowden, James Bowes
Crowley, David, Jr.
Culver, Walter Henry
Damon, Henry Jacob
Davis, Roy Hartwell
Denke, E<lmund Herman
De Young, Irving A.
Dillon, Charles Monroe
Dittman, Frank
Dye, Marcus Brutus
Emerson, Charles Mason
Emerson, George Waldo
Engle, Howard Sterling
Engle, Walter J.
Epperson, Sidney Roswell
Ericsson, Joseph Edwar·j
Ernst, Carl Frederick
Estes, William Edward

ROSTER
Feundeling, Louis W.
Fisher, Charles Douglas
Fleischer, Ernest Custer
Franzen, Frederick
Fuson, Amandus Ulysses
Gallagher, Hugh Patrick
Gallagher, Joseph
Gaskill, Varney William, P. M.
Gibbs, Harry Throckmorton
Glennie, John Burke, P. M.
Gomersal, Fergus
Goman, John Geo.
Graham, John. Waldron
Greenwell, James Oliver
Grier, Robert Arthur, P. M.
Grunig, George
Gwinn, William Madison
Hardy, Frederick Alden
Hartter, Alfred Max
Harwood, Albert Oliver
Haslehurst, Oscar Alvinza
Hatter, Joseph Alex.
Helgesen, Nelson Rodvelt
lielms, George Leo
Hemmer, Henry
Herbst, A.
Hesseltine, Benjamin I.oring
Hilbert, Frederick Henry
Hobro, Alfred Watson
Hobro, Fre<lerick Sylvain
Hobro, James Louis
Hobro, Lester Frank
Hobro, William Dovey, Jr.
Holt, Clarence Pitman
Homburg, Martin Julius
Hu!T, William Conrad
Huggins, Walter Samuel
Ingermann, Albert Lewis
Jackson, Frank Mason, P. M.
Jackson, Frank Ringo
Jacobsen, Christian Theo. Fred.
Jansson, George August
Jensen, Royal Theodor
Jensen, Theo cl ore Rasmus
,Johnson, Arthur William

ROSTER
Johnson, Eric Ragnor
Johnson, Otto Bernhard
,Johnson, "Thomas Arthur
Keator, Robert Stone
Kelly, George Francis
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Kelly, John Harold
Kinsman, John Raymond
Klute, Henry Louis
Knight, Carlton R.
Knowles, Ned Lewis
Koch, Walter Valentine
Kreft, Henry
Kroger, Frederick Claus
Krugar, Charles Frederick
Kunder, John
Kyle, Joseph
Lackeman, .C harles Emil
Lauterback, Edmund
Lear, Fre<lerick, Jr.
Le Crosse, Felix Bergamont
Leonard, John Vaughan
Leu, Matthias Adolph J.
Lewis, Chester Owen
Locke, Frank Stanwood
Locks, Carl Henry
Locks, George Herman
Locks, Herman, P. M.
Lomas, James
Long, Charles Henry
Manchester, Paul Henry
Marshall, Warren Gove
Martin, Jesse Chester
Mason, Arthur Calvin
Mason, Frank
Mason, Paul Willia'll
McCormick, .Robert
McGowan, Robert
McMillan, Alfred Ernest
Miller, George Herman
Milton, Louis Bern'h ard
Mohr, Rudolph
Molin, Victor Rinhold
Moore, George Ransome
Moore, John

Morcom, Fred Nicholas
Morrice, Thomas Brown
Morse, George William1 Jr,
Moyle, James William
McKevitt, Frank
McKevitt, Hugh King, P. M.
McKevitt, Thomas Eugene
Nelson, Charles A.
Obradovich, Metar
Obradovich, Nicholas
· Orchard, Seldon
Partridge, Newton Edgar
Payne, Clyde Sylvenus
Pinney, Lewis Owen
Plowman, Walter
Prechtel, George Philipp
Radcliff, George
Rader, George Oliver
Reed, Warren Stedman
Reimers, Louis
Remensperger, Herman Walter
Rice, Albert Everett
Ritchie, Robert Alex.
Rob~rts, Leonard Vance
Rolls, Edwin Lacey
Roussel, William Herbert
Sandy, George Howard
Schroder, Henry Andrew
Schuhmann, Anton Emil, P. M.
Schuhmann, August Max
Sedgley, Harry Timothy
Sherman, William Albert, P. M.
Signor, Raphael E.
Smith, Francis Gilbert
Smith, Frank Edward
Smith, Fred Lawrence
Smith, Johnson Scholl B.
Smith, Walter Egerton
Speers, William Alex.
Sresovich, John Nicholas
Starling, Andrew John
Starr, Edward Charles
Steed, David Mark
Stein, George Walter
Stewart, John Gilman

607

ROSTER

608

Strand, William Francis
Strohmeier, Otto
Teal, Eugene Bercher
Tellefsen, John Cornelion
Tennis, Henry Chris
Thomas, Alvin J.
Thomas, Coryedon Clark.
Thomas, Verlin C.
Thomason, Frank
Tidell, Andrew Gustaf, Jr.
Tippett, Thomas
Toye, William Osbourne
Trailer, Lewis Clinton, P. M.
Trezise, John Samuel
Trull, Charles Bert
Ubbe, Ludwig
Valdespino, Henry Carlos
Vane, Le Roy H.
Vaughan, William Weaver

Ames, George Wesley
*Fitzwater, John Edley

Vining, Andrew Jackson
Walker, George Henry, Jr.
Walker, Joseph Hamilton
Ward, Charles Henry
Watson, Frank George, P. M.
Watson, Kenneth
Wedekind, Frank F.
Winslow, Arthur C.
Weeks, John Francis
Weitzenberg, Wn:,.. Fred. Joseph
Wellmann, Henry John
Wetzel, Theodore, Jr.
Wetzel, Theodore, Sr.
White, Henry James
Wilkinson, Eli J.
Williams, Ralph E.
Woodward, Horace
Wooley, George Al:fred
Wuersching, John Barthold
-234

WITHDRAWN:
Marsh, Alonzo Ralph
Pennington, Percy George .

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Borges, Joseph Fearney
Hubbard, John Minkel
Daniels, Richard Earl
Kipp, Joseph Henry
Denke, August Reinhold
Kipp, Matthew E.
Plagemann, Walter Otto H.

Graham, George

DIED:
Hearn, William Amil

tDegrees conferred during the year.

ROSTER

600

HOLLYWOOD LODGE, No. 355.
Hollywood, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Meredith Talmadge Spencer, Master, Albert Edward Merrill, Chaplain,
William Wallace Anderson, Sen. D.,
Sherman, Cal.
Charles Edward Toberman, Sen. W., Robert Roy Rankin, Ju,.. Deacon,
Nelson Edward Woodward, Jun. W., William Adam Meusch, Marshal,
Edward William Fox, Steward,
J olm Eugene Law, Treasurer,
Dudley Frank Biack, Steward,
Almon Reno Gates, Secretary,
6756 Hollywood Building.
George Jarvis Graham, Tyler.

Adler, David
Alber, Herman
Allen, Russell Joseph
Aldritt, John Allen
Anderson, Charles
Anderson, William W.
Andrews, Clarence Carleton
Andrews, Howard
Baake, Herman Louis, P. M.
Bakman, Charlie Henry
Bardwell, Horatio John
Barnes, George Henry
Bartels, Arnold
Barter, Henry James
Beaman, Alex. Gaylord
Beesmyer, Gilbert H.
Beggs, Hugh Hardin
Berry, Bennett Burnett
Bidwell, George Franklin
Blette, Edward Henry
Boag, Charles Edward, P. M.
Boehncke, George
Bradley, Samuel Haselett
Bynon, Frederick Silas, P. M.
Cammett, Ira Allen
Chamberlain, James B.
Clark, Herbert F.
Clarke, Watts
39

MEMBERS:
Claussenius, Carl Henry
Coleman, John Winfred
Cook, James Tod
Cooks, Walter Cyrus
Crane, Ralph Cassius
Crissey, Charles A.
Daniels, Rollo Wilson
n11.virlson, Amstruther
Davies, Arthur Evan
Davis, Sylvester Byron
Day, John Pinkney, P. M.
Dennis, Oliver Perry
· Desmond, Frank Conklin
Dick, John
Douglass, Frank M.
Douglass, Frank Malcolm
Douglass, Joseph Montgomery
Dunlap, George Howard
Dunscomb, Jay Luther
Eastman, George Lockwood
Edwards, Benjamin Clarence
Ehlers, Paul Henry
Elliott, Edwin Windsor
Emery, Nathaniel Royal
Erwin, Alex. Rogers .
Evans, John William
Exley, Fred George
Ferry, Francis Charles, P. M.

610
Ferry, Louis
Fife, Norman Thompson
Fiscus, Marshall D.
Fisher, Edison
Fox, Edward William
Frese, Arthur
Frieburg, Carl A.
Gardner, Allan
Gates, Almon · Reno
Gehrkins, William H.
Glass, Clement Studebaker
Glass, Edwin Marshall
Goodwin, Donald Phinney
Goodwin, Henry Pooley
Graham, George Jarvis
Grass, Joseph Fernand
Green, Jesse Benjamin
Greenwood, Geo. Gibson
Gregg, Lloyd William
Griffith, Percival Howard
Grove, Iredell Allen
Gulley, James M.
Haas, Charles E.
Hampton, Ellis Clark
Hance, Frank Webster
Hanna, George
Hanson, Harry Webster
Harowitz, Alexander
Harper, Benjamin William
Harratt, Edwin
Harrison, Claude Eugene
Heigold, George Henry, Jr.
Heinig, Theo., P. M.
Hinckley, Guy Barton
Hoover, Frank Sheridan
Hopper, Wm. Henry
Howell, Clarence Walter
Howland, Frederic Charles
Hubbard, Joseph R.
·
Hunter, James Milo
Jackman, Florin B.
Jackson, Joseph Addison
Jackson, Walter Arnold
Jacobs, Benjamin Franklin
Jepson, Jacob

ROSTER
Johnson, Bernard Carl
Johnson, Guy G.
Jorgenson, John Christian
Ken.n edy, Benjamin Edward
Kenner, Clayton W.
Kincaid, James Leslie
Kirby, William Fishback
Kirkpatrick, Geo. Bertram
Kleinkauf, William Henry
Koehler, Charles Frederick
Knowles, Charles Michel
Knox, John
Kuhlman, Frederick August
Law, John Eugene
Leask, James
Letts, Arthur
Lingo, George, P. M.
Mackenzie, Marvin Lincoln
Mallette, Charles Ernest
Marsh, Howard E.
Maxwell, John
May, Frederick William
McCabe, Herbert Louis
McCoy, Lewis R.
McCray, Louis A.
McKee, Wm. Edgar
Mead, William
Melcher, Howard Wash.
Mensch, Wm. Adam
Merrill, Albert Eugene
Merrill, Monroe E.
Miles, George Bishop
Miller, Edward William
Miller, Louis D.
Milner, Robert Virgin
Mish, Robert Coleman
Monson, Olaf
Moore, Ola
Morck, Thowald
Morgan, Gtircl.on Thomas
Morris, Frederic I.
Naff, Clarence Raymond
Neary, Chas. Edward
Pates, Clarence
Palmer, Edwin Obadiah

ROSTER
Patterson, Gilbert Curne
Pedgrift, Samµel Ernest
Pierce, Charles Merritt
Postell, Phillip Smith
Purdy, Ernest Ralph
Pursell, William Fox
Rankin, Robert Roy
Redden, Loring Alton
Redwine, Hiram Green
Reynolds, Wilfred T.
Rich, Sanford
Rodenhouse, Harry Edward
Rupp, John
Ryland, Edwin P .
Sanford, Benj. Franklin
Schloesser, Alex. Rudolph
Schloesser, Alfred Guido R.
Scho~eld , Herbert
Shoenhair, George John
Smith, Calvin W.
Smith, William Edward
Snodgrass, Walter F.
Soiland, Albert
Spalding, William Brockhurst
Spear, Charles Nathan
Spencer, Meredith Talmage
Stadie, Rudolph R.
Stafford, James A.
Steacl.man, John Judson
Stephens, Albert Lee
Stevenson, Gilbert Field; P. M.

Stith, Frederick Walker
Strong, Andrew M.
Thayer, Oramel Franklin
Thompson, Percy W.
Techintin, Henry W.
Tibbot, John Wesley
Tindall, Wm. Francis
'foberman, Charles Ed.
Valdez, Alexander Aveline
Vickroy, Hugh Kennedy
Wabritz; Louis
Walton, Frank M.
Warnecke, Carl Marie
Wate.rbury, James Edwin
Waugh, Lionel Morgan
Weaver, Frank Ray
Weddington, Fred Rutledge
Whipple, Henry White
White, William Calhoun
Whitley, Hobart Johnston
Willson, Frank Lamb
Wilkerson, Harry Douglass
Wilson, Griffin W.
Wilson, Isaac Newton
Winnett, Percy Gle_n n
Winterer, Edward, P. M.
Wood, Charles Edward
Woodward, Nelson Ed.
Young, Moses
Young, Robert, P. M.

-207

WITHDRAWN:
Jchnson, Frank William
I'ogson, Robert M.

611

Settle, Dow L.
Townsend, William Henry

ROSTER

612

MILL VALLEY LODGE, No. 356.
Mill Valley, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Clinton Folger, Master,
George Maxwell, Chaplain,
Mill Valley, Cal.
Ludwig Clarence Koster, Sen. Deacois,
George Henderson Cook, Sen. Ward., Thomas Sidney Watters, Jun. Deacori,
Horace Coffin, Junior Warden,
Charles Jacob Brockhoff, Marshal,
Charles Harvey Huntoon, Treas.urer, Edwin Strong Merriman, Steward,
Leon Paul Van Att.a, Secretary,
Frederick Alex. Burden, Steward,
Mill Valley, Cal.
Ezeri R. Nichols, Tyler.

Ambrose, Oliver Stephens
Arnold, Wilhelm Fred 'k
Asmann, Adolph John
Baker, Warren Garfield
Becker, Christopher Henry
Becker, Philip Sherjdan
Beirao, Manuel Peireira, Jr.
Bostwick, Fran)!. Fiske
Bremer, Bernard Christian
Brockhoff, Charles Jacob
Brown, Charles Leslie
Bunker, Edward Abel
Bunker, Herbert Harding
Burden, Frederick Alex
Burt, John
Burt, Samuel Murdoch, P. M.
Bush, Alfred William
Cappelmann, Osear Cornelius
Carothers, Harrie William
Chase, James Vernon
Clark, Alfred Bernard
Cofer, Lorenzo Rich
Coffin, Alonzo, P. M.
Coffin, Horace
Cook, George Henderson
Cowper-Thwaite, Edwaril
Cox, Joseph George
Cox, Walter
Crumpton, Hezekiah John

MEMBERS:
De Lasaux, Percival James
Demmer, Mathew
De Sella, Leo
Donihue, Leon Mickle
Dorsey, Horace
Downs, Leonidas Windfield Scott
Eddy, Ralph Adair
Eisen, Edward George
Ensor, Henry Taylor
Evans, Ernest Albert
Findley, Frank Beatty
Finn; Charles Chamberlain
Finn, Robert Berkeley
Fleming, Willard Stephe!il
Folger, Clinton
Garcia, Manuel Rodgeri;
Gardner, Casper J.
Gardner, Leslie Jacob
Gold, Edward Eugene
Gray, William Benson
Greaves, Thomas Travis, P. M.
Grindley, William Cecil
Guth, Henry
Haake, Henry Charles
Harlan, George Hillary, P. M.
harries, Julian Digby
Hartsough, David
Hayden, Allen David
Helmore, Paul Algernon

ROSTER

613

Heydenfeldt, Frederick Ochtreigh
Pulliam, Elery Claude
Higgins, Frederick Ernest
Regan, Henry
Holmgren, Carl
Ritchie, William Lloyd
Howard, George
Robertson, William Andrew
Hunt, George Elliott
Roiir, Raymond James
Runyon, Charles Francis
Huntoon, Charles Harvey
Hustad, Paul Ludwig
Runyon, Frederick Francis
Jackson, Ernest Wedgwood
Saxton, James Geo., Jr.
Janes, George Jenkins
Schaubel, Elmer Henl'y
Janes, Louis Lyman, P. M.
Sehlingma:n, John Fred
Johnson, Harold Sydney
Sehvood, Fred'k Wm. Gordon, P. M.
Johnson, Harry Lee
Seymour, Kent Jarvis Chase, P . M.
Klyce, Harvey Asbury, P. M.
Shapley, Arthur Samuel
Koster, Ludwig Clarence
Shaw, Albert Victor
Lange, Mathias
Shaw, Clarence Reginald
LeBaron, Monte Ray
Shaw, Frederic Grant
Lilyard, Frederick William
Staples, Melvi.n
Linsley, Frederick Douglas
Stevens, Harry Osborn
Locke, Allan
Stocker, Charles Ellis
Lockwood, Frank Edgar
St. John, Chauncey Milton
Losh, Francis Adams
Struby, Carl Jacob
·
Mackenzie, Charles Fyfe
Stubergh, Otto Henry
Mackey, Henry Julius
Thomas, William Edward
Manzer, Lonson Martin
Thomas, William James
Maxwell, George
Thomsen, Daniel Webster
Mazza, John Joseph
Treat, Archibald Jennings
Melvin, Robert Luther
Urquhart, George Archibald
McConnell, Geo. Jae.
Urquhart, George Archibald, Jr.
l\fcLerran, Stanford Paul
Van Atta, Leon Paul
Merriman, Edwin Strong
Verdellet, Victor Leon
Mills, John
Wachs, Lionel
Morrow, William Grant
Ward, Roy Culver
Newlands, James, Jr., P. M.
Wall, Charles Joseph
Nichols, Ezeri R.
Watters, Thomas ~ydney
Norris, John Floyd
Westcott, Harry Blake
Nye, Douglas Arthur
Wetherell, Charles Elton
Noyes, Ira Ernest
Whitcomb, Bonner
Orr, Merle Sumner
Williams, Robert Barker
Parcell, Charles Henry
Wilson, Robert J\.rchie
Peters, Charles Henry Fred.
Wootten, John Edward
Pritchard, Alfred Henry
Wray, Alban Ernest
Pryor, Joseph Henry
Wright, Joseph
Pryor, Percy Church
Yost, Nicholas Peter
-144
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Miller, Allyn John
Smith, Arthur Emmett

ROSTER

ROSTER

BUENA PARK LODGE, No. 357.

GOLDEN STATE LODGE, No. 358.

Buena Park, Orange County.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

614

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Isaac DeLoit Jaynes, Master,
David William Hasson, Chaplain,
Box 156, Buena Park, Cal.
Albert Sidney Feagan, Sen. Deac.,
Charles Lincoln McComber, Sen. W ., George Isaac Thomas, Jun. Deacon,
Clifton Leroy Miller, Jun. Warden, William Edgar Tice, Marshal,
Arthur Leslie Bennett, Treasurer, Thomas McGuire, Steward,
John Sargent Perry, Secretary,
Howard Hugh Haggarty, Steward,
Buena Park, Cal.
Samuel William Little, Tyler.

Angell, Edgar Edward, P. M.
Bennett, Arthur Leslie
Bennis, Karl V.
Bishop, James William
Busby, Burrel
Cady, Eugene Caldwell, P. M.
Cawthon, Jphn Clayborn
Cawthon, Merton Chesley, P. M.
Damron, Charles Lee
Domecq, Louis
Durgan, George Albert
Ellison, Elbert Ralph
Feagan, Albert Sidney
Haggarty, Howard Hugh
Hall, Jesse Clark
Hasson, David William, P. M.
Hasson, Edwin Galen
Hansen, Henry
Hu:tr, Samuel
Jaynes, Isaac DeLoit
Kellenberger, John, Jr.
Kidder, Clarence Arthur
Landell, Gilbert Stuart
Lawrence, Howard Chescer

MEMBERS:
Little, Samuel William
Mann, Charles Homer
. Mann, Robert Carlos
McAllep, Warren Harold
McAllep, William Reed
Mccomber, Charles Lincoln
McGuire, Thomas
Miller, Clifton Leroy
Miller, George Barter
Milliken, James Emanuel
Morgan, Ralph Herbert
Newcomb, Dudley Cameron
Osborn, Maµrice Nelson
Perry, John Sargent, P. M.
Perry, Oliver Hazzard
Smith, Sidney Charles
Street, J9nas Philander
.Taylor, William Saunders
Tic.e, William Edgar
Walker, Simeon Oglesby, P. M.
Warren, Henry Elias
Whitaker, George Andrew
Whitaker, James Henry, P. M.
Winters, ,Sai;nuel Durbin, P. M. --4~.

WITHDRAWN:
Dutton, George Eli
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Pe~hstein, Willia m Bruno
0

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Alberti, Robert Arminio
Anderson, Charles George
Arnold, Ernest Willard
Ashley, Chestec Carlisle
Ayers, Harry Clarence
Badham, Willard Edmund
Baker, Paul Samuel
Balderston, Heber Hamilton, P. M .
Bannister, Alfred William
Bathey, Herbert Theodore
Beal, Selah Rollin
Bean, Clarence Wright
Bean, John Hill, P. M.
Benford, George Arthm·
Bennett, Nelson D.
Beebe, George Brewster
Berry, Nathan
Betz, Harry Eugene
Bishop, He-rbert Martin
Boaz, Clarence Dooley
Bohrman, Henry William, P. M.
Bowen, William Miller
Bozorth, Charles Walter
Bowers, Harry Conger
Brill, Frefleric Waltz
Briceno, Carlos Jose
Brockett, Clarence William
Broadhead, Thomas Harvey
Brown, Archie T.
Brown, John Colville
Brown, Leroy Gregg
Brown, Robert Edward Lee
Buckius, Ed. Morris
Burns, Robert James

Butcher, Robert
Callender, Clarence William
Campbell, Walter Basil
Carter, George Washington
Cheri ngton, William Stacher
Christian, Emile John
Clemens, John Charles
Coleman, George Warren
Conoway, Othello Parker
Copenhaver, Robert Carter
Creswell, Frank W.
Crop, William Mathew
Crowell, Edward Warren
Crump, Ernest Clarence
Cummins, Francis Marion
Cunningham, George
Da niels, Wallace Graham
Daniels, Wm. Henry
Dart , Edward Henry
Dequine, Burt Elkins
Dimmick, Frank Moore
Dinsmore, Joseph Henry
Dixon, Willis Milnor
Dobbs, Ralph Edwin
Dolton, Louis Algernon
Dukeman, Frank Clayton
Dumont, Joseph Ralph
Duncan, Jonathan Columbus
Dunkerley, Samuel George
Duvall, Edgar Augustus
Edwards, Ellsworth Joseph
Faulds, Wm. Robert
Fish, Charles Winthrop
Franklin, James Edward

615

616

Franklin, Reuben Henry
Frost, Fred Rufus
Fuller, Frank Pleasant
Fuller, George William
Gardner, Raymond Albion
Garn, Peter W., P. M.
Gertz, Peter William
Gilbert, William Henry
Gillons, George Henry
Gloege, Edward Frederick
Gockley, Charles Edmund
Goller, John Fred
Good, Clarence Milton
Gray, Jacob L.
Gratz, Louis Wilfred
Griffin, Oliver George
Greenough, Jarneg Frederic
Greenwald, Ludwig Charley
Grundy, Joseph
Haigler, Albert Chester
Haller, Wm. Gustave
Hamer, Joseph W.
Hamill, Edgar Samuel
Hammond, Frank Leslie
Hanby, Jay Walter
Hand, Frank Emerson
Hartley, Frank Alfred
Harvey, Chas. Edward
Haupt, Robert Samuel
Haverstick, John Holman
Hayes, Allen Ernest
Heath, Robert Lee
Henderson, Harvey Milton
Herskowitz, David
Heyen, Albert
Hildebrandt, Henry George
Hinton, Thomas
Hixon, James Hauks
Hoffman, John Vernon
Hogue, Fred 'k Phillip
Holmes, Joseph Benjamin
Howell, Robert Paine
Hunter, Charles Stanley
Hutchinson, William E<lward
Hutton, Frank Sutherland

ROSTER
Rydell, John Baptist
Iberson, Gregory Thaddeus
Irving, James
Isaacs, William Henry
Jackson, John William
Janssen, Julius
Jennings, Robert
Jensen, John Cornelius
Jones, Fred Hooker
Jones, John Leland, P. M.
Jorder, Frederick
Kanouse, Theodore Dwight, P. M.
Kelch, Jacob
Kierulff, Be_nj. Franklin, Jr., P. M.
King, Eugene
King, Samuel Ulysses
Kinsella, Wm. Martin .
Knapp, John Frederick
Knerr, Henry Edgar
Kortlander, Henry William
Krause, Julius Webster
Kreider, Joseph Chas.
La Dow, Arthur
La Dow, Charles
La Fontaine, Russell B.
. Lambert, Mathew
Lang, John Eastman
Ledgerwood, Newton Green
Levy, Solomon
Lichtenstein, Thomas Victor
Long, John Thomas
Low, Fred Ephriam
Lybye, Hans Christian
Lynch, Walter C.
Lyon, Frederick Barton
MacLellan, Daniel Aldo
MacMillan, Andrew James
Madden, Maurice Bernard
Mandie, Alfred W.
, Marsh, Willis Charles, P. M.
Martin, James Edward
Martin, Richard William
Mathis, George Warren
McBirney, Alexander
McCulloch, Samuel Thomas

ROSTER
McDougall, James Tait
McKay, William
McKeown, James Washington
Mead, Charles Leland
Mead, Roy Gibbons
Mellus, Frank Hancock
Mellus, Grover Blair J.
Mellus, Louis Randolph
Mendell, Chas. M., Jr.
Milburn, Charles Nathaniel
Miller, Frank Launtz
Miller, George William
Moodie, James Russell
Moodie, Joseph Grove
Moodie, Raymond Levi
Moore, Newton
Morgan, Chas. Francis
Morgan, James Gale
Morgan, Lawrence Wiiliam
Morgan, Thomas Elisha
Morley, John George, P. M.
Morrison, George Denton
Mote, Ira Ebenezer
Murphy, Alphonso
Nauth, Oliver Lewis
Needham, Paul Arnold·
Northleaf, Henning
Norton, Frank Lathey
Oldershaw, Frank Henry D.
Oliver, Ernest Warner
Opperman, Edwin Christian
Orchard, Wm. Fred 'k
Paden, Foster Spurgeon
Palmer, Arthur Malcolm
Palmer, Benjamin Gardner
Panzer, John Charles
Parker, Herbert Raymond
Parker, Lucius Clark
Peckham, William Mason
Pedgrift, Edward David
Perry, William Franklin
Petter, Reginald Sinclair
Phipps, Charles
Plischke, Frederick William
Porreca, Camillo

Potts, Fred 'k Ernest
Presser, Carl
Price, Samuel S., Jr.
Purdy, John Henry
Raney, Joseph Francis
Raymond, Ed. Shelton
Rawson, Guy Allison P.
Reavis, Winfield Elmo
Reed, George Albert
Reed, George Houston
Requa, Clarence James
Requa, Herbert Davis
Rhind, John Edward
Rhoads, Charles Edward
Risk, Joseph
Riveroll, Elfigo
Roberds, Fred~rick Ottie
Robinson, Clarence Leslie
Roeder, Henry
Rogers, Clarence Wm.
Rook, Ross Henry
Rosemann, William
Rosenberg, Samuel
.Rosenkranz, Jacob·
Ross, Robert Marion
Rothgeb, James Frank
Sanborn, Benjamin Franklin
Sandstrom, Charles
Saunders, Robert Howard
Sayre, John Scott
Schneider, George Henry
Schneider, William Theodore
Schultz, Henry Dentliff
Schweitzer, Arthur Geo.
Schweitzer, Charles George
Schweitzer, Ernest John
Sears; Stanley
Selander, Robert Bond
Shanahan, Maurice
Sharp, Frank Wallace
Sheffield, Charles Thomas
Shellhorn, Arthur Lemon
Sheppard, William Edward
Sherer, Albert James
Skin:rte'r, George Leonard

61i

I

.

ROSTER

618
Smalley, Clifford Allison
Smith, Richard Robertson
Sobieski, John
Spears, Barton Walter
Spreen, Charles Carter
Stevens, Frank Alfred
Stice, Chauncey Albert
Strangman, Theodore
Strickler, John Henry
Sutch, Wendall Hamilton
Swanson, Carl Edward
Taft, Elmer Carlton
Tedford, George Walter, P. M.
Temple, George Francis
Tenbrook, George Henry
Test, Edward Allen
Thies, Charles Louis
Thomas, David, Jr.
Tieck, August Ben
Tierman, Albert
Tolley, Charles Stanley
Truby, Edgar Allen
Vosburgh, George Herman
Wagner, Charles Claud
Wagner, Robert Garfield
Walker, Walter
Wallace, Chas. Albert

Angell, Algernon Robert
Dogle, John Hurst
Peake, George Arthur

Walles, John Fred 'k
Watson, Alex. James
Weaver, Sylvester Lafin
Weisbrod, Clarence Geo.
Wells, Don Wm.
Wheelock, Raymond Patterson
White, Arthur Burr
White, Charles C.
White, George Otto
White, Sylvester William
Whyte, William James
Wilcox, Ephriam Palmer
Wilde, Charles Lawrence
Williams, William Henry
Wilson, Arthur Fai.. burn
Wilson, Chas. Allen
Wing, William Alle'l
Winn, Albert
Winter, Albert He:r>ry
Wood, Arthur Pearc"
Wright, Herbert Cnlos
Wright, Parley
Wright, Albert Edga~, P. M.
Young, Alan Walton
Young, Charles David
Z'emansky, Ellis Le11Vis
-302
Zimmerman, Albert Frank

WITHDRAWN:
Preseott, Ernest Clarence
W oelz, Leonard Charles
Wood, Thomas, Jr.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dow, Fred N.
Anderson, James Madison
McKenzie, Samuel Jerome
EXPELLED:
Flannihan, David Willis

ROSTER

619

LOYALTON LODGE, No. 359.
Loyalton, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each montl> .
OFFICERS:

Charles Schlee£, Master,
Isaac Weston, Chaplain,
Loyafton, Cal.
Walter Henry Duncan, Sen. Deacon,
George Harvey Hampson, Sen. W., Frank Beeson Sparks, Jun. Deacon,
Robert William Thorne, Jun. Ward., Richard Asa Huyck, Marshal,
Brent Marshall Whee_ler, Treasurer, Isaac Pearson, Steward,
Alpheus George Sawin, Secretary, John Henry Peterson, Steward,
Loyalton, Cal.
John Alfred Gustafson, Tyler. ·
MEMBERS:
Arnold, George Ezra
Miller, Monroe Yost
Becker, Michael Thomas
Patterson, John Luther
Pearson, Isaac
Bent, William R.
Conklin, Louis William
Peck, Frank Ferdinand
Counter, Charles Reubin
Peck, William Ottway
Curts, John Gooden
Penney, Jesse Hunter
Peterson, John Henry
Darby, Frank Howard
Davies, Arthur
Sandei-s, William Francis
Sawin, Alpheus George
Duncan, Walter Henry
Schleef, Charles
Enscoe, Joseph Robert
Schroeder, Marion
Epperson, John Clifton
Smith, John X.
Goble, Edmond James
Sparks, Frank Beeson, P. M.
Goodwin, Harry Nettles
Sparks, Joseph Beeson ·
Gustafson, John Alfred
Thompson, Peter Julian
Hampson, George Harvey, P. M.
Thorne, Robert William
Henderson, Robert Leon
Weston, Isaac
Huyck, Richard Asa, P. M.
Wheeler, Brent Marshall
Hoover, Benjamin Franklin
Worn, George Ross
Lewis, Richard Hiram
Wren, John Samuel
Medearis, Albert I.
Millar, James John Orimbah, P. M. Young, Frank Leander
WITHDRAWN:
Walther, Adolph Robert
Lewis·, Horace Edmund

DIED:
Robinson, Henry Harrison ·

-42

620

. ROSTER

SAN FRANCISCO LO:OGE, No. 360.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated :Meetings, first Tnesday in each month.
1739 Fillmore Street.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Woodley Baker, Chaplain,
Arthur Sidney Young, Master,
Victor Elmo Perry, Sen. Deacon,
1860 Golden Gate Avenue.
Alfred Charles Skaile, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Henry Cady, Sen. Warden,
George Rutledge Bell, Jun. Warden, Charles Hugh Roddan, Marshal,
Stephen [saac Simmons, T reasurer, Cale Cfark McQuaid, Steward,
William Floyd Yearian, Steward,
Lewis Emmett Sawyer, Secretary,
Walter Brotherton Herndon, Tyler.
1739 Fillmore Street.
MEMBERS:
Button, Ralph James
Aitken, Frank Wm.
Byers, Ernest Robertson
Aitken, John R., P. M.
Cady, Alfred Henry
Alderson, William Howard
Chamberlain, Newell Day
Anderson, Axel Ferdinand
Chambers, Thomas A.
Auld, John Davidson
Cook, Joseph Sturniolo
Axman, Frederick Rudolph
Cowan, Norman
Axman:, Melvin George
Crandall, Burr Harrington
Axman, Rudolph
Cross, William Wood
Baker, Arthur Woodly, P. M.
Crozier, Alfred Bernard
Baker, George Washington
Crozier, Harry Perryman
Barruth, Wm. Peter
Cushing, Stephen Russell
Bass, Thomas
Dall, Cornelius GADrge
Batkin, Norton Thomas
Dangers, Chester Arthur
Bell, George Rutledge
Dazey, Kendall I verson
Bell, Thomas Lefeaver
De Lasaux, Harry Edward
Benham, Joseph Marshall
Dement, Richard Henry
Benjamin, Elmer Hopkins
De Meyer, Gabriel Henry
Bennett, Henry Charles
Dillon, Isaac
Bergen, Peter Cornelius J.
Dillon, James Root
Blank, William Augustus
Dilfon, John Francis
Bliss, Porter Lincoln
Dodge, Fran.k Lewis
Bliss, Wm. Arnold
Doig, James
Brace, Herbert Edward
Dunn, Edgar H.
Brackett, .Earle
Dutcher, Forrest LeGrand
Bray, Walter Gar1!.eld
Enemark, Leon Henry
Burns, Joseph Augustus
Epler, Samuel Edgar
Bryant, Blinn Seymour

ROSTER
1''olger, Roy Sini:10tt
Fol'eman, Andrew Macpherson
French, Jay Edward
Glissman, Pearlie Ranfi@lph
Grim, Lucullus K.
Racket, Thomas Ophir
Hague, William Edward
Haller, Emile Lucas
Hammersmith, Louis
Hanna, William Albert
Hansen, Oscar Herman
Heim, Herman Marcus
Hendry, Charles Stewart
Hendry, William
Herndon, Walter Brotherton
Herrington, William Merced
Highfiel<l, ]'rank K;night
Hinton, Russell
Hofmann, Jac9b (lustav
Hoin, Theodore Stone
Holloway, Howard Stanley
Hubbard, Theo. Worthingto:Q.
Huffman, Edwin Towne
Hughes, John Calvin
Hutchison, James Crawford, P. M.
Jarvis, Thompson Pearson
Johnson, Harry Sumner, P. M.
Johnson, William Cleas
Jordan, James . Joshua
Jordan, Robert Stephen
Keatinge, Edgar Frankleton
Kimball, William Ernest
King, Clarence Otto
King, Joseph Elvin
Kirkpatrick, George Edward
Kron, Oscar Jacob
Krueger, Henry Jacobus
Laist, Otto, Jr.
La Motte, Alfred Daniel, P. M.
Laumeister, Anton
LeeCamp, Edward
Lehmann, Charles Henry
Lewis, Joseph Cresswell
Lindsay, F rancis
Lindsay, Ulyses Grant

Linz, Fred .J ohn
Lipowitz, Maximilian, P. M.
Litvino:ff, Miehael
Louderback, Harrold
Loveland, Haryey Davis, P. M.
Lundblad, Wm. Arthur
Magill, William Windren
Martin, Wm. Alston Macon
Mauerhan, Artbur C11orlyle
McClymont, Julius Seizer
McDonald, Frank William
Mcintyre, Eugene Blake
McKeand, George R-0ss
McQuaid, Cal~ Clark
Mencke, Rudolph Wm.
Miller, Otis Locke
Moll, Francis Oliver
Moore, Robert Isaac
Morgenstern, Arthur William
Morton, Lawrence Bunker
Munroe, Louis Francis
Nelson, Adolph I~onard
Nelson, William Christian
Newell, Ralph Gerard
Newroth, Louis Henry
Norton, John Francis
Oakes, Charles Wesley
Otto, Robert William
Owens, Alvrado .Benson
Pabst, Rudolph Ambrose
Palmer, Robert Charles
Pa.rkhunt, Truman Leander
Paulson, Thorleif Bjerke
Peiser, Edmond Adair
Pelletier, John Francis
Pence; Orlando Edward
:Perry, .Tesse Claude, P. M.
Perry, Victor Elmo
Peters, Charles Richard
Pritchard, Frank Wm.
Prost, Herbert Greivelclinger
Quade, Henry Otto
Ralph, Phillip Henry
Ramsay, John Domingos
Rasmuss~n, Edwin Otto

621

ROSTER

622
Rasmussen, Maurice Johan
Rasmussen, Rasmus Vister
Rassette, Samuel Joseph
Rebard, John Emil, Jr.
Reynolds, Francis Edward
Richardson, William Joseph
Roddan, Chas. Hugh
Rosie, John Donald
Rowling, William Henry
Russell, Samuel Wilson
Sanborn, Harvey Hackett
Sanford, Frank Warren
Sanguineti, Silvio Joseph
Sawyer, Lewis Emmett
Scharowsky, Hans Albert
Scheilein, John Paul
Segur, Howard Brndberry
Shields, Hugh Francis
Sickles, George Lewis
Sieverts, Christian
Simmons, Stephens Isaac, P. M.
Simpson, Arthur Pierce
Skaife, Alfred Chas.
Slye, Joseph
Smith, Leon Hills

Spencer, Albert Winslow
Spohn, John Henry
Stem, Henry Stuart
Taylor, Philip Bates
Terrill, George Clark
Trimble, James Felix
Tucker, Alber John
Van Nest, Gamaliel C.
Veale, Almer Fletcher
Vincent, Francis Osman
Walkinshaw, Wilfried Henry
Warwick, Henry Clyde
Waters, Barclay
Watters, George Franklin
Webb, Frank Robinson
Whan, William Weir
Williamson, Herbert Edward
Williamson, John Colonel William
Willis, WUliam Walter
Wilson, Franklyn Marshal
Woodfield, Lincoln Merchant
Wood, John Charles
Wooll, John Hastings
Yearian, Wm. Floyd
Young, Arthur Sidney
-194

WITHDRAWN:
Macurda, Arthur Amsden
*Anderson, George Murdock
·M arrack, Reginald
Barden, Charles
Wilson, Mathew Thomas
SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
0 'Neill, Hugh
Miller, Eugene

French, William Gordan

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Kington, Frank Valentine
•Restored during the year.

ROSTER

623

FORT BRAGG LODGE, No. 36z.
Fort Bragg, Mendocino CoUllty.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Kastor Peirsol, Master,
Alfred Austin L ord, Chaplain,
F ort Bragg, Cai.
William Arthur Chapman, Sen. D.,
John Elwyn Weller, S en. Warden, Edwin Lester Barnett, fun. Deacon,
Bernie Alexander Lindrum, J. W., Henry ]. Dellett, Marshal,
Charles Russell Weller, Treasurer, .W illiam Henry Dixon, Steward,
George Golden, Secretary,
Mark Archibald Eglin, Steward,
Fort Bragg, Cal.
Charles B. Plummer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Albert, David Lowell
Higgins, Walter Francis
Albert, Frank Hiram
Holmes, Harry
Baum, Herman Robert
Huggins, Erl
Beckman, Oswald Heribert, P. M.
Hunter, Frederick Charles
Bell, Arthur William
Jones, Perley Centenial
Bouton, Edward Fillmore
,fones, William Gaston
Brown, Edward Evans, P. M.
King, Joseph Belway
Cavanagh, Charles Josepli
Leiser, Leo.
Chapman, Wm. Arthur
Lindrum, Berny Alex., P. M.
Cullen, John Winchell
Lord, Alfred Austin
Curtis, Carlton Allsopp
Lowell, Andrew Jac1tson
Delett, Henry J.
Lowell, John Walter
Dixon, Edward William
Lowry, William Scott
Dixon, William Henry
f,yman, Arthur Stephon
Doidge, Henry Augustus
Macrum, John Wilson
Dorwin, Frank Romeo Canfield
Mathews, Charles William
Duffey, Albert Edward
McCallum, John Alex.
Duffey, Andrew Dallas
Mccomack, Edwin Roy
Mccornack, William Andrew, P. M.
Duffey, Fred
Eglin, Mark Arrhibald
Mero, Charles William
Milliken, Horace Fremont
Fee, George Henry
Nelson, John P.
Foye, Henry Eugene
Foye, Henry Malcolm
0 'Connor, Edward James, P. M.
Fuller, William Fred 'k Horace
Olson, Goodmund
Gardner, Robert Curtis
Peirsol, James Kastar
Golden, George
Plummer, Chas. B.
Gray, Howard Walter
Purlenky, George Phillip
Gray, Mark Dana
Pringle, Douglas Lindsey
Grimm, Charles Andrew Frederick Rasmussen, Alfred

ROSTER

ROSTER

624
Rothgarn, Ruben Andrew
Schmitz, Charles
Schow, Henry Curtis
Seaholm, Otto Henning, P. M.
Shafsky, Abraham. Henry, P. M.
Shafsky, Samuel
Sorenson, John Bronson
Stillings, George Hutchinson
Switzer, Albert James
Todd, John
Tregoning, Henry Stewart

Tullis, Edward
Weller, Charles Russell
Weller, Guy Vary
Weller, Horace Aaron, Jr.
Weller, Horace Alanson, Sr.
Weller, John Elwyn, P. M.
White, Fred Cyrus
Woodruff, Chester
Wright, Charles Edgar
Zerbe, Samuel John

-79

CHARITY LODGE, No. 362.
Campbell, Santa Clara County.

Main, William Haines
Marrs, Tom Elliott
McLaughlin, George Thomas .
Merrill, Alex Pomroy, P. M.
Millard, Fred
Miracle, Curtis Brown
Mitchell, Frank Espin
Moulton, Stillman Augustus
Oliver, John Welch
Parker, Charles L., P. M.
Parker; Elisha Bert
Parso, George Lewis
Peterson, John Edvart
Powers, Edward Augustus
Putnam, Frank Olivia
Righter, Francis Marion, P. M.

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

MEMBERS:
De Selle, Chas. Ellis
Ainsley, John Colpitts
Duncan, John Fellows
Atkinson, George Ernest
Fablinger, James
Bartholomew, Fleury K. 1 P. M.
Farrington, Perry Francis
Beattie, William
Fore, Harry Adolph
Beattie, William Alfred
Galbraith, Nathan Buchanan
Bell, Thomas Floyd
Greene, Joseph Adelbert
Berry, Charles
Griffith, William Butler
Black, Edwin H.
Hall, Arthur Andrew
Blanchard, Thomas S. J.
Hanson, George Warren
Bohnett, Lewis Dan, P. M.
Hartman, Pope Catlin, P. M.
Bohnett, Wm. Calvin
Helliesen, Charles Frederick A.
Brewster, Isaac J.
Hyde, George Edwin
Brown, Earl Daniel
Johnson, Andrew Lytgow
Bryant, Otis Warren
Keesling, Homer Grant
nnTter, John Easta"
Kennedy, Erle Russell
Cornell, Jesse James, P. M.
Lewis Edward W.
Curtis, William Holman

Righter, Geo. Lutes
Robson, George Stokild, P. M.
Schmitt, Jean Emanuel
Scott, Wm. M.
Sha~, Sidney Burton
Smith, Stanley Bassett
Snow, Irving Walter
Stewart, William W.
'l'ownsend, Amos Brown
Townsend, Charles
Tuttle, Thomas Jefferson
Wade, Sylvanus Raynor, P. M.
Waite, Demmon Weston
Whitman, Chauncey Hira
Whitney, George, P. M.

-65

WITHDRAWN:
Rubell, William Henry

OFFICERS:

Stillman Augustus Moulton, Chap.,
John Fellows Duncan, Master,
Walter Irving Merrill, Sen. Deac.,
Campbell, Cal.
Chauncey Hira Whitman, Sen. W., Francis Olivia Putnam, Jun. Deac.,
Irving Walter Snow, Jun. Warden, Louis Dan Bohnett, Marshal,
Sylvanus Raynor Wade, Treasurer, Stanley Bassett Smith, Steward,
Otis Warren Bryant, Steward,
Jam es Fablinger, Secretary,
Charles Townsend, Tyler.
Campbell, Cal.

625

BERKELEY LODGE, No. 363.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Redmond Cyril Staats, Master,
Robert Paramore Arnold, Sen. Deac.,
First National Bank Building.
Samuel Pepper Bartley, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Joseph R. Dawson, S . W. , Edgar Roy Nash, Marshal, .
Hans Peter Nelson, Junior vVarde11, Edward Clyde Forbes, Steward,
Henry Byron Phillips, Treasurer,
Lewis Herman Colen Steward
Robert Bowne Baird, Secretary,
William Riley Stam;er, Tyler:
2624 Bancroft Way.
William Henry Holt, Organist.
Charles Henry Benton, Chaplain,
Abernethy, Harry
Adams, Leonard Oliver
Adams, Orville Davenport
Alexander, Thomas Newton
Allen, Irving Cowan
Anderson, Leslie Herman
Andrews, William Samuel
Annis, Jerome Walter
40

MEMBERS:
Armitage, Ralph Vicent
Arnold, Edwin Charles
Arnold, Robert Paramore
Arntzen, Valdeman
Asman, Henry Ulrich
Attfield, Harry Alex
Bailey, Charles Grant
Bailey, Lewis Newton

626

Baird, Robert Bowne
Barnes, Henry S.
Bartley, Alfred Percal
Bartley, Samuel Pepper
Battelle, Harry Thomas
Barber, Oscar Thomas
Baxter, George Perkins
Bayley, David Harry
Beedle, Elbert Ellsworth
Behm, Augustus Clair
Benton, Charles Henry, P. M.
Benton, Julian Juriah, P. M.
Bernstein, Alfred Emanuel
Bernstein, Jacob Alfred
Birdsale, James Bussey
Biglow, John Edwin
Bouve, Claud Sylvanus
Bowman, Guy Tennyson
Bradhoff, Clarence Otto
Bradhoff, Peter Francis
Brothers, Walter Edgar
Brown, Walter Shirlaw
Burchett, George Letchford
Burgess, Frank Doy!
Butler, Robert
Butterfield, Fred Louis
Card, Walter Beecher
Church, Allen
Church, Charles Edward
Coe, Herbert Milton
Cohn, Jacob Isaac
Cole, Charles Martin
Colen, ·Lewis Herman
Congdon, Merton Joseph
Coughlan, Walter Sherman
Cowley, Herbert Parkhurst
Cowley, William Ashline
Cox, George Eckert
Cuthill, Thomas Andrews
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel
Craig, David
Craig, Harry Sherwood
Davies, Arthur Parker
Davis, James Randal, P. M.
Daw~on, Frederick Joseph R.

ROSTER

HOST.WR
Demerritt, Hayden Lewis
Denniston, James
Dickie, George Elwood
Dickinson, Philip Storrs
Dopkins, William Erle
Driver, John Rush
Dreyer, Niels Peter Fred 'k
Dudley, William Christopher
l<Jberhard, George Hammil
Edwards, Benj. Franklin
Egleston, John Valentine
Elliott, George Alexander M.
Ellis, Charles Zenas
Ellis, Eben Bethnel
Emerson, Ralph Waldo
ErickMon, Antaria
Eslick, Jo~eph Harold
Everett, Charles Crandall
Everett, George Linus
Ey, George Phillip
Fenton, William Joseph
Field, Henry Norman
Forbes, Edward Clyde
Forbes, William John
Foulk, . Henry Douglas
French, William Henry
Furlong, Herbert William F.
Gage, Benjamin Franklin
Gester, George Clark
Gibbs, John Walter
Gill, Charles Delos
Gillihan, Allen Francis
Glessner, Harry Horbach
Godwin, James Madison
Grey, Frank Sidney
Griffith, Hanford Berry
Grigg, Harry H erbert
Gross, Frederick
Gross, Joseph Watson
Hager, Adolph John
Hall, Charles Ambrose
Hamilton, Aymer Jay
Hanford, John Raymond
Heath, George Ralph
Herrmann, Andrew

Hewett-, Harlow
Heywood, Walter Minturn
Hilderbrand, Frederick Jacob
Hill, James Faulkner, P. M.
HiJI, John
Hodge, James
Hodge, James Hamilton
Hodge, John William
Roedel, Robert Oscar
Holt, William Henry
Horkey, Frederick Joseph
Horton, Alvin
Howson, George William, Jr.
Hugill, Elbert Abram
Hutton, John Adams Duglu
Irwin, Horace Dunn
Jackson, Arthur Vincent
James, Charles Lewis
Jenkins, Joel Harry
Jenkins, William John
Johnson, Edward
Johnson, Frederick Woodward
Johnson, Gustav Adolph
Johnston, Clarence Loran
Jones, David Fowler
Jones, Harry Oliver
.Tones; John R.
Juster, Cyril Cecil
Kellogg, Francis Comings
.Kelsey, Harry Dayton, P. M.
Klaus, Fred James
Klein, Julius
Koforrl, James Morris
La Baree, William H.
Langlais, Chas. Alfred
Laws, Henry Hudson
Lawton, Frank Houteling
Lear, Peace E lwyn
Leonard, .Joseph William
Linsley, Howard McMinn
Little, George Wesley Willis
Loring, Ernest Linwood
Luhr, William Frederiek August
Lyons, George Washington
Macnulay, Henry Clayton

627

Macdonald, Hershel Holt
Martin, William Augustus
Maro, Charles
Mason, Ralph Waldo
Matignon, Edmond Chas.
Maxim, Harry Ivan
McAdams, William Grover
McClintic, John
McConnell, Alex;. Grosby
McCoy, Charles Henry
McDonald, George Roy
McKelvey, Charles Angelo, P. M.
McKeown, Arthur
McLauren, Jay Luculhts
McNair, Frederick Henry
Meder, Walter John
Merrilees, John M., P. M.
Miller, James Arthur
Miller, Robert Luther
Miller, Royal
Morris, Fred Ludwig
Morrison, John Tower, P. M.
Morse, George David
Morse, Newell Obadiah
Mortensen, Clarence N.
Mortimer, Walter John
Mosher, Ernest Hiram
Mueller, Fred Albert
Munz, Ernest Julius
Nash, Edgar Roy
Needham, Harry Burr
N ~Ison, Hans Peter
Nelson, William Orr
Nichols, William, Jr.
Nielsen, Neils Jensen
Nielsen, Nicholai Laurita:, Jr.
Ochiltree, Gilbert Brydon, P. M.
Oliphant, Joseph
0 'Reilly, Garrett
Otis, George Fre<1ron
Ott, August Louis
Owens, William Evan
Ozouf, Henri Eugene
Parmenter, Charles N.
Parsons, Albert Samuel, P. M.

628
Patty, Lea Hardin
Peck, John Thomas
Peck, John William
Peck, Louis Stanley
Phillips, Henry Byron, P. M.
Pidwell, Willard Trevosso
Poston, Theron Gregory
Pratt, Edward Payson
Preston, James Theo.
Price, Raymond David
Ramsden, Charles Harold
Randall, Edwin Griffin
Randolph, Robert Lee
Rankin, Ivan Sloan
Reed, Calvin Morse
Reed, George Edward
Reed, Richard Cecil
Reynolds, John Henry
Richards, Ernest A.
Richter, Roland
Roadhouse, Chester Linwood
Roberts, Frederick Charles
Robison, James Leman, P. M.
Ross, John Sutherland
Rostein, Louis Albert
Russell, Merrill Leo
Sanger, Walter Max
Schaeffer, James Garfield
Schmidt, George
Schuessler, Louis Edward
Schuster, Gustav Adolph
Sheldon, Frank Henry
Sheldon, Robert N.
Shepherd, Joseph M.
Sherman, Cornelius Augustua
Siddall, Clarence H.·
Simonds, Charles G.
Sims, Richard Maury
Slater, George Rhodes
Smith, Charles Medred
Smith, Dwight Timothy
Smith, Geo. Ormond
Smith, Harry Camden
Smith, Lycurgus Dee
Snyder, Lewis N.

ROSTER
Sorensen, Hans Rudolph Nicolai
Sorensen, Otto Valdemar
Spear, Charles Henry
Spear, Charles Morton
Spinks, Charles Henderson
Staats, Redmond Cyril
Stacy, Leroy Willis
Stamper, William Riley
Starke, Eric Alex.
Steele, John Alex.
Steven·s, Carl Emile
Stevenson, Herbert Barrows
~tevenson, Thomas Edward
Stewart, Guy Robertson
Stokes, Charles Lawrence
Swick, Edwin Clyde
Sykes, Charles Julius
Thies, John
Thomas, Wade Hampton
Tobin, James Anthony
Tobin, Thomas John
Trueblood, George Linebarger
Turner, Edward Quale
Turner, Wm. Edward
Underwood, Byron Edward
Verrue, Harry Randal
. Vickers, Austin Lot
Voteller, Frederick
Wagner, George Ralph
Walker, Albert Jay
Wallburg, Charles
Ward, John Edmund
Weymouth, Edgar Albert
Wharton, Raymond Dias
White, George W.
Whiteing, Homer
Whiteman, Fred Amer
Williams, Albert McQueen
Wilson, Leonidas Edward
Witte, Gustav Adolph
Wittich, Julius Henry
Wooldridge, Jesse Walton
Woolsey, Frank Reeve
Wright, William Charles
Young, John William
-286

:ROSTER

629

WITHDRAWN:
Harvey Andrew
Johnson, Samuel Woodward
Fish, Leon Henry
McClain, Frank Walter
Hathaway, Frederick Clancy
McHaffie, William Robert
Newman, Oliver Simon
Ba~r,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Goodchild, Richard Henry
Reed, William Elwood
James, Elias Olen
Sisson, George Henry
Roslington, William
Quackenbush, Simcoe Simmons
Turner, Thomas
DIED:
Packer, Orville Hugh

OLIVET LODGE, No. 364.
Corning, Tehama County.
titated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George G. Morgan, Master,
Frank Porter Flogal, Chaplain,
Corning, Cal.
Clyde Pinckney Finger, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Almond Hunt, Sen Ward., Frank Williams Koehler, Jun. Deac.,
Bertram, Lloyd Reynolds, Jun. W., Robert Albert Foster, Marshal,
Warren Nichols Woodson, Treas., Otto Bismarck Liersch, Steward,
Edward Frederick Conway, Sec.,
Hartley Charles Fo_ster, Steward,
Corning, Cal.
William John Crooks, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allerton, Wm. C.
Dale, William
Beresford, Fred Grant
Darden, William Henry.
Birch, Alfred Lee
De Motte, Marshall ·
Blanck, Humboldt A.
Finger, Clyde Pinckney
Blatchey, Alfred F.
Flour:p.py, Chester E.
Busey, Allen A.
Foster, Hartley C.
l)ase, Edgar Elroy
Foster, Robert Albert, P. M.
(Jase, Elia!J Payne, P . M.
· Fripp, Richard Bacot, P. M.
Case, Mason Nutting, P. M.
Harper, Hiram Augustus
IJockcroft, John
Harpst, W. H.
Converse, Lynn Crosby
Hoag, George Alex., P. M.
Conway, Edward·Frederick, P. M. Hunt, Harry Almond
Crooks, Williat11 ·John
·
Jacobs, Henry . Frederick

· ROSTER

G.10

Kenney, Marcus Endorus
Kent, Nelson Gilman
Koehler, Frank William
Lukens, Ernest Paul
Maynard, John Baptist
Mcllroy, John James
Moffitt, Isaac Frank, P. M.
Morgan, George G.
Newton, Perry John
Newton, Robert Perry
Notz, Frederick Theodore
Remick, Henry Clay
Reynolds, Bertram Lloyd
Rice, Napoleon D.

Rickman, Edgar Conrad
Samson, William Herbert, P. M.
Smith, Alex.
Snowden, William C.
Thairlwall, John Richard
Thompson, Lewis Hartwell
Thompson, Parker Howard
Walker, William
Wheeler, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Wilbourn, Thomas Jefferson
Wilson, Elias McCarty
Wilson, George Benton
Woodson, Warren Bettis
Woodson, Warren Nicholas
-54

WILLITS LODGE, No. 365.
Willits, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
'William Provines, Master,
William Carey Whitaker, Chaplai11,
Willits, Cal.
Herbert Ed. Walker, S en. Deac.,
George Youtle, S enior Warden,
Albert Jeremiah James, J11n. Deac.,
George Artliur Smart, Jun. Warden, Conrad Harris Goldberg, Marshal,
Willia m Thomas Saxon, Treas11rer, George Calvin Lewis, S teward,
Fred N. Loring, Secretary,
George Thomas Heywards, Stew ard,
Willits, Cal.
Charles Wm. Hotskin, T yler.

Alden, Edward R.
Bilodeau, Lewis
Bittenbender, Duane
Bittenbender, Lloyd
Blackman, Edward
Blodgett, Walter LeRoy, P. M.
Brandt, Daniel James
Branscomb, James Henry
Campbell, Alexander James
Clark, Bernatd Fred
Clare, George C.
Conner, Beecher Barnum
Daniels, James Edward
Davidson, Allen, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Davidson, Benjamin Franklin
Dryden, Robert James
Dunlap, Orren
Edwards, William Richard Jones
Eggerts, Herbert George
Ellis, Carl William
Ells, Henry George
Fairbanks, August1111 John
Foster, William Anderson Scott
Goldberg, Conrad II.
Greenlaw, Charles Rutherford
Hart, Henry Herbert
H eyward, George Thomas
Hot~kin, Charles William

ROSTER
Irvine, Charles Alonzo
Ritschel, Raymond John
James, Albert jeremiah
Roach, George Marvin
Joyce, James Alfred, P. M.
Roach, Lew Jackson
Le Bars, Joseph
Roach, Robert Emmet
Lewis, George Calvin
Rowe, Cassius Mitchell
Loring, .Fred Newhall
Sawyers, David Leander
Martin, John Wesley
Saxon, William Thomas
McClelland, George
Selfridge, Edward August
Smart, David, P. M.
McPeak, Eugene
Muir, Henry Baker
Smart, George Arthur
Palmer, Charles Edgar, P. M.
Smith, Abinadi Jefferson
Perry, Frank Fielding
Steele, Fred William, P. M.
Petrie, Alex. Hays
Thompson, Arthur Harlow
Philpott, Bert Roy
Underhill, ~rn . Raymond
Power, Luke
Von Emmel, Hugh
Provine, william
Walkf'r, Herbert Edward
Raffee, Llewellyn Jay
Whitaker, Wm. Carey
Reed, Theron Delmar
White, Gaston David
Whitney, Frank
Rice, William Isaac, P. M.
Richardson, Geo. Washington, P. M. Woelffel, George August
Y oude, George
Riffe, Abraham .Thomas

Coleman, James Owen

031

-70

WITHDRAWN:
Crossfield, Fra ncis Marion

LAS PALMAS LODGE, No. 366.
Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, third Thurs<iay in each month.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Joseph Laurus, Master,
Duncan W allace, Chaplain.
720 Mildreda Street.
\IVilliam Dick, S e11. D eacon,
David Monroe Barnwell, S en. W ., Frederick Lloyd Swartz, Jun . D eac.,
Clarence Nelson Williams, J un . W ., Speed Butler Leas, M arshal,
Albert Bazzle Clark, Treasurer,
Thomas Rogers Thomson, S teward,
Raymond Waldo Baker, Secretary, Hugh Dansey Carver, Steward,
P. 0 . Box 1285, F resno.
Albert H enry Costlty, Tyler.
Adams, William Lanier
Albrecht, Albert Waldo
Albrecht, Albert Parkhurst
Allardt, Hugo Frederick

MEMBERS:
Allison, Duncan Donald, P. M.
Ambrose, Wiley Dismukes
Anderson, John Quincy
Anderson, Thomas Hart Benton

632

ROSTER

Archibald, Lambert Lewis
Aten, Ralph Roscoe
Austin, Herbert Z., P. M.
Austin, John Reubin
Baillie, John Tillie
Baker, Raymond Waldo
Balch, Albert Eugene
Barnard, Charles Robert
Barbour, Henry Ellsworth
Barnwell, David Monroe
Barrack, Guy
Barr, Wallace Leach
Bartram, Fay Harrison
Bates, Henry Hutton
Beaser, Harry Phillip
Bernhard, George Henry
Bernhard, Joseph Phillip, P. M.
Beveridge, James Young
Blacksill, James
Bostick, James Neely
Bravermann, Alfred
Briggs, Herbert Frederick, P. M.
Brix, Herman Hugo ·
Buker, Humphrey Oscar
Burgess, John Edward
Burnett, James Arthur
Canham, John Silas
Carver, Hugh Dansey
Casner, Ezra Rufus
Cearley, Charles Talent
Chaddock, Emory Leroy
Chappell, Walter Lee, P. M.
Chittenden, Charles William
Chittenden, Robert D.
Christie, John Alex.
Clark, Albert Bazzle, P. M.
Clawson, Chas. Harold
Cobb, Charles Hensley
Coffman, John Franklin
Costley, Arthur Henry
Cowan, Angus Bartram
Crawford, James Malcolm
Craycroft, Harry ·Judge
Craycroft, Wm. Wirt
Cross, William Walter

Cummings, Gabriel Penn
Cutting, William Preston
Daugherty, William
Detoy, Louis
Dick, William
Drew, Alex. M.
Duff, Howard Smith
Duvall, Joseph James
Eden, William Wallace
Ellis, John Richard
Ellithorpe, Geo. Thomas
Ellithorpe, Robert H.
Ellsberry, Benjamin Franklin
Epperson, Robert Lee
Everts, Olen Lee
Falkenstein, IDysses S. G.
Faris, George Atkinson
Fassett, Brisceno Amendez, P. M.
Fassett, Byron Vale
Fassett, Edward Livingston
Fassett, Francis Ronello
Fee, John Hauser
Ferger, John Qharles
Ferguson, Wm. Earnest
Fink, Charles Laton
Flesher, Ros$mond Asa
Glass, Edward
Grove, Millard Paine
Hamilton, Creighton Everett
Hankins, Richard Hosa
Harvey, Herbert Courtney
Hart, Fred
Hasselbalch, Andre Miuno
Hayden, Thomas Morris
Hayden, Ulysses Grant
Helferich, Harry Wallace
Helvey, John Davis
Henning, B,runo William
Heron, John Maxwell
Hess, Henry Mason
Hickman, Frank
Hickman, James Ross
Higgins, William Fane
Holcomb, Edward Wood
Hill, Calvin Sheok

ROSTER
Hilton, Leslie Allan
Holland, Herschel Horace
Hollingsworth, Robert Blacksher
Huffman, Milton Decatur
Hughes, Edward Earl
Jensen, Andrew Martin
Jensen, Christian Peter
Johnson, Marvin Albert
Jones, Hayden French
Jones, John Simeon
Jones, Roland D.
Jorgensen, Christian
Kerney, Charles H.
Kjaerbye, Claus Peter Hoyer
Kleeberger, Edward Adolphus
Lam kin; Bert B.
Lazarus, Samuel Joseph
Leas, Speed Butler, P. M.
Leavitt, Charles Carroll, Jr.
Lindsay, Elliott William, P. M.
Lines, Silas Alonzo
Lingby, Louis
Loomis, Howard Harry
Loper, Albert M.
Ludvigsen, Peter Erick
Lundy1 Charles Albert
MacKinnon, Archibald Robert
Markley, Osborn Lincoln
Marshall, William Sylvester
Martin, Joseph George
Maul, Bert M.
McCain, Thomas Jefferson
Mccardle, Charles M.
McDowell, Hugh Addison
McWhorter, Alden Baker
Messersmith, Joseph
Miles, William Oscar
Miller, Frederick Marvin
Miner, Jesse Wayland
Mower, Eugene Albert
Munger, Albert Luke
Murphy, Leavis Andrew
Murray, George Grover
Niblock, Samuel William
Noble, Jay Preston

Norton, Paul Bruce
0 'Brien, Charles Lee
Parsons, Wickliff Walker
Pickford, George
Pickford, Rollin Alphonso
Pierce, Charles Sheldon
Platt, Sidney Lawrence
Plaugher, John Paul
Porter, Robert Milroy
Pottle, Fred Warren
Pottle, James Cyrus, P. M.
Price, William R.
Primrose, Bert Anderson
Proffitt, John William
Robinson, George Vaci!
Rohrer, William Newton
Rowe, William
Ryan, Omer Wester
. Sample, Thomas Nelson
Scholz, Oswald Sylvester
Smith, Ernest Nathaniel
Smith, Frank Messer
Smith, James Granville
Smith, James Wiley, P. M.
Smith, Thomas Henry
Snyder, Ralph Lennard
South, Francis Palmer
Sprague, Hobart Almerin
Stebbins, James Albert
Stokes, Victor Lee
Stover, Cleme Earl
Streeter, Jarvis, Jr.
Sunderland, Alpheus Eugene
Sunderland, Le Roy Edwin
Sutherland, William Angus, P. M.
Swartz, Frederick Lloyd
Swift, Harvey Whalen
Taylor, Robert Lincoln
Thomson, Thomas Rogers
Torrance, Charles
Telfer, Ralph Morris
True, Edward Henry
Vogel, Herbert Eugene
Wakefield, Chester Kenneth
Walden, Charles Edward

633

ROSTER

ROSTER
Wallace, Duncan
Walrond, Ernest Adolphus
Walter, Charles Lewi.s
Warner, Willis
Waterman, Edward Bentley
Walthall, Edward Berfoot
Wheelock, Arthur Charles
White, James Riggs
Whitney, Frank Jarvis
Wickstrom, Reuben N.

Wilkinson, John Howard
Williams, Clarence Nelson
Williams, William Rufus
Wilson, George F .
Wishon, Albert Graves
Wright, John Elmer
Wright, William Calvin
Wyatt, Walter Frank
Wylie, John
Young, Edmund Ellsworth

-208

WITHDRAWN:
Asbury, Frank Herbert
Bliss, William Arnold
Shirriff, Charles LeBaron
Elskamp, John Leo
McKibbin, Winfred Martin
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Ballard, Lewis Morgan

Stewart, Charles Edward

DIED:
Youmans, John H .

SOUTH PASADENA LODGE, No. 367.
South Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jarvis Raymond Wilder, Master,
Walter Smith Coffin, Chaplain,
1108 Garfield Avenue.
H arry Maxwell Agnew, S en. Deac.,
Henry Will Masac, Senior Warden, H arold Ernest Allen, Jun. Deacon,
Floyd Rigg James, fun. Warden,
John Thomas Peed, Marshal,
William Church Brainerd, Treas.,
William Boothby Stringfellow, S tw.,
John Newell Hunt, Secretary,
John Homer Sampson, Steward,
1300 L yndon Street.
Charles Mack Hord, Tyler.

Agnew, Harry Ma xwell
Allen, Harold Ernest
Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Armstrong, Allan Andrew
Arnold, Edwin Martin
Austin, Charles
Axtman, Willi.am Francis

MEMBERS:
B akewell, Wm. Chas. Piedmont
Barden, Edward Everett, P. M.
Ba rton, Loren Chandler
Becker, Henry
Beers, Edwin Llewellyn
Bennett, Ch&rles Lafayette
Binder, George Lewie

Bishop, George Wells
Bradshaw, Wm. Andrew
Brainerd, Wil1i&lll Church
Brickels, John Limer
Brigham, Wm. Cllrtis
Bush, George Clarence
Carlin, Dee Elias
Oarlin, William McCullum
Carson, John Elmer
Case, Munson Timothy
Cattern, Frank Addison
Chapman, Richard Beck
Clark, Harold Haines
Clement, Charles Walter
Cochran, Wm. Alfred
Cooley, Elias Arthur
Coultas, George William
Coulter, Herbert McKay
Cox, William Lester, l'. M.
Crippen, Ellery Hix
Davis, Alfred Wilson
Dodge, Jonathan Sherman
Douglas, Charles Kimball
Doyle, John Hurst
Dublin, John Ed.
Dupuy, Ben Francis
Eckert, Wm. Thomas
Elliott, Archie H.
Ewing, Charles
Fishburn, Chalmers Good
Fishburn, Claud Willard
Fisher, Joseph Eugene
Foster, Wm. Orange Barber
Freeman, William Prescott
Garwood, Benjamin Vernon, P. M.
Ga tes, Charles Clark
Gates, Egbert James
Gates, Don Salmon
Gifford, Thomas I.
Godfrey, Edmund L. B.
Green, Richard Tobias
Grier, George Edgar
Hanson, · Harry Clarence
Hawkins, Robert Edward
Hazlett, William

Herman, Wm. Frederick
Higgins, Frank Barnum
Higgins, Roy Walter
Hinman, Charley
Hirschler, David Rudolph
Hord, Charles Mack
Hunt, John Newell
Jacobs, Wm. Leonard
.Jacobson, William Forsberg
James, Floyd Rigg
Johnson, Walter J.
Johnston, Edward James
Jones, Harry Arthur
Jones, Walker F. D.
Keetch, Arthur
Kiesling, Henry
Kurtz, Peter
Ledgewood, Nathaniel
Lewis, Boon
Longley, Anzelotto Leonell, P. M.
Longlew, Charles Franklin
Lowry, William Henry
Mackin, Frederick Blair
Manchester, Otis Byers
Masac, Harry Will
McCluer, Chas. Delbert
McCluer, James Henry
MeCutcheon, Robert J.
McKinney, Samuel Morehead
McLeish, John Munn
McNabb, .Tames Britton
McStay, Carl Elmo
Mendereon, Henry
Moffitt, Thomas
Moore, John W.
Myers, Fred
Nelson, Charles Alfred
Newer!", William De Forest
Newton, Daniel Roque
Packer, Hartley Crawford, P. M.
Parsons, Walter Hawkins
l>eanon, Harry Ernest
Peed, John Thomas
Penfield, George Wallace
Phillips, Frank Henry

ROSTER

ROSTER

636

Pierson, Alvin E.
Postle, Herman Richard
Postle, Kenneth Fountain
Pridham, James Chaplin, P. M.
Pridham, Richard Woodsworth
Price, Benjamin
Reid, La Verne SanderR
Rhone, Charles Edward
Robertson, William James
Rose, Richard Thornton
Rust, Edward Humphrey
Salisbury, John Caleb
Sampson, John Homer
Shult, Adolph Frederic
Seay, Robert Horsley
Shank, Edmu~d Simpson
Shenk, John Wesley, Jr., P. :M.
Shuttleworth, Frederick William
Smith, David Franklin
Soper, Joseph Bebe

Avery, Ralph Washburn

Spears, Peter Benham
Speers, Froman
Staininger, George Earl
Stonebrook, Hal Bell
Stringfellow, William Boothby
Sutton, Ernest Venable
Sweetser, John Virgil
Taylor, Charles Newton
Treen, Frederick William
Updike, Peter Holmes
Vatcher, Herbert James, Sr.
Vatcher, Herbert James, Jr.
Walton, Walter Watts
Weaver, Bertram Moses
Weber, Harry Lud
White, Louis Napoleon
Wilde, Eben
·
Wilder, Jarvis Raymond
Wilson, Charles William, P. M.
Wride, Andrew J.
-144

WITHDRAWN:
Jacobs, John Carpenter

UNITY LODGE, No. 368.
Glendale, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Hobbs, Master,
Alphonso Lafayette Chandler, Chap.,
600 N. Central Ave., Tropico, Cal. Allen Lincoln Bryant, Sen. Deac.,
Richard Clark Sternberg, Sen. W., Albert Mason Chase, Jun. Deac.,
Ernest John Morgan, Jun. Ward.,
John Graybill Hunchberger, Mar.,
Asa Vincent Fauset, Treasurer,
Donald Stewart Erskine, Steward,
Alphonso Welker Tower, Secretary, Joseph Henry Webster, Steward,
885 Damasco Court, Glendale.
Francis Edward Moore, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackley, Leroy C.
Ayers, Edward
Albright, Frank Ellsworth, P. :M.
Bailey, William
Andrews, .Toshua Earnest
Ball, Lewis W.
Ash, Harry Wilber
Barnes, George Nuttman
Ayers, Edgar Stewart
Black, William Goff

Borthick, Samuel Littleton
Borthick, William Ealey
Brown, John Mackenzie
Brown, Valentine Price
Bryant, Allen Lincoln
Bulkeley, Henry Loomis
Bullis, ·w esley H.
Burch, Nelson C.
Burke, Joseph J a mes
Campbell, Arthur, P. M.
Campbell, Daniel, P. M.
Camp bell, Frank
Campbell, Matthew
Carr, Vernon Albert
Chandler, Alphonso Lafayette
Chandler, Cornelius Lincoln
Chase, Albert Mason
. Chase, Raymond Everett
Coker, Harry Percy
Collins, Albert William
Colloran, John Edgar
Cornwell, Albert Glenn
Delegal, Thomas Percy
Deal, Fred
Donecker, Frank Archer
Doyle, John Robert
Ebbe, Richard Alvin
Echols, William Alonzo
Ellias, Edward Bertine
Emery, Edw11rd tnysses
Erskine, Donald Stuart
Evans, Wm. Elmer
Fanset, Asa Vincent
Fisher, Frank Philias
Fiskll, Dana
Fraley, Walter Conrad
Frank, Eugene Charles
Graf, John John
Hall, Racine D.
Hartsaugh, Chris-topher William
Hibbert, Wm. Joseph
Hobbs, John
Horasta, Joseph Wm.
Howe, Harry Lee
Hopkins, Edward Beach

637

Hopkins, James Edward
Hunchberger, John Grabell
Hosford, Horace Greeley
Imler, David Henry
Imler, Ruben Zinn, P. M.
Kelty, Daniel, Jr.
King, Herbert Charles
Larkey, George Emory
Le Grande, Henry Louis
Lewis, Fred Richard
Logan, John Arthur
Logan, Oliver Cunningham
Lough, John Ashwell
Lynch, Edward Melville
Lynch, Harry Baker
Marek, George Albert
McConnell, Ernest
McElroy, Wm. Weldon
McFwdden, Charles Wilber, P. M.
Mcintyre, James Freeman
McPeak, John
McNntt, Porter S.
McWhorter, Wilber Walter
Miller, George Thomas
Mills, William S.
Miner, Hamilton Arthur
Mitchell, Alexander
Moore, Francis· Edw ard
Moore, Stephen Walker
Monroe, Lewis Allen
Morgan, Ernest John
Morgan, Frank Sprone
Moyse, George tnysses, P. M.
Nash, Wm. Francis
Oberdick, Earnest Farrell
Ogden, Hiram
Ogg, Thomas Daniel
Pack, Edgar Wilson
Palmer, Samuel James S.
Palmer, Thomas Costian
Parker, Charles Frederick
Parker, Ezra Fish
Penn, William Thomas Prosser
Pulliam, Claude Overton
R ees, Roger George

ROSTEU
ROSTER

638

Julius c.
Berger, Morris
Birbeck, Joseph Nelson
Berne, Martin Alonzo
Bliss, John Dallett
Bodillo, Pe(lro Modesto
Brooks, Clarence S.
Brooks, Louis Robinson
Brown, Claude L.
Brown, Geo. Edwin
Brown, George W.
Brown, Henry West
Brown, James T.
Bryan, Stephen Douglass
Bungay, Robert Henry
Burks, Dana
Burns, Charles Young
Carter, James Thomas
Carter, George
Coil, Ernest B.
Courtellier, .Toseph E.
Dales, John Bertram, P. M.
Damerel, Charles William
Dando, Albert Bruce C.
Dement, Eugene W.
Denne, Fred Vincent
Dodge, Charles P.
Donahue, Daniel
Douglas, Alexander
Dunsmore, John Victor
Dutton, Harry Adams
Eads, Walter John
Eager, Abraham Wesley
Eakins, A. B.
Eames, Frederick T.
Edinger, Ralph Garfield
Ehrenhart, Clifton Charles
Eichbaum, Herman William
Elliott, Walter Sherman
Erkes, Walter Emil
Eville, Thomas Benjamin
Fanjoy, Charles A.
Fanning, Samuel F.
Ferris, James Andrew
Fish, J, eon Henry
R~rthel,

Remsburgh, Melvin Zlora
Reynolds, Elbert Deville
Reynolds, Marion Allen
Richmann, Emile Frederick
Ried, Sylvanus John
Robertson, Wm. Cambell
Russell, Charles Edward
Schick, Morris
Smart, George Arthur
Smith, Wm. Alexander
Soper, Eldon Erskine
Sternberg, Richard Clark
Stine, Jesse Sylvanis
Story, Warren
Thatcher, Amos Davis
Tholen, Emile Francis
Thornton, Tom Croethurs

Tower, Alphonso Welker
•rower, Ora Isaiah
Tuttle, Paul Vincent
Valentine, John Sherwood
Vesper, Frank H.
Vold, Christopher Oliver
Walton, Clarence Munroe
Walton, Munroe Lawrence
Webster, Joseph Henry
White, Charles
Williams, Charles Nelson
Williams, Ralph Sargent
Wood, Thomas, Jr.
Wintersgill, Arthur Thomas
Witt, Edwin M.
Woodberry, George Barker

-133
WITHDRAWN:
Austin, Charles G.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Wright, Alfred L.

Budd, Harry Johnston

DIED:
Dyer, Isaac Tillman

OCEAN PARK LODGE, No. 369.
Ocean Park, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month
OFFICERS:
Robert James Haney, Master,
Oscar C. McCord, Chaplain,
Ocean Park, Cal.
Eugene W. Dement, S enior Deacon,
Thomas Hollis Hanna, Sen. Ward., John Victor Dunsmore, Jun. Deacon,
Charles W. Damerel, Ji1n. Warden, Seymore D. Wheeler, Marshal,
William Green, Trcarnrcr,
Claude L. Brown, Steward,
Charles Seeley Thatcher, Secretary, Mahlon Charles Rice, Steward.
Ocean P ark, Cal.
Alexander, James Victor
Allen, Harry Warfield
Arnet, Albert Charles

MEMBERS:
Anderson, William Henry
Ashley, John William
Baker, Daniel Webster, P. M.

Fraser, Alexander R., p, M.
Fraser, Earl Alexander
· Fredrickson, Charley c.
Freeman, John Alex.
Gage, Herbert Richmon1I
Gilman, William Earl
Gillon, Charles Edwin
Good, Henry Manard
Good, Henry Milton
Grant, Percy Morris
Grcich, Stephen B.
Green, Charles N.
Green, William
Grubb, Oscar Edwin
Haach, Peter
Hammond, Will Dwight
Haney, Robert James
H annn, Byron Calvin
Hanna, Thomas H.
Haskell, Wesley
Hassinger, Thomas Hamilton
Heimann, Richard
Huff, William T.
.Tohnson, Gus
Jones, George M.
Kirkelie, Ole A.
Kiger, William H.
King, Marvin R.
Kingery, S. Henry
Koontz, Wilford Charles
Lawton, Frank
Leland, Alvah Hoyt
Levengood, H. Wilson
Loud, Alfred Sternfeld
Lorenz, Howard Sutton
Mail, William R.
Makin, John
Mallet, Richard Edward
Marcoux, Harold w.
McCord, Oscar Thomas
McKinney, Preston
McManus, George
Meldrum, Thomas Miller
Mellen, Charles Henry
Meskimen, Charles E.

ROSTER

ROSTER

640

Metcalf, James Rolland
Meyers, Henry M.
Michel, Herman
Millar, F. Victor
Miller, Harry
Miller, Kenton A.
Morphy, Evan P.
Morre, Herbert B.
Morrison, Earl Benton
Morrison, Edward Donaldson
Nuttall, John Price
O'Connell, Chas. P.
Oldham, John Y.
Oliver, William Edwin
Owens, James E.
Packard, Gordon Steve
Peasgood, James Thomas
Pendelton, Charles Henry
Peterson, Henry C.
Phillips, Robert Alex
Porter, Guy McBride
:Powell, Charles B.
Rathbone, Charles Clary
Rea, Frank Wheeler
Reed, Charles,G.
Rice, Mahlon Charles
Ritchie, Charles Hamilton, P. M.
Rogers, Harry Ermon
Royston, Fred E.
Sanders, Orlando A.
Schooley, Charles
Sibley, John Whitney
Silver, Burnim
Simmons, John Edison
Smith, A. D.
Smith, Ralph Elmer
Smith, Thomas Golden
Sohn, James Harve
Spencer, Thomas Jarvis

Stamps, George Furman
Staples, Frank A.
Stearns, Frank LeGrand
Steele, Murray Moore
Stephens, Thomas John
Stevens, Benjamin Franklin
Stewart, Frank
Stockwell, William
Thatcher, Charles Seeley, P. M.
Thomas, George Washington
Thomson, Frederick G.
Titus, Clarence Hugh
Toenjes, Adolpb U.
Tomblin, Eugene S.
Turner, David C.
Van Orman, John T.
Vawter, Edwin James, Jr., P. M.
Vawter, Edwin James, Sr.
Wagar, Milo Harry
Walker, Henry
Walter, Charles John
Warner, Louis Leroy
Watson, Wm. Arthur
Webster, Alfred Francis
Webster, Leon Sanford
Wells, Frank Oliver
Wenzloff, Grant Solomon
Wheeler, Seymour
White, Robert
Wilde, Thomas
Williams, Buel Hubert
Williams, Darius H.
Williams, Leonard Wilson
Wilson, Lawrence Henry
Wolff, Francis Carver, P. M.
Woodward, John Ward
Young, Lee Harry
Zerboni, Mark
-173

WITHDRAWN:
M.oore, Alfred James

Pittinger, Henry C.

SUSPENDED FOR
Farris, William T.

641

NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kiggens, Charles M.

DIED:
Clough, Harry

AMITY LODGE,

~o.

370.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Frid~y in each month.
2668 Mission Street.
OFFICERS:
Henry Charles Klevesahl, Master,
Richard Hugh Thompson, Sen. Deac.,
1018 Capp Street.
William Bovey Curtis, Jun. Deac.,
William Everett Wood, Sen. Ward., Walter Gay Campbell, Marshal,
Rudolph Frederick Lange, Jun. W., Russell Irvin Wisler, Steward,
August Lewis Zett, Treasurer,
John William Hatch, Steward,
Thomas Walter Walker, Secretary, Richard Cain, Tyler.
1006 Pine Street.
MEMBERS:
Alberti, Lawrence Boyer
Binning, John Henry
Alexander, Frank Forsythe
Black, James John
Blanc, Stewart Alexander
Annear, John Asket
Armbruster, Rudolph Herman
. Bohr, Rudolph Henry Oscar
Armstrong, Elbridge Robertsoii
Boyd, James
Ashworth, Fred Drew
Boyle, Albert Edward
Augsburger, William Edward
Branford, Frank Giles
Babcock, Frank Leslie
Briggs, Walter David
Bruckermann, Frederick William
Baldwin, Walter Isaac
Buegge, Harry
Banzhaf, Harry Augustus
Barker, Thomas E.
Bultmann, Harry Edward
Burgess, Chandler William
Barreto, Robert Charles
Burgh, Gustav Joseph
Bass, James Clifford
Burton, Henry
Bauer, George Christian
Butler, Seth Lake
Bauer, John
Buttle, Clement Francis
Bell, Charles Edward
Buwaldo, Klaat Charles
Belser, Paul Arthur
Caddy, Richard Ernest Albert
Bernhard, Paul Peter
Cain, Richard, P. M.
Beugger, Julius Frederick
Campbell, Walter Gay
Benner, Harold Phineas
Chalmers, Frank Calder
Billings, Lucius H.
41

642

ROSTER

Gunn, John William, Jr.
Chamberlin, Howard Hector
Itamilton, Charles A.
Cheney, Lemuel Wi1son
Hammerson, Percy Luke
Coldwell, Turman Otto
Hanna, Wm. James
Conklin, Elmer Hedges
Harper, Andrew
Conyers, Horace
Hasselbach, Henry Christopher
Cooper, Benjamin Francis
Hatch, J olm William
Corbin, Oliver Lee
Hatfield, Samuel
Cordes, Herman John
Hause, Edward Washington, Jr.
Crew, Charles Edward
Head, :F'redrick
Crowhurst, Fred 'k Samuel
Henry, Raymond Manning
Cullen, James
ltermitage, William Henry
Curtis, Clarence Edgar
1Iiller, Fredrick Michael
Curtis, William Bovey
Hiner, Charles Lamb ·
Cuthbert, Albert Henry
Hoffer, John B.
Daggett,. Leander Bradley
Hoffman, Ernest August
Dawes, Winfield August
Ho1fmeyer, Cordulus Henry
Dawson, George
Hoffman, Glen Thomas
Dearing, Jasper Newton
Hogberg, Henry
Disston, Arthur Dixon
Holcomb, Frank Herbert
Doherty, Harry John
Holst, Arthur Edward
Douglas, James
Howard, Virgil
Douglas, Walter Renick
Hunt, Oscar Fred
Dunbar, George August
Hunter, Henry Clay
Easson, William Lawson
Hutchinson, George Richard
Eaton, Clarence Edward
Jennings, Enos Charles
Ebbinghausen,· Alvin Henry
Jennings, James Washington
Edwards, George
Jensen, Olaf Martinez
Eichner, Johannes
Johnson, John Marencius
Ellenberger, Frederick August
Johnston, Thomas James
England, Harry Hillard
Johnston, William George
Engle, Frank Thomas
Kennedy, Robert Vance
Ewing, George Ross
Kidd, Elmore Allen
Field, Joseph Clifford
Kiefer, William Jacob
Fleck, William Alexander
Klevesahl, Henry Charles
Foster, Harold Turner
Klippel, William George
Freudenthal, Albert Charles
Kraus, Edward John
Furze, William Richard
Lancaster, Robert Jonas
Gardner, George Milville
Lange, Rudolph Frederick ·
Gardner, Raymond Charles
Lange, William Frederick
Gibson, Otis
Languetin, Emile Eugene
Gillmore, William Solomon
Leaman, William Tell
Girdwood, David
Lee, James Douglas
Girtner, Alfred
Glasson, Wm. Charles Worthington Lemon, James Arthur
Lichty, Elza Lawrence
Gruttner, Albert Theodor.,

ROSTER
Lillie, Clarence Belcher
Perry, Charles
Loughery, Robert Johnston, P . M.
Peterson, Edwin Theodore
Loveland, William Jay, P. M.
Pfaff, Christian
Lynn, Theodore Ayen1
Pierce, Eugene Irving
Mackenzie, Frank Joseph
Putnam, James Wainwright
MacKenzie, John Campbell Bruce
RMmussen, John Charles
Mackins, Ernest Sidney
Rau, Benjamin Franklin
Mahan, Albert Henry
Reed, Alfred Alvin
Maison, Lewis Arthur
Reeves, Charles Dowdell
Marckley, Claudis Ardis
Rehn, George
Maritz, Paul
Rentschler, Pred John
Markel, Howard Hill
Rey, Leon Martin
Mccallum, Harold Howard
Richards, Russell Dodge
Mccallum, John H .
Rivers, Edwin Wesley
Mccready, Stephen Moody
Rock, Lee Loveridge
' McDonald, Byron DeWitt, P. M.
Rose, James
McDonald, Rober t :F'ranklin
Rowland, Albert
McDonald, Silvester John
Roxby, George Stanley
McDowell, William Andrew
Russell, Norman
·M~.HP.nry, Thomas
Salter, John Westley
McKenzie, ·william Hayward
Salter, Richard Mathew ·
McKinne, 'Andrew Barna
Sammann, Paul Ester
McLennan, David Middleton TuckerSanford, Frank Willis
McNally, Arthur James
Savage, William Daniel
McPherson, John F.
Saw, Frederick William
Mead, William Frederick
Scamell, Arthur Ernest
Melchoir, Henry
Schaffner, Paul Frederick, P. M.
Melvin, Alfred David
Scharrenberg, Paul
Meyer, Frederick William
Schcppler, Ernest John
Millar, Robert Forrester
Schott, William John
Miller, .Tohn Harper
Schubert, Charles Edward William
Moller, Louis Henry
Schultz, Ferdinand Conrad
Moller, William Daniel
Schultz, Frederick William
Morgan, John William
Scott, Royal Clyde
Murphy, Henry James
Seagrave, Joseph
Neil, Walter Scott
Seibert, John Clute
Nelson, An.d rew
Shea, Charles Perine
Nelson, William Wilks
Shepston, George Grant
Norman, Edward Peter
Siess, Richard
Osthotr, Henry William
Silliman, Geo. Edward
Palmer, George J.
Sivertsen, Charles Olof
Parker, Lewis Lansing
Skoog, Sidney Paul
Park inson, Richard
Slack, Enoch
Parisien,· Emile Otto
Smith, Bert James
Paulson, Paul l\farnus
Smith, John Sorensen

643

ROSTER
Smith, Ross Richard
Smith, Rudolph Adam
Smith, Thomas Boarman
Spilker, Adolph Gustav
Stahle, Charles August
Stahle, Harold John
Stanton, William Palmer, P. M.
Stark, Edward Seraphine
Stephenson, Edward, P. M.
Stockman, Ralph
Strawbridge, Chester Wright
Strawbridge, Wilber Styles
Struven, Frederick Christian
Swofford, Tyson Keener
Symons, Charles
Taylor, Edward Tomlinson
Taylor, Frank Percival
Taylor, Frank Tomlinson
Thompson, Clyde Arthur
Thompson, Richard Hugh
Thurston, Charles Martin
Tomkins, Joseph George
Trautvetter, Alexander Otto
Trotman, Wesley Brynjolff
Upham, Walter Fuller

Robinson, Harding Ellison

Upham, Walter Sumner
Wachtman, Frederick James
Waite, Alfred ·N apier
Wales, James Henry
Walker, Thomas Walter
Wara, George Andrew
Warren, George Irving
Webster, David Frank
W eisker, Emil Richard
Whiteside, William
Wigney, Benjamin Arthur
Wilkes, Alfred
Williams, Enoch R.
Williams, William Jerome
Wisler, Russell Irvin
Wisnom, John
Woll, Charles
Wood, Frederick Henry
Wood, William Daniel
Wood, William Everett
Wythe, Frederick Stephen
Yardley, George Warner '
Young, John Edwin
Zett, August Lewis, P. M.
-271

WITHDRAWN:
Wetzel, Hermann

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Coppinger, Clarence
Englehardt, Alexander
Lynam, Thomas James

Bittencourt, Thomas Marion

645

ROSTER

644

DIED:
Borkwardt, Herman William

OCEANIC LODGE, No. 371.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated meetings, last Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Henry Goetz, Master,
Ed Towse, Chap/aiii,
P. 0. Box 344, Honolulu, H. T.
Lawrence Alfred K err, Sen. Deac.,
Gustav Carl Bechert, S enior Warden, William Love Moore, Jun. Deac.,
George Samuel Curry, ffm. Ward.,
John Christian Wagner, Marshal,
Carel Justus De Roo, Treasurer,
John Smyth, Steward,
Ross Hamilton Bemrose, Secretary, Alfred Doane Fairweather, Steward,
725 Quarry Street.
Charles Henry Thurston, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderman, Henry Fred Wm. Geo., Jr.Crowley, David William
Andrade, Joseph
Curry, George Samuel
Armitage, Harry
Davis, George Anthony
Ashbahr, Louis ;F'r_a nk
Dayton, David Kalakaua
Atwood, Ozro Millard
Dee, Lawerence Henry
Baldwin, Herman James
Denison,
Norwood
Bechert, Gustav C!Lrl
DeRoo, ·Carel J'ustus ·
Bellina, Charles Henry
Detor, JC?hn Demetrios
Bemrose, Ross Hamiltoi:i, P. M.
Dillingham, Benjamin Franklin
Blanchard, Edward Bates
Dollive~, Henry Calvin
Blom, John Albion
Durant, Albert Allen
Blum, Robert
Edlund, Frank G.
Bockus, Charles Gerald, P. M.
Fairweather, Norman Stanley, P. M.
Boisse, Gaston Jo.hn
F arrington, Wallace Ryder, P. M.
Boµ, Charles, P. M.
Fisher, William Lunkin
Bosson, Charles Lewis
Gartley; Alonzo Floyd
Bowler, John Francis
Gehring, Henry
Breckons, Robert Warren
Geracemos, George Nicholas
Brown, Edgar Marion
Goetz, William Henry, P. M.
Buckley, John
Ham, William Albert
Capilos, Anargyros
Harrison, Frederick
Capilos, Demosthenes
Jlatch, Frank Lewis
Chillingworth, Charles F.
Haughs, David Michell
Clark, Albion Fisher
Hayselden, Harold Thomas
Clark, Arthur William
Henry, William
Collins, John Robert .
Hottel, Charles Oliver
Coney, John Hawkes
Hundley, Samuel Napoleon
Coulter, George Thomas
Hurtt, Allen Milton
Craw, Roy Alexander
Jesse~t, William

Rarey

ROSTER
Johnson, Edmund
Johnson, Merle McNaughton, P. M.
Johnson, Samuel
Johnson, William Paul
Kelly, Thomas
Kenake, William Chafl'e
Kerr, Lawrence Alfred
Ketcheson, John Henry
Lee, Charles White
Levenson, James David
Mackenzie, James Harris
McCoy, William Craig
McDonald, Angus Paul
Menefoglio, Alfred
Merrill, Charles Francis
Mills, Harry Thomas
Moore, William Love
Morgan, Ernest James, P. M.
Morris, Reade Horras L.
Neely, Arthur Webber
Neimann, Ernest Rudolph
Norton, Benjamin Hale, P. M.
Palmer, Edward
Palmer, John Aurelius, P. M.
Perry, John M.
Pfeiffer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Piltz, George Henry
Pollister, Raymond Storey
Pratt, Joseph George
Raphael, Hyman
Reinecke, Henry Hel'man Martin

Andrews, George
Du Bose, Tascar Polk

Rosenberg, Isadore
Schutte, John
Schwarte:, Joseph
Schwarzberg, Elmer Louis
Shingle, J ames Frederick
Shodahl, August Oscar
Simerson, Aaron Cook
Smith, Joseph Alexander
Smith, William Henry
Smyth, John
Spitzer, Arthur J oseph
Spitzer, Sidney
Stearns, Benjamin Crouchley
Strohlin, Charles H anford
Thurston, Charles Henry
Tinker, Alfred Edward
Towse, Ed., P. M.
'l'reailway, Harry Gorman
Treuer, Henry
Wagner, John Chri11tian
Waldron, Frederick
Watson, John B.
Watt, Henry Chorley
Webber, Alva S.
West, Frederick B.
White, William George
Whitehead, Orlando John
Williams, James John
Winant, Elmer Terry
Wri!{ht, Clyde Elroy
Wright, George Scott
-120

WITHDRAWN :
Eaton, William L.
Sackwitz, Charles Frederick
EXPELLED:
Brown, Embert Morelli

Davis, David Henry
McGrail, William Paul (F. C.)

DIED:
Nott, John
Toussaint, Louis Mathew

,_

ROSTER

G47

GARDENA LODGE, No. 372.
Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, First Tuesday in . each month.
OFFICERS:
J ohn D. Green, Chaplain,
William Walton Pitman, Ma&ter,
William Hi:rbert Wood, Se11. Deac.,
Moneta, C.al.
Edward Odell Weed, Junior Deaco11,
Walter Simpson, Senior Wardeti,
Thomas Clarence Pitman, flm. W., Frank Landrom Steele, Marshal,
H arry James Wood, Steward,
J ohn H. Bathrick, Treasurer,
J ohn Lawrence Russ.ell, Steward,
Robert J ames Rodgers, Secretf1ry,
James E. Longacre, Tyler.
Gardena, Cal.

Bathrick, John H.
Bathrick, William J .
Beem, Abner Lyman
Biggart, Thomas
Bodger, John Charles
Bodger, Tom Marks
Bodgcr, Walter
Burgin, William J.
Clark, Francis Marion
Cowles, Newton E.
Crear, James R.
Christian, Henry L ,
Day, John Warren
Dodgll, Francis E.
Dodge, Roy· James
Dunn, John Murphy
Dwire, Francis B.
Eaton, Harry Russell
Elsey, Francis Ra,Epperly, J . W.
Fanning, Beri
GaTdner, Arthur J.
Gibson, Addison H.
Green, John D.
Green, William Henry
Hann, AJ.®iw FraJWiil, P. M.
Hawkins, Leland Barllilll

MEMBERS:
Hewett, Chester Frederick
Jacobs, Charles .Elmer
Jawbs, Mark Reginald
Klasgye, John W.
Longacre, J ames E.
Mccarrell, Walter E., P. M.
McNeish, Robert Homer
Michaelis, Adolph William
Michael, George M.
Miller, Charles Frederick
MohT, Adam Bard
Mohr, Edward Bard
Olsen, Andrew Chriatian
Outcalt, Chas. l1)ei:l
Pitman, ThomAB C.
Pitman, Walter Walton
Pitman, William
Robbins, Arthur Lafayette
Robe.rte, William
Rodgers, Robert J~mes
Russell, John Lawrence
Sawyer, Joseph A.
Simpson, Walter
Spencer, John Foster, P. M.
Steele, Frank La1'41Dllll
Stevenson, ChristiPpl;ler Ward
Struthers, Andrew .lai:k.s.<tn

. !

648

ROSTER

Tilt, George A.
Towne, Dannel N., P, M.
Tuck, Frank Milton
Tucker, Jay Thompson

Weed, Edward Odell
West, Lowry _Earl
Wood, Harry James
Wood, William Herbert

ROSTER

-62

VETERAN LODGE, No. 373.
Sawtelle, Los Angeles County,
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Andrew E. Diebold, Master,
Edwin W. Mecum, Chaplain,
Westgate, Cal.
Gerald A. Porter, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas Price, Senior Warden,
John W. Wearne, Junior Deacon,
Perry L. Fallis, lunio.r Warden,
Harry B. Ford, Marshal,
Ira Pierce, Treasurer,
Herbert B. Reid, Steward,
Cyrus L. Edinger, Sf!cretary,
John A. Vriesman, Steward,
Sawtelle, Cal.
Augustus Hickethier, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Attrell, Fletcher I.
Axtell, Charles Henry
Badger, Norman Nash
Baker, Luther J,
Ball, Charles Edward
Bales, Alfred W.
Bly, Carl Don
Bottomfield, Sheridan
Bowerman, Nelson
Boyer, Eugene Franklin
Boyer, Leonard Bell
Butler, Irvin Cornelius
Calhoun, Ezra
Carnegie, Archibald
C111rk, David
Conkling, Frank E.
Cowan, Earnest Asa
Curtin, Thomas
Dewes, Elisha
Denton, Samuel S. ·
Depler, Charles
Depler, Hugh Scott
Diebold, Andrew E.
Dickley, Frederick
Dills, George Abdiel

Dobbings, John Henry, P. M.
Drew, George
Driggs, Morgan
Eagler, Charles E.
Edinger, Cyrus Lloyd, P. M,
Edwards, Edward Frederick
Elliott, Matthew
Elser, Frederick
Fallis, Perry Leroy
Flanery, David ·
Ford, Harry Garfield
Ford, Ira Beebe
Frame, James Merrill
Freeman, Henry K
Gerrard, Arthur Moine
Gilford, Andrew Jackson
Gill, Edmund Roy
Gill, George Ellerson
Gilmore, Hiram
Graham, John B,
Gregory, William Elmore
Guffin, Allen R.
Guidinger, August Matthew
Haas, William
Hall, William B.

Hickethier, Augustus
Haskell, William
Hasse, Herman E.
Heagy, Harvey Washington
Heckler, Henry Adams
Hill, Fred Axtell
Horsnell, Fred
Horton, Schuyler Daniel
Householder, Samuel D.
Hromadka, August B., P. M.
Hudson, Arthur
Hurlbut, Henry Alonzo
Huston, ]'rank H.
Huston, Jesse Eli
Jenkins, Robert
Jones, Guy Clifford
Kelly, Arthur
King, Abraham Lincoln
Laing, Robert Douglass
Lambert, James Riley
Launsberry, William
Lear, Peter R.
Leavers, John Estee
Lefevri, Joseph P.
Lamoreaux, Chas.
Lindsey, Arthur Young
L'Etoile, John
Loar, James Alexander
Logsdon, James Albert
Lutkins, Frank H.
Martin, Fred Jacob
May, William Wallace
Morgan, Richard William
Mortensen, Wm. Soren
Mudge, Edwin Elmore
Muller, Albert Rudolph
Murch, John Wesley
Murphy, Thomas
Myrick, Mack Henry
Nellis, Clarence Jones, P. M.
Nirk, Sydney
Osborn, Joel Edgar, P. M.
Parsons,. Norton Jason
Peck, George William
Pierce, Ira

649

Piety, Stephen Thos.
Price, Edward Westwood
Porter, Gerald Aubrey
Price, Thomas
Prichard, Martin Howard
Pritchard, Sydney Herbert
Putnam, Roy Griswold, P. M.
Reeves, William Pitt
Rhoda, August J.
Rice, Sumey Allen
Richards, Charles Carson
Richardson, William
Roseburgh, Allen
Sagar, Thomas William
Schaap, Wm. Howard
Scott, Wm. Alexander
Seager, Frederick Waller
Seward, Ollie A.
Shade, Marvin Robert
Shull, Geo. Cookman
Sigman, Marcus H.
Skilling, Edward Hamilton
Smith, John Lewis
Sonnesyn, PetP.r Herman
Stilson, Seth
Stilson, William Merle
Ten Eyck, James Campbell
Thompson, John Alexander
Tull, Gilbert
Tyler, Charles Edmond
Vriesman, Joannes Adriaan
Wait, Dudley Monroe
Waggoner, Lewis S.
Wakefield, John Carl
Walsh, George Carl
Waltmeyer, Thomas H.
Wearne, John Wm.
Wheeler, William Daniel
White, Calvin Norman
Whitson, Levi H.
Whitson, Lincoln Lee
Wilson, Charles August
Wilson, George C.
Wilson, Frank M.
Worcester, Edward Payson
-140

ROST EB

ROSTER

650

WITHDRAWN:
Han, Edwin A.
Webb, Elwood Townsend

Arnold, Edwin A.
Cherry, Jessie Byron

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Eartlett, Thomes H.
Keener, James P.
Howard, William Green
Schultz, Henry
Warren, James Riley
EXPELLED:
Caskey, Hell.ry Clay (E. A.)

Elliott, Clarence Cleveland

DIED:
West, Robert L.
Williams, Isaac

JEWEL LODGE, No. 37+
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
G-0lden Gate Hall.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Edward Levin, Master,
Thomas Frederick H eam, Sen. Deac.,
124 Geary Street.
Albert A. Greenbaum, Jun. Deac.,
Burnside Cromwell, Senior Warden, Louis Paul Pfer<iner, Marshal,
H enry Spence Fiterre, Jun. Wa,.den, Curtis Benton, Steward,
John Jacob Mundwyler, Treasµ.rer, Theophile S. Boehm, Stewai·d,
Henry F. Wright (Starr King No.
Charles Shaw True, Secretary,
344), Tyler.
260 Twenty-sixth Avenue.
:MEMBERS:
Anderson, Per AJ:el
Davidson, Arthur Douglas, P. M.
Bellmann, Heinrich Ernest
De Boer, Albert
Benton, Curtis
Evans, Frank Arden
Blodgett, Sainuel Omeill, l'. M.
Finley, William Hugh
Boehm, Theophile Sigismund
Fiterre, Henry SpeJJ.ce
Braendlin, John Comad
Galloway, WHey Kimball
Bruck, Leo, P . M.
Gassaway, Crosby Mitchell
Butler, Alfred Joli,ne
Geba11e, Isiilore Henry
Casassa, Charles Henry
Gee; Arthur Telford
Cohn, Max
Greenbaum, Albert . .A.braham
Cromwell, Btir!j.jiiQ.e, P. M.
Gruenberg, Carl

Hearn, Thomas Frederick
Heller, Herman
Hughes, Walter Robert
Hunt, Fred A.
Jaulus, Bernat
Kahn, Leon Lippman
Kenney, Gerald
Lachman, Herbert Fred 'k
La~hman, Ja.'cob
Lachman, Louis
Lada, Edward B.
Langenberger, Charles H. F.
Lerond, George Weston
Levin, Emanuel Monroe
Levin, Joseph
Levin, Maurice Everett
Levy, Louis
Levy, Mark Eugene, P. M.
Lindley, Paul Jay
Lynngreen, Alfred Lawrence
MacCleverty, Charles Coleman
Mahood, Caduceus J. W.
Monsseri, Per
Morey, Arthur Snow
Mundwyler, John Jacob
Nevin, Washington
Newbauer, Julia_n Herman
Newbauer, Louis
Nolting, Edward A.

601

Norcross, Frank Gilman
Nowell, Howard Wallace
Pferdner, Louis Paul
Piccirillo, Francisco Dominico
Pinkson, Leon Jacob
Platt, Elisha Allworth
Previati, Louis Joseph
Rau, Fred'k Robert Jacob
Rice, William Henry, Jr.
Roth, Paul
Rusk, William Gee
Schuh!, Sylvain
Severi, Gino
Siebenhauer, Salomon
Simpson, Joseph Dodd
Snell, John Arthur, P. M.
Solomon, Baruch
True, Charles Shaw
Walling, Richard William
Walt en, Maximilan Ferdinand
Walters, Benj&min
Wayman, Mark
Weissbaum, Gustav
Wiley, Herbert
Williams, Ernest George
Winkley, Walter William
Wippern, Chas. Theophile
Wright, Dexter Y.
Zeh, Frederic Christoph
-10

RICHMOND LODGE, No. 375.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, :first Mon<lay in each month.
Clement and First Avenue.
OFFICERS:
William Henry Standart, Chaplriin,
Luther Sanborn, M aster,
Sol J acob Levy, Sen: D eacon,
71 Seventh Avenue.
William Albert Burdick, Sen. Ward., J oshua John Haroom, Jun. De<J.con,
Charles Frederitk Werner, Marshal,
Angus Mackillop, Jwnior Warden,
Grant tt'ee, Stewa,.-d,
John Fau~l, Treasurer,
H avelock Fourness, Secretary,
John Alfred Johnson, Steward,
George F. Baum, Tyler.
460 Eighth Avenue.

652

ROSTER
ROSTER

Arey, Minord Thresher
Barth, August Herman
Baum, George S.
Becker, Walter Frank
Bennett, Arthur William
B.irnard, James Cumming
Betz, Uhas. Fred 'k
Bidwell, Walter Edmund, P. M.
Bielawski, Hugo Theodor
Billingsley, Urban Clark
Binkley, Earle Waldo
Bleily, Alban Centenial
Booyer, Percy Tyler
Borland, Robert
Bovard, Portens Spence
Bradley, Albert Allan
Bradley, Charles ·c1arence
Bransford, Edgar McDowell
Bright, Solomon Louis·
Brown, Abner Wolcott
Brown, Calvin Daniel
Brown, William George
Brownlee, John P.
Burbeck, Julius Lee
Burbeck, William
Burdick, William Albert
Burtchaell, John William
Caine, Albert Howland
Calhan, Alvin Lane
Chester, Theo. Watkin
Christianson, .John Marius
Clark, Henry Augustus
Clark, Henry Graham
Clark, James Wm.
Clark, William Arnett
Collins, Asa Weston
Collis, William John
Comegys, Lloyd C.
Conner, James Henry
Corkery, Wm. Steven
Crane, Douglass Barnitz, p; M.
Crothers, Ralph
Crothers, Wm. Henry

MEMBERS:
Cushman, Harry Eldridge
Davies, George Andrew
Dayton, William Andrew
Dellwig, Ed. James
Diebold, August Lucien
Diebold, Charles Clovis
Dodson, Edward Milton
Donnelly, Audley Francis
Duncan, Earle James
Douglass, Louis Bradley
Dunsing, Louis
Eldridge, Edward Le Roy
Erb, Louis Francis
Fairweather, John Henrv
Faubel, John
·
Fawcett, Pleasant E.
Fee, Grant
Finlayson, James Alex.
Fischer, Ernest Louis, P. M.
Fisher, Steuart Leonard
Flood, Austin Grant
J!'ossay, George Francis ·
Foster, Jesse Clark T.
Foster, Robert
Fourness, Havelock
Freirmuth, Henry Hervey .
Frideriksen, Peter
Gillespie, George Graham, P. M.
Gless, Jules Paul
Goetting, Charles Lawrence P. M.
Gosling, Ernest Pierce
'
Grimm, Harry, Jr.
Grimm, Lewis Robert
Gunn, Learuder Chalmer
Halek, Geo. Lyle
Hamerton, Alfred Chas.
lJamilton, John Williams
Hanton, Alfred George
Harcom, Joshua John
Harrison, James E. D.
Henderson, John Malcolm
Hendricks, Edward Marshall
Hobart, Oliver S.

Hollingshead, Frank
Hicks, Herbert Harrie
Hinds, Hiram Conlee
Inglis, Paris Leach
Ingram, Robert Henry
Isbell, George F.
Isbell, Henry LaSell
Jackson, Albert Ernest
Jackson, George Benjamin
Jamieson, Walter Scott
Jeffrey, Andrew
Jenkins, Edward Charles
Jessen, Christian Frederick
Johnson, John Alfred
Johnson, John Hobart
Johnson, Shirley Wayman
John~on, Walter S.
Jones, Frederic Charles
Junker, Frederick, Jr.
Keil, Edward August
Kennedy, Daniel Webster
Kenny, William Rowland
Kerr, John
Klint, Anton Henry
Knox, Leslie Henry
Kutsch, John
Lance, Goodman Harvey
Landers, Milton Hagaman
Langpaap, Hugo
Larkins, James Alex.
Larsen, Louis Albert, P. M.
Lawrence, Stephen
Lawson, John Finlay
Leigh, James Henry
Levy, Sol Jacob
Liechti, Arnold W.
Longwill, John
Lowrey, Robert Denton
Lucy, Roscoe Warren
Lyon, Walter Thomas
Mackillop, Andrew P.
Mackillop, Angus
Mnekillop, Angus W,
Mackillop, Archibald D.
Maddux, Parker Simmons

Mann, James Munroe
Mardis, Benjamin Allen
McCarthy, Charles Francis
McClaine, Millard Andrew
McDonald, Frank Poole
McGowan, Henry Clay
McKeown, Andrew
McMullen, Irving H.
McPhail, Roy Kenneth
Mehrtens, Louis
Menke, William
Miller, George Antone
Miller, Geo. Wm.
Moore, Harry Christen
Morris, Alfred Thomas
Morris, Robert
Mortimer, Charles Smith·
Morton, Robert Lincoln
Munday, Chalmer C., P. M.
Nelson, Fernando
Nelson, Frank Fernando
Nelson, William A.
Newburgh, Henry
.Niemeyer, Harry Albert
~oe, John Edward
Norgrove, Richard Lester
Nystrom, Charles Alfred
0 'Connell, Pa trick James
Orme, Bernard William
Osborne, Gordon Chas.
Osborne, Reginald J. T.
Phelps, Orio
Pomeroy, George Spencer
Pratt, John Haraden
Pue, Douglass Forrest
Purdy, Frederic
Rainey, Edwin Samuel
Rainey, Frank
Reaside, Henry Robert
Riley, Allen James
Riley, Martin Painter
Reinhold, Edgar Loui~
Robinson, Charles Francis
Roge:rs, John Washington
Roop, Frank Pomeroy

653

654

·ROSTER

Rothermel, Frederick Charles
Sanborn, Luther
Scheer, George
Schofield, William Frederick
Scott, William Stoddard
Seaton, Edward Monroe
Seccombe, Arthur Henry
Seibel, Herbert Carl
Sessions, Charles Benjamin
Shorb, Orren Eclwar.d
Signor, Arthur Montgomery
Simpson, Max
Skan, Jorgen Wissen
Skillicorn, Arthur Edward
Slocumb, Hall
Smith, Benjamin Joe)
Smith, John William
Standart, William Henry
Stobzenwalcl, Ruclolf F.
Steffens, George Winfield
Stevenson, Edwin John
Stewart, Joel Lemley
Stoltz, Chas. Malcolm
Stone, Leonard
Strange, Ralph Rae·
Sturtevant, George Abram
Swanson, Victor
Taylor, Frank James
Temple, Jnme!I Howard
Theisen, Adolph Ralph
Thompson, Clarence P.

ROSTER

Thompson, John E.
Thornagle, Alex. James
'richnor, Austin K.
Trefz, Adolph Gustav
Vincent, Laurence
Vinson, Joseph Carroll
Walker, Joshua
Walldorf, Ha.rry
Walters, William John
Walther, Adolph Robert
Wardell, Justus S.
Watson, Oscar Joseph ·
Webber, Leslie Albert
Werner, Charles Frederick
Werner, Philip
W essitsch, Alexander
Whelden, Alexander Whelden
Whiteside, Roscoe Rex
Wholey, William N.
Wihr, Max George
Willey, George Henry
Wilson, Joseph Arthur
Wratten, Albert Drummond
Wratten, Frank Lawrence
Yager, Philip
Yager, William Washington
Young, Eclward Livingston
Zietich, Antone
Zobel, Alfred Jacob
Zobel, Jacob
Zobel, Newton Robert
-238

FRANCIS DRAKE LODGE, No. 376.
South San Francisco, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Philip Kauffmann, Master, Charles Young, Chaplain,
South San Francisco.
H. Thomas Allen, Sen. Deacon,
Ephraim Nixon Brown, Sen. Ward., George A. D. Kneese, Jun. Deacon,
William W. McDonald, J11n. Ward., Geo." William Holston, Marshal,
Fred Alonzo Cunningham, Treas., John Arnold Riordan, Steward,
Joseph Gardner Walker, Secretary, Henry Fletcher Mengledorff, Stew.,
South San Francisco.
John Guerra, Tyler.

WITHDRAWN:
Baptist, Joseph

Glick, Henry
Petcovich, George Jerome

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jordan, Joe H enry
Longwill, David Cleveland
Wehe, Alfred Wood

655

j

MEMBERS:
McDonald, George Franklin, P. M.
Ailen, H. Thomas
Bresnan, Timothy
McDonald, John James, P. M.
McDonald, Wm. Winthrope
Britton, George Ed.
Money, Walter Sydney
Broner, Peter David
Brown, Ephraim Nixon
Nesbitt, William John
Newberry, George Andrew
Cavassa, Harry Alexander
Coffenberry, Wm. Henry
Nunes, Frank C.
Coombes, Samuel Arthur
0 ' Toole, Francis Patrick
Patchell, Robert Kelso
Cosper, Volney Bernard
Cunningham, Fred Alonzo, P. M.
Patten, David RobA-t
Davis, Charles William
·
Perham, George Lawrence
Dennison, Leoniclas Richardson
Plymire, David Brandley
Plymire, liarry Garritson
Dessin, Harry W.
Riordan, John Arnold
Edwards, Frank Porter, P. M.
Eschelback, Albert Joseph
Schneider, William Charles
Guerra, John
Scott, Abbe Percival
Hamsher, Clarence F.
Silbreed, Peter
Smith, Du Ray
Holston, George William, P. M.
Hoon, Malcom James
Snyder, Jesse Oglevee, P. M.
Hynding, Andrew
Styles, Harry Eckford
Swinkoski, Fred Vincent
Jenevein, August Jacob
Taylor, James
Jensen, Mattrup
·Utt, James Garfield
Jensen, Peter Fred 'k
Kauffmann, Alfred E.
Vanomen, Arnold
Kauffmann, Charles Louis
Waibel, John Ellard
Kauffmann, Edward Philip
Walker, Joseph Gardner
Lawson, Edwin Richard
Wilson, Robert Alex.
Ludermann, Adolph Fred
Young, Charles
Martin, David Greenleaf
Zulk, Carl J.
Martin, William James
--59

ROSTER

657

ROS'rER

ARTESIA LODGE, No. 377.

Thowson, Elias
Ward, John Edward
Ward, Pirl Thomas

Artesia, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Ml<~MBERS:

Frampton, Walter Nelson
Felts, George Wesley
Gamble, Grant Elmer
Oamble, Guy Bennett, P. M.
Gillespie, Edwin Grant
Gordon, Huntly Lennox
Hall, Walter Townsend
Hancock, Fielden
Hurley, William Walter
Marchbank, Robert Bruce
McKinney, Myron Robert
Mills, John Benjamin
Morgan, James Madison
Morse, Fred Theo.
Newcomb, Gewin
Niemes, John Herman
Noon, Ernest Eugene
Norton, Frank Logan
Purdy, Fred Hiram, P. M.
Randall, Jay Elisha
Riave, Louis Ruben, P. M.
Rockwell, Horace Hinmann
Sackett, William Alford, Jr.
Sackett, Joseph David
Sanderson, Andrew Jessie
Scheifele, William Leander
Smith, Jay Guy
Smith, William Harvey
Stanfield, Henry Milton

-64

DIED:
Sackett, William A., Sr.

OFFICERS:
Guy Bennett Gamble, Master,
Pirl Thomas Ward, Chaplain,
Artesia.
H orace Hinman Rockwell, S . Deac.,
Walter Donnelly, Senior Warden, Ernest Eugene Noon, Jun. Deac.,
Wm. Leander Scheifele, Jun. Ward., William Leavens Jencks, Marshal
William Harvey Smith, Treasurer, Joseph Irving Keith, Steward,
'
Albert Todd Frampton, Secretary, Franklin Frampton, Steward,
Artesia.
Grant Elmer Gamble, Tyler.

Albrecht, Charles
Ashleigh, Frank Dunette
Ball, Walter Alfred
Bingham. Robert William
Byng, Benjamin Francis
Carse, Levi
Corum, Ralph Halbrook
Costner, Albert Morris
Courtney, Joseph Edwin
Courtney, Zenith Maywood
Cox, Robert Matthew
Craig, Clarence Elliot
Dempsey, Thomas Ewing
Desmond, Fred
Dodd, James Henry
Dodd, William Frederick
Dohn, Phillip Carl
Dolley, Rolland Evert
Donnelly, Walter
Dougherty, Churles
Dougherty, James Lewis
Elliott, Paul Shadrach
Foote, Ralph Chester
Foster, John Thomas
Frampton, Albert Todd
Frampton, Arthur Edwin
Frampton, Douglas Lighton
Frampton, Franklin
Frampton, George Reed, P. M.

Watts, George Newton
Whipple, Carl Howard, P. M.
Woodward, Samuel Gideon

MIZPAH LO.DGE, No. 378.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
MRBonic Temple.
OFFICERS:

Harry Alonzo Fulsom, Master,
Holcomb Rhees MacLafferty, Chap.,
4423 Mettler Street.
Forney Edwin Burt, Sen. Deacon,
George Rowland Harrison, S. Ward., Ben Ridgeway Ward, Jun. Deacon,
·Frank Henry Stitt, Jun . Warden, Gale Bonney, Marshal,
Carl Allen Stutsman, Treasurer,
Benson F. Tallman, Steward,
Clyde Otis Linn, Secretary,
Lyman Braumbaugh Stookey, Stwd.,
650 E. Twenty-third Street.
Adolph Jules Maas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Blackburn, Irwin William
Alderson, Francis Earl
Blackburn, Samuel Garfield
Allen, Harry Clinton, Sr~
Blaylock,
Galvin H arvey
Altom, Arthur Abner
Bonney, Carl
. Anderson, August Theodore·
Bonney, Gale
Anderson, Edward Wirte
Booth, George, Jr.
Andrews, Fred Lantzenhiser
Booth, George, Sr.
Andrews, Samuel Canon
Boyd, Ambrose
Avery, Edwin Henry Butte
Boyd, Charles Arthur
Babcock, William Wesley
Borkheim,
Milton
Bacheller, Horace Charles
Bowe, Martin Ralph
Baker, Fred
Bowen, Albert John
Baker, Samuel Luther
Bowers, Alexander Oscar
Bardwell, Horatio !ohn
Bowman, Arthur Eugene
Barnard, Albert William
Brigham, Frank Hartwell
Barnett, William Brant
Brisco, Wilfred
Barraclough, Geo.' Alfred
Brock, Allison Arthur
Battram, Henry Samuel
Brogan, Joseph Andrew
Beall, Jesse Thos.
Brown, Albert Allen
Benge, Ellis Elton ·
Brown, Francis N.
Bt>nnett, Herbert Lafayette
42

658
Brown, James Leonidas
Brown, Oroville Eli
Brown, Theodore Stanley
Browning, Finley
Browning, J. Edwaru
Brµce, Albert Williatte
Bruce, Frank Leander
Bullmer, Charles
Burt, Don Cameron
Burt, Forney Edwin
Bush, William Jay
Butland, John Charles
Butland, Luke
Calder, Hugh Forrest
Calder, James William, P. M.
Campbell, Otis Augustus
Carroll, Frank Daniel
Cass, Ernest Dee
Castleman, Casey Martin
Chollar, James Ralph
Chri,stiansen, Carl
Colton, George Felt
Colyear, Curtis Calhoun
Comport, Herbert Chas.
Cooper, William Frank, Ji;,
Cotton, Lendel Merritt
Couchman, Harry Hanver
Cranston,. Charles S.
Creciat, Charles Henry
Creciat, George Lee
Creciat, William Lewis
Cresmer, Carimon Judson
Crocker, Rowland Harris
Cromer, George Frederick
Davies, Edward Wm.
DeBlois, Fred 'k Henry
Dickerson, Edgar Ashbury
Dille, Clinton Francisco
Ditty, Thomas Ross
Dodd, George Melville
Donaghy, Frederick
Donaghy, George
Donahue, William Henry
Downe, Alexander Byers
Edwards, John

ROSTER
Ehlers, William Henry
England, Walt.o n Sherman
Ernsberger, Raymond J.
Felt, Arthur Bullard
Fisher, Charles Dewees
Fisher, John Meander
Fisher, William Frank
Fitch, Harry Jay Maynard
Fletcher, Joel Conklin
Fragner, Donald
Frampton, James Alex., Jr.
Frankston, Robert
Freedman, Gustave
Fry, Arthur B.
Fulsom, Harry Alonzo
Gabriel, Basil Simon
Gain, Oliver J.
Gardner, Arthur Clayton
Gates, Louis Douglas
Gattone, Domenico
Gifford, Alrien Wilson
Gillespie, Richard Johnson
.Goge, Max
Golding, George Washington
Gonzalez, Alvin Ralph
Goodan, Roger
Goodman; Hugo James
Goodreau, Thomas Jones
Gordon, George Barr
Gough, Fred Hedreck
Groff, Lloyd Packer
Graham, Albert Edward
Graham, Alfred Henry
Graves, Wesley Richard
Green, Albert Price
Greene, Chas. Harold
Gregory, George Washington H.
Gresswell, Herbert Kemp
Griswold, Bertie Arthur
Guedemann, Reinhard Fred 'k, Jr.
HagPnbaugh, William Louis
Hammond, Claire Wesley
Harmon, Lloyd William, P. M.
Harris, Nicholas Boilvin
Harrison, George Rowland

ROSTER
Hart, Frank Layton
Hartson, John Loni.$
Hathaway, Dexter Uh"i;nberlain
Hermanns, Frank Joseph
Herron, Frank Cre.il
Hickock, Harry Carlos
Hickock, William Roy
Holland, Ulys.se11 Grant
Hood, Charlie Garfield
Hood, Glenn Caywood
House, Austin Reed
House, Beverly White
. House, John
Howard, Austin Fay
Hubbell, William Henry
Hughes, Joseph Robert
Hugo, Maurice L.
Hummell, William August
Hunter, Calvin Fillmore
Hurt, Alfred Deavor
Imus, Chas. Alfred
Irwin, Theodore John
Ivy, Jamea L1n1cnear, P. M .
Jackson, Cha:fles FranW,in
Jackson, Charles W.
Jacobs, Louis Bernard
Johnson, Pete:r Engelbert
Johnson, Wm. Gor!lon
Jones, Guy
Jones, Joseph
Jones, Thomas Lewie
Jowett, Oli~·er Atkinson
Keller, Leopold
Kennedy, James Henry
·Kent, Fred W .
Kersey, Richard Wakefield
Kidd, John E.
Kidwell, Oswald Gregory
King, Alma Lester
. King, Harry Wm.
Kittredge, Charles Heber Francis
Koehler, Philip Henry
Koontz, Ra;ymond Roscoe
Korn°gut, Samuel
Kremer, John

Kriege, Herman Rudolf Wm.
Krng, Walter
Laventhal, Leo Edward
Lembcke, Albert Emile
Lewis, George Myr\clt
Libby, Arthur Albion
Lindsay, Joseph Brown
Linn, Clyde Otis
Liston, John Grant
Lovell, Henry George Alder11ey
Luedke, Otto Reed
Mass, Adolph Julee
Mabry, Urb
MacLafferty, Halcomb R.
Mag11ire, James Harvey
Mansfield, Fred Alma
Marchese, Bartholomew, P. M.
Marcus, Oscar Rudol:ph
Marsh, Elmer Fra°l).cis
Marston, Edward
Martin, John Henry
Mathew, Lea
Mattern, George Stewart
May, Ora H.
Mayer, Chauncey Harrison M.
McClintock, Arthur Polk
McClure, John
McCuen, Thomas B.
McGee, James Lyon
McGruder, James
McLeod, Harry William
Mendelsohn, Manny Solomon
Merrill, John Benj.
Middleton, Albert Thomits
Miller, Daniel
Miller, Thomas Sylvester
Miller, Ulysses Grant
Mondon, :f]dwai;d Paul
Moore. Fi;ank Grs,ndville
Moore, Grover Cleveland
Moore, Roy Enos
Moses, Thomas William
Munger, Delavell Ar:ii.old
Newell, John Thomas
Newkirk, Morris Irwin

660
Nichols, Bert Bates
Nolan, Arthur William
North, John Edward
Odell, James B.
Orr, Frank Lewis
Owen, John
Page, Eziba Stanford
Pardo, David Jacob
Parsons, Geo. Custer
Penne, Geo. Faustin
Pentland, Richard Conney
Perrins, John Edward, P. M.
Peterson, Arvid Herbert
Philip, William Stewart
Phillips, Hiram Worth
Phillips, Richard
Pickering, James Melvin
Pister, Charles Christian
Powell, Herman H.
Powell, James Rice
Porteous, Robert Herbert
Potter, George D.
Prugh, Julian Jusco
Qnaglino, John
Raftery, Michael Roy, P. M.
Raftery, Thomas Albert
Redmond, Clement James
Reimers, Henry Peter
Richards, William Towner
Richards, William Washington
Richardson, Bertrand K.
Riley, Frank Leslie
Robb, Charles Myron
Roberts, William Nathaniel
Rolfes, William Charles
Rosenmayer, Jacob J.
Roth, Henry
Rothfuss, Christian Frederick
Royer, Benj. Franklin Simeon
Rutter, Amos Henry
Rutter, William Taylor
Sanders, Erastus Neal
Schmidt, Jack William
Schneider, Julius Charles
Schofield, Herbert A.

ROSTER

661

ROSTER

Schwerdtfeger, Julius
Sebastian, Charles Edward, P. M.
Selkirk, Thomas Landalls
Shepherd, Harry Walter
Sherrard, Edward Everett
Sills, Joseph Luther
Skinner, Alfred Eugene
Sleeth, Edgar Langdon
Small, Fred Fulton
Smidt, Julius
Smith, Glenn Harvey
Snyder, Charles Frank
Sorrells, Earl
Stadler, Wm. Joseph
Stern, Harry
Stevens, Carwin Worth
Stitt, Frank Henry
Stone, Will Ernest
Stookey, Byron Polk
Stookey, Lyman B.
Story, Byron Thomas
Stutsman, Carl Allen
Sugarman, Marcus Mothel
Sullivan, Frank Lowell
Sweger, Franklin Dyson
Tallman, Benson Frank
Taylor, Edward Alfred
Taylor, John Roberts
Taylor, Ora
Tenner, Geo.
Thorpe, Joseph Raymond .
Toon, Rufus
Torosian, George Gregory
Tucker, Erving Palmer
Turner, Robert Morton
Tyrrell, Frank Gill
Upham, Arthur Herbert
Utterback, John Louis
Valentine, Albt>rt Randolph
Van Hoose, Clyde
Van Horne, Martin Francis
Vervoort, Caesar
Vidar, John L.
Villalabos, Emil Romo
Virgo, George Edward

White, Oliver Orrin
White, William Ephriam
Wiese, Alva Premo Carlo
Wikholm, Eser
Williams, Alfred Stanley
Williams, Charles Wesley
Williams, J. Frank
Wilson, Irwin Alex.
Winchester, Francis Orion
Wolff, Frederick Augustus
Woolman, James Henry
Yeager, .M atthias S.
Zeigler, Thomas Harry
Zimmer, Nathan Warren

Volk, George Anton
Waddingham, Albert Bascom
Wagner, Will
Wanamaker, Geo. Hiram
Ward, Ben Ridgeway
Ward, Harry Wilfred
Ware, Ralph Franklin
Watkins, William Charles
Webb, Demascus Devorous
Weissert, Leopold Adolph
Welch, Charles Henry
Wells, Harry Herman
Wenham, Thomas
Whisler, Norman Kerry

Eckert, William Thomas

1

-338

WITHDRAWN:
Gibbs, Bryce Pratt
Merrill, Grayson

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hyde, John Church
Ogden, Blanchard
Ross, Jacob
Williams, Roscoe Conklin
Williamson, Frederick B.
Wright, Clifford Andrew

Anderson, .William Wesley
Barnum, Oliver Shepard
Brimer, Charles Arthur
French, Thomas Fox
Golding, Rayniond Edgar
Gregory, Answyl' Owen

Kern, Joseph Edward

DIED:
MeDivitt, Clyde James

FILLMORE LODGE, No. 379.
Fillmore, Ventura. County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full :Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Wileman, Chaplain,
Caswell Carl Elkins, Jr., S. D.,
James Francis Allee, Jun. Deacon,
Henry' B. Kays, Marshal,
Alfred A. Warring, Steward,
Ralph E. Burson, Steward,
Robert F . Sallee, Tyler.

James Harman Walker, Master,
Fillmore, Cal.
Thomas Edgar Robertson, S. W,,.
Thomas Felty Wileman, Jun. W.,
John Boak McNab, Treasurer,
Gilbert Elisha Webb, Secretary,
Fillmore, Cal.

•

062

ROSTER

ROSTER

Allee, ·Jamee Francis
Anderson, William Newton
Atkinson, Thonuu1 Watf!on
Balcom, Henry Peter
Balcom, Miles
Barnes, Louis Lee
'B eller, Charlee Frederick
Bun<lren, Ed.
Burson, Clarence Fowler
Burson, Edward Wright
Burson, George Waehington
Bi.J,rson, Ralph Elliott
Burson, Willis, P. M.
Dorman, Eugene Earl
Elkins, Caswell Carl, Jr.
Fairbanks, Fergus Linn
Fleet, Walter Hugh
Gilchrist, Stephen Beard
Guiberson, Nathaniel Green
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Haine~, Charles Herman
Harthorn, Chae. Whitney
Hastings, Frl!.nk Gardner
Hemmelman, Crise Anton
Hinckley, Ira Loomis, P. M.
Hinckley, John Powell, P. M.
Hulsey, William Roofns
Hurlbutt, Levi Goultl
Kays, Hen.r y B.
Keefe, Geo. Anton

.ME.MEERS:
Blodget, Rush Maxwell
Howard, Charles Henry
Blodget, Spencer Langdon, P. M.
Huber, Orlando Henry, P. M.
Ingersoll, Cyrue Tweedy
Bradbury, Edward Ray
Keseman, William
Chapin, R6y H.
Kutzner, Clarence Edward
Conaway, Oscar Bigelow
Lake, James Arthur
Corbett, George Albert
Laveriug, Cecil Edgar
Darling, Edward Hiram, P. M.
Little, .Henry Boston
Davis, Silas E.
McDonald, John
Fisher, Eugene Irving
Miller, George M.
Flaws, John Andrew
Moore, Andrew Hamilton
Fountain, Jesse Cooley
Fowler, William
Moore, George W.
Fox, Ernest M.
Nutt, Charles Robert
Gerhart, William Edward
Promenchenkel1 Charles
Pyle, Joshua Oscar
Gillespie, Julius Milton
Graves,· Ralph Emery
Shank, George Austin, P. M.
Griffith, Andrew Wylie, P. M.
Sundbye, Halfdan T.
Hare, Euphrates Alden
Thompson, William Smith
Hare, Orel Clyde
Van Orman, Chester D.
Harman, Nathaniel Oscar
Wardwell, George Warren
Harrison, Frederick Earl

MEMBERS:
Kenney, Benjamin Franklin
Lawton, John
Maw, Norman Francis
McNab, John Boak
Merritt, Bowman
Phillips, George
Pyle, Evel'ett Anderson
Resley, George
Robertson, Thomas ·Edgar
Robinson, William Arthur
Sallee, Robert Franklin
Se.hui:nae.her, Harry Benjamin
Shiells, William
isiephens, Richard, P. M.
Sutton, Edw&.rd Essington
Stoll, Adolf \
Stowe, Osmer Ja~es
Tl'otter, John P.
Udall, Henry Douglass
Vogel, Hermlrn Gottlieb
Walker, James, P. M.
Walker, James Harmon
Walker, J onathlln Herbert
Warring, ;\ lfred Ad!ley
Webb, Gilbert Elisha, P. M.
Weich, Oscar Henry
Whaites, Joseph Lee
Wileman, Thomas
Wileman, Thomas Felty

Clough, Edgar E.

-41

WITHDRAWN:
Jolly, James Richardson

OCEANSIDE LODGE, No. 381.

-59

Oceanside, San Diego County.

HUNTINGTON BEACH LODGE,

No. 380.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or ne:a:t preceding Full Moon.

Huntington Beach, Orange Oouncy.
Stated Meetings :first Wednesday in each month.

OFFICERS:

John Thompson M"Orrison, Master, Wm. V. D. Nichols, Chaplain,
Park Bolman Jolly, Sen. Deacon,
Oceanside, Cal.
Edwin Bruce Johansen, Sen. Ward., Theodore G. Schultze, Jun. Deacon,
Eugene Viele Griffes, Marshal,
Charles Lee Berry, Jun. Ward.,
Frederick William Rieke, Treasurer, Thomas Henry Draper, Steward,
Eugene Chaureaux, Steward,
George Addison Lane, Secretary,
Herbert L. Newman, Tyler.
Oceanside, Cal.

OFFICERS:
Ralph Emery Graves, Master,
Joshua Oscar Pyle, Senior Deacon,
Huntington Beach, Cal.
Halfden T. Sundbye, Jun. Deacon,
James Arthur lake, Sen. Warden, George Arthur Corbett, Steward,
Charles Robert Nutt, Jun. Warden, Andrew Hamilton Moore, Steward,
Henry Boston Little, Treasurer,
Roy Huntley Chapin, Tyler.
Cecil Edgar Laverifig, Secretary,
Huntington Beach, Cal.

,

ROSTER

ROSTER

6&1

MEMBERS:
Belt, Arthur Hugh
Berry, Charles Lee
Byron, George Alexander
Casterline, Myron Nelson
Crouch. Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Ira Woodard
Draper, Thomas
Griffes, Eugene Viele
Hansen, Niels Frederick
Harrington, Herbert E.
Hindle, Norman William
Johansen, Edwin Bruce
Johnston, John
Lane, George Addison
Manning, John, P. M.

Martin, Isaac
Martin, John Franklin, P. M.
Matthews, Augustus Marion
Morrison, James Thompson
Newham, Herbert L. ·
Nichols, Wm. Van Derveer, P. M •.
Rieke, Frederick Willinm
Rorick, David
Schultz, Theodore Gustave
Sharp, Joseph Loyd
Sloan, Ernest A.
Smith, George Grover
Spencer, Matthew W.
Tulip, John Albert, P. M.

-29

HIGHLAND PARK LODGE, No. 382.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meeting, secondMonday in each month.
Pasadena A venue and A venue Fifty-seven.
OFFICERS:

George Marshall Duntley, Master,
Wm. Russell M orehouse, Chaplain,
707 N o. Mariposa Ave.
H erbert Denis Alfonso, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur Dalton Bond, Sen. Warden, Ernest Edwa rd Pierce, Jun. Deacon,
Rollin Henry Morse, Jun. Warden, Lyndon Stuart Benson, Marshal,
Andrew Jackson Renner, Treasurer, Gavin Witherspoon, Steward,
Edward Difani, S ecretary,
Alexander Nicolson, Steward,
311 West Ave. 50.
Robert Stewa rt, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aclams, Frank S.
Alfonso, Herbert Denis
Allyne, Ernest Osborn
Anderson, Arthur Torrence
Anderson, James Law
Archibald, Richard Christie
Armstrong, John Z.
Atkinson, John Brown
A very, Charles Daniel
Axelson, Gustavus Adolphus

Backus, John James
Bailey, Arthur Henry
Baker, Clyde Norris
Basse, Fred Douglas
Batty, Geo. Leonard
Beadle, Walter Edward
Beatty, James David
Benson, Lyndon Stuart
Bernard, Samuel
Blackstock, Nehemiah

Blair, Paul Loughridge
Blood, Willis Norton
Bodinus, Adolphus Newton
Bond, Arthur Dalton
Bowles, Arthur Cleveland
Bradford, Charles Raymond
Breese, Charles Frederick
Bricker, Clarence Douglas
Brier, William Wallace
Brock, Leo
Bronson, Edmond Butler
Brown, Charles Samuel
Brown, George Henderson
Brown, William Augustus
Burns, Robert
Carter, Daniel Fouche
Carlson, Karl David
Carver, Charles Elliott, P. M.
Cates, Charles Barker
Chambers, Charles John
Chambers, William Kirtley
Church, Clyde Melville
Clapp, Warren Lockwood
Clark, George
Clark, William Alton
Clarke, Norman Selby
Cliff, Charles Lee
Cline, George Thomas
Coffman, Burdett Nelson
Colby, Philip Dearbon
Coles, Thomas Richard
Condron, Griffith
Corbin, Walter Augustus
• Cresse, Arthur
Crisler, Lewis Allen, Sr.
Cushman, Herbert Wright
De Masters, Andrew T.
Detwiler, Oscor Edward
De Yenney, Harry Rollin
Dietcher, Henry Louis
Difani, Edward
Dillman, 1Ira Frank
Dixon, Archibald John
Donnell, John Alexander, P. M.
Donnell, William Wendell

Douthit, John William
Duduit, James Edward
Dudley, Thaddeus L.
Dunlap, Frank Everett
Dunscomb, Guy Sheldon
Duntley, George Marshall
Eaton, Frederick Mason
Eccleston, Howard, P . M.
Eddie, Guy Walton
Edwards, William Arthur
Ehlers, Otto John Gustav
Elwell, James Frank
Fellows, Thomas
Ferguson, George, P. M.
FerguRou, William
Fink, Hydalias Cyprian
Foster, Seth
Frederick, James Shaw
Gaud, Richard Hamilton
Gettins, Ed, Hillery
Glahn, Robert Rodney C.
Good, Sidney Vincent
Good, Wilfrid Bernard
Graf, Albert Frederick
Grant, John McPherson
Graves, John Colburn
Gray, Robert Henry, P . M.
Haas, Harry Homer
Hamilton, Thomas Bruce
Handcock, Phillip
Harrison, Donn Piatt
Hawley, J'llmes Overton
Hayden, Bert Leroy
Hays, Robert Richard
Heath, Charles Rhodes
Henderson, John Willis
Herendeen, Wesley Eugene
Hight, George Harry
Hill, Benjamin Franklin
Hill, Nathaniel Mill
Hilleary, Orville
Holt, Shirley Luther
Hopkins, Ed. W C\lls
Hopkins, Marion David
Horwitz, Abraham Henry

('>(;6

ROSTER

ROSTER

Howard, Thomas Duncan
Morrison, Andrew Jackso!:
Howell, Ernest Fniderick
Morse, Rollin Henry
Howell, Walter Henry George
Murphy, Dennis
Hubbard, Hubert Sylve11ter
Murphy, Dennis Frank
Hubbard, John Frost
Musg!ove, John Joeeph
Isbell, Elton Spencer
Myers, William Park
Jeffery, Elmore Robinson
Myers, William Raymond, P. M.
Jenks, Edward Dyer
Neely, Wm. Winsett
Newton, Ellsworth G.
Jones,_ Herbert Clinton
Nickell, Harry Bruce
Judson, Williatn Lees
Nicolso.n, Alexander
Kennedy, William Homer
Norton, John
Ketchum, Marshall Bidwell
Owen, Elmo Nelson
Kirby, Benj.
Kissinger, Chae. Vernon
Parker, Stanford Devenport
Kissinger, Jacob Byron
Partridge, Wm. Edward Bridge
Perry, Wightman Chappell
Knapp, Joseph Roscoe
Phillips, Edwin Roscoe
Knox, Harry Clifton, P. M.
Phipps, Edward
Koerner, Paul Albert
Pierce, Ernest Edward
Koster, Edward Loui8
Pierce, Rees Carr
Lasher, Henry
Ledya rd, Francis King
Piper, Noah Twldney
Leffler, Charles Blackburn
Porter, Robert Edson
Lewis, Charles Douglae
· Powell, John We11ley
Lock, George Ernest
Prettyman, Raymond Thoma's
Lovejoy, George Hazelton
Prettyman, William S.
Price, William
MacKenzie, Jamee Kenneth
Massie, Edward D1mumy
Prichard, Geo. Asbury
Merkley, Harry Samuel
Remington, Geo. Byron
McCabe, J ames William
Renfrew, Ontario John
McCall, Chas. Edward
Renner, Andrew Je.ekt!Un, P. M.
McCallister, Albert Bruce
Richards, Royal FrahCi1
McCrea, Thomfls Pleasants
Riordan, Daniel
McDonald, James
Rivers, Arthur Joseph
McEwen, Jamee Gilford
Robinson, Chas. Everett
McFee, William Hamilton.
Roby, Edwin E'l'erett
McKenzie, Charlel!I
Root, Frank An-drew
McKinnis!l1 Allen Dennis
Roseberg, Samuel Robert
Mentel, Edward Herman
Rule, Orville Rey
Meyers, Edward Frederick
Saakes, Otto Charles
Miles, Robert William
Schaefer, Frank Robert
Mitchill, Franklin Rising
Scherer, Otto Max
Montgomery, Charlee William.
Schulze, George Williatli.
Morehouse, William BttsS'ell, P. M. Shane, Max R.
Moore, Alton Howa.rd
Shea, Richard Peter
Moore, William Henry, Jr.
Shepard, James Milton

Shoaff, Walter Randall
Simmonds, Frank
Smith, Charles H. D.
Smith, George Montgomery
Smith, Josiah Lathrop
Speake, Harold Edward
Spc·ncer1 Roy Lucius
Spring, Arthur Logan
Stanley Byron De R()y
Stagg, Edward Houts
Steinberg, Harry
Stewart, Robert
Stowe, Claude William
Sullivan, Frank La Zelle
Teter, Francis Max
Thorne, Henry .J'Ohn, P. M.
Thornton, James Edwin
Titus, Benjamin Greene
Trask, Frank Ellsworth
Train, John Henry
Trew, Niel Charle11
Truesdel, Ira
Trunick, John .Stanford
Van Buskirk, M'Ottis Henry
Van Cleave, Ralph Tr'Uman
Van Ornull\, Aile'!!. :F'i.sh
Van Trees, Paul Jones

Vernon, Ellery Peace
Vincent, Fred Ezekiel, P. M.
Waddell, George Moore
Waddington, Will Heigh
Wall, Arthur Augustus
Wallace, Hugh Sinclair
Walker, Frederick Ernest
Walter, Fred, Jr.
Walteri Henry Turnest
Walt'On, John Frederick
Webster, Charles Adelbert
Weller, Harold Fraser, P. M.
West, Leslie Melvin
Westbrook, Leon Curry
V\l"~st!lrgard, Peter
White, Charle~ Edward
White, Hiram James
Whitmore, Walter Emery
Wigdal, Ole Johneon
'Villiams, James Perry
Willis, William
Willson, Leon
Witherspoon, Gavi'n
Wood, John Charles
. Woolard, John William Lee
Yates, Sherman
-254
Young," John Arthur

WITHDRAWN:
Hatch, Leander 0.
Leathers, Har\rey Lewis
Noyes, Joseph Sibley

Ric.e, George
Ritchey, Cyrus l!!aac
Sherwin, Billy Ebin
Wayne, Ormal Franklyn

SUSP);:NDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
We5tbrook, Richard

Paterson, Arthur Herman

Boyd, Herbert Wales

DIED:
Foote, Claire Ivan

------

ROSTER

ROSTER

OROS! LODGE, No. 383.

EL CENTRO LODGE, No. 384.

668

Orosi, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

El Centro, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

OFFICERS:

William M. Beinhorn, Master,
Orosi, Cal.
Walter Oxford, Senior Warden,
Charles Campbell, Junior Warden,
Herman Beinhorn, Treasurer,
Fred Wright Conhey, Secretary,
Orosi, Cal.

Angel, Linzey Coleman
Beinhorn, Herman
Beinhorn, William M.
Bingham, Charles Erastus
Blackledge, Lude Brennan
Blair, Franklin L.
Blair, William Moffett
Bump, Addison Joaeph
Bump, Charles Addison
Bump, Frank Norvell, P. M.
Biswell, George Washington
Blackledge, Lindley Ninde
Cahn, Gustave
Campbell, (1harles, P. M.
Conkey, Eugene Albert
Conkey, Fred Wright
Cowan, Harrison
Flack, James Henry
Garcia, Miguel Viera
Goodin, Oroville Caughey
Brooks, Edgar Rye

John Rayson Reed, Chaplain,
Frank Norvell Bump, Sen. Deacon,
James Henry Flack, Jun. Deacon,
Orville Coy Goodin, Marshal,
Frank Davis, Steward,
Charles S. Beinhorn, Steward,
Major Brown, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Hamilton, James Starr
Kiggens, Elmer E.
Knott, Bruce Forrest
Knox, George Whitfield, P. M.
Ledbetter, Addison Goulder ·
Ledbetter, James Roy
Lowrey, Lee
Martin, Raymond Daniel
McPherson, Jerome V..'., Jr.
Oxford, Walter
Phillipps, Edward Strachey
Pigg, William Renald
Praudy, Chas. Herbert
Price, 'l'homas G.
Pugh, .John James
Reed, John Rayson, P. M.
Rutherford, James Madison
Schulp, Peter
·rrammel, George Foster
Wheeler; Austin Ellis
--40

WITHDRAWN:
Farris, Fred Perry
Johnson, Daniel Francis

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Black, John Douglas
Bacon, James Allen

DIED:
Morgan, Nelson Wesley

669

OFFICERS:

Ora Rufus Miller, Chaplain,
John Stewart Ross, Master,
Nont
J. Reid, Senior Deacon,
El Centro, Cal.
Major Samuel Cook, Sen. Ward., Daniel A. Leonard, Jun. Deacon,
Leonard Rose Wachtel, Marshal,
Phil D. Swing, Jun. Warden,
John Valentine. Wachtel, Jr., Treas., Victor E. Cram, Steward,
Harry L. Barker, Steward,
Parker Earl Baird, Secretary,
William Kelly, Tyler.
El Centro, Cal.

Baird, Parker Earl, P . M.
Baker, John Billingsley
Baker, Leonard Fairfield
Baker, William Vinton
Beach, Thomas
Bliss, Anson L.
Buckle, Charles William
Buttram, John F.
Carl, Wm. Hewitt
Chaplin, David Hogue, P. M.
Carter, Geo. A.
Cole, Franklin J.
Collins, Chas. W.
Cook, Major S.
Cooley, Lewis Edward
Cram, Victor E.
Delozier, James Garland
Dunaway, Samuel William
Elliott, George Wesley
Eshelman, John M., P. M.
Ferguson, Allan R.
Fisher, Charles Edward
Force, Thomas Franklin
Forrester, Edward E.
Fromme, Ernest A. William
Gage, Clarence Eddy
Griswold, Herbert C.
Hamilton, James .Gray

MEMBERS:
Hamilton, Walter Owen, P. M.
Hamilton, William Pitt
Hedrick, Perry Lee
Hersee, Charles Harry
Holt, William Frankli"
Johnson, M. Durward
.Tones, Guy
Jones, James Sylvester
Jones, Wil~m Clinton
Julian, John Montgomery
Kennedy, Geo. Ernest
Larew, John Snidow, P. M.
Leonard, Dan A.
MacCormac, Glee Emile
MacBratney, Kyle
Martin, Harry Garrett
McCombs, Virgil
McCoy, Wallace Isaac
McGuire, Jesse Lee
Miller, Ora Rufus, P. M.
Moore, :Raymond Bayard
Ml'rehouse, Howard W.
Noland, Daniel Vorhees
Nort'on, John
Paine, Frederick William
Pearson, Harry Browney, Jr.
Peterson, Frederick William
Peterson, Herman Holger, P. M.

ROST EH

UOSTEJ:

670

Sparks, Ira C.
Spraiue, Walter H.
Stone, Walter Isbel
Swing, Phil D.
Tichenor, Paul Baker
Timmons, Duane Harry
Vencill, Truman A.
Wachtel, John V-'lentine, Jr.
Waggoner, Walter A. ,
Waite, Fred W a.rren
Witt, Simon Nicholas
Zimmer, Samuel Blair

Phillips, Peter Charles
Pier, Winthrop
Putnam, Fred Barnes
Reading, Franklin
Reed, George H.
Reid, Nont J.
Rogers, Francis Augustus
Ross, John Stewart
Salomon, Benjamin
Satterwhite, Raymcmd H.
Scott, Jo11iah Garfield
Seibert, Lee Charles

WITHDRAWN:
Ingram, Alexander Galt

Elder, Daniel S.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Harding, Thomas
Morgan, Isaac A.
Holman, Milton P.
Morton, William E.
Johnson, Walter M.
Stover, Murray A.
Worley, Lester J.

DINUBA LODGE, No. 385.
Dinuba, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings second Tue~. day in each month.
OFFICERS:

Abner Fraser, Master,
· Dinuba, Cal.
Harry H . Moore, S enior Warden,
Amb ro se N. Shar.er, Jun. Wqrden,
Clarence C. Threlkeld, Tre(Jsurer,
Henry W . Ensign, Secretary,
Dinuba, Cal.

Joseph F. Cauby, Chapla,in,
Samuel E. Bur1.1m, Sen. Deacon,
John C. Hicks, Junior Deacon,
John S. Ste.ton, Marshal,
Irwin Vose, Stcwqrd,
Roy T. Demaree, Steward,
Henry H. Burutn, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Akers, Walter Byron
Arthur, Tom
Ayer, Isaac Vanmetel'
Barr, William Nelson
Barris, EmeJ,"y
Bennett, Horace H.
Botts, Tilden Hendricks

Burum, Henry Horley
Burum, Samuel Ernest
Burum, William Malcolm
Callison, Robert He~iry
Cash, John Simpson ·
l au by, Joseph Fountain
Cairns, William Joseph

-80

Clotfelter, .T. Rene, P. M.
Conratl, Eli Perkiu
Creas, Jacob Daniel
Day, William Fredrick
Demaree, Roy Tilford
Dechman, William James
Dewhirst, Roy Daniel
Dopkins, George Madison, P. M.
Dunn, George Ambrose, P. M.
Ensign, Henry Wilson, P. M.
Flournoy, William Venable
Fraser, Abner
Fuller, Erwin F.
Fullard, James Stanley
Giffen, Gordon Culbertson
Grimsley, Virgil H.
Hauser, Walter Cisero
Hedgpeth, George Foster P., P. M.
Johnson, Daniel Francis
Kash, David Harrison
Kirk, Robert Johnstone
Lushbaugh, James J.
Lynch, William Albert
McCracken, James Henry

671

Mccorkle, Eugene Henry
Moore, Earl Morton
Moore, Fred Wilford
Moore, Harry H.
Morton, Richard Ephraim
Nichols, William Bates
Osterhout, George William
Page, Edward Joseph
Prestidge, George Roy
Reynolds, Junius Adrian
Rhodes, John Livingst<ln, P. M.
Scrivner, Chester
Scruggs, Eldridge Cade W.
Sibley, Elmer
Scoggins, Andrew Jackson
Sharer, Ambrose N.
Snyder, Charles G.
Staton, John Sylveater
Threlkeld, Clarence Clifford
Wasgatt, Archie Barton
White, Frank Low
Whittington, William
Woods, William
Wyman, William Christie, P. M.-62

CORREGIDOR LODGE, No. 386.
Manila, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetinga second Thursday in each month.
Withdrew from this Jurisdiction December 19, 1912, to aid in the
formation of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Bush, Arthur Walton H.
Aicklen, Henry
Caton, John Hirst
Aitken, Thomas Dickey
Chandler, Myron Hall
Arnold, George Clyde
Clancey, George Eugene Ed.
Ayres, John Henry
Clauson, Robert
Badger, Jesse Adin
Clifford, Carl Gains
Barton, Eugene Martin
Cohn, Charles Centenial, P. M.
Bromfield, Joseph Frederick

672

Coleman, William W.
Colvin, Joshua Taggart
Comfort, Newton C., P. M.
Cook, Edward
Crawford, John Gaylord
Crossland, William Alex.
Davis, William Alex.
De Selms, Chas. Chase
Dowling, Paul James
Edward, Samuel Hamilton
Elser, Edwin Emil
Enright, John Euwin
Eppstein, Tobias
Farris, Benjamin Seymoure
Figart, David Milton
Gale, Herbert Daniel, P. M.
Greenland, Wilber C.
Guggenhiem, Siegfried
Hall, George William
Hall; John De Camp
Harvey, George Rogers, P. M.
Hoggsette, James Archibald
Hulse, Seward William
Johnston, Carter Dupuy
Kelly, Reginald Heber
Kerr, Earle Harrold
Klinefelter, Daniel Herbert
Kneedler, Harry Dohme
Lampman, Howard A.
Lear, Benjamin Edgar
Lewy, Alfred Max
McCall, Louis
Mcconaughy, David Charles
McCrory, Robert Morton
McLaughlin, Wendell
Merchant, Thomas Payne
Moe, Kilmer Oscar
Mortenson, Gunnar John
Mosley, Robert Louis
Musgrave, Wm. Everett
Nash, Frank Dana
Neal, William Thomas Gibson

ROSTER

ROSTER
Newman, Homer Worthington, P. M.
Noble, Robert Houston
0 'Donnell, Louis Cornelius, P. M.
Olds, Robert Franklin
Olson, Charles Gusst
Pahnke, Richard John
Pastor, Andres
Pleger, John .Posner, Abra''
Rader, William
Redford, Arthur Frederick D.
Rosenstock, Christian William
Ross, James
Roth, Emil
Rounds, Robert Clement
Rowley, Randall Adams
Saleeby, Ameen Mitry
Saleeby, Murad M.
Schleipen, Frank L.
Scott, Richard McClain
Shand, James Reid
Shaw, Richard Edson
Smith, Earl Hamilton
Soekland, William Godfrey
Stout, William
Sullivan, Orlie Slocum
Taylor, Carson
Taylor, Ralph Wendell
Taylor, William Henderson
Terry, Ernest Marvin
Thompson, Cornelius John
Toney, John Morgan G.
Tyre, Alex. Bain
Vickers, John Wm.
Webber, Ralph Grant
West, Wade Clarence
Westerhouse, Ernest Jackson
White, Frank Russell
Wilbur, Elisha Ward
Wolf, Abram W.
Wood, Orville Vincent
Zard, Frank Cecil
-98

WITHDRAWN:
Goldsmith, Willinm

Jennings, Robert
Wright, Francis Albert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Frazier, Walter l<'arics
Phalen, Jack

COALINGA LODGE, No. 387.
Coalinga, Fresno County.
Stated Meeting11, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moou.
OFFICERS:

Harding Ellison Robinson, Master, William Kern Peters, Sen. Deacon,
Coalinga, Cal.
Joseph Bertrim Wright, Jun. Deac.,
Harry Merl Miller, Sen. Warden, Thomas Pomroy Smith Marshal
, Charles Albert Brown, lu.n. Warden, Charles Jenkins Parson~, Steward,
Henry Clinton Kerr, rreasurer,
Felix Albin Thore Steward
Henry L. s,avers, Ser;retary,
s'amuel Augustus Davis, Tyler.
Coalinga, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Andre, Robert Clement
Daniel, Lester Aaron
Anthony, Herbert William
Davis, Charles Ernest
Barber, George Wilson
Davis, Harry Sprague
Barnett, James
Dobson, Howard Richard
Bair, Winfield Scott, Jr.
Duncan, Lee Allen
Byles, James Henry
DeLoug, Davirl Magee
Boles, Merle Lee
Echols, Albmous Ben
Boyce, Wilfred Harry, P. M.
Eshenbaugh, Wm. Dexon
Brown, Charle11 Albert
Everitt, Herbert John
Brown, Geotge Elmer
Eversmeyer, Loni! Edward
Buchanan, Lewis Rogers
Erlland, Charles Frederick
Berney, Edward Plummer
Eibe, Harry Leslie
Campbell, Richard
Fitzgerald, Charles William
Charlesworth, Benjamin William
Fearon, William Edward
Christie, Frederick Jame~
Finch, James McGronther
Clinton, Harry Bailey
Fuqua, Isham W.
Colldeweih, Deedrick Fi-ederick
Garretson, Ralph Gardiner
Collins, Willi11m Nelson
Garrigan, William Henry
Colon, Walter Elnor
Geddes, Byron Levern
Creagor, William DouglaH
Gormley, Ulysses Sheridan
Crozier, Hubert R.
Gormley, Curtis Vaneman
43

674

ROSTER

Greer, William Allison
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Guiberson, William Richard
Hager, Dorsey
Hamilton, Frank Dana
Heinzen, Frank Xavier
Hendrickson, John McElhaney
Hinkle, George Washington, P. M.
Holser, Ray F.
Houghton, Fred Clayton
Howell, Watson Isaac
Hughes, George Mark
Hummel, James Clarence
Hirshfeld, Monroe Louis
Hutchinson, Charles Wesley
Hutchinson, L . M.
Johnson, Albert Garrard
Johnstone, John Irving
Jordan, Elmer Crawford
Keeler, Ernest Clifton
Kerr, Henry Clinton
Kidd, Archie M.
King, Roberson Jefferson
Kinney, Charles Lewis, P. M.
Kitely, Robert James
Knight, Eldred Vischer
Knowles, George
Ko cher, Paul
Kyle, Walter Scott
Lackey, John Harvey
. Lawson, Orris Glory
Livermore, John W.
Marten, James Harvey
Mccutcheon, William Grant
McKnight, Wm. Copeland
McLemore, Calvin Arthur
McPhearson, Edward Evert
Mead, Joseph Benjamin
Miller, Harry Merle
Miller, Luther Herbert
Mills, Samuel Ernest
Mitchell, Arthur Prentiss
Mulholland, Eugene
Murray, Hawley Scott

ROSTER

Murphy, Charles Ashley
Mong, Elmer Willis
Montgomery, Bartlett Edward
Morris, Harry Nelson
Nay, Orvis Winfred
Parsons, Charles Jenkins
Pauson, Edward Hyam
Peck, Frank Elroy
Peters, William Kern
Phillips, William Franklin
Pierce, J. Harry
Pierce, James Henry
Pirie, Robert Edward
Porter, Sylvester Douglas
Richmond, Henry Stuart
Robinson, Harding Ellison
Rogers, David Thompson
Rosette, Eugene Joseph
Sanderson, Charles Nelson
Schattenberg, Theo. Andrew
Seavers, Henry L., P. M.
Shaffer, Howard McKinley
Shafmth, Max
Sloan, Don Carlos
Smith, Alford Washington
Smith, James Herbert
Smith, Thomas Pomroy
Stranahan, William
Thore, Felix Albin
Trumbull, Louis Thomas
Vernard, William Freeman
Waite, Arthur Thomas
Walthall, Octavius Alex.
Ward, Jesse Edmond
Webb, Arthur Ernest
Webb, .Tohn Hickley
Welden, William Percy
Wells, Jack Eugene
White, Samuel Addison
Whitsell, John Jackson
Woodrufl', Isaac Ogden
Woodburn, William A.
Wright, Joseph B.

Blakely, Fred Burnell

675

WITHDRAWN:
Black, Harry L.
Page, Fredetie.k Barryman

DIED:
Robertson, James McGregor

PARNASSUS LODGE, No. 388.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
Twelfth A venue and Irving Street, Sunset.
OFFICERS:
Andrew Lewis J ohnston, Master,
John Samuel Gray, Chap-lain,
1387 Sixth Avenu·e.
Henry Lewisl Tod'd, .Sen. Deacon
Edward Frank Louideck, Sen. W., Thomas Allen Cavanagh, Jim. n:ac.,
Thomas Jackson Green, Jun. Ward., Clifford Thomas Dorman Marshal ·
Fr:d.erick Heinrich W . Koenig, Trs., Horace Reuben Spauldin~, Steward,
Wilham Albert Hoyt, Secretary,
Charles Mortimer Kellogg Steward
1526 Tenth Avenue,
Edward Barnes, Tyler.
'
'

-129

MEMBERS: .
Adams, Frank Bertram
Cavanagh, Thomas Allen
Allen, William Wallace Jr., P, M. Chaquette, Albert Bernard
Anderson, Karl Gustav
Christiansen, Jens Peter
Barlow, William
Collister, Matthew Fearn
Barnes, Edward
Conner, Samuel Amanual
Beha, Charles Frederick
Cox, Edward
Be~nett, Wm. Forest
Cox, Levitt Howard
Bensen, Harry Jeffs
Crabtree, George Leland
Bohannan, Willis George
Cree, William Arthur, P. M.
Brekke, Lawrence
Doest, John Cornelius
Broaddus, Oscar James
Dolter, Albert Louis
Brown, George Abram
Dorman, Clifford Thomas
Brundage, Charles Edward
Draeger, George Victor
Brundage, Charles Stratton
Drake, Harry ·Ellsworth
Bryon, Benjamin
Dresser, Frank Benjamin
Butt, Peter Deidrich
Dykeman, John Joseph
Button, Earl William
Edinger, Ignatius
Callendei;, Monroe Nathan
Ennor, Pellew Langford
Carleton, Edwin Herbert
Farrow, Chas. Wm.
Cavanagh, Leslie Alonzo
Feasey, Alfred Henry

676

ROSTER
ROSTER

Ferguson, Daniel B.
Fisk, George Marshal
Fletcher, Edgar Roy
Flynn, James Latham
Force, Harold Wade
Fox, August William
.Furness, Edgar Larue
Getz, T~eodore
Goicovich, John George
Goff, Charles
Gray, John Samuel
Gray, Ralph Wendell
Green, Joseph
Green, Sinon
Green, Thomas Jackson
Gregory, John Meredith
Griebnow, Frederick Guillermo
Haste, Lawrence Bever17
Heilmann, Ludwig
Hendricks, William Henry
Hoffman, Albert Frederick
Hopkins, Louis
Howland, George Henry
Hoyt, James Merton, P. M.
Hoyt, William Albert
Hughes, William Charles
Hunn, Percival Sidney
Hunt, Reuben Heywood
Irvine, Richard ·
Irvine, Thomas
Irwin, Thomas
Iverson, Gerhard Warner
James, John Clarence
Jessen, Walter Henry
Job, M. Harry
Johansen, Soren Frederick
Johnson, Henry Charles
Johnston, Andrew Lewis
Johnston, Archibald Hope
Johnstone, Maurice
Jones, Robert William
Jordan, Frederick William
.Tordan, Lewis Sidney
Kaighin, John Ceasar
Kaufner, Bruno

Kellogg, Chas. Mortimer
Kenney, William
Kerr, George Pringle
Kingsland, Geor~e Raymond
Kleespies, Louis George
Koenig, Wm. Diedrick
Lee, Bunyan Wright
Lewis, Martin John
Little, John
Little, William
Limbaugh, William Albert
Logie, Thomas
Long, Jamtis Francies
Longworth, Thomas
Louideck, Edward Frank
Loveland, Harvey Arthur
Macdonald, James Stuart A.
MacKay, Ralph Stuart
Makinson, John William
Marsh, George Warren
Mathieson, Chester Smith
Martin, John Henry
Maxson, Wesley Searles
Mcl!'arlane, Arthur Henry
McKay, Richard Samuel
McKee, Wilbur John
MeLennan, James Alexander
McWhirter, Willis J. B.
Mengel, John, Jr.
Miller, William Rob
Millner, William Prosper
Mitchell, William Henry
Mitchell, William Wilson
Moehrle, Chas. Edward
Morris, David Reese
Myers, Henry William
Nash, Bert
Nelson, Norman
Parker, Albert William
Parker, William Chesley
Paterson, Nelson James
Pederson, Peder
Peery, Chester Smith
Pitcher, Elmer Cyrus
Quinby, Manfred De Hart

Quirey, Chas. Thomas
Ragland, Jay Gould
Randall, Eal'! Cree
Redpath, James William
Reese, Clement Tyree
Reimer, Otto
Remmel. Alva Jacob
Rickon, Harold John
Ri:ftee, Clarence Walter
Rock, Peter
Rodin, John
Rutherford, James Andrew
Saville, Harry Dariue, P. M.
Schirmer, Otto Henry
Schoonmaker, Marius
Scott, Harvey Roy
Segelken, Harry Herman
Shannon, Robert Veazey
Shaw, Charlie
Sherwood, Stanley Edward
Smith, Byrd Oli ver
Snibley, Harvey Blanchard
So:r:ners, Harry Haydeu.
Spaulding, Horace Reuben
Sperry, Jared Boardman

Clar e, George Clifton

677

Stannard, Albert Clinton
Stille, Otto Ferdinand
8tolz, Henry Fred
Sunder, Frank Christel, P. M.
Theriot, Joseph Edward
'l'hornpson, Walter Alexander
Thumler, Henry William
Tobin, Austin Weston
Todd, Henry Lewis
Tuoker, Simeon Edmund
Totten, Clair Harry
Trezise, Albert George
Turnbull, William Harvey
Valentine, Daniel Fred
Walker, Fred 'k Clinton
Ward, Ivan Lewis
Waterhouse, Lincoln Orin
Wessling, Wm. Henry
Wiley, Ralph Wilson
Williams, John Butler
Williams, Oscar Floyd
Wishard, Gt>orge Litel
Yates, Walter He11ry
Youman, :Burt Cain

WITHDRAWN:
Kelly, Elmer Ellsworth

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMEN"r OF DUES:
Doherty, William Francis
DIED:
Varney, George Henry

-17ll

;ROSTER

ROSTER

6i8

PALOS VERDES LODGE, No. 389.
Long Bea.ch, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each mpnth..

Vance, Alpheus J.
Wallace, William Haveloch
Windham, Charles Henderson
Yoder, George Newton
Young, William Howard

Stevens, William F., P. M.
Thorndike, Geo. Edward
Towne, Amos ~quiller
Trussell, Joseph Daniel
Tucker, Benj. F.

-68

OFFICERS:

Amos Agillar Towne, Master,
Henry Fitzgerald Parkinson,~hap.,
122 East First Street.
Arthur John Miller, Sen. Deacon,
Frank C. Blair, Sen. Warden,
Thomas James Calloway, Jun. D.,
Fred W. McCullah, Junior Warden, Frank L. Varney, Marshal,
John Hewitt, Treasurer,
Lewis Ruffner Smith, Jr., Steward,
Edward Stephen Acres, Secretary, Ernest Andrew Stevens, Steward,
607 East Fourth Street.
Rufus Merrill Davis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Green, Andrew Jackson
Hoartwell, Charles Leonard
Hewitt, John, P. M.
Hoodenpyle, George L.
:i:!untington, Charles Elmer
Jenkins, Herbert A.
Malcom, Charles
Malone, Augustine Charles,· P. :M.
Mccullah, Fred W.
Middough, William
Miller, Arthur John
Morgan, Jesse Josiah, P. M.
Morris, Harry Howell
Mosher, Evan
Motten, Joseph Jasson
Parker, John Robert
Parkinson, Henry Fitzgerald
Parmley, Arthur Lynn
Pillsbury, Henry L.
Porterfield, Austin Roy
Shaul, Marion J.
Simmons, Charles Leonard
Smith, Courtney N.
Smith, Lewis R., Jr.
Spar.ks, John W .
Sparks, Joseph Cameron
Speer, Albert Howard
Starmont, Carl C.
Starr, Edward J.

Acres, Edward Stephen
Archer, Ernest Everard, P. M.
Babb, Wm. Edgar
Baker, Frederick
Blair, Frank C.
Bond, Benjamin Franklin
Brakeman, James Henry
Buffum, Charles Abel
Cadwallader, Jacob Edward
Calloway, Thomas James
Carroll, John
Cate, Dallas Mason
Chittenden, Horace W.
Cleveland, Charles Herbert
Cook, William David
Crowe, Frank Austin
Crutts, D. Karr
Davis, Harvey R.
Denio, Elan Carlton
Detwiler, Wm. Howard
Dixon, Abraham
Dodge, Howard Lewis
Dotson, Edward Franklin
Dunbar, James Ebert, P. M.
Dunn, John S.
Dunn, Orton Carrie
Forsyth, John Middleton
Galer, William Howard
Gaskill, Denton L.

IMPERIAL LODGE, No. 390.
Imperial, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, 2nd Monday in ea ch month.
OFFICERS:

Ralph Lane Oak, Master,
Imperial, Cal.
George Ernest Heber, Sen. Warden,
Charles W . Waite, Jun. Warden,
Eugene Kellogg Carrier, Tr~asurer,
William Henry Hartshorn, Sec.,
Imperial, Cal.

Wm. Rankin Stevenson, Chaplain,
Erwin Drayton Stuart, S en. Deacon,
Arleigh Pierce Shibley, Jun. Deacon,
J ohn Turner Rice, Marshal,
Olaf William Larson, Steward,
John Howard Morgan, Steward,
John H. Beck, Tyler.

:MEMBERS:
Allen, William Henry
Grossi Warren Frank
Hartshorn, William Henry
Bear, Guy Clinton
Beck, John H.
Hazzard, Earl Chester'
Bixby, Samuel Munson
Heber, Geo. Ernest
Hickok, Harry
Bonter, John Sylvanus
Holland, Joseph Henry
Breedlove, Roy Elmer
Holt, Leroy
Brewer, Herbert William
Huston, James Drummond
Bumgarner, George Marion, P. M.
Jackson, Arthur Gilman
Carrier, Eugene Kellogg
Kelly, William
Conser, William Daniel
Knupp, Chas. Aaron
Cook; Byron H., P . .M.
Larson, Olaf William
Copenhaver, Davis Denton, P. M.
Lawrence, George Cecil
Deaville, George William
McBride, James Arthur
Dutcher, Gordon Leroy
McPherrin, Roy Davidson, P. M.
Dutcher, Merton Victor
Edgar; Arthur
Mmer, Henry A. F.
Morgan, John Howard
Edgar, John Herbert
Morgan, Thomas Edward
Edgar, -William Archibald .
Oak, Ralph Lane
Farnsworth, Louis Frederick
Patten, Eugene Elmer
Farr, Finis Calvert
Reid, George Hunter
Funk, Ira Barnes
Rice, John Turner
Galway, Ney Cajus
Salisbury, Frank Melvin
. Gentieu, Geo. Wm.

ROSTER

680
Salisbury, William Benson
Scott, Strother N.
Shafer, Chas. Albert
Sherman, Edward Willard
Shibley, Arleigh Pierce
Stevenson, Donald Rankin
Stevenson, James Rankin
Stevenson, Telford William

Arnold, Mott Hunter

Stevenson, William Rankin, P. M.
Stuart, Ervin Drayton
Thing, George W ashil)gton
Thompson, Schuyler Colfax
Toprahanian, Almenagie G.
Varney, George
Waite, Charles W.
Weinert, James L.
-62
WITHDRAWN:
Nevills, John Nelson
Reid, Nont J.

ROSTER
Schray, Edward William
Scott, William Riehard
Swanson, Augnst
Symons, Willism John

Tappendolf, Mark Luke
Wheeler, William Hardin
Whitney, Harry El'Win
Wright, George Washington

681

-36

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Walker, Alfred Edward
DIED:
Withers, Lewis Albert

WEST LAKE LODGE, No. 392.
EAST BELT LODGE, No. 391.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
Masonic Temple.

Tuolumne, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Satur<lay of or n~xt succeeding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:
George Washington Wright, Master, Archibald David Ramsey, Sen. D.,
Tuolumne, Cal.
William John Symons, Jun. Dtac.,
Mark Luke Tappcndorff, Sen. W., Charles Grant McKenry, MarJhal,
William Jacob Mann, Jun. Ward., James Hansen Christiansen, Steward,
Claude Reid Kruse, Stewat-d,
John Rogers Price, Treast1rer,
Edward William Schray, Tyler.
Casper K. Goodwin, Secretary,
Paul Morris, Chaplain,

Archer,. George, P. M.
Beeman, William Soper, P. M.
Bergquist, Gustav Anthony
Breena, Walter H~nry
Burgess, James Morris
Christiansen, James Hansen
Fender, Joshua
Floyd, Richard Stinson
Gall, John .Hamilton
Gillice, James Oscar
Green, Paul Franklin
Griffin, George Albert
Goodwin, Casper Keller
Holland, William Irwin

MEMBERS:
Holman, Frank Christopher, P. M.
Ingersoll, William Leon
John1, Josiah
Johnson, Georg& Wa11hington
Kruse, Claude Reid
Mann, Wm. Jacob
McKe.h ry, Charles Grant
Morris, Paul
Pierce, Charles Lawrence
Prince, John Rogere
Ramsay, Archibald David
Reid, Eugene Hamer, P. M.
Ristan, Julius David
Ruwich, Alexander

Paul Overton, .~faster,
P . 0. Box 600, Station C.
William Theodore Osterholt, S. W.,
Charles Woodford Yerxa, Jun. W.,
J ohn Wilson Phelps, Treasurer,
J ames William Webster, Secretary,
care J . W . Robinson Co.

Thomas Jefferson Douglass, Jr., Chp.,
Clarence Edgar Cro11kite, Sen. Deac.,
Lewis Ernest Forsblom, Jun. Deac.,
Harry Gordon Manville, Marshal,
John Lynch Butler, Steward,
J ames F. Dixon, Steward,
Ralph Mo rton Seely, Tyler.

.MEMBERS:
Adams, Walter Franklin
Beers, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Anderson, Gustave E. F.
Bell, John Henr1
Anderson, Lawrence McClellan
Benedict, Henry Stanley
Arbogast, Glenn Elven
Benjamin, Charles Wilmot
Avery, Russ
Berdie, Oscar Charly
Bailey, John Emil
Biscailuz, Eugene Warren
Bailey, Richard Kenneth
Black, Chas. Willard
Bailey, Walte:r J.
Blakeslee, Lytn!'.11. Curtis
Baker, William Parnell
Blyth, John Arthur
Ball, Oscar G.
Boothby, Wilbur Hanson
Ballard, Russell Henry
Bordeaux, Ernest James
Bamford, Thomas Danes
Bowland, Leon Arthur
Barker, John Edwin
Brandenburg, Wm. John August
Barschig, Charles '.Ed"9'ard, Jr.
Bresee, Paul
Baum, Jacob
Brock, William Ernest
Bedell, Lo.u is Ru!h
Brockway, H. Nelson

682

ROSTER

Brown, Andrew McCormack
Brown, Arthur Cortez
Brown, Samuel Barton
Brown, Will Randall
Brunner, Leon Vincent
Buratti, Albert Lorenz
Buratti, Carl Louis
Burgoyne, George Francis
Burgoyne, William
Burt, William Jefferson
Butler, John Lynch
Campbell, Byron
Campbell, Charles Nicholas
Carpenter, Will Milton Varney
Chandler, Charles Lovell
Chandler, William Herman
Chapman, Francis Benjamin
Childs, Albert Willis
Choate, James Roy
Choate, Joseph Lynn
Clotfelter, Urill Thurston
Clover, Arthur Samuel
Coe, Edmund Wallace
Conner, Henry Tanner
Cook, Clarence Weing
Cook, Edward Jessup
Cord, Harry Arthur
Cornwell, John Bates
Cowan, Earl
Crampton, Walter Albert
Crandall, Elbert Earl
Creed, Eugene Elmer
Cronkite, Clarence Edgar
Cross, Brent Josiah
Crow, Benjamin Herbert
Cuddeback, John Emery
Cunningham, Arva Warren
Curtain, Milton Finley, P. M,
Curtain, Napoleon
Cutts, Winthrop Raymond
Danziger, Jake Morris
Davidson, Berthold T.
Day, Walter Chas.
Dearing, Harry Lummis
Defty, Emanuel

Dennis, George Charles
Dennis, Willard Wallace
. Dilberger, Frederick Charles
Dishman, Edward Francis
Dixon, James F.
Dopkins, Joseph Henry
Dopler, Chas. Franklin
Douglas, Thomas Jefferson, Jr.
Douglas, Thomas Jefferson, Sr.
Dowell, Bert Lewis
Drackett, William Bartholomew
Dunbar, Lorin Franklin
Duncan, Dudley Dion
Durgin, Walter Clement
Earle, Walter Herbert
Eaton, W. Frank
Edwards, Le Roy Mallory
Eisen, Percy Augustus
Farish, Oscar Eugene
Farmiloe, Cyrennis Tyghe
Feagans, George Elmer
Fearnley, Joshua
Fechter, Louis Giesbauer
Ferguson, Clarence
Ferguson, David Walter
Finley, Theo. Gawn
Flatau, Herman
Fleck, James Milton
Fleming, Edward John
Fogel, Louis
Foose, Charles Alexander
Forsblom, Lewis Ernst
Forsyth, George
Prackelton, William Burnside
French, Malcolm Harry
Gabel, Thomas Ring
Galbraith, Samuel Valentine
Gallagher, Richard William
Gallup, Luke Lundquist
Gamble, John Davis
Gardner, Cecil James
Gercke, Rudolph William
Gibbs, Amelius Marion
Gibbs, Walter Dickson
Gibson, Merrill Essington

ROSTER

Gifford, Harry Van Vleck
Gillette, William Winter
Gilmore,· Earl Bell
Gouge, Herbert James
Gough, Roy Walker
Goulding, Frederick William
Green, Lucius Peyton
Greenland, Sidney Albert P,
Grelck, William Rudolph
Griffin, Joseph Clifford
Groves, Cleveland Hunt
Guinn, Howard James
Gunther, Charles Winslow
Guthrie, Charles Bentley
Hackler, Charles Wesley
Hadley, Charles Ross
Hahne, Simon Carl
Hall, Samuel Cortana
Hammel, William Augustus, P. M.
.Hammer, Jack
Hancock, Paul Clifford
Hanson, William Gibbs
Harbert, Frank B.
Hardacre, Ralph Beldam
Hardin, Ferguson Smith
Harnsberger, Robert Miller
Harris, Frederick ·Ernest
Harris, Walter
Harrison, Henry William
Hartford, John
Hartung, Edgar John
Haydock, Clarence
Heaton, Walter St. Clair
Heavens, James Wm..
Henry, John James
H'erald, George Hyatt
Hewson, William. Thomas
Hildebrand, Jacob K.
Hillis, Marshal Ezra
Hodson, Chester Arthur
Holcomb, Walter Edward
Holler, Philip Wilbur
Homann, Ralph E.
Hoover, Clinton Dorsey
Hopkins, Benj,amin Franklin

683

Horton, Geo. Ray
Roswell, Wm. Burgess
Howard, Everand Ray
Howard, William Francis
Humphreys, William Morgan, P. M.
Hunter, George, Jr.
Huppert, Edgar Francis
Hurd, Charles Calvin
Hurd, Henry Mix, P. M.
Hurst, Ernest Le Roy
Ibers, Max Charles
Inverarity, Frank
Jameson, Harry Moore
Jamison, William H.
Jenkins, James Frederick Theo.
Jenkins, John Evans
Jennings, Charles W,
J ergins, A. T,
Johnson, Robert Heriges
Johnstone, William Albert
Jones, Beecher Morgan
Jones, George Henry
Josephs, Louis
Kase, Thomas Kenton
Keefer, George Lenfesty
Kehler, Henry Arthur
Kelch, George Henry
Kelly, Francis Asbury, P. M.
Kemper, William Bowler, Jr.
Kiggens, Jacob Thomas
Kinney, William Milton
Kirkland, Wm. Wildman
Kister, Hannie Julius
Kitzele, Henry Joseph
Klinefelter, Frank ·Osborne
Knoll, Dan Wilhelm
La Fetra, W. W.
Lashbrooke, Joseph Richard
Lapp, Clemens Elmer
Lauterbach, Samuel
Lawrence, George Edward
Le Noir, Frank Howard
Lerner, Samuel
Levin, Benjamin Samuel
Lighthipe, James Alfred

684
Lips, Walter
Lloyd, Richard Bunbty
Lloyd, Robert Benty
Logg, John
Long, Harry Eugene
Longoria, Alfred
Louis, Irvin Charles
Love, John Heyl Vincent
Luter, John Wesley
Lynu, Thomas Mason
MacGinnis, Edwin
MacGinnis, Geo. H.
MacRae, Herbert Dewey
Manville, Harry Gordon
Marine, Madison
Marlatt, Louis Brighton
Marshall, Ira Allison
McArthur, Frank Crum
McCann, Bernard Carrigan
McClure, ~'rank D.
McCuistion, William Jaspet
McDonald, Alex. B.
McDowell, Edward Emerson
McDowell, Elmer !toot
Mathews, John Robert
Melsing, Gustave Adolph
Mendelsohn, David
Mennell, Edwin R.
Metzler, Irving Schlesinger
Miller, James Weeley
Miner, Wilbur Thomas
Mines, Harry Garnet
Mines, William Wales
Monk, Edward Brewster
Moore, Henry Phillip
Moore, William
Morris, Clair Dan
Mortenson, Albert
Mullen, George Emmett
Muncy, Wm. Livingstone
Murphy, Uel Wesley
Neilsen, Oswald Sofus Crisjan
Nelson, Hugh Wellington
Noll, William H.
Norell, Oscar Aufelt

ROSTER

ROSTER
Norman, Ernest Edgar
Olcovich, Albert
Olcovich, Emil
Osterholt, William Theo.
Overton, Paul
Pallette, Edward M.
Palmer, Edgar
Parks, Thomas Billington
Parlee, Henry
·
Patterson, John Peter
Payne, James Thomas
Pehr, Michael Henry
Pellett, William Johnston
Pfaffenberger, Walter Gladstone
Pfannkuchen, Adolph George
Phelps, John Wilson
Phillips, James Samuel
Pierce, Edward Clarence
Polsey, Jacob Everett
Pope, Elwyn Herbert, P. M.
Potter, Elmer Claudius
Quimby, Edward Hiram
Reed, Burt Guy
Reid, James Arthur
Reitz, Harry C.
Richwine, Henry Oliver
Riggins, Harley Edmund
Riggins, James Richard
Rittigstein, Joseph
Rush, Guy Mansfield
Ryon, William Albert
Ruess, William Rudolph
Sale, Henry Thomas
Schmidt, Arthur A.
Schmidt, Frederick Wilhelm Theo.
Seely, Ralph Morton
Seibert, Edward Phillips
Selover, Samuel Adeline
Shaw, Bertram
Shinn, Clement Lawrence
Shostrom, Emil
Siegel, Nathan
Sih·erman, Bennett
Silverman, Samuel
da Silva, John Cordeiro

Simmons, Sebastian
Skinner, Alden Webster
Skirball, William Norman
Slattery, Harry E.
Sloat, Harry William
Smith, Frederick Morse
Sinitzdorf, Rudolph Fred 'k
Solomon, John B.
Sparks, Robert Stuart
Stacy, Jay Homer
Stanley, Harry Emil
Starkey, Francis P.
Steely, John Sherman
Stocking, Clyde Henry
Stone, Clarence Eugene
Sunderland, Egbert
Swalley, Harley Edwin
Sweet, Arthur Northrup
Swift, William
Talbott, John Chester, P. M.
Talbot, James Arnold
Taylor, Edgar Cleyrein
Taylor, Samuel Eugene
Testera, Frank Stewart
Thomas, John Wm.
Thompson, Cli:lford Jamee
Transue, Jacob Peter
Trott, Daniel Melvin
Truex, Amasa Randall T.
Underwood, Maro Franklin
Vaillancoure, Leon
Valentine, Louis Hewlett
Vance, Champ Shepherd
Vance, Ira Lincoln
Vanderbilt, Edward Christopher
Van Norman, William Vernon

Vestal, Eugene Gale
Vincent, Richard William
Wakefield, Orin Hoskins
Walker, Joseph Atwood
Walker, Raymond Curtis
Ward, Charles Webster
Ward, John Edward
Washburn, Frank Leighton
·Waters, Arthur Jay
Watson, Ralph Mott
Webb, Frederick
Webster, Frank Brainerd
Webster, Frederick Wiley
Webster, James William
Welbourn, Oclasco ·carlos
Wesson, Walter Perrine
Whitman, Charles Henry
Wild, Chas. Lawrence
Will, August
Williams, George Henry
Williams, Ernest Lindsay
Willete, Ray Douglas
Wilson, Arthur Roscoe
Wil11Qn, Christoph~r, Jr.
Winter, David Logan
Wollaber, Arthur Bertice
Woods, Henry James
Woods, William Wallace
Woods, Wilson Thompson
Wyckoff, Louis Elkin
Yankie, James Minor
Yates, Ja.mes ·Pagdeii
Yerxa, Charles Woodford
York, John Marvin
Young, George Arthur

WITHDRAWN:
Allen, Clifton Royal
Graves, Frank Fay

685

Luckenbach, John
Mcstay, Carl Elmo
W ashb'urn, Harry Booth

-373

ROSTER

ROSTEI:t

686

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Wakeman, Bennett T.

Marcus, Eugene

DIED:
Parker, Walter Francis
Splane, John Russell

BALDER LODGE, No. 393.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each Month.
2174 Market Street.
OFFICERS:

Per Edwin Pearson, Master,
Charles Gustaf J ohnson, Clwploi11,
119 East Street.
Karl Fredrik Straudberg, S en. Deac.,
Emil Hogberg, S enior Ward en,
Nels Steven Stohl, !itn.· Deacon,
Frans Otto Sjogren, Junior Warden, Carl H enry Mortimer, Marshal,
Arvid Hampus Bergstrom, Treas., Alfred Berglof, Steward,
Axel Alfred Lundquist, Secretary,
Frank Magnus· Hultma n, Steward,
410 Wells Fargo Building.
Frank Oscar Holmquist, Tyler·.

Ahlberg, Carl F.
Allen, Charles J.
Anderson, Albert William
Anderson, Charles A.
Anderson, Fridolf
Anderson, Gustave
Anderson, Hans Osear
Anderson, Olof ·
Axell, Allan
Barney, Rolland Eugene
Berglof, Alfred
Bergstrom, A'lldrew H.
Bergstrom, Gottfrid
Borg, Charles
Branck, Fritz
Carlson, Alfred
Carlson, Carl Anton
Carlson, Elmer
Carlson, John
Chytraus, Swan

MEMBERS :
Dahl, Thomas Peter T.
Dahlgren, Arthur Harvey
Davis, Axel
Edmonds, James Walter
Englund, Louis
Erickson, Charles
Erickson, Peter Erick
Eriksen, Edvard
Farman, Charles Edward
Ferguson, Robert
Forsberg, Oscar .
Forsberg, Samuel
Franklin, Carl P .
Fredrickson, Knut
Gardelius, Conrad Rudolf
Georges, Carl Leonard
Gisslow, Klaus Lambert
Gradin, Anders August
Gruggel, Ose.ar L. Christian
Hanson, Karl Erick

Heinrich, Emil Bruno
Hogberg, Emil
·
Holm, John August
Holmquist; Frank Oscar
Huiting, Frederick Benjamin
Jacobson, Carl August
Jacobson, .Jacob Lorentz
Jensen, James
Johanson, Johan Hilmer
Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Gustave
Johnsoll, Frans Gustaf, P. M.
Johnson, Joel
Johnson, John Walter
Johnson, Nels
Johnson, Manfred
Johnson, Mikel
Johnson, Oscar
Johnson, Johannes G., P. M.
Johnson, Richard
Johnson, William Karl
Karlson, Carl
Larson, Andl'0W Peder
Larson, George Pe.t er
Larson, Harry Y gge
Larson., Oscar Fred 'k
Lee, Joseph Edgar
Lindblom, Eric Olof
Liridegren, Gustaf
Lindgren, Claus 0- P.
Lindholm, Albert Lal'll
Lindstram, Axel Oscar
Lundahl, Vietor
J,umlholm, Corl Oscar
Lundquist, Axel Alfred
Lundstrom, Knut
Malmgirst, Carl
Manson, Charles
Mentzer, Harry
Monson, Olof
Moren, George Gottfred
Mortimer, Carl H ..
Nelson, Johan Frederick
Nielsen, Hans Jakob

687

Nordin, August
Nygren, Carl
Nystrom, Charles G.
Ohlson, Alfred
Olson, Alexander
Olson, Andrew
Olson, Otto Arthur
Palmer, Gustave Frederick
Pearson, Olof
Person, Ole
Pel'llon, Per Edvin
Person, Sven
Peterson, Carl August
Peterson, Charles
Peterson, George
Peterson, Gustave
Peterson, Irving
Peterson, John Arvid
Peterson, John Peter
Petterson, Magnus
Price, George Nelson
Ramberg, Charles John
Randall, Charles Henry
Rehn, Carl John
Renstrom, Frank Oscar, P. M.
Renstrom, Gustave Lambert
Ringholm, Knut Herman
Rudebeck, George Maurice, P. M.
Rutzback, Charles August
Sanden, Lars Frederick
Scally, John Edward
Silverek, Gustaf
Sjogren, Frans Otto
Sjogren, August
Sjolander, Carl Theodor
Smith, Joseph M.
Stanquist, John Victor
Stanquist, Oscar Edward
Stohl, Nels Steven
Strandberg, Karl Fred 'k
Sutherland, Albin
Svedeen, August
Swanson, Aaron
Swanson, Charles John

ROSTE!l
ROSTER
Swanson, John
Swenson, Jonne S.
Swenson, Oscar Fred 'k
Sword, Carl
Taylor, Henry William B.
Taylor, William McGregor
Tornberg, Carl AU(lllt
Trubeck, Nils Anders

Wahlin, Fritz
W alien, August Martin
Wallin, Gustav
Wallgren, Wilhelm Edward
Watts, Arthur Roscoe
Westfeldt, Gerhard Ewald
Wigholm, Carl August
Yngvc, Karl

-144

WITHDRAWN:
Andel'Sou, Gustave Edw. Ferdinand
DIED:
Brunell, Hjalmar Alfred

Carson, Gustav Abraham

UNIVERSITY LODGE, No. 394.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
721 West Jefferson Street.
OFFICERS:
Owen Roger Stafford Mastet
Jo hn William Whittington, Chaplain,
Los Angeles, Cal. '
'
Fredric Benjamin Comfort, Sen. D.,
John Christian Netz, Sen. Warden, John Alden West, '1111. Deacon,
Damiel Clarke, Jun . Warden,
Alfred Edward White, Afarshal,
Irving Macy Lee, Treas11rer,
Ralph L. Garnier, Steward,
Carl Cronemiller, Secretary,
Joseph Reid Henderson Steward
1574 W . Thirty-fifth Street.
Elisha Lyman Andrews,' Tyler. '

MEMBERS:
Alexander, George Washington
Allen, Charles Wellington
Allen, Winfield Scott
Andrews, Elisha Lyman
Andrews, Leo Bernard
Andrews, Norman Ira
Austin, Burton Elijah
Rnird, Algeron Lewis
Baldy, Thomas Edgar
Ball, Jesse Winecoffee
Barnum, Arthur Nathaniel

Battey, Walter Raymond
Beatty, Seydel Floyd
Bowers, Chester Herbert
Bridges, Thomas Mitchell
Brode, Francis Alfrey
Brown, Chas. Woodward
Brown, Edward Albert
Burgess, Stanley, Kenneth
Buss, Anthony William Frank
Campbell, Alner Garrett
Campbell, Verner Allen

Carls.en, Eli Oliver
Carpenter, Allen Ray
Clark, Elmer Joseph
Clarke, Daniel
Clements, Stiles Oliver
Cocke, Hugh
Collins, James Lawrence
Comfort, Frederic Benjamin
Crane, Charles Spencer
Criley, Clarence Holmes
Cronemiller, Carl
Cronemiller, Guy
Davidson, Thomas Farley
Dawson, Bonewitz Xerxes
Dawson, Edward ·
Dolson, Albert Orlan
Duncan, Francis Marion
Donnelly, Patrick Joseph
Dorr, Wm. Joseph
Downing, Charles Edwin
Edwards, Frank Oscar
Ellis, Arthur McDonald, P. M.
Erskine, Geo. Durward
Ervin, Charles H:ickle, P. M.
Flood, William Henry
~~lorcken, Emil Fred 'k
Fulford, Richard Seamond
Funk, Foss Simpson
Garnier, Ralph Lee
Gower, Henry Croswell
Hazeltine, Paul Richard
Henderaon, Joseph Reid
Heron, Frank
Hesse, Charles
Hollingswor:h, Karl E.
Hudgens, Archie
Hymer, James Alpheus
Johnston, Seward Wesley
Johnston, William Roy
Jones, Howard Fidelia
Jochimsen, Edgar Phillip
Keen, Cassius Harland
Kennard, John William
Kinney, Edwin Lawrence
44

68!l

Layne, Joseph Gregg
Linsdell, Walter Albany
Lipe, Columbus Joshua
Litterer, Louis Adolph
Lee, Irving Macy
Loridan, Florimond A.
Martin, Robert Mead, Jr.
McElwain, Wesley Edward
McKinney, David Forest
McKinney, Samuel Pease
Miller, Emanuel Abraham
Miller, Port Conrad
Miller, Tho~as Kilpatrick
Mitchell, Irving Jefferson, P. M.
Mosher, Marino Benjamin
Netz, John Christian
Netz, Joseph
Otten, John William
Pettypeice, Milton Henry Brownlee
Phillips, Walter Dyer
Rawlings, Charles Espey
Reimers, George Amos
Rich, Frank Elmer
Rock, Edgar Paterick
Shadinger, Roy Orville
Shepherd, :Fredric Monroe
Sheppard, Harwood Allan
Shollenberger, Eugene D.
Skinner, John Kenneth
Smith, Robert James
Somerville, James William
Stafford, Owen Rogers
Strait, Geo. Sexton
::5weet, Charles Hesson
Tartar, Christopher Columbus
Thomson, Archibald Percival
Tilden, Byron Timothy
Todd, John Gilford
Townsend, Francis Milo
Van Atta, Ivan Byron
Van Culin, William Townsend
Walker, John Douglas, P. M.
Walsworth, Chester Byron
Watson, George Cookman

ROSTER

ROSTER

()90

Willard, Brady Eugene
Williams, George
Wyckoff, Edward Blanchard

Watson, John Franklin
Weifenbach, George Conrail
West, John Alden
Whittington, John William

-117

Samuels, Alexander
Simon, George
Shadle, Herbert Martin
Topp, Thomas Martin

691

Sperry, Louis Nelson
Taylor, Bayard
Villinger, Harry Leon
Williams, Seth

-56
WITHDRAWN:

Ehler&, Paul Henry Frederick
Joslyn, Frank King
Pierce, Sterling Newton

Nobley, Frederick E.

WITHDRAWN:
Ramp, William

APOLLO LODGE, No. 396.
TURLOCK LODGE, No. 395.
Turlock, Stanislaus County.

Alameda, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS :

William Franklin Green, Master,
Charles Horace Bradley, Chaplain,
lc25 San A1itonio Avenue.
William Edwin Bunker, Sen. Deacon,
Percy Clarence \Vindham, S. W.,
Wilbert Shankland Condon, Jun. D.,
Charles Buxton Greeley, Jun . TVard., George Hyatt Hagy, Marshal,
Fred William Ray, Treas11rer;
Ralph Edward Kermode, Steward,
William George Chaplin, Secretary, James Thompson Rattray, Steward,
1323 Versailles Avenue.
George Sturtevant, Tyler.

(No Certificate.

See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
Geer, Fred Asabel
Abbott, Wm. Willis, P. M.
Giddings, Ralph Perley
Abbott, Geo. Wm.
Hansen, Soren Anton
Anderson, Peter Erick
Haskins, Beverley Powell
Anthony, James Buchano
Hodges, George Andrew
Bennett, Raymond Whiteway
Holton, Franklin Alexander
Bevons,· William Milton
Homer, John Semour
Bronaugh, Clarence Humphrey
Hudiburg, Alfred
Brown, James
Hultberg, Nels Olsen
Brown, Wellington
Jackman, Alva Dee
Carlson, Carl Cornelius
Johnson, Albert Wm.
Chase, Willis Smith
Child, Benjamin Wainwtight, P. M.Johnson, Clarence
Mains, Eldon Perry
Clarke, Benjamin Franklin
McCullogh, Samuel Boyd
Clipper, Allen James
McKenzie, Donald, P. M.
Clough, Ernest Linwood
Nuckolls, Holland McTyeire
Cofrinberry, Corwin Camden
Perkins, Morton Elroy
Cooper, Jay Oliver
Perssons, Clarence Edwin
Cuendet, Charles G.
Quigley, James Ray
Eddy, Arthur James
Rarrick, William Wallace
Edely, Henry Pierre
Raymond, Daniel
Fordney~ Wm. Henry
Richenbacher, Walt. Hartman
Gamwell, Louis John
Roberts, James Samuel
Garnsey, Louis James
Roselle, George Henry
Geer, Charles Henry

MEMBERS:
Condon, Wilbert Shankland
Bacon, William Robert
Cookson, Frank Spencer
Bailey, Lewis Smith
C"°aig, James Francis
Bateman, George Earl
Darch, John Frederick
Bateman, Isaac Christman
Dexter, Albert George
Bentley, Warren Nathan
Dodge, Edward Hall
Bernsten, Bernt Daniel
Donaldson, Mason Willoughby
Bickford, Edward Charles
Edsen, Carl Hinrick
Blair, Ralph Kirkham
Emmal, Joseph Burt
Bradley, Charles Horace
Field, Russell Bunce
Browne, Ralph Stuart
Foard, Carl John
Browning, Frank Elisha
Foote, David Howard
Bryant, Charles Burton
Gage, George Riceborough
Bunker, William Edwin
Gaines, Mark Edward, P. M.
Carman; Clyde Davenport
Garland, Alexander Murray
Chaplin, William George, P. M.
Grant, Ulysses Robert
Clark, David James
Greeley, Charles Burton
Clark, Herbert Deans
Green, William Franklin
Clintsman, Elbert Neill, P. M.
Gutte, Isador Julius
Cochrane, Archer Beebe
Hagy, Geo. Hyatt
Cohn, Gabe Moses

6\l2

ROSTER

Hamilton, James Kiah
Hamilton, William Duff
Hand, Roy Josiah
Harvey, Charles Fairfax
Hinton, William George
Holbrook, King Beach
Hopps, Robert Edwin
Jacobsen, Henry Peter
Jennings, Chas. Welburn
Koerber, August Henry William
Keiver, Chas. Woodman
Kermode, Ralph Edward
Latham, Alfred
Laughlin, John Owen
Lee, Frederick Adolphus ·
Lehnhardt, Harry Aloyisus
Lehrkind, Oscar Frederick
Limbaugh, Frank Ashley, P. M.
Lorber, Hugo Milton
Lovey, Louis Willia~
Lubben, John Gates
McWilliams, Robert Alex.
Meads, Norman Lansing
Mears, Charles L.
Mills, Joseph Stapleton
Miner, Clark Davis
Parkman, Harry Leland
Pierce, David Henry
Porter, Ernest David
Pye, Alfred Wm.

ROSTER

Rasmussen, Harry Robert
Rattray, James Thompson
Ray, Fred William
Ricklefson, Harry Herman
Riehl, Otto
Sauford, John Stanley
Schmidt, Peter Nielsen
Sedgley, Joseph Irving
Smith, Charles Henry
Smith, Elmer Germain
Smith, Frank Doyle
Spann, Wm. Emery
Spaulding, James Garfield
Stanley, William Henry
Staricco, Damon Nilio
Staude, Frederick
Swain, Leonidas Clinton
Thaxter, Harry Clinton
Townsend, Walter Boyd
Tracey, Robert Eugene
von Tagen, Chas. Wm.
von Tager, Henry Peter Frederick
Weinmann, Louis, P. M.
Weinmann, Louis Randolph
Weinmann, William Laidley
Whitney, George Hanna
Williams, George Sprague, P. M.
Williamson, Francis Arthur
Windham, Percy Clarence

-99

MEMBERS:
Marshall, John George
Abbott, Samuel Wilson
Martin, Edward D.
Allen, Edgar Rueben
Moss, William Carter
Bailey, Joseph Alexander, P. M.
Okell, Harold
Barber, Emmett
Partridge, Benjamin
Barr, James Chester
Patton, Clarence Albert
Bartz, William Henry
Pearson, Mortimer
Bevans, Charles Henry
Pinkham, John Ht>nry
Bowen, Edward Rose
Preston, Walter Arthur
Clark, Walter Henry
Richards, John
Colman, Fred
Rogers, Charles
Cowdin, Arthur Wm.
Rooke, Arthur Alfonso
Dunn, David
Easterly, Lester Lemuel
Schroeer, Edward Oscar
Shaw, William Henry
Ford, Wm. E.
Shea, John G.
Harrah, James
Shreder, Frank Wm.
Hartley, Clifford C., P. M.
Steves, Marion Albert
Heacock, James Hugh •
Stewart, Robert Anderson
Higgins, John Crawford
Stocks, John H.
Hodgson, Edward Clark
Sweet, Walter Stanley
Hubbard, Carson Bernard
Thompson, Frank Theo., P. M.
H~bbard, Clinton DeWitt, P. M.
Thomas, Richard Henry
Johnson, Thomas
Vignes, Ferdinand Henry
Kittle, James Francis
Walters, Alfred Eugene
Kittle, Walter Francis
Lalimmel, Edward G.
West, Carleton Egbert, P. M.
Leukfeld, Henry Frederick
Wheat, George Gay
Whitsett, All!ien Maynard.
Lindsey, William
Lowman, Charles Oscar
-55
WITHDRAWN:

RISING LIGHT LODGE, No. 397.
Huntington Park, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter Francis Kittle, Master,
Huntington Park, Cal.
Charles Henry Bevan, Sen. Ward.,
J:imes Chester Barr, fun. Warden,
.......................................,. Treasurer,
William Henry Bartz, Secretary,
Huntington Park, Cal.

James Francis 'Kittle, Chaplain,
L emuel L. Easterly, Sen. Deacon,
Allien Maynard Whitsett, Jun. Deac.,
Ferdinand Henry Vignes, Marshal,
John Richards, Steward,
Carson Bernard Hubbard, Steward,
Mortimer Pearson, Tyler.
0

693

Smith, E lmer S.

Weber, Louis

ROSTER

<l!M

ROSTER

FOWLER LODGE, No. 398.
Fowler, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John W. Pugh, Master,
Fowler, Cal.
Irving Parker Hunter, Sen. Ward.,
Joseph Rodney Dilley, Ju11. Ward.,
George H . Leon, Treasurer,
Chester Andrew Patton, Secretary,
Fowler, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Allen, Glen Loring, P. M.
Bott, William Simmons
Brown, Wilbur L.
Daugherty, Hiram
Dilley, Joseph Rodney
Harlan, William Lafayette
Hays, James
Hull, William Johnson
Leon, George Allen
Lusk, Walter French

Mason, Allen Ebert
Matthews, 'James L.
Palmer, Roy Harold
Patton, Chester Andrew, P . M.
Pugh, John W.
Richetts, Walter Scott
Rigby, Charles Cubbison
Smith, Alfred John, P. M.
Weseman, George, P. M .

-19

WITHDRAWN:
Brause, Allen McDowell

FRATERNITY LODGE, No. 399.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Paul Rudolph, Master,
First National Bank.
Floyd Alfred Stull, Sen. Ward.,
Arthur Burr Langford, litn. Ward.,
Paul Furst, Treasurer,
H ugo Washington Otter, Secretary,
137 North Sixth Street.

Ch<irles Henry Nash, Cha.plain,
Louis Theron Smith, Senior Deacon,
Louis J acob Pfau, Jmz. Deacon,
Frank Harris Ross, Marshal,
Chester Roy Gaston, Steward,
John W. Nixson, Steward,
Marvin H. Conklin, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Gaston, Chest<:lt' Roy
Gilmour, Harry Wilkes
Green, William Wesley
Gribner, Frank Phillipp
Gussefeld, William
Haley, John Virgil
Hamilton, Charles Washington
Hammersburg, James Collin
Hancock, Joseph Edward
Hare, Chas. Benjamin
Harkness, Guy Herbert
Hayes, Everis Anson
Hayes, Jay Orley
Holknd, Everett Austin
Hopkins, Mark Forrest
Hornstein, Simon
Johnson, Samuel Edgar
Karsten, Henry C.
Kennedy, Joseph George
Koch, Valentine
Langford, Arthur Burr
Lester, William Walter
Lewis, Carl Kyle
Liddle, Chas. Fred 'k
Lillick, Walter Frederick
Lyon, William Penn
Malloy, Joseph Drumm
Marrack, Reginald Bernard
McClay, James William
McDonald, George Kirtland
McMillan, John Gilmore
Mitchell, Thaddeus Pierce
Moellering, Edward Adam
Monroe, Francis Merriam
Moreland, Samuel Edgar
Nash, Charles Henry
Nash, Dorr Edward
Nixon, John Wesley
Osborn, Antrim Edgar
Osterdock, Peter
Otter, Hugo Washington
Pfau, Louis Jacob
Pieper, Wesley Lincoln

Adams, Stephen Thomas
Allogi, Archille Ulrico
Bateman, David Taylor, P. M.
Bean, Karl Albert
Benepe, John Levin
Bennett, John Donovan
Bennett, Joseph Hubert
Bercovich, Harry
Biddle, Julian Heister
Blauer, William Edward
Bothwell, Earl Lewis
Brohaska, Fred 'k Cl!as.
Brohaska, Theodore
Brooks, Joseph Terrill
Brown, Frederick Benjamin
Browning, Pleasant Harvey
Burkett, George Parks
Butler, Robert John
Caldwell, Arthur Andrew
Carter, Walter Edmund
Chaee, John Rufus
Chase, Stephen Harold
Colen, John Thomas
Cook, John Wesley
Cox, Herbert Every
Craig, Hugh William
Crichton, Stanley Edgar
Curry, Guthrie Wilson
Curry, William Frank
Dailey, Morris Elmer
Davis, Roy Veatch
Davis, William King
Davison, Charles William
Di Fiore, Dominico
Di Fiore, Salvatore
Dinsmore, Dudley Fitz John
·Doeer, Louis
Du Brutz, Arthur Gabriel
Durgin, Henry James
Eastey, Frank Henry
Estes, Frederick Raymond
Fitch, Harry Howard
Furst, Paul ·

6915

6!!6

ROSTER

ROSTER

Plummer, William Norris
Porter, William Franklin
Prussia, Willard Leland
Robb, Richard Henry
Ross, Frank Harris, P. M.
Rudolph, Paul
Schluter, Claus Johannes
Sheriffs, Alexander
Simonsen, Louis Martin
Snietzer, Albert Henry
Smith, Louis Theron
Snyder, Charles Lafayette, P. M.
Spencer, Charles Meriam
Stubbs, John Leslie
Stull, Floyd Alfred
Stull, Karl Madsen
Swank, Wm. Jefferson
Sykes, George Frederick

Terllier, Adolf Ferdinand Louis
Thompson, Leslie Crowner
Thrift, Roy
Thrift, Alva Absalom
Tompkins, Samuel George, P. M.
Therien, Joseph
Tower, Arthur Richmond
Trembly, Stephen Bane
Waldorf, George Washington
Watkins, Harry Binninger
Welch, George Wilbur
Wideman, Conrad Joseph
Wight, David, Jr.
Wilcox, Edward Augustns
Wilkins, Andrew Gordon
Williams, George Edmond
Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
Yount, Edwin Walter
-122

WITHDRAWN:
Leland, Alva. Hoyt

BURLINGAME LODGE, No. 400.
Burlingame, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Alson Beebe, Master,
Edward Bell Lytle, Chaplain,
Burlingame, Cal.
Lewis Arthur Cavalier, Sen. Deacon,
Fred Talbot Colby, Senior Warden, Luther Eli Penniman, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Frederick Stapff, Jr., Jun. W., Walker Lagrange Scott, Marshal,
Frank Marshall, Treasurer,
Arthur Joseph Belton, Steward,
William John Kidd, Secretary,
Arthur C. Jones, Steward,
Burlingame, Cal.
Allan Raymond Hanscom, Tyier.

Alger, Oliver Effingham
Anderson, Arthur Alexander
Anderson, George Noble
Andrews, George Thomas
Batchelder, Edgar Barnard
Bazata, Benjamin Vaclav
Beebe, George Alson

MEMBERS :
Belton, Arthur Joseph
Belton, Fred Blaine
Bennett, Edward Olin
Berg, August
Bettelheim, Hugo Joseph
Billings, Homer A.
Bovee, Clarence Frank

Bradbury, Thomas
Brewer, William A.
Carlson, Carl Alfred
Cavalier, · Lewis Arthur
Chrisman, John Morris
Christman, Henry S. J.
Cleese, John Peter
Colby, Fred Talbot
Crossett, Frank
Daudistel, Arthur Steven
Danielson, Hans Tobias
Dessin, Wilkie Janssen
Diggles, Robert Newton
Dow, Alfred William
Easton, Ansel Mills
Edwards, John Arthur
Elder, James Edward
Eldred, William Henry
Epting, Edward
Farrell, George
Foster, Charles Tilden
Frost, Horatio TerreM
Geary, Edward Hamilton
Giles, William Sherman
Goss, P. Bantacon
Gray, Thomas
Gray, 'l'homas Henry
Hammond, Edward Conrad
Hansen, August Raymond
Hanscom, A-ilan Raymond
Held, Ernest
Heuer, Frank
Jellinek, Charles, P. M.
Jones, Arthur Caradoc
Jones, Edward
Kidd, William John, P. M.
Krug, Albert
Lalanne, Lawrence Marvin
Lange, Eric

697

Lindgren, Chas. John
Little, Walter John
Logan, Ross Clay
Lorton, Frederick Douglas, P. M.
Lyon, George Frederick
Lytle, Edwin Bell
Maier, Henry
Marshall, Frank
Meek, Thomas Herbert
Momberg, Gustave Adolph
Moores, Eldridg~, Morton
Murch, Louis Augustine, P. M.
Murray, Edward Francis
Nelson, James Arthur
Noyes, Charles Sedgwick
Offield, Archibald Leonard
Oliphant, Edward
Penniman, Luther Eli
Regan, Harry William
Rehe, John
Robb, Jesse Calvin
Rowald, William Frederick
Scott, John Thomas
Scott, Walter Lagrange, P. M.
Selander, Fred ·
Skellenger, Frank Herbert
Smalridge, Chas. Evens
Stapf!', William Frederick, Jr.
Straug, John
Sweeney, Everett William
Tiddy, Archie Dewar
Trist, Frederick James
Watts, Frank William
Weagant, Geo. E.
White, John Miller
Wilkinson, Frank Snell
Williams, Clarence
Wisker, l!,rank Gavin
Woolley, William Henry
-92

WITHDRAWN:
McEwen, Dnniel Hudson
DIED:
Ordway, Chester Roy

ROS'l'EH

G!l8

BAY VIEW LODGE, No. 401.
Oakland, Alameda. County.

Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Robert Tilley, Master,
William Robert Rend, Chaplain,
1117 Fifty-third Street.
Harry Edwin Jarman, Sen. Deacon,
Albert Francis Loosie, Sen. Ward., Percival L. D. Rankin, Jun. Deacon,
Fred William Wetmore, Jun. Ward., Frederick James Clifford, Marshal,
Harry Edward Brittingham, Treas., George Frederick Eggers, Steward,
Leroy W. Potter, Secretary,
Harry Elmer Long, Steward,
948 Apgar Street.
Robert Ferguson Ellison, Tyle1·.

Alexander, Thomas
Baird, Percival
Baker, Gwyn Harvey, P. M.
Baker, James Bedford
Baker, Ned Duncan
Bird, Robert John
Blake, William Henry
Bower, Abram
Boyer, James Hoffman
Brandt, Fred 'k Henry
Bray, Eustace Vivian
Briggs, Frederick
Brittingham, Harry Edward
Brisley, George Daniel
Brobeck, Hartford Thurman
Brown, Jesse Hay
Burrow, George William
Buswell, James Morgan
Cain, Leslie Merrill
Callaghan, Harvey Mead
Callahan, Richard Edward
Catford, Dudley Alleyn
Champlin, Ira Orlando
Chauvaldjy, Nicholas
Clark, Byron Walton
Clarke, George Russell
Clifford, Frederick James
Collins, William David
Colman, Ellis

MEMBERS:
Curtis, Elmer Eaton
Da Costa, Fernando Augusto
De Braal, William
Decker, Nias Myron
De Voe, Robert McCord
Dow, Hezekiah
Downing, Frank Milton
Edwards, Henry Frederick
Eggers, George Frederick
Elliott, George
Ellison, Robert Ferguson
Faulkner, Howard Joshua
Fisk, Arthur William
Fredrickson, Oscar Frederick
Fritz, Frederick Howard
Gardiner, William ·
George, Edwin Lewis
Girdwood, Robert Bengo
Goldspring, Harry James
Goold, Geo. Rollin
Gould, Harry
Grabill, Frank Ben;jamin
Granholt, Charles
Griesemer, Abraham R.
Hansen, Peter Lundtang
Haroldson, Andrew
Harrell, William Owen
Harrington, Harris Francis
Hathaway, George Wirt

ROSTER

699

Henery, William Donaldson
Potter, James Pearson
Hindrelet, Frank
Potter, Leroy W., P. M.
Hodgdon, Clarence Walter
Raahange, Jacob Feldtman
Hollstein, George
Ramsay, Paul Judkin
Hull, Renick Winn
Rankin, Percival Lockhart D.
, Hunt, George Walter
Rawson_, John Sidney G.
Janson, Carl
Reud, Wm. Robert
Jarman, Harry Edwin
Rittler, John Baptist
Kimble, Charles, P. M.
Rix, George Vallentin
Knowles, .Samuel Henry
Robinson, Edward Oscar
Lang, Augustus Chas.
Rodman, George Edward
Lemons, John Crockett
Segal, Sollie Charles
Leonhardt, John Richard
Shattuck, John Webster
Levy, Louis ().
Shaw, James Samuel
Lilienthal, Julius
Seybold, Harry Bond
Livingston, Abraham
Short, George Henry
Lloyd, Charles Edward
Silveria, Joaquin Antonio
Long, Harry Elmer
Smith, Erastus Floyd
Lovsie, Albert Francis
Smith, Mortimer
Ludlow, Charles Edward
Somersett, John Christopher
Lyon, Charles Edward
Spies, Philip Carl
Mackenzie, James Richard Donald Spott, Louis Harry
Maganini, Joseph Francis
' Spott, Paul August
Mallatratt, Geo. Henry
Steiger, William Joseph
Marble, Carroll Mason
Stevens, Earl Douglas
Marshall, Harry Woodward
Stibbins, Frank Hamilton
Marshall, William
Sturgeon, William Alberti
Matheson, Joseph James
Suiter, Henry Arthur
McGuire, Huburtus
Terrill, John Byron
Miller, Edward Wesley
'fhQmas, Ellis Irvine
Monk, John William James
Tilley, Thomas Robert
Morrill, George Albert
Truelsen, Bertel Knudsen
Mott, Percy Robert
Tupper, Thad Morey
Muir, James Black
Van Wye, Leslie
Murray, Andrew
Van Wye, Scott
Myers, Blake David
Walker, Thomas Gordon
Nall, George Cookman
Wehman, Henry Frank Herman
Parrot, William
Wetmore, Fred Wm.
Parsons, Fred 'k Dwight
Whitehurst, Wm. Lee
Paulson, Frank Ryland
Whitten, Carroll H., P. M.
Paulson, Paul Antone
Wilson, Sidney Homer, P. M.
Piltz, Adolf Christian
·Yarovenko, Paul P.
Piltz, Stanley Adolf
-143

ROS'l'ER

ROSTER

700

Baker, Harry Clay
*Hill, Horton Overton

WITHDRAWN:
Ingram, Robert Henry
Jenkins, John

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Schuster, Joseph William
DIED:
Adler, Adolph

Nice, Charles Evart
Osborne, Clarence Roy
Park, Clare:p.ce John, P. M.
Pound, Earl Clifford
Randall, William Trafton
Rishell, George Howard
Shaw, Linden Franklin

Stafford, Percy Munroe
Stahl, Herbert Oscar
Stilgebouer, Edward B.
Wade, George Royal
Welcome, George Theodore
Withrow, Frank
Witter, Myron David

701;

-46

WITHDRAWN:
Jones, Harris Allen

Whelan, William Henry
DIED:

•Degrees conferred during the year.

Cooke, John Lebert

Stormer, David Allman

BRAWLEY LODGE, No. 402.
Brawley, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edward B. Stilgebouer,. Master,
William Trafton Randall, Sen. Deac.,
Brawley, Cal.
James Albert Godwin, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Evert Nice, Senior Warden, Herbert Lionel Fulton, Marshal,
Laurence Lease! Lindsay, Jun. W., Joseph Wilson Cox, Steward,
William T. Dunn, Treasurer,
John Nelson Nevills, Steward,
Philo Jones, Secretary,
John David Bennett, Tyler.
. Brawley, Cal.
Akin, Jerome
Anderson, Paul Pierre
Baker, James Perry
Baum, Harry
Bennett, John David
Cox, Joseph Wilson
DeBoise, Edward Arthur
Dunn, William Tricky
Eaton, William Clarence
Eckert, Adolph Folker, P. M~
Eckert, Carl Frederick
Fuller, Evlyn Millard
Fulton, Herbert Lionel, P. M.
Garber, Arthur Elmer
Godwin, James Albert
Gonder, Roy Eugene

MEMBERS:
Henarickson, Max
Irwin, Ben Dyer
Johnson, Adolph Leonard
Jones, Philo
Keener, William Alex.
Klasgye, John William
Lefner, Dock Randall
Lindsey, Laurence Leasel
Long, Frank Wilson
Manahan, Wm. Laurence
Mann, Wm. Walker
Mitchell, Edwin Leslie
Moore, Alvin Ray
Morgan, Soloman Rether
Morrison, David Lacy
Nevills, John Nelson

YERBA BUENA LODGE, No. 403.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Ezra Powell, Master,
Augustin Andre Gifford, Sen. Deac.,
1104 Peralta Street.
John Martin Hencken, Jun. Deacon,
Merrick Cheney Hersey, Sen. W.,
Paul Alonzo Mariotte, Marshal,
Earl Vincent Stevenson, Jun. Ward., Russel Louis Countryman, Steward,
Frederick William Yokum, Treas., Martin Charles Hencken, Steward,
Edward Pell Cook, Secretary,
Charles Edward Ostrander, Tyler.
509 Fourteenth Street.

MEMBERS:
Ainsworth, Russell Turner
Anderson, Carl Edwin
Bailey, Bert H.
Bauer, Adolph Gustave
Belden, Leo Vallejo
Bilger, Frank William
Bowers, Jacob Lawson
Breman, John Abram
Campbell, Charles Hardie
Carter, ·Horace Valentine
Chrissman, Franks Peter
Christensen, Charles
Clow, Goorge B. Newell
Cole, Phillip Sheridan
Collister, :i;,1oyd French

Comstock, Harry Oswald
Conradi, Philip Louis, Jr.
Oook, Edward Pell
Cornish, Fred Earl
Countryman, Russell Louis
Crabtree, Converse Warren
Cropsey, E. Dexter
Cropsey, Giles Barrett
Dingley, Charles Llewellen
Dowdle, Everett Stanley
Drake, Fred Hugh
Edwards, Corman Orval
Endries, Robert Charles
Enke, Albert Adolphus
E verson, Charles

702

Faraday, George Arthur
Olson, Alfred
Featherly, Rice Alvin
Olson, Lawren ce Elias
Fisher, Gustav August
Ostrander, Charles Edward
Foote, Henry Gale
Overly, Charles Hendrix
Foulkes, Edward Thomas
Pardue, Frank Ramsey
Fricke, Hubert Theodore
Parker, Rob ert Clarence
Gifford, Augustin Andre
Patterson, Hubert Clyde
Gimmell, Charles Louis
Pearson, Joseph Cassius
Golden, George Charles
Penfield, Charles Augustus
Goodman, Arthur Ralph
Peterson, Ray Edmond
Gould, Guy Torrence
Place, Niles Wesley
Gray, Albert Warren
Powell, Charles Ezra
Gray, Harry Edwin
Ransome, Joseph Spang
Green, Harry Ellsworth
Rickey, Wm. Bope
Hammell, Alfred Lawson
Rieser, Gharles Albert
Hencken, John Martin
Robinson, Frank
Hencken, Martin Chas.
Ronald, Thomas Doane
Henderson, Johnston Alfred
R•1le, John M.
Henderson, Joseph James
Shannon, Lewis Cummings
Hersey, Merrick Cheney
Smith, .Tames Ernest
Hillyer, Frederick Eugene
Smith, Wordie Poe
Hoover, Frederick Wheaton
Stalder, Edward Cutten
Johnston, Horace Everett
Stalder, Joseph M.
Jarvis, Charles Fitz Howard
Stalder, Walter
Kent, Robert Willis
Starbuck, Henry Fletcher, P. M.
King, Fred 'k Augustus
Steinbach, Henry Charles
Le Ballister, Frederick William, P.M.Stevenson, Earle Vincent
L eedy, Charles Stewart
'l'hompson, William Milton
Leet, Lewis Cass
Vane, James Playford
Lemen, Oscar Scott
Vis, Adrian
Lent, Wm .•John
Von Schuckman, Norman
Madeley, George 'Voodland
Wainwright, Wm. Donahue
Mandler, Walter Paul
Wallmann, Austin Norris
Marriotte, Paul Alonzo, P. M.
Wallman, Johann Gordan
Marston, Fred Coburn
Wanzer, James Olin
McConaughey, Harry Ed.
White, Guy Chalmers
McDonald, Nathaniel Edward
Whitehead, James Edwin
McFarlane, Archibald
Wilde, William Thorwald E. Alex.
McPherson, Arthur Rand
Williams, Fred Smith
Merrill, Arthur William
Williams, Robert Vincent
Meyer, Albert Christian
Yokum, Fred'k Wm.
Moyer, Frank Dunning
Ziegler, Arthur Herman
-114
Bell, Harry C.

ROSTER

ROSTER

·WITHDRAWN:
Dodsworth, Robert M.
Craig, Claude Carpenter

703

GLENDORA LODGE, No. 404.
Glendora, Los Angeles County.
Statetl Meetings, first 'l'hursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Leslie A lex ander Warren, Mast er,
ueo q;,e Basil Gordon, Chaplai11 ,
Glendo ra, Cal.
H erb ert Clifton Warren, S en. Dc11c,
1 ha ms E Lie rt Wall;:ce, Sc11 . H' ard., 0.ive; Roy Long, Ji<11ior Deacon ,
Hugh T ayl or Gordon, Jr., Jun . W ., R clfe Bishop Bidwell, Marshal,
Frank Eug·tnc Odell, Treasur er,
r1a rold Home• Loose, Steward ,
Aubrey \V atha McCraw, Secretary , ,.ob. rt Dewar Knceshaw, Tyler.
Clendora, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Matney, Charles Detroit
Ashby, Nathan James, P. M.
McNair, James Birtley
Bain, William Guy
Mullholland, Irving Henry
Bandholt, Juan F.
Odell, Frank Eugene
Bell, Otis Freeman
Odell, Glenn Eugene
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop, P. M.
Quick, John
Blackenship,' Roland Foreman
Ragan, Charles
Cook, William Henry
Rogers, Andrew Berry
Deshields, John Walter
Roll, Fland
Gordon, Charles Franklin
Smiley, John
Gordon, George Basil, P. M.
Smith, Frank Richard
Gordon, Hugh Taylor
Suydam, Keith McDonald
Gs chwind, Otto Fred 'k
'faylor, B. Frank
Howard, 'Vallace Lawton
Wallace, Thomas Elbert
Jones, John Atlas
Wari;~n, Charles Maveo
Jones, John Atlas, Jr.
Warren, Herbert Clifton
Kamphefner, Geo. David
Warren, Leslie Alex.
Kingsley, Hugh Edward
West, Wyatt Orion
Kneeshaw, Robert Dewar
W<est, Oliver Roy
J. . on~, Oliver Roy
White, William Horace
Loose, Harold Homer
Wood, Willard Selwyn
Mae.Craw, Aubrey W.
Worrel, Clana Vernon
Munderville, Ira Judson
-46
Worrel, Edward Wesley
Mathias, Jasper Chester, P. M.
WITHDRAWN:
Alexander , Michael

Smiley, William Harrison
DIED:
Wood, Selwyn Willard

BOSTEB

ROS'r ER

704

MONETA LODGE, No. 405.
Los Angeles, L os Angeles County .
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Hazen Emery Collins, Master,
John Edley Fitzwater, Chaplain,
5854 Brentwood Street.
Walter Henry Lobenstein, Sen. D.,
John Franklin Haizlip, Sm. Warden, Floyd Burke Emmons, Jun. Deac.,
Claud Horner Campbell, Jun. Ward., Raymond Austin Zimmer, Marshal,
........................................, Treasurer,
Wallace Archie Ward, Steward,
Guy Llewellyn Davis, Secretary,
Mark ·watson White, Steward,
924 W. Fifty-fourth Street.
Shannon Taylor Burke, Tyler.

Asbury, James Thomas
Asmus, Edwin
Atkin, Harry
Bakerman, Barnett
Barker, Edred Thomas D.
Barker, Malvern Clark
Beebe, Curtis Meserve
Bitner, Andrew Clark
Bluedel, Ludwig Joseph
Booher, Howard Alex.
Brondy, Samuel
Brooks, Ira Eugene
Burke, James King
Burke, Le Roy Lester
Burke, Shannon Taylor
Cain, William Howard
Campbell, Claude Hornor
Carlson, Chas. August
Carpenter, Jerimiah Murry
Casler, John Henry
Cates, James Thomas
Cavner, Clarence Mathew
Cavner, Mathew H.
Clair, Willis Morton
Collins, Calvin Douglas
Collins, Hazen Emery
Coulter, George William
Craig, J. C.
Cuculitza, George

MEMBERS:
Cunningham, Geo. Leslie
Curl, William Thomas Wallace
Dane, Wm. Addison
Daniels, Albert Jacob
Davies, Hugh Edward
Davis, Guy Llewellyn
Davis, Howard Woster
de Penne, Jean Emanuel
Devereaux, George Frank
Dickey, Talmage Yohn
Donaldson, John Robert
Dresser, Walter Prescott
Duncan, Ralph Albert
Dunlap, Robert Lincoln
Emmons, Elijah Alexander
Emmons, Floyd Burke
Evans, Geo. Wm.
Field, George Franklin
Fielden, James Edmund
Fitz, Walter John Edley
Ford, Frederick Halm
Ford, Leslie Blaine
Forsythe, Edward Richard
Frane.y, John
Frank, John Joseph
Frank, Morris Adolf
Fuller, Alfred Perry
Glick, Charles
Goetz, Michael

Goggin, John
Gotsch, Oscar
Graf, William George
Greenberg, Harry
Gregory, Robert Jathan
Gross, Henry
Haas, Oscar
Heizlip, John Franklin
Hamilton, Frank Irving
Hamilton, Wilbur Cline
Head, Thomas Fraser
Herzberg, Nat
Hines, Frank Benjamin
Hokon, John
Holmes, Chas. Herman
Holzmann, Marc~s
Huber, Fred 'k Charles
Hughes, George Isaiah
Hurley, George Marcus
[senstein, Charles
Jelinek, August Ferdinand
Johnson, Thomas
Johnston, Lawrence Thomas
Kaufman, Hyman
Kenneston, William Thomas
Kolle, Charles Henry
Kunzler, Norman Orlando
Lampert, Jacob Matthew
Leppo, Clyde Leroy
Lewis, Charles Eugene
Lewis, Harry Bartlett
Lipman, Oscar
Lobenstein, Walter Henry
Lomax, Robert Elsworth
Marleau, Charles Moses
Mason, Harry Shattuck
Mason, Richard Lowell
May, Claud Earl
McClellan, Robert Wallie
McCol!um, William Franklin
McKeon, Michael Thomas
McQuitty, David Cain
Merchant, David Nelson
Mertes, Anton
45

Miles, Harry Able
Mitchell, Chester Arthur
Moore, Eugene Beauregard
Moyer. Alto Ruete
Mulford, William Lester
Mullan, Nathaniel S.
Myers, George William W.
Nelson, Carl K.
Norwood, William Hyatt
Oakley, Louis Leverich
0 'Connel!, William Henry
Ogroskc, Charles William
Omara, Phil Sheridan
Osenburg, Frederic Lee, P . M.
Ostrup, Ernest V. Whitfield
Parrish, George Cornelius
Peffley, William Francis
Peissig, Rudolph
Perkins, Guy Carlton
Pfeiffer, William Robert
Piquette, Louis Seebode
Poor, Orin Leland
Porter, Ernest Dayton
Potter, Bernard Adelbert
Powedel, Charles David
Preluzsky, Joseph
Pruitt, Drew
Purcell, Horace
Purdy, Frederick Theodore, P . M.
Rajkovich, Vaso
Randall, Thomas Jefferson
Rappaport, Morris
.
Raynor, Clarence Rathborn
Redpath, Frederick Hope
Redpath, S~dney Herbert
Reisner, Winfred Scott
Richter, Marmaduke Arthur
Riggs, Clarence Gains
Rikkelman, Garritt
Ring, Merritt Mellen
Rohwedder, Walter Nichols
Roth, Herman Max
Ruddy, Thomas Jefferson
Rudnick, Bennie

705

~Q~'fER

7Q7

706

Russell, James Alton
Secor, Frank ·11(1ichel
Sennett, Freil 'k l\la11soJ1
Sharlip, Benjamii:i Murdoch
Sheahan, Georgi:i Eugane
Short, .William G.
Simpson, Lean
Spitzer, Maurice
Steele, Guy
Steinhardt, lsidor
Stephens, Herl)ert Ll1rwellyn
Stern, Charles
Stevens, Cicero
Stifl'Jin, John Wei:-lli;ir, P. M.
Stockwell, James Edw11rd
Stoltz, HeJ1ry Carl
Stoltz, Otto Alexander
Stone, Max
Suhr, Louis Wm.
Taylor, Geo.
Taylor, Harvey Jacob
Theuerkaufi', Albert
Tillis, Hamilton M11-rion

•Horn, Clarence Mell

Toolan, Wm. Thomas
Valley, John Hugo
von Stein, Heip.+ich Curt
Waddington, Alfred
Waggoner, Qeqrge William
Ward, Wallace Archie
Watson, Fred 'k Wm.
Weber, Chas.
Wells, Burleigh Ernest
Wells, James Bridgeman
Wells, Nicholas Simpson
West, Edwin William
Wethern, Eugeni:i Corydon
Weymouth, Albert Edward
White, Ambrose M.
White, Mark Watson
Wilcox, Charl!l~ Edwin
Willert, Joseph Max
Williamson, Everet Claud, p, M.
Williamson, George Eqward
Wilson, Robert James
Woodward, Charles Rohert
-192
Zimmer, ltayIJ'lond Austip.

WITHPRAWN:
Kropf, Louis Leonard
M11rlatt, Louis Brighton
EXPELLED:
Cohn, Fred

Smith, O)en Eugene

DIED:
Whitney, Fred Forest
Wylie, JaJileS Palestine

*Affiliated during tpe yellr.

BURBANK LODGE, No. 406.
Burbank, I.os Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first 'J1hU'rsday in ea!lh month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Henry Kline, Master,
Wm. Frederick Craig, Chaplain,
Burbank, Cal.
Ray Robinson Sence, Sen. Deacon,
Judge Thomas Shelton, Sen. W1Jrd., Hepry Amos Storey, Jun. Deacon,
Edward Albert fiscper, luri. Ward., &!ward Pa4l Jennings, Mprs/ial,
Jacob Arthur Swall, Steward,
E.alph Owen Chuq:h, Tr-~asurer,
Jahn Hector Anderson, Sf~u;ar<J,
George M. Qlin, ~ecrFtrm1,
Burli_'ln!<, Cal.
J<1m~s Deaken ~al~, Tyl~r.
MEMBE~S:

Anderson, John Hector
Bashford, Oscar Louis
Bridge, Ernest Haydan
Bridge; James Ross
Butterfield, Sampsoii ll!!-rrisan
Catlin, Charles WHJia~
Church, Henry Arthui:
Church, Ralpl) Owen
Colton, H~i-ry Le~li11
Conway, John C.
Craig, Alexander Black
Craig, William Fretljlriclf.
Dunning, HJl.rry Cq~e
Fainat, Fred H.
Fairburn, Simon
Fischer, Charles Burno, P. M.
Fischer, Edward Albert
Forbes, Warren Jesse
Fowler, Edgar BlaJJ.11hard
Fulton, Almond Samuel David
Gill, George Washington
Goodenow, Sylvester
Greenwood, Barzella Victor
Hale, James Draken
Hall, Francis Herpert
Huse, George Elmer

Jennings, Edward 'Paul
Jrlinl!, Charles Henry
Lawrence, Henry Eugene
Lovering, Walter A.
Ludwig, Uriah S.
McConnell, William Alexander
Murphy, Franldin Edward
N esselroad, Char Jes Peyton
Ogier, Clayton
Ogier, Thomas Franklin
Olin, George :Monroe, P. M.
:rupka, Martin
Roby, John Tolbert
Rouscup, Henry Wilson
Salsbury, Charles Edward
Senoe, Addison
Sence, Ray Robinson
Shelti:111, Judge Thomas
Storey, Henry Amos
Storey, Nathaniel
Taylor, Mahlon George
Thompson, Elmer Harmon
Thorne, Wm. Buckingham
Townsend, Wilbur
Wood, George He~bert
-51

ROSTER

708

Cook, Eugene William

ROSTER

WITHDRAWN:
Ketchem, John Edward

SIERRA MADRE LODGE, No. 408.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Coon, Willard Alden

Sierra Madre, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

LA MESA LODGE, No. 407.

OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

La Mesa, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

MEMBERS:

OFFICERS:
William Ernest Lyon, Master, .
Richard F. Gusweiler, Chaplain,
La Mesa, Cal.
Thomas Arthur Bougher, Sen. Deac.,
Harry Clarence Park, Sen. Warden, Thomas Jackson McKee, Jun. Deac.,
Harry Leslie Robertson, Jun. Ward., Charles Walter Leckenby, Marshal,
John Ann MacRae, Treasurer,
Donald Frank Park, Steward,
Robert Knight Haines, Secretary,
Daniel Lawrence Bissell, Steward,
La Mesa, Cal.
Albert Bruckert, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Lyon, William Ernest
Alford, George L.
Lyster, Ben Edward
Angell, John S.
MacRae, John Ann, P. M.
Atkins, Ben
Mallery, John Henry
Bougher, Thomas Arthur
Marker, William Maxwell
Brown, James Augustus
Campbell, John
McKee, Thomas Jackson
McKinney, Henry Albert
Canon, Byron Quincy Richard
McRoberts, Hugh
Canon, Solomon Royce
Darling, Wm. Rhodes
Park, Charles Clarence
Park, Donald Frank
Davidson, John Burbridge
Davis, John Bates
Park, Harry Clarence, P . M.
Reynolds, Eli A, D.
Gibson, Alexander, P. M.
Robertson, Harry Leslie
Grable, Sherman Clayton
Robinson, Ira C.
Gusweiler, Richard Fred 'k, P. M.
Russell, Henry Lee
Haines, Robert Knight
Hammonds, John Daniel, P. M.
Segler, John Atkinson
Hill, Chas. Wm.
Skinner, Asa Linus
Sperbeck, Alonzo
Hyatt, S. D.
Ireys, Junis Taylor
Stewart, Nathan A.
J aynes, Manning
Throustrop, Julius A. E.
Jervis, Richard B ebb
Waterman, William Ashe)
Leckenby, Charles W., P. M.
Welch, Lester Darwin
Light, Edward Benton
Wentz, Christopher
Hull, Charles Calvin

WITHDRAWN:
Clements, Austin Henry

709

-46

·Adkins, Spencer D.
Baker, Chas. Harris
Bechtelheimer, Wayne E.
Betts, Charles Henry
Biederman, Franklin
Bridges, Herbert Frank
Bridle, M. Herbert, P. M.
Bryson, John Alex.
Bush, Wm.' Tandy
Clark, Charles Merton
Clark, Walter Henry
Childs, James Henderson
Coapman, Geo., Edgar
Copps, Marcus Walter
Crow, George
Dennison, Wm. Perry
Deutsch, Emile
Deutsch. William E.
Depencier, Silas Theo.
Evans, Willard Arthur
Flint, Herbert G.
Gray, Charles Fred 'k
Hall, William Creighton
Huston, Chester Thomas
Jones, Charles Worthington
Kersting, Charles Shiller
Lawles·s, William Joseph, P. M."
Laws, Rowland Dudley
Letteau, George H.

MacKerras, John Deniston
MacKerras, Robert Hamilton
Mead, Arthur Spaulding
Mitchell, Clyde Withers
Moote, Francis Donald Ross
Morgridge, Geo. Burton
Nightingale, John Henry
Osgood, Josiah A.
Patterson, Jay Albert
Pegler, Carlton John
Peterson, Niles Godfred
Pierce, Edward Timothy
Sebree, Chas. Howard
Spafford, Samuel Herbert
Staples, Paul Chester
Steinberger, Harvey Hogan
Steinberger, James Milton
Stevens, Melville
Torrance, Lewis Curtiss
Twycross, Convers Lilly
Veon, Tracey D.
Webb, Harry Edward C.
Walker, William Edward
Welsher, Mark D.
Yerxa, Cabot Abram
Yerxa, Ernest Lee
Yerxa, Frederick Robinson
Yerxa, Harry Chester
Yerxa, Thomas Edward
,.....-58

WITHDRAWN:
Emery, Nathaniel Royal
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Grant, Ralph Rollo

.

710

ltdS'i'EB

ROSTER

HONOLtrLU LObGE, No. 409.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated ME!lltitigl!, seeond :Mohday in each mbnth.

OFFIOERS:
Henry Herbert Williams, Chaplain,
John Webster Wadman, Sen. Deac.,
James Cook McGill, Jim. Deacon,
Geo. Frederick Wright, Marshal,
Ferdinand ]. H . Schmack, Steward,
Malcolm Macintyre, Steward,
William P. Thomas, Tyler.

James Fenton Fenwick, .Master,
care H. May & Co., Limited.
Christian Foster Jenkins, Sen .. W.,
William Bell, Junior Warden,
Thomas Herbert Petrie, Treasurer,
Louis L . LaPlerre, SecreJary,
P. 0. Box 794.

M:l<::MBERS:
Ables, Lemuel dark
Clay, James Ffedeti<i
Anderson, Frank Harold
Cockburn, Alexander
Angus, George Hibbard
Coleman, Gano W.
Bailey, James Ste:iniet
Cullen, John
Baldwin, Charles Wickliffee
Davis, Hugh Geo.
Barnard, Edward Webb
:bow, Willard Elmer
Barwi·c k, Frank
Downing, Joseph Irving
Beardmore, Stanley
Drew, ,John Henry, P. M.
Belser, John Julius, P. :M:.
Durfee, Charles Hudson
Bell, Williari1
Evans, John Creigh
Benner, Edwin
Fenwick, James Fenton
Berg, George Arthur
Fisher, Henry Shepard
Bergstrom, John Raymond
Fraser, William Sutherland
Bierbaeh, Otto Arno
Frazier, Chas. Rtissell, :P. M.
Black, · Thomas
Gallagher, Hugh James
Blake, Frank Eiwood
Gibbs, Edward
Bowers, Winfield Lane
Gibson, James Bray
Broderick, Cyril Aubrey
Oibson, Thomas iterbert
Brown, Arthur Morgan
Giles, Henry Augustus
Brown, Charles Augustus
Graham, Chalmers Alfonse
Buchanan, 'Wentworth Moehonua
Guild, Arcbibaid Smith
Burden, Henry Waghorne
Hall, John
Burningham, Thomas Alexander
Hartwell, Alfred Stedman
Harris1 Thomas Paine
Burrows, Henry
Bush, John
Haney1 James William
Cassidy, John
Hind, Robert
Chadwick, Harold
Hind, Jblifi
Chapin, Elam Porter
Hoogs, William Henry
lihalmers, Joseph
Howard, Walter Linr.oln

Howe, George R!sdon
Huddy, Georg'i! Hermann
Iiutllhins, Clinton James, P. M.
Hyde, Harry Angier
Iaukea, Curtis Pillhil
Jenkins, Christian Foster
Johnson, Horace
Keech, Alvin Welty
Kelly, Edward Winfield
Kidwell, John, P. M.
Kinney, William Adelbert
Kluegel, George '.rayltit
La-Pierre, Louis Lafayette
Langel Robert Frederic
Levy, ju1es Milton
Lind, John
Loughet; Thomas I:tenrJ
Lovekih; Arthur Charles
Ludwigsetl, Charles juhh
Lyle, Alex. Jatnes
Lyle, James
Macintyre, Malcolm
Maconachie, David Brown
Martin, George Albert
. Marx, Benjafuih Lodge
McCandless, jattllls Sutton
McDonald, Jonathan Titus
McGill, James Cook
McStocker, Frank Blakesley
Meyer, August Wllliani .
Murray, Chas. :F'tancis, P. M.
Neal, Charles Micajah
'
0 'Bril!n, Ftederick Keighran
Olding, Edwin Ernest
Palmer, Frank Clark
Paris, Edwin Hall
Patten, Jarvis Roy
Patten, William Nunn
Pecht, George Helihing
Perkins, Roscoe Wiley, P. M.
Peters, Emil Cornelius
Petrie, Thomas Herblltt
Phillips, Peter Tait
Pond, Percy Martyn

711

Potter, George Clin tim
Purcell, Herbert Gurley
Renton, Geofge Fullerton
Rowald, Charles Frederick Geo.
Rozier, William
Rugg, George Ellis
Rycroft, Robert Henry
Sanborn, Walter Foss
Sanfotd, Arthur Nott
Schnack, Ferdinand John Henry
SedgiVick, >Jihomas .Farrington
fleveranl!ll; :Raymond C!ltnpbell
Shingle, Robert Witt
Smith, Clement George
Smith, George Waterman, P. M.
Smith, Helit;t
Smith, Jared Gage
Stanley, Wm. Fred 'k Lucas, P. M.
Steiner, James
Stewaft, Lewis Henry
BteW-111-tl, William Ninian
Stodart, Arthur Gray
Storey, Wm. Franklin
Tait, John
Tenney, Edward Davies
Thompson, Wll1iatn
Thrum, Frederick Wiliiam
Todd, Albert Edward William
Trent, Richard Henderson
Tulloch, George Prestly
Yan Dine, Delos Lewis
Wadi:nan, Jolin Webster
Waldron, Frederick Lincoln
Walker, John
Walker, Oliver Henry
Wayson, James Thomas
Welbourn, William Alfred
White, Edwin Oscar
Wight, J". Atkins
Williams, Fred!li'ick Thomas
Williams, Hen~y Herbert, P. M.
Winston, Emmet Claibo:·ne
Worrel, Rochfort liarry
Wood, Hubert

ROSTER

ROSTER

712

Young, John Alexander
Young, William Edward

Wright, George Frederick
Yeaman, James Ferguson
Young, Alexander Smart

-151

SUSPENDED FOR UN:M:ASONIC CONDUCT:
Murray, Henry Edward

CHARTER ROCK LODGE, No. 410.
Berkeley, Alameda. County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday of each month.
OFFICERS:

Max Alaric Plumb, Master,
5836 Lawton Ave., Oakland, Cal.
Albert Martin Poulsen, Sen. Ward.,
Philipp Nicklas, Junior Warden,
William Brady, Jr., Treasurer,
Edward Alexander Stevenson, Sec.,
2412 Milvia Street, Berkeley, Cal.

John Absalom B. Fry, Chaplain,
Ralph Winter Myers, Sen. Deacon,
William Amos Louis, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Robert Braden, Marshal,
Frederic Morgan Lee, Steward,
Charles Harper Walworth, Steward,
Leroy Johnstone Cope, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Biggerstaff, Eugene Knight
Aitken, Thomas Smith
Blake, Sherman Tecumseh
Akers, Charles Duval, P. M.
Blanchard, Dudley Ravaud
Alderson, Frederick Lee
Bliss, Charles Emerson
Allen, Albert Henry
Blomstad, Martin
Allen, James Alphonzo
Bonham, Louis Aron
Almind, Anders Emmett
Braden, Henry Robert
Anewalt, Henry Peter, P. M.
Bradford, George Hosack
Angwin, Edwin Lawrence
Brady, William, Jr.
Armstrong, George Oliver
Breckenridge, William Mitchell
Atkins, John William
Bruns, George Louis
Atkinson, Christopher
Buhring, Harry Hermann
Auze, Alfred
Burgess, Ezra Ottley
Ayer, Wash. Eugene
Burpee, Walter Joseph
Baker, John Donald
Camm, Charles William
Barthold, Robert Mathias
Canham, James Victor
Bass, William Guthrie
Cardwell, Edward
Battee, Albert Jackson
Chamberlin, West
Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Chappell, Marvin Lee
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, P. M.
Clay, Allen Morgan
Bennett, Fred Channey
Coates, Alfred Hoag
Bennett, Herman
Cobblediek, Frank Merion
Bell, William Jordan

Collignon, Dewey Philip
Comstock, Levi James
Cope, Harry Laverne
Cope, Leroy Johnstone
Cosby,_ Hogan Douglas
Coxhead, Franklin George
Crew, Joshua Stafford
Cunha, Joseph Oliver
Dalton, Russell Cole
Dawson, Charles Parsons
Day, Russell Traver
Dryer, Roy Elbridge
Dunlap, Luther Albert
Dowdell, Thomas
Edwards, Guy Dunsmore
Ehlert, Chas. Henry
Elder, David Paul
Eldridge, Arno Fisher
Farrell, Charles De Lattre
Fayman, James Wm.
Finny, William Norman
Francis, John Trigidga
Freeman, Charles Henry
Frenzel, Erdman August
Fry, John Absalcim B.
Fuchs, Christopher Bernhardt
Garrard, Edward James
Geiger, Jacob Luther
Gillehrest, Lawrence Raymond
Goodman, Harvey Pulaski
Gould, Charles Walter
Grigsby, Warren Miller
Haas, Benjamin Hermann
Hall, Edward Lee
Hall, Sherrill Woodworth
Harms, Frederick William, P. M.
Harper, Samuel Leighty
Hector, Robert
Henderson, Blythe Hendricks
Henderson, Edward Franklin
Hibbard, Duane Albert
Higgin, Frederick George
Himler, Morris Charles
Holling, Henry Wm.
Hollister, John Wilson

Hooe, Raleigh Pearce
Hotchkiss, James Miller
Howard, Arthur
Hulett, Stuart McKeuster
Hunt, Frederick Octavius
Ingram, Wm. Foote
J acco, Edward
Jaggard, Belmont Perry
Jameson,' Charles Henry
Jane, William Treganowan
Jefferson, Louis Weston
Jeffrey, Arthur
Jeffress, Ernest Gunn
Jewett, Harold Woodward
Johnson, Willard Callen
Jones, Howard
Jones, Charles Thol!las
Jory, Arthur Veryan
Jory, John
Jory, Stafford J,elean
Kendrick, Levi Jackson
Kettenbach, Oscar Leland
Kieffer, Stephen Ephraim
· Klitgaard, Carl Edler
Koerber, Fred 'k Chas.
Kruse, Fred Herman
Lance, Lucien Charles
Lee, Frederic Morgan
Linscott, Ernest Garfield
Longabaugh, Rudolph Ignatius
Louis, William Amos
Maderia, William Ives
Malde, Harry
Marsh, George Irwin
Marshall, John Albert
McCracken, John Porter
McGinnis, Richard Brodhead
McHale, Philip Edward
McKain, Edward James, P. M.
McKean, William Giles
McKie, Ernest Lester
Mead, Harry Ransome
Mensing, Harrison Rudolph
Mensing, Herman Rudolph
Miller, Frank Leslie

713

j
i14

Miller, Julius William
Mills, Frank
Misenhelder, CharJes
Moffat, James
Moffett, EdWard Davis
Moore, Clinton P.
Moore, Joseph George
Moore, Thomas Edward
Moore, Williatn Glover
Morris, Ira Allen, P. M.
Morris, John Westley
Morrish, William Franeis
Moulthrop, John Robett
Mouser, Webster Brain
Myers, Ralph Wibtet
Nash, John Henry
Nichols, Rich~td Griffoz
Nicklas, Philipp
Norman, Jacques Phineas
Nuttall, William
.
0 'Brien, Pattick Edwin
O 'Grady, Thomas Frederitlk
Ollson, Lester Edmonds
Olney, Clyde Chatles
Olsen, Jacob
Osborn, Harold Higgins
Page, Ernest Stoddard
Pape, George Louis
Park, Joseph :Mat'it>n
Parkinson, George Martin
Patten, Joseph Albert
Pearson, Frank Ralph
Peter, Jesse, Jr.
Phair, John
Philliber, Charles Louis
Plumb, Max Alaric
Poston, Newton
Poulsen, Albert Martin
Pratt, George Albert
Pratt, George Herbert
Raphael, James Grierson
Reid, Robert Lincoln, P. M.
Rena..s, Joseph Thortias
Reynolds, David Lawrence
Reynolds, Henry Cllii'~nce

ROSTER
Richardson, George Worth
Riggs, Dalton Waliacl!
Robertson, Ralph Denny
Robson, Fredetick Thurston
Roe, Joseph William
Rohlfs, John dhlitles
Rose, William Edward, P . M.
Russell, Earle
Rutherford, Peter
Salbach, Leopold Fredetick
Scheer, Gustavus Adolphus
Schulze, Desere Henry
Schumann, Otto Alfred
Scott, James Robert
Seaton, Horace Scott
Siegelhorst, Louis
Sellers, Oscar
Shattuck, William Joseph
Shaw, Addison Eugene
Sheldon, Hiram Ftanklin
Sherman, Robert Lawrence
Shields, Fred Rex
Shingle, Louis Cortger
Shuey, Robert Aiton
Slater, Jonathan Lambert
Slater, Lambert Norman
Smith, Harold
Smith, Samuel Wilson, P. M.
Smith, Willard Payson
Somersett, Robert Clinton
Souza, Emanuel Carl
Squire, Jay James
Stenger, William tienry
Stevens, Jerome Eugene
Stevenson, Edwllrd Alexander, P. M.
Stilltt111n, Charles
Starkweather, Gi!btge Aibert
Stout, George Homer
Strawson, William Pearson
Stutt, Edgat Banks
Stutt, John
Stutt, Robert Wash. Christopher
Sweeney, Henry tdgom
Terkelson, Albert Crist
irienken, Emil ftehry

715

Thompson, Ai:thut Elvelytt
Thomp!!dh, Chadwick
Tucker, Arthur Johti
Valenti~e, Edward Sharp, P. M.
Van Gorder, Arthut Grant
Van Kirk, Chatles Aaron
Van Kirk, Linford Reeder
Van Tassell, Fred BU~h
Walworth, Ch11rlee Itatper
Walworth, s..~berl Leonard
Wann, Willhrn Asbury
Warnick, Frank Russell, P. M.
Warnick, James William

Watt, John Nelson
Weber, Addlph !Ian~
Webster, Thomas Etlge:i!e
Weslar, Willard Howard
Winkler, Theophilus
Wolcott, Benjamin Randolph
Wolcott, tee Wh!!elet
Wolcott, John Allan
Woodward, Waltef LeRoy
Worster, Willilltt! Dennett·
Wright, Benjamin F.
Wright, Ernest William
-249

wiTHDRAWN:
Stbhe, Willi!itn Satnuel

DIED:
Shaw, Albert Lincoln

PERRJS LODGE,

No. 411.

Petris, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full :Moon.
OFFICERS:

Henry Morey Harford, Master,
Joseph Burnett Lorl!t, CUdplaftt,
Perris, Cal.
Edward Rudolph Stalder, Sen. Deac.,
Wm. Alonzo Guthridge, Sen. W ard., William Chester Short, Jun. D eac.,
Otto John Harizlik, Jun. Waril.,
John Edwin Nochiari, Marshal,
Wilbert W . Stewart, T reasurer,
Albert H. Dunlap, Jr., Steward,
Gifford Brown Gifford, Secretary, Charles Henry Cowles, Sle<t•drd,
Perris, Cal.
George Brum, Tyler. .
MEMBERS:
Adams, James Edwin
Frederick, Abner Rt11Hn
Anderson, Nils
Guthritlg'e, Wiiliam Alonzo
Gyger, Charles Eitner
Bernasconi, Joseph James
Gyger, ·James Hl!llry
Black, Frederick William
Brum, George
Hamblin, Alfred Stanford Brown
Cowles, Chat1es Henry
Handley, Pliny Atidfe\\rs
Crandall, Dell Garner
Fandley, Otho Nelson
Cummins, GMrgll Wash., P. M.
Hanzlik, Otfo J,
Ellis, William Henry
Haun, William Mars

ROSTER

716
Harford, Henry Morey
Hawkinson, Harry Walfred
Henric·h, Louis Andrew
Hook, Joseph Frederic, P . M.
Hungate, Wm. T.
Kim bell, Albert Thomas
Kirkpatrick, Thomas Dewitt
Lanier, Thomas Luther
Long, Joseph Burnett
Lowery, Joseph Samuel

Maxfield, Harry Prentiss
Michler, Robert Ray:i;nond Wm.
Noonan, John Edwin
Reese, John Wesley
Sheldon, Daniel W. ·
Stalder, Edward Rodolph
Steuart, Wilbert W.
Vermason, Cornelius
Walker, John Emory
Young, Charles Melvin
-38

WITHDRAWN:
Cole, John Leonard

CALEXICO LODGE, No. 412.

ROSTER
McHarg, Sidney
McCollum, Emmet Sylvester
McCollum, George Washington
Miller, Thomas Thornton
Morrison, John Allan
Pace, John Cowden
Pangborn, Edmund J. W.
Packard, David Stewart
Potter, Lawrence Addison
Pruett, Govie Paris
Reynolds, Samuel S.
Rice, Charles Franklin
Rice, J ease Marion
Rich, Henry Johnson
Anderson, Paul Pierre

Roskwood, Leroy Newton
Rouse, Herbert Milton
Shenk, Adolphus M.
Stahman, Bennett Herman
Stewart, Chas. Duff
Theobald, Harry Couch
Vandiver, James H.
Van Wagenen, Roy
Webber, Lewis Henry
Wofford, Preston Hicks
Wood, Allan Claire
Young, Thomas Earl
Young, Wheeler Burton

717

-56

WITHDRAWN:
Olson, Alfred Martin

Calexico, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Franklin Rice; Master,
Thomas Henry Hughes, Chaplain,
Calexico, Cal.
Lewis Heney Webber, Sen. Deacon,
Wheeler Burton Young, S. Warden, John Cawden Pace, Jun. Deacon,
Harry Holland Griswold, J. Warden, Walter Theodore Aitken,.Marshal,
Edward Grant Burdick, Treasurer, Thomas Earl Young, Steward,
Leve Simon J acobson, Secretary,
Arthur Grey Goff, Steward,
Calexico, Cal.
Samuel Reynolds, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aitken, Walter Theodore, P. M.
Edmunds, James Marshall
Allison, Joseph Chester
Giles, John Franklin
Anderson, George William
Goff, Arthur Grey
Becker, Adolph Earnest
Griswold, Harry Holland
Boyce, David Aron
Henry, Cha rles Burton
Boyce, John Ely
H offman, James Boorse, P. M.
Brooks, Due Phillip4l
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Brown, Carlton Baistow, P. M.
Hyde, Oliver Perry
Burdick, Edward Grant
Jacobson, Leve Simon
Calvert, Benjamin Samuel
Jarvis, Hollis Austin
Chadwick, Fred Charles
Jones, Percy Francis
Christopher, Thomas
Knapke, William Frederick
Cline, Frederick
Little, Leroy
Crocker , George Stephen
Mappin, Hugh Joyner
Dool, Edward
Martin, Chas. E.

WAUCOBA LODGE, No, 413.
Big Pine, Inyo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

MEMBERS:
McMurray, J·anathan Wesley, P . M.
McMurray, Samuel Goforth
McMurray, Samuel Bennett
Mendenhall, Harry W.
Mendenhall, William Wesley
Oberholster, George Washington
Price, John Frank
Reed, Stewart
Reinhackel, Edward
Schalten, Wm. Frederic
Smith, W alter L.
Turner, Charles Edward, P. M.
Wilkerson, Grover Cleveland
Woodhams, Henry Crane
-29
DIED :
*McMurry, Samuel Jackson

Baker, Napoleon Leon
Briggs, Walter Earnest
Custer, Rolla Johns
Davis, Wm. Lewis
Dowd, James Henry
Hall, George Wallace
Hale, John
Harlin, George Albert
Jones, James
Joseph, Louis
Logan, Frank
Logan, Robert Howard
McAfee, George Addison
McDonald, Allan Ray
McMurray, John Wesley

•Affiliated during the year.

,718

ROS'l\E;R

ARLINGTON LODGE, No. 414.
Los 4Jigeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated M!Jetiµg!!, third Thursday in e!!eli JilO!Jfh,

oFrICEBS:
Herbert Franklyn Iiughes, Master, Justin Theoppr~ BF01:Ji:s!~per, 9hap.,
1653 Third Aye!Jue.
Sidney N ajrq Reeve, S Fn· {Jeaco11,
Angus Leonard CavAnaitgh, S(!n. W., William Harry Dehm, Jun. Deppon,
Arthur Laggart J;ic)cson, Jun. W ., Stephen Ogden, Mar.,s/ial,
Isaac Freemont Hughes, Treasurer, Slocum Barker Npftap, ~tFii;ard,
James Clinton Lewis, Secretar~,
Lisle D. Smith, Slew1m/,
1606 Van Ness Avenue.
Eugene Leonarp Titus, Tyler.

Adair, George Mitehell
Adams, Robert Henry
Austin, Merritt Eugene
Bailey, Charles Fred,erh1k
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Bieber, J1tcop, P, lt'I·
Bolton, Thomas Lanc.e
Briggs, Harry J.
Bush, Edward Everett
Cava~ugh, Angus Leonard
Crawford, Hugh Joseph
Dehm, Wm. Harry
Dickinson, William mchard
Dietrich, Edw~rd
Easton, George Blakeley
Ensign, Frank C.
Erven, Jesse Earl
Garrett, Samuel Hartler
Gilmer, John Parjr.s, P. M.
Golden, John William
Gray, Lucien
Green, James S)lelley
Hall, Alµion ,\.sa
Hall, Glenn Co1ille
Hawk, Charles Whetzel
Hawkinson, Elmer Victor
Henderson, Wm. Frankljn
Henry, Alexander Ross
Henshey, Harry Campbell

MEMBERS:
Howdershell, Bedford James
Huffman, Frederick Burnett
Hughes, Herbert Franklyn
llughes, ~Sa!J.c Fremont
Jackson, Arthur Taggart
.T~hns, Wm. Herin!Ln
Kennedy, Karl K.
Krohn, Henry George
Leeds, Walter Ransome
lJe°jVis, James Clinton, P. M.
Locke, Edmund
Lowe, Fred }{ilJ:!e
Lyndall, Charles Pllnny, p, M.
Macurda, Arthur ;\..
Max, William 1'/mH
McKeeby, George Lellluel
Meidroth, Arthur Joseph
Middleton, Ch11-r1J:is Odel)
Montgomery, Orville Cooley
Morrison, Frederick W~!Jiiiin
Norton, James Lee
Norton, Sloculll B.arker
Ogden, StephllQ
Petit:fils, Evart Lain
Rall, William Cary
ft.eeve, Sidney Nairn
~obe;ts, Geprge Watson
Rose, Henry Howard
Ryan, Frank James

Slater, John He!!ry
Smith, Lesle D.
Specht, Josepl! Christiap
Stiff, Frank Lq::pi}le1·t
Sturgeim, Berry Albert
Trask, Dummer Ki11h
Van Pelt, Charles Norman
Walker, Thomas Eaton

Ward, William Allen
Watt, Fqink David
Wern, Otis Ema1w!'ll
Widney, Erwin Wilson
Willcox, John WeaJton
Williams, Wl\rr~n J;11mont
Wilson, Herbert }lruce

-73

WITHDRAWN:
Wimp:ress, Charles Henry

SILVE~

TROWEL LODGE, No. 415.

. Los ..t\ngele11, l,.os Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, seeond Wednesday in each month.
OFFlCERS:
Robert Wallace Burns, Master,
Alford William Filson, Chaplain,
231 South Spring Street.
Charles Leland Bagley, Sen. Deacon,
Jacob Solomon Fog<!!, Sen. Warden, Louis Delimore Hammon, Jun. Deac.,
Clinton Herbert Williams, J11n. W., Frank Ellsworth Judy, Marshal,
Frank Rae Clayton, Treasurer,
Johan Carl Petersen, Steward,
Allan Cowles Keith, Secretat:y,
John Douglas Tobias, Steward,
124~ East Fifth Street.
Adolph j. Maas, Tylt11'.
MEMBERS:
Altland, Edwin Neiman
Danziger, Morris
Arbuckle, George Brown
Dombrowsky, Gottleib
Arend, William Frank
Elser, Fred 'k Uris
Bacon, Richard Sherman
Evans, Charles Alfred
Bagley, Chas. Leland
Filson, Alfred Wm.
Baker, Rolland E .
Fi11her, Joseph Peter
Baumann, Fred William
Fleming, Moses Alex.
Bean, Walter Fran~lin
Fogel, Jacob Solomon
Bennett, Samuel Bennett
Fritz, Otto
Bishop, Artemus Henry
Geoffrion, Victor Oscar
Blanchard, Clarence William
Goldsmith, Joseph Hayden
Borden, Admiral Farragut ·
Green; Frank Erwin
Burns, Robert Wallace
Green, Th9rnton John
Clapp, Elbert James
Guttersop., Fred 'k Stickney
Clayton, Frank Rae, P. M.
Hahn, Benj. Win:field
Clayton, George Marshal McClean Halberg, Berp.ard Theodore
Covert, Angelo Theo.
Hamilton, Harley Erastus

ROSTER
ROSTER

720

Hammon, Louis Delinmore
Hansen, Adolph Bernhardt
Herbst, Gustav Adolph
Hicks, Commodore Perry
Howe, William Jay
Judy, Frank Ellsworth
Kammermeyer, Edward Chas.
Keith, Allan Cowles
Kirshenbaum, Samuel
Laraia, Artemio Wm.
Lee, John Ronald
Lewison, Andrew
Lockert, Albert Jacques
Lyke, Charles William
Maygrove, R. Walter.
Meday, Henry Hawes, P. M.
Meyer, Louis Median
Middleton, Frank Elmer
Millard, Edward Fred 'k Wm.
Miller, Rudolph Richard
Musso, Rotto Vincent
Natsky, Charles Gustav
Neeland, John Milton
Nelson, George Eliot
Neuman, Maurice
Newby, George William

Nichols, Samuel Arthur
Paul, Samuel John
Pendleton, Frank Dean
Petersen, Johan Carl
Phelps, William Wallace
Porter, Charles Hastings
Saxman, Wm. Henry
Schlund, Carl
Schneider, William
Shultz, Charles Edgar
Smeby, Adolph Henry
Stick, John Chester
Stone, Lewis Shepard
Taylor, Carleton Maybin
Taylor, Humphrey
Tobias, John Douglas
Wallace, John Kipper
Walter, Leland Dewane
Watson, Charles Frank
Watt, James Albert
Williams, Clinton Herbert
Wilson, Wm. Benton
Wright, Arthur, P. M.
Yerance, Wm.
Young, James Francis
Kemansky, David

Barr, Harvey Andrew
Bishop, Dexter O.
Cammeron, Wm. M.
Carle, Charles J.
Carr, Robert Morgan
Coon, William J.
Dowell, Chester
Gardner, William J.
Gearhart, George A.
Gorton, Wm. E.
Gordon, Wm. R.
Grimsley, Wann A.
Harth, Arthur P .
Henderson, Marion ·K.
Hunter, Irom Parker
Irwin, James W.
.Jackson, Claude C..
Jackson, Charles Benton
Johnson, Wm. M.
Jones, Wilet F.
Livingston, William R.
McLees, Edmund, P. M.
McLees, John H.

-86

MEMBERS:
McLees, Martin C., P. M.
Mallory, Charles Perrin
Martin, George
Morley, Wm. A.
Morrison, Herbert C., P. M.
Northern, Pleasant Moore
Ostrander, Philip T.
Page, Zina E., P. M.
Peterson, Harry Danziel
Porter, Wm. E.
Reed, George V., P. M.
Reed, Rayson Jabey
Redmond, Henry E.
Stegemeier, Charles F.
Sutherland, Albert William
Theis, Joseph P.
Trauger, George William
Trenken, Albert Conrad
Turner, John H.
Van Deusen, Ezra B.
Waddell, George Harold
Warson, Starr A.
Wymer, D. W .

72 1

-46

WITHDRAWN:
French, William Edward

WITHDRAWN:
Forsythe, Robert Allan

CLOVIS LODGE, No. 417.
Clovis, Fresno County.

LINDSAY LODGE, No. 416.
Lindsay, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each mont,h.
OFFICERS:
Marion Kinyon Henderson, Master, Charles J . Carle, Chaplain,
William J ohn Gardner, Sen. Deac.,
Lindsay, Cal.
Rayson Jabez Reed, Sen. Warden, Geo. William Trauger, Jun . Deac.,
Pleasant Moore Northern, Jun. W., William R. Livingston, Marshal,
Starr A. Warson, Steward,
George Victor Reed, Treasurer,
Albert Conrad Tienke~, Steward,
Robert Morgan Carr, Secretary,
Henry C. Strain, Tyler.
Lindsay, Cal.

Stated meetings Friday of 'or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Lewis Wills Gibson, Master,
James G. Ferguson, Sen. Deacon,
Clovis, Cal.
Frank Elmer Buckman, Jun. Deacon,
Guy Fawkes Matheny, Sen. Warden, Luther Edward Weldon, Marshal,
Vinton Julius Clifford, Jun. Warden, Chas. Jason Fenner, Steward,
Charles Taylor Reyburn, Treasurer, Frederick Mortimer Harbert, Stew.,
Albert Sylvester Kirkpatrick, Sec., Frederick Walter Smith, Tyler,
Clovis, Cal.
46

722

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Hendricks, Alfred
Anderson, Frank Arthur
Howison, Thomas, Sr.
Armstrong, Harry Elsworth
Johnson,
Herbert Guary
Birge, Morton Ault
Kirkpatrick, Albert Sylvester
Broadman, Nicholaus Ernest
Matheney, Guy Fawkes
Clay, Louis Edward
McCormick, Leonard D.
Clifford, Julius Vinton
Morgan,
Harry Clarence
Ferguson, James Gordon
Parker, Wilbur Bird
Gibson, Clyde Lewis
Reyburn, Charles Taylor
Gibson, Lewis Wills
Sargent, Winthrop Wm.
Good, John Ellis
Smith, Frederick Walter, P. M.
Graves, Milo 0 .
Taylor, Leroy, P. M.
Hawkins, Henry Edward
Touzy, William J.
Harbert, Fred'k Mortimer
Weldon, Luther Edward, P. M.
Harvey, Lewis William
-29
Hays, Nathan Henry
DIED:
Burton, Silas Barnett

ELYSIAN LODGE, No. 418.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month. ·
OFFICERS:
Arthur Beardsley, Chaplain,
Robert John Burke, J..faster,
Reginald Wirt Clapp, S en. Deacon,
125% So. Figueroa Street.
Charles Austin Jones, Sen. Ward., Rae Gird Van Cleve, Jun. Deacon,
William Thayer McNeely, Jun. W., Walter Vaughn Scott, Marshal,
John Taberrah Longhan, Steward,
Robert Daniels, Treasurer,
Warren Powell Wood, Steward,
Louis Buhlert, Secretary,
Elisha Robert Dobson, Tyler.
1444 W . Fifty-fifth Street.
MEMBERS:
Bell, Tyree Alexander
Andrews, J. Harry
Bevier, Ben Burwell
Armstrong, Andrew Franklin
Brassey, Rene Alexander
Aull, Ralph Wichgar
Brown, Charles Arthur
Bailey, Julius Francis
Brown, Claude Charles
Baker, Thomas Geoghegan
Buhlert, Louis
Bayley, Walter A.
Burgess, Philip Henry
Beardsley, Arthur
Burke, Robert John
Beaumont, Frank Carroll

Christes, Henry August
Clapp, Reginald Wirt
Clemmons, William
Coleman, Joseph Eeving
Cooke, _Thomas Cadwallader
Cowen, Bert
Craw, Ralph Victor
Daniels, Robert
Dennis, A_lfred Earle
Dobson, Elisha Robert, P. M.
Doran, William C.
Dunahoo, George Richard
Finlayson, Frank Graham, P. M.
Ford, Harry Reinheart
Foxley, Elvey A. .
Frampton, William Rex
Full~r, Etson Martin
·Gaines, William Albert
Garrett, Banning Charles
Gregory, Miles f::terena
Harp, Charles B.
Heerd~ George H enry
Hitz, Adolph
Hoffman, Arthur M.
Hollenbeck, Ernest Morton
Hood, Robert J.
Hornsby, Isaac Hersebel
Hudson, Frank Mooler
Ingram, William Marcus
Isenstein, Jacob
Jones, Charles Austin
Kaplan, Nathan
Kenyon, James Monroe
Kidd, James Gordon
King, Frederick Richard
Kitts, Robert John
;Eastwood, John Quartus
•Affiliated during the year.

723

Laws, Rex William
Livingstone, George Benjamin
Loughan, John Taberrah
Marshal, Clarence
May.field, William Owen
McNeely, William Thayer
Miller, Howard Alex.
Morley, Frank G.e orge
Morrison, Charles Shannon
·Morrison,. Henry Summerland
Moyse, John. Ira
Nichols, Michael
Norton, Frank Elder
Palmer, George W ellsley
Pende, Anthony Emanuel
Percival, Winston G.
Philips, James
Pike, Jerry
Rappaport, Max
Rhodin, Oscar August
Rose, Leo A.
Scott, Walter Vaughn
Silberbauer, Ferdinand Karl
Seligman, Guy A.
Shoults, Tracy Elbridge
Speakman, Harry
Stair, Edward
Struth, Carl Frederick Henry
Tatum, Herman Doyle
Trescott, William Herbert
Troxel, Enoch Aaroii., P. M.
Tully, Jay "tValt.er
Van Cleve, Rae Gird
Weidemoyer, Thomas
Wolff, Lorenz Christian
· Wood, Warren Powell
-'-88

DIED :
*Mead, George Robert

724

ROSTER

UPLAND

LODGE,

ROSTBL.

No.

419.

Upland, San Bemardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Albert Jay Hall, Master,
Jacob Leander Motsinger, Chaplain,
Upland, Cal.
Ernest ChTistian Mehl, Sen. Deac.,
Dorsey Gould Howell, Jun. Deacon,
Jacob Stocker, Senior Warden;
Frederick Chas. Froehde, Jun. W., Howard Orrin Ward, MarJ!tal,
Millard Filmer Palmer, Treasurer, George Milton Dundas, Steward,
LeRoy Bradley, Secretary,
Lyman Magee Clark, Steward,
Upland, Cal.
Alonzo L. Davidson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andrews, Walter Henry
Miskell, Oliver Louis ·
Bradley, LeRoy
Mehl, Ernest Christian
Barnett, Cephas Logan
Mooneyham, William Pleasant
Chaffee, William Riley
Monroe, James Frankland
Clark, Hudson Daley
Motsinger, Jacob Leander
Clark, Lyman Magee
Mumper, William Gatrialial
Crane, George Rice
Nichols, Thomas Milan
Davidson, Alonzo Stedman
Palmer, Millard Filmore
Dundas, George Milton
Rarick, John
Fuller, Charles Pierce
Rosenberger, Elsen Casper
Froehde, Fred 'k Charles
Sea yes, Clarence Eugene
Granger, Edtnond Hatcher
Simpson, William !:>.
Hadden, Abram Olney
Smith, George Pettit, P. M.
Hall, Albert Jay
Smith, Linley Herold
Hobbs, Ottie S.
Stocker, Jacob
Holtz, Frederick William
Thayer, Ernest Wentworth
Huntington, Arthur Elon
Tucker, Lawrence Edward
Hursey, George Wesley, P. M.
Tucker, Simeon Franklin
Jackson, Harrison Webster
Tyler, Labin Jehiel Elmer
Johnson, Arthur Hewitt
Van Wormer, Edwin Bertram
Kenedy, Harry Clayton
Wheeler, Henry L.
Laizure, Oliver Clemmens
Wimpress, Charles Henry
-46
Manderville, Henry Louis
Ward, Howard Orin

KERMAN

. 725

LODGE, No. 420.

Kerman, Fresno County.
. - Stated Meetings, Friday on or preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
I'avid Elmer Arnold, Master,
Elmer Ellsworth Kaufmann, Sen. D.,
Kerman, Cal.
Frank A. Whitehead, Jun. D,acon,·
Edward Bernhart Henderson, S. W., Frank Asa Snyder, Mar~hal,
Vernon Russell Churchill, J. Ward., John Ellsworth Strain, Steward,
Fr.ank Hamilton Snyder, Treasurer, Richard Gardner, Steward,
Russell C. Bell, Secretary,
Alexander Cowan, Tyler,
Kerman, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Arnold, David Elmer
Kerr, Charles Seymour
Barnard, Arthur Lee
Larson, Walter
Bell, Russell Carlile
Metz, Carl Peter
Brunskill, .Corwin James
Sandell, Amil Daniel
Carlsgaard, Peter Hansen
Sandell, Leslie G11orge, P. M.
Carnine, Newton Eqgar
Sandell, Lyle ]Tank
Churchill, Virnon Russell
Smith, Fred Anso~
Cormack, Robert Stewart
Snyder, Frank Asa
Cowan, Alexander
Snyder, Frank Ha!llilton
Fassett, Azen Samuel
Snyder, George Edwin
Gardner, Richard
Storgaard, Lawrence Holm
Hechtman, Henry Albert
Strain, John Elsworth
Henderson, Edward Bernhart, P. M. Va~ Horn, Herbert Emery
Johnson, John Alfred
Whitehead, Frank Alsworth
Kaufman, Elmer Ellsworth
Whiteside, Jules Alden
Kaufmann, Benjamin
-31

INGLEWOOD

LODGE,

No.

421.

Iuglewood, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS :
Albert Obando Wight, Master,
Frank Dyal Parent, Chaplain,
Inglewood, Cal.
Frank Sherman Friend, Sen. Deac.,
Wm. Sullivan Hudson, Sen. Warden, John E. Weltin, Junior Deacon,
Jo~n Aerick, Junior Warden,
Horace Hannington, Marshal,
Wilmot George Brown, Treasurer, Robert Dyer Aylesworth, Steward,
James Herbert Kew, Secretary,
James Peter Hansen, Steward,
Inglewood, Cal.
August F. Oestreich, Tyler.

726

ROSTER

ROSTER

MEMBERS:
Hardin, Louis Brownlow
Aerick, John
Hunt, Hugh Wilfred
Aylsworth, Robert Dyre
Hudson, William Sullivan
Barr, William Andrew
Hall, Harry Louis
Baum, John George
Joice, Peter Austin
Bieber, Henry Adam
Kew, James Herbert, P. M.
Bloodgood, Freeman Henry
Ludington, Henry Clay
Bowen, Earl
Monroe, Albert Folsom
Brown, Wilmot George
Moseley, Harvey Dewaine
Calkins, Edward Mason
Myers, Ellsworth Elmer
Calkins, Lyman Oral
Oestrich, August F.
Campbell, Harold Harrison
Parent, Frank Dyal
Cory, Arthur Warren
Shipper, William Albert
Curtis, Charles Courtney
Siran, Joseph Leroy
Eager, Charles Henry, P. M.
Spaulding, Edgar Warren
Engle, Carlos R.
Thompson, Flavius Josephus
Folkins, Robert Louis
Weaver, Cyrus Edquist
Freeman, James Albert
Weltin, John Edward
Friend, Frank Sherman
Westgate, George Luther
Galbraith, Henry Clover
Wight, Albert Abardo
Hackett, Zelma Gordon
Wright, George Elmer, P. M.
Hackett, William Andrew
Yeager, Franz
Hannington, Horace ·
Zillgitt, Henry Herbert
Hansen, James Peter
WITHDRAWN:
Martin, Harry Lee

EAGLE ROCK

LODGE,

Allen, Reginald Pearce
Bailey, Homer
Biles, Fred Eugene
Bourne, Harry Smnner
Bruce, Wallace Erwin
Chambers, William Henry
Chambers, Willie Lee
Cowan, William Keen
Diddock, George
Duoker, Peter Henry
Edwards, ·Godfrey, P. M.
Feraon, James Monroe
Goss, John Herman
Haskin, William Livingstone
Hatch, Leander 0.
·Hogue, Alfred Wright

727

MEMBERS:
Kilpatrick, Aaron Edward
r~aw, Robert Perry
Lyons, George Walter
McConnell, Henry Elmer, P . M
McDermott, Allan Maclean
Miller, Wilbur
Moll, Frederick Jacob, Sr.
Rettig, Louis Eborhardt
Salzgeber, Louis
Schneider, Frederick William
Stanton, Joseph Elwood
.T aylor, John Hartley
Weir, William Warren
Williams, Frederick Warren
Winters, Harry Lewis
-31

YORK LODGE, No. 423.
-46

•

Watts, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in ea.ch month.
OFFICERS:

No.

422.

Eagle Rock, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Wm. Schneider, Master, William L. Haskin, Chaplai1i,
120 East Ninth St.
Homer Bailey, Senior Deacon,
Wilber Miller, Senior Warden,
Louis E. Rettig, Junior Deacon,
John Hartley Taylor, Jun. Warden, Joseph E. Stanton, Marshal,
William H. Chambers, Treasurer,
Peter H. Ducker, Steward,
George Walter Lyons, Secretary,
Aaron E. Kilpatrick, Steward,
420 California Bldg.
Reginald P. Allen, Tyler.

George Washington Bryson, Master, Edward Lewis, Chaplain,
R. D. No. 3, Los Angeles, Cal.
}limes Edwin Rose, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Lewis, Seniar Warden,
Burgoyne Wolde, Junior Deacon,
Lester John Vanderbeck, Jun. Ward., Charles Braswell, Marshal,
Elson Nelson Lee, Jr., Treasurer,
William Woodward Coates, Steward,
Charles Robert Church, Secretary, George Morrison, Steward,
Watts, Cal.
John Sebastain Lange, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ables, Albert Austin
Duncan, Robert Crawford
Belieu, Virgin Ray
Gill, Frank
Backman, Leonard Leon
Gilbert, Charles Dial
Braswell, Charles
Kellogg, William Moses
Bryson, George Washington, P. M. Kerslake, Harry
Kent, Eagon Smith
Cameron, Charles Campbell
Church, -Charles Robert, P. M.
Lange, John Sebastian
Lee, Elon Nelson, Jr.
Coates, William Woodard
Dodd, Charles Henry ·
Lewis, Edward

(

ROSTEB

728

Lewis, Joseph
McDeall,. Jay
McWilliams, Alexander
Otto, John
Robinson, Lauren Dwight
Rose, James Edwin

Schave, Joseph
Smades, Hiram Norton
. Smith, Joseph Cotton
Vanderbeck, Lester John
Wood, Clement Franklin
Wolfe, Burgoyne Ellsworth

• BOSTER

72<J

HOLTVILLE LODGE, No. 425.
Holtville, Imperial County.

-30

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS :

EXETER LODGE, No. 424.

Howard T. J ones, Master,
J ohn B. Baker, Chaplain,
Holtville, Cal.
J ames W . Griffen, Se·nior Deacon,
Philip W. Brooks, Senior Warden, Leo F. Wulff, Junior Dea.con,
Otwin R. Ervin, Junior Warden,
A. G. Ingram, Marshal,
. Roger G. Webster, Treasurer,
D. H. Williams, Steward,
J ohn Kavanaugh, Secretary,
V. H . Azhderian, Steward,
Holtville, Cal.
Purdy Hart, Tyler.

Exeter, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings,. fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Francis Wilber Mixter, Master,
Elwood Rrastus Barley, Marshal,
Exeter, Cal.
Harry D. Daniels, S enior Deacon,
Thomas Clinton Newman, S. Ward., Clem T . Buckman, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
Richard Hugh Owen, Jun. Warden, Len Eugene Hayes, Steward,
Uly G. Knight, Tre(lsurer,
Harry Nash Neal, Steward,
Charles Kimball Crane, Secretary, William Fred Waterman, Tyler.
Exeter, Cal.
MEMBERS:
Askin, Elbert Leroy
Killian, Ernest Waldo
Ballard, Walter Philip
Kirkman, Grant
Barley, Elwood Erastus
Knight, Uly Grant
Bowman, Thomas Hitt
Little, Wesley Cameron
Brown, Rennie Colmer
Miles, Edward Harrison, P. M.
. Mixter, Francis Wilber
Buckman, Clem T., Jr.
Moore, Jonathan Larkin Forwood
Burnett, Charles Louis
Moss, Marvin Wharton
Campbell, Arthur Alan
Neil, Albert Augustus
Card, Samuel William
Niel, Harry Nash
Close, Nathaniel Mills Perry
Newman, Thomas Clinton
Crane, Austin Lincoln
Ostrander, Thara Cecil
Crane, Charles Kinball
Owen, Richard Hugh
Crosett, James Haven
Preston, Clarence William
Daniels, Harry Donaghe
Quinn, Andrew William
Davidson, Warren I.
English, Marion Columbus
Rowley, William Orion
French, William Edmond
Sellars, Alva Boyd
Gash, Charles Franklin
Vincent, Frank Dewitt
Hayes, L en Eugene
Waddell, George Edwin
Hills, Arthur Augustus
Waterman, William Fred
Hopcroft, Charles
Woolsey, Herbert Alfred .
Jones, John Edward

MEMBERS: ·

•

Azhderian, Vahan H.
Baker, John B.
Blanch'ard, Marvin C.
Boyd, Edwin E.
Brooks, Phillip W.
Ervin, Otwin R .
Furness, William H .
Griffin, James W.
Hart, Purdy
Hartshorn, Charles D., P . M.
Hobson, Roy W.
Ingram, Alexander G.
J ones, Howard T.
Kavanaugh, John

Leonard, Arthur J.
McDonald, Arch R.
Mccary, Jasp er D.
Osbun, Albert E.
Richards, W. B.
Thompson, Theodore J.
Tillotson, Clarence A.
Webster, Roger G.
White, John C.
Williams, David H.
Wimp, John Roy
Wing, F . S.
Wulf!', Leo. F.

-27

~uSTER

i30

ROSTER

MIDWAY LODGE, No. 426.

CHINO VALLEY LODGE, No. 427.

Ta.ft, Kem County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

Chino, San Bernardino County,
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

John Henry Whaley, Master,
Box 504, Taft, Cal.
Frederick Louis Seybolt, Sen. W.,
Roy Edward Ranous, Jun. Warden,
John Walter Key, Treasurer,
George Samuel Hanning, Secretary,
Box 382, Taft, Cal.

Samuel Addison White, Sen. De<Jc..
Edwatd Harold Williams, Marshal,
Sidney Ward Mims, Steward,
Carl Christian Joys, Steward,
James Columbus Grant, T-y,1ler.

Edwin Rhodes, Master,
Chino, Cal.
Gehard Mayer, Senior Warden,
Elmo Charles Daniels, Jun, Ward.,
Fred Walters, Treasurer,
Jonathan Barber Stark, Secretary,
Chino, Cal.

MEMBERS:
Bender, IIerbert Jacob
Blakley, Fred Burnell
Brookover, William
Bryson, John Lawson
Clark, Sid Balows
Crippen, Stephen Gilbert
Davis, Arthur H., P. M.
Dooley, Joseph Peter
Farrel, Edward Davis
Grant, James Columbus
Graves, John E.
Guiberson, Lorrane Parr
Guthause, Chris John
H;amilton, James Henry
Hanning, George Samuel
Howard, Will Livingston
Joys, Carl Christian
Kevan, Henry Dawson

Key, John Walter
Lucas, Arthur Vivian
Maddern, Herrold Hunt
Mays, James Par
Miller, Lee Cue
Mims, Sidney Ward
Painter, Fred Lawrence
Persons, Joel Ellis
Pinkerton, Samuel
Ramey, Thomas Clifford
Ranous, Roy Edward
Seybolt, Fred Louis
Seybolt, George Ernest
Snow, Albert Jay
Waldren, Thomas Aloyous
Whaley, John Henry
White, Samuel Addison
Williams, Edward Arnold

731

Edgar Heaton Price, Chaplain,
Hiram G. Shafer, Senior Deacon,
Edgar F. Church, Junior Deacon,
Frederick Alson White, Marshal,
William Sutherland Ross, Steward,
Harry Lee Culver, Steward,
James William Nash, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Acord, John Thomas
Brokaw, James J.
Brown, Richard Patterson
Caldwell, Gus Becton
Church, Edgar F.
Culver, Harry Lee
Coyle, William Arthur
Daniels, Elmo Charles
Dunn, John V.
Easley, Johnson Byrd
Luther, Clarence Howard
Mayer, Gerhard
McCelleher, Howard Scott
Minckwitz, Ernest Ulrich
Nash, James William

-36

Newman, Orlando Jay
Price, Edgar Heaton
Pugh, John
Reed, Elgar
Rhodes, Edwin, P. M.
Ross, William Sut herland
Shafer, Hiram G.
Stark, Harry Barber
Stark, Jonathan Barber
Vaughan, Raymond Legrand
Vreedenburg, Levi
Walters, Fred
White, Frederick Alson
Woods, Henry Da vid
Wygant, Eugene Durfee

-30

-732

~OSTEJl

SAN DIMAS LODGE, No. 428.
San Dimas, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second T~esd11oy in each month.
OFFICERS:

ROSTER

733

PITTSBURG LODGE No. 429.
Pittsburg, Contra. Costa County.
Stated Meetings last Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Francis George Wyman, Master,
William Ellsworth Spicer, Chaplain,
San Dimas, Cal.
Samuel John McDonald, Sen. De(I~.,
John Adolph Hansen, Senior Ward., Alfred Ernest Montgomer~", Jun. [).,
George Radford Weller, Jun. Ward., Orville Burditt Houston, Marshal,
William Arthur Johnstone, Treas., John Robert Harris, Steward,
George Cyril Platt, Secretary,
Walter Barton Taugeman, Stewar(/,
San Dimas, Cal.
Lamar Burgess, Tyler.

Ernest Herman Ward, Master,
Clarence Calvin Peppin, Chaplain,
Pitt!burg, Cal.
.
Johrt Lowes, Senior D~acon,
Frank Starr Gregory, Sen. Ward., Weaver McPherson Bailey, Jun. D.,
James Shirl'ey Hornsby, Jun. Ward., Otto Anthony Kresse, Marshal,
Bernard Peter Sartteri, Treasurer, Albert Hendrick Jongeneel, Steward, .
Archie Valentine Mcfaul, Secretary, John Enoch Bankson~ Steward,
'tt b
C t
George Alexander Mmaker, Tyler.
P 1 s urg, a.

MEMBERS:

MEMBERS:

Alexander, Michael
Ames, Wiltcie
Amos, William McDougal
Billemier, John Samuel
Bonter, Norman
Bowden, Jeremiah Cravens
Brown, Archibald Robert
Burgess, Lamar
Compton, Clarence Lawrence
Corwin, Clinton
Enfield, Oscar Davenport
~,airbanks, Charles Devens, P. M.
Foreman, Harry Loyd
Geiser, Raymond Arthur
Gilman, Herbert Spencer
Godfrey, George
Goodwin, Charles Boone
Hansen, John Adolph
Harris, John Robert
Hart, Elmer Woodman
Harwood, Frank Haswell
Hope, Orrie Wilson
Houston, Orville Burdette
Howard, Horace Emory

Johnstone, Donald Weldon
Johnstone, William Arthur
Koch, Louis August
Laudon, William Emerson
McDonald, Samuel John
McKinnon, Isaac August
Montgomery, Alfred Ernest
Neipp, Emil Edward
Norton, Pierce Harvey
Platt, George Cyril
Richeson, John Matthew
Rouser, John Clyde
Schemerhorn, Arthur
Smith, Clinton Carlisle
Spicer, William Ellsworth
Sutton, Walter Langley
Taugeman, Walter Barton
Teague, David Clinton
Tillman, Oliver Scott
Weller, George Radford
Wheeler, Edward Myron
Wilson, James William
Wyman, Francis George

Bailey, Weaver McPherson
Buchanan, William James
Bankson, John Enoch
Croxon, Warren George Hubbard
Dunnigan, Marcus Wesley
Gregory, Frank Starr
Hornsby, James Shirley
Hansen, Rasmus E.
Israel, David
Johnson, John Adolph
J ongeneel, Albert Hendricks
J ongeneel, William
Kent, Nelson Gilman
Kresse, Otto Anthony
Keithley, Leslie Cornelius

Lanteri, Bernard Peter
Lowes, John
Loveridge, Otis Oliver
Minaker, George Alexander
Minaker, Fred A.
McFaul, Archie Valentine, P. M.
Oliver, George Thomas
Peppin, Clarence Calvin
Rouner, Floyd Harold
Reinhart, Harry W.
Stuart, Alexander
Schmith, Rudolph Bay
Wood, Ernest Herman
Weigel, Joel

-29

734

ROSTER

ROSTER

McCLOUD LODGE, No. 430.
McCloud, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Chase Wilder, Master,
McCloud, Cal.
Frederick Byron Nichols, Sen. W,
Benj. Albert Purcell, Jun. Ward.,
Frank Winch~ster Clark, Treasurer,
George Elliott Parsons, Secretary,
McCloud, Cal.

Robert Thomas Legge, Chaplain,
Horace Albert Williams, Sen. Deac.,
John Kennedy, Junior Deacon,
Charles George Gage, Marshal,
Elliott Maynard Smith, Steward,
Elmer Ernest Hall, Steward,
Alexander Holmes, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Clark, Frank Winchester
Curless, Joseph Hamilton
Gage, Charles George
Hall, Elmer Ernest
Hancock, Charles Edwin
Holmes, Alex.
Johnson, David Alexander
Kaiser, Anselem Charles
Kennedy, John
Legge, Robert Thomas
Morrow, John James .
Nichols, Frederick Byron
Osmer, Reuben

Parsons, George Elliott
Purcell, Benjamin Albert
Purchase, George Pople
Pollman, Henry William
Pool, Zera Beebe
Runckel, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Elliott · Maynard
Spencer, Frederick Furman
Sutherland, David Lawrence
Von Gunten, Samuel Alfred
Wilder, James Chase
Williams, Horace Albert

Booth, William Chamberlain
Burley, Charles Bernard
Calfee, Ross L~is
Chandler, John S.
Fabler, William Frederick
Gardner, FrankliD; Joseph
Gibson, Charles Sherman
Glavinovich, Luke Joseph
Gregory, John Hamilton
Griffins, Benjamin Hall
Hadley, Walter Hugh
Harlow, Edw. Howe, P. M.
Hopping, Clyde Everett
Iversen, Josias
·Jennings, Elijah
Kurtz, Samuel B.
Little, Leonard
Maier, Walter Alexander
Marsten, Ivory Randolph

735

MEMBERS:
Maxfield, James Edw.
Michaels, Max
Mitchell, David Leroy
Moore, Thomas H.
Myatt, Robert
Parker, Robert Lee
Petillow, William Frederick
Poage, Albert Hamilton
Rockwood, Herbert L.
Rowland, Ira Clayton
Slattery, Richard Edmons
Smith, Ernest Nathaniel
Stiver, Hershey Annin, P. M.
Stults, Frank Peter
Thayer, Thomas,' P. M.
Tucker, Bert X.
Vestal, Hall
Whittle, John Franklin

-37

ROSEVILLE LODGE, No. 432.
Roseville, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, third Monday in each month.

-25

ALPHA LODGE, No. 431.
Richmond, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Hershey Annin Stiver, Master,
Edward Howe Harlow, Chaplain,
Richmond, Cal.
Richard Edmond Seattery, Sen. D.,
Thomas Thayer, Senior Warden,
Ernest Nathaniel Smith, Jun. Deac.,
Luke Joseph Glavinovich, Jun. W., Ross Lewis Calfee, Marshal,
Leonard Little, Treasurer,
Franklin Joseph Gardner, Steward,
Albert Hamilton Poage, Secretary, William Frederick Faber, Steward,
Richmond, Cal.
Max Michaels, Tyler.

OFFICERS:

James Scott, Master,
Albert Perry Clark, Sen. Deacon,
Roseville, Cal.
Winn Patrick Conway, Jun. Deacon
Clarence Edwin Peck, Sen. Ward., Charles Warner Cox, Marshal,
Kenneth Gordon Lister, Jun. Ward., Frank Richard Chilt9n, Steward,
Walter Gates Osborne, Treasurer,
Robert Franklin Watson, Steward,
Jeremiah Edward Stine, Secretary, William Fredericks, Tyler.
Roseville, Cal.

Alexander, Edwin Leander
Barrett, Lewis
Booth, Mylo Albert
Broyer, Alexander Henry
Clark, Albert Perry
Connelly, Chester Irwin

MEMBERS:
Conway, Winn ratrick
Cox, David Lloyd
Cox, Charles Warner
Fredericks, William
Hawkins, Archie
Hill, John Albert

ROSTER

736
Ketcham, Lucius Samuel
Lister, Kenneth Gordon
Lyons, Clarence Frothingham
Macfarlane, Ian Angus
Macpherson, George Armstrong
Madison, Frank
Oden, Thomas Knox
Osborne, Walter Gates
Peck, Clarence Edwin
Priest, Marion Warren

Schmitt, John Jacob
Scott, James, P. M.
Shearer, Jesse Herbert
Stine, Jeremiah Edward
Stone, Henry Howard
Wells, Richard Herbert
Wolf, Fred
Wood, Harry
Woodbridge, Bradford
York, Herbert Addison

ROSTER

737

'

..
MARICOPA LODGE, U. D.
Maricopa, Kern County.
Dispensations issued Rebruary 6, 1913.

-32

OFFICERS:

HA.MMONTON LODGE, U. D.
Hammonton, Yuba County.
OFFICERS:
(No Certificate. See Appendix.)

Beau, Frederic Eastman
Blake, Ernest Stanley
Dole, Alfred Rowell
Downing, Walter George
Goss, William Henry
Gross, Lee Worthington
Grover, Henry Courtland
Hoffman, Jacob Ziba
Hopfield, Archie William
McGill, James Helm, P. M.
McDonald, Davi.d Chalmers

MEMBERS:
Myers, Louis Lane
Nicolas, John Henry
Norton, Samuel Mcilvaine
Reeves, Charles Henry Edmund
Richard, Hiram Harrison
Robinson, George Alexander
Shirran, Francis Leslie
Smeder, Louis Morris
Vaucleaf, William Henry
Walk, Harding Lincoln
Welden, Augustus Lawback
-22

Charles Wesley Beatty, Master,
Maricopa, Cal.
Herbert Alan Ballagh, Sen. Ward.,
Samuel Stephen Markham, Jun. W.,
Perryman Fred'k Page, Treasurer,
Harry Wallace Kent, Secretary,
Maricopa, Cal.

David Wilson, Chaplain,
James Wallace, Senior Deacon,
Charles Zook Irvine, Jun. Deacon,
Win Godfrey, Steward,
Edwin E. Brown, Steward,
Robert Clifton Woodside, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ballagh, Herbert Alan
Beatty, Charles Wesley
Bovie, Randall Ray
Bode, Henry George
Brown, Edwin E.
Coons, William Henry
Dyson, John Alfred
Freeman, Alanson Willey
Godfrey, Win
Irvine, Charles Zook

47

Kent, Harry Wallace
Littleton, Henry
Markham, Samuel Stephen
Peters, John Richard
Price, Stephen Howard
Sharp, Isaac .Shipman
Thomas, Robert Walter
Wall~ce, James
Wilson, David
Woodside, Robert Clifton

-20

738

ROSTER

ROSTER

FAIRMOUNT LODGE, U. D.

APPENDIX.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.

731!

Stated Meetings first Tuesday in each month.
Native Sons Ha.II.

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.

Dispensations issued March 4, 1913.

Thomas Eli Winrod, Master
Robert Ballard Davy, Sen. Deacon
Nilliam Irvin Redding, Jun. Deacon
Downieville, Cal.
William Wickham Casserly, Sen. W. J ohn Woessner, Marshal
Jason Samuel Frye, Steward
Adam Kieffer, Jun. Ward.
Henry Herman Meyer, Treas.
Eliphalet Lewis Case, Steward
Henry Edwin Quigley, Secty.
George Barrows Morse, Tyler
Downieville, Cal.

OFFICERS:

James Davison Ralph, Master,
1836 Ellis Street.
John Albert Merrill, Sen. Warden,
John William Felt, Jim. Ward en,
Albert S. Evans, Treasurer,
Harry A. Macdonald, Secretary,
255 Montgomery Street.

William Henry Wobber, Chaplain,
Francis Albert Tibbitts, Sen. Deaco11,
Albert Lars Lindholm, Jun. Deacon,
Pellew Langford .Ennor, Marshal,
Bert E. Edwards, Steward,
Russell Dodge Richard, Steward,
Frank G. Watson (Presidio No.
354), Tyler.

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25.
MEMBERS:
Edwards, Burt Emmett
Ennor, Pellew Langford
Evans, Albert S.
Felt, John William
Lindholm, Albert Lars
Macdonald, Harry Alexander

Merrill, John Albert
Ralph, James Davison
Richards, Russell Dodge
Stang, Louis George
Tibbitts, Francis Albert
Wobber, William Peter

JI

Hermon Daniel Jewett, Master
Georgetown, Cal
Harry Morris Grover, S en. W ard.,
Walter Nevada Grover, Jun. Ward.,
William Simpson Hickman, Treas.,
I saac Grinnell Swift, S eely.,
Georgetown, Cal.

Robert Henry Allen, Sen. Deacon,
William Henry Bryson, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Edward Jewett, Marshal,
Charles Joseph Rupley, Steward,
Samuel Wesley Collins, Steward,
James Francis Walk, Tyler.

-12

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.
Robert Lee Carter, Master,
Henry Larkin Lowden, Sen. D.,
Weaverville, Cal.
George Frederic Gehm, Jun. Deac.,
Charles Eugene Goodyear, Sen. Ward.Jesse Francis Tourtellotte, Marshal,
William Bernard Testy, Jun. Ward., Otto Bismark Haas, Steward,
Peter Minert Paulsen, Treas.,
Davit Wash. Haa,s, Steward,
Detlef Hansen, S ecty.,
J ohn H enry Bremer, Tyler.
Weaverville, Cal.

I.

740

ROSTER

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
William G. Regan, Master
Walter Oscar Laderich, Sen. Deacon
San Juan, Cal.
Benjamin Flint, Jun. Deacon,
Irvin Webster Moore, Sen. Ward. Clarence Elbert Burnett, Marshal,
Frederick William Kemp, Jun. Ward Richard Hall Flint, Steward,
Mark Joseph Regan, Treas.
Joseph Sylvester Willcox, Steward,
Arthur Smith Moore, Secretary,
J ames Miles, Tyler.
San Juan, Cal.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56.
Elmer David Boydston, Master,
Henry W. Cook, Chaplain,
Volcano, Cal.
James Giannini, Senior Deacon,
Albert Lehn, Senior Warden,
Charles Wallenburg, Junior Deacon,
Arthur W. McLaughlin, Jmi. Ward., Louis Horton Cook, Marshal,
Otis Lincoln Webster, Treasurer,
Griffith Denend, Steward,
John Batista Grillo, Secretary,
Lee F. Payton, Steward,
Volcano, Cal.
Dominico Gianini, Tyler.

•
REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
George Albert Harkleroad, Master,
Reedley, Cal.
Frederick Davis, Senior Warden,
Everett Wilber Crosby, Jun . Ward ..
Marion Deneen, Treasurer,
Frank Studley, Secretary,
Reedley, Cal.

Charles Franklin Howell, S. Deaco11,
Thomas Caesar, Junior Deacon,
John McBriar, Marshal,
Leon ·Wilson, Steward,
Steen Hagan, Steward,
David Brdlow Harris, Tyler.

,

No.

Post Office.

County.

Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia ............. 92 Coloma ...........•.. El Dorado.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ................ Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek ....... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville .......... Alameda.
Alcatraz ......... . . 244 Oakland ...•.......•• Alameda.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ........... Los Angeles.
Alieal .............. 321 Pleasanton ...........Alameda:
Alpha ........ ..... .431 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport •......... Mono.
Alturas ............ 24!1 Alturas ..............Modoc.
Amity ......... .. .. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador ...... . ..... 65 Jackson ............. Amador.
Anaheim ... ·........ 207 Anaheim ............ Orange.
Anchor .. . ......... 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
Antioch ...... ~ .. . -. .175 Antioch . . ........... Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alameda .............Alameda.
Arcata ............. 106 Arcata .............. Humboldt.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande ... . ...San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ...... . ... 414 Los Angeles ... .. . . ... Los Angeles.
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia .............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton ....... .. ......San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davisville . .. . .. .. ... Yolo.
Azusa .. . ...... . ... 305 Azusa .... ..... ..... . Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ...........Kern.
Balder ........ ... .. 393 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Bay View ....... ~ .401 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Bear Mountain .... . 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley ......... : .363 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Bodie ............. 252 Bodie ............... Mono.
Brawley ..... . .... .402 Brawley .........••.. Imperial.
Brentwood .... . .. : . 345 Brentwood · ...........Contra Costa.
Brooklyn . .. . ...... 225 East Oakland • ; ... '. .. Alameda.
Buckeye ........... 195 Wintel'!I . .' ........... Yolo.

741

742

ALPHABgTICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Buena Park •....... 357 Buena Park .......... Orange.
Burbank .......... .406 Burbank ............ Los Angeles.
Burlingame ....... .400 Burlingame .....•.... San Mateo.
Calexico .......... .412 Calexico ..•.......... Imperial.
California . . . . . . . . • 1 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Cahveras ......... 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middletown .......... Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ............ Na pa.
Carquinez .••...••.. 337 Crockett ............ Contra Costa.
Cavite ••••.•••...•. 350 Cavite ...•.......... Philippine Island•.
Charity •.......•.. 362 Campbell ............ Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ....... 410 Berkeley ............. Alameda.
Chico •........•...• 111 Chico ............... Butte.
Chino Valley ...... 427 Chino ....... .. ...... SanBernardino.
Claiborne ......•... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Clay .........•.... 101 Dutch Flat •........• Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton ...•........ 119 Igo ................. Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ............... Fresno.
Coalinga •.......... 387 Coalinga •.........•.• Tulare.
Concord ......•.... 117 Sac.r amento : ......... Sacramento.
Confidence •..•...••• 203 Castroville •...•..... Monterey.
Consuelo .•........ 325 Escondido ....••..... San Diego.
Colusa •........... 240 Colusa ......•..•..... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville •....•..... Yuba.
Corona •...•...•... 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
.
Corregidor ...•. : • •. 386 Manila ....•••....... Philippine Islands.
Covelo ............ 231 Covelo .............. ,Mendocino.
Covina ............. 334 Covina ....•......... Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Qrescent City ...•.... Del Norte.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ....... .San Francisco.
Curtis •............ 140 Cloverdale .•.•....•.. Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ..........•. 38n Dinuba ....... . ..••• . Tulare.
Doric •· ........... 216 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey .........•... Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Drytown ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 297 Dunsmuir ..•....•.... Siskiyou.
Durant ........•... 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Eagle Rock ..... ,..... Los Angeles.
East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne ........... Tuolumne.
East Gate ...•..... 290 Los Anizeles ......... Los Angeles.
Eden .............. 113 San Leandro ...•..... Alameda.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN~A

l·
•

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Eel River ••......•.. 147 Fortuna ............. Humboldt.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ...••......• San Diego.
Elk Grove •........ 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore •.......... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Elysian ............. 418 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Euealyptus ........ 243 Haywards ........... Alameda. ·
l":ureke ............ 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
Evening Star ...•.. 186 Etna Mills •.......... Siskiyou.
Evergreen •........ 259 Ri vereide ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Franc.isco ........ San Francisco.
Exeter ............ 424 Exeter .......•....•• Tulare.
Fairmont ........ U. D. San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Fall brook ......... 317 Fall brook ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Ferndale ............ Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ......... ·.. 379 Fillmore ............• Ventura.
Forbestown •....... 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Fowler ............ 398 Fowler . ......•... ... Fresno.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ........... .Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ... San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose ........•... Santa Clara.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose ............ Santa· Clara.
Fruitvale ..•....... 336 Fruitvale ............ Alameda.
Fullerton ........... 339 Fullerton ...........• Orange.
GaU ••...•......... 267 Galt . ·............... Sacramento.
Gardena •......... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown • . . . . . . . 25 Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne.
Glendora •......... 404 Glendora .....•...... Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden State ...... 33S Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles .
Gold Hill . . . • . . . . . . 32 Lincoln .............. Placer.
Grafton •.......... 141 Grafton ...•......... Yolo.
Granite ........•.. 222 Rocklin ............. Placer.
Gravel Range •..... 59 Campton ville ........ Yuba.
Guadalupe •........ 237 Guadalupe ...•....... Santa Barbara.
Hammonton ...... U. D. Hammonton ......... Yuba.
Hanford ....••..•. 279 Hanford ••.•..••...•. Kings.
Harmony ••••...... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.

743

7H

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport .......•.... Lake.
Hawaiian . . . . . . . . . . 21 Honolulu .......•.•.•Hawaiian Island11.
Henry Clay ... .. ..• 95 Sutter Creek •• . ...... Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Francisco .••..•••San Francisco.
Hesperian ...•..... 264 Santa Maria ........•Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..•... 382 Los Angeles .........• Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman ............~Stanislaus.
Hiram ............. 43 El Dorado .....•..... El Dorado.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Hollywood ....•... 355 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Holtville .......... .425 Holtville .... ......• . Imperial.
Honolulu .......... 409 Honolulu .. . ......... Hawaii.
Hope .........•.... 234 Beckwith ..•.•••..•.. Plumas;
Hornitos . ••.. ...... 98 Hornitos ............. Mariposa.
Howard ...•....... 96 Yreka ............... Siskiyou.
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka ............• Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax •....... . ....• Placer.
Imperial ...... ..... 390 Imperial . . ...........Imperial.
Inglewood ... . . ..... 421 Inglewood . . . .. .... . . Los Angeles.
Inyo .. .. .......... 221 Independence ........Inyo.
Ione .............. 80 Ione ...........•.... Amador.
Jefferson ....... . .. 97 Laporte ..... .. ...... Plumas.
Jan es ville ........ . . 232 Janesville ......... .. Lassen.
Jewel .... . ........ 374 San Francisco ....... . San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ..... . ....... . . Santa Clara.
Kerman ... . . .. ... .. 420 Kerman ........... . . Fresno.
Keystone ... ....... 161 Milton ... .. ........ :Calaveras.
Kilauea. ........... 330 Hilo ......... . ...•.. Hawaiian Islands
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo . . . . . San Luis Obispo..·
King Solomon'" .... 260 San Francisco ·... ... .. San Francisco.
La Fayette ..... .. . 126 Sebastopol ........... Sonoma.
La Grange . . . • . . . . . 99 Merced . .. .......... . Merced.
La Mesa .. ... . ..... 407 La Mesa ............. San Diego.
Landmark ... , . .... 253 Madison ..... . ...... . Yolo.
Las Pal mas .. . . .•.. 366 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Lassen .... . .•..... 149 Susanville .......... . Lassen.
Laurel ........•... 245 Willows •.............Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara ........ .. Santa Clara.
Lindsay . ... ...... . 416 Lindsay ... . . ........ Tulare.
Live Oak .. . ...... 61 Oakland . . .......... . Alameda.
Lodi .· . . ........... 256 Lodi ......... •. ...•. San Joaquin.:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

745

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc ..........•...Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ...•..•. 327 Long Beach ......•.•.Los Angeles.
Los Angele11 • . • . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ........• Los Angeles.
Los Banos ...••.•.. 312 Los Banos ... ........ Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton , ........... Sierra.
Madera ............ 280 Madera ..............Madera.
Madison ........... 23' Grass Valley .... . .... Nevada.
Magnolia ....... ... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Manila ............ 342 Manila . . .........•.. Philippine Islands.
Maricopa .. ..... . U. D. Maricopa . . .........Kern.
Marin .. ............ 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa ......... . 24 Mariposa ....... . .... Mariposa.
Martinez ...... . ... 41 Martinez ...•........ Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ........ . .... Colusa.
McOloud .......... . 430 McCloud ............. Siskiyou.
McKinley .......... 347 Richmond .. . ........ Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino ........•. Mendocino.
Meridian ... . ...... 182 Arbuckle' ......... . .. Colusa.
Midway ...... ..... .426 Taft .. .......... ... •Kern.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ... ..... San Francisco.
Mizpah .........•.. 378 Los Angele11 ......... Los Ange1es.
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill .. . •. . Calaveras.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama ........... . . Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles .... .. ... Los Angeles.
Monrovia ........ . 308 Monrovia ........ . ... Los Angeles.
Monterey • ...... ..• 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morning Star .... .. 68 Stockton .......... .. San Joaquin.
Mosaic ......•..... 218 Livermore .•......... Alameda..
Mount Jackson ..... 2915 Guerneville ....... . .. Sonoma.
Mount Moriah .... . 44 San Francisco . .. .. .. . San Francisco.
Mountain Shade •.. 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ... ... 281 Anderson ...... . ..... Shasta.
Mountain View .. . . 194 Mountain View . ..... Santa Clara.
Natoma . ·.. ........ 64 Folsom ...... .. ...... Sacramento.
Naval .... ... ...... 87 Vallejo ....... . ·. ..... Solii.no.
Needles ...........• 326 Needles .. • ....•...•. San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City .... .. ... Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Paskenta ..... .. .....Tehama.
Nicolaus ......... . 129 Wheatland ... •. .... . .Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley ..... .... . . . . Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ........ ,Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ......•...... Shasta..

746

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Offlce.
County.
North Star •..•.•.• 91 Fort Jones •.•...••••• Siskiyou.
Norwalk .....•.... 315 Norwalk •.........•. .Los Angeles.
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale ........ . .... Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ....•.... 215 Alameda ..........•.•Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park •...... 369 Oceanpark . ........... Los Angeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu .... .. ...... Oahu:
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ......... . . San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare .............. Tulare.
Olivet .. . ........ . . 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ........... 301 0nt~.,.,o .............. San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange ....... ·....•.. Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ........ San Francis<10.
Orland ............ 265 Orland ............•. Glenn.
0rosi .............. 383 Orosi .........•..... . Tulare.
'1roville .... ." ... ·. ... 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
1
Jxnard ....•....... 341 Oxnard : . ............ Ventura.
Pacific ....... .. .. . 136 San Francisco •.•.. : .. San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ......•..Monterey.
Pajaro ............ 110 Watsonville •........ .Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra .......... 26 Placerville ...... . .... EI Dorado.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes · .... ... 389 Long Beach ......•... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .. . . 17 San Francisco ......... San Francisco.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasadena •......... 272 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Paso Robles •....... 286 Paso Robles ..........San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn .•....•..... 258 Penryn •.....•...... ,.Placer.
Pentalpha •......•• 202 Los Angeles •........ Los Angeles.
Perris ............ .411 Perris .. ... . . .. . ....• Riverside.
Petaluma •......... 180 Petaluma . . . ... . .. ... Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino . . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole .......• . .... 353 Pinole ............... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ......... .429 Pittsburg .. .' ......... Contra Costa.
Plumas • . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy .............•Plumas.
Pomona ........... 246 Pomona .....•....... Los Angeles.
Porterville •........ 303 Porterville .. . ... . ... Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San Francisco ... .. ... San Francisco.
Reading .. . ...... . . 254 Redding • ........•... Shasta.
Redlands .......... 300 Redlands ............•San Bernardino.

GRAl'ID LODUE OF CALIFOUNIA

Lodge.
No. Post Offlce.
County.
Redondo .......•... 328 Redondo ..•..•....... Los Angeles.
Redwood City •..... 168 Rt!dwood City •.••.... San Mateo.
Reedley .....••.... 304 Reedley ............. Fresno.
Richmond .•..•..•. 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista .......... 208 Rio Vista •..•..•..... Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star . . • • • . • . 83 Forest Hill ..•....... Placer.
Rose's Bar ..•••••.. 89 Smartsville .•.........Yuba.
Roseville . . ..•••... . 433 Roseville .... . . : .......Placer.
Russian River •...•. 181 Windsor ........•.... Sonoma.
Sacramento ...•.... 40 Sacramento •......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ••.... . 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's •...... 37 Yreka ........ : .....•Siskiyou.
Salinas ..•......... 204 Salinas .............. Monterey.
@an Benito ...•..... 211 Hollister ............. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura .... . •....... Ventura.
San Diego ..•...... 35 San Diego ...•. . ..... .San Diego.
San Dimas ..... ... .428 San Dimas ........... Los Angeles.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .............. Fresno.
San Bernardino •.... 348 San Bernardino . .. .. •San Bernardino.
San Fernando •...•. 343 Fernando .....•..••.• Los Angeles.
San Francisco .•... 360 San Francisco ...•.... San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ••••••..• Riverside.
San Joaquin . • . • . . . 19 Stockton ...... .. •... .San Joaquin.
S.a n Jose •....• , .•.. 10 San Jose •........ . .. Santa Clara.
San Mateo ..••••... 226 San Mateo .... . .. . . • . San Mateo.
San Miguel .... . .• 285 San Miguel •.. . ...•.. San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro •...•.... 332 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana ..•...... 241 Santa Anl\ .....••.... Orange.
Santa Barbara ..•.. 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ..•.••. 302 Kings City ......... Monterey.
Santa Monica •...•• 307 Santa Monica . .-...•.. Los Angeles.
Santa Paula • ...... 291 Santa Paula •..... • .•Ventura.
Santa Rosa ..•....• 57 Santa Rosa .......•.. Sonoma.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria ............. San Luis Obispo.
Selma ............. 277 Selma ............... Fresno.
Sequoia .....••..... 349 Oakland ........•.... Alameda.
Sierra Madre .... . .. 408 Sierra Madre ... . .. .. . Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley •...•. 184 Sierra ville .....•..... Sierra.
Silveyville . •. ...... 201 Dixon .•..........•. . Solano.
Silver Gate •.•..... 296 San Diego .....•..... San Diego.
Silver Trowel. . .... .415 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.

747

748
Lodge. ·

GRAND LODGE 01" CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

County.

Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville ...•...... Plumas.
Sisson .... . ....... . 310 Sisson ........ : . ..... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford .......... Colusa.
Solano ............ 229 Vallejo ............ . . Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg . . . . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Loe Angeles ......... .Los Angeles.
South Gate . . ...... 320 Los Angeles ...... .. •Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena ; ..... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South West ........ 283 National City ........ San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco ..... . . . San Francisco.
Stanislaus ..... .. .. 206 Modesto .......... . • . Stanislaus.
Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun .............. Solano.
Summit ........... 112 Knights Ferry ........ Stanislaus.
Sunset ......... ... . 352 Los Angeles .... . . ... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley ... . 235 Cedarville . .. ... .. .. . Modoc.
Table Mountain .. .. 124 Cherokee ........ . .. .Butte.
Tehachapi ......... 313 Tehachapi ... .. ... ... Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento ..... .. . .. Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona .............. Riverside.
Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ............. Sonoma.
Texas ...... • ...... 46 San Juan ........•.• San Benito.
Traver ............ 294 Kingsburg .........•. Fresno.
Trinity .. .......... 27 Weaverville .... ... ...Trinity.
Truckee ........... 200 Truckee ...... . ... ... Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . • . . . . . • 8 Sonora .... . ....... .. Tuolumne.
Turlock ; ....... .. .. 395 Turlock .....•....... Stanislaus.
Tuscan ............ 261 Williams ............ Colusa.
Union ... '.......... 58 Sacramento ......... . Sacramento.
Unity . . , •......... 368 Glendale ... ; . . ..... . .Los Angeles.
.University ·......... 394 Los Angeles . ... .. . .. Los Angeles.
Upland .. . . ......... 419 Upland .... ..... ..... San Bernardino.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville . ...... .. . ..Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles ....... . .,Los Angeles.
Valley ........... .. 135 Linden .......... ... . San Joaquin.
Vesper ... ....... . . 84 Red Bluff ....... . .... Tehama.
Veteran . .......... 373 Sawtelle .......... . .. Los Angeles.
Visalia . .. ...... . .. 128 Visalia ......... . .... Tulare.
Vitruvius .. ........ 145 Bloomfield .. . . . .. . ... Sonoma.
Volcano ... ....... . 56 Volcano ....... .. .... Amador.
Washington ..... ... 20 Sacramento .... . .... . Sacramento.
Waucoba .. ... .... .413 Big Pin e., .... ....... Inyo.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Welcome ...•...... 255 Lemoore . . ..... . .... Kings.
Western Star . • • • . . 2 Shasta .... . ...•..... Shasta.
West Gate .• • •..... 335 Los Angeles· ... . ....• Los Angeles.
West Lake ••••.... . 392 Los Angeles ..... .... Los Angeles.
Whittier •.•..•..... 323 Whittier .. ... . .. ..... Los Angeles.
Willits •..•••.•..... 365 Willits . . ........... . Mendocino.
Wilmington ••...... 198 Wilmington .......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ••..... 287 Bishop •............. Inyo.
Woodbridge •....... 131 Woodbridge ......... San Joaquin.
Woodland •..•...... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yerba Buena . . ... . .403 Oakland ...... .. ..... Alameda.
Yolo ••.••.•.• . .... . 81 Yolo •. ..• .. . . ... . . .. Yolo.
York •............ . 423 Watts ............... Los Angeles.
Yosemite •......... 133 Coulterville ...... ; ... Mariposa.
Yount ......•...... 12 Napa ..... . . ..... . .... Napa.
Yuba . •. ... .• ...... 39 Marysville ..... .. . ... Yuba.

749

I

Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.

Post Office.

Lodge.

751

GRA!'<D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

750

No.

Adin ..........•....••••• Adin ..............•........ 250
Alhambra ...•..•....•• .• Alhambra •.. , ....••........ 322
Alameda ••...•..•.•••.•. Oak Grove ..........•....•.. 215
''
............. .. Apollo ...................... 396
Alleghany . ..•.••. .. • .•.• Forest . . . . . . . . . • . • • . . • . . . . . 66
Alturae .....•••.•....••• Alturas .....•......• : . ..... 248
Anaheim ........ .'••••••• Anaheim ...•.....•..•. , .... 207
Anderson ...•....•••..••. Mount Shasta ............... 281
Angels Camp •.•.....•..• Bear Mountain .....•.•..... 76
Antioch •.••....• .•• ••• .• Antioch .........•....•..... 175
Arroyo Grande ..•.•••••.• Arroyo ....... , .• , .•.. , ..... 274
An burn •.....•..••....... Eureka ..................... 16
Arbuckle ..............•. Meridian ................... 182
Arcata .. : •.....•..•••..• Arcata ............•.....••. 106
Artesia . . ...••....••.•. , .Artesia ...•...•......••..... 377
Azusa .........•.••.•..•• Azusa .............•........ 305
Bakersfield .............. .Bakersfield ................. 224
Beckwith ...•.........••• Hope .......................234
Benicia •.....••..••••••••Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . 5
Berkeley •..•...••.•.•••• Durant ...........••........ 268
Berkeley •..•..•...•••••• Berkeley ..........•.•...... 363
Berkeley .......... . ..... Charter Rock ............... 410
Big Pine ..... . .......... Waucoba . . .. .. ......... . . . . 413
Biggs ............•.....• Emmanuel .................. 318
Bishop ........••.••.••.• Winnedumah ..•.•.......... 287
Bloomfield .....•..• • •.••• Vitruvius • ••....•.......... 145
Bodie . . ..•.......•.••••. .Bodie ........•......•...... 252
Brawley ........•.•.•••••Brawley .....•.......•...... 402
Brentwood ..•...•..•••..• Brentwood ....•..•.•......• 345
Bridgeport ...••..• •• .••. .Alta ..........•.......... ; .333
Buena Park •..••.••••..•. Buena Park ......•.••...... 357
Burbank ........•..•.•••. Burbank .................... 406
Burlingame •..•....... ... Burlingame ... , ........... . ,400
Calexico ................. Calexico ....... . .... . ....... 412
Calistoga ........•.•••••• Calistoga ••......•••........ 233
(]am bria .•..•.•..•••••••• San Simeon •...•..... • .....• 196

Lodge.

No.

Campbell •..•..•.•••••... Charity ••...•....•••..•.... 362
Campton ville .....•....•. Gravel Range •. , .•••..•••.. · 59
Castroville •••..•.•.•.•.•. Confidence ••..•.•.••....•••. 203
Cavite, P. I. .............. Cavite ......................350
Cedarville •••.••.•••••••• Surprise Valley ••••......... 235
Centerville •..•.•••.. .•••.AlamPda •..•...•.••...••••. 167
Cherokee .••.•..•••••...• Table Mountain •..•.....•.. 124
Chinese Camp .••......... George Washington ..•...... 62
Chico ••.•••••.••....••••.Chico ........•.•.•..•..•.•. 111
Chino ..•.... , •••.••.•••.•Chino Valley ................ 427
Cloverdale •.•••.•..••...• Curtis ...•...•••........•... 140
Clovis .•......•.......... Clovis ..............•....... 417
Coalinga .•••..•........•• Coalinga .........•••••.•... 387
Coulterville ••.••.....•••• Yosemite ................... 133
Colfax •••...••..•....••. .Illinoistown ...•.....•... ·•.. 51
Corona .••.....•......... Temescal .•.....•..••••..... 314
Courtland •...............Franklin ......•••...•.•.••. 143
Covelo •...•....... .. ..••• Covelo ...•.•..••..•..• ·•..... 231
Colusa · ..••..•....•....... Colusa ......................240
Colton .••.....•.•........ .Ashlar ....................•.306
Covina , ......•..••..•..••Covina ........•..••....•... 334
Compton •.••..••.••.•••••Anchor ..................... 273
Coloma ............. ..... <\.cacia ...................... 92
Corning ...•..••••• . , •••• Olivet .....•.......•..•.... . 364
Crescent City ••••••..••• ,Crescent .•.....•...•....... 45
Crockett .................Carquinez ...........•....... 337
D11.visville •••.••••••••••• Athens •..•.....•........... 228
Delano ••...••..•.. •••••• Delano .........•.......•... 309
Dinuba •.....•.••.•.••••• Dinuba ...........•......... 385
Dixon •.••.••..•.••.•.•••Silveyville •....••••......... 201
Downey ••••.••.•..••• , •• Downey ..........•..•...... 220
Downieville ..••.• , ...•.•• Mountain Shade .•.•••••.•.• 18
Drytown •....•.••..•.. .• .Drytown ..........•.•.••... 174
Dutch Flat • ., .•..•......• Clay .............•....... · ..101
Dunsmuir .... , ........•••Dunsmuir .................... 297
Eagle Rock •.......•...•.•Eagle Rock ................. 422
East Oakland ..•..•••••• ,Brooklyn .....•.•...••••.... 225
Elk Grove ••••.••.•.•••. ,Elk Grove •..•.••..••. ~ ••... 173
Elsinore ••.•.•....••.•••• Elsinore ....... . .......•.•.. 289
El Centro ••.•...•••.••••• El Centro •.....••••.••...... 384
El Dorado •..•.••••.••••• Hiram .... . ...•••••.•..••.. 43
El Monte •..•.•••. •••• ••• Lexington •..•...•.......... 104
Eacondide ••••..•.• , • ; ••••Consuelo •...••••.••. .•• . ... 325
Etna Mill • , .••• , •••• , •• , • Evening Star ....•......... . 18'6

752

LOCATION OF LODGES

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Eureka ..... ...........•• Humboldt . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Exeter ... .. .........•••.• Exeter ..............•. .. .. .424
Fallbrook ..........••••• .Fallbrook ......•....•.•..... 317
Fernando •....• . •..•••••• San Fernando .• , .•.••....... 343
Ferndale ......•....••••• .Ferndale ......•...•••.......193
Fillmore .........••••.••• Fillmore ..... . ...••.........379
Forbestown ... .• •...••••• Forbestown . . . . . . • • • • . . . . . . . 50
Folsom .........•.•...••• Natoma .... . ....... ........ 64
Fort Bidwell ......•..•.•• North East .. . ............ .. 266
Fort Bragg .......•.•.••• Fort Bragg ...•• ..•......... 361
Fort Jones . .....•..•.• • •• North Star . ................ 91
Forest Hill ......•...••.• Rising Star ... . . .. . .... . . ... 83
Fortuna .. ............... Eel River ........... . .. .... 147
Fowler .... ...... ........ Fowler .................... . 398
Fresno ..... . ......•.••.•.Fresno . ..........•...... ... 24 7
''
.. .. ............... LasPal~as . .. .......... . ... 366
Fruitvale .....••..•..•••• Fruitvale ...... . .•.......... 336
Fullerton ..........•••••• Fullerton ...•.•. . ••... . ... •. 339
Galt ...... .... ....••.••.•Galt ..........•.•...••••... .267
Gardena ... ....••. •.••••• Gardena ..... .•.. .... . .. ... . 372
Georgetown ......•..•••••Georgetown ...•....••..... .. 25
Gilroy .............••.••• Keith ......... •. ...••..... . 187
Glendale ....•......••.••• Unity .... .. .. .• ............ 368
Glendora .......•.......• Glendora .......•.......... .404
Grafton ..... ... •..•...•• Grafton . ...... . ....... . ... . 141
Grass Valley ...........••Madison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Greenville ... ... •..•.•.. ;sincerity .........•...... ... 132
Gridley ...•........•..••• North Butte ........... ..... 230
Guadalupe .........•.•••• Guadalupe •.. • ...•.......... 237
Guerneville . •.... ..•.••.. Mount Jackson .•...... , .... 295
Hammonton .. .. .......•• Hammonton ............... U. D.
Hanford ..... .. . .. ....•••Hanford .. . ......•.......... 279
Haywartls •. ..•. .......•• Eucalyptus . .........•.. . ... 243
Healdsburg ..... . .......• Sotoyome ......•••••.... , ....123
Hilo, H. I .•...........••. Kilauea .... , ................330
Hornitos ....... . ......•. . Hornitos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . 98
Hollister .................San Benito ............... . . 211
Hollywood ...............Hollywood .... •. .••....... .. 355
HoltTille ..... .. . ... ...... Holtville ... . ... . ...... ; .... 425
Honolulu, H. I ... ......... Hawaiian ... . .............. 21
Honolulu, H. I. ........... Oceanic . ... .. .... ... .... ... 371
Honolulu ..... .........•• Honolulu ... .... .. . . ...... . .409
Huntington Beach ......• •Huntington Beach . . •....... . 380
Huntington Park .......... Rising Light ......... ..... .. 397

Post Otftce.
Lodge.
No.
Igo ...•••••••.•..••..•••• Clinton .. . .. .......... . ..... 119
Imperial ••• , ............. Imperial .................... 390
Independence ...... . . ....111.yo . ::• . ................. ..221
Inglewood . , , .. , . , •.•..... Inglewood .........•......• .421
Ione ..••..• , .......•••.•. Ione . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Jackson • , •....•..•••.•.• Amador •.....••.•......•... 65
Janesville •••••••...•••••. Janesville .............• •. . . 232
Kerman •.•.......•.••••.• Fresno .. •........•... , ..... 420
Kingsburg , , •.•..•••• , .•. Traver ...•.•••..... •.. .... , 294
Kings City . , •••••••••••.. Santa Lucia ................ 302
Knights Perry •.••.••.•.. Summit ..•. . ••.•••..........112
Lakeport •.••• ••.•••••••• Hartley •..... ~ ••........ . .. 199
La Mesa ................ La Mesa .................... 407
Laporte ••.• • .........••. Jefferson ...•..••• . •....•.. . 97
Lemoore ................ ,Welcome ................... 255
Lincoln ••••••..•..•.••••• Gold Hill . . • . . . . • • . . . . • . . • . . 32
Linden •••••••.•..•..•... Valley ...... . •••.•.•.... : •.. 135
Lindsay ................. Lindsay ...... ... .. .. . . . .. .. 416
Livermore ..•.• ••.. . .••.. Mo1$aic .... • .. ..•....... ••.. 218
Lodi • : , •••• ..• ..••.•..••• Lodi •.. . .......•••..... . , .. 256
Lompoc •••••.•.••.•..••.• Lompoc •......•••...........262
Lower Lake ...•.•...•..• Clear Lake .•..••.•••..•..•..183
Long Beach •..•...•••.••• Long Beach •.••••••..•...... 327
''
.............. ,Palos Verdes ................ 389
Loa Anirelea ••.•.•••..•.•. Los Angeles . . • • • • . • • • . . . . . . 42
''
...... , ...... .Wilmington .. . ............. . 198
''
............. . Pentalpha ............... ... 202
''
............. . Southern California ........ . 278
''
.............. East Gate .................. 290
''
............. . Hollenbeck ................. 319
''
...... ....... . South Gate ................ . 320
''
..... ......... Vallee de France ..... : ..... .329
''
....... ...... . West Gate .................. 335
''
............. . Palestine ........ .. ......... 351
''
............. . Sunset ........ .. ........... . 352
''
.. . ........... Golden State ................ 358
•'
............. .Mizpah ................ ·... . . 378
''
. . .. ......... Highland Park .........· ..... 382
''
............. . West Lake ....... .... ...... . 392
•.. ..• ••.•.... University .... . ........ ... .. 394
"
••..... ..•.••• Moneta ..... . ......•.•..•••. 405
"
...... .. . ..... Arlington ...• ..•. .•... . .... 414
"
. ... .... . ..... Silver Trowel. .. ......... .. . 415
"
.............. Elysian ..................... 418
48

..

753

GRAND LODGE 01'" CALIFORNIA
LOCATION OF LODGES

154

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Los Banos .•••.•••••••• .• • Los Banos •..•.•.••......••. 31~
Los Gatos .••••••••••••••• Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton •..••••••••••••• .Loyalton •...•.•.••• . .•.•..• 359
Marysvflle ............... Corinthian . • .. . . • • ••. • • • . .. • 9
''
.•...........• Yuba ......•.....•.........• 39
Madison •.•••.••••••••••• Landmark •..•.•..•..•..•... 253
Manila .................. M::.nila, P. I .••.••........... 342
''
............... : •. CC?rregidor •................. 386
.Maxwell ..•..•••••••••• , .)faxwell ...•..••••••••.•.•.. 288
Madera ...• . ••..••••••••• fadera .... .• ..•••...••..•... 280
Maricopa ...•..........•. M:~ricopa .........••..•... U. D.
1
Mariposa ..... ; : ••• : ..... :Mariposa : ...• : ....... ;L. . . . 24
Martinez •..••.•••••••••• .Martinez .................... 41
McCloud .......•••...... McCloud ...•......... .. .. . .430
Merced •..• : ••••••••••••• La Grange •....••••..• : . . . • • 99
Mendocino ...•••.•.••••• .:Mendocino •..•..••.••.....•. 179
Middletown ..............Call~yomi : ................. 282
Milton .•.•••••••.••••••• .Keystone ......•....••...... 161
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley .............. . .. 356
Millville ................. Northern Light ............. 190
Mokelumne Hill ••••.••••• Mokelumne Hill .•....••.... 298
Monrovia •..••••••••••••• Monrovia .•••........•....... 308
Monterey •..•. ~ ..........Monterey .•. . ..••..•....•... 217
Mountain View ...........Mountain View .............194
Modesto .•••.••.•••.•••.• Stanislaus ............•..... 206
Murphy's .•..•• : •••..••.• Ophir· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 33
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa ..•..••••••.••••••••Yount .............••....... 12
Newman .................Hill's Ferry ................ 236
Needles ••..•.•••.•••••••• Needles .....•...•.•........ 326
'Nevada City ..•...•.•.••• Nevada ....•........•...... 13
Norwalk .•....••..•.••••• Norwalk ...•..•..•...•..... 315
Oakland ................. Live Oak .................. 61
''
................ • Oakland . ..........•...... . 188
''
................ .Brooklyn .................... 225
................. Sequoia ..................... 349
''
''
................ . Alcatraz ..... ~ .............. . 244
''
............... ..'Bay View ................. . 401
, .,
................. . Y~rba Buena ............... . 403
Oakdale ....•••..••.•.••• Oakdale ...•.••..••.••.•.... 275
'Oceanpark .. . ............. 0.c~an Park .............. . . 369
Oceanside .•.•.•••.•.•••••Oceanside .•.••....••••••... 381
Ontario ...•..•.•••••• : ••• Ontario .................... 301
. Orange ......•.••.•••••• ,Orange <hove ••••••.•••••.•.•293

<

0

(

;post Otnce.
Lodge.
N.o.
·O rland •• , •• , ••••••••••••Orl,and .•••••••••••.•• , .... , 265
Orosi ••••••••••.•••••••••Oroei •..••.•••••••••••.•.••. 383
Oroville .•••••••••••••••• Oroville ..•.•.••••..• , ••.•.• 103
Oxnard •••••••••••••• , ••• Oxnard ••.•.•.•••••• , , ••... 341
Pacific Grove •••••••••••• Pacific Grove •..••....•••... 331
·P alo Alto ••••••••••• ·. , ••• Palo Alto •....••.••.....•.. 346
Paskenta ••.•••....••.•••• Newville ....•.•••..•..•••.. 205
I'aao Roblee .............. Paso Robles ................ 286
Pasadena •.••••.••••••••• Pasadena ••.•••••.••..••... 272
Pasadena •••••••••••••••• Corona .....................324
Paskenta •...•......• : ...• Newville ....•••••.......•.. 205
Penryn •••..••.••••.•..•• Penrbyn •.••..•••..•... , ••.. 258
Perris • • • . • • • • • . ....••.•• Perris ...........•.... . •.... 411
Petaluma ................ Petaluma .................. 180
Plllole ••••.••.•..••.•••.. Pilwle .......•.•••••.••.... 353
Pittaburg ........ . ........ Pittsburg ............·..•.... 429
Pleaaanton ..•...•....•... Alisa! ...•..•.••••..•.••.•.. 321
Plil.cerville ....•••••••..•• Palmyra .........•....... . .. 26
Point Arena ••..•••.••••• Claiborne ....•••••.••••.... 185
Pemona ..................Pomona .•.....••..•...••... 246
Porterville ............... Porterville ................. 303
Q¥incy • • •.•.....••.••. .. • Plu:mas . . . . • • • . • . . . • . . • . . . . 60
:Redondo •......•..•...... Redondo .•...••.•..•..•.... 328
.Redding •....•.••.•.. ·•... Re.a.ding .................... 254
Redlands ..•..••••.•.•.•. Redlands ..•...•.••.. • .•... . . 300
Reedley .•••••.•..•.•••..•.ReeJUey ..................... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
:Red Bluff ................ Vesper ....... ·............... 84
Richmond ....... . ....•.. .Alpha... .. .. . ... . ..... . . . . . . 4;31
Richmond ........... . .•• McKinley .................. 34.7
Rio Vista .•.•...•..•.•••• Rie Vista ...••.•.........•. 208
Riverside .•••.......• . ... ,E:rrergreen .•....••.•........ 259
Rocklin •••..•..•..•.... . G.i:an.ite ..•....••....... , .. : .222
lhiseville ................ Roseville ... . ... . ..... • .. , . .43,2
St.eramento ............... Teha.ma ........• , .......... 3

''
''
''

........ ............. WashiDgton ........... , .... ao
...........:... . ,.Sacraniento .......... ,,. .. ~ -·. . 4:0
............... ... Unioo .. . ............. ,. .... ,. 58
............... Concord .............. ,. ..... ll.7

''
.Saint Helena .....•..•. ·.. Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas .•.......••..• ,.Calaveras ... . .•.••••.••.... 78
.snn Bernardino .... . . . ....P~i:lc .. ". ......... . ....... 178
''
.......•.. s.iui B0rn&r.di.Do .............. ..34:8

1SS

U>CA TION

756
P ost Omce.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OF LODGES

Lodge.

No.

San Diego ............... San Diego • •• • : : : . : ••....•.. 35
''
.............. . Silve~ Gate ................ . 296
San Dimas .. . ....... .... San Dimas .................. 428
San Francisco ••.•.•....•• California • . . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • 1
''
........... . Parfaite Union · ............. 17
''
............ Occidental ................. 22
.•..••...••• Golden Gate ••••••••.••••... 30
"
:
.•...••••.. Mount Moriah •..••.•••....• 44
"
•.. .• .•..••. Fidelity •..•..••••••.••.•... 120
"
..•.•.•..... Hermann . ...•.•••.•....•....127
"
•.• • •••..••. Pacific .............•....... 136 .
"
.....· ....... Crockett •.•• •••.•• .••••.... 139
"
•......••..• Oriental ...•...•...• .'·....... 144
"
: .....••••.. E:irnelsior ..•.....••...•.• : •. 166
"
.• ·.••.••••.. Mission ..•.••.•••••••..... . 169
"
..•...••••..
South San Francisco •..••.• . 212
"
•... ·•.....•. Doric •.....• •• •....••.. ••.. 216
"
....•... .••. Speranza Italiana •.•••.•.... 219
"
•..•..•••... King Solomon's •..• : .••.•.• . 260
"
·
••. •...... .. Starr King .•.•..•••...•..•. 344
"
.••.•••.•••. Presidio ...•....••••••.. : .. . 354
"
...•........
San Francisco •..•..•••..... 360
"
....•......• Amity ••••••.•....••.•..... 370
"
..•. . ...•• . . Jewel ....•.•••••.••..... . .. 374
"
.. ••• ..•...• Richmond ..•.••...••.....•. 375
"
............ Parnassus ..•••••.•.••••..... 388
"
....•...... .Balder .. .... ..•......... ... 393
"
''
.. ....... .. . Fairmount ............. ... U. D.
San Jacinto ..•.••••.••.•• San Jacinto ...•............ 338
San Jose ......•.••••••••• San Jose ..•.••••....••..... 10
''

.............••. . l!'riendship

................. 210

''
.............. : . . Frat_e rnity ............. ..... . 3.99
San Juan •...•••.• ; ; .•••• Texas ......•.. : ••. ; ••.....• 4.6
San Leandro •..•..••••••• Eden .. : ; ......•••••.••.•••. 113
San Luis Obispo • : • • ·••••• ,King David's ............... 209
San Mateo ............... San Mateo ............ ..... 226
San Miguel •. : • •••••••••• ~San Miguel •.....••••.•..... 285
San Pedro .. ; ; •.••... • ••• ,San Pedro •..••......••.. ... 332
San Rafael ....•••••• : • •• ,Marin • ... •. •..•..•• .... . .•. 191
Santa Ana .. :. : . •.• ; : • .' •• Santa Ana : .....•.••.... : ...241
Santa Barbara ••••••••••• Santa Barbara .·: .. ••.. .. . , .. 192
''
.... ·...... •Magnolia .... ·...... . ... ... .. 242
Sa.nta Cruz ...•.•••••••••• Santa Cruz . : . ...•....•. • ... 38

Post omc1<.

Lodge.

757
No.

Santa Clara ••••••••• ; •••• Liberty •••.••••••••••.••••• 299
Santa Maria •••••• , •••• , .He1perian .••..•.•••••.•••• . 264
Santa Monica ••••••• , , ••• Santa Monica .••••.• •. ...•..307
Santa Paula , •••••••• , .••• Santa Paula ••••••••.• ••• ...291
Santa Roe& .............. Santa Roea .................. 57
Salina1 .. , , , , , , , , , ... , , , .Salinas ... , , . , , ............. 204
Sanaer . , . , ....•........ ..Banaer ..................... .316
Sawtelle ••• , ............. Veteran ............... ..... 373
Seba1topol ••••••••• , ••••• La Fayette ..•..•.•••...•...126
Bel ma •. , , , , , , , , ....•. , •• Selma ................ . .... . 277
Sha1ta •• , • , , , •••••••• , • , • Weetern Star • . • • • • . • • • • . . .• 2
Sierra Oit;y .......... , .... Harmony .... .............. . 164
Sierra Madre ............. Sierra Madre .............. .408
Sierra ville ............... Sierra Valley ............... 184
Bl11on ••.•••••••.•••••••..Sisson ..•.•....•......•...... 310
Bmart1ville , •••••••.•••••~ose 's Bar •.•• ~ • • • • • • . • . . . . . 89
South Paaadena ...........South Pasadena •••.•. : .. •• .. 367
South San Francisco •.....• Francis Drake ••••.. .•• . . ; .. 376
Sonoma •••••••• ••. •••• .•. Temple .••.•......•........• 14
Sonora ••••• : •••• .•••. •••• Tuolumne . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . • 8
Stockton ................. San Joaquin ......•.......•. 19
''
•••••••.• •• •••••• Morning Star •...••• •..••... 68
Stony Ford .............. Snow Mountain .......... ·... 271
Bueanville •••.•.••••••••• Lassen • ..•..•••..•.........149
Butter Creek ••••••••••••• Henry Clay .•. : •••..•....... 95
Buleun ...................Suisun • • . • . . • • . . • . • . . . . . . . . 55
Taft •. , •••..••••.•••••••• Midway ... .. . .. ..•. ... .. ... 426
Tehama •••••••..•...•.•• .Molino ..•.••.. .•.... •..•... 150
Tehachapi ............... Tehachapi ......... . ....... . 313
Truckee •.•.• •.••••••.•.. Truckee .•.••....•.••. •..... 200
Tulare ••.••• ..•••• ••• ..•• Olive Branch •••.•.. .• ...... 269
Tuolumne ................East Belt ... .... ...... ..... 391
Turlock •.................Turlock • ..... .. .. • ••...... . 395
Ukiah ... • •.••.•...••..•• Al)ell ................. . . ... 146
Upland ....... .. .... . ~ ... Upland ...... ............ . U. D.
Vallejo ••.•••..•••••.•... Naval ...•..•..............• 87
''
. , , ....... . .... . . . Solano ..................... 229
Vacaville ................ Vacaville .............. • ....134
Ventura .. ............... San Buenaventura ........... 214
Visalia .•..••••.•••••••••Visalia •.•..•••••••... .' .•... 128
Volcano .....••.••.•••••• Volcano •.. ••.• .••.••..• ••.. 56
\Valnnt Creek ............ Alamo ...................... 122
Watsonville •.. ..•..•••••• Pajaro ..•..•.•...•..•...... 110

GRAN:P LODGE OF l!AL1F9RN.1A

758
Post Office.

Lodge.

LI8T . OF INRPEC'l'ORS

759

No.

Watts
' •• Y.or,k .. . .... , , ....... • • ..... 42R
. .. ............... .,
T. • .......
27
Weaverville ..•..••••.• •. nn1..., • · • · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · •. · ·:
Whe~tland ..••..•• • ... •. • .~ioQlaus . •...•... ' ......... 129
Whittier ....• , •.• , ........Whittier .•..•.•• · . • · ·• · · · · · .328
Winters
, , •• Buokeye .....................195
Willits . .. • .. • .. • .. •
Wlllits ... · · ....... · · .. · .... 365
Willows .•••.••••••••• •.•• ",.i.aurel ...••..•.••.•........ 245
Wh;.dsor ''.' '' ••• •. • •••• • Ru~~ian River .•.•......•.... 181
Williams •..•..•. •....• ·:::.Tu.sGan • · • · · • • • · · · • • · · · • • • · · 261
Wilmingto·~ •• , ' • , ••• '•
Wilmi.D.gton • .• • · • · · · • · · · · : • .198
Woodbridge ·:::::::::::::Woodbridge ................ 131
W aodland
.
• , Woodland .... • • • • · • · .. • • · .. 156
Yolo
......... ·:::·•••Yolo ................... • .... 81
Yreka.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'•• ~:••. St. John's ••.•••. ·.• • ·., • · • • · 37
• • •.•....•..••.•.••••lloward ...••..••••••.•• .• · • • 96
.
.
• .•••••••••••••..• i-0
Yuba City
..••...•••••••.•..,,
au t erpn11e

LIST OF INSPECTORS.
?\."AME

I
~

·1

(

Dletrlct

'l'owu

Trustom R. Din1more. , • , , , .. , •• lit ...... ... .. EuNka.
. Roy Moore,, ••• , •...••••• ,.,, •. 2nd ..••..•••• Men<locino.
Louis P. Anker .................. Bra ........•. Ukiah·.
Charl01 W, Nutting .•• , ••. ,, .•.. 4th ..•..•.... Etna Mills.
Gu1tav A. Hutaff,.,,,,,, .... , .5th ... . .•.... Dunilmuil'.
Henrr 3 . Hill •••••••••• • •••••••6th .••••••••. Re~ng.
Ernest O. Bonner .•••.•.......•• 7th .......... Altuflls.
Samuel M. Chaney ••.•.•.•.••.•• 8th .. ........ Willows.
Samuel II. Crow .............•• , llth .......... Jane11ville.
Jamo1 0. Moncur .... , .........• J.Oth -. . .......Quincy.
Gilbert May ................... 11th ......... La l'orte.
mtphalet J,. Cue ..•..... .. ...•. 12th . ....... . Downieville.
Harvey .If. Boone ..•...•.•...... 13th ......... Bodie.
Frollerlck L. Arbogast .•...•.. -. .14th ..•...... Nevada City.
M. David Lininger ..•.•.••• •4••• ,15th ...•....• AubUrn.
Herbert J. Graham ............ ,16th ... . ..... Oroville.
],oui1 B. Wlleoxon .............. 17th .•.•.•... Marysville.
George H. Simmons, ...•...•..•• 18th ........• Willianl.8.
Morton L. Sayre ....•..•....••. lllth ......... Lakeport.
l~li Buah , ..... , ............... 20th ......... H:e11ldebul'g.
Charles E. Trower .............. 21st .......... Napa.
J, Frank M:orgsn .........•..•. 22nd •.•••••.• Sacramento.
Haye• H . Gable ............. : .... 23rd ..• ... .. ,Woodland.
Louis A. Reeg .••.....•..••.•••. 24th .•.......Placerville.
•Tamea E . Dye .................. 25th ......... Jackson.
Fredel'ick W. Clough .•...•..•••. 26th ..•.....• Angel's Camp.
Edward O. Stewart .•••••••• , •• ,27th •..•..... Soockton.
Louis N. Buttner ............... 28th .....•... Martinez.
Sterling P. Dobbins .......•.... 29th ........ ..Vacaville.
Edmund D. Thomas .........•..• 30th ......... Oakland.
A. Bradford Webster ..•.....••.. 31st .......... Berkeley.
Granville D. Warren ............ 32nd ......... Oakland.
Richard S. Allen .... , ...•.....• 33rd ......... San Francisco.
Douglass B. Crane ..............34th .•..•.... San Francisco.
William A. Sherman ............ ,35th ......... San Franciseo.
Roderick G. Guyett •.• , ••.••••••36th .•..• , ... San Francisco.
George F. Rodden ....•..•.. , •.•• 37th .••••..•. San Rafael.

760

LIST OF I:'\SPECTORS

NAME
District
Town
Charles G. Landscheit ..••.•••••• 38th ......... Redwood City.
John P. Jarman . . . .. . . ...... . . . 39th ......... San Jose.
Charles K. Tuttle ...•...•..•... . 40th ..•...... Pacific Grove.
L. A. C. H . Kylberg ......... . ... 41st . .....•.. • Merced.
Joseph E. Place .. . ..•.••...•. ;.42nd ....•... . Los Banos.
Leicester C. Hall ....••.••••••••43rd .••.....• Bishop.
James <.:. Pottle .. . . . ......• • ••• 44th •.......• Fresno.
John L. Mitchell .....• . .•... • ...45th •.• . .. . .. Selma.
Obed W. Carr . ..... . .......•... 46th ._..•..... Porterville
Wilfred H. Boyce .. . ........... 47th ..• . .... . Coalinga.
Arthur S. Crites .. . . . .. • .•..••.. 48th .•••.... . Bakersfield.
Myron H. Brooke .......•..•.•... 49th ......... Paso Robles.
Albert A. Dudley .••••••••••••••50th . . •...... Santa Maria.
David J. Reese . ............ • ... 51st .. . . . ..... Ventura.
John H. Bean . ...... • ....•...•• 52nd .•.••... . Los Angeles.
Samuel E. Burke ..... . ..•.•..• 53rd ...... . .. Los Angeles.
Winfred J. Sanborn . .. . . . . . .. . . 54th . ....... . Los Angeles.
Edward B. Spencer . ..... . .. . ..• 55th . . . . . .... Los Angeles.
Robie E . Dill ........... . ...... 56th ......... Los .Angeles.
Lemuel L. Test .•..........•.•.• 57th ..•..... . Pasadena.
Wm. A. Vande·g rift . .•.•.••••...58th . • ..••.•. Pomona.
Percy L. Nash ..........•....•.• 59th .....•... Covina.
Albert P. Henry . . ........•.... 60th ..•....•• Downey.
Clark H. Shaw .. ....•... . •.••.. 61et . . •.... . .. Long Beach·.
Eli B. Trago ...............• . •••. 62nd .....•... Santa Ana.
Thomas C. Browning ... . . .. ..... 63rd ....•.... Colton.
Henry D. French . . .. . ..... .. ... 64th .•....... Riverside.
John B. Osborn .. • . . . . . • ..•...• 65th •. .•. • .. • . San Diego:
Clarence J. Park. _••.•••• • •••••• 66th .. . ...... • Brawley.
.JoRhua D. Tucker .••.••••••••••• 67th .. . •• . •..• .Honolulu, H. T.
Orel M. Goldaracena .••.•••.•.•• Special •.•.... San Franci~co.
Louis Muller ... . .. .• .. ••• ...••. Special ...... . San Francisco.
Giovanni Scalmanini. . • . • • .... • •Special •... . .. San - Francisco.
D1tniel Cave . . . . • ........• . ... . .• Speeiel .... • .• Lo" Angeles.

