ROBERT A . CRIGLER
Grand Master October 18, 1968-0ctober 17. 1969
Robert Arthur Crigler (Bob). the 103rd Grand Master to serve as
Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii, has laid down a
path during his years of service and. particularly. during his year as
Grand Master, which future Grand Masters may well emulate.
Bob was born in Denver, Colorado. the son of Robert 0. Crigler and
Mary Frances Crigler. The Criglers moved to the Los Angeles area
and Bob attended Huntington Park High School. graduating in the
class of 1933, Los Angeles City College and U.C.L.A. He is also a
graduate of the Los Angeles Stock Exchange Institute.
Our Grand Master's business career has been both varied and successful. Starting as a stock and bond trader in 1938, the war in 1942
interrupted, and through 1943 he served as Technical Representative,
U.S. Air Force, in the African war theatre. Returning to civilian life.
Bob spent two years with Hydraulic Engineering Company as General
Manager before establishing his own business in Insurance and Industrial Land Development. His keen business sense and awareness of
value, as well as a talent for organization, brought an increasing flow
of clients. both local and Eastern who have relied on his judgment in
the purchase of land and the development of buildings in the expanding
industrial complex which is the West Coast.
The young stock broker of 1938 found time for romance as well and
on August 5. 1939. Dena Davis became his bride. Two children. Robert
A . Crigler, Jr., now a member of Redondo Lodge No. 328. and Karen
Cristine, now a stewardess with Continental Airlines, together with
granddaughter, Denettee Crigler, and Bob's mother complete the immediate family. As would be expected of such an ardent Mason. the
family has been religiously active as well. Bob and Dena are longtime
members of Plymouth Congregational Church where Bob has s erved
as Lay Leader, Moderator and President of the Board of Trustees.

ROBERT A . CRIGLER
Grand Master
O ctober 18. 1968-0ctober l 7, 1969

Robert 0. Crigler was made a Mason in Angeles Mesa Lodge No.
625 in 1942 and it was quite natural that Bob should follow in his
father's footsteps. Upon the acceptance of his application and election
to receive the degrees of Freemansonry, our Grand Master was raised
in John Marshall Lodge No. 636 on March 12, 1945, rising through
advancing offices to serve as its Worshipful Master in 1953 and there-

after as Officers Coach from 1954. He was appointed a member of the
Columbia Temple Committe e in 1960. and, as Inspector of District No.
522 in 1961. In 1963, to fill the vacancy crea ted by the death of Assistant Grand Lecturer Ralph W . Collins, the then Grand Master Ira W.
Coburn wisely chose this devoted Brother. The s trong ties of respect
and brotherly love forged during the past years were evidenced in the
loyalty and leadership which Bob gave to the Fifth Division and recognition of his service spreading beyond that area led the representa tives
assembled at the 1966 Communi cation to elect him to the office of
Junior Grand Warden.
Other Masonic affiliations have added to Brother Crigler's understanding of the wider responsibilities of his office. He is a member of
Signet Chapter No. 57 Royal Arch Masons, and Command ery No. 9,
Knights Templar. A member of and Past Wise M aster of Los Angeles
Scottish Rite Bodies. he was decorated with the rank of K.C.C.H. He
is a member of St. Gabriel Conclave, Red Cross of Constanti ne. He
was honored by the Award of Legion of Honor by the Order of De
Malay. He has served the Grand Lodge of India as its Official Representative near the Grand Lodge of California .
Civically, our Grand Master has been recognized by the John F .
Kennedy Award for outstandin g and long-term service as Chairman
of the Beverly Hills Draft Board and by the Gold Salute Award of the
Los Angeles Junior Chamber of Commerce.
This has been a year marked by turmoil and dissent on our campuses and by a seemingly growing inclination on the part of public and
private officials to shun responsibility. Robert A. Crigler has exhibited
the leadership and courage not only to speak to the issues, but, by his
actions. to demand of himself and others the standards of conduct and
selfless devotion to the duties of a Master Mason learned at the altar of
Masonry. This will, in the results of this year, establish a high mark for
future Grand Masters to emulate as their goal.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

I, EoWARD H. SrnMs, Grand Secretary of the M:.W:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California , do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedin gs of that body at its one hundred twentieth
Annual Communic ation, commenced at the city of San Francisco , on
Monday. the 13th day of October, A. L. 5969, and terminated on Friday,
the 17th day of October, A. L. 5969.

I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M: .W:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California, at the office of the Grand Secretary, this fourth day of November, in the year of Light, flve
thousand nine hundred and sixtynine.

Grand Secretary

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS

of

THE M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
of

1J1r.e.e auh l\rr.ept.eh ilasnus
OP TH.E
STATE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS
I 20TH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HELD AT THE
'CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13. A.D. 1969, A.L. 5969
AND TERMINATING ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 17, A.D. 1969. A.L. 5969
Copyright C 1969 hr Grand J.odse F. a: A. M. of Californja
Printed in the Unircd StateS of America. All rights io rhis book are reserved.
No part thereof may be reproduced in any manner wha010CTer without Tfritteo
permission from. the Grand Lodge of California, ezcept that quotations mar
be embodied io rninn by such other Grand Jurisdictions u have bmi
recoaajzcd olliclally by this Grand J.odse. For i11.formatio11 address Grand
Sccretary, 1111 California Suecr, San Francisco, California 94108.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

3

ONE HUNDRED TWENTIETH
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most W orshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred T w entieth
Annual Communication in the California Masonic Memorial Temple
on October 13. A.L. 5969, at 10:00 A.M. Grand Lodge w as raised by
Worshipful Lee J. Gessner, M aster of John Mars hall Lodge No. 636,
with a gavel presented to the Grand M aster by Redondo Lodge No. 328
on the occasion of the conferral o f the T hird Degree of Masonry on
Robert Arthur Crigler, Jr., son of the Grand Master.
Roll call d isclosed the presence of the following:
ELE CTED OFFICERS

M.· .W . ' . ROBERT A. CRIGLER. ..... ........... .. ....... ... . ...........•..... .Grand M aster
R.'.W. -.CHESTER R. MACPHEE..... ........... .. . ....Deputy Grand Master
R.· .w. · .HERBERT A. HuEBNER..... . ............ .. ..... ...Senior Grand Warden
R.'.W.'.LESTER S . McELWAIN ...... . ........ . ... .... .. Junior Grand Warden
v.·.w. · .PAUL A. PPLUEGER•.......... ... ....... ... ...... .. ........ ..Grand Treasurer
v.·.w.·.Eow A RD H. SIEMS ••. ...... ...... . .. . ... .. . ........ ... ... . .. Grand Seaetary
V.'.W.' .HAROLD N. RICHARDS .. . .... ... .. ........ . ....... ... ..... . .Grand Lecturer
APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
v. · .R.' .KEN N ETH A . CARLSON .. . ... .. . ............... .. .... . . ....... Grand Chaplain
W . ·.BERT RAM C. voNKONSK Y. .......... ..... .... Assistant Grand Lecturer
w.· . FRAN K P . LEMEN .. .•........ .... . ...... ... ..... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'. ULYSSES G. PATROPULOS . . .............. .....Assistant Grand Lecturer
W .'.WALLACE H. FISKE.... ......... . .. ... ...... .....Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . ·.BURTON MEYER, JR•... ..... .. ... . . . .. .......... Assistant Grand Lecturer
w. · .WILLIAM H . PRICE ... .... ... . ... . .. . ... ........ ...Assi.stant Grand Lectmer
W. ·.WI LLIAM
WILLIAMS.. ....... . .. .. . ......... . .......... ....... .. Grand Orator
w.· .ARTHUR LINSK........... .. ......... . . ........... Assistant Grand Treasurer

J.

W. · .VERN E W. HENDRI X . ....... ..... ........... .. Assistant G rand S ecretary
W. ' .HERM AN J. GELLER......... .. ....... ........ ................•..... Grand M arshal
w.· .CHARL ES K. 0YAGI... . ..... .... .. . ... .. . ............ Grand Standard Bearer
W. ·.JA MES 0 . FoURR...•.. .. .. .... . .. . .... .. .. . ............ .. .Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·.GLENN H. HARMAN . . ......... .. ........ .... ............... Grand Bible Bearer
W . ·.CLIFFORD L. DuNCAN . . ...... .. ................ ........Senior Grand Deacon
W.' . CHARLES A . LEWIS•..... ... ... .... ........ ..... ........ ./unior Grand Deacon
w. · .DALLAS v . Roos E .. ... ............................. ... .Senior Grand Ste ward
W. ·.JOH N R. W1SE....•.•.... ................................ .funior Grand S teward
W. ·.SIMON F. BOLGER.... . .. ............ ...... ..................... Grand Pursuivant
w.· .HAROLD MuELLER. ..... ...... ... . . .. .................... ... ...... Grand Organist
W. ·.BURTON 0. YouNG ... ..... ........ . ....... ..... ....... . ................• Grand Tiler

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

Lodges Nos. 23, 196, 198, 201 , 245, 315, 361, 369, 380, 409, 415,
442 . 443, 546, 566, 626, 633, 636, 710, 793, 800 and 806.
Districts Nos.107, 108, 11 8, 160, 161, 500, 508 and 518.
Division VI Inspectors.
East Bay Masters and Wardens A ssociation.
San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
The Westerners' Masonic Club.
San Gabriel Board of Relief.

PAST GRAND MASTERS
M.'.W.'.EDW!\RD H. SIEMS
M.".W.'.ELLSWORTH MEYER

M:.w:.L. HARow ANDERsoN
M.'.W.'.LEo E. ANDERSON
M:.w:.PHILN. MYERs
M:.w:.Guy B. MizE

M.' .W.".IRA w. COBURN
M.
. . w.
. . E LMER w . H EALD
M:.w:.TttEoDoRE MERIAM
M.".W.'.MYRON E. SMITH
M:.w:.LAuRENcE E. DAYTON
M:.w:.EuGENE
HoPP

s.

PAST SENIOR GRAND WARDEN
R:.w:.JottN F. PoRTER
PAST GRAND LECTURERS
v:.w:.ELBERTW. DAvis
v.·.w:.DoNAw G. CAMPBELL

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was opened in ample form,
following which the Flag of our Country was received.
There were 1482 officers and representatives from 704 chartered
Lodges and one Lodge under dispensation, 1191 Past Masters and 22
disti?gu~shed guests from other jurisdictions present during this Communication.

APPOINTMENTS
The Deputy Grand Master announced the appointment of Henry D.
Oliphant, David H. Terry and John W. Swank as members of the Committee on Distribution.

Durin~ the Communication the Grand Master announced the temporary appomtment of William H. Price, Assistant Grand Lecturer, to
serv~ as Grand Chaplain at the Thursday afternoon and Friday morning
sessions.

TELEGRAMS
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send appropriate telegrams to each of the absent Past Grand Masters.
During the session the Grand Secretary read congratulatory messages received from other Grand Jurisdictions and concordant groups.

GAVELS
The following Lodges, Districts, Division, Associations, Club and
Board of Relief presented gavels to the Grand Master which were used
during the Communication:

5

MEMORIAL SERVICE
DEVOTIONAL AND NECROLOGY
"A Mighty Fortress Is Our God" ........ Harold Mueller, Grand Organis t
Invocation and DevotionaL .... Dr. Kenneth A. Carlson, Grand Chaplain
"Oh God Our H elp in Ages Past" .................................... Grand Organist
Report of Committee on Necrology ....................Edward A. Underwood
Eulogies :
Irvin Shulkin ........................................................ Donald G . Campbell
Frank W. Raddatz............................................................ Guy B. Mize
Arthur P aulsen ...................................................... L. Harold Anderson
Edgar V. Stewart... ............................................... ......Ellsworth Mey er
Benediction ........................................................................ Grand Chaplain
Taps ··--····-·····················--·······················-........................... Grand Organist
In vocation-Devotional
Most Worshipful <}rand Ma ster and M embers of Grand Lodge:
It has been a great honor for me to serve as G rand Chaplain of the
Grand Lodge this past year, and I am very deeply grateful to the Most
Worshipful Grand Master, Robert Crigler, for affording me this oppor~
tunity. When I stand before such a dis tinguished audience as this one I
feel somewhat like the little boy who was left in charge of a drug store
one noon, while the proprietor went to lunch. The telephone rang and a
fellow in a rather gruff voice asked, "Do you have any penicillin , sulfa~
thiazole, and aureomycin?" There was a long pause and the youngster
replied, "Sir, when I tole you hello, I tole you all I know."
It is always a dangerous thing to quote a te xt for an occasion like
this because it is the signal for you to go to sleep. Someone says that if
you take all of the people who go to sleep in church and lay them end
to end, they would be more comfortable. And I think there is something
to that. At any rate, you would be amazed at how many "nodding acquaintances" I meet on Sunday mornings by quoting te xts. But there
is a great word in the book of Deuteronomy ( 6: 10-12). It comes out of
that moment when the Israelites were about to set foot in the so~called
Promised Land after the many years in the wilderness. And the people
are reminded by the good Lord that now they are to come into possession

6

PROCE EDING S OP THE

of privileges they have not know n befor e. Here they
are about to inheri t
" ... houses full of good things which thou filledst not.
and wells digge d
which thou digge dst not, viney ards and olive trees, which
thou plante dst
not; when thou shalt have eaten and be full then bewa
re lest thou forge t
the Lord. " So here were people who were to be
privil ged to live in
house s which they themselves had not built, drink from
wells they themselves had not dug. and eat from viney ards they had
not plante d. And
the ~ood Lord was remindin!'.} them that when they came
into posse ssion
of all of these things they shoul d bewa re lest they forget
their herita ge
or their God. We too, all of our lives. have been honor
ed to drink from
wells that we have not dug. We are the inheri tors of
the benefits of the
past.
I used to spend my summ ers down on my uncle 's farm
in Minn esota .
and there was alway s somet hing about the Unite d
States , even as a
young ster. 8 or 9 years of age. that fascin ated me.
I determ ined that
somed ay I was going to live on this side of the borde
r.
My most wond erful memory assoc iation s go back to
that old farm.
I'll never forget the day I went horse back riding. I
got on the horse 's
back and ten secon ds later I was down on the groun
d and I turne d to
my uncle and said, "Man , that horse sure bucke d, didn't
he?" He said.
" He didn't buck. he cough ed." Yes. my most wond
erful memory associations go back to those days.
And then I will never forge t when I was seven teen
years of age
and my father came home one night and annou nced
we were moving
to Minne apolis . And 1 can still see myself, young
as I was, stand ing
there in the office of the Amer ican Immi gratio n in
Winn ipeg and the
officer turned to me and said, "You have a choice
of your citizenship.
Do you prefe r to be a Cana dian citizen or an Amer ican
citizen?" There
was a moment of conflict becau se of my appre ciatio n
of my herita ge in
Canad a. But I remem ber how I straig htene d my shoul
ders and I looked
the officer squar e in the eye and said, "Sir, I am an Amer
ican." And from
that day to this, I have worn my citizenship, as have
you, with a great
degre e of pride.
Dr. Helfo rd Luccock one said, "We shoul d envision ourse
lves seated
in the office of an attorn ey who is beque athing to use
the benefits of the
yester days. "
From the Pilgri ms we inheri ted our great love of life,
our know ledge
of religion. From the Revol utiona ries came the Decla
ration of Independe nce, the Const itutio n of the Unite d States , the
Republic of the
Unite d States . From the pione ers who forge d out of the
weste rn count ry
our great cities, we have inheri ted our remar kable urban
center s. For
it is said that out of John C. Frem ont's campfires have
come the cities
of West ern Amer ica and here we are this morni ng
on the thresh old of
some of the greate st days we have ever know n in the histor
y of the world.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

7

Ninet y perce nt of all the scient ists who ever live~ are
alive ~his morni ng.
My. the chang es we have witne ssed and exper ienced
. It 1s almos t unbelievable.
A friend of mine left Toky o on Decem ber the 24th,
crosse d the
Intern ational Datel ine. arrive d in Seattl e on Decem ber
the 24th, staye d
over for seven hours . went on to Anch orage . Alask a,
arrive d in Anch orage on Decem ber the 24th. He thoug ht he never
was going to see
Decem ber the 25th. He lived for 43 hours in Decem
ber 24th becau se of
the transi tion and speed of our time.
Two women were gettin g into a plane out at Intern
ationa l and on~
said to the pilot, "Plea se don't travel faster than sound
, we want to talk.
And so we live in a fast moving, chang ing world .
And now in our comp uteriz ed gener ation, they have
a new computer. It is design ed to spy on other comp uters. It's called
a "Uni6 nk."
Or, look at these comb inatio n glasse s and hearin g aids.
Some of my
people wear them on Sund ay mornings. ~hey're
wond erful. Whe~
they get tired of listening to me they take their glasse
s off and they can t
see me either.
I would like to share with you for a few mome nts
in this kind of
society. what Amer ica really means to me.
For all my life I have been privileged to drink from wells
that I ha~e
not dug as a citizen , as a Maso n. And the flrst thing
I want to say is
that I am gratef ul. for all of my life I have been privil
eged to drink from
the well of the g reat glory of our people. Now that
sound s rather trite.
And yet I think perha ps it needs to be said for we .are
~iving in a gener~­
tion that tends to. depre ciate man and our questi on
1s wheth er man is
little highe r than the devils or wheth er he is really little
lower than the
angel s.
.
.
You remember the little boy who asked his mothe r if .
it was true he
came from a monk ey and she said , " I don't know ,
son, I never knew
your father 's family very well.' ' And we' d so much
rather talk about
man as being gener ated from a monk ey than we would
as the son of G od.
And yet there is a glory about us. When you have talked
about our
cheap ness and our vulga rity and you'v e depre ciated
us-a nd man can
sink excee dingly low- there is still somet hing about
man that marks
him with splend or.
I was coming up to San Franc isco, not too long ago,
to sp_eak bef?r e
a conve ntion. Thos e were the days when the Lark
was still runni ng
betwe en Los Ange les and San Franc isco and we pulled
into P~lo Alto
early in the morning. It had been rainin g and there
was a big mud~
puddl e along side the statio n platfo rm. and as I looked
out the pullman
windo w. I was rather surpri sed becau se there in the
mudp uddle ~ could
see a rainbo w. You could n't see it above the train
b ut there is was.
I said, "Man is like that." So often you look at man and
you see nothin g
more than mud and the mudp uddle but, oh. if you look
long enoug h and

8

PROCEED INGS OF THE

deep enough, you find there, interwov en in the human heart, some rainbows. For the great genius of America is that it has given to ordinary
men the capacity to become extraord inary citizens. And plain, ordinary ,
everyday individua ls can stand for great things and great ideas.
I think one of the most unusual stories in America n history has to do
with t~o little boys who decided at twelve and thirteen years of age that
America had no future and they were going to Europe to make a living
and build a life. They started down through the midwest with little packs
on their backs. They arrived in New Orleans on the 13th of the month,
expectin g to take a ship at one o'clock in the morning to go to Europe.
The Captain didn't know they were coming. the ship was loaded at
twelve thirty and, as the boys arrived on the dock, they saw the lights
of the boat taking off down the Mississip pi for the Gulf.
They sat there on the dock in utter disillusio nment and despair and
a few moments later a crusty old sailor happene d to come along and he
saw the two lads sitting there. dejected, disillusioned. youngste rs. He
engaged them in conversa tion, learned of the difficulty and he began
to sell them on the dream- a dream of the America that was yet to be.
and the boys decided they would give it a whirl. And they came back
home and today you remembe r these two boys in America n history. The
two boys who were going to Europe because America had no future.
and we honor them as great citizens, were Mark Twain and Thomas
Edison. Had it not been for the dream in the soul of a crusty old sailor
on the boardwa lk in New Orleans on the 13th of the month. America
would have lost two of its greatest potential citizens. Oh. you never
know what is going to happen in the mind or the soul of a boy or a girl
when you put there a dream.
Charles Brookfield had the unusual experien ce of getting up one
morning and reading his obituary in the newspap er. I get up every morning and check the obituary column and if my name isn't there. I get up.
But he had the experien ce of seeing his there. And he was rather surprised at what they said about him. One line caught his mind because it
read, ''Charles Brookfield, never a great actor. was invaluab le in small
parts." I like that. Never a great actor, he was invaluab le in small parts.
Oh. we can't all be a presiden t of the United States or a governor of the
state or the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge but every man can be
invaluab le in the part that he plays in the life of our Fraternit y and the
responsib ility that is his. For it is your loyalty and my loyalty to those
everyday responsibilities that comman d us and demand us that weave
the strange fab ric of this intangibl e somethin g we call democra cy and
our way of life. "For there is a spark in the souls of little people that
bursts into flame." John Steinbec k said that in "The Moon is down."
" There is a spark in the souls of little people that bursts into flame."
Now Secondly , all of my life I have been privilege d to drink from
the great well of liberty •.• freedom . This is in our great heritage of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

9

Masonry. We stress this in our Constitu tion Day observan ces, for the
very heart and the very core of our fraternit y and our way of life .is our
belief in the dignity of man and his right to be free. Pericles said one
time that freedom is the sole possessio n of those who have the courage
to defend it. Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes suggeste d that in a democracy even a donkey has the right to bray. The problem today is we
have so many 'donkeys ' braying it is difficult to keep a sense of balance.
For there are multitud es of people who are crying for freedom of speech.
They want to be heard but they have not learned ho:". t.o listen. ~nd
one must always put alongsid e of freedom .. . respons1brl1ty ... for 1f a
country gives to one the right to speak, then it likewise imposes upon
him the obligatio n to listen to what other men are saying.
I said to myself one day, "Well. Kenny Carlson. you talk a great
deal about liberty, freedom. What do you really mean by it? Supposi~g
you were to take a piece of paper at this moment and you were to write
down what freedom really means to you. What would you say?" I
began to think about it and I said, "Freedom is the right to live. unmoles ted in your home. Freedom is the privilege of coming a nd gomg as you
please. I n the law court it is justice. In the home it i~ love. In the school
it is the right to choose the direction in which your mmd and yo~ r education will go. In the commun ity it is the high honor of selectmg t~o~e
organiza tions to which you will give your loyalty .. In the ~ountry •t. ts
the right to say to a candidat e for political office, I may d1sagr~e with
everythin g you say but I would give my life to defend your right to
say it.'"
But we don' t s.ay that very much any more. We would rath er shoot
our opponen ts.
I was asked not too long ago. in a televis ion interview . whether I
thought there was more juvenile delinque ncy today than there was w?en
I was a boy. I'm not sure that there is, in relation to the total populatio n,
but I think the characte r of crime has changed .
Growing up there in midwest ern Canada, I certainly wasn't a.ny
angel as a youngste r and neither were you, although we would h~e
everybod y to think we were. I can remembe r we ?ad an old grouch 1.n
our neighbor hood. N o neighbor hood is complete without a grouch. This
fella' was really somethin g. He was so mean that when he walked down
the street even the sewers backed up! And I remembe r he planted a field
of carrots and never did know why the carrots didn't come up that
summer. We kids were in there every night at nine o'clock and we ate
them. But we didn't murder people. We didn't destroy schools. We
didn't do as a boy in London did-pok e out the left eye of eleven horses
just for fun. We didn't do as three teenager s did in Los Angeles a few
weeks ago--be at up an old gentlema n seventy-five years of age and almost left him for dead. The only reason offered, "We did it for fun-it
was kicks." No. the characte r of crime has changed . Somehow we have

10

PROCEED INGS OP THE

lost out of America n life that fine line between that which is tolerable and
that which is intolerab le, if a democra cy is to survive. And the fundamental question that faces us as a nation today is: how many people
can you corrupt in a democra cy and still retain that democra cy?"
Still we are the inheritor s of freedom. We give to our young people
a great heritage of this freedom.
It was in 1764 that Christop her Gasden wrote to the agent of the
colony of South Carolina over London and said, "There ought to
be no 'New England er,' no 'New Yorker,' but all of us America ns."
And you remembe r that dramatic moment when Patrick Henry stood
there before the Continen tal Congres s and cried in 1774, "Where are
your boundari es of colonies. I am not a Virginia n. I am an America n."
It brought the Assembl y to its feet, and there began to develop a deeper
sensitivi ty to the meaning of freedom, the freedom that is ours as Americans, and as Masons. Always. we must place alongsid e freedom •. .
responsibility.
The third well from which I have been privileged to drink all of my
life is the well of our flag. Now I am running the danger here of sounding
a little corny, because for some strange reason today. it does not seem
to be too popular to talk about our flag . or pay allegianc e to it. And yet
I must say to you that I remembe r those early days when we used to
cross the internati onal border there at Noyes, Minneso ta, and there
would be the Union Jack on one side, and Old Glory on the other. I
used to thrill to the Union Jack. a tremendo us flag , but there was always
somethin g about the flag of the United States that excited me. And one
of the great moments for me in a Lodge meeting, and a great moment
this morning was this one when the flag was brought in and paused
before the altar. F or at the very core of Masonry is our belief in God
and loyalty to our country. And I must say to you that wheneve r I stand
and sing the Star Spangled Banner or pledge allegiance to the flag of
the United States of America , I feel a tingle from my heels to the top
of my head. For there's a magnificence to our flag, not simply because
of what it is but because of what it represen ts and what it means. Yet
there are places in America this morning alongsid e which it is a travesty
upon the flag to have it stand beside the platform s of hate. You see so
much disrespec t shown the flag. It distresse s me when I see a tattered
flag flying on a car radio aerial. I went into our voting place last June
and both flags were hung backwar ds. And certainly the ultimate in
disrespec t is to burn the flag as a means of protest. This is not a mark
of bravado. This is a revelatio n of a complete lack of understa nding of
what the flag means to us and our great heritage as America ns.
Every nation has had its flag . If you go back into the Old Testame nt
and the Book of Numbers , you read how the children of Israel were
directed to pitch their tents and place alongsid e, each man beside his
own tent, his standard .•. his flag.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

11

The first flag that the Romans had was a hand full of hay extended
Then they adopted the symbol of the bear, then the wolf and
ultimately the Roman eagle. And, oh , you go back and ·r ead some of
the stories about the Captain of the Roman Army who would take the
Roman eagle and hurl it into the midst of the enemy. and then cry to his
men. "Now for the glory of Rome, retrieve the eagle." Those men
would go and they would fight like mad. for there was no greater honor
than to die retrievin g the glorious Roman eagle. There's a great heritage
to flags.
From our beginnin g each state had its flag . South Carolina proclaimed the symbol of a rattlesna ke which read, "Don't tread on me."
Massach usetts had its pine tree. Then came Betsy Ross. George Washington sent a committee down to see Betsy Ross, whose husband . John.
had been killed in the Revoluti onary War. There was need for a national
flag. She had a great gift as a seamstre ss there on Arch Street in Philadelphia. Many of you have stood in that little home on Arch Street as
I have. Betsy Ross gave to us the first America n fla g. It flew over Fort
Stanwich . New York on August 3, 1787 and from that day to this the
flag of the United States of America has stood for justice, freedom.
truth. decency and honor. And. indeed. we have not achieved all of
these things in our national life. We have a long ways to go to attain
justice for every man. But the flag stands as a reminder of ou~ heritage.
that we are dedicate d to justice for all men. And all of my life I have
been privileged to drink from that well.
And the one other thing that I would say is that all of my life I have
been privileged to. drink from the great well of our faith .
Now you take a million prospect ors and you throw them together in
a virgin country and you are going to have religious intoleran ce. It
wasn't until the coming of William Penn to Pennsylv ania. and Roger
Williams to Rhode Island. that religious tolerance began to make itself
felt in our national life. Then in the 18th Century came the Baptists
and the Quakers . the Methodi sts and the Presbyterians, by the thousands. Then came the great era of the evangelists: Dwight L. Moody.
Sanky and Billy Sunday, on down to a Billy Graham. And all throug h
the core of our national life there has been a fundame ntal belief that
there is One greater than ourselve s who has a hand in the affairs of man.
This is our heritage. America was not founded by agnostics and
atheists. Oh, they were there to be sure. but you go back and read our
great documen ts. John Withers poon signed our Declarat ion of Independence. Who was he? Why he was a Presbyte rian clergyma n, an
elder, Presiden t of Princetio n Universi ty. and there sat at the feet of
this man a young student named James Madison . As James Madison
listened to Withers poon. he began to dream of a Constitu tion of the
United States, and the Constitu tion was born out of the soul of a man
who had a fundame ntal belief in God.
00 a pole.

12

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

The greates t discov ery that one ever makes is that there is a Power
that makes for righteo usness in this univers e. Now I say this
becaus e
we are living in a time of skepticism and your danger and mine
is not
that we will be overly optimistic. The danger is that we will be so
utterly
pessimistic that we will see no stars in the sky, we will hear no heaven
ly
voices.
I was speaki ng out at Redlan ds Univer sity some time ago for
a
studen t convoc ation and at the close. a brillian t young intellectual
vacuum
came forwar d and said, "I would like to be able to believe some
of the
things you have talked about this morning, sir, but all of my life
I have
been taught to doubt everyth ing." "Well ," I said, "My young
friend,
that's the purpos e of educat ion .. . to teach us to doubt, to questio
n , to
challen ge."
We've change d the old mottos . We no longer say what goes
up
must come down. We say what goes up must come down- unless
it
orbits. We've change d old ideas. But becaus e one has learned
how to
questio n and challen ge and become skeptic al doesn' t mean tha~
he has
found answer s, and there are answer s for which men are searchi
ng.
Some of you may remem ber the story of the chap who was walkin
g
throug h a cemete ry late one night and he acciden tally tripped
and fell
into an open grave. He struggl ed for a little while and tried to
get out
of it but couldn ' t quite make it. He decide d to settle down and
spend
the night. About fifteen minute s later anothe r young fellow came
along
in the same cemete ry. He tripped. He fell into the same grave.
He
struggl ed for about ten minutes to reach the top. Finally he decide
d he'd
better settle down and hoped they would find him in the mornin g.
He was
just on the verge of getting comfor table when a hand reache d out
in the
dark, tapped him on the should er and said, "You can't get out of
here."
But he did! ! l
And you see, we get into these ruts of skepticism and cynicism
we
think we can't get out of them, but we can. There's a road sign
in Can~
ada which reads, "Choo se your rut careful ly. you'll be in it for the
next
twenty miles." And there are people who have been in ruts for
twenty
miles and thirty years and forty years, and need to get out of
them. I
submit to you this mornin g that there is a power in this univers
e that
makes for righteo usness in this universe.
Mr. Hitler missed an ancien t Germa n legend , a very simple one.
Had
he gotten hold of it, the whole history of man might have been differe
nt
for t~is genera tion. For the legend says very simply , "Lies have
short
legs.
Now I ask you, if we live in a univers e in which we go it blind; if
we
live in the kind of world in which you get by with absolu tely anythin
g,
why is it in this kind of a society that lies have short legs? Why
is it, as
you look across the centuri es, that the Attila the Huns, the Alexan
der
the Greats , the Ca esars, the Pilates , the Hitlers, the Stalins , go
down

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

13

to defeat and, ultimat ely, their little system s crumpl e with them.
And
there is reborn in the human mind and the human soul those
great
dreams , those great ideals that carry mankin d a step further along
the
road to Brothe rhood, Fratern ity and unders tanding . Why?
Because
there is a God in this univers e who makes a difference in human Life.
Let me close with this.
You remem ber that wonde rful scene in Thornt on Wilder 's "Our
Town. " T~e .mailman is coming down the street in the early mornin
g
hours, and 1t is the day before electricity. A little boy is getting
up to
go to school and looks out the second story window of his bedroo
m, and
watche s as the mailman pulls up under one of the old gasligh ts.
He is
trying to determ ine the addres s on an envelope. but is so startled
by
what he sees that he reads aloud as follows : "Mr. So and So. Grover
's
Corner , New Hamps hire. United States of Americ a, North Americ
an
Contin ent, the Weste rn Hemis phere, the Earth, the Solar System
. the
Univer se, the Mind of God." The little boy leans out the window
and
cries, "Well, waddy a know? Wadd ya know? "
And what do you know- but when we keep our faith in the dignity
and worth of man. when we keep alive our sense of freedom
with its
responsibility. when we retain our loyalty to our fl ag and our countr
y.
and ~hen we walk with the profou nd faith in God-w hat do you
know,
but m some strange , wonde rful way, we become an extensi on
of the
mind of God at work in this univers e among men?
And so, as the children of Israel were coming into this new
and
strang e land, they were remind ed that they would inherit benefit
s that
they had. not ~h~.mselves created . The good Lord indicat ed they
were
about to inherit ... houses full of good things which thou filledst
not,
and wells digged which thou digged st not, vineya rds and olive
trees.
which thou plande dst not; when thou shalt have eaten and be full
then
beware lest thou forget the Lord," or your heritag e.
And as we have been privile ged to drink from the great well of
the
glory of our people , freedom, our flag and our faith, let us too
beware,
lest we forget our heritag e. For you read it on the east wall
of the
Library of Congre ss, "Too low they build who build beneat h the
stars."
Did you really get that-" Too low they build who build beneat
h the
stars."
Let us be builder s for our greater tomorrows.

Necrology
We have assembled here this mornin g for the purpos e of paying
our last .tribute to those B~others who have been called from their
earthly
labors smce the last meeting of this Grand Lodge. As we call the
roll of
our depart ed Brothe rs, we recall their many virtues and grieve
for the
fellows hip that we shall enjoy no more. Death has called from our
midst
the largest numbe r in the history of this Grand Lodge.

15

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF Cl\LIPORNIA

Four hundred and sixty-five of our Brethren have been summoned
to the Lodge above. Among them, two Past Grand Masters, two veteran
Inspectors and many of the most dedicated members of our Craft.
One of the most beloved Masons in California left us on March 1,
when Ernest G. (Doc) Bashor. a Past Master of Sunset Lodge No. 352,
was called from this earthly life. A special eulogy in his memory was
prepared by Brother Ralph H. Head, also a Past Master of Sunset
Lodge and his close friend for many years. It was hoped that he could
deliver this eulogy this morning but circumstances beyond his control
render it impossible for him to arrive in time for this service. I will
deliver Brother Bashor's eulogy as Ralph wrote it.
Time being of the essence, does not permit more than a few eulogies
of our departed brothers. however, a complete list of their names will be
attached to and become a permanent part of the record of these proceedings.

western front, and was elected to Parliament in 1922. During the late
1930's he was Governor of Bombay and later Under Secretary of State
for India and Burma. He was Lord Chamberlain of England from 1952
to 1963.
His Masonic career was indeed one of devotion, having served as
Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England for 18 years.
Many of you present this day will remember him as our guest at the
dedication of this Temple in 1958. at which time he addressed our Grand
Lodge at some length, concluding his remarks by presenting the Grand
Lodge of California, on behalf of the United Grand Lodge of England,
a silver and crystal ink stand made in 1783, during the reign of King
George III, to be used by future Grand Masters of Masons in California.
This is now on display in the central case on the second floor.
Roy Weiland, a native of Ohio where he was born March 17, 1896,
was a member of Crocker Lodge No. 454 of Daly City. He departed
this life on Christmas Day, 1968. He was raised November 3, 1937, in
Crocker Lodge and served as its Master in 1948. Immediately after relinquishing the Master's chair, he was elected Secretary of his Lodge,
serving continuously for ten years and, after an interval. again from
1964 to 1966.
He served Grand Lodge on its Distinguished Guest Committee from
1958 to 1965 and from 1967 to the time of his death, on the Grand Lodge
Week Activities Committee. He was a Past Patron of Crocker Chapter, Order of the Eastern Star, a member of the California Scottish Rite
Bodies, of San Francisco, Islam Temple of the Shrine, Royal Order of
Jesters and Honorary Member of the Temple Guard.
He is survived by his wife Rose as well as a son and daughter.

William F. Holman, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Minnesota for two years, and a dual member of Silver Cord Lodge No. 505
of Santa Ana, passed away on August 10 in Santa Ana, California. at
the age of 86. He was raised in Cataract Lodge No. 1 in Minnesota and
was a charter member and Past Master of University Lodge in Minneapolis. A 33° Scottish Rite Mason, he led the Maundy Thursday services in Orange County last Easter. An honorary member of Zuhrah
Temple of the Shrine and a very active member of El Bekel Shrine
Temple of Long Beach, Past Patron Hermosa Chapter 105 O.E.S.
He initiated and guided the development of the Masonic Cancer
Hospital at the University of Minnesota and led in the endowment of
over a million dollars for this hospital. toward the care of the ill and the
infirm. He and his wife, Grace, gave unsparingly of themselves in
support of the Masonic Homes of California, in particular their work for
the Childrens Home at Covina.
A a scholar, he ranked with the highest. A native of Friend, Nebraska, he was a Phi Beta Kappa at the University of Nebraska and taught
there for seventeen years. Returning to Minnesota, he taught there for
forty-three years, finally assuming charge of the entire physical plant
of the University. He served under all but two of the University's
presidents.
A devoted family man, he and his wife, Grace, met on the campus
where he was teaching and to whom he was married for 57 years. Besides his devoted wife. he leaves a son, John, and a daughter, Jane.
Earl of Scarbrough-We note with ·r egret the news of the death of
England's Earl of Scarbrough in June of this year. The former Lord
Chamberlain died at the age of 72. He served his country in many
capacities during his lifetime, having served in World War I on the

George Morris Warner, our friend and Brother, was called without
warning from our midst on Friday, January 10, 1969, struck down by
an automobile as he left the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Temple. A dual
member of Menorah Lodge No. 623, where he was raised in 1942, and
John Marshall Lodge No. 636, where he had just concluded a brilliant
year as Master. George lived Masonry, every waking moment. Active
on many committees of Menorah Lodge where he served as its Treasurer
in 1945. He also was active in Al Malaikah Temple of the Shrine.
He joined the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies in June, 1945, and
served on many of its committees and, most important, on its Welfare
Committee, serving without stint wherever and whenever called on. A
friendly, gregarious man who loved his fellow man and delighted in
demonstrating that affection when in the presence of the afflicted, the
destitute, the aged or ill Brother, the widow and the orphan. The distress
of a Brother, the tears of the widow and the hurt of a child were never
so muted as to escape his attention. In recognition of his service, the
Supreme Council was pleased to invest him with the rank and decoration
of Knight Commander of the Court of Honor on October 3, 1967.

16

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIF ORN IA

George was a native of Boston where he was born on March 2, 1903,
and where he spent the early years of his life. A graduate of Dartmouth
College, he entered the Bentley School of Accounting, graduating cum
laude. He came to California in 1925 where he spent the rest of his life.
In 1940 he was united in marriage with Miss Jean Krimston of Chicago.
who survives him. At the time of his death. he was serving this Grand
Lodge on a special 'C ommittee set up by the Grand Master to study possible revisions in our Fifty-Year Pin.

He was brought to California by his family in 1906, settling in the old
town of Sherman, now known as West Hollywood. He built his home
with his own hands, just a few doors off the Sunset Strip and there he
spent the last seven years of his life bedridden , until at last he found
blessed release from his bed of pain, called home to his Master.
He operated a successful insurance brokerage business as well as
being a business manager of estates. He was a member of the West
Hollywood Kiwanis Club for 36 years. He was raised in Hollywood
Lodge No. 355 on December 16, 1921. and was instrumental in forming
John Marshall Lodge No. 636 in 1926, of which he was a charter member. He served as its Master in 1938. His father , as well as his son, were
all members of John Marshall Lodge at one time-three generations,
something of a ·record. A member of the Los Angeles Scottish Rite
Bodies, he received the rank and decoration of Knight Commander of
the Court of Honor, December 19, 1959. In 1958 he was appointed to
the Finance Committee of Grand Lodge where he served through 1963.
He was married on April 29, 1922 to lnettah May Danforth. Two
children, Richard Gordon and Patricia Ann were born of that union.
They all survive him, as well as seven grandchildren.

David Bertil Hope-We note with regret the passing of Brother
David Berti! Hope. a Past Master of Mosaic Lodge No. 218 of Livermore, where he was raised March 10, 1926, serving as Master in 1938.
He was a member of the Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies and Aahmes
Temple of the Shrine. A distinguished political writer, he was employed on the staff of the Oakland Tribune, which he joined in 1937,
continuing until his untimely passing a t his desk on February Ii, 1969.
Governor Reagan paid Brother Hope a fine tribute when notified of
his death, saying, in part, "An extremely able man and perspective
writer, a man of mature judgement, whose dedication to the principles
of integrity and responsibility in reporting placed him in the very elite
of his profession . He commanded the love and respect of all of us. He
loved his work. Those with whom he worked loved him. We have all
lost a friend."
He is survived by his wife, Flora, two daughters. a sister and his
brother, James, of San Leandro.
Charles Joseph Savage, a member of San Diego Lodge No. 35, passed
to his heavenly reward on February 14, 1969. He was born December
11, 1905 in Chicago, Illinois. Coming to San Diego at an early age, he
joined the editorial staff of the San Diego Sun and later moving to the
San Diego Union. He worked in many departments of that newspaper
and in 1938 was named City Editor, where he remained until 1942 when
he was commissioned a Lieutenant in the Naval Reserve. retiring in 1962
with the rank of Commander.
He was raised in Blackmer Lodge No. 442 on September 19, 1938,
serving as Master in 1948. Appointed Inspector of the 640th Masonic
District in 1951, he served in that capacity until 1960. He served Grand
Lodge from 1961 to 1963 as a member of the Committee on Masonic
Information. He affiliated with San Diego Lodge No. 35 in 1966. He
received his Scottish Rite Degrees in the spring class of 1953 and was
decorated with the rank and decoration of Knight Commander of the
Court of Honor on December 14, 1957.

Atwill Thomas Morgan was born September 22, 1900, in St. Louis ,
Missouri. the son of Gordon Thomas Morgan and Susie Mae M organ.

Frederick F. Elliott-A truly devoted member of the Craft was lost
to us in the departure from this life of Frederick F. Elliott on March 11
of this year. A native of Masstown, Nova Scotia, where he was born
May 18, 1915, he came to Bell. California, at the age of six. His mother
passed away shortly thereafter while his father was serving in the U. S.
Navy. and so Fred became a resident of our Home for Children in
Covina for the yeats 1927-28, until his father was able to again establish
a home for his family. He graduated from the public schools of Bell. In
1935 he was married to his lovely wife, Irene, who survives him as do
their children, Edythe and Randall. Active in civic affairs he served as
City Councilman of Bell from 1941 to 1954.
He was raised in Bell Lodge No. 483 on May 24, 1945, and served
as Master of that Lodge in 1956. He served the Grand Lodge in many
capacities. In 1958 he was appointed Senior Grand Deacon. He also
served for three years on the Masonic Homes Endowment Board. In
1964 he was appointed Inspector of the 594th Masonic District, which
office he held until shortly before his death. A member of Al Malaikah
Temple of the Shrine, Long Beach Scottish R ite Bodies and the Order
of the Eastern Star, he exemplified Masonry in its very finest sense.

I'

Glenn C. Holbert-Our Brethren in the San D iego area have suffered
a great loss in the death of Glenn C. Holbert on November 16, 1968. A
native of Gaynor City. Missouri, where he was born December 3, 1899.
He came to Southern California in 1923. where he met his wife, Dollie .
who survives him.
Brother Glenn was raised a Master Mason in Coronado Lodge No.

18

19

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

441 in 1936 and served as its Master in 1943. He became very active
in the Scottish Rite Bodies of San Diego, where he received the rank
and decoration of Knight Commander of the C ourt of Honor in 1943.
In 1952 he was coroneted a Thirty-third Degree Mason. He served as
Venera ble Master of the San Diego Lodge of P erfection in 1950-51.
He was a member of San Diego Chapter No. 91 of the Royal Arch, also
a member of Al Bahr Temple of the Shrine. A constant worker in our
Fraternity, he served for a number of years as a member of the San
Diego Board of Relief. He also served on the Finance Committee of
Grand Lodge. A leader in the civic life of San Diego, he left behind
countless friends who mourn his passing.

Brother Judd also had a distinguished military career, nsmg from
the rank of Private to that of Major in the First H awaiian Regiment in
World W ar One. Later serving as C olonel of the Hawaiian National
Guard. He was one of the founders of the American Legion. Depart.rnent of Hawaii, and served as Department Commander in 1960.
True to form, his Masonic career was notable for the same enthusiasm
that marked his every activity. He received his Third Degree in Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 on December 4, 1915. He was also a charter
member of Waikiki Lodge No. 774, of which he was a trustee.
Member of Honolulu Commandery No. 1. Knights Templar; Aloha
Temple of the Shrine (Potentate 1925): Royal Order of Jesters; Red
Cross of Constantine; and Honolulu Sojourners, Chapter II.
He is survived by his widow, Eva; son, Lawrence Judd, Jr.: five
daughters; nine grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
His life should serve as an example and inspiration to all of us for
he did his full duty throughout a long life.
"The heights by such men reached and kept.
Were not attained by sudden flight;
For they. while their companions slept,
Were toiling upward in the night."

Lawrence McCulley Judd was born in Honolulu, Hawaii, March 20,
1887. He came from a line of distinguished forebears.
His grandfather, Dr. Gerrit Parmek Judd, came to the Islands in
1829 as a medical missionary and for nearly fifty years served as statesman and adviser to Hawaiian kings.
His father, Albert Francis Judd, was a dis tinguished legislator,
lawyer and judge. A justice of the Supreme Court of Hawaii for 26
years, nineteen of them as Chief Justice.
Lawrence, in his own right, added fame and personal credits to the
family name.
He was educated in Punahou School, the Hotchkiss School and the
University of Pennsylvania; where he received his degree in business.
His business career was mostly in the merchandising field with Alexander & Baldwin, Ltd., as a Director of Theodore H. Davies & Company,
and as a Vice President and Director of the Hawaiian Meat Company.
Entering politics in 1920, he served six years in the Hawaiian Senate
(President of the Senate in 1923).
In 1929, at the age of 42, he was appointed the seventh Governor
of Hawaii by President Herbert Hoover. He served in this capacity
until 1934. Nineteen years later, in 1953, he was appointed Governor of
American Samoa, having been one of the few men ever to serve as
Governor of two territories. He subsequently resigned due to poor
health.
Over and above all of these honors, he will best be remembered for
his life long devotion to the welfare and health of the unfortunate victims
of H a nsen's disease. As a boy he watched people stricken with this
disease placed aboard ship in Honolulu Harbor for the sad trip to Kalupapa settlement on Molaki. Throughout his adult life his interest in their
welfare never ceased. He always worked toward more humane treatment for them. It was, in a great measure, due to his efforts that so many
changes for their betterment have taken place. At the age of 81 he was
still fighting for this cause. The state is now embarked on a re-examination of the handling of persons afflicted with this disease. They had
hoped to include him on the committee to make the review.

Ernest G . Bashor-The Roman philosopher, Seneca, wrote "Let us
see to it that our lives, like jewels of great price. be noteworthy not
because of their width, but because of their weight. Let us measure them
by their performance, not their dura tion."
Weighed by performance, the life of Brother Ernest G. Bashor would
total millions of carats, for few have lived so full a life and contrib uted
so greatly to the welfare of his fellow man as he.
Ernest Bashor was raised a Master Mason in Sunset Lodge N o. 352
on July 30, 1918, and guided his Lodge as Master in 1935. For twentytwo years he was a member of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board
and for fourteen years its Chairman. During his tenure the Endowment
Fund increased from one to seven million dollars.
Ernest Bashor was a complete man. Consider this: He was a practicing physician and surgeon for fifty years, specializing in Obstetrics
and Gynecology. senior on the staff of the Los Angeles County Hospital.
and founder-board member of Monte Sano Hospital.
As a member of Kiwanis, he served as President of the Los Angeles
Club, District Governor and International Trustee. For forty years he
was a member of. and past president of. the Los Angeles Breakfast Club.
For almost the same period of time Ernest Bashor was a member of the
Board of Directors of McKinley Home for Boys, serving as President
of the Board for nearly half that time.
When he died on March 1. 1969, California Freemasonry lost one of
its most stalwart and courageous members. His family lost a devoted

20

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

husband, father, and grandfather. The medical profession lost a dedicated servant, and the community of Los Angeles was divested of a
great community leader.
In the story of his life, there is every license to paraphrase the
words of the poet " .. . showed the names whom love of God had blest
and lo: Ernest Bashor' s name led all the rest."

Lester George Bruno by Harold N. Richards, Grand Lecturer-We
who survive, we who ourselves are "only waiting 'til the shadows are a
little longer," pay now a last tribute of that respect and affection we
have for Lester George Bruno, who was summoned from our midst by
Our Supreme Grand Master quite suddenly on April 1, 1969. thus bringing to a close a brilliant Masonic career at its very zenith.
He was a powerful influence upon the youth and Masonic fabric of
his times. His virtues are engraved upon the hearts of those who knew
him best. Gifted with extraordinary natural abilities. directed by unswerving fidelity to his own convictions. matured by reflection and experience. he rose rapidly in his devotion to Masonry and humanity.
Starting with Sacramento Chapter Order of De Molay he became
Master Councilor. After reaching his majority year he still maintained
his interest, serving on the advisory council. chairmaning that group,
Chapter Dad Advisor for several years, rising to State Dad Advisor for
Northern California and finally. at the time of his death was an honorary
member of the International Supreme Council. Order of De Molay.
On this platform this evening it will be our pleasure to be entertained
by a wonderful group of boys and girls from our Youth Orders-the
Northern California De Molay Show and Band. Les Bruno was one of
the organizers of the De Molay Show and Band, serving as president
at the time of his death. He was a key figure in the development of this
nationally recognized and highly praised organization.
He was a strong supporter and offered much encouragement to the
young men of the Chapter. He was never too busy to sit down and
counsel or off er encouragement to a young chap with something on his
mind. Les's nature dictated these little acts of thoughtfulness, not for
public relations, not for personal acclaim, but simply because Les liked
young people. and was vitally interested in their welfare.
Born in El Dorado, his early years and school days were spent in
the Sacramento and San Joaquin Valleys. He was a successful vinyardist in his later years, retiring about two years ago.
Petitioning Capital City Lodge No. i99, F. & A.M. in 1929 he rose
through the chairs to grace the oriental chair in the East in 19i 1. He
remained an active participant in Blue Lodge Masonry throughout his
Masonic career and served as Master of the Northern California Past
Masters Association a few years ago.

21

Becoming a 32nd Degree Scottish Rite Mason in 1951, he immediately became active on the stage crew and later in ritualistic work.
He served the Sacramento Bodies of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite in many capacities: As Venerable Master of the Lodge of Perfection in both 1961 and 1962; as Director of the Temple Board for many
years. and more recently as Degree Administrator for all the Degrees.
In 1957 he received the honor and decoration of Knight Commander
of the Court of Honor and coroneted a 33rd Degree Inspector General
Honorary by the Supreme Council of the Southern Jurisdiction of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite.
In 1968 he was designated the Sacramento Valley Representative
for the Sovereign Grand Inspector General of California for the Scottish
Rite.
In 1952 he became a member of Ben Ali Temple of the Shrine, and
worked diligently on the stage crew and on various committees. He was
appointed to the Divan three years ago, and at the time of his death he
was serving as Oriental Guide in the progressive line of Ben Ali Temple.
A champion and defender of freedom and the public schools. a gifted
leader of the good fight, a master of the "retort courteous," a wit and
lover of life, his was a powerful personality and a luminous mind. He
has left a lasting mark for good upon the men and events of his time.
The California Legislature. by Resolution of the Assembly Rules
Committee, recognized Lester G. Bruno's accomplishments in the areas
of service to youth, to Freemasonry. and to his community. and expressed
its regret at the passing of "a man of character and devotion to his
fellowman."
Another Mason, Edwin Markham, the poet, expressed a philosophy
subscribed to by many of us:
"There is a destiny that makes us brothers
None goes his way alone
All that we send into the lives of others
Comes back into our own."
Such was the life, philosophy. and purpose of Lester G. Bruno-And such was his reward!

Irvin Shulkin-A Life of Love and Harmony-We are taught that
"though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels and have not
love, I am become as sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal. . . . And now
abideth faith . hope and love, these three, but the greatest of these is
love; and ...
"As harmony is essential. so should harmony continue to be the
strength and support of all sm:ieties. esp.:cially of ours."
Irvin Shulkin's life is filled with love and ha rmony. Constantly displayed in his smile and in his every act, he led a joyous and happy life of
dedication and service to his God, his family, his neighbor and his friend.

22

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

Irv was born in Sioux City. Iowa on March 17, 1906. The down-toearth simplicity of that typically Midweste rn town marked him throughout his whole life with us. Without pretense. without self-pride or ego,
he sought perfection in everything he did , and, having attained perfection, wore it with his characteri stic humility.
Harmony was exhibited in early youth. and through the medium of
music, he brought happiness to others. Having perfected himself in the
trumpet. Irv left the town of Sioux City behind. and in the 20s traveled
with the bands of that day, starting out with Red Nichols and graduatin g
to such big bands as Jimmy Greer, the Dorsey Brothers and Paul
Whiteman .
It was while playing with Phil Harris in San Francisco that Irv
met his life-long partner, Nora, then singing with Meredith Willson.
They met at the famous St. Francis Hotel and were married in I 933.
Their children , Katherine Kristine and Steffen, known as Kathy and
Steff to their family and friends. attest through the dose harmony of
the Shulkin family to Irv and Nora's virtuosity in family life.
With the coming of the children, a more settled life became the
family, and Irv settled into studio and radio work. It was in I 945 that
he became a Mason, and quite naturally. petitioned Silver Trowel Lodge
No. 415 in Hollywoo d.
Here, again, the harmony of Masonry captured Irv's imagination.
and in the rhythms of our ritual. he saw a challenge and reward. His
abilities soon found recognition, and he rose through the officer corps
to service as Master in 1954.
In 1962, the call to service again was heard and Irv was drafted to
serve as Inspector of the 568th Masonic District. The officers and
members of Benjamin Franklin. Ionic, Beverly Hills and John Marshall
Lodges present at his memorial service bear testimony of Irv's untiring
devotion to each of them. Through triumphs and defeats. through joy
and near despair, through all of the satisfactio ns and disappoin tments of
Lodge life, he guided them like the conductor of a great orchestra, calling
on each for all that could be given and blending in his own talents to
produce the harmony and perfection which was his own mark.
Irv's happiest years Masonica lly were spent in the lnspectora l Corps.
Here he met equally devoted and dedicated men, and, with them, practiced the art, making and giving friendship unselfishly.
Surely, no man could go to his Maker from a scene dearer to his
heart than that of Thursday night, October 2nd. Playing a role in the
raising of Robert A. Crigler. Jr.. son of our Grand Master, Irvin Shulkin
went with death the kind messenger sent to translate him from this imperfect to that all-perfect . glorious and celestial Lodge above, where the
Supreme Grand Master of the universe forever presides.
There love and harmony will also forever prevail for our departed
Brother.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

23

Frank Wade Raddatz- Past Master. Meridian Lodge No. 667.
f. & A. M. Inspector. 524th Masonic District, Grand Lodge F. & A. M.
of California , February 18. 1899. to October 1. 1969.
"After the tempest-c alm,
After the shadow-l ight,
And the golden dawn breaks clearly
After the long, long night,
After the rain, the sunshine,
After the tears. the laughter,
And when this life is over,
Life eternal follows after."
A belief in God and immortalit y is a requireme nt for all who would
become members of the Masonic Fraternity and, possessing this b~lief.
frank Raddatz could accept the transition from life as we know 1t to
life eternal with understan ding and without fear.
On October 1, 1969, the Masons in the Glendale area were stunned
to learn that their beloved Inspector had suffered an unexpecte d, fatal
heart attack while on a short vacation just prior to this Communi cation
of Grand Lodge.
Frank was close to me in that he was an officer of Meridian Lodge
No. 667 during my years as Inspector of the old 86th Masonic D istrict
and it was my privilege to install him as Master of his Lodge in 1949.
Then it became my great pleasure to recommen d him to be my
successor in 1950 and to have him as my Inspector during the past 19
years.
•
.
Funeral services, including the Masonic service, were conducted m
the First Baptist Church in Glendale on October 4th in the presence of
675 friends including 225 Masons . Indicative of the esteem in which
Frank was held was the presence of the Grand M aster and the Assistant
Grand Lecturer of Division 5 who assisted as pall-beare rs . Also present
were the Senior Grand Warden , three Past Grand Masters and nu merous Grand Officers, Inspectors and Grand Lodge committeemen.
Frank was born in Stockton , Utah on February 18. 1899 and he
spent most of his adult years in Los Angeles County. Except for a six
months period in 1942, during which he was a member of the Un ited
States Air Force, Frank's business career was with the Purchasin g Department of the County. In February of this year, after '16 years of
service, he retired as Chief Deputy Purchasin g Agent and a testimonial
dinner at the Huntingto n-Sherato n Hotel in Pasadena , attended by a
large group of business associates and Masons. was evidence of the
esteem in which Frank was held.
In addition to a number of profession al societies to which he belonged, Frank was a member of the Los Angeles County Acacia Club and
the Los Angeles Bodies of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite in
which he had been an active member since 1955.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

24

25

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

It was in the course of his business activities that Frank met the one
who was to be his loyal and faithful help-mate, H arriet, to whom he was
joined in marriage on October 12. 194 2. There can be no question but
that much of Frank's successes in business and fraternal life were due to
the inspiration he received from his devoted wife.
In addition to his wife, Frank is survived by two brothers-Otto . also
a Past Master of Meridian Lodge, and Richard. These and other relatives mourn his passing.
It is interesting to note that of 187 Inspectors presently serving the
Grand Lodge of California, Frank ranked ninth in seniority-trul y a
remarkable record of faithful service-solely for the betterment of
Masonry and his fellow man-and with no thought of personal gain.
Plain and unpretentious in his demeanor and habits, Frank was at
ease with all men- and they with him. Plain spoken and uncompromising when occasion required, yet he offered friendliness. compassion
and understanding -and his dry wit and humor were relished by his
friends.
Frank was a quiet man-a good listener-and a good thinker. When
he spoke it was with conviction. Frank was dependable-o ne of the
stalwarts so necessary to the success of whatever the project might be.
Frank meant much to the officers and members of the Lodges which
came under his care during his years as Inspector.
He was affectionately called "Mother" Raddatz because he helped
bring so many new Lodges into existence. Frank was also highly regarded by his fellow Inspectors. the Grand Lodge Officers and committeemen and by every Grand Master under whom he served because of
his capabilities, his devotion to Masonry and his willingness, always, to
serve whenever called upon.
And. most importa ntly, these attributes relating to Frank's character
carried over into his home life. He and Harriet shared their lives together as few couples are privileged to do. Notwithstandi ng his contributions for others, the ties of home and family always came first in the
scheme of life for Frank.
In bringing these remarks to a close. perhaps we can fasten on just
one of Fra nk's many attributes to place among our memories. I spea k
of his humbleness-n ot in the sense of a weakness but, rather, in his
a ppreciation of the many blessings he considered to be his.
This causes me to think of one illustrious in Masonic history, a man
called upon to help build a t em ple. A humble man, he did not bear the
title of king as did his two associates-he was the architect who drew
the designs upon the trestleboard whereby his Brethren might pursue
their labors. As a leader of Masonry in his community, Frank, too, was
an architect who drew designs upon the trestleboard that his Brethren
might fulfill their tasks. And to one so engaged, no greater honor can
come than to be known as a builder of men .

To the memory of Frank Raddatz, we speak these few words penned
by Winn MacCourt:
.
"Friends are treasures we receive as onward through our lives we go.
Ones to count on we believe-to share our happiness and woe.
A smile, a word, a friendly deed brings with it all that we do needto brighten up a cloudy day,
God bless our friend-for this we pray."

26

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EULOGY
ARTHUR PAULSEN

By L. Harold Anderson
I am indeed indebted to our Most Worshipful Grand Master for the
privilege of devoting a few minutes in a service of loving memory and
deep appreciation for our Past Grand Master Arthur Paulsen. He was a
great and good man, a much beloved friend , a dedicated Masonic
Brother and a true Christian gentleman.
When I first became acquainted with Brother Paulsen and had the
opportunity to know him so well was when he and I were appointed as
two of the members of a Special Committee of three for the Masonic
Homes. At this time I was serving as President of the California State
Public Utilities Commission and Brother Paulsen was a Superior Court
Judge from Weaverville, having served in that capacity since 1933. His
kindly legal mind was of most importance in the work of the committee.
Arthur Paulsen was born in Weaverville May 4, 1890. the son of
Peter M. and Barbara Paulsen. California pioneers of Gold Rush days.
Peter Paulsen engaged not only in mining, the common pursuit of the
day, but also in the hotel business in Weaverville.
Arthur Paulsen received his early education in Weaverville, and
was admitted to the practice of law in California March 12, 1917. Elected
to the office of District Attorney of Trinity County in January 1923, he
filled the post with distinction. He became a judge of the Superior Court
of Trinity County in January 1933, a position in which he has distinguished himself. Judge Paulsen is recognized by his colleagues as being
possessed of a very fine legal mind, and much of his time was spent away
from Weaverville holding court in various parts of the state at the request and direction of the State Judicial Council.
·Responding to the call of bis country in 1917, he enlisted in World
War I. and served in the 144tb Field Artillery in F ranee.
Arthur Paulsen and Jennie Skinner were married in Sacramento
October 21, 1919, and to them was born a daughter, Gloria Evelyn.
His Masonic career has been one of service to Trinity Lodge No. 27,
where he was raised August 2, 1913. and to the Grand Lodge of California. His first position in Trinity Lodge No. 27 was that of Senior
Deacon and he became Master in 1924. He was appointed Junior Grand
Deacon of the Grand Lodge in 1941 and in 1943 very capably filled the
office of Grand Orator. He served as a member of the Committee on
Charters, the Committee on Jurisprudence, the Special Committee on
the Masonic Homes, and the Special Committee on Masonic Homes
Admissions. In 194 7 be was elected the Junior Grand Warden of Grand
Lodge, and served successively as Senior Grand Warden, and Deputy
Grand Master until his election as Grand Master in 1950.
Judge Paulsen was a member of Royal Arch Masons, serving as High

ARTHUR PAULSEN
Grand Mas ter-1950
Born

May 1. 1890
W eaverv ille, California

D ied
September 20, 1969
W eaver ville. C ;ilifo rnia

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

Priest of Trinity Chaper, later consolidated with Shasta Chapter No. 19.
As might be expected of a judge and an outstanding citizen of his
own county, Arthur Paulsen has been identified with all worthwhile
public services including the Red Cross, Tuberculosis Association, the
Boy Scouts, and crippled children's organizations. His other memberships include the American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the
Order of Odd Fellows, and the Native Sons of the Golden West. With
all his activity, he still found the time to serve on the Board of Trustees
of Trinity Congregational Church in Weaverville.
It has been well said that "It is the lot of many to rule; to rule
well is the fortune of but few" and no better single descriptive phrase
could be chosen for the term of Grand Master Paulsen. When it was
necessary to rule, he ruled well, with firmness and impartiality. Perhaps
it was the fact that he lived in a remote, mountainous county, far removed from the stress and strain of city life, that gave him such dear
objective thinking on the problems of the Grand Lodge, but whatever
it was, the depth of his understanding was matched only by his sincerity
in applying the principles of Freemasonry to the situations which confronted him. He will long be respected for meeting and talking with the
Brethren "on the level" and he will likewise be well remembered for his
intense interest in the program of Masonic education.
As time adds luster to the names of men who build well in organizations, the name of Arthur Paulsen will stand out in the long list of men
who have served the Grand Lodge of California during the past one
hundred twenty years.

28

29

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EULOGY
EDGAR V . STEWART , JR.
By Ellsworth Meyer

the next two Grand Masters also chose him for that office, a distinction
indeed. Thereafter he was appointed an Inspector and reappointed
until, after five years, he was elected Junior Grand Warden. He advanced and in October, 1955. was elected Grand M aster.
D uring the ensuing year, his sense of humor prompted him to repeatedly point out another distinction. that, due to the changing of the
dates for the Annual Communication. he was bound to serve the shortest full term of any Grand Master, only forty-seven weeks. It was a
busy yea r, for he constituted seventeen newly chartered Lodges. laid
seventeen cornerstones and attended to all the receptions, breakfasts and
other affairs associated with the office. In February. he was elected
chairman of the Conference of Grand M as ters, hence he presided over
the 1956 conference and opened the 1957 session.
On the completion of his term as our Grand Master, he served for
two years on the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and then
was appointed to the Board of Trustees of our Masonic Homes. He
was reappointed for two additional terms of three years or the constitutional maximum of nine years. during the las t seven of which he was
president of the board. For the year I 968. he returned to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
I have enumerated these dates. offices and committee appointments
to recall to our minds that continuously for twenty-four years he was
serving this Grand Lodge as an officer, committeeman or board mem ~
ber and that, in succession , sixteen Grand Masters had found him
worthy and well qualified for different tasks. These official acts speak
more eloquently than any words I could conjure up, but do not completely delineate the man.
Of medium height, he was always impeccably attired. His voice was
pleasantly deep and carried well. During thirty-three years of contact
with him , from one to three times each week, never once did I hear his
voice raised in anger. Profanity he knew not. All his friends knew of
his religious devotion, but he never intruded it into conversations or the
affairs of others. He lived his faith, but did not expect all others to conform to the standards he set for himself. When it was his duty to be
somewhere, he invariably was there. When he had some task to per~
form, he punctually performed it without flurry or ostentation. His days
-his life, were of even tenor and of service to mankind . He builded
well.
Of Ned Stewart and the four hundred and s ixty-four other members of this Grand Lodge who have stepped across the Great Threshhold, we are confident that they are " happy in our Father's mansion,
busy in another room."

?n. M ay 22 of this year, another of our P ast Grand Masters gained
adm1ss1on to that celestial lodge which never. never closes, Brother
Edgar V . Stewart. Jr .. 90th Grand Master of this jurisdiction. He is
survived by his beloved wife, Marion.
Ned, as all his many friends affectionately called him. was born in
Brooklyn, New York, in 1901 and his parents brought him to Los Angeles at an early age. His education w as in the public schools of that
city and he was graduated from Manual Arts High School. He continued his education by attendance at a business college and through
university extension courses.
He first entered retail trade but then turned to what became his
life work, that of an insurance underwriter. In his chosen field, he was
indeed successful, but he devoted a substantial part of his years to the
service of others.
For more than twenty years, he was a member of the board of directors of the Midnight Mission. one of the largest charitable organizations in Los Angeles and twice served as president of the board. He was
an active, devoted member of the First Church of Christ. Scientist, in
Beverly Hills , served on its board of directors and a term as president
of the board.
On this occasion. we shall principally note his M asonic career, which
was long, distinguished and marked by several unusual features.
Ned received his degrees in Loyalty Lodge, Los Angeles; the first
but seven months after his twenty-first birthday and his third seven
months later in December, 1923. Distinction number one, he was appointed Chaplain for the ensuing year. He continued to advance in
office and five years later was elected M aster for the year 1929. Distincton number two, he was the first Master of Loyalty Lodge who
had received the degrees therein.
While he was advancing in his Lodge. he received the degrees of
the Scottish Rite in the Los Angeles Bodies. Being a good ritualist, he
was soon busy in several of the degrees of the Rite and was invested
with the rank and decoration of Knight Commander of the Court of
Honor in 1937 and coroneted with the Thirty-third Degree in 1943.
Two years later he was appointed a director of degree work and elected
Junior Warden of the Lodge of Perfection. He continued in the first
capacity for 18 years until 1961 and served as Junior or Senior Warden
for 25 years until 1968, when he was elected Venerable Master.
Hls first office in this Grand Lodge was a ppointment as Grand Marshal in October, 19H, and the discharge of his duties was such that

30

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARDENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
Lodge
Date of
Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
No.
Name
Death
95 Owens, John N ............... 12-12-68
1 Young, Raymond E. ..._. 3-26-69
99 Boysen, Leland D ........... 3-29-69
1 Hurst, J ames .................. 1- 9-69
99 Chenoweth, Walter J ..... 9- 2-68
2 Mason, Ben A. ................10-21-68
2 Jones, Joseph .................. 9- 1-68 101 Quinn, Enoch B ............... 2-11-69
3 Sutton, Ralph B ............. 7-28-68 101 Vincent, Earl T ............... 2-28-69
3 Sorensen, Andrew ........10-30-68 103 Gault, Alroy J ................. 10-27-68
3 Ambrose, George A ....... 1- 4-69 103 Davis, Walter H ............. 11-15-68
17 L assalle, Felix, P ........... 8-24-68 103 J acobs, Douglas R. ........ 1-31-69
19 Colberg, Henry J ........... 6-20-69 104 Robertson, Harold W .....10- 6-68
20 Scholefield, H arold !..... 7- 4-68 106 Mortensen, J ohn C......... 2- 1-69
20 Archer, Frederick P ..... 3-20-69 110 McGowan, Lester D ... .... 9-18-68
21 Smith, Gordon E........... 2-15-69 111 L ewis, Hayden G ........... 6-19-69
22 Ames, Alden....................12- 9-68 117 Foss, George C................. 2-16-69
22 Ellery, John W ............... 3-13-69 123 Mothorn, Lydon E ......... 2-10-69
23 Oates, Phillip H ............. 7- 1-68 126 MacKenzie,
Clarence J ....................... 3-12-69
24 J enkins, Joseph ............ 12-14-68
24 Laycock, Harvey B....... 2-14-69 135 Bishop, Ralph T ............. 2-11-69
24 Price, Thomas B .....·-····· 4-26-69 136 Schiller, Jerome L ......... 1- 8-69
26 Panning, Henry
7-11-68 144 Brown, Charles R. ..........12-13-68
26 Higgins, Howard E ....... 4-13-69 156 Martin, J. B ..................... 2-18-69
30 Pagone, Francesco ........ 9-18-68 166 Sand, Paul S ................... 6-17-69
30 Dell'Artino, Amadeo .... 2-13-69 169 Nutz, William E ............. 10-20-68
30 Baldi, R aymond J ......... 4-10-69 174 Van Ausdale,
James K ........................... 2-20-69
35 Nichols, William H ....... 9-19-68
38 Reedy, Ray R. .................. 2- 7-69 175 J obs, Julius .................... 8-19-68
38 Kaiser, Harry M ............. 6-12-69 179 Martin, Howard C ......... 6- 9-69
40 Kuechler, Edward A. .... 8-15-68 185 Hunter, Harold C ........... 11- 8-68
40 Holmes, Walter E ......... 9-16-68 185 Lcpori, Arnold E.. ........... 1-11-69
188 Gra ves, Melvin L ........... 4- 2-69
40 Schoenbachler,
Frank J. ························- 1-23-69 190 Wagoner, W illiam G ..... 8-14-68
40 Chick, James E ............... 3- 8-69 191 Schmidt, Carl R. .............. 4- 2-69
41 Barkley Jr., G eor ge T ... 2-13-69 193 Mathes, Herbert K .........11-15-68
44 Howell, William E ......... 3-21-69 193 Petersen, Peter................10-10-68
44 Hjul, Christian H ........... 3-26-69 194 Erichsen, Walter L ......... 6-21-69
45 Winn, Erroll A. ..... _....... 4- 9-69 198 La rson, Dwayne 0 ......... 8- 2-68
50 Goeken, Bernhard
5-14-69 200 Bowman, Donald H ....... 10-13-68
50 Nugent, Lloyd H ............. 6-12-69 201 Watson, Edward C ......... 8-19-68
51 Viscia, Walter ................ 9-15-68 202 Barnett, Rex W ............... 7-28-68
55 Jones, Gilbert R. ............ 8- 2-68 207 Fields, Roy E ................. .. 11- 2-68
57 L eggerini, Martin
5-19-69 209 Grove, Elmer G ............_.. 7- 2-68
57 Koford, Edw~d T ......... 2-12-69 215 Howen, Thomas C ........... 8-30-68
59 Grant, William 0 ........... 5-17-69 216 Hoffman. Jacob H .......... 4- 6-69
60 Slaten, Jr., William........ 4-16-69 218 Hope, David B ................. 2-14-69
64 Rice, Immer 0 ................. 2- 2-69 220 Meyers, Walter B .. ........ .12-15-68
68 Hamlin, Ray L ................. 2- 4-69 221 Krater , Frank B ... ........ _.12-14-68
70 Reisch , Philip M ............. 1- 1-69 222 Peterson, J ohn C ............. 3-14-69
76 Kirby, John A. ................ 4-23-69 224 Curran, Robert E ........ -.. 9-15-68
81 Foster, Lucius S ............. 8-26-68 224 Smythe, Raymond E ..... 11- 8-68
87 Harrison, Joseph C ....... 7-12-68 230 Evans, William E ........... 10-11-68
87 Brouss, Joseph ..............12- 2-68 230 Watson, Perry L .. ........... 7-25-68
87 Samuels, Fred D ........... 1-10-69 23 1 Johnson, George F ......... 1-20-69
87 Zander, Charles E ......... 5- 7-69 234 Loosley, H arold A ........... 9- 5-68
87 Neely, Ralph A ............. 5-16-69 236 Kuhlemeier, August E ... 12- 7-68
87 Edington, Ralph T ......... 5-28-69 237 Lanotti. VirgiL.. .............12-27-68
89 Fippin, Asa D .................12-11-68 237 Carse, Raymond D ......... 4-15-69
91 Bourdon, George H ....... 2- 9-69 241 Hill, Albert... ................... 7-24-68
91 Eastlick, James c _
________ l2-31-68 241 Roepke, Roy ···-···············12-23-68

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

L<>dge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
241 Whitford, Miner E ......... 3-23-69
244 Sjoberg, Joh n G ............. 1- 6-69
2-t6 Hubble, Edgar P ...... ....... 11- 5-68
247 Turner, George W ... ........ 4-25-69
254 Smith, Walter L .............12-23-68
254 Bell, Edmund A ............. 6- 6-69
258 Reeves, Clyde J ............... 8-11-68
260 Davey, John W ............... 8- 8-68
260 Bennett Sr., Henry E. .... 10- 9-68
260 Conn Sr., Edwin J ........... 1- 7-69
260 Lundstrom, Victor !....... 6-14-69
261 Pearson, Bryant R. ... ..... 6- 2-69
262 Headrick, Donald E....... 2- 3-69
264 Madsen, Jerry H ............. 6-12-69
268 Rose, Burton J ................. 9-25-68
269 Wilson, Oscar C ...........-... 10-30-68
272 Ives, Franklin J ............. 8-20-68
272 Merriam, Ralph T ........... 9-14-68
272 Reed, Lee C ..................... 12- 7-68
273 Henderson , Ross H .. ....... 8- 2-68
274 L ewis, Samuel L ............. 10-16-68
275 G ilbert, Lawrence B ..... 3-10-69
283 McDade Jr., Herbert J.. .10- 3-68
288 Dunlap, Willis E ........ ..... 7-23-68
292 Widby, Thomas M ... .·-··· 9-20-68
292 Lloyd, Lor an A. .............. 10- 3-68
293 Smith, Willard................ 5-20-69
:.?93 Bunch, Robert C............. 2- 8-69
294 Rouch, Ruby F ............... 5- 8-69
296 Bauman, Ka rl J ............. 9-24-68
297 Gardner, J ames C ........... 1- 1-69
299 Brown, Richar d M ......... 7-15-68
299 Weast, Charles B .......... .10-27-68
299 Cole, Gilbert .....'............... 1-11-69
300 Crim J r., Arthur P ......... 11-17-68
300 McLennan, Edward F ... 2-11 -69
302 Taylor, Arthur B. .......... 11-1 6-68
305 Cooper, Ray R. .............. 9-1 9-68
305 Bradshaw, Phyllis C... . l· 9-69
306 Stephens, William L ..... 2- 5-69
306 Jillson, LeRoy W . ......... 4-23-69
308 Bicknell, Mont 0 ........... 3- 19-69
309 Scott Jr., Jesse W ........... 11 • 6-68
312 Hultgren, Carl G ........... 6-29-69
314 Moore, Kerby W ............. 12- 8-68
314 L ang, Arthur E ............... 1-10-69
316 Rasmussen , J ohn C .. ..... 9-14-68
317 Ellis, Henry W ... ......... ...11-11 -68
317 Hassler, Floyd W ........... 5-24-69
319 Killingswor th,
321
Harry L . ...................... 11-11-68
Huey, Melvin L. ....... .. ... 11-19-68
321 Bartsch, Willard C ......... 12-23-68
323 Raggio, Charles A. ........ 5-30-69
324 Salisbury, Clarence P ... 10-15-68
324 Wingard, Arthur J ......... 3-25-69
~~~ Johnson, Walter R. ........ 6-27-69
Smith, Lomax ................ 10- 9-68
327 Brandenburg,
Charles T..................... 2-16-69

31

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
329 Zigman, Fernand .......... 10-28-68
330 Sims, George R. .............. 1-17-69
330 Lothian, James .............. 9- 7-68
333 Harvey, Robert C ........... 4-13-69
336 Moore, Leland B ............. 6-13-69
336 Hill, Albert P ................. 6-19-69
337 Ridges, Clifford 0 ......... 12-18-68
337 Polen, Harry H ............... 3-20-69
338 Dom enigoni, Valentine .. 2-22-69
339 Hawkins, James D .........11- 5-68
339 Porter, C. George .......... 4-29-69
343 Christensen,
Christen L ............. ...... 2- 6-69
343 Dodds, Clyde W ............. 6- 10-69
345 Williamson, Aubrey E ... 3-29-69
346 L akin, Egerton D ........... 11-26-68
346 Cuthbertson,
Alexander M.
4-23-69
347 Richm ond, William E... 4- 7-69
347 Reeves, llilard M ........... 7-24-68
348 Culver Jr., Walter L ..... 3-17-69
351 Reves, H ugh .................. 9-25-68
351 Tuttle, Robert P ............. 11- 2-68
352 Bashor, Ernest G .... ......... 3- 1-69
352 Stiff, Carlton R. .............. 8-17-68
353 Gillette, Clayborne M ... 3-21-69
354 Gordon Jr., J ohn ............ 7- 5-68
354 Schaafsma, William T .. _ 8-20-68
354 Wassman Jr., Max.......... 11- 3-68
355 Landi n, Carl 0 ............... 3-1 9-69
356 Saxton Jr. , James G ..... 2- 2-69
361 Kaare, Ove W ................. 3- 7-69
363 Arnold, Robert P ........... 1- 2-69
363 Akey, Donald K. ......... _.. 5- 2-69
363 Smith, Sanborn H ...........12-22-68
366 S wartz, Frederick L ..... 10-13-68
366 Sm ith, Edgar C ............... 10-18-68
366 Robinson. Walter P ....... 2-1 8-69
367 Crump, G uy R. ..............10-25-68
368 Stillman , Charles C ..... 8 -8-68
368 Jarr ett II, William E..... 7- 8-68
373 We lls, Ernest A............ _l l- 9-68
374 Wakeman, William G ... 12-13-68
374 Burbank, A. Lawrence .. 8-16-68
375 H oerchner, Emil R. ...... 10-14-68
375 Diebold, Charles C ......... 10-15-68
375 Haas, R udolph T ........... 7-1 3-68
376 Nagy, Michael G ..........._. 7-13-68
378 Wellington, Richard H. 10-20-68
382 R ichardson, R obert N. 10- 5-68
382 Swan, George F ............. 4- 1-69
332 Porter Jr., George W ..... 6-10-69
382 K irkpatrick, Arthur S. 6-1 8-69
383 Munn, Stanley J .............12-13-68
385 Spaith, Edwin G ............. 8-13-69
387 Gates, S teele A ............. 3-19-69
388 Richards, Vernon C..... 9-26-68
388 Hurley, Thomas ............ 6- 2-69
389 Horrell, Camden R ......... 11- 5-68
390 Powers, Ralph R ..........-- 7- 3-68

32

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Lodge
Date o!
No.
Death
Name
390 Riddle, Frank W ............. 1- 8-69
390 Blank, David J ............... 3-24-69
393 Martin, Byron H ......... .... 4-11-69
394 Wilson, Clarence L ......... 8-25-68
395 Beatty, Carlos G ............. 12-15-68
396 Stowe, Oscar P ............... 7-29-68
397 Wayman, Joseph J ......... 10- 8-68
397 McLay, Arch G ............... 12-25-68
399 Rudolph, Paul .............. 8- 6-68
400 Crellin, John L ............... 9-28-68
400 Lehrbach, Herbert L ..... 1-30-69
400 Hotchkiss, Paul T ........... 4-24-69
401 Rom, Joseph P ............... 2-14-69
402 Brownell, Giles C ...........12-27-68
403 Chas e, Samuel J ............ . 3-10-69
403 Barzee, Lloyd D ............. 3-31-69
404 Reed , Roland J ............... 1- 4-69
404 Jacquay, Roger L ...... .... 6-25-69
406 Porter, Willard T ........... 3-28-69
406 Edgerly, Heman P ......... 6-22-69
407 Fisher, Harry M ............. 9- 4-68
409 Mackenzie , W illiam F ... 7-13-68
414 Breckenridge, P aul G ... 8-10-68
416 Backman, Charles H ..... 10-20-68
417 Thomas, Robert E ........... 7-29-68
418 Dukelow, Thomas H ..... 1-23-69
418 Sawyers, Roy L ........ .....12- 8-68
420 Michel, Carl W ...............12- 7-68
421 Mamath Sr., Eugene L ... 7-27-68
423 Richardson, Sidney T ... 11-25-68
425 Webb, Samuel F ............. 5- 2-69
428 Hallam, Anzel 0 ............. 8-31-68
429 Ramsdell, Fred S ........... 1-13-69
430 Sadler, Thomas F ........... 9-26-68
433 Thatch er, Norman B .....12- 7-68
433 Hus ton, George W ......... 11- 8-68
436 Abbott, Benjamin F ..... .. 3-10-69
437 Hubbard, Paul B ............. 11-10-68
437 Sutton, Herbert B ........... 8-26-68
441 Holbert, Glen C ............. 11-16-68
441 Beck, Edgar B ................. 4-25-69
445 Crandall, Elbert E ......... 11-14-68
446 Adams, Hubert W ...........10-16-68
447 Fossum, Oscar E ............. 1- 2-69
447 Bremner, William H ..... 4- 5-69
448 Martin, Leonard L ......... 4-26-69
449 Resler, Adolf G ............... 12- 3-68
452 Vaccariello, Be rnard .... 9-16-68
452 McMasters, C lyde V ..... 11-24-68
454 Wieland, Roy .................. 12-25-68
454 Sutherland, Arthur R. .. 4-19-69
455 Reed, Norman E ............. 3-29-69
455 Piers on, James H ........... 6-21-69
457 Christian, Arvid H ....... 1-27-69
461 O'Malley, Charles F ..... 10- 5-68
461 Netherton, J ay H ........... 3- 6-69
465 Hills, William W ........... 5-13-69
465 Chapin, Edward L ......... 8-17-68
467 LaForge, Arthur E ......... 9-12-68
467 Ivie, Homer C ........_....... 3-27-69

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
468 Campbell, Charles W ..... 3-20-69
468 Miller, George W ........... 6-16-69
469 Bunch, Boyd R. .............. 2- 8-69
471 Lewis, Paul E ....... ............ 9-16-68
473 Hess, Clau de Y ............... 10-31-68
477 Berry Jr., William .......... 11-14-68
477 Parsons, Casper E ........... 3-13-69
479 Griffel, Charles D ........... 8- 6-68
479 Roy, Harvey L ............... 9- 4-68
479 Smith, Louis T ............... 11-21-68
481 Neubarth, Harry J ......... 6-23-69
482 Grant, Thomas .............. 11-23-68
483 Elliott, Frederick F .. ..... 3-11-69
487 Olson, John A. .......... ...... 12-18-68
488 Densmore, Claude R. .... 5-21-69
489 Mude, Earl L ................... 7-25-68
491 Rundstrom, Charles J ... 5-17-69
494 Williams, Donald T ....... 12-22-68
497 Hoffman, William W ..... 7-11-68
499 Bruno, Lester G ............. 4- 1-69
500 Puccinelli, Victor L ....... 4-26-69
503 Souza, Joseph A ............. 12-22-68
503 Godw in, Johnie C ......... .. 5- 2-69
504 Lesh, Walter .................. 7-27-68
504 Taylor Sr., James E ....... 8-28-68
504 Kirkland Jr., Alva C ..... 6-29-69
505 Brakeman, Charles W ... 7- 5-68
505 Griffin, Herschel E ......... 4- 9-69
506 Todd, Arthur F ............... 6- 8-69
508 Tuttle, Martin A ............. 3-23-69
509 Hancock , Garnett S ....... 11-15-68
510 Young, Ralph L ............. 4-25-69
512 Kirby, Richard A. .......... 1-27-69
512 Blix, Vernon E ................. 6- 4-69
516 Carlson, Wallace R. ...... 8-27-68
519 Hagin, Jesse C ................. 9-25-69
520 Roddan, Harold C ........... 1-30-69
520 Berniker, David ............ 2-14-69
521 Doerr, Oscar R. ..............12- 6-68
522 Atkins, Ernest W ........... 9-11-68
525 Jordan, Rudolph ............ 3- 4-69
529 Stewart Jr.,
Edgar V....................... 5-22-69
530 Koonce, Franklin E ....... 12-24-68
535 Bus h, Archie J ................. 9-28-68
535 Mansell, Darius R ........... 12- 4-68
537 McMillan, John H ........... 1-14-69
537 Karr, Jack H ................... 3-11-69
538 Ennis, Henry D ............... 11- 4-68
541 Ralston, William R. ...... 4-17-69
541 Sawrie, Mark A. ............10- 3-68
542 Soloma.f!: Edward .......... 3- 6-69
542 Mann, william J ............. 3- 1-69
543 Mccurdy, Herbert ........ 7-19-68
543 Connor, Harry D .............10- 9-68
543 Tank, Julius .................... 6-15-69
545 Carlson, John A ............. 5-28-69
547 Bowie Jr., William N ..... 9-25-68
547 Gruben, John H ............... 3-17-69
547 Staff, Harold P ................. 4-12-69

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

L<><fge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
548 Nu rse, Francis ................ 1-28-69
551 Jones, Mynard
8-30-68
552 Hammond, Ch arles IL. 7-11-68
558 E ichhorn, J ulius A .... ..... 10-24-69
560 Wahl, Leo J ..................... 6-17-69
560 Rury, W illiam rL ........... 7-22-68
562 Middleton,
Alexa nder G ............... 7-26-68
562 Jansen, Howar d H.... ..... 4-18-69
570 Mooney, Edw ard J ......... 7-20-68
570 La mber tson, F r ank L ... 2-15-69
570 Gundred , Al vin C .... ....... 5-26-69
571 Jennings, George S ....... .. 6-11-69
576 Smith, Cliffor d !<'.... ......... 7-12-68
578 Edwards. Ju nius H ......... 8- 4-68
578 Griffin, E well M ............. 5-25-69
579 S ten berg, Peter A. ........10-22-68
580 Schrock, Aaron H ........... 4-11-69
581 Healy, Orva l C ....... ........ 3-25-69
581 Tedrow , Louis C ............. 5-21-69
584 Myers, Mars hal H ........... 11-14-68
585 Todd, Oliver M ...............12-20-68
587 Martin, Donald H ........... 7- 2-68
585 Mar tinet, Jules E ........... 1-13-69
587 Holker, Herber t M .... ..... 3-19-69
594 Rutherfor d, Ralph F ..... 11- 2-68
596 Hurd, Gere H................... 6-27-69
599 Welsh, William P ........... 7-14-68
599 Davis, Char les C............. 12- 6-68
599 Da vidson, John S ... ... .... 6- 9-69
599 H ertenstein, Wesley C ... 6-25-69
600 Archer , Harold G ...........10- 9-68
603 Bclyew, Hal A. ~ ........ ......10- 5-68
603 Johnson, Harry .............. 10- 5-68
605 Ed gar, Robert T ...... ....... 3- 5-69
605 Gillespie, Guy T ....... ...... 4- 9-69
607 Clewe tt. Jam es C .......... 5-24-69
607 Beatty, Fred D ......... ........ 11-27-68
609 Fisher , Cecil E ............... 3- 5-69
610 Thom pson, J ames C ....... 1- 4-69
611 Palmer, Fred A. ..............10- 8-68
614 Rodgers, James C .... ....... 8-26-68
616 Finch, Fred T ............ ....... 9- 5-68
616 Carson. William A ......... 2-25-69
617 Bacon, Robert K. ............ 6- 1-69
~~~ Rodgers, E lm er C ... ........ 7-14-68
Strand, Clarence S......... 12-31-68
620 MacDride, George W ..... 2-16-69
~~~ ~~[;~~~ht, GcrbarlfsHF ..... ~- ~-~~
T
n , 1 er
....... - 622
ay 1or, James C ............. 2-23-69
622 Cloyed, Spencer M ......... 5-15-69
626 GMreife, Clifton C ............. 5-23-6!)
627
clntyre. Ru ssell G ....... 10-13-68
629 Freese, W illard B ........... 10-11-68

1

33

Lodge
Date of
No.
Name
Death
629 Cooksey , Robert P ... ...... 11-19-68
630 Blosser , Raymond W .... . 5-19-69
632 Elm, Ralph R. ............... ... 12- 16-68
633 Cooper, Ellwood D ......... 4-21-69
633 deVries, J ohn M .............12- 5-68
636 Peterson, Richard A ....... 11-12-68
636 Warner, George M ... .. .... 1-10-69
636 Morgan, Atwill T ........... 3-29-69
639 Levi, Lou is L ................. .. 6-17-69
639 Lewin, Eugene M .... ...... 10- 4-68
641 Prosser, LeDroit C ......... 9-22-68
645 Fores ter, Clyde W .... .. ... 1-22-69
647 Clements, Johnnie B. .... 3-18-69
653 Pulley, Chester W........... 5- 5-69
654 Feenstra, Herma n L ..... 4-26-69
658 Gross, Norman G ........... 7- 2-68
658 Parle, Ch arles A ............. 5-27-69
661 Mater, Earl V ................... 9-29-68
661 Holmes, Frank F ........ ... 12-26-68
663 Miller, Donald R. ......... ... 1-30-69
666 Parker, Lloyd E .............11- 6-68
666 Barnard, Fran k S .......... 3-24-69
669 Pritch ard , Herbert ... .....10-22-68
670 Walkley, Wellman C .. ... 2- 2-69
674 Goldblatt, How ard C ..... 9- 18-68
675 Taylor , Glenn W ............. 3-20-69
676 Hansen, H olger G ........... 8- 8-68
677 Reinsch, Frank H ........... 4-11-69
678 Maylor, Marc L ............... 3- 8-69
692 Green, Gilbert G ............. 1-11-69
697 Oberlander, Erw in P ..... 4-10-69
699 Gipe, Raymond A. .......... 1- 4-69
702 Parker Jr., George F ..... 7-10-68
703 White David R .......... ... 9-19-68
706 Gill, Cecil F ................. .... 1-28-69
706 Moore, Charles B ........ ... 5-11-69
713 Christensen, Charles W. 5- 2-69
713 La Vo, Earl F ................... 5-13-69
725 McNe il, Harold F ...........11-24-68
725 Davidson, Wayne C ....... 2-18-69
726 Stager, W illiam E ........... 3-24-69
735 Pritz, John C ................... 5- 9-69
752 McNulty, Wayne W....... 4-27-69
758 Wetherby, Loren A. ......11-24-68
766 Hill, Oscar E ................. 9- 8-68
768 Pratt, Ralph .................... 8-12-68
773 Walford, Herbe rt G ....... 10- 5-68
783 Bennett, George W ......... 4-23-69
~8~ ~uiggle, 'i{bert J ........... 7-14-65
9
arsi1 Ar t ur W ............. 9-21-68
797 Dayrit, Segundo S ......... 11-20-68
809 Turner,
Roy E . .......................... 5-1 7-69
811 Crystal, Samuel ............ 2-27-69
812 TerBush, Allan T ........... 3-11-69

At 1:00 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :00 p.m.

34

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNOO N SESSION-M onday, October 13, 1969
At 2:00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful James W. i:-iowell, Master of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. The invocation was delivered by the
Grand Chaplain.

DISTINGUIS HED GUESTS
The following Grand Masters were received with private Grand
Honors, individually welcomed by the Grand Master and escorted to
seats reserved for them:
M:.W.'.JoHN K. YouNG,

Grand Master of Masons in Pennsylvania,
M:.w:.J. Guy SM1TH ,

Grand Master of Masons in Texas,
M:.W.'.PAUL W. SORENSEN,

Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.
M:.w:.FRAN K E. UuN,

Grand Master of Masons in Washington,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35

R.'.W.'.CLARE NCE M. GROSHELL,

Grand Secretary of Utah ,

M:.w: .J. WM. J. SrnDMAN.
Past Grand Master of Washington,

M:.w:.J. H. NoRDAN.
Past Grand Master of British Columbia.
M.".W.'.STANT ON YOUNGBERG,

Past Grand Master of the Philippines,
M.'.W.'.T. F. WEI,

Past Grand Master of China,
R.'.W.'.LEONA RD RAWN,

Past Senior Grand Warden and Grand
Lecturer of Massachusetts ,
R.'.W.'.WILLI AM J. EICHORN,

Past Grand Senior Warden of Japan,
R.".W.' . ALFRED MESSENGER,

Representative of the. Grand Lodge of
California in New York.

M.'.W.'.WILL IAM L. GOBIN,

Grand Master of Masons in Colorado.
M:.w:.JAME s A. MoRRisoN,

Grand Master of Masons in Nevada,
M:.W:.RussE LL C. WALKER,

Grand Master of Masons in Idaho,
M .'.W.'.BLAINE M. SIMONS,

RESPONSES BY DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

Various distinguished guests were called on by the Grand Master to
address the members of Grand Lodge during the course of the Annual
Communication. They expressed their appreciation for the fraternal welcome accorded them and each presented thoughtful Masonic remarks.
Some punctuated their comments with applicable humorous anecdotes.

Grand Master of Masons in Utah ,
M .' .W.'.HARRY E. WIMER,

Grand Ma ster of Masons in Wyoming,
M.'.W.'.THOM AS D. HENDERSON ,

Grand Master of Masons in Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were received with public Grand
Honors, welcomed by the Grand Master and escorted to seats reserved
for them :
R.'.W.'.CLARE NCE E. SPORTSMAN,

Deputy Grand Master of Montana,
R.' .W.' .NICHOLAS MussALLEM,

Deputy Grand Master of British Columbia,
M:.w:.RoYA L D. CROWELL,

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Nevada,
V.'.W.'.EDWA RD L. BENNETT,
Grand Secretary of Washington,

YOUTH GROUP REPRESENTATIV ES

At the close of the Tues day morning session Grand Lodge was
opened to visiting guests and ladies to receive the following youth group
representatives :
Phyllis Terry. Grand Honored Queen,
International Order of Job's Daughters,
Judylynn Horner, Grand Worthy Advisor,
International Order of Rainbow for Girls,
Scott D. Alevy, Senior Councilor,
Southern California DeMolay Association.
Each of them addressed Grand Lodge and by their inspiring addresses
reaffirmed our confidence in the Masonically related youth of today. The
Grand Marshal escorted them from Grand Lodge as they were accorded
a standing ovation.

36

PROCEEDING S OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER' S MESSAGE

Amaran~h. M~s. Rose P . Jebia, Queen of Macatam Temple, Daughters
of the Nile: Hildred M. Zell, Grand Officer, White Shrine of Jerusalem;
Mrs. Beatrice Atwood, Grand Guardian and Fay Bates, Associate Grand
Guardian of.the International Order of Job's Daughters; Don Worsham,
Grand Adv1s~ry ~oard of Rainbow for Girls; and Homer Rathbun,
Southern Cal1for:i1a Executive Officer for DeMolay. Music for this
memorable occasion was provided by a seventy-eig ht piece symphony
orchestra composed entirely of members of the Craft or affiliated bod·e
and directed by Je~ry Rosen, Past Master of Silver Trowel Lodge No~
4JS. The Al ~ala1kah Chanters and the choir from the church of our
Grand Chaplain, Dr. Kenneth E. Carlson, combined to render beautiful
vocal numbe~s. More entertainme nt was provided by Arlene Wells and
Harry Babbitt and the hearts of the entire audience quickened with
pride when fifty-eight DeMolay boys, all Master Councilors, presented
the flag of our count~y. Over three thousand members of our youth
groups, DeMola~, Rambow Girls and Job's Daughters, were in attend ance. all dressed m the costume of their Order; a most inspiring sight.
The Westerners Masonic Club at 20th Century Fox Studios and
the stage crew of Al Malaikah Temple worked Jong hours on the multitude of technical details and arrangemen ts. Worshipful "Lon" Fishback, Inspector of the 556th Masonic District, originated the idea of th
reception and together .with all of the Inspectors of the Fifth Division~
nurtured and brought ~t to fruition. He also performed admirably as
the Master of Ceremomes. The entire program was coordinated through
· tan t
supervision of Burton Meyer. Jr .. A SSIS
and under the excellent
.
Gran d Le cturer o f D1vis.ion Five. Almos t all of the Grand Lodge Officers
were present and the climax of this spiritually moving and never-to-be forgotten event occurred at the conclusion of the program. As the arena
was darkened. the o~~?estr~ played and the choir sang "The Battle
Hymn of the Republic while giant spotlights converged their streams
letter "G" suspended from the ceili'ng . Th'1s was one
of light on ·a huge
.
M
f Cal'f
1 orma asonry s finest hours. In addition to those named above
o
there were ~any oth_ers who worked long and diligently to insure th~
success of. th_1s reception, and to all of them, I wish to express my gratef ul appreciation.

On Friday, October 14, 1966 you, my Brethren, representing all the
Masons in California and Hawaii designated me to represent you in
this great Grand Lodge by electing me to the station of Junior Grand
Warden. One year later on Friday, October 13, 1967 you continued
your mandate by electing me Deputy Grand Master and last October
18th you placed in my hands the highest honor and the greatest responsibility which is in your power to grant to any man, Grand Master of
Masons in C alifornia and Hawaii. On that day of installation one year
ago, which will live forever in my memory, I prayed that our Supreme
Grand Master would favor me with divine guidance and assistance
and that He would never let me forget that I represented all the Masons
in our jurisdiction.
As your Grand Master and your chief executive officer, you have
specifically charged me to exercise a general and careful supervision
over the Craft and see that the Constitution and regulations of the
Grand Lodge are strictly maintained, supported and obeyed.
In reporting to you the activities of your Grand Master during the
past year, I will echo the comments of my predecessor s, "It has been
a most active year."
The itinerary attached to this message chronicles the travels and
events in which the Grand Master or others representing him, participated. There were many outstanding Masonic events during the year
and though time and space prevent the delineation of all of them, the
following are deserving of special recognition.
ALL MASONIC FAMILY RECEPTION FOR THE GRAND MASTER

On Sunday, November 17, 1968, at 2:00 p.m. in the Los Angeles
Sports Arena, climaxing two years of preparation, the Inspectors of the
Fifth Division hosted a reception for the Grand Master unlike any
ever held before. They named it "The First All M asonic Family Reception for the Grand Master" and invited all the affiliated and concordant
bodies to participate. Among the more than thirteen thousand in attendance, the following distinguishe d members of the Masonic family paid
their respects to the office of the Grand Master and were most generous
with their kind remarks. Henry C. Clausen. Past Grand M aster of the
Grand Lodge of California and Deputy Grand Commander of the
Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction; Lovell E.
Spurgeon, Grand Commander , Knights Templar; J. W. Combes, Grand
High Priest, Royal Arch Masons; Arthur B. Ledbetter, Illustrious Grand
Master of the Grand Council, Royal and Select Masters; Leo E. Anderson, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of C alifornia and Potentate
of Al Malaikah Shrine Temple; Mrs. Florence Dunn, Worthy Grand
Matron and Richard T. Brassell, Jr.. Worthy Grand Patron, Order of
the Eastern Star; Mrs. Mary Lethine, Grand Royal Matron, Order of

37

V1s1T TO THE GRAND LoDGE OP INDIA
In 1961 Mrs. Crigler (Dena) and I, accompanie d by our daughter
Karen, traveled to India. While there we had the privilege and P Ieasure
d' .
of me f
e mg many 1stmguished members of the Craft who were in th e
::oc.:ss of for~ing the Grand Lodge of India. I was delighted on returnome to discover that I had been appointed the Grand Representathe Grand Lo.dge of India near the Grand Lodge of California.
She
0
~ Y aft~r ~ss~mmg the office of Grand Master last October, I
· · t
ttceived an mv1tatton to visit the Grand Lodge of Indi'a · My d ec1s1on
o
llCCept th· k · d If
benefits
fringe
the
of
one
because
generated
was
er
o
in
is

ti: ot

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

of having a daughter who is an airline stewardess is that the parents
receive greatly reduced fares. We availed ourselves of this unusual
opportun~ty and Mrs. Crigler and I left Los Angeles on December 30,
1968, flymg over the polar route on Scandinavian Airlines to Copenhagen. The connecting Hight took us to Zurich where we were delayed
at the airport for six hours because of a severe snowstorm. We continued on to New Delhi and then to Madras. a coastal city on the
southeastern tip of India where the Grand Festival Communication of
the Grand Lodge of India was held in Rajaji Hall. We were warmly and
~raciously received during our stay in this beautiful city whose climate
ts comparable to our city of San Diego.
The Grand Lodge of India was opened in a highly dignified and
colorful manner by Most Worshipful Bhogilal C. Shah, the Grand
Master, who then directed a special escort composed of the Deputy
Grand Master, the four Regional Grand Masters, the Deputy Grand
Directors of Ceremonies, the President of the Board of General Purposes, the Grand Secretary, the Grand Deacons and the two Assistant
Grand Directors of Ceremonies, to escort your Grand Master in to the
Grand Lodge. I was accorded a warm and enthusiastic reception and
was highly honored by being seated in the East on the right of the
Grand Master. Acting on your behalf. I presented to the Grand Lodge
of India, a beautiful baton which had been handcrafted in California
by one of our members. The workmanship on this baton was outstanding
and reflected the many hours of painstaking labor necessary to the
accomplishment. The Brother who performed this work of art wished
to remain anonymous but a letter thanking him for the unselfish donation of his remarkable talents was sent to him by your Grand Master.
During our brief stay, our constant guide and host was Sir Harold,
Lieutenant General Williams, former Deputy Grand Master and presently the Regional Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Northern
India. We are indebted to him for his many acts of kindness. The Grand
Lodge of India concluded its communication with the election and installation to the office of Grand Master of Most Worshipful M. S. Thacker.
Brother Thacker is a genial and learned man and has been awarded the
highest distinction and honor that can be conferred by the government
of India, the title of Padma Bhushan. He and his charming wife were
most gracious to us as were the Maharajah of Faridkot, the newly
installed Assistant Grand Master, and Z. R. Irani, the Senior Grand
Warden. Their hospitality and friendship will remain long in our hearts.
The Grand Lodge of India has had a steady growth because of the inspiration and guidance of its leaders. Under Professor Thacker, it
should continue to be a strong force for moral good. He wished me to
convey to you, my Brethren, the sincere good wishes and warm fraternal
greetings of all your Brethren in India. I left India convinced that the
bonds of fraternal friendship had been further strengthened by our
visit.

CONCORDANT AND AFFILIATED BODIES

39

Continuing the program initiated by my predecessor in this office an
1nvitation was extended to the leaders of all the M asonic prerequisite
bodies to attend a meeting for the purpose of mutual discussion of the
programs and activities of Masonry in this jurisdiction. The meeting was
held at the Los Angeles Athletic Club on February I, 1969 and present
were representatives from the York Rite Bodies, the Scottish Rite Bodies
and the seven Shrine Temples in California. Present in addition to your
Grand Master were the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, and the Grand Secretary.
Discussions were held on our Public Schools Week program as well
as our observance of Constitution Month and the activities of our youth
orders. All participated enthusiastically and their suggestions and assistance have been very helpful in implementing and expanding the
work of these G rand Lodge programs. They expressed their desire to
cooperate fully with the Grand Lodge in all things Masonic and their
cooperation has been instantaneous and wholehearted. In the few instances where a violation of our M asonic law occurred. remedial action
was instantly taken by the head of the organization when notified by
the Grand Master.
This willingness to work together in true peace and harmony was
nobly demonstrated when the Grand Lodge of California was invited
to lay the cornerstone of the new addition to the Shriners ' Hospital for
Crippled Children in San Francisco, using the Ritual which has been
used by the Fraternity for hundreds of years and which has been
adopted by this Grand Lodge as the ritual of the cornerstone ceremony.
The event was held on June 1. 1969 with a large crowd in attendance.
The Imperial Potentate and other members of the D ivan were pres ent
and were lavish in their praise of our performance of the cornerstone
ceremony. The success of the program was in a large measure, attributable to the preparation, the physical arrangements and the coordination
of the entire program by the Assistant Grand Lecturer of D ivision Three,
Worshipful Ulysses G. Patropulos.
MASONIC HOM ES

Once again, my Brethren, you, like your predecessors, have given
unselflshly of your means to meet the challenge of s upporting our
Masonic Homes. Your expression of affection for your less fortunate
Brethren and their families resulted in contributions to the Endowment
Fund of $886.120.14. This figure represents an increase of more than
$22,000.00 over the previous year.
I know that you join me in a prayer of gra titude to our Supreme
Grand ~faster that He has allowed us this privilege of practicing one of
our basic tenets. Brotherly Love. I commend the Chairman, Morris C.
Guss and all the members of the Endowment Board for their untiring

40

41

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

efforts. Their labors can best be appreciated when we realize that they
were able to attain this magnificent achievement while reducing committee expenditures from $21.000.00 last year to approximately $8.000.00
this year, a savings to this Grand Lodge of $13,000.00.
This year, as in prior years, the Trustees of the Homes have completed an outstanding year of service. Due to the illness of Past Grand
Master Alfred F. Breslauer, the President of the Board of Trustees,
their report will be presented by the Vice President of the Board, Very
Worshipful Donald G. Campbell. Most Worshipful Alfred F. Breslauer,
having served the maximum tenure will mark the end of his long and
distinguished service to our Masonic Homes. As Grand Master, Brother
Breslauer placed special emphasis on the Master Mason, designating
his year as "the year of the Master Mason." In paying tribute to this
illustrious Brother who has given so much of his time, his talents and his
energy to this Grand Lodge, we can honor him best by saying he is
truly, in fact as well as in name, a Master Mason.
June 14, 1969 was an important day for our Masonic Homes because
it marked the beginning of our redevelopment of the Childrens' Home
at Covina. As Grand Master, and representing all of you. it was my
pleasant duty to break ground for the start of construction. There were
more than 2500 in attendance at this heartwarming event. I thought it
would be appropriate at the groundbreaking ceremony to have some
resident of our Childrens' Home represent all of the children and have
a share with me in the program. I called on and was ably assisted in turning the first spade of earth by Dennis Cox, a graduate of Royal Oak
High School and a resident of our Covina Home the past fourteen years.
He added much to the event as did the Silver Trowel Lodge Masonic
Orchestra. More complete details of this significant and unforgettable
day will be included in the report of the Trustees.

rial. The "barge" turned out to be a luxurious yacht which I was told
was used only on rare occasions for VIP's such as Presidents Kennedy,
Johnson and Nixon. In placing a wreath on the U .S.S. Arizona, I did
so in the knowledge that the Masons in California and Hawaii would
be ever grateful to those men who had made the ultimate sacrifice in
service to their country. The solemnity of the occasion was heightened
as we viewed the Battleship New Jersey just returning from Vietnam; a
dramatic reminder that others are still giving their lives for all of us.
I attended a luncheon hosted by the heads of the Scottish Rite, York
Rite, Shrine and Red Cross of Constantine and enjoyed discussing
with them, Masonry on the Islands and on the Mainland.
On Saturday, July 12th. I opened Grand Lodge in the Temple
of Schofield Lodge No. 443 for the purpose of dedicating their beautiful
new Temple. Participating in this ceremony were the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, the Grand Marshal and the Grand Tiler. They performed admirably and lent much dignity to our time honored ritual. The
Brethren of Schofield Lodge have labored well and have constructed an
edifice which is not only an ornament to the community but is a credit to
the Fraternity as well. Their zeal and enthusiasm is an outstanding
example of what can be accomplished by members of our Fraternity
working together in pursuit of a common goal.
Sunday, July 13th, we had the spiritually invigorating experience
of worshipping at Kawaiahao church where we were introduced to the
congregation by the Rector, Dr. Akaka, a remarkable man of the cloth,
who delivered an inspirational message. After the service we visited the
mission house on the church grounds and discovered on a wall, a parchment detailing the line of march and formation of the procession for the
fune.ral of King David Kalakaua. We noted with pride that at the king 's
request. our Fraternity had a prominent part in the funeral ceremony
of this distinguished Mason, one of the most beloved of the kings of
Hawaii.
We also visited the Lodges on the islands of Kauai, Maui and
Hawaii. In each instance we were enthusiastically and warmly greeted
by the officers and members of the Lodge. I was officially received in
each Lodge according to our ritual and enjoyed the pleasure of Masonic
fellowship with these dedicated Masons.
In all meetings and discussions with the members of the Craft in
Hawaii, I solicited their opinions and views as to what progress. if any.
had been made as to the feasibility and desire of the Brethren of Hawaii
to form a Grand Lodge of H awaii. From the information given me, it is
evident that a large percentage of the brethren desire more ti me to
acquire and assimilate additional information. Unfortunately. a few
brethren have decided on precipitating action and have presented resolutions to form a Grand Lodge of Hawaii. These resolutions were presented at the October Stated Meetings of Waikiki Lodge No. 774 and

HAWAIIAN VISITATION

One of the most pleasant undertakings of the Grand Master is to
make an official visit to the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands. Although
personal business had taken me to the islands on numerous previous
occasions at which I was greeted in the traditional Aloha spirit, my visit
in July as the Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii surpassed all previous experiences. From the moment of our arrival to the
time of our departure, Mrs. Crigler and I were treated with the utmost
kindness and consideration. Numerous events were scheduled for our
pleasure and our official tour of duty began when we met with the officers
and members of all seven of the Lodges on the Island of Oahu. All were
most gracious and generous in looking after our comfort.
I was privileged to lay a wreath at the tomb of the Unknown Soldier
in the Punchbowl National Cemetery and also was accorded the honor
of riding in the Admiral's barge on a visit to the U.S.S. Arizona Memo-

42

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Koolau Lodge No. 801. The other eight lodges in Hawaii have indicated
that they desire further consultations with the Hawaiian Advisory Committee and I have a sked them to meet with this committee tomorrow
afternoon.
I am convinced that our good brethren in Hawaii need the benefit of
unbiased consultants now more than ever before.

It has long been my belief that a more e~ective °:1ethod was _n eeded
f transmitting to the cons tituent Lodges mformat1on concernmg the
orrk and programs of the various committees of Grand Lodge. There'fo~e. I caused to be held in each of the six divis~ons of 0~1r_ j~risdiction, a
eeting at which the officers of each Lodge m the D1v1s1on w ere reDl ested to attend. The Chairman or a representative from each of the
tommittees on Ritua l. Endowment Board, Public Schools, Constitu tion
Observance, Lodge Financing. Masonic Education and Youth O rd ers
attended and presented a report on his committee's ac tivities and p rograms. These meetings met with enthusiastic a cceptance. The atte ndance
at Sa n Francisco w as approximately 350. There were 400 at Oakland ,
250 at Fresno, 650 at Sacramento, 750 at Los Angeles and 850 at Long
Beach. At the conclusion of the committee reports , questions were a sked
(iy the officers from the floor and answ ered by the committeemen. I t was
evident that the officers of our Lodges were eager to acquire more
Masonic knowledge and information. All expressed a desire to have the
meetings repeated , preferably at the beginning of each year.
These meetings were under the supervision of the Assistant Grand
Lecturer of each Division, a id ed and a ssisted by the Inspectors of each
District. As usual. they performed their duties in the exempla ry manner
o which we have become accustomed , and to them should be given the
redit for the outstanding success of these programs.
In addition to the above events , I scheduled meetings in Sacramento,
5anta Ana , Riverside, Fresno, Bakersfield, Oakland. Los Angeles, Chula
Vista. San Francisco, San Jose and Redding to which I invited all the
Master Masons who had received their Third Degree during the yea r
1968. In each meeting. the Grand Master spoke for approximately
forty-five minutes ex plaining the relationship between the Grand Lodge
and the constituent Lodge and delineating the activities and programs
of the various committees of Grand Lodge. I also gave them a brie f
history of Masonry in our jurisdiction and advised them as to their
responsibilities and duties to their Lodge and to their Brethren in Freemasonry . Their zeal fo r Masonic information fa r exceeded my e xpectations. In many ins tances. the meetings were prolonged for an additional
hour or more by questions directed to the Grand M Llster. I fo und
these informal meetings with the newly raised Master M asons to be
both enlightening and stimulating a nd I heartily recommend it to my
successor as a most delightful and rewarding exp erience.

RECOMMENDATION

No. 1

I, therefore, recommend that the incoming Grand Master continue
the Hawaiian Advisory Committee to serve as unbiased consultants to
the Lodges of Hawaii in order that the best interest of Freemasonry and
all Masons in the Islands be served.
VISITS TO OTHER JURISDICTIONS

As has been the custom in previous years, your Grand Master.
together with the other progressive elective Grand Lodge Officers, had
the privilege of visiting and representing you at other Grand J urisdic:
tions. My travels took me to Washington, D.C. for the Grand Masters
Conference and, in a ddition to the Grand Lodge of India, to the Annual Communications of the Grand Lodges of Nevada and Utah. I also
received and accepted an invitation to attend the Fiftieth Anniversary
session of the Supreme Council of DeMolay held in Kansas City. I
also made a fraternal visit to the Grand Lodge of Baja California at the
invitation of Most Worshipful Francisco Lopez Guttierez. the Grand
Master.
The Deputy Grand Master was present at the Grand Masters' Conference in Washington, D.C., and at the Annual Communications of the
Grand Lodges of Oregon and Montana.
.
The Senior Grand Warden visited the Grand Lodges of Washington and British Columbia.
The Junior Grand Warden attended the Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of Arizona and the Grand Secretary attended the
Communication of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
In every instance we were treated with the utmost kindness and
consideration.
Invitations w ere received from other Grand Jurisdictions to attend
their communications but previous commitments made acceptance impossible. Letters of regret and best wis hes for a fruitful and successful
communication were sent in each instance.

43

MASONIC KNOWLEDGE AND EDU CATION

C o DE R EVISION

In response to Grand Master Hopp's recommenda tion No. 1 which
was adopted by this Grand Lodge, I appointed a special committee to
study the question of how best to implement the communication of the
fundamentals of Freemasonry to every Master Mason. Their report
will be given later in this communication.

In 1967 this Grand Lodge adopted Grand Master Dayton's recommendation No. 7 amended as follows:
1. That the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee
on Code Revision and that it be directed to prepare a new revised Code
for the consideration of the Grand Lodge.

45

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

2. That the special committee be specifkally authorized to propose
~uch substantive changes in the law as it may consider to be in the best
~nterest of the Craft; such changes being clearly identified as such in
rts report.
3. That in the process of rewriting. the special committee be directed
to thoroughly consider the advisability of eliminating all annotations
and the incorporation of their substance in the various Code sections.
The work of this special committee was not completed and thus was
not presented for consideration at last year's communication . Grand
Master Hopp's recommendatio n No. 6 which was adopted by Grand
Lodge requested that this important work be continued. Accordingly, I
a~~ointed six outstanding members of the Craft to continue this prod1g1ous task. They have been diligent in their labors and have informed
me that a large proportion of the work is substantially completed and
that barring unforeseen obstacles, the monumental assignment should
be concluded by spring of next year and ready for submission to the
Craft.

The intended recipient was delighted at the prospect of rece1vmg his
button and with the exception of his broken hip, was in fairly good
health. The button was forwarded to the Inspector by the Grand Secretary on May 21. 1969. On May 19, 1969 prior to the presentation date
but subsequent to his eligibility date, the Brother suffered a fatal stroke
and on May 30, 1969. died. The daughter has asked for the button.
Under our law, as presently constituted , I had to deny her request.
Under Section 150 j of the California Masonic Code, Grand Master
Warren ruled and Grand Lodge concurred that "the fifty-year button
may not be presented posthumously to the family." In 1957, Grand
Lodge approved the ruling of Grand Master L. Harold Anderson that
the "application for a fifty-year button should not be made where the
Brother is confined to a state hospital and has little contact with reality
since the ceremony would have no meaning." My Brethren, there have
been many instances where the recipient of a flfty-year button has passed
away shortly after the presentation. In some cases. within hours; in
others, within a few days or weeks. Some recipients. for personal reasons,
have had their fifty-year buttons mailed to them at their request, not
wishing to have a presentation ceremony. It is conceivable and probable
that in this latter category some may never have received or seen the
button personally. It, therefore, seems inconsistent to me that one
Brother can receive his button on the day of eligibility, pass to his eternal
reward shortly thereafter with his heirs retaining possession of the
button to do with as they please, while another Brother's family or
heirs are denied the same consideration because the Brother desired a
presentation ceremony but died before the event could become a reality.
It would seem to be discriminatory and not in keeping with our practice
of fair and equal treatment for all.

RECOMMENDAT ION No. 2

I'. therefo~e, recommend that the incoming Grand Master appoint a
special committee whose duty and responsibility it will be to continue
~o prepare a new. revised Code for the consideration of the Grand Lodge
m accordance with the mandate of Grand Lodge as outlined in Grand
Masters Dayton's recommendatio n No. 7 (amended) and Grand
Master Hopp's recommendatio n No. 6.
FIFTY YEAR VETERAN PINS

At. the close of last year's communication , I appointed a special
committee to study the entire problem of the material and the design of
~he flfty-!'ear button, conforming to t~e direction of Grand Lodge in
its adoption of Grand Master Hopp s recommendatio n No. 8. The
committee has done an excellent job and I am sure that you will be
pleased with their report and recommendatio ns which will be submitted
for your approval at this communication.
I recently received a request from an Inspector for direction and
guidance, in answering a letter he had received concerning a fifty-year
veteran's button. The facts are as follows. A Brother was eligible to
receive his fifty-year button on May 5, 1969. On that date he was
a pa tient in the Veterans' Home at Yountville, having suffered a broken
hip. The Veterans' Home was a considerable distance from the Brother's
Lodge and the Secretary of the Lodge corresponded with and endeavored to have the button presented by the Inspector of the district
nearest to the Veterans' Home. This Inspector paid a visit to the
hospital on May 1, J 969, and made arrangements for the presentation.

RECOMMENDAT ION No. 3

I. therefore, recommend that annotations j and I under Section l 50
of the California Masonic Code be repealed and that it be the policy
of this Grand Lodge to provide upon request, a fifty-year button to the
family or heirs of a deceased Brother, provided the Brother was eligible
for but had not received such a button prior to his death.
SOJOURNER RELIEF AND BLOOD BANKS

Implementing Grand Master Hopp's recommendatio n No. 2. I appointed a special committee to continue the study of Sojourner Relief
and the entire Board of Relief system. The committee has devoted long
hours to the project. They have met and counseled with the heads of
various blood banks throughout the jurisdiction as well as making an
exhaustive study of our relief problems. I was invited and attended
three such meetings; one in San Francisco, one in Los Angeles, and one
in Honolulu. I was impressed with the dedication and sincerity of pur~

47

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

pose of the members of this committee. Their extensive report of the
many and varied problems and the multiple ramifications incidental
thereto, merit your utmost attention and consideration.

No. 442 in April of 1968 and acting on behalf of the Grand Master,
·nform that Lodge of the arrest of its charter. At the last Annual Com~unication. Grand Lodge affirmed and approved the action of Grand
Master Hopp in suspending the charter of Blackmer Lodge and adopted
bis recommendation that "the suspension of the charter be continued
until such time as the incoming Grand Master shall determine that
the Lodge and its officers are qualified to have their charter restored or
until this Grand Lodge on his recommendation shall permanently revoke
it."
I do not believe it necessary to recall the many and varied problems
which caused the suspension of the charter other than to state that the
task confronting the officers and members of Blackmer Lodge since the
suspension has not been an easy one. They labored long and diligently
under the wise counsel and guidance of Inspectors John Peterson and
John Taylor in endeavoring to make the l~ng dim~ back to M~so~ic
responsibility. Countless hours were spent m coachmg and qualifymg
the officers in the ritual and the law of our Grand Lodge. Some of the
members despaired and demitted to other lodges while others communicated directly to the Grand Mnster asking for help and offering
their services in any capacity. Happily the latter group were in the
majority and by hard work and perseverance. convinced their lnspect~r
that they had rcconc;Jed their difficulties both ritualistically and Masomcally. On May 27, 1969, I journeyed to San Diego and witnessed the
exemplification of the ritual of the Denrees by the officers of Blackmer
Lodge, conducted by the Assistant Grand Lecturer of Division Six.
Worshipful William H. Price. The work performed was in keeping
with our standards of proficiency ;ind the enthusiasm and brotherly
love exhibited by the members present was sincere and hearty. It '\vas
evident to your Grand Master that these Brethren had earned the
right to enjoy again the benefits of Masonic fellowship as well as assume its burdens and responsibilities.
Thus, on June 12. 1969. I removed the suspension of the charter of
Blackmer Lodge No. 442 using the gavel which was given to me by
Blackmer Lodge on that fateful night the year previous when their
charter was suspended. At the conclusion of this meaningful evening I
returned the gavel to the Master of the Lodge requesting that he use
it at all meetings of the Lodge and bring it to Grand Lodge. In recognition of their steadfastness, their courage and their zeal. I have asked
Worshipful Earle Stone, Master of Blackmer Lodge No. 442, to raise
Grand Lodge tomorrow morning using this gavel which will always
have a special significance for Blackmer Lodge as well as your Grand
Master.

46

BOARD OP CONTROL

In order to assist the special committee on study of Sojourner Relief
and the Board of Relief system. I requested the Board of Control to
make a complete in-depth study of existing operations, practices and
procedures of all Boards of Relief. A detailed and comprehensive survey
was undertaken by the Board of Control. After reviewing the accumulated information, it was apparent that in order to properly assess our
problems and endeavor to solve them, it would be necessary to request
strict compliance of our laws and regulations from all Boards of Relief.
Only then could it be ascertained if our laws and regulations needed to
be changed or modified to meet our Masonic responsibility and commitments. At my request, the Board of Control endeavored to secure
compliance with our law from all Boards of Relief. In most instances,
their task was made easier by the wholehearted cooperation of the
Brethren in charge. On a few occasions when friendly persuasion failed,
sterner measures were needed. The Board of Control will present a
complete report to you and I wish to commend personally, each of the
members thereof for the time, the patience and the perseverance expended by them in discharging their duties.
FrLM FESTIVAL

Shortly after assuming the office of Grand Master last October 13,
1968, I received numerous telephone calls from members of the Craft
complaining about the type o.f fil1:1s then bein~ shown by the San Fr~n­
cisco International Film Festival m our beautiful Temple, and assertmg
that liquor was also being served on the premises. Investigation b~ your
Grand Master and others disclosed that there was substance m the
allegations. After numerous consultations between the Board of Trustees
of the Memorial Temple and the management of the Film Festival, we
have executed an agreement whereby the Film Festival will terminate
their occupancy of our Temple at the conclusion of this year's Film
Festival and relinquish any and all rights which they may have had to
future dates. I commend the Board of Trustees for their fortitude and
outstanding exemplification of our Masonic principles in the pursuit
of truth and morality.
BLACKMER LoDGI!:

On June 12th of this year, one of the most emotional and spiritually
rewarding events experienced by your Grand Master occurred in San
Diego.
As Deputy Grand Master, I was ordered to visit Blackmer Lodge

RELIEF TO THE GRAND LODGE OF MtSS!SS!PPJ

In September of this year, Hurricane Camille struck the state of

48

PROCEED INGS OP THE

Mississip pi causing extensiv e damage to property and the loss of many
lives. A call for help and assistanc e came from the Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of Mississip pi. I responde d on behalf of Grand
Lodge by authorizi ng the transmit tal to the Grand Master of t~e
Grand Lodge of Mississip pi the sum of $500.00 from the Grand Mast~r s
relief fund. expressin g our regrets at their misfortu ne and offering
further assistanc e, if needed.
DECISION S

During the interim between Annual Communic~tions. t~e Grand
Master receives many requests for answers to specific question s concerning our laws and regulatio ns. In most instances th: matter was ~e­
ferred to the Inspecto r of the District who, as the official represen tative
of the Grand Master, was able to assist the Brother in locating the
answer in our Californ ia Masonic Code. I am convinced that most of
these inquiries will be terminat ed when our revised California. Masonic
Code is available to the members of the Craft. On a relatively few
occasions when a situation was not covered by our code, a decision
by the Grand Master was made. Accordin g to our law, the decisions
of the Grand Master must be approved by Grand Lodge and they are
listed herewith for your consider ation and action.
DEc1s10N No. 1

I was asked if it would be proper for a Lodge to rent its facilities
to a clandesti ne lodge and also if it would be permissible for a Lodge to
rent a lodge facility from a clandesti ne lodge. The answer to both
question s is NO. It is not permissible for a Lodge to rent its hall to or rent
J hall from a clandesti ne lodge or organiza tion
which purports to be
Masonic in characte r. To permit the use of the same Masonic hall by
Loth a regular Lodge and a clandesti ne lodge might well be interpret ed
by those both in and out of the Craft as recognition o~ Ma~onic inte:course, clearly proscribe d by Section 319 of the Californ ia Masomc
Code.
DECISION No. 2
A Lodge was having financial problems and stated they ':'~re no
longer able to maintain or retain their hall. They as~ed permission to
form a commun ity hall associati on which would be incorpor ated as a
non-profit corporati on. The Lodge proposed to sell the hall to the nonprofit corporat ion for one dollar and then become a tenant. I held that
it would be illegal to sell the property to an association for one dollar.
It would be a gift of its property for the benefit of the associati on if
the reasonab le market value exceeded one dollar and a Lodge may not
thus dispose of an asset. It seemed to me that if the p:oposed c~m­
munity hall associati on could operate successfu lly by rentmg the build-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

49

ing to various organiza tions. the Lodge could do the same and still
retain control of its property .
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

For almost fifty years, our Grand Lodge has actively supporte d our
public schools by observin g Public Schools Week througho ut the jurisdiction. The members of the Craft have been industrio us and energetic .
We have earned and are proud of our reputatio n of being the very
foundation and support of our public schools. Our labors have been
)avishly praised and recogniz ed by school administ rators and teachers
as being most helpful and productive.
The following letter from Donald C. Ziehl. District Superint endent
of the La Canada Unified School District addresse d to Mr. Art M iller.
a member of La Canada Lodge No. 739 and chairman of the public
schools week program in La Canada is a shining example.
"Dear Mr. Miller,
May 1 commend you and the organiza tion you so ably represen t
for the outstand ing public schools week brochure prepared for distribution to the La Canada Unified School District students and
parents. During the past five years (the length of my experien ce
here in La Canada) . I have been impresse d with the quality of
cooperation exhibited by the men who represen t the local Masonic
Lodge. I will look forward to continue d fine working relations hips
that have a direct effect upon improving the La Canada Unified
School District's instructi onal program .
Sincerely,
Donald C. Ziehl"
But, my Brethren , as great as have been our accomplishments, we
are faced today with a monume ntal challeng e. the preserva tion of our
public school system. Though we can point with pride to our public
school facilities and system as the finest in the land . we must also bear
the shame of the permissiveness which we have allowed to permeate
the actions of those in authority. Our schools have been and are now
being burned, ransacke d and ravished . But far worse than this destruction of our physical propertie s is the cancerou s infection of nonttsponsibility, disloyalt y and disrespec t being injected into the minds
and hearts of our youth by misinformed, misguided and malevole nt
teachers and faculty members. Here is where the battle must be joined.
This is the area where the full force of Masonic effort must be directed .
More than just visiting our schools on a once a year basis, we must
now become actively concerne d in the day to day educatio n of our
children. We must look on the inside of every classroom and know what
type of teachers we have and what they are teaching our youth. This

so

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

is not a task for Grand Lodge or the constituent Lodges. It requires the
labor of you and me as individuals. No one will undertake to do t~e
job for us - but an army of 235,000 Masons, augmented by their
wives and families, can lead the way and be the vanguard of an overwhelming force to restore our public schools to their rightful pos.ition
of institutions of learning where the diffusion of knowledge enriches
and enlightens all mankind.

ly expressed to him the thanks and appreciation of all the Brethren in
California and Hawaii for his unselfish devotion to the principles of
our great Fraternity. I am certain that you join me in expressing our
gratitude to our Senior Grand Steward for his aid and assistance.

BROTHERLY LovE AND RELIEF

Two extraordinary events exemplifying the Masonic principles of
brotherly love and relief occurred in our jurisdiction which merit our
applause and approbation. In January. heavy and continued rains caused
severe damage and flooding in the community of Santa Paula. Many
families lost their homes and most of their possessions. Some were
stranded without food . shelter or clothing. The officers and members
of Santa Paula Lodge No. 291 opened their temple and proceeded to
care for and feed forty~eight refugees, men, women and children who
had been driven from their homes; a stirring testimonial of Masons
assuming their obligation toward their fellowmen.
On your behalf I sent a letter of commendation to the Masons of
Santa Paula Lodge No. 291 for their inspirational action.
In the summer of 1 968, seven teenage youths from California
journeyed thirteen hundred miles into Mexico for a vacation of sur.fing
at the seaside village of San Blas. Because of an abundance of mosqu1tos.
they forsook their campers and rented a house to sleep in. While playing
their musical tape recordings one night, the police came to investigate
the loud music which evidently had disturbed the neighbors. In searching
the premises, the police discovered two marijuana butts in an abandoned
chest of drawers. The boys denied knowledge of the marijuana but were
arrested and charged with possession of marijuana, a federal offense.
and placed in a Mexican state penitentiary. The parents of the boys
hired a prominent and highly regarded defense lawyer in Mexico to
represent the youths. In addition, a Congressman and a United States
Senator endeavored to intercede through the State Department. All
efforts met with failure and the boys were still in the penitentiary in
December. When Dallas Roose, our Senior Grand Steward from
Chula Vista, was apprised of the matter he journeyed across the border
to Tijuana to discuss the case with Joaquin Aguilar Robles. a Past
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Baja California who had offered
his assistance. This good Brother from our sister jurisdiction across the
border effected the release of the boys on Christmas Day and arranged
to have them flown from Mexico City to San Diego for a joyous and
tearful reunion with their families.
On my recent visit to the Grand Lodge of Baja California, I had the
honor and privilege of meeting Past Grand Master Robles and personal-

51

INSURANCE

On assuming the office of Grand Master last October, I appointed
an Insurance Committee and charged them to study and evaluate the
entire insurance program of Grand Lodge and its entities and to make
recommendations thereon to the Grand Master. To this committee, I
appointed the very finest and most knowledgeable Master Masons I
could find. Samuel C. Levin, a Past Master of Pacific Lodge No. 136 and
long active in the insurance business as a broker in San Francisco was
Chairman. The committee also included Harry B. Keeling . Past Master
of Henry Knox Lodge No. 662. He heads his own firm. employing a
large staff with headquarters in the Wilshire District in Los Angeles
and is considered to be one of the foremost insurance agents and
brokers in Southern California. The other members of the committee
are William G. Deeble, a Past Master of All States Lodge No. 593
and a prominent, capable insurance man from Long Beach; Samuel E.
Harris. Past Master of Temple City Lodge No. 612. an insurance executiv~ .with the Continental Assurance Company. They worked long
and diligently and spent many hours away from their own businesses
in the pursuit of their assignment. They are men of the highest ethics
and moral integrity and did not receive nor would they accept remuneration of any kind for their services; choosing to serve in an advisory
capacity because of their love for the Fraternity. Their recommendations which were concurred in by your Grand Master have resulted
in our insurance coverages being increased and broadened for relatively
the same cost and in some instances, savings were effected.
I express to each of these Master Masons my commendation for the
excellence of their labors.
YOUTH ORDERS

Continuing the custom established last year by Grand Master Hopp,
I have set aside a short period on Tuesday morning of this communication at which time Grand Lodge will be called from labor to refreshment
for the purpose of greeting the young people who head our youth
orders of DeMolay. Job's D a ughters and Rainbow for girls. This year
our guests will be Phyllis Terry, Grand Bethel Honored Queen; Judy
Horner, Grand Worthy Advisor; and Thomas Van Over, Master
Councilor.
I know that you will welcome this opportunity to demonstrate your
love and affection for these splendid examples of young men and
women.

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRANO LODGE ADMINISTRATION

The administrative duties of the Grand Master in recent years
have increased tremendously and this year has been no exception,
necessitating many hours of labor by the Grand Master in the Grand
Lodge office. In addition, your Grand Master has attended most of
the meetings of the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple and the Trustees of our Masonic Homes. The activities of
these boards have also increased substantially.
The overall operation of our Grand Lodge and its entities involves
the expenditure of hundreds of thousands of dollars annually as well
as the employment of numerous personnel. As a businessman, I share
the concern of Past Grand Master Myron E. Smith who stated to this
Grand Lodge. "The funds of the Grand Lodge are trust funds and
their use should be regulated with precision and exactness." In these
days of inflation, rapidly rising costs and decreased purchasing power
of the dollar, it should be our constant endeavor to improve the administration and operation of our Grand Lodge by effecting such economies
as may from time to time be desirable or necessary. As most successful
and well organized businesses periodically survey their operations and
procedures, to see if any improvement could be made, so should we
do likewise.
RECOMMENDATION No. 4

It is, therefore, my recommendation that the incoming Grand Master
appoint a special committee, three of whose members shall consist of the
Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens who will
cause to be made, an in-depth study of the administration and operation
of our Grand Lodge and its entities with a view toward effecting
economies and improving efficiency. I further recommend that provision be made in the budget for the necessary expenses of the committee
and that the committee report its recommendations at our next Annual
Communication.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

In each and every instance, their commitment to duty was prompt and
complete. To them must go the credit for the accomplishments of the
year. They are truly the workhorses of this Grand Lodge.
I am sorry to report to you that two of these devoted servants of
Freemasonry demitted to the Grand Lodge on H ig h in recent weeks.
Worshipful Frank W. Raddatz, Inspector of the 524th Masonic D istrict
and Worship ful Irvin Shulkin, Inspector of the 568th Masonic District.
Both were close personal friends of your Grand Master. No kindlier or
more unselfish and dedicated Masons ever lived.
This Grand Lodge and Masonry in general are the better because
of their lives.
C OMMENDAT ION S

Our Committeemen and Trustees have had an outstanding year in
Masonic activity and service to the Craft. I express to each of them my
heartfelt gratitude for their dedication and devotion to our Fraternity.
The Deputy Grand Master, R. W. Chester R. MacPhee, the Senior
Grand Warden. R. W. Herbert A. Huebner and the Junior Grand
Warden, R. W. Lester S. McElwain have given unstintingly of their
time and unfailing support to your Grand Master. Their wise counsel
and advice, good humor and Masonic fellowship will remain with me
always as a hig hlight of this Masonic year.
Each Grand Master has the privilege of selecting and appointing
certain Grand Lodge officers to serve with him during his year as Grand
Master. I am honored and pleased that the men I appointed this year
became a part of my life and in the opinion of your Grand Master, no
finer group of men exists in or out of Masonry. They have been loyal
and steadfast in the performance of their duties and the Masonic rapport and good fellowship which prevails among them is unequalled
anywhere in Masonry. To them I express my grateful appreciation for
their friendship and support.
FATHER AND SoN

INSPECTORS AND ASSISTANT GRAND L ECTURERS

This year, your Grand M aster has traveled over 150,000 miles in
the performance of his duties. The burden of arranging transportation
and lodging for my many and varied visitations throughout the jurisdiction was placed on the shoulders of the Inspectors and coordinated
through the Assistant Grand Lecturers of each D ivision who were
charged with the additional responsibility of arranging and confirming
the Grand Master's itinerary. They performed their duties with fervency and zeal and were so proficient in their timing and execution
that we were able to lay four cornerstones in one day. a new record
for this Grand Lodge. In addition, I placed extra responsibilities on
them throughout the year with special requests from the Grand Master.

It seems but a few short weeks since that day of March 12, 1945,
when I was made a Master Mason in John Marshall Lodge No. 636. I
recall very vividly my father, Robert 0. Crigler, a member of Angeles
Mesa Lodge No. 625, taking his Masonic ring from his finger and presenting it to me with these words, " This ring was given to me by your
mother. I am proud to be your father and I know you will be a good
Mason. Your mother and I want you to have this ring."
On October 2, 1969, just a few days ago. I placed that same ring
on the finger of my only son, Robert A. Crigler, Jr .. on the occasion of
my raising him to the sublime degree of Master Mason in Redondo
Lodge No. 328. Only those of you who have experienced this supreme
moment of fulfillment can know the joy in my heart. The intervening

54

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

years between my raising and that of my son's have been filled with
great Masonic experience s. I was proud to be M aster of my Lodge,
prouder still to serve as an Inspector and even more elated to be appointed Assistant Grand Lecturer.

Following reference to the Committe e on Distribution of the Grand
Master's Decisions and Recomme ndations, shown below are committee.
reports and

55

ACTION .BY GRAND LODGE
DECISIONS 1 AND 2

CONCLUSI ON

Just three years ago you filled my cup to overflowing when you
elected me Junior Grand Warden and now as I am about to lay down
the gavel. I do so in the knowledg e that Masonry is the greatest force
for moral good in the world today and that you have accorded me an
honor which comes to but few men, that of leading the Craft in California
and Hawaii.
These years have been the most rewarding of my life. The opportunity to meet and enjoy Masonic fellowship with thousands of members
of the Craft and the pleasure of working with my Brothers in the advancemen t of our ideals and principles will always remain close to
my heart.
To you, my Brethren, I shall be eternally grateful.
These things I believe - That all Masons are equal and each,
regardless of station, rank or office must be treated equally. That
Masonry has no special privileges or special considerat ions to bestow
on any Mason or group of Masons except the privilege of service. In
the light of this knowledg e and belief it has been my constant endeavor
to perform these duties and all other duties delegated to the Grand
Master by you who are the Grand Lodge.
Those who have preceded us have given .us a priceless possession ,
Freemaso nry, and today the quality of the Craft in our jurisdictio n
has never been higher. It remains for you and me to continue to elevate
it toward the ultimate goal of all Masons, the Brotherho od of man under
the Fatherhoo d of God.
Almost two thousand years ago, the greatest of all teachers said, "A
new commandm ent I give unto you, that ye love one another." My
Brethren, in that short sentence we have been given the perfect definition of Freemaso nry. As Master Masons, it is given to us strictly in
charge, ever to walk and act.

/~a. ~~
Grand Master
The message was received with a standing ovation and was referred
by the Deputy Grand Master to the Committe e on Distributio n.

The Committee on Jurisprudence has reviewed Grand Master's Decisions 1 and 2 and have found them to be legally correct and move their
approval.
Adopted.
RECOMM ENDATION No. 1

This recommen dation was referred to the incoming Grand Master
for his action.
Adopted.
RECOMME NDATION No. 2
The Committe e on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has recommended that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee to continue the work of preparing a proposed revision of the California Masonic Code.
Your Committe e on Policy and General Purposes concurs with the
recommendation. I am authorized by the Committe e on Jurisprudence,
to which this recommen dation was also referred, to state that no legal
question is involved, hence that Committe e will not make a separate
report. To implemen t the recommen dation the following motion is presented :
I move that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee
to continue the work of preparing a proposed revision of the California
Masonic Code.
Adopted.
RECOMME NDATION No. 3

The Committe e on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand M aster has recommen ded that annotation s j and 1 appearing under Section 150 of the California Masonic Code, which places
certain restrictions upon the presentati on of a fifty-year button if the
recipient dies after becoming eligible but before receiving the button
or if he is confined in a state hospital and is unable to comprehe nd the
presentati on.
The recommen dation arose from a case detailed by the Grand Master in his message. A Brother became eligible on May 5, 1969. He was
connned in a hospital a considerab le distance from bis home. Arrangements were completed for the presentati on but before the button reached
the area the Brother suffered a stroke from which he did not recover
and died eleven days later. H is daughter requested the button , but it
could not be presented under earlier decisions which had been approved
by the Grand Lodge.

56

57

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that no
distinction should exist, to give one example, between two Brothers
both of whom become eligible but one of whom requests that the button be mailed to him instead of being formally presented and he dies
after it has been placed in the mails and another Brother, who is willing
to have the button formally presented but dies before the presentation
is made. The family of the first would receive the button but under existing law the family of the second would not.
Your Committee is cognizant, however, that such buttons have been
presented since 1928. If the recommended change in policy were adopted
without any limitation thereon as to retroactive opera tion, it is possible
that hundreds of requests might be made now as to Brothers who died
ten, twenty or thirty years ago. In changing our policy it does not appear to your Committee that it is desirable to make the change prior
to the start of the current year. We, therefore, recommend that the
change of policy in relation to deceased Brothers be limited to Brethren
whose eligibility occurs on or after January 1, 1969.
The Committee on Jurisprudence will present the proper implementation of the recommendation as so modified and we recommend a
"yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
To effect the implementation of the Grand Master's Recommendation Number 3, the Committee on Jurisprudence proposes the following:
RESOLVED, that annotations "j'' and ")'' under Section 150 of
the California Masonic Code be deleted and that an annotation to said
section be added as follows: "It is the policy of the Grand Lodge to
provide upon request a fifty-year button to the family or heirs of a deceased or incompetent brother who becomes eligible for such button
after January 1, 1969, provided that, in the case of a deceased hrother
he was eligible for but had not received such button prior to his death,
and, in the case of an incompetent brother, that he is otherwise eligible."
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.
RECOMMENDATION No. i
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Grand Master has stated that most succe~sful and well organized businesses periodically survey their operations and procedures to
see if any improvement could be made and he has recommended that
the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee, which committee shall report its recommendations at our next Annual Communication, as to any possible economies or improved efficiencies in the operation of our Grand Lodge. the Masonic Homes or Memorial Temple.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is cognizant that
on several occasions in past years a special committee has been created
to make a study of one or more of our entities to the same ends. Such
committees have, from time to time, produced valuable recommendations

to the Grand Lodge. So rapidly are improvements being made in mechanical and electronic devices for the storing of data, the reproduction of
documents and the performance of clerical tasks, that this committee
believes the time is ripe for the appointment of a special committee.
The Grand Master has further recommended that the incoming
Deputy Grand Master. Senior and Junior Grand Wardens be included
in the membership of this committee. The Committee on Policy and
General Purposes is cognizant that the ever increasing demands made
upon the time and energies of the Brethren occupying these stations
has been a matter of grave concern to them and to the Grand Lodge.
so much so that a study was made and as a result Resolution Number
Ten is on our agenda to relieve the Deputy Grand Master from serving
on the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes and to relieve both
the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens from serving on the Bomd of
Trustees of the Memorial Temple.
We believe the time required to serve on the proposed special
committee might exceed the time saved by the proposed relief. We recognize that the added familiarity with the operations of the Gra nd
Lodge and its entities which would be gained by service on the special
committee would be valuable to these officers.
We therefore believe that the best service to all would be rendered
by leaving it to the incoming Grand Master to find the best solution
in consultation with these other officers rather than to impose this task
upon them by naming them as members in the motion which will be
presented in a moment.
The Grand Master also stated: "I further recommend that provision be made in the budget for the necessary expenses of the committee." The Committee on Finance, to w hich this recommendation was
also referred, authorizes us to state that they have estimated the expense of the proposed special committee and a re prepared to include
such an item in the budget.
The Committee on Jurisprudence, to which the resolution was also
referred, authorizes us to state that as no legal question is involved
they will not make an additional report.
To implement Recommendation Number Four. but without imposing a burden upon the Deputy Grand Master and Grand Wardens
which they would then be obliga ted to carry and to get the matter
before the house :
I move that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee to make an in-depth study of the administration and operation of
our Grand Lodge and its entities toward effecting any possible economy or increased efficiency.
The Committee on Finance indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
Adopted as amended.

58

59

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OP GRAND LoDGE

June I-Cornerstone, new San Francisco unit of the Shriners' Hospi-

1968
November 2-Cornerstone, Lyman Gilmore School. Grass Valley.
November 9-Constitution, Palm Desert Lodge No. 826, Coachella.
November 16-Cornerstone, Jefferson Intermediate School, San Gabriel.
1969
February IS-Cornerstone, Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463, Morgan Hill.
March 22-Cornerstone, Glen View Elementary School. Huntington
Beach.
May 23-Cornerstone, Redlands Lodge No. 300, Redlands.
May 24-Cornerstone, San Jacinto Lodge No. 338, San Jacinto.
May 31-Cornerstone, Parkview School, Chula Vista.
June 14-Cornerstone, Burney Junior-Senior High School, Burney
(Chester R. MacPhee, Deputy Grand Master).
July 12-Dedication, Schofield Lodge No. 413, Honolulu.
July 26-Cornerstone, Clovis High School, Clovis (Chester R.
MacPhee, Deputy Grand Master).
August 16-Cornerstone and Dedication, Ocean Park Lodge No. 369,
Santa Monica.
August 21-Dedication, Scepter Lodge No. 808, Sacramento.
August 30-Cornerstone and Dedication, Simi Valley Lodge No. 806,
Simi.
September 6-Cornerstone, Civic Center, Willows.
September 20-Cornerstone, Siskiyou College, Weed.
September 27-Cornerstone, Park View School. Huntington Beach.
September 27-Cornerstone, Marina High School. Huntington Beach.
September 27-Cornerstone, Leo G. Pauly School, Bakersfield (Chester
R. MacPhee, Deputy Grand Master).
September 27-Cornerstone, Bernice Harrell Chipman Junior High
School, Bakersfield (Chester R. MacPhee, Deputy Grand Master).
SPECIAL CEREMONIES AND DEDICATIONS

March I-Dedication, San Geronimo Valley Elementary School, Lagunitas (Chester R. MacPhee, Deputy Grand Master).
April 20-Dedication, Theodore Roosevelt School, Desert Sands Unified School District (Herbert A. Huebner, Senior Grand Warden).
April 21-Dedication, Kenneth E. Mitchell School, Santa Ana (LeRoy
Connelly, Inspector 630th Masonic District).
April 21-Dedication, Glenn Richardson School. Fairfield, (Harold
N. Richards, Grand Lecturer).

tal for Crippled Children.
I-Dedication,
A. E. Arnold School, Cypress (William H. Price,
June
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division VI).
June 14-Ground-breaking ceremony, redevelopment project, Masonic
Home at Covina.
NEW LODGES INSTITUTED

1969
August 29-Kern River Valley Lodge, Kernville.
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS

1968
October 18-Feast of Tishri, San Francisco Bodies, Scottish Rite.
October 20-Breakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association, San Francisca.
October 21-Reception, John Marshall Lodge No. 636, Beverly Hills.
October 23-Grand Chapter Sessions, Order of the Eastern Star, San
Francisca.
October 24-Reception, Hollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood.
October 27-Breakfast, San Mateo County Officers Association, San
Mateo.
October 28-Dinner, Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers Association,
San Jose.
November I-Breakfast, High Twelve Clubs, Annual Convention,
Pasadena.
·
November 3-13tlr Annual Reception and Breakfast, 107th and 108th
Districts. Santa Rosa.
November 1-Reception, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles.
November I 5-44th Annual Session of the Grand Guardian Council of
California International Order of Job's Daughters, Dinner, Santa
Monica. (Herbert A. Huebner, Senior Grand Warden).
November 15-Reception, Southern California Edison Masonic Club,
Los Angeles.
November 17-First All-Masonic Family Reception for the Grand
Master, Los Angeles.
November 20-22-Death Valley Daze, Royal Arch Masons, Death
Valley.
November 23-Dinner Dance, Loyalty Lodge No. 529, Los Angeles.
November. 2?-Annual Convention, Northern California DeMolay Association, Sacramento, Dinner.
November 30-Dinner Dance, Menorah Lodge No. 623, Los Angeles.
December 3-Joint Reception for the Grand Master of Utah and the
Grand Master of California, Anacapa Lodge No. 710, Oxnard.
December 6-Dinner, Pasadena Scottish Rite Bodies, Pasadena.
December 7-Dinner, Red Cross of Constantine, Los Angeles.

60

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

December 9-lnstallation of Officers, John Marshall Lodge No. 636,
Beverly Hills.
December 17-Christmas Party, Shrine Band, Al Malaikah Temple,
Los Angeles.
December 19-Christmas Party, Masonic Home at Covina.
December 21-lOOth Installation of Officers, Wilmington Lodge No.
198-Wilmington.
1969
January 19-Breakfast, San Gabriel Board of Relief, Glendora.
January 23-Annual Roll Call Dinner. Washington Lodge No. 20,
Sacramento.
January 24-lnstallation of Officers, Masonic Press Club of Northern
California, San Francisco.
January 25-Reception for Grand Master and Board of Trustees, Decato. Union City.
January 29- Reception, 210th and 211 th Districts, Woodland.
February I-Meeting of the heads of all the Concordant Bodies, Los
Angeles.
February I- Installation of Officers. Vallee de France Lodge No. 329,
Los Angeles.
February 7-Reception , Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies. Los Angeles.
February 8- Reception, Southern California Past Masters Association,
Los Angeles.
February 27-Luncheon, Public Schools Committee, Los Angeles.
March 3- Grand Sessions, Order of Amaranth, Los Angeles.
March 5- Luncheon, East Bay Insurance Squa re Club, Oakland.
March 6-Legislative Dinner, Sacramento.
March 8-Reception, 500th District. Bishop.
March 11-Reception, The Westerners, Los Angeles.
March 16- Breakfast, Los Angeles Board of Relief. Hollywood Palladium.
March 20- Reception, Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, Ventura.
March 23- Breakfast, East Bay Masters and Wardens Association,
Oakland.
March 27- Annual Roll Call Dinner, Garfield Lodge No. 566, Los
Angeles.
March 28-30-Division VI Conference, El Cajon.
April 3--Maundy Thursday Services, Los Angeles Scottish Rite. Los
Angeles.
April 6--Easter Services, Los Angeles Scottish Rite, Los Angeles.
April 10-Reception, I 19th and I 20th Districts, Berkeley.
April 11-13--Division 1 Conference, Napa. ·
April 19-Special meeting with newly raised Master Masons in Sacramento area, Sacramento
April 16--Reception, 538th District, Rosemead.

April 19-Dinner, Masters and Wardens Association, Sacramento.
April 20-Breakfast. Sacramento Board of Relief. Sacramento.
April 21-Public Schools Week Program, Los Angeles.
April 24-Public Schools Week Program, 118th, 160th, 161st Districts,
Brentwood.
April 25-27-Division 111 Conference, Los Gatos.
f.(ay 1-Grand York Rite Sessions, Oakland.
f.(ay 3--Dinner and Reception. Masters and Past Masters Association,
Bakersfield (Chester R. MacPhee, Deputy Grand Master).
f.(ay 4-Dinner and Reception, Evergreen Lodge No. 259, Riverside.
May 9-Reception, 622nd, 624th, 625th, and 626th Districts, Long
Beach
May 12-Visitation to Westlake Lodge No. 392. Los Angeles, Testimonial Dinner for John Sickenberger.
May 13--Reception, 518th District, San Fernando.
May 16-18-Division V Conference, San Diego.
May 18-Breakfast, Orange County Officers Association, Disneyland.
May 22-Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in
Orange County area, Santa Ana.
May 23--Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in
Riverside area. Riverside.
May 26-50 year pin to Willard Stewart. John Marshall Lodge No.
636. Los Angeles.
May 27-Visitation to Blackmer Lodge No. H2, San Diego.
June 5--Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in Fresno
area, Fresno.
June 6-8- Division IV·Conference. Twain Harte Lodge, Twain Harte.
June 9-Dinner and Reception, 110th and 1l6th Districts, Napa.
June 13-Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in
Bakersfield area, Bakersfield.
June 15- lnvestiture Ceremony. DeMolay Legion of Honor, Los Angeles.
June 18- Reception, Islam Temple, A.A.O.N.M.S., San Francisco.
June 19-Reception and Dinner, 222nd, 226th, 227th and 228th Districts. Stockton.
June 20-22-Division II Conference, South Lake Tahoe.
June 24-11 th Annual Dinner, Masonic Press Club of Los Angeles.
June 25-Special meeting with all newly raised Mas ter Masons in the
East Bay area, Oakland.
June 26--Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in the
Los Angeles area, Los Angeles.
June 27-Grand Bethel Sessions, International Order of Job's Daughters, Long Beach.
June 27-Annual Beefsteak Feed, Inglewood Lodge No. 42 I, Inglewood.

61

62

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

July 7-Joint Blue Lodge Official Reception and Dinner, Waikiki Lodge
No. 774.. Honolulu.
July 8-Luau, Honolulu Lodge No. 4.09, Honolulu.
July 9-Dinner. Waikiki Lodge No. 774.
July 10-Wreath Laying Ceremony, Punchbowl National Cemetery.
Dinner, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, Honolulu.
July I I-Dinner, Schofield Lodge No. 4.4.3, Waianae Mountains.
July 13- Dinner, Koolau Lodge No. 801, Kaneohe.
July 14.-Wreath Laying Ceremony, USS Arizona Memorial. Luncheon w ith officers of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598, Honolulu.
July 15- D inner, Lodge le Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371, Honolulu.
July 16-Luncheon and Reception, Scottish Rite, York Rite, Shrine, Red
Cross of Constantine, Honolulu.
July 17-Reception, Job's Daughters, Rainbow and DeMolay, Honolulu.
July 18-Reception and Banquet, 384.th and 385th District Officers
Association.
July 22-Reception and Dinner , Kauai Lodge No. 589, Lihue.
July 29-Reception and Dinner, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo.
July 30-Dinner with Kona Masons, Kona.
August 14-Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in
San Diego area, Chula Vista.
August 22-Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons in
San Francisco area, San Francisco.
August 23-East Bay Reception, Order of the Eastern Star, Richmond.
(Gilbert Benoit, former Grand Marshal) .
August 23- Reception, Fort Bragg Lodge No. 361, Fort Bragg.
September 5- Barbecue. 244.th, 24.6th, 217th Districts, Durham.
September I I-Reception, 508th District. Santa Barbara.
September 13- Barbecue, 636th, 637th Districts, Fallbrook.
September 14.-Breakfast, 606th, 610th, 618th Districts, Ontario.
September 14.-Constitution Observance Program, 64.2nd District, San
Diego (Herbert A. Huebner, Senior Grand Warden) .
September I 7-Constitution Observance Program. San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association.
September 17-Constitution Observance Program, 580th a~d 590th
Masonic Districts, Lynwood (Herbert A. Huebner, Semor Grand
Warden).
September 18-Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons
in San Jose area, San Jose.
September 19-Special meeting with all newly raised Master Masons
in Northern California, Anderson.
September 20-Reception and Dinner, 236th District, Dunsmuir.
September 22-Visitation to Mizpah Lodge No. 378, Los Angeles.
September 23-Visitation, Leisure World Masonic Club, Laguna Hills.

63

September 25-Visitation to Los Angeles Lodge No. 4.2, Los Angeles,
Testimonial dinner for Herman Geller, Grand Marshal.
September 28- Breakfast, 4.16th and 4. I 8th Districts, Fresno.
September 28-Vesper Service. First United Methodist Church,
Very Reverend Dr. Kenneth A . Carlson, Grand Chaplain.
October 2-Redondo Lodge No. 328, Redondo Beach, Conferral of
Third Degree on Robert A. Crigler. Jr.
ANNIVERSARIES

1968
October I 8-50th Anniversary. Lincoln Lodge No. 470, San Francisco.
October 26-Centennial, Ferndale Lodge No. 193, Ferndale.
October 31-60th Anniversary, Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Huntington Park.
November 2-Centennial, Mountain View Lodge No. 194, Mountain
View.
November 8-75th Anniversary, Temescal Lodge No. 314. Corona.
November 1~75th Anniversary, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, Los Angeles.
November 19-75th Anniversary, Norwalk Lodge No. 315, Norwalk.
1969
February 14-Centennial Celebration, Buckeye Lodge No. 195, Winters
March 25-Centennial, San Simeon Lodge No. 196, Cambria.
May 2-Centennial, Truckee Lodge No. 200, Truckee.
May 3-Centennial. Hartley Lodge No. 199, Lakeport.
May IO-Centennial, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Los Angeles.
July 19-Centennial. Confidence Lodge No. 203, Castroville.
September ~Centennial, Salinas Lodge No. 201, Salinas.
September 2~Centennial. Silveyville Lodge No. 201, Dixon.

1

VISITS TO OTHER JURISDICTIONS

•
1968
November 10-12-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Nevada.
1969
January 1-16-Grand Sessions. Grand Lodge of India, Madras.
January 27-29-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Colorado
(Edward H. Siems, Grand Secretary).
February 2-4-Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Utah.
February 11-14.-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oklahoma
(Ray Smith, Inspector, 500th Masonic District).
February 20-24-Grand Masters' Conference, Washington, D. C.
(Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Secretary).
March 17-19-50th Anniversary Celebration, The Order of DeMolay,
Kansas City, Missouri.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

April 28-29-A nnual Communication, Grand Lodge of Arizona (Lester
S. Mc Elwain, Junior Grand Warden ).
June 11 - 12-Ann ual Communication, Grand Lodge of Oregon (Chester
R. MacPhee , Deputy Grand Master) .
June 17-18-A nnual Communication, Grand Lodge of Washing ton,
(Herbert A. Huebner . Senior Grand Warden ) .
June 19-20--A nnual Communication, Grand Lodge of British Columbia (Herber t A. Huebner , Senior Grand W arden).
June 27-Ann ual Communication, Grand Lodge of Montana (Chester
R. MacPhe e, Deputy Grand Master) .
Septemb er 13-Frat ernal Visitation, Gran Logia De Estado Baja California, Tijuana.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

65

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEP TED MASON S OF CALIFO RNIA
ROBERT A . CRIGLER

PROCLAMATION
GRAND MASTl!!:R
YOUTH ORDERS WEEK-M ARCH 17-22, 1969
"It is with youth as with plants, from the first fruits
they bear we learn what may be expected in future." -Demop hilus
In a day of grave peril for our democratic institutions, in an hour
when social change by insurrect ion, anarchy and 'civil disobedience"
is challenging the very cornersto nes of civilization, we as Freemas ons
should reflect on the causes and individually unite to protect, defend
and preserve our heritage for ourselves and posterity .
One of the best ways of insuring a brighter future is the support
we can give to the young men and women of our great characte r building youth orders. the Internati onal Orders of DeMolay, Job's Daughers and R ainbow for Girls.
"Fifty Years of Young Men on the· Go" is the theme for the Golden
Annivers ary of the Order of DeMolay . which was founded by Frank
S. Land on March 18, 191 9. DeMola y's constant slogan is that no D eMolay shall ever fail as a Citizen, a Leader or a Man. The record is
markedly clear that our D eMolay boys live up to this motto.
Love, Religion, Nature, Immorta lity, Fidelity, Patriotis m and Service are the tene ts of the Interna tional Order of Rainbow for Girls.
Founded in April. 1922 by the Reveren d William Mark Sexson. a distinguished Oklahom a Freemas on, Rainbow for Girls fosters a love for
humanity and our ·Rainbow girls possess the finest attribute s of womanhood.
.
Job's Daughte rs bands together young girls, between the ages of 12
and 20 with M asonic relations hip, for the purpose of building characte r
through moral and spiritual development, by teaching a greater reverenc e
for God and the H oly Scripture s; loyalty to our flag and the coµntry for
which it stands; and respect for parents and guardian s. To quote from
the scriptures. " In all the land there were no women found so fair as the
daughter s of Job."
I hereby proclaim the week of March 17 through March 22 as
Masonic Youth Orders Week througho ut the Jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge. Each Lodge is requeste d to give due notice of this
Proclama tion in its bulletin and I direct that this Proclama tion shall
be read at the March Stated M eeting of each Lodge in this Jurisdiction.
I further request that every Lodge during the month of March schedule an appropriate program in recognition and apprecia tion of the work
of our Youth Orders.
Dated: February 11 , 1969
Sincerely and Fraternally.
Attest:
RoBERT A. CRIGLER
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Master
Grand Secretar y

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

67

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

ROBERT A. CRIGLER
GRAND MASTl!ft

ROBERT A. CRIGLER
GRANO MAeTKR

PROCLAMATION
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK-APRIL 21 ST THROUGH 25TH, 1969
In 1920, Grand Master Charles Albert Adams stated, "A crisis
is now confronting the Public School system in America." He proclaimed Public Schools Week and called on all Masons to take an
active interest in all matters effecting our Public Schools. Because of
this action, our system of Public Schools has become the largest and
best in all the world.
Today, a different crisis is confronting the Public School system in
America. As Masons, and as exemplary citizens, we have a sacred
trust, duty and obligation to maintain and support our Public Schools,
Freedom's Foundation Stone.
I. therefore, proclaim the week of April 21 through 25, 1969 to be
Public Schools Week and call on every Mason in California and Hawaii to let his voice and his actions be heard. As concerned citizens,
we cannot remain silent. Apathy must be replaced with energetic resolution. I further direct:
That all Constituent Lodges in California and Hawaii actively participate in an appropriate Public Schools Program.
That the suggestions offered by the Public Schools Committee be
followed whenever possible.
That no Lodge programs or meetings be held during this period for
purposes other than this observance with the exception of Stated
Meetings.
That publicity be given Public Schools Week in the Trestleboard of
Constituent Lodges.
That this proclamation be read at each of the Stated Meetings for
March and April
Dated: February 11, 1969

PROCLAMATION
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH
To relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent on all men but particularly on Masons who are linked together by an indissolubl h ·
·
ff ·
Th
e c am
of smcere a ect1on.
e greatest manifestations of affection and
Brotherly Love are our Masonic Homes in Union City and C ·
W
d
ovma.
b · 1
e can e JUSt y prou of our accomplishments in ta king care of
our ~wn_. There are three-hundred twenty-five guests whose average
age 1s eighty-three at the Home for the Elderly in Union City where
they are receiving the finest care. There are seventy children of our
less fortunate Bret~ren who are given true loving care and affection
at the Home for Children in Covina.
The Great Book w hich adorns our altar states "Blessed is the
who seeth his brother's need and supplieth it."
'
man
There i~ n~ finer work in Masonry than performing this--our du ty
and our obligation.
proclaim the month of May 1969 as "M
· H
E dI therefore
M
..
asonic omes
n o~ment onth and ask all Masons in California and Hawaii to
~ar~ m t~e support · of our two wonderful Homes. I direct tha t this
roe amat1on be read a t the April and May Stated Meetings and that
a copy be sent to each member.
Dated : March I, 1969
Sincerely and Fraterna lly,
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary
Sincerely and Fraternally.
ROBERT A. CRIGLER

Grand Master
Attest:
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Grand Secretary

Grand M aster

68

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

69

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE

GRAND LODGE

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

OF CALIFORNIA

OF CALIFORNIA
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
ROBERT A. CRIGLER

GllAND MA8Tll:ll

OllAND MA•Tllll

PROCLAMATION

Memorial Day, Flag Day and the Fourth of July-each has a special niche on the calendar because they emphasize preservation of
freedom at home and abroad.
Lethal influences are currently at work, endeavoring to undermine
the American Way of Life.
Freedoms Foundation at Valley Forge calls our attention to this
and invites participation in a program called OPERATION "CLOSE
RANKS." This urges all Americans to join in a positive expression
or reaffirmation of loyalty to God and Country.
A visible demonstration of this spirit is to fly the Flag of our country at our homes, places of business. offices and factories.
As Masons, we should wholeheartedly support such a program, and
I have informed Freedoms Foundation that the Grand Lodge of Free
and Accepted Masons of the State of California endorses this program.
To that end, I request every Mason in this Jurisprudence to display the
Flag in some appropriate manner during this span of important holidays.
I direct that this proclamation be read at Stated Meetings subsequent
to its receipt through the month of July. and I further direct that every
Lodge in this Jurisdiction shall present the Flag with prescribed formalities at such Stated Meetings.
Dated: May 22, 1969.
Sincerely and Fraternally,
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
Grand Master

Attest:
EDWARD H . SrnMs
Grand Secretary

PROCLAMATION
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MONTH

One of the truly magnificent moments in recorded history took
place on September 17, 1787, when thirty-nine delegates from thirteen
struggling states signed the Constitution of the United States of
America.
My Brethren, we must never forget that it is this document which
delivers into the hands of the citizens . .. all of the citizens . . . the
right of democratic self-determination and guarantees to each citizen
basic rights desired by all, and at the same time, reserves to the people
the power and responsibility for government.
At this moment in America's history, it is essential that all of us,
including the "silent majority" be reminded of what has thus far been
accomplished and that the future depends upon our continued dedication to those principles set forth in the Constitution.
For nearly three decades the Masons of California and H awaii
have sponsored patriotic programs to stimulate thought and endeavor
on the part of all citizens to maintain and preserve the blessings of
liberty. This year, we join with our fellow citizens in celebrating the
one hundred eighty-second anniversary. Let us do so with an equal
measure of reverence and enthusiasm.
I, therefore. proclaim September to be Constitution Observance
Month, and direct every Lodge in this jurisdiction to commemorate
our Constitution with a public observance held on a date as close as
possible to the Anniversary date of September 17th.
This proclamation shall be read at the September Stated Meetings of every constituent Lodge, and wherever possible, it shall be
reprinted in the Lodge bulletin.
Dated: August 11, 1969
Sincerely and Fraternally.
ROBERT A. CRIGLER
Grand Master

Attest :
EDWARD H. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

70

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M. of California:
My sixth annual report as Grand Treasurer comprises the official
audit statement of Grand Lodge. Masonic Homes of California, the
California Masonic Memorial Temple and the California Masonic
Foundation.
The new auditors. Arthur Anderson and Company and the office
staff and your Grand Treasurer reviewed the statement presented. Supporting documents are available in the office of the Grand Secretary.
There were the usual number of items where budgets were inadequate to meet the total expense. Supplemental expenditures were approved by the Grand Master and are as follows:
General E xpense --·--··-··········-··········-··--··--·-·······$ 3.508.00
Appropriations .................................................... 10,440.00
In addition to these. the following expenditures were made from
Grand Lodge funds in accordance with the Grand Master's instructions
for items for which no provision was made at the last annual communication.
Various minor items ............................................ $ 1,162.00
Grand Master's Orientation Program ................
647.00
Grand Master's Endowment Letter ................... . 1,765.00
Cost of Grand Lodge Trip to
Union City-1968 .......................................... 3,551.00
Endowment Board Expense 1968-69 ............. . 8,339.00*
Total ................................................................ $15,464.00
* (See page 291-1968 Proceedings).
Of the $10,440.00 excess over budget noted above for appropriations,
$9.575.00 was accounted for by expenses incident to disposal of the
Clubhouse at Berkeley and maintenance costs relating to the Clubhouse
UCLA which has not yet been liquidated. Title to the clubhouse properties has been transferred during the year to the California Masonic
Foundation. A balance sheet and operating statement for the Foundation is a part of this report.
My sincere thanks and appreciation are extended to Grand Lodge
for the opportunity to serve Masonry and this jurisdication as Grand
Treasurer, and to the Grand Secretary and the office staff for their
cooperative helpfulness.
Respectfully submitted,
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Grand Treasurer

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

71

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
GRAND LODGE F. ~A. H. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS
SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS, EXPENSES AND CAPIT~. L C~ARGES
For the years ended June 30, 1969 and 1968
(Prepared by Office Statf)

f ncome rece I pts :

Grand Lodge:
Per caplt•, contributions &nd fees
Interest, dividends and other
Masonic Homes:
General fund:
Grand Lodge per capi ta and contributions
Payments through Lodges
Income from endownent end trust funds
Interest, dividends and other
Amounts rece ived on Pensions assigned by
Oecoto Residents
Endownent and Trust Funds:
I ncome from other endownent fund
Interest, dividends and other
Memorial Temple:
Building revenue
Interest and dividends
Gain on sale of securities
California Masonic Foundat ion:
Interest , divlden?s and other
Capital receip ts:
Grand Lodge:
Gain on sales of securities
Ha sonic Homes:
General Fund:
Gain on sales of secur it ies
Bequests and cont r i bu tions
Assignments by residen ts
Transfer Oe coto resi dents' accounts

Income from endownent and trust funds
Endownent and Trust Funds:
Gain on sales of securitie s
Bequests and contributions
Net Inc rease (decrease) In residents '

392 ,402
82, 9 11

425,220

475.313

520 ,093

480 ,894
46 ,857
948,889
369 . 73 9
1,846,3 79

502,343

California Kasonic Foundation:
Transfer Assets - Masonic Clubs, Be rkeley ~ L.A.
Bequests and contribut ions
Total rece ipts - forward

39,886
845,462
246,093
1,633, 784

378, 116
1 ,891
__287,84-0
989,731

1,821
882,373
884. 194

248,693

4, 584

229,053
6,429
13 447

253 277

248,929

!

14 606

38,477

19,812

81, 114
1. 726, 742
273, 73 1

580 ,023

12 ,628
2,094,215

13 304
2,014,992

501,643
1,371, 110

1,244,001

_1,872, 753

2,354
1,72 1,586

accounts

Memorial Temp le:
Grand lodge per capita and contri butions
Beques ts and cont r ibuti ons

94,873

39. 681
13, 774
53 ,455

785,448
574,922
61,295

475,231

45,651
20,023
65 674

323,26 2
20
323,282
8. 339 '604

7, 109 , 064

72

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRET ARY

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. 0 A. M. of California:
I have the honor to present to this Grand Lodge my Annual Report
as your Grand Secretary.

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS, EXPENSES AND CAPITAL CHARGES, Continued
for the year s ended June JO, 1969 and 1968
(Prepared by Office Staff)

Tota l r eceipts - forward
Expense disbursements ;
Grand Lodge:
Operating expenses
Hes on I c Homes:
General Fund:
Operation of Homes •nd outside rel ief
Administrative and general
Endownent and Trust Funds:
Hlscellaneous
Hemori al Temple:
Oper ati ng expenses (except depreciation)
Depreciation
Interest on notes payable
Contribution to Masonic Homes

1969

1968

$8,339,6o4

$7, 109,064

389,611

lio7,097

1 ,977 ,597
109,422
2,087 ,019

1,921,931
144 70 1
2,066,632

2 640

1 ,850

210,936
63,077

2,763,283

192,498
63,018
128
10 000
265 644
2,71il,223

4,182

31, 158

948,889
12,628
l ,891
2,232
62, 170

845,li62
13,304
l ,821
61, 295
18, 992

(66,352)

550
(50' 150)

3 '728,92~

~,66~,655

~,610 , 68 1

~3 ,44~ ,4o'Z_

10 ,000
284,0i~

Total expense disbursements
Expenses and other charges to capital:
)1ason i c Homes:
General Fund:
Property transferred to Property Fund
Endownent and Trust funds:
J ncome trans fer red to General Fund (I ncome)
Income transferred to General Fund (capital)
Income transferred to Endo"'1lent and Trust Fund
Tran s fer residents' accounts
Property transferred to Prope r ty Fund
Property fund :
Ret irement of bu ildi ngs, equipment and
Imp rovements
Property t ransferred from other funds
Hemoriel Temp le:
Depreciat ion applicable to prior years
Total expenses and other charges
Net i ncrease In fund balances

following Is a SU1Mlary of changes In the fund balances:
Inc rease o r (decre•se) In assets:
Cash
Secur it ies owned {co st)
Buildings, equipment and Improvements,
net of depreciation
Hi see 11aneous
(Increase) or decrease In llabllltles:
Loans from banks
11isce llaneous
Net Increase In fund balances, as above

73

MONIES RECEIVED

In accordance with Code provisions your Grand Secretary is required
to give an account of monies received during the year at each Annual
Communication. I refer you to the Grand Treasurer's Report, audited
by Certified Public Accountants. This report will be included in the
Advance Reports as well as the printed Proceedings of the communication. It reflects the detail of receipts and disbursements recorded by the
Office of the Grand Secretary.
The Grand Treasurer's report reflects again the recording of all
moneys received and credited to his account. The detail of disbursements
made by Grand Lodge during the year has been made available to the
Committee on Finance as required by law. Supporting books, papers and
vouchers are on file in the accounting office. All records of a financial
nature have been audited, and the records will be published in the Proceedings. The summarization of consolidated receipts and disbursements
for the year ending June 30, 1969-including Grand Lodge, Masonic
Homes, Endowments and Trust Funds. California Masonic Memorial
Temple, bequests, capital gains and others~ntails a tremendous volume
of paper work. These are carefully segregated into the appropriate
accounts by entity: The convenience and practicability of such a centralized accounting program, which has been in effect throughout the
years, continues to be confirmed daily through the ease of handling the
increased volume of recording required in the accounting office. Efforts
continue to be made to keep abreast of and to practice proven, modern
accounting techniques. Following prior consultation with our professional auditors, certain mechanical improvements in our systems have
been carefully installed and simplifications instituted which have made
our accounting more flexible and capable of absorbing even greater
demands. We have made much progress and continue to strive for further
improvements. The "team" effort on the part of our constituent Lodge
Officers. particularly the 711 dedicated Secretaries, the Inspectors, and
our loyal office staff, has made these many accomplishments possible. It
is a privilege to be a part of that team.

$2,736,595
3, 780,501

$ 483, 128

(10,665)
(127,o1 0)

290,253
253,24o

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

{1,z6e,14o)

(~4, 263)

~4,610,681

~~ 1 4 4S , 4o9

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
I. Special Committee on Code Revision, pages 49 and 60, 1968
Proceedings.

2,1is3,05 1

74

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

2. Contributions to Endowment Fund in Lieu of Flowers to Ill
Brother, pages 254 and 255, 1968 Proceedings.
3. Fifty Year Pins, pages 54 and 60, 1968 Proceedings.
4. Finance Study Committee Report, pages 40, 212, 224 and 231.
1968 Proceedings.
5. Permit Serving Liquor at Social and Other Gatherings and Meetings, pages 245 and 247, 1968 Proceedings.
6. Serving Liquor at Masonic Banquet, pages 251 and 252, 1968
Proceedings.
7. Study of Sojourner Relief and Board of Relief System, pages 40
and 59, 1968 Proceedings.
CHARTER AMENDMENTS

Change of Meeting Place.
Following is a list of Lodges and the changes of meeting place which
have occurred during the year:
Dana R. Weller Lodge No. 765 from Gardena to Torrance.
Ascot Lodge No. 538 from Gardena to Torrance.
These changes of meeting place have been officially approved under
the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary now requests permission to endorse their charters.
(NOTE: Approved. See Reports of Committees on Charters and
on By-laws for action taken.)
Consolidation of Lodges.
All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been
complied with the Grand Secretary requests authority to properly endorse the following charters:
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286 with San Miguel Lodge No. 285, effective December 1, 1968, to be known as Paso Robles Lodge No. 286.
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464 and Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517,
effective December 2, 1968, to be known as Alta Vista-Mount Vernon
Lodge No. 464.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461 and Argonne Lodge No. 514, effective
December 5, 1968, to be known as Argonaut-Argonne Lodge No. 461.
(NOTE: Approved. See Report of Committee on Charters.}
Duplicate charter.
Big Bear Lodge No. 617 reported that their charter, which was
stored in the bank vault, was missing and presumed lost. On December
11, 1968, a duplicate charter, which had been prepared under my direction, was forwarded to the Lodge.
N EW LoDGES

Kern River Valley Lodge U.D., located at Kernville, was formed
during the year. Dispensation granted August 2, 1969. The Lodge was
instituted August 29, 1969, Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, Grand
Master, presiding.
The charter members~ip is as follows : Charles DeWitt Ackerman

75

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

(Master), Richard Robert Bartholome (Senior Warden), Roy Stillman
DeVoe (Junior Warden), James Glenn Alexander, Andrew LeRoy
Anthony. Simeon Chesley Barnes, Jesse Ashambeau Barr. Harlan
Wesley Bowers, Albert D. Cathey, William Roy Carter, Albert Lawrence Card, Bobby Lee Davis, John Foch Brown, Robert Golden Donnelly, Albert Pearson Fike]. Michael James Gusty, Richard James Harlow, Burt Andrew Hutchison, Kenneth D . Hed, James Byrd Holloman,
Joe Melvin Hall. James Matthew Hanley, Elmer Earl Ingram, Bert
Dewey James, Bert Clinton James, William David Joughin, Eugene
Lane, William Ted Link, Clarence Ernest Mitchell, Aylmer Guy McReynolds, Doyle J. McDaniel, Ernest Elzie McCartney, John Edward
Rich, Jr., Cecil Leroy Rossback, Beverly Prior Robinson, Jr., William Alexander Suling, Earl Tilton Sparks, Wade Willis Woody, Ardis
Manly Walker, Derrall Powers Wells, Robert Wesley Williams, Billy
Gene Warnock. Dale Ervin Yeargan , Lawrence Weade Sherwood,
Ernest Enoch Martin, Joseph Edward Hendry, Jesse James Nichols,
Frank Lee Gann and Harry Lloyd Fryer.
MEMBERSHIP

1965

1966

New Lodges Formed ..... ______.
2
0
Consolidations ....................... .
Initiated ···-··-·························-··· 6,144
Passed ·························-··········--·- 5,899
Raised ....................................... . 5,875
Affiliations (Calif.) ·--············· 1,438
922
From Other Juris...................
362
Reinstated ............................... .
Withdrawn ............................... 1,970
Suspended N.P.D ................... 1,495
Suspended or Expelled
37
for Cause ····-··············-··········
Deaths ...................................... 5,008
Number of Members .............. 244,586*
Dues Remitted ···-···-······-········ 3,494
87
Gains or Losses ......... -.............
Number of Lodges
709
(excluding Research) ........
*Plural Members
(included in Total).............. 1,832
328
Research Membership ..........

2

0
5,390
5,079
5,211
1,396
784
352
1,870
1.501
21
5,365
243,572•
3,414
-1,014

1968
1
1
5,078
4,652
4,638
1,500
748
374
2,251
1,664

1969
0
7
4,367
4,175
4,262
2,351
657
351
3,157
1,834

13
20
5,421
5,348
241,834* 239,745*
3.603
3,532
-1,738 - 2,089

13
5,492
236,870*
3,602
-2,875

1967
2
2
5,116
4,784
4,900
1,904
808
321
2,670
1,633

711

711

711

704

1,973
355

1,951
346

1,947
350

1,907
341

FEES FOR AFPIUATION

1969
No. Lodges
Amount
NO FEE ···················-······----·-·-····392
$ 1.00 ............................................ 45
2.00 ·············--····-······-··········-··· 14
3.00 ·······-··································· 7
5.00 ........................... - ...............102
7.00 ····-······························-···········.1
10.00 ............................................107
12.00 ···-······-······-······-··········-··· 2
15.00 ···-··········-··-··········-··-······· 5

1969
No. Lodges
Amount
20.00 ···-···············-·-···················· 8
25.00 ···-······································· 17
26.00 ···-······-··············-··············· 1
30.00 ···-··············-··············-······· 1
50.00 ·······-··-······-······-···-··-······· 1
75.00 ·······································-··· 1
Total Lodges ······-··············-·············704
Average ..........................................$3.66

76

Amount
$ 50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85.00
86.00
90.00
95.00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
175.00
215.00

Total Lodges
Average

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FEES FOR DEGREES

MEMBERSHIP

1959
No.Lodges
99

1969
No. Lodges
68

5

2

11
1

11

1

1

152

22

18
3
1
32

15

1

1

1
1

208

229

6

13
3
49

2
32
3
77

1
1
1
7
7

2
691
$89.58

1

Decrease in
No. Lodges
31
3

1

186
3

Increase in
No. Lodges

1

7

79

1
4
5
9
3
8

l
34

1

4

1
17
1
21

7
1
17
4
2

3
4
2

3
1

1

1

704
94.52

77

This is the fourth successive year that we have shown a net loss in
membership. In 1966 we recorded our first net loss since 1941. The
Lodges accepted 754 fewer applications that year than in the preceding
year. In 1967 there were 274 fewer applications accepted, 38 less in 1968
and 711 fewer for the fiscal year ended June 30. 1969. This large decrease may be significant. Only time will tell.
In 1966 I reported the average number of deaths for the prior ten
years had increased by about 140 per year. Comparable figures for the
period since 1959 indicate the average increase in number of deaths has
been abou t l 08 per year.
Suspension for non-payment of dues for the year ended June 30.
1969, totaled 1834, which was the largest number since the depression
days in the 1930's. This represents 421 more suspensions than for the
same period ten years ago, but more alarming is the fact that it also
represents an increase of 170 over one year ago.
A careful study of the Membership Summary in this report should
give concern to each Master. There is a job to be done. It is said that
a man begins to die when he stops learning. This could also apply to
Lodges.
If the members. officers and committeemen of each Lodge. and of the
Grand Lodge, took this admonition seriously, a new goal of achievement
in the direction of greater learning could be translated into reality.

p ARAPH ERN ALIA

133

At the last Annual Communication funds were included in the
budget to purchase a new set of Grand Lodge Regalia . The regalia has
been delivered and is being used for the first time at this Annual Communication.
During the year, due to the inflation. arrangements were made to
have the Gold Jewels worn by the Grand Lodge Officers reappraised.
New appraisals have been certified and insurance values adjusted
accordingly.

31
8

LIBRARY ANO MUSEUM

ANNUAL DuES

Amount
$ 12.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00
22.00
23.00
24.00
25.00
26.00
30.00
33.00
36.00
38.00
40.00
50.00

Total Lodges
Average

1959
No. Lodges
189
1
316
52
1
117
10

3
2

1969
No.LodgH
37

131
42
2
223
143
31
8
1
47

20

1
44
18

2
9
1

1

1

2
3

691

1
106

2
9
1

1

$14.91

Inaease in
No. Lodges

704
$18.50

1

2
3

Decrease in
No. Lodges
152
1
185
10

Section 150, C.M.C., duties of Grand Secretary. Paragraph 14th,
reads as follows : " To act as Grand Librarian and take charge of the
library of Grand Lodge . under such regulations as it may prescribe."
During the past nine years I have worked closely with the Board of
Library Commissioners under the immediate direction of the several
Grand Masters.
Much has been accomplished, especially when we consider the
Board of Library Commissioners has very little space in which to func-

78

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

tion. Frankly. it has resulted in much frustration. Shelf space is limited.
We have more books in storage in the morgue than we have in the
Library.
In 1967 Grand Master Laurence E. Dayton made the following
observation in his message to Grand Lodge : "In the years I have served
as a n Officer of Grand Lodge. I ha ve had the pleasure of visiting the
Libraries and Museums of a number of Grand Lodges, including those
in London, Edinburgh and Dublin. This h as been a stimulating experience. One is impressed with the quality and extent of both the Libraries
and the Masonic Museum s in these other jurisdictions and the great
importance a ttached to them.
"We take just pride in our beautiful Grand Lodge Temple, but the
space available for our Library and Muse um is meager indeed with the
result that these facil ities suffer by comparison. It is the one feature of
our Temple which leaves much to be desired. All books available to us
cannot be accommodated and items of historical interest cannot be
properly displayed. There is a real and present need for more adequate
facilities and this need can only grow as time goes on.
"I express the fervent hope that the Temple Board will explore and
in due course develop ways and mea ns of providing library and museum
facilities commensurate with our needs and our sta tus in the Masonic
world."
Grand Lodge approved Grand Master Dayton's recommendatio n, as
quoted above, last year.
In line with these observations of Past Grand Master Dayton there
is a growing need for the further development of a Library and Muse um.
There is property adjoining our present Temple that ca n be acquired.
Some positive steps in acquiring property have been taken. When it is
announced that the acquisition has been accomplished , additional funds
and bequests will be forthcoming to help make the Library and Museum
a reality. In the meantime the necessary planning can take shape so that,
when sufficient funds do become available, your then Grand Lodge
leadership can submit a complete proposal to this body for its final
approval before further expenditures are made.
My Brethren, to build the California Masonic Memorial Temple a
start had to be made. In 1951 the Grand Lodge exhibited faith and confidence by taking positive action to make the Memorial Temple a reality
and voted a modest 50¢ per capita tax. This was long before an architect
was employed to draw the plans. The first step was officially taken. In
1969 you are asked to renew that faith and confidence.

---

As Grand Librarian I am pleased that members of the Board of
Library Commissioners have joined with other interested Brethren to
present Resolution No. 13 for your serious consideration.

79

This ~oncludes my ninth year as your Grand Secretary. Working
closely with the Officers of the Lodges, the Inspectors, Committeemen
and Grand Lodge Officers has made this a rich and rewarding experience.
The Office of Grand Secretary is an office of service to Masons and
Masonry. To a loyal staff my grateful thanks for their continued dedication and devotion .

Grand Secretary
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

80

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

EXHIB IT A

ACTIO N BY GRAN D LODG E

DISPENS ATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Occiden tal
No. 22; Concor d No. 117; Valley No. 135; Downe y No. 220; Pasade na
No. 272; Sanger No. 316: Sunset No. 352; Loyalton No. 359; Coaling a
No. 387; Yerba Buena No. 403; Blackmer No. 442: Clarence F. Smith
No. 482; Catalin a Island No. 524; Beverly Hills No. 528; Fairfax No.
556: Point Loma No. 620; John Marsha ll No. 636; La Brea No. 650;
Fontan a No. 653; Lakewood No. 728; Avenal No. 772: Five Points No.
779: Yucca Valley No. 802: Los Alamitos No. 809; Palm Desert No.
826.
To open Lodge in other than regular meeting place: La Parfaite
Union No. 17; McKinl ey No. 347: Jewel No. 374; Honolulu No. 409;
Schofield No. 443: Harbor No. 502: Pearl Harbor No. 598; Neptun e No.
619; Composite No. 639; Westm inster No. 787; Simi Valley No. 806:
Los Alamitos No. 809; Palm Desert No. 826; Souther n Californ ia Research.
To change date of a regular Stated Meeting: Fidelity No. 120; Laurel
No. 245; West Gate No. 335; Starr King No. 344; Menora h No. 623;
Home No. 721; Maccab ee No. 823.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union N~.
17: Lexington No. 104; Clovis No. 417; San Gabriel No. 546; Arcadia
No. 547; Tujung a No. 592: Atwate r No. 622; San Antonio No. 694:
Lake Tahoe No. 707: Rim of the World No. 711; Magnolia Park No.
715; San Juan No. 732; Golden Empire No. 733.
To re.ceive and act upon application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Delta No. 4 71.
To receive and act upon the application for Degrees without refer~
ence to committee: Monteb ello No. 451.
To receive and act upon the application for Degree s present ed by a
rejected Candid ate within less than twelve months : Glendo ra No. 404;
Greenle af No. 670: Conejo Valley No. 807.
To Change Date of Annual Meeting: Oak Plains No. 789.
DISPENS ATIONS DENIED

To change date of regular Stated Meeting : California No. 1; Northern Californ ia Researc h.
LIFE MEMBE RSHIPS

Fixing Fee.: Keystone No. 161. at $500.00.
Increasing Fee: Wester n Star No. 2. to $375.00; Marin No. 191. to
$500.00; Reading No. 254, to $625.00; Evergre en No. 259, to $500.00;
Redland s No. 300, to $420.00; Redond o No. 328, to $420.00; Charity
No. 362, to $375.00; Fratern ity No. 399, to $425.00; Golden Rule No.
479, to $325.00; Cahuen ga No. 513, to $425.00; Forest Hill No. 534, to
$500.00; Sojourn er No. 607, to $625.00; Koolau No. 801, to $420.00.
Rescind ing Fee: Argona ut-Argo nne No. 461; Alexan dria No. 531.

81

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
. Some of the req~ests for dispensation do not fully document compliance by the constitu ent Lodge with the requirem ent of a un animous
ballot on tho~e. applications for dispensation relating to degrees and
on those requmn g only a two-thi rds vote of the Lodge. The Committee suggest s that these inadequacies be called to the attentio n of the
secretaries of the constitu ent Lodges.
!he Committee on Jurispru dence has reviewed the special dispen~
stations granted and those denied by the Grand Master and has also
reviewed the resolutions relative to life memberships.
The Committee finds that everything done by the Grand Master
in regard to these matters has been in compliance with Masonic law.
We, therefore. recommend that the actions of the Grand Master
in gr~nting and de~ying those special dispensations and in approvi ng
the Life Membership Resolution be approve d by the Grand Lodge.
Adopte d.
EXHIB IT B
AMEND MENT TO BY-LAW S

Uniform Code of By-Law s: Adopte d in toto { C.M.C. Sections 339
and 310) 6 Lodges: Nort~ Butte No. 230; Redond o No. 328; Argona utArgonn e No. 461; Alta Vista-M ount Vernon No. 464; Thousa nd Oaks
No. 478; Kern River Valley U.D.
Stated Meeting .
Changi ng date-1 0 Lodges: Claiborne No. 185; Keith No. 187;
McKinl ey No. 347; Ocean Park No. 369; Morgan Hill No. 163; Utopia
No. 537; R. E. Dolley No. 616; La Brea No. 650; Albany No. 686; San
Lorenzo Valley No. 71 8.
Changi ng hour-5 Lodges: Lompoc No. 262; Vermon t Square
No. 515; James A. Foshay No. 641; William Rhodes Hervey No. 767;
Moreno Valley No. 804.
Providi ng for Legal Holida ys-I Lodge: Francis K. Shattuc k No.
571.
Fees {Article VIII, C.M.C. Section 354):
For Degrees:
lncreas ing-9 Lodges : Ophir No. 33, to $75.00; Alameda No.
167, to $150.00; Ora~ge Grove No. 293. to $100.00; Mount Jackson No.
295, to $75.00; Huntmg ton Beach No. 380, to $120.00; Crocker No. 454,
to $100.00; Point No. 503, to $105.00; Alexan der Graham Bell No. 595,
to $115.00; Victorville No. 634, to $90.00.
Decrea sing-le Progres de l'Ocean ie No. 371, to $100.00.

82

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

For Atfiliatio n-6 Lodges:
Fixing- 1 Lodge: Ophir No. 33, at $10.00.
Rescindi ng-5 Lodges: Santa Monica No. 307; Acorn No.
494; Veritas-Jo nathan No. 545; Pyramid No. 562; Gateway No. 821.
Dues: (Article IX, C.M.C. Section 356):
.
Increasin g-51 Lodges: Western Star No. 2, to $18.00; Ophir
No. 33, to $20.00: Santa Cruz No. 38, to $20.00; Yolo No. 81, to $20.00;
Lexington No. 104, to $18.00; Alameda No. 167, to $24.00: Redwood
City No. 168, to $24 .00; Marin No. 191. to $20.00; Buckeye No. 195,
to $20.00; Silveyville No. 201 , to $20.00; Olivet No. 205, to .$20.00;
Hope No. 234, to $18.00; Eucalyptu s No. 243, to $30.00; Reading No.
254, to $30.00; Evergreen No. 259, to $24.00; Lompoc No. 262, to
$20.00; Redlands No. 300, to $20.00: Santa Lucia No. 302. to $18.~;
Santa Monica No. 307, to $18.00; Palo Alto No. 346, to $18.00; ~ranc1s
Drake No. 376, to $24.00; Fraternity No. 399, to $20.00; Clovis No.
417. to $20.00; York No. 423, to $24.00; Alpha No. 431. to .$21.00;
Tyrian No. 439, to $18 .00; Rockridge No. 468. to $21.00; Pomt No.
503, to $21.00; Cahuenga No. 513. to $20.00 ; Alexandri a No. 531. to
$20.00; Forest Hill No. 534, to $24.00; Educator No. 554, to $20.00;
Fairfax No. 556. to $24 .00: Point Firmin No. 558, to $22.00; East San
Diego No. 561, to $16.00: Sojourner No. 607. to $30.00; Granada No.
608. to $21 .00; Truth No. 628, to $26.00: Victorvill e No. 634, to $20.00;
La Brea No. 650. to $25.00; Crescenta Valley No. 652, to $20.00; John
P. Jarman No. 669, to $18.00; Laguna Beach No. 672, to $20.00: San
Marino No. 685, to $24 .00; Saint Johns No. 725, to $24.00; Lakewood
N 728 to $25.00: San Juan No. 732 , to $18.00; Luther Burbank No.
75~. to $20.00; Koolau No. 801. to $20.00; Lakeside No. 760, to $21.00:
Boron No. 822, to $30.00
Charity Committe e (Article X, C.M.C. Section 360):
.
Increasing maximum amount-3 Lodges : Clarence F. Smith No.
482; Hunters Point Naval No. 706; Palmdale No. 769.
RESOLUTIO NS

Change of Meeting Place.
.
Same city (C.M.C. Section 372)-9 Lodges : Lompoc No. 262,
O e Park No. 369; Schofield No. 443: Morgan Hill No. 463; Sunny•
si~ea~o. 577; Big Bear No. 617: La Brea No. 650; Simi Valley No. 806;
Palm Desert No. 826.
Another City or Place ( C.M.C. Section 373 )- 2 Lodges : Ascot
No. 538; Dana R. Weller No. 765.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

83

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committe e on By-Laws:
The 1969 meeting of your Committee on By-Laws began at 9:30
a.m. on Saturday, October 11th. Again all seven members participate d.
Promptne ss in meeting at the appointed hour, full participati on by all,
diligence, competence, and experience of the members, and harmony
among them, made this a pleasant and rewarding assignme nt-greatly
lightening the burden.
Some one hundred six changes by constituen t Lodges were checked
and rechecked; to wit. ninety-five changes in by-laws and eleven changes
in place of meeting. In addition your Committe e has conferred with
the representa tives of a number of the Lodges whose by-laws were reviewed.
One hundred three of these changes are set out in Exhibit B of the
Grand Secretary 's preliminar y report, to which the members of this
Grand Lodge may refer. Three were approved by the Grand Master
after this preliminary report was prepared for the printer. Your Committee, finding them in order, moves that they be included in the Grand
Secretary' s report in the printed proceedings. These three are:
Changing date of stated meeting : Ocean Park No. 369.
Increasing dues to $20.00: Educator No. 554.
Changing meeting place, same city: Ocean Park No. 369.
The following is not approved, because the record before your
Committee does not establish that after written notice at one stated
meeting. the vote was taken at the next succeedin g stated meeting. as
required by Section 365 of the California Masonic Code:
Vermont Square No. 515: Changing time of stated meeting.
It is indicative of our time that of the nine Lodges changing fees
for degrees, and the fifty-one Lodges changing dues. all adopted increases.
Five Lodges, as an inducemen t to sojourning Brethren, rescinded
their fees for affiliation.
Your Committee especially commends Clarence F. Smith Lodge
No. 482, Hunters Point Naval Lodge No. 706, and Palmdale Lodge
No. 769 for increasing the authority of their respective charity committees. Article X of the by-laws of many of our Lodges is completely
antiquated in this respect, and figuratively pleads for amendmen t to
an amount more in keeping with the times in which we live. These
three Lodges are thanked for their example.
It may assist the Lodges if we here point to some of the more common pitfalls encounter ed in amending by-laws or removing place of
meeting.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

84

85

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

One of the most frequent is the requirement of California Masonic
Code Section 365, which is Article XIII of the Uniform Code of By.
Laws, that written notice be given at the stated meeting next preceding
the stated meeting at which it is voted upon. The purpose of this is to
prevent dissension among the Brethren : to ensure that all Brethren are
told exactly what is to be voted on and have an opportunity to attend
and vote; that it is not "slipped through" by postponement, but rather
that of those desiring to attend, at least two-thirds are convinced that
the change is in the best interest of the Lodge. To this end. while the
proposal may be amended as much as desired at the meeting at which
it is proposed, yet when the written notice is given at the meeting. then
at the next succeeding stated meeting it must be voted on in that exact
form, and cannot be amended in any particular.
There are four important points respecting the date of the stated
meeting specified in Article III of the Uniform Code of By-Laws:
First, the only exceptions for which the Lodge may provide an
alternative date are: during the Annual Communicatio n of Grand
Lodge. and those meetings which fall on days which are legal holidays
in the state in which the Lodge meets. There are no other exceptions.
Lincoln's Birthday is not a legal holiday in Hawaii and cannot be excepted by Lodges there. Kamehameha Day is not a legal holiday in
California and cannot be excepted by Lodges in that state.
Second. the particular legal holidays for which a Lodge wishes to
provide an alternative date must be specifically and individually named.
This prevents argument or misunderstand ing as to whether a particular
day is or is not a legal holiday. The officers of a Lodge should not have
to consult an attorney in order to be certain of the date on which their
stated meeting should be held.
Third, the particular legal holiday excepted should be identified by
NAME and NOT by date; for example New Year's Day. not January 1st, Independence Day, not July 4th, Veterans Day, not November 11th. The reason is that when a named legal holiday falls on Sunday. it is by law celebrated on the next day. Monday, which then becomes that legal holiday; and in Hawaii a similar situation exists with
respect to Friday when a named legal holiday falls on Saturday. For
example, if July 4th falls on Sunday, then July 5th is a legal holiday,
being by law the date on which Independence Day is celebrated. If the
by-laws of a Monday Lodge except "Independence Day." then the
Lodge does not meet on July 5th when it is a holiday. But if the by-laws
except "July 4th," then the Lodge must meet on July 5th, holiday or
no. since the 4th was excepted but the 5th was not. Now this is the
privilege and prerogative of the Lodge. It can meet on any holiday
except Sunday if it so desires. But probably it does not so desire. and
most likely it did not so intend. The Grand Secretary's office has a form
especially for use by Monday Lodges, and will provide it on request.

Fourth. a Lodge which makes no other exception should still provide an alternative date should its stated meeting fall during the Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge. At present the only Lodges affected
are those whose stated meeting is during the second week. But the date
of the Annual Communicatio n may be changed for any year. This has
happened many times in the past. and undoubtedly will happen again.
The contingency should be provided for.
Lodges can avoid annoyance to themselves and unnecessary work
for Grand Lodge by remembering that the fees stated in Article VIII
of the by-laws are only the sums which the Lodge intends to keep for
itself. DO NOT include in these fees : the Masonic Hornes contribution. the George Washington Masonic National Memorial contribution. or the California Masonic Memorial Temple contribution, each
and all of which are in addition to the fees stated in Article VIII.
Much inconvenience, and often error. will be avoided if each Lodge
considering an amendment to its by-laws or a change in its meeting
place will obtain the forms available from the Grand Secretary's office
and read them before action is taken.
We report. happily, that the Lodges continue to adopt the entire
Uniform Code of By-Laws as it now stands. These are the by-laws of
each Lodge, whether adopted by it or not. By keeping them up-to-date
the Lodge makes certain that no conscientious officer is misled by reading by-laws no longer in effect.
We commend and thank the Grand Secretary and his staff for their
good work. their courtesy, and their cooperation.
Most Worshipful. we move that this Grand Lodge approve the
amendments and resolutions listed in Exhibit B of the Grand Secretary's report, with the exception hereinabove specified; that the three
additions heretofore stated be approved; and that the charters of the
two Lodges moving their respective places of meeting to another city
or place be amended in accordance with California Masonic Code
Section 373.
Respectfully submitted,
VIRL BENNEHOFF, Chairman
CHARLES H. G RACE

DONALD M. BINKERD

ROBERT A. WERTSCH

0. MAX SLOAN

B ERTRAND F. LURIE

BERNARD R. SEAMANS

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT C
TRIAL RECORDS
No. 1108-Petition for restoration. A member of Fremont Lodge No.
497. Expelled June 6. 1947.
No. 1291-Petition for restoration. A member of a Colorado Lodge:
tried by Anchor Lodge No. 273. Expelled January 7, 1952.
No. 1709-Petition for restoration. A member of Lakeside Lodge No.
760. Expelled April 4, 1961.
No. 1863-Petition for restoration. A member of San Francisco-Victory Lodge No. 360. Expelled May 5, 1965.
No. 1870-Petition for restoration. A member of Loyalty Lodge No.
529. Suspended June 1, 1965.
No. 1943-Petition for restoration. A member of Semper Vicens Lodge
No. 552. Expelled April 9, 1968.
No. 1953-A member of Moneta Lodge No. 405. Expelled October 3,
1968.
No. 1954-A member of Ascot Lodge No. 538. Acquitted November
6, 1968.
..
No. 1955-An Entered Apprentice of Reseda Lodge No. 666. Expelled
December 5, 1968.
No. 1956-A member of Point Loma Lodge No. 620. Expelled December 5, 1968.
No. 1957-A member of Anacapa Lodge No. 710. Expelled December
10, 1968.
No. 1958-A member of Channel Lodge No. 757. Expelled January 3,
1969.
No. 1959-An Entered Apprentice of Simi Valley Lodge No. 806. Expelled February 5, 1969.
No. 1960-A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623. Expelled March 6.
1969.
No. 1961-A member of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657. Expelled
November 4, 1968.
No. 1962-A member of Riverside Lodge No. 635. Expelled June 5,
1969.
No. 1963-A member of King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260. Expelled June 5. 1969.
No. 1964-A member of Gemini Lodge No. 825. Expelled July 11
1969.
No. 1965-A member of Capital City Lodge No. 499. Expelled August
1. 1969.
No. 1966-A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544. Acquitted August
7, 1969.
No. 1967-A member of EI Rancho Lodge No. 759. Suspended August
7. 1969.
No. 1968-A member of Avenal Lodge No. 772. Reprinted September
10,1969.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE

86

87

The Committee on Grievances:
Your Committee on Grievances has had referred to it, during
the current Masonic year, twenty-two Trial Records. Six of these.
bring applications for restoration, will be presented in separate parts
of this report. As to three others. it is felt that they s~ould b_e called ~o
the particular attention of Grand Lodge, and they will be discussed m
separate reports to be read by members of the committee.
In. Trial Records Nos. 1953, 1954. 1955. 1956, 1957, 1959, 1961,
J962, 1963, 1964, 1965, 1967 and 1968. your Committee has reviewed
each file in detail. We find that due procedure was followed in each case,
that the results are supported by the respective records and that there
were no miscarriages of justice. We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED that in each of the above numbered Trial Records the
judgment, and the result thereof, be ratified. approved and confirmed.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORDS Nos. 1108 AND 1291
Applications for restoration have been presented, respectively, by a
former member of Fremont Lodge No. 497. and a former member of a
Colorado Lodge, who was expelled by Anchor Lodge No. 273.
These applicants were expelled more than sixteen years ago. Each
has presented evidence which satisfies your Committee on Grievances
that he has led a proper life since then, that he has rehabilitated himself
and that he is now a respected member of the community in which he
resides. We therefore offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED that in Trial Records Nos. 1108 and 1291 the applications for restoration be granted and that the petitioners be restored to
all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.
TRIAL RECORDS Nos. 1709, 1863. 1870 AND 1943
In the above numbered Trial Records. applications for restoration
have been presented by former members, respectively. of the following
Lodges;
Lakeside No. 760
San Francisco--Victory No. 360
Loyalty No. 529
Semper Virens No. 552.
Your Committee has carefully reviewed each application and offers
the following resolution:
RESOLVED that in Trial Records Nos. 1709, 1863, 1870 and 1943,
the applications for restoration be denied.
Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

TRIAL RECORD No. 1958
The provisions of Section 732 C.M.C. were invoked against a member of Channel Lodge No. 757 after his conviction of grand theft in the
Superior Court of San Joaquin County. The member did not ask for a
trial and he was automati cally expelled pursuant to that section.
Section 732 C.M.C. provides for automati c expulsio n of a Mason
who ''shall suffer a final judgmen t of conviction of a crime classified
as a felony under the law, and be imprisoned in pursuanc e thereof."
The accused had been convicte d of grand theft which may be punished
by imprison ment in the state prison but in this case he was sentence d to
the county jail which to Californ ia law reduces the crime to a misdemeano r.
It is the belief of the Committ ee on Grievanc es that the classification
of a crime under Section 732 should be classification by sentencin g. In
this particula r case. the sentence having reduced the crime to a misdemeano r, the automati c expulsio n section was not applicable and the
Lodge should have proceede d under the broader Section 692.1 C.M.C.
We therefore off er the following resolutio n:
RESOL VED that the expulsio n of the member be reversed and the
Lodge be directed to proceed under Section 692.1 C.M.C. and the
appropri ate sections thereafte r.
Adopted .
TRIAL RECORD No. 1960
A member of Menorah Lodge No. 623 was convicte d of a crime
da5.>ified as a felony and was imprisoned. The forms used in the trial
were adopted from repealed sections of the Californ ia Masonic Code.
C.M.C. Section 689 provides in part that standard ized forms, maintaint d by the Grand Secretar y, shall be used for all Masonic penal proceedings .
The Gra nd Secretary has available the standard ized forms for the
three penal proceedi ngs authorize d by the C.M.C. The proceedi ng under
Section 732 on the conviction and imprison ment of a felony contains
four standard ized forms. The proceedi ngs under Sections 694 and 697,
trial by a commiss ion. contains twelve standard ized forms. The proceedings under Section 692.1 contains six standard ized forms.
Your Committ ee feels that in the orderly process of Masonic trials
the use of the standard ized forms is mandato ry. The failure to use the
standard ized forms requires a re-trial.
We, therefore , offer the following resolutio n :
RESOL VED that the judgmen t in Trial Record No. 1960 be reversed and remande d for re-trial accordin g to C.M.C. Sections 689 and
732.
Adopted .

TRIAL RECORD No. 1966
Your committee reports on Trial Record No. 1966 as follows:
A ~em~er of Glendale Lodge No. 544 was found not guilty after a
Masonic trial on charges of committing sexual acts with an eight year
old girl.
The accused had pleaded not guilty to the Masonic charges but did
not appear at the trial nor offer any evidence.
He had been convicte d by a jury of a violation of Section 6i7a of the
Californi a Penal Code. The only evidence introduc ed at the Masonic
trial consisted of the criminal trial transcrip t. It was properly received in
evidence under Section 7 I 8 Masonic Code. The transcrip t clearly shows
his guilt and your committee is of the opinion that the finding of not
guilty should be set aside, the accused declared guilty and expelled.
We, therefore , off er the following resolutio n:
RESOL YEO, that the finding of not guilty by the Trial Commissioners in Trial Record No. 1966 be reversed , that the judgmen t be
changed to guilty of unmason ic conduct in committing sexual acts with
a minor girl and that he be expelled from all of the rights and privileges
of Masonry .
Adopted .
Respectf ully submitte d,
FOLGER EMERSON, Chairma n
J. WARREN MANUEL
CHARLES BECKER
R1cHARo C. RoBBINs
ALPRED J. McCoURTNEY
HAROLD E. RowE, JR.
N
HAROLD S. MORRISO

88

89

90

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT D
VETERAN BUTTONS
Issued September 1, 1968 to September l, 1969- 982
Total 50 Year Buttons Issued to Date:- 13,385
Total 75 Year Buttons Issued to Date:-11
NAM!! ANO LOOGI! NO.

OAT!! OP RAISING

Abel. Alexander G. (678) ............ 6-26-19
Abraham. Alfred J. (431) ............ 6- 7-19
Adams, Frank (589) ...................... 3- 9-1 8
Adams, George K. (113) .............. 4-12-19
Adams, John. Q. (2) ...................... 4- 4-14
Adams, William E. (363) ............ 11-28-18
Admire. Amzie O. (355) .............. 9-19-18
Ahl. Charles B. (161) .................. 1-28-18
Aitken. James (462) ...................... 8- 2-18
Amls.FrankA._(157) .................... 11- 5-18
Anderson, Ezekiel, P. ( 192) ........ 9-18-18
Anderson. Forrest N . ( 196) ........ 4-23-17
Anderson. Frank A. ( 593) .......... 6-29-18
Anderson, Frank E. (291) ......... .12-16-18
Anderson. Frank E. (358) ............ 2-20-19
Anderson. Sr., Fred E. (491) ...... 4-25-19
Anderson, Gustaf L. (442) .......... 7-23-19
Anderson, James R. ( 178) ............ 1-22-17
Anderson. Lawrence W. (406) .. 2-17-19
Anstlss. George P. (259) .............. 3-20-18
Arnold, Arthur L. (643) .............. 11-14-18
Arnold, Basil L. (87) .................... 3-22-19
Arnold, Lawrence F. {373) .......... 5-28-19
Aronson, Leon (216) .................... 6-28-19
Asher, Edwin C. (461) ................ 7-26-17
Atkinson. Robert C. (155) ............ 4-29-19
Avis. Calvin W . (457) ................ 6-29-18
Awl. Elmer M. (192) .................... 2-11-19
Axford, Harry W. (179l .............. 1-28-19
Bailey, Forre~t H. ( 122 .............. 7-13-18
Baker, Franklin L. (578 .............. 5-21-19
Ballantyne, Earle J. (210) ............ 3-20-19
Banta, Bert B. (460) ...................... 1- 6-19
Barnard, E?ward C. (369) .......... 6-12-19
Barnes. Winfield N. (591) .......... 4-19-19
Barr, Allan S. (419) ...................... 4-23-19
Barr, E rnest A. (214) .................... 6- 5-19
Bartell, Charles D. (57) ................ 2-18-19
Bashor, ErnestG. (352) ................ 7-30-18
Baston, Solomon E. (216) ............ 3-24-19
Basye, Allen G. (303) .................. 3- 6-19
Batchelor, William (301) ............. 5-16-19
Battson, Paul {725) ...................... 4-17-18
Beadle, William N . (254) ............ 4-18-19
Bear, William P. (450) ................ 3- 3-19
Bechtel. Fred W. (596 ) ................ 5-19-19
Beck, Norman C. (3 19) ................ 3-25-19
Becker, Arthur C. (358) .............. 3-20-19
Beckerleg, Thomas W. (725) ...... 5-31-19
Beene, Walter R. (633 ) ................ 8-14-17
Behrens, Louis A. (168) .............. 10-11-18
Beinacher, Jack (170) .................... 5- 1-19
Belisle, Cleyve V. (296) .............. 12- 2-18
Bell. Samuel (118) ........................ 4- 4-19

NAM!! ANO LOOGI! NO.

DAT!! OP RAISING

Bell. W illiam P. (337) .................. 3-15-19
Bende~, Willard T. ( 355) ............ 7-10-18
Benedict. Glenn E. ( 178) ............ 5-22-16
Bennett, Dana H. (513) ................ 12-26-18
Berger, Frederick \'A/. ( 57) .......... 8-20-14
Berggren. Arnold R. (241) .......... 2-19-19
Bernhard. John A. (388 ) .............. 7-25-16
Berwick. James T. (363) .............. 3-15-19
Best. Edwin B. (269) .................... 5- 1-19
Bevis. Harry R. ( 150) .................. 10- 8-18
Beyer. Charles E . (528) .............. 4-10-16
Biele, W alter J. (272) .................. 2-17-19
Birch. William A. (178) .............. 1-30-18
Bird. Milo A. (76) ........................ 5-28-19
Bishop, James B. (401) ................ 10-17-18
Bixler. Jacob C. (507) .................. 5- 7-19
Black, Matthew (470) .................. 2- 6-19
Black. Pines M. ( 431) .................. 8- 2-19
Blackwood. William (87) ............ 6-21-19
Blair. Frank P. (210) .................... 9- 9-18
Blaisdell. Ralph E . (117) .............. 10-22-18
Blodgett. Clarence M. (58) .......... 11-27-18
Blount. George W. (547) ............ 8-10-18
Bode. Emil F. (225) ...................... 2-11-19
Bogie, Raymond J. (202)... ........... 3-25-19
Bonde, S r.. George ( 167) ............ 3- 8-19
Bonham. Harley L. (657) ............ 8-13-18
Bonner, Alfred W. (370) .............. 6-27-19
Bonstin, Albert H. (215) .............. 7-24-19
Boodt, Sr., William A. (13) ........ 11- 4-18
Borcha~dt. Benjamin (162) .......... 8-31-18
Bornstein, Samuel P. (115) .......... 6-25-19
Boruck, Leland M. (10) ................ 1- 7- 19
Boterenbrood. Richard (225) ...... 8-20-18
Boulden, Robert M. (389) ............ 6-11-19
Bowerman, Ralph L. (5) .............. 4-26-19
Bowie. William N. (547) ............ 5- 3-19
Bowlby, Carrhart S. (700) .......... 11-30- 18
Boyd. Edwin F. (158) .................. 5- 9-19
Boyd, Eugene A. (111) ................ 12-18-18
Boylan, Bayard T., Jr................... 5- 6- 19
Braley, Hallie R. ($38) ................ 6-25-19
Brand: Frederick J. (375) ............ 8-26-12
Brandm. Harold B. (312) ............ 5-23-19
Brant, LeRoy V. (210) ................ 3- 6-19
Breck, G eorge 0 . (384) ................ 8-27-18
Bredlow. Albert P. (435) .............. 6-28-19
Breton. Rene J. (431) .................... 3- 4-19
Brett, Edward C. N. (367) .......... 4-14 -19
Brodie, Ralph N. (551) ................ 2-18-19
Brooke, Harold 0. (i42) .............. 2-20-19
Brookover, Arthur D. (134) ........ 6- 16-16
Brooks, Ralph I. (272) ..-------·-· 8-10-18
Brown. George W. (134) ....._.10-25-18

NAMB AND LOOGI! NO.

DAT!! OP RAISING

Brown. Harold G. (375) .............. 5-26-19
Brown. Junius H. (273) ................ 9-13-18
Brown. Noah E . (307) ................ 4-17-19
Bruck. Clarence H. D. (458) ........ 8-3 1-18
Bryan, Theodore W . (16) ............ 1-29-19
Buckmaster. Guy W. (567) ........ 5-28- 19
Buhman.. Peter H. ( 336) .............. 12-14- 18
Bullis. Richard 0. (662) .............. 12- 18-17
Burdick. Marcus R. (347) ............ 7-24-19
Burke, Andrew ( 549) .................... 1-15-19
Burrows, Voyle M. (593) ............ 9- 3-14
Burster, Charles (271) .................. 6- 3-19
Buschke. Adolph W. (393) .......... 1-17 -19
Bush. Melville P. ( 324) ................ 5-29-19
Butka, Lawrence J. ( 546) ............ 7- 2- 18
Butler, Charles A. (271) .............. 2- 8-19
Butler, David W. (542) ................ 9-13-18
Calder, James A. (357) ................ 4- 1-19
Camm, John R. (180) .................. 5-22-19
Camp, Frank (434) ...................... 11- 2- 17
Canoles. John J. (191) .................. 5-13-19
Caper, Charles (158) ...........- ..... .12-26- 18
Caravaccl, Ferruccio (17) .......... 6-21-18
Carlson. Elmer ( 226) .................... 6- 10-19
Carlson. George H. (215) ............ 9-23- 18
Carol. Max H. (313) .................... 1-24-1 9
Carrier, Fulton M. (396) ............ 12-14-18
Carrington, Albert C. (396) ........ 6-17-19
Caruthers, Thomas R. (272) ........ 8-27-18
Casselman, George C. (230) ...... 4-22-18
Casterson. Alfred B. (321) .......... 8-30-18
Caulfield. Chester A. (396) .......... 4-29-19
Chapman, Frederick H. (622) .... 1-15-19
Chap,riell. Howard F. (193) ........ 4-22-18
Chat eld. Roy E. (230r ................ 1 l- 16-1 8
Chemberlen. Frederick T. (567) 5-24-16
Clare, Luther B. (197) ................ 1-15-1 8
Clarence V. (355) ...... 4-16-19
Clark,
Clark, ay_R. (144) ...................... 4-29-19
Clark, ou1s J. (688) .................... 10- 4- 16
Clemons. Farish F. (375) ............ 8-12-18
Cloer, Everett L. (303) ................ 10- 3- 18
Cloer, Thomas L. (303) .............. 10- 3- 18
Cobb, Howard (359) .................. 10-27-11
Coddington, Charles W. (349) .. 4-26- 19
Coe. Dave A. (273) ...................... 7-19-19
Cohen, William J. (623) .............. 2-22- 19
Cole, D onald H. (462) ................ 5-23-19
Cole, Leslie E. (38) .................- .. 5- 14-19
Collin, Leonidas E. (38l .............. 9-17- 10
Collins. Prank H . (293 .............. 7-22-19
Collison. Elmer C. (224 .............. 11-21-18
Colver, Seth I. (334) .................... 2-13-19
Combs, Giles B. (247)... ............... 12- 16-18
Conaway, Raymond E. (505) .... 3- 7-19
Constans, George M. (242) ........ 3- 6-19
Converse. Elisha E. (291) .......... 3-15-17
Cooke, Edwin D. (355) ................ 1-17-19
Cooley, Lester P. (87) ................ 7- 4-19
Cooley, Ralph H. (743) .............. 11-27-16
Corren, Abe M. ( 19) .................... 2-21-19

f"

NAM!! AND LOOGI! NO.

91
DA Tl! OP RAISING

Cosgrove. James E. (392) ............ 1-27-19
Courtiour, William J. (504) ........ 6-11-19
Cowan, James A. (515) ................ 5-11-19
Cowley, Ralph E. (602) .............. 7-22-18
Coy, Lemuel L. (214) .................. 4-15- 19
Craddock. William C. (341) ........ 7-21-18
Craig, Arch W . (241 l .................. 11-22-18
Craig, James G. (389 .................. 5-14-19
Craig, Ralph P. (336 .................. 11-30-18
Craik, James (346) ...................... 5-20- 19
Crandall. Cecil A. (458) .............. 10- 4-18
Crider. John L. (392) .................... 1- 17-19
Crocket. Will G. (215) ................ 4-17-19
Cross, Horace K. (103) ................ 2-27-19
Crow, Alfred J. (420) .................. 4-22-19
Crow, Frank (367) ...................... 1-17-19
Cuneo. John C. ( 206) .................. 10-12-18
Cunningham, Lawrence N. (103) 1-16-19
Curr~n, Frederick S. ( 2) .............. 2-13- 19
Currie. Audrey C. (746) .............. 9- 3-18
Dalzell. William R. (626) ............ l l- 1-16
Damon, Sumner J. (193) .............. 6-21-18
Danner, Edgar N . (303) .............. 5-21-17
Darke, Roy E. (466) .................... 11- 4-18
D"Aule. John F. S. (566) .............. 6-24-19
Daum. Charles H. (259) .............. 7-24-11
Davidson, Allister C. (458) ........ 7-26-18
Davis. Avaron B. (216) .............. 6-2S-19
Davis, Earl A. ( 226) .................... 4-24-19
Davis. Rees (277) ........................ 5- 1-19
Davis, Volla 0 . (695) .................. 6- 8-18
Davisson, Delos W. (387) .......... 6-19-19
Dawson, William J. (136) .......... 7-17-18
Dawson, William 0. (259) ........ 5-24-19
Day, Thomas F. (396) ................ 6-21-19
DeFoe, John B., Jr. (269) ............ 6- 3-18
deGhetaldi, Guido 0. ( 199) ........ 6- 7-19
DeGuerre, Harold (30l ................ 8-23-18
DeHaan, Abel H. (19 ................ 3-22-19
Deighton, Herbert H. (323) ........ 3-20-19
Delp, Amos S. (376) .................... 9- 6- 18
Deme. Wheeler M. (336) ............ 2-15-19
Dempsey, Glennville A. (35) ...... 10-26-17
Denh?m· Frank P. ( 180) ............ 2-25-18
Dennis, Douglas B. (434) ............ 2-16-17
Devoto, Francis L. (225) .............. 10-15- 18
D~ ckey, Clyde V . (305) ..............10- 2-17
D1erlam, James S. (229) ....____ 8-31-18
DiGrazla, Guido (30) .-.............. 6-26-19
Dill, Charles R. (652) .................. 11-20-16
Ditwell, Emile V . (162) .............. 8-16-18
Dobbins, WilJiam S. (134) .......... 5- 6-19
Dobrusky. Emanuel A. (449) ...... 1-15-19
Dodge, W alter J. (178) .............. 3-16-15
Doidge, Elmer E. (462) .............. 9-16-18
D oolittle, James H. (319) ............ 8-16-18
Dougall. Matthew (519) .............. 6- 7-19
Dowlinfi Chester E. (569) .......... 5- 1-17
Drew, rank M. (268) ................ 2-21-19
Dreyfus, Jr .. Louis G. (192) ........ 9-18-18
Drollet, Willlam S. (692)---···- 1- 2-19

92

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

NAM!!. AND LODGE. NO.

OAT!!. OP RAISING

Duff. Samuel M. ( 327) .......•....•...10-29-08
Duggan. Frank M. (222) ............ 4- H-19
Dunbar, H arold A. ( 468) ----------- 9- 4-1 8
Duncan, Ralpb J. (405) .........•...... 8-10-18
Dunham. Leland S. (6 1) ....... - ..... 11-23-18
Dunn, Fremont S. (30l ···-·········-·· 9-24-1 8
Dunn. H erbert I. (247 -----·-··-·-·-·· 5- 9-19
Dunson, Wooison G. (576) ____ 1-26-18
D urand, Milton J. (375) ..... ------- 3-31 -19
Dutil, E mil J. (375) ...................... 5-26- 19
Dyer, James E. (20) ......... --------·-· 5-1 5- 19
Edlin, Henry M. (136) .-•...•----··- 6- 17-19
Edmunds. Amasa (301) .__...•...... 12-21-18
Edwards, Junius W. ( 113) .......... 4-24-19
Edwards. Roger G. (291) ............ 7-31-1 9
Eggert. E mil 0. (54 2 ) -·········-·--·- 9- 11- 15
Elchendorff, Bruno E . (260 ) ...... 5-28-19
Elder, Charles K. ( 376) .............. 8- 1- 19
Elkins, Edgar A. (450 ) ...........___ 10-28-18
Elkins. John A. (269 ) -----·-··--· 7- 6-1 8
Eller, Abe B. (674) ··-·····---····-······ 3-10- 19
E lliott. Percy E. ( 400) ··-··········-- 5-24-19
Ellis. Robert C. (268 ) ------··-···----- 7-18-19
Elson. Irving (520 ) ......·----·······-- 4-14-19
Ely. Robert H. ( 103) ·········-··-······ 7-23- 19
Emmerlin11. W alter (4-1) .............. 2-22- 19
Emmert, Robert W. (394) ._______ .12-30-1 8
Encoyand, Emi le ( 17) .................. 9-28- 18
Enders, Paul C. (260) ..............•... 11-1 8-18
En.gland, George C. (4 21 ) ·-----···· 12- 12-1 8
E ricson. Herman E. (259) ...- ..... 2- 5-1 8
E rlanger, Steiner E. ( 120) ..----·· S-21- 19
Espy, Thomas W. (321) ............ 2-2 1- 19
Esse. Earl J. (104) ........................ 3-26- 18
Etchisen. William A. (668) ........ 2- 1- 19
Evangelista. Honoria C. (260) .... 7-26-19
Evans, George A. ( 346) ······---····· 2-10- 19
Evans, Loren L. ( I 28) .................. 10- 5-18
Evans, Otto L. (533) ................_ 5- 9-19
Ewl~g. Roy E. (356) .................... 9-23-18
Fabricius. Harry R. (71 61········- 3-26-19
F ardo. Frederick A . (202 .•........ 3-19-18
Farwell. George M . (349 _ _ 5-27-19
Farwell. William H. (461 -········ 4-1 7- 19
Faw, Claude T . (403) ·-····---- 8-15-18
Fawcett. Thomas F. (558 ). ______ 8-12-18
Feederle. Fred J. (139) ................ 5-28-19
Fenn, Ernest R. (113) .•................ 9-14-18
Ferguson, Horace P. ( 126) ..........12- 2- 111
Ferguson, Jr., John (449) ___....... 7- 9-19
Ferma. ~~hony J. ( 222) .....·-···· 7-H-19
Feutz. Wilham E. (368)·-·········- 5-17-1 8
Feykert, Peter J. (44) ----···-···- 6-30-15
Finch, Earl D . (300) ··············-·- 6-30-19
Finck, Lloyd V. (I) ...·-······-- 3- 6-19
Findlay, Ernest W. (415) _ __ 5-21 - 19
F inzelberq , Francis X . (475) ____ 9-11-18
Firfires. Michael N. (26.. ) ._ _ 8-20-18
F isher. Chester A. (126) ....._. ____ 9-11-18
F itzgerald, Frederick J. (278) ..._ 6-17-18
FlamS(>n, George H . (286)----··· 9, 2-18

NAM!!. AND LODGE. NO.

93

OAT!!. OP RAISING

Follett. Earl M. (366 ) .................. 3-29-19
Followe ll. Floyd H. (259) .......... 12-13-18
Forbes, Charles A. (462) ............ 2-24- 19
Forbes, Thomas R (595) ····-···-··· 3- 1-19
Fo rman, George H . (551) .......... 8-25-H
Fo rner, Louis R. (1) .................... 7-11-18
Fo rster. James T. (478) .·-··········· 6- 7-19
Poster, John P. (226) ................•. 6-26-19
Poster, W illia m A. (464) ............ 8-20-18
Fouch, H arry A . (462) ................ 5-27-18
Fowble. Sr .. James R. (407) ........ 2-17-19
Frank. ! mar ( 470) ··············--···---· 8-12-19
Franklin, Harry A . (520) ............ 5-26-19
Frazier, William C. ( 110) .......... 2-22-19
Frederick, M alcolm C. (1 92) ...... 2- 3-19
1:redson, Geor!Je E. ( 84) .............. 3- 8-19
Friedman, Philip (506) ................ 5-13-18
Frietzsche, George F. (38) .......... 8- 13-18
Fronmuller, Theodore C. ( 188 ) _ 2-29- 19
Frosio, Joseph M. (441 ) .............. 2- 18-19
Frostholm, Harry M . (468 ) ........ 9- 4-18
Fry, Edward C. (293) .................. 5- 9-19
Fulghum. Cuthbert M. (215) ...... 3- 10- 19
P urer. Henry J. (529) .·---······- -···· 1-21- 19
Furry, Steven N . (256) ................ 4-24-19
G<tble, Allison E. (497) .............. 3-22-19
Gaetke , George 0. 122) .............. 6-28-19
G a!Jer, Glenn 0 . (811 ) ......•.....•... 6-19-18
Galle11os. Peter J. (349) .............. 4-15-19
Ga rdner. Charles H . (327) .......... 2-27-19
Gardner, Charles W . (355) ......_ 9-30-18
Gardner. Harold F . (462) .·-·-····· 5-29- 18
Ga rdner. Ralph R. (370) ....·-···--· 8-16-18
Ga rfield , Chester A. ( 169) ..•......._11-27-18
Garrett, Earl E. (556) ......._____.10-19-15
Geballe. Oscar ( .. 70)..____.......•..• 8- 5-19
Gee, E rnest G. (415) ...............- ... 3-1 5-16
Geisler. A rthur M. (349) ..- ......... 10- 4- 18
Gibboney. Carl M . (327) ......·-··· 3- 12-19
Gibbons. Albert ( 209 ) -·········-·---·· 5-13-19
Gibbs. Glenn A. (392) .................. 3-17-19
Giles, Joseph H . (58) _______________ 12-20-18
Giller. H enry M. (451) ..-------· 12- 17- 18
Gilliland. William P. (371 ) -····-·· 5-23-19
Gilmo re, Carl F. (448) ........___ 3-18-19
Gladys, Anthony R. (355) .....___ 4-29-19
Goble, Elton S. (634) .................... 7-12-19
Goethe. Edward C. (245) .........._12-14-18
Gold. Aaron (533) ........................ 7-19-19
Goldberg, Walter M . (3H) ... _ _ 8-21-18
Goldberger, Leo H. (721}·-·····- 2-21-19
Goldwater, Hill H. (462 ---····· 1-24- 19
Good win, Dwight H . (37 ) .....•.•..12-19-18
Goodridge, Harry (478) ····-······11-19-18
Gordon, Kenneth W . (9). _ ___ 2- 15-18
Gotfredson. Ira B. (319l ---·--·---·· 2-20-19
Gothie, Burt (191) ..___..............._10- 2- 18
Gould, Harry (103) ...•••· -····-··- 4-19-19
Graber, Roy E. (293) .·-········-···· 1-11-19
Grah:1m, Archie 0. (38) .........•.... 5-31-19
GTaham, Harvey L. (3.f8) __ ,__ 8-2..-18

NAMB AND LOOGI! NO.

DAT!!. OP RAISING

Granlcher. Irving H. (455) .......... 5-20..19
Granz. Louis E. ( 30) ···-·--····--······· 4- 29- 18
Greeley, Fred C. (272) ................ 7-29- 18
Green. H arvey A. ( 186) .............. 12-28- 18
Greenberg, Stuart N. ( 136) ........ 7- 2- 18
Greene. James A . (327) ................ 1-30- 19
Greenfield. Charles ( 42) .............. 3-28- 19
(iro.ss, W illia m (358) ········--·--·--·--· 10- 1-1 8
Grouard, Franklin L. ( 241} .......... 7-13- 18
Gunnett, Gilbert E. (648) .......... 1-26- 19
Gutridge. Amos W . M. (290) .... 2-22-19
Gwinn, Charles D . ( 534) ............ 11-26- I 8
Hackett. Arthur S. ~20) ................ 1- 2- 18
Haddy. George H . 3) .................. 8-26- 18
Hahn. Herbert L. ( 99) ................ 9- 3- 17
Haigh, James C. (53 1) .. ............... 1-13- 19
Hair.es. Wilbur H .. Sr. (20) ...... 5-31-1 9
Hall. Egbert H . ( 52 1) .................. 9-30- I 8
Hall. George H . (397) ·············-·-- 8- 1-1 8
Hall. Peirson M. ( 458 >-···--······--·· 6-28- I 8
Halsey, Ray N . (648) .................. 6-16- 19
Hanna, Joseph A. ( 168) ................ 5-1 2-17
Hansen. Lawrence P. (I H ) ........ 7- 8- 19
Hansen. Oliver W. (449) ............ 11-27-1 8
Hansen, Sig urd (723) ·····-··-········ 6-24-19
Hanson. H arry A. ( 394) ····-·····---· 3-17- 19
Hanson, Olaf H. (67 1) -····----·-···· 3- 6-1 9
Haridson. Ernest D. ( 291 ) .......... 3-20- 19
Hardy, William G. ( 758) ............ 3-17-19
Hargrave, Herbert R. (530) ........ 9-27-18
Harper, Madison T. (178) .......... 5- 15- 18
Harris, Albert M. ( 429 ) .............. 12-20-18
Harris, John R. 123 ) ...................... 5- 9-19
Harrison, Jay W . (528) .., .......____ 4-1 6- 19
Hart. Arthur H. ~362) .................. 4-19-19
Harts. Gtt S. ( 33) .................... 4-24-19
Hartzell. am C. ( 393) ············-·-· 5- 9-19
Harvey. Leo M. (320) .................. 9-25- 18
Hathaway. Julian G. (241 ) ........ 5-21- 19
Hause, E dw ard K. (737) ............ 6-26-19
Hausmann, Louis C. (402) .......... 5-27- 19
Hawken. Walter D . (370) .......... 7-25-19
Haworth, George W. (259) ........ 1-23-18
Hawthorne, Earl E. (4 19) ............ ... 21 - 19
Heathcote, 'W aldemar L. (392) .. 9-21-1 8
Heathman, W alter W . (246) .... 9-21-18
Heltwood. Alfred S. (H I) .......... 5-22-18
Hemstreet, Elmo L. (288)·-·------··· 3- 7-1 9
Henderson, Ellis W. (725) ....... ... 3-24- 19
Heney, Paul W . ( 180) ................ 8- 8-18
Henry, Roy P. (435 ) .................... 8-20- 18
Henshaw, Jack B. (61 l--···-·····-··· 7-26-1 8
tkrron, Geo rge W. (336) ............ 7-27-18
tkrron, Jack C. (680) .................. 11-26-18
iLertle, Henry C. (349 ) ................ 9-1 0- 18
H sac. Harry F. ( 87) ······-····--·-- 3- 6- 19
Hewitt, E dward M. ( 30 1) .......... 1- 18-19
Hickman , Ralph A. (622) ............ 7-28-1 9
run.gins, Arthur M . ( 517) ............ 10- 12- 18
HiJL Luther M . (358) ................•..• 1-23-19
Stanley H . G. (320)·-·-··· 3-29-19

NA M!!. ANO LODGE. NO.

OAT!!. OP RAISING

Hislop, William A. (431i ·······- -·- 2' 2- 19
Hitchcock, Leslie I. 204 ····-··----· 5- 9- 19
Hobbs, W illiam H. (35 ···-·····--- 9-2 1-1 8
Hocber, Eugene G. L. ( 461 ) ........ 7-29-19
Hoffman, Sr., Frank H. 1335) .... 7-1 0-19
Ho!Jrefe. H erman C. (375) ........... 2- 17-19
Holland, Leslie R. (624) ............ 1- 2- 19
Hollander, O scar (320) ................ 6-29-18
H olley. W illiam W. (421 ) .......... 4-16- 18
H ollister, Chester A. (70 1) .......... 4-25-19
Holmes, Prank D . (542) .............. 7-28- 19
Hooper, Melvin ( 144 ) .................. 3- 18- 19
H opkins. Cyril E. (567) .............. 6- 10.. 19
Hopperstead, Warren L. (272) .. 8- 20-1 8
Hornung, Ha rry E. (400 ) ............ 11-23- 18
I-louse. Ellis H . (6 11) .................... 7- 3- 19
Howard, Frederick \V. (61) ...... 2- 2-17
Hoyt, Richard C. (208) ................ 1-1 4- 19
H ubbard, Leo E . ( 457) ................ 9-23- 18
Hudiburg. Samuel J. ( 214) .......... 5-27-19
Hughes, Harry W. (497) ............1 1-26-18
H umphrey, Charles C. ( 103) ···-·- 2-22- 19
Humphrey, Louis A. (24 7) .......... 2~ 7-19
H umphreys, John I. (319) .......... 5-22-17
Hunt, Mose~ J. (767) .................... 9-21- 18
Hunter, Bertie E. (336) ................ 4-27- 18
Hunter, Robert G. (449) .............. 5-28- 19
Hunter, Will iam J. (449) ............ 5-28-19
H urlburt, E ugene F. ( 3) ..............11-18- 18
Hurst, Eugene H. ( 144) ···········--· 6-17 -19
Hurt. Grover G . (204) ................ 12-19- 18
Huse, Barnett ( 128) ...................._ 7- 11- 18
H utcheson, Ferdinand T. (580) .. 12-21-18
Hutchins, Lester A. (442) .......... 9- 7-18
H utchins. William E. (326) ........ 4- 1-19
H yslop, Charles A. (206 ) ............ 2-20-19
Iliff. James C. ( 410) ...................... 6-26- 19
Innes, Calder ( 188) ...................... 7-19-19
Irvin, Reuben ). (642) .................. 6-26- 19
Irvine, S r., Ro bert W. (117) ...... 10-22-18
Israel, Edgar J. (344) .................... 4-23-19
Jackson. Clarence C. (315) .......... 2-20-17
Jacobs, Ernest G . (667) ................ 8-27- 18
Jacobs. Harold A. ( 136) ............ 6-10-19
Jacobs, Jose{>h J. (2 16) ................ 4-28-19
Jankovsky, Adolph J. (782 ) ........ 7-23-1 7
J;isper, Earl S. ( 129) .................... 3-H-1 9
e ffers, George E. ( 362 ) .............. ,._ 9-1 9
ennings, Merle L. ( 244) ............ 5-1 9-19
ohnson. A xel V. (393) ................ 2-2 1- 19
ohnson. Ed ward H . (355) .......... 11-18-15
Johnson, Ernest L. (388 ) .............. 6- 10-19
Johnson, Harry W . (226) ............ 4-17-19
Johnson, H ubert D. (173) ............ 3-22-1 6
o hnson. Le land P. ( 460) ............ 6- 2-1 9
ohnstad, Jenins S. (61) ···········--··- 6-30-19
ones, George C. (468) ................ 11-19-18
o nes, Ha rrison A. ( 22) ···········--·-- 3- 24- 19
ones, La wrence N. (486) ............ 1-23-19
Joost, Walter (360) ...................... 1-25-1 9
Joseph, Edwin (1 20) •................•.. 8-29-18

l
J

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

95

PROCEED INGS OP THE

94

DATI! OP RAISfNG

NAME AND LODGE NO.
NAMB ANO LODG E NO.

DA TI! OP RAJSlNG

NAMB AND LODGB NO.

DA.TI! OP RAISING

4-18-19

Juda, Eugene M. (21 6) ................ 6-28-19 Lewis, W alter E. (268) ................
.... 3-29- 19
Juenger, Arthur D. (378 ) ............ 7-29-18 Lincoln, John (136)R.................
(61) ..... . 11-25-18
Kamp, Phillip 0. (599) ................ 12-16-18 Lindgren, Benjamin . {3S)
.......... 8-27-18
Lindstrom, Cidron F
(520) ..... ......... 9- 8- 18
Kanin, Samuel
6-20-19
Kasch, George . ( 351) ................ 9- 13- 17 Little. Thomas T. (3~8 1.. .............. 7-14- 19
Kaufman , George ( 405) _.............. 5-20- 19 Looman, Milo D. {41 7) ................
.......... 12-17-18
Ka ufman, Jack (191) ............... ..... 4-22-19 Loughery . Robert J. {435)
. 8-26-19
Kettle, Andrew (324) ............... .... 10-28-16 Lowe. James M. (435) ............... 2- 6-18
Keyster, Charles L. (450) ............ 9-27-18 Lucas, Arthur M. (719) ..............
............ 10-16-17
Kickhofel. Edwin L. ( 462) ............ 6-23-19 Lucas. \Villiam W . (30)
........ 6-27-19
Killeen, Benjamin L. ( 429) .......... 12- 6-18 Lundstrom, Byron A. (393) .... 4-17-19
Kinch, Herbert W. (290) ............ 8-10- 18 Lundy. Harold ('!!) ...............
6-27-19
King, Alexander (272) ................ 11- 15-1 5 Lunsman , Henry C. {393) ............
Lyman, Jr. R ichard F. (468 ) ........ 1-22- 19
K~ng, Arthur W. (559) ................ 4- 11-19
5- 9-19
King, Charles A. (233) ................ 8-21-16 Lynch. Harry H. (393) ................ 4- 3-19
Lynn, Bedford (387) ..... ..............
King. F oster R. (320) .................. 6-30-11
8-13-19
King, Leslie L. (210) .................... 5- 8-19 Lyons, William M. ( 196) ............ 9-25- 18
Kingman, Ivan F. (348) ............ 7-2'1 - 19 Maas, Erwin H . ( 128 ) ................
.... 6-19-19
Kingsbak er, H arry B. (335) ........ 1-30- 19 M acartney, Chester N. {624)
8 -27-18
Kinkenda ll, Emery C. ( 561 ) ........ 10- 17-18 Macauley, Donald S. (136) ........
........ 10-31-09
Kipke, Otto H. (244 ) .................... 8-22-18 MacDona ld. Ch1rence ((323)
........ 4-18-19
Kirsch, Harry (642) .................... 11-22-18 M acKenzie, Hugh F. 370)
W.
r
Alexande
ol,
8
MacNich
19-1
8................
10)
(6
M.
Clifton
Kizer.
(260) ............... .......................... 5-21-19
Kleiner, Theodore (242) ............ 5- 13- 19
Charlrs C. (224 ) .......... .. 6- 5- 18
adson,
M
3-18
8..............
..
317)
(
R.
David
Knape,
. Paul S. (319) ............. 12-19-18
Mahoney
1-19
2-2
................
(40)
E.
George
Knight,
10- 18- 18
Knights, Charles H. (384) ............ 3-31-19 M alott, Reginald K. (242) ............
6- 2-19
............
(264)
H.
Elmer
ankins,
M
3-24-19
........
(204)
L.
Knowlton , Everett
... 8-26-18
Kohlbech er, Joseph C. ( 166) ........ 4-23-19 M arcus, Aaron G. (774) ..........
.......... 1- 6.-12
Kott. Karl ( 198 ) ............... .. ........... 8-2 1- 17 Marker, W illiam M.58(464)
) ............... 10-11-18
Kraft, Emil C. (57) ................... 9- 18-18 Marks, Dave X. ( '1 {61) ......... .... 10-21 - 16
Krause, Raymond C. (506) ........ 7-20-18 M arks, Mauri ce B.
4-16-19
Kresler, H arry G. (373) .............. 1-13-15 Mnrks, Samuel (335) .................... 6- 6- 19
Kristensen, Holberg P. ( 145) ...... 7- 1-1 8 M arsden , Percy J. (321) ..............
( 336) .... 9-12-18
Krogh, Wilbur C. (212) .............. 8- 2- 18 Marshall . Frederick W.
.... 2-17-19
Kroll. Frederick W. (5 17) ............ 8-26- 18 Marsha ll, _R oy (H2) ................
( 268 ) .......... 11-14- 18
Kugler. Herman (24) .................... 12-23- 18 M.irtenstem. john K.19) .................. 3-10-19
Kurtz, W illiam C. ( 323) .............. 8- 8- 18 Martin, Bruce P . ( ................ .... 3- 18-19
Kushins, Charles (55 1) ................ 7-18-18 M athis, Harry (388) .................... 5-10-19
Lacey. Lloyd E. (336) ................ 2-14-19 May. Albert L. (470) .................... l- 2-17
La Ferrera, Don V. (374) ............ 7-17- 16 ~·foyer, Jay E . (452)
................ 8-31-18
Lafrcnz, Lnurence D. (449) ........ 4-30-19 Mead. Arthur T. (633)
T. ( 143 ) .............. 7- 19-19
Lake, Thomas 0. (489 ~ ................ 6.- 6-19 M ealer, Darrell J. (636) ................ 7- 2-19
Lamb, Rayon B. (303 ................ 9- 19-18 M ee, William
) .................. 11-21- 18
Lambert. John D. ( 126 ................ 4-28-19 M eikle, Clifford (101
........ 4- 19-19
Lang, Clement M. (299 ) ............ 8- 9-18 M cinberg er, Her rne1 n (455)
5-21=19
Lanros, H arvey F. (356 ) ............ 1- 4-1 6 Melville, William D. (61 i-----------168 ............ 5-23 19
Larsen, Jens L. ( 180) .................... 5-21-19 Memll. Charles H . ((501
1-16.-19
............
N.
Francis
Larson. Bernard G. ( 225 ) ............ 8-27-18 Merrill.
................ 5-23- 19
La uner, Nelson M. (659 ) ............ 9- 5-1 8 Merrill, Frank D. (268 )................
.. 8-13-19
52)
Lau ppc. Frank E. (3) .................... 3-31-19 M etcalf, JosephR. (7( 1)
.................... 8-3 1-18
Lauritzen, Alf E. (409) ................ 4-29- 19 Mettier. Stacy H. (93) ................ 11-30- 18
Lavoy, Irving A. (483) ................ 11 - 4-18 M eyer, Alfred
.............. IO- 4-18
Lawrence . Rey C. (296) .............. 6- 2-19 Meyer, Arthur E. (392)...............
. 5-30-19
168)
(
C.
Harry
Meyer,
17-19
4............
(214)
W.
Jalmar
Lawson,
( 120) ................ 8-24-18
0.
Irwin
Meyer.
9
4-1
1................
(206)
R.
eWitt
Lee. D
(42) ............ 6.-13-19
Lee, Ha rry J. ( 188) ...................... 2-23-18 M icha elson, Mayer (528) ............ 9-14-18
.
W
Harry
Michel.
12-26-18
......
................
(206)
Lee, Rosco$.
(673) ........ 8-16-18
Levey, Bert (120) ............._............ 8-22-18 Mikkelsen. Martin W..................... 3-22-19
(363)
Charles
Miles,
18
9-27......
................
(462)
Lev y, Arthur
2-18-16
Lewu, Thomas M. (551) ............ 7-22-18 Miller, Clarence H. (40) ............

J·

Miller, Frank T . (140) ................ 5-23-19
Miller, John G. (57) .................... 3- 4-19
M!ller. Jose~h S. (41 8) ................ 3-20-1 9
Miller. Lee - ( 596) ...................... 6-18-17
Miller, Raymond P. (22 ) .............. 2- 17-19
Milligan, George H. (2'14) ... ..... 8- 15-18
Millstein, William E. (455) ........ 4- 19-19
Minard. Bert I. ( 76) .................... 9-30-18
Mitchell. William M. ( 466 ) ........ 4- 12-18
Mohr. Marx P. ( 166) .................... 9-25-18
Molteni, Fredt>rick J. (462) ........ 2- 28-19
Money. Jr., Cornelius C. ( 12) .... 4-11-19
Money, Ha rvey M. (93) ............ 5-16-19
Monk. Thomas B. (3) ................ 3-24-19
Montgom ery, James W. (242) .... 6-21-19
Montgomer y. W ard W . (392) .... 8-21-1 8
Montoya, Vincent] . ( 431 ) .......... 7-19-19
Moock. Jacob L. (30) .................... 12- 10-1 8
Moody. Leo R. ( 403) ............... ... 6-1 6- 19
Moody. Leslie F. (61) ................ .. 8- 15-19
Moore, H a rvey C. (202 ) ............ 5-31-19
Moore, Wilbert G. (296) ............ 2-20-19
Moorehead, William J. (225) ...... 2- 18- 19
Morgan, Joe Denholm 138) ........ 3- 15-19
Morgan, Walter ]. (241) ............ 4-22-08
Morrison, Ja mes H. (68) ............ 12-26- 18
Morrison. W alter E. (327) ........ 4-19-19
Mortensen. Harry ( 282) .............. 3- I 7-19
Morton, Robert M . (5'l) .............. 12-11-1 8
Mosher, Phillip M. (675) ............ 12- 3-18
Mosher. W alter F . (425) ............ 10- 28- 16
Moss, Harry (462) ...................... 5-23-19
Mugg, Omer V . (43 1) ................ 6-1 4-19
Murphy, Elmer H . 13) .................. 2- 24-19
3-12-19
Murray, Guy P. (57) .....
Mussell, S tanley W. {348) .......... 3-27- 19
Mycroft. Edgar N. (462 ) ............ 3- 10- 19
Myers. Raymond A. (652 ) ........ 9- 9- 18
Myerson. Ben (529) ...................... 8- 15- 18
Myerson, David H. (335) ............ 6-26- 19
McCain, Willi il m E'.. (87) ........ 8-23-19
McCarthy . John N. (610) ............ 9-1 8- 18
McCabe, Henry 0 . (478) ..... ...... 5- 17-19
McCaugh an, Samuel J. (1 66 ) .... 4-30- 19
McCollum, Ross (323) ................ 2-27-19
McCord, Olin H . (274) ................ 10- 8- 18
~cCormick, Leroy ( 128) ............ 3-12- 19
cCumber. John E. (401) ............ 4-24- 19
McDaole), Lloyd M. (224) .......... 12- 12- 18
McGaughey , Harry R. {649) .... 7-23- 17
~cKallor, Henry T . (494) ........ 5-1 6-19
cKee, John R. (638) .................. 8-28-18
McKeehan, Arthur C. (87f ........ 4-26- 19
McKeehan, S. Atwood (70 ........ 7-20- 18
McKillip. Edward H. (290 ........ 3-2 7- 19
M
W alter L. (378) ............ 2-22-19
Mc~eod,
cWeill, John P. (348) ................ 11-20-13
M illiams, John R. (259) ........ 6-25-1 8
Ne
Neilson, Alexander C. (581) ........ 3-30- 18
Ntlt10n, Carl R. (280) ................. .12- 7- 18
tlaon, Gustav I. (393) ................ 6.-13-19
4

. . . . . . .. . . . . .

Nl\MB ANO LODGE NO.

DA TE OP RAISING

Nelson. Sigurd C. C. (354) .......... 6-20-18
N ewnan. Chilrles D. (479) .......... 12- 17-18
Nicholso n. Earl H. (663) ............ 6-14- 17
Nicholso n, William H. ( 426) .... 12- 4-18
Nickell. James A. (278) ................ 6-27-17
Nicolnisc n. Harold K. (136) ........ 7-25-18
Nielsen, Einar (247) .................... 6- 9-19
Nissen. Leonard E. (79 ) .............. 9-11-18
N orth. Elmer F. (552 ) .....-............ 8-28-17
Noyes, Joseph E. (214) ............... 5-15-19
Nuckles. Roscoe 0 . (348) ............ 5-24-19
Nuttall, Fred P. (384) .......... ........ 10-11-15
N ydeg!ler, Frederick R. (295) ....12-11-18
O ates, Joseph (222) ...................... 5-26-19
Ober, Worth E. (507) .................. 4-22-18
Ohmit, V crne ( 533) ...................... 5-22-19
Oldman, George B. ( 188) ............ 9-18-18
Olinger, Allen M. (461) ................ 3-21-19
Ollson, Frederick M. (363) ... - ..... 3-25-19
Olmsted, Clarkson N. (630) ........ 8- 8-19
Olsen, Sidney ( 454) ...................... 3-29-19
O 'Neill, Edward G . {561) ............ 5- 13-19
O 'Rear, H aven (528) .................. 1- 31-19
Orendorff, Vivian B. ( J 11 ) ........ 4- 4-19
Orsoline, George E. (382) ............ 6.- 2-19
Ott, Edward F. (35) ...................... 7-16-19
O verman, Claude D. (599) .......... 3- 10-11
Owen, William E. (173) .............. 1-27-12
Papst, D arrell W. (31 0) .............. 7-16-19
Parker, Alexande r H. (565) ........ 2- 8-18
Parker, Elgin R. (405) .................. 4- 15-19
Patrick, James S. (658) ................ 6- 6-18
Pattee, H arry Gordon ( 259) ...... 7-13- 18
Patterson , Dane L. (450) ............ 9-30-14
Patton, Hugh S. ( 103) .................. 9- 17-18
Paquette. Napoleon A. (229) ...... 5- 19-19
P ayne. Russell R. (375) .............. 9-20-18
Peacock, Alison P. (746) ............ 4-26- 19
Pelley, Ha rold A . (3) .................... 7- 3-1 8
Peltier, George N. ( 50 1) .............. 9-26-18
Pelulfo, Amedeo B. ( 14) ............! 2-12-18
Pendl, Anthon y E. (11 8) ............ 8- 8-08
Pentoney , Clifford P. (259) ........ 5-24-1 8
Penuelas, Louis J. (139) ................ 1-22-19
Percy, O scar J. (400). ................. 1-19-19
Perkins, Ross L. (375) ................ 4-28-19
Peters, Claude P. (290) ................ 8- 1-18
Pfaeffle, Robert E. (354 ) ............ 7- 11-18
Pfalsgraf , Theodor e R. (641 ) .... 5-15-19
Pllug, Hermnn H. (244) .............. 12-14-1 8
Pfrang. Herbert C. (468) ............ 3-15-19
Pier, Harold B. (99 ) ...................... 6- 6-19
Pilstl. Ross F. (538) ............... ....... 8-20- 19
Pirie, Charles A. (374) ................ 6-13-18
Piuma, Joseph A. (335) ................ 7- 10-19
Poem, V irgil F. (460) .................. 2- 7- 19
Porter. Lucius E. (397) ................ 12-31-18
Potter, Harold R. (327) ................ 5- 8-19
Poulsen, Oscar M. C. (215) ........ 9-30-18
Prestidge , Lance W. (460) ........ 5- 5-19
Preston, Harold M. ( 431) ............ 7-19-19

96
NAM!!. AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE
DAT!!. OP RAISING

NAM!!. AND LODGE NO.

DAT!!. OP RAISING

Rudkin, Jess R. ( 26} .................... 4-26-18
Prince, Ferd (690) ........................ 2-28-19
Rudolph , Elwood L. (685) . ...... 5- 9-18
5-16-17
·········
(38l·······
S.
Quate, Graham
Rummel sburg, Myron D. (279) .. 8-16-18
5-li-18
··
····-········
(529
.
W
Q uint, David
Rutledg e, Eric A . (268) .............. 4-I0- 19
2-25-19
............
('155)
.
H
Charles
ahing,
R
Saleeby , El ijah M. (399) ............ 8-16-10
Rae. James N. (53'1) .................... 9-20-18
, Joseph (462) ................ 3-31-19
Salomon
3-23-19
......
..............
(60)
Silvio
R amelli,
Lee R. (460) .............. ...... 3-24-19
Sample.
19
17............
(431)
B.
James
R annells,
Ford E . (2 15) .................. 9-26-18
Samuel,
~
9-1
.11...........
......
I)
(Si
Stanley
Rapp.
I B. ( 136) ............... 7-23-18
Lion<'
amuel.
S
7-20-1
..............
(259)
.
W
George
Rash,
E. (5'12) ........ 7-15-09
Charles
ld,
Satterfie
6-19-19
..
..............
(204)
John
en,
Rasmuss
................ 4- 2-19
(733)
Laurie
aunders.
S
8-li-18
....
..............
(392)
L.
Rauch, James
.............• 8- 6-18
(242)
Sherman
,
Sawtelle
7-19-18
....
..............
(322)
H.
Ray, Arthur
.......... 4-25-19
(756)
W.
Carroll
Sawyer,
19
7-1
i
....
3'13)
(
V.
k
Rayburn , Frederic
........ 6-22-18
(334)
L.
aymond
R
Sawyer.
9-18
9..
..............
)
(362
T.
avid
Rayner, D
............ 4-30-19
(346)
F.
William
ayles,
S
12-28-18
..............
(571)
.
C
Hugo
Rayspis.
Sch<'in. Sidney (10 ) ...................... 12- 4-18
Razor. Homer E. (8 19) ................ 4- 1- 16
S chlachte r. Will F. (366) ............ 6-li-19
I0-15-18
..........
175)
(
H.
Rebstock . George
4-24-19
Schliete r, Christop her J. (290) .... 11-30-18
..
..............
(389)
Redman , Carl P.
Schneider, Carl A. (767) ............. .11- 17
Reed, George E. (336) ................ 6-li-19
Schon, Gerald A. (415) ................ 8-14-17
Reed. Joseph C. (418) .................. 2-20-19
Schuyle r, Gerald B. (363) ............ 9-20-18
Reed, tester C. (341) .................... 5- 11- 18
Schwart z, Coleman (335) ............ 7-17-19
Reed, Roscoe L. (675) .................. 5-2'1-1 8
Schwich tenberg, Hugo 0. (307) 9-17-18
Relfe, Edward C. ( I ) .................... 4- 3-19
Scopazz o, John P. (652) .............. 6-25-18
Remy, William J. (272) ................ 6-10-18
Scott, Arthur T . (389) .............. .. 3-24-19
Renwick , Wilke R. (38) .............. 6- 5-19
Scott, James S. (8) ...................... 8- 19-18
R eschar, Ruben H. (10) ................ 9-16-18
Scott, Walter B. (327) ................ 2-28-19
Retterat h, George M. (240 ) ........ 1-22-19
S covel. Paul f. (166) .............. ...... 3-26-19
Reynolds, Sr., lrven G. (334) .... 3- 8- 19
Sebastia n, Charles F. (578) ........ 5-16-16
Rhineha rt, Joseph C. (650) ........ 4-19-16
Sellers, Gu stave (336) .................. 12-20-18
Richards George A. ( 594) ............ 8-30-1 8
Sellman , H arry A. (634) ............ 8-18-18
Richmon d, John C. (222) ............ 3-15-18
Senner, Frederic k M. (630) ........ 5-16-19
Rinkel, Louis E. (400) ......... - ..... 8-27- 18
Seppich , Arthur W. (455) .......... 3-25-19
Roberts, Charles W. (I0) ............ 10-23-15
Sevier, R aymond A. (271) ........ 12-17-18
R oberts, Edwin S. (445) ............ 1-20-19
Sewell, frank A. (489) ................ 9-28-18
Roberts, Harry C. ( 327 ) .............. 1-30-1 9
Seymou r, Wm. F. (596) .............. 1-23-17
Roberts, I van I. ( 466) .................. 8-10- 17
Shaver, Philip A . (!Oi) ................ 6-27-19
Roberts, Robert D. (470) ............ 4-19-19
Shaw, Carl R. (461) .................... 3-24-14
Robertso n, James (623) ................ 3- 8-1 7
Shayer, Claude H. (375) ............ 12-27-18
Robinso n, Thomas T. (509) ........ 9-28-18
Shell, Joe L. (35) .......................... 1-24-19
Robinso n. Verne E. (367) ............ 7-22-18
Shelley, Charles E. (556) ............ 4-24-19
Robion, Frank G . (392) ................ 8- 1-19
Shepher d, Victor E. (319) ............ 7-24-19
9-27-18
........
(347)
W.
Edward
,
Robison
19-18
Sheppard, Charles W. ( 30) ........ 3-25-19
10..
..............
)
(101
E.
John
Roddan,
Sherman , Earle B. ( 461) ............ 4-24- 19
Roller, Paul R. (568) .................... 11-21-16
4-18
9Sherman , Louis L. ( 188) ............ 4-28- 19
............
(311)
Jr.
..
M
Albert
Root,
2-20-19
Shertzer , Robert S. (349) ............ 11-20-18
..
..............
180)
(
J.
Ralph
Rorden,
S chwichte nberg, Hugo 0. (307) .. 9-17-18
Rose, Benjamin (462) .............. ...... 10-12-18
Shinn, Donald M. (188) ............ 8-30-19
Rosenbe rg, Charles L. (225) ........ 6-22-18
Shockey , D aniel C. (506) ............ 2-24-16
Rosenbl oom. Isadore (529) ........ 5-31-19
Sibbett, William R. (61) .............. 9-20-18
Rost, Charles A. (649) ................ 10-23-18
Sideboth am, Charles E. (24) ........ 6-28-19
Rothman , Michael ( 120) ............ 10- 3- I 8
S ievert, Fredrick W. (42) ............ 7-26-19
Rothsch ild, Sigmund V . (120) .... 5- 8- 19
Silberma n, Lou H. (37'1) ............ 4-24-19
Roulo, Alfred J. (736) .................. 10-24-17
Sill, Walter C . (385) .............. ...... 7-29-19
Rowe, Gustave C. (i6i} .............. 10-15-1 8
Silver, Maurice (242) .................... 1- 6-19
Royden , Geo. T. (226) ................ 2-27- 19
Silverste in, Philip M. (260) ........ 2-24-19
Rude. Arthur H. ( 458) ................ 7 -25-19
Simon. Lester (520} ...................... 6-26-17
Rudee, Joseph (495) ...................... 2-26-19
Sloan, James R. (367) .................. 6-23-19
Rudescu , Joseph ( 623} ................ 6-26-07
Sloper, Frank A. (409) ................ 3-18-19
Rudkin, George W. (611} .......... i-30-19
Slottelid, Anton O. (605) ...........• 8-29-18
Rudkin, Jr. Francis H. (379) ........ 5- 3-19
Smith, Jr.. Albert K. (546) ....·-··· 1-22-19
Rudkin, Frank A. (379) ......•____ i-23-19

NAMB AND LODGB NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Smith, Clifford A. (723) ................ 2-26-19
Smith, Edward F. (214) ............ 10- 2-17
Smith, Hiram E. (476) ................ 1-16-19
Smith, Lar.ce D. (446) ............._. 9-20-18
Smith. Lionel R. (30) .................... 7-22-19
Smith. Millard F. (319) ................ 1-28- 19
Smith, Norman C. (609) ............ 11- 9-18
Snade.r, Edward J. (529! ············ 4-24-19
Snodgra ss, Fred C. (341 ·····--···· 9-25-18
Snook, Preston E. (403 ............ 9-21-18
Snyder, By ron L. (633) ................ 4-17-18
Snyder, Prank T. (355 ) ................ 1-29-19
Sommer, Peter S. (3'14) ............ 8-13-18
Spa~na, Mario J. (30) ................ 12- 6-18
Spam, George E. (355) ................ 7-27-18
Spainho wer, Oscar V. (241 } ........ 7-19-18
Spangle r, Joseph A. (188) ............ 5-24-19
Sparrow e. Elmer S. (360 ) ............ 4-28-19
Spaugh. Ray L. (590) ................ 5- 7- 19
Spearin, Sidney J. (61 ) ................ 5-26-19
Specht, Sr., Karl G. (561) ........ 7-12-18
Spencer, Guy F. ( 122) ................ 2-15-19
Spencer, W olter L. (445) ............ 1- 7-19
Spillman , Albert E. (613) ............ 8- 6- 18
Spivey, Lloyd C. ( 208) ................ 6-10-19
Spooner , Franklin V. (584) ........ 10- 6-15
Sprout, Jrsse H. (447l ................ 2- 28-19
Squires, Hobert J. (40 ................ 11 - 13-18
Stanfield , Jo hn H . (292 ................ 9-26-18
Stanley, Carl J. (675) .............. .... 4- 2-18
Steele, John E. (57) ...................... 5- 5-03
Steffan, Jacoh P. (229) ................ 3-17-19
Steller, Carl E. (211) .................... 5-24-19
Stern. Ralph (136) ........................ 7- 2-18
Stevens, Glen 0. (26) ....: ............. 8- 6-1 8
Stevenso n, Chester W. (320) .... 6-17-18
Stewart, Avery (693) .................... 12-25-18
Stewart. George W. (636) ........ 5-23-19
Stewart. Hugh (325) ............. ____ 4- 4-19
Stewart, James F. (293) ................ 2- 5-19
Stewart, Leslie A. (78) ................ 7- 24-19
Stiff, Robert J. (352} .............. ...... 12-I0-18
Stoeckle, Clem W. (528) ............ 7-13-18
Stoll, Albert L. (41} .................... 9-21-18
Story, C arlton S. (281 ) ................ 3- 8-19
Story, Elwin G. (295) .......- ....... 1- 8-19
Straub, Albert L. F. (336) ............ 8- 5-16
Strauss, John L. (652) .................. 3-27-19
Street, George (188) .................... 11-30- 18
Stricklin, Oscar L. (380) ............ 3- 17-19
Strong, Fred (315) ........................ 2-1 8- 19
Strong, Walter M . (680) ............ 1- 18-17
Sullivan , Vernon R. (497) .......... 6-28-19
Sutherla nd, Henry W. (441) ...... 4-28-19
Swain, Wallace F. R. (373) ........ 5-28-19
~Wanson, Arthur W. (403) ........ 6- 30-19
Swanson, James \V. (399) ............ 3-25-19
Swenson, Clarence G. (87) ........ 9-13-18
T.wett, William H . (290) ............ 6- 2-19
T.annlwid, George O. N. (179) .... 2- 8-19
ate, Henry L. (300) .................... 3-19-18

NAMB AND LODGE NO.

97
DAT!!. OP RAISING

Taylor. Murdoc h M. (450) ........ 8-17-18
Taylor, William H. (260) ............ 8-12-18
Thomas, Sr., Lionel C. (426) ...... IO- 2-18
Thomps on, William A. (35) ........ 12-17-18
Thurston, Emor y W . (382) ........ 8-10-18
Thursto n. Willard H. (392) ........ 3-31-19
Tindall, Robert C. (307) ............ 8-27-18
Tipp, Joseph H. (462) ................ 12-23-18
Tipton, Gerald 0. (616) .............. 9- 6-18
Toft, George W. ( 169) .............. .. 11- 9-18
Tonkin. Jose ph M. (216) .............. 10- 7-18
Tourtillott, Raymon d R. ('116) .... 6-30-19
Trask, Tallman H. ( 272) ............. 2-22-19
Traughb er, Leslie K. (423) ....... .12-30-18
Treichel, Chester H. (480) ........ 8-12-18
Triebel. Arthur H . (388 ) ...........• 5- 8-19
Truitt, Carl F. (604) .................... 3- 2-08
Trulove , Thomas E. (421) ........ 7-17-19
Tuck, Bernard (327) .................... 3-22- 19
Turk, Henry W. (396) ................ 12-14-18
Turner, Edward (506) ................ 4-17-19
Ulman, Edmund B. (46 1) ............ 2-20-19
Ullrich, William E. (535) ............ 5-30-19
Umhalt, Julius A. (363) ................ 9-26-18
VanEng er. Charles J. (506) ........ 11-26-12
Vann, William L. (188) .............. 10-30- 18
Vernon, Ray E. (58) ....................12- 7-18
Vickery , Curtis S. (462) .............. 3-28-19
Volquar dsen, Leland J. (462) ...... 4-18-18
VonGro fe, Ferdinan d R. (415) .... 1-16-18
Waite, Lyman C . (343) ................ 8-12-11
Wakefie ld, Harold G. (20) .......... 9-12-18
Walker, George E. ( 483) ............ 2-19-19
Wallace . Frederic k J. (3) ............ 8-26- 18
Wallace, Henry 0. (198) ............ 4-30-19
Walling , Leighton C. (333) ........ 2-21-19
Walter, Laurenc e (319) ................ 6- 2-19
Walton, Charles L. (217) ............ 5-22-19
Wanka, Carl T . (805) ................ 2-28-18
Ward, Walter C. (290) ................ 1-23-19
Warner , Eugene N. (225) ............ 9-17-18
Warren , H arry B. (296} .............. 6-12-19
Wamn , Ro land T. (! 10) ............ 5-25-19
Warth, Albert E. (20i} ...........- ... 1- 3-19
Wassun g, Howard M. (466) ...... 12- 6-15
Wast<', \.Villiam E. (2681····--····--ll- 1- 18
Watk ins. Fred A. (135 ............ 5- 16-19
Watson , Clifton H. (620 ............ 12-21-18
\Vayne, Leonard A. (99 ............ 4-29-19
Weinbe rg, Shirley R. (42) .......... 9-23-18
Weir, Roy A. (87) ........................ 4-26- 19
Welch, William B. (303) ............ 1-13. 19
West. Charles H. ( 210) ............ 2-25-19
Westerg aard, Nels \ V. (389) ...... 5-12- 15
Wheelin g, W illiam T. (650) ...... 2-22-19
White, Charles W. (320) ............ 5- 1-18
White. Claxton 0. (429) ............ 5-20-19
White, Raymon d H. (214) ........ 6-24-19
White, Walter B. (225) .............. 4-22-19
White, Wilbur L. (524) .............. 1-18-19
Whitem an. Roswell (461) .......... 1~16-19

98
NAME AND LODGE NO.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OP RAISING

Wilkerson, William B. (458) .... 5-16-19
Will, Theodore F. (215) ............ 2-20-19
Willard, Robert H. (470) ............ 10- 5-18
Willens, Nathan (529) ................ 6-30-19
Williams, Carl C. (389) .............. 3- 4-19
Williams, Charles D. (484) ........ 7-31-18
Williams, Stanley W. (450) ...... 7-15-19
Wilson, Harry K. (207) .............. 5-28-19
Wilson. Ray H. (657) ............... 5- 6-14
Wilson, Sidney G. (215) ............ 11-30-18
Winchell, Pitt K. (480) .............. 4-12-19
Wind. Soren A. (461) ................ 7-24-19
Wishart. George A. (680) ........ 9-18-18
Wolf, Clayton S. (273) ................ 5- 1-18
Wolf, David L. (470) .................. 4-22-19
Wollitz, Alfred E. (61) ................ 3-17-19
Wolter, George C. (401) ............ 7-24- 19
Wood, James L. (582) ................ 3-20-16

NAME AND LODGf. NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DA TE OP RAISING

Wood, Laurin L. (614) ................ 6-13-18
Woodfield, Jr., William H. (1) .. 9-26-18
Woodnutt, Lloyd H. (325) ........ 4-28-19
Woodworth, Harold E. (466) .... 4-22-19
Woolfrey, John B. ( 169) ............ 1-28-14
Worth, Fred F. (696) .................. 12-12-18
Wright, Loyd E. (566) ................ 5-23-18
Wright, Samuel J. (363) .............. 7-19-19
Wrinkle, David F. (166) ............ 2-15-19
Wurm, Royal H. (437) ................ 4-16-19
Wyman, Charles L. (368) .......... 6-17-18
Young, John T. (610) .................. 2-15-19
Young, Lowell A. (493) ............ 12-26-18
Zalk, Louis S. (120) .................... 11- 6-18
Zecher, Albert G. (354) ................ 3-14-1 8
Zimmerman, A!bert C. (226) ........ 11-22-18
Zimmerman, Reed ( 528) .............. 12-18-18

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
According to the California Masonic Code, it is incumbent upon the
Grand Lecturer to render a full and detailed account of his services and
activities during the year and set forth therein a report of the condition
of the Lodges throughout the jurisdiction at each Annual Communica~
tion. This report, in addition, however, will also include certain activities
of the Ritual Committee and the lnspectoral Corps, which fall under the
direction of the Grand Lecturer.
RITUAL

Conformity, uniformity, and excellence in the ritualistic work through~
out the jurisdiction, have been the goals of this Grand Lodge since its
inception. The Ritual provides the candidate with his first exposure to
the principles and tenents of Freemasonry and, while the candidate may
not remember much regarding the sequence of the ·c eremonies of the
degrees, he will remember the manner in which the Ritual is rendered
by the officers and the dignity in which it is performed. Our present
system of instruction in the Ritual through the Grand Lecturer and Ritual
Committee to the lnspectoral Corps, and then in turn taught to the
officers of our constituent Lodges by the Inspectors, has been followed
for many years and the results of our present system are most gratifying.
In order to maintain and improve our level of proficiency at the con~
stituent Lodge level, the following series of activities were performed.
1. The Ritual Committee met at Mill Valley for the review of our
Ritual under the direction of the Grand Lecturer on November 29-30,

99

~968. At thi~ annual meeting, also, many plans were made toward the
1mplementahon of the Grand Master's proposed program of activities.
2. The annual Spring Conferences for Inspectors were conducted
by the r~spectiv~ Assistant Grand Lecturers, particularly for the review
of the R~t~a_I, with the members of the Ritual Committee present:
D1v1s1on One at Napa, April 11~13, 1969, conducted by Bertram
C. vonKonsky, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Divis~on Two at Bijou, June 20-22, 1969, conducted by Frank P .
Lemen, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division Three at Los Gatos, April 25-27, 1969, conducted by
Ulysses G. Patropulos, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division Four at Twain Harte, June 5~8, 1969, conducted by Wallace H. Fiske, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division Five at San Diego, May 16-18, 1969, conducted by
Burton Meyer, Jr., Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division Six at El Cajon, March 28~30, 1969, conducted by William H . Price, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden, .a nd Junior Grand Warden also attended the Conferences.
3, Eac~ Assistant Grand Lecturer programmed a series of Schools
of Instruction for the Inspectors in his Division.
4. As prescribed in the California Masonic Code, the Grand Lecturer
conducted the S~hool of Instruction for Inspectors on Saturday, October
11, 1969, at which all of the esoteric portions of our Ritual were per~
formed by the Inspectors of the jurisdiction.
. 5: Th~ Inspectors are required to conduct regular Schools of Ins truction 1~ their respectiv~ Distri~ts, with a minimum requirement of covering
the Ritual at le~s~ tw1~e durmg the year, and instructing the officers on
matters of admm1stration and Masonic law. Where deemed warranted
the Inspectors have conducted Schools of Instruction fo r individuai
Lodges in numerous locations.
6. To supplement the foregoing series of instruction in the Ritual
the Masters and Officers' Coaches conducted Schools of Instruction and
rehearsals for the officers in many of our Lodges.
The, caliber of work exhibited by the Inspectors at the Grand
Lecturers Scho_ol of Instruction just completed, and at the several Spring
Conferences, gives ample indication that we are continuing our steady
prog~ess toward uniformity and conformity in the work.
Smce..1963, on a rotation basis, one of the Inspectors from the State
of ~awan has at_tend_ed the Division 3 Inspectors' Conference each year.
This year, by direct10n of the Grand Master, all three of our Hawaii
~nspect~rs attended the Conference and this will materially aid them
m the discharge of their respons ibilities in their respective Districts.
A School of Instruction for the Hawaii Inspectors and Officers
Coaches was conducted by the Grand Lecturer on May 24th in Hano~

JOO

PROCEED INGS OF THE

lulu . Also, a School for Candid ate Coache s was conduc ted coverin g the
candida te lectures of the three degrees . At both Schools our brethren in
Alohala nd demons trated their avid interest in Freema sonry. their steady
advance toward perfecti on in our Ritual. and their renown ed spirit of
hospita lity as bestowe d on the Grand Lecture r and the Assista nt Grand
Lecture rs who have worked with them in years gone by.
CANDID ATE COACHI NG

In the Grand Lecture r's Report at our last Commu nication concern
was express ed in regard to our Candid ate Coachin g program . This
concern was directed , not at the Candid ate's lecture portion, but specifically at the educatio n and indoctri nation element s of the program .
This concern was prompte d by the results of an analysi s of the Inspectors' annual reports, the commen ts of many of our Inspecto rs, and the
relative ly small number of our membership who have been certified by
the Inspect ors as qualifyi ng as Candid ate Coache s with a thoroug h
knowle dge of the content s and informa tion contain ed within the pages
of the Handbo ok for Candid ates Coache s.
Some Lodges have develop ed very effective program s. based on the
use of the Handbo ok for Candid ates Coache s and the impartin g of
knowle dge and informa tion to the Candid ate during the periods between
his degrees . Also, there are Inspect ors who have develop ed program s
designe d to accomp lish the aims of the program through an organiz ed
District effort.
The Ritual Commi ttee has directed its attentio n to this serious
problem and is in the process of studyin g the possible means to bring
about a more universal adheren ce to the spirit of the adopted program .
Howeve r, any move toward improve ment must be execute d at the Lodge
level, through the co-oper ative efforts of the Inspect or a nd the Master,
irrespec tive of any propose d format develop ed by the Ritual Commit tee.
A great step forward would be for each Master to see to it that
each newly raised Mason is informe d, educate d, and trained to qua lify
as a Certified Candid ate Coach. We submit that this should be a primary
goal of every Master a nd Warden .
LoDGE ACTIVIT IES

Most of our Lodges are reported as having particip ated in the
primary Grand Lodge program s, such as Public Schools Week, Constitution Observa nce, and achieved greater results in our Homes Endow ment program . These achieve ments indicate some semblan ce of Lodge
activity , and in many instanc es meritorious results have been noted, and
these will be reported on in further detail by the Grand Lodge Committees involve d.
Howeve r, it is in the area of Lodge activity designe d for the develop -

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

101

ment of fratern alism, and creating Lodge activities and program s to
.
arouse the interest of the membership, that there is cause for concern
and
,
group
l
fraterna
warm
a
of
part
a
g
becomin
of
Withou t a feeling
without a program of activities to attract his attentio n, the individu al
member quickly loses the habit of attendin g Lodge meetings. his interest
lags. and he loses contact with his Lodge.
The Inspect ors' annual reports indicate a large number of Lodges do
not engage in any well-ro unded program of activities. Usually the same
Lodges suffer from two general handica ps; first, they have difficulty in
recruiti ng officer materia l ; and. secondly. the you nger member s are not
interest ed in becoming active or acceptin g officer appoint ment.
Many Inspect ors have commen ted that too many of our member s
are not willing to commi t themselves to the years o f service required to
serve through the chairs of the Lodge. This thought is not new. Several
of our Grand Masters through the years, even back in the 19th century.
express ed their concern over this matter. In 1963 the Special C ommission
on Masonic Practice s suggest ed, as Grand Masters had done in the
past, that the lower s tations be filled on a one-yea r appoint ment basis
and that the progres sive line start at not lower than the Junior Deacon 's
station. This is a matter that must be resolved at the Lodge level and it
is highly recomm ended for conside ration, especia lly in those Lodges
that have difficulty in enlistin g the members, particul arly the younge r
member s, into the corps of officers.
INSPECT ORAL CORPS

The duties of the,lnsp ector are set forth in Section 161 of the California Masoni c Code. How ever, over the years addition al duties have
been added to the Inspect or's responsibilities and. as the Gra nd Lodge
represe ntative in the District to which he is assigne d, his activities cover
a broad spectru m of authori ty. This hardy band o f dedicat ed Masons
has done yeoman work through out our jurisdiction year after year and
this year has been no exceptio n. W ith each passing year, in addition
to already prescrib ed duties, the Inspect or is charged with the responsib ilities of arrange ments for the increasi ng number of Grand
Lodge ceremonies, receptio ns for the Grand Master, and other special
meeting s in which Grand Lodge is involved. Their's is an indispen sible
service to Masonr y and no praise is too great for their unselfis h contributio ns of time and talent to our great Fratern ity and its work.
The Ritual Commi ttee joins me in this gratefu l word of thanks, and
our commen dation and praise for their outstan ding service.
There ha ve been twenty- three new lnspecto ral appoint ments during
the year. The new Inspect ors a re called upon to pick up the reins from
their compet ent predecessors and are distingu ishing themselves by that
same quality of service exemplified by the Inspect oral Corps through
the years. During the year, we were saddene d by the loss of three

102

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

members of the Inspector al Corps: Fred Elliott, District 594. in March
and, just two weeks ago. Frank Raddatz, District 524, and Irvin Shulkin,
District 568. Their work and their dedication to Masonry was of the
highest.

designated by the Master, who regularly or occasionally performs the
ceremony in each Lodge in the District.
The Inspector was also charged with the responsibility of keeping a
continuing record of those brothers who are qualified and capable of
performing the Service in each Lodge.
During the year several complaints were received that Masters.
Officers, and the Brethren were not fulfilling their Masonic duties in
regard to funerals. First, Masters were not contacting and visiting the
widow or family of the departed Brother and. secondly, that the Lodge
members were negligent in their duty to attend the final rites for the
Brother. These points require careful consideration on the part of
Masters and Officers who have been negligent in the past.

A SSISTANT GRAND LECTURERS

As former Inspectors, the Assistant Grand Lecturers are well
schooled in those qualities of service and leadership required to supervise the activities, duties and responsibilities of the Inspectors under
their command. They have distinguished themselves by their conscientious attention to their assignments. their helpfulness to the Inspectors in their respective Divisions and their outstanding devotion to
Freemasonry.
I am particularly grateful for their thoughful deliberations, their
willingness to accept assignments and, above all, for their treasured
friendship. Their qualities of leadership constitute one of the outstanding
assets of our Grand Lodge.
SPECIAL COMMITTEE

In December Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, Grand M aster,
complying to the action of the Grand Lodge on P ast Grand Master
Eugene S. H opp's recommendation that a Special Committee be appointed to study how best to implement the communication of th!:!
fundamentals of Freemasonry to every Master Mason. appointed such
a Committee and requested the Grand Lecturer to serve as a member and
Chairman of the Committee.
The study has been an enriching experience with the other members of the Committee a nd will be reported on separately during this
Annual Communication.
FUNERAL SERVICE

In last year's report the Grand Lecturer pointed out the mounting
wave of criticism that ha d developed in recent years beca use of the
manner our Masonic Funeral Service was being rendered in various
parts of our jurisdiction. Subsequently, in January of this year, a directive was addressed to the Inspectors reiterating the policy submitted to
this Grand Lodge by the then Grand Lecturer, Chester H. Warlow.
and adopted at that time, requiring Masters-elect, as a part of their
qualifying examinations, to be proficient in the Masonic Funeral Service.
This policy, incidentally, was again referred to in the 1950 Proceedings
of the Annual Communication.
The directive also stipulated that the Inspector would ascertain that
at least two or more qualified brothers were not only qualified but available to perform the Funeral Service in a proficient manner and that he
would ascertain the proficiency of the Master, or any other brother

103

MASONIC ORIENTATION PROGRAMS

The Grand Lecturer represented the Ritual Committee at the six
Division meetings called by the Grand M aster to acquaint the Officers
of the Lodges with the purposes and programs of the various Grand
Lodge Committtees. Subject matter stressed by the Ritual Committee
included Ritual, the role of the Inspector, Officers' responsibilities, concerns about the Funeral Service, Candidate Coaching and education,
Lodge administration, Officers' Association , Grand Lodge relationships,
promotion of fraternalism, and dissemination of informa tion to the membership.
The total number of officers in attendance at the Division meetings
was approximately 3,300.
INS PECTOR'S MANUAL

This long-planned tool for the Inspector is now in the final stages
of cross-indexing the Table of Contents and it is expected that it
will be completed for distribution soon after the first of the year.
BUDGET

In accordance with procedures followed during previous years,
formal requests for budget allocations have been submitted to the
Finance Committee for consideration.
CONCLUSION

In closing , I wish to ex press my personal thanks to the Grand
Master for the numerous courtesies extended and the helpful counsel
given; to the Grand Secreta ry and his staff for their efficient assistance
and support; and to you, my Brethren, for the opportunity you have
given me to be of service to you and to our beloved Fraternity.
Respectfully submitted
HAROLD N. RICHARDS, Grand Lecturer
(Budget allocation)
Finance.
Referred to Committee on

104

105

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES

Covina to meet on the ground with our architects at a time when detailed
drawings were nearing completion.
At the request of the Board. Trustee Dayton made an historical
analysis of the quota system as to Decoto guests. Under rules adopted
by the Board in 1941 , Lodges of under 300 members were permitted two
residents without contribution by the lodge; between 500 and 600, one
for each 150 members, with larger Lodges in a decreasing ratio. It now
appears that the age of the Lodge being reflected in the age of its members is more of a determining factor in admissions than size. Furthe r.
many of our older Lodges are both smaller in the number of members
and in their income than younger and perhaps larger Lodges. Seeking
justice for our applicants and for the Lodges from which they may come,
the Board. after conscientious and soul-searching examination of the
conditions created by the quota system, has decided to rescind it eff ective October 1, 1969. This means that those Lodges heretofore contributing for residents in excess of the quota will no longer need to contribute. and that future applications will not be s ubject to quota. We are
certain that this meets with your approval.
The relaxation. or re-definition of entrance requirements by the
State Fire Mars hal and the establishment of a so-called non-ambulatory
section. has enabled the Board to approve the admission of many into
the Decato Home who would have previously not been eligible. There
are, however, distinct limitations to these expanded rules. Bedfast persons and persons requiring assistance in dressing and caring for personal needs still cannot be admitted. Persons mentally confused and
incapable of leaving the buildings cannot be admitted. \Ve caution
Masters and investigating committees by Lodges to carefully weigh the
possibility of misunderstanding on the part of applicants and their
families if applications facing a lmost certain non-approval are submitted. For the sake of the applying member and his family, we ask you
not to ask the Board to bear the brunt of a case which you can clearly
forsee as ineligible under State Welfare Department rules. Preliminary
investigation should always be made by the Lodge prior to formal application. The Inspector of your Masonic District can be most helpful in
advising you in these matters.
In consequence of the Board's decision in I 967, after thorough investigation of possible alternatives, to maintain the Home for Children In
its present site and the master plan of re-development reported to you
at the 1968 Communication, your Board has proceeded to develop final
plans for, and to proceed with construction. The site plan, floor plan
and elevation of a typical cottage were reported to the Craft through
the California Freemason in its Summer issue.
On June 3rd in the offices of our architects, Jones and Emmons, bids
were opened and the low bid of $757,050.00 was that of Leonard Fullmer, Jr., a member of Arcadia Lodge No. 547. On June 4th, the Board

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California met,
following the election of the officers of the Grand Lodge, at 11 :30 on
the morning of October 19. 1968. for the purpose of organizing the
Board.
The Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, having been elected Grand
Master of Masons in California and H awaii, met with the Board and
announced his appointments to the Board for the three-year terms. commencing in 1968. Succeeding Phil N. Myers, P.G.M .. who had completed nine years of faithful service, the Grand Master appointed Worshipful William A. Revitt of Union Lodge No. 58 in Sacramento, thus
recognizing that important area and its close ties to the Masonic Homes.
Trustee Donald G. Campbell was reappointed for a second term of
three years. Right Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee. Deputy Grand
Master. Golden West Lodge No. 455. Right Worshipful Herbert A.
Huebner, Senior Grand Warden, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, and Right
Worshipful Lester S. McElwain, Junior Grand Warden, Yerba Buena
Lodge No. 403. are members of the Board ex-officio.
Trustee Revitt having assumed his place, the Board re-elected as
President. Alfred F . Breslauer, P.G.M .. Starr King Lodge No. 344, and
as Vice President, Donald G. Campbell, P .G.L., Granada Lodge No.
608. By virtue of their offices as Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary,
P aul A. Pflueger and Edward H. Siems. P.G .M., are Treasurer and
Secretary of the Board.
Appointive Trustees and their terms are:
Expiring October 1969 Alfred F. Breslauer Edward J. Blickfeldt
1970 Laurence E. Dayton Myron E . Smith
Donald G. Campbell
1971 William A. Revitt
Meetings of the Board have been held monthly, either in Los Angeles or San Francisco, generally at or near the airports. This has
reduced the travel time of the Trustees and permitted full day meetings
without the necessity of stay-over. As has been the custom for many
years, one of the meetings was set to coincide with the Grand M;:ister's
visit to, and his reception by, our guests at Deco to on January 25th.
Members of the Board were escorted to the auditorium at Decoto. each
by one of our lovely lady guests at the Home. On March 15th the Board
met at the Home for Children at Covina. These meetings not only
offered an opportunity for each Trustee to inspect the work of the
particular Home, but to meet with and become "tuned in" on the
thoughts and feelings of our young and older Masonic guests. The meeting held at Covina also permitted those Trustees not directly involved
in the architectural planning for the redevelopment of the Home at

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

106

107

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

awarded the construction contract to Brother Fullmer.
The Grand Master had accepted the invitation of the Board to break
ground in the re-development and had set the date of ~he ceremony for
June 14th. Through the leadership of General Chairman, Inspector
William A. Fishback, and the support of the Inspectors, Masters and
Officers of the lodges of Divisions Five and Six, more than 2500 Masons
and their families gathered to be a part of the endeavor. After a musical
program orchestrated by Masonic musician~ 1.ed by Jerry Rosen, _Past
Master of Silver Trowel Lodge, and preliminary remarks, President
Alfred F. Breslauer invited the Grand Master to turn the first spade.
Grand Master Crigler responded by comparing the present joy-filled
occasion with the day, more than fifty years previous, when the Home
was constructed at Covina.
With the signing of the contract, work began, and at the time of t?is
report, is progressing at such a rate that we look forward to completion
ahead of schedule. After completion, the well-loved but outmoded d~r­
mitories will be vacated and in the summer of 1970 will be razed. While
memories will linger in the minds of our Covina alumni and the many
members who have visited the Home over the years, we are firmly convinced of your approval of this action which will keep the Home at
Covina in the forefront of Homes throughout the country and, .inde~d,
the world. You can report to your lodge the pride and gratification
which each member should feel in the work which is carried on by them
in this expression of our great principles of Brotherly Love and Relief.
As an expression of this brotherly regard for our children, the Cov~na
Re-development Fund was established early in 1969 by several gifts
made for this purpose. Because the whole re-development program will
involve several years, gifts and bequests may well be made by tho~e who
wish to name a specific project. The generosity of our brethren is constantly evidenced by such gifts. Your help in spreading word of the
existence of Covina Re-d evelopment Fund will enable the work to continue for the benefit of our young people and children who are our
Masonic link with the future.
The progress made in the last two years in ~ring.ing the Home at
Covina up to modern standards of child care has msp1red the Board to
carefully study the situation at the Home at Decato. As chang~s have
taken place in concepts of child care, so have changes occurred m ~on­
cepts of housing, feeding, recreation and medical care of our semors.
To go forward with a study concerning Deco~o,. President Breslauer
appointed a Special Committee on Decoto Adm1ss10ns and Redevelopment. This committee will conduct a long-range survey to make recommendations to the Board. We hope to report progress at the 1970 Communication.
While labor costs continue to rise. your Board is happy to report
that because of our members continuing generosity, both in the Endow-

ment Fund and in gifts and bequests and because of increasing returns
on the investment of Endowment and Reserve Funds, we have, for the
first time in many years, operated within our income. A reduction in
per capita made last year of 35¢ per member from $1.50 to $1.15 will be
reflected in the 1969-70 revenue but we feel confident of the future and
anticipate that we can this year reduce the request by another 15¢. We.
therefore, ask that a contribution be made through the Lodges of $1.00
per member for the operation of the Homes.
With the close of this Communication, the Board loses the services
of two of its most faithful servants. Past Grand Master Alfred F.
Breslauer served as a member and as counsel until his election as President of the Board in 1967. His intimate understanding of our legal
affairs. his devotion to the principles of brotherly love and relief. his insistence on the basic truths of Masonry in all our doings, has been an
inspiration to all of the Board. We hope and feel assured that we can
count on his wisdom and zeal should problems confront us which
require his advice and counsel. Starr King Lodge No. 344 can take pride
in the contribution made by this distinguished son in his many capacities
of Inspector, Committee member and Chairman, Grand Master of
Masons in California and Hawaii, and, perhaps, with the greatest satisfaction in his heart, as a worker for our Homes at Decoto and Covina.
Edward J. Blickfeldt, a Past Master of Alexander Hamilton Lodge
No. 535, came to the Board in 1960 after service as a member of and
Chairman of the Committee on Lodge Financing and as a member of
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. His intimate knowledge
of real estate value;; and of real property tax laws proved of inestimable
worth in handling the many problems involved in real estate donated
to the Homes. His evident love of the Fraternity and his fellowman
have led to service beyond the call of duty.
To our retiring members go the thanks of the Board and the wish
that through their future service to Masonry they may gain continued
satisfaction.
To our Grand Master, M ost Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, go our
thanks for his continuing interest. He, in spite of a crowded schedule,
demonstra ted his concern by attending a majority of our meetings. The
arrangements for the ground-breaking at Covina and the interest shown
in that event by the Masters and members of the lodges were largely
the result of his close personal supervision and inspiration.
The Secretary of the Board, P.G.M. Edward H. Siems, and his office
handle a multiplicity of duties on our behalf with devotion. Our fi eld
representatives, Maria Workman in the North, and Martha Quick in
the South, well present the image of Masonic concern in all of their
contacts. Our able Superintendents, Brothers Gail H. David and James
C. Blaine, and their staffs, administer your Homes with a spirit of tender,
loving ca.re.

108

109

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Our greatest thanks must be reserved for you Brethren representing
the 240,000 Masons in California and Hawaii. Without your help. without the Endowment Fund, without the expanded heart of Masonry, your
Homes could not exist. We ask you to continue in this great work,
taking to your lodges and members the good news of the work of our
Homes.
Respectfully submitted,
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER, President
HERBERT A . HUEBNER
DoNALD G. CAMPBELL, Vice-President

Home. A reception was held for the Grand Master that evening in the
auditorium. He very graciously spoke to the residents of his experiences
as Grand Master and his trip to India.
During the year we helped to celebrate two important birthdays of
our residents. Mrs. Annie Matthews celebrated her I 04th anniversary
on July 18, 1968 and Mrs. Teresa Locke celebrated her 103rd anniversary on November 30, 1968. Our present Deputy Grand Master, Right
Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee, was present to help them celebrate.
We received many wonderful gifts during the year for which we are
sincerely grateful. These consisted of the generous donations of cash
by Lodges to our Christmas Fund, furniture, clothing, T.V. sets, radios,
books, food and many other items by individuals and other groups.
Brother Warren Mooney of Standard Lodge continues to favor us with
a $100.00 merchandise order each month for salad dressing, etc.
We were favored during the year with many wonderful programs
to entertain our residents. To the many Masonic Lodges, Eastern Stars,
DeMolays, Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls, San Leandro Musicians'
Union and other groups we wish to express, on behalf of our residents,
our grateful thanks for these programs.
Our Masonic Home register was signed by 3.026 visitors, representing 398 Lodges in California and Hawaii, 23 other states and 5 foreign
countries.
The roof of the auditorium was replaced. It was necessary to replace
some of the worn out equipment in the kitchen and this included two
steam cookers, one range with oven, and the addition of two deep fryers.
The preventive maintenance continues to be a never ending one, as
well as being a co~tly one, due to the age of pipes and other equipment.
To all our employees, I wish to express my personal appreciation for
their cooperation in caring for our residents in the Home and Hospital.
Thank you for a job well done.
To all the residents. on behalf of the staff, I express my thanks to
you for your cooperation and assistance in helping to make this a better
home for you.
My personal thanks to each Trustee for his confidence and helpful
guidance. Each one has a s incere personal interest in the Home and
our residents. For this, each is to be commended for his work on the
Board.
We wish to thank the Grand Secretary's office for the very fine
cooperation and assistance given during the past fiscal year, and particularly the Accounting Department.
It is a great pleasure to continue to serve the Board of Trustees and
the Masonic Fraternity as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at
Union City.
Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

LAURENCE E. DAYTON
MYRON E. SMITH
CHESTER R. MACPHEE

LESTER S. McELWAIN
BucKFELDT
EDWARD
WILLIAM A. REVITT

J.

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation-per capita
tax.)

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT
MASONIC HOME AT UNION CITY
It is deemed a sincere pleasure to submit to the Board of Trustees
and the Fraternity, my fourteenth annual report.
The population on July 1, 1968 was 315 residents, consisting of 130
men, 183 women, including 17 married couples. with an average age of
83.09 years
On June 30, 1969, there were 327 residents. including 17 married
couples. There were 138 men and 189 women, and the average age was
83.56 years.
Men
Age Groups
Women
3
60 to 69 years ------··----------·--·--··-· 8
45
70 to 79 years ·-·--·-----··--··--·-------- 29
111
80 to 89 years ·····---·----------········· 84
28
90 to 99 years -------·-------------··----· 17
1
103 years ······--······----····----··-··---·--1
! 04 years ·······--·····-··-------·-··-----------138
189
considered
96
with
1969.
30,
The hospital had 118 patients on June
permanent, plus 35 confined to the fifth floor of Adams H all.
The staff continues to provide our residents with the utmost in medical. dental and podiatry care.
The Administration, including the Hospital Supervisory staff, has
remained intact.
Our Grand Master, Brother Robert Crigler, some of the Grand
Lodge Officers and Trustees visited several times during the past year.
The Trustees held their annual meeting at the Home on January 25,
1969, with all having a chance to visit and review the operation of the

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT-COVINA HOME
It is with pleasure that I submit my annual report for the year 196869. At year's end our population consisted of fifty-three children, thirtythree boys and twenty girls. Elementary school children numbered
twenty-five, Junior High numbered twenty, and High School children
numbered thirteen.
The year 1969 saw five groups of children reunited with their families or next of kin, indicating that the services for the Home were no
longer needed. These five groups consisted of the Moore boys, Sojourners of Benton, Illinois, the Knauer children, Ashlar No. 306, Colton,
the Crane children from Highland Park No. 382. Los Angeles, the
Mayo boys from Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76. Angels Camp. a~d the
Rogers children from Big Bear Lodge No. 617. Although we miss all
these children it is thrilling to know that the family situations have been
so resolved to the degree that the re-establishing of the family can be
accomplished. Meanwhile, all the children will have been able to remember their years a t Masonic as happy and meaning ful ones.
All four graduating seniors of June, 1969, will be attending college
on Fra ternity scholarships. Craig Gockley will be attending the ~an
Francisco Academy of Art. while Paulette Weddell. Walter Perkms,
and Dennis Cox will be attending Mt. San Antonio Junior College.
Our Home family has enjoyed good health this past year. The
notable exception was open heart surgery for Timmy Pedretti. As of
this writing Timmy has received the "go-ahead" so that he might engage
in any and all activities. From camp to hospital and back to camp consisted of a time lapse of five weeks.
On June 14. 1969. Grand Master Crigler broke ground for the first
phase of the Covina redevelopment program. Some 3,000 Brethren, their
wives, and children participated in this great occasion. Since the ceremony the grounds have been a beehive of activity with earthmovers,
trench-diggers, architects, contractors, and inspectors, seeing that the
necessary jobs are done and properly inspected so that the ensuing ten
months will insure the preparations of the eight new dormitories for our
children's use. These new dormitories will allow the children to enjoy
a more meaningful "family experience," and will be contructed so that
a brother and sister may live together, rather than be separated as they
now must be.
Many contributions have been received from individuals and groups
this past year. We express our sincere appreciation for this support
and continued interest in our children.
During the summer mon ths our children were housed at Camp
Masonic at Big Bear Lake, California. A mea ningful. comprehensive
program was carried out including "California History Tours" through
the Mother Lode country. Many special trips to art festiva ls. museums,
back-packing trips, and other activities were enjoyed.

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

111

Currently, five young men are active in DeMolay, with three petitions ready for submission. Three girls are in Job's Daughters with three
others indicating an interest in joining. Many of our younger children
are in Campfire Girls. Girl Scouts. and Boy Scouts. as well as our Houseparents being active in P.T.A. and school affairs. Our "family" is active
and involved!
We again extend an invitation to all Brethren , their wives, and families to visit us when time permits. We are grateful to the Board of
Trustees and to our Brethren of California and Hawaii for their continued interest and support. Our children have direction to their lives
and are appreciative of the many acts of kindness and consideration
shown them. We all thank you.
Respectfully submitted.
JAMES C. BLAI NE, Superintendent

112

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
It is with a feeling of fraternal gratitude and appreciation to this
Grand Lodge that our Board presents the 37th Annual Report o f the
Masonic Homes Endowment Board, for the fiscal year of July 1. 1968
through June 30, 1969.
In the mainstream of productive M asonry, the 1968-69 campaign
chalked up several remarkable achievements.
The income from the Homes Endowment Fund this year was
$912.009.47 and that amount has been transferred to the operating
account of our Masonic Homes.
What makes this increase more significant is that the Board operated
on a reduced ann u al expenditure of $10.104.00, compared with
$20.071 .00 during last year. This measure of fraternal economy was advanced by our Grand M aster. With the wonderful support of our Board
members and everyone in connection with our annual effort. we were
able to achieve the record collection without the use of printed mailing
"stu.lfers" and "convenience" remittance envelopes. The savings over
the previous year amounted to nearly $10,000.00. We are, therefore,
thrilled that such a major saving was fin alized, while a t the same time
contributions increased.
BEQU ESTS

Gifts and bequests in the amount of $411.826.53 were received into
the Endowment Fund during the past year. In addition, $1 ,700,119.83
in bequests were received by the Homes direct, from estates wherein the
Endowment Fund was not specifically mentioned in the Will. Thus a
total of $2.111,946.36 was received in bequests during the fiscal year,
hence, my Brethren, the importance of stressing in our Lodge rooms and
meetings the value of bequests and wills for the benefit of our two wonderful Homes.
PERCENTACE OF PARTICIPATION

The report, if carefully read and thoughtfully studied, will reveal
that the Brethren-nearly one half of our 237,000 membership-are continuing to show an increasing interest in our great humanitarian cause.
Many Lodges had impressive increases in contributions which reflect
an accelerated amount of effort demonstrated by those Lodges in nearly
every sector of our State. The past year witnessed a reawakening by
many Lodges, via enthusiastic committees using personalized techniques
to get out the contributions. This "extra" effort of contact work was
responsible for many Lodges scoring higher totals than in several previous campaigns.
This year 111,745 Brethren made cash contributions to the Endowment Fund.

113

Statistically speaking. the percentage of participation has remained
at approximately 47%. Thus, it will be noted-much to our concernthat more than 50 % of the members of our Lodges are still not making
even small contributions to this most worthy cause. We hope that the
"Forgetful 50 % " will join us next year to materially increase the number of contributors.
The individual Board members. in their year-long associa tion with
Lodges in their areas. attempt to inform the Craft that " Masons T ake
Care of Their Own," not only during the fleeting present but for generations to come.
INDIVIDU AL CONTRIBUTIONS T HROUGH LODGES

A total of $886,120.14 was the record mark attained this year
through individual contributions, $22.780.32 up from $863,339.82 a year
ago.
The overall average per contributing member in all Lodges combined
was $7.93 compared to $7.57 per member a year ago. This represents a
new all-time average record considering our slightly reduced total membership and number of contributors.
HONOR ROLL STATUS

Honor R oll status of $2.00 average per member was attained by 631
Lodges. These Lodges deserve our sincere fraternal thanks and congra tulations. Of these, 465 who attained an average of $3.00 or more
are listed below:
No.
800
797
378
566
727
823
307
814
765

781

786
780
327
825

813

278

790

290
776
740
661
745

540
481
56
826

Average
Amount
Per Member
Lodge
Rio Hondo .......................... $19.23
Tila Pass ............................ 11.13
Mizpah ................................ 10.49
James A. Garfield................ 9.80
Verdugo Hills ···-·······-····" 9.79
Maccabbe ..........·-·-·····-··.. ·· 9.72
Santa Monica ...................... 9.37
Plaza de Los Angeles.......... 9.29
Dana R. Weller.................. 9.15
Rolling Hills ...................... 8.63
Rio Linda ·········-················· 8.59
Riviera ................................ 8.44
Long Beach ····-·····-·····-····· 8.34
Gemini .................................. 8.3i
Old West ···············-··········· 8.25
Southern California............ 7.89
Granada Hills ·········-········· 7.86
East Gate ............................ 7.58
East Whittler ...................... 7.54
Opportunity ·····-···-············· 7.47
Malta .................................... 7.44
Peninsula ............................ 7.23
Qul'en Beach ...................... 7.19
Mt. Davidson ...................... 7.06
Volcano .............................. 7.05
Palm Desert ........................ 6.96

No.
117
623

805

737
595
778
779
42
731
699
529

548

599
766
662
202
702
743
764
698
464
373
475
794
483
513

Average
Amount
Per Member
Lodge
Concord .............................. 6.85
Menorah .............................. 6.77
Camellia ....................... ...... 6.77
H illsborough ...................... 6.70
Alexander Graham BdL ... 6.68
La M irada ·····-·-················ 6.68
Five Points .......................... 6.63
Los Angeles ........................ 6.56
Two Rivers ........................ 6.54
Bixby Knolls ........................ 6.50
Loyalty ................................ 6.42
Triangle .............................. 6.35
Ca rmelita ................ ............ 6.34
Tames H . Kew...................... 6.34
Henry Knox ........................ 6.29
Pentalpha ............................ 6.28
Roseme;id ............................ 6.25
Oakwood ....................,....... 6.25
Heritaije .............................. 6.23
Wm. D. Stephens................ 6. 13
Alta Vista-Mount Vernon 6.09
West Los Angeles.............. 6.05
America .............................. 6.04
Mt. Wilson ........................ 6.01
Bell ...................................... 5.99
Cahuenga ............................ 5.98

No.
691
580
733

522

739

242

516
717
335
445
158
95
613
610

706

166
167

287

543
596
506
755
578

612

820
355
636

428

600
455

450
785

261

768
8 16
329
492

422

762
697

412
622
379
769

272
713
512
729

772
538
637

742
377

591
685
732
273
367
1 57

115

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

114

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Avel'sge
Amount
Pel' Member

San Antonio ........................ 5.98
Santa M;uia ........................ 5.96
Golden Empire.................... 5.92
Belvedere-Sunrise .............. 5. 91
La C a nada .......................... 5.89
M a gnolia ............................ 5.88
San Gabriel ........................ 5.85
Wayfarer ............................ 5.82
Vo/est Gate .......................... 5.80
Wilshire .............................. 5.78
Henry S. Orme.................... 5.77
Henry Clay ........................ 5.76
Alta Loma ............................ 5.74
E lmhurst .............................. 5.70
H unters Point Naval.......... 5.67
Ex celsior .............................. 5.66
Culver City ........................ 5.60
Winnedumah ...................... 5.58

3~:rd\a·;;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~j

M ount Olive........................
Golden Bow1 ......................
Progressive ..........................
Tem ple City........................
M a r Vista ............................
H ollywoo d ..........................
John Marshall ....................
San Dimas ..........................
Lynwood ............................
Golde n West ......................
Van Nuys ............................
Paramount ..........................
Hesperian ............................
Zenith ..................................
Wm. B. Ogden....................
Vallee de France................
Garvanza ............................
Eagle Rock ..........................
Coastside ............................
Saint Elmo..........................
Calexico ..............................
Atwater................................
Fillmore ..............................
Palmdale ..............................
Pasadena ............................
Castro Valley ....................
North H ollywood ............_
Centennial ..........................
A venal ................................
Ascot....................................
Palisades ..............................
Morning side P ark ..............
Artesia ................................
Service ................................
San Marino ........................
San Jua n ..............................
Anchor ................................
South Pasadena ..................
Ramona ................................

5.51
5.51

5.50
5.50

5.48
5.46
5.16
5.15
5.15
5.14
5.43
5.13
5.42
5.40
5 .39
5.31
5.33

No.
585
151
716

645
120
715
389
319

812

135
796
372

198
533
818

824
293
117
358
815
300

409
391
652
322

611
660
3
730
819
143
649

728
40
305

5
116

5.29

246

5.27
5.23

758
191

5.21

452
402

5.20

5.15
5.15
5.13
5.1 2

5.11
5.11
5.11

5.09
5.09
5.07

5.05

5.05
5.05

5.05

5.01
5 .03
5.03

593
334
392
320
586

696
537
734
788
137

684
203

741
630
61
441

590

Lodge

Avel'sge
Amount
Per Member

Manchester ..........................
Montebello ..........................
Belmont Shore ....................
A. F. E. Irwin......................
Fidelity ................................
Magnolia Park....................
Palos Verdes ......................
Hollenbeck ..........................
Triad....................................
Fairmount ............................
Golden V a lley....................
G<trdena ..............................
Wilmington ........................
Azure ..................................
Great Lights........................
Camarillo ............................
Orange Grove ....................
Torrance ..............................
Golden State ......................
Mount Baldy ......................
Redlands ..............................
Honolulu ............................
University ..........................
Crescenta Valley ................
Alhambra ............................
Larchmont ..........................
Bald\vin P a rk ......................
Tehama................................
Polaris ................................
Frank S. L and ....................
Franklin ..............................
Florence ..............................
Lakewood............................
Sacramento ........................
A zusa ..................................
Benicia ................................
La Puente ............................
Pomona ..............................
West C ovina ......................
Marin ..................................
San Pasqual ........................
Brawley ..............................
All Sta tes ............................
Covina ................................
West Lake ..........................
South Gate ..........................
Garden Grove ....................
Crossroads ........................
Utopia ................................
Kit Carso n ..........................
Sierra ..................................
Lancaster ..........................
Tro na ..................................
Confidence ........................
San Leandro ........................
Ingleside ............................
Natoma ................................
Coronado ............................
Compass ..............................

5.03
5.01
5.00
1.98
1.97
4.97
4.96
1.95
4.95
4.94
4.91
4.89
4.88
1.88
1.88
4.88
1.87
4.87
4.86
4.85

4.84
4.83
1.78
4.76
4.73
4.72
4.71
4.69

1.64
4.64
4.63
4.62
4.62
4.59
4.59
4.58

4.58
4.56
1.56

4.55
4.55
4.54
4.54
4.53
4.53
4.50

4.50
4.50
4.49

4.48
4.48
4.47
1.17

4.46
4.46
1 .15
4.44

1 .13
4.43

Avel'sge
Amount
Per Membel'

Average
Amount
Lodge
Per Membel'
No.
302 Santa Lucia ...................... 4.42
406 Burbank .............................. 1.41
501 Seaside .............................. 1.11
Tujunga .............................. 4.41
El Rancho .......................... 4.41
Hemet .................................. 1.39
220 Downey .............................. 1.38
753 Lawndale .......................... 1.38
655 Monte Vista ........................ 1.37
738 Arvin .................................. 1.37
418 Elysian ................................ 4.36
484 Albert Pike ...................... 1.36
627 Lama nda Park .................... 4.36
98 Hornitos .............................. 4.35
653 Fontana .............................. 1.35
691 Indian Wells V a lley.......... 4.35
695 Meudell .............................. 4.35
719 Estcro ................................ 1.34
757 Channel .............................. 4.34
589 Kauai .................................. 1.33
222 Roseville ............................ 1.31
376 F rancis Drake .................. 4.31
7CfJ Lorenzo ................................ 4.30
761 Josiah W. Roller ................ 1.30
215 Oak Grove.......................... 4.29
631 Benevolence ........................ 4.28
710 Anacapa .............................. 4.28
397 Rising Light ........................ 4.27
462 Paul Revere ........................ 4.26
611 C anoga ................................ 4.26
641 James A. Foshay................ 1.26
523 Bellflower .......................... 4.25
584 H Jrding .............................. 1.25
635 Riverside .......... ................. 4.24
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey ........ 1.24
352 Sunset .................................. 4.23
200 Truckee .............................. 4.22
663 Ojai .................................... 4.22
510 Cupertino ............................ 4.21
559 Craftsmen .......................... 4.21
656 Citro!.................................... 4.1 9
448 Mount Diablo .................... 4.18
678 A ltadena ............................ 4.18
721 Home .................................. 4.18
803 The Gabilan ...................... 1.18
646 Metropolita n ...................... 4.17
201 Salinas ................................ 4.15
357 Buena Park ........................ 4.15
714 Blue L akes .......................... 1.15
80 Ione ...................................... 4.11
470 Lincoln ................................ 4.14
514 Glendale ............................ 4 .11
577 Sunnyside ............................ 4.14
l California ............................ 4.12
383 Orosi .................................... 1. I 0
414 Arlington ............................ 1.10
174 Drytown .............................. 4 .09
390 Imperial ---------··················· 4.08
3-H Starr King .......................... 4.07

592
759
615

Lodge
No.
771 Waikiki .............................. 4.07

1.06

587

Valley Forge ......................

186
741
324
382
267
336
574

Evening Star ......................
Tyre ....................................
Corona ................................
Highland Park....................
Galt ......................................
Fruitvale ............................
S. W. Hackett....................
Caledonia ............................
San M ateo ........................
Angeles Mesa ....................
Mountain View ..................
Holtville ..............................
San Ramon Valley............
Santa Ana ..........................
San Fernando ....................
South Park ..........................
Moncta ..............................
El C ajon Valley ................
Oildale ................................
Millbrae ..............................
Santa Barba ra ....................
Point Firmin ......................
Mission Bay........................
South San Francisco ..........
Jordan ................................

4.04
4.01
4.03
4.03
1.02
4.02

Lake Tahoe ........................
San Diego ..........................
Vermont Square ................
Fellowship ........................
Beverly Hills ......................
Oakda le ............................
Fullerton ..............................
M ill Valley ........................
La Mesa ..............................
Sa n Jose ..............................
Clay ....................................
Kilauea ................................
Cata lina Island ..................
Carquinez ............................
Ashlar ................................
Sierra Madre ......................
Temblor ..............................
Pea rl Harbor ......................
Coach ella ............................
Pa lo Alto ..........................
Piedmont ......... ...................
Greenleaf ............................
Eucalyptus ..........................
Soqucl ..................................
Palm Springs ......................
Los Alamitos ......................
Fra ncis K. Shattuck............
Woodland Hills -----·--·-·····
Damascus ··--------·-·····--·----·

3.88
3.87

570 Military Service.................. 1.05

486
226

625
194
125
724
211
343
563
405
576
688
792

192
558

771

212
654
793
705
707
35

515
480
528
275
339
356
407
10

101

330
524
337
306
108

177
598

476
346
521
670
243
746
693

809
571

811
648

4.02
1.01
3.99
3.99
3.98
3.98

3.98
3.97

3.97
3.95
3.94

3.94
3.94
3.94
3.92
3.92
3.91
3.90

3.89

~ac:rrii-.;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:~~

3.87
3.86
3.86

3.85
3 .85
3.85
3.85
3.84
3.84
3.84

3.84
3.83
3.82
3.82

3.82
3.8 1
3.80
3.79
3.79
3.79
3.78
3.78
3.77

3.77
3.76
3.76

3.75

116

N o.
50
708
259
79 1
70 1
368
5 12
616
35 1
689
527

20
644
81
752
421
642
804
14
3 1'1
5 19
748
30 1

505
55
424

535
703
265
469
6 13
1 19
632

807
572
104

449
1 79
103
667
618
760
25

677
16
21
319

666
763
93
168

608

787
799
127
4 11
626
489
603

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

P ROC EEDI NGS OP THE

A uerage
Amount
Per Member
Lodge
Fo rbestown ........................ 3.74
Sea fa ring ............................ 3.71
E verg reen .......................... 3.73
Gen. Hcar y H . Arnold........ 3.73
Santa Ynez Valley............ 3.72
U nity -······························· 3.71
P alms .................................. 3.7 1
R. E. Dolley···-··················· 3.7 1
P alestine -·························· 3 .70
Pohona .............................. 3.70
C ovenant ............................ 3.69
W as hington ........................ 3.67
Lomita ................................ 3.67
Yolo .................................... 3.66
Luther Burbank .................. 3 .66
Inglewood -························ 3.65
La Curnbre .......................... 3.65
Mo reno Va lley ·····-··--····· 3.64
Temple ................................ 3.62
Tcmescal - ······-···- ············· 3 .62
E uclid ................................ 3.62
H ighland ............................ 3.62
Ontario .............................. 3.61
Silver Cord ........................ 3.61
Suisun .................................. 3.60
Exe ter ................................ 3.60
A lexander H amilton .......... 3.59
W estchester -······················ 3.59
O rland ................................ 3.58
Yorba Linda ...................... 3.58
T hree Pillars -··················· 3.58
U pland ··-···················· ..····· 3.57
N ormal H eights .................. 3.57
C onejo Valley .................. 3.57
James Madison .................. 3.56
Lexington .......................... 3.54
Pa rk ···········-······················· 3.51
Golden Rule ........................ 3.54
Oroville .............................. 3.53
M eridian ······-············- ···--··· 3.53
Southland - ····-···········-······· 3.52
Lakeside ............................ 3 .51
Georgetown ···········-·····-···· 3.50
Liberal Arts ........................ 3.50
E ureka ................................ 3.49
H awaiian ............................ 3.'19
Sequoia ·······-·············---·--·· 3.19
Rescda ·····-························· 3.49
Arabic ................................ 3.19
St. Helena .......................... 3.48
Redwood City ·- ··············· 3 .18
G ranada ............................ 3.48
Westminster ...................... 3.48
C laircmont M esa ................ 3.48

lermaon ·-·············..·········· 3 .'17

I
Perris ·····-·····-···-·············Chula Vista -···- ·······-.. ······
East Bad ·······················-···
Diamon ·············-·············

3.47
3.'17
3.'16
3.46

No.
621
639
430
657
808

605

619
602
21'1
399
'1 04
789
141
167
221
567
393
674
773
61

209

Averai;ie
Amount
Per Member
Lodge
The Gardens ...................... 3.46
Co mposite .......................... 3.46
McClo ud ........................... . 3.45
John D . Spreckels ............ 3.45
Scepter ···························-·- 3.45
Glassell Park ··········-···· 3.H
Neptune ---········-··-··········· 3.H
Melrose ---······-······..·-·-···· 3.13
San Buenaventura ··- ···-··· 3.42
Fra ternity ............................ 3.42
Glendo ra ·······-····--··············· 3.42
Oak Plains ........................ 3.42
O riental .............................. 3.40
Ala meda .............................. 3.39
In yo ...................................... 3 .39
Searchlight ---··········- ········· 3.39
Ba lder ..........·-······-·--···.. ····· 3.38
Los C erritos ............... _. ____ 3.38
T ejon - ·····-························· 3.38
Live O ak ··················- ······· 3.37
King David's ............. - ....... 3.36
East Belt ···············-··- ······· 3.36
Russian River ...................... 3.35
Ocea nside ···········-········· ..···· 3.35
Capita l City ........................ 3.35
Plumas ................................ 3.34

391
181
381
499
60
3.31
362
4 17
3.3'1
139 C rockett ···- ·-····-·······- ···- 3.33
3.33
396
3.33
582
30 Golden Ga te-Speranza ...... 3 .32
565 West Adams ·······- ··········-- 3.32
173 E lk Grove ............................ 3.31
5'17 Arcad ia·······-······················· 3.31
132 Sincerity .............................. 3.30
193 F erndale .............................. 3.30
196 San Simeon ···················-·.. 3.30
28 1 Mo unt S hasta .................... 3.30
579 Warren G. Ha rding ..·-······· 3.30
113 Eden ···························-······· 3.29
568 Pa rk Bo uleva rd ·-·······--·-··· 3 .29
629 Fa irview ······--·-···- ··-··-- 3.29
2'15 La urel ................................. . 3.28
286 Paso Robles ...............- ...... . 3.28
795 America n River .........______ 3.28
22'1 Bakersfie ld .......................... 3.27
370 Amity-Sea l Rock ··········-···· 3 .27
525 George W ashington ....... . 3 .27
545 V erita s-Jonathan ................ 3.27
549 Justice ···················-..- ··- ····· 3.27
722 G eorge E . Tutt ..............- .. 3.27
801 Koola u ··-···-·········-··········· 3.27
87 N aval ···-······················-- 3 .26
12 Y ount ···················------······ 3.25
338 San Jacinto ···············-··-···- 3.24
'IH Carpinteria ···-············..······· 3.21
26 E l Dorado ················-······· 3.23
658 Livingston ···········- ··- --- - -· 3.23

§~~~i!Y_ :::::::::::::::::::=::~:::::::

~i':Jt~0-=::~~::=::::::=::::=

A verage
A mount
Per M ember
Lodge
No.
231 H ope .................................... 3.22
217 M onterey ............................ 3.21
410 S tandard ............................ 3.21
607 Sojourner - ·-..····················· 3 .21
723 Acalanes ............................ 3.21
431 Alpha ·····-···············-····-··· 3.20
588 E l Sereno --.. ··-·--··············· 3.20
201 Silveyville ·-- ······-----········ 3.19
268 Durant ··-························-· 3.18
315 Norwalk ···-·····---·············· 3.18
631 V ictorville ···················- ····· 3 .17
736 Lemon Gro ve .................... 3 .17
511 H enry Mo rse Stephens...... 3. 16
19 San Joaquin ........................ 3.1 5
328 Redondo ···-······-··············· 3.1 5
436 C laremont ···········-·-············ 3 .15
369 O cean Park ........................ 3. 14
375 Richmond -······-··-·········.. 3. 11
609 Pro vident ............................ 3.11
117 Eel River ··- ·--····-- ······-··· 3.13
207 Anaheim ··- ··-···-···········.... 3.13
123 Y ork .................... ............ 3.13
798 A shland ···········-·····--········· 3 .13
810 Victoria Palms .................... 3.13
195 Buc keye ·- ··········..····-········· 3.1 2
70 E nterprise ............................ 3.11
371 le Prog res de !'O ceanie... - . 3.11
668 San Goroonio .................... 3.10
756 C layton Valley ······-····---· 3.10
680 C armel -··--- ·- - -- - ········· 3.07

11 7

Average
A mount
Per M ember
Lodge
N o.
501 W estwood .......................... 3.06
682 Barstow .............................. 3.06
131 W oodbridge ........................ 3 .05
225 Brooklyn ························- ···· 3.05
237 Guadalupe ...................---··· 3.05
770 La ke C habot ...................... 3.05
5 1 Illino istown ···············-··- ··· 3.01
68 Morning Star ·················-··· 3.01
216 Doric ···-··--················- ·--····· 3.01
15'1 Crocker ................................ 3 .01
500 Roosevelt ............................ 3 .01
552 Sempe r V ircns .................... 3.0 4
58 3 Wasco ................................ 3.04
690 San Carlos .......................... 3.04
228 Athens .......................--·-··· 3 .03
374 Jewel .................................... 3 .0 3
380 Huntington Beach ............ 3.02
471 Delta ...............-................... 3.02
554 Educato r ··-······- ············-- 3.02
59 Gravel Range - ····- ·- --······ 3 .01
150 Molino ...................·-········· 3.01
236 H ills F erry ........................ 3.0 1
297 Dunsmui r ............................ 3.0 1
299
360
647 Hawthorne ........................ 3 .01
673 Far West ·······- ········--········· 3.01
11 M artinez .............................. 3.00
557 H ermosa ..................---········ 3.00

~~b; r~-a~~i;·~;;--vi~t~;:y:::::: ~:~ ~

SPECIA L RECOGN ITIO N T O I NSPECTORAL C o RPS

The Board is grateful for the excellent sup port provided by members
of the six Inspectoral Divisions in the State. These veteran Breth ren have
demonstrated-by their cooperation and experience- a constant concern
for the Endowment program. Through their y ear-long interes t and participation we have a chieved a record year. These Inspectors deserve our
thanks and recognition.
S PECIAL H ONOR D ISTRICTS

All Lodges in the following D istricts avera ged $5.00 or more per
member.
Inspector
Distr ict
Inspector
District
R ober t C. Eulberg
594
Arnold G. Robertson
540
546

Jacques C. Bourguignon

All Lodges in the following D istricts a ve raged $4.00 or more per
member.
District

522
530
532
548

552
556

Inspector
R ay L. Peterson
T . Wm. Heid ner
Roy J . Renville
George W. P erkins
Cletus 0 . Smith
William A. Fishback

District
558
588
592
596
618

622

Inspector
L loyd V. Smith
Robert E. Crist
J a mes D. Kelso
Claud is T . Shirley
L y le C. H all
J ohn H. Fer guson

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

All Lodges in the following Districts averaged $3.00 or more per
member.
District
Inspector
District
Inspector
154
Ray Smith
550
Robert H. Burrows
Morton Tooredman
554
166
Elmer E.
Beck
w.Ross
Walter
168
Frederic E. Clark
560
216
Charles K. Schertle
564
Edward E. Seagle
217
Thomas K McKimson
572
Ray E. Burdg
219
Robert W. Doan
574
A. Boyd Collier
226
Ralph W. Winters
576
Denzil D. Kitchens
330
William Bottorff
578
Robert A. Klinger
338
Edward A. Weirick
580
Robert M. Montgomery
342
William Robusch
582
Edward G. Freeman
Th
378
586
J . Fred Aeschliman
omas H. Wright
Charles H. McAll1.ster
384
Alfred A. Dowers
590
420
C. Lowe
Earl
610
r.
J
Weir,
J.
Casper
430
James H. Weller
612
J . Clifton Carpenter
508
Ted R. Siems
614
Ray H. Paine
516
Stanley L. Channon
616
William W. Dickson
518
Leonard D. Babcock
620
Jack R. Vickers
524
Rodney H. Davis
624
Frank W. Raddatz
526
H. Douglas Lemons
625
George E. Harrison
528
Char les J. Wentz
626
Edward W. Schneringer
534
Phil Campbell
628
J ames E. Wellet
538
K en neth B. Conklin
634
Mark E. Schr ock
542
John E. Mikol
638
Frank L. Sutliff
544
Gordon E. Pledger
639
Roy T. Kiele
COMPARISON OF R ECEIPTS - 1959 TO 1969 THROUGH LODGES
Total
Average
Participating
Lodges' Yearly
Membership
Gift
Members
Contribution
Year
236,870
$7.93
111 745
$886,120.14
1969
239,745
7.57
114:063
863,339.82
t9~~
241.834
~:~~
g~:~~~
gzu~~:g~
1~66
243
572
·
6.84
123.854
846,895.50
1965
244,914
6 62
118,319
783,339.94
1964
~:tn:
6.37
116 339
741,241.47
1963
244,563
6:18
112'.846
669465,787.15
621
1996
1
243 682
5 88
109,733
,453.76
242'.140
5'50
100.266
551,150.34
1960
93,425
A502,120.43
5:37
240 128
l9a5t9 s
'
D a ource: nnual Proceedings of Grand Lodge
An analysis of the accompanying figures covering the past ten years
revea_ls t?a t, although the general membership and the roster of the
contnbutmg members declined in numbers, the actua l dollar amount
of monies collected incr eased. In fact, th e average gift for the yea r
196 9 was $7.93 as noted above - a new all- time hig h for the Grand
Lod!le.
The 1969 contributions s howed an increase o f 2.5 % over last year
alth~~gh . the total Lodge members hip declined by 1.2 % and the
part1c1patmg members lessened by 2.1 %.
I~ order _to maintain this trend in increasing the total dollar amount
contnbuted m the face of decreasing members hip, the r atio of givers
(47.18 % ) to the total members hip w ill h ave to be increased greatly

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

119

although a good goal would be to top the 196 5 figure w h ere 54.65 % of
the Grand Lodge membership donated.
LooGES WITH THE LARG.EST AMOUNTS OF C ONTRIBUTIONS
Amount
Amount No. Lodge
No. Lodge
··-··$4,393.08
··-····--··················-·
Bell
483
$8,459.98
623 Menorah ........................
42 Los Angeles ·-----············ 7,273.03 594 Service ---··-····-····---·-········ 4,366.29
35 San Diego ...................... 4,133.58
450 Van Nuys ...................... 6,376.91
335 West Gate ····-····-----·---···· 6,341.99 290 East Gate ----·-··········---·-· 3,951.24
355 Hollywood ····-·---·-········· 5.923.37 406 Burbank ........................ 3,848.37
596 Guardian ........................ 5,078.52 397 Rising Light .................. 3,596.75
327 L ong Beach ----·············· 5,065.01 655 Monte Vista ·····-··-········· 3,575.76
3 Tehama .......................... 3,548.25
529 Loyalty ......................... 4,905.11
40 Sacramento ···········--·---· 3,488.00
542 North Hollywood ---····· 4,874.81
506 Mt. Olive ····-·-·----·······-···· 4,569.91 220 Downey ··-···········--·········· 3,428.42
Special mention must be acknowledged to this year's leading contributor, Menorah No. 623. under the able leadership of Brother Mil ton
M. R ubin, Wors hipful Master, and a ided admirably by Brother Melvin
D a uber . Secretary. This Lodge continued on a personal mail campaign
after this y ea r' s campaign closed and la test reports indicate that their
tota l collections will be near t he "$10.000.00 mark" - indeed, a beautiful record.
Mention sh ould also be directed to the officer s and Brethren o f Los
Angeles No. 42, to which o ur Boar d Chair man , Worshipful Morris C .
Guss, P.M., is a member. T o compliment a successful year as Chairman,
h is Lodge went a ll out and raised the larges t amount ever recorded in
its 116-year-old h istory. It is also inter estin g to note th at other leading
Lodges, proportiona tely, a m assed larger totals than in previous years
and a number o f t~em made the '' leadin g roll" for the firs t time.
LoDGES WITH THE LARGEST A VERAG E GIFTS
Avg. Gift
Avg. Gift No. Lodge
No. Lodge
823 Maccabee ........................ $ 9.72
800 Rio Hondo ......................$19.23
307 Santa Monica ·········--·--·- 9.37
797 Tila Pass ·············-··---··-···· 11.13
814 Plaza de Los Angeles ... 9.29
378 Mizpah ········-·-············-···- 10.49
765 Dana R. W. Weller........ 9.15
566 James A. G arfield ........ 9.80
727 Verd ugo Hills -·········-····· 9.79
CONGRATULATIONS TO O uR LODGES IN H AWAII
The ten Lodges over in the Isla nds, from the oldest (Hawaiian
No. 2 1) to the youngest (Koolau N o. 801) once again demonstr a ted
that they care a bout our two wonderful Masonic Homes by contributing generously for their support.
Gra teful appreciation is expressed to the M asters of t he Lodges for
spearheading the campaign, ably assisted by t h e Insp ectors of the 382nd,
384t h a nd 385th Districts, w hic h comprise t h e Island Lodges.
Of 3,198 members, th is year's con tributors numbered 1,434, or approximtely 45% - almost coinciding with the average percentage o f
contrib utors on the mainland. We are proud of o ur Lodges in the Islands
and look to them for consistent gains in years to come.

120

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CAMPAIGN WORKSHOPS AND Ams
This year's drive demonstra ted the effectivene ss of personaliz ed contacts within the Lodges to get out the largest participati ng donors,
particular ly among the "Forgetfu l 50%." Lodges organized special
committee s who appealed to the members and supplemen ted their
program by screening, at special meetings or district gatherings , the
beautiful set of slides in color, of highlights at each Home. Board members also gave talks before Lodges and urged members to visit the two
Homes and obtain a first-hand view of what our Homes look like, what
they perform, how the people residing there are grateful and discussion
of future growth. Your Chairman set up four workshop s in every section
of the State and discussed regional problems and programs to cooperate
and assist the area Brethren in charge of the program. Such innovation s
proved s uccess ful. Greater emphasis is to be placed to reach the vast
number of potential givers in the Lodges.

SPOTLIGHT ON PERSONNEL
Your Chairman , called from the "sidelines " to direct the campaign.
found the current list of Board members interested . sincere and committed to the aims of the program. My personal thanks to each for the
help they gave during the year.
It is with the deepest fraternal regret that I announce the termination
of Board membersh ip of four "veteran" members; Kent Seymour, LeRoy
L. Ervin, Henry A. Allcock and M. J. Dungan. Their contributi ons
towards the cause will be long remember ed and we appreciate their interest "to insure the continuan ce of loving care."
Your Endowme nt Board is confident that the spirit of true charity
demonstra ted again this year through your donations will continue next

OUR GRATEFUL THANKS
Special appreciati on must go to our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Robert A . Crigler, who has been an inspiration to all of us. He has
proven an invaluable leader. During his hundreds of thousands of miles
of travel during this year, he has constantly reminded the Brethren of
their opportuni ty and privilege to help in the support of their Homes
for the Aged and the Children. Your Board wishes to personally acknowledg e the results of his intense interest.
In addition, mention mus t be made of the invaluable assistance provided the Board by members of the Grand Master's "official family"particular ly the Assistant Grand Lecturers and Inspectors .
During the past year no coercion or pressure in any way was used.
We have endeavore d individual ly and collectivel y to tell the story of the
necessity for support of our two Homes and the privelege that is given
to members of our 705 Lodges in California and Hawaii.
Our Masonic thanks, therefore, should go to 111,000 contributo rs
among the 237.000 members of our Craft. It is our fervent hope that
next year the number of contributo rs will materially increase.
My sincere thanks to the Brethren called on throughou t the yea r the Lodge Officers. Committe emen, "side-line rs," and especially the
Secretarie s who play an important role in our annual campaign.
My sincere thanks is extended to the Grand Lodge office staff. It is
a real joy to work with such a fine, loyal and dedicated group of employees.
Our work has been a great pleasure. First, because of the high and
lofty purpose, and, second. because of the unselfish devotion of so many
members cooperatin g with the Board. The two Masonic Homes are the
embodime nt of those truly Masonic tenets of Brotherly Love and Relief
and should be the source of our greatest satisfactio n as men and as
Masons.

MASONI C HOMES ENDOW MEN T
BOARD
MORRIS C. Guss, Chairman
RoBERT D. LINTNER, Vice Chairman
RALPH A. LARSON, Vice Chairman
PAUL A. PPLUEGER , Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M .. Secretary

121

yearandinthefutur~

"For the greatest of these is Charity."
Respectfu lly submitted ,

BOARD M EMBERS
HORACE H. MITCHELL
HENRY A. ALLCOCK
THOMAS K. H. WONG
CARL A. GREEN
GARNETT RJ NGSMITH
GLADSTONE A. GILLETTE
E. E . THOMPSON
ROBERT D . LINTNER
JoHN F. STEIGER
WM. HENRY JOHNSON
RICHARD JOLLEY, JR.
RICHARD A. }OLLY
JosEPH WAIAN
RA LPH A. LARSON
JACK F. BOWLEY
LEROY L. ERVIN
RAYMOND KENTRO, JR.
MAURICE J. DUNGA N
ELWOOD ADAMS
GASTON C. AuBINEAU
RICHARD w. RYLANDER
JOHN H . SHAFFER
CONRAD J. SPENCER

122

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

123

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA
ENOOllMENT FU ND
1'\EHORI ALS

JULY 1, 1968 - JU NE )0, 1969
Edwin E. Abbott
Leon R. Abbott
Albert Abda llah, Sr.

(The lodge designation iodicate s con nection by

interest but not necessarily by membership)

Hanuel James Aced

GIFTS ANO DONATIONS
ESTATES;

Maud Ackley
Robertina Sophie Badgley
1'\argaret Stuart Bernard
Florenc e 11. Bradley
Ellis B. Burrou9hes
Eva L. Christie
Stephen R, Coffee
£1mer Crowe
Jeanette E. Oa I e y
Dale L, Hans e n
Louise S. Hi 11
Ru t he 1'1, Holmes

Edwin Kerr Jackson
Lert L. Luken s

John B. & Ge o rgia HcDonald
George Le land Me ssa 11
Lulu J. Me ssa l I
El mo Ro der ick Hi lier
Frank Hiller
Arthur O'Neill
Hugh II. Parkes
Robert C. Peyton
James Jacob Reams

Benedetto F. Ross i
Bertha Sherwood
John \I. S i t le r
Alfred J. Strei
Orville C. Sweeney
James C. Thcwnpson
Arshague Toprahan i an
Herman V. Van Kessell
Iii II iam H. Iii I din
HISC:

(Pasadena lodge No. 272)
(Ye rba Buena Lodge No. 403)
(Si Iver Gate Lodge No. 296 )
(John P. Jarman Lodge No, 669)

(Elysian Lodge No. 418)
(Eureka Lodge Ho. 16)
(Nava 1 Lodge No . 87)
(San Pedro Lodge No, 332)
(Alexander Hamilton Lodge No. 535)
(Kemet Lodge No. 615)
(West Lake Lodge No, 392)
(\le st Lake No. 392)
(Apollo Lodge No. 396)_
(Golden Gate Speranza No. 30)
(So uthland Lodge No.618}
(Pre s idio Lodge No. 354)
(S acramento Lodge No . 40)
(El mhurst Lodge No. 610)
(El Centro Lodge No. 384)
(Monc ta Lodge No. 405)
(Hi gh land Park Lodge No. 382)

Associated Chariti es Hanagement Employees
R. G. Awerkamp
Howard C. Baker
R. E. Barbour

Raymond o. Beaver
Ben Ali San Joaqu in Shrine 'club
Henry F. Bennett

Erwin & Pearl Brown
H. P. Brown
Beverly J, Cassaday
Hrs. Matthew Codon
Daleth Chapter, Order of the
Gold e n Sli pper 11.H.C.
Ernest De Leon
Rach el Fox

Hr. t Mrs. Ferdinand French
Gene r a I Te I ephone Co
Grand Ro yal Matrons Project
High 12 Club
Khaba Court Be I ls
Hr. & Hrs. Alvin Lesser

Ha rvin Lewis
L ibrascope A.1.0. Club
Long Beach Ha sonic Club
1

'H 11 Masoni<; Club

Chester R. Hae Phee

Hrs. Adams
2,922 .22
79.427 .90
2,500.00
12,645. 73
37' 135. 19
525 .87
2,080 . 64
25,990.38
4,010. 85
1,086.79
3,535.31
1,041.59
22,064.72
2,805 .64
38,490.07
604. 04
901. 11
500.00
102,731.09
8,805 . 00
7 .00
1,000.00
53 .63
1,000.00
1,744.47
49,347 .82
2 ,300.00
3,050.47
19.00
2,000. 00
1,000.00
500.00

Hasonic Wanen 1 s Assoc. AILHnni
Hr. & Hrs. Eve rett H. Merriman
Mo bi l Oil Corp. Employee s
Stephen G. Nelson
H°""'ard Paine
PE Chapter , Order of the Golden
SI i pper H.H.C.
Raytheon Company
Hr s . C. A. Rooney

Norman Rose
Royal Matrons &. Patrons Assn

George U. Ruuth
Sa Ii nas Area Comnun i ty Chest

Sa n Harino Foundat i on Inc~
San Pedro ' Harbo r Coundl R&SH #45

Schultz Foundation
Southern Pacific Square & Canpass Club
Hrs. Nel I ie Spa inhowe r
Hrs. Hildred G. Tattersal I
P. J. Tichtcnber ge r
Sue T. Trea t
TRI/ Systems "E:mployecs Charity Org.
219th Dist . Office rs Assn F&AA
Ru ssel I Tu! ly
Un i tcd Chariti es F' un d of Ly""°od.
II. J, Voit Rubb e r Corp.
L. Rudy Weber
Hrs. Robert L. llhite

Char 1e s CI yde Adams
Hubert W'. Adams
Iii 11 Jam H. Adams
Samuel Aidclberg
Oona I d K, Ake y
Fran k A 1brecht
Junne A I e;i.::ande r
Charles S. Altho use
Alden Ame s
LeRo y Amrh i ne

Chr is tian Andersen
Alfred Francis Anders o n
Carl G. J. Anderson
Carl Wil me r Anderson

Cl ive H. Anderson
Hary Moody Anderson
Paul Armstrong
Samuel J. Arnold
Andrew Asp I und
Charles Koplen Atla s s
Leon S. Auri ch
Rache 1 Baba
Char les G. Backenstoe

Grace Bieler

Albert Bierschwal
Grace Bigga r
Jane Q. Bi nda
Eugene W. Biscai l oz
Gwynn E. Bi shop
Herman A. Bitter
Floyd F, Black
Harjorte Th i rd rig Black
Kenneth G. Blac kma n
David J. Blank
Roy L. Bl css i ng
William A. Bli ss
George Bogus I aw
Herman Boldt
Raymond P. Boltinhouse
Myron II. Booth
1

Pauline Borges
Rose Patricia Bosse
llilliam Egbert Bouton
Lorena Bowe rs
Stuart Bruce BCM'eS

John T. Bradley
Mrs. Bradshaw
Ros e Braunste in
Paul G. Brecke nridge
Joe Bre 11
Mayb e ! le Brendel

George Bacon

Marga ret S. BresJauer

Celia Baer

Ra I µh Nat ha n Brodi e
Gus s ie Brodofsky
Albert R. Brokaw
Harold w. Brooke
Richard Abner Brooks
Theodore II. Brower
Gerald H. Brcrwn

Charles No rman Bahrenburg
Do rothy Bake r
Thomas I. Baker
Winifre d F. Bake r
Raymo nd J. Ba 1d i
Roy H. Baldridge
Haud Balutis
Eva Banzhaf
Bonnie Baratono
J o seph Wayne Barksdale
John Barnard
George A. Baron
Arthur ll. Bars i
Joy Pete Bartels
Lloyd D. Barze e
Dshe r Bashk in
Ernest G. Bashor
Albert Stanle y Bates
Herman C. Baug hn
Louis A. Bazzuri
Elizabe th A. Beane
Steven Beck
Harcus Be hr
Robert 0. Bemis
Ila 1 fred Bengston
George Washington Bennett
Glenn D. Bennett
Guy Vernon Bennett

He nry Edward Bennett, Sr.
Irene Be nnett
Hi I ton ll. Bennett
George E. Benson

Aurelio Bernilrdi
Gene Berry

Iva M. BrCMn

Luth e r F. Brown
Iii 11 iam Enoch Brown
Lester G. Bruno
Halcolm llhyte Buchanan
Jean Bucklin
Harry ~ercher Budd
Thomas P. Bumpass
Adella B. Bunting
A. Lawrenc e Burbank
Everet t Burgess
Andrew Burn
John Burson
Mary Louise Burson
Lucy Burton
Ferd II. Callison
Iii J l iam Donald Cameron
Florence Camp
Esten II. Campbe 11
John E. Campbe 11
Pau I Horace Campbe 11
Themas Jacob Carter 1 Sr,
Adam C. Cartwright
Phil Cass
Jack Cas well
Andrew Cavagnaro
Earl 0. Caylor
Fred Ce bal o

Hi 11 iard B. tenter
Haze I Chadwick
Ray Chance
Hatti e B. Chandler
Ross II, Chandler
George Eric Chapman
Lee Ro y Chapman
Hrs. Les t e r E. Chapma n
Iii II iam Ho rton Chari t on
Harlon Chas e
II i 11 iam Hax Chauncey
I/alter J. Chencrweth
James Edgerton Chick
Robert C. Chidester
Leon J. Chi Ids
Hax Chin i tz
Allan Chris t ian
Olive II. Clapperton
Edwin C. Clark
Liela Cla r k
Thomas Tedfo rd Clarke
James Clasby
Fritz Clax ton
Keith . Cl on inger
Rus se 11 M. Clover
Obe A. Coc krill
Clifford E, Coggins
Al Cohen
Elg in S. Co le
Elizabeth Cole
Gilbert Cole
Howard Cole
Charles W. Coll ins
John T. Col liver
Elli s Colman
Blanche Co 1vi n
Hazel Colvin
Edwin J. Conn, Sr ..
Edwa rd Cook
La vel le Kathrine Cook
Robert Pau l Cooksey
Iii 11 iam Cooper
El !wood D. Cooper
Rex fo rd Ray Cooper
Herbert F. Copeland
Fred Cowan
Clifford T. Cox
Frances Cox
Lil lie A. Cox
Stephen B. Cox
Luelva Crabi 1 1
Glenn H. Crampton
Elbert Earl Crandal I
Clyde E. Crawford
Ray Crawford
John Louis Cre l I in
Gertrude C. Crews
Elmer O. Crittenden
Amelia Crooks
Cathleen Harie Cross
Thcwnas J. cr""'e
James B. R. Culbertson
John Loy Cunningham
Robe rt E. Cur ran

124

Morrison B. Currey
Robert H. Currey
He I I Cushman
James L . Da Foe
\/alter Dailey, Sr.
Joe B. Daugherty
George II. Davey
John II. Dovey
C. Cecil Davis
\Ji 11 iam Laine Davis
Ear I l. Daymude
K. O. Dea n
Yolande V. Decker
Viola Bel le Oei I
Amedeo Dellartino
Charles A. Delong
J o hn Dennis
J. Denton
Edward C. Dern
Fr•nk J. Deutsch
John II. Devereux

Sarah Dickinson
Charles C. Di e bo ld
Edward J. Diehl
Harr y H. Di et sch
E lmer Dismuke
Ceci I R. Dobe 11
Fred Edward Doc tor
Charles Thomas Dodge
Ii i 11 iam Clarence Dodson
Oscar Rodney Doe rr
Thomas P. Doe rr
Bertram Ma tthew Dolan
Harga ret Donal ds on
Elizabeth Do nlon
Jose ph J. Oorsa
Mar ion Doss
Hubert Dowell
Daniel Randolph Drewry, Jr.
lou Dubin
Edgar Ray Dufer
Me rcer Duff
Erwin Dean Duke
Lo la Dulfer
Paul B. Duncan
Henrietta Ill l hemina Dunn
J ohn Our re 11
Edward Og Dyer
Alma L. Eastoo
Arthur Ernest Ebke
I oez Edwards
J, Howard Edwards
J ohn II. Ellery
A l onzo II. Elli ot t
Frederick Frankl in Elli ot t
Henry W. Elli s
Bonnedeane Eppolito
Lou i s Eppstei n
Cha r l es Epstein
Charles H. Erickson
Fl orence Eroest
Newt Euda ly
Helen Elizabeth Eves
Charle• Exner

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
HEH OR IALS (Continued)

HEHORI ALS (Cont inued)

Daisy Falnot
Hubert II . Falcon
Donald E. Farr is
Charles \/ill iam Far raw

l\el vl I le Ray Kilpatrick
Ii i 11 lam Di ckson Kil pat rick
Elizabeth Kt ng
Pal mer F. Kinne
J ohn A. Kl rby
Art h ur S. Kirkpatrick
C. Kleiman
Arth ur J. Kleme r
David. Eugen e Kl inkenborg
Her bert R. Klocks iem
John Ro bert Kl otz

Ben Fa vo rman Assun t a Ferrante
Claude Ferrero

Phi I ipp N. Ferr is
\/alter E. Field
A . Bruce Fisher
CeciT Fisher
George C. Fisher
Harry Iii lfred Fisher
Hen ry 0. Fisher

Raymond H. Fisher
Arthur RCMland Fle t c her
Robe rt Fl a tten
Fred II. Folsom
Ralph Fomil
Rene G. Fontaine
Ira II. Ford
Iii 11 iam F. Fosbery
Fl oyd Alvin Foskett
Ila I ter Foskett
George C. Foss
Iii 11 i am Fotherg i 11
Ha r r y B. Fox
Harold L. Fraser
Ha ze l Freeman
Robert II. Fri berg
George Fri end
Ernest Gauger
Hanue I F . Ge orge
Oscar O. Gephart
Anna Louise Germeshausen
Theres a Gerritsen

Matthew Geurts
Ben Kenneth Gib son

John A. Gi Ibe r g
Georges Gunn Gilbert
Earl Leroy Giles
Gladys Cronkite Giles
Cec il F. Gill
Clyde P. Gilmore
Robert A. Ci l more
Glen Herman Glafke

Samuel Gl icksman
Emanuel J. Glueck
Harry Goodman
Ha r old L. Goodwin
J ohn Gordon
ttaur i ce Gor 1i n

Donovan Gould
Ed ga r J . Gowen
Enn i s II. Gr able
Wi lb ur G. Gr af
Cora H . Graham

Granvil le E. Graham
I saac Grant

J o hn Franklin Grant
Thomas Grant
Ne l son II. Grau
l\elvin L. Graves
Elmer P. Gray

Gilbert G. Green
Oswa l d Greenhalgh
Harol d P. Greenman
Ewell 11al ooe Griffin
Jessie Gri ffith
Herbert Gr indstaff
John William Grocsch
Arthur Gr o lz
Paul Gros
Hormar1 G. Gro5'
Chorles s. G..,,p
Alvin Cerlyle Gundred
Do ra Guss
Jacob Guterdi ng
Lyd I a Hab I ch
Jul i us A. Hachtmann
Ada Le ona Hacke
August 11. Hagemann
Carl T. Hale
Almer E. G. Hal I
Iii ldred Hal I
Char les T. Hal I iday
Edw i n P. Hal lock
Sidney A. Halsey
George Nob I e Hanmond
Garnett Sh"" llaoco.;k
Hargare t Hand
Edd ie Hanks
Ande rs llansen
Helger G. Hansen
A I pha Hanson
Julius Grafton Hanson
I rma Harri s
Verl C. Harris

William c. Harrison

Charles H, Harte r
Richard H, Hartje
Nina Hartman
Anna ·S. Hawken
Christopher J. Hawkes
Thrusto n Hawks
Er nest T. Haw thorne
Phi I ip Marion Heisc h
Alice Hengst

Harcourt Hervey, Jr.
Stephen Herzo g
Russell A. Hetzer
Edwl n H. Hi l debrond
J ohn Adr ian Hi 11
Osca r E. Hill
Charl es Ado lph Hintermann
Charles W. Hire
Maur ice Hi r schenbe in
Chr ist ian Hansen Hju1
Emi I Hoerchoer
J . H. Hoffman
Jen Hoffma nn
lly ron J . Ho laday
Gl e n C. Ho l bert
Hoke R. Hollifield
George H. Hollingsworth
E. Phelps Lee Hollywood
Ge o rg e 8. Ho Imes
J ohn E. Ho lmgren
Ray P. Hoover

Davi d Berti 1 Hope
Theodore Richard Hopman
Henry Ho r andt

Harvin Grant Horton
Herritt R. Hosme r
George P . Hotchkl ss
El I wood N. Hough
Haze I F. Howard
Iii 11 iam E. Howe I I
George £ . Howl and

Robert Hozi er
Edwin E. Huddleson
Gr ego ry Hughes
Michael Brian Hughes
Sa 11 y Hughes
Scott Hughes
Housto n .Hu 11
Harr y Hume
Op he 11 a Hurley
James Hurst
Edward Jabbour
Abraham Jaber
II rs. Ken Jacks
Bernard Clarence Jackson
John R. Jacobs, Jr.
Ila l ter Z . Jac ob·s
Iii 11 l a m 0 . Jacoby
Roge r Le e Jac q uay
Fr ed II. Jaehnig
Elme r Jaoetsky

Lou is Janow
Iii 11 iam E. S. Ja rr ett, II
Hi lo Sidney Jeffe rs
Olaf A. Jernberg
Charles 8. J ohnson
El i zabe th f. Johnson
Omar F r ank Johnson
Robert G. Johnson
\/ i ll iam V. Johnson
Debo rah Lucille Johnston
Fr ancis F. Johnston
Coleman E. J o i ley
David Her s tle J ones
Hynar d Jones
Osc ar E. Jordan
Rudolph Jo rdan
Law re ne e II. Judd
E. N. Jud so n
Fred W. Ju rge ns en
Ila l ter Kaa re
Charles Lawrence Kaiser
Harry K. Kaiser
J omes Loren Kai lam
Edward Kay
Bert Ka zanji an
'1aur ice. Wi I bur Keene
Robert Kei ser
J ohn 8. Kelley
J ohn A. Kemp
Car I Ken da I I
Lansford F . Kengle, Sr.
F r e d Ke rn
Fl ora l\yrtle Ker se y
Benjamin Fr anklin Kettlewell

Truman Knaut!:r

P eter Knight
Jer ry K. Knoll
R. C. Know 1 ton
Hr s. Billie Kollman
Beu I ah Koranda
Emme tt Kost I an
Guy Wes l ey Kraft
Mar garet Kresler
Joseph Krieger
Ho Iberg Peter Kris tens en
Ii i 11 iam Vreeland Krowl
Kathr yn Kuerzel
Horris Kuge lman
Fra nk Y. Ku pper
Arthu r Laforge
Edwa r d Laid I aw
Clifto n T. Lambort
F r ank L . Lambertson
Ha rt in Landfald
Carl O. Landin
Law rence E. La nge
Harold llood ruf f La ng1ol5
Edward Langstaff
Frank R. Lantz

Anders Sirnon La rsen
Mrs . Allan T. Larson
Alvar F. Larson
Feliz La ssal le
Talmage G. Latham
Richard E. Launer
Daniel H. LaVier
George U. Law
Hel i ssa Lea
Betty Leadbetter
Harry J. Leason
Ila rt in Leggerl n i
Al ice L. Le tz le r
llar y Blanche Lewi s
Ed ga r Lewnan
Sam Ltdde l
lra Lee L indsey
II. Seo t t Li ngo
\lade Hampton L itt le
Alban W. Lloyd
Lore n A. Lloyd
Raymond LI o yd
Joh n F r e de r ick Lo bb
llrs. F rank Lo bbett
Le o nard Lockye r
Alvar Lofg ren
George II . Long
Chauncy Hiles Lott

125

Jack Lough ridge
Ber t Love

Habel Lowe
Frederic k H. Lowell, Sr.
J o hn Bert Luker
Emmett \/right Luttrel I
Charles P . HacGregor
He i 1 E. Hacquarr ie
Glenn B. Hadden
Carl S. Hadsen
Mrs. E. A. Majors
John N. l\alv in
Eu gene Ludwig Hamath
Cec i l e Mankus
Ri chard L. Hann, Sr,
Stanley A. llann
Darius Rowe Hansell
Marjie Marchi
Stanley A. Harik
Ben Har i no
Celia 8. Harsden
l\arjor le Marshal 1
Benjamin Harrison Hartin
Byron H. Hartin
John J . "artin
Leonard Ma rtin
William S. Hartin
Eileen 11a rt inet

Ju les E. llartine t
Chr is /last
'1. Verne Hasta i n
Kurt /lathes
\/infield Scott Hathew, Jr.
Hans Christian Mathiesen
Lo renz E. Hatsch ke
\/alter J. Hatson
Hazen Lee Hatthews
II. Guy Ha tthews
Arthur B. Maxwell

James W. Meacham
llrs. Iii l t iam Mellema
J ames l\el rose
Raymond C . Menge I
Stella ti. Mettler
A. M. Meurer
He n r y He yer
Louis Hi chalk. Jr.
Carl 11111 iam Michel
Leroy Middleton
J ulius " i ldwurm
Do nald R. Hi ll er
Frank Sylvester Iii lier
Hawa rd H. Mi Iler
Ro la nd Alvi a Hiller
II . Robert Ii i 1 ler
llill i am Burnet t Hil l er
Ne I son I(. II i I l i ken
Ge orge C. Hi 11 s
Burr C. Mitchell
Cha rles Ri chard Hoak
Hugo Hoeller
Doug l as B. Hoffat
Glad ys V. l\o hr
Hen ry C. Hohr

126

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

HEMORI ALS (Continued)
John Molter
Richard L4 Hoon, Sr.
fdwa rd J. Hooney

Harold Frank Orr
Clyde Bruce Outhier

Frank Proctor Mooney

Joseph D. <>wens
Robert H. Page
Frank Pagone
Orville Palmer
James A., Panos
Lauri U. Panttaja
Habel Paradise
frank Park, Sr.
Ralph Waldo Park
John Parker
William Nuttall Parkinson
Harold Parks
Homer Parris
Lewis Elbert Parsons
David S. Patterson
Hi nn i e Patterson
Joseph B. Patton
Carl v. Payne
Ni lsine Peacock
Oscar 8.. Peavey
Phi 1 ip Leroy Peck
Sedley C. Peck
Sophie KcNeder Peele
Siegfried Pe ls
Edward L. Petersen
Fred Arthur Petersen
Pe t e r Pete rsen
Ange 1e Pete rs on
Archie Rogers Peterson
Edward Peterson, Jr.
Richard A. Peterson
Alma E. Pflueger
Luc ill e Sack Phi 11 lps
Edward G. Piel
Hrs. Earl II. Pierce
Roy W. Pi I Iman
John Frederick Pitts
Adolph Pizzano
Theodo r e H. Poage
William Pocklington
George A. Politis
J ohn H. Pope
Roy Swain Pos t
Evange 1 i ne Potter
George II. Powe\ l
Mary Powe r s
Michael Pratc h
Clyde Price
Constance Price
Lott i e P ri nee
John c. Pritz
J ohn Raymond Prosser
Victor Lawrence Puccinelli
Chester Wi Ison Pulley
Mayme E. Puthoff
E. 8. Quinn
Hartin Quinn
Arthur W. Rafferty
Wa l ter M. Ragsdale
Willi am R. Ralston
\Ii l 1 iam llax Ramel

Charles Moore
Charl e s B. Hoore, Sr.
Deane Bloyer Hoa r e
Gus Morehouse

Horace G. Horgan
Ralph Thomas Mo rgan
Ver non Horris
El la El lzabeth Korris o n
John R. Mos crop
Emanuel Moss

Harry Erne st Hotley
Emma Hoxon

Benj amin L. Hoyers
Haybel le Hui ford
William Harold Murphy, Jr,
11111 i am Frederick Myers
Frank Lawrence KcCabe
Louis T. HcCarthy
Ardis B. HcCauley
Habel HcCauley
James HcCul loch
D. Lance Hc Oonald
Martin A. McDona Id
Kenneth H. HcGaughy
Fra nce s E. McGinness
Hugh J. McGinnis
Edward He I ntyre
Benjamin Frankl in McKim
Clifford A. KcKinley
Albert HcK i nney
Edward F. HcLe nnan
Mrs. Vincent P. HcMurdo
C. Le roy McNally
Li 11 i an C. McNa r y
Miche l G. Nagy
Marshal 1 Naiman
Martha Neff
Albe rt Nelson
J. H. Nethe rton
Ellen Newell
Percy D. Newe 11
Alta A. Newman
George II . Newton
Les 1 i e Edgar Newton
Howard Nichols
Rosa B. Nichols
~aul Julius Nielsen
Anna C. Ni le s
A. Ray Ni sh
Thanas Carrol 1 Ni xcn
Charles Oakley
Oscar Gordon Oatridge
George L. Oblath
lzso Ob l ath
William V. Offutt
Mi nn i e Olsen
Iii l l iam Harry Onions
Charles F. O'Kal l ey
Walt er Elgin Orcutr
Edward Ordway, Sr.

Louise H. Overholser

11EHORIALS (Continued)
Bert Randall
Nathan 8. Randa 11
John Christ i an Rasmusse n
Fl ore nce Ray
Norman E. E. Ree d
Ro land James Reed
Ray Reedy
Geor ge N. Reese
Ruth II. Reese
Hilla rd Merton Reeves
Fo rre s t W. Reifsnyder
t'larj orie Re nner
Hrs. Ray Resch
Ado lph G. Resler
Fletc h Reynolds
Richa rd R. Reynolds
Annie V. Rice

Fred Richards
Mary Ri chards
Vernon C. Richards
~aro l d Richard son
Morgon Walter Rich•rdso n
Gl e n Paul Richey
A. H. Riebeling
Phi Ii p J o hn Ri ekenberg
W. A. Riley
Nm1a Lee Roam
George II. D. Robbins
Charles H. Roberts
Francie Robertson
Harold Robertson
George A. Robinson
W. Price Robinson
Ruth 8. Rodda
William C. Rodgers
We ndell Hoerle Roller
W. J. Ro i lston
Irv i ng Root
lure A. Rosberg
Burton James Rose
Ida Rose
Jerome S. Rose
Ann Rothenberg
Florence Round s
Adria n Roy
David Rub ens t ein
Clifford Rucker
Frances Rudd
Charles John Rundstran
Bert R. Runyon
Ralph F. Rutherford
Hrs. Jennie Sabine
Rae Sacks
Thanas F. Sadler
George St. John
Nora Salomon
Mary Salwa sser
Orv Il l e E. Sarrmann
Bertha Samuel
llar k A. Sawrie
Barney H. Schal lenberg , Jr.
\Ii l 1 i am T. Schaafsma
S . H. Schasteen
Je rane L. Schiller

Carl R. Sclrnidt
Jenny Schneider
Horst Arno Schober
John R. Schoenfeld
Frank W. Schrader
Herbert Schroeder
Lewis Schuessler
Etienne A. S c h ...acher
Sylvia Schwartz
Demba Runkle Sconlon
Elvia Leotha Scott
Donald II. Scribner
Ha rold Seagle
Les ter F. Secor
Horry Seve l
Iol a M. Seymour
J. 8. Shack• l ford
Pat Shannon
Henry Al e xis Shefoff
John E. Shell e y
David B. Shenson
Charles J. Siems
Orlon Orvis Siewert
Fred L. ·Slglle
Abe Si lbennan
Hrs. Ernest R. Silva
Carl W. Simon
Frank Sims
J. G. Sjoberg
Tl 11 le Slackman
George S l ater
Frederick B, Smiley
Alfred Me r ritt Smlth
Charl es Edward Smith
Claude Byron Smith
Earl J. Smith
H. Gilman Smith
James C. Smith
Louis Theron Smith
Ludia H. Smith
llae V. Smith
Minni e Hay Smith
Otis S. Smith
Sanborn H. Smi th
Wit I lam S. Smith
Me rril L. Snow
Puc Snyder
Wilhe lmina Soderholm
Fred Henry So l""'
Samue l Solanon
Andrew Sorensen
Charle s Kohle r Spear
Francis Waldo SpeAnnan
Charl es Edward Spooner
Fred Ambrose Spurgeon
Harl""e llcVicker Stafford
A. E. Staneart
Elli as Peter Stankovi c h
Doroth.y Stan ley
Charles B. Stanton
Lenus H. S tatler
Cecil Varian Ted Statts
Bill Stehman
Ju1n[ta Stephan

Ellen Stephans
H. ·Guy Walford
Archel R. Stephens
John F. Ila Iker
WI l I I am l • Steve ns
Jos~p h Raymond Walker
Samuel B. Stevenson
John T. Wal 1
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.
Gus sie T. Wallace
Leslie R. S tewa rt
Harry Dwight Wallace
Roy 11 1 l1 iam Stewart
Shirley Virgil Walsh
Hrs. Douglas R. Stiehl
Anita E. Wats on
Charles c. Stillman
Everett Waters
Anne Stojkov ich
Leslie A. Wa t son
Clarence Strand
J ohn Weaver
II i Id red Strand
Marvin F. Weeks
Haro Id Leona rd Strebe
John L. Weigand
Charles E. Street, Jr.
Henrietta Weinstein
Arthur Frederick Strong
Gladys Weise
Ralph W. Sturgis
Charles C. Wenger
Arth ur Raymond Sutherland
August Wenz
William Swift
Gerald F. Wetzel, Jr.
Samue 1 Taback
Jack Wherry
CI a renc e Tabor
He rbert A. Whippl~
llyron F. Tannahill
Sonia Whitgob
Cha rles Henry Tanne r
David Richard White
Kenneth Lysander Tattersall Geo rge W. Whit e
Fran Tawny, Sr.
Mrs. Lau ri Wickman
Edwin J. Taylor
Roy Wi eland
James E. Taylor
Frede ric k E. Wi I helm
Jesse Neese Taylor
Wi 11 lam Kenneth WI l kes
Marlon llcCartz Teannan
Earl J. WI l lard
George H. Terreau
Robe rt H. WI 1 l ard
Pierre 8. Thomas sett
Arthur ·O. Williams
Kenda I 1 II. Thompson
Ge o rg e WLl 1 lams
Pau 1 Thompson
Lesli e J. Williams
Evelyn Thorensen
Ralph Ray WI 11 iams
Geo rge Lawrence Thornton
P. v. Wi I son
Nonnan T. Thorp
Walter Rolston Wilson
A. B. Tichenor
Virgil Leonard Winkler
John Tingen
Ray WI nqu I st
Annie L. Ti tlcw
Emil Winter
Arthur Leon Todd
Verne Wtzenried
Samuel James Cowan Todd
Mrs. Frank A. Wishart
J ohn a. Tompkins
Georg~ Henry Wissmann
Robe rt H. Tor r ey
Ke lvin Wallace Wood
Arth ur E. Travis , Sr.
Theresa Wood
Otto C. Tretten
WI l l iam Dale Wood
We s l cy B. Trotman
Ernest O. Woo l
Ge orge C. Ty ler
Cl arence S. Wright
Gus5ie Tyler
Philip J. Wuest
J ohn H. Upton
Carl Wunne r
Keith Eugene Vance
Ll oyd R. Yarrow
Chauncey L. Vander Bie
G. Everett Young
Henry C. Vanderhook
George II. Young
J ohn C. Van Dyk
John H. Young
Winifred Van Hagen
LI l l i an Youngman
Nell o Vanni
Wi II lam W. Zel I
Gordon N. Van Honnan
E, J . Zwink
Hay H. Vaughn
Ba rbara Logan Vecher
Cha rl es Harris Victor
Frances Vince
Earl Vincent
James Richard Vogle
Charles E. Wad e
Auggie Waegemann
Lee J. Wahl

127

128

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OP CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENDOWMENT FUND

No.

*Denotes Honor Roll
No.

I
2
3
5
8
9
10
12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
21
25
26
27
30
32
33
35
37
38
10
41
42

13
H
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59

60

61

64
65
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91

lodge

1969

Membership

California .......................... 383
Wes tern Star . ................... 239
Tehama ............................. 756
Benicia ---------------------------·- 231
Tuolumne .......................... 293
Corinthian .......................... 428
San Jose -----------···········-- 485
Yount ----·--····················-- 538
Nevada ·-------······--·····------ 202
Temple···-························· 301
402
Eureka
97
La Parfaite Union ..........
Mountain Shade ..............
60
San Joaquin ----··············· 738
Washington ....................... 807
H awaiian ----··················- 362
Occidental ---------------········ 493
Madison -·····-··········· ..······ 333
Mariposa ···-······· .. ············ 186
Georgetown ......................
79
El Dorado ···-·········-·--····· 303
Trinity ···-······-----·············· 165
Golden Gate Speranza.... 610
Gold Hill .......................... 12i
Ophir ................................ 120
San Diego ...................... 1068
Howard -----······················ 27i
Santa Cruz ···············-······· 532
Sacramento ------·----·-········ 760
Martinez-··················........ 389
Los Angeles ····················· 1109
Hiram ..................... ........... 150
M ount Moriah ·········--·-··- 261
Crescent ···-······················· 212
Texas ---------·············-·······
73
Forbestown ···-···········-·-·--· 151
8
...........
1
Illinoistown
..................
Suisun ------··················-· 333
V olcano .................................. 141
Santa Rosa ........................ 627
U nion ----·-----···········--·-·-··· 635
Gravel Range ···-·········--·· 109
Plumas ........ ·-········-·-····· 170
Live Oak ·-······-··············· 768
Natoma --------·····-···········-·- 397
Amador ···-······················· 100
Morning Star .................. 626
Enter~ise ........................ 372
Bear
ountain ...•............
85
Calaveras .......................... 134
H umboldt .......................... 519
lone - - · ··-·-·-··-··········· 103
99
Y olo ······-····························
Vesper ---------·--···---· 212
Naval ······-----·····--···· 1038
94
Rose's Bar --·····-·····North Star · - - - - · · · 102
ooooooH0•0 0 000000000 Ho••• O

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrlb.

1.598.00
8 12.50
3,355.50
804.50
721.00
1,085.50
t.654.35
1.220.35
492.53
1.025.50
1,351.50
200.00
155.00
2.271.00
4.780.51
1.563.00
898.00
201.25
494.50
236.75
1.005.75
271.50
2.037.25
361.00
300.00
3,191.15
700.00
1.077.16
2.906.00
1.232.13
6.135.60
329.00
582.00
489.50
90.00
489.75
336.00
692.31
96i.OO
2.507.25
1.958.31
401.00
636.75
4,44750
t.409.16
256.00
2,281.00
1.240.50
250.00
315.00
1,049.00
376.50
343.76
104.15
i,638.02
375.96
119.00

1.578.50*
188.00·
3,518.25*
1.058.00 *
8 12.00·
1.092.00*
1.860. 10 *
1.750.00 *
559.00*
1,089.50*
1.403.6 1*
205.00*
79.00
2,323.00•
2.961.50*
1.265.00*
1.131.50*
672.40*
406.50*
276.50*
978.25*
378.00*
2,026.15*
255.75*
348.00*
4 ,133.58 *
725.00*
1.151.67*
3,488.00*
1, 167.00*
7,273.03*
447.00*
749.00*
450.50*
95.00
564.70*
246.50*
1,200.41*
994.50*
1.125.55*
1.416.91 *
328.50*
568.50*
2.587.50*
1.764.30*
197.00
1,902.00·
1.155.75*
246.85 *
356.50*
965.00
426.50*
362.76*
210.00
3,382.29*
221.00•
83.50

1969 Participation
Members %

125
94
502
163
147
103
203
283
108
161
167
58
18
287
293
135
124
204
78
49
137
63

299
50
50
i81
200
216
462
309
597
149
74
79
33
90
i4
137
110
140
215
35
103

188
253
15
252
163
37
68
184
81

33
39
66
71
50
24
42
53
53
53
42
60
30
39
36
37
25
61
42
62
i5
38
i9
40
i2
45
73
il
61
79
54
99
28
37
45
60
54
it
78
22
34
32
61
24

6i

45
iO
44
H
51
35
79
64 65
33 14
537 52
46 49
16 16

/Ive.
Gift

4.12
2.04
4.69
4.58
2.77
2.55
3.81
3.25
2.77
3.62
3.49
2. 11
1.32
3.15
3.67
3.49
2.30
2.02
2.1 9
3.50
3 .23
2.29
3.32
2.06
2.90
3.87
2.65
2.16
4.59
3.00
6.56
2.98
2.87
2.13
1.30
3 .74
3.04
3.60
7.05
2.27
2.23
3 .01
3.34
3.37
4.44
1.97
3.04
3.11
2.90
2.66
1.86
4.14
3.66
.87
3.26
2.35
.82

Lod&t

19&9
Mambershlp

93 St. Helena ••••••••••H•••••oa••••• 126
92
95 Henry Clay ···--···············
98 H ornitos ·····-·················-- 106
99 Yosemite - ---------··········-··· 194
99
101 Clay -·-··-························
103 Oroville ............................ 383
104 Lexington .......................... 611
106 Arcata ········----------------······ 323
110 Pajaro ........... ..................... 376
111 Chico -------····· ..····-······-······ 597
82
112 Summit ·····················-·······
429
113 Eden
117 Concord ········--··---------------· 346
120 Fidelity ············------------···· 565
122 Alamo ................................ i 91
123 Sotoyome .......................... 240
124 T able Mountain .............. 365
126 La Fayette -·-············-···· 220
127 Hermann ·······-·-····--·········· 146
128 Visalia ··--··························· 559
129 Nicolaus ··············-····---·-·· 146
131 Woodbridge ···-····----·-·----· 197
89
132 Sincerity ............................
134 V acaville ···-············-······· 313
99
135 Valley ................................
136 Pacific ................................ 467
139 Crockett ----------------···------ 360
140 Curtis .................................... 102
141 Grafton .............................. 100
lH Franklin ················---------··· 132
144 Oriental ·········---···-----········ 269
1i5 Vitruvius -·························· lH
146 Abell -·····-····--········ 346
147 Eel River ·····--·-"·········-····· 266
1i9 Lassen ·····························-· 244
150 Molino ------··················· ------ 146
156 W oodland ····------------········ 316
161 Keystone ............................
49
33
164 Harmon y ••• • ••••••• n•••••••••••••
166 Excelsior ·····-·--·-······--······· 322
167 Alameda ............................ 372
168 Redwood City ·······-········· 660
169 Mission -···--------·······--------- 501
173 E lk Grove ·----·-···--·-··-······ 153
17i Drytown ............................
71
175 Antioch ······-------------········ 372
178 Phoenix ··········------·----------- 713
179 Mendocino -·-·····..············
95
180 Petaluma ······--·-·-············· 324
181 Russian River -················ 124
182 Arbuckle ................................
78
183 Clear Lake ........................ 164
184 Sierra Valley ···············-···
33
185 Claiborne ..........................
76
186 Evening Star ....................
77
187 Keith ·-··- -·····-·-··········· 186
188 Oakland ·--··········-··········· 591
190 N orthern Light ·····--······· 125
191 Marin ----··············---········· 503
192 Santa Barbar a --··········-·· 358
193 Ferndale - ·-····-----··
86
000000 0 0 · - - · -

· · · · · · · H O •• • • • • • • • • •

129

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrlb.

1969 Pa rtlclpatlon
Members %

/Ive.
Gift

398.17
173.00
123.00
1,00l.50
368.16
1,014.50
2,305.54
745.00
900.50
1.906.00
181.00
1,367.12
1.324.00
2,7 15.00
1.353.25
714.00
809.32
460.07
732.57
1.898.38
339.50
659.75
280.00
660.50

439 .00*
529.57•
46 1.00 *
1.369.00*
380.00*
1.351.00•
2,160.97*
800.00*
949.00*
1,733.00*
240.00*
1.41 0.28 *
2,371.50*
2.809.00*
699.00
507.25*
870.75*
241.50
506.50*
1.295.53*
417.00*
600.00*
293.70*
881.00*
157.00
1.076.50*
1,199.50 *
201.50
147.00
611.34*
914.00*
387.50*
566.00
832.50*
343.70
349.00*
849.50*
45.00
40.00
1.823.00*
1.262.33*
2.300.00*
1.138.00*
506.50*
302.50•
979.00*
1.748.70*
143.00
832.05*
il5.00*
27.00
62 .00
55.00
66.00
311.00*
288.50
t.564.50*
267.75*
2.289.25*
1.103.00*
284.00*

7 1 56
55 60
46 43
169 31
58 59
332 87
214 35
114 35
148 39
411 69
48 59
175 41
190 55
325 58
114 23
106 44
232 64
38 17
75 51
197 35
78 53
110 56
49 55
149 48
12 12
105 22
161 i5
27 26
27 27
78 59
91 34
66 46
93 27
HI 53
67 27
7i 51
133 42
5 10
14 42
186 58
114 31
302 i 6
168 31
63 41
32 13
215 58
242 34
27 28
153 47
71 57
i
5
17 JO
7 21
5
7
50 65
47 25
164 28
i2 34
280 56
235 66
58

3.48
5.76
1.35
2.77
3.81
3.53
3.5-t
2.48
2.52
2.90
2.93
3.29
6.85
i .97
1.42
2.11
2.39
1.10
3.47
2.32
2.86
3.05
3.30
2.8 1
1.59
2.31
3.33
1.98
1.i 7
4.63
3.40
2.69
1.64
3.13
I.it
3.01
2.69
.92
1.21
5.66
3.39
3.48
2.27
3.31
4 .09
2.63
2.45
1.51
257
3.35
.35
.38
1.67
.87
4.04
1.55
2.65
2.14
4.55
3.92
3.30

75i.OO
1,448.10
388.82
125.00
48 1.50
1,371.95
546.00
870.50
790.00
176.00
398.00
698.90
25.00
64 .00
1.813.50
1.044.83
2.i22.50
1,199.50
398.00
136.44
773.50
2,023.46
114.25
865.15
H2.50
209.00
58.00
215.50
185.50
155.50
3,035.00
280.00
2,839.97
845.25
260.00

so

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

130
Lodge

1969
Membership

194 Mountain View .............. 400
195 Buckeye ········-·--------······· 132
196 San Simeon ...................... 101
198 Wilmington ...................... 615
199 H artley -·-···--···--····-···-·- 250
200 Truckee ............................ 143
201 Silveyville ........................ 142
202 Pentalpha .......................... 352
203 Confidence ........................ 127
204 S alinas .............................. 574
205 Olivet ..............-................ 143
206 Stanislaus .......................... 636
207 Anaheim ···-·-----------·........ 538
208 Rio Vista .......................... 165
209 King David's ..._.............. 400
210 Friendship ···------------··------ 675
211 San Benito ......._.............. 164
212 South San Francisco ...... 209
214 San Buenaventura .......... 440
215 O ak Grove ...................... 483
21 6 Doric ............................... . 335
217 Monterey ........................ 277
218 Mosaic ·-·--···------·-··-·---- 307
220 Downey ···--·--------··--·····- 783
221 Inyo ............................... ... 144
222 Roseville ............................ 519
224 Bakersfield --·-------··-·······--- 700
225 Brooklyn ---··-·····..--··- 370
226 San M ateo ...................... 560
228 Athens .............................. 200
229 Solano .............................. 471
230 North Butte .................... 315
64
231 Cove lo .........................232 Janesville ..............---··-- 137
233 Calistoga -------···----··--- 105
99
234 Hope ..................................
235 Surprise Valley ........- ·---- 100
236 Hills F erry ........................ 166
237 Guadalupe .....-------·····-- 272
210 Colusa -------- --····------···----· 155
241 Santa Ana ........................ 578
212 Magnolia ---····---------··------ 547
243 Eucalyptus ___................... 559
211 Alcatraz ···----------------·---- 430
245 Laurel --------------·-··---- · 232
246 Pomona ------------·-····--·· 427
217 Fresno ·---··--------------··-· 625
248 Alturas ··-··--··----····-----··-· 171
250 Adin ···-··--·-----··----·- ·· 92
253 Landmark--- ·--· · - -- 101
251 Reading ----··-·····348
255 Welcome ---·-·---··-------- 190
256 Lodi ·······------····-----······· 387
258 Penrhyn -·----·---------···---- 141
259 E vergreen ...-................... 712
260 King Solomon's Seaport.. 497
261 Tuscan ..- -..-·..- --- 79
262 Lompoc ··---------·-- 367
264 Hesperian ---------· 448
265 Orland - -·----·---- - 167

'2fil Galt

&9

1969 P1rticlpatlon

Ave.

1968
Cont rib.

1969
Contrib.

2.122.00
536.50
308.00
2,499.28
125.00
816.50
433.85
2,005.00
535.50
2.353.50
330 .00
1.536.60
1.695.98
500.50
1.367.72
1.850.25
521.55
722.50
1.572.35
2,308.50
1,108.75
975.45
669.50
2.259.08
426.50
2,151.00
2,177.40
1.035.50
1.930.97
555.25
1,038.65
627.00
61.00
428.00
220.00
324.13
70.00
339.00
1,104.05
223.50
2,264.90
2,937.50
1.874.50
819.25
443.50
1.726.82
1,361.78
348.00
569.00
206.00
1.52150
394.08
818.00
233.50
2,725.57
1.217.68
59.00
1,223.00
2,322.41
617.50

1.591.75*
412.00•
333.50*
3,00 3.20*
286.00
604.00*
453.60*
2.210.00·
566.00*
2.382.57*
237.00
1.891.00*
1.684.73*
431.00*
l.344.16*
1.729.00*
398.50*
815.75*
1.506.24*
2.071.00*
1.018.50 *
890.00*
734.00*
3.128.42*
488.00*
2.235.02*
2,290.66*
1.128.00*
2.236.97*
605.00 *
1.0 33.00 *
835.oo•
12.00
389.50*
221.00 •
319.00*

220 55
99 75
47 47
290 47
53 21
59 41
76 51
173 19
87 69
345 60
51 36
232 36
200 37
91 57
196 19
200 30
61 37
99 47
170 39
252 52
96 29
138 50
125 41
215 27
70 49
267 51
267 38
145 39
206 37
92 46
130 28
229 73

499.00*
829.50*
185.50
2.295.20*
3.214.00*
2,112.30*
975.00*
761.50*
1,947.31*
1,316. 11*
344.00*

88 53
114 42
25 16
236 41
177 87
260 47
133 31
102 44
285 67
154 25
172 100

3.01
3.05
1.20
3.97
5 .88
3.78
2.27
3.28
4.56

824.00*
375.50
t.062.00•
236.00
2 .659.07*
1.250.00*
82.00
1.045.80*
2,426.01*
597.50*

2.37
1.98
2.71
l.67
3.73
2.52
l.04
2.85
5.12

311.70

357.50*

104
65
126
45
278
201
15
154
241
105
55

Members %

4

6

73 53
49 47
79 80

30
34
32

32
39
40
19
42

Si
63
62

Gilt

No.

3.98
3.12
3.30
4.88
1.14
-4 .22
3.19
6.28
-4.46
4.15
1.66
2.97
3.13
2.61
3.36
2.56
2.43
3.90
3.42
1.29
3.04
3.21
2.39
4.38
3.39
4.31
3.27
3.05
3.99
3.03
2 .19
2.65
.19
2 .84
2.1 0
3.22

268
269
271
272
273
271
275
277
278
279
280
281
282
283
285
286
287
288
289

2.11
2.01

3.58
4.02

1969

Lode•

Membership

----....... 304
sg~~~n~r;~~-------·
h .................... 281

p nod Mountain ................
-43
A~dio~n~ ........... ·- -------···· 459
Ar
............................. 528

------······------·--·--···

210
o:~Jal
Selma . ~----..--··--·---····· 220

Sou them "c~·iii~;~i~------·-·
H anfor
···-----

519

----=::

332
236
58
117
521
40 1
464
406
132
117

RedtaXd~.............................

113

Maver ....................

297
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306
307
308
309
310
312
313

~o

,

~~:~ads~;;~~:::::::=::::::::::: Ii~
?Sout11at7wi ____::::::::::::::: 66
est ....................

an Miguel ................ ··
Paso Robles
......
Winnedumah ···-----------·--··
Maxwell
..................
Elsinore ----··············--··
East Gat------·-····------···--290 S
p e ........................
291 ~~tGat~~la ·······-·--·--··---·
292 o
G --···---·-----·····--293 T range rove ......·-··--··
294
295 Sih,~td!~kson

296

1
3

Bb~::n uir e =:::::::::::::::::::::: 1~ fi

:::=::::::--···--- 548710
159
::::::=::::::::::::: I~~
~bt3 -···---·······-----···-----·-·· 316
311

O ntario ..
Santa Lucia
Porterville ·····-----------······
Reedley ....

s:n~r M-o~i;~·--··-·--·······----

Monrovia

-·-··-------···· 346

~r~:~;:~~~~~~~ :H

Te achapi ..........._.......... 174
31-4 N~~~lkl _···--·····------·--·--· 295
315 s
........................_ 383
316
~Jli~~o
oo
317 Emanuer ........................ 179
318 H ollenbeck··--··-··..............
.
319 So h G
..................-... 571
320 Al~~! ate ···--·--·------····--·
321 Alhamb;~..--........................ 384
223
322
323
....
324
-- .........- ...- 113
325 Consuelo
Needl
..................._ __ 479
326
313
327 Lo ng Bea~h..::-····- -------···· 607
---···------···- 796
328 Redondo
329 Vallee De
118
330 Kilauea
187
Pacific
G~;;~--··-··----·331 s
--··-- 300
332
- · -· · - - - 586
333 .Ai:1a Pedro
---····

F

.............................. 3

~~~~~r :::::::=::::::::::: ~~~
-p;;;~~··===

110

131

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrlb.

1969 Partlclpotton
Member$ %

660.50
506.25
92.00
2.260.99
2,442.86
-478.97
648.50
149.50
2.853.07
455.50
446.14
262.00
17.00
1,491.00
162.50
919.00
1,073.87
124.00
255.28
3 ,460.47
896.37
l.267.50
1,581.95
227.80
373.50
3,357.49
686.25
1.416.60
2,495.02
l.601.02
664.50
3.295.75
323.00
l.377.58
I.304 .84
3,655.89
299.07
506.65
196.00
260.50
585.00
971.00
953.42
432.75
2 19.65
252.00
2,785. 17
1.968.30
591.00
2.077.37
1.531.54
1,728.33
1.599.40
1,035.95
5.139.76
2,987.26
596.21
722.00
791.67
1,245.22
377.00

967.50*
451.03
63.00
2.355.00*
2,658.94*
591.56*
847.00*
413.00*'
2,683.12*
364.50
577.53*
618.00*'
8.00
1.381.00*

72
67

24
24
26
55
48
38
51
35
50
26
33
58

Ave.
Gift

228 42

3. 18
1.59
l.47
5.13
5.04
2.82
3.85
2.23
7.89
1.69
2.20
3.30
.12
2.52

1.088.75*
1,3 16.82*
120.22•
275.00*
3,951.24*
853.64*
1.15-4.00*'
I.976.75*'
289.50*
336.00*
3,142.16*
639.00*
1,243.00*
2,355.03*'
1,838.66*
702.00·
819.00
241.00
1,449.39*
1.1 87.61*
3,241.59 *
371.00
457.15*'
206.00*
456.00*
514.00*
l.068. 17*
1.21 7.02*
399.50
494.H*

195
220
30
16
272
109
210
258
11
59
395
109
169
243
218

3.28
5.58
2.07
2.35
7.58
2. 13
2.49
4.87
2.19
2.87
2.78
3 .01
3.01
1.84
3.61

2.825.84*
1,727.96*'
656.00 *
2,765.58*'
1.622.09*
1,663.83*
864.45
920.50*
5,065.01*
2,507.00*
630.00*
7 18.00*
641.97*'
735.74
250.00

199
180
137
393
130
231
71
185
1 12
272
78
128
89

11
251
253
80
112
69
171
57
87
108

1

64

103
33
150
161
192
51

66

43
97
116
146
75
69
62

6

59
93
52
39
52
27
45

64

31
50
35
51
41
50
43
40
20
23
47
52
55
19
29
45
52
67
49
20
23
35
35
47
61
67
21
56
15
59
68
34
66
68
30
15

86
Si 39

1.12
l.62
l.67
4.59
3.82
9.37
1.4 1
2.02
2.15
2.15
2.95
3 .62
3 .18

1.33

2.76
1 .95
4.50
2.94
4.73
2.59
1.03
1.80
2.94
8.34
3.15

5.31
3.81

2.15

1.26

1.79

132

1969

1968

Contrib.
Membership
Loda•
2,419.98
334 Covina -----·····------------······· 568
3,991.26
335 W est Gate ---------------·---- 1093
2,800.00
336 Fruitvale -·-····-···········.. ····· 677
516.00
337 Carqulnez ......................... 163
316.72
338 San Jacinto ----------------·---·· 117
1,262.95
339 Fullerton ------------···•••-.•··-· 425
1.06H6
3il Oxna rd ............................ i19
2.61i.90
3i3 San Fernando _____________ .. ___ 720
1.S60.00
344 Starr King ---------···········-··· S06
437.82
3iS Brentwood ...................... 171
2.584.52
346 Palo Alto ------·-··---------- 726
l,HS.15
347 McKinley -··-··················- 434
2.421.79
348 San Bernardino • • ••••••••• ou 1007
2,592.49
807
319 Sequoia
1.380.61
351 Palestine ····------········---····· 3S6
1.133.57
3S2 Sunset ·····--·----············--····· 268
615.17
353 Pinole ··--·----------··············· 206
%4.00
329
351 Presidio
5 ,794.77
355 Hollywood -----------·--····· 1084
1.554.50
356 MUI Valley --·--··········--·-· ill
1.844.20
357 Buena Park ·--····-···--······ Sl3
1.912.iO
358 Golden State --·-----------·----- i62
72
359 Loyalton ..........................
1.0S8.00
360 San Francisco-Victory .... 374
258.00
361 Port Bragg ---------------····· lH
867.00
362 Charity ---------------··-·---- 2Si
J,152.85
363 Berkeley ---------·-·······-······ 69S
457.00
36S W illit.s ········--·------············ 1S2
3,100.20
366 Las Palma s ...................... 1072
492
1.977.68
367 South Pasadena
1.507.20
368 Unity ..................:::::::::::::: i74
1.775.48
369 Ocean Pa rk ...................... 439
1.523.98
370 Amity-Seal Rock ............ i7S
2,080.00
371 le Progres de !'Oceanic .... 674
2,671.99
372 Gardena ···-·---------------·······- 585
2,4S2.43
373 W est Los Angeles ........ i59
584.50
37i Jewel ................................ 187
1.267.78
375 Richmond .......................... 352
l.813.S5
376 Francis Drake -----·-·········-- HI
1.131.06
377 Artesia ·········-----~-·--·······--· 257
2.776.46
378 Mizpah -·-···-······-·····--··· 286
220
923.00
379 Fillmore
1.445.47
380 Huntlngt;~·s;~-~h"-:::::::::::: 425
1,854.98
381 Oceanside ·----······-······-·-- S33
1.624.35
382 Highland Park -----------·--·- i71
i97.50
383 Oros!................................... 136
38i El Centro ·······-··············· 478
90S.90
2S5
S40.50
385 Dinuba
1,2i9.57
387 Coalinga :·.~::::::~-.~::_:::·.:·~·.:: 326
1.296.00
388 Parnassus ············-··········· S79
2.698.22
389 Palos Verdes ----------····-·-- 660
571.26
390 Imperial ........................... ......... 123
391 East Belt ·------·--·········-····· 121
i06.50
2 ,487.54
392 West Lake . ......................... ....... SS6
2,487.50
393 Balder ··---------··············· i3S
39i University ·-----···-·---··-··· 396
2.239.72
l.280.7S
39S Turlock ·-·-·- ··--·--·-·- il9
1.37S.86
396 Apollo ··- ··------·······- · ········ 389
4,290.34
397 Rising Light ----------·--···-···· 8i2
1,166.00
399 Fratemlty -------·-··-··-··· 388
567
1,723.00
100 Burll.ogame
..
No.

•••u••••••o••••••• OOOOHO••

•·O H.0 00-0~.0 00000000o000 0 0 0 0

---- --

133

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
1969
Contrlb.

1969 Participation
Members %

Awe.
Gilt

2.570.61*
6,341.99*
2.719.26"
623.50*
378.99*
1.636.77"
1.119.21*
2.857.00*
2.060.00*
469.0l "
2.749.00*
1.278.50"
2.909.79*
2.813.i9"
1.316.38"
1.134.63*
552.29*
876.00*
S,923.37*
l.58i.18*
2.127.78"
2,246.97*
62.50
1,125.00*
172.00
848.00"
1,742.00*
308.50*
2.752.65*
2.473.00*
1.758.52"
1.380.22*
l.555.49*
2.09s.oo·
2,862.74*
2,778.51 *
567.50*
1.IOi.80"
1.901.57*
1,297.0i'
3.ooo.oo•
1.132.30*
1.284.43*
1.783.05 "
1.896.65*
557.00'
1.113.95"
631.00*
90S.43"
1.306.50*
3,272.10"
SOl.46*
i06.50*
2.518.SS*
1.472.00"
1.893.62*
1.178.75*
1,296.00"
3.596.75*
1,325.50*
1.371.05*

268 47
502 16
373 SS
99 61
53 4S
143 31
95 23
382 S3
333 66
94 SS
428 S9
lSO 35
322 32
333 41
194 54
162 60
83 40
llS 3S
S71 53
183 4S
25S so
236 51
7 10
130 3S
23 16
132 52
206 30
38 25
iOO 37
272 5S
263 SS
128 29
187 39
259 38
279 48
237 52
83 H
116 41
235 53
lH 56
16S S8
li8 67
172 40
299 S6
222 47
90 66
116 24
93 36
9S 29
201 35
300 45
73 59
67 55
376 68
207 48
HO 35
18S 44
197 51
361 i3
133 31
13-+ 24

1.53
5.80
4.02
3.83
3.24
3.8S
2.67
3.97
4.07
2.7i
3.79
2.9S
2.89
H9
3.70
i.23
2.68
2.66
5.46
3.8S
i.lS
4.86
.87
3.01
1.19
3.3i
2.51
2.03
2.57
5.03
3.71
3.14
3.27
3.11
4 .89
6.05
3.03
3.14
4.31
S.05
l0.i9
S.15
3.02
3.3S
4.03
4.10
2.33
2.47
2.78
2.26
4.96
i.08
3.36
i.53
3.38
i.78
2.81
3.33
i .27

3A2
2.i2

Ho.

1969
Membership

Loor•

401 Bay View -···-------------·------ 590
102 Brawley ·····---··•h••············· 227
103 Yerba Buena ·------------·-··- 787
101 Glendora -----------···---····.. ··· 214
10S M on eta ·······-···-----------·---- 421
106 Burbank ·····-----------------······ 873
i07 La Mesa ···········-·····---· ····· 598
108 Sierra Madre ······------------ 180
409 Honolulu ·--·------··-·---------··· i02
411 Perris -----·-··········----········· 197
i12 Calexico ··--·-·-·-····-·--------- 123
411 Arlington .......................... 211
i15 Silver Trowel ................ 391
416 Lindsay ••••• ••-••••u•••••••••• o• o 187
417 Clovis ········------------·-········ S86
418 Elysian ................................ 346
283
419 Upland
420 Kerman --·······-·-···········-·-··· 1SS
121 Inglewood ..................... -. 69 1
i22 Eagle Rock ···-···--------·---- 442
423 York ·------··--·----------·-··-····· 27S
228
i24 Exeter
42S Holtville ··············-------···-- 152
380
426
Va
248
427
i28 San Dimas ---·····-·------.. -- 199
429 . Pittsburg -··----··-----------··· 321
98
HO McCloud ...............................
131 Alpha ..........................____________ iS8
i33 Hammonton ···---------·--··-···· 120
13i Maricopa ·----···················· IS9
135 Fairmount ············--------·--- 327
i36 Claremont ···--------·····----·-·· 21 4
137 Lancaster -······-·y·............. S63
139 T yrian ---······-·--···············- 2H
HO Standard ····---------------------· 312
Ht Coronado ·-·--······--··--· ........ 341
142 Blackmer ---···-···--------·-···· 970
H3 Schofie ld ......-----------------··· 3S2
iH Carpinteria ........................... 1S3
HS Wilshire ...................__________ 399
446 La Puente ·---------------------·- 280
H7 Torrance ···············-·-········ 637
448 Mount Oiablo ······---··---··· 501
149 Park ········--····---·--------········· 347
i50 Van Nuhs ........................ I 17S
451 Montebe lo ........................ 667
iS2 San Pasqual ···-··--..·----···--- i 99
i5i Crocker ............................. 170
155 Golden W est ------·········-·-·· 458
457 Ramona ....................------········ 49S
i58 Henry S. Orme ···---------···· i90
i59 Riverbank ···----------·········-· 142
i60 Mount Oso ........................ 327
161 Argonaut-Argonne ........... S69
520
162 Paul Revere
147
i63
367
46-t
165 Center ··········--·----··········-· 466
166 Libertas ................................. 686
167 Culver City ······--·--------··· 12S
• • • U O O O O O O O O H O Oo o o o o o o o o o o o o

. . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . u

............ . .

~i:~a ii~·y··:::::::·:.:::::::::

-·····-···~- -- --· ·

~~~~~st~~;~~;·v·;;~~~

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrib.

1969 Participation
Members %

1.551.50
914.5S
1,926.75
477.03
1.823.01
3,627.26
2,6H1S
S58.77
1.763.00
523.50
633.05
879.28
1.341.0S
333.00
2,227.27
1.733.09
1.036.98
378.00
2,384.19
t ,93i.01
735.49
68i.OO
S50.00
992.96
330.67
1,293.47
646.50
263.50
1,S64.12
341 .80
292.50
1.249.02
755.00
2,298.50
100.00
729.50
1.472.36
2.933.64
1.350.00
503.00
2.2S2.1 9
1.219.69
2,209.09
2.263.25
1.236.00
6,069.52
3,333.86
2.247.06
l,225.50
2.769.00
2.3S6.86
l.79S.il
284.00
693.50
615.80
8.306.90
50.00
l.24S.50
999.30
1.111.19
1,981.l l

1.530.66.
1.029.61 *
2,101.50*
732.76*
t,660.02*
3,848.37"
2,303.30*
687.56*
l,942.50"
684.50*
640.56*
864.11"
1,06 1.02*
373.50*
1.955.03*
1.S07.80*
1,009.28*
40i.50 "
2,520.16*
2,338.87*
860.86*
820.00"
60i.99*
839.80*
H-4.70
1.085.43*
674.50*
338.2S*
1.464.0S*
183.53
234.12
1,6 14.53'
674.05*
2.515.63*
109.00
1.000.00*
1.509.91 *
1.517.38
738.50*
i95.50*
2,3Qi.66•
1.283.56*
3,103.72*
2.093.00*
1,229.30 *
6,376.91'
3,340.87"
2.270.20*
1.428.00*
2,492.00"
2.i 87.46*
2,825.H*
286.00*
826.00*
1.559.50*
2.213.50*
118.16
2,234.50*
879.50
1,161.65
2,382.08*

258
H3
157
49
200
503
275
66
194
91
SI
10i
91
54
252
154
162
94
233
253
128
89
74
140
64
130

44
63
20
23
48
58
46
37
i8
46
41
i9
23
29
43
i5
57
61
34
57
47
39
49
37
26
65
lli 36
6S 66
179 39
34 28
36 23
131 11
86 40
366 65
20 8
97 31
166 i9
235 24
107 30
71 46
161 40
139 so
274 43
19S 39
2i7 71
660 56
333 so
22i 4S
217 46
187 41
310 63
179 37
54 38
130 10
20i 36
213 47
28 19
154 i2
161 3S
169 2S
211 50

Awe.

Cllt

2.59
4.54
2.67
3.12
3 .91
1.41
3.85
3 .82
4.83
3.17
5.21

i .10

2.71
2.00
3.34
1 .36
3.57
2.61
3.65
S.29
3.13
3 .60
3.98
2.21
1.79
5.45
2.10
HS
3.20
1.53
J.i7
1.94
3.15
H7
.i5
3.21
1.43
1.56
2.10
3.24
5.78
1.58
4.87
1.18
3.5i
5.43
S.01
i.SS
3.01
5.44
5.03
S.77
2.01
2.53
2.74
1.26
.80
6.09
1.89
1.69
5.60

134

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.

1969
Membership

468
469
170
171
472
173
175
176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
181
485
486
187
188
189
i90
191
192
493
i91
195
197
198
i 99
500
501
502
503
501
505
506
507
508

Lodp

Rockrid~e ........................

Yorba inda ....................
Lincoln ...........- .................
Delta ···-······----·······..·······
Lodge Maul ..............................
Blythe _........... -.................
America ····-···········-····--···-···
Coachella __..............._
Temblor ............................
Thousand Oaks __,...........
Golden Rule •H••················
Fellowship ........................
Mt. Davidson ··················
Clarence F. Smith ............
Bell
Albert Pike ......................
Chowchilla .........................
Caledonia ..........................
Vallejo ------············--·----Patterson -----------·--·----East Bay _ .......................
Corcoran ···············----------Woodstock ··-----·-············
Garvanza ..._.....................
Atascadero ---------·-----------Acom .................................
Lebanon ............................
Fremont
Stockton ............................
Capital City ......................
Roosevelt ..........................
Westwood --...................
Harbor ....................................-...
Point .......- ................_.....
Seaside ..............................
Silver Cord ····-·---..........
Mount Olive ....................
El Segundo ......................

350
181
347
163
175
198
351
290
119

557

708
267
328
263
733
194
176
553
367
177
295
126
380
259
117
562
345
165
185
594
177
218
'187
312
490
599
829
470
95
509
253
510 Cupertino .......................... 257
511 Sunnyvale .................................. H6
512 Palms
111
513
496
511
515 Vermont Square -------·- 356
516 Taft ---··----·----............... 271
517 Mount Vernon ................
51 8 La olla. ...- ....................... 333
519 Euc 'd ...- ........................... 315
520 Ionic ··-···········-······-········· 1310
521 Orinda ---·-·············· 171
522 Belvedere-Sunrise .......- .. 393
523 BellBower ...........- .........._ 615
521 Catalina Island --------- 119
525 Geor~e W ashington ..._
317
526 Bay ity - - ---------·---· 387
527 Covenant ------------·--·-·-· 218
528 Beverly Hills -·------- 181
529 Loyalty ---·-··-····-··· 76-i
530 Sun Garden ·---··--- 502
· · · · · · • • •o 0 0

0 H 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 o o o OO o o o o • O O

· • - ooou o• ooo o ooeoooooooo• o

h°tn'J!m~·p;~~-ii~·::::::::::::

~~~~:~a---~~::::::::::::::::::::

h

135

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1969 P1rticl111tlon
Members %

Aft,

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrib.

863.00
579.93
964.50
1.471.47
516.00
551.50
1.858.53
994.88
150.00
1.105.16
2,172.50
l.022.50
2,101.75
917.91
3.853.84
1.324.33
337.00
2,211.99
1.020.3-t
306.50
800.00
172.50
799.00
1.232.42
303.50
1.360.00
653.50
1,396.00
405.00
1.871.13
197.50
690.00
1.330.00
1,267.25
1.701.25
2.397.35
3,712.71
l.140.93
197.00
758.90
353.00
603.00
1,518.01
3,068.56
193.00
1.308.87
590. 18
409.50
406. 19
886.42
4.430.17
1,628.50
1,232.00
2,577.93
132.30
1.088.00
727.00
953.75
1.813.91
1.189.00
1,037.91

782.50*
659.50*
1.437.00*
I.399.51 *
145.00*
550.28 *
2.121.65*
1.100.71 *
155.oo·
1.300.52*
2.503.50*
1.030.00*
2,317.13*
738.96*
4,393.08*
845.61 *
297.53
2,214.80*
806.17*
274.50
l.019.50*
131.00
892.20*
1,38 1.40*
355.41 *
1,6 12.50*
652.00
1.291.50*
337.00
l.992.00*
538.50*
66750*
1.291.00*
995.25"
2.160.61*
2,162. 72*
1.569.91 *
1.281.6'1*
130.00
648.53*
1.083.00*
913.25*
1.537.43*
2.964.16*

116
82
177
155
92
67
189
127
51
175
371
121
220
97
457
87
54
340
125
11
100
38
147
138
57
192
123
201
43
329
66
121
126
158
218
213
500
198
28
67
88
130
218
H5

1,377.79*
701.03*

H3 10
103 38

3.87
2.59

552.H
1,141.21 *
3,111.SO•
1,79750*
2.323.20*
2,612.74*
156.93*
1,135.20*
583.00
801.55*
l.856.32*
1.905.11 *
1.011.79*

55
122
430
250
243
178
95
170
91
75
221
188
105

17
39
33
53
62
29
80
19

1.66
3.62
2.61
3.79
5.91
1.25
3.81
3.27
1.51
3.69
3.86
6.12
2.08

33
45
51

33
53
31
51
H
15
31
52
15
67
37
62
45
31
61
3i
23
31
30
39
53
39
34
36
43
23
55
37
56
26
16
H
36
60
i2
29
26
31
29
53
90

21

31
16
64
21

Gift

2.24
3.58
4.H
3.02
2.51
2.78
6.01
3.80
3.82
2.33
3.51
3.86
7.06
2.81
5.99
4.36
l.69
4.0 1
2.20
1.55
3.16
l.01
2.35
5.33
2.42
2.87
1.89
2.78
1.82
3.35
3.01
3.06
2.65
2.91
HI
3.61
5.51
2.73
1.37
2.56
1.21
2.11
3.71
5.9~

1969
M•mt..rshlp

....
531 Alnandria - ·-···--·-------····· 165
lodp

532
533
531
535
537
538
539
510
511
512
513
5H
515
516
517
518
519
551
552
551
555
556
557
558
559

Smyrna ·······-···-------------··
Azure ................................
Forest Hill ........................
Alexander Hamilton ........
Utopia ···-··---·----··············
Ascot -·-··----------------·-······
Belvedere ..........................
Queen Beach ....................
H enry Morse Stephens ....
North Hollywood ...- .......

225
421
180
249
487
298

185
258
951
507
749
V eritas-Jonathan .............. 283
Sa n Gabriel ...................... 561
Arcadia •••••••u• ••• • ••••••• ••••••• 560
Triangle ····-----------·----·-···· 327
353
242
Semper Virens __............. 3 19
Educator --------·········· 351
White Pine ...................... 97
Fairfax ···--------------······ 190
H ermosa_..................... 115
Point Firmin .................... 300
Craftsmen ·----------------------- 297
560 Plymouth ................... _..... 315
561 East San Diego .............. 894
562 Pyramid ............................ 280
563 South Park ..........................353
56-t Foothill ···········-·········-····· 919
565 W est Adams .................... 282
566 James A. Garfield ............ 216
567 Searchlight ..........._ ....... 380
568 Park Boulevard· .............. 366
569 Chateau Thierry .............. 309
570 Military Service .............. 269
571 Francis K. Shattuck.......... 195
572 James Madison ................ 284
571 S. W. Hackett ................ 570
575 F ort Crook ....................... 222
576 El Cajon Valley .............. 621
577 Sunnyside ................. .-............... 348
578 Progressive ...................... HO
579 W arrcn G. Harding ........ 652
580 Santa Maria ----·----------- 141
581 Security --·-·-··--............. 386
582 Rialto ___....................... 335
583 Wasco ·-·--·--··········-------·· 311
581 H arding ····---·--···--········· 293
585 Manchester ............ . . ._............. 277
586 Garden Grove .................. 50 1
587 Valley Forge .................. 391
588 El Sereno _ ................... 380
589 Kauai ......-........... ............- .. ..... 110
590 Compass ......--------·······-- 310
591 E scalon ----·---·······-·· 160
______
592 Tujunga .......
________ ________ 355
533
593 All States
591 Service ......._..................... 865
595 Alexander Graham BelL 243

~~~~lai~----~::::::::::::::::::::::::

t:~e~h~·~;--~:::::::::::::::::::::::

-

_.

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrib.

1969 Partld111t1on
Members %

381.00
5 18.00
1.647.40
435.00
975.85
1.908.83
I.26 1.25
838.42
821.86

185.95*
463.6 1*
2.055.36*
126.50*
891.51*
2.185.66*
1.515.33*

80
66
200
78
97
181
115

18
29
48
13
39
38
39

2.95
2.06
4.88
2.37
3.59
1.49
5.09

1,330.33*
815.00*
1 .871.81 *
2.808.14*
3,099.69 *
921.00*
3.30 1.76*
1.854.33*
2,076.36*
l.151.50*
590.00*
969.50*
l.061.00*
120.00
1.191.17*
l.2H.03*
1.176.52*
1.251.45.
7-18.36*
2.257.00*
507.00
l.395.27*
2,563.50*
936.11 *
2,116.98*
1.288.11*
1,201.50*
665.50*
1.090.00*
734.03·
1.010.00*
2.288.74*
307.00
2.H8.6 t•
1.110.97*
2,117.81*
2.1s1.10·
811.05*
879.23·
l.11 5.93*
911.05"
l.244 .96*
1.39'1.07*
2.253.72*
1.597.97*
I.216.15*
176.00*
1.50 7.23*
215.00
1.566.60*
2.'118.68"
1.366.29*
1,622.20"

97 52
92 36
610 67
307 61
438 58
116 41
380 67
112 25
274 84
132 37
71 29
172 51
195 56
15 16
15i 31
125 30
115 38
139 17
99 29
109 16
57 20
119 12
525 55
89 32
HS 67
H O 37
158 43
101 31
160 59
lH 71
94 33
219 H
71 33
301 18
153 H
277 63
371 57
97 69
H2 37
126 38
162 52
139 47
120 43
302 60
191 18
HS 38
53 18
229 67
51 32
208 59
288 51
702 81
131 51

7.19
3.16
5.11
5.51
1.11
3.27
5.85
3.31
6.35
3.27
2.H
3.01
3.02
1.21
2.13
3.00
3.92
1.21
2.17
2.52
1.8 1
3.95
2.70

68350

5.686.92
2.560.90
2.653.02
898.00
2.·'115.71
2.321.73
1.7 17.50
1,230.88
718.50
1.015.50
822.50
194.00
1.228.25
957.69
1.2 17.37
1,172.22
908.00
2,138.50
788.50
1.533.65
2,1 10.50
1.167.78
1.775.91
912.67
1.152.00
686.00
9 18.00
720.00
1.1 67.96
2,292.06
681.00
2,274.91
1.327.81
2,268.61
2.014.SO
793.86
1.081.98
907.05
854.21
100.93
1.067.63
1,963.36
1.621.86
l,H9.67
503.50
1,308.60
269.50
1,478.07
2.563.60
1. 112.46
1,97051

Aft.

Gift

3.32

9.80
3.39
3.29
2. 15
4.05
3.76
3.56
4.02
1.38
3.91
1.11
5.50
3.30
5.96
2.28
3.33
3.01
1 .25
5.03
4.50
1.06
3.20
1.33
1.13
1.31
HI
i .51
5.05
6.68

136
No.

596
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
607
608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619
620
621
622
623
624
625
626
627
628
629
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
637
638
639
641
642
643
644
645
616
647
648
649
650
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658

Lodge

1969
Membership

Guardian .......................... 919
Pearl Harbor .................... 607
C armelita ........................ 327
Lynwood ........................ 557
Grizzly -----··················-···-·· 115
Melrose ............................ 256
Dimond ··-·············-··-······· 232
Jubilee ······--··-·················· 429
Glassell Park .................... 382
Sojourner ---··················----· 300
Granada -·-··················-·----- 698
Provident .......................... 496
Elmhurst ............................ 247
C anoga ............................ 482
T emple City ·······-··········· 495
Three Pillars .................... 439
Larchmont ........................ 336
Hemet ................................ 358
R. E. Dolley .................... 235
Big Bear............................ 176
Southland ···-··················· 353
Neptune ---···········--··········· 301
Point Loma ...................... 675
The Gardens .................... 493
Atwater -----···········----········ 345
M enorah ···-···········-··········· 1249
Fortitude --························ 211
Anq eles Mesa .................. 618
Chula Vista .................... 734
Lamanda Park .................. 296
Truth ................................ 260
Fairview .......................... 268
Ingleside ·····-··················· 183
Benevolence .................... 240
Normal Heights .............. 820
Poinsettia ·······-···············-· 739
Victorville ···-·-················· 319
Riverside .......................... 642
John M arshall .................. 286
Palisades .......................... 395
Indian Rock ....................
Composite ........................ 755
James A. Foshay ............ 194
La Cumbre ........................ 308
Alta Loma ........................ 356
Lomita ··--···········-·······--·· 376
A.F.E. Irwin ·----------········ 247
Metro politan ·---················ 174
Hawthorne ...................... 552
Damascus ........................ 732
F lorence ----·-···-- ······-······· 361
La Brea ............................ 237
Menlo Park ...................... 336
Crescenta Valley ............ 625
Fontana ···-······-·--··········· 369
Jordan ···-···-··············-····· 374
Monte V ista ··········--·------- 819
Citro! ................................ 262
John D. Sprecke!s -···-·---- 633
Livingston ···- ---··------·--··· 193
659 La Habra - --------- ·------ 330

1969 Particlpatlon

1968

1969
Contrib.

5,315.20
2,627.16
1.731.94
2.853.82
308.00
935.09
791.00
1,569.32
1,326.38
941.48
2,479.50
1,674.50
400.00
2,098.45
2,499.23
1,421.50
1,099.95
1.428.50
841.81
592.75
1.481.43
1.226.20
1.465.00
1.935.51
1.790.59
6,811.88
205.00
2,135.23
2,531.07
1,032.28
830.36
I, 155.76
753.50
947.61
2,566.52
1,938.26
889.50
2,761.40
1,289.51
2,178.84
248.50
2,691.95
832.12
1,680.91
1.185.12
1,262.93
1,269.96
638.15
2,129.86
2,210.87
1,300.31
997.70
830.64
2,549.79
2.088.36
1,423.38
3,532.93
1.103.47
1,949.00
498.00
1,321.70

5,078.52·
2.311.32.
2,071.60•
3,034.57.
336.so•
877.18*
803.61 *
1.283.59*
1.312.51 *
962.15•
2.426.53·
I.557.00*
1.408.66*
2.051.11 *
2,723.16*
1,572.10*
1,586.I 4*
1.572.50*
872.74*
368.43*
1.244.07*
1.036.75*
1.610.00*
1.705.01 *
1.793.13*
8,459.98*
231.00
2,462.99*
2,546.37*
1,290.24*
670.96*
880.59*
815.00*
1.028.00*
2,927.78*
2.128.89*
1.010.00*
2,722.49*
1.561.1 8*
2.012.21 •

745
310
192
414
66

2,611.94*
825.86*
1, 125.50*
2,043.80*
1.380.58*
1.228.90*
726.43*
1.660.27*
2,746.74*
1.666.13*
456.46
841 .30*
2,973.09*
1.606.03*
1.455.45*
3,575.76*
1.098.71 *
2,1 85.75*
623.00*
883.68*

352
74
122
189
171
137
156
200
332

Contrib.

137

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIJI..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Members %

72

118
115
185
81
303
258
57
218
292
252
130
220
202
55
154
85
262
172
195
708
40
567
377
142
90
106
104
234
412
333
153
416
174
213

81
51
59
74
57
28
51
27
48
27
43
52
23
45
59
57
39
61
86
31
H

28
39
35
57
57
19
92
51

Ave.
Gift

5.53
3.81
6.34
5.45
2.93
3.43
3.46
2.99
3.H
3.21
3.48

3.14
5.70
4.26
5.50
3.58
4.72
4.39
3.71
2.09
3.52
3.44

35
40
57
98
50
45
48
65
61
54

2.39
3.16
5.20
6.77
1.09
3.99
3.47
1.36
2.58
3.29
4.45
4.28
3.57
2.88
3.17
1.21
5.46
5.09

47
38
40
53
45
55
90
36
15
211 59
76 32
113 31
31 8 51
118 32
186 50
385 47
143 55
294 46
110 57
87 26

3.46
4.26
3.65
5.71
3.67
1.98
4.17
3.0 1
3.75
1.62
1.93
2.50
4.76
4.35
3.89
1.37
1.19
3.i5
3.23
2.68

48

No.

Lodge

196!1

1968

Membenhlp

Contrib.

Contrlb.

1.523.84
883.86
2.325.35
641.80
218.25
3.214.13
I.806.04
790.07
898.75
3,397.58
430.50
409.00
1.076.50
1.677.01
1.113.55
626.00
1.714.48
2,015.77

1.746.89*
1.814.72*
2.325.52*
775.88*
247.00
3.157.99*
1.800.88*
794.10*
908.00*
3.310.75*
330.00
466.50*
963.00*
1.793.04*
876.75
1.134.00*
1.493.33*
1.959.08*
266.50·
773.50*
401.00*
1.526.87*
312.74*
737.oo·
2,419.09*
427.00*
198.97
1,096.50*
329.50*
1.393.00*
1,973.06*
192.00*
1.180.19*
1.698.60*
1.003.98*
1.507.00*
1,562.50*
1.201.50*
2,722.46.
777.55*
587.00*
1.600.99*
1.642.86*
868.00*
1.218.00*
138.96*
2,108.26*
I.652.50*
1,207.61*
606.00*
745.50*
1.812.00*
1.012.00·
1,787.79*
1.954.92*
1.153.25*
341.00*
737.80*
238.00
2.862.00*
671.00*

Baldwin Park.................... 371
Malta ---·-····················------- 241
Henry Knox .................... 370
Oj ai .................................. 181
Kaweah ............................ 134
Reseda ·--··························· 904
Meridian ··-·······-··············- 510
Sa n Gorgonio .................. 256
John P. Jarman ................ 326
GTeenlea f ········--···········----- 873
San Clemente .................. 179
La guna Beach .................. 222
F ar West .......................... 320
Los C erritos .................... 530
Modesto ............................ 549
Willow Glen .................... 389
Liberal Arts ·····-··············· 127
Altadcna .......................... 469
Canby Cross-··-···-···········- 123
680 Carmel .............................. 252
681 Dos Palos ........................ 159
682 Barstow ............................ 199
683 Redwood Empire ............ 129
684 Trona ................................ 165
685 San Marino .................... 179
686 Albany ·······-····················· 210
687 Vista ·······--··-···················· 367
688 Oildale ·········-·-·-······-·····---- 278
689 Pohona --·-···---·················89
690 San Carlos .................. ...... 458
Indian
Wells
V
alley
......
151
691
692 Travelers .......................... 203
693 Palm Springs .................. 313
694 San Antonio .................... 281
695 Meudell ............................ 231
696 Crossroads ---------··············· 335
697 Saint Elmo ........................ 299
698 Wm. D. Stephens............ 196
699 Bixby Knolls .................... 419
700 Ponderosa ........................ 388
701 Sa nta Ynez V alley ........ 158
702 Rosemead .......................... 256
703 W estc:hester .................... 457
705 E l Cerrito ........................ 224
706 Hunters Point N aval .... 215
707 La ke T ahoe ---············-··· 113
708 Seafar ing .......................... 561
709 Lorenzo -·-··············--········· 384
710 Anacaf a .......................... 282
711 Rim o the World............ 210
712 Los Altos ················-······-- 251
713 C astro Valley ········--········ 354
714 Blue Lakes ...................... 244
715 Magnolia Park ................ 360
716 Belmo nt Shore---·········-····· 391
717 Wayfarer ........................ 198
718 San Lorenzo Valley ----·· 127
719 E stero ········---------·----····-·· 170
720 Mineral King -------··-·---·- 137
721 Ho me ··············------··········· 685
722 George E. Tutt..._ ____ 205

660
661
662
663
665
666
667
668
669
670
671
672
673
671
675
676
677
678
679

707.00
347.00
1.526.50
304.73
635.58
2,490.16
4i!.OO
762.85
1,050.00
290.00
1.243.50
532.50
1.028.65
1.456.27
977.59
1.177.50
1.626.00
828.50
2,565.30
781.50
608.00
1,369.38
1.609.70
695.76
1,112.00
268.50
1,876.52
1.515.62
1.551.94
683.00
769.00
1.800.00
987.50
1.568.57
1.882.10
993.61
355.50
99.87
329.00
2,341.07
681.50

1969

1969 Participation
Members%

HO 38
219 90
171 46
61 35
62 46
308 34
185 36
140 55
151 46
511 59
53 30
19 22
182 57
317 60
129 23
167 13
227 53
217 46
60 19
103 41
103 65
285 57
47 36
117 71
293 61
94 -45
113 31
213 77
68 76
209 46
189 100
58 29
171 55
171 60
187 81
309 92
182 61
121 62
361 86
155 10
134 85
182 71
191 -42
140 63
191 90
16 41
278 49
303 79
165 59
144 69
120 48
327 92
180 71
21 5 60
216 55
138 70
101 80
118 69
33 24
436 64
123 60

Ave.
Gift

4.71
7.44
6.29
4.22
t.84
3.49
3.53
3.10
2.79
3.79
1.84
2.10
3.01
3.38
1.60
2.92
3.50
4.18
2.17
3.07
2.54
3.06
2.12
4.47
5.05
2.03
1.36
3.94
3.70
3.04
4.35
2.42
3.77
5.98
1.35
1.50
5.23
6.13
6.50
2.00
3.72
6.25
3.59
3.88
5.67
3.88
3.74
1.30
4.28
2.89
2.97
5.12
1.1 5
4.97
5.00
5.82
2.71
1.31
1.74
1.18
3.27

138
No.

723
724
725
726
727
728
729
730
731
732
733
734
735
736
737
738
739
740
741
742
743
744
745
746
747

748
749
750
751
752
753
754
7.55
756
757
758
759
760
761
762
763
764
765
766

767
768
769

770
771
772
773

774
775

776
777
778
779
780
781
782

783

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

1969
Member.;hip

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrib.

1969 Participation

Ave.
Gift

236
174
287
265
l 14
282
166
214
204
258
181
212
143
512
192
129
178
241
295
178
105
235
180
195
163
205
189
194
166
242
242
148
188
339
136
231
247
157
216
167

697.45
571.00
1.009.55
668.52
600.57
958.52
930.46
826.50
1,134.40
1.040.00
1,012.50
1.413.08
341.52
1.570.89
919.00
468.50
814.23
983.87
1.232.90
140.32
594.00
905.00
1,140. to
712.00
430.46
631.02
329.00
407.97
521.34
810.49
1.106.15
247.00
1,099.50
1.244.00
496.00
984.00
1,169.44
375.30
804.50
912.00
956.50
1,070.29
1.337.74
1,000.69
641.00
1.797.74
1,402.26
635.00
929.50
53.78
1,124.57
766.50
283.00
1,654.06
218.50
1.268.70
913.33
1,440.43
954.11
360.00
341.00

756.90*
692.00*
678.50*
754.50*
1,116.13*
1.301.52*
848.79*
993.66*
1,334.77*
1,301.75*
1,071.00*
950.80*
387.50*
1.620.93*
1.285.50*
564.00*
1.048.89*
1.800.34*
1,193.16*
902.36*
656.00*
1.047.00*
1,301.65*
737.50*
326.71 *
741.12*
529.00*
497.10*
434.50*
886.50*
1.060.22*
364.03*
1,036.80*
1.050.99*
590.50*
1,053.38*
1.090.39*
551.17*
928.50*
879.75*
697.00*
1.226.54*
1.418.74*
983.20*
644.00*
1.707.50*
1.411.95*
509.00*
1.016.50*
403.68*
844.09*
850.50*
277.00
1.900.01 *
156.75*
1.475.77*
861.47*
1.333.21 *
1,164.41 *
343.26*
25650*

95 40
71 41
98 34
141 53
114 100
131 46
83 50
78 36
149 73
145 56
129 71
123 58
108 76
218 43
119 62
93 72
95 53
146 61
117 40
156 88
110 100
148 63
134 74
116 59
72 44
108 53
82 43
65 34
82 49
158 65
139 57
44 30
134 71
128 38
66 49
93 40
117 47
94 60
137 63
129 77
111 56
150 76
144 93
97 63
70 46
143 45
149 54
94 56
156 60
46 58
157 63
104 50
40 19
311 100
45 82
189 86
74 57
131 83
70 52
85 58
52 59

3.21
3.98
2.36
2.85
9.79
4.62
5.11
4.64
6.54

Acalanes .......-.................
San Ramon Valley............
Saint John's ·--------------------·
Yucaipa ............................
Verdugo Hills -----------------·
Lakewood ........................
Centennial ····-------------------Polaris ...-.........................
Two Rivers ------·---·-···--·---·
San Juan ..........................
Golden E mpire ................
Kit Carson ·····-------·-····--··
Oasis of Mara ··--··-··------Lemon Grove.....................
Hillsborough ....................
Arvin -------------------------------La Canada ---··----------------Opportunity _..................
Tyre -----------------------------·-·
Morningside Park ............
Oakwood --------·----------------·
San Lea ndro ·····-·-·-··-------·
Peninsula ..........................
Soquel ..............................
Cla ude H. Morrison----· --·
Highland ..........................
Merced ·---··-·----·-····---------M other Colony ·········---·-··
Hamilton ..........................
Luther Burbank ................
Lawndale ·-----------------------San Pablo ........................
Golden Bowl ....................
Clayton V alley·--------------·
Channel ............................
West Covina....................
El Rancho ·····------------------·
Lakeside ·------------------------·
Josiah W. Roller·-·---·-----··
Coastside ·------------------------Arabic -···------------------------Heritage ............................
Dana R. Weller -------------\ymes H. Kew ................
m. Rhode.s Hervey......
Zenith ----------------------------·-·
Palmdale -------------------------Lake Chabot ..................
Mission Bay ------------------Avenal ·-·-·-----------------·-----Tejon ................................
W aikikl ·-------------------------San Diegulto ....................
East Whittier ------------··---·
Pinnacle ·---·---------------·------La Mirada ........................
Five Points ......................
Riviera ..............................
Rolling Hills ··--·-···--·------Silverado ..........................
Mojave

200

197
155
155
152
316
274
167
260
79
250
209
212
252

55

221

130
158
135
146
88

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Members %

5.05
5.92
4.48
2.71
3.17
6.70
4.37
5.89
7.47
4.04
5.07
6.25
4.46
7.23
3.78
2.00
3.62
2.80
2.56
2.62
3.66

4.38
2.46
5.51
3.10
4.34
4.56
4.41
3.51
4.30
5.27
3.49
6.23
9.15
6.34
4.24
5.40
5.15
3.05
3.91
5.11
3.38
4.07
1.31
7.54
2.85
6.68
6.63
8.44
8.63
2.35
2.91

Ho.

784
785
786
787
788
789
790
791
792
793
794
795
796
797
798
799
800
801
802
803
804
805
806
807
808
809
810
811
812
813
814
815
816
817
818
819
820
821
822
823
824
825
826

lod11

1969
Member.;hlp

1968
Contrib.

1969
Contrib.

1969 P1rtlclpatlon
Members %

107 56
Leland Stanford ----·-·-·---·· 192
300.00
491.00*
111 72
Paramount ------------·-·-·------· 155
766.70
841.07*
Rio Linda .......................... 130
1.042.00
1.116.20*
133 100
84 60
Westminster -------------------· HO
313.66
487.23*
92 81
Sierra ................................ 113
7.00
506.06*
Oak Plains ........................ 305
1,153.00
1.044.50*
128 42
132 65
Granada Hills .................. 203
1.653.07
1.595.24*
Gen. Henry H. Arnold.... 156
601.65
581.90*
158 100
Millbrae ............................
74
240.00
291.50*
42 57
Maya ................................ 111
397.53
431.34*
81 73
127 80
Mt. Wilson ·--------------------- 158
882.23
949.57"
American River ................ 176
572.25
576.50*
89 51
93 50
Golden Valley ·-----·-··-------- 185
907.63
908.00*
270 100
Tila Pass .......................... 136
724.92
1.513.56*
Ashland ............................ 137
446.50
429.00*
74 54
59 48
Clairemont Mesa ............ 122
393.00
425.00*
138 100
Rio Hondo ·-·-·------------------- 130
2,434.49
2,499.67*
Koolau .............................. 113
337.50
370.00*
52 16
80 43
Yucca Valley .................. 187
625.55
559.50*
61 68
The Gabilan ·------------------90
231.50
376.50*
Moreno Valley................
95
341.17
345.58*
66 69
92 60
Camellia ............................ 153
1.095.07
1.035.44*
55 43
Simi Valley ---------------------- 129
484.00
310.00*
Conejo Valley.................. 147
337.52
524.69*
81 55
93 63
Scepter .............................. 148
454.40
511 .00*
81 63
Los Alamitos ·--·---------------- 128
519.50
483.00*
Victoria P alms ................ 119
349.15
372.09*
68 57
93 56
Woodland Hills .............. 167
659.49
627.68*
Triad.................................. 109
585.50
539.55*
68 62
Old West.......................... 142
997.39
1.172.02*
142 100
Plaza de. Los Angeles......
86
545.50
798.51 *
81 94
70 64
Mount Baldy -------------------- 110
622.29
533.43*
Wm. B. Ogden..................
69
279.56
371.76*
28 41
Manhattan ........................
47
239.00
96.50*
23 49
Great Lights...................... 205
750.02
999.43*
149 73
Frank S. Land.................. 144
601.14
668.84*
111 77
96 70
Mar Vista ·--···----------·---·--· 137
719.39
751.26*
18 38
Gateway····--·---···----····------47
101.00
93.00
Boron ................................
78
213.10
200.65*
34 44
Maccabee .......................... 106
797.00
1.030.00*
117 100
60 63
Camarillo -·--······------------····
95
500.50
463.50*
Gemini ..............................
58
459.00
484.00*
41 71
Palm Desert ....................
48
334.00*
47 98
So. Calif. Researcht........
318.00
75
Overall average contribution ....
Grand Tota l ..............236,870 863,339.82 886,120.14 111.745

fNot included in total membership.

Ave.
Gift

2.56
5.43
8.59
3.48
4.48
3.42
7.86
3.73
3.94
3.89
6.01
3.28
4.91
11.13
3.13
3.48
19.23
3.27
2.99
4.18
3.64
6.77
2.40

3.57
3.45
3.77
3.13
3.76
4.95
8.25
9.29
4.85
5.39
2.05
4.88
4.64
5.48
1.98
2.57
9.72
4.88
8.34
6.96
7.93

110

141

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE

CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE
OF SECURITIES AND INVESTADLE CASH*
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) and D OLLAR INCOME (In Parenthese•)

FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30,

1969
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its nineteenth year of activity,
and herewith renders its report for the twelve months ended June 30,
1969. Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background
and basic information, which should be helpful to those attending Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent •Man Rule, in modified form, was adopted by and for
Grand Lodge at the 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges
a Prudent Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent
Lodges, but Grand Lodge makes the services of its investment advisor
available to the Lodges. Many Lodges are making use of this service.
The following is Moody's report of activities for Constituent Lodges
for the year ending June 30, 1969:
Constituent Lodge Activity Report-July 1, 1968 to June 30, 1969:
Number of Active Lodges at end of period........
91
Number of inactive Lodges ................................
218
Approximate portfolio value ............................ $9.432,150
Approximate average value of portfolios .......... $ 36,005
Lodge letters........................................................
121
Moody's letters ....................................................
127
Telephone contacts ..............................................
77
Office visits ..........................................................
12
The Investment Committee hopes that the Lodges are making full
and continuing use of this valuable service.
We would also like to call your attention to the fact that there is a
circular issued by Grand Lodge regarding the investment of funds by
Constituent Lodges, which is available at the Grand Secretary's office.
It is my understanding that a copy of this 'Circular or reprint of Section
403 with respect to investments by Constituent Lodges has been inserted in the new Lodge Manual.
Since its inception, the Investment Committee has met regularly
every three months. This has now been changed so that the Committee
will meet every two months. Between meetings the business of the Committee is conducted by correspondence or telephone. The Committee is
available at all times, should special meetings be advisable or necessary.
As stated, we have just completed nineteen years of operations. The
following is a summary of the consolidated market value of the securities owned, plus investable cash, together with a record of dollar income
on these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950, and for each
succeeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1969, including the percentage
income on the market value of each year:

ln~m•

Date
11/30/50
8/13/61

8/ 4/62
7/Sl/58
7/81/54
7/81/66
7/31/56
6/80/57 ..
6/80/58
6/30/69
6/80/60
6/S0/61
6/30/6Z
6/80/ 68
6/!0/6'
8/80/ 66
8/80/66
6/80/67
8/80/68
8/80/69

GROUP I
A.mount Percent
92.4%
($94,280)
4,658,243
76.8
(SH,084)
4,218,637
63.4
($85,827)
4,693, 120
63.6
($102,381)
4,351,294
61.8
($95,258)
6,630,942
55.5
($126,621)
6.011,460
64.1
($157, 122)
5,205,936
46.0
($153,234)
6,397,547
48.1
($174,662)
6,664,915
48.3
($242,713)
7,249, 780
53.8
($282,574)
41.4
6,741.788
($246,626)
4,835,11 5
80.4
($169,025)
7, 130,965
34.8
($256,948)
10,830, 579
62.2
($418,720)
10.289,650
45.9
($404,051)
lS,255,67 1
60.l
($569,658)
12, 198,532
46.6
($645,922)
13,685.207
46.6
1$636.R., 9)
11,831,807
86.8
($577,172) •

s 5,668.329

GROUP II
GROUP III
Amount Percent
Amount Percent
s 102,140 1.7% $ 364,003 5.9%
($ 4,262)
($22,056)
389,000
6.5
1,025,725
17.2
($16,652)
($63,208)
574,096
8.7
1,856,121
27.9
($20,832)
($98,614)
479,527
2,208,658
29.9
6.5
($19,394)
($112,816)
771,147
9.2
3,27 8,814
89.0
($27 ,963)
($162,076)
678,610
6.7
3,820,092
87.8
($24,394)
($158.330)
1,596,562
8,505,096
14.4
SU
($63,588)
($150,697)
l,928,381
17.0
4,192,291
87.0
($89,399)
($197,673)
2,253. 739
4,878,339
88.9
17.9
($96,946)
($225,340)
1,854,635
13.6
6,270,217
88,2
($87 ,858)
($ 185,854)
2,379,060
17.7
3,837 ,628
28.6
(Sll 7,031)
($14 2,233)
2, 951,093
6,689,011
40.5
18.1
($22 1,222)
( $137. 967)
8,101,090
7,973,485
50.l
19.5
($H7,489 )
( $323 ,243)
1.622,635
11, 068,171
57.6
7.6
($65,373)
($375,150)
694 ,478
9,188,969
8.4
4t.4
($30,325)
($289,416)
932 ,287
11 .199 ,347
4.16
50.0
($40,202 )
($380,llO)
1.811,907
8,961,464
7.5
87.4.
($76,092)
($364,116)
2,749,262
11.290, 678
10.6
43.0
( $115,557)
($469 ,986)
S,239,726
12,443,437
42.4
11.0
( $137.190)
($474.604)
14, 113,227
46.8
6,376,935
17.4
($282,629)
($549,128)

PercentTOTALS
age
Amount
Returnf
s 6,124,471
1,97%
($120.598)
6,972,968
2.58
($153.939)
8.09
6,648,854
($205,272)
7,381,306
8.21
($236,690)
8,401,256
8.28
($275,296)
10,129,644
8.06
($309,345)
11,113,108
3.34
($371,407)
11,326,608
3.92
($440,306)
12,629,625
8.97
($496,948)
13, 789 ,767
8.76
($517,426)
4.02
18,466,468tt
($541,838)
16,281,892
8.72
($606,814)
4.02
l5.909,690i
($639,757)
l9,721,661U
8.6'
($697 ,471)
20,714,026••• S.57
($738,717)
22,421 ,2841
8 .68
($824,363)
24,029,042
4.20
($1,009,866)
26,238,472
4.27
(SI, 121.464)
29.368.370ttt 4.25
(Sl.24S.653l
4.57
30,821,969'1!1
($1,408,929) <j'it

•saving• bank deposits with interest earned thereon are Included In Group I.
tOn market value.
••.F lacal year changed to J une SO.
ttThe amount of $1.130,000 wns withdrawn from the Masonic Home• General Fund, and the
amo unt of $85,000 from the Flint Fund, during the year e nded June 80, 1960, to pay for the
new ho1pital at Decoto (total Sl,215,000 withdrawn).
:rI'he amount of $128,000 was withdrawn from the Grand Lodge portfolio In the year ended June
80, 1962, to fund the unpaid balance of Grand Lodge P en sion Fund.
UThe amount of $354,000 was withdrawn from the General Fund In the year ended June 80,
1968, for new dormit ory at Union City (Decoto).
•••The amount of $939,023.52 waa withdrawn from the General Fund In the year ended June 30,
1964, aa part payment for the new Chules Albert Adams Hall at Union City (Deeoto).
IThe amount of $314,689 was withdrawn from the General F u nd and the amount of $77,700 w as
withdrawn from the Flint F und durin g the year ended June 30, 1965, for the new Charles
Albert Adams Hall at Union City (Decoto).
tttThe amount of $18,992 waa withdrawn from the Meserve Fund and the amount of $31,159 was
withdrawn from the General Fund, during the year ended June 30, 1968, for various capital
expend.lturea. Securities In the amount of $131,622.29 were eold for the California M asonic
Memorial Temple, the fund1 to be used for the purchase of real eatate contiguou1 to the
Temple property.
Hln the year ending June 30, 1969 the amount of $59,485 .18 w as withdrawn from the General
Fund covering Covina Redevelopment in Prog r ess. T h is amount wlll be charged to the Florence
K. Burt Fund at a later date. T he a mount of $4 ,181.12 was also withdrawn from the General
Fund for various capital expendit ures to the H omes , and the amount of $2,683.88 waa withdrawn from the Meserve Fund for the Covina Ho me Recreation Area.
Note-the withdrawals llsted above tot al $3,276,535.94.
'IHReferenee ohould be made to the fact that stock dividends are not included a s current incomthey remain u part of principal. AB of now, there is no fixed or uniform thought In lnve1tment
clrclea with respect to such stock dividends, therefore the Committee continues to allocate them
to th• corpua of our aueta, wbicb in the case of the Endowment Fund remains Inviolate u
part of principal.

142

During the past year securities were sold at prices yielding
$621 ,230.90 more than their cost, thereby increasing the total asset value.
Since the inauguration of the Prudent Man Rule in 1950, this total
amounts to $7,009,049.03. Sales always remain a part of capital assets
and are never included in income totals. With respect to the Endowment Fund, no capital assets are ever withdrawn.
Endowment Fund contributions made through the Lodges amounted
to $886,120.li for the year ended June 30, 1969. Other contributions to
the Endowment Fund were : Gifts and Bequests $411,826.53, Memorials
$23,351.09, and Dona tions from Organizations and Individuals
$7, 448.98. General Fund Gifts and Bequests amounted to $1.700.119.83
(which also includes real estate and items other than stocks and bonds).
The Masonic Homes Board of Trustees determines how these gifts and
bequests are allocated-such allocations are made in accordance with
specific bequests. or in the absence of such at the direction of the
Trustees. The Endowment Fund contributions remain in that fund, and
only the income is used.
May we also call attention to the fact that the consolidated portfolio,
after taking into account the several withdrawals listed above aggregating $3.276,535.94, has increased since November 1950 from $6,124,471
to $30,821.969, or about 403.26%. and at the same time the income has
increased from $120.598 to $1,408.929, or about 1068%.
The following is the consolidated investment portfolio of Grand
Lodge, with market values as of June 30, 1969, divided into the various
groups. and s howing the percentages of each group, together with the
income return for each group on the market value:
GRAND LODGE F . & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
CONSOLIDATE D PORTFOLIO - JUNE 30, 1969
(Market Value)
GROUP I

Market
Valae

Cash ·-··-·······.. ·········-··-··.............$ 860,000
Bonds:
U.S. Treasury ............................ 2,026,381
Federal Agency ........................ 3,609. 737
65,600
Municipal ....................................
188,750
International Bank ..................
Public Utility ............................ 1,042,375
Transportation .......................... 3,538,964
TOTAL BONDS ........................$10,471,807
TOTAL GROUP I ................$11,331,807

Income

Prrcent

$

36.77

GROUP II
Bonds:

Retam on
Market

34,400

79,673
216,225
3,050
11 ,250
65,561
167,013
$ 542,772
$ 577,172

5.0

5,625
48,000
144,522
$ 198,147

Preferred Stocks:

17.44

$ 84,482
$ 282,629

GROUP III
Common Stocks:

Public Utility .....................- ..$ 4,476.563
Industrial .................................... 6,766,909
Finance ........................................ 2,620,380
249,375
Transportation ..........................
TOTAL GROUP III ..............$14,113,227
TOTAL PORTFOLIO ........$30,821,969

$ 228,564

45.79
100.00

230,029
80,035
10,500
$ 549,128
$1,408,929

3.8
4.6

We have three principal accounts, the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund, the Masonic Homes General Fund, Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of
California, plus the several smaller funds of the Masonic Homes. The
record is kept by Moody's as one total fund. thereby reducing our cost
very materially. However, Grand Lodge records are kept separate as to
each fund, as are the records of the Investment Committee. As a matter
of interest, we list here the market values of the portfolios of the individual funds, together w ith the income and yield at market prices :
Total Vaine•

Income•

Yield•

Masonic Homes of California
Endowment Fund ........................................$20,495,201.58 $941,456.63 4.59%
Masonic Homes of California General Fund 7,051,127.14 303,863.28 4.31
45,452.25 4. 74
959,569.31'
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California ........
Masonic Homes of California
13,854.80 4.85
285,412.32
Edm und Clement Atkinson F und..............
Masonic Homes of California
1,257.00 5.56
22,625.00
Brigham Scholarship Fund ........................
Masonic Homes of California
11,341.74 4.31
263,069.20
Florence K. Burt Fund ................................
10,379.80 4.03
257,748.50
Masonic Homes of California Flint Fund....
Masonic Homes of California
2,491.50 5.00
49,825.00
Luckenbach Fuqd ...................................... ..
Masonic Homes of California
7,450.75 4.57
163,209.13
Alida 0 . Meserve Fund ..............................
650.00 5.33
12,187.50
Masonic Homes of California Perine Fund..
Masonic Homes of California
13,924.10 4.55
306,116.19
Students Loan Fund ....................................
Masonic Homes of California
466.00 5.97
7,800.00
Wadleigh Fund .......................................... ..
9,631.25 6.31
152,656.25
California Masonic Memorial Temple ........
15,420.40 6.93
222,535.57
California Masonic Foundation ................... .
(•As of June SO. 1969, includin1r !nvutable <"Uh. lntereot on oavinp a ccount.a, lnve..table cub
only, la figured at • %- A ll of the obove fig ures are as of June 80, 1969, o.nd the yield on Investments would vary during the year, depending Ul>OD the man y factors involved. )

$

Corporate ...........- .......................$ 109,125
706,000
Financial ....................................
Convertible ................................ 2,726,085
TOTAL BONDS ....................$ 3,541,210
Convertible ................................ $ 1,835,725
TOTAL GROUP II ..............$ 5,376,935

143

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

5.2

The Masonic Homes of C aliforn ia holds various Masonic Temple
shares or certificates, listed as follows:
2 shs Santa Ana Masonic Temple Assn. Ltd. capital stock
3 shs Masonic Temple Assn. of Stockton capital stock
9 shs Dunsmuir Masonic Temple Assn. capita l stock
51 shs Masonic Hall Association of Alameda capital stock
1 cert. of membership San Gabriel Masonic Temple Assn.
1 cert. for 10 memberships Rio Vista Masonic Temple Assn. Inc.
19 certs. Masonic Hall Association of Ontario
8 shs Sebastopol Masonic Bldg. Assn.
1 cert. for 521h memberships Los Altos Masonic Temple Assn.
2 certs. Hemet Masonic Building Ass.n.

1H

145

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

These evidences of debt or certi.6cates are owned by the Masonic
Homes of California. It would be appreciated if negotiations were under·
taken by those Lodges or Temple Associations which could afford to
redeem these certificates. The Investment Committee would greatly
appreciate your consideration of this request. Just write to the Grand
Secretary for further information.
Grand Lodge owns 21 shares of Ramona Savings & Loan Associa·
tion, located in Fillmore, California, which stock regularly pays cash
dividends. The book value of the stock is now $1.298.00 per share. In
answer to our recent inquiry, the Association informed us that 9 shares
have recently sold at an average price of $650.00 per share. However,
we are holding the shares, and do not contemplate selling them at this
time. For the 7 months ended July 31 , 1969, Ramona Savings & Loan
showed a net profit of $111,758.00.
We also own 102 shares of Corona Foothill Lemon Company. the
market value of which is much too low as compared to its potential
value. Consequently these shares are being held. The territory in which
this property is located in Southern California is steadily improving in
value. These shares should also be an excellent growth situation. We
quote from a letter from the company, in response to our recent inquiry:
"Our formal report to shareholders for our fiscal year ending Oc·
tober 31. 1969, should be ready about January 1.
"The current year's crop was severely reduced both in size and
quality due to the freeze of last December. As a result our citrus income
is very low and we will show a substantial loss in this operation for the
current year.
"Our Canyon Lake project is going very well and it appears that
this venture will more than compensate for our farming losses. The
major part of the project should be completed by next spring and we will
be better able to analyze the situation then. Although we should show a
good profit. there are also certain contingent liabilities which must be
recognized. We have been looking for other projects to carry on our
business in this field but have not yet been successful."
The entire portfolio is listed in the Grand Treasurer's and the
Auditor's reports, and therefore is not included herein. The securities are
always held in safekeeping for account of Grand Lodge by the Trust
Department of the Crocker Citizens National Bank, at its One Mont·
gomery Street Office, San Francisco.
We have had excellent attendance at our Investment Committee
meetings during this year, as has been the case since this Committee was
organized. It was a pleasure to have Deputy Grand Master Chester R.
MacPhee at several of our meetings, as well as Junior Grand Warden
Lester S. McElwain, and P. G . M. Laurence E. Dayton representing the
Masonic Homes Board of Trustees. At the March 27, 1969 meeting
Judge Chamberlain dropped in for lunch.

Again we come to that portion of the Investment Committee t'eport
where we try to summarize in a few words our thoughts as to the
financial and investment outlook.
The investment outlook, as we see it at this time, continues to be one
of conservatism and caution. We are evidently going through a transi·
tion period, which causes us to maintain a more conservative approach.
In the meantime, the Prudent Man Rule continues to be our yard·
stick. We have an excellent and diversified list of investments, with
bonds and stocks , which are always under scrutiny.
Our Investment Counsel attends every meeting of the Committee,
and has always given us sound and conservative advice.
We again repeat that our course of action can be quite different
from that of an individual for a variety of reasons. This statement is
made so as not to unduly influence individuals in their personal invest•
ment programs.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary and his staff. and to the Grand
Lodge officers who attended meetings from time to time. My thanks also
to the members of the Investment Committee for their wholehearted and
generous cooperation at all times.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment Committee:
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Chairman
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER

ARTHUR LINSK

}ACK F. BOWLEY

JoH N S1cKENBBRGER

Adopted.
At 4:45 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 a.m. Tuesday.

146

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Tuesday, October 14, 1969
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 a.m., the Grand Master presiding.
This session was raised by Worshipful Earle J. Stone, Jr., Master of
Blackmer Lodge No. 442. The invocation was delivered by the Grand
Chaplain. The minutes of the morning and a fternoon sessions of Monday,
October 13, were read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. 6 A . M. of California:
The Grand Treasurer's Report in its entirety is referred to the
Committee on Finance with special attention to the items listed as expenditures for which no provision was made at the last Communication.
The portions of the Grand Secretary's Report herein listed are referred to the committees indicated:
That portion relating to the changes of meeting places to the Committees on Charters and on By-Laws.
Those portions relating to the consolidation of Lodges and to the
replacement of a charter to the Committee on Charters.
In reviewing the Message of the Grand Master we note that his
references to receptions and other activities reflect the great respect
which is accorded to the office of Grand Master.
We refer his recommendations as follows:
No. 1 to the incoming Grand Master.
No. 2 to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.
No. 3 to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
No. 4 to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, the Committee on Jurisprudence and the Committee on Finance.
We recommend that both decisions (Nos. 1 and 2) be ref erred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.
This committee has in mind the provision in Section l 40-2nd of the
California Masonic Code which requires the Grand Master to set forth
in detail all of his official acts. In the absence of such acts being fully
reported, we are unable to recommend any reference thereof to committees.
Respectfully submitted,
HENRY D. OLIPHANT, Chairman
DAVID H . TERRY

Adopted.

JOHN

w. SWANK

147

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. 6 A. M. of California:
The Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
herewith submits its Fifteenth Annual Report.
· -At the close - of the 1968 Annual Communi~ti~n~Cthe Gr~d
Lodge. the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple held its Annual Meeting. The President, Ralph H. Head, reported to the Board of Trustees the election of the Right Worshipful
Chester R. MacPhee as Deputy Grand Master, the Right Worship ful
Herbert A. Huebner as Senior Grand Warden and the Right Worshipful Lester S. McElwain as Junior Grand Warden. On motion duly made,
seconded and carried, they were duly elected members of the Board of
Trustees as provided in the California Masonic Code.
The Board of Trustees then proceeded to nominate and elect its
Officers to serve for the ensuing year until new ones were elected.
Our magnificent Masonic Memorial Temple atop Nob Hill is in its
eleventh year of use. It continues as an outstanding center for the cultural and civic activities of a great metropolitan community. It also serves
as an inspiring image of our pride as Masons and of the fine teachings
of our Fraternity.
The thousands of visitors who enter our Masonic Memorial Temple
need look no further for an example of Masonry's contribution to the
beautification and advancement of civilization. It shines as a beacon
of our determination to continue to build well a dynamic free and educated country for the generations yet to come.
It has no peer as an outstanding setting and showplace for business,
fraternal and professional meetings, for the dramatic exhibition of the
new creations of industry, for fine concerts, s timulating lectures and
premier performances of musical and dramatic compositions.
TOURS AND VISITATIONS

The Temple is open daily, except Sa turday and Sunday. for visitors
from 8:45 A.M. to 4:45 P.M. If there are other activities in the Temple
on Saturday or Sunday, then additional tours are arranged. We have
had guests from every one of the 50 States and from many of the countries of the world visiting our T emple. This year we were hosts to visitors
from the following countries:
Africa
Belgium

Alas ka

Finland
Holland
Lebanon
Puerto Rico

France
India

Czechoslovakia

Canada

Denmark

Mexico
ScoUand

Australia
China
El Salvador
Germany
Ireland
Netherlands
S weden

Austria
Columbia
England
Guatemala
J apan
New Zealand
Virgin Islands

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Our Brethren from the 50 States and from the many countries seek
information to take home to their respective Lodges. They are amazed
at the beauty of our Temple, that it is debt free and the many faceted
activities of the Fraternity. We truly are a unique Grand Jurisdiction and
in the fore front of the growth of Freemasonry.
Many Senior Citizen groups. Rainbow for Girls, Job's Daughters ,
DeMolay Chapters and others continue to arrange for tours of our
beautiful building. Hundreds of school children visit our Temple and it
makes a lasting impres sion on them of our efforts to help them achieve
a better life through public school education.

INCOME

148

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

Nothing less than the highest standards of maintenance will preserve
the classic beauty of our Temple. After eleven years of use and occupancy. some of the mechanical equipment of necessity will require replacement. Painting, stripping and waxing is a continual necessity to
not only preserve the charm and usefulness of our building but also the
surface from erosion through wear and tear. Most of this has been done
during the past year by our own staff to reduce the cost of operations.
PuBLIC RELATIONS AND Civic AFFAIRS

Membership in the Nob Hill Association, San Francisco Convention
and Visitors Bureau, the Press Club of San Francisco and the Greater
San Francisco Chamber of Commerce serves as a much needed contact
with prominent civic and business leaders from whom many rental
prospects and much useful information can be obtained.
Our staff has been instructed and is making every effort to give that
extra something in service and attention to our tenants. Their fine
cooperation will not only build a better image of our Fraternity but also
make the use of our .6.ne facilities more enjoyable for our tenants.
Some of the tenants who have used our premises h ave graciously
appreciated this extra service and have commented in letters as follows:
"Thanks so much for your help. In all my experience in the public
relations profession I have never experienced such a perfect setting for
our Annual Meeting." "Your efforts and personal contribution helped
to make this year's event successful and meaningful." "I want it to go
on record and let you know how much we appreciated your help in
connection with the Shareholders Meeting last month. Let us hope that
it will not be too long before we are working together again."

149

During the past year the income from the building and garage
reached an all time high of $214,778.00. The fiscal year of July 1. 1968
to June 30, 1969 shows a 7.2 % increase in building income over that
of the last fiscal period.
Through judicious supervision the operating expenses, salaries, supplies, repairs, maintenance, including real and personal taxes increased
only 5.6%.
The garage showed an increase of 3.6% over the previous fiscal
year. This income will always continue to fluctuate because it is largely
based on the occupancy created from the use of the Auditorium and
Exhibition space. Thus more use of space means more income from this
source.
For the third successive year we have with pride and pleasure made
a contribution of $10,000 to our Masonic Homes of California.
New hotel and convention facilities will soon be a reality as the
Building Department of the City of San Francisco approves new projects
from plans submitted to them.
The Hyatt House Hotel Corporation is planning three new buildings in San Francisco, one of them is to be built immediately adjacent
to our own Temple. It is said to be 28 stories in height with over 400
rooms and have a large revolving restaurant on the top floor. Another
hotel is contemplated on Sacramento Street atop Nob Hill and the third
project will replace the Plaza Hotel in Union Square. The St. Francis
Hotel has cleared land adjacent for the construction of a high rise
tower. When the ho!el adjacent to the Masonic Memorial Temple is
commenced. the digging for its foundations will require the expenditure
of considerable funds to protect our building from structural settling
because of the strain on the natural ground supporting our foundations.
An architect has already been engaged to formulate plans to protect our
property.
A new hotel is planned for the northeast corner of Powell and Sutter
Streets. The Stanford Court Apartments on Nob Hill have been vacated
of all tenants and the complete reconstruction of its inner facilities will
soon begin.
The South of Market Y erba Buena Center is still on the list for
future development. We must be cognizant that each new hotel or convention facility will eventually be competitive for our clientele insofar as
meeting space and convention business is concerned.

TEMPLE STAPP

OCCUPANCY

Our operation only requires a small, loyal. creative, capable and
dedicated staff. Without dedication from them, it will be impossible to
meet the many challenges and trying problems that continually arise
in the management of an edi.6.ce such as ours. We appreciate their past
services and helpful assistance.

The Trustees believe that it is most desira ble that they continue a
plan of diversified rental of the Auditorium and Exhibition Hall as a
protection against the lessening use of either one by the booking of only
one form of tenancy. Each new hotel will encourage and bring additional
convention business to San Francisco and increase its reputation as an

150

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ideal place to hold meetings. Many conventions in the past did not
come to San Francisco because of the lack of ideal facilities required for
their use or type of meeting.
During the past year our Auditorium has been used for some of the
finest theatrical and concert type of performance s. With noted artists
such as the New York Philharmoni c Orchestra , Ballet Folklorico of
Mexico, Joan Sutherland. Vienna Boys Choir, Andres Segovia guitarist,
Grand Ka buki Theatre of Japan, Madrigal Chorus of Romania, Van
Cliburn internationa l pianist, N.D.R. Symphony of West Germany,
N.H.K. Symphony of Japan and Irina Arhipova, as performing artists,
the fine reputation of the Temple as a place of culture and refinement
befitting the admirable image of the Fraternity has been enhanced. The
Trustees believe that this type of tenancy and use of the premises
should be encouraged rather than the popular type of entertainme nt
which is of fleeting popularity and many times of questionable good
taste.
Our Auditorium is well adapted to all kinds of stockholder and
business meetings. The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey, the Bank
of America, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, Ford Company. The
League of California Cities, Radio Corporation of America and the
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company have used our Auditorium
this year. The Graduate School of Business of Stanford University
returned again this year.
Space does not permit a full recital of the many groups that have
used both the Auditorium and the Exhibition Hall for meetings of importance. The remainder of this year and all of 1970 are very heavily
booked for use of these facilities.
Japan occupied both the Auditorium and the Exhibition Hall for an
outstanding External Festival and Trade Fair celebrating "Japan
Week." In September the Internationa l Industrial Conference with
representati ves from over seventy countries used our premises for the
first time.
It is most satisfying that well known educational institutions continue
to hold their graduation exercises in our Auditorium because of the
beauty and impressive dignity that the setting contributes to the occasion.
These include the University of California M edical School, Hastings
Law School. and six San Francisco High Schools.
The State of California uses our Exhibition Hall for the examination s
conducted for Certified Public Accountant s and the State Bar of Cal~
ifornia holds its bar examination s in our premises.

was erected. This reduction in height will enable all attending the Communication to have a fine unobstructe d view of the Officers in th~ir
respective stations. It will not only enable them to perform more eas1~y
and with greater facility and dignity, but each Grand Lodg~ Officer will
be seen for the first time in many years in his proper perspective.
This remodeling was instigated at the special request and under the
direction of the Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, Grand Master of
Masons in California and Hawaii. It was accomplished through the
fine cooperation of our present tenants, who after bein~ informed as to
our intended plans, unanimously agreed that the lowering of the stage
was an excellent idea and would in no way interfere with their use of the
Auditorium. Many of the tenants remarked that the lowering of the
stage helped properly portray the event they were conducting.
To provide for the proper use of the stage should an additional
height be necessary for a concert or meeting . the Trustees have autho~­
ized the construction of additional facilities which are removable in
character and for which a tenant will pay an additional charge for their
use. These facilities will allow for multi use purposes and will be compatible with the requirement s of our tenants need and use.
The Trustees are grateful to the farsighted men whose vision pro~
vided the inspiration for the imposing and beautiful building known
worldwide as the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Sincerely and fraternally,
DE WALD BAUM (1969)
President

REMODELING
This year for the first time in many years the Members of Grand
Lodge attending the 1969 Communica tion will notice that the stage has
been lowered to the original height that it was at the time that the Temple

151

Officers and Trustees:
JAMES CRAVEN, Vice President
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
EDWARD H. SIEMS, Secretary
CHESTER R. MACPHEE, Deputy Grand Ma ster
HERBERT A . HUEBNER, Senior Grand Warden
LESTER S. McELWAIN, Junior Grand Warden
EvERETT C. Ross
EDWARD E. SEAGLE
HERBERT SMITH
BURTON 0. YOUNG
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

(NOTE: On Thursday afternoon of Grand Lodge Brother De Wald
Baum, President, on behalf of the Board of Trust~es, prese~ted to the
Grand Master a gold key to the California Masonic Memonal Temple
indicating it should be passed on to succeeding Grand Masters each
year.)

152

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Since filing our report for 1968, there have been changes in the pay~
roll tax laws which apply to our various Masonic organizations.
As has been our custom in past years, we present, for reference
purposes, the usual schedule of tax rates and wage bases for the various
payroll taxes which will be in effect during the calendar year 1970 and
thereafter.
The Nixon Administration has recently recommended changes in
unemployment insurance laws which could alter information provided
herein. We will advise you if such recommendations are enacted.
FEDERAL WITHHOLDING (INCOME) TAX

All wages paid to employees of a Masonic Lodge are subject to
Federal income tax withholding. In order to determine the amount of
income tax which is to be withheld from wages paid to its employees,
the lodge should ask each employee to complete and file with the
Secretary of the lodge a Federal Form W~4. "Employee's Withholding
Exemption Certificate." Reference to withholding tax tables furnished
by the Treasury Department will enable the Secretary to determine the
amount to be withheld. The 10% surtax is scheduled to expire on Jan~
uary 1, 1970. There should be ample notice and publicity to allow all
employers to obtain a supply of revised withholding tables should the
surtax expire as scheduled.
FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS ( SocrAL SECURITY}

As the law now stands, an employee of a Masonic Lodge is subject
to tax for each calendar quarter during which he earns $50.00 or more.
The tax rates shown below are applicable to the first $7,800.00 of wages
paid to each employee during the calendar year. These rates are to be
paid by both the employer and the employee.

Calendar Year
1970
1971,1972
1973~1975
1976~1979
1980~1986

1987 and thereafter

FICA

PER CENTUM
Hospital Insurance

4.2
4.6

.6
.6

5.0
5.0
5.0
5.0

.65

.7

.B
.9

Total
4.8
5.2
5.65
5.7
5.8
5.9

As a practical matter, the total tax (i.e., 4.8% for 1970} may be
applied to subject wages as no apportionment is required.

153

FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if they employ four or more
individuals who are paid $50.00 or more per calendar quarter, providing
they have first qualified as an "employer" by employing four or more
employees on at least one day in each of twenty or more weeks during
the calendar year. For this purpose, all paid employees of the lodge,
including the Secretary and those who are performing ritualistic services
(Tiler, Organist, Soloist), should be counted if they receive $50.00 or
more per calendar quarter. Federal Unemployment Tax at the rates
shown below will be applicable to the first $3,000.00 of wages paid to
each employee during the calendar year. However, lodges which are
subject to the California Unemployment Insurance Tax law, and which
meet certain requirements, will be entitled to a credit up to 2.7%. Only
the employer pays Federal Unemployment Tax.

Calendar Year
1970 and thereafter
(as law now provides)

Maximum Credit
For Payment of
Tax Rate
(Gross} Calif. Unemp. lns. Tax
2.7%
3.1 %

Tax Rate
(Net)

.4%

CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX

Masonic Lodges will be subject to this tax if the total wages paid
during a calendar quarter to taxable employees are in excess of $100.00.
For this purpose a taxable employee is one who is paid $50.00 or more
per calendar quarter. However, whether or not elected or appointed
officials of a lodge are to be counted as taxable employees will depend
upon whether or not the Lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment
Tax Act.
If the lodge is not subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act,
then the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be exempt
from California Unemployment Insurance Tax unless the wages paid
to these officials exceed $100.00 per month.
If the lodge is subject to the Federal Unemployment Tax Act, then
the wages paid to an elected or appointed official will be subject to Cali~
fornia Unemployment Insurance Tax if the wages paid to these officials
amount to $50.00 or more, per calendar quarter.
For purposes of this tax, the term "elected or appointed official" will
include any official of the lodge who is compensated for his services.
Those usually compensated for their services are the Secretary, Tiler,
Organist, and Soloist.
If the lodge is subject to California Unemployment Insurance Tax,
the rate shown below will be applicable to a $3,800.00 base paid to each
employee during the calendar year 1970. In other years this base may
fluctuate between $3,800.00 and $4, l 00.00.
Only the employer pays the tax. Rates are based on employment

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

154

155

PROCEEDlNGS OP THE

experience: Graduated from 0.0 or 0.8 % (depending upon which rate
schedule is in effect) to a maximum of 2.7%. State will furnish notification of rate.
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAxBALANC!NG AccouNT FUND

Wages subject to the tax under the heading "California Unemployment Insurance Tax" will also be subject to this tax . The rate can vary
from 0.2 % to 1.0%. Only the employer pays this tax. For the year 1970,
the rate will be 0.8%.
CALIFORNIA DISABILITY INSURANCE TAX

The rules regarding coverage, discussed under the heading "California Unemployment Insurance Tax," are the same for this part of the
law. Only the employee pays this tax . The tax rate is 1.0% and it is
applied to the first $7;400.00 paid to each employee.
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER L. CROCE, Chairman

w. STANLEY DAVIS

ROBERT R. YORK

Adopted.

REPORT OF CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
PUBLICATION BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The publication and distribution of the California Freemason is
administered by a board comprised of the Grand Master, the Grand
Secereta ry and the Editor-in-Chief who is appointed by the Grand
Master.
During its sixteenth year of publication the magazine has continued
to inform our membership concerning the activities of Grand Lodge and
to present ma terial explaining M asonic thought and to a dvance M asonic
principles. Each issue is diversified to supply both information and inspiration. Long scholarly articles, excellent in themselves, are avoided because they lack appeal for many of our quarter million readers. A
quarterly cannot be a news magazine but with the help of letters from
readers we are able to report a few oustanding events having sta te-wide
interest.
Each member of a California Lodge receives a copy automatically.
There has also been a gratifying number of paid subscriptions from
sojourners and from interested persons in other states and countries.
The present per capita of 35 cents has been just sufficient to cover
the cost of preparing, printing, distributing and mailing. This will suffice
for the future until such time as rising costs ove.r take us.

The financial figures for the past year will be found in the auditor's
report.
Respectfully submitted,
NEWCOMB Co NDEE, Editor-in-Chief
ROBERT A. CRIGLER,

EDW ARD H. S IEM S.

G rand Secretary
Grand Master
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC I-llSTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your C ommittee on Masonic History presents the following report:
The members of the Committee wish to express their appreciation
to the Grand Lodge and especially to our Grand Master, Robert A.
Crigler, for the privilege of serving. The cooperation of the Grand
Master and Grand Lodge has again made this year a pleasure.
Your Committee this year has expanded its studies on all of the
Masonic buildings, past and present, in California and Hawaii. More
and more Lodges are sending in material on their past and present homes.
All of this material is being compiled into a complete history of the meeting places used by the Lodges of this jurisdiction.
During the past year there have been man y dedications, cornerstone
layings. and other events of historical interest. Your Committee on
Masonic H istory h• s tried to be at as many of these events as possible.
The recording of these Masonic occurances is important as a part of the
history that binds us together from one generation to the next.
This Committee has been requested to study several historical sites .
Brother Darrell D. Hull of this Committee journeyed to "Masonic
Cave," the first meeting place of V olcano Lodge No. 56. This is one of
the interesting sites of our early California history. Brother Hull made
a survey and has made several suggestions for improvement of the site.
Other s ites are being studied at the present time. As the findings are
recorded they will be placed in the proper ha nds in Grand Lodge.
We are still getting calls to show our slide lecture, "Some Came by
Land and Some Came by Sea." This interesting lecture depicts pioneer
Masonry here in California . W e are in the process of expanding this
slide lecture and dividing it into different locales. Any Lodge or M asonic
group wanting this lecture for an interesting and educational even ing
may contact the Chairma n of the Committee and he will see that it is
available to you.
In order that your Committee may continue its work for the coming
y ear we submit the following budget:

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Postage ..................••....•............................. $ 60.00
Reproduction of photos ............................ 200.00
Travel expenses ........................................ 200.00
Telephone expense .................................. 40.00
This is a total amount of $500.00. We ask that this sum be appropriated for use by the Committee during the coming Masonic year and
hereby so request.
Respectfully submitted,
PHILIP L. GOLDSTEIN, Chairman
PAUL COWGILL

RALPH E. H. COOPER

WILLIAM

DARRELL D. HULL

w. GLIDDEN

RoBERT E. DoE

KARL A. VANDEBROOKE

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
COLUMBIA TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of California:
In behalf of the Columbia Temple Committee, I wish to thank the
Grand Secretary, Brother Edward Siems, and his secretaries for their
help and cooperation.
This Committe held two meetings in Columbia during the past year.
We had the misfortune of losing our Committee Secretary, Brother John
A. Kirby in May. Brother Donald M. Stewart, Jr. is now our Secretary
and Brother John Menzies of Mariposa has been appointed as a member.
During the past year the air conditioner has been installed and we
are sure it has made the conferring of degrees by the various visiting
Lodges more enjoyable. The window frames have been painted inside
and out and the ceiling of the lodge room has been insulated. There is
a light 6.xture in the ceiling over the altar which apparently has never
been wired. We hope to have this corrected in the very near future.
We are pleased that so many Lodges are using the Temple, sometimes two in one day; one in the afternoon and another in the evening.
We would like to point out that the fall months are an excellent time to
visit Columbia as the weather is cooler and the autumn colors make the
trip a pleasant one. If too cool the furnace keeps the hall comfortably
warm.
We have received many compliments on the museum, but we are
anxious to get more Masonic artifacts to put on display.
The following is our budget for 1969-1970:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

PROPOSED BUDGET FOR THE COLUMBIA TEMPLE

1969-1970
Fixed Charges & Expenses:
Utilities ......................................................$500.00
Miscellaneous Supplies ............................ 400.00
Burglar Alarm Service ............................ 96.00
Tape Recorder Service ............................ 36.00
Insurance .................................................. 103.24
Tuolumne County Taxes ........................ 55.45
Rental (Beaches & Parks) ......................
1.00
Furnace-lnsp. & Service........................ 30.00
Custodian ...............................................• 600.00

$1,821.69

Improvements :
Interpretative Imp .....................................$500.00
Electrical Wiring ...................................... 100.00
Master's Hat Repair ................................ 50.00

650.00

Total....................................................

$2,471.69

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM D. ARCHER, Chairman
GEORGE A . JURGENS

A . T . KIERSCH

DONALD M. STEWART, JR.

DONALD P. PITMAN

JOHN MENZIES

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence covers the fiscal
year 1968-1969.
Ed Siems, Grand Secretary. forwards to the Committee on Correspondence of the California Masonic Grand Lodge, all annual proceedings of Grand Lodges who publish their proceedings, including those of
the United States, as well as foreign jurisdictions, who are recognized
by the California Masonic Grand Lodge.
The reviews for many years have been restricted to the 49 Masonic
Jurisdictions of the United States, including the District of Columbia.
The State of Alaska is a member of the Jurisdiction of the State of
Washington and the State of Hawaii is a member, as you know, of the
State of California.

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

These proceedings contain a great deal of Masonic information
which is primarily of interest to the constituent Lodges of the Jurisdiction
publishing a given report, but it is also instructive so far as California
Masons are concerned in that it is informative to the members of our
Grand Lodge as to Masonic problems and developments in other
Masonic jurisdictions.

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, October 14, 1969

158

Various jurisdictions are making a sincere effort to build and solidify
the individual Mason's interest in Masonry in general.
We have at all times kept in mind the traditional function of the
Correspondence Committee, which is to inform the members of our
Grand Lodge as to what is being done in sister jurisdictions to further
the interests of Masonry. In this way they may be better informed and
prepared to reach intelligent opinions on Masonic matters.
Accordingly, the Committee has reviewed 49 annual reports of Masonic Jurisdictions in the United States, including the District of Columbia . Separate reports are not published for the States of Alaska and
Hawaii as these states are members of the Grand Jurisdictions of Washing ton and California respectively.
These reviews in turn are submitted to the Editorial staff of California
Freemason. While these reports may not measure up to what you expect
in reviews, yet we are constantly endeavoring to make them more readable, and to this end we solicit your suggestions.
We have for a number of years followed a uniform style disclosed
by the reviews published in the California Freemason in its quarterly
issues. Editorial comment is minimized and is placed in italics. All other
matter is printed without quotation marks, its sources being clearly
indicated.
Included in this report is an estimated budget for the ensuing Masonic year in the sum of $400.00. This sum includes disbursements of
the Committee; plus reimbursement for travel. hotel accommodations
and meals during Grand Lodge of the individual members of the
Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR., Chairman

c. s. BARRETT
FRED w. MORRIS
J. WILSON GETSINGER

DONALD THOMAS
DAVID A. FRISTEDT
CARL 0. HARVEY

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)
At 11 :35 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 1:30 p.m.

159

At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
This session was raised by Worshipful Charles A. Grossman, Master of
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380. The invocation was delivered by the
Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M. of California:
In submitting its annual report for the 1968-1969 Grand Lodge year,
the Committee on Lodge Financing wishes, first, to take note of the predominantly healthy condition of T emple properties throughout the
jurisdiction and, second, to suggest certain precautions resulting from
experience with those situations where financial difficulties are being
experienced.
The most rewarding aspect of this C ommittee's task, which involves
consultation with Lodges and Temple Associations on real estate matters, is the almost daily evidence of the strength of Masonry in California
and Hawaii. It is indeed a privilege, through the functioning of this Committee, to see Masons in action and to work with the builders of Masonic
Temples; to see Masons finding a way to acquire property and erect a
Masonic edifice without incurring a penny of debt; to see Lodges and
Temple Associations finding a way to build or improve a Temple through
the commitment of donated material, volunteer labor, and willing
pledges; and to see the devotion and pride of the brethren involved in
creating or improving a Masonic Temple.
There are, however, as in any large organization, certain areas of
concern. These involve situations where a Lodge or Temple Association
may have overbuilt and incurred burdensome and excessive debt; where
a Temple project may have been undertaken prematurely; where the
initial forecas t of operating income and expense may have been too
optimistic; where it has been considered necessary to resort to a heavy
dues increase to raise funds for increased rental or heavy loan payments
and taxes; and where physical depreciation and obsolescence are occurring with no financial reserves existing for replacements and repairs.
The Committee on Lodge Financing is admonished to withhold approval of applications it receives from Lodges or Temple Associations
where any of the foregoing conditions are likely to develop and it therefore urges the constituent Lodges and the Temple A ssociations to keep
the following recommendations in mind:
1. M ake every effort to avoid going into debt.
2. Defer a property acquisition or building project. if at all possible,
until a thorough and conservative feasibility study indicates that it is
prudent to proceed.

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3. Fund the depreciation reserves to cover repairs, replacements and
rehabilitation when needed.
4. Consider going together with another Lodge or Lodges where the
combined resources will make a Temple possible and where a single
Temple can serve a given community.
5. Keep insurance programs under constant review to provide full
and adequate protection.
6. Endeavor to keep the rental rates charged our three youth groups
at a minimum. While this Committee does not exercise control over rental
rates charged, it is aware of certain cases where it would appear that the
youth groups are being overcharged, and it has discussed this in a joint
meeting with the Committee on Youth Orders, sharing that Committee's
concern.
The formal actions taken by this Committe~ during the past year are
listed in the attached Appendix. In addition, Committee members have
met throughout the jurisdiction with Lodge and Temple Association
representatives when called upon for advice and counsel. Also. we are
endeavoring to develop an up~to~date inventory of Temple property
ownerships and locations in California and Hawaii, and will be seeking
the coopera tion of Lodges and Temple Associations in answering a
questionnaire now being prepared.

APPENDIX

Lastly, while acknowledging the help and cooperation of so many of
the brethren during the year, the Committee wishes to express special
appreciation to the following: to the Grand M aster, Most Worshipful
Robert A. Crigler, for his interest and strong support; to the Deputy
Grand Master, Right Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee, who has served
in a liaison capacity between the Committee and the elective Grand
Lodge line; to the Grand Secretary, Assistant Grand Secretary. and
their staff for cooperation and assistance; and to former Chairman Mark
A. Green for excellent help during a period of transition a year ago.
It has been a busy and rewarding year for the Committee member~
ship, and we hope and trust that our work has been acceptable. At this
time we request of the Grand Lodge an appropriation of $2,000.00 for
the operating expenses of the Committee on Lodge Financing during the
ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted.
J oHN F. P ORTER, Chairman

w. HONEYMAN

lvAN CRASE

WESLEY

BENJAMIN L. SUSMAN

HENRY MARTINI

KEITH V. JOHNSON

VICTOR R. OLTMANNS

Rov KNAPP

ALLYN W. BARROWS

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

\

161

LAUREL LODGE No. 245
WILLOWS MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted to expend approximately $2.951 .00 for instal~
lation of eleven aluminum frames and colored glass windows.
LOMPOC Looc'E No. 262
LoMPOC MASONIC BUILDING ASSOCIATION, I NC.

Consent granted to purchase a former Mormon Church for
$70,000.00 to be converted to a Masonic Temple and to enter into a
$25,000.00 real estate loan.
Consent granted to transfer $13,000.00 of Lodge funds to the
Temple Association in exchange for additional membership shares.
Consent granted to transfer $2,000.00 of Lodge funds to the
Temple Association in exchange for additional membership shares.
SANTA MONICA LooGE No. 307
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF S ANTA MONICA

C onsent granted to the T emple Association to borrow $20,000.00
from the Lodge to finance an elevator installation; the loan to be
secured by a note and deed of trust on the Temple property.
MONROVIA LooGE No. 308
MON ROVIA MASONIC BUILDING CORPORATION

Consent granted to transfer $1,300.00 of Lodge funds to the
Building Corporation in exchange for additional shares of stock;
the fu nds to be used to pay a portion of real property taxes.
TEMESCAL LooGE No. 314
T EMESCAL MASONIC TEMPLE AssocrATION

Consent granted to a five-year lease between a private landlord
and the Temple Association on the same terms and conditions as
the previous lease between the same la ndlord and the Lodge.
Consent granted to transfer $5.000.00 of Lodge funds to the
Temple Association in exchange for additional membership shares.
M c KINLEY LODGE No. 347
ALPHA LODGE No. 431
HA RBOR LODGE No. 502
MASO NIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF RI CHMOND, CALIFORNIA

Consent granted to enter into an exclusive listing agreement
with a realtor to obtain tenants for commercial space in the proposed
Temple building and to pay the leasing commission set forth therein.
Consent granted to enter into an architectural contract contain~
ing a fee not to exceed $32,000.00.

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Consent granted to purchase vacant property for a consideration of $110,000.00.
Consent granted to a $50,000.00 loan by Harbor Lodge No. 502
to the Temple Association, secured by a note and first deed of trust
on the property.
Consent granted to a $45,000.00 loan by the seller of the property to the Temple Association, secured by a note and second deed
of trust.
Consent granted to expend up to $20,000.00 on property improvements.
BRAWLEY LODGE No. 402
BRAWLEY MASONIC BUILDING AssocIATION, INc.

Consent granted to the installation of air conditioning in the
Temple at a cost not to exceed $7,140.00.
Consent granted to the transfer of up to $8,500.00 of Lodge
funds to the Temple Association in exchange for additional membership shares.
VAN Nuys LODGE No. 450
VAN NuYs MASONIC BUILDING Assoc1ATION

Consent granted to the transfer of $1,000.00 of Lodge funds to
the Building Association to complete payment for a new carpet.
JOPPA LODGE No. 508
JOPPA LODGE MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted to the formation of Joppa Lodge Masonic Temple Association.
Consent granted to the transfer of real property owned by the
Lodge to the Temple Association.
Consent granted to the purchase of adjacent real property for
a consideration not to exceed $1,500.00.
IONIC LODGE No. 520
IONIC BUILDING ASSOCIATION

Denial of consent to purchase adjacent vacant property for
$115,000.00.
EAST SAN DIEGO LODGE No. 561
EAST SAN DIEGO MASONIC TEMPLE CORPORATION

Consent granted to the purchase of vacant land for a Temple
site and to a loan of $45,000.00 by the Lodge to the Temple Association for this purpose.
Consent granted to the establishment of the E ast San Diego
Masonic Temple Trust Fund.
Consent granted to the expenditure of $5,900.00 for street improvements.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

CHATEAU THIERRY LoDGE No. 569
CASTRO VALLEY MASO NIC TEMP LE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted to the acquisition of a 25% interest in Castro
Valley Masonic Temple Association by Chateau Thierry Lodge
No. 569 for a consideration valued at $25,000.00.
As a portion of the aforesaid consideration, consent granted to
the retirement of an existing loan by the Lodge to the Temple Association having a balance of approximately $21 ,000.00 plus accrued
interest.
GRANADA LODGE No. 608
GRANADA MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted to expend $10,000.00 for the installation of air
conditioning.
Consent granted to the transfer of $4,200.00 of Lodge funds
to the Temple Association in exchange for additional membership
shares and to a $4,000.00 loan by the Lodge to the Temple Association.
B1G BEAR LODGE No. 617
B1G BEAR MASONIC TEMPLE A ssoc1ATION

Consent granted to the purchase of previously leased land for a
consideration of $11 ,900.00.
Consent granted to a loan of $11 ,900.00 by one or more of the
brethren to the Temple Association.
RIVERSIDE LoDGE No. 635
RIVERSIDE MASONIC BmLDING AssocIATION

Consent granted to expend approximately $6,000.00 for necessary work on the parking area and on the air conditioning unit.
Consent granted to transfer $6,000.00 of Lodge funds to the
Building Association in exchange for additional membership shares.
Consent granted to the purchase by the Lodge of adjacent property for a consideration not to exceed $8,500.00 plus escrow and
surveyor's costs.
SAN CLEMENTE LoDGE No. 671
SAN CLEMENTE MASONIC TEMPLE Asso cIATION

Consent granted to enter into a contract to erec t a Masonic
Temple at a cost not to exceed $4,000.00 for plans and $75,000.00
for the building. This consent followed a denial of a previous request.
VISTA LODGE No. 687
VISTA M ASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION

Consent granted to purchase adjacent vacant land for a consideration of approximately $14,000.00 and to enter into a real estate
loan in the amount of $8,000.00.

161

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

R1M op THE WORLD LoDGE No. 711
RrM OP THE WoRLD MAsoN1c TEMPLE Assoc1ATJON

Consent granted to acquire land previously leased from the U . S.
Forestry Service at a purchase price of $3,500.00.
EsTERO LODGE No. 719
EsTERO MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1ATION

Consent granted to commence construction of a Masonic Temple based on a cost estimate of approximately $21,000.00, commitments of volunteer labor, pledged donations, and two personal loans
of $5,000.00 each from individual brethren.
WESTMINSTER LODGE No. 787
WESTMINSTER MASONIC TEMPLE Asso c 1ATION

Consent granted to transfer $3,800.00 of Lodge funds to the
T emple Association in exchange for additional membership shares
fo1 the purpose of paying the balance due on property being purchased.
OAK P LAINS LoDGE No. 789
OAK PLAINS MAsoN1c BmLDING Assoc1AT!ON

Consent granted to expend up to $5,000.00 for the improvement
of dining hall facilities.
Consent granted to the transfer of Sl ,000.00 of Lodge funds
to the Building Association in exchange for additional membership
shares.
MORENO VALLEY LODGE No. 804
KING SoLOMON's TEMPLE Assoc1ATION OF MORENO VALLEY

Consent granted to form King Solomon's T emple Association of
Moreno Valley.
BoRON LODGE No. 822
BoRON MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1ATION

Consent granted to construct an addition to the Temple at an
estimated cost of $11, 713.90.

REPORT OF DIRECTORS
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & AM. of California:
California Masonic Foundation was organized a nd is now in existence as a charitable. non-profit corporation, the date of incorporation
having been March 5, 1969. Tax exemption has been granted to the
Foundation by both the Federal and State Governments.
The Board of Directors, which is designated as the Board of Trus-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

165

tees, consists of 15 persons whose na mes are attached to this report and
will be available for the inspection of any Brother desiring to do so. In
choosing the members of the Board of Trustees, attention has been given
to as wide a geographical distribution of the members as is practicable so
tha t each a rea under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge will have
representation.
The primary purposes for which the corporation is organized are
to receive gifts, devises, bequests, and contributions o f every kind and
nature and to hold, use. administer and disburse the same in a manner
not in conflict with the laws , rules, and regulations of Grand Lodge for
all phases of education , including scientific research.
The By-Laws require that the corporation's annual meeting be held
within thirty ( 30) days of the close of each annual communication of
Grand Lodge for the purposes. primarily, of receiving the nominations
of the Grand Master to fill vacancies on the Board of Trustees. to elect
them as Trustees, and to adopt the budget for the ensuing year as approved by Grand Lodge. The terms of office of the Trustees are staggered-5 to serve I year; 5 for 2 years; and 5 for 3 years.
An annual report in detail and a proposed budget for the ensuing
year are required to be fi led with Grand Lodge in sufficient time to be
considered at the Annual Communication. The offices, books. and operations of the corporation are open to the inspection of the Grand Master
or those designated to act for him at all convenient times.
Copies of the Articles of Incorporation and the By-Laws are available for inspection in the Office of the Grand Secretary.
Since the formation of the corporation, there have been two ( 2)
meetings of the entire Board of Trustees, and there have been numerous
meetings of various committees appointed by the Board. Standing committees have been established by the By-Laws as follows :
(a) Executive Committee
( b) Budget and Finance Committee
( c) Committee on Qualifications and Worthiness
( d) Committee on Foundation Planning
In addition thereto, the President, with the advice and consent of
the Grand Master, is given power to appoint any other committees
deemed necessary or advisable, and each committee may appoint subcommittees or consultants at the committee's direction. Under this section , a committee on Public Rela tions has been appointed with Brother
Melvin A. P ixley as Chairman.
The original officers of the corporation were as follows: President,
Eugene S. Hopp; Vice-President, John S. Hunt; Treasurer, Lyle E .
Patton; Secretary. Herbert W. Smith.
The assets of this corporation now consist principally of the following: ( 1 ) The proceeds derived from the sale of the Masonic Clubhouse

166

167

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

at the Berkeley campus of the University of California; (2) the
Masonic Clubhouse at the U.C.L.A. ·campus, title to which has been
deeded to this corporation and will be so held pending sale of the property. Until sold, this will be a continued source of expense with no income being derived therefrom. It is listed for sale, but no satisfactory
offers have as yet been received. ( 3) In addition to the foregoing, all
securities formerly held by the Clubhouse trustees have been transferred to the F oundation.
Balance sheet of the Foundation shows as of June 30, 1969, there
are assets of $337.888. There are no liabilities against the Foundation.
Profit and loss statement for the fiscal year closing June 30, 1969
shows income of $14,606.00, all derived from interest and dividends.
Investment policy is supervised by Grand Lodge.

with experts in the field of scholarships. The principal points of said
report are as follows:
( 1) To institute one or more scholarship programs immediately in
geographical areas now being determined.
( 2) Said scholarships are to be funded from income and other
sources, including gifts, bequests, and devises.
( 3) These programs will be implemented through publicity, and the
enthusiastic participation of all lodges in the jurisdiction of this Grand
Lodge. Through these efforts, it is anticipated that substantial benefits
will accrue to Masonic families.
The Committee on Foundation Planning
The Chairman of this committee is Brother Carl B. Munck. Past
President of the Board of Education, Oakland. Other members are:
Brother Carl H . Allen, Judge of the Superior Court. San Francisco;
Brother Robert Burns, President, University of the Pacific, Stockton;
Brother Pete B. Florio, member of the faculty. Trade Tech. College;
Brother Phillip Reiner. Past President Board of Education, Santa Maria ,
and Past Grand Master Laurence E . Day ton of Oakland.
The duties of this committee are to supervise and plan the operations
of the corporation; to study procedures and recommend changes where
needed and to serve as a general advisory committee to the Board, the
officers. and the Grand Master.
Briefly. the report and recommendations of this committee are as
follows:
( 1 ) To recomm~nd a program not already being funded from other
sources.
( 2) That it should be a system of grants, not loans.
( 3) Grants should be made to qualified students without regard to
race. color. or creed.
( 4) That a limited program be commenced as soon as feasible and
expanded as funds are available.
( 5) That grants be made to high school graduates who enroll in
colleges, but their selection may be made while they are sophomores or
juniors in high school.

COMMITTEE REPORTS

Budget and Finance Committee
In compliance with the requirements of the By- Laws, the report of
this committee is submitted as follows:
The Chairman of the committee is Brother Fred B. Hack. Vice-President and Trust Officer of Wells Fargo Bank in San Francisco. The
members of the committee in addition to Brother Hack a re Brother Uno
E. Nordeen and Brother Lyle E. Patton, both of San Francisco. The
committee has submitted a pro forma expense budget, copy of which is
attached , showing estimated expenses totalling $30,010, of which $15,260
is the estimated cost of taxes. insurance, and upkeep and maintenance of
the U.C.L.A. Clubhouse, and $14,750 is the estimated cost of operations
of the Foundation, which includes office expense and travel and miscellaneous expense of committee members and directors, but does not include any funds for scholarships or other cha ritable purpose for which
the Foundation was formed .
In 1967, at the annual communication, Grand Lodge authorized and
approved the financing of the Foundation in the sum of $50.000 per year
(p. 149. 1967 Proceedings), said funds to be used to support the needs
of this program, both charitable and operational. Needless to say, it is
the hope and plan of the Trustees of the Foundation that in the not-toodistant future, its program will become completely self-supporting.
Committee on Qualifications and Worthiness
The Chairman of this committee is Brother Herbert W. Smith, Coordinator of Volunteer Services for the U .C.L.A. Alumni Development
Center. Other members o f the committee are : The Reverend Max L.
Christenson of San Francisco, Brother Elvin C. Drake of Santa Monica,
Brother Robert L. Matheison of Hayward, a nd Brother Garey B. Weibel
of Chico. This committee has had numerous meetings, and has consulted

Executive Committee
The Chairman of this committee is Past Grand Master Eugene S.
Hopp. Other members are Brother Paul S. Boren of Oakland, and
Brother Lyle E. Patton of San Francisco.
This committee has not made a special report since its functions touch
upon the work of all officers and committees.
Public Relations Committee
This committee has been appointed with Brother Melvin A . Pixley as

168

169

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chairman. Except for preliminary study of Problems in this area, its
work has not yet begun pending implementation of other programs.
However, a brief report of its activities to date is contained in the last
issue of the California Freemason.

image are not planning for or working toward a college education. Our
purpose would be to encourage. support and motivate the students to
reach their potential through our demonstrated fa ith in them by establishing a fund for their college education.
Our Scholars hip Committee would select each year, probably in the
Spring, a Sophomore student to whose credit we would allocate $100.
To that amount we would add $200 for the Junior year and $300 for the
Senior year, provided the student has demonstrated scholarship achievement. The accumulated grant availab le to the student would total $600
maximum , to be used to supplement th eir educational cost upon matriculation in an accredited college or university.
Students will be accepted for the program based upon their potential
to succeed in college and need for financial assistance. F inal recommendation and selection will be the responsibility of the Chico State College
Committee on Scholarships and Student F inan cial Aid.
Factors to consider when recommending students:
1. Applicant is a member of a family with limited .financial means.
2. Applicant must be in his Sophomore year of high school.
3. Applicant has been recommended by high school faculty or appropriate community agency.
4. Applicant is making "normal progress" in academic achievement.
The program will operate through ten (I 0) geographical areas and
their respective district divisions. Each district is responsible for disseminating information to all public an d private high schools, as well as
recommending potential scholarship recipients from their districts.
The area chairmen, as well as other members of the executive committee, are selected by the President. In turn, each area chairman selects
his own district chairman.
The area chosen for the initial pilot program is the North Sacramento
area, consisting of forty-seven ( 4 7) high schools. An additional pilot
program is planned of comparable size in Southern California if additional fundi ng is available.
The Committee is recommending a budget of $10.000.00 to implement each phase of the pilot program above a nd beyond minimal anticipated adminis trative costs.
Trusting this meets with your approval.

CON CLUSION

The programs of this Foundation are necessarily in a preliminary
stage where further planning and experimentation a re required. It is
anticipa ted that during the ensuing year, with additional experience behind us, we shall be able to operate with greater efficiency. The entire
Board of Trustees are enthusiastic a nd have given of their time and
ad.vice where :ieede~ without hesita.tion. We firmly believe that one day
this F oundation will become an important adjunct to Grand Lodge
through which California Masonry will grow and prosper.
Two sad notes s hould receive comment. One is the untimely death
of Past Grand Master Edgar V . Stewart, Jr. H e was a member of our
Board, and a most valued one. We shall miss him. Brother Carl B.
Munck was elected to fill this vacancy.
The other is the most distressing and tragic death of Mrs. Eugene S.
Hopp, wife of our President, Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp. We
were all greatly saddened by this occurrence and express our deepest
sympathy to Brother Hopp in his hour of sorrow.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT W . SMITH, S ecretary
JoHN S. HUNT, V ice-President
For the Board
Eu GENES. HoPP, President
Jo1rn S. HuNT

EVERETT HOUS ER

HERBERT SMITH

PETE B. F LORIO

LYLE E. PATTON

MELVIN A. PIXLEY

FREDERI CK BoLTE

PAUL

JOHN M. GORDON

DUANE

s. BOREN
w. WHEELER

MA RK A. GREEN

FRED HACK

RALP H FENSTER

CARL B . MuNCK

Referred to Committee on F inance. (Budget allocation)
REPORT OF THE CALIFORNIA MASONIC
FOUNDATION COMMITTEE ON QUALIFICATION S
AND WORTHINESS REGARDING SCHOLARSHIPS
T~e pu~pos~ of the California M asonic Founda tion Scholarship Progra m 1s to identify students at the Sophomore level in High School from
families of limited .financial means who are capable of success in college
but who, for reasons of their own and/or their family's goals and self-

CALIFORNIA MASONIC F O UNDATION

Committee on Qualifications and W orthiness

170

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON RECOG NITION
OF FOREIG N GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
During the year, your Committe e has carefully studied the matters
of extern~) !"fasonic import which have come to its attention . and will
now submit its report, suggestion s and recommen dations.
As a matter of informatio n, we have been alerted to the formation
of three so-called Gra nd LodHes: one, in the State of Rio Grande do
~ul, by the name of Grande Oriente de Rio Grande do Sul; another.
m Ve~ezuela; and a third , in Switzerlan d calling itself the Grand Lodge
de .Suisse. All of these jurisdictio ns have regular Grand Lodges with
which we are on terms of amity and we express to them our regret at
the unwarran ted usurpation of their rights.
CU~A: No report of this Committee, my Brethren, would be compl:te without a reference to the M asonic affairs in our unhappy island
neighbor, Cuba. When Grand Master Tarajano fled from Cuba in 1960
the G.rand Lodge of Florida gave him asylum and permitted him t~
establish a Grand Lodge of Cuba in Exile. This group was undoubted ly
of gre~t. help to refugee Masons in many ways, not the least of which
was giving to those who could prove themselves entitled, certificates of
avouchme nt, .a sort of Masonic passport. These certificates were generally recogn~zed by us and our sister Grand Lodges as permitting the
holder the privilege of visitation and recognitio n as a Freemaso n.
Howe.ver. the regular Grand Lodge in Havana was not suppresse d
or P.roscr1bed or forced undergrou nd or into exile, and we continued
albeit dubi~usly, in bonds of fraternal amity with it. Their solution t~
Gne of their problems was the appointme nt of a distinguis hed Past
rand Master, Carlos M. Pineiro y del Cueto, who had 'become Professor of La:-' at lnterameri can University in Puerto Rico, as the Grand
Repres~ntat1v.e for External Affairs of the Grand Lodge, so all the
Masonic affairs of the exiled Brothers could be authorized ' regulated
and authentica ted by him.
Lo On December 31. 1966. Grand M aster Tarajano called the Grand
dge of Cuba in Exile into permanen t recess, deposited the Grand
Seal. and other Grand Lodge possession s with the Grand Lodge of
Florida. and he, himself. affiliated with Miami Temple Lodge No. 247.
~ardly four months passed before other members of this group
~eactivat~d the Gran~ ~dge and their officers now, as they put it,
wo~I~. like to normalize its relationsh ip with the Grand Lodge of Califor~ia. Regardles s of whether this group is acting out of high patriotic
motives or not, such a Grand Lodge is an anomaly and should not b e
countenan ced.
PARAGU AY: A communic ation has been received from the Grand

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

171

Lodge Symbolica del Paraguay, signed by Grand Master Ricardo
Frankel, in which he states that his Gra nd Lodge is very much concerned and greatly interested in intensifyin g their fraternal relations
with other Grand Lodges, and especially with the Grand Lodge of
California .
The Grand Lodge of Paraguay at present consists of five Lodges.
It meets our T ests for Recognitio n under the following principles:
It is an independe nt, self-gover ning. responsibl e organization, with
entirely undispute d and exclusive dogmatic and administra tive authority
over the Symbolic Lodges within its jurisdiction, who meet regularly
under the fundamen tal principles of the Three Lights, the Bible and
the Square and Compass .
It makes M asons of men only.
It requires conformit y and adherence to the acknowled gment and
belief of God, the Father of all men; secrecy; the Symbolism of Operative Masonry; the division of Symbolic M asonry into the three degrees;
and the Legend of the Third Degree.
Its dominant purposes are charitable, benevolen t, education al and
for the developm ent of a sincere reverence for God as Father of all
men; and it excludes controvers ial politics and sectarian religion from
all activities under its auspices.
It occupies exclusively its territorial jurisdiction, and does not presume to extend into or presume to establish Lodges in a territory occu~
pied by a lawful Grand Lodge.
The Grand Lodge of Paraguay has been recognized by the Grand
Lodge of Texas , the G€and Lodge of New York. the Grand Lodge of
Scotland; and since 1910 by the United Grand Lodge of England, together with many distinguis hed Grand Lodges around the world.
I therefore move that the Grand Lodge Symbolica del Paraguay .
whose seat is in the City of Asuncion, be recognized by the Grand
Lodge of California .
Since in the course of this report, your Committe e will recommen d
the recognitio n of three Grand Lodges in Brazil. we would now like
to direct the attention of Gra nd Lodge to a considerat ion of the history
of Masonry in that country.
It is believed that the first Masonic Lodge was establishe d in Pernambuco in 1796. and others followed, but all had a brief existence.
The Grand Orient of Brazil was founded May 28, 1822, and then,
immediate ly thereafter, ensued one of the strangest and most puzzling
events in Masonic history. Dom Pedro, soon to be Emperor of Brazil,
was initiated August 2, 1822; and at a meeting of the Grand Orient the
following month was elected Grand Master of the Grand Orient and
duly installed on Septembe r 14, 1822. Six weeks later, on the 27th of
October, the Emperor, in his capacity as Grand Master, sent a message
to the Senior Grand Warden, who was presiding over a regular meeting

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the Grand Orient, ordering all work of the Grand Orient suspended,
as well as the work of its constituent Lodges. This was followed by
severe persecution of the Craft and Brethren-and Masonry was
driven underground until Dom Pedro abdicated. In 1832, ten years
later, the Grand O rient was reestablished but endured years of schisms
and factionalism. By 1883. however, we can say that Brazilian Masonry
was united in the Grand Orient and the Supreme Council. Contrary to
what we usually find when these two powers are in competition, the
Grand Orient controlled the Supreme Council and the Grand Master
became almost automatically the Sovereign Grand Commander.
In an attempt to restore the independence of the Supreme Council,
Grand Commander Mario Bhering. in 1925. renounced his position as
Grand Master and a Treaty was signed providing for the independent
status of each power. A succeeding Grand Master, Octavio Kelly by
name, unilaterally abrogated this Treaty and (at a General Assembly
of the Rite) insisted upon, and was. installed as Grand Commander
of the Supreme Council. The majority of the Supreme Council. led by
the legitimate Grand Commander, Mario Bhering, declared the Treaty
null and void, refused to recognize Grand Master Kelly as Grand Commander and moved the headquarters of the Supreme Council away
from the premises it had formerly shared with the Grand Orient.
Grand Commander Bhering then issued an edict authorizing the
Lodges. which held warrants or charters from the Supreme Council
(though holding obedience to the Grand Orient). to form themselves
into Grand Lodges. in accordance with universally recognized Masonic
principles.
This, then, my Brethren. was the origin and reason for the creation
of the State Grand Jurisdictions, of which there are now 19. and of
these we presently recognize 14.
The Grand Orient continued to function, and is numerically superior in the number of Lodges and in membership. It also has the respectability of recognition by the United Grand Lodge of England. The
Grand Lodges of the United States. however, have transferred recognition to the State Grand Lodge.
Those of you who have glanced over the past reports of this Committee will remember how difficult it has been to obtain information
from the Grand Lodges of Latin America who have applied for recognition, as to their position in respect to the Tests of Recognition which
this Grand Lodge adopted. These Tests for extending fraternal recognition to other Grand Bodies are to be found in the following Proceedings : 1913, at page 163; 1918. at page 159: 1948, at page 250:
and 1953, at page 216. At last, however, through the good offices of
the Commission on Information for Recognition of the Grand Masters'
Conference. and from information gleaned from reliable sources in
Brazil, your Committee is able to make the following recommendations:

BRASILIA : This Grand Lodge was erected in the Federal District,
formerly part of the State of Goias. It is in effect a successor to the
Grand Lodge which had jurisdiction of the Federal District when it
was located in the City of Rio de Janeiro, and which we now recognize
as the Grand Lodge of Guanabara. A Grand Lodge in this new territory. working closely to government circles, was grea tly desired by the
State Grand Lodges, and was recognized immediately by them. The
Grand Lodge of Goias chartered and consecrated the Grand Lodge
of Brasilia on February 16. 1963. It has 7 Lodges in its jurisdiction
which comprises only the City of Brasilia. We are informed it works
according to the Ancient Landmarks and in strict conformity to the
Tenets of regular Freemasonry.
We. therefore, move that the Serenissima Grande Loja Symbolica
de Brasilia be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.
GOIAS : An application for the establishment of friendly relations
and mutual recognition has been received from the Grand Lodge of
th e State of Goias, signed by their Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations, Brother Roland Martin. The State of Goias is bounded by jurisdictions we recognize: Para to the North, Matto Grosso to the West,
Minas Gerais to the South and Bahia to the East. Information from
Brethren in Sao Paulo and from the Commission on Information for
Recognition confirm that this Grand Lodge can be regarded as meeting
our Tests for Recognition.
We, therefore. move that the Grande Loja Maconica do Estado de
Goias, whose address is Caixa Postal 332. Goiania, Estado de Goias,
Brazil. be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.
PERNAMBUCO: As an example of the time involved in corresponding with our Brethren in South America. may I tell you that we
first received a request for recognition from the Grand Lodge of Perna mbuco on May 26. 1959. Both my predecessors as Chairmen o f this
Committee, Past G rand M asters John Moore and Phil Myers, in addition to myself, have sought factual informa tion from this Grand Lodge;
and, finally. we have enough knowledge to justify recommending recognition.
The State of Pernambuco is small for a Brazilian state. It stretches
along the Atlantic Seaboard. on the hump of South America, and states
whose Grand Lodges we recognize border it as follows: Ceara to the
North, Piaui to the West and Bahia to the South. It has been recognized by 10 American Grand Lodges and by all of its sister State Grand
Lodges in Bra zil. It is a leader in inter-Brazilian affairs and we believe
it to be regular in all respects.
We, therefore, move that the Grande Loja de Pernambuco, whose
address is Caixa Postal I 415, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil, be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.

173

17i

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IRAN: As proof of the ubiquity of Freemasonry, we will now turn
our attention from South America to Asia.
Regular Freemasonry has existed in Iran since the erection in 1918
of Lodge Light No. 1191 , of the Scottish Constitution. There are presently 27 Lodges in Iran, 14 chartered by the Grand Lodge of Scotland,
1O by the National Grand Lodge of France and 3 by the United Grand
Lodges of Germany.
Probably as a result of the increasing sense of nationalism in the
world, and particularly in Asia, the Shah of Iran let it be known that
the creation of the Grand Lodge of Iran would have his royal favor.
The Masonic membership in that country has been of the highest caliber, and the Grand Master. who is said to have been personally chosen
by the Shah, is the Most Worshipful Jafar Sharif Emami, President
of the Senate of Iran.
On March 1, 1969, the ceremonies of the Consecration and Erection
of the Grand Lodge, and installation of the Grnnd Master, were carried
out by the Grand Master Mason of Scotland, the Grand Master of the
National Grand Lodge of France and the Grand M aster of the United
Grand Lodges of Germany. Also in attendance was the Assistant Grand
Master of the United Grand Lodge of England.
This Grand Lodge has responded correctly to our Tests, and with
its distinguished sponsorship as a further recommendation, we move
that the Grand Lodge of Iran, located in the City of Tehran, be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.

Thursday nights when Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge No. 814 holds its
meetings.
As of Wednesday. Sept. 24, 1969. I am pleased to announce that
we have been able to secure the services of a very dedicated MasonBrother Homer "Jack" Glick, who is the Tiler of Moneta Lodge No.
405 and is also Coach for the Lodge in all three degrees. The Committee
is pleased to announce that the visiting hours of the Temple have been
changed to conform to the hours that the State of California conducts
tours around the Old Plaza, namely 9:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. on Thursday. Friday and Saturday. Tours commence at 10:00 a.m., 11 :00 a.m.
and 12 noon and, with this arranllement, l am sure more people will
become acquainted with old time Masonry in Los Angeles and we hope
to make them desirous of becoming Masons. It is the only kind of "advertising" we can really do.
The budget allocated in the past will be sufficient until the final completion of the complex. After that time it wilt be necessary to have a full
time guide since all buildings wilt be open to the public six days a week. I
again ur(:le all Masons to visit the old Temple in downtown Los Angeles at 416Yz North Main Street. It would be a revelation to all as the
hallowed halls of this old Temple would inspire all Masons with a reverence and awe of the Masonic days of yore.
Respectfully submitted,
BENJAMIN M. WEISS, Chairman
HERBERT HARGRAVE, JR.
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY, JR., Chairman
J. NEIL HANSON

HENRY F. PUTHOFF, JR.

Adopted. (NOTE: By separate resolutions Grand Lodge took favorable action to recognize the following:
1. Grand Lodge Symbolica del Paraguay, A suncion, Paraguay.
2. Serenissima Grande Loja Symbolica de Brasilia, Brasilia, Brazil.
3. Grande Loja Maconica do Estado de Goias, Goiania, Brazil.
4. Grande Loja de Pernambuco, Recife, Brazil.
5. Grand Lodge of Ira n, Tehra n, Iran. )

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON OLD MASONIC HALL
,.
IN LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of California:
This Committee is sad to report of the passing of Brother Wray
Gibson, who has been the caretaker, custodian and guide for the Temple since its inception. Due to the illness and then the death of Brother
Gibson, the Temple has been closed to visitors, only being open on

GRAND ORATION
"LET THERE BE LIGHT"
Grand Orator

WILLIAM J. WILLIAMS.

Most Worshipful Sir, Brother Grand Lodge Officers, Distinguished
Guests, My Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
This morning I am at once filled with pride and humility; proud of
being a member of our great Fraternity. humble in the knowledge and
memory of the great men of Masonry that have addressed you in previous communications as your Grand Orator.
This past year has been, for me, filled with inspiration as we have
participated in Masonic functions and ceremonies the length and breadth
of our Grand Jurisdiction and the courtesies and expressions of brotherly love will never be forgotten.
The greatest satisfaction has been to become well acquainted with
my brother officers of the Gra nd Lodge, and most particularly with our
Grand Master, the Most Worshipful Robert Arthur Crigler. He is a
pillar of strength when strength is so needed, a man of great dignity

176

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

and moral courage at a time when we seek men of these qualifications,
a man of personal warmth and great devotion to our Fraternity who
has exemplified the teachings and principles of Masonry in his constant
travels, his almost unbelievable number of meetings with his Brethren
in Freemasonry, and in his daily life. It has been truly. Most Worshipful
Sir, a great inspiration to serve as one of your Grand Lodge Officers
and I shall be eternally grateful for this opportunity.
LET THERE BE LIGHT!
"In the beginning. God created the heaven and the earth, and the
earth was without form and void, and darkness was upon the face of
the deep, and the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and
God said, 'Let there be light,' and there was light." This passage from
the Bible. the first verse in the Book of Genesis, the Story of Creation,
is precious to all who revere the Bible, but particularly our Brethren in
Freemasonry. for it was in response to this command. " Let there be
light,'' that they first saw the Light by which Masons work.
From time immemorial. Masons, ancient and modern, have obeyed
this august command and have labored in bringing Light to the world,
much of which is still in darkness, devoid of the Light of Brotherly Love,
Relief. and Truth.
We cannot trace our Masonic heritage with exact definition to the
ancient builders of the pyramids. temples. and other great works of
antiquity, but we do know they used the same tools, the plumb, square
and level, for their operative work that we use today. and there is much
to indicate that these tools were also used to teach valuable lessons in
morality. life, and conduct, as we speculative Masons do at the present
time.
We can, however, start tracing our history in the Tenth Century
in the guilds of operative Masonry and in their building of the great

cathedrals of Europe. places of worship and the universities. the seats
of learning, and bringing to the world the great Lights of Religion and
Education. How well our ancient Brethren performed their tasks is selfevident in viewing these magnificent structures today. They wrought
not only in stone and timbers, but they wrought in the building of men,
and each succeeding generation has advanced the principles of Masonry.
Coincidentally with the labors of our ancient operative Brethren, the
Crusaders were, as they saw the truth, bringing the Light of Religion
to those areas of darkness. They carried the banners of the Christian
Religion and practiced the principles of our ancient Craft. In the walled
City of Rhodes, 800 years ago. the Knights of St. John built a great
monument to Brotherly Love, one of the first edifices for the relief of
human suffering, a hospital that still stands, tending the needs of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

177

dtizens of Rhodes today. two hundred years later. the Knights of St.
John moved to the Island of Malta and adopted the name of their new
home and. as the Knights of Malta, continued their charitable and religious activities. Their counterparts on the continent, The Order of
Knights Templar, because of their role in bringing Light to their less
fortunate Brethren, earned the fear a nd enmity of the despotic spiritual
and temporal rulers of their time a nd their Order was decimated by the
horrors of the Inquisition and their last Grand Master, Jacques DeMolay, was burned at the stake. These names, the Knights of St. John,
the Knights of Malta, the Knights T emplar and DeMolay are revered
in Masonry today.
Over eight hundred years ago the barons stood before King John
on the fields of Runnymede with their demand that he sign the Magna
Carta, guaranteeing those rights to the people that have become the
basis for democracy since that time and so treasured throughout the
free world. There is little doubt that our Brethren of that day were in
the vanguard of those seeking for themselves and their fellowmen the
blessings of justice, equality. and freedom from oppression.
From our rich Masonic heritage, it was only natural that with the
formation of the Grand Lodge of England two hundred and fi fty-two
years ago that M asonry became a dominant force in the colonies and
that our early Masonic leaders were also the leaders, politically and
economically, in the birth and development of our country. We have
read of the relationship of St. Andrews Lodge and the Boston Tea Party,
where, in its minute book, only the large letter "T" appears for that
night's meeting. We 'know of its prominent members. P aul Revere and
John Hancock, and history is replete with the leaders hip provided by
those great Masons, Washington. Franklin, Madison. and scores of
others for whom Masonry is justly proud.
In the formation of the Constitution, one meets with the theory that
government not only derives its power from the people, but that it is
designed to protect the people from dictators and their greed. For the
first time we find the theory that leadership is elected from the people,
that while leaders should be followed faithfully and earnestly by the
members, the leaders would soon return to the ranks to serve as a common member with their brethren. Where, in the political or religious
thinking of that time, can that idea be found? Certainly not in English
or Scotch politics, although they were very liberal compared with the
rest of Europe. Neither can it be found in the Anglican, Congregational.
Presbyte rian or Methodist creeds, as they were then understood-and
those were the four predominating religions in the colonies. Neither the
Declaration of Independence nor the Constitution was based on credal
concepts, but upon the broader concept o f a Divine Designer, Creator
and Upholder of the U niverse, much broader than the creeds of that
day. Where, in the political and religious thinking of that period, can

179

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

you find a declaration for the separation of church and state, or a declaration in favor of the free exercise of religions? It is not found in our
Scotch background, for they believed in their own established church;
not in our English origins, for in most colonies they were strongly for
the established Church of England; not even can that theory be found
in Puritan New England, for they established a strict theocracy and
established the Congregational Church as the church of the several colonies. These ideas can be found in none of the dogmatic religions or
political philosophies of that day.

"To focus the attention of the Craft on existing conditions, I. as
Grand Master of Masons in the Jurisdiction of California, do now proclaim the week commencing Monday, September 27th, 1920, as 'Public
Schools Week' in the Masonic Lodges in this Jurisdiction; and I do earnestly request that, during that week, in every Lodge in this Jurisdiction,
some phase of the questions affecting the Public Schools be brought to
the attention of the members present by speakers appointed for that
purpose."
As is true of all great essays or proclamations, this one, too, is ageless. It is, with but the change of one word, "urban." instead of "rural,"
the exact statement of the condition of our Public Schools today. Today,
as then, needed bond issues are being defeated by the traditional enemies
of our Public School System, but more particularly by an apathetic public; now, as then, Boards of Trustees are seeking the best qualified men
and women of the community for members and often are disappointed
in their efforts; today, as then, teachers' salaries are too often below
that of common labor and today, as then, our children, the most precious
product of our society, are being taught by many teachers of less-thanthe-needed excellence, because many desirable candidates for the teaching profession are being attracted by more lucrative offers in commerce
and industry. Yes, my Brethren, we need to rededicate ourselves and
r~double ~ur efforts in behalf of our public schools, that they may contmue to bring to our people the great Light of Education.
Those cherished institutions of a free and democratic society-a
stable .a nd respons~ble system of government guaranteeing equal opportunity for all; a system of free public education; those fundamental
inalienable rights, the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and of
th: press, the prohibition of deprivation of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law-are being threatened today as never before
in the history of our country. Never has our entire system of government
been so viciously attacked, never has our entire educational system been
threatened by such diverse elements from every economic and educational level. Classes are being closed, teachers beaten and abused, buildings damaged and destroyed. Demands are being made for reforms in
our ~ystems of education and government by individuals and groups
ranging from well-meaning, interested citizens to militants, revolutionaries, and anarchists who would destroy that which we have been centuries building.
It. is incumbent upon us, as Masons and good citizens, to closely
e~amme and analyze all of our public institutions in the light of our
times. Are they this day serving the needs of our people in the best
possible manner? Are reforms needed, and, if so, what are they? Surely
no documents or institutions or regulations conceived in the minds of
men are eternal. One of the best examples is the numerous resolutions
presented each year to this Grand Lodge, containing in them, in the

178

Where, then, in the political or religous thinking of that time can
those ideas be found? Only in the great Light of the teachings and practices of Freemasonry. As we delve deeply into our country's early history we realize that Masonry was the great unifying force, the catalyst
that welded the colonies with their diverse economics, political philophophies, predominant religions, and their geographical ba rriers, into one.
With this glorious heritage down through all ages, we, as Masons,
clearly recognize our responsibilities as citizens in maintaining for all
the people those principles of freedom, equality of opportunity and justice, for which our early brethren worked, and lived, and died, that they
might pass on to future generations a brighter and better world.
As Masonry has espoused these principles, it has recognized that
they can only be attained and assured by an educated and enlightened
citizenry. From the first public schools in the colonies in the mid sixteen
hundreds and the founding of our first public high school by that outstanding Mason, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania Benjamin Franklin, Masonry has been the leader in bringing
the great Light of Education to our country. California Masonry has
achieved nationwide, and yes , even worldwide recognition, in establishing Public Schools W eek in California in 1920. Nearly fifty years ago
Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams made the following proclamation, and I quote in part:
''As Masons, we unqualifiedly subscribe to the belief that an educated
and enlightened citizenship is the first great care of a progressive State;
and that upon our Public Schools depend the hope for the perpetuity
of a free and untrammeled democracy.
"The professions we make as Masons demand that as citizens of the
Commonwealth we take an active and intelligent interest in all matters
affecting our Public Schools.
"A crisis is now confronting the Public Schools System in America.
There is a dearth of competent teachers, schools are being dosed, children, particularly in the rural communities, are being denied the education to which they are entitled, and there is apparently a deplorable
apathy concerning remedial measures which have been proposed.

180

PROCEED INGS OF THE

minds of the petitioni ng Brethren , needed changes in our statutes and
regulatio ns. As we move into this Space Age, our needs of educatio n,
governm ent, and economic systems must be geared to fill these needs.
If reforms are needed, let us, as responsib le citizens. be the ones in a
timely and lawful manner, that bring about these changes; not wait until
these needed changes are forced upon us by riots. protests, and violence
by unlawful elements and illegal means. Organiza tions in every area of
our society, who would overthro w all the things we hold sacred, are
ceaseless ly striving to find causes and areas where reforms are needed,
then to espouse these needed reforms to give an aura of credibilit y and
responsib ility to their organiza tions and a platform upon which to carry
on their nefarious designs and activities. On our campuse s of colleges
and universities particula rly are such organiza tions flourishing. constantly searchin g for justifiable areas of complain t within our educational and governm ental systems, to become, then, their legal front for
their otherwis e subversiv e activities.
Let us not permit needed reforms to be forced upon us by riots,
protests, and violence by those who would destroy us, but let this prayer
be our guide" Oh God, give us the courage to change those things that can
and should be changed , the fortitude to endure those that cannot be
changed , and the wisdom to different iate one from the other!"
Let us, then, as responsi ve citizens, rob them of their opportun ities for
achievin g false credibilit y and bring about the needed changes in a just
and legal manner; let us continue to bear the torch in the search for the
great Light of Truth.
Tomorro w, we have the opportun ity of visiting the Masonic Home
at Union City. I hope all. who can, will go for the first time. or as a previous visitor. It will be, in my opinion, the greatest experien ce you will
ever have in the fraternal spirit of Relief and Brotherl y Love. There, in
this beautiful Home for our less fortunate Brethren , their wives and
widows, is Masonry in action. It is one thing to relieve the body of
physical needs by welfare, but it is somethin g far apart to relieve the
minds of our aged and infirm Brethren of the worry and fear of providing for themselv es in their late years. To see the Light of love and appreciatio n for the Craft in the eyes of the residents of our Homes is
somethin g you will forever treasure. If every Californ ia Mason could
visit our Homes, we would never have to worry about the success of our
program for the support and maintena nce of our M asonic Homes, where
burns bright the Light of Relief and Brotherl y Love.
We hold in our hands, My Brethren , the future and the destiny of
Masonry in Californi a. It can be an awesome burden, or a stimulati ng
challeng e. This past year we had one of the greatest numerica l losses
of members and Lodges in the history of this Grand Jurisdiction. This,
in itself, need not be alarming , most other Grand Jurisdict ions also sustained net losses in members hips. as have other fraternal organiza tions.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

181

So, we can say, complac ently, that it is the trend of the times and there
is nothing we can do about it. Many downtow n metropol itan Lodges,
in the past great towers of Masonic strength and activity, are suffering
severe declines in attendan ce and members hips; in many rural areas,
where towns are disappea ring due to better transpor tation and changes
in living habits, these small Lodges, too, are disappea ring. We hear
many reasons for the disturbin g conditio n-too many competin g activities. too much or too little discretio nary time available, commuti ng greater
distances to work, and that great destroye r of useful activity, television .
Or, is it a combina tion of these thlngs, or is it none of them, but a lack
of stimulati on? Yes, the latter perhaps. for running counter to the general trend are Lodges in Californ ia that are enjoying outstand ing activity, both socially and in their degree work. Let's look at some of them
and see if we can come up with any general observat ions or conclusio ns.
They generally are located in towns and cities near the residence , rather
than the place of business . of their members. They take pride in the excellence of their ritualisti c work and the attitudes and dress of their
officers in the performa nce of their duties. They never compromise with
the quality of their candidat es to get a new member. They give real support, not just lip service, to our Youth Orders, the Order of DeMola y,
Job's Daughte rs, and Order of Rainbow . Their observan ce of Public
Schools Week and Constitu tion Month Observa nce are well planned
and executed . They have good speakers and panels on subjects of Masonic interest and they make use of the service offered by the several Research Lodges. They have a well-bala nced social program , father and
son dinners, meetings where they can take that friend who you wish
was a Mason, and they have several nice affairs each year honoring
their wives. They have program s that are not peculiar unto large and
wealthy lodges, but program s that are possible and practical for every
Lodge in Californ ia.
These are not innovatio ns in the body of Masonry which we swore
we would not make when we were installed as Masters of our Lodges,
but are stimulati ng and complem enting program s to our basic Masonic
work of stated and degree meetings . Let us use all these proper means
that are possible and practical for our own Lodges and fill our Trestle
Boards and our Lodge Rooms with meaning ful Masonic activity.
If we do these things, then the ever-incr easing body of Masonry will
do credit to our stewards hip and will truly indicate our devotion and
service to those great Masonic Lights of Brotherl y Love, Relief and
Truth.
LET THERE BE LIGHT!
*
*
*
*
The Grand Oration was received with a standing ovation.
The Grand Master directed the Grand Secretar y to have printed
copies of the oration made available to the members of Grand Lodge.

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Wor shipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M . of California:
Your Committee on Public Schools consisted of twenty-three members and two consultants, an increase of one member over last year,
making it the largest number of members in recent years.
Right Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner was chosen by the Grand
Master , Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, as liaison with the Committee. Brother Huebner, a former Chairman of the Grand Lodge
Committee on Public Schools, proved to be of great assistance to the
Committee.
Three meetings were held during the Masonic year: the first in San
Francisco on October 15 at which time there were 15 members in attendance, the second in Los Angeles on January 18 with 16 in attendance
and finally in San Francisco at the Grand Lodge on May 31 with 17
present. Many guests were welcomed at these meetings and included
Right Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner, Senior Grand Warden, Edward H. Siems. PGM. Grand Secretary, and Verne W. Hendrix, Assistant Grand Secretary. Brother Richard R. F. Lehman, a member of
Palestine Lodge No. 351 and a consultant to the Committee, attended
all meetings of the Committee and his efforts were again of invaluable
assistance.
MASONIC ORIENTATION MEETINGS

The Grand Master declared that a special Officers Association
meeting be held in each of the six divisions for the purpose of Masonic
Orientation. The Public Schools Committee was one of the committees
chosen to make a presentation at these meetings. In addition to the ,
Chairman, members who spoke at these six meetings were: Elroy Joyce,
Clyde Stine, Rolland Atwood, George Hiatt and Norbert Tester. The
general feeling of the representatives was that the idea of the meeting
was excellent and it was hoped that they would be continued.
PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK APRIL 21-25, 1969
The Grand M aster chose for this year's slogan " The Public School
- Freedom 's Foundation Stone. " The slogan was widely accepted
throughout California and Hawaii and was used extensively by both
Masonic and non-Masonic groups. The results of some of the Public
Schools Week activities follow:
Over six million milk cartons carried a panel urging visitations of
public schools during the week of April 21-25.
Billboards situated on major California highways carried the message to millions of motorists. This project was again sponsored by the
Scottish Rite.
The Committee again contacted all of the major food chains requesting tha t they use some space in their weekly food ads to publicize
Public Schools W eek. The response was good.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

A letter was sent to all county superintendents of schools informing
them of our activities. Many letters thanking the Committee and our
Grand Lodge were received by the Chairman from these superintendents.
Proclamations were obtained from the vast majority of public officials and State legislators in both California and Hawaii declaring the
week of April 21-25 Public Schools Week and urging the citizenry to
visit their public schools.
Television and radio stations were again generous with their air
time and several committee members, Grand Lodge officers and other
prominent Masons appeared on radio and television.
The Yark Rite Bodies of California made it possible for us to have
more than 1,000 bus cards posted in buses throughout the State.
Over 27,000 "official" posters, printed at Los Angeles Trade Technical College, were distributed through the office of the Grand Secretary.
This represented an increase of approximately 10% over last year. The
Public Schools Committee was able to cut the price per package of 50
posters to $6.50 this year.
The pamphlet "The Masons of California and Hawaii Salute Their
School Administrators" was again widely accepted with over 25.000
copies distributed. The Committee has decided to update the pamphlet
and increase the printing from 25,000 to 30.000 this next year.
School systems and teacher groups assisted extensively by distributing publicity.
NEXT PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK APRIL 20-24
The Deputy Grand Master has announced the slogan "The Public
School- Information, Education, Responsibility" for the 1970 Observance. The Committee feels that this is a most timely slogan.
The poster design has been approved and is in the process of being
made ready for printing.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION

A special "thanks" must be given to : Al Malaikah Temple, the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, Southern Jurisdiction, and the Royal
Arch Bodies for their generous contributions toward our Committee's
expenses without which many of our activities and functions would have
to be curtailed.
YEAR 'ROUND PARTICIPATION

Your Committee is putting forth an increasing effort to support
education in California and Hawaii on a year 'round basis. Some of
the plans include the regular attendance by members at school board
meetings and an active legislative committee working with members
of the California Legislature and various supportive lobbyists.
Members of your Committee are located in all geographical areas ancl

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

are ready and willing to be of help and assistance toward the protection
and continuance of our free Public School System.

control the weeds. Both cemeteries had to be sprayed twice this year
plus some additional hand weeding.
Due to the extremely wet winter, we were unable to trim the dead
branches from the huge oak trees at Jamestown before they began to
sprout. It is necessary to re-budget this item again this year. There
are also several more broken split rails in the Jamestown C emeter y
fence which will have to be replaced.
As of this date, all that will be needed at the Columbia Cemetery
is the usual spraying fo r weed control and a few minor repairs.

BUDGET

The Committee requests a budget for the ensuing year in the amount
of $2.825.00, details of which have been submitted to the Finance Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD H. DuTWILER, Chairman
GEORGE E. HIATT

WILLIAM J. CAVEN

EARL VAN VoRST

LAURENCE C. CooK

NORBERT P. TESTER

CLARENCE B. HART

ROLLAND F. ATWOOD

THOMAS SCARLETT, JR.

EDWIN N. STANSEL

GEORGE

PETE B. FLORIO

ELROY 0. JOYCE

CLYOE M. STINE

PHILIP

c. HOLSTEIN

c. REINER

WILLIAM R. PORTER

HAROLD J. FARR

ROBERT KERR

ROBERT M. Ev ANS

JULES CHALEFF

MILTON M. RUBIN

GEORGE HESS

RICHARD F. PEARCE

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES
To the Most ·worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Cemeteries respectfully submits the following
report of their activities for the Masonic Year 1968-1969.
As in the past, we think it best to repeat for the benefit of those
attending Grand Lodge for the first time, a brief summary of the functions of this committee. It is the duty of this committee to care for the
three cemeteries owned by the Grand Lodge. To work with and counsel
those individual lodges where cemetery care problems exist. To see
that public cemeteries which set aside sections for the exclusive use of
Masons or their families do not deviate from our laws with respect to
commercialism. To study and inspect plans for any monuments to be
erected in such Masonic sections and make recommendations to the
Grand Master for his approval or disapproval.

Columbia and famestown: After a very severe wet winter, both the
St. James Masonic Cemetery in Jamestown, and the Columbia Masonic
Cemetery in Columbia State Park are in fairly good condition. It was
a continuous battle for the Future Farmers of America in Sonora to

185

Fiddletown Cemetery: T his year Brother Vincent V. Lake of Lodi
was appointed to the Cemeteries Committee. He was assigned to the
Fiddletown Cemetery and has done an outstanding job. He has made a
number of trips there and has personally done much land clearing and
repairing. In addition to the cleaning and repairing he has contacted
the Amador County Surveyor's Office and obtained a map showing the
layout of the cemetery and the location and names of those buried there.
He is at present working on some possible corrections and making an
attempt to find who is buried in some of the unknown graves.
Weed spraying at the Fiddletown Cemetery was done by Richard
D. Henderson, Agricultural C ommissioner of Amador County.
One burial was made this year. Brother Cecil Fisher, P.M. of Provident Lodge No. 609 of Sacramento, was laid to rest in March. A second
plot was sold to his wife for future use.
The entire Masonic section of this cemetery is in a very fine condition.
Michigan Bluff: Last year we were instructed to obtain title to the
Masonic Cemeter y in Michigan Bluff. This matter was assigned to Brother Leo J. Todd of Grass Valley. Because the necessary papers were not
received when expected and for other reasons, action to obtain this title
has been delayed. It is my understanding that the necessary filing has
now been done.
Peter Lassen Grave in Susanville: At the last session of Grand
Lodge we requested a sum of $250.00 to star t repairing and cleaning
the grave of Brother Peter Lassen. A considerable amount of work has
been done recently by some members of Lassen Lodge No. 149, but at
no cost to the Grand Lodge. It will, however, be necessary for us to
spend some money this year and we are making a request in our budget
for an amount we believe will be sufficient.
The area has been mowed and cleaned twice. Red cinder rock is to
be placed around the old marker this month. The remains of the huge
stump will be cut out and cement will be poured at the entry.
We request a budget in the amount of $2,075.00 for the ensuing
year as follows:

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Columbia Cemetery :
Spraying for weeds and materiaL ................. $175.00
Restoration work .............................................. 125.00
Incidentals ........................................................ 100.00

$400.00

Jamestown Cemetery:
Spraying for weeds and materiaL ................. $175.00
Restoration work .............................................. 150.00
Incidentals ·····-···-----------------··----·-·-···················· 100.00

425.00

Fiddle town Cemetery:
Spraying for weeds and material... ................. $150.00
Incidentals ··················--·-···-----··--·············· ----·-·- I 00.00

250.00

Michigan Bluff Cemetery ................................................
Peter Lassen Memorial Cemetery ..................................... .
General Committee Expense..............................................

200.00
500.00
300.00

Total ................................................. ........................... $2,075.00
We wish to thank Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, Grand
Master, the Grand Secretary and his office staff, the Inspectors and all
others who have been so very helpful to this committee in its work
during the past year.
Respectfully submitted,
BASIL R. GILLETT, Chairman
MARCEL M . BAER
RAYMOND

J. BERKLINE

LEo

J. Tooo
v. LAKE

VINCENT

Referred to the Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
"PATRIOTIC PROGRAMS TO STIMULATE THOUGHT AND ENDEAVOR"

This, our One Hundred Twentieth Annual Communication, affords
each of us a wonderful opportunity to meet together and to share and
exchange information concerning all of the programs which, taken to~
gether, form the structure of Freemasonry in California and H awaii.
We have assembled this week to learn more about all the activities
and programs which are so vital to the successful conduct of our indi~
vidual Lodges.
Each and every Masonic activity and program (whether it be Ritual.

187

Endowment, Masonic Homes, California Masonic Foundation, Public
Schools, Masonic Education, Youth Orders or Constitution Observ~
ance) complements all the other activities and programs and the sue~
cess of any one of them is certain to assist the growth and development
of the others.
Some, of course, are indispensable, for without them there would
be no Masonry. And two sha re the unique distinction of being the only
programs which carry us as a Fraternity outside of the Lodge to join
with the citizens of our respective communities to promote general sup~
port for our Public Schools and for the Constitution of the United
States of America.
These two programs are both fraught with small and large dis~
appointments. They each possess a challenge of considerable magni~
tu de and constan tly demand our best efforts, and all too of ten our labors
are rewa rded with attendance far below expectations.
But, my Brethren, in spite of the difficulties and disappointments our
efforts are succeeding. We are individually and collectively hewing and
reshaping our talents to equal our task.
The Cons titution Observance programs for 1969 offer substantial
evidence tha t our sustained efforts over the past 29 years are meeting
with success.
Our Gra nd Master initiated and guided our endeavors this past year
and most eloquently and effectively conveyed our primary purpose in
his Proclama tion.
The reports submitted by you, my Brethren , offer assurance to our
Grand Master that his message was taken to heart. ·• ... Patriotic Pro~
grams to stimulate thought and endeavor ... "were observed throughout
the length and breadth of this Grand Jurisdiction.
It is a difficult if not an impossible task to select the best or most
outstanding observance programs. We shall not attempt to do this but
will share with you a random sampling taken from the first reports to
reach your Committee. We hasten to note that our purpose is to illustrate
the scope and variety of programs and failure to mention your Lodge,
or to give complete details for those programs included herein, is an
omission without significance.
Let us examine just a few reports:
1. The Orange County Committee on Constitution Observance
(sponsored by 20 Masonic Lodges. 2 Knights of Columbus Councils, 1
Elks Lodge and a Shrine Club) held its second annual parade and pro~
gram in Buena Park. A spectacular parade (comprised of nearly 2100
participants with the entire program attracting over 5000) concluded its
line~of~march at the front of the replica of Independence Hall at Knott's
Berry Fa rm where the official program was held in the most ideal
setting west of Philadelphia. The day~long. community~wide celebration
started with a Pancake Break£ ast at the Elks Club and from then on

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

each and every detail reflected the year-long planning and dedicated
labor of Brother Norman Mullen, General Chairman, and his committee. This program is worthy of our highest commendation.
2. In an effort to increase attendance and expand support. Crescent
City Lodge No. 45 contacted 32 organizations in their community of
2300. Our commendation to Brother Klotz.
3. A combined Masonic and Knights of Columbus program was held
at Holy Cross High School and our 15 Lodges in the Santa Clara Valley
report an attendance of over I 000.
4. 275 attended a beef barbecue at Orcutt sponsored by Hesperian
Lodge No. 264 and Guadalupe Lodge No. 237, Santa Maria area.
5. Needles Lodge No. 326 arranged for three special meetings under
the direction of the local School Superintendent to carry our message
to the students of their community. The students received credit for attending and we believe this is a new twist to the "captive audience"
approach-total attendance was 700.
6. Atascadero Lodge No. 493 deserves special notice for having its
program prepared and presented by the Social Studies Class of Atascadero High School. The publicity in the local press and radio was most
effective in carrying the message to the entire community.
7. Nearly 3000 attended the San Francisco Masters & Wardens
Association sponsored program held on September 17th at the Civic
Auditorium. The Bay Area Brethren were most apprecia tive that the
Grand Master was able to accept their invitation and join the Senior
U . S. Senator from California on the speaker's platform. "Youth of
America" provided excellent entertainment for this outstanding program. Our Brethren in the 2 I 2th District in Sacramento held a similar
program at the Del Oro High School in Loomis- attendance about 500.
8. One of the most impressive and appropriate programs was held
in our 50th State where our Lodges in Honolulu joined in the sponsorship of a city-wide celebration of "Citizenship Day." An afternoon
program witnessed the granting of U . S. Citizenship to 31 children and
a similar program was held in the evening with 197 adults receiving
their citizenship. The dual program was a "standing room only" success
and the coverage in the press could not have been better.
9. The 608th District in Whittier arranged a half-time program
which included distribution of several thousand copies of Constitution
booklets.
10. "Up With People Singers" provided the entertainment for the
program held in the Ontario Masonic Temple.
11. The Masons of Nevada City once again sponsored a Constitution Day Parade and Program similar to those held in the past, with one
exception, it was bigger and better than ever. Brother Bill Lambert and
his committee were rewarded by a crowd estimated at 3000. This event
included something for everyone-unicycles, a llama, bands, 40 entries,

a 7-foot " Uncle Sam," reenactment of the signing ceremony, a minuet
and a barbecue, a colonial hat sale and as speaker of the day Lt. Com.
Ted Robinson USN Retired and former skipper of PT Boat No. I 08
which rescued our late President following the loss of PT Boat 109. If
this listing doesn't include something which would cause you to attend
-then be assured that it was included in the actual program- we simply
do not have time to cover all of the events and activities.
12. Over 400 attended a dinner and program at Bateman Hall sponsored by the 580th and 590th Districts. All arrangements for this program, including the superior printed program, were carefully planned
and executed. Brothers Taylor and Blivens were the responsible chairmen.
13. The Masons of Monterey Pa,rk, Rosemead and San Gabriel
joined with other civic and fraternal organizations to present a public
rally with Lt. Gov. Ed. Reinecke as the feature speaker. The attendance
at Barnes Memorial Bowl was reported to be disappointing but we trust
that our Brethren will continue this truly public format and build attendance and support to equal the excellent quality of their program.
14. And lastly, Founder's United Church of Religious Science, Los
Angeles, was the site for a program titled "Youth-America's Future"
sponsored by the 526th, 528th, 550th and 552nd Districts. Total attendance reached 1500 and the entire program is one of which we can all be
proud.
There were several hundred other programs equally worthy of mention. Materials for most of them have been included in the display which
your Committee has set up on Exhibit or "G" floor. If you haven't already visited this d[splay we strongly Tecommend that you do so before
Friday afternoon. All of the materials on display have been brought
here ~y the Lodges in order that we might share in and gain from the
experience of others. Please take the time to examine all of the materials on the bulletin board and table, particularly the beautiful binders
filled with all details for the programs at Holy Cross High School in
Santa Clara and the Scottish Rite Temple in Los Angeles.
On behalf of our Grand Master, your Committee takes this opportunity to formally acknowledge each and every program and express
appreciation to each of you, my Brethren, for every hour of dedicated
labor on behalf of our Fratenity's sponsorship of Constitution Observance programs.
Each member of this Committee likewise joins your Chairman in
expressing appreciation to Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler for the
privilege of serving this past year. Our thanks, too, go to the Grand
Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and the Grand Lodge Staff.
Every request for assistance has received cordial and prompt attention. This constitutes our full and final report for 1969. To continue,
sustain and amplify this program, your Committee en Constitution

189

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Observance requests the sum of $2.000.00 be appropriated for its work
during the coming year.
Respectfully submitted,
WARREN BLOMSETH, Chairman
CHARLES N. CLARKSON
DONALD BRENT

To correct this situation, and to establish firm lines of communication, it was determined at our first meeting, by unanimous ballot, that
all incoming communications be directed to the Chairman, with all replies made only by him.
The Chairman was to send facsimile copies of all correspondence,
both incoming and outgoing. to each member of the Board. and in addition, to the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens. and Chairman of the Special Committee to Report
on Sojourner Relief. This procedure has resulted in a complete file on
each matter being in the hands of each Board member, and each of the
four Grand Lodge Officers.
Your Board, realizing that much knowledge of Board of Relief opera tions must be quickly gained, devised a form to be used by each Board
of Relief, reporting thereon, each request for Relief or Service. This
test ran for ninety days.
These forms asked for the name of the M ason in whose name the
reques t was made, his address, Lodge name. number and Jurisdiction;
the name and address of the person making the request: nature of the
request; what Relief or Service was furnished; with appropriate spaces
for recording Lodge notification. manner of contact, and money expended, if any.
This request did not meet with enthusiastic support. Two of the
Boards refused to file the reports. This refusal was later reconsidered
in a limited way. Many of the reports were incomplete, lacking the
important information we sought.
The tabulation· of the information received is as follows: Funerals
260, of which 141 or 54 % were requested by mortuaries, 33 by families,
45 by friends or relatives, and 41 not reported as to source; requests for
blood 143; requests for relief 32; requests for employment 24: requests
to find or give status of Brother 61; other information or service requested 235. of which 161 or 68 % were for activity not provided for
or permitted by the C.M.C., or rules and regulations governing Boards
of Relief. This category includes. but is not limited to, requests for
court records or information; finding quarters for children at college;
help in obtaining visa; giving meeting dates of Lodges; giving phone
numbers of Lodge officers; and other information not related to sojourner
relief.
It should be called to your attention that the above statistics differ
in many respects from the statistics given us for the total year operation,
and are reported elsewhere in this report.
It was evident from the information provided, that the function of
the Board of Relief did not follow prescribed Law as permitted by the
C.M.C. or rules and regulations pertaining to Boards of Relief. It was
also evident that in general the sojourner received more services and

c. T ARIO
c. ARBUCKLE

}ACK B. CRAWFORD

JAMES

LoNNIE T. CHILDERS

EARL

LLOYD M . COWAN, JR.

ROBERT SHULTZ

0RLO WINKLER

CLIFFORD H. S CHWARTZMAN

GARETH W . HouK

RrcHARD F. L OCKE, JR.

WARREN L. BACON

WILEY T. KILLINGSWORTH

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
Your Board of Control presents herewith its report for the year
1968-69.
None of the statements of non-permissive activity or report of activity in this report are offered as criticism, but rather as a factual report
to you, the members of our Grand Lodge, to the state of deviation from
established Law. This condition has grown to alarming proportions.
The reason for a Board of Relief, with the single function covered
by Sect. 603 C.M.C., that of relieving the distress of sojourning Masons, their widows and orphans, is now a minor work of many Boards.
It is not here suggested that the present practices of the Boards
were instituted in intentional disregard for our Law. These actions have
grown, year by year, and though not permitted, have been overlooked
and condoned by previous Boards of Control with apparent full knowledge of the Officers of Grand Lodge. The Lodges, too, have permitted,
and in some cases encouraged, these actions to grow.
Your Board of Control on taking office October 18, 1968, and with
four new members, spent the first three weeks reviewing the files and
previous correspondence of the Board.
This detailed study of procedure and action, made clear the necessity of adopting a new policy of communication.
Previously, outgoing communications had been accomplished by
typing each letter, making five carbon copies, which many times were
not legible. Incoming communications might be directed to any one of
the five members.
From the personal knowledge of the present Board, it was noted
that many oral statements and direction had been made by former
members, and did not always follow a consistent pattern.

191

192

193

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

better treatment than the Lodge could or should properly provide for
its own members.
General directives and individual directives were issued to obtain
conformity within the framework of existing law.
The entire effort of your Board of Control this year has been directed toward bringing all Board of Relief operations within the framework of our present law, thus affording the sojourner the same measure
of relief and service in all parts of the state.
A series of visitations were then made to the offices of selected
Boards of Relief.

3. Use of funds for maintenance of funeral plot.
4. Performing non-sojourner services for member Lodges.
5. Listing "Employment Service" in title on office door, and on stationery, though the Employment Service was discontinued June 30, 1967.
6. Operation of information service for officers of member Lodges.
such as giving telephone numbers to member Lodge officers, information
of degree work to be held in local Lodges, etc.
7. Performing service for Masters and Wardens Association in preparing roster.
8. Lump sum auto allowance for secretary without accounting for
actual use.
9. Operation of blood bank for member Lodges.
10. Operation of blood bank for non-member Lodges, charging fee
therefor.

MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF OF SAN FRANCISCO

Your Board of Control visited this board on March 1, 1969, examining books, records and files. This examination disclosed the following
non-permissive activity:
1. Providing relief for non-Masons.
2. Making loans of board funds.
3. Furnishing relief without notification to or securing approval from
the sojourner's Lodge.
4. Holding personal funds of a sojourner. disbursing same in payment of life insurance premiums, and otherwise acting as fiduciary.
5. Storage of personal effects of a sojourner.
6. Listing in local telephone directory under "Local Masonic Information."
7. Performing non-sojourner services for member Lodges.
8. Lump sum auto allowance for secretary without accounting for
actual use.
9. It was noted that this board still listed a full time stenographer
in violation of direction from the Board of Control under date of June
18, 1968, to reduce this employee to a part time status.
10. Operation of a blood bank for member Lodges.
11. Operation of blood bank for non-member Lodges and other
organizations which included Eastern Star Chapters, Shrine Club and
Square Club.
12. Expending board funds for Christmas gifts.
MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF OF THE EAST BAY

Your Board of Control visited this board on March 22, 1969, examing books, records and files. noting the following non-permissive activity:
1. Use of funds to provide Christmas gifts for employees, mailman,
blood bank employees, etc.
2. Use of funds for providing breakfast and lunch for board officers
and executive committee at Masters and Wardens functions and othe.r
non-sojourner related activity.

MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF OF SAN DIEGO

On January 20, 1969, the Chairman of your Board of Control received a call from an Inspector indicating that a forthcoming election
was adding to the disharmony which prevailed in this board.
The Chairman visited this office on January 23, 1969, checking
books, files and records and noted the following:
1. The books and records were not in proper condition and did no t
reflect proper activity.
2. Activity had been conducted for non-Masons.
3. The board had been disbursing relief funds on behalf of a concordant body.
3. Operation of a blood bank for member Lodges .
4. Operating a blood bank which included the Eastern Star, Amaranth. Scottish Rite, and Beauceants.
The Chairman attended a meeting of the representatives of the board
at which he endeavored to bring about a reconciliation. On January 29
a call was received from Board of Control member Jones giving details
of further deterioration of the harmony among members of the board.
Board of Control members were contacted by telephone and after consultation with the Grand Master. the San Diego Board was closed on
January 29.
The Inspectors of the area set to work with the Lodges and on April I
a plan of reorganization was approved by the Board of Control and the
San Diego Board reopened.
We can now report to ·y ou that harmony prevails and the San Diego
Boa.rd is operation within prescribed law.

194

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MAsoNrc BOARD op RELIEF oP Los ANGELES

There is also factual evidence that membership of Lodges in boards
is not uniform. Several cases exist where two or more Lodges meeting
in the same temple belong to dilferent Boards of Relief.
There is also factual evidence that in some areas, one of the Lodges
meeting in a temple belongs to a board while one or more of the others,
meeting in the same temple, does not belong to a board.

Several visits have been made to this board and communications exchanged. The continuing study, though not completed, discloses the
following :
1. Conduct of yearly breakfast not provided for as proper work
of a Board of Relief.
2. Payment to Master for conduct of funerals in violation of Sec.
604 m, C.M.C.
3. Publishing of Clearing House Report, not provided for as proper
work of a Board of Relief.
4. Conducting funerals for member Lodges.
5. Extension of relief without attempt at recovery from sojourner's
Lodge.
6. Lump sum auto allowance for secretary without accounting for
actual use.
This board is in the unique position of being able to operate without
charging a per capita. Proceeds of an estate provide more than adequate funds for operation. In addition they have a sizeable surplus,
part of which they have recently returned to the member Lodges as
repayment of per capita previously charged.
MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF OP SAN GABRIEL VALLEY

Several visits and communication with this board discloses the
following:
1. Conducting funerals in violation of Sec. 605 C.M.C
2. Conducting funeral without obtaining authorization of home
Lodge.
3. Lump sum auto allowance for secretary without accounting for
actual use.
4. Conducting annual breakfast not provided for as proper work
of a Board of Relief.
5. Payment to Master for mileage in attending funeral. in violation
of Sec. 604 m. C.M.C.
6. Billing per capita to Lodges before receiving approval of budget
from Board of Control. in direct violation of directive.
STRUCTURE OF BOARDS OP R ELIEF

There is evidence that the Southern Alameda County and Richmond
Boards were formed for the sole purpose of gaining membership in a
blood ba nk and/ or to escape the higher per capita of the adjoining East
Bay Board.
There is evidence that other Lodges have joined, and are now asking
to join, a board only for the purpose of membership in a blood bank.

195

BLOOD BANKS

The operation of blood banks for either member or non-member
Lodges does not fall within the category of permissible activity of a
Board of Relief.
Many boards operate the blood bank as a commercial venture, accepting money for the purchase of blood, buying and selling, operating
on a debit, credit, deficit basis. Some very sizeable funds are held in
trust for blood purchase and are continually growing.
Your Board of Control on February I 0 recommended to the Grand
Master that the blood program be referred to a committee for study.
It is assumed that this Committee will submit for your approval a
recommendation for uniform blood bank operation.
PENSION PLAN

We call your attention to several interesting facts about the Grand
Lodge Pension Plan covering full time employees of the Board of Relief.
The San Francisco and Long Beach Boards had been directed by
the former Board of Control to cut stenographic employees to a part
time status. They requested reconsideration of the ruling on the ground
that the stenographers had one and two years respectively to be eligible
for the pension, and it was their feeling that full time employment should
be continued for that period, because we are a F raternal and not a commercial organization.
The Executive Secretary of the San Francisco Board has since
March 1, 1969 been receiving the sum of $60.86 per month pension,
under the plan, while continuing full time, full pay employment for that
period.
The Executive Secetary of the Los Angeles Board has been receiving the sum of $130.94 per month pension since January 1, 1965,
while continuing full time, full pay employment with the board. The
budget for the ensuing year reflects a raise in salary.
The Board of Control has no jurisdiction over the administration
of the Pension Plan, but deems it proper to bring this to the attention of
the Grand Lodge.
STATISTICS

The statistics furnished by the 20 Boards of Relief to the Board of
Control for the year July 1, 1968 through June 30, 1969, reveals the
following:

196

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Sojourner s funerals ...................................................... 1032
Service calls on sick sojourners .................................. .. 8017
Investigat ions to locate Brother ...................................... 174
Investigat ions to report status of Brother................. ..... 207
Assisting in processing applicatio ns for Homes of
Ca Ii fornia ·············································--······ ...............25
Assisting in processing applicatio ns for Homes of
other Jurisdictions ........................................................38
Requests for relief............................................................293
Cases of relief provided .................................................. 236
We should note that of the 236 cases of relief reported, 87 or 37 %
were reported by the San Gabriel Board with a resulting expenditu re
of only $710. IO or $8.16 per case, while 41 or 17% were reported by
the Los Angeles Board with an expenditu re of $2953.15 or $72.00 per
case, and 34 or 14% were reported by the San Francisco Board with
an expenditu re of $1403.14 or $41.20 per case. The remaining 74 or
32 % were reported by the other 17 boards.
Total advanced for reJieL. ................. ................ $10,541.43
Total amount recovered............ .............................. $9968.73
Cases of relief where continuing payments are made
on behalf of Home Lodge or Jurisdictio n .................. 15
Pints of blood donated ................. ................................. 2908
Pints of blood released.................................................. 2529
Cash donations for blood received .... .................... $5790.41
Cash paid out for purchase of blood ................ .... $2744.00
Total cost of all Board of Relief operation ...... $100,809.90
Total cases for all boards .............................................. 9744
Of these 9744 cases, 6405 or 65% were sick calls reported by the
Long Beach Board. This is an average of 17 calls per day for each of
the 365 days per year.
Number of cases conducted by secretary................... .1145
Cost per case for year 1969 ........................................ $10.34
Surplus funds in Boards of Relief as of June 30, 1969, amount to
$266,129.67 or $1.82 for each of the 146,911 members of the 358 l;odges
belonging to the Board of Relief system.
This does not take into considerat ion the Bush Estate of Los Angeles
which we are told amounts to approxima tely $750,000. This estate is
under the trusteeship of three self-perpe tuating trustees. holding title
to the estate under the name of THE MASON IC BOARD OF RELIEF OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELE S. a Corporati on. The
trustees have for several years given the income from this estate to defray operationa l expenses of the MASON IC BOARD OF RELIEF
OF LOS ANGELE S.
There are two organizati ons with similar names in Los Angeles.
1. THE MASON IC BOARD OF RELIEF OF THE CITY OF

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

197

LOS ANGELE S is a corporatio n holding title to an estate, claiming

~ot to be under the control of the Grand Lodge.

2. MASON IC BOARD OF RELIEF OF LOS ANGELE S is th_e
agency for the Lodges for providing relief for the sojourner, and is
under the control of the Grand Lodge.
CONCLUSION AND OPINION REACHED PROM STUDY CONDUCTED
The Grand Master has directed this board to make an in-depth
study of Board of Relief operations . This prompts us to make the following conclusions. and express the following opinions.
In the discharge of the duties and responsibilities imposed by the
C.M.C. on your Board of Control. several dis turbing factors ha ve
been noted.
Some boards have encourage d donations to. and maintain funds
for. purposes inconsiste nt with their responsibilities under the law.
Some boards have actively solicited or encourage d endowmen ts
and bequests for like purposes.
This affluence has made possible some of the non-permi ssive activity.
When questioned , some boards have pointedly stated that their fu nds
•and actions are of no concern to your Board of Control. The Secretary
of the San Gabriel Board on one occasion made a public statement to
the effect that "It was none of the Board of Control's business how
their money was spent." Other boards have on occasion, in private.
made similar statement s to the same effect.
This accumulat ion of endowmen ts. estates, and other surplus funds
derived from per capita. has apparently tended to make some Boards
of Relief feel independe nt from control of the member Lodges, and
above supervision of Grand Lodge through your Board of Control.
Your Board of Control has according ly issued a written directive
that surplus funds of a Board of Relief may not exceed one year's ope~­
ating expense. To implement this directive, moratoriu ms have been directed to reduce surplus.
The co-operati on by many of the boards has been immediate and
complete. However, some of the problems found in the San Francisco
East Bay and San Gabriel boards have required much correspon dence,
necessitat ed action by the Grand Master, and to this date, all problems
have not been fully resolved. Others , too, have refused to heed the
"Good Counsel" given them. choosing to continue to circumvent or totally ignore the law.
It is our opinion that since many a gencies exist for the financial relief of the distressed , and because the administra tion of sojourner funer~
als under our present system is costly, that Board~ of Relief no longer
fill the need which once existed.
The contention by some Boards of Relief that operations be ex-

198

199

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

panded in order to justify their existence and to enhance the public
image is not in our opinion a valid one. but clearly indicates no further
need for the Board of Relief. Boards of Relief, in our opinion, should
not be operated as a public relations bureau.
O ver one-half of the Lodges in this Jurisdiction do not belong to
Boards of Relief. We have yet to find one case where such non-membership has caused the sojourner to receive less than proper attention.
In view of the contents of this report. and our experience and study
this year, it is our opinion that Boards of Relief should be discontinued.
We again repea t that nothing in this report has been stated as
criticism of any person. body, office, or officer but is made as a statement of facts as they appear recorded, with opinions clearly labeled
as such.
It is for each of the Lodges, through their M asters and Wardens
as members of Grand Lodge, to determine the proper work to be carried
on by all employees. boards and committees operating in the name of
Masonry in California.

appraisals of all gifts both for the record and for the benefit of the
donor, but proper and satisfactory appraisals by competent authorities
are not always immediately available, hence our reluctance in this case
to quote a value for these gifts.
Your Library's growth this year is almost triple that of the preceding
year. A mos t substantial gift was received from Brother Alfred R. Porterfield, who donated an extensive collection of val uable Masonic books
collected from all over the world. We now have in excess of 4600 volumes. of which 3620 are available on the shelves of the Library proper.
During the year of July 1. 1968. through June 30. 1969, your Commission has purchased 39 volumes of particular reference value. We
have also received gifts of 585 books. most of which are out of print
and some of which are true collector's item s.
Books necessarily stored in the downstairs vaults have been properly
accessed and shelved for their better preservation and availability. All
such books. of Masonic nature. are now catalogued and housed on steel
shelves in a dry. dark space, looking toward the day when the entire
library may be housed as a unit.
We have also received the entire library of the Berkeley Clubhouse.
but not in time to classi fy for this report. As yet there has been no decision of what to do with surplus Masonic encyclopedias or with nonMasonic books. fiction and otherwise.
We have the pleasure to report that the correspondence use of the
Library by the Brethren has grown this year to a new peak of 275 volumes.
Our visitors' book has less entries this yea r. Because it was found
advisable to close the Temple on weekends for security, the Library
and Museum are now open only five days a week. This has cut the
number of visitors as compared with last year. However. during Grand
Lodge Week, as usual. the facilities will be open every day. At that
time the registration of visitors is not officially kept.
Our volunteer Assistant Librarians, as dedicated a group of Brethren as you will find in this Jurisdiction. show a few changes in personnel
from last year. Our actives have been William H. Scott. William McMaster, Adolph Kiersch. Arthur Simpson. P aul Harasin, George Beard,
Morris Licin, Stanley A. Butera, Carroll Peake, Clinton Ross and H enry
Cardoza. These brethren are all well-acquainted with the cataloguing
and, regardless of whether you visit between Monday and Friday or
you write in for references, they will be of inestimable help in your
research.
This year we were permitted sufficient capital expenditure to purchase two new cases for Museum display. You will have noticed these
cases, which now use the last of the available space on the second floor
hallway, to give maximum display to our collections of memorabilia,
Masonic, early Californian and other.

YOU ARE THE GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
We wish to thank all who have contributed to our effort this year.
with particular thanks to the Grand Master for his staunch support
and wise counsel during times of stress.
We request the sum of $4150.00 for the expenses of the Board of
Control for the ensuing Year. This sum approximates the expense
of this year.
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES E. WELLET, Chairman
HOWARDS. FISHER

WARREN W. WILDMAN

RONALD E. JONES

VARNUM PAUL

Adopted.

REPORT OF BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Acting under the appointment of Grand Master Robert A. Crigler.
the Commission has endeavored. with his assistance. to carry out his
wishes for the administration of the Library and Museum of the Grand
Lodge.
Your Museum acquisitions are difficult to classify here for the record. We recommend that you satisfy your interest by consulting the
files during your visits to the Temple. Some of these will be on d isplay
at all times. Much of the new material. particularly early Californiana,
has been contributed this year by Brother Leslie E. Woodworth. And
this may well not be the most valuable of his gifts. We endeavor to obtain

200

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Our budget request for the coming year's operating expenses shows
a slight increase of $825 over the past year. This is a reflection of a
$525 increase in the fund for book purchases to permit acquisition of
some pa rticularly valuable early volumes of California Proceedings in
~dditio~ to our usual purchases of new references. The remaining $300
ts required to cover the increases in car and bus fares and lunches for
our volunteer assistant librarians, and the necessary revision for the
meetings and shipping costs category to cover higher postal rates and
a larger committee. No capital expenditures are contemplated for this
next year within our existing facilities. The budget request has been
sent to the Committee on Finance for allocation.
We cannot do better in closing this report than almost to quote the
closing from the last issue of the Proceedings: "The Commission expresses its gratitude to the Most Worshipful" Robert A. Crigler "for
the pr.i.vilege and honor of serving the Grand Lodge during his term of
office.
"Particular credit for much of our success, present and future, is
due M . W. Edward H . Siems, P.G .M .. Grand Secretary and Grand
~ibrarian,". for his assistance and guidance in our projects and his help
m t.he receipt of some most valuable gifts to the Grand Lodge; "to the
assistance of W . Verne W. Hendrix, Asst. Grand Secretary; to W.
George D. Gavin, Manager of our Temple, for his extraordinary cooperation" in our housing problems; "to W. Newcomb Candee of the
California Freemason Publication Board, and Editor, for his assistance
in accelerating the frequency of gifts and bequests to our Library and
Museum; to the many Masters of this jurisdiction who have helped
advertise our desire to serve the Masons of California and Hawaii."
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM F. POYNTER, Chairman
RUSSELL G. WORTH

GEORGE KOREGELOS

c. JOHN BELLMAN, JR.

CHARLES W. CONLEY

HAROLD S. STEIN, JR.

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTE E ON
YOUTH ORDERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M . of California:
The Youth Orders Committee would like to begin this report by
expressing our gratitude to the Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler.
Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii, for his appointments of the members of this Committee. The Youth Orders Committee
of the Grand Lodge is, in our opinion , one of the most important committees of the Grand Lodge as its primary concern is for the future

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

201

leaders of our nation. These appointments have given each of us a first
hand opportunity to continue our work and association with future
Masons and leaders of the country.
We wish also to extend our thanks to Mrs. Beatrice Atwood, Grand
Guardian of the International Order of Job's Daughters in California,
Miss Barbara Campbell. Supreme Deputy of International Order of
Rainbow for Girls in California , and to Worshipful Brothers John
Wixon and Homer Rathbun, Executive Officers of the Northern and
Southern Jurisdictions of the International Order of DeMolay, and to
their assistants for the courtesy and cooperation extended to us during
this past year.
We also extend our thanks to Buena Park Lodge No. 357 F .&A.M .
in Buena Park, the Safeway Stores facility in Oakland. and Caledonia
Lodge No. 486 F .&A .M. in Bakersfield. for hos ting our committee meetings during the year at no expense to this Grand Lodge.

Meetings and A ccomplishments
Your Youth Orders Committee held three meetings during the year.
The first meeting was held on January 4, 1969, at the Masonic
T emple in Buena Park where we reviewed the recommendatio ns of the
previous Youth Orders Committee and its unfinished work. The major
unfinished tasks were the Youth Orders publications to be completed
and a review of the rental problems facing our DeMolays. Job's Daughters and Rainbow G irls. Publications' rough drafts were reviewed.
edited and submitted to the Grand Master for his review. Additional
work was undertaken regarding rental rate surveys and a proclamation
requested by the Grand M aster was prepared. Representative s of each
youth order were guests at this meeting.
The second meeting was held on June 21, 1969. at the Safeway
Stores facility in Oakland. The Right Worshipful John Porter, representing the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing, and Beatrice Atwood, Grand Guardian of Job's Daughters, met with us. Brother Porter,
at the request of the Grand Master, presented a proposed combination
of the Finance Committee questionnaire and Youth Orders rental questionnaire. During the meeting Grand Guardian Atwood presented the
semi-annual summar'Y report of the Bethels and their rental rates. The
committee members also presented a wide range of rental rates paid by
the other two Youth Orders.
Sub-committee assignments were made to make the final drafts of
the publications for the youth orders. These were completed at this
meeting a nd subsequently distributed for competitive bids.
The Sub-Committe e for the California Freemason publication made
a recommendatio n that the three youth orders be contacted for articles
which we hope to have printed in a future issue of the California Freemason.

202

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The third meeting was held on September 6, 1969, at the Caledonia
Masonic Temple in Bakersfield at which time all matters considered at
the previous meetings were reviewed and finalized. It was decided to
present a Youth Order display in the Exhibit Hall during this Annual
Communicatio n. The above mentioned pamphlets and other pertinent
youth orders material are now on display and each of you is urged to
check this exhibit to see what our youth groups are doing.
All committee meetings were well attended and conducted in a
most friendly and harmonious manner.
In addition to the three Youth Orders Committee meetings, your
Chairman attended the two adult leaders conferences, held in Santa
Ana, as the representative of this Grand Lodge. At these meetings
numerous mutual problems affecting our three youth orders were discussed. These meetings afforded each of the orders an opportunity to
profit by the experiences of the others and to present alternate approaches to these mutual problems.
A thorough examination of records and reports obtained by the
Youth Orders Committee indicate the following problems as related to
our youth orders.
1. Rental rates
2. Adult attendance and support
3. Understanding of the California Masonic Code areas appertaining to Youth Orders fund-raising activities
Rental Rates: As indicated by many letters, visits and reports,
excessive rent continues to be a major problem. This is substantiated by
reports from the Grand Guardian, Supreme Deputy and Executive
Officers. These reports provide the following data:
Bethel No. 267, E ast 3rd St., Downey with 71 members pays $900.00
per year;
Bethel No. 62, 520 Main St., El Segundo with 38 members pays
$480.00 per year.
Bethel No. 4, W. Manchester, Playa Del Ray with 40 members pays
$480.00 per year.
John D . Spreckels chapter in the Southern Jurisdiction of DeMolay
with 30 members pays $720.00 per year and La Mirada chapter with 30
members pays $500.00 per year. Your Committee congratulates the San
Bernardino Temple Association for reducing the DeMolay Chapter rent
to $480.00 per year for the chapter. By their actions this chapter can
now continue to function and teach the young men of that city the
precepts of DeMolay.
One Rainbow Assembly was forced to pay the Long Beach Temple
Association $60.00 rent for a two- hour meeting and was told by the
secretary of the Association that he preferred not to rent to the girls
even though the temple would remain idle. It was also reported that

Southwest Chapter of DeMolay was forced to dose and relinquish its
Charter because of excessive rent by Fairview Masonic Temple Association. By the same token on the other side of the coin, those who don't
pay any rent are equally undesirable. This policy tends to undermine
the sense of self reliance and responsibility taught by the youth orders.
Your committee feels that rents should be charged but that they should
be commensurate with the youth groups' ability to pay. The Lodges
can contribute to the youth groups' treasuries by having these young
people prepare and serve dinners, by paying them to work on their
temples, etc. This will instill a sense of accomplishmen t and personal
pride within the youth order members. We recommend that each appropriate body review their rental policies concerning the youth orders
with the idea of establishing a more equitable rent rate if one is required.
Adult Support: Your Committee suggests a more diligent effort on
the part of every Mason to support the youth organizations. Adult
attendance at youth meetings and support of their activities promotes a
greater interest on the part of the youth and renders a rich reward to
each participating Mason. Such attendance and support also provides
direct communication with and results in better understanding between
all organizations concerned. The Masonic image will be greatly enlarged
and improved by your participation in our youths' activities and meetings.
Fund Raising: Problems relative to fund raising have often arisen due
to a lack of under.standing of the appropriate portion of C.M.C. :regulations governing commercialism and fund raising. Such regulations are
clea rly outlined in the 1968 Supplement to the C.M.C. beginning on
page 64. The contents of this section have been communicated to the
heads of the youth orders in this jurisdiction and it is recommended that
excerpts thereof be provided for distribution to the adult leader of each
DeMolay Chapter, Job's Daughters' Bethel and Rainbow Assembly.

203

R ecommendation
Your Committee recommends that a Standing Committee for Youth
Orders be appointed by the Masters of each constituent Lodge within
this jurisdiction. Such committee should consist of at least three members for each youth order meeting within their respective temple or, if no
youth groups meet within the temple, nearby vicinity. If no youth orders
exist within the area, it is recommended that action be initiated by these
standing committees to organize and have one or more of these youth
groups chartered. Such committee should also be charged with the
responsibility of having at least one of its members in attendance at all
Youth Order meetings and activities throughout the year. The Chairman
or his delegated representative should be required to report the activities of the youth orders directly to the Lodge at each Stated Meeting.

104

205

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

The activities of such a committee would afford a direct line of communicatio n between the Lodge and the youth orders.

new Lodges is vital to the continued growth of Masonry in California
and Hawaii.
On November 1, 1968, with the approval of the Grand Master.
bers of the Committe e made a presentati on at the annual conven~::of the California Associatio n of High Twelve Clubs at the Huntington Sheraton Hotel in Pasadena concerning the effect of new Lodges on
the membership of California M asonry. Steps to be taken to form a
Lodge were also discussed.
This is being mentioned in the Committe e Report because we £_eel
that the Committe e should be permitted to pursue this matter by makm_g
presentati ons to individual . High Twel~e Clubs and other Masonic
groups to stimulate interest m the formation of new Lodg~s.
.
The following consolidat ions have been referred to this Committe e.
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286 with San Miguel Lodge No. 285, to be
known as Paso Robles Lodge No. 286.
Alta Vista Lodge No. 464 and Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517, to
be known as Alta Vista-Mo unt Vernon Lodge No. 464.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461 and Argonne Lodge No. 514 , to be known
as Argonaut- Argonne Lodge No. 461.
The Committee on Charters recommen ds that the Grand Secretary
be authorized to endorse the respective charters to accomplish these consolidations.
The Committe e on Charters concurs in the motion of the Committe e
on By-Laws whereby the Charters of Ascot Lodge No. 538 and Dana R.
Weller Lodge No: 765 be amended to move their respec_Hve meeting
places, in accordanc e with California Masonic Code Section 373.
Respectfu lly submitted .
PHILLIP B. STONE, Chairman

Budget
Your Committee requests an appropria tion of $1500 to cover its expenses during the ensuing year. A detailed copy of the estimated expenditures has been filed with the Finance Committe e.
In closing we again extend our thanks to all concerned with this
Committe e during the past year and again urge each of you to attend
and support our youth group activities.
Respectfu lly submitted .
DOUGLAS N. CAIRNS, Chairman
ARTHUR J. PANCOOK

EUGENE HARP

}AMES B. WRIGLEY

RICHARD F . WILLIAMS

WILLIAM G. SKILLING

SHIRLEY E . PADDON

MICHAEL S ELLICK

RODNEY H. DAVIS

EDWIN F . COLLINS

FRED

ROBERT J. MATH EISON

DENNIS

Roy W. TROUTMA N , JR.

ROBERT B . CHAMBER S

w . SCURLOCK
c. LAWSON

RICHARD SIMON

LLOYD A. BuDw1G

GORDON WALKER

ARNOLD G . BROCKSEN , SR.
JoHN H. HARDY

Referred to Committe e on Finance. (Budget allocation )

REPORT OF COMMI TTEE ON CHART ERS
To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
At the 1968 Communic ation the only Lodge under dispensati on,
Palm Desert Lodge, was granted a charter and there were no carry-ove r
Lodges.
Kern River Valley Lodge was instituted August 29, 1969, and since
it has been under dispensati on for such a short period of time, they did
not petition for a charter at this Communi cation of Grand Lodge.
The Committe e met with representa tives of Kern River Valley Lodge
U .D. and examined their records. Minor changes and correction s were
suggested .
It is the unanimou s recommen dation of the Committe e that the
dispensati on be continued .
During the past year the Committee bas continued its study of
membership records. The stud·y disclosed that new Lodges formed in
the last ten years have accounted for nearly half of the new members in
California Lodges. This study supports the fact that the formation of

ROBERT A. SMITH

HAROLD M. HAND

JoHN L. SHAW

LLOYD D. HANSELM AN

ALFRED T. GRUENING

ROBERT HILTS

w. HOWELL

FRANK HOMER

JAMES

HARRY L. MAYNARD

JOHN W. PAULSON , JR.

EDWARD G. VAN PELT

BERNARD REIZNER

Adopted.

206

207

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMI TTEE ON
MASON IC EDUCA TION

approved; a few were approved as written. For various reasons, several
papers were rejected.
Two meetings of the Committe e were held-the first in Los Angeles
on January 25th, the second in San Francisco on May 24th. Sou thern
California and Central Research Lodges are represente d on this Committee, therefore Northern California and E l C amino Researc h Lodges
were invited to send a representa tive to each of the meetings. T he problems of the Research Lodge and of the Committe e were thoroughl y
discussed producing mutual understan ding and harmoniou s cooperation.
A "Suggeste d Schedule of Operation for the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Education " was submitted by the Chairman a nd
approved by the Committe e at the meeting in San F rancisco.
From the experience gained in processing Research Lodge papers
the Chairman felt that the work of the Research Lodge screening committees could be improved if guidelines were provided. A paper, " The
Duties of the Research Lodge Screening Committe e," was prepared by
the Chairman and presented at the Committe e meeting in San Francisco.
Upon approval a copy was mailed to each of the Research Lodges.
The proposed budget for the Committe e on M asonic Education for
1969-1970 in the amount of $3,330.00 was s ubmitted to the Committe e
on F inance.
The Committee on Masonic Education has become increasing ly important year by year. The services of this Committe e are denied to large
areas of our State because of the distance from a Committe eman to the
Lodge or the District where his services are needed.
From observatio n and ten years of experience on this Committee,
it has been noted that a n enigma exists among the Brothers about the
word " EDUCAT ION."
This C ommittee respectfully offers the following recommen dations:
1. That the name of the "Committ ee on Masonic E ducation" be
changed to "COMM ITTEE ON M ASON IC SERVICE . "
2. That this Committe e be made a ''Constitu tional" Committe e.
3. That the number of committee men be not less than twenty.
The inspiring leadership and encourage ment received from our
Grand Master, Most Worshipf ul Robert A. Crigler, is sincerely ap~
predated. Thank you, Worshipf ul S ir, fo r the privilege and the honor
of being a part of your most successful year as Grand Master of Masons
in C alifornia and H awaii.
It is most difficult to adequatel y express the gratitude of this Committee, particular ly its Chairman , to the Most Worshipf ul Edward H .
S iems, Pas t Grand M aster and our Grand Secretary, and to Worshipf ul
Brother Verne W. Hendrix, Assistant Grand Secretary, and to their

To the Most Worshipfu l Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Masonic education has its genesis for the candidate as he knocks
at the door of Freem.asonry for admittanc e. The process continues by
means of lectures, Ritual and coaching until he is awarded a M aster
Mason certificate. What then? Has the Lodge fulfilled its responsibi lity
when the Ritual of the Three Degrees has been conferred?
The G~and Lodge of ~alifornia answered the question by creating
th_e Committe e on Masonic Education to assist the officers of the constituent ~odges in planning programs which would instill profound understandm g of the precepts of the Fraternity .
In 1952 two Research Lodges were establishe d under special charters
to r_esea~ch Masonic subjects and to provide material and speakers in
Califor~ia and Hawaii. These Research Lodges, now four in number,
are entirely self-suppo rting. They respond to every request and their
members travel ~everal thousands of miles each year to fill speaking
engageme nts. It is regrettabl e that due to the location of the Research
Lodges, some of the Lodges in our State do not fully enJ·oy these
benefits.
. Two special charges were assigned to your Masonic Education Committee ear.ly this year by the Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler. F irst
-to obtam the names and addresses of all Master Masons raised in
t~is jurisdictio n during the year 1968. A letter requesting this informa~ion was sent to each of the 710 Lodges in this jurisdictio n. The majority of the Lodges responded . The lists were arranged in numerical order
by County and forwarded to the Grand Master who invited these
Brothers. to attend his personally conducted orientatio n program for
newly raised Masons. From all reports these eleven meetings met with
tremendou s success in all areas of our State.
Th~ second assi.g nment was to provide a speaker (Committ eeman)
to o~tlme the function of the Committe e on M asonic Education at the
speaal Officers' Orientatio n meetings held in each of the six divisions.
Your Committe e has been active in assisting Masters and Wardens
of the Lodges in orga nizing education al committee s and planning their
programs.
A seminar on Masonic Education was conducted in May for the
Masons of Humboldt and Del Norte Counties by our Committe eman
from Eureka. The Committe eman from Fresno has been working with
the T aft and Bakersfield Masons who hope to organize and petition for
a Research Lodge for that area.
. The four R~sea.rch Lodges .submitted thirty-five papers to be considered for publicatio n. The maJority of these papers were conditiona lly

208

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

office staff for the generous gift of their time (including weekends), the
use of the Conference Room and the thousand and one other services
provided for this Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
DAVID C. LEE, Chairman
ARTHUR DvoRIN
JoHN M . BowERsox
JOHN

c. BROWN

Rov E. BA TTERSHILL
M. RICHARD ANDREWS
LEWIS B. MEEK

MILTON AMMANN

DoN H. Burr

STEPHEN J. DEAN, JR.

MARVIN F. RENO

ARTHUR N. PICULELL

MARCELO E. CONCEPTION

MAURICE A. HARBAND

EVERETT TooD

Rov R. CRAWFORD

]oHN R. NocAs
LANNING F. SPIETH

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)
(NOTE: See Resolution No. 9 for action taken on Committee's
three recommendations.)
At 5: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30 a.m. Wednesday.

''

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Wedn esday, October 15, 1969
At 9:30 A.M. Grand Lodge was called on , the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Brother Bennett K. C. Ing. Senior
Warden of Schofield Lodge No. 443. (Also present in the East were
other Senior Wardens of Hawaiian Lodges.) The Grand Chaplain
delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning and afternoon
sessions of Tuesday, October 14, were read, corrected and approved.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Insurance Committee of Grand Lxige is a special committee
appointed by the Grand Master and it is responsible to the Grand Master for such duties as the Grand Master may deem desirable or necessary. Under the instructions given to us we were instructed to analyze
all of the insurance policies for Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes at
Decoto and Covina as well as the coverages for the Constituent Lodges.
the Boards of Relief and the other Masonic entities. We were instructed
to report our findings and recommendations to the Grand Master.
The lnsur.ance Committee is composed of four full time insurance
men. One is a company manager and the other three are insurance brokers. We have met several times in discussions and we have utilized
our own experience to obtain what we believe to be minimum costs and
added coverage.

1. WORKMEN'S COMPENSATIO N
In 1968 the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes changed their
workmen's compensation to a retention form of coverage. It seemed
to us that the proper and logical course of action was to change the
other compensation policy. covering the employees of Grand Lodge.
the Constituent Lodges, Boards of Relief, etc., to a similar retention
form in the same company. In this way the premiums and loss could be
combined. This has been accomplished.
If the trend of losses in 1968 continues, and we believe that it will.
you can expect a refund of as much as $35,000 at the end of the three
year plan.

2. 3-D POLICY
This policy provides for losses of money, securities and checks due
to dishonesty, destruction or disappearance.
We prepared specifications and took bids from several companies.
The specifications called for a basic fidelity coverage of $10,000
for the Constituent Lodges. etc., with an excess coverage of $490,000
on the employees of Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes.

210

For those Lodges and Temple Associations that desired more than
$10,000 we provided it.
You will be pleased to know that all of this increased protection
only cost $255.00 additional over a three year period.
3. LIABILITY AND MATERIAL DAMAGE INSURANCE
Last year the li~bil'.ty coverage, fire insurance and. paraphernalia
coverages were carried m more than ten policies and by more than one
company.
. Wit~ th_e approv~I of o~r Grand Master bids were taken on a special lnst1tut1onal Policy. This combines all of our liability and material
dam~ge requirements in one policy. This policy provides all of the
previous coverages in the previous policies. In addition some new coverages have been added. One important coverage is the OFFICERS
!'-ND TRUSTEES LIABILITY PROTECTION. In addition we have
increased the coverage on the Valuable Papers from $500 to $5,000.
We are delighted to advise you that this revision will save about
$1.500 a year.
4. TRAVEL ACCIDENT POLICY
T~is policy provides coverage for medical expenses, accidental death
and dismemberment for certain Officers and Trustees when traveling
on Grand Lodge business.
C?ur Committee has carefully examined this policy and we find that it
~rov1des adequate coverage. and that the coverages provided are more
liberal than the average similar policy.
The poli~y pr?visions and exclusions are satisfactory. We recommend that this policy be renewed in its present form.
. The Insurance Committee is deeply grateful for the invaluable assistance of the Grand Master. He made our work very much easier
.
We have incurred no expenses to Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
SAMUEL C. LEVIN, Chairman
SAMUELE. HARRIS

WILLIAM G. DEEBLE
HARRY B. KEELING

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

211

REPORT OF CODE COMMISSION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Code Commission, composed of the five undersigned members, has the responsibility of preparing the Cumulative Pocket Supplement reflecting the legislative changes made in our California Masonic
Code at the 1968 Annual Communication. In keeping with the past,
we have maintained the Supplement at approximately the same number
of pages. and in 1968 were able to effect a preparation for printing in
less time than before.
Each of the members of this Committee is also a member of the
Special Committee on Code Revision, and a report on the activities
of that Committee will be submitted separately.
For the coming year your Commission has requested an appropriation of $1,200.00 for normal activities and expenses at the next Annual
Communication. which request has been transmitted to the Committee
on Finance.
Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Chairman
ANDREW J. NocAs

ALLAN B. GRESHAM

JOHN B. WATTS

RICHARD L. RIEMER

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON AUDITING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Audit Committee, authorized by adoption in principle of the
Report of the Special Finance Study Committee at the last Grand Lodge
Communication, was appointed by our Grand Master and served during the past Grand Lodge year.
We reviewed requests for expense reimbursement, submitted to the
Grand Lodge office. and used as a guideline the recommendations and
proposed regulations set forth in said adopted Report of the Special
Finance Study Committee.
We were requested to conduct a cursory survey of the bookkeeping
and accounting procedures of the Homes and Grand Lodge offices and
to report our findings to our Grand Master. We were also directed to
prepare comparative schedules of Committee expenses for use by the
Special Finance Study Committee. Your Committee has complied with
these directives and requests.
The budget, proposed for our Committee as presently constituted.
is twenty-one hundred and fifty dollars ( $2,150.00).
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR LINSK, Chairman
JosEPH RUGGIERO

LLOYD P. BAss

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

212

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
. The Committee on Credentials submits the following report covermg the I 20th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
. First, we wi~h to express our thanks to the Grand Secretary and
his office for their full cooperation in helping us with our duties.
We respectfully report that of the 704 chartered Lodges. 671 are
represented. One Lodge under dispensation is represented. The total
registration is made up as follows:
~::;~r~~gM?~~:rs ............................................................................ 28
11
Past Senior Grand W~d~~--·················· ····································--··-·····
1
······-············--········-·-·--··········--··-··-····--·······
Past Grand Lecture
2
...........................
...........
······
rs ······---··--······-············
.
Offi

Pas~e~a:~~s.Ri~~~~~~at:~:si~ii~;i~g::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~t:~
Cspec~ors ......................................................................
P Mm1tteeme~ ..............................................................

Mas;e~~~~t~~~:r -J~ri~dl~ti~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::··········

168
155
185

Grand
Grand Lodge Officers and Past Masters of other Jurisdi~-ti~~~·-··········
(including 3 Past Grand Masters) ...............................................

ll
11

GRAND TOTAL ..................................................................-3120
Respectfully submitted,

San Francisco has been taken from the published records of the California State Automobile Association. Mileage from points in the State
of Hawaii to San Francisco has been taken from the published records
of air lines, in accordance with Sections 174 and 176, California Masonic
Code. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or
the immediate vicinity. Compensation of members from the State of
California has been computed on the basis of ten cents ( 1Oc) per mile.
the rate fixed by the Committee on Finance. Compensation of members
from the State of Hawaii has been figured on the basis of published
first class round trip a ir rate of regularly scheduled major air lines from
Honolulu to San Francisco, plus inter-island air fare to Honolulu when
necessary.
The payroll has been checked with the registration records as ~ub­
mitted to us by the Committee on Credentials and the amounts re~m~ed
to meet the transportation costs for the 1969 Annual Communication
are as follows :
6.40
Past Grand Master ............•.................... ......•................$
Representatives of Lodges .............................................. 36.238.28
TOTAL ...................................................................... $36,244.68
Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration Desk on
Friday morning immediately following the election of the Junior Grand
Warden. Brethren. if you are the Master or Warden representing your
Lodge. or the Elected Representative of your Lodge, the Pay of Members Committee would like to urge you to pick up your check.
Arrangements have been made so that those who desire to cash
their checks may do so at the United California Bank . Fairmont Hotel.
Your Grand Lodge Credentials will serve as suitable identification.
Respect fully submitted,

J. GLEN GLADSON, Chairman
HARRY F. LUTTICKEN

H. AUSTIN MAHR

LYLE

JOHN C. WHITFIELD

s. HUBBARD

EDWARD E. SMITH

JOHN W. KENNERSON

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERSTo the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Y ?ur Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covermg the l 20th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master or in his
absence, the ranking Warden or, in the absence of the Mas~er and
Wardens, the duly elected Representative and Pa st Grand Masters if
they attend Grand Lodge in such capacity only.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California to

213

MATTHEW M . CoooN , Chairman
ARCHER R. RICHARDSON

WILLIAM H. SPRINGER

HERBE RT SMITH

JACOB M. KARTZINEL

CLAUDE BLACK

DEAN H. DEWHURST

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE
ON COMMERCIALI SM
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Commercialism herewith submits its Report for
the year just ending.
Infractions of our laws. rules and regulations under the jurisdiction
of this Committee have been of minor character during this year. No
Masonic Trial resulted from any matters under the jurisdiction of this

215

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Committee. Most violations were handled by a member of the Committee whispering good counsel into the ear of the offender. Most violations by individual members have been the result of ignorance. An
example of this type of violation is a calling card of a member on which
is imprinted the square and compass. The member using these calling
cards was not using them for business or commercial purposes. However, the right to use or authorize the use of the square and compass
is the sole prerogative of the Grand Lodge.
A more serious violation was that of an energetic salesman who
made use of a Masonic Roster in order to solicit sales of automobiles.
Needless to say, such solicitation was stopped by the offender immediately upon his being informed of our rules and regulations.
We have had no problems with the Shrine Temples or Shrine dubs.
Before commencing fund raising activities, these organizations have
sought our advice. Two examples are as follows . One, a proposed fund
raising program called a "Baseball Night." The plan contemplated
Shriners' Marching Units putting on a program before the game. In
order to raise money for the Shrine Hospital. the Shrine membership
would sell baseball tickets and the owner of the baseball club would
pay_ to the Shrine a percentage of the sales price of tickets sold by the
Shrme members only-the proceeds to be given to the Shrine Hospitals. This event would have been advertised as a "benefit for the Shriners'
Hospital for Crippled Children," This advertisement would have been
included in 4,000,000 brochures distributed by the owner of the baseball club. The Grand Master submitted this proposal to your Committee for recommendation. The Committee advised that while the purpose was laudable, the activity would be in violation of Sections 333
and 334 of the California Masonic Code, to wit: approval of this type
of fund raising activity would allow the Shrine to be lending its name
to the promotion of a commercial enterprise, a professional baseball club.
The other example was a proposal to have a DeMolay group, consisting of band and singers put on a single performance for the purpose
of raising money for the DeMolay chapter, Job's Daughters and Rainbow Girls. The sale of the tickets was to be made to the general public.
The Shrine club desiring to conduct this event requested advice from
our Grand Secretary as to whether the plan would be contrary to our
rules. The Grand Secretary submitted the matter to your Committee
and it advised that the performance would violate California Masonic
Code 333 and recommended that the request for authority to conduct
the program be denied.
Audited financial reports of the Shrine football games conducted
in California and ~awaii were submitted by the Most Worshipful
Grand Master to this C ommittee which examined the same, and reported its conclusions and recommendations to the Grand Master.
In general, all of these athletic activities have been well conducted,

the costs and expenses were within ·r eason, and the net proceeds have
been paid to the Shrine hospitals.
Your Committee does not initiate investigations. Our activities commence when complaints are referred to this Committee. As to each complaint, a member of the Committee makes an investigation and finally
a report. The lack of complaints during the last few years results from
the educational procedures of keeping the leaders of the appendant or
prerequisite organizations fully informed as to our regulations and to
encourage the submission of any questionable proposals for recommendations by this Committee.
Your Committee appreciates the helpful cooperation of all of the
Inspectors and Grand Lodge officers. It has been a genuine pleasure
to have worked with them.
Respectfully submitted,
HARVEY A. HARKN ESS, Chairman

214

JAMES J. DALTON

CLARENCE E. GUFFEY

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON STUDY
FOR THE COMMUNICAT ION OF THE
FUNDAMENTA LS OF FREEMASONRY
T o the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
At the One Hundred Nineteenth Annual Communication of this
Grand Lodge. the Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp, in his message
to the Grand Lodge, voiced his great concern in regard to the "importance of building Master Masons rather than merely initiating new
members in our great Fra ternity." Under this general heading of Ma~
sonic Knowledge and Education, he commented on the "laudable goal
of imparting more knowledge of Freemasonry to our Candidates and
to those who have received the degrees but failed to take advantage
of, or even to recognize, the great lessons.'' He then recommended that
the incoming Grand Master appoint a special committee to "study the
question of how best to implement the communication of the fundamentals of Freemasonry to every Master Mason."
Compliant to this recommenda tion, the Most Worshipful Robert A.
Crigler, Grand Master, appointed this Committee, charged with the
responsibility of making such a study, and with the responsibility to
report its findings and recommendations at our next Annual Communication.
The Committee met six times during the Masonic year, engaged in
research and study, consulted with many interested brothers throughout
the jurisdiction, and made inquiry into programs and activities of other
Grand Lodge jurisdictions, consistent with the purposes for which this

216

217

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Committee was appointed. The three members of the Special Committee
are unanimous in the comments, suggestions, observations, and recommendations contained herein, and are pleased to present the following Report:

part knowledge to our membership. These included the ?istrict m:etin.g
programs. the Regional Seminars. the Masonic Education Committee s
suggested programs, a nd the work of the Research Lodges and their
availability to assist.
The Committee also reviewed the Mentor, Intender , Counsellor
programs in use in various other Grand Jurisdictions, and the programs
in the area of Masonic education being followed in some of the Grand
Jurisdictions ref erred to.
During the entire period of the Committee's studies and deliberations it was recognized that the question as to how best to implement
the communication of the fundamentals of Freemasonry must be considered under two distinct headings. namely. ( 1 ) the indoctrination
of Master Masons, and ( 2) the indoctrination of C andidates for the
Degrees. Indoctrination would differ considerably both in subject ma tter and methods of communication. Further, it is recognized that the
Candidate indoctrination, insofar as the teachings of our Ritual. is mandatory, and the enhancement of his indoctrination through the introduction of other requirements during the period of his acceptance and
receiving of the degrees could properly be made a requirement during
this period when he is most enthusiastic and receptive to learn about
Masonry and what it stands for. On the other hand, the appeal :o the
mind and for the attention of the Master Mason must of necessity be
on a different basis, and any programs developed for this category
must be of a nature that will appeal to him, arouse his interest, and develop a sense of pride, enthusiasm and responsibility for bis Fraternity.
With this preamble to our thinking, we offer the following observations and conclusions as to courses of action to achieve the objectives
of Past Grand Master Eugene S. Hopp's recommendation.

INTRODUCTION

This concern in regard to the communication of the fundamentals
of Freemasonry to our members has been expressed from time to time
during the entire history of our Grand Lodge. Typical of this concern
is that expressed by Most Worshipful William H . Howard, Grand
Master, at the Sixth Annual Communication, in the year 1855, when
he said: "Masonry is seldom or never properly understood or duly
appreciated, without suitable proficiency in the degrees from which the
candidate advances; and this proficiency does not involve merely the
ritual and its correct recital, but involves an intimate acquaintance with
the sublime truths and precepts of the Order, and a knowledge of its
origin, history, and the purposes for which it was instituted, and has
thus far been maintained. I would suggest as a means of improvement.
the establishment of Lodges of Instruction, devoted not merely to the
Ritual. but to moral and scientific attainments, and the dissemination
of useful information among the Brotherhood."
Similar expressions have been made by our Grand Masters through
the years, and our Annual Proceedings record a variety of means employed from time to time to bring about a more meaningful indoctrination of our members.
The Committee's studies included a review of the methods now
employed or available, directed toward the goals desired, such as the
Degrees, the Candidate Coaching program , the Masonic Education
Committee program, the Research Lodge activities, the articles in the
California Freemason. the articles appearing in Lodge Trestleboards, and
the Grand Lodge programs such as Public Schools Week, Constitution
Observance, Homes Endowment, Youth Orders, etc. It was recognized that in some instances the activity and methods were mandatory.
some were optional, some limited in scope, some had their effect in an
indirect manner. We explored the problem attendant upon the execution of Masonic education or indoctrination programs; these included,
that with the exception of the Ritual and Candidate's Lectures, all endeavors in this direction were noncompulsory insofar as the individual
Mason was concerned; that in many areas there was a lack of leadership in quantity to engage in comprehensive programs; the lack of interest manifested among the membership of the Lodges; the lack of
detailed and well-planned programs directed toward established objectives; and the lack of printed material available to those interested
in pursuing such a program.
The Committee reviewed the endeavors of the past designed to im-

THE INDOCTRINATION OF MASTER MASONS

We recognize that much has been accomplished toward the goal
of communicating the fu ndamentals of Freemasonry in respect to Lodge
officers. past a nd present..and those faithful sideliners who are present
at most Lodge meetings. Our concern, therefore, is primarily for the
vast number of our members who seldom or never attend Lodge, or indicate an interest in the Fraternity.
In this regard, we recognize that the successful communication of
the fundamentals of Freemasonry to the non-attender-successful in
that he would take a renewed interest in Masonry and live and act as
such-has been a long sought and seldom achieved goal in the annals
of Masonry. This Grand Lodge, and all Grand Lodges . have used
every conceivable idea to attract these Brethren back to Lodge and to
Masonry. and most will agree there has been a pronounced lack of
success in this regard.

219

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We suggest that, first. there must be a well-rounded program of
activities designed to create in the mind of the individual Mason a spirit
of fraternalism with his fellow Lodge members as a starting point; and,
secondly, that a predetermined progra m of education and indoctrination be pursued through the various means available within the Lodge.
The former suggests those activities that will appeal to the interests of
the individual members, designed to encourage their attendance, and
motivate their participation. This calls for a comprehensive program
of activities under the direction of the Master, with competent committees to carry out the assig nments.
The second element suggests a program of Masonic education and
indoctrination, utilizing the following means of communication:
A . A Masonic education and information committee, charged with
the responsibility of adopting one of the three basic programs sug~ested
by our Grand Lodge Masonic Education Committee in the Lodge Manual. We strongly urge the use of Research Lodge Personnel. or other
qualified speakers on Masonic subjects. at Stated Meeting dinner programs, perhaps quarterly; the inclusion of a five to ten minute talk on a
selected Masonic subject at each Stated M eeting, Installation program.
Roll Call meeting, 50-year Veteran Button presentation meeting, and
other special occasions; and the presentation of Masonic plays, by qualified groups.

To summarize the foregoing in regard to the education and indoctrination of the Master Mason, the Committee is of the opinion that
the structure and operation of a great many of our Lodges would have
to undergo some changes in procedures, attitudes and philosophy of
Masters and Wardens, and a broadening of the scope of activities of
the Lodges.

218

B. The use of and encouragement of Masonic publications. The
Lodge Trestleboard affords an opportunity of communicating the fundamentals of Freemasonry, because short but well prepared articles
may, over a period of time, have effect, and the reporting and commenting on Masonic events and functions arouses interest. Also the
California Freemason is a valuable instrument for this purpose and its
use as a source of education and information should be encouraged.
Further, members should be encouraged to read and subscribe to other
Masonic publications and literature.

C. Other source materials are available in the Grand Lodge Library, and the Masonic Library of Southern California. Their use by
Lodges and members should be encouraged.
D. Participation in the affairs and activities of the Lodge is an invaluable means of indoctrination and education of the individual member. The means of inducing participation of the member a t the Lodge
level include the following: (a) Indoctrina te and appoint member to
serve on Investigating Committee; ( b) Encourage degree participa tion ;
( c) Assign committee responsibilities; (cl) Encourage Candidate Coaching b?' the. member; ( e) Attendan~e and participation in Grand Lodge
functions m the area; a nd ( f) Bnng about exposure to programs and
functions of the Lodge that will appeal to the wife of the member,
and/or his family.

THE INDOCT RINATION OF CANDIDATES

In this area, the Committee believes, after long and careful study,
that efforts directed toward the education and indoctrination of the
candidate will produce the most notable results. It is during the period
of the candidate's travels through the Blue Lodge degrees that he is
more attentive and receptive to a program of indoctrination in the elements of Freemasonry that would be beneficial to both the candidate
and Masonry in general. The background for this, of course. is in the
fact that by our regulations he must give his attention to the coaching
necessary to attaining his proficiency in the candidate's lectures of the
three degrees. It was on this basis that our present candidate's coaching
program, during which, theoretically. he is indoctrinated with the contents of the valuable material contained within the Handbook for Candidates Coaches. was instituted. If the candidate coaching program,
augmented by the program originally designed to be used in conjunction with the Handbook for Candidates Coaches , were to be diligently
and effectively presented to the candidate. then we would make great
strides in achieving the goal of building Master Masons rather than
merely initiating new members in our great Fraternity.
The candidate coaching program, adopted by our Grand Lodge
in 1962, wherein the candidate is exposed to the various facets of F reemasonry by his coach during the period of his coaching sessions for
the next degree, is a laudable one. However, in practice, the fact that
it was made flexible in order to be adapted to the several ty pes of situations existing in our far-flung jurisdiction has in many instances worked
to the detriment of the program. In some instances it has been completely ignored, in others it has been followed ineffectively through lack
of dedication and interest on the part of the officers and the coaches,
despite the fact that it has been a very effective program in many Lodges
and in many districts. The Committee is of the opinion that our present
program has great potential. and that with serious application and
imagina tion on the part of those in whose hands it is entrusted at both
Lodge and District levels, it has the means to effectuate the objectives
desired.
In our search for causes of failures of the past and possible solutions
to direct our future efforts in this field, the Committee sought information in regard to like programs being carried on by other Grand Lodge
Jurisdictions. We found that their program of instruction to the candi-

220

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

dates followed a generally uniform pattern, based on four or five printed
booklets, in most cases imparted or reviewed with the candidate by a
brother assigned to the candidate for that purpose. We found that
their programs, like ours, suffered from not being mandatory. The absorption of information by the candidate was not compulsory and further. that those assigned to instruct the candidates were not required
to pass any given proficiency before being certified to instruct the candidates. The information gleaned from other Grand Jurisdictions indicates that our present program of coaching and indoctrination parallels
the efforts of the other Grand Lodges, having the same opportunities
for success, but being plagued by obvious shortcomings due to the fact
that i~ both instances a strict adherence to and execution of the program is not mandatory by the Grand Lodge regulations.
Fundamentally, the education and indoctrination of the candidate
begins with the contents of the three degrees. efficiently exemplified.
~!so, the requirement that the candidate commit to memory those portions of the degree termed "The Candidate's Lecture" is a prime manner of imparting fundamentals and principles of Masonry to the candidate. While we recognize that the mere memorizing of the words of
the candidate's lecture does not make him a well-informed and knowledgeable Mason, we recognize that the knowledge •r eceived from mouth
to ear leaves a lasting imprint upon the mind of the candidate who
receives it in the receptive mood usually prevalent during the period
of his receiving the degrees.
The contents of the booklets prepared by our Grand Lodge for
prese~tation. t~ the candidate and the many facets of Freemasonry

contamed w1thm the Handbook for Candidates' Coaches constitute a
fund of information well calculated to impress upon the candidate the
origin, the history, the principles, the teachings, and the purposes of
Freemasonry. It is with such tools as these, with a well planned procedure and a dedication on the part of the officers and coaches to fulfill
their purposes that this phase of the candidate's progress in Masonary
will be enhanced .
Another area in which the candidate may become imbued with the
fund~mentals of Freemasonry is participation in Lodge activities and
f?nctions. that h_e _may be eligible to participate in during the course of
time o_f h~s rece1vmg the degrees. His attendance at Lodge dinners, at
Constitution Observance programs, at Public Schools Week Observance, at th~ ~nnual installation of officers, at a Cornerstone Laying Ceremony, a v1s1t to one or both of our Masonic homes, attendance at a
Masonic _funeral. attendance at the Grand Master's meeting with the
~ewly raise~ Master Masons as instituted this year, becoming involved
m the candidate coaching program, and assisting in the indoctrination
co~rses and sessions, will contribute immeasurably to his Masonic education and awareness of his own opportunities.

221

After receiving the third degree, the candidate should become involved in the Lodge and its activities at once. Many avenues of endeavor are open to him, namely (a) Qualifying for his Third Degree Proficiency Certificate; (b) Assisting in t.h e ritualistic work and coaching
program; ( c ) Working on Lodge Committees; ( d) Working with one
of the Youth Groups; ( e) Attending Grand Lodge functions in the
area ; ( f) Serving on Investigating Committees; and the many other
activities and programs of the Lodge.
The Committee believes that exposure to the foregoing Masonic
experiences will give him further insight into what Masonry is all about
at the time when he is most interested and receptive. These experiences ,
together with the Ritual instruction, should make him a fairly knowledgeable Mason.
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR FUTURE CONSIDERATION OR STUDY

1. The Committee believes this Grand Lodge should give consideration to making it mandatory that a course of indoctrination be required
in each Lodge, or at the District or area level. Such course to be prescribed, and include Masonic information and education, and it be
audited by every candidate before he may become eligible to receive the
next degree. This cou.r se of instruction should include a preliminary
meeting for the candidate, to a cquaint him with the Fraternity and
what it stands for. and prepare him for a proper attitude in his approach
to receiving the degrees. It is suggested that the recommenders should
accompany the applicant tQ such a meeting, and consideration be given
to the advisability of the candidate's wife attending also. Further
sessions for the candidate's benefit would precede and follow each of
the three degrees, guided by a prescribed course of instruction based
on our available resource materials, or formats to be developed for this
purpose.
2. The program of education and indoctrination of the candidate
we envisage will necessarily slow down the frequency of the candidate's advancement through the three degrees. We submit that in
order that any such program be effective, sufficient time must be allowed
between each degree to permit the candidate's receiving the benefit of
the knowledge and information ofiered. Therefore, consideration should
be given to prescribing a waiting period between the degrees, such as
some foreign jurisdictions require, in order to obviate rushing the candidate through the degrees and short cutting this phase of his Masonic
ex perience.
3. The development of a more consistent and active program of
candidate education and indoctrination in every Lodge would necessarily result in more administrative duties and respo·n sibilities upon the

223

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Inspector. This addition of new responsibilities and duties in the hands
of the Inspector suggests that consideration be given to a re-evaluation
of the various spheres of responsibilities coming under the direction of
the Inspector, in the interest of more effective administration. A suggested solution would be for the Inspector to appoint chairmen to work
under the direction of the Inspector in such general areas of responsibility as Ritual. Candidate education and Candidate coaching; and
Lodge Administration and Activities.

tee institute such a program at the Lodge, District. or area levels, such
program to include instruction as to the member's responsibilities as a
Mason, instruction in the philosophy, principles and tenets of Masonry,
and the encouragement of participation in Masonic activities and functions of every nature. This, too, may best be approached on the basis
described above in regard to a "pilot program," in order to establish
workable guidelines.

222

RECOMMENDATIONS FOR IMMEDIATE IMPLEMENTATION

1. We recommend that Masonic Education be stressed as an activity of the Lodge and introduced into the Lodge's program and meetings, utilizing the recommended procedures and plans of the Grand
Lodge Masonic Education Committee and the suggested means of indoctrination set forth previously in this Report; and that the Masonic
Education Committee be charged with the responsibility of assisting
the Master in , or upon his direction, establishing such committees at
the Lodge and/ or District levels to achieve the purposes of the Masonic
Education Committee.

2. We recommend that further study be made of materials available, both for Lodge meeting usage and for candidate indoctrination,
as published by this and other Grand Lodge Jurisdictions. to further
efforts to achieve the goals of the recommendations of Past Grand Master
Eugene S. Hopp at the 1968 Annual Communication. We recommend
that the incoming Grand Master appoint a Committee for this purpose,
composed of representatives from the Masonic Education Committee
and the Ritual Committee and such other personnel as may be deemed
necessary.
3. In regard to Candidate indoctrination, the Committee recognizes
that no program will be universally effective through the establishment
of clearly defined and stringent procedures and guidelines irrespective
of the various geographical areas, Lodge or D istrict sizes, of which our
Grand Lodge is composed. We therefore recommend that a series of
"pilot programs" for the indoctrination of the candidate be instituted
on a selective basis by the Ritual Committee, in various segments of
the jurisdiction, based on various types of organizational responsibility.
geographical areas, and Lodge and District sizes, utilizing the existing
materials such as the Handbook for Candidates Coaches, the several
booklets issued by our Grand Lodge, and the suggestions contained
within this Report.
i. The continuation of indoctrination and education of the newly
raised candidate should be a primary objective of the Masonic Education Committee. We recommend that the Masonic Education Commit.-

5. Finally, we recommend that the Special Committee be continued,
and that the incoming Grand Master appoint such a Committee to function during the 1969-70 Masonic year, to implement the foregoing recommendations in cooperation with the Ritual Committee a nd the Masonic Education Committee, observe the steps taken, and report results,
observations, and recommendations at the next Annual Communication.
A CKNOWLEDGEMENTS

The Committee is appreciative of the services performed by the
Grand Secretary in obtaining materials and comments from other Grand
Lodge Jurisdictions, which we requested in order to avail ourselves of
their activities and experiences in the field of Masonic Education. We
are also especially grateful to those actively interested members who
shared their interesting and sometimes diverse points of view, that were
invaluable to us in developing our study and arriving at our conclusions.
Respectfully submitted,
HAROLD N . RICHARDS, Chairman

JoHN R. NocAs
DAvm C. LEE
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, on Finance,
and on Ritual.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The report of the Committee for the Study for the Communication
of the Fundamentals of Freemasonry has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes because it contains discussions
of numerous ma tters of presently existing policies, a number of plans
which the Deputy Grand Master has announced he intends to inaugurate through the Committee on Masonic Education, as renamed, and
the enumeration of some things which are being done in other jurisdictions which are not done in ours.
The report is fifteen pages in length and it is not practical to make
now the favorable comments which the report warrants. The report
will appear in the printed Proceedings and every Warden of a Lodge
should read it. We feel none can read without gaining information or
being stimulated to realization of some answers to local problems.

224

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The report recommends the inauguration of meetings to the same
or similar ends of meetings already scheduled by the Deputy Grand
Master. We do not believe the Special Committee intended duplication.
We do note an important difference. We understand the program envisioned by the Deputy Grand Master will be voluntary as to attendance,
whereas several of the programs recommended by the Special Committee would be mandatory as to attendance by Inspectors. officers or
others. Our Committee quite firmly believes that if the meetings cannot be made sufficiently interesting to command support on a voluntary
basis no service to Masonry will be rendered by making attendance
mandatory for some or all of those whose attendance is desired.
The report suggests that a solution to some problems might be to
have each Inspector appoint a chairman in general areas of ( 1 ) ritual,
( 2) candidate education, ( 3) candidate ·c oaching. ( 4) Lodge administration and ( 5) activities. Your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes does not favor the appointment of committee chairmen in
Lodges by other than the Master.
The report recommends that two special committees be appointed
for the ensuing year, one to many of the same ends as the special committee whose report we are considering and another special committee
to be composed of "representatives from the Masonic Education Committee. the Ritual Committee and such other personnel as may be
deemed necessary."

IN GRAND LODGE

It appears to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
that such a procedure would result in having three committees working
in the areas in which one of them has already been charged to plow
new ground and to plow deep. One plow working in a field can make
straight furrows from one end to the other. but three plows cannot get
comparable results unless two merely follow the leader. Further. we
would question making further demands upon the time and energies
of members of the two committees suggested as the sources of part of
one of the proposed special committees.
On behalf of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. I
move that the report of this special committee be referred to the Committee on Masonic Information and Responsibility, that this Grand
Lodge expresses its deep appreciation to the special committee for the
study and report which it has made in depth and that the reading of
the report by the officers of our constituent Lodges be recommended.
The Committees on Finance and on Ritual indicated their concurrence in the report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Adopted.
At 11 :55 A .M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Thursday.

225

MORNING SESSION-Thursday, October 16, 1969
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M .. the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful Lewis M. Burd. Master
of Rio Hondo Lodge No. 800. Grand Chaplain Kenneth A. Carlson
delivered the invocation. The minutes of the morning session of Wednesday. October 15, were read. corrected and approved.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
REPORT OF SPECIAL CODE REVISION COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
Upon the installation of The Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler as
Grand Master, he appointed a Special Committee known as the Special
Code Revision Committee, pursuant to approval by Grand Lodge of
the previous Grand Master's Recommendation No. 6.
The committee has been charged with the responsibility of preparing
a revision of the existing California Masonic Code for presentation to
Grand Lodge. The members of the committee, after due consideration
of the past work of other Revision Committees. a meeting with the
elective line Grand Lodge officers and the counsel of Bill Davis, Past
Grand Lecturer, concluded that an entire rewriting of the Code was
not necessary. It has been the efforts of this committee during the last
year to review the Code, edit. delete, and made as few substantive
changes as necessary.
Our committee has met once a month since November 1968, working on the Code, with an additional meeting with the Grand Lodge
officers. Also, each of the members has done substantial individual
work in the intervals between meetings . The work has been painstaking and therefore slow, but we are pleased to report that of the
approximately 436 sections. plus annotations. a substantial portion of
the final work has been completed. As the committee continues to work,
greater efficiency is achieved, and it is projected that the revision of the
Code may be submitted to Grand Lodge at the 1970 Annual Communication.
Your committee is also proposing that the new Code be prepared
in a loose-leaf form suitable for substitution of pages, making the

yearly amendments easier to refer to than the present Supplement.
A budget allowance of $1.500.00 is requested, which request has
been transmitted to the Committee on Finance.
We wish to thank the Grand Master and all of the members of

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Grand Lodge for the patience, understanding and assistance which
have been rendered the Committee during the last year.

Your Committee on Jurisprudence believes that the lang uage of the
original resolution should be amended as follows:
RESOLVED that the second paragraph of Section 411 of the California Masonic Code be amended to rea d as follows:
"In lieu of flowers to be sent to a Brother who is ill, or a floral piece
for a deceased Brother, when requested by his fam ily, a contribution in
his name may be made to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, and the
ill Brother or the family of the deceased Brother notified of its receipt."
We move the adoption of the resolution without recommendation.
Adopted 2/ 3rds vote.

Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Chairman

J. NocAs

RcHARD L. RIEMER

ANDREW

ALLEN B. GRESHAM

JOHN B. WATTS

Adopted. (NOTE: See Grand Masters Recommendation No. 2)

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE ORDINANCES
The following resolutions considered at the 1968 Annual Communication failed to receiue a 5/6ths uote but did get a simple majority.
The.y are up for reconsideration at the 1969 session {see Section 783
C.M.C.) and require a 2/Jrds vote for adoption.

CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENDOWMENT FUND IN LIEU
OF FLOWERS TO ILL BROTHER
1968 RESOLUTION (11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge P. & A. M. of California:
The California Masonic Code Section 112 Annotation 1 states" Refreshment funds may not be donated to the Endowment Fund."
We the undersigned recommend that this Section be now resolved to
read as follows:
"In lieu of flowers sent to an ill brother, a contribution in his name
may be made to the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund with the use of
Lodge funds. Such donations shall be acknowledged by the Homes Endowment Committee and the ill brother notified of its receipt."
Respectfully submitted,
IRVING WAPNER, M.,
ABEL TOBEY, P.M., No. 721
No. 721
JESS R. SCHNEIER, P.M.,
HAROLD ZINKOW, S. W., No. 721
No. 628
FRANK G!LFOUND, P.M.,

No. 721
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General
Purposes.
(NOTE: The Chairman of the Committee on furisprudence read
the language. of the 1968 proposed legislation, pp. 254, 255 1968 Proceedings, which follows.)

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The purpose of the proposed resolution is to allow Lodges to make
contributions to the Masonic Hornes Endowment Fund in lieu of sending
flowers to a Brother who is ill.

227

PERMIT SERVING LIQUOR AT SOCIAL AND OTHE R
GATHERINGS AND MEETINGS
1968 RESOLUTION (5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge P. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. there is a great deal of confusion as to whether or not
Lodges and other Masonic organizations can hold dinners, dinner dances
and other meetings and gatherings of a social nature in hotels. restaurants, clubs, picnic grounds and similar locations, and as to whether or
not Masonic groups may follow the usual and generally accepted social
customs at such affairs; and
WHEREAS, prior to 1964 there were no restrictions on the holding
of such gatherings in the normal American way and there will be presented to th is Grand Lodge at its 1968 Communication a statement by
the Grand Master that Masons cannot use liquor a t any dinner dance
or other social gathering which they attend in a public hotel or other
public place, which is the same as the Prohibition Amendment of the
1920's which proved to be unworkable and unenforceable and therefore
was repealed by the American people;
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESO LVED: That the following
section be added to the California Masonic Cade:
Section 324.2. Social and other gatherings and meetings. A Masonic
Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is
that a person be a Master Mason, may hold social gatherings, dinners.
dinner dances, picnics, and other meetings of a social nature or other
social events in a hotel restaurant, dining room, club. convention hall,
picnic area or other establishment at which liquor, wine or beer ma y be
used or served.
Respectfully submitted,
DoN H. ScHwIMLEY, P.M..

No. 355
HENRY

J. WOLKING, M.,

No. 355

RAYL. WHITNEY, P.M.,

No. 513

c. RAY HU N T, P.M.,
No. 5.13

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PHIL 0 . SHERPIN<i, P.M.,
THURMAN TEAGUE, P.M ..
No. 641
No. 415
SYDNEY ZAID, M .. No. 415
NORMAN SCHWARTZ, P.M ..
}AMES W. CAVE, M., No. 513
No. 19
LEED. Mt LL, P.M.. No. 355
E . H . GEBHARDT. P.M .. No. 355
RUDI F . KETTLER, JR .. M.,
THOMAS VANDEGRIFT, ].
No. 602
No. 355
VoYLESIPES, P.M .. No. 513
RUSSELL OSBORN. f .W ..
WALTER L. HOGAN. M .. No. 816
No. 513
MELVIN J. ALDERSHOFF, s.iv ..
BEN L. HoL TZENDORFF, P .M..
No. 355
No. 602
G. DoNALD MooD, S. -VV .•
PETER T. Y. H s u .f. W .. No. 816
No. 513
FREDE. GREEN, P.M .. No. 355
FLOYD H . SMITH, J.W., No. 602
lvER M. BJORK, P.M .. No. 602
MILES S. M c PHEE, S . W ..
JAMES F. DAVIDSON , P.M ..
No. 816
No. 355
MILTON ENTWISTLE. P.M ..
PHILLIP G . WooD, P .M ..
No. 355
No. 355
ENOS L. GAMET, P.M.. No. 355
JoHN B. Nt CKERSON, P.M ..
LESLIE V. ANDA, P.M .. No. 602
No. 513
ALFRED SCHERZ, P.M.. No. 602
DoN H . LAGRANGE, P.M.,
EARLE. lvEY, M .. No. 644
No. 513
DALE THORNTON, P .M..
WALLACE H. BEAUDRY, P.M ..
No. 355
No. 355
MER LE A. PLUMMER, P.M ..
No. 816
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

w ..

(NOTE: The Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence read the
language of the 1968 report of the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, including the proposed legislation. pp. 246, 217 1968 Proceedings. which follows.}
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
We are advised by a proponent of this Resolution No. 5 that it is
designed to permit the serving and use of liquor only at social functions
and events which are sponsored by Masonic Lodqes or by o ne of the
so-called "prerequisite" bodies and which are held outside of any Masonic Temple or any building owned or operated by one or more of
the "prerequisite" bodies. We are in accord with that intent. We believe, however. that the following language will best accomplish the
purpose, without chang ing any of the other provisions of our Masonic
Code relating to the use and serving of liquor:
"Section 324.2. Serving of liquor at social functions . A Masonic
Lodge, or an organization the prerequisite of membership wherein is that
a person be a Master Mason, may hold social gatherings. dinners, dinner

229

dances. picnics and other meetings of a social nature or other social
events at w hich liquor, wine or beer may be used or served. in a hotel,
restaurant, dining room. club, convention ha ll, picnic area or other establishment; provided, however, that, except for ritualistic purposes, no
liquor. wine or beer may be served in a M asonic Temple or in any building or structure owned or operated by a M asonic Lodge or any organization a prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master
M ason; a nd provided, further. that this section shall not require a
Masonic Lodge or Masonic-related organization to vacate leased premises prior to expiration of leases made in good faith. or to violate leases,
or to refuse to accept buildings so received from an estate or by gift; but
such building so received must be sold or otherwise disposed of. or
the offending use must be terminated. within a reasonable time."
In our opinion the adoption of the foregoing proposal will eliminate
any a ura of uncertainty or hypocrisy about the propriety of serving
alcoholic beverages at purely social functions held outside of Masonic
premises.
We therefore move that Resolution No. 5 be amended to read as
above indicated; that if it is so amended, the resolution be adopted; and
in that case the Committee recommends a "yes" vote upon the resolution
as amended.
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated that the amendment to the
resolution would accomplish its intent.
The amendment to the resolution was adopted.
Adopted 2/ 3rds vote.

The following resolution was presented at the 1968 Annual Com~
munication but was held over until 1969 for consideration.

SERVING LIQUORS AT MASONIC BANQUET
1968 RESOLUTION (8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS . Section 408 of the California Masonic Code has
caus ed confusion and misunderstanding;
BE IT RESOLVED : That Section 408 of the California Masonic
Code be amended by deleting therefrom the following : "nor shall any
such liquors be used or served at any Masonic banquet or gathering."
Respectfully submitted.
LEED. MILL, P.M .• No. 355
PHIL 0 . SHER PING, P.M .•
EARLE. lvEY, M .. No. 644
No. 641
DALE THORNTON, P.M..
Rum F . KErrLER, JR .. M ..
No. 355
No. 602
RAYL. WHITNEY, P.M..
DoN H. ScHWIMLEY, P.M.•
No. 513
No. 355
PHILLIP G. WooD, P.M..
WALTER L. HOGAN. M ..
No.355
No.8 16

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

VoYLE H. SIPES, P.M., No. 513
JoHN B. NICKERSON, P.M .•
No. 513
C. RAY HUNT, P.M., No. 513
MERLE A. PLUMMER, P.M.,
No. 816
NORMAN SCHWARTZ, P.M..
No.19
WALLACE H. BEAUDRY, P.M .•
No. 355
E. H. GEBHARDT, P.M., No. 355
JoHN LAMSON, P.M .• No. 816
MILES S. McPHEE, S. W .•
No. 816
HENRY J. WoLKING, M ..
No. 355
PETER T. Y. Hsu./. W.,
No. 816
SYDNEY ZAm. M .. No.115
BEN L. HoLTZENDORFF, P.M.,
No. 602
]AMES W. CAVE, M .. No. 513

MELVIN J. ALDERSHOF, S. W.,
No. 355
THOMAS VANDEGRIFT,]. W.,
No. 355
GEORGE STEWART, s. W.,
No.115
G. DoNALD Moon. S. W ..
No. 513
RussELL OSBORN. J. W.,
No. 513
FLOYD H. SMITH, s. w ..
No. 602
Jus ROSENBERG,/. w .. No. 602
MILTON R. ENTWISTLE, P.M ..
No. 355
FREDE. GREEN, P.M .• No. 355
ALFRED SCHERZ, P.M .. No. 602
ENos L. GAMET, P.M., No. 355
IVER M. BJORK, P.M .• No. 602
LESLIE V. ANDA, P.M., No. 602
JAMES F. DAVIDSON, P.M .•
No. 355

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and General Purposes.

{NOTE: The Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence read the
language of the 1968 report of the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes which included the language of the proposed legislation and
the approval of the Committee on Jurisprudence, p. 252 1968 Proceedings. which follows.)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution would strike from Section 408 of the C.M.C. the
second clause thereof which reads as follows: "nor shall any such
liquors be used or served at any Masonic banquet or gathering."
Because of the action just taken by this Communication on Resolution
No. 5, this resolution should lie over for one year. as will Resolution
No. 5.
We therefore move that Resolution No. 8 be continued for consideration at our next Annual Communication.

The Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No. 8 and
has authorized the Committee on Policy and General Purposes to report
that the resolution is approved as to form and carries out the purposes
of the proponents.
Adopted 5/6ths vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

231

SPECIAL FINANCE STUDY
1967 AND 1968 GRAND MASTERS' RECOMMENDATIONS No. 3

REPORT OF SPECIAL FINANCE STUDY COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The report of the Special Finance Study Committee (as then constituted) was adopted in principle at the October. 1968, Annual Communication of Grand Lodge ( 1968 proceedings, page 212).
In the present report, we will first call attention to certain provisions
which will apply to attendance at the Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge in October, 1969.
PAY OF MEMBERS ATIENDING ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The "pay of members" practice in accordance with C.M.C.. Section
171. ( 1968 Supp.), remains applicable to the officers and the representatives (one person only) of each Lodge, and to Past Grand Masters,
C.M.C., Section 176. provided they are not eligible under the new
policy for reimbursement of hotel and meal expenses incurred in attending.
In other words, a n officer or representative of a Lodge or a Past
Grand Master attending Grand Lodge only in that capacity, receives
his nileage, but no other reimbursement from Grand Lodge.
'Che rate for California residents has been increased from 7 cents
to 10 cents per mile. Residents of Hawaii continue to receive flrst class
air fare. etc. ( C.M.C., Section 171, 1968 Supp.)

'
EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT FOR GRAND LooGE APPOINTIVc
OFFICERS, INSPECTORS AND COMMITTEEMEN
There is a group formerly entitled to "pay of members" (C.M.C.,
Section 176) who are now entitled to transportation, hotel and meals
in attending the annual communication.
These are appointed Grand Officers, Inspectors, Chairmen of
Standing Committees and the Members of the Jurisprudence, Policy
and General Purposes, Grievances. Finance, Credentials. Lodge Financing, Pay of Members, Code Commission. Charters. Correspondence
and By-Laws Committees.
Also included are newly appointed Grand Officers, both from California and Hawaii, who attend for installation and remain for instruction.
Inasmuch as all those enumerated in the foregoing categories will
receive reimbursement on a reasonable and actual cost basis. they are
treated in a different "capacity" from the ones receiving only "pay of
members" mileage.
They may present claims and be reimbursed in due course upon
approval of their claims by the Audit Committee, for transportation,

232

233

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

lodging and meals on the basis defined in the 1968 Report ( 1968 Proceedings at page 222).
For convenience, the paragraph on transportation is here set out.
"Transportation for the person claiming. Minimum air fare, where
convenient airline schedules are available, from the closest principal
airport to destination's closest principal airport may be claimed: limousine or bus service to and from the airport may be included or parking
at the airport, and where required, car rental charges. Travel by
private automobile is optional to be reimbursed at 10 cents per mile
..., plus actual cost of tolls and parking. when the automobile is used
to transport two or more persons entitled to reimbursement, or because
no convenient airline schedule is available. Otherwise, anyone traveling
by automobile rather than by airline shall claim whichever amount is
less. If bus or train is used as an option, the minimum air fare is the
maximum allowable claim."
The allowance for lodging is the cost of the hotel or motel selected,
at single occupancy rate. which must be reasonable and actual consistent
with prices prevailing in San Francisco, or the immediate vicinity. There
is no arbitrary or fixed per diem. The Audit Committee (appointed by
the Grand Master) is conversant with the range of hotel prices in San
Francisco and whatever is reasonable and actually spent will be reimbursed.
Reimbursement for meals is on the same individual basis and will
be allowed for amounts which are reasonable in San Francisco or the
immediate vicinity, and which are actually spent by the person claiming.
The Inspectors qualify for the foregoing. both in attending the
Lodge of Instruction immediately preceding Grand Lodge, and for the
entire period during which they are in attendance at the Annual Communication.
Appointed Grand Lodge Officers are entitled also to reimbursement
for the cost of renting formal attire.
If the duties of any Chairman, Members and Consultants of Committees and Boards, not listed in C.M.C., 176, re.quire their presence
at the Annual Communication, they also are entitled to reimbursement
on the same basis for transportation. hotel and meals for the period
actually needed in the performance of their duties. If any fall in this
category it will be by direction of the Grand Master, and the Audit
Committee will be so informed. If any consider themselves required to
be present, they must be sure that it is pursuant to direction of the
Grand Master, otherwise, they will not be entitled to reimbursement.
Any Committee or Board meetings in San Francisco, immediately
preceding the Annual Communication or called after the closing thereof.
when required by the C.M.C .. or approved in advance by the Grand
Master, are subject to the reimbursement provisions. Reference may
be made to the Report, 1968 Proceedings, page 221. An example is the

required organizational meeting of the Memorial Temple Board of
Trustees "at the close of the Annual Communication." Such a meeting
is a requirement in the C.M.C.
Anyone attending such meeting will be entitled to reimbursement
to the extent only that there is no duplication of reimbursement to him
in some other capacity.
CONTRIBUTION O F LoDGES TO EXPENSES OF
INSPECTORS D ISCONTINUED

Inasmuch as Inspectors will be reimbursed by Grand Lodge for
their transportation, hotel and meals in attending the Lodge and I nstruction and on through the entire session of Grand Lodge, so long
as they remain, the action taken by Grand Lodge prohibits the constituent Lodges from contributing . and Inspectors from accepting from
the Lodges, any sums intended to apply toward the expenses of an
Inspector.
This does not prevent any Lodge from contributing through its
officers or representatives, if desired, to the actual pro rata cost of a
special breakfast or luncheon hosted by the Inspector during the Annual
Communication.
METHOD OF SECURING REIMBURSEMENT

Those entitled to transportation under the formula of "pay of
members," as set forth above in this report, including both California
and Hawaii residents, will receive checks for the appropriate amounts
upon calling as u~ual at the counter of the "Pay of Members" Committee.
All other reimbursements will be upon presentation of claims upon
the proper forms, supported by reasonably available written memoranda
or data and subject to approval by the Audit Committee.
New forms for presenting claims for reimbursement may be avail~
able, with instructions printed on the reverse s ide, but in the event they
are not, the old forms provided by the Grand Secretary's Office may be
utilized.
BOOKLET OF INSTRUCTIONS AND REGULATIONS

In accordance with the intent of the 1968 Report and consona nt
therewith, the present Committee has prepared a booklet of instructions
(rules) and regulations pertaining to expense claims, a draft of which
is annexed to this Report as an exhibit. The Audit Committee is already
working under the system set forth. However, it is intended that upon
approval by Grand Lodge, the booklet be printed and given general
distribution.
We have endeavored to keep it in harmony with the 1968 Report,
with one minor exception. The 1968 Report required (Proceedings,
page 222) that for reimbursement of travel it must be fifty miles or more
in any calendar month. Your Committee, with the advice and consent

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of the Audit Committee. based on experience during the year to date.
has concluded that this is an unimportant and sometimes confusing
restriction. We recommend that it be eliminated, and have omitted it
from the Instructions and Regulations.

RULES

234

and
REGULATIONS

SURVEY OF COMPARATIVE DISBURSEMENTS FOR
COMPARABLE PERIODS 1967-1968 AND 1968-1969

pertaining to

For lack of complete information and because a full year's experience
is not yet available for comparison, it is not possible to state or to forecast with accuracy how much increase over the previous year is
involved in operating under the 1968 Report. However, it is the consensus of the present Committee, which is concurred in by the Chairman
of the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance and the Chairman of the
Grand Lodge Audit Committee, that the budgetary allowances and per
capita ·r ecommended by the Committee on Finance and adopted at the
1968 Communication by Grand Lodge will be adequate for operations
contemplated by the 1968 Report of the Special Finance Study Committee, as it has been and is being interpreted and administered at the
present time.

EXPENSE CLAIMS

ALLOCATION OF EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENTS
Your Committee construes the adoption of the 1968 Report, and
the action of the Committee on Finance in establishing a per capita
calculated to provide the increased funds necessary to cover reimbursement for those attending the Annual Communication, as a mandate
that all reimbursement for such attendance be allocated and classified
in the general cost of the Annual Communication.
None of it should be charged against committee budgets. To do so
would in many cases create an imbalance, as at least some budgets did
not provide for this expense. It is better to make a single accounting
adjustment, if one be required, that of the cost of the Annual Com munication, than a plurality of adjustments in committee budgets.
PROPOSED LEGISLATION
Some of the recommendations adopted in principle at the 1968
Annual Communication should be, and certain ones necessarily must
be. adopted as legislation to become fully and perma nently effective.
Your present Committee, therefore, has drafted legislation which
it deems to be desirable to carry out the full intent of the 1968 Report.
a nd presents such proposed legislation as an exhibit to this present
Report, in the form of a Resolution, and recommends that it be adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER. Chairman
WILLIAM H. PRICE
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER
ELBERT W . DAVIS
ARTHUR LINSK

235

for
GRAND LODGE OFFICERS
INSPECTORS
MEMBERS OF CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
MEMBERS OF GRAND LODGE COMMITTEES

INDEX

Use Trauel
Page. Paragraph Expense V oucher
Audit Committee
Duties, etc.
2
Definitions
3, 4
General Information and Instructions 2, 3
Provisions for Reimburse ment
Grand Master
4
Deputy Grand Master
4
Senior Grand Warden
4
4
Junior Grand Warden
Grand Treasurer
4
Grand Secretary
4
Grand Lecturer
4
Grand Chaplain
5
Assistant Grand Lecturers
4
Grand Orator
5
Grand M arshal
5
Grand Tiler
5
5
O ther Appointive Officers
Inspectors
5
5
N ewly Elected Officers
Newly Appointed Officers
5
Board and Committee Members 5
Members from Hawaii
6

A
B
B
B

B
B

c
D

c

D

D
D
E
F
G

G
H

Form A
Form A
Form A
Form A
Form A
Form B
FormC
Form B
FormC
FormC
For mC
Form C
FormD
Form A
Form C
Form E
(according to
categories above)

236

237

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Audit Committee
The Grand Master, in accordance with the Special Finance Study
adopted at the 1968 Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, has
appointed an Audit Committee empowered to approve, modify. or
disallow expense claims. The member requesting reimbursement of
expenses may request a review of the Audit Committee's decisions. The
Grand Master or an elective Grand Lodge officer designated by him will
review the member's request and the decision made by the Grand Master
or the Officer designated by him shall prevail. If the Audit Committee
be uncertain as to the correctness of requests for reimbursement, it
should request a review by the Grand Master or his designated Elective
Officer. Generally, the Audit Committee should satisfy itself that the
claim submitted is in accordance with the rules set forth herein and is
correctly computed.

Definitions:
"Necessary Expenses" as the term is used herein are de.fined as
follows:
1. They include:
(a) Transportation: for the person claiming. Minimum air fare,
where convenient airline schedules are available, from the closest principal airport to destination's closest principal airport may be claimed:
limousine or bus service to and from the airports may be included. or
parking at the airport, and where required, car rental charges.
Travel by private automobile, plus actual cost of tolls and parking,
is optional. when the auto is used to transport two or more persons
entitled to reimbursement OR because no convenient airline schedule is
available.
Otherwise, reimbursement shall be made on the basis of mileage or
airline fare, as previously described, whichever amount is less. If bus
or train is used as an option, the minimum air fare is the maximum allowable claim.
(b) Lodging: allowed when an overnight stay is essential to the
schedule of event attended, or prudence suggests by reason of adverse
flight or weather conditions, or when the lateness of adjournment hour
of the event would result in arrival at home after midnight. Allowance
shall be for reasonable and actual cost consistent with the location of
the function where the expense is incurred.
( c) Meals: allowed when the normal periods for meals occur while
away from home dl!ring the period required to complete the round trip.
The rules for reasonable and consistent costs apply as described in the
section referring to lodging.
( d) Long distance telephone calls essential to performance of duties,
and postage.
( e) Secretarial service and other expenses , only when previously
approved by the Grand Master or his designated liaison officer.
2. Necessary expenses do not include expenses incurred by reason
of unnecessary early arrival for any event or unnecessary stay after the
event.
3. Under special circumstances the Grand Master may authorize
deviation from the restrictions imposed by the foregoing definitions .

General Information
All requests for reimbursement of expenses from properly authorized
Grand Lodge Officers. Inspectors and Committee and Board Chairmen
and Members, should be submitted at least monthly.
Vouchers or receipts for expenses generally are available upon
request from those furnishing goods or services-such evidence should
accompany the request for reimbursement.
The rate of "mileage" is determined by Grand Lodge at the Annual
Communication. Until further action, the rate of 10 cents per mile fixed
at the 1968 Annual Communication will remain in effect.
Requests for reimbursement must be submitted on the forms supplied
by the Grand Lodge. All appropriate entries should be made legibly
and accurately.

NOTE: One column of the Travel Expense Voucher form is devoted
to defining the Grand Lodge activity which necessitated the expense.
It is necessary, in every case, to fill in this column. Failure to do so may
delay reimbursement.
All members of the Grand Lodge entitled to reimbursement of
expenses incurred in Grand Lodge business are, because of the very
nature of our Fraternity, expected to use reasonable judgement and
caution when creating expenses.
Unless authorized in advance by the Grand Master, expenses submitted by a member shall not include expenses for the member's wife.
If a member's wife accompany him, the member shall be entitled to
reimbursement for lodging, as hereinafter defined, on the basis of the
room rate for single occupancy.
Members of Committees which have no prescribed duties to perform
during the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge are not entitled to
travel reimbursement as committee members.

Provisions for Reimbursement
The budget is intended to provide for reimbursement to be made as
follows:
A. For the Grand Master's expenses in discharging the duties and
all other functions of his office, in such amount as the Deputy Grand
Master (incoming Grand Master) shall request. The Grand Maste.r
need render only a general account of expenses incurred by him.

238

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

B. For Depu ty Gran d Mast er, Senio r Gran d
Ward en, Junior Gran d
War den, the Gran d Treasurer and Gran d Secr
etary 's expe nses in discharg ing the dutie s and all othe r functions of
their offices, an appr opria te
sum to reimb urse them. as reque sted by the
Depu ty Gran d Mast er. For
this purp ose, their dutie s and functions shall
be cons trued to inclu de all
trave l and all appe aranc es made as the incum
bent of the respe ctive office
they hold. The Audi t Com mitte e shou ld appr
ove for paym ent all expens e claims prese nted by these officers whic
h they certi fy were incur red
in the disch arge of their dutie s and functions,
exce pt that if the Audi t
Com mitte e is unce rtain as to the prop riety
it may reque st revie w as
prov ided herei n.
C. For the Gran d Lectu rer and Assis tant Gran
d Lecturers, expe nses
in the disch arge of their specified dutie s and
othe r functions, an appr opriat e sum to reim burse them . For this purp
ose, their dutie s and functions shall be cons trued to include, m addit
ion to atten danc e at all
Com muni catio ns of the Gran d Lodg e, all
trave l and all appe aranc es
made as the incum bent of the respe ctive
office which they hold, includi ng, but not limited to, Gran d Lodg e cerem
onies occu rring withi n
their respe ctive divisions. and other wise upon
the invit ation or direc tion
of the Gran d Mast er. The Audi t Com mitte
e shou ld appro ve for payment all expe nse claims prese nted by the Gran
d Lectu rer and Assi stant
Gran d Lectu rers, when the Gran d Lect urer
certifies that his or the
Assi stant s' expe nses were incur red in acco
rdan ce with the foreg oing
provi sions , exce pt that if the Audi t Com mitte
e is unce rtain as to the
prop riety . it may reque st revie w as prov ided herei
n.
D. For the Gran d Chaplain. the Gran d Orat
or. the Gran d Mars hal
and the Gran d Tiler, an appr opria te sum
to reim burse them for their
nece ssary expe nses in disch argin g their dutie
s as presc ribed by the
C.M .C.. and for trave ling to and appe aring
at any Gran d Lodg e Com muni catio n, or elsew here, at the direction of
the Gran d Mast er. Thei r
certificates of comp lianc e with the foreg oing
provi sions , show ing approv al by the Gran d Mas ter, shou ld be deem
ed sufficient for allow ance
by the Audi t Com mitte e.
E. For the othe r one- year Appo intiv e Offic
ers. an appr opria te sum
to reim burse them for their nece ssary expe nses
in disch argin g the dutie s
of their offices, inclu ding trave lling to and appe
aring in all Gran d Lodg e
Com muni catio ns when requ ested to do so
by the Gra nd M aster ; also
the cost of renti ng formal attire for the Annu
al Com muni catio n of the
Gran d Lodg e. Thei r certif icate s of comp lianc
e with the foregoing provisions. show ing appr oval by the Gran d Mast
er. shall be deem ed sufficient for allow ance by the Audi t Com mitte e.
F. For the Inspectors, an appr opria te sum
to reim burse them for
their nece ssary expe nses in disch argin g the
dutie s of their office, whic h
shall inclu de trave l to and atten danc e at their
respe ctive Divis ion Con-

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

239

their respe ctive scho ols of instru ction s, other
confe rence s in
ferences .
· hon
tion with the ritua l. the Annu al C omm unica
·
fG
o
ran d Lod ge,
Gnn eJ Lodg e ceremonies held in their respe ctive
division when requ ested
ra~end by the Assi stant Gran d Lect urer or any hig~e
r ranki ng Gran d
~~ e Officer. Atten danc e at other functions is not
reimbursable, e~cept
autho rized by the Gran d Mast er. ~he certif
icate of an. Ass1st~nt
Gran d Lectu rer, or an elect ive officer of highe
r rank, of compltan.ce with
this provision, will be deem ed sufficient for allow
ance by the Audi t Com mittee.
G. For newl y elect ed or appo inted Gran d Lodg
e Office~s an app~oriate sum to reimb urse them for their nece ssary
expe nses m attei:d~ng
~he Annu al Com muni catio n on the day of Installa~i
on an~ rem.ammg
for instru ction as requi red. Thei r certificate of
comp lianc e with this
vision, show ing appr oval by the Gran d Mast
er. shall be deem ed su dent for allow ance by the Audi t Com mitte e.
H. For chairmen, members. and consultants
of ~ommittees and
boards an appr opria te sum to reimb urse them
for their nece ssary ex~
pens es:
I
( 1) In atten ding the Annu al Com muni catio
. d t·
n on y w hen t he1r
u 1es
require their prese nce there , and only for the
perio d actua lly need ed
in the perfo rman ce of such dutie s.
( 2) In atten ding interim comm ittee meeting.
providing such meet ings are requi red by the C.M .C. .or ~re appr
oved fn adva ncd by th~
Gran d M aster or the liaison elective lme office
r assig ned to such c~m
mittee, and only for .the perio d actua lly need ed
in atten ding such mettm g.
( 3) In cond uctin g inves tigat ions.
( 4) For essen tial long dista nce telep hone calls.
posta ge and other
nece ssary incid ental items .
A certificate by the comm ittee or boar d chair
man of compliance wit~
this provision shall be deem ed sufficient for
allow ance by the Audi t
Com mitte e.

wh!

Pffi-

Mem bers from Haw aii
.
.
A. Allow ance to Haw aiian Breth ren for expe
nses incur red for m~
struc tion in the ritua l to be conti nued .
B. Haw aiian Inspe ctors shall be reim burse
d on the same f_or~ula
as Calif ornia Inspe ctors when atten ding the
An~ua
.l Con:imunicati~n,
and in the perfo rman ce of their regu lar dutie
s w1thm their respe ctive
M asonic distri cts.
C. The incumbent Gran d Lodge Officer from . Haw
aii ~hall be reimbu rsed for his nece ssary expe nses (as defin
ed) m atten ding the An~
nual Com muni catio n.
D The newl y appo inted Gran d Lodg e Offic
er from Haw aii shall
be rei.mbursed for his nece ssary expe nses (as
defin ed) in atten ding the

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

installation of officers at the Annual Communication and remaining for
instruction.
E. Committeemen from Hawaii shall be reimbursed for their necessary expenses (as defined) in attending committee meetings in California when required to do so. The chairman of all committees with
Hawaiian members thereon shall consult with the Grand Master in
advance as to the necessity of attendance of all members of the committee involved at that particular meeting.

clause "which shall be passed upon by the professional auditors as provided in section 191," and by inserting in lieu thereof the following:
"which shall be approved by the Audit Committee, or as may be otherwise provided in this Code."
( 1) Repeal sec. 175 of the C.M.C.
( 5) Amend C.M.C., sec. 176, to read as follows:
"Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors, committeemen and members of
Constitutional Boards shall receive reimbursement for their necessary expenses in performance of their duties as provided in rules
and regulations approved by the Grand Master or adopted by
Grand Lodge; the Past Grand Masters not entitled to reimbursement as committeemen or members of Constitutional Boards, shall
receive reimbursement for their necessary expenditures for transportation to and from each Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge, in the same manner as ordered for officers or representatives of Lodges; but no one shall receive payment in more than one
capacity: and further, each Inspector shall produce the certificate
of the Grand Lecturer that the Inspector has attended the Lodge
of Instruction held by the Grand Lecturer immediately prior to the
Annual Communication."
( 6) Add to C.M.C., sec. 193, the following paragraph:
"The budget prepared by the Committee on Finance shall in clude
any supplementary appropriations made by the Grand Master,
and shall estimate and make provision for the reimbursement of the
expenses of Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters, Inspectors, committeemen and members of Constitutional Boards, in accordance with the rules and regulations approved by the Grand
Master or adopted by Grand Lodge."
( 7) Add to the C.M.C. a new sec. 207 to read as follows :
"The Grand Master shall appoint an Audit Committee consisting
of th ree or more members, whose duty it shall be to audit a nd approve payment of expenses and claims for the reimbursement of
expenses of Grand Lodge Officers. Past Grand Masters, Inspectors.
committeemen and members of Constitutional Boards, in accordance·
with r ules and regulations approved by the G rand Master or a dopted
by Grand Lodge; which shall provide that disallowance or modification of any claim may be reviewed, if requested by the member
presenting the claim or by the Audit Committee, by the Grand
Master or by an elective Grand Lodge officer designated by him:
the decision on such review to be final; provided, however, that
the expenses of the Grand Master shall not be subject to approval
by said committee, nor be circumscribed by any subordinate officer
or any committee."
( 8) Repeal secs. 218 and 266 of the C.M.C.

LEGISLATION RECOMMENDED IN THE FOREGOING REPORT
OF THE SPECIAL FINANCE STUDY COMMITTEE

The following amendments to the California Masonic Code are
proposed by the Special Finance Study Committee to effect its recommendations which were adopted in principle at the 1968 Annual Communication. ( 1968 Proceedings, pp. 59, 231 )
(a) To effect the recommendations as to Lodge expenditures:
( 1 ) Amend that portion of C.M.C .. sec. 109. contained within the
parentheses, to read as follows:
" (except that where funds are donated and accepted in trust for
any proper specific purpose, they may be used for it; and except
that gifts or bequests to a Lodge which are not limited to specific
purposes may be used by the Lodge for any purpose permitted by
the Committee on Lodge Financing and approved by the Grand
Master)."
(2) Add to C.M.C .. sec. 112, the following paragraph:
"The following expenditures, among others, shall be deemed to
be for the promotion of fraternal intercourse; contributions to the
expense of a district association breakfast or luncheon at Grand
Lodge; and also contributions to Masonically affiliated youth organizations."
(b) To effect the recommendations as to Grand Lodge expenditures,
the following:
(I ) Amend the last paragraph of C.M.C .. sec. 161, to read as follows:
"Each Inspector shall be entitled to reimbursement by Grand Lodge
for his necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his official duties, including attendance at the Annual Communication,
upon presentation of an itemized claim; but no Lodge or district officers' association shall pay or reimburse the expenses of an Inspector."
(2) Amend C.M.C .. sec. 116, subd. 3, to read as follows:
"3rd. To make transfers of funds under such regulations as may
be provided by Grand Lodge."
(3) Amend C.M.C., sec. 150, subd. 17th, by striking the final

211

242

243

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(NOTE: After presentation of the above Rules and Regulations
the Special Finance Study Committee submitted the following amendment.)

independent of Grand Lodge and were unsupervised until the present
Board of Control was established to supervise and regulate their
activities.
It has been our standard policy under a system of reciprocity with
the other Grand Jurisdictions, that properly authorized monetary relief
to a Sojourner in need would be reimbursed to the local Lodge from the
Lodge of the Sojourner's membership upon notification of the amount
expended.
We have to remember that a Sojourner or visiting Mason is required
to be a regular Master Mason who is a member in good standing of a
Lodge under our Grand Jurisdiction or of another Grand Jurisdiction
which bas friendly relations with our Grand Lodge and who is residing
or sojourning beyond the jurisdiction of his own Lodge but within the
jurisdiction of the Board of Relief to whom he has appealed for assistance.
The Boards of Relief are authorized to furnish to the distressed
Sojourner, his widow or orphans necessary food, clothing. shelter and
those services which a Lodge would normally provide.
The temporary relief authorized between actual meetings is limited
to any one person not to exceed $25.00 unless the expenditure is made
or the indebtedness incurred in advance at the request of the Sojourner's
Blue Lodge, to be refunded to the local Lodge making the disbursement.
When a request is made for relief or a Masonic burial. the. Board
of Relief is required to communicate with the sojourner's or visiting
Brothers Lodge. verify his good standing and request permission to
furnish relief or a Masonic funeral with any incidental expenditure for
flowers. newspaper notices or any other required charges. All such
disbursements are to be billed and repaid by the sojourner's home Lodge.
The metropolitan areas have drawn the largest proportion of Sojourners, so the burden of satisfying their immediate needs in the past
has been the responsibility of the local Boards of Relief. There has
been, however, a continuous decline in the number of reques ts for
relief by Sojourners. This is attributed to the rapid growth and extension of local. state and federal governmental relief systems such as
Social Security, Disability Insurance and Unemployment Insurance
Benefits. Because of these modern social aids today, there has been an
almost lack of bona fide requests from Sojourners. Any request has
been for minor occasional temporary assistance payments, pending
arrangements for more permanent w elfare aid in some form. Thus in
our present affluent society, there is some type of assistance available
to nearly all persons in need from the "cradle to the grave."
Requests have been made to Boards of Relief and expenditures incurred by them without authority to persons not identifiable as Master
Masons. We do not believe that it was ever the intent of Grand Lodge
that Boards of Relief should: 1 ) Operate as a travelers aid for the

.

RESO~VED, that page 5, paragraph 3 of the Rules and Regula-

tion~ .pertaining to Expense Claims be and hereby is amended by the

addition thereto of the following paragraph :
Also the Grand Master or, by his designation . the Deputy Grand
Master shall annually re-examine the subject of the prevailing range
of costs of lodging and meals in the San Francisco area and, upon consultation with the Committee on Finance and the Audit Committee. shall
determine the maximum amount for these items which shall be considered "reasonable" under Definitions I (b) and ( c) in connection with
attendance at each Annual Communication beginning in 1970. Such
determination shall not apply to expenses incurred in connection with
events other than Annual Communications.
By separate actions the amendment was adopted and thereafter the
amended report was adopted.
(NOTE: Also see Resolution No. 40.)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
SOJOURNER RELIEF AND BOARDS OF RELIEF
1968 GRAND MAsTER's RECOMMENDATION No . 2
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In accordance with the recommendation of Grand Master Eugene
S. Hopp in his message to the 1968 Grand Lodge Communication, the
Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler, Grand Master of Masons in
California and Hawaii in 1969, appointed a Special Committee to study
and evaluate Sojourner Relief. how it should be organized and how
Boards of Relief should be maintained. This Speci~l Committee was
instructed to make a thorough study and report to the 1969 Communication its conclusions and recommendations.
The Special Committee has held many meetings. visited all of the
larger metropolitan cities, examined the reports of all of the Boards of
Re~ief submitted to the Board of Control. and reviewed the history of
Soioumers and their relief in California and Hawaii.
.We have fou~d that fro~ the formation of our Grand Lodge a
policy was established to relieve the necessary. immediate distress of
Sojourning brethren and their families. Because there was little or no
assistan.c~ ~vailable from any source to strangers in the community, the
respons1b1ltty for this assistance was primarily that of the individual
Lodge to whom the Sojourner appealed for help.
In the large cities, the Lodges began to form a joint Board of Relief
as the most efficient manner to perform this service. The Boards of
Relief increased in number with the passing years. They operated

244

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

convenience of servicemen and tourists if they do not qualify as a
Master Mason in good standing, who being away from home and finding themselves in a position requiring temporary financial assistance
because of indiscreet dissipation of funds, 2) Compensate in an indirect
manner a Past Master or a Worshipful Master for expenses incurred
to officiate or conduct a funeral for a Sojourner at the request of a
mortuary, 3) Act as a fiduciary for a Sojourner, 4) Maintain cemetery
plots for future use of Sojourners. 5) Use Board of Relief funds for
unauthorized social events. 6) Give Christmas gifts, 7) Draw additional
compensation from other concordant bodies, 8) Have a Secretary who
draws a pension in addition to the regular Board of Relief salary, 9)
Have a Secretary who receives additional monetary benefits in addition to the regular salary, 10) Do acts which would be illegal for a
constituent Lodge to do.
In our opinion the matter of relief as it is being presently administered by the various Boards of Relief is too loose and uncoordinated.
Many unauthorized functions have been created as activities to justify
their existence.
Since Boards of Relief now have only a small administrative function, we believe that their existence and the burdening of Lodges with
their expense is a matter for serious consideration. Our investigation
has revealed that because of this small administrative function, and the
steadily declining legitimate requests for relief, we are of the opinion
that all Boards of Relief should be abolished. Our conclusions are
supported by the introductions of Resolutions No. 14 and 15 submitted by the Secretaries of two of the larger Boards of Relief in the
state - San Francisco and East Bay, asking you to increase greatly,
the expansion of their duties in order to justify the existence of Boards
of Relief. The expanded duties asked for extend far beyond those
now authorized in the California Masonic Code, would increase the
expenses of the Board of Relief and the name would have to be changed
to cover entirely new involvement of activities.
This Special Committee after prolonged investigation and mature
discussion, have concluded and do unanimously recommend as follows:
1. That all Boards of Relief be abolished.
2. That this be accomplished by June 30, 1970.
The undersigned are grateful to the Most Worshipful Robert A.
Crigler, Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii, for the
opportunity of service afforded them in this special assignment.
We move the adoption of this report and the recommendations
therein contained.
Respectfully submitted,
DE WALD BAUM. Chairman
ERNEST M. NEWTON

245

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

JAMES E. WELLET

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The comprehensive and serious report of this Special Committee
has been referred to your Committee on Policy and ~eneral Pur~o~es.
Two basic ideas are contained in the report. The first is, that the original
purpose for which Boards of Relief were instituted no lo~ger exists.
The duty is performed by a variety of governmental ag~nci~s. If any
task remains at all for the Board of Relief in this area, 1t might be to
direct the Brother needing relief to the proper governmental agency.
The second idea in the report is that the Boards of Relief have
assumed a variety of duties which were never actually as.signed to t~em
by this Grand Lodge. These duties. include b_lood-~ankmg; ar.ra~~ 1~g .
in urban areas, Masonic funeral services for soJournmg Masons, v1s1t~ng
the sick, dispensing Masonic information, assisting in the preparation
of Masonic Homes applications for out-of-town Lodges and for other
Grand Jurisdictions, etc.
Your Committee agrees that. in the main, the original relief duty
of these Boards is gone. We also heartily approve of the efforts of this
Grand Lodge to establish a State-wide blood bank system. Your
Committee believes, however, that many of the other functions assumed
by Relief Boards are vital functions for Freemasonry and were p:rformed by the Boards because no other Masonic agency was performing
them and because they needed to be done. The problem of what to do
about these functions will not be solved by abolishing the Boards of
Relief. Amputation is radical treatment for a hang-nail.
your Committee feels tha t a determination should be made of those
activities of Boards uf Relief which are essential for Masonry and after
provision has been made for continuing those . activities. by whatever
name the Board may be given. then the continued existence of the
Board of Relief as such can be decided. Included in this study should
be the question of jurisdiction-wide support for activities that may be
centered in urban areas.
Your Committee therefore recommends that Boards of Relief be
continued until such time as the problems described above are resolved.
I so move.
Adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
BLOOD BANK AND SOJOURNER RELIEF
1968 GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATION No. 2

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In his message to the 1968 Grand Lodge Communication . the then
Grand Master Eugene S. Hopp. recommended that a Special Committ.ee
continue the study of Blood Banks. Sojourner Relief and the entire

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Board of Relief system with a particular view to recommend to Grand
Lodge at its annual Communication in 1969, ( 1) how Blood Banks
should be organized, ( 2) the manner of the organization of Relief,
( 3) what areas should be covered beyond those of Sojourner relief. if
any, and ( 4) how the Boards of Relief should be maintained financially.
. Pursuant to this recommendation, the Most Worshipful Robert A.
Crigler.' Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii, appointed
a. Special Co.mmittee charged with the responsibility to study the questions so designated and to formulate conclusions and answers to be
presented to the Grand Lodge at the 1969 Communication.

therefore have a current balance of all Lodge Blood Fund Accounts at
any given time.
The Blood Bank Chairman of each Lodge or his assistant designated
by the Worshipful Master, would be the person authorized to release
Blood Bank credits only upon the order of the Worshipful Master .
Withdrawals should be restricted to the "immediate family" and this
should be defined as the Lodge member, wife, widow and minor children of the Lodge member. Any person, whether a Lodge member, his
immediate family or a friend, should have the right to make a deposit
for the Lodges' account. This would permit replacement of withdrawals
by outsiders if a Lodge member is medically unable to make a deposit
in the Blood Bank.
We believe that the blood needs of a sojourner should be the responsibility of the Lodge within the jurisdiction of the sojourner's residence.
The Lodge's Blood Bank Chairman should through the Lodge's Secretary communicate with the Sojourner's Lodge and endeavor to procure
replacement of the blood used by its member.
If a Lodge member is medically unable to donate or secure donations
to replace any withdrawals used for his or his immediate family use, he
should have the right to make a cash donation to Grand Lodge who
shall immediately purchase blood credits covering the withdrawal. The
blood credits so purchased shall be for the credit and deposited in the
Blood Bank Account from which the withdrawal is made.
We have personally contacted all of the principal offices of the
American National Red Cross and the American Association of Blood
Banks in the States of California and Hawaii that now have a Masonic
Blood Bank account and they are of the unanimous opinion that this
plan for a Blood Bank for the entire Grand Jurisdiction is not only
feasible, easy to set up, but will secure more substantial donations
because of its opportunity for use by the 240.000 Masons in California
and Hawaii. With a Grand Jurisdiction Blood Bank, Grand Lodge
would be in a position to shift necessary credits in an emergency to the
place of need which could then be replaced. This system would also
present a unique opportunity for obtaining additional deposits for
Lodges now without a Blood Bank.
Under the system proposed there would be an awakening of
every member of each Lodge to the vital and growing need for voluntary
blood donations. The paperwork would be simple. Each time a
donation is made to a Lodge account, the Chairman will receive from
the Blood Bank a copy of the donor's receipt for the blood given. Each
month an activity report will be mailed to Grand Lodge on which will
be recorded the following information in condensed form :
1. The number of donations and to which Lodge Blood Account
they have been credited.

The Special Committee has made an exhaustive examination with
the assistance and cooperation of the American National Red Cross and
the American Association of Blood Banks in the States of California
and Hawaii (all Auxiliary Blood Banks being associated with either
~ne of these societies). of the inquiry imposed regarding the organization of Blood Banks. We herewith submit our report and our recommendations thereto:
. Every part of our body depends on blood for survival. Blood and
its use in medicine is incalculable in value. It has saved millions of lives
and the. demand for it has increased with the passage of each year.
Every six seconds in the United States a team of medical specialists
perform~ one of the most vital of all operating procedures - a blood
trans fusion. Som~ 20?0 gallons of blood are used daily for this purpose.
When a transfusion 1s needed, the existence of a blood bank is most
essential and necessary.
We recommend that a Grand Jurisdictional Masonic Blood Bank
for California and Hawaii should be established under the supervision
~f the Grand ..M~ster ..A Blood Bank functions in the same way as a
money bank with units of blood as the medium of exchange. Blood
for transfusions can come only from people. It cannot be manufactured.
When blood is needed, donors must give it. Although the need for
blood is. ~rowing in our State at a rate of 14 % a year, only 3%
of the eligible donors are now giving it. Blood is deposited in advance
of need and loaned to patients requiring transfusions. The borrowed
blood is then replaced in the Blood Bank for the necessary use of others.
The procedure for setting up such a Blood Bank should be as follows:
. . E ach Masonic Lodge in the Grand Jurisdiction should establish.
if 1~ .does not now have one, a Blood Bank Account with its local
aux1~1ary blood center. Each Lodge should appoint a Blood Bank
Chairman who.se responsibility it would be to release the proper credits
to members eligible to participate in the plan only upon the order of
the Worshipful Master of his Lodge. A copy of all deposits and withdrawals from the Blood Bank would be forwarded to Grand Lodge by
the local blood center at the end of each month. Grand Lodge would

247

248

249

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

2. The number of withdrawals from each Lodge Blood Account
and by and to whom given.
3. The number of credits, if any. transferred to either the Home
for the Aged at Decoto or the Home for Children at Covina.
4. The number of credits which will be expiring because of outdated
storage and not used.
5. The current balance of each Lodge.
6. Unusual blood types available to meet an emergency need.
\:Vhen a Lodge member or an immediate member of his family
reqmres blood, the Lodge member simply contacts the Lodge's Blood
Bank Chairman or his Assistant Chairman and tells him the name of
the patient, the patient's home address, where he is hospitalized and
how much blood is needed.
The Chairman or Assistant Chairman then notifies the Worshipful
Master of the Lodge of the need for a withdrawal from the Lodge's
Blood Bank and secures his consent to such withdrawal. The American
National Red Cross or the auxiliary of the American Association of
Blood Banks is then authorized to charge the Lodge's Blood Bank with
the necessary withdrawal and they will do the rest of the work to see
th_at ~he blood is delivered where needed and on time for use. They
will e1t~er replace the bl~~ that has been used in the hospital or arrange
to provide blood when 1t 1s needed. Your committee has an assent in
writing that they will so cooperate.
If the patient has been discharged from the hospital and has paid for
the blood used, his money will be refunded by the hospital upon notification that replacement from the Blood Bank has been made for the blood
used.
Blood that has to be purchased from commercial sources because
the Lodge member does not have a blood bank account costs today
from $25.00 to $75.00 per pint. The cost for some blood derivatives
c~n _be as much as $1 ~5.00 per unit. The great value of a Grand Jurisd1ct1onal ~lood Bank 1s clearly demonstrated. It is a vital necessity and
most advisable when the cost of blood is considered today.
Although there is no charge under our plan for the blood itself
there is a small charge by the American National Red Cross and th~
American Association of Blood Banks in California and Hawaii. for
the collection, processing and distribution of each pint which a patient
uses. Generally this charge is covered by the patient's insurance so the
cost of blood used is very small when compared with its purchase from
a commercial source when there is no Blood Bank to draw upon in
time of need.
It should be kept in mind that under our plan, it is possible to donate
blood locally and have the blood credit transferred for use to any of
the fifty states. Our Blood Banks have a reciprocity system with other

community blood banks as well as with blood programs whereby credits
may be transferred to patients in any part of the United States. thus.
whenever a member or his immediate family may travel. their blood
protection goes right along with them wherever they may be.
This protection is given twenty-four hours of the day for 365 days
of the year. E ach member receives dual credit for a donation of blood
to the Lodge's Blood Bank. One credit in the Lodge's Blood Bank and
a credit in a personal account, this latter account being under the complete control of the donor.
We recommend further that within our program provisions for the
securing of blood donations from entire families be it the Lodge membe r,
his wife. his widow. or children, or even friends be encouraged so that
additional credits to the Blood Bank account can be obtained .
Security and peace of mind comes fro m knowing that blood or its
derivatives will be immediately available when needed. The success or
failure of our Grand Jurisd ictional Blood Bank will be in direct proportion to the understanding of our members as to the tremendous beneflts
of our suggested program. A patient cannot wait for vital blood when
it is required. It can be a case of life or death.
Never forget someone's life depends on you. When you give blood.
you give life. The blood you give today may save some one very dear
to you many years from now. Science fiction not at all. Until recently,
bloods red cells could be kept only twenty-one days under ordinary
refrigeration. With the revoluntionary new science of extreme cold.
the red blood cells may retain their life-saving properties indefinitely.
This new breakthrough will make possible the storage of vast supplies
of blood so that even the rarest and most despera tely needed may never
again be in short supply when required to save a life.
Blood is today's most amazing medicine, a miracle worker-newer
in some respects than penicillin. It saves more lives than our wonder
drugs. If you would visit a hospital on any single day, you would see
that blood and the medicines made from it are fulfllling many needs.
In an accident ward, a quick injection of human serum albumin made
from blood would be used to save a person dying of shock. A newborn
baby may be given a complete new blood supply to halt a possible battle
with incompatible anti-bodies. In the children's ward, youngsters get
injections of gamma globulin, a blood fraction which saves them from
a serious bout with measles. These are only a few of the daily
uses of blood in any la rge hospital which one of your loved ones may
need. There is no substitute for blood! There is no substitute for you!
This special committee after much study a nd investigation, has
concluded and does unanimously recommend as follows:
1. That a Grand Jurisdictional Masonic Blood Bank for the States
of California and Hawaii be set up at once.

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

2. That the Grand Jurisdictional Masonic Blood Bank be strictly
a Blue Lodge function and not that of any Board of Relief.
The undersigned are grateful to the Most Worshipful Robert A.
Crigler, Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii, for the
opportunity of service afforded them in this special assignment.
We move the adoption of this report and the recommendations therein·contained.
Respectfully submitted,
DE WALD BAUM, Chairman
ERNEST M. NEWTON

JAMES E. WELLET

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The report of the special committee to study the matter of blood
banks has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes. The report is at some length. It is information as to the use
of blood in various types of therapy. The entire report leads to its
conclusion that a jurisdiction-wide blood bank be established by the
Grand Lodge.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes is persuaded that
the better policy will be to establish a single jurisdiction-wide or two
state-wide blood banks than to have scattered local banks. Because we
recommend the adoption of the broad suggestion of the special committee does not mean that we also recommend all the mechanics suggested in the report, for example, the limitation on the persons who
would be eligible to draw or the assignment of important decisions to
members other than the Masters of Lodges. The proposed program is
not crystalized yet to the point where directions as to details should be
attempted by this communication. To get the matter before the house.
I move:
That it shall be the policy of the Grand Lodge to move forward
toward the establishment of a jurisdiction-wide blood bank or two statewide blood banks and that the incoming Grand Master appoint a special
committee for study and such action as he may authorize.
Adopted,

251

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE FOR
STUDY OF 50-YEAR VETERAN PINS
1968 GRAND MASTER'S RECOMMENDATION No. 8

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In accordance with Recommendation No. 8 of the Grand Master's
message to the 1968 Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, this
Committee was appointed by Most Worshipful Robert A . Crigler "to
study the entire problem of the material and the design of the 50-Y ear
Button . and present recommendations to Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communication."
The Committee reached the conclusion that the design of the pin
should be modernized and made more attractive. and has created and
recommends the design shown in the accompanying print. The small
print is the actual size-the large print is to illustrate details. The· gold
content is approximately the same as that of the pins presently in use.
It is recommended that the new design be adopted, to be made of
l 4K yellow gold from the hills of California with blue hard enamel,
using the new type thin push-on back.
Your Committee has located a reputable source which has made a
commitment. first, that gold is available, and, second, that it can supply
these pins currently to Grand Lodge at a price of approximately twothirds of the price being paid for the present pins. We recommend that
such source be utilized unless some other manufacturer on competitive
bids quotes lower for equal quality. The name and address of the committed source will be made available to the Grand Master and the
Grand Secretary.
We further recommend that a parchment similar in size and style
to the accompanying design, and suitable for framing, be obtained and
presented with each button, the cost of the parchment to be determined
on the basis of competitive bids.
We further recommend that a card suitable for carrying in the
wallet. and of similar design to the above parchment, be obtained and
presented with each button , the cost of the card to be determined on
the bas is of competitive bids .
It is recommended that implementation of the foregoing program
be undertaken forthwith upon adoption of this report by Grand Lodge,
but that the present supply of 50-Year Buttons be exhausted before
presentation of the new buttons and accompanying items be commenced.
The program recommended by this Committee is inspired and encouraged by the belief that all recognition possible should be shown our
50-year members, not only for their service to the Fraternity, but also
because these men who are in their retiring time of life feel deeply about
such tokens of appreciation.

252

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

T~e Committee also wishes to recognize the efforts of our fellow

AITERNOON SESSION-Thursday, October 16, 1969

comm1tt~eman, Worshipful Brother George \.Varner, who met a sudden

253

and tragic death early this year.
Respectfully submitted .
MERLE A. LoGUE
HUGH J. CAMERON, Chairman
Referred to C ommittees on Policy and General Purposes. and on
Finance for budget allocation.

At I :00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. This session was raised by Worshipful George R. Stewart, Master of Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415. The invocation was delivered by
Worshipful William H. Price, Assistant Grand Lecturer.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes :
Th~ report of the Special Committee on Study of Fifty-Year Veteran Pms has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
"!'( e believe ~ha.t the policy of awarding a certificate and a card in
~dd1t1on to. the pm IS proper. No question of policy is involved in changmg the design.
I move that it be the policy.
Adopted.

The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions which
were referred by the Grand Master to the committees noted. Committee reports and action taken are printed below each.

At 12 :15 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until I :00 P .M.

RESOLUTIONS

PROCEDURE-COMMON DISASTER
(1)
To the M ost Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is customary and sometimes incumbent on the Grand
Master. Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand Wardens to
travel all together or several together in the performance of their duties,
and
WHEREAS, common disasters are possible and have occurred in
certain organizations, football teams and businesses. and
WHEREAS. the California Masonic Code is silent on procedure
to be adopted in the event of such a common disaster.
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that a new section 32.l be
added to the California Masonic C ode as follows :
32.1. COMMON DISASTER. Should the offices of Grand
Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand Wardens become vacant by common disaster or otherwise. it shall be
the duty of the Grand Secretary or Assistant Grand Secretary
to convene a Special Communication within sixty ( 60) days of
said disaster wherein persons shall be elected and installed in the
manner provided for at an Annual Communication. Pending said
election and installation the immediate living Past Grand Master
shall discharge the duties of the Grand Master.
Respectfully submitted.
HARLAN P . HUEBNER. P.M.• No. 445
JOHN B. WATTS, M .• No. 637
RICHARD L. RIEMER, P.M ., No. 778
ANDREW J. NocAs, P.M .. No. 641
348
ALLEN B. GRESHAM, P.M.. No.
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committe.e on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Jurisprudence will submit the language which
should be utilized to effect the purpose of Resolution No. 1.

254

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The S:ommittee on Policy and General Purposes recommends t'hat
you vote yes."

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence presents the following resol f 1
to carry out the intended purpose o.f the proposers of Resolution Nuo. ~~
RE?OLVED : that a new section 32.l be added to the Califo .
rn1a
Masonic Code as follows:
32.1. COMMON DISASTER. Should the offices of Grand
Master, Deputy Grand Master. Senior and Junior Grand War~en~ al~ become vacant by common disaster or otherwise, it shall
e t e uty of the ~rand Secretary or Assistant Grand Secretary
to. con.vene a Speaal Communication within sixty ( 60) days of
said disaster wherein persons shall be elected and installed in th
ma n~er provi.d ed for . at an Annual Communication. Pending saiJ
elect10~ and tnstallati~n the immediate living Past Grand Master
shall discharge the duties of the Grand Master.
For the purpose of putting the resolution before Grand Lodge
we
move the adoption of the resolution.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

MANNER OF VOTING
(2)
·
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . ur A . M . of Ca l1f orma:
RESOLVED. that Section 39 C.M.C. be amended to increase from
~hrGee todfiLofteden the number of members needed to require a vote by ballot
ge.
m ran
0

Respectfully submitted,
EVERETT HousER, P.M., No. 504

Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and
'
General Purposes.

The Co~mittee on Policy and General Purposes:
. Section 39 of the California Masonic Code provides: "All questions
1
of officers, shall be decided either
1: the GrandbLodge, exceptt election
b
I
viva voce or y a r· ·
f h ismg vo e, un ess, efore the announcement of the
It th
~:~rot, .. ~r.~o . t ree members shall demand that the vote be taken by
in t~esolution No. 2 would require an increase from three to fifteen

e numbberdofhmembers required to request a written ballot. It must
be rem em ere t at there are two . t
h
.
ms ances m w ich such a request
would occur. Th fl
e . rst would be before a vote was taken and Brethren
.
f
a~ormg o\opfosm.g a. proposition desired a written ballot because a
vo~~eh vot~, 1 c ose, hdtfficult to judge and it is impossible to determine
w ic voices are o t ose having three votes, two votes, one vote or

J5

255

nly a fraction of a vote. In such a case it is just as easy to find fifteen

~o join in requesting a vote by ballot as it is to find three and this pro-

ed amendment would not accomplish any practical result.
pos It is the other instance or time when a vote by ballot mii:Jht be requested that causes your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
to recommend that you vote "no" on this proposed amendment. That
is the instance when a vote is taken by voice, but the ayes and nays
are so nearly equal that neither proponents nor opponents believe that
the result can be accurately determined . In such an in stance three
Brethren could arise and request a ballot. No reason occurs to this
committee why it should be required that fifteen Brethren arise and
announce a request for a written vote while the presiding officer makes
a tally to ascertain whether there are fifteen or only thirteen, twelve
or eleven.
The members of this Committee have observed the present requirement of only three requests in operation for many years. It seldom has
been requested after a voice vote and in no instance which could be
termed an abuse. Your Committee deems that it is more important to
achieve an accurate determination of a close vote than to merely make
it more difficult to obtain a written ballot.
The Committee on Jurisprudence will present the legislation which
would be necessary to achieve the change the proponent desires you to
make. After the legislation has been presented for that purpose. your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that you vote
" no" as to its adoption.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution proposes to increase from three to fifteen the number of members needed to require a vote by ballot in Grand Lodge.
An appropriate resolution would be as follows:
RESOLVED. that Section 39 of the California r,1asonic Code be
amended by deleting the word "three" and inserting in lieu thereof the
word "fifteen."
A majority voted against the resolution.

LODGES-A DDITIONA L VOTES BASED
ON NUMBER OF MEMBERS
(3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS, Masons of California live in a state and nation where
vital issues are decided by a majority vote, and
WHEREAS, from the early beginnings of our great country the
principle of "taxation without representation" was abhorrent to our
forefathers and became a principal cause in the American Revolution.
and

256

PROCEED INGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

WHERE AS. dues are paid by each Lodge to Grand Lodge on a
pe.r capita basis, and
WHERE AS, at the present time represen tation of each Lodge in
Grand Lodge is limited to a maximum of four delegates, regardles s of
the size of the Lodge. and
WHERE AS, under the present Five/ sixth Rule. it is possible for
Lodges with a total membership of under 1200 members to prevent
legislation desired by over two hundred thousand Masons,
NOW. THERE FORE. BE IT RESOL VED: That section 43 of
A·r ticle VI of the Californ ia M asonic Constitu tion be amended by adding
the following:
That in addition to the votes set forth above, each Lodge shall have
the right to cast one additiona l vote for each I 00 members or fraction
thereof. as set forth in the per capita dues list for the precedin g year.
Respectf ully submitte d,
JACOB M. KARTZIN EL. M .. No. 520
LEWIS MILLER, M..
ROBERT B. OWEN . s.
&
No. 509
P.M .• No. 509
LLOYD A. }ACAWAY , P.M ..
CLARENC E E . REDMAN , P.M ..
No. 509
No. 636
ERIC ALEXAN DER,/. W.,
ISADORE MOORE, P .M ..
No. 636
No. 520
SAMUEL RosEN, P .M. ,
EMANUE L M. SPIEG ELMAN,
No. 520
S.W .. No. 520
Referred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence, and on Policy and General Purposes .
The above resolutio n was withdraw n by its proponen ts.

w.

VOTE REQUI RED
(4)
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of C alifornia:
WHERE AS, Sections 77 and 78 of the Californ ia Masonic Code
require a 5/ 6 vote to amend provisions of the Code except that if a vote
in favor of an amendm ent is less than 5/ 6 but is a majority it is carried
over to the next communication and can then be passed by a 2/ 3 vote,
and
WHERE AS, the above provisions are undemoc ratic a nd have prevented the making of any meaning ful changes in the Code, and
WHERE AS, the ultra-con serva tism engende red by a virtually unchangeab le Code bas been a factor in the pres ent decline of Masonic
activity and in the conseque nt decline of applicati ons for degrees,
BE IT RESOL VED. that Section 77 C.M.C. shall be amended to
read, "Upon the report of said committee, if two-third s of the vote shall

257

be in favor of such proposed amendm ent it shall be declared adopted:
and from and after the close of that Commun ication it shall become a
part of the Constitu tion," and
BE IT RESOL VED. that Section 78 C.M.C. shall be amended to
read. "If the vote in favor of such proposed amendm ent be less than
that named in the precedin g section, but there be a majority therefor.
it shall lie over for one year, and shall be publishe d with the ~ro~ee~:
ings, under the caption of "Propose d Amendme~t t~ the. Const1tut10~ :
and if, at the next succeedi ng Annual Commun ication. 1t shall receive
a majority of the votes given thereon, it shall be declared adopted: and,
from and after the close of that Commun ication . it shall become a part
of the Constitu tion.
Respectf ully s ubmitted .
R. S. GoLDPLA M, P.M.• No. 792
EDGAR R. S ORENSON , M ..
MARSHA L L E . ULSHOEP PER,
No. 792
S. W .• No. 792
Referred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence, and on Policy and General Purposes .
The above resolutio n was withdraw n by its proponen ts.

VOTE REQUI RED
(5)
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHERE AS, Masons of Californ ia live in a state and nation where
vital issues are decided by a majority vote, and
WHERE AS, from the early beginnin gs of our great country the principle of "taxation without represen ta tion" was abhorren t to our forefathers and became a principal cause in the American Revolution, and
WHERE AS. dues are paid by each Lodge to Grand Lodge on a
per capita ba sis,
NOW. THERE FORE. BE IT RESOL VED : That Section 77
and Section 78 of Article XI of the C alifornia Masonic Constitu tion
be amended to read as follows :
77. VOTE REQUIR ED. Upon the report of said committee,
if two-third s of the votes shall be in favor of such proposed amendment it shall be declared adopted; and, from and after the close of
that Commun ication. it shall become a part of the Constitu tion.
78. WHEN MAJOR ITY VOTE MAY CARRY . If the vote
in favor of such proposed amendm ent be less than that named in
the preceding section. but there be a majority therefor, it shall lie
over for one yea r, and shall be publishe d with the proceedi ngs.
under the ca ption of " Proposed Amendm ent to the Constitu tion";
and if. at the next succeedi ng Annual Commun ication, it shall receive a majority of the votes given thereon, it shall be declared

258

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

adopted; and, from and after the close of that Communication,
it shall become a part of the Constitution.
Respectfully submitted,
CLARENCE E . REDMAN, P .M ..
JACOB M. KARTZINEL, M .,
No. 636
No. 520
LEWIS MILLER, M. & P .M ..
ERIC ALEXANDER,}. W.,
No. 509
No. 636
LLOYD A . JACAWAY, P.M .•
ISADORE MOORE, P.M.,
No. 509
No. 520
SAMUEL RosEN , P.M.,
ROBERT B. OWEN, S. W., &
No. 520
P .M ., No. 509
EMANUEL SPIEGELMA N, S.W.,
A.G. SCULL, M. & P .M..
No. 520
No. 528
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

of a religious holiday and First : that such change is adopted by a majority vote of the Lodge at the Stated Meeting at either the second month
or the third month next preceding the month in which the date is to
be changed:
Second: that due notice of such change is given to the members of
the Lodge and to the Grand Lodge, in writing, mailed or delivered ,
not less than three weeks before the date s tated in Section 1 of this
article, or of the changed date so adopted, whichever occurs first:
Third : that all other sections of the California Masonic Code that
may be· construed to refer to Stated Meetings be adjusted accordingly
with no cloud or doubt to all members of our Ancie nt and H onorable
Fraternity.
Respectfully submitted ,
EDWARD C. LOHMEYER, P.M., No. 1
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and Gene.r al Purposes.

CHANGE TIME OF STA TED MEETING
(6)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. the Great Light in Masonry is the Holy Bible and
within its pages are noted that the Passover Season has occurred each
ye~r, at which time all peoples were to pay homage to their Supreme
Bemg. Those that were Christians observed and still observe the rites
of the Last Supper or Communion on Holy or Maundy Thursday. Our
Jewish and other creeds also observe Maundy Thursday Rites , and
WHEREAS. it has occurred that the Grand Master has seen fit
to grant a dispensation to move the Stated Meeting of a Lodge from
one date in a month to another and then turned and denied another
Lodge who asked for the same right. The Grand Master claimed that
o.ne Lodge was predominantly Jewish and another predominantly Christian, but equal consideration should have been given to both faiths in
the observance of the Passover season, and the Maundy Thursday
Rites, and
~HEREAS, Masonry is religious but not a religion, advocating no
particular creed. but an allegiance to a Supreme Being, and
WHEREAS, many members of Lodges are Officers or active workers in their own place of worship and have a real obligation to be present at services;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that the following section
be added and made a part of Section 313 of the By Laws, relative to
the date of a Stated Meeting, giving a Lodge the right to change the
date; PROVIDED : that the change is desired by the Lodge, because

259

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 6 would give a Lodge the right to change the date
of its Stated Meeting should it conflict with a religious holiday. provided: that such change of date is adopted by a majority vote of the
Lodge two or three months before the date of the meeting to be changed,
and that notice of such change be given in writing to the members of
the Lodge and Grand Lodge at lea st three weeks in advance.
Our ritual clearly states that our obligation to Masonry will not
interfere with the.duty we owe to God, our families, or ourselves. Should
the majority of members of a Lodge wish to observe a certain religious
holiday. then they should be allowed to change the date of their Stated
Meeting if it interferes with that observance.
I move the adoption of this resolution and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommends a "yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence presents the following resolution
to carry out the intended purpose of the proposers of Resolution No. 6.
RESOLVED : That there be added to Section 1 of the Uniform
Code of By-Laws in Section 313 of the California Masonic Code the
following:
"and except that if, due to a religious observance, this Lodge shall,
by a majority vote of the Lodge at a Stated Meeting held either in
the second or third month immediately preceding the mon th in ,
which such religious observance occurs, change the date of the
Stated Meeting in the month in which such religious observance
occurs to a different date in said month in the manner provided for
in Section 365 of the California Masonic Code, except that said

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

change of meeting date need. not be a pproved by the Grand Lodge
or the Grand Master but notice thereof shall be given to the Grand
Master and the members of the Lodge not less than three week
before the meeting date fixed in the By-Laws. This change of da t:
shall not be an amendment to these By- laws.
Annotation 343e shall not apply to the procedure provided for in
the foregoing resolution.
For the pu~pose of putting the resolution before Grand Lodge we
move the adoption of the resolution.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

(7)

A ~eso.luti~n designated as No. 7 was withdrawn by its proponent
after d1str1button to the constituent Lodges but prior to the opening of
Grand Lodge.

PERMIT MORE THAN ONE OFFICERS' COACH
(8)
To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS .. many Lodges in the jurisdiction are in need of more
th~n one Officers Coach due to various business and professional commitments of a single Officers' Coach; and
WHE~EAS. more than one Officers' Coach would guarantee that
an Officers Coach be available at all times for the benefit of the Lodge·

·

md

WHE_R EAS, the allowance of more than one Officers' Coach
woul~ activate more Brethren who might otherwise be inactive in Lodge
funct10ns; and
. ~HEREAS, each of the Officers' Coaches would be under the
direction of the Inspector;
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 161 -"ith be
" h" d"
amended to read as follows : " To appoint in each Lodge wi'th ID
IS IS. c
Offi
I
t . t
M t
Past
qualified
a
be
cers oach, who shall
nc at east one
of a Lodge of this jurisdict_ion, and who shall serve at the pleasu:: ~~
the Inspector. The Officers Coach shall assist in teaching the ritual to
the officers o~. the Lodge, and assist in preparing them to qualify for
advancement.
Respectfully submitted,
GROVER W. TAYLOR p M
WILFRED O'NEILL, M.,
' · .,
No. 41
No. 41
}AMES F. DEHNERT,
No. 41
RICHARD
No. 41

s.W .,

J. RUSHTON,/. W.,

DELBERT A. NELSO N, P.M ..
No. 41
GAIL B. CONE, P.M.,
No. 41

ERNEST

c. WEBB, P.M.,

No.41

261

JosEPH RoBRECHT, P.M ..

No. 41

L. c. PARR, M .,
No. 756
No. 725
JOHN M. FAULKNER , M ..
CHARLES LAIRD, P.M ..
No. 448
No.41
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Ritual.
The Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual. to which Resolution No. 8 was referred
proposing to amend Section l 61-4th of the California Masonic Code
allowing the appointment by the Inspector of more than one Officers'
Coach, has ca refully considered this proposal.
It is the unanimous opinion of th is Committee that the responsibility of the Officers' Coach to the Inspector should be vested in one
man, thereby avoiding the probability of division of authority and the
differences of opinion among several Officers' Coaches, and thus enabling the Inspector to insure the teaching of our lectures and ritual in
the uniform manner that is so necessary and desirable throughout our
jurisdiction.
This same resolution was presented at our last Annual Communication but was withdrawn when the proponents of the resolution were
advised that Section 161-4th of the California Masonic Code does not
prohibit, nor does the Ritual Committee oppose the use of one or more
assistants who ar~ directly responsible to the Officers' Coach appointed
by the Inspector. Therefore, this Committee believes that the purposes
desired by Resolution No. 8 can be accomplished without enacting legislation .
We, therefore, are opposed to the resolution and strongly urge a
" no" vote.
The Committe.e on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution would permit the appointment of more than one
Officers' Coach in a Lodge. Your Committee recognizes the advantages
of providing more labor for more Brethren and of making available
substitutes for the first team.
However, your Committee fears that providing for more than one
Officers' Coach may cause disagreement on matters of ritual and confusion in the Temple. Furthermore, there is at present a provision in our
law for an Inspector to provide needed assistance in a Lodge.
The Committee on Policy and G eneral Purposes moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on furisprudence indicates that the language of the
resolution will accomplish the intent of the author.
A majority voted against the resolution.
RALPH 0 . SEATON, M ..

262

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CHANGE NAME OF MASONIC EDUCATION
COMMITTEE AND MAKE IT A
STANDING COMMITTEE
(9)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Masonic education should be for all Masons, and .not
for a select few scholars, and
WHEREAS. the existing Committee, possibly by virtue of its name
has had little relationship to Masonry as a whole, and
'
. WHEREAS, the function of disseminating Masonic information
differs from that of education, and
WHEREAS, informing a Brother has a different connotation and
acceptability than educating him, and
~HEREAS, it is not possible to set up a continuing function of
service to the Grand Lodge without assurance of a planned, well-developed and continuing program, and
. WHEREAS, a permanent program of recording and dissemination of Masonic information with understanding of Masonic responsibility would make better Masons and stronger Officers in our constituent Lodges, with a consequent strengthening of the whole fabric of
California Masonry,
NOW. THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED THAT:
The Masonic Education Committee be henceforth known as the
Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Information and Responsibility,
and that
. . ~he Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Information and Respons1b1hty be constituted as a Standing Committee of the Grand Lodge
of California, to consist of not less than twenty, nor more than thirty
members, including the Master or a Warden of each Research Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
GILBERT A. BENOIT, P.M., No. 260
ROBERT D. LINTNER, P.M.,
Vrn1 BENNEHOPP p M No J
N 0 169
·
' . .,
.
·
W. F. POYNTER, P.M., No. 545
Lours I. Go101<1No, P.M .•
No. 120
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Finance.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
In considering Resolution No. 9, your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes is in accord with the purposes enumerated as to the
functions of the committee heretofore known as the Masonic Education
Committee, the proposed change in name to Committee on Masonic

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

263

Information and Responsibility and the proposed change in status from
that of a Special Committee to that of a Standing Committee.
The resolution also provides for the Committee to consist of not
less than twenty, nor more than thirty, members. It is the opinion of
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes that the provision of
a minimum of twenty members at the outset for a program yet to be
developed may not be necessary and we recommend that the membership of the Committee be established at a minimum of ten and a maximum of thirty members. This reduction in the minimum number of members on the Committee will not restrict any contemplated expansion
in the program or activities of the Committee but will be desirahle in
not requiring the appointment of more members than may be required.
The resolution further provides for the inclusion of the Master or
a Warden of each Research Lodge as members of the Committee. Inasmuch as officers of Research Lodges as such are not members of Grand
Lodge (see Section 385 C.M.C.), they cannot be appointed members
of Grand Lodge committees (see Section 192).
I move the adoption of a substitute resolution to read as follows:
RESOLVED. that the Masonic Education Committee be henceforth known as the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic Information
and Responsibility, and that it be constituted as a Standing Committee
to consist of not less than ten nor more than thirty members.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a
"yes" vote on the substitute resolution.
The Committee on Finance indicated its concurrence in the recommendation of the. Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 9 proposes to change the name of the Special Committee on Masonic Education to "Masonic Information and Responsibility," and to make it a Standing Committee.
We note that the name of the Committee on Masonic Education was
changed in 1940 to the Committee on Masonic Information, and it was
so designated until it became the Committee on Masonic Research in
1955, and then the Committee on Masonic Education again in 1960.
The changes of name have not seemed to affect the results, or lack of
results, from the committee's endeavors.
To some degree the proposed name may conflict or be confused with
that of the Committee on Public Information. We do not think that
the proposed new name reflects what we assume to be the duties of
the committee.
To effect the intention of the proposal. however. we offer the follow~
ing resolution:
RESOLVED, that Section 192 of the C.M.C. be amended by
inserting after the first sentence a semicolon and the following
language: "and on Masonic Information and Responsibility, con-

264

PROCE EDING S OP THE

sis ting of not less than I 0 nor more than 30 memb ers."
and by deleting the word "and" befor e the words "on Necro logy."
We offer the resolu tion witho ut recom mend ation.
Subst itute resolu tion adopt ed 5/ 6 vote.

GRAND LODGE OP CA LIFOR NIA

The Gran d Secre tary sha 11 a1ways b e t he secre ta ry of the Board of
~~-

BE IT FUR THE R RESO LVED : That C.M. C. Sectio

22

TRU STE ES-M ASO NIC HOM ES-C ALIF ORN IA
MAS ONIC MEM ORIA L TEM PLE CHA NGE IN MAK E-UP
(10)
To the Most Wors hipfu l Gran d Lodge F. & A. M. of
California:

At the 1968 Annu al Comm unica tion Grand M aster
Hopp made
recom mend ations to reliev e the Junio r Grand Ward
en. Senio r Gran d
Ward en and Depu ty Gran d Maste r of certai n respon
sibilit ies becau se
of the treme ndous ly increa sed burde n to be share
d by each of these
electi ve Gran d Lodge officers.
The Comm ittee on Policy and Gener al Purpo ses
thereu pon recom mend ed that the incom ing Gran d Maste r appoi nt
a specia l comm ittee
to study this matte r and to make recom mend ations
relativ e to the subject at the 1969 Annu al Comm unica tion.
This comm ittee, consis ting of the Senio r Gran d
Ward en, Junio r
Gran d Ward en and Depu ty Grand Maste r, has
made such a study
and as a result submi t the follow ing resolu tion:
RESO LVED : That the Trust ees of the Maso nic
Home s of California be increa sed from nine to eleven in numb er.
The Senio r Gran d
Ward en and Junio r Gran d W arden shall be Trust
ees ex-officio and
the other nine Trust ees s hall be appoi nted by succe
ssive Grand Masters. At all times four of the nine appoi ntive Trust ees
shall be reside nts
in the vicini ty of the Home at Union City and four
shall be reside nts
in tr.e vicini ty of the Home at Covin a .
The terms of the appoi ntive Trust ees shall be three
years from the
close of the Annu al Comm unica tion of the Gran d
Lodge . If a Trust ee
shall serve three full conse cutive terms he shall be
inelig ible for reappointm ent until the lapse of one year. To establ
ish prope r seque nce
terms of the three new appoi ntees starti ng in Octob
er, 1969, shall be
one for one year, one for two years and one for three
years .
BE IT FUR THE R RESO LVED : That the Trust
ees of the California Maso nic Memo rial Temp le, a corpo ration , shall
be reduc ed from
nine to seven in numb er. The Depu ty Grand Maste
r shall be Trust ee
ex-officio. The other six Trust ees shall be appoi
nted by the Gran d
Mast er for terms of three years each. provi ded, howev
er, that the terms
of one-th ird of said appoi ntive Trust ees shall expire
at the close of the
Annu al Comm unica tion of Gran d Lodg e each year.
Wher e a vacan cy
occur s the appoi ntee shall serve for the remainder of
the unexp ired term.
The Gran d Maste r may remov e an appoi ntive Trust
ee at any time.

265

6, or other applic able sectio ns be amen ded as requir ed

intent of this resolu tion.

1

n Nos. 22 .
to effect the

Respe ctfull y submi tted,
CHES TER R. MACP HEE, P.M., No. 455

Refer red to Comm ittees on Jurisp ruden ce, on Policy
and Gene ral
Purpo ses, and to the. Board s ~f Trust ees of the Maso
nic Home s and
the Califo rnia M asornc Memo rial Temp le.

The Comm ittee on Policy and G eneral Purposes:
This resolu tion, arisin g out of Recommendati~n
No. 1 by Gra~d
Maste r Hopp at the 1968 Comm unica tion, provid
e~ for chang es m
memb ership on two of our consti tutional board s,
viz.. the Board ~f
Trust ees o f the Maso nic Home s and the Board
of Trust ees of t e
Califo rnia Maso nic Memo rial Temp le.
A comm ittee consis ting of the Depu ty Gran d M
aster. the Senio r
Grand Ward en and the Junio r Gran d Ward en
made t~e study re·
quired by the recom mend ation and your Comm ittee
on Policy and Ge~·
eral Purpo ses is in accor d with the propose~ change~
in the memb ership
of the two board s, as outlin ed in the resolu tion subm
itted by the Depu ty
Gran d Maste r, Chest er R. MacP hee.
If this resolu tion is adopt ed, two impor tant chang es
will be made
in the make -up of the two Board s referr ed to herein .
First the numb er of memb ers on the Board of
Trust ees of the
Maso nic' Home s will be increa sed from nine to
eleven . The Dep~ty
Gran d Maste r will be freed from duties on this Bo.ard
but the Semo r
Grand Ward en and the Junio r Gran d Ward en will
be Trus~ees exofficio , thus obtain ing two years of neede d an~ .v.alua
ble exper ience on
this most impor tant segme nt of our Maso nic achv1ttes.
Secon dly. the numb er of memb ers on the Board of
Trust ees ?f the
Califo rnia Maso nic Memo rial Temp ie will be decre
ased from nme .to
seven . The Depu ty Grand Maste r will serve as
a Trust ee . ex, offlc10,
as at presen t, but the Senio r Grand Ward en and
the Junto r Gran d
Ward en will be reliev ed for duties elsew here.
With two minor chang es, the substi tution of the
word ."near " for
"vicin ity" in lines 6 and 7 of the first parag raph of the
resolu tion, I move
its adopt ion and the Comm ittee on Policy and Gener
al Purpo ses recomme nds a "yes" vote.
The Board of Trust ees of the Maso nic Home s and
the f!o~rd of
Trust ees of the California Maso nic Memorial Temp
le have indica ted
their concu rrence in the recom mend ation.

266

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence presents the following Resolution
to carry out the intended purpose of the proposers of Resolution No. 10.
RESOLVED: That the first paragraph of Section 221 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"Sec. 221. Appointment and powers. The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California shall be eleven in number. The Senior
Grand Warden and Junior Grand Warden shall be Trustees exofficio; the other nine Trustees shall be appointed by successive
Grand Masters. The term of appointive Trustees shall be three
years from the dose of the Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge. At all times four of the nine appointive Trustees shall be
residents in the vicinity of the Home at Union City and four shall
be residents in the vicinity of the Home at Covina. If a Trustee
shall serve three full consecutive terms, he shall be ineligible for
reappointment until the lapse of one year. To establish proper sequence, the terms of the three new appointees commencing on
October 17, 1969, shall be one for one year. one for two years,
and one for three years."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED : That Section 226 be amended
to read as follows:
"Sec. 226. Appointment and Powers. The Trustees of the California Masonic Temple, a Corporation. shall be seven in number.
The Deputy Grand Master shall be a Trustee ex-officio. The other
six Trustees shall be appointed by the Grand Master for terms of
three years each, provided, however, that the terms of one-third
of said appointive Trustees shall expire at the close of the Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge each year. Where a vacancy occurs, the appointee shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired
term. The Grand Master may remove an appointive Trustee at
any time. The Grand Secretary shall always be the secretary of
the Board of Trustees."
For the purpose of putting the resolution before Grand Lodge we
move the adoption of the resolution.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

REPEAL LEGISLATION -CLUBHOUSES BERKELEY&. U.C.L.A.
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. at the Annual Communication of 1967, Grand Lodge
adopted Resolution No. 8 of then Grand Master Laurence E. Dayton
regarding the sale of the Berkeley and U.C.L.A. Clubhouses; and
WHEREAS, at the Annual Communication of 1968, Grand Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

267

ed Resolution No. 33, establishing the California Masonic Foun-

~~on to administer funds derived from the sale of said Clubhouses: and

WHEREAS. the Berkeley Clubhouse has been sold, and funds and
obligations of the purchaser have been transferred to the California
Masonic Foundation: and
WHEREAS, all of the assets of the U .C.L.A. Clubhouse have been
transferred to the California Masonic Foundation; and
WHEREAS, Sections 231. 232, 233, 234, 236 . 237, 238 and 239
f the California Masonic Code relate to Directors, Title to Property,
Organization of the Boards and Annual Reports relating to said Clubhouses and should be repealed;
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED: That Sections 231. 232, 233.
234, 236, 237, 238 and 239 of the California Masonic Code be repealed.
Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, P.M., No. 445
RICHARD L. RIEMER, P.M..
JoHN B. WATTS, M .. No. 637
No. 778
ANDREW J. NocAs. P.M.,
ALLEN B. GRESHAM , P.M.,
No. 641
No. 348
Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution proposes the repeal of Sections 231, 232, 233 and
234 pertaining to the appointment of directors. their service as the
Board of D irectors pf the Masonic Club at the University of California,
Berkeley, California, the way in which title to Club assets should be
held, the organization of the board and annual reports.
It also proposes the repeal of Sections 236, 237, 238 and 239 which
make similar provisions for the Masonic Club at U.C.L.A.
Because the two clubhouses have either been sold or assets transferred pursuant to Grand Lodge action, neither the Masonic Club at
Berkeley nor the Masonic Club at U .C.L.A. exists any longer, at least
in form to require these Code Sections. Therefore, it is appropriate to
eliminate from the Code sections pertaining to them.
In addition, Section 153 provides that the Grand Secretary shall
secure and maintain in force a blanket fidelity bond for certain named
officers, including officers of Masonic Clubhouses. This provision for
bond for Masonic Clubhouse officers may also be eliminated.
The following resolution would be appropriate:
RESOLVED. that Sections 231, 232, 233, 234 , 236, 237, 238 and
239 are hereby repealed and, further, that Section 153 is amended to
delete the words, "Masonic Clubhouses," therefrom.
The Committee moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a "yes" vote.
Adopted 5/ 6 vote.

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RES TOR E MA SON IC TEM PLE AT
MA LAK OFF DIG GIN GS STA TE HIS
TOR IC PAR K
(12 )
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lod ge
F. & A. M. of California:

WH ERE AS. the Cali forn ia Stat e Dep
artm ent of Park s and Recreati on in 1966 esta blish ed the Mal akof
f Digg ings Stat e Hist oric Park ,
whic h inclu des the historical and spec tacu
lar Mal akof f Digg ings and the
site of the pion eer mining town of Nor
th Bloomfield: and
WH ERE AS. the Dep artm ent of Park
s and Recr eatio n has auth orized the auth enti c resto ratio n of the histo
ric town of Nor th Bloomfield
as a living dem onst ratio n of a pion eer
gold rush settl eme nt for post erity
to observe, stud y and enjo y; and
WH ERE AS, the Mas onic Frat erni ty
play ed a lead ing role in the
settl eme nt and deve lopm ent of the grea
t Stat e of Cali forn ia; and
WH ERE AS, a Mas onic Tem ple was
amo ng the first buildings
erec ted in all of the Mot her Lod e pion
eer town s, the Lod ge building of
Quit man Lod ge No. 88 bein g erec ted in
1863: and
WH ERE AS. the thou sand s of visitors
to Mal akof f Digg ings
Stat e Hist oric Park s houl d have the
oppo rtun ity to obse rve the import ance of the Mas onic Frat erni ty in
the pion eer settl eme nts of Cali fornia; and
WH ERE AS, the resto ratio n of the
Mas onic Tem ple in Nor th
Bloomfield will prov ide an historic and
inter estin g Lod ge room for all
Lod ges of this juris dicti on to cond uct
visit ation s and degr ee wor k by
rese rvati on, and a Mas onic museum of
inter est to visiting Mas ons of
all jurisdictions; and
WH ERE AS, the Mal akof f Digg ings
Stat e Hist oric Park prov ides
facilities for picnicking, cam ping , swim
ming , and over nigh t cabins,
scenic won ders , a museum and a trou
t strea m, ther eby furn ishin g enterta inm ent for the families of Lod ge
members cond uctin g visitations;
and
WH ERE AS, the Cali forn ia Dep artm
ent of Park s and Recr eatio n
mus t enlist the aid of man y priv ate grou
ps and agen cies in resto ring
the pion eer town of Nor th Bloomfield,
since state fund s are not avai lable to reco nstru ct buil ding s in the $30.
000 to $50.000 price rang e; and
WH ERE AS, noth ing rema ins of the
lodg e building of Quit man
Lod ge No. 88 but trace s of the foundatio
n; and
WH ERE AS, Mr. Will iam Pen n Mot t,
Jr., Dire ctor of the Depart~
ment of Park s and Recr eatio n, and Mr.
Ray B. Hun ter, Dep uty Director, have pled ged full coop erati on and
supp ort for the Gra nd Lod ge
F. & A . M . of Cali forn ia in a prog ram
to rebu ild the Nor th Bloomfield
Mas onic Tem ple, and the proj ect is likew
ise appr oved and supp orte d
by the Citiz ens Adv isor y Com mitt ee for
Mal akof f Digg ings Stat e Historic Park ; and
WH ERE AS, the Dep artm ent of Park
s and Recr eatio n will prov ide

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1t

269

erfo rm the histo rical rese arch and . arch

itect ural wor k in
ple; and
planWn1';.i'~ReJ'At the rebuilding of the old Mas onic
Tem ple at ~orth
·n ~onstitute an imp orta nt milestone in the
histo
Bloomfielddw~
ble frate rnity by disp layin g the lead ing ry o our
role play ed
ancient a~
onMora
b our pioneer asom·c fath ers , whic h may well inspire othe r men to
y
h e brot hers and fellows have gone b e f
ore;
trave l
THE REF ORE . BE IT RES OLV ED
that t~e Grand. Lod ge
NO
f Cali forn ia immediately appo int a spec
ial comm1tt~e .to
F. ~ A~ f~~d driv e thro ugho ut all Lod
ges of the Cali forn ia J~1sd;c­
c~n uc . ~ a oal of raisi ng twen ty cent
s ( 20c) from each. me~ er or
tion, wit
hg
ebuilding t e M asom.c Tem ple at Nor th Bloomfield. Cali forn ia.
r
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
No 23
THOMAS STEEL, P.M .. No. 51
EoWARD F ARLEY. PM
. ..
.
W A JERDON , P .M .. No. 23
J. F. SIEGFRIED, P.M ., N o. 13
. .WORTHLEY P.M .. No . 13
CAMERON A. LARSEN, P.M .,
R· V ·
'
N 13
LCEo TWooo.IP.Mp
.. NMo. 2N3o 13
LLO:
~ E. Wm rn. P .M., No. 13
ARL
. VEY, . .,
.
r,
M
J. HowARD KEENE , P .M .. N o. 13
DEMAR D UNDAS, PM
. .v
.,
No. 13
ROBERT 'E. McMAsTERS, p . M .,
STEVE M . CHtLESKI. P .M ..
No. 13
N 0 . 23
J.B. CHRISTENSEN. P.M ..
EUGENE WALTERS , JR ., ]. W..
No. 581
No. 13
WILLIAM H. LAMBERT, P.M ..
LoREN H. PINGREE, M .. No. 23
No. 13
FRANKE. JoNAS, P.M .. No. 23
Refe rred to Com mitt ees on Poli cy and
d
Gen eral Purp oses , an on
Fina nce.
The Com mitt ee on Poli cy and General Purp
oses :
.
Resolution No 12 prop oses the immedia
te appo intm ent ~£ :. src~al
committee to cond uct a fund drive thro
ugho ut all ~cites o I t
u;;r ;
diction for the .purp ose of rNebui~d~ngt
~e
t~~~
~:~f
iel~~t:Hf~::;a.
occupied by Quit man Lod ge o.
a
or
I
I
The prin cipa l purp ose of the. reb~ildi
~g
t~~/
ai)1
ii~~
i~~s
te~~
t~
is to assu re Mas onic repr esen tatio n
m t e
a~
.
fN h
H 'storic Park A port ion of the park cont
ains the h1stonc town o
~t
Bl1oomfield which is plan ned for auth entic
resto ratio n by the Stat e e~
part men t of Park s and Recr eatio n.
.
You r Com mitt e on Poli cy and Gen eral
Purpose~ full~ recognizes
es the enth usia sm of the supp orte rs of
this proiect, and we
~~ltya~~~~:se the impo rtan ce and desirability of pres
ervin g wheCever
ossible that whic h remi nds us of our
herita~e . How ever , your} om~
~ittee cann ot recommend you r appr oval of
this pres ent prop osa .

perso~ne ho pro osed resto red Mas onic Tem

w.;/
M

;5

ti

270

271

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

First, we believe it is not good policy to authorize the solicitatio
of contributions from Lodge members throughout this Jurisdiction fo~
any purpose other than one of Masonic charity. If a project of the sort
propos:d is _worthy as a Grand Lodge project, then it should be supported m uniform proportion by all of the Lodges within the Jurisdiction.
Secondly, we believe, based on the information thus far available
to u~, that the rights, requirements and obligations of this Grand Lodge
relati~e to the. Malakoff Diggings State H istoric Park have not been
sufficiently ~e!meat:d . Before this Grand Lodge can properly decide
to be a part1c1pant m the park it should have full understanding with
the Department of Parks and Recreation. the agency which will control
the park.
. T~ird~y .. we ~eel that it is important for this Grand Lodge to determ1~e its limits with respect to participation in and support of the restoration and preservation of historical places and points of interest which
bear general Masonic significance.
Accordingly we, as a Committee. want to suggest to the incoming
G~and Mas.ter that he appoint a special committee, with funds approp_n~~ed for its w?r~. t? st~dy the entire matter of Grand Lodge responsibility a~d partlc1pat1on m the area of h istorical site restoration and
preservation and that this Committee be requested to especially examine
the proposal for the restoration of the Masonic Temple of Quitman
Lodge No. 88 a t North Bloomfield, California.
We move the adoption of Resolution No. 12 and recommend a "no"
vote.
The. Committee on Finance indicated its concurrence in the recommendation.
A majority voted against the resolution.

WHEREAS, studies made by the Board of Library Commissioners
and the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
in 1968 establishes the need for additional facilities to accommodate the
proposed Library and Museum,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED, that a special Committee be appointed by the incoming Grand Master to continue such
studies and to recommend to the Grand Lodge appropriate procedures
to provide such a Library and Museum adjacent to or as part of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Grand Lodge authorize
an annual per capita tax of fifty cents ( 50c) per member; the funds to
be used for the specific purpose of developin g said Library and Museum
and such other facilities that may be submitted to the Grand Lodge for
final approval and authority to proceed; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Grand Master, together
with the concurrence of the elective Grand Lodge Officers. be authorized
to borrow such funds from any source whatsoever as may be required
to complete the purchase of available and desirable adjoining properties; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that at the proper time an archi~
tect be employed to develop preliminary plans together with estimated
costs for prior Grand Lodge approval before any actual construction is
undertaken; and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that following completion of the
intent of the policy heretofore adopted such per ca pita tax for such
purpose be discontjnued.
Respectfully submitted,

LIBRARY AND MUSEUM-EXPANDED FACILITY
(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHE~EAS, the documents. letters, books, records. memorabilia.
etc .. attestmg to the history of Freemasonry can a nd should be collected.
recorded. catalogued and made available to Masonic researchers and
students, whithersoever dispersed; and
WJ:IEREAS'. the Grand Lodge of California and the California
Maso~1c .Memorial Temple have already acquired a collection of such
maten.al ~n. such volume that the space presently required for storing
alone mh1b1ts the consideration of the acceptance of additional items· and
WHEREAS, in 1967 Grand Master Laurence E. Dayton re~om­
mended an~ Grand Lodge approved in principle that steps be taken to
~eve~op a Library .and Museum commensurate with our needs and prestige m the Masomc World. (See 1967 Proceedings, pages 27 and 53).
'
and

HENRY D. OLIPHANT, P.M.,

GILBERT A. BENOIT. P.M.,

No. 260
No. 360
BENNEHOFP, P.M., No. 1
VJRL
W . F . POYNTER , P.M .. No. 545
JoHN BELLMAN, JR., P.M..
LOUIS I. GOLDKJND, P.M ..
No. 541
No. 120
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and Gener<1l
Purposes, and on Finance.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution requests that a special committee be appointed to
provide a Library and Museum, that a 50 cents per capita tax be levied
on the Lodges to develop this Library and Museum and that authorization be granted for the purchase of properties adjacent to this California
Masonic Memorial Temple.
Your Committee has been advised that the status of the property
adjacent to this Temple in the California, Taylor, Pine and Jones block
can now be made more generally known. Until now this information
has been restricted to avoid an increase in asking price should Grand

272

273

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge interest in the purchase become known. Briefly. when the sale
of the property at the corner of California and Jones became imminent
and the possibility of a high-rise hotel being built on that corner became
an actuality. the Temple Board Trustees. foreseeing a structure that
could completely obstruct our magnificent, endomosaic, historical window, as well as destroy the view from the Temple, purchased two key
properties between the Temple and Pine Street. These have proved to
be excellent investments. They cost approximately $308,000.00. The
rental income for the year ending June 30, 1969, exceeded $33.000.00
with expenses (less depreciation) amounting to only about $15.000.00.
There are only two properties remaining on the window side behind
the Temple. Your Committee agrees that it is essential that they be purchased. In view of the revenue derived from the property Grand Lodge
now owns, there is every likelihood these two additional parcels will
also be self-supporting. For the future they could provide additional
garage space, so sorely needed. Our present garage gave us $82.835.00
in revenue last year.
The proposed purchase area would also provide additional meeting
space and an area for a Library and Museum commensurate with the
dignity of the remainder of this building and the stature of the Grand
Lodge of California.
Your Committee unanimously believes this Grand Lodge should
request the Temple Board Trustees to acquire the two properties and
then prepare plans for the development of the entire area to be presented
to Grand Lodge for approval prior to the initiation of any construction.
The plan proposed by your Committee would obviate the necessity for
a per capita tax at this time. We. therefore, offer the following substitute
resolution :
RESOLVED. that the Temple Board Trustees be requested to acquire at the most reasonable price the two properties needed to complete
the area behind the Temple window and that said Trustees prepare
plans for the development of the property which shall be presented to
Grand Lodge for approval prior to any construction.
I move the adoption of the substitute resolution and the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "yes" vote.
The Committees on Jurisprudence and on Finance indicated their
concurrence in the recommendation .
Substitute resolution adopted.

CHANGE NAME OF MASONIC BOARDS OF RELIEF
(14)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. The Masonic Boards of Relief were established in
California over 100 years ago at a time when Maso.nry o~er~d t~e only
source of relief available to the Master Mason or his family m distress;
and
WHEREAS. today there is some type of City. County. State or
Federal Welfare benefits available to nearly all needy citizens from
"The Cradle to the Grave"; and
WHEREAS. actual Masonic Relief has been reduced to occasional
temporary assistance payments pending arrangements for more permanent welfare aid; and
WHEREAS. the present day functions of the Boards of Relief include but are not limited to: The dispensing of all types of Masonic
information proper to be made known; the operation of the Masonic
Blood Bank by many California Boards; arranging Masonic funeral
services for sojourning Masons; visiting and comforting the sick; assisting with the preparation of Masonic Homes applicatio_n.s for out of ~o:vn
Lodges and other Grand Lodge jurisdictions; counc1lmg _and ~dv1~mg
Brethren who bring a multitude of problems to the Board; mveshgahons
of all types concerning Master Masons or their families from all _Pa~ts
of the world; processing applications for assistance, the great ma)onty
of which are taken care of by some branch of public welfare, resulting
in a very small part of our funds being expended on actual Masonic
relief.
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: That the name of
our California Masonic Boards of Relief be changed from BOARDS
OF RELIEF to MASONIC SERVICE BUREAUS.
Respectfully submitted,
DWIGHT N . DEANE, P.M.,

No. 464
GEORGE C. CouRREGES, P.M.,

CLARENCE A. SEVERIN, P.M ..

No. 61
ROBERT W. MooRE, P.M ..

No. 349
No. 30
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and to the Board of Control.

The Board of Control:
Your Board of Control has studied Resolution No. 14. We are
of the opinion that these expanded services are illegal. unnecessary and
improper expenses to member Lodges. This is evidenced by our orders
to various Boards of Relief to discontinue these actions.
The change of name as suggested would tend to justify the subject
illegal acts.
We therefore recommend a "no" vote.

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 14 proposes that the name of our California Ma
·
Boards of Relief be changed from Boards of Relief to Masonic Seso~ic
rv1ce
Burea us.
Your Committee feels that at the present time it is not of pri
·
portance to change the name "California Masonic Boards of Rel:~_,i.rn" V..:,e. therefore, move the adoption of the resolution and recommend
a no vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 14 proposes to change the name of the Mas ·
Boards of Relief to Masonic Service Bureaus for the reason that ot~~
~any hwe~fare programs available to everyone today make it neces<.:ar
t. at t e Moard of Relief render only immediate temporary financial- asy
· d evote d to rendering services othe-.
sistance. .ost of the Boa rd s ' t.1me is
r
th an fi nanc1al.
Totachcofmplllish. the purpose of the proponents of the Resolution we
sugges t e o owmg.
'
b

~ESOLVED._,that the title of Section 603 California Masonic Code

m:~iya~~=;d!r~I'i<eBl.ofa:.ds
of Relief" to "Masonic Service Bureaus, for1e .

.dFSUR!HER RESOLVED, that the following be added at the end of
sat
ect1on.
"_ThaBt the name of Masonic Boards of Relief be changed to Masonic
S erv1ce ureaus,"
We move the adoption of this resolution.
A majority voted against the resolution.

EXPAND THE DUTIES OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
(15)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . ur A . M . o f C a [·t
•
1 orma:
1

. WHEREAS, the duties of our California Masonic Boards of
Relief. ~s ~et forth _in the California Masonic Code, are limited to ro _
:~IJ rehevmg the distress of visiting Masons, their widows and orpha!.
. WHERE~.S. thes~ rules were written at a time when there was
little o~no ava11ab~e assistance for distressed people, and
_W ERE~S. m our present day society there is some type of welfare
assistance .~vailabl~ to nearly everyone in need, from the "Cradle to
thhe Gfrave, ldand direct relief to sojourning Brethren or their families is
t ere ore se om called for, and
WHERE.~,.S. the activities of our Boards of Relief have evolved into
many ah.nd .vaned types of services to our Brethren, many of which are
not aut or1zed by the California Masonic Code, and

275

WHEREAS. there is documentary evidence that the services being
presently performed by our Boards of Relief have greatly benefited the
public Masonic image in the areas where there are Boards of Relief
operating, and
WHEREAS. in order to justify the continuance of our Board of
Relief offices, the authorized duties of our Boards, as set forth in the
California Masonic Code, need to be expanded.
NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that Section 603 of
the California Masonic Code entitled Boards of Relief be amended by
eliminating the first sentence and in its place substituting the following
sentence: Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction may form a Board of
Relief for the purposes of: Properly relieving the distress of visiting
Masons. their widows and orphans; the administration of a Masonic
Blood Bank which may include in its membership Lodges which are not
members of the particular Board of Relief who by their participation
will benefit the general operation of the Blood Bank Account; arranging
for Masonic funeral services for sojourning Masons; visiting ill and
shut-in sojourning Brethren and providing for their needs, when possible; assisting with the preparation of Masonic Home applications; conducting investigations concerning Masons or their families from all parts
of the world; and performing other services for Masonry which are not
in conflict with the prescribed functions of other divisions or committees
of Grand Lodge or with other sections of the California Masonic Code:
under a compact to be agreed upon among themselves and approved
by the Grand Lodge or Grand Master before becoming effective, wherein they may provide. among other things. for paying the expenses of the
work in such manner as shall seem proper.
Respectfully submitted,
Dw1GHT N. DEANE. P.M..
GEORGE C. CouRREGEs. P.M.,
No. 464
No. 349
CLARENCE A. SEVERIN. P.M..
ROBERT w. MOORE, P.M ..
No.61
No.30
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and
General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The effect of this resolution is to change only the flrst sentence of
Section 603 of the California Masonic Code to the extent of detailing
in explicit terms the duties presently ass umed to be implied in the words
"properly relieving the distress of visiting Masons, etc."
It is the opinion of this Committee that the words "and performing
other services for Masonry which are not in conflict with the prescribed
functions of other Divisions or Committees of the Grand Lodge or other
Sections of the California Masonic Code" may well include elements
of relief which can and should be performed by the local Lodge whose
responsibility it may be.

276

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

~our Committee is not in sympathy with the reasons set forth

gestmg expansion of the duties of Boards of Relief and also as a ' sug.
· matter
of c on~ern as to w h et h er t h e proponents of the resolution intend
tha
the actions of the Boards of Relief shall not be subject to the superv·1 1. t
s on
of the Board of Control.
cl
Your Committee therefore moves the adoption of this resolutio
nan
recommends a negative vote.
The Committee. on Jurisprudence indicated its approval of th
e reso·
1u t ion
as t o f orm an cl state d it carries out the purposes of the propo..
nents.
A majority voted against the resolution.

WITHDRAW AL OF LODGES FROM
BOARDS OF RELIEF
(16)
F. & A. M. of California:
Lodge
Grand
Worshipful
Most
the
To
WHEREAS, the relationship between sojourning Masons Lad
Boards of Relief. the Bo~rd o~ Control, and the Grand Lodge. are gge~~
erally defined and contained tn Sections 261 263 264 265 266 601
'
'
·
'
'
602, 603, 604. and 605 of the C.M.C. ; and
WHEREAS. Section 264 C.M.C. makes provision for the creation
of new Boards of Relief. but there is no provision for the withdrawal of
~odges from Boards of Relief or the discontinuance of Boards of Relief; and
WHEREAS: the operation of a Board of Relief may place an un~ec~s.sary financial burden upon the Lodges in its jurisdiction where
md1v1dual Lodges are able to provide sojourner relief;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED tha t:
l. ~ections 265 and 266 of the C.M.C. be renumbered 266 and 267
respectively and a new Section 265 be inserted as follows:
. 265. Withdrawal of Lodges from Boards of Relief or Oiscontmuance of a Board of Relief Functions. The Board of Control may
~pon showing by a Lodge. or Lodges, or a Board of Relief that i~
1s no longer in the interest of the Lodge or Lodges who may be
memb~rs of a Board of Relief to continue membership in the Board
~f Rel:d, or the activities of the Board of Relief should be discontmued, the Board of Control may terminate its compact with the
Lodge or Lodges involved. The Lodge. Lodges, or Board of Relief
may appeal the decision of the Board of Control to the Grand Master or to the Grand Lodge.
2. Add the following at the end of Section 603 C.M.C. :
· .. Whe~e it can be shown that it is no longer in the interest of
Masonry m general. or of any Lodge or Lodges who may be a
me~ber of a Board of Relief to continue membership in the Board
Relief. or the activities of the Board of Relief should be discontin-

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

ued, the Board of Control. upon showing by the Lodge. Lodges, or
Board of Relief may permit the cancellation of the existing compact with the Board of Control and grant the requested discontinuance of Board of Relief activities or Lodge participation therein. The
Lodge, Lodges, or Board of Relief shall file with the Board of Control and the Grand Master, proper notice of its intent to terminate
the relationship with the Board of Relief or Board of Control. The
Board of Control shall investigate into the matter if necessary and
shall advise the Lodge, Lodges, or Board of Relief involved of its
decision within 120 days of receipt of any said notice of intent. The
Lodge, Lodges. or Board of Relief may appeal the decision of the
Board of Control to the Grand Master or to the Grand Lodge. The
Grand Master's decision on the matter is subject to approval of
the Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication. Showing that
the Lodge or Lodges can and will provide adequate relief or other
assistance to sojourning Masons without the formal organization
of a Board of Relief shall constitute sufficient and proper cause for
withdrawal or discontinuance in the matter.
Respectfully submitted,
FREDERICK BOLTE, P .M ., No. 21

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committe.e on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 16 proposes a renumbering of two sections in our
Code and the enactment of a new section to be numbered 265 dealing
with the withdrawal of Lodges from membership in Boards of Relief.
The resolution as originally presented also contained a proposed
lengthy addition to Code Section 603. It has been stated to us that the
proponent expressed an intention to withdraw that latter portion because of changed circumstances. He has not communicated such intention to our Committee but our report and request is not affected by withdrawal or retention of the second half.
The first half of the resolution purports to operate solely on
something which does not exist. The proposed amendment would authorize. and I quote : "The Board of Control may terminate its compact
with the Lodge or Lodges involved ." We are not aware of any compact
between the Board of Control and any Lodge. The compa cts which
create Boards of Relief are compacts between the Lodges which comprise the board. The termination of such a compact poses many problems as to assets. distribution and, in some instances. substantial testamentary trusts which name a Board of Relief as the beneficiary. It is
possible that the money coming from such a trust might be lost because
of one or several withdrawals and what is the best policy for the Grand
Lodge to adopt might depend upon the terms of such trusts. What is

278

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

the best policy f~r the Grand Lodge would also depend upon the te
of the several d1fferent compacts which Lodges in different areas hrnta
entered into.
ave
It .has been impossible to ascertain these important details betwee
the filmg of the resolution and today.
n
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore 'reco
mends that Resolution No. 16 remain referred to this committee u ~j
the next Annual Communication and that no other action be take n
· ·
n on
1·t a t th·
. ts commumcat1on.
The Committee on f urisprudence:
Resolution No. 16 p~oposes legislation to enable Lodges to withdraw f.rom Boards of Relief and to permit the discontinuance of a Bo d
of Relief. To effect the intent of the proponent, we offer the followi:;:
RESOLVED. t~at a new section, to be numbered Section 26i.I,
be added to the California Masonic Code, to read as follows:
"Sec. 261.I. Withdrawal of Lodges from Boards of Relief.
The Board of Control, upon showing by a Lodge or Lodges or a
Board of Relief, that it is in the interest of such Lodge or Lodges
:"ho may be members of a Board of Relief to terminate membership
m such Board of Relief. or that the Board of Relief should be dissolved, may terminate the membership of such Lodge or Lodges in
the Board of Relief or dissolve such Board of Relief. The Lodge,
Lodges, or the Board of Relief may appeal the decision of the
Board of Control to the Grand Master or to the Grand Lodge. and
the Grand Master or Grand Lodge may affirm, modify or reverse
the decision of the Board of Control."
We offer the resolution without recommendation.
By action of Grand Lodge the recommendation of the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes to lay the matter over until the 1970 Annual
Communication was adopted,

COMMERCIALISM-POLICY MANUAL
(17)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHER~AS, there is much confusion existing among Lodges, concordant bodies, Ma~onic affiliated groups, women's organizations, and
youth orders. regardmg the various prohibitions related to fund raising
programs which may or may not be engaged in; and
'YHEREAS, there are various conflicting opinions which permit
certam .groups to do things which others cannot do under more .above
board circumstances; and
WHERE~~· it is possible to get around many of the prohibitions
by merely om1ttmg the name of the organization involved. which invites
these groups and individual Masons to violate the spirit, if not the letter,
of the law; and

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

279

WHEREAS. we are fast becoming an organization dedicated to
ulations that speak "thou shalt not," rather than an organization
re:·ch seeks to promote improved fraternal and public relations by en;:ragement of what "thou shalt" do; and
WHEREAS. relations between Grand Lodge and Masonic organif%ations have at times become strained unnecessarily because of misunderstanding or misinterpretation of existing Masonic law; and
WHEREAS, it may not be improper or un-Masonic to invite anyone to share in dignified activities which give full value for any payment
received if full disclosure is made of the intended use of funds derived;
and
WHEREAS. certain smaller lodges would benefit most by public
as well as fraternal support of projects to raise funds for new temples
or other.legitimate charitable purposes; and
WHEREAS. the committee reports in the 1961 proceedings of the
Grand Lodge related to commercialism, and in particular Exhibit XIII
on page 55, Proc 1961, are not generally available or even known to
the· current officers of our Lodges and other organizations; which regulations even seem to confuse rather than clarify the situation; and
WHEREAS, interest in joining the Masonic fraternity appears to
be lacking because there is presently little opportunity for public encounter and dialogue with Masons, thus the public remains generally ignorant
ol our aims and purposes;
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that sub-sections
326-d, 333-c, d. g. k, m, n, o, p. q, r, t, v, and 334-i of the C.M.C. be
repealed and the GraJ!d Lodge Committee on Commercialism, and the
Policy and General Purposes Committee prepare a clear and concise
policy manual intended to improve fraternal relations and permit specific
public participation in various fund raising programs of our Lodges and
Masonic related organizations. To comply with Section 333 C.M.C.,
the manual shall be approved by the Grand Master, and shall provide
the basis for compliance with the requirements of the law. Situations
not specifically contained in the manual shall be referred to the Grand
Master for specific approval as required by Section 333 C.M.C. Said
manual shall be widely distributed to all Lodges and to concordant bodies. women's organizations, Masonic youth groups. and shall be made
available to others with legitimate interest at nominal charge.
Respectfully submitted
FREDERICK BoLTE, P.M .. No. 21
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

280

PROCEEDINGS OF TH~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Before ·r eading the report we wish to call your attention to the fact
that the proponent of this resolution has withdrawn the reference to
sub-sections 326d, 333c. cl, g, k, m, n, o, p, q. r, t, v, and 331-i of the
C.M.C. which were to have been repealed.
Resolution No. 17 proposes that the Grand Lodge Committee on
Commercialism, and the Policy and General Purposes Committee prepare a clear and concise policy manual intended to improve fraternal
relations and permit specific public ~articipation in various fund raising
programs of our Lodges and Masonic related organizations. To comply
with Sec. 333 C.M.C. the manual shall be approved by the Grand
Master and shall provide the basis for compliance with the requirements of the law. Situations not specifically contained in the manual
shall be referred to the Grand Master for specific approval as required
by Sec. 333 C.M.C. Said manual shall be widely distributed to all
Lodges and to concordant bodies, women's organizations, Masonic
youth groups, and shall be made available to others with legitimate interest at nominal charge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that the
prepara_tion of s.uch a ~~nu~! m_ay we!l help to clarify our law relating
to specific public part1C1pat10n m var10us fund raising programs, and
~!so to help reduce the number of violations of our law. by having better
mformed members of both our Lodges and Masonic related organizations.
The Committee on Jurisprudence authorizes us to state that the
adoption of the resolution will accomplish the intended purpose of the
proponent, and they will not make a further report.
We move the adoption of Resolution No. I 7 and recommend a ''yes"
vote.
Adopted.

Masonic organizations be allowed to hold the usual and generally accepted social affairs on Sundays.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE C. CoURREGES, P.M., No. 349

SUNDAY MEETINGS AND OUTINGS
(18)
To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there is a great deal of confusion as to whether or
not Masonic Lodges and other Masonic organizations can hold gatherings of a social nature on Sunday; and
WHEREAS, it is the usual and generally accepted social custom
of holding such affairs on Sundays; and
:V~EREAS. these social gatherings have been going on from the
begmnmg of the human race and will continue long after we are gone;
NOW. THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that C.M.C. Sections 326, 326A, 326B. 326C, 3260, and 326E be repealed;
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Masonic Lodges and other

28J

Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponent.

SUNDAY MEETINGS AND OUTINGS
(19)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Masonic Lodges have held picnics and other gatherings of their members and families on Sundays for many years and
other Masonic organizations have held similar gatherings and circuses
on Sundays; and
WHEREAS, most Lodges and other Masonic organizations do not
have sufficient funds to pay all of the expenses of picnics, outings.
trips to join with other Lodges, circuses and other family gatherings
and of necessity those participating must help to share these expenses;
and
WHEREAS, our laws do not permit such affairs to include the public and require that such affairs be limited to Masons and their families
and friends;
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that Section 326 of
the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
326. Sunday M.eetings. No stated or special meetings of a Lodge
or the Grand Lodge shall be held on Sunday except for funeral
services and Grand Lodge cornerstone laying and dedication ceremonies for public school buildings or other exclusively public buildings directed to be held in the discretion of the Grand Master.
Lodges and other Masonic organizations may hold picnics, outings,
circuses and other family gatherings of their members, families and
friends for which tickets are sold. but there may not be any public
solicitation of sales of tickets to such affairs.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Annotations a. b, c, d and e
of Section 326 be, and they are hereby. repealed and deleted.
Respectfully submitted.
EUGENE S. HOPP, P.M .. No. 260
ERNEST J .ARMANDO, P.M.,
FRANCIS J. HERZ, P.M .. No.164
No. 500
IRA W. COBURN, P.M .. No. 216
EowARD J. MANCUSO. P.M ..
W. F. POYNTER, P.M .. No. 545
No. 111
J. R. THORNTON, P.M .. No. 22
L. HAROLD ANDERSON, P.M.,
No. 346
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

282

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

The Comm ittee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolut ion would permit a Lodge or other Mason ic organi
zations to hold picnics, outings , circuses and other family gatheri
ngs
attend ed by their members, families and friends on Sunday s and
would
allow tickets to be sold provid ed that the public was not solicite
d for
sales of the tickets.
This resolution would not change our basic law prohibiting Lodge
meetin gs, except for funeral s, on Sunda y or that portion which
permits
Sunda y corners tone laying and dedicat ion ceremonies for public
buildings when authori zed by the Grand Master . ( 326 & 326e)
Sunda y so-called family type gather ings or social activities have
be.come commonplace rather than the exception.
Rules on commercialism, approv ed by Grand Lodge as a matter
of
policy in 1961 ( 1961 Procee dings, pp. 26. 55, 287), permit the
sale of
tickets to members, their familie s or friends, for breakfa sts,
dinners ,
card parties , dances, bazaar s, and so forth, provide d they are
handle d
within the bounds of proprie ty and public suppor t or attendance.
is not
solicited.
I move adoptio n of the resolut ion and the Comm ittee on Policy
and Genera l Purpos es recomm ends a "yes" vote.
The Commi ttee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution propos es to amend Section 326 of the Califor
nia
Mason ic Code to permit Sunda y meetings and gatheri ngs.
Y our Comm ittee on Jurispr udence offers the following resolut
ion:
RESO LVED . that Section 326 be amend ed so as to read as follows
:
Section 326. Sunda y Meetin gs. No stated or special meetin gs
of a Lodge or the Grand Lodge shall be held on Sunda y except
for funeral services and Grand Lodge corners tone laying and dedication ceremonies for public school buildin gs or other exclusively
public buildin gs directe d to be held in the discret ion of the Grand
Master . Lodges and other Mason ic organiz ations may hold picnics
,
outings , circuses and other family gatheri ngs of their members, families and friends for which tickets are sold, but there may not
be
any public solicitation of sales of tickets to such affairs.
BE IT FURT HER RESO LVED that annota tions a. b, c, and
d of
said Section 326 be and they are hereby deleted from said Code.
Adopte d 5/6 vote.

YORK RITE SOVE REIG N COLLEGE
(20)
To the. Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHER EAS, a charter for York Rite Colleg e Numbe r 12 was issued
on May 11, 1957, to Gordo n Roberts of San Franci sco, Califor nia.
Since
he was unable to carry on the activities of the college, under
date of

J

283

4 1957 the author ity to complete the organiz ation of Colleg e Num-

b~~~ 2' was i~sued to George W. N ilsson of Los Angele s, Califor nia.

WHER EAS. York Rite Sovere ign Colleg e does .not con~e.r
any
degree s. The reason that the organiz ation was started m Detroit
years
a 0 was to help stimulate. interes t in Mason ry genera lly, be.cause
at that
ti~e it was found that in a number of Grand Lodges there was a
net
loss of membership.
NOW , THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED that it is recogn
ized
that York Rite Sovere ign Colleg e was in existen ce prior to Septem
ber
27 1957 the date when Amend ment 332.1 was adopte d and that
there.fo;e York Rite Sovereign Colleg e Numbe r 12 may ope.rate in Califor
nia.
Dated at Los Angele s this l 0th day of July, 1969.
Respec tfully s ubmitted.
FRANK A. AMIS, P.M .. No. 457
MoNTA W. SHIRLEY, P.M., No. 631
Referr ed to Comm ittee on Jurisprudence..
The above resolut ion was withdr awn by its propon ents.

PUBL ISH-M EETI NG DATE , NAM E, ADDRESS
AND EMBLEM IN NEW SPAP ER
(21)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California :
Section 333-u of the C.M.C . permits Lodges to ere.ct signs at
the
entranc es to the town or city in which the Lodge is located : such
sign
may exhibit the Mason ic Emblem and tell the name and numbe
r of the
Lodge, and where and when it meets.
The larger cities offer a special problem in that they don't really
begin and end, they just run into each other.
One method by which Lodges may reach people re.siding in their
areas, at least in the metrop olitan are.as, might be throug h announ
cements in the local newspa pers.
Such announ cements would contain the Mason ic Emblem , the name
and numbe r of the Lodge. and when and where it meets.
This announ cement might very well reach sojourn ers who do
not
have any idea of where to attend Lodge, and might very well result
in
applica tions for affiliation.
.
..
This announ cemen t would certain ly be m the be.st traditions
of
Mason ry for good taste and decoru m, and would be in ~eepin
g with
the same philoso phy which promp ted the passag e of Section 333-u.
NOW . THER EFOR E. BE IT RESO LVED that Section
333
C.M .C. be added to by additio n of the following wordin g:
A Mason ic Lodge may, if it so de.sires , cause to be published
in a
newspa per o f genera l circula tion in the area in which the Lod~e is
located
an announ cemen t composed of the followi ng: The Mason ic Emblem
,

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

name and number of the Lodge, address and dates of meetings. And
~urther, a Lodge may jointly with another Lodge or Lodges meeting
m the same temple join together in such an announcement. Cost of the
announcement is to be defrayed from the refreshment fund of the Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
A. G. ScuLL, P.M., No. 528
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee. on Policy and General Purposes:
R~s~lution N.o. 21 seeks to make it abundantly clear that a Lodge
may, 1f 1t so desires. publish an advertisement in a local newspaper to
announce the time and place of Lodge meetings, the name and number
of the Lodge, and to display the Masonic Emblem in so doing.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that such newspaper advertisements are presently permissible, but it
is recognized that there may have been, and there may be, very strictly
construed interpretations of annotation "u" under Section 333 of the
C.M.C. It is. therefore, probably beneficial that action be taken by the
~ran~ Lodge :Vhich will leave. no question as to the propriety of a Lodge
msertmg a paid advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation to
publicize the name and number of the Lodge, where and when it meets,
and in so doing to use the Masonic Emblem to draw attention to the
advertisement.
I, therefore, move the adoption of Resolution No. 21 and your Committee recommends a "yes" vote.

The Committee on f urisprudence:
This resolution would authorize publication in a newspaper of general circulation of an announcement composed of the Masonic Emblem
and the name, number, address and meeting dates of a Lodge; joint
announcements by Lodges; and source of funds.
While there is at present no specific prohibition or authorization regarding such publication, in order to remove any uncertainty as to its
legality, the Committee proposes the following:
RESOLVED: That an annotation be added to Section 333 of the
California Masonic Code to read as follows: "A Masonic Lodge may,
if it so desires, cause to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the area in which the Lodge is located, an announcement composed of the following: The Masonic Emblem, name and number of the
Lodge, address and dates of meetings. And further, a Lodge may jointly
:Vith another Lodge or Lodges meeting in the same temple, join together
m such an announcement. Cost of the announcement is to be defrayed
from the refreshment fund of the Lodge."
Adopted 5/6 vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

285

TRESTLEBOARD-ENTERED APPRENTICE
AND FELLOWCRAFTS
(22)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Entered Apprentices and Fellowcrafts many times
do not receive notice of meetings or social functions and family d inners
that they may attend, such notice often being overlooked by their
coaches.and
WHEREAS, the postman and the trashman, among others, can read
the Lodge trestleboard, there would seem to be no valid reason to exclude Entered Apprentices and Fellowcrafts from the mailing list of
the trestleboard which now can have their names listed for the degrees,
and
WHEREAS, the Fraternity tries to impress the new brothers, they
are anxious to participate, recognition can be given by sending them
the trestleboard so they can immediately feel a "part" of the Lodge
and become active while they are under the influence of their initiation
or passing.
NOW, BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that annotation "m"
be· added to ordinance 334 of the C.M.C.: "The names of all members
of the Lodge. Entered Apprentices, Fellowcrafts and Master Masons
may be furnished in a roster to the printer for the purpose of mailing
the Lodge Trestleboard" and any annotation or ordinance in conflict
with this be changed to comply.
Respectfully submitted,
ROBERT J. SIEBER, M., No. 815
MELVIN L. HURST, P.M.,
JosEPH W. NEGUS, P.M.,
No. 815
No. 436
GEORGE D. LoBER, P.M.,
NORMAN L. WEILER, M.,
No. 436
No. 419
SALVATORE GIULIANO, P.M.,
No. 436
JAMES R. SMITH, M., No. 436
ELMER A. LEDONNE, M.,
EvEREIT WooD, P.M .. No. 301
No. 590
CALVING. SHORES, M., No. 301
EDGAR
w. OGDEN, P.M.•
G. NELSON LoRTIE, P.M.,
No.
301
No. 590
PHILLIP F. HOFER, P.M.,
)AMES
DAVIDSON, P.M.,
No. 815
No. 301
JAMES
H. PEARSON, P.M.,
EDMOND
BRINDERSON, P.M..
No.
283
No. 427
WAYNE F. NELSON, P.M.,
LENORD s. COLLINS, P.M.,
No. 301
No. 815

w.

c.

JoHN W. DALEY, P .M .. No. 815
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

286

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

The Com mitte e on Jurisprudence:
This resolution wou ld auth orize the furn
ishin g of a mailing list to
a print er, such list to inclu de Ente red App
renti ces and Fello w Craf ts,
as well as Mas ter Mas ons. for the purp ose
of mailing the Lodg e trest leboar d.
Alth ough anno tatio n "g" to Sect ion 334
of the Calif ornia Mas onic
Cod e coul d be inter prete d as proh ibitin g such
prac tice, there is at pres ent
no specific proh ibitio n agai nst it.
To effect the inten t of the prop osed resol
ution , the Com mitte e propose s the following:
RES OLV ED: Tha t an anno tatio n be adde
d to Sect ion 334 of the
Cali forn ia Mas onic Cod e to read as follo
ws: "Th e nam es of all members of the Lodge, inclu ding Ente red App
renti ces, Fello w Craf ts. and
Mas ter Mas ons, may be furni shed in a
roste r to the print er for the
purp ose of mailing the Lodg e trest lebo ard."
Ado pted 5/ 6 vote.

RES EAR CH LOD GES -BA LLO T ON
APP LIC ANT S
WIT HO UT REF ERE NCE TO COM MIT
TEE
(23)
To the Mos t Wor ship ful Gra nd Lodg e F.
& A. M . of California:
WH ERE AS. the time requ ired for notic
e, inve stiga tion and elevtion of appl ican ts prov ided in the uniform
code of By-L aws is not less
than 30 days , and ( 345, 529 C.M .C.)
WH ERE AS. a dimit is not requ ired for
affiliation and plura l members hip in a Rese arch Lodg e ( 385- 3.). and
WH ERE AS. State d Mee tings of Rese
arch Lodg es are held only
quar terly ( 385-11 ) , the acqu isitio n of mem
bersh ip there in is subj ect to
unre ason able dela y and inco nven ience
of inter ested Bret hren to no
purp ose.
NOW . THE REF ORE . BE IT RES OLV
ED that for Rese arch
Lodg es only , the requ irem ent for inve stiga
tion of appl ican ts for affiliation be waiv ed by modification of para grap
h 385- 12, C.M .C. as follows:
''Th e form s of Petit ion for Disp ensa tion,
Petit ion for Char ter. Cha rter and Unif orm Code of By-L aws shall
be adop ted for use of Rese arch
Lodg es inso far as the prov ision s may be
appl icab le to such Lodg es."
THA T THE PRO VIS ION FOR REF
ERR AL OF PET ITIO NS
TO A COM MIT TEE OF THR EE FOR
BAL LOT ING AT THE
NEX T STA TED MEE TIN G BE INA
PPL ICA BLE .
This new word ing wou ld have the desir able
effect of perm itting any
Mas on in good stand ing to affiliate with
a Calif ornia Rese arch Lodg e

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

287

. ton Ther efor e be it resolved that this
princ iple be apn app1ica i •
L d
Cali
forn
ia
Rese
arch
o
ges.
Prove or
. d
Resp ectfu lly su b m1tte
.
N 545
JOHN G. MEREDITH, M., ECR L
F POYNTER, PM
. .. o.
· . · NCR L
Rov R. CRAWFORD, M .. CCR L
&M ..
JoHN R NocA s. M .. SCR L
d G
Refe rred to Com mitte es on Juris prud ence
, and on Polic y an
eneral Purp oses .
.C mittee on Polic y and General Purposes:
. . .
The om
h
he Rese arch Lodg es of this )Urts
. ~esolutioe~m~t~~J~:~o:i~ste~;o~t :ppli cant
s
for
me~b
e.
r
ship
wit~
out
d1ct1on ~e. p f
the prov1s1on or re ferra 1 to an d repo rt from an inve sttga tmg committee
of the Lodge. .
You r Com mitte e on P o 1·icy an d Gen eral Purp oses is unan imou s In
A R
h Lod e unde r
its beli~f t.ha~ this /s :at~ d:~ir~~g~r~~0
(:3~i
iforn
i:s~:
r~
Lodg~ and it
the junsd~ct10n ~ t e raL d
As such we believe there shou ld be
1

uPo d f

w

~~n~~~i~ti~~ ~~~;~~se ::t:bRli~h;~· phroLoceddure~ fWor eel~~\~~~etoth:~~~~rst7%~
b . b

ffil ' t'on in a

~~c~!sa~ ~or~~~ in~estigating_ committeegtoh· d~~~;rgf~;t~~uZ,~g~~ .1
~:
.
nvenience to the cand idate nor a ar
p
esea rc

~~r:~~~ believe that the estab lishm ent of ai:iy exceptio~

. .
to
~;11e
i~r~v
{~~~:
. to do with the proc edur es for election
h avin
to mem ers ip
g
d
f
d
has serio us implications o prec e ence w h'ic h shou ld not be coun tena nce .
d .. o" vote
We move the adop tion of the resol ution an d
reco mme n a n
.
The Com mittee on Jurisprudence:
Reso lutio n No. 23 prop oses to perm it
Resi:arch Lodg es to ballo t
upon appl icati ons for mem bersh ip w ithou
t prev ious refer ral to a com mitte e for inve stiga tion and repo rt there on.
.
To accomplish this we sugg est the following
.
RES OLV ED: Tha t Sect ion 385, sub- para:
grap h 12. o~ the Cali f
. Mas onic Cod e be ame nded by addi ng
the followmg at. the
ordmah
f
en t ereo : " provide d· how ever ' that the prov ision s of Sect ions
345 and 529 of this Code , for refer ral of app1. ·
ittee
of three for inve stiga tion and repo rt there icat1ons to a cfmt~ Reon shall not app y
sear ch Lodg es."
.
A majo rity vote d agai nst the resolution.

288

289

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DISPLAY MASONIC EMBLEMS
(24)

or controlled by others, toge.ther with restrictions which might be imed by governmental agencies.
pas Your Committee does not feel that Gran~ Lodge should attempt
deflne or prescribe the circumstances relating to the placement of
~blems upon buildings occupied by Masonic Lodges a?d that. the
subject is one best h.andled by good judgment and Masonic propriety.
based on individual circumstances.
_
I move adoption of the resolution and the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.

To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. there is no present Ordinance or Policy of this Grand
Lodge respecting the display of the Masonic Emblem. the Square and
Compass, upon or adjacent to a Masonic Temple or a Lodge Hall, and
WHEREAS. it is not repugnant to Masonic principles for the
emblems of concordant Masonic organizations to be displayed in the
same general location as the Masonic Emblem.
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that this Grand Lodge
does hereby enact the following Ordinance to be added to Part II,
Article I of the California Masonic Code, Relative to Constituent
Lodges:
"Section 386. The Square and Compass may be displayed upon or
near a Masonic Temple or Lodge Hall in the same general location
which is used for the display of the emblems of the concordant Masonic
organizations. The Square and Compass may be displayed in any position with reference to any of the emblems of the concordant Masonic
organizations. whether such display is in the form of a circle. a horizontal line, a perpendicular line, or any other geometric pattern."
Respectfully submitted,
JAMES H. LEACH, P.M .. No. 35
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes Resolution No. 24 which seeks to add to the ordinances of
Grand Lodge a new section relating to the display of the Square and
Compass upon or near a Masonic Temple or Lodge Hall when the
Square and Compass is to be placed in the same general location used
for the display of the emblems of concordant Masonic organizations.
The proposed new section further recites that the Square and Compass may be displayed in any position with reference to any of the
emblems of the concordant Masonic organizations, whether such display is in the form of a circle. a horizontal line, a perpendicular line,
or any other geometric pattern.
Your Committee notes that Masonic Lodges may be and, in fact.
are quartered in buildings sometimes owned by Lodges or Lodge Temple Associations. at other times by Masonic related organizations, or
by non-Masonic or other types of ownership.
We call attention to the difficulty, and in certain instances impossibility, of establishing regulations sufficiently broad enough to cover the
entire range of placement of our Masonic emblems on buildings owned

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence presents the following resolution
to carry out the intended purpose of the proposer of Resolution No. 24.
RESOLVED: That this Grand Lodge does hereby enact the following Ordinance to be added to Part II, Article I of the California Masonic
Code. Relative to Constituent Lodges:
"Section 334.1. The Square and Compass may be displayed
upon or near a Masonic Temple or Lodge Hall in the same general location which is used for the display of the emblems of the
concordant Masonic organizations. The Square and Compass may
be displayed in any position with reference to any of the emblems
of the concordant Masonic organizations, whether such display is
in the form of a circle, a horizontal line, a perpendicular line, or
any other geometric pattern."
For the purpose of putting the resolution before Grand Lodge we
move the adoption of the resolution.
A majority voted against the resolution.

CERTAIN EXPENSES OF CORNERSTONE CEREMONIES
TO BE ASSUMED BY GRAND LODGE
(25)
To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, it is the declared desire of the Grand Lodge of California, together with all the Lodges in its jurisdiction, to support the
public schools, and
.
WHEREAS, one prime method of evidencing such support ts
through laying of cornerstones by the Grand Lodge for new schools
when requested by public authorities, and
WHEREAS, when such ceremonies are performed, the entire Body
of Freemasonry receives credit and benefits therefrom, and
WHEREAS. the intense programs for building schools, with resulting cornerstone laying ceremonies, presently taking place in rap~
idly developing areas of the State tends to be a drain upon the finances
of individual Lodges within such areas, and
WHEREAS, said cornerstone ceremonies and resulting publicity

290

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

are inten ded to emp hasi ze to the yout h
o f our Stat e the arch itect ures and
corn ersto nes upon whic h this na tion was
foun ded , and
WH ERE AS, certa in loca l Lod ges do
not. in them selv es, have sufficien t fund s to appr opri ately receive and
prov ide for the Gran d Lod ge
and its officers in a man ner suita ble to
the occa sion ,
NO W. THE REF ORE . BE IT RES OLV
ED that the Gra nd Lod ge
shou ld assis t in defr ayin g the basi c
cost of corn ersto ne layin g even ts
thro ugh fund s deri ved by a per capi
ta tax in an amo unt to be fixed
by the Fina nce Com mitt ee, s uch expe nses
to be repa id to the loca l Lod ge
upon the filing of a claim for such assis
tanc e. Said basi c cost shou ld, at
least , inclu de the cost of the s tone and
the seal ed cont aine r, and the
cost of prin ting mate rials , prog rams and
invit ation s necessar y to succ essfully cond uct the corn ersto ne layin g cere
mon y.
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
CHA RLE S A. GRO SSM AN, M., No.
380
KEN NET H B. CON KLIN , P.M ..
0 . H . CAR SON , M., No. 616
No. 616
FRA NKL IN D . KEN NEDY, M.,
ALL YN W. BAR ROW S , S. W.,
No. 787
No. 809

Refe rred to Com mitt ees on Poli cy and
Gen eral Purp oses , and on
Fina nce.

The Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen eral Purp

oses:
Reso lutio n No. 25 calls for the part
icipa tion of the Gra nd Lod ge
in the finan cial obli gatio ns atte ndan t
to corn ersto ne layin g cere mon ies.
You r Com mitt ee on Poli cy and Gen
eral Purp oses belie ves that the
purp ose of the reso lutio n is prop er
and that undu e financial burd en
shou ld not be plac ed upon any cons
titue nt Lod ge due to the occa sion
of a corn ersto ne layin g cere mon y. Such
cere mon ies are unde r the ausp ices of the Gra nd Lod ge and they are
cond ucte d entir ely by the officers
o f the Gra nd Lod ge. A host cons titue
nt Lod ge may nece ssari ly be very
muc h a part icipa nt in the plan ning and
prep arat ion for a corn ersto ne
layin g cere mon y, and it may desi re to
shar e in the cost s invo lved with
the cere mon y, but no Lod ge shou ld
be obli gate d beyo nd that whic h
it can affo rd due to its part in supp ortin
g a Gra nd Lod ge cere mon y.
The prop osed reso lutio n calls for a per
capi ta tax for this purp ose.
You r Com mitt ee feels that the fund s
need ed are not in an amo unt to
justi fy a specific per capi ta tax, but rath
er the fund s shou ld com e from
the gene ral fund s of the Gra nd Lod ge.
I, ther efor e, mov e the adop tion
of a subs titut e reso lutio n to read as follo
ws:
RES OLV ED, that the Gra nd Lod ge
may assis t in defr ayin g
the basi c cost of corn ersto ne layin g even
ts with fund s of the Gra nd
Lod ge. Said basi c cost may inclu de the
cost of the stone, the seal ed
cont aine r and prin ting mate rials . prog rams
and invit ation s nece ssar y
to succ essfu lly cond uct the corn ersto ne
layin g cere mon y.

291

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

The Com mitt ee on Fina nce indi cate d

its conc urre nce in the reco m-

asen dation.
Subs titut e reso lutio n adop ted.

DIS CRE TIO NA RY EXP END ITU RES
(26 )
. ul Gra nd Lod ge F. & A. M. of California:
To the. Mo st Wor sh1p f

h . f il have ever y righ t to
WH ERE AS . a dece ased Brothder or
c~shi:~r rheir memorial wish es,
txpe c t th at Mas ons will obse rve an resp e
and
re uire d by law to almo st tota lly
WH ERE AS . Lod ges adre n~w .
. e ard. igno re and aban on t : . w1s s of a d epar ted Brot her or his
.
d
d1sr g h
. i· of flow ers requeest is
f ily w en an ..m
ma e,
ieu
am
d
EFO RE BE IT RES OLV ED that Sect
ion 411 be chan ge
THE R .'.
.. lieu oE flowers' cont ribu tion may
be made. to
to inclu de Also an . m h
char itabl e or phil ant ropt.c fun d . soci ety asso ciati on. foun datio n.
.. .
~~urch, Lod ge build ing or scho larsh ip fund .
Resp ectfu lly subm itted ,
RoB ERT GRIF FITH , M .. N o. 402
S B. WHI TEH EAD , PM
.
.,
JAME
w HITE M N 384
No.
RoBE RT F.
402
.
., o.

h

CAL VIN G . M A N

N

o.

425

CLY DE E.

N

R

390

NI NG M
•
.,

RON ALD E. ADA MS,

pM

GER ALD E. KEE S EE,
N
390

ODGE ~S .

.

N

o.

..

o.
K R
pM
How ARD . oBEN , . .•

402

s.w.,

s.w..

o.

WIL LIAM A. ELFR !NG, M ..

No. 390

N

390

o.

NEL SON WAL DRO P , f.W .,
No. 390
Refe rred to Com mitt ees on Juris prud

ence , and on Poli cy an

d G

en~

eral Purp oses .
Th Com mitt ee on Policy and General Purp
oses:
. .
e
.
Lod e fund s for a cont ribu tion
This resolutio n wo~ ld permt~ usen~ f socie
~ asso ciati on, foun datio n .
to any char itabl e or ph1lanthrhopl1c f~·
chur ch. Lod ge build ing or sc o ars ip 'f nd i:·li eu of flow ers for a de~
ceas ed erso n whe n requ este d by the fami
ly.
Pre~ent regu latio ns perm it cont ribu tions
. in lieu of flow ers. to the
Mas onic Hom es .E ndow men t Fu~:~ use
oE Lod ge fu nds shou ld not be
you r Committ ee feels_ tha_t
an unlim ited num ber of orga niza exte nded to inclu~e contrl1dbubt1ons tto
to Mas onic belie fs. but rath er
.
e con rary
t1ons, som e of whic h cou
..
ld
b
fi
d to Mas onic caus es or c har1t1
that cont ribu tion s shou
es.
e con ne

292

293

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Death alone should not permit us to make donations that we are
otherwise prohibited from making.
I move adoption of the resolution and the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence
which reports as follows:
This resolution proposes to permit Lodges to observe and respect
the wish of a departed Brother or his family that contributions be made
in lieu of flowers.
The proposed resolution requires the amendment of Section 411 by
an addition to the second paragraph.
In addition, annotations 409m and n in broad terms prohibit such
charitable contributions. The proposed resolution to be acted upon
today, unless it includes language deleting annotations 409m and n,
creates an inconsistenc•y. The Committee, therefore, believes that to accomplish the purpose of Resolution No. 26 annotations 409m and n
shou Id be deleted.
The following resolution would accomplish the expressed purpose
of Resolution No. 26:
RESOLVED, that Section 411 be amended by adding at the end
of the flrst sentence of the second paragraph the words, "or any charitable or philanthropic fund. society, association, foundation, church.
lodge building or scholarship fund," and by amending the last sentence
of the second paragraph by deleting the words. "Such donation," and
substituting therefor the words "A donation to the Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund.''
IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED that annotations 409m and n
should be and are hereby deleted.
The Committee moves the adoption of the resolution.
A majority voted against the resolution.

WHEREAS. these quali6cations have continued through the ages
solely to maintain uniformity in ritual. which has excluded many men
of good character from joining our ranks. and
WHEREAS, the ritual is one of the tools which is used to teach
candidates the above tenets, and any workman worth his keep will
adapt bis tools to accomplish his purpose, and
WHEREAS, since we no longer work in operative Masonry, but
speculative only, the stringent physical requirements are contrary to
the fundamental principles of Masonry.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that section 511 of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"511. Moral and physical qualifications. An applicant for the degrees of Masonry must be a man; no woman or eunuc~; fre~ born,
being neither a slave nor the son of a bond woman; a be~1ever m G~d
and a future existence: of moral conduct; capable of readmg and writing ; having no maim or defect in his body except the loss of limb or
limbs or other impairment which can be remedied with aid of a prosthesis, thereby rendering him capable of learning the art, and physically
able to conform substantially to what the several degrees respectively
require of him."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that section 512 be amended to
read as follows :
"512. Sound discretion required. The question as to the physical
sufficiency of the applicant shall be left to the sole discretion of the
Lodge. When the applicant is unable to comply literally with the physical requirements without the aid of the prosthesis. the Master shall
state nature and extent of his disabilities to the Lodge before the ballot
is taken, and any prosthesis that is usually worn or used by the applicant for the performance of his daily tasks may be used by him to
qualify himself for the physical requirements and they shall at once be
considered an actual part of the physical structure of the body, and no
discrimination shall be made where this is an issue."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that annotations 512( a). (c).
(h) and (i) be and the same are hereby deleted.
Respectfully submitted,
JACK T . EsTOLL, M., No. 226
RALPH W. GAINES, P.M., No. 226
EARL A. DAVIS, P.M.• No. 226
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

{27)
A resolution designated as No. 27 was withdrawn by its proponents after distribution to the constituent Lodges but prior to the opening of Grand Lodge.

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATION
(28)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M . of California:
WHEREAS, Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth are the principal
tenets of our fraternity, and
WHEREAS. our present physical quali6cations adopted of necessity for the protection of the Brethren when operative Masonry was
in force, and

The Committee on Ritual:
Your Committee on Ritual, to which was referred Resolution No.
28 proposing the elimination of the requirements of physical quali6cation or modification of our existing requirements, has carefully con-

294

295

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIJ\

sidered this prop~sal. We have considered it without emotion and only
from the standpoint of what in our opinion would be good for Masonry.
Resolutions to reduce the physical qualifications of applicants have
come before this Grand Lodge regularly. in recent years particularly,
and all have been defeated by votes of the Brethren. In 1961, 1962
I 963. 1964. I 967 and I 968 such resolutions were opposed by the Rituai
Committee, and were defeated overwhelmingly in each instance.
This proposal is practically identical to Resolution No. I 8 presented
and acted upon at our 1968 Annual Communication. This resolution
was defeated by written ballot. It required a 5/ 6 majority, but received
only a 3/7 favorable vote.
Masonry selects its cc:indidates and admits them only after careful
investigation and a unanimous ballot. No one has a right to become a
Mason. It is a privilege granted to a comparatively small number.
To begin with , we exclude half of the human race. No woman can
become a Mason. Half of the remainder of the population is likewise
excluded, namely anyone under the required age of 21 years. In California , for more than one hundred years. we have adhered to the regulation that no one having a maim or defect in his body that may render
him incapable of learning the art and physically unable to conform to
what the several degrees respectively require of him, can become a
M ason.
The physical requirements for qualification of candidates for the
degrees of Masonry are probably as old as Masonry itself. They are
a su rvival of Operative Masonry and a re peculiar to the Masonic institution, just as are the regulations excluding women and minors. One
of the Ancient Landmarks stated by Dr. Mackey. and which for several
decades has been printed in the Ross Digest and our M asonic Code.
is the "qualification of candidates for initiation." as the 18th Landmark.
A natural sympathy for those unfortunate men who have suffered severe physical injuries has caused numerous propsals to change the old requirements, and these have been presented throughout the history of
our Grand Lodge. They have been rejected except for the compromise
which resulted in the adoption of our present regulations many years
ago, now contained in Sections 511 and 512 of the C.M.C.: "having
no maim or defect in his body that may render him incapable of learning
the art, and physically able to conform substantially to what the several
degrees respectively require of him." The question as to phys ical sufficiency of the applicant is left to the sound discretion of the Lodge, and
it is determined by the ritual.
Since the rule as to physical qualification has existed for so long
that it is at leas t regarded as one of the Ancient Lmdmarks it should
not be changed without some change in the condition of the Craft which
would compel it. We may properly inquire what change has occurred
in the condition of the Craft which would now require a change in our

ancient regulation. We know of none. Masonry does not go out and
seek candida tes; we select those who apply. and they must apply of
their own free will and accord.
If these proposals were adopted, it would require a different ritual
for each case of physical defect. depending upon the nature and severity
of the particular deformity. This would completely destroy any unifonnity in the ritual. Under our law. the conferrinrJ of a degree must
be in conformity with the es tablished ritual taught by the Grand Lecturer. and the conferring of a degree in a merely symbolic manner is
out of the question. ( C.M.C. Section 512-j.) Unless we are prepared
to do away with uniformity of the ritual. carefully built up for a century.
and prescribed by Sections 554 and 555 of the C.M.C., we cannot
change the rule as to physical qualifications. This proposed legislation
does not purport to change Sections 554 or 555 of the Code.
In our opinion, this Grand Lodge has already gone as far in meeting
physical insufficiency as it can reasonably go. making it depend upon
the applicant's ability to conform substantially to what the ritual may
require of him.
We disapprove the resolution and urge a "no" vote.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 28, referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes. proposes amendment of Sections 511 and 512 of the California
Masonic Code and relates to the admission of applicants for degrees
who have suffered the loss of a limb or limbs or other impairments which
can be remedied with the aid of a prosthesis. thereby rendering such
applicants capable of learning the art and physically able to conform
substantially to the requirements of the several degrees. It is practically
in the same language and to the sa me purpose as Resolution No. 18
considered and recommended favorably by the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes but failed a majo rity vote at the last convocation
of this Grand Lodge in 1968.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has thoroughly
discussed this resolution on several occasions but was unable to reach
unanimous agreement. This report, therefore, represents the majority
opinion and recommendation only.
The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that the reasoning
expressed by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and which
is printed on page 268 of the 1968 Proceedings. is not only still valid
and compelling but has been made even more so by the passage of time
and the events thereof during which man daily runs the risk of losing
what we term his "physical qualifications." As it refers to the 1968 resolution and commencing immediately following the introductory paragraph it reads as follows:
''This resolution presents a direct confrontation between the
requirements of traditional regula tions and fundamental Masonic

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

principles. In bala~ce and stark contrast stand the tenet of Brotherly
Love and the requirements of present Masonic law.
The fact that our present rule has existed for a long period of
time establishes no case for its merit. Rather, the fact that almost no
Mason feels entirely comfortable with this regulation makes timely
and thorough examination of its merits highly desirable.
All men are captives of their corporeal beings, and stand in constant risk of debilitating and humiliating injury. Accident and unfortunate happenstance cast a dark enough shadow across the
lives of us all. No man or group of men should add to this burden
without having serious and compelling reasons so to do.
That our rules as they now stand add to the already frightful
burden of the maimed and injured is beyond question. With the rejected applicant, the effect is direct and immediate. But all men embraced within the ambit of our rules are poorer as a result. Only the
strongest reasons should cause us to add the weight of disqualification to all of the uncertainties and self-doubts associated with
serious injury.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that
such compelling reasons do not exist. With the aid of modern prosthetic science, seriously injured persons can perform tasks that require great agility and dexterity. Many men who have suffered the
loss of a limb or limbs, or other physical injury, can substantially
(and in some cases fully) comply with the requirements of our degrees. These men in our opinion should be able to participate in our
privileges.
These new applicants would doubtless benefit from a Masonic
affiliation. Our Lodges would have a new source of interest and
strength. Most importantly, we would stand taller as men and
Masons by so providing."
Except for the recommendation for an affirmative vote this ends
the Committee's 1968 report on this subject.
'
The Committee on Jurisprudence authorizes this Committee to report that the proposed amendments would accomplish the purpose of
the proponents and, therefore, will not make any report thereon.
The majority of your Committee on Policy and General Purposes
moves the adoption of this resolution and recommends an affirmative vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

297

MULTIPLE CANDIDATES-CONFERRING OF DEGREES
(29)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the 1963 report on the Special Commission of Masonic
Practices likened our Fraternity to a "reposing titan"-having a great
potential and questioned how to transform this potential strength into
a vigorous force for good, and
WHEREAS, our efforts are stultified or as one PGM wrote, the
Craft "suffers from some fraternal hardening of the arteries, and
WHEREAS, we are no longer able to obtain leaders of high caliber
the progressive line is many times wea kened by those who quit because
of other interest, and
WHEREAS, investigation has shown that sojourners are left cold
and uninterested, and
WHEREAS, the problem of non-attendance and apathy is fed by
the "sheer frequency of meetings," "especially where there is a high factor of repetition of activity," which reduces the meaning thereof even
as TV cigarette commercials waste themselves away by repetition, and
WHEREAS, to combat absenteeism, pleas have been made for
more Lodge-related social activties: "they dearly evidence a realization
that the day of the traditional 'men' s house' has passed," and
WHEREAS, more enthusiasm must be generated for our Public
Schools Observance, Constitution Observance, etc .. and
WHEREAS, there is an overbearing burden on the Lodge members,
particularly the officers to meet once a week or more to be able to accomplish the "work," and
WHEREAS, QUALITY rather than QUANTITY is being
stressed, and
WHEREAS, our Lodges have come to be regarded, in public and
private, as DEGREE MILLS, operating merely for the sake of necessary repetition; an entire day or night of repeating the same degree with
little if any participation by the handful of sideliners, and
WHEREAS, meetings less frequent would realease us f.rom "going
because I have to be there" to "going because I want to be there," and
WHEREAS. even the Churches, as evidenced by the ecumenical
movement, have recognized that archaic practices and doctrines must
be changed to keep the Church viable so must the Grand Lodge recognize that we too, have these same problems, and
WHEREAS, by reducing the number of meetings thus saving PRECIOUS TIME for fraternization at refreshment; lodge related social
activities, Public Schools observance, etc .. would promote greater attendance among the Brethren, we suggest and pray that the Grand
Lodge will consider the wisdom of putting up to flve candidates for any

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

degree at a time. as in the prerequisite bodies (the esoteric work of the
Master Mason Degree must be discussed) which will reduce the work
load; the number of degree meetings and increasing attendance.

tations were taken. These clauses also assert as facts certain conclusions which the signers believe would result if the proposed amendment were adopted. We shall not attempt to answer them in detail.
not from any lack of answers or conviction that the adoption of the
amendment is not the panacea to small attendance in many lodges or
that fewer deg ree nights will not increase attendance at Public School
or Constitution observances.

NOW. THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Section 525 of the
California Masonic Code be changed to read:
Restrictions on Conferring Degrees. "No Lodge under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge shall confer any degree of Masonry on Sunday; nor shall it confer degrees upon more than five applicants at any
one meeting; nor shall it confer more than one degree upon any one
applicant at any one meeting; NOR SHALL IT CONFER ANY OF
THE DEGREES UPON MORE THAN FIVE APPLICANTS AT
A TIME; nor shall it confer more than five degrees in any one day."
Respectfully submitted,
RoBERT J. SIEBER, M .. No. 815
GEORGE D. LOBER, P.M.,
CALVING. SHORES, M .. No. 301
No. 436
SALVATORE GIULIANO, P.M.,
G. NELSON LORTIE, P.M.,
No. 436
No. 590
ELMER A. LEDONNE, M ..
LENORD s. COLLINS, P.M..
No. 590
No. 815
PHILLIP F. HOFER, P.M.,
JoHN W. DALEY, P.M., No. 815
No. 815
MELVIN L. HURST, P.M.,
JAMES H. PEARSON, P.M ..
No. 815
No. 283
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

The Committee on Ritual:
Your Committee on Ritual opposes this resolution on the basis
stated in the Report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
wherein references were enumerated in regard to the difficulties to be
encountered in the conferring of multiple degrees and on the basis that
such legislation would be contrary to C.M.C. Sections 554 and 555, and
the comments made in the Report of the Committee on Jurisprudence
relative to the preservation of our established ritual.
We strongly urge a "no" vote.
The Committee. on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 29 proposes to amend section 525 of the California
Masonic Code to make it permissible to conduct up to five candidates
at one time through the ceremonies of our degrees.
The "whereas" clauses which precede the language of the proposed
amendment are numerous and contain numerous phrases enclosed in
quotation marks without disclosing the source from which the quotation
was derived or the remainder of the several texts from which the quo-

299

This committee does not believe that the answer to the issue can
be based upon an assertion that to adopt the amendment would be a
violation of basic Masonic law because the proposal is to a mend our
basic law, the California Masonic Code . which contains our constitution
and all of our ordinances. Nor can it be said that to adopt the proposed
amendment would be a violation of some body of law above or superior
to our Code which binds all Grand Lodges because such contention
is equivalent to charging the Grand Lodges of New York and Michigan
and perhaps others with being violators of basic M asonic law or principles for in these two jurisdictions (and perhaps others) as many as fi ve
candidates may and are conducted at one time.
Likewise, the answer does not lie in the field of ritual because
from time to time our Grand Lodge has made changes; for example,
about 1910 when the second section of the third degree was first adopted
in the form which we now use to begin that part. Any such r itualistic
premise is also answered by pointing to the fact that at least the Grand
Lodges of New York and Michigan have experienced no difficulty in
making their rituals conform to their law.
We must look elsewhere to determine whether this proposed amendment should be adopted or not adopted. We believe that the answer
is to be found outside the field of law or ritual. in fact the very reason
for which the ritual exists-the impression made upon the candidate.
It must be reco gnized that the proposed amendment would not
affect the second section of our fi rst degree. It wou Id not affect the
second section of our second degree. It would not affect the lecture of
the th ird degree. It wo uld not save what the proponents have capitalized
in their proposal. " PRECIOUS TIME," as to these substantial portions of our degree ceremonies.
The amendment would save time in the receiving of up to five candidates instead of one, just inside the door. Since the doors in most
Lodges are none too wide and the pillars are not spaced far apart, the
reception could be made in a column five deep, if the Stewards had, say,
eight assistants and the Senior Deacon had four good assistants. but
is the time saved worth it? A little later time could be saved if five declarations of faith were made at the same time . but is it worth it? F ive
candidates could be obligated at the altar if Lodges obtained wider
altars and placed five Bibles along the more extended altar. If time is the

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

criteria, it might be necessary to provide up to four assistant Senior
Wardens to get the candidates kneeling for they certainly could not
see what they were doing. We could continue pointing out how time
could be saved by five candidates at a time in the first section of both
the first and second degrees but it would not be a reduction to onefifth the present time required for we doubt that five candidates can be
moved, caused to kneel and so forth in the same time as one candidate.
Even if we would save a number of minutes in reciting the obligations
only once, that same question bobs up to plague us: Is it really worth it?
When we turn to the second section of the third degree we would
either have to station up to five men in the southwest or east or we
would have to have one blindfold and allow candidates two through
five to be merely observers of what is occurring.
Oh yes. my Brethren, it could be done, it is not impossible to perform, but that blasted question won't go away-Would it be worth it?
That question you will have to answer. Your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes can do no more than recommend that you vote
"no" on the proposed amendment.

WHEREAS. more Third Degree Masons would apply for the
higher degrees if the demonstration of the proficiency in the lecture of
the Third Degree were not a prerequisite of such application,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that the California Code be
amended as necessary to make it no longer compulsory for a Third Degree Mason to prove proficiency in the lecture of that degree before
applying for higher degrees or for membership in other Masonic affiliated bodies.
Respectfully submitted.
WALTER L. STEWART, S. W .. No. 248
RALPH V. BAIRD, M., No. 248
DoNALD R. ROBY, P .M .. No. 248 DONALD W. HICKS. P.M., No. 248
W. M. HosKJNS, P.M., No. 248 ESTLE ARGABRIGHT, P.M., No. 248
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and on Ritual.

300

The Committee on furisprudence:
Resolution No. 29 proposes to amend Section 525 C.M.C. so that
by inference it will permit the conferring of degrees on more than one
candidate at one time.
This resolution is not only contrary to the ritual established in this
Grand Lodge from its very inception but it is contrary to Section 554
C.M.C. which requires conformity to the ritual taught by the Grand
Lecturer and recognized by Grand Lodge.
It is contrary to Section 555 C.M.C. which has almost the force of
a Landmark that the Grand Lodge alone has power to authorize changes
in the ritual. but, and we quote, "for the purpose of having it remain
as it was handed down from time immemorial."
This resolution obviously is not for the permitted purpose and we
strongly urge a " no" vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

FORM OF APPLICATION FOR DEGREESPROFICIENCY

(30)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the proficiency in the lecture of the Third Degree,
being <eompulsory and prerequisite to receiving higher degrees or applying for membership in other branches of Masonry, tends to penalize
these affiliate bodies. and
WHEREAS. Masonry in general. particularly the higher degrees,
would benefit by receiving more applications for membership, and

301

The Committee on Ritual:
The Committee on Ritual. as it has expressed its position on numerous such proposals in regard to the elimination of the Third Degree
proficiency requirement on our application form, strongly urges a ''no"
vote. We concur in the position and recommendation of the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 30 proposes to amend that part of Section 525 of
the California Masonic Code by deleting a portion of question No. 15
which requires a pr;omise that he will pass a proficiency examination
in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Maste r Mason before applying for membership in other so-called affiliated organizations.
Your Committee feels that the promise that a newly raised Brother
pass a sa tisfactory examination in open Lodge. in the Candidate's Lecture of the Third Degree. is as much a part of his basic Blue Lodge
ritual or education as is the Candidate's Lecture in the First and Second
Degrees and is, therefore, an appropriate and inspiring dimax to his
three degrees of Masonry.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 30 was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
This resolution proposes to change and amend Section 527, Subdivision 15, of the California Masonic Code by deleting therefrom the
requirement that a Master Mason must show proficiency in the lecture of the third degree before applying for membership in other Masonic
affiliated bodies.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following resolution:

302

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

RESOLVED that Section 527, Subdivision 15. be amended so as to
read as follows:
Section 527, Subdivision 15. Do you promise that you will not
apply for or receive any degree or be initiated in any Lodge, Order
or organization, the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a
person be a Master Mason. within twelve months after you have
received the degree of Master Mason?
A ma jority voted a gainst the resolution.

FEES FOR DEGREES--SEN IOR DE MOLA YS
(31)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, most of the constituent Masonic Lodges in the California jurisdiction are losing membership at a fa ster rate than petitions
for the Degrees are received . and
WHEREAS. D eMolay members who have attained to legal age
are usually interested in becoming Masons and members of the Masonic
Lodge with which they have been associated, and
WHEREAS. a large percentage of these potential members are
lost to Masonry because of a prohibitive large initiation fee,
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that an initiation fee of $35.00
be accepted for all DeMolays in good standing who petition to receive
the Degrees of Freemasonry.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH V. BAIRD, M .. No. 248
WALTER L. STEWART, S. W .. No. 248
D oNALD R. ROBY, P.M .. No. 248 DONALD W . H ICKS. P.M., No. 248
WILL M. HosKINS, P.M .. No. 248 ESTLE ARGABRIGHT. P.M., No. 248
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy a nd G eneral Purposes.

The Committee. on P olicy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 31 proposes that a n initiation fee of $35.00 be accepted for all DeMolays in good standing who petition to receive the
Degrees of Freemasonry.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes tha t. due
to present economic conditions, the lowering of the fee should not be
legislated. That portion of Section 552 should remain as is.
Your Committee a lso points out that a DeMolay in good standing,
who might petition a Lodge, could be 21 years of age or might be 51
years of age.
Your Committee further believes that no economic distinction should
be made among applicants.
I move the adoption of Resolution No. 31, and your Committee recommends a "no" vote.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

303

The Committee on f urisprudence:
The Committee on Jurisprudence finds that Sections 354 and 552

C M .C. will require amendment in order to accomplish the purpose of
th.is resolution. Therefore, in lieu of the resolution as proposed by the
spansors. the Committee recommends the following:
"THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED that Section 354 C.M.C. be
amended by adding thereto the following:
'provided. however, that the fees charged for the three degrees to
senior DeMolays in good standing shall be the sum of thirty-five
dollars ( $35.00) .'
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that Section 552 C.M.C. be
amended as follows:
(a) By adding the following clause to the second sentence
thereof: "except in the case of senior DeMolays in good standing
for whom the fees for the three degrees shall be the sum of $35.00."
( b) By adding the following clause to the third sentence thereof: "or in the case of senior DeMolays as above provided ."
A majority voted against the resolution.

AFFILIATION- NOTICE TO LODGE WHERE
MEMBERSHIP IS HELD PRIOR TO
READING PETITION
(32)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
WHEREAS . our law now permits a member to apply for and be
elected to membership by affiliation without notice to his own Lodge. and
WHEREAS. the previous Lodge may have information on the member which they could and should make ava ilable for the guidance of the
electing Lodge. I propose an amendment to cure the situation by inserting after the first paragraph of subdivision "1st" of Section 557 C.M.C.
the following :
" The Secretary receiving the written request for dimit shall. before
reading the application in his Lodge, forward a copy to the Lodge
where membership is held."
Respectfully submitted.
HAROLD G. HAUPT, M .. No. 540
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. and on Policy and G eneral Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 32 provides that the Secretary of a Lodge. upon
receiving written request for a dimit shall, be fore reading the application
in his Lodge, forward a copy to the Lodge where membership is held.
The purpose of this resolution is to inform a Lodge of a member's
impending dimit.

304

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Under our present law, the Master assigns an investigating committee to investigate an application for affiliation. The Committee on
Policy and General Purposes feels that a proper investigation by that
committee would in effect accomplish the purpose of this resolution.
The Committee on furisprudence. to whom this resolution was also
ref erred, has authorized this Committee to report that the language in
this resolution will accomplish the purpose of the proponent.
I. therefore, move that this resolution be adopted. The Committee
on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "no" vote.
A majority voted against the resolution.

The adoption of this resolution will not only reduce the income o f
the Lodges but also result in an increase in the per capita tax.
Your Committee recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on f urisprudence: See report of Committee follo wing
Resolution No. 34.
A majority voted against the resolution.

LIFE MEMBERSHIP-FIFTY YEAR MEMBER
(33)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS. the Grand Lodges of several Masonic jurisdictions
other than California honor their veteran members by remitting their
dues in advance, and
WHEREAS. it is becoming increasingly difficult for older members to maintain paid up status in the face of inflation, and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California does not now relieve
its veterans of the requirement that they pay dues,
NOW. THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand
Lodge of California adopt the policy of issuing its 50 year members a
paid up membership.
Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT CHARLES HITCHEN,
DAVID w. GLEASON, P .M .•
P.M., No. 209
No. 209
EMBT N. BIDDLES, M .. No. 209
HENRY 0. DANE, P.M.,
No. 196
CHARLES 0. BLODGETT, S. W.,
No. 209
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that, as
stated in Annotation h under Section 577, a member should not be relieved of the duty to pay dues merely because a certain number of years
has been satisfied. The provisions relating to "10 year Masons and 75
year old Masons having dues remitted were intended for distinguished
service and to be applied only in those marginal cases where there may
be ability to pay but where a hardship still would be worked. Every
member should consider it a high privilege to help bear the costs of his
own Lodge and of the Grand Lodge.

305

LIFE MEMBERSHIP-FIFTY YEAR MEMBER
(34)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS, there are many fifty year members of this jurisdiction
unable to pay dues because of fixed income, age, increased cost of living,
ill health, unable to attend Lodge and other hards hips, and
WHEREAS, these brethren who have fifty year membership in
this jurisdiction and have paid their dues regularly for this time, and
WHEREAS, they deserve this recognition, and be free of dues
but to donate to the Homes Endowment Fund if they so desire instead,
and
WHEREAS. this is a practice in some of the other jurisdictions to
relinquish dues to fifty year members, with no cost to the Lodge or
Grand Lodge, thus giving notice that when a member receives this commendation it creates a deep satisfaction to others to obtain this goal. and
WHEREAS, in many cases these monies were donated much earlier, to pay off mortgages, buy necessities, etc .. when monies were more
plentiful, and instead of taking a desired Life Membership, and
WHEREAS, "the remission of dues to a fifty year member would
add an incentive and avoid disappointment to our other Brethren attaining fifty years of Masonry and approve their image in the community in which he lives, and
WHEREAS. the feeling of the brother who reached this achievement is in his heart gratified that he has obtained this recognition and
just reward , and
WHEREAS, his feeling and past membership has been most gratifying.
NOW BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED that the necessary
deletions, additions and amendments be made to the appropriate sections of the California Masonic Code to provide for automatic remission
of said dues in advance to all Master Masons under this jurisdiction
who have received or who are entitled to receive a fifty year button
from the Grand Lodge of California.
Respectfully submitted,
HoNALD C. FRANDSEN, P.M .. No. "151
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and G eneral Purposes.

306

307

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes offers the same
reasons as on Resolution No. 33 against Resolution No. 34.
Your Committee recommends a "no" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Committee on Jurisprudence. to which Resolutions Nos. 33
and 34 were referred, reports as follows:
Each of these resolutions proposes that flfty ( 50) year members
no longer be required to pay dues.
One proposal puts it in terms of a "paid up membership." The other
proposes an "automatic remission of said dues."
The Committee believes that the intention of each resolution would
be carried out by the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that Section 573 C.M.C. be amended by adding to
it a new paragraph as follows:
"Members of a Lodge who have been members in good standing of a recognized Lodge for fifty years shall be life members of
the Lodge to which they then belong or to any other Lodge to which
they shall thereafter belong in the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge."
IT IS FURTHER RESOLVED, that annotation 577h should be
and it is hereby deleted.
The Committee moves the adoption of the resolution.
A majority voted against the resolution.

Respectfully submitted,
JORGEN MANDRUP, S.W.,
MILTON D. MORRIS, M.,
No. 422
No. 605
HERBERT J. BARNARD, M.,
WALTER c. HUTTON, M.,
No. 492
No. 422
EDWARD W. REID, M., No. 382
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes. and on Ritual.
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

FUNERAL SER VICE
(35)
To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Sections 605 and 605 E of the California Masonic
Code provide that any Mason may read the funeral or burial service,
and
WHEREAS, satisfactory delivery of the service when conferred
from memory is not foolproof, and
WHEREAS, the delivery of said ceremony should not be the responsibility of an individual given from memory. and
WHEREAS. the contributing to a favorable service could be halted
by emotional feeling, and
WHEREAS, the families of our Brethren are entitled to the best
possible service,
THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that the Master is responsible for. that at least two ( 2) qualilied Master M asons of his Lodge can
deliver the service.
They must memorize the parts necessary and verify to their Inspector that they are able to read the rema inder in a satisfactory manner, one
of the two to qualify may be the Master if the Inspector so desires.

PUBLICITY-YEAR ROUND
PUBLIC SCHOOLS SUPPORT
(36)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. the Public Schools of the State of California, and
Public Schools Week in particular, are among the prime concerns of
California Freemasons , and
WHEREAS, there is an apparent lack of understanding by the
public of the operation, administration, goals and financing of the Public
Schools, and
WHEREAS. Freemasonry in California has ever been a strong
supporter of our Public School System,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED. that the Grand
Lodge Committee. on Public Schools be charged with the responsibility
of maintaining a continuous or year around program for dissemination
of information pertinent to the Public Schools. and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Grand Lodge Committee on Public Schools be allotted sufficient space in each issue of the
California Freemason to disseminate this information.
Respectfully submitted,
CHARLES H. WELSH, P .M.,
FRED H. HORWOOD, P.M.,
No. 243
No. 243
ROBERT
J. MATHEISON , M.,
HENRY J. KEIM , P.M., No. 243
No.
243
PERRY C. SMITH, P.M .. No. 243
w. TEUBERT SMITH, P.M.,
JoHN C. SPEIGHT, J. W., No. 243
No. 243
ROBERT E. GILBERT, P.M.,
No. 243
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, and on Policy and General Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes indicated no policy
statement had been prepared as development of public schools programs
was the responsibility of the Committee on Public Schools.

308

PROCEED INGS OP THE

The Committee on furisprudence moved adoptio n of the resolution
without recommendation.
Adopte d.

TRIAL MANU AL
(37)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A . M . of California:
WHER EAS. the C.M.C. contain s many sections regardin g the
Masoni c trial of members of Lodges. of Master s of Lodges. of Lodges,
and other related matters, and
WHER EAS, in general , Masters of Lodges are inexperienced in
the conduct of Masoni c trials, and
WHER EAS , supplem entary instruct ions have been prepare d for
use in determi ning what steps should be taken in the prepara tions for
a Masoni c trial. which instruct ions are void of any detailed advice to
trial masters and secretar ies in the actual conduc t of such trials, and
WHER EAS. the forms related to the conduct of Masoni c trials
were recently revised by the Grand Lodge; ( 1962) . and
WHER EAS. the Grand Lodge in Annual Communication in 1961.
over the objections of both the Policy and Genera l Purpose s Committee
and Commi ttee on Grievan ces, adopted Resolution 29 calling for a trial
manual . which mandat e by the members of the Grand Lodge has not
been complied with,
NOW, THERE FORE. BE IT RESOL VED that the Grand Lodge
of Californ ia, with the advice of the Commi ttee on Grievan ces, publish
a complete and detailed trial manual for use by trial masters and trial
secretar ies containing step by step instructions for the prepara tion and
conduct ing of Masoni c trials and re-trials ; swearin g of witnesses; conduct of examina tion and cross examina tion of witness es; and other basic
matters of Masoni c law. Specific exampl es of the various kinds of trials
or re~trials should be include d, with appropr iate referenc es to sections
of the C.M.C. Instruct ions on the prepara tion and filing of charges and
specifications should be include d, as well as any other manner of instructio n and advice that may be of assistan ce to those conduct ing or
otherwi se involved in the trial.
Respect fully submitt ed,
FREDER ICK BOLTE, P.M., No. 21
Referre d to Commi ttees on Jurispru dence, on Policy and General
Purpose s, and on Finance .
The above resolution was withdra wn by its propone nt.

(38)
A resolution designa ted as No. 38 was withdra wn by its propone nt
after distribu tion to the constitu ent Lodges but prior to the opening
of Grand Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

309

MASO NIC HOM E-AG ED-C OVIN A
(39)
To the Most Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHER EAS. it becomes more necessa ry to establis h a Masoni c
Home for our aging Brethre n in the souther n section of California, it is
herewit h propose d that the facilities at our Childre n's Home in Covina.
Cal.. be enlarge d, and the addition al buildings be set aside to be used
as a home for Masons and their wives, and
BE IT FURTH ER PROPO SED that the proceed s from the sale
of our Masoni c clubhou ses at our State College s be applied to the
building of such home, and
BE IT ALSO PROPO SED that conside ration be given to the possibility of permitting eligible Brethre n to pay all or part of the costs
as residen ts of this home.
Respect fully submitted,
ROBERT AoRAIN , P.M .• No. 726
The above resolution was ruled out of order by the Grand Master.

SPECI AL FINAN CE STUD Y REPO RT, RULES AND
REGU LA TIO NS AND PROPO SED LEGIS LATIO NMAILE D JULY 15, 1969
(40)
To the. Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

The following amendm ents to the Californ ia Masoni c Code are
propose d by the Special Finance Study Commi ttee to effect its recommendat ions which were adopted in principle at the 1968 Annual Communication ( 1968 Proceed ings. pp. 59, 231 ) .
(a) To effect the recommendations as to Lodge expendi tures :
( 1 ) Amend that portion of C.M .C., sec. 409, contain ed within the
parenth eses. to read as follows :
" (except that where funds are donated and accepte d in trust for
any proper specific purpose , they may be used for it; and except
that gifts or bequest s to a Lodge which are not limited to specific
purpose s may be used by the Lodge for any purpose permitte d by
the Commi ttee on Lodge Financi ng and approve d by the Grand
Master ) ."
(2) Add to C.M.C., sec. 412, the following paragra ph :
"The following expend itures, among others, shall be deemed to be
for the promotion of fraterna l intercourse; contribu tions to the ex~
pense of a district associat ion breakfa st or luncheo n at Grand
Lodge; and also contribu tions to M asonically affiliated youth org a n~
izations ."

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

( b) To effect the recommendations as to Grand Lodge expenditures,
the following:
( 1) Amend the last paragraph of C.M.C., sec. 161. to read as
follows:
"Each Inspector shall be entitled to reimbursement by Grand Lodge
for his necessary expenses incurred in the performance of his official
duties, including attendance at the Annual Communication, upon
presentation of an itemized claim; but no Lodge or district officers'
association shall pay or reimburse the expenses of an Inspector."

of three or more members whose duty it sha ll be to audit and approve payment of expenses and claims for the reimbursement of
expenses of Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters, Inspectors,
Committeemen and members of Constiutional Boards, in accordance
with rules and regulations approved by the Grand Master or
adopted by Grand Lodge; which shall provide that disallowance or
modiAcation of any claim may be reviewed, if requested by the member presenting the claim or by the Audit Committee, by the Grand
Master or by an elective Grand Lodge Officer designated by him;
the decision on such review to be final; provided, however. that the
expenses of the Grand M aster shall not be subject to approval by
said Committee, nor be circumscribed by any subordinate officer or
any committee."
( B) Repeal sec. 248 and 266 of the C.M.C.
Respectfully submitted,
HERBERT A. HUEBNER, P.M., No. 445
JonN A. StCKENBERGER, P.M.,
WtLLIAM H. PRICE, P.M.,
No. 392
No. 259
ELBERT w. DAVIS, P.M.,
ARTHUR LINSK, P.M., No. 529
No. 571
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

310

(2) Amend C.M.C.. sec. 146, subd. 3. to read as follows:
"3rd. To make transfers of funds under such regulations as may
be provided by Grand Lodge."
(3) Amend C.M.C .. sec. 150, subd. 17th, by striking the final clause
"which shall be passed upon by the professional auditors as provided
in section 194," and by inserting in lieu thereof the following: "which
shall be approved by the Audit Committee, or as may be otherwise provided in this Code."
( 4) Repeal sec. 175 of the C.M.C.
( 5) Amend C.M.C., sec. 176, to read as follows:
"Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors, Committeemen and members
of Constitutional Boards shall receive reimbursement for their necessary expenses in performance of their duties as provided in rules
and regulations approved by the Grand Master or adopted by
Grand Lodge; the Past Grand M asters not entitled to reimbursement as Committeemen or members of Constitutional Boards shall
receive reimbursement for their necessary expenditures for transportation to and from each Annual Communication of the Grand
Lodge, in the same manner as ordered for officers or representatives
of Lodges; but no one shall receive payment in more than one capacity; and further, each Inspector shall produce the certificate of the
Grand Lecturer that the Inspector has attended the Lodge of Instruction held by the Grand Lecturer immediately prior to the Annual Communication."
( 6) Add to C.M .C., sec. 193, the following paragraph:
"The budget prepared by the Committee on Finance shall include
any supplementary appropriations made by the Grand Master, and
shall estimate and make provision for the reimbursement of the expenses of Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters, Inspectors,
Committeemen and members of Constitutional Boards, in accordance with the rules and regulations approved by the Grand Master
or adopted by Grand Lodge."
( 7) Add to the C.M.C. a new sec. 207 to read as follows:
"The Grand Master shall appoint an Audit Committee consisting

311

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered Resolution No.
40 and approves the same as to form with the exception of proposal
(b) (3) as to which we recommend the following, which has been approved by the proponents of the resolution:
( 3) Amend C.M.C. Section 150, subdivision 17th, by striking the
final clause, "which shall be passed upon by the professional auditors
as provided in Section 194," and by inserting in lieu thereof the following: "but in the presentation of claims for reimbursement of expenses.
approval of such claims must be given by the Audit Committee prior
to payment thereof."
Adopted as amended, 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
In accordance with the requirement of our Code, an audit of the
finances of Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of California and the
California Masonic Temple, for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1969,
was completed. Copies of the audits, including that for the California
Masonic Foundation, have been reviewed by this Committee.
Our accounts are audited by a firm of Certifiied Public Accountants
of national and international standing. These audits follow procedures

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

consistent with practices approved by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The details are at all times on hand in the
Grand Lodge office and are available for inspection by any member of
Grand Lodge.
In the audit report for Grand Lodge, specifically the Exhibit titled
"Statement of Cash Revenues and Expenses." there is indicated an
evcess of revenue amounting to $124.179.00. comprised of a $38,477.00
gain realized on the sale of securities and a net revenue gain of $85,702.00
resulting from Grand Lodge operations.
Our net revenue gain is $27,000.00 less than net revenue gain for
the year previous. Total cash revenue for the past fiscal year dropped
by approximately $45,000.00 and most of this. or $32,000.00, re~ulted
from a lower per capita base. There was a decrease of 12 cents. m the
per capita assessment as between 1968 and 1969 but. of more importance, a decline in the assessable membership from 238,302 to 236.142
as of June 30, 1968.
Another major reduction in income this past year was caused by
the transfer of the expenses of the Endowment Board from the Masonic
Homes to Grand Lodge. This policy change accounted for a $12.000.00
decrease in revenue.
The cost to operate Grand Lodge last year showed a decrease of approximately $18,000.00 from the previous year, spread throughout the
Administrative and General Expense categories and in the Appropriations. As to Appropriations. it will be noted that practically all Committees, twenty-two out of a total of twenty-six. incurred expense~ this
past year well within their budgeted amounts; only four committees
exceeded their budgets by less than $1,300.00 total.
Necessary supplemental appropriations covering items for which
budgets had not been provided, or were insufficient, totaled $30,083.00.
Included in this $30,083.00 are two major items- the unanticipated carrying cost of the Clubhouse at Los Angeles amounting to $9.575.00 in
excess of budget. and the absorption by Grand Lodge of the Endowment Board expenses and the Wednesday trip to our Decoto Home
totalling $12,890.00, an amount not budgeted by the Masonic Homes
Trustees. All supplemental items were duly approved by the Grand
Master and we recommend your approval of his action.

the past. we express our sincere appreciation of the splendid service
which our Grand Treasurer continues to render so unselfishly to this
Grand Lodge.

312

GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

The Report of the Grand Treasurer was referred to and reviewed
by this Committee. We find all reported items to be in accord with the
audit reports and we recommend your approval.
The report reflects the diligence and the competence of our Gran~
Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, in his supervision of the finances and capital funds of Grand Lodge and its agencies. As has been said so often in

313

COMMENTS RELATIVE TO PROPOSED BUDGET

New procedures whereby certain expenses of Grand Lodge officers
and committeemen are reimbursable have created a difficult task for all
concerned. Obviously a major expense has to do with attendance at the
Annual Communication. The provision for expense reimbursement was
estimated last October at 35 cents per capita and time did not allow for
specific allocation to committees and other categories. Our budget for
the ensuing year includes the best estimate by your officers and Committee Chairman of necessary and reasonable items of expense, and the
allocation of amounts has been made to the respective categories. It
now appears that the total cost of this provision for expense reimbursement amounts to approximately 50 cents per capita.
As a result of a survey made by the Grand Lodge Committee on
Insurance, new policies were written effective July 1, 1969. covering
our insurance needs. The three year premium, amounting to $135.000.00 for Grand Lodge and its agencies, will need to be paid in one
sum. In line with past pradice, one-third of the Grand Lodge premium
is being included in this year's budget and the .r emainder will be absorbed in the budgets for the following two years.
We call attention of this Grand Lodge to items designated as compensation included m the California Masonic Code. particularly the
payments being made to the Grand Lecturer, Organist. Grand Tiler
and possibly others. We believe there is some question regarding the
status of these items as distinguished between the area of compensation
or salary with its related accountability requirements and the area of
reimbursable expenses. We urge that the committee referred to in the
Grand Master's Recommendation No. 4 promptly direct its attention
to this matter.
Reports of the Board of Trustees and Superintendents of the Masonic
Homes were reviewed with considerable interest. These reports indicate continuing. commendable progress in caring for our unfortunate
Brethren and their families as. for example, the lifting of quota restrictions based on size of Lodges. the modification of our building facilities
to enable the admission of non ~ambulatory persons, etc.
We are pleased to note that. notwithstanding increasing inflationary
costs and the above-mentioned improvements. the Homes have operated
this past year well within their income. Accordingly. The Board of Trustees has reduced the request for contributions by Lodges to an amount
of $1.00 per member. a 15 cent reduction in per capita requirements for
that purpose, and we heartily concur with this recommendation.

314

GRA N D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your Committee on Finance expresses its appreciation to the Grand
Lodge Officers and Committee Chairmen for their help and cooperation
in the preparation of the proposed budget. We recognize the extra efforts
put forth by each one involved.
Our special thanks are extended to the Grand Secretary and Assista nt Grand Secretary who have faithfully attended our meetings and
provided the support materials needed by our Committee. We express
our sincere appreciation to them and to their entire staff for their help
and assistance.
Such matters in the Grand Master's Message and in the several
resolutions and reports which required funds have been provided for
in the following proposed budget:

Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer Compensation ......................................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense........................... .
Veteran Buttons ........... .............................................. ........ .
Insura nce :
Workmen's Compensation-Lodges ......................... .
Grand Lodge ................
Agencies ··········----··--·-··
Public Liability and Extended Coverage ....................
Miscellaneous ---···----················································-·····

315

600.00
3,700.00
57,100.00
6.000.00
12.000.00
1,800.00
1,800.00
30,000.00
4,000.00

TOTAL -----·-················---······························--·--·----$275,100.00
BUDGET-1969-1970
A DMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Sala ries ................................................................................ $ 95,000.00
Gra nd Lodge Office-Tempie Rent................................. . 24.000.00
5.500.00
Audit Fee and Related Expense........................................
Grand Treasurer ................................................................
250.00
7,000.00
Postage and Express......................................................... .
5.000.00
Telephone and Telegraph ...................................... ............
7.000.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ......................
500.00
Investment Counsel ............................................................
8.000.00
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Employees ..... .
2,000.00
Medical Plan- Grand Lodge Employees ......................... .
3.500.00
Outside Clerical Services ....................................................
1,000.00
Personal Property Taxes ....................................................
6.000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous ............................................... .
1.000.00
M aintenance and Repairs-Office Furnishings ............... .
TOTAL ·························-----·-·--------······· ············-·········-·$165, 750.00
GEN ERAL EXPENS E

Annual Communication ...................................................... $ 22.500.00
5.000.00
Conferences ........................................................................
4,000.00
Cornerstone Ceremonies ....................................................
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ............................................ 15.000.00
1,000.00
Grand Orga nist and Grand Tiler Compensation ..............
Grand Master's Travel. Secretarial and Sundry .............. 19.000.00
7.000.00
Investment Counsel ............................................................
3.500.00
Grand Lodge Regalia ...........................................:··············
Representative's Mileage .................................................... 42.000.00
Printing ·························-------····------······································ 35.000.00
4.100.00
Retirement Pay ................................................................... .

APPROPRI ATIONS

Activi ties Committee ..........................................................$ 8.500.00
Boa rd of Control. .................................................................
3.000.00
Jurisprudence Committee ....................................................
1.500.00
Policy and General Purposes Committee ..........................
1.750.00
600.00
Grievances Committee --········-------·······································
500.00
Charters Committee --····--··----··············································
Columbia Temple (Net of Rentals) ..................................
1,000.00
Commercialism Committee ................................................
250.00
Credentials Committee ......................................................
1,000 .00
Pay of Members Committee............................................... .
1.000.00
C onstitution Observance Committee ................................. .
750.00
400.00
Correspondence Committee ............................................... .
350.00
By-Laws Committee ············--···--·-··························-············
200.00
Necrology Committee ··································· ···················---200.00
Retirement Committee ··----·- ·-··--·-········································
200.00
Ins urance Committee ·····--···············································---1.500.00
Youth Orders ······--------·----------·-----·-················-····················
18,500.00
Endowment Board ························-·----······························-Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ..............................
200.00
Grand Master's Relief F und ............................................. .
2,500.00
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Agencies ......... .
4.400.00
Medical Plan-Grand Lodge Agencies........................... .
1,000.00
His tory Committee .......................................... ........ ............
500.00
600.00
Inves tment C ommittee -··--···-----···································---···-·
Lodge Financing Committee ............................................. .
2,000.00
1,750.00
M asonic Cemeteries Committee......................................... .
Public Schools Committee ................................................... .
3,500.00
7,500.00
Masonic Information and Responsibility Committee ....... .
1.500.00
Finance Committee··-·-·········--···-··········································
Public Information Committee ............................................
1,500.00

3 17

GRA ND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

316

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Library Committee ·······························-····-·························
University Clubhouse-Los Angeles..................................
California Masonic Foundation ..........................................
Code Commission ·····-····-·--····························-··--··-·········-····
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles (Net of Rentals) ....... .
Special Hawaiian Advisory Committee ............................. .
Special Committee on C.M.C............................................ .
Special Committee-Study of Historical Sites ···--·--······-···
Special Committee- Study of Grand Lodge Funds ......... .
Special Committee-Study of Administrative
Operations ····-···-·-·--·······-··-····-······-···········-·······-·············
Audit Committee ·-········-····-·-···--·········-~·-··········--·······-········-

2,600.()()
15,300.00
10.000.00
500.00
750.00
300.00
2,250.00
500.00
250.00
2.500.00
2,000.00

TOT AL ........................................................................ $105.100.00
RECA Pl TULA TION

Administrative and Office.................................................... $165,750.00
General Expense·················-····················· ·······················-··- 275,100.00
Appropriations .................................................................... 105,100.00
GRAND TOTAL ........... ........................................... $545,950.00
ESTIMATED INCOME

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc. .......................... $482,950.00
Income from Investments.................................................... 48,000.00
Payment from Masonic Homes re Secretarial
and Other Services........................................................ 24,000.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous Income....................................
6,000.00
TOTAL ESTIMATED INCOME ............................ $560,950.00
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND
BUDGETED ITEMS ·································-··--···· 545,950.00
ESTIMATED RECEIPTS OVE R
EXPENDITURES ................................................$ 15,000.00
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Columbia Temple ······-·····--·-··-······-······································

650.00

TOTAL ················-·········-·-···········································$

650.00

ESTIMATED RECEIPTS OVER
EXP ENDITURES AFTER CA PIT AL
ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS .. . .... $ 14,350.00
C ALIFORNIA F RE EMASON

Estimated Income .................................................................. 83,700.00
Estimated Expenses ...........·························-···-····················· 83.500.00
Esti mated Receipts Over Disbursements .... ...... ...... .. $
200.00
PER CAPITA
Masonic Homes ..................................................................$
G rand Lodge Constitutional ..............................................
Grand Lodge Additional ................... .. ........... ·········-·········California Freemason-·························-·······························
TOTAL ...................................................................... $

1.00
.50
1.50
.35
3.35

BUDGET-ONE QUARTER
JULY I, 1970, THROU GH SEPTEMBER 30, 1970
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ····-··························-··-····-····································----$ 30,000.00
Grand Lodge Office-Temple Rent....................................
6,000.00
~udit ···········-·····························································--········· 5,000.00
P rand Treasurer ................................................................
100.00
ostage and Express............................................................
1,800.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..................................................
1,300.00
Social Security ~nd Unemployment Taxes................... ...
1,700.00
Retirement Pension Plan- Grand Lodge Employees.. ..
2,000.00
Medical Plan-Grand Lodge Employees.... ........ ..............
500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous...... ........... .... ..........................
1,800.00
TOT AL ....................... ·················. .. ....... .. .. .. ...... ...... $ 50,200.00
GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication ··············-···-·· ·································
Conferences ·····-··-··························-·····················-··············
Cornerstone Ceremonies ....................................................
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel... .......................................... .
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler....................................... .
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial and Sundry ... ...........

~~~!~:;1e~~-p·~·;·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer C ompensation ......................................
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors'
Conference and Travel Expense...... ......................
Veteran Buttons ·············································-···-········--

17,500.00
1,300.00
1.000.00
3,800.00
200.00
4,800.00
8,500.00
1,000.00
150.00
900.00
14,000.00
1,500.00

318

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Insurance:
Workmen's Compensation-Lodges ............................
Grand Lodge .......... ......
Agencies ......................
Public Liability and Extended Coverage ..........................
Miscellaneous ......................................................................

12,000.00
1,800.00
1,800.00
30.000.00
4,000.00

TOTAL ......................................... ...............................$104,200.00
APPROPRIATIONS
Activities Committee ..........................................................$
Board of Control. .............................................................. .. .
Jurisprudence Committee ................................................... .
Charters Committee ........................................................... .
Policy and General Purposes Committee ......................... .
Columbia Temple ............................. ........ .......................... .
Grievances Committee ........ ............................................. .
Commercialism Committee .................................... ............. .
Credentials Committee ............................................. .......... .
Constitution Observance Committee....... ....................... .. ..
Pay of Members Committee. ... ........................................ .
Correspondence Committee ............................................... .
By~Laws Committee ........................................................... .
Youth Activities Committee ................................................
N ecrology Committee ........................................................
Endowment Board ............................................................. .
Retirement Committee ....................................................... .
Grand Master's Relief Fund ............................................. .
Insurance Committee ......................................................... .
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Agencies ......... .
R ecognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ............................. .
Medical P lan-Grand Lodge Agencies ............................. .
History Committee ................. ............................................ .
Investment Committee .................. ......................................
Lodge Financing Committee............................ ..................
M asonic Cemeteries Committee..........................................
Public Schools Committee ..................................................
M asonic Information and Repsonsibility Committee ....... .
Finance Committee ............................................................. .
Public Information Committee ............................................
Library Committee ..............................................................
University Clubhouse-Los Angeles ..................................
California Masonic Foundation ......................................... .
Code Commission ................................................................
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles......................................

2,000.00
750.00
375.00
125.00
475.00
250.00
150.00
70.00
250.00
190.00
250.00
100.00
90.00
375.00
50.00
4,435.00
50.00
625.00
50.00
1.100.00
50.00
250.00
125.00
150.00
500.00
440.00
875.00
1.875.00
375.00
375.00
650.00
3,800.00
2,500.00
125.00
190.00

Special Hawaiian Advisory Committee ........................... ...
Special Committee on C.M.C. ........................... ................
Special Committee-Study of His torical Sites ..................
Special Committee-Study of Grand Lodge Funds ......... .
Special Committee-Study of Administrative Operations
Audit Committee ............ ..................... .............................. .

319
75.00
560.00
125.00
75.00
625.00
500.00

TOTAL ..................................................................... ...$ 26,000.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office . .................................................. $ 50,200.00
G eneral Expense ................................ ... ............................ 104.200.00
Appropria tions ................................... ................................. 26,000.00
GRAND TOTAL ........................................................ $180,400.00
To continue the service of Grand Lodge to its members. Lodges and
M asonry as a whole. we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That for the purpose of paying the expenses
of Grand Lodge. a per capita of $3.35 be levied for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1970, divided as follows:
Masonic Homes ........................................................................$1.00
Grand Lodge Constitutional .................................................... .50
Grand Lodge Additional .......................................................... 1.50
California Freemason .............................................................. .35
TOT Al PER CAPITA ....................................... ............. $3.35
Respectfully submitted,
JoH N A. S1cKENBERGER, Chairman
ANTHONY J. OLIVER
JOHN c. WIESNER
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
N. ROBERT GORRELL
U NO E. NORDEEN
ORAN 0. BRIDGES
Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was
separately adopted.
The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.
At 4:30 P .M . Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A .M. Friday.

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE

Grand Sword Bearer, John J. Dunn, Lincoln Lodge No. 470.
Grand Bible Bearer, Adrian C. Twinem, Mineral King Lodge No.
720.
Senior Grand Deacon, Virl Bennehoff, California Lodge No. 1.
Junior Grand Deacon, Howard M . McKinley, California Lodge
No.1.
Senior Grand Steward, Jerome B. Rosen, Ionic Lodge No. 520.
Junior Grand Steward, Homer A. Cundiff. Pearl Harbor Lodge
No. 598.
Grand Pursuivant, Thora] E. Gilland, Fullerton Lodge No. 339.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1
Grand Tiler, Burton 0. Young, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Announcement was made of the following appointments by the
Grand Master-elect:
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of C alifornia, the appointment
of Past Grand Master Guy B. Mize and Ralph H . Head to succeed
Past Grand Master Alfred F. Breslauer and Edward J. Blickfeldt,
terms expired: and, in accordance with legislation adopted at this Communication, the appointment of Horace H . Mitchell, term expiring 1970;
retiring Grand Master Robert A. Crigler, term expiring 1971, and
Alfred W . Odle, term expiring 1972.
··
On February 14, 1969, Grand Master Crigler replaced all appointtive Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple and, in accordance with legislation adopted at this Communication, the following appointments were made with terms expiring as indicated:
Orro ROHWER · ····-·-----·· .. ····-····-···-··1970........................ EvERErr C. Ross
SAMUEL I. JACOBS ............................ 1971 ............................ JAMES CRAVEN
IRA
COBURN .............................. 1972 .................... DEWALD M. BAUM

Friday, October 17, 1969
At 9:30 a.m. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master pr~
siding. This session was raised by Worshipful John G . Martinez, Master of Wilmington Lodge No. 198. The invocation was delivered by
Worshipful William H . Price, Assistant Grand Lecturer. The minutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday, October 16, were
read and approved as amended.

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the sections
of the Constitution applying thereto.
The R. W . Ches ter R. MacPhee, Golden West Lodge No. 455, was
elected Grand Master.
The R. W . Herbert A. Huebner, Wilshire Lodge No. 445, was
elected D eputy Grand Master.
The R. W . Lester S. McElwain, Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403, was
elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W . William H . Price, Evergreen Lodge No. 259, was elected
Junior Grand Warden.
The V . W . Paul A. Pflueger, Amity-Seal Rock Lodge No. 370,
was reelected Grand Treasurer.
The M. W . Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth
Lodge No. 560, was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V . W. Harold N. Richards, Washington Lodge No. 20, was
reelected Grand Lecturer.
At the request of the Grand Master-elect, Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer announced the names of the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. W. H . D. Hornaday, Frank S. Land Lodge
No. 819.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Bertram C. vonKonsky, King Solomon's
Seaport Lodge No. 260; Frank P . Lemen, Three Pillars Lodge No. 613;
Ulysses G . Patropulos, King Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260;
Wallace H . Fiske, East Belt Lodge No. 391; Burton Meyer, Jr., Golden
State Lodge No. 358; H. Douglas Lemons, Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699.
Grand Orator, Donald R. Fretz, Yosemite Lodge No. 99.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Arthur Linsk, Loyalty Lodge No. 529.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Diablo
Lodge No. 448.
Grand Marshal. Robert D. Lintner, Mission Lodge No. 169.
Grand Standard Bearer, Richard G. Quiroz, Maya Lodge No. 793.

321

w.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master, acted as
Master of Ceremonies and the officers, elected and appointed , were
installed by the retiring Grand Master in accordance with the Ritual.
The Grand Master's lapel pin was trans ferred from the retiring
to the incumbent Grand Master and the other chair officers exchanged
the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand Master Pin and Certificate by Very Worshipful Elbert W . Davis, Past
Grand Lecturer. He was then invested with the apron of his new desig~
nation by Most Worshipful Eugene S. Hopp, Past Grand Master.

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

On behalf of the members of Grand Lodge. Worshipful John A.
Sickenberger presented a gift to the Junior P ast Grand Master for his
wife. Dena. Most Worshipful Robert A. Crigler expressed his appreciation for this thoughtful gift.
The newly installed Grand Master, Most W orshipful Chester R.
M acPhee, introduced the Brethren of his Lodge in attendance upon
completion of the installation ceremony. He then expressed his humble
thanks for the high honor accorded him in his election as Grand Master
and stressed his in terest in developing a program of information and
responsibility for all the members of the Fraternity.
At 12 : 50 p.m .. all business being completed . Grand Lodge closed
in due form .

SPECIAL
Grand Master

Grand Secretary

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

323

SPE CIA L APP END IX

CON TEN TS
Pap

·-·····--······· ·-·-···-··········· 324
Gran d Lodg e Audil-------····--·····-·-········-··········--··
·-············---···-·········--····· 334
State ment of Annu al Returns, 1969.................
................................... 336
Maso nic Hom es Audi t.......................................
................................ 387
Mem orial Tem ple AudJt ........................................
................................ . 392
Calif ornia Maso nic Foun datio n Audit...............
Stati stica l: ·

.......................... 397
Resi dents of Unio n City........................................
.......................... 406
Child ren at Covi na Home...... ................................
.......................... '408
Cont ribut ions to Special Reserves ........................

324

325

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE AUDITS

!t':

•.

EXHIBIT 1
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
OP FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OP CALIFORNIA

ARTHUR ANDERSEN &. Co,
SAN FR.uic1sco, CALtl'OJlNIA

STATEMENT OF ASSETS , LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968

of Free and Accepted Mas ons
or the State of California:
We have examined the statement of as sets, liebilitiee and
fun d balance or The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State Of California (an·unincorporated fraternal
oreanization) as of June JO, 1969, and the related statement of cash
revenues and expenses for the year then ended and the supplementary
stat'ements (Schedules l to 6).

Our examination was made in accordance

CASH
INVESTMENTS, at cost ( Schedule 1):
Bonds (approxima~e quoted market $545 1 000
in 1969 and $52J,669 in 1968)
Convertibl e preferred stocks {approximate
quote d market $J4,500 in 1969 and
$62, 200 in 1968)
Common stocks (approx imate quoted market
$)58,000 in 1969 and $374,929 in 1968 )
Total investme nts
FURN ITURE AND EQUIPMENT, at c os t ( Note 2 )

a~ countin g

575,629

' HS, 30 1

J7,3l7

61, )ll

JlJ I 328

·-·=~:!~~~
··---··--$ 926,274 $ 913,454
-------··- ·--------$

73 ,460

OTHER ASSETS

...........
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

were examined and reported on by other public accountants.

CONTRIBUTIONS RECE IVED FR OM I NI TIATES PAYABLE
TO THE GEORG E WASHINGTON MASONIC NATI ONAL
MEMORIAL ASSOC IATION

$

6,922

······~···

$

J,590

5, 041

4, 392

In our opinion, the ac companyin g finan cial statements

$

0 ,6 31

---------- --------·-

present fairly the assets, liabilities and fund balance of The Most
FUND BALANCE

California as of June JO, 1969, and the cash revenues and expenses

BALANCE, BEGINNING OF YEAR

for the year then ended, and the supplementary statements present

ADD - Ex cess or revenues for the year
( Exhibit II)

fairly the information set forth therein, on a basis cons istent

BALAN CE, END OF YEAR

$1,177,127

$1, 044, )19

124,179

132,808

.... .......

..........

-------·····------$1,301,306 $1,1 77 ,127
----------·--------U, Jl2 , 620 $1,185,758

The ac companying notes to fi n ancial statement s
are an integral part of this statement .
September 24, 1969

59,741

LIA!l!L ITIES

statements for 1968, which are presented for comparative purposes,

with that of the preceding year.

67,433

1,461
1,8'1
.. ·- ................ --------$1,312,620 $1,185,7 58

The f i n ancial

Worshipful Grand Jodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of

$

30,445

records and s uch other auditing proce•

d ures as we considered necessary in the circumstances,

$

PREPAID INSURANCE

with aenerally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included
such tests of the

1968

1969

To The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge

326

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

327

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ltXHIBIT II

IH! MOST WORSHIP10L CRAND LODOll

SCHEDULE l
Page 1

01 FR!E AMD ACCEPT!D MASONS ~F !FE STAT! 01 CALIFORNlA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE

STAT!lllNT OP CASH REV!MU!S AND !tr1NSES

OF FREE AND ACCEPTE D MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

F OR TH! YURS IN D!D JUNE 30. 1969 !N2 19~8

'

1969

196!

999 ,879

'1,061,~26

INVESTMENTS
JUNE JO I

( 50 2 ,34))
(4~,6'1!
(8J,406
( ',041

(48 0,89 4!
()9' 681
(82,6~0

1969

___ i:!~?: -·------- ....

!.:~~!~~:

Fee• tor ch1rtera and 41spen1&tions
.lle\renue Ct"OJ:i inve1t111.ent••
.01T1dend1 on 1tock1

--------•

140

t
--------..
•
23'
424,9H

•

Intel"'e1t on bond•
Intereet on b4lull: account•

l8,2J9
21,955

-----~!~~=

Rei:mburee••nt rroa Ma1onio Ro•es of California torSeeretari•l u1d other eervicee
!ndo•••n\ ·Boar4 e.rpenee(Note J )

$ 50,000

41 ,o8e
...' --------

2~.000

'

24 ,ooo

•

29,618

Jl ,672
)1 ,007

---------! ... ~!~~~
---=~!~~~

'

•

L••• - Pu bl 11hinc expeD.111

83,700
83,192
50!

.......................
,Retu.a.4 Crom Pait Ora-n4 Maatar

•

O\bn

•

25,000

'

!4,54!

----~=!:~~

---------·

2,)25

~.ooo

Norfolk & Western Rail•ey Company Equipment
Trust, 4%,due May 1, 1970

,,000

10,000

Norfolk & Western Railway Company Equipment
Trust, J-7/8~ due January 1, 1972

9,872

Southern California Edison Company, First
end Refunding, 4-J/8~,due May 15, 1988

44,500

702

I 145,qo5
!SL ,668

~.?:?;~;;

or eeou.rltiaa

85,70~

$

lH ,996

100 ,ooo

Stauffer Chemical Company, Convertible, 4-1/2%,
due April 1 1 1991

lOJ,2'0

40,000

United States Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%,
due September 15, 1972

:n ,991

25,000

United States Treasury Bonds, J-1/2%,
due February 15 1 1990

2,,688

Virginian Rail•ay Company, Subordinated
Income Debentures, 6%, due August l, 20 0 8

5,129

01.U ON SAL!5 OF 51lCUftITX!S , not

!.!~!~!~~

l•e•11 ot rtTenue1
The

!..:!:!~~~

aec~apanyir.1

•i-• ·~

199,no

20,000

___ :?!~!~
•

Bank, 5.80%,

Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company
Equipment Trust, EE 4~ due March 15, 1971

20 ,ooo

22

Total l"eYenu•

11: 0••1 Of reYlftUll before lain on llll91

Cred~t

2,,041

.. ................ ..
•

Federal Intermediate
due August 4, 1969

,o,ooo

Federal Inte r mediate Credit Bank, 6.90%,
due February 2, 1970

111~2

•

~26

200, 000

$ 49,408

665

8 ) ,406
• 82,650
____
---------;!~;~

Cost
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company
Equipment Trust, J-7/8%,due June 1, 1971
Dillingham Corporation Convertible, 5-1/2%,
due April 1, 1994

---- ~9.!~Z:

!--~~!9~ L-~~i~Z!
Sale or •upplha held. for re.salo
Leal - Pu.rcba1e1 a nd other direct 001t1

BONDS
Face Value

note1 to rin1ncfal 1t•te•1nt1
inte1r-•l part or th1a •t•te•en t.

4,600

Wells Fargo Bank, Con ve rtible Capital Notes,
J-1/4%, due September 1,, 1989
Total bonds

500

....... ·- --

''n
--------

,629

328

SCHEDULE l
Page 2

SCHEDULE 1
Fage )

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE

OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

OY FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE JO I 1969

JUNE JO , 1969

Cost

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCKS
~
100

400

329

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Cost

$ 17,220

200

Merck & Company

Xaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation, 4-1/8~

200

Mobil 011 Company

4 , 857

Union Oil Company of California, $2,,0

J7l

Northern States Power Company

4, 016

200

Ohio Edis on Company

4,417

100

Ow ens-Corning Fiberglas Co rporation

11,4,1

100

Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company

J, 21 0

11, 222

200

Penney (J.C.) Company, Inc.

4, 74 2

l9,69J

420

Pennsyl vania Po•er & Light Company

1 4 ,888

Total convertible preferred etock

$ J7 I )17

COMMON STOCK

•

)10

Allied Chemical Corporation

,00

American Electric Power Company, Inc.

134

BankAmerica Corp.

,,8J4

200

Phillips Petroleum Company

,, 008

JOO

Chase Manhattan Corp.

10,9'9

800

San Diego Oas & Elec tric Company

19, 526

660

Columbia Oas System, Inc,

lJ,,62

20 0

Signal Companies, Inc.

6, 472

4)0

Consolidated '!dis on Company ot New York, Inc,

lJ,145

Standard Oil or New Jersey

27 ,210

148

Continental Oil Company

6,072

Uni on Electric Company

9, 004

16,

Crown Zellerbach Corporation

','19

Warne r-Lambert Pharmac eu tical Company

18 , 266

,00

Duquesne Light Company

9,947

Wells Fargo & Company

7 , 747

200

El Paso Natural Gas Company

,,440

Western Bancorporation

802

General Public Utilities Corporation

1,,8:29

Total common sto c ks

--------$)1 J,3:28

204

Gulf Oil Corporation

J,888

Total inves t ments

2)'

Interstate Power Company

6,082

800

John1on Servic e Company

17 , 141

10, 961

--·--··$9 :26,274
•:: ::::a•••

330

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

331

SCH!DU LI 2

SCH! DULI J

TH! MOST WORSHIPFUL rRAND LODGE

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL ORAHD LODO!

OF FR!! AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF TH! STATE or CA LIFORNIA

01 FR!! AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STAT! OF CALIFORNIA

STAT! M!NT OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND OF FI CE EXPENSES.

STATEMENT OF O!N!RAL EXPENSES

FOR TH! YEARS ENDED JUN! JO, 1969 AND 1968

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUN! JO, 1262 AND 1268

Actual

Budget
1969

--------------------·-------Increase
1262

1268

$ 98,000

$ 87 ,281

$ 87,951

Orend Lodge Office - Temple
opera U oo

24 , 000

24,000

24,000

Audit

J, 000

2,500

J,000

Salaries

Gra nd Treasurer

{Decrease)

s

(670)

(~00)

2 50

Postage a nd express

6,500

~.011

5,18J

(172)

Telephone and teleg r aph

4,000·

J,640

2 , 989

651

Payro ll taxes

6,000

5,446

4,962

484

500

500

500

Retirement plan

9,100

7,618

9,7')9

{2,121)

Med ica l plan

2,000

l 15JO

l , 7')2

(20.()

Outside servi ce s

J, 000

2,JOl

l,617

684

800

?68

817

(49)

6,ooo

5,l 4J

4,544

599

I nvestment counsel

Personal property taxes
Supplie s and miscellaneous
Maintenance and repsira offi ce rurnl shings

...

l,000

•• • •a&••

Annual communication
$ 15,000
Conferences
5,000
Grand Lo dge Officers ' travel
1 5,000
Orand Or ganist and Gra nd Tiler
1 , 000
Grand Master's travel,
secretarial and sundry
18,700
Inves tment counsel for Lodges
6,700
Orand L9dge regalia
5 , 000
Repreeentatives' mileage
J7,000
Printin(
J2 I 500
Reti rement pay
900
Ritualistic Grand Lecturer
600
Inspectors' aprons a nd
stationery
J , 850
Ri t ual committee snd
inspectors ' confe renc e
and travel
15,100
Veteran buttons
6,000
Ineurance Workmen's compensa tio n Lod ges
11,000
Orand Lodge
l,6 00
Agencies
1,800
Pu blio liabi lity end
ex tended co v erage f or
lodges
29,000
Miscellaneous
___ .,. 1 ,400

_____

167

821

-------- -------$1 64, 150 $145, 905 $147,855

·--------

Bud get
1262

........ ........

The a ccompanying notes to financial statements
are an i nteg ral part of thi s statement,

( 6'4)
S{l,950)

$207,150
•

• • • • • • JI

Ac tual
-----------------------~-----Increase
{Decre anl
1268
1262
$ 1 7I191
J,648
11, 585
1,000

$ 12,764
J ,722
lJ, 717
l, 000

$ 4,427

19 , 91J
6,700
26J
J6,669
27,689
900

14 ,4 00
6,700
lJ9
J6,5J9
i8,891
900

, , ~l)

600

600

3,402

), 595

(19J)

14,491
,,8.(7

l),l ?J
4,426

1 , 318
1,401

4,278
887
1 57

8, 75 2
l, 1 2J
1,5J8

(4(474)
2J6)
(l,J81)

28I170
l ,298

J6,264
761

(8 , 094)
5J7

........ ........

$ (4,JJ6)

--------------$1 84 , 668 $189 ,004

The ac companying note• to financi a l atatementa
are an i ntegral pert or this atatement .

(74~
( 2 , lJ2

124
lJO
(l,202)

332

333

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

SCHIDULI 4
THI MOST WORSHIPFUL QRJ.MD LODGI
curronu
or
sun
HI
I
or
or ran Al!P AC CJPI!D llAS9MS
STAIEll.!NI or APPROPRIATIONS
roa THI XU RS INplp JUN! JO, 196 9 A!!p 1968
At! tUlll

Iner• •••

Bud1et

AotiYittea co. mitt••
Board ot Control
Charte r • Co mia1ttee

Co luabh. Tesapl e ( n e t ot ren tals}
Co•mere lal iam. CoJDmi tte e
Const i t uti on Obs e r vance Co•aittee
1
g~!~!:~°C~::~~t:~~ ~!i! ror n h Found• t.1 on
Youth Orders
S t ud y Orand Lo d e• Fun4•
...
e
te
it
Special Co m•
Sndo • • •llt Boa rd (No te } )
Orand Ma e t e r ' • !ndo waent Lt t t e r
Grand Lodge Ac e nc ie1 ..
Retirement p l an
Medi c al p la n

,00 '

918
68

250
l,~gg

16
670
~,s

i,gg

12,500

f ·750
,JOO

i , ~o o

l,750

~:~~!·~c~~:f~e c~.:~~~!!gten e

*

l,~~g

J OO
,00

Htetor1 Co -1 ttee
In·n •taent Co u i t t ••
Lodge Ftnancinc Coaai tt ee
Ma1oni o Ceae t e rie a Committee

~. coo
i, ~o

'Ol

26

r:m

(2,og~>

!ml

1:796
l , ,63

2,0~~

, 00
1,00

1,U9

Old llll• t o n l c Hi l l .. Loa Ange les ( ne t of rental1)
Speci•l co - i t t e e o n C. W. . C.

i, ,oo

Special f in anc e study
Coamitte e o n F i na n ce - apec i• l s tud y
8tud7 ot Soj o u rne r reli e f •nd Boa rd o r Jt t lie!' •Y•tem
3tud7 or W:aao ni c Ho•• re t ire•e nt pro Ject
8peci&l Co11s.i t te e - M.ul ti-furp o s e Fo u ndatio n
Grand Lod ge • specia l
Special Co mmittee - SoJo ur n e:- s Rel i ef' Study
Spec i a l H• • aihn Advi so ry Coamit t.ee
S pec i a l St u dy Co• • it te e - Fl f t ,- Ye ar Bu tton
~~~i~i~~ d~~ m!Ii~e ! o Oeccto ( No te! J)
Orand Ma a t e r 1 1 Rel ie f F u nd
Orend Wa i ter '• Orient ation Progra m

,,00 0
200
750

,~m

700

ldm

14,5n

i .m

i8'
71

307

684
?7
28?

"'

60

170
J08
1,J,l
6)
21!500

41

500
l,000
l 'O

a,m

6'11

JJ4
51
2.87
50

UJ

802

(6)l

168

(6,92'
29

~99)

68
'(3)41
( 'l
(246

''ol

(68)
684
?7
287

,,,,l

4,000

J ,m
J ,199
647

,,049

uo
6'.7

,60,4 2 5
900

$ 58,259
779

$69 ,829
409

$(11,570)
)70

$ 61, 325

······- !~~!=~! ..........

4)7

$,9 , OJ8

The a ccoap• n7tn1 bo te• t o ttn•n c i•l •t•tt-cen\•
are •.a inteci-•l »•r t or thi• •t• t ••tnt.

•<11 , 200)

1969

..

lhtOD1 c
V••ort•l

J.t:t h ttfu

Cdlforn h

---2!.!i!.!...-

,,,.bl hat.f oa
Ctl l r ornh
Fr e•••• o n

C-tTibu U o n. du.1 tier Statn•flt ot
J.runul l e'turne , J'1,1n.• JO , 1965

U 9 2, 19'

$3'77,16)

s 6 .91 2

,U,6' 0

. . . {d. .ue t ) .. Ad Ju• t•n t • ( CT'
,n•loue 1••r• tad t"•f~nd•, net

67

(1,244)

()~4)

U92,Z62

U75,919

I 6 ,1U

104,9'7'

'3,09)

J 4S0 ,19'

, ,, ,6tl

126

Oruut Lod1•
Siapport.

(ll,7J2)
l,765

,~i

2,g~:

T OR TKI Dil IM P!D J Olfl 20

L6
670
('18)

4,~~~

2, ~~~

&!d!e ~~ !!l s~l~~ho u H1

876
2 0 ,07l

oauo LODQI

A.MD ACC!:ttlp MAS ON-' OP' Jn:I 3 U.!I or CALlP' O••u

COMUIIVItO! S lllCUOD tJlCll .LOOOH

92

359

l,m

o r r an

m '
m <mi

2,m

Mt.aonic Edu ca t io n Co ea1 t
Publio Intor11a t io n Committ e e
Bo ard • o f Re l ie f - S0J o urne r 1
rto.&nce Co ma l t t e e
L i brary· Co aalaa l o n.
So i o urne re Co mllll t t e e

C&plt.•l additio n .. Co l u 111bia Templ •

tllll MOft WOUlUPl!j!l

2
-1.ill.. ~ -lli.L {Deere•!•
1, ?8)
84
9
~;l~~
~:m
&
&
•U
(17))

C•trltua tto11• or hltf.t.tt• tzld
artllh '\u ( e:c h1duh 6)
f ohl

1)92, 262

C• l 1tornh
Muo nh
Jlo- • or

U2~610

.......
M2,6)0

O.orr•
luMnrtoo
ll•• Oia lc J1Uoaal
llcao r t .i A•• oc htion

76'

'

18' 9,6U

l•Ol

(1,!H)

71'

N)l:, l J'

J,671

1 '1,"14S

'4, )92

'999,8?9

334

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

335

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE

SCHEDULE 6

OF FR!E AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE
EOTES TO FI NANCI AL STATEMENTS

OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

J UNE JO, 1969

STATEMENT OF ANNUAL RETURN S
FOR THE YEAR ENDE D JUNE JO, 1969
1.
Rate per
Member,
Degr ee or
Ini t iate
In support of Grand Lod ge
activities:
Per capita (note)General support and
activities
California Freemaaon
Deerees conrerred-12,804

In eupport of the Mas onic
Homes of California:
Per capita (note)
Contributions of 4,J88
initiates and 657
aff Hi ates

Total per
1969
Annual
Return s

In support of the George
Wa6hi ng ton Mason i c Nati onal
Mem orial Ass ociation,
contri butions of 4, J88
ini t iates
Total
NOT! :

basis of accounting.

1970

1969

$ 1.85

.J5
l. 00

$4Jl' 546
81,644
12,804

capitalization of amounts expended f o r furn ishing• and equ ipment
atter th at date.

3,
l.B

25.00

126,125

104,975...
_______
.,. __
_____ 975
$104,

-------·

No depreciation is pro vided for on these a1aet1.

Expenses of Ma son ic Home s

$268 J 258

$268,258

------- ..

Furniture s nd eg uipment
At t h e 1967 Co mmunicetion, Grand Lodge approYed tbe

---------------------$525 ,994
$
$525,99 4
-------- --------- -·-----$

Under t hie method revenues and expenses

generally are recognized at the time o f re.ceipt o r payment or oaab.

UJl, 546
81,644
12,804

$

Baais o f Acco unting
Th e financial statements are stated on a mo dified cash

2.

$J94,J8J

In support of the California
Masonic Memorial Temple,
contributions or 4, 388
initiates

Revenue Applicable
"to the Ye ar
Ended Ju ne JO

The approved report of the Commit.tee on Finance at the
1 968 Annual Communic a"tion recom111ended that the expenses in

21, 150

-------$289 408
----·---

co nnectio n wi tp t h e visit to the Home at Deco to and the operation•

I

o f the Endowment Board f or the fiscal year ending Ju ne JO, 1969 1
be borne by the Mas on ic Home s of Cal ifo rnia,

9. 00

$ J9' 492

$ JJ,09J

$

aggregat i ng $11,890, were borne instead by the Grand Lod1e.

6,J99

-------- -------- --------

4.
1,00

$

4, JB8

$

J,677

$

711

--·-------·---- -------$141,7 45 $822 , 512
........
··==·=··

$964. 251
.........

As of June JO, 1969, the r e were 2J6 , 870 Master Ma sons
in good st.anding. or this total, J ,602 •ere exempt
from the per capita tax due to waivers from the
Grand Lod ee, leavin& 2JJ 1 268 membe rs subject to
the per capit a tax.
The acc omp anyi ng no tes to fi n anci al st atements
are an integr al part of this s t atement.

These expense•

Pension Plan
The Grand Lodge has est ablished a pensi o n plan coveri ng
all full ~time e mployees .
$10 , 605.

Total pensio n ex pense for the year was

All prior serv ice co sts a nd cur rent service co sts aave

been funded .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

336

MASO NIC HOM ES AUDI TS

337

ARTm:r R ANDER SBN' & Co.
SJ.ll F'RANCI.I CO, C!.u.b'oi mu.

}lASONIO HOMES OF CJ.LIFORNI!
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
To the Trustee s,

JUNE ;o. 1969
Jxhibi \
Audito r•' report
Statem ent or assete, liabili t1e•, reserve s,
end fund balance •
Statem ent or Genera l Fund balance
Statem ent or Genera l Fund cash revenue s and expense s
Proper ty Fund - etateme nt of assets and fund balanae
Statem ents of reserve s for speaial purpose s and
Endowment and Trust Funds
nent Endowment Fund - stateme nts or assets ,
Pei~:bilities and rund balance and cash revenue
s
John and Lena Luckenb ach Fund ~ stateme nts or assets
an d fund balance ao d cash revenue s
and Laura E. Brigham Schola rship Fund George F. Brigham
•
d fund balance and cash revenue •
stateme nts of asse.s
an
c
Endowment Fund
George M. and Florenc e ·n·dPerina
fund balance and cash- revenue s
stateme nts of asse ts ~

le have examine d the 1tatem ents of assets, liabili ties,
I
II

III

reserve s and fund balance s of the funds or llasonio Homes
of Califor nia
(a Califo rnia corpor ation, not tor profit) as or June
30, 1969,
end the related stateme nts or cash revenue s end expense
s and rund

IV

balance s ror the 7ear then ended and the supplem entary

v

(Sched ules 1 to 3).

VI
VII

VIrI

stateme nts

Our examin ation was made in accorda nce Yi t h
genera ll7 accepte d auditin g standa rds, and ac cording ly
include d s uch
tests of the accoun ting records and such other auditin g
proce dures
a1 we conside red necessa r1 in the circum stances .

The financ ial
stateme nts for 1968 1 which are present ed ror compar ative
purpos es,
were examine d and reporte d on by other public accoun tants.

IX

Harrie t C, Wadleig h Endowme nt Annuity Fund stateme nt or assets and fund balance
O. N. Flint Trust Fund - stateme nts o.r a ss e ts and fund
balance and cash revenue s
Studen ts' Loan and Schola rship Fund - stateme nt or
assets and fund balance
Florenc e Katheri ne Burt Trust Fund - stateme nts or
assets, liabili ties and fund balance and cash revenue s
Edmund Clemen t Atkinso n Fund - stateme nts of assets
and fund balance end cash revenue s
Alida o. Meserve Trust Fund • stateme nt of assets,
liabili ties and rund balance

Mas onio Romes of Califo rnia:

x
XI
:XII

XIII
XIV

Sobedul.t.
Investm ents
Statem ents or r11erve s for ipeoia l purpose s

l

Statem ent of expena e•

'

2

In our opinion , the accomp anying financ ial stateme
nts
presen t fairl7 the assets, liabili ties, reserve s and fund
balance s
or the funds of Masonic Homes of Califor nia as of June
30, 1969,
and t he cash revenue~ end expense s for the year then ended,
and the
supplem entary stateme nts presen t fairly the inform ation
s et forth
therein , all, other t han for the change in accoun ting
for pension s
assigne d b;r residen ts dis cussed in Note 8 on a bas-is
coneis tent
1
with that or the precedi ng year.

Septem ber 2,, 1969

338

339

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IXHIBU II

IXHIBIT I
MASONIO ROMES OP' CALIFORNIA.
STAT!u:INT OP ASS!TS, LIABILITI!S, RESERVES , AND FUNp BALANC!S
JYN! 30, 1969 AND 1968
1968
1969

~

Oeneral Fund and Reserve•:
Cub
Accounts receivable
Investments (Note 2 and Schedule 1)Bonds (approximate quoted marke t
$J, 121, 000 in 1969 and $2,989,830
:l.n 1968)
Conve rtible preferred stock (approximate
quoted market $482 1 100 in 1969 and
$387,188 in 1968 )
Common stock (approximate quoted market
SJ,730,000 :l.n 1969 and $2 1 628,337
in 1968)

LIABILITIES, RESERVES, AND FUND BALAN CES
Oe ne ral Fund and Reserves:
Ac crued expenses
Accounts payable - security tranaactions
Reservee for special purposea, Jihibit V
(Note 'J)
Oeneral Fund balance, lxhib:l.t II
Property Fund balance, !xhib:l.t IV
Jndo'l'lllent and Trust Fund•:
Accounts payable - aecurity transactions
Due to General l'wld

STATEMENT OF GENERAL P'UND BALANCE
FOR THI YEARS ENDED JUNR /0, 1969 AND 1966

!_~!~?~!~~?
49,524
$

$1,8 07,082

~

890,259

Covina Reeerve

20,242

91,746

Decoto Reserve

22,;389

'

Unappropriat ed Re serve

60,741

71,.529

Covina Entert ainment Reserve

9,561

7,693

Decoto Ente rtainment Reserve

4,666

,,457

204,571

$1,288,376

1J7,476

(4J2,84 8:

Additions made directly to the General
Fund during the year:

' 3,400,110
!>26 1 083

3~1,101

-2.!.~~~.!.~~~

--~d~~.!.~~?

.. !_~!?~h~?~
----·----206,4 01 s 137,701
'
~----??.!.??~

!----~~!~~~

! _____ ~!~~!

!-----~!~~!

' 9,964,938

' 7,233,933

6,632,68"

6,766,328

26,067,619

22,97 2, 529

!-----~!~~~ ~----!?!~~~

i~~~~6J.:.~1t $j6:912:19o
c••• •••••••
•

66,777
.500,937
7,248,095

For expenses ot the Homes, from-

64,216

Cain on sales ot securities, net (Note 'J)
!xceae of revenues (expenses), Exhibit III
$

342,047

Balance, end ot year, Exhibit I

~~~~~?~~~~~

$36,972,790

···········
t1nanc1al statements

85.5,528

$2,149,129

$1,8 07 ,082

••••c~s•••

~~•C••••••

$

18,992
22, 95J ,5 J 7

$

61,295

Transfer account balance or Deooto residents

-----~~!?~~

ll,llJ

Prom Unappropriat ed Reserve - .an
amount equivalent to t he income
rec eived fr on pensions assigned
by residents ct the Decoto Home
(Note 8)

Net increase

'

The aoooapan7in1 notes to
are an 1nte1ral part ot th11 atatement,

Transfers trom re s erves for special
purposes (Schedule 2)-

$
'

--~!~=~!~~?
~-~!~~=!~~~
~-~!~E!~~~

Fund balances
Total, Exhibit Y

1968

1969
Balance, beginning ot year, Exhibit I

'7,595,79 2

Notes receivable (Note 3)
Due trom other runds
Prepaid insurance
Other aesets (Note 4)
Total aaseta - General Fund and
Reserve a
Property Fund - land, buildinge,an d
equipment, Exhibit IV (Note 6)
!ndowment and truat tunda - pr:l.noipall7
oash and securities, Exhibit V

MASON.IC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Tbe accompanying note s to !inanc:l.el statement s
are an integral part of this statement.

340

341

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHIBIT IV

EXHIBir III
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
MASON I C HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEllENT OF GENERAL FUND CASH REVENUES AND EXPENSES
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968

PROPERTY FUND
1968

1969
J!JVENOE RECEIVZD FROM:
The Moat Worshipful Grand Lodge ot Free
and Accepted Mas ons of The State of
Californ ia, annual returnsMembership at $1 • .50 per capita
Contributions of initiates and
affili ates at $2.5 each
AdJustmen ts !or previous years

JUNE J O, 1969 AN D 1968

$

$

.'.l.57,4.5.'.l
146,6.50
(1,760)

480,894

$

.502,34.'.l

$ 912,009
.'.l,.'.l61

$

81.'.l,776
J,410

____

:~!~~~

20,.'.ll.'.l

....::!~~~

948,889

$

$

Contribution fr om California Masonic
Memorial Temple

.'.l.54,21.'.l
126,42.5
256

$
Endowment and Trust funds•
Permanent Endowment Fund, Exhibit VI
John and Len a Lu ckenbach Fund, Exhibit VII
Flor enc e Katherine Burt Trust Fund,
Exhibit XIII
Edmund Cleoent Atkinson Fund, Exhibit XIV

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

Land, buildings, and equipment (Note 6):
De cato
Covina
Sen Francisco office
To t al assets

$

10, 000

.Amounts received on pensions assigned by
Deooto residents (Note 8)
Payments through Lodge s forDec oto resident s
Covina residents
Other
Total revenue
EXPENSES (Schedule J):
Operation of Masonic HomesDe coto
Covina
Outside relief
Administrative and general
Total upense
!xcess of revenues (exp~nses)
! ..;~z,~z~
Exhibit II
The aooompanying notes to tinanoial statements
are en integral part of this atatemant,

1968

$.5 ,641, 57)
l,167,J9J
2J,714

$5 ,6 J9,006
1 ,104,818
22,504

$6 ,8J2,680

$6, 766,) 28

$6,766,J28

$6,716, 728

16,810

845, 462

FUND BALANCE
Bale.nee , beginning of year

Revenue from i nvestmentsInt erest onlle.nk deposits
Notes receivable
llonds
Divi dends on stocks

1969
ASSETS

$

10, 000

Additions:
Dec oto , from Decoto Reserve (Schedule 2)
Covina , fromFlorence Katherine Bu rt Trus t Fund,
Exhibit XIII
Covina Reserve . (Schedule 2)
Al i d a O. Meserve Trust Fund, Exhibit XV
San Francisco office, fro m Reserve f or
Additi ons and Replacements (Schedule 2)

$

2,566

$

, 9, 486
40.5
2,684

18,606
18, 99 2

1,211

1,475

---------·
-·-------.50,150
66,J52 $
$

Retirements:
DecotoBuildings, improvements and equ i pment
wri t ten off due to obsol escence and
removal
Net i ncrease
Balance, end of year, Exhibit I

11, 077

550
$

66,352

$6 ,8 )2,680

The accompanying notes to fi n anc ial st at ements
are an integral part ot t his s tate me nt

$

49 , 600

$6 I 766 ,J 28

342

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

EXHIBIT V
W.SONIC HOM!S OF CALI'FORN IA
STATEMENTS OF RESERVES FO~ SPECIAL PURPOSES AND
ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS
JUNE 30, 1969 AND 1968

RESE RVES FOR BP!!rIAL PURPOSES
Schedule 2,
Page

1969

l

$ 2,039,449

Reserve tor Additions and
Replacements
Covina Reserve
Decoto Res erve
Unappropriated Reserve
Covina Entertainment Reserve
Decoto Entertainment Reserve
Total, Exhibit I

2
3

l,8!i9,66'
1,846,!i!i.3
l,49l,J08

4

''

8,756

2,J64

196a

$

811,!i99
1,574,348
1,7 00,445
1,264,852
7,604
J,78!i

----·-----$ 7,248,095 ·---------$ ,,J62,6JJ
••········· ••...•.....

!NDOnLENT AUD TRUST FUNDS
Permanent Endo'llll!ent Fund
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
George F, Brigham and Laura E.
Brigham Scholarship Fund
George M, and Florence O. Perine
Endo'lfment Fund
Harriet C, Wadleigh Endo11l!lent
Annuity Fund
0, N, Flint Trust Fund
Students• Loan and Boholarahip
Fund
Residents' Accounts
Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund
Alida 0, Meserve Trust Fund
Total, Exhibit I

Exhibit

1969

196a

VI
VII

$24,299,020
77,781

$21,325,770
77,754

VIII

43,049

4l,78J

IX

19,320

l9,J20

x
XI

7,365
295,569

7,891
284, 2Sl

XII

41s,029

na,3'8

XIII
XIV

440,885
.302,158
164,44.3

xv

343

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

2,232
411,665
288,20.3
l?!i,302

--------------------$2 6 ,067,6~9
$22,972,!i29

··········· aD••••·····

The aooompan7ing notes to financial statements
are an ~ntegral part or these statements

!XHIBIT VI
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOIVMEHT FUND
STATEM!NTS OF A::iSETS, LIA BILITIES A!ID Fl}ND BALANCE AND CASH REVl:NU!S
The pernanent e ndowment f und is re stricted by Ord i nanc es of
Grand Lod ge s o that no por tion of th~ principal shal l be expende d t or
any purpose, and t he i ncome t herefrom shall b e used onl7 f or the
aaintenance and general operation of the Masonic Homes.
STAT!MENT OF ASSETS , LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
JUtiE JO , 1969 AND 196 8
1969
Savings accounts
Dua trom sales ot aecuritiee
Investments (Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bonds (approximate quote d market $10 1 674,000
$ll,9 49 ,72!i
. in 1969 and $10,285 , 617 in 1968)
Conve r t ible preferred stocks (approx i mate
and
1969
in
000
18.3
$1
market
~uoted
1
1
1,278,J.32
, 1 ,255, 240 in 1908)
Common s tock s ( approx imate quoted market
9,268,078
$9 1 313 1 000 in 1969 and $8, 777,396 i n 1968)

418, J92
... ...
--------l!i4,J6 2
$
$

$ll,112, 6J5
1,228 ,275
8 I J75 I 294

----------------·---J~~d2~!;~~ !~9iZ!-~!~ 2~

Total investments
Hotea reoeivabla (Hota 3)
2~!~2:
!----~~!~~~
}________ ;Q !J...
________ H
Other assets (Note 4-)
$24,299,020 $21, 325, 770
Total auets
LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
,, ____
______
$ 1,202,250
Accounts payable - security transactions
Fund balance:
$21,.325,770 $19,6J2'116
Balanc e, beginning or year
Add (deduct) 886,120
863,340
Contributions through Lodges
Progre s s payments on pledges, un all ocated(67 ,886)
(BJ,906)
}
(deduct
year
£
0
.At beginning
70,768
SJ , 906
At end or ye ar
JJ7,101
411,827
Bequest s
719
449,
1
4~5,J9
net
curities,
se
Oai n on sale s ot
7, 697
7 H9
Contribut ions
777
,
19
Memorials
----------year
or
Balance, end
!~~ ! 2~~ !.? ?2 !~~!.~~~!.??2
Tot al l iabilities and fund balance ,
$24, 299,020 $21,J 25,710
Exhibit V
STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES
FOR THE YEARS ENDED
JUNE JO , 1969 AND 1968
9 , 197
20, 104 $
$
I nteres t on bank deposi t s
41 0 ,744
487 , 671
I nterest on bonde
J92,Jl7
402, JJ7
Dividends
l, :;16
1 , 917
I ntere s t on note s. receivable
2
(2g)
Ne t ip~ om e (ex pense) fr om real
Mtscellaneoue l ncome
Re venue t ransferred to General Fund
! ...2:~ ,~ ~2
· inc ome, Exhibit III
The accompanying notes t o financial statements
are an intesral part or t he se siat ement a.

.

........... .......•.•
~--···-----

-----~~~~~~

··=········ ·-=·········

344

345

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHI BIT VIII

EXHIBIT VII
)LAS ONIC ROMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC ROVES OF CALIFORNIA

Q!ORGE F, BRIGHAll AND LAURA E, BRIGHAM
JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND

SCHOLARSHIP FUND

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE AND CASH RlV!NUES
The principal, restricted by the terms or the Will, 18 to ba
kept intact and the inc ome used only for the benefit or the oare ot
orphans or the aie~ in Masonic Homes or Southern California.

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE AND CASH REVENUES
The principal is hel~ as a scholarship fund tor the benefit
ot the Covina Home residents, $25,000 ot which may be l oaned f or thi s
purpose. Income of this tund is restricted and may be used only !or
providing scholarships.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968

Savings account
Investments (Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bonds (approximate quoted market $J2,500 in
1969 an d $J7,994 in 1 96 8)
Common stock (appr oximate quoted market
$17 1 000 in 1969 and $20 , 188 in 1 968)

Total assets
FUND BALANCE

J UNE JO, 1969 AND 196S
1969

1966

$20,4.51

$1',451

$J9,717

$44,690

17,613

17,613

------- -------

------------$57,JJO $62, JOJ
------------$77,781 $77,7.54

Savings accou.nt
Investments (Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bonds (approximate quoted market $7 1 500 in 1969
and $7,61.'.J in 1968)
Common s to ck (approxima te quoted market $1~ 1 000
in 1969 a nd $21 1 26J in 1968 )

··=-···· .......
$77,7.54

Balance, end or year, Exhibit V

$77,781

$ S,0.54

$ S,0.54

17,672

lJ, 595
------------$21,649 $25,726
------------$4J 049 $41,7SJ

··=···· .......

Total assets

$79,770

27

I

(2,016)
------- ------$77,754

....... ........

Balance, beginning ot year

$41,763

Add (deduot):
Qain (loss) on sale of se cur ities, net

.,._ ...
1,266
____

Balance / end or year, Ex.h i bit V

STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES

$41,520

26.J
------$4 J,049 $41,783

••••c.••

.......

OF CASH REVENUES
STATEMENT
I

FOR THE YEA RS ENDED

FOR THE YEARS ENDED

JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968

J UNE ;o. 1969 AND 196S
• 2,419
942

Revenue transferred to General
Fund income, Exhibit III

$21,400 $16,057
-------------

FUND BALANCE

Balance, beginning or year
Add (deduct):
Gain (loss) on sale or securities, net

Interest
Dividends

1968

1969

$ J,J61
•••a•••

The accompanying notes to financial statements
ara an integral part or these statements.

' 2,267
1,143

.......
' 3,410

976
$ ..____
__
915

Interest
Pividenda
Revenue transferred to Students • Loan
and Scholarship Fund , Exhibit XII

$ 1,891
••••1>••

The accompanying notes to tinancial statements
are an inteiral part or these statements.

$

832
989

-------

.......
$ 1,821

346

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IIBIBIT IX

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

HARRIET C, WADLEIGH ENDO\Yl.CENT

ENOOWl.!ENT FCJNO

Alll!UITY FUND
STAT!MEHT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

STATEJ.reNTS OF ASSETS ANO FUND BALAHCE AllO CASH REVENUES
The principal, subject to the provision included in the 'Will
of the testator, ehall be kept intact and only the income therefrom
shall be used !or the benefit of the Decoto Home,

JUNE 30. 1969 AND 1968

1969

1968

This tund, in the original amount at $30, 000, is subjeot to a
oontraot with the donor providing for the payment ot certain l ife
annuities out of the principal and income thereof , Under the. terms o t
the contract, onl7 principal or the fund expended in payment or the
annuities is to bo later restored out of income to the fund when the
annuities no longer absorb the entire income . After restoration or the
princip~l to the original sum or $J0,000 the income from the fund ia
1
to be uaed tor the benefit ot the residents
at the . Covina Home.

$ 4,652

$ 4,652

..li2L ....!.2M_

STATEMENT OF ASSETS ANO FUND BALANCE
JUNE 30, 1969 AND 1968

Savings account

------- ------$10,000

$10,000

------- ------------- ------4,668

4,668

$14,668

$14,668

Savings aooou.nt

$l9,J20

FUtlD

$1,244

6,647

6,647

$7,365

.......

Balance, beginning or year

$7 ,891

$6,422

.L4d (deduct):
Interest
D1Tid1nd1

$

Investments (Note 2 and Schedule·l):
CoJ1J11on stock (approximate quoted market
$7,800 in 1969 an d $8 1 525 in 1968)
Total auets

$19,J20

BALANCE

Balanoe, beginni ng and end or year

$19,J20
........ .......

$19,J20

STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES

Annuities paid aa required

JUNE 30 , 1969 AND 1968

Net deoreasa
'

Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reserve, page J of Schedule 2

5J6
288

'

5J7
266

....... .......
'

The accompanying notes t o tinanoial statements
are en integral pert or these statemen ts,

824

$

80J

$7,891

FUND BAI.ANOI

FOR THE YEARS ENDED
Intereet
Dividends

•

718

....... .......

Total assets

EXHIBIT X

llASONIO HOM!S OF CALIFORNIA

GEORGE M, ANO FLORENCE G, P!RIN!

Investments (Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bonde (approximate quoted market $7 1 000 in 1969
and $7,86J in 1968)
Common stock (approximate quoted market $5,100
in 1969 and $5,475 in 1968)

347

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

!elanoe, end ot year, Exhibit V

70
454

$

90
429

519
$ 52.4
(l,0!10 ) (1,050)

'
------ ------

' (526) $ (5Jl)

...... ......
$7,J65

The aecompan7ing notes to tinanoial stateme nts
are an integral part ot this statement,

$7,891

348

349

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

UHIBIT XI

}.(ASONIC HOM?S or CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT XII

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORNIA
STUDENTS ' LOAN AND SCH OLARSHIP FUND

Q, N, FLINT TRUST FUND

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AUD FUND BALANCE
STATn.!l!:NTS OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE AND CASH RlV!NU!S

J UNE JO, 1969 AN~ 1968

The principal consists ot gifts from C, H, Flint, The income
from this fund bas been designated b7 the trustees tor use at the
Decotc Heme,

The principal arises from gifts, The fund is designated b7
the trustees tor use for student l oan and scholarship purposes.

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANO!

1969

1966

$1 00 ,212

$ 19,096

$ 68,271

$103 ,2 71

96,189

1,5,629

lJJ,297

___60,.. ____
,:362

J UNE JO, 1969 AND 1966
1969

1966

Savi.ngs account
Investments (Note 2 and Sehedule l):
Bonds (approximate quoted market $152 1 000
in 1969 and $151,057 in 1968)
Convertib l e preferred stock (approximate
quoted market $8,500 in 1969 and $12,6'0
in 1968)
Common stock (approximate quoted market
$97 1 600 in 1969 and $91,117 in 1968)
Total assets

$162,356
9,6,l

$162,356

65,056

64,614
$t44,467

Total assets

Bala:noe, beginning ot year

$264,251

$263,760

ll,Jl6

491

Add (deduct ):
Inte rest
Df vidends
Girts
George F, and Laura E, Brigham
Scholarship Fund income, Exhibit VIII

$295,569

$284,251

$284,251

........ ........

ST.ATEM!NT OF CASH REVENUES

Loa:na and grants tor educational purposes
Net revenue

!OR THE YEARS ENDED

Baque a ta
Gain on 1ale s or seourities, net

JU!IE JO, 1969 AND 1966

Net increase

Interest
Dividends

Balance, end ot ;vear, Exhibit V
Revenue transferred to Decoto
Reserve, page 3 of Schedule 2

$ 11,804

$ 12,501

••••*••• ••••••••
The accompanying notes to financial statementa
are en integral part er these statements.

-------- --------

--------

$Jl7,757 $319 , 262
--------------$ 418,029 $336,:356
•••:::aa.•:z•

•••••• c•

FUllD BALANCE

........ ........

FUND BALANC!

Balance, end ct ~ear, Exhibit V

Investme nts (Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bonds (approximate quoted market $61,000 in
1969 nnd $98,164 i n 196 8 )
Convertible pref erred stock (approx i mat e
quoted marke t $91,700 in 1 969 and
$172 1 788 in 1968)
Co11U11cn stoc k (approxima te quoted market
$12, 1 000 in 1969 and $62 1 988 in 1966)

17,497

$257,065
$295,569

Balance, beginning ot year
Add (deduct):
Gain (loss) on sales of seourities, net

Savings account

$336 ,358 $.:314 ,666
--------------$

7,172
8,349
377

$

4,610
6,802
139

J.,891 _ ___
1, ...,_.,.
621
--------·
$ 17,789 $ 15t372
....

__ ..,(1,590)
_____

800 )
-------14,,72
$ 16,199
$

,,,501
.,. 7 ,971

_______
---~!~~~
79 ,671
$ ____
_.,.
...,_ $ 23,692

........ -------........

$418,029

The aoccmpan;ving notea to finflncia'i ste.temente
are an integral part of this statement.

$JJB,J58

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT XIII
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
FLORENCE KATHERINE BURT TRUST FUND
STATEMENTS OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE AND CASH REVENUES
The principal, subject to the pr ov ison in the Will or the
testator, shall be used for re novating p r ese nt premises or maki ng
per~anent ndiitions to the Mnsonic Homes within n period or ten years
rr oo January 5, 196 5, the date of the decree or distribution.
One-third or the principal is designated for the Covina Home and
two- thirds for the Decoto Home.
STATEMENT OF ASS ETS, LIABIL ITIES AND FUND BALANCE
JUNE )0, 1969 AND 1968
l96S
1969

MASONIC HOM ES OF CA LIF ORN IA

350

351
EXHIBIT XIV

EDMU ND CLEMENT ATKINS ON FUND
STATEME NTS OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE AND CASH REVENUES
The principal, subject to the provision in the Will or the
teetator,shall be used to contribute to the comfort, conve nience, and
enjoyme nt or the residents of the Decato Home.
STATEMENT OF ASSETS AN D FUND BALAN CE
JUNE 30 , 1969 AND 1968

Co.eh

Investments {Note 2 end Schedule 1):
Bonds (approximate quoted market $:30,500 in
1969 and $84 ,961 in 1968)
Convertible preferred stock (approximate
quoted market $ 22 , COO in 1969 and
$24,5 50 in 1968)
Common stock (approximate quoted market $19.2,000
in 1969 and $21 7, 666 in 1968)
Notes receivable (Note 3)
Total assets
LIABILITIES A~D FUND BALANCE
Due to Gener al Fund
Fund balance:
Balance, be~innin g of year
Add (deduct)Gain on eale or s e curities, net
Transferred to prope rty fund !or Covina
r edevelopment, Exhibit IV
Balance, end or year
Total, Exhibit V
STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES
FOR THE YEARS ENDED
JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968
Interest
D1 vidends
Other

!:::!.~~~

!_~Z!Z~~

$ :32, 597

$ 86,719

2J,J70

19,992

201,190
-----....206,694
-------!~~ZL!2Z t"/!2.~~z

!_Z~!.Z~~
$440,885

•O••••••

······--

$411,66,

$:39~,044

8,908

l6,62l

-~~2,~!~> ~------­

Mote receivable (Note J)

$ 2J,4J7 $
--------------$100,958

$ 8~, 729

16,536

J9,J88

156,689

145,010

--------------$274 ,lBJ $274 ,127
--------------$ 4, 5J8 $ 4,6 ,8

--------------$J02,l56 $288,20J

Total assets

••s:••••· •••s:••••

~ U ND

BALAllCE

Balance, beJinning o f year
Add (deduct J:
Qa1n on sale of securities, net
Balance, end or year, Exhibit ·v

!~~:!~!! !~::!~~~

$26B,20J

$287,472

lJ,955

7Jl

--------------$J02, l58 $288,20J

........ ........

STATEMENT OF CASH REVENUES

$411,665

c••••••• ••••••••

FOR THE YEARS ENDED
JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968

*

11,998
8,314

$

6,9J6
9,874

l

Revenue transferred to General Fu.nd
income , Exhibit III

Investments ( Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bond6 (approxi~ate quoted market
$97 ,5 00 in 1969 and $87,6J4 in 1966)
Conver t ible preferred stock (approximate
quoted market $15,000 in 1969 end
$47,150 i n 1968)
Common sto ck (ap proxi mate quo ted market
$154,500 in 1969 and $1 42,867 in 1968)

!_!2!!2! ! ______ _

$440,885

9 ,218

Ca.sh

$ 80,714

-------$411,665

1968

1969

M§..!!§.

$ 20,313

$

Revenue transferre d to General
Fund income, Exhibit III
$ 16,810

--·=···= .-.. =····

The accompanying notes t o financial atateme nta
are an integral part ot these statements .

Interest
Dividends
Other

6,207
6,974
25

........
$ lJ, 206

The accompanying notes to financial statements
•re an integral pert or these sta t ement•.

$

J,656
7 ,J8'
225

$ 11,466

=•s•••••

352

353

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

8ClJ!D1l'tE 1

EXHIBIT XV

Page l

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIF ORNIA

MASONIC HOll!S OF CALIFORNI~

ALIDA 0. MESERVE TRUST FUN D

INV!STUENTS

STATEMENT OF ASSETS. LIABILITIES AND FUND BALAHCE
JUNE JO , 1969 AND 196 8

JUN! JO , 1962,

The principal is to be used tor playgrounds, playground
equipment and other comparable f orms of amusement for the boye
at Covina ,

Savings account
Investments (Note 2 and Schedule 1):
Bonds (approximate quoted market $46,000
in 1969 and $49,J69 in 1968)
Convertible pr eferred stock (approx imate
quoted market $15,000 in 1969 and
$9, 900 in 1968)
Common stock ( approximate quoted market
$101, 700 in 1969 and $118,444 in 1968)

Total aseete

BONDS
Gene ral Fune!

1969

196!!

$ 19,161
-.. --......

$ 12,J46
.. _____
__

$ 55,8J9

$ 55,8J5

10,052

10,0.52

?9 ,J91

97 ,069

------- - -------·
$162,9!>6
$14!> , 2!!2
-------- -------$17' J02
$l64,44J
.........
•==-=·=··
J

LIABI LITIES AND F UN~ BALANCE
Due to General Fund, Exhibit I
Fund balance :
Bal an ce, beginning of year
Add (deduct)Bequest by Alida 0, Meserve
Cain on sale of securities, net
Interest
Dividends
Cap ital improvements in recreati on area,
transferred to Property Fund, Exhibit IV
Balance, end of year
Total liabilities and fund ba lance,
!xhibit v

18,992
$
--------------$

$B6,;no

$16?, 218
66

2,!!07
J,2J9
4,771

J02
2,609
!>,107

(2,684)

(l!!,992)

--------------$1!>6 , Jl O
$164,44J
-------- --------

........

$164,443

$175,J02

'

100, 000

American Broac! caeting Companies, Ina,,
Convertible, ,%, due Jul7 1 1 199 )

•

ll0 1 2JO

100,000' American Telephone & Telegraph Comp•Jl71
'-1/8%, due April l, 2001

i oo,2'0

100,000

American Telephone & Telegraph Compan7,
!>-!>/8%, due August 1 1 199'

99,37'

25,000

.&mrao, Inc., Convertible, ' -1/ 4- 1

25,000

!>,,000

Ches apeake & Ohio Ra1lwa7 Company- Equipment
Trust, 4-1/4~, due August 1 1 1969

,,,137

7,,000

Chicago, Burlington & quinc7 Railroac! Compan1
Equipment T'r ust, 3-7/e~, due June 1 1 1970

1 00,000

Del 1Lonte corporation, Convertible, '-1/4-,
due March 1 1 1994

200,000

Federal I ntermediat e Credit Bank, 6,90-,
due r ebruar7 2, 1970

200,188

,00,000

Federal Home Loan Banks, 8%, due June 26 1 1970

500,937

100,000

Federal Intermed!ate Credit Bank, 6,3,~ 1
due Octo~er l, 1969

200,000

Federal Intermediate crec!it Bank,
due August 4 1 1969

c!ue 1La7 1 1 1994

,,so•,

,3,000 First National Git7 Bank ot NeY York,

4-

1

conver t ible capital Notes, due Jul7 1 1 1990

100,000

:c:ra::•s• •

100,000
The a ccompanying note s to finan cial statements
are an integral pa r t of thi s statement ,

Coat

race Value

72,000

f)(C Corporation, convertible,

4-1/4- 1

due Jul11', 1 992
Qrolier, Ina., Convertible, 4-1/4~ 1
due Hovember 1 1 1987
Qult & Yestern Inc!uatries, Inc., Convertible,
'·l/2%1 due Jul.7 1 1 1993

,2,12,
98,2'0
96,250

35i

PRO~EEOINGS OP THE

355

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

8CBJ!DULB 1
Page

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTlll!NTS

JUNE JO, 1969

JUll! JO

Face Value
$

3

Cost

I

1969

Face Value

Ooat

J26,750

United Statee Treaeur7 Bonde, 2-1/2~,
due September 15 1 1972

,0,000 , Norfolk & Western Railway Company tquipment
Trust, 4~, due May 1, 1970

191 1 000

United States Treasury Bonde, 3·1/2j 1
due February 15, 1990

40,000

12,700

Virrinian Railway Comp!Ulli Subordinated
Inco•e Debenturee, 6%, due Auiust l, 2008

14,0Jl

27,800

Wells Fargo Bank Convertible Capital Hotee,
3-1/4%, due September 15, 1989

22,61J

Welle Fargo Bank Capital. Hotee, 4-1/2~,
due September 15, 1989

13,400

10,000

100,000
100,000

Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company
Equ'ipment Trust, 4~, due March l', 1971

Norfolk & Western Railway Company !quipment
Trust, J-7/8~, due J anuary 1, 1972
Nortolk & Western Railway Company Equipment
Trust, '-1/8~, due January 1, 1976
Northern Pacitic Railway Company Equipment
Trust, 5%, due March J, 197J

'
$

10,000

J9 ,499
99,423

so,ooo
99,708

50,000

Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company,
Debentures, 4-,/8~, due April 1, 1999

100,000

Pan American World Air~ays, Inc.,
Convertible, 5-1/4%, due February 15, 1989

100,000

Penney (J.C.) Company, Inc., Convertible,
4-1/4~, due July l, l99J

74,518

70,000
100,000

Rochester Telephone Corporation, Convertible,
4• J/4%, due March l, 1994

1,,000

Seaboard Air Line Railr oad Company tquipment
Trust, 4%, due February 1 1 1971

100,000

Seaboard Air Line Railr oad Company Equipment
Trust, 4-7/8~, due March 1, 197'

100,000
10,000
J0,000
50,000

Seaboard Air Line Railroad Company Equipment
Trust, 4-7/8%, due March 1, 1976

Total, Exhibit I

100,000

'

319,761
194,850

'3,400,110

Pe?'lllanent E~doW'!llent Fund
200,000
100,000

Amerac• Corporation, Convertible, 5j,
due September 1 1 1992

s

207,500

JJm.erioan Broadcasting Companies, Ina,,
Convertible, ,%, due July la 1993

110,250

14,951

100,000

American Telephone & Telegraph Company,
,_,/8%, due August l, 1995 ·

99,375

98,J95

100,000

.#Jll.erioan Telephone & Telegraph Comp any-,
'-1/S~, due April 1 1 2001

100,2!!0

Amtac, Inc., Convertible, '·1/4%, due
May l, 1994

110,000

Atlantic Coast Line Railroad Comp any
Equipment Trust, 4-1/8%, due
September 1 1 19o9

98,832

Beaunit Corporation, Convertible, 4-1/4~ 1
due August 1 1 1990

133,447

98, 641

110,000

Southern Pacific Company Equipment Trust,
J-7/8~, due January 1, 1971

9,888

100 1 000

Southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
4%, due August 1,, 1970

J0,000

Stauffer Chemical Company, Convertible,
4-1/2~, due April 1, 1991

,o, 12,

170,000

356

SOHIDtJLl l

SCH:!DU L1: l
Page '

Paire 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIF OR NIA

MASONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE JO, 1969

JUNE JO 1969

'

100,000

Caatle & Cooke Ina,, convertible, '-3/S~,
due llaroh 1 1 1994

100,000

Chicago , Buriington & Quino7 Railroad
Compan7 Equipment Truet, 4-3/6~,
due Jul7 1 1 1969

100,000

Chicago, Burlington & Quinc7 Railr oad Compan7
Equipment ~ruet, 4- 7/6~, due September l,,
1976

100,000
60,000

I

Coat

Face Value

Face Value

Coat

100 1 000

FMC Corporation, Convertible, 4-1/4~,
due July 1!5, 1992

100, 000

General Mot ors Ac ceptance Corpo rati on,
Debentures, 4- ,/8J, due Sept ember l, 1962

1!50,000

General Tele phone & Electroni cs Corp oration,
Converti ble, 4~, due Marc h 1 5 1 1990

96,!566

200,000

Del llonte Corporation, Convertible, ,.1/4~,
due Karch l, 1994

Great Northern Railway Company Equipment
Trust, 4-1/4~, due April 1,, 1972

196,224

96 , 000

100,000

Dillingham Corporati on, Convertible, '-1/2~,
due April l, 1994

60,000

Gulf, Mobile & Ohi o Railroad Compan7
Equipment Trust, Series M, 4-1/ 8%, due
August 1 1 1969

99,096

200 ,000

Gult, Mobile & Ohi o Railroad Compan7
Equipment Trust, 4-,/6~,
due Januar7 l,, 1974·

169,000

Gulf & Weste rn In dustr~es , Ina,, Convertible,
5-1/~J. due Jul y 1, 1993

100,000

1,200,000

Federal Home Loan Banks, S~, due June 26,
1970

1,202,2,0

600,000

Federal Intermediate Cred i t Bank, ,,60~,
due Auaust 4, 1969

,97,7'0

$

Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 6,.'),~,
due October 1 1 1969

109,500

International Bank tor Rec onstruction and
Development, 4·1/2~, due February l, 1962

100,000

Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 6,90~,
due Februar7 2, 1970

,00,000

Federal 'National Mortgage Asaooiation,
4-1/6~, due August 10 1 1971

100,000

Federal National Mortgage Aesooiation,
'-1/6~, due February 10, 1972

1,000,000

Federal National Mortgage Aeaooiatio:o,
'·4'~• due April 1 1 1976

94,000

F1rst National Cit7 Bank ot ReY York,
convertible Capital Note•, 4~,
due J\117 l, 1990

9,,200

Florida PoYer l L1ght Oomp•nT, lat, 4-3/S-,
due :Deoeaber l, 1966

179,000

200,000

357

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

100,094
,0,,2,0

99,911
l,000,000

100, 000

Kansas Gas & Electric Company , lat,
due Februar7 l, 1966

60,000

Louisville & Nas hvi lle Railroad C o~pan7
Equipment Truat, 4~, due March 15 1 1971

60,000

100,000

Louisville & Nashville Railroad Company
Equipment Trust, J-7/6~, due June l, 1971

96,626

100,000

Lou isville & Naehville Railroad Compan7
Equipment Truet, 4-3/SJ, due
.lugust 1,, l97J

98,8.')S

100,000

lliesouri Pacitio Railroad Compan7 Equipment
Trust, 4J, due May 1 1 1970

99 1 116

Norfolk ~ Yestern Railwa7 Compan7 Equipment
Truat, 4~, due May 1 1 1970

1,,000

_ l,,ooo

3 - J/6~,

77 , 750

358

359

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SCHEDULE l
Page 6
VJ.SONIC HOKES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOME S OF CALIF ORNI A

INVESTMENTS

IN VESTMENTS

JUN1! JO, 1969

JUNE JO
Coat

Face Value
i

SCHEDULE l
Page 7

race

Va l ~e

Cost
Sou t hern Railway Comp any Equipment Trus t ,
4-J/8%, due Septem ber 16 , 1969

60,000

Southern Railway Company Equipment Trust,
4%, due August 15 1 1970

60 , 000

~o,ooo

Stauffer Chemical Company, Convertible,
4-1/2% , due April l, 199 1

49,129

Norfolk & Western Railwa1 Company Equipment
Trust, J-7/8~, due January 1 1 1972

100,000

Norfolk & Western Railway Company Equipment
Trust, 5-1/8~, due Januar7 1 1 197.J

100,000

Norfolk & Western Railwa7 Company Equipment
Trust, 5•1/8~, due Januar1 1, 1977

99,787

200 ,000

Northern Paoitic Railway Compan7 !quipaent
Trust, 4·1/8~, due March 18 1 1970

197,622

100,000

Northern Pacific Railway Company Equipment
Truat, 4-l/8~, due March 18, 197.J

200,000

'

1969

100,000

50 ,000

i

I

99,010

200, 000

Tol edo Ed ison Company, lat,
due August 1, 1997

$

100,651

6-1/8~,

202,095

Trans World Airlines, Inc., Convertible,
5%, due J anu ary l, 1994

200,000

Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Comp&n)' 1
4-5/8~ 1 due April 1 1 1999

100,000

Tri-Da m Project Revenue Bonds, J.05 %,
due July 1, 2004

100 , 218

100,000

Pan American Yorld Airways, Ina.,
Convertible, 5-1/4%, due Februar1~,, 1989

?J0 , 000

United Sta tes Treasury Bond s, 2-1/ 2%,
due September 15, 1972

7lJ,660

110,000

Penne7 (J,C,) Compan7, Ina,, Convertible,
4-1/4%, due July l, 199.J

lJ0,000

Penne7lvania Railroad Company Equipment
Trust, 5-1/4~, due October 1 1 197'

16 5 ' 000

Public Service Electric & Gae Compan7i let and
Refunding, 4-.J/8~, due November 1 1 986

70,000

Seaboard Air Line Railroad Company Equipment
Trust, 4%, due February l, 1971

200,000

Seaboard Air tine Railroad Compa117 !quipment
Trust, 4·1/4~, "due June 1 1 1971

50,000

100,000

100,000
90,000
J00,000

100,000
1, 0,, '000
116,769

Southern Pecific Compan1 Equipment Truet,
J-7/8,, due January l, 1971
Southern Pacific Compan7 Equipment Tru1t,
4-1/2%, due December l, 1972

l,O B4,95J
165,75J

100,000

Virg i nia Electric & Power Company,
Convert ible, J-5/8%, due May l, 1986

9 0,5 00

17,JOO

Virg inian Railway Company, Subo r d in a ted
Income Debentures, 6%, du e Augu st l, 2008

19 , llJ

28 , 100

Wells Farg o Bank, Convertible Capt ial No tee,
J - 1/4%, due September 15 , 1989

22, 9 43

100,000

Wells Farg o Bank, Capital Notes , 4-1/2%,
due September 1 5, 1989

88,500

197,926

100,000

68,988
1J5,000
290,619

J -1 /2~,

Uni ted Sta t es Treasur y Bond s, J-1 / 2%,
due Novem ber 15, 1998

69,770

Southern California Gas Company, let, J·l/2,,
due April 1 1 1982

Un i t e d States Treasury eonds,
due Fe br uary 15, 1990

Western Maryland Railway Company Equipment
Trust, 4-1/4 %, due November 15, 1969
Wheeling Steel Corporation, J-J/4%,
due Nove mber 15, 1975
Tot al, Exhibi t VI

100,260
124,890

----------i 11,949, 725
---------- -

360

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SCHEDULE l
Page a

SCHEDUL! 1
Page 9

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC ROM!S OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS
JUNE

John end Lena Luckenbach Fund

15,000
15, 000
10,000

Co et
Nor£olk & Western Railway Company Iquipment
Tru st , 4%, due May 1 1 1970

15 , OJ?

1.5,000

Seaboard Air Line Railroad Company Equ ipment
Trust , 4%, due Febr uary l, 1971

14,949

United States Treasury Bonde, J-1/2%,
due February 15, 1990

14, J84

l0,000

Southern Railway Company Iquipment Trust,
4~, due August 15 1 1970

10, 000

Wheeling Steel Corporation, Convertible,
J-J/4%, due November 15, 1975

10,296

25,000

United States Treasury Bonde, 2-l/2%,
due September 15, 1972

12,000

United States Treasury Bonde, 3-l/2~,
due February 15 1 1990

1,600

Wells rargo Bank, Convertible Capital Notes,
J-l/4%, due September 15, 1989

5,000

Wheeling Steel Corporation, Convertible,
J- J/4%, due November 15, 1975

Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company Equipment
Trust, 4-l/4%, due August 1 1 1969

$

$

J9' 717

Sch olarship Fund
Beaunit Corporation, Convertible, 4-l/4%,
due August 1, 1990, Erbibit Vlll

Total, Exbib i t II

George M. and Florence G. Perine

United States Treasury Bonds, J-1/2%,
due November 15, 1998, Exhibit IX

J0,000

$

11,4,2

,,166
$

l 62,J5.6

Students' Loan and Scholar ship Fund

Endowment Fu nd
$

10,000

c, N. Flin t Trust Fund
J0,000

Chesapeake & Ohio Rail•ay Company Equipment
Trust, 4-1/4%, due August 1, 1969

JO ,on

25,000

Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company
Equipment Trust, J-7/8%, due June 1, 1970

24,811

Lou isvil le & Nashville Rai lro ad Company
Equipment Truet, 4%, due March 15, 1971

10,000

10,000

1969

J0,000

George F. Brigham and Lau ra E. Brigham

10,000

I

Cost

Total, Exhib it VII

10,000

JO

Face Value

l'ace Value
$

361

GRAND LODG!! OP CALIFORNIA

10,000

Beaunit corporati on, Convertible, 4 -1/4~,
due August 1 1 1990

J,,000

Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 6.• J5%,
due Uctober 1 1 1969

25,000

Pennsylvania Railroad Company Equipment
Trust, 5-l/4%1 due October l, 1975

24,907

25,000

Southern California Ges Company, let, J-1/2~,
due April l, 1982

20,)44

Total, Exhibit XII

•
J4, 966

'

118 ,271

363

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SCBBDULI l

Par• 11

SC'H!DUL! l
Paga 10
MASONIC ROMl!!S OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOlllS OF CALIFORNIA

I NVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE

JO

I

1969

JUN"E JO.

Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCX
Coat

FaGa Value
,,000
2,000

Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 6.)5%,
due October 1, 1969
Piret Nati onal City Bank 0£ New York,
Convertible Capital Notes, 4%,
due July 1 1 1990

~.004

2,000

9,000

Gulr & Western Induetriee, InG ., Convertible,
,.1/2%, due Jul y 1, l99J

,,667

20,000

Penns7lvani a Railroad Company Equi pment
Truet, ~-1/4%, due October 1 1 197'

19,926

Total, Exhibit XIII

i

J2,597

Edmund Clement Atkins on Fund
2,,000

Federal Interme diate Credit Bank, 6,J5 %,
due October 1, 1969

,0,000

Federal Intermediate Credit Banlt, 6,90%,
due Febru ary 2, 1970

1,000

First Nation al City Bank, Conve rtible Notes 1
4%, due July 1, 1990

24,979

1,000

General Fund

10,000

Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 6 . ),%,
due October 1 1 1969
laneas Gas & Electric Company, let,
)-J/8%, due Februar y 1 1 1986

20,000

I ells Fargo Banki Cap ital Not es, 4-1/2%,

due September ~, 1989
Tota1 1 Exhibit r'l
Total Bonda

28,180

900

American later Works c·ompany, Ina., 4.10~

700

DiU1ond ShU1rook Corporation, f2.00

33,,69

800

General Signal Corporatlon,$4.00

78,109

100

Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Co~poration, 4-1/8%

10,J27

2,400

Purex Corporation, $1.J'

80,,,l

1,000

RCA Corporation, $4.00

106,228

600

Re)'Jlolda Metals Com~any, 4-1/2~

57,798

200

Standard Oil Company or Ohio, 4~

19,9'3

l,0,.2

Sun Oil Compan7, t2,2'

,6,821

200

Tenneco, Inc,, $5.,0

20,799

,00

Onion Oil Company or OaJitornia, $2 , ,0

)),748

Total, Exhibit I

'

,26 ,08J

$

18,812

Permanent Endowment Fund

Alida 0, Mese rve Fund
Be aunit Corporation, Convertible, 4-1/4%,
due August 1, 1990

coat

Shares

Pennsyl v ania Railroad Company Equipment
Trus t, 5- 1/4%, due Oct obe r 1 1 1 9 7~
Total, Exhibit XIV
10,000

1969

600

'

9,998
19,4)7
18,),0

----------·
?----~~!~~2

!!~,~~7,~~7

American later f orks Company, In·c ., 4 .10~

,,000

common•ea1th Edison Company, $1 .42'

171,700

2,JOO

Diamond Shamrock Corporati on, $2.00

110,48'

800

General Signal Corporation, $4.00

78,400

1,700

Iaiaer Aluminum & Chemi cal Corporation, 4-1/8%

157,427

1,)00

Purex Corporation, $1.35

42,841

1,000

RCA CorpOTation,$4.00

106,4'6

PROC EEDI NGS OF THE

36i

365

GRAN D LODGE OF CALI FORN IA

SCHEDUL! 1
Page 12

SCH!DUL! l
Page l.J

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS

JUSONIC HOM?S OF CALIFORNIA

JUNE 30 , 1969
Share e

1,100

Re;rnolde Keta ls Company, 4-1/2~
stand ard. Oil co1:1pany ot Ohio , 4~

2,000

Sun Oil Comp any, $2,2 '

1,400

800
900
1,000

$

100

,00

Stud ents' Loan and Scho larsh ip Fund
4,10~
American Water Works Company, Ino,,

100

Gene ral Sign al Corp orati on, $4.00

300

Purex Corp orati on, $1.35

900

Union Oil Company of Cali forn ia, $2.50
Tota l, Exhib it XII

100

Plore n«:e Kath erine BuTt Trus t Fund
Gene ral Sign al Corp orati on, $4.00
Union Oil Company of Cali forn ia, $2.,0
Tota l, El:hi bit XIII

100
100

100

144,6 0.J

JUNE JO , 1969

108, 80,

COY.MON STOCXS

82,76 0

Gene ral Fund

60,60 2

4,90~

C. N. Fli nt Tr ust Fund
bit XI
Oene ral Sign al Corp orati on, J4 ,00, Exhi

200

INVESTMENTS

110,0 66

Tenn eco, Inc., ,,,o~
Union Oil Company or Cali forn ia, $2.,0
West ern Unio n Teleg raph Company,
Tota l, Exhi bit VI

Coit

!dmurtd Clem ent Atkin s on Fund
Gene ral Sign al Corp orati on, $4.00
Union Oil Company of Cali forn ia, $2.,0
Tota l, Exhi bit XIV
Alida 0. Mese rve 'P'und
bit XV
Stand ard Oil Company of Ohi o, 4~, Exhi
Tota l Conv ertib le Pref erred

1,,67 6

$

9,7'1

10,16 0
60,60 2

1,60 0

Amer ican Cyanamid Company

4,,73 2

1,500

,6,4 '0

600

Amer ican Elec tric Power Compa ny, Ino.
Amer ican Home Prod ucts Corp orati on

34,49 ;t

1,40 0

Amer ican Smel ting & Refin ing Company

,,,70 7

J,2, ,

180, ,29

2,727

any
Amer ican Telep hone & Tele grap h Comp
BankAmerica Corp orati on

1'1,6 40

l,092

Beat ri6e Food s Company

39,42 8

Bord en Company-

l,,66 1

Chase Kanh attan Corp orati on
Cinc inna ti Oas & !leo trio Company

36,3 ,,

anyClev eland Elec tric Illuminati ng Comp
Colg·a te Palm oliv& Company

:1,,,,6 6

Colum bia Oas Syste m, Inc,
York
Cons olida ted Ediso n Comp any ot New

17,28 1

Cons olida ted Natu ral Oas Company
Cont inen tal Airl ines , Ino,

B,29 7

Cont inen tal Oil Company

18,1 6,

Coro na Foot hill Lem on Company

30,60 0

9,8!'!0

l,o,o

-----~~!~~~

1,,30

!....~!!~Z~

1,16 0
200

9, 7'1

'

6,785

~::::~~~~2~

'78

706
400

'

10,05 2

---·----213
• 1 ,960,

62,84 3

450

500
•

•

Allie d Chem ical Corp orati on
Amer ican Can Company

1,62 0

!.... .?!~~=

Co et

Shar es

600

102

24,, ,,

1,0,,9 6
,,894
29,80 3

14,1 4'

366

367

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SCBIDUU 1

SCHID!1t! 1

Pece 1'

Paa• 14

KASONIO HOM!S or C!LIPORNIA

MASONIO BOMBS OP C!LI10RNIA

INV!STlraNTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 20

.:rnn 20. 1969

I

1969

Shal'ee
3,7,0
1,000

Co et
Crown Zellerbach Corporation
Donnalle7 (R.R.) & Sons Company

'

131,799
41,395

,00

du Pont (B.I,) de Nemours & Co,, Ino,

83,1'3

600

Duquesne Light Company

20,566

332

!l Paso Natural Gas Company

8,203

Farmers New Jorld Life Insuranoe Company

,3,7'4

1,800
621

8,,
220

1,3'0

Firet National City Corporation
General !leotrio Company
General Public Utili t ies Corporation
General ~elephone & Eleotronioe Corporation

42,006
75,946
6,708
'7,827

800

Qoodrd.ch (B .F,) Company

40

Gult Oil Corporation

300

International Business Machines Corporation

92,59,

230

Interatate Power Company

,,603

600
400
1,800
1,000

Jolinion Service Corporation
Litton Induetriee, Inc,
Lone Star Qa1 Company

36,483
692

12,92'

31,437
42,,87

Marlennan Corporation

39,837

,00

Merck &: COJDpany

42,162

2,0

Mobil Oil Corporation

6,99'

450

National Biaouit Company

20,9,6

2,600

2,3,4

Nationa1 Lead Oompany
Niagara Mohawk Power Oorpo~ation

8,,683
,4,240

Sharee
1, 7'0

300

Northern Kortgage Company

(in liquidation)

t

10,,00

Northern States Power Company

9,732

Ohio Edison Company

26,320

O'l'ens-Corning Fiberglas Corporation

3,,706

Pacific Gae & Electric Company

.46,724

1,169

Pacific Lighting Corporation

34,296

1,120

Panhandle !astern Pipe Line Company

39,79'

400

Parke, Davia & Company

12,,42

258

Penney (J,C,) Company, Inc,

6,036

210

Pennsylvania Power & Light Company

7,1,76

840

Philadelphia Electric Company

2,,4'0

.400

Phill~p•

204

Prentice-Hall, Ino,

7,61'

1,000
500
1,347

Petroleum Company

10,026

Procter & Gamble Company

,0,11,8

Public service Eleotrio and Gas ·company

41,353

21

Ramona Saving s & Loan Association

16,800

10

Ro7al Hotels, Inc.

600
1,1'0

l,'30

San Diego

Gas & llactric Company

1

37,160

.400

Scott Paper Company

10,6,,

900

Sears, Roebuck and Company

,,,234

3,,99

Security Pacific National Bank

97,204

600

Sherwin-Willia.me Company

33,,43

1,000

Signal Companie•, Inc,

32,,13

368

369

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

. PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SCHEDULE l
Page 1 7

SCH!DULl! l
Page 16
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA ,

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE JO, 1969

JUNE JO

Coat

Sharee
Southern California Edison Company

$

I

1969

·--

Permanent Endowment Fund

5 J, 2)1

Cost

Southern Natural Gas Company

'4,lJ7

Southern Pacific Company

17 ,526

4,037

Allied Chemical Corporation

2,527

Standard Oil Company of California

l6J,77l

2,4 00

American Can Company

lJ0,179

909

Standard Oil Company of New Jersey

67,16J

5,J50

American Cyanamid Company

173,602

1 1 044

Teledyne, Inc.

53,llO

2,000

American Electric Po•er Company

1,825

Tenneco, Inc.

48,618

2,400

American Home Products Corporation

1J4,72J

467

Texaco, Inc.

39,286

400

American Smelting & Refining Company

16, 060

200

Texas Utilities Company

9,025

2,495

Ame rican Telephone & Telegraph Com pany

161,883

J,714

Transamerica Corporation

109,936

2,252

BankAmerica Cor poration

105,209

Trans lorld Airlines

15,357

3,000

Beatrice Foods Company

99,184

Union Carbide Corporation

79,786

J,100

Bord.en Company

96,738

Union Electric Company

23,401

4,080

Centra l Ill inois Light Company

90,428

1,440

Union Oil Company of California

76,399

1,642

Cha rter New Yo r k Cor poration

70,_810

1,000

Un ion Pacific Railroad Company

46,042

1,500

Ch ase Manha t tan Corporation

~4.928

788

United States Gypsum Company

62,400

6,500

Cincinnati Gas & El ectric Company

1'5,570

420

United Utilities, Incorporated

11,655

J , 000

Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company

107,2)7

Virginia Electric & Power Company

40,461

2,400

Colgate Palmolive Company

70' 563

Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical Company

31, 426

4,478

Columbia Gas System , Inc.

117, 0 65

1,228

Wells Fargo & Company

J5, 792

J, 71,4

Consolidate d Edison of New Yo rk

1)8' 738

1,741·1/2

Western Bancorporation

66,006

3,640

Consol idated Natura l Gas Company

139,238

149

l,400

Continental Airlines, Inc .

JJ,153

2,<:160

Continental Oil Company

120 , 928

600

JOO
1,700
840

1,067
700

85.411

Wickenden Company
Various st ock Qf undetermined value,
carried. at a nominal value
Total, Exhibit I

4

-------·--~-~!~~~!~~~

$

166,477

78 ,119

370

PROCEEDINGS OP THB

371

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SCHEDULE l
Page 18

SCH!DULE 1
Paae 19

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CAL IFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE JO , 1969

JUNE JO, 1969

Sharee

Coat

Share a

40,178

600

Merck & Company

Crown Zellerbach Corporation

222,111

400

Middle South Utilities , Inc,

Donneiley (R.R.} & Sona Company

4l,J9S

l,112

Mobi l 011 Company

27 ,097

du Pont (E.I.) de Nemours & Co., I nc.

8J,1'J

J,200

Morgan (J,P,) & Company, Inc,

169,229

4,200

Duquesne Light Company

116,672

1,600

National Biscuit Company

74,601

S,800

El Pas o Natural Gas Company

lJ8,9H

6,400

National Lead Company

240,241

2,200

Farmers New World Life Insu ran ce

66,095

s,100

Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation

120,0Sl

J,800

First Hawaiian Bank

lll, 101

J,577

Northern States Power Company

77,669

l,4Jl

First National City Corp orati on

82 ,6J8

!) I 200

Ohio Edison Company

'2,00S

General Electric Company

177,9J6

JOS

Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corporati on

JS ,141

2,822

General Public Utilities Co rporation

49I1J7

200

Pacific Gas & !lectric Company

6,950

2,806

General Telephone & Ele ctronics Corporation

117,612

6

Pacif ii Li ghting Corporation

168

1,200

Goodr ich (B.F.) Company

57,S6J

s,soo

Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company

186 I SS6

J,702

Gulf Oil Corporation

74,977

4,600

Parke, Davis & Company

144, 448

l,SJO

Hartford Fire Insurance Company

48 ,841

J,200

Penney (J.C.) Company, Inc .

77,602

467

Hy-Draft, Inc.

1,401

2,SJJ

Pennsylvania Power & Li&ht Company

89,70J

200

International Business Machines Corporation

62,802

2,JlO

Philadelphia Electric Company

70,841

,,684

Interstate Power Compa ny

98. J62

J,000

Phil l ips Petr ole um Company

81 , 669

2,400

Johns on Service Corpor ati on

S0,S05

l,8J6

Prentice-Hall, Inc,

69,J91

6,600

Laclede Gas Company

17S,J4J

2,418

Procter & Gamble Company

202,701

2,650

Li tton l nduatrhe , Inc.

206,504

4,099

Public Service Company or Colorado

127,069

J,800

Lone St ar Gas Company

92,1S6

1,900

Public Service !lectric and Gas Company

68,328

1,000

Marlennan Corporation

)9 I 861

J,064

San Die&o Oaa & Electric Compan y

75,086

2,000

Crocker National Corporation

6,285
1,000

soo

$

Coat
$

48,107
10,600

129,~4J

372

SCHlDUL! l

SCHEDULE 1
Page 21

Page 20

MASONIC HOMES· OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES O.F CALIFORNIA

INTI:STMENTS

INVE S Tl.!'EN TS

JUNE JO, 1969

J UNE JO

Sharee
3,600

Scott Paper Company

373

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$

Cost

Sharee

94,785

467

I

1969
Coat
1

United Centrifugal Pumps

3,100

Sears, Roebuck and Company

186,769

1 1 800

United States Gypsum Company

1~ 5,S'O

4, 493

Seattle-First NationAl Bank

1137,238

2,834

Virginia Ele ctric & Power Company

106,987

l,200

Security Pacific National Bank

28,,67

l,500

Warn er-Lambe r t Pharmaceut ical Company

63,952

2, 400

Sherwin- Williams Company

1J7,28l

2,07!i

Welle Fargo & Company

91,811

1,600

Signal Companies, Ino.

!51,Jl4

3,960-1/2

Western Bancorporation

146,259

J,081

Southern California Edison Company

lll,!512

25,000

Western Empire Petroleum Company

4,100

Southern Natural Gas Company

1J2,7!53

l,800

Southern Pac Hie Company

52,203

4

Southern Realty Company

ll

125

stock of undetermined value carried at a
nominal value
Total, Exhibit VI

1

i 9,26!!,078

2, 264

Standard Oil Company 0£ California

117,261

1,709

StandaJd Oil Company of New Jersey

136,146

200

Lone Star Gas Company

4,560

3,110

Teledyne, Inc,

147,428

100

Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation

2,217

l,132,

Tenneco, lno,

48.,618

200

Ohio Edis on company

3J788

1 1 037

Texaco, Inc,

41, 70J

200

Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Company

7,048

1,439

Texas Utilities Company

89,276

4,439

Transamerica Corporation

52,766

2,000

Transierra Exploration

700

Trans World Airlines

3,,774

Union Carbide Corporation

235,543

4,JOO
5,460

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund

Total, P!:z:hi bit VII

l6!i,5:'il

9013

Union Oil Company of California

56,161

l,000

Union Pacific Railroad Company

4,,490

l7,6lJ

George F. Brigham and Lau ra E. Brigham
Scholarship Fund

25

Union Electric Company

$

100

Allied Chemical Corporation

3,7J8

100

Lone Star Gae CompanT

2,280

400

Ohio Edison Company

7,577

Total, Exhibi t VIII

$

l J,595

375

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

374

SCH!DULE l

SCHEDOL! l
l'age 22

Page

MASONIC HOMES 01" CALIFORNIA

MASONIC ROMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

JUNE 30, 1969

JONE JO

I

1969

Student• • Loan and Scholars hip Fund

Oeorgs V, and Florence a. Perine
Endowment Fund

Coat

§haree
Co et

Shares
200

Ohio Edison Oompan1
Total, Ex hibi t IX

Duquesne Light Compan1

200

Ohio Edison Oompan1

'

ll,743

,. __ _
_______
4,668
'

200

.blerioan Can Co111pa117

100

.Amerio an Sm.el ting • Re tining Compan1

4,668

36

Bank.tmerioa Corporat ion

2,570

740

Continen tal Oil Compan7

30,307

100

Duqueene Light co111pan7

2,664

100

Lone Star Oas Oompan7

2,280

200

Merck & Co111p1n7

17,220

100

Niagara Mohawk Power Corporat ion

2,217

200

Ohio Edison Compan1

5,264

11,'263

400

Panh&lldle laetern Pipe Line c ompan7

l;J,794

l,200

Signal Companies, Ino,

38,863

'

Harriet 0 , Wadleigh Endowment Annui ty Fund
100

2J

'

2,884
3,763

Total, Exhibit X

0, N. !"lint Trust Fund
~

3,964

304

J.llied Chemical Corporat ion

200

Columbia Gae S7stem, Ino.

,,641

Continen tal 011 Compan7

6,046

franaame rica corporat ion

l,177

14!!
200

Piret Hawaiian Bank

6,082

Yeatern Bano orporatio n

994

500

Niagara Mohawk Power Corporati on

11,0S2

100

Owens-Corning Fibe rgl es Corporat ion

11,451

Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line Compan1

10,572

200

Penne1 (J,C , ) Company, Ino.

4,970

200

San Diego Oas & Electric Compan7

4, 912

253

Southern Realt1 Compan1

399

210

Union Electric Compan1

,,97!!

478

lells Fargo ' Compan1
fotaJ. 1 Exhibit XI

300

------~!~~~
!----~~~~~!

Total, !xhibit XII
l'lorenoe l•therine Burt Trust Fund

---------133, 297
---····----

•
•

'1,475

200

J.llied Chemical Corp oration

200

.Americ1n Telephon e & Talegr1p h Company

200

Jlordtn Compan)"

6,319

200

Columbia Oas System, Ino.

6,,71

500

Duquesne Light Compan,

17,683

200

11 P110 Natural Oas CompllJl7

4,6.),

13,8-''

381

GRAND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA
PROC EEDI NGS OP THB

380

SCHIDULI 2
Page 3

PURPOSES
STATEMENTS OP RESERVES POR SPECIAL
1968
POR THI Yl!!ARS ENDED JUNE JO, 1969 AND

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE
smou nts assig ned by resid ents
Thia reser Te is cred ited with
life
inclu ding proce eds from pens ions, tor
ot the Deco to Home on admi aeion ,
used
is
ve
reser
The
te,
esta
real
insur ance poli cies , and sale or
Deco to Home.
the bene tit or the resid ents or the
1968
1969

P!COTO RESERVE
nt• to be uaed for the

bene fit ot the Deoo to Home,
Bala nce, begin ning of year

Incre ases :
Be ques ts
Oain on sale of se curit ies
c, N. Flin t Trus t Fund incom e,
Exhi bit XI
•
Georg e w. and Flore nce O. Perin
Endowment Fund incom e, !xhi bit IX
Cont ribut ions

Net incre ase
Bala noe, end or year , Exhi bit V

1968

$1,70 0,445

$1,51 6,18J

142, 20,
16,14 1

191,2 27

11,80 4

'

12,50 1
803

824
89

Decr eases :
bit II,
Tran sfers to Gene ral Fund , Exhi
to r ei mbur se for oper ating expe nses
or Deco to HomeSpec ial bene fits to resid ents
Orand Lodg e trips t o Deca to duri~
a nnual comm unica tions
Repla ceme nts or equip ment
Tran sfer to Prop erty Fund , Exh ibit

1969

'

IV

1,921

------------52
206,4
63 ----171,0
--------- ----------

'

'

7,446

'
'
---------- ---------' ----' -----.. --------_________
' ----' ----- ----' ------------9,160

J,667

lJ,22 9

22,38 9
2,566

11,11 3
·11,0 77

24,95 5

22,19 0

146,1 08

184,2 62

$1,8 46,5 5)

$1,70 0,445

$

MASONIC HOM!S or CALIFORNIA
PURPOSES
STATlM'.!NTS or R!SERV!S FOR SPECIAL
1968
roR TH? J!ARS !HOED JUN! 30. 1969 AND

)ilSONIC HOMES OP CALIFORNIA

Thie reser T• is cred ited with amou

SCHEDULE 2
Page 4

•····•···• •••c• • ••••

etate aent s
The accom pany ing note s to finan oial
ment • ..
are an integ ral part or these state

,1,26 4,85 2

Bala nce, begin ning or year
Incre ases :
of the
Asse ts aa1ig ned by reaid enta incl
uding
Deco to Home on admi ssion ,
proce eds from sale of real esta te,
and !rom life insur ance polic ies
Income from pens ions assig ned by(Note S)
resid ents or the Deco to Home
net
Qain on sale of seau riti ee,ente
Acco unts of de ceaee d reeid

It•

Decr eases :
bit
Tran sfers to Gene ral Pund , Exhi
To reimb urse f or oper ating expe nses
of Deco to Hoine Month ly gran ts to resid ents
Fune r al s
Insur ance and othe r

'

. 273,7.31

,1,07 6,84 9

241,4 37

'

315,3 90

lJ,46 6

18,09 5

___
_.._____
--------- --------22
574,9
$ 287,1 97
----------

'

'

45,57 4
5,963
9,204

,7 I 571

____
..'_____4,719
9,239

-----1 $
----60,74
$

An amount equi valen t to assig ned
pens ion• recei ved from reeid ents ,
·
eee above . ·

Net inore aee
Bala noe, end o! 7ear , Exhi bit V

71, 529

315, J90

'

60,74 1

$

3S6,9 19

--------- --------OJ
18S,O
$ 226,4 56
--------- --------$1,49 1,JOB $1,26 4,8 52

'

..... ..... . ····== ·····

state ment s
The acoom panyi ng no tes to finan cial
nt s.
ere an integ ral pert or these s t ateme

SCREDULJ: 3

SCHIOULI!: 2

)µSONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

Page 5

STATEMXNT OF EXPENSES

MASO NIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUN! JO, 1969 ANO 1968

STATEWENT S OF RESERVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSIS
FOR THE YEARS ENDED JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968
COVINA ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
1969

-1..2.§..L

Balance, beginning of year

$ 7,604

$5,,92

Add - Contribu tions
Deduct - Transfer t o General Fund,
Exhibit Il, to reimburoe for
entertain ment expense of Covina Home

$10,71)

$9,705

9' ,61

7 ,69J

s 1,152
s 8,756

$2. 012

$ 3,785

$5,657

Net increase
Balance, end o f year, Exhib it V

:e•····· .......

$7,604

pECOTO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
Balance, beginning of year
Add - Contribu tions
Deduct - Transfer to General Fund,
Exhibit II, to reimburse for
entertain ment expense or Oecoto Home
Net decrease
5alance , end o l year, Exhibit V

383

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEED INGS OP THE

382

------J,265 $J,565
$

4 ,686

5,457

1,421

U,872

s 2,J64

SJ, 785

$

······*

The accompan ying notes to financial statemen t •
are an integral part of these statemen ts.

Decoto Home:
Residents ' maintenan ce
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transport ation
Allowanc es, etc, to residente
Ad111inist rative
Other
Covina Home:
Residents • maintenan c e
Hospital and medical
7arm and grounds
Plant and transport ation
Camp naintenan ce
Allowan ces, etc. to residents
Adminie trative
Educatio nal and epec1•1 developm ent
Other
Out81de relier
Administ rative and general :
Grand Lodge - secretar ial and
other servi ces
!ndowmen t Fund expe~ses
Of fioe salaries
Field investiga tions
Inveetme nt counsel fee
Office s upplies and printing
Auditing servi oee
Legal fees in connectio n with
bequests
Pension and other payroll costs
Grand Lodge trip to Decoto
Trustees ' expenses
Securitie s safekeepi ng
Survey or Decoto propert7
Other

'

1966

Increase
(Decrease )

360,116
721,6.54 '
:n,718
12 5 ,269
72,2.54
2.59 , 0 2J

J64,415
614 ,666
34,999
123,374
84,01
268, 439

$( 24,299)
106 ,988
(J , 281 )
1,695
(12,1 77 )
(9,416)

----~Z!~~~

__ ::Z!Z~~

' 75,27)

142,1194 $
15,482
2J,041
77 ,198
14, J J2
17,6JO
65,270
7,502
24,829

'

159,821
lJ,590
24,0lJ
83,950
21,250
27,916
74,862

$(.16,927)

l(~~~!

(6, 752
(6,918
(1 0,286
(9, 592
7, §02
24,829

- -------- -----·----------$ 388,178
' 40,,402 ~~:?!!!: >
---------- --------- ' (2,383)

--------

24,000
20,071
25,014
1 5 ,JlJ
8,181
6,074
4,250

24,000 '
27,290
lJ,280
8,400
4,652
4,2.50

5,462
9,084
J,667
3,.512
l,2 00
l0,8J6
8,0J7

7,61,
8,607

3,753

1,200

' -

(20,071)
2,276
(2,0JJ)
219
(1,422)
2,is:i
l477)
(J,667)
241

(10 1 8J6)

----~!~?1 ----------

--~!!~~~)

144,701

$(3',279)

$2,087 ,019 $2,066,6J 2

$ 20,387

'

total, Exhibit III

1969

109,422 $

C •~=••••z•

c•••••••• • ••••••••

The accompaitY ing notes \o financia l statemen ts
are an integral part or this statemen t.

385

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCE EDINGS OP THE

384

MASONIC ROJa:S OF CALIFORNIA
5. · Reserv es for Specia l Purpos es
s
The Truste es of Masonic Romes have establ ished variou
') to which are
specia l reserv es (se e Schedu le 2, pages l throug h
lly ere used
Added gifts, beque sts, and other amount s which genera

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATE\BNT3
JUNE 30

l,

I

1969

than direct
at the direct ion or the Truste es tor purpos es other
riated a
operat inr expens es. In 1969, the Truste es have approp
these reserv es,
portio n of the net gain on sale or securi ties to
ed in the asse ts
The assets repres ented b7 these reserv es are includ

Basie of Accoun ting
oaeh
The fi nanc ial statem ents are stated on a in.odiri ed
and expens es
basis or accoun ting, Unde r this method revenu es
genera ll7 are recogn ized at the time of receip t or

paymen t or cash.

ot the Genera l Fund,
2.

Invest ments
at cost,
Investm ents in seouri ties purcha sed are record ed
ed at approx imate
Securi ties receiv ed b7 gift or beques t are record

6.

al
Land, buildi ngs, and equipm ent are record ed at origin
ons which repres ent
cost and no depreo iation is provid e d tor, Additi

market value at the date receiv ed.

3.

Proper ty

replace ments of proper t7 items are charge d to expens

e,

Notes Receiv able
Notes receiv able arise from the sale or real estate
of the Home
assign ed to Masoni c Homes of Califo rni a b7 res idente

7.

or beques ts b7
at Decoto and from real estate recei ve d as gifts
the Homes or the Perman ent Endowment Fund.

Pensio n Plan

all full-ti

coveri ng
The Masoni c Homes have establ ished a pensio n plan
year was
me employ ees, The total pensio n ~xpense $or the

$,9,52 0.

All prior servic e and curren t servic e coats have

been

funded .

4, Othe r Ass e ts
real
Other assets consis t or life insura nce polici es,
or receiv ed as
estate and minera l rights assign ed to Masoni c Homes
These assets are record ed at the nomina l value
tor accou ntabil it7, Paymen ts by Mas onic Romes ot

gifts or beque sts,
of $1 each

obliga tions ot the assignors secure d by these assets
the nomina l value ,

are added to

8,

nts
Change in Accoun ting tor Penaio ns Assign ed by Reside
In 1969, the Masoni c Homes began record ing as income
reside nts ot the
those amount s re ceived from pensio ns assign ed by
ed direct ly
Deooto Home . Prior to 1969, these amount s were record
in 196S, the
in the fund balanc es, Had this proced ure been used
been reduce d to
report ed excess or expens es of $4'.l2,S4S would have
d to retlao t
$117,4 ,8, The 1968 statem ents have not been restate
this chanre .

386
9.

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

387

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

Commitments tor Icprovemente
The Masonic Homes have oontraoted tor improvement• ot
approximately $757,000 to the Covina Home,

ARTHUR ANDERSEN &

At June 30 1 1969, none

Co.

SAN FRANCISCO, C.U.tl'ORNlA

or thia amount had been expended,

Subs equent to year-end, the

Trueteea approved the tranerer or $700,000 trom the General Fund
to the Reserve ror Additions and Replacements,
To the Trustees,
California Masonic Memorial Temple:
We have examined the statement of assets, liabilities end
fun d bal an ce of California Mas onic Memori al Temple (a California
corporation, not tor profit) as of June JO, 1969, and the related
statement or cash revenues and expens e s for the year then ended.

Our

examination was made i n accordance with generally ac cepted auditing
standards, and accordingly included s uch tests or the a ccounting
records and such othe r auditing procedures as we considered necessary
in the c ir cumstan ces.

Th e financial statements for 1968, which are

presented for comparative purposes, were examined and r eported on by
other public acco untants.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements present
fairly the assets, liabilities and fund balance of California Masonic
Memorial Temple as of June JO, 1969, and the cash revenues and expenses
for the year then ended, on a ~asis consistent with that of the
preceding ;year.

September 10, 1969

388

389

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXHI BIT II

EXHIBIT I

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

STATEMENT OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

STATEME NT OF CASH REVEN UES AND EXPENSES

JUNE 30, 1969 AND 1968

FOR THE YEARS ENDE D JUNE JO, 1969 AND 1968
1969

1968

-1968

1969
CASH
REAL ES TATE TAX REFUND DUE
INVESTMENTS IN BONDS, at cost (approximate
quoted market $152,000 in 1969, and
$59,063 in 1968)
PROPERTY, at cost (Note 2);
TempleLand
Building and building equipment
Furnishings
Other prope!'ty
Less - Accumulated depreciation
PREPAID INSURANCE
OTHER ASSETS (Note 3)

! ___ :~:!~~: !. __ ::~!?~~
$

$

lJ,400

----------- --------·--

$

7J4,J04
5,224,539

$

7J4,J04
5,224,539

----~:~!~~~ ----~:~!~~?

$ 6' 177' 345
313,217
$ 6,490,562
725,J7l

-----------

$ 6 ,175,810
JlJ,217
$ 6,489,027
640,792

--$ .. ----- --5,765,191 ;-;:;;40:235

----------...
----------$
3, 532 $
J,477
----------$
1 ----------$
1
$ 6,067,575 i-6:0;;;;3;1

$

1,628

------------

$ 7;076,258

$
2,12J
..................
__ _
$ 7,010,58 4
6 5 ,674

-----~~!~~~ $-7;676:258

$ 7,129,713
Ex cess of .revenues (expenses)Accumulated to June JO, 1968
Current year (Exhibit 2)

-------$248,69J $2 29,05J

OPERATING EXPENSES1
Sa l aries end payroll expense
Utilities end aervicea
Maintenance
Insuran ce
Property taxes
Depreciation (No t e 2)
Legal and ac counting
Stationery and postag e
Expenses of other r e el estate,
including depreciation of $21,590
in 1969, and $1 7 ,992 in 1968
(Note 2)
Miscellaneous

Operating income (loss)

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, primarily withholding
taxes
FUND BALANCE:
ContributionsAccumulate d to June JO, 1968
Received during year (Note 4)

REVENUES:
Rent and other ch arges to t he public $107,945 $10J, 375.
Rent of garage
7J,06 5
82, 83 5
24,000 .
Rent or space to Grand Lodge
24,000
Rent or other real estate
33,91J _._ 28,61J
____ .....

$(1,033,030) $(1,016,3 15 )
(30,736)
(16, 715 )
----~-----$(1,063,766) $(1,033,03 0 )

Total fund balance

-----------

OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE):
Divide n ds received on stocks
Interest received on~
Bank deposits
Bonds, net or pur chased inte.rest
Interest exp en se
6ain on sales ~f securities

CONTRIBUTION TO MASON I C HOMES
OF CALIFORNIA
Excess or revenues
{expenses)

... -------

--------

$ %,62J $ 54,374
J2,240
Jl,178
7 , 625
J '749
4, 0 26 .
4, 247
72,248
62,490
6J,077
63,018
975
975
811
1,257

J6,924
J,J40

28,165
2,187

$274, 013

$255,516

$

$

-------- --------

$

4 ,57 0
9,770
5,JOO

$ 19,640
$

2,249
l , 0 62
(J, 876)
( 221)
9,758
59
( 44 6 )

8 , 7 59
l , 15J

--------

$ 1 8, 497

--------------- -------$(25 ,320) $(26,46J) $ 1 , 14J
-------- --- ... -- .... -------743

$

( 7 4J )

1,106
4,580
(12.8)
13, 447

2, 06 6
(J ' 168)
128
(1 3 ,447}

$(20,7J6) $.(6,715)

$ (14, 0 21 )

3,17 2
l,412

(10,000)

(10,000)

$(30,7J6) $( 16,715 )

.

~

The accompanying notes to financial statement·s
are an integral part of this statement.

Incre a se
( De crease )

The accompanying notes to fi n ancial statements
are an integral pert of this state ment.

$ (1 4,021 )

390

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

391

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
~.

Pension Plan
Tha emplo7ees ot the Temple participate in the penaion

NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

plan ot the Grand Lodge which cover• all full-time emplo7eea,

JUNE JO, 1969

Total pension e%pense tor the 7ear waa ,l,7~9 .
l.

Baais of Accounting

coete and current service coats have been tunded,

The financial statements are stated on a modified cash
basis of accounting.

Under this method, revenues and expenses

generally are recognized at the time of receipt or payment of
cash.
2,

Depreciation
Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method
based on the estimated useful lives of the assets,
Other Assets
Other assets consist of two parcels of real esta t e
received by bequest,

These assets are recorded at a nominal

value.
4,

All prior eervice

Contributions Received
Contributions received from The Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State or California and
ihdividuals are s ummarized below.

Unpaid pledges for contributions

appro%imated $20,000 at June JO, 1969.

Contributions from initiates,
at $9 .00 eachReceived from initiates of
the prior year
Rece i ved from initiates of
the current year
Leg~ - Refunds and adjustments
Contributions rrom i ndividuals

1969

1968

$ 6,912

$ 7 ,119

JJ,09J
(J24)
$39,681
13,774

Jl!,979
(41,7)
$45,6 51

!~~~~;~

$65, 674

20 ,o 23

.......

393

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA
PROCEE DINGS OP THE

392

EXHIBIT I

CAUF ORNI A MASONIC FOUN DATI ON AUDI T
''

. ..

"

ARTHU R ANDER SEN &

Co.

:

STATEMEN T OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE
JUNE JO, 1969

.: _,,: ,:._

· $.A)f FR.urc1s co, CAU!"OJ tNIA

• r_

CALI FORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

.~

.

..

-- ..
$ 42,011

CASH

To the Truste es,
Califo rnia Masoni c Founda tion:
le have examin ed the statem ent or assets and fund balance
ation, not for
of Califo rnia Masoni c Founda tion (a Califo rnia corpor
ent of cash
prof.i t) as of June JO, 1969, and the related statem
1969) to
revenu es for the period from incepti on (Janua ry 11,
ule 1) .
June JO, 1969, and the supplem entary statem ent (Sched
lly accepte.d
Our examin ation •as made in accorda nce •1th genera
of the
auditin g standa rds, and accord ingly include d such tests
as •e
accoun ting record s and such other auditin g proce dures
consid ered necess ary in the

presen t

NOTES RECEIVABLE • Stude nt lo ans
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
INVESTMENTS, a t cost:
Certifi cates of deposi t
Bonds ( approxi mate quoted market $201 ,600)
(Schedu le 1 )
Comm on stocks (approx imate quoted marke t
$J2 , 000) (Schedu le l)

es f or the
Founda tion as of June JO, 1969, and the cash revenu
presen ts
period then ended, and the supplem entary statem ent

$

J,JH

$ ~J,000

202,84. J
31,958
$287,80 1
l

$

OTHER ASSETS

l

$JJ7 ,888

········
FUND BALANCE
BALANCE, beginni ng of period
ADD:
Transf ers of assets from other entitie s- y, Califo rnia
Masoni c Club at the Univer sity ~ Berkele
Mas on ic Club ~ Univer sity of Califor nia at Los Angeles
Contri bu t i one

fairly the inform ation set forth therein ,
TOTAL CASH REVENUES FOR THE PERIOD (Exhib it II)
BALANCE, end of period
Septem ber 22, 1969

4, 720

REAL ESTATE {Note J)

circumst~nces,

In our opinio n, the accomp anying financ ial statem ents
fairly the assets and fund balance of Califo rnia Masonic

$

The acc omp anying notes to finan cial stateme nts
are an integra l p~rt or this statem ent.

J04,65J
18,609
20

$J2J,28 2
14,606

........
$3J7 ,888

GRA ND LODGE OP CAL IFO

395

RNI A

PRO CEE DIN GS OP THE

394

SCH!:DULE 1

!XH IBIT Ir
TI ON
CALIFORNIA MA SON IC FO UNDA
INVE STMENTS
JUNE JO, 196 9

Coa t

Fac e Valu e
$20 0,0 00

TION
CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDA

2,00 0

ES
STATEMENT OF CASH REVENU
ION (JANUARY 11, 196 9)
FOR THE PERIOD FROM INCEPT
TO JUNE JO, 196 9

l,ooo

Fed e r al Home Loan Ban k,0 7%,
due Fe bru ary 25, 197
ry Bon ds, 2-1/ 2%,
Uni ted sta tes Tre asu
due March 15, 197 1

$20 0,00 0

1,87 2

ry Bonds , 2-1/ 2%,
Uni ted Sta tes Tre asu
due March 1,, 197 0
Tot al ben ds

971

$20 2,84 J

COMMON STOCKS
REVENUES:
Int ere stabl e
Rec eive d on not es rec eiv
Oth er inte res t
Div iden ds
Mis cell ane ous
Tot al rev enu es

fin anc ial stat eme nts
The acco mpa nyin g not es to thi s s t atem ent .
of
t
par
l
gra
inte
an
are

$12 ,456
1,6 17
$14 ,073
349

J68

Bos ton Fun d, Inc ,

$

5,47 0

Inc .
Fra nkl in Cus todi an Fun ds,
rica
Inv estm ent Company of Ame

7,73 5

1,60 9

325

, In ~.
Nat i on-Wide Sec urit ies Co.
st
Mas sach use tts Inve sto rs Tru

100

Safe way Sto res, Inc ,

2,62 5

ifor nia
Stan dard Oil Company of Cal
Sou ther n Pac ific Company

3,80 1

1,12 8

184

100

$14 ,606

120

56
100

2,00 6

5J11 2

J,60 0

Tot al common stoc ks

$ Jl,9 58

Tot al in'v estm ents

$2J 4,80 1

PRO CEE DING S OP THE

396

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
TS
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMEN
JUNE JO, 1969

1.

Basi p ot Aoc ount ing
stat ed on a mod ified c ash
The fina ncia l state men ts are
nses
this meth od, reve nues and expe
basi s of acco unti ng. Und er
ent
the time of re ce ipt or paym
gen eral ly are reco gniz ed at
of cash .
ary . 11, 1969 , on
Reve nues rece ived prio r to Janu
t ies have
red from othe r Mas onic enti
sec urit ies and note s tran sfer
t or cash reve nues ,
been refl ecte d in the state men

2.

Purp ose or Foun dati on
ion was esta blis hed on
The Cal ifor nia Maso nic Fou ndat
and
for cha rita ble, edu cati ona l
Janu ary 11, 1969 , prim aril y
thes e
anti cipa ted that inco me from
s cien tifi c purp oses . It is
ent loan s and •oho lars hipa ,
fund s Wil l be used for stud

J.

Real Esta te

Mas

ion has reco rded the
The Cal ifor nia Maso nic Fou ndat
ity of ca lif orn i a at Lo s Ang eles
onic c lubh ouse at the Uni vers

one doll ar, Th e Foun dati on is curr entl y
on its book s at a valu e of
erty . The ma r ket v alue of the
atte mpt ing to sell this prop
$)08 , 000,
prop erty tax asse ssm ent, is
prop erty , baae d on the 1968
on the
club hous e have been reco rded
The expe nses o f ope ratin g the
book s of the Gran d Lodg e,

GRAND LODGE. OP CAL IFOR NIA

397

UNI ON CIT Y, CAL IFO RNI A
RNI A
MA SON IC HOM ES OF CAL IFO
ANN UAL REP ORT
July 1, 1968 to Jun e 30, 1969
-AV ERA GE AGE 82.80 YEA RS
NAM ES OF MEN RES IDE NTS
yea r
•Ind icat es adm issio n duri ng curr ent
Age
tlnd icat es coup les
Tow n
No.
LodQ e
Adm itted
86
Name
......
o
cisc
Fran
San
388
..
........
ct. 10, '61 Parn assu scisc
Ahl born , Geo rge ···-·······O
oFran
San
'67
25,
.
Aug
..
cisc o ......81
Alle n, Arth ur ....... .......
Vict ory ............360 San FranPark
........84
Balw in
660
....
Park
win
Bald
'69
15,
.
Alle n, Milt on• .............. Apr 9, '64 Holl ywo od ..........355 Hol lyw ood ............83
t.
............ 80
And erso n, Alfr ed ·····- ···Oc
Gra nad a ............608 Alh amb ra
And erso n, J. Woo dson..Apr . 27, '64 Rus sian Rive r .... 181 Win dsor ........ ........89
·····M ar. 23, '61
no ..................85
Bac on, Her bert ···-··
'67 Delano .............. ..309 Delaland
........ ........79
Bail ey, Rex ..................... Dec. 5,
Oak
.497
.....
........
ont
Frem
9, '67
Bak er, Wal ter ..............Jun e 13,
eal
ty-S
Ami
'67
o ...... 84
Ban et, J esse ....... ...........July
Roc k .............. ..370 San Fran cisc
....... .........86
land
Oak
61
.....
.......
Oak
2, '59 Live
ram ento .......... 88
Barn es, Will iam ............ July. 27,
67 Was hing ton ........ 20 SacMes
a ................ 69
La
Bate s, Jose ph ....... ....... .. Apr . 17, ''68
407
.....
.......
a
Mes
La
Bay ard, Jose ph• ........ ....Dec 5, '63 Red woo d City ....168 Red woo d City ....79
.......68
Bea n, Ver d .............. ...... Apr.
dsto ck ........ 491 Alam eda .......
····Dec. 19, '60 Wooger
...........78
.......
ger
San
316
....
Bee r, Lesl ie ······· - ·······
.......
.
.....
San
land ................ 88
Ben tley , Les t ................Nov. 19, '64
'63 Dim ond .............. 603 Oak
land ... - ........... 87
Oak
Blae ss, Ern est ....... ....... Sep t. 20,
480
........
hip
t. 7, '65 Fell ows
Ros a .......... 96
ta
San
Both well i. Gar net ........ Sep
57
........
'64 San ta Ros a
o Bea ch ....78
ond
Bro adw eu, Cha rles ......Feb . 12,
Red
328
.......
15, '66 Red ond o .......
cisc o ......82
Fran
San
Broo ks, Law renc e ....... .July. 31,
449
......
'64 Park ..............
cisc o ......80
Fran
San
Butl er, Ken neth ............Dec . 18, '66
354
......
Pres idio ........
Cam pbel l, Cha ries t ......J ane 24, '65 Sou th San
Jun
.
....... .......85
Cam pion, Rich ard .......
Fran cisc o ........ 212 Daly City
Ala med a ....... .......90
215
..
........
ve
Gro
Oak
'68
22,
.
Nov
Spri ngs ......82
Carl son, Geo rge• ....... ...
'65 Palm Spri ngs .... 693 Palm
Carl son, Osc ar ..............July. 12,
407 La Mes a ................80
......
........
a
Mes
La
'66
31,
Car ter, Her bert ............Auge 5, '69 Will iam Rho des
eles ........67
Clem ents , Edm und • ....Jun
Her vey ............ 767 Los Ang
ta Cru z ....... ... 86
San
38
.
.......
z
Cru
ta
San
'67
8,
Coll in, Leo nida s ..........Jun e 2, '62 Haw thor ne ........ 647 Haw thor ne ....... ...88
Com bs, Jero me ............ Sep t.. 12, '60 Con suel o ......... ...325 Esco ndid o ............90
Cov ell, Will iam ............Nov 25, '63 San Dieq uito ...... 775 Card i.ff- by-t heSea ....................88
Crei der, Roy ..................Oct.
eka .................. 86
Eur
552
..
ns
Vire
per
Sem
'60
Croz ier, Alfr ed ............Jun e. 26,
l
Sea
ityAm
cisc o ......82
Cry stal, Dav id ..............Mar 11, '64
Roc k ....... ....- ...370 San Fran
..............91
eda
Alam
215
.
.......
ve
Gro
'67 Oak
..............76
City
Daly
Dalt on, Jam es ................Augt.. 2,
454
.......
.......
'68 Cro cker
Dav ies, Fred rick • ........Sep 3, '59
·····- ······· 87
z
41
tine
.....
Mar
.......
z
Mar tine
Dea rdor ff, Cha rles ........Dec. 7,
........... -.76
a
den
Pasa
13, '68 San Pasq ual ..... .452 San Clem ente ...... 85
Den nis, Spil iotis ....... ... Sep t. 10,
671
....
ente
Clem
San
'66
Dier k.se n, Will iam ........Jan.e 29, '65 Mou nt Mor iah .. 44 San Fran cisc o ......84
Driv er1 Jose ph ..............Jun . 30, '58 Mornin&t Star .... 68 Stoc kton ···-·········86
Du B01s, And rew ........... Apr 19, '60 Vall ejo
487 Vall ejo .................. 72
Dza roog ian, Mar sob ....May. 12,
709
San Lore nzo ···-·· ·74
.......
.......
enzo
Lor
Ellis , Elon zo ....... ...........Dece 6, '67
37
.......
.......
Yre ka ·-····-······-···84
ard
How
'61
Eva ns, Alfr ed ................Jun 3, '65
den Gate
Gol
r.
.Ma
....
.......
......80
ale
Nat
Ferr aris,
Spe ranz a ........ 30 San Fran cisc o
eal
ty-S
Ami
......88
Fish er, Wil liam ............Mar. 17, '64
Roc k ................370 San Fran cisc o

398

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Name
Admitted
Lod(le
No.
Town
Age
Foley, Eck ......................July 29, '66 Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles ........78
Foulkes, Caradoc• ...... Sept. 24, '68 Arcadia ..............547 Arcadia ................79
Freeman, T. Reed.. .........July 15, '65 ArgonautArgonne .......... 461 San Francisco ......81
Frix, William ···-···········Apr. 25, '68 Van Nuys ···-·····450 Van Nuys ............85
F r ost, Harold ................Nov. 1, '45 Utopia ................537 Los Angeles ........ 79
Gaberman, J acob• ........Feb. 7, '69 Composite ..........639 Los Angeles ... - ...69
Gammon, Rodger ........Sept. 9, '61 Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys ............ 80
Gardner, John ..............Dec. 1, '67 Alta Vista-Mount
Vernon ........... .464 San Francisco ......80
Girard, Lawrence ........Aug. 15, '65 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........79
Gooch, Edmund• .......... Sept. 26, '68 Friendship .......... 210 San Jose ..............74
Goyette, Frank .............. May 25, '66 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ..........83
Guilford, Herbert• ........ Dec. 26, '68 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........85
Haberdier, Oliver ........ Sept. 25, '65 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ..............85
Haley, Michael ..............Nov. 4, '61 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ..........84
Hemming, Frank .......... Oct. 12, '64 Southland .......... 618 Los Angeles ........89
Hendricks, George ......Sept. 26, '59 All States ... ....... 593 Long Beach ........87
Hennings, Sigurdt ........Jan. 6, '67 Riviera ................780 Pacific Palisades ..87
Hermans, Howard ........Oct. 31, '60 Corona ................324 Pasadena ..............79
Hillman, Otto ................July 26, '66 South Pasadena 367 South Pasadena 82
Holloway, Dee ..............J an . 31, '66 Magnolia ............242 Santa Barbara ....78
Hoopes, Wilmer• ..........July 3, '68 Palo Alto ·······-···346 Palo Alto ..............77
Howard, Otto ................July 6, '62 California ... .. ..... 1 San Francisco ...... 84
Hyde, Harry .................. Fe b. 6, '67 Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ···---.81
Jesse, Bur rell• ..............Feb. 25, '69 Taft ...................... 516 Taft ...................... 86
J ackson, Elwellt ..........June 7, '62 Henry Knox ...... 662 Los Angeles ........82
Johnstone, Carlos• t .... Aug. 16, '68 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco ...... 81
Johansen, Ingvald* ...... Nov. 14, '68 Dimond ..............603 Oakland ·······-·······88
Keller, Oscart ................May 20, '68 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........371 Honolulu ..............81
Kempf, William ········---Dec. 1, '61 Doric ···-···············216 San Francisco ......71
Kirk, Howard• .............. Apr. 2, '69 George E. Tutt .... 722 Los Gatos ............79
Lepetich, Steve ............July 22, '63 Maricopa ............434 Maricopa ..............88
Lamb, James• ..............Sept. 5, '68 Vermont
Square ............515 Inglewood ............80
McClary, Leslie•t ........ Sept. 16, '68 Lomita ................644 Lomita ..................75
McConne ll, Riley ..........May 14, '63 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........77
McGraw, John ..............June 27, '58 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........89
McNab, James• ............ Nov. 19, '68 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ................85
Martin, Ernest ·········-·····Jan. 11, '62 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ................ 89
Martinsen, Thomas ...... Nov. 19, '57 Tehachapi .......... 313 Tehachapi ............79
Mattern, John ............ ....De c. 12, '66 Howard .............. 37 Yreka ....................89
Mattson, Me lbert ..........Au g. 29, '66 Concord .............. 117 Sacramento ..........85
Mendelson, Victor ........Jan. 12, '66 Pacific ................ 136 San Francisco ......83
Metca lfe, William• ......Jan. 23, '69 Yucca Valley .... 802 Yucca Valley ...... 86
Miller , William• ............Feb. 6, '69 Amity-Seal
Rock ................ 370 Sa n Francisco ......83
Nelson1 George• ............Feb. 10, '69 Dimond .............. 603 Oakland ................85
NewarK, Gray ................Oct. 9, '64 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno .................. 90
Niebling, William ........Aug. 27, '58 Capital City ......499 Sacramento ..........91
Nordlof, George• .......... Apr. 7, '69 Buena Park ........357 Buena Park ···-···68
Off, John W..... ·- ··-········.Nov. 5, '62 Southern
California ......278 Los Angeles ........115
Ollson, Lester .............. Aug. 24, '59 Berkeley ............363 Berkeley ···-··········82
Olson, Emil•t ................ Dec. 19, '68 La Cumbre ........642 Santa Barbara ....77
Pawloski, Cha rles ..........F eb. 16, '65 Glassel Park ......605 Los Angeles ........89
Peirce, Chariest ............May 28, '68 Cahuenga ..........513 Hollywood ..........82
Pettit, Obe ···········-·······June 13, '67 East Gate .......... 290 Los Angeles ···-···68
Posch, Paul ·-··- ·············Nov. 18, '65 Hermann ..........••127 San Francisco ...-.91

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

399

Name
Admitted
Lod(le
No .
Town
Age
Potter, Jack .................... Oct. 24, '67 Needles ..............326 Needles ................77
Ridley, Alvin ................. .Feb. l, '62 East Bay ............489 Orinda ·····-···········99
Roberts, Owent ............ Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................86
Roche, George ................ J an. 18, '57 South Pasadena 367 South Pasadena ..94
Rodgers, Harry• ............J a n. 11, '69 Los Altos ............712 Los Altos ............... 80
Roehm, Charlest .......... Aug. 5, '66 Kit Carson ..........734 Sacramento ..........87
Rogers, Ellery ..............Sept. 14, '65 Pe rris ............... .411 Perris ....................78
Ross, Fra nklin* ............ Mar. 11, '69 Berkeley ............ 363 Berkeley ·········-···95
Rosenzweig, Sam ..........Jan. 6, '60 ArgonautArgonne ......... .461 San Francisco ......73
Samuel, Ford•t ..............J an. 6, '69 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda .............. 82
Schell, Frank• ..............Aug. 12, '68 Far West ............ 673 San Francisco ......85
Schroder, John ..............Mar . 24, '61 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ......92
Scott, H arryt ................May 8, '68 La Cumbre ........ 642 Santa Barbara ....76
Scott, John .................... May 9, '63 Culve r City ........ 467 Culver City ..........87
Scrivne r, Chester ........Mar. 19, '65 Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys ............91
Short, Benjamin ..........Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside .......... 577 Los Angeles ........ 85
Specht, Frank ................May 9, '60 Crocker ..............454 Daly City ............82
Steigelman, Warrent ....Mar. 19, '60 Bellflower .......... 523 Bellflower ............86
Stewart, Charles .......... Apr. 5, '61 San Juan ............ 732 Fair Oaks ..............88
Stites, Joseph ................ Sept. 17, '63 Live Oak ............ 61 Oa kla nd ................90
Sulli van, J ames ..............Oct. 2, '63 F remont .............. 497 Oa kland ................81
Swa nson, George ..........Mar. 15, '62 Needles .............. 326 Needle s ................ 88
Taforo, Charies t ..........Nov. 18, '57 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .............. .. 82
Taylor, Cary• ............. _.Aug. 5, '68 Corinthian .......... 9 Yuba City ............ 84
Taylor, Myront ............. Dec. 28, '64 South P ark ........563 Hawthorne .......... 73
Townson, James ............ Feb. 14, '62 Sta nislaus ..........206 Modesto ................94
Walker, William ............May 10, '67 Menlo P ark ........ 651 Menlo Park .......... 91
Warden. Robert ............J une 1, '56 Marin ..................191 San Rafael ............ 90
Webber, Lewis ..............July 7, '67 Atascadero ....... .493 Atascadero ..........87
Weinberg, Harryt ···-···Apr. 9, '62 Doric .................... 216 San Francisco ...... 83
Wenner, H enry• ............ May 15, '69 Alexandria ........ 531 San Francisco ......70
Wilcox, George ............ July 29, '66 Guardian ............596 South Gate ..........89
Wilkinson, Charles• ....June 4, '69 Consu elo ............325 Escondido ............85
Wilson, Charles•t ........June 26, '69 K erman ............. .420 Kerman ................84
Wilson, Sidney ..............Jan. 6, '62 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda ..............82
Wold, Frederickt .......... Jan. 24, '66 Benicia ................ 5 Benicia .................. 69
Woodall, Jack ................Nov. 8, '67 Hi ghland Pa rk .. 382 Los Angeles ........74
Woodward, Horace•t .. Aug. 27, '68 Presidio .............. 354 San F rancisco ......88
Wurs lin. Theodore ........May 24, '68 Elk Grove ..........173 Elk Grove ........... 92
Yates, Eddie ..................Feb. 14, '68 West
Los Angeles ....373 Los Angeles ........89
MEN ADMITTED JULY l, 1968 TO JUNE 30, 1969
AVERAGE AGE 79.10 YEARS
T own
Admitted
Lodge
No.

A(le
Name
Allen, Milton ................Apr. 15, '69 Baldwin Park .... 660 Baldwin Park ... _.84
Bayard, Joseph ·······-·····De c. 17, '68 La Mesa .............. 407 La Mesa ................68
Carlson, George ............Nov. 22, '68 Oa k Grove .......... 215 Alameda ..............89
Clements, Edmund ......June 5, '69 William Rhodes
Hervey ............767 Los Angeles ........ 67
Davies, Fredrick ..........Sept. 3, 68 Croc ker ............. .454 Da ly City .............. 75
Dennis, Spiliotis ........ Sept. 13, '68 San P asqual ......452 Pasade na ..............75
Foulkes, Caradoc ........ Sept. 24, '68 Arcadia .............. 547 Arcadia ................78
Gardner, Howard ........Nov. 15, '68 Bear Mounta in .. 76 Angels Camp ...... 64
Gaberman, Jacob ..........Feb. 7, '69 Composite .......... 639 Los Angeles ........ 68
Gooch, Edmund ..........Sept. 26, '68 Friendship ........210 San Jose ..............74
Guilford, Herbert ..........Dec. 26, '68 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........85
Hoopes, Wilmer ............July 3, '68 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ..............76
Janow, Louis ................ Aug. 22, '68 Lincoln ............. .470 San Francisco ...... 76
Johnstone, Carlos ........Aug. 16, '68 Paul Revere ...... 462 San Francisco ......80

400

401

PROCEEDINGS OP THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Name
Admitted
Johansen, lngvald ........Nov. 14, '68 Dimond ______________ 603 Oakland --··----···--·~87
Jesse, Burrell •...............Feb. 25, '69 Taft ______________________ 516 Taft ------···-----···--····-85
Kirk, Howard ·----····------·Apr. 2, '69 George E. Tutt .. 722 Los Gatos -·-----···--78
Lamb, James ................Sept. 5, '68 Vermont
Square ____________515 Inglewood -----··----.79
McClary, Leslie ............Sept. 16, '68 Lomita ----·-------·--·644 Lomita --···--·-···------75
McNab, James ..............Nov. 19, '68 Brooklyn ............225 Oakland ---··-····-···--84
Metcalfe, William ________ Jan. 23, '69 Yucca Valley .... 802 Yucca Valley ......85
Miller, William ..............Feb. 6, 69 Amity-Seal
Rock ................370 San Francisco ......83
Nelson, George ..............Feb. 10, '69 Dimond .............. 603 Oakland ····--··-··---85
Nordlof, George ............ Apr. 7, '69 Buena Park ______357 Buena Park ........68
Olson, Emil ..................Dec. 19, '68 La Cumbre ........ 642 Santa Barbara ....76
Rodgers, Harry ..............Jan. 11, '69 Los Altos ............712 Los Altos ..............80
Ross, Franklin ..............Mar. 11, '69 Berkeley -··-······--363 Berkeley ---····-------95
Samuel, Ford -----------···-···Jan. 6, '69 Oak Grove ........215 Alameda --------------82
Schell, Frank ................ Aug. 12, '68 Far West ____________ 673 San Francisco ......84
Taylor, Cary .................. Aug. 5, '68 Corinthian ----··-9 Marysville ·----··-----83
Thompson, Chester .... Apr. 10, '69 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ____________79
Wilkinson, Charles ......June 4, '69 Consuelo ---·---·····325 Escondido ............85
Wenner, Henry ______________May 15, '69 Alexandria ........ 531 San Francisco ......70
Wilson, Charles ............June 26, '69 Kerman -·-·······--··420 Kerman ................84
Woodward, Horace ......Aug. 27, '68 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco ......84

UNION CITY, CALIFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
ANNUAL REPORT
JULY I. 1968 TO JUNE 30, 1969

WITHDRAWN
Name
Date
Lodf:fe
No.
Town
Age
McGinley, Raymond.... Aug. 9, '68 S. W. Hackett .... 574 San Diego ............69
Thompson, Chester ......Apr. 11, '69 Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ............79
Varnum, Raymond ...... Feb. 6, '69 Alta Vista-Mount
Vernon ........... .464 San Francisco ......65
MEN DECEASED JULY l, 1968 TO JUNE 30. 1969
AVERAGE AGE 83.64 YEARS
Town
Age
Name
Date
Lod>1e
No.
Axelson, Edwin ............Feb. 6, '69 Alpha ····-·····-····-·.431 Richmond ............78
Brown, Frederick ........Aug. 12, '68 Eucalyptus ........ 243 Hayward ·-----·-···-··89
Domenigoni, Valentine Feb. 22, '69 San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ........89
Eckstein, Joseph .......... Sept. 14, '68 ArgonautArgonne ..........461 San Francisco ......83
Fullalove, Edward ...... June 3, '69 Park ....................449 San Francisco ......85
Gardner, Howard ........Mar. 27, '69 Bear Mountain .. 76 Angels Camp ...... 64
Godfrey, Henry ............Apr. 23, '69 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda .............. 98
Hammond, Cuyler ........ Feb. 18, '69 Golden State ....358 Los Angeles ........82
Hooper, Frederick ........May 23, '69 La Jolla .............. 518 La Jolla ..............89
Hume, Harry ····-···-··-····--Dec. 8, '68 America ........... .475 Anaheim ..............88
Jacobs, Walter ..............Aug. 11, '68 King Solomon's
Seaport ..........260 San Francisco ......86
Janow, Louis ..................Jan. 14, '69 Lincoln ................470 San Francisco ......76
Johnson, Russell ..........Aug. 10, '68 Justice ................549 San Francisco ......77
Kronberg, Arthur ........Aug. 13, '68 Garvanza ........... .492 Los Angeles ........ 81
North
Langstaff, Edward ...... Sept. 1, '68 Warren G.
Harding ..............579 Sacramento ..........76
Lankford, Robert ........June 7, '69 Rosemead ..........702 Rosemead ............58
Logan, James ................June 27, 69 La Fayette ..........126 Sebastopol ............88
McKinlay, Joseph ........ Oct. 2, '68 Forest Hill ........534 San Francisco ......67
Miller, James ................May 4, '69 Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ........ 81
Oakley, Charles ..........Se pt. 14, ' 68 Nicolaus ............129 Wheatland ----·-····92
Schrock, Aaron ............ Apr. 11, '69 Santa Maria ......580 Ramona ................ 97
Slater, Frank ................May 11, '69 Union -----------······· 58 Sacramento ........ 82
Stewart, James ............Mar. 24, '69 Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ........98
Street, Alvin ..................Feb. 27, '69 .P asadena ............272 Pasadena .............. 96
Sutherland, William ....Oct. 4, '68 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach ..91

NAMES OF WOMEN RESIDENTS-AVERAGE AGE 84 YEARS
•Indicates admission during current year
tindicates couples
Town
Age
Lod>1e
N o.
Name
Admitted
Abbott, Sarah ··········-·--·Mar. 10, '60 Mizpah ................378 Los Angeles ........ 83
Allen, Helena ··········----·-June 29, '65 Mission ········----····169 San Francisco ...... 88
Allen, Maude ···-·-····------Aug. 22, '58 Lexington ..........104 El Monte ..............86
---------··--··-··82
Ames, Myra ·······------·····--May 8, '54 Delano ................309 Delano
Anderson, Hattie ..........May 30, '57 Jewel ·····-·----·------374 San Francisco ______95
Andrews, Lela ..............Sept. 2, '58 Friendship __________ 210 San Jose ..............93
Angwin, Hilda ·······-·····Nov. 14, '62 Berkeley ____________363 Berkeley --····--··---·82
Appel, Henrietta ........Aug. 12, '60 Vermont
Square ............515 Inglewood ............83
Huntington
Baker, Winifred .......... Sept. 1, '67 Huntington
Beach --···-----·····-82
Beach ---··-······--380
Barnett, Marie ..............Mar. 21, '63 Acorn ................ ..494 Oakland ................ 80
Willow
Glen
______
676
San
Jose ··--· ...........87
Barstow, Eva ................Jan. 19, '60
Bentley, Maryt ----··--···Nov. 19, '64 Sanger ................ 316 Sanger .................. 66
Bergen, Anna ................ Nov. 28, '60 San FranciscoVictory ............ 360 San Francisco ______94
Beumer, Maria• ............Feb. 13, '69 Alameda .............167 Fremont ---·-··-······--86
Biggar, Effie ..................Apr. 13, '62 Mission ................169 San Francisco ...... 78
Vista-Mount
Biggart, Ada ·····-·--········Mar. 29, '68 Alta
Vernon ___________ .464 San Francisco ......86
Black, Evalita ................July 17, '59 King David's ....209 San Luis Obispo 88
Bloy, Edith ······-·--·········.Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir .......... 297 Dunsmuir ............97
Blum, Lena ....................May 14, '58 San Diego ······---- 35 San Diego ............ 81
Brokaw, Leona .............. Apr. 17, '58 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ..................88
Brown, Jean ..................Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa ..........89
Browne, Rachel ....... .'....June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno .................. 80
Burmester, Cora• ..........Jan. 27, '69 Petaluma ............ 180 Petaluma ............ 84
Caffrey, Marie ···-·········Mar. 20, '63 Abell -···---···--···-· ·146 Ukiah ....................90
Campbell, Alice ............ Oct. 25, '63 Lebanon ............. .495 San Francisco ...... 82
Campbell, Blanche ......Nov. 29, '67 King Solomon's
Seaport .......... 260 San Francisco ...... 88
Campbell, Norvat ........Jan. 18, '66 Presidio ..............35 4 San Francisco ......74
Carroll, Frances .......... Aug. 1, '60 Alameda ............167 Fremont ................ 84
Carswell, Adella ............Dec. 31, 58 La Fayette .......... 126 Sebastopol .......... 96
Caspare, Flora .............. Aug. 11, '67 Table Mountain 124 Paradise ..............78
Castle, Ollie ·----·-··········Nov. 26, '61 S. W. Hackett .... 574 Sa n Diego ............ 84
Cheney, Hazel ..............Aug. 15, '51 Washington-------- 20 Sacrament o .......... 83
Christian, Nellie ..........Aug. 21, '64 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............84
Cor bin, Elsa ....................May 31, '61 Clovis ·-········--···-·.417 Clovis .................... 85
Crawshaw, Della .......... Apr. 30, '64 Willow Glen ...... 676 San Jose ................ 79
Darnell, Dorothea• ......July 8, '68 Downey .............. 220 Downey ................76
Davis, V. Mae ................July 10, '62 Vermont
Square ............515 Inglewood ............ 86
Davies, Selma• ·--···-·······Jan. 10, '69 Moneta -----------····-405 Los Angeles ........79
De France, Eva• ............Apr. 2, '69 York ······-·-----·····-.423 Huntington
Park .................. 76
De Ruchie, Irma ..........June 15, '66 Fellowship ....... .480 Oakland ···-··-·-·······80
De Witt, Edith ..............Apr. 26, '68 Kit Carson ........734 Sacramento ..........89
Diefenbach, Bertha ......Feb. 20, '62 Solano ................229 Vallejo ..................81
Donaldson, J. Elaine......Feb. 14, '58 Marin ········-····-----191 San Rafael .......... 88
Drysdale, Charlotte ......July 5, '62 San FranciscoVictory ............360 San Francisco ......85

402

403

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.
Lodge
Age
Town
Admitted
Name
Dunbar, Elizabeth ........ Dec. 9, '67 West Adams ......565 Los Angeles ........88
Dunn, Eleanor ..............Feb. 9, '62 Henry S .Orme ..458 Los Angeles ........76
Eason, Eunice ................ Dec. 30, '67 Illinoistown ..... . 51 Colfax ..................87
Eastman, Leona ............Mar. 7, '63 Solano ................ 229 Vallejo ..................80
Edwardes, Lina ............ May 23, '50 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 87
Elliott, Maud ................June 15, '48 Beverly Hills .... 528 Beverly Hills ...... 91
Ely, Eva .......................... Aug. 24, '55 Buckeye .............. 195 Winters ................ 86
Estes, Lucy• ..................Dec. 4, '68 Rialto .................. 582 Rialto ....................89
Fallahay, Martha* ........July 31, '68 El Segundo ........ 507 El Segundo .......... 75
Fanning, Jennie ............Nov. 4, '57 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................89
Farrar, Gertrude ..........June 4, '65 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........86
Feiling, Idabel ..............F eb. 3, '59 Mountain View .. 194 Mountain View ..88
Flemming, Thora ..........Jan. 3, '58 Mendocino ........ 179 Mendocino .......... 87
Forgie, Helene ..............Feb. 25, ' 63 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ..............85
Foster, Mary ..................Feb. 15, '63 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................ 87
Fraze', Constance• ........Apr. 14, '69 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ....................78
Freulich, Helene ......... July 11, '59 Hollywood ........355 Hollywood .......... 81
Gerhart, Charlotte ...... Aug. 15, '66 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 77
Gilmore, Emma ............F eb. 26, '64 Three Pillars .... 613 Sacramento ........ 77
Gouveia, Nannae• ........Jan. 9, '69 West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ........83
Green, Nina ....................Ma y l 0, '67 Soquel ................ 746 Soquel .................. 74
Grindell, Matilda .......... J an. 13, '64 Eucalyptus ........ 243 Hayward ..............94
Hagemann, Gladys
(Moulthrop) ................ Oct. 1, ' 64 Mission ..............169 San Francisco ....80
Hager, Lillian• ........ ......July 24, '68 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................ 79
Hansen, Grace ........... .... .J a n . 11, '60 Riverbank .......... 459 Riverbank ............ 82
Hare, Violet .................. May 12, '60 Excelsior ............ 166 San Francisco ...... 89
Hawkins, Evelyn .......... Apr. 4, '61 Yerba Buena ......403 Oakland ................ 85
H edburg, Huldah ........ Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ................ 247 Fresno ..................90
Heintz, Mary .................. May 20, '66 North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ............78
Helmore, Ada ................ Oct. 9, '59 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley .......... 93
Hennings. Mabel t
<Hascall) ·········-···········Oct. 3, '60 Charity ..............362 Campbell .............. 81
Hink, Lou la ....................Ju ly 26, '65 Crockett .............. 139 San Francisco ......77
Hinze, Henrietta ..........Jan. 27, '54 Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton .............. 84
Hopper, Lura• ................Feb. 22, '69 Clayton Valley.. 756 Concord ................80
Houck, Alice• ................ July 3, '68 Progressive ........ 578 San Francisco ...... 81
Howard, Nina ................ June 13, '66 Amity-Seal
Rock ................370 San Francisco ...... 86
Hubbard, Eleanor• ...... Sept. 16, '68 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood .......... 75
Hyde, Florence ..............F eb. 8, '62 Eagle Rock ...... ..422 Los Angeles ........ 85
Hyland, Erle .................. Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno .................. 82
Ireland, Lillian ............ Aug. 10, '61 Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ......73
Jackson, Gladyst
(Garrison) ..................Feb. 1, '64 Mountain View .. 194 Mountain View ..73
Jefts, Marie
(Reasoner) ..................July 21 , 48 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............87
Johns tone, Beda•t ......Aug. 16, '68 Paul Revere ......462 San Francisco ...... 81
Jones, Emma ................ Nov. 9, '66 Fruitvale ............ 336 Oakland ................ 79
Kapantais, Edith ..........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic .................... 520 Los Angeles ........85
K eller, Es thert ............. .Ma y 21, '68 le Progres de
L'Oceanie ......371 Honolulu .............. 73
K ermode, Margue rite• . May 29, '69 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ..............79
Kosht, Jennie ................Mar. 28, '68 El Sereno .......... 588 Los Angeles ........ 90
Kreamer, Louise ..........Dec. 11, '64 Redondo ............ 328 Redondo Beach ..91
Laidlaw, Grace ............Dec. 16, '66 Carquinez ..........337 Crockett ................ 89
Lange, Lillie• ................Nov. 14, '68 Amity-Seal
Rock ................370 San Francisco ...... 88
Larsen, Myrtle ..............Sept. 29, '67 Berkeley ............363 Berkeley .............. 84
Larter, Gertrude ..........Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ..............405 Los Angeles ........ 81
Locke, Teresa ................Mar. 9, '62 Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley ........103

No .
Lodge
Age
Town
Admitted
Name
Look, C. Maude ............Mar. 16, '59 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............87
Luscombe, Laura ........June 29, ' 58 Richmond ..........375 San Francisco ......91
MacDonald, Cecelia• ....Oct. 4, '68 Morgan Hill ..... .463 Morgan Hill ........ 76
Mackenzie, Marie .......... Feb. 14, '68 Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ........ 74
Mackley, Benny• ......... .Nov. 30, '68 Tehama .............. 3 Sacramento .......... 86
Marsan, Emily .............. Dec. 7, '67 Foothill .............. 564 Oakland ..............84
Marshall, Lucy ..............June 29, ' 61 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ...... 80
Matthews, Annie .......... Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyome ............ 123 Healdsburg ........ 104
Mayfield, Mary ............Sept. 22, '35 Alpha .................. 431 Richmond ............96
McClary. Ruth• t ......... .Sept. 16, '68 Lomita ................644 Lomita ..................76
McCue, Mabel ................Dec. 29, '67 Blue Lakes ........ 714 San Bruno ............ 82
McDonald, Maude ........July 25, '67 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ................83
Miller, Bessie ................ July 29, '66 Highland Park .. 382 L os An geles ........86
Miller, Catherine ........ Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ................ 352 L os Angeles ........86
Miller, Mildred ..............Dec. 1, '64 Alisal .................. 321 Plensanton .......... 79
Munn, Margaret ............ Mar. 4, 65 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............77
Nayer, Diena ................ Sept. 15, '65 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............ 82
Nelson, Chris tina .......... July 8, '66 Caledonia ..........486 Bakersfield .......... 86
Nipps, Gertrude • ..........Apr. 1, '69 Military
Service ............570 San Francisco ...... 88
Nussbaum, Ida ..............F eb. 23, '60 Alcatraz ............ 244 Oakland .............. 90
Olson, Veronica• t ........Dec. 19, '68 La Cumbre ........ 642 Santa Barbara .... 77
Peirce, Alicet ................May 28, '68 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ......... .82
Pellissier, Georgetta .... Oct. 20, '65 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa .............. 73
Peterson, Lillie .............. Apr. 25, '68 Golden West ......455 San Francisco ...... 84
Pitts, Adelaide ............. .Feb. 5, '54 Mendocino ........ 179 Mendocino ............ 89
Prestidge, Cora ............ June 12, '67 Visalia ................ 128 Visalia ............... ... 75
Ra bing, Sarah• .............. Mar. 6, '69 Pacific ............ ...... 136 San Francisco ...... 88
Raby, Gertrude .............. Dec. 17. '57 Occidental ............ 22 San Francisco ......90
Ray, Ada ........................Aug. 18, '61 Baldwin Park ....660 Baldwin Park ......84
Rice, Phebe .................... Aug. 26, '67 Lorenzo .............. 709 San Lorenzo ........ 87
Roberts, V. Myrlet ........Dec. 16, '60 Yount .................. 12 Napa .................... 85
Ries, Gladys ..................June 10, '68 Mount Olive ......506 Los Angeles ........ 77
Robertson, Margaret .... Apr. 17, '63 Hesperian .......... 264 Santa Maria ........87
·
Robinson, Erma
(Nicolaus) ....................Jan. 27, '59 Unity .................. 368 Glendale .............. 76
Roehm, Olivet ..............Aug. 5, '66 Kit Carson ........ 734 Sacramento .......... 87
Rogers, Isabel ................ May 6, '61 Bixby Knolls .... 699 Long Beach ........82
Ross, Jean ......................Apr. 16, '58 Pacific ................ 136 San Francisco ...... 83
Russell, Sybil ................ Sept. 17, '60 Utopia ................537 Hollywood ............ 88
Ryder, Bertha ................Oct. 17, '58 Wes t Lake .......... 392 Los Angeles ....... .85
Samuel, Claire •t ..........Jan. 6, '69 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda ..............79
Sargent, Inez ................J uly 19, '65 Berkeley ............363 Berkeley .............. 81
Schlueter, Louise ..........July 18, '63 Eden ....................113 San Leandro ........93
Schmidt, Marie ............ May 19, '67 Arlington ........... .414 Los Angeles ........84
Schoenfeld, Violet• .... Sept. 26, '68 King David's ....209 San Lu is Obispo..79
Schrock, Edith ........ ...... Apr. 16, '68 Santa Maria ...... 580 R amona .............. 91
Scovel, Marie ................July 4, '58 Santa Ana ....... .241 Santa An a ...... ......73
Scott, Will-Tomt ..........May 8, '68 La Cumbre ........642 Santa Barbara .... 71
Seymour, Laura ............Feb. l, '36 Honolulu ........... .409 Honolulu ·····-·······91
Shonwald, Ethe l ..........June 28, '68 Presidio .............. 354 San F rancisco ...... 67
Singler, M. L ouise ........Sept. 17, '63 Benicia .............. 5 Benicia ..................85
Skeen, Emma ................Apr. 28, '65 Antioch ..............175 Antioch ................ 75
Smith, Hazel ................Mar. 16, '61 Park Boulevard 568 Oakla nd ................ 83
Smith, Lillian ................Oct. 16, '61 El Cajon ............576 El Cajon ................91
Snowden, J ean ..............Dec. 29, '58 F erndale ............ 193 F erndale ..............95
Steigelman, Joant ........ Mar. 19, '60 Be llflower ..........523 Bellflower ............ 83
Stevenson. Teresa ........Feb . 28, '63 Lodge Maui ....... .472 Ka hului ................86
Stewart. Edna May ...... Dec. 15, '61 East Gate ............ 290 Los A ngeles ........80
Stover, Ruby ..................July 8, '65 Durant ................ 268 Berkeley ..............77
Straight, Johanna ........ Dec. 14, '63 Fruitvale ............336 Oakland ................76

405

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Stromberg, Laura ........Mar. 5, '59 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......84
Swain, Sarah ..................Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ···········-···396 Alameda ..............90
Sweeney, Sada ............Sept. 12, '59 Los Angeles ...... 42 Los Angeles ........94
Sweet, Jennie ................ May 6, '68 San Gabriel ...... 546 San Gabriel ..........74
Swinney, Helen ............Mar. 14, '68 Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton .............. 84
Taforo, May (Pace)t ....Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........77
Ta~lor, Alma
(Sanford)t ..................Jan. 5, '64 University .......... 394 Torrance ..............78
Tillman, Ruby ..............Aug. 2, '63 Mount Moriah .. 44 San Francisco ...... 85
Tranmal, Ebba ..............May 11, '68 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland .............. 79
Tredway, Myrtle• ........Aug. 27, '68 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................82
Trick, Ruth• ..................May 13, '69 Sunset ................ 352 Los Angeles ........77
Van Harreveld.
Constance .................. June 25, '64 King David's ....209 San Luis Obispo.. 83
Van Sickle, J osephine ..Apr. 28, '64 Fresno ................247 Fresno ..................91
Velsir, Vera ....................Jan. 24, '64 Los Gatos ..........292 Los Gatos ............85
Wallace, Helen• ............ Nov. 22, '68 Mission .............. 169 San Francisco ......77
Weinberg, Ada
(Bartrip) t .................. Feb. 7, '63 Redondo ............328 Redondo Beach ..80
Wheat, Daisy .................. Dec. 29, '59 Meridian ............667 Glendale .............. 91
White, Harriette ..........Nov. 19, ' 62 Blackmer ............ 442 San Diego ............97
Whittaker, Ada .............. Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................ 96
Wilhelm, Jennie ..........Dec. 30, '65 Highla nd Park ..382 Los Angeles ........ 85
Will, Della ......................Oct. 13, '66 Sun Garden ...... 530 Fresno .................. 82
Williams, Winnie ........ Sept. 22, '61 Sequoia .............. 349 Oakland ................ 89
Wilson, Ella ..................June 5, '67 BelvedereSunrise ............ 522 Monterey P ark .... 84
Wilson, Minnie•t ........June 26, '69 K erman ..............420 Kerman ................80
Wirth, B. Eileen ............Jan. 29, '65 Justice ................549 San Francisco ......84
Wold, Mattie
(Morefield)t .............. Apr. 5, '65 Riverside ............ 635 Riverside ..............68
Wood, Clara .................. Aug. 24, '65 Balder ................393 San Francisco ....84
Wood, Cora .................... Jan. 27, '67 McKinley ............347 San Pablo ............89
Woodward, Myrt le•t .. Aug. 27, '68 Presidio .............. 354 San Francisco ......80
Wynman, Eva .............. Sept. 2, '59 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ..............92
Wright, Alice ................ Nov. 13, '64 Tehama .............. 3 Sacramento ..........86
Zimmerman, Edith ........ Oct. 28, '63 Naval .................. 87 Vallejo .. ................ 89

Town
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Ma cDonald, Cecelia ......Oct. 4, '68 Morgan Hill ......463 Morgan Hill ........78
McClary , Ruth ..............Sept. 16, '68 Lomita ................ 644 Lomita .................. 75
Nipps, Gertrude ............Apr. l, '69 Military
Service ................570 San Francisco ...... 88
Olson, Veronica ............Dec. 19, '68 La Cumbre ........642 Santa Barbara .... 76
Rabing, Sarah ..............Mar. 6, '69 Pacific ................136 San Francisco ...... 88
Samuel, Claire ..............Jan. 6, '69 Oak Grove ........ 215 Alameda ..............78
Schoenfeld, Violet ......Sept. 26, '68 King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ..78
Tredway, Myrtle ........Aug. 27, '68 Stanislaus .......... 206 Modesto ................ 82
Trick, Ruth .................... May 13, '69 Sunset ................352 Los Angeles ........77
Wallace, Helen ..............Nov. 22, '68 Mission ................169 Sa n Francisco ...... 76
Wilson, Minnie ............June 26, '69 Kerman ..............420 Kerman ................80
Woodward, Myrtle ...... Aug. 27, '68 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 79

-404

WOMEN ADMITTED JULY 1. 1968 TO JUNE 30, 1969
AVERAGE AGE 79.90 YEARS
Town
Age
Lodge
Name
No.
Admitted
Beumer, Maria .............. Feb. 13, '69 Alameda ............ 167 Fremont ..............86
Burmester, Cora ............ J an. 27, '69 Petaluma ............ 180 Petaluma ..............84
Darnell, Dorothea ........ July 8, '68 Downey .............. 220 Downey ···-···········75
Davies, Selma ................ Jan. 10, '69 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles ........78
De France, E va ............Apr. 2, '69 York ....................423 Huntington Park 76
Es tes. Lucy .................... Dec. 4, '68 Rialto .................. 582 Rialto .................. 88
Fallahay, Martha ..........July 31, '68 El Segundo ........ 507 El Segundo ..........75
Fraze', Constance ........Apr. 14, '69 Hemet ................ 615 Hemet ..................78
G ouveia. Nannae ..........Jan. 9, '69 West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ........ 82
Hager, L illian ................July 24, '68 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ................78
Hopper, Lura ................Feb. 22, '69 Clayton Valley ..756 Concord ................ 80
Houck, Alice ..................July 3, '68 Progressive ........ 578 San Francisco ...... 80
Hubbard, Eleanor ........Sept. 16, '68 Cahuenga .......... 513 Hollywood ............74
Johnston, Beda ..............Aug. 16, '68 Paul Revere ...... 462 San Francisco ......80
Kermode, Marguerite ..May 29, '69 Apollo ................ 396 Alameda ..............79
Lange, Lillie ..................Nov. 14, '68 Amity-Seal
Rock ................ 370 San Francisco ...... 87
Mackley, Benny ···-·····Nov. 30, '68 Tehama ···-··-····· 3 Sacramento ........86

WITHDRAWN
Name
Date
Lod{le
No.
Town
Age
Gilliam, Estelle ..............Mar 21, '69 Hemet .................. 615 Hemet ..................84
Hammond, Rose ............Nov. 17, '68 Redwood City ..168 Redwood City ....79
WOMEN DECEASED JULY l, 1968 TO JUNE 30, 1969
AVERAGE AGE 84.40 YEARS
Town
Age
Lodge
No .
N ame
Date
Bennett, Rose ................ Aug. 4, '68 Golden State ......358 Los Angeles ........ 86
Bielar, Grace ................Nov. 8, '68 Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ..........82
Carlson, Lisa .................. Apr. 13, '69 Balder ................393 San Francisco ......75
Casterline, Mary ..........Nov. 21, '68 Oceanside ..........381 Oceanside ............95
Dulfer, Lola D . ..............May 10, '69 Excelsior ·······-··-166 San Francisco ......77
Decker, Yolande .......... Aug. 24, '68 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........77
Gundlach, Nancy ..........Jan. 3, '69 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ..........85
Harper, L aura ................July 15, '68 Yolo .................... 81 Yolo ......................85
Hoskins, Elizabeth ........Dec. 13, '68 Lancaster ..........437 Lancaster ............90
Mackenzie, May ....... 1.•.. Dec. 11, '68 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................90
MacKinnon, Dorothy .. Sept. 4, '68 Alta Loma ..........643 Long Beach ........ 80
McAdam, Emma ..........Nov. 7, '68 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento .......... 85
McDowell, Alice ..........Apr. 10, '69 Alcatraz .............. 244 Oakland ................ 92
Mettler, Stella .............. Apr. 13, '69 Utopia ................ 537 Los Angeles ........73
Olsen, Minnie ................ Dec. 22, '68 Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka .................. 86
Olsh, Sophia .................. Apr. 10, '69 Union .................. 58 Sacramento .......... 83
Pa tterson, Reine ..........June 17, '69 Cahuenga ... .......513 Hollywood ..........87
Pawloski, Mary ............Apr. 17, '69 Glassell Park ....605 Los Angeles ........88
Rehdorf, Josephine ...... Aug. 6, '68 San Jose ............ 10 San Jose ..............85
Rounds, Florence ..........Oct. 8, '68 VeritasJonathan ........545 San Francisco ...... 97
Stitt, Hilda .................... Aug. 31, '68 Thousand Oaks ..478 Berkeley ..............68
Taylor, Jessie ................ May 30, '69 El Sereno ............ 588 Los Angeles ........90
Wells, Grace .................. May 5, '69 Moneta ............... .405 Los Angeles ........86

406

407

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Gockley, Robin ............Mar. 1, '65 Saint Elmo ........ 697 Oakland ................ 13
Hampton, Carol ............Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........10
Hampton, Jennie ..........Nov. 18, '62 Manchester ........585 Los Angeles ........12
Hennessey, Chris• ........Mar. 23, '69 Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys ............ 9
Modine, Leesann. . ...... Feb. 5, '67 El Rancho .......... 515 Pico Rivera ..........14
Mohr, Janet .................... Feb. 4, '67 West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ........ 8
Mohr, Sharon ................Feb. 4, '67 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........ 10
Pedretti, Susan.. ..........Oct. 1, '66 Crystal Honor..1025 Chicago, Ill. ........ 8
Smith, Carolyn ..............Feb. 1, '63 Signal ..................543 Long Beach .......... 17
Torrance, Debra ..........Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ..........16
Torrance, K athy .......... Aug. 4, '61 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ..........14
Torrance, Laurie .......... Sept. 5, '64 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ........ 9
Torrance, Pamela ........Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........685 Sa n Marino .......... 13
Torrance, Sheryl ..........Aug. 27, '61 San Marino ........685 San Marino .......... 12
Wolfe, Nina .................... Aug. 20, '67 Lomita ................644 Lomita .................. 9

June 30, 1969
BOYS-33
No.
Lodge
Age
Admitted
Town
Name
Ashforth, James• ........Nov. 16, '68 Laguna Beach .. 672 Laguna Beach ......12
Barnes, Larry ..............June 18, '66 San Bernardino 348 San Bernardino ..16
Bickerstaff, John .. ......Sept. 21, '66 Lancaster ........... .437 Lancaster ..............17
Bloedel, Kurt ................Ju ne 16, '62 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........ 16
Boehmer, Scott ..............Oct. 24, '65 San Marino ........ 685 San Marino ........ 9
Coates, Harold* ..............J an . 30, '69 Los Banos .......... 312 Los Banos ............15
Figearo. Bert ................. May 16, '65 Covenant ............ 527 Hawthorne ···---...12
F oott, Tim .. ···-···········Nov. 13, '66 Meridian ............667 Glendale ..............16
Haines, Jonathan• ...... Sept. 29, '68 Granada .............. 608 Alhambra ............ 13
H aines. Timothy* ........ Sept. 29, '6B Granada .............. 608 Alhambra ............ 12
H amblin, Mike ................ Nov. 5, '66 Ashlar ................ 306 Colton .................. 16
Hennessey, J. D .............Sept. 11. '67 Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys ............ 9
Hennessey, Joe ............ Sept. 11, '67 Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys .............. 8
House, David•-•• .......... Apr. 13, '69 Covina ................334 Covina ···-······-····· 8
J enner, Michael ............June 24, '67 Wilshire ..............445 Los Angeles ........ 16
Johnson, Robert ..........June 23, '67 Sotoyme ............ 123 Healdsburg ..........13
K ausrud, Stuart ............ J an . 26, '64 Burbank ............406 Burbank ..........-.16
Mann, George ................J an. 1, '57 Alta Vista-Mount
Vernon ........... .464 Daly City ............18
Meyers, Dean ................ Apr. 11, '66 Sunnyside .......... 577 Los Angeles ...... 8
Meyers, Gary .................. Apr. 11 '66 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles ........11
Miles, Joe ...................... Au g. 28, '66 Palos Verdes ......389 Long Beach ..........17
Miller, Richard .............. Apr. 6, '68 Altadena ....... ..... 678 Altadena ............. .10
Pedretti, Andrew .. ...... Oc t. 1, '66 Crystal Honor 1025 Chicago, Ill.........14
Pedretti, Timothy•• ...... Oct . 1, '66 Crystal Honor 1025 Chicago, fll. ........ 11
Perkins, Mark .............. Sept. 6. '63 Sojourne r .......... 607 Duarte ..................16
Perkins, Raymond ...... Sept. 6, '63 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte ..................13
P etzold , Alan •-•• ........ June l B. '68 Warwick ............ 544 New York ............ 13
Price, Bobby• .............. ..J une 12. '69 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte .................. 6
Price, Evan ....................J une 12, ' 69 Sojourner .......... 607 Duarte .................. 5
Price, Meredith ............ Sept. 4, 60 Blackmer and
Sojourner ......442 San Diego ............ 9
Price, Wallace ................Aug. 14, 66 Blackmer and
Sojourner ..... .442 San Diego ............ 7
Sawyer, Delbert• ..........Oct. 20, '68 Baldwin Park .... 660 Baldw in Park ......11
Wolfe, Waylan ..............Aug. 20, 67 Lomita ................ 644 Lomita .................. 8
•Entered the Home during the past year
""Children under e xpanded policy:
John Bickerstaff. Memphis Lodge No. 118. T ennessee
T im Foott, Middleton Lodge No. 180, Wisconsin
David House, Mt. Nebo No. 214, Roseburg, Orego n
T im & Andy Pedretti, Crystal Honor No. 1025, Chicago, Ill.
Alan Petzold, Warwick No. 544, New York

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1969
GIRLS-20
No.
Admitted
Lodge
Age
Name
Town
Bickerstaff, Donna .. .. Sept. 21, '66 Lancaster ........... .437 Lancaster ............ 15
Cabana, Sy lvia• ............ Feb. 15, '69 Fontana ..............653 Fontana ................14
G ettig, Debra ................June 16, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 Hollywood .......... 12
G etti g, Linda ................June 16, '64 Hollywood .......... 355 H ollywood ......._.11
Gockley, Lori ·····--------.Mar. 1, '65 Saint Elmo ··--···697 Oakland --······-··-·15

•Entered the Home during the past year,
.. Children under expanded policy :
Donna Bickerstaff, Memphis Lodge No. 118, Tennessee
Leesa nn Modine, Galena Lodge No. 515, Missouri
DEPARTED DURING THE YEAR
July 1, 1968, to June 30, 1969
BOYS-15

Age
(at departure date)
Date Discharged
Admitted
Cox, Dennis .................. Sept. 7, '51.. .............June 13, '69............................18
Crane, Joseph• .............. Apr. 22, '67 ............... June 13, '69............................ 13
Gockley, Craig ..............Mar. 1, '65 ...............June 13, '69 ............................17
Knauer, Douglas ..........June 18, '66 ...............June 15, '69............................12
Knauer, Larry .............. June 18, '66...............June 15, '69 ............................ 15
Knauer, Paul ................June 18, '66...............June 15, '69....................... - ... 11
Mayo, Raymond• ......... Sept. 10, '67 ...............Nov. 19, '68 ............................ 13
Mayo, W. Mitchell ........ J a n. 27, '68 ...............Nov. 19, '68 ............................ 10
Moore, David ................ Nov. 10, ' 62 .............. Sept. 4, '68............................13
Moore, Daniel ................ Nov. 10, '62...............Sept. 4, '68 ............................ 11
Moore, Deane ................Nov. 10, ' 62 ............... Sept. 4, '68 ............................ 10
Perkins, Walter ............Sept. 6, '63 ...............June 13, '69............................17
Rogers, Willia m ............July 21, '64................July 8, '68............................ 11
Schrader, Spencer ......Sept. 24, '66............... Sept. 1, '68 ............................ 14
Taylor, Kevin ................Oct. 24, '63................May 17, '69............................18
Name

•Left Home second time
GJRLS-8

Age
(at departure date )
Date Discharged
Admitted
Crane, Diane• ................Apr. 22, '67 ............... June 13, '69 ............................11
Crane, Terry• ................Apr. 22, '67 ................May 7, '69 ............................ 18
Crane, Vivian• ..............Apr. 22, '67 ...............June 13, '69............................ 16
Hampton. Vivian ........Nov. 18, '62 ................ Feb. 24, '69............................14
Kna uer, Nancy ............June 18, '66 ...............June 15, '69 ............................ 9
Rogers, Amie ................July 21, '64................July 8, '68............................ 8
Rogers, Julie .................. July 21, '64................July 8, '68............................ 9
Wedde ll, Paule tte • ......June 3, '66 ............... June 13, '69............................17
Name

•Left Home second time.

•108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES CONTRIBUTIONS

COVINA RESERVE (Continued)

(Prepared by office staff)

lllSC:

Contr ibut ions to Reserve s

JULY I, 1968 - JUNE 30, 1969
(The Lodge designati on indicates connect ion b y
interest but no t necessarl ly by membership)
RESERVE FOR ADD I Tl ONS AND REPLACE:llENTS
ESTATES:

lllSC :

George J. Bernstei n
Jul lus Boandl
Noa h Botwin
James Raymond Brown
WI I I lam T. Davie.
Charles Dettman
Ha bel l'\argaret Oi I Ion
John Fl etcher
John H. Helman
RI cha rd Frede r Ick Houck
Phi lip La r so n .
John A. Ledward
Al Ian A. llacLean
Otis L. Hclntyre
Gi l bort Robin . Pec kham
Ruth Keeney Scott
Lloyd Wi 11 iard Stove
John To nn I ngsen
J erome Otis Woo l sey
Hark J . Hanna
Ver ne t. Hi nrichse n
Jamieson foundat ion

(Pacific Lodge #136)
(Ocean Park Lodge #369)
(l'\ount 01 ive lodge #506)
(Uni on l odge #58)
(Pa Ii sades Lodge #637)
(Park l odge #449)
(Palest ine Lodge #3 51
(Oak Grove Lodge '#215)
(Balder Lodge #393)
(Was h ington Lodge /120)
(tioneta l odge #405)
(Redwood CI ty Lodge #168)
(L ibertas Lodge #446)
(John Sprecke 1s Lodge #657)
(Ori e ntal Lodge #144)
(SI Iver Gate l o dge # 296)

~

Ire ne Bene f ield
George Bra I Is
El la H. Brons on
Harold Sherman Brown
John J. Bruni ng
Ru th K. Burns
Vi rgi n la Casey
Amelia C. Cook
Herman Dewey Cook
Ruth E. Fr on k
Albert Ra y Hall e r
Lorenzo Has kl n
Cl a r iec e L. Heckman
S I dn ey l ee J ohnson
WI l llam Henry Leffler
Walter A. Ha rl an !
Al be rt E. Ne"""" n
Karga re t II. Newton
Kadlson T. Owens
Hel lle . H. Pearcey
l u l u f. Rhodes
Dewey Robortson
Hary E. Roge r s
Lena II. Ruse
Ludwig Sc hiff
Kaude Schwa r tz
Leona rd I'\, Str I ckl and
Charles D. St r omgren
Henry c. Ti e ck
Kary Wal ker
Charl o tte E. Warren
Jessie Warrel.
Jesse N. Watson

Arroyo Lodge No. 274 F&AA
J. E. Baco n
Don G, & Ma r I e L. Campbe 11
Cente nnial l<>dge No. 729 F•AA
Ju Ies J. DeHoo r
Faye W. En nor
Wi 11 lam A. (Lon) fishbac.k

(North Ho 11 ywood l odge #542)
(West Adams Lodge #565)
(Pomona Lodge #21.i6)

(Lodl lodge #256)
(Go lden Gate Speranza Lodge #30)
{Oakwood Lodge #743)
{Southe rn Ca 11torn I• Lodga #278)
(H'lnchester Lodge #585)
(\/est Gate Lodge #335)
(Highland Pork Lodge #382
(Live Oak Lodge # 6 1)
(Hi 11 Valley Lodge #356)

(lleridian Lodge #667)

5,800.04
8,989.10
75.29
46,055.64
185,906.38
1,440. 62
12,933.08
67 .64
5, 130.00
28,814.63
2,080.00
71.65
10,000.DO
7 1.46
4,000. 00
1,000 .00
44.82
3, 105.04
9,000.00
2,757 . 45
1,000 . 00
1,000.00
3 ,694.34
1,008 . 56
27.61
507.17
10,812.96
217.24
1,043 ,52
5,059 ,80
2,000.00
380 .00
5,54

591.ith Kas onic Distri'ct Officers Assn
Ins pectors of Di vis ion 5
LaHesa Chapter , Orde r of Del'\olay
Ly nwood Lodge No. 600 f&All
Paul E. Huff
Robert A. Smi t h
Sun Cl ty Mason ic Club
frank L. Sut l iff

DECOTO RESERVE
ES TATES:

John A, H•nclnl
S. Sidney llorton

(East Gate Lodge #290)
(Eden Lodge #113)

Order of the Golden
Slipper K. H.C. (Resh Chapt.)
Hartha J . Smith
ll rs. Nel l ie Spainhower
Charles W. ' J ulia A. Tew i nkle Trust
Verne II . War d

COV I HA RED EV ELOPllENT FUND
8,842.54
9 ,607 ,90
186,282.98
143, 006.52
1,000.00
900.00
44,383 .65
18,750.89
57 ,330.00
75,32
1,000.00
249. 70
124 .3 1
10,000. 00
10,036. 24
110,666.62
580,529.91
8,526. 72
12,497.61

COVI HA RESERVE
ESTATES:

Kr . 'Kro. J. II. Abbey
Ca rl E. Bu rson , Sr.
James G. Craig
Glendale Lodge No. 544
Jack Kr ikori an
Wi lla rd Nelson
Mrs. Klara Ni el sen
Order of DeKolay , California Chapter
Order of De/lo l ay , Gr ass ·valley Chapte r

409

KISC:

Wa I ter L. Beatty
Lou Is Becker
John J. Brun Ing
Herman Dewey Cook
Kart l n L. Cuthbe rt
Homer R. Dallas
Te l es foro OeKora I es
WI 11 iam Lee Dunlap
Chri s t i ne E. Fowl e r
Firman H. Ge tchell
Clare R. Hei neman
Wll l iam He n r y Le ffler
Kary Kar s h
Cha r les A. KcDonald
Haze l Kyr ic k
Kenyon 8. Na ism i th
Ar t hur f. Panton
Nel I le I'\ . Pearcey
Kabel E. Potts
Ti 11 i e Poucher
Dewey Ro bertson
lla ry E. Rogers
John P . Shu 1tz
Ka be l Spencer
Raymond G. Stagg
Ade I I ne E. Stevens
Hartin Verb
J inrnie Wr en
Cl arence C. Estes
llrs. Richard forward

(South West Lodge No. 283)
(Al catr az Lodge No . 244)
(Eden Lodge No. 11 3)
(No rth Ho l 1ywoad Lodge No. 542)
(Gol den West Lodge No. 455)
(Oak Grove Lodge No . 215)
{Francis Drake Lodge No. 376)
(San Benl t o Lodge No . 211)
(Brooklyn Lodge No., 225)
(Lodi Lodge No. 256)

(Oak I and Lodge No. I BB)
(Vacavi ll e Lodge No. 134)

(tlanches ter Lodge No. 585)
{P1so Robl e s Lodge No , 286)
(Yerba Buena Lodge No. lio3)
(West Gate Lodge No. 335)
(Sequoia Lodge No. 349)

$

14.96
1,000. 00
55,628.52
5 ,130.00
8 , 319.96
2,000.00
2,000.00
4 ,706.56
500.00
1, 500.00
1,000.00
3 ,000.00
247.91
314.oo
100.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
2, 757 .46
I ,070.)3
523.33
1,000.00
3,694.37
2,2)4.38
9,538.50
29,353 .40
71.46
2,500.00
1,000,00

In ternational Orde r of Job's
Daughter5 1 Bet he l No. 207
&ma Slove r

STUDENTS'· LOAN AND SCHOLARSHIP f'UNO
ESTATES :

Al va L, Shaw

lllSC :

llrs. Geo rge W. Ewlng (G. w. Ewing Kuslc Sc holarshi p)
California Sta t e Craft of Na tiona l federoted Craft

55,500.85

GRAND LODG E OP CALIF ORNI A

PROC EEDIN GS OP THE

'i 10

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
lContlnued)

CHRISTMAS AHO ENTERTAIHl'IEHT RESERVE
with appre ciatio n th4l
The Truste es of the Masonic Homes acknowledge
rece I ved from:

contri bution s

Knights Templlr Comnanderles
Saaramento No. 2
Nevada No. 6
San Jose Ho . lO
Naval No. 19
San Luis Obispo Ho. 27

Southe rn Califo rnia No. 37
Palo Alto No.-47
Whitt ler No. 51
San Pedro No. 60

Fidel lty Ho. 96
Redondo Ho. IOI
Hi 11 Valley No. 108
Sebast opol No. 117
lll lmlng tonNo , 141

Royal and Selec t Haster1 Counc ils
Pomona No. 21

Harbor Ho. 45

A. ' A. S. R. \Bodies)
Burl lngame
Fresno
Oakland (33° Almoner)

Sacram ento

San Diego
San J on

Distr ict Office rs Assoc iation s
42lst Distri ct
506th Distr ict
530th Distri ct
536th Distri ct

538th Distr ict·
542nd Distr ict
584th Distr ict
628th Di stricr

llason ic Clubs
Citrus Shr ine Club
Citrus Shrine Club, ~Town Unit
Compas s Club, East Whitt ier
Compas s Club, San Diego
Dani sh llasonl c Club of So. Calif.
Long Beach Masonic Club
DeHolay, Job's Daugh ters, Rainbow for Girls
DeJololay, Paul Revere Chapter
DeMola y, Redwood Chapte r
DeMol ay, Santa Ana Chapte r
DeHolay, Valley Chapt er
DeMo lay, Warren Chapter
Job's Daugh ters; BHhel No. 47
Job's Daught e rs, Bethel Ho.' 103
Job 1 s Oaughte rs, lie the I No. 109
Job 1 s Daugh ters, Bethe 1 !lo; 142
J ob's Daugh ters, Burlin game

Atasca dero Chapter Ho. 344
Cancer Dr~sslng Unit
of East Bay O.E.S.
East Bay Hatron s of 1951 O.E.S.
Hermos a Chapter 'Ho . 105 0 , E. S,
Mercede s Chapte r No. 126 O.E,S .
II i see 11 aneous

Roye! Arch Mason Chapte rs
Nevada No. 6
Dixon Ho. 48
Hanford No. 74
Panona Ho. 76
San Pedro No. 89
Pal o Alto Ho. 93

£aster n Star and Amarenth

San Franc isco Square Club
San Gabrie l Valley Shrine Club
Santa Anita Sh ri ne Club
Sun City Hasonlc Club
Telephone Hason ic Club , Los Angeles

Rainbow Girls, No. 83 Victo rville
Rainbow Girls , Ho. 86 Orange
Rainbow Girls, No. 150 Assembly
Ral,.o w Girl s , Ho. 164 Lynwood

Arden-Mayfair Federa l Cred it
Union (T rowle Club)
~ichard A. Balley
Hr. ' Hrs. Harry L. Baker
Gerald & Lois B• ttman
Brea-O linda High School
Hr. & Hrs. Smith H. Coates
Mrs. Dav is
Mr. Dlllen baugh 1 s School Class,
Pomona
Mr . & Hrs. J . Eastman
Eme rson Jr . High Schoo l, Panona
Hr . & Hrs. Hugh Evans
Blanch I. Fields , Pres. 966'
Chapl ain Assn of So. Calif,
Stanle y F, Fisher
Fly ing Wing Acac ia Club of
Northrup Corp .
Hen ry & Adele Freuli ch
Golden Chai n Assn of Chapl ains
Howard E. Haines
Hrs. Jack Harps ter
Hr. 'H rs . Claren ce Hearn
Herald Exami ner'lle nefit Fund
H. I. T. Club - Gardena
Mr . & Hrs . WilT Holman
John Hoole
Hr. Bob Hope
Hr. Houghto n
Judy Jones, Jobles No. 17
Ray V, Jaymont
Hr. II , E. Key
Khaba Court Patrol
Hr. Ki rkpatr ick
Kiwanis Club of Huntin gton Pk
Hal 'Virg inia Knighten

Past Matron s Assoc ., Bakers f ield
Past Matron s & Past Patrons
of Santa Cruz, O.E.S.
San Rafae l Chapte r No.215 O.E.S .
Siloam Chapter No. 406 O.E.S.
Torran ce Chapt er No. 380 O.E.S .

Laguna Hills Le i sure World
Lever Hasonic Associ ates
Li brasco pe Aid Club
llr. & llrs. Rober t Marsha ll
Masonic Ja ckson Memorial Fund
Mob i l Oil Corp., Employ•es
Charit y Fund
Honteb ello High Twelve Club
Ha r ion Horgan
Hr. & Hrs . Elmer C. Neher
Susi e V. O'Conner
Open Book Cl ub, O.W.S. of
Je rusalem No. 58 & 59
Ordor of th• Go lden S l l pper,
Shin Chapt er
llr. fr Hrs. H. V . Overley
Peters &. Poters
Paul A. Pflueg er
Hr. & Hrs. Ha r ry Rosenblum
Santa Fe Emp l oyees Club,
San Berna rd I no
Hrs. Ethe l R. Sche i ser
Hr. & Hrs . Harold Smith
Soroptiml st Club of Covi na
John Spence r
,S ta rl i ghters
Grace E. Stofle
Sun City Sunshi ne Fund
Grace L. Tams
Theatr e Transi t Company, Inc .
·
Twelve Hi Club
Jack Tyre ll
Hr. & Hrs. II. II. Webster
Wester ner s
Mr. J. Wheeler

'i 11

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CHRISTttAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RES ERVE
(Continued)
LOOGES

Ca 1 i forn i" No. l
Western Star No. 2
Tehama No. 3
Ben icia No. 5
Corinthian No. 9
Yount No. 12
Eureka No. 16
La Parfaite Union No. 17
San Joaquin No. 19
Wash ing ton No. 20
Haw a i i an No. 21
Madis on No. 23
El Dorado No. 26
Trinity No. 27
Golden Gate No. 30
Gold Hill No. 3Z
San Oiego No. 35
Sa nta Cruz No. 38
Mount Moriah No. 44
Un ion No. 58
Enterprise No. 70
Humbo ldt No. 79
Nava I No. 87
Yosemite No. 99
Orov i lle No. 103
Lex i ngton No. 104
Chi co No. 11 I
Eden No. 113
Concord No, 117
Fidelity No. 120
A1amo No. 122
La fayette No. 126
~e r111ann No,· 127
Visa 1 i a No, 128
Pacif ic No. 136
Crockett No. 139
Frankl in No . 143
Oriental No. \lt4
1'.ol ino No. 150
Exce ls ior No. 166
Redwood City No, 168
Ant I och No. 175
Petaluma No. 180
Keith No. 187
Karin No. 191
Mountain Vi ew No. 194
San Simeon No. 196
Wilmington No, 198
Si I veyv i I le No. 201
Stanislaus No. 206·
King Oavid 1 s No, 209
Friendship No. 210
South San Francisco No.212
Oak Grove No. 215
Monte rey No. 21 7
Rosevi lie No. ·222
Bakersfield No , 224
San Mateo No. 226
Athens No. 228
Hill s Ferry No. 236
Guadalupe No. 237
Santa Ana No. 241
lau re l No. 245
Pomon;i No . 246
Fresno No. 247
landmark No. 253

" ---"'t-- "-

"J r l.

Tuscan No . 261
Lompoc No. 262
Hes peria n No . 264
Orland tlo. 265
Ol i ve Branch No. 269
Pasade na No. 272
Arroyo No. 274
Mount Shasta No. 281
Paso Robles No. 286
Eas t Gate No. 290
Liberty No. 299
Redlands No , 300
Ontario No . 301
Azusa No. 305
Ashlar No. 306
Monrovia No. 308
Temesca l No. 314
Norwalk No. 315
N"edles No. 326
Long Beach No . 327
Redondo No. 328
F ruitvale No. 336
Carquinez No. 337
Starr King No. 344
Pal o Alto No . 346
McKinley No. 347
San Bernardi no Ho. 348
Sequoia No . 349
Palest i ne No. 351
Mi l l Valley No . 356
Charity No. 362
Amity No. 370
J.,..el No. 374
Richmond No. 375
Franci s Drake No. 376
Art esia No . 377
Mizpah No. 378
Fil lnore No. 379
Highland Park No. 382
El Centro No. 384
Dinuba No. 385
Parnassus No. 388
Balder No. 393
Rising Li ght No, 397
Moneta No. 405
La Mesa No. 407
Honolulu No. 409
Perris No. 411
Si lve r Trowel No . 415
Li ndsay No. 416
Hidway No. 426
San Di mas No. 428
Alpha No. 431
Maricopa No. 434
Sta ndard Ho. 440
Torrance No. 447
Mou nt Oiablo No. 448
Argonaut No. 461
Paul Rever" Ho . 462
Rockridge No. 468
Delta No. 471
Temblor Ho. 477
Thousand Oaks No . 478
Go lden Rule Ho. 479
Mt. Davidson Ho . 481
Bell No, 483
r ... no .1.-.t..: 1 1 1111 Nn

L.Rc

Ca ledonia Ho. 486
Woodstock No. 491
Atascadero No. 493
Acorn Ho. 494
Capital City No. 499
Roosevel t No. 500
Point Ho. 503
El Segundo No. 507
Cupertino No. 510
Cahuenga No. 51)
Taft No. 516
Orinda No. 521
Belvedere Sunri se Ho. 522
Geo rge Washington Ho. 525
Bay City No. 526
Covenant No. 527
Alexande r Hamilton No. 535
Ascot No. 538
Henry Morse Stephens No.541
Signal No. 543
San Gabrie l No . 546
Semper Virens No. 552
Point Fi rmin No. 558
East San Diego No . 561
S. W. Hackett No. 574
El Cajon Va 1ley No. 576
Kauai No. 589
Cooipass No. 590
Tuj unga No. 592
Serv ice No, 594
Alexander Graham Bell Ho.595
Guardian No. 596
Dimond No. 603
Granada No. 608
Nept une Ho. 619
The Gardens No. 621
Riverside Na. 635
Palisades No. 637
Alta Lena No. 643
A. F. E. Irwin No . 645
Damascus No. 648
Bal dwin Pa rk No , 660
San Gorgonio Ho. 668
Joh n P. Jarman No. 669
Far Wes t Ho. 673
Modesto No. 675
Wi llow Glen No. 676
Das Palos Ho. 68 1
Albany Ho. 686
San Carl os No. 690
Santa Ynez Valley Ho. 701
El Cerrito Ha. 705
Estero No. 719
Mineral King llo. 720
Saint John 's No. 725
Merced No . 749
Clayton Valley Ho . 756
Jos iah W. Roller No.761
Coastslde Ho. 762
Tej on No. 773
East Wh it t ler Ho. 776
Rolling Hills No. 781
GIOml n I No. 825

GENER AL

APPEN DIX

GRAN D LODGE OP CALIF ORNIA

il3

GEN ERA L APP END IX

CONTENTS
Page

...................... 414
Stand ing Committees .................. ....................................
·······----···· 418
Special Committees ······--········--··-··········-·-··········--···········---···
-··················· 421
Const itutio nal Boards ···-···········-·····-····· ---··········---··········.................... 422
Maso nic Home s ....................................................... .........
................... .. 423
California Masonic Memorial Temp le...........................
............... 423
C alifornia M asonic Found ation .............................................
................ 424
Regis tratio n and Milea ge Paym ents.................. ..................
....................... 448
List of Const ituent Lodge s.................. ...........................
................. 465
Extin ct Lodges, Including Consolidations .................. .........
............ ......... 472
Electe d Officers Grand ~odge Since Organ izatio n .........
..................... 479
List of Inspe ctors ...............................................................
.................... 483
Forei gn Gran d Lodge s......................................................
......... ............ 489
Alpha betica l List of Lodges .............................................
................... 497
Corre spond ence Repo rt Anno uncem ent .................. .........
..................... 499
Index .................................................................................

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1969-197 0
STANDIN G COMMITT EES
JURISPRUD ENCE
Leo E. Anderson (355) ........................ .....500 Mobil Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 90017
Elmer W. Heald (384) ........................................ 898 Wensley St., El Centro 92243
Elbert W. Davis (571) ............................. ............. 2908 Russell St., Berkeley 94705
Carl H. Allen (388) ................................ .....350 Arballo Dr., San Francisco 94132
Robert B. Watts (518) .......................................... 7949 Princess St., La Jolla 92037
Gerald S. Levin (136) .............................. 1080 Chestnut St., San Francisco 94109
Sy Dennis, Jr. (3) ......................._................. 1031 Appollo Way, Sacramento 95822
F. Jose deLarios (376) ......................355 Erica Dr., South San Francisco 94080
Guy Reynolds (95) ........................................................................Sutter Creek 95685

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Ellsworth Meyer (677) ............................1415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena 91103
Theodore Meriam (111) ..........................................713 Arbutus Ave., Chico 95926
Eugene S. Hopp (260) ........................ 2000 Van Ness Ave. , San Francisco 94109
Clare B. Campbell (230) ......................................Route 1, Box 682, Gridley 95948
Marion E. Pedlar (258) ............................. ......... 1057 - 4lst St., Sacramento 95819
Anthony J. Oliver (509) ........... _.............2377 Castillian Dr., Los Angeles 90028
Thomas R. Waite (510) ........................................3241 Galli St., Hawthorne 90250
Wilbert B. Adams (560) ......................................3175 Lucas Dr., Lafayette 94549
Gilbert A. Benoit (260) .......... 1880 Pacific Ave., Apt. 504, San Francisco 94109

GRAND LODGE OP CALI PO RN IA

415

PAY OF MEMBERS
Matthew M. Codon (42) .......................... 530 Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 90005
Archer R. Richardson (185) ................................................Stewart's Point 95480
Claude Black (397) ................................ 7109 Stafford St., Huntington Park 90255
Dean H. Dewhurst (479) ............................. .......14020 Aldo Court, San Jose 95127
Herm an W. Ross (136) .............................. 1686 - 26th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lou Aronian (454) ............ ................... .408 Gold Mine Dr., San Francisco 94131
Paul M. Porter (480) ............................................. .429 Sunset Rd., Alameda 94501
James R. Vaughn (544) ...................................... 1811 Harmon Pl., Glendale 91208

CHARTERS
Phillip B. Stone (727) ................ ·-····· .............. 1007 Bethany Rd., Burbank 91504
Robert A. Smith (426) ...................... 5701 Indian Wells Ave., Bakersfield 93309
John L. Shaw (805) .................................... 8845 E. Callita St., San Gabriel 91775
Alfred T. Gruening (445) ................ 446 San Vicente Blvd., Santa Monica 90402
Frank Homer (666) .................................... 610 Pullman Rd., Hillsborough 94010
Harry L . Maynard (214) ............................ 5448 Bryn Mawr Dr., Ventura 93003
Edward G. Van Pelt (778) ............................15509 Ocasa Ave., La Mirada 90638
Harold M. Hand (492) ...................... ..............1927 Canada Blvd., Glendale 91208
Lloyd D. Hanselman (588) ............................6516 Camino Caseta, Goleta 93017
Kenneth Hemphill (728) ..........................1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 90804
Merle F. Loque (612) ...... ................. 9544 E. Live Oak Ave., Temple City 91 780
Clayton R. Heinz (779) ........................ 5576 California Ave., Long Beach 90805
John W. Paulson, Jr. (262) ........................................ 125 N. "X" S t. . Lompoc 93436
James R. Thornton (22) ........................ 1342 Francisco St., San Francisco 94132
Bernard Reizner (674) ............................ 6718 E. El Salvador, Long Beach 90815

BY-LAWS
FINANCE
John A. Sickenberger (392) ..... .Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) ......................... .417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena 91106
John C. Wiesner (144) ................................. .49 Lake Forest Dr., Daly City 94015
Uno E . Nordeen (549) .................. 1750 Taylor St., Apt. 202, San Francisco 94133
Al Enderlin (360) ............................................ 19 Eureka St., San Francisco 94114
Oran 0. Bridges (776) ............................. .....9811 Newcomb Ave., Whittier 90603
Sam L. Quint (520) ...................... ............. 3214 Barbydell Dr., Los Angeles 90064

Alden Fulkerson, Sr. (35) ............................. ......... 3205 Poe St., San Diego 92106
Charles H. Grace (635) ................................ 4310 Highland Pl., Riverside 92506
Robert A. Wertsch (22) ........................90 San Benito Way, San Francisco 94127
Bertrand F. Lurie (216) ................................ 26 Rossi Ave., San Francisco 94118
Donald M. Binkerd (693) ..............4704 Sunny Dunes Rd., Palm Springs 92262
Bernard R. Seamans (299) .............................. 1192 Kent Ave., Sunnyvale 94087
Isaac C. Campbell (75 1) .................. ....... 397 Alameda Del Prado, Ignacio 94947

CORRESPO NDENCE
GRIEVANC ES
Alfred J. McCourtney (437) .............................. 3108 Menlo Dr., Glendale 91208
Charles Becker (344) ....Municipal Court, 75 Wellington Ave., Daly City 94015
Harold S. Morrison (450) .............. ·----····14615 Magnolia Blvd., Van Nuys 91403
J . W arren Manuel (494) ........................................1212 Broadway, Oakland 94612
James W. Halley (375) ......................................529 W. Poplar, San Mateo 94402
Harold E. Rowe, Jr. (673) .... 5557 Diamond Heights Blvd., San Francisco 94131
Donald B. McCaw (449) ............................. ...42 Forbes Ave., San Anselmo 94960

George W. Burch (650) ............................. .... .417 So. Hill St., Los Angeles 90013
Fred W. Morris (394) ....................................1841 Garretson Ave., Corona 91720
C. S . Barrett (587) ..............................33701,2 San Marino St., Los Angeles 90005
J. Wilson Getsinger (518) ............................. - ... 1453 Coast Walk, La Jolla 92083
Donald Thomas (264) ..............................709 E. Church St., Santa Maria 93454
Carl 0 . Harvey (656) ................................................ 114 E . Locust St., Brea 92621
Floyd R . Weatherford (348) .............................. 22782 Fairburn Dr., Colton 92324

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES
CREDENTIA LS
J. Glen Gladson (542) ..... .4201 Topanga Canyon Blvd., Woodland Hills 91364
Harry F. Lutticken (166) ............................ 1611 - 7th Ave. , San Francisco 94122
Edward E. Smith (587) ............3905 Via Cardelina, P a los Verd es Estates 90275
Emil Trefts (38) .................................................. 126 Dake Ave., Santa Cruz 95062
John C. Whitfield (581) ............ . ............ 1761 Las Robles Dr., Bakersfield 93306
Jim R. Molloy (198) ....................... _.............1621 W. 254th St., Harbor City 90710
John E. Plunkett (752) ........................ 1824 Robin Hood Lane, Santa Rosa 95405

William Van Ornum (374) ......................748 Wisconsin St., San Francisco 94107
Bernie J . Katz (120) ............ .....................1864 - 28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lowell H. Beckendorff (462) .................... 3939 Ortega St., San Francisco 94122
Phil Bovero (374) ........................................ 2222 - 39th A ve., San Francisco 94116
Perry Lawson (462) .................................... 1978 - 46th Ave., San Francisco 941l6
Edwin C. Mathisen (360) ............................337 Douglas St., San Francisco 94114
Edward W. Quon (673) .............................. 750 Grant Ave., San Francisco 94108
Joseph F. Garriott (630) ............................3844 - 19th Ave., San Francisco 94132

416

PROCEEDING S OF THE

Frederick A. Wilson (356) ........................................ 306 - 4th St., Sausalito 94965
Ben A. Katz (344) ................................... ... 2166 - 47th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Raymond J . Rodriquez (166) ............... .417 Teresita Blvd., San Francisco 94127
William H. Osborne (449) ........... ............... 1982 - 48th Ave., San Francisco 94116
George F . Adams (481) ....................................75 Borica St., San Francisco 94127
John Newsham (525) ....................... .......36 Alta Mar Way, San Francisco 94127
Peter M. Tripp (560) ........................................ 5878 Moraga Ave., Oakland 94611
Jeff H. Eichner, Jr. (686) ....................... ........... 1320 Portland Ave., Albany 94706
Robert W. Moore (30) ............................ 367 Lakeshore Dr., San Francisco 94132
Kenneth C. Birnbaum (120) ......................845 Sloat Blvd., San Francisco 94132

LODGE FINANCI NG
John F . Porter (677) ..........................1630 Antigua Way, Newport Beach 92660
Benjamin L. Susman (529) ................ 9171 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills 90210
Keith V. Johnson (655) ..................... ............. 247 E. Scott St., Long Beach 90805
Wesley W. Honeyman (191) ..................... .448 Fenway Dr., Walnut Creek 94598
George W. Sturm (254) ....................................3410 Scenic Drive, Redding 96001
Robert P. Batchelor (169) ........... ....... 89 Ashbury Terrace, San Francisco 94117
Victor R. Oltmanns (505) ......................................... .4282 Seton Rd ., Irvine 92664
Allyn W. Barrows (809) .............. .......3162 Yellowtail Rd., Los Alamitos 90720
Robert W. Campini (564) ....................... .........29 Normandy Lane, Orinda 94563

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

417

Clyde M. Stine (560) ....................................444 - 15th Ave., San Francisco 94118
William R. Porter (313)....................... .......................Star Route, Tehachapi 93561
Robert Kerr (725) ......... ................................. 1816 North 6th St., Concord 94520
William J . Caven (111) ............ .............. 123 Henshaw Ave., Sp. 300, Chico 95926
Laurence C. Cook (648) ........................ 582 Parkdale Dr., San Bernardino 92404
Thomas Scarlett, Jr. (801) ..................... .407 N. Kalahea, Kailua, Hawaii 96734
George C. Holstein (366) ....................... ........... 203 E. Normal Ave., Fresno 93705
Philip C. Reiner (264) ....................... ......... 1414 South Miller, Santa Maria 93454
Harold J . Farr (78) ........................ .................... P.0. Box 122, San Andreas 95349
Robert M. Evans (516) .............................................. 204 E. San Em idio, Taft 93268
George Hess (684) ........................ ............................................Box 61, Trona 93562
Richard A. Hebert (169) ...................... 2730 Rollingwood Dr., San Bruno 94066
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) ................. .......1624 McClaren Dr., Carmichael 95608
Dana A. Turpin (336)............ .........................3332 Liberty Ave., Alameda 94501
Harold K. Rankin (620) .................. 4704 W. Point Loma Blvd., San Diego 92107
William E. Zimmerman (58) ............................ 3959 - 57th St., Sacramento 95820
Milton M. Rubin (623) ............................ 2141 W. Washington, Los Angeles 90014
Dean L. Shively (104) ....................... ......... 3348 Lexington Ave., El Monte 91731
Edward C. Poulton (502) ....................... ... 5861 Marion Court, Richmond 94803
Richard F. Pearce (339) .............................. 1418 E. Virginia Rd., Fullerton 92631
Clarence B. Hobson (254) ...................................... 2315 Canal Dr., Redding 96001
Consultants:
Richard R. F. Lehman (351) ......................2136 W. 77th St., Los Angeles 90047
Oscar E. Anderson (481) ................185 Graystone Terrace, San Francisco 94114

NECROLO GY
Edward A. Underwood (636) ................ 1310 N. Fuller Ave., Los Angeles 90046
William E. Rife (736) ................................ 2040 Dayton Dr., Lemon Grove 92045
Morris Goldstein (120) ................................2090 Broa dway, San Francisco 94115
George R. E a ton (362) ................................... .4791 Williams Rd., San Jose 95130
Harry G. Torbett (682) ............................................ 36560 Bel Aire, Barstow 92311

RITUAL
Harold N. Richards (20) ......................................5260 "K" St., Sacramento 95819
Bertram C. vonKonsky (260) ............................3498 Oakes Dr., Hayward 94542
Frank P. Lemen (613) ...................................... 932 - 42nd St., Sacramento 95819
Ulysses G. Patropulos (260) ... ....... 1360 Leavenworth St., San Francisco 94109
Wallace H . Fiske (391) ..........................................P .0. Box 631, Tuolumne 95379
Burton Meyer, Jr. (358) ............................727 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles 90015
H . Douglas Lemons (699) ............................2958 Daneland St., Lakewood 90712

MASONIC HISTORY
Phillip L . Goldstein (42) .................... 219 S. Hamilton Dr., Beverly Hills 90211
Paul Cowgill (1) ............... 200 L ake Dr., Portola Park West, San Bruno 94066
Ralph E. H . Cooper (327) ............................... .4616 Arbor R d., Long Beach 90807
Fred 0. Sherrill (237) ................................ 603 So. Lucas Dr., Santa Maria 93454
Darrell H. Hull (675) .............................................. ......328 Ruberto, Modesto 95351
Karl A. Vandebrooke (481) ...... ............... 1717 - 17th Ave., San F rancisco 94122
Tony A. Burnl!ide (634) ........Star Route 92334, Box 315, Sa n Bernardino 92430

PUBLIC SCHOOLS
Richard H. Dutwiler (622) ........................3920 Legion Lane, Los Angeles 90039
George Hia tt (247) ..... - .............................................1364 Echo Ave., Fresno 93728
E arl Van Vorst (286) ............................................P .O. Box 233, Paso Robles 93446
Norbert P. Tester (384) ............ . ..............................P.O. Box 100. El Centro 92243
Rolland F. Atwood (12) ....................... .........................P.O. Box 2004, Napa 94558

MASONIC INFORMA TION AND RESPONS IBILITY
William F. Poynter (545) ..................1200 Monterey Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Arthur Dyorin (639) ........... ............................ ..... 454 S. Detroit, Los Angeles 90036
Warren Blomseth (603) ......................... .13180 Clairepointe Way, Oakland 94619
Ross Fuller (362) ..........................................2991 Withrow Pl., Santa Clara 95051
Louis I. Goldkind (120) ........................ ... .98 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132
Roy R. Crawford (247) .................................. 1609 N. Arthur Ave., Fresno 93705
Ralph A. Herbold (.600) .......................... 10972 Sampson Ave., Lynwood 90262
Charles C. Warren (57) ..............................1229 College Ave ., Santa Rosa 95404
Henry D. Oliphant (360) ....................... ............. 2915 Florida St., Oakland 94602
Arthur S. Becker (344) ........................... ..... 761 - 34th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Maurice A. Harband (120) ................. .........238 - 29th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Stanley Diamond (526) ............................1 Stonecrest Dr., San Francisco 94132
Milton E. Ammann (600) ....................... ..... 2709 E. 220th St., Long Beach 90810
William J. Williams (685) ........................ ..................The I rvine Co., Irvine 92664
George M. Haley (605) ............................ 4489 Mont Eagle Pl., Los Angeles 90041
Don E. Berry (568) ............................................... .......................Box 208, Lodi 95241
George H . Himes (602) .... 3995 N. Beverly Glen Blvd., Sherman Oaks 91403
Stephen J . Dean, Jr. (260) .......... ............ 1643 - 27th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Charles P. Cusick (613) ....................... .4160 Los Coches Way, Sacramento 95826
John M. Bowersox (79) ........................................................ Box 167, Cutten 95534
Alvin M. L esser (344) ............................ 1919 Funston Ave., San Francisco 94116
Rodney E. Wincentsen (431) ............................4595 Fran Way, Richmond 94803
Donald J. Mork (399) ..................................19975 Scotland Dr., Saratoga 95070
Clyde B. Tyler (791) ..................................46943 N. D ivision St., Lancaster 93534
Coleman D. Irby (417) ........................ .......... 2546 E. Hampton War, Fresno 93726
John L. Cooper III (641) ............................ 24632 Christanta, Mission Viejo 92675
John H. Brown (583) ............................................... .......448 "E" St., Wasco 93280
Robert M. Perkins (254) ....................... ............ .110 Wilshire Dr., Redding 96001
Charles B. Turner (598) ....................... .....................202 Huali St., Honolulu 96813
Clifford H. Bailey (680) ....................................49 Esplanade, Pacific Grove 93950
Donald Ingalls (542) .............................................. 1053 Peninsula, Ventura 93003
Bill L . Maranville (218).................................... 2484 Bess Ave., Livermore 94550
Joseph Butera (192) ............................1922 De La Vina St., Santa Barbara 93101

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

SPECIAL COMMITTEES
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
Herman R. Moore (347) ............5834 Sherwood Forest 15450, El Sobrante 94803
Lonnie Childers (649) ... ............ ................. 2064 Zoe Ave .. Huntington Park 90255
Charles N. Clarkson (757) ............................ 1602 W. Walnut St., Stockton 95203
Jack B. Crawford (528) .................... ....... 2404 Midwickhill Dr., Alhambra 91803
Warren L. Bacon (343) .................................. 13533 Branford St., Pacoima 91332
Donald Brent (254) ................................................ 5701 Fagen Dr., Redding 96001
James C. Tario (552) .............................................................. Box 767, Eureka 95501
Earl C. Arbuck.le (111) ...... .................................384 E. Washington, Chico 95926
Robert Schultz (719) .................................... 1170 Quintana Dr., Morro Bay 93442
Wiley T. Killingsworth (699) ................... .4155 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 90807
James E. Calhoun (4.22) .......................... 1455 Holbrook Ave., Los Angeles 90041
James T. Coulson (604) .... .............................. 1325 N. Garnsey, Santa Ana 92706
Norman Smith (682) ....................................................P.O. Box 43, Yermo 92398
Irving Zuckerman (823) .............................. 1754 Athens Court, Claremont 91711
Clyde E. Rodgers (390) ................................562 Wensley Ave., El Centro 92243
Lloyd J. Patterson (616) ...................... 1220 Crestview Ave., Seal Beach 90740
Louis D. Rusconi (554) ................................2614 Fox Plaza, San Francisco 94102
William D. Knight (437) ......................... .............. .44332 N. Fig, Lancaster 93534
Harold E. Scott (667) ..................................... 1423 E. Broadway, Glendale 91205
Louis N. Frawley (55) ....... ......................... 1636 Mayberry Court, Fairfield 94533
Carl Minton (685) ....... ................ ................. 2285 Mellville Dr., San Marino 91108
Clifford L. Duncan (222) .................. 7405 Convair Way, Citrus Heights 95610
R. William Carl (682) ...................................... 701 Montara, Sp. 19, Barstow 92311
Mon T. Luke (598) ...................................................... 862 Kii St., Honolulu 96821
William S. Britton (351) ...................... 7501h N. Edinburgh, Los Angeles 90046
Harold L. Scheppler (455) ........................ 59 Inverness Dr., San Francisco 94132
Phil N. Crawford (199) ............................................. .P.O. Box 68, Lakeport 95453
Richard Hoeplain (821) ........................ ................. 25017 Valley Pl., Carmel 93921
Richard F. Locke, Jr. (761) ........................ 23644 Arbor Ave., Los Angeles 90022
Joseph W. Drake (659) ..................................2320 W. Story Ave., La Habra 90601
Ted Skoll (136) ......................................................1440 Broadway, Oakland 94612
Melvin Baer (Advisor) ...... ............... 10577 Wellworth Ave., Los Angeles 90024

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

419

Norman T. Stocking (506) .. 5032 Maplewood Ave., Apt. 104, Los Angeles 90004
Fay E. Bates (51) ...........................................................P .O. Box 121, Colfax 95713
Frank Larson (556) ......................................... .421 Holcomb Ave., Larkspur 94939
Lloyd A Budwig (380) .................. 19251 Bushar d St., Huntington Beach 92646
John E. Warren (762) ................................................ 330 Reichling, Pacifica 94044
Edward H . Millis (382) ............ . ....................5613 Aldama St., Los An ge les 90042
Francis Atkins (674) ....................................17908 H offman Ave., Cerritos 90701
Robert J. Matheison (243) .................................. 24766 - 2nd St., Hayward 94541
Joe Hammond (490) .............................-··············-···1119 Whitley, Corcoran 93212
Joseph F. Zimmerman (665) ................................ 33925 Road 152, Visalia 93277
Leonard H. Moller (530). ...............................................1123 E. Yale, Fresno 93704

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
William D. Archer (391) ....... - ...........................................Box 603, Tuolumne 95379
George A. Jurgens (491) ..............................................942 Park St., Alameda 94501
A. T. Kiersch (236) .................... 1959 Golden Rain Rd., #8, Walnut Creek 94529
Donald M. Stewart (8) ................................................................ Chinese Camp 95309
Donald D . Pitman (651) ....................................P.O. Box 306, Angels Camp 95222
John Menzies (24) ......................................................Shell Station, Mariposa 95328

COMMERCIALISM
Harvey Harkness (506) ......................................210 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 90014
James J. Dalton (403) ................................................ 3 Bel Air Court, Orinda 94563
Clarence Guffey (283) ................................................ 36 19 Spa S t., San Diego 92105
Vincent P. McMurdo (454) ........................385 Valdez Ave., San Francisco 94127
Stanley H. Nielsen (530) ........... _......................... 3125 North Pacific, Fresno 93705
Arthur M. Williams (27) .......................... ·-················· ··Box 2, Junction City 96048
T. Galt Atwood (454) ........................................450 Sutter St., San Francisco 94108
Edward E. Smith (454)................................ 2512 - 19th Ave., San Francisco 94116

RETIREMENT
TAXATION
Alexander Croce (354) .................... 333 Santa Clara Ave., San Francisco 94127
W. Stanley Davis (144) ..............................678 - 26th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Raymond B. Haizlip (1) .................... 2217 Forest View Dr., Hillsborough 94010

Guy B. Mize (368) ..............................................1238 ldlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
Alfred W. Odle (339) ......................................1017 Springfield Dr., Millbrae 94030
Warren Blomseth (603) .......................... 13180 Clairepointe Way, Oakland 94619
Edward T. Mancuso (144) ........................520 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132
Donald G. Campbell (608). .. _......................... 2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 91108

YOUTH ACTIVITIES

INSURANCE

Douglas N. Cairns (207) ............................ 17831 Lerene Dr., Yorba Linda 92689
William G. Skilling (349) ........................... 3924 Robley Terrace, Oakland 94611
Edwin F. Collins (369) .... .......................... 13330 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 90049
Roy W. Troutman, Jr. (191) .................... 103 Ridgewood Dr., San Rafael 94901
Richard Simon (509) .............................. ...................... 308 Coast St., Willits 95490
John H. H ardy (352) ........ 3500 W. Manchester Blvd., No. 29, Inglewood 90305
Arnold G. Brocksen, Sr. (504) ................. .4472 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 90807
William D. Spruance (744) .................. 921 Burkhart Ave., San Leandro 94579
Clarence G. Rosenstock (22) .................. 1838 - 32nd Ave., San Francisco 94122
A Beach Becker (464) ..................................240 - 5th Ave., San Francisco 94118
John A. Mord, Jr. (22) ..........................559 Miramar Ave., San Francisco 94112
Robert J. Lehman (507) ................................ 958 Kenwood St., Inglewood 90301
Charles W. Conley (502) .......................... 2220 Rumrill Blvd., San Pablo 94806

James T. Farr, Jr. (455) ..................................711 Clarinda Ave., Daly City 94015
T. James Carlisle (215) ................................................ Box 276, Twain Harte 95383
John R. McKee (478) ........................................ 183 Miramonte Dr., Moraga 94556
Irwin D. Adams (445) ......................................2745 Tesla A.ve, Los Angeles 90039
Elmer C. Gunther (354) ................................ 726 -15th Ave., San Francisco 94.ll8

CEMETERIES
Basil R. Gillett (124) ...............................- .......5362 Newland Rd., Paradise 95969
Marcel M. Baer (8) ........... - .......................................346 E . Lyons St., Sonora 95370
Vincent V. Lake (578) ............................... _................. 1507 W. Vine St., Lodi 95240
J. Wilbur Combes (149) ........................................816 Willow St., Susanville 96130

420

421

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES

Kern H. Copeland, Jr. (535) ........................4614 Finley Ave., Los Angeles 90027
Niles 0. Millar, Jr. (268) ................................1141 W. Barstow Ave., Fresno 93705
William H . Lambert (13)................................ 537 Coyote St., Nevada City 95959
J ack Pettit (22) .................... Stewart Hotel, 351 Geary St., San Francisco 94102
Donald L. Batten (22) .......................................... 29 Mercury Ave., Tiburon 94920
Lloyd R. Trout (128) ........................................1826 S. Watson Ave., Visalia 93277
Alfred E . Hopkins (349) ............................. .1002 Ashmount Ave., Oakland 94610

Benjamin M. Weiss (42) ..........................1491 S. Rexford Dr., Los Angeles 90035
Herbert Hargrave, Jr. (467) ................................ 8105 Verna Dr., Van Nuys 91402
Walter H. Wayman (672) .............................. 429 Marigoldi Corona del Mar 92625
Melville H. Nahin (520) ............................ 6399 Wilshire B vd., Los Angeles 90048
Julian Wolf (529) ........................ 9763 W. Pico Blvd., Rm. 202, Los Angeles 90035

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
Harold S. Stein, Jr. (374) ....................1777 Eucalyptus Dr., San Francisco 94132
Russell G. Worth (624) ........................................ 5278 Manila Ave., Oakland 94618
C. John Bellman, Jr. (541) ....................................546 Neilson St., Berkeley 94707
Herbert H. Eling (455) ............................ 350 Moncada Way, San Francisco 94127
Sam S. Sato (461) ................................................ 64 Sutter St., San Francisco 94120
Fitzgerald Ames (388) ................................20 Villa Terrace, San Francisco 94114
Stevenson R. Biggart (464) ........................3478 Blackhawk Rd., Lafayette 94549
Harold E. Kilian (354) ............................ 695 Noe St., Apt. 5, San Francisco 94114
Lanning F. Spieth (412) ....................... - ........... 42 Las Flories Dr., Calexico 92231
Lewis H. Meek (605)... .....................................6367 Church St., Los Angeles 90042
Le~is H. Johnson (370) ................................ 154 Westlawn Ave., Daly City 94015
Haig D. Soghomoman (169) ........................ 1925 - 17th Ave., San Francisco 94116
John P. Russell (557) ......................................1702 Slauson, Redondo Beach 90278
George Koregelos (61) ................................... .470 Mountain Ave., P iedmont 94611
Orlyn M. McCartney (727) ......................1439 El Miradero Ave., Glendale 91201
William H. Scott, Asst. Lib. (435) . 355 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 94127

HAWAIIAN ADVISORY
Leslie E. Wood (609) ................................................1808 "Q" St., Sacramento 95814
Albert F. Ross (254) ..................................................P.O. Box 1936, Redding 96001
Herman J. Geller (42) ..............................865 Comstock Ave., Los Angeles 90024

AUDITING
Phil N. Mye~s (430) ........................................ 355 Park Plaza Dr., Daly City 94015
R~uJ;>en E. Gilbert (120) ................ 355 Park Plaza Dr., Apt. 314, Daly City 94015
William A. Cohendet (370) .......................... 1557 Balboa Way, Burlingam e 94011
Paul Balck (144) ............................................1844- 28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
George T. Rowse (191) .................................................... 7 La Rosa, Larkspur 94939

SPECIAL CODE REVISION & COMMISSION
Harland P. Huebner (445) ............................ 610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
Andrew J. Nocas (641) .................................... 7008 Kittyhawk, Los Angeles 90045
John B. Watts (637) ............................................ 358 - 20th St., Santa Monica 90402
~len B. Gre~h am (348) ........................3028 Muscupiabe, San Bernardino 92495
Richard L. Riemer (778) ............1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204, Santa Ana 92701
Elbert W. Davis (571) ............................................2908 Russell St., Berkeley 94705

PUBLIC INFORMATION
Carl U. Zachrisson (144) ..................................45 - 25th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Hugh J. Cameron (650) ............... .424 S. Broadway, Rm. 410, Los Angeles 90013
Warren D. Hanson (435) ..........................519 Teresita Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Glendall W. McDermott (57).......................... 1046 Vallejo St., Santa Rosa 95404

SUB-COMMITTEE FOR THE COMMUNICATION OF
THE FUNDAMENTALS OF FREEMASONRY
John R. Nocas (537) ... ...............3500 W. Manchester, Apt. 224, Inglewood 90305
J ames C. Belda (400) .. ............................ 1636 McDonald Way, Burlingam e 94010
John C. Brown (429) ....................................... .......147 W. 12th St., P ittsburg 94565
Herbert W. Cahn (120) ................................ 3147 Balboa St., San Francisco 94121
David C. Lee (492) ........... - ................ ..... 9965 W oodruff Ave., Temple City 91780
Chester R. Rogers (35) ................................5761 Campanile Dr., San Diego 93115

EFFICIENCY STUDY
W. Stanley Davis (144) ............................465 California St., San Francisco 94104
Guy B . Mize (368) ..............................................1238 Idlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
James Craven (770) ............................ 331 MacArthur Blvd., San Leandro 94577

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
Paul A. Pflueger (370) ........................................ Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Donald G. Campbell (608) ............................ 2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 91108
Jack F. Bowley (370) .......................................... 94 Melanie L ane, Atherton 94025
Arthur Linsk (529) ...................................... 6357 Colgate Ave., Los Angeles 90048
John A. Sickenberger (392) ............ Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653

BOARD OF CONTROL
James E. Wellet (608) ........................ 2604 Orange Grove Ave., Alhambra 91803
Varnum Paul (169) ............ 1170 Sacramen to St., Apt. 17B, San Francisco 94108
Howard S. Fisher (620) ........................2465 Calle Almonte, Santa Barbara 93105
Warren W. Wildman (336) ................................ 1024 Fontana Dr., Alameda 94501
Ronald E. Jones (341 ) ........................................ 6096 Cozzens St., San Diego 92122

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
William R. Hervey, Jr. (202) .................. 6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
Henry F. Puthoff, Jr. (796) ........3456 Broadmoor Blvd., San B ernardino 92404
J. Neil Hanson (761)......................................619 Wildwood Lane, P alo Alto 94303

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON PUBLICATION BOARD
Chester R. MacPhee (455) .................... 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Edward H. Siems (560) ........................ 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Newcomb Candee, Editor-in~Chief (614) ..531 N. Rossmore, Los Angeles 90004

'i22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ENDOWMENT BOARD
Morris C. Guss (42) ........................... - ...3676 S . Broadway Pl., Los Angeles 90007
Ca rl A. Green (670) ........................................13908 E . Sunset Dr., Whittier 90602
Gladstone Gillette (181) ............................ 97 Coronado Circle, Santa Rosa 95405
William H . J ohnson (820) ................... - ...............472 E. 16th St., Costa Mesa 92627
Richard A. Jolly (167) ........................................ 37627 Niles Blvd., Fremont 94536
Ralph A. L ar son (578) .............................. 10719 Freeman Ave., Inglewood 90304
Gaston C. Aubineau (768) ................10401 Havenhurst St., Granada Hills 91344
John H . Shaffer (726)..._··- ···························36093 Panorama Dr., Yucaipa 92399
John F . Steiger (334) ..............................1916 Greenville Dr., West Covina 91790
Jack F. Bowley (370) .......................................... 94 Melanie Lane, Atherton 94025
Raymond Kentro, Jr. (620) ............................ 2534 Greyling Dr., San Die~o 92123
Thomas K. H. Wong (443) ................................ 1318 Artesian St., Honolu u 96814
Richard J. Jolly (265) ............................................ 1314 Solano St., Coming 96021
Gamet Ringsmith (603) .......................................... 30 Donna Way, Oakland 94605
Myron L . Olmsted (336) ................................ 1980 Vining Dr., San Leandro 94579
Jack P eloian (383) .......................................................... 39775 Rd. 128, Cutler 93615
George Calderwood (327) ............................ 645 E. Bixby Rd., Long Beach 90807
Howard Ma~ill (800) ................................710 S. Hobart Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Jack 0. Davis (623) ................................12621 Hesby St., North Hollywood 91607
C. J . Conrad Spencer (296) ..........................2107 Frankfort St., San Diego 92110
J ames B . Bouick (139) ...................................... 2704 Hallmark Dr., Belmont 94002
Albert O'Malley (3) ............................................. .417 - 22nd St., Sacramento 95816
Henry 0 . H all (486) .................................. 1751 Los Robles Dr., Bakersfield 93306
David Wrigh t (462) ........... - ....................... 1391 Eighth Ave .. San Francisco 94122
Calvin L . H eim (675) .................................................... 1316 Payne, Modesto 95351
Clyd e Prickett (206)... ........................ - ............... 526 Covena Ave., Modesto 95351
Gerald E . Grun ert (147)..................................................505 "0" St., Fortuna 95540
George I. Gentry (193) ..................·-········-···········Pigeon Point Rd., Eureka 95501
R ussell E . Harris (lG) .................................................... 146 Cary Dr., Auburn 95603
Harold A . Dunham (242) .......... ·-········· .734 Sea Ranch Dr., Santa Barbara 93105
Sidney I. Grossman (803) ..........................................553 Palma Dr., Salinas 93901
George C. Poloynis (773) ............................ 685 Magnolia Ave. , Bakersfield 93305
Donald H. E xter (613) ................................... .4540 - 39th Ave., Sacramento 95824

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Donald G. Ca mpbell (608), President... ....... 2730 Lorain Rd., San Marino 91108
William A. Revitt (58), Vice-President.. 5951 Wymore Way, Sacramento 95822
Edward H. Sie ms (560) , Secretary ...... .1111 California St., San Fra ncisco 94108
Paul A. Pfluger (370). Treasurer. .. .....................Mills Blcig .. San Francisco 94104
Myron E . Smith (394) ............................... .461 S. Boylston St., Los Angeles 90017
L aurence E. Dayton (61) ..................................5862 Moraga Ave., Oakland 94611
Guy B . Mize (368) ............................................1238 ldlewood Rd., Glendale 91202
Ralph H . Head (352) .......... P.O. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 90054
Alfred W. Odle (449) ................................ ....1017 Sprinirfield Dr., Millbrae 94030
Robert A. Crigler (636) ............................ 4055 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Horace H . Mitchell (570) ............................ 23 Santa E lena Ave., Daly City 94015
Lester S. McElwain (403) ...................................... 1419 Broadway, Oakland 94612
William H. Price (259) ..........................................._...P.O. Box 72, Riverside 92502
GAIL H . DAV1D. SUPERINTENDENT
MASONIC HOME AT DECOTO (ADULTS)
P.O. Box 754, Union City 94587
Telephone 471-3434
JAMES C. BLAINE, SUPERINTENDENT
MASONIC HOME AT COVINA (CHILDREN)
20336 E. Badillo St., Covina 91722
Telephone 331-0541

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

423

CA L I F 0 R N I A M A S 0 N I C M E M 0 R I A l
TEMPLE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Ira W. Coburn (2 16), Presid ent............ 2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 94110
DeWald M. Baum (42), Vice-President..9409 W. Pico Blvd., L os Angeles 90035
Samuel I. Jacobs (216) .................................. 946 Mills Bldg., San Francisco 94104
Everett C. Ross (259) ......................................2529 Piedmont Dr., Riverside 92509
James Craven (770) .............................. 331 M acArthur Blvd., San Leandro 94577
Otto Rohwer (3) ......................................................3344 "H" St., Sacramento 95816
H erbert A. Huebner (445) ............................610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles 90014
George D. Gavin, Mgr.
1111 California St.
San Francisco 94108
776-4702

BOARD OF DIRECTORSCALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
John S. Hunt (445), President
1616 Travelers Bldg., 3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Lyle E. P atton (22), Vice-President & Treasurer
.
604 Mission St., Rm . 702, San Francisco 94105
Herbert Smith (677). Secretary..................202-D Ch ev~ Chase, Glend~ le 91204
Garey B. Weibel (784)........................................................ .0. Box 9, Ch1co 95926
Carl B. Munck (564) ....................................................5940 Zinn Dr., Oakla}d ~4U 1
Frederick Bolte (21)................................................649 Onaha St., Honolu u 6 6
John M Gordon (202) ..............................3446 Amesbury Rd..:r Los Angeles 90027
Ralph Fenster (520) ............. .......5215 S. Sepulveda, Unit 4,1<,;, Culver City 90230
M Richard Andrews (242) .................. 1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93105
E~erett Houser (504) ........... - ....................... 260 Atlan tic Ave., Long Beach 90802
Pete B. Florio (823) ............................................816 Sierra Vista, Alhambra 91801
Melvin A. Pixley (584) .............................. 3828 E. Slauson Ave., Maywood 90270
Paul S Boren (551) .................................................. 1947 Ti ffin Rd., Oakland 94602
Duane ·w. Wheeler (202) ........... ..................... 1002 San~iper, Palm Desert 92260
Fred Hack (61) ............................................................. 160 ova Dr., Piedmont 94611

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated)
No.of
Mile.
No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow. Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
l.. ..R. J. Antracoli, M ................ $
H. Pardeilhan
L. H. Sondecker, SW
B. Pasdermadjian
H. L. Hollin1I_sworth, JW
J. Smith
H. Mueller, GOrg
18
....
T.
E. Gentry
E . C. Lohmeyer. Insp
19.... D. A. Lipps, SW.................... 15.60
V. Bennehoff
R. L. Gossett, JW
J.M. Cody
R. L. Snyder
P. Cowgill
E. R. Laversin
20....J. V. Willis. M........................ 17.20
D. E. Marsh
A. B. Francis. SW
H. M. McKinley, Jr.
D. S. Bullock, JW
H. N. Richards, GL
H. W. Orear, Jr.
S. C. Shenk
D. M. Cameron. Insp
R. V. Anderson
2....P. G. H aigh, JW.................. .. 44.60
J. J. Bastian
3-K. F. White. M ..................... . 17.20
R. W. Lena u
A. P. W ordlow , SW
D. J. M orrow
R. F. Lewis, JW
R. W. Reynolds
W . C. Kasmire
H. T. Silvius, Jr.
5....W. J. Youles, M ................... .
7.20
M. R. Wilson
J. A. Trent, SW
R. L. Zehrbach
J. T. W ong , JW
2 1. ...J. D. Pr ingle, M
..... 285. 09
0. F. Carpenter. Insp
K. F. H ee, JW
A. I. H enslin
F. Bolte. lnsp
W. C. Roy
22 ..W. C. G. Chandler. M
8.... J. L. Gray, SW...................... 26.20
J. R. Thornton, SW
D. M. Stewart, Jr.
L. R. Frichette
R. Mohr, Jr.
9.... L. H. Moline, M...................... 24.00
J. A. Mord, Jr.
F. J. Jaqua y
L. E. P atton
10 . . F. Guidon, M ........................ .. 10.00
C. G. Rosenstock
R. J. Lancaster, SW
0. G. Voi ght
R. Williams. JW
R. A. Wertsc h
L. B. Mark, Insp
J. S. Greenley
23 ....L. H. Pingree, M.... ............... 28.60
T. Thomas, Jr .. SW
12.... C. A. Tibbils. M....................
9.40
W.R. Carney, JW
K.C.Cook.SW
E. Farley, lnsp
R. N. Yarborough, JW
C. Kernan, Insp
24....C. A. Lantz, M........................ 33.00
R. F. Atwood
B. J. Rader, SW
D. Kleiman, lnsp
13....W. H. Lambert, ER............. . 29.60
J. Menzies
14.... H. E. Whitaker, M.............. .. 9.00
J. J. Wallace, SW
.. ........... 27.60
25.... E. E. Olson. M....
~. C. Owen. JW
D. R. Ca mpbell. SW
P. E. Stokes
J. A. Hall, JW
L.B. Butt
16.... R. E. Harris. M................... .. 24.00
J. G. Hoffacker
W. B. French, S\V
J. D. Medley, JW
26 .... R. H . C a in, M ........ .
26.40
W. E. Marshall. Insp
R. D. Boom, SW
E. H. E llison, JW
17.... Iribarren. M
J. A. Feth. Insp
. M ontchatre. SW
27 .... Not Represented
. J. O esterman. JW
A. L. Armand. Insp
30.... F. J. Mooney. M
L. Berthier
D. C. Ubhoff. SW
C. Gulbengay
P.A. Walters. JW
R. Malfanti
L. L. Aslanian

i

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

N o. of
Mile.
Representatives
A llow.
Lodge
R. H. Bradley
V. L. Bruno
A. W. Crumpton
J. Icardi
F. A. Kujawa
S. Ledda
N. G. Michelini
R. W . Moore
32 . .. E . L. W ildhaber, M.............. 22.80
J. A. Kimmell
33 .... W. A. Bailey. M.................... 29.40
J. R. Dennison. S W
35 ....C. A. Rogers, M.... ..... ...
104.40
A. M. Muir, SW
L. C. Fink, Jr., JW
S . F. Bolger. GP
G . E. Pledger, Insp
J. W. T aylor. Insp
C. Chadrow
A. J. Fulkerson
H.J. Kircher
J. H. Leach
F. J. H. Rickon
G. K. Smith
37.... E. McBain, SW.................... 63.40
38... .L. W . Peters, M.................... 14.40
R. L. Mayfield
A. J. Thorp
E .W. Trefts
40.... L. A. Lasell, Sr., M................ 17.20
B. D. Minter, SW
D. C. Christenson. JW
C . E. Clause
6.80
4 1....W . O 'Neill, M........................
J. F. Dehnert, SW
R. J. Rushton, JW
G. W . T aylor
W . T aylor
E. C. W ebb
42....E. C . Levy, M....
. ........ 80.60
D. M. Baum, SW
H. J. Geller. GMar
M. M. Codon
P. L. Goldstein
M. C. G uss
M. Schwartzman
J. D. W eisberg
43.... J. F. Mainzer
F. J. Wentz
44....R. E . Clark, M
F. B. Childers, SW
S. F. Steen, JW
R. G . Meyer
I. J. Robertson
G . M. Travis
G. H. \ Vierda
45 .... L. F. Smallwood, M.............. 73.80
J. A. Stephens, SW

425

No. of
M ile.
Lodge
Re pre&entstives
A llow.
16... J. A. Beck, M ........................ 18.00
L. H. Buchheister. Ins_p
50.... R. V . Whitele_x. SW............ 34.00
F. R. W right, jW
5 1....B. E. Eddy. M...................... 27.20
T . Steel
9.60
55....J. G. E rnest, M........................
R. F. Grindle, SW
F. X. Wendling, JW
K. M. Battelle
E . G . Long
56.... H. H. Ward, ER........
28.60
57....W. H. Daniels, M.................. 10.80
L. G . Danskin. SW
H. P. Adams, Insp
R. A. Miller
L. C. Shea
E. L. Sw anson
58.... W . E . Zimmerman, M.......... 17.20
G. D. Kale, SW
A. M. Reiss, JW
L. D. Armstrong
H . S. Mcintire
W . A. Revitt
R. C. Ryan
59....P. R. Thygesen, SW............ 34.60
60.... J. E . Roberts, SW .................. 44.80
G. D. Y ale, Insp
0. A. M yers
61....T . W. Evans, M
G. Koregelos, SW
J. C. Macintire, JW
t. E. Dayton, PGM
F. Emerson
R. M. Mil.ls
22.00
64 ....R. R. Downey_. SW
R. A. Prine, JW
65 .... R. E . Babcoke, SW.............. 26.20
H.B. Wanzer
68 .... L. F. VanBuskirk, ER............ 15.60
B. L. Faunce
70 ... .K. M. H opper. ER................ 23.60
N . G. Kerhoulas, lnsp
76....D. D. P itman, E R. ................. 28.00
78 .... Not Represented
79 ....G. D. Chappelle. M................ 56.80
M. E. O tt. SW
J. W . C unning. Insp
J. M. Bowersox
80....C. A. Royalty, M.................. 24.40
P. M . Mecum, [nsp
81....D. M. Evans, M.................... 16.80
W . P. W ilson
84....A. M. Clark, SW................ 37.20
6.20
87.... J. R. Malon:J, M....................

~: t:~~~t. rvJW
J. Anderson

426

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mile.
No.of
Mile.
No. of
Allow. Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
Lodge
RepreM!ntatlves
M . C. Baker
I. A. Berliner
L. B. Chambers
I. Betz
J. K. Cothran
H. W.Cahn
M. I. Dawson
A. Farbe-r
L. G. Dickinson
R. E. Gilbert
J. J. Nicholas, Jr.
L. I. Goldkind
J. Olson
M.A. Harband
A. L. Parfet
B. J. Katz
R.R. Prigge
I. C. Mintz
K. J. Wales
A. I. Stoll
B. Wichels
C. L. \Vee.ks
27.80
89 ....L. Tarr. M...............
5.00
122.... N. G. Alumbaugh, M ............
B. G. May. SW
D. P. C o ughlan. SW
91.... M . Reed, JW.......................... 66.40
R. M. Hinds, Insp
93 .... F. D. Hall, SW...................... 13.20
123....G. G . Miller. M...... ... .. ... 14.00
J. Wichels. JW
J. L. C onger, JW
R. B. Duer
R. C. Jensen
A. W . Robertson
95.... K. E. Munden, M .................. 26.00
B. C. Klotz, SW
124 .. .T. L. Malian, SW.................. 33.00
B. R. Gillett
98._.F, M. Montersino, M ........... 40.60
R. W. Loring. SW
J. F. Presley
E. L. Bacon
126 ... J. L. Worthingto n
M. I. Smith
127.... R. T. Christi;ms. M
99 .... H. W. Krebs. M.................... 25.60
F. Deubert. SW
S . K. Brantley, Jr., JW
H. Friedrich, JW
D .R. Fretz
A. Custcns
\V. Haaq
101....R. H. Lynn. Sr., ER.............. 29.80
T . J. Edwards
A. G. Matthes
29.60
M. Schredl
103...R. A . Johnson, SW....
44.RO
K. W. H arris, JW
128....G. E. Chrissakis. M .
J. C. Pannell, SW
D . K. Baldwin, Insp
D. H;iskell. JW
S. K. Parker
H. C. Davis, Insp
83.20
104....D. L. Shively. SW
D. G. Creager
L. L. Spaldinq. JW
B. P. Kellman
58.40
106.... W. C. Graham, SW. .. ...
129 ....F. R. Fapp, Jr .. M .................. 14.6CI
J.E. Morton, Jr.
19.00
110.... P. A. Buob. M................. .. . 18.00
131 ...J. E. Rooney, M ..... .....
H. W. T aylor, SW
]. Luce, SW
G. Bell. JW
111....J. W. Wright, M.................. 32.40
112 .... Not Rrpresented
R. R. Murr. SW
1O.RCl
E. S. Stephens. TW
134....G. E. Justice, ER....
T . Meriam, PGM
W.W . Wilcox
J. A. Coulter, lnsp
135....0 . S. Olson, M........................ 18.60
136.... N. L. Waxman, Jr .. M
E . C. Arbuckle
T. Skol!, SW
W. C. Brouillard
W. M. Conner
R. B. Larter, JW
S. C. Levin
J. B. Smith
H . Ross
112....J. A. Shaw, SW.................... 21.40
I 13.... M. S. Mara!. M
139... l. A. Affleck, M
M. S. Hawley, SW
D. Mt-llinger, SW
W . L. Billinqs. JW
B. S. Atkins, JW
E. E. Ross. Insp
J.B. Bouick
117.... G. L. Adams. M.................... 17.20
W. A . H . Fleischt-r
M. Maklary. SW
W. J. H arlow, Jr.
S. I. Bonn. Insp
K. A. H oward
I 20....B. J. Hartman, M
C. S . McGlothlin
M. W . Greene. SW
140.... R. K. Burger, M ................... 17.60
K. C. Birnbaum
W.R. C arter
R. A. Klinger, lnsp
11 I.... Not Represented

Mile.
Allow.
(13. ... D. 0. Updegraff, M.............. 17.80
R. E. Burdg, Insp
li·L .. P. C. Hantzsche, M
W. S. Davis
P . G. Fairlie
G.D. Gavin
C. T. Hecker
H. H . Hutchison
E. T . Mancuso
I. A . Russell
R. E. Shupe
T. R. Smiley
A. J. Swank
J.C. Wiesner
145.... A . R. Barrett, Jr., M............ 10.40
C .W. Kawa
146.... J. Hannason, M.................... 23.40
D . D. Thornton, SW
J. 0. Raffety, lnsp
F. W. Sandelin
147.... E. W. Gossett, SW.............. 53.20
A. E. Pollard, lnsp
149....E. R. White, ER...... ........... 54.00
E.G. Van Tassell, Insp
150....E. 0. Young, M......... ........... 34.40
E. H. Ayers, SW
156....B. G . Treat, M...................... 16.20
R. A. Poarch. S\V
E. D avis, JW
C. E. Sinclair, Insp
F. Carrion
'
C. S till
161....A. E. Buss, ]W......... ............. 23.00
164....A. I. Copeland, ER.............. 41.20
166.... S. F. Oornsife, M
K. W. Kyle. SW
0 . R. Griffith, JW
R. E. Flathmann
L. W. Gray
J.C. Kohlbecher
H . F. Lutticken
W. Peddicord
R. Taylor
6.60
167.... S. R. Kauffmann. M ..............
0 . Barrett, SW
T. Parker, JW
W. Beck
D . Ferguson
R. A. Jolly
5.20
168 ....W. L. Henry, M....................
L. E. Wilson . SW
H . L. Pope. JW
J. D . Lomax
169....R. P. B;itchelor. M
R. J. Shuman, SW
R. E. Stephenson, JW
J. E. Hursh
R. 0. Lintner

No. of
Lodge

Repre.~ntatiues

427

Mile.
No. of
- Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
V . Paul
H. D. Soghomonian
173 .... P. K. Frame, M...................... 20.00
J. W. Mahon, Jr .. SW
W. ]. Dell, JW
174 .... L. J. Crain
9.20
175 ....L. C. Dowell, M ....................
P. E. Rodgers, SW
R. C. S tokes, JW
J. R. Ledbeter, lnsp
G. H. Rebstock
H.V. St. Clair
J. D. Yasser
178 ...R. Andrews. M...................... 90.80
J. F. Rich, SW
T . E. Benson
179.... P. L. Strelow, ER................ 31.20
F. A. Valentine, ln.sp
180....W. B. King
J.C. Werner
18 1....D. W . W inters. M ... ........... 12.60
0 . E. Winkler, SW
J. W . Wright, lnsp
C. C. Doa ne
L. T . Dubose
G. Gillette
182... .D. Q . Adams, Jr., M ............ 18.60
183....B. R. Lang, ER. .................... 21.40
S.Jackson
H. I. Ketterman
184....S. Westall, ER...................... 43.40
185....C. P. Dingman, M ................ 25.80
A. R. Richardson
68.80
186.... K. E . Dowling, ER ........
W . A . Krueger. Insp
16.00
187.... P. F . H arralson. M ....
J. A. Chappell. Jr .. SW
G. S. Hunter, JW
E. A. Harrison
188 ....W . C. Herbert. M
J. Weldon, SW
K. M . Abshire, JW
W. H . Nutting , Jr .. Insp
V . D . Arnold
L. P. Boyles
J.T. H ill
G. W. Ruuth
190....W . G. Harris. M .................. 4fi.OO
A. T. Baker. SW
191....C. P . Thomas, M
H.A. Gulbransen, SW
J. W. Hill.JW
W. \V. H oneyman
J.C. Meagor
G. T . Rowse
W . M . Vanderbilt
192.... J. Butera. M. ................ .......... 68.00
G. W. Neikirk, SW
H. D. Vosburgh, JW

428

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mile.
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
E. R. Kiesel. JW
R. L. Norton
211.. .. H. A . H ermansen, ER.......... 19.00
R. J. Harrington. Jr., Insp
7.40
:
212 ....J. W. Price. M
0 . L. Gilbert, SW
G. J. Anderson
E. S. Black, JW
R. Fernandez
J. Cochran
F. Filippo
G. Gilliam
C. J. Pa lmer
W.Grubb
214....C. D . Rhoads. M....... .......... 73.20
13.40
195....R. H . Pleasants. M ..
T. L. Callaway. SW
H.J. McDowell, SW
J. W. Joe, Jr .. JW
196.... D. E. Neil. SW ................... . 44.80
H. V . Keir
198.... J. G. Martinez, M ................ .. 85.00
H. L. Maynard
T. R. Mo lloy. SW
C. D. Strimple
E. M . Eklund. JW
W. G . Lundquist
215 .... F. B. Hartley. M
E . L. M cLachlan
H . A. M iller, lnsp
199....D . V . Morici. SW................ 24.60
P. A . C. Harris
G. D e Ghetaldi. Insp
216... .I. W. Coburn. PGM
200.... C. G. Shane, M .................. .. 38.20
S. H . Brownlee
G. C. Eden. JW
S. I. Jacobs
13.00
..
..............
.
M
Johnson,
R.
1....R.
20
B. F. Lurie
SW
C. A. Nettles,
B. Silberstein
F. T . S tevens
217.... D. S. AlbriQht. Sr.. SW........ 23.40
J. W. Tutt
S. Cicin. JW
20 2.. .. K. A . Avakian, M ............... . 80.60
D. M. Kueny, Insp
M. L. Tillman. SW
218.... B. L. Maranville, M.............. 8.00
J.M . Gordon
R. J. Page. SW
W. R. Hervey, Jr.
N. W . Jacobson. JW
J. L. Nelson
83.60
220....H . A. Hoskins, M....
C. J. Robert
A. J. Goldbeck, SW
203.... J. W . Hicks. JW................... . 21.00
R. S. T urrell. JW
204.... A. R. Black. M ................... . 21.60
C. T . Shirley. lnsp
J. L. Alsop. SW
86.00
221....J. M. Dell. SW..........
C. F. H ushbeck. JW
222 .... F. R. D owty, M ...................... 20.80
M. Michalec. Insp
R. R. Rohland. SW
A. Schoch
C. L. D uncan, SGD
205.... J. M. Jobe, M ......................... . 33.60
224....P. L. Foster. M...... ............. 57.80
K . K. Andersen, SW
G. J. Ferguson. SW
J. S . Babb, Insp
G. H. Cremeans. JW
A. R. Kirkpatrick
J. C. Carpenter. lnsp
206.... W. F. King. M ..................... . 18.20
225 .... W. E. Baird, M
E . E . Cheves, SW
T. W. Slusser. SW
V. M . Biorklund. JW
E.W. Jo hnson
W. L. Hurd, Insp
226.... J. T . E stoll, M
J. L. McDonald
W.W. Grush . SW
207 .... L. R. Campbell. M ................ 86.20
H . M. Davies. JW
S. J. Caldaronello. SW
R. E. Giesin
D. N . Cairns
G. E. Watts
H . E. Kirk
208 ....J. W. M cPherson, M ........... . 13.60 228.... J. H. Snyder, M.................... !HO
P. C. Morgan, SW
J.C . Lewis. JW
R. R. Haussler
H . C. Brown, Insp
6.20
229 .... A. G . Espinosa. M ................
D . N . Baker
F. L. Davis. Jr .. SW
209 ....E. N. Biddies. M .................. 46.40
P. J. Billings. JW
C. 0 . Blodgett, SW
H. Gee
T. E . Baumherger, JW
R. 0. Gloeckner
C. J. Weir, Jr. , Insp
G. A. H einzman
10.00
210 .... c':"E1~~~~~
W. B. Heller

No.of
Repre$1!ntative~
Lodge
R. H . Paine, Insp
A. W. Kincaid

Mile.
Allow.

5~::::~~k~eM::;;,te~····················

{i

..................

No. of

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mile.
No. of
A llow.
Representatives
Lodge
D. H. MacLean
H. A. Mini, Jr.
W. D . Myska
R.H . N ivarel
W . D . Peden
E . B. Pierce, Jr .
0. H. Recknagel
D. C. Robiso n
C. E. Shoaf
230....R. Cassady, M ........................ 26.80
C. B. Campbell
E. D. Price
231....J. D. Rohrbough
232 ....E . A. Fulenwider, JW .......... 55.80
233....A. J. Friedlund
234 ....R. A. Scolari, ER.................... 51.00
235.... G. M . Kober. ER.................... 76.40
236....C. N. M atsen, ER................. 20.60
237....W. S. Ashbrook. SW.......... 47.20
J. Jenkins
J. E . McGlothlin
2'1 0.... W. G. D avison, ER.............. 24.80
2'1 1....0. M. Sloan, M
D. A. Poole. SW
W. E. Stiles
2'12 ....J. A . Bennett, M .... ........ ...... 6&.00
G. R. Schock, SW
J. F. Potter. JW
M. R. Andrews
H . A. Dunha m
5.40
2'13.... R. J. Matheison: M ....
A. C. Ma rsh. SW
J. C. Speight. JW
A. R. Fleming, lnsp
R. E . Gilbert
H.J . Keim
W. T. Smith
A. F. Taylor
244 ....J. D. Fisk. M
T. F . Miller, SW
L. K. Bain
24 5.... W . Rehm , ER........................ 29.20
246.... B. A. E ckerson, JW.............. 87.20
E . C. Lowe, Insp
247.... K. M. Emmert, M.................. 36.60
G. P. C ole, SW
D . C. W esterhout, JW
R.R. Crawford
G . E. Hiatt
V. D. Roullard
W.H. T owne
248....W. L. Stewart. SW.............. 72.20
250.... Not Represented
253 .... D. 0 . A une. M...................... 15.60
A . L. Hayes. In.s.p
G . W. Story

429

Mile.
No.of
A llow.
Representatiues
Lodge
254....R. M . Perkins, M.................. 43.40
W. H. Schooler, lnsp
D.C. McRae
A. F. Ross
255.... J. H . Card, SW.................... 42.60
S . F. Passley, lnsp
256....H. A. Browning, M.............. 18.80
R. M . Lea, SW
J. P . Murphy . JW
C. A . Lewis. JGD
G. L. Christensen. l nsp
258....M . E. Pedlar, M
92.00
259 .... M . Daniel. M ...................
P. 0. Walter, }\V
\V. H . Price. AGL
S. Babcock
M. I. Brewer
R. L. H aglund
B. C. Morton
E. E. Stockebrand
C. E. Wester
2W ....G . Konstantoooulos, M
F. H. King, SW
F. W . Alger, JW
U . G . P atropulos. AGL
B. C. vonKo nsky. AGL
E. S . H op p. PGM
R. E. Soroacco. lnsp
L. Anderson
G. A . Benoit
B. L. Canning
S . J. D ean. Jr.
E. A. Nylund
F. B. Scullin
A. C. vonKonsky
261....W. E. Owens, M.................. 22.80
262... .J. W. Paulson. Jr., SW........ 57.40
R. C. Bowen. JW
F. E. Fritts
264....T. D. Wilkins. SW................ 47.20
E. G. Greenhaw, JW
D. Meredith
P. C. Reiner
265.... R. J. Jolley, JW.................... 31.00
267....G. 0. Wood. M ..................... 17.60
L . 0. T emplet()n, SW
R. E . Bruce. JW
268... F. W. N ewton. M
L. A. Camphrll. SW
C. L. Porter. JW
N . 0 . Millar. Insp
R. 0 . Gilmore
C. R. Ratkovich
G. Thomson
R. T. W ilson
269.... Not Represented

430

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mile.
No . of
Allow.
Representatiue.s
Lodge
271....M. E. Murphy, M.................. 31.00
C. A. Butler
272....J. W. Smithson, M.................. 82.20
C.H. Culp, SW
R. F. Taylor, JW
H. Archibald
W . R. Van Houten
273.... H. E . Corson, M.................... 83.40
D. Inskeep, SW
C. A. Flint
B. R. Mooney
0. D. 'Neddie
R. L. Williams
27L.C. L. Kotatski, SW................ 49.60
T. W. T arwater, JW
H. 0. Pope, Jr., Insp.
E . M. Lynch
275.... M. P. Lee, SW...................... 19.00
F. Reinsmith. JVV
R. W. Dunwoody, Insp.
277 .... Not Represented
278.... H. F. Roggelin, M ....... -......... 80.60
M. L. Howard, SW
F. B. Calvery
H. V. Spender
279....E. D. Faber. SW.................... 42.80
R. G. Goddard, JW
280....G. S. Sorenson, SW.............. 32.20
281.. .. J. C. Ames, SW...... ·-··········-·- 41.20
282 .... L. Simonic, ER_...................... 18.20
283.... D. W. Freeman, SW............ 105.20
J. F. Liesman, JW
R. P. Clark
286....J. B. Cook, ER........................ 40.60
P. L. Turner, lnsp.
287.... R. E. Foxhoven, SW............ 77.00
·w. W. Partridge, lnsp.
J. D. Kinzy
288.... A. H. English, ER-................ 24.60
289 .... L. C. Beers, M ........................ 94.40
W. G. Enochs. SW
290 .... R. W. Meier, M ...................... 80.60
N. P. Cone, SW
C. C. Cadman
J. A. Crosby
C. C. Orrell
291. ...J. E . Samples, M.................... 76.40
G. W . Ashton. SW
B. S. Orr. JW
292 .... N. Bloor, M............................ 10.60
R. N. Neal. SW
G. L. Del Tour. Insp.
293 .... G. M. Lawson. M.................. 86.60
J.C. Seibert. SW
'r. Lowe, JW
J. R. Craft. lnsp.
M. W .Gould

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatiue.s
Lodge
294....D. F. Conklin. SW................ 40.60
P. P. Johnson
R. N. Rouch
295....D. Owens, SW...................... 13.80
N. L. Richardson, JW
D.R. Orton
C. L. Wadlow
296....W. R. Lee, M .......................... 104.40
W . D. WoolseY,;.;SW
J. W . Laster, J
E. M. Newton, Insp.
297 R. C. Harris. ER.................... 54.20
299.... F. C. May, M.......................... 9.00
B. R. Seamans, SW
R. J. Miklica, JW
C. J. Grant
300....J. W . Tirey, SW.................... 92.00
W . M. Abele, JW
K. Dowell. Insp.
301....E. F. Johnson. SW................ 86.80
H. C. Eader. JW
302 ....D. E. Tavemetti, JW............ 30.20
F. Y. Mar
303 .... R. F. Herrold, M.................... 49.80
D. R. Hardaway, SW
G. R. Todd, JW
E. N. Willey
304 ....M. B. Parlier, SW.................. 40.80
305 .... J. T . Horton, SW.................. 85.00
D. S. Powell, Insp.
306....C. \V. Reeves. SW................ 92.40
D. E. Cocking. JW
L. H. Riggins
307 .... E. vV. Maguire. M................ 80.20
R. 0. Proett. SW
D. C. Schmidt. JW
308 .... J. E. Reed. M.......................... 83 60
C. E. Aery, SW
309.... L. D. Ryan. M................. ...... 51.80
A. C. Goertzen, SW
R.H. Kay. JW
W. J. Taylor. Jr.
310....W . E. Hudson, SW.............. 56.00
H. R. Williams
312 .... Not Represented
313 ....W. F. Sprinkle, Jr .. M.......... 66.20
J. P. Smith. SW
G. W. Mitchell, JW
W . R. Porter
314. ...G. N. Moore, M.................... 90.00
E . G. Shook. SW
W . R. McDaniel. JW
R. G. Smith, lnsp.
P. J. Nylander
315 .... M. E. Parker. SW................ 83.60
L. L. Suttles, JW
316....M . L. Hirn!, SW.................... 39.60
C. E. Arnutrong. JW

GRAND LODGE OP CA.LIPORNIA

Mile.
No . of
Allow.
Representative.s
Lodge
317 ....C. D. Sayre, SW.................. 101.00
J. W . Belford. lnsp.
319 ....L. Schmitz, M........................ 80.60
G. Lawson, SW
0. Balzer, JW
R. T . Kiele, Insp.
J. H. Duncan
'r. J. Owens, Jr.
P. W. Peters
U. Rostagno
A. R. Simmons
320.... R. E. Jackson, M.................... 80.60
W. L. Byrne, SW
D.H.Terry
321....H. R. Davis, M...................... 7.80
C. D. Tucker, SW
322....M. D. Remick. M.................. 82.00
R. F. Rock. JW
323 ....J. T. Cothran, SW-............ 82.60
R. W . Ramlow, JW
324....J. L. Doyel. M........................ 82.20
H. L. Richter, SW
325 ....R. R. Danover, SW.............. 101.60
T. W. Eckford
L. N. Turrentine
326....W. R. Carty. ER.................. 113.80
327.... E. M. Bartlett. M.................. 85.80
K. P. Elliott, SW
W. L. Tyra, JW
J. H. Ferguson, ~nsp.
R. Hilts
328....F. M. Johnson, SW................ 82.80
J. H. Hansford, JW
D. J. Shoemaker, lnsp.
329....A. Ricci, M............................ 80.60
Z. Manoukian, SW
J. S. Brown, JW
J. C. Bourguignon, Insp.
R. E. Bourguignon
A . Caen
M.Gaul
330....C. E. Bahr, SW__............... 325.95
W.W. Flagg
C. C. Tong
~~:.°s~-----·.................. 24.40
331 ....~:

6.

W . W. Willoughby, JW
P. W. Hellman
332... P. E. Dwight, M.................... 86.00
R. B. Chase, SW
R. H. Reese. JW
J. C. Stewart
33L .J. E. Bell, M .......-................... 59 .00
334.. D. B. Whitlock, SW.............. 85.20
W.R. Bergener, Jr., JW
J. F. Steiger

i31

Mile.
No . of
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
335 ....R. R. Saul. M.......................... 80.60
R. B. Cohen, SW
A. Montrose, JW
336 .... M. L. Olmsted, M
G. K. Heininge, SW
A. E. Weir, JW
B. 0. Young, GT
A.G. Berger
J. W . Hansford
R. C. Horstmann
D. A. Turpin
W.W. Wildman
5.60
337 ....L. F. Martin, M...........
J.C. Grant
338 .... R. 0. Squires, SW................ 98.00
R. L. Barnh art. JW
339....T. E. Gilland, M.............. .... 86.00
R. F. Pearce. SW
E . Medoff, JW
W. L. Currie
341....B. Miller, M......................... . 75.20
M. G. Goyne, SW
R. P. Walters, JW
J. J. Ritch, Insp.
R. E. Jones
343... F. V. Ragazzf, M.................. 75 .60
F. Winton, SW
N. H. Bye, JW
W . L. Bacon
L. H . Boone
344 ... S. Sheff. M
S. Koss. SW
R. J. Silverman . JW
L. Becker, lnsp
C. Becker
B. A. Katz
A. M . Lesser
H. L. Wayne
A. Salomon
345....J. Nelson
346... .V. H. Hansen. M.................... 6.40
H. C. Green, SW
K. D. Corley. JW
L. H . Anderson , PGM.......... 6.40
J. F. Roberts. lnsp.
J. W. Carl
H. E. Simons
347 .... W . F. Harper. M
W. C. Beck, SW
G. P. Pierce, JW
J. C. McPherson
H. R. Moore
P. Slavazza
348....J. W. Flood, M...................... 90.80
W. M. Rainbolt, SW
F. P. W eatherford JW
D. T. Wright, lnsp.
G. M. Cellar
A. B. Gresham

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
349.... W. G. Skilling. M
D. E. Skilling, SW
C. W. Barry
D. W. Besoain
G. C. Courreges
M. D.Coy
F. D. Gatter
H. S. Savage
351....W. B. KrE"bs, M.. ... ............ .. 80.60
W.E.Boyd,SW
J. A. Boyle
B. R. Jordan
352 .... F. D. Power, M...................... 80.60
B. 0. Kearney, JW
J. Chackerian
J. B. Didlake
H. R. Hall
J. H. Hardy
R.H. Head
W. Klud jian
R. V. Sutton
353....R. A. Silva, M........................ 5.40
J. Smith, Sr.. SW
G. S. Monahan
R. L. Spinney
J.E. Webb
354 ....W. F. D awson. M
J. F. Vollers, SW
L. D. Nelson, JW
A. L. Croce
J. Ruggiero
F. W . Traveny
W . D. Verbarg
355 ... M. J. Aldershof, M...
79.20
R. T. Van D egrift. SW
D. L. Moyer, JW
L. E. Anderson, P GM
W. H. Beaudry
J. F. Davidson
J. R. Davison
E. L. Gamet
E. H . Gebhardt
F. E. Green
H.J. W a lking
356... .R. D . Jackson. M
P.A. Born, SW
A. D. Fields. JW
F. A. Wilson
357....N. B. Jones, M......... .............. 84.60
R. L. P arrish, SW
T . R. Siems, Insp.
A. M. HartweII
M. McCarrell
J. W . Willis, Jr.
358 ....E. Stuart, M........ .................. 80.60
R. R. Strader, SW
D. W. Litsinger, JW
Burton Meyer, Jr., AGL

No. of
Mile.
Allow.
Lodge
Representatives
C. 0. Smith, Insp.
W. P. Kretschmer
359.... Not Represented
360.... W. J. Williams, M
M. Dudum,JW
W. C. Bird
A. F. Enderlin
R. W. Haun
K. W . Kinkle
E. C. Mathisen
H. D. Oliphant
0. von Raven
M. T. Simmons
361....M. F. Kannus, M.................... 33.20
H. G. Britt, SW
362....G. R. Eaton, SW.................... 9.80
W. G. Jory, JW
J. R. Forster
W. H. Scott
363-D. L. Hurt. M
.
H. F. Edson. Jr .. SW
R. P. Ross, JW
S. Barakos
C. W. Crocker
0. E. McLean
L. C. Moore
R. A. Stanley
365 ....R. E. Simonson, M................ 28.00
366 .... W. H. Ahlenslager, M.......... 36.60
E. C. Carpenter, SW
G. W. Pope, JW
S. M. Pa vlovich, Insp.
N . S. Foley
G. C. H olstein
367 .... J. H. Hilton. M...................... 82.60
A. D. Bond, SW
L. C. Newsom, JW
368.... R. Hampton, M...................... 80.00
A. M. Johnson. JW
G. B. M ize, PGM
H. E . Rathbun
A. F. Simmons
369 ....V. G. Shal'J', M...................... 80.20
W. G. Scott, SW
L. 0. Allen, JW
370 .. ..E. Leong, M
A. R. Johnson, SW
R. L. Sanderson, TW
P. A. P flueger. G'rreas
A. Balukian
E . W . Bode, Sr.
H. 0. H ammerich
U. D. Mackins
W . E.Ross
R. H. Sievers
D.R. Stall

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
371....D. Y. S. Pang, SW.............. 285.09
C.H. McAllister, lnsp.
A.H. Strike
372....C. Lewis. M......................... .. 83.40
J. T. Harris. SW
C. Dailey, Jr., JW
R. E . Crist, Insp.
G. C. Cunningham
A. Rister
R. J. Setzer
J. D . Sparks
373....E. H. Peterson, M.................. 80.60
W. C. Husted, SW
D. E. Wayment, JW
E. W. Branaum, lnsp.
374 .... R. L. Elder, M
A. C. Knaus, SW
J. W. Cruickshank, Jr., JW
J. H. Adams
P. Bovero
R. H. Johnston
K. L. Newkirk
L. H. Silberman
H. S. Stein. Jr.
P. C. Tudor
W. Van Ornum
375 .... M. A. Pihl. M
D. R. Lindgruen, SW
J. H. Dwyer, JW
E. K. Bender
J. H. Conner
•
C. J. MacMeekin
G. H. Pape
376.... J. R. Mose, M
F. J. deLarios, SW
D . E. Strand, JW
E. L. Almquist
G. H . Henr y
B. J. H jerpe
E. A. Sandberg
377 .... J. L. Stead, SW...................... 84.20
W. L.Cox, JW
378 ....A. J. Schramm, SW.............. 80.60
T . E. Blake, JW
G. W. Perkins. Insp.
379....0. W. Haase, JW.................. 78.40
H.J. Haase
380....C. A. Grossman, M................ 89.20
L.A. Budwig, SW
A. L. Budwig, JW
D.C.Cook
381....P. C. Machamer, JW............ 97.60
382....E. W. Reid, M...................... 80.60
H. S. March, SW
383 ....R. B. Henry, M...................... 41.80
L. J. McFarlin, SW

433

No . of
Mile .
Lodge
R epresentatives
Allow.
384 ....J. W. Kennerson. SW.......... 123.20
A. E . Dufresne. JW
K. A. Carlson, GC
E. W . Heald, PGM
N. P. Tester
385....J. R. Ingle, Jr., SW................ 42.20
C. L. Fraser
387.... J. R. Wallace, ER.................. 41 .60
388 ....L. D. Robinson, M
J.B. Gore, SW
W. W. Albright, JW
J. E. Pinley, Jr .. lnsp.
G. K. Crandall
K. E . Hopper
J. E. Finley
K. F . Koenig
L. R. Lawrence
J. F. Palmer
H. D. Robertson
E. J. Willig
C. H. Allen
W. A. Fager
389.... C. R. H utch ison, M................ 85.80
D. L. McMahon, SW
C. F. Wallace
P. L. Williamson
390....G. E . Keesee, SW................. . 121.20
391....W. E. Gerber. M ................... . 27.80
W. H. Fiske, AGL
J. R. Wise, JGS
W. D. Archer
392.... P. E . Martinet. M ................. 80.60
W. R. Campbell, SW
L. V. Smith, Insp.
F. R. Brunner
V. E. Mitchell
J. A. Sickenberger
393.... S. C. Gendar, M
D. M. G uire. SW
H. French, lnsp.
L. W. Johnson
H. N. Olsen
394 ....R. K. Cooke, Sr., M .............. 84.60
E . S. Cook, SW
M. E. Smith, PGM
G. D. Atkinson
W. T. Lisenby, Jr.
E. L. Schwamb
395....J. E . Smith, M........................ 20.80
L. A. Baker, SW
S. L. D avis, JW
W.H.Brown
396 ....J. W. Haire, M
J. R. LaSuer, SW
0. R. Toops, JW
A. Johnson, lnsp.

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
397....C. G. Wells, M...................... 81.60
E. M. Dushane, SW
J.M. Hefner, JW
A. A. Dowers. Insp.
399 ....W. E. Brown, M.................... 10.00
D. L. Holmes, SW
G. A. Leach, JW
G. W. Buttke
W. T. Leever
H. E. V anArsdale
A. Wong
400 .... I. J. McBride, M
S. G. Arsenault, SW
W. W. Callow, JW
W. G. Ferguson
W.B. Taylor
401....L. J. Katz. M
D. V. Mackay, SW ·
S. M. Giovannelli, JW
B. F. Bryant
M. C. Buckley
E. C. Lamp
D. McFetridge
A.H. Triggs
402 .... R. C. Griffith, M .................... 119.20
R. E. Adams, SW
E. E. Adams, lnsp.
J.B. Whitehead
403 ....H. M. Sherman, M
G. N. Ghiorso, SW
L. S. McElwain, JG\V
P. M. Hayes
R. A. Lang
R. T. Palmer
W. G. Whelan
C. W. Wilson, Jr.
404.... D. M. S mothers. M................ 85.40
J. S. Varga, SW
C. Thom pson, JW
405 ....A. T oivonen, M.................... 80.60
G. E. Rutledge. SW
R. B. Pingarron, JW
L. B. Fenderson
J. I. McGraa
406.... R. L. Olson, M............·-······· 79.20
G.F.Welch.SW
R. A. Glasgow, JW
R. B. Carter
W . D. Hopkins
R. Sudano
407....T. Owen, M .......................... 106.40
H. M. Rodieck, SW
E. C. Cravens, JW
408....T. C. Lodge, M............... ·--·· 83.40
E. T. Knowles
J. A. Nau
409....W. T. Straus, SW...........- ... 285.09

No. of
Mile.
Allow.
Lodge
Representatives
41 L..T. H. Braswell, SW................ 94.80
G. W. Collins, JW
412.... L. G. Ferrell, SW.................. 124.20
414 ....Not Represented
415 .... G. R. Stewart, M.................... 79.20
D. A. Redholtz, SW
W. M. Ortega. JW
M. Edwards
V. L. Massie
T. B. Rosen
N. A. Schwartz
S. Zaid
416....M. F. Leinsteiner, M.............. 47.80
A. A. Daniells, Insp.
G. R. Hahnle
417 .... F. R. Shilling, SW................ 37.40
418....J. W. Watson, M.................. 80.60
F. H. Mayhew, Jr .. SW
C. K. Schertle, Insp.
A. L. Smith
419 ....R. A. Cobbold, JW................ 87.80
420 ...Not Represented
421....W. E . Stansel. M.................. 83.00
C. R. Bales, SW
C. A. Lindenman, JW
M . B. Burke
B. C. Darling
J. L. Robertson
E. N. Stansel
422 ....W. C. Hutton, M. ................ 80.60
J. Mandrup, SW
J.E. Calhoun
423 ...0. A. Capps, M...................... 81.60
424....C. C. Guinn, SW.................... 47.00
A. Fonville, JW
425 ....Not Represented
426....J. F. Latimer, M...................... 59.40
R. B. Hollingsworth. SW
L. S. Brenneman. lnsp.
E. Carlson
R. A. Smith
427....J. H. Owen, M...................... 87.20
J. C. Behringer. lnsp.
428....C. A. Reisinger, JW.............. 86.20
429.... C. F. Adams, Sr., M..............
8.00
D. C. Sever, SW
J.C. Brown
R. J. Malone
430....J. Baker, SW.......................... 57.60
P. N. Myers, PGM
P. W. Lindt, Insp.
431....F. J. Jeffus, M
E, 0. Anderson, SW
D. D. Davis. JW
R. McDonald, Insp.
E. R. Brooks

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile .
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
W.A. Horne
F. E. Loher
J.B. T rimeloni
R. E. Wincentsen
433 ....W. F. Speas, SW.................. 24.20
434 .... J. I. Hunter, SW.................. 60.80
435 ....W. D. Hanson, M
R. L .Nichols. SW
K. Wright, JW
E. G. Freeman, Insp.
I. Crase
D. Freeman
W.W. Kiesow
436 ...J. R. Smith, M........................ 87.80
L. E. Allen, SW
J. W. Negus, Sr.
437 ....R. B. Reeves, SW............. .. 75.00
S. L. Jaqua, JW
J.E. Bacon, Insp.
W. D. Knight
A. J. McCourtney
J.C. Sinn
V. D. Ward
439....R. Kidwell. SW................... .. 15.00
440....E . C. Newman. M
I. R. Bilskey, SW
H. S. Roberts, JW
441....A. H. Tipton. SW................ 109.60
P. E. Brown, JW
442 ....E . J. Stone, Jr .. M.........
104.40
C. B. Mullins, SW
E. Gumpel. JW
H. M. Kirkland
R. R. Porath
443.... B. K. C. Ing. SW.................. 285.09
C. A. Battige
T. K. H. Wong·
444 ....C . C. Benedict. ER................ 69.80
445 .... I. D. Adams, M............. ........ 80.60
R. K. Byerts, SW
G . L. Senyohl. JW
H. A. H uebner. SGW
F. E. Clark, Insp.
A. T. Gruening
H. P. Huebner
J. S. Hunt
446....R. G. Saylor, SW................ 84.60
E . I. VanAtta, Jr., JW
J. W. Roberts
F. E. Zeiler
447.... J. B. Bennett, SW.................. 84.60
R. W. Purcell, JW
L. D. Babcock, lnsp.
R. 0. Lougee
448....J. M. Faulkner, M.·-············ 6.20
C. Thornsberry, SW

435

No.of
Mile .
Representatives
A llow.
Lodge
C. G. Wheeler. JW
V. W. Hendrix, AGS
G. C. Johnson
H. E. Thornsberry
449 ....A. E. Toivonen. M
E. A. Peroni, SW
D. B. McCaw, JW
R. M. Montgomery, lnsp.
R. Duden
J. Ferguson
G. W. Maynard
A. W . Odle
Vv. H. Osborne
0 . D. P arker
S. L. Solomon
450. .V. T. Shields. M.................... 77.60
W . C. Faubion, SW
D. C. Paonessa, JW
W.W. Dickson, Jr., Insp.
H. S. Morrison
R. W. Pettes
451....D. L. Peek, M........................ 82.00
G. Schnurle, SW
W. J. Gilbert, JW
F. L. Sutliff, Insp.
452 ....M. R. Webb. M....... ............ . 82.20
A. Martinez, JW
E. Kaminski, Jr.
R. C. Kettle
J. R. Miller
R. H . Rittgers
454....L. Aronian, M
C. M. Gardner, SW
G. A. Chrestionson , JW
L. 0. Ginsberg
A. J. Huelse
H. S . Johnson
V. P. M cMurdo
A. H. P eterson
A . Turman
455 ....C. R. Johnson. M
R. A. Spencer, SW
W. E. Bode, JW
C. R. MacPhee. DGM
A. P. Bilay
E . B. Brehaut
H. H . Eling
J. T . Parr. Jr.
W. M. Lustenberger
R. F. Nilsson
T. W. Rollinson, Sr.
457.... J. W. Worman, SW.............. 82.20
T. C. Farrell, JW
458 ....V. A. Enke, M ________________________ 80.60
C. E. Beaumont
E.E.Dixon
459....C. C. Eastman, ER................ 18.20

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. ol
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
'160 ....M. L. Routt. SW.................... 12.'iO
461....S. S. Sato. M
J. K. Hodge. SW
C . R. Smith, JW
G. P. Leung, lnsp.
E. A. Caldwell
A. W. Dalrymple
C. Gibbs. Jr.
E. A. Gumbinger
R.P. Knox
J. C. Lewellen

H:. Loo

R. L. Newby
L. B. Richards
J. A. Steinmetz
J. H. Turner
462 .... H. B. Thomlinson. M
H . T. Dosdorian, Jr., SW
B. H. Stolz. JW
L. H. Beckendorf
A. B. Epstein
H . D. King
P. A. Lawson
J. M. Phillips
J. M. Pisias
M. S. Springer
J. W . W arshaw
463....J. Bright. SW........................
464....G. E. Moody, M
W . C. Lynch. SW
R.H. Hill. JW
A. B. Becker
E. G. Couture
D. N. Deane
W. A. Foster
F. J. Herz
A. E. H ewit
W . T . Matlock
A. V . Sligar
J. R. Titsworth
465 ....J. G. Puma, SW....................
H . A. Smith. JW
S. E. Dollar
M. W . Lawrence
466....R. K. Murdock, M................
T . V . Ketchem. SW
L. E . Wynn. JW
C. W . Luick
R. J. Myers
467....J. A. Miller. M........................
S. J. Davidson. SW
A. R. Pedersen, JW
468 .... H . Matthews. M
M. J. Duval. SW
D. E. Moss. JW
469 ....R. L. Charles, M....................
L. C. Sherrill, SW

13.80

36.50

57.80

80.60

86.60

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
470....S. Miller. M
J. Angel. SW
B. Keh . JW
J. J. Dunn
C. H. Rothblum
'171....E . E. Kendall. M.................... 15.60
C. W . Foster. SW
R. F. Fiorito, JW
J. Reddick, lnsp.
G. W. Graffis
472. ... C. L. Mitchell. SW................ 310.25
W. E. Foster, Insp.
W. C. Day, Sr.
473.... B. D. Brummet, SW.............. 125.80
175....V. W. Alcorn, M.................. 80.60
R. N. Lipsc.omb. SW
476....E. L. Winn. SW.................... 107.00
R. E. Carlton, Insp.
F. F. Wilson
477.... P. T. Angleton, M.................. 58.40
478.... C. L. Myer, SW
J. G. Dodge, JW
R. W. Beckwith
B. M. Burchard
H.F. Hexner
G. H . Meyer
179....H . E . Carrell, M.................... 10.00
D. H. Dewhurst, SW
H. E. Carlsen
J. S . Hasen
R. E. Oberg
E.W. Roggy
R. W. Scott
E. C. Van de Mark
M. Wright
480....E. Soza, M
P. M . Porter. SW
R. B. Wilson
181....H. G. McGuffin. M
K. A. Vandebrooke, SW
E . Larson, JW
D. D. Rowlands. Insp.
G. F. Adams
182....M. E . LeBlanc, M................ 81.60
W . J. Mason
483....A. C. Larson, M.................... 83.00
J. C. Hammonds, SW
W . A. Steiner, JW
J. D. Kelso. Insp.
H . C. Comaford
481....R. A. Manning. ER................ 80.60
485 ....H. E. Mills. JW...................... 29.20
486....A. Barnes. M.......................... 57.80
J. F. Carl. SW
G. E. Montgomery, JW
W. W. Shugart, Insp.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
V. G. Andrews
W.W. Dearing
487 .... H. A. Budding. M .................. 6.20
W . P. Rams. SW
W . D. Montgomery, JW
E. G. Branstetter
D. J. Gourley
C. B. Menge
488....N . 0. Dean, SW................... . 18.20
F. D. Wheeler, JW
489....D. D. Fulks. M
C. A. Nelson, SW
F. V. Bowles, JW
A. B. Ebert
S. N. Ivanoff
J. A . Sobey
A. Van Nieuw
B. Zarley
490....W . H. Franks, M .................. 46.80
491....R. P. Smith, M
G. F. Burkart, JW
A. A. Horwege
C. E. Jansen
C.R. Ramsey
J.E. Spehar
492.... H. J. Barnard. M .................... 80.60
G. E. Harrison, Insp.
D. C. Lee
193....D. E. Cannon, SW................ 42.80
494 .... H. E. Acree. M
P. H. Williams, SW
R. C . Ball, JW
E. L. Hanson, Insp.
R. Adams
R. C. Leland, Jr.
J. W. Manuel
195 ....G. C . Winter, M
W. H. Burgess. SW
M. A. Bowdish, JW
R. A. Krug, Insp.
Leo D'Atri
A. B. Nadler
197....C. P. LaGrange. M
A. W. Isham, SW
W. H . Feener, JW
T. M. Livingstone
C. L. Rossi
498 ....Not Represented
499.... W . Driskell, M .................. 17.20
. E . Poindexter, SW
. A. T ate, JW
. A. Young
500.... J. C. Reynolds, M
E. J. Armando
W. C. Zecher
501....W . H. Leedy, JW.................. 49.80

l

437

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
502....E. C. Poulton, M
A. C. Johnson, SW
E. Beber, JW
J. D. F. Smith
503....C. W. Cooley, M
C. L. Parker. SW
W. C. McKinney. JW
B. W.Colvin
SOL.R. R. Cox, M.......................... 85.80
A. G. Brockseo, Sr .. SW
R. E. Roswurm. JW
R. H. Davis. lnsp.
E. Houser
0. A. Vogel
505 ....V. R. Oltmanns, M................ 87.00
W . A. Hatch. SW
J. H. Lockwood. JW
506 ....A. Ross, M.............................. 80.60
J. T. Peterson, SW
R. Minchelf. JW
H. Beal
P. M. Palmer
507....R. D. Robinson, M .....-......... 81.80
D. M. McMillan, SW
R. J. Lehman
H. A. Wilson
508....V. L. Gordon, ER................ 42.00
509 ....L. Miller, M............................ 80.60
A. J. Oliver
R. Simon
510.... ~: k.'1~~~~~~-----................... 9.00
T . L. Bankston, JW
511....J. S. Gonzales, SW................ 8.20
H. R. Duke
H . L. Horn
512 ....C. H. Durden. M ..._................ 80.60
L. V. Shelton. SW
L. F. Patterson. JW
S. A. Patterson
513 ....G. D. Modd. M...................... 79.20
R. Osborn, SW
W . Carpenter. JW
A. S. Davidson
R. W . Watts
R. L. Whitney
515 ....L. A. Roe, Jr.. M............
83.00
R. F. Nolan. SW
516....M. Tolf. ER............................ 59.40
R. M. Evans
518....Q . A. W emple. M ................- 103.40
H. H. R . Aiman, SW
J. W . Getsinger
519....J. A. Turnbull, M ... ...... ....... 80.60
T. R. Waite. SW
M. E . McCall. JW
P. Bezanson
J. Camwell
L. Gardener
R. Knapp

438

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile.
lodge
Repre5entative:J
Allow.
520.... J. M. Kartzinel. M
E. Spiegelman. SW
L. Levine
52 L..D. C . Dudley. M
A. T . Floyd, Jr.• SW
E. R. Rlkshelm, JW
522 ....R. B. Bormann. M ................ 82.20
R. R. Hough, JW
A.A. Muske
523....A. Krcel!c, Jr., M.................... 81.00
M. R. Green, SW
524....C. D. Ginnctt. SW................ 92.10
R. E. Morris, JW
525.... H. L. Sandkulla. M
A. J. Moras. SW
G. G. \Vhiteslde. JW
R. L. Bowen
J. Newsham
b . M. Ratledge
J. H. Schneider
526 ....E. I. Rose. M
S. L. Pond. SW
W . Chew. TW
C. H. Israel
M. Kaplan
527 .... J. J. Stafford. SW.. ·---·---·---- 82.80
528.... A. G. Scull. M........................ 80.60
C. E. Christensen, SW
C. F. Michel. JW
J. Bookman
C. E. Crane
F. A. Fox
529 .... M. L. Meltzner. M ................ 80.60
S. Stein. SW
A. Linsk. AGTrcs.
M. T oorcdman, Insp.
L. P. Bass
B. Susman
530....R. E. Far(lason. SW............ 36.60
M. A. Edwards. JW
H. R. Hargrave, Insp.
L. H. Moller
531....G. Gum. M
P. W . Herman. S\V
G. N. Pine. JW
F.F.Goodman
R.A. Neil
532 ....J. E. Cargill, JW..·-·········-·- 18.80
533 .... H . G. Garnier. SW.......·-·-- 86.00
L. S. Walthall. JW
H. vV. Wensel
534 .... R. A. DeGabain. M
J. W . Rae. SW
J. J. Plaster. JW
F. S. Heuring
J. N. Rae
J. H. L. Wolfsohn

No.of
Mile.
lodge
/?epresentatlue:J
Allow.
535....W. I. Gustafson, M................ 80.60
M. H . Stafford. S'W
H. H. Enriquez, J\.V
E. J. Blickfeldt
H. F . Bucklin
W. T. Saunders
E. A. Stone
537....T. F. Lewis. M...................... 80.60
D. H . Whitley, SW
K. E. Stookesberry, JW
F. A. Frazier
V. V . Goode
J. R. Nocas
538.... H. R. Taylor. SW.................. 83.10
540.... H. G. Haupt, M...................... 85.80
E. K. Olson. SW
W. A. Starkey, JW
C. T. Payne
F.Ray
541....T. C. Broyer. M
R. D. Morse, SW
J. W. Mason. JW
t. M. Barrett
C. J. Bellman
A. J. Leighton
512....H. H . Ca(lle. M ...................... 78.00
B. C. Smith. SW
M. J. Alfano, JW
D. \V. Maltby, Insp.
F. E. Archer
R. Bunce
C. W. Burch
J. G. Gladson
C.H. Smith
R. A. Totman
J. S. Woodward

!: ~'.11~~h~c~~?:·r~-.·:·sw····· ······ 85.80
t.J. L. Kellum, JW

543. ...

541....W. W. Danyluk, M............ 80.00
E. W . Spencer. SW
J. R. Vaughan. J\.V
L. 0. Emmerichs
545.... M . R. Laird. SW
R. G. DeLisle. Jr.. JW
L. G. Fong
D. D. Jewell
T. L. Knudson
I. J. Kohnke
W. F. Poynter
546....C. R. Amidon, M.................... 82.20
L. N. Call. SW
R. T. Yarbray, JW
547.... l,J.·E~L~~~i,~:ii.~w··········--V. H. Gunderson
T. S. Swlrles

8Ho

Mile.
No.of
Allow.
Lodge
Representatives
548.... J. W. Schermerhorn, M ........ 81.20
S . D . Boyd. SW
A. L. Harris. JW
R. W. Doan, lnsp.
V. C. Alianiello
A. D. Sebring
X. G. Young
519.... N. L. Adams, M
J. J. Lopipero. SW
H van der Velde. JW
W.W. Barry
A. Burke
W . R. Cruickshank
S. Fonq
R.R . Herdman
G.D. Horn
0. T. Johnson
U . E. Nordeen
K. D. Smith
551....G. W. Adams. SW
E. Mirigian, JW
P. S . Boren
L. B. Ferguson
L.A. Kirk
G. S. Trimhle
552 .... J. M . Japport. JW.................. 56.80
S. L. OcLaughder
A . Duncan
J. C. Tario
554.... D. R. Carmine. M
R. A. Smirle. S\V
F. D. DeLong
555....G. Van Dyke, SW................ 57.80
556.... J. M. Schneider, M
J. W. West. SW
R. B. Willits, JW
R. A. Smallman, Insp.
C. W. Seely
557 ....W. E. Harrison, M ................ 82.20
J.P. Russell. SW
P. W . Goff. Jr., JW
558 .... W . 0. Marron. SW .............. 86.00
R. Beresford. JW
559 .... E. F. Page, M ....................... . 80.60
H. J. Graydon. SW
560.... D. A. Fristedt, M
D. E. Weisse. SW
W. B. Adams. JW
E. H. Siems. GS
M. M. Bolin
A. Henrikson
C. M. Stine
B. H. Vincent
561....J. E. Miller, SW...... ·-··········· 101.10
C. H. Mathis, JW
H.K. Ford
562 ....R. D. Hall. M
J. H. Ludlow, SW

439

No.of
Mile.
lodge
Repre!Jentatlvu
Allow.
0 . Temple. JW
T. J. Meraz:
563.... C. E. Franklin, M ................ 80.60
J. R. \Villiams. SW
b . E. Armfield. JW
W. Bottorff, Insp.
L.B. Black
564....R. G. Roemer, M
J. R. Crawford, SW
R. W. C ampini. JW
L. J. Camozzl
C. B. Munck
565
1
80.60

····k't~i~~ tt~·s~r···--·············

K. Boynton, JW
D. Johnson
566 ....R. C. Robbins, M .................... 80.60
E. A. Johnson, SW
H. A. Mahr
F. Thompson
567 .... H. H. Harsch. Tr.. M ............ 85.80
L. S. Wolfe. SW
M. E. Green, JW
K. L. Hemphill
568 ....W. P. Porter, M
W. S. Cuneo. SW
D. J. Breault. JW
D. E. Berry
W. H. Van Cleave
569 .... R. V . Daska m, M .................. 5.00
J. L. Dill, SW
J. D. McPhee. JW
W . \V. Beck, Insp.
J.E. Abbott
C. V. Tucker
570....N. B. Sparks. M
L. E. Allton, SW
F. C. Sing. JW
F. E. Long. Insp.
C. 0. Dughi
J. Kinces
C. W . Lee
H . H. Mitchell
L. H. Strohecker
57 I....R. H. McCall, M
L A. White, SW
J. G. Piaz:z:a. JvV
E.W. Davis, PGL
H. H. H obson, l nsp.
572 ....H. T . N elson. M ................... . 80.80
D. R. Fischer. JW
R. Smith, Insp.
E. J. Cumbey
M . L. Lee
vV. T. Schlack
574 ....R. A. Carsten. M ................... . 104.40
\V. F. Zauss. SW
575 ....R. G. Ingram, Insp.
H.B. Wanzer

440

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile.
No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow. Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
576 ....J. A. Davis, M...... ....... .. . ....... 106.10 591.... A. L. Rollins, M.................... 17.00
E. A. Koehler, SW
592 .... W. L. Cline, SW... ................. 77.80
V. W. Crum, JW
D. D. Hanlon, JW
L. Chambers, Insp.
593 .... W. I. Green, M. ..................... 85.80
J. A. Sanderson
R. L. King, SW
W. A. Souza, JW
577 .... K. A. Johnson, M.................... 80.60
M. V. Dearth
V. G. Hedlund, SW
L. J. McEldowney
J. A. Low
K. C. Serles
L. H. Mahler
594.... M. H. McCaslin, M.............. 85.80
J. S. \Valters
E . McGhee, S\V
578 ...A. L. Wagnon, M................ 80.60
G. L. Barnes, JW
R. K. Simmons, SW
C. J. Wentz, lnsp.
V. V.Lake
595 ....C. S. Phillis, SW....... .......... 80.60
R. A. Larson
596 ....A. W. Meese, M .................... 82.00
579....M. E. Robertson, M............ 17.80
W. Ritzman, SW
C. E. Herrmann
B. L. Lackey
R. W. Rylander
598 .... N. T. Luke, SW.................... 285.09
580....R. E. Diggins. M .................... 105.40
H. A . Cundiff
Z. Y. Coleman
J.P. D enneh y
581....J. Whitfield. M
599 .... R. C. Cooper. M .................... 82.20
R. Brierley, SW
A. L. Gerrie, Jr.. SW
D. L. Diebel. JW
R. J. Bennett. JW
K. L. Morris, Insp.
W. A. Brady
L. T. Jenkins
L. S. H auger
K. P. Sward
K. A. Jacobson
582 ....R. L. Copeland, SW................ 90.40 600 ...R. E. Uselman, M.................. 82.00
J.E. Bristol. SW
J. H. Weller, Insp.
W. W. McQueen. JW
583.... J. H. Brown, M.................... .. 55.20
R. C. Eulberg, lnsp.
T. A. Tucker, SW
H. H. Baird
J. D. Paul, JW
R. D. Barnes
584 .... E. A. Reichardt, M................ 80.60 60 1....Not Represented
W. M. Pierson, SW
602 ...F. H. Smith. M .. ................... 79.20
M.A. Pixley
T. T. McKimson. Insp.
585.... R. H endershot, M.................. 80.60
E.T. Church
R. A. Roth, SW
G. E. Outram
A. R. Dixon
603 .. .B. M. Greq11 . M
A. J. Munselle
J. R. Trindel. S\V
586 .... D. W. DeWitt. M ....... ..
87.00
L. C. Basker. Insp.
N. R. Webb, SW
G. W. Anderson
R. C . Rappaport, JW
W. Blomseth
A. B. Oder
G. Ringsmith
W. W.Reybum
604 ...H . H. Cook. M...................... 87.00
H. N. Morris, SW
587... .L. J. Jacobson, M.................... 80.60
L. G. Connelly, lnsp.
J. Zinn, SW
605 . .R. B. Lundquist, SW............ 80.60
V. Admire. JW
L. E. Crandall
C. S. Barrett
G. M. H aley
F. C. Chan
C. R. Wilkins
H. German
607.... R. S. Truitt. SW .. ................ 84.20
J.M. Maddock
C. J. Gentry. JW
E. E. Smith
R.H. Mosher
588 ....J. M. Panek, M.................... 80.60 608.... R. I. Dickson, M.................... 82.00
A. M. Shahabian, SW
W. R. W orobe, JW
589....R. E. Hodgdon, JW.............. 310.25
D. G. Campbell, PGL
C. K. Oyagi, GSB
J. E. W ellet, Insp.
590....E. A. LeDonne, M................ 87.20
b. R. Krag
F. B. Erbe, SW
609...R. W. Williamson. M .... ..... 17.20
C. W. Funkhouser, JW
C. B. Hendricks. SW

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
61 0.... J. E. Watson, M
M. W. Awisus, SW
W . G. Lopachuk, JW
R. Jacobsen
61 t....H. B. Cockrum, M................ 78.60
R. G. Steen, SW
N. R. Quick
612 ....W. B. Ross, M........................ 83.10
G. W. Alves. SW
R. P. Gooddard, JW
M. E. Schrock, Insp.
S. E. Harris
M. F. Louge
613 ....D. H. Exter, M...................... 17.20
B. L. Ames, SW
C. E. Green, JW
F. P. Lemen, AGL
M. A. Buth
G. F. Packard
6 1-l .... N. K. Weaver, M.................. 80.60
A. M. Shinn, Jr., JW
R. A. Simon, lnsp.
N. Condee
C. B. Little
615 .... H. A. Jorgensen, SW............ 98.00
R. D. Siems
616.... 0. H. Carson, M.................... 86.20
F. A. Miller, SW
K. B. Conklin, lnsp.
M.G. LaRue
617....D. H. Altimus, M.................. 98.00
C. A. Hall. JW
L. P. Boyle
S. J. Sarkis
618 ....R. S. Clark. M
..... . ...... 80.60
B. G. Spicer, SW
B. T. Spicer, JW
C. W. W. Bailey
C. E. Dudgeon
619 .... D. M. Pierro, M.. ................. 85.80
W. G. McClellan, SW
620....R. P. Blake. SW................ .. 104.40
J. L. Hodge, JW
H. S. Fisher
R. Kentro, Jr.
H.K. Rankin
621....G. B. Keller, M...................... 80.60
W. S. Merritt, SW
J. N. Roberts
622 ... H. G. Commons, M.... ............ 80.60
H. E. Weaver, SW
R. H. Dutwiler
E. R. Johnson
R. G. Warmuth
623.... M. M. Rubin, M.................... 80.60
I. Abramsky, SW
S. Chadnow

441

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
A. Zeavin
624.... J. B. Barbero, Insp.
R. M. Webb, Insp.
62 5 .. H. E. No11uchi, M.................. 82.80
R. Follett. SW
R. A. Clarke. JW
J. Kopchinsky
H . Larsen
626 ....N. F. Nickel, M..........
105.60
A. Wein, SW
M. S. H ansen. JW
D. V. Roose, SGS
C. B. Hart
C. E. Smith
627 ....J. E. Dixon, M........................ 82.20
N. K. Krikorian. SW
E. E. Dahl, JW
628 ....J. R. Curtis, M........................ 78.00
S. K. Lehman, Jr., SW
E. L. Schneier, JW
C. B. Jacobs
629 ...L. Vollowitz, M......... ............. 80.60
S. A. Kapplinger. SW
T. H. McAlexander, JW
T. A. Horton
B. L. Irwin
630....R. E. Webb, M
G. H. Beers, SW
K. R. Moss. JW
J. F. Garriott
631.. .. J. 0. H aden. M.................. ... 80.60
A. L. MacPhail, SW
J. Scho ll. JW
M. J. Norton. Insp.
B. E. Rhodes
J. E. Schlener
P. D. Tarr
632....E. J. Wallace, SW................ 104.40
S. H. Moore, JW
B. W. Buck
B. T. Salmon
633 .... J. W . Howell, M
D. M. Li ghter. SW
J. P. Newton. JW
J. J. DeMoor, Insp.
C. C. Fouhse
G. S. Harts, Sr.
634 ... .V. B. Lawrence, SW............ 81.10
T. A. Burnside, JW
635 ....M. G. Gove, M..... ................. 92.00
D. E. Westerling, SW
E. D. Wilson, JW
E. W. Alsobrook
C.H. Grace
636....L. J. Gessner, M.................... 80.60
J. T. Hunter, SW

442

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
R. A. Crigler, GM
G. H. Harman, GBB
C. B. Austin
E. J. Bonneville
L. S. Hubbard
E. A. Underwood
637.... J. B. Watts. M........---------------- 80.20
F. E. Crowley, SW
E. M. Parrott, JW
639.... M. C. Maroko, SW............ 80.60
A. Oritz
A. Dvorin
J. Phillips
641....J. L. Cooper, M...................... 80.80
M. W. Umphenour, SW
A. E. Roth, JW
A. J. Nocas
642 .... E. W. Bivans, M.................... 68.00
J. G. Barnes, Jr., JW
643.... M. D. Miner, M...................... 85.80
L. J. Kenyon, SW
A. V. Shilling
644....R. H. Koch, SW.................... 85.40
W. J. Nicol, JW
W. B. Marshall
645.... R. H. Haynes, JW................ 86.00
E. J. Walker, lnsp.
E. J. Genter
G.M. Goar
646 .... R. R. Snyder, ER.................... 80.60
647.... C. R. Patterson, M................ 82.80
L. R. Muller, SW
J.E. Strwnquist, JW
J.A. Owen
648 .... H. L. McWhorter, M ............ 90.80
J. A. Morley, SW
A. W. Deam. JW
W. G. Chamberlain
L. C. Cook
J. L. Ousley
649 .... J. Saraceno, M........................ 81.80
J. A. Taylor, SW
E. E. G. Bull, JW
E. A. Weirick, lnsp.
W. C. Cavanaugh
650.... H. W. Baruth. M.................... 80.60
A. B. Seed, SW
A. B. Kutcher, JvV
G. W. Burch. Jr.
H. J. Cameron
G. H. Mohr
J. W . Swank
C. Yecsmen
651....N. o. Dobbs. sw..______
__________ 6.40
E. A. Grindle
R. Hodge

No.of
Mile.
Lodge
Representatives
Allow.
D. D. Pitman
D. Wright
652 .... D. C. Semmens. M................ 80.40
R. T. Woodburn, SW
E. H. Pollock, JW
653.... H. A. Brinegar, SW.............. 92.20
N. Thomas. JW
R. W. Gesler
654 .... D. P. DeLage, M.................. 81.80
F. H. Buxton, SW
W. S. VanDeweghe
655.... J. E. Forsyth, M.................... 85.80
C. W. Matthews. S\V
W. C. Russell, JW
R. J. Epps
K. V. Johnson
656....R. J. S kiles. M........................ 85.40
C. 0. Harvey, SW
W. H. Daetweiler, JW
P. Cam pbell. Insp.
657....W. F. Robbins. M ................ 104.40
D. R. Thiel. SW
E. E. Nash, JW
G. W. Ballard
C. A . Hansen
F. J. Leipper
G. A. McDaniel
658 .... S. Cox, SW......................... 22.80
J. A. Perez, JW
E. F. vVhite
659 ... .D. Colman. M................. ....... 84.80
R. J. Waller, SW
660.... J. M. Hancock, SW.............. 83.80
T. Hollingshead, J\V
661....R. H. Pontious. SW........... 80.60
W . A. Bishop. JW
662....W. R. Helms, M . ................. 80.60
J. W. Williams, S\V
L. K. Brink, Jr., JW
H. B. Keeling
J. V. Ketchoyian
P.R. Nichols
663.... R. L. Cleveland, M................ 74.40
C. E. Schaef, Jr .. SW
665....R. T. Edmiston, SW............ 46.60
L. R. Pritchard
666....J. J. Sorter, M ........................ 77.60
R. W. Dodge, SW
R. C. Read, JW
J. R. Vickers. lnsp.
J. W. Butts, Jr.
F. Homer
K. E. Wood
667.... R. Stein. M--------------------------.. 80.00
G. H arleman, SW
J. B. Wallace, JW
R. L. Peterson, Insp.
J. W. Catt
D. E . Reid

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mile.
No.of
Allow.
Lodge
Representatives
668 ....G. W. Siddons, M ............... .. 97.40
J. D. Brinegar, SW
V . C. Mills
10.00
669....W . R. Rudden , M ........... ..
R. G. Wason, JW
W. H. Re ed. Insp.
82.60
670 . .. S. E . Shrainer, M............ .
R. R. Frazier, SW
G. A . Hardin(:!. JW
L. A. Strong. Insp.
C. A. Green
K. E. Turner
671....G. E. Sutton, lnsp.
672 .... R. C. Sourwine, M ................ 91.00
T. H. H orn, JW
W.R. Hoover
W. B. Sorrells
W.Wayman
673 ....H P. Elliott. Jr., M
H. E. Rowe, Jr., S\V
A. H. Klein, JW
C. L. Foster, Insp.
A. A. Baker, Jr.
I. T. Kay
W. C. Kunz
R.E.Mason
C. M. Prior
E. W.Quon
J. W. Springer
A. M. Tatarian
R. Van Heekerin
K. Y. Yuen
674 .... R. D. Guest, M...................... 85.80
B. Reizner, SW
A. J. Sissons
675.... R. L. Manning , SW............ .. 18.20
H. H. Coleman
676....C. R. Cruse, M ..................... . 10.00
S. Janis, SW
G. G. Young, JW
T. D. W ebster
677 ... .V. Brice, M ............................ 80.60
R. M. Foster, SW
M. Tapscott. JW
E. Meyer, PGM
J. F. Porter, PSGW
\V. A. Fishback, Insp .
T. H . Wright, Insp.
H . W. Smith
678 .... C. J. Salazar, M ...................... 82.00
W. T.Dial. SW
L. P. Bachtold. JW
679 .... Not Represented
680 ....C. H. Bailey, ER .................... 24.80
681 ....B. W. Ward, M-----··------------- 28.40
D. E ppler, SW
J.M. Eppler, lnsp.

443

No. of
M ile.
Allow.
Lodge
Representatives
682 ....E . F. Schmitt, M.................... 83.00
J. A. Mitchell, SW
H . G . J. Torbett, JW
R. P. Higgins. lnsp.
V. B. Claypool
L. A. Gallagher
V. Hixson
N. Smith
683.... K. E. Knapp, M.................... 42.20
J.M. Campbell, SW
W. D. Hanisch, JW
W.C. Wilson
684....G. D. Harvey, M____________________ 84.60
G. Hess
685.... D. C . Dewey, M............ ....... 82.60
N. A. Vaccariello, SW
C. Minton, JW
W. J. Williams, GOrt
S. J. Collins, lnsp.
R. J. Henville, lnsp.
J. W. Dunn, Jr.
K. E. Hooton
W. G . E. Irwin
686 .... P. L. Noe, M
A. Gallo, SW
E. Wallace, JW
687.... N. E. Tanner, SW................ 99.40
L. H. F ield, Insp.
A. H. Chung
688... D. W. Buck, M ...................... 57.80
B. L. Selbach. SW
W. L. Meeks, JW
L. E. Halbert, Sr.
689 ....D. M. Conway, M................ 41.80
I. M. Duncan, SW
690.... M. L. Sutter, M
E. J. Damir, SW
C. D. Ball, JW
691.... R. D. Lewis, M-----··-----···-··· 80.60
E.R.Mangrwn,SW
D.R. Wittenbrink, JW
L. D. Radcliff
692 ....J. W. Bolen, Jr., SW............ 17.20
P.R. Lewis, JW
693... .L. Schutter, M........................ 102.40
C. R. McBride, SW
M. E. Rudin, JW
H. 0. Gordon, lnsp
D . M . Binkerd
F. A. Morrison
J. H. Spargur
694....H. A. Taylor, SW................ 83.00
C. F. Watson, Jr., JW
K. M. Harris
695 ....R. L. Hollingsworth, M........ 57.80
R. E. Foxe, SW
R. V. Smith, JW

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No. of
Mile.
Allow.
Lod(Je
Representatives
696_ .G. Blackford, M .................... 104.40
C. R. Shaw, SW
H. W. Stripling, JW
F. H. Stewart
697.... E. W. Gow, M
K. W. Chinn, SW
R.H. Burrows, Insp
W. McCosh
W.R. Meyer
J. S. Pursley
698 ....R. B. McCallum. M.............. 80.60
L. L. Cooper. SW
V. N. Legerton, JW
W. S. Kisselbur9h
699 .... R. C. Blossom, M.................. 85.80
A. C. Happel. SW
H. C. Lockhart, JW
H. D. Lemons, Insp
H. L. Ch ase
W. T. Killin9sworth
R. A. Sherod
700.... S. Brown. JW----··-····-···--·--···· 36.60
701....R. Veach, SW·--------··-·······-···· 60.00
L. Busony, JW
702 ... J. E. Mothersead. SW.......... 82.40
G. W. Abshier, JW
J. F. Graham
703.... G. G. See. M ...-----·-------·········· 80.80
M. R. Harriman, SW
R. W.Connolly,JW
H. L. Clarke
W.R. Cox
C. E. Donaldson
705.... T. W. Hansen, M
R. M. Gorrell, SW
W. F. Postmus, JW
706....Q. N . Grout, M
E. K. N ewman, SW
P . Granberg, JW
L. J. Wells
707.... S. A. Jenkins, M.....
38.40
E. Aceves, SW
H. D. Minster, JW
708.... 0. 0 . Crank, M....... ............. 91.60
D .E. New, SW
M. E. Hiles, JW
E.W. Hill
709.... L. F. P erkins, M
E . C. Will, Insp
J. H. Vanden Bos
710.... E. W. Thornton, M.............. 75.20
W. J. Berry. SW
S. P. Putnik, JW
711 ....W . R. Kirksey, M................ 93.80
0. N. T weeten, SW
H. A. Barnes, JW
J. D. Williams. !esp

No.of
Mile.
Lod(Je
Representatives
Allow.
712 ... C. T. Vincent, M ................. . 6.40
G. N_ Hoss, SW
D. L. Jones, JW
713....E. E. Proffitt, M ___ .._______________
5.00
L. C. Mendelsohn, SW
H. R. Gilbert, JW
714....T. G. Wall1n11. M
J. M. White, JW
715-...G. D. Shepard, SW.............. 79.20
M. L. Occhl, JW
W. L. Byram
R. E. Swann
7!6 ____ p_ R. Carman, M.................... 85.80
R. L. Gandt, SW
O.D. Akin
717....D. G. Logan, M------····-·-···--···· 82.60
R. A. Lamb, SW
A. F. Dukellis, JW
718.... E. G. Ocker, M-----·····---····--··· 14.40
J. A. Chilton, SW
W. M. Beers
E. F. Russell
719....M. W. Cecil. SW................ 47.40
720....W. E. Page, M.·-·-----······-----·· 44.80
R.H. Dinsmoor, SW
A. C. Twinem
721....H. J. Zinkow, M.................... 78.00
B. Ennis, SW
D. Trihich. JW
M. Thisted
I. Wapner
722 ....W. A. Watson, M .... ____________ 10.60
J. V. Belli. SW
D. 0 . Green, JW
L. E. Hendricks
723 ....C. A. Nilsen, M
0. Graf, SW
K. Heuer, JW
R. L. Nicolai
724 ... J. H. Spooner, M..................
6.60
725....N. Swenson, SW------····----····
5.00
F. Preston, JW
G . C. Connors
R. Kerr
726....G. L. Miller. SW.___________________ 93.60
R. B. Lawrence
80.00
727.... J. E. Sloan. M ......................
S. F. Bush. SW
0. M. McCartney, JW
K. Barrette
P. B. Stone
728.... G. W. John, M________________________ 84.00
L. E. Johnson, SW
E. F. Edwards, JW
D. E. Keith

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

No. of
Mile.
Lod(Je
Representative11
Allow.
729 .... G. L. Williams, M ................ 83.40
R. E. Lee, Sr., SW
730.... W. E. Benson, M .....
17.80
E. S. Hod ges, SW
I. V. Morris, JW
E. E . Seagle. Insp
731....K. Keith. SW.................... ...... 83.00
J. E. Hintergardt, JW
732 ....C. C. Hunter, M____________________ 17.80
733 .... N . Conn, M------------·-··········-- 17.20
D. Hutson, SW
J. Robinson
R. K. Titus
734.... A. B. Davis, M..................... . 17.20
N. H. Helm, JW
J. E. Roderick, Tr.
735-...T. L. Hunt. SW........... ........ 102.80
736.... R. Brehm, SW...................... __ 106.60
W. E. Rife
737... .D. M. Geesey, SW
W. Gross, Jr., JW
J. Burszan, Jr.. Insp
738 ....W. C. Mecham, M........
62.40
739 ....G. G. Dunn, Jr., M................ 80.40
E. D. Williams, SW
G. A. Cook, JW
740 ...J. S. Elliott, M ........................ 82.80
D. N. Johnson, SW
A. F . Prenger, JW
R. K. Tassie
741....E. F . Godfrey, M.................. 83.60
G. E. Reynolds, SW
742 ....C. W. Fitzgerald. M............ 83.00
L. S. Carter, SW
A. E. Linde
F. R. Portune
743....E. E. Fitz, M.......................... 80.-iO
R. F. Burnes, SW
C. F. Kumpe, JW
C. E . Glaze
J. B. Twedt
744 ..F . L. Luscher, M
G. M. Pittman, SW
J. W. Parker
715 .... R. Sterner, M
R. R. Scneder. SW
R. G. Knorr, JW
J.E. Young
746.... W. M. Wong, M................ 15.20
D . J. Sachau, SW
B. J. Seibel. JW
747....T. L. Walston, Sr., SW........ 105.60
7-i8.... L. W . Savage, M.................. 89.60
749....L. A. Wallace, ER................ 25.60
L. P. Sow:a, Insp

HS

No.of
Mile·.
Lod(Je
Repre:Jentatives
Allow.
H. M. Beam
F. T . Houston
750....W . G . Foate, M ................... . 86.20
75 1 .W. M . Standley, M ..............
5.60
G. H. Lewis, SW
I. C. C ampbell, JW
R. W. Bussman
J.M. Conway
J.E. Hoekman
G . N. Rodgers
G. J. Roth
752....J. A. Friedrichsen, M ........... . 10.80
J.E. P lunkett, JW
E. B. Personctt
753 __J, R. Werner, M .................... 82.80
R. G. August, SW
J. ]. Bauer
754 .... E. Fuller, M
H . Wyman.SW
755.... C. L. Lester. SW.................... 82.00
756....L. C. Parr. M ........................
6.20
J. C. Chemoh, SW
A. L. Vargus, JW
G. A. Adams
757....C. N. Clarkson
758....N. R. Gorrell, M
0. C. Hielscher. SW
0. H . Kienitz, JW
L. C. Hall. lnsp.
O.D.Ho lm
759.... B. Lopez, SW.... ___________________ _ 83.00
R. C ummins, JW
P.A. Morris
760....L. B. So merville, SW........... . 106.40
C. L. Hodges. JW
J. E. Mikol. Insp
B. J. Conrad
F. Green , Sr.
761....R. F. Locke, Jr.. M ............... 6.-iO
H. T. Pollard, JW
T. J. McWilllam
H. Nixon
762....W. L. Chesson, SW
J. E. W arren, JW
C. W . Howell
E. C. Kinney
J.E. Rag land
G. F. Staley
763.... R. McKarus, M ...................... 80.60
J. Wa!an
764....C. F. Guyson, Sr., M ............ 78.00
W.Dver.SW
P. 0. Miser, JW
765....R. B. C.Onklln, SW................ 8H O
J. G. Yuen, JW
C. J. Echelberger

H6

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Repre~nfafive:s
Lodge
785....W. D. Smith, M.................... 82.20
D. L. Pedersen, SW
H. L. Maine, JW
786.... W. B. Shepherd, M ................ 20.00
J. H. Stout. SW
P. J. Burdick, JW
G.D. Whitlach
787 .... F. D. Kennedy. M........ ........ 86.20
R. L. Kennedy, SW
\V. R. Nelson, JW
788 ....Not Represen ted
789....C. R. Delaney, JW........... ..... 17.20
790....R. A. Wrede, M.............. ... ... 75.60
C. A. Huffine. SW
E. E. Webster, J\V
0. H. 11rnrston
791....C. E . Wheeler, M.................. 74.40
792.... E. R. Sorenson, M
M. E. Ulshoeffer, SW
T. F. Hoey, )W
A. P. Cassidy
R. S . GoldHam
A. R. Powers
793....R. G . Quiroz, ER.................... 80.60
S. Esquivel
794....G . W . Wardwell . Jr.. M...... 82.00
W. A. Jensen. SW
S. Abdallah, JW
T. \V. Heidner. Insp
N.M.Oti s
795.... C. G . Abbott, M.................... 22.00
J. A . B!yant. SW
H . D. Hanawalt, Jr.. JW
796....N. V. Ryan, M......... ............. 90.80
H. L. Hopkins, SW
H. P. Puthoff, Jr.
797....M. E. Conception, M............ 80.60
B. B. Levin
D. R. Ross. M
....
798
80.40
P. G. Meier, SW
H. R. Brooke, JW
F. R. Johnson
85.40
E. A. Koontz
A. R. Perryman
9:40
799 ....W. A. Taylor, M .................. 104.40
C.H. Anderson, Jr., SW
J.E. Meyers, JW
800....L. M. Burd, M........................ 83.20
R. P. Parker, SW
70.00
D. D. Doyle, JW
H. M. M agill
32.40 801....R. Y. Chun, SW .................... 285.09
I. Nishimura, JW
802....0. Dombrowski, SW............ 97.40
803 ....S. Grossman, M ..........-........... 21.60

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Repre~ntafives
Lodge
P. F. Lucas
H. C. M cLendon
L. G. Reynolds
766 .... R. J. Hocking. SW................ 83.00
W. Robusch. Insp
W. A. Mcintyre
767 ....W. P. Reno, M.............. ........ 80.60
768.... Not Represented
769 ....G. E. Halverstadt. M............ 77.40
W. B. Burleson. SW
J. W. Stapp, JW
770.... W. E. DeGarmo, SW.......... 5.00
). B. Craven, JW
G. T. Loher, Jr.
M. L. Reite
771....J. C. Owings, M ........-........... 104.40
C. C. Leonard, SW
J. 0. Collier, JW
772.... Not Represented
773....A. Kinkade, M ........................ 57.80
G. A. Worrell, SW
J. G. Martinez. JW
G. C. Poloynis
774 ....T. Yoshida, SW.................. 285.09
775 ....G. K. Frisbie, ER.....-.--......... 100.20
776....R. A. Tholll50ll, M ...- ........... 82.60
0. 0. Brdiges, SW
W. ). Newton, JW
777.._.c. W. Baze, SW.................. 26.40
778 ....W. S. Kunke, M .................. .. 84.60
R. E. W ade. SW
B. H. H amlett
R. L. Riemer
E. G. V an Pelt
85.80
779....t.~~~~~.f~

. ·- - - -. . . . ..

C. R. H einz
780.... L. D. Hart, M ...................... ..
R. J. Collins, JW
J. B. Patterson
78 1....L. T. Brown, SW..................
K. J. Bachenhelmer
782 .... L. P. Neff, M ................... ......
P. G. Phillips, SW
J. E. Kilg ore. JW
R.H. Bantz
J. W. Kennedy
783.... R. L. Duke, M ................. ...... .
R. E. Moore
784....J. W. Matthews, Jr., M ....... .
R. T. Hunt.SW
J. Burlile. JW
L. 0. Sine
G.B. Weibel

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Mile.
No. of
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
804....N. Kostysh ak. SW... .......... .. 93.00
R. 0 . Neal. JW
'VV. L. Schooler
F. W . Scurlock
805.... S. C. Henzel, M ................... . 83.40
M. J. Bowd. SW
J. L. Shaw
806 .... M. W. Waite. M ................ .. 77.00
K. Neumann, SW
H. E. Entler, JW
807....H . I. Smith. M ....................... . 77.00
J. J. Schwartz, SW
808 ....J. C. Blakkolb. M ................ .. 16.40
M. J. Judson. SW
R. V. Stall
809 .... A. W. Barrows, M ............... . 86.20
R. W. Worden. S\V
810.... R. L. Hirt. M ....................... . 92.00
8 11....L. M. Orphan, M .................. .. 78.60
M. L. Heyma n, SW
R. Gre!lory. JW
R. G. Wanless
812.... J. P. Wolfe. M ..................... . 82.00
N. H . Lee. SW
M. Fernandez . JW
813... 0. C. Heximer. M ................. 74.20
H. Kempel, JW
8 14 .... F. M. Franz. M .................... .. 80.60
I. J. Clampitt. SW
W. G . Browne, JW
E.W. Schncringer. Insp
A. Dvorin
815 ....R. J. Sieber, M .................... .. 86.80
w. c. Ulery. sw·
J. L. Kizziar, JW
816....M. S. McPhee, M .................. 79.20
W. L. Hogan

H7

M ile.
No.of
Allow.
Representatives
Lodge
8 17....N. Kerger, M........................ .. 82.20
K. 0. Guyer. SW
8.20
8 18....E . A. Dykstra. M..................
J. R. Stewart, SW
L C. Bisgrove, JW
E . W.Canno n
C. J. Davis
H. E . Sargent
819 ....R. V. H aig. M........................ 80.60
E. D. Herke lrath. SW
D. E. Lamoureux. JW
G. B. Bates
A. E. F raser
820... .L. R. Moor, M.............. .......... 91.60
R. D. O iDomenico, SW
A. C. Arff
\.V. H. Johnson
82 !.. .. R. Hope lain , M.................... 24.00
\V. H. Carr, SW
R. E. Tilly
822. ...J. Clements. SW........... ......... 76.20
J. 0. Fourr, GSB
823.... S. Wynman. SW.................. 82.40
P. B. F lorio
824.... J. L. Whaley. M.................... 77.00
T. 0. Pease. SW
W . E . Ballard, JW
L K. Meadows
825 ....E. L. MacCarth y. M............ 6.60
J. S. Kemper, SW
G. H. David
H. B. Herring
826 ....D. W . Lyons, M .................... 104.20
R. 0. Pillow, SW
Kern River V alley, U.D .
C. D. Ackermiln. M.............. ...... 69.80
TOTAL .................................. $36.244 .68

~

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

~

With Membership. Charter Dates. Fees. Dues. Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments. Contributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" includes $1.60 for Grand Lodge plus $1.50 for Masonic Homes, $0.35 for publication, California
Freema.son. and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributlon.s" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G . W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Membership statistics apply to the year ending June 30, A.L. 5968.
For location of Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges.
Lodge

Charter

De..:;r~e

No.

l11 ued

Pees

California ........ ·-····-·-..···· 1
Western Star .........- ......... 2
Tehama ................-·-·-··· 3
Benicia ................................ 5
Tuolumne .......................... 8
Corinthian .......................... 9
San Jose ....................._______ 10
Yount .....................--....-... 12
Nevada .......................- ..... 13
Temple ................................ 1'I
Eureka ................................ 16
La Parfaite Union.............. 17
Mounta in Shade ................ 18
San Joaquin ........................ 19
Washing ton ............._..____ 20
Hawaiian ............................ 21
Occidental .......................... 22
Madison .............................. 23
M ariposa ............................ 24
Georgetown ........................ 25
El Dorado ...................-.... 26
Trinity ................................ 27
Golden Gate Speranza ...... 30
Gold Hill ..._......... - ........... 32
Ophir .................................. 33
San Diego ........................_ 35
Howard ...................- ........ 37
Santa Cruz .... - .........- ...... 38
Sacramento ......- -.......... 40
Martinez ............................ 41
Los Angeles ........................ -t2
H.iram ......................____ -t3
Mount Moriah -·-···------ -t-t

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
185 2
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
18S4

100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
100
100
75
125
125
175
100
78
50
100
75
125
100
50
75
100
50
100
100
75
150
75
100

Cre.tc:ent ...................- - 45
Texas ................................ -t6
Forbestown ·······- --------·- 50
lllinoistown ...............- ....... 51
Suisun .........- ....- .......-..... SS
V olcano ...................- ......... S6
Santa Rosa ---··--··-···-··-· 57·
Union .................................. 58
Gravel Range .................... 59
Plumas ................................ 60
Live Oak ............................ 61
Natoma .............................. 6i
Amador .............................. 65
Morning Star ....... _........... 68
EnterMlse .......................... 70
Bear· ountaln .................. 76
Calaveras ............................ 78
Humboldt ............................ 79
lone .................................... 80
Yolo .................................... 81
Vesper ................................ 84
Naval .................................. 87
Rose's Bar .......................... 89
North Star .......................... 9 1
St. Helena .......................... 93
Henry Clay ........................ 95
Hornitos .............................. 98
Yosemite ............................ 99
Clay .................................... 101
Oroville .............................. 103
Lexington .......................... 101·
Arcata ................................ 106
Pajaro ................................ 110
Chico ..................................111
Summit ................................ 112
Eden .................................... 113
Concord ............... - ..........._ l 17
Fidelity .............................. 120
Alamo .................................. 122
Sotoyome ............................ 123
Table Mountain ..... -......... 124
La Payette ........................ 126
Hermann ........................- 127
Visalia ................................ 128

18S4
1854
1854
1854
18S5
1855
18S5
1855
18SS
185S
1855
18SS
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
18SS
1856
1856
1856
18S6
1856
18S6
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
18S6
18S7
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
18S8
18S8
18S8
1858
1858
18S8
1859

125
50
65
60
115
50

A ff ii.
Pees

Members

Duca

lnit.

20

383
239
756
231
293
428
485
538
202
301
402
97
60
738
807
362
493
333
186
79
303
165
610
124
120
1068
274
532
760
389
11 09
150
261

18
15
15
18
12
18
18
18
16
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
18
18
15
25
15
18
15
12
20
20
12
16
20
21
18
12

5

-10
-

2
5
5

-2
-

15
5
10
10

-

25

--

-

5
10
2
10

-

1
1
10

-

10

JO
10

10
5
5

5

-JO

75

5

100

10

50
75
75
100
50
100
75
50
85
85
86
50
100
90
50
50

50

so
90
90

50

-

2
1

s

-

-

10

s

5

2
10
10

-

5

100

125
75
75
90
50
lOS
115
100
75
75
80

75
100
75

5

5.
3
10
5

-

-

5

5

-10
15

-

5
1
2
20

-

212
73
151
81
333
141
627
635
109
170
768
397
100
626
372
85
134
519
103
99
242
J038
94
102
126
92
106
494
99
383
611
323
376
597
82
i29
346
565
491
240
365
220
1i6

559

15
20
12
15
15
21
15
18
20
15
20
20
15
16
15
15
20
12
18
16
20
12
16
IS
12
16
16
12

15

16
15
18
20
18
15
12
18
18
15
18
15
21
20
24
lS

1

Ii
5

Paascd

R aised

Per Capita

G. L.

Me mbero
Contrib.

5

6

1268.90
790.25
2552.20
780.10
9M.05
1390.20
1624.30
1797.90
679.95
1126.00
1323.80
394.60
236.65
2479.85
2696.90
1251.70
1673.80
1125.85
591.05
264.95
982.50
552.40
2040.05
406.65
479.65
3595.90
890.70
1758.95
2588.20
1306.45
3798.65
680.50

200.00
35.00
490.00
175.00
210.00
130.00
340.00
95.00
350.00
180.00
210.00
70.00
35.00
305.00
470.00
200.00
105.00
175.00
105.00
35.00
140.00
70.00
280.00
165.00
140.00
1220.00
70.00
250.00
455.00
105.00
1865.00
165.00

699.75
361.S5
S36.75
280.3S
1216.75
570.95
2109.70
2067.55
560.15
S79.1S
2568.85
1362.60
326.60
2111.40
121S.OO
320.iO
H6.20
1856.65
353.05
341.6S
803.30
3H7.35
336.90
H8.00
408.70
271. 15
35S.75
1693.lS
333.65
1283.35
2100. 15
1100.0S
1226.85
1905.3S

200.00
175.00
210.00
105.00
465.00
105.00
435.00
130.00
175.00
210.00
-t35.00
340.00
35.00
175.00
lOS.00
70.00
35.00
105.00
105.00
140.00
140.00
420.00
295.00
105.00

-

4
26
2
5
13
3
49
4
1

6
4
9
1
1
11
11
5
1
5

-

3

4
4
9

-

- 2
12
14
4

-

7
3
3

6
2
3
18
6
10
11
4
26

4
1

5

3
2

5
5

5
2

4

2
8
4

7

7
2

7

7
8
2

7

5

3
2
8

3

3
4
l
6
2
4
21
5
12
10
3
42
5
1

5

-

7
4
4

-

5
6
3
9
3
11
3
6
11
9
1
5
3
2
1
3
3
4
4
12
7
3

10

10
4

6

4

6

13
8
3
3

6
3
9
2
10
3
2
1
8
12
5
3
5
3
I
4
2
8

2

5

JO
13
2

8
3
1
1

5
3
3
1
9

7
1'f
2
8
3
1
2
5
2
3
1
6

7

8

2

3

-

-

-

2
1
6

3
1
6
2
2
6

853.90

2
9
5
7

7
7

5
2
8
12

5
6
2
11
10

8
6
6
2
10
8

5

5

4

2
2

3
3
3

2

5
5

1427.35
llSS.OS
1894.9S
1728. 15
811.30
1329.65
713.50
536.10

5

3

1907.25

to
6
5
to

4

4
5

8

286.35

00

35.00

--

105.00
70.00
305.00

--

105.00
350.00
210.00
200.00
37S.OO
1'10.00
175.00
7.0.00
280.00
H5.00

17S.OO
120.00
95.00

HO.DO

~

225.00

ID

~

No.

Cbartrr
l11ued

Nicola us ···----------·--····---··· 129
Woodbridge ...................... 131
Sincerity ............................132
Vacaville ···-················-·····134
Valley ····-····-··----···--······--··135
Pacific ··········-··············-··--136
Crockett ·························-··· 139
Curtis ··········--·········-···········140
Grafto n ········---··--······-······· 141
Franklin .............................. 143
Oriental .............................. 144
Vitruvius ............................ 145
Abell ............................. -..... 146
Eel River ............................ 147
Lassen ................................ 149
Molino ···············-············-150
Woodland ......... - ............... 156
Keystone ..... ·-····-····-···-... 161
Harmony ............................ 164
Excelsior ·········-·············-···166
Alameda .....................- ..... 167
Redwood City .................... 168
Mission .............................. 169
Elk Grove ....... - ................. 173
Drytown ······--··-----------···174
Antioch .............................. 175
Phoenix ···-··-·--·--···--··-··--178
Mendocino ·-·---······---······--179
Petaluma ............................ 180
Russian River .................... 181
Arbuckle .....................- ..... 182
Clear Lake .......................... 183
Sierra Valley .................... 184
Claiborne ............................ 185
Evening Star -·····------·--·--·-·186
Keith ··················----·-·······----187
Oakland .............................. 188
Northern Light ·---···-·-----190
Marin .................................. 191
Santa Barbara -········-··-···-192
Ferndale ······-·········-···-··· 193
Mountain View ·------194.

1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869

Lodi"

Decree
Peu

50
50

135
115

50
100

75
75

A ff ii.

Fcu
5

-5

-

12
20

-

5

75

50

-5

100

10

75

50

50
100
50
50
50

-

-

2

50

100
102
100
100

50

50

75
75

5
5
5
1

50
IO

-

50
115

-

50
50
50
50
75

90
100

75

50
100

5

-

100
80

75

1

5
5
5
1

25

5

5
2
1

5

10

-

5

M cmben

146
197
89
313
99
467
360
102
100
132
269
144
346
266
244
146
316
49
33
322
372
660
501
153
74
372
713

95
324
124
78
164
33
76
77

186
591
125
503
358
86
400

Du..

!nit.

Paseed

Raiocd

12
20
18
20
18
16
15
15
12
25
15
15
24
12
15
20
15
16
12
18
16
18
18
18
15
12
16
18
18
20
18
24
12
18
15
24
18
18
20
24
18
JS

6
3
1
8
2
4
1
1
2

5

4
1
4

-

3
2
3

l

5
-

-

-

-

-

3
10
12

-

'

-

4
1
8
7
3
4
4
3
2
2
2
3
4
2
7

11
3
9

1

5
5

7
4
4
6

7

8
2
2

-

-

6
3
4

-

7

-

5

1

7

-

-

-

5

5
7
2
4
8

-

2
14
11
1

-

2
2
1
1

9
2
6
1
6
1
1
4
3

7
11
2

2
16
14
2
6
t
8
10
1
7
1

-

9
1
1

2
1
3
8
9
i

7

7

1
2
10
6
3
1

G. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

504.10
788.25
343.15
1101.45
337.65
1525.20
1164.45
423.00
372.00
438.85
844.15
516.05
1002.00
911.10
949.65
494.30
1091.15
164.15
110.55
1055.55
1287.75
2103.95
1567.80
497.40
237.50
1245.75
2334.15
415.85
1089.00
519.70
394.30
556.35
114.55
250.90
247.90
609.00
1970.25
455.05
1732.00
1220.25
297.10
1384.65

210.00
130.00
35.00
355.00
70.00
140.00
60.00
85.00
70.00

~

Vl

0

--

130.00
95.00
155.00
245.00
140.00
140.00
245.00
105.00
425.00
420.00

-

140.00
35.00
280.00
355.00
105.00
140.00
140.00
130.00
70.00
70.00
70.00

-

155.00
140.00
70.00
280.00
435.00
105.00
340.00

Buckeve .............................. 195
San Simeon -·-- ·······-··········196
Wilmington ........................ 198
Hartley ·-········--·····----···· 199
Truckee ···-·····--·---- --200
Silveyvll1e ·······---···--·-···201
Peotalpha ..........................202
Confidence ........................... 203
Sallnas ·········-------··········-204
Olivet ..................................205
Stanislaus ..........................206
Anaheim ............................207
Rio Vista ............................ 208
King D avid"s ·····-·············--209
Friendship .......................... 210
San Benito ..........................211
South San Prancisco.......... 212
San Buenaventura -····-··--214
Oak Grove ........................215
Doric ·········--··-····-·-········216
Monterey ............................217
Mosaic ................................ 218
Downey .............................. 220
Inyo ........................- ......... 221
Roseville .. --·····-·-·--·····--····222
Bakersfield ..........................224
Brooklyn ............................ 225
San Mateo .......................... 226
Athens ........._ ....................228
Solano ............- ----········--229
North Butte ........................ 230
Covelo ................................231
Janesville ···--··- ···- ----········232
Calistoga ................---····---· 233
Hope ..................................234
Surprise V alley .............-.235
Hills Perry ········----··--·······236
Guadalupe ..........................237
Colusa ................................ 240
Santa Ana ..........................241
M agnolia ............................ 242
Eucalyptus --·········-··-·----···243
Alcatraz ..............................244
Laurel ..................................245

1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877

85
75
125
65
90
90
100
75
105
50
75
105
100
100
115
65
95
100
100
100

75

100
125
50

75

100
75
100
90

75
75
50

75

50
50

75
75
75

so

75

100
99

75

50

25

-

10
10

5

20

-

-

26
t

s·

1
10

-

l
10

-

5
10

10
JO
5
JO

5

-

5

10
l

-

10
5

132
101
615
250
113
142
352
127
574
143
636
538
165
400
675
164
209

HO

483
335
277
307
783
144
519
700
370
560
200
471
315
64
137
105
99
100
166
272
155
578
547
559
430
232

20

1
1

1
1

16
15
20
20
20
18
24
20
15
18
18
15
15
20
15
18
18
18
24
18
50
18
15
22
18
24
15
16
18
15
18
18
18
15
12
15
18
21
18
30
15
18

15
10
2
1
1

12

15

2

7
1
14
28
1

7

12
1
l

7

3
1
2
1
JO
I
12
20
1
6
13
2
-

9

9

2
3
i
10
II
3
18
16
3

6
4
3
11
21
4
18
12
-

7

4

7
7
1

-

4
1
1

4
i
2
17
10
8
8
3

-

8
5
6
5
1
4
1

2
4
2
15
13

7
8
3

4
1
11
1
9
18
1
5
10
l
2
10
6
6
2
10
13
3
21
11
1
11
6
4
5
2
4
1

-

-

2
3
3

11
11

11
10
2

445.20
339.00
2083.85
888.80
446.85
455.25
1181.05
496.10
1994.15
510.35
2158.90
1851.55
549.05
1341.25
2279.50
553.40
69 1.25
1491.95
1565.05
1123.40
916.85
1085.95
2612.65
492.40
1782.30
2340.45
1258.40
1878.55
678.30
1561.35
1045.45
215.05
482.55
331.30
329.30
324.95
560.75
908.80
487.90
1955.85
1944.70
1878.55
1339.20
831.75

35.00
35.00
575.00
375.00
70.00
35.00
60.00
70.00
295.00
35.00
515.00
1105.00
35.00
245.00
420.00
35.00
35.00
315.00
70.00
130.00
140.00
375.00
435.00
130.00
680.00
560.00
105.00
245.00
165.00
245.00
270.00
35.00
165.00
35.00
60.00

-

140.00
190.00
70.00
645.00
625.00
355.00
280.00
105.00

~

Vl

Cha nu

No.

Lodi•

laoued

Pomona _ ........................... 216
Fresno ................................ 247
Alturas ................................218
Adin ....................................250
Landmark .......................... 253
Reading .............................254
Welcome ............................255
Lodi ....................................256
Penrhyn ..............................258
Evergreen ..........................259
King Solomon's Seaport....260
Tuscan .................................261
Lompoc .....- ....................-.262
Huperlan ........................_261
Orland ................................265
Galt ....................................267
Durant ................................268
Olive Branch ......................269
Snow Mo untain ................ 271
Pasadena ···- ······- ··............. 272
Anchor ···············-···············273
Arroyo ................................ 274
Oakdale ......................... ..._.275
Selma ···-·······················--277
Southern California ..........278
Hanford ..............................279
Madera .............................. 280
Mount Shasta ....................28 1
Callayoml .......................... 282
South West ..................- ...283
Paso Robles ---····- ···········286
Wlnnedumah ....................287
Maxwell .................- ....._.288
Elsinore ..............................289
East Gate ......................_.290
Santa Paula .. ............. _ ...... 291
Los Gatos ..........................292
Orange Grove .............- ..... 293
Traver ...........................- ... 29-t
Mt. Jackson ........................295
Silver Gate .........- .........-296
Dunsmuir ............................297
~~

Liberty ------·-·--- ·-·299

Redlands ----·········-···-··---.300
Ontario ...............- .............301
Santa Lucia ........... - ...........302
Portervllle ·········-····· ..........303
Reedley ..............................301
Azusa ..................................305
Ashlar ············-····.............306
Santa Monica ·············-····-307
Monrovia ............... _ ..........308
Delano ···--------...............309
Sisson - ---······-············-.310
Los Banos ..........................312
Tehachapi ···················-····.313
Temescal ............................311
Norwalk ............................315
Sanger ................................ 316
Fallbrook ···············-··········317
Hollenbeck ........................319
South Gate - ....................320
Alisal .................................. 321
Alhambra ···-·······-·-······- ·..322
Whittler ····-············· .......... 323
Corona ···- ··············-·-·-·····324
Consuelo ............................325
Needles ..............................326
Long Beach ........................327
Redondo .............................. 328
Vallee de Prance..·- ··- ·····329
Kilauea ................................330
Pacillc Grove ........- .........331
San Pedro ..........................332
Alta ·····-··-···················--..333
Cov ina ·····-····-···················331
West G ate .........·-···-·······335
Fruitva le .............................336
Carquinez ··-·-···-··-····-···337
San Jacinto ···-··········-....... .338
Fullerton -··········--···········-·339
Oxnard ········--·-·-··········.311
San Fernando .......--.-343
Starr King _____.. _______.341
Brentwood ·--····-··-········315
Palo AJto ·······-············.316

1877
1878
1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1881
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889

--

Desrec
f'cea

Al!'il.
f'-

~mben

Duea

!nit.

P.-d

IWoed

115
80

-

2
1

18
18
18
12
16
30

4
13
6
2

9
10
1
3
1
8
6
1
3
12
4
1
17
10
2
4
1
1

7

50
50
90
90

127
625
171
92
101
318
190
387
111
712
497
79
367
148
167
89
301
284
43
459
528
210
220
199
340
216
263
187

65

75

50
75
115
50
100

75

50
50
80

75
75
115
125

75
75
80

75

100

75

3
5
-

2

5

-

5

I

-

-

90

-5

105

I
3

75

75

100

75
75
75
90

75
100
80

75

100
50

-

125
75
75
75
50
75
115

75

125
120
100
50
75
75
75
115
75
55
100
100
100
100
100
115
90

75

125
125
100
125
105
125
53
115
165
100
75
65
125
100
125
100
65
100

66
519
332
236
58
117
521
401
461
406
132
117
1129
212

10

-1
1

-

5

---

~

1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
189 1
189 1
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1891
1891
1891
1891
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902

-1

10

-

--

15
2
-

-2 ,

5
-

1
25

12
5
25

5

--

10

10
5

25

15
12
24
18
18
20
18
15
15
20
25
12
20
20
20
18
20
18
18
20
18
18
16
15
18
18
18
12
21
18
18
20
21
18
15

-

JO

6
1
6
11
6
1
15
12

-

5
I
6

7

-

-

1

5
5
2
3
4
1
4
2

11

2
6
1
3
3
4
13
11
2
2
10
2

2

5
4
1
3
4
2
6
2
10
2
3
3
3
3
3
14

13
2
1
9
2

10
3
1
1

7
5

1
5
12
3
3
17

10
2
3
1
4

-

10
3
4
4
2
2

5

1
8
2
11
2
1
2
3
3
1
13
11
3

-

8

2

C . L.
Per Ypiu

Membe"
Contrib.

1433.70
2029.60
539.30
402.50
333.65
1161.00
613.15
1261.10
161.05
2120.20
1674.60
281.25
1275.10
153 1.00
516.70
306.80
991.25
955.35
140.70
1783.85
1758.05
711.15
716.55
693.25
1118.10
859.85
881.70
641.15
188.75
1872.70
1111.85
796.90
196.95
400.95
1730.90
1412.60
1574.30
1359.35
439.15
164.95
3789.05
686.05

140.00
155.00
235.00
95.00

-

~

413
487
510
159
505
111
316
311
346
261
226
96
186
171
295
383
300
179
571
381
223
585
626
113
179
313
607
796
118
187
300
586
140
568
1093
677
163
117
425
119
720
506
171
726

21
20
18
18
30
18
20
21
18

25

18
18
18
18
20
50
12
15
18
18
18
24
40

20
20
16
16
16
15
15
20
24
12
18
21
18
15
18
21
25
20
15
15
12

11

13

9
10
I
9

13

-

5

7
7
9
2
2
1
I

7

13

5
6
1
3

7

9
10

5

-

1
8

1
3
9
9
3
I
1
1
8
16
6
7
4
2
3
6
16

5

7

11
1

16
2
6
16
3

7

13
3
3

i
11
1
11

11
11
6
3
10

11

i
5
10
2
19

11
8
2
2

5

13
6
2

12
18
8
2

6

6

15
12
4
1
11

-

1
2
11
10
5
1
2
2
6
17
6
5

5
2

7
8
19
10
13
2
9
16
1

i
1
17
1
18
18
6
1
3
8
8
16

11
1

7

..
Vt

N

--

350.00
235.00
35.00
210.00
485.00
210.00
60.00
625.00
415.00

--

200.00
35.00
210.00

-

245.00
35.00
225.00
200.00
70.00
130.00
110.00
165.00
110.00
95.00
160.00
70.00
210.00
35.00
105.00
130.00
140.00
180.00
515.00
70.00
70.00
400.00
70.00

'
1385.70
1655.40
1792.30
532.30
1706.00
175.70
1018. 15
1013.80
1071.05
9 65.65
733.60
360.60
652.10
559.75
982.45
13 15.65
1018.65
610.95
1862.55
1226.10
8 17.35
1962.65
2023.05
1368.70
1961.30
996.60
2032.00
2571.25
357.25
630.75
1067.95
2239.00
609.30
2359.00
36 17.10
2301.15
531.60
428.25
1833.35
1187.55
2132.20
1609.55
567.80
2121.30

160.00
365.00
400.00
85.00
315.00

-

175.00
215.00
315.00
315.00
70.00
70.00
85.00
35.00
270.00
155.00
175.00
285.00
60.00
105.00
270.00
315.00
125.00
250.00
650.00
35.00
345.00
580.00
105.00
105.00
165.00
190.00
110.00
135.00
385.00
385.00
235.00
130.00
100.00
190.00
555.00
235.00
120.00
260.00

..

Vt
w

Charter
(.,ued

Dcaru

No.

McKinley .......................... 347
San Bernardino ................348
Sequoia ·······-····-······-·······349
Palestine ...........................351
Sunset ................................ 352
Pinole ·······-·······················353
Presidio .............................. 354
Hollywood ........................355
Mill Valley ..................... .356
Buena Park ···-··········-····.357
Golden State .................... 358
Loyalton ............................359
San Francisco-Victory ....360
Fort Bragg ················-······361
Charity ···········-····-··-······.362
Berkeley ·········-··--·············363
Willits ···········-··-···············365
Las Palmas ···········-····-····.366
South Pasadena ···-··········367
Unity .. ····················-·········368
Ocean Park ·············-····-···369
Amity-Seal Rock .............. 370
le Progres de J'Oceanie ..... .371
Gardena -··············-····-·······372
West Los Angele.s........_..... 373
Jewel ···········-·····················374
Richmond .......................... 375
Francis Drake ----------------.376
Artesia ···-··········-········-···.377
Mizpah ·····················-·········378
Fillmore ···············-··-··-····379
Huntington Beach ·-·········380
Oceanside ·········-··············.381
Highland Park ···--··-······.382
Oros! ·····················-···········383
El Centro ···············-···········384
Dinuba ··-··········------·--··-3lS5
Coalinga ·····-······--·-··-····-387
Parnassus ···············-····- ··388
Palos Verdes ····-- -- ···389
Imperial ···----·-··--·--390
East Belt ··-··-----391

1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908

115
75
100
100
100
75
100
125
100
125
100
50
100
75
100

West Lake -·······--···-····.392
Balder -···············- ··-- ········.393
University ···-··--··-------.394
Turlock ·····--·--··- ··-··-····.395
Apollo ···········- ····-······----.396
Rising Light ···- ····--··-····.397
Fraternity ···- ··- - ····- ····-···399
Burlingame ·······-···············400
Bay View ········-····- ··-·····401
Brawley ··-···-·-······-······.402
Yerba Buena ··········-··········403
Glendora ·········-······-··-····.404
Moneta ..............................405
Burbank ·····-·······················406
La Mesa ............................407
Sierra Madre ......................408
Honolulu ·······················---409
Perris ·········-······- ··-··········· 411
Calexico ·····················- ······· 412
Arlington ............................ 414
Silver Trowel ·········- ·········415
Lindsay ···········-·················416
Clovis ·········-···················--- 417
Elysian ·····-····--·-···············418
Upland ···················-····-····· 419
Kerman ............................. .420
Inglewood ..........................421
Eugle Rock ····················---422
York ·························-·········423
Exeter ···············-······-·······424
Holtville ·············-··-·········4 25
Midway·_·········--····-··-··-·--426
Chino Valley ·····-··· -······.427
San D imas ···--··--·············428
Pittsburg ···········-········-····.4 29
McCloud ···············-····-·····430
Alpha ·················- -······-431
Ha mmonton ···············-··-···433
Maricopa ···········-----------434
Fairmount ········---··-··-·····435
Claremont ·····-·-··---------436
Lancaste.r ···-····-····- ---····-437
Tyrian ···········-··-······--·····439
Standard ···············-··········· ·440

1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908.
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
19 13
1913
19 13
1913
1914

Lodge

Peet

Affil.

Peca

to
I
10
20

5

75

5

75
75

5

115

1

100

115
100
175
125
125
100
100
100
115
100
100
120
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50

100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
110
105
125
125
90
175
50
75
100
125
50
80
150
90
75
125
100
100
50
75
50
90
65
75
50
75
50
50
100
75
115
75
75

5
25
5
25
I

to
5

10
20
10

Mcmben

Due.

!nit.

PaHed

R..iaed

434
1007
807
356
268
206
329
1084
411
513
462
72
374
144
254
695
152
1072
492
474
439
475
674
585
459
187
352
HI
257

20
15
24
18
20
18
18
21
18
15
18
12
18
24
18
12
24
20
16
30
18
18
15
16
17
15
12
18
18
15
20
18
15
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15

2
18

7
3

3
19
7
3

6
27
i
2

1

4

7

2
9

18

286
220
425
533
471
136
478
255
326
579
660
123
121

5

556
135
396
119
389
812
388
567
590

25

227
787

5

10

3
25

5
10

5

3
25

10

10

214
121
873
598
180
402
197
123
211
391
187
586
346
283
155
691
442
275
228
152
380
248
199
321
98
158
120
159
327
214
563
244
312

15

18
18
15
18
15
20
21
18
18
18
40
12
25
20

22

15
18
18
18
18
24
20
26
18
12
15
18
21
18
12
18
20
18
20
18
33
16
20
18
18
18
18
20

16
8
15
1
1

19

2
20
6
24

1
1

3

2

21

10
7

11
5

3
19
9

1
19
10

3
3
7

5
2

5
i
15
6

3
3
8
6

7

7

2

5

12

6

7

11

13

4

7

2
2
9
9
2
3

3

4
10

9
2

9
5

2
9
7
3

2
18
8

Ii
8

3
18
8

3

2

2

6

6

3
8
8

5
8
8

2
5
1
3
9
8
2
5

1

1

6

6

t
9
4

2
8
5

2
8
6

IO

7

8

3
6

3
6
6

8

7

6
13

4
12
3
4
9

i
Ii
i
6
9

9

4
6
10
1
23
9
2
10
5

4

1

2

21

25
6
10

5

6
4
1
2
8

1
22

3

3

28

23

2

6

2
6

2
7
5
2
2
2
3
7
10

7

2

3
5

3
5

5
1
5
9

2
5
2
3

5

1

2
2

5

3

3

7

3
3
3

8

6
10
6

9

11
9
1
2

7

9
1
1
3
10
7

10

5

7
1
8
7
3
1

1

10

10

3
8
6
7

G. L.
Per Capita

Mcmben
Contrib.

1458.20
3414.00
2654.45
1212.15
860.60
701.60
1074.00
3571.50
1391.15
1606.40
1626.85
277.20
1215.35
470.00
886.20
2309.95
510.50
3500.15
1649.75
1677.15
H61.90
1594.80
2270.20
1957.25
1544.25
629.75
1180.50
1488.60
875.90
951.70
734.95
1450.30
1789.45
1541.30
440.85
1648.20
841.85
1096.40
1917.75
2214.90
339.35
597.35

120.00
655.00
245.00
105.00

635.00
305.00
625.00
165.00
35.00
60.00
35.00
860.00
225.00
140.00
550.00
235.00
130.00
105.00
355.00
235.00
245.00
140.00
70.00
95.00
365.00
315.00
70.00
105.00
540.00
355.00
105.00
70.00
225.00
35.00
105.00
315.00
430.00
95.00
175.00

1869.10
1462.15
1341.60
1351.60
1279.65
2733.50
1318.45
1911.65
1985.35
789.75
2639.05
714.75
1390.90
2918.05
1985.10
673.65
1384.30
655.60
507.70
728.05
1270.00
623.10
1985.85
1195.90
957.35
596.25
2313.10
1157.85
906.80
764.10
605.50
1255.20
847.45
731.65
1076.25
325.95
1542.20
416.95
607.65
1076.00
720.20
1907.35
1098 .85
1050.45

35.00
315.00
140.00
350.00
130.00
235.00
315.00
260.00
455.00
190.00
210.00
350.00
35.00
905.00
390.00
70.00
375.00
325.00
95.00
235.00
300.00
35.00
795.00
70.00
210.00
70.00
215.00
175.00
70.00
95.00
95.00
105.00
270.00
400.00
245.00
35.00
305.00
245.00
130.00
35.00
165.00
350.00
305.00
400.00

.:.
VI
.:.

190.00

~

VI
VI

Chutcr

De1ree
Feeo

Alril.
Feu

19li
1914
1911
1914
1914
1914
19M
19M
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

100
100
140
50
100
100
110

5
1
-

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
192 1
1921
1921
192 1
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922

100
75
75
100

No.

Iuued

Coronado ............._...........HI
Blackmer ... _.........- ............412
Schofield ............................443
Carpinteria ........................444
Wilshire .....- .................... H5
La Puente ___.............. - .. - H6
Torrance ............................ 447
Mount Diablo ....................448
Park ................. .....- .......... .449
Van Nuys ....................._ ..450
Montebello ........................451
San Pasqual ......................452
Crocker ................................ 454
Golden West.. ...................... 455
Ramona ..............................457
Henry S. Orme ..................458
Riverbank ..........................459
Mount Oso ........................460
Argonaut-Argonne ............ 46 1
Paul Revere ........................162
Morgan Hill .............- ......463
Alta Vista-Mount Vernon .. 464
Center ................................465
Libertas ..............................466
Culver City ........................467
Rockridge ..........................468
Yorba Linda ......................469
Lincoln ................................470
Delta ....................- ..........171
Maui ................_ ..._..____ 472
Blythe ...........- ................... 473
America ...............- ............475
Coachella ............................476
Temblor ..............................177
Thousand Oaks ...- .........478
479
Golden Rule -·
Fellowship .........- ...........480
Mt. Davidson .....- ............481
Clarence F. Smith.............. 482
Bell ......................................483
Albert Pike ...._ _ _ _484
Chowchilla -------485

Lod11c

--

75

100
125
100
115
100
75
100
125
75
80
115
100

75

75
80
100
100
115
100
100
100
50
75
115

75

50

75

100
100
100
115
100
100
75

10
10

-

10
10

-

1
10
10
l
10

-

--

5
5

-

-

5

1
10

-

-10

Membere

Dueo

lnit.

Paned

Railed

341
970
352
153
399
280
637
501
347
1175
667
499
470
458
495
490
142
327
569
520

15
15
20
24
18
20
15
20
24
15
16
22
12
18
18
18
15
18
18
18
25
18
20
22
20
21
15
21
15
16
20
18
30
15
21
15
21
21
20
18
18
16

3

2
3
15

4
6
22
4
3
9

147
367
466
686
425
350
184
347
463
175
198
351
290
11 9
557

708

267
328
263
733
194
176

-

15
5
5
12
19
15
9

13
10
2

7

5

3
9
15
17
12
17
6
5
5

11

13

3
1
4
I
4

3
2
5
2
6

4

5
15
7
2
13
10
3
7
11
1
9
3
5
8

-

-

1

2
6
9

8

13

11

9
4

9
3

H

11

1
9
4
4
15

1
10
3
4
16

-

1
1

1

10

-

3
7
11
9
I
12

1

-

7
6
6
4
6
3
2
4
3
6

7

4

-

H

12
9
17

10

-

3

6
7

-

1
1
8

6

G. L,
Pu Capita

Members

1141.30
3258.50
1331.05
516.50
1317.50
1003.00
2288.45
1727.25
1257.35
3912.90
2234.00
1637.75
1557.65
1572.25
1664.80
1580.15
474.00
1105.10
1914.30
181 1.25
489.10
1368.40
1569.05
2313.00
1H5.95
1148.00
638.35
1183.05
1568.70
596.90
698.95
1165.45
969.35
371.80
1845:45
2397.40
884.40
1088.40
905.65
2429.95
649.90
456.25

130.00

Contrib.

~

VI

0\

-

575.00
200.00
175.00
455.00
665.00
550.00
365.00
580.00
375.00
95.00
245.00
140.00
435.00
105.00
60.00
M0.00
70.00
165.00
25.00
140.00
200.00
575.00
345.00
70.00
480.00
350.00
205.00
245.00
490.00
35.00
340.00
105.00
175.00
280.00
25.00
35.00
35.00
385.00

-

35.00

......._

Caledonia -----------486
Vallejo ·--------------------+87
Patterson ·-·--------...........488
East Bay ..... __________..489
490
- -·---·
Corcoran
__ 491
______
W oodstock--------

Garvanza ...................- ......i 92
Atascadero .........- ...........493
Acom ..................................494
Lebanon ..............................495
Fremont .............................. 497
Stockton ...............- .......... 498
Capital City ...................... 499
Roosevelt ........................... .500
Westwood ..........................501
Harbor ................................502
Point ................................... .503
Seaside ................. -............. 504
Silver Cord ........................505
Mount Olive ......................506
El Segundo ........................507
Joppa ..................................508
Benjamin Franklin ............509
Cupertino ...............- ..........510
Sunnyvale _ _____.............511
Palms .........- .......- ..........5 12
Cahuenga ......................... .513
Vermont Square -------... - .515
Tah ........._______.......... .516
La Jolla _____........... .518
Euclid ..................- ...........519
Ionic ................................... .520
Piedmont ............................521
Belvedere-Sunrise ............. .522
Bellflower ............................523
Catalina Island .................. 524
Geor~ Washington ..........525
Bay ity ............................526
Covenant ..... _ ....................527
Beverly Hills ......................528
Loyalty ..............................529
Sun Garden ........................530
Alexandria ..........................531
Smyrna -------------·----····--532

75
75
75

75

80
100
100
80
100
100
80
75
!05
125
105
125
100
50
150

75

150
125
100
100
50
115
100
215
100

75

125
135
100
100
100
125
150
80
75

75

-

10

-

1
-

-

1

10

-10
15
39

-

1
5
15

-

25
10

-

10
10

-

10
25
5

-

5

553
367
177
295
126
380
259
147
562
345
465
185
594
177
21 8
487
342
i90
599
829
470
95
253
257
446
414
496
356
271
333
315
1310
474
393
615
119
347
387
218
481
764
502
165
225

18
16
18
38
18
18
18
16
24
24
18
18
15
15
18
20
21
20
20
20
18
15
18
15
36
21
20
15
20
15
22
25
24
18
21

20
18
21
18
15
18
15

20
15

13
9
6
5

-

5
3
2
4
7
3
6
2
1
7
4
5

11
9
3
1
1
4
2
4
4
2
3

-

5
1
1
3
8
3

11

11

24
7
1
2
4
7
3

17
9

6
2

8
3

l

30
4
3
18
3
7
I
4

6
16
11
1
3

1
5

5

16

6
2
I
8
3
3
32
4
3
15
4
6
1
4

1
19

-

8
i

10
10

5

-

1
2
5
3
4
4
1
3
1
4
1

2
7
4
10
12
10
2
5
8
15
5
2
1
7
2
3
29
4
4
13
3
6
5
3

1
22

6
1
8

1876.50
1250.75
813.60
1136.75
i25.10
1278.45
855.55
489.05
1861.20
1145.35
1554.00
6 10.35
1964.70
596.95
687.25
1640.10
1154.65
1646.80
2208.65
2749.75
1605.40
337.15
849.50
846.25
1471.80
1347.30
1688.05
11 86.55
894.00
1158.55
1015.35
4800.90
1589.85
1296.40
2069.40
408.65
1206.40
1328.45
752.85
1569.IO
2484.60
1681.45
554.75
762.05

605.00
390.00
210.00
175.00

-

250.00
105.00
70.00
140.00

-

245.00
140.00
210.00
70.00
3 5.00
270.00
140.00
225.00
520.00
915.00
320.00
35.00
70.00
140.00
280.00
105.00
260.00
70.00
280.00
180.00
35.00
1200.00
140.00
105.00
630.00
105.00
245.00
60.00
165.00
235.00
720.00
435.00
35.00
130.00

.....
Vt
"'-l

No.

Charter
haued

Degree
Fees

Affil.
Pee.

Azure ······-·························533
Forest Hill ···········-··-··-····.534
Alexander Hamilton ..........535
Utopia ................................537
Ascot ................................. .538
Queen Beach .................•....540
Henry Morse Stephens......541
North Hollywood ..............542
Signal ..................................543
Glendale ·················-··········.544
Veritas-Jonathan ..............545
San Gabriel ............·-··- ····.546
Arcadia ·····---·······-········5 47
Triangle ·············--············.548
[ustice ............................._.549
akeshore ..........................551
Semper Virens ................. .552
Educator ·······-··········-·······554
White Pine ........................555
Fairfax ···············-············· ·556
Hermosa ·············-············.557
Point Firmin ......................558
Craftsmen ···················-····559
Plymouth ·····················- ---560
East San Diego..................561
Pyramid ..............................562
South Park ........................563
Foothill ..............................564
West Adams ...................... 565
James A. Garlleld .........- ..-.566
Sea rchlight ........................567
Park Bouleva rd ................. .568
Chateau Thierry ·········-····.569
Military Service ................570
Francis K. Shattuck............571
James Madison ···········-····572
S. W. HacketL.-...............574
Fort Crook ···········-··········575
El Caj on Valley............... .576
Sunnyside ..........................577
Progressive ··················-··.578
Warren G . Harding ......-579

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924

125
100
100
75
100
100
75
125
100
100
JOO
125
100
115
100
100
50
80
55
100
JOO
125
100
90
75

-lO

100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100
75
100
130
100
100
125
100
125

Santa Marla ·········-······-··.580
Security ·-·············-··········5 81
Rialto ··-·················-····-·· ··582
Wasco ................................583
Harding ............................. .58'1
Manchester ........................ 585
Garden Grove ···-····-······ .. .586
VaJley Forge ....................587
El Sereno ........................... .588
Kauai ···-- ··-·················-······589
Compass ............................590
Escalon ..............................59 I
Tujunga ............................. .592
All States ·····-··--··············.593
Service ................................594
Alexander Graham Bell....595
Guardian ........................... .596
Pearl H arbor ·······-·········... .598
Carmelita ·········-·-·············.599
Lynwood ·········-····--·········600
Grizzly ·····-············-···········601
Melrose ···-······-·················602
Dimond ·········-··--·············603
Jubllee ·············-·················604
Glassell Park ·········--·········605
Sojourner ............................607
Granada ·········--················· 608
Provident ............................609
Elmhurst ···············-······-···610
Canoga ···--····-······-·········61 1
Temple City ···-·-·······-·····612
Three Pillars ......................6 I 3
Larchmont .......................... 614
Hemet .................................. 615
R. E. Dolley........................616
Big Bear ···-··-···················617
Southland .......................... 618
Neptune ..............................619
Point Loma ........................620
The Gardens ......................621
Atwater ····-······-······-··-·6 22
Menorah -·-····-····-······--623
Fortitude ·····················-·····624
Angeles Mesa ....................625

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1921
1924
1924
192i
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
J925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

80
100
115
115
115
125
120
100
125
75
115
50
125
100
100
115
JOO
J50
J J5
125
50
90
100
75
75
115
100
100
100
135
100
JOO
JOO
90
100
75
100
125
120
100
75
J75
JOO
125

Lod~e

)()()

5

--

5
5

-

25

-

-JO
5

-2
-

--

-5

5
75
-

-

10
10
5

-

-

5
10
20
JO
10

--

5

-5
-

1

10
-

-5
-

-.

-

-

10

-

5
I

--

--

JO
15

-10
5

-

-5

-

-25
5
5

Memben

Duca

lnit.

421
180
249
487
298
185
258
954
507
749
283
564
560
327
353
242
319
351
97
490
115
300
297
315
891
280
353
949
282
216
380
366
309
269
195
284
570
222
621
348
440
652

21
24
20
20
18
18
16
20
18
18
18
15
50
20
18
21
18
15
12
24
16
22
16
18
16
20
18
18
20
22
20
18
20
21
18
18
15
15
20
15
15
15

8
3
2
2
2
10

141
386
335
311
293
277
501
394
380
110
340
160
355
533
865
243
919
607
327
557
115
256
232
429
382
300
698
496
247
482
495
i39
336
358
235
176
353
301
675
493
315
1249
211
618

15
23
20
18
18
20
15
18
18
15
18
18
18
18
16
18
15
15
20
18
J5
20
18
20
18
30
21
18
20
18
17
18
18
18
20

20
21
20
18
J8
15
16
24
15

-

8
i
15
5
7
12
13
5
3
i
3
2
8
9
5

-

3
20
4
3
13
1
1
2
1
7
3
3
i
7

-

16

-

3
11

i
7
3
2
6
3
14

-

6
2
5
3
6
9
H
3
H
17
5
9
1
8
1
17
9
i
9
8
3
4
2
5
1

10
6
7
7
9
7
7
3
23
3
1

Pa ..ed

Raiaed

7

7
1
1
1
1
5

-

2
1
2
6

8
i
11
i
i
13
11
i
3
2
3
3
6
10
3
1
1
21
2
4
15
2
2
4

-

-8

5
9

-

3
18
9
5
3
3
3
3
i
9
2
1
3
22
2
6
9
4
1
6
I

5
4
1
4
5
1
13
1
4
11

3
3
2
I
9
4
13
1
5
H

5

5
5
9
1
10
2
14
3
2

7
6

-

11

3
11
3
3

-

6
3
10
10
9
i
J8

14

2
13

-

8
2
13
9
6
6
8
3
7
i
4
1
8
6
7
5
3
8
5
4
27

1
1

-

3
5
6
12
7
5
15
13
4
13

-5

2
12
9
3
3
JO
3
8
5
3
2
5
5
6
3
5
6
3
3
26
3

-

G. L.
Per Capita

Members
Contrib,

1412.30
603.65
825.75
1558.10
986.55
620.65
847.55
3179.70
1671.25
2497.25
936.95
1953.35
1888.85
1093.45
1166.40
813.00
1060.90
1168.JO
402.95
1656.15
1346.40
998.25
976.85
1156.05
3031.45
939.30
1155.35
3186.00
944.65
759.25
1328.20
1263. IO
J075. IO
907.80
744.15
950.35
1917.10
742.00
2115.65
1151.05
1462.55
2245.20

330.00
105.00
70.00
70.00
95.00
400.00

51 l.35
1313.60
1126.85
1038.15
1078.55
1037.60
1738.95
1305.80
1250.50
370.50
1146.30
547.00
1181.10
1828. IO
2914.30
8-i-i.35
3075.40
2105.75
J093.05
1887.55
411.20
831.70
758.75
1462.40
1251.60
1009.50
2389.45
1670.85
836.45
J613.60
1659.20
1475.95
1154.55
1202.20
987.45
634.60
1174.10
1015.30
2360.45
1606.25
1194.05
4213.25
693.75
2120:45

~

Vl
00

-

280.00
140.00
650.00
175.00
270.00
420.00
480.00
175.00
105.00
110.00
J05.00
70.00
305.00
340.00
175.00

-

105.00
775.00
140.00
105.00
480.00
140.00
35.00
70.00
35.00
245.00
130.00
105.00
140.00
320.00

-

660.00

--

130.00
435.00

2\5.00
245.00
130.00
70.00
210.00
105.00
590.00

--

210.00
95.00
175.00
J05.00
235.00
340.00
515.00
130.00
490.00
595.00
175.00
315.00
35.00
330.00
60.00
670.00
315.00
165.00
315.00
280.00
105.00
140.00
95.00
175.00
35.00
375.00
210.00
320.00
245.00
315.00
270.00
245.00
J05.00
1005.00
105.00
85.00

~

Vl

\0

No.

Charier
U.ued

Decree
Peu

Afil.
Pcu

Chula Vista ........................626
Lamanda Park ··-·-········-627
Truth ·-----········-······-628
Fairview ····-···· .................629
Ingleside ··················-·-··-·630
Benevolence .......·-·-·-·····631
Normal Heights ---·····-··632
Poinsettia ···--···-··---· ..........633
Victorville ............... ·-····-··63-t
Riverside ............................635
John Marshall ....................636
Palisades ............................ 637
Composite ·················-·······639
tmes A. Foshay ................6-tl
a Cumbre ........................6-+2
Alta Loma ..........................643
Lomita ................................6-ti
A. F. E. lrwin.................... 645
Metropolitan ...................- .646
Hawthorne .....................-.647
Damascus ·····················- ···648
Florence ... ·-·················--···649
La Brea ...............- .............650
Menlo Park ................_..._.651
Crescenta Valley ...._ __652
Fontana __............·-----·--·653
J.irdan ...................._·--·-····65-t
onte Vista ···········--·-····655
C itro] ..................................656
John D . Spreckels ..............657
Livingston ·····-····-------·658
La Habra ··········-·····---·-···659
Baldwin Park ............ - ... 660
Malta ............................._...661
Henry Knox ...............- ..... 662
OJ al .................................... 663
Kaweah .............................. 665
Reseda .......................... - ... 666
Meridian ............................667
San Gorgonio ···········-·······668
John P. Jarman....................669
Greenleaf --·---------·-······---670

1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
J927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928

125
115
140
100
90
100
105
100
90
75
100
100
175
JOO
75
100
125
125
100
100
75
J25
75
J25
125
125
100
125
90
1J5
90
125
115

1
20

120
100
75
100
100

-

San Clemente ---·········-··· .. 671
Laguna Beach ···········-·· ..... 672
Far West ....._______....... 673
Los Cerritos ---··-··········· ..674
Modesto ..............................675
W illow Glen ......................676
Liberal Arts ·-·······--······...677
Altadena ........ _ ................. 678
Canby Cross ......................679
Ca rmel ................................ 680
Dos Pa los ..........................68 1
Barstow ..............................682
Redwood Empire ..............683
Trona ..................................684
San Marino ........................685
Albany ................................686
Vista ..................................687
Oildale ................................688
Pohona ................................689
San Carlos ........................ 690
Indian Wells Valley ..........691
Trnvelers .................. - ........692
Palm Springs ...................... 693
San Antonio ------··-···-.......694
Meudell ····-···-··-········.....695
Crossroads ........................696
Saint E lmo _.......................697
W m. D. Stephens-............. 698
Bixby Knolls ............-.........699
Ponderosa ...............- ........700
Santa Ynez Valley............701
Rosemead ..........................702
Westchester ·······-··-········.703
El Cerrito ......................... .705
Hunters Point Naval......... 706
Lake T ahoe ·········-·············707
Seafa ring .......................- ... 708
,L orenzo .............................. 709
Anacapa ............................710
Rim of the Worlcl....... - .... .711
Los Altos ...- .......................712
Castro Valley ·--···············713
Blue Lakes ..........................714
Magnolla Park --···-··---·715

1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951

100
100
75
175
75
115
125
115
65
75
JOO
JOO
100
75
100
75
75
100
50
100
115
JOO
100
100
J15
115
100
125
100
80
75
100
125
75
100
75
100
100
100
75
100
100
100
125

-

Lod1e

r-o

75

125
105
50

I

10

-

3

5
10
10

-

-5

-

-

-

-

5
5

3

-

-

1
10
25

1
10

-

10
10

1
-

-l

-5·
10

-

--

10
5

-

10
10

-

1

-

1

10
l

-

-

5

5

5
-

Memben

Duu

!nit .

PaNCd

PJi1<d

73-t
296
260
268
183
2-tO
820
739
319
6-+2
286
395

15
20
26
21
20
18
15
18
20
18
15
18
15
20
2-t
18
20
18
15

18
1
9
3
3
2
16
12
10
i
17
2
8
3
3
3
i
i
3
13
11
2
3
12
12

13
2
8
2
1
2
16
3

12
3
9
2

755

J9i
308
356
376
247
17-t
552
732
361
237
336
625
369
374
819
262
633
193
330
371
244
370
184
134
904
510
256
326
873

18
25
25
20
20
18
18
20
20
18
20
20
15
18
25
18
21
20
24
18
15

179
222
320
530
549
389
i27
i69
123
252
159
499
129
165
479
210
367
278
89
458
454
203
313
284
231
335
299
J96
41 9
388
158
256
457
224
215
J13
564
384
282
210
251
354
241
360

20
18
20
18
12
18
20
18
20
20
J8
24
18
18
2-t
18
20
25
12
24
21
15
20
20
25
18
18
20
20
25
24
18
30
15
21
18
16
18
18
20
20
18
2-t
21

25
IS

5
5
13

4
12
i
12

14
3
1
4
2
29
9

7
5

13

1
i
5
8
11
9
11
3
2
3

-

-

9
9
4
6

14
4
2
8

6
2
9
5
5
3
5
9
13
9
1
7
8
7
3
1
12
14
10
1
7
11
8
10

5

5
11
3
9
1
3
2
3

5

1
14
9
3
2

-

6
H
3

6
5
12
6
10

-

3
3
3
7

-

10

9
4
4
6
7
8
2

to

7
6
2
15
2
9

5

13
12
2
2
2
l
20
7
7
3
19

3
5
2
8
11

9
9

5

3
4
l
16
9
3
7
1
9
4
2
9
6
3
9
7

5
4
6

5
9
8
1
7
9
7
3
1
13

14
6
4
7

9
5
9

H

4
9
6
14
11
1

-

2
1
15
11
7
7
17

5
6
5
7
13
10
7
5
1
5

l
19
9

5

8
2
10
4
1
7
8
2
6
8
5
4
4
i
9
9
1
7
10
7

5

J
12
13
6
4
7
7

5

12

G. L.
Per Capita

Memben
Conttib.

2-+91.85
994.25
893.65
103-t.80
613.70
923.95
27-tt.25
2540.25
1086.30
2147.95
1198.05
1314.15
2866.15
717.20
1024.05
1180.50
1242.80
836.75
586.90
J856.05
2-tl0.85
1204.95
796.25
1166.90
2092.95
1245.10
1235.10
2735.40
88 1.00
2123.75
658.20
1084.20
1269.80
918.35
1225.75
611.00
456.20
3212.35
1708.70
861.85
1100.-tO

830.00
85.00
340.00
130.00
105.00
120.00
785.00
495.00
375.00
165.00
655.00
70.00
330.00
105.00
155.00
130.00
165.00
li0.00
105.00
455.00
410.00
70.00
105.00
445.00
495.00
175.00
175.00
i55.00
140.00
470.00
165.00
420.00
515.00
105.00
60.00
190.00
70.00
1175.00
315.00
270.00
225.00

3013.45

591.90
862.00
1073.95
1971.75
1860.75
1311.05
1444.05
1620.70
488.05
979.50
534.65
J705.60
i55.80
564.75
1612.25
703.15
1305.70
926.55
303.J5
1558.30
152750
687.05
1125.80
954.65
848.80
1144.85
1031.60
699.60
1459.65
1347.40
518.90
87 1.90
1557.95
746.40
739.50
381.55
1951.35
1307.30
1036.70
709.15
893.50
J212.90
885.35
1237.00

~

°'
0

515.00

110.00
265.00
200.00
380.00
il0.00
315.00
385.00
180.00
70.00
130.00

-

315.00
315.00
140.00
310.00

--

590.00
140.00
70.00
330.00
235.00
70.00
365.00
175.00
175.00
215.00
200.00
365.00
480.00
31 5.00
85.00
245.00
280.00
295.00
130.00
60.00
505.00
515.00
375.00
60.00
305.00
410.00
305.00
400.00

.a.
0\
.....

No.

Charter
IHued

Degree
Fees

Belmont Shore ..................716
Wayfarer ···············-·········717
San Lorenzo Valley..........7 18
Estero -----········----------······.719
Mineral King ··-------·-·········720
Home ···-············-·-···········72 I
George E. Tutt...- ............. 722
Acalanes ......................... _.723
San Ramon Valley............ 724
Saint John 's ·········---·········725
Yucaipa ··········--··----··-·······726
Verdugo Hills .................... 727
Lakewood ··--····--·····-········728
Centennial ·················-·-·····729
Polaris ·····················-·········730
Two Rivers ........................ 731
San Juan ···············-··········.732
Golden Empire ................. .733
Kit Carson ·····------··-··········.734
Oasis of Mara•.- ................ 735
Lemon Grove ·····-·············736
H illsborough ·····-··············.737
Arvin ..................................738
La Canada ·········-····-·-······.739
O pportunity ...................... 740
T y re ................................... .741
Morningside Park ..............742
Oakwood ........................... .743
San Leandro ......................714
Peninsula ·················-········.745
Soquel ···-···················-······.746
Claude H . Morrison. .........7'17
Highland ·················-·········748
Merced ·························-····.749
Mother Colony ................. .750
Hamilton ............................751
Luther Burbank ................752
Lawndale ............................ 753
San Pablo ......................... .754
Golden Bowl ......................755
Clayton Valley .................. 756
Channel ·········-·--·-··---···.757

1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
195i
195i
1954
1954
1954
1954
195i
195i
IQ54
1954
1954
19'i5
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956

125
100
100

Lodge

75

75
165
100

75

75
75
75
100
140
125
JOO
100
JOO
90
100
90
115
100
100
125
115
125
115
100
100
100
80
115
75
90
105
100
75
100

75
100

75
80

Mil.
Pea

-

1
10
10
-

10
10

IO

-

-

IO
IO

-

-

I

-

-

-

5
5

-

-

G. L.

Membcn

D uct

loit.

PaS1ed

391
198
127
170
137
685
205
236
174
287
265
Iii
282
166
2H
204
258
18 1
212
143
512
192
129
178
211
295
178
I05
235
180
195
163
205
189
194
166
242
242
148
188
339
136

16
20
16
24
20

12
6
4
5
4
19
10
11

9

25

18
20
18
2i
15
20
25
21
20
16
18
18
20
20
20

2i
20
24
18
25
20
20
20
18
15
18
16
15
18
30
20
20
20
15
24
15

4
3
4
6
32
6
8
6
10
1
5
4
3
H
4
6
4

7
8
1

5
6
5
11
12
5
6
5

9
7
3
4

7

5
3
2
6
11

5
12
4
2
4
6
6
2

7

7
2
16

7

H5.00
210.00
140.00
225.00
165.00
815.00
350.00
410.00
2i5 .00
305.00
120.00
175.00
210.00
175.00
41 0.00
420.00
175.00
210.00
175.00
200.00
465.00
295.00
105.00
140.00
245.00
200.00
105.00
120.00
210 .00
385.00
320.00
280.00
70.00
385.00
375.00
270.00
410.00
270.00
105.00
165.00
385.00
245.00

784.45
843.10
549.95
727.20
583.40
715.00
675.25
527.20
529.25
5Rl.20
11 37.60
975.55
556.i O
892.30
279.65
893.15
741.15
723.85
864.20
214.25
781.00
432.50
565.60
455.90
506.10
297.45
677.20
6 11.90
450.50
499.00
384.85
1080.75
771.70
566.60
288.90
396.50

225.00
210.00
:m5.oo
260.00
455.00
250.00
200.00
140.00
175.00
70.00

10
2
1
10
13

5
7
5

8
8
3
14
6
6
9

3
3
11

1359.50
706.95
503.45
702.45
468.25
2424.35
773.05
817.25
636.90
986.45
875.00
395.90
957.30
566. 10
753.90
696.70
874.60
831.35
724.85
489.70
17i8.20
657.20
439.15
742.60
999.00
1034.25
669.95
354.75
805.90
564.00
669.90
569.05
686.70
661.10
666.55
573.75
838.70
832.70
51 0.80
635.45
1154.20
i73.60

5
7

6

7

7

7

7

8
2
11
10
7
11

M ember•
Contrib.

11
6
7
2
4
6
2
12
4
6
5
8
4
12
3
2

-

7

Per Capita

2
1
4
6
32

5

5

Raiocd

13
4
8
8
8
5
4
15
6

5

-.
West Covina ········--······.758
El Rancho ···--··········- ········.759
Lakeside ..............................760
Josiah W. Roller ..·--··--·-···76 1
Coastside ·······················-··762
Arabic ···············--·- ··-······.763
Heritage ············--···············764
D ana R. W eller..................765
James H . Kew....................766
Wm. Rhod es Hervey....... .76 7
Zenith ····--···························768
Palmdale .........................-.769
Lake Chabot ...................... 770
Mission Bay ...................... 77 1
Avenal ................................772
Tejon ..................................773
Waikiki ..............................774
San Oieguito ......................775
East Whittier ...............- ...776
Pinnacle ..............................777
La Mirada .......................... 778
Five Points ........................ 779
Riviera ................................780
Rolling Hills ............... - .....781
Silverado ........................... .782
Mojave ..............................783
Leland Stanford ................784
Paramount ·····-················...785
Rio Linda ........................... .786
Westminster ......................787
Sierra ···-·······················-·····788
Oak Plains ........................789
Granada Hills .................. ..790
Gen. H enry H . Amold ......79 1
Millbrae ·-·-·················--·····792
Maya ·················-····--··-··-···793
Mt. Wilson .··········-········-·.794
American River ............... .795
Golden Valley ................. .796
T ila Pass ............................797
Ashland .............................. 798
C lairemont M esa ·········-····.799
Rio Hondo ---······------ -···-·800
Koola u ·····-·····-···-- ···---··--··801

~

°'
N

-

1956
1956

1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960

115
100
100
100
100
140
125
105
11 5
125
125
115
100
115
100
100
175
90
100
90
100
125
125
125
125

75
JOO
125
100
100

75

100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
11 5
100
JOO
125
175

-

10

-

5
10

-

5
5
10

10
-

10

...,.
10
5

--

55

10

-

10

-

-

JO
1

5
10

-

-

231
247
157
216
167
200
197
155
155
152
3 16
274
167
260
79
250
209
212
252

5
7

10
10
25

2
-

221
130
158
135
146
88
192
155
130
140
11 3
305
203
156

74

Ill

158
176
185
136
137
122
130
113

24
21
21
18
15
15
20
16
15

5
6
8
6
13
5
5
4

15

2
15
9
4
8

20
20
18
18
20
18
25
20
20
20
24
20
20
15
JS
20
JS
18
20
24
18
18
20
15
2i
18
15
15
20
20
18
18
18
20

5

7

13
14

7

8
1
11
6
2

I
9
3
14
9
4
13
2
20
14
7
4
II
2
3
10
3

8
6
6
3

8
5
6
5
11
8
7
6
4

15
10
1
10
3
7
12
5
7
3
13

8
3
3
6
J
11
8
6
9
5
16

11
6
1
9

11
8
10
6
10
7
10
8
1

-

ii
7
2
10

5
14
15

5
5
1
20
8
3
3

2
2
9
9
5
8
6
23
10
6
1
8

2

1

559.30

6
12
1
6
4

9
12
2

604.25
698.75
458.25
630.95
421.70
450.50
393.55

5
i

8
3
4
8

575.00

390.00
140.00
305.00
270.00
480.00
490.00
270.00
355.00
60.00
385.00
235.00
95.00
35.00
365.00
155.00
5 15.00
350.00
140.00
480.00
70.00
750.00
590.00
270.00
140.00
385.00
95.00
105.00
375.00
105.00
280.00
210.00
210.00
105.00

~

°'
l.H

464

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

I

11

I

I

11

I

EXTINCT LODGES. INCLUDING CONSOLIDATI ONS

II
"'~ "'M\ON .......

O() ....... l"')ll"\NNO\MO\ll"I

.....

0..

......

;:!:
I 0\1"') ....... ...,_°'"'\0N
.......
~

I I

....

..."'
·all"l\O\O_O'l...._\O .... \OO-oo"'""'N\0 ....... 0\"'\0NM ....... ..., \0
~ -C

....,.

-

N

--

-

-

!!

I I

"" §
"Cl

ooo"'o \0
O"'\Oll"l"'OoNOOll"l\O ll"\OooooV<oN\Oll"lg
-NNN N
Q NN--NNNN----N--NN___

Cl

:

..., "'

I I

- "Cl°'
j

~~ I J I I I I 8 I 12 I IS l I ~2 I - I I 8 1.,., I

t

..8.

°' ...
°' ~
I/"\

465

"'

1::
..

O>

"'

"Cl

2 Western Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolidated with Clinton No. 119, as Westtern Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
4 Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings No. 4.
Jennings, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.
6 Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.
7 Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
No. 7, Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco. Charter revoked, May 13, 1859.
8 Tuolumne, Sonora, 1850. Consolidated with Mount Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with Columbia No. 28, as Sonora
No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with George Washington No. 62, as
Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
9 Marysville, Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec. 1874.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian
No. 9, June 16, 1916.
11 Williamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon,
November 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation 1851, Charter never issued.
13 Nevada, Nevada City, 1851. Consolidated with Quitman No. 88, and
Manzanita No. 102, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
15 La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.
16 Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolidated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eure ka
No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
Pacific, Valparaiso, Chile, Dispensation 1853, Charter never issued.
25 Georgetown, Georgetown, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as
Georgetown No. 25, December 1898.
26 El Dorado, Pla.cerville, 1853. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 151, as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Mt. Zion No. 114, as Palmyra
No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra
No. 26, Mar. 29, 1916.
Palmyra, Placerville. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26, Oct. 10, 1929.
28 Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
29 Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
30 Golden Gate, San Francisco, 1853. Consolidated with Speranza Italiana
No. 219, as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966.
31 Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
as Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
34 Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
36 Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
37 St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Siskiyou No. 105, as St.
John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
St. John's, Yreka. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37,
Dec. 8, 1924.
39 Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
47 Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
48 Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
49 Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.

466

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

50 Forbestown, Forbestown, 1854. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as
Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.
52 Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered N()vember 1864.
53 Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
54 Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
59 Gravel Range, Camptonville, 1855. Consolidated with Forest No. 66, as
Gravel Range No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
62 George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
63 Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
64 Natoma. Folsom, 1855. Consolidated with Latrobe No. 189, as Natoma
No. 64, December 1884.
66 Forest, Allegheny, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, as
Gravel Range No. 59, Sept. 27, 1955.
67 Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
69 Independent Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian
No. 69, May 2, 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, December 1874.
71 Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolida~ed with Ione No. 80, as Ione
No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.
72 E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
73 Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
74 Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
75 Mountain Forest, Mountain Forest, 1855. Charter surrendered May 1870.
77 P etaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180 as Petaluma No. 180, December 1898.
78 Calaveras, San Andreas, 1855. Consolidated with Mokelumne No. 31, as
Calaveras No. 78, Oct. 13, 1883.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Campo Seco No. 100, as
Calaveras No. 78, October 1898.
Calaveras, S an Andreas. Consolidated with Mokelumne Hill No. 298, as
Calaveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
80 Ione, Ione, 1856. Consolidated with Nebraska No. 71, as Ione No. 80,
Oct. 15, 1887.
82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, as
Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2, 1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115. as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's, Fiddletown. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Rowland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, as Gibsonville No. 158, November 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman No. 88, May 8
1856.
'
Quitman, North Bloomfield. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
91 North Star, Fort Jones, 1856. Consolidated with Owen No. 108, as North
Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, Mar. 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name changed to
St. Helena No. 93, Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Yreka, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard
No. 37, Dec. 8, 1924.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

97

467

Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as
Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
Jefferson, La Porte, Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, as Forbestown No. 50, July 19, 1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Moved to Hornitos and name changed to
Hornitos No. 98, May 1860.
99 La Gran ge, Merced, 1856. Consolidated with Yosemite No. 133, as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as
Calaveras No. 78, October 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as
Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as St.
Joh n's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as
Tuolumne No. 8, December 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated w ith North Star No. 91, as North
Star No. 91, Oct. 15, 1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as P almyra No. 26, Oct. 11, 1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No.
85, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western S tar No. 2, as Western
Star No. 2, Oct. 15, 1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Napa City, Napa, Dispensation 1859, Charter never issued.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
131 Carpenter, Wood's Ferry, Dispensation 1858, was ch artered in 1859 as
Woodbridge No. 131 , the name of the location of the Lodge llaving been
changed to Woodbridge.
132 Sincerity, Greenville, 1859. Consolidat ed with Greenville No. 249, as
Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, as
Yosemi te No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
Doric, North Fork, Dispensation 1861, Charter never issued.
148 San Luis Obispo, San L uis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.
151 Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
152 Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
153 Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrender ed Oct. 13, 1864.
154 Carson, Carson City, Nevada Territory, 1862. Tr ansferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, J an 16, 1865.
155 Mount Carmel, R ed Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
156 Woodland, Woodland, 1863. Consolidat ed with Tyrian No. 284, as Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
157 Washoe, Washoe City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to J urisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.

468

469

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

158 Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as
Jefferson No. 97, Oct. 15, 1908.
159 Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
160 Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, as
Georgetown No. 25, December 1898.
162 Virginia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to
Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16. 1865.
163 Silver City, Silver City, Nevada T erritor y, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville, Dispensation 1864, Charter never issued.
165 Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdict ion of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
170 Esmeralda, Aurora, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16. 1865.
171 Escurial, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
172 Lander, Austin, Nevada Territory, 1834. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch No. 175, Oct. 12,
1865.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Arizona Territory, 1866. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Arizona, Mar. 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, P etaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, December 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle No. 182, Oct. 16,
1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne, Oct. 10, 1867.
189 Latrobe. Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, as Natoma
No. 64, Oct. 17, 1884.
197 Paradise , Hayward, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin, Dispensation 1870, Charter never issued.
205 Newville..:.. Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet
No. 205, vet. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bode ga, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18,
1881.
219 Speranza Italiana, San Francisco, 1872. Consolidated with Golden Gate
No. 30, as Golden Gate Speranza No. 30, July 1, 1966.
221 Inyo, Independence, 1872. Consolidated with Waucoba No. 413, as Inyo
No. 221, Jan. 10, 1945.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Moved to San Mateo and name
changed to San Mateo No. 226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Somersiiille, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
230 North Butte, Gridley, 1873. Consolidated with Emmanuel No. 318, as
North Butte No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
235 Surprise Valley, Cedarville, 1874. Consolidated with North East No.
266, as Surprise Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
239 P escadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
240 Equality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132 as
'
Sincerity No. 132, Oct. 16, 1896.
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
252 Bodie1 Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, as Winneduman No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.

254 Reading, Reading, 1879. Consolidated with Kennett No. 456, as Reading
No. 254, Dec. 19, 1925.
255 Welcome, Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Riverdale No. 496, as Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona Territory, 1879. Transferred t o Jurisdiction
of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Arizona Territory, Dispensation 1881, Transferred
to Jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
260 King Solomon's, San Francisco, 1880. Consolidated with Seaport No.
550, as King Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
263 T ucson , Tucson, Arizona Territory, 1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Arizona, March 25, 1882.
264 Hesperian_. Santa Maria, 1882. Consolidated with Santa Maria No. 340,
as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
266 North East, Fort Bidwell, 1882. Consolidated with Surprise Valley No.
235, as Surprise Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.
:.!70 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
277 Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated with Fowler No. 398, as Selma No.
277, Oct. 14, 1915.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, as Woodland No. 156, Oct. 11, 1911.
285 San Miguel, San Miguel, 1887. Consolidated with P aso Robles No. 286,
as Paso Robles No. 286, Dec. l, 1968.
286 Paso Robles, Paso Robles, 1887. Consolidated with San Miguel No. 285,
as Paso Robles No. 286, Dec. 1, 1968.
287 Winnedumah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No. 252, as Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20, 1918.
290 Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, Oct. 12,
.
l~~
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, as Caleveras No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 Hueneme Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, as Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
318 Emmanuel, Biggs, 1893. Consolidated with North Butte No. 230, as
North Butte No. 230, Oct. 8, 1968.
339 Esperanza, Fullerton, 1900. Name changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13,
1904.
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264,
as Hesperian No. 264, Oct. 13, 1910.
341 Oxnard, Oxnard, 1901. Consolidated with Hueneme No. 311, as Oxnard
No. 341, Oct. 16, 1902.
342 Mnnila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to J urisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
360 San Francisco, San Francisco, 1904. Consolidated with Victory No. 474,
as San Francisco-Victory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.
363 Berkeley, Berkeley, 1904. Consolidated with Charter Rock No. 410, as
.
.
.
Berkeley No. 363, July l, 1968.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet
No. 205, Oct. l, 1917.
370 Amity , San Francisco, 1905. Con solidated with Seal Rock No. 536, as
Amity-Seal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
371 Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H ., 1905. Name changed to Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
373 Veteran, Sawtelle, 1906. Name changed to West Los Angeles No. 373,
Oct. 12, 1939.
384 El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

386 Corregid or, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transfe rred to Jurisdic tion of Philippi
ne
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolid ated with Selma No. 277, as
Selma
No. 277, Oct. 14. 1915.
410 Charter Rock, Berkele y, 1910. Consolid ated with Berkele y No.
363, as
Berkele y No. 363 . July 1, 1968.
413 Wau coba, Big Pir..e, 1910. Consolid ated with Inyo No. 221,
as Inyo
No. 221, Jan. 10, 1945.
414 Arlingto n, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolid ated with Acacia
No. 438, as
Arlingt on No. 414, Sept. 28, 1959.
432 Rosevill e, Rosevill e, 1912. Consolid ated with Granite No. 222, as
Roseville No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 German ia, L os Angeles , 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438,
Oct. 16,
1918.
A cacia, Los Angeles . Consolid ated with Arlington No. 414, as Arlingto
n
No. 414, Sept. 28, 1959.
453 Bethleh em, San Francisco, 1915. Consolid ated with Crocker
No. 454, as
Crocker No. 454, April 1, 1961.
454 Crocker , Daly City, 1915. Consolid ated with Bethleh em
No. 453, as
Crocker No. 454, April l , 1961.
456 K ennett. Kennett , 1915. Consolid ated with Reading No. 254, as
Reading
No. 254, Dec. 19. 1925.
461 Argonau t, San Francisco, 1916. Consolid ated with Argonne No.
514, as
Argonau t-Argon ne No. 461, Dec. 5, 1968.
464 Alta Vista, San Francisc o, 1916. Consolid ated with Mount Vernon
No.
517, as Alta Vista-M ount Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.
474 Victory, San Fra ncisco, 1919. Consolid ated with San Francisc o
No. 360,
as San Francisc o-Victor y No. 360. Nov. 29, 1961.
478 Thousan d Oaks, Berkele y, 1920. Consolid ated with Indian Rock
No. 638,
as Thousan d Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
439 E ast Bay, Orinda, 1920. Consolid ated with Hillcres t No. 573,
as East
Bay No. 489, Dec. 1, 1967.
49G Riverda le, Riverda le, 1921. Consolid ated with Welcom e No. 255, as Welcome No. 255, May 18. 1943.
514 Argonne, San F rancisco, 1922. Consolid ated with Argonau t No.
461, as
Argonau t-Argon ne No. 461, Dec 5, 1968.
517 Mount Vernon, San Francisco, 1922. Consolid ated with Alta Vista
No.
464, as Alta Vist a-Moun t Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.
521 Piedmon t, Piedmon t, 1922. Consolid ated with Orinda No. 704, as
Orinda
No. 521, Dec. 1, 1966.
522 Sunrise, Montere y Park , 1922. Consolid ated with Belvede
re No. 539, as
Belvede re Sunrise No. 522, July 1, 1968.
·
536 Seal Rock, San Francisc o, 1922. Consolid ated with Amity
No. 370, as
Amity-S eal Rock No. 370, March 1, 1963.
539 Belvede re, Montere y Park, 1922. Consolid ated with Sunrise No. 522,
as Belvede re Sunrise No. 522, July l, 1968.
542 L ankersh im, Nor th H ollywoo d, 1923. Name changed to North
Hollywood No. 542, Oct. 12, 1950.
545 J onathan , San Francisc o, 1923. Consoli dated with Veritas
No. 640, as
Veritas- Jonatha n No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963,
550 Seaport, San Francisc o, 1923. Consolid ated with King Solomon
's
No. 260, as King Solomon 's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.
553 Golden City, San Francisc o, 1923. Consoli dated with Educato
r No. 554,
as Educato r No. 554, F eb. 16, 1940.
554 Educato r, San F rancisco, 1923. Consolida t ed with Golden City
No. 553,
as Educato r No. 554, Feb. 16, 1940.
573 Hillcres t , Orinda, 1923. Consolid ated with East Bay No. 489, as E
ast
Bay No. 489, Dec. 1, 1967.
597 Truth, L os Angeles , 1924. Consolida ted with Beacon of the
West
No. 628, as Truth No. 628, F eb. 14, 1939.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

611

612
616
628
638
640
664
704
799

471

Owensm outh, Owensm outh, 1925. Subsequ ent to the name of the commu nity being changed to Canoga P ark, th e name of the Lodge was
changed to Canoga Park No. 611, Oct. 15, 1931.
Workma n, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612,
Oct. 10, 1929.
Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E . Dolley No. 616,
Oct. 14, 1937.
Beacon of the West, Los Angel es, 1926. Consolid ated with Truth
No. 597, as Truth No. 628, F eb. 14, 1939.
Indian Rock, Berkele y, 1926. Consolid ated with Thousan d Oaks No.
478 as Thousan d Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.
Verltas, San Francisc o, 1926. Consolid ated with J onathan No. 545,
as
Veritas- Jonatha n No. 545, Dec. 3, 1963.
Oasis, E l Centro, 1928. Consolid ated with El Centro No. 384, as
El
Centro No. 384, Aug. 30, 1937.
Orinda, Orinda, 1950. Consolid ated with Piedmo nt No. 521, as Orinda
No. 521, Dec. 1, 1966.
Bay Claire Vista, San Diego. Name changed t o Clairem ont Mesa
N o. 799, October 15, 1964.

172

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
1850

Since Hs Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1856

Jonathan D. S!evenson .. G. M.
Calllornla No. I
lorn Jon. I. llOO
Died Feb. 14, 11'4
John A. Tutt.. __ ______ O. G. M.
Caleb Fenner........._.S. G. W.
Sashel Woods............J . G. W.
Levi Stowell ......................G. T.
John H. Gihon ___________ G. S.

1851
John A. TutL ............... G. M.
Tehama No. S
lorn Feb. 4. 1115
Dlod Moy 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyem.......... D. G. M.
E. F. F. Ellis. __ ________ G.
Benj. S. Olds ......- ......J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomas ...... G. T.
Levi Stowell _ ___________ G. S.

s. w.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam ........ G. M .
Bonlclo No. I
lorn l.4arch I, 1111
Died July 12. 18'1
Chu. M. Redcliff... ... D. G. M.
Addison Martin ................ G.T.
J . R. McConnell ........J. G. W.
Addison Mertin................G . T.
Levi Stowell ...................... G. S.

1853
Charles M. Radcliff...._ G. M.
Tuolumne No. I
Born Feb. 5, 1111
Dlod Doc. 11, 18.,
T. A. Thomu. ............. D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crendell........S. G . W .
Richard F. Knott........ J. G . W .
Addison Mertin..________ G. T.
Levi Stowell...................... G. S.

1854
William H. Howerd ___ G. M.
San Jo11 No. 10
l orn Au9. 2'. 1110
Dlod Sopt. 11, 18"
Neth. G. Curtis...._ .O. G. M.
Rector E. Cole..........S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W .
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Levi Stowell .._ .................. G. S.

185!i
Wllliam H. Howerd ...... G. M.
T. A. Thomas ____________ D. G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond ......S. G. W.
Sam. A. MerritL.....J. G. W.
Add iso• Martin ..............G. T.
Lo.-1 Stowell _ _____ ______ &. S.

William H. Howard...... G. M.
John A. Raymond.._D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon .........___ S. G. W .
Peter W . Randle......J . G. W.
Addison Martin .•....._____ G. T.
Alex G. Abell ..--······--G· S.

1863

Willlem C. Balcher........ G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
Louis Cohn........_ ..... S. G. W.
Wm. A. Davies.......... J. G . W.
James Laidley .................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell _________ &. S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtls......G. M.
Washln9ton No. 20
Born Feb. 11 1125
Died July lz, 18'7
Charles Marsh ___________ D. G. M.
Aaron D. ParL. ________ S. G. W.
John B. Pope .......,.,_..J. G. W.
Addison Martin ····--·----G• T.
Alex G . Abell ···--····-6. S.

1858
Nathaniel G . Curtis _____G. M.
P. W . .:>hepheard...... D. G. M.
Wm. McCormick.. ___ S. G. W.
Jas. W. BidnelL......J. G . W.
Addison Martin ..............G. T.
Alex G. Abell. ................. G. S.

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtil......G. M.

P. W. Shepheard...... D. G. M.
Ebeneter Lene .......... S. G . W .
Thos. P. Hawley______ J. G . W.
Add ison Martin .............. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL............... G. S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis.. ....G. M.
P. W. Shephaard ...... D. G. M.
Wm. C. Belcher........ S. G. W.
Alvinia Hayward ...... J. G . W.
Addison Martin .............. G. T.
Alex G. Abell. ................. G. S.

1861
J ames L English............ G . M.
Sacromento No. 40
Born Juno 5, 1111
Clod May 2', 188'
Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M.
John W. Harville .......S. G. W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Leidley................ G. T.
Alex G. Abell .................. G. S.

1862
William C. Belcher........ G. M.
Corinthian No. 6'
Born Doc. 12. 1820
Died Sopl. I, 1195
Gil. B. Cleiborne ...... D. G. M.
John W. He rville ...... S. G. W.
John 8. Hewson ........J. G. W.
James Laidley . .. ............. G. T.
Alex G . Abell ____________ <;. S.

473

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

188'
William C. Belcher ........ G. M.
Gil. B. Claiborne...... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Davies.......... S. G. W.
Isaac S. Titus .............. J. G. W.
James Laidley .................. G . T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S

1865
Gilbert 8. Claiborne...... G. M.
San Joaquin No. If
lorn 1821
Died Doc. I, 1908
Wm. A. Davln ......... D. G. M.
Isaac S. Titus.............. S. G. W.
Henry H. Hertley ...... J. G . W.
James Laidley .................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S.

1868
Gilbert B. Cleiborne ...... G. M.
Henry H. Hertley....... D. G . M.
Wm. H . Peterson ...... S. G . W .
Thomes BecL............J. G. W.
James Laidley.................. G . T.
Alex G. Abell.................. G. S

1867
William A. Devles.. ........ G. M.
Columbla No. 21
Born Fob. 5. 1127
Died Juno 20. 1916
Henry H. Hartley.... D. G. M.
Thomas BecL........... S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Prett......J. G. W.
J11mas A. La idley............G. T.
Alex G. Abell.................. 6. S.

1868
Charles Marsh ................ 6. M.
Novede No. ll
lorn Doc. 6. I12S
Dlod April 21. 1176
Theo. G. Codrill...... S. G. W.
Leonidas E. Prett...... D. G. M.
Fredk. F. Barss... ....... J. G. W.
James Laidley .................. G. T.
Alez G. Abell.. ............... G. S.

1869

1876

1883

leonidu E. Pratt ......... G. M.
Mountain Shade No. II
Bern Au9. 2', llll
Died Oct. 25, 1886
Isaac S. Titus .............. D. G. M.
John S. Ward ............ 5. G . W.
Richard Dale .............. J . G . W.
James Laidley ............ ...... G. T.
Alex G. Abell ...... - ........ G. S.

John M. Browne ............ G. M.
Chas. L. Wi99in ...... 0. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells___________S. G. W.
Solon W. Craigua ....J. G. W.
James Laidley.................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S.

1870

John M. Browne ............ G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ...... D. G. M.
Wm. W. Traylor........ S. G. W.
Wm. H . Crane ..........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ·-·----·--·----·G· T.
Aler G. Abell. ... .............. G . S.

Jo nathan D. Hines.. ...... G . M.
Sen luenoventure No. 214
Born Jan. I. 1825
Dlod Doc. 10, 1886
W iley J . Tinnin ........ D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... S. G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker .....J . G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL................ G. S.

Leonidas E. Pratt............G.M.
Isaac S. Titus............ D. G. M.
Chas. L. Wi9gin ........S. G. W.
Benj. H. Freeman ......J. G. W.
James Laidley .................. G . T.
Aler G. Abell ____ ..........G. S.

1871
Leonidas E. Pratt.......... G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggin........ D. G. M.
Ben . H. Freeman....... S. G . W.
Geo. C. Perkins.. ......J. G . W.
James Laldley ________ G, T.
Alex G. AbeJJ..__________ G. S.

1872
Leonidas E. Pratt..........G. M.
Benj. H. Freeman ...... D. G. M.
Geo. C. Perkins.._ .. S. G. W.
John M. Browne ........J. G. W .
James Laldley .................. G. T.
Alex G. AbelL................. G. S.

187'3

Isaac S. Titus. ...............<:i. M.
Son Joaquin No. It
lorn Oct. I~ 1827
Ciod April u. 18'2
Geo. C. Perkins.•_ .. D. G. M.
Jno. M. Browne ........ S. G. W.
Ches. E. Mitchell ...... J. G. W.
James Laidley.................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S.

1874
George C . Perkins........G. M.
Orovlllo No. 101
lorn Au9. 21, 1139
Died Fob. 26, 192.J
John M. Browne....... 0. G. M.
Wm. B. Parker_ ______S. G. W.
Wiley J . Tinnin ..........J . G. W.
James Laidley _______ G. T.
Alex G. AbelL............ ... G. S.

1875

1877

1878
John M. Browne ....... ....G. M.
Wm. W . Traylor ........ D. G. M.
Wm. H. Crane ... ....... S. G. W.
Robt. C. Broder ........J. G . W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell. ................. G. S.

1879
Wil liam W. Traylor ........ G. M.
California No. I
Born March 17. 1822
Dlod Jen. II. 1181
Samu el C. Oenson .... D. G . M.
Clay W. Taylor ........ S. G. W .
John Q. Adams........ J. G. W.
Moses Heller ----·---·----·---G. T.
Alex G. AbelL................. G. S.

1880
Samuel C . Denson ........ G. M.
Union No. SI
Born Sopt. 21. 111'
Olod July 26, 1917
Clay W. Taylor ....... .O. G. M.
John Q. Ad ems ........ S. G. W.
0. W. HollenbecL ..J. G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G. AbalL ............. ... G. S.

1881
Cl,.y W. Taylor .............. G . M.
Wostorn Star No. 2
Born Sopt. IOI 1844
Dlod Mey I, lf7
J ohn Q. Adams........ D. G. M.
J onathan D. Hines.... S. G. W.
Thos. J. Bowers. .........J. G. W.
Moses Heller ..................G. T.
Alox G. Ab ell..................G. S.

John M. Browna............G. M.
Naval No. f7
1882
Born Mey 10, 1111
Clay W. Taylor . .. ... .. G. M.
Died Doc. 7. 11'4
Chas. L Wig9in......D. G. M. J onathan D. Hines.... O. G. M.
Wiley J. Tin nin.......... S. G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Jacob H. Neff..........J. G. W. George Hinds ............J G. W.
James Laidley.................. G. T. Moses Heller ..................G. T'.
Alex G. Abell.._ ............. 6. S. I Alex G. Abell....... . . . .. G. S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines........ G. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin ........ O. G . M.
Ed m. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W.
Hiram N. Ruder......J. G. W.
Moses Heller .................. G. T.
Alex G. Abell......... ......... G. S.

1885
W iley J. Tlnnln .............. G. M.
Trinity No. 11
Born Oct. 7. 1m
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm. C. At kinson...... D. G . M.
Hiram N. Ruder...... S. G . W.
Henry H. Knepp...... J. G. W.
Nathan W Spauldin9 .... G. T.
Alez G. A.bell................ .. G. S.

1888
Edmund C. Atkinson .... G. M.
Sacramento No. 40
lorn No.-. 17, IU7
Dlod l.4arch 20, lfll
Hiram N. Rucker...... D. G. M.
Morris M. Estae........ S. G. W.
Alveh R. Conklin ......J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G . T.
Alex G. AbelL............... G . S.

1887
Hiram N. Ruder .......... 6. M.
La 6ran90 No. "
Born Sopt. 6. 1144
Olod Dec. U , 1905
Morris M. Estee........ D. G . M.
Alvah R. Conklln...... S. G. W
Wm. Johnston ..........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ..•. &. T.
Alex G. Abell.. ................ G. S.

1888
Morris M. Estee............ G. M.
Callfornla No. I
lorn Nov. 21, 1114
Clod Oct. 7. 1901
Alvah R. C onklin ...... D. G. M.
William Johnston ......S. G. W.
Marc. D. BorucL......J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding ....G. T.
Alex G. AbelL.. ............. 6. S.

474

475

GRAND LODGE OF CALIPORNlA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1881

1895

1901

1907

1913

1919

Morris M. Estee............ G. M.
-Hilli•m Johnston .... 0. G. M.
Che1. R. Gritmen ...... S. G . W.
Henry S. Orme........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
Al .. G. AbelL..- •..........G. S.

Edward M. Prest o!'!..... ..G . M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May 4, 1841
Died Aprll 24, 1903
Wm. T. Lucas ............ D. G. M.
Thomas Flint ..........•.... S. G . W .
F. M. Ang ellotti........ J. G . W.
Ed ward Coleman ............ G . T.
G e orge Johnson ... ___....G . S.

Will iam S. Wells ....... _.G. M.
Martinet No. 41
Born Jvne 24, 1161
Died Jan. 23, 1919
0 . S. Hen derson...... D. G. M.
Chu. W . Nutting •...S. G. W.
G eo. W. Hunter ..... J . G . W.
Edward Cole ma n..•......_.G , T.
George J ohnson ............G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............G . L

George M. Perine........ G . M.
Pacific No. llt
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, "ll
Re uben H . Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawle r......... S. G . W.
W. Frank Pierce ... J . G . W.
Edward C oleman............G. T.
George J oh nson ... _____ G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.... · - -G. L

John D. Murphey ...- ..... G . M.
Alla No. l3J
Born July 7, 186]
Died Sept. 15, 1941
Ban j. F. Bledsoe ........ D. G. M.
Alb . G . Burnett........ S. G . W .
F. V. Keesling .. ..........J. G . W .
W m. Parke r Filmer..._ ... G. T.
J o hn Which er. .................G. S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G . L.

Charles Albert Adems.. 6. M.
b celslor No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Died Moy I, 1962
Geo. F. Rodden .•...... D. G. M.
Sam. E.. Burke...- ...... 5. 6. W.
W m. A. Sherman......J. G. W .
W m. Por ~ er Filmer.____ e;. T.
J ohn W hicher........- ...... G . S.
Thomn J . Baker..............G. L

1890
Alvah R. Conllin.......... .. G . M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 11]5
Died Oct. s. Im
W illiam Johnston ...... D. G . M.
Chas. R. Gritmen....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme........J . G. W .
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
George J ohnson ............G . S.

1891
William Johnstol'l .......... G . M.
Ffenklln No. 143
Born Jvne 2, 1825
Died No•. 14, 1'°5
Chai R. Gritmel'l ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme _...... $. G . W .
Jes. B. Stevens .......... J. G. W .
Na than W Spaulding .... G. T.
George JohMol'I ···-·······G• S.

1898
William T. Luces........._ G . M.
Guadalupe No. DJ
Born M.,ch I8, IISO
Died March 21 , 1'31
Th o ~as Flint.............. D. G . M.
F. M. Angellotti........S. G. W.
Chas. L. Patton ........J . G . W.
Edward C oleman ............ G . T.
George J ohnson ···-······G S.

1897
Tho mas Flint .................. G. M.
Texas No. 46
Born May 19, 1851
Died NoY. II, 193'
F. M. Angellotti ........D. G . M.
Ch~s L. Patton.......... S. G. W.
Jes. A. Foshay ..........J . G. W.
Edward Cole men ............ G . T.
George J ohnson ............ G. ; .

1892

1898

Charles R. Gritman .. _ . G . M.
Yount No. 12
lorn Dec. 10, llJI
Died Mey 14, 1n4
Henry S. Orme...•.... D. G . M.
Jes. B. Slevens.......... S. G . W.
Edw. M. Preslon ........J . G. W ,
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
G eorg• J ohnson - -........ G . S.

Frenl M. Angellotti.._ G. M.
Morin No. 191
lorn Sept. 4, 1861
Died Moy 23, 1'32
Chas. L. Patton ........ 0 . G . M .
Jes. A. Foshey..........S. G. W.
Wm. S. Wells........ ....J . G . W.
Ed ward C olemen ............ G . T.
G eorge Johnson ............ G. S.

1893
H e nry S. Orme_ ___ _G. M.
So. C•llfornle No. m
l orn March 25, 1137
Died Now. 2', 1912
Ju. B. St e•enL.. - .... D. G . M.
Edw. M. Pr11ton..•..... S. G . W.
Wm. T. Lucas..-........J. G. W .
Edwerd Colemen........•... G. T.
George Johnson ...- •..•_ G . S.

1894
Jemes B. Stevens ..........G. M.
Yount No. 12
lorn M•rdt 27; 1141
Died Dec. 6, I It

Edw. M. Preston _ ___ D. G . M.
O.omes FlinL.- .......J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucu ........... S. G . W.
Edward Coleman.......- ...G. T.
George Johnson ............ 6. S.

1899

Charles L Patton......._.c:,. M.
Callforn la No. I
Born 1865
Died Aprll 11, ttn
Jes. A. Foshey....._ .. O. G . M.
Wm. S. Wells............S. G . W .
0 . S. Hendenon...•..J. G. W .
Edward Colemen ............G. T.
G e orge Johnson ............ G . S.

1900
James A. Foshey............ G , M.
So. Callfornla No. m
Born NoY. 23, 115'
Died Jan. 14. ttl4
Wm. S. Wells............ O. G . M.
0 . S. Hend enon ......S. G. W .
C has. W. N utting.... J . G. W .
Edward Cole man....•....... G . T.
G e orge J ohnson ............G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds............G. L

1902
Orrin S. He ndenon .. _•.G . M.
Mornin9 Star No. 61
Born J une 2, 1163
Died J une 25,
Chas. W. Nutting ....O. G. M.
Geo, W. Hunter...... S. G . W.
Motley H . Flint........J . G. W.
Edward Colemen ... ......... G. T.
G eorge J ohnson ... _ ...G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards .......... G. L

""°

1903
Charles W . Nutting ...... G . M.
Evenln9 Ster No. 114
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W . H unter ..... 0 . G. M.
Motely H . Flint........ S. G . W.
Edw. H. Hart ........... J . G. W.
Edward C oleman............G. T.
G e orge J ohnson .. ......... G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............ G. L

1904
George W . Hunter .... G. M .
Humboldt No. 7'
Sorn 1854
Died Oct. 14, lt25
Motley H . Flint........O. G . M.
Edw. H . Hart............ S. G . W.
Geo. M. Perine ........J . G . W.
Edward C olemen .. .......... G . T.
G eorge J ohnson ......•.....G. S.
W m. H . Edwards............ G. L

1908
Oscar Lawle r...- ............G . M.
Ea.I Get• No. 2'0
Born Aprll l , 1871
Died Jen. l , 1966
W . Franl Pierce ........ D. G . M.
Dana R. Weller ........ S. G . W.
A. J. Monroe ............J. G. W.
Edward Co:emen .. .......... G. T.
John Whicher_ ............... G. S.
Tho mas J . Baker. ...__ ____ G, L

1914

1920

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............G . M.
San hrnordlno Ho. J.41
Born Feb. 8, 1874
Died Oct. JO, 1931
Alb. G . Burn ett........D. G . M.
F. V. Kaesllng ............ S. G. W .
W . Rh. Hervey ..... .....J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J oh n W hicher .................. G. S.
Thomes J . Baker.... _. ___ G , L.

G eorge F. Rodden ........ G. M.
Marin No. l'I
l orn Dec.24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Bur\e.-•....... D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman ...... S. G. W .
Arthur S. Crifes ........ J . G . W .
Wm. Parke r Filmer ..........G. T.
John Whiche r.....·- ··-·-··G . S.
Thomu J . Baler. ______ G , L

1909

1915

1921

W . Frank Pie rce ............ G . M.
Oakland No. lft
Born Jan. " · 1855
Died Oct. 3, l" O
Da na R. W eller ...... .. D. G . M.
A. J. Mon roe ............S. G . W.
Wm. P. Fil me r ..........J. G. W.
Edward Cole man ............ G. T.
John Wh icher .................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker. ............. G. L.

Al bert G . Burn ett..•....... G . W .
Santo Rosa No. 57
Born April t, 1156
Died Au9. 15, 1923
F. V. Keesling ......... D. G . M.
W m. Rh. H ervey......S. G . W .
Bra dford W e bster.. .. J. G. W.
W m. Parker Filme r .......... G. T.
J ohn Whic her..................G. S.
Tho mas J . Bak er.............. G. L

Samuel E. Bur\e ____ ...... G . M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Feb. 14, 1961
Wm, A. Sherman ___ _O, G. M.
Arthur S. Crlfes ........S. G . W .
David J. Reese ..........J. G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer ..........G . T.
J ohn Whichar .................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker......•...- G . L

1910

1918

1922

Da na R. W ell er ........... G . M.
So. Callfornla No. 271
Born l•brth 24. 1874
Died Jan. ' ·
A. J . Monroe.......- .. D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filme r.......... S. G . W.
J. D. Murphey ..........J. G . W.
Ed ward Cole men ............ G. T.
J ohn Whicher............._ .. G. S.
Thomes J . Bak er .............. G . L.

Fra ncis V. Keesling ...... . G . M.
Callfornla No. I
Born Fob. 17, 1177
Died Sept. 25, 196]
Wm. Rh. He rvey...... D. G . M .
Bradfo rd Websf e r .... S. G. W .
Charles A. Adams.. ..J. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Which er .................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G. L.

W illiem A. Sherman .... G . M.
PrHldlo No. 354
l orn Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. It, IMO
Arthur S. Crite1........ D. G . M.
David J . Reese ..........S. G . W.
Alb. E. Boynton..._ ..J . G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmar..........G . T.
John Whicher....____ ___.G . S.
Thomas J . Ba\er .............. G. L

"47

1911

1917

1923

Motley H. Flint.........- .. G . M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born Feb. 19, 1165
Died July 14, ltJO
Edward H. Hert... - ... 0 . G. M.
Geo. M. Perine........S. G . W .
Reuben H. lloyd ......J . G. W.
Edward Colemen ............ G . T.
George Johnso!'! ............G . S.
Wm. H. Edwards............G . L

Alonro J . Monroe .......... G . M.
Humboldt No. 7'
Born Oct. 191 1851
Died J une I•, lt21
Wm. P. Filmer........ D. G. M.
J . D. Murphey ..........S. G . W .
Benj. F. Bledsoe ........J . G. W .
Edward C ole man .._ ....... G. T.
J ohn Whlehe r.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baker ............. G. L

Wm. Rhodes H ervey .... G . M .
Pontalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 11711
Died Feb. I, 1'53
Bradfo rd W ebst e r .... D. G . M.
Charles A. Adems .... S. G. W .
G eo. F. Rodden. ..... J . G. W .
Wm. Parker Filmer .......... G. T.
J oh n Whicher. ................. G . S.
Thomas J . Baker.............. G . L.

Arthur S. C rit es ............ G. M.
8okon0eld No. n4
l orn Fob. 4. 1879
Died Apr. 28, 19S7
David J . Reese ......... 0 . G . M.
Alb. E. Boynton .•...... S. G. W .
G eo. L. Jones ............J. G . W .
Wm. Per\er Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J. Ba\er.............. G. L.

Edward H. Hart ............ G . M.
Live Oak No. "
Born l lSI
Died Sept. 14, 1917
G eo. M. Perlne ........ D. G . M.
Reube n H . Uoyd...... S. G. W.
Oscar Lewler ........... .J. G. W.
Edward C ole man ............ G . T.
G eorge J ohnson ............ G. S.
Wm. H. Edwerds______ .6 . L

Wm. P'. Filmer ............ . G . M.
Kln9 Snlomon No. 260
Bo'" March t , 1864
Died Nov. 22, 1942
J no. D. Murphey..... D. G. M.
Ben j. F. Bled1oe........ S. G . W.
Alb. G . Burnett ......•.J. G. W .
Edwerd C ole man............G. T.
J ohn Whicher .................. G . S.
Thomes J . Beker..... _ . ___ G. L

1905

1906

1912

1918

1924

Br.,dford Webster ....... G . M .
u .. O•k No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 18''
Died June 4, 1'41
Charles A. Adams.... D. G . M.
Geo. F. Ro ddf!n ........S. G . W .
Sam. E. Burke ..........J. G . W .
W m. Parker Filmer........ .. G . T.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Thomes J . Beker..........- -G. L.

Oavld J . Reese ...... ........ G . M.
Sen Buenaventura No. 214
l orn Auq . n , 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1'34
0 . G . M.
Alb. E. Boynfo!'I_
Geo. L. J on es ...... _.S. G . W .
W ill H. Fische r ..........J . G . W
Wm . P• r\er Filmer..........G . T.
J ohn Whlcher. .................6. S.
Thomes J . Beler..____6 , L.

i76

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

\925
Alb.rt E. Boynton..........G. M .
Oro•lll• No.IOJ
lorn Oct. 9, 1175
DI od Fob. 22, 1941
Geo. L JoneL ......... D. G. M.
Will H. Fischer ........•.. S. G. W.
Gus A. HutafL.......J. G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmor .......•..G . T.
John Whicher.. ·-·-··········G• S.
ThomH J. Baker..........- G. L.

1926
Georg• L JonH .... - -.. G. M.
Modl1on No. 2l
lorn May 11. 1173
Died June 22, 1'56
Will H . Fischer....- .. 0. G . M.
Gus. A. Hutall.......... S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenber9 ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmer .......... G. T.
Joho Whicher..................G . S.
Thomas J. Beker._........... G. L.

1927
Will H. Fischer ............ G. M.
Wll1hlro No. 445
lorn S•pt. 11 , 117'
Dl•d Od. 4, 1'53
Gus. A. Hutafi.......... D. G . M.
C. M. Wollenberg ... S. G . W.
J . S. Rou ....................J. G. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer.. ....... .G . T.
John Whicher.......... ........ G . S.
Thomas J. Baker .............. G . L.

1928
Gustav A. Huteff......... G . M.
Dunsmuir No. '1.'f7

lorn Od. 5, 1179
Died Oct. 17, 1'3J
C . M. Wollenberg . D. G . M.
J. S. Ron .. ·- ·--········ S. G. W.
Robt. B. Gaylord ... ...J. G . W.
W'm, Perler Filrner.......... G . T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J. Baler.............. G . L.

1929
C. M. Wollenberg ........G . M.
Starr Kln9 No. 344
l orn March 13, 1m
Died Oct. 22, 1962
John S. Ron..... ·-··· D. G . M.
Robt. B. Geylord ......S. G . W .
Frank W. Mixter._ ....J. G. W .
Wm. Parler Filmer... .... G. T.
John Whicher..- .............. G. S.
Thomes J. Baler._........... G. l.

1931

1937

Robt. B. Geylord_ .._ .. G. M.
Oakland No. 188
lorn Nov. 24, 1876
Died Au9. 4. 1953
Frank W. Mixter......D. G. M.
James B. GisL......_.S. G. W.
Wm . A. Sitton ..........J . G . W.
Wm. Parler Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.•.•.•.- ......... G. S.
Thomas J. Beker.- ..... _ .. G . L.

James T. Freser..............G. M.
Humboldt No. 7'
Born Au9. 21, 1861
Died Jun• 26, 1953
Leon 0. Whitsell...... D. G. M.
William H. Waste....S. G. W.
William B. Ogden ....J . G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Leslie E. Wood ......_ _ _G, L

1932
Frank W . Mixter............G . M.
e..t•r No. 424
Born D'oc. JO, 117]
Di•d Moy 22, 1947
James B. Gist............. D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sitton ..........S. G. W.
R. V. Whitin9............ J . ~- W.
Wm. Perler Filmer.....•.... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Beler..........-.G . L.

1933
James 8. Gist ................ G. M.
Pontalpha No. 201
Born Au9. I , IHI
Died Aprll 25, 1954
R. V. Whiting .......... 0 . G. M.
Earl Warren.............. S. G . W.
Rollie W. Miller........ J. G. W .
w~. Parker Filmer ...... .. G . T.
J oh n Whicher.................. G. S.
Thomas J . Baler ..... .. G , l.

1934
R11ndolph V. Whitinq G . M.
Kln9 Solomon No. 2&0
Born Nov. 30, 1170
Olod Fob. 4, 1952
Earl Warren.·-·-·- ··D. G . M .
Rollie W. Miller........ S. G . W.
James T. Freser........ J . G. W.
Wm. Parler Fil..,er.......... G . T.
John Whicher.................. G . S.
Leslie E. Wood................ G. L.

1935

1938

Leon 0. Whitsefl ____ 6, M.
Or1n90 Gro.. No. m
Born July 10, 1174
Di•d F•b. 25, 1966
William H. Waste .•.. D. G. M.
W illiam B. Ogden ..•. S. G. W.
Lloyd E. Wilson ........J. G . W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T.
J ohn Whicher..................G. S.
Leslie E. Wood..-·-····G. L

1939
William B. Ogden ........ G . M.
Hollywood No. !SS
l orn Au9. 2,, 117'
Died Sop!. 12, 1954
Lloyd E. Wilson........ O. G. M.
Frank M. Smith ........ S. G. W.
Leslie E. Wood ........J . G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmer .......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Walter Leonard ..............G. L

1940
Lloyd E. Wilson.............. G. M .
ln9losldo No. UO
l orn Aug. I&, 1895
Dlod No•. 2. 1961
Frank M. Smith . ........0. G. M .
Le•lio E. Wood ........ S. G. W .
Claude H. Morrison. J. G. W.
Wm. Perler Filmer.......... G. T.
John Whicher.................. G. S.
Walter Leonerd ..............G. L.

1941

1930

1938

Frank M. Smith.......... .... G . M .
East Gale No. 290
Born Aprll 1, 1894
Olod Aprll 7, 1'51
Le•lie E. Wood ........ 0 . G . M.
Claude H. Morrison. S. G. W .
G. C. DeForest........J. G. W .
Wm. Parler Filmer.•....... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Chester H. Warlow .... .. G. L.

John Stewart Ross ... ..G. M.
El Centro No. 394
Born Mlty 21 , 1879
Died Au9. !I, 1'52
Robt. B. Geylord..... .D. G. M .
Frank W . Mirie r .... S. G. W .
James B. Gist ..... .J. G . W.
Wm. Parler Filmer ....... G . T.
John Wl. icl. er ··---····- · .G. S.
Thomas J. Baler..............G. L

Rollie W. Miller..... . . G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1893
Died July 18, 1760
James T. Fraser...... 0 . G. M.
Leon 0 . Whitsell.. ....S. G . W.
William H. Waste ...J . G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmer .... G. T.
John Wl.icher ...-........ G. S.
Leslie E. Wood ... _ .... G. L

Leslie E. Wood.............. G . M.
Provident No. &Ot
Born Aprll 2, 11'7
Claude H . Morrison.. D. G . M.
Gilbert C. OeForest.. S. G . W .
Wm. Parker Filmer- ....... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson...............G. S.
C hester H. Warlow .. _ ... G . L.
Lawrence C . Kelley .. J. 6. W.

Earl Warr•n········- -······G . M.
Soquola No. !4'
Born March 19, 11191
Rollie W. Miller......O. G . M.
James T. Fraser..- ... S. G . W.
Leon 0 . Whitsell ......J . G. W.
Wm. Parler Filmer........ G. T.
John Whicher......... ......... G . S.
Leslie E. Wood................ G. L

177

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1942

1943
Claude H. Morrison ...- G. M.
Son Dl•qo No. 35
lorn July 10, 1817
Dlod Nov. 2, 1953
Gilbert C . DoFomt..O. G . M.
Lawrence C . Kelley .. S. G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G . W.
Frencis V. Keeslin9 ........G. T.
Lloyd E. Wil1on .._____ G. S.
Chester H. Warlow...•.... G. L

1944
G ilbert C. DeForest......G. M.
Roadln9 No. 254
Born Sopt. II. 11119
Died Jon. 25, 1'52
Lawrence C . Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Broulllet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore..........J . G. W.
Franc11 V. KHslin9 ...•....G. T.
Lloyd E. W ilson.............. G. S.
Chester H. Warlow ........G. L

1945
lewrence C. Kelley.. _.G, M.
Pontelpho No. 202
l orn July 23, 188'
Dl•d Oct. 24, 1941
Arthur W. Brouillet...... 6 . M.
Park No. 449
Born Jen. 21, 1894
Olod Sept. 18, 195J
J ohn R. Moore........ S. G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G . T.
Lloyd E. W il1on.. _ ......... G. S.
C hesl er H. Werlow....._.G. L

1946
John R. Moore .............. G. M.
Meridian No. 667
Born Sept. 18']
Died Me rch 28, 1765
Chester H . Warlow.. O. G. M.
Edward H. Siems...... S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer ........J . G . W.
Francis V. Keesling ........G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson.............. G , S.
Arthur M . Warren ..........6. L

1947
Chester H. Werlow...- G. M .
f<e1no No. 247
lorn Jun• JO I !8'
Died December 10, 1963
Edward H . Siems.. .... O. G. M.
Ellsworth Meyer........ S. G. W.
Arthur Pa ulsen........J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. W ilson .............. G. S.
Arthur M. Werren ..........G . L

1948
Edwerd H. Siem&.. ........ G . M.
Plymouth No. 560
lorn D•comb•r 7, 1901
Ellsworth Meyer_ ... O. G . M.
Arthur Paulsen ..........S. G. W.
Louts C . Orepeeu ......J . G . W.
Fronds V. Kee1lin9 .. ,_.. G. T.

Lloyd E. Wilson ......._...•. _G.S.
Arthur M. W1rren....- ...G. L.

1949
Ellsworth Meyer ............ G. M.
Libera l Aris No. 677
Born Fob. 27, 1905
Arthur Peulsen ...... .... D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeeu .. ....S. G. W.
Arthur M. Werren ....J. G. W .
Frencis V. Keesling ........G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G . S.
Walter H . E. von Konsky G. L.

1955
Edgar V. Stewart, J r .....G .M.
Loyalty No. 529
Born Oct. J, 1901
Died May 22, 1969
L, Herold Anderson .. O.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ........ S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers..............J .G .W .
Edward H. Siems.._._, ... G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson...._._____ 6.S.
Elbert W. Oevi1-.- ..-._G .L

1956

1950
Arthur Paulsen ···-··-6 . M.

L Herold Anderson ..._ G .M.

1951

Leo E. A.nderson _____G .:--4.
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20, 1902
Phil N. Myers ............ O.G.M.
Joe L Shell ................ S.G .W .
Alfred F. Bresleuer......J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems............ G .T.
Lloyd E. W ilson..._.........G. S.
Elbert W. OeviL.. ............. G.L

Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 1890
Died Sept. 20, 1969
Louis C . Drepeeu ......O. G. M.
Arthur M. Werren ....S. G. W.
Frank Harwell, Jr.....J . G. W.
Francis V. Keeslin9...- G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .............. G. S.
W alter H. E. von Kon1ky G.L
Louis C . Drepeeu ....._.Q. M.
Polnuttle No. Ul
l orn Au9. JO, 1185
Arthur M. Warren .. O. G. M
Frank Harwell, Jr.....S. G . W
Henry C . Clausen ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling ........6. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................ G.S.
W elter H . E. von Konsky G . l.

1952
Arthur M. W.uren........ G . M .
Mt. Davidson No. '481
Born D•combor 27, 1901
Died May 21, 1'64
Fra nk Harwell , Jr ..... D. G. M.
He nry C. Clausen .... S. G . W.
Edger V. Stewart, Jr. J. G. W .
Fra ncis V. Keeslin9 ........ G . T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................ G.S.
Elbert W . Davis .............G. L.

1953
Frank Harwell, Jr•........ G. M .
lonrly HUI• No. 528
l orn October 4, 1198
Died Jan. 25, 1964
Henry C . Clausen .... D. G . M.
Edger V. Stewart, Jr•.. S. G. W .
L. Herold Anderson..J. G. W .
Francis V. KHslin9 .......... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ....... .....G . S.
Elbe rt W. Oavis... ........... G. L.

1954
Henry C. Clausen ..........G .M.
ln9lu ldo No. 63<1
Born Juno 30, 1905
Edgar V, St ewert, Jr.. D.G.M.\
L. Harold A.nderson... .S.G.W.
Leo E. Ands rson ._ ...... J .G .W.
Edward H . Siems.. ............ G.T.
Lloyd E. W ilson .............. G. S.
Elbert W . Devis . .. .. ....... G .l.

Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Leo E. Anderson ........ O.G .M.
Phil N. Myers.......•......S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell ........- ......•.J .G .W .
Edwa rd H. Siems..............G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Elbert W . OavlL.- .... -.6 .L

1957

195ll

Phil N. Myers ..............._. G .M.
McCloud Lod9e No. 4l0
Born, January 12, 11'7
Joe L. Shell.....- -- ···O.G.M.
Alfred F. Bresleuer..- S.G .W .
Guy B. Miie ........._ ....J .G.W.
Edward H. Siems..............G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G .S.
Elbert W. Oavis................G .L

19S9
Joe L Shell.. ----- · ·6 .M.
San 01090 No. l5
lorn February 18, 18'2
Alfred F. Bresleuer_.O.G .M.
Guy B. Miie______ S.G.W.
Ira W. Cobum_ . __ __J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ...... _ .....G .T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ................G .S.
Elbert W . Oavis....- ......G . L.

1960

Alfr4>d F. Bre~ lauer..........G .M.
Sterr King No. 344
lorn Au9ust 26, 11198
Guy B. Mite ........ - ..... 0 .G .M.
Ira W . C oburn ............S.G .W .
Elmer W . Heald..........J.G.W .
Arthur M . Warren ........_ G .T.
Edwllrd H . Siems..............G .S.
Oon1ld S. Cempbell .... ....G.L

478

GRA ND LODGE O F CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1961

479

UST OF INSPECTORS

1967

Guy B. Mize .................... G. M. Eugene S. Hopp.............. G .M.
Unity No. 368
Born April 23, 1901

Ira W. Coburn ..........D. G. M.
Elmer W. Heald ...- ... S. G. W .
Theodore Meriam ....J. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren.._.____G. T.
Edward H. Siems............ G. S.
Donald G. Campbell .. ...G. L

1962
Ira W. Coburn ................ G.M.
Dor ic No. 216
Born Jan. 26, 1904

Elmer W. Heald .......... D.G.M.
Theodore Meriam ....•...S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith ............J .G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ............G.T.
Edward H. Siems.............. G.S.
Donald G. CampbelL....... G.L.

1963
Elmer W, Heald ............G.M.
El Centro No. 384
Born J a n. 7, 1685

Theodore Meriam ...... D.G.M .
Myron E. Smith .......... S.G.W.
Laurence E. Dayton .... J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren .......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ............ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell .. ... G.L.

1964
Theodore Meriam .......... G.M.
Chico No. 111
Born Apri l 18, 1910

Myron E. Smith ............D.G.M .
Laurence E. Dayton .... S.G.W.
John F. Porter..............J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger................G.T.
Edward H. Siems..............G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ........G.L.

1965
Myron E. Smith................ G.M.
University No. 394
Born Dec. 2. 1906

Laurence E. Dayton .... D.G.M.
John F. Porter..- ......... S.G.W .
Eugene S. Hopp......_ .. J.G.W .
Paul A. Pflueger................ G.T.
Edward H. SiemL.... - ..... G.S.
Harold N. Richards.......... G.L.

1966
Laurance E. Dayton ........ G .M.
Live Oak No. 61
Bo rn Nov. 28, 1900

John F. Porter.............. D.G.M .
Eugene S. Hopp.__ ___ S.G.W.
Robert A. Crigler........ J .G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger................ G .T.
Edward H. Siems.............. G.S.
Harold N. Richards......._G.L.

King Solomon's Seaport
No. 260
Born April 25, 1910

Robert A. Crigler..._... D.G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee .... S.G.W.
Herbert A. Hue bner....J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger................ G.T.
Edward H. Siems.............. G .S.
Harold N. Richards.......... G.L.

1968
Robert A. Crigler.......... G.M.
John Marshall No. 636
Born Jun e 28, 1916

Chester R. MacPhee, D.G.M.
Herbert A. Huebner S.G.W.
Lester S. McElwain ....J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger................G.T.
Edward H. Siems ............ G.S.
Harold N. Richards.......... G .L.

1969
Chester R. MacPhee .... .. G.M.
Golden W est No. 455
Born J une 5, 1905

Herbert A. Huebner.. D.G.M .
Lester S. McElwain ..... S.G.W.
William H. Price........J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger.............. G.T.
Edward H. Sie ms ......... G.S.
Harold N. Richards.. ...... G.L.

lrupector!

Date of Commission

District

Niles 0. Millar ...................................................... Ju ly, 1932................................146
Herbert R. Hargrave............................ September 15, 1934................................418
Guido de GhetaldL.. ....................................... October, 1938................................106
Frederic E. Clark..................................... J anu ary 26, 1944 .............................. .560
Ed ward C. Lohmeyer ........................ September 27, 1945 ................................322
Roy T . Kiele....................................................April 22, 1948 ................................ 544
Elmer Glen Van TasselL. ................. September 11, 1948................................242
Ted R . Siems ......................................................May 8, 1950................................614
Andre L. Arman d ....................................January 26, 1951 ............................... 376
Wilfred W. P artridge .................................. March 31 , 1952................................ 500
Edward Farley..................................................May 12, 1952 ....................... .........208
Ray Earl Burdg.......................................September 5, 1953................................217
E. Lloyd Hanson ..........................................January 1, 1954................................150
J ohn H. F erguson . ......................................January 1, 1954................................ 622
Ray S m ith................................ ........ ......December 15, 1954................................550
Alva A. Daniells ........................................January 13 , 1955............................... .427
Edward C. Will... ............................................. July 14, 1955................................167
Frank L eroy Sutliff...................................... Augus t 9, 1955................................ 542
Ralph M. Hinds ..........................................October 29, 1955................................ 118
William Waters Shugart..........................January 6, 1956................................431
Daniel K leiman ..............................................July 16, 1956................................ 411
E. Ross Baylis..................................................July 25, 1956................................ 365
Hewell E. Carlton ......................................August 15, 1956................................ 607
Kenneth Dowell ........................................August 20, 1956................................605
George W. Perkins ..................................January 16, 1957 ................................548
Lewis Hugh Field ..........................................May 15, 1957................................ 637
James E. Bacon ......................................December 15, 1957 ................................ 504
Charles L. Foster......................................January 1, 1959................................334
Alfred Johnson ........................ ........ .......... February 9, 1959................................161
Daniel D. Rowlands ....................................... .April 6, 1959................................340
P ercy W. Lindt. .................................................June 4, 1959................................236
E lmer E. Ross .................................................... June 8, 1959................................ 166
Claudis Thomas S hirley ......................December 1, 1959 ................................ 596
Thurla n Wm. Heidner........................December 15, 1959 ................................ 530
William Robusch ................................ December 15, 1959................................ 582
Ch arles J. Wentz ..................................December 15, 1959................................626
William Bottorff ..........................................April 22, 1960 ................................578
Earl James Walker....................................... .April 22, 1960................................621
Frederick Bolte ................................................May 3, 1960................................385
Lee H . Buchheister.................................... August 20, 1960................................390
Ray H. P aine........................................ September 20, 1960................................ 508
Larry C. Basker..........................................Jan uary 1, 1961................................156
Herbert H. Hobson....................................January 1, 1961................................148
William E. Mars hall... .............................January 27, 1961................................ 212
A. Boyd Collier......................................February 15, 1961................................ 219
Wayne E. Philippi....................................... .March 29, 1961................................250
John Clifton Carpenter......................September 28, 1961.. .............................. 430
Ralph M. Webb ........................................January 1, 1962................................158
Mark E. Schrock......................................January 1, 1962 ................................ 538
Lloyd V. Smith ........................................January 1, 1962................................558
Thomas J . McKimson ............................ January 1, 1962................................ 572
R obert E. Crist .......................................... January 1, 1962................................ 588
James D. Kelso......................................... January 1, 1962................................ 592
Sam .I. Bonn.............................................. January 13, 1962................................215
W illiam Lowell Hurd ................................ .March 14, 1962................................406

480
lrupector•

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Date of Commiuion

District

William E. Foster........................................March 15, 1962................................382
Paul Landis Turner................... - ...................April 5, 1962 ................................ 421
Clyde E. Sinclair........................................January 1, 1963................................211
Joseph W. Wright...................................... January 1, 1963................................ 107
Hazelton French ·························-···········January 1, 1963................................337
Robert M. Montgomery ............................January 1, 1963........................... - ...338
Ray L. Peterson..........................................January 1, 1963................................ 524
Hiram Odell Gordon... _...........................January 1, 1963 ....................... - ....... 609
Denzil D. Kitchens .. ·- -········-··········-··.February 26, 1963.. ·-··············-··-·······226
Charles H. McAllister ..................._...... - ...March 29, 1963... - ........................... 384
Leonard D. Babcock.........- .............. .September l, 1963 ...................- ...........620
George F. Harrison. ..............................._October 18, 1963 ................................. 526
Donald J. Shoemaker..............................October 18, 1963.......... ·-··········-·······584
Stephen J. Collins....................................January 13, 1964................................536
Robert A. Simon......................................January 13, 1964...........................- ...562
Ernest M. Newton ..................................February 17, 1964................................642
Jacob Andrew Feth ......................................March 4, 1964................................214
Sheldon E. Morris........................................March 26, 1964................................ 204
Alfred LeRoy Hayes ..................................March 26, 1964................................210
Robert H. Burrows ................................... .March 26, 1964................................ 154
Shelby F . Passley.................................- ...........May 2, 1964................................ 422
James Harvey Weller....................................May 15, 1964....... - .......................612
Orval F. Carpenter........................................June 17, 1964. ............................... 116
J ames E. Wellet.. ....................................November 1, 1964................... _........... 534
R obert W. Doan......................................November 5, 1964...................- ...........574
William A. Fishback.............................. November 5, 1964................................ 576
Daniel M. Cameron ..............................December 14, 1964................................218
James Robert Ledbetter ....................December 30, 1964................................ 160
John Burszan, Jr .....................................January 1, 1965................................ 364
Casper J. Weir, Jr.....................................January 1, 1965 ............................... .420
Edward E. Seagle......................................January 1, 1965................................ 216
William W. Dickson, Jr...........................January 11, 1965...................- ...........516
Donald T. Wright....................................January 26, 1965................................602
Charles K. Schertle ............................... .February 4, 1965................................564
Joseph Shelborne Babb ..............................April 20, 1965................................ 244
John Duane Williams..................................April 20, 1965................................ 603
Roland E. Soracco............................................May 4, 1965................................404
Donald Kenneth Baldwin............................June 19, 1965................................ 247
William H. Reed ............................................June 28, 1965 ................................372
Earl Clifton Lowe························-················Jul y 12, 1965................................610
James William Belford............................August 27, 1965................................ 636
Hugh Olen Pope, Jr.................................. .August 27, 1965................................ 506
Leroy G. Conne lly.....................- .......September 20, 1965........................... _...630
Jack R. Vickers....................................September 20, 1965................................518
Frank A. Valentine................................December 6, 1965... - ...........................102
Robert A. Klinger...... ·-····-··········-····-··January 4, 1966...................- ...........330
Donald Maltby ···········-····-················-·····January 7, 1966 ................................520
Edward A. Weirick..... ---····················-····.January 7, 1966................................580
Leo S. Brenneman............................... .February 21, 1966................................432
Arlie R. Fleming .............................................March 4, 1966................................ 169
Jean Fred Aeschlimann ..............................April 22, 1966................................378
Stanley L. Channon. .................................... .June 21, 1966................................616
John F. Roberts............................. - .............. .July 25, 1966................................368
Alfred A. Dowers......................·- ········-····.August 3, 1966................................590
Kenneth Lawrence Morris ...........- .........August 30, 1966................................428
Cornelius Kernan. ............................... September 29, 1966................................ 110
Robert Alfred Smallman. ..... ·-········-·······October 6, 1966................................114
Leo B. Mark.. .........·-················-····-····-·····October 8, 1966................................ 370
Phil Campbell ···-··············-··-·············November 29, 1966....... - .......................628
William A. Krueger................... _.......November 29, 1966................................234

ln•pecton

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNll\

481

Date of Commiuion

Diwict

Louis Becker ···············-·························Decembe r 6, 1966...................- ...........333
Robert William Dunwoody................December 19, 1966.......................- .......402
Lyle C. Hall... ............ - ...........................December 19, 1966................................618
Harold A. Miller....................................December 30, 1966................................ 162
Willard Holmes Nutting, Jr.....................January 6, 1967.......................- .......152
Cletus 0. Smith..........................................January 6, 1967 ...........................- ...552
Robert Wilson Lewallen. ....................... J anuary 18, 1967...........................- ...228
Hershel Chester Brown. ......................... January 18, 1967................................220
Jules J . DeMoor........................................January 25, 1967......................._ _____510
J ohn C. Behringer....·-···---·-··········-·······J anuary 31, 1967 ................................606
John William Cunning..............................March 22, 1967.............---------········l 00
Henry Perry Adams ........................................April 7, 1967 ........... - --·----····----·-108
Vernon L. Gordon.......................... ·-··-··········-April 7, 1967................................ 414
Lee Ab ram Strong........................................April 21 , 1967 ..................·-···········608
Robert P. Higgins ............................................J uly 11 , 1967 ................................ 601
Edwin Wiley Branaum. ..- ....................... October 14, 1967 ................................570
John Elias Mikol...-...............................November 3, 1967 ................................ 638
Jacques C. Bourgui gnon....................November 11, 1967.. .....................- .......546
Walter W. Beck ...........- ...........................J anuary l , 1968................................168
Richard Abraham Krug ..........................J anuary 1, 1968................................ 332
Edward Gail Freeman..·-··-·····-··-··-···Januar y 1, 1968................................342
Howard C. Davis ......................................J anuary l, 1968...................- ...........426
Edward Wayne Schneringer................January 1, 1968.................. -------------528
Gordon E. Pledger..................................January 11, 1968................................639
John H. Petersen......................................J anuary 11, 1968................................640
Alfred Earl Pollard..................................January 15, 1968................................ 101
Jerry John Ritch ......................................J anuary 25, 1968................................512
D. Stanley PowelL................................February 13, 1968............................... .424
John Reddick ........................................F ebruary 21, 1968................................227
Nick G . Kerhoulas......·-···-··············---F ebruary 26, 1968.....................•.- .......206
Gerald L. Christensen ..........................February 29, 1968 ................................222
Douglas Millard Kueny..............................March 26, 1968................................392
Sam M. P avlovich..........................................April 26, 1968................................416
Robert George Ingram. ................................. May 31, 1968 ................................238
Ralph J ames Harrington, Jr ........................ .July 18, 1968................................. 390
Ford Ellsworth Long................................August 5, 1968................................ 328
James E. Finley, Jr.................. ........... September 4, 1968................................ 324
LeRoy Chambers ................................ September 4, 1968 ................................ 644
J ames B. Barbero ................................ September 25, 1968 ................................119
Robert McDonald .............................. September 25, 1968 ................................ 120
Morton Tooredm an .................................. October 18, 1968 ................................ 554
Elwood E. Adams............................... .November 6, 1968...........................- ... 646
George Lucian Del Tour·-··-·················January 1, 1969................................ 374
Robert G. Smith·-·········-··-··············· .... .January 1, 1969................................632
Elvin A. Drake ..........................................January I, 1969................................566
R oy Jackson Henville..............................J anuary 1, 1969................................532
Lloyd P. Souza........................................January 17, 19G9................................410
George D. Yale........................................January 18, 1969................................ 248
John Allen Coulter..................................J anuary 18, 1969................................246
William Harrison Schooler.................. January 18, 1969................................ 240
Arthur Leland Hughes ........................ J a nuary 18, 1969......................... ....... 239
Robert Chester Eulberg ............................ March 1, 1969................................594
J. Raymond Craft........................................March 6, 1969........................... ..... 629
John M. Eppler..............................................April 10, 1969................................ 412
Rodney H. Davis............................................ April 28, 1969................................624
George E. Sutt on..........................................April 28, 1969 ................................ 635
John W. Taylor..............................................May 2, 1969.......... ......................641
George Paul Leung........................................May 20, 1969.......................... ...... 344

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Thomas H. Wright... . . ........... ........................June 11, 1969.. . .
.. . ............. 586
James 0. Fourr..... .. . .. ....... .... . .........July 15, 1969..
.. ... 502
Martin Michalec ......... . ... ..... ... ......September 26, 1969............................... 394
Preston Marion Mecum ..... ........ ......... September 29, 1969. ............ . . .
...224
Maurice Jay Norton...... ......... ......... ...... October 6, 1969.. .
.. ........... ... 576
George Nelson Rodgers ............ .. ............ October 11, 1969..
.....
....104
Ronald A. Sherod................... ............ November 3, 1969........... ......... ...... . .. 634
Harold Everett Scott... ................ .. .. November 13, 1969 ....
. . .......... 522
Robert George Jamieson ..... ............... November 13, 1969. .....
. 540

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
R•eo1rfi&1J -4 ite Prlll~fMl R1'4Jions w;1b th•

GrMNI LoJ1• of C.Ji/ONJu

Argentina:
Marcial Ruiz Torres, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina

.Austria:
Hans Kloser Homma, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse -12, Vienna 1, Austria
Belgium:
Grand Secretary,
265 Rue Royale, Brussels 3, Belgium.
BoliYlas
Bernardo Hurtado Navarro, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.

Brasil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Joaqulm Gomes Loureiro, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, A.mazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Brasilia
Gr. Chancellor of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1, 128, Brasilia, D. F., Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Arnaldo Pertence, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 15, Belo Horizonte, Minas Geraa, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Ildefonso P. Guimaraes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil
Grand Lodge of Parana
Antonio Andre Jansson, Gr. Secty.-Chancellor
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Pernambuco
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 1415, Recife, Pemambuco, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Manoel Rodrigues dos Santos, Grand Secretary
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal No. 10, T·e resina, Piaul, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Setembrino L. S. Hoerhan n, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal D-33, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Wilson Achilles da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Goias
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 332, Goiana, Estado de Goias, Brazil, S. A.

483

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Grand Lodge of the State of Guanabara
Joseph Isaac Kac, Grand Secretary Foreign Office
Caixa Postal 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Guanabara, Brazil, S . A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
~Silva Antunes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Erwin Seignemartin, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
Av Brigadeiro Luis Antonio 1195, Apt. 72, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Walter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Kurt Max Hauser, Grand Secty.
Caixa Postal 663, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Rubens Cardoso, Gr. Secty. RRel. Int.
Caixa Postal 130, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil.
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.,
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil.
Canadas
AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
830 - 12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.

British ColumblaJ . H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St., Vancouver 2, B. C.
Canada-(Province of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.,
P . 0. Drawer 217, Hamilton 2, Ontario.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson. Grand Secty.,
420 Corydon Ave., Winnipeg 13, Manitoba.
New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, Saint John, New Brunswick
Nova ScotlaHarold F. Sipprell1 Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.
P.O. Box 337, Charlottetown, P . E. I.
QuebecW. Gordon Parker, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 25, Quebec.
SaskatchewanT. M. Spencer, Grand Secty.,
1930 Lorne St., Regina, Saskatchewan.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Cblle1
Rene Court Portales, Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
Colombla1
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Victor M. Osorio, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aero 6672, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.

Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Rafael Toscano Ospino, Grand Secty.
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombia, S .A.
Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Armando Arruzola, Grand Secty,
Carrera 43, No. 90-106, Barranquilla, Colombia, S. A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
Serenisima Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Fernando Luis, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-69, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box Y, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba:
J ose Alvarez Rivera Maldonado, Grand Secretary
Apartado 72, La Habana
Denmark:
National Grand LodgeE. Hess Thaysen, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic:
Alfredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 209, Santo Domingo, Dominican R epublic.
Ecuadors
Fernando Febres Corderov, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
El Salndor (Cuacatlanh
Humberto Acosta, Grand Secty.,
Sa Avenida Sur No. 126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
EnglandI
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.
Freemasons Hall, Great Queen St., London, England.

485

486

PROCEEDINGS 01' THE

Finland:
Martti V. Mustakallio, Grand Secty.,
Kasarmikatu 16D, Helsinki 13, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
Pierre Mariel, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, 92 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
Friedrich Helle r, Grand Secty.,
Emser Str. 12-13, 1 Berlin 31, Germany
Greece:
Evanghelos Macrymichalos, Grand Secty.,
Acharnon 19, Athens 109, Greece.
Guatemala:
Lauro A. Rivera, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 34, Guatemala City, C. A.
Honduras1
Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 135-C, Tegucigalpa, D. C., Honduras, C. A.
Iceland:
Otto B. Arnar, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
P. M. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 681, New Delhi l, India.
Iran:
Ahmad Aliabadi, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 11-1777, Tehran, Iran.
Ireland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin 2, Ireland.
brael:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Joseph Bar-Ner, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italyz
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Giuseppe Telaro Campagna, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome.

GRA ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Me.x ico
Reginald E. Dobson, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 1226, Guernavaca, Morelos, Mexico
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Pedro Lugo Gil, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 134, Tijuana, Baja California
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Rigoberto Trevino A., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Grand Secty.,
.
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mex1ro
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of TamaulipRs
Crescenciano Juarez C., Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Un lda Mexicans
Marcial Fernandez Vazqu ez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mex.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Jorge A. Hernandez Montes, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico 1, D. F.
Netherlandar
Grootoosten der Nederlanden (the Grand East of the Netherlands),
W. Veenstra, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluwelen Burgwal, The Hague.
N - South Walesz
United Grand u;dge of New South Wales,
R. H. Burley, Grand Secty.,
281 Castlereagh St., Sydney, N.S.W.

New Zealand:
P. J. Oliver, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 6439, Wellington C. 2, New Zealand.

Nicaragua:
Eli Tablada Solis, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Harald Storkson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo 1, Norway.
Panama:
Francisco Munos Carzola, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.

Japan
Nohea 0. A. Peck, Grand Secty.,
No.13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Cho, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan

Paraguay:
Grand Secretary
_
Casilla Correo 1178, Asunc10n, Paraguay, S. A.

Luxembourg:
Leon Hamus, Grand Secty.,
Case Postale No. 260, Luxembourg-ville, Luxembourg.

Perui
Alberto Horny Wobbe, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 587, Lima. Peru.

487

488

PROC EEDI NGS OP THE

Phll ippi nn:
Este ban Mun arriz , Gran d Sect y
1440 San Marc elino , Man na;'P . L
Puer to Rico t
y
Juan L . Mato s-Ci ntron Gran d Sectto"'
P.O . Box 8385, Sa~turce, Puer Rico.
Oue ensla nd:
W. P. Walk er, Gran d Sect y.,
Box 2204, G. P . 0., Bris bane , Aust ralia .
Scot land :

Alex ande r F . Buch an, Gran d Sect y.,
96 Geo rge St., Edin burg h, 2, Scot land
Sout hern Afri ca:
W. Grah am Vos, Gran d Sect y.,
.
P. 0. Box 4999, Joha nnes burg, So . A1nca.
Sout h Auat ralia s
J . H. R. Gard e, Gran d Sect y.,
aide, So. Aust rali
Free maso ns' Hall , Nort h Terr ace, Adel
a.
Swe den:
Sigf rid. V. Brin ck, Gran d Sect y.,
Stoc khol m Swe d
Frun urar eord en. Blas ieho hnsg atan 6,
en
•
Swit zerla nd:
Gran d Lodg e Alpi na
Alfr ed Roesli, G;an d Sect y
.
Brun ngas se 30, 3000 Bern e,''sw itzer land
Tasm ania :
A. J. Barr en, Gran d Sect y
.
44 Harr ingto n St., Hob art, Tasm ania
Turk ey:
Nafi z Ekem en, Gran d Sect y
Turk ey.
25 Nuru.ziya Soka k, Bey~glu, Istan bul,
Vene suela 1
(Rep. of Vene zuela )
Ram on Fern ande z Pere z Gran d Sect y zuela.
Apa rtado de Corr eos 927; Cara cas, Ve~~
Vict oria:
Unit ed Gran d Lodg e,
Garn ett Jack son, Acti ng Gr Sect y ·· A t .
300 Albe rt St., East Melbou~e 3002, u s ra1ia.
Wes tern Aust ralia :
D. K. Saw yer, Gran d Sect y
ralia.
G.P. 0. Box D-177, Pert h, Wes tern Aust

GRA ND LODGE OP CALI FORN IA

489

ALP HA BET ICA L US T OF LODGES
A
Abel l (146) , Ukia h.
Acal anes (723), Lafa yette .
Acor n (494), Oakl and.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F . E. Irwi n (645 ), San Pedr o.
Alam eda (167), Frem ont.
Alam o (122) , Wal nut Cree k.
Alba ny (686), Alba ny.
Albe rt Pike (484), Haw thor ne.
Alca traz (244), Oakl and.
Alex ande r Grah am Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alex ande r Ham ilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alex andr ia (531) , San Fran cisco.
Alha mbra (322), Alha mbra .
Alisa] (321), Plea sant on.
All State s (593) , Long Beac h.
Alph a (431), Rich mon d.
Alta (333), Brid ge port.
Alta dena (678), Alta dena . h.
A!ta Lom a (643), Long Beac
Alta Vist a-M ount Vern on (464) ,
San Fra ncisco.
Altu ras (248), Altu ras.
Ama dor (65), Jack son.
Ame rica (475), Los Ang eles.
Ame rican Rive r (795), Fols om

Ami ty-S eal Rock (370),
San Fran cisco .
Ana capa (710), Oxn ard.
Anah eim (207 ), Anah eim.
Anc hor (273) , Com pton .
Ange les Mes a (625) , Haw thorn e.
Anti och (175 ), Anti och.
Apol lo (396), Alam eda.
Arab ic (763), Los Ange les.
Arbu ckle (182), Arbu ckle .
Arca dia (547 ), Arca dia.
Arca ta (106), Arca ta.
Argo naut -Arg onne (461),
San Fran cisco .
Arlin gton (414), Los Angeles.
Arro yo (274 ) , Arro yo Gran de.
Arte sia (377), Arte sia.
Arvi n (738), Arvi n.
Ascot (538), Torr ance.
Ashl and (798), San Lore nzo.
Ashlar (306) , Colt on.
Atas cadero (493), Atas cade ro.
Athe ns (228), Davi s.
Atw ater (622 ), Los Ang eles.
Avenal (772 ), Avenal.
Azu re (533), Full erton .
Azus a (305), Azus a.

8
Bake rsfie ld (224) , Bake rsfie ld.
Balder (393), San Fran cisco. Park.
Bald win Park (660), Bald win
Bars tow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526), San Fran cisco .
Bay View (401), Oak land. Cam p.
Bear Mou ntain (76), Ang els
Bell (483) , Bell
Bellflowe r (523) , Bell flow er.

Belm ont Shor e (716). Long Beac h.
Belv eder e Sunr ise (522),
Mon terey Park .
Bene vole nce (631 ), Los Ang eles.
Beni cia (5), Beni cia.
Benj . Fran klin (509 ), Bev erly Hills.
Cahu enga (513), Holl ywo od.
Cala vera s (78), San And reas .
Cale doni a (486), Bak ersfi eld.
Cale xico (412), Cale xico .
Cali forn ia (1), San Fran cisco .
Cali stog a (233), Cali stog a.
Call ayom i (282), Mid dleto wn.
Cam arill o (824), Cam arill o.
Cam ellia (805), Tem ple City .
Can by Cros s (679), Tule lake .
Cano ga (611), Cano ga Park .

Berkeley (363); Berk eley .
.
Beve rly Hills (528) , Be verly Hills
B!g Bear (617), Big Bear Lake. h.
Bixb y Kno lls (699), Long Beac
Blac kmer (442 ), San Diego. o.
Blue Lake s (714), San Brun
Blyt he (473), Blyt he.
Boron (822), Boro n.
Braw ley (402), Braw ley.
Bren twoo d (345), Bren twood.
Broo klyn (225 ), Oakl and.
Buckeye (195), Win ters.
Buen a Park (357), Buen a Park .
Burb ank (406 ), Burb ank.
Burl inga me (400) , Burl inga me.

c

Capi tal City (499), Sacr ame nto.
Carm el (680), Carm el
Carm elita (599), Pasa dena .
Carp inter ia (444}, Carp inter ia.
Carq uine z (337), Croc kett.
Cast ro Vall ey (713), Cast ro Vall ey
Cata lina Islan d (524) , Aval on.
Cent enni al (729), Com pton .
Cent er (465 ), Fres no.
Cent ral Cali forn ia Rese arcb Lodg e,
Fres no

490

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

Channel (757), Stockton.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Charity {362), Campbell.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Chateau Thierry (569), Castro Valley. Concord (117) , Sacramento.
Chico {111), Chico.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks.
Chino Valley {427), Chino.
Confidence (203), Castroville.
Chowchilla {485). Chowchilla.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Chula Vista {626), Chula Vista.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Citro! (656), Brea.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Clairemont Mesa (799), San Diego.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Claude H. Morrison (747),
Covina (334), Covina.
Chula Vista.
Cra!tsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clear Lake (183). Lower Lake.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Clovis {417), Clovis.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Coalinga (387) , Coalinga.
Culver City (467), Culver City.
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Torrance.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220) Downey.
Drytown (174). Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

Francis K. Shattuck (571), El Cerrito.
Frank S. Land (819), Los Angeles.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497)J. Oakland.
Fresno (247), !'Tesno.
Friendshjp (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Glll"Van:r.a (492) , Los Angeles.
Gateway (821), Seaside.
Gemini (825), Fremont.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Rosamond.
Georgetown (25) , Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angele•.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate Speranza (30),
San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), Granada Hills.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Great Lights (818), Sunnyvale.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596). South Gate.

H

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759). Rico Rivera
East Bay (489), Orinda.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Fortuna.
Eel River (147),
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
Cajon.
El
(576),
El Cajon Valley
Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.

F
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629) , Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far Weit (673), San F.r ancisco

Florence (649), Walnut Park.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564) Oakland.
l"orhe1town, {50), Forbeatown.
Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.

Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Pointe (779), Long Beach.

491

Highland (748), Highland.
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles .
Harmony (164) , Sierra City.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Hornitos (98), Homitos.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry Morse Stephens (541), Berkeley.Howard (37), Yreka .
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles.
Hunters Point Naval (706),
He.r itage (764), North Hollywood.
San Francisco.
Hermann (127), San Francisco.
Huntington Beach (380),
Hermosa (557), Manhattan Beach.
Huntington Beach.
Hesperian (264) , Santa Maria.

I
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
lllinoistown (51), Colfax.
Inyo (221), Independence.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest. Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.

492

PROCEEDINGS OP nrn

G!i AND LODGE OF CALIPORN l.l\

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

J
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.
James A Foshay (641),
Playa del Rey.
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
Jordan (654), Walnut Park.
James Madison (572), Playa del Rey. Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ann.
Jewel (374) , San Francisco.
Justice (549), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.

K
Kauai (589), Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Kern. River Valley (U.D.), Kem ville.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, Hawaii.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's Seaport (260),
San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.
Koolau (801), Kaneohe, Hawaii.

L
Lemon Grove (736), Lemon Grove.
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
La Canada (739), La Crescenta.
Honolulu, Hawaii.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Lexington (104), El Monte.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna B each (672), Laguna Beach. Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
La J olla (518), La Jolla.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingston (658), Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728), Bellflower.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Lancaster (437) , Lancaster.
Los Alamitos (809), Seal Beach
Landmark (253), Esparto.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco. Los Altos (712), Los Altos.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
La Puente (446), La Puente.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton.
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

M
Maccabee (823), Rosemead.
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Ba rbara.
Magnolia Park (715), Burbank.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manch est er (585), Los Angeles.
Manhatta n (817), Manhattan Beach.
Maricopa (434), Maricopa .
Marin (191), San Rafael.

Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Mar Vista (820), Newport B each.
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, Hawaii.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Maya (793), Los Angeles
McCloud (430), McCloud.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Melrose (602), Hollywood.
Mendocino (179). Mendocino.

493

Monterey (217), Monterey.
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Moreno Valley (804), Sunnymead
Merced (749), Merced.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Merid ian (667), Glendale.
Morningside Park (742), lnglewood.
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
Meudell (695), Bakersfield.
.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheun .
.
F
) s
(
·
s
Mil"t
1
570
Downieville.
(18),
Shade
Mountain
rancISco.
' an
ary erv1ce .
.
Mountain View (194),
M~llbrae (792), M1U~rae.
Mountain View.
M~ll Valle~ (356), Mill Valley.
Mount Baldy (815), Ontario.
M~ni:ral Kmg (720). Visalia.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
M~ss~on 069), San Francisco.
Mount Jackson (295), Guerneville.
M~ss1on Bay (771), San Diego.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Mount Olive (506), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), M?desto.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Moj~ve (783), MoJave.
Mount Shasta (281), Anderson.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Mt. Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Mon.eta (405), Los Angeles.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altadena
Monrovia (308) , Monrovia.
Montebello (451), Montebello.

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87) , Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

Northern California Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
N orwalk (315) , Norwalk.

0
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22). San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), Santa Monica.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai
Old West (813), Newhall.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Corning.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Orien tal (144), San Francisco.
Orinda (521), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro ( 110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angeles.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
Palm Desert (826), Palm Desert.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.

Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
P alos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272) , Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.

494

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598).
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.
Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plaza de Los Angeles (814),
Los Angeles.

Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), Sacramento
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303), Porterville.
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R
Ramona (457), Monterey Park.
Reading (254), Redding.
Redlands (300), Redlands.
R. E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168). Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
R eseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Richmond (375), San Francisco.
Rim of the World (7 11), Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208). Rio Vista
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
San J oaquin (19), Stockton.
Saint Elmo (697) Oakland.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Saint Helena (93). St. Helena.
San Juan (732), F air Oaks.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
San Antonio (694), Bell.
Boulder Creek.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. San Marino (685), San Marino.
San Mateo (226), San Mateo.
San Buenaventura (214), Ventura.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Pedro (332), San Pedro.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dieguito (775), Cardi.ff-by-theSea. San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Santa Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Francisco-Victory (360),
Santa Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
San Francisco.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Sanger (316), Sanger.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

495

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa P aula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701), Solvang.
Scepter (808), West Sacramento.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Seafaring (708), Nev.-port Beach.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277), Selma.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594), Long Beach.
Sierra (788), Oakhurst.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
Silverado (782), Napa.
Silver Cord (505), Santa An-.i.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415)1 Hollywood.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.

Sojourner (607), Duarte.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Soquel (746), Soquel
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
Los Angeles.
Southe.r n California Research
Lodge, Los Angeles.
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
South Park (563), Hawthorne.
South Pasadena (367),
South P asadena.
South San Francisco (212), Daly City.
South West (283), National City.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunset (352) Los Angeles.
Surprise v-;;ney (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
·
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Tem blor (477), Fellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gabilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triad (812), Montebello.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741 ), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Torrance.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.

Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.

496

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Ventas-Jonatha n (545),
San Francisco.
Vermont Square (515), Inglewood
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victoria Palms (810), R iverside.

Victorville (634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii
Warren G. Harding (579),
Sacramento
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Playa del Rey.
West Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
Los Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westminster.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William B. Ogden (816), Hollywood.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodland Hills (811), Canoga Park.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), Walnut Park

Yosemite (99), Mereed.
Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley.

z
Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCE MENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason," copies of which have been sent
to each Grand Lodge. This program will be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly
and each copy carries additional reviews. Hence,
they do not appear in these Proceedings.

497

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

499

INDEX FOR 1969
A
Additions and Replacements Reserve Homes
342. 378
Audit ·-----··--·-·-··--········----··---····------- ··-'.··--- ·--····-···--·········-···-·····-·········
....75, 448
Affiliation Fees Tabulated -···--···-···-··-····-----·······----·· ·-···--· · ··--·········---···
Affiliation-Notice to Lodge Where Membership
Is Held Prior to Readi ng Petition
Resolution Presented ······-··---·-····----·-··----········· ----·-·-----····-·--·---··--··-----··--··----·- 303
Legislation ·--··-------- ·-··----·-·----······------··-···---·-· ··-··--·----··---····-··----·····-·--·-···-·····----·· 304
Alphabet ical List of Lodges·····------·····--·---------- --·---------·----- ----------·······--·-··---------·-·-- 489
Amendments to By-Laws
Reported by Grand Secretary (Exhibit B) ----··----···--·-···-··-·------····--------···-- 81
Approve d by Committee ······--·--·······--·---··--·---·--·······-·····-------···--·-·-········--·····- 83
Anniversaries of Lodges ··---·------···········-··········-····---------------······-----···--------·-··-------··· 63
Annual Election ·-----·-----------·-·····---····-·······---······---··-····----···--·········---·-·····-----···-·--····· 320
Annual Returns
Audit ············-··-············· ···-···········-···········-··--------·-· ····---··------·······-······-··-·······-····- 334
Details by Lodges ···········----·········-·--···-···-·······-····· ······· ········· ··-······---·······-------··· 448
Membership Reported ---··-········-------·-···--·--····-·--------·-----··---------- -·---------····------·· 75
Appendix
General _. --------. ________ ..... ______ _____ ... ------------. _______ .·--. _______ ._______ ------------ ________ .___.... ______ 413
Special --- ·-···------···-------- ····· ·· ··································· ············ ··· ·····-··--- ········---· -······ 323
Applica tion Fees T abulated --·····-··-···-························-······---···---·-·····--····-·-···-·--·-···· 448
Appointments
For Year 1968-69 ---·--···-·--·· ---·--·······-··--···------·-··--·-····-·-------····------·-··---······---··-·· 320
F or Commu nication ··········--·-·····-··- ·-·····--·-···----······· ·---·-·····-····· ··-··············--·-· ···
4
Trustees for Masonic Homes ..... ....... ... ....................................... 104. 321, 422
Trustees for Memorial Temple ................... ................................... 147, 321, 423
Committees and Constitutional Boards ..................... .......... ...... .414, 418 , 421
Appropriations, Supplemental
Reported --· -·---·----················-····-------- ·······--·-·····-·····--- -··-············--............. 70
Approved ..... .......:..
........................... --······ . .. ............ .
........312. 319
Auditor's Report --·····-----··---- ······--------···---- -- ·--·-···-- -----········---- ........ 330, 331 , 332
Atkinson Trust Fund ···············---- -···----- -· ····----········----- ·-·----·-·····--·············336, 342, 351
Attendance
Listed (Registration and Mileage Payments) ----···-····---··---·-------·---·····-···--- 424
Reported -··················-·················----------··------··· ··········· ··------·····----- ················ ····--- 212
Auditing Comm ittee, Report of -··········-··············--··--·-·········--------···-----·-···-·----·---·- 211
Audits
1969 Return s ········-·-------- ------····························----·---·--······------····------·-·····---------- 334
Grand L odge ........... ---····-··· ·-----------·-··------·····--····· ··-···················· ----·-··········· · 324
Mas onic F oundation ·------·--·--·-------··--·-----·-·--·--------·-------·--------···---------··· ----------- 392
Masonic Homes -·············--···-------· ········-- ........
.. .... ... ..... ...
336
Memorial Tem p le ······--·········-------····---················-·--····----·····------······-·--·----·-----· 387

B
Bequests-Mas onic Homes Endowment Fund ------·-·--·-··----------·-----------··--·-··-·· 112
Biography, Robert A. Crigler -·-----·········-··--·---·---- ··· ······ ·········- ........ .... .......... ...... iii
Blackmer Lodge, Grand Master's Remarks ---·-··----·····-··-·······-······--··-----·-··------- 46
Blood Banks
Grand Master's Comments ····------·····----·-···--·--------···-----·------------·-----·-·-···--·-·-- 45
Report of S pecial Committee -··----·--·--·-·······--··--·-·------------··············-··--·-------- 245
Unfinished Business ···········-····----------·------··-"--···················-----·-·······-·--74, 245, 250
Board of Control
Rep ort of···-···----················-··--·····-----········-----··············-····-··-······· ·········· ··· ·····--·---- 190
Members Listed ------·------- -------·······-····· ·-·························· ········---··-·······--- --··-----· 421
Grand Master's Comments ---······---------------------···-----·--------·-···----·····-··--·······--- 46

500

501

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

Board of Library Commissioners (See Library and Museum)
Boards of Relief
Grand Master's Comments ................................. ······························-··········· 46
Board of Control Comments ···························-··········································· 190
Report of Special Committee ......................................................................... 242
Unfinished Business ....................................................................................74, 245
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit ........................................... ............. 336, 342, 345
Budget
Appropriations, 1969-70 ···················································-············-··········314, 317
Burt Trust Fund ·······-··········································-···································336, 342, 350
By-Laws
Amendments Submitted ···········································-··································· 81
Report of Committee ···················································-······-··························· 83

Code Commission, Report of ................................................................................ 211
Code Revision
Report of Special Committee ......................... ...... ........................... ..... .. ... 225
Grand Master's Recommendation ................................................................ 44
Action by Grand Lodge ........... .... ...... .. .... ....
. .. .. ... ..... . ... ..... .. ....... 55
Unfinished Business from 1968 ...... .............. .. ... .... ..... .. .... ........... .... 73, 225
Columbia Temple, Report of Committee ............................................................ 156
Commercialism-Policy Manual
Resolution Presented ·-········-·········································································· 278
Legislation .................................. ......... ... .. .. ........
........... 280
Commercialism, Report of Committee ................................................................ 213
Committee Appointments
By Grand Master --·······························..·····-·······························42, 44, 45, 51
For Communication ........................................................................................ 4
For 1969-70 ......................... .................................. ....... ..................... ... .......... .... 414
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Conference of Grand Masters of North America
Gra nd Master's Comm ents ............................................................................ 42
Consolidations of Lodges
Report of Grand Secr etary ....... ...... ........... ... ...... ........................ ......... ...... 74
Report of Committee on Charters ................................................................ 205
Constituent Lodges Listed
Alphabeticaily •................................................................................................. 489
Numerically ...................................................................................................... 448
Constitution Observance
Grand Master's Proclam ation ...................................................................... 69
Report of Committee ........................................................................................ 186
Constitu tion of Lodges ............................................................................................ 58
Constitutional Boards .............................................................................................. 421
Contributions
Chr istmas and Ent ertainment Reserve ...................... ........................ .......... 410
Endow ment Fund .................................. ................... .............. ... . .... 113, 118, 128
Received from Lodges .................................................................................... 333
Special Reserves ......... .. .. .. ... ..... ... ..... ................................................................. 408
Contribu tions to Endowment Fund in Lieu of Flowers
to Ill Brother ·
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 226
Legislation .............................. ......... .... .. .. ....... .......... ............. ...... .... .... ......... ...... 227
Unfinished Business from 1968 ................................................................ 74, 226
Copyright Notice ............................................................. ......................................... 1
Cornerstone Ceremonies, Special Communications ... ........ .... ......................... 58
Correspondence Committee
Report of ............................................................................................................ 157
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges ... .... ........ ............................. 497
Covina Home
Report of Superintendent .............................................................................. 110
Report of Trustees ......... ................................................................................... 104
Residents Listed ...................................................... ................... ....................... 406
Covina Reserve Audit ............................................ ......................... .... ..... 342, 379
Covina Entertainment Reserve Audit ........... .............................. .......342, 382
New Construction .......................................................................... ............ 105, 110
Credentials, Repor t of Committee ........................................................................ 212
Crigler, Rober t A., Grand Master
Photograph ........................................................................................................ ii
Biography ................. ... ......... .................. .... ............................... .................... ...... iii
Ap~o!n tments for Commu nication............. .......................... .......... .... .......... .
4
Dec1s1ons ................................... ................................ .......... ................................. 48
Lod ges Constituted .......................................................................................... 58

c
California Freemason
Finance Committee Comments ....................... ............................................. 311
Per Capita .......................................................................................... 154, 317, 319
Publication Board, Report of ............................................... ........................... 154
California Masonic Code (See Code Revision)
California Masonic Foundation
Audit .......................................................................... ..... ..................................... 392
Report of Directors ·····································-··········································-······· 164
Directors Listed ................................................................................. .............. . 423
Clubhouses, Foundation Directors' Comments ........................................ 165
Finance Committee Comments .................................................................. 312
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Audit .................................................................................................. .................. 387
Officers and Trustees ........................................................................................ 423
Resolution Presented ......... .......................................... ..................................... 264
Action by Grand Lodge .................................................................................. 266
Trustees Appointed and Terms ..............................................................147, 321
Trustees Report ···-··········-··················-·············. ....... ........... ........................ ... 14 7
Gold Key ............................................................................................................ 151
Calling Up Procedures (Gavels u sed listed at start of each session)
Cemeteries (Masonic), Report of Committee ···························-······················· 184
Centennials ···························································································-··················· 63
Certain Expenses of Corner stone Ceremonies
to Be Assumed by Grand Lodge
Resolution Presented ·····························-··························-··························· 289
Legislation ·············································-··················-······································· 291
Certification ···················-·······-················-···························· .. ··························-······· v
Change Name of Masonic Boards of Relief
Resolution Presented ···························-··-··········-··············-··························· 273
Legislation ···························-··········-······-·-······················································· 274
Change Name of Masonic Education Committee
and Make It a Standing Committee
Resolution Presented ···················-··································································· 262
Legislation ......................................................... .................... .... ........... .............. 264
Change Time of Stated Meeting
R esolution Presented ........................................................................................ 258
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 260
Changes of Meeting Place
Report by Grand Secretary ......................................................................74, 82
Report of Committee on By-Laws ............................................................ 83, 85
Report of Committee on Charters ···············-···························-················-·· 205
Charters
Report of Committee ···············--······--···--·-·······················-······-··············--······ 204
Granted ·································································· ........ ...································- 205
Clubhouses (See California Masonic Foundation) ............................................ 164

~e;;1~~ati·o·M ··.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·_·.-.~---~·.-.-_·_·_-_·_-_-_·_·_·_·_·_-_·.·..-.·.·_-_-_-_·_·_·_-__-_-.·_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_·_·: .'.·..·:.·:.-6·5-,··57;··ea; ~~

~!~~~:d':i11tfonr:i~~~~~-~~~~-s:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::42;··44;··45; ~~

502

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS O F THE

Special Ceremonies .......................................................................................... 58
Special Communications ................................................................................ 58
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions ...................................................... 37, 42, 63

D
Decoto Home (Union City)
Report of Superintendent.............. ................................................................. 108
Report of Trustees.............................................................................................. 104
Residents Listed ................................................................................................ 397
Decoto Reserve Audit .......................................................... ...................... 342, 380
Decoto Entertainment Reserve Audit..................................................342, 382
Dedications-Special Ceremonies ........................................................................ 58
Degree Fees Tabulated ......................................................................................76, 448
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges ........................................................................................ 448
Totals Reported ................................................................................................ 76
Devotional Service .................................................................................................... 5
Discretionary Expendit ures
Resolution Presente d ...................................................................................... 291
Legislation .......................................................... ................................................ 292
Dispensations
New Lodges ........................................................................................................ 74
Miscellaneous .................................................................................................... 80
Approved .......................................................... ............................................81, 204
Display Masonic Emblems
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 288
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 289

Dist~~!~:~dG8;!~d Lodge.................................................................................. 35

Attendance Listed ............................................................................................ 34
Distribution Committee
Appointment .......................................................... ............................................ 4
Report of ............................................................................................................ 146
Dues

~~
~~~~~o~~/~~oi;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:'. 448

Tabulation by Lodges........................................................................................

E
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization,
April 18 A.L. 5850......................................................... ..................................... 472
Election of Officers.................................................................................................... 320
Endowment Board
Composition of Board ........................................................................................ 422
Report of ............................................................................................................ 112
Endowment and Trust Funds Audit ............................................................336, 342
Endowment Month (See Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund)
Entertainment Reserve Audit... .......................................................................342, 382
Eulogies ...................................................................................................................... 13
Expand the Duties of Boards of Relief
Resolution Presented .......................................................... ............................ 274
Legislation ··--·····································································································- 276
Expense Claims, Rules and Regulations .............................................................. 235
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations.......................................................... 465

503

F
Fees for Degrees

81
~mendments to By-Laws..................... ............... ..................
T ciion by Grand Lodge....... ................... ... .......... .......... ......... ::::::::::·::::::::::::::: 85
Fees f~r ~~~~e~:__~~~~~rieNioi·a·y;·······-······················································· ·· 76 • 44 8
~!sf1~tfi~n Presented ........................................................................................302

F~fty Y~ar Burro;;.~·-(see·v--e·~~a;;_·a~·i'to~~)"- ·························································· 303
~~;~~~ ~~~~g~:~~~~~rt of.............................. ................................................. 311

~~~~ ~~ ca'r~::JlY.,~~g~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::: ~!~

Fli t T mshed Busine~s from 1968................................................. ................ 74, 231
Fo~eig;~i~a~dL~~~~it... ............................ .............. ...... ......................... 336, 342, 348
~~port of Committee on R ecogn ition .......................................................... .. 170
2
Form ~f A~:ir~~t1~~ f~r b~~;~~;tio~ofi~i·e·~~y··· ....... ...······ ·· ······ ··· ····················· 483
Resolution Present ed........................................................................................ 300
302
Legislation .....................................
Fundamenta l Principles of Freem aso·~~:Y=c~~-~~~i~~tio;;,······ ·······················
Grand Master's Comments
42
215
Fun!~J?~:r~fceCommittee......... .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::·:·:···········:··::·:: :
~~h~tion Presented. ............................ ......................... ............ .............. .

rawn .................................... ...... .
Grand Lectur er's Comments ........ . .. .
I

306
307

102

G

g:~:;~I ~;~e~~~~~:.:.~-~~~~~~-~~:::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::························ 41~
g~~~~ ~~c~~~~~· Devotional Service ............................................::::::::::::::::::::::::

5

Candidate Coaching............................... ... ..... . ........... ..... ....... .... ...... .... ......

100

~~~~~~~+::: : : : :: i i
GJC~~:;,~~~~~~ :· :.• •· · ·· :·· :• · ··· · ···· · · · ··· J!
Grand Lodge Summary of Receipts, Expenses and Capital Charges.......... 71
34
Grand Lodges Represented...................................................................................
···
Grand Master (See Crigler, Robert A.)
Grand Oration ............................................................................................................ 175
g~:~ ~~::~~~· Report of.................................................................................... 73
Report of .......................................... ............................. .. .
·· ··············· ·
Finance Committee Comments.......
Grand Lodge-Summary of Receip·t;··a:;.;a·· :b"i~ibui:seme~~::::::::····
Grievances, Committee on

70

312
71

~Fa11e~~;~·r:iiii~<l-"CE:~h'ff·c):::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::........ ~~

504

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

H
Homes (See Masonic Homes)
Home Statistics
Investments ·---------···---------·-----·---··-·-···-----··-- ··----------··---------- ···---··-·-------·-·----· ------ 353
Residents Listed -----------------·-----·-·--·-------·----·-----------··--·--------·------·-·-·------··- ·397, 406
Statement of Expenses ........---·--------·---------·---------------- ------------·-·---·--········------··-- 383
Statements of Reserves for Special Purposes... -·--··-----------·------------·---·---·---- 378
Honor Roll (Endowment Fund>-------··---·---·----------- -·-···--····----····· .. --·-··---·-- ...... 113, 128

GRANO LODGE OP CALIPOR N IJ\

505

Section 175 (Expenses of Grand Officers)

f:~~i~tr~~p~-~~~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· ----··-····--·--···:-:::::::::::·::·:·: ·---:::::::::·:· ~1~

Section 176 (Expenses of other officers)

--

te~Ts~~tioe~t-.:.~~~-~-~=~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.:: g}}
Section 192 (Standing Committees)

. : : : : : : : : : ::::: :::: : :::·_: : : : : : : :: ::: : :: ::: :: : ~i~

~i~~ti~~t__:.~~~-~-~=~
Section 193 (Committee on Finance)

t~i~~o~t-=-~~~~-~ =~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~1~

~~f:1~~~~ii Ldro°J;~;;~-s:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: j~~

Institution of Lodges...------·--·--- --··------·-------·---··-·--·-----·--------------·-------······-----··-- ----59, 204
Insurance Committee, Report of______··---------···-·----··--·---·-···---·---·-----·-·-··---·---·---------- 209
Investment Committee, Report of.....----------·----------···--·---··---···-·-·--··-·····----·- ·-----··-·· 140
Investments
Consolidated Portfolio -·--··-·----·--··------···········-·--- -··-·------··-·-----------·---·------·-·----· 142

~~~~~~f~es-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
J

Jurisprudence, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred
to committee.)

K
Kern River Valley Lodge U.D.
Instituted ·-·---------··--·------··--·····--·--· ···-···-------··-----------------·····- -·-·----·-·------------··-59, 204
Dispensation Continued -····---------------··----------------- -·-·-------··----------------····---··----· 204

L
Legislation Proposed
Section 32.1 (Common disaster)

ter1J~~oe:t.~~~~~-~~~--~:-.::::::::::·_·_:::::::::::::::::::·.-.::~::·_::::::::::·_:::::::::·.::::::::::::: ~g~

Section 39 (Manner of voting)
Amendment Proposed ·--·----··---··--------------------------···············--------------········ 255
Legislation ···-··-···-···-·-··-----------------·· ·-·-·-------------------·--·-··-------- -···------·----·-·--· 255
Section 137 (Form of request to perform ceremonies)
New Legislation Proposed..........---··-----·--··---------·------··------ ····-·-·----·-·------ 289
Legislation ·-·----·-----·--·-·-----------------·- --------·--------------·---------------------------·-------· 291
Section 146 (Duties of Grand Treasurer)

~is!~ti;~t-~~~-~~~--:::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 207 (Audit Committee)
~e~ Le_gislation Proposed..... ------------··-·---·--·----·---------------·---·-·-------------- 310
egis 1at1on ·········-························--·····--····--········---·--·-·-·····--··· ···----------···-·--· 311
Section 221 (Appointment and Powers)

. :::: : : : : : : : : ::: : : : : :: : : :: :::: :::::::: : : : ::: : ~~i

t~i2~ti~t__:.~~~-~-~=~
Section 226 (Appointment and Powers)

t:J~~~~t-~~~:..~.~=~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~i

Section 231 (Appointment of Directors)

f!~~fat~~o~~==~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 232 (Board of Directors and Title to Property)

f!~~faJ~~p~~=~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::: ~~~

Section 233 (Organization of the Board)

f!~~~~tf~~p~~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 234 (Annual Reports)

f!~i~i~tf~~p~==~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 236 (Appointment of Dir ectors)
Repeal Proposed ··--··--·········--·····-··-···--···--··-·----·----------------·-·-··-··--------------- 266
Legislation ··············----······-·········---·- ········-··--·----··-··--·-----··-··-·--····--·----·--··-·· 267
Section 237 (Board of Directors and Title to Property)

. : : : : ::: : : : : : : : : : : : : ::::: : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~~

~=~~t~tr~~p~~=~

Section 238 (Organization of Board)

f:~~i~tf~~p~~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

Section 239 (Annual Reports)

f!E~i~tf~~p~~=~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

Section 248 (Expenses)

~=~~!~tf~~p~:~~--:::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Section 264.1 (Withdrawal of Lodges from Boards of Relief)

r::;isl~i~~l~~~~~---~~~~~-~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g

Section 266 (Expenses)

Section 150 (Duties of Grand Secretary)
Amendment Proposed ····----·-···-----------·--------- ---··-··-·-··--- ···--·--··-·· ·------- ·45, 310
Legislation ·····--·····-·-----------··--··-------·--· -----·--- -···-·- ·· --·-----··-··--·-· ···-·-·-·---- ·56, 311
Section 153 (Official bond)

Section 319 (Restrictions as to Masonic intercourse)

Section 161 (Duties of Inspectors)
Amendment Proposed ···---------·-··················-···-----······-··········-------··-··260, 310
Legislation ···-·-·····-·--·················-·······-------··-----·····················------········-261, 311

Section 324.2 (Serving of liquor at social functions)
~e~ Lf'.gislation Proposed ...------------------·····----···------·-·------···-----------·------- 228
egislation ···-·---------------··--······-·--··--·----·········-------------·--·--·-···-··---·---·---------·· 229

~fsl~oe~t--~~~~~-~~---:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~i

~!E~t~tf~~p~-~=~--::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::: ~li

r!:talto~t=~-~:--~~~~~-~-~:::::::::: . :::::::::.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

506

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Section 326 (Sunday meetings)
Repeal Proposed ···········································-···---················---··················· 281
Legislation .................. .................................................. .. .............................. 282
Section 333 (Commercial ventures)

t~ist~ti;:t ~~~~-~-~~~

..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
..
Section 334 (Advertising-publications)

~~!

t~i~~ti;;t_~~~-~-~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~
Section 334.1 (Square and Compass may be displayed)
New Legislation Proposed ...................................................................... 288
Legislation ............................................................................................... ... 289
Section 343 {By-laws-Of Meetings of the Lodge)

t~f~~Woe;t___~~~~-~~~---:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g
Section 354 (By-laws-Of Fees)
Amendment Proposed ............................................................................ 302
Legislation ....................................... .................................. ........................ 303
Section 385 (Research Lodges)
Amendment Proposed ............................................................................ 286
287
Legislation ................................................................. . .......................
Section 405 (How title held)
Grand Master's Decision............................................. ......... .................... 48
.... ........ ............ ........ 55
Legislation ............................ ..........................
Section 408 (No expenditure whatsoever)
Amendment Proposed ··-··············································--··························· 229
Legislation .................. ........................................ .......... ......... .......... .......... 230
Section 409 (Use of funds)
~:~~i~tf;ip~~-~-~-.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::::::::::~~~: ~~i

Section 411 (Discretionary Expenditures)
Amendment Proposed .................................................................... 227, 291
Legislation .......................................................... .............................. .. 227, 292
Section 412 (Social purposes)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 309
Legislation ..... ................................ ................................................... ......... 311
Section 511 (Moral and physical qualifications)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 293
Legislation ................................................. ................ ................................ 296
Section 512 (Sound discretion required)
Amendment Proposed .............................................................................. 293
Legislation .......................................................... ............. .......................... 296
Section 525 (Restrictions on conferring degrees)
Amendment Proposed ·····---··-··································-································ 298
Legislation ......................................................... .. ... .................................. 300
Section 527 (Form of application for degrees)
Amendment Proposed··--·······································-···························---···· 301
Legislation ................ ....... .. .... ..... ....... ........ ........ .. ....... ........ ........... ........... .. 302
Section 552 (Fees for degrees)

t~ist~tloe;t ~~~~~-~~~-.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

__
Section 557 (Affiliation)

t~fst~oe;t--~~~~~-s~~

.. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::
Section 573 (We membership)

~&!

tnJ~~;;t··-~~~~-~-~~~---:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~g~

Section 577 (Remission of dues)

~fs}~~;t -~~-~~~-~-~.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::~&~: ~gg

Section 603 (Boards of Relief)
Amendment Proposed ..............................................................273, 274, 276
Legislation ···········-·············-······································-----··--···-·-···274, 276, 278

507

Section 732 (Automatic expulsion of California member)
Amendment Proposed ····-·······················-·········---···-···························-····· 88
Legislation ·················-····-·······················-·-··············································-·· 88
Affiliation-Notice to Lodge where Membership is Held Prior to
Reading Petition
Resolution Presented ····························------·······································----· 303
Legislation ··············-·····-··························-···-························-········-·-··-······· 304
Certain Expenses of Cornerstone Ceremonies to Be Assumed by
Grand Lodge
Resolution Presented ·····················-·-·············-···-····················--·····-·---···- 289
Legislation .................................................................................................. 291
C han ge Name of Masonic Boards of Relief
Resolution Presented ···-···················--·············-·-····································· 273
Legislation .................................................................................. ................ 274
Change Name of Masonic Education Committee and Make
It a Standing Committee
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 262
Legislation .......................................................... ................. ....................... 264
Change Time of Stated Meeting
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 258
. ........... 260
Legislation ...........................................................................
Commercialism-Policy Manual

~~?;1aW6~ ~~~~~~~~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g

Discretionary Expenditures

~=~?~la~i~~ i:.r.~~~-~~~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Display Masonic Emblems
Resolution Presented ··························································-·-·····--···-··--·· 288
Legislation ....................................................... ................ ........................... 289
Expand the Duties of Boards of Relief
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 274
Legislation .................................................................................................. 276
Fees for Degrees-Senior DeMolays

~=~?;1;:fo~ ~~-e:s~-~t~~

..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Form of Application for Degrees-Proficiency

~g~

~:;?~ratA~~ ~~-~-~-~~~~~. .::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~gg

Funeral Seryice

306

lt1~h~~t~~n ~~-~-s~-~t~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 307

Library and Museum- Expanded Facility
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 270
272
Legislation ......................... ..........................................................
Life Members hip Fifty Year Member

~~f~fatffo~ ~~~-~-~~-e-~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J8t ~g~

..
Lodges-Additional Votes Based on Number of Members
Resolution Presented .............................................................................. 255
Withdrawn ············---------············--····················································-····-····- 256
Manner of Voting
Resolution Presented ····························---------·················--····················-- 254
Legislation ........................... ....................................................................... 255
Ma5onic Home-Aged-Covina
309
Resolution Presented ........................................................................
Ruled Out of Order. ................................................................................... 309
Multiple Candidates-Conferring of Degrees

~~?~I:itffo°n ~~~-~~~-~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~5~

Permit More Than One Officers' Coach

~:~?;!aYfo~ ~~-~-~-~~~-~~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

508

Permit Serving Liquor at Social and Other Gatherings and Meetings

~11~t1~~ ~~;£~~~~.: :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :. ~H

Physical Qualification
Resolution Presented ---------------·····------·····------···-----------··-···-·-·-···--------·-··· 292
Legislation --·--·--·-··-····-··· ·---· ···-·-----····--···--····· ..... __ ·····--······--- ... ··---·· 296
Procedure-Com mon Disaster
Resolution Presented --- ------·-···-----··-----------·····--···-······--------····-··--·----------- 253
Legislation -··· ········-···---· ··--·-- -· --··-·- ·····---· --· ·· · ··-·····--······--· ········---···········-· 254
Publicity-Year Round Public Schools Support
Resolution Presented -------·····-·····-·--····--·····---·---·---···---------·- -··---····----·-···· 307
Legislation -----------·--·---· ------------------·-·---·-····· -· --- ·-·--······ ··- ... ..... ........ _ 308
Publish-Meetin g Date, Name, Address and Emblem in Newspaper
Resolution Presented ···········-···············-······································-····---···- 283
Legislation -----·-···---····----·-----·---·-------···-----------··----·--··---·-···----· ·······--········---- 284
Repeal Legislation-Clu bhouses-Berke ley & U.C.L.A.
Resolution Presented ··-·--················-·--······················--····· ··········-·········· 266
Legislation ····-·····-·······························---·-----------·----···--·-·-······· ................... 267
Research Lodges-Ballot on Applicants Without
Reference to Committee
Resolution Presented ·-··----·-····-·--········-············-------------·-----------·--······--·-- 286
Legislation ··-----··---·-·-·-·----·----- ···-···-··---·-·----··············--··················-·············· 287
Restore Masonic Temple at Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park
Resolution Presented ···--···········-··························---···················-·····-······ 268
Legislation ····---·-········-····················-············································-·-·· ·······--- 270
Serving Liquors at Masonic Banquet
Unfinished Business ··---······---···-··--------·-·---------- ----····------·····--·--····-·------····· 74
Resolution Present ed ····--····································-······-···········-·-···-·-········ 229
230
Legislation --·-----···----·-·--------------···-----·--·--·-------------------------··· --·····-·Specia l Finance Study Report, Rules and Regulations
and Proposed Legislation-Ma iled 7/ 15/ 69
Resolution Presented ···························-··········--·······--·····--··········----······· 309
Legislation --·--···--·······--····-·-------·-·············---················-·-···----··········· ··········· 311
Sunday Meetings and Outings
Resolutions Presented ···········-················ ···············-························.280, 281
Legislation .................................................................................................. 282
Withdrawn ····---···-·········-·····--····-······-----········-··············--·······-·············-······· 281
Trestleboard-E ntered Apprentice and Fellowcrafts
Resolution Presented ·····---······························--···-··-----···---····················· 285
Legislation ····-···············---··························--·············-----···············----······ 286
Trial Manual
Resolution Presented ·········-···································································· 308
Withdrawn ········-·-··················-----··-··-·--·--·····-······ ···-----·----····-···-··-··-·-------···· 308
Trustees-Masonic Homes-Califor nia Masonic Memorial TempleChange in Makeup
264
Resolution Presented ····-·················-···-············-··········-····-·-······--·······-···
Legislation .................................................................................................. 266
Vote Required
Resolutions Presented ·--····---·········-------.. ···-··········---·····---······---······--256, 257
Withdrawn --------·--··-·-·-·-·--··---- -----·-·-··--···------·-· ··----·---------····-·------··------257, 258
Withdrawal of Lodges from Boards of Relief
Resolution Presented ··························-·····-··-····--···-·····························--- 276
Legislation ----------· ------------·-··---································--··-·---- ····--·-··-····------····· 278
York Rite Sovere ign College
Resolution Presented ···········-·-·································-········--··················· 282
Withdrawn ·········--··············-··················································---·······----··· 283
Library and Museum
Grand Secretary's Comments ······-·····--·····················-···································· 77
Report of Board............ ---··········--·············· ····························· ···········-··-···---······· 198
Library and Museum-Expa nded Facility
Resolution Presented ............................. ......................................................... 270

509

GRAND LODGE OF C ALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THR

~gislatioA -··-··············· ··--···--··-·--·· .. ···· . ··-··········-----........... ......... ..... -·-··--··-·----· 272
272
Life M~~b~~shi~qF~t;i~ear.Me~i>e~·······---················-·····-···············-----···············
~esolf ti?ns Presented ···················-·········-----·····-···-----·-····························304, 305
Liquo;g1s ation ................................................................---··············-····----·······-305, 306

Unfin!shed Business ···············································--··-········--········---···-······--··· 74
Permit.Serving Liquor at Social and Other
Gatherings and Meetings
Resolution Presented ···································-·-·······················--··············· 227

Serv~ft\~t~~~s at.Ma~-o~ic.Ba~qu-~1" "·---·-·-············· ···· ·································

d

229

~=~;~tf1~1:t ~~-~~-~-~~ . :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~~

t~d~: Financing, Report of Committee ........................................................... 159

5

~~~~;~~?:~~ated ·: : -:: : : :· ;: : ~l

Lodges-Additio nal Votes Based on Number of Members

··

~~~~%-~~nn ~~~~-~~~~-~ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::: ~~~

Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Ha ll at Los Angeles)
. ...........336. 342. 344
Luckenbach Fund Audit... .... .................. ............ ...

M
Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park (See Restore Masonic Temple) ...... 268
Manner of Voting

~=~~~!Nfo°n ~-~-s-~-~-~~~-.:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::~·:::·····::··::::::::: ~~~

Masonic Clubhouses (See California Masoni c Foundation) ........................ 164
Masonic Education, Report of Committee ........................................................... . 206
155
Masonic History, Report of Committee......... ............................... .... .......
Masonic Home-Aged-C ovina

~~~~~u~~ro~~e:r~-~-~

. : : : : : ::: : : : : : ::::: : ::: : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : ::: : : : : : : ~g~

Masonic Homes
Grand Master's Comments....................................... .............. .. ....................... 39
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Bala nces ........ .............................. 338

i[~~i~l~r,:i:z: : · ; ·:: ::;;;;,;17,m

······ 110
Report of Superintendent, Covina ·-····················-·····················-············
Report of Superintendent, Union City .................................·....................... 108
Report of Trustees ....................................... ........................... ............... ........... 104
Trustees Reappointed ... .. ............................. ...... ...................................... 104, 321
····-······················· 264
Resolution Presented ························-·································
Action by Grand Lodge ............................ ....................................................... 266
Fund
and
Masonic Homes Endowment Board

~~~~sts··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::J~g: ~~~: ~!~

Contributions Through Lodges......................................................113, 118, 128
Honor Roll .................................................................................................. 113, 128

510

51 1

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GR AN D LODGE O P CALIFO RNIA

Members and Officers, 1968-69........................................................................ 422
Memorials ..................... ...... ............ ............ ........... ... .... ................................. .. .. 123
Proclamation of Grand Master...................................................................... 67
Report of Board.................................................................................................. 112
Master Masons' Attendance .................................................................................... 212
Meeting Pla ce
Changes Listed by Grand Secretar y..................... .............................. ..... 80, 82
Grand Lodge Action .................................. ................ .................................. 83, 85
Members' Contributions b y Lodges ............ ....................................................... .. 448
Me mbership

Per Capit a
P ayment by Lodges ........................ .... ........... ........ .......... .............................. 448
Rate for fiscal year ending J une, 1970................................... .............317, 31 9
Perine Endowment F und Audit ........ ..... .............................................336, 342. 346
Perma nent Endowment F und .................. ............. ................................ 336, 342, 343
P ermit More th an One Officers' Coach
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 260
Legislation ................................................... ....................................................... 261
Permit Serving Liquor a t Social and Other Gatherings a nd Meetings
Unfinished Business ............................................................... ................ ......... 74
Resolution Presented .... ...................................................................... ............ 227
Legislation ......................................... ..... ............................. . ................... .... 229
P hysical Qualifica tion
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 292
Legislation ...................................... .................................... .. ............................. 296
Policy and General Purposes, Committee on (Repor te d
separately on items r eferred t o committee.)
Procedure-Common Disaster
R esolution Presented ...................................................................................... 253
Legislat ion .......................................................................................................... 254
Proclama t ions
Const itution Observance ............. ..... ............... ..... ......................................... 69
Masonic Homes Endowment Month............................................................. 67

Mem~~Ef~~~:~i:~~~~~~:~~~:: :. :. : :::.: : : : .: .: : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : . : : tH

Memorial Service
Devotional .......................................................................................................... 5
Necrology ..................... ....................................................................................... 13
Mem orial Temple (See California Masonic Memoria l Temple)
Meserve Trust Fund .......................................... .. ....................................336, 342, 352
. .. .......................... ........ . ....................... 36
Message of Grand Master................
Mileage P ayments
Report of Committee ...................... ........................ ......................................... 212
Tabulation of P ayments .................................... ........................................... 424
Multip le Candidates-Conferring of Degrees
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 297
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 300

N
Ne crology, Report of Committee.......................................................................... 13
New Lodges
Charters Authorized ........................................................................................ 204

Pn;fr;~::i~~-~:::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~: 2~~
0

Officers of Gra nd Lodge
Appointment of for 1969-70............................................................................ 320
Attendance from Other Jurisdictions............................................................ 34
Election of ...................... ....... .. ...................... ................. ................................... 320
Installed for 1969-70 ............................. ............................ ............................ ..... 321

~~~!nh;ia~~r:;s:,i:in~~-~~!.~.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 47~

Old Masonic Ha ll at Los An geles, Report of Committee on .......................... 174
Opening of !20th Annua l Communication...................... .......... ........................ 3
Oration by Grand Or at or............................... ........................................................ 175

p
Past Grand Master s
List Since Organization ...... ........ ..................................................................... 472
Present at Commun ica tion ... ......... ..................... ................ ......................... 4, 212
Visitors at Communication ................................................... ................. 4, 34, 212
Past Masters and Wardens-Necrology R eport.... ........... ............................. 13, 30
Paulsen, Arthur, P .G.M.
Eulogy for .......................................................................................................... 26
Photograph ........................................................................................................ 26
Pay of Members
Report of Committee ............................................................................ ......... ... 212
Tabulation of P ayme nts................................................ .................................. 424

~:
~~f~ti&h~~ls°sw!~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 65

Youth Order s Week..........................................................................................
·
P ublic School
Grand Master's Commen ts.............................................................................. 49
Cornerstones ...................................................................................................... 58
Dedications ........................................................................................................ 58
Proclamation .................................. ..................... ................. .......... .............. ...... 66
Report of Committee ... ............................... .... ...... ....... ................................ ..... 182
Publicity-Year Round Public Schools Support
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 307
308
Legislation ······· ·· ·········· ···· ··· ································ ·· ···········:···························
Publish-Meeting Date, Name, Addr ess and Emble m m Newspaper
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 283
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 284

Q
Quota System-Homes Guests
Revocation ...................................................................................................... .... 105
Finance Committee Commen ts ...................................................................... 313

R
Recept ions a nd Breakfasts Re ported.................................................................... 59
Recognition of F oreign Grand Lodges
Recognized Jurisdictions ................................................................................ 483
Report of Committee ........................................................................................ 170
Registration and Mil eage P ayments............................. ........... ............................ 424
Repeal Legislat ion-Clu bhouses-Berk eley & U.C.L. A.
R esolution Presented ...................................................................................... 266
Legislation ............................................................... ............ ............................... 267
Reports of Committees

~~~;~ir~f coiiti-.oL::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: i~6

By-Laws ................................................................................................ .............. 83
California Freemason Publication Board ............................................ ........ 154

512

GR AND LODGE OF CALIPOR NIA

. l'IWCEEDI NGS O P THE

California Masonic Foundation..................................................................... 164

~h~~~~~ie~...:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

~~~~~s;;·~'.~: ;:; ; ; ; ::-: ;: ;: ;: ; :; : ;: ;: !JI
Distribution ---------········-········-······--··················-···-··················· ·····-····················: 146

?EE::;~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:H

Investment ...... ..... ... ............................................... ................................. ........ 140
J1;1rispruden ce (R~ported sepa rately on items referred to Committee)
Library Comm1ss10ners .................................................................................. 198
Lodge F inancing ....................................... ....................................... .................. 159
Masonic Clubhouses (See Californ ia Masonic Foundation) .................... 164

:::::::::·:::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·::·················
~=~~~f ~ ii<fs~~~~o~_.::::::::::::::::::
155
.. 206
.
d

Masonic Homes En owment Board .............................................................. 112
Masonic Homes Trustees ................................................................................ 104

:::::::::::::::::::::::::·····-·····- t~
~:~ir~:; ~:~~- -~--~~~~-~-~-~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
. ... . .................. ........ ... 174
1

1

Old Mason ic Hall in Los Angeles.....................
Pay of Members............. ....... ......................... ........................................... 212
Policy and General Purposes <Repor ted separately on items referred
t o Committee)
182
Public Schools ....... ........... .............................. .... ... ........... ..... ......
170
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges......... ....................... ..... .... ....
Ritual (Reported separate ly on items referred to Committee)
231
Special F ina nce Study........................ .................... ..............................
Study fo r the Commun ication of the F undamentals of
Freema sonry ..... . ......................................................................................... 215
St udy of Fifty-Year Vetera n Pins ............................................................ :... 251
152
Taxation .............. .. .............................. .......... ....... ............................ ..
Youth Orders ...................................................................................................... 200
Reports of Officers
Grand Cha plain-Devotiona l Service ........................................................ 5
98
Grand Lecturer ··················································································--··
1

_: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ::: ~g

g~:~~ ~:~~~r
8~!~~ ~c:::~~r

· : : : : : : : : : : : : ::: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : ~~

Representatives of Lodges

~~~~~~~~CXt~~~~~~: ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Research Lodges
List e d ..... .. ........ .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. . .. .. ... .. .............................. :... ......................... 464, 489
Masonic Education Comm ittee Comments ...... ................ ...............206, 207
Research Lodges-Ballot on Applic ant s
Without Refe rence t o Committee
Resolution Prese nted .......................................................... :........................... 286
Legislation ....................................... .................................................................. 287
Reserves for Special Purposes Homes Aud it . . .. ........................336, 342 378
Add_it ions and ~eplacements ..................................... ............. ...........342'. 378
Cov~a Entertainment Reserve .................................... .....................342, 382
Covma Reserv~ ............................... .......................................................342. 379
Decoto Entertainment Reser ve .......................... ........................... .......342, 382
Decoto Re~er ve ....................................................... .................................342, 380
U nappropriated Reserve ................. ................................. . ..............342, 38 1

51 3

Residents' Accou nts Au dit ...............................................:.............................._Sta, 385
Residents at Homes
Covina ................................................. ............................................................... 406
Union City ·········-··--································-····-··············-·······-··················-·······-··-· 397
Resolutions (Also see Legislation)
Presented ... .................................... .............. .................... ..... .......... ................... 253
Grand Master's Actions ..................................................... ............................. 309
Withdr awn .................................... 256, 257, 258, 260, 28 1, 283, 292, 307, 308
Restore Mason ic Temple a t
Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park

~~f~~f~np~=~~~~-~-~ .:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~g

R itual, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred
to committee)
R oll Call ·········-············-····················································································-·········

3

s
Scholarship Fund Au dit --······························-···-····-······-·······················336, 342, 349
Servll1~~f~~Js B~;t~~ni~- ~~~-~~~~-- -·-· ..· --.. ..................................................... . 74
········· 229
Resolut ion Presen ted ---······················-----·---····································-···--·
Legislation ........................................... ... ........................................ .................... 230
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning ··-···························-···························-·························-······-·· 3
Monday Afternoon ·····-····························-····························-························-· 34
Tuesday Morning ·································-····· -········-·········--------·········---················ 146
Tuesday Afternoon ..... .. ......................................•............................................ 159

5

i';~}=t!~~;~ ::_~::~~~::::~~:~_:=·=::~:::~::::~::~:~~~;~~:;~;~~::::Ji

•
Sojourner Relief
Grand Master's Commen ts ····-···········-··- ···········-·-··-··························---·---···· 46
Repor t of Special Committee ··············-····················-··························--242, 245
Unfinished Business ·······························-·····································-·-················ 74
Special Appendix ·······-···············································································-·····-········ 323
58
Special Ceremonies R eported ·-··························-········-·······························---······ ·· 418
Special Committees ..................................................................................................
Special Communications Reported ....................................... ............................. 58
Special F inance Study Report , Rules and Regulations
and Proposed Legislation- Mailed 7/ 15/ 69
Report of Committee ........................................................................................ 231
Rules and Regula tions ···-··················-·············-· ·····-··-···•··········-··-··-···-· ······ 235
Resolution P resented .................. ·--········-·-·················--····························-·-····· 309
Legislation -·······-··-·····························-···-························-···--··············----·-········ 311
Standing Committees ---··························-····--····················--········-············- ·- ··· 414
St ewart , Edgar V., Jr., P.G.M.

~h~~~i;r!~h :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~

Student Aid (See California Masonic Foundation) ........................................ 164
Students' Loan Fund Audit ...................................................... .............336, 342, 349
Study for the Communication of the Fundamentals
of F ree masonry Committee, Report of ........................................................ 215
Study of Fifty Year Vetera n Pins Committee, Report of................................ 251
Sunday Meetin gs and Outings
Resolutions Presented ··············-············-·······-· ·-··-·····················-····-------280, 281

~~f~SJ~!~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~i

514

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report ...............................................................................330, 331, 332
Finance Committee Report ....................................................................312, 319
Grand Treasurer's Report .............................................................................. 70

w

T
Taxation, Report of Committee On .................................................................... 152
Telegrams, Sent and Received ..............................................................................
4
12

fft1;1P1:~:~~-~-~-~~-~.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~'.

i

Trestleboard-Entered Apprentice and Fellowcrafts
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 285
Legislation ........................................................................................................ 286
Trial Manual
Resolution Presented ...................................................................................... 308
Withdrawn ........................................................................................................ 308
Trial Records
Listed ....................................................
................................................... 86
Committee on Grievances Report .....
... ...... . ......... ... . .. ................ . 87
Trust Funds Audit ....................... ........ ......... ....... ... ... ..... ......... ... ......... ... ......336, 342
Trustees- Masonic Homes-California Masonic
Memorial Temple-Change in Make-Up
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 264
Legislation .......................................................................................................... 266

u
Unappropriated Reserve Audit ......................................................................342, 381
Unfinished Business for 1970
Blood Bank-Study .......................... ........... . ...... ........ ...................... ....245, 250
Code Revision-Special Committee ............ ....... ........ ........ . .......... .... .44, 55
Commercialism-Policy Manual .......... ............................... ................ 278, 280
In-Depth Study-Operations .................................................................. 52, 57
Malakoff Diggings State Historic Park ................................................268, 270
Memorial Temple-Property Acquisition ..... ................... ................. 270, 272
Sojourner Relief and Board of Relief Study ...... ....... .......................... 242, 245
Unfinished Business From 1968
Code Revision, Special Committee ........................................................73, 225
Contributions to Endowment Fund in Lieu of
Flowers to Ill Brother ........................................................................74, 226, 227
Fifty Year Pins ............................................................................................74, 251
Finance Study Committee Report ................... ............................. 74, 231, 309
P ermit Serving Liquor at Social and Other
Gatherings and Meetings ............................................. ...................... .......74, 227
Serving Liquors at Masonic Banquet ................................. .................74, 229
Sojourner R elief and Board of Relief System-Study ... .. .......74, 242, 245

v
Veteran Buttons
Grand Master's Recommendation ................................................................ 44
Action by Grand Lodge .................................................................................. 55
P resented ............. .............. ........ .. ..... ... .... .............. ... ........ ........... .............. .. ....... 90
Report of Committee ............... ........ ..................... ..... .................................... 251
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions ...... ............................. ................... .... .37, 42, 63
Vote Required
Resolutions Presented ..............................................................................256, 257
Withdraw n ..................................................................................................257, 258

515

Wadleigh Fund Audit ........................................................................... 336, 342, 347
Withdrawal of Lodges from Boards of Relief
Resolution Presented ..........................:........................................................... 276
Legislation ..... . . ............................................................................................ 278

y
York R ite Sovereign College
Resolution Presented ........................................................................................ 282
Withdrawn ........................................................................................................ 283
Youth Orders
Grand Mast er's Comments .............. ........................................................ ...... 51
Grand Master's P roclamation ........................................................................ 65
Report of Committee on ............................................................................. ..... 200
Speakers at Gra nd Lodge .................... ........................................................... 35

