RAYMOND A. EBBA GE
A "Good Guy," A Dreamer, A Fighter, A Leader. A Patriot, A Mason.

RAYMOND A . EBBAGE
Grand Master
October 12, 1973 - October 17. 1974

Each is a n appropriate description of Raymond A. Ebbage, the I 08th
M. · .W. ·.Grand Master of Masons in California and Hawaii.
He was born March 20th. 1913, in Vancouver. British Columbia, and then
orphaned at an early age. Ray shortly thereafter came to California to reside with
relatives .
He received his education in the public schools of California. graduated from
San Francisco's Polytechnic High School. and then majored in accounting at the
University of San Francisco.
With his coming of age. and. having objective ly studied the governments of
several countries. Ray applied for and received citizenship in the United States. He
is justly proud of having become an American and has never regretted his decision.
On October 17, 1937 , Ray married his lovely wire Ruth. They are the proud
parents of a daughter, Elgeane and a son, Donald. and have been blessed with four
grandc hildren.
During World War II, he fel t it his obligation to be of serv ice to his adopted
country, and he volunteered for duty as a Private in the Infantry of the United
States Anny. His leadership qualities qu ickly qualified him for a commission. He
saw action in the European Theater as a Captain (Infantry Company Commander)
and. as a result of his outstandingly courageous actions. received the Silver Star.
the Bronze Star with Cluster, and France's Croix de Guerre.
On returning home to Sacramento. Brother Ray returned to the insurance business and, in due time, earned the designation of Chartered Life Underwriter. He
also became a past president of the Life Managers Association . His professional
career has remained with insurance and, for the past several years, he has been the
General Agent in the Greater Sacramento Area for a large life insurance company.
In his Masonic career. he received the Degree of Master Mason on February 17.
1950. in Capital City Lodge No. 499. and, in 1957, served as Master. Since
then. his Masonic endeavors have been tireless. In addition to being the Senior
Grand Deacon in 1962, he has served as a member of the Public Schools Committee, the Sojourners Committee, the Constitution Observance Committee, the
DeMolay Liaison Board, and on the Board of Trustees o f the California Masonic
Memorial Temple a nd the Masonic Homes of California.
Venerable Master of the Lodge of Perfection of the Sacramento Scottish Rite
Bodies in 1968. he was decorated with the rank and t itle of Knight Commander of
the Court of Honor in 1969. He is also a member of the Sacramento York Rite Bodies , Sciots' Tract Pyramid No. 11 of the AEOS. Ben Ali Temple of the Shrine.
Sacramento Court No. 119 of the Royal Order of Jesters, and Sacramento Chapter
No. 133 of the National Sojourners. In 1967 he served as President of the Northern
California Past Masters Association. He is a member of St. Francis Conclave of
the R ed Cross of Constantine, and has rece ived the Honorary Legion of Honor
award of the Order o f DeMolay. In each of the organizations of which he is a
member. he has taken an active role in pursuing its objectives and programs .
iii

GR AN D LODGE OF CALIFORN I A

In 1970, our Brother was e lec ted to the office of Junio r Grand Warden, a nd served with distinction therein and in eac h of the succeeding offices. c ulminat ing with
his installation as Grand Master in October 197 3. His installation was the first in
the history of our Grand Lodge where the general membership, with fam ilies and
friends, were invited to be present. The event was cond ucted with all the dignity
that be fib such an occasion and was inspiring to all who attended .
During his travel s a.s G rand Master, Brother Ray was particularly ple ased to
attend the programs of the smaller and more remote Lodges of our Grand
Juri!>dict ion. Notable among them were the Centen ni al celebrations of seven o f
our Lodges: Athem, No. 228, Janesville No. 232. Calistoga No. 233, Hope No.
234, Surprise Valley No. 235, Hills Ferry No. 236 , and Guada lupe No. 237.
Ray's visits to Janesvill e No. 232 and Surprise Valley No. 235 were of particular
Masonic pleasure to him. they being the first time in the history of these Lodges
tha t the Grand Master had been present at the ir meet ings.
He took great pleas ure in wearing the gleaming white Stetson hat give n to him
in testimony of his bei ng one o f the "good guys." His relationship to his
Brethren throughout the year more than confirmed this designation.
Always a salesman, o ur Brother, on every proper occasion, took time and effort to encourage our members to be "salesmen'· of Masonry-by proudly wearing the Square and Compass (the most widely known and respected fraternal
emblem in the world); by eac h of us displaying , through our perso nal actions ,
o ur conviction in the value of the tenets of Masonry; and, by so refl ecting the
merits of our teachings we can convince others of the good of o ur Institution .
Ou r Grand Master s pent much effort in bringing proper instruction to the Craft
a s co its moral and spiritual behavior- perhaps no thing more so than in the
cardinal points he repe atedly stressed: a dedication to God, personal integri ty.
family unity , and parental responsibility. Each of these was a natural outgrowth
of Ray's personal life and belief-and worthy of o ur imitation . To these was
added hi s recognition of the good in every person and every thing; he enjoyed
"looking for the good. and praising it."
On other occasions . o ur leader, feeling a far mo re patriotic responsibility than
some of us , ex.pounded on the duties , responsibil ities and privileges of being an
Americ an . Receiving the Freedom Foundation ' s Gold Medal Award in 1970 fo r
his speech o n "Our Flag, " he continued throughout his Grand Lodge Line offices w ith a sincere emphasis, upon every occasion, to remind us of the great
heritage that is ours in this great country-and, of our responsibi lity in continuing its existence through respect for our Flag and true involvement, at every
level , in o ur Government.
Ever the dreamer, Ray dreamt. but al so put his shoulder to the wheel to
promote the greatness of o ur Country and the advancement of Freemaso nry in it.
As in his wartime leadership, th ose who worked closely with Ray during his
tenure in the office of Grand Master fo und him to be the kind they would follow
into battle, without question. Though always demanding of him~elf, hi s tole rance for the defic iencies and weaknesses of others was laudable.
His judgment in matters of policy, his tact and discretion in handling the multitudinous items of concern to the Grand Master, will , for many years. be
rerJected in the growth and stature of our Gra nd Lodge , a nd of Masonry in
general throughout California and Hawaii .

iv

I, EDWAR D H. SIEMS. Grand Secretary of the M. W. Grand Lodge o f Free and
Accepted ~asons of the State of California, do hereby certify that the followi ng
pages con tain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of that body at its
one hundred twenty-fifth Annual Communicat ion , com menced at the city of San
Francisco , on Monday , the 14th day of October, A. L. 5974, and term inated on
Thursd ay. the 17th day of October, A. L. 5974.

I have he reunto appe nded my official
signature and have a ffi xed the seal of
the M. W . Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of
California. at the office of the Grand
Sec retar y, thi s s eve nth d ay of
November, in the year of Light , fi ve
thou sand nine hundred and seventyfour.

v

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROC EE DINGS

of

THE M:.W:. GRAND LODGE
of

1Jir.e.e anh i\rr.ept.eh flt1ann11
OF THE

STA TE OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

125TH ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION
H ELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON
MOl'DAY. OCTOBER 14, A.O . 1974, A.l. 5974
AND TERMINATING ON
THURSDAY , OCTOBER 17 , A.O . 1974 , A .l. 5974

Copyright 4'J l 974 by Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California
Printed in the United States of America. All rights in this book arc reserved.
No part thereof may be reproduced in any manne r whatsoever without written permission from the Grand Lodge of California, e)(cept that quotations
may be embodied in reviews by .,uch other Grand Jurisdictions as have been
recognized officially by this Grand Lodge. For information address Grand
Secretary. 1111 California Street. San Francisco. California 9-i 108 .

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIFOR NI A

3

ONE HUNDRED TWENTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Louge ofFree and Accepted Masons of the State of
California commenced its One Hundred Twenty-Fifth Annual Communication in
the California Masonic Memo rial Temple on October 14 , A. L. 5974. at 10:00
A.M . Grand Lodge was raiseu by Mike Krcelic , the Master of Guardian Lodge
No . 596, using a gavel presenteu to the Grand Master at the cornerstone ceremony
for the Knights Ferry School .
Roll c:.ill disclosed the presence of the following:

ELECTED OFFICER S
M . · . W . · . RAYMO~D A . EBBAGE . .............................. Grand Master
R. · . W . · .BURTON MEYER . JR . .. .. ......... ... . ......... Deputy Grund Master
R. ·. W . ·. J OHN F. ROBERTS. JR ...... . . . . ........ ........ Senior Grand Warden
R. ·. W. · . K ERMIT A. JACOBSON . .. . .. . . .......... ..... . Junior Grund Wurden
V. ·. W. · .CHESTER R. MACPH EI:. .• . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. ... .. Grand Treasurer
V.' . W .· . EDWARDH. SIEM S . .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..... .. GrandSecretar\'
V. · . W . · . H . DOUGLAS L EMONS .. . . ... . .. ........... . ... . ... . Grund Lecture.r

APPOINTIVE OFFICERS
V." R " . EARL C. EVANS ......... ................ ........ ... Grand Chaplain
W. ·.B URTON 0. YOUNG . ..... . . ... . . . . . . . .. ..... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . ·. E DWARD E. SEAGLE ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . ·. U LYSSES G. PA TROPULOS .... . ..... . ........ Assistant GrGlui Lecturer
W . ·. V ERNON L. GORDO:\.......... .. ........... Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . ·. G EORGE W . PERKIN S ..... . .. ... . ........ . .. Assistant Grand Lecturer
W . · . E RNEST M. N EWTO:-.; ......... . ... . ..... . .... Assistant Grwul Lecturer
W. · . WALK ERS. KISSELBURGH .. ....... . ......... . .......... Grcmd Orator
W . ·. R OBERT D. LINT NER ...... . ... . . .. . .. .. . .. Assistant Grand Treusurer
W. · . VERNE W. HENDRIX.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Assistant Grund Secretary
W. · . JAMES K . WILSON . .......... . ... . . .. . .. ........... .... Grand Marshal
W . · . M ALCOLM L. WAGSTAFF. JR .... .... ......... . ... Grand Sword Bearer
W . ·. STANFOR D FO!'IG ......... .. .. .. . .. ............ . .. . Grand Bible Beurer
W . ·. J OHN W . DRISKELL . ..... , .............. ........ Senior Grund Deacon
W . · . FRANK N. MCGRATH . . .......... . . ............. Junior Grand Deacon
W . ·. NORMAN W. SHAW. JR . ...................... ... Senior Grand Steward
W . · . C LARENCE E. BAKER ... . ......... .. . . . . ........ Junior Grand Steward
W. ·.JAMES C. FORRISTALL ...... ... . ....... ........... .. Grand Pursuivunt
W. · . HAROLD MUELLER . .... . . . . ... . .. .. . . ... ....... . . ..... Grund Organist
W .' . THO MAS J. M CKIM SON . .. ... .. ... ... .......... ... .... .. .. Grund Tiler

4

5

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAN O LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND OFFICERS

Ric hardson Jr. High Schoo l. San BemarJino; Law Enforcement Facilit y Building. Pacific Grove; Orland Union High School; Big Valle y High School. Bieber;
Cypress School, Newbury Park .
Receptions-639th District. San Diego; 646th District. Brawley; Sac ramento
Master~ and Wardens Assoc iat ion: Indian Well s No. 691; Madison No. 23;
Kilauea No . 330.
Annfrersaries-50th , Chateau Th ierry No. 569; Service 594; Warre n G . Harding
No. 579 ; Security No . 581; Santa Maria No. 5 80 ; Wasc o No. 583 ; San Pedro
No. 332 : All States No. 593 .
15th, Sa n Jacinto. No. 33 8.
/OOrh . Athen~ No. 228; Janesville No. 232; Surprise Valley No . 235; Hills
FerTy Nu. 236; Guadalupe , No. 237.
Cornerstone and Dedication Ceremony-Masonic Temple . Stanislau~ No . 206
and Modesto No. 675. Modesto.
Dedication Ceremon y-Santa Barbara County AJministration Center in
Lo mpoc; Valley Lodge No. 135; West Covina Lodge No. 758 .
Breakj(1.1·t s- Sacramento M asters and Wardens Association ; EAst Bay Masters
and Warden s Association .

PAST GRAND MASTERS
M . ·. W . · . EUGENE S . HOPP
M . · . W. ·.EDWARD H . SIEMS
M . ·. W. ·. ROB ERT A . CRIGLER
M . · . W. ·. LEO E . ANDERSON
M .-. W . ·. CHESTER R . MAC PH EE
M . ·. W . · . G UY B. MI ZE
M. ·. W . · . LESTER S. MCELWAIN
M . · . W . ·. ELMER W . HEALD
M. ·. W . · . WILLIAM H . PRI CE
M . ·. W.-. TH EODORE MERIAM
M . ·. W. · . MYRON E . SMITH
The Mos t Worshipful Grand LoJge was o pened in ample fonn. foll owin g which
the Flag of our Country was received.
There were 1364 o fficers and representa tives from 679 c hartered Lodges,
1207 Past Masters anJ 28 distinguis hed guest~ fro m other jurisdict io ns present
during this Communkation.
The Grand Secretary announced the presence at the opening of this Communication of a bus load o f res idents from our Ho me for Adults al Union City.

APPOINTMENTS
The Deputy Grand Master announced the appointment pro tem of Ro bert A.
Bus h as Grand Standard Bearer in the absence of Worshipful George W . Nel son:
he a lso announced the appointment of the Distribution Committee with Varnum
Paul as Cha innan a~ s i!'.tcd by Nga i Ho Hon g and Ro land C. Rens ha w .
NOTE: During the period of the temporary absence of Senior Grand Warden
John F . Roberts Jr. on Tuesday morning, Octuhcr 15th for urgent reasons . the
Grand Master announced hi s ~tation would be temporarily occupieJ by Ernes t M.
Newto n, Assistant Grand Lecturer.

TELEGRAMS
The G rand Master directed the Grand Secretary to send appropriate tele grams to
e ac h of tht.: ahsent Past G rand Masters .
During the session the GranJ Secretary read congratulatory messages received
from other Grand Juri sdictions and concordant groups.

MEMORIAL SERVICE
DEVOTIONAL AND NECROLOGY
Organ Prelude ........ .. .. ...... ....... Haro ld Mue ller, Grand Organi!'.t
Invocation and De votional ......... .. ..... .. ...... . .... . Earl C . Evans
MooJ Music." ......... . . . . .. ............. ... . . . . ... Grand Organist
Report of Committee on Nec rol ogy .. . .... Ric hard W . Rylander , Chairman
Eulo g ies:
Lo uis C. Drapeau .... ......... .. ... .. ...... .. .... . . . . Guy B. Mi ze
Les lie E. Wood . .. . ... . .......... .. ............. Theodore Merriam
Herbert A . Huebner . . ..... ..... .... . .............. . Ralph A. Head
Joseph L. She ll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Leo E. Ande rson
E arl Warren ....... ... . .. . .. ........... .... .. . Chester R. Mac Phec
Benedicti on . . ............. ...... ........... ...... .. . Grand Chapl ain
Tap~ . · · . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Grand Organis t

GAVELS
Gaveb u!-.ed by th<.: Grand Master during the ceremonies indicated and
presenteJ to him o n thme occasiom. by the Lodges, Districts, Assoc iatio ns or
Club~ were employed at various times during chis C ommunicacion :
Co rnerstone Ceremonies-Gracella W oodruff Regional Occupationa l Cencer of
Stockton; Cypress High School. Annaheim; Knights Ferry Elementary School;

/111·ocatio11
Most Worshipful Grand Master wul Members of the Grand Lodge :
Creator and Architec t of the Un ive rse anJ all things therein, We give tha nk!>
for che gift of life and intelligence . We give thanks for o ur pri vilege of expressing
our talents , thus receiving s atisfac tio n and the fullness of life . We give thanks for
the teac hings of Masonry and chc great good accomplis hed in the pas t.

6

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

As we open the Grand Lodge communication for 1974 we speak o ur word that
through the course of business proceedings, God shall guide us in right action
and the accomplishment of good.
We g ive thanks for the knowledge and guidance now asked for . knowing that
our minds are open and receptive to it.
So let it be ... Amen

I got a New Years card once that I thought was rea l nice. This is what was written
inside of it:

Del'Otiunal
Most Worshipful Grand Master and members of Grand Lodge, and all Brother
Masons herein assembled:
It is with great humility that I approach this privilege of speaking to you this
morning. Words are very lacking in expressing my appreciation to the Grand
Ma~ter for appointing me Grand Chaplain. And in the course of this years duties.
I have enjoyed many conversations with him concerning the philosophy, teachings and purposes of Masonry . He is God inspired and moves from one goal to
the next to produce all the good that he can.
I also thank the members of Grand Lodge for their encouragement as I
endeavored to fulfill my dutie~ as Grand Chaplain. And. of course, as I traveled
with Grand Lodge in Cal ifornia and Hawaii. I was benefited in consciousne~s by
meeting ~o many wonderful masons and their wives. My wive, Olive, has expressed the same feeling.
I tru~t that only past Grand Chaplains can dewcribe the awe that comes to the
minister's mind as he prepare~ his Devotional Lecture for Grand Lodge. First of
all , in my church , I hC1ve at lea."t 52 opportunities each year to inspire my people .
Here I am with ONE OPPORTUNIT Y to inspire this very wonderful
congregation.
The need for people to be inspired is brought to my attention daily. Many are
~o confused that they do not know what they want out of life. A prayer request
was handed to me the other day and thi!. is what it said ,
"Please pray for me so that I can change my employment. I want to
start a day nur!.ery so that I can relax during the day."
Some time ago I answered the phone in my usual way, saying,
··This is Dr. Evans - who is calling?"
The person told me. and I remembered them, so I said:
.. You have called me before, haven·1 you?'"
The response was with a very pleasant voice. ··oh. Yes. I've had trouble from
you lots of time ~.··
Now th at"s enough to get anyone mixed up.
As I continued to talk with this person, she said.
"I went shopping Saturday and going without my arch supports harmed
me. I can scarcely sit down ."
Once I received a letter from a very excited lady who wrote as follows:
'·Last ni ght my hu sband quarreled with me for two hours to get the gun
to commit suicide , although he co uld have just as easily gotten it
himself. ..

7

" May I ex tend you the heart iest greetings fo r the New Year. with the
hope that a ll of the good you receive may be shared with me ."
Yes. People are funny and they do need help. In my life time 1 have never seen so
many people doing one thin g that causes so much ill health and unhappiness as
today. They see the worst in everything and everybody including themselves .
Solomon is recorded in Proverbs 23:7 stating a natural law of the Universe
concerning one's thinking:
"As a man thinketh in his heart so is he." In practical language it rnn be
expressed this way : Everyone' s life is a sum total of his or he r thinking
and doing. If you constantly think abou t bad things . you'll get more of
the same. The law is this . . . you create in life what you think about.
Another law that is vital to the good life you want to live is this:
If you do not appreciate the good you have you will lose it. For example, if
you do not appreciate and take care of your material things such as a house. a car
or a watch you will lose them. You can lose family and friends the same way .
And this is true of our country and all of itssedomes. Since about 1930 there
have been forces brewing dissatisfaction and disrespect for our constitution , our
government and our institutions. It has in the last few years become a hC1bit to
publicize only the bad things. I urge all of Masonry to pick up its fo rtitude and
tum the tide tow ard seeing the good in o ur country and people.
I propose a slogan for this purpose : "SEE THE GOOD AND PRAISE IT."
See the good in all people. Do not over-react to people and situations; See the
good in free enterprise; See the good in our Departments of Government. Of
course, our people, business and Government processes are not perfec t, but I
give this warning. YOU CAN'T BUILD GOOD OUT OF THE BAD . You can
only build good out of the good. LOOK FOR THE GOOD AND PRAI SE IT.
I am often confronted with people who are ill and living in lack. The y all think
of t hemselves CIS being faces and blame other people and bad economic
conditions. All of them think that life is somethin g for nothing, but soon I make
it clear that they must hel p themselves . And with some disc ussion they learn that
they must live in accord with the laws of the Universe that involve their lives.
I teach them to be aware of two C1spects of reality. First, that the laws of the
Universe are stable and constant. Second. that forms are always changing. This
is the basis of living and a good life. Learn to use various laws to produce certain
good things and they will always work for you in that given way. As you learn to
chose how to use various laws, you can change your.;elf and condit ions to fulfill
your desires.
Through the Law of cause and effect. what thought has created. thought c an
change. You think and c hange the cause and thus change the effect. The first law
that helps these sic k and poverty bound people is this ... LOOK FOR THE
GOOD AND PRAISE it.
I am amazed at how little most people know about our country and the advancement of this planet's civiliza tion. Jn 1976 we will be celebrnting 200 years

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA ND LODGE OF CA LIFO RNIA

of the greates t growth recorded in mankind' s history. It is greater than the 6000
years preceeding it.
Such intelligent people as the Assyrians. Pers ian s. Egyptians and Greeks
li ved fo r centuries on fert ile lands and yet they were not able to produce enough
food. Famine collapsed the Roman Empire. For 6000 years famine was the order
of the day.
The n in 1776 men guided by the teachings of Masonry helped in fo rming our
new country. It was established upon brotherly love. relief and truth with large
portions of patience and fortit ude.
Let me count up some of the developments: Americans have overcome
darkness with light , changing from pine knots and candles to electric lighting;
We hav e defenses aga inst the weather, growing from fireplaces to air
conditioning; We are conquering pain and disease: T ravel and com munication
has improved beyond most people ' s greatest dreams: We arc down to a fo ur day
work week . It is impossible to calc ulate the benefits from the space program.
So much knowledge is being gathered that we can' t even find time to study. it.
More people are being ed ucated than every before; Science is working on fusion
which it is believed will in the near future give mankind all the e nergy o ur planet
can use. This will make it possible to produce all the goods and services that
mankind desires. Then we will have no reason but to live in peace and brotherly
love.
O h . Yes!! We have much to be than kful for. Again I say to all Masons.
" LOOK FOR THE GOOD" because you can create good out of it.
When I began my thrilling tour last October with Grand Lodge I was often
asked what attracted me to Masonry. It was the word' Architect' used to desc ribe
God. At that time my oldest daughter was very ill and I needed to rum to a Power
greater th an myself fo r guidance and strength. Up to that time God was a very
nebulous thing to me, but when a Masonic friend told me that God was the
'Architect" and C reator of the Universe, including a ll people and things, my life
was strengthe ned.
Since then I have studied the subject and I'd like to present it fo r yo ur
consideration.
It is not known how or when the word 'Arc hitect' came to be used in
describing the C reative Power of the Universe. Howeve r. the word 's etymology
provides a clue regarding why the word would be applied to the Div.inc Power of
Creation . The first four letters , ·arch ,' originally referred to a solid geome tric
fonn very commonly used in construction: a curved structura l de~ice use? to ~.ro­
vide suppon . T he Greek word ' arch' is pnnced 'ar-hee ' meaning, chief, hrst
or beginning. The last ponion of the word, ' tect' was taken from the Greek woi:d
'tekh ne' whic h meant art or skill. Therefore, when the two words are placed m
conj unction, o ne is actually describing an entity possessed of the greatest or most
eminent skill .
Masonic history does not explain why the attributes of the human architect
were adopted to describe and show respect for God. But by imagining th~ experiences of early Maso nic workmen and architects, it becomes clear and logical.
The first architec ts had little knowledge to draw from . Few people could read
or write and there were very few words and sy mbols. This made it next to

impossible to pass knowledge on from one generation to the next. Kno.,.,..ledge
was preserved ma inly through the experience of using the known build ing tools
such as the square . compass. le vel and the plumb line. One generation would
overlap the next. so knowled ge of the building trade was preserved .
We know that the cornerstone was the beginning. o f a building. Through geometry the floor. walls and roof were calcu lated from it. As the arch itect and
workmen labored on a building, they soon disco\'ered that the laws of mathemati cs demanded that the workmen wo rk togethe r in harmony and
responsibility . If they did not, the building would soon fall down and they wou ld
lose their trade . None of the builders co uld allow big mistak es or bad work to be
done.
This caused the architect and workme n to fo nn a philosophy of liv ing. T hey
reaso ned that the laws of the Unive rse and of building were stable and therefore
responsible. This being tru e, experie nce showed them that they must correspo nd
to the laws they worked with . So brotherly love, relief. truth and fortitude are not
j ust good ideas but are laws of the uni verse .
This probably was the firs t light of understanding for Masons, that there was a
connection between the work they did a nd the laws of the Uni verse. As time
went on, the workmen began to wonder how the archi tect fou nd out abOut the
building tools, and from where d id he obtain the plans of architecture for eac h
building.
When they asked the Architect. he maybe wa' at first a little bewildered,
because it seemed to just come to him.
'' i son of just think to myse lf" he could have said, " I plan what I want to do
and then 1 figure our how to do it." Thi~ is what is called M EDITATION or talk·
ing with God the Architect and Creator.
The bu ilders· soon showed great respect for th e Architec t because he seemed
to be the source of all ideas that gave them work . This respect, in time. caused
the a rchitects to inquire of themselves . .. " Where does all th is knowle dge .
w isdom and unde rstand ing come from? .. The ir reasonin g m ight have gone like
th is:

9

I pause in peace a nd quiet and I think . Cou ld it be that there is a Great
Arc hitect th at I contact in thought ? It mu~t be an 'all knowing
intelligence .' T hen it seemed logical th at thought and laws of building
or creating were o ne and the same .
Many Masons and others ha ve now logically determined that Go<l, T he Great
Architect, is Infinite Life and Intelligence in and through all people and things.
Also considerable tho ught has been given to the idea that Infinite Intelligence is
in essence all the laws, rules, regu lations and proce~ses of the Universe. Words
are very lacking in explaining what God is. but a Contemporary Philosopher.
Eme~t Holmes. stated it simpl y and well:
..God is limitl ess Life and Mind and th is Life a nd Mind return s to the
thinker exactly what he thinb into it and does through it."
All sc ientis l~. inventors. writers, composers of mus ic and c reators of civil law
who have advanced ou r c ivilizat ion have communicated wit h the Grea t Architect
through meditation and prayer. Thomas Edison is a goo<..I example.

I0

PROCEEIJINCiS OF THE

GRAND l.ODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

In Ma.,onic ritual we find these words:
" It is our duty. before .:ntering upon any great or important undcrstaking. to invoke the aid and blessing of God . ''
This has been misunderstood by many. Masonic history show:- that Masons
who gave the most to manki nd . believed that prayer must be a part of daily living. It was also noted hy them. that the an~wer to prayer did not always come at
the so und of a hell. announcing it.1.el f. The good rece ived from prayer is not always understood by us until much time has gone by.
Prayer is at! anfcessary part of Iifc and therefore we need to prepare for
it. Preparati on is done thro ugh the process of thou ght called meditation. This
demands study in itself because it entails communicating with the ent ire Universe. But just as the workme n in Soloman's temple learn ed, that they had to unders tand one another and work together. so it is, that we must unders tand the
Universe and live in accord with its laws.
To do this we must talk w ith God the Infinite Int elli ge nce in medita tion . There
are many ways of doing this. hut one has been used for centuri es and it works. It
is this ... GIVE THANKS me ticulou sly for all the good you have. This is
logical because God being everything. how better could you recognize God than
seeing the va lue of all the good you have. This causes you to realize th at you are
a part of w hat God is . This line of thought leads you to desire more good. Then
ideas. know ledge and guidance come to show you how to accomplish you r
lksire.
You never know whe n you need to tum to God in prayer. A few years ago I
was driving down a Washington State Highway and we passed some big trees
loaded with beautiful apples. I pulled off the road where a man was putting applies in a baske t and I called to him.
"Can I huy some apples?"
"Nope" he replied . " You see, I'm stealing them too." Jus t then a man drove
up in a truck and yelled at us.
"What are you doing with my apples?" Well, my frie nd. who wasn't too intere sted in the apples in the first place wasn't about to ge t stuck in trouble over
them, so he yelled back:
" This gent leman to ld us that we could pay for the apples a t a fruit stand a half
a mile down the road ."
"Okay" said the man . " There's a stand in front of my house. If no ones there
just go up to the house and knock."
How did my friend know there was a fru it s tand down the road? I started
praying for guidance when I saw the man drive up. Yes, we need guidance at the
most unexpected moments.
I know that most people have the idea that they need to pray only when they
need something. T hey don't seem to understand that the Great Architect has
created all th ings in the Universe according to a plan of law and orde r. And that
plan is evo lving through law and order constantly. So being a part of the Universe all human beings mu st kee p in touch with the C reato r through meditation
and prayer.

For example. I had taught a cena in man how to meditate and pray. Bu t even
though he had learned to pray effectively. he would call me when he was great ly
di!>turhcd. It !>eems that in the middle of the night he got the idea that he needed
an aspirin. So he got up and took what he believed to be an aspirin. The next
morn ing his wife noticed a bottle setting out and asked hi m if he had taken a pill
during the night.
"yes I did." he said .. And I felt better ri g ht away. Why did you ask?"
"Well." she replied , 'Those pills were fo r my begonia~." Spu ttering and
choking he hurried to his doctor who !>aid :

11

"You haven 't got a thing to worry about. All you did wa s take the
equivalent of I 0 sacb of ba rn yard fertilizer."
After that he called me for prayer.
He rc is m y summa tion of our discussion:
God is indeed the Creator of the Unive r~e. includ ing a ll people and th ings:
God i!. Infi nite Intelligence and i~ ou r Source of all knowl edge. wisdom and understanding . .. through meditatio n we com municate with God o ur Source: God
c reated us with the respons ibility o f cho ice w hic h operates through the law o f
ca u ~c and e ffect. Cause and effect is our tool for opera ting all other laws.
My Brethren. brotherly love. relief. truth . patience and fortitude are not just
good ideas. T hey are based o n all the laws of the Universe. The history of mason~ and builders varifies it. And anyone who !>eeks to live a health y. happy and
abundant life m u\t incorporate these principles into their daily living.
Finally, my Brethren, "SEE THE GOOD AND PRA ISE IT" for in the gooJ
you !.hall see God. fo r God is good.

Necrology

It is fi tting and proper th at we pause fo r thes e few moment s this mo rn ing and
reflec t upon our journey alo ng the pathway of life - a nd that we pay homage to
those of our "traveling companions" who "having laid down their burdens to
rest fo r the evening," - " d id not rise with u~ in the morning" to answer the
Rol l.
On reflection. we see c learly that God gives to each and eve!)' time and season
changing beauties of its own: and from morning to night. as from the cradle to
the grave - is but a succession of c hanges so gentle and easy that we can
scarcely mark their progress.
And so it is with our departed Brethren that evening has come. and they have
lived through the full span and c hanging beauties of their time and season - and
they now know that the day that i!> feared as being the end of all things - is but
the Birthday of Eternity.
I t hink it not im probable that man, like the grub that prepare!. a chamber for
the winged thing it never has seen. but is to be - that man may have destinies he
does not fully understand - and that as the "sable curtains" of the "hidden
Wo rld beyond" a re drawn aside, so may our departed Brethren, ha ving shed
their earthly bod ies, be reborn into a far more magnifi ce nt and glorious being.

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Our grief at the passing of o ur Brethre n is deep-felt - and that is as it shoulcJ
be. for we have known them and have joume)'eJ with them for such a long while
and their companionship ancJ warmth and wit anJ love arc sorely missed - and
yet, is that not the way of things, that life as we know it must go on, and the journey mu st not cease. and that we must from time to time part company and go o n
different paths?
As we w ho are living go forward, succeeding to the gains of those who have
gone before us, graduall y we elevate the status of mankind - as coral polyps.
building one Life - one generation upon the work of another - gradually we
elevate ourselves from the darkness of the deep to the light above.
In o ur own time and season there shall come a day when we too shall " lay
down our burden .. to re st fo r the evening - and shall not rise in the morning to
answer the Roll. - In contemplation of that time, let us recall to memory the
closing paragraph from " Thanatopsis,'' by William Cu llen Bryant - "So live
that when thy summons comes to join the innumerable caravan , which moves to
that mysterious Realm . . . Thou go not, like the quarry - slave at night.
scourged to his dungeon, but sustained and soothed by an unfaltering trust . . .
Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch abo ut him, and lies down to pleasant dre ams ."
On having taken the Roll of Grand Lodge we find that since last we met. 488
of o ur Brethren have not answered the call, and yet we have called their names
clearly. We find that 10 of our Lodges lost 4 Brethren each; 24 Lodges have lost
3 Brethren each; 83 Lodges have lost 2 Breth ren each; and 210 Lodges have each
lost one Brother.
The ove rall list of o ur Brethren who have passed on is too lengthy to be gone
over here this morning. however a copy will be attached to our Report.
There arc certain of our Brethren who have joined the ''innumerable caravan· ·
who w il 1 be given s pecial mention this morning because of their service to Grand
Lodge. Among these are Past Grand M a~ters: Earl Warren. Leslie E. Wood,
Louis Drapeau, Joe L. Shell and Herbert A. Huebner.
Special Eulogies will be given fo r each of these distinguished Masons - Past
Grand Master Chester McPhee will be g iving the eulogy for Earl Warren; Past
Grand Master Ted Mcriam will give the eulogy for Les Wood; Past Grand Master
Guy Mize will give the eulogy for Lo uis Drapeau; Pa~t Grand Master Leo
Anderson will give the eulogy for Joe Shell: and Ralph Head will give the eulogy
fo r He rbert Huebner.
We will be calling on these Brethren in just a few mo ments , but first we want
to recognize others who have served Grand Lodge in various other capacities and one of these is Brother Newcomb Condee. perhaps better known to some as
Judge Condee. for it was in that capacity that he served fo r many years. Brother
Condee was appointed a Judge of the Los Angeles Municipal Court in 1933 by
then Governor Ja mes Rolph . He was later e levated. in 1941. to the Superior
Court and after serving in many civil and criminal departments. he spent the later
pan of his judicial career in Probate Court - and is widely known for his publication, in three volumnes entitled, "California Probate Practice." Brother
Condee may als o be best remembered by some as the founding Editor of the

California Freemason and which he continued as Editor of for over 20 years until
the time of his passing. The fact that the California Freemason has grown from
its inception in I 954 from a cin.:ulation of a lilllc more than I0.000 to its present
printing of ove r 200,000 is in no small measure, I'm sure, to Brother Condee' s
efforts . Brother Condee wa~ a distinguished Mason and served well his
Fraterni ty. Brother Condee ha~ been the recipient of many Masonic honors
including the 33rd Degree.
Another Brother not answering the call of the Ro ll is Wallace H. Fiske.
Brother Wally was a member of East Belt Lodge. No. 39 l of Tuolumne . He served a~ an Inspector. and at the time of hi s passing was an Assistant Grand
Lecture r.
Others serving Grand Lodge who have passed on are:
Revaend Harris Pillsbury - a member of Chico Lodge No. 111 . Brother
Pillsbury served as Grand Chaplain in 1945.
Me/her F. Ayers - a 50-year member of Lodi Lodge No. 256; servecJ as
Inspector.
J . Wilhur Comhes - member of Lassen Lodge, No. 149; appointed to the
Ce meteries Committee 1969 .
William J . Courtier - member of Sea~ide Lodge No. 504: served 1944 a~
Grand Orator.
Donald H. Smith - member of Monterey Lodge No. 217; 1971 Grievance
Committee.
Kenneth E. Morrison - membe r of Santa Ana Lodge No . 241; Constitution
Observance Committee.
George Uhler - Coalinga Lodge No. 387; 1972 Public Schools Committee .
William H . fame.1· - Patterson Lodge No . 488; 1970 Masonic Info rm at io n
and Re~ponsibility Committee.
Charles A. Thomaset - Vallee de France Lodge No. 329; 1949 Inspector of
Grand Lodge; 1952 Committee on Spanish Speaking Lodge~; 1956 Representative Na tio nal G rancJ Lodge of France; 1960 Masonic Information Committee .
Lester A. Price - Fillmore Lodge No. 379; 1946 Endowment Board.
Den;.il D. Kitchener - Delta Lodge No. 471; appointed Inspector in 1963.
This b the list of our Brethren reflec ted on Roll who have served Grand Lodge
in some capac ity in a Masonic way and I would now call for the Special Eulogies
for o ur Past Grand Masters .

13

GRAl"D LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

15

EULOGY
L OU IS C . DRAPEAU

By Guy 8 . Mize
In this quiet hour of rctl cction on the li ves of t hose who have served our craft
so well in years past, we tum ou r thoughts to Mm.t Wo rs hipful Louis Claude
Drapeau who wo uld have as ked for no higher title than that of Mas ter M ason. a
title he bore so well fo r 66 yea rs and 7 month~ o f the more than 88 years of life
allotted to him. Hi ~ was a life de voted to his fami ly. his profession, his country
and to the Mason ic Fraternity whic h he served w ith g reat distinct ion when elected to the o ffi ce of Grand Mas ter of the Grand Lodge of California in Octoher,

1951 .

In his stirring poem . 'The Com ing American.' Sam Walter Foss had o ne
dominant theme and he dosed each stanza with these words: " Bring me men."
He asked fo r men to match his mountains . his plains. h is prairies, his inland seas.
his forests. his valleys, hi s rivers - " Bring me men . "
Such a man was Louie Drapeau . He was a plain man. o f rugged physique and
c haracter. a man who lo ved the ou tdoors: and alt hough h is ad ult years were spent
in the legal fraternity and on the benc h as a judge in the courts. Lou ie lo ved to
spe nd time in the rugged mountains of ou r State and among the stately coastal
red woods a nd the gi:mt sequoias of the S ierra Nevadas. He trul y loved his native
S t<.1te and the grandeu r of its many beaut ies.
Louie was born in a small to wn in upper Sutter Count y and moved to Oakland
wi th his parents while s till <iyoung !au and there attended the public schools .
Orphanncd at the age of fifteen. and being adventurous in spirit, he moved to
Nevada to try the life o f a cowboy and, as he reminisced long afterward. in words
so typical of his robust and endless humor: .. , thought there wasn't anyone on
two feet 1 couldn't 1ic k and noth ing o n four feet I couldn't ride. I was wrong a~

LOUIS C. DRAPEAU
Grand Master - 195 1
HORN
August 30, 1885
Live Oak, California

DIED
December 19, 1973
Ventura, California

hell ."
After a stint a~ a mule skinner on a 20-m ule horax team at Daggett,
Californ ia. Louie returned to Oakl and and secured a job as office boy fo r U. S .
Senator George C. Pe rkins. T each ing h imse lf shorthand , Louie became Sena tor
Perkin' s kktary and administrativ e assistant and while in Washington. D . C.,
and always seeking to im prove himself, he atte nded and graduated from George town Unive rsity Law School in 19 13.
Returning to Californ ia, Louie accepted a job as cou rt reporter in the Superior
Court in Ventura. a c ity close by to Oak View where he e~tablished his be loved
ranc h home a nd w as to spend his remaining years .
Enter ing the practice of law, Louie, for a number of years. had the noted lawyer and aut hor of mystery novels, Erle Stanley Gard ner. a-; his law partner and
most inte resting, and on occas ion amus ing indeed, were the anecdotes of thi~ law
partnership as re lated by Lou ie in hi s inim itable and jovial style.
In 1934. Louie was appointed Building and Loa n Commissione r for the S tate
of California and in 1937 his talent s were furthe r recognized when he was
appo inted jud ge of the Superior Court in Ventura C o unt y. H is talents were again
recognized in 1949 when the then Governor of the State. Pas t Grand Master Earl

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Warren. appointed Lo uie a Justice of the Distric t Court of Appeal. Retiring from
the bench in 1955, Lou ie continued to serve the Superior Court a Judge ProTem until! illness forced him into full retirement.
During his long and distinguished legal career, Louie eas deeply interested in
the problems of youth and j uvenile delinquency and he was largely re sponsible
for the creation of the Los Prietos Camp for juvenile offenders in Ventura
County .
Louie was a family man. After his first wife passed away , he married Dorothy
Reese of Ventura and she was to become the mother of their five children, all of
whom survive their parents. Mrs. Drapeau had the distinction of being the
daughter of a Grand Master, David Reese, who was elected Grand Master in October, 1924 and then the wife of Louie who was elected in October, 1951. All
who knew Dorothy Drapeau loved her for her devotion to Louie and for her
willingness to be of service to him and the Fraternity.
Our brother applied for the degrees of Masonry shortly after he became 21
years of age a nd became a member of Oakland Lodge No. 188 on May 20. 1907.
In 1915 , he dimitted to San Buenaventura Lodge No . 214 and served a s its
Master in 1919 and 1920 . With the fonnation of Po insettia LOdge No. 633 in
Ventura, Louie dim itte d to it and served as Charter Master in 1926 and again as
Master in 1927. Always interested in Craft Masonry. Lo uie took plural
membership in Arahic Lodge No . 763 in 1956.
In the concordant bodies . Louie was a member of the York Rite Bodies in
Ventura and the Scottish Rite Bodies in Santa Barbara where he was coroneted
an Inspector General Honorary of the Thirty-third Degree in 1951. He also held
member~hip in Saint Gabriel Conclave, Red Cross of Constantine . Los Angeles,
California .
We revere the memory of this distinguished l'itizen and brother, not only
because of his attention to the duties of the many assignments he fulfilled in his
more than 66 years of Masonic membership. but also because of hi s firm belief in
the importance of the te achings of Masonry in the lives of its adherents. As a
speaker always in demand. Louie had the ability to speak lightly and then in a
few well chosen wo rds to lift and inspire his Brethren with his deep Masonic philosophies . Never one to hold himself aloof. he consta ntly sought to meet his
Bre thren on the le vel. He a ske d onl y that his Brethren be true in every respect to
the ir Maso nic o bligatio ns - but he asked onl y for that whic h he himself was
willing to offer - an example . my Brethren , worthy of all imitation.
Funeral services for our beloved Past Grand Master were conducted in
Ventura o n December 22. 1973 by the Reverend nnd Brother William Gilbert of
the Episcopal Church and by Poinsettia Lodge No. 633, F. & A. M .
We are indeed fortunate to have been able to number Louis Claude Drape au as
one of us and to have had the inspiration of his presence and his devotion to our
Fraternity . He has left us a legacy of inestimable value . We honor him for it.

GR.AND I.OIXi E Of CAUF Ol<NJ A

17

EUL OGY
L ESLIE E. WOOD

By Theod ore Merria n

··A~ a citizen you are enjoin ed to be exemp

LESL IE E. WOO D

Grand Master BORN
April 2, 1897
San Diego, Califor nia

1942
DIED

January 28. 1974
Sacramento, Califor nia

lary in the Jischa rge of your civil
dutie:. . . . a~ an individ ual you are L"harge d to practic
e the Jomes tic and public
virture~ . .. " Every Maste r Mason has
hcan.! these words , receiv ed this
enjoin mcnt and this charge . The :.even ty-sixt h Grand
Maste r of Ma!>on s in
Califo rnia heard these words for the first time in 1919
when Lcsl ie Earl Wood
becam e an Entere d Appre ntice Ma~on in Sequo ia
Lodge No. 349 in Oakla nd,
Califo rnia. Les Wood under stood we ll the prccep
l'i and teachi ngs of
Freem asonry , for Le~ Wood wa~ truly a Maste r
Ma~on anJ most certain ly a
Maste r of Public Servic e.
Brothe r WooJ receiv ed many Mason ic honor s, each
in recogn ition of the
effecti veness of his conce pt of servic e to our craft.
He receiv ed the highes t hon·
ors of both Scottis h Rite and York Rite Free mason
ry. He was corone ted an
Inspec tor Gener al Honor ar)' memb er of the 33rd Degre
e in 1957 and in 1959 he
was electe d to memb ership in the Red Cross of Const
antine . Brothe r Wood held
office s of great respon sibility in the course of his
Ma~onic servic e. In 1925 he
was elected as the first Maste r of newly forme d
Provid ent Lodge No. 609 in
Sacram ento.
Jn 1929 he was appoin ted Inspec tor of the then 22nd
Mason ic Distric t and in
1934 he becam e the Assist ant Grand Lectur er of the
Grand Lodge of Califo rnia,
prepar atory to being e lected that same year to be
Grand Lectur er. filling the
vacanc y create d by th e legend ary Tom Baker who
had served this Grand Lodge
contin uously as Grand Lectu rer from 1907. Brothe
r Wood was the third Grand
Lectur er o f thi~ Grand Lodge , and he left this impor
tant post in 1939 when he
was electe d Junior Grand Warde n of the Grand Lodge
of Ca liforni a. Succe ssively electe d as Senio r Grand Warde n and Deput y Grand
Maste r he was selecte d
by his Brethren on Octob er 15, 1942 to be their Grand
Maste r for the ensuin g
Mason ic year.
It is probab le, though . that Brothe r Wood receiv ed his
greate st person al satis·
faction in Mason ic servic e from his role of leadership
in the fonnat ion of Provi·
dent Lodge , becau se he wa~ a very fundam ental Mason
with st rong and s tenn
convic tion as to the essent ial role of each Mason ic
Lodge and of the vital nuture
and impor tance of Lodge leader ship.
Les Wood , as a s uccess ful young Sacram ento
busine ssman , ge nerous ly
loaned and gave o f hi~ time and talent to very active
ly partici pate in the public
servic e work of many organi zation s devote d to charita
ble and c haract er huildin g
purpos es. This partici pation . couple d with the recogn
ition by his peers of his
leader ship capabi lities in these e ndeav ors . led inevita
bl y to his entran ce into local
gover nment servic e. In 1948 he was elected as a City
Counc ilman in Sacram ento
where he served with di stincti on for a decad e . being
re-elec ted every two years
during that time. He served as Mayo r of the c ity
of Sacram ento in 1952 and
1953. In 1958 he was electe d to the Board o f Super
visors of Sacram ento Count y
and by re-elec tion in 1962 and 1966 served a total
of twelve years in this
impor tant capaci ty.

18

PROCEEDi l"GS O F THE

These arc but high light~ in the c areer of a most active and dedicated c itizen ,
but they are illustrative of the exemplary citizen, Leslie E. Wood .
Perhaps his devotion to public service was best described at the time of his
death when E. Henry Kloss, c hairman of the Board of Supervisor s of Sacrament o
County said, ·'He was a real gentleman whose interest in and love for his community and its people was nothing less than great."
Les Wood was a Western man. a strong man, a ma n of service and generosity,
a man o f integrity ... a man who wa~ not given to say ing "yes" when he meant
"no," and who was forthright in his stand on all moral issues.
Several years ago a Sacrament o journal had this to say about Les Wood, ·'He
is modest and unassuming , and will enter his duties with a determinat ion to learn
as much as it is possible to do . He will be concerned first of all about the welfare
of the city and will have no interest in pitting faction against faction against faction . He symbolizes the successful businessma n of America. He walks uprightly
before God and man, is a defender of American institution~ and a fighting c hampion of our way of life ."
Brother Leslie Earl Wood . . . Master Mason. He was truly exemplary in the
discharge of his duties and he practiced the domestic and public virtues with conv iction and with enthusiasm . His counsel and strength will be missed by this
Grnnd Lodge , but his contributio ns to our Grand Lodge and to the institution of
Freemason ry will long endure.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

EULOGY
HERBERT A. HUEBNER

By Ralph H. Head
On an early morning many years ago. a young Harvard professor stood at a
window of Cragie House in Cambridge, Massachusetts, where George Washington had once head4uartered and gazed out at the sloping lawn and the elms,
wondering if Washington might not also have stood there before. feeling unutterably alone and dejected. The young professor's wife had died three years
before, but he still longed for her because time had not softencJ his grief. "This
cannot go on," Henry Wadsworih Longfellow must have saiJ to himself. Life is
not an empty dream. SudJenly he began to write in a surge of inspiration that
which was to become one of the best loved and most widely read poems of all
times, "The Psalm of Life." It is the seventh and eighth verse s we tum to today
as we honor the memory of Herbert Alloway Huebner whose footprints are the
legacy of Cali fomia Freemasonry.
"Lives of great men al I remind us
We can make our lives sublime,
And departing leave behind us
Footprints on the sands of time.
"Footprints that perhaps another
Sailing o'er life's solemn main.
A forelorn anJ shipwrecked brother,
Seeing may take heart again."

HERBERT A. HUEBNER
Grand Master - 1970
BORN

March 21, 1902
Washington. D.C.

DIED

March 25, 1974
Los Angeles , California

The footprihts of Past Grand Master Herbert Huebner are a legion. They
began with his birth in Washington, D. C., in 1902. They ended in Los Angeles
on March 25, 1974, but their trail is not cast in sand but indelibly in the hearts
aml minds of those who knew and loved him.
His early schooling in Fresno, California. was followed by a law degree at the
University of Southern California and what was to be a brillant career as a patent
lawyer commenced in 1926. In 1925 he married Loma Pierce from which union
came a son. Harlan. who would follow in his father's footsteps as his law partner, in due time as Master of the san1e Lodge, Wilshire Lodge No. 455. and as a
valued contributor to the work of Grand Lodge.
After his raising in Wilshire Lodge and his service as Master in 1944, Herbert
Huebner was appointed to the Grievances Committee which activity was followed by energetic and productive work on the History Committee and as
chairman of the Charters and Public Schools Committees. In October of 1967 he
was elected Junior Grand Warden and thence electively elevated to Grand Master
on October 16, 1970. His biography pub I ished in the proceedings of the annual
communication of the Grand Lodge in 1971 proclaimed him to be "a Mason's
Mason." probably as noble a tribute as may be given a man. His leadership ability was further recognized by his election 10 the chairmanship of the Conference
of Grand Masters in Washington, D. C. When his work as Grand Master

20

PROCEED!l\iGS OF THE

concluded. we follow his footprints to the Committee o n Policy and General
Purposes where his service continued to the emL
His Masonic activities were expansive: a member of the Los Angeles Bodies
of the Scottish Rite where he became Venerable Master in 1973 and wa!>
coroneted with the 33rd degree in December of that year. He was a member of
the York Rite Bodies. Red Cross of Constantine, Al Malaikiah Shrine and
member of the Board of Governors of the Shriners Hospital. and a member of the
DeMolay Legion of Honor.
His was a complete life. With his love and Jevotion to his family and his invaluable contribution to Freemasonry came his dedication to his profession , serving on boards and a~ president and chairman of patent law assoc iations. For
more than 25 years he was a member of Los Angeles Rotary Club. He was a
Presbyterian in his religious faith .
If there is to be an epitaph written on the life and times of Herbert Huebner. let
it be his own words as Grand Orator before the Grand Lodge in 1954:
.. Brethern all. may I entreat you: noble thoughts and acts display that
our Order in its way may show the world. that in this day of strife and
discord and contention , there is a force with no dissension in its ranh.
" That temperance is an attribute no good man should e ' r refute. that
fortitude is a strong man' s way of advancing truth and men to sway toward prudence and the broader line of justice and God· s law divine ."

G RAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

21

EULOGY
JOSEPH L. SH ELi.

By Leo E. Andcr!>on

JOEL. SHELL
Grand Master BORN
February 18. 1892
C hapman , Kansas

1959
DIED
May 5, 1974

San Diego , California

To ~peak of a highly va lued an<l beloved friend in th e ~e ce remon ie~ is very
difficult for me, and if I stumble or pause to regain my composure, please bear
with me .
On the other han<l, to be a..,ked to speak o f Joe Shell is an honor an<l a privilege. He wa~ elected Gran<..! Ma~ter of t hi~ Grand Lodge in October of I 959 an<..1
duri ng that Masoni<.: year the Brethren were privileged to enjoy hb great ~en se of
humor. his sound counsel and advice and his friendship and love of his
fellowmen.
The story of Joe Shell is the story of the greatness of America. He wa~ b0rn on
a fa rm near Cahpman. Kan!>a~. Later hi ~ family moved to California where h i~
father was a tru~t cd and succe~sful Ind ian Service Agent.
Joe attended the public schools in San Diego. received his Bachelor of Arb
Degree in the University of California at Berke ley and entered Law School there
but had to :-top for lack of funds .
That did not stop Joe. He wa~ a great admirer o f Abraham Lincoln. and he
took Lincoln's life as a chart fo r hi~ own life . He read law by himself a~ Lincoln
and ~o many other de termined men had t.lonc before.
He supported himself as a surveyor and 4ualified a ~ an Indian Agent an<l wa~
assigned to the State of Washington.
During this period be married his wife. "Ne ll." as we all know her and here
began a long and wonderful marriage. To Nell ant.I her daughter, Cheryl Ann
Cook ant.I Son .• Joseph C. Shell we extend our love and friendship.
When he felt that his study of law was ready for use he returned to California
and worked in the co urt:- a~ a Deputy Probation Officer and then a~ a Court
Clerk, took the bar exam ination and pas:-ed it in 1922.
Then, like Lincoln. he ran for office as a judge. He wa' elected, later ran for
office in the Superior Court and was e lected and after that he was re-electet.I time
after time without o pposition, proof of his j udicial standing .
Masonically. Joe was a member ant.I Past Master of San Diego Lodge No . 35 .
In the York Rite he was Past High Priest of San Diego Chapter. In the Scottish
Ri te he was Coronated a Th irty Third Degree Mason. In the Red Cross of Constantine. he was a Past Sovereign. In the Eastern Star be was a Past Patron . Most
important of all. he was a Past Grand Master of thi' Grand Lodge.
But I have to remind myself not to be too 'erious today because Joe wou ld not
want me to do so. He was Senior Grand Warden the year I was Grant.I Master ,
and we had a lot of fun together.
Joe always carried a shrill police whistle with him and when he thought I had
talked long enough . he would blow this whi,tle at me. Believe me. we had a lot
of laughs together. That was typical of Joe Shell. His great sense of humor, his
infectious laugh and his sincere friendship cau,ed him to be beloved by all of us .
These arc the great ba lance wheels of this life.

22

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

But Joe could be serious. I will never forget the night he took the East in Garfield Lodge No. 566 and raised his son Joe . I was in the West and when hb so n
Joe was a<;kcd to kneel and pray. he gave a beautiful oral prayer telling the virtues of his father and his mother. Joe, Sr. couldn't talk for a while.
This is just a brief story of Joe Shell. There is so much more than could be told
abo ut a great man, a distinguished judge and an outstanding American.
He touched our lives and we are the better for it.
But now - to a beautiful garden this friend has gone
To the land of perfect rest
His work is done and the setting sun
Has sealed his life's long quest, and
Now the laborer's task is over
Now the battle-day is past
Now upon the farther shore
Land the voyagers at last
Father , in thy grac ious keeping
Leave we now our Brothe r. sleeping.
He is not gone, he is just away. He will always live in our hearts and
memo ries .
And so. today. we sal ute Joseph Lieb Shell .

GRAND LODGE OF C ALIFORN IA

23

EULOGY
E ARL WARREN

By Chester MacPhce
Earl Warren, the twenty-third District Attorney o f Alameda County; the nineteenth Attorney General of the State of California; the thirtieth Governor of the
State of California ; and the fourteenth Chief Justice of the United States Supreme
Court was the sixty-ninth Grand Master of Maso ns in Califo rnia and o ur Senior
Past Grand Master.
A member of Sequois Lodge No. 349 of Oakland, California for more than
fifty-four years, he was laid to rest with the heroes in Arlington Ceme tery on July
12, 1974.
Earl Warren was a public servant; dedicated to the service of the public. a man
of strong personal convictions, he answered to himself for his acts .
His great dedication. ho nor, and integrity were of oak and rock and as lasting
as the ages.
In the many public offices Earl Warren filled, he discharged his du ties wi th
outstanding ability and with great devotion to the welfare of the people . As he
saw this duty he never faltered or compromised. His heart contained well springs
of human pity and sympathy .
His singular purity of character, his exactitude, his greatness of heart and
mind ; his love for human kind without limitation of race and creed; his philanthropy and splendid achievements - all of these, my Brethren. constitute a
reco rd which enriches the annals of our state and nation, and, indeed . o ur great
Fraternity of Freemasons everywhere . At all times he gave his strength W the
weak , his substance to the poor, his sympathy to the suffering and his heart to
God.
During the period he served as Governor of California, and prior thereto, Earl
Warren and I were good friend . In 1946. he appointed me a mem ber of the
California State Real Estate Commi ss ion. one of the highest honor~ that could
come to me in my profession. He re-appointed me in 1950. I knew his family
well and des pite his man y frnternal and civic duties. he re~erve d adeq uate ti me to
provide the fatherly leadership and lo ve and affection for his wonderful fam ily .
It was my good fortune as Grand Master in 1969 to be in his own Lodgeroo m
at Sequoia Lodge in Oakland surrounded by the officers of his Lodge and other
well wishers to present him with his 50-year pin .
Indeed. Earl Warren served his beloved Masonic Fraternity with a fervor and
zeal equaled by few. He was one of California's great Grand Mas te r~ .
And now he ha~ gone to labor in the vineyard of eternal life .
Eat:h day mo re than 100.0(X) human feing s finish their earthly existence and
pass into the unknown beyond . It was Job who cried out, "[f a man die . will he

EARL WARREN
I935

Grand Master BORN

March 19, 1891
Los Angeles, California

DIED
July 9, 197-l

Washington, D.C.

live again?"
My Brethren . life and death are one. Imperceptibly they blend into one
another. Someone once said. ·· 1f there be a design in this world and , indeed . in
this universe. there must be a designer. "

24

PROCEEDINGS OF T HE

Yes. man 's life in this world is but a preparation for the fu ture.
Father G iovanni in 1513 said . ..There is radiance and glory in the darkness,
c ould we but see, and to see . we have only to look ...
My Brethren. compassion. love and understanding are Masonic virtues .
Perhap~ Elbert Hubbard said it best in hi~ .. lnvorntion to Man: ..
.. All the love I know is Go<l's love
All the forgiveness I know b
God's fo rgive ness. I understand
You. because you ua part of
Myself. You may like me or not.
It makes no difference. I love you."
My Brethren , Earl Warren gave of himself in love for the less fortunate an~ i.n
everything he.: undertook. His work in Masonry was love at its best. Master of his
Lodge. leadership in the concordant bodies, Potentate of the Shrine - ~rand
Master - all. as each o ne of us so well know. truly all a labor of love . The Judgment of everyone of us. my Brethren, rests solely with our supreme GranJ
Master.
And so we. in the Grand Louge of California. pay o ur respects to this great
and good man . The future w ill assess. more ade4uate ly than we now can do. the
great loss which we have :-.ustained .

GRA:-.ID LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

PAST MASTERS, MASTERS AND WARD ENS
OF CONSTITUENT LODGES
Lodge
Name
No.
Well s. George Frederick ... .
3 Poner. Loyal Clay ........ .
3 Schroder. Harold Carl ..... .
8 Smith. Harold ........... • .
9 Burt. Aaron ............. . .
9 Young. John Robert ....... .
9 UmJerhill. Marion Ephram .. .
9 Shaver, Ronald Barr. Sr. ... .
12 Wyman. Harold Gregg .
13 Taylor, Thuma~ Hubbard ... .
16 La n~den . John Allen .... .. .
16 Vanriper. Vernon Elery .... .
17 Faron. Rene ............ ..
lli Poggi. Joseph Peter ....... .
2 1 Gosling . Richan.I ......... .
24 Whitley . Orville Mill, ... .. .
25 Devore . George Gii.leon .... .
27 Hicks, Frank Enoch . Sr. ... .
30 Fracchia. G iovanni ........ .
30 Stun<: . Hugh ......... .... .
32 Jan~n. Walter Kay ....... .
33 Cruickshank. Clarence :..1 .•..
35 Rickon. Fred John Hem)' . .. .
35 Shell, Joseph Lieb ........ .
37 l\kBain. Eme't Elmer .. ... .
42 S ilverman, !:dwaru badore ..
43 Mooney. R. Fay ..... . ... . .
51 Atkinson. Ray Cook . .. . .. . .
59 Chapman. Walter Win,more.
61 Spencer. Glenn Howard , . . . .
61 Porter. Howard lmmanul'l .. .
64 Langness. Nonnan Lauritz . . .
64 Ru1mey. William Madi,on ..
70 Nossen . William Karlman .. .
76 Albert . George Osten ...... .
79 Hendcr,on, Jame' William. Jr.
8 1 Patton. Charle• Erne•! . .... .
87 Nelson . Melvin Clarencc ... .
87 Bitcon . Jame' ............ .
93 Money, Harvey Maxwell ... .
99 Brown. John E . . .... . .... .
110 Parker, Harry Merwin ..... .
11 0 Bollinger. Ernest Mu ri in ... .
11 2 Davis. Jame, Arthur ... . ... .
11 3 Wright. Melbourne ........ .
11 3 Forester, Will iam Ki"ick .. .
117 Lindfeldt. Claus Fre derick .. .
11 7 Moon. Harold Euward . . ... .
120 Kalajian . Charle• . .. . .. ... .

Date o f
Death
5-22-74
10-27-73
3-5-74
5.2 1.74
1· 11 -13
8-11-73
12-18-73
2- 13- 74
4·9-74
5- 18-74
7-7-73
1-3-74
2-4-73
5-23-74
2- 10-74
12-24-73
4·25-74
1- 19 -74
7-16-73
4-27-74
12-30-73
6-6-74
9-2-73
5-5-74
10· 15·73
8·31 -73
1-1 2-74
li- 15-73
12-17-73
I 1-19· 73
12- 16·73
7-2 ·73
10-7-73
9- 17-73
2-25-74
12-24-73
6·18-74
7·26-73
5. 29.74
6-4 -74
2-20·74
11-27-73
I0- 15-73
12-2-73
5- 15-74
5-30-74
5-1 6-74
7- 1-74
3- 13-74

Lodge
Name
No.
122 DeMartini. John Henry .... .
123 We,ton. Rob3rt .......... .
123 S mead. Llu)d Everen ..... .
124 Tomaier. Charles ......... .
124 S hour, Roger Stafforu ..... .
124 Jone,, Archie Lewellyn .... .
124 Hedge. Stanley Earl ....... .
128 C lark . Jesse 0 ............ .
129 John.,cn. Charles A ........ .
129 Everhart . Joseph Nicola• ... .
!35 Field. James Cyrus ........ .
!35 Dietz. Walter Ernest .... . .. .
I 39 Mahr. Frederick Joseph . ... .
139 Atkin,. Bertram Stanl} .... .
139 Flei,chcr. Will iam AuguM .. .
140 Shumway. Harry George ... .
144 Wall . Edward Francis ..... .
144 HutchiMm . Harold Hamilton.
Jr ............. .... . . ... .
145 Smith , Russell Lynn . .
145 C u nn i ngham . William
John\Oll .......... ....... .
146 Searway. hiah Brenton .... .
146 Boulware. Verne Amaden .. .
146 ~tclli ,. William J ......... .
14 7 Jnhmon. Ralph J .......... .
149 Couen. Merrill Dee ....... .
149 Woo<l . John Floyd .... . .. . .
149 Combe, , J. Wilbur ...... . . .
150 Burnett. Howard Ve rnon ... .
156 Jone', Ru s"~ l I Nixon ..... . .
164 Sawyer. Francis Earl . ..... .
166 Knight. Fred William ... ... .
166 Goldman . Oscar G ........ .
166 Rnbhim. Theodore . .... . .. .
166 Manning. Charles Henry ... .
16!! Kelly. Raymo nd George ... .
168 Ri>hel. Arlington Earl ..... .
169 Astor, Albert Samuel ...... .
175 Rebslock. George Henry . .. .
17!! Dunno:ycr. Lee Charles .. . . .
179 Hood . Richard A.......... .
179 Parsons, Ne il M ..... . .... .
180 Drake. Paul Eugene . . .. ... .
18 1 Porter. George Kabric k . . .. .
183 Garfield. Jame; Je.sie . . .. . .
18-1 Wallace . Robert G . .. .... . .
1!17 Pare. Carl W ......... . . . . .
192 McAdams. Gordon Earl . ... .

Date o f
Death
3-29-74
10- ~9- 73

8·26-73
10· 19-73
12· 18-73
12- 13-73
5- 13-74
7-2fi·73
R-23 -73
1-30-74
2-3 -74
11 -30-73
7-21-73
2- 10-74
5-3 1·74
12-9·73
9.30.73
5-27- 74
2-9-74
4-18-74
8-20· 73
!!-S-73
7.9.73
3-20·74
4-19·74
11 -6-73
7-24 ·73
10- 16·73
1· 2-74
11 -9 -73
12-20-73
12· 28·73
1- 11 -74
2-23-74
1-20·74
1-19-74
5- 18-74
12-15-73
10-16-73
1·25-74
I 1·6-73
11 - 10-73
1-30-74
8·22·D
3. 4. 74
I0- 14-73
6- 13-7J

Lodge
No.

Name

Date of
Death

Si:haucr. Daviu Huward .. .. . o-21 -74
·'·28-74
Codoni. Lc,Jic Roy .... ... .
7- 17-7J
Morgan. George Lincoln .. . .
1-5-74
Rodger,, Mdvin Carmen ... .
Duran! . Alton T .......... . 7-25-73
2-26-74
McMullen. Milton B . . ..... .
3-19-74
Young. Lawrence L. ...... .
6 - 14-73
Wheeler, Howard Jul ian ... .
Castner. Ralph W ......... . 10-22-73
.l·l0-74
Whealey. Cnlon Carlyle .. . . .
202 Taggart. Jame~ De:icon .... . 9- 10-73
20.'i Glick, Charles Edger . .... . . 7-23-73
10-2-73
205 Hollenberg. Frank George .. .
8-16-7J
207 O\bom. Arthur S . .... . ... .
2-22-73
209 Prcu~s. Bernhardt Rudolph ..
1- 10-73
214 Mu' '· Earl Edward . .. ..... .
5-9-74
2 14 Steller. Walter Raymond ... .
8-7 -73
217 Brown. Ronald W .. .. ..... .
9-12-73
217 Htlben. John W .......... .
4-10-74
217 Allen, William F.... . ..... .
6·12-74
217 Smith, Donald H ........ . . .
220 Cloud. Garnet Bruce ...... . 10- 14-73
8-1 -73
224 Rauman. John Truman ..... .
5·28-74
225 McCutcheon. William Hugh .
5-22-74
225 Johnson. Herbert Di,tin ... . .
1-11-74
226 Davis. Earl Augu't .. .. .... .
9-6-73
216 Wolhert, Leslie Ewd ...... .
2-4-74
226 Cruikshank . Reece Ah::\ander
6-3-73
221:! Lowe. Grover Cleveland . .. .
5 -25-74
228 Ko pp. Fred ........... ... .
229 Nivarel, RaymonJ Henry ... . 11 -18-73
230 Stafford. Kenneth Albert ... . 11 -20-73
7-27-73
232 Davis. Simpson "M ....... .
6-26-74
23.3 Shafer. Stanley B .. ....... .
2-26-74
234 Whitlock. Joshua .. .... ... .
230 Ramsay . Ho ward . . .. ..... . 12- 11-73
241 Mo rrison. Kenneth Ebeneze r . 12-14-73
1-31-74
241 Yo ung. Carl Lock . ....... .
4-2-74
241 Ro'" Raymond Renton .... .
1-2-74
243 Fleming. Arlie Ru"ell ... .. .
1-26-74
24 3 Keim. Henry John ...... • ..
2<W Warner, William L ....... . . 12-18-73
8-31-73
245 Cook, Walter William . .... .
4-2-74
245 Farrar. Frederick Leland . .. .
5-21-74
245 West. Rii:hard Fr:ml..lin .... .
2-12-74
246 Boyes . Vernon Allen ...... .
1-22-74
247 Ellithorpe. Philip Banforth .. .
9-21-73
2-18 Sloss. Warren M .......... .
3-13-74
25.' Tadlock. Thomas Rilford . .. .
8 - 111-73
256 Newfield. Melville Warren ..
250 Ayers. Me lher Forrest ..... . 10-16-73
2-22-74
259 Am,tutz. Harry Peter . ..... .
3-12-74
259 Daum. Charles Henry .. ... .

19'.!
193
194
194
198
198
198
199
201
201

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDI NGS Or TH E

26

Lodge

No.

Name

Date of
Death

259 Johnson. Ralph E<lwarcl .... . I I ·21 -73
1l-2 -73
2M Dinne,, Hen Thnmp,on .... .
·' ·30-74
267 O,lcr. Alhcrt ......... .... .
2· 19-7.!
272 Tra,k. Tallman Harlow. Sr..
1-25-74
272 Greeley. Fred Clinton ..... .
273 Amann. William Jo hn ..... . 12- 16-73
1-9·7.!
27.! Erwin. Rolx:rt William .. . . . .
2- 111-7.!
27.! K innebrc"'. Marcu' Edwarcl .
5-22-74
277 Claasse n. Gu' ....... ..... .
.'i·l0-74
283 Hoffman. Harry Eclward ... .
286 Homby. Ernc't Richard .. .. . 4-27-74
6·4-7.!
288 Dennis. Alonzo G ........ . .
3-2 -74
290 Mo,ley, Ernc't Raymond ... .
I 1·6-7J
291 Teague. Donald Sp.'.nccr ... .
292 Vodden. Edward William .. . 12· 29-73
5· 22-74
295 Kerr. Jo-;cph Leroi ........ .
296 Newton. Earl Recd ........ . 12 -23· 73
2% Bia~ . Elmer Hcnf) ....... . 3- 10-74
2-3-74
299 Baker. John W., Jr. ...... . .
4-9-74
300 Brew>ter. Ja<:k A ........ . . .
4- 19 -74
300 Prenderga'I. Jo;eph S . ..... .
302 Wam. haai: John ...... ... . IC}.31-73
9- 18·73
303 Guthrie. John Hiram ..... . .
4-14 -74
304 Larsen, Lars Peter ........ .
3-4-74
307 Paterson. John Edward ..... .
5-22-74
309 Robinson. John Ha)den .... .
7·-1-73
312 Said. Harry Bellamy ...... .
312 Nicholson. Neil Carl ...... . 9-21-73
312 Hillman. Lewis Poncr .... . . 12-21 -73
7-3-73
313 Bagle). Roy Lenn ....... . .
2-8-74
315 Mc Millan. Trcvellick Alben .
8-22-73
319 Follendore. Conrad Elekiel ..
321 Hansen. Harold Christian . .. . 12-30-73
2-16-74
321 Orloff. Edwin Emil ....... .
8·13-73
322 Romick. Maurice D ....... .
2-18-74
325 Woodnutt. Lloyd Hale .... . .
9-9-73
329 Thoma>~t. Charle' . . ..... .
8-12-73
330 Muir. Jame' Duguid . . ..... .
1-27-7.!
335 Cole. Julian Norman ...... .
6-7-74
335 Driscoll. Ben Comd iu' ... . .
6 -27-74
339 Ritterbu,ch. John W ....... .
4-5 -74
).! 1 Snndgra''· Fred Carlisle ... .
6 -7-74
3.!l Paranteau. George Raymond.
8- 15-73
34-i C lau;en, Charle:. Oliver .. . . .
9-19-73
3.!-1 Howe. t-.krrill Nathan ... . . .
344 Cohn . L•lui' Jud"'° . ... ... . 11-2-1-73
6 -26-74
347 Summer. Tho mas Holden .. .
351 Feller. George Willard . .... . I0-14-7.l
351 Yo ung, L,.:,lie W .......... . 10-14-73
6-8-74
355 Gamet. Enos Leonard ..... .
11-2-73
358 Kiechk. Albert ...... .... . .
358 Thompson. Edwanl Pevey .. . 12- 19-73
3-25-74
358 GulbranM: n. Holger .. .. ... .

Name

Date of
Death

Lodge
No.

Otto. Eclgar Wi,eman . . .... .
Weymnuth. Ralph Cerbalcy ..
McDaniel. J eny Van ..... . .
Naylor. Ed" in Anhur .. .. . .
Raah. Werner Jnhn .. . . . . . . .
Hagerman . Donald Emc' t .. .
PallCN>n. Anhur Lisle ..... .
365 BonJc,on. John Argyle .... .
366 Foley . Norman Sanfor<l ... . .
367 Baile). Elton Conver\e ... . .
36R Harda,.ay. Irv) Wayne . .. . .
368 Smith. Morgan Noy'e ..... .
369 Vail. Da vie! Gihon .. . ..... .
370 Ell i, , Duncan S inclair .... . .
371 Bu,cher. Willard H . . . .... . .
371 Schwartz. Paul S . . ..... . .. .
372 Cree. Frank E. .... .. .. . .. .
H2 Ru, h . Jame' L. ...... . .... .
37~ Wolf. David Lnuis ........ .
374 Sirbu . Abraham Blackburn ..
375 Cruick,hank. C larence M . .. .
376 Ritterbu\h, Kirk Richard . .. .
377 Whitney . Haro ld Raymonu ..
377 Blankcn,hip. Roy Sanford .. .
378 Hane). Will ia m Erne't ..... .
379 Bur\on. Leslie G .. . . .. ... . .
379 Mumme. Cae,ar T . . ...... .
379 Roderick. Bert W ...... • ...
379 Price. Lester Allen . ....... .
380 Swam. Freil R .. Sr..... .. .
387 Uhler. George Franklin . . .. .
387 Horine. William Lewi ' .. . .
387 Bail ey. Jame' Orville ..... . .
390 Harm . George Rn' s ... . . .. .
392 Hill. John E .. . .. . .. ... .. . .
392 Slack. Charle' K . .. .... .. . .
392 Jaffry . Thuma' Y ......... .
393 Sheclwill. Fred Charles . .... .
393 John,nn. LeRoy WalfrccJ ... .
394 Ruller. John Hennan ... ... .
394 Lisenby. William Thoma,, Jr.
394 Mom,. Frederick William . Jr.
399 Jeffe"on . Edward Mi lton ...
401 Macka y. Dont1'an Vincent . .
402 Fifield. Neil L. . . . .. . ..... .
405 Church . Jame' Will iam . . . . .
405 Dawl'On, Hurry Edwin .. . .. .
405 Towner. George Edward . Sr .
405 Ball, Ralph Crenshaw ..... .
406 Lamphier, Joseph D ....... .
406 Hawonh . Daniel F ...... . . .
406 Amheim. Roy Louis ..... . .
409 White. Clifforu Frnnklln . .. .

5· 12-74
9-21 .73
12- 13 -73
l -22·74
J -8-74
1·9· 74
7-7-73
7-31 -73
2- 1-74
7· 16-73
2· 20-74
6 -.'i-74
4-3-74
.!-26.74
5- 19-74
5-B-74
9.3.73
2-21 -74
12-17 -73
1-12-74
6·6·74
2-20·74
5·2 H· 74
6-12 · 74
3-26-74
10·5-73
10- 14.73
6 -2 ·74
6·26-74
8·5-73
8·22-D
2-24- 74
5.9.74
9-2 R· 73
I 1- 15-73
12-25-73
8·.l0-73
10- 15-73
2-28-74
2·2 1-74
6·5· 74
6 -7·74
12-4-73
3-22-74
3- 14 -74
10·24-73
11 · 19-73
1-29-74
6-28-74
11·12-73
3-26·74
6-1 R-74
12·30-73

41 1
411
.! l 1
4 12
41.'i
417
.!18
419
419
.!20

Lodge

No.
358
362
362
362
362
363
363

Name

Wi l,on. Harry Charle> . . . . . .
Kelley, Joseph ......... . . .
Zeidcr\ . Walter HenJ) . .. . . .
Jacob, , William Lester . .. . . .
Blanc het . Henry C lay . ... .. .
Lande r\. Rohert Roy .. .. . . .
Urban . William Louis . . ... .
Sleuman, G. V . ........ . . .
HentlcN>n. C. N .. ... .. . .. .
Sherwund , Reginald Harold ..
420 Gordon, Philli p AlexancJer . . .
421 Stoop,, Earl Thomas .. . . . .
423 Parker. Mil frcd Johnsnn ... . .
426 Main . Norman F ...... . . . . .
429 Jone,, William Ellis .... ... .
429 Wright, Percy Charles .. . . . .
431 Harlow, E . George ....... . .
433 Badley . We~le) Wade .... .
437 Hea<l. Jame' Edward . . . . . . .
.!41 Wahton. Tho ma' Lo renzn .. .
4-i I Denni'. Gera Id . . ..... . . . . .
-145 Huebner. Hert-.:n Alloway .
445 McWhmne y. Win fred Clyde .
445 Dithridge , Andrew Morrison .
4-iR Ca mpbell . Donald ... .. ... .
.!-18 Pacheco. Leland . . . .... . . . .
.!50 Gib,on. Erne't r>.inicl ... . . .
-151 Dowker. George Oswald . .. .
.!55 Hahn. Arnold Edward ..... .
-158 Jordan. Emmcn Ephriam ... .
459 Stevem. Otto Ja me s ... . . .. .
460 Patter,on. Levi Marion .. .
4n I Schroeder. Anhur Henry . . . .
462 Ep>tein. Abe B . ...... . .. . .
462 Kickhofel. Edwin Lee . . . .. .
462 West. !'rank Mainero .. . . . . .
463 John'o<lll. Edwin P .• Sr . .. . . .
463 Ro,'o<1. Jo hn W . ...... . . .. .
464 John'°n. WillarJ Callen .... .
4n4 Clark. Samuel Granger . . . . .
465 Ellithorpe . Rohen Carl . .. . . .
465 Puma, Joseph Guy .. .... . . .
.!66 Owen , , Ham id Alfred.
467 Gallagher. William Redel) . . .
468 Shea. W illard Wright .. . . . . .
47 1 DeVol . Arthur Eugene
47 I Kitc hen, , DenLil DeLoach . . .
473 Milam. Will iam Henry .... . .
475 Johnwn . John Thoma' . . . .. .
.!75 Gudmundson. Paul Theodore
477 McConaughy. Wesley WarcJ .
.!77 Parker. Guy Charles.
478 PeteNin. Harl) C. . ... . . . . .

27
Date of
Death
k-4.73
12· 12· 73
4-29-74
2-26-74
10·20-73
6·25-74
12-26-73
5- 1. 74
l!-20-73
7.4.73
5 -1 2-74
1-1 .i .74
4-30-74
3- 14.74
k- 19·73
10-25·73
5-.!-74
I0-2· 73
7-8-73
l(}.9-73
4· 20-74
3-25- 74
l 1·24-73
3-1 K-74
l -J-74
1-4· 74
1-26-7 4
12-7-73
I 1-10-73

9 .2. 73
2·8 -74
6-J -74
9-J0.73
1-2·74
2-17·74
5.2J. 74
3 -1 0·74
5-7-74
7- 12-73
3-3 1-74
7.17. 73
9· 19-73
1- 24-74
11 -28·73
6 - 14 -74
10.29-73
2·26-74
3-24-74
5- 12-74
12- IJ-73
7- 16-73
3-19·7.!
7· l l-7 3

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
479
480
481
485
485
486
487
487
488
489
489
491
492
492
492
497
498
498
499
500
500
502
503
504
505
509
510
511
512
5U
51!!
520
524
528
530
532
532
534
542
543
545
545
546
547
548
548
551
554
554
557
557
558
558
558

Name

LeVake. Jae~ ..
Wil"><>n. Reginald Beaumont
Benamati. Laurence Dominic
Galley. William D .........
Perry. J. L ................
Kimball. Floyd Lewis ......
Ward. Frank Alan .........
Allison. John Ha,well ......
James, William Harold .....
Roberts, David Samuel .....
Berndt. Hen!)' Gustave .....
O'Brien. John Emmen ......
Howard. Melville Herbert ...
Johnson. Elmer Harvey .....
Oliver. Hubert Allan .......
Sullivan. James Spencer ....
Eichenberger. Carroll Norman
Steel, Carlton Homer .......
Culbertson. Han1· Winfield ..
Mu,ctti. Italiano ...........
Armando. Em est J .........
Engholm. Myron .........
Wooblaycr. Wilbert H ......
Courtiour. William John ....
Rogers. Frank Millard ......
Oliver , Anthony Joseph .....
Rylander. Charles Raymond .
Noland. Paul Edison .......
Hatton. Cullin A ...........
Shimp. Harry E ............
Parker. Warren Richmond ...
Krowech. Harold Harvey ....
Thoma>. La Yem Marcel ....
Harris . Willis S ........
Johnson. Ora Alvin . . .. .. ..
Muirhe ad . George Arthur ...
Hoatson . Vanon Lionel ....
DuPertius. Charles Beverly ..
Bunce. Reginald . .........
Hohden, William Thomas ...
Brown, Kenneth Marsh .....
Searway . I. Brent .. . .......
Hahn . George .. . ....... . ..
Swirles. Thomas Scott . ... .
Howard . Edgar Frunk .. . . . ..
Sebring. Andrew Davis .. . ..
Vincent. Ralph B. .. .......
Wood s , Jack Lyman . . .... . .
MacKen zie . John K ........
Lowe, Olan Floyd.
Jenkins. James Charles .....
Newcomer. Henry A .. . ... ..
Duncan. Jame; E . .... . . ...
Berns. Ira C . . . .. . . .. . . . . . .

Date of
Death

Lodge
No.

4-5-74
1-28-74
12-28-73
10-29- 73
4-16-74
4-30-74
9-22-7J
1-22-74
9-18-?J
10- 19-73
2-26-74
12-6-73
1-4-74

565
565
568
570
577
577
577
578
579
580
583
585
585
585
586
587
587
584
590
593
593
594
596
596
600

9-18-7.~

8-10-73
3-10-74
5-28- 74
6-28-74
11-26-73
l0-18-7 -~
2-27-74
10-12-73
8-12-73
324-74
4-12-74
9-16-73
2-20-74
1-1 R-74
4-6-74
1-9-74
11-10- 73
5-19-74
12-6-73
2-26- 74
4-24-74
1-7-74
5-4-74
10-16-73
11-3-73
3-24-74
7-30- 73
8-21-73
6- 15-74
1-30-74
10-6-73
4-2-74
6-13-74
3-11-74
6-6-74
l 1-18-73
5-23 -74
11-29-73
12-6-73
1-21 -74

602
602
605
605
605

605
607
flJ7
608
609
610
611
612
614
614
616
617
61!!
619
621
622
6"~
L~

622
622
623
625
625
626
626

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name

Barstow, Daniel Gale.
Rathbun. Emmel Alvah.
Long. Edward Wesley.
Su> man. Louis :-1 ..........
Coon. Dllnald Ransular .....
Pri1chard. Walson Duty .....
Mayes. Homer ............
Curtis. McDonald Hill ......
Herrmann. Conrad Edward ..
Payton. John Leland ........
Hair. Hardy Henry .........
Larcom. Elmer, Jr ..........
Searcy. Gus. Sr ............
Read. Le'lie JI.faith .........
Holt. Sidney Wayne.
Harris. William Chas ....
Cole. Robert William .......
Moir, Hector McDonald ....
Clark. Lloyd B ..........
Hcndri.\, Rohb Ralls .......
Lawry. Frank Armstrong.
Howe. Charles James .......
Hobart. Dewey Nathan .....
Mulligan. Thomas .........
Raltleman. Charles William ..
Willumscn. Albert Edward ..
Church. Edwin Charle:. Town
Graham. Marvin Franklin ...
Morris. Robert James .......
Valdin. Frans John .........
Heavem. James Edward ....
Walsh. Marlin Clark .......
Clark. Roy Victor .........
Lemon. Donald Stuart ......
Wood. Leslie Earl ... . . . ...
Young . John T. ...........
Rudkin. William George ....
Brown. William Elijah . ....
Condee , Newrnmh . .. . . ... .
Wood . Laurim Levi ....... .
Shepard. Cyrus William .....
Wright, Rodney Vance .. .. .
Doran. Gaylord Carlyle .....
Overmyer. Dwight Mira . ...
Vanuegrift, FloyJ s .. .. . ...
Ellison . William John ..... .
Kendall. Guy Emery ...... .
Demby, Che ster Anthy .. . ..
Wilkinson . DonalJ Peck ....
Sil verman, Samuel Henry .. .
Miller, Robert F ...........
Fratt. ClyJe E .... . . . ......
Nickel. Norman Frederick .
Watson. Aubrey Rowland .. .

Date of
Death
10-16-73
3-26-74
l 1-4-73
3-12-74
7-.H-73
1-8-74
6-18-74
R-17-73
2-11-74
8-24-73
6-30-74
8-16-73
10-20-7:'.
ll-J()..73
3-24-74
9-17-73
6-23-74
2-21-74
11-3-D
6-1-74
4-6-74
3-15-74
2-22-74
3-24-74
12-3-73
11-20-7-'
2-20-74
8-20-7 3
10-8-73
12-20-73
2-16-74
5-8-74.
9-15-73
4-25-74
1-28-74
4 26- 74
5-23- 74
1-7-74
2-1-74
3-31-74
10-5-73
5-3-74
1-4-74
11-3-73
5-2-74
5-::!6-74
5-26-74
4-25- 74
I 1-14-73
11-17-73
3-25- 74
4-18-74
9-16-73
2 17-74

Lodge
No.

Date of
Death

Name

628 Forkner, Robert Roy. Sr.
11-28-73
628 Flanagan. Om1onde W ..... .
3-26-74
629 Volowitz. Leo ........... . 7-26- 73
631 MacPhail. Alan Laurie ..... . 12-12-73
632 Johnscone. William Wiseman
5-6-74
633 Drapeau. Louis Claude .... .
12-9-73
635 Coil. Hen!)· Wilson. Sr. ... .
1-29-74
637 Lygum. Anton Joseph ..... .
l-13-74
639 Phillip,, Joseph H ...... .
1-27-74
643 Reid. Clifcon W .......... . 7-28- 73
643 Stubbe. William .......... . 7-31-73
643 Ziegelasca Paul G ......... .
9-8-73
644 Matthews. Aubrey ..
5-12-74
645 Walker. Rowland William .. .
2-11-74
645 Genter, Eu win Jame, ...... .
3-2-74
648 Nichol>. Lawrence Lee .... .
I 1-6-73
648 Miczanko. Eu ward Ludvic .. .
J-27- 74
653 Kcrmodc. Omar Clucas .... .
8-20-73
654 Miller. Russell Reed ...... . 6-25-74
655 Jones, Ailhur Leo ......... .
9-26-73
657 Johmtonc. William Wiseman
5-6-74
659 Grable. Howard Dale ...... .
l - 1-74
660 Faris. Jame' B ............ · 9-20-73
666 Bohnen. Ralph Carl ....... .
9-5-73
667 Aharta. Daris Leo ......... . 10-17-73
668 Willman. Loui; William ... . 4-22- 74
669 Rediker. Harn· Ferdinand .. .
9-3-73
670 Mackidd, Wiliiam Leslie ... .
8-27-73
670 Smith. Richard Ernest ..... . 9-23-73
670 Casey .. Charl;s M ......... .
9-11-73
672 Sourwine, Rotxrt C ....... .
9-1-73
673 Lubchcnko. Walter ........ . 11-30-73
674 Emlein. Milton ........... .
8-9-73
676 Phillips. George Finley.
7-J 2-72
677 Dickie. Frederick T. . . ... .
2-28- 74
678 Bowman. Jame' Ale .~andcr ..
8-26- 73

Lodge
No.

Name

Respectfull y submitted,
DoNALD L. STEPHENS

Date of
Death

1>80 Greeb. Stanley William .... .
2-8-74
682 Smith. Oscar Jackson ...... . 12-27-73
684 Lineback. Hardin baac .... .
2-9-74
b85 McDowell. Clarence ~·orman
7-31-73
691 Radcliff. Lewi' Dean ...... . 4-22- 74
b93 Carrier. Stuart Edi:.un ..... .
3-18 74
69J Carlson, 0. G ............ .
6-24-74
698 Loomis, Arthur M ......... .
8-5-73
700 Richardson. Charles Alfred ..
2-27-74
709 Hudson. Rny A ........... .
1-25-74
7 l 9 Moore. James Thoma' ..... . 9-23- 73
726 Towner, George Ed" in .... .
1-29-74
726 Paulson. Richard Chri,tian. Jr.
4-20-74
726 Adair. Roy Kelley ........ .
7-16-74
727 Register. Samuel Earl ..... .
2-11-73
731 Ford. Jame' Hen!)· ........ .
8-18-73
7:11 Scocchio, Floyd .......... .
3-25-74
732 Langness. Norman Lauritz .. .
7-2-73
733 Kuenneke. Bruno ......... .
7-3-73
742 Rathbun, Alvah Emmett ... .
5-7-74
743 Slack, Charle' Kirves ...... . 12-25- 73
743 Babb. Jerrell Carmll ....... .
4-13-74
747 Walston. Thomas Lorenzo. Sr. 10-18-73
747 Cash, Milton Mac ........ . 12-13- 73
751 Rodger,, George Nebun ... . l l-28-73
751 Conway. John Melvin ..... . 12-30-73
753 Harris. William Charle' .... .
9- 17-73
761 Snyder. Bill H ........... ..
2-16-74
761 Ham.on. Jean ~·eil ........ .
3-25-74
763 Rihhany. Carim John ...... . J 1-12-73
763 Drapeau. Louis Claude.
12-19-73
778 Wilson. Joe T. ........... .
2-15-74
780 Dutt. Joseph Peler ........ .
2-9-74
787 Hampton . John Rot>ert. Jr. . .
9-27-73
791 Schefr~ . Linus Andrew . ... .
6-7-74
810 Yost. William Earl . . .. . .. . . 4-22-74

RICHARD W. RYLANDER. CHAIRMAN
CALVING. SHORES

29

DOUGLAS M. GOSSAGE

RAYMO~D J. EDWARDS

At 12:30 Grand Lodge was called off until I :30 P.M.

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AFTERNOON SESSION -

Monday, October 14, 1974

At I :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The
session was raised by Homer E. Reynolds. Master of Chula Vista Lodge No.
626. The Invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

DISTINGUISHED GUESTS AND RESPONSES
The following distinguished guests were received with Private Grand Honors,
individually welcomed by the Grand Master, and escorted to seats reserved for
them:
M ... w ... Ross F. GILKISON.
Grand Masrer of Masons in Oregon
M . · . W. ·.CLYDE B . MIX.

Grand Muster of Masom in Washingron
M. · .W. ·.GERALD A. ROBERTS.

Gralld Master of Masons in Nernda
M. · .W. ·. RICHARD R ULE.

Grand Ma ster of Masons in Montana
M. · .W. ·. WAY1'1: S. MILLER. JR ..
Grand Masrer of Masons in Idaho

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
R.

31

.,w,.. W. DEXTER ELLIOTT.

Grand Secretary of Washington
R . · .W. ·. EDWARD L. BENNETr.
Grand Secretary of Washingron
R. · .W. ·. CLARE~CE M. GROSHELL.
Grnnd Secrerary of Utah

R ... w ... JAMES M. KING.
Grand Secretary of Ari;:.ona
V. · . R. ·. BE~JAMI N H. ROBERTSO~.
Grand Chaplain of Washinxton
W. ·. ALTON T. KAUFFMAN

Senior Grand Deacon of Idaho
M . · .W. ·. KENNETH Fu.
Past Grand Master of China
W. ·. FELIX A. LENHART.

Past Grand Treasurer of C::.echoslornkia and member of Durant No. 268
W. · . DAVID W. KENNEDY .

Firsr Vice Presidenr of rhe Masonic Relief Associarion of United Stares
W . ·. DA \ 'IDS . GREENWOOD.

Represenrarive of rhe Grand lodge of California in New York

M. · .W.-. M . LYLE BARR.

Grand Master of Masons in Brirish Coillmbia

M... W ... F. GERALD IR VINE,
Gralld Master of Masons in Urah
M. · .W. ·. 1. C. MORRIS.

Grand Master of Masons ill Wyoming
M.- .w ... S. c. PARISH.
Grand Ma srer of Mason s ill Ari;:.ona
The following distinguished gue~ts were rece ived with public Grand Honor.; ,
welcomed by the Grand Master and escorted to seats reserved for them:
M . · .W. ·.DWIG HT S. SMITH.

Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of Indiana, Secrerary-Treasurer of
Conference of Grand Secreraries of North America
· M . -.W.· JOH N R . COLLARD. JR ..

Pasr Grand Master of Texas
M . · .W. ·. HERBERT T . WHITE.

Pasr Grand Master of Nebraska and rhe Representative of the Grand lodKe
of California in Nebraska
M. · .W. ·.ROYAL D . CROWELL.
Pasr Gralld Master and Grand Secretary of Nevada

M. · .W. ·. DAVID M. TAYLOR.
Pasr Grand Masrer and Grand Secretary of Brirish Columbia

RESPONSES BY DISTINGUISHED GUESTS

The Grand Master called on various distinguished guests during the course of
the Communica'tion to address the Brethren. Each expressed fraternal greetings of
their respective jurisdic tions and acknowledged with thanks the courtesy they had
been extended by the Grand Lodge of California. Their respectively thoughtful
commenh . in some instances sprinkled with humor, were enthusia.'>tically
received by the Brethn.:n .

YOUTH GROUP REPRESENTATIVES•

At the close of the Wednesday morning session Grand Lodge was opened to
ladies and visiting guests to receive youth group representatives and a repre sentative fro m the Californill State Council of the Knights of Columbus . Youth group
representatives included:
Mende Mullins. Honored Queen,
Grand Bethel of Job's Daughter.'>
Susan Q . Bcrglin , Grand Worthy Advisor
Order of Rainbow for Girls
Charles Cochran. Master Councilor.
Redwood Empire Division, Northern California.
Order of DeMolay.

32

PRCX'Ef'.[)l;\(jS 01-' THl:

GRl\\,'D LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

In turn each of the youth representatives spoke to the assi.:mbl ed Bret hren and

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

33

gui.:st~. All were impressed by their vital. inspiring cornmenh and each received a

standing ovation.
SCHOLARSHIP PRESENTATIOf'i'

The Grand Mastc.;r suhse4uently presented Miss Do nna Bc<.:k to whom Brother
Pi.:tc Florio presented a scholarsh ip on hehalf of the California Masonic
F1 iundat ion .

My Bre thren, it s hall be the uuty of the Grand Maste r to present a1 e;ic h
Annual Communication a written message se tting fo11h the rein all hi1> official <1cts
<luring the year, exhibiting the general condition of Masonry with in th e
jurisdiction and to recommend such legi!>lation as he may deern necc1>sary or expedient for the welfare of the Craft.
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

KNl(iHTS OF COLUMBUS REPRESEKTATIYE'

The Grand Master called urxrn Mr. W.B . O'Connor, Junior Past Stale Deputy
of the California State Cou ncil of the Knights of Columbus to address the
Brethren. He expressed his appreciation for the second opportunity to speak to delegates at a Masonic Annual Communication. He reviewed the numero~s. times
where the Masonic organization and the Knights of Columhus hau participated
jointly in areas of mutual community interest. His remark s also were recciveLI hy
standing ovation.
GIFT BIBLE'

The Grand Mas ter directed the Grand Marshall to escort Brother Kohnan
Yonan, a member of Modesto Lodge No. 675 into Grand Lodge. He carried with
him a Bible, hand illuminated on Papryus in the eleventh century. Brother Yonan
!-.lated it had been in his family since 1647, handed from eldest son to eldest ~on
throughout the years. The Bible, written in Aramic, so far a~ is known. is the only
copy in existence. Though a s imilar, but you nger and printcu, Bible ha<l bee n
presented to the Library of Congress by the Yon an family during President
Eisenhower's administration. Brother Yonan helieved this Bible too rare and valuable to remain in private hands and to protect it for posterity he stated, while standing at the altar. that he wished to "give it to the Brethren." The Grand Master
accepted the Bible on behalf of the Brothers with expression of their appreciation
and thereafter Brother Yo nan was accordeLI a stand ing ovation .

•(Note: Recorded here for convenience.)

Thi.: activities of your Grand Master and the Grand LoLlge Officers have bet:n
many anu varied. The Grand Lodge deLlications. cornerstone ceremon ies and receptions arc listed at the end of this repo rt along with other events.
The 1>tate of the Craft ha~ been. with few exceptio ns, hannoniou!> and
progre~s i ve. Authority has generally been administered from the lowest level possible consistent with the problem involved .
California Freemasonry is well-known and envied throughout the worl d .fo r
the ri tua listic perfection of its Officers. Our Ritual Committee has do ne its work
well and is to be hig hly commenued and complimenteu for 1he success atta ined.
Ritual is, and properly should be, of the utm o~t importance during Lodge
meetings . California ritual must be maintained at its prese nt high le vel.
The Master of the indi vidual Lodge bears the respons ibili ty an<l authority to
adminis te r lhe affairs of Masonry within the jurisdiction of his Lodge . However. in
many Lodges there is s uch a singleness of pur[Xlse that ritual has been accepted as
the main purpo~ of their existence. The Master becomes so con~ume<l with the ritualisti c capability of himself and hi s Officers that he overlooks the necessity to rufe
and govern the Lodge over which he is called to preside. Contlicts between
Brethren are ignored or overlookeLI. Good counci l is not whispered . Soothing the
distressed is left to o thers . The widows and orphans arc forgotte n. Brotherly love
and affection become mere phrasing . The exalta1ion to good citizenship is s ile nt.
Freemasonry and its ideal s thus heco me a casualty of s hort-s ighted goals an<l
ambitions. and our image before lhe world becomes tarni shed and tawdry.
Freemasonry is predicated upo n the idea that the individua l is respons ible fo r
his own acts and well-being and that freedom is his <livine righ1, his opportunity ,
and his responsibility. The organization of Freemasonry is to a id and abet the ind ividual in hi!> effort!> toward greater personal development and attainment. ft is not
the organ ization 's function to dic1atorially control his conduct. Thus the duties of
the Master become much more than m ere word perfection or floor work .
To be the Mas ter of a Lodge is a great opportunity for personal growth and
developm ent because in governing and judging the affairs of others. you become
more competent in the administration of yourown. The· 'Wisdom of So lomon· ' is

35

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

gained through action and experience. Occupying the ··oriental Chair" requires
much mo re than ritualistic perfection. Yet, in spite of the great opportunities and
benefits afforded the Master. the statement. "The only thing the Master of my
Lodge is interested in is becoming a Past Master'· has fallen too many times as a
Jiscordant note on the ears of this Grand Master. I commend to all who are, or will
become. Masters of their Lodges, to seize the opportunity for personal
development through adequate service to your Brethren.
I recommend to the incoming Grand Master, and all future Grand Masters, the
esrablishment and maintenance of a supervised educational program to develop the
capacities necessary for the overall governing of Lodge affairs. Hopefully, such a
program will earn for California Freemasonry the same stature as that presently
enjoyed by our ritual. Perhaps it might be administered by a Special Committee.

contributions. The exact figure is $1.039.246.43. Our Code stipulates that the
membership of the Board is to be no more than thirty members. In order to adequately serve the Lodges throughout the state it has been found that additional
Committee members are requireJ. I, therefore. recommend that the number of al·
lowable members on the Masonic Ho mes Endowment Board be increased to thirty-five. No additional cost is involveJ.

34

DUTIES OF GRAND M ASTER

The duties of the Grand Master are getting more.arduous every year. He is
asked personally to make an ever increasing number of public anJ fraternal appearances . A quick look at the schedule of events attended by this Grand Master will
indic ate the time consumed in such affairs anJ the travel involved.
In addition , the Grand Maste r now has every Committee Chainnan , fortyseven in number, reporting to him directly. Each Chairman is thus dependent upon
directions from the Grand Master for the conduct of his Committee. The staffing of
those Committees is a momentous task in itself anJ sho uld be completed by the
time the GranJ Master takes office. The range of Committee activities is so diverse
that adequate familiarity with each Committee's function is nearly impossible.
In addition, every Inspector, under our Masonic Law, is a personal representative of the Grand Master and responsible to him. There are no w 169 Inspectors.
In order to have adequate knowledge of each Inspector and his District the Grand
Master mu st rely o n the Grand Lecturer and the six Assistant Grand Lecturers.
Thus the Grand Master is materially aided in his administrative duties by the Ritual
Committee. However, such is not the case whe re Standing and Special Committees are involved. Some supervisory positions anJ personnel arc needed for Committee control.
I, therefore, recommend that three new executive positions be created for the
supervision and control of the Grand Lodge Committees. Each executive to have a
number of Committee Chairmen reporting to him and he, in tum. reports their
problems and accomplishments to the GranJ Master. The spread of control for the
Grand Master would thus be reduced from forty-seven to three.
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board. under the Chairmanship of Robe rt
E. Hilts, has for the second year in a row exceeded the one million dollar mark in

REIMB l.'RSEME:'-<T OF TRA YEL EXPENSES

The past year has not been kind to our financial picture. Like all organizations
and individuals who have funJs to invest Masonic Lodges in California, and their
Grand Lodge, ha ve been hard hit by the depressed market conditions and by
inflation. It costs mo re to operate and you get less for your money. At the beginning of our last fiscal year the Gr:md Lodge consolidateJ total account was audited
and valued at $40,518,869. The end of the fiscal year shows a total value of
$37,671, 143. The immeJiate future does not promise to be much better. Diligence
and Jue caution have been exercised by the custodians of our funds. The results are
not nearly as bleak as they might have been. The market is down , it will go up. If
we are willing to accept the rewarJs, we must also accept the accompanying risks.
Remember, he who endureth to the end, the same shall be saved. Ever greater
custodial care is being exercised. Faith and hard work will bear fruit and our future
goals will be rnalized. One very bright spot is the complete retirement of all debt
against our California Masonic Memorial Temple in San Francisco. The Temple
Staff, under the leadership of George Gavin, and the Board of Trustees, under
Chaim1an De Wald Baum, are to be highly commended. The returns from their activities are very gratifying.
Travel costs are up materially. Rooms and meals cost more. Old standard s of
re imbursement are inadequate. The allowan ce of ten cents per mile is hardly more
than token repayment and should be increased.
Savings should be effected wherever possible yet curtailment of operations
will only result in fewer and less aJequate services to our membership. That type
of economy should be a voided.
When one of our dedicated me mbers spends time and money in the service of
his Brethren, he sho uld not be asked to sho ulder the entire burden while the inac tive members sit idly by. We should all be willing to share. at least finan cially. in
the costs incurred for such services. I recommend that future standards of
reimbursement be adequate to meet those expenditures. This policy could result in
increased dues or assessments. but the results will generally faroutweigh the cost.

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA;\:'D LOIXJE OF CALIFORNIA

PL'BLICl'fY A~D PUBLIC RELATIO~S

YOUTH ORDERS

37

'"As YE Sow. So SHALL YE REAP ..

Mv travels and communications have revealed one very significant fact about
many ~four Brethren. They hold the idea that the lessons and ideals taught in our
Degrees arc purely Masonic and hence•· Secret.'' Such a concept is unhealthy and
injurious. Our ideals and teachings are spelled out in the Holy Bible. They were
taught by Mohammed and Buddha. They arc written into the Declaration of
Independence and the Constitution of these United States. They are fundamental to
man's peaceful coexistence with his family and neighbors. They were given by
God for the benefit of all. Perhaps the most· 'Secret" thing about them is that they
arc so basic and universal that others overlook or fail to recognize them for their
worth. They are thrown into the discards by "the ruthless hand of ignorance."
We have no exclusive right to the practice of brotherly love, relief or truth.
The four cardinal virtues of temperance. fortitude. prudence and justice belong to
all mankind and are hopefully practiced by all.
Freemasonry. however. is distinctly unique from most organizations in that
those virtues are the focal points of all Masonic beliefs and activities. For too long
we have tended to hide our light beneath a bushel in spite of the admonition of that
great Teacher of two thousand years ago. It seems we have placed such a stigma
upon telling others of our ideals that we have, in effect. denied others the privilege
of hearing about or knowing of Freemasonry's ideals and teachings.

If we are ashamed to acknowledge them or admit our commitment to them.
then we should keep them '·Secret.'' If we are ashamed to tell the world about the
virtues we teach and hopefully practice - that we strive for self betterment
th rough learning the Freemason way, that family, fide I ity and parental
responsibility are accepted as necessary to society's existence, that civil obedience
and patriotism are duties for all citizens, that a spiritual commitment to G(xl is the
first duty of all His creatures - then we should practice .. Secrecy." I. personally.
have yet to feel any sense of shame or guilt' for either practicing or preaching the
virtues taught by Freemasonry. It is quite the reverse. When I don ·t practice those
virtues, when [don't strive to maintain those high ideals , then I am ashamed and
try to keep things ··secret.''
I heartily endorse the recommendations and activities of those Past Grand
Masters who have sought to shed greater light before society concerning
Freemasonry and Freemasons. I will even go one step further and recommend that
we re-evaluate our laws, as they specifically relate to publicity and public
relations. in an endeavor to restructure them to properly tell the story of
Freemasonry. its accomplishments and its members to the rest of the world.

Like the famler. we must plant in order to harvest. What we plant we will harvest. However. the challenge must be met and the work must be done before the
rewards are earned. Raising. educating and supervising children is no instant
process.
We, ourselves. have inherited ideals, goals. ambitions. concepts and knowledge. as well as material things, from our forefathers.
We. like our forebears, will bequeath to the future our ideals and attainments.
However. our ideals and attainments will be received and utilized by succeeding
generations in direct proportion to their desire to emulate us.
The youth of our country, our youth, will seek example, guidance and counsel
from someone. If we do not provide them in satisfactory fonn and abundance.
someone else will. It is our great good fortune that we start with all the advantages
on our side. Our children start with us. their parents. as examples. From that time
on we must constantly earn their desire to emulate us.
Many of our Brethren and their wives devote themselves unstintingly and unselfishly to our three Masonic youth organizations - DeMolay. Job's Daughters
and Rainbow for Girls. Many more are needed to provide adequate guidance and
supervision. It is the rare adult who has nothing constructive to offer young people.
For many years the individual Ma~on and his wife have been urged to actively support - physically and financially - the Masonic youth groups. Lodges were
prohibited from supporting them financially.
In J 969 Grand Lodge of California voted to allow Lodge funds to be spent for
the support of Masonic ally affiliated youth organizations. This was a change in the
attitude formerly taken and stressed that the young men of DeMo lay would
probably become Master Masons and should. therefore, be financially supported.
My association with young people indicates that the young women are probahly
the stronger force for future Masonic membership because of their considerable
influence on their husband.~ and the children which they produce.
I cannot emphasize too strongly th e urgent need for the sponsorship of
DeMolay by our Lodges. and your active support of the Job's Daughters and Rain bow groups.
UNIVERSAL LEAGUE OF FREEMASOl'iS

William H. Price, Grand Master in 1973. recommended that this Grand
Lodge determine membership in the Universal League of Freemasons to he in
violation of California Masonic Law and. therefore. considered to be un-Masonic
conduct. His reco mmendation was sustained by the Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDI NGS 01-' T HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

l have enlargetl upon hi s concept and have tleclaretl that organization to he
cla ntlestine. Since then several ot her Grant! Jurisdiction~ also have declared it

the future. Each one had been a con tinuous source o f inspiration, strength am.I
wisdom. Grand Lodge is stronger becau~e o f th e ir serv ice and weake ned by their
loss.
The poison pen lette r is still thought by some to be a worthy activity . They
must think so, else why would they continue to so write.
C haracter as sassination is as bad as physical assass ination. It is generally J o ne
in the dark or in hope of not being identi fied.
My Brethren. -;hou ld you know of. o r become aware of. anyone who writes
unsigned. inflammatory and defaming letters. please whisper good counsel and
ask them to desist.
Masonry and Masons are above such tactics.
Over the years it has been my observation that because of our pre vious laws
concerning liquor many Masons were in that respect hypoc ritical. With the easing
of the restrictions to a llow liquor at Mason ic parties away from our Temples, I
have not iced a much more acceptable fraternal intercourse hctwecn members .
The tarnishe<l image of Masonry and Masons wh ich wa~ c reated by our fo rmer
laws requiring one standard of action. wi th many of o ur Brethren ac ting on an
opposite standard . has been brightened.
The fears. so often expressed that some of o ur members would become
intemperate if liquor were allowed, have not proven valid. I commend our
Brethre n for the ir temperate behavior. It has been in keeping with the quality of
character we have reason to expect all Ma ~tc r Masons to possess.

38

clandestine.
The problem of California Masom. participating in the Universal League now
appears to have been materiall y reduced, if not e liminated .
MASONIC H OMl-.S

The anticipated building. program at Dccoto has become a casualty of
inflation. Board President Myron E . Smith has Jone yoeman service in carrying
the added responsibility of making the necessary adjustments to accommodate the
c hange. In additio n. he was saddled with yet another task of finding a replaceme nt
fo r Brother Hugh Herring who resigned as Superinte ndent of the Home at Decoto.
Vice President Donald B . McCaw has also performed ahove and heyond the call of
duty. They and the entire Board of Trustees deserve a vote of thanh from every
member of our Gra nd Lodge.
GENERAL COMMENTS

It gives me pleasure to report that the first o pen installation of Officers of this
Grand Lodge wa~ when thi s year's corps of Officers was installed. Comments
have been many and complimentary .
The cooperation hetween the Concorda nt Bodies and G ra nd Lodge has been
exe mplary. No disciplinary action has been necessary. Whi~pering good counsel
has been sufficient. Hannony has prevailed .
No ne w Lodges were constituted nor have any applications for dispensatio ns
to form new Lodge s been received. There have heen a number of applications for
the consoli<lation of Lodges. That is not good news. However. from the infonnation an<l evidence available to us, the average age of our membership is you nge r.
There seems to be a resurgence of interest in Freemasonry among the young men of
our State.
The hurricane that devastated the Central American country of Ho ndu ras
created great havoc . The G rand Lodge of California made $ 1000.00 available to
the Grand Lodge of Honduras for the relief of our Brethren in that stricke n cou ntry .
During the past year we have seen the corps of Past Grand Maste rs reduced
throu gh tlcath by five. a serious loss of approximately twe nty-five per ce nt. Death
has deprived us of the wisdom a nd counse l of Past Grand Masters Earl Warren.
Leslie E. Wood. Louis C. Drapeau. Joe L. She ll an<l He rbert A. Huebner. In additio n, illness or disability has fu rther reduced the effective counsel of Ellsworth
Meye r and L. Harold Anderson. Surely the loss of such giants will be felt far into

39

A CK NOWLEDGME:--JTS

The Elective Office rs have been most supportive an<l cooperative th is year. I
have had a much longe r assoc iation with Burt Me yers than the o the r Electives and
have come to know and appreciate his aptitudes and tale nts. He will ~erve you well
a~ Grand Master .
John Robert~ and Kerm it Jacobson ha ve bot h been workin g di ligen tl y a t the ir
assigned tasks. Both are remarkable men a nd bring to Grand Lodge and California
Freemasonry the type of leadersh ip that is designed to carry us for ward and
upward.
Chester MacPhee really nee<ls no pat on the back - but he ' ll get it anyway.
He's the watchdog of our money . The ex pounder of necessary action . Fortu nate
indeed arc we to have him on the team .
Iron Ed Siems has been the indispensable man. Without his knowledge and
counsel, I would have been so mi red in the swam p of detail as to be totally
ineffec ti ve.

PROC EE DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFOR'-i!A

Doug Lemons is another indispensab le officer. H i~ is a strong but soft voice
that offers wisdom and counsel. His work often goes unsung . but without it there
would be Jes~ harmony .
Reverent! Earl Evans ha~ brought a rare quality of perception and e rutlition to
the Grand Chaplain 's pos itio n . His message!> of hope and inspiration w ill be Jo ng
remembere d by those fo rtunate enough to hear them.
Walker Kisselberg h, th.: Grand Orator. has impressed his personality upon
the members of Grand Lodge to the extent th at his wit, humor and brevity will be

Following re ference to the Committee on Distributio n of the Grand
.Master's Decisions and Recommendations, shown below are committee repor ts and

40

missed. and missed. It takes a g reat man to be that humble .
I must publicly express my gratitude to, and sorrow fo r G rand Marshal James
K. Wilson who has so devotedly and effectively acted as my shadow. valet.
confidant and frie nd. He was so unfortunate as to have o ur Supreme Father call his
wife, Gail. to the great beyond. We a ll miss her. but Jim ha ~ continued to serve
unswervingly.
To the re st of the Grand Lodge Officers , I ask your forgiveness and untlerstanding that you are not being singled out individuall y. My heart is heavy that
such close anti constant association s mu st cease. Your support has bee n superb.
your work magnificen t and yo ur understand ing and tolerance of my weaknesses
beyond th.: call . The Assistant Grand Lecturers , in particular. mu st know that
without their planning. perseveran ce and patience, few things would have happened or been successful .
To the Pa-;t Grand Masters. I c an o nly explain that the rea~on I did not consult
them more often was because o ur Brethren took the respo nsibility of so lving
problems from me by solving them themselves . Whenever I d id ask counsel or
guidance they came through like gangbusters.
To all Masons I repeat the admonitio n: the practice of personal integri ty, family fidelity. parental res po nsibility and a s piritual commitme nt to God is the basis of
o ur Masonic concepts. W ithou t them. brotherly love, relief and truth become
ho llow she lls of fantasy.
It h a~ been an honor and an o pport un ity beyond my fondest expectation s that
you should have ~e lected me co be your Grand Master. I hope that my service has
validated your trust.
Long li ve Ma~onry. and God bless everyone !

41

ACTION BY GRAN D LODGE
RECOMMENDA TI ON (I)
ESTABLISH.\·I E:"T A~D MAL\:TENA \ 'CE Of A SUPERVISED EDUCATION AL
PROGRA~I TO DE VELOP THE CAPACITY TO GOVERN L ODGE A Fl'AIRS

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The. Committee on . Po licy and General Purpmes concurs with the Grand
Master s reco mmendatio n and moves its approval.
Adopted.
RECOMMEN DATIO:\f (2)
OF THREE NEW EXECUTIVE POSITIONS
CREATION
R EGARDING THE
T o SUPERVISE AND CONTROL GRAND LODGE COl\1\llITEE S

The Committee 011 Policy and General Purposes:
. App~oves the concept involved in the recommend ation but urges using the Jun1or G~and Warden. the Sernor Grand Warden and the Deputy Grand Master a~ the
executive~ fo r Committee overview and liaison with the Grand Ma~ter. In the
cou~se of t~ree years the incoming Grand Master. theore tically. will have become
fa~iliar with the responsibili ty and activi ty of each Grand Lodge Committee .
wh~le at .the same tune the pu rpo se contained in the Grand Master· s recommendatio n will have been accomplished. We move a pproval of the recommend ation .
but w11h th e above proviso.
Adopted (as amended).
RECO MMENDATI ON (3)
MASONIC H OMES El'DOWME :\T BOARD--lr-..:cREASE To THIRTY-FIV E MBIBERS

Committt'e on Policy and General Purposes:
The. Committee on . Policy and General Purposes concur-, with the Grand
Master s recommend ation and mm·e., its approval.
The ConrmifTee un Jurisprudence:
To carry out thi~ recommend atio n. your Committee on Jurispruden ce pre~ents
the fo llow ing Re~olution:
RESOLVE D. that Section No. 24 1 of the California Mason ic Code be
amended a~ follows:
.. ~y st~iki~g the work .. th irty" at the end of line two and inserting the \\Ord s
th1rty-f1ve so that the section will read :
.. The Ma~on ic Home~ Endowmen t Board of California. heretofore
created. shall consist o f thirty-five memners who ~ hall be appointed by the
Grand Master a l eac h Annual Commu nication j ust neforc thi: dose
I hereof. · ·
Adopted 5/6 vote.

42

PROC EEDIN GS OF THE

RECOM\.IENDATION (4)
STANDARDS OF REIMB URSEME!':TS
ATE
ADEQU
OF EXPENDITURES
General Purposes:
and
The Committee on Policy
General Purposes fully agrees with the intenl of
and
Policy
on
ittee
Comm
The
can he accomplished un this recommendation and believes that the desired results
ity and procedures. The
author
e
istrativ
admin
g
der present law a~ well as by existin
al.
approv
moves
ses
Purpo
al
Gener
Comm ittee on Policy and
The Committee 011 Finan ce:
"Reim bursem ent of
In a !.ec1ion of the Grand Maste r's message designated
of reimbursement
rds
standa
Travel Expen ses" the Grand Maste r suggests that old
sed and recom increa
be
should
nce
are inadequate. the len cent per mile ullowa
ate.
adequ
be
nt
rseme
mends that future standards of reimbu
Chairman of the ComRight Worshipful Burton Meyer, Jr. has indicaled to the
matter be studied by
entire
this
mitlee on Finance his desire that in due time.
nt-we shall exmome
this
at
on
report
to
Finance. Of necessity we have nothing
ver change~
whate
e
propo
and
Line
e
Electiv
the
amine the problem. consult with
appear to be desirable for the good of the Craft.
subsequent report to
Adopted (Referred to Finance Committee for study and
Grand Lodge).
RECOMMENDATION (5)
RESTRUCTUR E AND RE-EVALUATION OF LAWS
RELATIN G TO PUPLICITY AND PuBLIC RELATIO:-JS
The Commirree 0 11 Policy and General Purposes:
es the concept conThe Comm ittee on Policy and General Purposes approv
must be careful and thortained in this recom menda tion, but cautions that there
and custom s which relate
tions
ough review of all Grand Lodge laws. rules, regula
may be develo ped.
ms
progra
rtable
to this subject in order that sound , suppo
al Purpo ses recomGener
and
Policy
on
ittee
Comm
the
I move approval and
mends a "Yes " vote.
Adopted.
RECOM ~IEND ATION (6)
SPONSORSHIP AND SUPPORT OI-' DEMO LAY.
JOB"S DAl.'GHTERS A:-\D R A l~BOW FOR GIRLS
Commirree 011 Policy and Gener()/ Purposes:
the need expressed by
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes endorses
ittee on Youth ActivComm
Lodge
Grand
the Grand Maste r and sugge sts that the
sponsorship and
Lodge
urging
of
m
progra
a
ities be instructed to diligently pur~ue
support.
ittee o n Policy and
I move approval of the recom mendation and the Comm
.
vote
General Purposes recommends a "Yes"

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIF ORNIA

43

Commirtee on JuriJprudence:
.
N
The Grand Master' s Recommend (
6 , relatin
g to the sponsorship of
o.
.
~/~n
ort
su
and
s
Lodge
our
by
lay
DeMo
Rainbo w groups, was
and
hters
Daudg
obs
rud
referred to the Comm ittee o n fu~sp
ence an we report as. foll. ows...
·
.
.
Section 412 of the California Masonic Cod e permits contnb ut1ons to Ma~on. s.
ted youth organi·zation
ically affilia
.
h..
C d th ·
ic
Mason
There 1s nothing in the
ers
e beat proh I bits the sponsorship of Chapt
of the Order of DeMo lay In. fact 1.toh as
shed polic o f th'is. bo dy
estabh
e
t
en
•
·
.
y
. .
smce the Communication in 1956 th t L0 d , may
r such chapte rs.
sponso
ges
a
.
to
this
brin
ly
ve
ati
affirm
To
f'c)I the at tent ion of the Brethren · we presen
g ·
· t the
. .
. reso1ut10n
Iowing
..
. b . dd
RESO LVED : That a new s·ec·(ion
e a ed to the California Masonic Code
reading us follows:
.
.
Section 333.J Spons orship ofDeM ola A Lod
ron may spont
-resolu
~~
0eJ~1
·of
sor a chapt~r o r _Chapters of the Ord!r
· .on would require consideration as
To adopt this legislation at th· communrcat1
an emergent matter and we so ismove.
·
Adopt ed 5/6 V<He (Consideration of emerg ent matter).
We move adoption of the legislation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

44

PROCl-'.EDINCS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF C'ALIFOR:'-JJA

SPECIAL COMM lJNICATIO.'lS 0~ GRAND LOL>GE

Octobcr I 5--Grand Chapter. Order of the Ea~tern Star. Sacramento
Octobcr 20-Reccption. Santa Clara Valley Ma~ters and Warde ns Association,
San Jose
October 2 I-Breakfast . San Mateo County Masonic Officers Association.
Burlingame
Octobcr 27-Luncheo n, High Twelve Club Convention. Fresno
November 7--Grand Guardian Council Session. International Order of Job's
Daughters. San Jose
Novemher 9-Receptio n. Sacramento Masters & Wardens Associa tion ,
Sacramento
November 15-Meeting , Order of the Amaranth. Stockton (Norman W. Shaw,
Jr.. Senior Grand Steward represented the Grand Master )
Novcmhcr 19-Installati on, East Bay Masters & Wardens Association . Oak land
November 20---Din ner. Sacramento Scotti<.h Rite Bodies, Sac ramento
November 23-Northern California DeMolay Banquet, Sacramento
Novembcr 25-Rcceptio n & Luncheon , Westwood Lodge No . 501, Susan ville
December 7-lnstallation, Union Lodge No. 58. Sacramento
December 15-Knights Commander of the Cou rt of Honour lnve~tit u re. San
Francisco
Decemher I 5-lnstallatio n. Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles
December 18-Ch ristmas Party, Masonic Home for the Aged, u";iion City
Decemher 20---Christmas Party , Masonic Home fo r Children . Covina
December 2 I-Installatio n. Chula Vista Lodge No. 626. Chula Vista
December 22-Past Master's Dinner. lslam Temple. San Francisco
December 28-hl am Temple Ball , San Francisco
December 29-East-West Football Game , San Francisco
December 30---Celebrat ion . J()(Jth Birthday. Robert Cox resi<lcnt at the Masonic
Home in Union City (George Nelson. Grand Stan<lard Beare r. represented
the Grand Master)

1973
October 13- Cornerstone & Dedication. Novato Masonic Temple, Nova to
November 2-Cornersto ne. Santa Rarhara County Building, Lompoc
November 3-Cornersto ne, Grace Ila S. Woodruff Regional Occupational Center,
Stockton
Nove mher JO-Cornerst one. Cy press High School, Cypress
1974
March 2-Comersto ne. Maywood Grammer School, Corning
March 30-Cornerst one, Knights Ferry School. Knights Ferry
April ~ornerstone & Dedication , Modesto Masonic Temple. Mode~to
May 4--Comersto ne. Richardson Jr. High School, San Bernardino
May 11-Comcrst one. Calistoga Elementary School, Cafo,toga
May 12-Cornerst one & Rededication , Benicia Masonic Temple, Benicia
May 25- Comerstone. Sonora Elementary School. Sonora
June 29-Comer~tone, Cypress School. Newbury Park
July 27-Comerstone. Law Enforcement Facility. Pacific Grove
August I 0---Comersto ne & Dedication , San Jose Masonic Temple, San Jose
August 31- Comerstone. Orland Union High School , Orland
September 7- Comerstone. Butte County Community College . Paradi~e
September 8-Comersto ne & Dedication . Big Valley High School. Bieber
September 14--Comerst one, Merced Co unty Court house. Merced
September 27-Cornerst one, Fairlawn High School, Santa Maria
SPECIAL CEREMONIES AND DEDICATION S

45

1974
March 29- Dedication. Valley Masonic Temple. Linden
Apri l 26-Mortgag e Burning Ceremony. Homes Lodge No. 721, No. Hollywood
April 30-Dedicat ion. County Library. Bridgeport
June 8-Rededica tion. Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235. Cedarville
June 9-Dedicatio n, Modoc High School Gymnasium. Alturas
August 25- Dedication. West Covina Lodge No. 758, West Covi na
August 3 1-Rededicat ion of Bcckwourth Masonic Temple. Beckwourth
October 5- Mortgage Burning Ceremony, Barstow Lodge No. 682. Barstow
RECEPTIONS AND MISCELLANE OUS

1973
October 12- Feast ofTishri, San Francisco Scoltish Ri te Bodies. San Francisco
October 14--Brcakfast, San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association, San
Francisco

1974
January 9-Reception . Masonic Homes, Union City
January I I- Installatio n. Red Cross of Constantine, San Francisco
January 12-Installation , General Henry H. Arnold Lodge No. 79 1, Palmdale
January 13-Installati on-Brunch. Islam Temple. A.A.O.N .M.S .. San Francisco
January 19-Receptio n. 639th District, San Diego
January 26-Installati on, Sacramento Scottish Rite Bodie~. Sacramento
February 1- Rec.eption, Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies. Los Angeles
February 4--Shnne Luncheon, San Bernardino
February 8-Installatio n. Long Beac h Scottish Rite Bodies, Long Beach
February 9-Past Master's Annual Meeting. Los Angeles
February 15--Presenta tiun. 50 year Button. Rosevi lle Lodge No. 222. Rose\·ille
February 18--Grand Master' s Conference, Washington. D.C.
February 22-24--Divis ion Six Conference, Long Beach

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

February 25-Geor ge Washingt on's Birthday Celebration, Brawley Lodge No.
402, Brawley
March 3- Breakfast, Masters & Wardens Association , Fresno
March 4--Grand Court Order of the Amaranth. Fresno
March 10-42nd Annual Masonic Breakfast, Los Angeles
March 16--Dinn er. Masters & Wardens Association, Sacramento
March 17- Spring Breakfast. Masters & Wardens Association , Sacramen to
March 22-24--D ivision 3 Conference, Los Gatos
March 31-Sprin g Breakfast , East Bay Masters & Wardens Association, Oakland
April 8-Grand Assembly , Rainbow Girls, Anaheim
April I I- Santa Ana Maundy Thursday Services. Santa Ana
April 13-Fish Fry, Clay Lodge No. IOI, Dutch Flat
April 14--Easte r Sunday Service, Sacramento Sconish Rite Bodies, Sac ramento
April 18- lslam Temple Shrine Club , Grand Lodge Luncheon. San Francisco
April 18-Rece ption, East Bay York Rite Association, Oakland
April 19-21-D ivision I Conference, Santa Rosa
April 25-Islam Temple Past Masters Club ' s annual meeting , San Francisco
April 27-Rece ption, Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691, Ridgecrest
April 28-Break fast, Indian Wells , 502nd Masonic District
April 29--Gran d Convocation of Royal Arch Masons, Burlingame
April 29--Insur ance Square Club's annual luncheon , San Francisco
May I-Grand Council of Royal & Select Masters of California , Oakland (John F.
Roberts, Jr., Senior Grand Warden , represented the Grand Master)
May 2-l 16th Annual Conclave of Grand Comman dery, Knights Templar of
California , Oakland , (John F. Roberts, Jr. , Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master)
May 2-Annua l Grand Commandery Banquet, Oakland
May 3--Grand Master's Golf Tournam ent, Whittier
May 3-Recep tion and Dinner. Whittier
May 4--Recep tion, Long Beach Masters Association
May 5- Breakfast, 6th Masonic District, Orange County
May 5-Lagun a Hills Masonic Club
May 6--Grand Master. guest speaker, Los Angeles Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles
May IO-Rece ption, 118, 160, 16l st Masonic Districts, Orinda
May I I- Reception, Calistoga
May 12- Breakfast, 107, 108th Districts, Santa Rosa
May 16--Dinn er, Mariner's Night, San Pedro
May 17-19--D ivision 5 Conference, Los Angeles
May 17~alifomia State Council Knights of Columbu s, Anaheim
May 19-Aahm es. Go to Church Day (Grand Chaplain , Rev. Earl C. Evans represented the Grand Master)
May 24--Rece ption, 119, 120th Masonic Districts, El Cerrito
May 3 l to June 2-Divis ion 4 Conferen ce, Fres no
June 3~ Visit to Ionic Lodge No. 520. Los Angeles
June 7-Reception . Capital City Lodge No. 499 , Sacramento
June 12- Westwood Shrine Club's Blue Lodge Night, Beverly Hills

June 13-Rece ption, Islam Temple, San Francisco
June 14--Visit , 212th District, Lincoln
June 15-~eception, Madison Lodge No. 23, Grass Valley
June 16-Frft~ Annual 392nd Masonic District & Monterey Knights of Columbus
Councils Barbecue & Picnic , Toro Park
June l 6--250th Masonic District Picnic, Sierra ville
June 21-23-D ivision 2 Conference, Sacramen to
June 24--108t h Masonic District, St. John's Day of Observance, Sebastopol
June 26-G~a~d Master, speaker, Oak Plains Lodge No. 789, Sacramento
June 28- V1s1t to annual session of Grand Bethel, Oakland
June 28--Beef steak Dinner, Inglewood
June 30-Retirement Reception for Ed Mancuso, California Scottish Rite Bodies ,
San Francisco
July 6--Grand Master. speaker for the Knights of Columbu s, Marysville
July 7-23-An nual Hawaiian Visit
July 16--Dinn er, Kauai, Hawaii
July 19-Rece ption, Scho field Lodge No. 443, Hawaii
July 20-Banq uet, Hawaii
July 21-Hawa iian Service, Kawaiaha o Church
July 22-Visit , Ari zona Memorial
July 26--Rece ption, Polaris Lodge No. 730 , Sacramento
August 3-Visit, Long Beach Scottish Rite Bodies , Queen Mary
August 9-Recep tion, Scottish Rite Bodies, San Francisco
August 15--Prese ntation. 5-50 year Buttons, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, (John F.
Roberts. Jr.. Senior Grand Warden represented the Grand Master)
September 5-Warre n.G. Harding Lodge No. 579, Sacramento, ''Ladies Night"
September 6--R.eceptton & Barbecue , 244, 246 & 247th Masonic D istricts ,
Durham
Septembe r 9-Pres entation , 50 yea r Button , Providen t Lodge No. 609.
Sacramento
September I I-Visit, Masons of Chinese Ancestry . Sacramento
September 2I-Recep tion & Barbecue, 636, 637th Masonic Districts Fallbrook
September 21 - Presentat ion. 50 year Button. Silver Gate Lodge N~. 296, San
Diego
September 22-Cons titution Observan ce Breakfast , Scottish Rite Memorial
Temple, San Diego, 640th Masonic District
September 24--Cons titution Obse rvance Program . Franklin Lodge No. 143,
Courtland
September 28-Maso nic Nite, Aahmes Temple. Oakland
October 5-Reception . 601 Masonic District. Victorvi lle
October 7-lnform al Opening IO I st Session Grand Chapter, Stale of Cal ifornia,
Order of the Eastern Star, Anaheim

46

47

ANNI VERSARIES

1973
.
October l 9-50th Anniversary, Military Service Lodge No. 570. San Francisco

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

October 27- 50th Anniversary, Burlingame Scottish Rite Bodies, Millbrae
November 3-IOOth Anniversary. Athens Lodge No. 228. Davis
November 10-75th Anniversary, West Gate Lodge No. 335, Los Angeles
November 12-25th Anniversary. William D . Stephens Lodge No. 698, Los
Angeles
November 16-50th Anniversary. Chateau Thierry Lodge No. 569, San Leandro
November l 7-50th Anniversary. North Hollywood Lodge No. 542. Burbank
November 24-IOOth Anniversary. Janesville Lodge No . 232. Janesville
December l- 50th Anniversary, Progressive Lodge No . 578 . Burbank
December 5-50th Anniversary. Warren G . Harding Lodge No. 579, Sacramento

June 12-13-Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Alberta (Kermit A. Jacobson, Junior Grand Warden. represented the Grand Master)
June 18-Annual. Communications, Grand Lodge of Washington (John F. Robens, Senior Grand Warden. represented the Grand Master)
June 20-Annual Communications. Grand Lodge of British Columbia (Burton
Meyer , Jr., Deputy Grand Master. represented the Grand Master)
June 28-29-Annual Communications. Grand Lodge of Montana (Kermit A. Jacobson, Junior Grand Warden. represented the Grand Master)
August 19-20-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Wyoming

48

1974
January 5-75th Anniversary & lmtallation of Officers . San Jacinto Lodge No.
338, San Jacinto
February 2-50th Anniversary. Security Lodge No . 581 , Bakersfield
March I 5-50th Anniversary. Harding Lodge No. 584, Los Angeles
April 12-50th Anniversary. Service Lodge No. 594. Long Beach
April 16--50th Anniversary. Nat' I Sojourners , Golden Gate Chapter No. 18. San
Francisco
April 27-50th Anniversary, Valley Forge Lodge No. 587 . Playa Del Rey
May 25-lOOth Anniversary , Hills Ferry Lodge No . 236. Gustine
June 29-IOOth Anniversary. Guadalupe Lodge No. 237, Santa Maria
August 17-50th Anniversary, All States Lodge No. 593. Long Beach
August 23-50th Anniversary, Manchester Lodge No. 585, Long Beach
August 24-50th Anniversary, Guardian Lodge No. 596 , South Gate
September 13-50th Anniversary . Wasco Lodge No . 583 , Wasco
September 16-25th Anniversary. El Cerrito Lodge No. 705. El Cerrito
September 20-50th Anniversary. Santa Maria Lodge No. 580. Ramona
VISITS To OTHER J URISDICTIONS

1973
November 12-13-Annual Communication. Grand Lodge of Nevada (H . Douglas
Lemons . Grand Lecturer, represented the Grand Master)
1974
January 28-29-Annual Communication, Grand Lodge of Colorado (John F.
Robens, Jr., Senior Grand Warden, represented the Grand Master)
February 4-5-Annual Communications. Grand Lodge of Utah (Kermit A. Jacobson, Junior Grand Warden, represented the GranJ Master)
May 20-21-Annual Communication , Grand Lodge of Ariwna
June 12-Annual Communication , Grand Lodge of Oregon (Burton Meyer, Jr.,
Deputy Grand Master represented the Grand Master)

49

50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCU :DINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE

GRAND LODGE

FREE AND ACCEPTE D MASONS

FREE AND ACCEPTE D MASONS

OF CALIFOR NIA

OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCLAMATION

PROCLAMATION

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

YOUTH ACTIVITIES WEEK

Masonic charity is a continuous year-round activity. To
focus the spotlight of awareness on it, one month, May, has been
designated as "Homes Endowment Month" to afford a concentratio n
of effort on one of our greatest Masonic charities, the ca re and
securi ty of our elderly and youth.
I am sure that no resident of our Homes, either child or
elder, is a resident because they planned it that way. I seriously doubt that any responsible, self sustaining Mason is now planning
for himself or his widow to spend their declining years at Oecoto
as the guest of our fraternity .
I also seriously doubt that anyone
plane on dying or becoming totally disabled so that his children
may become residents of our Home at Covina . However, such circumstances do occur ~

While they may not occur to us, they may o ccur to others,
and remember that to your neighbors, you're the "other guy . " our
contribution s should, therefore, be
(l) in grateful supplica tion that we and our loved one s
"Were spared, or
(2) that· we are contributing to our own well being . In
either case , this year's giving shou ld be t w ice, three times, even
ten times greater than that of any previous year.
And if in previous years you have given nothing, then n ow is the time to make
up for lost opportunity and share t his joy ,
Funds a re urgently needed to operat.e o ur Masonic Homes .
You and only you are the source of those fund s. So -WHEREAS CHARITY BEGINS -- AT HOME, AND
WHERl:AS MASONS TAKE CARE OF THEIR OWN
NOW, THEREFORE LET EVERY MASON REALIZE Tl-!P.T GIVING I S
MORE THAN A DUTY -- IT IS A PRIVILEGE.

MARCH 17-24, 1 974
.
Family ~bl igati ons, individual and collective, are part of our
Naeonic respons1b1l1 ty. They also provide an opportunity to serve our
~~u~~h~ deve l o pment of His creation .
He pro mised, "AS YE SCJW - SO
.
·
If we would reap responsibili ty in government, moral it
i~o~r s ocial structure, res traint and fair dealing
in our individual a;so~ tions , . and reverenc e for our Crea to r and His crea tio ns
then we must sow
&ame in each of our perso nal dealings by deed and exa~ple.
r'~

d

youth of our country, o ur youth , will seek example guidance
rom someone. I f we do not provide them in satisfactory form
· ~~ ab~~da~ce , someone else will.
It is our good fortune that we start
vi
a
t e advantages on our side. Our children start wit.h us their
pacr en
la. ts. aa examples. From then o n we must constantly earn thei~ desire t o
eau t e us .

an

cou nse

Masons and Masonry in Cal ifornia actively s upport our youth
DeMolay, Rainbow
Daug ters.
In each of those organization s the p rinciples and
i deals of Mas~nry are taught and demonstrated . Their activ ities are yearround a nd so is our.support but, in order to bring the spotlight of atten~iot~ ont _thei r functions , one week has been specifically designated
a s Youth
..c 1v 1 ies Week.
th~o~g~.three ~ason 1 cally affil iated youth o:ganization s -

~

0

_The:efore , the week of March 1 7-24, 1974 has been designated

Lodge , thr-ou gh the activ,_., planning and participatio n of its officers and
~nd _ each Mason individually vis i t at least one of these organiza
ns or invite them to vis i t y ou duri
th . M
·
in youth
eac
ose great moral and sp iritua l lessons of Ma sonry.

~tio r s,

~:r:~~ ~~t!cip~t!;:n

February 15, 19 7 4

activiti~; al~~wsa~~n~~ey~;~rt~~~~~i~os~~~~=

"AS YE So.i - SO SHALL YE REAP"
This proclamat ion is to be read at the March Stated Meet ing.

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONTH

Dated:

9

Youth Activities Week . . It is the direction of the Grand Ma ster tha t each

According ly I proclaim the month of May , 1974 to be

I direct tha t this proclamation be inserted in each Lodge
trestleboard , or if none, then that it shall be read at the March
and April stated meetings of those Lodge s.

ex~~
?__ ~ _j,~fJJ1JL~

~

51

Dated:

February 25. 1974

ex. z:~;-:::;
:;_'__~.I#PLo
-cr-

52

PROCEEDI'.'IGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORt\IA

53

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
To the Most Worshipji,/ Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA

PROCLl\MATION
PUBLI C SCHOOLS MONTH - APRIL, 1974
"WHERE THERE IS NO VISION THE PEOPLE PERISH"
V is ion i s t he ability t o see, to v isual i ze, to have light cast
Our free
upon a subJect o r ObJect that it may be brought into fo c u s .
public school s sys tem was designed to bring light and knowl e dge to all
children that they may have the visio n to know the way, to know their goals.
Wha t other course than free publ ic schools? Public schools with
t uition? Private schoo ls with t uition? Parochial schools with tuition?
All o f which exc l u d e t hose who canno t pa y, thus setting up and perpetuating
a dis t inct society of "hav e n ots" with little opportu nity t o c hange t heir
s tatus, a sit ua tion ma n has b een striving t o eliminate for centuries and
one wh i ch fr e e publ i c school s elimi nate.
Yet, in spite of the merit and advan t ages of free public education, there are t h ose (both from within and without the system) who would
tear down a nd destroy the free public schoo l s ystem to further their own
se l fish interests. Free public education and schools a re the melting pot
of America, wi t h o ut dividing concepts of religio n, race , politics, wealth
or sta t ion in li fe.
Paren t s are as much a part of our school system as the teachers
and administrators. Parents supply the childr en to be taught. Administrators and teachers plan and teach the curr icul um. The general publ ic,
all of us, supply th e money. Therefore, pare nts as well as the teache r s
and general publ ic are responsibl e for th e welfare and conduct of our
public schools.
Maso ns are i nvolved i n all three c ategories and , there fore, a r e
responsible in a ll three categories. our free public schoo ls need your
help and support. The admin istrators and teachers need your help and
The children need your help and support. To aid you in visit in9,
su ppo rt.
l earning about and actively ~upporting the s choo ls of your community, I
dec lare the month of April to b e Public Schools Month.
Thi s proclamation is to be read at Stated Meetings prio r to your
l oca l observ ance.
Dated:

__,_'A~:

March 8, 1974

ii~ t

.

The report of the Grand Treasurer is based on the official audit statements by
Hurdman and Cranstoun , Certified Public Accountant s fo r each of the following
Masonic entities:
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A . M. of California
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memori al Temple
California Masonic Foun<.lation
The period of the au<.l it covered the year ending June 30, 1974 an<.l contai ns a
record of income an<.l ex pense for the fiscal year. These official au<.lit statements
are on file in the Grand Secretary's office for your perusal. All are in proper fonn
and, as stated by Hurdman and Cranstoun . were made in accordance with
generally accepted accou nting practices.
As can be <.letenninc<.l by an anlys is. the Statement for the Grand Lodge
in<.licates a surplus, after expenditures, of $93,776. for the current year.
Likewise, the Statement of the Masonic Homes of California Operating Fund
indicates an excess of income over expenditures before gains from sale of
securities of$547 ,906. Gain from sale of securities amoun ted to $270,051. during
the c urrent year.
The Statement of the California Masonic Memorial Temple indicates an
excess of expenditures over income of $29,372. However, this loss includes a
bookkeeping item of depreciation in the amount of$ I 66. I 88. resu lting in a positive
cash flow from operations of $136.816.
The Statement of the California Masonic Foun<.lation indicates an excess of income over expenditures of $13,114.
In the statement of appropriations the Grand Master was reques ted to approve
supplemental expen<.l itures of $28,440., some of whic h are non-recurring.
On a personal no te, the Grand Treasurer also serves on the Masonic Homes
Board , California Masonic Foun<.lation Board. California Masonic Memorial
Temple Board as Treasurer and a lso as a member of the Grand Lodge Investment
Committee. It is my considered judgment that the work of these boards an<.l committees is accomplished in an exemplary manner.
Your Gran<.l Treasurer is deeply appreciative of the outstanding cooperation of
the Grant! Master an<.l the Grand Secretary as well as the office staff o f the Grand
Lodge, particularly in the accounting office .
Respectfully submitted.
CHESTER R . M ACPHEE. Grand Trea.rnra

/
N

~~Ct. #/lt

Gr aOu ~ec r etar y

'yJ

55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRANO LODGE F. & A. H. OF CA LI FORNI A
ANO AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

GRANO LODGE F . & A, II . OF CALI FORNI A
AHO AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

SU"'1ARY OF RECEIPTS, EXPENSES ANO CAP ITAL CHARGES
For the years ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

SUHMRY OF RECEIPTS, EXPENSES AHO CAPITAL CHARGES
For the ye ars ended June 30. 1974 and 1973

54

1971,
Income r ece 1pts :
Grand Lodge:

458,085
144 ,068
602,153

Per capita, contributions arid fees

Interest, di•'idends and other
/'1i!lson i c Home s:

Genera I Fund:
Grand Lodge per capita and contributions
Payments through Lodge•
I ncome from endownent and trust fund
In terest, dividends and other

333 .8 15
64 ,897
I ,5J6,85J
868,065
2 , 803,630

338,425
65 628
l .355 .619
627 294
2. J86. 966

892 ,462

834,457

I

Tot al receipt s - fo rward
E... pense d i sbu r sements:

Gr and Lodge:
Ope rat ing f.illl. penses

Ha so n i c Homes :
Genera I Fund:
Operation of Homes and outside relief
Administrative and general

.!ill.

S I0,523,509

9 .570 ,022

6 13,353

508,592

2,808,355
4 5 ! 28!
3.259 636

2 742 ,064
215,406
2 , 957 ,470

5 ,459

1.950

265.997
166, 188
125
2,565 ·
434,875

309 .540
172,677
-09 , 0 13
491,230

I

I

I

I

Endownent and Trust Funds:
Mi see I laneous

Amount s received on Pensions ~ssi9ned by

Decola Residents
Endo.....ment a nd Trust Funds:

Interest, dividends and other
llemo r; al Tenip le :
Bui 1ding re.venue
Inte rest and dividends

1.595.0)0

I ,l< 22, 125

401.938
3 ,~6 1
405, 99

333. 750
3.544
337 ,294

Interest, divi dends ~nd ot he r
Ga;n (Loss) s ale of securities

59. 671
15 ,006

-o-

7'4 677
I

Capital receipt$:
Grand Lodge :
Gain (Loss) s ale of secur;ties

41,048
12 . 162
2,383
55,593

29,043

(18,010)

270,051
1,447.406
449.310
58o
2, 167.347

43. 984
980. 382
6o4. 193
693
1,629.252

413, 744
I , 416 , 085
l ,829 ,829

281,387
1,479.959
I , 761 .346

Ha sonic Homes:
General Fund :

Gain (Loss) sale of securities
Bequests and contributions
Assignments by residents
Income from endownent and trust funds

Endownen t •nd Tf"uSt Funds :
Gain {loss) sale of secuf"it ies
Bequests and cont ri but ions

l\emor; • l Temp le :
Gr"and Lodge per cap i ta and cont ri butions
Bequests and contributions

California Masoni c Foundation:
Gift ... Amaranth Homes of Cal ~fornia
Bequests and contribu tions
Proceeds ·Sole of U.C.L.A. Clubhouse

Total receipts • forwar"d

C•l i fornia Masonic Foundati on:
Operating e"'pens.es
Tota l expense disbursements

Ca li fo rnia "'asonic Foundati o n:
Income frOrT'I trust fvnds

Memo ri al TernpJe:
Ope r at i ng expenses (eKCl! pt dep r eciation)
Oepreci at ion
Loss - Disposition of Fixed Assets
I nteres l Expense

35 ,SIS
2, 108
37,623
2,927
40

-o-

2 967

2 ,505
5 18,718
521,223

Sl0.523.509

S9.570,022

-o-

E... pense and oth~r c ha rg es to capital;
Mason i c Homes ·
Genera l Fund :
Decato Facility Su rvey· Pr i or" Yea r
Property transferred to Property Fund
E ndo~ent and Trust Funds:
lncOfl"\e transferred to Genera l Fund (income)
ln C()f1'1e tra nsferred to General Fund (capita l )
Property transferred to Prope rty Fund
Property Fund:
Retirement of bui !d i ngs. equipment a nd
improveinents
Proper ty transferred f rom other fund s
Total e"'penses and other c.har-ges
Net increase in f und ba Ja nces

61 , ~63

53 268

4. 374,886

4,0 12,5 10

( 111 , 45 I )
269 ,ooi.

-0527,497

I ,536 ,85 3

l, 355. 6 19
693
3.978

131,091
(262 , 004)
~.231.959

3.297
!53t,4m
5,372.112

4 ,591,550

4 , 197.903

(255 . 547)
4 ,581,715

(7. 782)
3 , 105,719

5 .920
(66, 210)

358 , 483
603. 232

90 ,000
2~~ . 6z2

70 ,000
68 25 1

~4 . 59 1, 550

S'< , 197 ,903

sao
-o-

Fol lo wing i s a sunmary of changes i n the fund balances:
Increase or (decrease ) in assets :
Cash
Securi t i es owne d (cost )
Bu i ldl ngs, e q u ipment and improveme nts.
net of deprec iation
II i see 11 aneous
( lncre•se} of dec r ease in lia bi l i tie s:
loans f rom Ba nk~
Mi see 11 aneous
Net increase in f und balances 1 a s above

PROC EEDIN(;S rn: THE

56

REPORT OF THE GRAND SECRETARY

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A .M. of California:
Pursuant to the requirements of Ma~ o nic Law, submitted herewith is my
14th Annual Report of the year's recorded business of the Grand Lodge. All
records of a financial nature for the Grand Lodge, the Masonic Homes of
California, the California Maso nic Foundation, and the California Maso nic Memorial Temple have hccn audited by Hurdman & Cranstoun. Supporting books.
vouchers a nd papers are on file in the Grand Lodge Office .
The recording of all money~ rece ived and c redited to the various accounts
under his care and custody are re flected in the Grand Treasurer' s Report.
Details of dishurscrnents rnauc by Grand Lodge during the year have been
reviewed by the Chairman and Me mbers of the Committee on Finance a~
required by law. The Office continues to se rve the entitie s no ted above in all
matte rs proper to be reco rded relative to the various functions.

U NFI NISHED BUSINESS

The following mailers were continued from the Communication of 1973:
I.
2.
3.
4.

5.

Code Revision, ( 1973 Proceedings . pp. 230).
Election of Junio r Grand Warden , ( 1973 Proceedings. pp. 260. 265).
Masonic Buria l Ente red Apprentices and Fe llow Craft , ( 1973
Proceedings, pp. 280, 282).
Special Trust Fund - Social Purposes, (1973 Proceedings. pp. 279,
280).
State wide Jurisdiction. ( 1973 Proceedings , pp. 291. 296 ).
CHARTER AMEND~1ESTS

Change of Meeting Place
Following is a list of Lodges and the changes of meeting place which have
occurred during the year:
Hermann No. 127 from San Francisco to Burlingame.
San Francisco No. 166 from San Franc isco to Daly City.
Lakeshore No. 551 from Oakland to San Lorenzo.
South Park No. 563 from Haw·th orne to Playa del Rey.
Dimond No. 603 from Oakland to Hayward.
Truth No. 628 from Los Angeles to Re seda.

GRAND LODGE OF C ALIFORNIA

57

Saint Elmo No. 697 from Oakland to Alameda.
Lakeside No. 760 from El Cajon to Lakeside.
Millbrae No. 792 from Millbrae to San Rruno.
William B. Ogden No. 816 from Hollywood to North Hollywood.
The Grand Secretary reque~t~ authority to e ndorse these charters.
Consolid1.1tio11 of Lodges

All requirements of the law respecting consolidation having been complied
with. the Grand Secretary requests authority to properly e ndorse the following
charter~:

Sunset Lodge No. 352 and Albert Pike Lodge No. 484, effective December
4, 1973. to be known as Sunset Lodge No. 352.
Culver City Lodge No. 467 and James A. Fosha y Lodge No. 641, effective
December 4. 1973. to be kn own as Cul ver City-Foshay Lodge No. 467.
Pyramid Lodge No. 562 and Ingleside Lodge No. 630. effective December
4, 1973, to be known as lngleside-Pyram!d Lodge No. 562.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 and Metropolitan Lod ge No. 646. effective
December IO, 1973, to be kn own as South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.
Doric Lodge No. 216 and Starr King Lodge No. 344 , effec tive April 1,
1974, to be known as Starr King Lodge No. 344.
Ramo na Lodge No. 457 and Belvedere-Sunrise Lodge No. 522, effecti ve
April 2, 1974. to be known a~ Monterey Park Lodge No. 457.
Richmond Lodge No. 375 and Military Service Lodge No. 570, effective
July I, 1974 , 'to be known as Bro therhood Lodge No. 375.
Alexandria Lodge No. 531, and Educato r Lodge No. 554, effective October
2, 1974, to he known as Educator Lodge No. 554.
Elsinore Lodge No. 289 repons that the name of the area where the Lodge
meets has been changed from Elsinore to Lake Elsinore . The Grand Secretary
should properly endorse th e c harter.

58

FEES FOR DEGREES

MEMBERSHIP

... . . ......... ....... .
New Lodges Fom1ed . . . . .
Co nsolidations .... .. ....
Initiated . . . .... ... . .. .. .
Pa~ sed . .. . . . .... .......
Raised .. . .. .. .. . . ......
Affiliations (Calif) .. . .. ..
Affiliations (from
other Jurisdictions) .. . ..
Restorations ......... ...
Withdrawals ...... . . ... .
Suspensions (NPD) ......
Suspensions or
Expulsions (for cause) ..
D eath ~ ..... . ...... .. . ..
Number of Members .....
Due~ Remitted ........ . .
Gains or Losses ... ..... .
Number of Lodges
Excluding Research ....
Plural Members
(Inc lulled in total) . .....
Research Membership . . ..

1970
I
2
4.286
3,920
3.886
1,847
719
409
2.585
1.823

59

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

4.075
3,751
3. 741
1,792

1972
0
3
4, 135
3,501
3.571
2,338

1973
0
8
3.974
3 ,502
3,382
2.936

1974
0
10
3,939
3,452
3,431
3 ,671

695
375
2.510
1,749

755
403
3,009
1,725

671
397
3,663
1,339

719
316
4,403
I .455

1971
0
I

]J
6
12
14
12
5.713
5.808
5.690
5.600
5.456
233,855 230,583 227.214 223,777 220,337
3.220
3,921
3, 871
3,759
3.964
-3,015 -3,272 -3.369 -3.437 -3.440

703

702

699

691

681

1.942
365

1.910
361

1.945
361

2.008
385

2.019
383

Amount

$ 50.00
53.00
55.00
60.00
65 .00
70.00
74.00
75.00
78.00
80.00
85 .00
86 .00
90.00
95 .00
99.00
100.00
102.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00
140.00
150.00
165.00
175.00
215 .00

Total Lodges
Average

1964
No . of Lodges

1974
No . o f Lodges

85

63

4

11

13
I
1
168

Inc rease in
No. Lodi:es

Decrease in
No. Lodges

22
7

1
13

21

147
l

4

.,

'-

17
3

23
1

33
2

221
1
9
3
42
4
78

216

5

1
3
52
7
76

8

2
2
8
3

4
6

21

I

10

I

9

JO
3
2
2
4

9

3
7

I

707

681

$92.00

$98.98

2

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA1':D LODGE OF CALIFOR'.'llA

A NN UAL DUES
Decrease in
No . Lo dges

1964

1974

Amount

No. Lodges

No. Lodges

$ 12.00

93

28

257

92

65
I
165

61

29

p

14.00
15.00
16.00
17.00
18.00
20.00
21.00

22.00
23 .00
24.00
25.00
26.00

2
226
55

Increase in
No. Lodges

2

5

166
161
32

2

4
73
43

60
104
27
11
4

69
41

4

4

27 .00

16

16

28.00

4
14

:w.oo
32.00
33 .00
35.00
36.00
38.00
40.00

I
l

4
14
I

48.00

4
l
2
I

50.00

2

2

Total Lodges

707

681

Average Dues

$16.22

$ 19.96

l ~ TER-JURI SD I CT IO:'\ COURTESIES

As you know the Grand Lod ge of Cali forn ia is as ked to perform a number of
fun ctions a~ a courtesy to other recognized j urisd ic tion s. With the cooperation of
o ur Inspectors, Service Bureaus and Lodges we arc a ble to hand le the many
requests which we receive. We. in tum. do ask other jurisdictions to assist us. I
thought you might be interested in some comparative fig ures.
We received 150 requests from other jurisdictions to assist Candidates by
conferring Courtesy Degrees . There were 92 reque~ts fo r Degrees by courtesy
forwarded to other jurisd ictions on behalf of California Lodges. During this year

61

o ur re stnct1ons with respect to Courtesy Degrees ha ve been relaxed. All
Candidare~ who have resided in California less than one year. or outside the
jurisdiction for a period of Jes~ than twelve months. can qualify for courtesy
wnrk.
We forw arded 58 California Veteran Butto ns to other jurisdictio ns for presentation to our Fifty Year Members. During the same period we presented 512
Veteran AwarJs to Fifty Year Mem bers from o ther juri sdictions. Some of the
presentations we re made at the ho me of the resident due to health re asons. Many
were presented by the Inspectors at Lodge meetings.
During the year our Inspectors and Service Bureaus, with the as sistance of
our Lodges. have conduc ted almost 400 in vestigations for other juri sdictions.
Many are applications of Suspended Maso ns for reinstatement. Others are
applying for admission to Masonic Homes . In some instances we are asked to
locate a member with whom tbe Lodge has los t contact .
These req uests from other j urisdictions can only be ha ndled with the
cooperation and assistance of our Service Bureaus . ln~pect ors and Lodges. I am
grateful for tbe willingness and dedication s hown by you in hringing these
matters to completion.
At the present time we arc sending: o ut a great many inquirie s to other
jurisdictions in an effort to up-date o ur members hip record s. In past years the
Masonic history of a member gained by affiliati on was not always ava ilahle and
hence his record was not complete . We are most appreciative of the response by
other Grand Jurisdictions to our request for thi s informatio n.
VETERA:" BUTTONS

For the period betwee n Septemher l, 1973, and Se pte m ber l, 1974, a total
of 1,599 Veteran Butto ns a nd acco mpanying Recognitio n Certificates were
presented. Since the inception of the program thi s brings the total of rec ipients to
20,2 19. Time and effort on the part of me mbers of the staff in the Me mbership
Department co ntinue to be required in analyzing members hip records o f Brethre n
who may poss ibly be elig ible for such veteran award. It is antic ipated that the
number of presentations will remain a t this high level for several years. This is
due to the pronounced increase in Masonic M embers hip for a period of time afte r
the First Wo rld War. which has been reflected in the large number w ho ha ve
received this Award .
TAXATION MA TIERS

This Office continues to assist Lodges by advising them of requirements in
filing required tax reports . as we have commented in pre vio us Annual Reports to

62

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCl::l::Dll\GS OF THE

EXHIBIT

you. A unique program of preparation of payroll tax report~, for tho~c Lodges
who desire to participate in the program, continues through this office for a nom-

63

A

DISPENSA TIO"lS ISSUED

inal charge.

To elect O.fjiccrs ar a rime uther than tlwt fixed by law: Yount No. 12; La
Parfaite Union No. 17; Hawaiian No. 21; St. Helena No. 93; Roseville No. 222;

ACTOUNTlNG RECORDS

Since our report to you last year the Accounting Office ha~ instalkt.I a new
nwchine, a "mini-computer," and many of our functions have now hccn programmed to he handled on thi~ machine.
This year for the fir~t time we prepared the Annual Return Statement~ for the
Lodges on the mini-computer. There are both advantages ant.I ~ome
disadvantages resulting from this type of installation. but acting upon the he~t accounting advice obtainable , we feel the mo ve will be both economical and practical. We no w produce many of our own reports for the u~e of the Grand
Treasurer. Masonic Homes. Trustees and other entities.

OFFICER'S COOPERATION

One of the principal advantages enjoyet.I by all of the employees working in
this Office is the friemlly, complete cooperation received from Grand Lodge Officers, Committeemen. Inspectors , Lodge Officers and Secretaries. Commitment
to the principles of the Fraternity is evident in all our contacts with them. It is
pleasant am] heartwarming to work with Brethren who are committed so
completely.
l would like to express to you Brethre n the appreciation of our staff for the
leadership of Grand Master Raymond Ebhage and the Elective Grand Lot.lge Officers. May I also express my personal appreciation and gratitut.le for a competent
and loyal staff who have helped to make my busy joh lighter.
Respectfully submitted,
Eow ARD H. s IEMS

Brooklyn No. 225; Welcome No. 255: Hesperian No. 264; Durant No. 268; Sanger No. 316: Sunset No. 352; Brotherhood No. 375; Dinuba No. 385; Lindsay
No. 416; Upland No. 419: Inglewood No. 421: El Segundo No. 507; Glendale
No. 544: White Pine No. 555: Wes t Adams No. 565; James Madison No. 572;
Angeles Mesa No. 625; Benevolence No. 631; La Cumbre No. 642; San
Gorgonio No. 668; Laguna Beach No. 672; Altauena No. 678; San Marino No.
685 ; Albany No. 686; San Lorenzo Valley No. 718; Rolling Hills No. 781;
Moreno Valley No. 804.

To open Lodf:e in other than regular meeting place: Yount No. 12; Hesperian No. 264: United No. 374; White Pine No. 555: Pyramid No. 562; Kaua i No.
589; Willow Glen No. 676; W aikiki No. 774; Silverado No. 782: American
River No, 795: Moreno Valley No. 804: Los Alamitos No. 809.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: La Parfaite Union No. 17;
Pentalpha No. 202; Eas t Gate No. 290; Fullerton No. 339; Blythe No. 473;
America No. 475; Golden Rule No. 479; Fellowship No. 480; Capital City No.
499; San Gavriel No. 546; Arcat.lia No. 547; Southland No. 618; Atawater No.
622; Angeles Mesa No. 625; La Habra No. 659; Indian Wells Valley No. 691.
To change date of regular Stated Meeting: Occidental No. 22; Patterson No.
488; Riviera No. 780; Los Alamitos No. 809.

To receive and act upon the application of a rejected Candidate: Composite
No. 639.

To receive and act upon application of member of Armed Forces who does
not possess residence requirements: Estero No. 719.

Grand Secretary
Miscellaneous: Buena Park No. 357.

Referred to Committee on Distribution.

LIFE MEMBERS HIPS

increasing fee: Yount No. 12, to $525.00; Mariposa No. 24, to $417.00;
Fidelity No. 120. to $420.00; Stanislaus No. 206, to $1,000.00: Lodi No. 256. to
$416.66; Orange Grove No. 293, to $437.50; South Gate No. 320. to $575.00;
Turlock No. 395, to $437.50; Golden West No. 455, to $500.00; Yorba Linda

GRA!'JD L ODGE OF CALIFOR!\'.IA

PROCEEDJ'.\GS OF THE

64

65

No. 469. to $-1-37 .50; Delta No . 471, to $425 .00; Fellows hip No. 480. to $54 I .66;
Plymouth No. 560. to $437.50: East Whittier No. 776. to $521.00.

Dimond No. 603; Canoga No. 611; Angeles Mesa No . 625 ; Travelers No. 692;
Saint Elmo No. 697: LakesiJe No. 760; Waikik i No. 774; Koolau No. 801 :
William B. Ogden No. 816.

Fixing fee: San Jose No. 10 . at $500 .00; Monterey Park No . 457, at $500.00;
Ingleside-Pyram id No. 562. at $425.00; Conejo Valley No . 807. at $420.00;
FrJnk S. Land No. 8 19. at $150.00.

Changing time - Imperial No. 390: Angeles Mesa No. 625; Palm Springs
No. 693 : Oasis of Mara No. 735.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Once again calls to the atten tion of the Lodge Secretaries tha t many of the
applications for dispensation to hold an election at other than the annual Stated
Meeting are faulty in that they either fail to state the reasons therefor, or fail to
~ tatc that it was approved by two-thirds of the member~ present at a Stated Meeting as required by Section 472. M.C.
The Committee find~ that the Grand Master has ac ted properly in granting or
denying the applications for dispensations and in approving Life Membership
Resoluti ons and has com plied with Mason ic Law. We recommend that his actions be approved .

Prorision for legal holidays Frank S. Land No. 819.

Consuelo No. 325; White Pine No. 555;

Fees for Degrees: (C.M.C. Section 354. Article VIII).
Increasing - Santa Barham No. 192, to $100.00; Welcome No. 255. to
$ 100.00: On tario No. 301. to $90.00; Alexander Graham Bell No. 595. 10
$ 140.00; Soquel No. 746 . to S 100.00.
Decreasing -

El Sereno No . 588. to $75.00 .

Increasing affiliation fee -

Alexander Graham Bell No. 595. to S I 0.00.

Rescinding affiliution fee -

Kauai No. 589.

Dues: (C.M.C. Section 356. Article IX).
Respectfully submitted.
LEO E. ANDERSON· Chairman

ELMER W. H EALD

JA MES W. HALLEY

CARL H. ALLEN
D ONALD R . FRETZ

H ERBERT H ARG RAVE. JR .

GUY R EYNOL DS

JOHN E. W ALTERS

R OBERT F. WALDRO!\'.

AJopted.

EXHIBIT

B

AM E!'iD~1 EsTs To BY.LAWS

Uniform Code of By-Laws: (C.M.C. Section 339 through 365). Lafayette
No. 126; Brentwood No. 3..J5; South Pasadena No. 367; Brotherhood No . 375;
Wils hire-Garfield No. 445: Monterey Park No. 457; C ul ver City-Foshay No .
467; Ingleside-Pyramid No. 562.
Stated Meeting: (C.M.C. Section 343. Article Ill ).
Changing date - Hermann No. I 27; Elk Grove No. 173; King Solomon' s
Seaport No. 260; Standard No. 440; Lakeshore No. 551; South Park No. 563;

Increasing - Corint hian No. 9. to $24. 00; Yount No . 12, to $25.00; Temple
No. 14. to $20.00: Mariposa No. 24, to $20.00: Union No. 58 , to $25.00; Yolo
No. 81. to $25 .•00; Eden No. I 13. to $22.00: Fidelity No. 120. 10 520 .00:
Lebanon-Pacific No. 136, to $20.00; Lassen No. 149. to 525.00; Elk Grove No.
173, to $24.00; Antioch No . 175, to $24.00: Evening Star No. 186, to $20.00 :
Stanislaus No . 206. to $48.00; In yo No. 22 1. to $25.00; Welcome No. 255, to
$30 .00; Lodi No. 256. to $20.00; Elsinore No. 289. to $25.00; Orange Grove No.
293, to $21.00; Ontario No. 30 1, to $24.00; Delano No. 309. 10 $24.00: South
Gate No. 320. to $25 .00; San Jacinto No. 338. to $20.00; Charity No. 362. to
$20.00: Ric hmond No . 375, to $18.00; Turlock No. 395. to 521.00: La Mesa No.
407. to $22.00; Upland No. 419. to 520.00; Eagle Rot:k No. 4 22. to $24.00;
Pittsburg No. 429 , to $26.00: Standard No. 440. 10 $30.00: Coronado No. 4 41, to
$20.00; Golden w~~t No. 455. to $24.00; Center No. 465. $36.00: RockriJge No .
468, to $24.00; Yorba Linda No. 469, to $2 1.00: Delta No . 471, to$20.00: Stockton No . 498, to $25.00; Maui No. 4 72. to $2 1.00; Fellowship No. 480. to $26.00;
El Segundo No . 507, to $2 1.00; Joppa No. 508 , to $20 .00; Cupertino No. 510.
to $30.00; George Washington No. 525, to $20.00; Loyalty No. 529. 10 $25 .00;
Smyrna No. 532, to $20._00; 9ueen Beach No. 540. to $20.00: North Holl)wooJ
No. 542, to $25.00; Point Fmnm No . 558. to $ ~ 8 . 00; Plymouth No. 560. to
$21.00; Progressive No. 5 78, to $18.00; Santa Maria No. 580. to $20 .00: El

67

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

Sereno No. 588, to $21 .00: Alexander Graham Bell No. 595. to $22.00: Hemet
No. 615. to $23.00; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $26.00: Composite No. 639, to
$25.00: Hawthorne No. 647, to $24.00: Menlo Park No . 651, to $32 .00; Baklwin Park No. 660. to $30.00; San Clemente No. 671, to $25.00: Liberal Arts
No. 677, to $25.00: Cannel No. 680, to $28.00; Pohona No. 689. to $18.00: San
Antonio No. 694. to $28 .00; Crossroads No. 696, to $24.00; Rim of the World
No. 711, to $25.00: Belmont Shore No. 716, to $22.00: San Ramon Valley No.
724, to $24.00: Lemon Grove No . 736, to $25.00; Soquel No . 746. to $24.00:
Channel No. 757, to $18.00; East Whittier No. 776, to $25.00: Lakeside No.
760. to $25.00: Silverado No. 782. to $24.00: Camellia No. 805, to $20 .00;
Triad No. 812. to S25.00: Camarillo No. 824. to $25.00: Palm Desert No. 826,
to $25.00.

Report was sent to the printers were found to be in ort.ler. Your Committee moves
that they be included in the Grand Secretary's fina l report. They are

66

Charity Committee: (C. M.C. Section 360. Article X). United No. 374;
Thom.and Oaks No. 478: Damascus No . 648.
RESOLU fl Ol'S

Annual Meeting in N{)\·ember: Mountain Shack No. 18: North Star No. 91.
Chanf?e of meeting place: (C.M.C. Sections 372 and 373). San Jose No. 10:
Yount No . 12: Fidelity No. 120: Hem1ann No. 127: San Francisco No. 166:
Friendship No . 210: Guadalupe No . 237: King Solomon's Seaport No. 260;
United No. 374; Fraternity No. 399; Silver Trowel No. 415: Argonaut-Argonne
No. -l61 : Golden Rule No. -l79; Lakeshorc No. 551: White Pine No. 555: South
Park No. 563: Kauai No . 589; Truth No. 628; Dimond No. 603: John P. Jarman
No. 669: Willow Glen No. 676: St. Elmo No. 697; Lakeside No. 760; Waikiki
No. 774: Silverado No. 782; Millbrae No. 792; Koolau No. 801: William B.
Ogden No. 816: Tustin No. 828.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Committee on By-Laws:
With six members present Saturday morning. October 12th. 197-l: your
Committee on By-Laws began its review of the matter~ referred to it.
Your Committee checked and rechec ked one hundred and fourty-nine B ylaw changes made by the Constituent Lodges ...
All of the reviewed By-Laws amendments and resol utions were fo und to be
in order.
Exhibit A of the Grand Secretary 's Report. to which members of Grand
Lodge may refer. sets forth 143 changes. The six changes approved after said

Change of meeting place: (C.M.C. Sections 372
and 373)---3 Re solutions
Increasing dues (Section 356) 3 Amendments
A Total of 79.
As in the past. your Committee suggests that the Lodges review Article X of
their By-Laws which sets fort h the maximum authority of the Charity Committee
of the Louge during the interval between stated meetings.
Your Committee would like to point out that the charity provision is a ve ry
important part of your By-Laws ant.I a ten dollar amount between statct.I meetings
may not be any charity at all .
Even though all of the amendments reviewed were approved. your Committee fount.I that the matter of t.lesignating holidays in the By-Laws remains
troublesome. Article Ill of the Uniform Code of B y-Laws. which perm its
exception to the regular date of the stated meetings of a Lodge , limits the
exception to legal holidays and during the Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge.
With regard to legal holidays, these shoult.I be specifically named so that
there will be no misunderstanding as to whether a particular day is or is not a
holiday . Furthe r. the particular legal holiday should be identified by NAME and
NOT by date: that is, New Year's is preferable to January I and Independence
Day is preferable to July 4, because such desc ription leaves no dou bt that t he
exception applied when the se days are celebrated on Monday in a year when January l or July .i falls on a Sunday.
Panic ular attention should be paid to this point of designation of holidays.
and especially for Monday night Lodges. By action of Congress , several
holidays will be celebrated on Monday even though they fall o n another day of
the week. All Monday night Lodges should contac t the Grand Secretary' s office
before changing the holidays.
Also a Lodge should provide for an alternate date in case its stated meeting
falls during the Annual Communication of Grand Lodge . While only those
Lodges whose stated meeting is during the second week of the month are affected, the date of any Annual Communication may be changed for any year, so
the contingenc y ~hould be provided for.
In reviewing the re solutions having to do with the change of meeting place
by various Lodges. yo ur Committee found that in several cases a Lodge moved
to a new location without following the formal procedures as set forth in the

68

PROCEEDINGS OF ·1HE

California Masoni<.: Code. and when the Lodge notified Grand Lodge it was
mee ting at the ne w location .... uch noti<.:e was the fir:-t knowledge that Grand
Lodge would have of a move having taken place . Thereafte r. the Lo<lge WllUld
have to take the necessary pwi:cdural steps that it ~hould have rnmpleted prior to
any move. The procedure for i:hanging the meeting place o f a Lodge is set forth
in Calitixnia M::i ~onic Cod..: S..::<.:tion 372. We would like to impress upon all the
officer~ in atle ndam.:c here that they ~ ho uld i:hcck the Masonic Cude and Bylaws of their respective Lodges before making any change:- in mee ting places.
so that the required fonnalities will he completed before the move. rather than
afterward.
This Committee wis hes to commend the officers of the Lodges who :-o carefull y followed our Masonic Code.
We wish to thank the Grand Secretary and his staff for their efficiency and
diligence in guiding tho!>e who needed a!>~istance in properly adopting the
changes.
Most Wors hipful, we move that Grand Lodge approve the amendments. and
resolutio ns listed in Exhibit A o f the Grand Secretary's Report with the additions
here inabo ve ~pec ified. and th..:: report of the Co mmittee on B y- Laws he rece ived.
Re!> pectfully !>Ubmitted.
CHARLES H. GRACE. Chairman
ROBERT A. WERTSCH

DONALD M . BI NKERD

JOHN B . M ORGAN

LEONARD A. RICHARDS

ROBERT A. STILES. JR .

RI CHARD L. KRAMER

GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFOR NIA

EX HI B I T

69

C

TRIAL RECORDS

No . 20 18--1 Retrial) A mcmhcr of Oroville Lodge No. 103 . Expe lled Augu~t 6,
1974.
No . 2019----<Retrial) A memher of Indian Well!> Valley Lodge No. 691 .
Re primanded Octohc r 2, 1974.
No . 2024--1Retrial) A memher of Re5eda Lodge No. 666. Expe lled Decemher
6. 1973 . (plural member Vallee J e France No. 329)
No. 2038--An Entered Apprentice of Harl.ling L odge No. 584. ExpelleJ Ot.:·
tobcr 4, 1973.
No . 2039-A member of Frank S . Land Lodge No. 819. Expelled October 2,
1973 .
No. 2040---A member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. SuspendeJ Ft:bruary 6. 1974 .
No . 2041 - A member of Victo rville LoJge No. 634. Acquitted March 13,
1974 .
No. 2042-A member of Brooklyn Lodge No . 225 . Expelled April 2, 1974 .
No. 2043-An Entered Apprentice of Perris Lodge No. 4 l l . Reprimanded May
l, 1974 .
No . 2044-A member of Hawthorne Lodge No. 647. Expelled August 6, 1974 .
No. 2045-A me mber of Temple Lodge No. 14. Expelled September 6, 1974.
No . 2046-A memher of Humho ldt Lodge No . 79. Acquitted September 7,
1974.

ACTION BY GRAND LODGE
The Cummi1tee on Grin·ance.c
There have been presented to your Committee on Grie vances . this year.
twelve Trial Records.
In Trial R ec ord~ Nos. 2018. 2024. 2038, 2039. 204 1, 2044 and 2045, yo ur
Committee ha:. re viewed each record and finds that the proper procedure was followed in each case anJ that the re s ults are .1.upported by the respecti ve records
and that there were no miscarriages of justice.
We there offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That in each of the above numbered Trial Rernrd'> the j udge ment and the result thereof be rati fied. approved and confim1cd.
Your committee has observed the hook of the Proc eedings of the 197 3 Communication indicate s the member accused in Trial Record No. 2023 was found

71

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

guilty and Grand Lodge affirmed the finding and expelled. Actually your Com-

to hear his case. At the request of the accused, the trial was postponed to give
him an opportunity to present his position in the matter following his response to
the charge, which response was deemed to be a plea of not guilty.
The accused was found guilty and he was suspended. The
proceedings appear in all respects to have met all the requirements
and the record supports the finding of guilty.
Although at the present time conviction of a felony does not me an
automatic expulsion, the nature of the offenses of which the accused
here. stands convicted is so repugnant to the concepts of Masonry that
your Committee helieves the accused should be expelled.
The Committee offers the following resolution, and recommends its
adoption:
RESOL YEO: That the finding of guilt in Trial Record No. 2040 be
approved, but that the penalty be raised to expulsion and that the
member be expelled from llll the rights and privileges of Masonry.

70

mittee recommended expulsion but the members of Grand Lodge did not adopt
that resolution hut instead affirmed the finding and penalty voted by the
subordinate Lodge that of reprimand. We feel the present Proceedings should
reflect the true state of facts in order there be a permanent record.
THEREFORE let the se proceedings show that in Trial Record No. 2023 the
member of Southland Lodge No. 618 wa s found guilty of un-Masonic conduct
and the penalty was fixed by Grand Lodge as a reprimand in open Lodge.
Adopted

TRIAL RECORD No. 2019

This matter was before your Committee last year at which time we
felt that the specifications were not sufficient and recommended that
the matter be returned to the Lodge for correction of the specifications
and retrial. which recommendation was approved by Grand Lodge.
The specifications were redrawn and the matter retried. The specifications and procedures are correct in every detail. The accused, a
member of Indian Wells Valley Lodge No. 691, was charged in two specifications. On the first specification the accused was found not guilty by the Commissioners. On the second specification the accused was charged with cohabiting
in the presence of five minor children with the wife of a Brother Mason prior to
the dissolution of her marriage, prior to her marriage to the accused. The Commission found him guilty of this specification and of un-Masonic conduct and
fixed the penalty at reprimand. Your committee has carefully examined the transcript and trial record and feel that the penalty of reprimand is not sufficient in
the case of a charge as serious as this which affects the image of Masonry in the
community. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
RESOL YEO: That the finding of guilty of the second specification
and of un-Masonic conduct be approved but that the penalty be raised
to suspension thereby leaving to his Lodge the time when he can be
restored to membership.

TRIAL RECORD No. 2040
A charge of un-Masonic conduct was filed against the accused. a member of
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, the specifications being that he had conspired to commit bribery, and that he had committed perjury before a Grand Jury. The accused
had previously been convicted by Jury Trial in a United States District Court for
hoth offenses. The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the conviction, and the Supreme Court of the United States denied the accused a petition

TRIAL RECORD No. 2042
The accused, a member of Brooklyn Lodge No. 2:!5, was charged
with a systematic scheme, over the course of years. of filing false
claims resulting in the theft of hundreds of thousands of <lol I ars from
the Medi-Cal program of the State of California.
At trial in- Superior Court for the County of Alameda. the accused
plead guilty to grand theft and was sentenced to the California Medical
Facility, Vacaville, California for the tem1 provided by law.
The accused did not respond to the service of a charge of un-Masonic conduct
from his Lodge.
The Master of Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 investigated the evidence,
found the accused guilty, and fixed the penalty of expulsion.
The record discloses an ahundance of evidence to sustain the
Master's findings and, in the committee's opinion, proper!; fixed the
penalty at expulsion. However, as has occurred in the past, a Trial
Master was not appointed. Because of this irregulurity in procedure,
the matter should be reversed and sent back to th e Lodge for the
Master to secure the valid appointment of a Trial Maqer for his review
and submission of a report to our next Annual Communication.
For reasons heretofore stated, we offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the action of the Master be reversed and ~et ;,i~ide
and that Trial Record No. 2042 be returned to the Lodge for the
appointment of a Trial Master. that he make his inve~tigation and file a
report at our next Annual Communication.

72

PROC EEDIN GS OF TH E

GRA ND LODG E OF CALI FORN IA

TRIAL R ECOR D No. 2043

We theref ore offer the follow ing resolution:
the Trial Comm ission in
RESO LVED : That the findin g of guilty by
No. 3 be affirm ed but
and
I,
No.
ns
Record No. 20-U as to Specificatio
that the accus ed be expel led
that the penal ty be raised to expulsion and
from all the rights and privileges of Maso nry.

. No. 41 l was charg ed
An Entered Appre ntice Maso n in Perris Lodge
that he had falsel y
wit
to
ct
condu
onic
with three co unt s of un -Mas
in that he had previ o usly
answe red Quest ion No. 8 of his applic ation
nic Lo dge, had falsel y
prese nted an appl ic at ion to a nothe r Maso
n in. that he had been
catio
ap~li
replie d to Ques tion No. 9 .of his
ornia and had falsel y
Calif
rn
e
Lodg
nic
rejec ted by anoth er Maso
he had. read all the quesreplied to Quest ion No. 16 to the effect that
ents therei n were true.
tions in the applic ation and that all of the statem
ted in a trial th a t .he
The accus ed answe red th e charg es and admit
that he had applie d
was
n
had falsif ied hi s applic ation . His expla natio
and h.ad been elec965
l
.
ry
Janua
in
for Degre es in a Califo rnia Lodge
e m May, 1965
Degre
First
his
for
r
appea
to
ed
ted. That he was notifi
_ place d an
Lodge
that
er of
and while in the prepa ration room a Broth
, but to
him
upon
rrred
_conf
e
objec tion and he did not have the D~gre
fees.
ation
applic
his
of
the contra !)' had reque sted the return
applic ation for Degre es
He furthe r states that when he subm itted an
discu ssed ~his matte r
he
,
1971
to Perris Lodge No. 4 l l in Dece mber ,
the quesu ons as he
r
answe
to
him
d
advise
with his recom mend ers who
had .
unequ ivoca lly t_h at the
The evide nce prese nted at the trial show ed
Lodg e No. 42 .after the
accu se d had been reject ed by Los Ange les
n had dete rmine.ct that
igatio
objec tion had been place d, a nd an inves t
nry, and th at his fees
Maso
of
es
he was unwo rthy to receive the Degre
ion.
reject
of
we re returned with a letter
accus ed guilty on speAfter trial, the Trial Comm ission found the
speci ficati on No. 3
and
8,
No.
ion
Quest
to
cifica tion No. l relati ng
as to . speci fication No. 2
relati ng to Quest ion No. 16. and not guilty
, and fixed the pena lty. a t
relati ng to his answ er to Ques tion No. 9
n are clear and micati?
app!
repri mand . The quest ions on the
l answ er_ both (1)
1voca
1nequ
and
t
hones
equiv ocal. They requi re an
uixm which to build a Mabecause a disho nest answe r is a poor base
entitl ed to know any past
sonic caree r and (2) becau se the Lodg e is
inve stigat e the reaso ns fo r
to
able
be
dereli ctions of the applic ant and
an y previo us reject ion.
cant could .. shop. aroun d "
If it were other wise, a prosp ective appli
polita n comm umty . w1.thmetro
a
in
ularly
for a sui table Lodg e, panic
unsuc cessful "Sho pping
out the Lodg e ever know ing about his prior
excur sions .
falsif icatio n of an
Your Comm ittee has tradit ionall y held th a t any
hensi b le and
repre
most
y
is
l
appli catio n know ingly and inten t ional
deser ves expulsion.

73

TRIAL RECORD No . 2046

charg ed with un-M asonic
A Memb er of Humb oldt Lodge No. 79 was
deadl y weap on . Due to
a
with
t
l
assau
condu ct based o n a c harge of
the charg es and a some some confu sion cause d by an amen dmen t of
lete a nd prope r recor d
what ambig uous plea by the accus ed , a comp
. We under stand that
review
was not prese nted to this Comm ittee for
d. Since it is the
sente
re
p
and
such a recor d can be prepa red
Recor d to assu re
Trial
h
eac
review
to
ittee
respo nsibility of the Comm
verdi ct is supthe
that
that prope r proce dure has been follow ed and
Reco rd be
Trial
this
that
ry
por ted by the evide nce, it is ne cessa
docum ents.
sary
neces
the
with
ented
return ed to the Lodg e to be augm
n.
tio
resolu
ing
follow
the
offer
We therefore
ed to the Lodg e to be
RESO LVED : That the Trial Recor d be return
sidera tion.
recon
for
mittee
Com
this
to
ed
return
augm ented and then
By separ ate actions each of the resolutions presen

ted were Adop ted .

Respe ctfully subm itted,
ALFRED J. M ,COURTNEY , Chairman
MELV ILLE H . NAHIN
LD S. MORRISON

HARO
F. JOSE deLAR IOS
PETER D. ANDERSON

GEORGE R . GROSZ
PHILIP J. DAVIS

PROCEEDl'lCJS OF THE

EXHIBIT D
VETERAN BUTTONS
Issued September I. 1973toScptembcr 1, 1974----1602
Total 50 Ycar Buttons Issued to Datc-21 .818
Total 75 Year Buttons bsue<l to Datc-14
'AMI

1\:\0 l.CHJCit~ '\,O

O·\ 11· 01 k·\l\I'< ;

Abbot!, A>.i A (~63)..... . . . . . . . . 4 -24-24
Ahney. lknJ.in1in E. (41>8J... . . . . . . X-2X-22
1\branh, Berne W. (4J7).......... 9-22-23
Abram,. William (324) ........... 10-20-19
Adarm, Dennis L. <567). . . . . . . . . . 5-17-24
Adam>. Howell H. (605) ......... 11-28-23
Agna. Edward (167) . . . . . . . . . . . 11-22-23
Albrecht. Edwan.J J. <564) ........ 3-31-24
Alhm. George H (319)...........
4-3-24
Alexander. Allen F. (271 ) ......... 2-19-21
Alcxam.ler. Lee E. !33o ) . . . . . . . . . 7-26-24
.A.lc ~ ander. William E. r 18R1 ... .
8-11-23
Alkire. Charles F. (774J.......... 5-26-23
Allen. Emc >t A. !349) . . . . . .
10· 27-23
Allen. Harry C. 1150).... . .....
2- 17-23
Allen. Liston 0. (403) ......... , .. 8-30-23
Allen. Lloyd J. 046) ............ 10-30-23
Allochi s . Bernard P (502 ) ... . . . .. 6-30-24
Althouse. Anhur W. (662)..... . . . 6-17-23
.A.ltshuler, Samuel (139) .......... 10-17-23
Amo>, Harry F. (400 ) ........... 5-19-23
Ander'°n. Alhen K. 1356 ). . . . . . . . 4-21-24
Ander>on. Arvid E. (38) . ......... 5-20-24
Ander>nn. Carl W. !2 1K). . . . . . . . . . 9-23-23
Anderson. Donald S.C 0001...... 9-24-23
Ander>on. Emmett A. (648 ) . . . . . . 7-11-24
Ander>on. EmestO. (21 0 ) ........ 11-22-23
Anderson, Raymond (587). . . . . . . . 3-20-23
Anderson. Roben A . (442 )...... .. 2-23 -24
Angerm an. Sidney A. <458). . . . . . . 7-12-24
Am.lock, Elmer A. (4 58 ).... . . .. .
7-12-23
Anlo nioli . Frank (388 ).. .. . . . . . . . . 6-26-23
Anto nio li . Leo n (388).. . . . . . . . . . . 3-11-24
Appel. Jo hn M (210 ) .. . ..... . ... 7-31-24
Appel. Merv) n (3441.
. .. .. .. .. .
2-5-24
Anm tron g. Leighto n <58) . . . . . . .
9-28-23
Arm , trong. Roben G . (542 ) . . .. . . . 12-4-23
Arno ld. Cecil D. (327 J . . . . . . . . . . . 2-28-24
Arnold. Eri c C. (22!!) . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 - 1-23
Arno ld. Howard S. (481l'l ... . . . ... 5-11-17
Atkinson . La urel L. (247 ). .. . . . . ..
4-4-24
Atwater. Herben G. (525)... . .. . .. 7-29-24
Atwood, A. Pittman (346). .. . . .... 12-4-23
Au erbac h. O swald K. (3 71) ....... 3-14-24
Augspurger . Roben W (202 ). .. ...
4-8-24
Augustine, Wesley H. (405 ) . . .. .. 12-11-23
Auld. William (225 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-10-24
7-16-24
Au rado u. Clement E. (123).
A.\ebon . Delben F. (378). . . . .. . .. 1-26-24
A) ic>wonh, Gilhen M . (510) . ..... 5-15-24
Babcock . Homer M. (61)..
8-22-23

'"- \1~ ~'ll umc;1·. '-O

12-8-23
Backer. Ahraham ( 1361 ..
Baird. John (363 ) ........ . ...... . 12-15-23
7-6-23
Baker. Carl 0. (68) ............. .
3-1-24
Bakst. Aaron D t529) ........... .
12-12-23
Ballentine. Glenn F (543) ..
1-12-24
Ballwanz. Emil W. t 3'12 >......•••
Balsdon. Harold H {240) ........ . 11-1-23
Balt7, Jean C. (21 0)
........ .. 4-26-23
4-23-24
Banni>tcr. Glennell B. (557> ..... .
6-27-19
Barger. Harry A. ( ll7) ...... .
Bart.er. Samuel D. r419> ......... . 518-23
2-27 -24
Barnett. George D. <53 8) ..
Barney. Harry L. (403 ) ......... . 10-18-23
Barr, Willard (356) ............. . 12-17-23
11-5-23
Barringtun. Harry (7 46 1........ . .
Bam>w>. Chester R. (79) ........ . 10-18-23
Barry, Nathan E. (327) .......... . 9-27-23
Ban a, G<xJ frcy ( 84) .......... . .. . 5-28-24
Baskette. Lemoyne (367) ......... . 6-28-23
Bassett. Freeman (481) .......... . 4-28-24
Ba sye. George W. (S) . . . . • . . •..•• 3-15-24
Batchelder. Leo J. (3 ) ..... .. .... . 5-19-24
Bate>. John D . 1348 1........... .. 6-26-24
Batie ~ , Will iam R . (402) ....... . . . 5-15-23
Bauer. Herben F. ( 120) .......... . 12-13-23
Bauer. Jo hn E. ( 35 8 ) ........... . 5-29-24
11-24-23
Baughn. Joseph E. ( 168) ..
Baughn. Orval E. (466 ) .... . ..... . 2·21-20
Bauman. Ado lph (652) . ........ . . 11-4-22
Baumgardne r, Frederick (204) .... . 1- 30-24
8-23-23
Baxter. Da vid R. ( 505> ... . . .
Baxt er. Frank E. (2 15) . ..... . .. .. 7-28-21
Baylo r. Man,on A. <524) ...... , . . 2-18-24
Beard, G eorge M 16 1) . . .... .. . . . 1-25-24
Beauchamp. Ralph ( 803 1 .... . ... . 12- 18-19
Beck . Alhcrt ( 16) ........... . .. .. 5-14 -24
Bed . Carl G ( 209) . . . .. . .... . . . . 7-16-23
Bec k. In ma n W. t 265 ) ...... . ... . . 5-25-23
Bec ker. Jo, eph A ( 356) ....... . . . 12- 10-23
Becker. Otto J (356 ) ... . .... . .. . 12-10-23
Bedro,ian, Ham A. (363) .... . .. . 10-11-19
Beine. George H. (1 9 1) ... .. ... . . . 12-14 -23
Belcher. William H. (428> . . . . ... . 1-21-24
Belknap, Chc,ter W. (68) . . ..... . . 4-24 -24
Bell. Frank Palmer (168) . . ..... .. . 8-27-23
6-2-21
Be ll. George F. (3 72 ) .... . . .
Bell . Llovd 0 . (30 1) . ....... . ... . 5-28-23
Be ll. Ro hen E. (22 5) .......... .. . 2-26-24
Berni" . Ho m er J. (568 ) . ....... . . 4-24 -24
Bennell . John J. t36 7 ) .. ... .. .... . 11-24-23
Bennett. Joseph A t 22} . . . ...... . . 11-3-23

GRAND LODCiE OF CALIFOR."JJ1\

Benson. Howard W ( 325) ....... .
6-4-23
Bcrcovitz. Zacharia' (3!!2> ....... . 6-27-24
Berg. Juliu' L. (639) ......... . .. .
1-9-24
Berger , Ollo W. ( 180) ........... . 11-10-23
Bergstrom. Herben F. (375> ...... .
6-7-24
Berkey. David E. (4 28 1. ......... . 5-23-17
4-8-24
Bernhard , John L. (461 ) ........ ..
Betz. Herman C. ( 334) .......... . 10-30-19
Birk . Gle n J. (2 10) .......... .. . . 6-23 -23
Bischoff. Samuel ( 506 J .......... . 7-30-24
Bishop. Will iam A (661 ) ........ . 2-11-24
Bittles . Isaac ( 169) . . .. . .. ... .. .. 11 -21-23
Blacklock. Dorn T. (5 25 ) ...... . . . 11-22-23
Blair. Drexel R. (486) ........... . 10-17-23
Blair. Millard F. (346) ........... . 7-22-24
12-7-23
Blake. Philip L. (J63) ... .
4-26-24
Blakemore. Ru ben E. (483) ... . . .
Blanco . Joseph R. (372) ...... . .. . 6 -26-23
Blankenship. hmes H. (8) ....... . 6-23-24
Blatt. Fred J. (349) ............ .. 12-8-23
Blaueis. Samuel (374 ) ........... . 9-11-23
Blec kner. H. Gordon (44 5 ) ....... . 7-23-23
6-7-23
Blcvim.. Darly B. ( 156J ......... .
Bley. Osc·ar C. (205 1........ , ... . 5-27-24
Blcksom. Franklin C. (541) ...... . 11 -8 -23
Bloomfield. Maxwell A. (346) .... . 3-10-24
Blum. Daniel F. (632) ........... .
1-8-24
Bodwell. Donald C. \584) .... . .. . 1-17-24
Boehne. Frederick (564) ..
5-26-23
Boelter. Horace B. (394) ......... . 1-31-24
Boge, Albert J. (3 75 ) ............ . 11-3-23
5-8-24
Bohannon. James R. ( l~ I ) . • . . • . . .
Boland. Chester E. (233 ) ........ . 7-26-24
Bo llman. Ralph D. (448) ......... . 2-26-24
Bonomi. Joseph (Z22 ) ......•.••.• 7-30-23
Boomhower. Charles E. (87) ..... . 1-31-24
Boore. Jame> P. (338 ) ........... . 3-24-19
Booth. Elihu B. (o8 7) .......... .. 2-18-24
Booth. John M. (93) . . . . .. . ..... .
5 6 -22
Boothby , Everett W. (671) ...... .. 5-31-24
Borach. Leon L. (81 ) .... . .. . . , .. . 4-22-24
Bonowman. George (5 64) .. .. . . .. .
5-1-24
Boscac c i. Ralph (244) ..... . .. . . ,
5-8 -24
Boschan. Edwin C. ( 355) . ....... . 11-17-23
Bo urbon . Ro llo P . ( 192 ) . . , . . ,., .. 7-21-23
Bourt.e . Thomas E. (407) . . .. . .. . 4-26-20
Bovey. Clare nce ( 20)
. . . .... . . 9-26-23
Bo wcock. Haro ld G. (4 80) ... . ... . 4-27-23
Bowden. George F. (40) .• , . • , ..
6-20-24
Bowen. Elroy M. (567) . . . . .. .. . . 3-29-24
7-6-22
Bowles, Charl es E. (225) .. . .. . .. .
Box . W illiam (272) . . . •• .... • , • , 4-14-24
Boyd . Leonard R . ( 123 ) . . ....... . 9 -27 -23
Boyd , William E. (531) ... , .. . ... . 11-9-23
Boys. Wallace F . (479) .. .. . .. . . . . 1-18-21
Bradford. Samue l C. (267) ..... . . . 9-22-23
Bradley. Edwin R. (584) . . . . .. .. . . 6-26-24
Bradley . Foster N. (6 10 ) ...... . .. . 2-26-21
Bragg. Arthur 0. t 12 2) .... . . , . . . . 10-3-23
Bramhle . Perry A. (594 ) .. .... . .. . 9-28-23
Branstetter. Poner B. 1634) ...... , . 11-22-23

75

Braug. Gu,tavc A. (.l73J ......... . 2-U-24
Brau,, Leon (.\.'i2).
4-16-IK
Bravender. Norri> F. (557) .... . . . . 1- 16-24
Brazeal. Richard H. (22) . •••.•.••. 9- 15 -23
Breuner , Wallace E. (20) ........ . 5-22-24
Bridge,, George W (405) ..... . . . 1-29-24
Billhan. Lee W. (144) ......... .. . 4-29-24
Brink. Charle' A (206) ....... . . . 11-3-23
Brink, Henry S (230) . . .
5-12-24
Brinkman. Waldo F. (594J ....... .
8-4-19
Brown, Alfred R. (290 ) .......... . 7-28-23
Brown. Barton W. (6 371 ... . . .. . . . 5-2!!-23
Brown, Elmer L. (563 ) ......... . 11 -27-23
Brown, Elmer R. (295) ... . .... . . . 3-26-24
Brown. Elmer W. (8) ......... , .. 11-26-23
Brnwn. Fred H. (264) ......... . . . 9-24-23
Brown. Geo rge A. (358) .... .
2-23-24
Brown. John B. (3 2) ...... . ..... . 6-28-24
Brown. Lc, lic P. (442) .......... . 3-15-24
Brown. Quincy ( 178 ) ........... . 3-12-24
Brown. Walter <33 2) ............ . 3-27-24
Brownell. Clarence (7 30) ....... . 12-28-23
Brownell. George L. (348) ....... . 12-3-23
Bruce. Robert A. (264) .......... .
6-9-24
Brunner. Frank R. (392) ......... . 6-14-24
Bryan. Luke W. ( 175) ....... .
10-24-23
Buc htcrkirchcn Walter (577) ...... . 5 -28-24
Bu Hard. Homer L. (192) ....... . . . 9-26-23
Bulmore , Laurence E. (541) ...... . 11-2-23
Bunch, Ru,;cll N. 1381 .......... .
2-9-24
Burgoyne. William A. (548) ...... .
3- 7-24
Burnett. Frederick W. )396) ...... . 8-25-23
Bums. Gavin A. (371) ........... . 2-15-24
Bum>. Harold (507) ............. . 3-19-24
Burr. We, ley C. (J6 7) .......... . 4-29-24
Bush. David F. (275 ) ............ . 6-10-24
Bushby. Earl 0. (70) ............ .
4-5-24
Bushey. Earl W. (3 82) ........ . . . 6-21-24
J."-23
Butc her. No lan W. (734 ) . . ....... .
Butler, George F. (225 ) .. . . . . .. .. . I l-20-23
Byrne . Paul C. (520 ) . ... . . .. . . .. . 3-28-24
Caen, George T. (609) .. . ....... . 12-8-23
Cain. Richard T. (48 1) ... . ...... . 5-19-2 4
Call, George H. (399) ... ..... .. .. 3-26-24
Callard . Charles E . (4 57 ) . . ..... . . 10-22-23
Cameron . Archibald (370) . .. . . .. . . 1-.18-24
C ampbell. Do nald (5 18) ........ . 9-11-20
Campbell. Fred L. (5251 . . .... . .. . 7-31-23
Camphell. John A. (374 ) .. . . . .... . 1-30-24
Campticll. Theodo re ( 303 l ........ . 2-22-17
Ca mpbell. Willi am J. (454) ....... . 2-26-24
C ane, M ark P. (42 ) .......... .. .. 9 - 16-18
Canta ndo . Charles (363 ) . . .... . .. . 4-19-24
2-6 -24
Canziani . Antone C. (191 ) ...... ..
Capitano . Antonio ( 10) .......... . 9-16-23
Carey . Grant S. (Iii) ...... ... .. .. 5-30-24
Carff, William F. ( 168) .. . .... . .. . 6-13-21
Carilbo n. Charles B. ( 136 ) .... . . . . 2-16-24
C arley. J esse C. t 554 ) ..... . . .. . . . 10-27 -23
C arl i. Joe M. ( 500>........... . . . 12-21-23
Carlson. Leonard ( 123 ) .. .. ... .. . . 3-20-24

76
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Carlson, Llewelyn C. (324) ........ 11-30-23 Collins, Walker L. (205) . . . . . . . . . . 3-25-24
Carlson, Oscar G. (693) ........ . . 2-11-24 Colman, Leslie E. (202) ........ ..
4-8-24
Carlson, Oscar W. (339). . ........ 1-29-24 Conard, Harold S. (442) ........ .. 4-11-24
Carlton, Charles W. (530) ........ . 4-3-24 Connors, John J. (429) ....... . ... 9-28-23
Carr, Howard C. (3) ........ ..... 10-15-23 Conrad, William D. (20) . . . . . . . . . . 5-8-24
Carroll, John F. (655) ........ .... 11-30-23 Constable, James (136) . . . . . . . . . . . 2-23-24
Carson, Robert N. (22).... .. ... .. 10-1-23 Cooper, Henry (45) . . .... . ....... 11-17-23
Carter, Edwin M. (403) ..... . ..... 10-30-23 Cooper, Robert W. (739).. .... .. . 3-5-24
Carter, Kenneth P. (428) ...... .... 1-24-24 Copley, Almon W. (346) ........ . 11-27-23
Carter, Paul N. (408). . ..... . ..... 2-11-24 Copp, Charles (21).... ...... . .. ..
2-5-24
Cassou, Jean P. (17)... ....... .. . 4-11-24 Cordelie, Howard A. (308) . . . . . . . . 3-27-24
Castlio, Leonard H. (541) . . ...... . 11-2-23 Corley, Joseph W. (465)... ....... 5-31-24
Castro, Charles L. (487). . . . . . . . . . 2-12-24 Cornell, William H. (405) .. . .. .. .. 12-29-23
Cathcart, William G. (351) .... . ... 2-28-24 Correia, Hennan (564) ........ .... 11-22-23
Catherall, Ralph G. (703)... . ..... 5-31-23 Courtland, Leon A. (87) . . . . . . . . . . 2-21-24
Catlett, Charles W. (124).. .... . . . 3-31-23 Covey, Floyd 8. (608) . ........ .. 5-1-22
Cecil, James J. (648) .. . ..... .. .. . 4-21-21 Covington, William (8) ........ ... 11-13-23
Chamberlin, Claude (452) . . . . . . . . . 11-20-23 Cowles, Carl C. (604)... . ........ 12-8-23
Chandler, Jessie 8. (469) ........ . 1-10-24 Cox, James E. (538). .... .... .. . . 7-30-24
Chapman, Mearl J. (637) .. .. ..... 12-13-19 Cox, Leo V. (435). ......... ..... 5-27-24
Chapman, Sargent (13) . . . . . . . . . . . 9-8-23 Cox, William H. (42) ........ .... 5-19-24
Chartier, Fred 0. (25). .. ... . ..... 11-6-23 Crabb, Harold E. (215)... . . ..... . 5-3-24
Chase, Charles D. (554) ..... ..... 11-24-23 Crabtree, Ralph N. (648). . . . . . . . . . 6-30-23
Chenoweth, Hobart Z . (346) . . ..... 10-23-23 Crary, William A. (604).. . ... . . .. 4-28-24
Cherin, Benedict K. (363). ........ 5-10-23 Crawford, Hilary H. (388).. . . . . . . 6-30-23
Cherry, Marion M. (564) .. . ...... 10-23-22 Crawford, William E. (668) . . . . . . . 6-20-24
Chew, Leonard L. (264).. .. .. .. .. 5-31-24 Crawford, William E. (653).. .... . 1-31-24
Chick, Ralph 0. (445).. ... .... ... 6-18-24 Crawshaw, George R. (489).. ..... 8-30-23
Christensen, Anton (622) . . . . . . . . . . 4-26-22 Cresswell, Arthur E. (564) . . . . . . . . 4-29-24
Christensen, Harry (458) ........ .. 10-12-22 Crews, James E. (199) ........ ... 11-21-23
Christman, Elmer P. (328) ........ 10-29-23 Crockett, Clinton H. (338). .. .... . 7-31-24
Christman, William (471).. ... . ... 1-22-24 Cronshey, Richard H. (685).. .. .. . 5-15-23
Church, Charles C. (435).. ... .... 8-18-23 Crook, Ernest E. (110).. ....... .. 8-16-23
Church, Louis S. (622) . . . . . . . . . . . 3-5-23 Cross, Clarke A. ( 166). . . . . . . . . . . 2-25-24
Churich, George M. (388). ..... ... 5-8-24 Cross, William G. (300).. .. .. .... 2-25-24
Cimino, Sebastian (191) ........ .. 6-10-24 Crossland, William (366)... . ..... 5-1-24
Clark, Charles W. (450)... . ...... 4-29-24 Crow, Clarence C. (488). .. .. ... .. 2-28-24
Clark, Waldo W. (250). ........ .. 9-14-22 Crow, Leland A. (488) .... . .. ... . 4-3-24
Clarke, John W. (12).. ... ....... . 4-26-24 Crow, Sylvester L. (103).. ... .. ... 5-26-21
Clarkson, Charles N. (757).. ...... 11-3-23 Crowe, Harold E. (642). . . . . . . . . . . 6-28-24
Classen, Virgil L. (435) . . . . . . . . . . 5-23-22 Culley, Roscoe B. (537) . . . . . . . . . . 5-3-24
Clayton, Willis S. (399).. .. .. .. .. 6-25-24 Cummings, Thomas R. (145). ... .. 6-21-24
Qegg, Courtney G. (541) ........ . 1-31-24 Cunliff, Donald D. (509). . ........ 4-19-24
Clemens, Roy J. (22)... ...... . ... 5-24-24 Cunningham, James (99) . . . . . . . . . . 5-5-23
Clements, C. Alex (679) . . . . . . . . . . 6-3-23 Cunningham, Will H. (358) .. ... .. 1-24-24
Clendenon, Alda L. (35).. . ....... 4-23-24 Curl, Edwin E. (618) .... .. .. . .. . . 10-13-23
Gifford, Glenn W. (464). .. ..... . 2-29-24 Curl, Ray R. (111).. .. .. .. ....... 3-19-24
Cloughley, Harold D. (58)... .... . 1-30-24 Currier, Charles R. (30)... ....... 4-17-24
Coburn, Orville L. (224).. . .. . .... 1-10-24 Curtis, Hal (344). ......... ...... 2-13-24
Cochrane, Amory W. (511) ....... 2-20-24 Curtis, Raymond C. (351) ... . . .... 5-28-24
Coe, Jerome H. (210). . . . ... . .. .. 5-29-24 Custer, Carl C. (615) ....... . ..... 12-23-12
Coffey, Albert C. (199). ......... . 3-15-24 Cutter, Curtis H. (40).. ... .. . . .. . 1-18-24
Cohen, Herbert A. (136) ........ .. 11-20-23 Dabadie, Clyde R. (498).. ... . .... 2-27-24
Cohn, Nathan A. (374). ......... . 3-12-24 Dambacher, Fred L. (281) ........ . 11-14-23
Cole, Carroll M. (422) ........ ... 4-24-23 Damsell, Ernest G. (503).. .... ... 4-29-24
Cole, Lambert (317) .. .. .. .. .. .. . 4-3-24 Danielson, John F. (510) .... .. . . .. 12-20-23
Coleman, James T. (421) .. ... . .. . 1-19-24 Daniger, Joseph H. (241) .. .... . .. 2-22-24
Collard, Sidney N. (326) .. .. .... .. 11-24-23 Darnell, Reed (475). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-8-24
Collier, Robert (714). . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-25-20 Darrah, Guard C. (131)... . .. .. . .. 4-5-24
Collins, Harold H. (225). .. . ...... 8-21-23 Davids, Mark (278). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-28-24
Collins, Lyle D. (534) ... .. ..... . . 10-20-23 Davies, Ian H. (292). ......... ... 6-11-24

NAME AND LODGE NO .

DA TE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

77
DATE OF RAISING

Davies, Paul L. (479). ........ ... 3-31-24 Durkee, Edward H. (400)...
. .. ... 2-23-24
Davies, Philip M. (272). . . . . . . . . . . 6-25-23
Dygert, Roland B. (478) ...... . .. . 10-23-23
Davies, Raleigh E. (24) ........ ... 10-11-23
Eames, James D. (445) . ........ .. 11-17-23
Davis, Alton F. (521)... . ........ 12-7-23 Earley, Joseph M. (719)..
........ 3-13-24
Davis, Charles H. (3).. . . . . . . . . . . 5-26-24 Eaves, Ausie C. (402) ........
. . .. 11-25-15
Davis, Clarence J. (120) .. . ... .... 6-12-24 Ebbert, Raymond (61) .. . ..
.. ..... 6-27-24
Davis, Clemat L. (711). ......... . 9-1-21
Eberlein, Theodore (775). . . . . . . . . . 6-23-23
Davis, Donald D. (615) ..... .. . .. . 3-26-24 Eckerman, Daniel W. (670) .......
Davis, Earl L. (506) ........ .... . 7-1-24 Edgar, Paul W. (210) .. . ........ 10-15-23
. 2-23-24
Davis, Edward C. (591). ......... 9-13-22 Edgemond, John W. (188)
Davis, Enoch A. (479) . . . . . . . . . . . 8-30-22 Edmondson, John B. (367) ... ..... 10-27-23
..
Davis, Eugene H. (2)..... . . . . . . . . 3-15-24 Edwards, Clarke F. (482). . . . . . . 6-28-24
. . . . . . . . 9-26-23
Davis, Harry M. (13).... . .. . ..... 3-5-24 Edwards, John T. (569) ........
Davis, Joseph J. (166)... .. .. ..... 4-21-24 Ed'."'ards, Norman C. (549)... ... 10-29-23
Davis, Thomas H. (618)... . ... . .. 1-31-24 Egtlbert, Norman A. (468)... .. . .. 8-15-23
. . ... 8-9-23
Davison, William E. (244). ....... 5-15-24
Eigle, William N. (457)... . . . . . . . 4-24-24
Dean, George M. (400). . . . . . . . . . . 4-3-23 Eisner, Leslie (374). .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 8-8-23
De Coito, Louis V. (461)... . . . . . . 9-20-23 Ekstrom, Arvid L. (452).
. . . . . . . . . 3-20-20
Decorvet, Pierre F. (17)... ....... 8-17-23
Ele, Vern J. (40) .. .... ........ .. 4-5-24
De Courcy, Stuart L. (405). .. ..... 4-11-24
Elliott, Irving (494). ......... .... 1-21-24
Deets, Walter G. (256)... . .. . . . . . 3-6-24 Elliott, Loren J. (632)...
. ..... . .. I-18-24
De Ferrari, Albert (481). ......... 8-29-23
Ellsworth, Rodney S. (541)... .. .. . 5-10-23
De Jerf, Oscar H. (332) .. .... ... . . 2-28-24
Embertson, David A. (790) . . . . . . . . 4-4-24
De Koster, John C. (336). . . . . . . . . 7-28-23
Emerson, Lloyd G. (166) .. ....... 1-30-24
De Lantey, James R. (637) . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Emlen, Andrew A. (187). . . . . . . . . . 5-1-24
Denda, Theodar G. (549).. . ......
Emlen, John C. (187) ........ . . .. I-29-24
7-4-23
Denner, Samuel G. (752).. . . . . . . . 2-9-22 Emrick, John C. (569). . . . . . .
. . . . . 4-28-24
Dent, William S. (487) . . ........ . 9-19-23
Enderlin, Henry (183) . . . . .
Denton, Walter H. (389). . . . . . . . . . 8-8-23 Enos, Herman I. (546) . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . 7-18-24
. 5-28-24
Derbyshire, Sherman P. (291) . . . . .. 10-18-23
Escande, Louis C. (549)... .. .. ... 7-18-23
Derheirn, Gustave A. (478).. . . . . . . 6-20-24 Eskew, Ira A. (178).. ........
Dermody, Arthur W. (3%).. ...... 1-29-24 Esper, Dwain A. (482).. .... .. .. 5-24-24
.. ... 1-24-23
Deutsch, Sydney F. (458) . . ....... 1-31-24 Estes, Clarence J. (466).. ........
De Vilbiss, Clyde B. (541) ........ 11-10-23 Evans, Leslie E. (489) .. ........ ... 4-19-21
I-24-24
Qe Vos, Alfred A. ('35) .. . . . . . . . . 7-24-23 Evans, William C. (259) ........ .. 10-19-23
Dewar, Leslie L. (188). ......... .
Everard, Redmond P. (374) ....... 11-27-23
9-1-23
Dewar, Robert (653).. . . . . . . . . . . . 7-29-20 Eversole, Keith C. (216).. . ....
. .. 3-16-14
Dewitt, Robert S. (576) ........ ... 10-15-23
Ewald, Henry L. (192). ........ .. 5-22-24
young, Peter (381).. ..... .. .. 6-28-23 Eymann, Ernest A. (57). . . . . . . . . .
2-8-24
~rn:n· Merritt D.... .. . .. ... .
2-1-14
Faber, Carl G. (12) .... . .. . ... . . . 5-14-24
. , enry (465). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-9-24 Faber, Gus (136) ........
........ 4-12-24
D!el.ter, John F. (113) ........ . ...
I-6-23
Falkenberg, Fredrik (393). . . . . . . . . 5-23-24
Dill, Charles Fred (300). ......... 7-31-24
Falkenstein, Edward J. (124) ...... 10-17-19
D!ll, Harold E. (320). ......... . .. 7-26-19 Faulkner, William (735)
..... .. .. . 6-21-18
Dixon, Earl E. (458)... .. . ....... 9-20-23
Feasell , George W. (392) ........ . 10-20-23
~son, Harry (411)... . ........ . 5-25-22
Feder, Jack M. (462) ..... . ...... . 3-17-24
Doe~· Harry B. (621)... .. . .... . .
Feil, George W. (173)...
5-1-24
, Lester G. (61) ........ ..... 4-18-24 Ferneau, Aaron R. (445) .. ..... .. 5-22-24
.. ..
5-19-24
Donaldso
Do
n, Henry H . (564) . . .. .. . . 10-25-23 Femhoff, Frederick (61). . . . .......
. . . . . 5-19-22
....!.~van, Bartley (574). . . . . . . . . . . 7-29-24
Fidel, Steffi M. (292) . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-12-23
~era, Robert A. (426).. ... . ... 2-25-24
Filbert, Clyde L. (19)... ......... 5-19-24
an, Walter E. (20) . . . . . . . . . . 8-30-23
Findlay, Gordon B. (708). . . . . . . . . 6-30-19
Drake, Edward G. (400) ........ .. 10-27-21 F~n, Thomas E. (461) ........
... 11-16-23
Drewett, Leonard E. (635) . . . . . . . . 8-22-22
Fmney, John L. (230) . .. .... ..... 10-26-23
Dudmundson, Bjorguin (561).. ....
3-6-24
Fisher, Edward M. (178). ......... 6-16-24
Duffy • w·ir
Dull
~ tam J · (141) ........ ... 11-29-23
Fisher, Edward R. (206). ......... 5-22-24
Dun' Orville 0. (467) . ..... ... . .. 10-27-23
F!sher, Sidney G. (374) .. . ..... ... 6-10-24
can, Wilbur W. (231) ........ . 11-15-23
F~sk, Alfred C. (301)
. . .. . 5-29-23
Dunk
DunJ um, William E. (541).. ...... 4-14-24 F1tze, Henry W. (584)........
. ... ..... .. . 5-22-24
Dunn~p, Robert E. (697) . . . . . . . . . . 7-23-23
Fla~m, Ivan (461)... .. .. ........ 11-8-23
mgton, Garland (489) ... . .. .. 11-14-23 Flanigan, Samuel R. (87)....
. .... 8-16-23

Bf

78
NAME AND WOOE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OP RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO .

DATE OP RAISING

Graham, Frederick L. (106) .. . .... 12-10-23
Fontanetta, Michael (352) . .. . . .. . : 10-30-23
Granger, Clifford R. (324) . . . . .... 6-15-22
Forbes, Hemen (30) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-29-24
Granger, Forest W. (246) ... .. ... . 7-22-24
Foulds, James R. (549). . . . . . . . . . . 8-22-23
Gray, Ralph H. (259) . ... .... .. . . 9-28-23
Fowler, Dana D. (457) ... .. .... .. 12-14-22
Green, Frank E. (475) .. . . . . . . . . . . 5-8-24
Fowler, Roben C. (290) . . . . . . . . . . 6-30-24
Greenbach, Joseph (44) .. . ...... .. 10-24-23
France , John F. (319) .. .. ........ 5-29-24
Greenberg, Louis H. (374). ... ... . 9-29-23
Francis, Emory P. (469). . . . . . . . . . 5-22-24
Greenberg, Samuel (498) . . . .. ... .. 10-31-23
Franklin, James D. (210). . . . . . . . . . 7-24-24
Greer, William L. (676) . . . . . . . . . . 2-11-24
Freda, Alben F. (574) .. . . . . . . . . . . 2-20-15
Gribble, Ralph E. (583) . . . . . . . . . . . 5-9-24
French, Eugene E. (581).. . . .. .... 1-25-24
Grigg, George T. (388) . ... ....... 2-2-23
Friedman, Eugene J . (335) . . .. . ... 2-16-24
Grim, Ree C. (302) .. . ........... 1-31-24
Friedman, Jerome M. (399) ....... 12-19-23
Gross, Andrew (374) ... .. ... .... . 9-29-23
Frier, Lester M. (396) . .... .. .... . 11-20-23
Groth, Herben L. (41) . ..... .. .. . . 9-27-23
Frincke, Milton H. (14) . .. . . . ... .. 5-14-24
Grubb, Frank J. (324) .......... . . 9-12-12
Fritschen, Carl H. (481) . ......... 10-22-23
Gubser, Raymond B. (392). ... ... . 3-8-24
Frog, Mitchell A. (520). . . . . . . . . . . 8-22-23
Gunther, Charles (531).. .. . ... .. . 3-22-24
Fulkerson, James F. (214) . . ... .. . . 10-30-23
Gutheil, Byron W. (272) ......... . 10-19-23
Fuller, Sidney E. (418) .......... . 6-28-24
Guy, Bernard M. (766) . . . . . . . . . . . 8-2-23
Fulton, Roben M. (149). ... .... .. 6-3-24
Haag, William (127) .. ...... . .. .. 10-22-23
Fusselman, William D. (191) .. . . .. 6-21 -24
Haberer, Louis J . (722) ........... 10-11-23
Gardner, Elmer W. (369) ......... 10-6-23
Hackler, Henry N. (190).... ... ... 4-10-23
Garfinkle, Ben E. (216) . ... . ..... . 8-30-23
Hackney, Ray (667) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-24-24
Garrett, Olin R. (303). . . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Haddock, James A. (290) . . . . . . . . . 3-26-23
Gates, Earl E. (32). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-4-23
Hafford, Milton W. (762).. ....... 1-18-24
Gauthier, Leon J. (602) ... ... ... . . 3-19-24
Hagemann, Edwin E. (218). . . . ... . 9-12-23
Gavin, George D. (144). . . . . . . . . . 5-20-24
Hagenbaugh, William L. (578) .... . 1-14-24
Gee, Roy M. (58) .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-30-24
Haiman, Jacob H. (520). . . . . . . . . . 2-29-24
Gehrig , Joseph J. (454)... .. ... ... 1-29-08
Halder, Herbert 0. (320). . . . . . . . . . 3-26-24
Gentle, Clyde B. (454) . . .. . . . . . .. 8-23-23
Hale, Henry M. (113) .... . . . ..... 9-22-23
George, James P. (212) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-19-24
Hall, Frank G. (405). .. . ... ...... 9-18-23
Gerard, Roy H. (366) . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-24-24
Hall, Godfrey D. (546). . . . . . . . . . . 5-28-24
Geming, George F. (226). . . . . . . . . 8-28-23
Hall, John (541) ......... ... ..... 1-31-24
Gerdes, Fred P. (3) .............. 11-19-23
Hall, Rexford L. (576) .. ......... 1-31-24
Gem, William L. (9) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-20-24
Hall, Roy R. (528). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-26-24
Gerrish, Paul H. (168) . ... ... .... . 6-1-23
Halley, Victor R.L. (458) ....... . . 6-5-24
Gibson, Herman W. (363) ......... 10-23-19
Hamihon , Clarence (455). . .. . .. . . 2-19-24
Gielow, Milton E. (166) .. .. .... .. 10-24-23
Hamsher, Roben W. (512) ........ 9-11-23
Gifford, Daniel H. (802) . . .. ..... . 5-14-21
Haneberg, Henry A. (531) .... . ... 10-26-23
Gilbtin, George (497) . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-29-23
Haney , Fred G. (415) . . . . ..... .. . 1-31-23
Gilben, Jacob J. (520).. . . . . . .. ... 5-10-20
Haney, William E. (378) ........ .. 3-31-24
Gilbert , Joseph C. (637) .. ... ... .. 11-29-12
Hansen, Bernhard (22) ... . ... . .... 6-21-24
Gilbert, Samuel E. (520) .... . ..... 9-21-23
Hansen, Erich C. (401) . ... .... . .. 11-22-23
Gillette, Arthur F. (428). . . . . . . . . . 4-26-23
Hansen, George H. (212).. . ..... . 3-13-24
Gimbal, Leroy M. (188).. ... .... . 3-15-24
Hansen, Henry H. (188) . ... .... . . 6-21-24
Ginn, Lowell H. (489) ....... . .... 6-26-24
Hansen, Roy M. (356) .... . ..... . . 9-24-23
Givan, William B. (416). ... .. .. . . 9-18-23
Hansen, Roy R. (481) . .... .. .... . 6-30-24
Glass, Grove C. (246)... . . . ..... . 2-28-13
Hanshaw, Mervyn E. (471). . . . . . . . 4-22-24
Gleisberg, Edward C. (225 ).... ... 8-18-23
Hanson, Emil T. (147) . . . . . . . . . . . 4-29-24
Glendenning, Leon (322) . . . . . . . . . . 2-24-24
Hanson , Murill H. (711).. . . . ..... 6-25-23
Goble , Duard E. (379) .... .. ..... . 10-24-23
Hanush, Albert W. (569)... . . . .. . . 3-31-24
Goddard, James P. (14) ..... . . ... . 6-9-23
Harb, Peter A. (763 ). . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-20-23
Golden , Nathan L. (374). . . . . . . . . . 4-23-24
Hardin John S. (236) .. ... .. ..... . 12-22-23
Gonzales, Newton H. (168) . ..... . 10-1 -23
Hargrove, Harry L. (349) ... .. ... . 10-20-23
Goodall , Ralph E. (611) . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Harlan, Vaughan R. (513) . . . . . . . . . 9-27-23
Goodman, Mervyn J. (136) ...... . . 2-16-24
Harp, Joseph C. (395) . ... .... ... . 12-13-23
Gorman, Alfred W. (166). .. .... .. 9-26-23
Harper, Ray 0. (584) . ... ... ... .. 5-22-24
Goss, Roy A. (336). .. ... ... ... .. 5-31 -24
Harrington, Paul J. (405) . . . . . . . . . . 3-8-24
Goudey, Ralph H. (87) ...... . .... 9-20-23
Harris, Charles R. (499). . . . . . . . . . 6-8-23
Gould, Harold R. (593). . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-23
Harrison, John K. (487). . . . . . . . . . 3-25-24
Gracier, Earl F. (387)... .... ... .. 7-30-23
Harry, George K. (244) ... .. .. . ... 10-15-23
Grady, Carlton F. (144) ....... ... . 9-25-23

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OP RAISING

Hart, Harold A. (418) . . ... ... .. .. 1-24-24
1-4-24
Harter, Leonard J. (70). ... .... . . .
Hartman, Harry I. (42) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-9-24
l{artman, Wayne, S. (352). . . . . . . . 3-20-23
Harwood, Harold E. (547)... ..... 4-18-23
Hasemann, Frederick (560) . . . . . . . . 9-22-23
Hatch, Alonro H. (358). . . .. . ..... 7-31-24
Haun, Hugo H. (481) .. .. ... . .... 10-20-23
Hauser, Carl (403) ... . .... . ..... . 5-8-24
4-8-24
Hausman, Jack A. (202). . .... ....
Hawkins, William M. (343) .... .. . 12-29-22
Hayes, Charles M. (399) . . . . . . . . . . 3-27-23
Haynes, Harrison A. (615)..... ... 9-21-23
Haynie, Macon H. (192) ... ..... .. 12-22-23
Hays, Allison F. (425) . .... . ...... 12-19-22
Hays , Aoyd A. (475).. ... . . .. .. . 7-28-24
Hazeltine, Irving (569) .. . . . .. . . .. 10-27-23
Healy, Jack Hunt (22). . . . . . . . . . . . 9-24-23
2-9-24
Hedge, Melbourne W. (124) . .. ....
Hedman, Elmer R. (726) . ..... . . . . 10-30-23
Heerdt , William J. (464). ... . ..... 5-23-24
Heimstra, Mark P. (682) .. .. ... . . . 5-19-24
Heinsbergen, Chris (572). . . . . . . . . . 12-4-23
Heinz, Edwin C. (247) . . . . . . . . . . . 4-25-24
Heitzig, Lester (366) . . . . .. . . . . . . . 5-1-24
Heitzman, Alvin (486). . . . . . . . . . . . 4-23-24
Held, Rene Frederic (455) .. . .. . .. . 10-30-23
Helm, Oscar C. (336) ........ . ... 11-23-23
Helt, Joseph E. (482) . .. . . . ... ... . 4-12-24
Henderson, Thomas T. (396) . . .... 11-4-23
Hendricson, Ellis 0. (144) .... . ... 2-19-24
Henninger, Carl M. (334) .. .... .. . 4-14-20
Henry, Guy (319) . .. . . . .... .. . . .. 3-27-24
Henry, Julian S. (752) . ... .. . . .... 10-24-23
Henshaw, Edward~ - (388) .. ... . .. 5-29-23
Hepburn, Alexander C. (584) . . .... 12-11-23
Herben, William (169) . . . . . .. ... . 10-31-23
Herligy, Harold W. (452) .. .. .. .. . 11-7-23
Hersch, Ben C. (479) . .. .... . . . .. 11-21-23
Hertzler, Joseph Z. (465) ..... . ... 10-10-23
Heryford, Daryl L. (719). . . . . . . . . . 6-5-24
Herz, Jay Jerome (344). . . . . . . . . . . 11-24-23
Hess, Fred Charles (493) .......... 6-7-24
Hess, Harry J. (732) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-27-23
Hetzer, Clarence (375). . . . . . . . . . . . 11-19-23
4-5-23
Hiatt, Glenwood (141) ...... . .....
Hiatt, Henry L. (385) . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-6-24
H!gg!nbotham , John (103) ... ... ... 3-18-24
Higgins , Raymond T. (166) . . . .. .. 10-24-23
Highiet, George (19).. .. . . . ... . . . 1-28-24
Hill, John C. (331) .. ........ .... 9-29-23
2-2-23
Hill, Richard T. (616). . . .. .. . . ...
Hills, Leslie W. (1) . . . .. ... ... .. . 12-1-23
Himmelman, George R. (349)... .. 9-15-23
Hird, James T. (418) ... . . .. . . .. .. 12-22-23
Hirson, Henry (335) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Hitchcock, Emmett (502).. .. . ... . 6-16-24
Hix, Clifton A. (645). . . .......... 12-1-23
8-8-24
Hjerpe, Bernard J. (376). .... ... ..
Hobbs , Charles C. (140) ... . .... .. 10-29-23
Hobbs, Leonard A. (392) . . . . . . . . . 1-23-24

NAME AND LODGE NO.

79
DA TE OP RAISING

Hobden, Ernest H. (528) . .. . . .. .. . 8-21-20
Hoepner, Alfred C. (396). . . . . .... 5-24-24
Hoferer, Cyril J. (426) ............ 2-15-21
Hoffelt, Merrill M. ( 117). . . . . . . . . 4-22-24
Hoffma, Frederick (525) ... . . .. ... 4-15-24
Hoffman, Kenneth P. (296) ..... . .. 5-14-23
Hoffmann, Gunter (44) .. ... ... ... 10-27-23
Hoghe, Russell L. (445) .... .. ... . 7-20-23
Hogle, Milton M. (245).. . . .. . .. . . 3-10-23
Holdrege, Damon M. (542) . . . . . . . . 5-1-24
Holland, Archie L. (466) .. . .. . .... 7-19-23
Holland, Francis E. (319) . . . . . . . . . 2-28-24
Holland, Hammet Z. (646) . . . ..... 12-12-21
Holland, Roben C. (124). .. .... .. 12-8-23
3-7-24
Holly , Geoffrey C. (685) ..........
Holm, Alfred L. (564) .. . . .. .. . . .. 11-27-23
Holm, Eric M. (325) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-22-24
Holmes, George M. (435). . . . . . . . . 5-20-24
Holsher, Herman T. (226) . . . . . . . . . 8-30-23
Honig, Herbert G. (577).... . ... .. 3-22-24
Hood, John H. (267) ....... . ..... 7-17-23
Hood, Richard A. (179) ..... .. ... 9-1 -23
Hooper, Cecil A. (23).. . .. .. . .. .. 11-30-23
Hopkins, Phillip W. (307) . ... . .... 6-17-23
Hom, Ralph A. (615) . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-16-23
Honon, Harold D. (367). . . . . . . . . . 9-22-23
Horwitz, Abraham (120) .......... 4-12-24
Hosang, Joseph (305) . . .......... 6-12-24
Hoskins, William M. (541) .. .... .. 7-19-23
Hotchkiss, Hemen (612) ...... .. .. 11 -7-23
Houglan, Adrian E. (141). . . .. . ... 5-24-22
Houplin, Roben G. (690) . . . . . . . . . 10-25-23
Houssels, Hubert L. (389) . . . . . . . . . 4-23-24
Houts , John F. (426) . ......... . .. 11-15-23
Houweling, Leonordus (30) . . . . . . . . 2-26-24
Hove , Vivian C. (634) ... . . .. .. .. 4-14-24
Hovick, John H. (319) ........ . . . . 7-29-24
Howatt, Earl L. (336). . . . . . . . . . . . 8-25-23
Howles, Percy W. (388) .... ... ... 10-23-22
Hoyt, Amos (679) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-24-23
Hoyt, Lance A. (19)..... ... .... . 9-24-23
Hubbard, Edwin A. (753). . . . . . . . . 9-27-23
Huber, Louis C. (68) .... . ........ 4-10-24
Huck, Maximilian J . (20). .. ..... . 9-27-23
Hudson, Jack W. (262).. . . . . . .. .. 9-15-23
Hudson, Philip A. (483) .......... 6-19-24
Hughes, Fred N. (483). . . . . . . . . . . 4-7-24
Hughes, Norvell (459) . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-5-23
Hugo, Raymond E. (531) ......... 5-16-24
Hull, Emory 0 . (665) . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-6-23
Hultgren, Harold H. (546) . . . . . . . . . 10-24-23
Humes, Raymond C . (569) ....... . 9-20-23
Humphrey, Harold W. (113) .. .... . 10-13-23
Humphreys, Charles J . (202) . . . . . . 9-24-23
Hunt, John Jay (389) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-25-23
Hunt, Russell G. (367) .... ... .. .. 11-24-23
Hunter, William H. (661). . . . . . . . . 7-24-24
Hurley, Jere E. (310) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-15-23
Hutchinson, Clarence (574) . . . . .... 3-20-20
Hyde, Wallace E. (188) .... ... .. .. 8-11-23
Ibsen, Herman C. (334) . . . . . . . . . . . 2-20-23

80
Nl\ME /\ Nil l.Of)GE NO.

PROCEEDING S OF THE
DA TE 0 1' RAI SING

lhsen, Oscar H. (334).... .. ... ... 5-20-24
lmbeck, Emil H . (525) . . ......... 6-24-24
Imes , Merl Richard (476). ........ 2-21-24
Imrie, Robert W. (405) . . ..... .... 5-13-24
Ingold, Herman W. (215) ......... 6-28-24
Ingram , Charles R. (23) ......... . 8-8-23
Ingram, Elmer Earl (827). .... .. .. 9-24-23
4-2-24
lngrnm, William E. (543) .........
Irelan , Irving C. (22). . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-26-24
Irvine, Jack B. (20) . . ... .... .. ... 11-26-23
4-9-24
Ivers, Harold A. (379) . . . . . . . . . . . .
Iverson, Leslie J. (345) ...... ..... 7- 12 -24
Iverson , Milton C. (30) ... ... ... . . 11-27-23
Jackson, Edward A. (99) .... . ..... 5-28-24
Jackson, George W. (671) . . . . ..... 12- 16-15
Jacobs , Edward (314) .... .. . . .. .. 7-30-23
Jacobs , Harold S. (335) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-26-24
8- 1-24
Jacobson , AnhurL. (436) ........ .
Jacobson, Herben L. (240) . . . . . . . . 5-10-24
Janson, John (352) .... . .... . . ... . I0-23-23
Jenkins , Harry R. (494) .. . . . . . . . . . 10-8-23
Jenkins, Huber (278) .... .... . ... . 10-24-23
Jensen , Elmer D. (10) . . . . ........ 12-17-23
Jessup, Charles W. (701) ......... 6-26-23
Job, Alfred J. (139) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-18-22
Jodrey , Leslie H. (726) . . . . . . . . . . . 3-18-24
Johanni s, Hermann (561) . . . . . . . . . . 1-29-24
Johann sen, Ernest J. (605) . . . . . . . . 3-28-24
Johnson , Anhur W. (399) ... ... .. . 8-15-23
Johnson, Edward A. (215) ... .. ... 4-26-24
Johnson, Edward G . (349). ....... 3-22-24
Johnson, Edward 0 . (399) .. . . . ... 7-23-23
Johnson, Edwin P. (463). . . ...... . 3-6-23
Johnson, Fred A. (168). .... . . . ... 7-31-24
Johnson, Harry W. (468) . .... . .. .. 8-21 -23
Johnson , Leonard (442) . . . . . . . . . . . 2-23-24
Johnson, Marrel D. (24). .... . .... 5-30-24
Johnson, Stephan (560) .. ... ..... . 12-22-23
Johnston , Edward H. (40) ......... 11-30-23
Jolley , Lewis C. (215) . . ... . ..... . 7-31-24
Jones, David H. (16)..... ... .. .. . 5-3-24
Jones , Elmer L. (214) ..... . ...... 12-20-21
Jones , Everett R. (537).. ..... . . . . 3-15-24
Jones, Francis W. (439) .. .. ... ... 12-22-23
Jones, Frederick W. (6IO) ....... . . 3-25-24
Jones, Moses C. (242) .. .......... 10-25-23
Jorgensen, Andrew (336).. ... .. ... 2-22-24
Joyce, Gerald S. (352) . . .... .. . . .·. 11-29-18
Jurgewitz, Harold (336) .... . ...... 10-27-23
Kamler, Sidney (136)... .... ... .. 9-25-23
Kankas , Harry E. (475) . . . . .. . .... 11-19-23
Kaufman, Edward (136). ......... 4-26-24
Keiser, William A. (513) ... .... . . I0-24-23
Kelley, Clark (35) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1-19-24
Kellogg , George T. (469) . . . . . . . . . 1-24-24
Kelly, Frnnk D. (396).... . . . ... .. 9-25-23
Kelly, Handel W. (583).. ..... . ... 7-25-24
Kenney, Lorin J. (136) . ... .. . . ... 4-12-24
Kenniston, George (457). . . . . . . . . . I0-9-23
Kenny, James S. (286)... ... .. . . . I0-4-23
Kerr, William J. (464) . .... . .. . ... 11-22-23

NA ME AND LODGE NO .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DATE O F RA ISING

Kessel, Albert J. (394)... . . .. .... 6-19-22
Kessel , Carl F. (378) ... . .... . .... 10-23-22
Ketels , Irving S. (603) ............ 6-27-24
King, Anhur C . (418) .. ..... . .. . . 2-23-22
King, George E. (346) .. . ...... . .. 1-29-24
King , Howard 0. (462) .. . ... . .... 11-16-23
Kinkade, Henry C. (274) .. .. . ... .. 10-26-23
Kinney , Edward B. (577). ... .. ... 6-28-24
Kinsey , Ralph D. (I )....... . . . . . . 1-21-24
Kipp, Leonard F. (191 ) . ... .. ..... I0-10-23
Kirchner, Fred W. (512) . ..... .. . . 11-26-23
Kjorlie, Hilmen E. (13) ........... 2-13-24
Klinker , Roy D. (397) .. .. ..... .. . 11-22-23
Klitgaard, Otto (609) ......... .. .. 4-24-24
Knipe , Charles F. (12) .... . ... . ... 9-22-23
Kocher, William M. (210). ... .. .. 1-12-24
Koenig , Valentine A. (375) .. .... . 11-26-23
Koester, Frederick (225) . . . . . . . . . . 9-25-23
Kork, Louis D. (551) ..... . . . ..... I0-18-23
Krnmer , Eugene L. (375) .. . .. . ... 12-1-23
Krase , Edmund C . (429) ....... . .. 10- 15-23
Kreiss , Stephen H. (168) . . . . . . .... 11-2-23
Krejick , John F. (349) .. . .. .. . . . . . 11-24-23
Kreutzer, Joseph (520) ..... . . . . ... 1-18-24
Krikac , Stanley J. (204) . . .. . . .. .. 5-20-23
Krips, William H. (348) ... . ... .. . 11-20-23
Kronman , John L. (612) ......... . 8-22-23
Kruell , Anhur H . (378) ......... . . 10-22-23
Kruger, Henry A. (212) ... . ..... .. 11-28-23
Kumle , Chester A. (545) . . . . . . . . . . 2-29-24
5-3-24
Kutter , Ernest P. (574) ...........
Lacey, William G. (521) .. .... ... . I0-16-23
Ladarre, Delphin E. (136) ......... 2-16-24
Laist, Richard 0 . (166) .. . ........ 5-28-24
Lalone , Ernest A. (406).... . ..... . 1-27-21
2-7-24
Lamb, Glen H. (297) ...... . . . ....
Lamb, Ralph F. (307) ............ 1-31-24
Langsdorf, Harry (216).... . . . . . . . 8-20-23
Larke, Thomas H . (166) ...... . .. . 5-14-24
Larsen , Atwell H. (110) .... . ..... 9-27-23
Lass, John C. (344).. .. ... . . . ... . 7-14-24
Latham, Allen E. (292) .. . . . .... . . 12-13-23
Latin , Oscar Ray (669) . . . . . . . . . . . 3-31-24
Lauer, Donald T. (346)... ... ... . . 4-22-24
Lauer, William E. (319) ...... . ... I0-30-23
Laughrey, Raymond D. (349) ...... 9-18-23
Launspach, William R. (542). . .. .. 9-28-23
Lavine, Edward D. (149). ...... . . 6-1-24
Lawhead, Donovan D. (616) .. ..... 3-25-24
Learn, Kenneth R. (347)... .... . . . 3-30-24
Leask, James B. (38) .. . ....... .. . 6-27-24
Ledwich, John R. (225) .......... . 8-18-23
Lee, Alfred H. (529) .. ..... . . ... . 6-13-24
Lee, Stacey C. (181) ... .. . . . . . . . . 7-5-24
Lee, William G. (16) ........ . . . . . 5-30-24
Leeds, Alason P. (542) .. .. ... ... . 8-30-23
Leffen, Alfred E. (348)... .. . .. . .. 3-27-24
Leggett , Laurence H . (389) .. .. .... I0-23-22
Lehmann, Herbert C. (19)... . .... . 5-19-24
Lehrbach, Herman J. (374) ... . . . .. 6-11-24
Leonard, Clarence A. (124) ... . . . . 6-19-23

NAME /\NI> LOIJGE NO.

l>l\TE 01' RA JSJN<;

NA ME /\ NI> l.OIX ; E NO.

81
DATE 01' RAISING

Le Roy, Emmons W. (322) . ... . ... 6-30-24
Martenet, Morris W. (207) . . . . .... 12-28-23
Leve, Marshal S. (42) . . . . . . . . . . . . I 1-24-23
Manin, Charles E. (363) ........ . . 2-12-20
Levin, Samuel C . (136) ........... 3- 15-24
Manin, Charles P. (328) ........ . . 9-20-23
Levy, Nate (120) ... .. . . .. .... ... 11 -22-23
Martin, Daniel S. (657).. ... .. .... 5-22-24
Levy, Raymond R. (529) ... . ..... I0-19-23
Martin, Herben B. (708) ......... . 9-18-23
Lewis, Gerald R. (280). . . . . . . . . . . 11-5-23
Manin , John T. (530) . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Lewis, Joe L. (663). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-23-22
Martin, Victor H. (554)... ... ... . . 1-25-24
Lewis, Keaumoku A. (368). . . ... . . 1-24-22
8-3-20
Marx, Norville L. (520). ..... . ...
Lewis, Lester M. (494) ........... 10-8-23
Masoero, Michele (30) .. .. ....... 10-25-23
8-9-23
Lewi s, Stanley (461).... ... ......
Mason , Fred L. (271 ) . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-26-23
Libby , Henry F. (663) ............ 11-7-23
Mason, George M. ( 187) . . . . . . . . . . 1-29-24
Libby, Vernon A. (14) ....... . ... 11 - 14-23
Mathews, Walker G. (259). . . . . . . . 4-25-24
Liebich, Alfred A. (753) . . . ... .... 4-10-24
Mathias, Charles M. (269) .. . . ... . 9-22-23
Lilley, Elvin C. (57) .. . .... . .. . .. 2-28-24 May, Douglas A. (366) . .. .... .. .. 11-22-23
4-2-24
Lind, Ernest C. (191) ...... . .....
May , William L. (41) ............ 8-23-23
Lindauer, Earl S. ( 150) . . . . . . . . . . . 8-15-23
McAnhur, Roy B. (531) .. ... .. . . . 11-30-23
Lindsay, Charles E. (206) . . . . . . . . . 12-22-23
McCart , Marion (277) .. . . . .... . .. 11-27-23
Lindstaedt, Frank F. (497) . . . . . . . . 11-16-21
McCanney, Allen G. (210) . ... . . .. 10-18-23
Lindstrom, Clarence (393) ... ... ... 6-20-24 McClellan, Richard W. (493) .... . . 12-23-21
Lingle, William H. (374) . ... .. ... 11-11-22 McClory, Harry G . (40) . ... . .. . .. 2-21-24
6-7-24 McConnell, David L. (622) . . . . . . . . 5-12-24
Linn, Glen R. (2) ............ . ...
Lippman, Nathan (42) . . . ... .. . ... 4-26-24
McCord, Glen E. (582). . . . . . . . . . . 5-6-24
Livesay, Robert (576)... ... .. .. .. 2-14-24 McCoy , Clyde L. (210) .. .. . .. .. .. 11-16-22
Livingston , Stanley M. ( 169) ...... 1-30-24 McCoy, Malcolm R. (450) .... . . . . 1-28 -24
Lloyd , James A. (290) . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-8-23
McDonald, Stanley G . (522) . . . . . . . 11-30-23
Locati, Peter J. (209) . ... .... .. . .. 7-16-24 McDonnel, John L. (492) . ...... . . 10-29-23
Lockhart, Harvey A. (394) . . ...... 6-21-24 McFarland Arch L. (76).. .... . ... 3-12-24
Lodwick, Charles H. (437) ........ 3-15-24 McFarland Tillman (666) . . .... . ... 11-22 -23
2-7-24 Mcfarlin, George C. (607) ... ... . . 9-27-23
Loewenthal, Leon M. (120) .. ... ..
Long, Newell R. (167) ...... . .... 3-28-24 McGarr, Henry H. (195) . ......... 12-1-23
Lorenzen, Reynold W. (206).. .... 11-3-23 McGimsey, Charles R. (201)... ...
6-2-24
Losher, Sidney E. (206) .. .. ... . . . I0-27-23 McGregor, Alexander (400) . . . . . . . 2-23-24
2-7-24 Mcinnis, Elmer E. (348). . . . . . . . . . 5-22-24
Loucks, Charles E. (194). ........
Lowe, Clara E. (207) ... . . . . . .. .. . 5-18-23 McKeown, Robert J. (147) .... . ... 8-25-23
Ludka , Richard J. ~124).. ... ..... 7-27-23
McKinney, J. Paul (535).. . . . .... . 1-23-24
Ludlum, Robert V . (767).. .. . .... 6-19-23
McKnight, Harold I. (144) ...... .. J-29-24
Lund, Everett C . (22) . ........... 10-27-23 McLeish, Donald M. (561) . . . .. ... 2-28-24
Lustgarten, Robert (42)... . ..... .. 7-31-22 McMurphy, Fred E. (679). . . . . . . . . 3-19-23
Luttropp, Austin F . (705) .... . .. . . I0-10-23 McNew, Rayburn (358) .... . ... . .. 5-29-23
Lyall, Ralph H . (648) .. . ...... . .. 1-28-24 McPhetridge, James (635) . . ... . . . . 12-6-23
Lynn, Herman C. (348) ... ... ... .. 11-15-23 McRoberts, Lewis H. (737) . . . .... 1-23-19
Lyons, Martin J . (243). . . . . . . . . . . 5-14-24 McVey, Millan D. (481) ..... ... ..
7-3-14
Mac Cartney , Jack (672) . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24 Mead, Lloyd W. (422) . .. .. .. . . . . 12-15-23
Mac Farlane, Lloyd D. (79) .. ..... 8-28-23 Meairs, Rufus C. (395) . ... . . . .... 1-21-24
Machell , Harry T. (569). . . . . . . . . . 7-28-24 Meakim, Vincent (225) ....... . .. . 8-18-23
Mac Kay, Ian F. (633) ......... . . 4-15-22 Meaney, Chester L. (139) .. ... . ... I0-17-23
Mac Kenzie, Kenneth (124) .. ... .. 10-13-23 Medina, John A. (336). . . . . . . . . . . 2-22-24
Mackie, Charles (358) ... ... . ·. . . . . 2-23-24 Meek, Charles E. (268) . . ........ . 4-18-24
Mac Pherson , Adam (98) .... . .... 12-29-23 Meese, Charles 0. (61) .. . ... .. ... 4-15-21
Mahan, Burt B. (224) . ... ... ... . . 11-8-23 Meru;etin, Harry (703). . ... . ...... 2-28-24
Mahany , Ralph Herbert (136) . ... .. 5-27-24 Me e, Homer J. (766) . . . . . . . . . . .
2-8-23
Malcolm, Clarence (117) ... . ..... . 1-29-24 Meister, Elmer R. (389) .......... 1-23-24
Mannina, Rosario (479) . ... .. .. . . . 12-17-23 Melvin, Herbert C. (3) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-30-24
Maple, L.G.E. (35) .... ... .. ... .. 9-I0-21
Mensor, Merrill C. (260). . . . . . . . . . 4-28-24
Marcantelli , George (464) . . . . . . . . . 8-22-24 Menz, Otto F. (41 I) .... . ... . . ... 11-4-23
Markham, Everett S . (593). . . . . . . . 8-22-23 Mercer, C. Frantz (576). . . . . . . . . .
5-9-24
9-1-23 Meredith, A. Gordon (I)... ... . . . . 12-1-23
Marlcham, Howard (497).. .... .. ..
Markham, Russell M. (117) . . . . . . . 5-20-24 Merkelbach, Julius (461) ..... .. ... 10-26-23
Marmin, Albert H. (435) . . . . . . . . . . 4-29-24 Messick, Herbert H. (522) . . . . . . . . 11-23-23
MMarshall , Edward M. (280) .. . . .. .. 6-30-24 Messick, Joseph W. (38) . .. ..... .. I0-26-23
arshall, Stanley C. (466) . . . . . . . . 2-26-24 Metcalfe, William H. (802) . . . . . . . . 5-26-06

82
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OF RAISING

Metz, Richard 0. (241) ........... 12-21-23
Meuser, Harold G. (225).... . . . . . . 6-7-24
Mew, James A. (458) ............ 3-14-24
Meyer, Edmond (191) ............ 9-28-23
Meyer, Samuel S. (68) ........... 12-15-23
Middagh, Floyd R. (191) ......... 11-19-23
Middents, Herbert C. (541) ........ 8-16-23
Middleton, Peyton G. (314) ....... 3-19-24
Millard, John F. (246). . . . . . . . . . . . 2-23-24
Miller, Carl P. (334) ............. 12-19-23
Miller, Charles S. (367). . . . . . . . . . 6-28-24
Miller, Clarence F. (308)......... 9-27-23
Miller, Fred J. (57).............. 1-19-24
Miller, Gordon J. (444) ........... 12-17-23
Miller, William G. (370).......... 9-28-23
7-3-23
Mills, Charles E. (712)...........
Mills, Edwin S. (278)............ 4-30-24
Mintz, Jacob (42) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-26-24
Miotti, Robert G. (22)............ 9-15-23
Miserez, Joseph L. (494).. . . . . . . . . 4-28-24
Mitchell, Harold A. (22).......... 11-3-23
Mitchell, L. Lyman (191) ......... 12-1-22
Mitchell, Mike A. (546). . . . . . . . . . 9-24-23
Mitchell, William D. (242)........ 5-13-24
Mittenthal, Norman J. (136)....... 3-15-24
Mockler, Richard L. (259)........ 6-20-24
Moesle, Robert K. (479).......... 4-21-24
Moje, William L. (405) ........... 11-22-23
Joldenhauer, Lloyd E. (435)....... 6-19-23
Monday, James A. (537).......... 8-28-23
Mondo!, Jeantet (17). . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-10-23
Moody, Frank J. (307)...... . .... 9-22-23
Moore, Alden B. (215) ........... 12-13-23
Moore, Hugh T. (220) ............ 10-26-23
Moore, Isadore (520). . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-27-24
Moore, John H. (558) ............ 10-31-23
Morgan, Christopher (323)........
3-8-24
Morgan, Frank M. (478).......... 1-29-24
Morrill, Donald D. (525).......... 7-15-24
Morris, Joseph E. (278) ........... 11-28-23
Morrison, Richard M. (594)....... 2-12-23
Muir, Fred N. (419).............. 8-16-23
8-7-23
Murphey, Theodore C. (723)......
Murphy, Earle B. (225) ........... 11-22-23
Murphy, Frederick (499).......... 11-9-23
Murphy, Harry T. (57) ........... 10-25-21
Murphy, Howell B. (26).......... 5-12-24
Myers, Harold S. (672) . . . . . . . . . . . 11-29-22
Myers, Lawrence B. (366)........ 3-15-21
Myles, James R. (400). . . . . . . . . . . 2-27-23
Nadel, Julius M. (375) ........... 12-18-23
Naley, Frank E. (351) ............ 10-22-23
Neddersen, Richard (648) ......... 12-27-23
Needham, Edwin L. (475)......... 7-10-24
Neefus, George F. (528) .......... 10-30-23
Neff, Elmer J. (635)............. 2-28-24
Neff, Harold G. (677)......... . .. 2-20-19
Neistrum, Harold R. (528). . . . . . . . 7-2-24
Nelson, Carl R. (690)............ 5-27-24
Nelson, John W. (44)............ 2-15-22
Nelson, Neil W. (722) ............ 11-6-19

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Nelson, Oscar E. (489) ........... 10-25-23
Nelson, Thomas C. (356) . . . . . . . . . 9-1-23
Nelson, Verne A. (3)............. 6-17-24
Nelthorpe, Lindsley (258). . . . . . . . . 3-1-24
Ness, Roy Otto (268). . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-9-24
Neu, Dennis F. (113)............. 12-8-23
Newcomb, Philip S. (564) ......... 11-22-23
Nichols, Clifton (461)............ 1-11-24
Nickerson, Merritt (58) ........... 10-27-23
Nielsen, Andrew K. (19) .......... 11-26-23
Nielsen, Waldo F. (22) ........... 11-12-23
Nielsen, Walter H. (572). . . . . . . . . . 12-4-23
Nielson, Harold P. (549).......... 1-23-24
Nieman, Edward L. (457). . . . . . . . . 4-22-24
Niles, Lawrence G. (390). . . . . . . . . 5-29-22
Ninus, Cecil D. (521)............ 12-8-23
Nissen, Harlan J. (445) ........... 10-22-23
Nix.on, Amos B. (Ill) ............ 2-21-24
Noble, Thomas (618)............. 7-25-23
Nolan, Harry L. (306)............ 7-26-23
Norberg, Carl R. (405)........... 1-22-24
Nordblad, Philip E. (319)......... 1-25-21
Norse, Lloyd E. (574).. . . . . . . . . . . 2-9-24
North, Roy 0. (149). . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-26-23
1-9-24
Northmore, Robert (260)..........
Norton, Webster V. (22). . . . . . . . . . 5-24-24
Nye, Gaylord K. (20). . . . . . . . . . . . 3-20-24
Nye, Harris T. (384)...... . ...... 1-28-24
Nylander, John E. (681).......... 9-3-23
Nylen, Agner, R. (21)............ 6-18-24
Oakford, Leon M. (392) .......... 10-20-23
O'Connell, Daniel (528). . . . . . . . . . 3-28-24
Odneal, Walter G. (124).......... 5-10-24
Oehler, Fred J. (58) .............. 12-20-22
Oergel, Frank D. (768) ........... 12-30-21
Ogburn, Vernon V. (349) ......... 11-20-23
Oglesby, Walter T. (452).... . . . . . 7-2-24
Ohlson, Carl R. (396) ............ 11-20-23
O'Leary, Ercal R. (587).......... 9-29-23
Oliver, Albert W. (445)........... 4-23-24
Olson, John T. (61).............. 2-15-24
Orlopp, Oscar (383)..............
1-8-21
Ortlieb, Martin (35). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-5-24
Osbun, Emmett (300). . . . . . . . . . . . 2-25-24
2-8-24
Osburn, Henry N. (324)..........
Ossenbriiggen, George (245) . . . . . . . 5-30-24
Ossenbriiggen, Harry (245) . . . . . . . . 6-3-24
Oster, Charles J. (209)........... 2-27-24
Oswell, Benjamin (42). . . . . . . . . . . . 4-26-24
Otterson, George J. (245)......... 4-15-24
Otto, William A. (420). . . . . . . . . . . 9-30-23
Owen, Elmer W. (111)........... 5-17-24
Owen, CJt:orlle H. (378)........... 5-31-24
Owen, R1ch1e E. (382) ........... 11-21-23
Packer, Donald H. (368).......... 4-24-23
Paine, Howard T. (818)........... 3-31-19
Pairman, Robert C. (746) ......... 10-16-23
Panitz, George L. (244) . . . . . . . . . . . 11-24-23
Parker, Richard C. (480). . . . . . . . . . 2-23-23
Parker, "Theodore (351) ..... . ..... 11-22-23
Parks, Thomas M. (701) .......... 12-12-23

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

83
DA TE OF RAISING

Parrish, Jefferson (187). . . . . . . . . . . 5-16-24 Porter, James L. (400)............ 5-27-24
parsons, Le Roy W. (178)........ 3-31-24 Poston, Robert E. (475). . . . . . . . . . . 9-24-23
Passarelli, Louis (764). . . . . . . . . . . . 1-30-24 Powers, Clifford H. (309) ......... 11-28-11
Patterson, Benjamin (106)......... 3-12-24 Pozanac, Stephen (193).. . . . . . . . . . 8-3-23
Pattison, Andrew (202) . . . . . . . . . . . 12-8-23 Pracht, Charles H. (87) ........... 8-14-24
Pattisson, Arthur H. (226)......... 5-15-24 Prawitz, Charles R. (322)......... 1-27-21
Paull, Lorin A. (479). . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-27-23 Price, Bernard W. (120).......... 6-14-23
Paulson, Fred M. (524) ........... 11-30-23 Prindle, Edward L. (19). . . . . . . . . . 4-24-22
Paulus, Elra P. (615)............. 6-6-22 Pringle, Leslie H. (244) ............ 6-19-24
Payne, Sydney E. (455)........... 4-22-24 Prior, Conway A. (307). . . . . . . . . . . 4-19-24
Pearce, Noel A. (20). . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-30-23 Provan, Francis H. (243). . . . . . . . . . 12-8-23
Pearson, Robert (341) . . . . . . . . . . . . I 0-2-23 Pullen, Henry J. (549)............ 8-29-23
Peaslee, Ernest B. (20) . . . . . . . . . . . 10-22-23 Purdy, Donald F. (387).. . . . . . . . . . 6-7-23
Peck, Wesley D. (475) ........... 11-19-23 Purtill, Edward J. (87)............ 4-10-24
Pedlar, Marion E. (258). . . . . . . . . . 2-2-24 Quaglino, James A. (209)......... 7-16-23
Peluse, Michael J. (320) .......... 12-26-23 Quick, Gustav A. (291) ........... 3-18-24
Pembridge, David R. (124) . . . . . . . . 9-5-23 Quick, Warren M. (351) .......... 10-22-23
Pendell, Alva S. (104) ............ 12-15-23 Quinnell, Edwin (479)............ 11-7-23
Penner, Julius V. (385).. . . . . . . . . . 3-25-24 Raaberg, Arthur L. (505).. . . . . . . . 10-8-23
Perdue, Ira J. (578). . . . . . . .. . . . . . 9-19-23 Raas, Ernest G. (120)............ 4-12-24
Perelman, Noe S. (335)........... 5-15-24 Ralph, Walter H. (78) ............ 11-27-23
Perkins, Louis (441)............. 6-17-24 Ramey, Harry D. (525) ........... 5-18-23
Perkins, Milton H. (392) .......... 11-17-23 Randolph, Elton A. (672). . . . . . . . . 3-22-24
Perrett, Joseph C. (320) ........... 11-26-19 Randolph, Franklin G. (35)........ 3-17-24
Perrin, Kurt M. (672) ............ 12-21-23 Rapp, Charles A. (260)........... 5-30-23
Perrin, Tolbert M. (635) . . . . . . . . . . 5-8-24 Rasmussen, Harry 0. (569).. . . . . . . 6-30-24
Perry Lynn No. (672)............ 11-7-22
Rasmussen, James W. (531)....... 5-12-24
Peters, Charles D. (509). . . . . . . . . . 4-22-24 Rasmussen, Louis I. (405)........ 6-24-24
Petersen, Carl P. (741)........... 2-17-23 Ratner, Ezra (520). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10-30-23
Petersen, George J. (497)......... 1-23-24 Ratto, Earl E. (217). .. ... . . . . . . . . 5-3-19
Petersen, Gunnar (695) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-9-23 Reber, Oswald (429) ............. 11-30-23
Petersen, Marinus P. (188)........ 8-11-23 Redfern, Donald W. (528) ........ 11-15-17
Petersen, Nis (204).............. 4-25-24 Redman, Marion R. (483)......... 2-21-24
Peterson, Arthur L. (541) ......... 11-16-23 Reed, Alvin M. (588) . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-20-24
Peterson, George E. (479). . . . . . . . . 5-29-24 Reed, James H. (30). . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-24-24
Peterson, Henry (~94)............ 6-18-24 Reichestetter, Emil (464).......... 7-26-23
Peterson, Robert H. (399)......... 1-30-24 Reilly, Gerald H. (713). . . . . . . . . . . 6-6-24
Peterson, Roy S. (452)...........
3-5-24 Remensperger, William (144) ...... 10-30-23
Peterson, Walter G. (325). . . . . . . . . 6-20-20 Reynolds, Albert E. (228) ......... 12-15-23
Peterson, Walter R. (247) ......... 12-21-23 Reynolds, Emery T. (455) ......... 10-16-23
Petzold, Ernest H. (476).......... 1-18-24 Reynolds, Homer H. (685) ........ 12-10-23
Pfeiffer, Ralph E. (481)........... 5-29-24 Reynolds, Theo. A. (543) ......... 12-12-23
Phillips, Elmo E. (400). . . . . . . . . . . 5-18-22 Reynolds, Thorvald (537). . . . . . . . . 3-22-22
Phipps, Roger (262) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-23-23 Rhinelander, Andrew (292) ........ 10-25-23
Phister, Henry E. (418) ........... 9-29-23 Rice, Francis H. (384). . . . . . . . . . . . 4-28-24
Pickering, Leland L. (666)........ 6-15-21 Richard, George A. (378)......... 1-26-24
Pierce, Dudley H. (481).......... 2-1-24 Richard, Jerome J. (374). . . . . . . . . . 9-25-23
Pierce, Robert S. (35)............ 1-30-24 Richardson, Allen (542). . . . . . . . . . 4-9-23
Pierson, Earl C. (204)............ 6-24-24 Richardson, Harold (505) . . . . . . . . . 6-24-24
8-9-23 Richardson, Paul K. (337) ..... : . . . 2-20-24
Pierson, Elwyn F. (20)...........
Pietsch, Adolph P. (352). . . . . . . . . . 5-27-24 Richter, Leon C. (634). . . . . . . . . . . 4-28-24
Pilley, J. William (642) ........... 12-14-21 Rickborn, Walter C. (128) .... : ... 11-22-23
Pinto, Jeffrey M. (136) ........... 11-17-23 Riddell, Leslie L. (464) . . . . . . . . . . . 11-15-23
Pittman, Cecil F. (715)........... 3-24-21 Ridings, Henry S. (421).......... 6-25-24
Pitts, Olin H. (244). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-20-24 Riedel, George H. (166).......... 8-15-23
Polich, Todor P. (685).. . . . . . . . . . . 2-26-24 Riesau, Alfred (678) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12-27-23
Pond, Charles D. (10)............ 4-14-24 Rifenberick, William (478) ........ 10-30-23
Ponedel, Sam H. (477) ........... 10-22-23 Rifkind, Joseph J. (415).......... 7-30-24
Poole, John H. (168). . . . . . . . . . . . . 7-24-24 Riggs, Adolfo (334).............. 1-29-24
Portello, George A. (562). . . . . . . . . 11-26-23 Righetti, John (30) . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 1-31-24
Porter, E. Harold (325)........... 9-18-20 Ring, Harold C. (467)............ 3-28-24

84
NAME AN D LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DATE OF RAISING

Ringle , Vere L. (323) ............ 10-22-23
Rishworth , Raymond (547) ....... . 10-14-22
Risley , Palmer C. (259). . . ........ 6-24-22
Ritchie, Earl D. (150) .... . .. ... .. 3-13-24
Ritter, Sam (442) .... ........... . 10-4-23
Roberts , Alexander (422). . . . . . . . . 4-23-24
Robertson, Chester M. (483)... .. . . 4-28-21
6-9-24
Robertson, Edwin M. (770).......
Robinson, Charles (348).......... 6-13-24
Robinson , John H. (309). . . . . . . . . . 5-15-24
Robinson , John R. (466) . ..... .. .. 10-23-23
Robinson , Shayer 0. (541). . . . . . . . 8-30-23
Rodbury, Wesley D. (620)... .... . 5-15-23
Rodewald, Herbert (246) ... ... .... 4-22-24
Roebker, Rudolph (30). . . . . . . . . . . 7-29-24
Rogers , Wallace M. (512). ..... ... 4-3-24
Rohrer, Theodore (169) ........ .. . 11-14-23
Roper, Ross K. (166). . . . . . . . . . . . 5-23-23
Rose , Alfred (9) ...... .. .. .. ..... 9-12-23
Rosenthal , Harry M. (42) . ... . . ... 4-14-24
Ross, Joseph L. (134). . . . . . . . . . . . 6-26-23
Ross , Leo L. (701)... . .......... 8-18-23
Ross, William (718) .. . ........... 10-25-23
Rountree, Edward (38). . . . . . . . . . . 4-29-24
5-5-24
Roush, Frank G. (547)...........
Rowe , John 0 . (228)...... . .. . . .. 4-19-24
Rowe, Raymond A. (613) . .... . . .. 9-21-23
Rowland, Harold E. (660) . . . . . . . . . 3-29-24
Rowse, Wade A. (60) . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-28-23
Ruch, Lawrence E. (87) . . . . . . . . . . 6-8-22
Rude, Arthur (136) ... . .... . ..... 2-16-24
Rummelsburg, Manford (374) . . . . . . 4-8-24
Russell, Clifford A. (541) ......... 8-16-23
Russell, John S. ( 178) . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-19-24
Rutherford , Charles (442). . . . . . . . . 5-26-24
Ruttan, Francis M. (363) . . . . . . . . . . 4-19-24
Rye, Robert M. (40)......... . ... 1-25-24
Sack, George L. (44) ............. 11-7-23
Sacton, Myron F. (19) . ........... 2-18-24
Salmon, Claude E. (480). . . . . . . . . . 6-23-23
Sanchez, Joseph R. (20) . . . . . . . . . . 12-3-23
Sanderson, Aubrey W. (180) . . . . . . 2-28-24
Sanderson, George H. (68).. . . . . .. 5-22-24
Sargent, Lee J. (457) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-24-24
Sarzin, Alfred (336) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-24-23
Sass, Edwin M. (525) ... .. ... . ... 6-17-24
Sass, John P. (187) .............. 6-27-23
Saurett, Harry F. (264) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-23-24
Sauze, Frederick (3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-25-24
Sayers, Aoyd G. (493)... .. .... . . 9-18-23
Schellenger, Davis (494).. .. .. .. .. 6-19-24
Schimmeyer, William (325).. . . . . . 7-27-23
Schirmer, Howard A. (440)....... 6-8-23
Schmidt, Frederick (207) . . . . . . . . . . 4-25-24
Schneider, Joseph (525) ........... 10-25-23
Scholz, Arthur E. (706) . . . . . . . . . . . 6-30-24
7-7-24
Schomberg, Harold (635).........
Schomp, Kenneth K. (144).. . .. . .. 3-24-24
Schrader, Clem J. (207) ... .. . . . . . 2-27-20
Schroff, Charles A. (454) ......... 10-23-23
Schuldt, Wesley W. (327) .. . ...... 3-20-24

NAME AN D LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Schultz, Earl C. (355). . . . . . . . . . . . 7-29-22
Schulz, Henry H. (30) ...... . ..... 11-20-23
Schulz, Hugo V. (207) .... . ... . .. 12-28-23
Schuster, John C. (180). . .. ...... . 12-1-23
Schuster, Nicholas (166) . . . . . . . . . . 6-25-24
Schwake, Charles H. (503) ........ 9-11-23
Schwartz, Irving J. (136) .. . .. . ... . 5-27-24
Schweiger, Louis A. (139) ........ 10-31-23
Schwilk, Norman F. (20). . . . . . . . . 12-3-23
Schye, Carrol P. (423) ... ......... 11-28-23
Scofield Jesse G. (230) .. . . . . . . . . . 10-6-23
Scott, Saxon B. (388). .. .. ... . . . . 2-15-23
Scotton, John B. (538) . . . ........ 10-31-23
Scullen, Daniel D. (260) .......... 11-18-23
Shafer, Frederick J. (703) ... . . . ... 3-17-24
Shaffer, Herbert J. (458) .. . ... .. .. 7-26-24
Sharf, Henry (506) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-5-24
Sharp, Thomas C. (513). ......... 7-30-23
Shaw , Ferdinand (375) .. ......... 10-29-23
Shefte!, Sanford (120) . .. .. . . . . . . . 2-21-24
Shepard, Paul E. (111) .. .. .. .. .. . 12-28-23
Shiells, Lester T. (379). ....... ... 4-16-24
Shimmin, Irvin A. (35) . . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Shively, Donald 0. (620) .. . .... .. 6-21-24
Shoemaker, Benjamin (441) .... ... 7-29-24
Shoemaker, Joseph J. (399). . . ... . 8-15-23
Shoup , Chauncey H. (207) ...... . . 10-26-23
Showers, Earl L. (377) . . . . . . . . . . . 4-25-24
Shunk, John C. (198) .. .... ...... 1-25-24
Siegel , John A. (241). ........... 2-15-24
Siegfus, Stanley S. (739) . . . . . . . . . . 8-8-23
Siegrist, Everett (358) . . . . . . . . . . . . 3-31-24
Silberman , Henry (374).. . . .. . . . . . 5-13-24
Silberstein, Lyonelle (374). ...... . 4-15-24
Silhavey, James (381) ............ 11-8-23
Silleman, William H. (10).. . . ..... 7-21-24
Silvera, Redverse D. (506) . . . . . . . . 7-30-24
Simmons, Francis (513).. ..... . . . . 9-28-23
Simon, Harold S. (120). . . . . . . . . . . 4-24-24
Simpson, Albert (168)... ..... . ... 3-7-24
Simpson, Fredrick R. (577) . . . . . . . . 7-20-23
Slaker, Louis F. (322) . . .. . ....... 7-21-24
Slonaker, Clifton (346) ......... .. 2-12-24
Small, Benjamin A. (561). ... .. .. . 9-18-23
2-1-24
Small, Cecil J. (594). .. .. .. . .. . ..
Smiley, Willard P. (431) . . . . . . . . . . 8-25-23
Smith, Arthur G. (349) ... . .. . . ... 11-27-23
Smith, Arthur L. (482) ..... ..... . 1-23-24
Smith, Chester G. (563) ... .. . . ... 7-29-24
Smith, Oarence M. (594) ...... . .. 1-24-18
Smith, Corwin C. (457) .. .. ....... 10-30-23
Smith, Dale L. (23) . . .. ......... . 11-20-23
Smith, Dan C.A. (300) ... ........ 12-17-23
Smith, David H. (68). . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Smith, Eugene V. (499)... ..... . . 3-14-24
Smith, Fauntleroy W. (182) ....... 4-8-21
Smith, George S. (335).... .... . .. 4-24-24
Smith, Glen R. (578) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-24-24
Smith, Glenn E. (308) ........ . ... 7-26-23
Smith, Harold (483) .... . . .... .... 2-14-24
Smith, Harold W. (166) .. . ....... 10-24-23

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

85
DATE OF RAISING

Smith, Hosmer E. (169) . . . ....... 10-24-23 Stribling, Henry B. ( 192) . . . . . . . . . 5-23-22
.Smith, James D. (826) .. . . . . . . . . . . 9-24-20 Stricklin, Robert L. (380) . . . . . . . . . 8-23-23
Smith, Joseph J. (306) .... . .. ... . . 12-18-23 Strode, Howard C. (I II) .......... 4-29-24
Smith, Junius C. (349) . . . . . . . . . . . 2-20-24 Strowburgh, Harry (528) . . . . . . . . . . 9-29-23
Smith, Ledger (505)..... . .. .. .. .. 1-11-24 Strubinger, Albert A. (40) .... . . . . . 6-25-24
Smith, Lee T. (512). .... .... ..... 6-23-24 Stump, Burling M. (392) . . . . . . . . . . 5-19-23
Smith, Louis E. (87) . .. . . ... . ... . 4-12-23 Stutzman, Noble D. (581) . .... . . . . 7-18-24
Smith, Mortimer (268)...... ..... . 1-14-24 Sublette, Kenneth (575) . .. . . . ..... 1-15-24
Smith, Preston C. (407).. .. . . . .... 3-31-24 Sumner, George H. (663) .. ....... 6-16-23
Smith, Ralph M. (569)... ... . . . .. 5-19-24 Sundin, Sidney (806) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-19-23
Smith, Richard K. (506).. ........ 7-11-23 Sutcliffe, Albert J. (317) ...... . . .. 11-12-23
5-3-20 Svendsen, Jonas (435) . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-19-24
Smith, Theodore F. (626).. .......
Smith, Walter R. (224) . . . . . . . . . . . 4-29-24 Swanson, Elmer L. (57) . . . . . . . . . . 2-26-24
Smith, William M. (99) .. . .. . . . ... 10-31-23 Swanson, Ernest T. (608) . . . . . . . . . 1-28-22
Smylyan, Max (479). ............ 4-27-23 Swanson, William G. (518) .... . .. 8-25-23
Soare, Lawrence H. (440) . . . . . . . . . 4-25-24 Swortfiguer, Arthur (336) . . . . . . . . . 4-22-24
Sobey, John A. (489) .. . . . .. . . .. . 6-19-24 Sykes, William L. (299) ... ....... 10-21-22
Soderstrom, Oarence (210) ....... . 4-4-24 Syvertsen, Carl T. (9) . . . . . . . . . . . . 4-30-24
Sohus, Maurice 0. (452) .. . ....... 10-24-23 Tabeau, Elmer A. (464) . . .. ... . . . 11-15-23
Sommerfield, Michael (529) . . ..... 3-22-19 Tainter, Maurice L. (464) ..... . . . . 2-22-24
Songer, Ora J. (198). . .. ......... 1-24-22 Talbott, Leroy R. (720) .... . .. .. .. 1-17-24
7-6-21
Sonne, Karl H. (407).... . . .... . ..
Talkington, William W. (198) . . . . . 6-26-23
Sotter, Carl R. (166) .. . .. . ..... . . 11-28-23 Talley, Ray S. (476) ...... .... .. . 6-27-24
Sparhawk, Festus L. (222) .. .. . ... 12-17-23 Talsma, Charles J. (79) ..... ...... 4-29-22
Spatafore, Joseph (499). . . . . . . . . . . 9-19-23 Tamblyn, Colin C. (13) ... . . .... . . 1-19-24
Speer, John W. (268)... . .. ...... 2-18-24 Tarr, Byron D. (346). . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-25-23
Spencer, Harry R. (518) . . ........ 10-22-23 Tarr, Cedric W. (408) ....... .. . .. 5-15-23
Spencer, Henry C. (322) .......... 12-27-20 Tavolacci, Frank (320) .. .. . . .. . . . 11-24-23
Spicer, Chauncey R. (504) .. . ... .. 9-3-23
Taylor, Marcus B. (446) .. ... .... . 2-20-24
Spickerman, Fred N. (256) .... . ... 4-24-24 Taylor, Stanley M. (551) .... . ... . . 4-1-24
Spiess, Henry R. (175) . . . . . . . . . . . 12-4-23 Tell, David E. (260) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-28-24
Spires, Elton C. (645)......... . . . 5-12-21
Temen , Earl W. (494) . . . . .. . ..... 11-26-23
Spowart, David A. (525) . . . . . . . . . . 11-20-23 Thacker, Harvey J. (475) ....... .. 1-29-23
Sprigg, Rodney S. (392) .. .. ...... 10-29-23
Thatcher, George P. (685) .... . .... 5-17-24
Staff, Arthur N. (593). . .. ........ 8-18-23
Theihoff, Eldred V. (242) .. . . . . . . . 8-29-23
Stanton, George R.• (370) . . . . . . . . . 2-9-24
Thieben, Joseph (120) ........ ... . 5-22-24
Staples, Elwood M. (55) . . . . . . . . . . 6-20-24
Thielmeyer, Richard H. (44) . .. . ... 4-30-24
Stasulat, John (719) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-9-24 Thomas, Bert S. (40) ....... .. . ... 12-21-23
Steams, Francis A. (662)... ...... 1-26-24 Thomas, Byron G. (594). . . . ...... 5-22-24
Steele, William N. (307). . . . . . . . . . 11-24-23
Thomas, Edward W. (405) . ....... 1-22-24
Stein, Raymond E. (324) .. . .... . . . 12-15-20 Thomas, Ernest L. (50) .. . .. . . .. .. 11-24-23
Steinmetz, Rudolph (564).. .. . .... 2-26-24
Thomas, George H. (35) . . . . . . . . . . 5-29-24
Steinmetz, William F. (349) .... . .. 10-23-23
Thomas, John L. (209) ... .... . ... 6-29-23
Stendahl, John E. (344) .. ... . ..... 12-12-23
Thomas, Kenneth E. (541) . . . . . . . . 9-24-23
Stephens, Harold B. (540).. . .. . . .. 1-17-23
Thomas, Paul S. (421) .. .. ...... . . 4-18-23
Stephenson, Lamberth (558) . . .... . 4-12-24
Thomas, Raymond J. (3) .. . .. . .. .. 10-22-23
Sterett, Lester G. (482) .. ......... 11-24-23
Thompson, James N. (188) ........ 8-6-24
Stem, Silvey (344) ..... . ......... 10-22-23
Thompson, Lewis C. (280) . . . . . . . . 6-30-23
Stewart, Lawrence (297) . . . . . . . . . . 6-2-23
Thompson, Seymour B. (406) . . . . . . 2-20-24
Stewart, Max K. (84). .. ... . .. ... 1-25-24
Thompson, Thomas C. (804). . . . . . 6-25-24
Stewart, Reuben W. (505) ... ... ... 8-15-23
Thomson, Herbert W. (460) . . . . . . . 12-5-23
Stice, Robert H. (568)..... .. . .... 1-19-24
Thom, Guy F. (23) ......... ... .. 3-25-24
Stitch, Abraham L. (623) .. . . .... . 12-13-19
Thorp, Albert J. (38) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-9-24
Stites, Charles R. (648).. . . . . . . . . . 8-18-22
Thrall, Frank M. (123) . . . . . . . . . . . 5-28-24
Stocks, Darrell C. (617). . .. ...... 8-18-23
Thunen, Lewis C. (521) .... ...... 11-20-23
Stone, Waldo H. (12)........ . . .. 1-26-24
Tickner, Alfred H. (44) . ..... ..... 11-28-23
Story, Charles T. (247).. . ....... . 3-7-24
Tidrick, George A. (542) . . . . . . . . . 8-23-23
Strada!, James H. (313).. . . ....... 7-19-23
Tidyman, Willard F. (247) .. . ... .. 11-3-11
Stragies, Arthur (454). . . . . . . . . . . . 9-18-23
Tieman, Beverly H. (349) .. . . . . . . . 9-28-23
Stratton, Samuel L. (586). . . . . . . . . 2-22-24
Tietjen, Albert D. (14). . . . . . . .. . . 2-9-24
Stray, George R. (427). ........ . . 7-23-23
Tilston, Arthur N. (631) . . .. . ..... 10-22-23

86
NAME AND LODGE NO.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DATE OF RAISING

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Tindall, Samuel C. (169).......... 1-23-24 Washburn, George 0. (417)....... 3-12-13
Tindell, Conrad C. (523). . . . . . . . . . 8-22-23 Waters, Basil W. (370)........... 6-11-24
Toakes, Floyd K. (315). . . . . . . . . . . 1-31-24 Waters, William L. (8) ........... 11-17-23
Toms, Gerald C. (594). . . . . . . . . . . 4-23-23 Watson, Frederick (567) .......... 12-13-19
Tonsor, Louis F. (542)........... 6-21-23 Watts, Herbert S. (139)....... . . . . 8-29-23
Towle, Herbert J. (346) ........... 10-20-23 Weatherly, Lyston A. (259)....... 4-28-24
Towne, Amos C. (633). . . . . . . . . . . 4-25-24 Weaver, Jesse R. (591)........... 8-23-21
Towne, Kendall B. (168)......... 8-17-23 Webb, James S. (110)............ 4-29-24
3-8-24
Tracy, Bernard (621) ............. 11-27-23 Webber, John H. (143)...........
5-1-24 Weber, Harold D. (569). . . . . . . . . . 9-24-23
Trafton, Harold F. (110)..........
Treleaven, Glenn W. (296)........ 5-12-23 Weber, Robert E. (478). . . . . . . . . . . 1-22-24
Trepte, Walter (35). . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5-4-24 Weed, Theodore (534) ............ 11-21-23
Trood, Gilbert S. (166)........... 5-21-24 Weeks, Robert N. (502) . . . . . . . . . . 5-26-24
Troth, Dana S. (275)............. 1-21-24 Wegener, Richard A. (22)...... . . . 11-3-23
Trousdale, Charles E. (558). . . . . . . 4-10-24 Weiner, Morris (716) ............. 11-15-23
True, Boyce T. (558)....... . . . . . . 7-23-24 Weisberg, Joseph D. (42) ......... 10-27-23
1-9-24 Weiss, David (674).............. 10-4-23
Turner, David A. (335).. . . . . . . . . .
Turner, Thomas F. (400).......... 9-22-23 Welch, Francis E. (608).......... 6-18-23
Turner, William L. (531)..... . . . . 11-9-23 Welch, Ivor L. (562)............. 3-12-24
Tumey, Cyril T. (366) ............ 10-25-23 Welch, Paul B. (392)............. 9-17-23
3-1-24 Wells, Donald E. (626). . . . . . . . . . . 3-28-24
Tuttle, George W. (537)..........
Tyler, Harmon H. (384).......... 1-23-23 Wells, Glenn W. (512) ........... 12-15-23
6-7-24
Tyroler, Andrew (374)............ 8-21-23 Wells, Harold J. (256)............
Uhlinger, Henry F. (80).......... 5-24-24 Wells, Samuel C. (253).. . . . . . . . . . 2-9-24
Umland, Gustave H. (388). . . . . . . . 9-29-23 Wendell, Richard H. (455)........ 5-20-24
Underwood, Robert W. (198). . . . . . 6-17-24 Wendorff, Alfred C. (20) ......... 10-24-23
Urstadt, Milton A. (479). . . . . . . . . . 6-30-24 Werk, Walter H. (324)........... 3-13-24
Ute, John C. (556) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8-9-23 Weske, Christian A. (824). . . . . . . . 5-4-23
Utecht, Albert E. (332) . . . . . . . . . . . 7-19-23 West, William C. (650). . . . . . . . . . . 6-23-24
Van Cleave, Louis (616).......... 9-20-23 Wharton, George C. (642)........ 4-16-20
Van Deventer, Arthur F. (45)...... 5-12-24 Wheeler, Dennis B. (530)......... 1-25-24
Van Dusen, Frank H. (626) ....... 10-12-23 Wheeler, Rae A. (356)........... 8-23-23
6-4-23 Whelpley, Thomas H. (454)....... 1-10-24
Van Dyk, Leonardus (134)........
Van Meter, David H. (750)..... . . 7-27-23 Whiser, Isadore (42). . . . . . . . . . . . . 6-29-20
Van Sant, George H. (327) ........ 7-31-24 White, Thomas C. (331).......... 12-4-23
Van Valkenburgh, Norman (662). . . 4-3-23 White, Will H. (3). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9-24-23
Vernon, Ford H. (337)........... 6-11-24 Whiteford, James W. (752) ........ 11-30-23
Vickers, Charles W. (98) ......... 11-10-23 Whitesell, Walter L. (327)........ 9-13-23
Vickroy, George M. (84)......... 12-4-23 Wightman, Walter D. (38)........ 5-13-24
5-8-24 Wilde, Louis F. (505)............ 9-12-22
Vollmar, John G. (215)...........
Voyne, Mechial V. (22) .......... 10-29-23 Wilder, Fay A. (392)......... . ... 6-30-24
Wagenet, Julian M. (345). . . . . . . . . 3-20-24 Wilkie, William A. (260). . . . . . . . . 2-28-23
Wagner, Maurice (623). . . . . . . . . . . 4-23-24 Wilkins, Alva K. (297)........... 10-6-23
3-2-23
Wahle, Conrad J. (139)........... 2-29-24 Williams, Charles F. (732)........
Walden, Leslie (627)............. 11-1-23 Williams, Fred (558). . . . . . . . . . . . . 2-20-24
Walker, Buck (323).............. 9-6-23 Williams, John E. (233).......... 5-17-24
Walker, James B. (313)........... 9-27-23 Williams, Wesley C. (59) ......... 12-29-23
Wall, Harold E. (567) ............ 10-12-23 Williamson, Lester L. (489)....... 4-17-24
Wallace, William L. (387). . . . . . . . 7-5-23 Willison, Miles W. (458)......... 6-16-23
5-1-24
Wallerstein, Monroe (344) ........ 11-24-23 Willitts, William H. (349).........
Walrod, Merritt D. (698).. . . . . . . . . 4-14-24 Wilson, Archie U. (442).......... 9-24-23
Walters, Clarence 0. (454)........ 9-20-23 Wilson, Carl E. (478) ............ 12-29-23
Walton, Jim H. (545). . . . . . . . . . . . 9-25-23 Wilson, Charles 0. (58).......... 5-14-24
Wancke, Hilding C. (210)......... 5-24-24 Wilson, Clyde E. (478)........... 4-15-24
Wapelhorst, Emil J. (243)......... 7-10-23 Wilson, Newton E. (178)......... 4-14-24
2-7-24 Wilson, Stanley R. (464) .......... 1-31-24
Ward, Frank A. (307)............
Wardlow, Otis G. (132)..... . .... 8-24-22 Winkler, Henry W. (347) ......... 10-25-23
Warne, James E. (687) ........... 11-28-23 Winkler, Paul H. (564)........... 7-24-23
Warren, Walter M. (346) ......... 12-16-22 Winterburn, Nathaniel (166). . . . . . . 6-25-24
Wartban, Lloyd C. (447).......... 7-27-23 Wise, Leland N. (498)............ 4-16-24
Wasem, Lester L. (726). . . . . . . . . . 4-5-24 Witbeck, Charley J. (111) ......... 5-16-24

NAME AND LODGE NO.

DATE OF RAISING

Witke, Emil E. (392) ............ . 10-29-23
Witt, Andrew B. (374) .......... . 4-16-24
Witt, Harry G. (407) ............ . 4-8-24
Witt, Rudolph F. (454) .......... . 11-27-23
Wolfe, Harold 0. (181) .......... . 5-5-19
Wolfe, Horace L. (358) .... . ..... . 12-20-23
Woltz, Max M. (218) ........... . 1-16-24
Wood, Charles H. (648) ......... . 2-21-16
Wood, Charles L. (361) ........ .. 10-29-23
Wood, Remington J. (341) ....... . 4-17-24
Wood, Stanley A. (506) ......... . 8-6-24
Woodman, Arthur R. (549) ....... . 8-22-23
Woods, Edward K. (560) ........ . 9-25-23
Woods, Harold R. (290) ......... . 7-28-23
Wooster, Philip A. (1) ........... . 1-31-24
Wosk, Harry S. (35) ............ . 11-23-23
Wright, Melbourne (113) ......... . 8-11-23
Wright, Percy C. (429) .......... . 10-19-23

NAME AND LODGE NO.

87
DATE OF RAISING

Wuebel, Andrew H. (226) ......... 12-20-23
Wurdig, Paul L. (87) ............. I 0-18-23
Wylie, Ephrain (330).. . . . . . . . . . . . 4-28-24
Yocum, Charles T. (320)......... 6-28-24
Yohn, Ira David (320)............ 6-28-24
Yost, William Earl (810).......... 6-20-22
Young, Adrian W. (113).......... 12-1-23
Young, Marshall (111)...........
6-7-24
Youngquist, Paul H. (339) ........ 7-21-21
Zanetti, Andrew D. (212)......... 6-12-24
Zebal, Ernest H. (156)............ 8-13-23
Zemansky, Abe (415) ............ 1-26-16
Zenone, Chester (345). . . . . . . . . . . .
l-4-24
Ziemer, William E. (450)......... 3-14-24
Zimmerman, Hans (582) .......... 7-15-24
Zimmerman, Herbert (394)........ 6-28-19
Zumwalt, George R. (240) . . . . . . . . 6-13-24
Zurilgen, Gilbert (126)........... 6-24-24

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:
The Grand Lecturer is required at each Annual Communication, to render to
the Grand Lodge, a full and detailed account of his services during the year, and to
set forth therein a report of the condition of the Lodges throughout the Jurisdiction.
I shall very shortly comply with that requirement. Before commencing this report,
however, I beg-your indulgence for one moment, a moment in which to honor the
memory of a former member of this Ritual Committee- Worshipful Wallace H.
Fiske, Assistant Grand Lecturer of Division Four who, in March of this year was
transported upon silent wings to the Celestial Lodge, there to dwell with the other
truly great and good men of Masonry who rest now in Paradise.
It would be impossible to express in.mere words the great admiration and esteem in which Wally was held by all members of this Committee ... He was
gentle; he was friendly; he was true. His quiet and unassuming manner oft times
belied his perfect mastery of the Ritual, and he was loved and respected by all with
whom he came into contact. We take this quiet moment to say farewell to our
Brother - Masonry's benefactor - Wallace H. Fiske, Assistant Grand Lecturer ... To his memory is most lovingly dedicated this report.
Because of the great number of Lodges which are Chartered under the Grand
Lodge of California, it would be impossible for the Grand Lecturer to visit them all
each year. This report, therefore, will be based upon information contained in the
Inspectors Annual report forms, letters and comments from Lodge Officers and
members, and personal observations of the Grand Lecturer after thoughtful consideration of all the above. In a continuing effort toward total uniformity of
California Ritual, many hours, days and weeks have been expended by the Committee on Ritual, the Inspectors, Officers Coaches and Lodge Officers throughout

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the entire Jurisdiction this year. The mainstays of our chain of Ritual instruction
are the Inspectors Annual Spring Conferences. These meetings are held in the
Spring months of each year in each of the Six Divisions . It is at these week-end
long meetings that the Inspectors exemplify all the Ritual of the three degrees in the
presence of the Ritual Committee and the Elective Grand Lodge Officers. This
year, those meetings were held at the locations and the times as follows:

INSPECTORAL CORPS

88

Division One at Santa Rosa, April 19-21, conducted by Wor. Burton Young,
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division One.
Division Two at Sacramento, June 21-23, conducted by Wor. Edward Seagle,
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division Two.
Division Three at Los Gatos, March 22-24, conducted by Wor. Ulysses Patropulos, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division Three.
Division Four at Fresno, May 31-June 2, conducted by Wor. Vernon Gordon,
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division Four.
Division Five at Los Angeles, May 17-19, conducted by Wor. George Perkins,
Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division Five.
Division Six at Long Beach, February 22-24, conducted by Wor. Ernest M. Newton, Assistant Grand Lecturer, Division Six.
It is interesting to note that at each of these conferences, all phases of the Ritual were exemplified and discussed within the period commencing Friday evening
and concluding on Sunday morning. This accomplishment is but one further
indication of the studied determination of the Inspectors to maintain high levels of
Ritual proficiency within their individual areas of responsibility.
It was the good fortune of the Inspectors at each of these conferences to hear
comments of the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master and the Grand Secretary. All of these Grand Officers brought messages of great interest to the
Inspectors, and their remarks were always gratefully received.
I have this year attended schools in most of the Divisions, and I have observed
hand the efficient manner in which the Ritual is being communicated to the
first
at
Inspectors by our wonderful Assistant Grand Lecturers. It is a real pleasure to observe these experts in Masonic Ritual at work with their charges ... They are
each, truly skilled workmen of the very highest order, and it is through their efforts
that we are assured of continuing excellence of both Ritual and leadership.
On Friday, following the close of this Grand Lodge session, the Grand Lecturer's Annual School of instruction for the Inspectors will be held here in this
Auditorium.
In addition to all of the foregoing, regular schools of instruction have been
conducted in each of the Six divisions this year, and each of the 183 Inspectors
have held monthly schools within each District for the instruction of their individual Lodges and Brethren.

89

Were it not for the dedication of those 183 marvelous Masons who serve this
Grand Lodge as ~asonic Inspectors, the position of eminence which California
Masonry now enJoys would be only a dream. These seemingly tireless workers
devote en~~ess hours to group and individual instruction within their Districts.
They sacnf1ce untold numbers of evenings each year to present 50 year Veterans
Buttons on behalf of our Grand Lodge. They devote a goodly number of their
wee~ -ends to attendance of Cornerstone and other Grand Lodge Ceremonies, Recept~on~ for the Grand Mast~r, and other activities. They pursue various inves~1gat10ns reques~ed by foreign Grand Jurisdictions and a myriad of other Masomcly related dut1~s. To the Masters of Lodges under their jurisdiction, they
17present the .authonty of. Grand L?dge in the absence of the Grand Master. They
rud, the1 advise, they assist - all m a supportive fashion - never in a dictatorial
nor arbitrary ma?ne~. They are Masons for whom I personally have the highest
respect and admrrat10n.
The rate of tu~ov~~ in the Inspectoral Corps continues at about twenty percent per year. C?ne s1gmf1cant factor in the appointment of new Inspectors over the
past ~o years Is the age of those being recommended. The average age of recent
aPp<>mtees to the Co~s has been approximately 42 years. These younger men
?nng youthful e?thusiasm to the Corps, the results of which are being evidenced in
mcreased plannmg and activity. It is my very great pleasure to welcome to the
lnspectoral C?rps, those new Inspectors who have been appointed in the past year,
and to very ~m~erel~ thank those recently retired Inspectors who have given so
freely of therr time m the service of California Masonry.
LODGE ACTIVITIES

For the second consecutive year, contributions to the California Masonic
Homes Endowment Fu:°d h~ve exceeded the one million dollar mark; just one
more assurance that California Ma~on.ry is truly full filling its magnificent destiny.
. Repor:rs from the In~pectors md1cate that practically all of the Lodges have
sabsf~cto.nly performed m the area of required Grand Lodge programs this year;
Constttut1on.~bserv~nce and Public Schools programs. Many Lodges have sponS<?red or ~art1~1pated ·~other Grand Lodge activities such as Cornerstone Ceremomes, ded1~~t1ons, anmversary celebrations and receptions. Reports also indicate
that a suffic1en~ ~u~ber of practice sessions are being held by the Lodges to assure
proper exemphf1cat1on of the Ritual.
Well, as the saying goes, we have some good news and we have some bad
news - you've heard the good, now I'll give you the bad.
In spite o~ s?me ?opeful signs, there are still serious problems in certain areas
ofLod~e adm!n!strat10n. A great number of the Lodges are still experiencing difficulty m obtammg new Officer material to fill the Stations each year and general
~ge atte~dance continues to lag. 50 Inspectors report that 200 of o~r Lodges are
std! ~ot fill mg t~e ne~s of their Community, and 59 Inspectors report their feeling
that m 235 Caltforn1a Lodges, Masonry is definitely not advancing. Now even

90

91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

though we are speaking of a small percentage of the total, it should never the less
be of deep concern to us all, the fact that even a small number of our Lodges are experiencing such difficulties. In examining these problem areas, I .am more thoroughly convinced that their solution can be found only in more informed leadership at all levels of Lodge administration. We feel that this area has been to~ long
neglected and toward its resolution, the Committee on Ritual has re-doubled its e!forts to complete a comprehensive leadership program for use of ~he Lo?ges m
training Officers in all areas of Lodge administration previous to their election and
installation as key Officers in their individual Lodges.
At the risk of sounding like a broken record, I would again urge the Lodges to
dispense with the practice of requiring 8 or 9 years for an Officer to reac~ ~he
Master's chair. This practice acts as a deterrent to many excellently quahf1ed
Brothers who simply cannot commit such an extended period of time to going
through the chairs. We recommend that the progressive line of the Lodge
commence no lower than the Junior Deacon's Station, and that all offices below
that be filled strictly on a one year appointive basis. Many Brothers will volunte~r
to fill an officer's station if they were assured that it was for one year only. This
practice could greatly ease the problem of finding new Officer material, b~t it c~
be initiated only by the Lodges themselves. Again, we urge all Lodges to give senous consideration to such a change.
We must also re-emphasize the urgent need for more comprehensive programs of Masonic Education in the Lodges. It is in this area that we feel Masonry is
not fulfilling its obligation to the Candidate: Oh yes, we give him the three degrees
all right, but very little else: We are operating on the theory that Ritual alone makes
Masons. Well let me tell you, Brethren, nothing could be farther from the truth,
and the sooner we start educating our Candidates as well as raising them, then I
think we'll see Masonry begin to prosper.

Iii Honolulu we held an all day school for the Officers of all ten Hawaiian
J,.odges, Officers Coaches, Inspectors and all interested Masons of the area. The
Rinial of all three degrees was covered at this school and on the following day,
Sunday, another school was held for Candidates' Coaches. This school covered all
Candidates lectures. Both of these schools were excellently attended with Lodge
Officers flying in from all of the outer Islands to participate in, and study the Ritual. In Honolulu we were informed by Brother Alexander Bell of his intention to
retire from the lnspectorship of District 382. Our efforts fo find a qualified
replacement for Alex were unsuccessful. We therefore recommended to the Grand
Master that District 382 be temporarily dissolved. This recommendation was
implemented by the Grand Master. Kilauea Lodge was assigned to District 384 under Inspector Bill McKee, and Lodge Maui was assigned to District 385 under the
Inspectorship of Oswald Lau. This arrangement will continue until such time as a
fully qualified Past Master is available to serve as Inspector of District 382.
As regards the Inspectoral Corps in Hawaii, we received word in June that
Inspector John Pringle of District 385 could no longer continue his duties as
Inspector due to expanded work schedules.
On his visitation to Hawaii in July, the Grand Master conducted interviews,
selected and appointed Brother Oswald J.B. Lau to succeed Brother Pringle as
Inspector in District 385.
Masonry in Hawaii continues to prosper. This is not to say that the Hawaiian
Lodges are without problems, for in varying degrees, the same problems which
plague the Mainland Lodges are present in the Islands . Some of their problems,
both in Ritual and administration, were solved in our schools and discussions
while in the Islands. These visitations serve a very worthy purpose, for they give
our Hawaiian Brethren active assurance of the total and complete support of their
Brothers on the Mainland.
Mere word~ are insufficient to describe the depth of true Brotherly Love and
affection which is demonstrated in every Hawaiian Lodge, and by every member
thereof. Mark Twain described Hawaii as "the loveliest fleet of islands that lies
anchored in any ocean.'' This quotation is accurate but incomplete. To it should be
added "and manned by the most magnificent crew in God's Creation."
To those warm and wonderful Masons of Hawaii - Mahalo nui loa .

HAWAIIAN MASONRY

Immediately following the Division Three Conference in March this year, I
flew to Hawaii for the purpose of conducting Ritual schools, observing conditions
in the- Island Lodges, and searching out the solution to problems in certain areas of
Hawaiian Masonry.
On the Island of Hawaii I was met by Assistant Grand Lecturer, "Use" Patropulos and Officers of Kilauea Lodge. Schools and discussions were held in Hilo
before flying on to Maui, Kauai and Oahu.
On each Island, schools of instruction were held in the various degrees and
matters of Lodge administration were discussed.
On the Island of Kauai we were privileged to visit in, and inspect the new
Lodge room into which the Brethren of Kauai Lodge had moved in December,
1973. These new quarters are a definite improvement over their previous Lodge
hall. However, it was necessary for us to request that certain changes be made in
the Lodge room to provide for the proper reception of Candidates. The Master and
Brethren of Kauai Lodge were most cooperative in this matter and we are assured
that the prescribed changes have now been made.

1974-75 BUDGET
When our budget was submitted last year, we had no way of foretelling the
National financial crisis which has since rocked our Country's economy. Due to
some staggering increases in costs of food, lodging and travel, we have found it extremely difficult to hold the line on expenditures. We are proud to say however,
that due to restraint and good management on the part of the Inspectors and all
members of the Ritual Committee, we actually finished the year several dollars under our anticipated 1973-74 budget allowance.
We are constantly on the alert for new ways to trim costs without sacrificing
any of the services which this Committee renders, for instance, by moving the
Grand Lecturer's school to Friday following the Grand Lodge, the Inspectors do

92

PROCEEDING S OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

not have to spend an extra two days in San Francisco as they have done in the past
because the school convened on Saturday before the Grand Lodge opening. This
change figures to save the Grand Lodge nearly $3000.00, and whercv~r possibl~,
like changes shall be effected to maintain our expenses at the lowest. figure ~ss1ble . We have submitted a budget request this year for $51,000.00. This fig_ure is actually lower than that of last year. We feel certain that with the co~perat1on of all
the Inspectors and members of this Committee, we shall be ab_le to d1schar~e ~II t~e
duties and responsibilities with which we are charged, and still operate within this
budgetary figure.

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES OF THE
MASONIC HOMES

CONCLUSION

In concluding this report I wish to express my gratitude to all those who ~ave
been of service to this Committee in the past year. There are many- the vanous
Committees of Grand Lodge- the Inspectors of the Various Masonic Districtsthose six wonderful Masons who are the backbone of the Committee, the Assistant
Grand Lecturers, without whose support this Grand Lecturer could not function,
and I especially welcome the newest ofthem_t? our ass?Ciation_, Brother Vernon
Gordon AGL of Division Four from Tranqu1hty (the city that 1s, not a state of).
Gratefui appreciation is extended to the Grand Secretary and his wonderful staff
for their many courtesies. Without their help we could not have completed o~r a~­
signment. To all the 1974 Grand Lodge Officers who have beens? ~ooperat1ve m
performing the work of opening and closing Grand Lodge so effi_c1ently,_ ~e say
thank you my Brethren, and finally, to a man who~ we feel very h1g~y pnv1leged
to have served with in the past twelve months; a wise and understandmg man who
has at all times exemplified the highest standards of our Ancient institution: Our
Grand Master, a Grand leader, and a Grand Man ...
Thank you Most Worshipful, and thank you my Brethren all, for your
confidence and support.
Respectfully submitted,
H. Douglas Lemons, Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Distribution.

93

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:
The Trustees of Masonic Homes of California respectfully present their
Bighty-second Annual Report for the fiscal year June 30, 1974, with accompanying reports from the Administrators of the Home for the Aged at Union City
and of the Home for Children at Covina.
Masonic Homes of California is a charitable corporation, organized by Grand
[,odge under the laws of the State of California. Corporate powers are vested in the
Board of Trustees. As provided in the California Masonic Code, the Trustees are
twelve in number with the Deputy Grand Master, the Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens acting ex-officio, and nine members appointed by successive Grand
Masters.

ORGANIZATION

The Board of Trustees met in the California Masonic Memorial Temple, San
Francisco, immediately following the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge
on October 12, 1973, for the purpose of Organization. The election of Burton
Meyer, Jr., Deputy Grand Master, John F. Roberts, Jr., Senior Grand Warden,
and Kermit A. Jacobson, Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the
Board. On motion duly made, seconded and carried they were confirmed as
Members of the Board.
Most Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage, Grand Master, announced the
appointment of Jack H. Peloian, Charles Sedam and Myron E. Smith as Trustees,
each for three year terms. Their appointment was confirmed as Members of the
Board.
Due to the condition of his health Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson,
who has served Masonry faithfully for many years and who had one year
remaining of his three year term, requested that he be relieved of his responsibility
as a Trustee. His request was reluctantly accepted, and Grand Master Ebbage
appointed Horace W. Orear, Jr., Past Master of California Lodge No. I, to serve
the balance of the unexpired term.
Because of the Board's desire to continue calling on Past Grand Master L.
Harold "Pete" Anderson for advice and assistance, they requested him to accept
an appointment as "Consulting Engineer." Brother Anderson has continued to
give of his time and talent this past year.
During the year the Board also lost the valuable services of Brother Ralph M.
Brown who, because of business and personal reasons, tendered his resignation as
a Trustee. The Grand Master appointed Brother Raymond A. Howe, a Past Master
of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, to fill the vacancy.

95

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The composition of the Board and the expiration of their terms at the close of
the fiscal year were as follows:

N. Hollywood No. 542, was presented to members and friends then assembled.
The fihn which is titled ''Such Gifts to Give,'' through the professional expertise
of Brother Ingalls, tells the story of the love and heart of our Homes for the elderly
and for the children.
We are indebted to him for his contribution of skill and effort in translating
into a 20-minute film that feeling which has been so expertly captured.
Copies of the 16mrn sound film are in supply in the Grand Secretary's office
and with members of the Homes Endowment Board. They can be borrowed by
Lodges at their request.

94

1974 ............ Raymond A. Howe
Horace W. Orear, Jr.
John M. Faulkner
1975 ............ Ralph H. Head
Robert H. Mason
Donald B. McCaw
1976 ...... . ..... Jack H. Peloian
Charles Sedam
Myron E. Smith
The officers of the Board are as follows: Myron E. Smith, President, D?nald
B. McCaw, Vice President, Chester R. MacPhee, Treasurer, Edw~ H. S~ems,
Secretary, Robert D. Lintner, Assistant Treasurer, Verne W. Hendnx, Assistant
Secretary.
.
·
G d
The Treasurer and Secretary serve by virtue of their e1ection as ran
Treasurer and Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge.
The Board of Trustees has continued the practice of holding n:ionthly mee~ings, alternating between North and South. At least one meetin~ dunng th~ year is
scheduled at each of the Homes, supplemented by many committee meetmgs and
meetings with our Homes Administrators.
POOLED INCOME

Masonic Homes of California is in the process of establishi~g a ne:-v ?1e~ium
whereby donors may transfer property to the Masonic Homes dunng their hf~ti'!les
and retain an income interest for themselves or for one or more other benefi.c1ru:ies.
Under recent amendments to the federal income tax laws, ch~table organ~auons
such as Masonic Homes of California are permitted to establish a pooled mcome
trust fund. A pooled income trust is one in w~ich the dono! transfers property to the
Masonic Homes while retaining an income mterest for hnnself or fo~ one or more
beneficiaries. For investment purposes the trust a~sets are p~aced m a co~on
pool with the assets of other life income trust~. ~e mcome paid to the beneficiary
is a proportionate part of that earned by the hfe mcome pooled assets·. Such trar,isfers of property provide donors wit~ c~mpet~nt management of their ~roix:rt1es
during their lifetimes as well as certam 1mmed1ate tax benefit~. F~ll details will .be
furnished all Lodges as soon as the Declaration of Trust establ~shing the pooled mcome trust has been qualified by the Internal Revenue Service.
FILM, "SUCH GIFTS TO GIVE."

For the first time, at the Annual Communication in 1973 a new motion picture
fihn which had been produced under the direction of Past Master Donald Ingalls,

REDEVELOPMENT AND REHABILITATION AT DECOTO

The Board of Trustees reported to Grand Lodge at the 1973 Communication
that, after careful study and evaluation of geological and seismic opinions and after
making long term projections of care and fmancial requirements,a Master Plan for
the redevelopment of the site was prepared in conjunction with the architects employed for the purpose.
As each of us is aware in reviewing ourown personal finances, this last year in
particular has seen the inflation of labor and material costs in tremendous
proportions. The months of January and February, 1974 alone, when extended to
an annual basis, reflect an increase in the cost of construction of twenty-five
percent. Moreover, the enactment of legislation affecting our proposed facility
added as much as five dollars per square foot to our projected building costs.
Your Trustees are charged with the responsibility of providing the finest available care for our residents within the means of the craft; and, simply stated, the
proposed Master Plan could not, as a result of these inflationary and legislative
influences, be carried into fruition within those means. The Redevelopment Committee returned again and again to the ''drawing board'' in an effort to provide a
desirable new development at Decoto and concluded in its recommendation,
adopted by the Board of Trustees, that a more modest program is required.
Several alternatives are available and are under continuing study. In the interim, since maintenance of substance has been deferred during the planning stages,
major steps have been taken to make needed repairs to, and renewal of, both the
physical home and the equipment. Plumbing and wiring are being renewed,
draperies and carpets are being installed and, generally, we are moving ahead as
rapidly as possible to provide an even more safe and comfortable Home in which
our guests may reside during their retirement years.
DECOTO OPERATIONS

Our residents at Decoto continue to enjoy the many activities and special
events at the Home as well as trips to surrounding areas, including ball games, the
theater, the Ice Follies, and other places of interest. We have at this time 375 guests
of whom 158 are in the nursing unit (Wollenberg Hall), 67 are considered semillllbulatory and 150 are ambulatory.

96

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Master Ebbage was present on the occasion of the 108th anniversary of
the birth of Mrs. Theresa Locke, our oldest resident and shared the happiness of
that remarkable event.
The new dining and kitchen facilities have been extremely well received, and
we again commend our now retired Administrator, Worshipful Hugh B. Herring,
for his untiring efforts in providing comfort and enjoyment for the Home guests.

devoted and dedicated service was spent in Operations, Real Estate, Insurance and
other special committees, all in the interest of the guests' welfare at our two
Homes .
The Trustees are gratified by the continued support of our Homes by all of the
Masons of California and Hawaii as evidenced by their generous verbal
approbations and financial contributions. The awareness by all members that our
Homes activities are an important practical way in which Masonic charity can be
made effective makes the work of your Trustees lighter and results most satisfying.
To the dedicated Administrators, the Staff at the Homes, and the Grand Lodge
office Staff, we extend our sincere appreciation for their willingness to go beyond
the call of duty. This dedication makes our two Homes a place where your guests
can live with real pride.
We announce, however, that although the Annual report by the Administrator
for the Masonic Home, Union City, which is submitted as a part of our report, has
been prepared by him, Hugh B. Herring, Administrator of our Home for the
elderly at Union City, after 12 years of devoted service submitted his resignation
from that responsibility for personal reasons effective September 22nd.
The Homes' Trustees accepted his resignation with expressions of
appreciation on behalf of the Board, the Fraternity, and the Residents of our Home
for his care and attention to the health and comfort of the guests.
To help maintain the continued care and comfort of the residents, J. Burton
Brown, Assistant Administrator of our Home for children at Covina, has been
appointed Interim Administrator at Union City until a replacement for Brother
Herring can be employed. In addition, former Administrator Brother Gail David
who at the time of his retirement had previously offered his services if ever needed,
is present as a volunteer during the period of transition on a consulting basis. Thus
the Home's opaations will continue smoothly and without interruption.
The Trustees are appreciative also of the dedication of the faithful employees
at both Homes and of their continuing desire to make each of them, not only a
comfortable place in which to live, but one in which the warmth oflove can be felt.
With the constancy of every member's support we will continue toward that end.

OUTSIDE REUEF
During recent years, we have seen a constant increase in the number of nonambulatory guests at Decoto and, to a lesser extent, an increase in ambulatory
guests as well. The non-ambulatory occupancy has now reached ~level wh~re it
will no longer be advisable to admit residents directly into those umts. W~.wish !O
emphasize, however, that those who are admitted in an ambulatory co?dition will
continue to receive all required care whether it be nursing home, hospital , or otherwise, as long as they are guests at the Home. Because of the high level of nonambulatory occupancy, therefore, it will be the policy of the Board of Trustees for
the foreseeable future, that no application for admission of one in a nonambulatory condition will be approved, except in the most extraordinary
circumstances.
Our non-ambulatory brethren, wives or widows are, of course, not abandoned
in a time of great need and it is the purpose of the Outside Relief program to provide this assistance. After all available assistance from family members who may
be legally required to contribute to support has been exhausted, and to the extent
other, private or public assistance is not available , monetary aid will be furn.ished
by the Masonic Homes usually in an amount not to excee~ t~e cost of c~e .m the
Home. It is anticipated that because of the policy of restnctmg the admission of
non-ambulatory residents, applications for Outside Relief will increase, and the
Homes office is prepared to assist the lodges as required in advising as to availability of other private and public sources, and in making application for assistance
by the Masonic Homes.
. .
Upon the recommendation of the Board of Trustees to equate th~~ receiv~g
the assistance of the brethren while living in the Home to those receiving Outside
Relief, the Grand Master directed the preparation of the nec~ssary documents
requiring recipients of Outside Relief to repay all amounts received to the extent
reasonably possible during life, and, in any event, upon death to the extent of all
assets in their estates:
It should be remembered that Outside Relief is intended only for long term
chronic needs and that temporary relief for specific purposes is to be cared for by
the individual lodges.

97

Respectfully submitted,
MYRON E. SMITH, President
DoNALD B . MCCAW, Vice-President
JOHN M. FAULKNER
RALPH H. HEAD
RAYMOND A. HOWE
KERMIT A. JACOBSON

ROBERT H. MASON
BURTON MEYER , JR.
HORACE W. OREAR, JR .
JACK PELOIAN
JOHN F. ROBERTS, JR.
CHARLES SEDAM

IN SUMMARY
The Redevelopment Program at Covina is now concluded. Your Board, and
the Redevelopment and Rehabilitation Committee for Union City, has spent countless hours in meetings with respect to that project. A special review of that Committee's activity has been made a part of this report. In addition many hours of

Vice-President McCaw called on Board member, Ralph Head, who indicated
to the Brethren that after twenty years of service as a member of the Board of
Trustees of the Masonic Homes Past Grand Master Myron E. Smith was retiring
from the Presidency of the Board.

98

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Board members presented to President Smith a letter expressing the
appreciation of the Board and the entire Masonic membership for his unselfish
and devoted service to the Masonic Homes.
Past Grand Master Smith responded humbly and thanked the Brethren for
their many courtesies over the years . In answer his response was received by a
standing ovation.
Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget Allocation).

seventy-one and seventy years; of the children, ten are boys and six girls, and the
average ag_e of each se~ is eleven years. There are at present employed at the
Ho!11e, besides.the Supenntendent and Matron, eight persons, viz.: a cook, with an
assistant for kitch~n w~rk: a young woman for the scullery and dining-room,
another for the mam buddmg; a man who takes care of the cattle and chickens
horses and vehicles;~ attendant for the children; a gardener; and a night-watch~
man. The cost of each mmate has been $12. 50 per month, this includes salaries and
all expenses except permanent improvements - and to co-operate with the Board
of Trustees in their ambition so to conduct the Home that those who come here to
spend their few re!11aining years on earth may find those years the sweetest of their
hv~s, the most qmet and happy, the freest from anxiety, the fullest of contentment

REPORT OF ADMINISTRATOR
MASONIC HOME, UNION CITY
As Administrator of the Masonic Home at Union City, I respectfully submit
my fourth annual Administrator's report for the fiscal year ending June 30th, 1974 .
On June 30th, 1974, we had a population of 378 residents:
Age Groups

59 years
60 to 69 years
70 to 79 years
80 to 89 years
90 to 99 years
100 years
108 years

Men

Women

6
24
86
36

9

1

1

153

51
127
35
1
1
225

Total 378

The average age of our men is 84.59 years. The average age of our women is
83 . 10 years . The overall average age of our entire population is 83 .84 years . Our
senior resident is Mrs. Teresa Locke who will be 109 years on November 30th
1974. We have 24 couples who are residents in the Home and the Nursing Unit.
Our Nursing Unit has a capacity of 167 patients and we have averaged a daily
census of 157.4. The average daily census of semi-ambulatory residents was 72.69
therefore 61 % of our population was under nursing care. During the fiscal year,
July 1, 1973 through June 30th, 1974, our nursing patient days were 59,452; Dr.
Carson and Dr. Liston treated 3,804 patients; 1, 755 were seen by specialists at
Palo Alto Clinic; our Podiatrist treated 3,355 residents; 593 patients were admitted; 621 discharged; 64 were admitted to Stanford Hospital; and we lost 58 by
death .
The Masonic Home register was signed by 3,618 visitors, representing 382
Lodges in California and Hawaii; 26 states and 4 foreign countries.
This being the 75th anniversary of our Masonic Home at Decoto, it is only fitting that I quote from the Superintendent's report of 1899.
''The Home was opened for the reception of those for whose maintenance it
was established, on the first day of March 1899: thirty-seven of whom have
already accepted its privileges - twenty adults and seventeen children. Of the
fonner, sixteen are men and five are women; and their average ages respectively,

99

I!.is by your gen~rosity and efforts, my Brethren, that "Masons care for their
own, 4, 135 deservmg Brethren and their wives or widows golden years have
been a litt~e more cort?fortable and happy . You have met every challenge - from
the 37 resident:> the first year, to the present population of 378; from $12.50 per
month per capita cost to today 's $500.
To the various Lodges, Eastern Star Chapters and affiliate Masonic Bodies
and to each individual who has donated clothing and other useful articles for the
benefit and enjoyment to our residents, our Fraternal thanks. For the 62nd
conse~u~ve year (i_n August 1974) we are indebted to the East Bay Past Matrons
Association for therr annual'' Jam and Jelly Day'' which provides us with jams and
jellies or monies to purchase same, for the year.
Also a s~cial thanks to Mrs. Paula G~der.of Au~uf!l, who has donated many
hu~dreds ofpmts and quarts of canned fnuts, Jams, Jelhes, sauces, pickles, etc.,
which she personally puts up in her kitchen.
My fraternll) thanks to our Grand Master, Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Ho!11e and our G~and Secretary for their dedication and hours upon hours of labors ,
therr understandmg and concern for our residents which make our Masonic Home
the "Castle on the Hill" as it is so often referred to by our residents.
Respectfully submitted,
HUGH B. HERRING, Administrator

100

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF ADMINISTRATOR -

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

COVINA HOME

It is with pleasure that the Annual Report of the Masonic Home for Children
for the year 1973-1974 is submitted.
At year's end, our population consisted of 50 children - 19 girls, and 31
boys. During June, however, we had four graduate from High School, one girl,
and three boys. Another senior graduated mid-term. During the year we had six
children reunited with their families.
Of our graduating class of 1974, it is with pride and pleasure that we make the
following report:
Miss Pam Torrance, San Marino Lodge #685, plans to attend Mt. San Antonio
college, and to major in Sociology.
Craig Hunter, Evergreen Lodge #259, plans to attend Rio Hondo College to
study Art.
Marc Simkins, Highland Lodge #748, will be attending San Bernardino Valley
College, majoring in Automotive Mechanics.
Doug Knauer, Ashlar Lodge# 306, will attend Claremont Men's College, majoring in Psychology .
Our mid-term graduate, Robert Johnson, Sotoyome Lodge# 123, is working,
and is considering enrolling in college in September.
We wish our graduates the best of success as they continue in their academic
endeavors.
The following alumni are also attending college with funds made possible by
the Board of Trustees:

l . Sylvia Cabana
Fontana #653
2. Harold Coates
Los Banos #312
3. Robin Gockley
St. Elmo #697
4. Stuart Kausrud
Burbank #406
5. Larry Knauer
Ashlar # 306
6. Charles Kilpatrick Ramona #457
7. Paul Kilpatrick
Ramona #457
8. Kurt Bloedel
Mt. Olive #506
9. Walter Perkins
Sojourner #607
10. Linda Ritchie
Eucalyptus #243
11. Carolyn Smith
Graduated May, 1974
12. Mitchell Strauss
Los Cerritos #674
13. Debbie Torrance
San Marino #685
Graduated La Verne College, May, 1974
14. Alan Petzold
Warwick, N.Y.
Funds supplied by Grand Lodge of N'Y.
15. Ben Utz

Mt. San Antonio
Citrus College
U.C. Humboldt
Whittier College
Whittier College
U.C.L.A. Law School
U.S. C.
La Verne College
Citrus College
U.C.L.A.
U . of Arizona
La Verne College
Planning
Graduate School
Golden West College
Heavy Duty Truck Driving
School

IOI

The following children have been reunited with their families during the past
year:
Tom and James Long, Paramount Lodge #785
Tim and Jon Haines, Granada Lodge #608
Doug Watts, Montebello Lodge #451
Doug Holley, Yucaipa #726
We have also had the pleasure of welcoming the following children into our
Masonic Home Family:
Patty Fisher .. ......... .. age 14 Alexander Hamilton Lodge #535
Amber Warren ......... . age 10 Highland Park Lodge #382
Justin Stovall ...... .. .... age
6 Blue Lakes Lodge #714
Douglas Gannaway .. . ... . age 15 Blue Lakes Lodge #714
With the completion of our building program, our present capacity is such that
we can accommodate more children if the need arises and requests are received.
An outstanding Cornerstone and Dedication Ceremony was held August 18,
1973. Although it proved to be the hottest day of the year, we were privileged to
have most of our Grand Lodge Officers in attendance, as well as an estimated
2,000 brethren and wives, friends, and other civic dignitaries. The cornerstone
was made up of rocks indigenous to the areas in which our California Lodges are
located. The cornerstone elicited many favorable comments from the brethren at
the Ceremony, and others who have since visited us.
April, 1974, saw three young ladies of our Masonic Home Family join Rainbow Girls at Grand Assembly in Anaheim. The delegate initiate was our Laurie
Torrance, San Marino Lodge #685. Cindy Richardson, Fresno Lodge #247, and
Susie Pedretti (sojourner) from Illinois, were the other two young ladies accepted
into this Youth Group. Rainbow remembers our children with monthly gifts of
Rainbow Love. •
Richard Hudgins, James H. Kew Lodge #766, Paul Lineberg, Covina Lodge
#344, Richard Miller, Altadena Lodge #678- joined the local George Washington
Chapter Order of DeMolay. We share a meeting room with Citrus League Order of
DeMolay every other week.
Job's Daughters of California have adopted "children in Covina" and
remember them with birthday cards, notes, letters, and gifts. Covina has been designated to receive their major gift this year.
On April 27, 1974, we had the Masonic Home Alumni Reunion, numbering
250 alumni, spouses, and families. A good time was had by all, and many hours
were spent reminiscing and identifying snapshots and pictures which were placed
in the Covina Home's "Hall of Memories ."
Covina children had the pleasure of hosting Worthy Grand Matron Zoe
Harris, and Worthy Grand Patron, James Craven, and selected Grand Officers,
Order of Eastern Star, for dinner, May 8, 1974.
. Our Masonic Home Family has enjoyed relatively good health this past year
with the exception of our cases of chicken-pox, an occasional skinned knee, and
minor cuts and bruises. We are fortunate to have Magan Clinic available to meet
our medical needs. Its founder, Dr. W.P. Magan, started taking care of our children in the early l920's. Dr. Magan passed away this year.

102

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Many contributions have been received from our brethren and other members
of our Masonic concordant bodies. We express our sincere appreciation for this
support and continued interest in the children under our care. We are grateful to the
brethren of California and Hawaii for their love, interest, and concern in our children. Our children are appreciative and thank you for your support. We are all
grateful to the Board of Trustees for the many hours they spend in working on
behalf of our Masonic Home Family.
We again extend invitations to our brethren and wives and families to visit us
when time permits. Our children and staff deem it a pleasure to host you and take
you on a tour of our lovely and beautiful cottages and grounds.

ANNUAL REPORT OF THE
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

Respectfully submitted,
JAMES C. BLAINE, Administrator

103

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:

Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board hereby submits its 42nd Annual Repart covering the fiscal year ending June 30, 1974.
INCOME FROM THE ENDOWMENT FuND

The Permanent Endowment Fund earned $1,536,853.10 this past year, which
amount has been transferred to the operating accounts of our two Masonic Homes.
Each year we realize how important this Endowment Fund is to the operation of
our Homes, without them an additional amount of $6. 97 from each member would
have been necessary.
BEQUESTS, GIFTS AND MEMORIALS

Bequests in the amount of $353,774.97 were received into the Endowment
Fund this past year. In addition, $1,332,486.84 was received by the Homes in
bequests from estates where the Endowment Fund was not specifically mentioned
in the will. Organizations and individuals made gifts in the amount of $5,553.81,
and memorials added $29 ,413 .16 to our funds. This makes a total of $1, 721,228. 78
received from bequests, individuals, organizations and memorials. It is important
to our Homes that we realize the value of bequests and wills, for it is the source of
substantial income.
INDIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS
THROUGH LODGES

Each year •it has been possible to report increased contributions through
Lodges, and we are happy to be able to report that this year is no exception. Individual contributions through Lodges amounted to $1,039,246.43, another all time
high. The average amount per contributing member is $9. 53 as compared to $9 .08
last year. The percentage of participants was 49.50% and is a tribute to those
members who participated. We find, however, that we have yet to reach the other
so called 50% of our members who do not take the opportunity of contributing to
this most worthy cause.
LoDGES WITH LARGEST DOLLAR CONTRIBUTIONS

No.

Lodge

A mount

42 Los Angeles ............. $18,095.44
623 Menorah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,071.47
450 Van Nuys............... 7,261.16
327 Long Beach............. 6,227.20
542 North Hollywood . . . . . . . . . 6,078.56
520 Ionic. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,259.00
348 San Bernardino.......... 5,233.72
483 Bell.................... 5,004.13
594 Service. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,856.47
596 Guardian............... 4,809.50

No.

Lodge

Amount

389 Palos Verdes. . . . . . . . . . . . $4,620.11
447 Torrance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,609.50
655 Monte Vista. . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,472.43
406 Burbank.... . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,449.06
322 Alhambra............... 4,447.94
3 Tehama................ 4,437.50
335 West Gate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,432.50
544 Glendale................ 4,346.08
529 Loyalty................. 4,281.00

104

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LODGES WITH LARGEST AVERAGE GIFTS
A verage
Lodge
No.
No .
Gift
Lodge
826 Palm Desert . .. .. ...... . .
778 La Mirada . .. .. . .. .. ... . .
$26.47
378 Mizpah ......... .... . .. .
800 Rio Hondo ...... . ...... .
22.47
727 Verdugo Hills . .. . . ..... .
781 Rolling Hills ... . . . . . .. . . .
22.42
779 Five Points .. . . .. .. .. . . . .
42 Los Angeles . .. . ..... .. . .
15.66
786 Rio Linda . ........ . . . . . .
825 Gemini . . .. ....... .. ... .
14.17
780 Riviera . ... .. .. . .. ... .. .
595 Alexander Graham Bell .. . .
12.95
468 Rockridge ......... ... . . .
828 Tustin ......... .... . ... .
12.82
202 Pentalpha . ... . .. .. ..... .
599 Carmelita . . . . . .. . .. . ... .
12.77
444 Carpinteria . . ....... . ... .
481 Mt. Davidson ......... .. .
11.96
278 Southern California . .. . .. .
322 Alhambra . . . .. . .. .. .... .
11 .59
643 Alta Loma . .. . ... . . . . . . .
765 Dana R. Weller ......... .
11.09
814 Plaza De Los Angeles .... .
813 Old West .... . . . . . . . . .. .
10.91
662 Henry Knox . . . . . ... .. .. .
307 Santa Monica .. .. . .. ... . .
10.74
327 Long Beach ......... ... .
329 Vallee De France ..... . .. .
10.51
543 Signal .. . . . . . . ... . .. ... .
548 Triangle . . ... . . ... . .. .. .
10.25
805 Camellia . . . . . .... .. ... . .
10.25

Average
Gift
$10.16
10.12
9.65
9.46
9.09
8.96
8.87
8.80
8.79
8.63
8.61
8.61
8.58
8.55
8.55

PERCENTAGE OF DoNORS OF ENTIRE MEMBERSHIP
1969 THROUGH 1974

Year
1974
1973
1972
1971
1970
1969

No .
826
826
1
1
378
800
800
1
603
797

Lodge
Average Gift
Palm Desert . .. .. ... . .. .. .. . ... . .. .. ... . .. . ... .. .. .. .. . .. $26.47
Palm Desert ...... . ... . ... . . . .. .. ... . ..... . ..... . .. . · .. ·· 26 .34
California .. ...... .. . .. . ... .. .. ... . . . .. . . . . ... . ... ... . .. . 34.32
California . . . ... . ... .. . ...... ... .. . .. . ... . .. ... . .. . ·· .. · · 32.93
Mizpah ..... .. .. .. .... . . . .. . . . ....... . .. . .... . . . .. · · .. · · 23 .96
Rio Hondo . .. . .. .. .. .. . ....... .. .. .. . .. ...... .. .. . .. .. .. 19.23
Rio Hondo ...... . . . ........ . ..... . ......... ........ . . . .. 18.03
California .. .. .. . .. .. ... . .. .. .. . ... .. .. . ... . .. .. .. .. ..... 29.37
Dimond ... .. . ...... .. ... ... . .. . . ... . ... . ... . ......... . · 42 .33
Tila Pass . . . . .. ..... ...... ... .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. . .. . ... ... . ·· 12.85
The average donation from the entire member ship increase d from
$4.52 to

$4.72.

Year
1974
1973
1972
1971
1970
1969
1968
1967
1966
1965

COMPARISON OF CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LoDGES
1965 THROUGH 1974
Lodges' Yearly
Participating
A verage
Contributions
Members
Gift
$1,039,246.43
109,074
$9.53
1,010,382 .92
111 ,250
9.08
959,157.90
111,479 ·
8.60
936,637.66
112,019
8.36
919,392.16
8.12
113,260
886,120.14
111,745
7.93
863 ,339.82
114,063
7.57
855,116.02
116,409
7.35
904,437.59
125,272
7.22
846,895.50
123,854
6.84

Percentage Contributing
49 .50%
49.72%
49.06%
48.58%
48.43%
47.17%

We extend our special thanks and apprecia tion to the Grand Lecturer
s and
Inspecto rs for their enthusia stic support of the Endowm ent Program
. Their help is
most valuable .

HONOR DISTRICTS AND THEIR INSPECTORS
The followin g districts averaged $6.00 or more per member .

District
166
338
340
378
508
524
526
528
532
534
538
540
546
548

554

Total
Membership
220,337
223 ,777
227 ,214
230,583
233,855
236,870
239,745
241,834
243,572
244,914

Total Membership
220,337
223 ,777
227,214
230,583
233,855
236,870

RECOGN mON OF INSPECTORAL CORPS

LoDGES WITH THE LARGEST AVERAGE AMOUNT PER MEMBER

Year
1974
1973
1972
1971
1970
1969
1968
1967
1966
1965

105

Inspector
Elmer E. Ross
George P. Leung
Bernard F. Cohn
Michael Schied)
Ray H. Paine
Robert Thos. Woodburn
Harold M. Hand
Merlyn R. Ingalls
Roy Jackson Henville
Samuel E. Harris
Jack L. Craven
William R. Worobe
Jacques C. Bourguignon
Robert Bruce Montgomery
Sam L. Quint

District
Inspector
*556
Robert L. Lawson
562
Carl C. Lau
572
John B. Patterson
574
Olin M. Heikkala
592
Karl Bernard Krug, Jr.
594
Louis 0 . Mason
607
Rodney D. Pillow
620
Walter B. Marshall
622
Gene C. Gregory
626
Grant W. John
678
William Bottorff
680
James Albert Boyle
686
Les R. Muller
688
Robert E. Crist
*Special recognition, over $10.00.

The followin g districts averaged $5.00 to $5.99 per member .

District
114
150
216
342
512
516
518
520
530
542

Inspector
Roy W. Troutman , Jr.
Donald E. Weisse
Floyd L. Baker
Edward G. Freeman
Jerry John Ritch
William W. Dickson, Jr.
Jack R. Vickers
Donald Maltby
T. Wm. Heidner
Frank L. Sutliff

District
Inspector
552
Richard C. Read
564
Charles K. Schertle
570
Leonard K. Herendeen
576
Maurice Jay Norton
582
John A. Turnbull
590
Paul Wm. Smith
605
Kenneth Dowell
608
Raymond R. Frazier
612
Alvin H. Schmitz
614
Bums H. Hamlett

District

616
624
625
630

GRA~D LODGE OF CALIFOR,'-;IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

106

District

Inspector

Stanley L. Channnn
Rodney H. Davis
Monon B. Glick
Leroy G. Connelly

634
637
694
696

The following districts averaged $4.00 to $4. 99 per member.
District
100

107
108
120
146
152
161
162
168
169
212
215
217
218
219
220
224
306
321
322
324
330
332
337
344
364

District

Inspector

Kenneth E. Himmler
Leland H. Doda
Henry P. Adams
Edwin R. Brooks
Niles 0. Millar
Willard H. Nutting, Jr.
Roben L. Spinney
Harold A. Miller
Walter W. Beck
C. Victor McCaul
Herben N. T. Bowden. Jr.
Roy V. Anderson
Raymond Allen Young
Parise Vouduuris
Louis A. Lasell. Sr.
Hershel C. Brown
Lowell Ellis Daniels
John D. Wilkins
George L. Carter
Edward C. Lohmeyer
Wm. Melvin Lustcnberger
Roben A. Klinger
Richard A. Krug
Louis D. Rusconi
Roben M. Montgomery
George Wm. Brown

365
368
370
372
374
376
384

385
437
504
510
536
544
558
560
566

568
601
602
610
621
628
629
640

646

PRINTED MATERIALS FOR DtSTRJBUTIO~

Inspector

R. Dean Wolf
William C. Leach
Robert C. Eulberg
Seiko Nakamatsu

Inspector

Alben Fred Koula
J. William Carl
Leo B. Mark
Roy Franklin Ward
William H. Reed
Jean L. Iribarren
William K. McKee
John Douglas Pringle
John Reddick
James E. Bacon
E. Ray Brown
Stephen J. Collins
Samuel Rosen
Thomas R. Waite
Richard B. Carter
James E. Sloan
George E. Harrison
Lavergne A. Gallagher
Floyd P. Weatherford
Wallace E. Lewis
James J. Nash
Phil Campbell
James C. Seibert
Leon McClure
Elwood E. Adams

RECOGJ\'ITION To LODGE SECRETARIES
We extend our special thank s to the Lodge Secretaries. It is through their efforts that our literature is mailed to the members, bringing our message to each
member of this Jurisdiction. They play a vital role in the success of our program
each year.
RECOGNITION FOR SPECIAL GIFTS
Each year we have Brethren who have given the Endowment Fund substantial
gifts to support the Homes, and we give them our sincere thanks. We would like to
encourage our members to consider this method of expressing their devotion to the
support of our Homes.

107

We believe every Brother is interested in knowing about the activities of our
Homes and the wonderful work Masonry is doing for our elderly at Decato and
children at Covina. We try to bring this information through the informative and
attractive I iterature that is available. This past year l ,356,000 pieces of literature
were distributed to our members and we feel this should encourage many of our
members to support this program. This material is on display in the exhibit area,
and we urge orders be placed at this Communication which will enable delivery to
be made within a few weeks.

SPECIAL CONSIDERAT!ONS
There is a great need for large sums to be used for the rehabilitation program at
Decato, and we urge our Brethren to give this their earnest consideration.
SERVICE ROLL CERTIFICATES
The new Service Roll Certificates which were distributed at the last Communication were well received and found to be real attractive. The tabs for those who
made the 1974 Service Roll will be sent to the Lodges for placement on the Certificates. The average contribution of three dollars per member is required for this
certificate.
MASONIC LODGE SER VICE ROLL
($3.00 or more per member)
The following Lodges have attained Service Roll status by average member
contributions of $6.00 or more.
No.

LodRe

826 Palm Desen. ............
800 Rio Hondo .. . . . .. . .. . .. .
727 Verdugo Hills .......... .
42 Los Angeles .... ....... . .
825 Gemini.
.........
780 Riviera ... . .. . .. . ...... .
468 Rod::ridge . . . . . . .........
202 Pentalpha. .... . . . .. .. .. .
48! Mt. Davidson .... . . .. . . ..
278 Southern California ... . . . .
765 Dana R. Weller .. . ..... . .
813 Old West .. . ... . ........
307 Santa Monica .. .. . .......
327 Long Beach .............
548 Triangle ... .. . .... .. ....
805 Camellia ...... .. . . .. . .. .

Average
Gift

$26.47
22.47
22.42
15 66

14.17
12.95
12.82
12.77
11.96
11.59
11.09
10.91
10.74
I0.51

10.25
10.25

No.

Lodge

La Mira<.la.
Mizpah .......... . .... , .
Rolling Hills . .. . . . ... . ...
Five Points ..... . ... . . . ..
Rio Linda .. . . . ..... . .. . .
Alexander Graham Bell ....
Tustin .... . ... . . . . . .....
599 Carmelita . . .............
~ Carpinteria .. . .. . . . . .. . ..
322 Alhambra ... . .. . .... . ...
643 Alta Loma .. . . .. . . ..... .
814 Plaza De Los Angeles .....
662 Henry Knox ........... . .
329 Vallee De France .... . . .. ,
543 Signal .... ............
623 Menorah ... . ........ . . . .
778
378
781
779
786
595
828

Average
Gift

10. 16
I0. !2
9.65
9.46
9.09
8.96
8.87
8.80
8.79
8.63
8.61

8.61
8.58
8.55
8.55
8.47

PROCEEDlf'GS Of THE

108

APerage

No .

f .odge

1.n Oakwood . .. . . .. . . .. . . .
540
580
l! 16
776
513
699

Queen Beach ... .. . . ... . .
Santa Maria . . ........ . . .
William B. Ogden .... ... .
Ea\t Whittier .. .. . . ..... .
Cahuenga ... . .. . . . ..... .
Bixby Knoll' . ... . . .. . . . .
790 Granada Hilb . . . . . . . . . .. .
663 Oj ai .. .... . ........ . .. .
636 John ~=h all .. . .... .•...
44.'i Wilshire-Garfie ld . . ... . .. .
768 Zenith ....... .. . . ...... .
127 Hermann .. . .... . . . . . .. .
593 All States .... . • . ..... . ..
717 Wayfarer . . ... • . . , . . . . . .
290 East Gate . . . ... .. ...... .
783 ~ oj ave ... ............ . .
702 Ro..;emead ... ..... ...... .
467 Culver City - Fo,hay .... .
806 Simi Valley . ..... . . .... .
-183 Bell ......... ... . . ..... .
706 Hunters Point Sava! .. . . . . .
-164 Alta Vista- Mount Vernon .
-160 Mo unt Oso . .... : .... ... .
75!1 West Covina . . .. . .. . .... .
625 Angeles Me>a .. . . .. ..... .
192 Santa Ba.rbarn . .. . . . . ... .
753 Lawndale .. .. . ... .. . ... .
95 Henry Clay ... . . . .. . ... . .
542 Nonh Hollywood . . . . . ... .
394 University ... . ..... .... .
447 Torrance .... . . .. . .... .. .
191 Mann ....... .. . .. ... . . .
5R5 Manc hester . . . .. . .. . .
21 5 Oak Grove . .. . .. . . . . . . . .
376 Francis Drake .... . . . . . . . .
-192 Garvanza .......... . .. . .
-109 Honolulu .. ... . .. . . .... .
-152 San Pa;qual . ... . .. ..... .
631 Benevolence . . .... . . . . .. .
377 Artesia ....... . .... . ... .
362 Charity .... .. . . .. . . .... .
629 Fairview . .. .. .. ... . .. . . .
-122 Eagle Rock ... . . .. ...... .
32-1 Corona ..... ... . ... . . .. .
-128 San Dima> .... . . . .... . . .
729 Centen nial . .. . .. . . .. . .. .
565 West Adam' .. .... ...... .
045 A. F. E. Irwin ........ .. ..

Gift
8. 35
l\.32
8 .32

8. 2!!
8.22
8. 10
7.99

7 .89
7 .!!3
7 .67
7 .63
7 .62
7 .59
7 .57

7.57
7 .53

7.52
7 .42
7. 39
7 .37
7.36
7 .32

7.29
7 .28
7.28
7.27
7.26
7.09
7.07

7.07
7 .03
6 .99
6.98
6.98
6.97
6.90
6 .89
6 .86
6 83
6.81
6.79
6 .74
6 .73

6.72
6 .67
6.67
6 .67
6.66
6.65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
A1•eraxe

No.

Lodxc

819 Frank S . Land ........ .. .
273 Anchor .......... .. . , . . .
JR9 Palos Verdes ..... . ..... .
61-1 Larc hmont ... ......... . .
544 Glendale ...... .... ..... .
660 Baldwin Park ..... . . . ... .
69!! William D. Stephens . . .. . .
373 Wes t Lo, Angeles .. .. .. . .
73 I Two Rivers . . .. . . . .. . . . . .
·")O Redland' . .. ........... .
3 Tehama . ..... .... . .... .
603 Dimond ......... .. . . .. .
637 Palisade; ...... . . .. ... . .
405 Moneta .... . . . .. .. • .. . ..
538 Ascot . .. .. .. . .. ..... . . .
642 La Cumhre .... .. . . . .. . .
-189 East Bay . ... .... . ...... .
450 Van Nuys ..... . , ...... . .
K20 Mar Vista ..... .. . ... , .. .
~o Ione . . ........... ... .. .
415 America .. . .. . . .. ... . . . .
792 Millbrae . . . . .. .. ...... . .
647 Hawthorne . .. ...... , ... .
334 Covina .. . . ... ...... . .. .
467 Culver City ..... ..... ... .
457 Monterey Park ... .. ..... .
120 Fidelity ........ ..... . . . .
259 Evergreen . . ..... • .. . ... .
594 Service .. ..... . ... .. ... .
604 Juhilee .. . . ... . . .. ... • ..
7 JO Anacapa . ..... . . .. . .. .. .
402 Brawley ..... .... . ... .. .
R23 Maccabee ..... . . ... ... .
382 Highland Park .. .. . ... . . .
667 Meridian ... . . . . .. . . . . . . .
423 Florence . .. . . . ... . . .... .
546 San Gabriel . . .... . ..... .
739 La Canada .. ... . . ..... . .
811 Woodland Hills .. .... ... .
685 San Manno .... .. . ... . . . .
797 Tila Pass ..... ....... ... .
655 Monte Vi,ta . . . ....... .. .
661 Malta . ........ . . . . . . . . .
745 Penin!>ula . ............. .
52!! Beverly Hills . .... . .... . .
607 Sojourner ... . . . . . , . . . . . .
372 Gardena ..... . ... . .... .
578 Progrc,!>ive ..... , • .. .... .

Gift

The following Lodges have attained Service Roll status by average member
contributions of between $4 .00 and $5. 99.

6.6-1

6.63
6 .61
6 .57
6.53
6 .51
6.50
6 .48
6 .-17
6.44
6.40
6.39
6.37
6 .36
6 .34
6 .34

6 .32
6 .31
6.29
6.28

6 .25
6 .21

6.20
6 .19
6 . 19
6 . 19
6 . 17
6 . 17

6. 13
6 . 12
6. 12
6 . 10
6. 10
6.09
6.08
6 .07

6.07
6 .07
6 .07

6.06
6.06
6.05
6 .05

6.05
6 .03
6 .03
6.02
6.01

109

Average
L odxe
512 Palms . .. ... . . . . . . .. .. . .
733 Golden Empire . . .. .. . .. • .
587 Valley Forge ......... . . .
737 Hill sbo rough . . . . .... . . . .
113 Eden . . .. .. . .... . .. . ... .
242 Magnolia .. .. .. . . .... . . .
441 Coronado ..... . ..... . . . .
644 Lomita . . .. ......... ... .
622 Atwater . . ... .. .. . .. .. . .
785 Paramo un t ... . ...... . .. .
IO San Jose . .......•. . . , . . .
596 G uardian ... . ... .. ... .. .
740 Opponunity .. . . ..... .. . .
796 Golden Valley .. .. . . . ... .
537 Utopia . .... ... . ..... .. .
684 Trona . ... ......... . . . . .
446 La Puente . .. .. .. . .. . .. . .
716 Belmont Shore .. . . . .. ... .
713 Castro Valley . . .... . .. . . .
794 Mt. Wilson . . . . . . . .. . • . . .
635 R iver>ide .... .... ...... .
167 Alameda . .. . ...... ..... .
616 R.E. Dolley ........ . .. ..
574 S.W. Hacke n ........ . . . .
306 Ash lar .. .. . ..... . .. .. . . .
451 Montebello . . . . ... . .. . . . .
577 Sunnyside . . . . . . . .... . .. .
744 San Leandro:. . ... .. . . .. .
397 Rising Light .. ....... .. . .
61 L ive Oak ... . . ...... ... .
140 Cunis .. ........... . . .. .
293 Orange Grove . . . .. .. .... .
586 Garden Grove . . .... . . . .. .
730 Polaris .. . .... . ........ .
824 Camarillo .. ...... ... , . . .
589 Kauai . ...... ...... .... .
761 Josiah W . Roller .. . . . ... .
774 Waikiki . .... . ..... . .. . .
479 Golden Rule . .. . ...... .. .
714 Blue Lakes ... . . . . . .. . .. .
181 Russian R iver . . . .. ...... .
777 Pinnacle .. ........ .... . .
40 Sacramento . .......... . .
351 Palestine-Craftsmen . . .. .
764 Heritage . ...... . ....... .
766 James H. Kew . .. . . . .... .
198 Wilmin gton . .. .. .. . ... . .
418 Elysian . .. . . . . .. ... . .. . .
621 The Gardens ........ .... .
220 Downey .. . ... . ... . . ... .
147 Eel River . . . . ... . .... . . .

No.

Gift
5.99
5.96

5.94
5.92
5.91
5.9 1
5.90
5.90
5.88
5.88
5.R5
5.82
5. 78
5.78
5.75
5.74
5.73
5 .7 3
5.68
5 .6 7
5.66
5.63
5.63
5.61
5.60
5 .60
5 .60
5.59

5.58
5.57
5.57
5.55
5.53
5.53

5.52
5.51
5.49
5.49
5.48
5.47
5.46
5.46
5.45
5.44
5.44
5.44

5.43
5.43
5.43

5.42
5.41

A verage

No.
Lodxe
J.W Oriental . . ... ....... .. . .
299 Liben)· ..... . .... . ..... .
406 B urbank ... . ....... . ... .
462 Paul Revere . .. . . ..... . . .
264 Hesperian . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .
605 Glassell Park ........ . .. .
81 8 Great Lights . . ... ... . . .. .
356 Mill Valley . ... ....... .. .
582 Rialto .... . . . . . . . ... . . . .
598 Pearl Harhor . . ......... . .
558 Point Finnin . .. . ....... . .
194 Mountain View ... . . . . .. .
529 Loya lty . . .. . . .. .. . ..... .
267 Galt . . . ........ ... . . .. .
241 Santa Ana .. . , . . . . ... . . . .
524 Catalina Island . ....... .. .
21 4 San Buenaventura . ... . .. .
348 San Bernard ino . ... .. ... .
572 James Madison .. . . . ..... .
613 Three Pillars . ......... . . .
734 Kit Carson .... . . .... . . . .
272 Pasadena .... . . ...... .. .
627 Lamanda Park . .. . . . .... .
787 Westmin ster .. . ..... . . . . .
168 Redwood City ..... . .... .
20 Washington . . . . . .. . . ... .
320 South Gate .. .... . ...... .
370 Amity-Seal Rock . .. . . ... .
694 San Antonio ... ......... .
715 Magnolia Park . ........ . .
5 Benicia ... ......... . .. . .
504 Seaside .... ....... . .. . . .
268 Durant . .. .... . ... .. ... .
246 Pomona . ..... . .. .. .... .
392 West Lake ... ........ • . .
688 Oildale . ..... . . .... .... .
319 Hollenbeck . . . . . .. . . . . .. .
648 Damasc us . .. . ........•..
6 82 Bars tow . ... . ... . . ... .. .
325 Consuelo . ... . . . .... . . . .
369 Ocean Park . . ...... . .... .
769 Palmdale . . .... . . ... .. . .
30 Golden Gate Speranza .. . . .
314 Temescal . . .... . ....... .
305 Azusa . . ... . . . ....... . . .
21 Hawaiian .. ... . . .. . . . . . .
560 Plymouth .... . . . ... .. .. .
762 Coasts ide .. . ... ..... ... .
602 Melrose . .. . . ... . .. . .. . .
697 Saint Elmo .... . • ...... ..
709 Lorenzo . . .... , ....... . .

Gift
5.39
5.39
5.39
5.38
5.37
5. 37
5.37
5.36
5.36
5.35
5.34
5.33
5.33
5.32

5.31
5.31
5.30
5.29
5.26
5.26
5.24
5.23

5.23
5.22
5.1 9
5.17
5.17
5. 17
5.17
5.17
5.15
5. 14
5. 13
5. 12
5 . 12
5.10
5.08

5 .07
5.07
5.06

5.05
5.05
5.03
5.03
5.01

5.00
4 .99
4 .99
4 .98
4 .98
4.98

110

No.
Lodge
35 San Diego .............. .
286
807
274
809
287
323
367
654
358
461
608
349
670
752
173

Paso Robles ............ .
Conejo Valley .......... .
Arroyo ............ . ... .
Los Alamitos ........... .
Winnedumah .... . ...... .
Whittier ............... .
Sou th Pasad en a . ........ .
Jordan ................. .
Golden State ............ .
Argonaut-Argonne ..... .
Granada .............. .
Sequoia ............... .
Greenleaf ............ . . .
Luther Burbank ......... .
Elk Grove .............. .
505 Silver Cord ....... . .... .
650 La Brea ..... . ...... . ... .
696 Crossroads ...... . .. . ... .
728 Lakewood ............. .
562 Pyramid ...... . ... . .... .
352 Sunset ................. .
759 El Rancho ....... . . . .... .
651 Menlo Park ..... . ....... .
523 Bellflower ............. .
770 Lake Chabot ..... . ..... .
609 Provident ......... . .... .
222 Roseville .......... . .. . .
673 Far West ... . . . .. . ...... .
600 Lynwood .... . ....... . . .
57 Santa Rosa ............. .
396 Apollo ................ .
380 Huntington Beach .
448 Mount Diablo . . ..... . . . . .
668 San Gorgonio ....... . . . .
43 Hiram ...... . .. .. . . .... .
243 Eucalyptus ............. .
339 Fullenon ... . . .. . . ...... .
407 La Mesa .. . ... . ..... .. . .
547 Arcadia ... . ........ . . . . .
1 California .. . .......... . .
390 Imperial . . ... . ......... .
720 Mineral King .... . ...... .
499 Capital City . .. . . .. . . . .. .
123 Sotoyome . . . ... . ....... .
50 Forbestown .. ...... .. .. .
533 Azure ........... . .... . .
701 Santa Ynez Valley ... . . . . .
143 Franklin .... . ... .. .. . .. .
393 Balder ...... .. .... . .... .
693 Palm Springs ... . . .. . . .. .
458 Henry S. Orme . . ....... . .
98 Hornitos . . .. ... . .. . .... .
503 Point . . . . . . .. ....... . . . .

GR A'.\ID LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDI NGS OF THE
Average
Gift
4.97
4.97
4.96
4.95
4.95
4.93
4.93
4.93
4.93
4.92
4.92
4.92
4.91
4.91
4.91
4.90
4 90
4.90
4.90
4.90
4.89
4.88
4.88
4.87
4.85
4.84
4.83
4.81
4.81
4.80

4.79
4.79
4.78
4.78
4.77
4.76

4.76
4.73
4.73
4.73

4.71
4.71
4.71
4.70
4.68

4.67
4.67
4.67
4.66
4.66
4.66

4 .65
4.64
4.64

No.

Lodge

551 Lakeshore ............ . . .
308 Monrovia . ." ... . ........ .
101 Clay ........ .. .. ... . .. .
628 Truth ................. .
421 Inglewood ............. .
653 Fontana ............... .
419 Upland ..... . .. . ....... .
633 Poin senia .. . . . .. . . .. ... .
478 Thousand Oaks ......... .
292 Los Gatos .. . ... . . . .. . . . .
433 Hammonton ..... . ...... .
506 Mount Olive .. . . . . . .... . .
437 Lancaster ........ . ..... .
563 South Park ............. .
55 Suisun ......... . ...... .
330 Kilauea ................ .
678 Altadena ............. . . .
804 More.no Valley .. . .... . .. .
724 San Ramon Valley .. . .... .
742 Manhattan . ............ .
17 La Parfaite Union ........ .
221 Inyo .................. .
337 Carquinez ........... . .. .
357 Buena Park ............. .
757 Channel ......... . ... . . .
I 34 Vacaville .............. .
687 Vista .. . . . .......... . .. .
18 Mountain Shade . . .
590 Compass ........... .
738 Arvin . ... . .. . .. .. . .. .. .
721 Home ................. .
l 17 Concord .. . .. . .... . .. . . .
535 Alexander Hamilton ...... .
106 Arcata ........ . ... . .... .
335 W est Gate .............. .
343 San Fernando .... . .. . .. . .
676 Willow Glen . ... . ... . .
497 Fremont . ... . .. . ... . . . . .
799 Clairemont Mesa .. . .. . . . .
212 South San Francisco ..
773 Tejon .. . .... .. .. . .. . .. .
166 San Francisco .... .
417 Clo vis . . . . . .......... . . .
671 San Clemente ...... .
336 Fruitvale . . . . . . . ........ .
387 Coalinga.
. ....... .
690 San Carlos ..... . . . . . . .. .
508 Joppa ................ . .
771 Miss ion Bay . . . . . .. .
25 Georgetown ... . .. . . .. . . .
232 Janesville .......... . .. . .
315 Norwalk-Euclid .. . .... . .
457 Ramona ......... . .... . .
703 Westchester ... . .. . ..... .

Average
Gift
4.64
4.63
4.62
4.62
4.61
4.60
4 59
4.59
4.58
4.56
4.56
4.55
4.53
4.52
4.50
4.49
4.49

4.49
4.48
4.47
4.46
4.46
4.46
4.46
4.45
4.44
4 .43
4.42
4.41
4.41
4.40
4.38
4.38
4.37
4.37
4.37
4.35
4.34
4 .33
4.31
4.31
4 .29
4. 29
4 .29
4 28
4.28
4.28
4.27
4.26
4.24
4.24
4 24
4 24
4.24

No.

Lodge

755 Go lden Bowl .... .. .. . . . .
237 Guadalupe ..... . .. . . ... .
751 Hamilton .. . ..... .. .... .
612 Tem ple City ............ .
763 Arabic . ..... . ... . ..... .
93 St. Helena ........... . . .
477 Temblor ...... . ..... . .. .
502 Harbor .... . ....... . ... .
618 Southl and . ..... . ...... . .
626 C hula Vista ....... .. ... .
58 Union ................. .
236 Hills Ferry .. . ... . .. . . . . .
288 Maxwell ........... . ... .
363 Berkeley ... .. . ....... . . .
695 Meudell ... . .. . .. . . .. . . .
408 Sierra Mad re ........... .
500 Roose•·elt .............. .
666 Reseda ...... . .... .. ... .
139 Park-Crockett ......... .
217 Monterey .. . .. . .. . .. . . . .
472 Lodge Maui ............ .
803 The Gabilan ... .. .. .. . .. .
19 San Joaquin ......... . . . .
326 Needl es . ... . .... . . . . . . .
399 Fraternity .. .. ... .. . . . . . .
431 Alpha ............... . . .

A verage
Gift
4.24
4 .23
4.23
4.22
4 .22
4.20
4.20
4.20
4.20
4.20
4 . 19
4.19
4.19
4.17
4.17
4.16

4.16
4.16
4. 15
4.15
4.15
4.15
4.14
4.14
4.14

4.13

No.
534
815
379
567
61 1
375
5 25
588
347
297
14
64
87
520
723
741
110
6 32
652
45
265
295
6 15
60
328
381

Lodge
Forest Hill . .... . . . ..... .
M ount Baldy . . ... . . .. . . .
Fillmore ............. . . .
Searchl ight . . ........ . . . .
Canoga ........ .. ... ... .
R ichmond . .. . . . . . .... . . .
George Washington . ... . . .
El Se reno ............. . .
McKinley .. . ..... . ... .. .
Dunsmuir ........... . .. .
Temple .. . . . . . .... .. . . . .
Natoma . . . .. . .......... .
Naval ..... . . . . . ....... .
Ionic .... . ..... . . . . . ... .
Acalanes ..... . . . ... . .. . .
Ty re ..... . ......... . .. .
Pajaro ................. .
Normal Hei ghts .. . . .. .. . .
Crescenta Valley ........ .
Crescent . . ............ . .
Orland ........... . ... . .
Mount Jac kson ... . . .. . . . .
Hemet . .. ........ . .... .
Plumas ... .. . .. ........ .
Redo nd o ....... . . . . . . . . .
O ceans ide . ... . .... .. .. .

11 I
A verage
Gift
4 . 12
4 . 11
4.09
4.09
4. 09
4 .08
4.08
4.08
4 07
4 06
4.05
4.05
4. 05
4. 05
4. 04
4 .04
4.02
4. 02
4 .02
4. 0 1
4.01
4.01
4.0 1
4.00
4 .00
4 .00

The followin g Lodges have attained Service Ro ll status by average member
contri butions of. between $3.00 and $3. 99.
No.

lodge

639 Composite . . .. . . ... . .. . .
748 Highland .... . ... ... ... .
33 Ophir ..... ... ... . .. .. . .
368 Unity .. . ... . ....... . .. .
583 Wasco ..... . . . . .. . .... .
521 Orinda ............... . .
617 Big Bear ...... .... . .. . . .
81 Yolo . . ........ . . .. ... . .
344 Star King . . . ..... . .. . .. .
775 San Dieguito .... .. . .. .. .
810 Victoria Palms .... . .. . .. .
111 Chico .......... . .... .. .
338 San Jacinto .......... .
657 John D. Spreckels ....... .
391 East Belt ....... . ... .. . . .
498 Sto,, kton ... . .. . ..... .. . .
41 Martinez ... . . . ......... .
104 Lexington . . ....... . .... .
772 Avenal ... . ............ .
545 Veritas- Jonathan ....... .
201 Silveyville ............. .
16 Eureka ...... . ...... .. . .

A1•erage
Gift

No.

J.99
3.99
3. 98
3.98
3.98
3.96
3.96
3.95
3.95
3.92
3.92
3.91
3.91
3.91
3 .90
3.90
3.89
3.89
3.87
3.85
3.83
3.82

18 0
579
705
732
557
51 1
79
400
50 1
7 18
208
346
41 2
169
178
196
65 9
190
69 1
313
473
442

Lodge
Pe taluma .. .. . . . ... . .. .
Warren G. Harding . ..... .
El Cerrito ............... .
San Juan . . . .... . ... . ... .
Hem10sa ....... . . . .... . .
Sunnyvale ......... . ... .
Humbold t, . . . .. ... .. . .. .
Burl ingame .... . ...... . .
We stwood .. . .. . ...... . .
San Lorenzo Valley ..... . .
Rio Vista .. .. ....... .. . .
Palo Alto . . .. .. . . . . .. .. .
Calexico .. . . . .. .. ... . .. .
M ission .. .. .... . ... . . . .
Ph oen ix ... . . . . . . . . .... .
San Simeon . ....... . ... .
La HabrJ . . .. . .. ... . .. . .
N o rthem Light ...... . . . . .
Indian Well s Valley . . . ... .
Tehachapi . . .... .. .. . ... .
Blythe . . ............. .
Blackme r . .... .. . . .... . .

Average
Gift
3 .82
3. 82
3.82
3.82
3.8 1
3 .79
3. 78
3.78
3.78
J. 78
3. 77
3.77
3.77
3.76
3. 76
3. 76
3 .76
3. 75
3.75
3.74
3.74
3.73

112

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
570 Military Service ... .. •...
245 Laurel . .. ..... .. ... .... .
471 Delta . .. ..... . .. ..... .. .
493 Atascadero .... .. .. ..... .
726 Yucaipa ...... .. ..... .. .
476 Coachella . .... ... ...... .
37 Howard . ...... . . .. .... .
78 Calaveras .... .. .. • ......
131 Woodbridg e ........ • ....
204 Salinas .... .. .... ... ... .
233 Calistoga .... ... . .. . . .. .
24 Mariposa .. . . ... ....... .
207 Anaheim .. .......... ... .
355 Hollywood .... . .. . .. ... .
486 Caledonia ..... . ..... . .. .
554 Educator .. ....... .. .... .
592 Tujunga .. . ... .. ..... . . .
37 1 Le Progress De L ' Oceanie . .
411 Perris ..... . ..... .. .... .
4~) Standard .......... . . . .. .
531 Alexandria . ........ .... .
749 Merced .......... . .. ... .
708 Seafaring .... . ......... .
13 '.'levada . .......... ..... .
145 Vitruvius ... . .... ... ... .
569 Chateau Thierry .. ... . . .. .
736 Lemon Grove .......... . .
680 Carmel ..... . .......... .
791 General Henry H . A mold ..
22 Occ idental . ... ......... .
552 Semper Virens .... ... .
719 Estero . .. ..... .. ....... .
549 Justice ..... .. ... ...... .
722 George E. Tutt . ... . . .... .
789 Oak Plains ... . ...... . .. .
Rl2 Triad . .... . .. .... .. . . . . .
12 Yount . ... ..... . ..... . . .
226 San Mateo .......... . .. .
403 Yerba Buena ........ .. . .
725 Sam! John' s ... ... .... .. .
466 Libertas .. .......... . .. .
482 Clarence F. Smith .... ... .
9 Corinthian . .. ..... .. ... .
5 1 lllinoistown ..... . ...... •
401 Bay View . .. ..... .. .... .
383 Oros1 . .. ..... .. .... . .•.
735 Oasis of Mara .....•.... ..
129 Nicolaus . .... ... .. . . .. . .
556 Fairfax ... .. . .... . .. . .. .
200 Truckee ...... ... ... . .. .
507 El Segundo .. ...... . .... .
32 Gold Hill . .... . . . .... . . .
70 Enterprise . .... . .. .. .. .. .
179 Mendocino .. .... . .... .. .

AveTage
Gift
3.73
3 .72
3.72
3 .72
3.72
3.7 1
3.70
3.69
3.69
3. 69
3.69
3.68
3.68
3.68
3.68
3.68
3.68
3.67
3.66
3 .66
3.66
3.66
3.65
3 .63
3.63
3.63
3.62
3.6 1
3.61
3. 59
3.59
3.59
3.56
3 .56
3.56
3.56
3.55
3.54
3.54
3.54
3.53
3. 51
3.50
3.49
3. 48
3.47
3.47
3 .46
3 .46
3.45
3. ~

3.43
3.42
3.42

A~·eTage

lodge
No.
584 Harding . .......... .. .. .
692 Travelers . .. .... ... ... . .
~ \fount Moriah . ......... .
76 Bear \ fountain .. .... ... . .
122 Alamo . .. .. .. . . .. ..... .
469 Yorba Linda .......... .. .
801 Koolau . .. .. .... .. .•. ...
65 Amador ... .. ... .. ..... .
275 Oakdale . . . .......... .. .
425 Holtville . .... ..... . .... .
669 John P. Jarman .. ...• . . ...
454 Crocker . . . .. . ........ . .
103 Orovi lle .. .... . ..... . .. .
388 Parnassus- Presidio ... . . .
808 Scepter . .. . .......... .. .
260 King Solomon' s Seaport . . .
619 Neptune . ... ... .... ... . .
7 12 Los Altos ... . ... . ...... .
205 Olivet . . .... ... .... ... . .
225 Brooklyn .. .... . . .. . . .. .
230 North Butte ..... . . ..... .
674 Los Cerritos ... .. ... ... . .
365 Willits .... . ..... .. ... . .
576 El Cajon Valley .... . .. . . .
332 San Pedro . ... .. .... ... . .
427 C hino Valley .......... . .
436 C laremont .. .... . . ..... .
228 Athens . ..... . ..... .. . . .
798 Ashland .......... .•... .
124 Table Mountain .. . ...... .
374 United ........ .... .. .. .
54 1 Shatruck-S tephens ...... .
161 Keystone .......... . . .. .
262 Lompoc . .... .. .... ... . .
754 San Pablo .... .. . . ..... . .
784 Leland Stanford .. ... .... .
280 Madera .. .. . . . ...... .. . .
26 El Dorado ...... .. ..... . .
3 17 Fallbrook . ... .......... .
459 Riverbank .. .... ... ... .. .
827 Kem River Valley ....... .
341 Oxnard . . .. .... .... .... .
128 Visalia .. .... . .... ... •..
686 Albany . .. . ... .. .. . .. . . .
788 Sierra . . ... ...... . ..... .
256 Lodi ..... ... .... ... . . . .
27 Trinity . .......... ..... .
491 Woodstock . . .... .. . .. . . .
782 Silverado .... . .... . ... . .
289 Elsinore . .......... ... . .
68 Morning Star ..... . ..... .
302 Santa Lucia . ... ........ .
345 Brentwood . .....•...• . . .
424 Exeter .. .. . ...... . ..... .

Gift

f/O.

3.42
3.42
3.41
3 .41
3.41
3.41
3.41
3.40
3.40
3.40
3.40
3.39
3.38
3.38
J .36
3.35
3 .35
3.35
3. 34
3.33
3.30
3.30
3.29
3.29
3.27
3.27
3.27
3.26
3.26
3.24
3.24
3 .23
3.22
3. 22
3.22
3.22
3. 19
3. 18
3. 18
3. 18
3 . 18
3.17
3.1 6
3. 16
J . 16
3.14
3. 13
J . 13

750 Mother Colony .......... .
822 Boron .......... .. . .... .
366 Las Palmas .... . .. . ... . . .
S09 Benjamin Franklin . . .. .. . .
S9 I Escalon ... . . . .... .. .... .
384 El Centro .......... .. . . .
620 Point Loma ..... .. ...... .
t 26 La Fayette .... .. .. ... .. .
301 Ontario . . . .. ..... . .... . .
429 Pittsburg . ..... . ...... .. .
494 Acom . ..... . .... . . . ... .
480 Fellowship ...... . .. . . . . •
224 Ba.ker~ field .... . ... . . .. . .

3. 13
J .1 2

3 II
3. 11
3. 11
3. 11

lodge

Average
Gift
3. 11
3. 11
3 . 10
3. 10
3.09
3.08
3. 08
3.07
3 .07
3 .07
3 .07
3 .06
3.05

113

lodge
No.
564 Foothill ... . ..... . .
756 C layton Valley ... . .. .. .. .
38 Santa Cruz . ........ . . . . .
185 C laiborne . .. .... . ...... .
59 Gravel Range .. .... . . . .. .
89 Rose 's Bar .......... ... .
91 North Star .. .. .. .... ... . .
164 Harm ony .......... . . . . .
188 Oakland . . . .......... .. .
2 18 Mosaic ... . ..... . .... . . .
294 Traver .. ..... ... ... .. .. .
747 Claude H. Morri ~on ... . .. .

A veTage
Gift
3 04
3.04
3.02
3.02
3.01
3.00
3.00
3.00
J .00
3.00
3.00
3.00

CONCLUS ION

Our Special thank s to our Grand Master, the Most Worshipf ul Raymond A.
Ebbage , who so willingly and sincerely brought the message to our Members
throughout the Jurisdicti on. He has been an inspiratio n to the Endowme nt Board
by his dedicatio n for the support of our Homes .
We ex.press our thanks to the Grand Lodge Officers , Past Grand Masters, and
Grand Lodge Committe emen for their wholehea rted support . To the Grand Lecturer, Assistant Grand Lecture rs, Masters, Wardens and Endowme nt Committeeme?, our thanks for helping to encourage our Brothers of this great fraternity to
share m the oppo.n:unity of participat ing in this worthy program.
We appreciat e the tremendo us assistance given to this committe e by our
Grand Lodge Office, o ur Grand Secretary Edward H. Siems, and Assistant Grand
Secretary Verne W. Hendrix . The efficient staff has been invaluabl e to the success
of our program .
We are most grateful to the 109.074 Brethren who contribute d $1,039,2 46.43
for our permanen t Endowme nt Fund .
Each member of the Board is to be commend ed for his dedicatio n to the
Endowment Program. This is a most rewarding experienc e to be a part of this
~ndeavor to bring happiness and sec urity to those who need o ur help . The contm~ed support of all our Brethren is needed to make the Endowme nt Program a
lasting one. As we have said in one of our pamphlet s, " Happiness Is" Love for
each other.
Respectfu lly Submitted
MASON IC
BOARD

HOMES

ENDOW MENT

ROBERT E. HILTS , Chairman

GRAN D LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

114

B OARD M EMBERS

EN DOW'MENT FUND

David R. Oltman (615)
Robert E. McMasters, Sr. (13)
M. Reed Wilson (20)
George W. Goris (187)
Knudt K . Andersen (205)
E. Dale Peck (467)
Will B. Mattly ( 103)
Joseph C. Cox (543)
J . Nonnan Roberts (621)
Norman M. Schultz (369)
Lewis P. Reitennan (382)
Russell F. Grindle (55)
Irving Berliner ( 120)
D.R. Wheaton (790)
Clement A. Plecarpo (68)
William E. Caluwell (123)
Fred S. Hirsch (42)

James B. Bouick ( 139)
Sam Chadnow (623)
Ric hard A. Jolly (167)
William H. Johnson (820)
Thomas K.H. Wong (443)
Gerald E. Grunert (147)
H. Francis Lewis ( 192)
Henry E. Noguchi (625)
Richard R. Danover (325)
Paul M . Hayes (403)
R.D. Wetzel (430)
Donald G. Halderman (700)
Ralph Pfimnan (676)
Leeman Carl Ke nnedy (603 l
Richard E. Bonde (24)
George C. Poloy nis (773)
Robe rt Thomso n (776)

July 1, 1973 · June 30 , 19 74
(The Lodge designation ind i c ates conriection by

i ,,tere: st bu t not necessari fy by membe rshi p)
GI FTS AN D DONATIONS
EST ATES:

Thoma s M. Armstron g
Lawrenc.e Car 1eto n Bee rs
~e Ima I'\. Bi scooff

Leonard W~ Co l I i ns
J onanna H, Do k
Jeanet te E. Daley
EI Jen Water s Dav ts

Berij~in stogo~i t z

(llenora h Lodge No. 623)

Ra ymond S. Wa r ne r

Reba Buck Yo t ter
111 SC:

-

900,000

-

,___

ll r. I> l1 r1;. John Ai ni I i an
llr, & ll r s. P. J. Albert

t-

-

--

-

~

~

R. G. Ba l ley
H.F. Barn es
Harry A. Be hr
Hr, & Mrs . Bou rke
Eugene P, Bradley
Russell I. Bradley
Richard T. Burns
Cal ifo r n ia I nstit ute o f Tec hno lo gy
Rob e r t D. Chandl e r
Robe rt H. Cla r k
Don A. Davis
Jwnes L Dawson
Lo ui s Oembi ker
Barbara J. Oe Thomas

Div i s ion One I ns pec to rs Assoc .
Le vi T. Dre nn on
O\tof'Yer's Busi ness Servi ce

700,000

600,000

(George \lash in9ton l odge No. 525)
(Pa rnassus • Pres i d io Lo dge No. 388)
(Sa c ramen t o Lodge No. 40)
(York Lodg e No. 423)

Arcata Gr•phics Employ ees-combined
Chari t ies Fu nd ~nc.

1,100,000

800,000

( Ca r me I i ta Lodge ~. 599)

(S i gna l Lodge No . 543)
(:; l e nda le Lodge No. 544)
(\lest Lake Lo dge ~ . 392)
(Pa r k Bou levard Lodge No. 568)
( Owensmou th Lodge No. 6 11)

Orvil le C. Sweeney

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT FUND

(Pacif ic Grove Lodge No . 33 1)

Louise Schroder Hi ll
Ursu la S. Hi ll s inge r
Cha r l es Ens ign Ho we I I
Charles E. Keyes
Iii 11 i am Jos eph Lad d
Edwa r d II, Long
Ra ymond ford llorton
CI yde F. Ne wton
Jame s Hoadley Peak
Hel e n Pol k

Be s sie S l aug ht er
Freder ick C. Smit h
Fr ed II, and Mabel A, Stern
Alfred J. Stre i

Contributions through the l odges
For Years Ended June 30th

( Elsino re Lodge No . 289)

Roy E. Buchm,an

Edwin Ar thur Cope
llar y Elwi Id• Carothe r s

v; r gin ia C. Scroggs

1,00 0,000

115

1965 1966 1967 1968 1969 1970 1971 1972 1973 1974

soo .oo
13, 565 . 16
2 7. 741. 25
46. 16
10 ,000 . 00
17. 506 . 66
7, 924, 33
35 , 149. 78
4,426, 12
2. 275.76
3, 300.00
',000,00
621.29
780 . 76
11, 969. 83
13 ,604. 78

4, ooo .oo
615.15
1,000 ,00
96. 05

16o . oo
3 , OOD.00
29,369,00
2,500 . 00
15 .496. 56
2 ,600 . 00
2 . 719.00
137, 483. 77
4, 323 . 56

Raymond A. Ebb age
Ri c hard R. E lsass
Jack E. Faul kner
o. A. fox
Margaret A. f ox
Ferdinand & Est her French
Ha rry R. Fu ll e r
Ma rjori e Go ld
Mi nnie B. Goldbe r g
Roger Hanson
H i gh-Twe I ve Bowl i n9 Assoc.

HI gh Twe Ive Cl ub of Hueneme Bay
Vi rg i n i a E. Hi ll
Horne Lodge No . 721, F. & A. 11 ., Pas t
Ma ster s Assoc.
Kennet h Huchingson

llesle y 11. Jac kson
George H. Jeff re y
Jet Propu lsion Laboratory Employees
Har ry E. Joy

116

PIWCEEDINGS OF THE

ENDCMIENT FU ND (Cont i nu ed)
Ill SC:

John II, K.,,...., I er
John Kiely
Jack L. Kolbenstetter
Soph I e Kud I i k
Beverlee J, Lamphieal
11111 lam F, LaVal ley
Vic tori a II. Law
Leilani Chapter, No, 8, 0.E.S.
Frank P. Lewi s
II i I I i am C, Lew I s
Long Beach llaso n i c C1ub

HEHORIALS

Horr110nd E, Pr att
Rainbow for Girls NO. I .
San F rant i sco
Raytheon Employees

i on C. Ac uff
Joseph B. Acuff
WI 11 \I. Adams

Mr, & Mrs. H. Wayne Rice

Keith Cline Adk i ns
Geo r ge II, Ahle r
John Aj oo t i an
A'""'ed F. Alami
George o. Albe r t

John Rice

Herbert G. Riggs
Mr. & H r s. Rogner
Norman Rose

Roya 1 Crown Beverage Co.
Frank P. Ryan

Marin "'utal Benefit Assoc.

Friends of Ferdioand C.l•rence Saunders

Richard E. ll•theny
Liniel II, ll•yes
\l ayne McKenzl e
Conzola P. McHatt
Mobile Genel"'al Repair, P111 sadena
llo bi 1 011 Employees
ti inton H. f"100r'e
James Mo,. r i son
Joe I. llo>te ller
/Ir, & 11rs. lloutinho
Linda IC Navarro
Llewellyn I(. Ne lson

Richard G. Schaler
Soph i e Schoenfe 1d
Arthur M, Shackelford
Claude D, Sheppard
Mr, & Mr>, Ronald Smith
Liss i e B. Solomon
Southland Lodge, Ho. 618 . F.tA.M.
Charles II, Spark
Horace \I, Steele

Nevada-S ier r a combined

Fede ral Ca.,paign
Mr . L Mrs.

Nof ri s

Order of the Golden Slipper,11.H.C.,
Ayn Chapte r
Order of the Golden Slipper,11.H.C.
Daleth Chapter
Order of the Golden Sllpper,11.H.C.
l(aph Chapter
Palm Springs lodge Ho. 693,F.&A.M.,
Pa s t Misters
Robert Parker
Iii ldred R, Parsons
Glenn D. Perring
~arga ret A. Pi ei-ce

Ma,.; E, Sutton

I ren a J. Sweeney
Floyd J, Swl ft
Iii ldred G. Tattersall
Alvis II, hylo r
Wilhel m H, Teebken
J ohn II, Utterback
Fred G, \la Ike r
James C. ll•ll l ng
llill iam R. llatkins
Luc i en v. White

Dr,

117

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~Mrs.

R. A. \lh i teman

Robert E. Whl tmer
Gordon L. Win ston

J, H. wortell
Gladys A. Wrai th
ttar...,od L, llr i ght

Francis H. H. Adamson

Florence A1exander

Jesse Jacob Ale>e•nder
llill i am 8. Alexander
Hrs. William B. Alexander

Curt is Norman Beech l er
Margie Beeso n

Sa die Br otzman

Wi 11 i am H. Belcher
George Seward Beldham
Frederick T. Bel l
Leo Be lluomini

Gera l d H. Brown

Lawren ce O.

Benama t i

Helga Brovo l d
Irving K. Br ower
Gera l dine Luverne Brown

Jesse 8 rown
J o hn L. Brown

Edward Barton Bench
John Herbert Bender
Stella Benguia t
Fred Ben i off

Ken neth H. Brown
Roy Kenneth Brown
Vera A Ii ce Brown

Gordon E roe st Bent
Mr. Bentz
Benton Means Be rbower
Dona I d Ber gen
Ea r le Berger

Ra I ph R, Browne
Alvin A, Brunhofer
Hen r y J. Brusst ar , Sr.

Iii 11 iam E. Brown
\Ji 11 i am '1cK i n 1ey Brown

Do ra Al !en
Mildred Allen
Abe I A 11 goewe r
Lav i na Al ltucke r
Jos e ph Alonzo
Wi I l I am T. Al va r ado
Iii 11 i am J. Ama nn
Ly nwood Ames
ta ro l lne Amodt
ta rl R. Ande r son
Gust G. Ande r son
Joseph Ande r son

Margaret Bi tco n

K. Wade Ande r so n
Peter E . And re sen

Henry F . Slack
Ethe l A. Blackmer

Wil l i am Elvin And rews
II i I ton F. Ang 1e
waiter Ea r l Apel
tlary v. Ar chibald
Erne st J. Armando
Beulah 11. A,,,.,ur
E. Price Armstrong
Margaret Armstrong
Arthur Alonzo Arnold

Elmer Hen ry Bl a s e
Jay Irwi n 81 ayney
Frederick Vincent Bleuel, Sr.

E 11 zabeth Burrows
Di I l ard O. Burt

Iii l I i am Fr edri ck Bl ind
George Perry BI ock
Harry J. Blonder

F rank Butera

France s Asner

George H, Ashley
Ber tram S, Atkins
John W. Aughenbaugh
H• ywa rd Ay r es

Margaret 8••c.k
Je rre l 1 C. Babb
Elsie J, Bae r
Rich.rd A. Bailey
Joseph J. 8aioc.chi
Benjamin Bake r
Olva A. Baker
Wi nifred F. Baker
The r man T. Ba 11 ance
James E. Ballantyne
Iii 11 i am Spencer Bal l a r d
Ila I ter Iii 11 i am Ban ks on
Cur t is E. Barger

John Henry Sarnes
Maur i ce s. Ba rnet t
P•lmer Barrett

Paul Everet t Bartlett
Gordon Stanley hss
Frank James Bassett
LI l l i an /lay Bates
Clarence Beat
Elizabeth Ellis Becker
Ernest August Becker, J r .
Haro Id W. Bec ker

Alta Berry
Elmer T1'1omas Berryman
Herbert L. Be rteau,.;
LelVon Bi bler
Ben Bi 9e l ow
Naom i Bl 11 ingto n

James J. Bi rd
Ra le i gh Biss

August Boekman
Sara Andrea Sager

Raymond E, Boggs
John Argyle Sondeson
Caro 1 A. Boone
llilliam H. Sorjes
t1 r s, f. E. Borton
H11ndr i x G, Bo~
Livi a R;ose Bosc.o
Edwar-d Carmack Bo~

Raymond H. Bowles
Cl i fto n H. S°""'an
George Boi,.man
Jae.ob O. BoMman
James Al e x and er 6o""'1Jan

Arwoo d Budianan
Wi nf i e ld Buctine r

Russe ll Iii 1 l i am Buck
Do nald Bud i e
Fr ederic Bull
Re g i na ld Bunce
CI are nee E. Bur c h
Ira L. Bu r de tt
Oram Clinton Burdette

tlabel C, Burke
Roy Judah Burks
Ualter Burris

Lawton Su s sman

Bi 1 ly D. Byers
George Edwa rd Byers
James R. Cahi 11
Arth ur J. Caldwel I
Ti Ida C"""'ron
Dona Id Campbe 1 l
James W. tampbe I 1
Ha ek J, Canady
Roy C, Canady
Joseph Can i n i

Eleanor Cape I I
Donald Jo hn Capps
fl.Jny Ca r e y
Lee E. Carl i le
Cul Car lson
Edwin He rma n Carnat\an
Law r en c e H. Carr

Ada r. Boyd
Bart Boyd

E. C. H. ,.K i t" Car son
Hrs. Henry Case

Vernon A. Boyes

Clarence G. Casey

Fred H. Boy le
Joho II. Br ac ke nbury
Will i am J. Br adle y

Victor A. C•ssidy
Ra1ph Ca stne r

Henry George Brann

A 1 thea Cea sa r

Iii 11 i am J . Sreede
Ra Iph W. Breitenbucher
W. Z~ Br enneman
Ruby F. Bridges
ll• tson E. Bristol
Sa l ly D. Brockhoff
Lynn E. S rockman
Edward Frank Brooks
Richa rd Brooks
Jacob Iii. Bros4;h

Varnon C. Cash

Betty Cha ffee
t1arPon

B. Chaf f in

Ro bert L, Chambers
11111 1am £, Chand 1er
Ila I do Chase
Ill 11 i am Pa u l Chase
Nancy Chisholm
Ever ett ArtMur Chd st ern
T. O. Chri s tiansen

F, Mon roe Chu rchwe 11

118

Everett Cl sco
A lfred Lewis Clark
Elburr G. Cla r k
Samue I Gr anger CI a r k
A. c. Clarkson
Cha r l es O. Clau sen
James F. Cl•u sen
Dorothy Tenn i s Cleland
Stan l ey Clements
Garnett Bruce Cloud
\l illiam V. Clow
Floyd Clyde
Bryan C. Cobbett
Ha 1 Cockrum
Albert E. Coffey, Sr.
Loui s J. Cohn
Dudley K. Colclough
Unus Price Cole

Kenneth G. Coleman
Norman K. Collins
Pau I T. Co 11 i n5
\Ii 11 1am Don Co 11 ins
J. Iii lbur Combes
Nora Comstock
Newcomb Condee
C~rroll Bunyan Cone
Ruth Conger
Harry Eugene Cook
Harry Lou i s Cook
Rober t Cook
Raymond Ear I Cooley
Donald R. Coon
James Waite Cooper
Lyd i • Cope
\Ji 11 i an Herry Cornes
Chris Costa
Glen C. Coulson
111111 am John Court lour
Donald James Cour tn ey

Dolores Couturier
Frederick II. Cowel I
Arthur R. Cox
Bertha Cramer
Floy Crane
Hugh Crawford
Clyde Crenshaw
Hardy Cromwe 11
Er rol D. Cropsey
Paul I rving Crowel 1
C1arence 11. Cr u i ck shank
Reece Cruickshank
Har i e Cut ver
Ear l R. Cunming•
Geo r gia Currming~
Henry Pay5on Cumnock
Ivan Cunningham
Ros we 11 G. Cunn I ngh""'
Ill II i am L. Cunn inghan

George w. Curtis
11cDonald H. Curtis
Ned 11. Dalrymple
Evan R. Daniel
Arthur G. Daniel I
Wesley 11. Daniels
Clarence J. Danne r

PR OCEEDll'GS OF THE

GRA'.'JD LOIXIE OF CALIFORNIA

t<Et<OR I ALS ( Cont I nued)

MEllOR IALS (Cont I nued)

Frank C, Darby
Charles D. Dart
E. A. Carv i l l
Dave Davidson
Cynth i a Da vis

Earl August Davis
James A. Davis
Jolin A. Davis
Ma ri e Davis
Perry \J. Davis

Vern Davis
Wi 11 i am Roy Davi son

Elbert A. Dawson, Sr,
Harry Dawson
Helen Dawson

John L. Day
Juliet Maria Day
Clyde Vi rgi I Deal
Juanita oeearrows
John H. Del"lartin i
Harry T. Deming
Frank J. Denni 5
Gerald Dennis
Grant Dennis
Hen ri etta w. De.nni s t on
Ra 1ph E. Densmore
Joseph Maria Oet t l ing
Arthur David Oeven shire, Jr.
Arthur E. Devol
\Ji 11 i am Oewdney
Dean A. Dewh i rst
Edgar Della I fe
Fritz Di ckie
Gu i do DI Grazia
Nova Di 11
Charles Benjamin DI I I aha
Andrew Karri son Oithr i dge
\Ji 11 i am Me 1vi 11 e Dona I dson
Charles Edward Donne lly
Leslie John Donnelly
Edward J. Dorrel 1
Ralph Otto Edwin Dosch
wr 11 i am \Jal lace Douga I I
11, H. Do ug l as
Homer Looun i a Dowdy
Louis C. Drapeau
John Arrendall Driver
Carleton S. Dudley
Ralph Alben Duemling
SM1 Dufner
Ii i ll iafJI H. Dufton
James C11Hord Dugan
Ralph Dul I
Edwi n A. Dunbar
B. H. Dunc.an
Eugene D. Duncan
Ear le Dunn
Hu r i e 1 Joan Dunn
Ann Dunning
Charles B. DuPertius
Alton T. Durant
Thomas Arthur Durham
Wa rren Durr
Joseph P. Dutt
Jayro R. Oyer

Henry Easton
Kathryn Lends I ey Eberhart
Bessie Eby
Ro bert Jacob Ecke rt
Her man Benjamin Eden
James 11. Edg..,,an
John R. Eller
Raymond Pau I E 11 i ott
Phi 1 Ip El Ii thorpe
John O. E""'°ns
Herman L. Engelhardt
Myron G. Engholm
Nathan Fred English
J~mes E. Ennis
We s l ey R. Eproson
Abe B. Epstein
Sam Epste in
Ralph K. Erlandson
Art Es tensen
Clifford Carl Ester
Edward E. Ettorry
John James Evans
L. G. Evans
David Everett
Will 11 ace Eyerman
Ilona Ey I er
Robert Fa irburn
Glen Fa i rf ie ld
J . Ro derick Falconer
Reva Fa l e s
Edward Char l es r arewe 11
J ames Brueckne r Fari s
Charley Barney fa r mer
Howard Farmer
Howard v. Farr
Kenneth Ari ington F'aul
Edwin II, Fehr
I dabe I C. Fei 1 I ng
Doris Ellen Felder
George w. F'en irnore
Alice Ferguson
Keith R. Ferguson
J oaquin Ferr&i ;z
Clarence E. Ferrie!
John Clifford Finch
Frank Henry Finnen
John Fionin
Clarence C. Fischer
Reuben F ischer
Charle s D. Fisher
Henry O. Fisher
Iii 11 lam 11. Fi sher
Walla c e H. Fiske
~oe Barton Flager
11111 lam A. H. Fleischer
Ar l i e R. Fleming
Le s l ie ti. F l i n t
Jo hn James F luhr er
Bur l F luke
Walt er A. Folcke
Ml ldred Foley
John Fontana
Carl T. Foorman, Sr.
Arthur 11. Ford
Guy Henry Fort

Lai r d R. Fo rt
Iii 11lam F. Fo•bery
Iii 11 iam C. Foste r
waite r J. Fox
Giovanni Fracch i a
54Mfluel Cowden f r anc.is
Oen ton o• Nei I frank
El•e G. F rank
Frank II. Frank
Herry A. fr~ n k s
Theodo re R. F r azee
Charles w, Fr eeman
Samuel E. f reeze
L. Ross Fri chette
Earl Frog ner
Calvin Funk
Ha rry Rodman Gaba row
Clndy Lorraine Gale
George Gale
M. S. Gallaway, Sr .
John Ga I I oway
Edwa r d R, Gallup
I rme I Gandy
Dori s Ga rde
Sad ie Garde
!labe l Garrett
Durward E. Gass
Ma 1c.olm F rancis Gee
Phi I B. Gemne 11
Edwin J. Cen ter
Gl oria George
Joseph 11, Ger lach
Ze l ma Ger l icher
Geo r ge A, Ge r l inger
Bar r e Gersbache ..
Loui s L Chiott i
Cl in ton frwi n.C ibson
Iii I lard C. Gibson
Kermit R. GI lbreth
Willi am Smith Gi ll
George E. GI l patric
Hersc hell Gimpel
Raymond Girard
Keith Goins
Osca r G. Goldman
HI 11 Goldwate r
Charles C. Goodale
Jack Go r don
Minnie Gr ac: i e
Cl yde B. Gracie r
Nicholas 11 1tchel1 Gr a f
Roger Graham
Ve r da Graham
H, Vi ctor Gra nt
Nell 11. Grant
Roy Grant
Clyde C. Gray
Loui s E. Gr ay
Ro bert S. Gray
Wl ll i sO .Gray
Bennet t \Jarne r Gr een
ll l chael II. Green
Ruth Green
Hannie Greenberg
Benj amin T. Grego r y

Stephen NI cha las Gress
Frank Grl ffi th
Hurray H. Gr oves , Sr.
Theodore Gr ubac i ch
Fr ed M. Gu i ld
Gus Gunde r sen
Ragnar Gustafson
Gladys Waite Gut knech t
Amanda Guttormso n
Joseph P. Haas
Laurence Wi 11 i am Hacker
Eugene E. Hackman
E. Edwin Hagadone
Glenna Hagle
Hrs. Walter Haglund
Arnold E. Hahn
George Hahn
Lelah Haller
Mike Hall isey
Haye s Ha llock
Arthur Edward Hamb I In
Hal Willi s Harrm
Annie Hamrol I
Alber t II. Hand
Wi 11 i am J. H.!lnnah
Elme r O. Hansen
He rbert C. Hansen, Sr.
Jacob C. Hans en
Lucill e C. Hansen
Theodore R. Hansen
Jean Ne i I Hanson
Otto Hanush
Julius Harband
James Andrew H•rdi n
George Hargens
Arthur Haring
Henry 11 Hank11 Harmon
Betty Jo Harness
Fr ank Harris
Robert s. Harris, 111
Soni.!! Harris
Thoma s Lee Harri s
Edi th M, Harry
John Hart s horn
Estel le Har t wel 1
Sidney Playfai r Han1ey
Joel Aslan Hattam
Eli sa Hauser
Daniel F. Haworth
Blanche Haydahl
Cha r les A. Hayes
Leonard He.ath
J ame:s E. Heavens
C1ai re L. Heim
Anton M. Heinrich
Alice Held
C. Nei l Henderson
Gloria Hae Powe r s Hende.rson
J~~ !Ji I I i am Hender so n
Otto J . Hengst
John Hen r y Herman
Jesus R. Her nandez
Clyde C. Herrin
Albin Henry Herz
Karl F'rederick Hess

119

J. \J. Heuman
Ernest August Heyn
Fr ank E. Hicks, Sr.
Ivy Hietz
Ra l ph Wi nfie ld HI lbig
lies ley A. HI 11
Lloyd lewis Hi ller, Sr.
tlary R. Hi 11 i ard
Richard G. HI I I man
Rus sell Edward Hinckley
11111 lam T, Hobden
Robert Earl Hodge
Robert Steffen Hodges
Albert Hoff
Robin Hoffman
\Jalter Emil Hoffman
Frederick Hp Hohwiesner
George Wafter Holderness
Iii 11 iam J. Hole
Gladys Ho Ii han
Orin Ercel Holllngberry
Jane Holly
Al bert F. Hol"1er
Kathe r ine Holsclaw
RI chard A. Kood
Stewart H. Hook
Ernest Richard Hornby
John Hami I ton Horne I I
Ha r s ha f I Kennedy Hor ne r
A l ice Elsie Ho rwe9e
Leona r d Pau I Hot ton
Les I i e Howard
Cora Howe
Harry Howe
Merri 11 N. Howe
Norman J ohn Hubbenettl!'
Harold w. Huddleson
Howard H. Hudson
Herber t A. Huebner
Ho r- ace L. Huffman
Harry Hughes
Char l es O. Humphrey
J. T. Humphreys
Beemon Hunkapi lier
Dale Hun t
Henry Ma the w Hunt
11. L. Hunt
Dewey Hunte r
Paul Che s te r Hunter
Har old Huntsman
Adolph F. Hupfe I d
J o hn Garn Hu r st
Bel le Hushbeck
Jame s Cec.i I Huston
Har ol d H ~ Hutchison
Albert L . Hutsc hens
John lcardi
Albert John Ingr a..
Charles R. 1 r eton
Eugene t rwi n
Thoma s H. I s ley
Claudia v. lvanltsky
Willi am Ru s sell IZ.!rd
/la. I Jaber
Fred D. Jack son

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

120

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

121

MEMORI ALS (Con t inued)
MEHOR I ALS ( Con ti nued)

J•mes O. Jackson, Jr.

Joseph L. Kerr
Ge o rge Frede r i c k Ke r th
James R. Kidd
Hurvin Gu y Kidd

Lloyd M. Lay ton
Bruce V i nton Learner
Daisy J, Learmont

Thomas C. Hape 1
Gre go r y Ma r c hese

Fred Er cel l Mogle
Don E. Hohn

Carl Ledbette r
Edward Eugene Lee
WOng Shee Lee

James Ou9u I d 1'1 0 i r

A lbe r t Kiechl e
Leland Comings K i mball

Ha rry Harcum
Wi 11 iam 0. Ma rc us se n
Henry C.. Ma rku son

George L. Jepson

Cl a r enc e Kinc h

Dav i d Lenc hne r

Marinu s Frank Jepson

Bi lly Gene Kinder

£ I i zabe th Leonard

Annie Jacobs

Samue I

s. Jacobs

Haro ld James

James F. Jar r ett

Frederick F. Jense n
Bur r el I Jesse

' r ene King

Jane Le Ques ne

A l ec Jessiman

Mar shall Wi I bur King
J o hn A. Ki rby
Cuff y F. Kirk

Bill Le s l i e
Oren Edgar Lester
Jack Lev oke

A r t hur Joe 1
A 1fred Ni c ho 1 Johanson
Alf r ed B. J ohn son
Chalme r 0. Johnson

Diana Lee Johns on
Ear 1 Mi I an Johnson

Elmer Harvey Jonnson
Herbe rt Distin Johnson
I van Le roy Johnson
Jo hn T. Johnson
LeRoy Wa I fred Jo hn son
Ra I ph John son
Iii 11 a r d C. J ohnson
Debo r ah Luci 1 le Johns ton
McKenz i e St ewart Johns to ne

William W. Johns tone
A l bert E. Jones
David D, Jones
Earnest Lee Jone s.
F r ed w. Jones
J ame s H. Jone s

James J. Jones
Ne t t t e Jones
Rober t Ludwe 11 Jones
Roy G. Jone s
Kenneth M. Jopl i n
Edna Jopson
Howa r d Wi I' i am Jorda n
Do rot hy Joyce
Louis Ka de r a
John F. Kafka

William Carrol l K irkman

Ju lia Le vi n

J. c. Ki r kp atric k
0 en z i 1 O• Ki t che n s
Lansing S. Kitzml 1 l er
I. Helena Kl ei n
Jules 8. Kle in
Kenneth Car I Knab enshYh

Charle s D. Lewi s
Iii 11 iam D. Lewi s
Carl H, Li ebig
Lloyd Hi tGhGoc k l I esy
Rob ert o. LI nco ln
George Raymond L i ndah 1
Gordo n w. Li ndse y
He r ber t L. Li nd sley

Harry J . Kni ctn
Frederick Wi Iii am Kn igh t
Fl o ssie Kni s e

J a c k Howa rd Knox
John Knox
Regina ld L. Knox, Sr .
Jo rgen Knu tsen
Harold J. Koth
Norman Koern er
Lowe 11 A. Koont z

Fred Kopp
Harr y Kramer

Arnott E. Lowe
Ma 1 i n A. Lowe

Leo nard Kre i ger

Mi l d red A . Lowe
Wa I te r Lubchen ko
Thomas D, Luca s
George H. Luce
He 1vi n Lu 11
Rudo 1ph J, Lundquist
Byron Adon I s Lunds trom

Jo hn J , Krejc i
Mar i e Kr e stens en

Ar t hur H. Krue l l
Em i 1 Kruljac
Bruno Kuenneke
Arthur H. Kuku k
Charles L. Kyle

Axe l Kahn
Char les Kalaj ian
Mi I ton D. Kamle r

Martin Labe
Ade I i na P. Lacques
Howard D. Lagerqui s t

Albert Karle
Robe r t Karmele nski
Mrs , C. C. Ka r ne s
Andrew Kat onak

James Edwa r d Lake
Harold N. Lamb
Don C. La Mo i ne
Fr ank Charles Land i
Floyd Fred Lane
Oona ld E. Lan i er

Be r nar d Kaufman , Sr.
Jack Keagle
Wa I ter Cha r les Kees
Henr y J. Ke im

John P. II. Keir
Dona ld Everett Ke it h

Les lie E. Kell ogg
Edward J. Kelloway
Conrad J. Kelly
Luci Il e P, Kemp
Drada Kend a 1 l
Mr s . L. c . Kendri c k
A. L . Kenyon
Frank Ke ple
J u l i a Keple
J os eph II, Kern
Fr ank L

Kerr

Rox i e Li nton

C. Ly do n Lipp i nco tt
Clif for d Jay Li shm an
Nichol as James L l t ras
Cha rle s L. Ll o yd
Bradly F. Lockwood
Bruce Lombl!lrd
Vernon A. Look
Samue 1 Loube
Ri cha rd Ra 1ph Low

Cl i ft on Eugene Kno f f
Wi 11 i am F. Knowlond

J ohn All an Lan s den
Gerald Lantz
E rnest Edga r la r sen
Virginia Larsen
Robert Preston Larson

Mabel L. La sni k
George V. Latham

Ivy C. Lattimore
Robert 8 . Law
Dan Lawr ence

Geor ge Ma r ti n
Joseph Ha son
I v an Donn i e Mas se y

Haro l d P. Mat hews
Al be rt L. Hay
Lou i s Ma y
Homer Haye s
Ken McCas Ii n
En i d HcCaw

John C. McClell a nd
Cl arence McClusky
Iii 11 i am McC lymont
Sarnue 1 A. Mc Cu s h
John Mccutcheo n
Wi 11 iam Hugh McCu t c heon
Bruc e McOo na I d
Effi e McDo nald
Kenne t h Ma lcol m McDona l d
\la 11 ace Lee McOona 1d
C1a rence Norman Hc Oowe l 1
Mary Hc E 1r oth
Kat f'"i na McGi 11
Lew i s He r be r t McKinne y
LeRoy McKissi ck, Sr.

Knut A. Lund s trom

Lul u HcKn i gh t
Cha r Jes l"icHenus
Wallace Bradfor d McMi l l an
Howard Mctl i 1 I eo
Bess Mcvey
lli n f red Cl y de HGWh i nney
Huie K. Head
William Me ago r

Jonathon Park Lunney

Aud re:y H e i e r

James Morg an Lupher

Henry L. Mein ker
Sam He 1gard

A 1be r t Lupo r i
Ralph w. Lusby
Lloyd C. Lynde
Da v id Ly nn

t1ary Lynn
Re i ne Lyn n

Roy Lynn
J ohn Henry Hocco r ke 1J
J ohn O. MacD o nald
Donovan V in cent Ma c kay
Leslie H. MacHullen
Carmen Ma fus i e

Guy t1a 9gart
Frede ri c k J. Ha hr
John Her man Ma i 11 i ng
Norma n F. Ma i n

F ra nk A. Lawry
o. R, Lawyer

Char Jes Make r
Roland E. Malouf
Stanley A. Mann
Ch ar l e s Manning

Pear l Lawyer
Erne st Lay t on

Charle s O. Manue I

Edward Law r ence

James G. Ha r s ha 11
Lo ckwoo d Ha rsha I !
Lucy My r t le Marsha l l

Jame s Thoma s Mansour

Laberta Mendes
Ceci I Leonard Merri fi el d
Lor ra i ne Me r se rea u
Blair S. Mertes
George Edwa rd He t he r a l 1
Carl F. Heye r
Harry P. Heyer
F r eder ick M, ti I ch ae 1
Ri chard A. Micke l
Leslie Be l mont Mickell
Edwa rd L. Mi cZanko
Samue l Arthur Hl le s
F l orence Hi Il er
Frank Har tin Miller
Fred H. Hi ller
Hugh B. Hi 1 ler
Merri t t Hi I l s
Ra y F.Mi l lsap
Edgar Ta ylor Hi s p l ey
A. W. Hi tchel 1
Carma le ta Mi t c he l 1
R. E. Mi tt e l st aed t

A. B. Mo ntoya
Ruth Hari e Moody
Ni na Moon
War r e n Eugene Mooney

Ceci I C. Hoo r e
El i zabeth Hoare
Ral ph Moor e
Ce c l I Ross Mo r gan
E!me r W. Mor gan
Geor ge L. Morgan
Hen r y Mor gu e

A. Henry Mo rr is
Edwa rd A. Horris
Li I li an Morri s
Pau 1 0. Morse
Samue I F. 8 . Mors e
Rudo 1ph H, Mortens en

Ed1Ja rd G, Olmst ed
E1 I zabe t h O1son
Eugene H. OI son
Haro ld L. Ol son
Iii l li am H. Olson
Albert O' Ma l l ey, J r .
Edga r w. Ott o
Alf r ed L. Overs t r ee t
Harold Keith Owen
Gl l be r t L. Owens
Harcus Palml ea f
Ange l o s Pa pu 1 i as
Oona I d Pa r ee
\.I i I der Fr an k 1 i n Pa rk
Bo r i s 0, Parker
Opa I Parker
Joseph "Ni ck 11 Parke s
Ne i I H. Parsons

Raymond Fo r d Horton
Hat t i e Kose r
Ern est R. Mos ley

John E. Pa t erson
Charl es E. Pa tto n
Wi 11i am Pau 11
Henr y A. Pau 1 son
RI Gha r d C. Pau 1 son. Jr.
No rman G. Pea r s on

De rw in Chl!lr l e s Moss

Stl!ln tey Penning t on

S. C. Mugfo r d, J r .
John Lo ui s Hu 11 er
Char Jes Munro

Jl!I Spe r Pe rki ns

Elme r Hin ton Kor timer

Lawrence

E.. Muntz

F. B. "Tim" Murphy
Iii 1 Ji am Cha r Jes Hu r phy
I ta I i ano Muse t t i
Arthur B. Mus toe
Eugene J. My er s

Howa r d R. Hye r s
Wi l l iam L. Hagle
Gus Iii 11 i am Nank e
He r bert H. G. Nash
James Nay l o r
An ton 8. Ne l son
El me r T, Ne l son
Ca I me r Ness a
Sert T, Nevi I le

Jean Newton
J e r ry Cl ay Ni cho l s
Hauri c.e 6. Nicho l s
No rman F. N i c ke l

Hazel R. N I Ion
Phy ll is Nissen
Raymo nd H. Ni vare I
Fr ank Hobie
Margare t W, Noe
Jacob Emanuel No rd bye
Ed No r r i s
Har ry Nor ri s

Wi 11 i am Ka rl man Nos sen
Victor C.. Navarin o

Edwa r d My ron Nunes
Emo r y 0 1 8an i on
Opa I Obe rgefe 11
El!lllet t O' Br ien
A l fred Od le
Fred J. Oehle r
Ga r y Oli ve r
H. A l ! an Oliver

I rene U. Pep i er
Har ry H, Pe r l
Ju l ius Pe r lof
Ha r r y L. Perr y
Lo ui s 0. Perry
V i na l K. Pe t e r s
August Pe te r son
Car I Pe t e r s on
Harry C. Pe t e r son
Pau l Hae Pe te r son
To la Pe tt y
M. M, Phi ll i ps
Howa r d C, Ph i pps
Norman Pi I l s bu r y
Henry L. Pinge l
Al f re d L. Piser
Donald Oick Pitman
James L. Pixley
Curti s Plo tt
Ever ett Plumer

Rober t L . Paean
Har r y Edward Pol lar d
Geo rg e Pon t e
Osca r C. Pope
Emanu l J. Por tello
Howard Porte r

Ma rtha Jo Porterfiel d
J oseph E. Potten ge r
Re id C. Po tt er
James G. Powe 11
Ramona Powe r
w; I bur L. Powe r s

Hudson L. Pr att
Dan ie l Oe si derius Prensn e r

Mer 1 Os we 11 Pres t on
WI 11 i am Hen r y Price
Wa tson Ou ty Pr itchard
Frank Hal f o rd Pr itt i e
Car l W. Pr une r

122

PROCEEDINGS O F TH E

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

123

MEHORIALS (Co nti nued)
llEllORIALS (Continued)
Rich a rd G•orge Quehl
El I a Qui ncke
Iii 11 iam Quinvi 1 le
Lewis D. Radel i ff
Ray C. Raddant
Hax Rad• tsky
Ea r l Raft• ry
August F. Rah I ves
George E. Rahm
A1 i ce Raitt

Elizabeth Russel l
Ii i II is L. Russe ll
Harold L . Rust
Thomas Ruther fo rd
Cloud 0, Ru tter
Roy J. Ry an
p. c. 11 Pet e " Sacchi
Harry B, Said
Edward Percy Sailor

Fornatos H. Rampton

II rs. Ila 11y Sbnde r son

Nate Ramp ton

Henry w. Sandrock

Opa 1 Ru th Rains tead
Wi 11 i am 11. Rand I e
llo rt h Rando lph
George Raw I ins
Leo F. Re a d
11y ron G, Reed
Cli f f Reid
Ralph L. Rensh""'
Chesley Lynn Reyno Ids
Frbnk H. Reynolds, Sr.
Be'nityn Arthur Ric.e
Phebe H. Ri c•

Guido Santuc.c.i
Kalmen Y. Sapero

Charles Ri chardson

Fred J. H. Rickon
Ve rnon Riddle
Alv in Ri d l ey
Albe r t o . Rie r
August H. Riess
Fred Riley
Cadwe ll Rine
F ritz Rinkleib
Lynne Jay Roac he
Ro be r t David Robe rt s
Tic Roberts
Zac hu l ah Al ! en Roberts
Joseph Robe rt son
Su t terf le Id Robertson
Mo r ri s II. Robin
Fred L. Rob I ns on
Henry Robinson
George N. Rodg• r s
t\el vl n C. Rodgers
Allen C. Roediger
llary Roge r s
Nora Ro ggy
G«!'o rge J. Roma 1eotes
Haurice

o. Romick

Edi th Roome
Richard II. Rop• s
Stephen Rose
Benjami n Ri nggold Rose berry
Burt C,

Ross

Davi d Roth
Harg it Rott
Dean Rou I an d
Bonn ie Roule tte
Roy A. Roush
Robert R. Ruchti
Louis H. Ru cker
Wil liam V, Ruff
Iii 11 iam F. Rumpf
Sophie E. Rundquist

John Preston Runi on

Lester Saunders

Simon Sher
Mrs. Simon Sher
Leland M. Sherman
Lucena Hal I Shields
Albert Shie l s , Jr.
Blanche M. Shoemaker
Estle L. Shomaker
He I ena Showa I ter
Ha r r y G, Shu,.,..ay
John S idebottom
George S iege nfuss
Fred J ohn Si I k
0, S i<mJOns
Car l Ash bu ry Simpson
Clarence E. Simpson
Doug I as Simpson

Sally Saunders

A l exander Ha l co lm Sinclair

Thomas C. Scan I on

Dorothy Si ncl air
Abra ham B. Si rbu
Stbnl•y Si s ka
Robert E. Ski I Iman
R. Lou Is Skinner

Re intia rd A. Sa nder

Jesse Earl Sargent

Truman E. Scarlett
Darlene Schaefe r

Helvin J . Schallock
Ii i 11 iam c. Scha r f
8e rdi ne Schee I a
Linus A. Schefers
Etta Schei le
Robe rt Sche i le
Pa u l Harrison Schenberger

Wes l ey A. Schinrnelpfenn i g
Da l las Schj rmer
Bernga rd "Ben" H. Sctvn i dt
Max Schmid t
George Charle s Sch r ader
Bonni e Jean Sch rimche!r'

Harold C, Schrode r
Arthur H~ Schroeder'

Ed Schubert
Earl c. Schultz
Walter W. Schu lt z
Will Schultz
Ernest Schunk
Hennan Schwartz. Sr .

Paul S. Schwart z
Floyd Scocchio
w. w. Scott
Wayne J. Seabourne
I .. Brent Searway
Andr'ew D. Sebring

Jane See I y
Ludwig Seibel
James Kerlin Self
Da vi d P. Sewe II
George H. Shadinger
James Shafer

Abr a ham Shap i r o
Vi ctor T. Shattock
Al bie Shaw
Fred C. Shedw i 11
Howa rd H. Sheet s

Helen She~ell
II i II i am CI adst one She I don
Jos eph Ll eb Shel I
Ne II She II
Thomas P. She I ton
Ceorge A. Sheltren
C. M, Sheppard

Fl oyd H. Steele
Leo Home r Stein
J ohn Iii 11 i am Sten Jund
Edwa rd A. Stephens
Wa 11 ace L. Stephens
Otto J, Stevens
Ri cha rd R. S tevens
Almon O. S tevenson
Ter'esa S tevenson
t1e rbef"t He rman St ewart

Henry H ~ Turner

George Ad""' Uhl
Fre d Le o Uh r ig
J ohn Car I Uhte
George \J . Urnbenhaur

Con Upham
James Roy Urq uhar t
John R, Uts ler
Clem llallace Vail
Cha r l es Van
F r e d Van
John P. Vance

Cha r le s Hu rr a y St i Jes
Lem uel Elme r Stine
Robe r t E rnest Stoc kwell
Jerry Strick l and
Do r o thy St ri ck le r
Neil le 11. St r ite
Kade Stuart
E""'a Stum p
JM1e s Spencer Su 11 i van
Nichola s S. Su.,,,ers
Fred R. Swartz, Sr.
Le land Sweeney
Il l riam Swee t
Theodore C. Swi enty
Harr y H. Tcwnagn i
George N. Tannlund
Will i am J. Tatti, Sr.
Fred G. Taylor, Jr.
Robe rt Taylor
J e hanne Te I ford
HI I I ie Tenni s
J ose ph A. Teres i
Nea ly Thomason
WI 11i am G. Thomason

en.er Ea rl Wa lke r
Wi ll i a m Howa rd Wa Iker

Hal s te ad Hu nter Th0tnasson

Edward Francis Wa 11

Ha zel Wall a ce
Ha r l i n Clar k lla l sh
Ca r l Edward Wa lthe r
Rob er t A. Wampler

Roy Gr" ham Songer
Sor'en P. Soren sen
Ma r y Ann Sorenson

Alan R. ThOfllpson
Edwa r d Pevey Thompson
Fre d H. Tho mps on •
Lynn I. Thompson
Robert K. Thompson
He rb• rt Eml I ThOflls
Aks• I Kobu r 9 Tho"1sen
Danie I R. Thomson
D• I la Thor nton
Edwa r d Howard Tho r sc h
Joseph Est I i ck Thurston
Ha r r y B. Tibbett s

Ea r l So r r e 11 s
Drvi I l e w. Sorrel ls

Annie T i I ton
Minnie Jane Tinch

Joe Sparac ino

Clarence E. Tindall
"aurice 11Jim" Todd
01 i ver J. Todd
Fr a nk Raymond Tolf
Dona ld A. Tompkins
Frank Ernest Tompkins
Tracy H. Totten
Aar on Ca leb Tow

Rees Sk.i nne r

Stan I ey Skinner
Beulah llorld Skipton
Chbrl•s K. Slack
Ha r ry G. Slaff
Hope E. S laght
Wi I I lam H. S lo a n
Char l es 0, S ly field
John wi I I i am Sma I I i ng
Ann a J, Smi t h
Edward Sm i th
Fre d G. Smith
Harol d Smith
Hedley H, Smith
Le o A, Sm it h
Ha tt Smit h
Oscar Smit h
Richard E, Smith
Mrs. Wll l iam Bud Smith
William Mel bury Smith
William H. Snyder

Frbnk E. Speere
Robert Earl Spence
CI arence Spenc.e r
Herbert Spencer
Henning A. Sperring

Jos e ph L. Spiegelman
El s ie Sp i ri
P ratt CeVoo Sprague
ll rs. R. J. Sprague
William Squair
Oora Squires
Leona rd C. Stace
Ric hard II, St al l ard. Jr.
Me l vin O. Stanley
Merl e P. S t arke
Er ne s t J. Steele

A l i c e Towne
Geor9e E. Towner , Jr.
C. R. 11 8ob 11 T racy

Van All en Treat
Pearl Trinde l
Zora Truesdale
McK inley O. Tub bs
L. J . Tuft s
Add ison N. Turner

Ha rdwick L. VanOegri f t
Hal Ha r tin Va nder Voort

Barney McC oy Van F l eet
J ohn David Van Lane
Samuel Dallas Van Heter
Howa rd L . Van Ord en

Sharon EI i zabeth Vass al o
Eve I yn Vaughan
Ludd J . Vcella
Hild red Veit
Berg i t te Vi be
Henry Madison Vickl!r y
Wayne C. Vi nney

Leo Vollowi t z
Jaspe r von Spree.ken
Frank Voss

Cl a yton J. Wade
E l mer L, Wagenknech t

F r ed H. Wa Iker
Lo uise Walke r

Harr y Ward, S r .

Claude Ra ymond Warde I I
Enrna I i ne wa r' r'en
Orvi 1 le Washbur' n

J. Stanl e y Wat kins
Albert Henry Wbt son
Clyde Wa tson , Jr.
Maynard R. Wat son

A9nes Wa y
Oona Id F. Way
Al Weaver
tore o D. Weaver

Jos e ph I/ebb
Leonard R, We be r
Gladys llable l/eckedey
Henry C. Wedemeyer
Thomas J. Weed
Wa lter P.. We i di ngl!f"

Ha ry Welch
Wi II iam ~. Well ons
Lo!-man S. We II s
George E. Wendt
Frank We s t

Ralph Weymou t h
Les t e r K. Whea t
Charles Andre!W Whee1e i

Isobe l Wheele r
Ear le H. White
Geo r ge A. White
Harry L . \Jhite

Cha rl e s J. Whi t i ng
\Jein or

W. Wi ander

Lynn Wi gg i ns
Or a Edwar d Wi ghtman
Leonar d E. Wi I bu r

II. W. Iii leox , J r .
Gary Ii i l er
Ri chard Wi l ke nson
Annette A. Wi lliams

Ca r l eton Cab l e Williams
Do uglas Ri c ha r d Wi 11 i ams
Elme r J enni ngs Wi 11iaims
George Wi 11 i ams
James H. Wi 1 f i ams
John Pau I Iii II i ams
Ro bb ie Iii 11 i ams
Dave \Ji I J iamson
A lbert a \/ills
Charles o. Wilson
Li II i a n Iii Ison
Pav I Ben Wi 1son
Robe rt Iii I son
Wi 11 iam J . Wi Ison
Virgil Windb ig ler
Worsl e y G. Wins t on
Ceorge H. Winter , Jr.

Edwa rd L. Iii s e le y
Dav id L. llolf
Horace Eng Ii sh \lo I fe
Horace Luthe r WO I fe

Arthu r A. wood
Lesl i e Ea rl Wood
Victor T. llood
WI II i am Robe r t l/ood
Clem•nt S . Woods
Jack L. Woods
Pe u I A. lloods, S r .
Hi I lard L. Woodson
An na Woody

L. Wo r ce ster
Har ry Andr'ew Wr ight

Howard

Jby Lamar wr ight
Minnie Wr ight

He II E, "Peggy" Wri gh t
Phena Wr ight
Hae. And rew \Jrona

L. Harcel I/ rube I l e
01 i ver C. Wyman
Everett E. Wy song
Osca r George Yaeger

Bra dford Ya l e
Frank Yeffa
Charles R. Young
G. Everett Youn g

George Young
Les Ii e II. Young
Shirley Young
J oseph o. Yo un t
Eve r e tt e Ze ig l er

Cl ifford G. Zeliadt
~ew to n

R. Zobe I

124

PROCEEDIN (IS OF THE

REPO RT OF CONTRIBUTIO NS TO ENDOW\1ENT FuND
*Denotes Hunor Roll
1974 Participation Avg.
1974
1973
1974
G ift
Members %
Contrib.
Mem bership C'ontrib.
Lodge
No.
4.71
36
3
11
1,481.00·
1.450.50
314
..
.............
I California
2 . 17
37
94
548 .50
543.50
252
2 Western Star .. .. ...... . ...
6 .40
76
530
4 .437 .50•
3,856.50
693
3 Tehama . ...... .. ...... . .
5. 15
67
154
1,184.50*
1.441.00
230
5 Benicia .... .... .. , ......
37
2.28
121
747.00
658.00
327
.......
.
.
.
.
....
8 Tuolumne
3.50
32
119
1,309.00•
1.232.00
374
9 Corinthian ............. ..
5.85
51
228
2.642 . 79•
2.209.00
-HI
10 San Jose . .... . ......... . .
3.55
51
253
l,768.66*
497
1.6 15.00
12 Yount . ........ . . . ... .. ..
3.63
65
150
839.50*
709.50
231
D Nevada . ......... . ......
4.05
53
170
1.290.00•
1,271.00
318
14 Temple ........... . .....
3.82
37
153
1,576.00•
1.705.83
412
16 Eureka . ............. ... .
4.46
55
48
388 .25*
302.00
87
17 La Parfaite Union . ........
4.42
34
68
221.00•
114.00
50
I!! !\.fountain Shade . ..... ....
4.14
46
296
2,676 .00*
2,325.50
646
19 San Joaquin ..............
5.17
45
337
3,898.50*
3,796.85
753
20 Washington .......... . ...
5.00
51
17!!
I. 731.00*
346
1.895.00
21 Hawaiian . ' .......... ....
3. 59
35
143
1,472 .50*
1.888. 50
410
22 Occidental ............. ..
2.07
47
156
684 .50
693.16
330
23 Madison . ............. ...
3.68
74
142
712 .05*
603.25
193
24 Mariposa . .. . .... . .......
4 .24
62
49
335. t 7•
344.00
79
25 Georgetown ....... ... ....
3. 18
37
120
.25•
1.021
1.120.00
321
.....
.....
.....
26 El Dorado
3. 13
51
80
489. 75•
627.50
156
27 Trinity ............. . .. • .
5.03
61
300
2.467 .75*
2.429.50
490
30 Golden Gate Speranza ......
3.43
58
69
409.00•
322.98
119
32 Gold Hill .............. ..
3.98
54
70
518.50*
481.00
130
33 Ophir . .. ... ..... .... .. ..
4 .97
52
581
5,508.00*
4,781.73
1108
35 San Diego .......... . ... .
3.70
54
143
977.00*
903 .50
264
37 Howard . . ... . ......... . .
3.02
46
234
1,531.60*
1.594.33
507
)!I Santa C ruz . ... .. ... . ... ..
5.43
58
399
3.769.00*
3.391.50
691
40 Sacramenw ...... . ... .. ..
3.89
83
292
1.370.35*
1.421.15
352
41 Maninez .... . . . ........ .
15.66
83
961
18.095 .44*
13,482 .50
1155
42 Los Angeles . . ............
4 .76
53
88
785.50*
639. 50
165
43 Hiram ...... . ....... . ...
3.41
71
33
725.00•
739.00
212
44 Mount Moriah .......... • .
4.01
57
11 3
790.50*
681.50
197
45 Crescent ..... . ....... . . ..
2.00
50
37
148.00
93.00
74
46 Texas ...... .. .. . ...... ..
4 .67
69
103
oo•
697
723.75
149
.
.
...
.
........
Forbestown
50
3.49
69
48
244.50*
266 .50
70
5 1 lllinois town ............. .
4.50
51
IM
1,436.63*
l ,243 .64
319
55 S uisun ............. .....
2.57
32
47
383.00
432 .50
149
56 Volcano ........ . ...... . .
4 .79
82
521
3.033 .50 *
2.908.00
632
57 Santa Rosa .. . ....... . ....
4.19
57
312
2,316.00*
2.446.00
552
58 Union ...... .. ....... . ...
3.01
32
35
328.50*
344.00
109
59 Gravel Range . .. ..... .. ...
4.00
62
102
656 .00*
535.75
164
60 Plumas ......... . .. . .....
5.57
30
202
3,764.08*
2 ,721.00
675
61 Live Oak ..... .. ... . .... .
4 .05
52
2 13
1.669.00*
1.670.25
412
64 Natoma ..... . . .. .... . ...
3. 40
65
68
35 7 .50*
3 16.50
105
65 Amador ... ... ....... . . . .
3. 11
76
434
I. 771.60*
1.937.00
569
68 Morning Star . . ......... . .
3.42
46
167
1,255.00•
1.235.50
.
.
....
366
...
...
...
Enterprise
70
3.41
JO
25
280.00*
295.50
82
76 Bear Mountain ............

GRA~D l.ODCiE OF CALIFORNIA

125

1973
C'ontr ib .

19 74
Cont rib .

1974 Partkipatio n Avg.
Gi ft
Me m ber~ 'fr.

586 .00
1,345.CXJ
549. !Xl
352.lXl
30J.OO
3,502.IX)
309.50
164.50
58K .OO
650 .50
346.<Xl
976.00
440.IXl
1.782.25
2.274.63
1.30 1.UO
1.092.!!6
J,923.00
23 1.17
2.062 35
l.615.50
3.064.00
720.50
883.50
1.017.25
744.97
0.00
1,837 .85
497 .00
732.00
243.00
1.413.00
321.00
1,52!!.00
2. 169.75
456. 25
111.00
649.()(l
1,26 1.50
347.00
82 1.50
1.229.00
269.50
463.57
865.52
67.00
83.00
1.885. 00
2.058. 74
2.870.50
2.128 .50
707 .50

473 .50*
1.681.IX)•
6-ll .50*
352.00"
268 .60
.l .615.!Xl•
297.()()•
312 .()(J•
492 . .50*

1974
No.

Lod!!e

M cmbc r ~hip

78 Calavera> .. ........ • .....
79 Humt>o l<lc . ... . .. . . . .. . ..
80 lone ... ...... . ........ . .
81 Yolo . . . . ...... ... ..... .
84 Ve,per . . . . .. . ... . .......
87 Na, al .... ..... ... ... ....
89 Rose·, Rur ...... . . .. . ....
91 Nonh Suir .... ... .. . .. ...
93 St. Helena ...... .. ...... .
95 Henry Clay .... . . . . ......
98 Homitos . . .... . . .... . . . . .
99 Yosem ite .. . . . .... . .... ..
101 Clay ..... . . . . • ...... . ...
103 Oroville . . ... ... ... .. .. ..
104 Lexington . . ... . .... . ....
106 Ari: ata ... . .... .. . ..... ..
110 Pajaro ...... .. .... .. ....
111 Chku . . .. . .. . ..... . . ....
112 Summit ..... . . . . . . . .....
113 Eden . . .. ... . . . . . ..... ..
117 Concord ... . ..... .. .... . .
120 fidelity . .... .... .... . . ..
122 Alamo . ..... . .. . . . .. . . ..
123 Sotoyomc ............. ..
124 Table Mountain ..... . .. . ..
126 La Fay.:ttc .. .. . ... .... . . .
127 Hermann ......... .. .....
128 Visalia .. .... .. . . . . .. ... .
129 Nicolaus ..... . ..........
13 1 Woodbridge . , .. . ... . ... .. .
132 Sincerity ..... . ... . ... . ..
134 Vacaville . . .. . ...........
135 Valle y ........... . .. . ...
136 Lebanon- Pacific . .. ......
139 Park-Crockett . . ... . .. .. .
140 Curtis ... ...... . .... .... .
141 Grafton ... . .... ... . .....
143 franklin ... .......... . ...
144 Oriental ..... . .. . , ... ....
145 Vitruviu' .......... ......
146 Abell .......... ... ... ...
147 Eel River . . . ..... . , ......
149 Lassen . . . . .... .. .. . .....
150 Molino . .... ..... .... ... .
156 Woodland .. ...... . . . .. . .
161 Keystone .. . ... . .........
164 Harmony . . . . . ........ . . .
166 San Francisco ... .. .... . ..
167 Alameda . .... . ..........
168 Redwood City .. .. ... . ....
169 Mission . .... .. ... . . . .. ..
173 Elk Grove ... . . . . .. . . . ...

12K
444
102
K9
241

K92
99
104
117
94
105
459
97
35K
585
299
347
569

KR
409
314
561
453
222
41 3
215
132
49!!
141
203
79
304
99

697
565
90
92
119
232
110
319
252
208
138
3 11
49
31
5-19
382
5X6
435
157

665.oo•
487 .46*
730.()()

448 .:'iO*
1.210.50*
2,276.24*
1.307. oo•
1.397 .5 1*
2.226.00*
245.26
2.4 18.55*
1.376.5()•
J . .u;.i.oo•
1,546.20*
1,040.75*
1.340.50*
661.50*
1.002. oo•
1.577.62*
488.00*
751.00*
232.00
1.352 .00*
256.00
1.505.00
2,346.99*
501.50*
114 .00
554 .92•
1.251.50•
400.00•
753.00
1,364.oo•
270.00
358.50
82300
158.00*
93.00*
2.360.oo•
2.152.00*
J.044.75•
1.637.so•
769.56*

71
228
90
71
5{)
450
56
39
72
63
67
85
61
295
194
299
181
457
36
245
189
366
168
166
314
87
153
217
72
106
79
18 1
15
197
228
58
24
57
106
77
94
141
30
54
142
26
JI
288
163
282
176

KK

55
51
KK

xo
21
50
57
38
62
67
64
19
63
le!
3J
l lXl
52
XO
41
60
60
65
37
75
76
40
100
44
51
52
100
60
15
28
40
64

26
41!
46
70
29
56
14
39
46
53
100
52
43
411
40
56

3.69
3.78
6.28
3. 95
I. I I
4 .05
J.(XJ
3 .00

-UO
7.07
4 .64
1.59
4 .62
3.38
3.89
4 .37
4 .02
3.91
2.78
5.91
4 .38
6 . 17
3.41
4.68
3.24
3.07
7 .59
3 . 16
3.46
3 .69
2.93
4 .44
2 .58
2 . 15
4.15
5.57
1.23
4 .66
5.39
3.63
2.36
5.41
1.29
2.59
2.64
3.22
3.00
4.29
5.63
5. 19
3.76
4 .90

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1973
1974
Membership Contrib.
Lodge
185.50
64
174 Drytown . .... . ... . . . . .. .
1,253.50
369
175 Antioch .. ........ ... ....
2,534.75
641
178 Phoenix . .. . . .. ........ . .
207 .00
85
179 Mendocino .. ......... . ..
834.00
301
180 Petaluma ... .... .. ... ....
654.00
123
181 Russian River . . ... . . .... .
201.00
65
182 Arbuckle .. ... . ........ . .
125.50
180
183 Clear Lake .... . ... ... ... .
137 .00
84
184 Sierra Valley ... ......... .
233.82
77
185 Claiborne .... . .. .. . . ... ..
66.00
73
186 Evening Star .... . ... ... ..
153.00
166
187 Keith ....... . .......... .
1,817.50
499
188 Oakland .... .. .... .. .... .
384.00
116
190 Northern Light ........... .
2,856.50
433
191 Marin . .... . . ..... .......
2,490.00
351
192 Santa Barbara . ..... .. ... .
242.00
82
193 Ferndale ..... . . . ... . ... ..
1,688.00
392
194 Mountain View . .. ... .... .
319.50
112
195 Buckeye .... .. .......... .
301.00
102
196 San Simeon .. .... . . .... . .
2,932.28
568
198 Wilmington .... .. ... ... ..
332.25
258
199 Hartley . ... ... ... .. .. ·· ··
482.50
120
200 Truckee . ..... . ...... . ...
418.50
133
201 Silveyville .... . .... .. ... .
2,850.00
303
202 Pentalpha .. .... .... . .. ...
265 .00
111
203 Confidence . . ...... ......
l,825.00
530
204 Salinas .... .. ..... . .... ..
367.15
134
205 Olivet . . .. .. .... .. . .. . .. .
1,169.00
550
206 Stanislaus . .... .. ... .. ...
1,858.35
512
207 Anaheim ... . ..... .. .... .
523.25
159
208 Rio Vista ....... ..... . ...
1,127.00
380
209 King David's ... .. .. .... ..
2,233.00
597
210 Friendship . ... ... . .......
439.50
156
211 San Benito . . .......... ...
910.50
221
212 South San Francisco .......
2,204.60
426
214 San Buenaventura .........
2,159.00
422
215 Oak Grove .. ... . .........
1,327.73
0
216 Doric . .... .. ... .. .......
951.50
254
217 Monterey ...... . ... ......
1,034.00
321
218 Mosaic ......... .... . ....
3,356.58
640
220 Downey ... .. .... .. .... ..
484.00
128
221 Inyo .......... . .. . .. ··.·
1,815.00
549
222 Roseville ... . .... .. .... ..
1,993.75
629
224 Bakersfield .. . .. ... ... ...
846 .50
289
225 Brooklyn ....... .... . ....
2,454.50
520
226 San Mateo . .. .... .. .... . .
664.75
195
228 Athens . ...... .. .. ... .. ..
802 .00
376
229 Solano . . . .. .. .... .. .....
783.00
306
230 North Butte . .............
36.00
60
231 Covelo .. . . ..............
429.00
131
232 Janesville ....... .... .. . ..
358.00
106
233 Calistoga . .. .......... .. .

No.

1974 Participation Avg.
Gift
Members%
1.99
28
18
127 .50
2.01
39
144
742.60 '
3.76
59
377
2,414.95*
3.42
44
37
291.00*
3.82
61
184
1,150.00*
5 .46
70
86
672 .50*
2.97
28
18
193 .50
1.71
29
53
308.50
1.07
8
7
90.00
3.02
34
26
233.00*
0.50
10
7
37 .00
1.78
24
40
296.00
3.00
27
133
l ,501.00*
3 .75
51
59
436.00*
6 .98
66
286
3,024.00*
7.26
56
196
2,550.00*
2.84
49
40
233 .00
5.33
64
249
2,093.20*
2.75
58
65
309.00
3.76
54
55
383 .75*
5.43
50
285
3,089.90*
1.37
33
85
354.50
3.45
36
43
415 .00*
3.83
63
84
509.50*
12.77
51
155
3,870.00*
2.67
100
115
297 .00
3.69
58
307
1,957.50*
3.34
54
72
448.00*
1.81
15
80
999.50
3.68
40
204
1,886.70*
3.77
60
96
600.00*
2.79
48
182
1,060.75
1.97
21
128
1,178.50
0 .00
0
0
0.00
4.31
47
103
952.75*
5.30
52
220
2,260.00*
6 .97
57
241
2,942.00*
consolidated
4.15
43
110
1,056.00*
3.00
44
140
963.00*
5.42
29
185
3,470.22*
4 .46
69
88
572.00*
4.81
53
292
2,642.75*
3.05
28
179
1,923.16*
3.33
30
88
962.50*
3.54
33
170
1,842.00*
3.26
45
88
636.50*
1.36
17
64
514.70
3.30
76
234
1,011.30*
0.76
17
JO
46.00
4.24
66
87
556.00*
3.69
56
59
392.00*
1974
Contrib.

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA

127

1974
1973
1974
Lodge
Membership Contrib.
Contrib.
93
282.00
266.00
234 Hope .. .. .. . .. ...... . ...
96
82.00
50.00
235 Surprise Valley ...........
152
641.50
236 Hills Ferry ... . ...........
637.00*
271
1,024.00
1,147 .50*
237 Guadalupe .. .... .........
153
98.00
272 .00
240 Colusa ......... . ........
524
241 Santa Ana .... . .. . .......
2,877.28
2,785.08*
562
3,256.00
3,324.50*
242 Magnolia .... . . .. .. .. ... .
495
1,460.50
2,357 .00*
243 Eucalyptus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
357
1,060.39
897.00
244 Alcatraz ............. ....
199
743 .00
245 Laurel .......... . ..... . .
740.50*
372
l,401.87
1,906.81*
246 Pomona . .... ... ... .. ....
564
1,439.00
247 Fresno ........ . .. . .... . .
1,030.50
156
385.00
248 Alturas . .......... .... .. .
311.60
90
0.00
92.00
250 Adin .. .. .... .. ... . ......
97
129.00
253 Landmark .......... . ... .
141.50
372
752.50
254 Reading ....... . .........
955 .00
196
255 Welcome .... ... ... .... ..
322.50
438 .50
256 Lodi. ............. ... ...
376
1,276.50
1,181.00*
142
258 Penrhyn ..... .. ..... . ....
506.78
379.00
259 Evergreen ... ... . ...... . .
613
3,789.28
3,784.12*
260 King Solomon's Seaport . ...
431
1,548.50
1,444.00*
261 Tuscan . ..... .. ..........
74
100.00
159.00
262 Lompoc . . ..... ... ... ... .
382
1,204.50
1,230.66*
264 Hesperian .. ........... ..
430
2,142.50
2,309.50*
265 Orland ............. . ....
171
562.60
686.50*
267 Galt ............. .......
108
560.50
575 .50*
268 Durant ... ............. ..
230
1,019.00
1,180.00*
269 Olive Branch .............
246
330.00
284.00
271 Snow Mountain ...... . ....
143.00
46
106.00
272 Pasadena ............. ...
393
2,253.12
2,055.86*
273 Anchor .. . .. . . ~ - .. . ......
438
2,527.90
2,907.30*
274 Arroyo .. . . . ... ... ... . ...
229
874.00
l, 135 .64*
275 Oakdale . ..... . ..........
218
641.00
742.99*
277 Selma ... ... . .... ... . ....
190
458 .00
383 .00
278 Southern California ........
264
3,588.84
3,061.50*
279 Hanford . ............. ...
209
557.00
375.00
280 Madera . ............. ...
245
745 .00
782.50*
281 Mount Shasta . .. ... . .. ... .
188
374.00
131.00
282 Callayomi ............. ..
61
91.00
93 .00
283 South West . ........... ..
523
1,404.00
1,020.00
286 Paso Robles .. .. .... .. ....
312
1,627.50
1,553.75*
287 Winnedumah . ... ... ......
. 1,174.32*
238
1,170.45
288 Maxwell .... ... .. ... . ...
54
128 .00
226.50*
289 Elsinore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...
121
378.00
378 .35*
290 East Gate .. .. ... ....... . .
400
3,087.62
3,014.40*
291 Santa Paula .. ... ... ... ...
385
892 .18
1,141.50
292 Los Gatos ............. ..
464
1,727.00
2,118 .75*
293 Orange Grove . ..... .. ....
444
2,255.65
2,464.65*
294 Traver ... ............. ..
132
327.00
397 .00*
295 Mount Jackson ...........
112
400.50
450.00*
296 Silver Gate .............. .
967
3,132 .60
2,206.50
297 Dunsmuir .......... .. ....
191
541.50
775 .50*

1974 Participation Avg.
Members%
Gift
72
77
2 .86
10
10
0 .52
76
50
4 . 19
123
45
4 .23
23
15
1.77
252
48
5 .31
408
73
5 .91
225
45
4.76
93
26
2.51
111
56
3.72
209
56
5.12
83
15
1.82
103
66
1.99
22
24
1.02
100
97
1.45
90
24
2.56
121
62
2 .23
120
32
3.14
59
42
2.66
304
50
6 . 17
214
50
3.35
24
2 . 14
32
152
3 .22
40
240
56
5 .37
109
64
4.01
71
77
5 .32
74
32
5 . 13
15
36
l.15
43
20
2 .30
252
64
5.23
333
6.63
76
122
53
4.95
109
50
3.40
41
2.01
22
123
47
11.59
31
65
1.79
102
42
3 .19
26
14
0.69
23
14
l.52
155
30
1.95
227
73
4 .97
176
74
4.93
43
23
4.19
46
38
3.12
216
54
7.53
105
27
2.96
254
55
4.56
242
5.55
55
42
3.00
32
4.01
63
70
143
15
2 .28
107
56
4.06

No.

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1973
1974
Membership Contrib.
Lodge
1,765.50
299 Liberty .. ................ 397
2,434.50
453
300 Redlands ................
2,234.36
466
301 Ontario .......... .... ...
408 .50
138
302 Santa Lucia ..............
651.50
480
303 Porterville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
386 .50
144
304 Reedley .... ..... ........
l,697 .60
306
305 Azusa ................. ..
1,556 .75
283
306 Ashlar ........... ... ....
4,295 .00
318
307 Santa Monica .............
709.62
223
308 Monrovia .... .... ..... ...
338.00
196
309 Delano .......... ..... ...
53.00
80
310 Sisson ......... ... ......
502.10
162
312 Los Banos . .. .. . .........
549.40
165
313 Tehachapi ...............
1,129.00
284
314 Temescal ..... ... ........
1,918.05
552
315 Norwalk-Euclid .. .. .....
270 .25
264
316 Sanger ................. .
745.50
211
317 Fallbrook . ...............
2,406.05
435
319 Hollenbeck . .............
1,578 .00
328
320 South Gate ...............
542.50
228
321 Alisal ........ .... ..... · ·
3,357 .52
515
322 Alhambra ......... .. .....
2,301 .69
574
323 Whittier. .... .. ..........
1,352.84
362
324 Corona ................. .
2,128.00
553
325 Consuelo .. ... ... ........
1,042.35
281
326 Needles ........... . .....
5,269.39
592
327 Long Beach ..............
3,324.46
766
328 Redondo ..... .. .........
569.00
119
329 Vallee De France ..........
628.00
197
330 Kilauea ................ .
667.70
270
331 Pacific Grove .............
1,993 .30
517
332 San Pedro . . . .... ... .....
424 .50
145
333 Alta ............... ·····
2,716.16
603
334 Covina ................. .
4,597.50
1013
335 West Gate ...............
5,504.98
592
336 Fruitvale ................
598 .50
143
337 Carquinez .... ...........
583 .00
121
338 San Jacinto ............. .
1,665 .50
416
339 Fullerton . .. .............
1,060.77
414
341 Oxnard ................. .
3,440.20
662
343 San Fernando .............
1,468 .50
752
344 Starr King .... .. .........
396.56
167
345 Brentwood ....... .... ....
1,940.00
624
346 Palo Alto ..... . ..........
1,112.75
356
347 McKinley .... ...... . ....
5,008.54
989
348 San Bernardino ... ... .....
2,880.50
674
349 Sequoia .... ..... ........
2,669.00
501
351 Palestine-Craftsme n ......
1,027.50
379
352 Sunset ................ ..
576 .50
199
353 Pinole ................ ..
2,466 .24
934
355 Hollywood . .. ............
1,771.14
364
356 Mill Valley ........ . . .. ..

No.

1974 Participation Avg.
1974
Gift
Members%
Contrib.
5.39
66
264
2,143.50*
6.44
61
277
2,920.60*
3.07
29
134
1,433.57*
28
3.11
38
430.00*
1.71
21
99
823.50
2.39
31
44
344.50
5.01
50
152
1,534.60*
5.60
59
168
1,585.00*
10.74
69
220
3,416.50*
4.63
26
57
1,034.22*
1.91
22
43
375.00
2.17
43
34
174.00
2.00
41
67
324.00
83
3.74
137
618.34*
5.03
53
150
1,429.00*
4.24
31
171
2,342.56*
0 .57
7
19
151.25
3.18
69
145
671.00*
5.08
40
173
2,212.89*
5.17
47
154
1,696.50*
2.56
41
93
585.00
8.63
53
272
4,447.94*
4.93
25
146
2,835.34*
6.67
100
367
2,415.30*
5.06
45
251
2,800.95*
4.14
57
160
1,165.00*
10.51
73
435
6,227 .20*
4 .00
40
304
3,066.56*
8.55
83
99
1,018.45*
4.49
59
117
885.00*
2.56
34
93
692 .00
3.27
28
146
1,695.00*
0.00
0
0
0.00
6.19
57
341
3,733.81*
4.37
38
385
4,432.50*
4.28
52
310
2,537.45*
4.46
51
73
639.00*
3.91
59
71
474.00*
4.73
35
146
1,971.28*
3.17
26
107
1,313.32*
4 .37
36
239
2,895 .82*
3.95
50
382
2,970.50
3.11
59
99
521.00*
3.77
54
340
2,356.00*
4.07
40
144
1,450.50*
5.29
55
541
5,233.72*
4.91
49
328
3,314.50*
5 .44
55
277
2,727 .68*
5.18
39
149
1,963.00*
2.99
40
79
596.00
3.68
43
402
3,440.24*
5 .36
46
169
1,954.50*

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1974
1973
Lodge
Membership Contrib.
No .
571
2,677.76
357 Buena Park ..............
498
2,503.76
358 Golden State ........ ... ..
0
360 San Francisco-Victory ....
135
160.00
361 Fort Bragg ... ........... .
1,740.35
283
362 Charity ................. .
587
1,985.00
363 Berkeley ................
146
447 .00
365 Willits ................ ..
984
2,996.00
366 Las Palmas ..............
571
2,230.39
367 South Pasadena ... .... . ...
382
1,785.59
368 Unity ................. ..
393
1,310.54
369 Ocean Park ........... . ..
416
1,206.00
370 Amity-Seal Rock ... .....
659
2,418.50
371 Le Progress De L'Oceanie ..
559
3 ,355.83
372 Gardena .................
392
2,454.45
373 West Los Angeles .........
819
537.50
374 United .... .. ..... ... ....
304
1,432.40
375 Richmond ...............
2,272.08
383
376 Francis Drake ...... .... ..
255
2,241.57
377 Artesia ............ . .....
232
2,351.50
378 Mizpah ... .... .... . .....
379 Fillmore .. .. ....... . .....
197
843 .00
479
380 Huntington Beach .........
1,952.66
538
2,121.03
381 Oceanside .... ... ........
394
382 Highland Park ... . .. ... ...
2,538.56
383 Orosi ........... .... ....
132
567.50
384 El Centro ................
1, 144.00
428
385 Dinuba ..... . ... . ...... . .
234
719.50
282
387 Coalinga .. . ......... . .. .
1,259.50
388 Pamassus---Presidio .......
766
2,483.50
698
389 Palos Verdes . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4,513.19
110
390 Imperial ..... ~ ...........
432 .20
391 East Belt ................
135
408.50
392 West Lake ............ .. .
427
2,248.00
393 Balder ......... . ........
395
2,216.00
394 University ...............
2,101.20
307
395 Turlock . ..... ... ........
421
1,184.00
396 Apollo ... ... ....... .. ...
346
1,709.50
397 Rising Light. .............
714
3,760.14
381
399 Fraternity ................
1,337.50
400 Burlingame ... .... .... ...
495
2,116.75
401 Bay View .......... . ....
2,246.41
477
402 Brawley . ... .... .........
202
1,167.61
403 Yerba Buena .. .... ... ... .
690
3,169.00
404 Glendora ................
191
296 .00
405 Moneta ................ .
602
3,186.12
406 Burbank .................
824
3,512.96
407 La Mesa .......... ... ....
565
3,082.27
408 Sierra Madre .............
138
856.92
409 Honolulu ...... ... .... ...
393
2,427.32
.
p
411 ems ................. ..
352
963.00
412 Calexico . ...............
108
517 .00
415 Silver Trowel . .. ..........
397
1,067.50

129

1974
19 74 Participation Avg.
Contrib.
Members%
Gift
2,548.70*
269
47
4.46
2,453.51 *
219
4 .92
44
crm.mlidated
185.50
25
19
1.37
1,909.00*
155
55
6.74
2,450.50*
238
41
4.17
481.00*
41
28
3.29
3,055.70*
351
36
3.10
2,818.11*
264
46
4.93
1,520.52*
159
42
3.98
1,986.30*
119
30
5 .u5
2,151.00*
56
232
5.17
2,421 .50*
248
38
3 .67
3,368.32*
49
276
6 .02
2,543 .00*
197
50
6.48
2,659.00*
350
43
3.24 '
1,242.50*
142
47
4 .08
2,645.00*
218
57
6 .90
1,731.56*
146
57
6.79
2,349.04*
138
59
10. 12
58
806.00*
115
4.09
45
2,291.62*
214
4 .78
2,153 .25*
300
56
4 .00
2,400.56*
207
53
6 .09
458 .50*
45
59
3.47
1,321.50*
113
26
3.08
638 .00
83
35
2.72
1209.50*
128
45
4 .28
2,594.00*
314
41
3.38
4,620.11*
359
51
6.61
518.20*
65
71
4 .71
527.00*
68
3.90
50
2,187.50*
225
53
5.12
1,843.00*
197
50
4 .66
2,158.60*
179
58
7.03
1,141.75
169
40
2 .71
1,659.75*
190
55
4 .79
3,987.03*
370
52
5 .58
41
1,577.50*
158
4 .1 4
214
43
1,873 .25*
3.78
1,663 .16*
200
42
3.48
1,234.10*
130
64
6 .1 0
2,448.00*
208
30
3 .54
538.00
37
19
2.81
3,833.57*
355
59
6 .36
4,449.06*
338
41
5.39
2,677.45*
345
61
4 .73
574. 16*
34
47
4 . 16
2,696.63*
261
66
6 .86
1,289.50*
178
51
3.66
408.00*
56
52
3.77
1,140.44
99
25
2.87

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1974 Participat ion Avg.
1974
1973
1974
Members %
Contrib .
Gift
Membersh ip Contrib.
Lodge
No.
2 .67
41
74
486.00
432 .00
182
416 Lindsay ......... . ..... . .
50
4.29
302
2,610.SO•
2,780.50
608
417 Clovis .. .. ... . ..... .. ...
44
5.43
118
1,472.06·
1,915.56
271
418 Elysian .. .. . . .. .. ... .. .. .
4.59
50
135
1,237.11•
977 .72
269
419 Upland ........ .. ... . ....
35
2.35
51
341.00
424.00
145
420 Kerman . . .. .. .. . . . ... . ..
4.61
38
242
2 ,960.96·
3,064 .93
642
421 Inglewood .... .. . . .......
6.72
66
257
2,607.61•
2,828 .78
388
422 Eagle Rock . .. ...... . .. ..
6 .07
93
483
3 ,148.41•
3, 141 .62
518
423 Florence ........ .. ... . . ..
3. 11
40
85
664 .so•
681.00
213
424 E,eter ......... . .... ... .
3.40
51
81
542.~
1,131.68
159
425 Holtville .. . .. . ... ..... . .
2.68
29
191
1,796.36
1.223.06
668
426 Taft Midway .... . . .. .. ...
3.27
38
83
713.40•
560 .00
218
427 Chino Valley . ..... . .... . .
6 .67
70
150
1,428 .33•
1,387 .53
214
428 San Dimas .. . .. . .........
37
3.07
107
888 .00·
912.50
289
429 Pittsburg .... . ..... . .....
2 .85
48
44
260.00
287 .00
91
430 McCloud . ....... .. . ... . .
4. 13
42
165
1,624.00•
2,018 .00
393
431 Alpha ... . ......... ......
4.56
54
67
566.SO•
523.00
124
433 Hammonton .. .. . . . . . .. .. .
consolidated
371.00
0
434 Maricopa . . ..... . . . .. ... .
2.68
37
94
674.43
731.00
251
435 Fairmount .... ... ... . . ...
3.27
38
77
667 .52•
641.86
204
436 Claremont .. . . . . ...... .. .
4.53
50
282
2,546.32•
2,769 .05
562
437 Lancaster .. .. . ...... . ....
0 .21
4
9
53.00
118.00
250
439 Tyrian . . . . . . . ... .. . ... . .
3.66
27
76
1,029.SO•
1,414.00
281
440 Standard ........ ........
5.90
62
183
1,748 .39•
1,565 .00
296
441 Coronado .. . ... . .. .. . . . . .
3 .73
47
412
3,301 .00•
3,116.77
883
442 Blackmer ..... . ... .. .. .. .
1.68
19
75
651.00
l ,364 .00
386
443 Schofield ...... . .........
8.79
90
139
1,354.35*
1,104
.00
Carpinteri
154
a
.
.
.......
..
.
..
.
444
7 .63
47
241
3,940 .20•
1,899.90
516
445 Wilshire- Garfield ........
5.73
53
138
1,484.44*
1,320.04
446 La Puente . . ... .. .. .. .. . .. 259
6 .99
57
376
4,609 .50*
3 ,749.60
659
447 Torrance .. . ... . ... ... ...
4.78
38
175
2,200.00•
2,253 .80
460
448 Mount Diablo . .. .. .. .. . ..
6 .31
57
650
7 ,261.16•
6,975 .22
1149
450 Van Nuys .. . . . . ..... . . ..
5.(J()
51
311
3,42J.90•
4,031.16
610
451 Montebello .... . ...... . ..
6.83
60
249
2,823.00*
3,146.50
413
452 San Pasqual ... ... . . .. .. ..
3.39
46
196
l ,458 .00•
923 .00
429
454 Crocker . . . . .. . ........ . .
2.68
1
2
1,005.00
2,699.50
375
455 Golden West . ... .. . ......
6 .19
57
436
4,680.42
2 ,805 .58
755
457 Ramona (Monterey Park) .. .
4.65
44
255
2,704.30•
2,344.26
581
458 Henry S. Orme .. .. .. .....
3.18
48
70
462.00*
453.00
145
459 Riverbank . .. .. .. ... . .. . .
7 .28
45
133
2,155 .25•
1,008 .50
296
460 MountOso . ..... ... .. . .. .
4.92
56
261
2,280.00*
2,278.93
463
461 Argonaut -Argonne .. .. . ..
5.38
56
247
2,372.83•
2,295.60
441
462 Paul Revere ...... . .......
l.(J()
37
50
217 .00
128.50
135
463 Morgan Hill .. . .. .. ... .. ..
7
.29
64
209
2,378.50*
2,481.00
Alta
326
Vista-Mo
unt
Vernon .
464
2.36
38
152
945 .00
1,164.00
399
465 Center .. . .. . .. .. ..... . ..
3.53
41
250
2,178 .85•
2,683.45
616
466 Libertas .. .. .. . . .. . . . .. ..
7 .39
51
301
3,661.34•
2 ,285 .38
495
467 Culver City-Fos hay . . . ...
12.82
34
99
3,732.00•
819.50
Rockridge
291
.
.
...
..
. ... ... .
468
3.41
50
103
704 .25·
780.66
206
469 Yorba Linda . ... . . . .. ....
consolidated
1,285.50
0
470 Lincoln ... . .... . .... .. ..
3.72
36
143
1,482.00•
1,594.50
398
471 Delta .. . ... . .. .. .. . ... . .
4.15
66
107
678.oo•
521.00
163
472 Lodge Maui . ..... .. ......

1974
1973
1974
1974 Participat ion Avg.
Lodge
Membersh ip Contrib.
Contrib.
Members %
Gift
473 Blythe .. .. ....... . ......
211
725 .00
791.00•
86
41
3.74
475 America . ... . .. .. .. . ... . .
277
1,676.00
1,732.40•
158
57
6.25
476 Coachella ... . .... .. . . . . ..
256
1,216.00
951.00•
44
112
3.71
477 Temblor . . ..... .. . ... .. ..
88
350.50
310.00•
48
55
4.20
Thousand
Oaks . ..... ... . . 478
478
2,166.29
2,192 .79•
40
191
4.58
479 Golden Rule . .. .. .. .. .. . . 661
3,215 .00
3,623.oo•
402
5.48
61
480 Fellowship .. .. . .. .. . .. ...
411
1,402.16
1,260.00•
150
36
3.06
481 Mt. Davidson .... . ... . ...
299
2,816 .00
3,579 .00•
270
90
11.96
Clarence
F.
Smith . .. .. . .. .
482
205
1,030.80
121.so•
74
36
3.51
483 Bell ..... . .... . ..... . .. .
679
4,674.47
5,004.13•
465
68
7.36
484 Albert Pike . . ...... . ... ..
0
871.10
consolidated
485 Chowchil la ... . .. .. .. . .. .
169
449.34
355.50
67
40
2.10
Caledonia
.
........
486
.. .. . .
511
2,491.70
l,883 .26•
228
45
3 .68
487 Vallejo .... . ......... .. . .
321
618.50
676.00
80
25
2.10
488 Patterson ........ ........
172
132.00
176.00
18
10
1.02
489 East Bay ... . ......... .. .
247
1,547.00
1,561.29•
123
50
6 .32
Corcoran
.
..
..... . ... .. ..
490
116
189.00
259.00
50
43
2.23
491 Woodstoc k .... ... .... ... 340
1,278.75
1,066.SO•
149
44
3. 13
492 Garvanza ... . .. .. ...... . .
211
1,415.92
1,454.15•
131
62
6.89
493 Atascadero ....... .. ......
143
433 .75
532.95•
62
43
3.72
494 Acorn ...... . .. .. ... . .. ..
483
1,512.50
1,486.SO•
129
27
3.07
497 Fremont. ......... .......
399
1,865.00
1,733.SO•
227
57
4.34
498 Stockton . ... . . . ... . ... . .
172
826.00
672.oo•
64
37
3 .90
499 Capital City .. .. .. . .. .. .. .
539
1,963.65
2,535.09•
313
58
4.70
500 Roosevelt ......... .......
149
612.50
620.00•
76
51
4.16
501 Westwood .. . ... . .. .. .. . .
197
407.00
745.so•
109
55
3.78
502 Harbor ......... . ... .. .. .
467
1,963.50
1,965.~
208
45
4 .20
503 Point . .. ... ... ... ... ....
312
1,287.00
1,4so.oo•
162
52
4.64
504 Seaside . . ... .. ... .. .. ...
440
2,148.44
2,265.JO•
233
53
5.14
Silver
505
Cord ... . ........ . .
551
3,287.50
2,104.00•
250
45
4 .90
506 Mount Olive .. ~ . . ...... . . 748
3,469.00
3,410.so•
339
45
4.55
507 El Segundo .... . .........
414
1,647 .30
1,425.11•
145
35
3.44
508 Joppa .. . ... . .. .. .. .. .. . .
84
237.00
359.so•
30
36
4.27
509 Benjamin Franklin ....... . .
212
835.00
659.~
62
29
3.10
510 Cupertino .. .. ... . .. .. .. ..
221
838 .00
614.50
70
32
2.78
Sil Sunnyvale .. . ... . ... . .. . .
408
1,392.00
1,548.oo•
147
3.79
36
512 Palms .... . .. . .. ...... . . .
351
1,908.47
2,103 .07•
203
58
5.99
513 Cahuenga ... .. . . ... . ... . .
422
2,818.72
3,419.72•
371
88
8.10
518 La Jolla .. . ....... .. .....
315
395.00
491.50
45
14
1.56
520 Ionic . . .. . .. .. . .. . ... .. .
1297
4,369.00
5,259.00*
616
47
4.05
521 Orinda .. .. ..... . . . .. .. ..
440
1,874.50
1,743.50*
130
30
3.96
522 Belvedere Sunrise ...... . ..
1,922.24
0
consolidated
523 Bellflower ...... . ...... . .
586
3,067.40
2,842.68•
210
36
4.85
524 Catalina Island . ....... . ...
107
606 .50
568 .80
83
78
5 .31
525 George Washington .. .. . .. .
301
1,245.00
1,229.00*
175
58
4.08
526 Bay City . . ... .. ...... . ..
0
1,099.16
consolidated
528 Beverly Hills .. .. ....... ..
414
2,734.37
2,500.09*
236
57
6.03
529 Loyalty . . . . ... . ... .. .. ..
803
4,636.80
4,281.00•
345
43
5.33
530 Sun Garden .... ..... .. . ..
444
923.50
1,066.00*
94
21
2 .40
531 Alexandria .. . .. .. ...... ..
137
609.50
so2.oo•
60
44
3.66
532 Smyrna .... . ......... . ..
230
646.50
604.25
91
40
2.62
533 Azure .. ... .. .. .. ... ... .. 363
2,688.00
1,697.oo•
219
60
4.67

130

No.

131

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1973
1974
Membership Contrib.
No . Lodge
581.00
150
534 Forest Hill . . ... . . ... .....
832.24
206
535 Alexander Hamilton ... .. ..
2, 166.34
404
537 Utopia .. . .......... . ....
1,827 .74
243
538 Ascot .. . .... . .. . .... . ...
1,361.32
177
540 Queen Beach . .... . .. .... .
1,679.45
378
541 Shattuck-Stephens .. .. ...
6,096.29
859
542 North Hollywood .........
2,968 .28
438
543 Signal .... . .. .. . .. ......
4,142.00
665
544 Glendale . ... ... .... .. . ..
956 .00
242
545 Veritas-Jonathan ..... ... .
3 ,390.98
535
546 San Gabriel ..... ... ..... .
1,740.68
432
547 Arcadia . . ... . . ... ...... .
3,198.15
312
548 Triangle .... ... . .. . .... ..
1,511.00
311
549 Justice ..... . ............
1,084.00
217
551 Lakeshore . . ..... . . . .....
1,022.50
295
552 Semper Virens .. . .. .. . . . . .
1,122.50
306
554 Educator ..... . .... .. ... .
125.00
92
555 White Pine . . .... . . . ......
1,335.00
467
556 Fairfax .. .... .. ...... ... .
1,497.00
363
557 Hermosa . . .. ...... .... . .
1,215.08
266
558 Point Firmin ....... . .....
1,287.50
322
560 Plymouth .... . . . .. .......
2,044.10
842
561 East San Diego .. .... .... .
704 .00
408
562 Pyramid .. . ... . ... . ......
1,300.30
285
563 South Park ... .... . . . .... .
2 ,677.50
859
564 Foothill ..... ... ..... .. ..
1,217.64
213
565 West Adams ..... . .... . ..
1,575.00
0
566 James A. Garfield . ........
1,374.75
331
567 Searchlight ... . .... . . ... .
902.60
290
568 Park Boulevard .. .. .......
602.50
281
569 Chateau Thierry .. . ........
919.57
221
570 Military Service .. ..... . ...
1,248.00
232
572 James Madison . .... .... ..
2,859 .46
522
574 S.W. Hackett ... . . . .......
92 .32
215
575 Fort Crook ... ...... . . . ...
2,359.91
629
576 El Cajon Valley ...... .... .
1,553.08
283
577 Sunnyside . .. .. . . .. ... .. .
2,834.06
396
578 Progressive ... . .. . .......
2,405.70
620
579 Warren G. Harding .. ..... .
832.00
135
580 Santa Maria ... ...... ... ..
883 .50
355
581 Security . .... . ...........
1,855. 12
371
582 Rialto .. . .. . . ..... . ... . . .
729.50
246
583 Wasco . .... .. ..... .... ..
1,083 .75
255
584 Harding .. . . . ... .. . .. . . ..
1,499.64
209
585 Manchester ... .... .......
2,665.74
534
586 Garden Grove . ... . .. . . .. .
1,611.44
327
587 Valley Forge ... ... ..... ..
1, 133 .22
308
588 El Sereno .. . .............
678.00
96
589 Kauai ... .. . . .... .. ... . . .
1,209.00
314
590 Compass .... .. .. . .. .. ...
259.00
153
591 Escalon . . ..... . . . ...... .
1,385.35
312
592 Tujunga ... . ... . . . ...... .

1974 Participation Avg.
1974
Gift
Members %
Contrib.
4.12
61
92
618.00*
4.38
34
70
903 .80*
5.75
40
161
2 ,325.13*
6 .34
46
112
1,541.09*
8.32
54
96
1,474.10*
3.23
42
157
1,222.50*
7 .07
63
541
6,078 .56*
8.55
70
306
3,745 .26*
6.53
60
397
4,346.08*
3.85
52
125
933 .00*
6.07
62
331
3,248 .50*
4.73
34
145
2,043.40*
10.25
70
218
3,200.48*
3.56
41
129
1,108 .00*
4 .64
43
93
1,008.50*
3.59
45
132
1,060.50*
3.68
53
163
l , 126.85*
1.00
33
30
92.00
3.46
45
212
1,616.00*
3.81
36
132
1,385.50*
5.34
38
IOI
1,421.76*
4.99
48
154
1,608.36*
2.30
33
281
1,942.30
4 .89
49
200
1,998 .00*
4.52
34
96
1,289.36*
3.04
50
432
2,618 .20*
6 .66
47
100
1,420.56*
consolidated
4.09
36
119
1,354.90*
2 .52
29
84
733.00
3.63
46
129
1,022.50*
3.73
54
120
825.75*
5.26
80
186
1,221.00*
5.61
45
234
2,929.50*
2 .20
36
78
475 .00
3.29
35
222
2,071.00*
5.60
57
162
1,586.77*
6.01
60
236
2,381.63*
3.82
55
338
2,371.75*
8.32
79
107
1,123 .57*
2.72
35
126
968 .00
5.36
49
182
1,989.15*
3.98
57
140
981.00*
3.42
40
101
872.11*
6 .98
104
50
1,458.96*
5.53
60
323
2,953 . 15*
5.94
54
176
1,943 .84*
4.08
30
92
1,259 .63*
5.51
43
41
529.75*
4 .41
50
158
1,386.62*
3.09
28
43
474.00*
3.68
37
116
1,150.02*

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1974
1973
Lodge
Membership Contrib.
No.
495
593 All States .. .. . .. . . ... . ...
3,123.55
10,814.91
792
594 Service ..... .... .... .... .
595 Alexander Graham Bell . . ...
233
1,918.93
825
5,203 .63
596 Guardian . . .... . . . . .. ... .
598 Pearl Harbor .... .... .... .
577
4,041.50
599 Carmelita .. .... . . .. ..... .
2,462.95
296
2,581.14
600 Lynwood ........ . ....... 503
601 Grizzly .. .... ..... . ..... .
104
364.00
602 Melrose ....... .. .... ....
217
1,316.60
603 Dimond .. . .... . ... . . . . . .
1,119. 15
188
2 ,122.38
399
604 Jubilee ......... . ........
605 Glassell Park . ... .... .... .
313
1,684.59
607 Sojourner ... ........... ..
1, 193.67
258
3,007.70
608 Granada ..... .. ....... . .. 608
1,731.00
609 Provident. .. .... .... .... . 444
610 Elmhurst . .. ..... .. . . .. . .
224
472.00
611 Canoga . . . ....... . .. . . . .
433
2,063 .33
612 Temple City ...... .. ......
2,488.56
421
613 Three Pillars . . . . . . . . . . . . .
383
2, 182.30
614 Larchmont .. ..... . ... . ...
266
1,470.00
615 Hemet ................ ..
421
2 ,151.50
616 R.E. Dolley .. . . . .... .. ...
207
1,070.85
617 Big Bear ... .... ... .... . .
172
551.18
618 Southland ....... . . ... ...
279
1,677.00
619 Neptune . .... ....... . ....
270
1,427.57
620 Point Loma . . . . . ... .. . . . .
644
1,985.31
621 The Gardens ... . . . .......
411
2,554.52
622 Atwater .. . ..............
284
1,416.78
623 Menorah .... ... ..... ....
10,005.17
1307
625 Angeles Mesa ..... . .. .. ..
542
3,135 .34
626 Chula Vista .' .............
2,909.35
734
627 Lamanda Park .... .. ..... .
1,192.00
259
628 Truth . . ..... ..... . ..... .
243
1,122.50
629 Fairview ......... . ......
226
1,402.00
630 Ingleside ... .. . . ...... . ..
0
968.00
631 Benevolence . .... .... ... .
203
1,399.00
632 Normal Heights .... .. .... .
784
3,394.75
633 Poinsettia ... . .. . ..... . ...
704
3,197.50
634 Victorville . ...... .. ......
337
1, 117.15
635 Riverside ... .... . . ... . . . .
611
3,298.35
636 John Marshall. .. .........
277
1,509.75
637 Palisades .. ...... .. ..... .
349
1,813.00
639 Composite .... .. .... . . . ..
3,334.00
693
641 James A. Foshay . . . . . .....
0
988 .00
642 LaCumbre . ....... . ..... .
301
1,634.00
643 Alta Loma . . . .... ... . . .. .
276
2,663.42
644 Lomita .. .. . . ... .... .... . 376
2,043.86
645 A.F.E. Irwin ..... .. ......
214
1,289.80
646 Metropolitan .... . ...... ..
421.00
0
647 Hawthorne .. .... ... ..... .
506
2,688.63
648 Damascus . .... ... . ......
655
3,316.42
650 La Brea . .. .... . . . . . .....
195
821.50

133

1974
1974 Participation Avg.
Contrib.
Members%
Gift
3,750.31*
327
7 .57
66
4,856.47*
450
6 . 13
57
2,089.78*
132
57
8.96
4,809.50*
5 .82
71
584
3,090.25*
330
5.35
57
2,607.54*
198
67
8.80
2,417 .35*
241
48
4 .80
0.00
0
0
0 .00
1,081.92*
46
100
4.98
1,202.00•
102
54
6.39
2,443 .50*
233
6 . 12
58
1,683.32*
65
204
5 .37
1,556.23*
105
41
6 .03
2,993 .79*
250
4.92
41
2,147.00*
258
4.83
58
396.50
45
1.77
20
1,771.58*
189
44
4 .09
1,779.26*
181
4 .22
43
2,016.95*
262
5.26
68
1,749.75*
114
6 .57
43
1,690.00*
225
4 .01
53
1,166.00*
173
84
5.63
681.72*
58
34
3.96
1, 172.50*
129
46
4.20
905 .32*
72
27
3.35
1,986.12*
258
3.08
40
2 ,234.82*
182
44
5.43
1,672.24*
177
62
5.88
11,071 .47*
970
74
8.47
3,944.31 *
564
100
7.27
3,084 .30*
400
4.20
54
1,355.80*
119
46
5.23
1,124.00*
104
4.62
43
1,522.05*
128
6 .73
57
consolidated
1,384.00*
106
6 .81
52
3,159.00*
346
4 .02
44
3,233.00*
322
46
4.59
1,003.65
134
40
2.97
3,461.80*
384
63
5.66
2 , 127.05*
170
61
7 .67
2,224.00*
214
61
6.37
2,766.00*
355
51
3.99
consolidated
1,911.00*
190
6 .34
63
2,378.60*
180
8.61
65
2,218 .86*
221
59
5.90
1,424.28*
112
6 .65
52
0 .00
0
0 .00
0
3,138 .22*
54
272
6 .20
3,326 .75*
372
57
5.07
956.24*
49
96
4.90

134

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1973
1974
Membership Contrib.
Lodge
No.
1,626.50
314
651 Menlo Park ... .. .. . ......
2,587 .55
652 Crescenta Valley . . . .... .. . 584
l ,649 .23
333
653 Fontana ....... .... . . ....
l,535 .00
335
654 Jordan . ...... .. . ...... ..
4,354.16
655 Monte Vista . ... . ........ . 739
820.00
249
656 Citrol ... ........ .. . . ....
1,854.00
657 John D. Spreckels ... . .... . 572
529.00
187
658 Livingston .... . ..........
920. 10
659 La Habra . .. .. . .. ... . ... . 331
2,237 .60
351
660 Baldwin Park .. . . ... .... . .
1,507 .06
232
661 Malta .. . . . . . ........... .
2,076.00
309
662 Henry Kno)( .. ......... . . .
1,005.05
189
663 Ojai ..... .... ... . ... ....
155.00
137
665 Kaweah . .... . . . . .. .. ... .
4,009.63
905
666 Reseda .. .... ... .. . ......
2,232.74
419
667 Meridian . ... . ... .. .. .. ..
l,087.00
259
668 San Gorgonio . ..... ......
667 .50
294
669 John P. Jannan .......... .
3,587.71
756
670 Greenleaf .. . . ........ . .. .
840.00
210
671 San Clemente ..... .. ... . .
435.00
270
672 Laguna Beach .... . .. . ....
917.61
262
673 Far West. .... .. .........
l ,757 .00
523
674 Los Cerritos . . . . . . ... .....
492.00
498
675 Modesto ... ... ... .. .... ..
1,513 .00
382
676 Willow Glen .............
1,167.02
376
677 Liberal Arts .. ........ ....
2,152.50
396
678 Altadena .... .. .. . .... ...
247 .00
109
679 Canby Cross ...... ... .. . .
847.50
214
680 Carmel .. ... . . . .. . ... .. ..
269.00
142
681 Dos Palos . . .... ... . ... .. .
491
2,293 .95
682 Barstow . ...... ....... ...
356.32
135
683 Redwood Empire ......... .
566.00
147
684 Trona .. ... ... .. . ... .....
2,953 .50
685 San Marino ...... ...... .. 416
680.50
193
686 Albany . . . .. ..... . .... . ..
417
687 Vista . .............. .. ..
1,706.80
l,346.00
278
688 Oildale . . . ... . .. . . .. . ... .
329.00
87
689 Pohona ..... . .... . .. ... . .
1,345.00
415
690 San Carlos .. ........... ..
l,557 .25
426
691 Indian Wells Valley .... . ..
583 .50
189
692 Travelers ......... . . .. ...
1,605 .27
344
693 Palm Springs ..... . .... . ..
l,574.00
275
694 San Antonio . .. . . .. . ......
1,091.20
248
695 Meudell .... . .. ... .......
1,674.63
311
696 Crossroads . . . . . . . . . ... . ..
2,285.84
285
697 Saint Elmo .. ......... . . ..
1,401.00
200
698 William D. Stephens .... ...
2,941.05
408
699 Bi)(by Knolls . .. . .... . . ...
1,057.50
348
700 Ponderosa .............. .
676.50
156
701 Santa Ynez Valley ... . .....
l,734.12
251
702 Rosemead ..... ... .......
l,448 .50
391
703 Westchester .. ....... .....

1974 Participation
1974
Members%
Contrib.
52
164
1,529.50*
42
246
2,353.33*
38
128
1,533.97*
53
176
l,652.22*
56
411
4,472.43*
44
110
728.00
44
252
2,239.00*
48
89
495.15
33
108
1,247. 17*
49
172
2,286.33*
49
113
1,403.74*
53
164
2,653.12*
63
120
1,480.98*
28
38
221.00
39
353
3,765.36*
38
158
2,547 .82*
67
173
l,236.00*
44
130
l,000.67*
22
163
3,715.40*
52
110
901 .25*
13
35
510.00
58
151
l,261.00*
78
l,729.00*
406
11
54
551.50
50
190
l ,662.87*
56
211
l,085.00
49
195
l,780.04*
25
195.00
27
43
92
773.00*
61
87
291.00
49
241
2,490.00*
36
49
291.00
71
105
845.00*
52
217
2,522.50*
42
81
610.00*
45
189
l,848 .00*
86
240
1,418.00*
46
40
160.50
49
1,778.00•
205
52
220
l,598 .00*
41
648.00*
77
76
263
1,603 .22*
45
1,422. 10*
123
78
193
l,036.00*
71
222
l,526.73*
45
128
1,420.00*
56
112
1,301.00*
80
325
3,262.05*
40
139
964.00
84
131
730.00*
184
73
l,862.87*
41
160
l,661.36*

Avg.
Gift
4.87
4.02
4.60
4.93
6.05
2.92
3.91
2.64
3.76
6.51
6.05
8.58
7.83
l.61
4.16
6.08
4.77
3.40
4.91
4.29
l.88
4.81
3.30
1.10
4.35
2.88
4.49
1.78
3.61
2.04
5.07
2.15
5.74
6.06
3.16
4.43
5.10
l.84
4.28
3.75
3.42
4.66
5.17
4.17
4.90
4.98
6.50
7.99
2.77
4.67
7.42
4.24

1974
1973
Membership Contrib.
Lodge
No.
209
929.00
705 El Cerrito ....... . .. . ... . .
1,236.90
179
706 Hunters Point Naval ...... .
109
139.00
707 Lake Tahoe .... . .... . . ...
1,931.36
573
708 Seafaring ... .. .. ... . .. . ..
383
1,732.50
709 Lorenzo ....... . . . ... . ...
281
l,825.60
710 Anacapa ....... ... .. .. .. .
214
678 .50
711 Rim of the World . . ....... .
259
900.50
712 Los Altos . . ....... . ......
332
l,667 .50
713 Castro Valley . . ...... . ...
249
974.00
714 Blue Lakes .. ... . . . . .. ... .
319
l,262.53
715 Magnolia Park .. ... . .. ... .
387
2,088.50
716 Belmont Shore ......... ...
176
1,497.14
717 Wayfarer ....... .. . .. . . ..
134
570.00
718 San Lorenzo Valley ...... ..
189
719 Estero ... . ......... . ....
641.50
151
443 .00
720 Mineral King ... . ....... . .
3,922.75
764
721 Home . ... . .... . .... . ....
222
886.50
722 George E. Tun . . ...... . . ..
236
723 Acalanes ..... . . ..... . . ..
932.50
197
724 San Ramon Valley ....... .
871.00
279
718 .00
725 Saint John's . . . ....... . . ..
251
968.50
726 Yucaipa ........... . ... . .
121
727 Verdugo Hills . . . . .... . ...
1,577.74
728 Lakewood . ... ..... .. . ...
287
1,546.02
729 Centennial ...... . . . . . ....
149
1,442.04
730 Polaris ......... .... . . ...
228
l,250.57
731 Two Rivers . .. ....... . .. .
184
1,060.48
732 San Juan . . . . .. .. ....... .
290
1,300.50
733 Golden Empire .... . . .....
188
971.00
734 Kit Carson. - ~ . . ........ . .
224
1,043.00
735 Oasis of Mara .. .. . . . ... ..
139
443.00
736 Lemon Grove ... .. . . . .. . .
489
l,987.46
737 Hillsborough ... ....... ...
187
842.00
' •• •••• ••• • •• • • •• • ••
738 Arv ID
106
452.50
739 La Canada . . . .. . ...... . ..
190
1,007.60
740 Opponunity .. ....... . ....
212
l,398.98
741 Tyre .. . ... .. ... . .... ....
300
1,827.83
742 Manhattan ...... .... . ... .
188
1,215.10
743 Oakwood ...... ...... ....
110
837.66
744 San Leandro .. ...... ... . .
239
1,336.97
745 Peninsula ..... . ... ..... ..
197
1,528.08
746 Soquel .... . . .. ..........
182
660.00
747 Claude H. Morrison .. .. ...
191
576.00
748 Highland .. ... .... . .... ..
192
804.32
749 Merced ....... ....... ...
195
744.50
750 Mother Colony .. ... . . .. . .
204
496.04
751 Hamilton ........ . .. .. .. .
192
713.00
752 Luther Burbank . . ..... . .. .
268
1,015.00
753 Lawndale .. . ..... . . . .....
233
1,277.12
754 San Pablo ... .. ......... ..
161
624.00
755 Golden Bowl. .. . .... .. . ..
175
l,033 .26
756 Oayton Valley .. . . ..... ..
361
1,213.50

135

1974
1974 Participation Avg.
Gift
Contrib.
Members %
113
3.82
54
800.00*
156
7 .32
87
l ,310.50*
23
l.93
21
211.00
2,097 .00*
243
42
3.65
l,909.00*
242
4.98
63
1,720.88*
160
6. 12
57
533 .00
78
2.49
36
118
868 .00*
3.35
46
234
5.68
70
1,886.50*
151
5.47
61
l,362.09*
l ,649.83*
127
5.17
40
2,219.65*
186
5.73
48
131
7.57
74
1,333.80*
110
3.78
82
506.95*
94
3.59
50
680.00*
4 .71
65
43
712.50*
448
4 .40
3,362.50*
59
125
3.56
56
790.75*
4.04
41
955.25*
97
4.48
49
884.50*
97
31
86
3.54
989.45*
54
135
3.72
935.50*
2,714.00*
122
100
22.42
129
1,407.75*
45
4.90
994.48*
57
38
6.67
1,261.00*
160
5.53
70
l ,191.46*
108
6.47
59
l,109.50*
146
50
3.82
1,120.90*
124
66
5.96
1,175.00*
144
5.24
64
483 .30*
92
66
3.47
1,770.50*
184
3.62
38
l , 108.70*
95
51
5.92
467.50*
94
4.41
89
1,155.10*
93
49
6.07
1,226.00*
106
50
5.78
l,212.23*
96
4.04
32
841.00*
112
60
4 .47
919.00*
111
JOO
8.35
155
l ,337.67*
65
5.59
l , 192.50•
119
6.05
60
506.00
63
35
2.78
574.00*
99
3.00
52
767.26*
88
46
3.99
714.50*
102
52
3.66
635.68*
75
37
3.11
813 .00*
92
48
4.23
1,318.17*
171
4.91
64
l,652.10*
153
66
7.09
519.00*
45
72
3.22
743 .70*
120
69
4.24
l ,098 .75*
101
28
3.04

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1973
1974
Membership Contrib.
Lodge
No.
223
759 El Rancho .. .. ... ..... ...
1,124.88
142
677.50
757 Channel ...... .. . . . ......
253
1,706.92
758 West Covina .............
179
696.25
760 Lakeside .. ..............
205
1,051.00
761 Josiah W. Roller ..........
185
669.50
762 Coastside ... .......... . ..
191
934.00
763 Arabic ..... .............
189
920.00
764 Heritage .................
162
1,887 .94
765 Dana R. Weller ..... . .. . ..
156
707 .64
766 James H. Kew ....... .. .. .
143
843 .25
767 William Rhodes Hervey ....
332
2,235.38
768 Zenith .. . ..... .. . . ......
1,238.38
277
769 Palmdale . . ... ... ....... .
851.77
192
770 Lake Chabot .... . ... .... .
271
l,119.00
771 Mission Bay .. . .... ..... .
74
216 .91
772 Avenal ...... ............
1,410.69
773 Tejon ...................
278
1,097.55
774 Waikiki .. ...............
234
538.00
220
775 San Dieguito .............
2,047.19
266
776 East Whittier .............
0.00
53
777 Pinnacle ........ .........
233
1,587 .02
778 La Mirada .. ......... . ...
1,110.00
120
779 Five Points .. . . . ..... . .. . .
1,580.00
140
780 Riviera .. ................
777.48
148
781 Rolling Hills .... . ...... ..
161
584.00
782 Silverado . .... . ..........
84
783 Mojave ... .. . .... . .. . ...
557.30
578 .50
784 Leland Stanford ...........
203
967 .28
145
785 Paramount .............. .
147
1,232.00
786 Rio Linda ........ . .......
158
812. 17
787 Westminster .............
132
788 Sierra .... ...............
366.50
1,658.00
392
789 Oak Plains ...............
247
2,063. IO
790 Granada Hills ............
153
613 .65
791 General Henry H. Arnold ...
431.00
78
792 Millbrae ....... . .. ..... . .
157
88.00
793 Maya ...................
139
862.33
794 Mt. Wilson . . .... . ... ....
415 .50
172
795 American River . .. . ...... .
1,096.29
205
796 Golden Valley .... ........
163
702 .63
797 Tila Pass ... .............
447 .00
139
798 Ashland . .... ..... . ......
769.50
152
799 Clairemont Mesa .. ........
2,583 .38
129
800 Rio Hondo ...............
604.14
126
801 Koolau ..................
542.00
195
802 Yucca Valley .............
391.00
109
803 The Gabilan ..............
105
427 .88
804 Moreno Valley ...........
1,133 .85
154
805 Camellia . .. . .. ....... .. .
1,264.67
174
806 Simi Valley ..............
795.32
170
807 Conejo Valley .... .. .. . ...
567 .50
168
808 Scepter ..................

1974 Participation Avg.
1974
Gift
Members %
Contrib.
4.88
33
74
1,088.38*
4.45
52
74
633.00*
7.28
164
65
1,842.51 *
2.53
37
67
454.10
5.49
70
144
1,127.00*
4.99
107
58
923.50*
4.22
64
123
806.50*
5.44
57
107
1,029.00*
11.09
145
90
1,797 .93*
5.44
58
90
849.00*
0.00
o.oo•
0
7.62
188
57
2,532.49*
5.05
147
53
1,399.12*
4.84
81
156
930.04*
4.26
59
159
1,155.00*
3.87
43
32
286.87*
4.31
64
179
1,198.94*
5.49
62
146
1,285.20*
3.92
60
132
864.00*
8.22
267
100
2,187.90*
5.46
JOO
112
289.50*
10.16
76
178
2,368.06*
9.46
79
95
1,135.68*
12.95
100
140
1,813.50*
9.65
49
73
1,429.00*
3.13
55
89
504.50*
7.52
77
65
632.00*
3.22
65
131
654.00*
5.88
68
98
852.61*
9.09
100
147
1,336.50*
5.22
79
125
825.99*
3.16
52
69
418.40*
3.56
47
186
1,399.00
7.89
52
128
1,948.88*
3.61
99
152
552.99*
6.21
76
59
485.00*
0.07
1
I
12.00
5.67
62
86
789.00*
2.47
37
63
425 .50
5.78
71
145
1,186.74*
6.06
64
105
988.50*
3.26
48
67
454.00*
4.33
62
94
658.75*
22.47
100
141
2,899.16*
3.41
37
46
430.00*
2.61
32
63
510.08
4.15
52
57
453.00*
4.49
81
85
472.16*
10.25
69
106
1,579.32*
7.37
64
Ill
1,283.49*
4.96
64
108
844.66*
3.36
55
92
564.50*

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
1973
1974
Lodge
Membership Contrib.
No.
758.50
159
809 Los Alamitos .............
522.50
133
810 Victoria Palms ... . .. ......
779.56
194
811 Woodland Hills ... ........
456.00
119
812 Triad ............. ......
1,730.00
185
813 Old West. ............. ..
740.00
90
814 Plaza De Los Angeles ......
509.00
128
815 Mount Baldy .......... . ..
115.00
76
816 William B. Ogden . ... . ....
1,099.50
266
818 Great Lights ..............
1,012.44
159
819 Frank S. Land .......... ..
741.90
185
820 Mar Vista ... . . . .........
267.50
60
821 Gateway ....... . . .... .. .
300.50
97
822 Boron .... ... ............
862.00
149
823 Maccabee .. ..... . .... .. .
160
981.50
824 Camarillo .... ..... .... . . .
1,548.00
125
825 Gemini ............ .. .. ..
2,265.00
95
826 Palm Desert ....... .......
414.00
131
827 Kem River Valley ..... .. . .
775.00
82
828 Tustin .............. ....
Southern Calif. Researcht ...
466.50
0

137

1974 Participation Avg.
1974
Gift
Members%
Contrib.
788 .25*
4.95
64
IOI
522.00*
3.92
58
77
1,178.21*
6.07
59
115
3.56
424.00*
39
47
2,020.17*
10.91
86
160
8.61
82
775.33*
74
4.11
32
41
527 .00*
8.28
42
630.00*
32
1,429.50*
5.37
59
156
6.64
1,056.44*
75
119
1,164.31*
6.29
122
66
170.00
2.83
57
34
3.11
302.50*
57
55
910.00*
6.10
72
107
884.33*
5.52
63
IOI
14.17
100
1,771.41*
131
2,515.40*
26.47
98
93
417 .00*
3.18
56
74
8.87
727.67*
55
45
0.00
248 .00
0
46

TOTALS ........ ... 220,337 1,010,382.92 1,039,246.43 109,074
Overall Average Contribution ............................................... 9.53
tNot Included in total membership.

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:

Your Board of Control has had the good fortune and great pleasure of serving
with the nineteen Masonic Service Bureaus in this great jurisdiction and who have
continued to contribute so much for relieving the distresses of Sojourners, their
widows and orphans while visiting or residing in the area served by the Bureaus.
This is the Forty-Seventh Annual Report of the Board of Control and covers
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1974. Copies of the minutes of our meetings were
sent to the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, Grand Secretary and the members of the Board of Control.
The Board of Control submitted all official actions, along with recommendations to the Grand Master for his approval, prior to placing them in effect. His
prompt action on these matters assisted the Board and the Bureaus materially and
to our Grand Master we are most appreciative.
Right Worshipful Kermit A. Jacobson, Junior Grand Warden, was appointed
as Liaison Officer to th~ Board of Control by the Grand Master, and was of most
1
valuable assistance.

138

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
MEETINGS

The Board held four business meetings during the year. One was held in
Northern California and one in Southern Califronia at which time the officers of
each Service Bureau in that area were invited to attend . During the meetings a twoway communication was encouraged. Informative and interesting presentations of
important subjects were presented by each member of the Board of Control.
Robert A. Klinger, a member of the staff of the Grand Secretary, was present and
told of the day-to-day activities of that office. Brother Klinger explained the preparation of tax reports for Lodges, and it is hoped that this service some day can be offered to the Secretaries of the Masonic Service Bureaus.
The two other meetings of the Board were held , one during the 1973 Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge, and the other in Southern California at which
time the budgets of our Bureaus were reviewed and approved.
It has been possible to reduce the number of meetings of the Board of Control
mainly due to the wonderful cooperation of the Bureaus in operating within the
Rules and Regulations. This reduction is reflected in the expenditures of the Board
of Control.
POLICY

At the request of the San Diego Masonic Service Bureau the Board reviewed,
sought the counsel of our Grand Secretary, and then recommended to the Bureaus
that the files of correspondence, records, and other material pertaining to the Service Bureau should be retained for a period of five (5) years and then destroyed if
the file space was required for other material. The only exceptions are: Minutes of
Meetings; the log record of Masonic Funerals; and Masonic Homes Investigations,
all of which are to be kept indefinitely.
Article XV, Section 6 of the Rules and Regulations for Operation of Masonic
Service Bureaus was amended to permit a Service Bureau not to be required to
secure their Annual Audit from aC.P.A. unless their budget exceeded $10,000.00.
The former amount was $7 ,500 .00. The Grand Master concurred in this recommendation and each Bureau was so notified.
TAXES

Continued attention has been given to the important preparation of both Federal and State tax forms and to assist each Bureau in problems which they have
encountered with their tax exempt applications, etc. The Board has continued to
work closely with the Chairman of the Taxation Committee, W. Stanley Davis,
through our Board Member Arthur R. Kirk . These dedicated Brothers have contributed countless hours of their time in these important matters, and we are most
grateful for this service and extend our sincere appreciation to each of them for
their attention to these problems .
UNIFORM COMPACTS

New compacts have been executed for these consolidated Lodges:
United Lodge No. 374
Wilshire-Garfield Lodge No. 445

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

139

Monterey Park Lodge No. 457
Starr King Lodge No. 344
A new compact to replace a missing compact from the files of the Board of
Control was received from Caledonia Lodge No . 486 and Bakersfield Lodge No.
224.
Transfers were approved for Lakeshore Lodge No. 551 and Dimond Lodge
No. 603 from the East Bay Masonic Service Bureau to the Southern Alameda
County Masonic Service Bureau.
A compact executed by Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 to join the Orange County
Mas~nic Service Bureau was approved by the Grand Master. The request of
Chanty Lodge No. 360 to join the San Jose Masonic Service Bureau was also
approved by the Grand Master.
A new compact was approved for the name change of North Hollywood
Lodge No. 542.
AUDITS

Audits of the records and activities were made of the following Bureaus:
Bakersfield, Glendale, Fresno, Orange County, San Bernardino and Richmond.
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON

An article on the operations and functions of the Masonic Service Bureaus
was prepared by the Board and appeared in the Spring 197 4 issue of the California
Freemason. In addition there also appeared a listing of the Bureaus. The Board
appreciates the exposure to the members in this jurisdiction of this important Masonic service . It. is our hope that it has assisted our Brethren .
BUSH MASONIC RELIEF

The Board of Control pays special tribute to Ralph H. Head, the President of
the Bush Masonic Relief and to the Directors who serve with him, Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, P.G.M. and Louis Mahler. This Corporation provides funds
to pay for the operation of the six Masonic Service Bureaus in the Greater Los Angeles Area. The contributions they make to the Bureaus amounts to about
$60, 000. 00 each year. In addition, they contribute to other Masonic Chari ties. The
savings to the Lodges in the Bureaus in the Los Angeles area is material, and it is
hoped that the Masters of these Lodges will use these savings wisely for other Masonic Charities.
NEW EXECUTIVE SECRETARY

Stephen R. Millar was elected Executive Secretary of the Glendale Masonic
Service Bureau . He takes the place of Jordan P. Sims, who served faithfully in that
office since 1968.

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORTS
All Bureaus submitted the required reports during the year, and they are in
summary form as appendages to this report. It is interesting that the total approved
budgets amounted to $100,463.00, which is a 16% increase over last year. Our
total operating expenses were $11,209 .00, which is a 3% increase over the
previous year. Within this amount is $6,075.00 for State and Federal Taxes. Our
Bureaus conducted 803 Funerals for Sojourner Master Masons, and made over 993
calls on sick brothers, conducted 484 investigations, and assisted in preparing 57
applications to Masonic Homes.
.
The Board of Control expresses appreciation to all the Executive Secretaries,
the Presidents of the Bureaus as well as the Officers and Committeemen who served the nineteen Bureaus for their dedicated work during the past year. Special
appreciation is extended to the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and his Staff,
and to the Chairman of the Taxation Committee.
The Board of Control has functioned well within their budget this past year
and herewith requests the sum of $1,250.00 to cover expenses during the ensuing
year. This is a reduction of $750.00 from the present budget.
REPORTS
BUREAU INCOME AND SURPLUS FuNDS

Bureau
Bakersfield ........
East Bay ..........
Fresno ............
Glendale ..........
Long Beach ........
Los Angeles ........
Orange County .....
Pasadena ..........
Richmond .........
Sacramento ........
San Bernardino .....
San Diego .........
San Francisco ......
San Gabriel Valley ..
San Jose ...........
Santa Barbara ......
Santa Monica Bay ...
So. Alameda County.
Stockton ..........

Per-capita
Income

Total
Income

$1,016
5,824
1,952

$1,016
6,247
2,063
1,271
9,544
40,513
2,504
1,300
0
4,895
1,099
7,379
15,075
2,315
1,144
568
1,625
558
1,347

*
*
*

2,504

*

0
4,597
1,046
7,120
5,698

*

836
568

*

548
1,347

Totals ............ $33,056

Surplus Funds
Surplus Funds Increased or
1973
1974 (Decreased)
$244
5,026
187
1,028
24,746
54,009
686
1,314
260
8,941
2,383
4,251
12,127
1,435
979
300
754
85
575

$403
4,496
168
941
11,997
58,661
1,058
1,410
156
7,153
1,595
3,275
12,651
1,504
737
689
742
242
643

$159
(530)
(19)
(87)
(12,749)
4,652
372
96
(104)
(1, 788)
(788)
(976)
524
69
(242)
389
(12)
157
68

$100,463 $119,330 $108,521 ($10,809)

141

*The six Bureaus in the Greater Los Angeles Area receive financial contributions
from the Bush Masonic Relief in the amount of their approved budget.
Long Beach Bureau distributed to member Lodges $14,236 from their surplus
funds during the year.
San Francisco Bureau has over $113 ,500 in special reserves that cannot be
used for operating expenses.

Respectfully submitted,
WARREN W. WILDMAN, Chairman
ARTHUR R. KIRK, Secretary
D. EWING MARSH
JOSEPH L. OUSLEY
RAY L. PETERSON
Adopted.

......
~

A VERA GE COST PER CASE FOR SER VICES

Sojourner
Funerals

Sick
Visits

lnvestigations

31
Bakersfield .. .. . ... .. .
26
East Bay .... .. ... .. ..
35
Fresno ........ . ... .. .
17
Glendale .. .... ..... ..
Long Beach ... . ......
71
116
Los Angeles . .. ... . .. .
Orange County . . ......
112
22
Pasadena . ....... .. ...
15
Richmond .......... ..
65
Sacramento .. . .... . ...
14
San Bernardino .. ... . ..
103
San Diego .. . .... . ....
San Francisco .. .. .....
34
San Gabriel Valley .. . . .
41
San Jose ..... .. ... . ..
30
Santa Barbara ........ .
17
21
Santa Monica Bay .....
19
So. Alameda County .. .
14
Stockton . .. ....... . ..
-803
Totals ... . .... . ......

13
15
104

7
19
3
13
40
125
28
10
0
13
7
88
48
72
0
0
7
3

Bureau

1

31
99
45
0
0
90
82
111
55
5
2
328
5
4
3

-993

I

Requests Cases of
Relief
for
Relief Provided

Applic
for
Homes

-484- -57-

52
121
.148
32
176
423
197
33
15
177
111
330
173
118
33
345
36
30
22

$17.27
55 .98
13.32
42.47
126.66
84.78
10.75
36.50
7.00
37.76
17.00
25 .31
84.10
19.29
42:03
.52
45 .31
13.37
58 .00

2

2,572

0
$100
20
0
950
1,442
0
0
0
0
0
1,107
326
0
0
0
25
0
0

3,970

.o
2
0
2

0
0

0
$100
20
0
950
1,476
0
0
0
0
0
1, 182
210
0
0
0
25
0
0

199

34

$3 ,963

I

0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
1
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

Relief Cases of
Cont.
Funds
Relief
Recov .

0
1
1
0
4
10
0
0
0
0
0
12
5
0
0
0

0
59
1
0
13
60
9
0
0
9
4
12
28
0
0

1
1
3
1
17
13
3
1
0
0
4
3
3
0
1
0
0
4
2

No. of
Cases

Aver. Cost
Per Case
for
Services

Relief
Funds
Advanced

---

;g

§

-z
0

0

(I)

0

'Tl

--l

Ri

-$43.24
--

RECAP OF BUREAU OPERATING EXPENS ES- JULY I, 1973 -JUNE 30, 1974
Exec.
Sect.
Salary

Asst.
Sect.
Salary

Steno
Other
Salary

TelePrintParkGrand
graph
ing
ing
Lodge
Bureau
Rent Phone Supplies Postage Mileage Taxes Charge Audit
Bakersfield . .. .. ... .
$650
0
0
u
$91
0
0
$31
$107
0
0
East Bay .......... .
4,980
0
40
0
639
$239
$135
0
507
53
0
Fresno .......... ...
600
0
1,200
0
11
0
20
0
101
25
15
Glendale .......... .
300
0
0
0
187
57
41
54
512*
19
25
Long Beach ... . ....
4,867
0
240
1,288
147
222
34
329
470
0
0
Los Angeles ..... . ..
11,885 $11,200
210 4,178
917
1,115
443
1,501
1,458
1,139
535
Orange County ......
1,200
0
0
600
113
II
50
0
119
25
0
Pasadena ... ..... . ..
900
0
0
0
0
80
3
0
100
0
100
Richmond ..... . ... .
0
0
0
0
0
31
19
0
0
25
0
Sacramento . . . . .....
5,473
0
100
0
190
56
20
166
454
65
75
San Bernardino . . ....
1,620
0
0
0
9
0
0
0
145
0
35
San Diego . ..... .. ..
5,700
0
0
990
407
174
134
215
586
72
75
San Francisco . . .... .
9,000
1,960
0
691
510
568
226
0
951
125
200
San Gabriel Valley ...
1,500
0
75
0
104
112
19
124
259
28
30
San Jose . . .........
840
0
0
0
122
0
0
9
118
21
0
Santa Barbara .......
0
0
0
0
2
56
0
37
10
12
25
Santa Monica Bay .. .
720
0
0
0
464
134
50
33
72
18
0
So. Alameda County .
0
0
0
120
188
66
12
3
0
12
0
Stockton ...... .. .. .
960
22
0
- - - - - -0 - - -0 -- -0 - -171- - - -0 - - -4 - -15- --106
- - - --Totals ........ . .... $51,195 $11,200 $2,585
$9,107 $4,272 $2,921 $1,210 $2,517 $6,075 $1,661
$1,115
*Glendale Bureau post paid Taxes for a five year period.
**Long Beach Bureau distributed surplus funds to member Lodges in the amount of $14,236.00
.

.

All
Other

Total
Expenses

$19
$898
180
6,773
0
1,972
164
1,359
14,695** 22,292
1,279
35,860
0
2,118
22
1,205
30
105
84
6,683
79
1,888
0
8,353
319
14,550
26
2,277
277
1,387
37
179
140
1,631
0
401
0
1,278
$17,351
$111,209

0

~

~

0

r

g
fd
0

'Tl
(")

>-

t:

'Tl

0

~

->z-

Typical of the caliber of dedicated Masons acting as officers and employees of the Service
Bureaus are Executive Secretary Stephen R. Millar of Glendale,
Emmanuel Beber of Richmond, Paul T. MacQuiddy of Santa Barbara and Anthony F. Taylor
of Southern Alameda County, who all serve without pay .

......

~

w

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

144

BLOOD BANK ACTIVITIES REPORTED
Cash
Cash
Pints
Pints
Paid
Rec'd
Used
Rec'd
Bureau
0
0
173
236
East Bay .. .. . . . . .
$240
$240
37
27
Fresno . .. . .. ... ..
0
0
0
0
Glendale .. .......
0
0
216
321
Long Beach . .... ..
0
0
48
33
Pasadena .... . ... .
0
0
47
46
Richmond .. . ... ..
0
0
2
3
Sacramento ...... .
0
0
0
0
San Bernardino . ...
0
0
63
0
San Diego .. . .... .
0
1,940
1,456
1,872
.
...
.
San Francisco
0
0
30
24
Santa Monica Bay . .
0
0
66
54
So . Alameda County
Totals ......... . .

2,616

2,138

$2,180

$240

Total
Funds
0
$2,144
2,167
0
0
266
0
591
0
28,876
380
0

Funds increased
or (decreased)
0
$101
0
0
0
8
0
26
0
1,946
0
0

$34,424

$2,151

145

Recommendation number four regarding the making of adequate standards of
reimbursements of expenditures to the Committees on Policy and General
Purposes and Finance; also Jurisprudence .
Recommendation number five regarding the restructure and re-evaluation of
laws relating to publicity and public relations to properly relate the story of
Freemasonry to the World to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and
·
Jurisprudence.
Recommendation number six relating to the need for sponsorship and support
of DeMolay, Job's Daughters and Rainbow for Girls to the Committees on Policy
and General Purposes , Jurisprudence and Youth Activities.
The Decision of the Grand Master to declare the Universal League of
Freemasons to be clandestine to the Jurisprudence Committee.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT
We recommend that this report be referred in it's entirety to the Committee on
Finance.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON DISTRIBUTION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:

Having reviewed the Grand Master's Annual Message, the Reports of the
Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary, Grand Lecturer, Masonic Homes Trustees and
the Masonic Homes Endowment Board, the Committee on Distribution submits
the following report:

We recommend that the portions of this report be referred to the Commitees as
follows:
I . That portion relating to changes of meeting places to the Committees on
Charters and on By-laws.
2. That portion relating to consolidation of Lodges to the Committee on
Charters.
GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT
We recommend that the portion of the report relating to the budget be referred
to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE
The Grand Master' s Message contains six recommendations and one
decision. We recommend that the subject matter involved in the Grand Master' s
Message be referred to Committees as follows:
Recommendation number one for establishment and maintenance of a supervised educational program to develop the capacity to govern Lodge affairs to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Recommendation number two regarding the creation of three new executive
positions to supervise and control Grand Lodge Committees to the Committees on
Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.
Recommendation number three to increase the membership of Masonic
Homes Endowment Board from thirty to thirty-five members to the Committees on
Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence.

REPORTS OF MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
AND
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
We recommend that the reports of the Trustees of Masonic Homes of
California and the Masonic Homes Endowment Board be referred in their entirety
to the Committee on Finance.
Respectfully Submitted ,
Varnum Paul, Chairman
Roland C. Renshaw
Ngai Ho Hong

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES
CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

The Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple herewith
submits its Twentieth Annual Report.
The terms of the appointive Trustees of the Board of Trustees are, as follows:
Varnum Paul
(1974)
Wallace Honeywell
(1974)
DeWald M. Baum
(1975)
(1975)
Ira W. Coburn, P.G.M.
Elroy D. Joyce
(1976)
Otto Rohwer
(1976)
At the close of the 1973 Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, the Board
of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple held its Annual Meeting.
The Board of Trustees then proceeded to nominate and elect the following officers
to serve for the ensuing year until new ones are elected.
DeWald M. Baum ...................................... President
Ira W. Coburn, P.G.M ............................... Vice-President
Chester R. MacPhee, P.G.M .............................. Treasurer
Edward H. Siems, P.G.M ................................. Secretary
Burton Meyer, Jr. ............................. Deputy Grand Master
This year our Masonic Memorial Temple celebrated its sixteenth birthday. At
each Annual Communication many members of the Fraternity who were not
Master Masons at the time of its dedication, attend Grand Lodge for the first time.
We believe that it is appropriate to remind them that this magnificent building is
our first Grand Lodge Temple, conceived and built by the Craft as its permanent
headquarters. Its conception and birth required eleven years filled with vision,
frustration and finally achievement. It can be truly said that when our Brethren
built a building of their own, they did so in magnificent style. Not for nothing are
we as Masons called builders. We truly practice what we preach.
Our California Masonic Memorial Temple, located at the top of prestigious
Nob Hill, has each year added to its reputation as an outstanding complex for the
cultural, civic and educational activities of this great metropolitan city. Here are
presented to all our very substantial contribution to the beautification of San
Francisco and the advancement of civilization in general. May the Great Architect
of the Universe grant that this building will always shine as a beacon light of our
Fraternity's determination to always support and advance a free public school system for the education of the generations of Americans yet to be.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

147

Acoustically, it has no peer for concerts, stimulating lectures and the
performance of musical and dramatic presentations. It furnishes an outstanding
setting for the dramatic exhibitions of the new creations of industry and the fine
arts. Business organizations, fraternal, state governmental departments and
professional associations are continually increasing their use of our facilities for
their meetings. It is an excellent showcase for their numerous activities.
TOURS AND VISIT ATIO NS

The Temple is open daily, except Saturday and Sunday, for visitors from 8:45
a.m. to 4:45 p.m. If there are other activities in the Temple on Saturday or Sunday
then additional tours are arranged. We have had guests from every one of the
States and from many of the countries of the world visiting our Temple. This year
we were hosts to visitors from the following countries:
Australia
Austria
Canada
England
France
Germany
Iceland
Iran
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Kenya
Poland
Netherlands
New Zealand
South Africa
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
Turkey
Members of the craft from the 50 States and from many foreign countries
request information to take home to their respective lodges. They are amazed at the
beauty of our Temple. We learn continually that we are a unique Grand
Jurisdiction and in the forefront of the activities of Freemasonry.
Many representatives of Senior Citizen groups, Rainbow for Girls, Job's
Daughters, DeMolay Chapters and other concordant bodies continue to arrange for
tours of our beautiful building. Hundreds of public school children visit our
Te~ple an~ it mak~s a lasting impression on them of our efforts to help them
achieve their potential of a better life through free public school education.

50

MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS

Nothing less than the highest stanqards of maintenance will continue to prese!"e the classic beauty of our Temple. After 16 years of use and occupancy, certain of .the. mechanical equipment of necessity will require replacement or
modernization. The elevators needed further dock and directional controls the hot
water boiler tubes of necessity required repairs and replacement, the Pin~ Street
ramp w~s renovated to prote~t the metal panel. All portions of the building not
faced with marble must be painted and the exterior marble facing must be cleaned
after so many years of use to remove the embedded grime to prevent deterioration
?fthe surface. The painting and marble will not be done until the apartment building being built next door is ready for occupancy. We have been informed that the
c.ompletion d~te is this year. The interior painting, stripping and waxing is a continual necessity to not only preserve the charm and usefulness of our building but
also the surface from erosion through wear and tear. Most of this interior main-

148

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tenance has been done during the past year by our own staff to reduce the cost of
operations.

created from the use of the Auditorium and Exhibition space. Thus more use of our
facilities means more income from this source.

PuBLIC RELATIONS AND CIVIC AFFAIRS

0cCUPANCY

Membership in the Nob Hill Association, San Francisco Convention _and
Visitors Bureau, the Press Club of San Francisco and the Greater San Francisco
Chamber of Commerce serves us as a much needed contact with prominent civic
and business leaders from whom many rental prospects and much useful information of value can be obtained.
Our staff has been instructed and is making every effort to give that extra
excellence in service and attention to our tenants that results in repeated use of our
facilities. Their fine cooperation does not only build a better image of our
Fraternity but also makes the use of our fine facilities more enjoyable for our
tenants and increases their desire for further use . Numerous tenants have
commented most favorably in letters to us of this unusual attention to their anticipated needs.

During the past year our Auditorium, because of its excellent accoustical properties, has been used for some of the finest concert and theatrical-type of
performances. This has enhanced the fine reputation of the Temple as a place of
culture and refinement befitting the admirable image of California Freemasonry.
Your Trustees believe this type of use of our premises should be continually
encouraged.
A number of new hotels and additions with the most modem of convention facilities have been completed in the past year. We have to be cognizant that each
new facility is and will be competitive for our rental clientele insofar as meeting
.
space, Exhibition Hall and Auditorium use is concerned.•
With this in mind, your Trustees believe it is most desirable that the present policy of diversified rental of the Auditorium and Exhibition Hall be followed as a
protection against the lessening use of either one by the booking of only one form
of tenancy. Each new hotel will encourage and should bring some additional convention business to San Francisco and increase its reputation as an ideal place to
hold meetings.
Our Auditorium is well adapted to all kinds of stockholder and business meetings. Space does not permit a full recital of the many corporations and groups that
have used the Auditorium and the Exhibition Hall for important meetings.
It is most gratifying that well known educational institutions have held their
graduation exercises in our facility because of its beauty and impressive dignity
that the setting contributes to the historic occasion.
The State ofCalifornia uses our Exhibition Hall forthe examinations conducted
for Certified Public Accountants and the State Bar of California holds its bar examinations in our premises.

TEMPLE STAFF

Our manner of operation requires only a small, loyal, creative and capable
staff. Without their dedication, it would be impossible to meet the many challenges and trying problems that continually arise in the management of a? edific_e
such as ours under present competitive conditions. We sincerely appreciate their
past services and helpful assistance. They have made service more than just a
word.
On Tuesday evening, May 21, 1974, George Gavin our General Manager,
received his coveted 50-Year Button at Oriental Lodge No. 144 from the hands of
The Most Worshipful, Edward H. Siems, P.G.M. A number of the Trustees were
present at this memorable occasion and participated in the tribute to our distinguished Brother. He became our Executive Officer in 1963, and during the past
eleven years, through his unselfish devotion to the duties of his position the income
of the Temple has shown a continuous growth. We extend our grateful thanks for
his contribution to the successful operation of the Temple.
This year two of our hard working employees will retire. Gus Prinz has rendered IO years of outstanding service. William Lawson has given 5 years of
dependable service. Both of these gentlemen were most reliable and dedicated.
We will miss them.
INCOME

During the past year the income from the building and garage reached an all
time high. The fiscal year of July 1, 1973, to June 30, 1974, shows a 22.4%
increase in building income over that of the last fiscal period.
Through judicious supervision the operating expenses, salaries, supplies,
repairs, maintenance, including real and personal taxes, increased only 3 . ~~·
The garage showed an increase of 10.3% over the previous fiscal year. This mcome will always continue to fluctuate because it is based largely on the occupancy

INSURANCE

The Grand Lodge Insurance Committee has reviewed all insurance coverage of
the Temple and the Pine Street properties and has approved them as proper and
appropriate.
PINE STREET PROPERTIES

During the past year these properties were again inspected by the code
enforcement authorities of the City and County of San Francisco, and we have
complied with all their recommendations . The present cash flow still justifies the
maintenance of the old buildings as a source of revenue, until a more appropriate
use of the land can be determined.
During this year construction has continued on the luxury 17 story apartment
house immediately West of the Temple. It has 270 apartments in an L-shaped
design surrounding a courtyard. Through the efforts of counsel of the Board of
Trustees, an agreement was negotiated that protects our Temple for any future

151

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

needed expansion in height.
. ..
Your Trustees always have been committed to a policy of fiscal responsibihty.
We are pleased to report that that the indebtedness incurred for the acquisition of
the Pine Street properties has been paid in full.
We will continue to study the best economic and feasible use of the Pine Street
properties. Your Trustees will be guided in their deliberations by the possible
demands and needs for further expansion of our present facilities and the good of
the Fraternity. We will keep the general membership advised of our progress in
this regard.

Previous reports to Grand Lodge have shown concern for rising costs. While
editorial expenses have not increased, added costs of printing and postage cause
the board to recommend that the present per capita of 35 cents be increased to 40
cents, or a total cost of 10 cents for each issue of the four published during the year.
The financial report for the past fiscal year will be found in the report of the
Finance Committee.
One concluding recommendation: if a goodly portion of the nearly 900,000
copies of the California Freemason published annually were passed on once again
to friends and family members, especially those without Masonic affiliation, the
story of California Freemasonry would grow and spread at even a greater rate.
Why not let your copy of a new subscription be your way of broadcasting the gospel of that for which Masonry stands and that in which it believes.

150

CONCLUSION
Your Trustees are grateful to the many farsighted members of our Fraternity
whose vision and courage inspired the erection of the magnificent building we so
proudly call the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Respectfully submitted,
DEWALD M . BAUM, President (1975)
IRA W. COBURN, P.G.M.,
VARNUM PAUL (1974)
Vice President (1975)
WALLACE HONEYWELL (1974)
BURTON MEYER, JR.
ELROY DAffi.EM JOYCE (1976)
OTO ROHWER (1976)
Adopted

REPORT OF CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
PUBLICATION BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California :
The publication and distribution of the California Freemason is admi~istered
by a board comprised of the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, such advisors as
may be desirable, and the Editor-in-Chief, appointed by the Grand Master.
As the magazine was in its 21st year the life story of its founding editor, Judge
Newcomb Condee reached the proverbial "30" and California Masonry lost one
of its most dedicated citizens. It was he who made the California Freemason into
one of the most readable and authoratative Masonic publications in the United
States. Grand Master Raymond A. Ebbage asked Ralph H. Head, a Past Master of
Sunset Lodge No. 352, to serve as editor for the remainder of the year.
The publication board believes that the Califon:"~ Freema~on i:nust always
reflect its responsibility: that is, to serve as the official and vital hnk between
Grand Lodge and the Masons of this Golden State. To the more than ~23,~
members of the fraternity it must provide a viable means of commumcation,
especially with those not in regular attendance at Lodge meetings. ~ince it is
mailed to every Grand Jurisdiction in the United States and to others m the free
world, it must present the Grand Lodge of California on an exemplary scale of
moral duty and accountability. Such is its goal and dedication.

Respectfully submitted,
RALPH H. HEAD, Editor-in-Chief

RAYMOND A. EBBAGE
Grand Master

EDWARDH. SIEMS
Grand Secretary

Referred to Committee on Finance (Budget allocation)

The Committee on Finance:
The recommendation of the California Freemason Publication Board that the
per capita tax for the California Freemason Magazine be increased from 35 cents to
40 cents has been referred to the Committee on Finance. The present per capita of
35 cents has remained unchanged for the past eight years . While this assessment
proved adequate to cover publication expenses for the early years of this period,
during the past four years a deficit of over $22,000 has accumulated, and for the
current year an additional $13 ,000 deficit is projected.
In the belief that each function or activity of Grand Lodge should, insofar as possible, be self supporting, we concur that the per capita be increased to 40 cents for
t?e current year. There is every reason to believe that publication costs will contmue to escalate and that further increases may be necessary in future years.
Adopted.
At 4:15 P.M . Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Tuesday.

152

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Tues day, October 15, 1975

The market value of trust securities on December 31, 1973 was $1, 192, 151, a
decline of $324,539 from cost. This compares with a decline of $58 ,000 in market
value reported as of December 31, 1972. We also call your attention to the fact that
the continuing depressed condition of the securities market since December 31,
1973, up to and including June 30, 1974, has resulted in a furtherdecline in market
value of trust assets of $127,336.
As noted in previous reports, income from investments, together with employer
and employee contributions, has been more than necessary to discharge pension
obligations , pay operating expenses of the Plan and to maintain required reserves .
In the six month period ending June 30, 1974, proceeds from sales of securities and
new money going into the Fund has been invested in short term investment paper
on a favorable yield basis.
For the calendar year 1973, total investment income was $75,381 and expenses
charged to the Fund for trustee's fees, actuarial services, audit fees and interest on
refunds of employee contributions totaled $8,456 .
The net investment income amounted to $66,925, equivalent to a yield on the
cost value of invested funds on an average basis of 4 .57%. If the yield were com- ·
puted on the basis of excluding expenses charged to the Fund, the yield on a cost
basis would be 5 .17%. Comparative yields for the preceeding calendar year ( 1972)
were moderately higher by reason of gains from sale of securities . As noted, there
were no sales of securities during 1973 . Using figures determined by Alliance
Capital Management Corporation, the expected average investment yield for 1974
on the portfolio of investments on a cost basis as of December 31, 1973 is 5.6%
and the yield on a market basis is 7 .2% .
The valuations established by the actuaries for the purpose of determining the
employer contribution rate have been made on the assumption that the Trust would
earn 4% per annum .
A review of schedules contained in the actuaries' report shows that, for the Masonic Homes of California, the number of active members in the Plan decreased
from 117 to 113. The annual covered payroll increased by $5,763-from$794,0 97
to $799,860. The average annual salary of employees participating in the Plan was
$7 ,078 for 1973 as compared to $6,673 in 1972. The number of retired members
increased from 33 to 37 and the annual pensions being paid increased from $25, 115
to $29,069.
For the Grand Lodge of California and its components, the number of active
members in the Plan increased by one - from 17 to 18. The annual covered payroll increased by $17, 150-from$132,051 to$149,201. The average annual salary
increased by $521 - from $7, 768 to $8 ,289. The number of retired members
decreased from 17 to 15 and the annual pensions being paid decreased from
$21,478 to $19,656.
To maintain the Plan in sound financial condition, continuing the employee
contribution rate of 3%, assuming a 4% return on investments and considering the
portfolio of investments at cost value as of December 31, 1973, our actuaries have
calculated the employer contribution rates necessary to maintain current service
benefits accruing under the Plan.
For the Masonic Homes of California, the contribution rate is expressed as

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master. presiding.
Brother C. E. Simard, Master of Capital City Lodge No. 499, raised Grand
Lodge. The Invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The minutes of the
morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, October 14, 1974 were read and
approved .
In the temporary absence of John F. Roberts, Jr., the Grand M~ter appoint.ed
Ernest W. Newton, Assistant Grand Lecturer to occupy the station of Semor
Grand Warden .

REPORT OF RETIREMENT PENSION
PLAN COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California :
Presented herewith is the report of the Retirement Pension Plan Committee for
the Grand Lodge year ended June 30, 1974.
Reviewed in connection with the California Masonic Retirement Plan were
financial reports prepared by the Grand Lodge accounting staff, the Trustee for the
Plan, Wells Fargo Bank, the certified public accountants, Farquhar and
Heimbucher, and by our actuaries, Coates and Crawford. Statements reviewed
were for the calendar year 1973 . In addition, the committee chairman is furnished
copies of monthly statements prepared by Alliance Capital Management
Corporation for the Grand Lodge Committee on Investments, which is empowered
under Section 208 of the California Masonic Code to supervise the investments of
the Pension Plan.
Two meetings were held by the committee during the current Grand Lodge
year: one on March 6, 1974 and one on August 1, 1974. The meetings were held in
the Grand Lodge office and, in addition to members of the committee, were attended by Edward H . Siems, P.G.M., as secretary to the committee, and by Barrett
Coates, Actuary, of the firm of Coates and Crawford.
As of December 31, 1973, trust assets, including year-end accruals, amounted
to $1 ,530,411 on a cost basis as compared to$1,404,044 on December 31, 1972, an
increase of $126,367 for the calendar year 1973. This increase occured by way of
employer and employee contributions and from net investment income: Th~re
were no sales of securities during the year and such additions to the portfolio of investments as were made came from sales of short term commercial paper, etc. Of
the total assets of $1,530,411, $1,146,102 is assignable to Masonic Homes of
California and $384,309 is assignable to the Grand Lodge of California and its
components .

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

8.88% of payroll; and for the Grand Lodge of California and its components, the
contribution rate is expressed as 10.83% of payroll. For the previous year, the corresponding rates were 8.79% and 9.69%, respectively.
In closing this report, your committee again expresses its appreciation to the
Grand Secretary and the members of his staff for their full cooperation extended
during the year; and to the firm of Coates and Crawford, Actuaries, for the complete reports furnished and which are the basis for much of the information contained herein.
We request that an appropriation of $600 be included in the Grand Lodge budget
to cover operating expenses of the committee during the ensuing Grand Lodge
year.
Respectfully submitted,
GUY B. MIZE, Chairman
EDWARD T. MANCUSO
RALPH H. HEAD
DONALD B. MCCAW
JOHN F. ROBERTS , JR.
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

Culver City Lodge No . 467 and James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641 to be known
as Culver City-Foshay Lodge No. 467 .
Pyramid Lodge No. 562 and Ingleside Lodge No. 630 to be known as
Ingleside-Pyramid Lodge No. 562.
South Pasadena Lodge No.·367 and Metropolitan Lodge No. 646 to be known
as South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.
Doric Lodge No. 216 and Starr King Lodge No . 344 to be known as Starr
King Lodge, No. 344.
Ramona Lodge No. 457 and Belvedere Sunrise Lodge No. 522 to be known as
Monterey Park Lodge No. 457.
Richmond Lodge No . 375 and Military Service Lodge No. 570 to be known as
Brotherhood Lodge No. 375.
Alexandria Lodge No . 531 and Educator Lodge No. 554 to be known as Educator Lodge No. 554.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, I move that the Grand Secretary be authorized
to properly endorse the above Charters and that this report be accepted.

154

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A . M. of California:
For the third successive year there have been no Lodges instituted and so your
Committee on Charters has no Lodges under Dispensation upon which to report.
We again deplore this situation. We recognize that older cities may have no need
of additional Lodges and may even need to consolidate existing Lodges, but the
other side of the coin is that new suburban communities are being formed that
have no Masonic organizations of any kind. In his fine report yesterday our
Grand Master pointed out that younger men are again taking an interest in Masonry. Most of the younger families live in these new communities and it is a
challenge to our Fraternity to provide the Lodges and Masonic organizations for
the entire families .
It is not the function of the Committee on Charters to go into these new areas
to recruit members to start Lodges. The initial spark must come from those who
will start the Lodge - but once the spark is struck, we stand ready to assist and
advise. There is also a manual available from Grand Lodge which details the
steps necessary in forming a Lodge. I sincerely urge any of you who live near
such communities to accept this challenge and find other Masons to join with you
in starting Lodges. You will find it one of the most rewarding projects in which
you have ever taken part.
There has been referred to our Committee that portion of the report of the
Grand Secretary listing changes of meeting place of several Lodges and also that
portion dealing with Charter Amendments. Sixteen Lodges consolidated:
Sunset Lodge No. 352 and Albert Pike Lodge No. 484, effective December 4,
1973, to be known as Sunset Lodge No. 352.

Respectfully submitted,
KENNETH HEMPHILL, Chairman
HARRY L. MAYNARD
FRANK HOMER
R. D. GOMES
MARVIN F. RENO
LINCOLN B. GRAYSON
Adopted.

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDING JUNE 30, 1974
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of California:
The past year has been a difficult one in the investment market with both bond
and stock prices declining in the face of extremely high interest rates, continuing
inflation, political turmoil and international monetary problems created by the vast
flow of funds to the oil producing nations, largely representing outflows from the
United States and other industrialized nations. Accordingly, the total market value
of the investment portfolio under our control declined to $37 ,618,218 at June 30,
1974, as compared with a total of $40,518 ,869 at the end of the prior year. In spite
of the decline in market value, the estimated annual income has increased from
$2,217 ,988 to $2,455,470, a gain of 10.7%.
Activites of the Committee are regulated by the Masonic Code, which sets forth
the three major categories (as groups) of securities allowable for investment.
These categories are summarized as follows:
(1) Group I - Consists of cash, savings accounts, obligations of the United
States, obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions, and such
other securities as are legal for savings banks in California and Hawaii. In general.
Group I may be said to consist of the highest grade and most conservative

156

157

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

securities. At least 20% of the funds available for investment must be maintained
in such securities.
(2) Group II - Consists generally of bonds, debentures, and other evi~ences
of indebtedness which do not meet the qualifications of Group I. It also consists of
preferred stocks which are listed on a National Securities Exchange and the preferred stocks of corporations whose common stocks are eligible for investment in
Group III.
.
.
(3) Group III - Consists of common stocks, which must be fully hsted and
registered on a national exchange registered with the Securities and Exhcnage
Commission, bank and insurance company stocks, shares of investment trusts,
and savings accounts with savings and loan associations. Total inv~stments in
Group III securities are generally limited to 60% of the total portfoho.
Following is a recapitulation of the consolidated portfolio as of June 30, 1974,
at market values, compared with the portfolio as of a year earlier:
GROUP I
June 30, 1974 June 30, 1973
Bonds:
$ 487,745 $ 500,417
Federal Agency
4,202,491
4,168,645
Public Utility
4,639,421
4,067,251
Transportation
1,728,750
2,277,950
Industrial
1,198,910
l,224,950
Financial
$12,226,541 $12,269,989
Total Group I
(30.28%)
(32.50%)
Percent of Total

Convertible issues make up 16.44% of the portfolio and are represented by
debentures and preferred stocks which yield 7.6% at market and are convertible
into the common stock of the issues held. This type of investment provides good
current income while also having the potential for capital appreciation in a more fa.
vorable stock market climate.
Common stocks represent over 50% of the Fund and, in our opinion, continue
to be appropriate considering the investment objectives. While the market value of
the common stocks decreased 16.03% over the past year, this compares very fa.
vorably with most common stock indexes and with publicly reporting mutual
funds.
Our investment strategy continues to stress quality, balance and patience.
Quality will be a particularly important criterion over the coming years. We define
corporate quality in terms of outstanding management, strong finances, dominant
or unique competitive position, excellent products and services and above average
growth prospects. To the extent that companies possess these qualities, they
should be able to lead and/or benefit from significant changes, maintain or increase
market share, and retain or improve profitability.
Portfolio balance, which is also an important measure of flexibility, is likely to
be another essential element of investment success . A compelling reason for balance in current investment strategy is the growing probability that the domestic
economy recovery in 1975 will be more balanced than normal. Public spending
(private investment) will be stronger than usual in the next economic upswing and
consumer spending will be more restrained because of continuing pressures on real
disposable income. The balanced portfolio both from the standpoint of fixed income versus equities and a proper sector weighting within the equity portion
should perform best in a balanced recovery.
And finally, tl\e concept of patience is a very essential ingredient in a successful
investment strategy. There is a distinct difference between investment patience
and complacency. Investment complacency implies doing nothing for the sake of
decision; investment patience connotes the inner confidence and courage to take
appropriate portfolio actions and to wait for superior value and selectivity to prevail in the market.
Respectfully submitted,
JACK F. BOWLEY, Chairman

GROUP II
Bonds:
Convertible
Preferred Stocks:
Convertible
Total Group II
Percent of Total
GROUP III
Common Stocks:
Public Utility
Industrial and Transportation
Financial
Total Group III
Percent of Total
Total Portfolio

$4,360,234

$5,383,325

1,824,501
$6,184,735
(16.44%)

1,652,662
$7,035,987
(17.37%)

$1,237,970 $1,455,560
15,826,034 16,522,232
3,235,101
2,142,938
$19,206,942 $21,212,893
(52.35%)
(51.06%)
$37 ,618,218 $40,518,869

High grade bond issues represent 321h% of the market value of the portfolio,
and the average life of these issues is under 15 years. During the past twel~e
months prices of such bonds have declined approximately 14%, due to the historically extreme interest rates.

M. RICHARD ANDREWS
ARTHUR LINSK
CHESTER R. MACPHEE
ROBERT H. MASON
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL
COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES

Michigan Bluffs: Again this year the good Brothers of Eureka Lodge No. 16 of
Auburn have taken over the maintenance of this cemetery and have done a
commendable job. Prior to Memorial Day they cut the grass, repair the walkways
and do whatever is necessary to keep this cemetery presentable. Thank you, my
Brethren from Eureka Lodge.
Peter Lassen Gravesite: I am sorry to report that this property was neglected
this past year. Brother Basil Gillette made local arrangements for maintaining it
properly but unfortunately, the man did not infonn Brother Gillette that he was not
going to do it. This will not happen again this year, we have been assured by the
Inspector of that District.
Your Cemetery Committee is also charged with the responsibility of seeing that
Masonic Sections in commercial cemeteries are maintained in a manner to reflect
favorably on our Fraternity. We have had no complaint so we assume that they are
being so maintained .
We request a budget in the amount of $1300.00 next year as follows:
Columbia Cemetery
$ 225.00
Fiddletown Cemetery
250.00
Peter Lassen Grave
100.00
Jamestown Cemetery
125.00
Michigan Bluffs
100.00
Miscellaneous
100.00
Annual committee meeting in
Sacramento
200.00
Expenses for Grand Lodge
200.00
Total propose budget
$1300.00
We have no way of controlling or estimating vandalism . Should it increase, our
expenses will aiso increase .
Again, I want to express my appreciation and thanks to the men on my committee for their outstanding services rendered .
The committee as a whole gratefully acknowledges the support given to us by
the Grand Master, the Grand Secretary and their efficient staff.
Respectfully submitted
JOHN M . Sw AN , Chairman
BUCK R. NELSON
HUGH M. KELLOGG
BASIL R. GILLETIE
J. WARREN MANUEL

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F . & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Cemeteries submits the following report of their activities
for the Masonic Year 1973-1974.
The Cemetery Committee had planned on holding a meeting with all of it's
members sometime prior to Decoration Day in the library of The Masonic Temple
in Sacramento where we had held our meeting last year. It is my belief that for efficient operation it is essential that all committees hold at least one meeting a ye~r.in
order to compare and discuss mutual problems. However, due to the energy cns~s,
this meeting was cancelled, and we operated as best we could through long distance phone calls and correspondence.
The Committee allocations for the supervision and responsibility of those cemeteries where title is vested in Grand Lodge were the same as last year and are as
follows:
Columbia and Jamestown
Hugh M. Kellogg
Fiddletown
Buck R. Nelson
Michigan Bluffs
Lloyd von der Mehden
Peter Lassen Gravesite
Basil R. Gillette
Committee Secretary
J. Warm Manuel
All of these dedicated Masons did an outstanding job and merit not only my
thanks but also the thanks of all California Masons. With committee members like
these the chainnan has nothing to do.
Fallbrook: For the last several years, the report of this Committee has
enumerated at some length about all the problems of the Fallbrook Cemetery
Association. The Breach of Contract suit and the counter suit have been withdrawn . A new grove lease has been executed and the business of the Fall?rook
Cemetery Association seems to be operating smoothly. Some of the conflicts of
personalities still remain. However, it is my opinion that this too will pass. In the
meantime The Grand Master, the Assistant Grand Lecturer, the Inspector and
yours truly have one less headache. The members of Fallbrook Lodge are to be
commended for their devotion to Masonry which made this possible .
Jamestown: Considerable work was done at Jamestown last year and unless we
experience a lot of vandalism this coming year only routine spraying and clearing
of weeds will be required this year.
Columbia: Since this cemetery is located in Columbia State Park, it receives a
lot of visitors and requires more care and expense to keep it attractive.
Unfortunately, it also attracts vandals who love to tip over headstones which of
course have to be reset. The Future Farmers of America again took care of the
spraying and weeding at both Columbia and Jamestown and did an excellent ~ob.
Fiddletown: For many years, the Lodi Boy Scouts under the able leadership of
Brother Vince Lake, have taken care of clearing the weeds and spraying where
necessary at this cemetery. Our sincere thanks go to these grand young men a~d to
Vince Lake. Next year, due to vandals and time, we have some headstones to fix.

LLOYD VON DER MEHDEN

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

159

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
COMMERCIALISM

second section will be a positive and constructive approach to the conduct of the
ir;oncordant bodies of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California.
The third section will govern the conduct of the Shrine Charity Football games.
A number of charitable athletic events were reviewed by the Committee. The
audited financial statements of the Shrine Football games conducted in California
and Hawaii were submitted to the Grand Master and examined by the Committee,
with recommendations and conclusions reported to the Grand Master. In general,
all of these events have been well conducted, the costs and expenditures were
within reason and the net proceeds have been paid to the Shrine Hospitals.
Your Committee does not initiate investigations. Its activities originate with
complaints which are referred to the Committee. A member of the Committee is
assigned each complaint and after investigation, the final report is forwarded to the
Grand Secretary. Continual education of the Brethren will help to reduce the
number of complaints. If in doubt as to the legality of an affair, a letter to the Committee asking recommendations will further reduce violations and infractions.
Your Committee appreciates the helpful cooperation of the Grand Master, the
Grand Secretary and the Grand Lodge Officers. It has been a privilege to have
worked with each of them.
Respectfully submitted,
MARK E. SCHROCK , Chairman
JAMES J . DALTON
ROY E. ROSWURM

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

Your Committee on Commercialism herewith submits its report for the year
just ending.
Infractions of our laws, rules and regulations under the jurisdiction of this committee have been minor in nature. No Masonic trial resulted from any matter of
violation.
The infractions or violations have been handled through discussion and an understanding. Those in violation have agreed to cease and desist. Several examples
of items referred to the Commercialism Committee are as follows :
A Company, which sells a food product to organizations for fund raising
projects, recently sent letters to several of our Masonicly associated youth groups,
offering their product to those who might be interested. The letter was signed by
the President of the company, who also added his title of Past Master and listed his
Lodge name and number under his signature. After a discu~sion wit~ on~ of our
Committee Members , the Brother agreed that the use of his Masonic Title and
Lodge affiliation was not only a violation of the advertising section of the Masonic
Code, but was in poor taste, and he agreed not to use his title and Lodge name
again. The poetic justice of this case was , that the company did not make even one
sale from the distribution of this letter.
The square and compass is registered with the California Secretary of State as
the official insignia of the Grand Lodge of California, and its use is regulated by
the California Masonic Code and any individual wishing to use that insignia must
first obtain permission to do so from the Grand Master. Over the years, the_square
and compass has been used by individual Masons on business cards, stationary,
and in their advertising, but when approached by a committee member with the explanation of the Code violation, our members have agreed to cease and desist.
A new use of the insignia has cropped up this year on personal checks. After
discussions with several Banks, it was found that the check printing catalogs of
most all banks in California and Hawaii, offer hundreds of personalized monograms which can be printed on personal checks for their customers. Three cases
have been brought to the attention of the committee in the past few months and after a consultation with one of our committee members, the Brothers have agreed to
discontinue the use of the checks and have new ones printed. As a word of caution
to all Master Masons, if a personal check is noticed with the square and compass
printed on it, whisper good counsel in the Brother's ear.
The Committee met on April 6, 1974 for the purpose of drafting a Manual on
Commercialism. After a lengthy debate on the various aspects of such a Manual, it
was finally determined that one Manual would be unsatisfactory for the various
bodies that must conform to its policies. It is presently contemplated that three (3)
sections to the Manual will be proposed for adoption. The first section will be directed to the conduct of Lodge affairs and that of Master Masons living within the
jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California. The

CLARENCE GUFFEY

161

RICHARD ROBBINS
ALFRED B. COLLIER

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF CODE COMMISSION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M . of California:
The primary responsibility of the Code Commission is to prepare the pocket
supplement to the California Masonic Code each year . This work is done during
and shortly after the Annual Communication. Your Commission prepared and,
with the assistance of the Grand Secretary's Office, had published the supplement
following the 1973 Annual Communication . This required codifying the various
amendments, additions, and deletions to the Constitution and Regulations as well
as the selection and preparation of annotations from the Grand Master's Decisions,
the Grievance Committee report, and the reports of other Grand Lodge Boards and
Committees. The Code Commission will work at the 1974 Annual Communication to prepare the next supplement.
It is anticipated that the new revision of the California Masonic Code will be
published shortly and that this will necessitate one or two meetings of the Code
Commission in order to resolve the minor problems that inevitably arise with a new
revision. We would therefore request that our budget be increased to $1650.00 to
cover any necessary expenses .

162

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

163

Respectfully submitted,

FLORIDA

ANDREW J. NOCAS , Chairman

The Grand Master asked that Masons of his jurisdiction take a good look at
themselves because they were somebody's impression of Masonry. So they should
speak and act with their words and deeds so that the picture they present to others
would be a clear and bright reflection of the great lessons of our Fraternity.

ELTON L. TuRNER
Eow ARD J. GUIRADO

JOHN B. WATTS
RAYMOND B. HAIZLIP

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

IDAHO

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

Most Worshipful Grand Master, delegates, and distinguished guests , the
California Correspondence Committee, in addition to the Articles which are published from time to time in the California Freemason, submits an Annual Report to
the Grand Master for his consideration at the Annual Communication of the Fiscal
Year of his term as Grand Master.
The rights of conscience, the equality of all men before the Law, the separation
of Church and State, religious toleration, freedom of speech and of the press, public schools, are vital traditions of the American people. They are not brought in
question; they form the stock of firm and universal convictions on which our national life is based; they are ingrained into the character of our people and you can
assume, in any controversy, that an American will admit their truth . .. They are
never explicitly taught to us, but we assimulate them in our earliest childhood from
all our surroundings at the fireside, at school, from the press, on the highways and
streets . We never hear them disputed by the great majority of Americans. The fight
for Liberty and Rights can never let up. It is as right to stand firm forour Rights as it
is to do our duties. As men are made, Liberty and Rights do not descend from
heaven in a gentle shower, but have to be won and defended, day by day; but always under the Rules or Laws. As Masons we accept the foregoing principles
without question, knowing full well that as Masons we try to apply them in our
every day living to the end that as individuals we as well as our fellow man are
better qualified to carry on the traditions of Free Masonry.
Time does not permit references to every Grand. Lodge Jurisdiction, and accordingly our references for the most part will be brief and concise.
COLORADO

The Grand Master of Colorado does not agree with those who say that our prestige has fallen . It is his opinion that the Masonic prestige is as high , or higher than it
ever might have been, because that prestige is, and always has been based upon the
community acceptance of our activities and programs and upon morality and upon
rightness displayed by each individual Mason in our community.
CONNECTICUT

The Grand Master's program on Grand Master's day was called "Accent on
Youth" and featured singing groups , clowns and musicians from its Masonic
Youth groups.

The Grand Lecturer pointed out that to read the names affixed to the Declaration
of Independence is almost to call the roll of distinguished Masons of that time. Traditions say that Masons had an important part in the Boston Tea Party. George
Washington, Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, and John Hancock, to name a
few , were the authors of our heritage. It is to them that our debt of obligation to
carry on as free men under a constitutional government must be paid.
INDIANA

The Grand Master had much to say about the size of Lodges, except for the obvious economic factor. To all intents and purposes any membership of a large
Lodge over and above 315 members is of little value to the Lodge. Many Brethern
live far away, and of course can never attend, but the fact remains that although the
great rank and file could attend, they do not.

.

KANSAS

Ever since 1717, when the Grand Lodge of England was formed and began to
teach responsibility to responsible men, to be concerned with freedom and the
welfare of their Brethern, widows and orphans, Freemasonry has subscribed to the
Brotherhood of Man under the Fatherhood of God. There are over 26 Grand
Lodges in the ·united States which operate homes like the Grand Lodge of
California. Others engage in other forms of care for aged Brethern, widows and
orphans. Altogether a reliable estimate of the total amount of funds expended by
various Masonic agencies, Grand Lodges and affiliated groups currently aggregate
more than $35,000,000.00 per year. Crippled children hospitals operated by the
Nobles of the Mystic Shrine account for a considerable portion of this amazing total which is augmented by funds such as that of California. Under our Masonic obligations, we believe we are committed to the care of the unfortunate. Charity is
one of our fundamental obligations . Jn short we are our Brother's Keeper .
LOUISIANA

In our time,, a most important era in the history of man , the principles of
Freemasonry take on an additional significance. It is entirely possible that
Freemasonry, which played a primary role in the establishment of our Republic,
must eventually save it. We should rededicate ourselves to these principles.
MAINE

There are two problems, that are still problems in Lodges of Maine; namely
smoking in the Lodge halls before and after meetings, and the use of alcoholic beverages in Masonic Temples.

164

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

165

MARYLAND

KNIGHTS OF COLUMBUS

On September I Ith, 1973, the Grand Master granted a dispensation to
Amicable Lodge No. 25 to hold its regular meeting on board of the U.S. Frigate
Constellation. 175 years before, Amicable Lodge No. 25 had been granted its
charter by the Grand Lodge of Maryland. The City of Maryland was incorporated
and the ''Constellation'' our Nation ' s First Warship, was launched at Harris Creek
in Baltimore.

California Freemasonry has never been in controversy with the Roman Catholic
Church, nor has our craft taken official recognition of any of the pronouncements
against it by any church or anyone else. In recent years, both in Indiana and in other
parts of the nation, there has been a relaxing of the Roman Church's restraint, and a
ripening friendship between Masonry and the Knights of Columbus. Masonic
Lodges have entertained Knights of Columbus and their ladies . Knights of Columbus and their ladies have reciprocated and in many instances have been the ones
to make the first gesture of friendship. There are many similarities between the two
organizations: in our system of three degrees; in our efforts to help, aid, and assist
our less fortunate members; in our aims to improve the community through the
improvement of the individual member; in our active sponsorship of well rounded
and wholesome activities for the youth who come under the sphere of the
respective organizations.
The official publication of the Indiana Grand Lodge, "The Indiana
Freemason," has on occasion published articles written by ladies and spokesmen
of the Roman Catholic church and the Knights of Columbus . These articles .in
"The Indiana Freemason" have not only been complimentary to Freemasonry,
but have expressed pleasure at the bridge of friendship that is being built so carefully between the Grand Lodge of Indiana and the Knights of Columbus.

MISSISSIPPI

This Grand Lodge with the assistance of the local Lodges pays out between
$30,000.00 and $40,000.00 each year to the distressed Masons, their widows and
orphans.
MONTANA

This Jurisdiction has successfully tried to bring something of value to each
member and each Lodge.
NEBRASKA

Masons are taught to be good Citizens of the Country of which they are a part,
and it behooves our American Masons to pay particular interest at this time to good
government in our Country; taking a firm stand for the public schools as the first
defense against the divisiveness which periodically threatens our American Way
of Life.
NEW HAMPSHIRE

This Jurisdiction currently has two outstanding projects; the first is the publication of a new book entitled ''Three centuries of Freemasonry in New Hampshire.''
The second has been the Grand Lodge Masonic Homes Improvement Fund Drive.
OHIO

This Jurisdiction for 10 years has been engaged in an educational program, during which it has granted $400.00 cash to each of26 students in Ohio Colleges and
seminaries. Feeling that educational institutions are better qualified than the Committee of Ohio Grand Lodge to select deserving scholars, the awarding of the
scholarship has always been left entirely to the discretion of the scholarship boards
of the collegiate associations.
OKLAHOMA

In 1962 it was suggested by an Oklahoma Mason, that the Masonic Education
Committee should sponsor Masonic roadside signs, so that Masons traveling
through the state might know that a Masonic Lodge was in town and its location,
also the night on which it held its meetings . The program proved to be very successful, and Oklahoma now has Masonic Lodge signs throughout the State.

OREGON

The Masonic and Eastern Star Home of Oregon, Forest Grove, Oregon, established 1922 admits adults only . The Home is operated jointly by the Grand Lodge
of Oregon and the Grand Chapter, O.E.S. of Oregon. Master Masons, their wives
and/or widows and members of the Order of Eastern Star are accepted, provided
they have been members in good standing for ten years prior to their applications.
PENNSYLVANIA

The Masonic Homes of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, Elizabethtown,
Pennsylvania, established in 1913, admits adults and children . This large home is
located on a 15,000 acre parcel of land. A major commercial farm is conducted
there by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.
A much more elaborate article could have been submitted, but the subject
matter thereof would be cumulative, often repetitive. The Committee respectfully
submits this within report and requests that it be filed, and that the report insofar as
it requests for the next fiscal year a budget of $400.00, be referred to the Finance
Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE W . BURCH, JR., Chairman
ERNEST S. BLACK
J. WILSON GETSINGER
HERBERT M. ZECHMAN
HERBERT B. BLANKS

ROBERT N . NOLAN, JR.
RAYMOND F. ZAHM

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation) .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
CODE REVISION

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that with respect only to such proposed
revisions the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby relieved of compliance with
subparagraph 19th of Section 150 of the California Masonic Code except for
deposit of a copy of said revised California Masonic Code Annotated when
approved in the Grand Secretary's office and transmission of the copies thereof to
members of the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes
said copies to be made available on request for inspection by any member of Grand
Lodge, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this resolution be considered and adopted
as an emergent matter pursuant to Section 104 of the California Masonic Code.
Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Chairman

166

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Several meetings of this Committee together with Grand Lodge Officers and
appropriate Grand Lodge Chairmen were held during 1974 to make final corrections in the Code revision prepared by this Committee. On June 29, 1974 the
final meeting was held and the necessary corrections attende? to ..
In addition, your Committee has prepared a complete specification to ~e submitted to the printers for bids in the printing of our new revised Code. It is contemplated that several out of state bids together with Northern and Southei:n
California bids will be obtained. Unfortunately, a delay has been encountered m
making a final copy necessary to present to the printers for appropri~te bids. It is
contemplated that this will be corrected and we will be able to seek bids soon after
the conclusion of this Communication.
Because the Code was not printed this year this Special Committee should be
continued for the ensuing year and it is requested that a budget of $2,000 be app~o­
priated therefor. Later in the Communication an appropriate emergent resolution
relative to the revised Code will be presented.
Respectfully submitted,
HARLAN P. HUEBNER, Chairman
ANDREW J. NOCAS
JOHN B. WA TIS

ALLEN B . GRESHAM
RICHARD L. RIEMER

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

EMERGENT RESOLUTION -

CODE REVISION

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California
WHEREAS, the revised Masonic Code is not ready for submission to Grand
Lodge at the October 1974 Communication,
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that the draft of ~he proposed
Revised California Masonic Code Annotated prepared by the Committee o~ Code
Revision and representatives of the Committees on Jurisprudence and. Pohcy ~d
General Purposes, and representatives of the elected Grand Lodge Off1ce~s which
shall be approved by the elective Grand Lodge Officers, and by the Charrm7n of
the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes shall be printed
and shall become effective as the California Masonic Code Annotated when so
declared by the Grand Master, unless and until Grand Lodge at i~s ~nnual Communication in October 1975 fails to ratify in their entirety such rev1S1ons so approved
and declared.

ANDREW J. NOCAS
ALLEN B . GRESHAM

167

JOHN B. WAITS
RICHARD L. RIEMER

I have been authorized to report that the Committees on Policy and General
Purposes and Jurisprudence concur in this Emergent Resolution and urge a' 'Yes''
vote.
I move the adoption of the resolution.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
I
BRAZIL

Those who follow the report of this Committee will be aware of our general policy with respect to Brazilian Freemasonry. There are twenty-one State Grand
Lodges, of which eighteen have, over the years, sought fraternal relations with the
Grand Lodge of California. Investigations having proven that our tests for
recognition were met, all eighteen have been recognired by this Grand Lodge. No
such requests have been received from the three other State Grand Lodges, one of
whom, the Grand Loja do Estado do Acre, was recently established on August 20,
1973 through a charter issued by the Grand Loja do Amazonas e Territorios
Limitrofas seated at Manaus, which ceded the State of Acre to the new Grand
Lodge.
The correctness of our attitude towards the Grand Orient of Brazil has been
substantiated by a circular letter received July 9, 1974 from Brother Kurt Max
Hauser, Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations of the Grand Loja do Rio Grande do
Sul, who is an outstanding authority on Freemasonry in South America. Briefly
stated, it appears that last year a number of subordinate State Grand Lodges dissolved their ties with the Grand Orient of Brazil. The State Grand Lodges hoped
that this might be a settlement leading to some reunification but unhappily this has
not proved to be the case. Incidentally, Brother Hauser states unequivocably that

169

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the State Grand Lodges are not maintaining Treaties of Friendship with the Grand
Orient.
II
Otherwise, we can report, as we did last year, that harmony prevails among the
Grand Jurisdictions with whom we are in amity .
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY , JR., Chairman

remember some of our early teachings , for in every country and every clime Masons are to be found, we would then have the catalyst for spreading the word,
"THE CONSTITUTION IS FOR EVERYONE - LET'S GET INVOLVED. "
In closing, we would like to reaffirm the position of past Committees in recommending that Junior Past Masters be appointed to act as liaison with a Committee
representative in each District. We sincerely hope that the Constitution Program
for 1975 will be an even larger one with more outside organizations. Your
Chairman wants to express his sincere thanks to all Committeemen and
particularly to those few Lodges who have, for years, put on such an outstanding
program.
It is respectfully requested that this Committee be given a budget of $500 for
necessary expenses in 1975.
Respectfully submitted,
J. I. MENDENHALL, Chairman
JAMES TOMASINI
WARREN L. BACON

168

JAMES GRAHAM

WILLIAM J. WILLIAMS

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A . M. of California:
Again we have passed another milestone in our young history. Our Constitution
is 187 years old this past month and, in spite of all the trials and tribulations as to
what our forefathers meant in its language and which body of government answers
to which other bodies, we are still the United States of America. History is replete
with forms of government that were truly great, even world conquerors, that
crumbled because of lesser things than have happened to our government. Our
Constitution may have its weaknesses and certainly a flaw here and there but
nowhere on this earth is there to be found a better one.
Our Grand Master, who served so many years on this very same Committee, set
the tone of this year's events when he stated he wanted all Masons to strive to pass
the word, "THE CONSTITUTION IS FOR EVERYONE - LET'S GET INVOLVED." We have endeavored through the lnspectoral corp to have all Lodges
use their Lodge Manual which contains suggested guidelines on staging a successful Constitution Observance Program . We made available , for the first time , posters as well as pamphlets to be distributed at gatherings for the general public.
In reading and rereading the reports of Chairmen for the past decade, it is very
evident that we are faced with the same problems today that perhaps the framers of
our Constitution were confronted with. We talk today of lack of interest in any
given project, particularly if it is to arouse the public interest. So how do we
promote an intangible item that cannot be felt, seen, heard or bought at the local
discount store. We , as Masons , think we have the answer - tell as many other
people as possible, regardless of race, creed or sex, about this great document that
gives us all the basic freedoms that, to this very day, people are fighting wars to obtain. Again we ask, what were the thoughts of these men who wrote this great document? Were they , too , fighting for an aroused public for support? You can rest
assured they were!
In our year of 1974 then, we have set the theme for the big year to come. We
will shortly be celebrating our 200th anniversary and with this thought in mind, we
have strived to get as many as possible of our Brethren involved. Ifwe were only to

E ARLE C. ARBUCKLE
WILEY T. KILLINGSWORTH
JAMES E. CALHOUN
MEL VIN BAER
CARL DELANEY
JOHN E. NEFF
BOYD 0. KEARNEY
FRANKLIN B . BRASFIELD

JIM:MY T. MOORE
JAMES H. TANAKA
GERALD A. SHARER
DEAN AUNE
LESTER G. WILLIAMS
JAMES W. CAMPBELL
JAMES W . SHATTOCK
EUGENE GREGG
ROBERT E. MOFFITT

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON MASONIC INFORMATION AND RESPONSIBILITY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M . of California :
Following is the combined report of the Committee on Masonic Information
and Responsibility and its Subcommittees.
LODGE INFORMATION PROORAMS :

I) Masonic Workshops: We are continuing to assist the Lodges, and in some
cases groups of Lodges, in sponsoring workshops in areas of Masonic Education
other than Ritual. Activity this past year has necessitated considerable work in restaffing the Committee to better serve the entire jurisdiction. Workshops have
been held in cooperation with the Lodge Officers to promote and enhance the interest of the general membership in Freemasonry.
~) Lodge Forums: These were begun quite late in the year. It was necessary to
attam an area of agreement which related to a definition of the function of the Committee. After discussion with the Elective Grand Lodge Officers and other inter-

170

171

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ested parties, the basic fonnat and intent of these Lodge Forums ha-; been
determined.
The Committee has been working on this program since the middle of June,
1974, on a tentative basis. The continuance of this work will largely depend upon
the manner in which it is received by the Lodges. Since this activity is negotiated
on an individual basis directly with the Masters of the various Lodges, the actual
control of the Programs is vested in the individual Lodges, with the Committee
furnishing materials and assistance to establish the procedural fonnats.
3) Research Lodge Studies: In conformity to P.G.M. Myron E. Smith's directive of March 29, 1966, which became the Grand Master's recommendation
No. 5 and which was adopted at the Annual Communication in October, 1966, the
Committee has been reviewing all research Lodge material intended for publication, reviewing all correspondence contemplated with other Grand Jurisdictions
and has continued to regulate the display and sale of all approved Research Lodge
Publications. This has been accomplished under the able leadership of Chairman
David C. Lee. Generally speaking it is an editing assignment and one of constructive assistance. Occasionally a Jack of communication has presented
problems, but thus far it has always been possible to settle such problems with direct discussion and mutual understanding.
4) Public Relations: During the year varied programs have been presented to
Lodges, Service Clubs and School Groups. This has been accomplished by a dedicated group of Masons only indirectly related to the Committee under the
Chairmanship of C. Clifford Geddes. These programs have been presented primarily in the Sacramento Valley and Mother Lode areas.
5) Inter Grand Lodge Research: Guided primarily by Vice Chainnan Max H.
Rush, Jr., this work consists of a continuing correspondence and a close working
relationship with designated members of other Grand Jurisdictions. When the
Grand Lodge of California originates new material or when other Grand Lodges do
so, much information is mutually exchanged on various projects and their effects
on our respective memberships. Such material, when requested, is obtained for
one of the Grand Lodge Committees or for one of the Grand Lodge Officers and is
usually thereafter presented to the Grand Lodge Library for future reference and
study by those who might be interested.

of ma~ing avail~ble to every Lodge that recognizes a continuing relationship with
the widows of its deceased members, program material, and methods of knowhow, ~swell as the activities and experiences of other Lodges actively engaged in
the Widows Program. The Family Survivors' Information Booklet, now available
through the a.rand Lodge Su~ply Department, is the foundation of this Program.
Anyone looking through this Booklet will realize that the information to be
recorded in it, is an absolute necessity for the survivors of the deceased.
The Commi~ee owes a ~reat debt of gratitude to Grand Master Ebbage for his
suppoi:t ~nd assistance and 1f the Committee has been helpful to the Lodges of this
Junsd1ct10n, they should be cognizant of the source of its inspiration.
We have ~ad much assi~tance in our work from our Grand Secretary, M. W.
Edward H. Siems, our Assistant Grand Secretary, W. Verne W. Hendrix and the
Grand Lodge Office Staff. It is most necessary to make particular mention of this
help because this Committee requires a good deal more work of them than do most
Comf!1ittees: They assist in ed!ting, special f!1ailings and publications far beyond
what is req.mred of them. Possibly they do this to save money wherever practical,
but more hkely because of their dedication to and sincere interest in the cause of
Freemasonry.

MASONIC WIDOWS PROGRAM

Chairman Herbert W. Cahn has guided this Sub-Committee since its inception. He
has built it from a one-man operation to a sixty-five-man group. More than two
hundred California and five Hawaiian Lodges now enthusiastically participate in
this truly Masonic endeavor. This achievement is the more impressive when it is
realized that the change of Lodge Leadership each year necessitates a substantial
amount of'' re-selling'' this program to maintain a continuity within the Lodges. It
is not only that the responsibility for looking after our Masonic widows is a duty of
every Mason, but it is charity in the finest sense.
Our Widows Program has excited wide interest in other Grand Jurisdictions,
and the Committee has cheerfully cooperated whenever a request for help in
spreading this program has been received. However, the basic effort has been that

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM F. PoYNTER, Chairman
LOUIS I. GOLD KIND
MAX H. RUSH, JR.
C. CLIFFORD GEDDES
HERBERT W. CAHN
EMILE R. LAVERSIN
WILLIAM.J. BERRY
KENNETH B. CONKLIN
HAROLD GoODPASTURE
WILLIAM D. KNIGHT
MILTON E. AMMAN
WAYNEC. BATES
AL BROTHERTON'
AUBREY E. FRASER
NORMAN E. HALE
DAVID C. LEE

PHILLIP B. STONE
HENRY J. WOLKING
ELLSWORTH BECKMAN
DON BRENT
HAROLD COLEMAN
ROYE. CRAWFORD
ROBERT E. DOE
WILLIAM G. MARTIN
EMMET L. MCLACHLAN
JOHN D. RICHARDS
JAMESC. TARIO
DA YID WENTWORTH
GARNET RINGSMITH
FREDERICK BELL

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

172

173

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

This is shown by many letters of appreciation from students who have received
our grants, and we always have a back-log of approximately 100 applications waiting to be processed by our Scholarship Committee.
As will be seen from the above list of donees, however, our charitable donations for purposes other than scholarships have been significant. The $5,000.00 to
the Masonic Homes of California, a separate charitable corporation, was given,
for example, with the particular thought in mind that it would assist in the new construction and improvement program.
The DeMolay leadership training programs both for the northern and southern
jurisdictions have helped to provide opportunities for five young boys to become
even finer young men. Incidentally, $5 ,000.00 was voted by our Board to this program to start a fund in memory of the Most Worshipful Past Grand Master, Herbert
A. Huebner, whose untimely death occurred March 25, 1974. It is anticipated that
this fund will grow, and it will be our intention to add to it as funds are available.
The Scottish Rite Aphasia program is, of course, well known, and we have
received a most gracious letter of thanks from Most Worshipful Past Grand
Master, Henry C. Clausen, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, who states, "you
will see your presentation bring great benefits for humanity.''
The cleft palate program was adopted during the past year to assist Stanford
University Hospital in its program of research and care and treatment of children
who have been born with birth defects relating particularly to the palate. The
Doctors at Stanford University Hospital are pioneers in this field and the results
achieved there have been almost miraculous.
In conclusion, it can be seen that substantial progress toward fulfillment of the
goal of assisting and benefitting all mankind as provided in our By-Laws, has been
made. Admittedly, there is still much to do, but it is anticipated that during the next
fiscal year, throogh the dedicated work of our Board members, whose names appear hereafter, we shall make even greater progress.
Respectfully submitted,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Again it becomes my pleasant duty to report to the Officers and members of this
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge on the California Masonic Foundation, its
purposes, objectives, and plans for the future.
The governing body of the Foundation is a Board of Trustees, consisting of
fifteen (15) members, all of whom are required by our By-Laws and Articles oflncorporation to be members of Grand Lodge. The Officers are elected annually and
consist of a President, a Vice-President, a Secretary and an Assistant Secretary, a
Treasurer and an Assistant Treasurer. The Grand Secretary is also our Secretary
and the Grand Treasurer is our Treasurer.
Our assets consist of cash, notes secured by Trust Deeds, and investments in
bonds and stocks, all of which totalled as at the close of the fiscal year, June 30,
1974, approximately $1,089,000.00. Full accounting records are kept and maintained in the Grand Secretary's office and are open for inspection.
Total income last year was approximately $74,000.00, all of which was used for
charitable purposes, except such as was needed to defray necessary expenses for
accounting, stationery and supplies, printing and mailing, investment counsel,
and travel expenses of Trustees for attending meetings.
Charitable purposes undertaken during the year were as follows:
Educational grants
DeMolay Leadership Training
Cleft Palate Program at Stanford University Hospital
Grant to Masonic Homes for new construction program
California Scottish Rite Foundation to be used particularly for its
aphasia program

$32,850.00
$ 7,500.00
$ 5,000.00
$ 5,000.00

$ 5,000.00

Our scholarship program has, in our opinion, proven very successful. To
qualify, a student must send our Scholarship Committee a formal application, the
form of which will be supplied on request, containing information as to his grades,
his course of study, his financial need, where he wishes to go to school, etc.
Many of the students are recommended through local Lodges, in which case, if
the applicant qualifies and the grant is approved, an award ceremony is held at the
recommending Lodge to which the student's parents and relatives are invited, and
the check is presented by the Master or Inspector of the Lodge. Male and female
applicants are equally eligible.
The average award for one school year is $500. 00, but the student may be granted a similar award in a subsequent year. Often these amounts, although seemingly
small, are sufficient when added to the student's other available funds, to make the
difference in whether he can or cannot get an education.

JOHN S. HUNT, President
EVERETT HOUSER, Vice-President
PETE B. FLORIO
PAUL F. BALCK
EDWARD H. ROWINS
JOHN M. GORDON
ROBERT R. HOLT
CARL B. MUN CK

Adopted.

HAROLD L. HOLLINGSWORTH
MEL VIN A. PIXLEY
PAUL S. BOREN
RALPH A. LARSON
MON TAI LUKE
LOUIS CHAPO
JAMES WORTZ
BURTON MEYER JR.

174

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF DE MOLAY LIAISON BOARD

AFTERNOON SESSION -Tuesday , October 15, 1974

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

This Board, established by Most Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner at the time
that he was Grand Master, is the vehicle by which the Grand Master is infonned of
DeMolay activities . It operates only on the executive level through the Executive
Officer of the Jurisdiction of Southern California, Melvin A. Pixley, the Executive
Officer of the Jurisdiction of Northern California, John L. Wixon, and the Executive Officer of the Jurisdiction of Hawaii, Clifford H. Hinton of the Order of
DeMolay. On national matters it operates through the International Supreme
Council Order of DeMolay at Kansas City.
The DeMolay Liaison Board acts best when it has nothing to do. Such has been
the case during the past Masonic year, as there were no DeMolay problems to be
solved which would require the action of the Grand Master. Such contacts with Executive Officers and Committee Members as were necessary were by correspondence, face-to-face communication, or by telephone; consequently, no expenditures were made by the Committee this year. It is requested, however, that
$500.00 be budgeted for the coming year in the event that meetings of the Board
become necessary.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN F. ROBERTS, JR., Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON
MON TAI LUKE

GEORGE H . HIMES
RICHARD L. BRADEN
EDWARD H. SIEMS

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

At 12:00 Noon Grand Lodge was called off until I :30 P .M.

175

At 1:30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master Master presiding. The Invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Lodge Financing hereby submits its report concerning the
activities of that committee during the past Masonic year. Apparently, as a result
of the c~rren! status of the economy and the unusually high interest rates, the committee fmds itself to be somewhat less active than in prior years. It is to be noted
that the majority of the applications received by the committee concern repairs, alterations or modifications to existing Masonic Temples with a substantial decrease
in the number of new Temples being constructed and a like decrease in the number
of purchases of future Temple sites. Information concerning the specific
applications and the actions taken therein including actions taken at the annual
communications will be found in detail on the pages following this report and will
be included in the published proceedings .
The range of activities has again been varied covering applications to transfer
funds from the general funds of the Lodge to a Temple Association in return for either promissory notes or membership certificates in said association; applications
for expenditures for repairs and modification s of various types , i.e . air
conditioning, kitchens, dining rooms, etc .; applications for the purchase of vacant
properties and .improved properties; applications for approval of new Masonic
Te~ple. Associations and for reorganized Masonic Temple Associations ;
apphcatlons for approval of new loans or refinancing as well as applications for
approval of various long term leases.
In addition to the applications, which have been acted upon, many other
miscellaneous inquiries have been directed to members of the committee and we
have attempted to be of service to the brethren.
Numerous visitations were made by members of the committee to various
Lod~es, at their request, to advise and counsel with the brethren concerning
particular problems respecting Lodge and Temple Association matters. Your committee is always most happy to serve in this way and it is anticipated that in the
ensuing year many more such visitations will be made.
The various financial reports, as submitted by the Temple Association in accordance with Section 200 of the California Masonic Code, have also been forwarded to the committee and reviewed by them. These reports indicate the serious
problems that many Temple Associations are having in meeting their expenses,
particularly in the area of real property taxes . On the encouraging side the reports
d? ~ndicate a continued trend toward the establishment of a reserve for depreciation. It should become increasingly aware, however, that in today's rising economy the burden of maintaining Masonic Temples will continue to grow as the

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

operating expenses grow. This burden can for the most part be satis~~d only
through an increase in rents . The Lodges should-~ aw~re of the probab1hty th~t
such increases will be forthcoming. In all probab1hty this need m_ay also re~ult m
an increase in dues for the Lodges and the other bodies occupying space m the
.
.
.
Temples. This too should be recognized as a reality .
Your committee and particularly your chairman would like t? take this occasion
to express appreciation for the support and encouragem~nt given by our Grand
Master, the Most Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage and his cory>s of office~s. We
likewise acknowledge with gratitude the continued cooperation and assistance
provided by the Grand Secretary, Edward~- Siems an_d _the Assistant Gra~d Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix as well as by their most efficient and cooperative s_taf~.
The degree of dedication, cooperation and encouragement shown by t~ese md1.
viduals makes the privilege of serving our Grand Lodge most r~ward1~g.
While we on this committee see the financial problems of society mirrored m
the financial problems encountered by many of your Ma~onic Te_mples and
Lodges, we are convinced that Masonry will continue to make_ its mark m the community through the maintenance of the beautiful Masonic Temples located
throughout our jurisdiction.
BAKERSFIELD MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the expenditure of $25,000 by Bakersfield Maso~ic
Temple Association for the purchase of a vacant lot acress the street from the exIS. .
ting temple for use as a parking lot.
Consent was further granted to the expenditure by said Temple Association of
not to exceed $6,000 for leveling, paving and lighting the lot to ~ purchase~.
Consent was also granted to a transaction whereby Bakersfield Masomc
Temple Association will borrow $31,000 from the Bakersfield Scottish Rite Bodies, payable, interest only at 61h percent for one year, and $231.14 per month
thereafter.
ZENITH LODGE No. 768, F. & A. M.
ZENITH MASONIC LoDGE BUILDING ASSOCIATION
The incorporation of the Zenith Masonic Lodge Building Association and the
transfer of $100 from the general funds of Zenith Lodge No. 768, F . & A. ~- ~o
said Temple Association was ratified upon condition that a regular membership ~n
said new Temple Association be issued to Zenith Lodge No. 768, F. & A. M. m
return for the $100 so transferred.

YOSEMITE LODGE No . 99, F. & A. M.
MASONIC BUILDING ASSOCIATION OF MERCED
Consent was granted to the expenditure of not to exceed $~6,000 by the Masonic
Building Association of Merced for the purpose of remodelmg the lower level of
the existing Temple and to a revised lease with the City of Merced.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

177

MENLO PARK LODGE No. 651, F. & A. M.
MENLO PARK MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the expenditure of not to exceed $35 ,000 for necessary
iefurbishing of the existing Masonic Temple in Menlo Park.
Consent was further granted to the transfer of said $35,000 from the general
funds of Menlo Park Lodge No. 651, F. & A .M.
Consent was also granted to the negotiation by the Temple Association of a loan
from a member of the Lodge to cover the cost of such refurbishing.

BRAWLEY LODGE No. 402, F. & A. M.
BRAWLEY MASONIC BUILDING ASSN ., INC.
Consent was granted to the cancellation of an existing lease with Southern
California Gas Company and the execution by Brawley Masonic Building
Association of a new five year lease with Household Finance Corporation.

ST. HELENA LODGE No. 93, F. & A. M.
ST. HELENA MASONIC BUILDING ASSOCI1TION
Consent was granted to the expenditure by St. Helena Masonic Building
Association of the total sum of $4;135 for rewiring the existing Masonic Temple.

OXNARD MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the expenditure by Oxnard Masonic Temple
Association of the total sum of $4, 106 for the installation of two 5-ton air
conditioning units .

EAGLE ROCK LODGE No. 422, F. & A. M.
EAGLE ROCK MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Approval was granted to new Articles of Incorporation and By-laws for a
reorganized non-profit Masonic Temple Association .

MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF RICHMOND
Consent was granted to the expenditure by the Masonic Temple Association of
Richmond of not to exceed $100,000 for the construction of a dining room,
kitchen, additional locker space and additional parking at the existing temple.

179

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PLUMAS LODGE No . 60, F. & A . M.
THE PLUMAS MASONIC BUILDING ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the conveyance to The Plumas Masonic Building
Association of the existing Masonic Temple owned by Plumas Lodge No. 60, F. &
A . M. in exchange for a Certificate of Membership of appropriate value.

Consent is further granted to the expenditure by Athens Masonic Temple Assn .
of not to exceed $11 ,055 for repairs and modifications to the existing masonic
temple.

178

BURLINGAME MASONIC HALL ASSOOATION
Consent was granted to the expenditure by Burlingame Masonic Hall
Association of not to exceed $7,975 for remodeling of the existing Masonic
Temple .

VICTORVILLE LODGE No. 654, F. & A. M.
VICTORVILLE MASONIC BUILDING ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the expenditure by Victorville Masonic Building
Association of not to exceed $12,065 for the improvement and modernization of
the kitchen and dining room areas of the existing Temple.

WHITE PINE LODGE No. 555, F . & A. M.
WHITE PINE MEMORIAL MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOOA TION
Consent was granted the White Pine Memorial Masonic Temple Association
for the expenditure of $8 ,000 for the purchase of the lot and building at 1520 Center
Street (plus closing costs).
Consent was further granted to the expenditure by said Temple Association of
the sum of $2,800 for necessary remodeling of the building as purchased.
EL CAJON LoDGE No. 576, F . & A. M.
EL CAJON VALLEY MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the transferof$5,800 from the general funds of El Cajon
Lodge No. 576, F . & A . M . to El Cajon Valley Masonic Temple Association in
return for a promissory note or membership certificate in said association in like
amount.
Consent was further granted to the expenditure by El Cajon Valley Masonic
Temple Assoication of not to exceed $5, l 00 for the purpose of repairing the existing air conditioning system.

ATHENS LoDGE No. 228, F. & A . M .
ATHENS MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
Consent was granted to the transferof $12 ,000 from the general funds of Athens
Lodge No. 228, F. & A. M. to the Athens Masonic Temple Association in return
for an increase in an existing promissory note.

Respectfully submitted ,
RICHARD L. RIEMER, Chairman
BURDETTE J . MCKINNIS
KEITH V. JOHNSON
GEORGE C . BARRETT
VICTOR R. OLTMANNS
CLINTON]. MEADW AY
GEORGE W. STURM
PETER LEMOS
ROBERT W. CAMPI NI
Referred to Committee on Finance, (Budget allocation) .

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M . of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report covering the
125th Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
We wish to express to the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary and
their office staff our appreciation for their help.
We respectfully report that of the 679 chartered Lodges 676 are represented .
The total registration is made up as follows :
27
Grand Lodge Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9
Past Grand Masters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Past Senior Grand Warden ............ . ..... .. . . .. . .
Past Grand Lecturers .............................. .
1364
Officers and Represenatives.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1207
Past Masters, including the following.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Inspectors . . .... ...................... .. .. . .... 153
Committeemen . . . . . . ......... . ..... .. . . ..... . .. 199
P.M. - Secretaries .. . .. . ............... .. . . . . . . . 210
9
Grand Masters of other Jurisdictions . .... . . . . . ...... . . .
Grand Lodge Officers and Past Masters . . ... . . .... .. .. .
of other Jurisdictions . .. . .... ....... . .. . . ...... .. .
19
(including 4 Past Grand Masters) .. . . ..... ........ . .
2635
TOTAL .. ... . .................... ... ..... .
398
Master Masons (including 54 Secretaries) . .. . .. . ... .. . .
3033
GRAND TOT AL ................. . . .. ..... .
Respectfully submitted,
GLEN GLADSON, Chairman
THOMAS A. DURHAM, JR.
HARRY F. LUTTICKEN
ROBERT A. BUSH
GEORGE D. SHEPARD
WILLIAM R . HARRIS
ROBERT VANHEEKERN
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

180

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS

prepar~ng and computing the detail necessary for the functioning of this
Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
E. LLOYD HANSON, Chairman
DEAN H. DEWHURST
TED R. SIEMS

To theMost Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report covering the
125th Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his absence, the
ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master and Wardens, the duly Elected
Representative and Past Grand Masters, if they attend Grand Lodge in such capacity only. However, when a Master and Warden from the same Lodge are present at
an Annual Communication, and one of said Officers serves on a Grand Lodge
Committee entitled to travel and expense reimbursement, he shall be reimbursed
accordingly; the other Officer shall receive reimbursement under Section 174,
California Masonic Code, as the Officer representing his Lodge on the floor of
Grand Lodge.
Mileage from the various points within the State of California to San Francisco
has been taken from the published records of the California State Automobile
Association. Mileage from points in the State of Hawaii to San Francisco has been
taken from the published reports of air lines, in accordance with Sections 174 and
176, California Masonic Code. No compensation is allowed to members from San
Francisco or the immediate vicinity. Compensation of members from the State of
California has been computed on the basis of ten ( 10) cents per mile, the rate fixed
by the Committee on Finance. Compensation of the members from the State of
Hawaii has been figured on the basis of published first class round-trip air rates of
regularly scheduled major air lines, from Honolulu to San Francisco, plus interisland air fare to Honolulu, when necessary.
The payroll has been checked with the registration records as submitted to us by
the Committee on Credentials, and the amounts required to meet the transportation
costs for the 1974 Annual Communication are as follows:
Past Grand Masters (not on Committees) .................... $ None
Representatives of Lodges .................. : ......... $ 35,310.23
Total ....................................... $ 35,310.23
Checks will be ready for distribution at the Registration Desk on Thursday
morning immediately following the election of the Junior Grand Warden.
Brethren, if you are the Master or Warden representing your Lodge, or the duly
Elected Representative of your Lodge, the Pay of Members Committee urgently
requests you to promptly pickup your check.
Arrangements have been made so that those who wish to cash their checks may
do so at the United California Bank, Fairmont Hotel Branch. Your Grand Lodge
Credentials will serve as suitable identification.
We wish to express our sincere appreciation to members of the Grand Lodge
Office Staff for their cooperation shown throughout the year in assembling,

JACOB M. KARTZINEL
EDWARD A. FROWSKY

PAUL MCKINSTRY
KENNETH T. BARTLEY

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation).

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
COLUMBIA MASONIC TEMPLE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Due to a very wet and foggy winter, the Columbia Temple Committee met only
once this year, on June 2nd, to discuss the 1974-1975 budget, to check over the
Temple and to see if any improvements could be made.
We found the Temple to be in good condition and no improvements were
recommended.
Committeeman, Brother Jurgens, brought a paper and tape he had prepared on
Masonry, from the time it was introduced into the United States from England, until it came to the Mother Lode. This was revised and put on a tape for use in our
recorder in the Temple Museum.
During the year twelve Lodges used the Temple to confer degrees on their
candidates. We wish to thank them and hope that they and many others will continue to use the Temple.
The following is the budget for the 1974-1975 year.
PROPOSED BUDGET FOR THE
COLUMBIA MASONIC TEMPLE

1974-1975
FIXED CHARGES & EXPENSES
Utilities ......................... . $400.00
Miscellaneous Expenses ............ . 400.00
Burglar Alarm Service ............. .
96.00
Tape Recorder Service ............. . 100.00
Tuolumne County Taxes ............ .
80.00
Rental (Beaches & Parks) ........... .
1.00
Furnace - Insp & Service .......... .
50.00
Fire Extinguisher Service ........... . 150.00
Custodian ....................... . 900.00
TOTAL ........................ $2177.00

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM D . ARCHER , Chairman
GEORGE A . JURGENS
DONALD M . STEWART
PHIL V. DYBDAL
JOHN MENZIES

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON INSURANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge , F . & A. M. of California :
The Special Committee on Insurance continued to function in an ~dvisory capacity to the Grand Secretary and to be of aid to the Grand Master with regard to
Grand Lodge insurance matters.
The members of the Committee met to discuss and evaluate the current
insurance program for Grand Lodge and related entities. No new recommendations were made.
The " Loss Record Register" continues to be maintained and serves as a valuable tool to summarize losses that have occurred and permits corrective action to
be taken to reduce similar losses in the future.
The continued favorable loss experience with regard to Workmen's Compensation insurance resulted in a $32,829 dividend.
The Masonic Homes became self-insured with regard to unemployment
insurance. To reduce the possibility of a serious financial loss to Grand Lodge of
California in the event of a catastrophy, a ''Unemployment Reimbursement Coverage" policy was purchased.
. ..
The Committee commends the members of the md1 v1dual Lodges, and managers and employees of our Masonic properties for their conscientious efforts in
maintaining our properties in a safe manner, thereby reducing the number of
losses .
A sincere "thank you " to the Grand Lodge office staff and to all others who
have been so cooperative and helpful to this Committee during the past year.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE E. FRANK, Chairman
JOHN R. McKEE
ALFRED T. FLOYD, JR.
ELMER C. GUNTHER
HENRY W. SCHEUR
Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

GRAND ORATION
A FLICKERING FLAME?
WALKERS. KISSELBURGH, Grand Orator

Most Worshipful Grand Master, Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters,
distinguished guests and my Brethren:
Last year at this time you listened to an excellent Grand Oration en~i~led ''.The
Time is Now.'' This message stressed the point that there have been cnucal times

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

in our American Masonic History when our forefathers rose to the occasion and
brought our esteemed institution out of atmospheres of despair.
Let us, at this moment , continue on with this subject because one year later we
are still in a critical era so far as our honored fraternity is concerned . This critical
era concerns every one of us and we, like our forefathers, are going to have to do
what they did. They did not sit idly by and allow their ~onored fraterriity to die.
They rose to the occasion, rolled up their sleeves and went to work. In reality they
became "operative" Masons who built their Lodges.
Our Masonic forefathers have left us a tremendous heritage. The Masonic
heritage that we leave to our children and the Masons of the future should be held in
the same reverence with which we hold our Masonic forefathers.
The events that have transpired these past few months have shocked and
saddened all of us . We have seen men in our government who have abused their
power and thought they were above the law . And yet , as in the past, we will overcome these setbacks and go on to greater heights, because this is the American
way. Now, more than ever, we must arise to the occasion and provide leadership
- the likes we have never seen before.
Our fraternity, like our government, is indestructable and we will provide
leadership in our Lodges to continue this indestructability .
You Brethren sitting in the Grand Lodge Communication today are the ones to
whom we are addressing our remarks. You are the leaders of our Lodges and it is
on your shoulders that rests this tremendous responsibility of providing the leadership we need.
Our Lodges are crying out for inspired leadership. If you can provide it for
them, they will respond . They will respond so enthusiastically that you won't believe it.
To provideihis leadership, you must have confidence in your ability to lead .
You must pass on your enthusiasm and leadership to your junior officers so that
when they occupy the station of Worshipful Master, they will have been properly
indoctrinated.
My Brethren, along with leadership will come pride. Pride in your Lodge,
pride in your work and most important, pride in yourself. With pride and leadership you will be able to perform miracles. Our Masonic forefathers had a great
deal of pride in their Masonry and furnished leadership that is an inspiration to all
of us.
In the early days, the Masonic Lodge was the focal point or hub of social activities . And Masons looked forward to attending Lodge every week because they
enjoyed the fellowship and activities that it provided. However, this attendance
has suffered drastically this past 25 years due to competition from other interests.
And when these other interests become more important than the Lodge, then it is
only natural that our fraternity will suffer.
To improve attendance in your Lodge today is a mountainous task and yet it
must be done to stimulate the Masonic spirit and to keep our institution in a healthy
and enviable condition. This can be done with proper leadership. We must be constantly on the lookout for future leadership in our Lodges because it is most
important that we have continuing leadership. Not all members of our Lodges are
leaders, and we must make a diligent search for this leadership.

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Perhaps he might be a Brother who joined your Lodge several years ago and
was too busy to become a junior officer at the time he joined the Lodge. Contact
this brother and see if he is available today.
There have been isolated cases where a Brother was put into line as Senior
Deacon or Junior Warden, when he did not have eight or nine years to devote to his
Lodge as an officer because he was too busy at the time. Of course, this must be
done with the cooperation and complete harmony of your fellow officers. But the
important thing to remember, Brethren, is the best interest of your Lodge. If you
can get an outstanding Brother with excellent leadership qualities to agree to go
into the line and become Worshipful Master in three to four years, you should
make every effort to encourage him. This can be the first step in bringing your
Lodge up to its capabilities.
The second step deals with the most important word in the English language
- communication. Somehow, in the past, it has been communicated to us that
Masonry is a secret society and that all of our work is done in an atmosphere of
strict secrecy. First of all, let us remove from our minds that Masonry is a secret society. It is not. We must remove this stigma if our fraternity is to properly grow,
and Brethren, it must grow if it is to survive and remain in a healthy condition.
Let us go back, for a moment, to the coaching of our three degrees. If you
were like me, your coach impressed upon you that what you are learning should
not be revealed to anyone. Because you believed your coach, who most likely was
a newly raised Master Mason, you have not revealed anything to anyone. In other
words, we are never told what we can reveal, so for the fear of revealing something, we don't reveal anything.
Let each of us here in this great Grand Lodge pledge that we will educate ourselves so that we, the leaders, will be able to communicate with our Brethren especially the candidate's coach. Then they will be able to pass this communication on to the candidate. The Candidate's coach is the most important liaison
between the Lodge and the candidate. Let us do everything within our power to
remove the lid of secrecy concerning those Masonic tenets which are not esoteric.
In other words, if Freemasonry is good, let's talk about it. Past Grand Master
William H. Price, in his message to the 1973 Annual Grand Lodge Communication said in part, "there is so little about Masonry which is secret, I cannot
comprehend why this condition continues to prevail."
My Brethren, as you leave this hall you will be handed a pamphlet prepared by
our Past Grand Master Theodore Meriam, entitled, "If Freemasonry is good, let's
talk about it.'' Please, as leaders and future leaders of your Lodge, read this pamphlet. We urge you to distribute it to your members, especially your candidate's
coaches. Additional copies of this pamphlet may be obtained from the Grand Secretary's office. As leaders of your respective Lodges, you owe it to your
membership to educate them about what is secret and what is not. Let us all be
knowledgeable about what we can talk about regarding our institution.
This leads to the third step which is selling Freemasonry through our talk and
actions. In other words, once again, we must communicate. To be able to communicate is an art and we must be artists at our craft. And we must work at our craft today more than we have ever done in the past. In this day and age of electronic com-

munication, with the most sophisticated equipment ever divised by man, we
Masons must be able to communicate better with our fellow man regarding the
subject of Freemasonry. We must, if we are to survive as a fraternity .
Most of us are certainly knowledgeable about the fact that Masonry has been
on the decline for the past several decades. Yet, we are reluctant to do something
about it. Like our forefathers, we must accept the challenge, put our shoulders to
the wheel, and reverse this downward trend. Each one of us must accept the
responsibility of keeping our age old fraternity in a healthy and prosperous
condition. We can do this by communicating about Freemasonry. The foundation
of Masonry is that you must be a good man to become a member. However, not all
good men are Masons. We, therefore, are not communicating with these good
men.
In our communications we must put across these several points. Number one
-you will not be asked to become a Mason. How many times have we heard men
say: "I would have become a Mason long ago but I was waiting to be asked."
Number two - Our fraternity is not a religious organization . Our one and only
religious requirement is that you must believe in a Supreme Being. Number three
- Our fraternity is not a secret organization. There are many things that we can
discuss outside of the Lodge room. For example, we can discuss with anyone that
our organization stands for everything that is good. The teachings of our craft
should be well known to everyone - but in order for this to happen, we must communicate. However, in our communication we must be completely understood.
Remember what happened to the village blacksmith who was holding a horseshoe
with both hands and told his not-too-bright son- ''when I nod my head, son, hit it
with a hammer." My Brethren; this is communication but it is misunderstood. Let
us not have any misunderstanding in our communications about Freemasonry.
Talking as.Masons and acting as Masons is the most important way to get a
friend or an acquaintance of yours to say: "How do I become a Mason?" or "I
want to be a Mason."
We are judged by our words and actions. Therefore, let us, everyone of us,
know by our words and actions that we are Masons .
Talk about your Lodge - brag about your Masonic beliefs. Let everyone
know that all Masons are good men, and that we make better men out of these good
men. Let everyone know that you stand for the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of God. In communicating with our friends, our next door neighbors, our
casual acquaintances, we can be so enthusiastic about being a Mason, that it could
trigger a chain of events. Because you are proud and because you enjoy Masonry
so much, and mostly by your upright and outstanding conduct, your exposure to
your friends or neighbors could stimulate a desire in them to become Masons.
Therefore, we must constantly communicate. Know what you can talk about.
Knowledge is power. Our great Masonic fraternity can be a powerful influence in
the future, just like it has been in the past.
Masonry is the foundation of our government; Our Masonic forefathers, who
were the signers of the Declaration of Independence, made sure that that document
contained our Masonic principles. This famous document has survived for two
centuries and just recently was tested and found to be unshakeable. It has proven
resilient, able to survive and eventually overcome the ordeal of recent scandals.

184

186

187

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Many of our government leaders of today are Masons, and as long as we have
that kind of leadership in our country, there is hope and trust that our government
will endure. No other form of government has endured this long. And if we the
people become concerned about good government- then we can endure for many
more centuries to come. Our government may not be perfect, but it is the best that
man has ever devised.
In closing, my Brethren, let me emphasize the seriousness of the situation.
We must stop the declining membership and we must furnish our Lodges with
inspired leadership. All over these great United States we are faced with the same
problem. If our wonderful Masonic fraternity is to continue, we must, each one of
us, pledge ourselves to do everything that we can possibly do to improve its
condition. Let us, like our Masonic forefathers, make sure that the flickering flame
of Freemasonry once again becomes a bright beacon for those who follow us.
Thank you.

with the Grand_ Lodge Constitution Observance, Youth Activities, and Public
Schools Committees, and we have endeavored to do this.
On December 5, 1973, a joint letter was written by the Senior Grand Warden
Jo~ F. Roberts, Jr., and the Chairman of the Bicentennial Committee to all in:
co~g Masters and W~dens of the California and Hawaiian Masonic Lodges
urgmg the~ to develop m the area of each Lodge a Bicentennial Celebration Progr~ of ~herr ~wn, p~ferably to be climaxed in the month of September, 1976 in
conJUn~t10n with therr local C~nstitution Observance Program; for your Commit~ beheves that local Masonic observances in 1976 of the Bicentennial event
ought well be held in conjunction with the September, 1976 Constitution Obs_ervance pro~rams of ~he various Masonic Lodges, although, of course, any other
time or date m 1976 is appropriate.
Since ~ast. reporting to you in October, 1973, at the California Grand Lodge
C.ommumcatl?n of th~t year, the following California Masonic Lodges have adv1s~ that a ~1centenmal Committee and chairman have been appointed in each of
therr ~spect1ve ~odges a~d that the~ now are working upon and planning an appropnate 1976 B1centenmal_ Celebration for the Lodge, or in conjunction with other Lodges, concordant bodies .• and organizations:

REPORT OF THE BICENTENNIAL COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California

Upon taking office in the Fall of 1973, the Most Worshipful Grand Masterof
the Grand Lodge of California, Raymond A. Ebbage, reappointed the following
Paster Masters (who have served since the Committee's inception in 1972) to continue to serve upon the Grand Lodge Bicentennial Committee: Lester S. McElwain
(403, Past Grand Master, Chairman, Elmer P. Bromley (698), Richard H. Chamberlain (521), WalterW. Powers (579), and Edward G. Van Pelt (778). The Grand
Master, also, appointed Donald Ingalls, Past Master of North Hollywood Lodge,
No. 542, and William Lambert, Past Master of Nevada Lodge, No. 13, as additional members of the Committee. The Senior Grand Warden, Right Worshipful
John F. Roberts, Jr., also was again appointed as the Committee's Liaison Officer
with the elective California Grand Lodge line of officers. Worshipful Brother Donald Ingalls previously had been serving as a consultant to the Committel~.
All of the Committee members have worked long and well together during the
past year, and each has carried out his assignment promptly and effectively.
The purpose of this Committee was and is to encourage the Craft Lodges in our
jurisdiction to recognize the importance of and now plan a program for a
celebration in 1976 of the two hundredth anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence from England on July 4, 1776. This great document was
drafted and signed by many of our earlier Brother Masons.
No Masonic Bicentennial Program in 1976 commemorating that great event is
contemplated upon a national basis; for the Conference of Grand Masters of North
American previously determined in 1969 and 1970 that each Grand Lodge
jurisdiction should be responsible for and conduct its own program for appropriate
Bicentennial celebrations during 1976.
The members of your Committee believe that, in accordance with the purpose
for which the Committee was appointed, the members thereof should work closely

Five Points Lodge, No. 779, Long Beach;
Lon~ Beach Lodge, No. 327, Long Beach;

Oasis of Mara Lodge, No. 735, Twenty Nine Palms;
Yucca V~ley Lodge, No. 802, Yucca Valley;
Pal~ Spnngs Lodge, No. 693, Palm Springs;
Coalinga Lodge, No. 387, Coalinga;
San Mateo Lodge, No. 226, San Mateo;
Temple Lodge, No. 14, Sonoma·
Inglewood LOdge, No. 421, Ingl~wood;
West Adams Lodge, No. 565, Culver City;
James H. Kew Lodge, No. 766, Inglewood·
'
Sojourner Lodge, No. 607, Duarte;
Diego;
San
296,
No.
Silvergate Lodge,
Crossroads Lodge, No. 696, San Diego;
Clairemont _Mesa Lodge, No. 799, San Diego;
Normal Heights Lodge, No. 632, San Diego;
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95, Sutter Creek·
Santa Barbara Lodge, No. 192, Santa B~bara·
'
Semper Virens Lodge, No. 552, Eureka;
Delta Lodge, No. 471, Stockton; and
Elk Grove Lodge, No. 173, Elk Grove.
. Similar, although different, letters also were written by the Bicentennial Committee as follows:
To all fifteen Scottish Rite Bodies in California and Hawaii·
To the ~esident of the California State High Twelve Clubs;
To all eight P~tentates of the various Shrine Temples in our Jurisdiction;
To the three highest Grand York Rite Officers in this State·,

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the Executive Officers of both Northern and Southern California, Order of
DeMolay;
To the Grand Guardian, International Order of Jobs Daughters;
To the Supreme Deputy, International Order of Rainbow for Girls;
To the Worthy Grand Matron, Order of Eastern Star; and
To the Grand Royal Matron, Grand Court, Order of Amaranth.
In addition, the Grand Master, Most Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage, on
February 11, 1974, wrote to all Inspectors in our Jurisdiction and requested their
cooperation in assisting the Lodges under their supervision with their respective
1976 Bicentennial programs .
Replies to the aforementioned letters have been received and the following information was set forth therein :
The San Bernardino Scottish Rite Bodies is planning to present its patriotic
play, "Fine Men," at a National Square Dance convention in the Anaheim Convention Center in June, 1976, as well as a second patriotic play at a later date in
1976;
The Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies plans to present in its beautiful temple the
inspirational play, "The Making of the Constitution," on Friday evening, September 17, 1976, the anniversary of the signing of our United States Constitution,
and all Masons and their friends will be and are invited to attend;
The California Scottish Rite Bodies of San Francisco have arranged to present
the outstanding play, ''Architects ofFreedom,'' on Saturday night, September 18,
1976, in the magnificent California Masonic Memorial Temple on Nob Hill, to
which all Masons and their friends will be invited;
The Junior Warden of the Los Angeles Lodge of Perfection, who probably will
be the Venerable Master of that Lodge of Perfection in 1976, has written that he
and the Los Angeles Scottish Rite Bodies will cooperate with the Grand Lodge Bicentennial Committee to develop a Bicentennial observance in 1976 worthy of the
great event of the signing of the Declaration of Independence, and he and those
Scottish Rite Bodies are already formulating plans to that effect;
The Long Beach Scottish Rite Bodies are planning and hope in 1976 to have its
degree team simulate in costumes of the times the First Degree of Masonry as it
was conferred on Brother George Washington on November 4, 1752, at
Fredericksburg, Virginia;
The Al Malaikah Shrlne Temple of Los Angeles is planning many Bicentennial
activities under the theme of "The Spirit of '76";
The Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons, of the York Rite has appointed one of
that Bodies' Grand Officers to chair Bicentennial Committee activites, and the latter personally has assured the Committee that the Royal Arch chapters of the York
Rite throughout California will be encouraged to properly celebrate the Two
hundredth Anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence;
The Southern California DeMolay organization already has alerted its members
to the importance of planning appropriate celebrations in 1976 in honor of the signing of our Declaration of Independence on July 4, 1776; and the Executive Officer in Northern California for the Order of DeMolay has advised that he will
appoint a Bicentennial Committee for Northern California DeMolay to develop ac-

tivity in that area in regard to celebrations in 1976 of the Two hundredth Anniversary of the Declaration of Independence;
The Grand Officer, who will be Grand Royal Matron of the Grand Court, Order
of the Amaranth in California during 1976, has written that she and her
,,-ganization will take the necessary action to insure that in 1976 the date of July 4,
d.776 is "commemorated with honor and dignity";
The State President of the California Association of High Twelve Clubs has
written that their association's state-wide committee on Objectives and Projects is
working on plans for their organization to have a Bicentennial Celebration in 1976,
and that the Second Executive Vice President of the California Association of
High Twelve Clubs will be the chairman of their State committee in this regard;
The Assistant Rabban of El Bekal Temple of the Shrine at Long Beach, who
likely will be the Potentate of that temple in 1976, has advised that in 1976 he plans
for El Bekal Temple ''a full year 1976 program relating to our American Heritage,
including a 'See America' trip in September";
The Potentate of Aloha Temple of the Shrine at Honolulu, Hawaii, has written
that the Assistant Rabban of that Temple, who is a Past Master of a Honolulu Masonic Lodge and who probably will be the Potentate of Aloha Temple in 1976, has
been appointed as the Chairman of that Temple's Bicentennial Committee and that
it is a certainty that a special observance of the Bicentennial anniversary of the July
4, 1776 event will be held in Honolulu;
The Assistant Rabban of Tehran Temple of the Shrine at Fresno, who
undoubtedly will be the Potentate of that Temple in 1976, and who now is the Vice
President of the Western Shrine Association, has written that arrangements have
been made for Fresno to host the Western Shrine Association in 1976, which will
be known as the Bicentennial Western Shrine Association, and that on Saturday,
March 22, 1976., Tehran Temple will stage an outstanding patriotic parade, which
will be conducted as part of an appropriate Bicentennial celebration at that time;
and
The Committee, also, has been informed by the Inspector in charge of the Masonic Lodges in the Stockton area that the Masters and Wardens Association of
Stockton is coordinating an appropriate Bicentennial Celebration in that City for
all of the Masonic Lodges there under the leadership of the Junior Warden of Delta
Lodge, No . 471, who is reported to be very enthusiastic about his assignment to
head the Bicentennial Committee of the Stockton Masters and Wardens
Association.
As many of you may have noticed when receiving mail from the Grand Secretary's Office, the California Grand Lodge now proudly displays on all of its eniVelopes opposite the postage meter stamp in a red-outlined rectangle the figures
1776 and 1976 separated by the picture of a Masonic pin and the Liberty Bell,
above which are printed the words, "Proudly We Hail," and below which is the
printed word, "Bicentennial." Further at the left of the envelope is a picture of a
llevolutionary War Soldier and a modem United States Soldier, with each holding
our flag, ''the Stars and Stripes,'' as of the respective time of the uniforms then
worn, with the word, "Bicentennial" emblazoned underneath. Those members of
Grand Lodge who have viewed this new envelope wilh its splendid reminder of the

189

190

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

coming Bicentennial event have every right to be pleased and proud of the publicity which such envelopes generate in regard to the Bicentennial Celebration in
1976 of the signing of the Declaration of Independence .in 1776.
The new Editor-In-Chief of the California Freemason, Ralph H. Head, Past
Master of Sunset Lodge, No. 352, has suggested that future issues of that outstanding publication should carry and he has stated that he plans to publish an
article in each issue which will tell the importance of the "American Story;" for,
as stated by him, the Bicentennial will present a great opportunity to California
Lodges to make their presence known in their communities.
The Grand Chaplain, Dr. Earl C. Evans, has suggested that all of us Accent the
Positive and look at the good in individuals, institutions, and our Country. In other
words he suggests that we recognize, stress and publicize the good things and
many benefits the Constitution and our form of government give to all of our people; and also we should be sure to encourage others to look for the good in America
and praise it. Of course all is not perfect; but there is so much that is praise-worthy
- let's all talk about and praise the many good things in America.
After this communication, in early November of this year, another joint letter is
planned to be sent to all present Senior Wardens (the incoming Masters) by the
then Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master and the chairman of the Bicentennial
Committee urging the incoming Masters to bring their Bicentennial plans to an appropriate conclusion in 1975, so as to be ready for an exciting charge upon the
planned program in 1976.
Finally and in conclusion your Committee's plans for an outstanding and
inspiring celebration of the Bicentennial event in Los Angeles on Sunday, July 4,
1976, are continuing to develop well. The Los Angeles Sports Arena (near the Los
Angeles Coliseum where ample parking for vehicles is available) has been
reserved and leased forouruse onJuly4, 1976. ThereducedrentoftheSports Arena on this occasion is $3,000.00, and one-half of that sum already has been paid to
assure its use by us on that date. The balance of the rental charge will be paid at a
later date. This Sports Arena will comfortably accommodate between 16,000 and
17 ,000 persons, and we anticipate that it will be filled on this occasion, for we believe that our program on July 4, 1976, will be outstanding. There will be no admission charge, and all Masons, their families, Concordant Bodies, and friends
will be welcome and urged to attend. We should have a very pleasant, interesting
and exciting fraternal gathering there with our Brethren and friends, for we expect
the Sports Arena to be filled to capacity with standing room only for those who
arrive late.
The program has been entitled "Freedom On Trial" and is being written,
produced, and directed by our own Don Ingalls, Past Master of North Hollywood
Lodge, No. 542, a top motion picture producer and director, whom you will recall
gave us that beautiful inspiring talking motion picture about our great Masonic
fraternity entitled, "Journey Into Truth." Those of you who have heard and viewed this fine talking film know of the high caliber of Don's work, which assures us
that the July 4, 1976 Los Angeles Bicentennial Program will be outstanding and
thoroughly enjoyed by all who see it.
"Freedom On Trial" will be a program put together in an exciting manner
depicting events and dealing with, in chronological order, various important

episodes which occurred in the development and throughout the history of our
Country, the United States of America. Those participating in the program will be
dressed in the clothes and costumes of the times in an effort to capture the spirit and
attitude of those great individuals who gave so much of themselves in their efforts
for their Country, our Nation, which now is our great and wonderful heritage.
Life in a struggling America, and even up to modem times, often was and is not
easy, and we must never forget that Freedom is never easy - it is always on trial;
but in this Country under God's benign blessing, Freedom (while often forced to
strUggle) has flourished and always triumphed. However, in order to have
freedom, we must always remember that continual vigilance is required to insure
that the torch-light of freedom never goes out, for Freedom is always on trial- we
can loose it, if we are not vigilant. Thank God for Masonry, its members and
principles; for Masons always have been in the vanguard to uphold the rights of the
individual and Freedom for all, no matter what the effort or trial involved.
The Committee requests a budget of $3 ,600. 00 to carry on its work during the
coming Masonic year.
Respectfully submitted,
LESTER s. MCELWAIN, Chairman
ELMER P. BROMLEY
EDWARD G. VAN PELT
DONALD INGALLS
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
WALTER W. POWERS

WILLIAM LAMBERT

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation).

IJ.EPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE
TO PREPARE GRAND LODGE HISTORY PUBLICATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In 1971 Grand Master Herbert A. Huebner recommended that a comprehensive

history be compiled centering around the Grand Lodge and that it cover the 125year period 1850 to 1975. He further suggested that the history be published in
time for the Bicentennial Celebration of the United States in 1976.
The Committee has completed the final draft of the manuscript covering the
years through 1973. The events of 1974 and 1975 will be written and included in
the completed publication.
The 300-page·volume has been written in easy-to-read style and covers many
outstanding events in the development of our Fraternity and the unselfish contributions of its leaders. Numerous historical pictures and documents are being
processed and are to be interspersed throughout the book.
The first printing is to be limited to 2000 copies and will be available at our next
Annual Communication in October 1975.
The production costs have been estimated to be $10.00 to $12.00 per copy and it
is expected that this cost will be offset by income from sales.
We are grateful to Most Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage and his Officers for
their encouragement and assistance in this project.

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee requests an appropriation of $700.00 for the completion of its
assignment.
Respectfully submitted,
EDWIN N. STANSEL, Chairman

This being my final report on behalf of the Public Schools Committee, I would
like to give my heart-felt thanks to all those great, hard-working Masons who have
served with me during the past seven years.
Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD H. DUTWILER, Chairman

CHARLES C. HUSHA W

RAYMOND A. JACKSON

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation).

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Since Grand Lodge has been shortened by one day this year, I will make this report as brief as possible.
The slogan for Public Schools Month this past year was "Public Education the Foundation of Democracy" and was well received. The slogan chosen by the
Deputy Grand Master for the coming year is "Public Schools - Freedom's First
Fronter" and we trust that this will be equally well received.
During the past year there was a tremendous increase in the number of pamphlets furnished to the Lodges when 131,747 were distributed. In addition, 2,347
certificates of appreciation were presented by the constituent Lodges.
On the legislative front we had great support from a three judge Federal Court
declaring California's Parochial Law AB 1724 unconstitutional. This law would
have provided for a tax credits of from $25. 00 to $125. 00 per pupil in religious and
other private schools. Further rockets could have been sent up in June of this year
when the Supreme Court further limited State aid to parochial schools.
We must not relax, Brethren as these bills to aid non-public schools will be
coming up to the Legislature with increasing frequency.
For the second year we, as a Committee, asked the Lodges to complete a report
on their public schools observance and the similarity of the results is almost
identical:
In 1974, if a Lodge begins planning:
IN
The Chances of Success Are:
69%
The Previous Year
January
52%
February
50%
March
43%
20%
April
These statistics point out our long-standing assertion that the earlier a Lodge begins planning the better its chances of having a more successful observanc~.
Brethren, give your Lodge a chance. Begin early to plan your successful Pubhc
School Observance.
The Committee is still committed 100% to changing back from Public Schools
Month to Public Schools Week and has introduced Resolution No. 2. You will
hear more about this at the proper time.

CLYDE M. STINE
LAURENCE C. COOK
WILLIAM E. ZIMMERMAN
MILTON M. RUBIN
GEORGE HESS
RODGER D. SIEMS
DARROL E. DA VIS
PHILIP c. REINER
RICHARD A. HEBERT
DANA A. TURPIN
RAYMOND C. REEDER
DEAN L. SHIVELY
EDWARD W. MYERS

193

PAUL H. C. CHUNG
MICHAEL S. HANSEN
HARRY E. HIRAOKA
RICHARD L. GANDT
ROLAND 0. HUGHES
ROBERT KERR
DONALD R. KIDDER
CLARENCE b. HOBSON
HARRY L. HIBLER, JR.
HowARD
FISHER
LAFAYETTE W. MEAD
DoNALD H. SLATER
J. R. THRASHER

s.

Consultant:
OSCAR ANDERSON

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
YOUTH ACTIVITIES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Grand Lodge Youth Activities Committee held two meetings during the
current year. The first meeting was held July 20, 1974 in San Diego for members
residing in the Southern part of the State. The second meeting was held on September 7, 1974 in San Francisco for members of the northern part of the
jurisdiction. The meetings were held separately to keep expenses to a minimum.
At the meeting in San Diego 12 members and the chairman were in attendance.
The San Francisco meeting was attended by 9 members and the chairman.
The Committee during its discussion, repeatedly emphasized the need for the
Grand Master to clearly state the purpose and goals of the Committee on Youth Activities as they would reflect the goals of Freemasonry in California. The Committee felt that merely to offer assistance to the Order of DeMolay, International Order
of Rainbow for Girls and the International Order of Jobs Daughters provided
insufficient direction for the achievement of any productive objectives. The
chairman encouraged that each committeemen use his own initiative in holding
communication with Masonic District Inspectors, Youth Group Advisory Boards,
Blue Lodges and other sponsoring bodies. It was stressed that Grand Lodge
resources could not be committed without explicit authorization.

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committe e agreed that a resolution calling for full recognitio n of Jobs
Daughter s and Rainbow for Girls should be submitted for adoption at the 1975
Grand Lodge Commun ication, inasmuch as it was too late to submit same for the
current year. The Chairman also noted that Most Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage
had stated that a similar proposal would be forthcomi ng from him at this year's
Communi cation at Grand Lodge.
Richard Kelly, Director of Activities Southern Jurisdicti on, Order of De Mo lay,
acted as a consultan t to the Committe e meeting in San Diego. He stated that
DeMolay chapters in San Diego County did not require financial assistance . Numerous letters have been received by the chairman that fees charged to the youth.
groups in some temples are exhorbitant. In some cases discussio ns held with the
Master of the Lodge have been successful in securing assistance for the youth
group, in others, especially where Temple Boards are involved, we are informed
that the problem still exists. A letter from our Most Worshipful Grand Master,
referring to rental fees, was mailed to all constitue nt Lodges during the year.
A Mini Ritual, copy of which was mailed to Right Worshipf ul H. Douglas
Lemons, Grand Lecturer, was prepared and presentation of same to the Youth
Groups was recomme nded. This would encourag e officers of the Lodges involved
to attend meetings of the Youth Groups, to exemplify the permissib le portions of
the degree. The idea was enthusiastically received by the youth groups which had
been approached also by the committe emen. This idea had also been previously
discussed with Most Worshipf ul Raymond A. Ebbage. The wholehea rted support
of Grand Lodge, given to our three youth groups, was discussed and praised. It
was felt that our Grand Masters, particularly during the past years, have spent a
great deal of energy to encourag e individual Masons as well as Lodges to lend a
helping hand to our youth which are the future members of the Fraternity.
At the meeting in San Diego it was requested that the chairman mail copies of
the Grand Master's Message 1971, regarding the youth groups, as stated by Most
Worshipful Herbert A. Huebner P.G.M. Copies have been reprinted and will go
out to members of the Committe e. Likewise , copies of the membersh ip roster will
be mailed to each Committe eman.
An invitation to the Committe e, extended by Lester McElwain P.G.M., to actively participate in the Bi-Centennial Celebrati on was discussed . It was felt that
our Committe e did not have a useful function in this matter as the Youth Groups
have already been approach ed to participate in the Blue Lodge programs . It was
therefore decided to decline this invitation and to confine ourselves to the purposes
of our own work.
The Committe e voted on lowering the age limit from 21 to 18 years, in order to
make a recomme ndation. The combined vote of the two meetings was 17 opposed,
4 in favor and one abstention. It was agreed that leadership training for our youth
should be promoted . The chairman asked each member to take the DeMolay leadership course. Applications will be provided by brother Richard Kelley.
The chairman was going to try to have an article published in the California
Freemaso n admonish ing Masons to support our youth groups by attending their
meetings. Sincerity and visible interest should be displayed.

It seems that the meetings of the Committe e inspired everyone to work diligently toward the common goal of assisting our youth groups in whatever capacity
was requested by them. We should approach them, not wait for them to ask us. It
was hoped that the Committe e would be much the same for the ensuing year, as we
have only been able to lay ground rules during the present one.
Respectfully submitted ,

194

EDGAR GUMPEL, Chairman
KARL NEUMANN
GEORGE HILLA
WALLACE WRIGHT
LESLIE L. SPALDING
JARREIT E. STARR
MOCHTU ISHIDA
MICHAEL L. MANAHAN
HAROLD A. MACY
VERNON OSBORN
RALPH MANNING
GEORGE C. STACKHOUSE
EDWARD CARPENTER
ROBERT F. ROCK
LEONARD GREEN
JOHN WHITFIELD
FRANK W. STELLAR
YAHL P. CLEMENSEN
OSWALD LAU
CHARLES N. PEARSON
LEROY BROWN
EDWIN S. HODGES
RUSSELL E. HARRIS
LEO WEISSMAN
ROBERT WATKINS
JOEL H. CROUCH
RICHARD REES

Referred to Committe e on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
Acting as your Board of Library Commiss ioners under appointm ent of the
M .. w. Raymond A. Ebbage, Grand Master, it has been our pleasure and opportu~ty to serve the Grand Lodge and Brethem within the Jurisdicti on in accordanc e
with the Grand Master's wishes and the policies of the Grand Lodge in the administration of our Library and Museum.
During this past Masonic year we have been pleased to receive 27 books donated to our Library from Masons, their families or other concorda nt or related
organizations. Each of these books is carefully indexed, filed and then takes its
plac~ among our growing number of volumes. Our sincere thanks to those who
continue to remembe r our Library and Museum in this manner. We were also able
t less
to purchase 4 books of significan t Masonic content. While this is somewha
only
the
were
they
felt
we
year
fiscal
a
during
purchased
than the ~umber of books
wo~whll~ books available at this time. There were 232 books loaned through our
Lendmg Library, close to a record high. We also had 872 visitors to our Library
'.lfld Museum. In order to keep abreast of current publicatio ns and to be informed of
items that might become available we subscribe to several book finder services as
well as to periodicals published by research organizat ions.
?ur budgetary request for the ensuing fiscal year is in the amount of $1,500.0 0,
whic? request has been submitted to the Finance Committe e, and is herewith a part
of this report.

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We ask commendation and encouragement for our loyal and dedicated corps of
volunteers, led by Assistant Librarian William H. Scott, who cheerfully assists
visitors and scholars who come to the Library - as well as catalogue, stack and
sort books on our shelves, mail books to those using our lending facilities, and in
innumerable ways help keep our Library available and open to all five days a week
from 10:00 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., and by special request as required. Brothers George
Beard, Evan Fair, Kurt Swartz, Joel Yager, Paul Harasin, Edward Stanley, Robert
Youngblood, Bernie Katz along with the forementioned Brother Bill Scott,
deserve our appreciation for a job well done. We would urge each Lodge to make
broader use of the valuable service these dedicated volunteers make available.
Finally, we desire to express sincere appreciation and thanks for loyal support
to our Grand Master, Most Worshipful Raymond A. Ebbage, his general
encouragement and counsel has been most helpful. Appreciation is also tendered
to our Grand Secretary, Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, who also serves as the
Grand Librarian, and to all the members of his staff who readily and cheerfully
respond to all our needs and requests.
Respectfully submitted,
HAIG D. SOGHOMONIAN, Chairman

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES

C. JOHN BELLMAN, JR.
LEWIS B. MEEK
WILLIAM KLUDJJAN
STANLEY A. BUTERA

PAUL W. GOFF
HAROLD E . KILIAN
WILLIAM H. Scorr

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF 125TH ANNIVERSARY COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The members of the Committee for the celebration of the I 25th Anniversary of
the Grand Lodge of California wish to express our appreciation to the Grand
Master, the Most Worshipful Raymond Ebbage for the opportunity to serve.
In the interest of saving funds our Committee had no meetings with all members
present but communicated by mail, and Worshipful Robert McDonald with the
able assistance of Worshipful Henry Oliphant prepared a synopsis of the first 125
years of Masonry in California for an article in the California Freemason .
It is the hope of Right Worshipful Burton Meyer, Jr. that the Masons of
California will employ the l25th Anniversary theme throughout the 1974-1975
Grand Lodge year wherever possible at receptions and other Masonic functions.
The Committee is requesting an allocation of $5,000.00 to prepare for this
important event.

Respectfully submitted,
JACK DWYER

JOEL CROUCH, Chairman
ROBERT MCDoNALD

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

197

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
On behalf of the members of our Committee we wish to thank the Grand Secretary for the assistance he has always given us.
Our Temple has been used for various degrees throughout the year, and also by
some of the Junior Masonic Affiliate Organizations.
Many new artifacts have been added to our collection by various members of
our Lodges.
Brother Glick, our very able caretaker and guide, always provides refreshments
for any Masonic group holding a meeting at t~e Hall.
There are many Lodges in Southern California who do not even know of the ~x­
istance of this remarkable memorial which Grand Lodge has so _ably n:stored t? its
former glory. I urge all Masters present to try to hold one of t~e1r special meetings
·n our ancient Temple. Meetings can be held any day or evenmg, except Thursday
~vening, (when Plaza de Los Angeles Lodge ~onducts its meeting) at a c~st of only
$25.00. The Hall is situated at 4161h No. Mam Street, Los Angeles and is open to
all visitors every Thursday, Friday and Saturday from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. I cannot
stress too strongly to all members to visit this lovely Hall.
The Committee respectfully requests a budget of Eighteen Hundred ($1,800 ·00)
Dollars for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted,
BENJAMIN M. WEISS, Chairman
JULIAN WOLF
GLENN Ji. HARMAN

BENJAMIN ENNIS

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF TAXATION COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A.M. of California:

Your Committee on Taxation was originally appointed in the l930's to deal
with problems having to do with the social security_law~. and in 197 l ~ran~ ~ge
expanded its function to "include all types oftaxat10n. YourCo~m1tt~ i_s without authority to supervise tax activities within Grand Lodge ?11d its entities and
considers itself an advisory committee available for consultation on tax matters.
The primary responsibility for dealing with tax matters is that o~ the Gr~~ Master
and Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge, the truste~s of the vai:ious entities of the
Grand Lodge, the Worshipful Masters and Secn:tanes of consutu~nt Lodges, and
elected or appointed officers and trustees of vanous other Masomc groups under
.
.
.
·
the Grand Lodge.
Most units of Grand Lodge with employees are involved with Federal social
security and California unemployment and disability insurance laws. Grand Lodge

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and its entities are also involved with a wide range of Federal and California laws
pertaining to tax exempt organizations and also to other laws such as taxation of
associations, corporations, fiduciaries, pension funds, and sales taxes. Much of
the law involved is dynamic with frequent changes, new regulations, and
increasing enforcement. The laws are complex and difficult of interpretation.
Very substatial assets are entailed. Required returns are subject to ever more critical review and audit.
Your Committee strongly advises that all those responsible recognize this is
an area beyond casual consideration. It urges that advice be solicited and consultation be made with legal and accounting professionals as well as your Committee. Your Committee recommends that each Grand Lodge unit establish a program
for active review of the requirements of the various tax laws so that there will be
continual compliance with these laws. Failure to comply with the law can subject
our organizations to costly penalties and the Fraternity to embarrassment.
Your Committee suggests that all Brethren take the responsibility of
determining full compliance with the tax laws of our nation and state. It believes
this to be a duty of every elected presiding officer and trustee from the Grand
Master to the Master of the Lodge, from the trustee of the Grand Lodge Homes,
Temple, and Foundation to the trustees of the Temple Associations and from the
officers of Service Bureaus, Masters and Wardens Associations, and Secretaries
Associations to the trustees of pension funds and separate Lodge funds.
Your Committee again reminds the brethren that tax laws are the law of the
land and as good citizens we must comply with the law. We have been granted tax
exemptions in many cases and it is our duty to be worthy of that advantage.

We know that California Masonic History began with the formation of Grand
l,odge in April 1850, 5 lodges, 567 members in total. It has been duly recorded in
numerous articles and publications, the most noteworthy being "One Hundred
Years of Freemasonry in California" by Brother Leon Whitsell. While Brother
Whitsell is our most illustrous recorder of Masonic history, I submit that he also
made history himself. For over 30 years he roamed the state, visiting lodges and
old Lodge-Sites, collecting material, searching into the past. What appears in the
printed set is but a small fraction of the total.
The Masonic History Committee had its beginning in 1925 with the recommendation of and subsequent appointment by the Grand Master of a ''Committee of 3
members for the Preservation of Masonic History in California under the leadership of a Masonic Historian." A rather elaborate structure was discussed in
1926, calling for a Grand Historian, and 3 Deputy Grand Historians, with 3
depositories in the state. This proposal apparently died of its own weight.
In 1927 the name of Brother Whitsell appears for the first time as a member of
the Committee, and he became Chairman in 1932. In those early days the Committee aimed for the publication of a California History, planned then to consist of 3
volumnes and to be sold by subscription to the Brethem for $12.00 per set. But the
great depression was upon us, and out of some 2000 letters sent out to Lodges and
members, only 324 signed up. As a consequence the project was abandoned for the
time being. But Grand Lodge adopted as policy that the History Committee "work
out the most feasable and economic plan for the preparation and publication of the
History of Masonry in California.'' As we know it was finally published as a part
of our centennial in 1950.
We were indeed fortunate to have had a most ardent and hardworking historian
to guide the project. Restoration of the Temple at Columbia, our slide presentation, numerous Qther proposals came from his boundless energy. His footsteps
may be traced throughout the Mother Lode country as well as other places of Masonic consequence. Even when elected Deputy Grand Master, he carried on with
the Committee activities, severing his membership and chairmanship only for the
year he was Grand Master in 1938. Upon relinquishing that office, he immediately
returned to the History Committee and again became its chairman. The publication
of the '100 years' for our centennial is well known to all.
Our Masonic History is the story of the lives of all of us, told individually and
collectively from 1850 until now. But as you read the printed words, do you let
yourself become for a moment a part of that past history? Imagine yourself as one
of the officers of those 5 original lodges; your dress, working mens clothing, tom,
faded and full of patches; meetings held in crudely constructed and ill-furnished
Lodge rooms. Picture the communication system then, if you will, and the streets
you walked to get to the Lodge room. And transportation? - no paved roads,
freeways, much less jets traveling at 600 miles per hour. We complain today at the
new 55 miles per hour speed limit on the highways. But consider the problem of
Brother Levi Stowell, Master of California Lodge No. 1 in 1850. He was then a
member of the state legislature, meeting at that time in San Jose some 50 miles to
the south of San Francisco. Faithfuly, by stage coach he travelled for 6 to 8 hours in
order to be able to come to San Francisco and open his beloved Lodge.

198

Respectfully submitted,
W. STANLEY DAVIS, Chairman
ALEXANDER L. CROCE

DA YID A. POOLE

Referred to Committee on Finance. (Budget allocation)

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

What is History? It is the story of what happened today-yesterday. We are all
makers of and a part of history, even though not necessarily recorded. Most of it is
lost to posterity, only a few of the more important events finding their way into the
printed page.

200

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ritualist work may have left much to be desired, but they were Masons in truth
and in fact. These handful of Masons, totaling 567 in 1851, contributed out of their
own pockets the sum of $34,000 during 1850 and 1851 for the relief of needy
Brothers during a disaster in Sacramento. Grand Lecturers and Inspectors unknown then, although by the end of 25 years in 1874 we numbered 27 district
Inspectors.
Gold is much in the news today. History tells us that in 1874 our Brethern in
Louisiana were greatly in need of help and relief, and we raised funds here in
California to send to them. "Gold drafts" were purchased in San Francisco for
$2,500.00, realizing for our Louisiana Brethern the sum of $2,748.75.
And still on the subject of finances, we learned that the cost of operating our
Fraternity was of great concern. Grand Lodge dues were said to be too high, and
the proceedings report ''on this subject, more feeling has been exhibited and more
comments expended than on any other topic."
Such are bits of Masonic history, interesting to some, to be ignored by others.
In 1960, each constituent lodge received a letter from the History Committee
headed by Brother Whitsell, requesting information to gather the story of
Freemasonry in California after 1950. He asked for the recording of events within
each Lodge such as anniversaries and centennials; Lodge dedications; new
Temples, mortgage burnings, to name a few. It must regretfully be reported that
one year later, only 96 Lodges complied with his request in detail, 114 were
partially answered, and sad to say 476 Lodges did not reply at all. Since that time
another request has gone out but still only scattered responses have been received.
History recording is a never ending mission. The History Committee should be
writiQg our history as it is being made, day by day. Brother Whitsell continued his
search for further Masonic material until 1962, when he filed a final report with
Grand Lodge after 30 years of service.
In order to preserve our heritage, much remains to be accomplished. We must
consolidate what we have, and bring all the records up to date. The history files today are incomplete, and what information we do have is scattered in different
spots. It had been our hope this year that we could bring all of the information
concerning each Lodge into a single file folder for that Lodge, and keep it up to
date by a constant flow of new material coming to us. At the present time we have
numerical Lodge files; chronological files containing some Lodge history; scrap
books of old Lodge temples and interior halls; cases of individual file folders on the
floor which should be consolidated with the numerical files; information in the
Grand Secretary's office and records which should be cross filed in the history section; and we suspect even the records of the California Freemason will reveal pertinent information of historical interest.
It will take time and physical effort to consolidate all of this scattered information into one place. But it is of extreme importance, for without a central source for
complete information about each Lodge, the second century of our history will be
lost.
That is not all to be done however. The active support of each individual Lodge
is essential. Future History Committees will undoubtedly be requesting reports
from you. Let each one of us resolve today to go back to our respective Lodges and

become ourselves "Historians," preserving our glorious past and building for the
future.
Respectfully submitted,
PAUL COWGILL, Chairman
ROBERT L. HIRT
FRED 0. SHERRILL
REGINALD REYNOLDS
WILLIAM NADEL

SAMUEL W. BALLINGER
RICHARD E. DUNN

At 4:00 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30 A.M. Wednesday,
October 16, 1975.

202

203

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Wednesday, October 16, 1974

lessen the chance of inaction the following motion is offered for your
consideration:
I move that proposed Resolution No. 10, submitted at the 1973 Annual Communication, and as referred to committee upon motion by the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes, be now directly referred to the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes for review and study and to be reported for action at the 1975
Annual Communication.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "YES" vote.
Adopted.

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding. Robert
H. Barnes, Master of Luther Burbank Lodge No. 752, raised Grand Lodge. The
Invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain. The minutes of the morning
and afternoon session of Tuesday, October 15, 1974 were read and approved.
Grand Master Ebbage announced the death of Past Grand Master L. Harold
"Pete" Anderson. He requested the Brothers to stand for a moment of silence,
following which he offered a beautiful prayer for our departed Brother.
Minutes of the morning and afternoon of Tuesday October 15th were read and
approved.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
ELECTION OF JUNIOR GRAND WARDEN
1973 Resolution (1)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Chairman Theodore Meriam reporting for the Committee read the body of the
1973 Resolution and indicated that the Committee on Policy and General Purposes
were in accord with the intent of the Resolution, moved its adoption and urged a
''yes'' vote.
Adopted 2/3rds vote.

MASONIC BURIAL FOR ENTERED APPRENTICES
AND FELLOWCRAFTS
1973 Resolution (10)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Proposed Resolution No. 10 at the 1973 Annual Communication sought permission for conducting the Masonic burial service for deceased Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Masons. Upon motion by the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, the Grand Lodge referred this resolution to committee for study
and report at this, the 1974 Annual Communication. The basis of the referral was
to permit study and possible reconciliation of inconsistencies in our law relating to
other possible rights and privileges for Masons who have not yet received the
degree of Master Mason. Unfortunately, this study has not been consummated.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, continuing in its belief that
such a study is needed and appropriate before decision on Resolution No. 10 oflast
year, therefore proposes again that this matter be referred to committee, and to

SPECIAL TRUST FUND FOR SOCIAL PURPOSES
1973 Resolution (9)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes endorses and approves the
intent of the hold-over resolution entitled Special Trust Fund.
We have some concern as regards the language of the resolution and its future
interpretation under that language.
Although the preamble to the resolution is explanatory, the resolution is not
clear as to how contributions to such funds are to be made, whether gifts are to be
solicited and what pressures might be exerted on prospective donors. This committee is concerned that such contribuitons be entirely voluntary and in no way
solicited.
Therefore, the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a
''YES'' vote with the further recommendation that, under the direction of the incoming Grand Master, appropriate legislation be prepared to further clarify the restrictions and safeguards to be observed in the acquisition of such funds.
I move the adt>ption of the resolution and the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes recommends a "YES" vote.
Adopted 2/3rds vote
I move that appropriate legislation be prepared under the direction of the incoming Grand Master to clarify the restrictions and safeguards to be observed in the
acquisition of such funds.
Adopted
Grand Lodge was called off for reception of distinguished guests (see contents
elsewhere in these Proceedings).

STATEWIDE JURISDICTION
1973 Resolution (14)
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution would permit an applicant to petition any Lodge of his choice
within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge, after the residential time requirement
of twelve months had been met.
This proposal would simplify the jurisdiction provisions of the California Masonic Code by eliminating the confusion which now exists in the interpretation of

204

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

such items as normal jurisdiction, concurrent jurisdiction, and extended "ten-mile
rule" jurisdiction. Variances in jurisdiction would be eliminated by providing
uniform jurisdiction applicable to all applicants for the Degrees.
.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is in agreement with the mtent
of this resolution and re-endorses their report as published in the Proceedings of the
Grand Lodge of California for 1973.
I therefore move the adoption of the resolution, and the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes wholeheartedly recommends a "Yes" vote.

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Indicated the language set out in its report on this resolution in 1973 was adequate to accomplish the intent of its proponents.
Adopted 2/3 vote.
At 12:05 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 1:30 P.M.

205

AFTERNOON SESSION-Wednesday, October 16, 1974
At 1:30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The
Invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE
TO STUDY FEASIBILITY OF FREEMASON AS
MONTHLY PUBLICATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In his message to Grand Lodge at the last Communication, Grand Master
William H. Price made the observation that there is "need for more communication between the Grand Master (or Grand Lodge) and those members who
cannot or do not regularly attend Lodge meetings." He concluded his remarks
with the hope that the California Freemason magazine would be published
monthly and recommended a special committee to determine the advisability and
feasibility.
This Committee believes that it is both possible and feasible to publish the
California Freemason monthly.
Any recommendation as to advisability must take into account the impact of
increased costs. Now published quarterly, the California Freemason is paid for by
means of an annual assessment on each Lodge at the rate of 35¢ per member. An
examination of the latest costs indicates that this assessment approximately equals
the present cost.
Publication expense is divided into ( l) the updating of the mailing list which
requires the time of one Grand Lodge employee, (2) the actual printing costs, (3)
cost of processing mailing labels and postage expense, and (4) editorial costs.
Two-thirds of the total expense is in the printing of the magazine which includes
paper, an item which can be expected to increase in the future, along with postage.
· The Committee believes that the total cost would probably increase in almost
direct proportion to the number of issues. Therefore, any reasonable projection
indicates that issuing the Californis Freemason on a monthly basis would require
an assessment on each Lodge of approximately $1.15 per member compared with
the present 35¢. Reducing the size of the magazine would effect some savings,
but would not materially affect the assessment.
The Committee believes that planned changes will make the magazine into
even a better means of communication with all members. Nonetheless, we are
reluctant to recommend publication on a monthly basis because of the increased
financial burden which would result.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN A. SICKENBERGER, Chairman
LLOYD A. BUDWIG

RALPH H. HEAD

207

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes has reviewed the Report of the
"Special Committee to Study Feasibility of Freemason as Monthly Publication"
and your committee has the following observations concerning the report:

Your Committee on Finance feels that such a large increase in the per capita
would place an exhorbitant burden on many of our lodges. We therefore recommend that the magazine continue as a quarterly publication.
Adopted. (The recommendation that the magazine continue as a quarterly
publication).

206

The report lists two conclusions or opinions; the first is that the Study Committee believes that ''planned changes will make the magazine into even a
better means of communication with all members." Without knowledge of
what "planned changes" are contemplated, we trust that all such planned
changes would upgrade the present high quality of the California
• Freemason to even greater heights. It is the belief of your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes that a more frequent publication of the
California Freemason would tend toward a possible lowering of the
quality. It is further believed that greater attention will be given to a quality
quarterly publication than to a monthly or bi-monthly periodical.
2. The second opinion of the Study Committee is that committee's reluctance
to recommend a monthly publication because of increased financial
burden. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes wholeheartedly
concurs with the Study Committee in this respect and further suggests that
if additional funds should become available they should be used for expansion of the present quarterly into an even larger, more complete publication. It is the belief of your committee that the brethren of this
jurisdiction are keenly interested in the activities of the Grand Lodge, in the
accomplishments of Lodges within the jurisdiction, in the biographies of
the elected Grand Lodge officers (both as to Masonic service and coriununity service) and in all offerings that tend to strengthen our quality as an
institution and to increase individual pride in membership.
The California Freemason is of top caliber today. It can become an even better
communication link between the Grand Lodge and the individual Mason.
Frequency of publication cannot accomplish this to the degree that quality of presentation can.
The report of the Study Committee contains no recommendation. The committee should be thanked for its efforts and the California Freemason Publication
Board should be both commended for its service to Freemasonry in this
jurisdiction and urged to carry on with plans and goals for an even better quarterly
publication.
I.

The Committee On Finance:
The Committee on Finance has studied the Report of the Special Committee as
to the possibility of publishing the Freemason magazine on a monthly basis.
Projecting the estimate of the Special Committee, the annual cost to publish the
magazine monthly could be approximately $250,000.00. This is an addition of
about $161,000.00 to the present cost, which would require an increase of$. 75
cents in the per capita tax.
We would add that ifthe present upward trend of printing and otherrelated costs
continues, eventual costs could well exceed the Special Committee estimate.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Secretary presented the following resolutions and a Special Committee Reports which were referred by the Grand Master to the Committees
noted. Committee reports and action taken are printed below each.

MASONIC HISTORICAL SITES
(1)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, with the passage of time the opportunity for the acquisition, restoration and preservation of significant and important Masonic historical sites
becomes less possible as such sites deteriorate, are destroyed or become
unavailable due to other usage, and
WHEREAS, with the same passage of time the importance and value of
preservation of much that remains to remind us of our Masonic heritage is
increasingly important, and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California, despite some significant accomplishments of historical site preservation, such as the Masonic Temple at Columbia and the Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, has no clear policy with respect
to the acquisition, restoration and preservation of Masonic historical sites, and
WHEREAS, without the establishment of policy valuable time and opportunity may be forever lost,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the policy of the Grand
Lodge of California for the acquisition, restoration and preservation of Masonic
Historical Sites be as follows:
1. The Grand Lodge of California desires to restore and preserve, whenever
possible, buildings and related sites which have important historical
significance to Freemasonry and which will portray to present and future
generations examples and reminders of our heritage, both as to important
events and fraternal environment.
2. Whenever possible, preserved structures and memorial markers should be
on public land, which land has been designated for permanent care and
responsibility, or upon land that the owner has conveyed to a Masonic
Body or governmental entity, with a binding, written agreement that the
site be dedicated to such use in perpetuity.
3. There can be no fixed set of guidelines or requirements relative to the
acquisition, restoration or preservation of Masonic Historical Sites. Each

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

proposal must be considered on the merit of the known facts of the
present and probable future situation of the site and its relationship to the
heritagef purposes of Freemasonry in California.
4. The restoration and preservation of Masonic buildings should be with
agreements that contemplate occasional usage for Masonic purposes as
well as for public or exhibition purposes.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Grand Lodge Committee on Masonic History shall receive and study all proposals for Masonic historical site
preservation or designation which are contemplated for accomplishment by. the
Grand Lodge of California. If a proposed project is determined by the Comrmttee
on Masonic History to be appropriate and desirable for accomplishmen~ by the
Grand Lodge, it shall then be submitted to the Grand Lodge Committee on
Finance for its approval with respect to attendant financial obligation involving
funds of the Grand Lodge, either existing funds or funds to be acquired. Following approval by the Grand Lodge Committees on Masonic History and on
Finance, the proposed project shall be submitted to the Grand Lodge for
acceptance by the Grand Lodge at the next Annual Communication. It shall be
permissible for proponents of a proposed project which h.as been ap~roved.by the
Grand Lodge Committees on Masonic History and on Fmance to crrcularize the
Lodges of the Jurisdiction with a written description and explanation of the
project, such circular being frrst approved as to form and content by the Grand
Lodge Committee on Masonic History.
Respectfully submitted,
w. H. LAMBERT, P.M. No . 13
No . 111
P.M.
THEODORE MERIAM,
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes and on Masonic
History.

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. I proposes to establish both policy and procedure for the
acquisition, restoration and preservation of significant and important Masonic
historical sites by this Grand Lodge.
In 1971 the late M. W. Herbert A. Huebner, then Grand Master, appointed a
committee to study the entire matter of Grand Lodge responsibility and
participation in the area of historical site restoration and preservation. Since that
time much study, thought and discussion has been given to this directive by certain members of this Committee and by the proponents of this resolution.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes fully endorses the
importance and desirability of preserving, whenever possible, that which
reminds us of our heritage. We believe that it is essential that' Grand Lodge adopt
a statement of policy and procedure which will ensure proper and adequate consideration to all historical site preservation proposals that may be presented to o~
Grand Lodge. We further believe that the policy set forth in Resolution No. I is
proper, and that the procedure provides adequate safeguards to bring about. good
decisions by causing all proposals for acquisition, restoration, or prese~at1on to
be approved by the Committee on Masonic History, the Finance Committee, the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

209

Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and finally by you my Brethren, the
members of Grand Lodge.
I move the adoption of this resolution and your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Masonic History:
Resolution No. I was referred to the Masonic History Committee for its recommendation prior to consideration by the Policy and General Purposes
Committee.
This resolution seeks to provide an orderly and logic~l procedure f~r h~dling
proposals for the acquisition, restoration and preservation or the des1gnat.1on of
Masonic Historical sites in California. If adopted, all proposals would frrst be
considered by the History Committee who would investigate and consider e~ch
on its merits under appropriate guidelines to be established. Before any proJect
could be undertaken, the Grand Lodge Committees on Finance and on Pohcy and
General Purposes would then also be required to review and pass on the
proposal. Finally, Grand Lodge, itself, would have to give its acceptance and
.
.
approval.
After the Resolution had been received, all of the members of this Committee
were contacted by letter for their views on it. There was no dissenting reply
received.
We therefore recommend adoption of Resolution No. I, and have presented
this recommendation to the Policy and General Purposes Committee.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK -

DEFINED

(2)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, Public Schools Week was originated in 1920 when our public
schools were in dire need of support, and
WHEREAS, the need is greater today for closer cooperation and Masonic
support, and
WHEREAS, the present month-long observance of public schools in
confusing to the area Lodges and school districts alike, and
WHEREAS, numerous complaints have been received from Lodges and
school districts statewide, and
WHEREAS, it is felt Masonry can better assist the public school~ in ~lim­
inating the existing confusion by reassuming its original role in des1gnatmg a
specific week,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Public Schools Week shall be
the last week in April whic:h includes a Friday, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that when the foregoing dates conflict with
religious holy days, the observance may be held one week earlier or later.

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD H. DUTWII...ER, P.M., No. 622 Chairman
CLYDE M. STINE, P.M ., No. 560
HOWARDS . FISHER, P.M . , No. 620
PHILLIP c. REINER, P.M., No. 264
LAFAYETTE W. MEAD, P.M ., No.12
WM E. ZIMMERMAN, P.M., NO. 58
EDWARD W. MYERS, W.M., N0. 486
LAURENCE C. COOK, P.M., NO. 648
JAY R. THRASHER, P.M.
DoNALD R. KIDDER, P.M., No. 479
HARRY L. HIBLER, P.M., No. 533
lDoNALD H. SLATER, No. 111
HARRY E . HIRAOKA, P.M., No. 277
RICHARD L. GANDT, P.M., No. 716
RAYMOND c. REEDER, P.M., No. 384
RODGER D. SIEMS, P.M., No. 615
DANA A. TuRPIN, P.M., No. 336
DARROL E. DAVIS, P.M., No. 431
MILTON M. RUBIN , P.M. No. 623
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes .
The above resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that the California Masonic Code
be amended to give the Grand Master, upon the application of a Blue Lodge after
unanimous ballot (C. M. C. Sect. 536, et seq) and with the recommendation of
the Grand Secretary after a showing of good cause, the power to authorize the
issuance of fifty-year pins to Master Masons who would not otherwise qualify
but for the fact that fifty years have passed since they were raised.
Respectfully submitted:
CHARLES M. BERG, P.M., No. 797

VETERAN BUTTONS

(3)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:

WHEREAS, it has come to our attention that there are many Brothers, one of
whom was raised in another Jurisdiction on June 13, 1924, and who has during
his lifetime exemplified himself as an outstanding Masop in the true traditions of
our order, and it is in the best interests of the Fraternity that such men be identified as veteran Masons and true representatives of the tradition of our Fraternal
Order; and
WHEREAS, due to the Depression of 1929, service in World War II, and the
unusual suspension rules of his other Jurisdiction regarding payment of dues
caused this brother to be suspended for non-payment of dues on a few occasions
for a total of 3, 137 days, under circumstances which could not have happened in
California; and
WHEREAS , under California Masonic Code Section 150(c) of the
Annotations on Page 71 of the C.M.C., "Veteran Mason must have been a ,
member in good standing of a recognized Lodge of Masons for fifty years, and
periods while he was dimitted and not a member in good standing, or while he
was suspended N. P. D., must be added to time when he would normally have
been eligible;" and
WHEREAS, only the Grand Lodge has the power to change or make
exception to the foregoing regulation; and
WHEREAS, there are many other fifty-year Brothers in a similar position
who are, for good cause, deserving of receiving a fifty-year pin based on the passage of time only, and whose blue Lodges are in unanimous accord that they
receive a fifty-year pin,

211

Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes:

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 3 attempts to amend our California Masonic Code,
particularly annotation (c) of Section 150, with regard to changing the
requirements for a Mason to become eligible for a Veterans Button or fifty year
pin.
While this Committee can sympathize with the Brother proposing the resolution and with the Brother whom it is intended to help, nevertheless a special
exception is created by it directed to one individual which is contrary to the
policies of this Grand Lodge. Special situation resolutions defeat the purpose
intended by our governing Masonic law.
As our Code presently reads, the criteria for eligibility to receive a Veteran's
Button is set forth and firmly established over many years.
If the only reqvirement is that a Mason is eligible fifty years after he is raised,
as, in effect, called for by the proponent of this resolution, the rewarding of a
Mason for long and faithful support and services is defeated. Under this resolution a Mason who has been suspended for almost a full fifty years could be
eligible. This would be repugnant to the intent of the Veterans Button.
We move the adoption of the resolution, but recommend a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This resolution provides that a Lodge, by unanimous ballot taken in the same
manner required for balloting on applicants for Degrees under Section 536 of the
California Masonic Code, may apply to the Grand Master, with recommendation
of the Grand-Secretary, for a dispensation to present a Veteran's Button to a Mason who has been a Master Mason for fifty years, but not in good standing for the
fifty years as presently required under Section 150-C of the Code; and authorizes
the Grand Master to issue a dispensation therefore.
In order. to carry out the intent of the proponent, the Committee on
Jurisprudence offers the following:
·
RESOLVED: That Section 134.2 be added to the California Masonic Code as
follows:

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Section 134.2 Powers, Continued.
Veteran's Buttons.
"15th. To issue a dispensation to authorize the presentation of a Veteran's
Button to a Master Mason, then a member in good standing in a Lodge of this
Jurisdiction, who has been a Master Mason for fifty years, although not a
member in good stan of a recognized Lodge continuously for fifty years;
provided, that a Lodge of this Jurisdiction, by unanimous vote taken in the same
manner as for balloting on applicants for degrees, shall have applied for such dispensation and the Grand Secretary shall have recommended it after a showing to
him of good cause therefore.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: that Annotation 150-c be deleted and further
the note be inserted after Annotations 150-b and 150-n · to refer to Section
134.2 of the Code.
We move the adoption of the legistion.
A majority voted against the resolution.

NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section 156, Para. 5th be
amended to read as follows:
'' 156-Par 5th. To cause to be held lodges of instruction for the Inspectors, and
at his convenience to attend schools of instruction held by Assistant Grand Lecturers or Inspectors."
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 161, Para. 11th be amended to
read as follows:
" 161-par I Ith. To attend lodges of instruction held by the Grand Lectur'
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that Section 176 be amended by deleting the
last two lines which read: "and further each Inspector shall produce the certificate of the Grand Lecturer that he has attended the lodge of instruction.''
Respectfully submitted,
H. DOUGLAS LEMONS, P.M. No. 699
BURTONO. YOUNG,P.M . , No.336
VERNON L. GORDON, P.M., No. 508
EDWARD E. SEAGLE, P.M., No. 7:30
GEORGE w. PERKINS, P.M., No. 378
U. G. PATROPULOS, P.M., No. 260
ERNEST M. NEWTON, P.M., No. 296

212

RITUAL -

LODGE OF INSTRUCTION -

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

(4)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, in an effort to establish a uniform system of Ritual in the Grand
isdi9tion of California, it was determined at the Annual Communication of
1873 that all Inspectors would be required to attend Grand Lodge, and with the
Grand Lecturer examine the work and exemplify it before Grand Lodge; then in
1908, the Grand Lecturer's Annual School of Instruction for Inspectors at each
Annual Communication was established and became part of Masonic law by
insertion into the Grand Lodge Constitution of 1910, and
WHEREAS, through the years the Grand Lecturer's school at Grand Lodge
was the only school held by the Gr'and Lecturer for the Inspectors, and was therefore essential in maintaining uniformity in the Ritual, and
WHEREAS, the Inspectors' Annual Spring Conferences were instituted in
1948, a system whereby the Grand Lecturer and the entire Ritual Committee,
each year in early spring, travel to each of the Divisions and spend an entire
weekend reviewing the Ritual and discussing matters of administration, and
WHEREAS, the Inspectors' Spring Conferek have proven to be of great
value as a means of instructing the Ritual, not only because there is sufficient
time to cover all phases of the Ritual, but also assures a more efficient flow of
information within the instructional chain through closer personal contact between the Inspectors and members of the Ritual Committee, and
WHEREAS, the instruction of the Ritual is being more than adequately covered at the Inspectors' Spring Conferences, it is felt that the Grand Lecturer's
Annual School at Grand Lodge could now be discontinued with no resultant loss
of Ritual proficiency, and further, such a move would result in a rather
substantial savings to the Grand Lodge.

Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes and on Finance.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
This resolution proposes to eliminate the Lodge of Instruction for the
Inspectors held at each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is well aware of the renown
enjoyed by the Grand Lodge of California because of the excellence of its ritual
•
work.
Your Committee concurs with the proponents of the resolution in their
statement' 'the instruction of the Ritual is being more than adequately covered at
the Inspectors' Spring Conferences."
Furthermore, we are assured adequate instruction in Administration can be
provided at the respective Assistant Grand Lecturers' Schools of Instruction. Additional valuable instruction in Administration is provided in the Manuals available to eachptor.
We are also aware of the substantial monetary savings which will result from
this proposal.
The adoption of this resolution will not preclude the attendance of Inspectors
at the Grand Lodge Communication, at the request of the Grand Master, and
their being reimbursed therefor.
The Grand Lecturer and the entire Ritual Committee propose and support the
resolution. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs and recommends a "yes" vote.
I move the adoption of Resolution No. 4.
The Committee on Finance:
The Committee expressed its concurrence with the recommendation of the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

214

215

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Committee on Jurisprudence:
As the Inspectors' Spring conference has proven satisfactory in establishing a
uniform system of Ritual as well as reviewing matters of administration, this resolution proposes to discontinue the Grand Lecturer's Annual School at Grand
Lodge with a substantial savings to the Grand Lodge.
The following is offered to implement this resolution:
Resolved: that Section 156, Paragraph 5th of the California Masonic Code be
and the same is hereby amended to read:
Section 156-Sth. To cause to be held Lodges of Instruction for the
Inspectors, and at his convenience to attend Schools of Instruction held by
Assistant Grand Lecturers or Inspectors.
Resolved Further: that Section 161, Paragraph 11th of the California Masonic
Code be and the same is hereby amended to read:
Section 161-llth. To attend the Lodges of Instruction as directed by the
Grand Lecturer.
Resolved Further: that Section 176 of the California Masonic Code be and the
same is hereby amended by deleting therefrom the following:
''; and further, each Inspector shall produce the certificate of the Grand
Lecturer that the Inspector has attended the Lodge of Instruction held by
the Grand Lecurer immediately prior to the Annual Communication."
Wefer this resolution without recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

as one of said Trustees at the close of the Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge each year and shall serve for a term of one year,'' be, and it is hereby
amended to read as follows:
''The Deputy Grand Master may, upon the recommendation of the
Grand Master, and the approval of the Board of Trustees of the Foundation become a member of said Board, to serve for a term of one
year f;om and after the close of the Annual Communication."
2. The portion of said Section 252 reading: ''The Grand Master may_ re~?ve
an appointive Trustee, except the Deputy Grand Master, at any tune be
and it is hereby amended to read as follows:
"The Grand Master may recommend the removal of a Trustee to the
Board of Trustees at any time, and upon approval of the Board, such
Trustee, shall be deemed removed, and a vacancy created."
The
portion of said Section 252 dealing with the Grand Secretary and
3.
Grand Treasi.irer' s becoming the Secretary and Treasurer of the Board of
Trustees which now reads as follows: "The Grand Secretary shall always
be the Secretary of the Board of Trustees, and the Grand Treasurer shall always be the Treasurer of the Board of Trustees'' be and it is hereby
amended to read as follows:
''By and with the approval of the Board of Trustees, the Grand Secretary shall be and become the Secretary for the Board of Trustees,
and the Grand Treasurer shall become the Treasurer for said Board.''
Respectfully submitted,
JOHNS. HUNT, P.M. No. 445
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
.
No. 5 has withdrawn paragraph No. 2 of the resolution regarding appomtment
and removal of the Deputy Grand Master. Further, the proposer has amende~ the
wording of paragraph No. 3 to delete "shall be and" in line No. 2 and substitute
"may"; and in line No. 4 substitute "may" for "shall".
.
.
This resolution seeks to amend Section 252 of the California Masomc Code
relating to appointment of Grand Lodge Officers, namely the Deputy Grand
Master, Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer to the California Masonic
Foundation.
.
.
..
,,
At the present time the Code Section makes it mandatory with the word shall
that they be members of the Board.
As the California Masonic Foundation is a "Private Foundation" under the tax
rules of the Federal Internal Revenue Code it enjoys considerable tax advantages.
However, with the present wording of a portion of Section 252 an improper supervisory provision is imposed by making certain Grand Lodge Officers mandatory
Trustees, all of which may violate the Internal Revenue Act.
The amendment proposed would change "shall" to "may" with regard to ~he
appointment of the Deputy Grand Master to the Board of Trustees, thus removmg
the mandatory provisions. Finally, the proposed amendments would remove the
restriction that the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer shall always be Secretary
and Treasurer for the Board of Trustees.

TRUSTEES-CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
(5)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Sect. 252 of the California Masonic Code provides that the Deputy Grand Master shall be a Trustee (of the California Masonic Foundation) and
shall be appointed as one of said Trustees at the close of the Annual Commu- .
nication of Grand Lodge each year, and shall serve for one year, and
WHEREAS, the California Masonic Foundation is an independent
corporation, formed for charitable purposes in 1969, and
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge has been, and is, the principal contributor of
funds and assets now owned by said Foundation, and
WHEREAS, the mandatory appointment of the Deputy Grand Master to the ·
Board of Trustees of said Foundation appears to constitute a managerial act by
Grand Lodge, a principal contributor of the Foundation's assets, and therefore,
may be a violation of the Internal Revenue Code of 1969 relating to Foundations,
and thus endanger the' 'Private Foundation'' classification which has been granted
to California Masonic Foundation, and
WHEREAS, in other respects it appears that said Section incorporates supervisional provisions which may be in violation of certain mandates of the Internal
Revenue Act,
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that:
1. The second sentence of Section 252, California Masonic Code, which now
reads: ''The Deputy Grand Master shall be a Trustee and shall be appointed

216

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, mindful of the fine work
being accomplished by the Foundation and desiring to remove any legal obstacle
which could affect the tax status thereof, moves the adoption of the resolution and
recommends a " Yes" vote.
I am authorized to report that the Committee on Jurisprudence states that the
legislation as proposed is sufficient to carry out the intent of the proposer.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

Committee on Taxation :
The California Masonic Foundation was organized March 5, 1969 as a non
profit, charitable corporation. The foundation is managed by fifteen trustees all of
whom must be members of Grand Lodge one of whom is the Deputy Grand Master
and the other fourteen are appointed by the Grand Master for staggered terms of
three years each. The Grand Secretary is the Secretary of the Board of Trustees and
the Grand Treasurer is the Treasurer of the Board of Trustees. The Grand Lodge
office performs the accounting for the Foundation without charge. The Grand
Lodge Committee on Investments is empowered to invest and reinvest the funds of
the Foundation . The assets of the Foundation originated by gifts from the Grand
Lodge and the Order of the Amaranth.
The Committee on Taxation has had referred to it Resolution #5 of the 1974
Annual Communication . The resolution proposes certain changes in the California
Masonic Code having to do with the appointment of the Deputy Grand Master and
Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer and with the removal of trustees. The reason
for the changes is given as possible violations of the Internal Revenue Code.
The Committee on Taxation will not comment on the matter of policy in regard
to this resolution . Its comments are limited to the reference to the Internal Revenue
Code. It further will not comment on the tax status of the Foundation beyond the
subject of the resolution.
The Committee on Taxation does not believe the changes proposed by the resolution are necessary to avoid violation of the Internal Revenue Code and the resolution should not be approved on that basis alone.
The Committee on Taxation understands that the California Masonic Foundation has received exempt status from the Internal Revenue Service as organized for
charitable and educational purposes (Section 501 (c) (3)) .
The Committee further understands that the Foundation has been classified by
the Internal Revenue Service as a privately supported organization-a private
foundation . A private foundation is defined (Section 509 (a)) as an organization
which is not a publicly supported organization by virtue of its failure to meet certain specified criteria enumerated in the code (Section 509 (a) (1), (2), (3), or (4)).
It should be observed that were the Foundation not classified as a private foundation it could still qualify with exempt status-a public foundation (Section 501 (c)
(3)) . Such classification would be advantageous in the avoidance of the excise tax
to which the foundation is subject.
The Internal Revenue Code generally prohibits donor-foundation financial
transactions . The prohibited transactions or "acts of self-dealing" generally
include any direct or indirect transactions between a private foundation and its do-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

217

not or related parties referred to as disqualified persons involving the transfer or
use of the foundation assets (Section 4941).
It appears that the Foundation and all of its trustees are disqualified persons
(Section 4946 (a) (1). The Deputy Grand Master, the Grand Secretary, and the
Grand Treasurer appear no more disqualified than any other trustees all of whom
are appointed by the major donor-the Grand Lodge.
If the trustees are all disqualified persons, it is then essential that no prohibited
acts of self-dealing occur between a disqualified person and the private foundation
(Section 4941 (d)). Self-dealing would generally be a transaction giving
advantages to Grand Lodge. It does not appear that the operation of the California
Masonic Foundation would at any time involve self-dealing, however the Trustees
should be aware of the prohibited acts .
Resolution # 5 does not appear necessary or to be of assistance in changing the
Foundation's status regarding self-dealing of disqualified persons. The Committee
on Taxation cannot determine that Resolution# 5 requires adoption based on the Internal Revenue Code.
The Trustees of the Foundation are to be commended for their attention to the
requirements of the Internal Revenue Code . Private foundations are subject to
complex laws and regulations and our Foundation must comply with the laws .
Adopted

CHAMPAGNE LIGHT WINE AND BEER MASONIC TEMPLES

(6)
To the Most Wo,shipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS , many Masonic Lodges own or lease buildings with Lodge room
and adjacent social hall and cooking facilities and are in need of financial
assistance from rental revenues;
BE IT RESOLVED, that, provided the Lodge room is separate from the social hall and facilities and has a separate entrance; such Lodges may rent their social hall and facilities for weddings, banquets , socials, benefits and other legalized activities, and the lessee may be allowed to serve champagne, light wines
and beer with refreshments through a licensed caterer under strict supervision of
Grand Lodge (or Inspector); provided that no individual or entity having control
of said building may become a licensee for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages, and further provided, that no alcoholic beverages may be sold, served or
consumed during the time the Masonic Lodge or any affiliated youth groups are
in session.
Respectfully submitted,
MANUEL M. DECOSTA, W.M., No. 525
JOHN NEWSHAM, P.M., No. 525
JOSEPH H . SCHNEIDER, P.M., No. 525

ARMAND MORAS, P.M.' No. 525
ROBERT A. BUSH, W.M., No. 435
EDWARD G. FREEMAN, P.M., No . 435

..
218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GEORGE M. PETERS, P.M. , No . 525
GLENN G. WHITESIDE, P.M., No. 525
JAMES C. WORSHAM, W.M., No. 169
JOHN T. BAXTER, P.M ., No. 534
MARTIN N. GESKE, W.M., No. 554
ROBERT B. SWIFT, J ~ W., No. 554
DoNALD LAMBE, W .M . , No. 461
G.W. NELSON, J.W ., No. 461
PETER H. SMITH, W .M ., No. 454
DoNALD S. PILMER, J.W., No. 169
ROBERT L. BOWEN, P.M., No. 525

WALTER E. WAITE, P.M., No. 435
DEEL. WEST, P.M., No. 435
DWIGHT N. DEANE, P.M. , No. 435
BERTRAND WICHELS, P.M. , NO. 87
CORTIS M. BEAMAN, P.M., No. 87
W . E. DIEFEND, W.M., N0.562
EUGENE J. ARMOUR , J .W., No. 30
K. C. BIRNBAUM, P.M., No. 120
ROBERT STEFFEN, P.M., No. 166
FORREST GIST, P.M., No. 356
H.D . DAY, P.M., No. 455

Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes is in sympathy with the
search by Lodges for additional revenues. Those Lodges having investment in
owned or leased buildings wherein facilities sufficiently separated from the
Lodge Room may be rented to individuals or groups for non-Masonic social,
commercial or other lawful events seek authority to permit renters to serve champagne, light wines and beer at such events.
It is difficult to perceive any way in which moderation in the use of alcoholic
beverages could be controlled and assured and the reference to " strict supervision of the Grand Lodge or Inspectors'' to prevent excess appears to the Committee to be unreasonably optimistic.
Each of us has been charged upon becoming a Master Mason to "preserve unsullied the reputation of the Fraternity ." By providing Masonic facilities for nonMasonic events at which the stimulus of intoxicants might lead to some of those
in attendance becoming noisy or unruly could certainly result in the conclusion in
the minds of neighboring residents or passers-by that Masons did not entirely obserVe the limits of good conduct.
I move adoption of Resolution No. 6 and your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
RESOLVED that a new Section be added to the California Masonic Code to
be numbered Section 324.3 to read as follows:
Section 324.3 . If the room used for Stated or Degree Meetings by a Masonic
Lodge or a prerequisite organization is separated from and by closing its doors,
can be isolated from, other rooms used for social purposes, then such rooms used
for social purposes may be rented for weddings, banquets, social benefits and
other legal activities, and the tenant may be puoted to serve champagne, light
wines and beer through a duly licensed caterer, under the supervision of an
Inspector or person designated by him; provided that no individual or entity
having control of said building or any part thereof may be or become a licensee
· for the purpose of serving alcoholic beverages within the building; and further
provided that no such beverage may be sold , served or consumed during the time

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

219

a Masonic Lodge, prerequisite organization or any youth group is holding a
meeting in the building.
A majority voted against the resolution.

RETIRING THE FLAG OF OUR COUNTRY

(7)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M . of California:
WHEREAS, it is desirable that the Flag of our Country be fonnally presented
at the Altar on all convenient occasions, and
WHEREAS, no person should be embarrassed or made to feel uncomfortable
in paying homage to his Flag, and
WHEREAS, some of our Masonic Brethren are not good vocalists and do not
wish to sing, and
WHEREAS , our National Flag would be formally presented more often if it
could be retired with a Pledge of Allegiance at the Altar in lieu of singing as pre·
scribed in the Monitor,
Section
and
329-a
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Section
554-w of the California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
"The Flag of our country shall be displayed at all Communications of the
Grand Lodge, and carried on all ceremonial occasions except at funerals, and it
shall be displayed at all meetings of our Lodges. At the annual election of officers and at such other meetings as may be deemed desirable by the Master, the
Flag shall be fonnally presented at the Altar by the Marshal and received, or retired, in the manner prescribed by the Grand Lecturer. In the retiring ceremony, a
Pledge of Allegiance may be used in lieu of singing if desired. "
Respectfully submitted,
OLEN FARMER, W.M., No. 616
O.H. CARSON, P.M., No. 616
B. LERETT. W.M ., No . 643
JOE
616
No.
P.M.,
BOWERS,
GLENN
L.J. KENYON , P.M., No. 643
GEORGE SaLLISON, s.w., No. 643
MERLE McCORMICK, P.M., No . 643
MARK DAY MINER , P.M., No. 643
STUART R. VENABLE, P.M. , No. 567 c. M. WINNEMORE, W.M ., No. 728
KENNETH M. JACOBS, s.w., No. 716 ROBERT E. GoOSSEN , s.w., No.728
CARL c. OSTER, P.M., No 643
ALAN v. SHILLING, P.M., No. 327
RALPH G. DIXON, s.w., No. 616
ROBERTL. TEVIS, J.W., No. 728
M. C . AULDRIDGE, P.M., No. 643
769
No.
P.M.,
BUTTERY,
E.G.
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes and on Ritual:
The above Resolution was withdrawn by its proponents.
(Note: See Supplement to Report of Grand Lecturer below:)

Grand Lecturer's Statement - Flag Ceremony:
Regarding the present ceremony of receiving the Flag of the United States in
our Lodges, I have the following comment:

220

221

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This Ceremony as now taught by the Grand Lecturer specifies that the Flag of
our Country shall be received in the manner clearly outlined in our Officers'
Manual and Monitor pages 53 through 54.
As regards Masonic Law, it is required that the American Flag be presented at
the Altar and received according to proper form at the annual election of officers,
and at such other meetings as may be deemed appropriate by the Master of the
Lodge. In other words, other than one time each year at the annual election of officers , it is entirely optional whether the Flag shall be presented at the Altar.
Grand Lecturers in the past have adopted the policy that if the option is exercised
to present the Flag of the United States at any meeting, then it must also be retired in the manner prescribed in the Monitor pages 55-56.
Also, ifthe Flag is received and retired , then it becomes a requirement that the
Brethren sing one chorus of America, or the Star Spangled Banner.
There is presently much objection to the Brethren being required to sing as the
Flag is retired, and having suffered through some extremely discordant examples
of such singing, this Grand Lecturer is just as opposed to this practice as are the
Brethren.
After thorough discussion of this situation with several of the Brethren, and
the entire Ritual Committee being in full accord , I now wish to state that henceforth the Grand Lecturer shall teach a new policy regarding the reception of the
Flag and that policy shall be as follows:
If the Lodge determines to present the Flag at a meeting other than the
required annual election meeting, they may do so in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Officers' Monitor.
They will not be required to officially retire the Flag, however, unless the
Master of the Lodge should so desire: and, further, I recommend that it become
policy of this Grand Lodge that singing America or the Star Spangled Banner at
retirement of the Flag be optional to the Master of the Lodge.

serve, freedom from demands of business or profession or oth~r ?rganizational
obligations, his family's attitude, and, to some extent, economic independence,
and
WHEREAS, the re~ommendation of this committee did not change a thing.
The same group was to make the choice of the "recommendee, " as stated i~ the
resolution. The Committee on Policy and General Purposes offered a substitute
resolution which only added three members of Grand Lodge who are not past ~r
present Grand Lodge Officers, to the Committee of Past Grand Masters. llus
does not accomplish that which was intended, that the members of Grand Lodge
should have a greater voice in the selection of the "recommendee" by being able
to submit and have considered those members of Grand Lodge they feel would be
qualified . In a Jurisdiction of this sire, there are many who are qualified and are
not known to the Past Grand Masters that would be willing to serve but are never
considered, and
WHEREAS, it is the considered opinion of many that a committee composed
of Past Grand Masters alone, and this is not to be construed as disrespectful, has
the effect of self-perpetuation, that the members of Grand Lodge, at large, have
not had a voice in the choice of the Junior Grand Warden and eventually the
Grand Master. No provision is made for any member of Grand Lodge to submit
names of Brothers qualified for consideration, nor are the Lodges, as such, represented on the Committee as proposed in the substitute resolution submitted by the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and
WHEREAS, it is the considered opinion and concensus of many that this
Committee should be more representative of the Lodges of this Jurisdiction. The
prohibition against sending the biographical sketch of the "reco~endee" ~s
submitted by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes is not a vahd
objection, if the' information is sent over the signature of the Grand Master. To
have the information disseminated, as has been done in the past,lly and at
various times by the Inspectors, makes more work for the Inspect~rs, an? d~esn't
always reach those you want to reach. It is certainly true that elect1oneenng 1s not
to be condoned, but has occurred in the past, resulting is disharmony. It is further
agreed that the Grand Master is the one man who should start the offi~ial process
of communicating the name of the Brother selected by the Committee as . the
"recommendee" for the office of Junior Grand Warden, that an approved biographical sketch should be included and the information, in writing, over the si~­
nature of the Grand Master, should be concurrently disseminated to all Lodges m
the Jurisdiction, the Committeemen, Inspectors and all Grand Lodge Officers .
NOW THEREFORE, in view of the above the following resolution is hereby
submitted:
RESOLVED, that Section 32 of the California Masonic Code be amended by
adding thereto a new paragraph reading as follows:
"The Grand Master shall appoint a committee consisting of9 members, to be
composed as follows: two (2) Senior Wardens, one from the North and one from
the South, two (2) Junior Wardens, one from the North and one from t_he South,
two (2) Past Masters, neither of whom are present Grand Lodge Officers, one

ELECTION OF JUNIOR GRAND WARDEN

(8)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A . M. of California:

WHEREAS, the Committee appointed by Past Grand Master William H.
Price at the recommendation of Past Grand Master Lester S. McElwain to consider all phases of the subject of the election of a Junior Grand Warden and as
reported to the Grand Lodge Communication in October 1973, did not accomplish that which was intended in the original resolution that was withdrawn in
1972. It is agreed that most of the facts stated in the resolution as submitted by
the Committee are valid, viz: that the recommendee be qualified and available.
His knowledge and devotion to Freemasonry, knowledge of tmperation of the
Grand Lodge, ritualistic proficiency, administrative ability and experience, Masonic leadership characteristics, and condition of health. Also, his willingness to

222

223

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

from the North and one from the South, three (3) Past Grand Masters, the senior
Past Grand Master from the area that the "recommendee" is being selected,
shall be the chairman of the Committee.
It shall be the duty of this Committee to receive, consider and recommend,
from the names of Brethren submitted by the members of Grand Lodge, one
name to the Grand Lodge for election as Junior Grand Warden. This Committee
to be appointed annually by the Grand Master to serve for a single term only and
concurrently with term of the appointing Grand Master.
The "recommendee" shall alternately belong to a Lodge in Northern
California one year and to a Lodge in Southern California the next year. The
name of the "recommendee" and his biographical sketch shall be sent to each
Lodge, Inspector, Committeeman, member of a Grand Lodge Board, Grand
Lodge Officers, and others on the Grand Lodge mailing list who are approved by
the Grand Master, not less than 60 or more than 90 days before the opening of the
Annual Communication. The chairman of the Recommending Committee shall
orally nominate the "recommendee" for election on election day at the proper
time. Any member of Grand Lodge may submit the name of a qualified Brother
to the Committee for consideration. Further, any member of Grand Lodge may
also be nominated from the floor of Grand Lodge on election day and if there is
such other nomination the election shall be by written ballot, but if there is only
one nomination election may be by viva voce vote.
RESOLVED FURTHER, that to the extent that the procedure specified in the
foregoing paragraph may be or appears to be inconflict with any of the provisions
of Annotation 335b this. amendment to Section 32 shall supersede said
Annotation, but the Annotation shall otherwise remain full force and effect, and
that Annotation 683n is hereby deleted.''
Repsectfully submitted,
MILTON E. AMMAN, P.M., No. 600 and No. 779

effectively prevent electioneering in one form or another if open nominations
should become permissable.
Your Committee further believes that the voice and role of the Past Grand
Masters in the selection of a "recommendee" for election as Junior Grand Warden is of great value to this Grand Lodge and that if a formal selection committee
is to be established by the Grand Lodge that there should be very strong representation on that committee of the Past Grand Masters.
The entire matter of the process of selection of Junior Grand Warden has been
presented and discussed at length earlier in this session when carry-over Resolution No. 1 of the 1973 Annual Communication was adopted. Resolution No. 8 is
another proposal seeking the same goal but by a different process. The Committee on Policy and General Puri>oses believes that the process proposed in Resolution No. 8 i~ not in the best interest of this Grand Lodge.
I move the adoption of Resolution No. 8 and your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes unanimously recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Committee on Jurisprudence indicated that the language of the Resolution
was sufficient to accomplish its purposes.
A majority vote against the Resolution.

Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 8 proposes a procedure for the selection of the Junior Grand
Warden which would provide for the appointment of a committee to recommend
a Brother for election as Jvrand Warden. The provisions of the resolution
include the composition of the committee, the procedure for disseminating the
name of a Brother chosen by the committee as the ''recommendee,'' and the
right of nomination for the office of Junior Grand Warden from the floor of
Grand Lodge on election day.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, while recognizing the
desirability of establishing a formal procedure for the selection of a "recommendee" for possible election as Junior Grand Warden, is concerned about the
introduction of nominations from the floor for election to this most important office. We believe that no matter what restrictions might be adopted to prevent
electioneering in relation to such nominations, it would be impossible to

APPOINTMENT -

JUNIOR DEACON
(9) '

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, t)lat portion of Article II, Section 1, of the Uniform Code of By
Laws, which reads:
''The other officers shall be appointed by the Master, except the Junior Deacon, who may be appointed by the Senior Warden'' is ambiguous, as it does not
indicate whether it is the RIGHT of the Senior Warden to make such
appointment; and
WHEREAS, it is the right of the Master to select appointive officers of his
Lodge; now therefore
BE IT RESOLVED, that the phrase ''except the Junior Deacon, who may be
appointed by the Senior Warden" be deleted, or that the sentence be amended to
include the words "with the permission of the Master," so that it will read:
"The other officers shall be appointed by the Master, except the Junior Deacon,
who may, with the permission of the Master, be appointed by the Senior
Warden."
Respectfully submitted,
IRVING A. BERLINER, P.M., No. 120

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolution No. 9 seeks to amend Article II, Section 1, of the Uniform Code of
By-Laws of Lodges so as to clarify the appointment of the Junior Deacon.
The concerned section confers absolute power to the Master for the
appointment of officers for the Lodge other than the elected officers as set forth
in Section 471 of the Ordinances of Grand Lodge. It does not vest the Senior
Warden with the exclusive right to make such appointment but rather permits
him to exercise his prerogative to appoint the Junior Deacon with the approval of
the Master.
The resolution as proposed does not change the purpose and intent of Section
1 of the Uniform Code of By-Laws of Lodges and its adoption would not accomplish the purpose intended by the proponent of the resolution.
I move the adoption of the resolution and the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which has been referred Resolution No.
9, reports as follows:
The Resolution requires that Section 342 be amended.
The alternative form of the Resolution as propounded creates an ambiguity as
to whether it is intended thereby to give the Master discretion to allow the Senior
Warden to appoint the Junior Deacon. The propounder of the Resolution has
informed your Committee that his intent is to propose that the phrase ''except the
Junior Deacon, who may be appointed by the Senior Warden," be deleted.
Therefore, to carry out the intent of the proponent, we submit the following
legislation:
''RESOLVED, that Section 342' of the California Masonic Code be amended
by deleting from the second sentence thereof the words 'except the Junior Deacon, who may be appointed by the Senior Warden,' so that such sentence shall
read as follows:
''The other officers shall be appointed by the Master.''
We move adoption of this Resolution without recommendation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

REVOLVING FUNDS - INCREASE AMOUNTS
(10)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, Section 401 of the California Masonic Code was amended in
1958 to provide for the establishment of two revolving funds of $100.00 each,
one to be used for the purpose of providing refreshments for all regular Lodge
functions, the other for the use of its Secretary for his incidental expenses.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

225

WHEREAS, the present purchasing power of the dollar has been substantially
depreciated since that time as a result of economic inflation to the extent that a
$100.00 revolving fun·d is no longer adequate for providing refreshments for all
Lodges.
WHEREAS, monthly replenishment of these funds are subject to audit by the
Auditing Committee of thwodge and total refreshment expenditures are subject
to Grand Lodge regulations.
BE IT THEREFORE RESOLVED, that the portion of Section 401 of the
California Masonic Code which authorizes the establishment of two revolving
funds be amended to read as follows:
"By appropriate Lodge action, a Lodge may establish two revolving funds.
One of not more than $250.00 for the use of its Stewards or Junior Warden as the
Master may determine in providing refreshments for all regular Lodge functions,
and one of not more than $150.00 for the use of the Secretary for his incidental
expenses, which said funds may be replenished monthly on presentation of
receipted vouchers."
Respectfully submitted,
STANLEY B. JACKSON, W.M., No. 328
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Proposed Resolution No. 10 at the 1973 Annual Communication sought permission for conducting the Masonic burial service for deceased Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Masons. Upon motion by the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, the Grand Lodge referred this resolution to committee for
study and report at this, the 1974 Annual Communication. The basis of the
referral was to permit study and possible reconciliation of inconsistencies in our
law relating to other possible rights and privileges for Masons who have not yet
received the degree of Master Mason. Unfortunately, this study has not been
consummated.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, continuing in its belief that
such a study is needed and appropriate before decision on Resolution No. 10 of
last year, therefore proposes again that this matter be referred to committee, and
to lessen the chance of inaction the following motion is offered for your
consideration:
I move that proposed Resolution No. 10, submitted at the 1973 Annual Communication, and as referred to committee upon motion by the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, be now directly referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes fgeview and study and to be reported for action at the
1975 Annual Communication.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
This Resolution proposes to amend Section 401 of the California Masonic
Code to increase the amounts of the two revolving funds for use of Lodge Stew-

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ards or Junior Wardens in providing refreshments for Lodge functions and
incidental expenses of a Secretary.
The Committee on Jurisprudence offers the following:
RESOLVED: That Section 401 of the California Masonic Code be amended
by striking the fifth sentence thereof and substituting the following:
" .. . . By appropriate Lodge action, a Lodge may establish two revolving
funds . One of not more than $250, subject to the provisions o_f Section 412 of this
Code, for the use of its Stewards or Junior Warden as the Master may determine
in providing refreshments for all regular Lodge functions; and one of not more
than $150 for the use of the Secretary for his incidental expenses, which said
funds may be replenished monthly on presentation of receipted vouchers."
We move the adoption of the Resolution.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

DELETE QUESTION NO. 15 APPLICATION FOR DEGREES
(11)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Masonic Order in the State of California for the past several
years has been declining in membership due to deaths, suspensions and withdrawals, and
WHEREAS, the Annual Proceedings of the 124th Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of the State of California shows for the years 1969, 1970, 1971,
1972 and 1973 a total loss of membership of over 15,000, and
WHEREAS, with the decline in membership in the Blue Lodges, it must follow that a decline in membership in the concordant bodies (Scottish Rite and
York Rite Bodies) is also a fact.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Question No. 15 be deleted
from the form of the Application for the Degrees of Masonry in Section 527 of
the California Masonic Code, that Question No. 16 be renumbered No. 15, and
that Annotations 527a, 527b, 527c, 527d, 527f, 527h and 527i, be deleted from
the California Masonic Code.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that the deletion of Question No. 15 on the
Application for the Degrees of Masonry will permit the encouragement of newly
raised brethren to become interested in and to become a member of either of the
concordant bodies, requiring only a satisfactory examination in the lecture of the
Master Mason Degree. That Question No. 15 on the application blank for the
degrees serves no particular purpose in Masonry, and should be deleted for the
reason as set forth in this paragraph.
(NOTE: On October 4, 1974 the proponents of the Resolution forwarded to the
Committee on Jurisprudence the following explanatory comments):
It has been pointed out that the language in the last paragraph of Resolution
No. 15 is somewhat conflicting with the real intent of the Resolution.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

227

May we therefore request that the words following "concordant bodies" in
the fifth line of the resolution, in the last paragraph ''requiring only a satisfactory
examination in the lecture of the Degree of Master Mason,'' be stricken from the
resolution and completely disregarded.
The real intent of this resolution is to eliminate the waiting period before a
Master Mason is eligible for membership in either of the concordant bodies.
Respectfully submitted,
OOYLE STOCKTON, P.M., No. 772
R.D. O'QUINN, P.M., No. 772
WALLACE, P.M., No. 387
J.R.
772
D.L. CHAMPLIN, P.M., No.
Referred to the Committies on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolutions No . 11 and 12 both propose a revision to Section 527 of the
Comia Masonic Code which specifies the form of application for Degrees in
Masonry. Both resolutions address themselves to amending Question 15 of the
application form.
In applying for the Degrees of Masonry, the Candidate must answer affirmatively Question 15 which states "Do you promise that you will not apply
for or receive any Degree or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or organization, the
prerequisite of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason, until
you have given satisfactory evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that
you are entirely proficient and well-qualified in the Candidate's Lecture of the
Degree of Master Mason and in no event within twelve months after you have
received the Degree of Master Mason?"
Resolution No. 11 proposes that Question 15 be deleted in its entirety. Resolution No. 12 requests that the proficiency requirement for the Master Mason
Degree be deleted. It would, however, retain the requirement for the twelvemonth waiting period as previously presented.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes believes that the promise involved in Question 15 as presently written provides the opportunity for a new
Master Mason to acquire additional information and thus become more familiar
with the spirit of Masonry as exemplified in his Lodge. The study and recital of
the Master Mason Degree proficiency continues the valuable education of the
Candidate, as previously accomplished for the Entered Apprentice and Fellow
Craft Degrees, and contributes to his understanding of Freemasonry and its
principles. Without such a comprehension no Brother is likely to be a worthy
applicant for any other body of Masonry.
Your Committee believes that a great deal of encouragement and assistance
should be provided for the newly raised Master Mason to enable him to satisfactorily complete his labors.
We further suggest that most Lodges could, and all Lodges should, utilize the
twelve-month waiting period to better advantage by providing more opportunities for Masonic training and explanation to new Brothers. In this manner we
can direct our attention to the quality of our members and lessen our concern over
the quantity.

228

229

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I therefore move the adoption of Resolution No. 11, and the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Resolution No. 11 would delete Question 15 from the form of Application for
the Degrees of Masonry. This would delete the requirement for proficiency in the
Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason and also the twelve month
delay requirement before applying for or receiving an initiation or degree in an
organization the prerequisite for which is that a person be a Master Mason.
To give effect to the resolution the Committee on Jurisprudence presents the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED: That Section 527 of the California Masonic Code be
amended by striking the present Question 15, and by renumbering the present
Question 16 so that it will be Question 15, and as amended Question 15 will read:
" 15 Have you read all the questions contained in the foregoing petition? Are
all of your answers thereto in your own handwriting? And do you, upon
your honor, declare your foregoing statements to be true?"
AND BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED: That Annotations 527a, 527b, 527c,
527d, 527f, 527g, 527h and 527i be and they are hereby deleted from the
California Masonic Code.
A majority voted against the resolution.

for are we not all Brother Masons? Even those who are members of the Shrine or
other Masonically affiliatexdies? and
WHEREAS, removal of the requirement that a Brother Mason MUST pass a
Third Degree proficiency examination simply because he desires membership in
a concordant body of Masonry will serve to unite Masons, not only in mind, but
in purpose as well, and will thereby further the cause of Freemasonry in many
respects.
THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that Question 15 of Sect. 527 of the
California Masonic Code be amended to read as follows:
15. Do you promise that you will not, within twelve months after receiving
the Degree of Master Mason, apply for or receive any degree or be initiated in
any body, order, or organization the prerequisite of membership therein is that a
person be a Master Mason?
Respectfully submitted,
MERLE C. HAMMOND, P.M., No. 326
SoLJAMPOLSKY, P.M., No. 674
HARVEY TRUEMAN, P.M., No. 716
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General .
Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Based on the report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes as
previously presented for Resolution No. 11, I therefore move the adoption of
Resolution No. 12, and the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
The Jurisprydence Committee has considered the proponents' statement of
intent and their proposal and has drafted the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Section 527 of the California Masonic Code be amended
by deleting from Question 15 the words, " ... until you have given satisfactory
evidence, by strict examination in open Lodge, that you are entirely proficient
and well-qualified in the Candidate's Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason and
in no event ... " so that Question 15 after this amendment will read:
15. Do you promise that within twelve months after you have received the
Degree of Master Mason you will not apply for or receive any degree or
be initiated in any Lodge, Order or Organi:z.ation, the prerequisite of
membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason?

AMEND QUESTION NO. 15 APPLICATION FOR DEGREES
(12)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, our present law very effectively and unmasonically establishes
two classes of Masons with the requirement that a proficiency examination in the
Candidates' lecture of the Third Degree MUST be passed by a Master Mason
before he may petition for membership in any concordant or Masonically affiliated body of Freemasonry; that same requirement, however, is not made of the
Master Mason who desires nothing further than membership in a Lodge of
Master Masons, and
WHEREAS, it is the duty of Masons and Masonry to actively promote brotherly love, friendship and fraternal association among all Masons, and
WHEREAS, these, as well as activity and involvement in many worthwhile
Masonically oriented projects may be found by some in becoming members of
one or more of the concordant bodies of Masonry, and
WHEREAS, the true Masonic way is to encourage and promote this type of
activity; to make it easier for Masons to engage in· all types of fraternal
association rather than discourage it by placing restrictions upon one Brother Mason, but not upon another, and
WHEREAS, the often parroted phrase, "He only wants to use his Lodge
membership as a springboard into the Shrine," should be repugnant to Masons,

A majority voted against the Resolution.

230

231

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OBJECTION BEFORE BALLOT BY NON-MEMBER

The Master may make such investigation as he deems necessary to determine
the validity of any information he receives. We, therefore, see no reason why
.
only the Junior Warden should be designated t? make the objecti?n.
I, therefore, move the adoption of the resolutmn and the Committee on Pohcy
and General Purposes recommends a "No" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to which was referred Resolution No. 13
reports as follows:
. .
Since objections may be made before the ballot on an apphcatmn for the
degrees, or before an Entered Apprentice has been passed to the Degree of Fellowcraft, or before a Fellowcraft has been raised to the Degree of Master Mason
it seemed obvious to your Committee that the proposed legisl~tion shoul~ be
revised to cover all 3 situations and the proponent of the Resolutmn. has advised
us that this was his intention.
Therefore, to carry out the intent of the proponent we submit the following
legislation:
.
.
"Resolved, that a new Section numbered 540. l be added to the California
Masonic Code jing as follows:
540.l Objection by non-member. A Lodge and jts Master must give
immediate attention to a proper objection made by another Lodge, any worthy
Mason or any non-Mason to the election or initiation of an applicant for the
degrees, the passing of an Entered Apprentice to the Degree of Fellowcraft or the
raising of a Fellowcraft to the Degree of Master Mas~n. .
.
The Junior Warden of the Lodge should make an obJecuon on the basis of the
information received, and the Master should appoint a committee to investigate
and report on the validity of the objection. If said Committee should det~rmi~e
that the objection is proper and valid, proceedings should be taken as provided m
this Code under such circumstances, but if the Committee determines that the
objection is not proper and valid, the Junior Warden shall then immediatswithdraw the objection."
To avoid duplication, Annotations 483i and 542a should be deleted.
We move the adoption of the legislation.
Adopted 5/6 vote.

(13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

WHEREAS, often a Master receives information from a non-member of his
Lodge indicating that an individual applying for the degrees in his Lodge may indeed be unworthy of becoming a member of the Fraternity, and
WHEREAS, the wording of Section 540 of the California Masonic Code
leads the Master to believe that he cannot or should not give any countenance to
an objection made by one other than a member of his Lodge, and
WHEREAS, such misinterpretation of the true intent of Section 540 in many
cases leads the Master to ignore information which could possibly save future
embarrassment to his Lodge and to Masonry by refusing admission to an unworthy candidate.
NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, that a new section be added to the
California Masonic Code numbered 540.1, which section shall read as follows:
540. l "OBJECTION BEFORE BALLOT BY NON-MEMBER. A Lodge or
its Master must give immediate attention to an objection made by another Lodge,
any worthy Mason or any other person to the election of an applicant for the
degrees.
The Junior Warden of the Lodge should make an objection on the basis of the
information received, and the Master should appoint a committee to investigate
and report on the validity of the charge. If said committee should determine that
the objection is not a proper or valid one, the Junior Warden shall immediately
withdraw the objection."
Respectfully submitted,
H. DoUGl.AS LEMONS, P.M., No. 699
Referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes:
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
By Resolution 13 the Grand Lecturer seeks to clarify Section 540 of the
C.M.C. as to who may object to the election of an applicant for the degrees of
Masonry.
Section 540 now states that "objection ... may be made ... by any member
of the Lodge." Many Masters of Lodges interpret this to mean that credence may
be given to and action taken upon only those objections made by members of the
applicant's Lodge.
It would seem to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes that the
Master of a Lodge is duty bound to be as well informed concerning applicants to
his Lodge as is possible. Thus, should any Mason, whether or not a member of
the applicant's Lodge, or a non-Mason, express doubt to the Master as to a
candidate's character or reveal information to the Master which creates such
doubt in the Master's mind, then the Master, himself, under present law can and
should lodge an objection to a ballot being taken.

REPORT ON CONSTRUCTION OF
SECTION 324.2 of CALIFORNIA MASONIC CODE
At the time Section 324.2 was presented to Grand Lodge in 1968 the Committee on Policy and General Purposes felt that the proposed Resolution should be
expanded and accordingly ~-wrote the Section and discussed it with representatives of the proponents and the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The original Section as rewritten by the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes used the words "may be used or served" in lines 5 and 8 of the Section

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

as it appears in the California Masonic Code, but after a discussion with representatives of the proponents and the Committee on Jurisprudence the words
"used or" were deleted from line 8. This deletion was made after it was pointed
out that at the 1966 Communication of Grand Lodge Annotations l 99b, l 99c,
l 99f, l 99i and l 99k which prohibited the use of liquor had been repealed and
deleted (See P. 225 of the Proceedings) and that Annotation 199g had been
adopted in 1957 permitting the holding of social meetings in a building where liquor was sold over a bar and that some organizations requiring Masonic affiliation for membership maintained club rooms which were separated from other
business or meeting places in buildings owned by them and in which members
maintained lockers where they kept liquor they used to have a drink before
a dinner after which they would be working. It was felt it was much better to
allow these club rooms and the use (but not the serving) of liquor therein as
above stated than to require that those who were meeting and having dinner in
these club rooms go out to a nearby bar for a drink, recognizing that it is an
American custom and practice to have a drink before dinner. In other words, it
was felt that it is much .better to drink at home than to go out t<? a bar to get a
drink.
It is hoped that this explanation will clarify the meaning of Section 324.2.
Incidentally, it might be noted that when the line was drawn as to treating Masonic Temples and other Masonic buildings alike Grand Lodge refused to adopt
legislation treating them all alike. (1967 Proceedings P. 214) .
Respectfully submitted,
THEODORE MERIAM, Chairman of Committee on
Policy and General Purposes
LEO E. AANDERSON, Chairman of Committee on Jurisprudence
I move that the foregoing be received and placed in the proceedings and that
the Code Commission be instructed to place a note following Section 324.2
referring to this report.
Adopted 5/6 Vote .

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge , F. & A . M . of California :

Audit reports as prepared by our auditors, Hurdman and Cranstoun, have been
reviewed by this Committee. We suggest your inspection in the report of our
Grand Treasurer published in the Proceedings .
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

The Report of the Grand Treasurer was reviewed by this Committee. We extend
our thanks to a devoted Mason and recommend approval of his report.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

233

Grand Lodge expenditures for the past fiscal year were well within the total budgeted amounts adopted at last October's communication. The Grand Master duly
approved the usual and necessary supplemental appropriations for items for which
budgets had not been provided, or were insufficient, totalling $28,440 which
amount included the $9,200. publishing deficit for the California Freemason
magazine. We recommend your approval of his action.
MASONIC HOMES

We have reviewed the Masonic Homes Trustees Report and we concur with
their request to maintain the $1 .00 per capita for next year and we are pleased to so
recommend.
Your Committee on Finance extends congratulations to the Craft and to the
Endowment Board on another record breaking year of contributions.
''CALIFORNIA FREEMASON' ' MAGAZINE

During this Communication the California Freemason Publication Board recommended that the per capita tax for the California Freemason be increased from
35¢ to 40¢ . Grand Lodge approved and this increase will be reflected in the
proposed per capita.
COMMENTS RELATIVE To PROPOSED BUDGET

On behalf of the members of this Grand Lodge in attendance at this Communication, this Committee extends thanks to the Elective Line, the Committees and
Boards, the administration as represented by the Grand Secretarys office for the
close attention you continue to show to the need to hold controllable expenditures
in line. This is tividenced by the fact that , notwithstanding the necessary increase
in staff salaries and related payroll expenses, and the increased costs of printing
and supplies, the budget we are proposing for the current fiscal year is only 4%
greater than last year's actual expenditures.
Such matters in the Grand Master' s Message and in the several Resolutions and
reports which have been approved by this Grand Lodge and now required funds
have been provided for in the proposed budget.
Details of the budget will, as usual, be published in the Proceedings. A
summary is as follows:
Administrative and Office . ...... . .......... . .... . . . ... . . . . . $188,000
264,200
General . E~pense . . ... .. . . ... .. .... .. .......... . ...... . .. .
48,800
Appropnat1ons .. .... .. .... .. ....... ... ........ .... . . . .. . .
Total Expenses .. .... .. ..... . .... . ..... .. ..... . . .. . $501,000
Revenue .. .. . .. ..... .. . . .. ... ..... . ..... . .. . .. .. .... . .. .
Per Capita from Lodges plus fees for Degrees ....... . .. . . . .. . $444,000
100,000
Estimated Investment Revenue ..... . ..... . ..... .. ..... . .. .
Total Estimated Revenue . .. . . . .. . . . . ....... . ..... . .. . $544,000
43,000
Estimated Excess of Receipts over Disbursements ... .. ... . .... . .
13,000
Estimated Publishing Deficit - California Freemason . ...... .. . .

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BUDGET-1974-75

INSURANCE

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries ................................. .
Less - Allocations ...................... .
Grand Lodge Office - Temple Operation ...... .
Audit Fee and Related Expense ............. ,. ..
Data Processing Service .................... .
Postage and Express ....................... .
Less - Allocations ...................... .
Outside Services .......................... .
Telephone and Telegraph ................... .
Less - Allocations ...................... .
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ...... .
Less - Allocations ...................... .
Personal Property Taxes .................... .
Investment Counsel ........................ .
Retirement Pension Plan .................... .
Less - Allocations ...................... .
Medical Plan ............................ : .
Less - Allocations ...................... .
Repairs and Maintenance ................... .
Supplies and Miscellaneous ................. .
TOTAL ........................... .

235

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$218,000
110,000

12,000
2,000
7,300
1,300
13,800
5,000
15,500
6,300
2,700
1,000

$108,000
26,500
2,000
3,600
10,000
1,500
6,000
8,800
1,300
900
9,200
1,700
1,500
7,000
$188,000

GENERAL EXPENSE

Constituent Lodges' Supplies ............................ . $ 35,000
Annual Communication ................................ .
25,000
2,500
Cornerstone Ceremonies ................................ .
6,000
Conferences - Out of State ............................. .
18,000
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel ............................ .
1,000
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler .......................... .
12,500
Grand Master's Travel and Sundry ........................ .
6,500
Grand Master's Secretarial Expense ....................... .
36,500
Representatives' Mileage ............................... .
Printing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$56,000
50,000
Less - Allocations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6,000
4,000
Retirement Pay ....................................... .
12,000
Veteran Buttons ....................................... .
Past Grand Masters' Meetings ............................ .
700
3,100
Payroll Tax Service Program ... : ......................... .
RITuALISTIC EXPENSE

Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery ........................ . $ 3,800
Ritual Committee and Inspectors' ......................... .
Conference and Travel Expense ........................ .
51,000

Workmen's Compensation - Lodges ..................... .
Workmen's Compensation - Grand Lodge ................. .
Public Liability & Extended Coverage - Lodges ............ .
Miscellaneous - Grand Lodge ........................... .
Group Travel Accident ................................. .
TOTAL ....................................... .

$

000
1,000
23,000
2,000
4,900

$301,500

APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee ................................... .
Activities Committee - Union City Visit .................. .
Board of Control ...................................... .
Jurisprudence Committee ............................... .
Charters Committee .................................... .
Columbia Temple ..................................... .
Commercialism Committee .............................. .
Policy and General Purposes Committee ................... .
Grievances Committee ................................. .
Constitution O~servance Committee ....................... .
Correspondence Committee ............................. .
Credentials Committee ................................. .
Pay of Members Committee ............................. .
Necrology Committee .................................. .
By-Laws Committee ................................... .
Endowment Board ..................................... .
History CoQJ.mittee .................................... .
Investment Committee ................................. .
Lodge Financing Committee ............................. .
Masonic Cemeteries Committee .......................... .
Retirement Pension Plan Committee ....................... .
Insurance Committee ................................... .
Public Schools Committee .............................. .
Masonic Information and Responsibility Committee .......... .
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges ..................... .
Public Information Committee ........................... .
Library Committee .................................... .
Code Commission ..................................... .
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles ......................... .
Public Education Task Force ............................. .
Special Committee on C.M.C ............................ .
Youth Activities ...................................... .
Finance Committee .................................... .
Bi-Centennial Committee ............................... .
Law Observance Breakfast .............................. .
History Publication .................................... .

$16,000
6,400
1,300
1,700
200
2,100
600
1,500
1,200

500
200
1,000
800
300
400
23,500
200
800
1,700
1,000
600
100
6,000
1,500
100
800
1,200
600
1,800
200

500
2,200
1,600
3,600
5,000
700

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DeMolay Liasion Board ..... ... .. . ............. . ....... .
Taxation Committee .................. ................. .
Advisory Committee on Fiscal Affairs ... ... ............... .
125th Anniversary Committee .............. ........ ..... .
TOTAL . .................. ... . ........ . ....... .

237

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

500
200
400
2,500
$91,500

RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office .................. ............. . $188,000
General Expense .... . .................. ............... . 301,500
Appropriations .................. . . ... .......... ... .... .
91,500
GRAND TOT AL .................. .............. . $581,000

REVENUE
Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees ............. . ........ . $444,000
Estimated Revenue from Investments . ... .. ..... ........... .
100,000
Payment from Masonic Homes - Endowment Board ......... .
23,500
Payment from Masonic Homes - Union City Visit .......... . .
6,400
Estimated Receipts - Lodge Supplies ............ ... ...... .
35,000
Estimated Receipts - Lodge Payroll Service .. .............. .
2,300
Estimated Receipts - Activities Week .................. ... .
8,000
Estimated Receipts - Law Observance Breakfast ............ .
3,600
Estimated Rental Income - Columbia Temple .............. .
400
Estimated Rental Income - Old Masonic Hall in L.A ..... . .. . .
800
TOTAL ESTIMATED REVENUE..... ............. $624,000
TOTAL APPROPRIATIONS AND BUDGETED ITEMS 581,000
ESTIMATED EXCESS OF RECEIPTS OVER
DISBURSEMEN TS............ . .................. ....... $ 43,000

CAPITAL ADomONS AND REPLACEMENTS . .. ...... .. .... . .. .. . .. .. ..

4,800

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
Revenue .. . ......... . ................ . ............... .
Estimated Expense .......... ... .... .......... ......... .
Estimated Publishing Deficit .................. ......... .

76,000
89,000
$13,000

BUDGET - ONE QUARTER
JULY 1, 1975 THROUGH SEPTEMBER 30, 1975
ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE
Salaries ....... . .................. ..... .. ............ .
Grand Lodge Office - Temple Operation .................. .
Audit Fee and Related Expenses .................. ........ .
Data Processing Service ...... ....... .......... ... .. .... .
Postage and Express .................. .......... .. ..... .
Telephone and Telegraph ........ . .................. .... .
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes .................. .
Retirement Pension Plan .................. .............. .
Medical Plan .................. .................. ..... .
Supplies and Miscellaneous ...... . .................. .... .
TOTAL .................. ............... . . . ... .

$47,200

GENERAL EXPENSE
Constituent Lodges' Supplies .................. .... .. .... .
Annual Communication .................. .............. .
Cornerstone Ceremonies .. ..... .... ...... .. ... ...... .. . . .
Grand Lodge °Officers' Travel .............. . .... .. ....... .
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler .................. ........ .
Grand Master's Travel and Sundry .................. ...... .
Grand Master's Secretarial Expense ............... .. . .. . .. .
Printing .................. .................. ......... .
Retirement Pay .................. .................. ... .
Veteran Buttons ........ . ...... . ...... . .. ........... ... .
Past Grand Masters' Meetings .............. . ..... ........ .

$ 9,000
1,000
600
4,500
300
3,100
1,600
12,500
1,000
3,000
200

RrruALISTIC EXPENSE
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery .................. ....... .
Ritual Committee and Inspectors' ........... . ......... . ... .
Conference and Travel Expense .. .. ..... .... ..... .. .... .

$27,000
6,600
2,000
900
2,500
1,500
2,200
2,300
400
1,800

900
12,500

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INSURANCE

Workmen's Compensation - Lodges ..................... .
Workmen's Compensation - Grand Lodge ................. .
Public Liability & Extended Coverage - Lodges ............ .
TOTAL ....................................... .

800
200
6,000
$57,200

APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee ................................... . $
Board of Control ...................................... .
Jurisprudence Committee ............................... .
Columbia Temple ..................................... .
Policy and General Purposes Committee ................... .
Grievances Committee ................................. .
Constitution Observance Committee ....................... .
Credentials Committee ................................. .
By-Laws Committee ................................... .
Endowment Board ..................................... .
Investment Committee ................................. .
Lodge Financing Committee ............................. .
Masonic Cemeteries Committee .......................... .
Retirement Pension Plan Committee ....................... .
Public Schools Committee .............................. .
Library Committee .................................... .
Masonic Information and Responsibility Committee .......... .
Public Information Committee ........................... .
Old Masonic Hall in Los Angeles . . . . ..................... .
Youth Activities ...................................... .
Finance Committee .................................... .
Bi-Centennial Committee ............................... .
History Publication .................................... .
DeMolay Liasion Board ................................ .
Advisory Committee on Fiscal Affairs ..................... .
125th Anniversary Committee ........................... .
TOTAL ....................................... .

3,000
300
300
500
300
300
100
200
100
5,000
200
400
300
100
1,500
300
400
200
500
500
600
900
100
100
100
600
$16,900

RECAPITULATION

Administrative and Office ............................... .
General Expense ...................................... .
Appropriations ........................................ .

47,200
57,200
16,900

GRAND TOT AL ................................ .

$121,300

239

We accordingly offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That for the purpose of paying the expenses of Grand Lodge, a
per capita of $3.40 be levied for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1975, divided as
follows:
Masonic Homes ......................................... .
Grand Lodge Constitutional ............................... .
Grand Lodge Additional .................................. .
California Freemason .................................... .

$1.00
.50
1.50
.40

TOTAL PER CAPITA ............................... .

$3.40

Respectfully submitted,
JOHN A. SICKENBURGER, Chairman
ORAN 0. BRIDGES
F. CHOW CHAN
ADRIAN C. WEST

JOSEPH H. HORN

Each of the recommendations of the Committee on Finance was separately
adopted. The entire report of the Committee was then adopted.
Grand Lodge was called off at 4:45 P.M. to be called on again at 9:30 A.M.
Thursday.

240

241

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION-Thursday, October 17, 1974

Grand Bible Bearer, Paul Todd, Seafaring Lodge No. 708 .
Senior Grand Deacon, E. Ross Baylis , San Carlos Lodge No. 690.
Junior Grand Deacon, Albert J. Cadis, Menorah Lodge No. 623 .
Senior Grand Steward, Rodger Page, Mosaic Lodge No. 218.
Junior Grand Steward, John C. Simpson, Le Progres De L' Oceanie Lodge No.
371.
Grand Pursuivant, Mark E. Schrock, Temple City Lodge No. 612.
Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Gi;-and Tiler, M. William Holsinger, Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
Announcement was made of the following appointments by the Grand Masterelect:
As Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California the reappointment of John
M. Faulkner, Raymond Howe and Bus Orear, and the appointment of Past Grand
Master Raymond A. Ebbage and Stephen Collins to fill vacancies on the Board,
including that of Past Grand Master Myron E. Smith whose resignation was
occasioned by his moving out of state.

Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 A.M., the Grand Master presiding . Worshipful Brother G. K. Rodgers, Master of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 raised
Grand Lodge. The Grand Chaplain delivered the Invocation.
The minutes of the morning and afternoon sessions of Wednesday , October
16th were read and approved.
NOTE: Grand Lodge considered and acted upon the Grand Master's recommendations (see " Action by Grand Lodge, " following the Grand Master's
Message).

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the Annual Election
and directed the Grand Secretary to read the sections of the Constitution applying
thereto.
The R.·.W.·.Burton Meyer, Jr., Golden State Lodge No . 358 , was elected
Grand Master.
The R. · W. ·John F. Roberts , Jr., Palo Alto Lodge No. 346 was elected Deputy
Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. · .Kermit A. Jacobson, Cannelita Lodge No. 599, was elected Senior Warden.
The W. Donald B. McCaw , Park-Crockett Lodge No. 139, was elected Junior
Grand Warden.
The M. · .W. ·.Chester R. MacPhee, Past Grand Master, Golden West Lodge
No. 455, was reelected Grand Treasurer.
The M. · .W. ·.Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, Plymouth Lodge No.
560, was reelected Grand Secretary.
The V. · .W. · .H. Douglas Lemons, Bixby Knolls Lodge No. 699, was
reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect announced the names of the appointive officers as
follows :
Grand Chaplain, Roland R. Bach, Service Lodge No . 594.
Assistant Grand Lecturers: Burton 0. Young, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336;
Edward E. Seagle, Polaris Lodge No. 730; Ulysses G. Partopulos, King
Solomon's Seaport Lodge No. 260; Vernon L. Gordon, Joppa Lodge No. 508;
George W. Perkins, Mizpah Lodge No. 378; Ernest W. Newton, Silver Gate
Lodge No. 296.
Grand Orator, Donald Ingalls, North Hollywood Lodge No . 542.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Louis D. Callison, Vacaville Lodge No. 134.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Verne W. Hendrix, Mount Diablo Lodge No. 448.
Grand Marshal, Thomas J. McKimson , Melrose Lodge No. 602 .
Grand Standard Bearer, James H. Tanaka, Channel Lodge No. 757.
Grand Sword Bearer, Harry L. Hibler, Azure Lodge No . 533 .

NOTE: Following their installation it was reported that R. · .W. ·.John F.
Roberts, Deputy Grand Master; R. · .W. ·.Kermit A. Jacobson, Sr. Grand Warden; and R. · . W. · .Donald B. McCaw, Junior Grand Warden, by virtue of their offices are members of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes .
As Trustee of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the appointment of
John F. Roberts in lieu of Burton Meyer, Jr.
Grand Lodge was then called off for the purpose of admitting Masons and
friends to witness the second ''open'' installation of Grand Lodge Officers in the
history of this Grand Lodge.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
Most Worshipful William H. Price, Past Grand Master, acted as Master of Ceremonies, and the Officers, elected and appointed, were installed by the retiring
Grand Master in accordance with the Ritual.
The newly installed Grand Master introduced members of his own Lodge and
their ladies present in Grand Lodge, together with his own wife, all of whom were
present in recognition of this singular honor. He then called upon the group assembled who accorded a respect by a standing ovation to a number of guests visiting
from our home for adults at Union City.
Retiring Grand Master Ebbage then presented the Grand Master's lapel pin to
newly installed Grand Master Meyer, and other Officers exchanged the Arthur S.
Crites lapel pins.
Past Grand Master Theodore Meriam presented to Junior Past Grand Master
Ebbage a Past Grand Master' s apron, and in tum Past Grand Master Myron E.
Smith presented to him also a Past Grand Master's certificate which evidenced his
having served as Grand Master.

242

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems presented the retiring Grand Master with
the Past Grand Master's lapel pin as an evidence of appreciation of the Fraternity
for the services which the Grand Master had rendered during his term in office.
Most Worshipful Chester R. MacPhee, Grand Treasurer, presented to Past
Grand Master Ebbage for his wife, a gift from the members of Grand Lodge. Most
Worshipful Raymond Ebbage on her behalf expressed appreciation for the
thoughtfulness.
Newly installed Deputy Grand Master John F. Roberts acknowledged his new
responsibilities with humility and introduced a member of his Lodge who in tum
presented a beautiful hand-crafted gavel to newly installed Grand Master Burton
Meyer, Jr.
Following proclamation of installation, newly installed Grand Master Burton
Meyer, Jr. expressed his appreciation for the thoughtfulness behind the presentation of the gavel, his humility on having been installed and expressed appreciation
to the Brethren for having been elected to this high Masonic office. His expression
of committment for their confidence and his pledge for devoted service to the
Fraternity was received with standing ovation by the Brethren and friends. He then
introduced a large number of friends and Brethren who had travelled from throughout the Jurisdiction to witness the installation.
At 1:45 P.M. all business being completed, Grand Lodge closed in due form.

lf~J~
G;JZ~a:te:

SPECIAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

243

SPECIAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Grand Lodge Audit ............................................ 244
Statement of Annual Returns, 1974 ............................... 249
Masonic Homes Audit ....................................... : .. 255
Memorial Temple Audit ........................................ 282
California Masonic Foundation Audit ............................. 288
Statistical:
Residents of Union City ...................................... 293
Children at Covina Home ..................................... 302
Contributions to Special Reserves .............................. 304

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

245

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE AUDITS

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENTS OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE
Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

To The Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of
California

1974

1973

$ 251,112
100,000

$ 135, 768
100,000

50,000

153,250

10,352

10, 352

1,022,923

964,302

119,849
44.813

86,645
46.z84

$1,5991049

$1.497,101

We, or the predecessor firm, have examined the statements
of assets, liabilities and fund balance of The Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
(a nonprofit, unincorporated, fraternal organization) at June 30,

1974 and 1973 and the related statements of revenues collected and
expenditures paid for the years then ended.

Our examinations were

made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and
accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such

Cash
Time certificate of deposit
Marketable securities (Note 1):
Bonds (market value: 1974,

$30,400; 1973, $116,875)

Convertible preferred stocks
(market value: 1974, $4 400·

•

1973, $4,725)

Common stock (market value:

$793,400; 1973, $1,176,382)

,
1974,

furniture, equipment, and improvements
(Note 1)
Other assets

other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances.
In our opinion, the financial statements identified above
present fairly the assets, liabilities and fund balance of The Most

LIABILITIES
Accounts payable
Due George Was'hington Memorial Fund

Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of

$

1,141
3.8z2
5,016

$

1, 708
J12J2
5,640

California at June 30, 1974 and 1973, arising from cash transactions,
and the revenues collected and expenditures paid by it for the years
then ended, on a basis consistent with that of the preceding year.

FUND BALANCE
Balance at beginning of year
Add excess of revenues collected
over expenditures made
Bequests and contributions

1,491,461

1,415,910

93,776
8,796

75,551

Balance at end of year

1,594,033

11491,461

$1,5991049

$1.497,101

Certified Public Accountants

August 13, 1974

The accompanying note is an integral
part of the financial statements.

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENTS OF REVENUES COLLECTED
AND EXPENDITURES PAID

NOTE TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

Revenues collected:
Contributions from Lodges
Less contributions for:
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Publication California Freemason
George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association
Fees for charters and dispensations
Income from investments:
Dividends
Bond interest
Bank interest
Certificate of deposit interest
Supplies sold, net of supplies
purchased for resale
Publication California Freemason:
Per capita from Lodges
Subscription revenue
Less publishing expenses
Other
Total revenues collected
Expenditures paid:
Administrative and office expenses
General expenses
Appropriations, net of reimbursements

Net gain (loss) on sale of securities
Excess of revenues collected
over expenditures paid
The accompanying note is an integral
part of the financial statements.

June 30, 1974 and 1973

121:4

1213

$900, 170

$914,095

(333,814~

(338,425~

~34,944

76,950

U18Z~1)

450,587
60

~35,515
78, 138

(31932)
458,085
10

71,995
5,514
9,684
121026
102,289

85, 311

3,054

(582)

65,664
7,250
12,397

76,950
11 z4z
78,697
8z18zi
(9,174)
322
547,168

78,138
21Zl2
80,853
801213
(60)
11z
542,881

182, 115
265,649
3416Zl
4821432
64,733
221043

164,750
247, 786
361784
4421320
93,561
(181010)

~ 231 zz6

~ Z21221

1 - Summary of Significant
Accounting Policies
The more important accounting policies are summarized
as follows:
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements are presented on the cash
basis of accounting. Generally, revenues are
recorded at the time of receipt and expenses are
recorded when paid.
Investments
Investments in securities purchased are carried
at cost and securities received by gift or bequest
are carried at approximate market value on the
date received.

.

Furniture, Equipment,
and Improvements
At the 1957 Annual Communication, the Grand Lodge
approved the policy of capitalizing amounts
expended for furnishings and equipment after
June 30, 1957· No depreciation is provided on
these assets.
Pension Plan
The Grand Lodge contributes to the California
Masonic Retirement Plan for the benefit of
substantially all full-time employees. Total
pension expense for the years ended June 30, 1974
and 1973 was $7,875 and $7,808, respectively. All
prior and current service costs have been funded.
Assets held by the Fund at December 31, 1973 were
in excess of vested benefits.
Federal and State Income Taxes
The Grand Lodge is exempt from Federal and state
income taxes.

247

>

'1

c
c
Ul

Cl>

~

Ul
'O
Cl>

c+

()

c+

I-'

ID

w
v

......

::l

I-'

\0
-l

'1
Cl>

.i::-

I-'
ll>
c+

......

0
::l

c+
0
c+

::r
Cl>
....,

ll>
I-'

......

Ul
c+
ll>
c+

Cl>

p.
't:I

Cl>

c

sCl>

......

::l
c+
Ul

CT
I-'
()

>
()
()

0

c

::l
c+

t

::l
c+

"'

c+
ll>

;><'
Cl>

::l
ll>

ll>

f

ID

......

::l

....,
0

'1

~

Cl>

ll>
::l
p.

::l

>

()

::l

Cl>

c+
Cl>

p.

~

'O
'1
Cl>

"'
::l
Cl>

c+

Cl>

p.

......

::l

ll>
I-'
I-'

c+

en

c+
ll>
c+
Cl>

0
....,

Cl>

s

0

......
ll>

H

~

6l
'O
'1
0
()

Bl

Cl>

p.

Cl>

c

3:

'1

0

Cl>

"' ll>"'

c+

:I;
0

'O
'O

Ul

......

'1

I-'

0

c

'1

::r
Cl>

ll>

~

s
~

::r
ll>

::l

....,
0

::l

'1

0
::l

ll>

CT

c....
Cl>

Cl>

c+

p.
c+
0

0
c+

::r
Cl>
'1
'1

Cl>

()

c+

0

Cl>

p.

::r

H

Cl

'%J

ll>
::l
p.

'1

"'

~
m

@

0

"'c

CT

()

H

c+

c+ ll>
Cl> ::l
p. p.

H

....,

......

;g

'O '1

z
>
z
()

ll>

::l

::l

H)Cl> c;:l

'%J

::l

0

c
::l

Ul

>C

Cl>

;:J

......

'1

() I-'
0 ()

~

~
....,

ll>
I-'

0

....0

::l
c+

ll>

()
()

'%J

en ll> ::r
c+ ::l ......
ll> P.'O
....,
c+

&;
z~

s

::l

Cl>

c+ '1 :I;
Cl> Cl>

c::

Cl>

......

0

~

0
::l

I-'

't:I
't:I

'1

::l

......

en

s

::r

::rcn o

c"'

~

><

Cl>

....,

c+

::r
ll>

ll>

'O
'O

......

s......

0
....,

c+
ll>

;><'
Cl>

t:""'

0
I-'

::l

"'......

Cl>
Cl>

ll>
c+

Bl

Cl>

Cl>

CT
Cl>
Cl>

::r
......

()

Cl>

Ul

...,

Cl>

~

Ul

p.

......

::l

1-'0~

Cl>

Cl>

::l
p.

8.

ll>

~

00

Ho::l Cl>
3:
0
'1 "' 00
::l 0 ...., Ul
...... ....,
c+

~

'O

N

0

ll> ll> 0...,
I-' Ul p.

......

::l

ll>

() 3: t:""'

::l

~

p.

c'1

c;:l

'1

'1

ll>
::l
p.

"'

Cl>

I-'

'1

::l

::l

......

......
c+
......

::r
......
ll>
I-'
'O
....,
......
...., c

c+

'1

c
p.

()

sll>
Cl>

ll>

c+

0
....,

::r
Cl>

'1

"'ll>c+

Ul

'1

::r

Cl>

0
....,

l<

0
c+

ll>
I-'

'O

0
I-'
I-'
0

c+

c;:l

...,

....,

0
....,

ll>

::l
p.

......

()
()

......
ll>

Ul
c+
Ul

ll>

......

0
::l

c+
Cl>

......

::l
c+
Ul

ll>
I-'

::r

c+

::r
....,

Cl>
Cl>

Cl>

"'

ll>

'%J
'1

"'0
::l

c+

......

......

c+

c+

::r
......

"'
....,

()

......
....,

0
::l

v

ll>

::l

()

Cl>

......
::l
......

......

::l

'1

0
'O

z

>

Cll

t:""'

......

0

'Tl

z

'1

""l

~

0

sll>

...,~

c+

......

0
::l

H

0

z

'O
'1
Cl>

Ul

Cl>

::l
c+
Cl>

p.

......

::l

c+

::r

Cl>

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODQE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED FROM LODGES

Year Ended June 30J 1974

George

Washington
Masonic

California

Masonic
Grand

Contributions due per statement ot annual
returns, June 30, 1973
Add (deduct) adjustments for previous years and

refunds, net

Contributions of initiates and affiliat e s

Homes

ot

Masonic
Memorial
Temt>le

Publication
Cali:fornia

Freemason

Association

National
Memorial

~

~

Cali:fornia

$78o,30l

$450, 570

$244,631

$ 7, 335

$76,950

$ 815

~)

____ll

----1.lli.)

~)

---

----1!2)

:;i;:i
;l>

T79,755

450,587

244,189

7,233

76,950

796

0

120,415

----

~

..ll.1.!!

.....la.212

~

~

~

---

~

~

~

STATEMENT OF ANNUAL RETURNS

Rate Per Member

Total Per

Degree or
Initiate

1974 Annual
Returna

$ 2.00
.35

$434,234

LOO

In support or the California Masonic
Memorial Temple, contributions or initiates
In support of George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association, contributions or initiates
Note :

As of June 30, 1974 there were 220,337 Master Masons in good
standing. or this total, 3,220 were exempt trClll the per
capita tax due to waivers trom. the Grand Lodge, leaving
217, 117 subject to the per capita tax .

LOO

25 . 00

Revenue Applicable
to the Year Ended

June

~

30 1975

-

$434,234
75,991
l0,822

~

~

~

i6:~~~

521,047
In aupport or the Masonic Homes of California :
Per capita
Contr1but1ons or initiates and attiliatea

z

~

0

Year Ended June 30, 1974

In support of Grand Lodge activities:
Per capita:
General support and ac ti vi ties
California Freemason
Degrees conferred

Cl

217,117

$

----

521,047

'Tl

(j

;l>

t:
~
:;i;:i
z

;;;

217,117

334,242

89,625

244,617

9.00

35,694

27,711

7,98 3

.....l:.22

~

--1..212.

__Jlfil

~

$120,415

~

~

'°

250

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENTS OF GENERAL EXPENSES PAID

STATEMENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND
OFFICE EXPENSES PAID

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

Annual communication
Cornerstone ceremonies
Conferences
Grand Lodge officers' travel
Grand Organist and
Grand Tiler
Grand Master's travel
and sundry
Grand Master's secretarial
expense
Investment counsel for
Lodges
Grand Lodge regalia
Representatives' mileage
Printing
Retirement pay
Veterans' buttons
Inspectors' aprons and
stationery
Ritual committee and
inspectors' conference
and travel expense
Past Grand Masters' meetings
Blood bank administration
Payroll tax service program
Less recoveries from Lodges
Insurance:
Workmen's compensation:
Lodges
Grand Lodge
Public liability and
extended coverage
for Lodges
Group travel accident
insurance
Miscellaneous insurance

251

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Actual

Actual

Budget
1274
$ 25,000
2,500
5,000
25,000

1274
$ 25,175
2,250
6, 740
27,684

1273
$ 23,615
2,237
3,390
23,719

1,000

1,000

1,000

12, 500

13,981

8,326

5,655

6,500

3,379

2,951

428

37,000
41,000
4,ooo
11,000

116
36, 741
44,994
3,949
11, 768

7,500
(2, 417)
36,065
39,549
3,949
10,263

(7,500)
2,533
676
5,445

4,500

3, 252

3,356

(104)

52,500
1,000

50,503
492

2,800

3,459
(1,241)

49,556
1,357
91
2,056

6,ooo
1,000

2,311
291

(593)
545

2,904
(254)

23,000

22,257

24, 709

(2,452)

4,900
1,100

4,815
l,n3

5,397
1,162

(582)

~262,300

~262,642

~247, 786

$17,863

2,000

Increasel
(Decrease)
$ 1,560
13
3,350
3,965

1,505

947

(865~
(91
1,403
(1,241)

268

Salaries
Grand Lodge office,
Temple operation
Audit fee and related
expense
Grand Treasurer
Data processing services
Outside services
Postage and express
Telephone and telegraph
Payroll taxes
Personal property taxes
Investment counsel
Retirement pension plan
Medical plan
Supplies and miscellaneous
Maintenance and repairs

Budget
12:z4

12Z4

12:z3

Increase
(Decrease)

$103,000

$101, 620

$ 94,405

$ 7,215

26,500

26,500

24,000

2,500

2,000
200
6,200

2,000

2,722

5,188
929
9,396
5,284
7,801
1,291
1,298
7,875
1,543
10,868
222

5,351

(722)
(163)
929
1,918
1,207
222
(60)

§182,112

~164,z20

8,500
5,500
8,800
1,400
1,500
7,800
1,600
11,000
§184 1 000

7,478
4,077
7,579
1,351
1,298
7,808
1,452
7,229

67
91
3,639
222
~17,362

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AND

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE OF FREE
ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA

THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND
LODGE OF FREE AND ACCEPTED
MASONS OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA
STATEMENTS OF APPROPRIATIONS
Years Ended June 30, 1974
and 1973

STATEMENTS OF APPROPRIATIONS
Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

Budget
in4
Activities Committee
Less receipts
Activities Committee - Union
City visit
Less reimbursement from
Masonic Homes for Grand
Lodge trip to Union City
Board of Control
Jurisprudence Committee
Charters Committee
Columbia Temple:
Rental income
Rental expense
Commercialism Committee
Policy and General Purposes
Committee
Grievances Committee
Constitution Observance
Committee
Correspondence Committee
Credentials Committee
Pay of Members Committee
Necrology Committee
By-Laws Committee
Endowment Board
Less reimbursement from
Masonic Homes
Grand Master's Relief Fund
History Committee
Investment Committee
Lodge Financing Committee
Masonic Cemeteries Committee
Retirement Pension Plan
Committee
(Carried forward)

$15,000
(7,800)

Actual

Actual
127:4

i2n

Increase
(Decrease)

$12,942 $10,675
(7,522) (6,879)

$2,267
(643)

5,300

5,005

4, 720

285

(5,300)
2,000
1,600
200

(5,005)
1,052
1,657
104

(4,720)
1, 781
1,529
169

1285l
729
128
(65)

(400)
2,100
500

(250)
1,823
152

(500)
1,517
171

250
306
(19)

1,500
900

1,633
1,208

1, 318
920

315
288

1,800
300
1,000

363

694
265
1,238
784

265
!3311
383

Boo

200
600
22,700
(22,700)
300
1,000
2,000

1,200

253

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

855
718
211
226
21,983

405
19,213

(21,983) (19,213)
250
1,700
230
694
630
1,282
1,353
874
954

(66
211
(179)
2, 770

12, 770 l
1,450
(230)
64

g~l

600

468

525

_ill)

25,400

18,740

19,479

(739)

(Brought forward)
Insurance Committee
Public Schools Committee
Sale of public school posters
Masonic Information and
Responsibility Committee
Recognition of Foreign
Grand Lodges
Public Information Committee
Library Committee
Code Commission
Old Masonic Hall - Los Angeles:
Rental income
Rental expense
Special Committee on CMC
Youth Activitie~
Past Grand Master's Excess
over Budget
Finance Committee
Bi-centennial Committee
Audit Committee
History Publication
De Molay Liaison Board
Herkelrath Trial Cost
Taxation Committee
Advisory Committee on Fiscal
Affairs
125th Anniversary
Law Observance Breakfast
Less receipts
Public Education Task Force
Homes Outside Relief Committee

Budget
in4

127:4

in~

$25,400

$18,740

$19,479

100
7,000
(3,000)

6,965
(2,717)

11
7,395
(3,205)

( 430
488

2,500

1,154

2,095

(941)

100
1,200
1,200
100

665
527
154

532
1,188

133
(661)
154

(800)
1,800
1, 500
2,000

(890)
1,599
950
2,259

(755)
1,806
1,377
2,078

~135l
207

1,500
1, 700
100
900
500

1,511
2,013

490
1,634
404

1490l
123
1,609

200

16

807
493
(371)
63

1567l
493
371
(47)

500
200
4,500
(3,500)
1,500

279
110
4,369
(3,440)
119
48

452
74
3,877
(3,140)

(173)
36
492
(300)
119
48

~471200

~~4i671

~~6iza4

( $2!113)

240

Increase
(Decrease)
($

739)

(lll

427
181

254

255

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GRAND LODGE

To the Board of Trustees
Masonic Homes of California

OF FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS OF THE STATE OF CALI FORNI A
INVESTMENTS

We, or the predecessor firm, have examined the statements

June 30, 1974
BONDS

of assets, liabilities, reserves, and fund balances of Masonic Homes

Face Value

$

31, 250

of California (a nonprofit corporation) as of June 30, 1974 and 1973
Dillingham Corp., CV Sub, Deb., 9.75%, April I, 1999
TOTAL BONDS

50,000
50 ,000

and the related statements of revenues collected and expenditures
paid and fund balances for the years then ended.

Our examinations

were made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and

Number of
Shares
100

such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical, 4.125%, CV PFD
TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

10,352

circumstances.

10,352

In our opinion, the financial statements identified above
present fairly the assets, liabilities, reserves, and fund balances

COMMON STOCK

.

of Masonic Homes of California at June 30, 1974 and 1973, arising

Number of
Shares

268
1,400
4,954
6,545
1,083
200
100
2,800
1,000
150
200
500

6oo
20
2,950
800
250
3,000

from cash transactions, and the revenues collected and expenditures

Bankamerica Corp.
Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Cabot, Cabot & Forbes Land Trust
Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty.
Continental Oil Co.
El Paso Natural Gas Co.
Exxon, Inc.
General Electric Co.
General Motors Corp.

5,834
33,636
IOI, 700
287. 285
40, 16o
5,440
7,061
115 ,005
73,040
47,922
12,439
21,468
23,049

International Business Hachines
Kerr McGee Corp.
Mob i 1 Oi 1 Corp.
Morgan, J. P. Co., Inc.
Northwest Pipeline
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co.

105,228
49,963
7,430
86,264

Penney, J.C. Co., Inc.
Standard Oil Co. of California
Warner Lambe rt Pha rmaceu ti ca 1
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

I ,022,924

paid by it and changes in reserves and fund balances during the
years then ended, on a basis consistent with that of the preceding
year except for the accounting change described in Note 3.

Certified Public Accountants
August 13, 1974

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENTS OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES, RESERVES,
AND FUND BALANCES

N
VI

0\

June 30, 1974 and 1973
1974

1973

~

1974

1973

76,959

148,643

14,613,565

12,6o2,227

;g

2,421,182

1,578,612

g

17,034,747

14,18o,839

trl

LIABILITIES, RESERVES, AND FUND BALANCES

General Fund:
Cash (Note)

835,261

Accounts receivable
Notes receivable (Note 2)

655,593
82,280

1,203,578
10,659
587, 170
251, 742

2,350,000

800,000

10,000

Due from other funds
Investments (Note l):
Certificates of deposit
Commercial paper (quoted market:

1974, $-o-; 1973, $50,000)

General Fund:
Account payable
(Note 3)

General Fund balance:
Designated for
special purposes

50,000

Bonds (quoted market:

1974, $4,361,000; 1973, $4,236,000)

5,380,980

4,684,621

Convertible preferred stock
(quoted mar~t :

1974, $844,000; 1973, $733,000)

1,047,361

874,655

6, 715, 796
21,813
12,622

5,863,005
761
3,291

$17,111,706

!14,329,482

Common stock

0

Undesignated - available
for general operations

z00

(quoted market:

1974, $5.950,700; 1973. $6,576,000)
Prepaid insurance
Other assets
Total General Fund

Property Fund - land,
.b uildings, and equipment

$ 9,009,997

en

~
Total General Fund

$ 8,872,083

Property Fund
Permanent Endowment Fund:
Due General Fund
Fund balance

Permanent Endowment Fund

$30,018,247

!28,179,522
Restricted Trust Funds :
Due General Fund
Fund balance (Note 4)

Restricted Trust Funds (Note 4)

$ 1,013,966

$ 1,545,956

-l

$17,111.706

$14,329,482

$ 9,009,997

$ 8,872,083

$

1,890
30,016,357

$

$30,018,247

$28,179,522

82,280
931,686

245, 767
1,300,189

l,o13,966

1,545,956

~

5 ,975
28,173,547

The acco11panying notes are an integral
part or the financial statements.

r
'O t-3
ll> ::>'
'1 ID

~
0 ()

c+

Pl

< ID

0 ()
HJ ()

ID

0

c+ s

::Y'O
ID Pl

txl

HJ~
..........

ll>

zID

.....

c+

::i ::i

::i

::i
() ::i

ID

.....
!:l
()
'1
ID
ll>
ID

Pl

Pl IJQ

()

,.... 0
Pl cT

Pl
cT

"'c+ Pl"'

::i

I-' ID

Pl '1
c+ ID
ID
Pl
ID !:l

s

::i

cT,....

"'::i

cT
ID

ID

{ll

'1 "'
ID 0
><HJ
'O
ID '1
!:l ID •
p. <
,_.. ID
cT ::i

c c

'1 ID
ID "'
()
'O 0
Pl .....

"' "'

p.

..........
p. ID

0

()

HJ

cT
ID
p.

'<;
ID
ll>
'1

::a
ID

DJC/.lt::IO

0
scP.<TID
cp. 0() ,....
< O'"<!ll>"'

!:l ID c+ !:l
P.!:lOP>

0

c+

ID ID
1-'!J>!:l ::i
ID I-'· c+ <T
;:l P. ID ID
ID
'1 '1
::i '"<! cT cT
<TCP>ll>

cT

;:<"

,....
::i
CD

0

.::i

'1 '1
ID ID

'"<!

"'"'

c

ID ID
'1 '1

p.

ID ID

::i

ID

"' "'

°",....

'1 ID
•• 'O "'
0 ID
{ll

"' '1
ID
<
"'ID

::i •• 0
::i

p.

,....
cT
c'1

ll> '1

< < ::i 'O
IDIDP.C'1

"'

"'

ID

C/.l

~DJ

O'

IDID<T,_..HJ

~~;? ..... §

s

sa

()

Pl
cT

>-j>-j{/l()

,.... ..... 0

ID ID

::i
ID

<><P.'1"'
0 ,....
HJ
c+!:lt-3CDID
OP>'1'0'1
C ID {ll

cT Pl '1
Pl ()
I-' ID ll>
p.
ID ID P.
>< ::i,....
'O c+ c+
ID "' ,_..

::i ::i
c+ cT

ll>
.....

ll>

Ill 0 ::i 0 ::i

<TO!:llD
::Y'1 P.'1
ID
<
'1 () '1 ID
ll> ID
'O 'O HJ

::i ..........
!J> p. ::i ::i

txl

!J>
p.
t-3 p.
'1 ••
t::IOP> HJP>

::i
::i
,....

>-<

::i

°"
0

"'

0

p.
ID
p.

'<;
ID
ll>
'1

~

"'

<<

C/.l

tx:1
::i

HJ

::i

ID

UJ

~
Pl
.....

1\)

_.,,.

I\)

.....
.....

co

I\)

_.,,.
I\)
co
\Jl
--J
0

~- J

0
O'I

\Jl
0
--J

..... O'I
\.0 ..... --J O'I

_.,,.

...........

.....

•

co

CO\Jl

w

............... +:- r\)

--J \Jl O'I ai

0

UJ --J (]\ O'I

I\)>-'
0--J
w

O'I>-'

coco

~~
co
w

--J

_.,,.

O'I
.....
I\)

c:

z

lilC/.l
H

0

~
t-3

DJ
t::I

.....

~
~

~

C/.l

0

z
H
0

a
~

C/.l
0
'"<!

0
!J>

~

~

::i

t"'

~
::a

.....

~

H
!J>

ll>

w

'"<!

0

~
1-

~
~

ID
Pl
'1

p.

~
UJ

t::I

§';!

z

0

~
~

z

0

5
@
~
(j

f:

~

~

~

;;:z
0

DJ

0

~ ..........

.....

--J

1-

.....

,\Jl
--J
ai
w

O'I
I\)

.....

_.,,.
--J

_.,,.

UJ

0
--J

25~--J\Jl -""I

UJ

O'I 0 \Jl \.0
\Jl 0\.0 I\)
OW>-'--J

O'I

co

-""

UJ .....

O'IO

•

w

-""--J
O'l--J

-""Vl

E~
.....

w

\Jl

co
.....

--J

UJ

N

VI
.....J

258

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

259

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PROPERTY FUND

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS AND FUND BALANCE

STATEMENTS OF GENERAL FUND REVENUES COLLECTED
AND EXPENDITURES PAID

June 30, 1974 and 1973

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973
1974
Revenues collected:
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California
annual returns:
Membership at $1 per capita
Contributions of initiates
and affiliates at $25 each
Adjustments for previous years

$

Amounts received on pensions
assigned by Decoto residents
Payments through Lodges for:
Decoto residents
Covina residents
Other
Total revenues collected

Gain on sale of securities
Excess of revenues collected
over expenditures paid
The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

1974

1973

$5,799,010

$5,806,657

3,199,475

3,040,139

11,512

25,287

$9,009,997

$8,872,083

$8,872,083

$8,343,905

Add (deduct):
Decoto - from Decoto reserve

7,406

11,244

24,001

199,642

ASSETS

Permanent Endowment Fund incom~
Revenue from investments:
Interest on:
Bank deposits
Notes receivable
Bonds
Commerical paper
Certificates of deposit
Dividends

Expenditures paid:
Operation of Masonic Homes:
Deco to
Covina
Outside relief
Administrative and general
Total expenditures paid

1973

219,856

223 ,250

$

113,900
59
333,815

114,825
350
338,425

1,536,853

1,355,619

47,685
50,047
320, 729
4, 786
92' 186
328,864
844,297

56,816
34, 118
220,454
3,166
3,646
295,580
613, 780

892,462

834,457

Covina - from Covina reserve

15,574
49,322
64,896

17,862
47,766
65,628

Alida 0 Meserve Trust Fund

23,766
3,696,089

13, 514
3,221,423

2,221,623
571,657
15,075
451,281
3 ,259,636
436,453

2,140,888
582,304
18,872
215,406
2,957,470
263,953

270,054

43,984

$

Land, buildings, and equipment
(Note 1):
Deco to

706,507

$

307 ,937

Covina
San Francisco office

FUND BALANCE
Balance at beginning of year

3,978

Reserve for
additions and replacements

237,596

316,611

Retirements

(131,089)

(3,297)

137,914

528,178

$9,009,997

$8,872,083

Balance at end of year

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

STATEMENTS OF REVENUES COLLECTED

STATEMENTS OF ASSETS, LIABILITY, AND FUND BALANCE

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

June 30, 1974 and 1973

1974

1973

1974

ASSETS
Savings accounts
Notes receivable (Note 2)
Investmen ts (Note 1):
Certifica tes of deposit
Bonds (quoted market:

$

131,212
63,525

$

197 ,092
33,572

300,000

390,000

1974, $11, 801, 500; 1973, $12, 697 ,000)

14,837,190

14,307,929

1974, $915,000; 1973, $859,000)

1,299,299

1,193,323

13,383,143
29,819,632
3,878
$30,018,24 7

12,056,907
27,948,15 9
699
$28,179,522

Convertib le preferred stock
(quoted market:

Common stock (quoted market:

1974, $11,874,oo o; 1973, $12,543,00 0)

Total investmen ts
Other assets
Total assets

Interest on certificat es of deposit

$

1,890

5,975

FUND BALANCE
Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Contributi ons through Lodges
Less collection expense
Net contributi ons through Lodges
Progress payments on
pledges - unallocate d:
At beginning of year (deduct)
At end of year
Bequests
Gain on sale of securitie s, net
Contribut ions
Memorials
Net increase
Balance at end of year
Total liability and fund balance
The accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financial statement s.

28,173,547

26,489,962

1,039,246
(5,168)
1,034, 078

1,010,383
(4,959)
1,005,424

(~8,295)

(62,943)
58,295
305,591
337,890
8,327
31, 001
1 1 683 1 585
28, 173 ,547
$28,179,522

6,666
353,775
431,619
5,554
29,413
1,842,810
30,016,35 7
$30,018,247

1973
$

Interest on bonds

785,080

Interest on bank deposits

14,942

22,072
2,512

Interest on commercia l paper

593 ,074

543,783

Interest on notes receivable

2,547

2,248

Net expense from real estate

(715)

(76)

$11536,853

$1,355,619

Dividends

$

$

6,785
920,220

Revenue transferre d
to General Fund income

LIABILITY
Due to other funds

261

Note:

The Permanent Endowment Fund
is restricted by Ordinance s of
Grand Lodge so that no portion
of the principal shall be
expended for any purpose, and
the income therefrom shall be
used only for the maintenan ce
and general operation of the
Masonic Homes.

The accompany ing notes are an integral
part of the financial statement s.

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

263

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

~~~g 0~~~8~
r:.d r:~u!:~ ..::r"'cD ....;,o mN'°.

~~~~~g Mt- ~;3;~;C\I

~~~
r:~~~~~ ~
N..::t
\0
C'l'1N

('--..:;t Ll'IC0\0\0

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
RESTRICTED TRUST FUNDS

0\..-t..:;tt'-C\l.-4

...

..:;t

I

.-1

C\1.-lr-IC\I

"' "'~

..:;t(¥1(J).-4('-Lf'I

t-MC\INlf'\a).-1

~C""ll"-C\1.-4

a'.JNfY'l.-1.-IC\I

...

C\l{T'lC\1.-1

.., "'"'
-"<-0
0

STATEMENT OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

"'"'

·~·O~·
~ ~-

June 30, 1974 and 1973

1974

1973

Cash in savings accounts
Notes receivable
Investments (Note 1):
Common stocks (quoted market:

156,079
2,906

121,579
2,404

1974, $495,200; 1973, $836,500)

Convertible preferred stock
(quoted market:

609,970

831,893

""~I
0

I

1974, $61,100; 1973, $56,500)

76,006

61,933
200,045

1974, $131,200; 1973, $308,250)

169,005

328, 102

$1, 013' 966

$1,545,956

82,280

$ 245,767

97.717

93,478

44,318

44,369

16,570

16,570

3,891
242,947
226,488
111,984
12,572

4,701
288,198
321,240
236,271
119,574
12,800

45,491

37,898

78,472
26,864

73,151
25,746

24,372

26,193

931,686

1,300,189

$1, 013, 966

$1,545,956

Commercial paper
Bonds (quoted market:

., ;1

"'
·~·

ASSETS

...

~

~

"'

I~ I

"'

NO

"" "'"'

' 1
"' "..
I 0 .. 1 " "
e~
N

·lfil

~

~

I

I~

·I ~I
~

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES
Due to General Fund
Restricted Trust Fund balances:
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
George F and Laura E Brigham
Scholarship Fund
George M and Florence G Perine
Endowment Fund
Harriet C Wadleigh
Endowment Annuity Fund
Student Aid Fund
Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund
Alida 0 Meserve Trust Fund
Minnie E Peterson Fund
Walter W and Maude S Schultz
Scholarship Fund
Mildred R Brown and Leroy G Brown
Memorial Fund
Frederick E and Frieda E Sommers Trust
Ralph Walter Kanz
and Russell Joseph Kanz Trust
Total Trust Fund balances

$

~$'8-;;;:&R 8~t:'t-8~ i~~~

..::tC""'\<D.-4t-Ll'\ l"-r-IC\IC\ILC\CO.-t

.-.

~.;r:r::.iri..D .:;ro~..omN"'
~fT'lt'-N.-t

...

<DNfT'l.-lr-IC\I

NfT'lN.-1

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.
~
~

"'

264

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

265

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30 1974 and 1973

June 30, 1974 and 1973
Reserves for
Special Purposes
1 - Summary Of
Accounting Policies
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements are stated on a modified
cash basis of accounting. Generally, revenues
are recorded at the time of receipt and expenses
are recorded when paid. (See Note 3 for changes
in basis of accounting during current year.)
Investments
Investments in securities purchased are carried
at cost and securities received by gift or
bequest are carried at approximate market value
on the date received.

The trustees have established various special
reserves to which are added gifts and bequests
and other amounts which generally are used at
the direction of the trustees for purposes other
than direct operating expenses. The assets
represented by these reserves are included in
the assets of the General Fund.
Pensions
The Homes contributes to the California Masonic
Retirement Plan for the benefit of substantially
all full-time employees. The total pension
expense for the years ended June 30, 1974 and
1973 was approximately $72,000 and $71,000,
respectively. All prior service and current
service costs have been funded. Assets held by
fund at December 31, 1973 were in excess of
vested benefits.

Other Assets
Other assets consist of life insurance policies,
real estate, and mineral rights assigned or
bequeathed to the Homes. These assets are
recorded at the nominal value of $1 each for
accountability. Payments by the Homes of
obligations of the assignors secured by these
assets are added to the nominal value, with the
exception of life insurance premiums which are
charged to expense when paid.
Property
Land, buildings, and equipment are recorded at
original cost and no depreciation is taken.
Additions which represent minor replacements of
property are charged to expense.

Federal and
State Taxes on Income
The Homes is exempt from Federal and state taxes
on income.

2 - Notes Receivable
Notes receivable arise from the sale of real estate
assigned to the Homes by residents of Decato and from real estate
received as gifts or bequests by Homes.

3 - Change In
Accounting Method
During the year ended June 30, 1974, the Homes changed their
method of accounting for expenditures from accrual to the cash basis
for expenses other than payroll. The effect of this change is an
increase in the excess of revenues collected over expenditures paid
for the year ended June 30, 1974 in the amount of $75,800. The
financial statements for the preceding year have not been restated
for the effects of this change.

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1974 and 1973
4 - Restrictions On Trust Funds
John and Lena Luckenbach Fund
The principal of this fund, restricted by the terms
of the Will of the donor, is to be kept intact and the
income used only for the benefit of the care of orphans
or the aged in Masonic Homes of Southern California.
George F and Laura E Brigham Scholarship Fund
The principal of this fund is held as a Scholarship Fund
for the benefit of the Covina Home residents, of which
$25, 000 may be loaned for this purpose. Income of this
fund is restricted and may be used only for providing
scholarships.
Walter W Schultz and Maude S Schultz Scholarship Fund
The income from this fund is restricted and may be used
only to provide financial assistance to needy children
for educational purposes.
Mildred R Brown and Leroy G Brown Memorial Fund
Principal and income from this fund is to be used for
making loans for educational purposes to any children
that the Board of Trustees deems worthy.
Frederick E and Frieda E Sommers Trust
This fund is to be used exclusively for the education
of full orphan children.
George M and Florence G Perine Endowment Fund
The principal of this fund, subject to the provision
included in the Will of the donor, shall be kept
intact and only the income therefrom shall be used
for the benefit of the Decoto Home.
Harriet C Wadleigh Endowment Annuity Fund
This fund, in the original amount of $3 0 ,000 , is
subject to a contract with the donor providing for the
payment of certain life annuities out of the principal
and income thereof. Under the terms of the contract,
principal of the fund expended in payment of the
annuities is to be later restored out of income when
the annuities no longer absorb the entire income.
After restoration of the principal to the original sum
of $30,000 , the income from the fund is to be used for
the benefit of the residents of the Covina Home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1974 and 1973
Student Aid Fund
This fund is designated by the trustees for use for
student aid.
Florence Katherine Burt Trust Fund
The principal of this fund, subject to the provision
in the Will of the donor, was to be used for
renovating present premises or making permanent
additions to the Masonic Homes within a period of
ten years from January 5, 1965, the date of the
decree of distribution. One third of the principal
was designated for the Covina Home and two-thirds
for the Decoto Home. The assets were expended for
the designated purposes, and the fund was closed
during the current year.
Edmund Clement Atkinson Fund
The principal of this fund, subject to the provision
in the Will of the donor, shall be used to contribute
to comfort, convenience, and enjoyment of the
residents of the Decato Home.
Alida o•Meserve Trust Fund
The principal of this fund is to be used for
playgrounds, playground equipment, and other
comparable forms of amusement for the boys at Covina.
Minnie E Peterson Fund
The principal of this fund is held by the Homes
subject to a life annuity.
Ralph Walter Kanz and Russell Joseph Kanz Trusts
The principal and income of these trusts shall be
used for the education of the two named beneficiaries,
subject to the discretion of the trustees. When both
beneficiaries have completed or abandoned their
education or reached age 27, the trust estate
remaining shall be distributed to the Masonic Homes
of California.

267

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

269

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

STATEMENTS OF BOARD DESIGNATED GENERAL FUND BALANCES

SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

The additional information presented in the following
pages has been taken primarily from accounting and other records of
Masonic Homes of California.

This information has been subjected to

Reserve for additions and replacements
Reserve for Covina redevelopment
Reserve for Decoto redevelopment
Covina reserve
Decoto reserve
Unappropriated reserve
Covina entertainment reserve
Decoto entertainment reserve

the tests and other auditing procedures applied in our examination
of the financial statements of Masonic Homes of California.

Total reserves
for special purposes

In our

1974

1973

$ 7,332,650

5,450
2,884,412
4,313,383
50,000
14,289
13 ,381

$ 6,454,883
43 ,441
5,350
2,531,989
3,490,561
50,000
8,623
17,380

~14,613 ,565

~12,602,227

opinion, such information is fairly presented in all material
STATEMENTS OF RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

respects in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole
although it is not necessary for a fair presentation thereof.

Certified Public Accountants

August 13, 1974

Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Assets assigned by residents on
admission to the Decoto Home,
including proceeds from sale of
real estate and life insurance
policies
Bequests
Memorials
Contributions
Transfer to General Fund - other
Transfer to Property Fund - for
additions to Covina Home
Transfer from Property Fund - prior
years' capital additions - Decoto
facility survey

1974

1973

$ 6,454,883

$ 5,978,260

449,310
503 '769
31,590
42,576
(4,109)

604, 193
178,333

(237 ,596)

(316,611)

92 ,227
877,767

476~623

$ 7,332,650

$ 6,454,883

Net increase
Balance at end of year
Note:

15,392
(4,684)

This reserve is credited with amounts
to be used for general purposes of
the Decoto and Covina Homes.

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
STATEMENTS OF COVINA RESERVE

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

STATEMENTS OF RESERVE FOR COVINA REDEVELOPMENT

Balance at beginning of year

$

Add (deduct):
Contributions
Transfers to Covina reserve

Note:

1974

1973

$43,441

$29, 783
13,658

(43,441)

Net increase (decrease)

(43,441)

13,658

Balance at end of year

$ -0-

$43,441

This reserve was credited with amounts
to be used for Covina redevelopment.

Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Bequests
Contributions
Transfer from Burt Fund
Transfer from Covina
redevelopment reserve
Transfers to General Fund to
reimburse the fund for operating
expenses of Covina Home:
Replacement of equipment
Alumni newsletter
Employee in service study program
Housing
Cornerstone dedication
Transfer to Property Fund
Net increase
Balance at end of year
Note:

1974

1973

$2,531,989

$2,459,239

323,025
15,411
11, 732

268' 196
14,971

43,441
(9,504
(14
3 '000
1,077
3,590
(24,001
352,423
$2,884,412

~

(3,325l
(352
(3' 000
(4,098
(199,642)
72,750
$2, 531, 989

This reserve is credited with amounts to
be used for the benefit of the Covina Home.
STATEMENTS OF DECOTO RESERVE

STATEMENTS OF RESERVE FOR DECOTO REDEVELOPMENT

Balance at beginning of year
Add:
Contributions
Balance at end of year
Note:

This reserve is credited with amounts
to be used for Decoto redevelopment.

1974

1973

$ 5,350

$ 5,300

100

50

$ 5,450

$ 5,350

Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Bequests
Transfer from Burt Fund
George M and Florence G Perine
Endowment Fund income
Contributions
Transfer from Property Fund
Transfers to General Fund to
reimburse the fund for operating
expenses of Decoto Home:
Special linen purchase
Feasibility study and redevelopment
Employee in service study program
Special benefits to residents
Replacements of equipment
Special convention expenses
Transfer to Property Fund
Net increase
Balance at end of year
Note:

1974

1973

$3,490,561

$3,061,357

505,693
315,596

474,373

580
9,823
19,224

693
1,847

(8,993l
(635
(368
(10,692
(7,406)
822,822
$4,313 ,383

This reserve is credited with amounts to
be used for the benefit of the Decoto Home.

(15,000
(3 ,527
(576
(2,283
(14,493
(586
( 11,244
429,204
$3,490,561

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

273

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

STATEMENTS OF EXPENSES PAID

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

STATEMENTS OF UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE

Balance at beginning and end of· year

1974

1973

$50,000

$50,000

STATEMENTS OF COVINA ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Contributions
Transfer to General Fund to reimburse for
entertainment expenses of Covina Home
Net increase
Balance at end of year

1974

1973

$ 8,623

$ 5,037

11,952

9,513

(6,286)

(5,927)

52666

3,586

$14,289

$ 8,623

STATEMENTS OF DECOTO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

1974
Balance at beginning of year
Add (deduct):
Contributions and approved allocations
Transfer to General Fund to reimburse for
entertainment expenses of Decoto Home

$17,380

Net increase (decrease)
Balance at end of year

1973
$

922

3,467

24,049

(7,466)

(72591)

(3 2 299)

16,458

$13,381

$17,380

Decoto Home:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transportation
Allowances, et cetera, to residents
Administrative
Special expense*
Other
Covina Home:
Residents' maintenance
Hospital and medical
Farm and grounds
Plant and transportation
Camps expense
Allowances, et cetera, to residents
Administrative
Educational and special development
Other
Outside re lief
Administrative and general:
Grand Lodge services
Field investigations ·
Investment counsel fee
Office supplies and printing
Auditing services
Legal fees in connection with bequests
Pension and other payroll costs
Trustees' expenses
Securities safekeeping
Residents' preadmission costs
Grand Lodge trip to Union City
Endowment Board
Special expenses*
Other

12Z4

1273

$ 596,828
1,031, 792
42,402
224, 104
54,425
176,770
951302
2,221,623

$ 559,926
1,009,321
43 '794
208,915
58,531
154,906
15,000
202492
2,140,888

209,241
32,863
31, 571
93,862
20,772
ll,024
78,257
61,157
32,210
571,657
15,075

220,265
24,397
33 '613
97,386
22,771
17,084
87,483
53,003
26z302
582,304
18,872

83,704
17' 734
23,632
8,254
4,750
8,565
11,352
8,619
4,000
4,563
5,005
21,983
233,272
122848
451 1 281
$3 ,259' 636

77,010
17,357
23,767
6,945
6,000
6,840
10,948
9,535
4,000
11,371
4,720

* Special expenses in 1973 included a special
$15,000 linen purchase. Special expenses in
1974 include $228,872 for expenses incurred in
the current and prior years for the Decoto site
evaluation, geological, and engineering study.

l~,213

,327
22373
215 2406
$2,957,470

274

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

275

MASONIC H~ES OF CALI FORNI A
MASONIC HOMES OF CAL I FORNI A

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30, 1974

June 30, 1974

GENERAL FUND

GENERAL FUND

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares

Face

Value
100,000
250,000
100,000

too ,ooo

164,000
10,000
500,000
30 ,000
250,000
200,000
100 ,000
250,000
250 ,000

too ,ooo

100 , 000
500,000
250 ,000
150,000
100 ,000
100 ,000
250,000
100,000
100,000
20,000
100 , 000
100,000
500,000
325 ,000
200,000
80,000

Aluminum Co. of Mierlca CV, Sub. Deb . 5.25%,September 15, 1991
Mierican Tel.& Tel., 3.25%, September 15, 1984
Mier I can Tel.& Tel,.5.125%, Apri I I, 2001
Mierlcan Tel.& Tel.,5.625%, August I, 1995
Mifac Inc. CV sub. Deb., 5.25%, May I, 1994
Bank of Mierica Corp. 6.25%, October I 1978
Cabot, Cabot & Forbes, 8.5%, March 31, 1981
Castle• Cooke Inc. CV Sub. Deb., 5.375%, March 1, 1994
Chrysler Corp., 8.00%, November I, 1998
Dallas Power & light Co., 7.375%, November I, 2001
Del Monte Corp. CV Sub. Deb., 5.25% , March 1, 1994
Detroit Edison Ref. Reg., 7.50%, January 15, 2003
Evans Products Co. CV Sub. Deb., 6.25%, August 15, 1994
FMC Corp. CV Sub. Deb., 4.25%, July 15, 1992
General Tel. & Electric CV Sub. Deb., 4.00%, March 15, 1990
Goodrich , B. F., 8 .25%, November 15, 1994
Heublein Inc. CV Sub. Deb., 4.50%, May 15, 1997
Household Finance, 6.375%, January 1, 1988
New England Tel. & Tel., 8.2%, June 1, 2004
New York State Electric & Gas lst. Mtg., 7.25% April I, 1976
New York Telephone, Reg., 8.30%, August 15, 2012
Norfolk & Western Ry. Eq. Tr., 5.125%, January 1, 1976
Pan Mierican World Al r, CV Sub. Deb., 5.25%, February 15, 1989
Pennsylvania Ry. Eq. Tr. Co., 5.25%, October 1, 1975
Seaboard Air line Ry. Eq.Tr., 4.875%, March I, 1975
Seaboard Air line Ry. Eq.Tr., 4.875%, March I, 1976
Southern Pacific Eq. Tr., 7.00%, July 15, 1985
Standard Oi 1 Co. of I ndlana, Deb., 5.00%, Apri 1 l, 1996
U.S. National Bank of Oregon, 7.75%, January 15, 2002
Wells Fargo Bank, Cap. Notes, 4.50%, September 15, 1989
Kenwood-in-the-Pines Community Assoc., First Mortgage Bond
TOHL SONDS

100. 768
162,617
100,250
99,375
163 .351
9,200
500,000
27,807
25D ,000
201,250
98,250
248,000
313. 750
98,250
74,878
530,000
26o,625
133,014
101,992
100,417
252,900
99,423
100 ,000
19,926
98.395
98,641
500,000
364,500
200,000
73 ,400
I
$5. 380. 980

CONVERT! BLE PREFERRED STOCK

too

3,400
1,500

6oo
2,552

399,541
339,818
204, 190
199,974
181, 755
169,353
15,297
75,591
30,6o0
1
12,838
468,449
420 ,078
100,202
64, 719
44,291
233 ,562
92,333

American Telephone & Telegraph
Bankameri ca Corp.
Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Cabot, Cabot & Forbes Land Trust
Chase Manhattan Mtge, & Rlty. Trust
Colgate-Palmo I ive Co.
Consolidated Natural Gas Co.
Continental Oi I Co.
Corona Footh i 11 Lemon Co.
Covina I rrlgating Co.
El Paso Natural Gas Co.
Exxon, Inc..
General Electric Co.
Genera I Motors Corp.
General Telephone & Electronic Corp.
Hercules Inc.
I nternat i ona I Business Hach i nes

Kerr McGee Corp.
lee Pharmaceut i ca 1s
Mobil Oil Corp.

7,688
213,068
54,361
339,885
5,250

Monsanto to.

Morgan , J. P., Co. Inc,
Northern Mortgage Co.
Northwest Pipeline

145,377
256,930
136,336
16,800
216,222

Norton Simon

Panharyl 1e Eastern Pipe Ii ne Co.
Penney, J.C. , Co. I nc.

Ramona Savings & Loan Association
Ralston Purina Co.
Royal Hotels Inc,
Seaboard Coast 1 i ne Inds. Inc.
Sears, Roebuck & Co.

I

339,684
335,596
90, 792
454,454
399
373,957
342,277
52,346
141,009
140,619
149

Southern Natural Resources, Inc.

Southern Pacific Co,
Southern Rea I ty Co.
Sperry Rand Corp,
Standard Oil Co. of California
Syntex Corp.
Union Carbide Corp.
Warner Lambert Co.

Wi ckenden Co.
Various stocks of undetermt ned va 1ues,

Number of
Shares
2,400
900
830
2,450

7,586
10,202
6,800
9, 761
4,518
10,800
400
2,092
1,020
30
532
6,425
9,230
1,368
1,596
1,300
830
t ,400
500
4,000
900
9,500
1, 750
53
3,589
7,200
2,747
21
5,000
10
6,915
3,425
2, 792
10,510 ·
253
7,500
II ,406
1,000
3,080
4,526
85

carried at nominal value

American Metal Climax, $5.25, CV PFD
Mierican Water Works, 4.1%,CV PFD
Atlantic Richfield, $2.80, CV PFD
Diamond Shamrock Corp., $2.00, CV PFD
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical, 4.125%, CV PFD
Newnont Mining Corp., $4.50, CV PFD
RCA Corp., $4.00, CV PFD
Reynolds Metals, 4.50%,CV PFD
Sun Oi 1 Co., $2.25, CV PFD
TOTAL CONVERT! BLE PREFERRED STOCK

225 ,356
28, 181
53,749
89, 194
10,327
300,352
148,672
57. 798
133,73)
$1,047,362

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

$6, 715. 795

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALI FORNI A

I NVESTHENTS

I NVESTHENTS

JUNE 30, 1974

dune 30, 19]4

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND

277

CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

Face

Value
400 ,000
200,000
500,000
100 ,000
100,000
326,000
500 ,000
150,000
150,000
100 ,000
100 ,000
250 ,000
100,000
250 ,000
6,000
500 , 000
700 ,000
400,000
150 ,000
37 , 500
250 ,000
250 ,000
499, 100
200 ,000
100 , 000
330 ,000
1,000,000
250 ,000
500,000
250 ,000
100 ,000
300 ,000
200,000
250 ,000
100,000
500 ,000
200,000
250 ,000
100 ,000
130 ,000
500,000
100 ,ooo
300,000
500 ,000
200,000
100,000
500,000
100,000
500,000
75,000
9,000
200 ,000
500,000
13,000
500,000
100 ,000

Aluminum Co. of !'lnerica CV Deb. 5 . 25%, September 15, 1991
$ 386,250
Nnerace Corp. CV Sub. Deb. 5%, September I, 1992
207 , 500
!'lnerican Airlines Inc. Sub. Deb. CV 4.25%, July 1, 1992
462 , 500
l'lnerican Telephone & Telegraph Co. 5.125%, Apri 1 I , 2001
100 . 250
American Telephone & Telegraph Co. 5.625%, August I , 1995
99, 375
Amfac Inc. CV Sub. Deb. 5.25%, May 1 , 1994
325 ' 780
Bank of Cal lfornia Nat' 1 Assn . CV Deb , 6.5%, September 15, 1996
500,000
Burlington Northern Deb. 8.5%, Hay I, 1996
150 , 000
Castle & Cooke Inc. CV Sub. Deb. 5.375%, March 1, 1994
146 , 000
Chesapeake & Oh io Ry. Eq. Tr. 9% , June 1, 1978
101,395
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Eq. Tr. 9.125%, June I, 1980
100, 169
Chesapeake & Ohio Ry . Eq. Tr. 7. 75%, August 1, 1977
257,088
Chicago Burl. Quincy Ry. Eq. Tr. 4.875%, September 15, 1976
98 , 588
Chrysler Corp. 8%, Novem·ber 1, 1998
250,000
Consol i dated Edison Co. 1st . Reg. 7. 90%, Apri 1 1, 1999
6 , 015
Crocker Nat' 1. Corp. CV Sub. Deb. 5. 75%, May 15, 1996
500,000
Dal las Power & Light Co. Notes 7.375%, November 1, 2001
704,375
Del Monte Corp. CV Sub. 5.25%, March 1, 1994
378. 560
Detroit Ed i son Reg. Mtg , 7.50%, January 15 , 2003
152,000
Dil llngham Corp. CV Sub. Deb. 9. 75%, April 1, 1999
60,000
Dow Chemical Co. 7 . 40%, July 15 , 2002
250,000
Evans Products Co. CV Sub. Deb, 6.25%, August 15, 1994
313,750
Farmers Home Administratio n USDA 7.10%, January 4, 1982
499 , 100
Florida Power & Li gM Co. 1st Mtg . 4 . 375%, December 1, 1986
179 , 000
FMC Corp. CV Sub. Deb. 4.25%, July 15, 1992
109,500
General Tel. & Electric CV Sub. Deb. 4%, March 15, 1990
302 , 135
Gulf Oil Corp . Notes, 6.5%, June 1, 1976
1,000 , 000
Heuble i n Inc. CV Sub. Deb. 4.5%, Hay 15, 1997
260. 625
Hilton Hotels Corp. CV Sub. Deb. 5.5%, January 1, 1995
505 , 000
Household Fi nance 6 . 375%, January 1, 1988
227,862
Kansas Gas & Electric Co., 1st Mtg. 3.375%, February 1, 1986
77. 750
New England Tel. & Tel., Deb. 8.2%, June 1, 2004
300 , 000
New Yo r k State Electr ic & Gas Co. 1st. Mtg. 7.25%, Aprll 1, 1976
200 , 834
New York Telephone 8.30%, August 15, 2012
252 , 900
Norfolk & Western Ry. Eq. Tr . 5.125%, January 1, 1977
99 . 787
Norfol k & We s tern Ry. Eq. Tr . 7%, August 1, 1979
·
502,675
Norfolk & Western Ry. Eq. Tr. 7%, February 1, 1978
202, 748
Pacif i c Gas & Electric 3.125%, December 1, 1984
156,650
Pan Nnerican World Air CV Sub. Deb. 5.25%, February 15, 1989
100 , 000
Pennsylvania Ry. Co. Eq. Tr. 5.25%, October 1, 1975
129 , 516
Phi ladeiphia Electric Co. , 1st. Ref. 8%, August 15 , i975
505 , 000
Public Serv i ce Electric & Gas Co., 1st. Ref. 4.375%,
November 1 , 1986
89 , 250
Sears , Roebuck & Co . 8.625%, October 1, 1995
319, 125
So. Bell Telephone & Telegraph 7.625 %, March 15, 2013
505 ,000
So. Pacific Co. Eq. Tr. 8%, November 1, 1977
207 , 892
So. Pacific Co . Eq . Tr. 8 . 75%, Apr i l 1, 1979
100,026
So. Ra i lway Eq. Tr. #3 7.25%, Hay 15, 1984
500,002
So. Ra 1 lway Eq. Tr. 9%, June 1, 1976
101 , 139
So, Railway Eq. Tr. 7%, July 15, 1979
500,000
Standard Oil Co. of Ind i ana CV Sub. Deb. 5%, April 1, 1996
85 , 500
Tennessee Valley Author i ty 7.35%, April 1, 1998
8, 786
Toledo Edison Co. 1st. Mtg. 6 . 125%, Augu s t I, 1997
202,095
Trans1«>rld Airlines 5%, January 1, 1994
465. 125
Twelve Federal Land Banks 8.375%, January 20, 1975
13,423
Union Paci fi c Ry. Eq. Tr. rt, , March 1, 1983
490,650
Wells Fargo Bank Cap. Notes 4.5%, September 15, 1989
88,500
TOTAL BONDS

$14,837. 190

Number of
Shares

2 , 100
600
600
4 , 050
1, 700
3. 100
1, 500
1,400
2,052

!'lnerican Metal Climax , $5.25 CV PFD
American Water Works Co., 4.1% CV PFD
Atlantic Richfield, $2.80 CV PFD
Diamond Shamrock Corp. , $2 . 00 CV PFD
Kaise r Alum i num & Chemical, 4.125% CV PFD
Newmont Hi nl ng Corp., $4.50 CV PFD
RCA Corp ., $4.00 CV PFD
Reynolds .Metals, $4.50 CV PFD
Sun Oil Co . , $2.25 CV PFD

188, 146
18,812
44, 105
166 , 110
157,427
320 ,324
148,998
144,603
110. 774

TOTAL CONVER Tl BLE PREFERRED STOCK
COl'IHON STOCK
Number of

Shares

6, 166
5 ,318
5 , 900
21, 714
6,018
19 , 200
3, 759
14,980
5,800
6, 155
15 ,050
7 , 430
9, 737
2,806
8 , 700
2,257
9,900
3 , 500
9, 100
3,600
580
16,913
16 , 250
11, 200
15,000
12,611
4,345
5,200
14 , 100

4
6,500
8 , 270
5,000
2,000
17 , 000
12,074
25 ,000

Nnerican Tel.

&

332 , 995
132,818
146, 743
492 , 214
254,702
271, 148
142,6 15
602,512
138,951
452,994
990 ,562
305 ,822
740 , 152
117,612
297, 745
588 , 180
601,398
158,903
546,365
123,602

Tel. Co .

Bankameri ca Corp.

Bethlehem Steel Corp .
Cabot, Cabot. & Forbes Land Trust
Chase Manhattan Mtge . & Rlty.
Colgate-Palmo l lve Co .
Con!IDlidated Natural Gas Co .
Conti nenta 1 Oi 1 Co.
El Paso Natural G~s Co.
Exxon Corp.
Ford Motor Co.
General Electr i c Co.
Gene r a 1 Moto r s Corp.
General Telephone & Electronics Corp.
Hercules , Inc.
I nte rnat i ona 1 Business Hach i nes
Kerr McGee Corp.

Mobi 1 Oi 1 Corp .
Hon san to Co.

Morgan, J.P., Co. Inc.
Northwest Pipel i ne

634,028
575 ,841
614, 740
494,511
676,909
304 , 374
177,959
514,310
11
278,921
224, 747
251,060
25
798,406
399, 145
125

Norton Si mon Inc.

Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co.
Penney , J . C., Co. Inc.
Ralston Purina Co.
Seaboard Coast 1 i nes Industries Inc.
Sears , Roebuck & Co .
Southern Natura 1 Resources Inc.
Southern Pacific Co.

Southern Rea 1ty Co.
Sperry Rand Corp.
.
.
Standard Oil Co . of Cal1forn1a
Syntex Corp.
Transierra Explorat i on Corp.
Un i on Carbide Corp.
Warne r Lambert Co .
Western Empire Petroleum Co.

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

$13,383, 145

278

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENTS

INVESTMENTS

June 30,

1974

June 30,

JOHN AND LENA LUCKENBACH FUND

279

1974

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FUND (Continued)

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares

300
200
100
300
200
331
500

Cost

Face Value
Chase Manhattan Mtge. s. R1ty.
General Electric Co.
Genera I Motors Corp.
Morgan 1 J. P. , Co. I nc.
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co.
Seaboard Coastline Industries Inc.
Sperry Rand, Corp.

8,892
8,375
7 ,311
11 ,525
7,048
17,663
20,437
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

81,251

20,000
25,000

General Tel. s. Electronics CV Sub. Deb. 4%, March
Pennsylvania Ry. Eq. Tr. 5.25%, October 1, 1975

15, 1990

15,210
24,907
58,672

TOTAL BONDS
CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK
Number of
Shares

200

$2.80 CV PFD

11,564

TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

11 ,564

Atlantic Richfield Co.

GEORGE F. AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM SCHOLARSHIP FU.ND
COMMON STOCK
COMMON STOCK

Number of
Shares

300
100
200
237

50
50

Chase Manhattan Mtge. s. Rlty.
:;eneral Motors Corp.
Penney, J.C., Co. Inc.
Seaboard Coastline Industries
Southern Pacific Co.
Standard Oil of California

8,892
7.336
15,049
8,06o
2, 158
I 486
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

42,981

Number of
Shares

200
200
500
250
400

200
63
6oO

50
200
53

GEORGE M. AND FLORENCE G. PERI NE ENDOWMENT FUND
COMMON STOCK

400

100
400

Number of
Shares

85
121

Continental Oil Co.
Seaboard Coast 1 i ne Industries

6,033
5,933
11, 146
16,371
16, 770
14,582
20, 125
37 ,317

Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Chase Manhattan Mtge. S. Rlty.
El Paso Natural Gas Co.
Exxon Corp.
General Electric Co.
General Motors Corp.
International Business Machines
Kefr McGee Corp.
Northwest Pipeline
Panhandle Eastern Pl pe 1 i ne Co.
Penney, J.C., Co.
Southern Paci fie Co.
Standard Oi 1 Co. of California
Warner Lambert Pharmaceutical

6,396
4,010
16,523
2,972
9. 133
167.311

TOTAL CC»IMON STOCK

3,406

4,831
TOTAL CC»IMON STOCK

STUDENT Al D FUND

8,237

HARR I ET C. WADLEIGH ENDOWMENT ANNUITY FUND
Face Value
COMMON STOCK

50,000
25,000

Number of
Shares

General Tel. s. Electronics CV Sub. Deb. 4%, March
Pennsylvania Ry. Eq. Tr. 5.25%, October 1, 1975
TOTAL BONDS

30

Southern Pacific Co.

15, 1990

37 ,875
24,907
62,782

1,298
CONVER Tl BLE PREFERRED STOCK
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

1,298
Number of
Shares

EDMUND CLEMENT ATKINSON FUND

500
200
Face Value

$

20,000

Cost
Castle S. Cooke Inc. CV Sub Deb.

5.375%, March I, 1994

18,555

Amer I can Water Works Co. Inc. 4.1%, CV PFD
Atlantic Richfield $2.80 CV PFD
TOTAL CONVERT! BLE PREFERRED STOCK

15,676
11 564
27. 240

280

281

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
June 30, 1974
INVESTMENTS
STUDENT AID FUND (Continued)
June 30, 1974
COMMON STOCK
MINN IE E. PETERSON TRUST FUND (Continued)
Number of
Shares
76
636
1,24o
900
550
200

COMMON STOCK

Bankamerica Corp.
Chase Manhattan Mtge, & Rlty.
Continental Oil Co,
Kerr McGee Corp,
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline
Standard Oil Co, of California

2,570
35,000
50,266
55,976
18,855

Number of
Shares
70

2,811

Continental Qi 1 Co,
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

5.944
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

2,811

168,611
LEROY G. BROWN FUND
COMMON STOCK

ALI DA 0, MESERVE FUND
Number of
Sha res
Face Va 1ue
25,000
20,000

Kansas Gas & Electric Co. 1st Mtge, 3.375%, February I, 1986
Wells Fargo Bank Cap. Notes, 4.5%, September 15, 1989
TOTAL BONDS

19,438
18,350

62
1, 700
52

TOTAL COMMON STOCK

37.788

66,893

WALTER W, AND MAUDE S. SCHULTZ SCHOLARSHIP FUND

CONVER Tl BLE PREFERRED STOCK
Number of
Shares
200

3,255
61,597
2 041

American Tel. & Tel,
Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co.
Standard Qi I Co, of California

COMMON STOCK

Atlantic Richfield Co. $2.80 CV PFD
TOTAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

11 ,564

Number of
Shares

11,564

950

34,422

Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Co.
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

34,422

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares

FREDERICK E. AND FRIEDA E. SOMMERS SCHOLARSHIP FUND
CONVERT! BLE PREFERRED STOCK

573
121
250

Chase Manhattan Mtge. & Rlty.
Seaboard Coast 1 i ne Industries
Standard Oil Co. of California
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

23,893
4,831
7,429

Number of
Shares

36, 153

500

Sun Qi I Co., $2. 25 CV PFD
TOTAL CONVER Tl BLE PREFERRED STOCK

MINNIE E, PETERSON TRUST FUND

ll!!.!12.
Face Value
10,000

Amfac Inc, CV Sub, Deb, 5.25%, May 1, 1994
TOTAL BONDS

9, 763
9.763

25 ,637
25' 637

282

283

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MEMORIAL TEMPLE AUDIT

..,

~
~

To the Board of Trustees
California Masonic Memorial Temple

~

!!;'

..,

~

..-o

..,
..,"'

r--

,_=

~

-~
~ ..,
r--

;;;-

"''""' .,.·
"""'
~ ..,
"'
~

a)

"~

"'"'

"'"'

i~U :i j
...
~u ~i j

~

"'.....;
"'~

"'"" ~

~

0

'8,

t'-

........

"'

~

,_=

r--

..:;tC()

.;.,.

..,

N

....

~

We, or the predecessor firm, have examined the statements

"'"'u
z

of assets, liabilities and fund balances of California Masonic

.."'

"c

ii!

.....

circumstances.
In our opinion, the financial statements identified above

......

... "'

~

:J (J >
co~"
cd.O c ....

G>

G:I

r-i .... GS QI
«I Mr-1 U

"'0

C>-'

r..

.:!

3u

-~

arising from cash transactions, and the revenues collected and
expenditures paid by it for the years then ended, on a basis

.,

consistent with that of the preceding year.

";'j

"'u

~

OS

~
r..

"'
..,~ ~ i::i
;:j

Certified Public Accountants

.

~

0

~

August 13, 1974

.

0

0

u

z

"'

t'-~C\I

~

~
0

~

"'

"'

0

,_=

..,

...

~

u

"""
0 ""
c
"'"'c ......
.....
".O

0

• ".0
"
u...<
~;t

..... c

~~8

; 1; j j
~

"'
o'

!!;'

~

"'

r--

"'

~ !"' 1~ ~ ~
~

ill
.;;

~

"'"'"'

r-0

,_=

~

"'...

.

"

.
. •
,,_
"

""'..,"'
'>"'

;:j

H

.-,.-.o

"'

:l0

c..,

~5 5

....

r--

.
. "'...
....~

O<XlN

.i'~..::t

r--

"...."

~

~
., ..,"' 0
;! ui' ..,
...
., 3"
""' .,.."' ..,
:::.., ...
0

N'

r--

~

"' "'
..,..,
·-~ "'

~

"'"' "'

"' :::: ...

i::l
z

r--"'"'

"'r--

8

r--

"'"'<i.
.-,.-.o ...
~O\\D

..::t~O.:r

"'

"'· 0

"'~ "'el "'c
0

r--

..,N'"'

r--

..~ ~ "'"'...

...,_="'

0
0

...< bOC
~ C...<

c

••.-tdl

..,

present fairly the assets, liabilities and fund balances of
California Masonic Memorial Temple at June 30, 1974 and 1973,

"'0"

5~

C+'

~ ~&\

.o~~~

.

0
111.0
M lll<Z

.,
""

""""
""
"'c""
"'"
.,.,,o .,,o
" .. c.
"'" •.O"
c.
>.
""> ..........
"
0 "u
c c" "'"
• .c
0
..... ....
"". ""
.......

••D M

:J+>GJO.

other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the

"" c

c" .. .,,"

Ill ci:I

r..

EC: 2

.. 0 Id

•• )(.0

accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such

........

"u""

.,.. u...<

....

2l0

"'3 .. ~
Ol>.0
""
c "

. ....
.... ......
• ., ..
""
"'3

p.~ 0

....!l"'.,
:s

..

accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and

.

•">.
~ .. "
.,, ...

""0
o"" .,...
C•

"
~
""g
.." 0u"
"'el
t:
c
""
::::
""
"';:j.., •• co "'""'
C.,..."tl
>.
'"
"
"o+>
.,... ""
...... ....
u

Our examinations were made in

;;;-

;;;-

...~

and the related statements of revenues collected and expenditures
paid for the years then ended.

...........,,

;'j

Memorial Temple, a nonprofit corporation, at June 30, 1974 and 1973

c

....

""
....
c
.,""'... ~
""'
•"
•
a
"
~
""' -i:' "c
""'
"'
"' •
"''""'
"
" ,., ::,
...." f}.;;
"'5::,c
.,
;: '"'
5
.,,,_ ~..:.:. 5-;
.., c
~ ....... ..........

3
....
.!'I

!:! .... ..;
c.

II .
..
0

..."'3

""'....
~

:J

G>"Or-i

...

""u ...........
cr--o ":~i~~~
>..;- ~::..~
"" .!l" .s""'"'

....•.C

". ...

cu
c'5

"'

u

0

""c.
"'"

. "'

!:
....

""c.
0
""
"
.c
...."
0

$

.!'I

§"

;;:, ...3
2l0 ....•

c"
~ "
.... "
"
"c"
....
"c. "0c. !l...0

. ..

.... . "
u
u

..,"

:.l

:2

"'"

>
"' 5

.

"
"'" "'

"'...c
"
~
~

"'"
~
""
"'
"'5
~

...".
>.

H.C

.OU

j

...."""

c"
......
c
c"
••
......"

".. .
....

"

"
..........
O...<

i!iii......
c..C

~

....

. ....

u ..

() 0

""

.c ..

""'

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE

N
00

STATDIENTS OF REVENUES COLLECTED AND EXPENDITURES PAID

.j:>.

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

:::ntL
Revenues collected:
Rent and other charges to public
Rent of garage
Rent of apace to Grand Lodge

Rent of other real estate

Expend 1 tu res paid:
Sala ries and payroll expense
Utilities and services
Maintenance
Insurance
Property taxes
Depreciation
Legal and accounting
Office supplies, printing, and postage
Management and rental fees
Miscellaneous

Total

TemEle Build tng

Other Pro2erties

::::rnL

::::rm:::

---

~

-2hlli.

339,308

277,275

62,631

56,475

76,604
41,446

I~:g?§

7,567
11,173
1,338
14,450
36,159

7,408
15, 767
1,167
14,253
36,954

784
4,036

706
3, 719

:::::TI1L

_____lj1L_

--1.m_

$210,425
102,383
26,500
~

$160,443
92,832
24,000
----2§..lli

$210' 425
102,383
26,500

$160,443
92,832

----

401,939

333, 750

76,604
49,013
22, 728
5,646
101,152
166,189
1,575
2,259
4,036
_____.hQ2I

78,005
45,486
20,800
5,283
103,506
172,677
7,075
2,160
3, 719
------'±iQQ§

_____.hQ2I

____.!!..,_QQ§_

~

---

....llii1!l

~

---

..J§b.ili

__.Ihl.QI

~

(30,360)

(108,967)

(17,484)

(85,468)

(12,876)

(23,499)

272
3,281
(2,565)

263
3,281
(9,013l
__ill,2QQ

24,000

l~:j6§

~,033

,116
89, 253
135, 723

86, 702
130,030
1,575
1,475

r:m

"C

:it'

Q

-z~
0

(/J

~
'"3

Other 1.ncom.e (expense):

Interest earned:
Savings
Bonds

Interest expense
Spec lal feasibility study (Note 3)

----

Excess of expenditures paid
over revenues collected

---2!ill

~)

(~)

(~)

272
3,281
(2,565)

263
3,281
(9,013l
__ill,2QQ

---2!ill

~)

(~}

(~)

----

'ffi
-----

-----

(~)

(~)

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the f1.nanctal statements.

f-'

ll>
(/l

,_.,
CJ)

0
f-'
f-'

0 o' ll> H
::i Cl) c+ ::i
.0
<
c+cnro
;:>'Cl) 0 (/l

ro m m c+

c+ c+ El
Cl)
p,
Pl ll> Pl ::i
c+.., ::i c+
Cl) Cl) p, (/l
"'1 0 (/)I-'Cl) Pl Cl) ::i
()

..,

()

ro.., c rn
,...,....., Cl)
< Cl) ,... ()
ro P.c+C
p,
ll> Cl) ....
c+ rn c+

,.....,

....

Pl .., Cl)
'O ro rn
'O ()
.., Cl) 'O
0,... c
)< < ..,
.... Cl) ()
El p, ::>'
Pl
c+ O" rn
Cl)'<; Cl)
p,
El OQ

"'

.., ,_.,..,
I»,...!»

,... c+ <ll
Cl)
c+ 0 ()
.., ll>
<
ll>
f-'
Cl)
c
Cl)
p,

..,..,,...

H
::i
<
Cl)
(/l

c+

El
Cl)

::i
c+
(/l

tJj

!:"'

.., o'H)P.C/l u>: ro P> ,_.,ro f-'c+n r-<
roo>-;roll>C::> 'X;:l0.0>-"::>'0 ll>
c+ 0 0 'O f-' .... >-"'O p,.., c < Cl) (/l ::i
ro .... n ro
,..ro
c+P.
..,
Cl)
P,;:l';:l"iC/l'OC/l C/l
v
ro<;c+C"lOt-'·
CllroOE!
c+ll>
E!ll>::>'>-""i;:l roro'Ocroo>-; ;:lo'
rof-'roll>
CJtl)<
ll>;:l;:lH)PlP.C
::i c
c+.., (/l c+.: .... p, c+
.... v ....
c+CD o't-'-CD,. CD ::;:rl-'1
,. U1@1
1----'
ooc+
::iroIDll>
o:YroP.
t-'•P>O;:lt-'•ll>P .;:l
;:ll\l
c+)<t-'•
rn ::i ;.;"i ::i
o P. O'<: 1 n ::i
p, rn ll> ro p, c+'O ,_.,
ro f-' ro oq
,.,.
'O El
::>' ll>
f-''<: Pl >-"'O rn
;:l c+ ll> 'O Cl) Cl) Cl) t-'· ll> t-'• Cl) "i ;:l c+v
<>::>';:lf-';:l.0
p,
CJQs»rnro
f-'(1) P.>-"c+C C • El ::>'"i
H)ll>
C
Ov ,...Cl)
,...c+rnH)E!O;: l
P,'Oc+Pl
'Orn
;:lt-'·
oro"iP.
Cl) "i ::>'o'c+E! H)~O ;:l H)>-; c+
P.Orof-'::>'Cl)C (l)"iOQO
;:l'f-'(1)
()
Cl)Cl);:lf-';:l
"il-30ll>.0
,...rop,
c+
ro::iro
rop,::ic
;:l(l)>-"c+C"l
f-'>:P>,OH)E!
p,,..
P,H);:l'O ll> >-"ll> c+C C'O ov 'O
,...CJlH)Cl)OO> -;<;f-'Ct-'•"if-'<
E!
::i
Cl) .., c+ Cl) Cl) (/l .., 'O ::i Cl) Cl) ll> Cl)
OH)>-;ro
rn
roE!>-"
..,..,;:i
Cl) c+
ro rn o'
o>-;roc+P><>
0

,..,..a..,

~ ~ ~ 0 g,~ g, ,_., ~ ~ ~ ~- ~ p, ll>

,...

ll> Cl) • ::i f-' c+ Cl) ..,
Cl),.,.
rn
ID Pl c+ c+
CJtl P. >-"'O ro
ll>o'
<>Pl::>'E!O
rn>-"E!"i
f-'Cl)Cl)Of-'Cl)ll>;:l'~
;:llD(l)O

Cl)~~§ ~·f-'"Q~ ~-~OQ ;;~~

oroscroP>>-;C Jtl;:lP.P>P.ll>" i
..,ro,...f-'P.;:l
roe+
::i
c+,...
::i::iP>• p,;:ip,rof-'P.c roro
rn p, p,
v ll>
::i 0
ID c+
Cl)
::i c+ Cl)
c+ c+ ll>
,_., 0 ll>
Cl) Cl) p, 0
c 0 ::i '<
() Cl)
c+ p,
c ::i c+
::i
Cl)
f-'
ro ID

..,

..,
(/l

ll>
::i
p,

tJj

,.,.
f-'
p,
....
::i

c

rn
ll>
::i
p,

M

,.,.

c

El
Cl)
::i
c+

ll> ll> () "3
.., .., ll> ::>'
CD Cl) rn CD
::>' ,_.,
Cl) Cl) o' ,.,.
() () ll> ::i
0 0 (/l ll>
.., .., .... ::i
P,P,C/l ()
Cl) Cl)
P,P,O ll>
,_., f-'
.: ll>
:Yc+Pl rn
Cl)
() c+
::i c+ () ll>
::>' 0 c+
'O Cl) c Cl)
::i El
Pl
,.,. c+ c+ Cl)
p, ,.,. ,... ::i
El ::i c+
TD CJQ rn

.., ..,

,.,.

0
,_.,

..,ll>

Q(l)
.., Cl)
Cl) ::i 'O
() Cl) ..,
Cl).., Cl)
1-'·Pl rn
'O f-' Cl)
c+ f-' ::i
'<: c+
Pl v Cl)
p,
::i
p, ..,
Cl) 0
Cl)< ::i
)< Cl)
'O ::i c+
Cl) c ::>'
::i (1) Cl)
C/l rn
Cl)
rn

ll>

,.,.

(/l

(/l

0
,_.,

:»

()
()

0
c
::i
c+

,...
::i

~

i..,
ll>

(/l

.. 1-3
::>'
Cl)

El

,_.,

0

0

:»
()

~-

0
c
::i
c+

..,Cl)
'O
0

..,

c+
Pl
::i
c+
Pl

()
()

0
c
::i
c+

,.,.

::i
oq
'O
0
f-'

,...
,...

0

:»

()

,.,.
::i

"d
0
f-'

,...

o;z:·
0

"3

"-<
c
::i
Cl)

VJ
0
v

,...

f-'

(/l

\D
--.J

()

Cl)

~

ll>
::i
p,

0

"3

H

CJ)

0

"OJ
H

z
:»
z
0
H

:»

I:"'

CJ)

1-3

f-'

\D
--.J

M

1-3

z

:»
~

:»
CJ)
0

z

H
0

~
~

0

~

H

:»

~

z

"3
M

()

Cl)

"3

..,Cl)ID

~

I:"'

M

(/l

"OJ

M

:»

VJ

!:"'

H

CJ)

~

"d

0

~
z
0

5
8
tTl
0

'T1

n

~

~

0

:it'

z

;;

frj

rn

i..,
ll>

,...

N
(1)

p,

N

00
Vo

286

287

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC
MEMORIAL TEMPLE
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1974 and 1973

CALIFORNIA MASONIC
MEMORIAL TEMPLE
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1974 and 1973

3 - Special Feasibility Study

Federal and State Income Taxes

A special feasibility study authorized at the 1971
annual communication was completed at a total cost of $54,500.
Of this amount, $39,500 was charged to expense in the year ended
June 30, 1973 and $15,000, which is recoverable if the same
architect is engaged for continuance of the project, is carried
on the balance sheet as a deposit.

The Temple is exempt from Federal and state
income taxes.
Pension Plan
The Temple contributes to the California Masonic
Retirement Plan for the benefit of substantially
all full-time employees. Total pension expense
was $1,200 in 1974 and 1973. All prior and
current service costs have been funded. Assets
held by the Fund at December ,31, 1973 were in
excess of vested benefits.

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
INVESTMENTS

2 - Contributions Received

June 30, 1974

Contributions received from The Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California and
individuals are summarized below:
1974
Contributions from initiates - at
$9 each:
Received from initiates of the
prior year
Received from initiates of the
current year
Less refunds and adjustments

Individual contributions and bequest
and interest earned

Allocated to Library and Museum
Building Fund
Allocated to General Fund

~
Face Value

1973

$ 7,335

$ 7,029

27,7ll
(102)

28,620
(1J4)

34,944

35,515

111~4

2,108

36,138

37 ,623

~24

21~

$35,614

$37,404

$

75 ,000

Public Service Electric & Gas, 1st.&. Ref.,
4. 375%, November I , 1986

67 ,475

TOTAL BONOS

67,475

!I>

0

s::
~

Ho

c+

:::>'

"'c+

Cl)

I-'

'd

w
w

>;

Cl)
()
Cl)

I-'

\D

0.

....

--.;i

.i::-

;:l
(JQ

'<
Cl)

"'

>;

'd

o'

Ho

0

>;

c+

:::>'
Cl)

'<
Cl)

"'

>;

:::>'
Cl)

;:l
Cl)

;:l

0.

Cl)

0.
w

0

;:l

"'
....
"'"'
o'

~ ~

;{
I-'

"'

"' <"'
....
Ho
0

()

>;
;:l

.... "'"'
c+

(")

I-'

'<

"'c+

If

Ho

>;

....
"'0. s0

:::>'
c+

>;

....

I~

>;

()

Cl)

§
H
;:l

;:l

>;

Cl)

;:l

()

'"tj

0

s::
;:l

"'

w

0.

>;
I-'

'<

c+

:::>'
Cl)

0

s::

0
'd

....
;:l
....
0

c+

"'c+

0

;:l

Cl)

c+

>;

c+

;:l

()
Cl)

"'

;:l

Cl)

Cl)

0

w

()

0

I-'

\D
--.;i

Cl)
()

.i::-

c+

"'
;:l

0.

"' w

I-'

;:l

0.

\D

><

Cl)

~

"'

c+

>;

:::>'

Cl)

Ho

s::

;:l

Cl)

"'
;:l

()
Cl)

()

s::"'

()

:::>'
c+
Cl)

c+

:::>'
Cl)

"'

()
()

0

s::

Cl)

>;

"'
"'

I-'
I-'

'<
()
()
Cl)

0.

oq

.... "'

c+

;:l

oq

"'
....
0.

Cl)
()
Cl)

;:l

c+

;:l

"'
"'"'

;:l

>;

c+

....Ho
....

'<

>;
Cl)
()

0

>;
0.

"'
....
;:l
;:l

c+

"'
"'

;:l

0.

>;
0.

"'

w

0.

"'

"' "'
Cl)

;:l

"'
"'c+ "'"'c+c+
:::>'

Cl)

a

Cl)

;:l

Cl)

0.
Cl)

>;

0

Ho

....
c+

s::

>;
Cl)

"'
()

0

I-'
I-'
Cl)
()

c+

c+
"'
....
0
;:l

w

"'

c+

c..,

s::;:l
Cl)

w
0

;:l

"':i;:

0.

w

"'

I-'

Cl)

;:l

0.

Cl)

s

0.

0.

Cl)

Cl)

><

'd
Cl)

;:l

0.

....;:l ....c+
s::
>;

0

"' "'

o'

........

t-'·8

~
;:
l:l..
l:l..

;:l

() >;

'"tjm

>;
Cl)

"'"'0

""'"
....;:s "Tl
0

"'

"'0
0 Ho

s::

0 c+

;:l

Cl)

0."'

"'....
0

;:l

Q

3
;:s

>;

("")

Ho
....
>;

\D
--.;i

.i::-

()
Cl)

w

"'0

:::>'

Ho

~
Cl)

(")

Cl)

Q

>;

;:l
....

"' "':.::

;:l

0.

I-'

\D

..."" Cj0

--.;i

w

;:l

....
()

..,"";:s
""

Q

><

~

;i•

c+·

c+

Cl

en

~

;J
t'I1

>

z

""''-" >

Cl)

Cj
~

"'
s

""'~"

c+
Cl)

Cl)

ti

Q

0.

ID

-z

"" ""'~"
~ 0

:::>'

Cl)

z~

.,,::i::i
R
gJ

~

Cl)

"'

"Tl

;:s

"'"' "'c+

0

(i

~

"'Ho ....~
....
0
;:l

I-'

>

-

c+

"' a
"'

I-'

~

""
::i:::
..."" s::
>
"";i" rJ1
0
...

s:: Cl)

;:l

Cl)

>;

Ho

0.

>;
:.:: 0.

Cl)

Cl)
()
Cl)

;:l

>
~

"'"'

c+

:::>'

0.

s::

Cl)

0

>;

;:l

'd
0
>;

Cl)

0.

"'
0

>;

:i;:
w

"'

"'

(i

to

.... 0

'd

0

<
Cl)
;:l
s::Cl)

>;
;:l

Cl)

()

>;

0

....
"'o'
....
I-'
....
c+
....

c+

Ho

0.

"'c+
....
0

;:l

'd

;:l

Cl)

;:l

Ho:::>'
0 Cl)

w

I-'

00
00

t-1• c+

Cl)

w

c+

0

;:l

0.

;:l

N

"'0

I-'

c+

0.

"' "'

"'

Cl)

I-'

Cl)

c+
~
....
....
;:l
;:l

;:l

0

:::>'

"'
.... ><
s::0.

c+

>;
Cl)

c+

Cl)

Cl)

c+

Ho

0.

:::>'

'd

0.

Cl)

I-'

>;

Cl)
()

Cl)

"'
....
:i;:
;:l
0.
....
....
"'
c+
....
;:l
oq
c+
:::>'
Cl)

:i;:
....
....
;:l
c+

"' "'"'c+
"'"':i;: 0Ho

>;

o'

'<

Cl)

Ho

Cl)

--.;i

Cl)

'd

:::>'

()
Cl)

Cl)

s::

"' "'c+
0.

oq
I-'

Ho

(") 8

0

;:l

c+

0

;:l

....
"'0.

s::

>;

0.

>;

Cl)

;:l

;:l

Cl)

c+
....
"'c+

Ho

;:l

(JQ

0

0.

>;
0.

0.

>;

I-'

"'

>;
0.

0

'<
Cl)

0.

()

;:l

0

0

0.

:::>'

()
Cl)

'"tj

;:l

oq

o'

I-'

()
()

c+
I-'
....
s::0.
;:l

0

;:l

;:l

;:l

s::0.

>;

I-'

Cl)

c+

'd

"' "' ...."' "' s::
"'"'"'
....
"'
....
"'
"'
()
()

'd

;:l

Cl)

I-'
I-'

w

0

"' ...."'

c+

Cl)

:::>'

>;

c+

:::>'

()

Cl)

"' ...."' "'"'
"'
"' "' ....
< 2' .... "'
"' ....
s::
....
w
.... "'
"'
0.

"'s::

:::>'

w

;:l

;:l

c+

....
>;

'd

;:l

....
0

0.

;:l

()

"':.:: "'

;:l

Cl)

Cl)

Cl)

"' "'
"' ....0"' "'....Ho
"'c+

()

"'c+

:::>'

Cl)

c+

()

0

....
"'

c+

o'
0

;:l

c+

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
STATEMENTS OF ASSETS, LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

___l.21!!_

__l2ll_

___l.21!!_

~

General Fund:
Cash

$ 41,280

53,090

Time certificates of deposit

100,000

50,000

3,550

Due from Amaranth Fund

445,558

Note rece 1vable (Note 2)

General Fund:
Accrued Federal excise taxes (Note 1)
General 1'und balance:
Balance at beginning of year

Common stock (market value:

1974' $82, 600; 1973,
$124,413)
Total General Fund

152,250

Proceeds of sale of UCLA Clubhouse
Bequests
Memorials
Excess of revemles collected over
expenditures paid

473,970

~

$855.203

$841.868

$

Cash

1, 734

~

Loans receivable

~

$ 21,092

$ 1, 756

93,070

1974, $10,625; 1973,
$10,120)

14,471

14,471

-9.1..Z!3.
$225.866

~

The accompanying notes are an integral
part of the financial statements.

$218.510

20

Cl

::i::i

~

~

Total General Fund

~

$841.868

§

Altenburg Fund:
Fund balance:
Balance at beginning 01' year

$ 8,006

$ 7,8193

~

_.l.31

~

~

Add:

Excess of revenues collected
expenditures paid
Be.lance at end of year

Total liabilities
Fund balance:
Balance at beginning of year

93,070

40

0

$ 11,151

1974,

Note receivable (Note 4)

317,270
518, 718
2,485

840.156

~

$81,000; 1973, $88,617)

Common stock (market value:

1, 712

~

~

Marketable securities - at cost
(Note 1):
Bonds (market value:

840,156

$

~

Amaranth Fund:
Due General Fund
Amaranth Fund :
Cash

2,850

Balance at end of year

152, 250

~

Altenburg Fund:

$

Add:

Marketable securities - at cost
(Note 1):

aa$~36~~~~ei9~3;uh527rn1

-l.2.ll._

LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCES

~
~
()

;i;.

r

~

::i::i
~

L....:.._

218,510

~

;i;.

3,550
217 ,985

Add:

Funds received from Amaranth Homes
of California
Excess of revenues collected over
expenditures paid
Balance at end of year

2,928
~

~

~

~

$225.866

~

N

00

\0

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

N

~

STATEMENTS OF REVENUES COLLECTED
AND EXPENDITURES PA ID

Years Ended June 30, 1974 and 1973

General
Revenues collected:
Interest:
Certificates of deposit
Bonds

....IslllL

--1:!m!!.._

$ 4,161
· 18,450

$ 4,161
12,075

~,266
~

Savings
Notes and other

Dividends
Rental - UCLA parking lot
Gain on sale of securities
Oain on sale of furniture
Miscellaneous

Altenburg
___hM._

Amaranth

$ 78

General

1973

Altenburg

~

--121llL

Jl!nL

~

$

$ 15,101
3,075

$ 12,075

$ -

6

-

'~li

Amaranth
---1'.YnL_

$

--

--19...J.QQ

~

___il

}·6$6

78

14,651

37, 276

25, 356

137

11, 783

277

8,624
5,6oo
2,ri3
1, 13
____gz

8,~
5,

1, 13
____gz

~

...!il.!±.li

63,966

49,237

10,210

9,933

___J,_

___
1

--

---

...l!W.1L. --59..lll

~

...l!L...9..a!l

5,000

~,000

321~6g)

Educational grants
Educational grants canceled
Leadership training - De Malay
Cleft Palate Program
Scottish Rite Foundation
UCLA Clubhouse

Trustee travel
Administrative and reneral
Federal excise tax Note 1)
Excess of revenues collected
over expend iturea paid

14,050

1 1800
500)
7,500
5,000
5,000

7,500
5,000
5,000
2,127
1,237

2;127

~

~:g§6

~

_il.Q!!!.

iU.fil

~

--LZ.!l.

24' 750

2,500

2,500

8,246
2,823
1,737

8,246
2,823
1, 737

0

-

2,~83

36, 250

"'O
;:ti

242

--

---

....l.li

~

Expend 1 tu res paid:
Grants to Masonic Homes

3,026

-1...!!.l5.

3g:m

84

Q
rn

0

z

Q

11,500

Cll

0

'?1

....,

----

---

~

~

--

.J.!!..Q5Q

~

...!U...W.

...lL..2l1Q

~

--

~

~

ll:iZ_

~

~

'Ille accom.pan,y1ng notes are an integral
part or the financial statements.

w
I

!I>
t-'

c+

Cl)
;J
c'

;jl
,_,.
I'll

....,
s::
;J
0.

,_,.
I'll

s::
OI
Cl)
0.

c+
0
't:i
'1
0
<

,_,.

0.
Cl)
t-'
0
ll>
;J
I'll

c+
0
I'll

c+

s::
0.
Cl)
;J

c+

OI

~

c+;Jll>ll>tnll>
0 0....,
0 c+
c+ c+'t:i t-'

I\)

c',_,.
E!Otn
'1 "' 't:i ,_,. ;J
ll> I'll
s::
!I>

ll>
t-'
Cl)

'1 Cl)

....,
::a
Cl)

~Cl)~~°'S'

«g~~~~;jl

.

g,~g:g~g

0 ;:r. 0.
..... s::
OJ ;J ....,
0 ;J
c+ 0 >-'! ,_,. ,_,.
't:i Cl) '1 ;:rt-'<
Cl)
Cl)
ll> 0.
c+
ll> '1
'<

c::

~~;ti665.~

c+
t-'
s::
Cl)-c';J(]Q'<
Wll> 0. ll>
,_,.OJt-'ll>OJO

....,
::J.. P> c+
-.::i ;J ,_,. t-'

,_,.l\)OQ0>(1
;J0Cl);J!l>ll>
C/l • •
OI t-'
'1 Cl) ,_,.
c+
:( Cl). ....,
ll>
t-'>-'!;:J'O
0
t-' ;:r ,_,. Cl) :( '1
Cl) 0 ,_,.Cl) ;J
Cl)
;:r < '1 ,_,.
;J
• roroll>
0.
c+
I'll

sll>

0

ll>
t-'

'U

'1
0
Cl)
'1

c+

C/l

~~

'1
,_..

qi

\01-Sc+
s::roro
• Cl)
;J ll> I'll
0.00'1• 3:
...., c+'<
t-'
ll>
Cl)
\0 c'
c+"'
\DO O
OJ'< 0
0 ....,. O'I ;J
OJ
Cl),_,.
• ll> C/l 0
c+l-St-'c+O
\0 ;:r
0. OI
Cl)
.,..-.;iro o
ro o .i:=-w ,_, t-'
0. ...., OJ's::
0
:( c'
0 c+• ...., ,_,. ;:r
H.>;:J'OO c+O
Cl) 0 '1 ;:rs::
C/l
c+
0
'1"'
-ll> Cl)
s:: ll> ll> Ul
l'llt-';JU1'11l>
c+roo.oroc+
•
t-'
0 0 ll> c+
ll>

s

.....

C/l

ll>D>~Ol~;J
0
O'I

t-'

't:i
'1

I

Cl)"'>-'!

><
c+ ::r•
0 ll> Cl)
,_.. c+

C/l Cl) qi
Cl)
0
..... s::
c+ ;J ;J
~ 0 0.
0 ll>

a c+

0 Cl),_..
;J
0
c+ ;J

~a

..

"'Cl)"'
I'll
Cl)
;J
Cl) c' ><
c+ s:: Cl)

,_,. c+ a

't:i
;J ,_,. c+
< C/l
Cl)
I'll C/l '1
c+ s:: 0
c'
roe....
;J Cl) qi
c+ 0 Cl)
c+ 0.
Cl)
;J c+ '1
0 0 ll>
t-'
0

....,

s

s

,_,.

Cl)
0.
Cl)
'1

Ill

t-'

trl

><
0

,_,.

"'

Cl)

>-'!

Ill

><
Cl)
C/l

< c' ll> H
ll> Cl) c+ ;J
t-',O
<
s:: 0 Cl)
ro ro a en
"' C/l c+
Oc+c+EI
Cl)
;J
ll> ll> ;J
c+ '1 ;J c+
;:r Cl) 0."'
Cl)
0 "',_,.
0. ll> Cl) ;J
ll> '1 0
c+ '1 s:: C/l
Cl) ,_,. '1 Cl)
ro ,_,.o
'1 O.c+S::
,_,. '1
Cl)
0 ll> Cl),_,.
Cl) c+ C/l c+

s::

,_,.

,_,.

< ll> '1 Cl)
Cl)'t;j Cl) I'll
O.'t:i 0
• '1 Cl) 't:i
0 ..... s::
>< < '1
,_,.ro o
a a. ::r
ll>
ll>
c+ c' C/l
Cl)'< Cl)
0.

a aq

aCl) P> ll>

ll> ,_,.ll>
'1 ...., '1
:;- c+ Cl)

'*"°'

c+ 0 0

• +:-::>

'1 ll>
'1
'1

,_,.
Cl)
0.

H
;J
<
Cl)
C/l

c+

s

Cl)
;J

c+

"'

tJ:j

s

ll> '1
>-'!
;J Cl) 0 ;:r
a.< 0.Cl)
Cl),_..
Cl) ;J ...., ....,

>< s:: ,_,. ,_,.

't:i Cl) Cl) ;J
Cl) "' 0. ll>
;J
;J
I'll ll> 0 0
Cl) '1 ll> ,_,.
Ol <D Ol

P>

;:J't-'
ll> '1
'1 Cl) c'"'
Cl) 0 ll> c+
0 I'll ll>

,_,,_,,_..c+

<D

a. Ol <D

0 Cl)
a
0 0. 0 Cl)
. '1
...., ;J
c+
0. ll>
Cl) c+ ll> OI
0
0.
c+ 0 ll>

:t:::ro11

;:rro s:: ro
Cl)
;J
;J c+ c+'t:i
,_,. ,_,. '1
't:i
;J Cl)
ll> Cl)(]q"'
• Cl)
;J
0. 0

,_,.

s

. ....,

c+

oro
'1 Cl) 0.
Cl) ;J
0 Cl) 0
Cl) '1 ;J
,_,.ll>
't:i t-'ll>
c+ t-'
'<

.

ll>

,_,.
OI

"'0

....,
!I>
0
0
0

s::
;J

,_,.
c+

;J

t-'
'<

0 ll>
0 '1

H.>"3
0 ;:r
'1 Cl)

s:: '<
;J
c+O
,_,.....,

0

;J

qi

::ro

s::

ll>
'1 ;J
,_.. 0.
c+ ll>
ll> c+
c' ,_,.
t-'0
Cl) ;J

.

:(
Cl) ll>
0. C/l

C/l
,_..

'UO'I

0 ;J

,_,.
,_,.....,

z

(1
!I>

Q

trl

H

>
z

0
>-'!

0 ,_,.

"-<

,_,.o

s::

Cl) ll>
OI ;J

;J
Cl)

c+

w

C/l

>-'!
0

. z

Bro
ll> C/l

c+ c+

,_..ll>
0 c'
;J t-'
ll> ,_,.
t-'C/l
• ;:r
Cl)
ll> 0.
;J
0. 0
;J

H

t-'
\0

!I>

-.::i

H
!I>

+=ll>
;J
0.

t-'
\0

-.::i

w

0 "-<
"',_,.ll>

qi

0

z
(1

ti

§l

0
r
0

3:

Q

!I>
C/l

0

z
H

(1
qi

0

~z

;:ti

z

H
!I>

>-'!
!I>
>-'!

>-'!

s::

qi

C/l

C/l

Cl) ;J
;J
c+ ll>
,_.. '1
HJ'<

ti

c::

§

!I>
>-'!
H
0

z

0

rn

0

'?1

(')

-25~
~

,_,.

Ot-'
t-'
't:i.

s::

'1 t-'
't:i \0

g$
Cl)

"'

I

N
\0

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

293

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL REPORT JULY 1, 1973 TO JUNE 30, 1974
MEN RESIDENTS - AVERAGE AGE 84.59 YEARS
ADMISSIONS (1973-1974) - AVERAGE AGE 79.22 YEARS

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
June 30, 1974 and 1973

4 - Amaranth Fund
During 1972 the Foundation received $115,000 in cash
and was assigned a promissory note, secured by a deed of trust,
for $102,791 from the Amaranth Homes of California. The use of
these funds is restricted by a trust agreement with the Amaranth
Homes of California which specifies that the principal is to be
invested and that the income is to be used to provide educational
grants to women under age 21.

*Indicates admissions during current year

t Indicates couples

AGE GROUP
60 to 69 years
6
70 to 79 years
24
86
80 to 89 years
90 to 99 years 36
I 00 years_ _
!

24 couples

153

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION

Name

GENERAL FUND
INVESTMENTS
June 30. 1974

Face Value
100 ,000
50 ,000

New England Tel. & Tel, Co, Deb., 8.2%, June 1, 2004
U.S. National Bank of Oregon, 7.75%, January 15, 2002
TOTAL BONDS

102,250
50 ,000
152,250

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares
3,571
205
100
500
112

Cabot, Cabot & Forbes Land Trust

78,262
6,438
3,600
20 ,438
3 827

Seaboard Coast 1 i ne Industries
Southern Pacific Co.
Sperry Rand Corp.
Standard Oil Co. of California
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

112. 565

AMARANTH FUND

Face Value

$

100 ,000

Household Finance Co., 6.375%, January 1, 1988
TOTAL BONDS

93 ,070
93 ,070

COMMON STOCK
Number of
Shares
462

Seaboard Co•s t 1 i ne Industries

14,471
TOTAL COMMON STOCK

14,471

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Abell, Frank J. •...... Jan. 19, 1974
Allen, Milton E. . . . . . . April 15, 1969
Allison, Emil M...... April 19, 1972
Anderson, Ture I. t . . . . July 29, 1972
Arnold, Marion L. . . . . Aug. 25, 1969
Bailey, Rex E. . . . . . . . Dec.
5, 1967
Banet, Jesse E. . . . . . . . July 12, 1967
Barnes, William H. . . . July 2, 1959
Barrett, Lester G. . . . . . Sept. ll, 1971
Baxley, Charles K.t... Nov. ll, 1970
Baxter, Ben J. . . . . . . . March 16, 1972
Bayard, Joseph D. . . . . Dec. 17' 1968
Bean, V. James...... April 5, 1963
Bickel, Henry, Jr..... Aug. 18, 1972
Black, Alan S ..... , . . June 8, 1973
Boyd, Ernest E. •t . . . . May
6, 1974
Boyd, Raymond . . . . . . Nov. 22, 1971
Brack, Claude C. . . . . . Aug. 16, 1971
Brewer, Ralph R. . . . . . Dec. 17, 1970
Bunker, Homer W.... Nov. 18, 1971
Burnham, Arthur C. . . . Jan. 21, 1970
Bums, Neilt . . . . . . . . . May 24, 1971
Butler, Kenneth L. . . . . Dec. 31, 1964

East Bay ........... .489
Baldwin Park ........ 660
Nevada ............. 13
Yosemite . . . . . . . . . . . 99
Lamanda Park ....... 627
Delano ............. 309
Amity-Seal Rock ..... 370
Live Oak ............ 61
Modesto ............ 675
Plymouth ........... 560
Triangle ............ 548
La Mesa ............ 407
Redwood City ...... .168
Moneta ............ .405
San Pasqual ........ .452
Foothill ............. 564
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . 38
Center .............. 465
Security ............ 581
Burlingame .......... 400
Lakeside ............ 760
Golden State ......... 358
Park ............... 449

Delano ......... 90
San Francisco . . . 89
Oakland ........ 91
Modesto ........ 67
Oakland ........ 86
Venice ......... 70
La Mesa ........ 74
Redwood City . . . 84
Gardena ........ 86
Pasadena . . . . . . . 82
Oakland ........ 88
Santa Cruz . . . . . . 85
Fresno ......... 91
Bakersfield. . . . . 86
Burlingame. . . . . 83
Lakeside . . . . . . . 69
Los Angeles ..... 75
San Francisco . . . 87

Campbell, Charles A. t
Jan. 18, 1966
Carpenter, Frank J .... June 18, 1971
Chapman, H. Dudley .. Sept. 14, 1972
Charette, Louis A .... . Sept. 24, 1970
Clapper, Bertram W .. . Feb. 15, 1972
Clayton, H.A. t ..... . Dec. 29, 1969
Cox, Robert L ....... . Dec. 18, 1969
Creelman, Stanley M .. Dec. 17, 1970
Creider, Roy B ...... . Oct. 25, 1963
Crowe, Milton E ..... . May 19, 1972

Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
Crocker ............. 454
Hollywood .......... 355
Santa Paula .......... 291
Palms .............. 512
Glendale ............ 544
Anchor ............. 273
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . 78
San Diequito ......... 775
Oakland ............ 188

San Francisco . . . 85
Daly City . . . . . . . 93
Hollywood . . . . . . 88
Santa Paula . . . . . 90
Los Angeles . . . . . 87
Glendale . . . . . . . 75
Bellflower ...... l 00
Calaveras . . . . . . . 89
Cardiff by the Sea 93
Oakland ........ 84

Davies, Fredrick C ... . Sept.
3, 1968
June 30, 1971
Dennis, Spiliotis G ... . Sept. 13, 1968
Dierksen, William ... . Jan. IO, 1966
Dixon, Ray C ....... . Aug. 24, 1970
Dube',Joseph ....... . Oct. 14, 1969
Du Bois, Andrew B .. . April 30, 1958

Crocker ............. 454
Mountain View ...... 194
San Pasqual ........ .432
San Clemente ........ 671
Citro! .............. 656
Florence ............ 423
Morning Star . . . . . . . . 68

Daly City . . . . . . . 81
Mountain View. . 89
Pasadena . . . . . . . 81
San Clemente . . . 90
Brea ........... 80
Huntington Park. 84
Stockton ....... 91

Dean, Alfred c ...... .

Orinda ......... 88
Baldwin Park. . . . 89
Nevada City ..... 91
Merced ........ 83
Pasadena. . . . . . . 78

294
Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Dunlap, Daniel L. ....
Dzaroogian, Marsob ..

Baldwin Park ........ 660
Vallejo ............ .487

Baldwin Park. . . . 92
Vallejo ......... 77
San Bernardino . . 84

Foley, Eck ......... . July 29, 1965
Followell, Floydt .... . Dec. 17, 1971
Fothergill, Milner .... . Aug.
6, 1971
Foulkes, Caradoc .... . Sept. 24, 1968
Fox, Floyd A. t ...... . Nov.
7, 1969
Fraser, Clarence*t ... . Jan.
9, 1974
Freeman, T. Reed ... . July 15, 1965
Frush, Paul R. *t .... . Aug. 14, 1973

Phoenix ............ 178
Golden Gate
Speranza .......... 30
Paso Robles .........286
Evergreen ........... 259
Morning Star . . . . . . . . 68
Arcadia ............. 547
Mountain View ...... 194
George Washington ... 525
Argonaut-Argonne ... .461
West Los Angeles .... 373

San Francisco . . . 84
Paso Robles . . . . . 80
Riverside . . . . . . . 86
Stockton ....... 94
Arcadia ........ 84
Mountain View. . 92
San Francisco . . . 72
San Francisco . . . 86
Los Angeles . . . . . 68

Gammon, Rodger W. . . Sept.
Ghormley, James R. * . May
Given, Donald R. t . . . . Dec.
Goss, William H. . . . . . Sept.
Goyette, Frank A. . . . . May
Gregory, John A. . . . . . May
Grigg, Harry C. . . . . . . May
Guilford, Herbert I. . . . Dec .

9, 1961
20. 1974
27, 1972
2, 1971
25, 1966
26, 1970
6, 1971
26, 1968

Van Nuys .......... .450
Hollywood .......... 355
Liberty ............. 299
Hammonton ......... 433
Hollywood .......... 355
San Bernardino ....... 348
Anchor ............. 273
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . 38

Van Nuys ...... 85
Hollywood . . . . . . 79
Santa Clara. . . . . 85
Sutter .......... 91
Hollywood. . . . . . 88
San Bernardino . . 83
Bellflower . . . . . . 83
Santa Cruz . . . . . . 90

Haberdier, Oliver A. . . Sept.
Halliday, Archibald C. . Feb.
Harper, Thomas E..... Aug.
Harris, Eugene L. . . . . . May
Heam, Cecil C....... Sept.
Heberer, Charles E. •.. Dec.
Henricks, Samuel..... Nov.
Hermans, Howard S... Oct.
Hersey, Charles W.... Jan.
Hillman, Otto C. t . . . . July
Hoag, Carl B. •.. . . . . . Dec.
Holmes, George M. t . . Oct.
Humphrey, Norman E. Nov.
Hunter, William J ..... March
Hurst, Eugene H. . . . . . Sept.

25, 1965
29, 1972
24, 1971
17' 1972
26, 1972
28, 1973
19, 1972
31, 1960
4, 1972
26, 1966
9, 1973
3, 1969
12, 1972
29, 1972
25, 1972

Friendship ..........210
Palm Springs ........ 693
San Marino .......... 685
Big Bear ............ 627
Rialto .............. 582
Crocker ............. 454
Homitos ............ 98
Corona ............. 324
Sunset. ............. 352
South Pasadena ...... 367
Orland ............. 265
Fairmount ........... 435
El Centro ........... 384
Inyo ............... 221
Oriental ............ 144

San Jose ........ 90
Palm Springs . . . . 81
San Marino . . . . . 87
Big Bear Lake ... 69
Rialto .......... 81
Daly City. . . . . . . 73
Homitos ........ 90
Pasadena . . . . . . . 84
Los Angeles . . . . . 84
South Pasadena . . 87
Orland ......... 83
San Francisco . . . 86
El Centro .. .. .. . 88
Independence . . . 83
San Francisco . . . 82

Jackson, Elwell R. t . . . June 7, 1962
Jared, Henry C. . . . . . . June 27, 1973
Jensen, Barney F.t.... Sept.
2, 1971
Johnson, John R. •t . . . Sept. 10, 1973
Kanz, Joseph . . . . . . . . Dec. 22, 1972
Keaton, Milton T..... June 27, 1972
Keiser, Samuel....... Aug.
8, 1972
Keith, Frank L....... Dec. 19, 1972
Kempf, William A. . . . Dec.
l, 1961
Kitts, Lisle E. . . . . . . . . June 28, 1973

Henry Knox ......... 662
Coalinga ............ 387
Fellowship ......... .480
Damascus ........... 648

Los Angeles . . . . . 87
Coalinga. . . . . . . 76
Oakland . , . . . . . . 93
San Bernardino . . 84

Menlo Park .......... 651
Chateau Thierry ...... 569
Hollenbeck .......... 319
Harding ............ 584
Doric .............. 216
Salinas ............. 204

Menlo Park . . . . . 90
Castro Valley . . . 86
Los Angeles . . . . . 94
Los Angeles . . . . . 81
San Francisco . . . 76
Salinas ......... 88

Taft-Midway ........ 426
Consuelo ........... 325
Corona ............. 324
Larchmont .......... 624

Maricopa . . . . . . . 93
Escondido . . . . . . 82
Pasadena . . . . . . . 77
Los Angeles ..... 73

Atascadero ......... .493
Lebanon-Pacific ...... 136
Woodstock ......... .491
Menorah ............ 623
Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . 40
South Gate .......... 320
San Bernardino ....... 348
Lebanon-Pacific ...... 136

Atascadero . . . . . . 90
San Francisco ... 81
Alameda ....... 85
Los Angeles . . . . . 90
Sacramento . . . . . 79
Los Angeles . . . . . 94
San Bernardino . . 92
San Francisco . . . 87

Oct. 16, 1972
May 19, 1960
Farris, Ernest........ Nov. 10, 1971
Ferraris, Natale ...... March
3, 1965

Lepetich, Steve M. . . . . July 22, 1963
Logan, Arthur E ...... March
l, 1972
Logan, Walter A.. . . . . April 20, 1973
Loge, Joseph M. . . . . . Oct.
8, 1971
MacArthur, Wesley H. April 16, 1973
Macaulay, Donald S. . . July 15, 1971
Mahan, Thomas V .... March 12, 1973
Marshall, Henry. . . . . . Dec. 16, 1970
McClelland, Clarence. Feb. 15, 1971
McGraw, John H..... June 27, 1958
Meier, Charles A..... Aug. 30, 1971
Mendelson, Victor H. . Jan. 12, 1966

295

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

23, 1969
24, 1971
9, 1972
6, 1969
26, 1971
28, 1971
6, 1971
21, 1973

Yucca Valley ........ 802
Francis Drake ........ 376
Lorenzo ............ 709
Amity-Seal Rock ..... 370
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . 24
East Bay ........... .489
Dunsmuir ........... 297
Pasadena ............ 272

Yucca Valley .... 91
So. San Francisco 81
San Lorenzo . . . . 60
San Francisco . . . 88
Mariposa . . . . . . . 92
Orinda ......... 85
Dunsmuir . . . . . . . 88
Pasadena . . . . . . . 70

May

19, 1970

San Pasqual ........ .452

Pasadena . . . . . . . 72

Ollson, Lester E...... Aug.
Ouellette, Armand E... Oct.
Peirce, Charles A .... . May
Pettit, Obe E ........ . June
Posch, Paul H ....... . Nov.
Postle, Warren ...... . Aug.
Rae, Douglas S....... March
Riddell, Walter L. t . . . Aug.
Roberts, William. . . . . June
Rodgers, Eli M....... June
Rogers, Ellery W..... Sept.
Rogers, Francis H. . . . . Oct.

24, 1959
24, 1970

Berkeley ............ 363
Henry S. Orme ...... .458
Cahuenga ........... 513
East Gate ........... 290
Hermann ............ 127
San Pablo ........... 754

Berkeley . . . . . . . 87
Los Angeles . . . . . 87
Los Angeles . . . . 87
Los Angeles . . . . . 73
Burlingame
96
San Pablo ....... 91

East Bay ........... .489
San Pasqual ........ .452
Whittier ............ 323
Standard ............ 440
Perris ............. .411
Eycalyptus .......... 243
Oak Grove .......... 215
Magnolia ........... 242
Mosaic ............. 218
South West. ......... 283
Van Nuys ........... 450
Pasadena ............ 272
Service ............. 594
Chateau Thierry ...... 569
La Mesa ............ 407
John P. Jarman ....... 669
San Pasqual ........ .452
Roseville ........... 222
Crocker ............. 454
Live Oak ............ 61
Needles ............. 326
Brotherhood ......... 375

Orinda ......... 79
Pasadena . . . . . . . 95
Whittier . . . . . . . . 90
Oakland ........ 88
Perris .......... 84
Hayward ....... 82

Metcalfe, William H...
Jan
Miller, Eddie E....... Nov.
Miller, Floyd B....... Nov.
Miller, William G..... Feb.
Mitchell, William M ... March
Moller, Onward R. . . . . April
Morris, George E ....., Nov.
Moulton, Norman T.*. Dec.
Nelson, Charles T.t...

Samuel, Ford E. t . . . . . Jan.
Sawtelle, Sherman C. . Dec.
Schaper, Chancy O.*.. Feb.
Scott, Minor B....... April
Scrivner, Chester ..... March
Shaler, Edgar C....... Sept.
Siegert, John*t ...... March
Smith, Ralph M...... Feb.
Snobel, Herbert W .... April,
Soderer, Carroll A .... March
Sobus, Maurice 0. •t. . Aug.
Sparhawk, Festus L... Dec.
Specht, Frank M. . . . . . May
Stites, Joseph A. . . . . . Sept.
Swanson, George N ... March
Sword, Walter C ... , . . Feb.

28, 1968
23, 1967
18, 1965
4, 1972
23, 1972
23, 1971
l, 1972
9, 19.72
14, 1965
20, 1970
6, 1969
20, 1971
8, 1974
24, 1972
19, 1965
24, 1971
8, 1974
2, 1970
22, 1970
31, 1971
28, 1973
24, 1969
9, 1960
17, 1963
15, 1962
3, 1972

Alameda ....... 87
Santa Barbara ... 81
Livermore . . . . . . 87
National City. . . . 89
Van Nuys ...... 96
Pasadena . . . . . . . 98
Long Beach . . . . . 82
Castro Valley . . . 81
La Mesa ........ 92
San Jose ........ 79
Pasadena . . . . . . . 82
Roseville . . . . . . . 89
Daly City .. .. . .. 87
Oakland ........ 95
Needles ........ 93
San Francisco . . . 81

Taylor, Myront. . . . . . Dec. 28, 1964
Tibbels, Frances L. . . . April 2, 1973
Tiffany, WamerE..... June 29, 1972
Tooke, B. Rhodes.... Feb. 19, 1972
Veling, Charles J..... June 21, 1973
Vickers, William T.... May 27, 1971

South Park .......... 563
Madison ............ 23
Acom .............. 494
Apollo ............. 396

Hawthorne. . . . . . 77
Grass Valley . . . . 88
Oakland ........ 78
Alameda ....... 86

Palestine-Craftsmen ... 351
Moneta ............. 405

Los Angeles . . . . . 88
Gardena ........ 86

Wakefield, Charles A.t
Wallach, Guss V. *....
Walquist, Carl W.....
Wenner, Henry.......
Wilkinson, Charles R..
Williams, Edgar L. t . .
Wolfe, Wilbur P.*....
Wood, Stanley A.....
Woodall, Jack T......
Woodworth, Leslie E..
Wurfer, Robert, Sr....

July
Feb.
Aug.
May
June
June
Dec.
June
Nov.
Aug.
Aug.

Vista ............... 687
Abell ............... 146
Antioch ............. 175
Alexandria .......... 531
Consuelo ........... 325
Argonaut-Argonne ... .461
Caledonia .......... .486
Mount Olive ......... 506
Highland Park ....... 382
Naval. ............. 87
George E. Tutt ....... 722

Vista .......... 83
Ukiah .......... 86
Antioch ........ 69
San Francisco . . . 75
Escondido . . . . . . 90
San Francisco . . . 81
Bakersfield . . . . . 72
Studio City. . . . . 86
Los Angeles . . . . . 79
Vallejo ......... 88
Los Gatos . . . . . . 88

Young, Claude W. •...

April

2, 1974

Martinez . . . . . . . . . . . . 41

Martinez . . . . . . . 86

Zimmerman, Albert C.

Aug.

14, 1971

San Mateo .......... 226

San Mateo .. .. .. 85

9, 1970
21, 1974
14, 1972
15, 1969
4, 1969
15, 1972
21, 1973
l, 1971
8, 1967
30, 1969
27, 1969

296

297

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEN DECEASED JULY 1, 1973 TO JUNE 30, 1974
AVERAGE AGE 85.40 YEARS

ANNUAL REPORT JULY 1, 1973 TO JUNE 30, 1974
WOMEN RESIDENTS - AVERAGE AGE 83.10 YEARS
ADMISSIONS (1973-1974) - AVERAGE AGE 78.78 YEARS

Name

Lodge

No.

Date Deceased
Dec. 5, 1973

Dimond ........... . 603

Oakland .. ...... 93

Carlson, Oscar G..... June 22, 1974
Courtiour, William .... March 24, 1974
Curtis, George W..... May 19, 1974

Palm Springs ........ 693
Seaside . ............ 504
Ashlar . .. . ..... . .... 306

Palm Springs . . . . 87
Long Beach . . . . . 87
Colton . .. . ... . . 77

Davis , Carl. . . .... ...
deJamette, Robert W..

Oct. 20, 1973
June 20, 1974

San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Riverside .... .. ... . . 635

San Diego . . . . . . 79
Riverside . . . . . . . 88

Gallipaue, William . . . .
Gooch, Edmund G. . . .

Feb.
July

7, 1974
2, 1973

East Bay ............ 489
Friendship . ......... 210

Orinda .. . .. . .. . 80
San Jose ........ 78

Halford, George W .... March 29, 1974
Holmes, William S. . . . Aug. 10, 1973
Hunt, Roy . . . . . . . . . . . Sept. 2, 1973
Hurst, J. Garn........ Dec. 23, 1973

Visalia ..... . .. . .... 128
Keith .... .. . ..... . .. 187
Silver Gate ...... .... 296
Oak Grove .......... 215

Visalia ......... 91
Gilroy ......... 88
San Diego . . . . . . 82
Alameda .... ... 67

Ireton, Charles. . .....

Nov. 23, 1973

Jesse, Burrell .... ....
Jones, Albert E.......

Aug.
Nov.

23, 1973
24, 1973

Blue Lakes .......... 714
Taft-Midway ....... .423
Redlands ........... . 300

San Bruno . . . . . . 84
Taft .... . ...... 90
Redlands . . . . . . . 73

Madoff, Irving M. . ... Sept.

3, 1973

Neptune ......... . .. 619

Long Beach . . . . . 76

Niebling, William. . . .

9, 1973

Capital City . ....... .499

Sacramento . . . . . 95

Overstreet, Alfred L. . . March 31, 1974
Perl, Harry . .. ....... Jan. 23 , 1974
Rhodes , Charles A. . . . Jan . 5, 1974
Ridley, Alvin H. . . . . . Sept. 30, 1973
Roberts, Owen I. .... . April 7, 1974

San Francisco ...... . .166
Normal Heights .... . . 632
Acalanes ....... . .... 723
East Bay ........... .489
Yount. ........... .. 12

San Francisco . . . 85
San Diego . . . . . . 88
Lafayette . . . . . . . 88
Orinda ......... 103
Napa .... . ..... 90

Blaess, Ernest M ... . . .

Oct.

Town

Age

Schreiber, Frederick . . . Dec. 8, 1973
Schultz, Walter W. . . . April 10, 1974
Senteney, Bernace B. . . Feb.
7, 1974
Skuse, Frederick . . . . . Feb. 13, 1974
Sullivan, James S . . ... March 10, 1974

Carpinteria . .. .... . . . 444
Mt. Davidson ........ 481
Fremont ............ 497

Carpinteria . . . . . . 85
San Francisco . . . 92
Oakland . ....... 86

Tierney, J. Pat..... . . Sept.

29, 1973

San Buenaventura . . . .214

Ventura .. . .. ... 72

Walker, William .... . April
Willis , Fred S . .. .. . .. April,
Wilson, Wynne E. . . . . Oct.
Wurslin , Theodore F. . . Jan .

23, 1974
14, 1974
29, 1973
29, 1974

Menlo Park .. ... ... .. 651
Harbor . .. . ..... . ... 502
Thousand Oaks . . . . .. .478
Elk Grove ..... . ..... 173

Menlo Park . . . . . 96
Richmond . . . . . . 76
Berkeley . . . . . . . 83
Elk Grove . . . . . . 96

Van Nuys . . ........ .450

Van Nuys ... .. . 92

La Puente .. . ... .. . .. 446

La Puente . . . . . . . 86

WITHDRAWN
Deegan , Charles ..... . Nov. 24, 1973
7, 1973
Hopkins, Vincent .. .. . Sept.
Smith, Abraham V ... . April . 4, 1974
Young, E. Leon ..... . Oct.
6, 1973

Hemet. ............. 615
Standard . . .... . ... .. 440
Blackmer ... .... ... . 442
Golden Rule . .... .. . .479

Hemet ......... 87
Oakland ....... . 99
San Diego ... .. . 71
San Jose . . . . .. . . 68

AGE GROUP

*Indicates admissions during current year
tlndicates couples
24 couples

Name

Admitted

Lodge

59 to 69 years
IO
70 to 79 years
51
80 to 89 years 127
90 to 99 years
35
100 years
1
108 years _l
225

No.

Town

Age

Abbott, Sarah E ... . .. March
Anderson, Anna 0. t . . Aug.
Apostel, Charlotte E . . . Feb.
Appel, Henrietta H . . .. Aug.

10, 1960
1, 1972
8, 1973
12, 1960

Mizpah ..... ....... .378
Yosemite . . . . . . . . . . . 99
King Solomon's Seaport260
Moneta .. . .. ...... . .405

Los Angeles . .... 88
Merced ....... . 84
San Francisco .. . 59
Gardena ........ 89

Baker, D'Orella E ... . . April
Barnes, Marie H . . . ... March
Barnett, Marie W . . .. . March
Barton, Theresa B. • ... Dec.
Bates, Helen E. • ..... July
Baxley, Mary L.t . .... Nov.
Benioff, Sarah H . .. .. . June
Bentley, Mary F .. . . .. Nov.
Bergstrom, Blanche N. March
Berks, Frances R . .... . May
Beumer, Maria E.. . .. Feb.
Biggart, Ada L. .. ~ . . . March

22, 1971
14, 1970
21 , 1963
20, 1973
25, 1973
11 , 1970
25, 1970
19, 1964
5, 1970
22, 1973
13, 1969
29, 1968

San Francisco . . . 68
Beverly Hills . . . . 76
Oakland ... ... . . 85
San Francisco . . . 75
San Francisco .. . 78
Oakland ....... . 81
San Francisco ... 73
Sanger . . . ...... 71
Los Angeles . .... 84
Hollywood . .. . .. 76
Fremont. ....... 91

Bjerrum, Hanna V . . ..
Blanton, Rita A ...... .
Borden, Winnie I. .. ..
Bosworth, Lenore D ...
Boyd, Nancy A.•t ....
Brooks, Ruth M. • . ...
Brown, Jean L .... . . ..
Brown, Nora V .......
Brown, Paulina A .. . ..
Browne, Rachel R ... . .
Buchner, Charlotte K.*
Buchta, L. Maude ....
Bums, Mar~aret M.t . .
Byers, Azal1a B .. .. ...

Feb.
Oct.
May
Nov.
May
June
April
Aug.
Jan .
June
April
April
May,
Jan.

12, 1972
7, 1972
20, 1970
18 , 1972
6, 1974
14, 1974
23, 1950
28, 1970
19, 1973
21, 1954
24, 1974
25, 1973
24, 1971
11, 1973

Argonaut-Argonne .... 461
John Marshall ..... . . . 636
Acorn . .. ..... ..... .494
Veritas-Jonathan . . ... 545
Parnassus-Presidio .. .. 388
Plymouth . . ......... 560
Fidelity . ...... . .... . 120
Sanger ..... . ....... 316
West Los Angeles .... 373
Hollywood .......... 355
Alameda .. . . ........ 167
Alta VistaMount Vernon . ... .464
Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
East San Diego . ... . . .561
South San Francisco ... 212
Live Oak ............ 61
Foothill . . . .. . . ...... 564
Altadena .... . ....... 678
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Francis K. Shattuck ... 541
Vacaville ...... . .... 134
Las Pal mas .......... 366
Keith .. ...... . ... . .. 187
Yount. .. ........... 12
Golden State ......... 358
Blackmer .. ..... .. .. 442

San Francisco . .. 91
San Francisco .. . 86
San Diego ... . . . 83
Daly City ....... 81
Oakland ...... .. 78
Oakland .. ..... . 84
Pasadena . ... . .. 70
Santa Rosa .. . . . . 94
El Cerrito ....... 92
Vacaville .. . . . .. 78
Fresno ........ . 85
Gilroy .. . . .. ... 85
Napa . . ... .. ... 87
Los Angeles . . ... 75
San Diego . . . . . . 81

Caffrey, Marie D .. ... March
Cahn, JaneG.• ....... April
Campbell, Alice K ... . Oct.
Campbell, Norva J.t . . Jan.
Caputo, Mable A .. . .. Feb.
Carlisle, Mae E .. . .... Feb.
Carroll, Frances C . ... . Aug.
Carter, Kathryn S ... .. Aug.
Caspare', Flora M . .... Aug.
Castle, Ollie L ........ Nov.

20, 1963
17, 1974
25, 1963
18, 1966
24, 1972
11 , 1972
1, 1960
18, 1972
11 , 1967
26, 1961

Abell ...... . . ....... 146
Fidelity . . .. .. ....... 120
Lebanon-Pacific ...... 136
Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
Cahuenga ........... 513
Mount Shasta ...... . .281
Alameda ..... . ...... 167
Van Nuys . ... . ..... .450
Table Mountain .. . ... 124
s.w. Hackett . . ...... 574

Ukiah .......... 95
San Francisco . . . 86
San Francisco .. . 87
San Francisco . . . 79
Hollywood ...... 62
Anderson ..... .. 75
Fremont .. .. .... 89
Van Nuys . .. . .. 88
Paradise .. . ..... 83
San Diego . ... . . 89

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Cavanaugh, Alice M .. .
Chambers, Onella V .. .
Chapman, Mary E.• .. .
Cheney, Hazel E ..... .
Christian, Nellie I. ... .
Claiborne, Mary E ... .
Clayton, Ann E. t .... .
Colliander, Hulda 0 .. .
Collins, Rose R ...... .
Combs, Marie L. .... .
Cullen, Eleanor G .... .
Currie, Elsie ........ .

Jan.
Dec.
Sept.
Aug.
Aug.
April
Dec.
Feb.
Oct.
Feb.
Sept.
Aug.

Darnell, Dorothea A .. .
Del Ponte, Valarie ... .
Diefenbach, Bertha .. .
Drysdale, Charlotte .. .

Admitted
5, 1971

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

23, 1969
15, 1973
15, 1951
21, 1964
19, 1972
29, 1969
22, 1973
30, 1969
8, 1972
5, 1970
24, 1971

Marin .............. 191
Francis Drake ........ 376
Reseda ............. 666
Washington ......... 20
Hawaiian ........... 21
Thousand Oaks ....... 478
Glendale ............ 544
Blue Lakes .......... 714
The Gabilan ......... 803
La Habra ............ 659
Kilauea ............. 330
Fairfax ............ . 556

San Rafael . . . . . . 80
So. San Francisco 82
Reseda ......... 82
Sacramento . . . . . 88
Honolulu . . . . . . . 89
Berkeley . . . . . . . 92
Glendale ....... 81
San Bruno . . . . . . 89
Salinas ......... 82
La Habra ....... 81
Hilo ........... 86
Larkspur . . . . . . . 80

July 8, 1968
May 15,1972
Feb. 20, 1962
July
5, 1962

Downey ............ 220
Santa Lucia ..........302
Solano ............. 229
San Francisco- ....... .166

Downey ........ 81
King City . . . . . . . 66
Vallejo ......... 86
San Francisco . . . 90

16, 1973
18, 1969
9, 1962

Fort Bragg .......... 361
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Henry S. Orme ...... .458

Fort Bragg . . . . . . 86
Mariposa . . . . . . . 84
Los Angeles . . . . . 81

Eason, Eunice E. . . . . . Dec. 30, 1967
Eastman, Leona J ..... March 7, 1963
Eberhard, Edith I. . . . . June 8, 1970
Eldridge, Catherine W. July 29, 1970
Elliott, Maud M. . . . . . June 15, 1948
Ely, Eva E........... Aug. 24, 1955
Evans, Clara M....... Nov.
2, 1972
Ewald, Belle A. . . . . . . May 18, 1970
Fallahay, Martha E ... . July 31, 1968
Farr, Myrtle A ....... . Dec.
l, 1971
Finlay, Jennie J ...... . Dec. 26, 1972
Fischer, Emily V .... . Oct.
2, 1970
Followell, Nellie P.t .. Dec.
I, 1971
Fox, Helene A.t ..... . Nov.
7, 1969
Francis, Nora K ..... . Feb. 23, 1971
Fraser, Rose H. •t ... . Jan.
9, 1974
Frush, Marion L. •t .. . Aug. 14, 1973
Gardner, Inna M ..... . June 8, 1972
Gilmore, Emma V ... . Feb. 26, 1964
Given, Helen M. t ... . Dec. 27, 1972
Green, Nina H ....... . May IO, 1967

Illinoistown . . . . . . . . . 51
Solano ............. 229
Rockridge ........... 468
Eucalyptus .......... 243
Beverly Hills ........ 528
Buckeye ............ 195
Acom ............. .494
Fairmount. .......... 435

Colfax ......... 92
Vallejo ......... 85
Oakland ........ 81
Hayward ....... 88
Beverly Hills . . . . 96
Winters ........ 91
Oakland ........ 84
San Francisco . . . 92

El Segundo .......... 507
Larchmont .......... 614
Amity-Seal Rock ..... 370
Berkeley ............ 363
Evergreen ........... 259
Mountain View ...... 194
Educator ............ 554
George Washington ... 525
West Los Angeles .... 373

El Segundo . . . . . 80
Los Angeles . . . . . 81
San Francisco . . . 84
Berkeley . . . . . . . 80
Riverside . . . . . . . 90
Mountain View .. 79
San Francisco . . . 93
San Francisco. . . 82
Los Angeles . . . . . 68

Brooklyn ........... 225
Three Pillars ......... 613
Liberty ............. 299
Soquel ............. 746

Oakland ........ 65
Sacramento. . . . . 82
Santa Clara . . . . . 89
Soquel ......... 79

Visalia ............. 128
Park Crockett ........ 139
Riverbank ........... 459
Stockton ........... .498
Shattuck-Stephens ... 541
Monte Vista ........ .655
Yolo ............... 81
North Star ........... 91

Visalia ......... 88
San Francisco . . . 89
Riverbank ...... 87
Stockton ....... 84
Berkeley . . . . . . . 73
Long Beach . . . . . 72
Yolo ........... 76
Fort Jones ...... 83

Charity . . . . . . . . . . . . . 362
Golden State ......... 358
San Gabriel .......... 546

Campbell ....... 86
Los Angeles . . . . . 72
San Gabriel . . . . . 74

Willow Glen ......... 676

San Jose ........ 84

Live Oak ............ 61
Clayton Valley ....... 756
Progressive .......... 578

Oakland ........ 84
Concord ........ 85
San Francisco ... 81

Duffey, Lucy A ....... March
Dukes, Maxie S...... Dec.
Dunn, Eleanor R...... Feb.

Halford, Lucy W ..... . July 28, 1971
Hambly, Nona M .... . July 22, 1970
Hansen, Grace
Jan. 11, 1960
Harding, Lulu E ..... . June 24, 1970
Harper, Ethel A ...... . July
8, 1969
Hastings, Alice L. ... . Feb. 16, 1973
Hayden, Gladys V ... . Dec. II, 1971
Heintz, Mary S ...... . May 20, 1966
Hennings, Mabel
(Hascall) ......... . Oct.
3, 1960
Hermann, Wilhelmina June
I, 1972
Hillman, Inez (French)t Nov.
8, 1971
Holmes, Della
(Crawshaw)t ..... . April 30, 1964
Hoopes, Ebba
(Tranmal) ........ . May II, 1968
Hopper, Lura B ...... . Feb. 22, 1969
Houck, Alice B ...... . July 3, 1968

z..... .

299

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Admitted

Name

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Howard, Gladys V ... . Aug. 23, 1972
Howard, Nina G ..... . June 13, 1966
Hubbard, Eleanor J ... . Sept. 16, 1968
Hunt, Arlie D ....... . June 28, 1971
Hyland, Erle W ...... . Dec.
3, 1956

South San Francisco ... 212
Amity-Seal Rock ..... 370
Cahuenga ........... 513
Silver Gate .......... 296
Sun Garden .......... 530

Daly City . . . . . . . 78
San Francisco. . . 91
Hollywood. . . . . . 80
San Diego . . . . . . 85
Fresno ......... 87

Ireland, Lillian B .... . Aug.

Parnassus-Presidio .... 388

San Francisco . . . 78

Mountain View ...... 194
Balder .............. 393
Fellowship .......... 480

Mountain View. . 78
San Francisco. . . 87
Oakland ........ 92

Misson ............. 169
South Park .......... 563
Mount Olive ......... 506
Damascus ........... 648
Fruitvale ............ 336
Eden ............... II3

San Francisco . . . 85
Hawthorne . . . . . . 80
Los Angeles . . . . . 86
San Bernardino . . 84
Oakland ........ 84
San Leandro . . . . 83
Los Angeles . . . . . 90

28, 1972
31, 1972
29, 1969
7, 1971
29, 1971
27, 1973

Ionic ............... 520
le Progres de
L'Oceanie ........... 371
Naval .............. 87
San Pasqual ........ .452
Apollo ............. 396
Lebanon-Pacific ...... 136
Atascadero .......... 493
Fontana ............. 653

Lage, Margaret R..... Sept.
3, 1969
Lane, Edith V........ Dec. 16, 1969
Lange, Lillie L....... Nov. 14, 1968
Larter, Gertrude M.... Sept.
5, 1949
Leggo, Madeleine G... May 31, 1973
Lehman, Mary J .. , . . . Nov. 26, 1971
Leslie, Gertrude E. . . . . Feb. 18, 1972
7, 1971
Leslie, Marjorie S..... Nov.
Lloyd, Eva R. . . . . . . . . Dec. 27, 1971
Locke, Teresa F ...... March 9, 1962
Look, C. Maude. . . . . . Jan. 16, 1959
Lovejoy, Helen M..... Nov. 21, 1972

Provident. .......... 609
Mill Valley .......... 356
Amity-Seal Rock ..... 370
Moneta ............. 405
Enterprise ........... 70
Artesia ............. 377
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . 42
Standard ............ 440
Clear Lake .......... 183
Mill Valley .......... 356
Hawaiian ........... 21
Oak Grove .......... 215

Sacramento ..... 68
Mill Valley ..... 76
San . Francisco . . . 93
Gardena ........ 86
Yuba City ...... 88
Artesia ......... 77
Los Angeles . . . . . 67
Oakland ........ 82
Lower Lake . . . . . 84
Mill Valley ..... 108
Honolulu. . . . . . . 92
Alameda ....... 82

MacDonald,
Wilhelmina B ....... . Oct.
MacDermott, Mabel* .. June
Mackenzie, Marie J ... Feb.
Matzen, Christine C. •. Feb.
McCue, Mabel D ..... Dec.
McDonald, Maude E ..
July
Meyer, Paulyne A.• .. . Jan.
Miller, Bessie B ..... . JulY.
Miller, Florence G ... . April
Moore, Millie ....... . Nov.
Muller, Elisabeth L. .. . Nov.

9, 1972
I, 1974
14, 1968
14, 1974
29, 1967
23, 1967
I, 1974
29, 1966
14, 1970
3, 1971
20, 1970

South San Francisco ... 212
Golden West. ....... .455
Hollenbeck .......... 319
Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
Blue Lakes .......... 714
Temple ............. 14
Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
Highland Park ....... 382
Oakdale ............ 275
Oak Grove .......... 215
Occidental. . . . . . . . . . 22

Daly City . . . . . . . 79
San Francisco . . . 87
Los Angeles . . . . . 79
San Francisco . . . 79
San Bruno . . . . . . 87
Sonoma ........ 88
San Francisco . . . 72
Los Angeles ..... 91
Oakdale ........ 82
Alameda ....... 79
San Francisco . . . 80

Napier, Dorothea E.... Aug.
5, 1971
Neff, F. Ninon.. . . . . . May 28, 1972
Nelson, Christina E.... July
8, 1966
Nelson, Hope L. t . . . . . April 2, 1971
Nethercott, Clara H. . . . Jan. 17, 1973
Newman, Emma H. . . . May 26, 1973
Nohrden, Louetta M ... March 21, 1973

Moneta ............ .405
San Juan ............ 732
Caledonia ........... 486
San Pasqual ........ .452
Capital City ......... 499
Alpha ............. .431
Pajaro .............. IIO

Gardena ........ 69
Fair Oaks. . . . . . . 87
Bakersfield . . . . . 91
Pasadena . . . . . . . 68
Sacramento ..... 74
Richmond . . . . . . 76
Watsonville ..... 83

IO, 1961

Jackson, Gladys
(Garrison)t ....... . Feb.
I, 1964
Jancovich, Ida ...... . Feb. 12, 1970
Jensen, Ettat ....... . Sept.
2, 1971
Jesse, Gladys
(Moulthrop) ...... . Oct.
I, 1964
Johnson, Florence ... . May 30, 1972
Johnson, Ruth ...... . June 2, 1970
Johnson, Sigrid E. •t .. Sept. IO, 1973
9, 1966
Jones, Emma E ...... . Nov.
Jorgensen, Gerdy* ... . Sept.
7, 1973
Kapantais, Edith R ... .
Keller, Ester L ...... .

Feb. 14, 1955
May 21, 1968

Kellner, Lillian H .... . Sept.
Kendall, Anna W .... . May
Kermode, Marguerite May
Kessel, Eleanor ..... . June
Koch, Idella J ....... . Dec.
Kuliffay, Mary K. • .. . Dec.

Honolulu. . . . . . . 78
Vallejo ......... 85
Pasadena . . . . . . . 85
Alameda ....... 84
San Francisco ... 81
Atascadero . . . . . . 85
Fontana ........ 85

300
Name
North, Irene C ...... . . March
Nussbaum, Ida M. .. .. Feb.
O'Keefe, Frieda M.. .. May
Oliver, Eleanor A. ... . Dec .
O'Neale, Florence F. . . May
Orr, Cora E .... ... ... March
Parks, Florence M . ... . July
Parr, Georgina . . . . .. . Jan .
Pellissier, Georgetta S. Oct.
Perkins, Ella R . ..... . Aug.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Admitted
29, 1973
23, 1960
19, 1970
12, 1972
II, 1972
16, 1970
21 , 1972
31, 1973
20, 1965
20, 1971

Philbrick, Inez M .. .. . Jan . 7, 1972
Pogue, Lena M .. . ... . Jan. 29, 1970
Pratt, Pruilla E .... . . . Sept. 16, 1971
Prestidge, Cora E . ... . June 12, 1967
Reeder, Cora B. ..... . Oct. 14, 1971
Rice, Muriel A. . . . . . . Feb. 16, 1972
Richard, Lavinia A.... June 22, 1973
Riddell, H. Elisabetht . Aug. 23, 1971
Roberts, V. Myrle . . . . Dec. 16, 1960
Robenson, Margaret E. April 17, 1963
Robinson , Erma
(Nicolaus) . . . . . . . . . Jan . 27, 1959
Rogers, Isabel.. . . . .. May 6, 1961
Roy, Ethel A. ........ Jan. 28, 1972
Russ, Mary E....... . Sept. 22, 1972
Russell, Sybil A. . . . . . Sept. 17, 1960
Sampson, Bertha J. ... July 17, 1970
Samuel, Claire Lt. . . . Jan . 6 , 1969
Sargent, Inez E. . . . . . . July 19, 1965
Schilling, Effie L. . . . . Oct. 12, 1972
Schoenfeld, Violet S. . . Sept. 26, 1968
Schultz, Lillie W. . . . . . Oct. 8, 1969
Scott, Will-Tom ... . .. May 8, 1968
Scovel, Marie M. . .. .. July 4, 1958
Seymour, Laura. . . . . . Feb.
I , 1936
Shonwald, Ethel I. . . . . June 28, 1968
Siegert, Rose I. *t .. .. March 8, 1974
Silva, Charlotte M. • . . April 23 , 1974
Singler, M. Louise . . . . Sept. 17, 1963
Skeen, Emma H. . . . . . April 28, 1965
Snowden, Jean E. . . . . . Dec. 29, 1958
Sohus, Ellen A.*t . ... Aug. 28, 1973
Sparks, Lillie M. . . . . . Sept. 21, 1972
Steigelman, Joan ..... March 19, 1960
Ston:, Stella F. ..... .. Nov. 27, 1972
Stover, Ruby R.... ... July 8, 1965
Straight, Johanna W.. . Dec . 14, 1963
Stromberg, Laura A. . . March 5, 1959
Swanson, Alice E. . . .. Sept.
7, 1972
Sweet, Jennie M.. . . . . May 6, 1968
Swinney, Helen A ..... March 14, 1968
Taforo, May E. (Pace) . Oct. 31 , 1957
Taylor,
Alma
L.
(Sanford)t . . . . . . . . Jan.
5, 1964
Thompson, Alpha L. . . Oct. 2, 1972
Thompson, Lois ... ... Nov. 29, 1972
Tredway, Myrtle E. . . . Aug. 27 , 1968
Trick, Ruth Z. . . . . . . . May 13, 1969

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

Mount Moriah . . . . . . . 44
Alcatraz . ...... .. ... 244
Far West. ..... . ..... 673
Far West .. . ...... . . .673
Golden Rule ..... .. . .479
Mendocino .... ..... . 179
Sotoyome ... . ..... . .123
Eucalyptus .... ... ... 243
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Golden GateSperanza .......... 30
Mendocino . .. ...... . 179
Liberty . .. ...... .. .. 299
Dimond .. . . . .... . .. 603
Visalia ............ . 128
Hills Ferry . ..... . ... 236
Natoma . .... . . .. ... . 64
Nevada ... . . . ..... .. 13
San Pasqual .. ... .. .. 452
Yount ... . ..... .. ... 12
Hesperian .... ... .... 264

San Francisco . .. 91
Mendocino . . . . . 89
Santa Clara . . . . . 83
Oakland ... ... . . 94
Visalia .... . .. .. 80
Newman ..... .. 90
Folsom . . ... ... . 93
Nevada City . . ... 81
Pasadena . . . . . . . 83
Napa . .. ..... .. 90
Santa Maria . . . . . 92

Unity ....... ... .. .. 368
Bixby Knolls ........ 699
Sequoia .... .. ... . . . . 349
Berkeley ............ 363
Utopia . ... .... .... .. 537
South Pasadena ..... .367
Oak Grove ........ . . 215
Berkeley .... . ... .. . . 363
Lexington . .... .... .. I 04
King David's . ..... .. 209
La Puente ... . ... .. . .446
La Cumbre ... . ..... .642
Santa Ana .. ..... .. .. 241
Honolulu . . . ... .... . 409
Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
Service . ... ... .... .. 594
Hornitos ... .... . . . .. 98
Benicia. . .. .. . .... . . 5
Antioch . . . .. . ... . ... 175
Ferndale .... .. .... .. 193
San Pasqual .... .... .452
Francis Drake . . ..... . 376
Bellflower ..... . ... .523
Fidelity .... ... .... . . 120
Durant ... .. ... ... .. 268
Fruitvale . ...... .. ... 336
San Francisco ...... . .166
Sincerity ... ......... 132
San Gabriel . . . . . ... .. 546
Morning Star . . . . . . . . 68
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . 38

Glendale . . . . . . . 81
Long Beach . . . . . 87
Oakland . . .. .... 84
Berkeley . . . . . . . 75
Hollywood . . . . . . 93
South Pasadena . . 82
Alameda ... . ... 84
Berkeley . . . . . . . 86
El Monte ....... 83
San Luis Obispo . 84
La Puente . . . . . . . 77
Santa Barbara .. . 76
Santa Ana . . . . . . 78
Honolulu . . . . . . . 96
San Francisco ... 72
Long Beach . . . . . 76
Hornitos . . .. ... . 75
Benicia .. . . . ... 90
Antioch ... . .... 80
Ferndale ..... ... I00
Pasadena . . . . . . . 82
So. San Francisco 86
Bellflower . . . . . . 88
San Francisco . . . 86
Berkeley . . . . . . . 82
Oakland . . .... . . 81
San Francisco . . . 89
Greenville ... ... 88
San Gabriel . .. . . 79
Stockton ....... 89
Santa Cruz . . . . . . 82

University . . ... .. .... 394
Fellowship .. . ....... 480
Eucalyptus . .... . . .. . 243
Stanislaus . . .. .... . .. 206
Sunset .. . .. ....... . .352

Torrance . . . . . . . 83
Oakland ... . .... 79
Hayward ... .... 86
Modesto .... .... 87
Los Angeles . . . . . 82

San Francisco . . . 77
Oakland ..... .. . 95
San Francisco . . . 81
San Francisco ... 74
San Jose . ... .... 77
Mendocino . . . . . 88
Healdsburg . . . . . 89
Hayward .... . . . 79
Mariposa. . . . . . . 78

Admitted

Name
Van
Watermeulen,
Doris..... .... ... .

Lodge

No .

301
Town

Age

Feb.

2, 1971

Naval .... .. .. . . .... 87

Wakefield, Hulda K.t . July
Wallace, Helen E... . . Nov.
Ward, Sallielou .. ... . March
Weinberg, Ada
(Bartrip) . .. ... ... . Feb.
West, Mattie G . .. .. . . Oct.
Wilhelm, Jennie M . .. . Dec.
Wilkins, Leona E .... . Dec.
Willi, Elsie E .. . .. . . . Dec .
Williams, Frieda H.t .. June
Wilson , Blanche E. . . . Feb.
Wilson, Ella S. . . . . . . . June
Wilson, Minnie V.. .. . June
Wirth , B. Eileen . . . . . . Jan.
Wixson, Helen A. . . . . Dec.
Wold , Mattie
(Morefield) . . . . . . . . April
Wood, Cora E... .. . .. Jan.
Woodin, Rose E. *.. . . Jan.
Woodward, Myrtle E. . Aug.
Wynman , Eva G. . . . . . Sept.
Zimmerman, Edith M.. Oct.

9, 1970
22, 1968
3, 1971

Vista .... ... ... . . .. .687
Mission ............. 169
Union .. . . ... .... ... 58

Vallejo ... . . ... . 75
Vista . ... .... .. 79
San Francisco . . . 82
Sacramento . . . . . 80

7, 1963
4, 1971
30, 1965
3, 1969
26, 1969
15, 1972
21, 1971
3, 1967
26, 1969
29, 1965
8, 1969

Redondo ..... . .. ... . 328
Amity-Seal Rock ..... 370
Highland Park ...... .382
Azusa .. ..... ... .... 305
Union ... .. . ...... . . 58
Argonaut-Argonne .... 461
Thousand Oaks . .. ... .478
Belvedere-Sunrise .... 522
Kerman .. . .......... 420
Justice ...... . . . .. . .. 549
Rockridge .... .. .... .468

Redondo Beach . . 85
San Francisco . . . 73
Los Angeles . . . . . 90
Azusa .. .... .. .. 92
Sacramento . . . . . 86
San Francisco ... 80
Berkeley . . . . . . . 86
Monterey Park ... 89
Kerman . .... . .. 85
San Francisco . . . 89
Oakland ... . . .. . 85

5, 1965
27, 1967
II, 1974
27, 1968
2, 1959

Riverside . .... . ..... 635
McKinley .. .. . ... . . .347
Oak Grove ... .. ..... 215
Parnassus-Presidio .... 388
Apollo .......... .. .396
Naval . . .... ... ..... 87

Riverside. . . . . . . 73
San Pablo . . . . . . . 94
Alameda ....... 77
San Francisco . . . 85
Alameda .. .. . .. 97
Vallejo .. ... . . .. 94

28, 1963

WOMEN DECEASED JULY 1, 1973 TO JUNE 30, 1974
AVERAGE AGE 88.00 YEARS
Name

Date Deceased

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

United ... ... .. . . . . .. 374
Mill Valley . .. ... . . .. 356
Santa Lucia ... .. ..... 302
Oakdale .. ... .... .. . 275

San Francisco . . . 99
Mill Valley ... . . 92
King City .. ... .. 95
Oakdale ... ... .. 79

21, 1974
20, 1973
28 , 1974

King Solomon' s Seaport260
Justice . ...... . . . ... . 549
Friendship . . ... . .... 480
La Parfaite Union ..... 17
Mountain View . .... . 194
Oakland . .... .. .... . 188
Alisa! .. . . . .. .. ..... 321

San Francisco . . . 92
San Francisco ... 91
Oakland ... .... . 85
San Francisco . . . 99
Mountain View . . 93
Oakland .... . ... 90
Pleasanton . . . . . . 83

25, 1974
29, 1974
13, 1974

Yerba Buena . . .... ...403
Chateau Thierry . ..... 569
Park-Crockett .. . . .. . . 139

Oakland .. . . . . . . 90
Castro Valley ... 85
San Francisco ... 82

20, 1974

Acom .. . ...... ..... 494

Oakland ... .... . 72

7, 1973

Occidental ... .. ..... 22

San Francisco . . . 84

Rice, Phebe .... . ... . Jan.
Ross, Jean ......... . April

17, 1974
7, 1973
2, 1974
5, 1974

Jan.
Dec.

7, 1974
24, 1973

Military Service ... .. . 570
Hills Ferry . .. . . ..... 236
Lorenzo . .. . . .... .. . 709
Lebanon-Pacific . ..... 136
Hermann ...... . .... . 127
Lodge Maui . ... ..... 472

San Francisco . . . 93
Newman ... .. .. 84
San Lorenzo . ... 91
San Francisco . . . 88
San Francisco . . . 87
Hawaii .... . . . .. 90

Anderson, Hattie... ..
Brockhoff, Sally .. .'...
Burrows, Elizabeth.. .
Bowen , Rhoda ... . . ..

Aug. 29, 1973
Dec .
I, 1973
Jan. 23, 1974
Feb. 24, 1974

Campbell, Blanche . . . . April
Casey, Myrtle .. . . .. . . Feb.
De Ruchie, Irma . . . . . . May
Descombes, Jessie . ... Feb.
Feiling, Idabel .. .... . May
Finkeldey, Bertha .... . July
Foley, Eck .... .. .. . . Feb .
Hawkins, Evelyn... .. Jan.
Heim, Claire .... ..... March
Hink, Loula .... . .. .. April
Juvenal, Clara . . . . . . . April
Marshall, Lucy . . . . . . . July
Nipps, Gertrude .... . . March
Parker, Opal . . . . . . . . . Sept.

Schiller, Marie ...... .
Stevenson, Teresa ... .

15 , 1974
8, 1974
9, 1974
9, 1974

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Date Deceased
Wills, Albert.a. ....... June 9, 1974
Wood, Clara .. .. ... .. Sept. 18, 1973
Zehler, Nora M. ...... June
I , 1974

Lodge
No.
Magnolia ........... 242
Balder ........... ... 393
Carquinez ........... 337

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Town
Age
Santa Barbara ... 84
San Francisco . . . 88
Crockett . . . . . . . . 87

WITHDRAWN
Name
Date
Deegan , Mary.. .... . Nov. 24, 1973
Young, Agnes ....... Oct. 6, 1973

Lodge
No.
Hemet. .. . . . . .... ... 615
Golden Rule ...... ... 479

Town
Age
Hemet .. ..... .. 80
San Jose . . ...... 73

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30,1974
Boys-32
Name
Admitted
Black, Floyd . . . . . . . . . May 24, 1970
Boehmer, Scott . . . . . . Oct. 24, 1965
Cheney, Alan . .. .. ... Mar. 18, 1971
Cheney, Marvin. .. . .. Mar. 18, 1971
Coleman, Frank.. . ... Oct. 23, 1971
Coleman, Henry. ..... Oct. 23, 1971
Coleman, Wally . . . . . . Oct. 23, 1971
Figearo, Bert . . . . . . . . May 16, 1965
Gannaway, Doug .. ... Mar. 16, 1974
Gould, Kevin . . . . . . . . Feb. 12, 1973
Hennessey, John . . . . . Sept. 11, 1967
Hennessey, J.D.. ... .. Sept. 11, 1967
House, David..... ... Apr. 13, 1969
Hudgins, Dennis . . . . . Sept.
8, 1970
Hudgins, Richard. . ... Sept.
8, 1970
Kettenhofen, Robert ... March 16, 1973
Latham, Mark . . . . . . . July 14, 1972
Lineberg, Paul. . . . . . . Aug. 12, 1971
Meyers, Gary. . . ... .. Apr. 11, 1966
Meyers, Dean.. . . . . . . Apr. 11, 1966
Miller, Richard
Apr.
6, 1968
Price, Wally. . . . . . . . . Aug. 14, 1966
Price, Meredith. . . . . . Apr.
2, 1966
Price, Evan .. . ....... June 17, 1969
Price, Robert . . . . . . . . June 17, 1969
Richardson, Jeff.. .. .. Dec. 28, 1970
Richardson, Mike ... .. Dec. 28, 1970
Simkins, Marc. . . . . . . Oct. 19, 1972
South, David . . . . . . . . June 8, 1972
South, Paul. . ... .. ... June 8, 1972
Stovall, Justin. . . . . . . . Mar. 16, 1974
Welch, Michael.. . . .. Nov. 14, 1971

Lodge
No.
Altadena ... ... .... .. 678
San Marino .... .. ... .685
San Dimas .. .. . .. . . .428
San Dimas ......... .428
Rio Hondo .. ... . ... .800
Rio Hondo .......... 800
Rio Hondo .... . ..... 800
Henry S. Orme ..... .458
Blue Lakes .... . .... .714
Lancaster .. .. .... ... 437
Van Nuys .......... .450
Van Nuys ........... 450
Covina ........... .. 334
Tri Mtn. View ....... 35
Tri Mtn. View ...... . 35
San Gabriel. . ... .....278
Big Bear . .. ... .. .... 617
Covina ........... .. 334
Sunnyside . . ....... .. 577
Sunnyside ........... 577
Altadena .. . ......... 678
Blackmer . .. ... . ... . 442
Blackmer .. ... ... ... 442
Sojourner .......... . 607
Sojourner. .......... 607
Fresno .. .. .. . .... . . . 247
Fresno ........... ... 247
Highland ............ 748
Sanger .... . ........ 316
Sanger .. .. ... .. .... 316
Blue Lakes ... . .... .. 714
Signal ........... ... 543

Town
Age
Altadena .... . .. 14
San Marino . . . . . 13
San Dimas ...... 9
San Dimas . . . . . . 11
El Monte ....... 12
El Monte . .. .... 10
El Monte ....... 14
Hawthorne . . . . . . 17
San Bruno . . . . . . 15
Lancaster . . . . . . . 16
Van Nuys ...... 13
Van Nuys ...... 15
Covina ......... 13
Dever, Wyo ..... 15
Dever, Wyo . .... 17
San Gabriel . . . . . 8
Big Bear ....... 14
Covina ......... 16
Hawthorne ..... 15
Hawthorne . . . . . 13
Altadena . . . . . . . 15
San Diego . . . . . . 12
San Diego. . . . . . 13
Duarte... ...... 9
Duarte ... . ... .. 11
Fresno .. . ...... 14
Fresno... .. .. .. 8
San Bernardino . . 17
Sanger .. . . . .. . . 12
Sanger ... .. ... . 11
San Bruno .... . . 6
Long Beach . .. .. 16

303

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1974
Girls-19
Name
Barnes, Janet ....... .
Barnes, Joann .. .. ... .
Fisher, Patricia ...... .
Hampton, Jennie .... .
Hennessey, Chris . .. . .
Kettenhofen, Jessica ..
Knauer, Nancy ... ... .
Kulp, Claire . . ...... .
Kulp, Jackie ... .. . . . .
Mohr, Janet. . ... .. . .
Mohr, Sharon ... .. .. .
Pedretti, Susan ... . .. .
Richardson, Deanna .. .
Richardson, Cindy .. . .
Torrance, Laurie . .. . .
Warren, Amber .. ... .
Wiffler, Loretta ..... .
Wilson, Lyndella .... .
Wolfe, Nina ...... . . .

Sept.
Sept.
Nov.
Nov .
Mar.
Mar.
Jan.
Oct.
Oct.
Feb.
Feb.
Oct.
Dec.
Dec .
Sept.
Mar.
Aug.
Feb.
Aug.

Admitted
6, 1972
6, 1972
25, 1973
18, 1962
23, 1969
16, 1973
18, 1970
18, 1971
18, 1971
4, 1967
4, 1967
I, 1966
28, 1970
28, 1970
5, 1964
16, 1974
6, 1970
12, 1970
20, 1967

Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Pasadena . .. .... ... .. 272 Pasadena . . . . . . . 12
Pasadena ............ 272 Pasadena . ... .. . 10
Alex Hamilton . .... . . 535 Los Angeles .. . . . 15
Manchester ...... .... 585 Downey
17
Van Nuys ... ... .. ...450
Van Nuys ... .. . 14
Southern California ....278
San Gabriel . . . . . 5
Ashlar ........... ... 306 Colton ... ... ... 14
Glassel! Park ........ 605 Los Angeles . . . . . 15
Glassel! Park .. . ..... 605 Los Angeles . . . . . 13
Westgate . .. ... ... ... 335 Los Angeles . . . . . 12
Westgate .. . ......... 335
Los Angeles ..... 14
Crystal Honor ... .... .I 025 Chicago ........ 12
Fresno ............ .. 247 Fresno ... .. .. .. 17
Fresno ............ .. 247 Fresno ......... 12
San Marino . ... .. .... 685
San Marino. . . . . 14
Highland Park ....... 382
Los Angeles . . . . . 10
Yosemite . ... ....... 99 Merced .. ... . .. 16
Service .. ... ... ... .. 594 Long Beach . . . . . 10
Lomita . ........... . 644
Lomita . . ....... 14

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HC»4ES CONTRI BUTI OHS

305

MASONIC HC»4ES CONTRIBUTIONS

Contributions to Reserves
Contributions to Reserves

JULY 1, 1973 - JUNE 30 , 1974

JULY 1, 1973 - JUNES 30, 1974

(The Lodge designation indicates connection by
Interest but not necessarily by membership)

(The Lodge des i gnat I on ind I cat es connection by
interest but not necessarl ly by membership)

RESERVE FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
ESTATES:

Joseph w. Bates
Mari Ida F. Benhart
G. Frank Bietsch
James Bock
Edgar Boynton Bons te 11
James Raymond Brown
Rose A. Brown
Oa 11 as L. Burns
Myrtle Ivy Carlson
Mary E. Coulter
Charles Dettman
Edgar J. Don Ion
Gladys V. Oyer
Lester Evans
Earl G. Griffith
John H. Hardy
WI 11 iam Frank Hartwel 1
Ruth Hastie

(Highland Park No. 382)
(Starr King No. 344)
(Humboldt No. 79)

(Pal !sades Lodge No. 637)
(Mi 11 va 11 ey Lodge No. 3S6)
(Albert Pike Lodge No. 484)
(Meridian Lodge No. 667)
(Sunset Lodge No. 3S2)
(Crocker Lodge No. 4S4)

Cora Heffner

Ralph N. Jacobson
James Kerdlkes
Anna Lewis
Irene M. Marshal I
Thomas o. McHale
Carl G. Meisel
Lillian Myrtle Morgan
George Frank Nelson
Raymond I • Odhner
Edna Vivian Onderdonk

(Starr King Lodge No. 344)
(Crockett Lodge No, 139)

(Manchester Lodge No. S8S)
(Liberty Lodge No. 299)

(Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 4S8)

Lorraine Root

David E. Root
Myron K. Rosenberg
Bertha Sherwood Memorial Fund
Lloyd Will i ard Stove
(John O, Spreckels Lodge No. 657)
John Tonn i ngsen
(Oriental Lodge No. 144)
Emma W. Wohltmann
Jerome Otis Woolsey
Preston Stanton Wright
(Wilshire Lodge No. 445)

MEMORIALS
Ha rga ret Arms t rang

Wallace H. Fiske
M. Hayes Ha I lock
Wi 11 i am Rhodes Hervey

Herbert A. Huebner
Howard D. Lagerquist
Joseph LI eb She 11
Nel 1 Shel I

RESERVE FOR ADD I Tl ONS AND REPLACEMENTS

37.60
68,671.35
SS, 303,42
12,796.7S
1,000.00
37.6o
4,2S
3. 139.69
4,027.10
40.S7
23,891.07
221+,76
39.10
100.00
936.2S
4, 160.oo
10 ,000.00
22,918.SO
S3. 168. 72
S.970.41
1,003,43
38.67
10 ,810. 77
4,8SS.64
2, 723,20
2,408.S7
7,S00.00
6,064. 71
255.00
250.00
2so.oo
21.2s
1, 712.55
132.60
7,898.94
s3,367,33
51,85
137 .956.33

Ml SC:

Margaret L. Barkley
Robert E, & Marjorie E. Battersby
Joseph Bridson
Mi lo W, Bekins Foundation
P. Braghetta
Bush Masonic Rel lef

California Masonic Foundation
Nadine Dean
Raymond A. Ebbage
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 14
George R. & Nina M. Kribbs
James J, Leo
Sam S. & Sandra Levine

John Mi 1ler
Mrs, Raeme 11 e Morgan
WilllamH. Price
J.F. Roberts, Jr,
Evelyn & Don Ronk
Dona Id W. Rund le
San Fernando Valley Club, L.O.S.N.A.
Sou 1e Founda t I on
Jess C. Spencer Hortuaries, Inc.
Thompkins & Co.
James K. WI Ison
Yucaipa Valley Masonic Temple Assoc.

COVINA RESERVE
ESTATES :

Benjamin H. Baker
Frederick Karl Bauer
Ralph E. Blaisdel 1
Harold O. Blodgett
Julian Bomash
May Donald Butler
Ze 1pha E. Campbe 11
Marie Margaret Cody
Jes D. Cordsen , Jr.
Richard T. Eddy
Ford Anderson Everdon
Frank Gl~eault
Fairy H. Haines
James J, Harvey
Lorenzo H. Haskin
Guy H. Herr
Manue 1 Hoffman
John Howard Jeffrey
Jacob G. Koch
Edwin E. Lancey
Georgina E. Lauer
Esther Marcus
Li 11 i an A. McConne 11
Thomas 0, McHale
Pauline o. Myers
James A. Mi 1ler
Claude L. Mispley
Alene M. Neubig
Freda Nielsen
James Noon

Madi son T, Owens
Beatrice Potter

Arthur P. & Jennette G.
Pratt

(University Lodge No, 394)
(Conca rd Lodge No. 117)
(West Gate Lodge No. 335)

(Richmond Lodge No. 37S)
(Argonaut-Argonne Lodge No. 461)
(Oasis of Mara Lodge No. 735)
(Santa Ana Lodge No. 241)
(Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389)
(Pomona Lodge No. 246)
(San 0 imas Lodge No. 428)
(Menorah Lodge No. 623)
(Inglewood Lodge No. 421)
(Blackmer Lodge No. 442)

(Manchester Lodge No. S8S)
(Whittier Lodge No. 323)
(Chico Lodge No. 111)

(Arcadia Lodge No. S47)
(Southern California Lodge No. 278)
(Larchmont Lodge No. 611+)

1 ,000.00
20,000.00
74,301.44
953. 22
250.00
1,900,00
4,959.03
8,554.28
5 ,000,00
26.17
727. 76
2, 726.36
3,000,00
3,514,42
1,331.46
37.33
193.00
21,529.08
500.00
168.30
17.01
800.00
85.64
1,986.40
3, 119.10
2, 188.18
226,62
249.90
5 71. 39
73.952.40
3 ,000 .oo
140.40
3,705.S9

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OECOTO RESERVE

COVINA RESERVE (Continued)
James R. & Lillian T. Rowe
Cleavy T. Russell
Samuel O. Schiller
George F. Smith
Hulda Snyder
Pauline Leach Wright
Ml SC :

(Oak Grove Lodge No. 215)
(Taft-Midway Lodge No, 426)
(San Gabriel Lodge No. 546)

A. & A. S. R., Los Angeles Bodies
Antelope Valley Royal Arch Chapter No.154

52,219.20
9, 168.38
42.50
1,000.00
5 ,000.00
5,041.80

ESTATES:

01 iveen E. Maiorano

John F. Bue 11
California State Craft of NFC
Ray C. Cook
Corps of Engineers Square & Compass
Luncheon Club
Edi son Masonic Club
Eureka Court No, 109, Order of Amaranth,
Inc.
Lucian Farland, Sr.
R, J. Follmer
Mrs, Andrew H. Helfrich
Donna C. Hickok
Jesters Unit Khaba, L.O.S.N.A.
Job's Daughters, Bethel Ho. 168
Calvin H. Johnston

Masonic Hall & Asylum Fund
H. B. McCullough
The Roger Montgomery Laverty Foundation
Elmer c. & Pauline M. Neher
1971 Matrons & Patrons of Northern

(Victory Lodge No, 474)

May Donald Butler
Ze l pha E. Campbe 11
Alvyn R. Clark
Georgia Catherine Clark
Jes D. Cordsen, Jr,
Fred E. Davis

Mr. & Mrs, George E.O. Long
Henry L. Lee, Jr.

Hau rice R. Becker

Gerhard John Askevold
Rudolph Asplund
Benjamin H. Baker

(Union Lodge No. 58)
(Richmond Lodge No. 375)

Roses T. Garr I son

Charlotte M. Gibson
Frank Gi leault
Cordelia C. Heinzmann
Ma rce 11 a Gui nan MacDona Id
Margaret J, Mathews
Max A. Miller
(West Gate Lodge No, 335)
Paul i ne D. Myers
Freda Nielsen
Bertha C. Pixton
Arthur P. & Jennette G. Pratt (Larchmont Lodge No, 614)
Gladys E. Reuter
Mildred E. Roller
Emma BI anchl! Ruedy
Dwight E. Salisbury
(Golden Rule Lodge No. 479)
Dorothy Schneider
Arthur J. Slaght
Hulda Snyder
David B. Spector
(Menorah Lodge No. 623)
Mabel Spencer
Emma M. Sprinkel
Hamilton 0, Sprinkel
(Live Oak Lodge No. 61)
James R. Troy
Beulah M, Turner
Joseph I ne Westerburg
Laura B. Wright

San Joaquin
John E, Oerter
Order of OeMolay, Palomar Chapter
Pinole Lodge No. 353, F.&A.M.
Wesley O, Rodbury
Jessie B. Pingel
San Gabriel Valley Shrine Club
Santa Fe Employees Club

STUDENT Al 0 FUND
Ml SC:

307

California State Craft of National Federated Craft

Ml SC:

A. & A. s. R., Los Angeles Bodies
Ray R, Adams
Rose Black
Mr, & Mrs. Burgmaler
Lucian Farland, Sr.
Evelyn B. Houghton
Job's Daughter, Bethe 1 169
Job's Daughter, Bethel 207
Kathryn M. Krauskopf
Mr. & Mrs, Hy Kromgard
Henry L. Lee, Jr.
Masonic Masters & Wardens Association

Donald B. McClellan
Mrs, C. E. Metcalf
Wittlngton R. & Elaine A. Miller
1971 Matrons & Patrons of Northern
San Joaquin
Pinole Lodge No, 353, F.&A.M.
Ml ldred R. Parsons
Charlotte M. Silva
Mrs. Edward W. Silva
Helen Grace Smith
Starllghters Club of Semper Fidel is
#135, O.E.S.

of San Francisco

DECOTO REDEVELOPMENT FUND
Ml SC:

Azalea Shrine No, 47, W.S.J.

26,811.51
20,000.00
I ,000 .oo
5,700,00
4,959.03
1,000.00
13,354.25
5,000,00
22.10
78,815.59
1,000,00
2, 726.36
450.30
4, 172.04
96,969.33
I, 702.48
3, 119. 10
571.39
5,348,90
3,705.60
10,000.00
35 ,898.81
108 ,804. 75
436.90
300.00
9,000.00
5 ,000.00
100.00
8, 100.00
10,918,50
12,526.91
156.04
21.25
15,567.21
12,434.60

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

CHRISTMAS ANO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE

309

CHRISTMAS ANO ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
(continued)

The Trustees of the Hasonic Homes acknowledge with appreciation the contributions
received from:
Eastern Star and Amaranth

Knights Templar Commanderies
Sacramento No. 2

San Luis Obispo No. 27

Palo Alto No. 47

Roya I Arch Masons Chapters
Nevada No. 6
Hanford No. 74

Palo Al to No. 93
Sebastopol No. 117

32nd Roya I Arch 0 is tr i ct
Whittier No. 91
Montebello No. 137
Huntington Park No. 127
Downey No. 157

Altadena Chapter No. 52.6, 0. E. S.
Atascadero Chapter No. 344, O. E. S,
Crystal Chapter No. 57, O. E. S.
Kailua Lanikai Chapter No, 9, 0. E. S.
Mendias Ray Chapter No. 210, O. E. S.
Mercedes Chapter No. 126, O. E. S.
Miguelito Chapter No. 176, O. E. S.
1956 Matrons Association of
Monterey Bay, o. E. S.
Past Matrons, ldlewild Chapter O. E. S.

Past Matrons Club, Triangle Chapter No. 456
0. E. S.
Past Hatrons and Past Patrons, O. E. S.

Santa Cruz
Pinole Chapter No, 220, o. E. s.
San Rafael Chapter No. 215, 0, E. S.
Starlette Club No. 375, O. E. S.
Torrance Chapter No. 380, O. E. S.
Worthy Matrons and Patrons, Kailua, Hi. O.E.S.

Hi see 11 aneous
A.

&

A. S. R. (Bodies)
Burlingame

Sacramento

Fresno

San Diego

Oak land

San Jose

Di strict Officers Associations

219th District
306th District
32lst District

530th District
538th District
635th District

Masonic Clubs
Danish Masonic Club of
Southern Ca 1 i forn i a
Department of Transportation
Hasonic Club, San Diego

Downey Shrinettes
East Whittier Compass Club
Five Points Club, Sun City
Happy Hirams Hi-12 No. 263
Long Beach Masonic CI ub
Los AI i sos Mob i I e Home Estates

Masonic Club of Leisure World
1971 Club of East Bay, Albany
Pomona High Twe Ive No. 309
San Franc 1sco Square CI ub
11 633" Club, Ventura
South Coast Square & Compass Club
Sun City Masonic Club
Valencia Shrine Club, Anaheim

OeMolay, Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls, Order of Golden Slipper
OeMolay, Kerman Chapter
OeMolay, Orange Coast Chapter
OeMo lay, Rosev 111 e Chapter
Job's Daughters, Bethe I 29
Job's Daughters, Bethe I 112
Job's Daughters, Bethe I 154
Job's Daughters, Bethe I 161
Job's Daughters, Bethe I 245
Job's Daughters, Bethe I 346
Order of Golden Slipper,
Beth Chapter
Order of Golden Slipper,
He Chapter
Order of Golden Slipper,
Pe Chapter
Order of Golden Slipper
Samech Chapter

Order of Go Iden S Ii per,
Shin Chapter
Order of Golden Slipper,
Zayin Chapter
Rainbow Girls No. 3
Ra i nbow Gi r ls No, 6
Rainbow ~irls No. 43
Rainbow Girls No. 86
Rainbow Ji rls No. 91
Rainbow Girls No. 143
Rainbow GI rl s No. 148
Rainbow Girls No. 152
Rainbow Girls No. 249
Warren OeHo lay Hot her 1 s Club

AOQUI P, Azusa
Hazel M, Aid
American Fl Int Glass Workers Union,
Lo ca I No. 705
Floyd Bennett
Earl Bond
Clifton C. Booth
C. E. Bradley
Roy w. Brook
Mr. & Mrs, H. P. Brown
Lois Brunette
E. E. Bull
Ella M. Cavanaugh
Charter Oak School Oist,P.T.A., Covina
Denis Chelmis
Charles E. Cline
Rosemary Cox

Al ice Dunn
Mr. & Mrs. Jt Eastman
Egg Ii Nursery
Lloyd Ferrell
Henry & Adele Freulich
Alta Mary Gammie
James A. Gift
Julian Goldsmith
De II a Ha rps ter
Mr. & Mrs. C. s. Hearn
Herald-Examiner, Los Angeles
Arthur J. Hoffman
Mr, & Mrs. J, E. Hollady
Gordon Ho II i ngsworth
Earl G. Horning
ICAAL Corp., San Diego
Frances A. Johns
Hr. & Hrs. Sam Jones
L. J. Kenyon

Charles Kraal

Mr. & Hrs. Frank Kroboth

John Leona rd
Long Beach Bible Class
Earl J. Lyttle
E Ileen McCarthy
William McCormick
Mrs. Jimmie B, Mclean
Herman H. Meinke

LI II i an Me I bin
Wi 111 am M. Mohr
Menton Neggen
Mr, & Mrs. L. w. Neeley
Margaret E, Pafenbach
John H. Peters
Dorothy L. Peterson
Pharmasea l Laboratories
Lee Prinslow

Frank H. Reeves
Mr, & Mrs. Bud Retzloff
Mary M. Savage
Eric G, Scholz
Richard G, Shaler
Hardin Simpson

Soroptomist Club
Fred A. Spencer
Grace E. Stofle
Cy Thomas
Robert B. Thompson
Ted Toogood
Travelodge M, P. Social Club
Veterans Chari tab le Assoc,, Englewood
Forrest Waltz
The Westerners

Mr. & Mrs. H. Wilson
Charles A. Wi Ison
Robert E. Wood

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
(continued)

LODGES
Cal I fornla No.
Tehama No. 3
Yount No. 12
Eureka No. 16
La Parfaite Union No. 17
Washington No. 20
Hawaii an No. 21
Had i son No. 23
Trinity No. 27
Golden Gate Speranza No. 30
San D lf90 No. 35
Santa Cruz No. 38
Hount Hori ah No. 44
Union No. 58
Enterprl se No. 70
Humboldt No. 79
Orovi 1 le No. 103
Arcata No. 106
Chico No. 111
Eden No. 113
Fidelity No. 120
Alamo No. 122
Lafayette No. 126
Hermann No. 127
Lebanon-Pacific No. 136
Park-Crockett No. 139
Franklln No. 143
Oriental No. 144
Woodland No. 156
Redwood City No. 168
Mission No. 169
Antioch No. 175
Harin No. 191
Mountain View No. 194
Wi lmlngton No. 198
Sllveyvllle No. 201
Stanislaus No. 206
King David's No. 209
Friendship No. 210
South San Francisco No. 212
Oak Grove No. 215
Roseville No. 222
Bakersfield No. 224
San Hateo No. 226
Athens No. 228
Hi I ls Ferry No. 236
Guadalupe No. 237
Santa Ana No. 241
Lau re 1 No. 245
Pomona No. 246
Read I ng No. 254

Lompoc No. 262
Hesperlan No.264
Orland No. 265
Galt No. 267
Arroyo No. 274
Hanford No. 279
Madera No. 280
South West No. 283
Paso Robles No. 286
East Gate No. 290
Orange Grove No. 293
Liberty No. 299
Redlands No. 300
Ontario No. 30 I
Azusa No. 305
Ashlar No. 306
Monrovia No. 308
Temescal No. 314
Norwalk-Euclid No. 315
Redondo No. 328
Fruit1Gle No. 336
Palo Al to No. 346
McKinley No. 347
Sequoia No. 349
Hi 11 Valley No. 356
Amity-Sea 1 Rock No. 370
Brotherhood No. 375
Francis Drake No. 376
Artesia No. 377
Hi zpah No. 378
Fl 1 lmore No. 379
Parnassus-Presidio No. 388
Ba Ider No. 393
University No. 394
Rising Light No. 397
Burl i ngame No. 400
Verba Buena No. 403
Honeta No. 405
La Hes a No. 407
Honolulu No. 409
Lindsay No. 416
Taft Midway No. 426
San Dimas No. 428
Alpha No . 431
Standard No. 440
Coronado No. 44 I
Blackmer No. 442
Torrance No. 447
Haunt Diablo No. 448
Argonaut-Argonne No. 461
Paul Revere No. 462

Libertas No. 466
Rockridge No . 468
Delta No. 471
Thousand Oaks No. 478
Golden Rule No. 479
Ht. Davidson No. 481
East Bay No. 489
Woodstock No. 491
Acorn No, 494
Capital Ci ty No. 499
Roosevelt No.500
Point No. 503
EI Segundo No. 50 7
Cupertino No. 510
George Washington No. 525
Ascot No. 538
Shattuck-Stephens No. 541
San Gabriel No. 546
Semper VI rens No. 552
Point Firmin No. 558
S.W. Hackett No. 574
Compass No. 590
Tuj unga No. 592
Service No. 594
Alexander Graham Bel I
Dimond No. 603
Glassel I Park No. 6o5
Prov i dent No. 609
Neptune No. 619
Riverside No. 635
Pal I sades No. 637
A.F .E. Irwin No. 645
Damascus No. 648
Henry Knox No. 662
San Gorgonlo No. 668
Carme 1 No. 680
&os Palos No. 681
Albany No. 686
Oi ldale No. 688
San Carlos No. 690
Indian Wells Valley No. 691
Estero No. 719
He reed No. 749
Clayton Valley No. 756
West Covina No . 758
Josiah W. Roller No. 761
Coaatside No, 762
James H. Kew No. 766
Tejon ·No. 773
East Whittier No. 776
Gemini No. 825

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

GENERAL. APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Standing Committees ........................................... 312
Special Committees ..... ..... ................... ...... ......... 317
Constitutional Boards

.......................................... 321

Masonic Homes Board ......................................... 322
California Masonic Memorial Temple ............................. 323
California Masonic Foundation ................................... 323
Registration and Mileage Payments ..................... ..... ..... 324
List of Constituent Lodges ...................................... 352
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations ........... .... ........... 372
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization ................... 382
List of Inspectors ........ ................ ........ .. . ..... ... ... 390
Foreign Grand Lodges ....................... ... ................ 394
Alphabetical List of Lodges ..................................... 401
Correspondence Report Announcement ........... . ................ 410
Index

..... : .................................... ... .......... 411

312

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STANDING COMMITTEES
JURISPRUDENCE
Leo E. Anderson (355) . . ... . . .......... .... 333 So. Hope St., 35th Fl. , Los Angeles 90017
Carl H. Allen (388) .. . . ...... ....... . . ...... ... City Hall, Room 450, San Francisco 94102
Guy Reynolds (95) ..... .... . .. ..... .. . .. . . .......... . . .. . . ........ Sutter Creek 95685
James W. Halley (375) ............... . ........... ... .. .529 W. Poplar, San Mateo 94402
Herbert Hargrave , Jr. (467) . . ........................... 8105 Verna Dr., Van Nuys 91402
Laurence E. Dayton (61) . .. . ... . ......... . ........ .. .. 5862 Moraga Ave ., Oakland 94611
Alfred J. Mccourtney (437) . . ....... . . . ... . .. . ......... . 3108 Menlo Dr., Glendale 91208
Charles F. Howard (355) ...... ... . ... .. . .... .. . ... 518 S. Arden Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Tracy J. Priest (698) .. ...... . . ........ ...... ......... 51 E. Foothill Blvd., Arcadia 91006

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Theodore Meriam (111) .. .. . . ........... ..... ......... .. .713 Arbutus Ave., Chico 95926
Eugene S. Hopp (260) . .. .... ......... ......... . 2000 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 94109
Gilbert A. Benoit (260) ........ ......... . 1880 Pacific Ave., Apt. 504, San Francisco 94109
Frank P. Lemen (613) .. . . . .. ... . .... . .. .. . .. . . ........ .932-42nd St ., Sacramento 95819
Harlan P. Huebner (445) ...... . ......... 900 Wilshire Blvd., Suite 1000, Los Angeles 90017
Donald R. Fretz (99) ..... . .............................. 2806 Tahoe Dr., Merced 95340
William H. Price (259) . .... . .... . .. . .. . ...... . . .. ......... P.O. Box 72, Riverside 92502
Richard D. Rohland (545) . .. . . ... . ..... . . . . . . ... ....... 26 Sea View Dr., Pittsburg 94565
Joe Beranek (797) . . ......... . . . . .. . . ....... ... .4585 Round Top Dr., Los Angeles 90065
Ellsworth Meyer (677) . .. . ..... ........ . . .. ... 229-A Avenida Majorca, Laguna Hills 92653
(Member Emeritus)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

313

CREDENTIALS
J. Glen Gladson (542) ... . ..... . ...... 12250 Magnolia Blvd ., No . 6, North Hollywood 91607
George D. Shepard (715) . . .................. .. . . ... 3005 Altura Ave., La Crescenta 91214
Robert vanHeekeren (673) .................... . ..... . 2258-28th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Stanford Fong (549) . .................... . .. . 1445 Larkin St., Apt. 5, San Francisco 94109
John J . Cama (500) ........ ..... ......... . 3201 Gough St., Apt. 301, San Francisco 94123
Jam1<s M. Dow (299) . ... . .. . . .... ... . .... . . ..... 2621 Monticello Way , Santa Clara 95051
Robert L. Hiatt (535) ... . . . . . .. . ... . .. . .... ... ...... 504 W. Wilson Ave., Glendale 91203

PAY OF MEMBERS
E. Lloyd Hanson (494) ...• . . .. ....... . ... ........ ... 1175 Wellington St., Oakland 94602
Dean H. Dewhurst (479) . .' .. .... . . .......... ..... ..... P.O. Box 174 , Moffitt Field 94035
Jacob M. Kartzinel (520) ... .... ......... . . .... . . .8879 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles 90035
Edward A. Fromsky (42) ......................... 1031 N. Laurel Ave., Los Angeles 90046
Ted R. Siems (357) ... . .. .... ............. ... ........ 1128 W. North St., Anaheim 92801
Kenneth T . Bartley (494) ....... . ... . .............. .. .. .. ... .341 Pacific, Alameda 94501
Robert M. Mueller (124) ................. . .... ... Box G, 5757 Almond St., Paradise 95969

CHARTERS
Kenneth Hemphill (728) . ........ . . ....... . ........... P.O. Box 4022, Long Beach 90804
Frank Homer (666) . ... .. . .. . . . .................... 1201 W. La Veta Ave., Orange 92668
Harry L. Maynard (214) .... . . . ....... .. ...... . .. . . . . 5448 Bryn Mawr Dr., Ventura 93003
Marvin F. Reno (586) ... ... . .... . . . . ... 12092 Adrian St., Bldg. 5, Apt. IOI, Garden Grove
92640
Robert 0 . West (26) ......... . .. . ....... .. . . .......... . .P.O. Box 752, Placerville 95667
Lincoln B. Grayson (560) ............................. 1950 Redwood Dr., Martinez 94553
Laurence Drivon (471) ...... . ............... . ...... 3034 N. American St., Stockton 95204

FINANCE
John A. Sickenberger (392) ... ... ...... .. . ...... Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
John C. Wiesner (144) . ... . . ...... .. . ... . . . .. ...... .49 Lake Forest Dr., Daly City 94015
Oran 0. Bridges (776) .. .. .............................. 11910 Kibbee , La Mirada 90638
Joseph H. Horn (672) .. .. . . ......... . ... . ... . ........ P.O. Box 928 , Laguna Beach 92652
Robert Rouch (294) . . ..... . . .. . . . ... . .. .. ..... .. .. .. . . 2165-18th Ave., Kingsburg 93631
Adrian C. West (489) .. . . ....... ...... . .. .. . . ....... 1444 Via Loma, Walnut Creek 94596
Jack L. William (5) .. .. . ..... .......... ....... . . .. ........ . 115 Yale Ct., Vallejo 94590

BY-LAWS
Charles H. Grace (635) .... . .... .. .......... . ... . .. . . .4210 Highland Pl. , Riverside 92506
Robert A. Wertsch (22) ... . .......... ..... ....... 90 San Benito Way, San Francisco 94127
Donald M. Binkerd (693) . .. . .. . ... . .. ........ .4704 Sunny Dunes Rd ., Palm Springs 92262
John B. Morgan (259) . ...... .. .......... . ............ 3564 Ramona Dr., Riverside 92506
Richard L. Riemer (778) .. . . .... ......... . . 1212 N. Broadway, Suite 204, Santa Ana 92701
Richaril L. Kramer (260) .... . . ... . . ... . .. ....... .. .865 Elizabeth St., San Francisco 94114
Nathan Sommer (520) .. .......... ....... . . ....... 1623 S. Sherbourne, Los Angeles 90035

GRIEVANCES
Harold S . Morrison (450) . .. .. . . . ......... . .. . .... 14615 Magnolia Blvd., Van Nuys 91403
Melville H. Nahin (520) .... . .. ......... . . .. .... . .6399 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
F . Jose deLarios (376) . ...... . . ....... ........ .... 355 Erica Dr., So . San Francisco 94080
George R. Grosz (775) . ........ ....... . . ... . . .... 617 So. Hwy. IOI, Solano Beach 92075
Allen B. Gresham (348) ..... . . .. . ........ .. . . 3028 Muscupiabe Dr., San Bernardino 92405
Philip J . Davis (339) .. ... ....... .... .. ... . . . .... . .... . 1864 Conejo Ln ., Fullerton 92633
Duke D. Rouse (348) ... . ........ ... ..... ... ...... . .. 7934 Midhurst Dr., Highland 92346

CORRESPONDENCE
J. Wilson Getsinger (518) .. ....... .. . ...... .... ...... .. . .. P.O. Box 442, La Jolla 92037
Herbert B. Blanks (680) .. ......... ......... ..... ......... . P.O. Box 241 , Carmel 93921
Charles S. Barrett (587) . .. . . .... . . . . .... . . . . ... 3370'h San Marino St., Los Angeles 90006
Robert L. Nolan, Jr. (660) .. ... . .. ...... . ........ 714 Evanwood Ave ., West Covina 91790
Clarence B. Hart (626) ... . ........ . . . ................ 248 Minot Ave., Chula Vista 92010
Raymond F . Zahm (203) ... . .... . ..... .. . ............... .2010 Marsalla, Monterey 93940
Robert W. Orr (418) ... . . . ... . ......... .. .. . . . .... 1840 Winona Ave., Los Angeles 90027

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

315

GRAND 'LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES

PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Joseph F. Garriott (630) ............................. 3844-19th Ave., San Francisco 94132
Kenneth C. Birnbaum (120) .... , .................... 845 Sloat Blvd., San Francisco 94132
Bernie J. Katz (120) ................................ 1864-28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Frederick A. Wilson (356) .................................. 306-4th St., Sausalito 94966
Ben A. Katz (344) ................................. 2166-47th Ave., San Francisco 94116
Robert W. Moore (30) ........................... 367 Lakeshore Dr., San Francisco 94132
John J. Dunn (470) .................................. 618-28th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Arthur C. Kuersten (370) ............................ 1771-47th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Lester F. Anderson (260) ..................... 1240 Pennsylvania Ave., San Francisco 94107
Stanford C. Lee (549) ................................ 1078 Clay St., San Francisco 94108
Albert Miller, Jr. (562) ....... ·.... .'.................. 457 Oxford St., San Francisco 94134
Donald S. Day (651) ................... .. .......... 296 Elwood St., Redwood City 94062
Louis G. Schaich (554) ............. . ................ 2865 Army St., San Francisco 94110
Vernon C. Harp (458) ........................... .4141 Geary Blvd., San Francisco 94118
(Consultant)

Ray L. Peterson (667) ................................... P.O. Box 6757, Burbank 91510
Julian Wolf (529) ........... , ............... 9060 Santa Monica Blvd., Los Angeles 90069
Raymond A. Ceniceros (771) ................................... Box 75, Skyforest 92385
Kenneth B. Conklin (616) ........................... 4858 Pearce Ave., Long Beach 90808
Milton M. Rubin (623) ............. . ......... 2141 W. Washington St., Los Angeles 90014
Hiram W. Underwood (703) ......................... 27605 Al Vesta Pl., San Pedro 90732
William E. Zimmerman (58) ............................. 3959-57th St., Sacramento 95820
Henry N. Sante (500) ............................... 703 Mruk.et St., San Francisco 94103
Phillip C. Reiner (264) ..................... .. ......... 1414 S. Miller, Santa Maria 93454
William W. Danyluk (544) ............................ 2645 Hollister Ter., Glendale 91206
Dean L. Shively (104) ............................. 3348 Lexington Ave., El Monte 91731
Rodger D. Siems (615) ................................. 28012 Warren Rd., Hemet 92343
Raymond C. Reeder (384) ................................... 1572 Elm, El Centro 92243
Darron E. Davis (431) ................................... .425-36th St., Richmond 94805
Harry E. Hiraoka (277) ............................. 6232 S. Leonard Ave., Fowler 93625
Jerome S. Goldberg (335) ........................ 4401 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90010
Donald R. Kidder (479) ...................... Rt. 3, Box 436, Metcalf Rd., San Jose 95121
Michael S. Hansen (626) ............................... 884 Crest Dr., Chula Vista 92010
Howard S. Fisher (620) ........................... .4741 Wilshire Blvd., San Diego 92109
Lafayette W. Mead (12) ..................................... I Newell Cir., Napa 94558
J. R. Thrasher (419) ................................. 906 No. Euclid Ave., Upland 91786
Donald H. Slater (111) ...................................... P.O. Box 298, Chico 95927
Dick I. Bega (623) ............................... .5550 W. 63rd St., Los Angeles 90056
Lee A. Branch (251) .............................. 2019 So. Towner St., Santa Ana 92707
Kermit C. King (286) ................................. 1435 Vine St., Paso Robles 93446
Abe C. Goertzen (309) ..................................... P.O. Box 908, Delano 93215
Lester Prater (591) ................................. 15594 So. Sexton St., Escalon 95320
Ernest L. Beck (575) ....................... .. ............ P.O. Box 62, McArthur 96056
Milton G. Kite (281) .................................... P.O. Box 1030, Redding 96001
Oscar Anderson (481) ........................... 185 Graystone Ter., San Francisco 94114
(Consultant)

LODGE FINANCING
Keith V. Johnson (655) .............................. 247 E. Scott St., Long Beach 90805
Fung Chow Chan (587) ........................ 2208 Silver Lake Blvd., Los Angeles 90039
George W. Sturm (254) .................................. 3410 Scenic Dr., Redding 9600!
Robert W. Campini (564) .............. . ......... 1801-6 Skycrest Dr., Walnut Creek 94595
Burdett J. McKinnis (58) .................. . 555 Capitol Mall, Suite 1125, Sacramento 95814
George C. Barrett (99) ......................... 881 E. No. Bear Creek Dr., Merced 95340
Clinton J. Meadway (447) ................................ P.O. Box "J", Torrance 90507
Peter Lemos (754) ................................ 2425 Manchester Dr., San Pablo 94806
Roy F. Slate (384) ....................................... 1582 Pepper, El Centro 92243

NECROLOGY
Arthur Dvorin (639) .............................. .454 S. Detroit St., Los Angeles 90036
Richard W. Rylander (579) ............................. 333 Watt Ave., Sacramento 95821
Calvin G. Shores (301) ................................. 620 East "H" St., Ontario 91764
Raymond J. Edwards (336) .............................. I 920-l08th Ave., Oakland 94603
Spencer A. Price (670) ................................. 13858 Russell St., Whittier 90603

RITUAL
H. Douglas Lemons (699) .......... , ................. 2958 Daneland St., Lakewood 90712
Burton 0. Young (336) .................................... II Wendy Ln., Orinda 94563
Edward E. Seagle (730) .............................. 6024 Tahoe Way, Sacramento 95817
Ulysses G. Patropulos (260) .................... 1360 Leavenworth St., San Francisco 94109
Vernon L. Gordon (508) ........................... 25320 Skaggs Ave., Tranquility 93668
George W. Perlcins (378) ............................ 7059 Costello Ave., Van Nuys 91405
Ernest M. Newton (296) ............... . ........... .4235 Bernadine Pl., San Diego 92115

MASONIC HISTORY
Fred 0. Sherrill (237) ............................. 324 Poppinga Way, Santa Maria 93454
John C. Whitfield (581) ........................... 1761 Las Robles Dr., Bakersfield 93306
Robert L. Hirt (810) .................................... 6351 Glen Aire, Riverside 92506
Samuel W. Ballinger (824) .................... . ... 10 N. Glenbrook Ave., Camarillo 93010
Richard J. Oesterman (17) .............................. 23 Sierra Way, San Rafael 94901
Richard E. Dunn (732) .............................. 6131 Vernal Way, Carmichael 95628
Ross W. Seton (358) .............. . ................. 2225 S. Catalina, Los Angeles 90007

MASONIC INFORMATION AND RESPONSIBILITY
William F. Poynter (545) ....................... 1200 Monterey Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Louis I. Goldkind (120) ............................ 98 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132
Max H. Rush, Jr. (812) ................................ 12925 Joshua Ln., Norwalk 90650
C. Clifford Geddes (19) ......................................... 935 Daisy, Lodi 95240
Herbert W. Cahn (120) .................. 705 Shelter Creek Ln., Apt. 350, San Bruno 94066
William J. Berry (710) .................................. 3400 Jackson St., Oxnard 93030
Wayne C. Bates (334) ........................ 1141 W. Rowland Ave., West Covina 91790
Norman E. Hale (574) ............................... 6012 Lomand Dr., San Diego 92120
David C. Lee (492) ........................................ Box 366, Wrightwood 92397
Phillip B. Stone (727) ................................. 1007 Bethany Rd., Burbank 91504
Don Brent (254) ....................................... 5701 Fagon Dr., Redding 96001
Everett J. G. Chapman (609) .......................... 3021-23rd Ave., Sacramento 95820
Emmet L. McLachlan (198) ......................... 18801 Lahmon Ln., Fort Bragg 95437
James C. Tario (552) ....................................... 2812 Eye St., Eureka 95501
Samuel K. Krasner (442) ............. . .... . ............. 5665 Linfield, San Diego 92120
James B. Madrid (290) ................................ 647 Isabel St., Los Angeles 90065

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT

SPECIAL COMMITTEES

Jack F. Bowley (370) ................ ..... ...... . ....... 94 Melanie Ln., Atherton 94025
John A. Sickenberger (392) ... ... ..... ..... . . .. Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
Arthur Linsk (529) . ... .. ... .... ... ... .. ... .. ...... 6357 Colgate Ave., Los Angeles 90048
Chester R. MacPhee (455) ........... . ... .... ............ 450 Fairway Dr., Novato 94947
M. Richard Andrews (242) .............. .. ...... . 1000 Via Tranquila, Santa Barbara 93110
Robert H. Mason (584) .... ...... ...... . ......... .. 19 Rue Cannes, Newport Beach 92660
Advisor:
Paul A. Pflueger (370) .... ....... . ....... ....... ..... Mills Building, San Francisco 94104

317

CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
James I. Mendenhall (741) .. .... ....... .. ......... .. ... 9461 Raviller Dr., Downey 90240
Warren L. Bacon (343) ...... .. . ... .. ................. 13533 Branford St., Pacoima 91331
Earle C. Arbuckel (111) .. ............ . . . .. . .. . ......... 384 E. Washington , Chico 95926
Wiley T. Killingsworth (699) .............. . .. .. . ... .4155 Walnut Ave., Long Beach 90807
James E. Calhoun (442) ..... .. . .... .. ..... ..... .. 1455 Holbrook Ave., Los Angeles 90041
Stuart M. Cowan (598) ................ ... .... 1650 Ala Moana Blvd., Honolulu, Hi. 96815
Melvin Baer (520) . .. . . ..... ..... .. . ... .... .... 10577 Wellworth Ave., Los Angeles 90024
Eugene M. Owen (407) . . ...... . ... ......... ..... . .. .. 5137 Pirotte Dr., San Diego 92105
Carl Delaney (789) ... .... . .. .... ...... .. ...... . . ... . .. 2593 Sunrise Dr., Fairfield 94533
John E. Neff (194) .. ....... ...... .... ...... .. 1225 Vienna Dr., Sp. 344, Sunnyvale 94086
Boyd 0 . Kearney (352) ..... ... ....... . .......... .. 9650 Laramie Ave., Chatsworth 91311
Franklin B. Brasfield (791) .. . .. .. .. . ..... . . ... .. ............ . . Box 15, Rosamond 93560
James Tomasini (254) ...... .. .... ... ... . ........ . ... Rt. 3, Box 321F, Cottonwood 96022
Dean Aune (253) ....... .... ......... . ......... . ..... .... Rt. l, Box 177, Esparto 95627
James W. Shattock (244) .... ..... ...... ... ......... . .. 1815 Miner Ave., San Pablo 94806
Eugene Gregg (533) ... ..... ..... ...... .... . . .... 707 W. Woodcrest Ave., Fullerton 92632
Robert E. Moffitt (659) ......... . ............... . ... .. 1511 W. Mikinda, La Habra 90631
Leo W. Weiner (623) .. ... ..... . ...... . .......... 8401 Allenwood Rd ., Los Angeles 90046
Morton Tooredman (529) .... .. ......... ....... ... 14340 Chandler Blvd., Van Nuys 91401
Herman G. Geller (42) .............. ....... .... .. 865 Comstock Ave., Los Angeles 90024

TAXATION
W. Stanley Davis (144) .... ................... .. ..... 678-26th Ave., San Francisco 94121
Alexander L. Croce (388) .... .... ... .. .. .. ... .. 333 Santa Clara Ave ., San Francisco 94127
David Poole (241) . , ..... . ........ .. ... . ... ......25532 Grissom Rd., Laguna Hills 92653

COLUMBIA TEMPLE
Gerald A. Sharer (417) .. .. .. . .... ...... ..... .. .. .. .. . P.O. Box 775, Angels Camp 95222
George A. Jurgens (491) .... .... ....... ..... ..... ..... ..... 942 Park St., Alameda 94501
Donald M. Stewart (8) ........ .. ... . ............. . ....... Box 308, Chinese Camp 95309
John Menzies (24) .... ....... . ....... . . ... ...... .... ...... Shell Station, Mariposa 95328
Phil V. Dybdal (275) .... .. ... . . ............ .. ... ... .2618 Tim Bell Rd., Wateford 95386

YOUTH ACTIVITIES
Edgar Gumpel (442) .. .. ..... ... . . ........ .... ... ..... . .4787-54th St., San Diego 92115
Karl Neumann (806) . . . .... ...... .... ...... ..... ..... 1226 Los Angeles Ave., Simi 93065
Wallace Wright (799) . ..... . . ..... .... ...... ..... .... ... 5249 Cole St., San Diego 92117
J. Elmer Starr (486) ... ........ .. .. ............. 2616 Lomita Verde Dr., Bakersfield 93305
Michael L. Manhan (528) ......... ... ... ... .. ........ 2107 Arbutus, Newport Beach 92625
Vernon Osborn (595) .. . .. .................. ... ... 22315 Erwin St., Woodland Hills 91364
George C. Stackhouse (584) .. . ...................... 8965 Vossler Ave., South Gate 90280
Richard H. Kelly (296) ...... .. ......... ... ...... 6532 Bantam Lake Cir., San Diego 92119
Robert Stephen Doan (548) ............ . .... 12735 Caswell Ave., No. 8, Los Angeles 90066
Yahl P. Clernensen (68) ............... . ... . . . ...... 118 W. Loretta Ave., Stockton 95207
Robert Lintner (169) .. .... ...... .. ............ . .... 2087-33rd Ave., San Francisco 94116

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Edwin S. Hodges (730) ................................ 309 Woodcrest, Sacramento 95821
Emil Laversi n (I) .... . ............... .... ......... 2345 Lawton St ., San Francisco 94122
Robert Thomas Yarbray (546) ......... . ........ . ..... 8309 Beverly Dr., San Gabriel 91775
George Hilla (693) . ... . . ............ . ........... . .. .. P.O. Box 516, Palm Springs 92263
Harvey Solochek (721) ... . .. . ..................... . . . ... 4509 Collada Pl., Tarzana 91356
Mochiu Ishida (506) . .. . ... .. . . .. ................ 1903 Curtis Ave., Redondo Beach 90278
Harold A. Macy (769) . ..... . ..... . . .. . .. . ........ ..... . . 2127 East Q-2, Palmdale 93550
Ralph Manning (675) .......... .. . ... . . . .. . .. .............. 1204 Clifton, Modesto 95350
Edward Carpenter (366) ....... ......... . ........ ..... . ..... 941 East Yale, Fresno 93704
Leonard Green (217) . .. ....... ....... . ....... . .. . . . 136 Sea Foam Ave., Monterey 93940
George E. Frank (388) . .. .. . . . . . ... ....... . .... IOI Forest View Dr., San Francisco 94132
Leroy Brown (245) ... .. . .. . .. ..... .. ................ . Rt. I, Box 1320, Butte City 95920
Russel E. Hanis (16) ... . ... . ... . . . ........... . .. . ...... . . 146 Carey Dr. , Auburn 95603
Robert Watkins (732) ..................... . ... . ... 6507 Templeton Dr., Cannichael 95608
Richard Rees (37) ........ .. .... ... ..... . ............... 108 So . Broadway, Yreka 96097
Byron B. Bolting (187) ....... . .. . .... . . ........ .6590 Redwood Retreat Rd ., Gilroy 95020
Hartford L. Rutan (756) . .... . ...... .. . . ................ . . 1719 West St., Concord 94521
Morris W. Cecil (719) . ... . .. . ... ... . ........ . ....... ... 2622 Studio Dr., Cayucos 93430
Robert W. Laversin (I) ..... .... .. ................ . .. 10387 Anson Ave . , Cupertino 95014

COMMERCIALISM
Richard Robbins (445) ... .. . . . ................. . . 3250 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90010
Clarence Guffey (283) . . ....... . .. ...... 10770 Jamacha Blvd., Sp. 67 , Spring Valley 92077
Roy E. Roswunn (504) . . . ... . ... ....... . .......... .4357 Boyar Ave ., Long Beach 90807
Alfred B. Collier (40) ........... .. . . .......... .. ... 2777 Harkness St. , Sacramento 95818
Robert A. Simon (614) .... . .... . ... . . . .. . ... . ... . .... . 1726 So. 3rd Ave., Arcadia 91006
George W. Nelson (349) ..... . ........................ 3926 Mylinda Dr., San Jose 95132

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

319

CEMETERIES
John M. Swan (687) . .... . ..................... . ..... 1506 Oak Dr., Sp. 49, Vista 92083
Basil R. Gillett (124) . .... . ........... . . . .. . .... . ..... 5362 Newland Rd ., Paradise 95969
Buck R. Nelson (8) ....... . ................ . . . . . . . ... . P.O. Box 2390, Sacramento 95811
Hugh M . Kellogg (391) . ............... .. .. . .. ... .. .. .. . ... . . Box 893, Tuolumne 94279
Thomas L. Fausone (76) .. .. . . ..... . .. . . . .. .. 564 Mountain Ranch Rd ., San Andreas 95249

BOARD OF LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS
Haig D. Soghomonian (169) . . ............. ....... . .. 1925-17th Ave ., San Francisco 94116
C . John Bellman, Jr. (541) ....... . ..... .. . . . .... .3216 Camino Colorados, Lafayette 94549
Lewis B. Meek (605) ..... . ........ . .......... . . . ... 6367 Church St., Los Angeles 90042
Stanley A. Butera (545) .. . .... ......... 805 Leavenworth St. , Apt. 410, San Francisco 94109
William Kludjian (352) . . ... .. ................ ....... .. . .. 8426 S . Laurel , Whittier 90605
Harold E. Kilian (388) . . ........ . .. . ..... .. ......... 2506-28th Ave ., San Francisco 94116
Clyde M . Stine (560) . . . .. ... . .. . .. . . . . . . . ........... 444-15th Ave ., San Francisco 94118
William H. Scott (435) . . ... ............... .. . . 335 Buckingham Way, San Francisco 94127
(Assistant Librarian)

AUDITING
George T. Rowse (191) ... ............. . . . .... .2 Valleygreen, Oakmont, Santa Rosa 95404
Paul M. Porter (480) ...... . ... . ............. 429 Sunset Rd. , South Shore, Alameda 95401
Ralph E. Pfeiffer (481) ........ . .. . . ... . . ...... .28 Meadowbrook Dr., San Francisco 94132

PUBLIC INFORMATION

RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN

Hugh J. Cameron (650) .............. . .... . 424 S. Broadway, Rm . 4!0, Los Angeles 90013
Warren D. Hanson (1135) .... . ........ . ..... . 1131 Compass Ln. , No . 315, Foster City 94404
Kem H . Copeland (535) ............... .. . .... .. . .. . 1223 Swarthmore Dr. , Glendale 91206
Jack Pettit (22) ... .. ... ........... San Francisco Marina Yacht Harbor, San Francisco 94123
F. Glendon Smythe (422) .. ... . . . ... . . ... . ............ . .400 Sequoia Dr., Pasadena 91105
John H. Brown (583) .... . . . . . ......... . . ................ .. P.O. Box 6!0, Wasco 93280
Charles A. Lewis (256) .......... . .. .. .. . . ....... . . . .. . 8832 E. Highway 12, Lodi 95240
Leslie C. Fink, Jr. (35) ...... . ..... . .. . . .... . . . .. . . . 6258 Pembroke Dr. , San Diego 92115
Oliver K. Roberts (409) . ... .......... . ..... .. . ... .99-024 Kealakaha Dr. , Aiea, Hi. 96701
Morrie C . Guss (42) ................... .. ....... 2160 Century Park E. , Los Angeles 90067

Guy B. Mize (638) . .... . .. . ...... . ............. .. ... 1238 Idlewood Rd ., Glendale 91202
Edward T . Mancuso (144) .... . ................. . .. 520 Crestlake Dr., San Francisco 94132
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) .. ...... . . .. ...... .. .. ... ... .417 Ninita Pkwy., Pasadena 91106
Jack Peloian (383) ... ... . .... . . ... .. ............... ...... . .. P.O. Box 176, Orosi 93647
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) ... . . . .... ... . .. . . .. . .. . .... P.O. Box 16003, Sacramento 95816

Donald Ingalls (542) . .......... . ...... . ... . . . .... ... . 818 Via Ondulando, Ventura 93003
William L. Funck (650) . ......... . ..... . . ....... 3711 Lankershim Blvd ., Hollywood 90028

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES
Benjamin M. Weiss (42) ......... . . ....... .. . .. . . 1491 S. Rexford Dr., Los Angeles 90035
Matthew M . Codon (42) .......... . .. .......... 530 S. Rossmore Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Benjamin Ennis (721) .................. . ............ 7027 Colbath Ave. , Van Nuys 91405
Glenn H. Harman (636) ........... ............. . . .. .4512 Natoma, Woodland Hills 91364
Rex Mincheff (506) ... . ....... . . . .. . . .......... 2684 Greenfield Ave., Los Angeles 90064

FILM PROJECTS

INSURANCE

GRAND LODGE IDSTORY PUBLICATION

Elmer C . Gunther (388) . . .... . ... .. . .......... .... .. .726-15th Ave., San Francisco 94118
John R. McKee (478) .. ....... .... . ............... . ... 183 Miramonte Dr., Moraga 94556
Alfred T. Floyd, Jr. (521) ...... ... .. ...... . ........ ... . .. 123 Orchard Rd ., Orinda 94563
Henry W. Scheuer (723) . . ... ...... . . . . . ..... . ..... .625 N. Silverada Dr. , Lafayette 94549
Peter M. Tripp (560) ........ . ........ .... ..... . . .. .. . 5878 Moraga Ave ., Oakland 94611

Edwin N. Stansel (421) .. . . .. ......... . ...... ...... P.O. Box 607 , Lake Arrowhead 92352
Charles C . Hushaw (544) ............. . . . . .. ..... ...... ... P.O . Box 591 , Burbank 91503
Raymond A. Jackson (2) .. .. ... . ..... . . . .. .. .. ... . .. ..... 1152 Willis St., Redding 96001
(Consultant)

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DE MOLA Y LIAISON BOARD

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS

Kermit A. Jacobson (599) .. . . ......... ... . .. .. . . . ... .. 417 Ninita Pkwy. , Pasadena 91106
Edward H. Siems (560) ................. . ........ 1111 California St. , San Francisco 94108
Mon Tai Luke (598) . . ..................... . ........ .. .862 Kii St., Honolulu, Hi. 96821
Richard L. Braden (40) ........ . ... . . .......... ..... Rt. I, Box 1290 H, Elk Grove 95624
George H. Himes (602) . . .. ........... .. 3995 No . Beverly Glen Blvd ., Sherman Oaks 91403
Donald B. McCaw (449) ...... . . ...... ....... ... .. .. .42 Forbes Ave., San Anselmo 94960

BICENTENNIAL COMMITTEE
Lester S. McElwain (403) .. ........ .. .. . .. . .. .. ..... . .... 1419 Broadway, Oakland 94612
Walter W. Powers (579) ...... . . ......... .... . . . . ... .. 170 Baxter Ave., Sacramento 95815
Edward G. VanPelt (778) ..... . . ..... . . ........ ...... 15509 Ocasa Ave., La Mirada 90638
Elmer P. Bromley (698) ......... .. . .. ....... .... . 3946 Wilshire Blvd. , Los Angeles 90010
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ........ . . .. . .. ........... 5300 Harbord Dr., Oakland 94618
Donald Ingalls (542) .. . .. . . . ....... .. ......... . ...... 818 Via Ondulando, Ventura 93003
William Lambert (13) ...... . ........... . .... . ... . ... .537 Coyote St., Nevada City 95959

321

BOARD OF CONTROL
Warren W. Wildman (336) ... .. . ...... ........ .. . .. .... 1024 Fontana Dr., Alameda 94501
Joseph L. Ousley (648) .. . ............ ..... ......... 3333 Pershing, San Bernardino 92405
D. Ewing Marsh (I) .. ..... . . ...... ....... ... . ...... 260-32nd Ave., San Francisco 94121
Arthur R. Kirk (403) ...... . .. . . .... ......... ...... 805 Bancroft Ave., San Leandro 94577
Frank D. Rosen (520) . ..... ... ...... . ... .. .. .4740 Sunnyslope Ave. , Sherman Oaks 91403

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
William R. Hervey, Jr. (202) . ........ ...... ....... 6404 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90048
William 1. Williams (828) . .... ...... .. . .... . . ... . . . . ...... . . .. P.O. Box I, Irvine 92664
James F. Graham (702) ........ . ...... . ........ . ....... P.O. Box 207, Temple City 91780

CALIFORNIA FREEMASON PUBLICATION BOARD
125TH ANNIVERSARY
Joel Crouch (582) . ...... .. ............ ..... . .. .... 1395 N. Riverside Ave. , Rialto 92376
Jack H. Dwyer (375) ...... . .......... . ..... 110 Junipero Serra Blvd., San Francisco 94127
Robert McDonald (431) ................ . ... . ... . ..... . .... 610-23rd St., Richmond 94804

Burton Meyer, Jr. (358) .... . .. ..... . . ..... . .. ...... 727 Venice Blvd., Los Angeles 90015
Edward H. Siems (560) . ..... . . ..... ........ . . ... 1111 California St., San Francisco 94108
Ralph H. Head (352) . .. ....... .... ........ . .. .. .... .492 Scenic Dr. , Santa Barbara 93103
(Editor-in-Chief)

SPECIAL ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON FISCAL AFFAIRS

CODE COMMISSION

John A. Sickenberger (392) .. .. . .. .. ... . .. . .... Avenida Majorca 728-A, Laguna Hills 92653
George T. Rowse (191) ..... . . . .. .. .. . ... . .. .. . 2 Valleygreen , Oakmont, Santa Rosa 95405
W. Stanley Davis (144) .. . ... . ........ ... .... .. ...... 678-26th Ave ., San Francisco 94121

Andrew J. Nocas (467) ... .. . ... .. . . .. ...... . .4044 Via Opata, Palos Verdes Estates 90274
John B. Watts (637) . . . . .... .. . . .. .... . . .. . .. .. . . ... . . .358-20th St., Santa Monica 90402
Elton L. Turner (337) ..................... . .... . ..... . .... P.O. Box 86, Crockett 94525
Raymond B. Haizlip (I) .. .. . . . . . . ....... ... ... . .44 Montgomery St. , San Francisco 94104
Edward J. Guirado (323) .. . . . .. . .. .. .. . . .34691 Camino Capistrano, Capistrano Beach 92624

SPECIAL TASK FORCE COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC
SCHOOLS
Edward H. Rowins (324) . ... .. ............. .239 S. Madison Ave., Apt. 7, Pasadena 91101
Edwin W. Wade (504) . . . . . .. .... ...... .4505 California Ave., Apt. 402, Long Beach 90807
Laurence C. Cook (648) ........ . . .. ..... . .. . . .... 582 Parkdale Dr., San Bernardino 92404
Thomas P. Chamberlain (346) . ........ ......... ...... . 10266 Creston Dr., Cupertino 95014
Lawrence A. Scott (716) ........ . .. ... ......... . . ... 305 Covina Ave., Long Beach 90803
(Consultant)

WILLS AND BEQUESTS COMMITTEE
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) ... . ... . . .. .......... . . .... . .417 Ninita Pkwy., Pasadena 91106
Byron C. Morton (259) ........ ..... ... . .. . .. . . ..... 5411 Magnolia Ave., Riverside 92506
Ben Weingart (202) .... . . .. ....... . . . . ....... .. .. 1301 Wilshire Blvd ., Los Angeles 90017
(Consultant)

ENDOWMENT BOARD
Robert E. Hilts (327) ...................... 5280 Atherton St., Apt. 141 , Long Beach 90815
James B. Bouick (139) ..... .. ... . .. . ....... . ...... ... 2704 Hallmark Dr., Belmont 94002
Sam Chadnow (623) .......... ... . . ....... . . . .. . .. ... 9248 Airdrome, Los Angeles 90035
Richard A. Jolly (167) . .. ............. ... ............ .446 Washburn Dr., Fremont 94536
William H. Johnson (820) ... ......... ..... ........ 2540 Vista Baya, Newport Beach 92260
Homer A. Cundiff (598) ..... .. .. .. ....... . . ....... 2135 Aupuni St., Honolulu, Hi. 96817
Gerald E. Grunert (147) ... . ... ... .... . ... . .... . ...... . ... . P.O. Box 636, Fortuna 95540
H . Francis Lewis (192)234 W. Alamar Ave., No . 2, Santa Barbara 93105
Henry E. Noguchi (625) .... . . ..... . . . . . . . . ... .. 3816 Buckingham Rd ., Los Angeles 90008
Zenas Y. Coleman (580) .... ........ . . .. . ... . 1530 So. Maple St., Apt. 2, Escondido 92025
Paul M. Hayes (403) .. .. . . .. . ........ .. ........... . . .. 3311 Walnut Ln., Lafayette 94549
R. D. Weti.el (430) . .. ..... . . ....... .... . . .. . .... .. . .... 19 Wetzel Dr., McCloud 96057
George B. Posson (366) ...... ...... . ... ...... ...... . . ... 4708 E. Fillmore, Fresno 93702
Ralph Ptirrman (676) ... . . .... ... ... . .......... . .... 266 California Ave., Campbell 95008
Leeman Carl Kennedy (603) .. . ... . .......... . ...... 4126 Greenwood Ave., Oakland 94602
Richard E. Bonde (24) ...... . .. . . .. . .. .... .. .. . ............ P.O. Box 3, Mariposa 95338
Robert Watson (224) . ... . ..... ...... ......... ....... 121 Westbluff Ct. , Bakersfield 93305
Francis B. Gilbert (670) . .... . ....... . . .... .......... . . 11327 S. !st Ave., Whittier 90604

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

David R. Oltman (615) .. ..... . .. .. . .. . .. ... ... . . ... .. . 249 S. Franklin St., Hemet 92343
Robert E. McMasters, Sr. (13) . . . . ..... . ...... .. ...... . .P.O. Box 185, Nevada City 95959
M. Reed Wilson (20) .... .. . . .... .. .. . . ... . .. ... .... .5527-22nd Ave., Sacramento 95820
George W . Goris (187) .. .............. . .. .. ... . .. . ... .... . .575 Broadway, Gilroy 95020
John W. Robinson (84) .. .... ... .... ... ...... ... ..... .. . P.O. Box 1184, Red Bluff 96080
William E. Caldwell (123) ... ...... . ..... ... ..... ... . 15450 Pozzan Rd ., Healdsburg 95448
E. Dale Peck (467) . . .... . ............ 8250 Lankershim Blvd., No. 5 Maple, No . Hollywood
91605
William G. Martin (111) ..... ... ..... ... .... ... ..... . . . . 1813 Arbutus Ave., Chico 95926
Joseph C. Cox (543) .. .. . .. . . ...... .... . . . ... ... ... . .630 Grand Ave., Long Beach 90814
J. Norman Roberts (621) . . . .. . . ...... ... .. .. 9752 So. Bartley Ave., Santa Fe Springs 90670
Norman M. Schultz (369) ..... .. ...... .. .... . . . ..... . P.O. Box 34865, Los Angeles 90034
Lewis P. Reiterman (382) . .. ..... .... . . . ... 711 Orange Grov, Apt. 312, So . Pasadena 91030
Russell F. Grindle (55) ................. .. . ....... . . 1331 Buckingham Dr., Fairfield 94533
Irving A. Berliner (120) . . ... .... . . .. ... ... ... . .. ... .. .. P.O. Box 3127 , Daly City 94015
Floyd B. Robertson (652) . .. .. .. . ... ... ...... .. . . .. 3226 Orange Ave., La Crescenta 91214
Theodore M. Norgard (591) .............. ..... ..... . ... .. .... Box 587 , Lockeford 95237
Fred S. Hirsch (42) ... ... . . .. . .. ... ... .. ... ... ... .. .. ... P.O. Box 338, Beaumont 92223
(Consultant)
Joseph A. DeBell (631) ..... . .. . .. .. ... .. .... ... . . .. 6446 Innsdale Dr., Hollywood 90028
(Consultant)

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIA L TEMPLE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Donald B. McCaw (139) . .. . . ..... . . . .... .. ..... .. .. .42 Forbes Ave., San Anselmo 94960
Ralph H. Head (352) . . .. ... .... ...... . . . ... ..... ... .492 Scenic Dr., Santa Barbara 93103
Robert H. Mason (584) ... . ...... . ....... . .. . .... . . 19 Rue Cannes, Newport Beach 92660
Jack Peloian (383) ..... ... ..... . . . .. . .... . .. . .... . .... ... .. . P.O. Box 176, Orosi 93647
John M. Faulkner (448) . ..... ... ...... ... ... ... ..... 106 Appalachian Dr., Martinez 94553
Charles Sedam (709) ..... ... . . ... ... ..... . ...... . . .. . .77 Beale St., San Francisco 94106
Horace W. Orear, Jr. (I) ................. ......... 2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 94110
Raymond A. Howe (346) ... .. . .. ... ..... ... .... .... . 1272 Bellair Way, Menlo Park 94025
John F. Roberts, Jr.(346) ........... .. . . ..... ... .... . .. .2140 Bryant St., Palo Alto 94301
Kermit A. Jacobson (599) ................. . . ......... .417 Ninita Pkwy., Pasadena 91106
Raymond A. Ebbage (499) .. . . ... . .. ....... . . . .... ... .P.O. Box 16003, Sacramento 95816
Stephen J. Collins (685) . ..... .. ..... . . .. ..... .. ... 1980 Sycamore Dr., San Marino 91108

Executive Director
Jack b. Billingsley
P.O. Box 754, Union City 94587
(415) 471-3434
Home at Decoto (Adults)
Joseph M. Olafson, Administrator
P.O. Box 754, Union City 94587
(415) 471-3434

Home at Covina (Children)
James C. Blaine, Administrator
20336 E. Badillo St., Covina 91724
Tel.: (213) 331-0541

323

BOARD OF TRUSTEES
DeWald M. Baum (42) .... ... ..... . . . ...... . . .... 9409 W. Pico Blvd., Los Angeles 90035
Ira W. Coburn (216) ... .. .... ... ....... . . . .. . .. . . 2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 94110
Otto Rohwer (3) . . . ... ... . . . . . . . ....... ...... . .. . .. .555 Capitol Mall, Sacramento 95814
Varnum Paul (169) .. ..... ... . . ... ... ..... ... .. 1170 Sacramento St., San Francisco 94109
Wallace Honeywell (454) .... . . . ... .... .. . . ... .... . . . ..... .. P.O. Box 457, Colma 94014
Elroy Dahlem Joyce (30) .... . ... . .. . ... . .... ...... 2927 Wawona St., San Francisco 94116
John F. Roberts, Jr. (346) .. . ........ . .. .. .. .. ..... .. ... 2140 Bryant St., Palo Alto 94301
GEORGE D. GAVIN, Exec. Vice President & General Manager
1111 California St.
San Francisco 94108
(415) 776-4702

CALIFORNIA MASONIC FOUNDATION
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
John S. Hunt (445) ...... .... .... .. .. . . . .. . .. . ... 3600 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 90005
Everett Houser (504) . .. .... .. ..... ... .. . .. ... .... .. 260 Atlantic Ave., Long Beach 90802
Paul F. Balck (144) . ... .. . .... .... ... ... . . . ...... .. 1844-28th Ave., San Francisco 94122
Pete B. Florio (823) ....... . ..... .. ........... . ....... .816 Sierra Vista, Alhambra 91801
Paul S. Boren (551) .... ..... .. ... .... .. ..... ..... .... ... 1947 Tiffin Rd., Oakland 94602
Carl B. Munck (564) ... .. . . .. ...... .. ............ ... ..... 5940 Zinn Dr., Oakland 94611
John M. Gordon (202) . . . . . .... .. ...... . . .. ...... 3446 Amesbury Rd . , Los Angeles 90027
Melvin A. Pixley (584) . ........ . ............. . .. .3828 E. Slausen Ave., Maywood 90270
Mon Tai Luke (598) . .. .... . ............... .. ...... .. .. 862 Kii St., Honolulu, Hi. 96821
James Wortz (259' . . ...... ... .. . ... ... .... .... . ... .. . .. P.O. Box 1299, Riverside 92502
Harold L. Hollingsworth (1) .. . . . ... ..... ........ .. .423 Burnett Ave. , San Francisco 94131
Robert R. Holt (486) ... . ... ... .... .... . . .. .4201 California Ave., No. 6, Bakersfield 93309
Ralph A. Larson (578) . ... .... . . .. ... .... .... ...... .. ... 3532 White Ct., Torrance 90503
Louis Chapa (579) ....... . .. . . ... . . . ... .. . ..... .. .. . .. 2530 Lone St., Sacramento 95821
John F. Roberts (346) . ... . . .... .. ....... . .... .... .. . ... 2140 Bryant St., Palo Alto 94301
Forrest C. Michell (403) .. . . .. ..... .... .... ... ...... . ... 1916 Melvin Rd., Oakland 94602
(Consultant)

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
No. of
Lodge
I

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

J.P. Markel, SW ..........
C. W. Moore, JW
H. Mueller, George
V. Bennehoff
E. C. Lohmeyer
F. J. Miller
P. Cowgill
H. L. Hollingsworth
E. R. Laversin
D. E. Marsh
H. W. Orear, Jr.

$

2

J. T. McWhirter, SW ......

44.60

3

H. Shaul, M .. .... . ... ... .
B. Hart, SW
J. R. Warren, JW
F. 0 . Cook

17 .20

5

H. E. Asera, M .. .... ... . .
J. L. Williams, JW
W. J. Youles
J. T. Wong

7.20

8

D. M. Stewart, Jr .. .......

26.20

9

R. A. Townsend, SW .. .. ..

24.00

IO

L. Bobbitt, Jr., M . .. ... ...
J. A. Baca, SW
P. E. Jenkins, JW
L. B. Mark, Insp
R. L. Wing

10.00

W. G. Burris, SW . ... ... ,.
R. J. Pierce, JW
C. Kernan, Insp
L. W. Mead
R. F. Atwood
H. W. Giff
C. A. Tibbils

9.40

G. M. Harris, M ..... .....
H. R. Martin
W. Lambert
R. E. McMasters

29.60

R. S. Young, M .. ... ......
R. Norrbom, SW
G. Grarnmens, JW

9.00

C. A. Conrad, M ..........
W. J. Davis, SW
D. J. McMannis, JW
S. W. Tanner

24 .00

12

13

14

16

No. of
Lodge

(All Brethren listed are Past Masters unless otherwise indicated)
No. of
Lodge
17

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

J. L. Iribarren, lnsp
H. Pardeihan
L. Berthier
B. Pasdermanjian
J. F. Smith

18

J. Kucin, M .... .. ..... . ..

38.80

19

E. A. Tye, SW ...........
W. E. Dunbar, JW
R. L. Snyder
N. W. Shaw, Jr.

15.60

A. E. Grundel, M .........
P. G. Ostrom, JW
R. V. Anderson, lnsp
J. V. Willis
M . R. Wilson

17.20

20

21

22

S. K. Bright, Jr., M .. ... . .. $285.09
J. J. Kelly, SW
H. S. K. Chang, JW
H. W. I. Wong
F. Bolte
A. H. Groeper, M
C. A. Hannan, SW
W. C. G. Chandler
J. A. Mord, Jr.
R . A. Wertsch

23

J. R. Blake, M .. .. ... .... .
B. F. Hannebrink, SW
E. Farley, lnsp

28.60

24

R. E. Bonde, M ...........
E. W. Reneau, SW
C. R. Smith, lnsp
C. A. Lantz

33.00

25

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

32

C. A. Lohner, M ......... .

22.80

55

Not represented

35

J. Sutera, M ..............
F. B. Botts, SW
L. R. Parker, JW
J. H. Leach
G. E. Pledger
L. C. Fink, Jr.

104.40

R. L. Dodini, M ..........
L. J. Hensley, SW
T. R. Montgomery, JW
R . F. Grindle
K. M. Battelle
L. M. Frawley
H. L. Swank

9 .80

33

56

J. Dickhart, SW ...........

63.40

C. W. Barnett, M ..........
E. Breitwieser

28 .60

37
38

R. Hampton, M .... .. .....
P. V. Feltis, JW
E.W. Trefts

14.40

57

10.80

40

F. J. Chan, M ..... .......
E. R. Holmes, SW
L. C. Walbeck, JW
L. A. Lasell, Sr.
P. Voudouris
H. F. Benning

17 .20

V. R. Cummings, M .......
W . E. Cussins, SW
T. A. Causley, JW
E. L. Swanson
H. P. Adams, lnsp
L. H. Doda, lnsp
J. L. Durnford
A. F . Edwards
R. A. Miller
J. W. Riehl

41

W. E. Primiterre, M .......
R. E. Wheeler, JW
E. C. Webb

6.80

58

17.20

42

P. H. Steinberg, M ........
D. L. Stybel, SW
S. N. Lehr, JW
C. C. Lau, lnsp
E. C. Levy
M. Schwartzman
D. M. Baum
E. A. Fromsky
H.J. Geller
F. S. Hirsch

80.60

M. Housh, SW ......... ..
B. J. McKinnis
W. E. Zimmerman
L. D. Armstrong
W. A. Revitt
R. Ryan

R. Halterman , M ... ... ....
W. L. Thisby, SW
R. Lavas, JW
R. L. Lindquist, M
A. Ehni, SW
G. M. Travis
I. J. Robertson
R. Schmidt
H. S. Swierstra
G. H. Wierda
W. Griffin, SW ...........

$26.00

H. A. Montgomery, JW .. . .
H. W . Scott
L. H. Buchheister

18.00

50

C . H. Helms, SW ... . .....

34 .00

51

J. D. Hacker, M ........ ..
C. D. Dulcich, SW

27 .20

43

E. L. Day, M ... .. ........
J. A. Morrison, SW
C. J. Davis
L . B. Butt

27.60

26

F. H . Foster, SW .. ...... ..

26.40

27

W. F. Harris, M .. ...... ..
F. W. Varney, SW

52.80

30

R. L. Moore, M
A. F . Larsen, SW
E. J. Armour, JW
R. W. Moore
L. L. Aslanian
V. L. Bruno
F. A. Kujawa

325

44

45
46

73.80

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

59

P. R. Thygesen, M ........

34.60

60

E. P. Herbst, SW . ..... .. ..

44.80

61

J. D. Hansen, M
E. C. White, SW
J. H. Walthew, JW
C. A. Severin
H. W. Gutte, Jr.

64

J. A . Buck, M . . ..........

65

Not represented

68

W. T . Henderson, M . . .... .
E. C . Boswell, SW
D. E. Knak, JW
J. T. Kelley, Insp
B. L. Faunce
W.R . Zeller

15.60

70

G. W. Thornton, M ...... ..
F. R. Fapp, Jr.

23 .60

76

R. M. Gre7'ton, ER ........

28 .00

78

C. P. Mayo, M .. .... .. ...

25 .00

79

M. M. Abbott, Jr., M ......
E. H. Henley, SW
K. E. Himmler, lnsp

56.80

22 .00

326
No.of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

80

M. C. Jensen, ER .........

24.40

81

H.P. White, M ...........
W. P. Wilson

16.80

84

B. Bosworth, SW .........

37.20

87

B. C. Harvego, M .........
A. C. Kincaid, SW
A. R. Mays, JW
J. J. Nicholas
J. K. Cothran
E. L. Baehr
C. M. Beaman
L. G. Dickinson
A. L. Mecredy
G. Oertel
J. Olson
J.P. Tunnell
H. F. Tyrrell
B. Wichels

6.20

J.B. Shinn, M ............
G. W. Busbey

27.80

91

F. A. Rivellier, SW ........
F. A. Rivellier

66.40

93

M. Sears, M .............
R. Duer, SW
G. M. Fenton
J. Wichels

13.20

R. L. Grover, M ..........
J.P. Matich, SW
L. E. Daniels, Insp
G. Reynolds

26.00

98

L. G. Krumm, M ..........
J. G. Glidden
E.W. Lathrop

40.60

99

R. G. Benjamin, M ........
C. M. Osborn, SW
J. P. Frazer, JW
G. C. Barrett
D.R. Fretz

25.60

95

103

T. T. Couris, SW .........
J. L. Shipe, JW
S. K. Parker

29.60

C. A. Hutchison, SW ......
L. E. Chaffin, JW
J. L. Craven, Insp
E. L. Bemis

83.20

104

H. B. Reed, Jr. SW ........
D. B. Andrews, M ........
J.C. Reynolds, JW
P. A. Buob, Insp
H. W. Taylor

111

D. T. Brown, M .......... $32.40
D. H. Slater, SW
A. H. Eckersley, JW
T. Meriam, PGM
R. A. Anderson
W. M. Conner
J.B. Smith
E. C. Arbuckle

112

G. E. Graham, M .........
R. C. Jones, SW

113

W. L. Lindsey, M
W. N. Hancock

117

Not represented

122

T. J. Edwards

Mile.
Allow.

106
110

120

101

Representatives

W.W. Frank
T. R. Richardson
D. L. Shively

J. V. Lowe
M. E. Ott

89

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

123

124

J. R. Begun, M
N. S. Spindel, SW
M. V. Kaplan, JW
R. A. Klinger, Insp
I. Betz
R. E. Gilbert
M. A. Harband
I. C. Mintz
H. Muscat
W. L. Rothenberg
Harold S. Simon
Allen I. Stoll
C. L. Weeks
I. Berliner
K. C. Birnbaum
H. W. Cahn
L. I. Goldkind
B. J. Katz
E. R. Leavitt, M ..........
F. Burks, JW
D. P. Halstead, Jr., Insp
R. M. Hinds, Insp
A. A. Lindroth

58.40
18.00

21.40

No. of
Lodge

Representatives

126

H. E. Morrison, M ........
E. F. Glover, JW

127

R. Balzer, M
0. Meyer, JW
M. Schredl, Insp
A. Carstens
R. T. Christians
F. M. Fuchs
F. Guerr
A. G. Matthes

Mile.
Allow.
11.00

145

W. W. Widenham, M ......
G. A. Souza, SW
K. F. Davis, JW

44.80

129

G. H. Ulrich, SW .........

24.60

128

131

F. A. Williams, M .........

19.00

132

T. Meriam, ER ...........

45.20

134

G. E. Justice, M ..........
R. A. Finke, SW
F. E. Phillips, JW
L. D. Callison

10.80

135

J. Maxwell, JW ...........
R. W. Lewallen, Insp

18.60

136

No. of
Lodge

D. J. Fullmer, M
B. De Leon, SW
M. R. Noveshen, JW
S. C. Levin
H. W. Ross
L. Rubin
S. Schonwetter

5.00

W. D. Ballard, M .........
G. H. Oesterling, SW
A. D. Agostini
W. Caldwell

14.00

H. E. Cosgrove, SW .......
R. M. Mueller, JW

33.00

R. J. White, M
C. S. Jennings, SW
R. M. Montgomery, Insp
J. A. Affleck
H. Hierro
C. S. McGlothlin
W. H. Osborne
0. D. Parker
J. C. Sand, Jr.
S. L. Solomon
J.B. Bouick
D. B. McCaw

140

Y. N. Winthers, ER ... . ...

141

Not represented

143

M. M. Chester, M .........

144

T. R. Smiley
G.D. Gavin
J. D. Hansen
P. F. Balck

17.60

W. S. Davis
E. T. Mancuso
J. C. Wiesner
E. Brown ................

Mile.
Allow.

10.40

146

W. D. Mills, M ...........
M. H. Hickey, SW
R. L. Harmon
E. Marcheschi

23.40

147

C. H. Beeson, M ..........
E. W. Gossett, Insp

53.20

149

M. M. Jenkins, ER ........

54.00

150

N. Howe, JW ............

34.40

156

W. J. Berriman, M ........
W. 0. Rose, Insp
L. S. Cranston
E. D. Davis
G. M. James
E. C. Still
L. Thatcher

16.20

161

E. H. Broadhurst, JW ......
A. E. Buss

23.00

164

H. G. McGuffin, M ........
J. R. Lamb,

41.20

166

W. L. Knoepp, M
J.C. Beaver, SW
H. L. Notmeyer, JW
K. W. Hinkle
A. F. Enderlin
R. W. Haun
J. C. Kohlbecher
G. J. Mann
H. D. Oliphant
W. Peddicord
M. T. Simmons
H. F. Lutticken
E. C. Mathisen

167

0. Sexton, M ........... : .
H. Gardiner, SW
A. Donnici, JW
D. Barrett
R. A. Jolly

6.60

168

W. B. Jackson, M .........
J.C. Bradshaw, SW
L. H. Lease, JW
R.H. Hallett
W. L. Henry
J. C. Worsham, M
W. C. Voight, SW
D. S. Pilmer, JW

5.20

.

139

Representatives

327

17.80
169

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

R. D. Lintner
J.E. Hursh
G. K. Buss
R. P. Seyden
R. J. Shuman
V. Paul
H. D. Soghomonian
173

A. E. Gates, M ...........
R. L. Reim, SW
P. C. Scott, JW
G. M. Beeman
J.E. Haney

20.00

174

J. H. Talbot, SW ..........

25.40

175

W. D. Moses, M ....... . ..
D. R. Smith, SW
P.R. Smith
H. V. St. Clair

9.20

178

J. H. Billings, M ..........
C. L. Brame, SW
J. W. Ditto, Jr., JW

90.80

179

R. D. Gomes, M ..........
D. N. Wade, Insp

31.20

180

J. R. Dias, M .............
R. C. Smart, SW
C. T. Mastrup, JW
R. E. Spitzer

7.60

D. A. Colman, M .........
W. A. Martin, SW
C. C. Cadman

12.60

181

Mile.
Allow.

No.of
Lodge

190

K. E. George, M ..........

46.()()

205

Not represented

191

P.R. Crinklaw, M .........
S. M. Cazneaux, JW
R. W. Troutman, Jr., lnsp
H. A. Gulbransen
A. E. Hessel
J.C. Meagor
G. T. Rowse
J. Davenport, M ..........
W. Garfoot, SW
R. Colombana, JW
R. H. Paine, Insp
J. Butera
H.F. Lewis

206

F. W. Belcher, SW ........
W. L. Hurd

18.20

207

T. L. Toogood, SW ........
H. E. Kirk

86.20

208

G. L. Heal, JW ...........
H. C. Brown, Insp
R. E. Bergstrom
A. A. Scott

13.60

209

W. J. Edwards, JW ........
C. J. Weir, Jr., lnsp
E. S. Nelson

46.40

210

J. C. Rich, Sr., M .........
R. L. Wilson, SW
R. L. Norton
F. F. Von Dorsten
J. Gai
R. E. Snyder

10.00

$19.00

183

C. Coats, Sr., SW ..... . ...
H. I. Ketterman
J.E. Page

21.40

184

A. M. Strang, ER .........
G.D. Webber

43.40

185

C. P. Dingman, M .........

25.80

186

K. E. Dowling, SW ........
W. A. Krueger, Insp

68.80

187

B. B. Bolfing, M ..........
R. H. E. Dale, SW
W. S. Hanna, JW

16.00

68.00

193

C. Van Deventer ..........

54.80

194

J. R. Merry, M ...........
E. Lish, SW
L. Hill, JW
W. Grubb
E. S. Black
J. E. Neff
R. E. Tutt, JW ............

7.40

195

13.40

196

W. Kohn, M .............
W. R. Taylor, SW

44.80

198

F. Davis, SW .............
E. M. Eklund
W. G. Lundquist

85.00

J.E. Sullivan, Jr., M .......
W. Olson, SW
G. De Ghetaldi, Insp

24.60

199

Not represented

J. W. Carter, M
C. D. Walling, SW
C. W. Mehrwein, Jr., JW
W. H. Nutting, Jr., Insp
E. Freije
W. Geha
J. T. Hill

Representatives

192

182

188

No.of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201
200

Not represented
W. D. Baxter, SW .........
C. G. Shane, Insp

202

211

E. Bade, ER .............

212

R. L. De Vita, SW
K. E. Erwin, JW
R. Fernandez
R. D. Gyllenskog III
J. B. Hill
J. W. Price

214

R. B. Simcox, Jr. SW ......
W. P. Mead:Jw
E. R. Brown, Insp.

215
38.20

G. Crow, SW
H. E. Pearson
E. Rohwer
R. L. Harrison, M .........
L. Yaphe, SW
K. S. Kline, JW
J. L. Nelson
L. L. Cutshall
J.M. Gordon
W. R. Hervey, Jr.

80.60

203

H. C. Raines, ER .........

21.00

204

J. J. Reagan, M ..... . .....
K. I. Snyder, SW
V. D. Upp, JW
G. T. Graves
F. 0. Emlay, Jr.
C. F. Hushbeck

21.60

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

No.of
Lodge

217

L. Green, SW ............
T. L. Pflueger, JW

23.40

218

R. W. Walden, M .........
B. A. Hamby, SW
E. V. Archer, JW
H. S. Bowman
R. J. Page

8.00

220

H. T. Tredway, M .........
R. G. Healey SW

83.60

221

R. K. Felton, M ...........
A. D. Stotts, SW

86.00

222

W. P. Schoenhoff, M ......
L. L. Dunwald, SW
C. L. Duncan
J. C. Forristall

20.80

Mile.
Allow.

224

H. W. Wise, M ........_...
D. L. St. Claire, SW
D. A. Howard, JW
J. C. Carpenter, Insp
J. C. Mitchell

225

E. L. Izard, SW
R. F. Anderson
Elmer W. Johnson

226

P. F. Munson, M
G. K. Dress, SW
R. D. Hansen, JW
J. T. Estoll
R. Schmidt

228

W. W. Schenck, JW .......
R. R. Haussler
V. A. Turner

14.40

229

A. G. Espinosa, M ........
L. W. Adams, SW
W. E. Snyder, JW
R. H. Nivarel
G. A. Heinzman
William D. Peden
E. B. Pierce
C. E. Shoaf

6.20

230

L. A. Panecaldo III, M .....
P. S. Skuris, JW

26.80

73.20

W. E. Cottrell, M
J. J. Justus, SW
D. S. Boyer, JW
H. A. Miller, Insp
J. W. Walton

Representatives

329

57.80

231

Not represented

232

F. E. Reynolds, M .........
S. V. Warner

55.80

233

A. E. Enderlin, M .........
J.M. Westerman, JW
W. P. Hampton
A. J. Friedlund

14.80

51.00

234

R. A. Scolari, ER .........

235

Not represented

236

C. Bower, JW ............

20.60

237

J. J. Fisher III, JW .........

47.20

240

E. L. Watson, ER .........

24.80

241

G. A. Patton, M ..........
R. W. Tannehill, SW
L. C. Overton, JW
L.A. Branch
D. Poole

87.00

242

K. R. Porter, SW ..........
J. E. Endsley, JW
M. R. Andrews
A. Brotherton

68.00

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. of
Lodge
243

244

Representatives

F. L. Jenkins, M ..........
J. Droitcour, SW
C.H. Welsh
T. Smith

Mile.
Allow.

W. L. Misner, ER
W. B. Harp
G. K. Harry
T. F. Miller
F. E. Gilbert, ER ..........

29.20

246

E. D. Saxe, M ............
0. F. Fisher, JW
R. M. Lillie

87.20

W. M. Collins, M .........
G. E. Hiatt
R. R. Crawford

248

Not represented

250

N. Massotti, SW ..........

253

Not represented
J. T. Tomasini, ER ........
W. H. Schooler

255

Not represented

256

F. G. Heagarty, SW .......
G. L. Christensen

18.80

258

D. A. Wever, M ..........
J. L. Shotwell, SW
R. A. Skellenger, JW
H. N. T. Bowden, Jr.

22.80

R. M. Layer, M ...........
A. D. Woods, SW
T. K. Rhind, JW
S. L. Channon, Insp
W. H. Price, PGM
E. E. Stockebrand
M. W. Holsinger, Jr.
B. C. Morton
J.B. Morgan
J. Wortz
G. F. Lohman, M
R. L. Kramer, SW
S. J. Dean, Ill, JW
S. J. Dean, Jr.
U. G. Patropulos, AGL
E. S. Hopp, PGM
W. A. Burkett
B. L. Canning
F. H. King
G. H. Konstantopoulos
E. A. Nylund

92.00

259

260

22.80

262

W. B. Hansen, SW ........

57.40

264

J.E. Mallow, SW .........
A. C. West, JW
J. D. Wilkins, Insp
J. S. Ingram

47.20

L. Hutchins, ER ..........

31.00

267

R. J. Riley, JW ...........

268

C. R. Ratkovich, M
0. J. Brown, SW
H. M. Leggett, JW
N. 0. Millar, lnsp
B. C. Allin
C. L. DeWitt
C. E. DeWitt
R. D. Gilmore
M. R. Koontz

43.40

269

G. B. Thrasher, SW .......
D. C. Smith, JW

17.60

45.40

271

M. E. Murphy, ER ........

31.00

272

I. E. Betts, M ........ . ...
E. H. Riggs, SW
C. L. Elliott, Insp
R. M. Mecham
J. W. Smithson

82.20

D. A. Downey, M .........
W. C. Fyke, SW
B. R. Mooney
W. C. Wilson

84.00

273

274

C. A. Galbraith, SW .......
L. C. Bair

49.60

275

J. D. Looper, M ..........
W. B. Looper, SW
R. W. Dunwoody
P. Dybdal

19.00

W. J. Elling, M ...........
W. A. Sheetz, SW
H. E. Hiraoka

39.60

278

T. E. Brown, M ...........
A. R. Meinicke, SW
T. R. Hendricks, JW

82.20

279

M. A. Winn, ER ..........

42.80

277

No. of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

280

R. Padgett, M ......... . ..
R. Joines, SW
D. J. Gomes, JW

32.20

281

R. F. Davis, Jr., SW .......

41.20

282

Not represented

283

I. Mascarenas, SW ........
E.W. Grant, JW
J. F. Liesman, lnsp

105.20

286

L. Wood, SW ............
G. L. Carter, lnsp

40.60

287

J. W. Hancock, SW .......
W. W. Partridge, lnsp

77.00

288

P. K. Corley, M ........ . .

24.60

289

C. T. Thompson, ER .......

94.40

290

J. R. Joy, M.......... . ...
A. Leroy, SW
J. Madrid, JW
C. C. Cadman
J. A. Crosby

80.60

291

A.G. Goldschmidt, SW ....
E. F. Griffin
F. W. Hertel, Jr.

76.40

292

D. F. Wise, M ............
J. F. WigingtQn, SW
W. F. Buffington, JW
R. M. Neal

10.60

293

C. G. Jancik, M ...........
C. Mezzacappa, SW
J. C. Seibert, Insp
M. W. Gould

86.60

294

R. N. Rouch, ER ..........

40.60

295

A.G. Mowry, M ..........
M. J. Gift, SW
C. L. Wadlow

13.80

296

G. K. Rodgers, M.........
R.H. Kelly, SW
E. M. Newton, AGL
W. R. Coddington
H.F. LaRose

104.40

297

W. J. Hatfield, JW ........
E. R. Deering

54.20

R. E. Davis, M ...........
J.M. Dow, SW
D. K. Larson, JW
C. J. Grant

9.00

299

Representatives

331
Mile.
Allow.

C. R. Zercher

W. G. Dreeke

W. E. Owens, ER .........

64.20

254

Mile.
Allow.

261

265
36.60

Representatives

J. J. Putman
A. C. Von Konsky
B. C. Von Konsky
L. F. Anderson
G. A. Benoit

5.40

245

247

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

300

J. L. McCaffrey, JW .... . ..
K. Dowell, lnsp

92.00

301

J. E. Potts, SW ...........
D. E. Ness, JW

86.80

302

P. D. Anderson, M ........
D. R. Bailey, SW
A. W. Yelkin, JW
F. Y. Mar

30.20

303

R. P. Belton, SW .........

49.80

304

D. Stanley Powell, Insp .....

40.80

305

E. J. Burr, SW ............
I. L. Franks, JW

85.00

306

E. O'Neil, M .............
J. E. Stokes, SW
L. H. Riggins
H. A. Smith, II

92.40

307

J. L. Showalter, M ........
J. F. Donovan, SW
B. M. Wagner, JW
N. W. Thompson

80.20

308

L. Walters, Jr. M ..........
W. H. Kaler, SW
0. L. Williamson, JW

83.60

309

B. E. Howard, M .........
H. E. Shoop, JW
W. J. Taylor, Insp

51.80

56.00

310

S. H. Hopkins, ER ........

312

E. R. Peugh, JW ..........

25.20

313

H. S. Hemphill, M ........
C. M. Liebel, JW
P. D. Marx

66.20

314

W. C. Thomas, SW ........
E. D. Sampson, JW
L. E. Brookshier
P. J. Nylander

90.00

315

G. L. E. Baird, M .........
E. D. Satterfield, SW
L. 0. Mortvedt, JW
P. Bezanson
J. B. Parker

83.60

316

F. M. Richardson, M ......
K. Richardson, SW
G. F. Severns, JW
T. A. Stevens

39.60

317

C. G. Dudley, SW .........

101.00

332

PROCE EDING S OF THE

No. of
Lodge

R <'presen tatil•es

Mile.
Allow.

F . H. Eldred . JW

319

C. L. Grave ,. M .. . ..... . .

331
80.60

K. C . Milkr. SW
E. C. Scribner . J\\'
U . Ro,tagno
G. C. Law,on
R. D. Linke
T . J. Owe n,. Jr.
F . W . Pet~r'

332

320

J. L. Davies. M .. .. .......
R . C. Sweeley . Jr. SW
D . H. Ten)

80.0U

321

R. B. Gordner . !\1 ... .. .. . .
R. D. Worboy s. J\\'

7.KO

322

J. A. Davis. M .... . .......
J. H. Hamel. S\\ '
D . F. Nettleto n. JW
J . M Yuk
C. J. Pierce

82 .00

D . D. Jone,, M . ....... . ..
V. C. Engel. SW
J. C. Freed. JW
W . H. Barrell

8Ui0

323

324
325
326
327

328

329

330

R. Janda. SW
D. K . Lesh, JW
R. L. Villalobo s
E. H . Rowin'
Not represented
R. R. Dan over. ER

101 .60

1. N. Wade, S \V . . .... .. ..

l 13 .KO

R. Kea>t. M . . ..... . . ... ..
W . P. Naylor. SW
J . Gardner. JW
1. W. Gaddi> Ill
G . P. Calderw ood
R. E. Hilts

85 .KO

S . B. Jackson. M .. . .. .... .
J. G. Harri>. SW
1. E. Walker. JW
D. J . Shoema ker, ln' p
G . S. Fairbrothe r
M . D. Fellow,
E. J . Milb
P. P . Rossi , M ... ... .
J . C. Bourgui gnon. ln ' p
R. E. Bourgui gnon
A. L. Caen
M. Machu

82. ~0

L. S. Sumida . SW .. . ... ...
C . E. Baker. JGS

No. of
Lodge

GRAN D LODGE OF CALIF ORNIA

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

E. C . Coffin Ill. M.
F. Be ll. Jr. SW
S. Scholes. JW
K. C . Moon:

2-UO

3J6

J.C. Rollins. ~l . ... ... . ...
D. L. Bullock . SW
E. H . Clarke. JW

86 .00

Represe ntatives

333

F . J. Muss. ER ....... ....

59.00

334

G. H. Saccane . Jr. SW ..
A. E . Stange. JW
W. R. Bergene r. Jr.
D. B. Wh itlnd
W. C . Bate'

85.20

.us

L. R. Carlston . SW ...... . .
R. L. Smith . JW
A. Montro' c

80.60

336

D. C . Hana. !\1
R. J. Edward ,. S W'
C. R. DeKoMcr. JW
B. 0 . Young. AGL
D. A. Turpin
W. W . Wil<lman

348

337

D. R. Marlo". M .. ... .. ..
E. L. Turner

5.60

338

A. L. Hansen. ER .. . ... ...

98.00

339

J. G . Renner. !\1 .... .. ..•.
P. J. Davis, SW
M. Bruhake r, JW
W. L . Currie

86 .00

3.n

J. w. Shows, M . .. ... .. ..

J..l9

75 .20

E . T . Aitken . SW
D. L. Hanl ine. JW
J. J. Ri1ch. ln'p

J..l3

344

G . 0. Anderson . M .
F . Fl ye. SW
D. Hambley , JW

347

80.0l)

325.'>5

345

A. J. Hughe, , Jr . SW ......

11.20

6.40

355

R epresentatives

Mile.
Allow.

c. K. Wood . M ....... ....
c. F . Howard. SW

79.20

L. E. Anderso n. PGM
M. J. Aldcrsho f
V . A. Baldwin
E. H. Gehhardt
F. Green
H. Weissha ar
H. J. Wolking

W . J . Ward. M
K. M. Johnson . SW
H. C. Wing . JW
J. C. McPher son
T . A nder~on
F. R. DcBarro w'
M. F . Mitzel
H. R. Moore
A. C. Rogers, Jr.
J. H . Paulin. Jr .. !\1 ... • •.
D. K . Bailey . SW
D. D. Rouse. JW
A. N. Schmi1z . ln5p
F. P . Weatherford, lnsp
G . M. Cellar
A. B. Grc;ham

No. of
l.odge

L. J. Graham . JW

356

L . J. Hollomo n, M
H . A. Thomas . SW
J. C. Pallerson, JW
J. Uhrig
H. R. Henry
R . D. Jac k,on
H . A. Ronning
K . 0 . Sey mour
B. A. Stocking
F . A. Wilwn

357

W . C . Bri,co. ~"1 •....
J. Hays. SW
R. Johnson , JW
M . Jone>
1. W . Willi '
T . R. Siem'

R.i.60

JSR

H. W . McCaffeT) . M .. ... .
J. !\·! . Choate. SW
B. Meyer. Jr .. DGM
D. W. Litsinge r
G . R. Brown . Sr.
S . R Evan,,
R. C. Ham.~ 1 1
G . D. Kite
R. W . Selon . Jr.
L. F . Smith
G . 0. Wheatle y

!Hl.60

90.80

A. D. Ramsay. M
R. C. Tarleton , SW
L. G. Skilling . JW
D. W. Be,oa~n
F. D. Galler
B. K. Ho it
D. E . Skilling
W . G. Skilling
G. Q. Burris. l\.1 • •. •. .• .. • .
A . T. Bo~sen, S W
H. W . Erickson , JW
J. A. Boy le. lnsp
R. E . Rou'h

80.60

352

R. T. Cooper. M . . ....... .
N. J. Woodma n. SW
W. \V. Crank . JW
J. W. Robens
J. B. Didlake
R McPeck
R. H. Head
W. Kl udjian

80.60

353

D. C anwrigh l. !\! .. •.. •••.
A. Trcucl. SW
C. Holden. J\\'
R. L. Spinney , Imp
R. A. Silva. lns p

5AO

C. W . Kaplan . SW
A. C. Solomon , JW
L. Beder. Insp
A. S . Becker
L. T . Goldme yer
A. Home
A. Salomon
s. S he ff
H. L. Wayne
B. J . Kat£

H. E. Smith. M ..
T . P. Chambe rlain . S W
C. W. Nicolai. JW
J. F . Roben s. Jr .. SGW
H. E. Simon>
V. H. Hansen
L. M. Harm>
A. B. Mo rten
R. A. Howe

Mile.
Allow.

.'SI

75 .60

~- W . EberharLll. M

Represe ntatives

333

361

E. L. Mclac hlan. ER . . . .. .

JJ . 20

362

J . D. Whitfiel d. 1\1 .
H . C. Lowney . SW
A. R. Wegner. J\\'
W . H . Scon
J. R. Foro.r.:r
R. K . Fuller

<> . ~O

363

K . H . Butler. l\·1
J. D . Greer. SW
A. E . Jaeger. J\\'
D. L. Hurt
S . A. Baral..•"
C . W . Crocker
0. E. McLean

33-l

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. of
l odge

R epresentatives

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

W . P . Ralph
G . W . Harper. SW . . ......
H. L. P . Wessel. JW

28.00

J . C. Shaw . \1 . .......... .
G . L. Young. S W
D . L. Eckland . JW
S. M . Pavlovich. lnsp
R. E. Paden
R W . Reyno ld'

36 60

367

I.!" . Dickson . \1 .. . . . . . • ..
D . D. Robinson, SW
J. Massey. JW

82.60

368

R. J. Macleod . Sr . . M ... . .
C. W . Da)ton. SW
G . B. Mize . PGM
A. F . Simmo n~
H . C. Roark

80.00

R. G . Curti>. -"1 ..... . . ... .
H. 0 . -"1argaillan. SW
C . Sollee. JW
D. B . Hoffman . ln\p
J . 0 . Anderson
W . T . Bett~
!" . B. Creek
E . H. Guess
W. D. Tucker
N . .'>!. Schultz

80. 20

365
366

369

370

371

375

R epresentatives

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
f ,odge

~3

E . D . Pead . l\I
W . H . James . Sr .• SW

384

F. E. Long . lnsp
J . McCubbin
L. E. Allton
E. K . Bender
C. 0. Dughi
G. W. Hill
N. H. Hong
V. D . Mabry
G . H . Pape
F . C . Sing
L. H. Strohecker
C . R. Trethewey
J . H. Dwyer
376

P. W. Pedrotti . SW
U. D . \lack in'
H. 0 . Hammeri<:h
T. J . McHenl}
C. D. Offhou'e
0 . Stewart
A . C. Kuer, ten

377

E . R. Kaneta. S W . . . ... . .. 285.09
J . C. Simpson
M. W. Lindburg
A . H. Stnl.~
83...tO

373

R. R . Will iam,. 1\1 . . .... . .
V. A. Bradfield. SW
F. Merrell . JW

!10.60

374

T. H. Conner. \I
S . W . Lee . JW
B. F . Cohn . lnsp

378

379
380

R eprescntati11cs

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
L odge

J. C. Myer:;. M
J. W . Dennis. SW
H. H. Thomas . JW
G . W . Brown . Insp
E . L . Almquist
B. J. Hjerpe
K. D . Knight
E. A . Sandberg
F . J. Delan o ~
K-UO

G . 0 . Wade . M .. . ........
R. L . Perkin•. SW
D. W . Perkin,. JW
G . W . Perkins. AGL
R. B. Montgomel}" Insp
W . Bragull a

80.60

H. W . White . M ... . . . . .. .

7R.40

R. G. Wall. M .... . ... . ...

R9.20

381

P . W . Laun. JW . ... . .. ...

97 .60

382

R. J. He,ser. M .. .. ....
H. A . Abrahamson . SW

80.60

J . L. Bro wn. \1 . . . . .......
R F . Slate . JW
E. W . Heald, PGM
J . W. Kennerwn
D . E. Wood
R C . Reeder

123.20

385

Noc representcJ
G . W. Deverick. S\V.
0 . L. Mc Elwee
R. A. Booth

381!

J . A. Vignola. \ ·I
J. Johnston . SW
R. C. Dausse . JW
W . A. Fager
R. D. Cobb
J. E. Finley, Jr.
R. E . Pecer,en
H. D. Rohenson
E. J . Willig
C . H. Allen
A . L. Croce
G. E . Frank
E. C . Gunther
T. A . Kirby. Sr . . M ........
G . H. Fleming . SW
D. H . Lar.;on . JW
H. C . Hul se
C. J . Morrett

85.80

121.20

390

D. Kendall . ER .. .. . . .. . . .
Not represented

392

W . B. Mitche ll. SW ..
J. A . Sickenberger

393

H. R. Bo th. M
J . E . Yarberry . SW
H. J . Talbot. JW
H. T . A. Olsson

394

E . E. Robinson. M . . .. . ...
M . E. Smith , PGM

84 .60

395

B. Whitlow. SW . . ........
E . Ander~on. JW

20.KO

.W6

J. L. Darms. Jr .. M
H . C. Denton. SW

Mile.

R epresentatives

Allow.

397

G . Markland . M .. . .. . .. . .
A. E . Jackson. SW
R. Bre ie r. JW
C . G . Carroll
J . M. Hefner
D . S . Rit~hey

8 1.60

399

L. E . Kei ster. M ..........
W . R. Pickering, SW
H. L. Stephens. JW
H . E. Van Arsdale
W . E . Brown
R. H. Gilbert

10.00

400

K . E. Taylor. M
R . P. Quadri . SW
H . Stephen>
W. G . Fcrgu,on
W . B Ta) lor

401

W . H. Searle . M
L . G . Ambrose. SW
H . T . Thiel. Jr. JW
E . C . Lamp
C . W . Bishop
S . M. Giovannelli

402

P . E . Simon. ~L ..... .. . ..
F . Warren Schoneman. SW
M . L. Wagstaff. Jr .. GSB
E . E. AJarns
J. B. Whitehead

403

L. G . Kingman. M
0 . F . Faris. SW
L . S . Mc E!wain. PGM
W . C. Ru\k
R. A . Lang
P . M. Hayes
A. R. Kirk

404

T . L . Merritt . M .. . ... . .. .
D . M . Jones. SW
F . C . Duncan . JW
C. F . Thompson

85.40

R . F . Sicmund. M . . . . . . . ..

83.40

41.60

391

J. L. Edmundson. SW
R. L. Young. JW
R. D. Wolf. Insp
L. A. l:ludwig

41. 80

387

31!9

P. D . Lindley. M ... .. . ....
W. M. C ates. SW
D. J. Pre~cott . JW
J. L. Stead

C . E. Dawson . SW . . . ... . .
J . Gong
R. B. He nry
J . Peloian

335

W . F. Turner . JW
J . L. P~nc ake
J . E. Harri'
C . E . Thau

R. L. Carr. JW
L. P. Reite rman

M . P. Prince
W . Chew
C. Rnthblum
H. H. Schultz
A . Valdes
J . J . Dunn

J. Morri~sey

G . H. C ronin. \ 1 . .... .. ...
8 . E. Ge isen . SW
J . W . Bums . JW
R. E . Crist. ln• p
H. C. Mc lendon

372

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

80 .60

405

119.W

L. B. Fcnder,on
J . I. \kGraa
406

K . L. Chapple . M ...... . ..
J. W . Bunte n. SW
F . J. Giunchini. JW
R. B Carter. Insp

79.20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

336
No. of
Lodge

Representath•es

Mile.
Allow.

R A. GJa,gow
R. E. ~chnn
R. L. OJ,nn
W. A. (hhoumc
R. H. Ruhen,on
G. F. Wckh

407

Mile.
.4/low.

F. J. Parr) . .\1 ........... .
E. W. Barw1c~ II. JW

111.80

No. of
Lodf(e

R. Per~)n,on, \ ·1 .....

D. Stewcr. SW .......... .

83.40

409

A. S. Faria,, M .... .
E. K. hhi~awa, SW
F. N. Thoma,, JW
0. K. Rohcrh
0. L. Krick

285.09

411

D. L. Bid"Well. M ........ .
L. C. Palmore

94.110

412

J. Shulrnire. M ........ . . .
J. Bauer. SW

124.20

441

E.G. Stanley, SW.
W. 0 . Simp>on . JW

109 .fl()

442

C. Friedman . M ...... .
S. K. Krasner, SW
M . E. Ro ger., , JW

104.40

443

0. OJa,o. SW........ . . . .
0. J. B Lau. Jn;p
C. A. Battige
C. R Wea ver

285. 09

444

T . A. Wardell. JW ........
C. C. Benedi<:t

69 80

445

F. H. ~orri s . ~v1 . . . . . . . . . . .
N. A. Furman . SW
R. K Byen'
H. P. Huehner
J. S. Hunt

80.ti(J

G. Weisberg. M ......... .
S. H. GonzaleL, SW
E. Hughes. J\V
E. C. Evans GC
R. W. Lee
J. Gilhert
J. B. Rmcn
S. Zai<l

79.20

c. R R og~ r, , sw...... . ..

x.u;o

416

J. L. Calder. M ......... ..
G. C. Hinbon. Sr .. SW

47.80

417

R. L. Payne. 1\1 ..
C. D. Smith, SW

~7.40

123.80

426

R. E. Rurt. M .......... . .

59.40

J. T. Junes, SW
J. R. Rench, lnsp
W. E. Wahl

427

Not rcprcscnlcd

428

G. C. Johmun. M ........ .
H. Brockelmeyer. JW

8ti.20

R. G. HcrnandcL. M ...... .

8.00

N. W. l,l,' hitman. JW
G. A. Sharer
J. G. Sauvain. M.
W. G. Uhl. SW
R. W. Orr. Jw
C. K. Sc here le. lnsp
H. W. W. Burmeister

80.60

419

F. S. Kellner. SW ........ .
J. R. Thrasher

87 .80

420

Not represented

421

J. W. Quinn, M .......... .
A. J. Perello. SW
E. B. Show
C. M. Gawthrop
E. N. Stan,el

83.00

E. B Noakes. SW ........ .
W. D. BradfJd<l. JW
J. E. Calhoun

80.60

F. Potter, SW
R. D. Sharrah, ER ...
P W. Lindt. lnsp
R. D. Wcucl

431

M. S. Hci,lcr. SW
L. H. Rasmussen, JW
E. R. Rmoh. Jn,p
A. Atwood
W. A. Horne
R. E. Wincentsen
D. E. Davi'
R. Md)onald

433

E. W. Coopman. Jr, \ ·1
C. L. Pitt. ln'p

435

R. A. Bush. M
E. E. Kline. SW
I. T. Cra\e
P. A. de Vric'

57.60

446

447

A. N. Le Mun) o n , SW.... .
R G. Reid. JW
V. W. Hendrix. AGS
G. C. Johnson
J. M. Faul kne r

6.20

450

R J. Parri,h, M......... . .
A. E. D . Pari,ian. SW
W. W. Dickson, Jr.. ln sp
W . C. Faubion
R. E. Gibson
H. S. M orri,on

77.60

451

J. E. Har. M. . ........
E. L. Ryerson. SW

82 .00

448

87.80

437

F. A. Shannon. M ....
G. H Lindquist. SW
D. C. Shaffer. JW
J. E. Bacon. lnsp
C. T. Johnson
J. C. Sinn
R. J. Turner
V. D. Ward
A. J. McCourtney

75.00

E. Webster ..'vi •.•.•.•.••.•
M. McClay, SW

15.00

N. E. Berlin. 1W
F. L. Sutliff. Insp
R L. Kame>
B. F. Kearney

452

E A. Stagg . M........ . . .
E. H Wharv. SW
L. G . Bohringer. Sr., J W

Mile.

Representatii,es

Allow.

454

P. H. Smith. M
W. Honeywell. SW
W. A. Gfroerer, J W
E. E. Sniith
D H. Coombs
C. M. Gardner
A. H. Peterso n

455

W. R. Harri s . .\1
S. A. Costaki;, JW
C.R. MacPhee. GT
W. M. Lustenberger. ln\p
W. E. Bode
E. B. Bre haut

457

G. L. Bechtel, \-I ..... . ... .
1. R . Medrano . SW
C. E. Hughe; , JW

82.20

458

D. Aldershof. M .
E. Raike, , SW
B. D'Aston
G. Ge ssel
P Narkella
W . Scott
H. Shaffer
J. Siafford

XII.Ml

459

I. R . Nix. SW . .. .. . . . ... .
G. C. Stalev
C. C. East~an
A. 1. Ro»i

18 20

460

J. B Ledbetter. S W ..... . .
L. G. Routt, JW

12 .40

461

D. S . Lambe. M
R A. Grandy , SW
G. W. Nelson. JW
G . P. Leung, lnsp
E. A. Caldwell
J. K. Hodge
J. C. Lewellen
H. Loo
C. F. Montgorner)
C.R. Smith

462

A. J. Sloper. M
D . C. lldenon, SW
L. H. Bee kendorf
H. D. King
P A. Lawson
M. J. Me) er

84 f>O

D D. Peter,on, SW
G. J Benoit . JW
R. 0. Lougee
L. D. Babcock
F M. Ham en

24.20

R. A. Schack. M ...
F. H. Burris. SW
C. W. Ohon. JW
J. W. Ncgu.,, Sr .. lnsp

C. J. Mead way ..'vi. . . . . • . .

337

R H Rittge r..
A. \fan incz
J. R Milkr
R. D. Samo'a

J. W. Robe ns
E. I. VanAtta. Jr

436

439

No. of
Lodge

47 00

R. Ri,cl.SW ...... . . . ... .

430

Mile.

Allow.

W. C. Miranda. M
R L. Ackeret, JW
A . .\1 . Tom. [n ,p
L. C. D urant

425

429

Representatii•es

440

C. C. (fuim1

408

422

Repr('sentatfres

0. A. Capp'

424
I Of>.40

418

No. of
Lodge

423

J. W. Smith. M .......... .
B G. Urt1uidi. SW

415

GRAND LO DGE O F CA LIFOR NIA

82.20

No. of
/,vclge

Represe11tatfrl'S

Mile.
Allow.

46.\

E . L. Barlow. SW ......•..
J. Brighi. In~ p

.i64

W . H. Gunn. '.\1
D. R. Neal. SW
A. G. Holl}. JW
A. V. Sligar
D. N . Deane
S. V. Doninelli
A. E. Hewit
E. G. Reich>tetter
S. Rnhson
R.H. Hill

4(>()

~7

468

No. of
Lodge
478

M. S . Springer
J . War..haw
L . Web~mann

465

13.80

479

V. L. '.\tadron. JW ...... .
S. E . Dollar

36.60

R. L. Davis. 1\1 ..... ..... .
D. B Gardner. S \\'
R . J. Myers
J . 0. Gregoire
C. W. Luick
E. L. Moynier

57.80

1\.1 . A. McReynold>. M .....
B. L. Lambcn>on. JW
0 . '.\I. Hei.kkola. ln>p
N. A. Cool
R. P. Stone
H. Hargrave. Jr.
A. J. Nocas
E. D. Peck

80 .60

480

481

A. E. Duncan. M

482

T. F. Arnold, SW
E. W. Lakin. JW
A. W . Benko
D . E . Mos>

"69
471

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN I A

PROCEEDI:-.IGS OF THE

338

D . C . Tiller . SW .... .... . .

86.60

J . E. Beck. M . ...........

15.60

48]

472

J. J. Kem. SW ............

310.25

473

J. A. Neldbcrg . SW ........

I 25 .80

475

A. F. Rountree. M ........ .
B. B . Patterson. SW
H. A. Save

80.60

476

F . F. Wihon

.. .. .. .. ....

102.00

477

Sot represented

Mile.
Allow.

E. P. SoJ crholm. M
J. K. Philpott. SW
R. C. Volht,im. JW
H. G . Denham
J. G . Dodge
H . F. Hc~ncr
E. L. Kearney
J. H. Leake
G. H. Meyer
F. A. Storey
G. Dolfin. M ..... . .
A. A. Bruns. Jr .. SW
A . A. Pasquinelli. JW
F. E. Baughman
J. S. Ha,en
J. W. Lile
E. W. Roggy
R . W. Senn
E. C . Van de Mark
Marvin Wri1?ht
D . H. DcwhuN
D. R . Kidder

10.00

485
486

487

R . Jadr.~n . JW .......... .
E .W. Myers. M . . .... .. . .
A. L. Hutchi~n. SW
J. L. Wyatt. JW
F. J. Pendle, M .........
J. R. Hallcll. SW
E. C. Mar,hall. Jr.. JW
H A. Budding
C . B. Menge
H C. Siebert

488

R. L. Davis. M . ... .. .....

489

W . C. Lemkau, M
A. C. West, SW
F. V. Bowles, JW
C.R . MacKay
J. A. Sobey

491

492

H. H. Ro bcm. SVI: ........

Mile.
Allow.
18.20

No. of
Lodge
Representatives
J . E. Thurbon
B. G. Gunter
G . W . Kerr , M
B. W . Be ll. JW
D. G . Collin~

504

R . E . RClswurm. M ........
J. K. Waddington, SW
R . D . Hardage. JW
R . H. Davis . ln ~p
0 . A . Vogel
H . K. Noble
E. Houser

85 80

505

R. F. Waldron. M ....... ..
W. C. Pasley. SW
J . W . Moore Ill . J W
D. Henle}

87 .00

506

J. W. Geller. M ....... ....
0 . T. William:.. SW

80 .00

507

D. E . Webb. 1\.1 ...........
R . J . Lehman

81.80

508

C. S. Carpenter, M . .... . ..
V. L. Gordon. AGL

42 .(X}

46 80

B . J. Ballard. M
J. Niec, SW
R An>pach. JW
W. Goldenstein
G . A. Jurgen>
F . H. Crebs. M ....... . ...

80.60

H. M. Hand. ln ~p
G. E. Harrison. Insp
D. C. Lee

77.00

49]

F. L. Downs, M ....
W. E. Willis, SW

494

M. M . Ganitch. M
J. Jennings, SW
K. T. Bartley, JW
N. Weisgerger
R . Adam>
D. F. Darrow
E. L. Hanso~

497

D. C. Barnett. M
J. H. Robles. SW
H. E. Miller. JW

498

Not re presented

499

C. E. Simard . M ..........
K . E. Bowersmith. Sr., SW
R . A. Ebba ge. GM
J. W . Driskell. SGD
R. A. Young
C . M . Cole. Jr.
P. Gemoules

noo

~9.20

500

57.80

42.KO

G. Vaughan . lnsp

509

R . Simon. ER

510

J. McCallum. M ......
C. Oldfield. SW
1\.1. Scriber. JW

511

N. W . Kimmy. M . ... . , ...
H . H. :R. Pettit, SW
D. L. Fe ick , JW
H. L . Hom
H . R . Duke

8 .20

512

H . Kaczmarek . '.\1 ..... . .. .
S . McGaffey. SW
J. R. Roeder. JW
R . Niccum

8U.60

513

C. S . Kellogg. SW ......
E . L. Zimmerman. JW

79.20

17.20

L. D. Sutton. 1\1
W . C. Zecher
J . J . Cama

6.20

502

L . Veenker, M ...........
R. L. Hun. SW
R . E . Lyddon, JW
F. C. Newton. M
J. D. Chastain. SW
D. L. Hill. JW

9 .00

H. J. Wright
H. \I. King
W . KunJenov. Jr.

J. W . Cave
R. W . Wau'

H. M . Sante

SOI

Mile.
Allow.

503

C. A . Stephens. SW

S. H . Lone>. M
A.H . McAulay . SW
J. M. Stoke>. JW
E. F. Pierce
G. F. AJams
R. E. Pfeiffer

C. S. Ogden. 1\.1 .•• • • .•• •••

Representatives

J . Hammond. lnsp

R . H. RookarJ. '.\1
S. E. Smith. SW
A . L. Costa
D. M . Mar>hall
P. M . Po ner

E. A. Han . :\1 ... .. .......
P W. Mahaffey. SW
H . A. Hauben , JW
H. E. Shiliock

No.of
Lodgt!

490

G . E . McGowan. SW
I. S. McWilliam>. JW
A. C. l..ar>on

C. l\.kKenne). SW
G. W . Graffis
F . V. Mayo

Reprcsentati1•es

339

~9 80

51!1

R . E. Bnwman. 1\.1 .•. • • ....
W . V. Marl..e)
J . W . Getsinger

103.40

520

1\.1 Baer. !\1 ..............
B . E. P)nes. Jr. SW

~O . t>O

340

PROCEED!1'."GS OF THE

No. of'

Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

S. Sommer, JW
S. Rosen. Insp
S. L. Quint, [nsp
J. M. Kartzinel
~I. H. Nahin
521

523

524

538

540

H. C. Andersen, M
P E. Linnckin. SW
D. J. Buckingham. JW
E. H Pilcher
R P. Ge)er

541

G. W. Wimer. M...... . ...
E C. Lafrance. SW
H. E. Swap. JW
R ~1. Littlefield

84.Cttl

J. F. Parkin,, ~I...........

92 40

J. S. Guion. SW
525

52!1

\ ·!. \I. DeCosta. ~v!
G. G. White,i<le. SW
N. N. Domamky. JW
R. L. Bowen
W. Morgan. ~I...........
J. K. Coge,,hall. SW
S. J. ~langiagli

i!0 .60

532

W. R. Padgett, JW . ...... .

IX XO

533

A. \1. Be rlowe. \I... ... ..
H. D. Stra,,,er. SW
F. L. Caldwel!. JW
E. Gregg
H L. Hibler. Jr.

i\6 00

530

534

535

543

36.Ml

R. C. Loce~, SW
K. Wong, JW
J. N. Rae
R.H. Ro lfe

J. L. Hiatt, \l . .....
R H Hastings. SW

W.W.Herro n.M . .
E. W. Bickel, SW
C. W. Boyd, JW

544

545

546

80 .60

547

Mile.
R epre sen tat iv es

Allow.

No. of
Lodge

M. E. Gallup. M... . . . . . .
A. B. S. Lauchlan, SW
H. R. Taylor
E. E. Owen,,

M 60

549

W. ~fade I. M........... ..
L. L. Main. Jr .. SW
C. G. Barrie. JW
F. L. Ray

85.i!O

R. ~- Hamaker. M
W. R. Peterson
L. H. Castlio
E. R. Rowe
L.A. White
C. J. Bellman. Jr
M.K.Frush,M ...........
D. L. Currl in, SW
M B. D . Wells. JW
D. r..taltby. lnsp
M. J. Alfano
R V. Kellinger
B. C. Smith
R. A. Totman
J. S. Woodward
J. G. Gladson
D. lngalb

78.00

552

J. W. Sha ver, M. .. .......
D. N. Clark. Jr., SW
J. C. Tario

554

~1. N. Gesk~. M
L. G. Schaich. SW

85.80

W . M . Walker, \1. . .. . . . ..
L. E. Antcliff. SW
J. R. Vaughan, In'p

8 0.00

G. H Katsonos. M
B. T. Saenz. JW
0. W. :-.;o rrnan
L. G. Fong
I. J. Kohnke
K . K. S. Won
S. A. Butera

i\0.60

C. L. Coffman, M. . . . . . . . .
J. M. Zeder, SW
E. T. Knowles

82 20

W. T. Bu,c hmann. ~!...

83 40

R. S. Doan. JW
J. R. Taylor
L. A. Hays

562

56. i\O

W. J. Ledbetter. ER.

557

J. T. Johnson. S W..
P. W. Goff, Jr.
W. E. Harri,on

82.80

558

K. Thyrion. M . .... . ......
S. G. Roge rs. JW
J. J. Nash, Insp

86 00

57.8 0

C. C . Miller, M
L. B. Grayson. SW
W. W. Bessey, J\\I
E. H. Siems . GS
D. E. Wei,,;e , Insp
B. H. Vincent
W. B. Adam'
L. C. Babbi t!
M. M. Bo li n
H M. M cC racken
W. F. Stumpf
P. M. Tripp
C. M. Stine
0. L. Himon. M ...
H. I. Do rsett. SW
W. E. Burrell, J W

W. E. Die fend orf. M

T. J. Meraz. ln sp
T. H. Patten
J. F. Garri ott
A. Miller. Jr.

M. E. Johnson. SW
J.B. Smith
G. H. Totten.

561

Mile.
Allow.

J. E. Wal ters, J W

556

81.20

Representatives

H . R. Riesc hel. SW

555

560

No. of
L odge

34 1

L. McC lur.:. lnsp
H. K . Fon.I

R B. Swift. JW
L. D . Ru,coni. Insp
W. D. Gun te r

J. E. Chambers. Jr., M.
H. Johnson. SW
1. E. Kerman
J. C. Cox

J. L. Tru,tham. M

Mile.
Al/ow.

C. C. Ross. :V1
G. V . Comt ant, SW
S. Fong. GBB
R R. Herdman
W. W. Barry
R. 0. Biedenbach
A. Burk.:
M. F. Co n klin
T. H. Jenkin'
U. E. No rdeen
S. C. Lee
T . P. Harri,, M
E. L. Land
L. B. Fergw.,o n
P. S. Boren

M. B. Schuck. JW
548

R eprescntatives

551

R. W. Onh, SW

R. L. Hiatl. JW
K. H. Copeland, Jr.
537

542

X0.60

S. Kimmel. M . . .
S. L. Raabe. SW
~t. Pamk). JW
\I. L. Meltzner
M. Toorcdman
A Lin sk
R Smith. SW . . . .
C. D. Harmon. JW
L. H. ~ollcr

529

No. al
Lodge

G R AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

563

J. R. Johnson. M....... . .
E. 0. Studebake r. Jr., SW
M . Shaikly, J W
W . Bo tto rff. Insp
L. B. B lack
C. E. Franklin

564

L. I. Schoenfeld. M
S. M. Berwick. SW
R. B. Bradway, JW
L. J. C amozzi
R. W. Cam pini
C. B. Munck

565

D. A. Sm it h. M...... . . . .
R. H. Viner, SW

80 .60

567

F. B. Thach, M..... . ....
W. C. Brewer. SW
S . Soto. JW
P. D. Bum s
J. F. Moore
L. S. Wo lfe

85 XO

568

~-S h u m SW
W. H. Van C leave

569

C. F. Lange, M. . . . . . . . . .
K. A. LaM anche , SW
M. A. Crill, JW
W. W. Beck , lnsp

~ . 00

572

E. W. Gibso n. M. . . . . . . . .
H. B uckle ~ . S W
E. J. Cumbey
W. F. Zimmerman

80.XO

574

G. A. Haslim. M. . . . . . . . .

104 .40

82 .XO

R. E . Raff. SW
G. 0. Glavis, JW
N. E. Hale
575

E. A. Boswonh, M. .. ....
R. D. Bos wonh, SW
G. J. Ondri cek, JW
W. M. Gordon

57 .4H

576

W . E. Stanley , SW..... . .

l llti .40

104.40

Mile.
Allow.

No. of
Lodge

G. L. Bardon, M ........ .
0. H. Larsen, SW
V. G. Hedlund
G. W. Page
J. S. Walters

82.80

589
590

W. M. Slagle, M ...... ...
W. R. Hartmann, SW
H . Schaffer, JW
M. R. Ingalls, lnsp
P. J. Rivers
S. C. DeWeese
R. A. Larson

80.60

R. D. Dodrill, SW ....... .
K. W. Meyser
L. Chapo
R. W. Rylander

17.20

580

H. I. Butler, SW . ..... ...
W. J. Crawford, Jr., JW
W. C . Leach, Jnsp
Z. Y. Coleman

105.40

581

J. R . Agan, M ......... . .
K. Haggard, SW
A. D. R. Blake, Jr. , JW
A. D. R. Blake, Sr.
S. R. Bauman

57.80

J. R. Nanny, JW ...... .. .
J. H. Crouch
D. L . Stephens

90.40

583

T . E. Colvard, M . ..... .. .
W. U. Woolley, SW
J. H. Brown

55.20

584

W. M. Teate, M . .. . ......
T. W. Birx
R. P. Burmeister
R.H . Mason
M. A. Pixley

80.60

585

C. Humphrey, M .........
R. A. J. Di Miceli, SW
R. F. Van Fossen

83.60

586

E. P. Brown, SW .... .....
W. E. Estep, JW
W. W. Reyburn

87.00

C. C. Girard, M ...........
M. 0. Glass, SW
H. L. German
F. C . Chan

80.80

D. M. Gossage, M ........
C. A. Reuter, JW

80.60

No. of
Lodge

577

578

579

582

587

588

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

342
Representatives

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

602

Not represented
E. H. Bowman, M .. .......
C. P. Brodell, SW
G. F. Stebbins, JW
W. E. Lewis, lnsp
R. Bowman
P. H. Van Dalsem

No. of
Lodge

87.20

603

Representatives

P. Sorensen, M ... ..... .. .
H. Levin, SW
H. Sand, JW
T. J. McKimson, GT
G. E. Outram
G. H. Himes

Mile.
Allow.
79.20

G. Ringsmith
T. M. Norgard, M ..... .. ..
E. F. Boesch , SW

592

A. S. Beddoe, M .... ... ...
J. Vernon, SW
A. Snow, JW

77.80

593

C. P. Bonds, M ...........
P. A. Baustian, SW
H. E. Barcus, JW
G. C. Gregory, Insp
L. J. McEldowney
M. V. Dearth
W. A. Souza

85 .80

594

R. Hyans, Jr., M .... ......
J. W. Wright, SW
G. R. Sproull, JW
P. D. Nowlin

85.80

A . B. Crum, SW ...... . ...
C. H. Miller, JW
R. W. Stine

80.60

M. Krcelic, M . ..... ..... .
H. C. R Raabe, SW
K . B. Krug, Jr., lnsp
P. W. Smith, Insp
A. 0 . Aamodt
A. W. Meese

82 .00

595

596

598

599

600

601

P. H. Nakanishi, SW ....... 285 .09
M. A. Gullion
L. C. Ondo
M. T. Luke
J. C. Thie, SW ...........
J.M. Roling , JW
K. A. Jacobson, JGW
P. G. Weston

82.20

W. L. Hanley, M ..... ... ..
R. T. Easley, SW
R. C. Eulberg, Insp
G . L. Coover
M. E. Amman

82.00

A. S. Hobbs, SW .. .. .....

50.00

F. M. Bixenstein, M .......
C . L. Gingerich , SW
W. H. Walley, JW
C. B. Little
H. H. Cooper
C. L. Nisbet
J. W. Young

80.60

615

D. R. Oltman, SW ........
J . S. Whitener, Jnsp
R. D. Siems

98 .00

L. C. Kennedy

17.00

A. E. Wheeler

604

D. L. Dodrill, M .... ... ...
D. Denbow, SW
L. G. Connelly, Jnsp

87.00

605

G. W. Graeser, SW ....... .
K. M. Nilsen, JW
R. B. Carrico
L. E. Crandall
G. M. Haley
A. F. Maclennan

80.60

607

A. J. LaSance, SW ..... ...
R. H. Mosher
C. J. Gentry

84.20

608

J. M. Robertson, M ........
C . R. Farrar, Jr., JW
M. N. Bristow
W. R. Worobe

82.00

609

F. J. Ausmus, Sr ...... .. . .
W. H. Jenkins, SW
J. H. Bradley, JW
H. L. Hall
H. D. Draper, Jr.

17.20

610

R. A. Camozzi, M .. .. . ... .
H. W. LeBlue

5.40

6ll

0. J. Townsend, M ....... .
B. H. Bird, SW
R. W. Ponder, JW
R. W. Thompson
R. N. Deter
C.R. Wells

78.60

612

0. J. Strembler, JW .. .. . ..
S. E. Harris, Insp
H. L. Taber
M. E. Schrock

83.40

613

J. F. Holloway, M ..... ... .
M. Sprague, SW
J. A. Chopelas, JW
F. L. Baker, lnsp
H. L. Evans

17.20

.

Mile.
Allow.

614

V. F. Cooper, ER
L. C. Basker, lnsp

591

No. of
Lodge
Representatives
F. P. Lemen

343

616
617
618

Not represented
D. H. Altimus, ER .... . ...

94.40

H. L. Newton, M .. .. . . ...
P. R. Miller, SW
G. Benoit, JW
C. W. W. Bailey
R. S. Clark
C. E. Dudgeon
C . A. Morgan

80.00

619

A. R. Wilson, Jr., SW ... ..
L. Dailey, JW

85.80

620

G. 0. Steven, M ... .... .. .
W . E. Boland, SW
C. A. Toemer, JW
W. A. Low
R. J. Davidson, Jr.
G . A. Prock, Sr.
H. K. Rankin
H. S. Fisher

104.40

J. W. Cowart, Jr., M .......

80.60

621

L. R. Stanley, SW

622

623

J. N. Roberts
0. R. Spivey
J. N. Roberts
E. D. Moen, M ...........
D.R. McQuitty, SW
W.W. Johnson, JW
R. B. Angell
H. A. Anderson
H. G. Commons
D. M. Sanchez
R. G. Warmuth
R. H. Dutwiler
H. Waterstone, M .........
A. Marks, SW
D. Bega, JW
A. Cadis
S. Chadnow
M. M. Rubin

80.60

80 .60

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. of
Lodge
625

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

0. P. Doty, M ............
K. Patton, SW
R. Schendel, JW
S. T. Miller
R. Follett
J. T. Oliver
H. E. Noguchi

82.80

626

H. E. Reynolds, M ........
R. B. Reynolds, SW
D. L. Bartlette, JW
F. N. McGrath, JGD

105.60

627

J. Waterhouse, M .........
R. R. Cannon, SW
B. W. Patterson, JW

82.20

J. C. Champion, M ........
T. Schuman, SW
E. Fishel, JW

79.20

628

Not represented

631

R. A. Anderson, ER ..... . .
M. J. Norton, Insp
R. A. Anderson
B. E. Rhodes

80.60

C. H. Milam, M ..........
0. E. Pleasants, SW
J. I. McCormick, JW
M. L. Coon, Insp
B. W. Buck
L. D. Ayers

104.40

R. E. Ulreich, M ..........
J. P. Rough, Sr., SW
T. 0. Moore, JW
C. C. Fouhse
J. J. DeMoor

73.20

634

V. A. Leef, SW ...........
G. Morgan-Browne

84.40

635

H. V. Kelvington, M ......
W. S. Weathers, JW
C.H. Grace

92.00

J. Weiner, M .............
H. Teman, SW
F. Levenson, JW
R. A. Crigler, PGM
H. D. Fong
I. J. Schwartz

80.60

W. F. Bekemeier, M .......
G. 0. Ingram, SW
G. W. Clark, JW
R. D. Kerr
J. W. Dryer, Jr.

80.20

633

636

637

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

T. M. Lassen
J. B. Watts
639

629

632

No. of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No. of
Lodge

Representatives

Mile.
Allow.

653

J.C. Finnan, SW ..........
J. J. Usselton, JW
G. M. Philbin

92.20

654

W. E. Sartin, M ...........
C. R. Stirewalt, SW

81.60

W. Mosley, M ............
D. L. Woodward, SW
I. W. Braden, JW
R. J. Epps
K. V. Johnson

85.80

656

J. T. Smith, M ............
G. E. Miller, SW
R. A. Cunningham, JW
P. Campbell, Insp

85.40

657

R. W. Bryden, SW .......
J. A. Halverson, JW

104.40

658

W. L. Scott, M ...........
G. Tennis, SW
J. Perez, JW
E. F. White

22.80

M. Varis, M .............
J. L. Abrams, SW
P. Rowe, JW
A. Oritz
A. Dvorin
G. Church, Jr. M ........ . .
F. R. Dawson, SW
J. A. Burns, JW

80.60

643

J. B. Leverett, M ..........
G. S. Allison, SW

85.80

644

R. Vickers, M ............
A. R. DeVore, SW
E. L. Cowan, JW
W. B. Marshall, Insp
A. J. Anderson

85.40

645

W. A. Stecker, SW ........
R. D. Gallareto, JW
M. L. Furman

86.00

647

R. D. Bankson, M ... . .....
S. Bayley, SW
E. J. Heitz, JW
H. I. Marietta
D. M. Albee, M ..........
H. J. Markus, Jr., SW
R. J. Pierce, JW
W.W. Piper
C. E. Henson
0. G. Pike
L. C. Cook
J. L. Ousley

82.80

659

W. E. Florence, JW .......
D. R. Laughton
R. E. Moffitt

84.80

90.80

660

N. W. Fisher, SW ........
G. A. Suarez, JW
A. A. McGee

83.80

661

R. D. Tumet M ..........

80.60

662

J. V. Bentley, M .........

80.60

642

648

650

651

652

655
68.00

J. J. Hamel, M ............
J. J. Holmes, SW
C. Yecsmen
H. W. Baruth
H.J. Cameron
A. B. Kutcher
R. Lee
W. G. Lee
J. W. Swank

80.60

W. J. Carter, M ...........
A. J. Marrazzo, SW
A. F. Koula, lnsp
F. W. Diestel
R. Hodge

6.40

J. F. Spangler, M .........
D. F. Devens, SW
R. T. Woodburn, Insp
E. H. Pollock

80.40

No. of
Lodge

P. D. Ahlf, M ............
R. L. King, Jr., SW
M. 0. Tognazzini, JW
I. D. Atkinson

74.40

665

J. Hart, M ...............
J. Faubel, JW

46.60

666

J. L. Anderson, M ........
F. G. Chester, SW
D. W. Anderson, JW
R. C. Read, lnsp
J. R. Vickers, Insp
K. E. Wood
G. R. Creekmur

77.60

Mile.
Allow.

667

J.M. Van Hoose, M ......
R. D. Hickam, SW
C. M. Farrell
R. L. Peterson

80.00

668

H. H. Morton, M .........
R. M. Braggins, SW
V. C. Mills

97.40

669

C. A. Graf, M ...........
P. G. Smith, SW
F. R. Mullins, JW
W. H. Reed, Insp
M. Dwight
0. J. Halversen
J. E. Walker

10.00

670

R. M. Biggers, M ........
W. L. Valle, SW
R. R. Frazier, Insp

82.60

671

A. L. Martin, M ..........
J. R. Green, SW
R. L. Broaddus, lnsp

92.60

672

J. E. Beal, M ............
R. C. Thomas, SW
D. G. McMyne, JW
C.R. Beck
W. B. Sorrells
J. H. Hom

91.00

673

E. L. Cook, M
J. F. Specht, SW
P. A. McHale, JW
F. A. Gates
A. A. Baker, Jr.
H. P. Elliott, Jr.
C. L. Foster
R. E. Mason
C. M. Prior
E.W. Quon
S. M. Tatarian
R: Van Heekeren

674

N. Saslow, M ............
T. Thompson, SW
D. Reinitz, JW
M. B. Glick, Insp
A. J. Sissons

85.80

675

G. E. Lewis, Sr., M ......
A. C. Sharp, JW
H. Coleman
R. Manning

18.20

676

T. L. Granger, M .........
M. K. Burdett, SW
M. Ely, JW

10.00

R. E. Jones, SW
H. G. Bucklew, JW
W.R. Helms
C. S. Barrett
W. G. Geer
S. R. Howell
P. R. Nichols
663

Representatives

345

346
C. R. Carpenter
G. C. Glendenning
R . W. Scott
R . Pfimnan
677

678

80.60

P. E. Bain, M .. ...... ....
T. J. Epkes, SW
H. Riley, JW
L. P. Bachtold
W. T. Dial

82 .00

Not represented

680

P. McKinstry, M .... .....
P. Tekawa, SW
J. R. Snyder, JW
C.H . Bailey, Insp
G. B. Low

681

683

M. F. Schuster, Insp.
A . H. Chung
J. M. Swan

P. L. Wright, M .. ... .... .
J . E. Pace , SW
E. 0 . Mueller, JW

679

682

W. N. Atkinson , SW ... . ..
M. W. Sako, JW

689

Not represented

690

W. L. Estabrook, M
W. A. Holmes, SW
R . J. Earl , JW
W. C. Simon
E. R. Baylis
80.60

C . Christy, M .. .... ... . ..
E. Gray, SW
G. Haller, JW
T . C. Fredericksen, Insp
D. M. Binkerd
G. Hilla

102.40

694

R . Earl , SW .. ...... ... ..

83 .00

695

F. E. Cooper, M . . ... . .. . .
R . A. Smith, SW
C . E. Zwartendyk, JW
V. Fontes

57.80

696

J . W. Boyns, SW .........
N. E. Macurda, JW

104.40

697

W. Mc Cosh, ER

698

R. M. Shalhoub, M . ... .. .
H . J. Safady, SW
W. S. Kisselburgh, GO

80.60

R . McMillan, M .... ... ...
H . D. Lemons, GL
E. R. Eley
A . C . Happel

85.80

700

G. V. Churchill, M . . ... ..
S. L. Lane, SW
E. W . Roberts, JW

36.60

701

H . A. Gustafson, SW ... .. .

60.00

702

P. R. Lopez, SW .........
F. L. Klusmann, JW
J. F .. Graham

82.40

692

Not represented
E. Hignen, M ... ... . . ....
C. S. Crooks, Jr. , SW
J. W. Wilson, JW
L. A. Gallagher, lnsp
V. B. Claypool
R. Higgins
L. E. Keyte
L. E. Perkins
D. E. Stringham
H. G. Torbett

83 .00

E. H. Mason, M . .. . .... . .
R. A. Stone, SW
H. W. Wallan, JW
W. D. Hanisch

42.20

84.60

685

R. L. Hardash, SW .. ... . .
P. H. Newquist, JW
R. J. Henville, lnsp
W. G. E. Irwin, Insp
K. Hooton
S . J. Collins

82.60
699

J. R. Sargent, M
C . D. Finley, SW
R. B. Hall, JW
F. W. Woodward
E. Wallace
S . G . Hinthome, SW . . . ...
T. A. Kanester, SW

693

99.40

703

W. W. Downie, M . ... . . ..
P. Nyhuis, SW
E . F. Hanson, JW
W.R. Cox
M. R. Harriman

705

CG. R. Joy
J. L. Wixon

706

B . Woodard, M
E. Persau, SW
G. Lozar
W. Naef
L. Wells

57.80

G. W. Gregory, M . . ......
E. C. Winnemore, SW
L. M. Horgan, JW
C . L. Keene, Jr.
M. Hamm
B. L. McDonald, M . . ... ..
D. P. Chalker, SW
D. D. Werb , JW

24.80

C . Dirdak, SW .... ... ....
G. Hess

687

688

691

684

686

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A. F. Bell, SW . .. ..... . ..
R. 0. Ruprecht, JW

38 .40

708

L. S. Eldon, M .... . .. . ...
W. B. Freely, SW
B. W. Kemper, JW
D. E. New

91 .60

709

D. H. Acamo, M
A. L. Rutter, JW
C . V. Mc Caul, Insp
L. F . Perldns, Insp
E. C. Will, Insp
J. H. Vanden Bos

17.20

K. M. Jacob , SW
A. S . Harbin, JW
O.D . Akin
T. H. Nelson
F. R. Carman

80.80

707

347

717

W . F. Townsend, M .. ....
B. L . Allsman, SW
E. W. Heverly , JW

82.60

718

D . A. Hull, Jr. , M ........
R. R . Shapro , JW
V. A. Christensen
E . F. Russell

14.40

719

0 . C. Rieder, M . ....... . .
W. H. Minor, Jr., SW
P. Sparks, JW
S . A. Gerrard
J. T. Beckley
A. C. Twinem

44 .80

721

I. R . Brown, M ... .. .... .

78.00

M. Linn, JW
D. Burton
722

J. Desoto, M ..... .. . .. . ..
D. M. Baldrige, Sr., SW
E. T. Bicknell , JW
G. W. Daines

723

G. C. Hargrave, M
J. B. Williams, SW
E . R. Quinby , JW
D. M. Shull

724

A. C. Murphy, M ... ......
J. V. Shahbazian

6.60

10.60

J . C. French, M . .... . ....
S. W. Doran, JW
W. J. Berry

75.20

D. L. Redelberger, M .... .
J. Wheelock, SW
J . Grable, JW
J. D. Williams, lnsp

93 .80

712

A. J. Miller, M .. . . .. .....
J. Romero, SW
G. Gerbrandt, JW
R. S. Everett

7.80

725

R. J. Korevec, M .... ... ..
D. M. Robertson, SW
T . H. Kammerer, JW
R. Kerr

6.20

713

C. L. Athey, Jr. M .... . . . .
M. D. Gettler, SW
H. 0 . Armstrong, JW
R. K. Smith

5.00

726

H. Gleim, SW . . . .. .... ..
J. H. Shaffer
R. B. Lawrence

93 .60

727

C . P. Bred!, Jr , M
J. Damante, SW

715

S . A. Arldn, M .. . . . . .. .. .
V . K. Bailey, SW
R . J. Haaker, JW
R. E. Swann
R. L. Swann
G. D. Shepard

79.20

J. P. Knopp, Jr., M . .... ..
C . B. Swope, Jr., SW
J.E. Sloan, Insp
K. Barrette
0 . M. Mc Cartney

80.00

714

728

85.80

D. L. Thompson, M . . . . ...

85.80

C. M. Winnernore, M ... ..
R. E. Goossen , SW
R . L. Tevis, JW
G. W. John, Insp
K. Hemphill

710

711

716

348
729

R. S. Williams, M ........
F. L. Hooper, SW
L. T. Hanlon

84.20

H. D. White, M ..........
G. Kutuvinis, SW
M. L. Purdy, JW
E. E. Seagle, AGL
E. K. Trousdale

17.20

731

R. C. Fisher, M ..........
V. L. Massey

83.00

732

J. P. Sturgeon, M ..... . ...
R. E. Dunn, SW
W. R. Swope, JW
R. E. Lewis
H. Leise

17.80

J. Leong, M .............
E. Axelson, SW
H. Norton, JW
K. Chase
R. Gibson
H. Hansen
J. Robinson

17.20

H. W. Denney, M ........
J. W. Graham, SW
M. R. Hand, JW
G. R. Larsen

17.20

735

M. L. Van Dyke, SW .....
G. W. Steil

102.80

736

D. M. Schaufler, SW ......
J. D. Gammon, Jr., JW
A. Hutchings

106.60

730

733

734

737

J. F. Long, M ............
N. Simmons, SW
K. Pfhul, JW
T. A. Durham, Jr.

82.20

743

w. c. Roe, M ...........
C. D. O'Connell, SW
C. F. Kumpe

80.40

744

R. D. Carson, M
H. H. Boggs, SW
F. E. Pike, JW
J. W. Parker

742

745

15.20

747

W. A. Hague, SW ........

105.60

748

D. L. Patterson, M ........
W. L. Runnels, SW
W. A. Cornell, JW
R. L. Burkeybile

90.80

R. E. Heiland, SW ........
D. Vining, JW
C. L. Green, Insp

25.60

750

H. L. Roberts, M .........
M. 0. Nicks, SW

86.20

751

H. Jaques, M ............
W. C. Wharton, SW
C. E. Rechsteiner, JW
W.R. Moore
R. W. Bussman
G. J. Roth
W. M. Standley

5.60

R. Barnes, M ............
L. Poore, SW
D. Priest, JW
J. Van Skike
J. Friedrichsen
E. Lessard
L. A. Richards

I0.80

H. L. Ives, M
E. J. Rink, Jr., SW
L. M. Moore
P. Cassidy
W. Gross, Jr.
J. W. Harrison, M .... . ...

62.40

739

D. E. Lewis, SW .........
H. W. Lasley, JW

80.40

740

L. F. Budar, SW .........
J. D. Ramsey, JW
S. Nakamatsu, Insp
A. F. Prenger
I. S. Elliott

82.80

R. C. Robertson, M .......
S. M. Allaway, SW
L. C. Hanna, JW
J. I. Mendenhall

83.60

M. L. Hollen, M
D. E. Bottenberg, SW
R. R. Scneder
G. W. Nance
R. E. Humeston, M .......
C. H. Winn, SW
R. J. Belt
W. M. Wong

746

749

738

741

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

752

753

Not represented

754

L. A. Sanchez, M
P. Lemos, SW
C.D.Harris

755

W. M. Sanderson, SW .....

82.00

756

W. M. Jackson, M ........
R. E. Dalton, SW
J. W. Hope, JW
L. C. Parr
L. M. Hauk
J. C. Jacobson
H. L. Rutan

6.20

757

G. W. Lokey, Sr., M ... . ..
H. C. Mc Fadden
J. H. Tanaka

15.60

758

E. G. Stoyer, SW .........
F. H. Mecklenburg, JW
L. 0. Mason, Jnsp
J. L. Hawkes
D. D. Holm
H. W. Meyerinck, Jr.

84.40

759

H. C. Seynei, M ..........
R. Paquette, SW
J. H. Gordon

83.00

760

H. L. Pinkham, M ........
L. L. Bragg, SW
J. E. Mikol. Insp

106.40

A. K. Hartsog, M .........
C. G. Lessing, SW
A. W. Horwege, JW
D. D. Wilcox
W. F. Davis
R. F. Locke, Jr.
T. J. McWilliJ!m

7.80

761

762

H. A. Day, SW
C. W. Howell

763

S. Shaheen, SW ..........
T. Haddad, JW
R. Mc Karns

80.00

764

H. Cagan, M .............
J. A. Harris, JW
C. F. Guyson

78.00

s. E. Eya, M ............

84.60

765

H. Fennel, SW
C. J. Echelberger
766

D. F. Russell, M .........

83.00

767

R. L. Hart, M ............
C. M. Mc Knight, SW
P.A. Grubb

80.60

768

W. J. Zieger, M ..........
D. L. Dustin, SW

77.60

349

H. M. Crosthwaite, JW
E. J. Walker
769

L. C. Macy, M ...........
W. G. Henneberger, SW
W. G. Mc Calip, JW
G. E. Halverstadt
V. E. Browning
W. B. Burleson
B. 0. Nakashima
H. A. Macy

77.40

770

G. H. Burch, M ..........
J. Robertson, JW
K. Huffstutter

5.00

771

C. G. Knight, Jr., M ......
J. 0. Collier, Jnsp
J. L. Rogers

104.40

772

Not represented

773

C. L. Kilby, M ...........
V. V. Miller, SW
L. D. Livermore, JW
J. G. Martinez

774

H. Bonney, SW .......... 285.09
W. K. Mc Kee, Jr., Insp

775

F. A. Exner, JW ..........
G. R. Grosz

100.20

776

G. A. Pieper, M ..........
N. S. Barber, Jr., SW
E. F. Iannone, JW
0. 0. Bridges

82.60

57.80

777

H. Zechman, M ...........

26.40

778

T. C. Wallace, M .........
J. B. Jarrett, SW
R. J. Lamb, JW
B. H. Hamlett, Insp
R. L. Riemer
E. G. Vanpelt

84.60

779

V. L. Dellavalle, M .......
F. A. Williams, SW

85.80

780

G. K. Bulk, M ............
B. A. Gerpheide; JW
J. B. Patterson , Insp ·

80.40

781

V. T. Carbone, M .........
B. C. Johnson, JW
W. W. Garrison

85.40

782

H. H. Troup, M ...........
J. W. Kennedy
R.H. Bantz

9.40

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

783

R. A. Moore, M . .... .... .
R. E. Moore

70.00

784

F. Gore, SW ....... . .....
C. Anderson, JW
L. D. Sine

32.40

785

G. M. Britten , M . .........
W. L. Grant, Jr., SW
K. W. Coe, JW

82.00

786

J. Wilson, M .. . ..........
W. E. Lewis, SW
K. E. Wilson, JW
J. E. Smith

20.00

C. W. Canedy , M .. ..... ..
J.B . Lee, SW
W. R. Nelson, Jr.
R. F. Bigelow, M'... ......
K. E. Wilson, JW
R. E. Monge, M . . ........
E. P. Gonsalves, SW
J. C. Richey, JW
J. K. Wilson, GM
C. W. Rinehart
R. Q. Twaddell
C. Delaney

89.20

H. E. Barr, M . ..... . .... .
R. Curiel, SW
J. M. Yeager, JW
R. L. Lawson, lnsp
M. E. Balser
D. R. Wheaton

77.00

E. Collins, Jr., SW ..... . ..
C. C. White
F. B. Brasfield

74.40

787

788
789

790

791

792

793

794

795

796

797

798

40.80
17.20

W. T. Gardner, M
D. Ellsworth, JW
T. F. Hoey
M. C. Snyder
E. R. Sorenson
P. F. Reyes, M . . . ... ... . .
A. Martinez, JW
0. V. Celaya

80.60

A. Andersen, M .. .. ... . ..
P. McGinley, SW
T. W. Heidner, Insp
J. Dingeldein

82.00

L. W. Melton , M .. . .. . ... .
E. C. Noland, SW
H. E. Robbins, JW

20.20

H. D. Hanawalt, Jr.
H. D. Hanawalt
S. E. Noland
B. E. Parker
W. G. Sandoval
W. L. Mc Gill, Jr., M ......
H. F. Puthoff
T. E. Armstrong
L. B. Segarra, M . .. ... . . ..
R. Segarra, SW
J. Beranek, JW
J. 0. Fangon
C. M. Berg

L. E. Martner, JW
E. A. Bettati

90.80

C. Mainster, M . ..........
P. B. Florio

82 .20

J. M. Palmer, Jr., M . . .....
A. S. Giambra, SW
F. S. J. Hancock, II, JW

86.20

824

W. E. Cummings, M ... ... .
F. S. Hackett, SW
F. J. Potter, JW

77.00

810

T. A. Jefferson, M . . . .....
F. G. Eaves, SW
M. F. Quigley, JW
F. N. Spears

92.00

825

6.60

811

R. V. Franco, M . .... ... ..
J. G. Niles, SW
N. D. Knapp , JW
F. C. Michel, Jr.

78.60

A. Groulx, M . . .... . .... .
J. G. Gitales, SW
F. M. Blauvelt, JW
R. L. Stephens
J. F. Ziegler

826

R. T. Kiele, M .. .. . .. .. . ..
F. F. Wilson, JW
R. D. Pillow, Insp

104.20

812

D. Zirkle, M ... .... ......
M. Smyre, SW
M. H. Rush, Jr.

82.00

827

69 .80

813

D. J. Bowers, M .. . ...... .
K. S. Flinn, SW
L. K. Herendeen, Insp
A. B. Ivie
0. C. Heximer

74.20

D. E. Yeargan, M . . . . . . ...
B. P. Robinson, SW
E. P. Baird, JW
R. W. Williams

828

E. L. Benton, M .. . ...... .
W. W. Blazer, SW
L. E. Colteryahn
W. J. Williams

87.40

J.C. Fox, M .. . . .. . . .....
G. B. Settlemyer, SW
H. P. Rio, JW
W. G. Browne
A. Dvorin

80.60

80.60

H. A. Nelson, M
R. Reck, SW
R. Gill, Jr. JW
A. R. Perryman
W. V. Davis
P. G. Meier

823

809

799

G. S. Blackbum . .. . . .. ...
W. S. Hertig, Sr. , SW
S. Green

104.40

800

R. C. Wolford, M .. ...... .
D. E. Brown, SW

83.20

801

B. E. Scott, SW . . .. .. . . . . . 285.09
J. P. Dennehy
A. J. Pancook

815

G. R. Wallin, SW .........

802

L. E. Peters, SW ..... .. ...
C. F. Rich, JW

86.80

97.40

816

D. G. F. Lee, M . .. ..... ..
J. J. Quaid, J'jl

79.20

803

L. R. Harrison, SW . ... ....

21.60

818

F. R. Robson, M .... .... . .
J . W. Powell, SW

94.80

805

D. L. Griffiths, M . .. ... ...
R. E. Lucas, SW
D. W. Harding, JW
M. J. Bowd
S. C. Henzel

83 .40

R. L. Nelson, M ..........
M. Waxman, JW
R. R. Gambriell
H. E. Sargent
J. R. Stewart

9.00

804

819

D. A. Muller, M . ..... .. . .
G. L. Young, SW
A. E. Fraser

80.60

820

R. M. Hill, M . .. ..... ....
J. C. Way, SW
B. B. Tilden
K. Neumann

77.00

807

J. Michaelson, M .. . . .....
R. E. Leiser, JW
H. I. Smith

77 .00

H. M. Shepard, M .... ... ..
R. E. Johnson, SW
A. F. Rudd, JW
L. E. Lowry, Jr.
P. Todd
W. H. Johnson

91.60

806

821

D. Kikas, M .. . ..... ... ..
J. A. Clemett, JW

24.00

H. L. Fagan, M ..... . . . ...
M. A. Dymond, SW

16.40

822

L. T. Hamilton, M .. .. . .. .
J. 0. Fourr, Insp
W. R. Hawk

76.20

808

351

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

814

TOTAL

$35,310.23

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

w

With Membership, Charter Dates, Degree Fees, Affiliation Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, per Capita Payments and
Candidates' and Affiliates' Contributions.
Grand Lodge per capita includes $2.00 for Grand Lodge plus $1 .00 for the Masonic Homes, $0.35 for publication, California
Freemason, and Degree Fees.
Candidates' and Affiliates' contributions includes homes contribution of $25.00, Geo. Wash. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and
California Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Number of members applies to the year ending June 30, 1974.
For location of Lodges, see Alphabetical List of Lodges.
Lodge

No.

Members

Charter
Issued

I
2
3
5
8
9

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853

100
65
100
75
75
75
75
125
50
75
100
100
75
125
125
75
100
78
50
100
75

1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
8154
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
50
1856

125
100
50
75
JOO
50
100
JOO
75.
150
75
100
125
50
65
60
115
50
75
100
50
75
75
100
50
100
75
50
85
85
86
50
JOO
90
50
5
50

Degree

Affil.

Fees

Fees

Dues

lnit .

P._.scd

Raised

20
10

18
15
15
24
18
24
18
25
16
20
18
15
12
15
15
15
18
18
20
25
15

2
6
13
3
8
I
5
II
8
2
7
2
3
15
9
2
4
6
2
9

I
6
11
4
9
I
5
6
I
2

2
5

18
15
12
20
20
12
16
20
21
21
12
15
20
12
15
15
30
15
18
25
15
20
20
15
16
15
15
20
12
18
16
25
12
16
15
16

I
I
4
3
21
5
JO
15
5
15
8
2
2
3
I
I
7
3
12
5
4
1
II
11
3
6
5
1
2
3
3
2
9
5
2
2

G.L.
Per Capita

Candidales
Affiliales
Contrb.

Ul
N

"':;o0

(")

California . ........ . .. . ..
Western Star ... . ...... .. .
Tehama . ...... . ........ .
Benicia . . .. . . . . . . . .. . ...
Tuolumne ........ ... . . ..
Corinthian . . . ..... . .. . . . .
San Jose . .. .. . ..........
Yount ..... ..............
Nevada ... ..... . .. . .....
Temple . . ...............
Eureka ..... . .. ...... . ...
La Parfaite Union .........
Mountain Shade ...... . ...
San Joaquin .......... .. . .
Washington . . . .... . . .. . ..
Hawaiian . . . . . . . . ... . . . . .
Occidental ....... ... . . ...
Madison . . ... . . .. . ... ... .
Mariposa . . ... . ... . ..... .
Georgetown . . . . .. . ...... .
El Dorado ...............

12
13
14
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26

314
252
693
230
327
374
451
497
231
318
412
87
50
646
753
346
410
330
193
79
321

Trinity . . .. . .... ... . .. . ..
Golden Gate Speranz.a .. ...
Gold Hill . . . . . ..... . .....
Ophir ... . ...............
San Diego ... . . . . ........
Howard ...... .. . ........
Santa Cruz ...............
Sacramento . .. ...........
Maninez . . . . ............
Los Angeles . .......... . .
Hiram . . .. .. ... ..... . ...
Mount Moriah ... . . .......
Crescent .... . . ... .... ... .
Texas . ... . . . ... .. . . . . . . .
Forbestown ... . . .. . . .. ...
Illinoistown .... . .. .. .. .. .
Suisun . . . .. . . . . .. .... . ..
Volcano ... ...... .. . .....
Santa Rosa .. ... . ........
Union .. .... .............
Gravel Range ............
Plumas ... . . .............
Live Oak .. ..............
Natoma ... ..............
Amador . .. ...... . . .... . .
Morning Star ... . ...... ...
Enterprise .. .... .. .... . . .
Bear Mountain .. . . . .. .. ..
Calaveras ........ . . . .....
Humboldt . .... .. . . .... . .
Ione ......... ... . .......
Yolo . ... ........ . .. .....
Vesper ...... ............
Naval . . . . . ..............
Rose's Bar . . .............
North Star . ......... . ....
St. Helena ... ............

27
30
32
33
35
37
38
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
64
65
68
70
76
78
79
80
81
84
87
89
91
93

156
490
119
130
I J08
264
507
691
352
1155
165
212
197
74
149
70
319
149
632
552
J09
164
675
412
J05
569
366
82
128
444
102
89
241
892
99
1856
117

IO

IO

2
5
5
2
15
5
10
JO
25
-

-

5
10
2
JO
I
I
JO

-

IO

JO
JO
10
5
5
5
JO
5
10
2
I
5
5
5
3
JO
5

-

JO
5
24
2

3
2
II
4
3
5
4
2
8

4
12
I
7
6
I
2
12
I
2
15
5
4
4
2
8

3
4
3

3
3
3

IO

-

-

20
6
7
12
3
23
4
I

-

IO

2

-

6
5
II
3
2
2
II
7
2
4
4
2
2
2
2
1
2
9
4
1
2

-

23
4
6
13
3
35
5
I
I
2
I
7
3
9
2
2
1
12
JO
2
8
4
1

-

2
I
1
2
7
3
383.05
1

1043.50
854.50
2355.55
816 .50
1107.70
1280.90
1491.00
1772.90
736.95
1166.30
1424.JO
291.45
243.50
2179.30
2546.80
1202.05
1368.45
1168.45
618.85
270.65
1097.00

526.25
1632.75
436.95
470.15
3857.35
845.80
1722.95
2353.05
1183.50
3991.85
874.75
704 . 15
716.20
359.90
522.75
235.50
1181. 90
608.45
2279.15
1878.95
513.15
546.70
2381.65
1408.20
463.75
2114.05
1270.75
278 .70
426. JO
1502.60
347.70
300.15
845.00
3039.65
378.65
456.90

70.00
235 .00
455 .00
70.00
330.00
60.00
175 .00
365 .00
280.00

tTl
tTl

0

z

0(/)
0

'Tl

-l

::i:
tTl

235.00
70.00
575.00
280 .00
70.00
105 .00
270.00
70.00
315 .00

35 .00
35.00
105.00
95.00
930.00
175.00
365 .00
550.00
200.00
505.00

-

70.00
35.00
210.00
305.00
155 .00
60.00
245.00
4JO.OO
25 .00
190.00
35.00
70.00
70.00
105.00
60.00
165.00
245 .00
-

0

~

z

0

r

0
0

~
0

'Tl
(")
)>

r

'Tl

0

~

>

w
w

Ul

Candidates
Charter
Lodge

No.

Member>

Issued

Henry Clay ... ... .. .. ... .
Homitos . ... .. .. ... .. .. ..
Yosemite ... .. .. ....... . .
Clay .. ... . .... .. .. . ... ..
Oroville ... . ...... ... ... .
Lexington .......... . .. ..
Arcata . . .. .... .. .. . .. .. .
Pajaro ......... .........
Chico .. .. .. .. ... ...... . .
Summit ... .. .. .. . ... .. ..
Eden .. . .. ....... . .. . .. .
Concord .......... .......
Fidelity .... . ... .... .. .. .
Alamo ...... .. ...... ... .
Sotoyome ......... ......
Table Mountain. . . . . . . . . . .
La Fayette ..... . ... . .....
Hermann .. .. .. ....... . ..
Visalia . . .......... . .....
Nicolaus ........ .. ... . ..
\Voodbridge ... . .... . .....
Sincerity . ... . ....... . ...
Vacaville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Valley .......... ........
Lebanon-Pacific .. ........
Part-Crock ett .......... ..
Curtis ...... . .......... ..
Grafton . .. .. . ... .. . ... ..
Franklin . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Oriental . . .......... . .. ..
Vitruvius .......... ......
Abell.... .. .. ... .. ......
Eel River . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Lassen .......... . .......

95
98
99
IOI
103
104
106
110
111
112
113
117
120
122
123
124
126
127
128
129
131
132
134
135
136
139
140
141
143
144
145
146
147
149

94
105
459
97
358
585
299
347
569
88
409
314
561
453
222
413
215
132
498
141
203
79
304
99
697

90
92
119
232
110
319
252
208

1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1857
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1858
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862

Molino .. .. .......... .... 150
\Voodland .......... ..... 156
Keystone ... .. .. .. .. ... . . 161
Harmony ......... . ...... 164
San Francisco .......... .. 166
Alameda . ....... .. ...... 167
Redwood City .......... .. 168
Mission .......... ...... . 169
Elk Grove .......... ..... 173
Drytown . . ........ . ..... 174
Antioch .......... ....... 175
Phoenix . ... ..... .. ...... 178
Mendocino ....... . .... .. 179
Petaluma ..... .... ... .... 180
Russian River ....... ... .. 181
Arbuckle . ... .......... .. 182
Clear Lake . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 183
Sierra Valley ... ... ... ... . 184
Claiborne .......... . ..... 185
Evening Star .. . ....... . .. 186
Keith .. .. .. .. .......... . 187
Oakland .......... ..... .. 188
Northern Light .. .. . ...... 190
Marin .......... ......... 191
Santa Barbara . . .......... 192
Ferndale ... . .. ..... .... .. 193
Mountain View .. .. . ...... 194
Buckeye .......... ....... 195
San Simeon .......... .. . . 196
Wilmington . .. ... . ... .. .. 198
Hartley .......... ........ 199
Truckee .......... .... . .. 200
Silveyville .......... . . . . . 201
Pentalpha .......... ...... 202
Confidence .......... .... 203
Salinas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Olivet ... ......... ....... 205

138
311
49
31
549
382
586
435
157
64
369
641
85
301
123
65
180
84
77
73
166
499
116
433
351
82
392
112
102
568
258
120
133
303
Ill
530
134

1862
1863
1863
1864
1864
1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870

565

Degree
Fees

Aftil.
Fees

50

10
10

90
90

-

50
100
125
75
75
90

5
-

50
105
Il5
100
75
75
80
75
100
75
75

10
15

-

2
20

5
5
-

50
50

12
20

100
75
75

5
-

50
75
100
75

5

10

-

50
50

-

100

50
50
50
50

I

I

I

2
7
3

12
4
II
7
3
7

15
4

I

I

IO
10
4
6
3

11
IO
4
9
3
4
8

2
6
3
4
13
6
6
6
I
2
2
14
7
4
10
4
3
4

I

I

5

5
5
4
-

2

5
II
3

5

3

-

2

-

-

I

3

3

I

I

7
2

9
4

4
I
9

5

I

-

-

2

I

5

5

4
6
2
3

3
4
3
3

4
3
3
2
2

5

2
7
2

I

I

I

4

20

20
18
24
20

5

3
3
2
8
2

2
3
2
8
2

5
-

-

5
5
5
I

25

5
5
2

75
90
100
100

-

50

-

I

5
10

5
25
-

-

IO

-

-

-

8
2
-

I
16
14
4
I
13
IO

-

6
3

-

-

I
I
2

-

5

12
6

-

5

-

3
3
2

6
4

-

2

3
16
9
3
4

-

II
4

-

5

-

I

4
3
2

-

3
6
2
8

-

2
7
2

-

I

-

7
3
6
9
2

2
IO

2
16
12
I

3
6

-

I

2

20

IO

50

2

8
-

5

50
65
75
75
100
80
75

100
85
75
125
65
90
90
100
75
105

16
12
15
16
15
18
20
18
15
12
22
18
20
18
15
21
20
24
20
18
20
18
20
18
20
18
15
12
25
15
20
24
12
25

Raised

10

2

5
5
5
I
50

50
50
50
50

Passed

lnit.

20
15
16
12
18
16
18
18
24
20
24
16
18
18
20
18
24
12
18
20
24
18
18
20
24
18
15
20
15
16
15
20

-

100
102
100
100.

50

5
I

135
115

115

5
5

Dues

5
4
I

3
6
3

-

I
7
I
6
6
I
7
3
8
3

G.L.
Per Capila

413.90
349.05
1555.30
330.95
1409.95
1969.60
1015.65
1256.00
1891.15
292.10
1396.05
1045.85
1935.95
1622.85
762.35
1680.15
824 .95
629.20
1726.30
502.35
725.05
300.65
1093.25
369 .65
2342 .85
1973.75
286.80
308.20
403 .65
812.85
371.80
1148.30
851.20
814.70

667.95
1371.85
205.15
I03 .85
1801.60
1310.95
1964.30
1437.80
535.60
250.40
1252.05
2180.40
284.75
1042.60
452.05
217.75
597.60
306.65
323.90
244.55
546.35
1888.80
388.25
1453.80
1202.40
275 .70
1342.80
484.20
347.00
1985 .75
967.30
433.30
451.20
1009.30
364.50
1765.00
524.90

VJ
V1

Affiliates

~

Contrb.

305.00
445 .00
140.00
315.00
260.00
130.00
235.00
60.00
340.00
315 .00
155.00

-0

:;i::i

0

(j

tTl
tTl

Q
z

-

0

(/)

-

0

400.00
105.00
165.00

'Tl

-1

::t
tTl

35.00
175.00
60.00
70.00
200.00
140.00
140.00
70.00

35.00
35 .00
585 .00
455.00
140.00
480.00
280.00

-

175.00
70.00

105.00
-

60.00

210.00
130.00

-

0

:;i::i

~

0

r

0
0
0

tTl

0

'Tl
(j

:>
r

;;

0

:;i::i

z
;;;:

270.00
210.00
245.00

165.00
175.00
105.00
245.00
25.00

VJ
V1
V1

CaOOidates
Members

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affil.

No.

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Raised

Stanislaus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
Anaheim ...... .. . . . . .... 207
Rio Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 208
King David's ..... . .. . .... 209
Friendship ..... . .. . .... . . 210
San Benito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211
South San Francisco ...... . 212
San Buenaventura . ... . . . .. 214
Oak Grove ..... ... . .. .... 215
Monterey ... . ... . . ..... .. 217
Mosaic .. .. . .. . . . ... .... . 218
Downey . . . . . ............ 220
Inyo . . .. ... . .. ...... . . . . 221
Roseville ... . .. ......... . 222
Bakersfield ... . . ... . . .. . . 224
Brooklyn ..... ..... . ... .. 225
San Mateo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
Athens . . .. .. . ... ... . .... 228
Solano . .... . ............ 229
North Butte . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230
Covelo . . . ..... ........ .. 231
Janesville ...... . . . . .. .. . . 232
Calistoga ..... . . ...... ... 233
Hope . . . . .. ........ ..... 234
Surprise Valley . . . . . . . . . . . 235
Hills Ferry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 236
Guadalupe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 237
Colusa . ....... .. . .... ... 240
Santa Ana....... .... . . .. 241
Magnolia ....... ..... .... 242
Eucalyptus .... ..... ... . .. 243
Alcatraz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 244
Laurel .. ... .. . .. ....... . 245
Pomona . .... .. . ..... .... 246

550
512
159
380
597
156
221
426
422
254
321
640
128
549
629
289
520
195
376
306
60
131
106
93
96
152
271
153
524
562
495
357
199
372

1870
1870
1870
1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877

115
I05
100
IOO
115
65
95
IOO
100
75
LOO
125
50
75
100
75
100
90
75
75
50
75
50
50
75
75
75
50
75
100
99
75
50
115

-

48
18
18
15
18
20
15
18
18
24
18
50
25
15
22
21
24
15
24
18
15
18
18
18
15
12
20
18
21
24
30
20
18
20

5
9
2
4
5
I
5
8
3
5
9
IO

6
9
I
4
LI

7
11
I
2
11

-

-

9
7
6
3
9
19
I
21
6

8
5
8
4
9
15
I
20
7

Fresno ........ .. ... . . . .. 247
Alturas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 248
Adin ....... .. ......... . . 250
Landmark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 253
Reading. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 254
Welcome . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 255
Lodi ... .......... ..... .. 256
Penrhyn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 258
Evergreen... . . .. . ... . .. . 259
King Solomon' s Seaport ... 260
Tuscan ... . .. . ......... . . 261
Lompoc . ... . . .... .. . ... . 262
Hesperian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 264
Orland . ......... ..... ... 265
Galt . .. . ........ . . ... ... 267
Durant .. ....... .. . ...... 268
Olive Branch . . . . . . . . . . . . . 269
Snow Mountain . . . . . . . . . . . 271
Pasadena . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 272
Anchor . . . ... . .. ..... . . . . 273
Arroyo . .. ....... .. .. . . . . 274
Oakdale. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 275
Selma .. .. . .............. 277
Southern California . . . . . . . . 278
Hanford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 279
Madera . . . . .. ... . ....... 280
Mount Shasta.. . ...... ... 281
Calayorni . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 282
South West. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 283
Paso Robles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 286
Winnedumah . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287
Mallwell ......... . ...... 288
Elsinore . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289
East Gate. . ..... . .. ..... . 290
Santa Paula . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 291
Los Gatos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
Orange Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . 293

564
156
90
97
372
196
376
142
613
431
74
382
430
171
108
230
246
46
393
438
229
218
190
264
209
245
188
61
523
312
238
54
121
400
385
464
444

1878
1878
1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888
1888
1889

80
65
50
50
90
100
75

Lodge

so·

75
115
50
100
75
50
50
80
75
75
115
125
75
75
80
75
100
75
90
75
I05
75
100
75
75
75
90
100
100

26

I
5

I
IO

I

5
10
-

IO
-

-

IO
5
5
5
IO
I
IO
5
-

-

1
2
1
-

-

3

-

-

-

5

2
5
5

I

5

I
3

10
1

18
18
12
16
30
30
20
12
24
18
18

23
9
4
2
4
7
2
I
I
3

20

18
21
20
15
23
18
25
12
24
21
21

-

4
4
11
IO
5
3
1
8

13
6
6
6
8
7

-

-

6
3
1
2
I
2

6
4
2
5
I

-

-

9
2

-

5
2
3
6
2

-

20

18
18
15
20
25
12
25
20
20
24
20
18
18

-

-

I
I

-

1

-

-

I

4
8
II
3
3
2
7

1
8
13
5
2
2
5

6
I

6
2

14
9
4
3
6
5
5
7
4
2

I
3
8
3
1
3

5
2
8
6
2
3
6
5
5
2
13
2
4

JI
3
3

-

-

2
3
9
13
8

3
2
9
7
10

5
4
2
1

14
9
2
2
7
3
I
4
5
4
I

I
-

-

2
3
8
2
I
2
6
3
3

11
3
3

-

2
2
9
5
IO

G.L.
Per Capita

Affiliates

1873.55
1720.75
568.30
1322.95
2050. 15
601.90
893 .80
1437.05
1418.85
894.55
I038.70
2122.50
417 .40
1931.45
2164.15
944.70
1736.90
686.20
1255.20
1144.75
199.30
429.80
358.IO
350.55
304 .85
510.20
930.IO
518.20
1790.60
1921.55
1669.45
1198.80
638 . 15
1306.10

I05.00
340.00
35.00
190.00
175 .00

1881.75
535.80
298.15
294.80
1327.05
712.25
1293.25
518.35
2137.85
1492.00
238.85
1269.70
1470.45
561.75
364.80
796.45
812.35
150.75
1507.80
1455.20
816.15
787.85
640.50
848.85
880.40
819.35
664.75
204.00
1805.30
1049.85
842.30
177.55
412.35
1316.85
1481.70
1664.35
1568.70

Contrb.

355.00
105.00
250.00
415.00
375.00
25 .00
770.00
280.00
215.00
35.00
175.00
165.00
70.00
35.00
35.00
70.00

VJ
VI
0\

"I:)

~

0
(")
m
m
0

~

Vl

0

'Tl

-!

::i::

m

130.00
140.00
375.00
390.00
200.00
I05.00
35.00
270.00

280.00
35 .00

4IO.OO
175.00
235.00
175.00
260.00
175.00
235 .00
130.00
35.00
70.00
70 .00
70.00
305 .00
140.00
95.00
I05.00
130.00
200.00
140.00
70.00
470.00
120.00
105 .00
70.00
I05.00
140.00
4IO.OO
370.00

Cl
~

>
z

0

50
Cl

m

~
(")

->
r'

~

~

z

>

VJ
Vo
-..J

No.

Members

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Aftil.
Fees

Traver .... . ...... . ...... 294
Mount Jackson . . . . . . . . . . . 295
Silver Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 296
Dunsmuir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 297
Liberty ... ... . ........... 299
Redlands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 300
Ontario . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 I
Santa Lucia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Porterville ........ .. ..... 303
Reedley ....... ..... ..... 304
Azusa .... .. . ............ 305
Ashlar ... .... ...... ..... 306
Santa Monica ... ...... . . . 307
Monrovia ... ............. 308
Delano ........... . ...... 309
Sisson ..... ............. 310
Los Banos. ...... .... .... 312
Tehachapi . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 313
Temescal .. . ............. 314
Norwalk . . . . . .. ......... . 315
Sanger .................. 316
Fallbrook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Hollenbeck .............. 319
South Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 320
Alisa! ... ................ 321
Alhambra ................ 322
Whittier.. ... . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Corona .............. .. . . 324
Consuelo ............ . ... 325
Needles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 326
Long Beach .............. 327
Redondo ................ 328
Vallee de France .......... 329
Kilauea ................. 330

132
112
967
191
397
453
466
138
480
144
306
283
318
223
196
80
162
165
284
552
264
211
435
328
228
515
574
362
553
281
592
766
119
197

1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895
1896
1896
1897
1897
1897

80
75
100
50
125
75
90
75
50
75
115
75
125
120
100
50
75
75
75
115
75
55
100
100
100
100
100
115
90
75
125
125
100
125

I

Pacific Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . 331
San Pedro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 332
Alta ........... . . . . . . . . . 333
Covina ..... .. ........... 334
West Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 335
Fruitvale ................ 336
Carquinez ..... .... ...... 337
San Jacinto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 338
Fullenon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 339
Oxnard .... .............. 341
San Fernando . . . . . . . . . . . . 343
Starr King. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 344
Brentwood ............ . . . 345
Palo Alto. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 346
McKinley ... .. .......... 347
San Bernardino . . . . . . . . . . . 348
Sequoia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 349
Palestine .. .............. 351
Sunset .... .... .......... 352
Pinole .................. 353
Hollywood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 355
Mill Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 356
Buena Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357
Golden State . . . . . . . . . . . . . 358
Fort Bragg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 361
Charity. ......... . . . . . . . . 362
Berlceley . ............... 363
Willits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365
Las Palmas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 366
South Pasadena . . . . . . . . . . . 367
Unity ................... 368
Ocean Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 369
Amity-Seal Rock. . . . . . . . . 370
Le Progres de L'Oceanie . . . 371
Gardena ............ .. ... 372
West Los Angeles...... .. . 373
United .................. 374

270
517
145
603
1013
592
143
121
416
414
662
752
167
624
356
989
674
501
379
199
934
364
571
498
135
283
587
146
984
571
382
393
416
659
559
392
819

1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906

105
165
53
115
165
100
75
65"
125
100
125
100
65
100
115
75
100
100
100
75
125
100
125
100
75
100
75
75
75
115
100
115
100
175
125
125
100

Lodge

5
-

10

-

-

15

-

2
-

2
-

5
-

-

I

25

-

12

-

-

5

25
5

-

10
10
5
IO
I

10

-

5

5
I

-

5

l

-

5
-

Candidates

G.L.
Dues

Jnit.

Passed

20
21
24
15
24
20
24
18
30
18
24
21
18
25
24
18
18
18
20
25
20
15
18
25
18
24
40
25
20
20
16
16
15
15

I

-

I

2
12
4
7

2
10
5
10
8
5
9
5
5
1
7
6
6
1
3
8

28
36
12
18
21
20
15
20
21
25
20
15
15
12
20
15
24
18
20
18
21
24
20
24
24
20
12
24
25
16
30
18
18
15
16
17
15

3
9
5
2
12
6
4

II

5
3
6
6
5
3
4
4
3
1

I

-

7
4
4
5
5
2

3
2
7
14
3
4
2
2
8
6
22
7
13
5
II

13
4
2

16
3
16
16
7
2
3

5
19
6
8
2
4
5
12
8
I

-

3
6
10
I

2
I
I

11
4
14
6
10
6
13
10
4
2

2
15
3
10
17
3

1
2
1
4
8
4
12
2
II

6
12
12
4
I

3
II

3
II

15
5

I

I

3
6
15

-

6
9
3
29
-

4
8
2
28
1

I

l

7

9
2
5
8
4
6
3
3
24
11
3
6

I

II

2
4
24
9
9
2
7
13
7
2

-

6
13
4
7
2
6
27
13
5
9

Rai sed

II

-

6

3
5
14
7

-

l

4
5
2
20
2
l
II

2
5
13
8
7
3
5
24
9
3
7

Per Capita

437 .50
483.85
3640.40
700.45
1422. 15
1563.45
1787.10
570.95
1613.90
745 .40
1032.40
942.65
1109.60
811.95
647 .50
291.65
542.35
572.30
970.55
1903.90
994.40
708.15
1446.00
1052.20
714.10
1782.45
1916.95
1219.15
1974.80
983.30
2034.15
2572.45
403.95
683.25

924.45
1877.10
599.75
2682.05
3391.05
2041.40
487.90
518.35
1626.90
1511.55
2183.40
2521.75
561.45
2042.45
1139.60
3323.50
2243.05
1673.80
1236.15
692.20
3390.40
1216.35
2198.05
1617.70
486.90
971.70
1927.90
505.10
3358.35
1923.65
1549.60
1419.55
1425.85
2590.95
1878.85
1304.10
2763.85

Affiliates

Contrb.

w

VI

00

35.00
35.00
140.00
95.00
385.00
35.00
50.00
165.00
140.00
165.00
105.00
70.00

-

105.00
35.00
260.00
435 .00

165.00
35.00
70.00
350.00
140.00
775.00
210.00
650.00
140.00
410.00
445.00
140.00
70.00

'"C

:itl

0

(j

trl
trl

-z
0

Cl

VJ

0

'Tl
.....j

::i::
trl

50.00
420.00
35.00
610.00
175.00
60.00
25.00
620.00
235.00
210.00
70.00
190.00
270.00
410.00
330.00
35.00
175.00

-

105.00
855.00
245 .00
35.00
210.00
425.00
130.00

200.00
655.00
480.00
175.00
340.00

Cl

:itl

~
0

t""'

0

8trl
0

'Tl

(j

>

t""'

a
:itl

->z
w

VI

'°

G.L.

Charter

Degree

Affil.

No.

Members

Issued

Fees

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Brotherhood ............. 375
Francis Drake. . . . . . . . . . . . 376
Artesia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 377
Mizpah ................. 378
Fillmore ................. 379
Huntington Beach . . . . . . . . . 380
Oceanside ............... 381
Highland Park. . . . . . . . . . . . 382
Orosi ................... 383
El Centro . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 384
Dinuba .................. 385
Coalinga ................ 387
Parnassus-Presidio ........ 388
Palos Verdes. . . . . . . . . . . . . 389
Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 390
East Belt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 391
West Lake........... . . . . 392
Balder .................. 393
University . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Turlock ................. 395
Apollo .................. 396
Rising Light . . . . . . . . . . . . . 397
Fraternity ................ 399
Burlingame . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 400
Bay View . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 401
Brawley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 402
Yerba Buena ............. 403
Glendora . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 404
Moneta ................. 405
Burbank ................. 406
La Mesa ................ 407
Sierra Madre . . . . . . . . . . . . . 408
Honolulu ................ 409
Perris. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 411

304
383
255
232
197
479
538
394
132
428
234
282
766
698
110
135
427
395
307
421
346
714
381
495
477
202
690
191
602
824
565
138
393
352

1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910

100
100
115
100
100
120
75
100
65
125
75
100
100
125
125
50
100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
75
75
100
110
105
125
125
90
175
50

25
5

18
24
18
15
20
20
15
15
20
18
12
15
18
18
18
15
15
18
18
21
18
20
20
21
18
18
18
40
12
25
22
22
15
18

1
5
14
2
3
20
12
2
3
4
4
10
9
8
7
4
5
10
4
17
5
4
2
4
9
3
12
7
2
9
10

-

Calexico ................ 412
Silver Trowel. . . . . . . . . . . . 415
Lindsay...... . . . . . . . . . . . 416
Clovis .................. 417
Elysian ............ . ..... 418
Upland .................. 419
Kerman .............. . .. 420
Inglewood ............... 421
Eagle Rock. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 422
Aorence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 423
Exeter .................. 424
Holtville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 425
Taft-Midway. . . . . . . . . . . . . 426
Chino Valley. . . . . . . . . . . . . 427
San Dimas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 428
Pittsburg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 429
McCloud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 430
Alpha .............. .. ... 431
Hammonton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 433
Fairmount . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 435
Claremont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 436
Lancaster. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 437
Tyrian....... . . . . . . . . . . . 439
Standard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 440
Coronado..... . . . . . . . . . . . 441
Blackmer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 442
Schofield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 443
Carpinteria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 444
Wilshire-Garfield . . . . . . . . . 445
La Puente . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 446
Torrance ................ 447
Mount Diablo . . . . . . . . . . . . 448
Van Nuys ............... 450
Montebello . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 451
San Pasqual. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 452
Crocker. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 454
Golden West ............. 455

108
397
182
608
271
269
145
642
388
518
213
159
668
218
214
289
91
393
124
251
204
562
250
281
296
883
386
154
516
259
659
460
1149
610
413
429
375

1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915

75
125
50
80
150
90
75
125
100"
100
50
75
50
90
65
75
50
75
50
100
75
115
75
75
100
100
140
65
100
100
110
75
125
100
115
100
75

18
18
24
20
26
20
12
15
24
15
18
12
20
20
18
26
18
33
16
20
18
18
18
30
20
15
20
24
18
20
15
30
15
20
22
12
24

7
7
3
22
5
6
2
8
1
1
3
7
6
5
4
4
1
2
3
7
5
8
7
2
7
16
15
1
3
4
18
17
19
15
3
7
2

Lodge

25
1
-

-

10

-

5
10
20
10
1
5
5
25

10
3
25

-

5
10
5
3

25
-

10
-

10

-

5

-

1
10

10
10

Raised

Per Capita

4
17
6
22
7
3
2
5
2
9
7
13
1
4
2
6
5
6
3
10
4
5
4
6
4
3
12
5
2
10
10

1
5
11
6
18
8
1
3
6
2
7
4
12
3
2
4
3
6
1
17
5
4
4
5
6
3
9
8
2
11
11

1048.70
1263.55
959.55
772.50
776.60
1697.85
1854.25
1292.40
436.80
1505.45
896.90
999.00
2607.70
2382.90
369.50
711.25
1404.30
1313.80
1018.00
1403.70
1128.95
2341.10
1483.60
1772.05
1590.85
690.00
2319.80
677.10
2033.90
2739.55
1859.15
609.95
1371.50
1231.80

5
4

3
2

615.10
1354.50
644.35
2150.90
921.05
953.80
588.75
2158.30
1240.30
1721.75
751.55
792.60
2249.80
865.60
733.90
1102.40
340.85
1313.50
441.65
920.15
719.05
1932.65
1038.05
966.60
1003.90
3160.05
1282.15
513.20
1792.00
1010.95
2305.90
1634.80
3953.75
2128.05
1340.95
1492.30
1332.25

17

17

8
3
5
4
3

7
3
8
4
1
10
1
2
7
4

-

-

-

2
3
5
5
8
6
2
6
20
19
1
4
2
13
14
18
12
3
6
4

3
2
4
4
9
8
3
6
18
22
2
5
4
14
8
19

8
2
5
6
3

II

5
9

-

Candidates
Affiliates
Contrb.

\JJ

O'I

0

25.00
175.00
420.00
70.00
775.00
445.00
70.00
105.00
155.00
35.00
315.00
330.00
580.00
140.00
200.00
315.00

-

'"t:I

:;o

0

n

trl
trl

0

z

0
en
0

'T1

--l

::i::
trl

105.00
575.00
35.00
165.00
85.00
140.00
330.00
95.00
420.00
295.00
280.00
400.00

235.00
70.00
690.00
140.00
225.00
555.00
95.00
60.00
70.00

-

140.00
70.00
140.00
-

-

70.00
70.00
175.00
250.00
270.00

35.00
370.00
665.00
610.00
60.00
585.00
560.00
695.00
455.00
105.00
175.00

0

:;o

:»-

z

0

l'

0
0
0

trl

0

'T1

n

:»-

l'

=Tl

0

:;o

z

s;::

\JJ

O'I

Candidates

Lodge

No.

Members

Charter

Degree

Affil.

Issued

Fees

Fees

Dues

-

18
20
20
18
18
18
25
18
36
22
20
24
21
20
21
20
18
30
15
21
15
26
21
20
18
16
24
20
18
38
18
18
18
16

Monterey Parle . . . . . . . . . . . 457
Henry S. Orme . . . . ... .. .. 458
Riverbank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 459
Mount Oso . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 460
Argonaut-Argone. . . . . . . . . 461
Paul Revere . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 462
Morgan Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . 463
Alta Vista-Mount Vernon .. 464
Center . ........... ...... 465
Libertas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 466
Culver City-Foshay . . . . . . . . 467
Rockridge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468
Yorba Linda . . . . . . . . . . . . . 469
Delta . .... ... .. ... . ..... 471
Maui . . . . . .... ... . . . .. .. 472
Blythe .. .... . . ... . ...... 473
America . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 475
Coachella . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 476
Temblor.. . .............. 477
Thousand Oaks ..... ...... 478
Golden Rule. . . . . . . . . . . . . 479
Fellowship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 480
Mt. Davidson .... ........ 481
Clarence F. Smith ......... 482
Bell.. . . .......... ...... 483
Chowchilla . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 485
Caledonia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 486
Vallejo ...... . .... .... . .. 487
Patterson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 488
East Bay . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 489
Corcoran . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 490
Woodstock. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 491
Garvanza . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 492
Atascadero . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 493

755
581
145
296
463
441
135
326
399
616
495
291
206
398
163
211
277
256
88
478
661
4ll
299
205
679
169
Sil
321
172
247
ll6
340
2ll
143

1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1919
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920

100
125
75
80
115
100
75
75
80
100
100
ll5
100
100
50
75
115
75
50
75
100
100
100
115
100
75
100
75
75
100
75
75
75
75

494
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
518
520
521
523
524
525
528
529
530
531
532
533
534
535
537
538
540
541
542

483
399
172
539
149
197
467
312
440
551
748
414
84
212
221
408
351
422
315
1297
440
586
107
301
414
803
444
137
230
363
150
206
404
243
177
378
859

1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923

80
100
80
100
100
80
75
105
12S
105
125
100·
50
150
75
150
125
100
115
215
100
125
135
100
125
150
80
75
75
125
100
100
75
100
100
75
125

Acom . ............ .. ....
Fremont . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Stockton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Capital City . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Roosevelt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Westwood .. .. ...........
Harbor .. ...... ..........
Point .. .. .. . . ... ........
Seaside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Silver Cord . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mount Olive . . . . . . . . . . . . .
El Segundo . . .. ... .. .. . . .
Joppa .. . . . .... ..........
Benjamin Franklin . . . . . . . .
Cupertino . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Sunnyvale . .... ... .......
Palms ..... . .............
Cahuenga . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
La Jolla . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Ionic ...... . ...... . .....
Orinda ..... . .......... ..
Bellflower . ....... .......
Catalina Island . . . . . . . . . . .
George Washington . . . . . . .
Beverly Hills . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Loyalty .. ...............
Sun Garden . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alexandria ........... ....
Smyrna ..... . . ... . .. . . ..
Azure .. .. .. .. ... .. ......
Forest Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Alexander Hamilton . . . . . . .
Utopia . ........ .........
Ascot ...... . ............
Queen Beach . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Shattuck-Stephens .........
North Hollywood . . . . . . . . .

1
10
10
l
10
-

-

5
5

5
-

l
10

10

-

10
-

1
1

10
10
15
30
-

-

1

-

-

-

-

-

5

25
10
-

10
10
25

5
5
-

10

5
-

-

5
5

24
18
25
15
15
18
20
21
20
20
20
21
20
18
30
36
21
20
15
25
24
21
20
20
15
25
36
20
20
21
24
20
20
18
20
16
25

6

5
5

-

5
-

2
3

1
ll
7
1
2
12
3
9
4
I
2
6
2
3

3
2
4
10

4
2
3
7

1

5

-

-

1
4
4
8
9
13
I

1
4
4
12
7
ll

-

3
6
19
3
9

-

3
6
12
14

2
7
17
ll

-

3
9

-

-

-

1
6

-

6
13
2
2
1
4
2
10

8
7
4
3
3
3
9
3

4
3
2
10
4
4
1
1
10
7
1
1
8
2
10
3
I

6
3
12
3
3
1
1
1
1
6

-

5

5

-

3
ll
6
3
7
18
3
7

l
4
4
4

4
9
4

-

-

-

5
5

1
2
14
7

2
3
7
6
21
16
4
I

6
2
3

8

5

2
6
3
9

6
2
2

-

3

6
4
4
9
8
6
I
3
I
2
12
4

-

Raised

Passed

Init.

-

5
1
3
4
21
4
13

-

2

5
15
6
1
3
7

1
2

3
2
20

-

1
1

5

23

G.L.

Affiliares

Per Capita

Contrb.

2460.15
1903.30
460.70
1089.55
1558.50
1555.30
150.25
1095.05
1436.25
2135.15
1665.15
958.05
725.10
1355.25
549.70
832.85
995.55
858.20
266.65
1575.15
2399.20
1476.05
1000.30
662.95
2295.45
640.80
1757.75
ll07.00
682.85
798 .30
427.60
1124.20
701.80
551.00

1600.25
1371.60
737.85
1913.25
499.15
680.40
1558.70
1141.80
1486.60
2132.75
2490.35
1426.90
275.70
693.45
804 .30
1423.55
1157.55
1427.55
1147.25
5127.55
1558.85
1961.95
358.45
1040.30
1428.00
2850.60
1461.45
456.60
775.80
1326.65
502.50
719.05
1341.30
811.70
604.95
1320.20
2960.50

w

N
°'

270.00
175 .00
200 .00

140.00
455 .00
140.00
245.00
210.00
225.00
35 .00
105.00
35 .00
70. 00
350.00
70 .00
225.00
35.00
70.00
445 .00
140.00

"ti
~

?5tTI
tTI

0

z0
Vl

0

'T1
--l

ffi

175 .00
35.00
385 .00
105 .00
35 .00
35.00
35.00
190.00

70.00
175 .00
295.00
35.00
155.00
175 .00
210.00
615.00
525.00
105.00
35 .00

35 .00
350.00
175.00
130.00
345.00

-

295.00

70.00
190.00
355.00
540 .00

0

~

>

~

t""

0

8tI1
~
>
t""

(')

;;
0

~

>

210.00
435 .00
35.00
35.00
140.00

315 .00

w
w
°'

Affil.

Members

Charter
Issued

Degree

No.

Fee.

Fees

Dues

lnit.

Passed

Signal .................. 543
Glendale . . ......... . .... 544
Veritas-Jonathan . . . . . . . . . . 545
San Gabriel .. .... ........ 546
Arcadia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 547
Triangle . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 548
Justice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 549
Lakeshore ... .. ... ....... 551
Semper Virens . . . . . . . . . . . 552
Educator ................ 554
White Pine . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 555
Fairfax . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 556
Hermosa ........ .. . .... . 557
Point Firmin ...... , . . . . . . 558
Plymouth . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
East San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . 561
Pyramid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 562
South Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 563
Foothill ...... . .. .... ... . 564
West Adams . . . . . . . . . . . . . 565
Searchlight . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 567
Park Boulevard . . . . . . . . . . . 568
Chateau Thierry . . . . . . . . . . 569
Military Service . . . . . . . . . . 570
James Madison . . . . . . . . . . . 572
S.W. Hackett .......... . . 574
Fort Crook ... .. .. . .. . .... 575
El Cajon Valley . . . . . . . . . . 576
Sunnyside . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 577
Progressive ........ ...... 578
Warren G . Harding ... . . . . . 579
Santa Maria ..... .. . . . .. .. 580
Security ........... ...... 581
Rialto ............. ...... 582

438
665
242
535
432
312
311
217
295
306
92
467
363
266
322
842
408
285
859
213
331
290
281
221
232
522
215
629
283
396
620
135
355
371

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1924
1924
1924
1924

100
100
100
125
100
115
100
100
50
80
55
100
100
125
90
75
100
100
100
100
110
100
100
100
100
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115

25
-

18
18
18
15
50
20
18
24
18
15
24
24
16
28
21
16
20
18
20
20
20
18
24
21
18
15
15
20
15
18
15
20
23
20

7
13
3
9
7
6

7
3
I
7
2
19
4
6
7
6
6
12

I
9
2
5
5
8
2
2
2
7
2
7
1
2
5
25
I
I
IO
6
3
3
9
2
19
3
5
6
6
4
8

9
2
4
4
21
8
2
5
7
I
I
9
2
20
3
3
6
5
3
9

Wasco ... ............... 583
Harding . ................ 584
Manchester . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 585
Garden Grove. . . . . . . . . . . . 586
Valley Forge ........ ..... 587
El Sereno . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 588
Kauai ................... 589
Compass ...... .......... 590
Escalon .............. ... 591
Tujunga . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 592
All States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 593
Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 594
Alexander Graham Bell . . . . 595
Guardian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 596
Pearl Harbor . . . . . . . . . . . . . 598
Carmelita . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 599
Lynwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 600
Grizzly . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 601
Melrose .. . ....... ...... . 602
Dimond ....... .......... 603
Jubilee ....... ... .... .... 604
Glassell Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . 605
Sojourner .... . ..... ...... 607
Granada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 608
Provident . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 609
Elmhurst. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 610
Canoga ................. 611
Temple City ............. 612
Three Pillars . . . . . . . . . . . . . 613
Larchmont ... .... ........ 614
Hemet .... ... .... ....... 615
R.E. Dolley . . ... ... ... ... 616
Big Bear ....... . ........ 617
Southland ... .. .. ........ 618
Neptune. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 619
Point Loma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 620
The Gardens . . . .. . . . . . . . . 621

246
255
209
534
327
308
96
314
153
312
495
792
233
825
577
296
503
104
217
188
399
313
258
608
444
224
433
421
383
266
421
207
172
279
270

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

115
115
125
120
100
75
75
113
50
125
100
100
140
100
150
115
125
50
90
100
75
105
115
100
100
100
135
100
100
100

3
3

I
2

2
3

Lodge

644

411

90
100
75
100
125
120
100

10
5

-

2

-

5
5
10
10

-

5
10
20
10
10

-

5

5
I
5

10
5
I

-

-

10
15

-

10
5

-

5

-

-

23
18
20
15
18
21
15
18
18
18
21
16
22
15
15
20
24
15
20
18
20
18
30
21
18
20
18
17
18
18
23
20
35
21
20
18
24

3
2
6
3
7
5

3
22
I
2
12
2
7

-

21
5
2
I
4
6
8
10
8
8
14
7
8

-

4
I
14
6
3
2
4
I
4
4
I
7
9
3
3
I
7
7
9

-

12
4
I

6
4
7
7
7
8
13
5
3

3
I
8
3
5
3
5
2
5
4
I

4
9
I
I
2
3
II
5

Raised

3
II
I

4
6
6
2
2
3
7

-

15
2
7
3
5
7
5
8
14
4
2
I
2
2
5
3
3
3
3
2
6
4
2
2
9
2

-

3
4
11
6

G.L.
Per Capita

1594.90
2255.55
806.65
2086.90
1441.75
1083.50
1025.75
768.95
981.90
1021.65
453.20
1612.40
1222.20
880.35
1102.25
2871.95
1387. 10
914.20
2947.50
739.15
1338.35
948.05
938.25
762.60
772.15
1855.30
789.55
2880. 15
958.05
1317. 15
2096.00
497.55
1263.70
1296.80

893.40
858.90
696.80
1931.85
1146.35
t !06.35
322.60
1093.85
512.55
1034.70
1664.85
2748.75
793 .85
2725.95
2023.85
1039.25
1737.90
346.05
685.70
630.45
1496.95
1058.70
855.20
2024.70
1514.30
755 .40
1448.80
1454.00
1277.00
884.00
1452.25
806.00
576.85
923.90
908.45
2251.25
1406.55

Candidates
Affiliates
Contrb.

w

O'\
~

140.00
445 .00
105 .00
35.00
305 .00
210.00
95 .00
!05.00
235.00
260.00
140.00
95 .00
920 .00
35.00
70.00
350 .00
35.00
-

....,

;:o

0

()

tr:1
tr:1

0

z

0
en
0

'TI

--l

::i::
tr:1

245 .00
70.00
35.00
285 .00

165.00
210.00
295 .00
175 .00
!05 .00
460.00

35.00
!05.00
805.00
140.00
50.00
60.00
!05.00
225 .00
330 .00
355 .00
280.00
390.00
420 .00
2!0.00
210.00

-

140.00
35.00
375 .00
175.00
105.00
70.00
130.00
35 .00
140.00
105.00
35.00
245.00
380.00
105.00
35.00
245 .00
275 .00
245.00

0
;:o
;i:..

z

0

r
0

0
0

tr:1

0

'TI

()

;i:..

r

25

~

>

w

O'\
VI

a...er
Lodge

Candidairs
Affiliates
Con1rb.

Degree
Fees

Affil.

Fees

Dues

Init .

Passed

Raised

75
175
125
125
115
140
100
100
105
100
90
75
125
100
175
75
100
125
125
100
75
75
125
125
125
100
125
90
115
90
125
115
75
125

25

20
21
15
20
26
26
21
18
20
18
20
18
20
18
25
24
18
20
24
24
15
25
32
20
20
18
18
20
24
18
20
30
15
18

4
40
I
23
2
7
I
4
15
15
8
8
15
5
10
5
I
8
8
6
12
4
2
12
7
2
7
3
3
4
13
5
3
6

3
28
10
4
6
2
2
9
13
3
9
7
6
9
5
3
8
9
3
12
I
6
8
5
2
7
2
6
2
8
3
3
6

2
30
2
12
3
6
I
I
11
13
5
12
8
I
6
4
4
10
9
4
16
I
7
10
7
I
5
3
5
7
9
6
3
5

1006.95
4561.10
1870.20
2588 .80
866.60
894 .55
792.75
677 .00
2784.65
2504.40
1214.95
2035.65
1049.60
1181.15
2691 .40
1023.90
922.55
1243.85
834.55
1761.35
2260.70
754.20
1040.10
2109.45
1159.50
1132. 10
2527 .80
898 .75
1938 .40
654.40
122.00
1214.80
891.20
1025.35

70.00
1520.00

655
195
314
584
333
335
739
249
572
187
331
351
232
309

1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928

189
137
905
419
259
294
756
210
270
262
523
498
382
376
396
109
214
142
491
135
147
416
193
417
278
87
415
426
189
344
275
248
311
285
200
408
348

1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946
1946
1946
1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949

105
50
120
100
75
100
100
100
100
75
175
115
115
125
115
65
75
100
100
100
75
100
75
75
JOO
50
100
115
JOO
100
100
115
115
100
125
100
80

25
25
21
20
24
18
25
25
18
21
18
21
18
25
18
20
28
18
24
18
18
30
22
20
25
18
24
21
20
20
28
25
24
18
20

5
2
28
2
5
7
4
9
6
4
14
8
2
8
2
3
4
18
2

4
2
18
2
6
5
5
7
4
5
7
9
9
3
2
3
2

5
2
21
3
9
5
2
4
6
4
7
5
II
4
2
3
2

647.15
464.95
3330. 15
1418.90
867.55
1023.50
2581. 75
753.40
1055.45
887.35
2311.55
1685. 10
1291 .65
1204 .60
1312.50
370.80
714.85
500.70
1759. 15
459.90
493.45
1416.45
631.75
1472.90
920.50
291 .45
1470.90
1572.05
652.45
1180.70
1019.20
908 . 10
1078.80
957.40
658.25
1393.80
1433 .40

200.00
70.00
920.00
70.00
225 .00
210.00
140.00
390.00
215.00
140.00
245.00
70.00
350.00
70.00
105.00
140.00

No.

Memben

Atwater. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 622
Menorah .. ..... ......... 623
Angeles Mesa . . . . . . . . . . . . 625
Chula Vista. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 626
Lamanda Park . . . . . . . . . . . . 627
Truth . . . ............ . ... 628
Fairview .. . , . . . . . . . . . . . . 629
Benevolence. . . . . . . . . . . . . 631
Normal Heights . . . . . . . . . . . 632
Poinsettia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 633
Victorville . ...... ........ 634
Riverside. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 635
John Marshall. . . . . . . . . . . . 636
Palisades . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 637
Composite . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 639
La Cumbre . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 642
Alta Loma . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 643
Lomita .... ........ .. . ... 644
A.F.E. Irwin . . . . . . . . . . . . . 645
Hawthorne .. . .... . . . . . .. . 647
Damascus . .... . . .. . .. . . . 648
La Brea ... ...... . . ...... 650
Menlo Park . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 651
Crescenta Valley .. ........ 652
Fontana. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 653
Jordan . ................. 654
Monte Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . 655
Citro! . . . ..... . . .. . .. . . .. 656
John D. Spreckels. . . . . . . . . 657
Livingston.. . . . .......... 658
La Habra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 659
Baldwin Park . . . . . . . . . . . . 660
Malta .. . . ... .. . .... . . .. . 661
Henry Knox . . . . . . . . . . . . . 662

284
1307
542
734
259
243
226
203
784
704
337
611
277
349
693
301
276
376
214

Ojai ........ ..... ....... 663
Kaweah ..... .. . .. ....... 665
Reseda .. ...... ... .... . .. 666
Meridian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 667
San Gorgonio . . . . . . . . . . . . 668
John P. Jarman. ....... . .. 669
Greenleaf. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 670
San Clemente . . . . . . . . . . . . 671
Laguna Beach .. .. . .. . . ... 672
Far West. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 673
Los Cerritos . . . . . . . . . . . . . 674
Modesto. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 675
Willow Glen . . . . . . . . . . . . . 676
Liberal Arts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 677
Altadena. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 678
Canby Cross . . . . . . . . . . . . . 679
Carmel ... . .. ............ 680
Dos Palos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 681
Barstow . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 682
Redwood Empire . . . . . . . . . 683
Trona . .... ...... .... . ... 684
San Marino. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685
Albany ..... ........ ..... 686
Vista .. .. .. .. ... . . . ... .. 687
Oildale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 688
Pohona . . .... . .... . . . ... . 689
San Carlos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 690
Indian Wells Valley . . . . . . . 691
Travelers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 692
Palm Springs ..... . . . .. .. . 693
San Antonio . . . . . . . . . . . . . 694
Meudell .. ... ..... .. ..... 695
Crossroads . ... . .. .... .. . . 696
Saint Elmo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 697
William D. Stephens .. .... 698
Bixby Knolls . . . . . . . . . . . . . 699
Ponderosa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 700

506

Issued

5
I
20
10
3
-

-

5
10
IO

-

-

5
5

-

-

-

-

3

-

-

-

I
10
25

I
10
-

-

10
10

I
-

-

I

-

5
10
-

-

-

10
5
10

10
-

20
25

5
4
11
8

7
10
9
5
5
7
2
3
11
19

21
4
5
4
8
5
2
7
I
12
4
5
5
I
2
9
10

-

22
5
I

-

8
4
7
3

5
8

14
4
4
10
3

-

7
7

G.L.
Per Capila

VJ

°'°'

800.00
70.00
175.00
140.00
510.00
340.00
210.00
380.00
505.00
175.00
200.00
35.00
380.00
235 .00
140.00
350.00
60.00
95.00
315.00
210.00
35 .00
175.00
85 .00
120.00
140.00
435.00
140.00

"C

;l:l

0
(")
rn
rn

Q

z

0

en
0

'Tl

-!

:t
rn

210.00

-

595 .00
70.00
25.00
165.00
140.00
450.00
305.00
175.00
320.00
440.00
105.00
105.00
320.00
105.00
105.00
385.00
420.00

0

;l:l

;J>-

z
0

r

0
0
0
rn
0

'Tl

(")

;J>-

r

=ii

0

;l:l

z

>

VJ

°'
-.J

Lodge

No.

Members

Santa Ynez Valley... . .. .. 701
Rosemead ........ ....... 702
Westchester. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 703
El Cerrito . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 705
Hunters Point Naval. . . . . . . 706
Lake Tahoe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 707
Seafaring . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 708
Lorenzo. .. .. .... .... . . .. 709
Anacapa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 710
Rim of the World... . ..... 711
Los Altos ......... ... .. .. 712
Castro Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . 713
Blue Lakes .. . . . . .. ... ... 714
Magnolia Park.. . .. . .. .. . . 715
Belmont Shore... . ... .... 716
Wayfarer ........ .. ..... . 717
San Lorenzo Valley .. .. . .. 718
Estero .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 719
Mineral King ... .. .. .... .. 720
Home ......... ......... . 721
George E. Tutt. . . . . . . . . . . 722
Acalane s...... .. .. . ... . . 723
San Ramon Valley ....... . 724
Saint John's.. ..... ....... 725
Yucaipa . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 726
Verdugo Hills. ... . .. .... . 727
Lakewood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 728
Centennial . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 729
Polaris ......... ... . ..... 730
Two Rivers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 731
San Juan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 732
Golden Empire . . . . . . . . . . . 733
Kit Carson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 734
Oasis of Mara . . . . . .. . . . . . 735

156
251
391
209
179
109
573
383
281
214
259
332
249
319
387
176
134
189
151
764
222
236
197
279
251
121
287
149
228
184
290
188
224
139

Lemon Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . 736
Hillsborough ......... .... 737
Arvin ......... . ........ . 738
La Canada ... . ......... .. 739
Opportunity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 740
Tyre. .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 741
Manhattan ......... ...... 742
Oakwood . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 743
San Leandro ..... . ... . ... 744
Peninsula . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 745
Soquel ......... ......... 746
Claude H. Morrison ...... . 747
Highland . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 748
Merced .. ..... ........ .. 749
Mother Colony . . . . . . . . . . . 750
Hamilton ......... ....... 751
Luther Burbank . . . . . . . . . . . 752
Lawndale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 753
San Pablo. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 754
Golden Bowl . . . . . . . . . . . . . 755
Clayton Valley . . . . . . . . . . . 756
Channel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 757
West Covina. . . . . . . . . . . . . 758
El Rancho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 759
Lakeside .. . ..... .... . .. . 760
Josiah W. Roller ......... . 761
Coastside. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 762
Arabic ........ ........ .. 763
Heritage ......... ........ 764
Dana R. Weller... .. ... ... 765
James H. Kew. . . . . . . . . . . 766
William Rhodes Hervey . . . . 767
Zenith ........ ........ .. 768
Palmdale ........ ........ 769
Lake Chabot. . . . . . . . .. . . . 770
Mission Bay. ......... ... 771
Avenal .... .... . . ....... . 772

489
187
106
190
212
300
188
110
239
197
182
191
192
195
204
192
268
233
161
175
361
142
253
223
179
205
185
191
189
162
156
143
332
277
191
271
74

Charter
Issued

1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954

1954
1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957

Affil.

Degree
Fees

Fees

75
100
125
75
100
75
100
100
100
75
100
100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
165
115
75
75
75
75
100
140
125
100
100
100
90
100
90

115
100
100
125
115
125
115
100100
100
100
115
75
90
105
100
75
100
75
100
75
80
115
100
100
100
100
140
125
105
115
125
125
115
100
115
100

-

l

-

-

l
10
I
-

-

5
5

5
I
10
10
10
IO
10

-

-

10
10
-

-

-

l

5
5

-

-

10
5
10

-

5
5
10
10

10
-

Dues

Init.

Passed

24
18
30
15
21
18
16
18
18
25
20
18
24
21
22
20
16
24
20
25
21
25
24
24
15
20
25
21
20
24
18
18
20
20

3
6
3
2

-

25
24
20
24
21
25
20
20
20
24
24
18
16
15
18
30
20
20
20
15
30
18
24
21
25
18
15
15
24
20
15
15
20
20
18
18
20

2
II
8
10
I
5
6
9
9
10
l
4
3
5
29
8
3
9
5
8
3
11
I
6
I
8
9
5
4

3
5
2
l
2
8
12
9
3
3
6
5
I
II
I
4
5
8
16
7
3
6
10
6
3
13
I
2
2
7
8
3
3

9
6

8
5

8
4

-

4
8
11
4
4
11
8
2
6
3
3
6
5
21
6
3
6
12
8
7
5
16
8
8
3
6
3

3
6
7
2
2
i2
3
2
5
6
3
5
4
12
4
4
8
17
7
3
2
12
3
7
3
6
3
2

1
9
10
6
5
2

I
11

-

-

3
6
I
I
4
8
10
5
3
6
7
3
10
l
5
3
9
15
7
2
6
9
5
3
15
l
4
l
8
9
3
4

-

-

Raised

6
8
2
2

5
4
6
l
2
8
3
l
5
5
5
3
5
11
6
4
6
13
7
3
l
11
2
6
2
7
2
4
2
10
5
8
3
2

G.L.
Per Capita

525.60
919.50
1303 .75
670.15
591.60
373.15
2028.15
1292.95
993 .65
738.85
1068.95
1110. 10
886.80
1113.30
1352.45
617.55
461.90
644.15
549.45
2819.40
819.00
756.90
1020.95
951.95
896.40
449.35
1063.75
527.15
775.80
607 .00
1066.15
995.80
761.40
508.30

1748. 15
739.75
355 . 10
715.15
763.20
1095.65
661.75
376.50
859.95
778.95
646.35
687 .50
682.15
695.90
722.35
763.85
1046.80
824.85
540.30
816.25
1297.95
602.70
882.15
930.05
716.95
769.75
655 .65
682.85
638.75
547.35
521.90
518.05
1148.85
1015.60
676.80
981.15
253 .90

Candidaies
Affiliates
Contrb.

~

00
°'

155.00
140.00
180.00
105.00
70.00
390.00
305.00
315.00
35.00
25 .00
210.00
330.00
280.00
450.00

.,,

:;ti

~
a

[Il
[Il

-z

-

a
Vl

165.00
105.00
140.00
1265.00
245 .00
140.00

0

"fl

:I!
[Il

225.00
320 .00
70.00
315 .00
35.00
235.00
35.00
305.00
175.00
105.00

305.00
130.00
70.00
245 .00
340.00
105.00
140.00
400.00
225.00
95.00
250.00
70.00
155.00
175.00
190.00
715.00
175.00
105.00

-

385.00
175.00
235.00

-

525 .00
210.00
245 .00
70.00
235.00
105.00
330.00
305.00
175.00
155.00
70.00

a

:;ti

~

a

t""'

0

a

rd
0

"fl
(")

>
t""'

a:;ti

z

>

~

°'

'Cl

Lodge

No.

Members

Candidates
Affiliates
Conlrb.

Degree

Affil.

Issued

Fees

Fees

Dues

Jnit.

Passed

10

27
25
20
25
20
24
20
20
15
24
20
18
21
20
24
18
18
20
20
24
18
15
20
20
20
24
18
18
20
20
24
16
20
24

12
8
4
2
2
5
4

15
6
2
2
l
5
5
5
4
3
5
6
4
7
3
8
4
8
2
7
4
11
7
15
5
8
3
3
3
5
2
4
13

14
7
2·
4
l
6
5
7
2
2
4
4
4
6
3
13
7
7
1
6
2
8
6
17
5
7
2
3
3
6
3
4
13

968.95
839.90
773.30
927 .40
251.55
793.20
479.30
498.30
508 .10
547.35
289.40
722.70
636.40
539.10
549.30
442.50
1584.20
902. 10
562.55
267 .30
714.25
459.25
724.85
951.75
812.65
610.65
598.20
582. 15
538.75
708.90
440 .15
357 .75
528 .90
688.55

7
3
7
3
10
1
14

4
3
7
3
5

654.50
572.80
561.65
420.20
675.90
399.65
732.75
401.50
473.80
254.60
987 . .40
535.65
625 .75
275.00
333.60
520. 15
983 .00
509.40
641.25
524.85
407.70

Tejon . .. . . .. .. ...... . ... 773
Waikiki . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 774
San Dieguito . . . . . . . . . . . . . 775
East Whittier. . . . . . . . . . . . . 776
Pinnacle .. .... .. ...... .. . 777
La Mirada . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 778
Five Points . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 779
Riviera. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 780
Rolling Hills . . . . . . . . . . . . . 781
Silverado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 782
Mojave .............. . .. 783
Leland Stanford . . . . . . . . . . 784
Paramount .... .... . ...... 785
Rio Linda . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 786
Westminster . . . . . . . . . . . . . 787
Sierra.... ... .... .... . . . . 788
Oak Plains . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 789
Granada Hills . . . . . . . . . . . . 790
General Henry H. Arnold. . 791
Millbrae ... .. ............ 792
Maya ..... . .. ........... 793
Mt . Wilson . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 794
American River. . . . . . . . . . . 795
Golden Valley .. .. ....... . 796
Tila Pass . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 797
Ashland ................. 798
Clairemont Mesa . . . . . . . . . . 799
Rio Hondo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 800
Koolau ... . .... . ... . . .... 801
Yucca Valley. . . . . . . . . . . . 802
The Gabilan . . . . . . . . . . . . . 803
Moreno Valley . . . . . . . . . . . 804
Camellia ................ 805
Simi Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 806

278
234
220
266
53
233
120
140
148
161
84
203
145
147
158
132
392
247
153
78
157
139
172
205
163
139
152
129
126
195
109
105
154
174

1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1959
1959
1959
1959
1959
1960
1960
1960
1960
1960
1961
1961
1961
1961
1961

100
175
90
100
90
100
125
125
125
125
75
100
125
100
100
75
100
125
90
100
125
115
100
75
115
100
100
125
175
90
105
65
100
120

Conejo Valley . . . . . . . . . . . . 807
Scepter . . .. . ............. 808
Los Alamitos . . . . . . . . . . . . . 809
Victoria Palms... .... .... 810
Woodland Hills. . . . . . . . . . . 811
Triad ............ .. . .... 812
Old West. ... ..... . ...... 813
Plaza de Los Angeles ...... 814
Mount Baldy ............. 815
William B. Ogden . ..... .. 816
Great Lights . . . . . . . . . . . . . 818
Frank S. Land ........... . 819
Mar Vista . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 820
Gateway.. .. .... . . . . . . . . 821
Boron .... .. ..... .. ...... 822
Maccabee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 823
Camarillo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 824
Gemini .......... ..... ... 825
Palm Desen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 826
Kem River Valley. . . . . . . . 827
Tustin .... .. .... . . . ..... 828
Grand Totals .. .... .. . . ...

170
168
159
133
194
119
185
90
128
76
266
159
185
60
97
149
160
125
95
131
82

1961
1962
1962
1962
1962
1963
1963
1963
1964
1964
1964
1965
1965
1966
1966
1966
1967
1967
1968
1970
1971

120
100
100
75
135
100
125
12.S.
90
75
150
75
100
90
90
140
150
150
100
100
95

---

G.L.
Per capita

Charter

220,337

5
10
10
-

-

10
I

5
10
-

5
7
10
10
25
2

-

-

-

10
10

-

10
10
-

10
-

-

-

5

20
20
22
18
21
25
15
20
18
20
20
12
20
15
30
18
25
24
25
20
20

I

7
2
3
2
4
7
7
l
15
7
10
3
7
I

13
7
13
5
4
5
9
3
4
1
5
13

4
4
15
7
II

-

17
2
4
3
10
1
8
2
4
4
10
II
6
8
7

--

-

3
2
11
1
13
1
5
9
5
9
4
5
2

--

Raised

12
3
3

5
12
1
10
1
3
8
7
14
3
3
4

--

445 .00
320.00
155.00
110.00
200.00
70.00
245.00
95.00
105.00
35.00

-

235 .00
245.00
85.00
400.00
190.00
375.00
105.00
195.00
35 .00
385.00

'"tl

;>ti

~

tr!
tr!

zCl0

Cll

~
--!

s

315.00
70.00
95.00
60.00
260.00
130.00
155.00
60.00
175.00
385.00

155.00
140.00
550.00
305.00
410.00
550.00
130.00
140.00
380.00
35.00
355.00

-

140.00
140.00

400.00
-

235.00
200.00

Cl

~

z

0

5

8tr!
0

'Tl
(")

>
$774,298.95 120,415.00 r

3939
3452
3431
As of June 30, 1974, exclusive of research lodges, there were 681 chartered lodges in this jurisdiction with a total membership of 220,337.

Nonhem California Research 88
1952
Southern California Research 170
1952
El Camino Research ....... 56
1958
Central California Research . 83
1959
For membership and degree totals, see report of Grand Secretary.

w

-...I

0

'Tl

0

~

>

w

-...I

......

372

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES, INCLUDING CONSOLIDATIONS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
47

Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.

48

Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.

49

Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.

50

Forbestown, Forbestown, 1854. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Forbestown No. 50,
July 19, 1926.

2

Western Star, Shasta, 1850. Consolidated with Clinton No. 119, as Western Star No. 2, Oct.
15, 1936.

4

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings No. 4.
Jennings, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.

6

Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered, May 6, 1853.

52

Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered November 1864.

7

Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco No. 7, Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco. Charter revoked, May 13, 1859.

53

Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.

8

Tuolumne, Sonora, 1850. Consolidated with Mount Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8,
December 1876.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with Columbia No. 28, as Sonora No. 8, Dec. 12, 1891.
Tuolumne, Sonora. Consolidated with George Washington No. 62, as Tuolumne No. 8,
Sept. 15, 1919.

9

Marysville, Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69, as Corinthian No. 9,
Dec. 1874.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Yuba No. 39, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16,
1916.

11

Williamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation 1851, Charter never issued.

13

Nevada, Nevada City, 1851. Consolidated with Quitman No. 88, and Manzanita No. 102, as
Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13, 1910.

15

La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Oregon, November 1851.

16

Eureka, Auburn, 1851. Consolidated with Rising Star No. 83, as Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
Pacific, Valparaiso, Chile, Dispensation 1853, Charter never issued.

25
26

Georgetown, Georgetown, 1853. Consolidated with Pilot Hill No. 160, as Georgetown No.
25, December 1898.
El Dorado, Placerville, 1853. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 151, as Palmyra No. 26, Oct.
16, 1902.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Mt. Zion No. 114, as Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
Palmyra, Placerville. Consolidated with Acacia No. 92, as Palmyra No. 26, Mar. 29, 1916.
Palmyra, Placerville. Name changed to El Dorado No. 26, Oct. IO. 1929.

28

Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolumne No. 8, Dec.
12, 1891.

373

54

Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.

59

Gravel Range, Comptonville, 1855. Consolidated with Forest No. 66, as Gravel Range No.
59, Sept. 27, 1955.

62

George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as
Tuolumne No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.

63

Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.

64

Natoma, Folsom, 1855. Consolidated with Latrobe No. 189, as Natoma No. 64, December
1884.

66

Forest, Allegheny, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, as Gravel Range No. 59,
Sept. 27' 1955.

67

Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.

69

Independent Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69, May 2,
1855.
Corinthian, Marysville. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, December
1874.

71

Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with lone No. 80, as lone No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.

72

E. K. Kane, Nevada City, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. I, 1858.

73

Tyro, Drytt>wn, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.

74

Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.

75

Mountain Forest, Mountain Forest, 1855. Charter surrendered May 1870.

77

Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180 as Petaluma No. 180,
December 1898.

78

Calaveras, San Andreas, 1855. Consolidated with Modelumne No. 31, as Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Campo Seco No. 100, as Calaveras No. 78, October 1898.
Calaveras, San Andreas. Consolidated with Mokelumne Hill No. 298, as Calaveras No. 78,
Dec. 25, 1919.

80

Ione, Io'!e, 1856. Consolidated with Nebraska No. 71, as lone No. 80, Oct. 15, 1887.

29

Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.

30

Golden Gate, San Francisco, 1853. Consolidated with Speranza Italiana No. 219, as Golden
Gate Speranza No. 30, July I, 1966.

31

Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras No.
78, Oct. 13, 1883.

82

Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.

34

Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.

83

36

Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.

Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, as Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.

37

St. John's, Yreka, 1854. Consolidated with Siskiyou No. 105, as St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11,
1876.
St. John's, Yrek. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8, 1924.

85

Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's No. 115, as St.
Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
St. Mark's, Fiddletown. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.

39

Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, a~ Corinthian No. 9, June 16,
1916.

86

Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as Gibsonville
No. 158, November 1882.

374

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

375

131

Carpenter, Wood's Ferry, Dispensation 1858, was chartered in 1859 as Woodbridge No.
131, the name of the location of the Lodge having been changed to Woodbridge.

132

Sincerity, Greenville, 1859. Consolidated with Greenville No. 249, as Sincerity No. 132,
Oct. 16, 1896.

North Star, Fort Jones, 1856. Consolidated with Owen No. 108, as North Star No. 91, Oct.
15, 1908.

133

Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859 . Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, as Yosemite No. 99,
Oct. 16, 1913.

92

Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26, Mar. 29,
1916.

136

Pacific, San Francisco, 1860 Consolidated with Lebanon No. 495, As Lebanon-Pacific No.
136, September 7, 1971.

93

Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Moved to St. Helena and name changed to St. Helena No. 93,
Oct. 10, 1867.

137

Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860 Charter surrendered June 1862.

138

Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.

94

Mount Hennon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.

139

96

Howard, Yreka, 1856. Consolidated with St. John' s No . 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.

Crockett, San Francisco, 1860. Consolidated with Park No. 449, as Park-Crockett No. 139,
Nov. 2, 1972.

142

97

Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No. 158, as Jefferson No . 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
Jefferson, La Porte, Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, as Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Moved to Hornitos and name changed to Hornitos No. 98,
May 1860.

Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No. 240, April I,
1882.
Doric, North Fork, Dispensation 1861, Charter never issued.

88

Unity, Orleans Aat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman No . 88, May 8, 1856.
Quitman, North Bloomfield. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No. 13, Oct. 13,
1910.

90

Polar Star, Poonnan's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.

91

98
99
100
102
105

La Grange, Merced, 1856. Consolidated with Yosemite No. 133, as Yosemite No . 99, Oct.
16, 1913 .
Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras No. 78,
October 1898.
Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, as Nevada No . 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as St. John's No . 37, Oct. 11,
1876.
Franklin, Meadow Valley, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.
Folsom, Folsom, Dispensation 1857, Charter never issued.

107

Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8, as Tuolwnne No. 8,
December 1876.

108

Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated ith North Star No. 91, as North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.

109

Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.

114

Mt. Zion, Grizzly Aat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra No . 26, Oct.
II, 1911.
Saint Mark's, Fiddletown, 1857. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as St. Mark's
No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.

115

148

San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2, 1865.

151

Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26, as Palmyra No. 26, Oct.
16, 1902.

152

Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.

153

Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 13, 1864.

154

Carson, Carson City, Nevada Territory, 1862. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan.
16, 1865.

155

Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863 . Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.

156

Woodland, Woodland, 1863. Consolidated with Tyrian No. 284, as Woodland No. 156,
Oct. 11, 1911.

157

Washoe, Was.hoe City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan.
16, 1865.

158

Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, as Jefferson No. 97,
Oct. 15, 1908.

159

Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.

160

Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, as Georgetown No. 25,
December 1898.

162

Virginia City, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.

163

Silver City, Silver City, Nevada Territory, 1863. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan.
16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville, Dispensation 1864, Charter never issued.

165

Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan.
16, 1865.

116

Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.

118

Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.

119

Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star No. 2, as Western Star No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.

166

Excelsior, San Francisco, 1864. Consolidated with San Francisco-Victory No. 360, as San
Francisco No. 166, Dec, 6. 1972.

121

Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.

170

125

Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
Napa City, Napa, Dispensation 1859, Charter never issued.

Esmeralda, Aurora, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.

171

130

Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.

Escurial, Virginia City, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada. Jan .
16, 1865.

376

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

377

172

Lander, Austin, Nevada Territory, 1864. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16,
1865.

254

Reading, Reading, 1879. Consolidated with Kennett No. 456, as Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.

255

Welcome, Lemoore, 1879. Consolidated with Riverdale No. 496, as Welcome No. 255,
May 18, 1943.
Ariwna, Phoenix, Arizona Territory, 1879, Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona, March
25, 1882 .
Solomon, Tombstone, Arizona Territory, Dispensation 1881, Transferred to Jurisdiction of
Arizona, March 25, 1882.
King Solomon's, San Francisco, 1880. Consolidated with Seaport No. 550, as King
Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec . 5, 1%3.
Tucson, Tucson, Arizona Territory, 1881. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25,
1882.

175

Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch No. 175, Oct, 12, 1865.

176

Merced, Snelling, 1865 . Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.

177

Aztlan, Prescott, Arizona Territory, 1866. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Arizona, Mar. 25,
1882.

180

Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180,
December 1898.

182

Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle No. 182, Oct. 16, 1919.

184

Sierra Valley, Sierraville, 1867 . Consolidated with Loyalton No. 359, as Sierra Valley No.
184, Nov. 6, 1972.

263

185

Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne, Oct. 10, 1867.
Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, as Natoma No. 64, Oct. 17,
1884.

264

Hesperian, Santa Maria, 1882. Consolidated with Santa Maria No. 340, as Hesperian No.
264, Oct. 13, 1910.

266

North East, Fort Bidwell, 1882. Consolidated with Surprise Valley No. 235, as Surprise
Valley No. 235 , July 1, 1%2.

270
276

Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.

189
197

Paradise, Hayward, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin, Dispensation 1870, Charter never issued.

205

Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No . 364, as Olivet No. 205, Oct. I,
1917.

213

Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.

216

Doric, San Francisco, 1871. Consolidated with Starr King No. 344 as Starr King. No. 344,
April I, 1974.

218

Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic No. 218, Oct. 18, 1881.

219

257

260

277

Selma, Selma, 1885. Consolidated with Fowler No. 398, as Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.

284

Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No. 156, as Woodland No. 156, Oct.
11, 1911.

285

San Miguel, San Miguel, 1887. Consolidated with Paso Robles No . 286, as Paso Robles No .
286, Dec . l, 1968.

Speranza ltaliana, San Francisco, 1872. Consolidated with Golden Gate No. 30, as Golden
Gate Speranza No. 30, July l, 1966.

286

Paso Robles, Paso Robles, 1887 . Consolidated with San Miguel No. 285, as Paso Robles
No. 286, Dec. l, 1968.

221

Inyo, Independence, 1872. Consolidated with Waucoba No. 413, as Inyo No. 221, Jan. 10,
1945.

287

Winnedumah, Bishop, 1887. Consolidated with Bodie No. 252, as Winneduman No. 287,
Dec . 20, 1918 .

222

Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432, as Roseville No. 222, May
29, 1919.

290

Sunset, Los Angeles, 1888. Name changed to East Gate No. 290, Oct. 12, 1899.

298

223

Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.

Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill , 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78, as Calaveras
No . 78, Dec. 25, 1919.

226

Hayward , Half Moon Bay, 1873. Moved to San Mateo and name changed to San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.

311

Hueneme, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, as Oxnard No. 341, Oct.
16, 1902.

227

Contra Costa, Somersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
North Butte, Gridley, 1873. Consolidated with Emmanuel No. 318, as North Butte No. 230,
Oct. 8, 1%8.

315

Norwalk, Norwalk, 1893. Consolidated with Euclid No. 519, as Norwalk, Euclid No. 315,
April 3, 1973.

230

.

318

235

Surprise Valley, Cedarville, 1874. Consolidated with North East No . 266, as Surprise Valley No. 235, July 1, 1962.

Emmanuel, Biggs, 1893 . Consolidated with North Butte No. 230, as North Butte No . 230,
Oct. 8, 1968.

339

238

Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.

340

239

Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
F.quality, Colusa, 1875. Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No. 240, April 1,
1882.

Esperanza, Fullerton, 1900. Name changed to Fullerton No. 339, Oct. 13, 1904.
Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No . 264, as Hesperian No .
264, Oct. 13, 1910.

341

Oxnard, Oxnard, 1901. Consolidated with Hueneme No. 311, as Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
1902.

240
249

Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132, as Sincerity No. 132,
Oct. 16, 1896.

342

Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec . 19,
1912.

251

Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19, 1888.
Bodie, Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, as Winnedmah No. 287,
Dec . 20, 1918.

344

Starr King, San Francisco, 1902. Consolidated with Doric, No. 216 as Starr King No. 344,
April 1, 1974.

350

Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903 . Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.

252

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

379

351

Palestine, Los Angeles, 1903 . Consolidated with Craftsmen No. 559 as Palestine-Craftsmen
No. 351, July 1, 1972.

432

Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222, as Roseville No. 222, May
29, 1919.

352

Sunset, Los Angeles, 1903 . Consolidated with Albert Pike No. 484 as Sunset 352,
December 4, 1973.

434

Maricopa, Maricopa, 1913. Consolidated with Midway No. 426, as Taft-Midway No. 426,
July 1, 1973.

354

Presidio, San Francisco, 1903 . Consolidated with Parnassus No. 388 , as Parnassus-Presidio
No . 388, Dec . l, 1969.

438

358

Golden State, Los Angeles, 1903. Consolidated with Arlington No. 414, as Golden State
No . 358, Aug. l, 1970.

Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia No. 438, Oct. 16, 1918.
Acacia, Los Angeles, Consolidated with Arlington No. 414, as Arlington No . 414, Sept. 28,
1959.

445

359

Loyalton, Loyalton, 1904. Consolidated with Sierra Valley No. 184, as Sierra Valley No .
184, Nov. 6, 1972.

Wilshire, Los Angeles, 1914. Consolidated with James A. Garfield No. 566, as WilshireGarfield No . 445, Oct. I, 1973.

449

360

San Francisco-Victory, San Francisco, 1904. Consolidated with Excelsior No . 166, as San
Francisco No. 166, Dec. 6, 1972.

Park, San Francisco, 1914. Consolidated with Crockett No. 139, as Park-Crockett No. 139,
Nov. 2, 1972.

453

363

Berkeley, Berkeley, 1904. Consolidated with Charter Rock No . 410, as Berkeley No. 363,
July I, 1968.

Bethlehem, San Francisco, 1915. Consolidated with Crocker No . 454, as Crocker No . 454,
April I, 1961.

454

364

Olivet, Coming, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No. 205, Oct. l,
1917.

Crocker, Daly City, 1915. Consolidated with Bethlehem No. 453, as Crocker No. 454, April
I, 1961.

456

367

South Pasadena, South Pasadena, 1905. Consolidated with Metropolitan No . 646 as South
Pasadena No. 367, December 10, 1973 .

Kennett, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254, as Reading No. 254, Dec. 19,
1925.

457

370

Amity, San Francisco, 1905. Consolidated with Seal Rock No . 536, as Amity-Seal Rock
No. 370, March I, 1963.

Ramona, Monterey Park, 1915. Consolidated with Belvedere-Sunrise No. 522 as Monterey
Park 457, April 2, 1974.

458

371

Oceanic, Honolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.

Henry S. Orme, Los Angeles, 1915. Consolidated with Covenant No. 527, as Henry S .
Orme No. 458, Dec. I, 1971.

461

373

Veteran, Sawtelle, 1906. Name changed to West Los Angeles No . 373, Oct. 12, 1939.

Argonaut, San Francisco, 1916. Consolidated with Argonne No. 514, as Argonaut-Argonne
No. 461, Dec. 5, 1968.

374

Jewel, San Francisco, 1906. Consolidated with Lincoln No. 470 and Bay City No . 526, as
United No. 374, July I, 1973.

464

Alta Vista, San Francisco, 1916. Consolidated with Mount Vernon No. 517, as Alta VistaMount Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.

375

Richmond Lodge, San Francisco, 1906. Consolidated with Military Service No. 570 as
Brotherhood No . 375, July I, 1974.

467

Culver City, Culver City, 1917. Consolidated with James A. Foshay No. 641, as Culver
City-Foshay N.o. 467, December 4, 1973.

384

El Centro, El Centro, 1907. Consolidated with Oasis No. 664, as El Centro No . 384, Aug.
30, 1937.

470

Lincoln, San Francisco, 1918. Consolidated with Jewel No. 374 and Bay City No. 526, as
United No. 374, July I, 1973.

386

Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to Jurisdiction of Philippine Islands, Dec. 19,
1912.

474

Victory, San Francisco, 1919. Consolidated with San Francisco No. 360, as San FranciscoVictory No. 360, Nov. 29, 1961.

388

Parnassus, San Francisco, 1907. Consolidated with Presidio No . 354, as Parnassus-Presidio
No. 388, Dec. I, 1969.

478

398

Fowler, Fowler, 1908. Consolidated with Selma No. 277, as Selma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.

480

405

Moneta, 1909. Consolidated with Vermont Square No. 515 as Moneta No. 405, December
l, 1971.

Thousand Oaks, Berkeley, 1920. Consolidated with Indian Rock No. 638, as Thousand
Oaks No. 478, Oct. I, 1968.
Fellowship, Oakland, 1920. Consolidated with Fortitude No. 624, as Fellowship No. 480,
Dec. I, 1969.

484

410

Charter Rock, Berkeley, 1910. Consolidated with Berkeley No. 363, as Berkeley No. 363,
July I, 1968.

Albert Pike, Los Angeles, 1920. Consolidated with Sunset No . 352 as Sunset 352,
December 4, 1973.

489

413

Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consolidated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No. 221, Jan. 10, 1945.

East Bay, Orinda, 1920. Consolidated with Hillcrest No. 573, as East Bay No. 489, Dec . I,
1967.

495

414

Arlington, Los Angeles, 1910. Consolidated with Acacia No. 438, as Arlington No. 414,
Sept. 28, 1959.
Consolidated with Golden State No. 358, as Golden State No . 358, Aug. l, 1970.
York, Walnut Park, 1912. Consolidated with Florence No. 649, as Florence No. 423,
December 3, 1970.

Lebanon, San Francisco, 1921. Consolidated with Pacific No. 136, as Lebanon-Pacific No .
136, September 7, 1971.
Riverdale, Riverdale, 1921. Consolidated with Welcome No . 255, as Welcome No. 255,
May 18, 1943.

423
426

Midway, Taft, 1912. Consolidated with Maricopa No. 434, as Taft-Midway No . 426, July
l, 1973.

496
514

Argonne, San Francisco, 1922 . Consolidated with Argonaut No. 461, as Argonaut-Argonne
No. 461, Dec. 5, 1968.

515

Vermont Square, Inglewood, 1922. Consolidated with Moneta No. 405, as Moneta No. 405,
December l , 1971.

380

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

516

Taft, Taft, 1922. Consolidated with Midway No. 426 as Taft Midway No. 426, July 1, 1972.

597

517

Mount Vernon, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Alta Vista No. 464, as Alta VistaMount Vernon No. 464, Dec. 2, 1968.

Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No. 628, as Truth No.
628, Feb. 14, 1939.

611

519

Euclid, Norwalk, 1922. Consolidated with Norwalk No. 315, as Norwalk-Euclid No. 315,
April 3, 1973.

Owensmouth, Owensmouth, 1925. Subsequent to the name of the community being changed
to Canoga Park, the ·name of the Lodge was changed to Canoga No. 611, Oct. 15, 1931.

612

Woikman, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City No. 612, Oct. 10, 1929.

521

Piedmont, Piedmont, 1922. Consolidated with Orinda No. 704, as Orinda No. 521, Dec·. 1,
1966.

616

Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R. E. Dolley No. 616, Oct. 14, 1937.

522

Sunrise, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Belvedere No. 539, as Belvedere Sunrise
No. 522, July 1, 1968.
Belvedere Sunrise, Monterey Parle, 1922. Consolidated with Ramona No. 457 as Monterey
Parle 457, April 2, 1974.

624

Fortitude, Oakland, 1925. Consolidated with Fellowship No. 480, as Fellowship No. 480,
Dec. l, 1969.
·

628

Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No. 597, as Truth No.
628, Feb. 14, 1939.

526

Bay City, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Jewel No. 374 and Lincoln No. 470, as
United No. 374, July l, 1973.

630

Ingleside, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Pyramid No. 562 as Ingleside-Pyramid
No. 562, December 4, 1973.

527

Covenant, Hawthorne, 1922. Consolidated with Henry S. Orme No. 458, as Henry S. Orme
No. 458, December 1, 1971.

638

Indian Rock, Berkeley, 1926. Consolidated with Thousand Oaks No. 478, as Thousand
Oaks No. 478, Oct. 1, 1968.

531

Alexandria, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Educator No. 554 as Educator No. 554,
October 2, 1974.

640

536

Seal Rock, San Francisco, 1922. Consolidated with Amity No. 370, as Amity-Seal Rock
No. 370, March 1, 1963.

641

Veritas, San Francisco, 1926. Consolidated with Jonathan No. 545, as Veritas-Jonathan No.
545, Dec. 3, 1963.
James A. Foshay, Playa del Rey, 1926. Consolidated with Culver City No. 467 as Culver
City-Foshay No. 467, December 4, 1973.

539

Belvedere, Monterey Park, 1922. Consolidated with Sunrise No. 522, as Belvedere Sunrise
No. 522, July 1, 1968.

646

Metropolitan, South Pasadena, 1926. Consolidated with South Pasadena No. 367 as South
Pasadena No. 367, December 10, 1973.

541

Henry Morse Stephens, Berkeley, 1923. Consolidated with Francis K. Shattuck No. 571, as
Shattuck-Stephens No. 541, Dec. 4, 1972.

649

Florence, Walnut Park, 1927. Consolidated with York No. 423, as Florence No. 423,
December 3, 1970.

542

Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, Oct. 12,
1950.

664

Oasis, El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, as El Centro No. 384, Aug.
30, 1937.

545

Jonathan, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Veritas No. 640, as Veritas-Jonathan No.
545, Dec. 3, 1963.

704

Orinda, Orinda, 1950. Consolidated with Piedmont No. 521, as Orinda No. 521, Dec. l,
1966.

550

Seaport, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with King Solomon's No. 260, as King
Solomon's Seaport No. 260, Dec. 5, 1963.

742

Morningside ~ark Inglewood, 1955. Consolidated with Manhattan No. 817, as Manhattan
No. 742, Dec. 5, 1972.

553

Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No. 554, as Educator No.
554, Feb. 16, 1940.

799

Bay Claire Vista, San Diego. Name changed to Clairemont Mesa No. 799, October 15,
1964.

554

Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Golden City No. 553, as Educator No.
554, Feb. 16, 1940.
Educator, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Alexandria 531 as Educator No. 554, October 2, 1974.

817

Manhattan, Inglewood, 1964. Consolidated with Morningside Park No. 742, as Manhattan
No. 742, Dec. 5, 1972.

554
559

Craftsmen, Los Angeles, 1923. Consolidated with Palestine No. 351, as Palestine-Craftsmen
No. 351, July 1, 1972.

562

Pyramid, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Ingleside No. 630 as Ingleside-Pyramid
No. 562, December 4, 1973.

566

James A. Garfield, Los Angeles, 1923. Consolidated with Wilshire No. 445, as WilshireGarfield No. 445, Oct. 1, 1973.

570

Military Service, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Richmond No. 375 as Brotherhood No. 375, July 1, 1974.

571

Francis K. Shattuck, El Cerrito, 1923. Consolidated with Henry Morse Stephens No. 541, as
Shattuck-Stephens No. 541, Dec. 4, 1972.

573

Hillcrest, Orinda, 1923. Consolidated with East Bay No. 489, as East Bay No. 489, Dec. l,
1967.

382

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1850
Jonathan D. Stevenson ... G.M.
California No. 1
BomJan.1, 1800
Died Feb. 14, 1894

John A. Tutt ........... D.G.M.
Caleb Fenner ......... S.G.W.
Sashel Woods ......... J.G.W.
Levi Stowell ............. G.T.
John H. Gihon ........... G.S.

1851
John A. Tutt ............. G.M.
Tehama No. 3
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Died May 19, 1900

Benj. D. Hyam ......... D.G.M.
E. F. F. Ellis ........... S.G.W.
Benj. S. Olds .......... J.G.W.
Townsend A. Thomas .... G.T.
Levi Stowell ............. G.S.

1852
Benjamin D. Hyam ....... G.M.
Benicia No. 5
Born March 1, 1813
Died July 12, 1893

Chas. M. Radcliff. . . . . . D.G.M.
J. R. McConnell ........ J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Levi Stowell ............. G.S.

1853
Charles M. Radcliff ....... G.M.
Tuolumne No. 8
Born Feb. 5, 1818
Died Dec. 31, 1889

T. A. Thomas ......... D.G.M.
Jno. R. Crandall ....... S.G.W.
Richard F. Knott ....... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Levi Stowell ............. G.S.

1854
William H. Howard ....... G.M.
San Jose No. 10
Born Aug. 29, 181 O
Died Sept. 18, 1866

Nath. G. Curtis ........ D.G.M.
Rector E. Cole ........ S.G.W.
Robt. N. Wood ......... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Levi Stowell ............. G.S.

1855
William H. Howard ....... G.M.
T. A. Thomas ......... D.G.M.

Jno. A. Raymond ...... S.G.W.
Sam A. Merritt ......... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Levi Stowell ............. G.S.

1856
William H. Howard ....... G.M.
John A. Raymond ...... D.G.M.
Lemuel Lyon .......... S.G.W.
Peter W. Randle ....... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1857
Nathaniel G. Curtis ....... G.M.
Washington No. 20
Born Feb. 8. 1825
Died July 12. 1897

Charles Marsh ........ D.G.M.
Aaron D. Park ......... S.G.W.
John B. Pope .......... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1858
Nathaniel G. Curtis ....... G.M.
P. W. Shepheard . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. McCormick ....... S.G.W.
Jas. W. Bicknell ........ J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell . . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis ....... G.M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D.G.M.
Ebenezer Lane ........ S.G.W.
Thos. P. Hawley ....... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis ....... G.M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D.G.M.
Wm. C. Belcher ....... S.G.W.
Alvinza Hayward ....... J.G.W.
Addison Martin .......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1861
James L. English ........ G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born June 5, 1813
Died May 29, 1889

Wm. C. Belcher ....... D.G.M.
John W. Harville ....... S.G.W.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ..... J.G.W.

383

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

James Laidley ...... • .... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1862
William C. Belcher ....... G.M.
Corinthian No. 69
Born Dec. 12, 1820
Died Sept. 1, 1895

Gil. B. Claiborne ....... D.G.M.
John W. Harville ....... S.G.W.
John B. Hewson ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1863
William C. Belcher ....... G.M.
Gil. B. Claiborne ....... D.G.M.
Louis Cohn ........... S.G.W.
Wm. A. Davies ........ J.G.W.
James Laidley ..... • ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1864
William C. Belcher ....... G.M.
Gil. B. Claiborne ....... D.G.M.
Wm. A. Davies ........ S.G.W.
Isaac S. Titus .......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1865
Gilbert B. Claiborne ...... G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born.1828
Died Dec. 1, 1908

Wm. A. Davies ........ D.G.M.
Isaac S. Titus ......... S.G.W.
Henry H. Hartley ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1866
Gilbert B. Claiborne ...... G.M.
Henry H. Hartley. . . . . . . D.G.M.
Wm. H. Peterson ...... S.G.W.
Thomas Beck ......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1867
William A. Davies ........ G.M.
Columbia No. 28
Born Feb. 5, 1827
Died June 20, 1916

Henry H. Hartley ....... D.G.M.

Thomas Beck ......... S.G.W.
Leonidas E. Pratt ...... J.G.W.
James A. Laidley ......... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1868
Charles Marsh .......... G.M.
Nevada No. 13
Born Dec. 6, 1825
Died April 28, 1876

Leonidas E. Pratt ...... D.G.M.
Theo. G. Cockrill ...... S.G.W.
Fred. F. Barss ......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1869
Leonidas E. Pratt ........ G.M.
Mountain Shade No. 18
Born Aug. 29. 1833
Died Oct. 25, 1886

Isaac S. Titus ......... D.G.M.
John S. Ward ......... S.G.W.
Richard Dale .......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1870
Leonidas E. Pratt ........ G.M.
Isaac S. Titus ......... D.G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ....... S.G.W.
Benj. H. Freeman ...... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1871
Leonidas E. Pratt ........ G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin. . . . . . . D.G.M.
Ben. H. Freeman ...... S.G.W.
Geo. C. Perkins ........ J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........... , G.S.

1872
Leonidas E. Pratt ........ G.M.
Benj. H. Freeman ...... D.G.M.
Geo. C. Perkins ....... S.G.W.
John M. Browne ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1873
Isaac S. Titus ........... G.M.
San Joaquin No. 19
Born Oct. 14, 1827
Died April 22, 1892

Geo. C. Perkins ....... D.G.M.
Jno. M. Browne ....... S.G.W.
Chas. E. Mitchell ....... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1874
George C. Perkins ....... G.M.
Oroville No. 103
Born Aug. 23, 1839
Died Feb. 26, 1923

John M. Browne ....... D.G.M.
Wm. B. Parker ........ S.G.W.
Wiley J. Tinnin ......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1875
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Naval No. 87
Born May 10, 1831
Died Dec. 7, 1894

Chas. L. Wiggin ....... D.G.M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ........ S.G.W.
Jacob H. Neff .......... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1876
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ....... D.G.M.
Wm. S. Wells ......... S.G.W.
Solon W. Craigue ...... J.G.W.
James Laidley ........... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1877
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Chas. L. Wiggin ....... D.G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor ....... S.G.W.
Wm. H. Crane ......... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1878
John M. Browne ......... G.M.
Wm. W. Traylor ........ D.G.M.
Wm. H. Crane ......... S.G.W.
Robt. C. Broder ........ J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ........•... G.S.

1879
William W. Traylor ....... G.M.
California No. 1
Born March 17, 1822
Died Jan. 18, 1883

Samuel C. Denson. . . . . D.G.M.
Clay W. Taylor ........ S.G.W.
John Q. Adams ........ J.G.W.
Moses Heller . . . . . . . . . . . . G. T.
Alex G. Abell . . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1880
Samuel C. Denson ....... G.M.
Union No. 58
Born Sept. 23. 1839
Died July 26. 1917

Clay W. Taylor ........ D.G.M.
John Q. Adams ........ S.G. W.
0. W. Hollenbeck ...... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1881
Clay W. Taylor .......... G.M.
Western Star No. 2
Born Sept. 1o. 1844
Died May 1, 1897

John Q. Adams ........ D.G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines ..... S.G.W.
Thos. J. Bowers ....... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1882
Clay W. Taylor .......... G.M.
Jonathan D. Hines ..... D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... S.G.W.
George Hinds ......... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1883
Jonathan D. Hines ....... G.M.
San Buevaventura No. 214
Born Jan. 1, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886

Wiley J. Tinnin ........ D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ••.... S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker ....... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1884
Jonathan D. Hines ....... G.M.
Wiley J. Tinnin ........ D.G.M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ...... S.G.W.
Hiram N. Rucker ....... J.G.W.
Moses Heller ............ G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1885
Wiley J. Tinnin .......... G.M.
Trinity No. 27
Born Oct. 7, 1829
Died Nov. 24, 191 O

Edm. C. Atkinson ...... D.G.M.
Hiram N. Rucker ....... S.G.W.
Henry H. Knapp ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell ............ G.S.

1886
Edmund C. Atkinson ..... G.M.
Sacramento No. 40
Born Nov. 17, 1837
Died March 20, 1911

Hiram N. Rucker ....... D.G.M.

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Morris M. Estee .... ... S.G.W.
Alvah R. Conklin ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .... . G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. .......... G.S.

Henry S. Orme ........ D.G.M.
Jas. B. Stevens ... .... S.G.W.
Edw. M. Preston .. .. ... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.

1887
Hiram N. Rucker ......... G.M.
La Grange No. 99
Born Sept. 6 , 1844
Died Dec. 13, 1905

Henry S. Orme ....... . . . G.M.

Morris M. Estee ... .... D.G.M.
Alvah R. Conklin ... . ... S.G.W.
Wm. Johnston ......... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. .. ....... . G.S.

1888
Morris M. Estee .... ..... G.M.
California No. 1
Born Nov. 23, 1834
Died Oct. 7, 1903

1889
Morris M. Estee . . . . . . . . . G.M.
William Johnston ...... D.G.M.
Chas. R. Gritman .. .... S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme ........ J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ..... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .... .. ..... . G.S.
~

Alvah R. Conklin .... .... . G.M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Oct. 5, 1897

William Johnston . . . . . . D.G.M.
Chas. R. Grttman . ..... S.G.W.
Henry S. Orme . .. . .. . . J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding .. . . . G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1891
William Johnston ........ G.M.
Franklin No. 143
Born June 2, 1825
Died Nov. 14, 1905

Chas. R. Grttman ... ... D.G.M.
Henry S. Orme . .... ... S.G.W.
Jas. B. Stevens ... . .. .. J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding ... .. G.T.
George Johnson .. ....... G.S.

1892
Charles R. Gritman .... .. G.M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1894

So. Ca~lornia No. 278
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1912

Jas. B. Stevens ........ D.G.M.
Edw. M. Preston ..... .. S.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucas .... .... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ...... . . G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1894
James B. Stevens .. . . ... G.M.

Alvah R. Conklin ..... .. D.G.M.
William Johnston ... ... S.G.W.
Marc. D. Boruck ....... J.G.W.
Nathan W. Spaulding . .... G.T.
Alex G. Abell .. .... ...... G.S.

1890

1893

Young No. 12
Born March 27, 1841
Died Dec. 6, 1919

Edw. M. Preston ... . ... D.G.M.
Thomas Flint ........ . . J.G.W.
Wm. T. Lucas ... ...... S.G.W.
Edward Coleman . ..... .. G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.

1895
Edward M. Preston .... .. G.M.
Nevada No . 13
Born May 4, 1841
Died April 24, 1903

Wm . T. Lucas . . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Thomas Flint . ......... S.G.W.
F. M. Angellotti ... .... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .. ...... G.T.
George Johnson ..... .... G.S.

1896
William T. Lucas .. . .... .. G.M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March 18, 1850
Died March 21 , 1931

Thomas F~nt .......... D.G.M.
F. M. Angellotti .. . . .... S.G.W.
Chas. L. Patton ... . . .. . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .... .... G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1897
Thomas Flint ... . .... . ... G.M.
Texas No. 46
Born May 19, 1858
Died Nov. 18, 1936

F. M. Angellotti ..... .. . D.G.M.
Chas. L. Patton ........ S.G.W.
Jas. A. Foshay ... .... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ....... . G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

385

1898

1903

1908

Frank M. Angellotti ..... .. G.M.

1913

Charles W. Nutting ..... .. G.M.

Oscar Lawler .... . ....... G.M.

John D. Murphey .... .. .. G.M.

Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
D1ed May 23, 1932

Chas. L. Patton .... ... . D.G.M.
Jas. A. Foshay .. .... .. S.G. W.
Wm. S. Wells ...... ... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . . . . . . . . G. T.
George Johnson ...... .. . G.S.

1899
Charles L. Patton . . . . . . . . G.M.
California No. 1
Born 1865
Died April 11 , 1923

Jas. A. Foshay . ....... D.G.M.
Wm . S. Wells ... .... .. S.G.W.
0. S. Henderson . .... . . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ...... . . G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.

1900
James A. Foshay ...... .. G.M.
So. California No. 278
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914

Wm. S. Wells .. ....... D.G.M.
0. S. Henderson ..... . S.G.W.
Chas. W. Nutting .... . .. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . ... .... G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards .. ....... G.L.

Evening Star No. 186
Born Oct. 3, 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917

Geo. W. Hunter .. ..... . D.G.M.
Motley H. Flint . ........ S.G.W.
Edw. H. Hart . ......... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .. . .... . G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ... . ..... G.L.

East Gate No. 290
Born April 2, 1875
D1ed Jan. 3, 1966

W. Frank Pierce .... ... D.G.M.
Dana R. Weller ... ... .. S.G.W.
A. J. Monroe .. ........ J .G.W.
Edward Coleman .... . ... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Alta No. 333
Born July 7, 1863
Died Sept. 15, 1945

Benj. F. Bledsoe ... .... D.G.M.
Alb. G. Burnett ..... .. . S.G.W.
F. V. Keesling .. . ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . ... ... G.T.
John Whicher ...... . .... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. . . ... .. G.L.

1904

1909

1914

George W. Hunter ..... . . G.M.

W. Frank Pierce . . ....... G.M.

Benj. F. Bledsoe .... .. ... G.M.

Humboldt No. 79
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1925

Motley H. Flint ..... . ... D.G.M.
Edw. H. Hart ......... . S.G.W.
Geo. M. Perine . ... .. .. J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... . . ... G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards . ........ G.L.

Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 191 0

Dana R. Weller . ...... . D.G.M.
A. J. Monroe .......... S.G.W.
Wm. P. Filmer .. . . ..... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman •... .... G.T.
John Whicher ... . ....... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

San Bernardino No . 348
Born Feb. 8. 1874
Died Oct. 30. 1938

Alb. G. Burnett ..... ... D.G.M.
F. V. Keesling .... .. . .. S.G.W.
W. Rh. Hervey .. .... .. . J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. ... .. G.T.
John Whicher .. ... ... ... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . . . . . . . . . G.L.

1905

1910

1915

Motley H. Flint ... .... ... . G.M.

Dana R. Weller .. .. . . ... . G.M.

Albert G. Burnett ...... . .. G.M.

East Gate No. 290
Born Feb. 19. 1865
Died July 14, 1930

Edward H. Hart .... .... D.G.M.
Geo. M. Perine ........ S.G.W.
Reuben H. Lloyd ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman . .... . . . G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards ...... . .. G.L.

So. Cal~omia No. 278
Born March 24. 1874
Died Jan. 9, 1947

A. J. Monroe .......... D.G.M.
Wm. P. Filmer ...... . .. S.G.W.
J. D. Murphey .. ...... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ........ G.T.
John Whicher .. . ..... . .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . . . .. .. . . G.L.

Santa Rosa No. 57
Born April 9, 1856
Died Aug. 15, 1923

F. V. Keesling ......... D.G.M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ... .. .. S.G.W.
Bradford Webster .... .. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . ... . . . G.T.
John Whicher ... ..... ... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ..... .. .. G.L.

1901
William S. Wells .. .. ..... G.M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919

0 . S. Henderson ....... D.G.M.
Chas. W. Nutting ...... S.G.W.
Geo. W. Hunter ..... .. . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ...... . . G.T.
George Johnson ..... . .. . G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards .... . • ... G.L.

1902
Orrin S. Henderson .... .. G.M.
Morning Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940

Chas. W. Nutting . .. . .. D.G.M.
Geo. W. Hunter ... .... S.G.W.
Motley H. Flint ........ . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ..... G.T.
George Johnson . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Wm . H. Edwards ......... G.l.

1906

1911

Edward H. Hart .......... G.M.

1916

Alonzo J. Monroe . ....... G.M.

Francis V. Keesling .... .. G.M.

Live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917

Geo. M. Perine ... ..... D.G.M.
Reuben H. Lloyd .. ... . S.G.W.
Oscar Lawler . ..... ... . J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ..... . .. G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Wm. H. Edwards . . . . . . . . . G.L.

Humboldt No. 79
Born Oct. 19, 1858
Died June 14, 1922

Wm. P. Filmer .... .. ... D.G.M.
J. D. Murphey .. ... .. . . S.G.W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ..... ... G.T.
John Whicher .. .... ..... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ..... . ... G.L.

California No. 1
Born Feb. 17, 1877
Died Sept. 25, 1963

Wm. Rh. Hervey .... . .. D.G.M.
Bradford Webster ...... S.G.W.
Charles A. Adams ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ...... . G.T.
John Whicher ....... ... . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... . .... G.L.

1907

1912

1917

George M. Perine ........ G.M.

Wm. P. Filmer ........ .. . G.M.

Wm. Rhodes Hervey . . . .. G.M.

Pacific No. 136
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933

Reuben H. Lloyd . . . .... D.G.M.
Oscar Lawler ......... S.G.W.
W. Frank Pierce ....... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman ... ..... G.T.
George Johnson ......... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. . .. .. .. G.L.

King Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942

Jno. D. Murphey . ...... D.G.M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ....... S.G.W.
Alb. G. Burnett .... .. ... J.G.W.
Edward Coleman .... . . . . G.T.
John Whicher .. ....... .. G.S.
Thomas J . Baker ... ...... G.L.

Pentalpha No. 202
Born March 26, 1870
Died Feb. 1, 1953

Bradford Webster . .. ... D.G.M.
Charles A. Adams ..... S.G.W.
Geo. F. Rodden ... .... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. .... . G.T.
John Whicher .. .. ....... G.S.
Thomas J . Baker ......... G.L.

386

387

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1918

1923

1928

1933

1938

1943

Bradford Webster ..... . .. G.M.

Arthur S. Crites .. .... .... G.M.

Gustav A. Hutaff ...... . .. G.M.

James B. Gist. . .. . .. .. . . G.M.

Leon 0. Whitsell . . .... ... G.M.

Claude H. Morrison ...... G.M.

Live Oak No. 61
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Died June 4, 1941

Charles A. Adams . .... D.G.M.
Geo. F. Rodden ..... .. S.G.W.
Sam. E. Burke .... . ... . J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher .... ....... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. ....... G.L.

Bakersfield No. 224
Born Feb. 4, 1879
Died Apr. 28, 1957

David J. Reese . ....... D.G.M.
Alb. E. Boynton . .... ... S.G.W.
Geo. L. Jones . ....... . J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........ ... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. ....... G.L.

Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 1933

C. M. Wollenberg .•.... 0.G.M.
J. S. Ross .......... . . S.G.W.
Robt. B. Gaylord . , .. ... J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . ... .. ..... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . . . . . . . . . G.L.

Pentalpha No. 202
Born Aug. 8, 1868
Died April 25, 1954

R. V. Whiting .......... D.G.M.
Earl Warren ........... S.G.W.
Rollie W. Miller ........ J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ......... G.L.

Orange Grove No. 293
Born July 10, 1876
Died Feb. 25, 1966

William H. Waste ..... • D.G.M.
William B. Ogden ...... S.G.W.
Lloyd E. Wilson •....... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ........... G.L.

San Diego No. 35
Born July 10, 1887
· Died Nov. 2, 1953

Gilbert C. DeForest .... D.G.M.
Lawrence C. Kelley .... S.G.W.
Arthur W. Brouillet .. ... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling .•..... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . • . . . . . . . G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

1919

1924

1929

1934

1939

1944

Charles Albert Adams ... . G.M.

David J. Reese .... .. .. .. G.M.

C. M. Wollenberg .• . ... .. G.M.

Randolph V. Whiting ..... G.M.

William B. Ogden ........ G.M.

Gilbert C. DeForest ...... G.M.

Excelsior No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Died May 1, 1962

Geo. F. Rodden ....... D.G.M.
Sam. E. Burke . ....... S.G.W.
Wm. A. Sherman ... ... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer .. . .... G.T.
John Whicker ............ G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . ........ G.L.

San Buenaventura No. 214
Born Aug . 22, 1871
Died Nov. 9, 1934

Alb. E. Boynton . . ..... . O.G.M.
Geo. L. Jones ..... .. . . S.G.W.
Will H. Fischer .. . ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer .. .. . .. G.T.
John Whicker . . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ....... .. G.L.

Starr King No. 344
Born March 13, 1873
Died Oct. 22, 1962

John S. Ross ... .. .• •.. D.G.M.
Robt. B. Gaylord ... . . .. S.G.W.
Frank W. Mixter ...•.... J .G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer .. . .. .. G.T.
John Whicher .... .. ... .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. . . . .... G.L.

King Solomon No. 260
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Died Feb. 4, 1952

Earl Warren • .• •.•.... . D.G.M.
Rollie W. Miller ... .. • .. S.G.W.
James T. Fraser .. •. . . . J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ..... .. G.T.
John Whicher . . . . . • . . . . . G.S.
Leslie E. Wood . . . . . . . . . . . G.L.

Hollywood No. 355
Born Aug. 26, 1876
Died Sept. 12, 1954

Lloyd E. Wilson . . ••. .. • D.G.M.
Frank M. Smith ... .. ... S.G.W.
Leslie E. Wood ...... •• J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer •....•• G.T.
John Whicher .....•..... G.S.
Walter Leonard •.••....•. G.L.

Reading No. 254
Born Sept. 18, 1889
Died Jan. 25, 1952

Lawrence C. Kelley ... . D.G.M.
Arthur W. Brouillet .. ... S.G.W.
John R. Moore ......... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . ...... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

1920

1925

1930

1935

1940

1945

George F. Rodden ....... G.M.

Albert E. Boynton .... .... G.M.

John Stewart Ross . .. .. . . G.M.

Earl Warren ............. G.M.

Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.M.

Lawrence C. Kelley ...... G.M.

Marin No. 191
Born Dec. 24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934

Sam. E. Bur1<e ....... .. D.G.M.
Wm . A. Sherman . . .... S.G.W.
Arthur S. Crites ... . . . .. J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer .... . . . G.T.
John Whicker ..... . .. . ... G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .... ..... G.L.

Oroville No. 103
Born Oct. 9, 1875
Died Feb. 22, 1945

Geo L. Jones ..... ... .. O.G.M.
Will H. Fischer ... . . ... S.G.W.
Gus A. Hutaff .. . . ..... . J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . ... . . .... . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ... ...... G.L

El Centro No. 384
Born May 21 , 1879
Died Aug. 31, 1952

Robt. B. Gaylord . . • . . . . D.G.M.
Frank W. Mixter ....... S.G.W.
James B. Gist .. . .... .. J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer . . .. ... G.T.
John Whicher ..... .... .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ....... .. G.L

Sequoia No. 349
Born March 19, 1891
Died July 9, 1974

Rollie W. Miller ........ D.G.M.
James T. Fraser ...... . S.G.W.
Leon 0. Whitsell ... .... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer . . ..... G.T.
John Whicher . .. .... . ... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ..... .... .. G.L

Ingleside No. 630
Born Aug. 16, 1895
Died Nov. 2, 1961

Frank M. Smith ......•. D.G.M.
Leslie E. Wood ... ..... S.G.W.
Claude H. Morrison .. .. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer . ••• . .• G.T.
John Whicher . .. .. . ..... G.S.
Walter Leonard . . . . . . . • . . G.L.

1921

1926

1931

1936

1941

Samuel E. Bur1<e .... .... G.M.

George L. Jones .... .... . G.M.

Robt. B. Gaylord ...... . . . G.M.

Rollie W. Miller .......... G.M.

Frank M. Smith .......... G.M.

Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Died Feb. 14, 1961

Wm . A. Sherman . . .... D.G.M.
Arthur S. Crites ....... . S.G.W.
David J. Reese .. . . ... . J.G.W.
Wm . Par1<er Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . . .. ... . ... G.S.
Thomas J . Baker . ........ G.L

Madison No. 23
Born May 11 , 1873
Died June 22, 1956

Oakland No. 188
Born Nov. 24, 1876
Died Aug. 4, 1953

Will H. Fischer ....... .. D.G.M. Frank W. Mixter . . . . . . . O.G.M.
Gus. A. Hutaff . .. . .. ... S.G.W. James B. Gist ........ . S.G.W.
C. M. Wollenberg .. . .. . J.G.W. Wm. A. Sitton . . ... . .. . J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer .. ..... G.T. Wm. Par1<er Filmer ... .. .. G.T.
John Whicher ....... .... G .S. John Whicher . . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. . ... . .. G.L. Thomas J. Baker ....... .. G.L

Sunset No. 352
Born Oct. 17, 1883
Died July 18, 1960

James T. Fraser ....... D.G.M.
Leon 0. Whitsell ....... S.G.W.
William H. Waste ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer . ... .. . G.T.
John Whicher •.•. . ..•... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood ........... G.L.

East Gate No. 290
Born Aprll 1, 1894
Died April 7, 1951

Leslie E. Wood. .. . . . . . D.G.M.
Claude H. Morrison .•.. S.G.W.
G.C. DeForest . ... .. ... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer .•.. . .. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . • • .. ..... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow ....... G.L.

Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 23, 1889
Died Oct. 24, 1945

Arthur W. Brouillet ....... G.M.
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21 , 1884
Died Sept. 18, 1953

John R. Moore .... . . .. S.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling . ...... G.T.
Lloyd E. W~son .......... G.S.
Chester H. Warlow . . . . . . . G.L.

1946
Jo~:r=~~:.r:e·7· • • • · · · · · G.M.
Born Sept. 1893
Died March 28, 1965

Chester H. Warlow. . . . . D.G.M.
Edward H. Siems ..... . S.G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer ....... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling .. .... . G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Arthur M. Warren ..... . ... G.L.

1922

1927

1932

1937

1942

1947

William A. Sherman .... .. G.M.

Will H. Fischer ...... . . ... G.M.

Frank W. Mixter ......... G.M.

James T. Fraser ........ . G.M.

Leslie E. Wood •.......•. G.M.

Chester H. Warlow ....... G.M.

Presidio No. 354
Born Sept. 17, 1880
Died Feb. 19, 1940

Arthur S. Crites ........ D.G.M.
David J. Reese .... ... . S.G.W.
Alb. E. Boynton ... .. ... J.G.W.
Wm . Par1<er Filmer . ...... G.T.
John Whicher ......... . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker ... .... . . G.L.

Wilshire No. 445
Born Sept. 11 , 1875
Died Oct. 4, 1953

Gus. A. Hutaff ....... .. D.G.M.
C. M. Wollenberg ...... S.G.W.
J. S. Ross .......... . .. J.G.W.
Wm. Parker Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher .. .... . .. . . G.S.
Thomas J. Baker .. .. . . .. . G.L.

Exeter No. 424
Born Dec. 30, 1873
Died May 22, 1947

James B. Gist . . ...... . D.G.M.
Wm. A. Sitton ......... S.G.W.
R. V. Whiting .......... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ....... G.T.
John Whicher . ........ .. G.S.
Thomas J. Baker . . . . . . . . . G.L.

Humboldt No. 79
Born Aug. 28, 1868
Died June 26, 1953

Leon 0. Whitsell ....... O.G.M.
William H. Waste ...... S.G.W.
William B. Ogden ...... J.G.W.
Wm. Par1<er Filmer ...... . G.T.
John Whicher ........... G.S.
Leslie E. Wood .... ... . . . . G.L.

Provident No. 609
Born April 2, 1897
Died Jan. 28, 1974

Claude H. Morrison .... D.G.M.
Gilbert C. DeForest .••• S.G.W.
Lawrence C. Kelley .... J.G.W.
Wm . Par1<er Filmer .....•. G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Chester H. Warlow .... . .. G.L.

Fresno No. 247
Born June 30, 1889
Died December 10, 1963

Edward H. Siems ...... D.G.M.
Ellsworth Meyer ....... S.G.W.
Arthur Paulsen ........ J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .. ........ G.S.
Arthur M. Warren .. . ...... G.L.

388

389

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1948

1953

1958

1963

1968

1973

Edward H. Siems ........ G.M.

Frank Harwell, Jr......... G.M.

Phil N. Myers ............ G.M.

Elmer W. Heald .•....... G.M.

Robert A. Crigler ......... G.M.

Raymond A. Ebbage ..... G.M.

Plymouth No. 560
Born December 7, 1903

Ellsworth Meyer ....... D.G.M.
Arthur Paulsen ........ S.G.W.
Louis C. Drapeau ...... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Arthur M. Warren ......... G.L.

Beverly Hills No. 528
Born October 4, 1898
Died Jan. 25, 1966

Henry C. Clausen ...... D.G.M.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.... S.G.W.
L. Harold Anderson .... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

McCloud Lodge No. 430
Born, January 12, 1897
Died July 6, 1972

Joe L. Shell ........... D.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer ..... S.G.W.
Guy B. Mize ........... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

1954

1959

Ellsworth Meyer ......... G.M.

Henry C. Clausen ........ G.M.

Joe L. Shell ............. G.M.

Ingleside No. 630
Born June.30, 1905

Arthur Poulsen ........ D.G.M.
Louis C. Drapeau ...... S.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ...... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Walter H. E. von Kansky ... G.L.

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. . . . D.G.M.
L. Harold Anderson .... S.G.W.
Leo E. Anderson ....... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson . . . . . . . . . . G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

1950

1955

Arthur Paulsen .......... G.M.

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr...... G.M.

Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 1890
Died Sept. 20, 1969

Louis C. Drapeau ...... D.G.M.
Arthur M. Warren ...... S.G.W.
Frank Harwell, Jr.•..... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Walter H. E. von Kansky ... G.L.

Loyalty No. 529
Born Oct. 3, 1901
Died May 22, 1969

L. Harold Anderson . . . . D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ...... S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers .......... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

1951

1956

Louis C. Drapeau ........ G.M.

L. Harold Anderson ...... G.M.

Poinsettia No. 633
Born Aug. 30, 1885
Died December 19, 1973

Arthur W. Marren ...... D.G.M.
Frank Harwell, Jr....... S.G.W.
Henry C. Clausen ...... J.G.W.
Francis V. Keesling ......• G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Walter H. E. von Kansky ... G.L.

1952
Arthur M. Warren ........ G.M.
Mt. Davidson No. 481
Born December 27, 1901
Died May 21, 1964

Frank Harwell, Jr....... D.G.M.
Henry C. Clausen ...... S.G.W.
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.... J.G.W..
Francis V. Keesling ....... G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1899
Died October 16, 1974

San Diego No. 35
Born February 18, 1892
Died May 5, 1974

Alfred F. Breslauer ..... D.G.M.
Guy B. Mize .......... S.G.W.
Ira W. Coburn ......... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

1960
Alfred F. Breslauer ....... G.M.
Starr King No. 344
Born August 26, 1898
Died January 27, 1971

Guy B. Mize ........... D.G.M.
Ira W. Coburn ......... S.G.W.
Elmer W. Heald ........ J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell . . . . . . G.L.

1961
Guy B. Mize ............. G.M.
Unity No. 368
Born April 23, 1901

Leo E. Anderson ....... D.G.M.
Phil N. Myers ......... S.G.W.
Joe L. Shell ........... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .......... G.L.

Ira W. Coburn. . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Elmer W. Heald ....... S.G.W.
Theodore Mariam ...... J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ......... G.T,
Edward H. Siems . . . . . . . . G.S.
Donald G. Campbell . . . . . . G.L.

1957

1962

Leo E. Anderson ......... G.M.

Ira W. Coburn ........... G.M.

Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20, 1902

Phil N. Myers .......... D.G.M.
Joe L. Shell ........... S.G.W.
Alfred F. Breslauer ..... J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .......... G.S.
Elbert W. Davis .•........ G.L.

John Marshall No. 636
Born June 28, 1916

Capital City No. 499
Born March 20, 1913

Theodore Mariam ...... D.G.M.
Myron E. Smith ........ S.G.W.
Laurence E. Dayton .... J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ..•..... G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

Chester R. MacPhee ... D.G.M.
Herbert A. Huebner .... S.G.W.
Lester S. McElwain ..... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

Burton Meyer, Jr....... D.G.M.
John F. Roberts, Jr..... S.G.W.
Kermit A. Jacobson .... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

1964

1969

Burton Meyer, Jr......... G.M.

Theodore Mariam .•...... G.M.

Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.M.

1974

1949
Liberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905

El Centro No. 384
Born Jan. 7, 1885

Doric No. 216
Born Jan. 26, 1904

Elmer W. Heald . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Theodore Mariam ..... S.G.W.
Myron E. Smith ........ J.G.W.
Arthur M. Warren ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

Chico No. 111
Born April 18, 191 O

Myron E. Smith . . . . . . . . D.G.M.
Laurence E. Dayton •... S.G.W.
John F. Porter ......... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Donald G. Campbell ...... G.L.

Golden West No. 455
Born June 5, 1905

Herbert A. Huebner .... D.G.M.
Lester S. McElwain .... S.G.W.
William H. Price ........ J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems . . . . . . . . G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

1965

1970

Myron E. Smith .......... G.M.

Herbert A. Huebner ...... G.M.

University No. 394
Born Dec. 2, 1906

Laurence E. Dayton .... D.G.M.
John F. Porter .•....... S.G.W.
Eugene S. Hopp ....... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

Wilshire No. 445
Born March 21 , 1902
Died March 25, 1974

Lester S. McElwain .... D.G.M.
William H. Price ....... S.G.W.
Raymond A. Ebbage ... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

1966

1971

Laurence E. Dayton ...... G.M.

Lester S. McElwain ....•• G.M.

Live Oak No. 61
Born Nov. 28, 1900

John F. Porter ......... D.G.M.
Eugene S. Hopp ....... S.G.W.
Robert A. Crigler ....... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger. . . . . . . . . G. T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

1967
Eugene S. Hopp ......... G.M.
King Solomon's Seaport
No. 260
Born April 25, 191 O

Robert A. Crigler ....... D.G.M.
Chester R. MacPhee ... S.G.W.
Herbert A. Huebner .... J.G.W.
Paul A. Pflueger ......... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
Harold N. Richards ....... G.L.

Verba Buena No. 403
Born January 1, 191 O

William H. Price. . . . . . . D.G.M.
Raymond A. Ebbage ... S.G.W.
Burton Meyer, Jr....... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

1972
William H. Price ......... G.M.
Evergreen No. 259
Born June 21, 1922

Raymond A. Ebbage ... D.G.M.
Burton Meyer, Jr....... S.G.W.
John F. Roberts, Jr..... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.
H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

Golden State No. 358
Born February 12, 1921

John F. Roberts, Jr..... D.G.M.
Kermit A. Jacobson .... S.G.W.
Donald B. McCaw ...... J.G.W.
Chester R. MacPhee ..... G.T.
Edward H. Siems ........ G.S.

H. Douglas Lemons ...... G.L.

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF INSPECTORS
Inspectors

Date of Commission

Inspectors
District

Niles 0. Millar ............ . ............ . .. .. ... July, 1932 . . .......... .. ... 146
Herben R. Hargrave .... . . ... . ... . ..... .. . September 15, 1934 . ........ ... ..... 418
Guido de Ghetaldi .... . . . . . ............. ... . . . October, 1938 ........ . ..... . .. 106
Wilfred W. Partridge . .. . ..... .... . . ......... March 31, 1952 .. .. ....... .... .. 500
Edward Farley .... . . . ......... .. . ...... ...... . Mayl2, 1952 .. . . .... ........ . 208
Edward C. Will .. . ... . .. ...... ........ . .... . . . July 14, 1955 ... ...... .. . . . ... 167
Frank Leroy Sutliff ......... . .. . ............ August 9, 1955 .... .. .. . ... .. ... 542
Ralph M. Hinds ........... . .. . ........ . ... October 29, 1955 . . .... . ...... . ... 118
Kenneth Dowell ..... . .... ... ...... .. .... .. . August 20, 1956 ............ . .... 605
James E. Bacon .... . .. .. .. . . . ......... . . . December 15, 1957 . .. . ... . . ..... ... 504
Percy W. Lindt . ...... . . ....... .... . .. ........ June 4, 1959 . . ........ ...... . 236
Elmer E. Ross .. . . ... ........... ..... ....... . June 8, 1959 . ... . ... ........ . 166
Thurlan Wm. Heidner .. .. . ..... . .. ..... . . . December 15, 1959 ... ... .. ... ...... 530
William Bottorff .......... ... . . . . .... . .... . . . April 22, 1960 ... . . .. . ... . ..... 678
Ray H. Paine .... .. .... . ....... .. . .. .. . . September 20, 1960 . .... . ..... . ..... 308
Larry C. Basker . . . .. .... . . . ... . . .. ....... . January I, 1961 ... .... . .. . .. ... . 156
John Clifton Carpenter . . . .. ....... . .. . . . . . September 28, 1961 ..... . . . ... .... .. 430
Ralph M. Webb .. . . . ............ .... ...... January I, 1962 ................ . 158
Rohen E. Crist .. ... ....... . .. .. .. .. ....... January I, 1962 .... ..... .. . ..... 688
James D. Kelso . ........ ..... ..... . .. .. . ... January I , 1962 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 592
William Lowell Hurd . ....... . ..... . .. . .. .. .. March 14, 1962 ......... . .. ..... 406
Rohen M. Montgomery . . ........ . . . ..... . .. January I, 1963 .. . .... . ......... 344
George E. Harrison . .. . .. . . .... ... .. .... ... October 18, 1963 ........... ... ... 568
Donald J. Shoemaker . .. ..... .... . . .. . ...... October 18, 1963 . .. .. ... .. . ..... . 684
Jacob Andrew Feth .. .......... ........ ...... March 4, 1964 . . .. .. .. . ........ 214
Alfred LeRoy Hayes . ......... . . . ............ March 26, 1964 .. ..... .......... 210
Casper J. Weir, Jr ... . .. . . .... .... .. ... . . ... January I, 1965 ......... . . .... .. 320
William W. Dickson, Jr . . . . ........... ... . .. January II, 1965 ..... . ....... . .. . 516
Charles K. Schenle .. ........ . ....... . .. . . . February 4, 1965 . .. .. ... ....... . . 564
Joseph Shelbome Babb .... ... .......... .... ... April 20, 1965 . . . . ... . . . . .. . .. . 244
John Duane Williams . ......... ........ ..... .. April 20, 1965 .. . . ...... .... . .. 603
Roland E. Soracco ... ........... ... . . ......... May 4, 1965 . ... ... . ....... .. 404
Donald Kenneth Baldwin .......... ... .......... June 19, 1965 .. .. . . . . ........ . 247
Leroy G. Connelly ..... ...... . . ....... . . . September 20, 1965 .. . .... . . . . .. . ... 630
Jack R. Vickers .. .. .. . . ... ... . ... .. ..... September 20, 1965 ... .... . .... . . .. . 518
Rohen A. Klinger ........... . . . ... . .. . . ... . January 4, 1966 . . . ........ . .... . 330
Donald Maltby ... ... . . .... . .. .. . ... . ... .. . January 7, 1966 .. .. .. . ... .. . .. .. 520
Stanley L. Channon ............. ... . . ........ . June 21, 1966 .. ....... ........ 616
Cornelius Kernan . ... . . ....... .... . .. .... September 29, 1966 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I IO
Leo B. Mark ... ... . .... ...... ......... .... October 8, 1966 .. . . . . . . ... . .... . 370
Phil Campbell ... . ...... . . .. . ... ........ . November 29, 1966 . ... . . . . . . . . ... .. 628
William A. Krueger ..... .... ..... .... .. . . November 29, 1966 .. ... ..... .. ... .. 234
Louis Becker . .. ........ . ...... .. ...... . . December 6, 1966 ..... . . . .. ... .... 333
Rohen William Dunwoody ... ... . ...... .... December 19, 1966 .. .... . .. .. . .... . 402
Harold A. Miller ...... ....... . . ....... ... December 30, 1966 .. .. .. . .......... 162
Willard Holmes Nutting, Jr ..... . . ...... ...... January 6, 1967 .. ...... . . ....... 152
Rohen Wilson Lewallen . ...... ... . ...... . . .. January 18, 1967 .... ... ........ .. 438
Hershel Chester Brown ... . .. . . .. ........ .. .. January 18, 1967 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Henry Perry Adams ... . . . . .. .. ... . . . .... .. ... April 7, 1967 .. . . . ......... ... 108
Edwin Wiley Branaum . . . .. . .. . .... .. ....... October 14, 1967 .. . . . . ...... ..... 570
John Elias Mikol ... . . . ...... . .. . . . . . . . ... November 3, 1967 . . . .. .. ... ..... .. 638
Jacques C. Bourguignon ......... ... ...... November 11, 1967 .. ... . ... ........ 546

Date of Commission

391
District

WalterW . Beck . ...... .. .. ...... ...... . . .. January I, 1968 .. ... .. . ... .. ... . 168
Edward Gail Freeman . . . .... .. . . ..... . .. .. .. January I, 1968 .. .. .. . . ..... . ... 342
Howard C. Davis .. .. . . .. ... . ..... ... . . .... January I, 1968 . .. . . ... ....... .. 426
Jerry John Ritch ......... .. .......... . . .... January 25, 1968 ....... . ........ . 512
D. Stanley Powell ....... .. . . ... .. ....... .. February 13, 1968 ............ . . ... 424
Nick G. Kerhoulas . . ... . . ...... .. .. ... . . .. February 26, 1968 ... ... . ... ....... 206
Gerald L. Christensen .. . ........ .. . . .. . .... February 29, 1968 . . . ....... ....... 222
Sam M. Pavlovich ... . . ... . ... ........ . . ..... April 26, 1968 . ......... ...... . 416
Rohen George Ingram . . . .. ..... . ... . ...... . ... May 31 , 1968 . . ...... .... . . ... 238
Ford Ellsworth Long ... .. ... . .... . ... ... . ... August 5, 1968 . . . ..... . . . ... .. . 328
Elwood E. Adams ...... .. ......... . .. . .. November 6, 1968 . . .... . . . . ... . . . . 646
Roy Jackson Henville .... .. ..... . ......... .. January 1, 1969 . ...... . . . . ...... 532
GeorgeD. Yale . . .. . ... ......... . . . ........ January 18, 1969 .. ........ ....... 248
John Allen Coulter . .... ........ ... . ... ..... January 18, 1969 .. ..... . .. .. . .... 246
William Harrison Schooler ...... .. . .. .. . . .. .. January 18 , 1969 . ............. .. . 240
Anhur Leland Hughes . . .... .. ... .. . .... .... January 18 , 1969 ... . .. . ....... . . . 239
Rohen Chester Eulberg .. .. .. ......... . ... . ... March I , 1969 ... .. .. .. .. . .. ... 694
John M. Eppler .. .. ... . .. . .. . ...... . ......... April IO, 1969 .. . ..... ........ . 412
Rodney H. Davis ..... . ... .. .. .. ........ ..... April 28, 1969 . .......... ... . . . 624
George Paul Leung .. . . . ....... ......... ...... May 20, 1969 ... .. .. .. ........ 338
Thomas H. Wright ..... . . . . .... ..... . .. ....... June 11, 1969 ... .. . .. ......... 550
James 0. Fourr ... . . .... .. ... ... ......... ... . . July 15, 1969 .. ......... .... .. 502
Martin Michalec ....... .. ................ September 26, 1969 . .. ... . . .. ....... 394
Maurice Jay Nonon ... ... ... . ............ . . October 6 , 1969 ... . . ... ...... . . . 576
Grant W. John ........ .... ...... . ... . . . .. December 15, 1969 ... .. ... .. ... . ... 626
Rohen Bruce Montgomery .. ... .. . .... . .... December 22, 1969 . . . ... . .. .. . ... .. 548
Louis Alfred Lasell, Sr .. ........ ..... . . ..... January 15, 1970 ..... ..... . . ..... 219
Roy Franklin Ward .. .. .. ... . ..... ....... ... January 20, 1970 ... .. . . . .. ....... 372
Michael Schredl ........ ..... . .. ... .. . . . ... January 20, 1970 ... ........ .. . .. . 378
Leon McClure ... . ..... . .... . ... . .. . ... .. .. January 20, 1970 ...... . ....... . .. 640
Paul William Smith' . . ........ . ..... . ....... . . March 4, 1970 . .... . .......... . 590
Joe Hammond .... . ..... ... . . .. .. . . ..... .. .. March 26, 1970 . .... ....... .. . . . 427
Floyd Lewis Baker . . .. ........ .. . ..... ....... April 11, 1970 ... .. ... .... .... . 216
Alben Fred Koula .. .. .. . . ...... . .. .... . . ..... April 11, 1970 ·..... .... ........ 365
Clayton G. Shane .... . .. . . ..... ..... . .. . . .... . May 6 , 1970 .... ...... ....... 250
Clifford R. Smith .......... ... .. .. .... .. . .. October 6, 1970 . .. . ....... ..... . 411
Samuel Rosen .... . . .... . ................ . . October 16, 1970 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 544
John B. Patterson .. . . ... . .. . . . ............. October 16, 1970 . .... .. . .. . ...... 572
Gene Chesnutt Gregory . ... . .. ... ... .. .. . ... January l, 1971 . . . ....... . . ..... 622
Rodney D. Pillow .. ........... . . ...... . .. .. January 1, 1971 ... ....... ...... . 607
Bums H. Hamlett . . ... ........ . . . . ... ...... January I, 1971 .... ... . .. ....... 614
Merle L. Coon . . . . .... ....... . ... . . . . ..... January I , 1971 .. . . ...... . . ..... 639
Jack L. Craven . .... .. ... . . . . ........ ... . .. January I, 1971 . . . .......... .. .. 538
James Alben Boyle ....... . .. . ..... . ........ January I, 1971 . .... .. ......... . 680
Donald Edwin Weisse ................ . . .. . . . January 13, 1971 ....... .. . ..... . . 150
William Henry Reed .. . .. .... .......... ..... January 13, 1971 ... ... . ..... .. ... 374
Clifford Helmuth Bailey .. . ....... .... ....... January 13, 1971 . ........ ........ 392
Ernest Wm. Gossett ... .......... .. .. .... .. February 27, 1971 .. ..... . .. ....... 101
Chas . VictorMcCaul .... .. . ..... ...... . . .. February27 , 1971 ... ....... ...... . 169
Daniel P . Halstead, Jr . . ... .. .. . ....... . .... February 27, 1971 ... . . . . . .. . . .. ... 160
Wm . Melvin Lustenberger .. . .... .. . . .. . .... February 27, 1971 . .. . ... ....... .. . 324
Thomas Jesus Meraz ... . . . .. .. ............. February 27, 1971 .. . ....... . .. . ... 334
Alexander K. Bell ...... .... . . .... . ... . . .. . . . March 5, 1971 .... . ........ .. . . 382
Harold M. Hand ...... ........ . ...... .. ..... March 19, 1971 .. . .. .. . ... ...... 526

392
Inspectors

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Date of Commission

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
District

Olin M. Heikkola ........................... March 19, 1971 ................. 574
Thor C. Fredericksen ......................... April 2, 1971 ................. 609
William J. Taylor ............................. July 26, 1971 ................. 428
Alvin N. Schmitz ........................... August 23, 1971 ................. 612
John Tryon Kelley .... . .... . ............. September 2, 1971 ................. 436
Pick Alfred Buob ........................ September 10, 1971 ................. 388
John D. Wilkins ......................... September 10, 1971 ................. 306
E. Ray Brown ........................... September 10, 1971 .. .. ............. 510
WilliamC. Leach ........................ September II, 1971 ................. 637
John James Nicholas ..................... September 15, 1971 ................. 116
Richard Simon .......................... September 15, 1971 ................. 104
Robert Lee Spinney ...................... September 20, 1971 ................. 161
Clarence L. Green ........... . ........... September 23, 1971 ................. 410
Edwin Richard Brooks ...................... October 15, 1971 ................. 120
William K. McKee, Jr...................... October 16, 1971 ................. 384
Leo R. Muller ............................. October 30, 1971 ................. 686
RichardA.Silva ........................... January I, 1972 ................. 119
John F. Liesman ........................... January 4, 1972 .... . ............ 642
Merlyn R. Ingalls .......................... January 4, 1972 ................. 528
James C. Seibert ........................... January 22, 1972 ................. 629
Richard B. Carter .......................... January 31, 1972 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 560
Sam L. Quint ............................ February 3, 1972 ................. 554
R. Dean Wolf ............................ February 10, 1972 ................. 634
Jerald Bright ............................... March 16, 1972 ................. 390
Herbert N. T. Bowden, Jr...... . ......... . ..... April I, 1972 ................. 212
Aoyd P. Weatherford ......................... June 22, 1972 ................. 602
Morton B. Glick ................... . .......... July 21, 1972 ................. 625
John 0. Collier ............................... July 21, 1972 ................. 644
Leland H. Doda ............................ August 19, 1972 ................. 107
JamesJ. Nash ........................... September 19, 1972 ................. 621
Ronald L. Broaddus ........................ October 13, 1972 ................. 635
Bernard Frank Cohn ...................... November 8, 1972 . . .. .. . . . . .. . . .. . 340
John R. Bench ........................... December 12, 1972 ................. 432
Robert Thomas Washburn ................. December 12, 1972 .............. : .. 524
Robert L. Lawson ........................ December 12, 1972 ................ : 556
Kenneth E. Himmler ........................ January 2, 1973 ................. I 00
William Oberst Rose ........................ January 2, 1973 ................. 211
Charles Lafayette Pitt ....................... January 2, 1973 ................. 206
Louis D. Rusconi .......................... January 2, 1973 ................. 337
George William Brown ...................... January 2, 1973 ................. 364
Richard C. Read ........................... January 2, 1973 ................. 552
Melvin F. Schuster ......................... January 16, 1973 ................. 626
Lowell Ellis Daniels ........................ January 24, 1973 ................. 224
George L. Carter ............. . ............ February 5, 1973 ................. 321
Wallace E. Lewis ......................... February 9, 1973 ................. 610
Delbert Neal Wade .......................... March 19, 1973 ................. 102
Raymond Allen Young ........................ April 18, 1973 ................. 217
Lavergne A. Gallagher ...................... August 13, 1973 ................. 601
Joseph W. Negus, Sr........................ August 24, 1973 ................. 606
WalterB. Marshall ....................... September 7, 1973 ................. 620
Samuel E. Harris ........................ September 23, 1973 ................. 534
Seiko Nakamatsu ........................ September 26, 1973 ................. 696
Millard Charles Totman ..................... October 13, 1973 ................. 204
Parise Voudouris .......................... October 13, 1973 ................. 218

Inspectors

Date of Commission

393
District

Carl C. Lau ......................... . ..... October 13, 1973 ................. 562
James E. Sloan ............................ October 13, 1973 ................. 566
Louis 0. Mason ........................... October 13, 1973 ................. 594
Jean L. Iribarren ......................... December 7, 1973 ................. 376
James R. Vaughan ....... . .... . ............ January 4, 1974 ................. 522
Raymond R. Frazier ...... : ................. January 4, 1974 ................. 608
Laurice Aoyd Perkins ...................... February 9, 1974 ................. 154
Roy Vernon Anderson ..................... February 12, 1974 .. ·............... 215
Arthur M. Tom ............................. March 10, 1974 ................. 148
Joel G. Martinez ............................ March 23, 1974 ................. 431
Gordon Vaughan ............................. May 14, 1974 ............. . ... 414
Roy W. Troutman, Jr.......................... June 30, 1974 ................. 114
J. William Carl ............................... June 30, 1974 ................. 368
OswaldJ. B. Lau ...... . .-... . ............... August 17, 1974 ................. 385
James S. Whitener .......................... August 24, 1974 ................. 632
Donald B. Hoffman ......................... August 27, 1974 ................. 582
Calvin Lee Elliott ................ . .......... August 27, 1974 ................. 540
William Glen E. Irwin ....................... August 30, 1974 ................. 536
Richard G. Burg ........................... August 30, 1974 ................. 558
James Eugene Lewis ..................... September 25, 1974 ................. 242
Raymond Albert Booth ................... September 25, 1974 ................. 422
W. Ronald Coale .......................... October 13, 1974 ................. 437

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Recognized and in Fraternal Relations with the
Grand Lodge of California

Argentina:
Alcibiades Lappas, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina, S.A.
Austria:
Friedrich Haas, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheergasse - 12, AIOIO, Vienna I, Austria
Belgium:
Grand Secretary,
265 Rue Royale, Brussels 1030, Belgium.

Bolivia:
Bernardo Hurtado Navarro, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo No. 564, La Paz, Bolivia, S.A.
Brazil:
The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Brasilia
Emidio Rodrigues Carreira
Gr. Chancellor of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 11 - 1128, Brasilia, D. F., Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Maranhao
Grand Secretary
Caixa Postal 4, Codo, Maranhao, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, 30000 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Para
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 333, Belem, Para, Brazil, S.A.
Grand Lodge of Parana
Antonio Andre Jansson, Gr. Secty.-Chancellor
Caixa Postal 1363, Curitiba, Parana, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of Pemambuco
Luiz Soares De Melo, Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 1415, Recife, Pemambuco, Brazil, S.A.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Grand Secretary of RRel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, Estado do Ceara, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Goias
Grand Secretary of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 332, 74000 Goiania, Estado de Goias, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Guanabara
Grand Secty. RRel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Guanabara, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Paraiba
Odemar Nacre Gomes, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Lodge of the State of Sao Paulo
Joao Zimennann, Gr. Secty. Foreign Relations
P.O. Box 8348, Sao Paulo, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
Grand Chancellor RRel. Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil, S.A.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of the State of Mato Grosso
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal 130, Campo Grande, Mato Grosso, Brazil, S.A.
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Grand Chanceler
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil, S.A.
Canada:
Alberta-Melvin P. Dunford, Grand Secty,
330 - 12th Ave., S. W., Calgary.
British Columbia-David M. Taylor, Grand Secty .,
1495 West 8th Ave., Vancouver VGH IC9, B.C.
Canada--(Province of Ontario)
J. A. Irvine, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Drawer 217 , Hamilton 20, Ontario.
Manitoba-R. L. Guy, Grand Secty.,
420 Corydon Ave., Winnipeg, Manitoba, R3L ONS.

The Grand Lodge of Piaui
Grand Chancellor
Caixa Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil, S.A .

New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, Saint John, New Brunswick.
Nova Scotia-Harold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 214, Halifax, Nova Scotia.

The Grand Lodge of Santa Catarina
Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal D-33, Florianopolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil, S.A.

Prince Edward lslandE. C. Macmillan, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetown. P.E.I.

395

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

QuebecW. Gordon Parker, Grand Secty.,
2295 St. Marks St., Montreal 108, Quebec.
Saskatch ewanE. A. Snell, Grand Seely.,
1930 Lome St., Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chile:
Juan B. Reyes Macaya, Grand Secty.,
Marcoleta 659, Chile, S.A.
China:
George W. Chen, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 758, Taipei, 100 Taiwan, China.
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Ernesto Gualteros Alvarez, Grand Seely.,
Apanado Aero 6672, Bogota, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia Occidental de Colombia
Luis Alberto Lesmes, Grand Secty.
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombia, S.A.
Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Antonio Beltran Galindo, Grand Secty.,
Carrera 43 No. 90-108, Barranquilla, Colombia, S.A.
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisc o de Paula Santander "
Serenisima Gran Logia Nacional de Colombia
Sixto R. Munoz A., Grand Seely.,
Apartado Aereo No. 19-69, Cartagena, Colombia, S.A.
Costa Rica:
Enrique Chaves B., Grand Seety.,
P.O. Box 10060, San Jose, Costa Rica.
Cuba:
Juan Varela Alvarez, Grand Secretary
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.
Denmark:
National Grand Lodge
Eigel Hanberg, Grand Seely.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Dominican Republic:
Raphael Pumarol Presto!, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 209, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
Eucador:
C. Esteban Woolfson, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Postal 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S.A.
El Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Humberto Acosta, Grand Seety.,
Sa Avenida Sur No. 126, San Salvador, El Salvador, C.A.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
England:
James W. Stubbs, Grand Seety.,
Freemasons Hall, Great Queen St., London, WC2B 5AZ England.
Finland:
Paavo Heikkila, Grand Secty.,
Kasarmikatu 16D, 00130 Helsinki 13, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
M. Garder, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, 92 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodges
Gerd Honisch, Grand Secty.,
Emser Str. 12-13, I Berlin 31, Germany.
Greece:
George Sergopoulos, Grand Secty.,
Achamon 19, Athens K, Greece.
Guatemala:
J. J. A. De Oviedo, Grand Seety.,
6a Avenida "A," 4-51, Zona I, Guatemala City, C.A.
Honduras:
Grand Secty. and Chancellor,
Apartado 135-C, Tegucigalpa, D.C., Honduras, C.A .
Iceland:
Karl Gudmundsson, Grand Seely.,
Skulagata 55. Reykjavik, Iceland.
India:
P. M. Sundaram, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 681, New Delhi I, India.
Iran:
Ahmad Aliabadi, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 11-1777, Tehran, Iran .
Ireland:

J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin 2, Ireland .
Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
Joseph Barner, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel.
Italy:
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Giuseppe Telaro, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome, Italy.

397

398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Japan:
Floyd J. Robenson, Grand Secty.,
1-3, Shibakoen, 4-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105, Japan.
Luxembourg:
Rene Gregorius, Grand Secty.,
62 R. F. Gangler, Luxembourg.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Mino M. Covo, Grand Secty. ,
Apanado Postal 1986, Mexico 1, D. F., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Baja California
Ismael Garcia Salazar, Grand Secty.,
Apanado Postal 134, Tijuana, Baja California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Humbeno Leyva Gonzales, Grand Secty.,
Apanado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
New Zealand:
P. J. Oliver, Grand Seely.,
P. 0. Box 6439, Wellington l, New Zealand.
Nicaragua:
David Pereyra, Grand Secty.,
Apanado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Rolf Sopler, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo 1, Norway.
Panama:
Guillermo Samuel Young, Grand Secty.,
Apanado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.
Paraguay:
Vincente A. Zayas, Grand Secty.,
Casilla Correo 1178, Asuncion, Paraguay, S.A .

Grand Lodge La Oriental Peninsular
Armando Alvarado Vera, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal No. 61
Merida, Yucatan, Mexico

Peru:
Albeno Montezuma Zavaleta, Grand Secty.,
Apanado 587, Lima, Peru.

Grand Lodge of Nuevo Leon
Isidro Valle Aguilar, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.

Philippines:
Esteban Munarriz, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelino, Manila, P. I.

Grand Lodge Occidental Mexicana
Grand Secretary
Lopez Cotilla No. 111, Guadalajara, Jalisco, Mexico.

Pueno Rico:
Alejandro Reyna F., Grand Secty.,
P. 0 . Box 8385, Santurce, P.R.Z.C. 00910.

Grand Lodge of the Pacific
Inocencio Higuera Verdugo, Grand Secty.,
Apanado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Eustaguid Zamora Elizondo, Grand Secty.,
Apro. Post 419, Tampico, Tamps ., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Marcial Fernandez Vazquez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 56 Veracruz, Ver. Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Jose Tovar Guarduno, Grand Secty.,
Apanado Postal 10, Mexico 1, D.F.

Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden (the Grand East of the Netherlands).
W. Veenstra, Grand Secty.,
22 Auwelen Burgwal, The Hague, Netherlands.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
R. G. Connon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box A.259, Sydney South 2000, N.S.W.

Queensland:
R. E. Minett, Grand Secty.,
Box 2204, G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Scotland:
E. Stuan Falconer, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburgh, EH2 3DH, Scotland.
Southern Africa:
R. J. G. Griesbach, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 61336, Marshalltown, Tvl., 2107, So. Africa
South Australia:
J. H. R. Garde, Grand Secty .,
Freemasons' Hall, North Terrace, Adelaide 5000, So . Australia.
Sweden:
Kjell Edstrom, Grand Secty .,
Frimurareorden, Blasieholmsgatan 11148, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Gilben E. Jomini, Grand Chancellor.,
Brunngasse 30, 3011 Berne, Switzerland .

399

400

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Tasmania:
H. Edwards, Grand Secty.,
44 Harrington St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Turkey:
Ziya Umur, Grand Secty .,
25 Nuruziya Solcak, Beyoglu, Istanbul, Turkey .
Venezuela:
(Rep. of Venezuela),
Francisco Fierro Quinonez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
Garnett Jackson, Grand Secty.,
300 Albert St., East Melbourne 3002, Australia.
Western Australia:
B. M. W. Bridgeman, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 6015 (Hay Street East, 6000), Perth, Western Australia.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
A
Abell (146), Ukiah.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
A. F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Albany (686), Albany.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexander Graham Bell (595),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisa! (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista-Mount Vernon (464),
San Francisco.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.
America (475), Los Angeles.

American River (795), Rancho Cordova.
Amity-Seal Rock (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Bellflower.
Angeles Mesa (625), Hawthorne.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Glendale.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut-Argonne (461),
San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Torrance .
Ashland (798), San Lorenzo.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco,
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow .
Bay View (401), Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles .
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills .
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills .

Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Boron (822), Boron.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Brotherhood (375), San Francisco.
Buckeye ( 195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame .

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield

Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482),
Granada Hills.

401

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (I) , San Francisco.
Calistoga (233) , Calistoga .
Callayomi (282), Middletown .
Camarillo (824) , Camarillo.
Camellia (805), Temple City.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.
Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley.
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Artesia.
Center (465) , Fresno.
Central California Research Lodge,
Fresno.
Channel (757), Stockton .
Charity (362), Campbell .
Chateau Thierry (569), Castro Valley.
Chico (111) , Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Citrol (656) , Brea.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Clairemont Mesa (799), San Diego.

Claude H. Morrison (747),
Chula Vista.
Clay (IOI) , Dutch Flat.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Clovis (417), Clovis .
Coachella (476) , Coachella.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga .
Coastside (762), Pacifica.
Colusa (240) , Colusa.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Composite (639), Los Angeles .
Concord (117) , Sacramento.
Conejo Valley (807), Thousand Oaks .
Confidence (203), Castroville .
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran .
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Covina (334), Covina.
Crescent (45), Crescent City .
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Crossroads (696) , San Diego.
Culver City-Foshay (467), Culver City.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino .
Dana R. Weller (765), Torrance.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland .
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

F
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), El Segundo.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook .
Far West (673), San Francisco .
Fellowship (480), Oakland .
Ferndale (193 ), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco .
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (423), Walnut Park .
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown (50), Forbestown.

Forest Hill (534) , San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Francis Drake (376),
South San Francisco.
Frank S. Land (819), Los Angeles.
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399) , San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

G
Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586) , Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492), Los Angeles.
Gateway (821), Seaside.
Gemini (825), Fremont.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Rosamond.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown .
George E. Tutt (722), Los Gatos.
George Washington (435),
San Francisco .
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles .
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Gl'endora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.
Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.

Golden Gate Speranza (30),
San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden Valley (796), San Bernardino.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln .
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608), Alhambra.
Granada Hills (790), Granada Hills.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Great Lights (818), Santa Clara .
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601 ), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
East Bay (489), Orinda
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego.
East Whittier (776), Whittier.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Educator (554), San Francisco.
Eel River (147) , Fortuna.
El Cajon Valley (576), El Cajon.
El Camino Research, Mountain View.
El Centto (384), El Centto.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Elk Grove ( 173), Elk Grove.
Elmhurst (610), Hayward.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

El Rancho (759), Pico Rivera.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
El Sereno (588), Los Angeles.
Elsinore (289) , Elsinore.
Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Estero (719), Morro Bay.
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
Evening Star (186), Ema.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Exeter (424), Exeter.

Hamilton (751), Novato.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hanford (279), Hanford.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Harding (584), Los Angeles.
Harmony (164), Sierra City .
Hartley (199), Lakeport.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hawthorne (647), Hawthorne.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Henry Clay (95), Sutter Creek.
Henry Knox (662), Los Angeles.
Henry S. Orme (458), Los Angeles .
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hermann (127), Burlingame.
Hermosa (557) , Manhattan Beach.
Hesperian (264), Santa Maria.
Highland (748), San Bernardino.

Highland Park (382), Los Angeles.
Hillsborough (737), Burlingame.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman .
Hiram (43), El Dorado.
Hollenbeck (319), Los Angeles.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Home (721), No. Hollywood.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Homitos (98), Homitos .
Howard (37), Yreka.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Hunters Poiit Naval (706),
San Francisco.
Huntington Beach (380),
Huntington Beach.

403

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I

M
Inglewood (421) , Inglewood.
Inyo (221) , Independence .
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los Angeles.

Illinoistown (51) , Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial .
Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest.
Ingleside-Pyramid (562),
San Francisco.

J
John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin .
Jordan (654) , Walnut Parle.
Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Justice (549), San Francisco.

James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
James Madison (572), Playa del Rey.
Janesville (232) , Janesville.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kilauea (330), Hilo, Hawaii.
King David's (209), San Luis Obispo .
King Solomon's Seaport (260),
San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.
Koolau (801), Kaneohe, Hawaii.

Kauai (589) , Lihue, Hawaii.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187) , Gilroy.
Kennan (420), Kennan.
Kem River Valley (827), Kemville.
Keystone (161), Milton.

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
La Canada (739), La Crescenta.
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
La Jolla (518), La Jolla.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Lake Tahoe (707), Al Tahoe.
Lakewood (728), Long Beach.
Lamanda Parle (627), Pasadena.
La Mesa (407), La Mesa.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Landmarle (253), Esparto.
La Parfaite Union (17), San Francisco.
La Puente (446), La Puente.
Larchmont (614), Los Angeles.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno
Lassen (149) , Susanville.
Laurel (245), Willows.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Lebanon-Pacific (136), San Francisco.
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.

Lemon Grove (736), Lemon Grove,
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
Honolulu, Hawaii.
Lexington (104), El Monte .
Liberal Arts (677), West Los Angeles.
Libertas (466), Bakersfield.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Live Oak (61), Oakland .
Livingston (658), Livingston .
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo.
Los Alamitos (809), Seal Beach.
Los Altos (712), Los Altos.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Los Banos (3I2), Los Banos.
Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach .
Los Gatos (292), Los Gatos.
Loyalty (529), Los Angeles.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lynwood (600), Lynwood.

Mission (169), San Francisco.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego .
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Molino (150), Tehama.
Moneta (405), Gardena.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Monterey (217) , Monterey.
Monterey Park (457), Monterey Park.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach .
Moreno Valley (804), Sunnymead.
Morgan Hill (463), Morgan Hill.
Morning Star (68) , Stockton .
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Mother Colony (750), Anaheim.
Mountain Shade (18), Downieville.
Mountain View (194),
Mountain View.
Mount Baldy (815), Ontario.
Mount Diablo (448), Concord.
Mount Jackson (295) , Guemeville.
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Mount Olive (506) , Los Angeles.
Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mount Shasta (281) , Anderson .
Mt. Davidson (481), San Francisco.
Mt. Wilson (794), Altadena.

Maccabee (823), Monterey Parle.
Madera (280), Madera.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Magnolia Parle (715), Burbank.
Malta (661), Los Angeles.
Manchester (585), Downey.
Manhattan (742), Manhattan Beach.
Marin (191), San Rafael.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Mar Vista (820), Newport Beach .
Maui (472), Maui, Kahului, Hawaii.
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Maya (793), Los Angeles.
McCloud (430), McCloud .
McKinley (347), Richmond .
Melrose (602), Hollywood.
Mendocino (179), Mendocino .
Menlo Park (651), Menlo Park.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Merced (749), Merced.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Meudell (695), Bakersfield.
Military Service (570), San Francisco.
Millbrae (792), Millbrae.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mineral King (720), Visalia.

N
Northern California Research Lodge,
San Francisco.
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood.
North Star (91 ), Fort Jones.
Norwalk-Euclid (315), Norwalk .

Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326), Needles.
Neptune (619), Long Beach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City .
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland.
Normal Heights (632), San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gridley.

0
Oakdale (275) , Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Crescenta.
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Occidental (22), San Francisco .
Ocean Parle (369), Santa Monica.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Old West (813), Newhall.

Olive Branch (269) , Tulare.
Olivet (205), Coming.
Ontario (301), Ontario.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), Orange.
Oriental ( 144), San Francisco.
Orinda (521), Orinda.
Orland (265), Orland.
Orosi (383), Orosi.
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

405

406

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

p
Pacific Grove (331), Pacific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine-Craftsmen (351),
Los Angeles.
Palisades (637) , Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769) , Palmdale.
Palm Desert (826), Palm Desert.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Springs.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto .
Palos Verdes (389), Long Beach.
Paramount (785), South Gate .
Park Boulevard (568), Oakland.
Park-Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Parnassus-Presidio (388),
San Francisco.
Pasadena (272) , Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson.
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, Hawaii .
Peninsula (745), San Mateo .
Penrhyn (258) , Penryn.
Pentalpha (202) , Los Angeles.

Perris (411) , Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma.
Phoenix (178), San Bernardino.
Pinnacle (777) , Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules .
Pittsburg (429), Pittsburg.
Plaza de Los Angeles (814),
Los Angeles.
Plumas (60), Quincy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San Pedro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730) , Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno.
Porterville (303) , Porterville.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), Sacramento .

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach .

R
Reading (254), Redding .
Redlands (300), Redlands .
R . E. Dolley (616), Seal Beach.
Redondo (328) , Redondo Beach.
Redwood City (168), Redwood City.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.
Reedley (304), Reedley.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Rialto (582), Rialto.
Rim of the World (711), Twin Peaks.
Rio Hondo (800), El Monte.

Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Rio Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park .
Riverbank (459), Riverbank.
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780) , Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.
Rolling Hills (781), Lomita.
Roosevelt (500) , San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222) , Roseville .
Russian River (181 ), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Saint Elmo (697), Oakland.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.

Saint John's (725), Concord.
Salinas (204) , Salinas.
San Antonio (694), Bell.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
San Benito (211), Hollister.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino .
San Buenaventura (214) , Ventura.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
San Dieguito (775), Cardiff-by-the-Sea.
San Dimas (428) , San Dimas .
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
San Francisco (166), San Francisco .
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Sanger (316) , Sanger.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
San Joaquin (19), Stockton.
San Jose (10) , San Jose .
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
San Leandro (744), San Leandro.
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
Boulder Creek.
San Marino (685), San Marino.
San Mateo (226) , San Mateo.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
San Pedro (332) , San Pedro.
San Ramon Valley (724) , Danville.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Santa Barbara ( 192), Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz (38) , Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia (302), King City.
Santa Maria (580), Ramona.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Santa Ynez Valley (701 ), Solvang.
Scepter (808), West Sacramento.
Schofield (443) , Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Seafaring (708) , Newport Beach.
Searchlight (567), Long Beach.
Seaside (504), Long Beach.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Selma (277) , Selma.
Semper Virens (552) , Eureka.

Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Service (594) , Long Beach.
Shattuck-Stephens (541) , El Cerrito .
Sierra (788), Oakhurst.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
Signal (543) , Long Beach.
Silverado (782), Napa.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
Silveyville (201) , Dixon.
Simi Valley (806), Simi.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
Smyrna (532) , Ceres.
Snow Mountain (271) , Stonyford.
Sojourner (607), Duarte.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
Sotoyome (123) , Healdsburg.
Southern California (278),
San Gabriel.
Southern California Research Lodge,
Los Angeles .
South Gate (320) , Los Angeles .
Southland (618), Glendale.
South Park (563), Hawthorne.
South Pasadena (367),
South Pasadena.
South San Francisco (212), Daly City.
South West (283), National City.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Starr King (344), San Francisco.
Stockton (498), Stockton.
Suisun (55) , Fairfield.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Sue Garden (530), Fresno.
Sunnyside (577), Hawthorne.
Sunnyvale (511), Sunnyvale.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
S. W. Hackett (574) , San Diego .

T
Table Mountain (124) , Paradise.
Taft-Midway (426), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3) , Sacramento .
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temescal (314), Corona.
Temple (14) , Sonoma.

Travelers (692), Sacramento .
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triad (812), Montebello.
Triangle (548) , Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.

407

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gabilan (803), Salinas.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Tila Pass (797), Los Angeles.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Tustin (828), Tustin.
Two Rivers (731), Bell Gardens .
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

University (394), Torrance.
Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
Vacaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487) , Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Forge (587), Playa de! Rey.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.
Veritas-Jonathan (545),
San Francisco.

Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victoria Palms (810), Riverside.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56), Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Warren G. Harding (579),
Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washington (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles .
Westchester (703), Playa del Rey.
West Covina (758), West Covina.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373),
Los Angeles.
Westminster (787), Huntington Beach.
Westwood (501), Westwood.

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
Yosemite (99), Merced.

Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
United (374), San Francisco.
Unity (368), Glendale.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William B. Ogden (816), Hollywood .
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire-Garfield (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland .
Woodland Hills (811), Canoga Park.
Woodstock (491), Alameda.

Yount (12), Napa.
Yucaipa (726), Yucaipa.
Yucca Valley (802), Yucca Valley

z

409

410

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

IND EX

FOR

411

1974

A

CORR ESPO NDEN CE REPO RT

ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appe ared quart erly in the
"California Freemason," copies of which have
been sent to each Grand Lodge. This program
will be continued.
The "California Freemason" is issued quarterly and each copy carries additional reviews.
Henc e, they do not appe ar in these
Proceedings.

Accounting Records
Grand Secretary's Remarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 62
Acknowledgments by Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Additions and Replacements Reserve, Homes
Audit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 257 , 269
Alphabetical List of Lodges . .... ....... . . . . .. .. . .. .... . .......
....... .. 401
Altenberg Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . 289, 291
Amaranth Fund
Audit . .. ....... . . . .. ....... .. . . .. .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . ..... . .....
291, 292
Report by Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 288
Amendments to By-Laws
Reported by Grand Secretary . . .. . .. . ....... ....... ....... . .....
. .. . 63
Approved by Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 66
Anniversaries of Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Annual Election and Announcement of Appointive Officers . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Annual Returns
Audit ....... . . ....... ..... .. . ..... .. .. ...... .. . ....... ....
.. .. . 249
Details by Lodges . . ... .. .. .... ....... . . . . . ....... . . .. .....
. .. . .. . 352
Membership Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 58
Appendix
General . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 311
Special . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 243
Application Fees Tabulated . ...... . .. . .... . .. . ... . .. . .......
...... . .... 352
Appointments •
For Year 1974 - 1975 . .. .. . .. ... . . . ....... ... . ....... . .......
..... 241
For Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
........
4
Trustees for Masonic Homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 241
Trustees for Memorial Temple ... ... .. . . .. .. . . .. . ... . .. . .. . ..
. .. . .. . 241
Committees and Constitutional Boards . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 312
Appropriations, Supplemental
Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 235
Approved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 239
Auditor's Report .. .. .. . ..... . ....... . . . . . ... ... ... . ... ....
.. . . . . . 252
Atkinson Trust Fund . .. . ..... . .. . .. . ....... . . .. . ... . .. . . ..
.. . 261, 263, 266
Attendance
Listed (Registration and Mileage Payments) ... . .. .... .. . . . .. . .
.. .. .... 324
Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 179
Audits
1974 Returns . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 249
Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 244
Index ....... . . ....... . .. . . ....... .... .. . .. . .. .. . . .. .. ..
.. . ..... 243
Masonic Foundation .. .. . .. . . .. .. ....... .... . ..... . .......
....... . 288
Masonic Homes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 255
Memorial Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 282

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

B

Beques ts-Mas onic Homes . ..... ... .. ....... . . .... ......
...... !03, 115, 304
Biography, Raymond A. Ebbage . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iii
Board of Control
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
Members Listed ...... ...... ...... .. . ...... .... .. ......
...... .. ... 321
Board of Library Commissioners (See Library Commission)
Brigham Scholarship Fund Audit ...... ...... ...... ....
..... 262, 263, 266, 278
Brown Memorial Fund ..... . ....... . ...... ...... . .. .
..... 262, 263, 266, 281
Budge t-Gran d Lodge
Appropriations ...... ...... ...... . . . .... . . .. ..... . ..
.. . .. 235 , 238, 252
Finance Committee Comments ...... ...... ...... ......
...... ...... .. 233
Burt Trust Fund .. . ...... ...... ...... ..... . ..... .. ......
. .. . . 262, 263, 267
By-Laws
Amendments submitted . . . ... . . . .. .. ... .. .... . .......
. .. . ....... . · · 64
Report of Committee ....... . ... . .. . ...... . ... .... ....
.. .. ... .... · · 66

c

California Freemason
Feasability Study- Month ly Publication ... . .... . . ......
. . ....... ..... 205
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 151 , 206, 233
Per Capita ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
...... .. 233, 236
Publication Board, Report of . .... .. ...... ...... ......
...... ..... .. . 150
California Masonic Foundation
Altenberg Fund ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... .
· · · . · · · · · 289, 291
Amaranth Fund .... ..... ....... ... .. . .. . . .. .... . . .....
... · · · · 291 , 292
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance . .... . ....... . ......
... .. ....... . 289
Audit ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
...... ... . 288
Cash Revenues and Expenses ...... ...... .. . . ....... ....
. .. . . · · · · · · · 290
Charitable Programs ...... ...... .... ... ...... ...... .
· · .. · · · · · · · · · · 173
Directors Listed ... . . ...... ... . . .. .... ... ... ...... ..
· .... · · · · · · · · · 323
Financial Comments ...... .... . . . ...... .. . .... .... ....
. .. · · · · · · · · · 172
Report of Directors ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
172
.. ·
Scholarships--Directors' Comments ...... ...... ...... ...... · · · · · · · · 172
.. · · · · · · ·
California Masonic Memorial Temple
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance ..... . .... ...... ......
.... . .. .. .. 283
Audit . ...... ...... ... . .. . ....... . ....... ... . ......
.... ... ..... . 282
Cash Revenues and Expenses ...... ...... .. .. .... . .. . .......
... 148, 284, 286
Grand Treasurer Comments ..... . . .. ....... . ...... ......
... . ...... .... · 53
Occupancy ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ...... ......
... · · . · · · · · · 149
Officers and Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 323
Trustees Appointed and Terms .... .... ...... ...... ......
. .. . .... .. .. 241
Trustees Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 146
Calling Up Proced ures--G avels used listed . . . . . . . . . . . . .
... .... .... .. .. .. .
4
(Names of participants indicated at start of each session)
Cemeteries (Masonic), Report of Committee ...... .. . ...
. ...... .... .. ..... 158
Centennials ...... ...... . . . . ....... . . ...... ...... ......
..... ..... . 47, 48
Certification ...... ...... ...... .. . .. . ..... . . .. ......
. ..... . .... .. . · . · .
v
Changes of Meeting Place
Report by Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

413

Report of Committee on By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Report of Committee on Charters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
Code Commission, Report of ...... ...... ..... . ...... ..
. . ... ..... . . . .. . . 161
Code Revision
Emergent Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167
Report of Committee on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
Columbia Temple, Report of Committee .. . .. . ...... . . ..
... .. ..... ...... .. 181
Commercialism, Report of Committee ...... ...... ......
...... ...... ..... 160
Committee Appointments
For Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
..............
4
For 1974 - 75 ..... . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . . .. . .... . .. .. ......
...... ... . . 312
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Committeemen of Grand Lodge
Grand Secretary's Remarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 62
Concordant Bodies
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Consolidations of Lodges
Report of Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Report of Committee on Charters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 154
Constituent Lodges Listed
Alphabetically . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 I
Numerically ...... .. . .. .. ..... .. .. . . .. .. . . .. . . . .. . .......
. ....... 352
Constitution Observance, Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 168
Constitutional Boards . ....... ... . . .. .. ....... .. . .......
.. .. .... .. .. . .. 321
Contributions
Endowment Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 03
Received from Lodges . ....... .... . ....... . .. .... ....
103, 113, 124, 249
To Reserves ...... ...... ... .. . . . ....... . . . ..... 269,
270, 271, 272, 304
Copyright Notice . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
......... ..... ....
I
Cornerstone Ceremonies, Special Communications . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Correspondence Committee
Report of . .. .... . ....... .. . ....... ... . .. . .... . .. . .....
. ...... . .. 160
Review of Proceedings Other Grand Lodges .... ..... . . . ..
. .... . .... .. . 4!0
Covina Home
Covina Entertainment Reserve Audit .. . .. .. ... . . .. .......
.. .. .. . .. ... 272
Covina Reserve Audit ...... ...... ...... ..... .. . .. . ...
.. .... .. .. . . . 271
Expenses . .. .... . . .. . . ..... . .. . .. . . . ...... .... . ....
. ..... . .. 258, 273
Redevelopment and Reserve . . ..... . . ....... . .. . .......
. . .. ...... ... 270
Report of Administrator ...... ...... . . ..... .. .. . . ... ....
.. ..... .... . J00
Report of Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Residents Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 302
Scholarship List . . ..... . . . ..... . . .. . . .. . ...... ......
...... ...... .. 100
Credentials, Report of Committee . .. . ... ..... .. ...... ......
..... . ....... 179

D

Decoto Home (Union City)
Decoto Entertainment Reserve Audit ... ....... . .. . . . .....
.... . .. . .... 272
Decoto Reserve Audit ...... ...... ...... .. . ...... . ....
.. . .... ... ... 271
Expenses ...... ...... ...... ..... . .. . ...... .. . .. . ......
.... . _ 258, 273

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Redevelopment and Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 270
Report of Administrator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 98
Report of Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 93
Residents Listed ........ ........ ........ ........ ·........ ........ .
293
Dedicati ons-Spec ial Ceremonies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 44
Degree Fees Tabulated . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 59
Degrees Conferred
Tabulated by Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 352
Totals Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 58
DeMolay Liaison Board
Report of ........ ........ ........ ........ .. ........ ........ .....
174
Devotional Service ..... ........ ........ .. ........ .. ...... ... .. .....
5,
6
Dispensations
Miscellaneous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 63
Approved . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 64
Distinguished Guests
Addressed Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 31
Attendance Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 30
Distribution Committee
Appointment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
4
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 144
Divisions and Districts -Ritual
Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 88
Dues
Amendments to By-Laws ........ ........ ........ .. . ...... . ..... 65,
66
Tabulation by Amounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 60
Tabulation by Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 352
Duties of Grand Master
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 34

E

Ebbage, Raymond A., Grand Master
Photograph . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. ii
Biography . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. iii
Appointments for Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.
4
Message . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 33
Special Ceremonies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 44
Special Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 44
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 48
Proclamations
Masonic Homes Endowment Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Public Schools Month . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Youth Activities Week . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
Educational Program
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 33
Elected Officers ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ...
3, 240
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since
Organization, April 18 A.L. 5850 .. ... ........ .. .. ...... . . ... .......
382
Election of Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 240
Endowment and Trust Funds Audit ........ ........ ........ ..... 260,
263, 276

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

415

Endowment Board
Composition of Board ........ ..... ..... ........ ........ ........ ...
321
Report of ........ ........ ........ ........ ... .. ...... . .... .. .. ..
. 103
Endowment Month (See Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund)
Entertainment Reserve Audit ........ .. . .. ........ ....... . . ........ .
272, 308
Eulogies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 11, 15
Extinct Lodges, Including Consolidations . ... . ........ .... . ...... . .. .
..... 372

F

Fees for Affiliation
Amendments to By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 64
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 66
Tabulated by Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 352
Fees for Degrees
Amendments to By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 64
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
66
Tabulated by Amounts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 59
Tabulated by Lodges ........ .. .. ....... ........ ... ..... .... .......
352
Fifty Year Buttons (See Veteran Buttons)
Film-"S uch Gifts to Give" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 94
Finance Committee, Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 232
Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Committee on Recognition ........ .... . ...... .. ..... .. ....
167
List of Recognized Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 394

G

Gavels, Used During Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.....
4
Gavin, George---4i0 Year Award ........ ....... .. ... ... ........ ........
. 148
General Appendix . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 3 11
General Fund Balance
Grand Lodge .. .... ..... ... .... . ... . .. ... .... .... . ... .. ...... . ...
245
Homes ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ..... 256,
257
Grand Chaplain, Devotional Service ..... . ..... ..... ... . . . ........ .....
5,
6
Grand Lecturer
Budget . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 91
Ceremonies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 89
Division Conferences . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 88
Hawaiian Masonry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 90
lnspectoral Corps . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 89
Lodge Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 89
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87
Ritual . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 88
Grand Lodge
Audit ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ........ ..
244
Annual Returns ... . . . .. ... .. .. .. ...... ...... ... ........ .. .. .. . ...
249
Appropriations ........ ........ ........ . .. .. . .. . ...... . .. 235, 238,
252
Assets, Liabilities and Fund Balance . ... . .. . .. .. .. . .. .. .. . .. . ........
245
Cash Revenue and Expenses . .... ........ ........ ........ .. 246. 250.
251
Summary of Receipts, Expenses and Capital Charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 54

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodges Represented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Grand Master (See Ebbage, Raymond A.)
Grand Master Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Grand Master's Message . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Grand Oration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
Grand Secretary
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
Grand Treasurer
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 232
Grand Lodge--Summary of Receipts and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
Grievances, Committee on
Report of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Trial Records Listed ..... ... ........................ . .. . ....... 69, 70

H
Hawaii Visitation
Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Grand Lecturer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 90
History of Grand Lodge-Hardback
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
Homes (See Masonic Homes)
Homes Statistics
Investments ........................... ... ................... 264, 274
Residents Listed ......................... . ................... 293, 302
Statement of Expenses . .. .. . . ... ..... . ........................ 258, 273
Statements of Reserves for Special Purposes .... .... .. . .. 269 , 270, 271, 272

Information and Responsibility
Report of Committee on ............................. .............. 169
Inspectors, List of .. .... ....... . ...... .. .. . .... . ...... . ....... ... ..... 390
Installation of Officers . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 241
Insurance
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
Inter-Jurisdiction Courtesies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Investment Committee, Report of .......... ... .. . ........ .... ........... 155
Investments
Consolidated Portfolio . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 156
Grand Lodge . ........ . ........... . ............... ..... : . . . . . . . . . 254
Masonic Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 292
Masonic Homes ............................. ........ .... .... 264, 274
Memorial Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 287

J
Jurisprudence, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred to committee.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

417

K
Kantz Trust ..... . .......................... . ............. . .. 262, 263, 267
Knights of Columbus, ......... . ........... ..... ............. . ..... 32, 165

L
Legislation Proposed
Section 32 (Manner of Election-Installation)
Amendment Proposed ............................. ........ 202, 221
Legislation ........... ... .. ... ..... .... ....... ....... .... 202, 223
Section 134.2 (Powers Continued-Veteran Buttons)
New Legislation Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 212
Section 150 (Duties of Grand Secretary)
Amendment Proposed .... ... .. ...... .. ....... .. .... .... ....... 211
Ne~ U:gislation Proposed .... ·...... . . ... ........ . . ... .... . .... 211
Legislation ........... .. .. .. .................. .. .. . .......... 212
Section 156 (Grand -Lecturer)
Amendments Proposed ............... ... .......... ... ......... 213
Legislation ......... . . .. ...................... . .............. 214
Section 161 (Duties of Inspectors)
Amendment Proposed .. ....... ... .. . ....... .... .... .. ...... .. . 213
Legislation ............................. ..................... 214
Section 176 (Expenses of Other Officers)
Amendment Proposed ............................. ............ 213
Legislation ............................. ..................... 214
Section 252 (Appointment and Powers of Trustees)
Amendments Proposed ... ........ . . ................. . . .. ..... . 214
Legislation ............................. ..................... 216
Section 324.2 (Report on Construction of)
Report on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231
Section 324.3 (If the Room Used for Stated or Degree Meetings)
New Legislation Proposed . . ....................... . .... .. ..... 218
Legislation ........... . . .. .... .. . . . . . . ................ .. ... .. 219
Section 329 (Decoration of Altar)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219
Withdrawn ............................. ..................... 219
Section 335 (Electioneering)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
Legislation ............................. ..................... 223
Section 342 (By Laws, cont.)
Amendment Proposed ............................. . . .. .. .. 223, 224
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Section 40 I (Control)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 224
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226
Section 483 (Duties of Master)
Amendment Proposed ... ... ..................... . . .. .......... 231
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 l

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Section 516 (Normal Jurisdiction of Lodge)
Amendment Proposed. . . . . . . . 203 . . . . . ( 1973) .... .. ........... 295
Legislation ......... . ..... . . 204 . .. .. ( 1973) ... . ............. 296
Section 517 (Qualification of Residence)
Amendment Proposed ...... . . 203 .... . ( 1973) ........ 292, 294, 295
Legislation .......... .. ..... 204 ..... ( 1973) ... . ..... .... .... 296
Section 518 (Concurrent Jurisdiction)
Repeal Proposed ... .... ... ... 203 ..... ( 1973) ........ 292, 294 , 295
Legislation .. . .... .. ........ 204 ..... ( 1973) .............. ... 296
New Legislation Proposed .. ... 203 ..... ( 1973) .............. ... 294
Legislation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204 . . . . . ( 1973) .. .. ... ..... .. ... 296
Section 5 19 (Lodge in a College Town)
Repeal Proposed ........... . . 203 ..... (1973) ............. 292, 294
Legislation .. ... ..... .. .... . 204 . . ... (1973) ........ .... ... . . 296
Section 520 (Army and Navy)
Repeal Proposed ..... . ....... 203 ..... (1973) .. .. .... .. ... 292, 294
Retention Proposed . . . . . . . . . . 203 . . . . . ( I 97 3) . . . . ............. 294
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204 . . . . . (197 3) . . . . . . .. ......... 296
Section 521 (Grand Lodge May Fix Jurisdiction)
Repeal Proposed ............. 203 .... . (1973) . ..... .. 292, 294, 295
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204. . . . . (1973) ............ . .... 296
Section 522 (Residence Within Ten Miles of Lodge Room)
Repeal Proposed ............. 203 ..... (1973) . ... .... 292, 294, 295
Legislation ............... .. 204 ..... ( 1973) .. ... ............ 296
Section 524 (Waiver of Jurisdiction)
Amendment Proposed ........ 203 ..... (1973) .. . ..... 292, 294, 296
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204 . . . . . (1973) .. . . ........... .. 296
Section 527 (Form of Application for Degrees)
Revision Proposed ......... .. 203 ..... (1973) ............. 292, 295
Legislation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204 ... .. ( 1973) ..... . ........... 296
Revision Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226, 228
Legislation ............... . ............... ............... 228 , 229
Section 529 (Investigating Committee)
Amendment Proposed ........ 203 ..... (1973) ............. 292, 295
Legislation.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204. . . . . ( 1973) .............. ... 296
Section 540. l (Objection Before Ballot By Non-member)
New Legislation Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 230
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231
Section 542 (Objection After Initiation)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231
Section 554 (Ritual)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 219
Withdrawn ............... ............... ............... ..... 219
Section 683 (Conduct in Violation of Masonic or Moral Law)
Amendment Proposed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 222
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
Amend Question No . 15-Application for Degrees
Resolution Presented .. ............... ............... .......... 225
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

419

Appoint- Junior Deacon
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Legislation ............... ............... ............... ..... 221
Champagne, Light Wine and Beer-Masonic Temples
Resolution Presented ..... ........ .. .......... ....... . .. ..... .. 214
Legislation ....... . ............. . ..... ..... .. . ....... .. ..... . 216
Construction of C .M.C. Sec. 324.2
Comments Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 228
Action by Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 229
Delete Question No. 15-Application for Degrees
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 225
Election of Junior Grand Warden
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 217
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 220
Masonic Historical Sites
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 204
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 206
Objection Before Ballot by Non-Member
Resolution Presented ...... .. ..... . ...... .... .......... ........ 230
Legislation ..... .. . ........ ............. ... ..... ..... ... .. .. . 231
Public Schools Week-Defined
Resolution Presented ... ... ......... .... ..... .. . . .. .... . ..... .. 206
Withdrawn . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 207
Retiring the Flag of our Country
Resolution Presented ............... ............... ............ 216
Withdrawn .. .. .... . ........... ... ............... .... ........ 216
Revolving Funds--lncrease Amounts
Resolution Presented ....... ............... ............ . ....... 221
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 223
Ritual-Lodge of Instruction-Annu al Communication
Resolution Presented . ............ . ...... .... .. .... ... ... ...... 209
Legislation ............... ............... ... . . .. .. . .. . ....... 211
Trustees--Califom ia Masonic Foundation
Resolution Presented . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 211
islation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213
Veteran Buttons
Resolution Presented ............... ............... ............ 207
Legislation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 209
Library Commission
·
Report of Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 195
Life Memberships--Ch anges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63
Approval . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 64
Lodge Financing, Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .175
Lodges
Alphabetical List .............. .............. .............. .... 401
Anniversaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
Extinct and Consolidated ... .. ............. ............... ......... 372
No Institutions of ...... ....... ...... . ..... ............... ..... . . . 154
Numerical List . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Los Angeles Masonic Hall (See Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles)

420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

M
Masonic History , Report of Committee
I98
Masonic Homes
Assets, Liabilities, Reserves and Fund Balance . .. ... .... .. .. .. ... .... . 256
Audit .. . ...... . ............ .. . .......... . ... . ...... .. . . .. .. .. .. 255
Contributions and Bequests . .. ... .. .... ... .. ... .. . . .. ... .. . 103, I I5, 304
Covina Operations and Redevelopment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Decoto Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Decoto Redevelopment . ..... . .......... . ....... . ............ ... 93, 270
Expenses ..... .. .. . ...... . ... ... . . .. .. ... .. . .. .. .. ... . .... .. 258, 273
Finance Committee Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
List of Trustees ... . ..... . .... . .... .. ... ... ... . ..... . .... .. ... . 93, 322
Per Capita . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233, 239
Report of Endowment Board : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103
Report of Administrator, Covina .... . .... .... ... .. ........ .. .. .... .. 100
Report of Administrator, Union City (Decoto) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 98
Report of Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Trustees Reappointed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93, 241
Masonic Homes Endowment Board and Fund
Audit . . . .... . ... . .... .. .... . . . .......... . ... . . 256, 260, 26I, 276, 277
Bequests . . . .... . ....... . ........ . .. ... .... . . . . . ... . .. . .... . 103, I 15
Contributions Through Lodges . .. .... . .... . ..... . ..... . .... . ... I03, I24
Members and Officers , I974-75 . . .. ... . ..... . . . . . .. ..... .. . . . ... .... 32I
Memorials .... ... ... . .... ... .. ... ... ... .. .. .. .... ... ... .. ... I03, I I7
Proclamation of Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
Report of Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 03
Service Roll ..... . ..... .. ... .. .... .. ... . ......... .. ..... . .... ... . I07
Masonic Information and Responsibility
Report of Committee ... .... .. .... . .. ..... .. .. .... . ... ... .... .... . . 169
Master Masons' Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 79
Meeting Place
Changes Listed by Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Grand Lodge Action . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Members' Contributions by Lodges . .. ... .. .... .. .. .... .. .. .... .. .. . 103, I24
Membership
Grand Secretary's Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
Tabulated by Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Memorial Service
Devotional . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6
Necrology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I I
Memorial Temple (See California Masonic Memorial Temple)
Meserve Trust Fund ........ .. .... .. ... .. ... .. ..... . ..... 262, 263, 267, 280
Message of Grand Master .. . . . . . .. .. . ..... . ...... . .. .'. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Mileage Payments
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 80
Tabulation of Payments .... . .... ... .. .. . .. .. . .. . . . ... ...... . . ... . . 324

N

Necrology, Report of Committee .. . . . ... ... ..... . ... .. ... ... . .... .... 5,

1I

421

0

Officers of Grand Lodge
Appointtnent of, for 1974-'75 ..... .. ... .. .. . ...... .. ... .. ... ... .... 240
Attendance from other Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Election of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Installed for I 974- '75 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24I
Present at Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Since Organization .. .. .... . ........... . .... . .... .. .... . .... .. ... . 382
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles-Rep ort of Committee on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
Opening of I25th Annual Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Oration by Grand Orator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 82
Outside Relief
Masonic Homes Trustees' Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96

p
Past Grand Masters
Eulogies for, .... . .... . .... . ..... . ... .. .......... .. . I5, 17, 19, 2I, 23
List Since Organization ... .. .... . .... . .... . . . ........ . ...... . . .. ... 382
Present at Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Visitors at Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Past Masters and Wardens-Nec rology Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Pay of Members
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180
Tabulation of Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Per Capita
Payment by Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352
Rate for fiscal year ending June I 975 . .... .. ... . .... .. ... .. .... .. .... 239
Perine Endowment Fund Audit ...... .. .. . . . . ... .... .. .. . . . 262, 263, 266, 278
Permanent Endewment Fund .... ... .. .... . ..... .. .. ..... . . 256, 260, 261 , 276
Peterson Fund .. ... . ..... .. ... .. .... ... .. ... .. . . .... . .. . 262, 263, 267, 280
Poison Pen Letters
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
Policy and General Purposes, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred to
Committee.)
Pooled Income . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94
Property Fund (Homes) . .... . .... . . . .. . . .. .. .. .. . . ..... . .. .. ... . . . 256, 259
Public Schools
Cornerstones· . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Dedications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Proclamation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
Report of Committee . . ........ ... . ... ... ... ...... . .. .. ... .. . . ..... 192
Publicity and Public Relations
Grand Master's Comments .......... . ... .. .... .. .. . . .. ......... . .. 36

R
Receptions and Breakfasts Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges
Recognized Jurisdictions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 394
Report of Committee . . .. . ...... .. ..... . .... . ... . ... . .... .. . . ...... 167

422

423

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Recommendations by Grand Master and Action by Grand Lodge
1. Adequate Standards of Reimbllm!ment of Expenditures .......... 35, 42
2. Creation of 3 New Executive Positions to Supervise
and Control Grand Lodge Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34, 41
3. Establishment and Maintenance of Special Educational
Program to Develop Capacity to Cover Lodge Affairs ... . .. ...... 34, 41
4. Masonic Homes Endowment Board-Increase to 35 Members ..... 35, 41
5. Restructure and Re-evaluation of Laws Relating to
Publicity and Public Relations . . .. . .. . . . .. ............ . . ..... 36, 42
6. Sponsorship and Support of Youth Groups .. . ... . ....... .. . .... 37, 42
Registration and Mileage Payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Reports of Committees
Bicentennial Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 186
Board of Control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137
By-Laws . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
California Freemason Publication Board ...... ... . ...... .. .. .......... 150
California Masonic Foundation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 172
Cemeteries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 158
Charters . . .. . ............. .. . ........ ................ .. . .... . ... 154
Code Commission ............ . ...... .. .................. . . .... . .. 161
Code Revision ............... .......... .................. .... .... 166
Emergent Resolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166
Columbia Masonic Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 181
Commercialism ... . . .. .. . ... . . . . ............ . .... ... ... . ..... .. . . 160
Constitution Observance ............ . . . . . .. ... .. . . . .... . .. .... ... . . 168
Correspondence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 160
Credentials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179
DeMolay Liaison Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 174
Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 144
Endowment .. . ......... . ... . .. .... . .. . .. ........... . . ....... .. .. 103
Feasibility of Freemason as Monthly Publication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
Finance . . . . . ............. .. ... .... .. ....... ............. ... 229, 232
Grand Lodge History Publication . .... . . ..... . ................ . . ..... 191
Grievances . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Insurance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
Investment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 155
Jurisprudence (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Library Commission
.. . .. .. ........ . . . ............. .. ....... . 195
Lodge Financing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Masonic History . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 198
Masonic Homes Endowment Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 03
Masonic Homes Trustees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 93
Masonic Information and Responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 169
Memorial Temple Trustees .. . ... .... . .. .................... ..... . .. 146
Necrology . ................ . . . . . .. . .. . . . .................. . . .. 5, 11
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
125th Anniversary . . ....... . ... . . . ... . . . .. . ......... . .. ... .. ..... . 196
Pay of Members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 180
Policy and General Purposes (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Public Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192

Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 167
Retirement Pension Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
Ritual (Reported separately on items referred to Committee)
Taxation ... ... . ... ... . . . . ..... . .... ... .. . . . ... . . . .. . . .. ....... 97
Youth Activities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Reports of Officers
Grand Chaplai~-Devotional Service . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
5
Grand Lecturer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 87
Grand Master . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Grand Orator . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 182
Grand Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Grand Treasurer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
Representatives of Lodges
Attendance Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 179
Roster of Attendance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 324
Reserves for Special Purposes Homes Audit
Additions and Replacements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257 , 269
Covina Entertainment Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257, 272
Covina Redevelopment .. ................. ... . .. .. .. ............... 270
Covina Reserve ...... .................. . . . . . . . .......... 257, 259, 271
Decato Entertainment Reserve ............ . .. ........ .. . ........ 257, 272
Decato Redevelopment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 270
Decato Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 257, 259, 271
Residents at Homes
Covina . ..... . . ..... . ........ ... ..... . . . .. . ....... ... . . .. . ... ... 302
Union City . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 293
Resolutions
Presented . . .. . . .. . ...... .. .. . . .. .... ... . ... ..... .... ... . . ... 202 , 207
Withdrawn ..... . .... . .... ......... .. . ..... . .. .. .. .. ... .. .. .. 210, 219
Retirement Pension Plan
Report of Committee . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152
Audit Notes . . .. . ..... .... .. ............. . . ....... . . . . .. 247, 265, 286
Ritual, Committee on (Reported separately on items referred to Committee.)
Roll Call . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3

s

Schultz Scholarship Fund . .. ................ ... . . .. .... .. . 262 , 263 , 266, 281
Service Bureau
Blood Bank Activities . . . . .. . . .. ... . .. .. . .. . ......... . .. . ... . .. . ... 144
Cost for Services .... .... . ... ....... ... .. ...... .... .. . .. . . ....... . 142
Income for . . ..... . .... ............... ......... ........ . ......... 140
Operational Expenses ... . .... ........ .... .... ....... ... . .......... 143
Reports By . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140
Taxes ... .. ....... . . ... .. . ................ ..... ... .. ............ 138
Service Roll (Endowment Fund) . ........... . .... ...... . .. ... . .......... 124
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3
Monday Afternoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30
Tuesday Morning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152

424

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Tuesday Afternoon ...... ... ; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 175
Wednesday Morning ......... . ........ ..... ........ .... . . ......... 202
Wednesday Afternoon . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205
Thursday Morning . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 240
Special Appendix .. . . ... . . ........ . . . ................ .. ..... .. .. . .... 243
Special Ceremonies Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Special Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 317
Special Communications Reported . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
Standing Committees ....... . ...... . ...... . .. .. . . . . .... .... .......... . 312
State of The Craft
. Grand Master' s Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
Student Aid Fund Audit ...... . .. . . .. .. . . . .. . . . . ..... .. .. : 262, 263, 267, 280
Supplemental Appropriations
Auditor's Report ........ .. . . ............ . .... . ..... .. . . ...... 252, 253
Finance Committee Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 233
Grand Treasurer's Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53

T
Taxation
Board of Control Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 138
Grand Secretary's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61
Report of Committee on ........................ . . : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197
Telegrams, Sent and Received . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
4
Testamentary Gifts .. ......... ..... ....... ...... ........ .... ...... 103, 115
Title Page . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1
Travel Expense Reimbursement
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
Trial Records
Listed . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69, 70
Committee on Grievances Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 69
Trust Funds Audit .. .......... . .......... . . ... ........... .... 262, 263, 266

u

Unappropriated Reserve Audit ........ ..... .. . .... . . ..... . . . .. .. ...... .. 272
Unfinished Business From 1973
Grand Secretary's Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Election of Junior Grand Warden . . ......... .. . .. .... ........ ..... . .. 202
Masonic Burial Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts . ....... . .. .. 202, 203
Special Trust Fund-Social Purposes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 203
Statewide Jurisdiction ... ...... ..... ... . .. . . ...... ....... ... 203, 204
Unfinished Business For 197 5
Code Revision .......... ..... ........ . . ... . . ...... ...... ........ . 166
Expense Reimbursement . . . . .... .... . . ... . .. . . ..... . .. ..... .... 35, 42
Masonic Burial-E. A. and F. C .. . ... . .. . .... ... ... . ... . ... . 56, 202, 203
History Book . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 191
Universal League of Free Masons
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

425

v

Veteran Buttons
Listing of Recipients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74
Visitations to Other Jurisdictions . .. . . .. ...... . . . .. . ........ . · · · · · · · . . . . . 48

w

Wadleigh Fund Audit .......... .. . . ...... . . . . . .. . ...... .. 262, 263, 266, 278

y
Youth Activities
Grand Master's Comments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
Report of Committee on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 193
Speakers at Grand Lodge . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31

