JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE
OF

F re~ and Accepted Masons
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA

VOL. XXVII
1906 and 1907

PRESS OF

SHANNON - CONMY COMPANY
509 Clay St., San Franc:Dco, Cal.

I . dge of California.
i

of the M. ·. W. ·.Grand Lodge of
tion of Califo ma, do ht -by

• the juri

·mIr

01

r

Jtt •: ., I'll ll
I

ii of the

the

cf the State of California
t thE

of

Grand

e.

retary in the City of San FranCISCo, this first day c f

ber, in the

o'

.of light, Fiv

TboUBand Nine Hundre ancf

·.
MOTLEY H. !<'LIN~
<£rnnb l!1l astrr
1906

Grand Lodge of California.
I, GEORGE JOHNSON, Grand Secretary of the M. '. W. '. Grand Lodge of

Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of
the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Fifty-seventh Annual Comtnunication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on Tuesday, the
ninth day of October, A. J,, 5906, and terminated on Friday the twelfth
day of said month.

1Jn m.e.atimnny Jllllftrrnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and h ave
affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the State of California,
at the office of the Grand Secretary in the City of San Francisco, this first day of November, in the year of Light, Five
Thousand Nine Hundred anti
Six.

J
'. 1 1 JI I .' ; -.

H. :F LINT

· ·anb ~astrr
1906

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

. M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

OF THE

Jurisdiction of _California,
AT ITS

FIFTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,
HELD AT

Calvary Chur-ch, in the City of San Francisco :
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 9th, A D. 1906, A. L. 5906,
AND TERMINATED ON

Friday, October 12th, A D. 1906, A L. 5906.

SAN FRANCISCO:
SHANNON-CONMY PRINTING Co.,

.

1906,

•

509 CLAY STREET.

GRAND OFFICERS
OF T}[E

..

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5906.

M.".W.'.Edward H. Hart ...... Grand Master ............. Berkeley;
R. ·. W. ·.George M. Perine ..... .' .Dep. Grand Master .... San Francisco;
R.".W.'.Reuben H. Lloyd ...... Sen. Grand Warden.". .San Francisco;
R.".W.".Oscar Lawler ....... . . Jun. Grand Warden . .... Los Angeles;
V.' .w: .Edward Coleman .. . .. . G1 and Treasurer .. ... . San Francisco;
V.' .w: .George Johnson ... .... Grand Secretary .... . .. San Francisco;
V.'.W.'.William H. Edwards ... G1and Lecturer . .. ... . San Francisco;
v:. R.".Ernest E. Baker .... . .. . Grand Chaplain ....... . ... .. Oakland;
W.'.Jacob Nieto ........... Grand Orator ·.· . . .. .. San Francisco;
W.'.Harry S. Johnson .......Asst. Grand Secretary. San Francisco;
w .·.Delos W. Smyt_h e ....... Grand Marshal ............. San Jose; '
w. ·.Chauncey C. Bush ...... Grand Bible Bearer . ........ Redding;
W.".Arthur J . Thatcher ..... Grand Sword Bearer ..... .. . .. Ukiah;
W. ·.Samuel Prager ......... Grand Standard Bearer .. Los Angeles;
.Thoma:~ J. Baker ...... Senior Grand Deacon .... Sacran;ento;
W.'.Albert B. Webster ......Ju!1iC1r Grand Deacon ....... Oakland;
W.'.John T . Morrison ...... Senior Grand Steward ... . .. Berkeley;
W.'.Albert L. Reed ......... Junior Grand Steward ....... . Suisun;
W.'.Louis L. Janes ...... .. . Grand Pursuivant . .. ..... Mill Valley;
w. ·.Samuel D. Mayer . ...... Grand Organist . ...... San Francisco;
w.·.George P. Adams ....... Grand Tyler ..•....... Sa~ Francisco.

w:

•

GRAND LODGE
OF

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA.

FIFTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Fifty-seventh Annual Communication at the Calvary
Church, in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday, the 9th
day of October, A. L. 5go6, at IO o'clock a. m.
·

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Upon calling the roll of members there were found present the following;

And the Representatives of two hundred and forty chartered Lodges and Delegates from seven Lodges under dispensation.

187

GRAND OFFICERS.
The M.".w:.Motley H. Flint. ...... .'Grand Master;
" R:.w:.Edward H. Hart. ....... Deputy Grand Master;
" R:.w:.George M~Perine ....... Senior Grand Warden;
" R.".W.".Reuben H. Lloyd ....... Junior Grand Warden;
" v:.w:.Edward Coleman ....... Grand Treasurer;
" v:.w:.Georgc Johnson ........ Grand Secretary;
" v:.w:.wm. H. Edwards ....... Grand Lecturer;
" V.".R.".Jacob Nieto ............. Grand Chaplain;
" W.".Oscar Lawler ............. Grand Orator;
" w:.Harry S. Johnson .......... Assistant Grand Secretary;
" w. '.Charles D. Barnett. ........ Grand Marshal;
" w:.chauncey C. Bush ....... . .. Grand Bible Bearer;
" W.".Albert A. Reed ........... . Grand Sword Bearer;
" w:.samuel Prager ............ Grand Standard Bearer;
" W.".Thomas J. Baker ...... . .... Senior Grand Deacon;
W.".A, W . Davidson ............ Junior Grand Deacon;
" w:.John T. Morrison .. . ... . .. . Junior Grand Steward;
" W.".Jos. R. Garthside ...... . .... Grand Pursuivant;
" w:.samuel D. Mayer ....... . .. Grand Organist;
" w. ·.George P. Adams .......... Grand Tyler.

The Grand Master filled the vacant place by the appointment pro tempore of W·"J. D. Danner as Senior Grand
Steward.
There being a sufficient representation, the Grand Lodge
was opened in Ample Form, with music by the choir and
prayer by the Grand Chaplain. ·
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
following committees :
On Credentials.
Harry S. Johnson,
Joshua D. Tucker,

Carlton A. Lane,
.
Frederick W. Clough,
Arthur J. Wheeler.
On Charters.

Ellsworth F. Richards,
Henry A. Clme,

PAST GRAND OFFICERS.
The M:.W.'.William A. Davies ...... Past Grand Master;
" M:.w:.George C. Perkins ...... Past Grand Master;
" M:.w:.Henry S. Orme . ...... . Past Grand Master;
" M:.w.·.fames B. Sfevens ....... Past Grand Master;
" M.·.w.·.william T. Lucas ....... Past Grand Master;
" M.·.w ..·.Thomas.Flint . ........ . Past Grand Master;
" M.".W.":Fral)k M. Angellotti.. ... Past Grand Master;
" M:.w:.charles L. Patton .. . .. . . Past Grand Master;
" M:.w.·.James A. Foshay ....... Past Grand Master;
" M:.w:.William S. Wells ....... Past Grand Master;
" M:.w:.orrin S. Henderson .... Past Grand Master;
"· :M::.w:.Charles W. Nutting . .... Past Grand Master;
" ·M.".w:.George W. Hunter ..... Past Grand Master;
" R:.w:.John Q. Adams ......... Past Dep. Grand Master;
" R.·.w.·.Jacob H. Neff ........... Past Junior Grand Warden.

William R. Flint,
William G. Thornally, Jr.,
John C. Lane.

On By-Laws of Lodges.
Julian E. Pardee,
William W. Ferguson,

William V. Bryan,
Herbert A. Croghan,
George U: Moyse.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

189

additional Report covering each and every item of this work, which
Report will be read immediately following this Address.
Deaths.

Afternoon Session,
'I'uesday, October 9th, A. L. 5906.
'!'he Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
'!'he Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address to
the Grand Lodge, as follows:Brethren of the Grand"todge:
One year ago, as we gathered together in this beautiful city, the
metropolis of the Pacific Coast, teeming with industry and prosperity, we little thought of the change which would be effected i~ so
short a time.; but we can all give thanks to Him who does all thrngs
well that in our hour of need the Grand Jurisdictions of the world
' forth their relief quickly and generously, and that m
. our
poured
State we had the necessary men of courage, honesty and ability to
handle the relief matters in a most satisfactory manner, but, better
still, they had the tenacity and unity of purpose to determine to
rebuild our demolished and burned sections of the State better and
more substantial than before.
Brethren, you who have not visited the stricken sections of our
State prior to the convening of our Grand Lodge can have no ~oncep­
tion of the bravery of our citizens, when, i=ediately followmg the
disaster and fire of April 18th, last, the men of California, with the
pioneer spirit of '49, determined· that the California: of the future
should be far better, more solid and substantial than before. What
has been accomplished . to date speaks volumes for these men _of courage, and from .my observations I believ~, and I am sure y?u will agree
with me that in a short period of time our metropolis and other
injured ~ities near by will soon be a credit and joy to all Californiap.s.
The relief work incident to the disaster of April 18th last having
been such an important matter, and involving so many different
points, I have deemed it best to submit to the Grand Lodge an

,

Our Grand Jurisdiction has suffered severely during the past year
in the loss of two of our Past Grand Masters: M.:. W.-. William
Johnston, who was Grand Master in 1891, entered into rest November
14, 1905. The Grand Lodge was specially convened at Sacramento,
November 18th, and the last and solemn duties to our dead Brother
were performed by the Grand Lodge, with Past Grand Master Edmund C. Atkinson in charge of the ceremonies.
M.'. W.'. Hiram N. Rucker, who was Grand Master in 1887,
passed to the Great Beyond December 13, 1905. The Grand Lodge
was specially convened at Merced, December 16th, and before the
largest concourse of citizens ever ·gathered in .that city the beautiful
ceremonies of our Order were conducted by R. :. W. '.. Edward H. Hart,
Deputy Grand Master.
Both of these Brethren will be greatly missed at our Grand Lodge,
but their kindly faces, their genial words of greeting and their able
advice on all important questions will live in our memories until time
shall be no more. The very sudden and unfortunate accident which
befell Brother Past Grand Master Rucker and caused his untimely
death was a decided loss to our Widows' and Orphans' Home, over
which institution he was Superintendent, and the able and entirely
satisfactory manner i.n which our Brother performed his duties
makes the loss to our Fraternity doubly hard.
I have taken the liberty to appoint as a Special Memorial Committee on the death. of Past Grand Masters Johnston and Rucker
Brothers Past Grand Masters Edmund C. Atkinson, ~'rank M. Angellotti and James A. Foshay, and recommend that a special hour be set
apart for "the reading of the Report of this Committee.
Owing to the destruction of our entire Grand Lodge records, and,
in fact, all papers connected with the Grand Secretary's office, it is
not possible to give the full list of deaths of the Grand Officers of
other Grand Jurisdictions, except those received subsequent to April
18th last. It is greatly to be regretted that proper tribute and respect
cannot ~e shown in this Address to the honored dead of other Grand
Jurisdictions, but probably that can be corrected next year, when
notifications from our other bodies have been received. We mourn
with our Sister Jurisdictions the loss of the following Brethren:

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Honry H. Matthews, Grand Master of Alabama;
John Humphreys, Senior Grand Warden of Colorado;
George S. Hallmark, Past Grand Master of Florida;
Thomas Emmet Dewey, Past Grand Master of Kansas;
John Guthrie, Past Grand Master of Kansas;
Bradley T. Kimbrough, Past Grand Master of Mississippi;
John W. Finch, Past Grand Master of Michigan;
Charles Inglesby, Grand Secretary of South Carolina;
Thomas Milburne Reed, Grand Secretary of Washington;
Thomas Tweed, Past Grand Master of Manitoba;
'
Richard Thomas Walken, Past Grand Master of the. Grand Lodge
of Canada, in the Province of Ontario.

New Lodges:
Dispensations for the organization of nine new Lodges have been
issued, as follows:
"Veteran" Lodge, Sawtelle, Los Angeles county;
"Jewel" Lodge, San l<'rancisco;
"Richmond " Lodge, San Francisco;
: 'Francis Drake" Lodge, South San Francisco.
"Artesia" Lodge, Artesia, Los Angeles county;
"Mizpah" Lodge, Los Angeles;
"Fillmore" Lodge, Fillmore, Ventura county;
"Huntington Beach" Lodge, Huntington Beach, Orange county;
"Oceanside" Lodge, Oceanside, San Diego county.
"Gardena" Lodge, at Gardena, Los Angeles county, was continued under dispensation by action at the last r\.nnual Communication, thus making at this time ten Lodges working under dispensation.

Condition of Our Jurisdiction.
It is with pleasure that I am able to report to you that, notwithstanding the unfortunate casualties of a · few months since, the
general condition of Masonry within our Jurisdiction is most satisfactory in every respect. The returns for last year show a membership, on July 31, 1905, of 31,561; the returns for this year show a
membership of 33,769, a net gain of 2,208.
Lodges located at points most seriously injured· have undoubtedly
felt the effect of the disaster, and I have in a number of cases
authorized Lodges to return the fees of petitioners where the appli·
cants had presented their petitions for degrees prior to April 18th,
last, and which petitions were to be acted upon at the meeting subsequent to April 18th, and where it further appeared that the petitioners
or applicants required the amount of the fees for the support of
themselves or their families, and were in no financial condition to
lose the eost of the fees or to take the degrees. While I acted without
legal authority in these eases, it was in the interest of charity and
humanity.

Lodges Constituted.
Lodges for which charters were issued at the last Annual Communication were regularly constituted as follows:
"Willits" Lodge, No. 365, by Worshipful Thomas ·J. Richards;
"Las Palmas" Lodge, No. 3661 by Right Worshipful Edward H.
Hart, Deputy Grand Master;
"Oceanic" Lodge, No. 371, by Worspipful Joshua D. Tucker;
"South Pasadena" Lodge, No. 367, "Unity" Lodge, No. 368, and
"Ocean Park" Lodge, No. 369, by the Grand Master in person;
"Amity" Lodge, No. 370, by Right Worshipful Edward H. Hart,
Deputy Grand Master.

191

•

Under the Resolution, adopted at the last Annual Communica·
tion, reading as follows:
"Resolved, That the Grand Master iBBue a Dispensation to 'Veteran' Lodge, located at Sawtelle, Los Angeles county, California, if
upon examination he finds that all the provisions of our Masonic law
have been complied with; that no fee be charged for such Dispensation, and the same be remitted by this Grand Lodge; that when
such Lodge shall have complied with our law and this Grand Lodge
orders a Charter issued to it, that no charge be made for such Charter,
and all fees therefor be remitted,"
'Dispensation was issued to "Veteran" Lodge, at Sawtelle, Los An·
geles county. It is with pleasure that I report that the old soldiers
deeply and sincerely appreciate the action of this Grand Body, and
I find from personal visits that the Lodge is doing a great and noble
work. They have at this time seventy members on the roll, and I
trust that, in accordance with the Resolu1'i.on of the Grand Lodge, a
Charter will be issued, and no charge be made for .the same.
Special Communications.
December 1st, corner-stone, Carnegie Library, Colusa, Grand Master officiating.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

192

Immediately following the disaster of April 18th last I called upon
the Master of each Lodge in the district which suffered on that fateful morning, asking ·for full and ·complete reports of their condition.
I found that in a large number of instances Masonic Temples and
places of meeting had been badly injuted to such an extent that meetings could not be held therein. I issued instructions for the Masters
to make the best possible arrangements under the circumstances, fol·
lowing as closely as possible to our Constitution and General Regulations, and if necessary temporarily change the meeting nights until
such time as the normal conditions would be resumed. It was a matter
that required immediate action; hence I acted promptly in every case
and was naturally compelled in a 'large extent to rely upon the wisdom
and the judgment of the Masters of the various Lodges.

December 2d, corner-stone, Masonic Temple, Berkeley, Calif~~nia,
Grand Master officiating.
· December 7th, dedication Hollenbeck Masonic Temple, Los Ail·
geles, Grand Master officiating.
December 9th, corner-stone Los Nietos Valley Union High S®ool,
Downey, California, Grand Master officiating.
January 20th, coi:ner-stone, Monet& Union High School, Gardena,_·
Los Angeles county, Grand Master officiating.
February 1st, dedication Ocean Park Masonic Temple, Ocean Park,
Grand Master officiating.
February 22d, corner-stone, City Hall, Sonoma, Grand Master offi·

Amendments to By-Laws.

~iating.

April 30th, dedication South Gate Masonic Temple, Los Angeles,
Most Worshipful James A. Foshay, Past Grand Master, officiating.
August 6th, corner-stone Whittier Masonic Temple, Whittier,•Grand
Master officiating.
September 1st, corner-stone, Golden Gate Co=andery Asylum,
San Francisco, Grand Master officiating.
October· 5, corner-stone, High.School Building, Bakersfield, Deputy
Grand Master officiating.
October 8th, corner-stone, Masonic Temple, Santa Rosa, Grand
Master officiating.
Special Dispensations.
puring the year quite a l;irge number of requests. ~ave been .made •
upon me for special dit1pensations to reballot on petitions of reJected
candidates. I presume the major portion of these records were
burned· hence I can only state that no dispensation has been granted
by me 'to reballot on rejected candidates without the fullest investi·
gation and in practically every .case it has been shown that the
rejection was caused by mi."staken identity. I have .kept .a recor~ of
the reballoting on· all rejected candidates for which dispensations
were issued and am pleased to state that in each and every. case the
candidate ~as elected. In several cases I have refused dispensatio:iis
to reballot on rejected candidates for the reason that I. did not belie;e
that the facts as stated justified the issuing or grantmg of such dis·
pensations.

193

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

Amendments to By-Laws have been presented in a number of cases
for approval, and of such amendments which have been approved by
me I presume have been lost with the records of the Grand Secretary's
office, but no amendment has been approved until said amendment
conformed in every respect to the uniform Code of By-Laws. It is
certainly to be regretted that many of our Secretaries are not familiar
with our regulations. It has been necessary for me to return, some·
times two and three times, these proposed amendments for correction.
Charters.
Many Charters were burned or destroyed in April last, and it has
not been possible as yet to renew them. I have therefore authorized
all Lodges which did not have charters at this time to continue to act
and work as if the charters were in their possession. Just as soon as
the Lithographing company can renew our Charters duplicates should
be issued to all the Lodges requiring the same.
Regalia.
I will state for the benefit of the members of the Grand Lodge
that this body owned two sets of regalia; one of which was used for
ceremonies taking place outside of San Francisco and the other being
the new regalia recently purchased for use at our Annual Communications. Both of these magnificent . sets of regalia were consu.med in
the fire of April last, but fortunately the Grand Secretary in his wis·
dom had one thousand dollars insurance on the same and by my direc·
tion he has undertaken to replace one of the sets which the manu·
facturer has promised for use at this Annual Communication.

194

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mruionic Board of Relief of Los Aµgeles.

Brother C. W. Bush, a member of the Fraternity residing in Los
Angeles, California, died some eighteen months since, leaving a portion of his estate to the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles.
Owing to the peculiar laws of this State, it was thought at one time
that the Board of Relief of Los Angeles would not be able to secure
this property, but by the active and energetic efforts of Brother
Samuel Prager, President of the Board, and Brother August Wackerbarth executor of the estate, said Masonic Board of Relief, to thorough!~ protect itself and to protect the interests of the ~'raternity,
duly incorporated under the laws of the State of California, and on
August 1st came into possession of the property, consisting of a
two-story brick building at the corner of Los Angeles and Market
streets, in Los Angeles City, of the appraised value of $33,000.00;
also two unimproved pieces of property in Los Angeles City of the
app;aised value of $12,196.99, making the total appraised value of
the estate turned over to the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles
$45,196.99.
The present income of this property is two hundred and. twenty
dollars per month. Unfortunately, a few' days after the Board came
into possession of the property a fire occurred in the building at Los
Angeles and Market streets, causing a damage of several hundred
dollars. This, however, was covered by insurance, which will probably
fully protect the Board. In order that the Fraternity will be protected in years to come, it will be necessary for this Board to place
the property on an income basis, which will undoubte'.11y necessitate
the selling of the unimproved property and the ma.king of further
improvements in the building ~t Los Angel~s and Market streets~ ~he
balance to be invested in other income-bea.nng proper~y or secunties.
Consequently, this Grand Body will probably be called upon to make
its usual contribution to the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles
for the coming year, and after that, when their property is placed
upon an ineome-producing basis, or within. o'ne year, the n?cessary
contribution to said Masonic Board of Rehef can be matenally reduced.
Masonic Employment Bureau of Los Angeles.
After a connection of nearly ten years with the Masonic Board of
Relief of Los Angeles, and a thorough study of the situation, I felt
that as California is the Mecca of thousands of people from the
Eas{ who visit our Golden State by reason of its mild climate or in
sear;h of health, many of . our Brethren from the Eastern Jurisdic-

...

195

tions arrive here ~thout funds, and frequently with families entirely
dependent, but with the hope of securing employment; and in hundreds of cases worthy Brethren have visited this State and positively
refused to accept financial assistance, and, in fact, declined charity.
All they desired was an opportunity to secure honest employment.
Believ.ing that our Fraternity could set a good example in this
way, I prevailed upon the Scottish Rite Bodies, Chapters and Command~ry of L~s Angeles to make monthly donations for one year to
ope~ a Masonic Employment Bureau. This Bureau was opened for
business November 15, 1905. A regular office is maintained in the
Masonic Temple in Los Angeles, which is open from 9 a. m. to 12,
noon, and is in charge of a competent Secretary, whose duty it is to
secure written applications from worthy Masons and their dependents
desiring employment, and then each afternoon to visit all employers
and endeavor to place our deserving Brethren in positions. The
results have been more than satisfactory, and I am pleased to state
that the Masonic Employment Bureau of Los Angeles, during the ten
months of its operation, has made a most magnificent showing as the
following Report from the Secretary of said Bureau will sho~:
Supported by and under supervision of
Scottish Rite Bodies;
George H. Aydelotte,
Los Angeles Commandery, No. 9, K. T.;
Secretary.
Los Angeles Chapter, No. 33, R. A. M.;
Signet Chapter, No. 57, R. A. M. ;
Masonic Board of Relief.
Masonic Employment Bureau
Office, Masonic Temple
Hill Street, between Fourth and Fifth
Los Angeles, Cal., September 15, 1906.
Motley Hewes Flint,
Most Worshipful Grand Master of Masons of California
and Trustee of Los Angeles Masonic Employment Bureau,
Los Angeles, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: It is with much gratification that I submit
to you the Report of the first Mqonic Employment Bureau of California, and I believe the showing made for the :first ten months of
the Los Angeles Masonic Employment Bureau will demonstrate that
Charity, the foundation.of all fraternal orders, has been fully exemplified by the Masons of this city in the way they have assisted your
Secretary to place our unemployed Craftsmen in positions whereby
they can support themselves and families, and thereby be indepen-

196

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

dent of that financial charity which otherwise in many cases they
would have been compelled to ask.
Since the opening of the Los Angeles Masonic Employment Bureau
November 15, 1905, to the present date, there have been five hundred
and eighty-eight applications filed, representing the following Jurisdictions: Arkansas, 4; Arizona, 9; Alabama, 2; British Columbia, 4;
Colorado, 17; California, 103; Connecticut, 11; Canada, 12; Delaware,
1; District of Columbia, 3; England, 8; Florida, 2; France, 1; Georgia,
2; Hawai_ian Islands, 4; Indiana, 19; Indian Territory, 1; Illinois,
55; Iowa, 22; Idaho, 2; Ireland, 4; India, 1; Japan, 1; Kansas, 28;
Kentucky, 6; Louisiana, 3; Lower California, 1; Maine, 6; Mississippi,
1; Massachusetts, 17; Maryland, 4; Missouri, 17; Michigan, 21;
Mo!ltana, 2; Minnesota, 5; Mexico, 1; New Hampshire, 5; New York,
48; New Jersey, 5; Nebraska, 8; Nevada, 1; North Dakota, 1; New
South Wales, 3; Ohio,. 35; Oklahoma, 3; Oregon, 1; Pennsylvania, 16;
Philippine Islands, 1; Prussia, 1; Peru, S. A., 1; Rhode Island, 5;
South Dakota, 5; Scotland, 6; Texas, 5; Tennessee, 5 ; Turkey, 2;
Utah, 4; Virginia, 2; Vermont, 3; Washington, 8; Wisconsin, 8; West
Virginia, 3; Wyoming, 3-from which three hundred and ninety-three
(393) positions have been filled, eithel' temporarily or permanently,
from the following Jurisdictions: Alabama, 1; Arkansas, 2; Arizona,
9; British Columbia, 4; Colorado, 11; California, 65; Connecticut, 14;
Canada, 4; Delaware, 1; District of Columbia, 1; England, 5; Ji)'ance,
1; Georgia, 3; Hawaiian Islands, 3; Indiana, 11; Indian Territory, 1;
Illinois, 28; Iowa, 9; Idaho, 1; Ireland, 4; Kansas, 19; Kentucky, 4;
Maine, 4; Massachusetts, 8; Maryland, 3; Missouri, 3; Michigan, 16;
Minnesota, 3; Mexico, 2; New Hampshire, 3; New York, 45; New
Jersey, 6; Nebraska, 8; New South Wales, 2; Ohio, 15; Oregon, 1;
'Pennsylvania, 17; Rhode Island, 6; · South Dakota, 2; Scotland, 5;
Texas, 5; Tennessee, 4; Turkey, 2; Utah, 5; Virginia, 2; Vermont, 1;
Wisconsin, 6; West Virginia, 1 ; Wyoming, 1.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

197

place
some other unemployed Brother for thi"s B ureau. Th ere
b
have
een seventy-one (71) lady applicants, of which twenty-nine
(29) .
have secured employment.
There ar~ now on file forty-one live applications, and mostly from
men past ~id'?e age, and it seems too bad, but nevertheless it is a
fact, that it is almost impossible to secure positions for what are
~now~ a~ old men, although many of these are bright, capable men
m their hne of ~ork.· Hardly a day but t hat some one finds employment through this Bureau's assistance, and it is with the greatest
pleasure I note the extreme courtesy always shown me whe
ki
·
n ma ng
Person al sol"ici•tation
for the unemployed, and seldom have I been
turned away•when the1·e was the least opportunity to place one of the
Craft o~ _the pay roll, and but for these courtesies could any Secretary
accomplish but little.
Considering how this city has J:>een flooded wi"th
1
th
h h
.
unemp oyed
roug t e misfortune of the San Francisco disaster, an·d the demands made on the employer from every source for the employment.
of s~me, as well as the many coming from the East I believe the
showmg made herein. will reflect due credit on th; Los Angeles
Masons and the Masonic Bodies under whose support and control it is.
"We live for those who love us,
Whose hearts are kind and true;
For the Heaven that smiles above us,
And awaits our spirits, too.
For all human ties that bind us,
l!'or all tasks our God assigneq us,
For the bright hopes yet to find us,
And the good that we can do."
Respectfully submitted by yours truly and fraternally,

A number of applicants have had more than one temporary position, and many of the Craft making application with this Bureau
never again reported or notified of any change of address, and either
foulld positions themselves or left the city, and cannot be found
when wanted; otherwise, at lea1t a ·h undred or more places would
be recorded as having been filled, as I havf,l notifi;ed more than that
number to report for work, and find they had either left the city,
moved or were working, and I make no rec<?rd of Brethren securing
employment other than through this Bureau. At the same time ~t is
with pleasure that I note the fact that many wh9 have secured employment through this Bureau have been ever zealous in tryinjl' to

(Signed:)

GEO. H. AYLEDOTTE,
Secretary.

Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
At our last Annual Communication R.:. W.:. Reuben H. Lloyd
p~esented an ~ble and exhaustive Report on the erection of a mag-

nificent M~somc Temple on the site at Post and Montgomery st reets,
in this city; this building to be erected as soon as the leases on the
property expired, said leases running for a period of four years
from June, 1905.
2

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GR.AND LODGE OF 0.ALIFORNIA.

By Resolution of the Grand Lodge the matter was re-referred to
the Committee and incoming Grand Master. Of course you fully
realize that the fire of April 18th consumed our Masonic Temple;
and, while in San Francisco engaged in relief work, I looked into the
situation as carefully as possible, and deemed it best to call into
consultation as many of the Past Grand Masters and elective officers
of this Body as could be secured to talk over the situation and
protect the Grand Lodge in every way.

5,881 shares Masonic Temple stock at $30
7 bonds, Blue Lakes Water C
'
· · · · · · · • · · · · · · · .$176,430.00
Cash in hands of Treasurer o. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
7,000.00
. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58,247.00
$241,677.00
Past Grand Master Hunter i h.
lowing list, showing how the 'st:ck i~nAt::ual Add.ress, gave the foland Montgomery streets th· "t
Masonic Temple at Post
• is c1 y, was held:
·
Grand Lodge l!'. and A M
Grand Chapt;r R. A M. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •••••••• 5 881
'
'
Grand Commandery K. T
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .... 1,700
California Council,
and
;,f · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... 1,403
California .Chapter, R. A. M
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . 75
S. l!'. Chapter R. A M .
. .............. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ..... 1,571
California Lodge No ~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . 502
Parfaite Union Lodge. No~·~
2,801
Occidental Lodge No' 22
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. ·... 80
Golden Gate Lod~e, No. ~~::::: · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · • ..... 1,262
Mt. Moriah Lodge No. 44
··· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·...... 300
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . 990
Oriental Lodge, No. 144::::::: · · · · · · · · · · > • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ••• 30
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·..•• 324
Doric Lodge No. 216
· · · · · · · · ' · · · · ·' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •. . . . . 300
California C~mmande~;.
·~
194
Y. B. Lodge of Perfection· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • ·. . 940
Grand Consi~tory
· · · · · · · · ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . 50
California Chapter . ~· ·~· ·;,, · · · · · · · · · · · · ·" • · · · · · · · · .. · · · · ·.... 20
Private individual~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · ·'' · · · · · · · • · · · · · ·... 100
...................... ' .................. 6,477

The following Brethren were present at the meeting called by
me May 19th last: E. H. Hart, Deputy Grand Master; George M.
Perine, Senior Grand Warden; R. H. Lloyd, Junior Grand Warden;
E. Coleman, Grand Treasurer; George Johnson, Granll Secretary;
F. M. Angellotti, E. C. Atkinson, C. L. Patton, Thomas Flint, 0. S.
Henderson, J. B. Stevens, Past Grand Masters; J. H. Neff, Past
Junior Grand Warden; J. W. Anderson, Past Grand Lecturer; W.
Frank Pierce, B. P. Flint, Henry L. Davis, F. W. Van Sicklen and J.
Tonningsen; and, after careful, thorough and exhaustive discussion,
it was decided by more than a majority present that it was for the
best interest of the Grand Lodge that the property at Post and Montgomery streets of this city be sold at a price not less than seven
hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

. ·····

R.

S. ·

7·· ·· ·· · ··· · · · · ·· ··· ·· · · ·· ·•· ·· · ..

Within the past sixty days Brother Reuben H. Lloyd secured a
buyer for this property at the figure of seven hundred and fifty thou•
sand dollars, and on behalf of the Grand Lodge I signed the necessary
papers to dispose of the Grand Lodge stock of 5,881 shares, out of a
total of 25,000 shares, which action has been concurred in by everybody holding stock in the corporation.

K. ··'· ········' ·' ···············...

There can be no question but that lor many reasons it would have
been a splendid and magnificent monument to Masonry to erect a
first-class steel-frame building on the old site; but conditions after
the :fire ch.anged the situation very materially in San Francisco, and
it is my judgment that the action in selling the property at the price
given was a decided advantage to the Fraternity. The Committee in
charge, representing the stockholden of this corporatio.n, have been
.requested by me to hold the mo,ney intact as long as .poss.i ble, or until
after this Gr.and Body should meet, .in order that ~mmediate action
could be taken W~!Jr!Jby a 'l'emple,. a credit to Maso~ry and to this
Grand Body, shoul~ be ~rected.
In my judgment, it is of vifal importance· that our funds should
be invested at an early date, and I submit herewith the Grand Lodge

199

assets as reported to me as b .
Grand Secretary:
emg on hand September 1, 1906, by the

Recapitulation.
Stock held by Masonic bodies
Stock held by private individu~~~' ' • ' ' ' • ' ' ' · ' · ' · • • · · · • • • • · ..• 18,523
......... ' .. ' ............... 6,477

,

It . h
•
25,000
is t erefore essentially necess
that .
.
ary .
if a Masonic Temple is
to be erected in this cif~ th t
L
..,
a prompt action be taken b th· G
odge for the reason that a distribution ·o f th f d f y is ranu
the site will soon be mad
e un s rom the sale of
l'.lndoubtedly seek .
t e and the Masonic bodies holding stock will
mves ment for their funds.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

201

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

200

good
our Fraternity that a roster
.
the offiofcers
of memb ere b e . published with
•
of each Lodge
ear1y m January of each year.

For your information, I would state that the :Masonic Temple was
insured for $110,000, of which something over $84,000 has been collected, and a dividend of $3 per share ($75,000) has been paid to the

Decisions.

stockholders.

As the membership of this Grand J . di .
of the Grand Master necessaril .
un~ chon increases the work
't ·
.
Y mcreases 1n propo ti
i is a serious question as t th
r on; consequently
can devote to the correspo ~ e amount of time the Grand Master
cision, which time mig" t bn ence and question~ brought up for den
e saved had the M t
o owed the plain rules and· · t
.
as ers and Secretaries
f 11
tion and in Anderson 's M inls ructions laid down by our Constituanua.

Printing List of Members.
At our last Annual Communication a Special Conimittee on the
publication of the proceedings of this Grand Body recommended that
the rosters of Lodges formerly published in the proceedings of this
Grand Body be so modified that only the name, number and address
of the Lodge,· name and address of the Master, name and address of
the Secretary, and the time of the stated meeting be published. The
Committee on Finance in their Report, which was adopted by the

I find from experience that man
.
hav:e been readily determined b
i-tquestions are asked which could
study of the books which eh lyd ab i. tle thought or perhaps a careful
ou
e in every Lodg
ere ave been more
e room. However
. h
t•
'
th
0 r 1ess important q
beet to present to you for d t
.
.
ues ions which I deemed
. t
e ermmation as to h th th
porn s which should be :finall d .d
w e er
ey involved
.
y ec1 ed by t his Gra d B d
.
may b e cnticised for making m
n
° Y· Perhaps I
1
on reviewing my corresponde ytehxpt anations too lengthy, but I :find
·
nee
a a length
·
mg all points is better und~rstood than
y ans.w_er fully explainmy questions and my decision
. a short dec1s1on; hence all of
B are given herewith in detail

Grand Lodge, recommended as follows:
''Omit therefrom the rosters of the various Lodges, and insert in
lieu thereof tabulated statement showing the number and name of each
Lodge, together with the names of the Master and Secretary thereof
and the date and place of meeting.''
In my judgment, after careful and mature deliberation and after
investigation of the work of the various Relief Boards incident to the
disaster of April 18th last, it is a serious mistake not to publish the
names of the members of our Grand Jurisdiction in good standing. I
do not maintain that it is necessary that the same should be in the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge, but it is my idea that at the annual
meetings of the various Lodges of this Jurisdiction held during December of each year there is a general overhauling of the records and
delinquent members are suspended; hence, on January let of each year
practically all of the Lodges of this J .u riediction have accurate and
complete rolls of their members, a~d as the election takes place in all
Lodges during December it is my judgment that it is wise and expedient to publish early in January a complete roster of each and every
L!)dge of this Grand Jurisdiction showing newly elected and appointive officers and members in good standing, and have the same properly
distributed to each constituent Lodge of this Grand Jurisdiction.

Written complaint having been made
.
of "Hermann" Lodge No 127 th
to me by three Past Masters
f
'd
'
·
• at one Brother M s
o sa1 Lodge, forwarded a 1 tt
· ., a member
''Hermann'' Lodge, requeetinge a e~. u~~er date of May 1, 1905, to
held on the same day sa'd dim't
im1 ' and at the stated meeting
' 1
i was grant dt0 h'
'
'd .
e
im by resolution of the
Lodge, his dues having bee
b th
·
n pai m full at that t•
T
ro er, m a communication d t d J
ime.
he same
for the months of May J
a e
une BO, 1905, forwarded his dues
, une and July and r
t d
. .eques e t'o be placed in
good standing in ••Hermann,, Lod e'
hasty on his part and that h d . g ' adv1smg that his action was
e esired to be reinstat d .
.
e m said Lodge
aft er a membership of twentY-three years.

During our relief work of last April hundreds of appliiiations were
made by Masons of this jurisdiction and we had no data to work
upon e:J:c.ept the proceedings of 1904, the last published that gave the
list of members, and it was a real neceesit:y that a later and more
correct list of members be secured. I am e~re that any member of
this Grand Body who was in active participation in the relief work
will coincide .with my views and agree that it is essential for the

The three Past Masters before refe
procedure, claiming it was
t
rred to made objections to this
Lodge, but no action was ta~e: ra~ :~ the regulations of the Grand
time, referred to me in a com an.
~ matter was, in due course of
mumcation dated Sept ember 20, 1905.

At the stat.ed meeting of said Lod
munication was read and
t•
~e, h eld July 3,. 1905,
said com1
'
• on mo ion it was u
·
grant the pr;i.yer of Brother S ., t a k e b' ack his
. dimit
~ammoue
y
resolved
and
d . to
a member of said ••Hermann 1 , L 0 d ge m
. good standing. regar him as

.,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

203

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

202

diction
. this
. Jurisdiction he carries with
him the and
titlejoins
and another
. il Lod ge m
prrv: eges of a Past Master.

After carefully studying the facts in the case, I deemed it necessary
to advise the Master and members of "Hermann" Lodge that their
action in the case of Brother M. S. was irregular and that said
Brother could not be considered a member of said Lodge, for the reason that a similar case had been fully decided by the Grand Lodge
at the Session of 1864, set forth in Section 91 of Anderson's Manual,

"Eucalyptus" Lodge, No. 243, submitted the following question.
"Your favor of January 12th, in
. answer
,
.
to my q
t'
ary 11.th, referring to the ques t'ion of wine and thues ion of Janu1.
banquet is received
d
t
o er iquors at a
M asomc
R
.
'
an con ents noted
. egulation fifty-seven and Section 802
. '
out by you, do not exactly cover the oint A~erson s Manual, pointed
etc., cannot be pa.id .for by L d
e understand that wine,
to ge unds, also that it is contrary to
Masonic teaching and us
age o serve same at M
·
asonic halls. We cannot h
b
asomc banquets in
M
is no place for it We
tave a anquet in the hall because there
·
mus go to th di ·
e nmg-room of some of the
hotels in town. Question· C
wi
t
M
h~d in .the dining-room of· oneanofweourse.rve
h
ne a a
asonic banquet
otels in town
b·
to S ection 802 and Regulation 5 7'
' su Ject however

reading as follows:
''When a member of a Lodge has paid his dues, and at a stated
meeting announces his intention to withdraw, his membership ceases,
and he can become a member again of that Lodge only by petition
and ballot, as in the case of any other non-affiliated Mason. It is not
competent for the Lodge by vote to reinstate him.''

l ·

••

"Union" Lodge, No. 58, of Sacramento submitted the following
questions:
" ·F irst-A Past Master of a Lodge in a foreign Jurisdiction
(Iowa) affiliates with a Lodge in California. Does he carry the title
of Past Master into the Lodge with which he affiliates f''

If the candid ate pays .for a banquet held in one of
the "Question:
hotel dining-rooms
can we serve wme at th
'f
banquet on the occasion of install t'
e same i we have a
by the Master-elect or by a subscr'a ti.on ~an we have wine if paid for
if held in a hotel 1 I thiitk
rip ion aken up among the members,
the ease.''
a ru mg on the above question will settle

In answering this question I advised that, in my judgment, a Past
Master of a Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, under any Jurisdiction recognized by our Jurisdiction, is a Past Master for life and
carries with him that title and recognition at all times. That he
should be carried on the rolls as a Past Master.

In answer to which I advised that
eral Regulations or de . .
there was nothing in the Gencisions approved b th
prevented. The question as to wh th 't !
e Grand Lodge which
teh er i is advisable for a Lodge to
have wine at a banquet .
·
is one
at the Lodg h
·
absence of written law prohibitin .
e as. a right, in the
"Stanislaus" Lodge N 206 g its u~e, to determine for itself.
for decision:
'
o.
' submitted the following questions

''Second-A Past Master of a Lodge in the Jurisdiction of California dimits from the Lodge in which he presided and joins another
Lodge in the same Jurisdiction. Does he carry the title of Past ·
Master into the Lodge with which he affiliates' In either ease would
he be entitled to a vote in the Grand Lodge as a Past Master'"

"1. Stanislaus Lodge rents a hall
.
our Lodge receipts (due )
d
' paying the rent of course from
eha.rmng th
s , an sub-lets to the local Order of 0 E s•
.,.
em a monthly rental. The 0 E
.
· · .,
banquets which have be
.d f
· · S. has furnished several
the Banquet Fund
h'enh pa1
o~ by subscription and warrants on
' w ic , according to Se t'
915
Manual, consists of
per
t f
. c ion
of Anderson's
een o the meome of th L d
5
anquet
Fund
is
exhausted
and
it
is
s
e
o ge. The
B
quet by remitting the rent of the 0 Eou~h~ to pay fo.r the last banmonths to balance the account Ca .th.' b. dor a sufficient number of
rent the
·
·
n is e one7 I contend that the
Lodge' ~f p:i1~ merely dues returned, and as such is 'income of the
c we could not use more than 5 per cent.''

In answering this question I called the attention of "Union"
Lodge to the concluding portion of Section 1, Article I, paragraph I,
of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, reading as follows:
''Together with all Past Grand Officers and Past Masters of this
Jurisdiction and Masters and Wardens of the several chartered and
duly constituted Lodges or the Representatives thereof duly elected.''
Advising that said extract is the concluding portion of the paragraph
showing of whom the Grand Lodge of California is composed, and that
any Past Master of this Jurisdiction is a member of the Grand Lodge,
and in my judgment, that if he dimitted from a Lodge in this Juris-

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

205

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

204

. "J s an l':ntcred Apprentice who has been
titled to the return of th f
. refused advancement end
e ee accompanying h'
.
is application for the
egrees, or any part thereof7

In answering said question, I called the attention of ''Stanislaus'•·
Lodge to Section 57 of the General Regulations of the Grand Lodge, ..

"Anewer: The fee should be returne
by the Lodge for the Ent d A
. d, less the amount charged
Which t
.
ere
pprentice degree."
0 my mmd, answered the
'
uest"
that the entered Apprentice is t"ll q ~on propouIIDed, and that was
be carried on the- Rolls as s hs inlan ntered Apprentice and should
·
uc , u ess he has
·t
" req · commi
m the future commits som' e ac t w h ich
th ted some act ' or
erred against him in th
uires
at charges be pref
L
e regu1ar manner Th
odge showing that the fee shoul
.
e approval of the Grand
charged by the Lodge . for th E d be returned, less the amount
clearly that the applicant
t"e
n~ered Apprentice degrees shows
con mues m the Lod
.
prentice, even if denied d
ge as an Entered Apa vanceme'Ilt.

reading as follows:
Sec. 57. The Subordinate Lodges of this Jurisdiction are hereby
authorized to expend, ;n each :Masonic year, a sum not exceeding five
per cent of their total revenue for the preceding :Masonic year, for
the purposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal inter·
course; provided, no expenditures whatever shall be made for spiritous,
malt or fermented liquors."
And also instructed them to note that the wording of the regulation .
is ''total revenue for the preceding :Masonic year,'' consequently the
rental derived from the local Order of the Eastern Star was in that ,
case part of the revenue of their Lodge, and said funds could not be

e, N o. 324, propounded the foll ·
.
' ' Corona' ' Lodg
"Will
.
owing question:
you kmdly define the osit"
the circumstance below stated f p , ion of an affiliating Brother in

diverted for the purpose of refreshments.
"2. For the purpose of meeting t~e .expenses of banquets the following amendment has been introduced to our By-L.a ws : Art. IX of
the By-Laws of this Lodge shall be amended by . the addition of a
new section numbered Sec. 5, and which shall read as follows: 'Sec.
5.-Each member of this Lodge shall pay to the Secretary of the Lodge
25 cents per month, payable quarterly in a<\vance, which shall consti·
tute a special Banquet Fund for the use of this Lodge.' Will the fund
thus raised be available for banquet purposes, or will Sec. 915 of
Anderson's :Masonic :Manual operate in such a way as to permit the
use of only 5 per cent of the same to be used for banquet purposesf"

"He appries f or membership
d ·
·
from his old Lodge. He then a a~ is elected before withdrawing
Lodge a dimit which he fil
. :pl~es for and receives from his old
new Lodge Does h.
e~ wit. hlB application for affiliation in the
.
is mem"ersh1p in the 1 tt L
election to membership th erem
. or from tha dert odge .date from his
Under some conditions th . t' .
e a e of filmg his dimitf
t
e m er1m may amount t 0
a month, or even
wo. Of which Lodge is h
second Lodge collect fl.
ef a member during that time 7 Should the
.
ues rom the date of h"
1 t"
filmg of his dimitf"
18 e ec lOn or from the

In answering said ciuestion I advised that the Grand Lodge has
adopted a uniform Code of By-Laws and the same could not be
amended by a new section such as suggested, for the reason that the
same would simply increase their dues and the fund must be a part
of the revenues of said Lodge, and such action would be in violation

In this cas.e, I held that under
.
Constitution, reading :i.s follows: Section 8, Article I, Part V, of the
''A. member of a Lodge, who lS
. m
. good st di
are paid, who desires to affil' t
"th
an ng and whose dues
d
ia e w1
another L d
an receive from the Secretary of th L
o ge, may apply for
ber, a duly attested certificate of h~s odge. of ';hich he is a mempresenting such a certificate with his st.a~dmg m the Lodge. By
for affiliation with another Lod
.
petition, a member may appl"
Art. ill, Part ill If
h ge _m the manner prescribed in Sec. 2,
Lodge he can beco~e a ~:~b~ppthhcantf be elected to affiliate with a
ereo only by filin
'th .
t
.
ary, at a stated meeting th
t'fi '
'
g wi its SecreLodge of which he was la' t e cer ~bcate of his withdrawal from the
s a mem er."

of General Regulation No. 57 above quoted.
"South Pasadena" Lodge, No. 367, submitted the following question for a decision:
''An Entered Apprentice is denied advancement on recommendation of Committee, unanimously sustained by vote of the Lodge'' What is his present standingf Is he a regular Entered Appren·
tice, or does this action act as expulsion from the Lodge!''
In this connection I advised that the matter had been taken up
in the Grand Lodge Session of 1888 in the following way:

The Brother may present a certificate of m
.
.
of membership as shown i A d
embership, which certificate
.
.
n n erson 's Manual is as follows:
'I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

206

certificate of Membership.
" ............... Lodge No ... ·····• }'. and A. M.
h
f
Lodge No ..... ·:
"To the Master, Wardens and Bret ren o . . . . . . . . . .
.
a member in
"This is to certify that Brother .......... ·.... : ' f
D"mit
.
. Lod e having made application or a i
'
good standing of this
g '. d th t said brother has petitioned
·
h 'ng been receive
a
and notice avi
.
D' 't will be granted, upon the
your Lodge for affiliation therehin,lla imsimmate said affiliation. Of
. .
th t sa· d Brother s a con u
condition
a
i
.
. L d
t'mely notice· and in the event
.
.
will give this o ge i
'
which action you
.
ffil" t" n this certificate of member·
of failure to consummate such a ia io '
.
shi is to be returned to this Lodge.
~'Given under my hand and the seal of the Lodge at ............ .
A L. 59 ... .
.
this ..... ······ .day 0 f • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ., •
[Seal]

,, ... ·······················
"Secretary."

•hi on such certificate, but he does
And may be elected to members p Lod e until a dimit is granted;
not actually become a member o~ the
gen the issuance of the cer·
and that if there is ~ lapse ofh!~m:h:e!7~t should be issued, which
tificate of membership and w
t b . debted to the Lodge for
e the Brother o e in
lapse of time wi11 cau.3
h'o.h he is dimiting the amount
t
to the Lodge from w i
dues, he mus pay .
. t the issuing of the dimit.
he is indebted to said Lodge pnor o
b
f "Palo Alto" Lodge,
.
de to me by a mem er o
f
Complaint was ma
d har es against a member o
No. 346, that on :March 1st he pre:~;e cm. ~he first stated meeting
that Lodge. On :March 31st, at .
P· d t~e result of the trial, the
following the trial, the :Master ~nnounce
.
f
d to be a reprimand.
·
penalty being oun
.
t alleges that he personally
. 30th t 4·30 p m comp1ainan
t'
On April
1 a
·
·... , f
al the :Master, however, no igave the Master .writt~n notice o ea~p~d 'not come within the limit
fied him that his notice of aippd . d the Master of the Lodge and
C t'tution
a vise
specified by the ons i
:
t the Constitution an appeal may be
the complainant that according o. h
ty at its next succeeding
taken to the Grand Lodge by eilt er po~ce of such intended appeal
...· t'on but not un ess n
hi
annual commumca i '
't'
'thin thirty days after s
shall be given to the :Master /~h::~~~g a : it was my judgmen't'-that
announcement of the result o
. d' ny time on April 30th up to
ril 1 t
1 h ld have been receive a
this appea s ou
f the thirty days being Ap
s ,
midnight of that day, the first o
being April 30th.
.
t d
and the las ay
N 216 presented the following
A Past :Master of '' Dorlc'' Lodge, o.
'
question for decision:

GRA.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

207

"Has a Lodge, or the Worshipful Master thereof, the right to
create a salaried office not mentioned or enumerated in the By-Laws of
the Lodgef Is such an appointment lawfuU"
This quest~on was brought out by a resolution adopted by "Dorie"
Lodge as follows:
"That the Master be empowered to appoint an instructor, said instructor must be a member of ''Doric'' Lodge, for the purpose of
assisting candidates in the lectures of the first and second degrees.
Said instructor to receive a compensation of :five dollars for each
candidate instructed by him. ''
In the Uniform Code of By-Laws adopted by this Grand Lodge
there is no provision for the !1-Ppointment of such an officer as an
Instructor. Under our Constitution it is provided that no Lodge shall
advance an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft to a higher degree
until after a strict examination in open Lodge he shall have given
satisfactory evidence that he is entirely proficient and well qualified
in that or those he has already taken; thus being clearly noted that it
is the duty of the candidate to be properly prepared. There is no
doubt as to the i;ight of the Master, without the coment of the Lodge,
to appoint a brother to instruct a candidate; the real question is as
to the right to pay for such service from the Lodge funds. It appears
that when the resolution was adopted by "Doric" Lodge many can·
didates were appearing for examination, and hardly two had the same
work. It is undoubtedly at times a hardship on the Master of a
Lodge and on the Brethren to be required to teach a candidate the
lectures of the Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft degrees. After
a thorough and mature deliberation it is my opinion, as our laws now
•xist, that Lodge funds cannot be used for the purpose of paying an
lastructor, but the question as to whether or not it would be a ma·
terial advantage to our Fraternity if all candidates were taught the
work uniform!,. and might not materially reduce the work imposed
upon some of our Brethren in Lodges which are increasing rapidly in
IJembership by having a paid instructor should be given careful <:on·
lideration. Hence, I have not decided the question, but refer it to the
Grand Lodge for a decision as to the expediency of creating such an
office and having it paid by the Lodge if deemed best by any Lodge
of this Jurisdiction to do so, or to amend our uniform Code of By·
Laws to cover all points involved in the question presented.
Life Memberships.
From the large amount of correspondence received by me relative to
life memberships, it is apparently quite clear that many of the Lodges
do not thoroughly understand the regulations of the Grand Lodge in

208

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
I
rder· that the case may be
respect to this important matter. d n tto t•
is invited to the folproperly and thoroughly understoo • a en tion ame the name of the
.
.
f letters and my answers o s
'
lowing copies o
.
"tt d
The first communication was
Lodge being intent10nally omi e .
.
1905 and reads as follows:
dated Decemb er 4'
'
d t
f the Brethren
t"
held on above a e, one o
''At our annual mee mg,
f
r Lodge to pass a resohi·
t •t ould be necessary or ou
contended t h a i w
.
lif members for a stated sum
tion empowering the Lodge tob relceivethane one hundred and fifty dol·
h"ch was not to e ess
of money, w i
t'
hould embody the restrilltions as
lars ($150) apd that the reso 1u ion s
. d as laid down by the
to the investment of the . money thus. receive
Grand Lodge at their last annual meeting.
the
·
. .
lthough it was called to
"This contention was msisted upon, a .
B -Laws
Brother that Sec. 3, Artie-le VIIl of our y
attention of the
reads:
t"t t d a life member thereof upon the
'' 'Any member may be cons i;e~ and Fifty Dollars, and shall re·
payment of the sum of ?ne Hun ershi over the seal of the Lodge,
ceive a certificate of life memb
p
t . gned by the Secretary,
signed by the Worshipful Master and ~o~no:S~he payment of dues as
by which the recipient shall be exemp r
.
provided by Article IX, Sec. 1.' .
d ent to Article VIII
.
B Laws appears an amen m
"Again m our Y·
d f Article XV and is as fol·
to be known as Sec. 4, under the hea o
lows, viz.:
.
.
ent of life memberships in this
•' •All moneys received m paym
, •Th Life Mem·
. .
ount to be known as
e
Lodge shall be paid. mto ~n aced shall be invested as the Lodge may
bership Fund,". which said fu~d f d shall be placed in the General
direct and the income from sai
un
Fund of the Lodge.~
l t'
t life memberships are part of our
''Both these Artrnles re a mg o
•
By-Laws and have never be~n repe~:~dred and Four we refused to
"During the year of ~meteen l' . of the then M.:. W.:. Grand
issue life memberships ow!ng ·to a ru mg '
.
Master, 'that it could ~ot legally ber!o~:·th in letter and spirit with
' 'As the Lodge de~ires to confo
b
directed by the Lodge
all rulinga of the Grand Lodge, I hadve.. eenfrom you as to whether
"t b
r pleasure a ecision
.
to request, if i
e you
'
amendment or resolution to •
or not it is necessary for us to pass any
our By-Laws.
I
'l you one of our books of By-Laws
"Under separate cover, mai
di
f the matter.
h
l arer understan ng o
H
that you may ave a c e G
d Lodge requires a fee of Two un·
''I would add that the ran
l
D Uars a year and propor·
dred Dollars when the dues are Twe ve o

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

209

tionately less when the dues are less, and as our· dues are but Nine
Dollars . a year (one' quarter less than Twelve Dollars), therefore our
life membership fee should be that proportion less, viz.: One Hundred
and Fifty Dollar&. ' '
My answer to this letter was .dated December 9th, and was as
follows:
·
"Referring to your favor of the 4th regarding life membership in
your Lodge, also referring to the copy of By-Laws of your Lodge and
calling my attention to Article VIII, Sec. 3, which provides how life
memberships may be established in your Lodge, permit me to call
your attention to the fact that the copy of By-Laws as submitted was
apparently revised November 12, 1903. If that be a fact, I can not
understand why this Section regarding life memberships should be
.in your by-Laws. Please note Section 928, Anderson's Manual, read·
ing as follows:
" 'Sec. 928. No Lodge under the .Jurisdiction of the Grand
Lodge of California can establish life memberships by resolution or
in any other manner.'
''This was approved by the Grand Lodge in Session of 1901. Same
was not apparently understood by all Lodges, as you will note by
reading Sections 936 and 937, which are as follows:
'' 'Sec. 936. Several Lodges in the .Jurisdiction have contended
that the decision of the Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of
1900, relative to Life Membership, did not prevent them from issu·
ing life memberships where ·a standing resolution or by-law passed
prior to and in force at the time of the decision so provided. I have
decided that a life membership is not established by the mere passing
of a resolution providing for it, but that the act of receiving the
money and issuing the certificate constitutes or establishes the life.
membership, and that, since said decision, it is improper and illegal
to issue or grant any life membership or receive any money therefor,
and any and all resolutions or by-laws providing therefor should be
immediately repealed by the Lodge.
" 'Sec. 937. Where a Lodge, prior to the decision of 1900, has,
by resolution or otherwise, granted a life membership, agreed that
a Brother should be a life member, and enrolled him as such in
accordance with the agreement, or in any manner created and granted
such life membership, it is then an executed contract between him
and the Lodge, and ~an not be set aside or rescinded without the
consent of both, and such life memberships must stand.'
"This was adopted and approved by the Grand Lodge in Session
of 1902, consequently why should the revised copy_of your By-Lawll

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA. .

210

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of November 12 1903 contain any section regarding life memberships
1
when the Grand1 Lodge decided that all resolutions or by-laws providing therefor should be immediately repealed by the Lodget
"If life memberships are desired by the members of the Lodge, it
must be strictly in accordance with the resolution adopted at the session of the Grand Lodge of October, 1905. All Lodges should follow
the uniform Code of By-Laws, copies of which can be secured from
the Grand Secretary.
' 'If this is not clearly understood, please advise me further. ' '
Under date of December 12th, the ease was again brought up for
further review by the Lodge interested in the following communication:
"In reply to your valued favor of the 9th, I avail myself of the
privilege granted me of again writing you if, as you say, your letter
is not clearly understood.
"I note See. 928, 936 and 937, which you quote, and have had
knowledge of them, except that portion of See. 936 as follows, viz:
'' • . . 'and any and all resolutions or by-laws providing therefor
would be immediately repealed by the Lodge.'
"This part I must confess I was not aware of or being so, it must.
have escaped my memory or I would assuredly, have brought it to the
attention of the Worshipful Master, who would undoubtedly have
had proper steps taken for the repealing of that portion of our ByLaws relating to life :nemberships.
.
"Nevertheless the ruling of the Grand Lodge has been strictly
observed by us and no life memberships have been granted since that
decision.
"But the question remains, now that our By-Laws relating to life
membership has never been repealed and we trust meets with all the
requirements of the Grand Lodge, is it necessary for us to pass· any
resolution or amendment or take any further action t
''As I do not understand that you have decided this question in
your letter before mentioned, I have taken the liberty of again
troubling you that you may so enlighten us that we may proceed without further errors.''
My final decision, dated December 15th, was as follows:
· "Replying to your favor of the 12th, I hold that no life memberships can · be authorized except as provided by the resolution adopted
by the Grand Lodge during its meeting of October, 1905, and in
accordance
Uniform Code of By-Lawe hereto attached and
made po.rt of
c m.munieation. All resolutions and amendments
0
to your By-Laws in conflict therewith should be immediately repealed,

~\b..___the
th~

211

and if life memberships are desired
Laws or the resolution ado t d ' follow the Uniform Code of ByLodge.
''
P e at the last meeting of th e Gmri
I
that Brethren of th G
stan~n order
the ease, I quote from eth rand. Lodge may thoroughly under-

I;

portion of the same relating to
Uniform ?ode of By-Laws that
''Sect'
1
e memberships:
f
.
ion • The dues of each membe
.:.........................
r o this Lodge shall b
vided that this Lodge, by the
quarterly in advance.
effect,
resolution shall not
of a standing resolution ;o that
at which it is introduced nor
t'laeted upon at the stated meeting
'
.have be en f orwarded by mail
toun i notice in wri't'mg thereof shall
~stem of life membership. which :::;;f member, may provide for a
.
orever exempt the life m
er from the payment of d.
th t
.
ues therein s ·d
ema no life membership shall b
.
ai resolution shall provide
sum of money named therein :h~ahnted except upon payment of a
dues are $12 ·00 ' b e not less tha
• th
ie sum shall ' m
· ease the annual
amount to be proportionate!
n
e sum of $200, and the minimum
less; and shall further pro~fee:~e: o~ less as the dues are greater or
berehip shall be invested onl .
a a I amounts paid for life mem
such bonds of the United Stytm such reputable banks of deposit or . 't
a es State f C lif
.
in
e1 y and county, city or to
'th
o
a ornia, or some county
stocks, b on d s or securities aswn
ereof
or
in
A"
ma b
'.
su...,. other first-class'
proved by the Master, and tha[ o:l direete.d by the Lodge and apus~d by the Lodge, the original amo y the income thereof shall be
t~med as and for a permanent Lifeu~s to be f.orever kept and maintion shall require the Seeretar .
embership Fund. Said resoluthe Grand Lodge to report th y i~ making . his Annual Report to
roll, the amount of the fund ~hnum er of life members borne on the
said fund is invested S 'd ue created, and the manner in whi'.eh
·
·
·
ai resolut'
h 11
its approval by the Grand Mast '' ion s a take effect only upon

.whi~h

·~d~a[.able
~;on

pro~

"" Sequoia" Lo dge, No. 349, presented
er·
th f 11 .
Moved that the Past Masters of 'S e. o, owmg for approval:
have served 'Sequoia' Lodge as W
e.quoia Lodge, No. 349, who
members.''
orshipful Master be made life
ee1'dental" Lodge ' No . 22 presented the following resolution
for "O
approval:
"Resolved, That all Past Masters of '
.
.
Occidental' Lodge, No. 22
be and they are hereb m d . .
Both of these res:iuti:n: al h:e
of this Lodge.''
'
that· the Grand Lodge at its last se::tne t~ approve, on the ground
can only be granted upon
on decided that life memberships
payment of a sum of
.
. ease the annual dues
moneyarenamed
in dolthe
reso ution, which sum shall" m
twelve

;e~ber

1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

212

lars, be not less than the sum of $200.00, and the m1mmum amount
to be proportionately greater or less as the dues are greater or less,
and as the evident intent of the resolution was not to grant life
memberships without the payment of a sum of money, the same were
in conftict with the Regulations of the Grand Lodge and the Uniform
Code of By-Laws.

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

:Masonic Home, Decoto.

It was my intention when I assumed the position as Grand Master
to give the Masonic Home considerable attention, but, unfortunately,
other matters of serious importance have prevented, but recently I
had an opportunity of visiting our splendid institution and going
over it very carefully. In my judgment, the Home is well and eco·
nomically conducted; the Brethren, their wives and the widows who are
domiciled there are certainly well taken care of in every particular.
It was very pleasing to note the neat and healthy appearance of all
the children, and I cannot speak too highly' of the excellent care and
motherly devotion of our Matron, Mrs. Rucker, whose heart is undoubtedly wrapped up in the welfare of the children, young and old,
under her charge. It is my opinion that the Trustees are handling
the business of the Home in the best possible manner, and I cannot
see how any great saving can be made. We have erected this magnificent institutioll, and must conduct it so that it will be a credit to
our Fraternity, and I feel positive that our Trustees are doing everything in their power to follow the teachings of our beloved Order
and looking carefully after the interests of the Grand Lodge. It has
been suggested that it would be more satisfactory to some of the
Lodges if we followed the method adopted by the Southern California Home; that is, to require each Lodge which may place an
adult or a child in the Home to pay for their maintenance, and for
the Grand I.i::·i~e to provide for the fixed charges, such as expend,iture!
for help, Superintendent, Matron, taxes and other charges that must be
maintained to keep ;J.p the institution, but the cost of food and
supplies given to each inmate shall be paid by the respective Lodges
whom they are charged against. This question was brought up in
Los Angeles, where .one Lodge of three hundred and forty members
pays annually three hundred and forty dollars towards the Masonic
Home, and has· never had any direct benefits from it, whereas another
Lodge of equal size has had a Brother and his wife as inmates for
several years; hence, as a suggestion, it might be well to investigate
the propriety of changing the system, following the lines, as before
stated, of the California Masonic Home Association at San Gabriel.
I have also had the pleasure of visiting the California :Masonic
Home Association, and find that they have a magnificent propetty, and

that the buildings and grounds are in an
tion, and the property has b
:
excellent stat e of preservaeen improved very mat . ll d .
past year. Certainly the Brethren hav
er1a y. urmg the
and one which, in my Judgment will e made an excellent mvest ment,
ternity. Brother W Fra k p·'
prove of great value to the Fra.
·
n
ierce has made
.
.
my opmion, is wise I.Ind sho ld b
a suggestion which, in
.
'
u
ear careful in t• t '
provided satisfact ory arran
t
ves iga ion; that is,
gemen s can be effect d t t
adults to the California H
t S
e , o ransfer the
that our.Decoto Home be u~:ie e:tir:in ~abriel, near Los Angele~, and
of allowing the boys and irl
. y or an orphanage. The wisdom
to be in the same buildingg s growthmg into manhood and wc:imanhood
' or on e same grounds
th
:mature years, has b een a q uest ion
• of serious
.
e adults of
c
· d ' as
t·
these are but suggestions a d •t
ul
ons1 era ion. However,
for a Committee to be ~ n . ; d wo d seem to me that it is wise
both of these matters I ha;~~:o:gh:ou;~refully investigate each or
Our Home at Decoto hJWI been au lied .
. .
I have carefully examined th
k PP
with a prmt mg office, and
e wor turned out unde th d"
.
tne foreman in charge, and f eel satisfied h
.
r
e irection of
tage, both to our Home and to th Fr t t _at i~ would be an ad,van·
Jurisdiction would have their
. ~ a dermty, if the Lodges of this
enable them to conduct th p~mt· ng one at the Home. It would
. all
e prm mg office very.-ec
serve as an opportunity to teach th e young people a. onom1c
y, and
useful trade.
California Masonic H ome Association,
.
at San Gabriel.
At our last Annual Communication fiv
priatecl to be paid to the C !if
. e thous~nd dollars was approand a check for that
a ornia Masomc Home Association
Grand Secretary and by amounft was transmitted to me by the
Ass
me orwarded to the Sec t
f
re ary o said
ociation with the following communication:

"I am transmitting herewith Grand Lo
fornia check No 151 f
fi
th
dge F. and A. M. of Cali.
ousand doll
($5 o
9 or ve
my order and endors€d by me to the 'Cal"
a~s ' 00) , payable to
ieiation,' and in t ransm'tt•
th•
iforma Masonic Home Asso1 mg
is check I · 't
.
hcular attention to the Report of th Fi
~v1 e your parLodge which was d
e nance Committee of the Grand
" ;Th
a opted at the last session, reading as follows·
. 1 C
.
.
e recommendation of the S
~vestigate and report concernin the pec~a ?mm1ttee. appointed to
emtion th t
g
Cahforma Masomc Home Asso· t ed as a donation to said
'
ahas ab sum be
,lasociation
f appropria
een care ully considered
d ft
.
the Chairman of sa· d
C
.
' an a er confei:ence witl1
i 8 pec1a1 omm1tte1'7 we oft' th f II .
lution and recommend •t d t'
'
er. e o owmg reso" '
l s a op IOU:
th ered biodand is
. hereby appropriated from the
GeneralResolved
Fund ~f Tbat
this G
ran
ge, the sum of $5,000, to be paid t o

a

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF 0.ALIFORNIA.

tho California Masonic Home Association in the care and maintenance
of sick and distressed Brother Master Masons, their widows and
orphans; and, be it further
'' 'Resolved, That the California Masonic Home Association be,
and it is hereby directed to, report to the next Communication of
this Grand Lodge, its financial condition, and the work performed by
it and under its supervision, including a detailed statement of the
cost of the operation and conduct of the institution maintained by it.'
"In calling your attention to .the resolution adopted, permit me
to advise that, in my judgment, this resolution conflicts with your
Announcement, Explanation, Rules and Qualifications for admission to
the California Masonic · Home Association; particularly on page 23,
paragraph 2, under the head of 'Qualifications,' reading as follows:
'' 'All entitled to relief under the laws, customs and usages of
Free and Accepted Masonry and the Order of the Eastern Star are
eligible to the Home; namely, sick and indil!fllnt Masons in good standing and the destitute and helpless members of the families of deceased
Maso.ns in good standing at their death, of some Masonic Body or
Eastern Star in this part of our Jurisdiction.'
''And on page 24, paragraph 1, under the head of 'Rules,' reading
as follows:
'' 'Admission to the Home will be made by the Board of Directors,
on the nomination of any organized Masonic Body (either of the York
or Scottish Rite), any Chapter of the Eastern Star, or any Masonic
Board of Relief of Southern California, such nomination to be duly
certified by the proper officers and under seal. Admission may be
had on the nomination of individual Masons, their widows or orphans
i:p good standing in other Masonic Jurisdictions who are able to
defray their entire expenses, at the discretion of the Board of
Directors.'
"You will note that the Grand Lodge instructions are that this
money donated is 'to be used by said Association in the care and
maintenance of sick and distressed Brother Master Masons, their
widows and orphans,' whereas, your rules, apparently, apply simply
to those in Southern California. Before your acceptance of this
d mation it is my duty as Grand Master to call your attention to
these important points, and to request that before this money is used
by you that you consent and agree to the resolution adopted by tho
Grand Lodge, which, in my judgment, provides for the care and maintenance of ·sick and distressed Brother Master Masons, their widows
and orphans, Qf the entire California Jurisdiction.''
In -reply the following communication was received by me:

. ..

215

"I regret to have delayed nt'l
your kind favor of October 18~ I ~ow_ acknowledging receipt of
clonation to the California Mas~n~nc ~smg check -fo.r $5,000, as a
Most Worshipful Grand Lod e of c
?me .Assoc~ahon, from the
the Board of Directors have h~d a m~::~forniad. hSmce its. receipt,
t · d ·
mg an t e resolutions con
. rune in your 1etter were read to the Board also th tt t•
Finance Committee to a seemin d '
•
e a en ion of the
.
g iscrepancy between two r l
u es, were
discussed and satisfactorily expla· d 0
the enclosed copy of Rules should i;:ad as ~of1:~s·23, paragraph 2,. of
'''All
·
.
entitled to relief under the laws, customs
Free and Accepted Masonry
d th 0
and usages of
eligible to th H
.
an . e rder of the Eastern Star are
e
ome, namely, sick and indigent M
·
standing and the destitute and helpless members of t~:o~s I~· goo~
deceased Masone _in good standing at their death
am1 iee ~
Body or Eastern Star in this Jurisdiction.'
' of some Masonic
"The Board of Direetors instructed me t 0
·
thr
h
t h
convey to y ou and
oug you o t e Grand Lodge of California th .
.
'
acknowledgment that the labor in wh· h
' eir expression of the
C rf
. H
ic we are engaged in this, our
a i .ornia
ome at San Gabriel, is a worthy obJ"ect of
(Jaanty."
Masonic

·f'

for

s:::r~e;:;:sc:;~ec; ~ cal~ed ~~?n the Secretary of the Association

or Y
is Grand Lodge in the resolution
adopted at the last Annual Session and said R
t
.
as follows:
'
epor as presented 1s·
0

Los Angeles, Cal., B~ptember 20, 1906.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge,
F. and A. M. of California.'
tDe;r B~et~ren: I~ ac.cordance with the resolution adopted at your
1
as . r~n
ommun1cation, ''That the California Masonic Home
Assoc1at~on . be, and. it is hereby directed to report to the next
Coz:munication of this Grand Lodge, its financial condition and the
:i:r . performed by it and under its supervision, including ~ detailed
~em~nt of the cost of the operation and conduct of the inst1't t•
maintained b it "
h
u ion
. .
y ' we ave pleasure in complying therewith in th
submiss10n of the following:
e

D~ring September and Octob_e;r, 1905, a co~plete ~orps of hel
was. in.stalled. and the Home and. grqunds ~~s in readiness for th~
admission of mmates by November 15th Th fi t
.
hers of
H
.
·
e rs permanent memour ome fam:..ly were admitted in December 1905 th b ·
.
nmg of our Association year.
'
' e egm·

216

217

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Financial Statement.
December 1, 1905, cash on hand .............. . .. . ........ $ 5,049 92
Collected from all sources since................ . ......... 7,079 07

This is larger than it will be next year; while the. table expenses
and help will be more, water, insuranee, printing and sundries will be
much less.
The net cost of table board has been $15 per month, which will be
reduced as the family becomes larger. We have had some twenty·
four in the Home, but now have twelve regular inmates, a happy,
contented family. There are other applicants who will soon be admitted.
The Board of Directors all have the interests of our Home at
heart and are now planning for a large increase in the general interest
of the Fraternity-which will increase our income. The Institution
is entirely free from debt and the assets at present are:
Ten acres of ground, worth ..................... , ....•..... $ 10,000
Buildings •.......................•. . .........•...•.....• 70,000
Furniture, fixtures and machinery .. . ..... , •........•....... 10,000
Cash and Trust l!'und securities .•.........................•.
8,817
Due from members and donors ............................ .
1,300

Total .................... . .. . ........ • . . .... , ... $12,128 99
entire cash paid out since.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 6,161 83
Cash on hand September 20, 1906. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $5,967 16
Of the above balance there is to theCredit of the General Fund. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . $4,281 76
Credit of the Trust Fund..... . .................... 1,685 40
Our Home is supported by gratuous donations, together with membership fees of $1.00 per year, or $25 for Life.
We were exceedingly fortunate in securing Mrs. Ora E. Aikin as
our Matron, who has for the last twelve months given entire satisfaction. She has at present two women as houaekeepers, who also keep
the dining-room, and one woman as cook. At present only one man
cares for the grounds aud cow. The men in the Home are assisting
in the· care of the grounds. Our pay-roll for help is $130 per month;
as soon as cold w:eather begins this will be increased to $155 per
month.
The expense account for the last thirteen months is made up as
follows:
Help, for 13 months . •.... . ................... • . . .•...•... $1,294 28
Water, for 13 months ............................... ·• .. · 265 00
Coal and oil, for 13 months............ . ............... .. . 237 24
Lights, for 13 months.................................... 198 05
Insurance, for 3 years ................... . .•.........•. . .. 1,400 00
Premium on Bonds, Treasurer and Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
12 00
Taxes for 1905-6 •....•..•...•• . .........•.......• · · • · • · • 152 35
Printing, for 13 months....................... . .......... · 106 00
Meat ......•..•.. . ...... • . . • • .. • ..... , .. , ........ $162 05
Groceries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • 777 45
Milk ...•..•...........•..•.•...............•..• 27 63
Vegetables ..........• . . • . . • . .......... . ... . .. . .. 31 10
Cow feed ............•..••..•........ · · .. · · · · · · · · 27 70
Total ..........•. • •... · · • • • · • · · · · · · · · · · • · ·
Drugs •........•.....•......... · .. · · • · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Laundry •.... •• ·•. · .. •· · · · · •· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · • · · ·
Sundries, including many repairs, stamps, stationery,
transportation, etc. . .•.... . .............. . ..
Secretary, for 13 months ................ . ......••.

$1,020 93
15 03
141 50

Total •...........•................• • · · · · · •

$5,434 41

267 03
325 00

Total •......•...........•......................... $100,117
All of which cost only $26,500; insured for $40,000.
The Board of Directors have demonstrated the fact that this splen·
did Home can be run on $5,000 per year, and hope soon to have an
annual income from dues of that amount.
We congratulate the Fraternity on the acquisition of this mag·
nificent property, and earnestly invoke their hearty co-operation, that
it may be the pride of California Masonry.
Fraternally submitted, by order of the
• BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
(Signed) W. B. SCARBOROUGH, Secretary.
Masonic Board of Relief-Philippine Islands.
f

At our last Annual Communication the ;Finance Committee pre·
1ented, as a portion of their Report, the following:
"Relative to the resolution of 'Manila' Lodge, No. 342, petitioning this Grand Lodge to appropriate to the use of the Masonic Board
of Relief of the Philippine Islands the sum of $350 for the year co.mmencing January, 1906, said Board of Relief to be composed of the
Lodge above named and 'Cavite' Lodge, f9'e have to report that no
Board of Relief has yet been organized in the Philippine Islands;
that there are now two Lodges under the Jurisdiction of this Grand
Body and three under the Jurisdiction of the Grand Council of
France; and while the Brethren of 'Manila' Lodge have been
eubjected to no little hardship by reason of the demands made upon

218

219

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

them for assistance to stranded Masons, we feel that until Masonic
affairs in the Philippines beeome more settled, and a Board of Relief •
is actually organized, and its plans of operation submitted to this
Grand Lodge and meets with its approval, no appropriation should be
made, and therefore recommend that said .application be :filed.''
Whieh was adopted by the Grand Lodge. Under date of April
28th last, the Worshipful Master of "Manila" Lo.dge, No. 342, ad·
dressed a communication to me on the subject of a Relief Association
for the Philippine Islands, transmitting at the same time eopy of the
proposed By-Laws, and asked that I approve and make any suggestions in the way of eritieism towards the organization of said Relief
Association. I advised the Master of the Lodge that this ease had
been up .for eonsidera.tion at our last Annual Communication and
that all papers transmitted by him, together with eopy of the proposed By-Laws, would be transmitted to this Grand Body for their
aetion. Said papers are herewith transmitted with the recommendation that they receive careful and serious consideration.

were endeavoring to .irganize a Masonic Lodge in that city, and
they advised that if S\lch a Lodge was organized it would seriously
injure both "Reedley" and "Traver." Lodges. Within a few
moments I met a number of the Brethren interested in the organization of this new Lodge at Dinuba, and they informed me that Dinuba
"."as very prosperous and increasing in population very rapidly, and
that a Masonic Lodge would be of material bene:fi.t in the up-building
of their home city. I made many inquiries, but not being altogether
sure of the t:i'u~ facts, requested Worshipful Brother James C. Pottle,
Inspector of the District, to give the matter a most careful investigation, and he advised me that at :first he was averse to the organization
of the Lodge, but . after investigation found it was very necessary
and proper and should have the encouragement of the Grand Master.
Thereupon I took up the ease with the Master of "Reedley" Lodge
and was informed that a petition of these Brethren for the new Lodge
had been twice presented to "Reedley" Lodge, the nearest and
probably most convenient Lodge, at their l!'ebruary and March meetings and had been denied on both oeeasions. Whereupon, I wrote the
Master of ''Reedley'' Lodge in full, advising him that under our
Constitution the recommendation of the nearest and most convenient
Chartered Lodge must be obtained b efore the Grand Master eould
issue the Dispensation, and I did not b elieve that the Lodge that had
sueh power should use it arbitrarily, and if it was really a faet that
a Lodge was of material bene:fi.t to our Fraternity at Dinuba that I
hoped that the Brethren of "Reedley " Lodge would grant their
areeommendation. The letter had no effeet and "Reedley" Lodge
again declined to grant the recommendation. It was my intent ion to
~eai.ately leave for Reedley and Dinuba and personally investigate
the conditions, but unfortunately the r elief work has seriously interfered, but on September 29th I visited Dinuba and looked over the
situation very carefully and met with twenty-three of the Brethren
of that city who were anxious to organize a Masonic Lodge, and
was informed that if a new Lodge eould be started they would easily
have forty-one or forty-two Brethren who were anxious to join.
Dinuba is a prosperous. little eity, growing rapidly, is seven miles
from Reedley, and there does not appear to be any r eason in my
,iudgmcnt why a new Lodge should not be organized in that city.
While I have no words of criticism for our brethren at Reedley, I feel
that they do not understand the facts, but believe that a new Lodge
would be a detriment to them by reason of the loss of a few members.
Jlowever, it is my judgment that in this world we should do the
greatest good to the greatest number, and the Grand Lodge should
consent to the organization of this new Lodge. To do this our Constitution will have to be amended, but in view of the fact that I ean

Dispensation for New Lodge in the PhiliP1Jine Islands.
During the past few months. I have received considerable correspondence relative to the establishment of another Lodge in Manila,
Philippine Islands. Papers were in P!Oper form, with the exception
that Certificate of Quali:fi.cation from a Master of a Lodge was not
transmitted. In view of the fact that this is a constitutional requirement, I trarisinitted all papers to our Grand Secretary, with
instructions that it would not be possible for me to sign the Dispensation for this new Lodge unti.1 this very necessary requirement had
been complied with. At my last interview with our Grand Secretary
I :find that this certi:fi.cate has not as yet been r eceived, henee there is
no necessity for issuing a Dispensation prior to the meeting of this
Grand Body.
Among the papers asking for this Dispensation is the approval
of "Manila" Lodge~ No. 342; yet by the same mail I received a
letter from the Master. of that Lodge, in which he submits certain
arguments .showing that it is not altogether advisable to establish
another Lodge at Manila at this time. It might be well, therefore,
that all correspondence in connection with a new Lodge and papers
asking for DispensaiJion be referred to a Committee for investigation
and report to this .Grand .Body at this Session.
Necessity of a New Lodge at Dinuba.
At our last Annual Session the Representatives of "Reedley"
Lodge, No. 304, and "Traver" Lodge, No. 294, call_e d to my attention that a number of Brethren residing at Dinuba, Tulare County,

.·

'•

•

220

PROCEEDINGS OF. THE

now recall several cases where certain Lodges have arbitrarily refused
to grant recommendations for new Lodges, which facts I should be
glad to give to the Committee of Jurisprudence at any time, makes it
incumbent upon me to respectfully but urgently recommend the
Constitution be so amended that the Grand Master have the power
in case the nearest or most convenient Lod·g e shall refuse a recommendation for the organization of a new Lodge, to investigate the
necessity and issue a Dispensation if it is, in hie judgi:nent, considered
best and proper. This recommendation has not been made hurriedly,
but after deep thought and, to my mind, will result in great benefit to
our Grand Jurisdiction.
Conclusion.
Finally, my Brethren, in closing my Report, I desire to thank you
one and all for the kindness and courtesy extended to me during the
past Masonic year. I commenced my year's work with the best
intentions in the world, intending it to be one long to be remembered
in Masonic history, for I anticipated visiting practically all the Lodges
in the State, but my personal business, my health, and the relief work
has prevented. I have, however, been errabled to visit a large number
of our Lodges· and have been received with fraternal kindness,
and I assure -you that the memory of the cordial greeting, the hearty
hand-clasp, and the words of welcome from our Brethren will never
be forgotten. Not being gifted with the flow of words required by
our orators, I have not attempted to make speeches during my numerous visits, but have endeavored to impress upon all the Fraternity that
this was to have been a business administration, and if I have succeeded to your satisfaction it will be a source of great pleasure to me.
In visiting different portions of the State I have observed a great
deal of discussion regarding "Superior California," "Northern California,'' ''Central California,'' and ''Southern California.'' My
.tlrethren, we have in this great State but one California, and that is
the whole and the entire State. If there is any time in our history
when we require united effort it is now, and by this united effort we
can rebuild and make the portion of our State requiring our assistance
far better than before, and I ask you now, one and all, to forget
everything but that one great word, ''California.'' It will require
the highest type of Jitizenehip to continue California 'e reputation
and steady advancement, and nothing can do more in up-building this
great State than to ·have each and every Lodge in California assisting
in the splendid work.
Respectfully and fraternally submitted,
MOTLEY HEWES FLINT,
Grand Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

221

ADDITIONAL REPORT

~wing to the. preparation of Relief Report, which occupied a great
pothon of my time for the past two weeks, it became necessary to
prepa~e my An~ual Address t;arlier than is usual by my predecessors;
.~oneequently, since the Address has gone to print several matters of
mt~r~st to th~. Fraternity have arisen and I deem it necessary to
submit an additional Report for consideration by this Grand Body.

Disaster in the South.
·some ten days ago newspaper dispatches reported that storms had
created. great havoc and ruin, "'.'ith loss of life, at Mobile, Alabama,
and points near there, and at Pensacola, Florida, and points near
the".'e. I endeavored to keep carefully posted on the situation but
the newspaper dispatches were unsatisfactory. I, therefore, ~ired
the Deputy and Acting Grand Master of Masone, the Most Worshipful Ben M. Jacobs, at Birmingham, Alabama, and the Most Worshipful Charles W. Johnson, Grand Master of Masons Jacksonville
Florida, informin~ them that I had been endeavorin~ to ascertai~ ·
the true conditions existing in their Jurisdictions from the newspaJ.r.r dispatches, but that same were unsatisfactory and that this
Jurisdiction stood ready to extend any relief required financial or
otherwise, by wire. I have received a :report from the Grand Master
of ~-asons of l!'lorida with fraternal· thanks for my message · and
advising that the Grand Jurisdiction of Florida was able to take care
of the distressed in that State. No report, has, as yet, been received
from the Jurisdiction of Alabama.
.
Additional Dispensation.
Dispensation has been issued for a new Lodge in Los Angeles
city, to be known as "Highland Park" Lodge.
Remission of Dues.
During August last I addressed a communication to the Master
and Secretary of every Lodge in the stricken district of this Juriscliction, requesting information as to their financial condition, and
4

..

•

222

l

asking whether or not they were able to pay their Grand Lodge dues,
and if not to make necessary temporary .arrangements to meet same
and submit the facts to me for submission to this Grand Body for.
action as to the remission of said dues. The on~ Lodge making a
direct request for the remission of their dues is that of "La Parfai te
Union,'' No. 17, of San Francisco; the papers in connection with
which are transmitted herewith for reference to the proper Committee.
Condition of Masonry in the Philippine Islands.
1

Brother Amos G. Bellis, representative fro m "Manila" Lodge,
No. 342, called upon me the past few days, at my office in Los An·
geles, and brought up for serious consideration the condition of
Mas<>nry in the Philippine Islands, more particularly as to the recognition of certain Grand Jurisdictions, and on the advisability of the
estal>lishment of a Grand Lodge in the Philippine Islands. Inas·
mueh as the conversation brought up several matters of vital impoTt·
an!:•, to Masonry in general, I reqµeljjed Brother Bellis to set forth
all of the facts in a co.mmunication which would be pr,eaented to this.
Grand Body. Said communication is as follpws:
"Los Angeles, Cal., October 3, 1906.
"Motley H. Flint, Esq., M.·. W.·. Grand Master,
Grand Lodge of California, F. and A,, M.,
Los Angeles, Cal.
"Most Worshipful Siri ·In reply to your request for a statemen.t
i;ege.rding the Spanish-Filipino Lodge in Manila, working under
eh.arter from the Grand Orient of Spain, I desire to submit the f.ol·
lowing:
"In Manila at the p1'611ent time theYe are th!'ee active Lotlgc&<,
regularly ehartered by the Grand Orient of Spa.in, viz.: "DB.lisay"
Lodge, No. 177; ('Modesto" Lod'ge, No. 199; and "Binu~ua.n.''
Lodge, No. 272. Another Lodge, "Mabini," No . ...-, worki.ng ·m
Aparri, Cagaayan (the northern part of Luzon), recently rec~1ved a
charter from the Grand O:dent. These Lodges were not recognized by
"Manila" Ipdge, ~o. 342, Jurisdiction of California, until the latter
oart of 1904 when in response to an inquiry, our W.:. M.·. Brother
G. Squie; received a eommunication from M.:. W.:. P_ast Gr~nd
M•ister Nutting inferring that these Lodges were regular, smee which
tir•.G Masonic interc<>urse has been excbailged between ''Manila''
Lodge and the three 'filpa.nish--Filipill<J Lodges above mentioned.
"There are also about seventeen other Lodgew in the Philippine!!\
all claiming to hold charters from the Grand Orient of· Spain, that

H.

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.•

223

are in a dto.rmant state. Under their Constitution, these Lodges can
become ac 1ve and resume their work whenever a sufficient number
of members of a Lodge may desi're.
The Grand Orieiit of Spain is composed of the Supreme Council
33d degree; the Grand Council of the Order, members of which are
elected by a General Assembly oonsis1ing of representatives. fTom all
L:tdges, Oh&pters, etie., up to the 33d degree; and the various Subordinato Bodies dependent upon the above. The Supreme Council exere~es jori~ietion over all the degrees from the fourth to the thirty•
vhilld, while _the first three degree11 are the special charge of· the
Grand Council of the Order. The Grand OrieJ;1t of Spain claims to
work in Scottish Rite Ma.sonry only.
. .
''There were also 11everal Lodges in the Philippines holding charfrom the Grand Orient. of France, but these Lodges were not
recognized by "Manila" Lodge. I understand that the party at the
M•v: of these Lodges has recently returned his eharter to the Grand
Orient of Fran.ca, and has. petiti.ol!flcl the G~and Council of France t()
be healed.
"I have recently been informed that there are several Masonic
G1·and Bodies in Spain, each claiming to be regular, and as there has
beeu some doubt expressed as to whether or not the Grand Orient of
Spf!in, which controls. the three native LodgEs in Manila recognized
by ''Manila'' Lodge, is a regular Masonic Body recognized as such
by oth6:1' regular Masonic Jurisdictions, I would fraternally, request
that this matter be looked into and that "Manila" Lodg11 be informed in the premises. r believe that this question should be settled
in 'ri~w of the liarge numbers of dormant Lodgss cl:aimi11.g to hold
charters from the Grand Orient of Spain, and whieli may become
active at any time, and also of the fact that new Lodges are being
chartered. Two of these native LodgeEJ have an· American member
raised since the A.m&riean oClmlpation. and when I left Manila one ot
them had received and balloted upon petitions from three Americans
for the degrees of Masonry.
•
t~rs

"I might state here that there is a Spaniard residing in Cavite
P. I., who claims to be a regular Mason, and who states that th~
Grand Orient of Spain is not a regular Masonic Body. I also know
that this Spaniard has been refused admittance to the three native
Lodges in Manila, as they claim that he is under a ban of the Grand
Orient of Spain, and on their objection he was also denied admittance
into "Manila" Lodge. However, I am informed that this Spaniard.
visits '' Cavite'' Lodge frequently.
·
"Trusting that this will receive some consideration by you and

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAI.IFORNIA.

225 .

the, M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge, as it is for the good of regular and
legitimate Masonry in the Philippines, I beg to remain,
"Yours very fraternally,
(Signed) ''AMOS G. W. BELLIS,
"Representative 6£ 'Manila' Lodge, No. 342."
I would earnestly ;ecommend that the entire subject of the additional Lodge in the Philippines and the conditions of Masonry in
saitl Islands be referred to a Committee for careful investigation
and report at this session. Brother Bellis is a representative at this
Communication and will undoubtedly give the Committee any facts
thn t they may require.
· Respectfully submitted,
MOTLEY HEWES :l!'LINT,
Grand Master.

Which was referred to a special committee of three Past
Grand Masters, and the Deputy Grand Master named the
following brethren to constitute such committee:
On Address of Grand Master.

M:.w:. Edmund C. Atkinson,

M:.w:.James B. Stevens,
M:.w:.George W. Hunter.

And, on motion of thew:. Oscar Lawler, Grand Orator,
the thanks of Grand Lodg~ was tendered our M. ·~ W. ·.
Grand Master, and 2,500 copies of his address ordered
printed for distribution.
The Grand Master then presented a detailed report of
the General Masonic Relief Fund as follows:

GRf\ND Mf\STER'S RELIEF
REFORT
Los ANGELES, CAL.
October 1, 1906.
Brethren of the Grand Lodge

On the morning of April 18th last as! was about to leave my home to attend
to my business engagements the telephone operator at my office called mf' up
and stated that she had just received a message from the train dispatcher
of the Southern Pacific Railway informing her that there had been a severe
earthquake in San Francisco and a number of people had been killed. Of
course I little realized that the disaster would prove. so serious, but on reaching the center of the city I ascertained that the newspapers were preparing
to issue extras and then it dawned upon me that the casualty was much more
serious than first appeared. I immediately called upon the telegraph companies 11.nd the railway authorities for full information biit unfortunately
the wires out of San Francisco were ei~her seriously damaged or not working
satisfactorily and but little information could be secured more than the fact
that the loss of life had been appalling and the city of San Francisco was
burning. Notwithstanding the fact that my physical condition was not all
that could be desired I deemed it my duty to go to San Francisco at once
and within a short time Brother Oscar Lawler, Grand Orator, telephoned and
volunteered his assistance and agreed to go with me by first train. We left
Los Angeles at the first opportunity and on reaching Oakland the next morning found the streets crowded with panic stricken people from San francisco
practically all ~f whom had lost all their earthly possessions and were simply
striving for an opportunity to get away from the scene of the terrible disastef
and the conflagration which was fast destroying the metropolis of the Pacific coast. After inquiries I ascertained that a meeting of Masons had been
called for April 20th at the &:Ma.sonic Temple and I 'attended this meeting
and found that it had been called by Doctor R. W. Meek, he acting as tern~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

226

227

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

porary Ch:>irman. It was found that the first matter of importance was t.he
securing of funds to meet the immediate necessities. Every bank in Oakland and surrounding points was closed. I finally, by giving proper guarantees, was accommodated by Brother Samuel J. Taylor, Secretary of the Realty
Syndicate, with a loan of one thousand dollars in gold, and at this time I desire to express to Brother Taylor my deep and sincere appreciation of his
kindness in our hour of need. Finding that it was not possible to secure further
funds I telegraphed to Los Angeles and instructed that three thousand dollars
in postal money orders be ·sent me from my personal funds !\S I was satisfied
that I could secure the necessary amoi,mt through thepost-office. I will add
that for many days all the available funds I secured was through post-office
money orders sent me from Los Angeles which were promptly cashed through
the courtesy of the Postmasters of Oakland and San "Francisco. This method
immediately relieved the financial situation. Dr. R. W. Meek was elected
President of the Masonic Relief Bureau and appointed the following brethren
members of the Executive Committee. Alfred William Burrell, David
Rutherford, George Roeth, Adam Francis GunnandJosephFountainClui.ndler.
The Masonic Temple at Oakland was immediately opened and lodging given
hundreds in the different rooms in the building. Hot meals were prepared
and no person was refused lod~g or meals. A splendid organization was
effected and to our beloved brethren of Oakland Masonry is surely greatly
indebted. While I do not know the names of many of the volunteers who
gave up their time for the splendid wo~k, still I have their likenesses in my
heart and I can but express in this feeble manner the appreciation which is
due to them from all the Masons of the world. Eighteen large wagons were
secured and through the efforts of the General Relief Committee at Oakland
and the Oakland Board of Trade, both of which organizations were most
kind and generous at !ill times, sufficient provisions were secured to fill the
eighteen wagons and they started the next morning, by first boat for San
Francisco. I personally used a carriage which we loaded with bread and
canned beef, and on arriving in the stricken city food stations were established at manY points, Brother Lawler and myself distributing the provisions
we had to the people on the streets whom we met as we drove to the different
refugee carnps.
Certainly oni:i of the saddest sights I have ever seen wasduring the first
day of our relief work in San Francisco. Mothers called to us as we drove through
the streets begging for bread for their children and milk for their babies, but·
I am very glad to state that it was only on the first day of our work that we
found "the conditions to be so serious for on the following day the food had
arrived in such quantities that all cases of serious distress could be promptly
relieved.
For your information .let me detail in a few words the work of one day
in connection with the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau and that of your
Grand Master and Grand Orator who spent the entire day for fourteen consecutive days in the strick~n city. In Oakland each night the eighteen wag-

ons would be loaded with such prov1s10ns
..
as were 0 bta" bl
.
the next morning bread and other
. .
Ina e; at SIX o'clock
teams had their capacity Do to Mprovk1s1ons w_ere loaded ·until all of the
·
·
creeandh1sbl
·
tailed from the splendid committee of vo1unteers a.certa·
e executive
force
f
M . de.
. re thren to accompany each tea
d 1 k
m o our asomc
b Francisco. At six o'clock mhan ~o after the distribHtion of food in
San
ea.c mornmg as bef
+n
d
ore s.,,.te , .a~ter the tea.ms
were all loaded with fresh bread and the b '
my own carriage with bread cond
d a~lknce of the prov1s1ons, I loaded
'
ense m1 for the b b"
d
corned beef; we reached the ferry at th f t 0 f B
a ies, an cases of
as possible to be sure and catch the ear~ ~o
roadway, _Oakland,as early
in San Francisco they were dri
to Y . oat. On the amval of the teams
pou~ts where food hstations
had been
iopened. Members of the Oakvlend
an executive comm"tt
d bee
1
these food stations and also to the Oakland f
ee a
~ s~nt to
for several days. Any person be he M
Ce~ ~here food was distributed
"1pplied with the needed food. milk an~s~:ff ~~stia.n or pagan, was promptly
was promptly fed. This same co dit"
ee' m_ fa.ct every person applying
f d
n ion prevailed at
opene.d under charge of the Masoni'c F rat ern1ty.
.
The every oo station
a pomts where refugee camps had bee
d
wagons were sent to .
ll "b d
g:~t
n opene and after th f d h d
e oo a been
...., n ute these large wagons were 1 ad d .
ehildren with their personal belon ino :ndw1th old men a~d women and little
Ferry and sent across by boat tog lgs
taken many miles to the Oakland
·
P aces of safety Th
l
f
that time may be appreciated when I state tha
.
e va ue o teams at
dClllS who owned horses and wagons h d . d t some few hard hearted per&..
w o es1re to mak
wrtunate charged as high as tw t -fi
e money out of the undistrict outside the burned sectio:~o~hev;e dol~ars to take a-.fa~ily from the
noted that the teams sent from Oakla d d" ~' consequently it will be clearly
the teams reached the ferry with th n ld I a great and splendid work. After
food supplies were secured fro the o U ~teden, women and children additional
States G
m e ru
ureaus and a.gain distributed to th d"ff
overnment and relief
•
load of old men, women and children :n~ t~=i~t suppl?' depots and another
to be transferred to Oakland and la
f
belongmgs taken to the ferry
until dark and we were compelled pt ces o safety. This continued ea.ch day
,h
o cease work then
th ·
.
Jg ts, the power plants havi"ng be
d t
as e city was without
l
.
.
en es royed.
The difficulties of getting through the streets
.
awful conflagration cannot bed
"bed b .
of San Francisco after the
escn
ut 1t took h ·
·
er01c action on the part
of brave men to accomplish the splendid work
During each day I drove throu· h all
.
.
many telegrams and letters asking g
~arts of the city as I had received
1 .
my assistance to locat
· ·
. d
an d f nen s, and I am pleased to state that I
?
rmssmg re atlves
cases to send telegrams d · ·
h
was enabled m many dozens of
d ·
a VISIIlg t at r lat"
days I kept advertisements in every pa;e IV~t: fnen~ wen: safe. For
!lncerning missing people· this list f
r pu is ed callmg for mformation
and letters I had received from tho co~rse, was secured from the telegrams
One case in particular which I call e a~~~~s ~eop.le throughout this Union.
his wife who were quite feeble wh
aed is time is of an old gentleman and
.
.
. o es1r to be sent. t.o Cleveland, Ohio. The

:p.

•

228

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNI.A.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

loaves to Mission Masonic Hall,and the balancedivided up between the Hebrew
Orphan Asylum and St. Mary's Hospital. Bakers were secured through the
Masonic Relief Bureau at King Solomon's Temple and the only expense involved for which I was compelled to pay out of my funds was two hundred
and fifty dollars. This bakery continued actively for eight days and it is
needleas to state that during that period the good accomplished was of inestimable value. · I have personally advised Brother Hennings of the gratitude
of myself as Grand Mas~r and that of this Grand jurisdiction and now desire
to publically commend both his action and that of Brother Owens.
.

gentle~an was a member of all the Masonic bodies in Chicago and was desti-

tute, further-he was paralyzed from the waist down. I finally secured a good
Masonic brother who was strong and rugged and who carried on his shoulders
this paralyzed and destitute brother several miles from the district outside
the burned section to the ferry and placed him and his wife on the train and
started thein safely for Cleveland. ·
'After my inspection of all the food stations and endeavoring to relieve
the distressed at every point and search for lost and missing relatives and
. friends I returned to Oakland each night where I found Doctor Meek and his
splendid committee hard and actively at work. · During the night hundreds
of telegrams and letters were received which required l!-ttention; eastern jurisdictions were telegraphing funds and asking what assistance they could give,
and these letters and telegrams demanded answers. This work required mauy
hours of each night and it finally became necessary for me to wire to Los Angeles for my private secretary; the only expense for clerical assistance in this
great work that I endeavored to perform to the best of my ability was for
railway fare and hotel expenses of my private. secretary while in Oakland
attending to my correspondence and telegrams.

,,

It is probably unnecessary to detail the work of the Oakland Relief Bureau for the reason that the full arid complete review of the work of said Bureau will be found in full as a portion of this report, but I can only state that
I personally appreciate more than words can tell the work of the executive
committee and the many volunteers who assisted in the splendid Masonic
relief work. Many of our brethren on that executive committee and the
volunteers gave up their own business for days simply to relieve the distressed
and I assure you that they have li.terally followed their obligatioll.!I and the
Masonic teachings.

. Brother John Thompson, Master of Mission Lodge No. 169 and the corps
of volunteers at Mission Masonic Temple are entitled also to my sincere thanks
for the splendid work they performed during the trying hours immediately
following April 18th. There can be no question but that they accomplished
a wonderful amount of good and relieved hundreds of cases of distress. While
it is not possible to enter into elaborate details of the work of the brethren of
Mission Lodge still I fe!ll that in justice to them their work is entitled to great
credit and also the commendation of this Grand Lodge.

I had made an engagement as Grand Master to lay the corner stone of
the Golden Gate Commandry Asylum on April 21st, the Grand Lodge to meet
at King Solomon's Temple, San Francisco. I reached King Solomon's Temple,
located outside the burned section, exactly on time on that day but illl3tead
of opelling the Grand Lodge I endeavored to open the doors of that Temple
and sta~ another food ~tation. The next morning in King Solomon's Temple
Grand Orator Lawler and myself spent many hours, he cutting slices of bread
and I opening can~ of corned beef preparing sandWiches to feed the hundreds
of hungry people surrounding the Temple.
I desire to commend at this time Brother E . M. Percy one of our volunteers at the first meeting· held in Oakland. Brother Percy resides at 3570
Clay Street, San Francisco, outside the burned district, and he turned over
to us his residence for use as a food station and supply point and also as a hospital in taking care of the sick. Further than that he was on duty day arid
night looking after the distressed.
To Brother H. M. Owens, Past Master of Californiir Lodge No. 1, we are
greatly indebted for looking after the detailsand introducing to me.Brother
. M. Hennings of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44. Brother Owens learned from
Brother Hennings that he had a bakery that could be used; he conferred with
me and I advised that all expenses would be borne out of the funds in my pOBSe&sion, and with that understanding Brother Owens arranged·tohave the Board
of Public Works approve the oven for baking bread, notwithstanding the
fact that there were no fires permitted in the city. Flour was secured
and on the third day after the disaster the bakery was open and two
thousand l~aves distributed from it daily as follows· Five hundred
loaves to the Board of Relief at King Solomons' Hall; five hundred

229

II

It took some few hours for our brethren in San Francisco to fully realize
their position. Many were dazed by the disaster but it was not many hours
before they came bravely to the front and determined that the Masonic relief
should .stand out boldly. A meeting was promptly called at King Solomon's
Temple, presided over by Worshipful W. Frank Pier.ca, details of organization
perfected and Worshipful Brother Harry J. Lask placed in charge as Secretary.
After discussion the following were elecj;ed permanent officers of the organization: Worshipful Brother William Frank Pierce, President; Worshipful
Brother Harry Joseph Lask, Secretary; Worshipful Brother Harry Davis
Loveland, Vice-President, (Brother Loveland, on account of illness, soon after
resigned and his place was filled by the appointment of Worshipful Brother
Brilsford Pease Flint.) Worshipful Brother Otto Frank Westphal, Treasurer.
This organization developed into what I consider one of the most substantial
and satisfactory relief boards ever gotten together. I have several times examined the business methods adopted and have the highest praise for the
manner in which the work has been carried on from its inception. Complaint
was made to me that the Masters of the lodges of S~n Francisco were not giving the attention necessary to relieve the distre!!B0d and I therefore issued

230

' PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mandatory instruction.8 to the Masters to at once issue summons for every
member of their lodge to attend a. ·meeting and check .up the membership
carefully and if any members were not accounted for to go to the refugee
camps, visit each one, and ascertain if there were any Masonic brethren in
distress and if so to relieve them at once. Perhaps the officers and"inembers
of the lodges in San Francisco may feel that my letters were sharp and peremp.tory. It was not mydesire iila.nywaytocriticiae them but it was with the desire
that every Ma.son, and in fact every person connected with the Masonic organization directly or indirectly, receive the benefits of the relief that was required at that time. I felt that there were many who before April 18th had
ample funds and resources to take care of them the rest of their days, but after
that were penniless and who were so modest and despondent that· they
would not ask for relief and it was our duty to assist them above all others.
There was no particular danger from the brother or members of his family
who applied for relief but there was danger that those who through modesty
and losses occasioned by the fire were destitute and were suffering in some
tent or unprotected place in or around the refugee camps. My reports from
the San Francisco lodges were very satisfactory and I now desire to commend
the Masters and officers of those lodges for their strict compliance with my instructions.
The General Ma.sonic Relief Board of San Francisco have submitted a.
full" and complete review of the vast work performed by their perfect organization, and as this review is a portion of this report and will be in the hands of
every member of the Grand Lodge it is unnecessary probably for me to recapitulate. the work accomplished, but I feel it my duty to state that the
President, Worshipful Brother W. Frank Pierce and his good wife have both
given up their time and personal possessions simply to aid the distressed and.
to comfort the a.ffiicted and that since the disaster Brother Pierce has done
nothing but give the General Ma.sonic Relief Board his entire time and attention.
For the other members of the · executive committee and the
officers · of said committee who have so loyally and devotedly
ministered to the wants. of those of. our Fraternity requiring it I
ucan only report that from my investigation they have accomplished all that
cold be desired. In times of trouble such as we have experienced in thisgrea.t
state during the past few months it brings forth men and we
should give thanks that men of courage and determination were found in
S1J.n Francisco who were willing to give up their time for those who required
relief and advice. For Brother Harry J. Lask, the efficient Secretary of the
Board, I would state that in my judgment he was the right man forthe pla.r,e.
He is thorough, systematic, painstaking and reliable, and his books and
records speak volumes for his splendid executive ability. In the past five
months I have had a great deal of correspondence with Brother Lask, particularly in connection with inquiries from other jurisdictions concerning
necessary relief and in every case the investigation has been thorough and
complete, and relief has been given promptly. Some sixty days ago. I re-

GRAND· LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

·.231

ceived info!'JJlation t);Utt a family residing in San ·Francisco-a woman with
five little children'........:had applied to the General Relief Board, not Masonic,
for assistance and· the same had not been secured. I requested Brother Lask
to carefully and promptly investigate the case and he found that the family
were without clothing and were sleeping on the floor. As I had funds in my
cbarge given me by different jurisdictions to relieve the distressed be they
Masonic or otherwise, I deemed it my duty to grant the required relief although the family had no Ma.sonic connections. Proper clothing, furniture
&nd provisions were supplied, and while throughout this relief work I have
111deavored to be guided by Masonic rules and regulations I have as yet to
refuse one worthy case where it proved to be a Mason out of standing or some
one of Masonic connection that required some assistance. I ·am veri thankful
to some of our jurisdictions that in entrusting relief funds to me instructions
were given to dispose of it as I deemed best and proper, consequently in
every worthy case of a suspended Ma.son I have granted immediate relief.
In submitting this report I can state that no case of any kind, Masonic or
91therwise, brought to my .attention where relief was desired was refused by
me and I am indebted for the opportunities· of extending relief to those outside of the Fraternity and those out of standing to some of our sister juri,s..;
dictions who issued instructions that I should relieve the distreSBed be they
14a.sons or not.
While the work in San Francisco and Oakland required my careful attention I was not unmindful of the fact that other portions of our state .had
been severely a.ffiicted, the most important points where damagewasreported
t'o be severe were San Jose and Santa Rosa.. I made prorp.pt inquiries and
19Certained that relief was required at once. Telegrams were promptly sent
by me to both cities instructing them to extend any relief required and funds
would be promptly sent. Relief bureaus were established at both San Jose
and Santa Rosa. and I have kept in touch with the situation at all times and
a.m glad to state that relief has been granted promptly in every case and ample
funds have been kept on hand in both cities to provide for all. The brethren
of Santa Rosa. made a most urgent appeal that I visit that city and look
over the situaton and I was exceedingly glad that I did for I believe that I
~rought new courage to our discouraied brethren of that little city. Of course
our brethren of San Francisco were severely smitten but they were not, in
my judgment, a comparison to that prosperous little city of San~ Rosa where
every business house was gone and the merchants stared at the ruins of their
once prosperous business, and many who were independent on the night of
April 17th were bankrupt the next day. To give some idea of the situation
I had a number of photographs prepared showing the condition of the city
at the time of my visit, the same being submitted herewith:
.
On the afternoon of the day of my visit a. general meeting of all the Masonic
brethren of the city was called and we talked over the financial situation for
a long time. The brethren had sold their old property and liad practically
..,mpleted their new 1:'emple. Every dollar that they coµJ.d raise had been

232

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

THE HAvoe WROUGHT

AT SANTA ROSA, CAL .

•

Opera House and Post Office, Oppoeite Masonic Temple,
New Masonic Temple, approaching completion: to have been dedicated
June 2.5, 1906. Nearly t.50,000 had been expended on the building; entirely ru.ined by the earthquake.
.

Every hotel, bank and busineH house ruined.

Busine8s pot"tion· of City entirely destroyed by earthq11ake and fire.

233

234

GRAND LOOOE OF CALIFORNIA.

· PROCEEDINGS OF THE

invested in the new building and t_li.ey)iad re~ived ad':ances from metp.be'rs
of the Fraternity which amounted to six thousand dollars and owed ~ret~ren
contractors for different portlom!' of· the building legal and moral obligatiollll
a.mounting to nine thousand dollars; hence the situation was that the:v:were
owne~ of a lot with a. fifty thousand dollar building entirely demohs~ed
and were fifteen thousand dollars in debt to the members· of the Fraten:uty.
To say that our brethren were discoura,ged a.t that tin;ie hardly .does the situation justice, but I spoke a.s encouragingly a.s poBS1ble ~nd !Ilformed ~hem
that while I had been given funds for the relief of the distressed I believed
that relief should be granted. the members of the. Fraternity who
had advanced funds and members of the Fraternity who were contractors on the building a.nd who were ruined by the disaster. I i~edia.tely
returned to San Francisco a.nd called into .consultation the follow!Ilg G~nd
Lodge officers: Edward H. Ha.rt,~Deputy Grand Master; George M. Penne,
Senior Grand Warden; Reuben H. Lloyd, Junior Grand Warden; E. Coleman!
Grand Treasurer; George :rohnson, Grand Secretary; Frank M. Angellotti
Edmund C. Atkinson, Charles L .. Patton, Thomas Fliat,.Orrin S. ·J:Ienderson
and J. B Stevens, Pa.st Grand Masters; Jacob H. Neff, Pa.st· Jumor Gni:nd
Warden; and J W Anderson, Pa.st Grand Lecturer, a.nd after deba.~1ng
for some time itwasthought that it was our duty to provide for the cla.1mB
of the brethren, and fifteen thousand dollars was paid to the Treasurer of
Santa. Rosa. Lodge No. 57 to. meet the obligations contni.cted by the brethren
of Santa. Rosa to members of the Fraternity This wa.s simply done to ~ve ·
them from absolute ruin. Feeling that the bankers and business men who
at ordinary times would be able to assist in rebuilding the beautiful city ?f
•Santa. Rosa. were now in no condition to assist and further that every available cent they could gather together would be required to open up their own
busine&S a.gs.in I wrote many of our sister Jurisdictions who ha.d fund.s. on
hand which they were holding pending my advices a.nd stated the c~nd1t~on
of the brethren of Santa Rosa and asked that if they deemed the situation
one which should receive assistance and felt they should assist in the rebuilding of the Temple I would be glad to be a.d:Vised. Persona.~y. I a.m strongly
a.gs.inst the Grand Lodge favoring subscript10ns for the rebm~dlllg. of T~mples
a.nd would oppose such a. project at a.ny other ti,me but the s1tua.ti~n 1~ portions of our state wa.8 entirely different a.nd if relief was ever reqmred it was
a.t Santa Rosa.. Some of our sister jurisdictions advised that they believed
as I did but in this case the situation was different a.nd they would assist
if their Grand Lodge would consent, but in many other jurisdictions .immediate
response was sent a.nd one of the grea.(Grand Jurisdictions of thIS country
telegraphed authorizing me to draw for five thousand dollars for the benefit of
Santa Rosa.. I have received large subscriptions for this city a.nd have thus
fa.r advanced them but ten thousand dollars towards the rebuilding of. the
Temple.
Immediately upon my return to my home in Los Angele8 after completing
the details of the orga.nie:a.tion of relief bureaus a.t different pointsJ addressed

. 235

a. letter to the Master and ·secretary of every lodge located in or near the
Btricken .d istrict asking as to the condition of the brethren of their lodges
and Ma.sons of other jurisdictions, advising that immediate relief should be
given in every case arid that it was my desire that careful and immediate
investigation be made so that all distress should be relieved promptly. Fur·
thermore that in a case of doubt whether a brothtfr might be in standing
it were better to err ·and grant relief rather than to· stand on strict Ma.sonic
rules and regulations. Through this vs.st' correspondence received in reply
I have been in close touch with the situation· throughout the entire district,
·covering some two hundred miles in length; each and every case has received
my serious and thoughtful consideration and where I deemed it necessary
request has been ma.de for some brother in whom I had absolute confidence
to make a careful investigation and submit the facts to me. This rendered
it possible for me to assist every Lodge and every worthy case throughout
the entire district and I know of no request made upon me that has not
received immediate attention. Many of our sister jurisdictions have written
or telegraphed me asking that relief be extended to certs.in brethren of their
· iurisdiction, which requests have had attention by telegram or by first mail.
Throughout Lake and Sonoma. Counties the loss was very serious, consequently
a great deal of my time ha.s been taken up in investigating worthy cases
~ughout both of these Counties, but I feel at this time that there is ·no
reason why there shoµld be a.ny suffering at a.ny point provided the Masters
and members of the Lodges have performed their duty as true Ma.sons.

'

The fire in San Francisco was so very disastrous that it left hundreds
of thousands homeless, the consequence being that former residents of San
l'ra.ncisco have scattered throughout the state and many lodges h~ve been
called upon to assist. Where information ha.s been given to me I have immesfia.tely reimbursed every Lodge. In Los Angeles a relief bureau was promptly
tta.rted and every member in good standing of all the lodges in the city called
upon to donate one dollar towards the fund ; this resulted in the accumulation of something between three and four thousand dollars which ha.s been
used to splendid advantage and is being used daily for the relief of the disf;ressed Ma.sons, their Wives, widows and orphans, who formerly lived in
8a.n Francisco but are now residing in Los Angeles. As before stated a review
of the work performed by the San Francisco a.nd Oakland relief burea.UI! ha.s
been ma.de a. part of this report, and in addition I have requested the Secretaries of the relief boards at Sacramento, San Jose, Santa. Rosa, Alameda a.nd
Los Angeles to submit reports a.nd the same are included with this document.
I feel that the work performed by all the Boards ha.s been conducive of a. gea.t
•ount.of good and it is my earnest desire that at the next stated meeting
of the lodges in this state the great· work of relief be explained fully to our
lrethren of this Grand Jurisdiction. Probably there has never been a disuter in our time1 that ha.s covered such a. scope of territory. Of course the
loai of life as compared to the property value wa.s infinitesimally small, but
.oubtedly no such loss has ev~i ileen sustained in the United States as was

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that incident to the disaster of last April. During my recent official visits
to .lodges of this jurisdiction it seemed to be the general opinion of our brethren
that the work of relief had ceased, but I assure you that the work has really
just commenced and it has been my fear that the coming winter would show
that more actual relief will be required than at any time since the disaster.
Not' a day passes but s(J[Ile serious case is brought to my attention; destitute
widows and brethren require clothing, food and general supplies. Many
families have no furniture whatever and they must be provided with some
few comforts for the coming winter. After mature and thoughtful deliberation I have investigated the situation throughout all the districts of the state.
and have apportioned the funds at my disposal to every relief bure~u. tha~ _I
believe will require additional funds <;luring the coming winter, and it 1s w1tn
great pleasure that I inform you that thereisnota relief bureau in this state
that has not ample funds on hand to meet fully the needs of our distressed
during the winter months. While I have provided for every case called: to
my attention I have harvested my resources to some extent for the commg
winter and it is· certainly a satisfaction to be able to report that each relief
bureau has been apportioned sufficient funds so that they can see that our
brethren will be well and satisfactorily provided for months to come.

Thi~ report· has been brought down to as near the date of the meetin~
of the Grand Lodge as possible. As my term of office a11 Grand Master 1s
about to expire I assure you that the work of relief has not ceased and will
not cease for many months to come,.but it was necessary for me to submit to
you a full and complete statement of the work performed and particularly
a correct and complete financial statement showing every dollar received by
me and . the matter of its expenditure.
During the early days of the relief work it became apparent that clothing
of all kinds would be required, particularly in view of the fact that a great
quantity of the old clothing shipped by different relief committees in this
and other states was unfit for use. On my return to Los Ange~es I purchased
at the lowest cash prices large qul\olltities ·of boots, shoes, underclothing and
outside clothiiig for men, women and children, to the amount of five thousand,
three hundred twenty-seven and 83-100 Dollars; the s~ppliesbeingshipped to
San Francisco whenever necessities demanded it or until the commi.ttee there
was enabled by the reopening of the wholesale houses of that city to purchase
in open market at reduced rates the required clothing to conduct their supply
bureau in a proper and systematic manner. I might add for your information
that the General Masonic Relief Board under the supervision of Worshipful
Brother W. Frank Pierce conducts a full clothing bureau,"andevery article of any
kind or character needed by members or" the Fraternity is promptly supplied
on demand.
And now my brethren I have submitted to some slight extent the details
of this great work of relief and I realize full well the great responsibility that
was thrown upon me and it has been my sincere regret that my health was

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

237

not of the best, notwithstanding this fact I have endeavored in every way
to faithfully carry out the trust imposed. On reviewing the entire situation
I feel that the work of the Masonic Fraternity will stand out boldly as being
well and ably performed. There may be criticisms but in my judgment there
can be no just criticism for among the many committees at work they were
all able, willing and anxious to serve our brethren. While mistakes have been
made I am sure they were not intentional but occurred through some mis11.nderstanding.
During the past five months fully one-half of my time has been devoted
to relief work, the correspondence and telegrams received and sent being as
follows : Telegrams received, 179; telegrams 8ent, 115; letters received, 922;
letters sent, 1123; total telegrams and letters received and sent, 2339. Some
cases required great thought, study and determination as to the best procedure. but I am sure that I have endeavored to bestow thecharitygiven and inSrusted to me to the best of my ability. I little thought when I assumed
the position of Grand Master that such a responsibility would be forced upon
my ·shoulders but I am glad that my physical ability was sufficient to do the
work and if I have performed my duties satisfactorily to the brethren of the
Grand jurisdictionB of this world who have contributed so nobly, then I rup
1t1totisfied. As reports of the various bureaus of relief have reached my hands
it has been thought necessary to send additional funds in order that each may
be fully protected (as before stated in this report, for the winter) these bureaus
are notably Sacramento, $1000.00; Los. Angeles $3000.00; San Francisco
f5647.17 making a total of $100,000.00 in cash and supplies furnished the
General Relief Board of San Francisco,. and while the cash now remaining in
my han'd.s has been materially reduced, all our relief bureaus are in splendid
P!hape to provide for the relief required for many months to come. .
·
Immediately following this address will be found a detailed financial
1tatement showing every dollarreceived by me from the various Grand Jurisdictions throughout the world, and also a statement showing the funds re6eived by our Grand Secretary, Very Worshipful George Johnson, in amount
•2551.00 and by him turned over to me September lat, 1906. It was my
..tention to mention particularly the generosity of certain of our sister jurislllictions but on reviewing t1!-e situation I find that all of these great jurisdictions are entitled to our deepest and most sinceregratitude. Telegrams and letters reached me from all over this world asking what they could do to aid CaliIDrnia, and particularly San Francisco, who in the hour of need of other.states
1111.dnations wasalwaysthe first to send relief andthiswasthefirstopportunity
that they had to repay the brethren of the Golden State fortheir generosity
!Which hadbeenpouredforth by the brethren of this state on many, many oclasions. During June last it was my pleasure while travelling throttgh the
Illa.stern states to meet many Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries of sister
lluisdictions and I had the great satisfaction of thanking them personally
for their kindness to our grand Jurisdiction, and it was a source of happiness
to me that I received from their lips words of praise forthebraveryof the men
of California and their generosity when other jurisdictionB neededrelief.

238

PROCEEDINGS OF TH.E

Every dollar received by me has been acknowle<;lged by a personal letter
It is my intention to mail to eveIJ< Grand Jurisdiction and to every Lodge,
and also to each brother contributing funds,"a:copy of this report,. for I feel
tha1; they are justly and fully entitled to know how the funds intrusted to my
care:have been disbursed. I believe I have mentioned in this report that many
of the Grand Jurisdictions"sent meJunds to be disposed of as I deemed best
and proper; that I was to be the custodian of the!!e funds and to disburse
them to:thoseworthyanddeserving cases, be they masons or not, requiring relief hencetheworkaccomplishedhasbeen greaterthanhadit been confined to
our Fraternity alone. During the days immediately following the disaster
funds were sent to me by telegram, registered mail and by bank draft, but
I have endeavored to keep the accounts absolutely correct and have tried
to- acknowledge to the proper jurisdictions every dollar received, but if this
has not been done proper acknowledgment will be shown in this report. In
the reports of other bureaus it will be noted that large contributions have been
made direct to them and it is my idea that a copy of this full and complete
report should be mailed to these contributing bodies. Certainly any brother,
anyLodge, anyCommandery, Chapter, Scottish Rite organization, or Grand
Jurisdiction contributing to this fund is entitled to a full, clearandcorrect
statement of how the money has been disbursed and in justice to them and
in order that our record shall be perfectly clear, it is my intention that this
report shall be sent broadcast, particularly to every contributor.
Throughout the entire relief work I have impressed upon all the absolute ·importance of economy in expenses, and although a very. large amount
of funds has been handled by me, throughout my personal relief work and
tb.e correspondence incident thereto has been an item of great expense it
has not been charged in any way in this report, for I believed the funds were
given me for relief and I have tried to follow these instructions very carefully.
From the financial statement following you will note the total receipts,
cash passing through my hands, aggregated in amount $225,692.10 total
expenditures, $174,814.85; balance on hand, $50,877.25; according to my
bank book the following figures are shown: Balance, $95,028.32; checks
outstanding, $42,960. 72; balance $52,087. 72. This shows a surplus apparently
unaccounted for of $1,190.35. I have carefully checked up every communication received, all telegrams, and interviewed the managers of the telegraph
offices of Oakland and Los Angeles and every dollar so far as I can learn has
been accounted for in my financial statement. Of course during the first
few days immediately following the disaster telegrams were sent to me at
so many different points that I may have received funds by wire or otherwise
which I have failed to keep an accoun{ of, but it has not been possible to
locate it in any way notwithstanding that every possible action has been·
taken by inyself and secretary. Should it develop hereafter that any relief
funds were transmitted to me and have not been acknowledged it will be

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

239

IDY pleasure to immediately investigate and make proper acknowledirnent.
All I can state, however, is that our records have been carefully examined
and show a surplus apparently unaccounted for"of $1,190.35.
In looking over the reports of the San Francisco, Oakland and Los Angeles bureaus of relief it appears that quite large amounts of money were
sent to them independent of that handled by me and in round figures I would
state that over three hundred and fifteen thousand dollars has been received
eithe; by the Grand Master or relief bureaus for the purpose of aiding the
distressed incident to the disaster of last April.

And finally my brethren I trust that this relief work which I have endeavored to supervise and that of the many relief bureaus of this state will
meet with your entire satisfaction. While it has been a great responsibility
I shall be more than satisfied and shall be pleased to transfer .the work to
my suqcessor if I have the satisfaction of knowing that this responsibility
and the work performed meets with your entire approval and approbation.
MoTLEY HEwEs FLINT,

· Grand Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

241

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

240

May 7,

ITEMIZED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS

ALABAMA.
April 27,
May 1,
14,
16,
June 21,

Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
Ben M. Jacobs, Deputy G. M.------- - - Subordina.te Lodges of State, by telegram
received from Ben M. Jacobs, Dep. G. M.
Subordinate Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchan~ received from Ben M. Jaco~s~-~~~

Sub~din~L~::S~f-Sta.~~rbyM-N~/· bx-

$600.00
700 .00
500.00

change receivt:d from Ben · a.co s,
1000 .00
Deputy Grand Maater,-- - - - --------Subordina.te Lodges of State by N. Y. exchange received from Ben, M. Jacobs, Dep 500.00.
uty G. M. ----- -- -- - - --- - --------$3300.00

ARIZONA.
100.00
50.00
. 20.00
250.00
50 .00
200.00
100.00
50.00
250.00

50 .00
50.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
4.00
400.00
350.00
250.00

ARIZONA - Continued.
Flagstaff Lodge No. 7, Flagstaff, by check
received from E. S. Miller, Secretary __ _
Aztla.n Lodge No. 1, Prescott, by Los
Angeles exchange. received from MorriH
Goldwater, Secretary, --------------

100.00
100.00
$2524.00 .

ARKANSAS.
June 5,

Grand Lodge, by New York Exchange received from C. E. Rosenbaum, Grand
Treasurer ____________ ------------ __ _

602.50
602.50

CALIFORNIA.
Buena Park Lodge No.357,Buene.Park, by
check received from C. H . Mann, Sec'y, $ 25.00
April 24, Received from A. H. Noyes, Borel, Cal., __
5.00
April 27, Chico Lodge No. 111, Chico, by coin, received from A. L. N euba.rth, Secretary_
100 .00
Humboldt Lodge No. 79, Eureka, by P. 0.
May 10,
money order,
received from J. B.. Brown,_
Secretary,
__________________________
100.00
Aprll 27, Hornitos Lodge No. 98, Hornitos, by WellsFargo order, received from Wm. Adams,
20,00
_______ _
Secretary, ----------------.
Received from F. J. Zeehandela.ar, Los
May 3,
50.00
Angeles, by check, ..----------------150.00 •
April 27, Oxnard Lodge No. 341, Oxnard, by instructions to draw, received from T. E.
150.00
Walker, Secretary, ----------- ----- -May 21, Pomona Lodge No. 246, Pomona, _____ ___
100.00
25.00
Pomona Chapter No. 76, R. A. M. Pomona,
Received by Los Angeles exchange from E. H.
· • · Welch, W. M.
May 7,
Santa Barbara. Lodge No. 192, Santa
Barbara, by Los Angeles exchange, re200 . 00
ceived from C. 0. Garretson, Secretary,~
April 24, By telegraphic instructions to draw, received from Ed. Stanton, Avalon, Cal. ___ _
25 .00
April 23, San Diego Lodge No.. 35, San Diego, by
telegraphic instructions. to draw, received from Herbert A. Crogan, Master,
150.00
April 21 Santa .Ana Lod~e No. 241, by 1IlBtructions
to draw, received from F. W. Mansur,
100.00
W. M. ------------- --- ------------May 1,
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307, Santa Monica
100.00
Visiting brethern of Santa Monica, _____ _
15.00
Received by check from J. H. Jackson, Secretary
May 3,
Sanger Lodge No. 316, Sanger, by P. 0.
money order, received from One Hayward, Secretary,____________________
65.00
April 23, Olive Branch Lodge No. 269, Tula.re, by
gold, received from W. B. Cartmill, W. M. · 150.00
May 8,

242
May 29,
June 7,

July 18,
July 26,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
CALIFORNIA - Continued.
Received from Mary B. Horton, Bishop,
Cal., by P. O. money order, _-- ------Received from Ira .B. Bennet, ~y P. 0:
money order, received from One Hayward, Secretary Sanger Lodge No. 316,·
Sanger, - ------------- - --- -- ------;--Surprise Valley Lo~ge No. 23.'t_ Cedarville,
by currency received from T. H. Johnstone; Secretary, -------------------Unity Lodge No. 368, Glend$\.le, by check,
received from Geo. U. Moyse, W. M. __

10.00

April 23, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
·to draw, received from Charles W. Johnson, Grand· Master. ---------------~
500.00
May 7,
Subordinate Lodges of State, by New York
exchange, received from Wilber P.
Webster, Grand Secretary, _________ _
1000.00
May 24, Lodges 'of State, by New York exchange,
received from Wilber P. Webster, G. ~. 1000 .000
June 9,
Lodges of State, by New York exchanl!'.e.
reeeived from Wilber P. Webster,G. Secyy;
350.00
April 28, Es.cambia. Lodge No. 15, Pensacola, by
mstructions to draw draft, received
from W. G. Dailey, Secretary, _______ _
25,00
July 30, Lod~es of State, by N. Y. - exchange, received from W. P. Webster, Grand
Secretary, -------------------------121. 73

25.00
100.00

50.00

----- $1565 .00

COLORADO
April 23, Grand Lodge, b:y draft, --------------May ;, Subordinate Loages of State N. Y. exchange ---- - ---------- -- ---~---------June 25 Subordinate Lodges of State, by San Fran'
cisco exchange, ---------------------Received fro~ C. H. Jacobson, Grand Secretary,
April 24 Union Lodge No. 7, Denver, b~ telegraphic
'
instructions to draw, received from
H. W. Hannum, Secretary __ ___ ___ _ _
1
April 28, Leadville Lodge No. __ , Leadville, by ~le­
graphic. instructions to draw, received
from H. W. Woodward, Secretary,-.- ---April 26, .Cripple Creek Lodge No. 110, notice f:<>
draw draft, received from G. R. Lewis
• Past Master, -----------;-- - --- - - - - - -Mt. Pisgah Lodge No. 96, Cripple Creek,. by
telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from John E. Rinker, Master,------ -.Trinidad Lodge No. 89, by .telegraphic
instructions to draw, received from
Lodge, - --- -- ------- - -------- - ----- Aug. 6,' Masons of State, by San Francisco exchange
received from C. H. Jacobson, Grand
Secretary,
--- - --------- -- --- - -·
CONNECTICUT.

243

FLOR.IDA

500 . 00
2928.00
306.70

..

100.00

$2996 . 73

OEOR.OIA.
May 21,

Masons of State, by check, received from
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer, _______ _
June 6,
Masons of State, by check, received from
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer, _____ _
April 24, Wm. Landrum Lodge No. __ , Savannah,
by telegraphic transfer, received from
N. B. F. Close, of said Lodge, ___ __ ___
August 7, Masons of State, by check received from
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer, ____ __
Sept. 11, Masons of StJ1.te, by check received from
J. M. Rushin, Grand Treasurer, _____ _

100.00

50.00
50.00

$750.00

500.00
50 .00
200.68

5.00

100.00

$1505.68

HAWAII.
20.00

-----

Masons of State, by New York exchange, 1541.40
May 3,
9,
Masons of State, by New York exchange, 1400.00
16 Masons of State, by New York exchange,
1000.00
Received from Miles W. Graves, Grand Treas. - -'----DELAWARE.
Lodges of State, by instr:uctio~s to draw
draft, received from Levm Irvmg Handy,
Grand Master, - - ------------ - - - - - --- $1000 . 00
July 11,_ Lodges of State, by instr:uctio~ to draw
draft, received from Levm Irvmg Handy,
836.85
Grand Master., - - --- - -- - ---- - - --- - ---

April 22, Hawaiian l:.odge No. 21, Honolulu, by cable
instructions to draw received from
Sr.reckles Bank, -------------------- $4500.00
May 16, Pacific
Lodge No. 822, Honolulu, by draft
drawn against Lodge, _______________ _
2000.00
May 17, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo, by N. Y.
exchange received from E. I. Spalding,
P. M. -----------------------------500.0

4154.70

3941.40

May 7,

$7000.00

IDAHO.
May 9,

$1836.85

•

Bethany Lodge No. 21, Shoshone, _____ _
King SOiomon Lodge No. 27, Montpelier, __
Boise Lodge l'fo. 2; Boise, _______ _____ __
By New York exchange, received from J. W.
Robiruion, Grand Master,

25.00
100.00
250.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

244

IDAHO - Continued.
April 25, Nez Perces Lodge, No. 10 Lewiston, bl
tele~phic transfer from J. J. Randal,

w. .' -----------------------------

250.0)

~rs;:lli~d~~ 1fr-. --o~.-Tui~-F~~-by

161.00

April 28, Benevolent Lodge No. 38, St. Anthony,
~ certified check, received from M. M.
Ma.y 2,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

New York exchange, received from
G.D. Akin W. M·----------------- - -April 26, Wardner Qge No. 34, Wardner, by ~legraphic instructions to draw, received
from Wardner Lodge, ---------------July 30, Cyrus Chapter No. 2, R. A. M., Silver
City, by Sa.n Francisco exchan~, received from R. H. J.eonn.rd, Jr., c y,_

115.00
75.00
50.00

ILLINOIS.

April 28, Grand Lodge, by teli:phic. instruction
to draw, received rom C. E. Allen,
Grand Master, ----- - - -·- ----·--------- $1000.00
Grand Lodge, by telegraphic transfer from
Ma.y 4,
2500 .00
L. A. Godde.rd, Grand Treasurer, ______
Ma.y 10, Grand Lodge, by telegr'1hic transfer froni
2500 .00
L. A. Godde.rd, Gran Tree.surer, ______
Ma.y 11, Grand Lodge, by telegra.dhic Transfer from
1200.00
L. A. Godde.rd, Gran Tree.surer, ______
Ma.y 22, Grand Lodge, h:r telegra./hic transfer from
900.00
L. A. Godde.rd, Gran Treasurer, __ _: ___
Ma.y 29, Grand· Lodge, by telegr'1hic transfer from
565.00
L. A. Godde.rd, Gran Treasurer, - --.--~
June 20, Ma.sons of State, by N. Y. exchange, received
317 . 25
from L. A. Goddard, Grand T~urer,_ Ma.sons of State, bL Los Angeles E'.xchange,
July 5,
received from . A. Godde.rd, Grand
14 .00
Treasurer, ___ -- -- -- --- - -- -- -------- April 23, American Lodge U. D. Chirago, ~ P. 0.
money order received from
rry D.
25.00
Davisson, Secretary, ------------ - ---Auburn Park Lod~e No. 789, Chica.i, by
May 2,
P. 0. money or er, received from enry
50 .00
Seitz, Treasurer, ---- ----------r----Brighton Park Lodge No. 854, Chica.go,
by P. 0. money order, received from
50.00
Jl!B. MacLa.ughlin, Secretary,-----~---April 27, Bea.con Lights Lodge No. 784, Chica.rv,
check received from F. W. McNa.l y,
25.00
. M. ----~-------- - --------------April 26, Chester Lodge No. 72, Chester, by telegra.J>hic instructions to draw from Ches25.00
ter Lodge, -------------------------28, Columbia. Lodge No. 474, Columbia., bl,
draft received through J . H. C. Dill,
15.00
Grand Secretary, --- - - -------- -- -----

W

1026.00

ILLINOIS - Continued.
April 26, Columbian Lod8e No. 819, Chica.~o by
check receive from Fred M. G er:zion,
Secretary ------------------ --------Ma.y 1,
D. C. Cregier Lodge No. 643, Chica.80 by
check, received from Fred R . Han ri'ip
Secretary --------------------------~
Ma.y 5,
Chica.go Lodge No. 437, Chica.go, by check
Received from Na.than Hefter, Secretary,
April 27, Ea.st st. 1..oID.s· Lodr No. 504, by draft
received from R. . Paschal, Secretary;
May 3,
Fides Lodge No. 842, Chii:a.go, by New
York exchange, received rom Martin
Anderson, Secretary, ---------------April 25, Gothic Lod~e No. 852, Ea.st St. Louis, bh
Tree.surer s warrant, received throug
J. H. C. Dill, Grand Secretary, ____ ____
May 3,
Rumbolt Pa.r~ Lodge No. 813, Chica.go, by
check received from John C. Groetzin-

April 26,
May 4,
Ma.y 3,
April 26,
Ma.y 4,
Ma.y 1,
April 27,
April 28,
April 25,
May 1,
May 1,
May 8,

iufwj~~i~cre1i2!ge--N;~-3ii~-Chl~g~,--by

telegra.p'fnc transfer from W. N. Eckharlt,
tree.surer, _____ ------ _____ ------ _____
Lawn Lodge No. &15, Chica.go, by express
money order received from J. R. Hayden,
Secrets.~---------------------- - --Lakeside
dge No. 739, Chica.go, bk
cashier's check received from J. Mee
Finley, Secretary, ----------------- - Lincoln Pa.r~ Lodge No. 611, Chica.go, by
draft received from P. F. W. Kehling,
W. M. -----------------------~----Norma.I Park Lodge No. 797, Chicag:o
Lodge voucher, received from B. .
son, W. M., ________ : _______________
Olympia. Lodge No. 864, Chica.go, by Lod/ce
voucher received from E. 0. Wal o
W. M. ---------------------------~
Plea.ides Lodge No. 478, Chica.go, by check
received from C. G. Haebich, Tree.surer
Rock River Lodfie No. 612, Sterling by'
draft received rom John W. Niles,' Secreta.ry _____ -------------·-----------Siloam Lodge No. 780, Chica.go, by e{!hZ
money order received from F. 0.
·-·
tensen, Treasurer, ------------------Wright's Grove Lodge No. 779, Chica.~
by cashier's check received from R. '.
Jones,. W. M. ---------------------York Cha.kter No. 148, R. A. M. Chica.re,
~ chec received from Frank E. Loe e,
. H. P. ---·-----------------------Rob't Morris Chapter 0. E. S. Ea.st St.
Louis,
N. Y. exchange, received from
Paul
. Alet, ---------------------

1i[.

100.00
100.00
200 .00
100.00

I 39 .00
100 .00
50 .00
100.00
25 .00
25.00
100.00

w· - 100 .00

W

50 .00
25.00 .
25.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
20.00

245

246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

May 10,
May 23,
July 16,
Aug. 4,

ILLINOIS - Continued.
Boulevard Lodge No. 822, Chicago, by
P. 0. money order, received from W. H.
Reid, Secretary --------------------Oriental Lodge No. 33, Chicago, by check
received from Charles Catlin, Secretary,
Masons of State, by Los Angeles exchange
received from L. A. Goddard, Grand
Treasurer, -------------------------Masons of State, by Los· Angeles exchange
received from L. A. Goddard, Grand
Treasurer, ------- - ---------- - -------

May 4,
25 . 00
June 2,
50.00
June 4,
10.00

12,

1341.00
1196. 75

-----

2537.75

INDIAN TER.R.ITOR.Y. •
April 29, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic ittstructions
to draw, received from J, S. Murrow,
Grand Secretary, -------------------April 24, Scottish Rite Bodies; by telegraphic instructions to draw, received from Wm.
Busby, South McAlester, _____________ _

$100.00
1000.00
$1100.00

May 15,
May 16,
May 21,
May 28,
May 29,

Lod~es

of State, by N. Y. exchange received from Newton R. Parvin, Grand
Secretary,
Lod~ of State, by N. Y. exchange; received from Newton R. Parvin, Grand
Secretary --- -- ----~--- - --- ------- --­
Lod~es of State, by N." Y. exchange, received from Newton R. Parvin, Grand
Secretary, --- -- --- ------- -- ---- --- -Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exehange, received from Newton R. Parvin, Grand
Secretary, ----------------- --------Lodges of State, by N, Y. exchange, received
from Newton R. Parvin, Grand Secretary, - ---------------------------Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, received
from Newton R. Parvin, Grand Secret.ary, ----- - - ------ - --~------- -- - --

-------------------r------

5.00

April 26, Grand Lodge, by voucher · received from
Albert K. Wi..ISon, Grand Secretary, __ _ $500 . 00
,April 24, Great Bend Lodge No. 15, Great Bend, ____
50 .00
Emporia Lodge No. 12, Emporia, __ ____ _
50.00
Rismg Sun Lodge No. 8, Fort Scott, _____ _
25.00
Mount Nebo Chapter No. 36, R. A. M.,
Great Bend, ____ __ _ ·---------------100.00
By telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary, __ _
.April 26, Ellinwood lodge No. 217, Ellinwood, __ _
50.00
Union Lod~e No. 7, Junction City, _____ _
50.00
By telegraphic mstructions to draw, re-ceived
from Albert K. Welson, Grand Secretary,
100.00
iApril 29, Orient Lods!:e No. 51, Topeka, _____._____
Eminence Lodge No. 205, Eskridge,____ _
50.00
Kansas Lodge No. 307, Herington,______
2.5.00
10.00
Greenwood Lodge No. 163,· Fall.River,___
By telegraphic instructions to draw, received
from ·Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary.
April 27, Linwood Lodge No. 241, Linwood, contribution received from. Andrew T.
Christie, Secretary, ______ _- ----- -~ - 15 .00
May 5,
Downs Lodge No. 204, Downs, by N. Y.
exchange, received from George M.
25.00
April 26, Be1fe~~' c8h~;~!~No~-69,-R.-A~-M.-B-elle:
vill~, by teleg.raphic instructions to draw
received from National Bank of Belleville, ______ __ _-------- -- ______ _____ _
50.00

.

IOWA.
May 7,

25.00

KANSAS.
$10648.25

Masons of State, .by Chicago exchange, received from A. W. Emery, Grand Master,
Grand Lodge, by New York exchange, received from A. W. Emery, Gra_nd Master,

10 . 00

$4540.00

18.00

INDIANA.
May 4,

IOWA - Continued.
Centennial Lodge No. 373, Grant, by
Chicago exchange, receive:i from George
T. Carey, Secretary, ---------------Ashlar Lodge No. 111, Fort Dodge, by
Chicago exchange, received from Henry
A. Cook, Secretary, ---- ----- ------Salem Lodge No. 17, Salem, by N. Y. exchange, received from E. A. Wilnuth,
Secretary, ----------- ----- ----~-----

247

350.00
1000 .00

'-

$1100.00
650 . 00
1000 . 00
1000.00
500 .00

KENTUCKY.
May 2,
Grand Lodge, by Chicago exciui:Yge, _____ _ $1000.00
May 14, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exch&nge, _____ _ 1000 .00
June 4,. Grand Lodge, by New York exchange, __ _
500 .00
Received from John H. Leathers, Grand Treasurer.
April 26, D~li~t Lodge No. 760, Louisville, by

W. G~e;~;~n~~· -~~~~i~~~--f~~~-~~~~

25 . 00

248

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA • .

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

KENTUCKY - Continued.
April 29, Providence Lodge No. 148, Providence, by
N. Y. exchange, received from T. T.
M:orris J VV. - ------- - --- - --------May 21, Kosair Te~ple, A. A. 0. N. M:. S, Louisville by N. Y. exchange, received from
Wm'. J. VVatkins, Recorder, _________ _
St. George Lodge No. 239, Louisville, by
July 2,
N. Y. exchange, received from S. A.
Slaughter, Treasurer, - - -- - ---------July 16, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, received
from John H. Leathers, Grand Treasurer ------- - - - -- - ---- - ------------July 18, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange re
ceived from John H . Leathers, Grand
Treasurer, ---- --- ---- -- - --- - - - -- - --Sept. 10, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, recei ved from John H . Leathers, Grand
Treasurer, - ----- - -- --- - ---- - --------

10.00
500.00
25 .00
30.15
17 . 50
5 .00

-----

$3112.65

LOUISIANA - Continued.
April 23, Jefferson Lodge No. 191, New Orleans, by
telegraphic instructions to draw received from Samuel VVolf, VV. M. _____ _
May 8,
Louisiana Lodge No. 102, New Orleans, by
express money order received from J. B.
Parker, Secretary, -----------------May 4,
Louisiana Lodge No. 102, (personal con- ·
tributions from C. A. and H. B. Farwell
members of said Lodge) received from
J.B. Parker, Secretary, -------------George VVashington Lodge No. 65, New OrMay 7,
leans, by P. 0. money order received from
Robert VV. Irvine, Secretary, _________ _
May 21, Contribution from Mrs. Richard M:illiken,
received by express mcmey order from
J. B. Parker, Sec. La. Lod~ No. 102 _
June 14, Anacoco Lodge No. 147, Leesville, by P. 0.
money order received from Jno. P. Cain,
Secretary, --------------------------

May 2,

stra:~ tJ:~~~~-:,i1:-:e;.t;;~-1t-;~g;,-by

N. Y. exchange, received from R . N.
Ross Secretary, ---- - --------- - -----May 2,
Jacques DeMolay Commandry No. 2, New
Orleans, by express money order received from George Medus, E. C. ---May 3,
Abbeville Lodge No. 192, Abbeville, by
P. 0. money order, received from M:. R.
Cushman, Secretary, -------------April 26, Perfect Union Lodge No. 1, New Orleans,
b:y warrant received from VVm. C.
VVright, Treasurer, -- - ---------------

50 . 00
50 . 00

100 .00
20 .00
50.00
10.00
$5865.oo

LOUISIANA.
April 24, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw from L. C. Allen, Grand Master,
April 28, Union Lodge No. 172, ------ - -------Jeanerette Lodge No. 255, -----------May 1,
By check received from Richard J.;ambert,
Grand Sec'y Orleans-Delta Chapter No. 1,
R. A. M. by N. Y. exchange, _______ __
Columbia Lodge No. 164, Columbia, by
check __ __ ___ ------ ________ -.- ---- __ _
Received from Richard Lambert, Grand Secretary.
.
.
May 15, Germama Lodge. No. 46, New Orleans, by
check, ------------------ -- ---------Amite Lodge No. 175, Amite City, by
currency, --- - -- __ -- - ---------------Received from Richard Lambert, Grand Secretary.
May 2,
Ocean Lodge No. 144, New Orleans, by
· N. Y. exchange, received from James

249

MAR.YLAND.
5000 .00
100 .00
25.00
100.00
25.00

April 27, M:asons of State, by telegraphic transfer,
from Thomas J. Shryock, Grand Master, $5000 .00
M:asons of State, by telegraphic transfer,
May 1,
from Thomas J. Shryock, Grand Master,
5000.00
Masons of State, by telegraphic transfer,
May 8,
from Thomas J . Shryock, Grand Master,
2500 . 00
.April 27, Annapolis Lodge No. 89, Annapolis, by
cash received from L. D. Gapoway,
20.00
Secretary, . ___ ------------ ----------$12520.00

100 . 00

MASSACHUSETTS.

10 . 00

April 28, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to di-aw, received from John Albert
25 .00
50 . 00
100 . 00
25.00
25.00

Blake, Grand Master, - - -------------- $1000 .00
Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw, received from John Albert
2000 . 00
Blake, Grand M:aster, ---- - ----------Kay 21, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw, received from John Albert
2000.00
Blake, Grand Master, ---------------April 26, Lodges of 13th. Masonic District, by N. Y.
chan\( .received from District Deputy
115.00
rand aster, - - -------------------Aug. 23, Grand Lodge, by instructions to draw, received from S. D. Nickerson, Recording
1600.00
Grand Secretary, ---------~----------

Kay 11,

0

$6715.00

250

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MISSOUR.I - Continued.
Seaman Lodge No. 126, Milan, _________ _
Solomon Council No. 26, Milan, _________ _
Milan Chapter No. 103, ________________ _
St. Bernard Commandry No. 52,, Milan, __
By N. Y. exchange received from R. B. Ash,

MICHIGAN.

)IB.y 3,
April 24, Grand Lodge, oy telegraphic instructions
to draw received from John Rowson,
Grand Master, ----~----------------- $1000.00
Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange reMay 7,
ceived from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, ------------------------------871.60
May 25, Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange
received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, ------------------------------3119.17
Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. draft reJune 8,
ceived from Wm. Wente, G:rand Treas-·
urer, ------------------------------715.21
Blue Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange,
July 2,
received from Wm. ·Wente, Grand Treas169.00
urer, ------------------------------July 24, Lod~es of State, by N. Y. exchange, received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treas106. 75
urer, ------------------------------Aug. 28, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer, ____ .:_________________ --------25.00

W. M.
Naphtali Lodge No. 25, St. Louis, by N. Y.
exchange received from Sol. Boehm,
Treasurer, -------------------------i'Jl.ril 28, Charity Lodge No. 331, St. Joseph, by N. Y.
exchange received from Ed. Schramm,
Secretary, -------------------------~pril 26, Samaritan Lod~e No. 424, Bonne Terre, by
telegraphic mstructions to draw, received from Lodge, ------------------

May 21,
Aug. 13,

May 1,

$2241.00
MISSISSIPPI.

July 5,

Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange, received
from John R. Parsott, Grand Secretary,
Subordinate Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received from John R. Parson,
Grand Secretary, ---------- ---------

5000.00
4848.80

Grand Lodge, ------------------------Sl,lbordinate Lodges of State, ___________ _
By Portland exchange received from Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary.
May 11, Subordinate Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received from Cornelius Hedges,
Grand Secretary, -------------------May 14 Scottish Rite Bodies of Butte, _________ _
Subordinate Lodges of State, ----------By N. Y. exchange received from Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary,
May 4,
Masonic Relief Committee, Butte, by currency received from R. H. Paxson,
Chairman ______ -------------------- _
J une 19, Masonic Relief Committee, Butte, by San
Francisco exchange received from R. H.
Paxson, Chairman, -----------------Aug. 2;
Subordinate Lodges of State, by San Francisco exchange received from Cornelius
Hedges, Grand Secretary, ------------

$300.00
450.00

1076.50
150.00
400.00

743.50
292.25
405.00

NEBR.ASKA.
$2500.00

May 4,

50 .fV'l

$3817.25

1000.00
500.00
1000.00

MISSOUR.I.

200.00

$10423.80

Lodges of St~te, by check received from
Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary,$.1000.00
Lodges of State, by check received from
Thomas Montgomery, Grand Secretary,
800.00
Dalles Lodge No. 181, Cloquet, by Chicago
exchange received from C. T. Exstrand,
Treasurer, ------------------------·-25.00
Lodges of State, by check received from
Thomas Montgomery, Grand Sec~etary,
416.00

May 1,
Grand Lod~, by N. Y. exchange, _______ _
May 2, · Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, _____ _
May 11, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, _____ _
Received from Frederic Speed, Grand Sec. ___ _

200.00

MONTANA.

$6006.73

June 19,

50.00
25.00
25.00
25,00

May 1,

MINNESOTA.
June 4,

251

April 24, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions to ·
draw received from Melville R. Hopewell,
Grand Master, ---------------------$500.00
May 8,
Lincoln Lodge No. 19, Lincoln, by Chicago
exchange received from Charles M.
Keefer, W. M. ---------------------200.00
$700.00

253

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NEW MEXICO.
NEVADA.
May 2,
May 3,
May 12,

Lodges of State, by N. Y. and San Francisco exchange received from Chauncy
N. Notewa.re, Grand Secretary, ------Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from Chauncy N. Notewa.re, Grand
Secretary, -- ---- - ---- - ---- ----- -- --Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from Chauncy N. Noteware, Grand
Secretary, --------------------------

Apn1 24, Roswell Lodge No. 18, Roswell, by: telegraphic transfer from John Shaw, W. M.
express
.May 2, · Lebanon Lodge No. 22, Gallup,
money order received from C. . Brown,
• Secretary, --------------------------

U.

2286 .05

$200 .00
NEW YORK

615.50

Grand Lod\7 by check received from Fred5000 .00
erick P
orris, Grand Treasurer, ______
Lodges of State; by check received from
J.tay 5,
Frederick P. Morris, Grand Tree.surer, __ 10000 .00
f.pril 28, .Syracuse Lodge No. 501, Syrf!o<luse, by
instructions to draw draft received from
ioo.oo
H. W. Greenland, Secretary,- - ---~---May 14, Merchant's Lod~e No. 709, Brooklyn,.bJ;
check receive from Harry J. Schei t,
400.00
Master, ___ - -- ------ ---- - - - - -- -- -- -- ep~. 18, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange received
from Frederick P. Morris, Grand Treasurer, ------------------------------- 25907.50

//JAY 2,
$3151.55

Aug. 29,

50.00

250 .00

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
June 2,

$150.00

Grand Lodge, and Subordinate Lodges of
State,
N. Y..exchanJe received from
Frank . Woodbury, rand Secretary, $1225 .00
Lodges of State, by N. Y. excha{fr: received
from Frank D. Woodbury, rand Sec274.75
retary, -------- -- ------------------ -

1J1

$1499.75

$41407.50
NORTH DAKOTA.

NEW JERSEY.

tlJ>ril 26, Masonic Lod~e No.. 37, Fairmount,_ by
telegrif,hic lllStructions to draw received
from . H. Greenman, W. M.-- - -------1 50 .00

April 30, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exc~e received
from Thomas H . R. Redway, Grand
Secretary, -------------------------- $3000.00
Lcidges of State, by telegraphic instructions
May 1,
to draw received from Thome.a H. R.
Redway. Grand Secretary, ____________
1500 .00
May 2,
Lodges of State, by teleg~hic instructions
to draw received from homas H. R. ·
Redwal, Grand Secretary,------- -- -- - - 2000.00
May 11, Lodges o State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from Thome.a H R.
Redway, Grand Secretary,-------- ------ 1500.00
May 28, Lodges of State, by: N. Y. exchange received
from Thomas H. ·R. Redway, Grand
1500.00
L!:se:rls~~~byN.-Y~~-;ck~ie-~~~i;~<l
June 6,
from Thome.a H. R. Redway, Grand
1000.00
Secretary, -------------------------April 25, Washington Lodge No. 33, Elizabeth, by
P. 0; money order received from James
100.0C
· A. Knowles, Secretary, -- - -------- --June 9, Salaam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S. Newa.rk,
by order on Treasurer, received from
G.-C. We.rd, Recorder, __ _____ ________ _
500.00
•

J

$50.00
OHIO.
Lodges of State, by N. Y. eicb.ange, ______ $1000.00
2000.00
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ______
1000 .00
Lodges of State, by N. Y. excb.ange, ______
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, _____ _ 2000.00
2000.00
Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange, ______
25.00
Ladies of Cincinnati1 by N. Y. excb.ange __
ceived through LeWlB P. · Schaus, Grand
Master.
April 26, Columbian Commandry No. 52, K. T.,
Ashtabula, by telegraphic instructi.ons
to draw received from C. W. Hernck,
100 .00
E. C. -----------------------------April 26, Western Reserve Chapter No. 8, R. A. M.,
Ashtabula, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from E. G. Pullman,
100.00
High Priest, ------------------------

Jlay 1,
May 3,
Jlay 7
May 12,
May 17
June

the

$8225 .00
$11100.00

254

July 13,

May ,2,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAI:IFORNIA.

OKLAHOMA.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

Grand Lodge, bl. N. Y. exchange received
from James . Hunt, Grand Secretary,
received through George Johnson,
Grand Secretary, -------------------Earleboro Lodge No. 72, Earleboro, by
instructions to draw draft received from
Joseph A. Ingram, W. M. __________ __ _

April 28, Landmark Lodge No. 76, Charleston, by
telegraphic instructions to draw received
from J. M. Athens, W. M. ______ ______
April 27, Union Kilwinning Lodge, Charleston, by
teleg{khic instructions to draw received
from
orge ff. Moffett, Treasurer, __ __

$908.25
20.00

$100 .00
100.00

$928 .25

$200 .00

OREGON.
April 12, Grand Lodge, by telegra{Vhic instructions
to draw received from
. H. Flanagan,
Grand Master, ---------------------April 27, Oregon Commandry No. 1, K. T., by curreitcy received from W. S. McCrum,
Recorder, _---~-----.- - -~- -- - - ------ -April 27, Harmony 'Lodge No. 12, Portland, by draft
received from F . A. Jones, W: M. ______
May 1,
Portland LodC No. 55, Portland, by Los
Angeles exc nge received from F. Freidlander, W. M.. ---------- --- ------- --

2.55

SOUTH DA KOT A.

April 29, Coteau Lodge No. 54, Webster, bb N. Y. exchange received from W. S. . Adams,
W. M. --- -- ------ -- ---- --- --------

$500.00

$50.00
$ !0 .00

200 .00

TENNESSEE.

500 .00

April 27, South Memphis Lodge No. 118, Mem/ihis,
250.00

$1450 .00

May 4,

PENNSYLVANIA.
April 23, Gr.and Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from GeQrge W.
Kendnck; Jr. Grand Master, _______ __ _ $5000.00
May 2,
Lodges of State, by telegra8hic instructions
to . draw received from eorge W. Kendrick, Jr., Grand Master, __ ___________
5000.00
May 12, Lodges of State ,by telegra8hic instructions
to draw ·received from eorge W. Ken-·
drick, Jr., Grand Master, ______________
5000 .00
June 5,
Lodges of State, by telegra8hic instructiqns
to draw received from eorge W. Ken5000.00
drick, Jr., Grand Master, -- -- -------April 26, Robert Burns Lodge No. 464, Harrisburg,
by telegraphic' instructions to draw received from Andrew S. Patterson, W. M.
100.00
July 10, Lu Lu Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S. Phila833 .25
delphia, by check,-- - - - -- -- -- - ---- -- -

by telegraphic transfer, from E. E. rancis, W. M. ---------- ~ --------------Leila Scott Lodge No. 289, by express
money order received from H. L. Pickering, Secretary, --- ------ --------- --

$100.00
25.00
$125 .00

TEXAS.
April 28, Lodges of State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from S. M. Bradley,
Grand Master, -------- -- -- - - - ------- $2500 .00
May 12, Lodges of State, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from John Watson,
Grand Secretary, ----- ;:- ----- - ------ 5500.00

$8000.00
UTAH.

April 28, Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange received
$20933.25

May 2,

RHODE ISLAND.
'April 28, Masons of State, by telegra.fchic ~uctions
to draw. received from oseph
. Freeman, Grand Master, ____ ______ ________ $1000 .00
June 12, Masons of State,
instructions to draw
received from
. A. Presbrey, Grand
Master;, ____ __ _______ _____ ___ ________
2116.31

from Christopher Diehl, Grand Secretary,
Tintic Lodge No. 9, Eureka, by P. 0. money
order received from CharJes Kryger,
Secretary, - -- -----------------------

$500 .00
110.00
$610.00

VERMONT.

.w

May 21,

$3116.31

Lodges of State, by N.Y.exchange received
from Chas. W. Whitcomb, Grand Treasurer. ------ - --------- - ----- - ----- __ $1181.00

256
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

June 5,

25.00
May 2,
50.00
July 18,
27.75
$1404.25

VIRGINIA.
April 26, Masons of State,_ bYd tel
f egraphic
J<'redinstructions
Pleasants,
to draw receive rom
Grand Treasurer, -------hi--~-~~ti.~~
May 7, . Masons of State? byd~~~~a1Fr:dmpleasants,
to draw receive
Grand
Treasurer,. --t~cti~~;k;-d;~~-r~
May 8,
Masons of State, by msd Pl ants Grand
ceived from Fre
eas
'
Treasurer, --------;--t~c""ti~~-~-d~;
May 15, Masons of State, by ms Pleasants Grand
'
received from Fred

WASHINGTON - Continued.
Bremerton Lodge No. 117,
Chi~ ex
change ·received from
. W.
ler
July 5,
Acting Grand Secre~-------------Anvil LOdge No. 140, oine, Alaska, by
San Francisco exchange received from
H. W. TterN Grand Secretary, ________
April 26,
P~loll:Se Lo g~ o. 46, Palouse, b,r tele'fr.aphle instructions to draw received rom
C. H. Kna~, Secretary, ______________
April 26,
Northpo:r:,t ~ ge N~.100, Northport, by telegraphic lllStruct1ons to draw received
from H. W. Sterrett, Secretary, ________
April 27,
Waitsburg Lodge No.16, Waitsburg, by N.
Y. exchange received from R. E. Butler,
April 28,

$500.00

May 5,

May 21,
500.00

May 21,

M~~~~rs~t;,-"bFre-y-~~iie~~~~t;~~~~
received from

500.00

June 25,

Treasurer, ---------~---t~----~-ct;~;
Mason.a of State, by ~\;I:~~:.S, Grand
received from Fre

April 30,

NZr~'i!ig~~-byf-~i;irT-;~hl~~~~~~~~
to draw received rom . .

450.00

May 23,

May 1,

100.00
cd,per, W.
Suffolk Lod'h N y exchanl!'.e received
. ChapteHr, Wyood . ard Secretary, Suffolk,
100.00
w
'
---from .

400.00

~~ -3;;-~~d-Mt~-N~b~-R.-A.

$3550.00

May 8,
May 22,

ter, ____ -------- - -----.- -------- ----- .

50.00
100.00
100.00
200.00

50.00
200 .00

Masons of D. C. by telegraphic transfer,
received from Walter A. Brown, Grand
Master,----------------------------- $1000.00
Ma.sons of D. C. by New York exchange,
1616.50
received from Walter A. Brown, G. M.__

.

$2616.50

WEST VIR.OINIA.
May 1,

WASHINGTON.

. tructions to draw re
G~B.!ld Lodge, bAy msL
Miller Grand Mas
ce1ved from · ·
'

450.00

WASHINOTON--01snucr OF COLUMBIA.

April 26,

May 1,

April 27,

Secretary, received through Geo. W.
Hunter, ---------------------------Chehalis Lodge No. 28, by N. Y. exchange
received from Coffman, Dobson & Co.,
Bankers, ------------------------•--

140.00

$1790.ou

G. M. ----~--·--.i;i"d"'--N~-21-wi~~h;;Winchester Hiram
g~ d .fro:n. W. E.
ter by currency receive
.

April 23, Grand Lodge, by edtel egrsfroJhie
A. inBtructions
L. Miller,
to draw ·rece1v
Grand Master, _______ __ _____________ _

Ol~;i~dge--ifo:-1~-0J~~~~-by_fu"_
structions to draw received om H. R.
Ev~:!'tt
s~d~~o. i37;1-y N.-Y.-~~~~~~
received from Benjamin W. Sherwood,

500 .00

500 . 00

if

May 11,

120 . 50
June 16,

257

$250.00

Grand Lodge, by N. Y. exchange received
McClintic, Grand Masfrom
George__W.
______________________
_
ter, ________

Morgan~wn Union Lodge No. 4, by N. Y.

exchange received from George W.
McClintic; Grand Master, _____________ _
Minturn Lodge No. 19, Point Pleasant, by
N. Y. exchange received from B. Franklin, Secretary, ----------------------

$300.00
50.00
25.00

WISCONSIN.
250.00 .

April 30, Grand Lodge, by telegraphic instructions
to draw received from Jesse C. Bradley
Grand Master,______________________ $1000 . 00

$375.00

258

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
WISCONSIN -

MISCELLANEOUS CONTRIBUTIONS.

Continued.

500.00

May 11, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange_.., ___ _
May 21, Lodges of State, by N. Y. excbange,~----21, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange _____ _
Ma.y 29, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange _____ _
June 13, Lodges of State, by N. Y. exchange _____ _
June 15, Lancaster Lodge No. 20, Lancaster, b;r
June 16,

1500.00

500.00
500.00
262.75
50.00

K~hi~~e0 L:~~~.--263,--H~~~;d,--by

10 .00

Chlcago exchange, ------------------All received through J. M. Pereles, Grand
Treasurer,
June 22, Robert Morris Lodge No. 115, Eagle, by
N. Y. exchange,--------------------June 26, Winneconne Lodge No. 90, Evansville, by
N. Y. exchange, --------------:------

15.00

Pa.~rY. L~x~an~~---~~~~-=~~~~~~~~--~~

10,00

100.00

In=d~~~e ~~~- so~Mil;~~;;,-i;y

40 .00

Sp~~~ey-~g~-N~.--i6i,-"bY,-:N~-Y.

100.00

8

July 24.

check received from

Alfred Chfch,

exchange received from J. M. Pereless,
Past Grand Treasurer, _____________ ___

33.50

----

Contributions to the Relief Fund, transmitted
to George Johnson, Grand Secretary San Francisco, and by him turned over to G~d MMter
September 1, 1906:
April 28, Charleston Lodge No. 407, Charleston, Mo.,
30, Barney Lodge No. 279, Dighton, Kansas, __
M!1.13onic Board of Control, Springfield, Ill.,
Midway Lodge No. 185, St. Paul, Minn. __
May 1,
Starr King Lodge, Salem, Maas.,------~~­
Ottawa. Lodge, No. 128, Ottawa, KaI1888,_
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. Arkansas, from
its Secretary, ---------------------M\v Olivet· Lodge No. 3, Parkersburg,
est Va., -------------------------2,
Yellowstone Mas. Club, Yellowstone Park
yo., ------------~----------------Crescent Lodge, Pittsfield, M888., _______ _
Sonora Lodge No. 12, Cananea, Mex., _____ _
Lake View LodEe No. 774. Chicago, Ill., __ _
Peoria Lodge No. 15, Peoria, Ill., __ ___ ___ _
Sconondoa Lodge No. 814, Vernon, N. Y.,
3,
Macdonald Lodge No. 103, Macdonald
West Va., -------------------------~
Valley Lodge No. 71, Orting, Wash., _____ _
Nelson Lod~ No. 30, Wheeling, West Va.,
Wm. G. Hill Lodge No. 218, Raleigh,
West, Va., ---------------~---------S~nora. Lodge No. 2, Cananea., Mexico, ___ _
4,
Hiram Lodge No. 98, Clinton, N. C., _____ _
5,
Union Lodge No. 31, New London, Conn.,
Evans Lodge No. 524, Evanston, Ill., ____ _
J. S. Murrow, Grand Sect'y, Ind. Ter., ___ _
St. Johns Lodge No. 9, Seattle, Wash., ___ _
6,
7,
Saint Cecilia Lodge No. 865, Chicago, Ill.,_
10, Rolla Lodge No. 66, Rolla, North Dakota.,_
Coalgate Lodge No. 129, Coalgate, Ind. Ter.,
14, Cassia Lodge No. 14, Albion, Ida.ho, _____ _
15, Carthage Lodge No. 181, Carthage, N. C. __
16, C. E. Rosenbaum, Grand Treasurer, Little
Rock, Ark., -----------·------------22, M~. ~erman Lodge No. 118, Asheville, N. C.
28, Oli~a. Lodge No. 220, Olivia, Minn., _____ _
29, Prairie Lodge No. 120, Hartline, Wash., __
June 1,
Silver City Lodge No. 8, from Grand Secty.
of New Mexico,--------------'-------Grand Lodge of Hungary, _____________ _
5,
Concordia Lodge No. aos, Vidalia, La., __ _
6,
9,
Joppa Lodge No. 123, Shattuck, Oklahoma.,
Hibernia. Lodge No. 3, St John, N. B., ___ _
July 3,
6,
Henderson Lodge No. 485, Henderson,
Tenn., _:. _________ -~---------------·
Aug. 6,
Grand Lodge, Oklahoma, from Grand Secy.,

w

5.00

July 2, .
Received through J. M. Pereles, Past Grand
Treasurer
April 29 Oshkosh Lodge No. 27, Oshkosh, by N. Y.
'
exchange received from E. R . Williams,
------------ - ---Treasurer,
Columbia Lodge No. 124i Kilbourn, by
May 5,
Chicago exchange received from H .
May 5,

259

$4626.25

,

$25.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
150.00

. 50.00

100.00

50.00
70.00
100.00

5'.00
100 .00
100.00
60.00

50.00
25.00

50.00
100.00
110.00
10.00
25.00
100.00
135.00
100.00

50.00
50 .00
25.00
75.00
25.00
219.00

50.00
50.00
107.00
100.00
40.00
15.00
10.00

50.00
10.00
10.00
$2551.00

260

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MONEY EXPENDED.

FROM FOREl<lN JURISDICTIONS.
BRITISH AMERICA.
April 20, Grand Lodge, Victoiia, B. C., shipment of
food supplies, sent by steamer,
King Edward Lodge No. 36, Phoenix, B. C.,
May 8,
by N. Y. exchange received through
Morris Klein, Secretary Los Angeles
Lodge No. 42, Los Angeles, Cal., _____ _
May 25, Temple Lodge No. 33, Duncan's, B. C., by
check received from R. E. Brett, Grand·
June 12,

July 5,

6-5,
8-3,

Exchange, collections and expense on
drafts ........................... .
W. P. Jeffries Company, stamped envelopes
and letter heads . . . .............. .
W. P. Jeffries Company, printing . . . ... .
W. P. Jeffries Company stamped envelopes

$32.00
17 .50
23.50

6-2,
6-30,

Postage . . . .......................... .
Postage ............................ . .

12.00
5.00

1000.00

1)..4,

2500.00

25.00

7-16,
9-4,

Santa Rosa Relief Board ...... ·......... .
Ob~tions incurred by brethren of Santa
osa ............................ .
Santa Rosa, account Temple . ·......... .
Santa Rosa Relief Boarcj. . . . ........... .

15000.00
10000.00
1000.00

5-4,
9-5,

San Jose, Relief Board ............... . .
San Jose Relief Board ............. . ... .

5000.00
2000.00

San Francisco Relief Board .... , ....... .
San Francisco Relief Board ............. .
San Francisco Relief Board ........... . .
San Francisco Relief Board ............ .
San Francisco Relief Board ............ .
Clothing and supplies shipped to San Francisco,
Brownstein, Newmark & Louis ......... .
Brownstein, Newmark & Louis ......... .
Brownstein, Newmark & Louis ......... .
Brownstein, Newmark & Louis ...... . .. .
Brownstein, Newmark & J,ouis ......... .
Moore-Barret D. G. Co .................. .
Moore-Barret D. G. Co................. .
Moore-Barret D. G. Co ................. .
L. W. Stockwell Co.................... .
Rosenthal & Salzman .. , . . ............ .
Wm. H. Hoegee Co., .................. .

14025.00
25000.00
25000.00
25000.00
5647 .17

5-4,

$124.60

25.00

73.00

50.00

Gr:deL:lge ~Tc~~~d.~;
~he~k-~;c""ai;~d.
from Jas. H. Burritt, Grand Master,
Pembrook, Ont., -------------------Civil Service Lodge, Ottawa, by check
received from Jas. H. Burritt, Grand
Master, ----------------------------Sussex Lodge No. 7, St. Stephen, N. B.,
by check received from J. T. Whitlock,
et al, ------------------------------

by

17 .00
J>.:26,

28500.00

101.00
$1201.00

IRELAND.
June 26,
July 24,

7000.00

Grand Lodge, by San Francisco exchange
received from H. G. Flavelle, Deputy
Grand Secretary, Dublin, ------------Grand Lodge, by San Francisco exchange
received from H. G. Flavelle, Deputy
Grand Secretary, Dublin, _____________ _

$507.94
..
$1016.14

June 2,
July 5,

8-1,
9-8,
9-13,
9-26,

508.20

MEXICO.
May 26,

b-25,
6-5,

6-16,
6-22,
8-3,
6-5,
6-22,

A Mason of La Cananea, Sonora, by N. Y.
exchange received through J. L. Brow:n,
Secretary Perfect Ashlar :(_,odge No. :t2,
Bisbee, Arizona; -------------------Masons of Mexico, by instructions to draw
received from G. G. Bergman, Assistant
Grand Secretary, -------------------Masons of Mexico~ by Chicago exchange
received from G. G. Bergman, Assistant
Grand Secretary, --------------------

5.00

7-11,

6-22,
800.00
6-4,

188.56

SOUTH AUSTR.ALIA.
Grand Lodge, by London exchange received
. from Jas. H. Cunningham, Grand Secretary, Adelaide, --------------------

6-4,

241.50

-----

Grand Total of Receipts ________________ _

1491.36
995 .40
13.24
1148 .64
306.00
175.69
208.63
45.00
87.83
674.24
181.80
100000.00

$993.56

Sept. 6,

261

$241.50
$225,692.10

9-5,

Kane & Daly, Carriage, relief work 10 days
San Francisco .................... :
Relief extended San Francisco, Grand
Master .............. '. ........... .
Clerical expenses ..................... .
Draft, favor George Johnson, for M. Hennings, conducting bakery .......... .
Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau . . . ..... .
Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau . . . ..... ·.

150.00
196.00
59.00
250.00
9600.00
5000.00
14600.00

•

262
6-5,
9-18,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE·
1500.00
1000.00

Sacramento Board of Relief ............ .
Sacramento Board of Relief .•...........

Masonic Board of Relief, Stockton .••....
F. B. Silverwood, (clothing, etc. destitute
brother) ......................... .
5-4,
Stoll & Thayer, (neostyle and paper, brother of Illinois jurisdiction) .......... .
5-29, Clothi~, etc., destitute brother, California
junsdiction ...................... .
5-31, Durant Lodge No. 268, Berkeley, (advanced by Lodge for brethren of outside jurisdictions) ................ .
Southern Pacific Company-, (transporl;Jition
6-4,
family California. jurisdiction) ...... .
6-2,
Smith Brothers Hardware Co., (tools for
brother of Illinois jurisdiction ...... .
6-4,
Relief Brother California jurisdiction .... .
Relief, Brother California juri.sdiction ... .
6-5,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

9-18,
7-18,

5-10,
5-23,
6-9,
7-24,

2500.00

7-16,
7-18,

$364.00

7-25,

21.75

g..18,

44.00
41.70
50.00
14.40

50.00
150.00

-----

Yowit Lodge No. 12, Napa, relief widow .
Southern Pacific Company, transportation
widow and daughter . . .........•...
Solano Lodge No. 229, Vallejo, relief .... .
Solano Lodge No. 229, Vallejo, relief .... .

Naval Lodge No. 87, Vallejo ........... .
Oscar Lawler, (expenses San Francisco) ..
Oak Grove, Lodge No. 215 Alameda relief
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, (relief widow
Massachusetts jurisdiction) ........ .
8-16, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215, relief ........ .

200.00
100.00
32.50
85.85
363.75
449.60
96.65
81.00
600.00
50.00
. 500.00
1150 .00

7-9,
6-2&,
7-5,

Southern Pacific Company, tra~ortation
. brother of Maryland jurisdiction .... .
Relief, destitute brother ............... .
California Hospital, (expenses destitute
widow) .......................... .
California Hospital, (expenses destitute
widow) .......................... .

40.25
100.00
20.00
20.00

250.00
250.00
250.00

6-1,~flRussian River Lodge No. 181 .......... .

Russian River Lodge No. 181 .......... ,

0-2, 'Ii Relief, brother Mt. Moriah Lodge St. Louis .

9-27,

750.00

E. C. Atkinson, (relief widow Past Grand

Commander, Knights Templar) ..... .
Hartley Lodge No. 199 ................ .
Keith Lodge No. 187 .................. .
8-8, McKinley Lodge No. 347 . . .......•.....
Lompoc Lodge No. 262 ................ .
9-18, Vitruvius Lodge No. 145 .............. .
8-3, Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
(Maintenance Brother California jurisdiction) ........................ .
8-27, Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
(Maintenance Brother California jurisdiction) ........ \ ............... .
8-29, Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
(Maintenance Brother California jurisdiction) ........................ .
9-8, Southern California Masonic Home Assn.
(Maintenance Brother California jurisdiction) ........................ .

250.00
1000.00
600.00
105.65
500.00
2500.00

7-20,
7-24,

16.00
18.00
15.00
200.00
249.00

H. J. Lask, (furniture, suppl_ies, etc., purchased for widow and five children ....
7-26, Relief widow member Ascension Lodge
No. 251 Louisiana ............... : .
8-7, Relief, widow member Ascension Lodge
No. 251 Louisiana ................ .
8-9, M. Brown, (furniture) widow member Ascension Lodge No. 251 Louisiana ....
9-6, Carr & Stephens, (merchandise) widow
meII?-l?er Ascension Lodge No. 251
Loms1ana ........................ .
9-10, Relief, widow member Ascension Lodge
Lodge No. 251 Louisiana .......... .
7-24,

209.50
25.00
55.00
168.20
24.85
40.00

313.05
40.00

8-1,

250.00

45.50

8-20,
6-12,
6-30,
7-25,

6-7,

Lafayette Lodge No. 126 .............. .
E. ·c: A~k~s9n, (relief brother of California
JUnsd1ct1on) ...................... .
E. C.. A~k~~n, (relief brother of California
JUnsd1cbon) ..................... .
E. C.. A~ki!l~n, (relief br"ther of California
JUnsd1ct10n) . . . . ................. .

. 263

500.00
1700.00
2200.00
25.00

D. Samuels Lace House Co. (relief wido"'.
California jurisdiction) . . . ......... .
8-27, Ste~ling Furniture Co., (relief widow California jurisdiction) ................ .
Chas. Brown & Sone, (relief widow California jurisdiction) ................•

8-18,

6.00
147 .80
24.85
178.65

264
7-26,
8-30,
9-22,
9-23,

9-17,
8-28,
9-21 ,
9-27,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Singer Sewing Machine Co. (relier" widow
California jurisdiction) . . . .... .. . . . .
Relief, widow Colorado jurisdiction . . ... .
M. B_ro".ffi•. (s~pplies) widow relief Colorado
JUrrsdwt10n) . . . . .. .. .. . . ... . .. . . . .
Carr & Stephens, (merchandise), (relief
widow Colorado jurisdiction) ... . ... .
Rhoades, Reed & Rhoades, (merchandise)
(relief widow Colorado jurisdiction.) ..
Eli ?-'· .B~c~mer, (relief widow Missouri
JUrrsd1ction) . . . . .... ....· . ...... .. .
Southern Pacific Company (transportation)
widow and daughter, California jurisdiction) . . ..... . . . .... . . ... . .... . .
Relief widow Kansas jurisdiction . .... . . .
Eastern Outfitting Co., furniture, etc. (Relief widow Kansas jurisdiction) .... . .

9-25, Temple Lodge No. 14, relief ...... . . .... .
9-25, · Masonic Board of Relief, Los Angeles ... .
6-2,
Western Union Telegraph Co ... . ....... .
6-6, · Western Union Telegraph Co ..... . ... . . .
7-26, Western Union Tetlegaph Co.... .. . . ... .
6-5,
Postal Telegraph Cable Co: ..... . . .. ... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
37 .00
50.00
207 .80

GENERAL MASONIC RELIEF BOARD

33.20

JAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA
1154 0' Farrell Street.

194.05

50.00

San Fra.ncico, Cal., Sept. 1906.
"To relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent on all men, and particulary on Masons. who are linked together by an indissoluble chain of sincere,
afjlCtion. To soothe the unhappy, to sympathize with their misfortunes
to ~passionate their miseries, and to restore peace to their troubled minds,
is the grea~ aim we have i~ view. On this basis we form our friendships
and establish our connect10ns.

647 .30

Hon. Motley Hewes Flint
M. W. Grand Master of Masons, California

485 .05
75 .00
35 .00

697 .30
5000 .00
3000 .00
.95
6.61
4 .30
1 .84
13 .70

Total .. ...... . . . ............... .
Total receipts . . . .. .. .. . ..... .. ....... : . . . . . .
Total expenditures ..... . . .............. .. . .. .

$174814 .85
$225692.10
174814.85
50877 .52

Balance .......... ·. . ........... . . . . .
Balance shown in bank book ........... ...... .
Checks outstanding . . . ....... ............ . . . .

265

Most Worshipful Sir and Brother:
()omplying with your will and pleasure contained in letter of the 16th
ult., and following a custom long in vogue of printing a report of stewardship
of !important affairs entrusted to the care of those on whom devolve such
matters, we herewith beg leave according to such usage, to submit to you the
workings of this particular Board, together with a short history of its inception,
the cause for such, together with financial and statistical exhibits, which
we trust will meet with your approval as well a s bring to the
attention of the members of the Craft whithersoever dispersed, the work
1111»mplished by this board and its endeavor to carry out the tenets of our
ancient and beloved fraternity
Super Omnia Relig-io
(Duty before everything)
Historical.

95028 .32
42960 .72

Balance ....... . ... .. . .. . .. . ..... . ... . .. ... ·.
Grand Master balance . ..... . . . .... . .. . . ..... .

52067 .60
50877 .25

Excess unaccounted for ........... . . . .

1190 .35

Immediately after the dire calamity which befel our city on April 18th19th-20th last, and recognizing the importance and necessity of concerted
action for those who were sufferers by the earthquake and fire, a number of
Craftsmen in this city assembled _a nd determined on at least, distributing
food to those who might be in want of it. To this end the directors of King
Solomon's Temple, 1745 Fillmore St., lent assistance and gratuitously placed
their main . rotunda at the disposal of a few zealous Craftsmen, who started
• out immediately to procure eatables. Stores from the general commissary
~ment of the United States Government were obtained. Chairs, tables,
cutting knives, axes and other implements necessary to work with were boriowed, and thus equipped, the iron gates were thrown open and the task o
feeding the hungry began. At first it was only intended that the ·Masons and
their kindred should be supplied, but as supplication after supplication was ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

266

267

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

made, almost begging for food, the portals were opened wide, and the distributing station started by Masons for Masons was in reality a veritable
"Gates Ajar".On the first day of the voluntary giving out food, upwards of
seven-thousand persons of both sexes, of all ages, of every nationality and
irrespective of creed or religion were supplied. From that on, and for nearly
nine days thereafter, at least six-thousand rations a day were given out, and .
the fervent "God bless you", the silent thanks and the humble gratitude of
all was more than payment for the trying and strenuous work of the little band of Master Masons who worked day and night, early and late . The
good, big-hearted Craftsmen of Oakland and Alameda County, hearing of the
work that was being done, came to the aid of those in charge by supplying
food in such quantities that at times it was a puzzle where it could be stored.
In the whole world's history covering calamities which have befel cities,
countries and nations, (and none have been handed down in any equalling
that which overcame our cherished city) , is there any record of the feeding
sans cost to any one, as was the case on the many days succeeding the second
and third_ days of the disaster. In a population of over 500,000 persons, and
allowing that 100,000 of them fled the city, there is yet to be heard of one
single instance where anyone went hungry. Arrangement had been made,
and was made for everyone, and it will always be a remembrance, never to
be forgotten, of the millionare standing in front or behind the poorest soul in
the "Bread-line" (Prince and Pauper) awaiting his chance to obtain something, no matter how little or what he might be given, to appease his and his
family's hunger. Conditions were unalterably changed, and "one touch of
nature made the whole world kin". As disasterous and sorrowful as was the
calamity, it had its good effect in rµaking all as one family and binding the
tie· of brotherly love and fraternity stronger. It knew no station in life,
all, like the teachings of Masonry, were of an equality; they met upon the level
and parted on the square - such a square as had never before dawned on
men - not even Craftsmen who suffered, to realize the full meaning and
intent of that teaching, Moreover, it brought an old and sacred Order
. to the front rank of respect and esteem. The profane opened their eyes in
wonderment, and their very looks indicated that Masonry amounted to something .after all, unless how could they who were members of it, succor those
who had belittled and defiled it, and treat all as if of their own fold. The
parable of the good Samaritan was brought home to ·them, as it never was
before; and while our Craft needs no commendation, no thanks, nor testimonial, it is gratifying to know that its principles and teachings have found favor
with many who heretofore have abhorred what they term "Secret Societies" ..
Willingly day after day, with joyful mien, the little band of workers - the
gleaners in the Lord's vineyard of help and assistance,- toiled without murmur, and it was only when it was found that storage for food became the
question, that it was decided to limit the distribution to Masons and their
families oilly. As previously stated, our good brethren of Oakland and Alameda County were supplying us with untold quantities of food of every

description, even to thousands of loaves of br d
. .
of cooked foods made up in a e
·
ea ' as well as appetizmg boxes
out done, and feeling assured tk~e:o: wa~, a~d ~ns. of fruit. Not to be
established (the telegraph lines u asoruc. dist?butmg_ station had been
even· mail facilities and telephone co~::ru:~ tm_ie bem~ broken, 11ond
and ever ready brethren of the b
t'ful S a 10n dis-established) our loyal
.
eau 1
outhland
L An 1
contiguous pl.aces - started food relief trains to thi . ; _os
gees - and
which trains were supplemented b th
f
s Cly, via Alameda county,
e rom Fres.no, Tulare, Sacramento,
Marysville, Chico, Red Bluff, Redako
untouched by shake or fire - and gin thi very port10n of the state - places
6
bedding and other comforts d
.. way, food, carloads of clothing
an necess1t1es were delivered to the t t"
.
this "t
.
c1 y as qwckly as steamer and other mod
s a wn m
We ourselves Calif ·
es of traffic could bring them
'
'
onuans as we are used to r0 digi'
Ii
.
·
dazzled by the quantities of
'd
h P
ous berality, were even
proven er s owered upon
A
f
were the poor profane who w r
. . bo
us.
s grate ul as
grateful were we and pen nor etoe rece1vmg unty at our hand, so much more
.
'
ngue cannot find words to
ha
have said, could we have reach d
say w t we would
those remembering our sad pli ehtany;11~ ~ll of God's thoughtful angels our then necessary and instantg ;n w1~ bounteous offerings carini;t for
ared
ur gratitude was s~ent, but our
prayers for their every success in
ly proclaim. Kindl and frat
ma e amen<:Is for what we did not publictogether in the bond; of peace =acts such a~ thes~ do not a little to draw
race, and is hastening the t~e w:en: and lastmg fnendship all tif the human

a::

;7c:

"Man to man the world o'er
Shall brothers be for a'that."
The distribution of food and clothin was c .
.
day, April the 23rd, at your solicftati ontmued n~ht along, and on monWorshipful Sir a relimina
.
on, as also Will and Pleasure, Most
at the tempor'aryp office of~:e:r:;
c~ll~~atGten o'clock in the morning,
diction, in King Solomon's T
1 N ors p
rand Lodge of this jurisemp e, o. 1745 Fillmo e St
t hich
were present nine brethren incl din
r
., a w
there
to your more than fervent ~p ~ t g yo~ honored self, who after listening
there is strength - the best ped o otrgffalllZ~, so that together,- as in union
an mos e ect1ve work could be d
lim
·
.
'
mary organization was effected at which th f0 ll .
one, a pre were elected:e
owmg temporary officers

;8

: · Bro. William Frank Pierce, President.
· Bro. Harry Joseph Lask, Secretary.
(W W.
B Bro. Harvey Davis Loveland, v·ice-Pres1"dent
. ro. Loveland, on account of illness, soon after. .
.
was filled by the appointment of W B
B ·1 f
resign~, and hi~ place
W. Bro. Otto Fr nk W
hal. ro. n s ord Pease Fhnt ).
.
a
estp , Treasurer.
A plan of action was immediately map·ped out and the work began .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

268

"CALLED TO LABOR"

Sub-~tations were established, committees were appointed, and the real
work of the Board commenced. The name chosen was:
GENERAL MASONIC RELIEF BOARD
As a compliment to you (moreover deserved) you were induced to
accept the Honorary Chairmanship.
At date of Thursday, April 26th, due and timely notice having been
given a meeting was held at 9.30 o'clock in the morning, at whi?h there were ·
prese~t the officers as before named an? a .majority o~ the el~ct1ve officers of
the several branches of Maaonry in this city. At this meetmg, the officers
elected at the preliminary meeting of April 23rd were made permanent; and
words of commendation for what had already been done, was t~e key-~ote of
all who spok~. Further and more amplified means of extending relief was
discussed and dete:nnined upon, and with every assurance by yourse~ that
ample funds were at the command of the Board, for any and all calls, it was
ordered that a general assemblage of all Master Masons ~e r~qu~ted to meet
and confer with the Board on Monday, April 30th, at which trme it was hoped
every Master Mason in this city would lend a hand to aid the distressed and
those requiring relief.
"Blest be the tie that binds."
On that date, at 9.30 o'clock hi the morning, the meeting took place, and a
more enthusiastic gathering of Masons n~ver assembled. All seemed to be
imbued with the one thought of helping those who were in need of assistan~e,
and the attendance was so large, that many had to content themselves ~th
remaining int.he lobby, and catching here and there a word of what was ta.king
.place in the meeting room. Volunteers ~ere call~d for 1'.<> take cb.arge of
districts in the unburned portions of the city, and 1Il less .trme t~an it ta~es
to record this over two hundred brethren had offered their services to assISt
the Board in
~ork. Districts were outlined, all points were covered, and
a general plan adopted whereby none should be ov:erlooked who needed help.
It was also resolved that the Masters and Wardens of all the blue lodges,
as well as the first three officers of every branch of Maso~, the wom?n relatives of members of the fraternity, should form an adv1~ory co~1tte~ to
this Board, and that meetings should be hdd every morrung, at which trme
the general work of the day should be determined upon, an~ ways and ~e~ns
adopted for carrying into effect a~d the best meth~s of carmg for and aiding
the distressed and homeless. This advjsory committee met for several .weeks
and did much to carry out the noble work outlined by yourself. Durmg ?'11
this time, the officers held frequent meetings and e?1arged the scope of its

its

labors.
It was believed that the addition of two well known Craftsmen as offi~rs
of this Board, and to serve with it in an advisory capacity, would extend its

'

269

sphere of usefullne1;1s, and in consonance with this, R . W. Bro. Jacob Hart
Neff, Past Junior Grand Warden and Bro. Charles Lord Field were made a
part of its executive. The question of employment being brought to the
attention of the Board, it was decided to call a general meeting of the Craft
for Sunday morning, May 13th, and on that date at 10 o'clock, a monster
meeting was held when the immediate necessity of providing situations for
those of our brethren who had lost their employment was brought up, and
sub-committees were appointed to report to the Board any employment that
could be had for those in need of places, and more especially to visit those
members of the Craft requiring help, and acquaint them with the fact that
many of the brethren were in need of employment, and if possible, to give
Masons a preference in engaging help. That meeting was the means of
placing many a Craftsman on his feet, and giving him an opportunity of supporting himself and family, as well as relieveing this Board of much of its
work. Hundreds of positions were found for our brethren, and while scores
of the places accepted were not equal to those held by them previously, still
there was not a murmur of discontent from any one, but on the contrary,
words of thanks for being able to earn a living, were heard on all sides. All
this time, food was being distributed three times a day, and clothing, blankets
and other necessaries and comforts of life bountifully given. The best of
feeling prevailed, and happy, smiling countenances, not withstanding the
terrible ordeal through which they had passed, were the rule and not the
exception.
"And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor
and though I give my body to be burned,
And have not charity, it profiteth me nothing."
The Board also from its inception was furnishing transportation to all
part.a of the world to those who solicited it. It was the policy of the Board not
to give transportation to any able bodied man whose home was in this city
who desired the chance of going to some distant state or country, either for
recreation or to get'away. The need of our men remaining here became more
apparent daily, and it was only to those who had been sojourning here that
such free transportation was given, but no objection to granting it was made
women and children, as they were better off out of the city than in it. The
several railroad and steamship companies gave this Board half-rate fares,
and to them our thanks are more than due
The quarters of the provision department proving inadequate on
account of the great amount of food being distributed it became necessary
to move to a larger place, as well~a.B ask for more volunteers to help in distributing the food. As time wore on, a better system of food distribution
was put into effect. Regular hours of giving out supplies were established
and orders were required from each person applying for the food, an apportionment on the lines of government rations being applied, thereby giving to each
person enough, and still not that over-abundance which might create waste.

270

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Our brethren in charge of this department worked with a will, sometimes
remaining on duty as long as eighteen hours a day, still putting in their time
cheerfully and with never a murmur of discontent. They wanted to please
as well as help their brethren and families and succeeded so well as to ea.rn the
gratitude of ell. ~ j ~
The general offices of the Board were also found to be too s~all and
cramped to efficiently conduct the relief business, which was growing instead
of les.sening, and accepting the generous offer of R. W. Bro. Jac~b Hart Neff
to occupy the splendidly arranged and fitted lower floor of his home, on
Monday, May 7th, the hee.dque.rteis of the Board were moved to 1154 O'Fa.rrell Street, where it has remained &ver since. The word "generous" .is used
above in speaking of the offer from Bro. Neff. It is but a mild adjective, as
·R. W. Bro. Neff has steadily declined to accept remuneration of any kind, and
has even when extra necessities were needed, ·paid for the same himself, and
positively declined reimbursement. The provision department was also
moved, notwithstanding the fact that the location was away from the "maddening crowd", the demands upon us.were even greater than ever. Our hel~rs
were equal to the occasion and no matter how large the number, or pressmg
the demand, all were served, and bountifully at that. Carloads · of c:1moked
and canned meats were sent to us; tons of California's most luscious and
succulent fruit, flour, coffee, canned goods and thousands of loaves of bread
handled, and everything that heart could wish for was donated by our thoughtful and beloved brethren in all parts of our country and state. Dainty boxes
of cooked meats and eggs, together with fruits and canned goods were sent by
the wholesale.
As many of our brethren were destitute of clothing and bedding (inchiding their families) and a.s it became apparent that the external ~ well
as the internal part of their body must. be cared for, the women relatives of
our brethren were pressed into service and by courtesy of Pastor J. Fuendeling of St. Mark's German Evangelical Lutheran Church, the spacious basement of his "House of the Lord" was given for our use, and in it was stocked
a plentifcl supply of every kind of clothing, including outer and underclothing,
not excepting warm comforters and necessities for the baby, as well as the
aged. The Red Cross Society donated upwards of fifteen hundred dollars
worth of f§Pvernment shoes, besides tents, mattresses, blankets and woolens.
The women were placed in full charge of the clothing department and the
requirements of all of our fraternity who applied were supplied. This establishment wa.s maintained until August 1st, when it was deemed best to concentrate the entire work of the Boe.rd under the direct supervision of its
officers, and the department was moved to a large storeroom near our offices
and marui.ged directly from this office ·
"Never sitting down conten~ed w:hile o~ ~el}.ow creatures
a.round us are in want, especially when it 1s m our power
to relieve them."

1

271

During the first number of weeks of the inception of the Boe.rd, many
thousands of dollars were advanced both to lodges and individuals, who did
not desire our offering, but only asked for an accomodation in the shape of
a loan until such a time as the banks should reopen, or their business so
arranged as to permit them to obtain what was really and justly theirs.
Bank accounts were cashed, cheques paid, money advanced on insurance
policies, the stipendiaries of lodges and the local Boa.rd of Relief taken ca.re
of and the bills and other urgent acco\.Jnts due by lodges paid. All advances
were me.de at their face value, no discounts were taken and no profit attempted, as it was the policy of the Board to assist all of the Craft needing help to
the fullest extent of the meaning of the word "ASSIST". Nearly every loan
or advance so me.de has been repaid, and in many cases the Board was asked
to accept a profit, but in each case the proffer was declined with thanks.
":aenew our ho:i}e, inspire our faith."
Telegrams of offers of help in. the shape of money came in daily and before
a reply could be sent accepting the same, package after package of coin and
currency was being delivered into our Treasurer's hands. Our distant breth~
ren were not slow in showing and proving the metal of their great big-heartedness. Action followed words, and tangible action at that·, and at no time from
the commencement of the work of relief was there· a moment but what ample
funds were at hand to meet any and all exigencies that might arise. The
Board received inspiration at all times· from you, Most Worshipful Sir and
Brother, as every letter and telegram sent by you gave us to understand
that your heart and influence was with us in our work, and you desired the
broadest and most liberal charity shown. Such words as those kept us
filled with a love for the labor we were engaged in, and while we heard nothing
but pitiful stories and saw nothing but sorrow and helplessness, we were
imbued with a spirit to keep on and work the harder for our poor distressed
brethren who had suffered so keenly from the calamity that had befallen us.
In this we were nobly aided by hundreds of our brethren, each of whom
volunteered to share part of our work at any and all times, day or night.
We were in the midst of most trying times, but never undaunted, and our
motto was Nil desperandum. Our only thoughts were to try and alleviate
suffering. and how well we succeeded remains for those assisted to say.
"Charity extends beyond the grave through the
boundless realms of eternity.'
Besides the work of feeding the hungry, clothing those bereft of almost
everything, supplying beds and bedding, furniture, stoves, cooking utensils,
crockery and cutlery, and temporarily assisting others by finding employment for them, and a hundred and one other things to lighten the burden of
their woes, we have cared for and visited the sick, administered to the dying,
buried the dead, traced and recovered lost ones, returned children to their
parents, effected reconciliations, and have thrown the strong protecting arm
of Masonry around many, some of whom would have had injustice done them

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

272

27a

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and what little they ·had taken from them if not for our intercession.
Through our influence the amounts due from fire insurance companies on
losses have· been obtained, appraisements on losses have been increased at
least twenty per cent, and as high as fifty, and proportionate payments made
on fire insurance matters,· and proofs of loss have been prepared. We have
cashed claims due from the City Relief Finance Committee and Red Cross
Funds, and have drawn legal documents, including agreements, leases,
powers of attorney and other papers. In fact, this Board has performed
and accomplished more than is known, and has even conducted women and
children to the steamers and railroad trains, moved their personal effects
and belongings, assisted them in leaving the city, and attending to their
every want, so that their departure might not only be safe, but s~ gua~?d
as to prevent any confusion or accident arising. We have assisted m rep~1r­
ing dwellings and chimneys, and making houses habitable, as well as rentmg
houses and rooms for many and finding places of abode. The members of
the Board have been at the call of any and every unfortunate, night and.
day, even at "low twelve'', and every case requiring attention has be.en given
immediate help, our motto being "Quick action and needful assISta~ce" ·
Many have been the hurried and wild automobile rides in the dead of rught,
to care for the sick or dying. Physicians have been called, nurses engaged
and hospital se,rvice attended to as quickly as v.ehicles could carry, and often
it has been an all night watch of care and solicitude, but in the end a labor of
love - errands of mercy - with results which fully repaid us.
It has been the endeavor of the Board to keep the expense account as
low as possible. No money has been squandered or _frittered aw~y; nothing
has been purchased in the way of office or other supplies not essentially _ne~es­
sary and the salaries have been fair but not exorbitant. At the begmrung
of 0 :U labors and for some weeks thereafter. it was imperative that some of
our helpers be paid, as they had families to support, and having themselves ·
lost everything by fire and being in the same unfortunate position as thousands of other sufferers and their loved ones having to be fed, clothed and
housed it was no more than right that some small return be given them. Had it
not b~n that we were able to employ them, we must of necessity have relieved them out of the funds at our command, and by giving them something
to do and reasonably compensating them, we saved an amount of money
which otherwise we would have had to doimte, and at the same time, made
them independent. They earned all they recived, in fact they did not receive
enough, but considering what we were constituted for, we did not d~~m it
fair to give them their full worth in pay and they felt as well that it was
incumbent on themselves to give part of their time and services for those who
were in a more unfortunate position than they.

It was decided by the Board after it had been in existence but a short
while, to conduct its affairs as practicable as possible and in aiding those who
might seek our assistance, to apply what is known as practical charity .to our

J

donations, that is, so far as could be applied. To this end it was decided
that true charity consists in helping people to help themselves. From ex:perience it was known that to give an applicant any sum of money at one time
and not try to help him so thii.t he could help himself would be no charity
or assistance to him whatever, but would rather make him a dependent, and
as our Craftsmen hesitated to accept anything that might be termed "Charity",
we gave all to understand that they were only receiving what was their
rights as pledged by each and all by evi!ry tie which binds us together as
Free-masons. To make this RIGHT more effective and pronounced, we
decided on restoring people so far as we could, to the positio1'l occupied by
them prior to the calamity and we have given sewing machines, irons, pressing boards, shears, etc. to those who were tailors, so that they again might
resume their usual avocation. Instruments have been furnished to dentists,
together with dental chairs and machinery necessary to resume their profession; instruments and books to physicians and surgeons; tools to carpenters,
. machinists and all kinds of mechanics ; sewing machines to women who are
dressmakers and for ·household purposes; wagons and horses to laundry
wagon drivers; and to other tradesmen; instruments and charts to seafaring
men; pianos and other musical instruments to music teachers, performers
and vocalists ; photographic supplies and cameras to artists and photographers; electrical appliances to those engaged in the electrical business and to
apprentices learning that, as well as other trades. No profession, art or
calling has been neglected and while as previously noted, we did not attempt
to overdo it, we have given good and plenty and to use . a common term
"have endeavored to put them on their feet again". Even to attorneys and
counselors-at-law have legal books been given, and it may be surprisinp; to
many, when it is known that of all who have sufferei the most through losses
from the fire, professional men and women take the the front rank. Not
only did many of them lose their valuable instruments, reference books and
tllectro-machinery, but their clients and patients scattered, and their business
since then has been such as to barely give them a living.
"Acting with our neighbor upon the square, rendering
him every kind office which justice or mercy may
require, and relieve his distress and soothe his affliction."
Our influence - the strength of Masonry - has been used in more than
one way. It has been successfully carried out in intercessions with the civil
and military authorities. Our letters have been honored in nearly every
instance, and much good has come to many of our brethren and their families through the influence of letters sent by this board to those high in authroity, oft-times not members of the Fraternity, but who recognizing its strength
and well defined principles which are known to the profane as well as to thoEe
initiated into its mysteries.
Nothing that could be thought of for the welfare of our brethren has been
left undone,. and our every thought bas been to devise means to make all a1
happy as could be under the trying times and to give them all the ·succor, help ·

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

and aid possible. Our only regret at times has been that we_ may not have
done enough for some, but when second thoughts of tha~ kmd came u_pon
us, we have hunted them up and ·made amends for any httle shortcommgs
that may have occured as an error on our part.
"Stop a minute and say Hello" .
As down life's road you smoothly .go,
For a pleasant word and a cheery s~le
Will shorten the road· by many a mile .
For some poor brother who is going_ slow,
So stop a minute and say - Hello"
The funds which constitute the capital of this B~ard were deriv~d from
donations received from yourself, Most Worshipf~ ~ir. a~d _Brother m your
official capacity as Grand Master. of Masons of ~his Junsdic.t1on; from ~early
every "Grand Commandry of Kmghts Templar m the Umted States, from
veral Blue Lodiz;es of different jurisdictions; from Grand Chapters, Royal
Masons and the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite Freemasonry, who
forwarded their contributions to this Board direct, ins~d of to a~d through
you, not forgetting a number of lodges in our state which we beheve sho~d
have their donations returned, as said lodges have eno~gh to contend ~th
at present in caring for their own, for not only has the City of San ~ranc1sco
suffered financially and in other ways, but the whole State has h~d ~ts. sh~re,
therefore, we believe that with the funds already received from Junsd1ct1ons
other than our own, we have ample means, (at least for the present) and
intend to return to our own brethren of this jurisdiction that which they have
sent us. Part of our funds have also come from Chapters of Roy~ Ai:ch
Masons; from Scottish Rite Bodies of the ancient and A_cc~p~d Scottish ~1t.e
of Free-Masonry of both Northern and Southern Junsdict1ons;. from ~d1viduals too modest to have their names made known; from the ?reat Pnory
of England and Wales; from Havana, Cuba; from the City of MeX!co and from
Manila, Philippine Islands. Surely we have not been.forgotten or overlooked. •
anywhere, and from letters which we constantlr: receive, we are assu~ed th~t
if we need more, the donations already made will be double~, yea ~npled, if
we ask, and what is more that the tr~asuriea .~f t~e Masomc bodies are at
our dis posal for the assistance and aid of Califorrua brethren.
d · The funds ·
received by permission of every contributor have been tume mto one com- on fund - that is consolidated--and Masons, whether Blue Lodge, Chapter t or Scottish Rite, have been assisted from this one grand fund,
pective of degree, place or nationality. One fund for all, t~e only qualification being worthiness and Masonic standing, and not any he1~ht of Maso~
·which they may have attained. The spirit of this Fraternity, one of its
strongest landmarks - Equality - ~as been ob.served, and we have no
doubt that the course pursued by us Will be met With favor by every Craftsman who may read or hear of our actions through this report. To our mo~e.
than generous donors, our brethren near and far. from ~' althou~h e~er m
our remembrance, let us quote the old Latin Maxim, which we believe JUstly
applies to them:-

~ch

~emplar

irr~s­

275

"He gives twice, who gives quickly."
Our gratitude is extended for the thoughtful and prodigal amounts sent to
us by those brethren.
·
The business of the office of the Board has been enormous. When it
is realized what it means to receive thousands of communications, telegrams
and inquiries, and every communication, letter, telegram, postal card and
inquiry an,swered without delay, then some little idea may be formed of
a small part of our work. We have endeavored to conduct our affairs on
strict business lines, not forgetting that Fraternity was coupled with the
busin~ in hand, and to each and a~l, whether by written or verbal commun' cation, it bas been our endeavor to answer every communication, not alone
eqiectitiously, but in an intelligent manner, and to give as fully as possible
the informat.ion desired. Our accounts, data and vouchers are in perfect
shape, and although an audit has been had and everything found to be correct,
the intent of Masonry, one of its most sacred tenets that its
charities must be unostentatious and that the left hand must not, know
what the right hand doeth - has been more than strictly adhered to, and
88 will be further seen by examining the schedules of relief extended, neither
the name of the person assisted nor the lodges of which they claim membership are given, and none outside of yoUrAelf and the members of this Bo~rd
are cognizant of who as indi~duals have been relieved, or as to whether this
lodge or that lodge or other body· of Masonry has received ·more or less than
the other. While it has been essentially necessary for the Board. to have the
names of applicants and lodges, their numbers and locations, in order to keep
its records straight, and its finances clear so that the Board of Audit, (a Committee of the Grand Lodge of this jurisdiction), can intelligently pass on all
vouchers of expenditures; no one but thoRe before mentioned have any definite
information of those aided, and under your instructions, never will. The
vouchers after approval, will have been destroyed and thus an effectual
silence of Masonic law and custom faithfully adhered to.
We believe that with the foregoing a synopsis of our labor has been
reported, and we now present to you Rtatistical, financial and other tables
which will show in detail the full workings of the Board.
ST ATJ STJ CAL.

·'
Secretary's Office.
ii
At the commencement of the work, the office force consi,steq. of !l.ll iMisi&~ !w'
ant secretary, an accountant, two stenographers and twenty messengers.
This number was retained for nearly six weeks and until-it was found that it.
could be reduced. A.t the present writing, and for the 11ast. three mohths,:
the office is conducted by a bookkeeper, a stenographer and one messenger.
At the outset, as many. as seven buggies, automobiles, wagons, carriages and
other kinds of vehicles were used and hired in order that distant cases 'for

276

.
·
S" e then the number hae
relief could be immediately given atte~t1~ndail m:ie and' is kept constantly
been reduced, and at p~ent, one buggy : ~
y bo;dinate employees have
at work. It is not a~1ss here to safh~ ;~~:a:uamount of work performed
proved true and loyal m our caus~. ffi .
d faithfulness and not only
by them speaks volumes for their e c1ency an
'
our own, but the thanks of the fraternity are due them.
· CORRESPONDENCE.
· d a nd Answered.
Letters and Telet;rams Rece1ve
LETTERS.

~~~~sbi.~~============~-=====================
California -- - -- --- --- ---- -- -- ------ -·------ -----San Francisco - --- --- - - -- - - -- - - - - -- --- - ------- --

Received
251
823
2007
2239

Sent
296
972
2593
2534

Average per month _ _____ _______ ______________ _
Average per day ___ _____________ ______ ______ ____ _

534
21

5320

639.?
~

~~

Orders for supplies -- - -- -- - - -·- -- -- --- - - ---- - -- Thanks -- -------------------------------------Introduction --- ------------- - -- -- ---- ----- -- --- 'Relative to the sick- ---------------------------Relative to Deaths - - - -- -- ---- -- - - --.- - -- - - - - -, ---

1361
386
413
147
79
683

~~°'.'~~~~~~-==-===============================
Appbcation for relief ---- ------------- --- ------- Y:::1iJ'~~=n~~1?'--=========~=======================
Offers of Assist.a.nee
etc.) - ------ ---- - - -

~~
117
~~~
279

~~s~t~~!o""ci-:M~t;;=:=::::·======:::::=:::::====

2312
Nature of.

Relief--- ----- - ------------- ---- ---------------:Deaths- ---------------------------------------ldiscellaneous __________________ __ --------------M. W. Grand Master_ ___ ___ ______ _______ __ _

1

if~~~fc -:H~~============================~=====

541
1771

~~h~!~~~~======~=====~======~=~====~=====

~~~~n;i;.tio~-===============================
Employment - -:- - - -- -- - ---- -- ----- - - ---==

(C~encal,

2312
Locality
California -- ----- -------- -- --------- ----- -- - ---United States _____________ ---------------------

11715

415
837
1101
707
· 147

. Offers of Assistance (Fmanc1al-)_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - Condolence-------------------- ---- --- -- ---------

1337
975

. 83
1107
331
700
17
37
37

Import.
Miscellaneous _- - -- -- - --- -- -- ---- - - -- -- -- -- --- --- Relative to Masonic standing ___________ ---------Relief (Masonic) ---- ----------------- --- ----- -Missing Persons - - ---- --- - - - - - - --- - - - - -- -- - - - - - - -~-

Telegrams.
Sent - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -.- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -·- Received ---------------------- ----- - --- -------

•

4702
Received ----------------------------- --- ---- --7013
Sent -----------------------------------------------Classification by locality.

277

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Provision Department.
All told when this branch of our work was at the highest point, there
were fully forty of our brethren who assisted in the distribution of food.
This number finally gave way to six, who had all they could attend to for
many days. They worked tirelessly and without complaint, and were the
means of bringing comfort to the hungry and needy. Connected with this
department were four drays and six wagons, each of which made innumerable
trips daily, obtaining cases of food, clothing and bedding at depots, etc., and
distributing orders to those unable to come to us, by reason of infirmity and
old age. When we discontinued our provision department (June 2nd) we
turned over to the Salvation Army about six tons of provisions, consisting
of hams, bacon, canned meats, canned fruits, cereals, etc
Food Distributed.
Tot.al Rations Distributed-- ----- -- --- ---- -------------- __ _
From April 21st to June 2nd inclusive, a tot.al of 43 days

74,200

Segregation.

67
9

First
day -------------------------------------Nine days,
av:eraging 6000 a day __________________ _
Thirty-three days, averaging four hundi-ed a day __

~1

2~~

Banks --- ------------------------ - ------------303
City Relief and Red Cross- - ------------- - -------188
Legal Matters --- -- - - - - --- ---- ----- --- - -- ------680
Disposition and Division of Funds-------------- ---- - - - 2705
104t
Average per IOonth- - ---------------- -- ----------.
Average per daY-- - -- ----------------------------

2312

7000
54000
13200
74200

Clothing Department.
11715

This part of our work was placed in charge· of the women relatives of
members of the Fraternity, who were given fullcharge and who arranged up to
and including August 1st, for a nUIOber of themselves each day to take charge.
This gave all an opportunity to assist in the distribution of clothing, shoes,

278

· GRAND LODGE o~ CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

etc. · Since the last named date the department has been under the immediate .
control and charge of the Secretary's office and all distributions are made on
order. The department at present is giving complete satisfaction and our
storeroom has all the articles necessary to make the applicant comfortable
and happy. Prior to date of August 1st, fully fifteen hundred· persons,
(estimated) were supplied with clothing, consisting of shoes; underclothing,
outer wearing apparel etc., the major portion of which was received as donations. Since August 1st, we have supplied at least three hundred and
seventy-five persons with clothing, shoes, underwear etc., also with blankets
and comfortera, sbeeta, pillow cases and towels.
Supplies to the amount of $4961 . 92 have been purchased for this department, same consisting of suits, wrappers, petticoats, skirts, night dresses,
ladies' mens' and children,s underwear, sboes, hosiery, blankets, comforters,
sheets, pillow cases, towels ·a nd table clothes.
Clothing Supplied.

1'otal number of persons clothe:L __ ___ __ ____ ___ ______
Segregation.
To August 1st, (estimated) ____ ____ _____ __ : ______ _
From Au~t 1st, to. date __ ____ ___~ __ ____ __: _____ _

1875
1500
375

-----

1875

279

Number of Positions Secured.

We have secured positions for one hundred a d
t
•
• n seven y-seven persons,
segregated as follows:Tailors -- - -- --- ------ Dressmakers (fitters) - - - -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

~~eip;~-===============~~~--- -=-=== -====--- -

.Political, (Red Cross and City Reli;fF~-~f "Q;- -- :-tt- - -)
mrm ee
Surgeons for Camps

i~~,;~=:~=t:rr~;rf)~t))f;~:;
Shoe Makers
- - - - -- --- ---- - - --- - ---- - !Iarness Make~- ---- --- - - - - - - -- - - -- --- - -- - -- - - -- ---- - Machinists

g~'tt:c1::i'::i
-====~======~===========-=-=======-=-==
arpenters ____ __ __
Stone Masons
Mill !lands --=====-==---==-=---

- ------

5
11

33
9
3
15
4

6
3
2
17
4

5
4
2

9
6
9
15
5
10

(Note: In order that proper credit may be given in this report, as well
as no important transaction or fact omitted, attention is directed, Most
Worshipful Sir and Brother to the additional donation to this Board of
clothing, bedding etc, which you shipped.from Los Angeles, and which according to figures sent by you to us amounted. to $5327. 83. )

The foregoing enumerat"ion °nlY me
· 1
udes our personal
d · di ·d
effort The n b
f
· ·
an m vi ua1
hi
h
er o positions secured, irrespective of the above and of
'
w c we ave ept no record, numbers fully one thousand. ).

Employment.
While no regular employment bureau has been established, we have been
able by individual effort and our influence to supply our brethren or their
kin with a few positions, as a.re more fully enumerated in the following excerpt •
from our records. We could have accomplished more in thie; particular line
had those of our brethren in a,ffluent circumstances requiring help come to ·
our assistance and informed us of their wants, giving us the preference· in
supplyinl them with ~hose of our applicants who wanted postions. We
. trust that l)re long such brethren will affiliate with us and make this Boa.rd
the nucleus of an employment bureau which will prove far better for those
needing our care, than the mere giving of alms and other assistance. It will
make many of our applicants self-supporting and be more compatable with
their own self respect and the digriity of the Craft
·

FINANCIAL.
Contributions to this Board from Most Worshipful Grand
Master
·BR.O. MOTLEY HEWES FLINT
and from Jurisdictions, etc.
From M. W. Grand Master.
April 26,
---------- - -- --- --- - - ----- ----$2025.00
April 28,
---------- ----- --- - ---------------100 .00
April 30,
- ---- - - -- ---------1900.00
April 27,
---------- ------- - 2000 . 00
May 3,
---------- ------- --- ------8000 .00
August 3,
--- ------ ----- ----- .... ____ _ 25000 .00
Sept. 8,
---- - - - - - ----- - - -25000 .00
Sept. 13,
--- ---- ---.----------- -25000.00

177

h

u:

Received from ~urisdictions, etc._
Total donations received ___ ===== =-= ====- -- --

,

. $89025.00
74670.48
$163695.. 48

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
Segregation of Contributions by Jurisdi~tions, etc• .
Jurisdictions.
Blue Miscell- Royal Kru.ghts Sco~tish
Lodges aneous
Arch Tem{lla.r Rite
105.00
476 .50
Arkansas
-----Alabama ______ ____ __

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA.
Total

581.50
40 .00
125 .00 125 .00 100 .00 350 .00
625 .00 550.00
500 .00
1675.00
1075 .00
1075 .00
500 .00 500.00
100 .00
100.00
500 .00
500 .00
350 .00 600 .00 950.00
100 .00
599.00 100 .00 799.00
1625 .00 4631.00 1500 .00 7756 .00
100 .00
100 .00
150 .00
275 .00
425 .00
75 .00 500 .00 50.00 1117.50 40 .00 1782 .50
. 1028 .00 500 .00 1628 .00
100 .00
25.00
50.00 375.00 100.00 550 .00
' 2000 .50
2110 .50
110.00
100.00 150.00
300.00
50 .00
25 .00
1360 .00
1385.00
25.00 1000.00
25 .00
1050 .00
2729 .25
2729.25
2576 .00
2651.00 .
75 .00
50 .00
3595 .25
3545 .25
25 .00
100.00 827 .00 800 .00 1752 .00
250 .00
250 .00
80 .00
500.00 580 .0Q
100 .00
350.00
Nevada --- - --- - ---- 250 .00
1527 .00
1527.00
New Jersey ----- - -150 .00
150.00
New Mexico -------Nebraska _____ ___ __ _
500.00 600 .00 1100 .00
490 .00
490 .00
New Hampshire ---- ·
New York ______ _ 77.00 100 .00 100.00 3072.00 1050.00 4389 .00·,
961.00
961 ,00
North Carolina - - - - North Dakota
580.00
580 .00
25 .00
2266 .60 1050 .00 3341 60
Ohio----- - - - -- - ---350.00
200.00
1365
.00
Oregon- --- - - -- -- __ 815 .00
270.00
270 .00
Oklahoma ----- -- -- Personal ____ ___ ____
1263 .40
1263 .40
Pennsylvania ___ ____
5585.75 1000 .00 6585 .75
550.00
550 .00
Rhode Island - -----South Dakota ___ ___ 50.00
551.00 250 .00 851.00
South Carolina ___ __ 611.05
575.00 970 .65 2156 .70
'l'exas ____ _________ _
250 .00 1025.00
450 .00 1725 .00
257 .00 750.00 1257 .00
Tennessee - - -------- 250 .00
250
.00
250 .00
Utah -- -- -- ------ - 100.00 610.00 50.00 860 .00
Virginia -- ----- - -- -- 100.00
530 .00
530.00
Vermont - - --- - --- -Washington ___ _--"- 640.00 100 .00
320 . 50 100 .00 1160 .50
200 .00
200 .00
Wyon:ring - -- ------West Virginia _____ _
345.00
345 .00
Wisconsin __ ________ _
972 . 53 5000 .00 5972 . 53
25 .00
25 .00
Havana -- - ---- - --- Arizona_ ------ ____ __
C!Llifornia - - - - - - --- Connecticut _______ _
Colorado ___ __ _-- __ _
Dela.ware- -- - ------Dist. Col.-- - --- - - - Florida ___ __ _____ _
Geor~ia __ ______ ____
Illinois _____ _ _____ _
Indian Territory ___ __
Ida.ho ------ - --- - __
Iowa ________ _ - Indiana ___ ____ - - --Kansas
___ ___
Ken.t1;1cky ____ _ ___ _
LoU1s1ana ____ ____ __
Minnesota. _____ ____ _
Montana - ---------Mass. ______ - __ - - - - - Maryland __ ______ _
M~chiga.!1 - ----- - --M1ssoun ______ _ __ __
Mississippi ___ _____ -~
Maine _____ __ __ ___ __

40 .00

England and Wales,
(Grand Pri()ry ) ___
Mexico _______ __ ___ _
Manila ---- - ------- 100.00

1000 .00
100.00
100 .00
4478.05 2888.40 3650.00 47643.38 16010.65 74670.48

•

1000.eo
100 .00

281

Segregation of Contributions Received.
Jurisdictions BlueJodges Miscel- Royal Knights Scottish Total
laneous
Arch Templar Rite
Arkansas____
--- __
- - -_____
- - - - _2
8
10
Alabama
2
.Arizona _______ ____ __
2
2
2
1
5
2
California - ------ - -7
1
10
Connecticut _______ _
7
7
Colorado - - --- - ---- 1
1
Delaware -------- - -2
2
Dist. Col. - - - -- -- __ _
2
2
Foreign __- - __ --- __ _
2
2
4
Florida --- - ---- ___
4
2
6
Geor~ia __-- -- - - ___ _
1
5
1
7
IllinolS
- -------- __
-- _
4
6
2
12
Indian Ty.
___ ____
3
3
Idaho- - ---- ----- - -_
2
2
4
Iowa ____________
3
1
2
2
2
Indiana ____ ___ _____ _
10
2
1
1
4
Kansas ___ _ ______ _
1
1
2
1
Kentucky ________ _
5
2
5
7
Lousiana ____ ______ _
1
1
1
3
:Minnesota _____ ___
1
3
4
1
Montana - ---------1
2
4

Mass. __ _---- ---- ____
Maryland ---- --- --~chiga!1_____
- --- -___
----M1ssoun
___Mississippi _____ ____ _
Maine --- --- _____ __
Nevada
--- - ______
-- - -- - - -_
New
Jersey
New Mexico ____ __ _ _
Nebraska __________ _
New Hampshire ___ _
New York -- - - ---- N. Carolina _______ _
N. Dakota ________ _
Ohio __ __ _______ _ _
Oregon --- -- ---- ---Oklahoma
-- - -- - -__
--_
Personal ____
____
Pennsylvania ______ _
Rhode Island ____ __ _
S. Dakota --- - -- - - -S. Carolina --------Texas-- - --- - - - - - --Tennessee ---------Utah
-- - - ---- v·
..- - _,--rrginia
__ _______ _ _
Vermont --------- - W hin_gton - - - ---- was

wyon_un~ . ·- -- --- ---

18

2
1
1

3

18

2
7

16

2

1

1
2

1
1
1

3
1

10

2

1
1

1

1

3

17
1
4
1
1

3

1
6
1
2

2

10

1
3
4
2

1

6
3
1
3
1

26

21

52
11
1
9

17
65
12
11
7

1

1

9
3
4
3
8
4
6
2

284

34

421

1

6

56

2
1

4

4

w=1scons1n
Vir~ma
--- -- --________
___

1
2
3
1
3

2

1

2

22

14

64
4
4

1

5

45
11

4
8

282

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Disbursements. ·

Incidental expenses -------- _____ -------- _______ _ $ 1437 .45
113.35
Stationery and Supplies ------~-----------------­
3293.25
Clerical Account, salaries -----------------------General Expenses, advertising, Stamps, Telegrams,
3054. 65
etc. ---------------- _______ -------- ____ _______
Drayage Account --~---------------------------1290.00
Furniture and Fixtures-------------------------195.98
Transportation---------------------------------- 10284.30
M~m~y gi".en _for relief--------------------------- 27654.88
Miss10n District ______ ---------- _________ -------936. 40
Loans-----~-----------------------------------2701.80
Burials
-------------------------------------613.25
Supplies furnished ------------------------------ 36696.30
- - - - $88271. 61

~

$4000.00
Summary.
Total Assets __ --------------------------------- $82093.94
Less estimated Aniount Outstanding ------------4000.00

$78093.94

$247131.20 247131.20
Articles Furnished.
Sewing
Machines
-----------------------------------------Stoves and Cooking Utensils _______________________________ _
Furniture and 'Bedding ---------------------~----~--------­
Orders for Clothing (Male) -------------------------------Orders for Clothing (Female) -----------------------------Orders for Shoes
·
Crockery and euu;;y-============================-======='I;'ools for Mechanics and Artisans -------------------------Instruments for Surgeoni!, Physicians and Dentists ___________ _
Lumber ------------------------------------------------~Barber's Implements ___ ---------- ------------- ___________ _

~~~te~-======================-==============

.

Unpaid Accounts.
Orders issued, but not paid for (estimated)---------- $3500 .00
Miscellaneous, including transportation (estiniated )-500.00

Trial Balance Statement.
Close of Business, Thursday, Sept. 13, 1906.
Dr.
Cr.
Cash in the hands of Secretary ___________________ _ $960.95
Bank Account --------------------- ------------ 157787.64 $79158.53
Contributions received from Jurisdictions __________ _
74670.48
Contributions received from Grand Master _________ _
111.00 89136.00
Transportation Account ________________________ _ 10284.30 1492.65
1437.45
Incidental Expense Account -----~--------------Stationek Account ____________________________ _
113.35
3293.25
Clerical ccount -------------------------------3054.65
General Expense Account-----------------------1290.00
Drayage Account ---------- -------------------Relief Account ___ ----------------- ____________ _ 27654.88
79.30
Furniture and Fixture Account _______ -----------195.98
Mission District, Masonic Relief_ __________________ _
936.40
2701.80 2170.80
Loan Account ---------------------------------Burial Account ------------________ _
216.61
613.25
206.83
Supply Account -------------------------------- 36696.30

~~::

Assets.
Cash on hand ---------------------------------- $ 960.95
Cash in Bank ---------------------------------- 78629.11
40.00
Roller Top Desk ---.--------------------------·-20.00
Roller Top Desk ---------·-------- ----·--------FilinH Case ____ ---------- ------- _______________ _
27.00
7.00
Snia Filing Case (Cards)-----------------------97.50
4.38
Stock of Clothing on hand _______________________ _ 1777.00
531.00
Advances (not paid) -------'--· -----------------

One complete set Grand Lodge Proceedings of California 1850 to 1905 inclusive.
One set Printed Proceedings every English ·Speaking
Grand Lodge Jurisdiction.

Gross Assets------------------------------

Statement of Supplies Donated to
Applicants for Relief.
Furniture ___________ -------- _------------------ $14275.86
Coal Stoves, Gas Stoves, Utensils _________________ _ 2996.29
224.75
Tools
for Mechanics
----------------------'-------_
Miscellaneous
___________________________________
51.60
30.50
Miscellaneous---------~-------------------------­
1490.25
Crockery and Cutlery --------------------------673.90
Merchandise __ ---------------------------------48.55
329.70
=========-================================
152.55
Bread~----------------------------------------­
42.05
Groceries
--------------------------------------Trunks _________________________ ,._ ______________ _
37.50
26.25
Eye
Glasses,
etc.
------------------------------Coal_ ___________________________ ______________ _
5.00
Musical Instruments _·_________ ------ __: __________ _
25.35
472.05
Luniber ------------------~--------------------796.03
Lady's Clothing _------------------- ____________ _
2146.70
Men:s Clot~g ~-----------------------------c-2745.50
~:b~a!:c~~~~ H~;pit;.l-]f;;s-;;_~d-M;dic~1-s;~~~= 321.00
613.25
Funeral Expenses ____________ -----·-------------Instruments, (Surgical, · Dental), Photographic and
5095.49
Optical Supplies, etc. ------------------------

283

~:fc<!.?'I!f~~n1fst~.~-================~==============:=-==

$82093.09

PJ;totographer's Sµpplies' ____________ ------------------- ___ _
M:1scellaneous _________________________ --------------------

101
142
311
138
180
60
103
39
50
4
1
1
1
2

65

284

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

UNITED STATES.
Alabama.

Analysis of Amount and Kind of Relief Granted.
by Cities, States and Jurisdictions.
San Francisco

~h8~~~~~0-~=======·===========================
Furniture --------------------------------------

$166.50
Shoes-----------------------------------------Men's Clothing ________________________________ _ 1280.75
566.00
Lady's Clothing __ -----------------------------Hospital Fees ______________ ----------------- --107.00
Chemicals _____________________________________ _
33.25
25.80
Groceries ----------------------------------- __
Repairs on house ------------------ ------------- 16.50

----

Lady's Suit _-- -- --- -- ----- ---- ---- - --------- --Shoes -----------------------------------------Furniture -------------------------------------Utensils ----------- - --- - -- --- ---- ------ ------ -- Gas Stove --------------------------------------

17.00

10535.10
613.52
2343.75
3417 .95
19044.40
664.04
Lumber _________ ----------------- -•----- ___ _
4375.12
-----------------------------------Instruments
Barber Chair _____________________ --------- ___ _
150.00
593.62
Tools --------------------------- -------------14.00
Trunks
-------------------------------------- _
Merchandise
____________________________________
294.98
Drugs _________________________________________ _
11.55
Photographic Supplies ____________ ---'- __________ _
200.00
16.00
2.50
250.00

Furniture and Bedding -------------------------Crockery and Cutlery --------------------------Stoves and Cooking Utensils ---------------------

$134.65

$20.00
3.50
62.60
6.05
6.75

----

Arkansas.

$98.90.

$22.40
30.50
63.40
3.00

Transportation ------------- -- -------- ----------:Merchandise -----------------------------------Furniture and Bedding ______ ------------------- __
Cash-------------------------------------------

6~h8~~~~~t!~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::_-_-:::

119.30
Colorado.

Transportation ___________________ -------------- _
-----------·-------------_
Furniture
and Bedding
Lady's
Clothing
________________________________
Cash------------------------------------------Tools ------------------------------------------

io~:~~~~;s~;i~~---=-=-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-==-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

Connecticut.

$46884.83
California.

$314.84
269.10
13.50
100.00
17.15·

----

$714.59

$80.00
66.60
59.50

Cash ____ ---·- ----- ---- ----------- ----------- - ---

i~~;;a~i~~-==============::::::::: :::::::::::

$206.10

Cash------------------------·------------------ $4252.70
119.30
Tools -----------------------------------------5.50
Drugs -----------------------------------------Transportation ___ ------ ________ ----------------- 1344.45
Men's Clothing ________________________ ------- -469.00
260.00
Ladies' Clothing _______ ------------------------ _
484.00
Machines --------------------------------------Furniture and Bedding -------------------------- 1606.70
233.15
Merchandise
________ r----------------------------_
Ambulance _____________________________________
20.00
Blankets
Stoves
and-------------------------------------Cooking Utensils _____________________ _
Shoes ___________ ---- _----- ------- - -- - -- - -- - - -- Crockery and Cutlery~--------------------------­
Hospital Fees____________________________
---------------------------------Instruments
: ______ _
Gas Range _____ ------------·-- ------------ _____ _

$75.40
20.00
39.25

Arizona.

47.25
~Ji.~~lL~~~
:::::::::::::::::::=========~=====_ 2098.25
Machines _______________________________________

~:i~~ ::k:S_e~-====:::::::::~=::::: == =======: ~

285

Delaware.

$85.00
5.05
63.50
25.00
3.50
30.25

Cash-------------------------------------------

i~i~~a~i~~-============::::::::::::::::::::::
Lady's Suit _________ ---------- ----------------Shoes
-----------------------------------------Merchandise
___________________ ----- - --------- -~-

212.30
District of Columbia.

49.00
17.07
11.00
176.15
49.50
57.53
90.00
653.85
29.05

Cash------------------------------------------Transportation ______________ -- -- -- -'-- - - - - -- - - - - Florida.

$10027 .95

$25.00
190.00

----

Furniture ____________________ --------- -- ------ _
Lady's
Suits
-------- ---- ---------- --------------_
Ambulance
_____________________________________
Transportation _______ ------------------ -------- Cash ------------------------------------------Stoves and Utensils-----------------------------

$215.00

$50.00
42.50
7.50
22.65
10.00
44.14
$176.79

286

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Kansas.

Oeorgia.

Cash-------------------------------------------

$15.00
58.15

Cash-------------------------------------------·
Transportation
__ ------- _____________ ---------- _
---Idaho.

Cash ---------------------------------~--------CoaL ___________________________________________ _

Furniture ------- -------------- -- ---- -- --·--- -- __
Utensils _--- --- --- ------- ------ ----- -- -------- -

~~~ns~~s~~o~-=======-=========================Shoes ___________ ----------------------------Machine __________________ -------------------Chicago.

Indiana.

Furniture -------~-----------------------------Transportation
Machine---------------------------------------__ ----- ----------- - ---~- --- -- --- -Shoes ---------- ------------------------------IJtensils ------------------------ ---------------

Furniture _________ ·________ --- ---------------- -Cash------------------------------~-----------Shoes ------------------------ ------------

Cash------------------------------------------Machine _______________________________________
rte~~pC}~~~~:
-= ===== ======~=== ==== =============_

$77.50
Louisiana.

Cash ------ ·-------- ---------- -------- ------ --Transportation ------ ----- ---- -- ---- ---- ----Ladies Clothing ------------ --------- ________ _
Tools ----------- ------------ -- -- -- ----.--- ---- Men's Clothing ------------ --------------------

~t~ti;~-=======-=======-==================
Crockery and
--------------------------Cu~lery

$443.40
70.00
35.00
12.88
60.00
25.00
13.50

$25.00
110.00

Stove
and ----Utensils-------------.__ __
Furniture
-- ---------------- ____________
______________
lderchandise
________________________ -----------Shoes------------------------------------------

$42.50
9.80
55.70
35.00
14.00
10.55
25.85
13.60
3.50
11.45
$221.95

Maryland •.

$155.00
129.35
22.60
62.25
3.50
7.30

'Transportation ------------· -----------~· ______ _

$30.00
7.75
3.50

$74.50

Massachusetts.

Cash ------------------------------------------Machine ____ ~ ---------------------------------Utensils------------------------------------__
(}as
Stove _____ ----------- -------------------Furniture
_____
-----------------------------M:erchandise _________________ ------------------Transportation _________________________________ _
Ladies' Suits __
__________________ ---------- _
-~--

~rr1:: ~::t~:

(}roceries
------ _________
·-- ______________ =
__
================
====================
.Anlbulance______
_____________________________________

$312.50
30.00
40.55
5.00
150.60
10.25
543.80
37.50
9.50
7.20
16.25
25.00
$1188 15

Michigan.

$41.25
Iowa.

$50.00
27.50

Maine.

$380.00
Indian Territory.

Cash -----------------------------------------Transportation ----- -------- -- ------- --- --- ---- -

$135.00

$355.00
85.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
3.50
90.00

~~~~~rt~ti;~-= ==-·= ====== ===========-== ===-=-= =-- - - - $659.78
Cash -------------------------------------------

$407.15
Kentucky.

$75.00
2.75
37.50
5.00
60.70
28.00

$564.00

Transportation _______ -- ------------------ ------ CaHh ------------------------------------------Men's Clothing ___ ----------------------------Merchandise
-----------------------------------Cash
___ -------·--- ____________________________ _

160.00
234.75
12.40

$73 .15

~~~;==-================================-====
rir::.:icr~~~:: -============== ======== =====-= ====- - - - $208.95 .

Illinois.
Cash ______ -.- __________________________________
_
Furniture
-----------~-------------------------Men's Clothing ________ ---- __ --- _-------- -- ---- -

287

$55.00
20.60
23.00
30.00

Crockery and Cutlery --------------------------Stoves and Utensils -------- -------------------Furniture ·------------------------------------Cash-------------------------------------------

$10.10
31.40
98.40
105.00
$244.90

Minnesota.

$128.60 .•

~p;"rt:~ti;~==================================

$125.00
15.40
$140.40

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

289

Mississippi.

.Merchandise _________________ ____ ___________ ____ _

$29.25

New Mexico •

$29 .25
Missouri

.Musical Instruments ___________________________ _ s 25.35
Transportation _____ ______ -------------- ________ _ 383 .50
Cash ------------------------------------------- 435.00
42.50
.Men's Clothing -------------- -----------------17 .90
3.60
. Tools
Bedding---------------------------------------------------------------------------- -- --20 .25
Furniture_______________________________________
--------------------------------------_
.Machine
25.00

Furniture --------------------------------------

Cash----------------------------- ------------_
Shoes
_____
_______ : ____________________________
Men's Clothing ---------------------- ----------Jlerchandise--- --------------- --------------- ----

$953 . 18

Stove and lJtensils ------------------------------

Machine ---------------------------------------$87 .80

$378.00
3.50 .
42.50
20 . 10
33.85
86 . 10
11.75
61.90

~~=~-~~; ;-; ! ~;!;=!;-;-~; - ; ;

North Dakota.
Cash _______ ___ ____ ____ ___ _____
__ ___ ____ __ _
-.-~- -

$637 . 70
New Hampshire.

ii~:iJ~:s.'.'~~ -==== ===============·= ================

~~tio~-==============-======~~===========
Stoves and Utensils -----------------------------

~:ure
a~<l-c"U't1;i=y-===========================
~~othing
---------------------------------

$30.00
10.00
. 72.50
$112.50

Cash -·-___________________ ____________________ _

Cash

$972.90

~~tio~-==================::==============

$45.00
6 .00
20 .00

$410.00
713 .40
92.43
323.85
27.15
60 .00
40.00
75 .00
13 .25
2.00
4.80
3 . 50
.75
$1766 . 13
$30 .00
$30.00

North Carolina.

$30 .QO
40.30
$70 .30

s 3 . 50

$71.00

45 .00
223 . 50
8.50
141.45

. New Jersey.

Cash
.Men'.s------------------------------------------Clothing _____ __ ___ ------ ----- _____ -- _--- Transportation __________________________ -------.Merchandise
____________________________________ _
Shoes ------------------------------------------

$395.00
7. 00
20 .00
12.50
337 .15
13.50
18.00
144.75
25.00

New York City.

Nevada.

Cash -----------------------------------------Shoes
----------------------------------------.Men's Clothing
__ ---- ---____
--- ------- -------------_
.Merchandise
____________
____________________
Transportation __ _________ ----- ________________ _
Furniture and
-------------------------------------Crockery
Cutlery --------------------------Stoves and Utensils -----------------------------

Stoves and Utensils ____________
~~~~~-====~===============~=============
Funeral Expenses ---------------------------- --J _______________ _

$17.50
25.00
17.50
27.80

Nebraska.

.Machine ---------------------------------------Transportation
___ ----------------- _____________ _
Cash -------------------------------------------

$101.05

New York.

Montana.

~~~~~~~~==================================

~~ti0~-==================================
Shoes ------------------------------------------

$75.00
3 ,30
. 3 . 50
19 .25

$195 ,00
67.13
168 .50
7 .00
19.00

IJ'lansno
$456 . 68

Cash

.

$421.95'

Oklahoma.

:-;~~~~~-==========================.========

$25.00
25.00
$50.00

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF· CALIFORNIA.

.
Oregon. ·
Ca.sh---------~------------------------ -- -- --- --

Pennsylvania.
Transportation ___ ------ - - - - - - - --------- -- ------Cash -----------------------------------------

Stove
------------------------ ·----------------Furniture ___________ --- ----- -- ----- -·---- -- -----

Cash----------------------------------- -- ------

$95.00
$195.00
132.85
7.00
55.00
85.50
38.15

$434.25

$10.00
7.50
16 .00
115-00

~~~f~g -iio~s~-================================----

$148 .50

~~~~i~~-==================================

Suit Case --------· - --- - - - -- ----- ------ ----- ----

$10 .00
8.50

----

::wuth Carolina.
----- ------ ---- --------------

Shoes
-----------------------------------------Machine _______ -- -- -------------------- ---------

$18.50

$89.50
3.50
25.00

----

Tennessee.

Texas.
Transportation ___ ------------ - - ---- -- ------ -- -- Cash--- -------------------------------------

~4s-==== =.== == =·= ===== === ======== ========== ==:=:

~-====================================-----

$50.00
$50.00
$25.00
9 .0()
$34 .00

$172 .15
115 .00

$30.00
3 .50
82.50
24.00
15.00
14.00

$287 .15

$~g:~
Transportation - - - - - -- -- - - -- -- - --------.--- ------84 .80
Furniture --- - ----- ----------------------------.Crockery and Cutlery ---------------------------___1_8_.6_0

Cash

$219.05

Cash --~ - ----- --.--- ---------- -------- ------ ---- -

$163.95

Alaska.

$5 .50

Utah.

100.00
7.00
24.50
32.45

$118.00

Ca.sh----- --------------------------------------

Gas Stove------------------------------

$37.70

~t~;t~~~-====================---------------------!.. __ _ .
West Virginia.
Cash----------------------------------- --------

50
Shoes ___ -- ---- ----- --- -- -- ------ ------ -- --- ----- - $5
-'.-

Furniture - ---------- - - -------- ----------------Crockery and CuUery ------ ------ ---------------

$7. 70
30 .00

Wyoming.

Ca.sh---- ---------------------------------------

Vermont.
Transportation --- -- -- ---- -- ------------ - ------- -

$513.50

Wisconsin.

Rhode Island

Furniture

$95.00 .

$192 .60

$343.25
30.00
8.75
52.25

----

South Dakota.
Ca.sh __ ---- ----- - ---- -- - --- -------------- - ------.
Transportation -- --------- - - ---- ------------- - ---

Virginia.

$40.00
135.10
17.50

~i:~:PGJ~~~~~ -=================================----

291

$15.00
20.00
49.10
23.95
15.00

$169 ..00

British Columbia.

Stove-~d-lJ~--il------ --------- --- - ------- - ---- -

~rtation ~-s-==============================

$143.QO
17.75
12.00
$172.. 75

$123 .05

56 .00
57 .90
$113.90

292

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Canada.
Cash------------------ - ----------- - - -- ---------

~~r;a~~~-==================================
Stove -- --------- ------- ----- - ---- ----- - -- -- - - --

Manitoba.

Ca.sh-------------------- --- ~-------------- -- ---

$120.00
68.75
112.50
12 .30
$313.. 55

Chili.
Truss
__________________________________________
Ca.sh -------------------- ------- - -- ------------_

$55.00
4.00

$59.~~
$56.25
60 .00
S116 .2q•
England
Ca.sh ________________ __________
_______________ _
Shoes ----------- - --- - --- - - ---- ----------------Ladies' Clothing ---- --- ____ -------- -~ ·---- _____ _
Stove ____ --.----- _____ ---- --- ----- - ------------Furniture - -------------- - - - --- --- - --------- - --Cuba.
Transportation ____ __ -- - -------- ----- ------------

New South Wales.
Furniture ---- - --- - - -------- - - - ------ --- - -- ---- Transportation ------------- - - - - .. -·.·--.-",-- .,.---- __ _
Nova Scotia;
Ca.sh --- ___ ---------- ------- _. - - ---------·-~- - .: - _
Panama.
Cash- - -------------------------- ----------- ---Peru.
Cash----- - -- ---- ----------- -------------------Transportation _______________ _:__ ___ _____ ---- - -~~Philippine Islands
'Utensils ----- - ------- - ---- --- - - - - ----- - ---------

.d~

Sl&~'. Wi

~~~t~~t~-~-=================================

Ca.sh ------ -------------------- - -- - ---- ------ - -Portugal.
Ca.sh ______ _____ ______ _____ _______ _______ ________

$7 .50
s7_.5o 1

East India.

Ca.sh:~

$20 .00

Men's Clothing
Central America.

Hawiiati Islands.
Furniture - --------- --- -- - -- ---- -- --- - --- ------ Crockery and Cutlery ------------ ---- -----------

6~~~~~~-==================================
.

Ca.sh ------------------------------------4-----Furniture - ---- -- -- --- - ----~-- ---------------- -Stove and 'Utensili; -- ------------- - --- ------ - -- - -

$69.10
19 .00
75.00
20.00

Scotland.
Ca.sh ______ ______ ________ ___ __ _____ ____·__ ___ _

$8.80

~=~~i~~-= =====·======= ====== ====== ==== ==== =

~ --

~

Furniture ----- ___ ____ ____ _________ ____·_____ ___ _
Coat __ _______ _____ _________ _______ ____ _______ ___

'

---------------~---------------- ---Total
Miscellaneous
items not enumerated 7 _____
__ _ •___ _
$183.10

$30 .00
52 .00
22 .50

Mexico.
Furniture
-------------------------------------Cash
___ ________________________
___ _: _____ ____ ___ . $126.45
35 .00
46 .85
and 'Utensils
----------------- -_
Stove
_______ -____
________ ______--------_____ __ ____
Merchandise
7.50
141.40
Transportation --- -- ----------- --- ____ ____---- - - -

Prince Edward Island.
__ _____ ___ __________ ______ ________________ _

$20.00
, .. .I
$8 .80

Tools

Ireland.

$105 .00
3.50
24.00
7.50
42.10

293

s104.s01

$357 .20

Grand Total ----------------------- - - --.Transportation.
Southern Pacific Co.
· 282 orders were issued on the Southern Pacific Co.,same covering 449
fares, for which we paid to date $5537 . 50.
. 7~ of the above orders were paid for by the persoiis receivipg the same,
we usmg our influence for half rate farlls'. ·
·
Santa Fe Co.
84 orders were issued on the Santa Fe Co., covering 150 fares; for which
we have paid to date $3673. 05. ·
10 of the above orders were paid for by the persons receiving the same,
we getting half rate fares for same.

294

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pacific Coast Steamship Co.
11 orders issued covering 16! fares, for which we have pa.id $145 . 75.
Barneson & Hibbard.
1 order for transportation to"Nome amounting to $40 .00.
Pacific Mail :;. ·s. Co.
2 orders issued for which we paid $87. 50.
Crescent City Transportation Co.
3 orders issued covering 6 fares for which we paid $70. 00.
California Northwestern Ry. Co.
4 orders issued covering 5 fares (not pa.id).
North Shore Ry. Co.
·
2 orders covering 2 fares (not paid).
Oceanic Steamship Co.
4 orders covering 4 fares amounting to $500.00.
Miscellaneous Transportation Companies. $230. 00
.
Summary.
Southern Pacific Co; ------------------------ -- --- $5537.50
3673 .05
Santa Fe --- - --- --- - ---- ------ ------ -----------145 .75
Pacific Coast S. S. Co·-- - - ---- - -- -- ---------- -- - - Barneson & Hibbard ____________________________ _
40 .00
87.50
Pacific Mail 8. S. Co·--------- ---- --- ------- -----70.50"
Crescent City Transportation Co. __________ _______ _
O~eanic S. S. Co· - - - ---------- .-- ~- - -- - - - - ------Miscellaneous _------------ -~ --- - ------- - - - - -- -- ------ $10284 .30

m:88

The transportation .o~ders issued c.~ed. for transportation to all p~r t
of California and the Uruted States, to cities m Canada, to Honolula, Me:nco
Alaska, Australia, and to points in Europe.
Orand Summary.
11715
Number of letters·received and answered ___________ _
2312
Numbers of telegrams received and sent ______ __ ___ _
Number of rations distributed _________________ ___
74200
1875
Number of persons supplied with clothing _____ __ ___
Number of persons for whom employment was secured
177
through personal influence ___________________ _
Number of persons for whom employment was secured
1000
(estimated) ___ --- - - - - -----:-- - --~--- -- ---~-Number of Persons as individuals assisted (irrespective
1468
of clothing) ------- - ----------- --------- - -- ~
Number of -r.ersons assisted (estimated)------ -- ---5872
Total CC?ntributions received~- --~·- ---- -~-- -- -- ---- -$163695. 48
61
588271
Total. Dis~ursements - -.- ---------- --- --------- --3 1040'· 59
Total Relief Granted with.money - - --- -- -- - ---- -. hed - -- -- - ---- --•·- ~32600 · 30
12
Total amount of SuppIies furms
10 8
Total amount of ~ransportatic;>n------------- - -----!
~ 92
· Amount of Supplies for Clothing Department_____ ___
~ ~ :
68
Total expense account __ __ _____ ____ ___ ________ _- - 795904 .66
Total cash on hand________ ____ ___ ______ ___ ______
777 oo
1
Value of Clothing on hand__ ____ ___ _____ ____ __ ____
·
531 ·88
00
Advances (not yet returned)------- - - --------- - --195 ·
Office Fixtures (cost)~-- - - -- - --- -- - ----.- -- -- - -- - 1 · 51
Ratio of expense to relief granted, per ca.pita______ __

3

i·

295

Conclusion.
"He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth,
He toucheth the hills, and they smoke."
Psalm civ, 32.
And now Most Worshipful Sir and Br~ther, we have placed before you
the record of our labors. We appreciate, as officers of this Board, the great honor
you have conferred :upon us by confiding to our care the noble work which we
have endeavored to carry out. It is a distinction to be proud of, in trying
to help humanity and our brethren. St. James declared that true and undefiled religion before God arid the Father is in visiting the widows and orphans
in their affliction and keeping one's self uD.st>otted from the world. Surely
to relieve the distressed and aid all in affliction and to cheer th'em with sympathy is the divinest work in which man can be engaged. Our obligations
of gratitude to all our brethreen who have in any way assisted us, whether
Jjnancially or by their help, or by their good and ~iQ.d suggestions and ready
JeBponse to our appeal for their advice and assistance can never be expressed
and much less recompensed. Words in such a case are but empty thoughts,
their reward must come hereafter, and from a higher power.
This report would indeed be incomplete_without some little recognitio
by name of several of our brethren who have given so freely of their time and
labor and have so unselfishly devoted the best efforts of their hearts to ai
us and our unfortunate in the severest and most urgent cases. To our Bro.
George Henry Boskowitz, M. D., of Doric Loqge No. 216, mode~t and unostentatious, no words are adequate to render to him our gratitude and that o
all the Fraternity for his many acts of professional kindness. Day and night,
always at our command, leaving his large pra~tice to be of service to o~r
sick and dying, he has gratuitously given his skill, and we would be truly
iangra.teful did we not here mention him as an example of all that is Masonic
and noble.
Our Bro. Roland English Hartley, M. D., Past Ma8ter of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260, is also here placed on our roll of honour, for always and ever
ready to visit and care for the sick, following· his every obligation to aid his
brethren whenever and wherever in distress.
To Bro. James William Ward, M. D., of Crock~tt Lodge No. 139, we are
under the deepest obligation. Occupying the position of President o f
the board of Health of this City and County, it has been our good fortune
to have him as a member of the Fraternity and to personally know him as
a man and physician: All the influence at his command has been freel
.granted to us. Position after position has he given those of qur brethren
qualified .to fill the same. In such places where he needed men, e,nd th e
hospitals under his control have been the haven of many. a poor unfortunate
demanding his attention, with the best of care and skill given them to restore
health and happiness.
·Others too numerous to mention, of the same profession, have served us
or offered their ·services and to all .we can truly say THANKS.

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We also extend our thanks to Bro. 'Arthur William Foster of Oriental
Lodge No. 144, President of the California Northwestern Railway Company
and the North Shore Railroad Compil.ny, for furnishing transportation
without co11t, to many of our brethren. Although importuned many times
'tci ·accept remuneratiOn, Bro. Foster has at all times refused, saying that it
was as little as he could do to assist this Board in that manner. To Bro.
Louis Glass, Past Master of California Lodge No. 1, Vice-President and General
Manager of the Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company we are ·
indebted for free telephone service, a matter of considerable import and saving
to us, and one duly appreciated.
To Bros. Abraham Isaac Bloch and Louis Bloch of Fidelity Lodge No.
i20, we also extend thanks for many courteous acts in furnishing us with
supplies for our office, for which although strongly importuned to 11-ccept pay,
have refused, each time saying that what they or either of them could do for
the welfare of their afilicted brethren they were only too happy to do so and
were glad of the opportunity to give their mite.
To the Very Worshipful Grand Secretaries of every English Speaking
Jurisdiction and to the subordinate officers of Blue Lodges we are indebted for
many courtesies, always ready to answer our telegrams and correspondence,
as well as to perform any and all favors we have requested from them,we appreciate their efforts for us and so record .it.
. To the various transportation companies, both rail and steamship ln
this city,· to the daily newspapers, to tradesmen with whom we have dealt,
and to countless others· in many and devious occupations and positions, we
extend our gratitude for many acts of kindness, only hoping that we may be .
able to show our better appreciation for what they have done for us than by
the simple word THANKS.
We cannot conclude this report without mentioning what in our opinion
is the present condition of unfortunate and distressed members of the Craft
and their families in this City. At the present time we firmly believe that
all who suffered either physically or financially, or both, from the earthquake
and fire, to be in fairly good condition, that is so far as immediate wants and
necessities are concerned. All their wants have been met as fully and as to
their needs as has been possible, and while we admit that there may be some
whose wants may not have been made known to us, those who have applied
or been sought, have had · everything done for them that could be, and
that all of these are comfortably situated at present and are nearly above want
of anything. That, for the past and present, but the future is ':vhat is troubling us. We grieve to say that we fear .for the future. We are fearful of the
approaching winter. This may seem pessimistic, but to be truthful, we must
say so, although we should have preferred to have taken the other view, and
would have done so, had we the slightest belief in the roseate word -<>ptimi.&tic.. While the people of this city are to be give~ every credit, and which is
no more than deserving, for their fortitude in the hour of affliction, and their

GR.A.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

'

297

well meant intentions for the rebuilding of our beloved city, still there are
oonditions which seem to us will bring on an era of dull times, and how far
that will affect those of our brethren who have lost their all, remains tci be
seen. One cannot but admire the joyful, smiling and contented faces met
every day; a universal cheerfulness and thankfulness; no one seems to be
discouraged, although many have gone through enough misfortune to make
them anything but hopeful; but in every case and especially those cases
with which we have directly dlJ!llt, it is to be said that the first one has to·
be met who ha!! look!l<i despondent, and was not bright and cheerful, with
hope for the future. We have heard them utter thanks to God for their and
their family's lives being spared, and that it was no worse. All seemingly .
cheerful and happy under the worst conditions. Among the many, temporarily ·
housed in tents in our parks and vacant building lots, are some of our own
fraternity ..Whether they will procure permanent abodes for the winter remains
to be seen, and those who clerk for a living whether they will be retained in
their positions, or if so, whether the compensation will be enough to keep
them and their family (if they have one) in fairly good circumstances. These
are conditions that confront us, as well as some of our brethren who up
to this time have weathered the storm, and have not applied to us for assistance, as they have been able thus far to care for themselves without requiring
the aid of us or from any other source. W~ hope and pray for the best, but
if we are correct in our conclusions as to. the future, we desire to so husband
oilr funds so as to be able to relieve any and all who may require Masonic
aid iµid assistance. It is true, notwithstanding a· denial in some quarters,
that living and other expenses have increased beyond measure or reason, and
a person who has to earn his daily bread, and whose earnings are limited, will
need and require our help and we want to be prepared for that contingency, if
it should arise. While we do not desire to continue the existence of this
Board a day longer than is actually necessary we feel that its life should be
tarolonged for a reason~ble time, and until the last one of our brethren who
needs help is firmly placed in a position to help himself. We believe in going to
the limit and extent of our obligations taken as Master Masons, and we fully
realize that in so doing we are sacrificing many of our own interests, but so
long as we are helping our fellows, we are more than willing to make such
acrifice. We can here quote with due regard to its truth the following excerpt
from the writings of a most Worshipful Grand Mastel' of a sister jurisdiction.
"No longer are men banded together in our Fraternity to erect physical
lltructures or overcome physical foes. The LIGHT that we follow leads to
a keener insight, a better understanding, and a nobler expressio~ of the
human faculties. The materials with which we labor are constituent elements of
every human being and our purpose is to learn how to use the materials to
[DOnstruct temples of the MIND and SOUL which will be pleasing in the eyes
of the Great Architect of the Universe."
And now Most Worshipful S~r and Brother, having placed before you the
record of our acts as a Board of relief, constituted by yourself for the aid of

298

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the distressed and needy of our Fraternity who have suffered and withal
bourne that suffering with patience and.fortitude- "whereby we are enabled
to undergo any pain, peril or danger, when prudentially deemed expedient"it would indeed be neglectful in our feelings towards you, did we not proclaim
how grand and noble has been your every effort to inspire us with courage to
carry on the work which you defined and in which you have taken so great
an interest. Time and again, letter after letter, telegram, personal presence
and eommand, have you wished it to be made known how broad and liberal
our aid should be; how strict rules, regulations and statutes - technicalitie&should be brushed aside in this more than awful disaster, and how our brethren
". and their own should be aided. How all the powers possessed by you as Most
·worshipful Grand Master would be invoked to help us in carrying out your
views and although we might err in some cases in granting relief, that it was
better to err on questionable applications·than that one worthy appeal should
be refused, and the innocent be made suffer. How at the risk of your own
healih and life, you came to our city during the most trying times and not
only inspired us by your presence, but with your good reason1 argument and
kindly and generous nature, spurred us on, when by overwork we were almost
ready to collapse. These things have not been forgotten, but are fresh in
our memory, and if we have accomplished any good, if our work has been
fraught with that good result which we learned as Masons when we were first
admitted to the LIGHT - "and the greatest of these is charity" -then
has our membership in the great Fraternity been of some avail, and that
·good has been more prominetly brought to the surface by what you have done
as our leader, and from whom we derived our inspiration in at least trying
to help our fellow men.
Your intentions h.a ve been of the best; you have 'done your duty and·
that only, and in a,.small way at that, we have tried to assif't you~ "Your
fratern~ garb is not folded like a disused garment .but is so worn in your
intercourse with your brethren that when the Great Grand Master shall send
forth His Angel to summon you before him, it may prove a vestinent fit to
wear in the House Eternal in the Heavens'."

. P A..X VOBISC UM
Fraternally submitted,
•
HARRY J. LASK, .
Secretary

~RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

'

299

.
Oakland Report of Masonic Relief Bureau
OAKLAND. CALIFORNIA

..OFFICERS
M :x:c:TIOVEk.-1MdosMt Worshipful Motley H. Flint, Chairman, Dr. . R. W.
asonic Relief Bureau and Brothers Chandler, Burrell,
ee o t e a an
Hart, Rutherford, Roeth and Gunn.

FlNANCE.-;A. W. Burrell, J. W. McClymonds, J. F. Chandler.
PRINTING.-Thomas Miller, Roy Farish, J. H . Taylor.
AuDITING.-W. H. Craig, W. G. Mobley, Fred W. Hersey.
BEDDING AND CoTS.-John W. Guilt, Albert Schulte, William G. Crossman.
TRAINS. -A. J. Waterhouse, W. I. McDoQB.ld, H. T. Helfer, Dr. J . C.
Gilbertson, P. L. Faulkner, C. J. Frederick W. F . Frederick E J Reed H
I. Jones.
·
'
' · ·
• ·
HousING.-Charles A. -Gibson, G. H . Goodwin, T. K. Fox, H. F. Starbuck, A. C. Baumgartner.
SUPPIJES.-Constant M;eese, J . H. Hunt.
FERRY BUILDING.-J. H. Taylor, Geo. A. Cookerton, A. B. W~bster, D.
.~uthe~ord, W. E . Logan, C. C. Hemler, J . L. Lockwood, A. W. Burrill, W.
H. Craig, J . W. Evans, A. F. Gunn, A. R. Burrill.
·
. The mystery of Masonry, the craft of Freemasons, has from the inception_ of the order been discussed freely by those without its ranks. No conclusion, however, has ever been arrived at other than that to. know the secrets
of the lodge, one must become a member.
But t~t ~asonry has done an enormous amount of good in different
ways and d1~ctions ~ lo_ng been .agreed upon. One of its mos~ noteworthy~ts of chanty and rehef m the history of the organization, was that followmg .the earthquake and fire in San Francisco on the memorable morning of
Apnl 18th, when the greater portion of that city was reduced to a heap of
lllloking ashes and ruins.
It is of these a!fairs t~at we now have to deal, and folloWing a description
m general of the disaster m both San Francisco and Oakland the many acts
of self. denial on the part of the members of the Ma.sonic frate~ity on the Oakland side of-t~e bay; the num~rous worthy deeds done and the countless steps
~ken ~ alleviate much suffenng and to provide for the destitute, will .be told
m detail. For although the thousands of charitable deeds of Masonry rarel
£ach the ears of the general public--it being a rule of the order to act in a~
.

300

unos~ntatious manner-the acts of the Masons in this particular seems justly

p~b~c propert~ and the occasion demands and has demanded from the be-

ginnmg, a public record of the work done and the good accomplished·.
Be~ore goin~ into the history of the disaster itself, it will be well to state
that among the most willing 'worker8 with the . Masonic' lodges was Mayor
Frank _Mott. He was tirelesa at.his task .and did much to aid the Masonic
fraternity.' Ea~h night between the hours of 10 and 12 o'clock he was in close
consulta~1on with Dr. R. W. Meek, chairman of the Executive Committee
and pr~1dent of t~e Oakland ~asonic Relief Bureau. And another worthy
of the highest pra180 and consideration is Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint,
Gr~nd Master of Masons of California. he was an enthusiastic worker for the
relief of the refugees and provided the Oakland Relief ·Bureau with ample
funds, the same having been sent to him from all over the United States. The
fut~ work of the Oakland Bureau will be continued along the same lines
un~il all of those who were in distress by the disaster of April 18th, have been
relieved,
Towar_d the end of this report, it will be noticed that the expenses and
gene~l ~elief work are bunched in figures, it being ahnost imposaible to de-

termme JUBt where the money went or into which channel it was forced without _going through the entire list of vouchers which are in the hands .of the
?m1rman of the executive committee and the President· of the Masonic Relief Bureau.
·
.
It is with great pleasure for this committee to make special menti~n of
the n~mes of Mrs. Mary M. Van Court, Mlsa Kate Clarisae Morris and Mrs. ·
Caroline W. Emery who were most obliging and who worked for the relief of
total strangers just as though they had been of their own flesh and blood.
Treasurer Georg~ Roeth is also one who is deserving of special mention. He
w:ork~ day and night and was ever of uncomplaining disposition. Without
~s.asaIBtance the Relief work of the Masonic Bureau, would have found con
d1tions much wor:se than they were.
On the ID;o~g of April 18th., last, a day and days to follow long to be ·
~me~bered, it seemed that the world had run its course. There were few
mhab1tants ~f San Francisco who were of an opinion other than that theij;.
last day had come. The day had dawned as cahn and peaceful as a summer's
dream. Yet there was an oppresion, a feeling of unrest, a horror of something
that was about· to happen but could not be foretold. Many tell of an uneasiness that seemed like the approach of unwelcome death. Others felt the
nervousness.which precedes an illness; and the rest of the city slept. ·
Those who have taken notice of the hush and indescribable r:iilence of the
~oods; who.have heard the mournful soughing of the winds through the pines

Just at the break of mom; have heard the wierd cries of the birds and beasts
of the forest.a as nature fr?wns and takes on a darkened aspect; have listened
to the creakmg and groanmg of the trees like one in pain· have seen and heard
a flash and crash of lightning, a i;-ar· of thunder followed by a sudden hush as

301

GR~ND Lo~E OF CAJ:IFORNIA.

PR<>.CEEDINGS OF THE

•

llJough all nature were at rest, can picture in· the minds eye to a slight extent
the first 6.erce rockings and wrenchings of the .earth_ and subsequent happ~n­
ings mhich threw the minds and hearts of the mhab1tants of the doomed city
into a state of alarm and desperation.
·
The darkness had hardly faded from the sky whell" the first shock came.·
It was terrific in its intensity. . It seemed ~wish to blot a~ ~hinge from ~he
ooast. There was a crash of chimneys, fallmg walls; and bn_1ldmgs,~tmg
round in fantastic dances,-leal;led far toward each other m the streets and
all but tumbled wrecks of their former selves. For a moment there was a
lull, a. breathing spell. Then appare.ntly from. the bowels ?f the ea~h th~re
came up a roaring .as from a ~en of wild beasts followed. b~ Jar after Jar whi_ch
ehook the city to its foundat10ns. The qua~e was temfymg, absolutely hideous a JllOnetrosity .in its acts. It seemed th!l-t there would be no end to the
~- People ran screaming from their homes· only to locate in even more
~erous places. Domestic animals such as cats and dogs, were bewildered
nrllrn ·
nd scurried about with their masters in search of a place of .safety,
: _,mewhere that quiet could be ~ound. But ~t was uselesa... In eyery direction there was ruin and desolation. Everywhere the conditioil!J were the

same.

.

.

.

The earth's crust was shaking, quivering, .wrenching to the right and left
and in other opposite directions and it seemed that nothing could survive the
lbock. Then all at once things seemed to find their equilibrium. The groans
of the wounded and dying ceased, those who had escaped unharmed stood
amazed and the most. hideous and mind-wrecking character of it all, was the
ghastly, unearthly silence that followed.
It aeemed like a tomb in the open streets. Not a thing of life seemed to
move or breathe. The seriousness of the situation could n,ot at first be grasped.
From all eections of San Francisco .there could be plainly seen the glare of
light on the leaden sky cast by the fires which had sprung up in a hundi:ed
different directions almost simultaneously. The dread cry that water was
not available with which to fight the flames was passe.d from lip to lip and not
unlike Nero at the destruction· of the beautiful city of :Rome, the homeless
eettled down to witness the scenes .of desolation .and ruin.
It was not for long, however, for soon· every available able-bodied man
was preseed into service in the attempt to stay the flames which were fast deYouring l>uildings and property which had survived the tremblor. As the
men fought fast and hard, the women and children were hurriedly carrying
away the belongings from their doomed homes. Many pitiful sights were
witnelllled, many acts of charity were done and through it all the residents
llbowed a spirit of bravery and unconcern IJ).atchless in every particular.
Hardly had the last severe shock subsided before Mayor Schmitz and
other officials of San Francisco were at work attempting to quiet a bewildered
almtitude, and the l!Oldiery-the men· of blue who know not what fear is-the men of blue of both the army and the police force-were soon patrolling

302

PROCEEDINGS OF THE •

the streets to prevent looting and the wanton destruction of property. The
commanders located at the Presidio on that verge of land kissed by the first
waters which fl.ow and ebb from the yawning mouth of the Golden Gate, did
wondrous things on behalf of tlie sufferers. They brought order out of chaos,
stilled the fear which seemed to close the throats of strong men and dependent ·
women and in tens of thousands of ways assisted in the work of caring for
thos~ who had lost their all in the earthquake and fire, ·
Some of the scenes enacted during the first hours of the burning of the
city beggar description. The hospitals and homes for the wretched were
turned into mad houses. Patients who were unable to care for themselves
groaned and cried out with feelings of helplessness, and, the stronger ones,-:those on the way to recovery-ran about like one possessed. Fainting women,
praying men and bewildered children could be seen on every hand and the
work of removing the sick, tlie crippled and the otherwise afflicted to the general hospital at the Presidio was by no mealli! a small undertaking. There
were many nurses, who, from a feeling of duty had worked themselves beyond
the power of human endurance and fell fainting to the floor. This:added to
the already long list of sufferers and for a time confusion reigned supreme.
As the flames, stealthily at times, then noisily and with a roar of defiance
swept their way along the principal streets, many lives were snuffed out. The
dead and dying were tenderly cared for, but those who were in positions to
know agree that San Francisco's death roll would be long in calling provided
everybody had been recovered. The flames and resulting ruins have carefully and completely hidden from human sight all that remains of many who
were once prosperous citizens and beloved members of now grieving families.
For a time it appeared that there would be much illness in the city by
the Golden Gate and that there would be a famine, but these things happily
did not occur owing to the liberality and promptness of the outside cities providing food and clothing and Oakland was by no means the last to come to
the aid of her sister city :which was so sorely stricken. In fact it was through
the efforts of the generous citizens, worthy officials and lodges and churches of
Oakland that San Francisco was not left to suffer and hold out her scorched
and withered hands for succor one moment longer than was absolutely necessary.
After days and nights of bitter strife with the flames which had greedily
consumed millions of dolla!'S worth of property, it appeared that they were
under control, and hundreds, yes thousands of workers, both civilian and of
the army, who had kept the city in a roar with exploding dynamite, the use
of axes and wrecking paraphernalia, sank from utter exhaustion and in their
tum needed the care of thor;ie for whom they had risked their lives that a portion at least of the city's homes might be spared.
Those who took part in .the attempt to stay the flames have stated that
it all seemed like a dream~ that nothing so overwhelmingly disastrous, it. ap-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF.ORNlA.

3:3

--rt to them 1 could have visited so fair a city and they feel that it was far

r--- t of God than-of human effort, that any part of the city was left
mored.an ':_ which many of the thousands of stricken men and women and
.-n
mg
abildren found at least temporary homes.
not long after the excitement -had ~omewhat subsided that tented
I twas
.
d 'th'
·
cities filled with the destitu~e sprang up m many q~arters an WI m an m..,dibl short space of time a regular system of rehef had been adopt?<1 and
. ~ operation by those in authority. True it was that the ''green-eyed
put in
jealousy" crept in to make affairs disagreeable regarding the care
~~~· camps but taken as a whole the affair was most admirably handled.
of_. ...m
'
·
d
ong the hardest workers in the field of desolat10n, care and want were
An am hers of the Masonic fraternity on the Oakland side of the bay who
the mem
.
·
were truly Masons from a lodge standpoi_nt and who looked like .mason~ by
as they struggled and wended their way about the. smoky and gnmetrade
.
•
laden city in their work of relief.
San Francisco was indeed unfortunate. Fr~m e~ted heights among
th
orld's greatest cities, she was suddenly stncken with earthquake and
~ w d cast down so low that she became an object of charity. Her parks
a~otted with the tents of refugees and her citizens were left struggling
0
:" :e throes of recovery and rehabilitation. For a considerable period of time
~er lituation was as an orchestra with every instrument out of tune with every
other IJlstrument, and noise and dissatisfaction, not harmony resulted.
That any man or set of men could solve the problem of peace and regu1 'ty at such a time seems almost beyond comprehension, but it was done
. : done well. The stones and bare bleak walls of "San Francisco appealed
as.eloquent advocates of harmony and decided effort on behalf of her dwellers
and officials and there were few who refused to join in the effort to lift their
city from the position which she occupied. Love of home was never more
"'°roughly exemplified and debris filled streets, wrecked structures and ashes
did not deter many from at least making an attempt toward the reconstruction
and nbabilitation of the city by the Golden Gate.
Through all this terrible disaster by which every hotel, bank, every large
store and nearly every storeroom and wareroom in the city had been destroyed,
the conduct of the three hundred thousand people who were homelessand
thousands more who were left without the means of livelihood, was admirable. There was very little panic and no serious disorder. The rations, tents,
and blankets on hand at the army posts adjacent to the city were dealt out
to the sufferers with no account of the responsibility involved; and within
two days, relief supplies from n~ighboring states and cities and army supplies
from Tarious army posts had begun to arrive and were being distributed.
It is almost useless to attempt to go into detailed accounts of the events
of the days and nights of horror. Four square miles of the city-were soon on
fire. The night was as light as day, and the _roar of the conflagration,. the
crash of falling walls, and the . continuous e:Kplosions made a pande mnium

304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

simply: indescribable. It was 11hortly after this that the members of the Masonic fmternity"began to cross the bay for San Fmncisco to lend a helping
hand to brethren and the affiicted in geneml. And the Masons were well organized.

of Dak}and. Information badges were printed and distributed to every Oak]and Mason so far as known in order that they might be in position to give more
lfticien~ assistance in all directions.

At 2 o;clock on the afternoon of April 20th, two days after the earthquake,·
a called meeting of the members of the several Masonic bodies of Oakland was
held. This meeting, as well as all subsequent meetings, was called to order
by Brother R. W. Meek; who announced that it was on his initative that the·
meeting was called for the purp<>se of organizing for the relief of the brethren
and others who had suffered through the disaster.
Most W orshipfur Motley H. Flint, (,}rand Master of the Masons of California was present and.not only endorsed the movement, but urged it in the
strong~st terµis and pledged the support of the Grand Lodge and the entire
order of the state. · At this first meeting Brother Meek was elected permanent chairmanandhisendeavors during the entire relief work are worthy of more
than passing recognition. He,· like many others of the order, worked day and
night, neglected their business and·social duties, to see to it that not a singl~
soul within their reach remained hungry, ill-clad or without shelter. Brother
Charles Husband was elected secretary and Brother George Roeth, treasurer.
. A. W. Burrell, J. W. McClymorids and J. F. Chandler were appointed
a committee o~ fina~ce and were requested to call upon the Oakland Traction
Consolidated arid secure from them ready money for the purchase of needed
supplies, Most Wonihipful M. H. Flint pledging the resources of the Gmnd
Lodge for the accommC>Qatiori. This action was deemed necessary oWing to
the fact that the banks of both Oakland and San Francisco were clOsed. Fol- ·
lowing this action committees were appointed as follows:
PRINTING.-Thomas Miller, Roy Farish and J. H. Taylor.
AUDITING.-W. H. Craig, W. G. Mobley and Fred H. Hersey.
BEDDING. AND CoTs.-John W . Guilt, Albert Schulte and William G.
Crossman.
The matter f~r arranging for headquarters in San Fmncisco was then taken
up. Brother E. M. Percy tendered to the bureau two houses, 3570 and 3580,
·Clay street, San Francisco and a committee consisting of Charles A. Gibaon,
G. H. Goodwin, T. K. Fox, H.F. Starbuck and A. C. Baumgartner, were ap•
pointed a committee to visit the houses and make suitable arrangements for
their occupancy. A committee divided into several sections, was appointed
to meet incoining train 8.s follows :
FoRTIETH STREET.:........C. J. ·W aterhouse, W. I. McDonald and H. T. Helfer
SIXTEENTH STREET.-Dr. J . C. GilbertMn, P. L. Faulkner and C. J.
Frederick.
SEVENTH STREET.-W. F. Frederick, E. j, Reed and H. I. Jones.
Following a communication, the Eastern Star Chapters promised their
co-operation in the relief work being carried on by the various Masonic bodies

305

At a subsequent meeting, after Constant Meese and J . H. Hunt were appted a committee on t he purchase of supplies, those present were addressed
by Most Worshipful M. H. Flint. For the benefit of the many who were not
advised of the afternoon session, he explained the objects of the meeting and
asked the hearty co-operation and assistance of the craft. Brother Meek
then announced that the Governor, Brother George C. Pardee, would secure
the nave in the Ferry Building across the bay for their use and the following
were appointed to serve there in relays of six as follows:
J . H . .Taylor, George A. Cockert.o n, A. B. Webster, D. Rutherford, W.
E. Logan, and C. C. Heinler and J. L. Lockwood, A. W. Burrell, W. H . Craig,
J. W. Evans, A. F. Gunn and A. R. Burrell.
At the suggestion of Chairman Meek the wife of each brother met on
the morning of April 21st and organized for the purpose of aasisting in the
work. On motion of A. W. Burrell, an executive committee consisting of
Grand Master Flint, Chairman Meek and Brothers E. H. Hart, A. F . Gunn,
D. l&utherford, George Roetl). and A. W. Burrell was appointed. Leon Behrendt, Leo Munter, C. I. Gilbert, Geo. J. Henry, H. B. Ross, H. U. Maxfield,
O. A. Poulson and J. C. Gilbertson volunteered their services in any caf>a.
city. With this work accomplished the Masons were well on the way toward
general relief work.
On Motion of Most Worshipful M. H. Flint at a meeting on April 28th,
•uisitions on the Oakland merchants were issued for clothing, underwear
and shoes. A sub-committee, headed by the Secretary visited the Oakland
atores and made armngements for suitable articles both as to price and qual"
ity. And it may be said for the merchants that they were more than fair in
their dealings with all those who were purchasing articles for the relief workBrother James P. Edoff appeared at a meeting of May 18th, and called the
tttention of those present to the fact that the Oakland Relief Con;unittee had
lmnished a quantity of supplies to the Masonic bureau and he also gave an
order to Chairman Meek for additional supplies. Brother Edoff, who was
(llhairman of the Auditing Committee of the Oakland Relief Committee, was
one of the most willing and thorough relief workers connected with the aid
t.o the San Francisco sufferers. As a Mason he. is a member of Live Oak
Lodge No. 61 and as a relief man he"was connected with pretty nearly every
oommittee or organization on this side of the bay. His work has been heartily fl>plauded by the members of his fmternity and by the public in general.
At an adjourned meeting of the Executive Committee of the Oakland
lluonic Relief Bureau held on July 21st., the following Masters of the several lodges in the Thirtieth and Fifty-first Masonic districts were in attendance in answer to an invitation: ·

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

W. S. Smith, Live Oak No. 61 ; R. B. Gaylord, Oakland 188 ! C. H. BlohDl,
Durant No. 268; J. A. Petty, Brooklyn No. 225 and J. L. Robison, Berkele;t
No. 363.
After giving a synopsis of the work already done by the relief bureau
since its organization, Chairman Meek stated the invitation h!1'~ been sent to·
the•8everal Masters in both districts with a view of determmmg ways and
me~ns of reaching and relieving members of the lodges in th?se ~istricts who
had been affected directly or indirectly by the recent calarmty Ill San Francisco. After some discussion concerning the matter, Brother Burrell offered
the following resolution which was adopted:
"RESOLVED That the several Masters of each lodge in the Thirtieth
and Fifty-first Ma~onic districts be invited to appo.in~ a co~~t~ of two
members of his lodge to act with him in directing and m mvest1gatmg its members and ascertaining who of its members are in distress by reason of the ~1 'ty of April 18th. Such committee to report such members and the c1rami
'ttee f th M
·
cumstances to a sub-committee of the Executive comm1
o
e . asom_o
Relief Bureau consisting of Brothers Meek, Roeth and Chandler, which subcommittee is ~uthorized to relieve such distress at their discretion."
That Chairman Meek was authorized to carry out his plans and the vast
amount of work he accomplished on behalf of the sufferers from San Francisco, is evidenced by the following self-explanatory letter:
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA.
OFFICE OF THE GRAND MASTER.

Oakland, Calif., April 29, 1906.

DR. R. w. MEEK,,

.

President Masonic Relief Bureau,
Oakland, California.
My Dear Dr. Meek:. Please consider this your authority and that of the executive cormnitte41
under you, to perform such relief work as you may deem best a?d proper for. the
relief of distressed Masons, their widows and orphans, or m fact to relieve
the distress of any whom, in your judgment, you niay deem best and_p~oper.
Such relief to be expended on account of any of the sufferers who are mJ~
financially or otherwise, in the terrible earthquake and. fire on t~e mornmg
of April 18th.
The action of yourself and the executive comnuttee meets
with my entire approval, and I will supply such funds as may be necessary
at any time to .carry on the work under your charge.
Yours Truly and Fraternally,
·
M. H. FLINT,
Grand Master of Masons.
And it is advisable to say just at this time that the Masons were not holding meetings exclusive of everything else. It was necess~ry that ~hey. should'
get together for the purpose of appointing their committees, d1rectmg the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

307

work that was being done on the outside and attending to other most importantmattersincommittee meetings, buttherewasasmuchbeingdone in the field
all the time and the Masons were the first in line to attend to the business
,.quired.
Within a few hours after the disaster, there was not a member of the
Masonic organization on either side of the bay who had not been cared for
in one way or another. This refers to those in want. All those who had
•caped without loss in any direction, gladly joined with the working forces
and gave their aid in relieving the suffering which had existed in every direction.
As a first step in the direction of relief, the Masonic Relief Bureau on the
aecond day following the disaster sent eighteen wagons drawn by two horse,,
each, filled with provisions to the stricken city. At a low estimate one hundred
and fifty tons of provisions were. sent to San Francisco, the most of it being
furnished at the expense of the Masons. True it is that a portion of this
amount was given by the Oakland Chamber of Commerce.
For over a week the brethren worked like slaves in San Francisco and
did not complete all their work in Oakland for months after the disaster.
The headquarters in Oakland were in the Masonic Temple at Twelfth and
'Washington streets and there were stations established in SanFranciscoat
llwenty-third and Mission streets, at the Stanyan street entrance to the Park,
one in King Solomon's Hall on Fillmore street, one at North Beach and another
one at 3584 Clay street. Besides' these there was a head. distributing point
and office in the ferry building. The amount of business transacted in these
quarters was enormous. At the ferry station there was a force of men con1tantly preparing sandwiches which were carried off in teams for distribution.
At least $15 a day was paid out for each of these wagons by the Masons and
•fterthey had distributed the food, they picked uP'refugees' trunks and baggage
on their return trip. A regular checking system was established and many
arti_cies were carried to headquarters for the refugees regardless of sex, race,
color or to which fraternal organization, if any, they~belonged. And besides
the food which was freely distributed to the needy in San Francisco, over
35,000 meals were supplied the refugees in the Oakland Temple. Money
was sent in liberally from all quarters of the United States and this with what
had been given locally, resulted in an immense relief fund at the' disposal of
the Masonic fraternity.
The executive committee of the order ~as most generously treated by
the Santa Fe and Southern Pacific Railroad companies. In many instances,
money was advanced for transport_a tion and besides this the companies never
refused an~ tmnsp~rtation to worthy and deserving people. In all the relief
work done m the city of Oakland and surrounding communities the railroad
IJlfPilizations aided materially, and had it not ·been for their conscientious
effort on behalf of those doing relief work, but little headway could have been
made. The Masonic fraternity are particularly thankful to the companies

•

308

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE 01!' CALIFORNIA.

for.the aid granted them by these corporations. The heads of the transportation companies on both sides of the bay were more than accommodating
and set a good example to others in a position to help in the relief work and a
general straightening of the tangled situation. Wherever a case was reported
by the Masonic executive committee as being worthy of assistance, there was
no disputing the report and the destitute soon found themselves speeding
over the rails on their way to home and friends. It would take a book of
large dimensions to place all the names of refugees who were carried over
the lines of the companies to all sections of the United States. It is stated
that refugees were carried to every point where the roads were run. This
includes the roads in the east which opened th~ir lines to the local companies~
At the time'of the arrival of the.advance guard of the Masonic fraternity,
Market. street was full of excited, anxious people who were gazing horrified
at the ruins as the result of the various fires which had been merged into one
great conflagration. The presence of the members of this order with flying
badges had an instantly reassuring effect on all awe-inspired persons. They
knew the quality of the men wearing the badges and not in· one instance did
anyone of those in the streets apply for aid that it waa not granted.
The thing that at this time made the greatest impresiiiori on the working lodge men was the strange and unearthly silence. · There was no talking,
no apparent excitement among the near-by spectators; while from the great
and dying. city lying at their feet there came not a single unusual sound. No
one seemed to be greatly concerned over material possessions and each was
to the' other as a brother. San Francisco had indeed been taught a hard lesson
and a lesson that softened in some distinct manner the instincts of the sufferers or their more fortunate brothers and sisters.· Not that charity and
self-denialhadnoeager followers before that memorable .time, but the terrific
disaster set more people to thinking of the bible's teachings than could all
the sermons ever preached from the pulpits of high or lowly houses of worship.

•

And the disaster which had changed San Francisco from a condition of
opulence to a mendicant, came swiftly. Just a few short hours before, the
beautiful city by the sea had. been a thing of beauteous life. It was the beginning
of the grand opera season and the star singers from all over the world had gathered together· to give San Francisco music lovers one of the treats of the season. That light and refreshing "Carmen," was sung on Tuesday Q.ightfatal Tuesday night. A few hours later there was no opera house, no places of
amusement, no safe place to go. The beautiful women who the night beore had been brilliantly-attractive in diamonds and ermine were rushing
hither and thither, caring not for dress, for jewels, for nothing but safety.
There was flame everywhere, smoke e~erywhere, and a feeling of hopeless ,
dread, filled the hearts of poor
rich alike. In a few short hours there
was a scene ofd~lation and destructionsufficient in its enormity to turn the
. minds of even the strongest men. That shock was a never-to-be-forgotten
sensation. It seemed that the devilish forces of destruction had center~

and

309

beneath the sarniy crust of San Francisco peninsula Th
.
·
th
h
·
ere was a rockmg
mot10n nor or sout , followed by an upheaval that t 'sted b . .
1
though they were builded of the most flimsy mate · 1 WITh
UI dmgs ~s
·
f th I
h
1r·
na ·
ere was a paruc
ID ~ny o
e argehr oste ies but numbers were collected in mind although
gazing at scenes of orror that were to sweep the c't
.
1 Y and fill t h e parks with
refugees.
·
It was some time before the people awoke to full
1· ·
·h h
.
a
rea 1zat1on of the fact
t hat nature,.wit t e combmation of untoward circ
ta
·
t' I f ·
Th
urns nces, was not play
~~-~dn 11: ythairtr
.
e mde~ who were tru~ng toward the city found crowd~
..,..,.. y m e s eeta an m the squares watching the 'd
dd
.
lat'
A d
estruction
and deso ion.
n these very refugees were be·
iWI Iesprea
b
.
further westward by the spread of the flames as· t~ng s ow [ ut surely driven
breezes: The action on the part of all the authon'et?' were anned by the April
ies was most commendable
and t hey have been the only ones to receive words of
· '
h ·
M
b
deed
praise 1or t err acts
any rave
s, many acts of self-sacrifice
d
b
·
·
M
· b hre
' were one Y others and the
asoruc ret n were by no means the last to ·
h I ·
give a e pmg hand to the
needv and wretched. They as 11
•
'
we as everyone else were for a con 'd bl
s1 era . e
time helpless in the face of the wall of fire which le ed bl
its work of destruction. In the first wild rush for a apla
~ck after: block m
more than natural that the thoughts of the home! pt: o safety it was no
to a desire to leave the doomed city Many th
ess ohusands should turn
were w o gave up all hop
that even one bUI'Id'mg would remain. standin ere
d ·t ·
e
ing of the wind to the east just at a critical
w:e ':!~greed that the changther spread of the fire into the Western addition Had t~ha~revented a_furibeadway on the west side of Van Ness avenue ·.t
uld e mes once gained
burned itself out along the shores of the Paclfi~. wo
most probably have

tfr::

It was llt this time that the railroad com
·
most necessary aid, crowding their ferries and parue~ weref prompt with their
of the compass without char e T
carrymg re ugees to all points
lowing the first shock and th! .
he d~y of the ~atest outgo was that folweek or more. Simultaneous~yo::enthwas contmuously ?~vy for the·next
e movement providing t
·
peop1e to places of refuge outside the city was the p
t ff
or carrymg
.
r~mp e ort to transport
9Upplies from all·directions and h
the globe broke
all quarters of
The fire swept m all over 455 bl k
·
oc ~ or squ~res, b?t fortunately all or
most of the waterfront was
of the refugees from S
F spa1:d. This made it posa1ble for the removal
an ranc1sco to Oakland and th t
h
.
.
pomt~. It was felt by those who first ·um d
en ? ot er o_uts1de
enormous work of carin f
. J pe to the steering gear m the
of the great city that tle or t~e di:st~_ute and arranging for the rebuilding
the sudden st . ' f
mos searc mg test of efficiency in this world is
ted em ram o eme~ency. Those who bore the supreme 'strain of un=there he::::~y::e:those who are no~ considered the "men of the.hour."
dotting this coast saved ab;~o=~ d~rues that those in charge of railways
'
er?ic measures, the city of San Francisco
from the te ' bl '
rr1 e consequences of paruc and stampede.
.
.

~II ~he tri:nscon!i:e~:t f~i~~e~:::~:r:

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

·
It has been stated that in all the overwhelming calamity that befell San
Francisco during the three days' and nights' conflagration that followed the
earthquake, one of the supreme tragic moments was reached that Wednesday morning when the firemen, rushing with their engines and hose carts to
the various points of alarm, found themselves standing helpleBB bef?re the
spreading flames beside empty hydrant!l. But there ":'ere more _tragic moments than that. One of them was when Chief of the Firemen Sullivan was at
death's door by an injury sustained at the time qf the earth~ua}ce. But _the
supreme tragic moment, the one that appealed to everyone m San Francisco
and outside points was, "what can be done with the hundreds of thousands
who are homeless and penniless?" The earthquake and fire were the acts
of God. The care for the poor, bewildered and destitute were the acts of.
humanity. And from where was the first step toward relief to come? The
officials and the soldiery were active, but what of them in the case of those
who were flocking into the city of Oakland by the thousands- yes- tens of
thousands? They came unclothed-they came hungry, destitute, weary ~nd
with hearts and minds heavy and numb because of the ordeal through which
they had just passed. This was the supreme moment and it is fortunate that
there were men in the city of Oakland who were equal to the emergency and
a goodly number of them wore the insi&nia of the Masonic fraternity.
On the Oakland side of San Francisco bay, it was like taking command
of a battle after it had been turned into a rout. The effectual fire fighting
in San Francisco was on the part of brave men who had the endurance or
permi88ion to stay in threatened buildings, in fact it was of their own ch~ice,
but the ca.ce of the wanderers, the putting of life into the stomachs ~nd mmds
of the wretched and depressed, the clothing of the naked, the feedmg o_f the
destitute, fell into the hands of just as brave men as those who had nsked.
their lives in the attempt with dynamite and battering rams to stop the spread
of the flames. For is it not an act of bravery and stout-heartedness to feed
and clothe restless thousands when it took determined effort to find either
clothing or food, to find places in which the wretched could lay_ their heads,
to find blankets with which to cover their shivering forms? Is it not an act
of bravery to abandon one's business, to go without necessary sleep and to
labor by the light of the sun and throughout the dark~t hours on ?ehalf of
those unfortunates with whom you have no acquamtance or ties of relationship? Is it not bravery to risk your own lives to save those who hold
out hands of want to you for assistance? And these things and more were
done by the o·akland Masonic Relief Bureau.
.
Befor~ going into detail ·as to work done in the city of ~akland by the
Masonic Relief Bureau after the arrival of the refugees here, it may be well
to give some reasons as to the necessity for su?h a c~aotic condi~ion of affairs from the scientific side of it. Alexander G. McAd1e of the Umted Sta~es
Weather Bureau situated in San Francisco has said, "that not the leas~ mteresting feature of the great earthquake was the record made at va~ous
points on the earth's surface, showing the displacement of the earth particle, ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

311

or in other words, the indication of the passing earth tremors and waves.
The instrument by which earthquake motion is determined is called a seis1nograph, and the particular type of instrument most favored today is the
9e1ich-Omori horizontal pendulum seismograph. The instrument obtains
its name from an eminent investigator Bosch; and an equally eminent Jap-anese iavestigator- Dr. F. Omori, Professor of Seismology in the Tokyo Imperial University and member of the Imperial Earthquake . Investigation
eeromittee. Ten or more of these instruments are installed at different points
around the globe, and doubtless very full records have been attained, the diseuBBion of which will materially increase our knowledge of the way in which
the earth's surface transmits the jar occasioned by any great slip or dislocation of strata, commonly called an earthquake.
"Europe seems far away from the Pacific Coast and yet within twenty
minutes from the time the earthquake began in San Francisco these horizontal and vertical Micro-Seismographs were busy recording, as best they could,
the different sets of wave motions traversing the United States, speeding
across the Atlantic and hurrying throughout Europe. Japan iB our neighbor
to the West. but not a close neighbor. Within eleven and one-half minutes
the seismographs in Tokyo were recording the beginning of the shock in San
Francisco. · It was then about 10:30 Wednesday night in Japan-Japan
standard time. Without delay Prof. Omori could tell by means of the record
given on the seismograph the.t a severe earthquake had occurred on the American side of the Pacific at 5:13:05 A. M. -our time. The record of the earthquake at Washington, D. C., in the weather bure~u laboratory obtained by
Prof. Charles Marvin, with a large Omori seismograph, told' him before the
news had yet arrived from San Francisco that a severe dislocation of the
earth's crust had occurred about 2450 miles away from Washington. It was
then 8:19 in the morning, Washington time. The actual displacement of
the ground at Washington, D. C., was nearly one-half inch each side of a point
of rest. The movement was so slow, however, that only a seismograph could
detect it.
"At Tokyo the movement was a little less and equally slow. In San
Francisco if a record of the movement could have been obtained, perhaps an
inch or more each side of the neutral point would have been recorded· but
executed in an extremely short time. These displacements, continuin~ for
about forty seconds, from west to east and back again, and up and down,
constitute the heavy, racking and twisting motions known to 311 of us.
"One of the most interesting features of the seismograph record is the
duration of the so-called preliminary tremors. These small waves travel
through the body of the earth at the rate of about six or seven miles a second. They precede the larger waves, which apparently move on the earth's
surface and travel at a rate of about two mile.s a second. Knowing the interval between the beginning of the preliminary tremors and the beginning
of the surface waves, we can determine approximately the point or line of

312

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

origin of the earthquake. Thus at Washington the preliminary tremo~ la~ted
six minutes. At Tokyo, nme minutes and forty-nine seconds. At Brrmmgham, Engiand, they lasted twenty-five minuU:S. Somet~me in the future
when seismographs will be in use in San FranclBCO, we will be able to note
the beginning of a sma)l earthquake, and by comp11.ring o~~ seismograph
with those made elsewhere, determine the center or line of ongm.
''At 'a point exactly midway around the wotld from San Francisco _the
tremors would have lasted twenty-eight minutes. It is not merely to satisfy
scientific curiosity that such records are made. Far from it. The welfare
of mankind is the objective. Judging from the history of disturbanoes in .
this kindly land, the present generation will probably not be called upon to .
again undergo such experiences as those of April 18th. Mankind fortunately
recovers quickly and as quickly forgets. A certain few, however, more de- '
-voted than ever to their labors, will follow the trail with a doggedness and
persistence tha t can only spell achievement, measuring earth movements
for the welfare of all men."
No sooner had the refugees and Masonic lodge members commenced to
arrive in Oakland;. than those who had taken up the relief work realized that
there was an enormous amount of work to do. While the various members
of the order had done all that humans could do in the way of relief in San Francisco there was a heavy strain on this side of the bay. In order that there
m~t be no confusion in arranging for transportation, food, clothing or money
for the really needy, the Masonic Executive Committee went at o~ce to work
in the preparation of blanks which when properly filled out and s1~ned, we~e
all that were needed by those in search of employment or anything else Ill
the way of assistance. That the simplicity of the form and yet its thoroughness might be determined, it is here reproduced :
MASONIC RELIEF BUREAU

OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, ........ ...... , ..........~....... .. 1906,
Name in full ......... ,....•........................-. .......................................................................,..

f::::~fN.£~.~::·:.·:::::·.·~ ::::::::;::::::::::::.::::'. :::::::~:::::~:::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::: .
Widow 0/............................................................................................................. ·······Daughter of .·· · ·····'"·· ·· · · ·········· ·· ··· · ···· · ··········· · · ·······--····· · ·················" ·· ··········~···· · · · · ··· ··· ···· ·
Fcriner 1·esidence........ :..............................................................................•...••..............•
Present residenc.e--········-······································•···················--"····

OccupatWn.................................. -.............. .

~-~~ ++i: : :·

: :

. ~~£7~~1i'~::·:·:·::::::_:.::::::::~::::::::~::::::~:::::~::::::::::~::::~:::::_::::::::::::::::::-··········:·~

~,:.;:~r~p~~~-i.";k-;d.~::::.·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::._. .........,.
Remarks: ..............................................·................................................ ..... .

313

The brothers sent to San Francisco received much praise at the hands
of their superi.o rs for the splendid results they obtained and the general good
work done there. It was no easy task to climb about the brick-filled st reets
and through hot debris .to reach the side of those in trouble; it was no easy
task to convince many that it would be safe to cross San Francisco bay to
Oakland as they had been informed that Oakland was as bad off as San Francisco if not worse. As soon as they were prevailed to come to Oaklan d, how
ever, they were glad of the chance to get somewhere where they knew that
they would be provided for in every way. They were clothed, fed, housed,
cive.Q money, provided with transportation and sympathy at the hands of
the Masonic Relief Bureau and many of those so aided had no connection
JVhatever with the Masons or any member of the Masonic fraternity. Yet
this ha d no effect on the attention given them. The Masonic records of the
p at andoverwhelmingdisast er show that numerous utter strangers to Mallru"Yor the crafth 1d the bestofatt.ention and a t no cost to themselves. Hunlllredsof women and likewisemenwho hadnoplacetogoandwhowere in need of
food, were taken in by the committees and properly attended. No worthy
Jllllbject, and in fact many unworthy ones were lifted upon their feet by those
who had willingly given their time and attention to the helpless who came
to Oakland in droves.
A slight idea of the enormous amount of work and good done by the Ma1<>nic Relief Bureau can be gleaned from minutes held by the members of
.the bureau and of the Executive Committee. The first meeting, as has been
told, was held on the twentieth day of April, a time when it was seen that every
~e.nization, church and individual must put forth their best efforts to.care .
for the thousands of refugees who were flocking to the Oakland side of the
bay. At that meeting, necessary committees were appointed and steps were
taken for obtaining and distributing information badges that there should
be no hitch ~n efficient service. It was at this meeting that the Grand Lodge
and the entire order of the state promised their support in the work. During the evening of the same day the wives of the members.of the various lodges
were called in.to take a hand and right well did they do the work laid down
for them. The executive committee was appointed during this meeting
and many brothers volun~ered their services in any capacity. In fact there
were so many wishing to give their aid, that no work could be found for them
to do. There was not a member of the order found who was not willing and
even anXious to get in line with the workers.
On a called meeting for April 28th, it being called to order by Chairman
R. W. Meek, it was agreed to transfer the work of the committee to the secretary. In consequence the chairman was empowered to employ a. competent
pen~m who gave his entire time to the relief work. This was a great saving
of tu:ne to the committee which was working night and day to keep things
l'Unnmg smoothly and to see that all the wants of the refugees were attended
to. It was agreed at this meeting that the Executive Committee should
rneet nightly, until the st ress of trouble was over, and it was also agreed thRt.

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

three constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. A rule w~s .established that the credit of the Relief Bureau be pledged for the furmshmg
tools to properly accredited mechanics until such time as .the recipients were
in a financial condition to pay for them. Household furniture was also guaranteed in the same manner. The chairman and secretary were granted power
to act in any way advisable in the matter of employing help and there was
discussion as to the proper mode or procedure in the purchase of needed articles such as dothing, underwear, shoes and hats.
During the meeting of May 14, Brother Robert E. Evans was directed to
issue supplies from the Masonic Temple only on Mondays and Thur~daye.
Prior to this time a vast amount of clothing and food stuffs had be~n issued
every day from the Temple but by this time there was less call for aid, many
of the refugees having secured work or taken their departure for other parts,
so the daily issuance of supplies was considered not necessary . . As the d~­
mands were fewer the members of the executive committee de_cided .at this
meeting to have sessions only on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fndays mstead
of every night in the week. This was agreed to by every mem~r o~ the executive committee and despite the decrease of the number of sess10i:<i ma week,
all relief work was most thoroughly attended to. At the meetmg on May
18th, the first case of one's mind being effected through the horrors of ~he
earthquake, was brought to the attention of the members of the executive
committee. A member of the lodge visited the house where ~he unfo_rtunate was located and he and his wife were furnished with necessaries and g~ven
transportation to their home in Los Angeles county where the~ could be given
proper attention. Another member was given transportation to Fresno,
he having lost everything in the disaster.
Up to and including May 25th, much general busin~ss was transacted
and at a meeting on the latter date, Chairman Meek notified those !'.resent
that he was in receipt of $5000 from Most Worshipful Motley H . Fhnt for
relief purposes.
This willgive but a slight impression of the actual work that ~as do~e
by those in charge as well as the regular relief workers of the Masomc H.e~ief
Bureau. Hundreds and thousands of cases were !lttended to; transportation
was given out with a lavish hand, hundreds were clothed and a co~ntless
army of the needy were given food and shelter. It would be most difficult
to call to mind just the number of cases attended to. Th~re are records of
a number of them but in many instances not even a pencil mark was kept
as a record of mo~t charitable acts, but those who aided t~e needy were of
large hearts and carry in their being the souls of men which cannot stand
idly by and see humanity suffer. ·
That which has been told heretofore was largely attended to_ by the executive committee. While their actions were all that could be desired and that
they directed the general relief work, goes without ~ying, but. the labor of
the members of the other committees was far from being anyth~ng but most

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

315

t.t>orious effort and daily strain. 'fake ·the Finance committee for instance.
The members of this committee, consisting of A. W. Burrell, J. W. McClyJDonds and J. F. Chandler worked day and night in their efforts to keep all
in 1Vorking order. And when they did not find enough to keep them busy
with their own committee-which was seldom the case-they joined hands
with others and gave a boost where a boost was badly needed. They are to
be eommended for their efforts on behalf of the homeless and hungry in San
francisco and but for them, the general work would have been much harder
to handle. The members of a finance committee are in a rather unenviable
ption because of the vast amount of work and worry which is their lot.
And then there is the printing committee which consisted of Thomas
Miller, Roy Farish and J. H. Taylor. They were tireless at their task and
their efforts greatly assisted every other committee in the relief work. Then
there was the auditing committee-the comµiittee which has more to look
after possibly than.any other committee other than the executive committee.
But the auditing of bills, the straightening out of many tangled matters is
of no small consequence. Their work must be conscientiously and thoroughly
done and this was so in regard to this committee. One of the best committees
of the Oakland Relief Committees, was the Auditing Comrriittee with James
P. Edoff at its head. Both that committee and the Auditing Committee of
the Masonic Relief Bureau are worthy of the utmost praise.
Then there was the Bedding and Cots Committee. They are obliged to
work bard and those who believe that relief work from standpoint of this committee is not difficult and trying work, he or she try it. Here and there and
there and here for something for the needy to rest a weary head. A hunt
foracot,asearchfora bedand when thedayis done and although hundreds have
been provided for in this direction, there are hundreds more waiting for a
f'petition of the work that has gone before. And the Train Committee.
Those who have fought their way through large crowds just for the purpose
of finding a relative or friend, can realize what the members of such a committee must have to contend with. At the time just following the earthquake there were thousands hurrying to Oakland. It was the duty of the
members of this committee to locate the deserving refugees and see to it that
they were properly cared for, and it was a gigantic undertaking.
Then we have the Housing committee. The members of this committee

were obliged to go from place to place in se~rch of rooms and other accommo-

dations for those who were arriving in Oakland faster than they could be
provided for byall the relief committees, lodges, churches and other like asso'Ciations. The Housing committee worked day and night in Oakland to get
~ms for those who depended upon them in this direction. Every house
1Il Oakland was visited with the hopes that a vacant room could be found.
They were successful in many instances but in a great majority of cases, the
'tranderers were sent to the refugee camps or to tents provided for them.
Bvery cot available to the Masons was pressed into service regardless of race,

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

color or affiliations and many a. weary body, many ·a.n aching head, was rested,
and soothed through the efforts of those working on the housing committee.
They will not soon be forgotten by the wretched who kept arriving in this
city for weeks after the first earthquake shock felt on the morni~g of April
18th, in the city of San Francisco.

CABE 17-Memberof Evanston Lodge No. 4, Evanston, Wyoming-clothng and furniture.

And the Supply Committee was kept equally busy. There were but two
on this committee-Constant Meese and J. H . Hunt, and although they were ·
not very prompt at their" own meals because of the a.mount of work they had
to do, they saw to it that not a. refugee, whether a. Mason or not, was not provided for--that is those refugees with whom they came in contact or were
turned over to them by some other committee of the Oakland Relief Bureau.
The getting of supplies at the time the work was going.on was no easy matter
and the work was well done.
The committeemen who registered those looking for aid in the way of
shelter, food, money, clothing or transportation had no easy affairs on their
hands. It is the intention in this resume of the work done through the Oakland Ma.sonic Relief Bureau to show a.s far a.s a. portion of the records were
kept, cases who applied for and were given assistance from one standpoint
or another. The cases will be. run in numbers a.s follows.
CASE I - Member of Estrella. del Pacifico Lodge No. 33, Panama., Colombia-furniture supplied.
CASE 2--Member of Elgin Lodge~No. 117, Elgin, Illinois-$25.
CASE 3-Member of Oriental Lodge No. 360, Sha.nga.i, s. c .,-$1.50.·
CASE 4-Member of Nevada Lodge No. 13, Nevada City-tools given.
CASE 5-Member of Berkeley Lodge~No. 363, Berkeley, Ca.l.-$100..
CASE 6- Member -of Madison Lodge No. 323 of Grass Valley, Cal.-furniture and bedding.
CASE 7-Member of Greenbush Lodge No. 337, Albany, N. Y.,-tent;
mattress and blankets.
.
CASE 8-Member of St. John's Lodge, Kingston, Canada-suit of clothes,
.
. · .
underclothing and money.
CASE 9-Member of Herman Lodge No. 127, San Fra.nc1SC0-cha1rs, mattress and bureau.
CASE 10-Member of.!Ancient Land Mark Lodge No. 5, St. Paul, Minn.,transportation for seven.
CASE 11-Member of Emanuel Lodge No. 654, New York City-food.
CASE 12- Member of Aztlan Lodge No. 1, Prescott, Arizona.-tra.~
portation.
.
CASE 13-Member of Adelphi Lodge No. 23, New York City-$20.
CASE 14--Member of Minerva Lodge, Athens, Greece-transportation to
New York for four.
CASE 15--Member Qf Oakland Lodge No. 188-provisions furnished.
CASE 16--Member of Aurora. Lodge, Henniker, N. H.-tra.nsport&ti~
to Byron Springs.

317

CAS;g 18-Member of Erie Lodge No. 161, Buffalo, N. Y.--suit of clothes
and pair of shoes.
CASE i9-Member of Lodge in State of Nevada-SlO.
CASE 20--Member of Western Star Lodge No. 2-given employment.
CASE 21-Member of King Solomon Lodge, San Francisco-established
in businel38.
CASE 22-Member of Louisiana Lodge-moved to San Francisco.
CASE 23-Member of Union Lodge No. 2, Detroit, Michigan-transportation to Detroit..
CASE 24-Member of Freeman, Mo., Lodge-transportatiOn.
CASE 25--Mem.ber of Onorga. Lodge No. 805; Moberly, Mo.,-tra.nsportation home.
CASE 26--Member of Pacific Lodge No. 136, San Francisco-transportation to Denver.
CASE 27-Member of Plymouth Lodge No. 332, Plymouth, Penn., t?ansportation to Chicago.
CASE 28-Member of Reno Lodge, Reno, Nevada-transportation to
Fort Atkinson, Wis.
CASE 29-Member of Oklahoma. Lodge No. 3, Oklahoma City, 0. T..
f1ansporta.tion to Pittsburg, Pa..
CASE 30--Member of Iowa. Lodge No. 2, Muscatine, Iowa-tra.ns?ortation to Muscatine.
CASE 31-Member of Occidental Lodge No. 22 of San Fra.ncisco-tra.ns~rtation to New York City for two.
.
CASE 32-Member of Montgomery Lodge, Milford, Ma.BB.,-t~nBporta­
tion to New York City.
CASE 32-Member of Temple Lodge No. 299, Kansas City, Mo.,-tra.nsIPrtation to Kansas City.
CASE ~Member of Carrigan Lodge, Marion Co'. , Ill.,-tra.nsporta.tion

to Chicago.

··

CASE 34--Member of Los Angeles Lodge-transportation.
CASE 35--Member of Los Angeles Lodge-transportation.
CASE 36--Member of Richmond Lodge No: 661 West Brighton, N. Y.9uisPortation to Rivera., Cal.
CASE 37-Member of Yondota Lodge No. 572-tra.nsp0rta.tion for wife
and children to Cleveland, Ohio.
·
CASE 38-Member of Mission Lodge No. 169-tra.nsportation to Kings

"'°urt, 01:1t.

.

CASE 39-Member of. .Kansas City Lodge No. 220-tra.nsportation.
CASE 40--Member of Roscmelle Lodge No. 232, Springfield, M8.88-., ·
~rtation to Denver.
CASE 41-MemberofLodgeof.Old Monr,.,,., Mo.,-tra.nBporta.tion for wife
and self to Old Monroe.

318

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

· CASE 42-Wife of member of Kansas City Lodge-transportation..
CASE 43--Member of National Lodge No. 12, Washington, D. c.,-tran&portation to Denver, Colo.
CABE 44-Member of Sunflower Lodge No. 86, Wichita, Ka'!sas-transportation home.
CASE 4&-Member of King Oscar Lodge No. 855, Chicago-transportation home.
C~ 46-Member of Preston Lodge N~. 281, Louisville, Ky.,-transportation home.
CASE 47-Member of Narragansett Lodge, Fall River, Mass.- trans.
portation to New York City.
CASE 48-Member of Porterville Lodge No. 303, Porterville, Cal.-transportation to Dublin, Wayne County, Ind.
CASE 49-Member of Boulder Lodge No. 45, Boulder, Colo.-transportation to Denver.
CASE ~Wife of member of Kansas City Lodge-transportation.
CASE 51-Member of Palace Lodge No. 765, Pullman, Ill.-transportation home.
CASE 52-Refugee, Portland, Ore.-transportation home.
CASE 53--Refugee, Santa Cruz-transportation home.
CASE 54-Refugee, Portland, Ore.-transportation home.
CASE 5&-Refugee, Galconda, Nev.-transportation ~ome.
.
CABE 56-Refugee San Luis Obispo, -transportation home.
CASE 57-Member' of Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295, Guemeyville, Cal.transportation to Portland. Ore.
·
.
.
CABE. 58-Daughter of member of Mosaic Lodge No. 218, L1vermoretransportation to San Luis Obispo.
CASE 59-Member of Fidelity Lodge No. 120, Portland, Ore.-transportation home.
-1.., __
CABE 60--Wife and two children of Member of Los Angeles Lodge-ti.......,
portation to Los Angeles.
.
CASE 61-Wife and child of Los Angeles Mason-transportat10n.
CABE 62-Wife and three children of member of Naval Lodge No. 87,
Vallejo, Cal.-transportation.
CASE 63--Wife and four ehildren of member of St. Paul Lodge No. 3,
St. Paul, Minn.-transportation to St. Paul.
CASE 64-Member of Selma Lodge No. 277 and wife and child- transportation to Fowler, Fresuo County.
.
CABE 65-Wife of member of Harmony Lodge No. 6, Galveston, Texas~
tra~portation to Austin, Texas.
.
CABE 66-Refngee of Marysville, Cal.-transportation home.
CASE 67-Refugee of Chicago, Ill.-transportation ~ome.
.
CABE 68-Member of Washington Lodge No. 3, Baltimore and wife and
three children-transportation home.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

319

CABE 69-Daughter of member of Williamsport, Pa., lodge-transpor&ation to Williamsport.
CABE 70-Member of Waterville Lodge No. 33, Waterville, Maine-mattress and fly for tent.
CASE 71-Member of Lincoln Lodge No. 19, Linncoln, Neb.-transpor&ation.
CASE 72-Member of Hammo.nd Lodge, Boston-to hospital.
CABE 73--Member of- Perseverance Lodge No. 92, Louisiana, Mo.-general assistance.
CasE 74-Daughter of member of Ellsworth Lodge No. 55, Cleveland~rtation home.
CABE 7&-Member of Henemoa Lodge No. 786, New Zealand-financial
aid and sent to San Francisco.
CABE 76-Wife of member of Pierre Marquette Lodge No. 299, Ludington, Mich.-$20.
CABE 77-Member of Eel River Lodge No. 147, Rohnerville, Humboldt
County, Cal.-clothing.
CABE 78-Member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30, San Francisco-clothing furnished.
CABE 79-Daughter of deceased member of Gaylord Lodge No. 183, Gaylord, Kansas-$10.
CABE SO-Daughter of member of Asalia Chapter No. 77, 0 . E. S., San
jlndreas, Cal.-material to make dress and one pair shoes.
CABE 81-Widow of member of Commandery Lodge ·No. 1, Henderson,
Kyt-clothing furnished.
.
CABE 82-Member of Doric Lodge No. 216, San Francisco-$20.
CABE 83-Member of Knightstown Commandery, Knightstown, Ind.pneral relief.
CASE 84-Member of Sancterum Lodge, Brooklin, N. Y.-clothing and
ehoes.
• CASE 8&-Wife of member of King Solomon's Lodge No. 260, San Fran9o-<:Iothing for herself and children.
CABE 86-Member of Oriental Lodge No. 33, Chicago-money and clothing.
CASE 87- Member of Crockett Lodge No. 139, San Francisco-bed covering, overcoat and underwear.
CABE 88-Member of Tenquoise Lodge No. 10, Tonopah, Nev.-bedding
furnished.
·
·
CABE 89-Sister of member of Golden Gate Lodge No. 30, San Franciscolledding.
·
CABE 00-Member .of Tehema Lodge No. 3, Sacramento-underclothing
and shoes.
CABE 91-Member of Cyrene Lodge.No. 14, Cyrene, Mo...:.....food and $25.
CABE 92--Daughter of member of Pacific Lodge No. 136, San Franciscof-edding.

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CA.SE 93-Member of Sanctorum Lodge No. 747, Brooklyn, N. Y.clothing furnished.
CA.SE 94---Member of ~ontgomery Lodge No. 68, New York City-tran8
portation to Chicago.
.
CABE 95-Member of Carthage Lodge No. 197, Carthage, Mo.-transportation to Los Angelea where he went in search of work.
CASE 95-Wife of member of Excelsior Lodge No. 166, San Franciscoclothing.
CA.SE .97-Member of Mount Moriah Lodge No. 44, San Francisco-J?rovisions furnished.
•
CA.SE 98-Member of Doric Lodge No. 274, Philadelphia, Pa.-dothing,
underwear, shirt and hat.
CasE 99-Member of Jewel Lodge, San Francisco-provisions.
CA.SE JOO-Member of Columbia Chapter No. 75, Washington, D. C.provisions furnished.
These first one hundred applications are included in this report with the
object in view of showing the various requirements of the refugees and to
illustrate how many different lodges had members who were rendered entirely destitute by flame and earthquake.
Some wanted one thing and some another. There were petitions for
transportation, food, clothing, cooking utensils, tents, cots and bedding and
numerous other articles needless to mention. The largest number probably
asked for transportation as they were anxious to get near friends or reln.t.ives.
But hundreds .were clothed and fed during the days of stress a11d discontent
following the disaster. In the Masonic Temple there was an unusually busy
scene. Those without pl.8.ces to sleep and those without f~ or shelter were
all provided for and it is safe to say that the members of the Masonic fraternities were as heavy losers as those connected with any like organizatio1!.

•

And the members of the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau did not stop
to look into their own losses when they saw the thousands or homeless flock~.
ing in Oakland. They at once prepared to meet the emergency and most
well did they do the work. They worked hand in hand with the Oakland
Relief C-0mmittee and outside lodges and also did much individual and collective relief work. Had it not been for the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau ·
in Oakland there would have been much unnecessary suffering and want.
The .Mason~,~ has been said before, did iiot only care for Masons, but out
of the generosity of their own hearts and pockets, prepared most generously
and aided greatly in the general relief work which was going on. ~n f~ct
the Oakland Masonic Bureau considered itself a part of a great orgamzatton
of relief committeell, lodges and churches which were working toward one
end-the care of the. de9titute and the protection of the helpless.
The exact details of the· work can never be tabulated. So much good
was done and quickly forgotten because of something else to do, that no record
was kept of every act, but the general aid given and the charity extended,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

321

will not be forg~tten long after the city of San Francisco has cleared away
her debris and nsen anew, one of the grandest cities of our United States.
And she will not forget that Oakland willingly and unselfishly held out a helping hand to the ~wildered San Franciscans who called loudly for aid.
Those who worked with and assisted the Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau, have ~ot looked. for nor did they expect that they would receive any
words of praise for their many worthy acts, but to give succor to the hungry,
to hunt ou~ homes ~or th_e needy and to do other such deeds of valor, place
111clt men side by side with those who have made history "through times of
war and troublous periods. The man who will assist another man and neglect his own affairs and relatives to do so, is a man, every inch of him. And
the world knows it, knows that Oakland produced more real men than has
been the fortune of any other city within the confines of the Umted States.
For the occasion present;ild itself and those in charge of things, were not found
wanting.
Money was no object to those doing relief work. The pinched drawn
mieerable faces and bodies of. the women and children as well as ~en wh~
came here for succor and relief, were too much a lesson of self denial to allow
any to stop to think of self gain or self sacrifice. Taken from the outset the
the affair was well and most thoroughly handled. While the members of the
Masonic Bureau were doing all in their power to relieve suffering, there were
others in Oakland doing the same. And when the needy were concentrated
in the camps on the Oakland shores of San Francisco bay, the efforts of a.II
were doubled
Nightly meetings of the executive committee were held while the crisis
was on and they were all well attended. Questions of vital moment were
discussed and considered from every view-point and in ·m ost instances were
decided with practical unanimity. And .the financing of this emergency enterprise was no small matter of itself. The money raised in Oakland was
fllpplemented by generous contributions from many outside points. The
difficulty and rather delicate duty of determining the demands made upon
the treasury was carefully and conscientiously performed and a system of
vouchers was devised that saved many dollars for the Masonic Bureau and
paranteed the disbursement of money vyithout fear of favor or mistake.
The ladies who gave such great and willing assistance during the days
'
of trials and troubles following the earthquake and fire, should come in for
m~ch ~rving praise. Their knowledge of humanity and their quick sense
of JUBt1ce, worked much toward the splendid ends attained. They were here,
there and everywhere, looking out for the interests of the affiicted and had
it not been for their hearty co-operation with the ma.le sex, who were alsohard and willing workers, it is more than probable that it would have ta.ken ·
much more time to right affairs than it did.
·
There is one individual whose position was most trying and yet who wa."
never heard to enter a complaint and that person is Robert G." Evans, chief

..

322

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

of the Commissary depa rtment. Although his duties were many and varied,
he attended to them with such exactness and business ability, that there was
no confusion in obtaining and distributing food to the refugees. At one time
shortly after the overwhelming disaster, the banquet hall in the Masonic
Temple proved inadequate for the horde of needy who were served with meals
and a coffee and sandwich line was instituted on the street. For a number
of days there were hundreds who satisfied their appetites in this manner and
the line was done away with only after affairs had become largely settled.
Mr. Evans had much assistance from the ladies in his work and felt thankful
for it.
It might be said again that it would be utterly useless to give a detailed .
statement of the work done or to personally mention each and every one who
had a hand in the work, but they have satisfaction in the fact that their work
was appreciated, it having been done well-extremely well. Those who
toiled in Oakland and thoiie who labored in San Francisco well realize that
if it had not been for united effort on the part of ali concerned, no such worthy
and commendable ·a ctions could have been carried out and no such self-sat isfying results have been obtained. There is hot a man, woman or child,
Mason, or members of other organizations who can help but admit tha t the
liberality of Most Worshipful Motley H. Flint was not excelled by any individual nor can they deny that Dr. R. W. Meek, Chairman of the Executive
committee and President of the Oakland Masonic Relief Association did not ·
do everything in his power to aid the afflicted and to give his assistan ce toe~ry mn.TJ who willingly gave time and attention to the work of relief. Neither
can it be denied that each and every member of any of the committees under
the Masonic order did all within human reason and endurance to carry out
the work laid do'l'l'n for tl;iem. The sick were sent to proper institutions or
to fri·e nds, the naked were given clothing, the hungry were liberally fed, the
strangers were given transportation to their homes and everything was done
that could be done for the welfare of the unfortunate visitors from San Francisco.

Despite the fact that the officers and committeemen as well as many
others did all in their power to give comfort to the needy, they would have
been powerless to act without the aid of those who contributed so liberally
to the relief fund of the Masonic Relief Bureau of Oakland. Money poured
in from every direction and was put to the best of use. Everyt hing was
carried on along strictly business lines and the financial report shows that the
Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau had on hand at the meeting of September
10, 1906, the splendid sum of $11,046.08. As the relief work is to be continued
throughout the year, this money will be used in the general work of relief
and that it will be judiciously distributed, goes without saying.

323

The contributions to the Oakland Maso . R 1, f B
me e 1e ureau are as follows:
Through Most Worshipful Motley H Flint G
d M
Salifomia, $14,600.
·
' ran
aster of Masons of
Portland Lodge No. 55. •• . . ..
Oakland Lodge No. 188. . . . . . . . · · -.· ·: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

Hall ~rarehouse Co. .. .. . ... : : : : ~ : : : : : : : ~ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '
Live Oak Lodge No. .61 . . . . . . . . . . . .
···············

$5 .00
20:00

109 .09

·3 .25
W. A. Hermie . . .. ... . . . ........ . . : : · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
10 .00
Frank H. Wright . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . · · · · · · · ·· · · · · · · ·
James McClese . . . ..... . ... . .
··' ···· ·····' ···· ···· ' ··
~. oo
.. .....· .....
20 .00
William Bufton . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
' ·············'
2 .00
Grove City Lodge, Blackfoot Idaho
. .. · · · · · · · · · · · ·' · · · · · · ·
10.00
A friend .. . .... . . . .. .. . . . : ..... . : .· : · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . ..
2 .00
J.C. Waterhouse. . . . . . . . . . . . . ....... ... ..
·· ···· ···············
5 .00
Capt. Chas. J. Anderson . .
' ··· ············' ·•
13er.kley Lodge No. 363 . ... . .. . . . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
5 .00
10 .00
Tuscan Lodge No. 26, Willi~~~,· C~i ~
.r • • • ·• • • • • .. .
August Hageman, Livermore
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100 .00
A. G. Little
.. .. . .. .. .... . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100 .oo
10.00
A1ise1 Lodge ·N~~ ·32·1·, ·pi~~~~~~: ·c~ -.· · · · · · • · · · · · · · · ·, · · , · · . . .•.
W. W. Price, Alta, Cai .. .. . ...... . . ..·: · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 500.00
7.50
· · · ·' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
St. John's Lodge No. 37. .
Howard Lodge No. 99 . . . . : : : : : . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.· · · · · · · · 100.00
Cynes Chapter No. 15 . . . ... . . .. : : : . . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100.00
Mt. Shasta Commandery No. 32
· · · · · · · · · · · · · ' · · · .· · · ··· 100.00
Stella Chapter No. 39 0. E . S .. ... .. · · · · · · · ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100.00
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 ·. . . . . . . . .. . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ... · · · · · .. · 100 .0Q
20. 00
lrinnedumah Lodge No. 287 Bish; ..
p, al .. .... .
,
)(illbury L odge, Millbury, Mass . . . .. .... .
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 1()() .00
C. L. Sumbardo, Houston Texas
· .. . · ' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · roo .oo
Robert M. Francis
'
. . . .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
10 .00
Rockland Granite L~d~~ N~.·
..5.00
100.00
IJlarrington State Bank, Harringt~~ ·W~h
50 .00
Ernest Parkham, Memphis, Tenn...'... . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
5.00
lfarmony Lodge No. 20, New Britton u;~
l>encasular Commandery No 8 Kala'
. M.: .h. .. . ... . .. . . . ... .... 200 .00
..___ .
· ,
mazoo, 1c .
50 .00
a&a110nic Lodge· No. 28, Trinidad Col
· · · ·' · : · · · · · · · ·
ll K '
. .. . .. . . . · · · · ·· ·· · · ·· · · ·
Russell State Bank R
100 .00
, usse , ansas
Oakland Lodge No. 188
············· ·· ······ ····,..
25 .00
5 .()()
Bay State Lodge, St. Lo.~i~: M~
50.00
J. G. Rope, Chico • . . . . . . . .
· · · ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·· ·
Live Oak J...odge No. 61 . . . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. .. 10 .00
f{irksville Lodge No. 105 M:" · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
10 .00
ftfacon Lodge No. 8, De~tur~·rii.· ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
10 .00
. .. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . ..
50 00

·.:.·· ··· · ·· · ··· ·

1

C... ... .. · ·· ·· ···· · ·· · ·· .. ·

222".. .. ... ... ····· ········ ·······
····· ·· ···· ···· ·······

...·········'· ······

········· ······ ·····... ··· ' ···

324

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNI4.
10.00
Barnett Lodge, Delaware · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·: · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
1000
.00
F A. Chase W. M. Lodge No. 74, Spokane. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
600 .00
Rec;rder of Kansas City K. T . · · · · · · · · · ·:. · · ·::::::::::
3 .00
Gates Livery Stable····· ·· · · ····················· . . . . . . . . . . .
1.00
Ott Stebloch · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '· · · · · · · · · ·
1000 .00
1
Masonic Fraternity and Myst'.c. ~~.~~~s-~~ ~~~~~· .... ~ .. : : : : : : : :·.·
25 .00
V. H. Snook ... · · · · · · · · · · ·
.
.......
5 .00
3. 85
Tacoma Lodge No. 22 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . .
J. W. Wigginton .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. ......
. . . . ..
......
10 .00
w. J. Ustick, Chicago · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
. ... .. ; .. 75 .00
H 11 ood Lodge No. 355; Hollywood, Cal.... .... . . ......
250 .00
o yw
•
. ... . .
1000 .00
Oriental Lodge No. 74, Spokane· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.
25 .00
Masons of Providence, R. I.··· ·· ········· · ······.· · ···· · ·· · · ·.·
Chico Lodge No. 111. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·:: : :::: ::: · 8 .00
J. I. Casale ... ···· ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · . . . . . . . .
25 .00
Columbia Chapter No. 132, Grand Rapids ............ . . .
. .. 25 .00

G~and

··Oh:

C. E . Chambers · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · : : : : : : : . .
Eden Lodge No. 113, San Lean~·· ··· · ······ ·· · · ··.· . . . . . . . .
St p 1 Lodge No. 3, St. Paul, Mmn. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
J
...... . ···· · · ···· · · · · ·· · · ···················· .. .
N Wilberg refunded · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.• · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
•
•
1
• ••••••• • •••••••
Solomon Kanderer · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
...........
W P. Reid Jr.···· · ······· · ···· · ·············· ···
D . · Chapter No. 36, San Leandro· · · · · ··· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·... ...
one
, ...... .
William Pray. · .····· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Imperial German (',onsulate · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Fidelity Lodge No. 120, Portland, Ore.. .. ........ :
..........
Aurora Lodge, Fitchburg, Ma~s. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
. . . •. . .
C E. Chambers··· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .
E. Wilberg, refunded. ·· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
0 .. t l Lodge No. 74, Spokane. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
nen a
.
.....
...... . Lodge No. 216, San Francisco .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
uonc
,
.. .... .
William Horlick, Jr.······ ··· ··· ·················· · · ··.
George H. Rand .. ································ ···· · ·... ..
Thomas Chapter, Fitchburg, Mass. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · : : : : : : :
Mrs. Jennie C. Stutzman··········: ···· · ···· · ······ ·· ··
Occidental Lodge No. 22, refunded····· ·· ······ · ······.... . ....
A Stranger . . . · · · · : · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .. : : : : : : :
F transportation, stranger ······ · · ·' · · · · · · · · · · · · · · : · · ·
or
Boston
Commandery · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · ............. .
Los Angeles Examiner, for tents ..... . . . ....... . .......... . . .

·H.a~mbe

E

Mrs

50. 00
150 .00
1 . 90
50.00
50 .00
50 . 38
50.00
2 .00
5 .00
12 .50
100 .00
1.50
15 .00
59 .00
. 9 70
.
25.00
40 .00
100.00
4 .Q5
17 .60
59 .25
23 .10
74 .50
150 .00

. .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.... . .$22081.08·
Grand total

325

Where a repetition is seen in the columns of the donators, it is the result of the same party having sent checks or money on various dates. They
may have sent one amount for the use of the Relief Bureau or it ·may have
been sent in some instances to be used in specified cases.
The amounts paid out will be shown in total amounts and vouchers for
such amounts and the parties to whom the money wae paid are at this time
in the hands of Chairman Dr. R. W. Meek of the Executive Committee of the
Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau. Of the sum of S22,081.08, the amount of
fll,034.45 was paid out as follows.:
Statement from April 20th to September 11th, 1906, Masonic _Relief
Bureau of Oakland, Cal.
GEo. RoETH, Treas.
DISBURSEMENTS.

cash) ... .. . .. .. .... . .. . . ............. . ..... . ..... ·.. . .
rtation (R. R. Co's.) .. . . . ....... .. ................ .. . . 1885 .67
ons (food 81Ipplies) .. . .. ........... .... ........ . . .. . . .-. .. 3110 .90
Clothing and shoes .......... .. ................... . .......... . 1164.21
Teaming (hauling 81Ipplies) .... . . ... ....... .... . .. .. .... . ..... . 613.80
Labor ............ · ·.· ·. · ·· · ···· ··.· · · .. · .. ·· .. . ... · . . ·· ... · 1537.72
Drugs and Doctors . . .. ... .. . . .. ........ . .. . ..... .... ... .... . . 649.25
Expense ,(office, stamJ>s, etc.) . .. . ......... . . .. . .. . . ........... . 242 .89
Oakland Gas L. & H. C......... . ....... . .. . . . . .. .... . .. . . '. .. . . 161.91
Printing (ads, badges, etc.) . .... .... ............ . . ...... .. . .. . . 110 .so
Furniture and tools ......... . . : . . . ......... .. . . . .. . . ...... . . . 109.05
Tents . ........ . . ... ... ... ... ...... ....... . ..•.............. 746.80
.llattresses. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · . . . . . . . . 150 .00
248 .40
228.05
." ."::: : :::: ::::::: ::::::::: : :: : :::: :
75.00

~':1~'1e=s~:::

~::::::

$11034.45
Sept. 11th, balance on hand ........... . .... . ....... $11046 .63

326

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

327

ALAMEDA RELIEF BOARD.
Alameda, Cal., Sept. 16, '06.
Motley H. Flint,
Most Worshipful Grand Master,
Los Angeles, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brothn:We submit herewith statement of the relief extended by Oak Grove Lodge
No. 215, F. & A. l\J.
On April 19th, 1906, a special meeting was called for the purpose to
provide ways and means to secure aid for the refugees. A motion was made
and seconded that the Master be authorized to spend $500. 00 arid appoint a
committee of fifteen to assist him in caring for them.
The committee was divided into squads of three who worked on all the
local trains coming into our city and turned them over to others who were
in waiting to receive them and conveyed by vehicle to our hall, where they
were fed and made as comfortable as possible.
A quantity of beddin~ was bought, used for making beds for the many
-~fugees, the large hall bemg for fai:nilies and women; the small hall being
used for the men.
A number were permitted to take bedding where shelter could be provided
in different parts of our city.
·
The Temple was thrown open on the morning of April 20 and was kept
open for twenty-four hours per day till Thursday, May 3, 1906, when the dining
room was closed.
No account was kept of the number of meals served.
No one was turned away, no questions asked as to sect or opinion, that a per·
son who came up the steps was in need was sufficient.
Through the aid of the Ladies of the Eastern Star, and others, the dix:tlng
room was handled splendidly, Bowers brightened the tables and the sympathetic ·
touch of these kind hands gladdened the hearts of many a sufferer.
The committee are indebted to many who gave their time and service
and others who refused pay· for service and supplies;·
. ·. .
Received from Grand Master, __ ~---J----$1100.00
$166.60
Bedding purchased and distributed,_ _____
315.25
Cash paid out to refugees,_________ ______
Printing___ _____ ___ ___________________
5.26

Pn1ci~:~ta~-===========================
D~,_ ------: -----------------------

Physician.s services,_._ _________________
Nurse hire ________ : ___ ________________
GOB, refugee family,___ ___________ ____ __
Rentr _refugee family, -------- - - ---- - --ProVIBions, ----------------------- - --Hardware supplies, --- ---------------- Labor, -·-- -------------- - --- - -------Cash Balance on hand_ __ _______________

T.

W. Leydecker,
Treasurer.

1

~:~i

1.10
15.10
91.50
4.94
48.50
88.70
21.60
96.50
229.30

s1100.oo si100.oo
RespectfUlly submitted,
H. M. Hammond,
MBBter of Oak Grove Lodge
No. 215, F. & A. M.

SANTA ROSA RELIEF BOARD.
Santa Rosa, ~ept. 15, 1906.

M. W. Motley H. Flint
Los Angeles, Cal.
Dear Sir and Brother:-

. In rep!?' ~ your letter ?f the 16th inst. requesting a repo1 t in regard to
relief work mmdent to the disaster of April 18 '06 will say:-

F:

& A. !\Ii., held
At the regular meeting of Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57,
on May 6, a relief committee composed of Bros. C. A. Lane, "E. R. Sawyer,
Barnett were regularly elected by the Ledge to
W. L. Whitaker and C.
take full charge of the rehef work among the Masonic brethern their widows
and orphans in its jurisdiction
'
·

?·

Following is a complete statement of receipt and disbursements to date.
RECEIPTS.

~r 3,'06C~h, ------ - -- - --------------- ------- $1000.00

" 77

2'

" -----------------------------------------.- ---------- - --- - -------

J~r i~· " ·======================== -=======

1500.00
15000.00
10000 .00
1000.UO

Total, _____ __ _____ __

$285fl0.00

DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid Masonic Hall Aas'n,___ ___ _________
$15000.0U
Perso~l ~lief, clothing, groceries etc.,----==========
243 .00
458. 75
Masons. 'r1dows and f~milies,___ _____ ___ __ ___ ___ ___
Mechanics tools, physician's outfits etc.,__ __________
225.00
Funeral expenses, drugs, nurses, medical attendance
~
etc., ----- -------- ------- 667 .00
~xpe~ea, ~amil:y to eastern relatives, _____ ==========
100.00
p:f:iiG:~ni~'i£Jf8~~~' ---- ------ --- - --- - ----- - 521 .25
Expenses to Windsor, c~~p--M~k~~,- -8;~~~~- ~I-; lOOOO.OO
"-· h. b kgrams !etc., --·--- ------------ - ------10 .00
"";~ m
specia acc't,_ ____ __ __ _______________
1255. 75
on n ' ·---- -- -- -- - --- - -- --- - ----- -- - -- - -19.25

:d'

Carl A. Lane.
E. R . Sawyer.
W. L. Whitaker.

$28500 .00

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND Loncm OF CALIFORNIA.

829

Your early telegram advising me that
h
•
for relief purposes and tendering me su h you ad plen~y of funds at hand
11
•
c amount as might be
· i
we as extending your sympathy to those
b
requue. , as
promptly to hand
mem ers who were afflicted, came

SAN JOSE RELIEF BOARD.
To Motley H. Flint,
Grand Master F. & A. M., of California.
M. W. Sir and Brother:
The great calamity of April last, occasioned special and immediate
action in doing our ·part toward rendering every kind office that might be
required of the Masonic Fraternity in those trying days.

•

Many thoughtful and kindly acts had already been performed by members of the craft, both as citizens and Masons and by the Masonic Board of
Relief ot San Jose, when a special gathering of Masons took place on
Sunday morning, April 22nd at the Masonic Temple at San ·Jose, called by
the Masters of the Lodges of that city at which I was i;ppointed permanent
chairman. A secretary and two assistants were chosen and arrangements
made for systematic relief work at the railroad depots and elsewhere.
Inside of an hour after adjournment, a large tent had been erected at the S. P.
Depot · and headquarters established there. The trustees of the Unitai:ian
Church kindly tendered the fraternity the use of the church and the edffi'ce
wn.s immediately supplied with cots, blankets etc. for caring for the refugees
from San Francisco.
Books were also at once opened by the Secretaries to reoord the names.
of Masons who had rooms at their homes that might be used for brethem in
need of such and many hundreds were cared for in that manner, thereby
rendering a kindly office as well as spreading the cement of brotherly love
and affection.
This class of work went on for many days, regular changes being made
in the personnel of the members stationed at the depots and el~ewhere.
The headquarters were kept open all night for over a week.
With thankfulness I note that not a death occurred among the members
of the craft in this district, as a result of the catastrophe; though several
members were injured and a great many lost a portion or all their possessions.
The whole-heartedness with which the Masonic fraternity here and
elsewhere entered into the work of relief occasioned not only all the cominendation of members of the Craft, but received the benediction of the people
at large
Thanks is due to the railroad companies for carrying many members .to
and from this city free ~f charge for transportation, some members indeed
being given transportation a great distance .

With great gratitude to those jurisdictions
it, your fund has been drawn against to th
and lodges who contributed
Some thirty odd case" have been attend ~a:ount of Se~en Thousand Dollars.
all to the sum of $3,577 49 and leaving a b=J
outhof thIS fund, amounting in
ance on and to date as noted bel
ow
One of my first actions was to ente . to
r rn communi t"
·
our brethem residing in San Franci
to
.
ca ion with those of
.
di .
sco,
ascertain as well
. b
the1r
con t1on and needs With
f h
'
as we m1g t,
~ t ese l~tters we sent receipt for
dues and assured the breihern of
assist them at once._ Those
residing in our own midst who could b esu~
e ass1s. ' were personally visited ancl
promptly given assistance In
.
·
some cases 1t was to b "Id h"
repair houses; in others to care for the in"ured
re U! c 1mneys or
two cottages was fllfnished S
al J
•. In two cases the lumber for
to secure a new start in th~ir ;;0
profes~onal members were enabled
with funds to secure. provisions andesstotr:·
ther members were provided
1
include the many cases that were 100 ~ ~ fng etc .. O~ ~ourse this does not
.
e a ter by individual Masons
It IS. p~easant to note in this connection that s0
.
went unrelieved, nor was relief exte ded b
far as I know, no case
~udicious.
·
n
eyond an amount that seemed

:::;;nr

t!::i

7.

.
All bills contracted for are paid "th h
be paid until the repairs are comple:. t e ~xception of one which cannot
In connection with the relief wor'k I . h
.
of self-denial was exhibited b
Wis to say that a splendid display
to do their utmpst for thos/ 1::~~r~:~bers of the Craft in_ their eagerness
rest upon them.
·
te. May the blessings of Heaven
Receipts and Disbursements are appended;
Ma ~unds were received from the Grand Master as follows:
Ma~ s: ---------------------------$1000.00
May 26, ---------------------------------1500.00
Sept. 7,
-------------------2500.00

--------Being a total of_ __

2000.00

$7000.00
Relief funds were disbursed as follows:

~~ g' ---r---------------------------------~r,, · ::10 ---------------------------------------===========================
-------------------------------------,," 12', ------------------------~
------------------------------------"
-------- ------ · - ------- ---

$125.75
34.00
493.0o
25.00
50.00
20.00
4.00
50.00

•

330 .

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEF.J>INGS OF THE

25.00
100.00
-------- -- ---------------" 18,
-------- ------ --100.00
" 18,
103.00
-------- --------- ----- - --·-" 18,
--------------250.00
--------" 21 ,
-- ------ --------100.00
" 26,
-----------------100 .00
--------" 26,
100.00
-- ----- -- --------" 29,
----------------6.00
" · 31,
,, 31 ,
3 .00
---------------------100.00
" 31,
50.00
June 5,
. 100.00
" 14, -------- -------- ---- --- -- --- -- ------200 .00
" 21; -------------------75.00
" 28,
--------------100.0V
" 29,
---------..-137 .14
Julv 5,
,r 6,
-------------------- --------100 .00
---- - ----------31.10
" 17,
50.00
Aue:. 11,
--------------i( 13,
--------100 .00
--- ---100.00
-------- --------" 14,
--------- -------75 .00
" 20,
------------- -.--- -..- --25.00
" 21,
----------------....
-------'.!5.00
" 21,
-------------250.0
" 25,
- ------- - - --- - -62.50
" 31,
-----------------308 .00
Sept. l'.:l, ------ -- --------" ·15,
Making the total disbursements,----:----:----Leaving a bal'lmce on hand Sept. 15th mclus1ve oL

SACRAMENTO RELIEF BOARD.

S!\977 .49
'$3422.51

$7000 .00
.
deposit in the name of the Masonic Relief Fung.
This amount IS on
.

h~v:hbeen.:!:int~a:t:~ ~S:l~~ce

over'~

Vouchers
should shortly be turned
I am o
e op1
.
Jose to be retained for the purpose o
the Masonic Board of Reli~f of San
t .
and in assisting those who
caring for such cases of relief as may ye anse,
.
may need further · aid.
.
. d as well as all members of
The thanks of those whf havb b~h~r:s:h~ so promptly and efficiently
the Craft go out to those o dur li
extended their sympathy an re e. the Masters of the San Jose Lodges
My personbal t1f~ :,~r~u~f ilelief for their assistance.
.
and the mem ers 0
e
. his district were damaged and m
While some of the Lodge ;gomst ~h! losses to the Lodges were in all
some in.stances to.tally destro~ . ' ye
.
. "t M. W. Grand M'!-8ter, your
cases, I am glad t? report, trifling.
I recognize with pleasure and. cotaµ y,a per;od that reqwred strong
promptness, s~!icitude and cooperation urmg
.
executive ability.
'
h
Respectfully submitted,
Delos W. Smyt dhainnan Special Committee.

n;

331

.

M. W. Motley H. Flint
Grand Master of Masons of Calif.
Dear Sir and Brother:As requested by you, I attach report showing relief given to San Francisco Fire Sufferers by Sacramento Masonic Board of Relief.
Our Board, whj.ch is composed of the MBBters ~d Wardens of the five
Lodges here, met on the day following the catastrophe to make arrangements
to take care of all who might come this way. At the Board's request, I made
a trip to Oakland and personally offered you our assistance. The Masters
reported to the Board that their Lodges stood ready to assist us financially
as did the Masonie Hall Ass'n, Sacramento Chapter No. 3, R. A. M. and the
Scottish Rite Bodies and also appointed members to act in conjunction with
the Board. Committees were appointed to remain on duty at the Hall, and
INT~gements were made to furnish Board and Lodgings. We did not have as
many cases as we expected, but this was due to the fact that the majority
of those who left San Francisco continued on to Eastern points .
The report shows a balance of $278 . 60 and the Board thinks that if
you decide to allow us to retain this balance, it will, with the amount wc have
in our General Fund, last us through the winter.
Trusting the report meets with your approval, I remain,
Yours fraternally,
F. A. Roblin,.
Secretary.
Rep<>rt of relief ~ven to San Francisco Fire Sufferers by Sacramento
Masonic Board of Relief:
Receipts.
From M. W. Motley H. Flint, Grand Master, $150Q.OO
Donations by individual members,_ _______
30.00
Total receipts, ______ __
lxpenditures.
.
Money advanced, ----- -- - -- -----~---- Forty-five lodgings furnished, ___________ _
Eighty-two meals, ______ ______ __ ______ _
Clothing furnished, ________-__________ _

~~:feaiili~,
== ====
House rent -====~-==
paid,___ ====______-=_=·=====
__ ________
_
Doctor's services, - ---- -- ---- ---------R.R. fare paid,--- - - - -- - ------ ----- -~·Sacramento City Board of Relief, _____ __ _
San Francisco Masonic Board of Relief, __ _
Miscellaneous, ------ ---------- ____ - - __Total expenditures, ___ ~ __ _
Balance, __ ______ ___ ~~ ______ _____ -

$1530 . 00
144.40
13.75
20.50
11.00
1. 75
9.00
18 .00
3.00
4.25
500.00
500 .00
25.75
$1251.40
278 .60

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

FRUITVALE RELIEF BOARD.
Fruitvale, August 18, 1906.
Motley H. Flint, M. W. Grand Master of F. & A. M. of Cal.,
Dear Sir and Broth!!1
Your request concerning the relief work done, at hand. At the call of
the Master of Fruitvale Lodge, a meeting of the members convened for the
express purppse of providing some ways and means to take care of refugees,
masons and others who might come from San Francisco
The most feasible plan proposed and adopted as the best, was the establishment of Masonic Headquarters on the main thoroughfare and the appointment of a committee to act i,n conjunction with the officers of the lodge,
to visit San Francisco and also to wait upon the local trains which arrive
every 20 minutes in Fruitvale from San Francisco. To aid and assist refugee
Masons and other · needy persons, the . committee made themselves conspiCuous by the Masonic badges they wore. In this way Masons were easier
identified, located and temporary shelter provided.
At a call meeting of the Lodge on April 30, arrangements were formulated
to have a committee of brethem in the vicinity surrounding their homes
visit their neighbors and ascertain if there were any Masons stopping with
them and whether they could provide room for any refugees. This committee which consisted of thirty-Bix members, made this search on the· day
following and secured places of shelter for a large number of families. A
committee visited the Oakland Masonic Board of Relief and were informed
by that body that. whatever provisions were needed for refugees in Fruitvale
might be obtained from them for the expressing of them to Fruitvale. ·The
expressing was provided for and the provisions· taken to the Fruitvale headquarters and distributed to the needy, although a number-were provided with
provisions in this manner. A great number were taken care of at the homes of
brethem who did not call on the Relief Board for assistance
·•
One hundred and twenty-Beven Masons were taken care of hi tills manner.
Doctors of the Fruitvale Lodge gave their attention to the sick free of
any charge.
.
I only mention the above to have it clear in your mind that the brethem
of Fruitvale Lodge met their obligations without any shirking of their duty.
I will concede to your request regarding the expenses, but with the understanding that Fruitvale Lodge does not wish to be re-imbursed. The brothers
appreciating the fact that they were called upon to help in the hour of need.
·
· Expenditures:
To widow of Mason ______ ____________ ______ _
20 .00
Emplo~en~ of night help, __ ____ ___________ __
30.00
12.50
:~ici:~~·-::_-_-:_-:
1.00
$63.50
Total,----------------Respectfully submitted,
·
W. G. Thomalley, Jr.,
Master of Fntltvale Lodge No. 336, F. & A. M.

:::::_-::_-:_-::_-_-_-_-_-_-:_-_-::_-_

888

SAN RAFAEL RELIEF BOARD.
. SAN nAFAEL, CAL., Sept. 1~, 1906.
MoTLEY H. FLINT, Grand Master
DEAR BROTHER:•
Your kind letter of recent date to M . L·
.
ann odge No 191 F & A M
a t han d and was read at our stated meetin
.
·
' ·
· . is
·
g last Illght. I was directed to .
answer it as follows:

.

c.

"Directly after the disaster of April 18th
.
ize a Board of Relief, but soon changed
'~edmet and mtended to organ. h the General Relief C our. mm .s and concluded to work in
n1unct'ion wit
trib d
omm1ttee m San Raf 1 0
n
ute $150.00 to the Relief fu d b "d
. .
ae.
ur Lodge
Relief Committee in numerous wa n 'Wesi hes assist~ Brethren and the
night, and kept the Lodge room op!s.da'l e . ehld advisory_ meetings every
1 Y wit some one m cha
.
0 n Apnl
21st we conducted the f
rge.
Santa Rose by the.earthquake. The B~~~i:: ~!1 a Brother who was killed in
. onged to Santa Cruz Lodge."
I think this covers the ground t
·11 answer t he requirements.
' a 1east m a general way, and I hope it
wi
Fraternally.J.ours
R. G'. G. VANDERLIP
Secref.ary'.

ALCATRAZ RELIEF BOARD.
¥oTLEY H. FLINT, EsQ.,
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, Sept. 16, l906 .
Grand Master of Masons of California
Los Angeles,
'
WoRSHIPFUL Sm:. . As an organization Alcatraz Lod e took b
.
.
.
ut little part m the relief work
mc1dent to the disaster of April 18t;.
.
As individuals many of our members .
t
took active parts. Matters so
m the relief work-in fact but on:~s ~~ c~lled on for any particular action
date mentioned.
'
ro er as asked for assistance since the

~ped themselves that the lodge

When the influx of refu ees f

·

~Alcatraz. L~ge immedia~ely ;~~s~:::n!:~~i:c; comm~nced, the Officers
emple mto a temporary
, and mv1ted all comers with t f
iartake of our hospitality w ' f ollu re erence to fraternal connections to
a,:_,t 1
·
e u Y expected t
·
'
~ e y, and were preparaed to em t ou
o c?ntmue this· course inoau~. ~ut fortunately for us the Je~era~ 1:~~~1f ne_cessary, in the good
ur e1tuation, and immediately offered t f ~ ~
m.nuttee soon heard of
o urrus us with all the provision

334

PROCEEDINGS OF T~E

required. Needless to say the offer was gratefully·aecepted; and up to the
time of the concentration of the refugees in one general camp, we were supplied
with groceries, vegetables, etc., in the greatest profusion. Our entire outlay
as a J,odge will not exceed $125, and while we thank you most sincerely for
your offer to reimburse us for our e:Xpenditures, we most reiipectfully decline
as we feel we can stand this small amount withou~ inconvenience. Neither
do we expect to call on the Grand Lodge for funds during the coming winter,
as although it is true we have several Brothers on our rolls who will undoubteclly require ~i~tance, we are quite confident that the funds of the Lodge
will be ample for all demands.
We desire to callyourspecial attention to the noble work perform~d· by
·the ladies of Unity Chapter, No. 65, 0. E. S. without whose assistance we could
have accomplished but little. They responded to the call for help instantly
and willingly, and for nine days worked early and late in ministering to the
wants of hundreds of refugees, as well as three companies of soldiers whb
were quartered on us at diff~rent times.
No account was kept of the number of meals served, but a conservative
estimate would. place the number at four t~ousand.
Our main Lodge Room was used as a dormitory by the refugees, and the
large assembly hall on the firstfloorwas placed at the disposal of the s?ldiers.
All who made themselves known as being in any way connected with the
Masonic Fraternity were ~irected to the Masonic Committee's headquarters
at 12th and Washington Sts., where special attention was accorded them.
Several of our members were active participants in the work of this C'-0mmittee
whose endeavors can only be commended in the highest terms, a full account
of which will doubtless be rendered to you from other sources.
Special mention must also be made of the other Fraternal organizatiolll!
who occupy our Lodge room, and who for over three weeks surrendered their
rights without a murmur-neither asking or expeeting any rebate in their
rent, and many of the individual members offering contributions of mon.ey
supplies and ·services.
Thanking you most sincerely for the interest you have displayed in Alcatraz Lodge, I remain,
Fraternally Yours,
H. A. GLINES,·
Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

33.5

LOS ANGELES RELIEF BOARD.
To the Most Worshipful
Motley Hewes Flint Grand Master of Masons
State of California:
Dear Sir and ·Brother:Complying with your request of August 16, 1£06, concerning the action
which this Board of Relief took in the matter of the dirnster occasioned by
~quake and fire which befel the Central portion of our glorious State,
on the 18th day of April, 1906, will say:·
. That immediately upon the realization of that awful calamity, a special
meeting of the Masonic Board of R.elief of Los Angeles, was called on April
22nd, 1906, at which meeting I was directed to communicatE: with each Maeonic Body of this City, and request a contribution of One Dollar ($1. 00)
{ler capita, to enable our Board . to relieve the clistJess of the n:embers of the
craft, and those dependent upon them who might take refuge in our City.
This request was promptly complied with, and there came into my hands,
as Secretary, from the various Masonic Bodies of our city, together with
individual contributions; and also from Mount Zion lodge of Troy, N. Y.,
the sum of Three Thousand One Hundred and Seventy-Four Dollars and
Fifty Cents ($3, 174 . 50 ).
Arrangements were made that the Masonic Board of R.elief, should
establish Headquarters at the Masonic Temple, and notices were placed in
all the Newspapers of the City, calling attention to that fact. We secured the
use of the Banquet Room and Kitchen for the purpose of providing meals;
also the Lodge Room recently vacated by the Scottish R.ite Bodies, was filled
with cots and bedding for use of the ladies.
We secured the upper floor of the Lexington Hotel (now the Rosselyn
Hotel ) for the use of the gentlemen.
A cook was hired, aJ?.d with the assistance of the Ladies of the Eastern
Star, meals were provided at the Masonic Temple; committees were appointed,
who met all trains coming from the North, and brought the members of the
flaternity to the temple, and after a bath, a good meal, and a rest, positions
were eecured, as best they could be, for employment.
Those of the unfortunates who were in feeble health, were sent to the
Southern California Masonic Home at San Gabriel, at our expense, and when
they were recovered, they sought employment.
. Quite a number of refugees being aged, and having relatives in other

oit1es, were furnished with transportaiton, as they desired.
It is estimated that at least One Thousand (1000) Meals were furnished
at our expense,

336

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

RECEIPTS.
Los Angeles Lodges,
Los An:t:es Lodge No. 42, -------------- $275.00
Pentalp Lodge No. 202, ______________ _
516.00
Southern California Lodge No. 278, ______ _
600.00
East Gate No. 290, __________ __ ________ _ 314 . 00
Hollenbeck'Lodge No. 319, ___________ __
310.00
Southgate Lodge No. 320, ______ _____ ___ _
341.00
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329, ____ ____ _
50.00
West Gate Lodge No. 335, _____________ _
250.00
Palestine Loci~ No. 351, __________ ____ __
125.00
100. 00
Sunset Lodge o. 352,----~------------Golden State Lodge No. 358, _______ ____ _
123.00
Mt. Zion Lodge No. 311, Troy, N. ¥. _____________ _
105.00
William Jenkins, Bigelow Lodge No.243, Columbus 0.
5 .00
2.50
C. D. Ginaca, (a friend>--------------·---------~-­
A. C. A. Kuester, Ashlar Lodge No. 308, Chicago Ill.
5.00
J. H. Miller, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, Los Angel~,-:
5.00
D. W. Campbell, Union, Lodge No. 7, Denver, Colo., __
5 .00
S. G. Dunham, Linwood Lodge No. 667, Cincinnati, 0.,
5.00
J. A. Thomas, St. Bernard Lodge No. 222, Dodge City,
5 .00
Kansas, ---------------------------R. H. Robisar, Tyrian Lod~ No. 553, Wilmart, Ark.,_
5.00
Bernard Healy, East Gate Lodge No. 290, Los Angeles,
5.00
. H. S. :\lien, Pentalpha .l1>dge No. 202, Los Angeles, __
5.00
(A Fnend); name not given, Los Angeles, _________ _
1.00

(Leo V. Youngworth __ $7. 00)
(J. Hauser, __ ________ 5.00) Cash returned by members
17.00
(Mrs. Bradish ________ 5 .00
of committee,___
$3174.50
DISBURSEMENTS.
Paid out for:
Food Stuffs, -------- -- - ----- ----------

$165.41
51.00
25.25
Printing and Stationery, ___ _________ ___
71 .42
Tele&aphing, --------- ______________ _
28.26
So. al. Masonic Home, __ ___ ____ _______ _
28 .00
Transportation, ------ --- ____________ _
215.75
Cash to Masons and families, ___________ _ • 1154 .65
Balance to M. H. Flint, G. M., ____ ____ ___ 1434 . 76

~:~.

~~~~==================================== ~i:~

Advances (not paid) -·-- --- -- - -- - - --- - - -- - - - - - - - _
80 . 00
1325 . 00
Clothing on hand__ ___ ____________________ __ __ ___
Total---- $78490. 70
Unpaid accounts, orders issued (estimated)_________
$2000.00

Trial

Balance Statement.

Close of Business, Saturday, October 6, 1906.
Dr.
Cr.
Cash in the honds of Secretary ___ ____ __ _ ________ _ 1631.50
164231 .81 $89008.61
74718.48
===
Contributions received from Grand Master ______ _
111.00 100111.00
l'tansportation Account ____________ _____ ______ _ 10368.70 1510.05
lncidental Expense Account ____ ______ _______ _ 1726.05
Stationery Account __: _________________________ _
119.85
3640.75
Clerical Account --------- ---- ----------·-------Furniture and Fixture Account ---- - - -- --------- · . 230 .98
General Expense Account ___ ___ ___ __ ____ _._ _____ _ 3370.55
1338.00
154 . 45
30335.88
Mission District, Ma.sonic Relief_ _________________ _
936.40
Loan Account --- -- ----- - ------ - ----- ---------- 2701.80 2621.80
108 .70
216.61
718.25
Supply Account _____ ______=- --- ______ ___ _______ _ 47090.11
319 .33

1:~:-~::t r~;i;;-ed--f-;.~~-J~ri~di~ti~~= === == =

~~f'Ac:::~m~ -== == ====-= == =-= ===-= == =========
:~-~~-===== == ==~== ======-= == =~ --=== ==~ =

$268660.33 268660 . 33

~~~d~~.-= ==== ==== === == === ======== =

All of which is respectfully submitted,
·
Sam'l Prager,

1

~ ~g c~~~-(c;;d;)-======================

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.

337

Articles Furnished.
Books --- ------------------- -----------------------------

$3174 . 50

President.
A'ITEST
.
J. M. Dunsmoor
Secretary.
Since the foregoing report was made, the Grand Master, Brother M. H ...
Flint, has retlJ!lled to this Board of Relief, the $1,434. 76, and the same has
been entered m a Special Fund, ·to be used to relieve additional distress
.
.
caused by the late disaster.

Furniture and
--------- - --· -- --__--___
-- -- - ~- - - -- ----- - -_
Crockery
Cutlery
_______
__ -- -________
____--__- ____
Ladies' and Children's Clothing ___ _______ _________ ______ ___ _

~~~:~~==~=~=======:=======·================-~~=====·

Stoves
and Utensils
--------------------_
Stoves
___ ____ .___----_ ___ - _--------__ ___ __ _____
_________________
......truments ___
·
9-.~

~~~~~~-============::::::::=====::::::::::::::==~==

1

32
19
8
7
4

.26
9
1
2

1
l

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Analysis of, Amount il.nd Kind of Relief Granted
by Cities, States and Jurisdictions.
San Francisco.

Delaware.

Newport
Seaford

Cash ---------- - -------------------------------- $1233 . 50
430.00
:Machines ·-----------------------------------~-20 .00
Lady's Suit _--- _- ___ -- -- -·-- ---- ___________ -- -- 515 . 55
Furniture ___________ -- _---- __ ------- ----·-- ---- _
57.55
Stoves and lJtensils ----------------------------117 .50
M:en's Clothing _- - - _- - - - - - ------ --- ----- _-- --- - Crockery and Cutlery, (Bills not received) _____ - - Tools, (Bills not received ) _____________________ _
Shoes, (Bills not received ) ____________ ------ ___ _

~hhi~~-============================

Chicago

Illinois.
Furnit ure ___ ~--- ___________________ _

Cedar Rapids

Iowa.
Furniture _________ __ _______________ _

Clark

Indiana.
Cash _______________________________ _

California.

Etna M:ills
Forest Hill
Fort Bragg
Fresno
Iowa Hill
Jackson
Los Angeles
:Murphy 's Camp
Napa
North San Juan
Oakland
Richmond

Sacramento
Santa Rosa
Shasta
Sutter Creek
Vallejo
West Oakland
Watsonville
Lower Lake
Yuba City

Cash ________·______________________ _
Cash ----------------------------~-Instrumen
ts ___________ --- _______ -- Cash - --- - --- - ---------.---- ________ _
Stoves and lJtensils ----------------Furniture ____ ----------------------Cash ---------------------- -------Cash (Instruments )------------------ ·
:Machine ------- _____________________ _
Books ---------- __ ---------------Hospital Fees -------- --------- ____ _
Drugs --------- ___ ___ --- -------Hospital Fees--------------- ------Furniture _________ -------~-------Stove and lJtensils ----------- ------Furniture _________ ·__ _____ __ _______ _
Stove
M:an's -----------------------------Clothing _____________________ _
Lady's Clothing --------------------Cash -- -- - -------------------------:Machine ___ -------------·-----------Furniture ______ ----------------- - --Cash - ----------------------- ______ _
Stove and lJtensils -----------------Furniture - ------- ______ ~ ___ -- __ . --- Cash ------------------- __ -------Cash ---------------- -------------Cash ---------------------- _·__ ---Instruments _______________________ _
Furniture - ----------·------- -------Stove and lJtensils - - ---------------Cash _____ : __________ --------------

$20 .00
5.00
150 .00
50.00
36 .75
83 . 50
20 .00
150 .00
25 .00
135. 50
32.95
.60
50 .00

Hanover

8. 75

20 .00

Cash - ------------------------------

20 .00

Louisiana.

"1exandria

Cash

Brighton
Milton

~ur~ture

Roxbury
Salem

-------- ------------------

Massach us.etts
_____________._____________ _
osp1tal Fees-- -------------------

g~~ ===~=========================~~

20 .00

28. 50
25 .75
25. 00
5.00
50 . 00

Missouri.

St. Louis

Cash -------------------------------

15 .00

Michigan.

40 .00
25.00
.50 .00
45.75
205 .95
20 .00
300 .00
10 .00
150 .00
7 .50

Detroit

25 .00

:Machine ----------------------------

25 .00

Nevada.

Carson City

Genoa

20 .00

$7.50

:Machine ---------------------------Montana.

Virginia City

~~;~;===========~=======~===~===

15 .00

Stove and lJtensils - -- --------------Crockery and Cutlery _______________ _
Furniture- ----------------------- __ _
New Hampshire.

Colorado

Cash - - - -------------------------- --

25 .00
40 .00

Kansas.

Cornish !<'lat
Durango

339

Cash -------------------------------

$50 .00

New Jersey.

lersey City

Cash - ----- - ---- - -------- - -- -- - ---- -

25 .00

..
340

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
New York . .

New York City

·Cash - - - - - -- - - ------ - - -------- - -----·

85. 00

Ohio.
Cincinnati

Cash _-- - - -- - · ----·- - - ----- - _- - ------

35 . 00

Oregon.
Ro~eburg

Cash --- - - --- --- - - - --------- - - ------

30 . 00

Cash ------------- - - - ------- - - - ----Cash --- --- - - ------- - - -- - ---- - -----Washington.

Pomeroy
Port Angeles

Cash - -- -- ------~- - -- -- -- - --------- Furniture _________ _- --- - --- - - - - - - -- Gas Stove ______ __, ___ _____ ________ _

Silver City

Cash - - - - -- -- --- - - - - - ------ - - ------Transportation ___- -- ----- __--- -- - - - -

Honolulu

Funeral Expenaes - - - ------~-- - - - - - - ­

20 .00
10 .00

New Mexico;
100 .00

Hawaiian Islands.
105 .00

New Zeal~nd.
Cash - - - - -- ----- -- --- --- --- - - - -----Peru.
Lima

Cash - -- --- -------~----------- - -- -- Ireland.·

Dublin

Cash - - -- -- - ---- - - - - ------- - - ------Canada.
Furniture _- ------- -- _____ ____ ____ ___

'New Brunswick

~~a'.i:'~--~-================~==~============== ~8~:~

Total Disbursements {as above)__ ________ _____ _ __ $14367.01
Total Ca.sh on hand __ _______ ___________ ___ _____ __ ________ $76854 . 70
Oflice fixtures (cost)- ------- -- ----- ----- ____ _____ ____ :___
231.00
:r,stimated value of Clothing on hand_ ___ _____ ____ __ _________
1325 .00
Advances (not yet returned)- - - ------ ___ . ___ __ ________ __ ___
80 . 00

150 .00

Virginia.
Winchester

Total amount of Tran.spo~tation ____ _______ ___ ___ _ • 84.40
Total Extense Account ___ __________ ___ __ _ - -·- - -·
994.10

Grand Summary.

Rhode Island.
Woonsocket ·

341

25 . 00
5 .00
10 .00

Summary.
From September 14th to October 6th, 1906, inclusive.
Number of Letters received and answered ________ __ ______ -2439
Number of persona supplied with Clothing __ _____ ____ __ __ -97
Number of -r.ersons for whom employment was secureJ_ _____
111
Total Contnbutiona Received ---- --- - -- -------- - -- --- - - - _$174718 . 48
Total Disbursements from September 14t h to October
fith inclusive ~- - -: -- -- - -- - - -- ------- - ------$14367 .01
Total Relief granted with money __ _______ __ ___ ____
2681.00
·
Total amount of Sunplies furmshed _____ __ ____ ___ __ · 10393 .81 •

...

From date of Incipiency of this Board to October 6th, Inclusive.
Number of letters and telegrams received and answered
16466
Number of rations distributed ~------ --- ---- -- - - -74200
1972
Number of persons supplied with clothing____ ______
Number of persons for whom employment was secured
1288
Number of Jiliirsons as individuals "8Bisted (irrespective
of clot · g) ----- - - -- ------- - -- - - - - ----- - - - 1518
Number of persons &ll!iste<l {C!:ltimate<l) __ __ _____ ·
6019
Total Contributions received _______ ____ ___ ______ $174718 . 48
Total Disbursements (irrespective of amounts refunded and credits) --- - - -- -- - - - --- -- -- - ---- --- -$102686 . 02
Total amount expended for supplies lincluding Glothing Dept. and amount expended by Grand Master)
47090 . 11
Total amount expended for Transportation _____ ____ _
10368 . 70
Total Expenaes ____ _____ ________ ____ ____ ____ ____ _
10426.18
Total Relief granted in money _____ .- --- ---- ---- -31380.98
718.25
Amount expended for Burials ---- - -- - --------- --2701.80
Amount advanced as loans - -- - ----- ----- -- ~--- - -·
$102686 . 02
Total cash on hand __ ___ ___ _ _______ _____ _____ __ $76854 . 70
Oflice Fixturllf! (cost) __ _____ ______ __~ ______ .__ _ _
231.00
Clothing on hand (estimated ) ____ __ ______ ___ __ __ _ 1325 .00
Advances (not paid) ___ - ----- - __ __ ____ ____ ____ __
80 .00
F raternally '!Ubmitted,
HARRY J. LASK,
Secretary.

342

Clerks

San Fran<:isco, California

1154 O'Farrell Street
San Francisco, Cal., October 6th, 1906.
Hon. Motley H. Flint
M. W. Grand Master of Masons, State ·of California
Hotel Majestic, City.
M. W. Sir and Bro. :I have the honor to submit to you my supplemental R eport of tJ;ie transactions of t his Board from date of September 14th, 1906, to the above date,
· nclusive.
SUPPLEMENTAL REPORT.

Letters and Telegrams Received and Answered.

Import
Relief ____________________________ __ ___________ .

1144
1295

Loans ------------------------------ - ------- -

1090
12
471

'f:!~~~~o~~-=============- --==========-========
a~~cf°~~rn
==================================
Inquiry - - - --- -· --- - ------------------ -------Appreciation and Thanks ___ ---------------- - ---

4
391
46
23
17
204
50
18
113

"Miscellaneous __ --------------------------------Contributions - ------------- _____ ---------------

RecoIIllilendations _____ ------------------ - ----Orders for Supplies ______ , __-----.------- --- ~ ___ _

==~====== ~=

======
l(illiners - - - - -- =============
---- - --- - -- --· - - -- - - - - - - ---- ··- ===
- -Butchers - - -- - -- -- -- - - -- ------------ ----- ·------ ·Bakers -- - · ----- ---- - ·--- -------------------Machinists -------------- - p------- --------- · ---- Plumbers- ------------- - -------------- - ---------

2
3
5
17
9
8
5
6

~n~~o;;=======~=======~-==-====~===--==--Mill :Hands ------------------------ --- --- - ----

111

FINANCIAL.
Contributions to this Board from Most Worshipful Grand Master
BRO. MOTLEY HEWES FLINT
and from Jurisdictions, etc.
From M. W. Grand Master.

Correspondence.

Sent- ---------------------~--------------------

27
3
11
5

------------------------------------

=c~r:~; ~=

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL MASONIC RELIEF BOARD

· Received ____ ----------------------------------

343

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2439

$2025.00
100 . 00
1900 . 00
2000 .00
8000 . 00
25000 . 00
25000 .00
25000 . 00
5647.17
(Expended
for
Supplies)
__
________
5327 .83
Sept. 28,
----,$100000 .00
7471 8 .48
Received from Jurisdictions, etc. ----------

April 26,
April 28,
April 30,
April 27,
May 3,
August 3,
Sept. 8,
Sept. 13,
Sept. 28,

Total Donations Received __________________ _

$174718 . 48

Disbursements.

2439
Clothing Department.

Since September 14th, 1906, we haNe furnished supplies from our Clothing Department to 97 families."
•
Employment.

We have secured positions for one hundred and eleven persons (111 ),
segregated as follows :3·
Tailors ________________________________ ------ --Drummers -------------------------------------7

From September 14th to October 6th, inclusive.
Transportation --------------------- _ ______ ____
84.40
Incidental ExJ,>Elnses ----- -- _________ _
_ ____
256 . 70
~ery ana Supplies _______ ___
_______ ···--6 . 50
Assistants ____________ -----------------. 347. 50

l::i'

3

E~~-=-===-===-===~======~==-=======- 2681.00
~:68
f:l:is __~~~
-=-================================
~8~:68
hpplies,
(including
$5327 .
expended by Grand
Draya.ge
KonerJven
for Relief _____ -----------··-~-------

83
rurnr:aster ------------------------------------"ture and Fixtures ----------------~---------

10393.81
35 . 00

Total--- - $14367 . 01

344

GR.A.ND LODGE OF 0.ALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Amount expended for Supplies from September 14th
to October 6th,. inclusive.

Furniture --------------- -----------------~---- $2705.74
Drugs- ----------_--------------------------·---.60
Ladies' Clothing ______________________ .~_________
218. 65
Men's Clothing _ _____ _____ __ __ ________ __ ___ ___ _
277. 50
Optical Supplies __________ ·-----------··--------65.65
Books -- --------------------------------------135.50
Gas Stoves ------------------------------------49.68
lil!ltrUIDents -------------------- --------------193.50
Instruments -----------------------------------150.00
Chemicals, etc. ---- ----------------------------65.00
Stoves and Utensils ______ ----------------··---·148.69
Sewing Machines-- -----------------------------680.00
Crockery and Cutlery, etc.··------------- - -------375.47
Supplies purchased by Grand Master ---~--------5327 .83 .
.
Total.---- $10393.81
Assets.

345

Which was referred to a special committee of three, and
the Deputy Grand Master named the following brethren to
constitute such committee:
. On General Masonic Relief Fund.
M.".W.".Charles W. Nutting,
V.".R.".Jacob Nieto,
W.".James W. Anderson.

Bro. Harry S. Johnson, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following Officers and Representatives of
chartered Lodges, Delegates from Lodges under dispensation and Past Masters by ser_vice within this jurisdiction, as
being present and entitled to seats, viz., fromCalifornia Lodge, No. I . -

Cash on hand __________
__ ----------------1631.50
Ca.sh in Bank
________________________ _ 75223 .20
Roller Top Desk-- ------------ _______ ______ _
40.00
20.00
Roller Top Desk- --------------- ---------------

Henry A. Cline, Master;
William J. Golcher, Senior Warden;
Francis V. Keesling, Junior Warden;
H. Ascroft, Past Master;
G. Childs, Past Master;
W. Crocker, Past Master;
F. H. Day, Past Master;
G. Johnson, Past Master;
H. M. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Grand Master;
E. Peabody, Past Master;
C. M. Plum, Past Master;
W . A. Scott, Past Master;
C. D. Wilson, Past Master.
Western Star Lodge, No. a.Charles E. Brown, Master .and Past Master;
Wm. A. Speak, Junior Warden.
Benicia Lodge, No. 5.Ansley K . Salz, Master;
E. B. Billings, "Past Master;
J. R. B. Chisholm, .Past Master;
D. M. Watson, Past Master.
Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8.Robert E. Rundell, Senior Warden.
31

346

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Corinthian Lodge, No. 9.Charles F. Chase, Master.

Mariposa, Lodge, No. 24.J ohn S. Larew, Master and Past Master;
E. P. Wason, Past Master.

Yount Lodge,• No. 12.Harry L. Johnson, Master;
J. B. Stevens, Past Grand Master;
F. W. Williams, Past Master.

Georgetown Lodge, No. 2,s.-

Nevada Lodge, No. 13.Joseph F. Stenger, Master;
A. S. Lord, Past Master.

Palmyra Lodge, No. 26.Louis A. Reeg, Senior Warden.

Temple Lodge, No. 14.J oseph H . Potter, Master and Past Master.

Trinity Lodge, No. 27.August F. Bremer, Senior W arlen.

Eureka Lodge, No. 16.J. G. Bisbee, Past Master and Representative;
J . H. Neff, Past Master.

Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30.Robert ]. Airey, Master;
Chas. L. Parks, Senior Warden;
William W. Thompson, Junior Warden;
C. 0. Johnson, Past Master;
W. A. T. Agard, Past Master;
C. L. Meyer, Past Master;
W. S. M°oses, Past Master;
]. Patterson, Past Master;
W. G. Wright, Past Master.

Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18.Wm. I. Redding, Master and Past Master.

Gold Hill Lodge, No. 32.Hans P. Jansen, Master and Past Master;
J. Gerber, Past Master.

.

San Joaquin Lodge, No.. 19.J. W. Cavis, Past Master and Representative.

Ophir Lodge, No. 33.D. B. Driver, Past Master and Representative.

Washington Lodge, No. 20.J. ]. McKinnon, Past Ma!!ter and Representative.

San Diego Lodge, No. 35.Herbert A. Croghan, Master.

Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21.J. D. Tucker, Representative.

St. John's Lodge, No. 37.Clifford E. Butler, Master;
J. J. Wilson, Past Master.

Occidental Lodge, No. 22.Wm. V. Bryan, Master;
James M. Gleaves, Senior Warden;
Samuel H. Clawson, Junior Warden.
Madison Lodge, No. 23..
Thomas Ingram, Master a_nd Past Mastei:;
F. Aver, Past Master;
E. Coleman, Past Master;
J. Coleman, Past Master.

·

G. W. Simpers, Past Master and Representative;
I. G. Swift, Past Master.

La Parfaite ·union, No. 17.Thomas Sehabiaque, Master;
Henry Mottet, Senior Warden;
Marcus W. Frederick, Junior Warden;
0. M. Goldaracena, Past Master;
A. Huguenin, Past Master.

,

347

Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38.Ralph J. Mattison, Junior Warden.

...

.

;

Yuba Lodge, No. 39.David Powell, Master and Past Master;
J. B. Fuller, Past Master;
E. E. Stone, Past Master.

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.W. M. Petrie, Past Master.
Martinez Lodge, No. 41.William A. Hale, Master;
W. S. Wells, Past Grand Master.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42.0scar J. W. Burg, Master;
S. Prager, Past Master
Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44.Herbert F. Ward, Master;
William H. Dolling, Senior Warden;
Clarence Erikson, Junior Warden;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
T . Frolich, Past Master;
]. C. Jens, Past Master;
]. F. Schroth, Past Master;
A. Woodside, Past Master.
Crescent Lodge, No. 45.Drury W. Rice, Master and Past Master;
Chester E. Cutting, Senior Warden;
G. Curtis, Past Master;
B. Stone, Past Master.
Texas Lodge, No. 46.William R. Flint, Master;
William W. Canfield, Senior Warden;
T. Flint, Past Grand Master;
A. S. Moore, Past Master;
I. W. Moore, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Union Lodge, No. 58.- .
T. J. Baker, Past Master and Representative.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.Wager S. Smith, Master;
Anton C. Jackson, Junior Warden;
J. A. Beckwith, Past Master;
E." H. Hart, Past Master;
R. W. Meek, Past Master;
J. J. Warner, Past Master;
A. B. Webster, Past Master.
Natoma Lodge, No. 64.C. H. Ecklon, Past Master.
Amador Lodge, No. 65.James E. Taylor, Senior Warden;
J. E. Dye, Past Master.
Morning Star Lodge, No. 68.0rrin S. Henderson, Past Grand. Master and Rep.
G. H. Buttrick, Past Master;
E. W. Butters, Past Master.
Enterprise Lodge, No. 70.A. G. Woodworth, Master.
Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76.Frederick W. Clough, Master and Past Master·
J. F. Anderson, Past Master.
'

Forbestown Lodge, No. 50.William J. Schultz, Master and Past Master.

Calaveras Lodge, No. 78.J oseph ]. Halley, Master.

Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51.W. R. Culver, Past Master and Representative;
A. Stevens, Past Master.

Humboldt Lodge, No. 79.Charles H . Falor, Master;
G. W. Hunter, Past Grand Master.

Suisun Lodge, No. 5s_.Ralph M. Sheldon, Master.

Ione Lodge, No. So.Eugene G. Woolsey, Master and Past Master.

Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57Carlton A. Lane,.. Master;
C. M. Bumbaugh, Past Master;
A. C. McMeans, .P ast Master;
F. L. Jones, Past Ma.ster ..

Yolo Lodge, No. 81.Geo. H. Hoppin, Senior Warden and Past Master.
Rising Star Lodge, No. 83.J ohn A. Ferguson, Senior Warden.
G. R. Cowan, Representative.

349

~50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Oroville Lodge, No. 103.-

Vesper Lodge," No. 84.Glenn L. Allen, Master;
Frank L. Doane, Junior ~arden.
Naval Lodge, No. 87.Lawrence H. Kaarsberg, Master;
Alexander Greig, Senior Warden;
William H. Mitchell, Junior Warden;
J. J. Luchsinger, Past Master;
A. McDaid, Past Master.
Quitman Lodge, No. 88J. Glasson, Representative.
North Star Lodge, No. 91.Fred S. Henderson, Master and Past Master.
Acacia Lodge, No. 92.Leonard Thomas, Master and Past Master;
Albert W. Norris, Junior Warden.
St. Helena Lodge, No. 93.J ohn H. Allison, Senior Warden.

Roger S. Kitrick, Master.
Lexington Lodge, No. 104.-·
William R. Pearson, Master.
J. D. McLeod, Past Master.
Arcata Lodge, No. 106.Geo. H. Burchard, Master and Past Master.
Chico Lodge, No. I I I . William H. Nunn, Master.
Eden Lodge, No. u3.Herman F. W. Helms, Master.
Concord Lodge, No. u7.A.- De Johnson, Past Master and Representative.
Clinton Lodge, No. ~19.James W. George, Master and Past Master.

Howard Lodge, No. 96.J. E. Harman, Past Master and Representative.

Fidelity Lodge, No. 120.Charles Schlessinger, Master;
John P. Albro, Senior Warden·
Joseph D. Abrams, Junior Wa~den ·
P. Davis, Past Master;
'
M. Goldman, Past Master;
P. Jacobovics, Past Master;
J. Nieto, Past Master.

Jefferson Lodge, No. 97.Gilbert May, Master.

Alamo Lodge, No. 122.Cecil J. Booth, Master and Past Master.

Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95.W. H. Gunsolus, Past Master and Representative;
L. Katz, Past Master.

Hornitos Lodge, No. g8.-·
William Adams, Past Master and Representative ..
La Grange Lodge, No. 99.Edward J. McKain, Master;
Frederick W. Yokum, Senior Warden.
Clay Lodge, No. 101.Bernard H. Huysink, Senior Warden.
Manzanita Lodge, No. 102.Henry German, Senior Warden.

Sotoyome Lodge, No. 123.William W. Ferguson, Master;
J. H. Gunn, Past Master.
Table Mountain Lodge, No. 124.H. C. White, Past Master and Representative;
C. F. Lott, Past Master. ·
Lafayette Lodge, No. 126.Frank M. Martin, Master and Past Master.

351

~52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

Hermann Lodge, No. 127.August Busse, Master;
Otto Lemcke, Senior Wa·rden;
G. C. Beck, Past Master;
F . Gercke, Past Master;
L. Schumacher; Past Master;
H. G. Schwesinger, Past Master.
Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129.James M. Hicks, Master and Past Master.
Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131. Frank Perrott, Master.
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132.R. W. Young, Past Master and Representative.
Yosemite Lodge, No. 133·Samuel D. Hobron, Master.
Vacaville Lodge, No. 134.Woodbury McC. Goodwin, Master;
Sterling P. Dobbins, Senior Warden;
John T . Montgomery, Junior Wardeu.
Pacific Lodge, No. 136.Andrew W. Turpin, Master;.
Charles E. Jackson, Senior Warden;
Edward F. Leonard, Junior Warden;
I. J. Aschheim, ·P ast Master;
W. H. Edwards, Past Master;
F. L. Hansen, Past Master;
W. E. Lutz, Past Master;
G. Penlington, Past Master;
T. Penlington, Past Master;
G. M. Perine, Past Master.
Crockett Lodge, No. 139·William Kahn, Master;
John P. Court, Senior Warden;
Albert P . Heise, Junior Warden;
H. F. Chase, Past Master;
E. S. Ciprico, Past Master;
C. Hilderbrandt, Past Master;
H. N ewhoff, Past Master.
Curtis Lodge, No. 140.Edward A. Cooley, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

353

Gr11fton Lodge, No. 141.T . H. Dixon, Past Master.
Franklin Lodge, No. 143.H. D. Kercheval, Past Master and Representative.
Oriental Lodge, No. 144· Clarence W. Dobie, Master;
Oscar P . Hicks, Senior Warden;
Robert R. Moody, Junior Warden;
C. Bone, Past Master;
~ . W. R. L. Campbell, Past Master;
R. C. Jewell, Past Master;
R. H. Lloyd, Past Master;
J. Tonningsen, Past Master.
Abell Lodge, No. 146.Arthur J. Thatcher, Master;
J. M. Mannon, Sr., Past Master;
J. McMurry, Past Master.
Eel River Lodge, No. 147·J ohn M. Cornick, Master.
Lassen Lodge, No. 149·J. E. Pardee, Past Master and Representative.
Molino Lodge, No. 150.J ohn Simpson, Master and Past Master.
Woodland Lodge, No. 156.B. Ball, Past Master.
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158.J . Wiegand, Past Master and Representative.
A. McFarland, Past Master.
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166.Edwin L. Foster, Master;
John W. Cameron, Senior Warden;
Herman C. Gingg, Junior Warden;
C. H. Bryan, Past Master;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
C. Cook, Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Past Master;
F. C. Hensley, Past Master;
H . J. Owen, Past Master;
J. J. Stofen, Past Master.

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Alameda Lodge, No. 167.Charles Evans, Master;
A. Norris, Past Master.
Redwood City Lodge, No. 168.Thomas O. Heydenfeldt, Master and Past Master;
Frank K. Towne, Senior Warden.
Mission Lodge, No. 169.John Thompson, Master;
Edward F. Crosett, Senior Warden;
Sherman A. Bi~hop, Junior Warden;
R. S. Allen, Past Master;
H. C. Bunker, Past Master;
C. A. Day, Past Master;
C. F. Libby, Past Master;
G. W. Lunt, Past Master;
W. W. Moore, Past Master;
W. C. Ordway, Past Master;
M. Van B. Taylor, Past Master;
E. W. Tucker, Past Master.
Elk Grove Lodge, No. 173.J es·se L. Reith, Master.
Antioch Lodge, No. 175.Walter S. Moore, Master and Past Master;
Ralph M. Beede, Senior Warden.
Phoenix Lodge, No. 1,S.Thomas W. Orme, Master.
Mendocino Lodge, No. 179.T. J. Richards, Past Master and Representative;
C. J. Wood, Past Master.
Petaluma Lodge, No. 18o.August W. Horwege, Master;
L. C. Byce, Past Master.
Russian River Lodge, No. 181.Lawrence H. Wilson, Master and Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Claiborne Lodge, No. 185.J. C. Lane, Past Master.
Evening Star Lodge, No. 186.Alexander Parker, Jr., Master;
C. W. Nutting, Past Grand Master.
Keith Lodge, No. 187.- ·
Jam es C. Pa tis on, Junior Ward en.
Oakland Lodge, No. 188.E. H. Morghan, Past Master and Repre!entative;
J. B. Merritt, Past Master;
G. C. Pardee, Past Master;
W. F. Pierce, Past Master;
H. A. Powell, Past Master;
W. F. Williamson, Past Master.
Northern Light Lodge, No. 190.Samuel G. Smith, Master and Past Master;
William G. Wagoner, Junior Warden.
Marin Lodg~, No. 191.David Duncan, Master;
Henry E. Greer, Senior Warden;
Carson C. Hanson, Junior Warden;
F. M. Angellotti, Past Grand Master;
G. F. Rodden, Past Master.
Ferndale Lodge, No. 193.Albert M. Dinsmore, Junior Warden.
Buckeye Lodge, No. 195.John E. Sackett, Master and Past Master.
San Simeon Lodge, No. 196..
J. S. Arbuckle, Past Master and Representative.
Wilmington Lodge, No. 198.T. B. Hayes, Past Master and Representative.

Clear Lake Lodge, No. 183.L. Evans, Representative.

Hartley Lodge, No. 199.Albert M. Reynolds, Senior Warden;
C. J. Monroe, Past Master.

Sierra Valley Lodge, No. 184.Gaines L. Coates, Master and Past Master.

Truckee Lodge, No. 200.Howard W. Wilmoth, Master and Past Master.

355

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Silveyville Lodge, No. 201.Harry McFadycn, Master.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202.Charles H. Brown, Master;
J. B. Gist, Past Master;
G. Q. Stewart, Past Master;
J. F. Hughes, Past Master.
Confidence Lodge, No. 203.J ohn E. Miller, Master and Past Master.
Newville Lodge, No. 205.Z. P. Dyer, Representative.
Stanislaus Lodge, No. 206.C. D. Swan, Past Master and Representative.
Anaheim Lodge, No. 207.Philip H. Krick, Master and Past Master;
Chester E. Holcomb, Junior Warden.
Rio Vista Lodge, No. 2o8.August Gloff, Senior Warden;
T. P. Emigh, Past Master.
,.
King David's Lodge, No. 209.D. M. Garrison, Past Master and Representative.
Friendship Lodge, No. 210.Franklin B. Warring, Master;
Fred'k L. Cauch, Senior Warden;
Frank T. Edmans, Junior Warden;
H. D. Mathews, Past Master;
D. W. Smyth~, Past Master.
South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212.J ames A. J. McDonald, Senior Warden;
Madsen ]. Iverson, Junior Warden;
W. McDonald, Past Master;
H . F. Williams, Past Master.
San Buenaventura Lodge, No. 214.Merle J. Rogers, Master and Past Master;
D. ]. Reese, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 2i5.Henry M. Hammond, Master;
Edmund D. Rue, Senior Warden;
Burton E. Combs, Junior Warden.
Doric Lodge, No. 216.Fred'k L. Wight, Master;
Moses M. Getz, Senior Warden;
William E. Joslyn, Junior Warden;
W. F. Curlett, Past Master;
L. Goodday, Past Master;
C. B. McCroskey, Past Master;
S. Myrson, Past Master.
Monterey Lodge, No. 217.Emest A. Scholze, Master.
Esperanza Italiana Lodge, No. 219.Luigi Valsangiacomo, Senior Warden.
Downey Lodge, No. 220.Toy B. Gibson, Senior Warden.
Bakersfield Lodge, No. 224.Ira H . Glenn, Master.
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225.John A. Petty, Master;
Herbert P. Briggs, Senior Warden.
San Mateo Lodge, No. 226.Daniel W. Donnelly, Senior Warden;
H. Luff, Past Master.
Solano Lodge, No. 229.Ro bert L. Robertson, Master;
John F. Walters, Junior Warden;
J. Q. Adams, Past Master;
F . R. Debolt, Past Master;
D. F. Dufour, Past Master;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master.
North Butte Lodge, No. 230.Richard Campbell, Senior Warden.
Janesville Lodge, No. 232.J ames I. Christie, Master and Past Master.

357

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Calistoga Lodge, No. 233.Joseph C. Wright, Master.

Lodi Lodge, No. 256.-

Surprise Valley Lodge, No. 235.Ransom K. Stanley, Master and Past Master.

Penrhyn Lodge, No. 258.Robert Kayo, Master.

Guadalupe Lodge No. 237.Paul B. Carter, Master;
W. T. Lucas, Past Grand Master and Representative.

Evergreen Lodge, No. 259.Chas. B. Bayley, Junior Warden.

Colusa Lodge, No. 240.0. Robinson, Past Master.
Santa Ana Lodge, No. 241.Fred'k W. Mansur, Master.
Magno1ia Lodge, No. 242.William P. Butcher, Master and Past Master.
Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243.C. F. Thomas, Past Master.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244.William G. Davidson, Master;
William J. Lawry, Senior Warden;
John Crossman, Junior Warden; ·
H. T. Huggins, Past Master.
Laurel Lodge, No. 245.J. D. Danner, Past Master and Representative.
Pomona Lodge, No. 246.Everett H. Welch, Master and Past Master;
J. R. Garthside, Past Master.
Alturas Lodge, No. 248.Simeon T. Ballard, Master;
E. C. Bonner, Past Master.
Landmark Lodge, No. 253.T. Hall, .Past Master a:nd Representative.
Reading Lodge, No. 254.Israel J. Johnson, Master;
C. C. Bush, Past Master.
Welcome Lodge, No. 255.Harry V. Woodgates, Master.

G. W. LeMoin, Past Master and ReprcEentative.

King Solomon's Lodge, No. 26o.Samuel B. Stevenson, Master;
George M. Davis, Senior Warden·
Ira S. Hobbs, Junior Warden;
'
G. E . Bacon, Past Master;
W. P. Filmer, Past Master;
R. E. Hartley, Past Master;
J. A. Hosmer, Past Master;
C. L. P. Marais, Past Master·
F. B. Wood, Past Master.
'
Tuscan Lodge, No. 261.George A. Ware, Junior Warden.
Lompoc Lodge, No. 262.Edwin C. Wilkin, Master and Past Master.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264.William H . Tunnell, Master;
Chas. N. Armstrong, Senior Warden·
Manuel F. Pires'. Junior Warden. '
North East Lodge, No. 266.J. Herrington, Representative.
Galt Lodge, No. 267.J oseph L. Orvis, Junior Warden.
Durant Lodge, No. 268.George Leonard, Junior Warden;
E. C. Bridgman, Past Master.
Pasadena Lodge, No. 272.Albert Mercer, Master.
Anchor Lodge, No. 27.3·Harmon J . Mayo, Master and Past Master.
Arroyo Lodge, No. 274.Benjamin E. Short, Senior Warden.

359

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

361

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Oakdale Lodge, No. 275.J . Haslocher, Past Master and Representative.
Selma Lodge, No. 277.Manuel Vincent, Master;
J. L . Mitchell, Past Master;
W. S. Robinson, Past Master.

Santa Paula Lodge, No. 291.Frank E. Davis, Master and Past Master;
John H. Orcutt, Senior Warden.
Orange Grove Lodge, No. 293.W arner B. Williams, Master;
W . S. Gregg, Past Master.
Traver Lodge, No. 294.G. W . Curle, Past Master and Representative.

Southern California Lodge, No. 278.George I. Kyte, Master;
J. A. Foshay, Past Grand Master;
W. P. J e'ffries, Past Master;
H. S. Orme, Past Grand Master;
H . Z. Osborne, Past Master;
D. R. Weller, Past Master.

Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296.Archibald Taylor, Master.

Hanford Lodge, No. 279.Delmar H. Latimer, Junior Warden;
J. C. Ensign, Past Master.

Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297.George E. Malo ne, Junior Warden;
G. W . McCoy, Past Master.

Mt. Jackson Lodge, No. 295.Isaac McGuffin, Master and Past Master.

Mt. Shasta Lodge, No. 281.A. C. Burbanks, Past Master and Representative.
South West Lodge, No. 283.Warren B. V aughan, Master.

:Mokelumne Hill Lodge, No. 2g8.Thomas C. Peters, Master and Past Master.
Liberty Lodge, No. 299.George L. Downing, Master.
Redlands Lodge, No. 300.W alter McN. Campbell, Master;
J. A. Stone, Past Master.

San Miguel Lodge, No. 285..
Gerald N. Douglas, Master.
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286.Myron H . Brooks, Master and Past Master.

Ontario Lodge, No. 301.Geo. P. Sinith, Representative.
Porterville Lodge, No. 303.Rob ert Harbach, Master.

Winnedumah Lodge, No. 287.A. Cohn, Representative.
Maxwell Lodge, No. 288.H . J. Cook, Past Master and Representative.

Reedley Lodge, No. 304.Geo. A. Hawkins, Master and Past Mastu;
Daniel L. Reed, Senior Warden.

Elsinore Lodge, No. 289.J ames Stewart, Master and Past Master.

Azusa Lodge, No. 305.Don DeW. Morgan, Master.

East Gate Lodge, No. 290.Gatesby C. Thom, Master;
Frank C. Mulkey, Junior Warden;
M. H. Flint, Grand Master;
0. Lawler, Past Master.

Ashlar Lodge, No. 3o6.Irwin W . Brink, Master.

Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307.0liver G. Tullis, Master and Past Ma :;ter.
14

"

...

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

363

Monrovia Lodge, No. 308.Richard B. Cowan, Master.

Consuelo Lodge, No. 325.Wm. W. Carpenter, Jr., Sen. Warden and Past Master.

Delano Lodge, No. 309.Christian W. Cline, Master and Past Master.

,1,0ng Beach Lodge, No. 327.Edward P. Dewey, Master.

Sisson Lodge, No. 310.Edward H. Kaupp, Senior Warden.

Redondo Lodge, No. 328.J oseph C. Gillespie, Master.

Tehachapi Lodge, No. 313.Peter J. McFarlane, Master and Past Master.

Vallee de. France Lodge, No. 329.C. Deutsch, Past Master and Representative.

Temescal Lodge, No. 314.Charles M. Scoville, Master.

Kilauea Lodge, No. 330.C. H. Fairer, Past Master..

Norwalk Lodge, No. 315.Alphons E. Dressell, Master.

Pacific Grove Lodge, No. 331.E. S. Johnston, Representative.

Sanger Lodge, No. 316.0. Hayward, Past Maste;- and Representative.

San Pedro Lodge, No. 332.W m. C. Hill, Master.

Fallbrook Lodge, No. 317.Jesse T. Fickas, Senior Warden.

Alta Lodge, No. 333.Elmer A. Kirkwood, Senior Warden;
J. D. Murphey, Past Master.

Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318.M. LaPaint, Past Master and Representative.
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319.Leo. V. Y oungworth, Master and Past Master.
Joseph A. Smith, Junior Warden;
J. M. Dunsmoore, Pa·st Master.
South Gate Lodge, No. 320.John W. Musselman, Master;
John. W. Kemp, Senior Warden;
Kearney L. Wilcox, Junior Warden.

Covina L~dge, No. 334.Franklin E. Dudderar, Master.
West Gate Lodge, No. 335.Ellsworth F. Richards, Master.
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336.W m. G. Thorn·alley, Jr., Master;
Cornelius Carew, Senior Warden;
W. H. Fraser, Past Master.

Alisa! Lodge, No. 321.E. E. Hall, Past Master and Representative.

Carquinez Lodge, No. 337.George Jones, Master;
H. G. Powers, Past Master.

Alhambra Lodge, No. 322.Ralph B. Clapp, Master.

San Jacinto Lodge, No. 338.J oseph B. Mc Cue, Senior Warden.

Whittier Lodge, No. 323.J ames H. Stewart, Master.

Fullerton Lodge, No. 339.J. C. .Braly, Representative.

Corona Lodge, No. 324.Lemuel L. Test, Senior Ward en.

Santa Maria Lodge, No. 340.Elbert E. Blosser, Master and Past Master.

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Oxnard Lodge, No. 341.Earle Carr, Master and Past Master.

Presidio Lodge, No. 354-Robert A. Grier, Master.

Manila Lodge, No. 342.A. G. Bellis, Representative.

Hollywood Lodge, No. 355.Theodore Heinig, Master;
John P . Day, Senior Warden;
George Lingo, Junior Warden;
G. F. Stevenson, Past Master.

San Fernando Lodge, No. 343.Wm. T. Burr, Master.
Starr King Lodge, No. 344.Da vid S. Hirshberg, Master;
Wm. A. Keller, Senior Warden;
I. B. Schantz, Past Master.
Brentwood Lodge, No. 345-Robert Wallace, Master and Past Master.
Palo Alto Lodge, No. 346.Louis H. Barker, Ma·s teq
Milton B. Roller, Senior Warden;
C. W. Decker, Past Master.
McKinley Lodge, No. 347.J ohn . Mel. Morrison, Master;
Palen Church, Senior Warden.
San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348.Benj. F . Bledsoe, Junior Warden ;
J. B. Frith, Past Master.
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349.Charles Husband, Master ;
James C. Cole, Senior Warden;
John P . MacGregor, Junior Warden;
W . J . Chesney, Past Master;
]. W. Gwilt, Past Master.
Palestine Lodge, No. 351.Arthur J . Wheeler, Master;
Henry D. McCabe, Senior Warden;
E. E . Selph, Past Master.

Mill Valley Lodge, No. 356.J ames Newlands, Jr., Master;
Samuel M. Burt, Senior Warden;
Thomas T. Greaves, Junior Warden;
L. L . Janes, Past Master.
Buena Park Lodge, No. 357.James H. Whitaker, Master.
Golden State Lodge, No. 358.Peter W . Garn, Master;
Geo. H. Tenbrook, Junior Warden;
J. H. Bean, Past Master.
San Francisco Lodge, No. 360.Harry S. Johnson, Master;
Jesse C. Perry, Junior Warden;
H. -D . Loveland, Past Master.
Charity Lodge, No. 362.J esse J. Cornell, Master;
Sylvanus R. Wade, Senior Warden;
F . M. Righter, Past Master.
Berkeley Lodge, No. 363.James L. Robison, Master;
Julian J. Benton, Junior Warden;
J. T . Morrison, Past Master.
Olivet Lodge, No. 364.Wm. H. Samson, Master.

Sunset Lod·ge, No. 352.Sedgewick Z. Osmund, Master;
Samuel E . Burke, Senfor Warden.

Las Palmas Lodge, No. 366.Albert B. Clark, Master;
B. A. Fassett, Past Master;
J. C. Pottle, Past Master.

Pinole Lodge, No. 353.J ohn C. Paterson, Master. •

South Pasadena Lodge, No. 367.Benjamin V. Ganvood, Master.

365

366

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Unity Lodge, No. 368.George U. Moyse, Master and Past Master.
Ocean Park Lodge, No. 36g.A lex. R. Fraser, Master and Past Master.
Amity Lodge, No. 370.Robert J . Laughrey, Master;
William J. Loveland, Senior Warden;
Edward Stephenson, Junior Warden.
Oceanic . Lodge, No. 371.J. D. Tucker, Representative.
Gardena Lodge, U. D.Fred'k B. Williamson, Senior Warden.
Jewel Lodge, U. D.Arthur B. Sanborn, Junior Warden.
Francis Drake Lodge, U .. D.Geo. F. McDonald, Master;
John J. McDonald, Junior Warden
Mizpah Lodge, U. D.Charles E . Sebastian, Master and Past Master.
Fillmore Lodge, U. D.Gilbert E. Webb, Master and Past Master.
Huntington Beach Lodge, U. D.Andrew W. Griffith, Master.
Oceanside Lodge, U. D.Wm. VanD. Nichols, Master.

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren therein
named were admitted to seats.
The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report to the·
Grand Lodge as follows :
.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Master
and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
I beg to submit this brief report upon the condition and needs
of the Lodges in the several Masonic Districts of this Grand Jurisdiction.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

367

In August last a circular letter was sent to each District Inspector, which was intended as a sort of guide to them, pointing to
the matters which, as Inspectors, it would be their especial duty to
tnvestigate.
It is gratifying to be -able to say that nearly all the Inspectors
have sent in their repgrts concerning the work they have accomplished and the condition of the Lodges over which they have been
called to exercise supervision and impart the necessary instruction
in the Ritual and Work.
From the reports of the Inspectors, it is found that with few
exceptions the Lodges are in a prosperous condition; that the work
is in accordance with the Ritual and fairly well done; that the books
of secretaries are neatly and correctly kept; that the minutes are
properly transcribed by the secretaries and signed by thew:. M.".
as required by the Grand Lodge; that the dues, though not collected
in advanc~, as required by the Uniform Code of By-Laws, are generally paid at or before the annual election of officers. In tbis connection I might say that the custom of paying dues at the end of
the Masonic year has grown almost into a law.
The Inspectors report that they have been busy in the discharge of their official duties and have visited and instructed the
Lodges of their respective districts at all times when requested
by the Lodges to do so, and more than this, have voluntarily gone
to the Lodges and proffered their assistance.
It is to be regretted, however, that some Lodges, notably those
which are in the greatest need of instruction and assistance, are
the ones that not· only refrain from asking the Inspectors for help,
but also fail to get together when notified by the Inspector in
advance of his coming.
It would be of great benefit if the Grand Lodge should adopt a
regulation providing that where the Inspector is cognizant of a
Lodge in his district that from carelessness or lack of interest is
not able to confer any or all degrees in a creditable and proper
manner, the Inspector be authorized to forbid further work in the
Lodge until the fault be remedied.
I hold that the Inspector is
now so authorized; and I know of an instance where the Inspector,
knowing a certain Lodge in his district was not able to confer the
degree as it should be done, went to the w:. M.". of that Lodge
on the day the · degree was to be given and forbade it, until the
Lodge had been called together and practiced on the work until
the w:. M.". and his officers had acquired the necessary proficiency.
It was a splendid lesson, not only to the Lodge itself, but to the
other Lodges of that district. It was a glorious example of the
stamina of that Inspector and worthy of emulation by other Inspectors.

368

369

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

It has been apparent to me for several years that it would be
of benefit to the Lodges to require Junior Wardens-elect, before
being installed, to be able to confer the E. A. degree, and that
Senior Wardens be able to confer both E. A. & F. C.
Were this provision embodied in a Regulation, it would not
make it necessary for the Master-elect to cram into his memory in
a short time the entire work of the three degrees.
It would lessen the strain and confusion consequent upon
burdening the mind so much in so short a time, and it would lighten
the task of the lnspect9rs by having them examine the Masterelect only in the Ritual of the Third Degree and the law governing
Masonry in general and his duties as Master in particular. Upon
this question I have sounded the several Inspectors, and through
them the officers of the Lodges, and the result has shown the great
majority of all concerned very much in favor of such a regulation,
and I therefore respectfully suggest that such a regµlation be
adopte<j. by the Grand Lodge.
'
The following Inspectors have sent in their reports upon the
condition of their Lodges, and the reports reflect much credit upon
the zeal and fidelity with which they have performed the arduous
duties of their office:

John T. Porter ................. 26th District
Carlton C. Case ................ 27th District
John R. B. Chisholm ........... 29th District
Richard S. Allen ............... 31st District
Max Goldman ................. 3wd District
Delos W. Smythe .............. 33rd District
Francis A. Abbott ............. 34th District
James S. Larew ................ 35th District
Wm. D. Logan ................. 36th District
Guy P. Doyle ................. 37th District
James C. Pottle ................ 38th District
Adam J?mwn ........ : .......... 4oth District
David J. Reese ................. 41st District
George N. Black ............... 42nd District
David R. Weller ............... 43rd District
Henry Ramel .................. 44th District
Chas. E. Mitchell .............. 45th District
Philip H. Krick ................ 46th District
Joseph B. Frith ........ : ....... 47th District
Eli T. Blackmer ............... 48th District
Joshua D. Tucker ...•......•... 49th District
George F. Rodden ............. 52nd District
Roderick G. Guyett ............ 53rd District
John H. Bean ................. 54th District
Joseph R. Garthside ............ 55th District
and the following Special Inspectors for the Lodge's not working
in the English language:
0. M. Goldaracena, La Parfaite Union .. N.o. 17
Richard Sternitsky, Hermann ........ No. 127
Giovanni Scalmanini, Speranza Italiana.No. 219
Daniel Cave, Vallee de France ........ No. 329

A. J. Monroe .................... 1st District
Thos. J. Richards ............... 2nd District
C. W. "Nutting ................... 3rd District
Edward Sweeney ................ 4th District
E. C. Bonner ................... 5th District
Isaac F. Moffitt ................. 6th District
Julian E. Pardee ............... 7th District
James 0. Moncur ................ 8th District
E. L. Case ..................... 10th District
J. D. Murphy .................. 12th District
W. E. M~ervy ................ 13th District
M. D. Lininger ................ 14th District
Emil Meybem .................. 15th ·District
Jay W. Ashley ................. 16th District
J. .P. Danner .................... 17th District
Robt. L. Hutchinson ........... 18th District
C. J. Monroe .................. 19th District
John H. Gunn ................. 20th District
Alexander McDaid ............. 21st District
Levi ]. Nuttall ................. 22nd District
Byron Ball ..................... 23rd District
Max Mierson ................... 24th District
Jam es E. Dye ............... ~ .. 25th District

I presume that the Inspectors whose reports have not reached
me have, through business pressure or forgetfulness, neglected this
duty.
I regret that it has been impossible for me to do as much work
during the year as I had hoped and planned to do.
The great cal1amity of last April so much disturbed the whole
State that for several months it seemed impossible to settle· down
to the usual order of everyday business, and later the intense summer heat rendered work in the Lodge-rooms so disagreeable that
it would have been little less than torture for the brethren to assemble.
However, I have done the best that was possible under the
litcumstances.

371

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

It is known to the Grand Lodge and the membership throughout the State that at all times since I have held the office of Grand
Lecturer, I have been engaged in professional work in the city of.
San Francisco and could only devote such time to Masonry as
was not occupied in my profession.

reposed in me, and thanking the brethren for the many kindnesses
and courtesies extended me, I am,
Sincerely and fraternally,
WILLIAM H. EDWARDS,
Grand Lecturer.

There seems to be a sentiment among the Lodges that the
time has come when the Grand Lodge of California should have
its Grand Lecturer devote his entire time to the business of lecturing the Lodges, not only in the Ritual and Work of the Fraternity
as used in the conferring of c;legrees and the proper transaction
of the business of a Lodge, but also in the principles and groundwork of this greatest of all societies.
·

Which report was ordered, to be referred to· a Special
Committee of three, and the Grand Master named the following brethren to constitute _such committee-

It is well known many of our brethren know less about the
history and symbolism of Masonry than they should. They· are
eager to learn more. Nothing could be of more benefit to the
Grand Lodge than to have a Lecturer go from Lodge to Lodge,
stirring up interest, awakening enthusiasm and so bringing into
our brotherhood the good and the true of every community in our
glorious State.

The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge, as follows : -

370

I cannot close this report without saying something concerning "Anderson's Manual." When the author of that book had completed that most valuable volume and offered it to the Masons of
California, it was a complete compendium of the Constitution,
Regulations, Decisions, and Forms of every kind and character,
clearly and accurately stated and in all up to date in every particular, and it was a source o.f genuine pleasure to know that if one.,
wanted any form for any Masonic purpose, he had only to look in
. "Anderson's Manual," and, like a dear friend, it was there to greet
him. If one wanted to find any Masonic law or decision for Calrfornia, he had only to search "Anderson's Manual" and he found it.
If one sought to establish a new Lodge, every form of procedure
was in it. If a cornerstone was to be laid, the form was there,
and so on throughout, everything could there be found.
But one by one the forms have been dropped out, the decisions
which have been reversed do not now appear, and if we desire t,o
trace through them the rise and progress of Masonry in this State ·
we cannot do h.
I believi- from the comments of the brethren thrnui?:hout the
:State upon the changes and omissions above named that the Grand
Lodge should refer the book to its author tha·t it may be by him
revised, and that all that original volume contained should again
appear between its covers with whatever has since been ordained as
law or decision.
And now, thanking the Grand Lodge for the confidence it has

On Grand Lecturer's Report
Rodolph W. Meek,
Dana R. Weller,
Arthur J. Thatcher.

w:.

To the M.".
Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned herewith submit~ his account of the receipts
and expenditures of the Grand Lodge during the past year.
The Grand Treasurer in account with the Grand Lodge for
the fiscal year ending July 31st, 1906:
RECEIPTS.
1905·
Aug. 5.
Aug. 10.
Aug. 2i.
Aug. 29.
Oct. 5.
Oct. 27.
1906.
Jan. 2.
April 2.
Aug. 8.

Receive·d from Grand Secretary ..... $6,685 25
Received from Grand Secretary. . . . . 8,582 20
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 14,445 70
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 5,281 90
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 2,430 30
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 1,764 30
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 2,818 40
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 2,039 30
Received from Grand Secretary ..... 538 95
$44,586 30

1905·
Sept. 15.
l9o6.
Mar. 15.

Received interest on $7,000 Blue Lake
6% bonds .......... . ............. $210 00
Received interest on $7,000 Blue Lake
6% bonds ....... .... .... . .......

210 00
$420 00

Received interest on deposit with A.
Borel & Co ....... .. ............. ·
Total receipts for year ending July 31, l9o6 .....

266 21

372

373

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

DISBURSEMENTS.

Paid Frank Eastman for printing and binding
Proceedings of 190s, as per voucher No. 74. 1,1s9 oo
Paid E. J. McKain, funeral expense of Past
Grand Master Rucker, as per voucher No. 76 237 so
Paid Schmidt Lithograph Company for 74
charters, as per voucher No. 82 .... •. . . . . . . . 148 oo
Paid Wells Fargo & Co., shipping Proceedings
of Grand Lodge of 190s, as per voucher
No. 88.. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
88 52
Paid Jas. Fredericks & Co., office furniture, as
per voucher No. 5. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 431 oo
Paid R. H. Chamberlain, covering for floor, as
per voucher No. 7. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27 50
Paid Guyett Bavens, premiums on policies Nos.
34, S4 and 212, as per voucher No. 16......
37 oo
Paid E. M. Bartlet, for Premier typewriter, as
per voucher No. 2s .. : .. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 75
Paid expenses of Grand Lecturer, as per
vouchers Nos. 6, 68 and 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 294 os
Paid care of office, as per vouchers Nos. 8, 19,
45, S4, 65, 80, 93, 97, 21 and 31.. . . . . . . . . . . . IOO oo
Paid rent of office, as per vouchers Nos. S7,
78, 4 and 36 ............................. 1,12s oo
Paid printing and Stationery, as per vouchers
Nos. 22, 36, 38, s2, s8, 62, 72, 87, 3, II, 14
and 30. . . . . ...................... , . . . . . . 1,os3 8s
Paid for sundry roll call, pay roll, telephone,
pos.toffice box and incidental expense, as per
vouchers Nos. 2, 3, 4, S, IO, 13, 14, is, 17, 34,
3S, 39, 40, 41, 43, 44, 48, 50, SI, 6o, 61, 63, 49,
69, 70, 73, 7S, 83, 42, 8s, 89, 2, 4, 6, 9, 12, 13, IS,
17, 18, 19, 26, 28, 29 and 31.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,121 40
- - - $33,0S6 22
For Account of Payment of Representatives:
s
Paid Representatives of Lodges, as per pay roll .$4,5so IO
Paid Grand Officers and Chairmen of Committees ................................ · · · ·. 280 40
Paid Inspectors ............................. . 78o 40
IO 00
Paid reimbursed to Harry Johnson .......... .
$s,620 90
Total disbursements for the year ending Ju.y
31, 19o6.................................. .
$38,677 12
Balance cash on hand this date, July 31, 1906 ..
6,S9S 39

For Account of Salari~s of Grand Officers:
Paid Grand Treasurer as per voucher No. 33 .... $ 200 oo
Paid Grand Secretary as per vouchers Nos. II,
21, 47, s6, 67, 81, 91, 99, IOY,, 24 and 37 .... 3,000 oo
Paid Grand· Lecturer as per vouchers Nos. 7, 18,
S3, 64, 77, 90, 96, 8, 22 and 32.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,200 oo
Paid Assistant Grand Secretary as per vouchers
Nos. 9, 20, 46, SS, 66, 79, 92, 98, IO, 23 & 34 .. 1,soo oo
Paid Grand Organist as per voucher No. 28....
so oo
Paid Grand Tyler as per voucher No. 29...... 12s oo
- - - $6,07s 00
For Account of General Disbursements:
Paid overdraft at bank, as per last report. ..... $ I08 26
Paid George Johnson for 345 shares of Masonic
Hall stock, as per voucher No. 1 .......... I0,080 04
Paid Wm. A. Davies, Chairman of Committee on
Correspondence, as per voucher No. 12.. . . 2so oo
Paid Mutual T. & L. Co., as per voucher No. 16 2S$ oo
Paid Samuel Prager, appropriation to Los Angeles Board of Relief, as per voucher No. 23 3,000 oo
Paid E. Chase, appropriation to Liberty Lodge,
No. 299, as per voucher No. 24.,...........
IS oo
Paid J. B. Sheppard, appropriation to Russian
River Lodge No. 181, as per voucher N 0.25 157 45
Paid H. A. Woodworth, appropriation to Butte
Lodge No. 230, as per voucher No. 26...... 132 90
Paid J. G. Herron, appropriation to Yount
Lodge No. 12,.•as per voucher No. 27. . . . . . . 197 oo
Paid L. Wadham, experting Grand Treasurer's
and Grand Secretary's books, as per
voucher No. 30............................ 100 oo
Paid M. H. Flint, appropriation to Southern
California Home, as per voucher No. 31.. . . s,ooo oo
Paid M. H. Flint, contingent expense of Grand
Master, as per voucher No. 32 ............ 1,200 oo
Paid W. S. Wells, for expense of Special Committee, as per voucher No. 33. . . . . . . . . . . . .
so oo
Paid Radke & Co. for testimonial to Past Grand
Master Hunter,- as per voucher No. 37.... 300 oo
Paid Harry J. Maxwell, premium on bonds of
Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary, as
per voucher No. S9....................... 12s oo
Paid M"asonic Home for ,printing report.. . . . . . . 100 oo

374

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR.AND LODGE OF 0ALIFORNl.A.

The vouchers for all the foregoing, with the Grand Treasurer's
books, are herewith presented. ·He reports that he has in his keeping 5,881 shares of the capital stock of the Masonic Hall Association of the City of San Francisco, the par value of which is $58,8rn,
and the actual value $176,430, also seven 6 per cent $moo first mortgage bonds of the Blue Lake Water Co., the par value of which is
$7,000, the actual value $7,910.
All which is respectfully submitted by
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

DISBURSEMENTS.

He also presented his report as Treasurer of the Masonic
Widows and Orphans' Home, as follows:To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home:
The Grand Treasurer herewith submits his account of the receipts and expenditures of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans'
Home for the year ending September 30, 1906:
RECEIPTS.
Balance on hand from last year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$36,286 99
1906."
Jan. 2. Received from the Grand Secretary . . $1,250 15
Aug. 8. Received from the Grand Secretary..
IO oo
Aug. 8. Received from the Grand Secretary. . 8,775 oo
Aug. 11. Received from the Grand Secretary.. 7,417 oo
Aug. 16. Received from the Grand Secretary .. 6,492 oo
Aug. 22. Received from the Grand Secretary. . 6,26o oo
Sept. 3. Received from the Grand Secretary •. 2,667 oo
Sept. 29. Received from the Grand Secretary.. 2,029 04
$34,900 19

1905.

Dec. 31.
Dec. 31

Dividend on deposit with San Francisco Savings Union ............. . $
Dividend on deposit with Union Trust
Company ...................•....

49 20

Paid Edward Peabody for new reservoir, as
per voucher No. 4. . . . . . . . . . . ...... . ...... $3,483 98
Paid Geo. Johnson, salary, as per vouchers
Nos. 388, 6 and 7 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 450 00
Paid Edward Peabody, Masonic Home supplies,
as per voucher No. 383.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,926 85
Paid E. Peabody, for pay roll, as per vouchers
Nos. 384, 386, 389, 2, 5, 8, 3, 5, 8, IO and 13. 7,249 85
Paid E. Peabody, for sundries, as per vouchers
Nos. 385, 387, 1, 3, 6, 9, 4, 7, 9, II and 12 ... 18,791 77
Total disbursements for year ending
September 30, 19o6 .... ... .... $31,902 45
Srpt. 30. Balance cash on hand this date. . . . 39,8o7 40
- - -. $71,709 85
Disposition of Money on Hand:
With A. Borel & Co.. . ...... .. ....... $36,075 85
With San Francisco Savings Union.. 3,051 54
With Union Trust Company . . . . . . . .
680 01

All which is respectfully submitted,
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

Both which reports, with their accompanying books and
r1;1uchers, were ordered to be referred to the Committee on
Frnance.

IO 85

1906.
Dividend on deposit with San Francisco Savings Union............. .
June 30. Dividend on deposit with Union
Trust Company ................. .
Interest on deposit with A. Borel
& Co. .......• . ....... .. . .... .

375

The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock
tomorrow morning.

June 30.

50 02
II

02

401 58
$522 67
$71,709 85

376

GRAND LODGE OF C.ALIFORNL.\.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Visalia Lodge, No. 1:28.
Frederick W. Ward, Master.

3Ju °'ruuh iGnhgr.

pac:11lc Lodge, No. 136.
J. W. Anderson, Past Master.

Morning Session,
Wednesday, October 10th, A. L. 5906.

Vftravius Lodge, No. 145.
Louis C. Bailey, Senior Warden.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

Lassen Lodge, No. 149.
W. Brockman, Past Master.

The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.

Woodland Lodge, No. 156.
Ira A. Morris, Master.

Bro. Harry S. Johnson, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following additional officers of chartered
Lodges, and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz: from

:Marin Lodge, No. 191.
R. Furlong, Past Master.

Tehama Lodge, No. 3.
T. J. Milliken, Past Master and Representative.
J. E. Thompson, Past Master.

l'entalpha Lodge, No. 202.
W. R. Hervey, Past Master.
Salinas Lodge, No. 204.
J. K. Alexander, Past Master and .Representative.
San Benito Lodge, No. 211.

San Jose Lodge, No. 10.
John P. Jarman, Master and Past Master.
Yount Lodge, No. 12.
Elmer L. Bick.ford, Senior Warden.
Chas. E. Trower, Junior Warden.
C. B. Johnson, Past Master.
P. S. King, Past Master.
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38.
E. S. West, Past Master.
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.
E. C. Atkinson, Past Master and Representative.
Martinez Lodge, No. 41.
L. N. Buttner, Past Master.
George Washington Lodge, No. 62.
John A. Smith, Master ancl Past Master.
Chico Lodge No. 111.
E. Meybem, Past Master.

E\lwin S. Logan, Senior Warden.
:Monterey Lodge, No. 217.
W. Kay, Past Master.
Rope Lodge, No. 234.
'
Roger D. Mathews, Master and Past Master.

Surprise Valley Lodge, No. 235.
T. H. Johnstone, Past Master.
Hill's Ferry Lodge, No. 236.
Jul~s

G. S. Cain, Master.

Fresno Lodge, No. 247.
E. D. Edwards, Past Master and Representative.
l'enrhyn Lodge, No. 258.
J. P. M. Phillips, Past Master.
Durant Lodge, No. 268.
William H. H. Gentry, Senior Warden.
15

377

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Berkeley Lodg\l, No. 363.
James F. Hill, Senior Warden.

379

"Willits" Lodge, No. 365, at Willits, by the W.·. Robt. L. Hutchinson, Inspector of the Eighteenth District;
"Las Palmas" Lodge, No. 366, at Fresno, by the R.·. W.:. Edward

Artesia Lodge, U . D.

H. Hart, Deputy Grand Master;

George R. Frampton, Master and Past Master.

"Amity" Lodge, No. 370, at San Francisco, by the R. ·. W.·. Ed-

ward H. Hart, Deputy Grand Master;

Which report was concurred in and the brethren therein
named were admitted to seats.
The M. :.·W. :. Edmund C. Atkinson, Past Grand Master,
appeared and took his seat.
The Grand S~cretary presented his annual report to the
Lodge, as follows :

"Oceanic" Lodge, No. 371, at Honolulu, by the W.:. Joshua D.
Tucker, Inspector of the Forty-ninth District;
"South Pasadena" Lodge, No. 367, at South Pasadena; '.'Unity ".
Lodge, No. 368, at Glendale, and "Ocean Park" Lodge,. No. 369, at
Santa Monica, by tb_e M.:. W. ·. Motley H. Flint, Grand Master.
Since the last Annual Communication, dispensations for the forma-.
tion of nine new Lodges have, by direction of the Gran~ Master, been
issued from this office, as follows:
.
Oct. 14, 1905-To "Veteran" Lodge, at Sawtelle, Los Angeles"eounty;

To th-:i M.·. W. :. Grand Lodge of California :
The undersigned submits his Sixteenth Annual Report, and notwithstanding the aw·ful disaster of April last, he believes that all
transactions of his office for the year as sh.ould necessitate action by
the Grand Lodge .will be fully presented for its consi_deration.
At the earliest day possible after the close of the last Annual Communication, seventeen hundred copies of the Proceedings were distributed, or reserved for future binding, in the customary ma~mer,
viz.: one copy to each of the present Grand Officers; one copy to each
of the elective Past Grand Officers; three copies to each of the Grand
Bodies, American and J<'oreign, with which we are in correspondencll;
one copy to each Inspector, and two copies to each of the Lodges of
our Jurisdiction.
New editions of the Constitution, Anderson's Manual, Monitor,
Example Lodge, Installation Service, Form for Record of Trial, Uni'.
form Code of By-Laws, Funeral Service and Ceremonies for Laying
Corner-Stones, Dedicating Halls and Constituting Lodges have been
issued, all of which had been destroyed by fire.
The Proceedings of all the Gr~nd Lodges of the United States, for
the year, have been receive<l an.d placed in the hands of the Chairman
of the Committee on Correspondence, with the exception of Georgia,
Indian '.j'erritory, New Mexico, and '.J'ennessee, as have also those of
British Columbia, Canada, England, Manitoba, New Brunswick, Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Quebec.
The seven Lodges to which Charters were granted at the last
An"nual Communication were, in due season, properly constituted ; four
by deputies sp€cially appointed for that purpose, as .follows:
·

·.

Nov. 21, 1905-" J ewe!" Lodge, at San Francisco, San J<'r~ncisco
County;
Feb. 23, 19'0&-" Richmond" Lodge, at San Francisco, San Francisco
County;
Mar.

8, 190&-"Francis Drake" Lodge, at South San Francisco, San
Mateo County;

Mar. 27, 190&-" Artesia" Lodge, at Artesia, Los Angeles County;
June 9, 1906-"Mizpah" Lodge, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles County;
June 21, 190&-"Fillmore" Lodge, at Fillmore, Ventura County;
June 22, 1906--"Huntington Beach" Lodge, at Huntington Beach,
Orange County;
July 23, 1906-"0ceanside" Lodge, at Oceanside, San Diego County;
The petitions for -the foregoing dispensations, with the certificates
of withdrawal of the several ·petitioners from the Lodges of which
they had last been members, the . reco=endation of the proper chartered Lodges, and the necessary certificates as to the qualifications
of the Masters and Wardens proposed, were all correctly prepared and
presented, toget her with the returned dispensations and books of record and the petitions of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by Charter.
At the date of last Report th~re were two hundred · and ninetynine Lodges borne upon the roll of the Grand Lodge, ~th a membership of thirty-one thousand five hundred and sixty-one. Since that
time nine dispensations to form new Lodges have been granted, being
a gain of nine Lodges, and, added to above, makes a total number of
Lodges now in e:risten~e in this jurisdiction three hundred and eight,
with a membership of thirty-three thousand seven hundred and sixty-

+-

381

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

n:iiie, being a net gain for the year ~f nine Lodges and two thousand
two hundred and eight members.
The transcripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of appe~l, which have been received at this office since last Annual. Communication-all which have been placed in the hands of the Chairman
of the Committee on Grievances-are as follows: From

have been received, the approval of the Grand Master in fourteen
cases has been filed in this office. Of these, seven being from Lodges
Nos. 136, 259, 306, 324, 334, 347 and 356, proposed changes in time
for stated meetings; three, being from Lodge~ Nos. 1261 297 and 368,
proposed to increase the fee for the degrees; three, being from
Lodges Nos. 58, 320 and 349, proposed adopting the life membership
system, and one, being from 'Lodge No. 202, proposed creating an
affiliation fee.
~he approval or disapproval of the Grand Master being but temporary, the foregoing amendments, as required by our laws, have been
placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on By-Laws
of Lodges, and will be submitted to the Grand Lodge for final action,
as have the books of By-Laws of the nine Lodges now working under
dispensation.
The following resolution has been received and referred to the
Committee on Charters:
· "Resolved, That Ionic Lodge, No. 121, F. and A. M., voluntarily surrender its Charter to the Grand Lodge, and that the members apply
for their dimits to the Grand Secretary.''
The correspondence relative to above resolution has also been referred to that Committee.
Petition of "George Washington" Lodge, No. 62, and "Parfaite
Union" Lodge, No. 17, for·remiBBion of du.is, and documents relative
to a Board of Relief at Manila, have been placed in the hands o:f,' the
Chairman of the Finance Committee.
Business before Grand Lodge, at last Annual Communication, unfinished:
Consideration of Decision No. 15, Grand Master 's Address, relative
to the Lodges in Sacramento forming a corporation, under State laws,
for the purpose of providing for the perpetual care of lots in the
Masonic Lawn Cemetery. ' (Page 140, Proceedings 1905.)
Further consideration of reading the names of the Committee of
Investigation on petitions for the degrees or applications for membership. (Page 141, Proceedings 1905.)
Further consideration of the resolution that no Junior Warden of
a Lodge be installed until he shall have produced to the installing
officer a certificate from the Grand Lecturer or the Inspector of hie
District. (Page 154, Proceedings 1905.)
Resolution presented by Past Grand Master Charles L. Patton,
relative to representatives to and from Grand Lodges. (Page 156,
Proceedings 1905.)
The various registers and account books of this office, the vouchers
for the orders drawn upon the Grand Treasurer, the several letter

380

, , Manila• • Lodge, No. 342, Jamee l!'rancis Branham, expelle~ September 5, 1905;
"Marin" Lodge, No. 191, Charles W. Koerner, expelled January
31, 1906;
"Presidio" Lodge, No. 354, Emil Julius Kanngieseer, expelled

March 1, 1906;
''Hartley'' Lodge, No. 199, Franklin Ridgway Todd, expelled
April 7, 1906;
"Chico" Lodge, No. 111, Robert Emil G~eritz, expelled April 7,
1906.
"Manila" Lodge, No. 342, Hugh Kirkman (of Lodg_e No. 75,

Oklahoma), expelled May 1, 1906.
•
"California" Lodge, No. 1, William Silver Glover, expelled May 3,
1906.
"Chico" Lodge, No. 111, William Clawson, expelled June 2, 1906.

"Acacia" Lodge, No. 92, Harry Irwin, E. A., expelled July 6, 1906.
"MiBBion" Lodge, No. 169, Benjamin Beatty Duncan, expelled
August 1, 1906.
"Berkeley" Lodge, No. 363, Lester Clay McNulty, suspended ~ep0

tember 1, 1906.
"Truckee " Lodge, No. 200, Barton Willard Johnson, expelled September 12, 1906.
.
f
al
Transcripts of similar records, accompanied by ~otices o appe '
have been :received and transmitted to same co=ttee from
"Naval" Lodge, No. 87, Charles Franklin Mugridge, expelled November 16, 1905.
"Monterey 11 Lodge, No. 217, Augustus Antoine Manuel, :reprimanded November 17, 1905.
"Lexington" Lodge, No. 104, Charles L. Mulholland, expelled
January 6, 1906;
Lodge, No. 346, William Dean, reprimanded March
''Palo Alto''
31, 1906;
"tt d
' ' Fruitvale" Lodge, No. 336, Thomas Tipp,in Burnett, acqu1 e
July 7, 1906.
o the By-Lawe of Lodges which
Of the proposed amend~ente t

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

· books for the year, the files of letters received, and all other papers
concerning the business of the Grand .Lodge, not hereinbefore mentioned, are herewith pregented for inspection; as is also an account of
the revenues for the year ending on the thirty-first day of July last,
with the receipts of the Grand Treasurer for the moneys collected by
the undersigned, as follows:
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of California,
for the fiscal year ending on the 31st day of July, 1906.
Home Fund.
Gen. Fund.
1906.
July 31, From sundry sources from Aug. 1,
$37,178.30
1905, to this date ............ $31,571.00
'' fees for. Charters . . .... . .. . .
35!J.OO
5,881.00
" dividends Mas. Hall Ass'n.
" dispensations for sundry pur775.00
poses .. . ............... . .
156.00
" fees for diplomas .. . .... .. .
126.00
sales
of
Monitors
......
...
.
"
120.00
''
Manual .......... .
"
$31,571-

$44,586.30
$76,157.30

1905.
Contra.
Home Fund.
Aug. 4, Paid Grand Treasurer this date... $5,63!>.00
Aug. 9, Paid Grand Treasurer this date. . .
7,515.00
Aug. 19, Paid Grand Treasuru this date. . . 12,241.00
Aug. 25, Paid Grand Treasurer this date. . .
4,441.00
1,729.00
Oct.
5, Paid Grand Treasurer this date. . .
Vet. 26, Paid Grand Treasurer this date ...
1906.
Jan.
2, Paid Grand Treasurer this date .. .
April 2, Paid Grand 'freasurer this date .. .
10.00
July 31, Paid Grand Treasurer this date .. .

Gen. Fund.
$6,685.25
8,582.20
14,445.to
·5,281.90
2,430.30
1,764.30

Total payments to Grand Treasurer. . . . $31,571.00
Making an aggregate amount as above of

$44,586.30
$76,157.30

Am~unting collectively to

the sum of ..

.

2,818.40
2,039.30
538.95

Since my last Report the sum of $37,025.19 has been paid to the
Treasurer of the Masonic Widows and Orphans ' Home, and the sum
of $13,421.50, relief contributions, has been paid to the M.:. W.:.
Grand Master and W. Frank Pierce, Chairman of the General Relief
· Committee.
At the time.of going to print (October 5th) no Gra;nd Lodge Report
had been received from "Huntington Beach" Lodge, U. D. With

383

this •xception, the returns from all the Lodges have been received,
and their dues have been paid in full.
'.Respectfully submitted,
GEO. JOHNSON,
Grand Secretary.

Which was ordered to be referred to the same special
•mmittee as that upon the Address of the Grand Master.
He also presented· an itemized statement of amounts received by him from Lodges, etc., in this jurisdiction, for
tccount of the relief funi:l, as follows :
FromAmount.
lrorterville Lodge, No. 303, and Chapter, R. A. M ....... .... $150 00·
Ban Mateo Lodge, No. 226....................... .... ...... 100 00
BUckeye Lodge, No. 195 ............... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 oo
!rehachapi Lodge, No. 313............. ... ............. . ... 100 oo
Santa Maria Lodge, No. 340 ...........• ,.................. 100 00
:Mount Jackson Lodge, No. 295....... . ............... . .....
50 oo
Curtis Lodge, No. 140.... ... .................. ..... .......
50 00
l.oyalton Lodge, No. 359...................................
50 00
Ione Lodge, No. 80. . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264..................................
50 00
Yosemite Lodge, No. 133................ . .... , . . . . . . . . . . .
25 OO
Palmyra Lodge, No. 26.................................... 100 oo
Evening Sta:r Lodge, No. 186.... .. .........................
50 OO
Manzanita Lodge, No. 102 ... . ... ........•..... ,........ . ..
20 OO
Ashlar Lodge, No. 306..................................... 100 00
Pinole Lodge, No. 353..................................... 500 oo
Hornitos Lodge, No. 98....................................
20 00
Los Banos Lodge, No. 312................................. 100 00
Franklin Lodge, No. 143................................... 250 00
Visalia Lodge, No. 128..................................... 100 00
Laurel Lodge, No. 245................................... 100 00
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158 ... ......... . ...................
25 00
Bodie Lodge, No. 252..... . ............................... 250 oo
King David's Lodge, No. 209..............................
2 00
Truckee Lodge, No. 200....................................
50 oo
Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292.............. . . ................
50 oo
Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95.................................
75 00
McKinley Lodge, No. 347............. .. ............... . . .
25 00
Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51 ...........• . ............ : . . . . . .
25 oo
Willits Lodge, No. 365....................................
25 00
Lodi Lodge, No.··256...................................... 250 00

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount.
From100 00
Alta Lodge, No. 333 ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
250 00
Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297 ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
100 00
Trinity Lodge, No. 27... .. .................. ... ..........
50 00
Plumas Lodge, No. 60. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
50 00
Eden Lodge, No. 113 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·.......... 120 00
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38 (Lodge $100, Mrs. Booth $20) · · · ·
50 00
Hiram Lodge, No. 43................. .. ...... .. ..... . ... . .
50 00
Monterey Lodge, No. 217............................... . ..
50 00
Silveyville Lodge, No. 201. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · ' · · 200 OO
Abell Lodge, No. 146. · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •· · ·. 25 OO
Suisun Lodge, No. 55. . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 00
San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 30 0 00
Colusa Lodge, No. 240...................................
50 00
• Clear Lake Lo(lge, No. 183 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
50 OO
Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · ·
50 00
Ophir Lodge, No. 33. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
Petaluma Lodge, No. 180. . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
50 00
Callayomi Lodge, No. 282... . ..... . ....................... 100 00
·Delano Lodge, No. 309 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · 250 00
Inyo Lodge, No. 221. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · ·...
25 00
Confidence Lodge, No. 203_. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
2 5 00
Alturas Lodge, No. 248. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •.. 100 00
Lassen Lodge, No. 149 .....................• ·.............. -51 00
Mendocino Lodge, No. 179. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
25 00
Maripos~ Lodg11, No. 24 . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·. ·.
50 00
Emmanuel Lodge, No; 318 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·: · · ·
?5 -00
North Star Lodge, No. 91. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · ·
20 oo
Georgetown Lodge, No. 25 .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
50 00
Eureka Lodge, No. 16 .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
60 oq
Woodland Lodge, No. 156 .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
5tl 00
Phoenix Lodge, No. 178 .. · · ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100 00
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · 100 00
Crescent Lodge, No. 45. ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · ·
50 00
Amador Lodge, No. 65. · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
50 00
Nevada Lodge, No. 13. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ··· · 100 00
Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8 .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
30 00
Texas Lodge, No. 46 ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100 00
George Washington Lodge, No. 62. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100 00
Martinez Lodge, No. 41 .. · · . · • · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · •
50 00
Newville Lodge, No. 205 .....•. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
75 00
Gold. Hill Lodge, No. 32 .. • · • · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 100 .00
Selma Lodge, No. 277. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
38 00
Forest Lodge, No ..66 ...•. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
31 00
Meridian Lodge, No. 182 ....... .• ... . ...... . . . ..... ·. . ..... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

385

FromAmount.
North East Lodge, No. 266........................... .• . . .
50 00
Keystone Lodge, No. 161. ............... :.................
20 00
)lvergreen Lodge, No. 259. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125 00
Harmony Lodge, No. 164........................... ... ....
25 00
Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18............... . .............
25 00
C]larity Lodge, No. 362.................................. .
25 00
Doric Chapter, No. 66, R. A. M., San Leandro...............
50 00
Hill's Ferry Lodge, No. 236.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116 75
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132 ($100, 0. E. S. Chapter, $50)...... 150 00
Hope Lodge, No. 234................. . ....................
56 00
Molino Lodge, No. 150 . ...................................
50 00
Vacaville Lodge, No. 134 .... . ......•. . .... .". .......... .. .. 100 00
Adin Lodge, No. 250......................................
25 00
Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129 .........•....... :................
25 00
Rio Vista Lodge, No. 208. . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . .
42 00
Clay Lodge, No. 101. . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .
50 00
Grafton Lodge, No. 141...................................
50 00
7426 75
Received of Geo. Johnson, Grand Secretary, F. & A. M ., above
amount of Seven Thousand Four Hundred Twenty-Six and 75/100
Dollars.
W. FRANK PIERCE,
President General Masonic Board of Relief.

Which was ordered to be printed with the Proceedings.
Bro. Edward Peabody presented the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Widows and Orphans Home.
Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Secretary, on behalf of the various Masonic
Boards of Relief of the jurisdiction, presented their annual
reports to the Grand Lodge, as follows :
SAN FRANCISCO.
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California, and the Officers and
Members of the Twenty-two Lodges of San Francisco, Parties
to the Compact:The undersigned beg leave to present their annual report of the
Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco for the year eommencing ·
on the first day of October, 1905, and ending on the thirtieth rlay
of September, 1906.

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The destruction by fire, however, of the books and records of the
Masonic Board of Relief, on the unfortunate days of April 18th and
19th, 1906, has made it im_Possible to render a more complete stiitement.
Since the date of our last report, the lodges of the city of Slln
Francisco have been represented in the Board of Relief by their
Masters or delegates.
The receipts for the year were as follows, viz:
From Assessment Upon the City Lodg011:
California, No. 1. ...... $284 70
Amount forward .. ... $1844 11
Parfaite Union, No. 17 ..
46 65 Mission, No. 169 ........ 373 99
Occidental, No. 22 ...... 243 05 So. San Francisco, No. 212 71 20
Golden Gate, No. 30 .... 194 6ll Doric, No. 16 ....... . ... 182 50
47 46
Mount Moriah, No. 44 ... 130 (15 Speranza Ital., No. 219 ..
Fidelity, No. 120 ........ 209 05 King Solomon's, No. 260 200 20
74 20
Hermann, No. 127 ......
79 45 Starr King, No. 344 .. . ..
54 44
Pacific, No. 136 ......... 228 60 Presidio, No. 354 .......
61 90
Crockett, No. 139: ...... 101 66 San Francisco, No. 360 ..
Oriental, No. 144 ....... 155 65 Amity, No. 370 .........
11 fl5
3 10
Excelsior, No. 166 ...... 170 65 Jewel, U. D .... . .......
1 35
Richmond, U. D ........
Forward ..........•.. $1844 11
Total receipts from city lodges ......•.................. $2926 10
From amounts received by sundry lodges and brethren .... ... 3149 50
From amounts dividends German S. & L. Society. . . • . . . . . . . 165 · 66
From amounts dividends Johnson 's Bequest Fund ..... . .... · 393 11
Donations from Meridian Sun Lodge, No. 158, Philadelphia, Pa.. 250 00
Surplus, last report ....... . , . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . 6548 45
Being a total of receipts from all sources of ..... . ...• . $13,432 82
The disbursements for the year were as follows:
For the relief of sick and needy brethren, their wives,
widows and orphans ... . .............. •...• ... ... ... . $6,476 14
Sundry unclassed ......... ·•................. • . ·:........
156 85

387

The following Brethren have been buried with Masonic honors,
under the direction of this Board:
1905.
Oct.
1.
Oct. 16.
Oct. 29.
Nov. 17.
Nov. 22.'
Dec. 6.
Dec. 15.

James Stanley Ewing, So. California, No. 278, Cal.
Chas. F. Anthony, Wm. B. Warren, No. 209, Ill
J. W. Schauft', Columbus, No. 30, Ohio.
Benjamin K. Thorn, Calaveras, No. 78, Cal.
John F. Millner, Keystone, No. 61, Cal.
Thomas H. Rablin, Pacific, No. 16, B. c.
Joseph S. Dallam, Yuba, No. 39, Cal.

1906.
Jan.
7. John C. Dunne, Le Progres de l 'Oceanie, No. 124, H. T.
Jan. 16. Archibald Gillespie, Friendship, No. 210, Cal.
Jan. 27. Louis Schiavi, Fruitvale, No. 336, Cal.
Feb. 14. Emery Cavin, Alta, No. 333, Cal.
Feb. 15. J. B. Kendall, Anchor, No. 443, Mo.
Feb. 18. Porter H. Andros, Charity, No. 43, Vt.
J'eb. 21. Henry Kershaw, North Star, No. 30, Canada.
Mar. 14. William F. T. Christian, Ionic, No. 121, Cal.
May 22. R. L. Lambert, King Solomon, No. 30, Colorado.
July 1. Bernard Myers, Orland, No. 265, Cal.
July 23. David S. Beer, Bethesda, Maine.
Aug. 7. John Vlaho, Esperanza Italiana, No. 219, Cal.
Aug. 11. Harry Stirling, Saint John's, No. 543, Scotland.
Sept. 5, Frank Justin Ducray, Mountain View, No. 194, Cal
Sept. 23. William Friede, Santa Lucia, No. 302, Cal.
Also, on February 22, 1906, Mrs. E=a V. Law11on, widow of late
Brother Lawson, of Carson Lodge, No. 1, Nevada.
Respectfully submitted,
F. L. HANSEN, Chairman.
J. B. REUBEN, Secretary,

LOS ANGELES.

Being a total disbursement for charities of ........... . $6,632 99
146 85
For support of employment office, salary and sundry expenses
Board of Relief, salary secretary, stenographer, rent, including purchase of furniture since the fire, etc .. .. ..... .. . 2,54r 50

TO THE MOST WORSHIPFUL GhAND LODGE, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS, OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA, AND
SUBORDINATE LODGES OF THE CITY OF LOS ANGELES,
CALIFORNIA.

Making the total expenditures for the year . . . . ... . . ... ... $9,321 34
Leaving a surplus September 30th, 1906, of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,111 48

Dear Sirs and Brethren:

$13,432 82

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles herewith
presents the following r eport of its labors from October 1, 1905, to
September 1, 1906:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

388

PROCEEDINGS OF TRE

. of the Board, as at present constituted, is:
The M emb er!!h ip
OFFICERS.

President .. : ................... Brother SAMUE~R~:~
Vice-President. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . :Brother JOHN WES FLINT
Brother MOTLEY HE
Treasurer .... · · · · · · · · · · · ·
UNSMOOR
SecretaIJ' ......... Brother Dr. JOHN MARCUS D
MEMBERSHIP.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 420scar Oeorgen William Burg,
Ashton Albert Wells,
Samuel Prager. .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202Charles Henry Brown,
Orville Devere Stone,
Herbert Hamilton.
Southern California Lodge, No. 27~
George Irwin Kyte,
Ernest Henry Greppin,
Dana Reid Weller.
East Gate Lodge, No. 290-:Ca tesby Charles Thom,
Motley Hewes Flint,
David Martin.
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319Leo Valtus Youngworth,
Joseph Augustus Smith,
Dr. John Marcus Dunsmoor.
South Gate Lodge, No. 320-John William Musselman,
John William Kemp,
Frederick William Dunn.
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329Leon Curtet,
Franz A. Bouelle,
Charles Deutsch.
west Gate Lodge, No. 335Ellsworth Francis Richards,
Henry Wash Louis,
Fellx -Iosep's ZeehandeJaar.

389

Palestine Lodge, No. 351Arthur James Wheeler,
Henry Debasco McCabe,
Edgar Eugene Selph.
Sunset Lodge, No. 352Sedgewick Ziba Osmun,
Samuel Edgerton Burke,
Charles Henry Bridges.
Golden State Lodge, No. 358Peter W. Gara,
George Walter Tedford,
John Hill Bean.
:Mizpah Lodge, No. U. D.. Charles E. Sebastian,
W.W. Richards,
M. R. Rafferty.
The work of this Board of Relief for the year 1906 has been increased by the unfortunate disaster which befell the City of San
)'rancisco on the 18th day of April; for which reason many unfortunate
6rethren, or their families, sought refuge in our own beautiful city,
and called upon us for aid. However, a word from this Board to ..
the several Lodges of our city, brought a ready, generous response,
and thereby we were enabled to relieve the suffering with little dillieulty; and we believe no worthy brother, or any member of his family,
has suftered for the necessaries of life.
To all who contributed to this Board of Relief for the benefit of
the San Francisco sufferers we extend our fraternal thanks.
MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.
Through the efforts of Most Worshipful Grand Master Motley H.
Flint, a Masonic Employment Bureau has been established, through
which several hundred positions have been secured for needy Masons,
their widows or orphans. This we deem · a most worthy charity,
nabling one to become self-supporting.
FUNERALS.
The following deceased Masons, or members of the Masonic family,
have been buried during the year by direction of this Board of
Belief, namely:
Name

Name of Lodge

Location

Date

Calvin Chancy Clark, Elsinore,. No. 289, Elsinore, Cal., Oct. 21.
,Arthur Alex Connell, Magnolia, No. 242, Santa Barbara, Cal., Oct. 28.
J>ercy Claine Smith, M. D., Cl.i.arlotte, No.-'-, Charlotte, Mich., Nov. 2.

39()

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name

Name of Lodge

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Location

Date

.Marcellus 0. Kirby, Golden City, No. 1, Golden, Colo., Nov. 5.
Albert W. Kinne, Colorado, No. 1, Denver, Colo., Nov. 11.
Richard E. Walker, Detroit, No. 2, Detroit, .Mich., Nov. 18.
Thomas P. Stuard, Philates, No. 527, Philadelphia, Pa., Dec. 1.
John Lawrence, Lebanon, No. 11, Steelville, Mo., Jan 3.
Hiram Valentine Cooper, La Fayette, No. 626, La Fayette, Tenn.,
Jan. 25.
·
Edward B. Bayfield, Cruz Austral, No. 5, Callao, Peru, Jan. 31.
William E. Hill., Independence, No: 87, Independence, Ia., Feb. 6.
James H. Trevorrow, Corinthian, No. 21; Rossland, B. C., Feb. 5.
Dr. R. Austin Orr, Blaney, No. 211, Chicago, Ill., Jan. 10.
Henry Dugan, Crystal Lake, No. 34, Lake City, Colo., Feb. 20.
Green B. Crowley, Visalia, No. 128, Visalia, Cal., March 2.
Lawrence T. Holland, M. D., South Gate, No. 320, Los Angeles, Cal.,
March 6.
John Henry Young, York, No. 410, Grand Rapids, Cal., March 15.
Amos Milton Beal, Tannehill, No. - , Dallas, Texas, March 18.
Samuel Aiken King, Mariposa, No. 24, Mariposa, Cal., May 1.,
Thomas J. Callaway, El Paso, No. 13, Colorado Springs, Colo., May 6.
Dr. D. Franklin Powell, Cody, Cody, Wyo., May 7.
Anson Serene De Yoe, King David, No. 209, San Francisco, Cal.,
May 10.
Alvan Dalton Porter, Needles, No. 326, Needles, Cal., May 25.
John T. Broad, King Solomon, No. 5, Tombstone, .Ariz., May 26.
Landon Bonham, Verde, No. 14, Jerome, Ariz., May 31.
Moses Magee, Chartierre, No. 297, Cannonsburg, Pa., June 10.
William Wallace Sheldon, Natoma, No. 64, Folsom, Cal., June 10.
John W. Goetz, Hesperia, No. 411, Chicago, Ill., June 13.
Thurman B. Macgregor, Western Star, No. 100, Clinton, Ia., June 17.
Edgar H. Neff, Fraternal Lodge, No. 139, Trenton, N. J., No. 17.
William B. Burt, Villa Grove, Villa Grove, Colo., June 20.
Samuel S. Watson, Ouray, No. 37, OUray, Colo., June 26.
William Berry Hurt, Garfield, No. 480, Garfield, Ark., July 18.
Mrs. Jean Marshall (daughter), Garfield, No. 480, Garfield, Ark.,
July 18.
Julee Ernest Jammes, Couers Unis, No. 45, Montreal, Can., Aug. 2.
William Oxnam, St. John's, No. 18, Delamar, Nev., Aug. 16.
DETAILED

STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS FROM
let, . 1905, TO SEPTEMBER let, 1906.

October, 1905.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .....•........
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal........

20 32
47 5!

OCTOBER

391

East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
23 60
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. , .............•
20 32
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
24 32
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
3 35
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ............... .
11 92
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ............... .
8 32 •
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ................ . .
6 80
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............. .
1 76
Grand Lodge of California
3,000 00
Tehachapi Lodge, No. 313, c~i:: : ::::::::::::::
20 00
Palo Alto Lodge, No. 346, Cal. ............... .
7 50
Jlinneapolis Lodge, No. 19, Minn ......... . ... .
1 50
Hesperia L!)dge, No. 411, Ill .............. . ... .
15 00
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, Cal. ................• 100 00
South Denver Lodge, No. 93 Colo
15 00
Greenville Lodge, No. 96 Mich .... '. · . · · · · · ·
35 00
. .hington-Centennial L;dge, N~." ~4:
·~::::: 15 00
Bladon Springs Lodge, No. 151, Ala ........... . 250 00
Harmony Lodge, No. 61 Colo
10 00
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio.::::::::~:::::::::
2 50
Maimonides Lodge, No. 143, N. y ............ .
25 00
Franklin Lodge, No. 447, N. Y . . ... . .......... .
45 00
St. John's Lodge, No. 11, D. C ............... . 140 00
Carson City Lodge, No. 332, Mich ............. .
5 00
$3,873 37

·-n:

November, 1905.
Los .Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ..... . ......... $ 21 28
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 Cal
41 12
fental~ha Lodge, No. 202: Cal::::::::::::::::: 40 96
Southern Califotl'tia, No. 278, Cal. ............ .
47 60
East Gate Lodge, No. 290 Cal
23 68
Boll~nbeck Lodge, No. 31g, cai:::::::::::::::: 20 32
South Gate Lodge, No. 320 Cal
24 32
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 3;9: . c~i::::::::::
3 35
West Gate Lodge, No. 335 Cal
18 16Palestine Lodge, No. 351, 'cal.:::::::::::::::::
8 56
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ................. .
Golden State Lodge, No. 35~, Cal. ........•....
8 00
L~valle Lodge, No. - , Wis . .. .. .. ........... .
36 25
V1truvius Lodge, No. 145, Cal. .............. .
8 00
Janesville Lodge, No. 55, Wis ................ .
40 00
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411 Ill
10 50
Suburban Lodge, No. 74~ K; ................ .
5 00
King Solomon Lodge, No.' 260. c~i
100 00
Golden Rule Lodge, No. 170, N. y. : : : : : : : : : : : : :
58 25

............ .

392

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amity Lodge, No: 483, Ind ................... .
Daggett Lodge, No. 492, Mo· ................. .
Elsinore Lodge, No. 289, Cal. ..•..............
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio .•..•.............
Birmingham Lodge, No. 56, Iowa .............•
Capitol Lodge, No. 3, Neb .................... .
Detroit Lodge, No. 2, Mich ......•.............

5 00
14 95
36 00
2 50.
2 50
5 00
15 00
$ 596 30

December, 1905.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ...........•... $
. Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .............. .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Gal. ..... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
.Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ............. .
Valee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ......... .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal.: ............. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. (Nov-Dec.) ....... .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Commonwealth Lodge, No. - , Mass ... ~ ...... .
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal. ..•................
Idaho Springs, Lodge, No. 26, Colo ............ .
Somerset Lodge, No. 34, Conn .........•......•
Abell Lodge, No. 146, Cal. ................... .
Hudson (Nova Scotia) Lodge, No. 77, N. S .... .
Virginia City Lodge, No. 1, Mont ......•.......
Cleveland City Lodge, No. 15, Ohio ........... .
Marion-Dunn Lodge, No. 19, Fla ...•...........
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .................. .
Auburn Park Lodge, No. 789, Ill .............. .

21 60
41 04
47 68
24 00
21 75
24 40
3 35
18 72
8 64
13 76
8 16
10 00
25 00
10 00
30 00
7 50
15 00
50 00
35 00
25 00
Ii 00
36 25

$ 491 85

Error August ................................ $
Interest, January, 1905, to January, 1906 ...... .

1 00
56 05

$

January, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ......•..•......
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal." ..... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
I;£ollenbeck Lod!t1', No. 319, Cal. ............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ............. :.
'Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ............... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .

21 60
41 20
47 44
24 00
21 75
25 60
3 45
18 88
8 64

57 00

Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Corning Lodge, No. - , Iowa ................. .
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .................. .
Blaney Lodge, No. 271, Ill ................. ; .. .
Charlotte Lodge, No. - , Mich ................ .
Colorado Lodge, No. 1, Colo .................. .
(By L.A. Commandery, K. T., No. 99, Cal.
Magnolia Lodge, No. 242, Cal. ................ .
Nassau Lodge, No. 536, N. Y ................. .
Blaney Lodge, No. 271, Ill .................... .
Blaney Lodge, No. 271, Ill .................... .
Washington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C .... .
Lebanon Lodge, No. 77, Mo .................. .
Clayton Lodge, No. 147, Ill. •..................
Macedonia Lodge, No. 258, N. Y ......•........
Acacia (Canada) Lodge, No. 61, Can ........... ·
Somerset Lodge, No. 34, Conn ................ .
San Francisco Lodge, No. 360, Cal. ........... .

393

6 96
8 40
17 50
10 50
10 00
15 00
15 00
15 00
7 50
300 00
23 45
15 00
15 00
15 00
54 55
25 00
4 00
40 00

$ 810 42

February, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Car................ $ 21 76
41 36
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .
47 46
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .
24 16
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
22 55
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
25 84
3 45
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ......... .
19 12
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .............. .
8 80
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ............... .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
7 04
8 64
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
10 00
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
Corinthian (Canada) Lodge, No. 27, B. C ..... . 365 00
36 25
Doric (Canada) Lodge, No. 382, Can ......... .
Hiram Chapter, R .. A. M., No. 2, Can ......... .
10 00
Washington Lodge, No. 33, N. J .............. .
25 00
34 45
Crystal Lake Lodge, No. 34, Colo ............. .
Cripple Creek, R. A. M., No. 33, Colo .......... .
25 00
7 50
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal .............. .
. 36 25
Charlotte Lodge, No. - , Mich: .............. .

$ 779 63

March, 1906.
Los Angele.s LoQ.ge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $ 21 84
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal................ · 41 52
l6

•

394

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ... : ..
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ............. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
West Gate Lodge, No.' 335, Cal. ............... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. .............. ;.
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
G~lden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .......... .' ..
Cruz Astral (Peru} Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
Toronto (Canada) Lodge, No: - , Can ......... ·.
Independence Lodge, No. 87, Iowa ........... .
Fort Worth Lodge, No. 148, Texas ........... .
Earl's Court (England Lodge, No. 2765, Eng .. .
Earl's Court (England) Lodge, No. 2765, Eng .. .
Nassau Lodge, No. 536, N. Y ................ .
Orange Lodge, No. 14, 8. C.................. .
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill. .................. .
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio .................. .
Hesperia Ladge, No. 411, Ill. ................. .

47 68
24 64
23 00
26 48
3 35
19 3~
8 88
7 12
8 72
5 00
26 25
15 00
25 00
35 00
5 00
30 00
20 00
10 00
1 00
15 00

April,, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ...........•... $ 21 84
41 44
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .............. .
47 92.
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ..... .
25 12
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. .............. .
23 60
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ......•.........
27 04
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
3 35
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ........ .
19 92
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal.· .............•.
9 12
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .
7 28
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal: .................. .
9 44
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
1 00
Venus Lodge, No. 152, Ohio ............. : .... .
15 00
Tannehill Lodge, No. - 1 Texas ............... .
12 50
Crystal Lake Lodge, No. 34, Colo ............. .
15 00
Washington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C ... .
5 00
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
41 40
Pine Lodge, No. 82, Fla .............•........
North Bend Lodge, No. 119, Neb .... .' ........ .
50 00
77 50
Niagara Lodge, No. 375, N. Y ......... '. ....... .
7 50
Ashlar Lodge, No. 306, Cal. ; ........ : ........ .
.15 00
La Fayette Lodge, No .. 626, Tenn ............. .
10 00
Crystal Lake Lodge, No. 34, Colo ............. .
41 75
Irvine Lodge, No. 137, Ky ................... .

St. John Lodge; No. 11, D. C .................•
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. .....••.•
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Wm. Jenkins, Bigelow Lodge, No. 243, Ohio ... .
c. D. Ginaca ................................. .
J. H. Miller, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .... .
A. C. A. Kuester, Ashlar Lodge, No. 308, Ill •...
D. W. Campbeil, Union Lodge, No. 7, Colo ..... .
Mrs. Brandish, Cal. ..................•..•.....
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .............. .
West' Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .............. .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .................. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ............... .
s. G. Dunham, Linwood Lodge, No. 567, Ohio ... .
J. A. Thomas, St. Bernard Lodge, No. 222, Kan ..
R. H. Rabisar, 'Tyrian Lodge, No. 553, Ark .....

$ 419 84

60 00
50 00
123 00
5 00
2 50
5 00
5 00
5 00
5 00
275 00
250 00
100 00
125 00
5 00
5 00
5 00

May, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $ 22 32
41 36
Pentalpha Lodge,. No. 202, Cal. ............... .
48 16
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .
25 12
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
23 60
Hollenbeck Lodge, No.· 319, Cal. ...........•...
27 28
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
3 35
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ... :., .. .
20 16
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ............... .
9 44=
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ................ .
7 36
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ..... : ............ .
9 84
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
7 50
Schiller Lodge, No. 335, IlL.. ', ............... .
Thomas J. Turner Lodge, No. 409, Ill. ........ .
10 .oo
Marion-Dunn Lodge, No. 19, Fla ....· .....•....
20 00
Ivanhoe Lodge, No. 443, Pa ......•........•... Hl~ 75
7 50
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166, Cal. ................•
42 75
Louisville Lodge, No. 400, Ky ................ .
Virginia City Lodge, No. 1, Mont ............. .
60 00
Leavenworth Lodge, No.-, Ind ...•...........
62 65
19 25
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30, Cal. .....•.........
19 00
Davenpo·rt Lodge, No. - , Ia .................•
48 50
Harmonia Lodge, No. 138, Fla ................•
Klamath Lodge, No. 77, Ore ..•...............
10 00
15 00
Cody Lodge, No. - , Wyo .................... .
5 00
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 51 S. A ........ .
23 55
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, Cal. ............. ·...•
·John McKay Lodge, No. - , Cal. .............•
10 00

395

•

$1,553 22

396

GRAND LODGE o~ CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

King Solomon Lodge, No. 260, Cal. ... ... ...... .
Solomon Lodge, No. 20, Fla ................... .
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill .................. .
Crewe Lodge, No. 123, Va ............ . ....... .
Las Animas Lodge, No. 28, Colo .......... . ... .
Bernard-Healy, East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal..
H. S. AI\en, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . ... .
A Friend, Cal. ... .. ................. ... ...... .
J. Houser, Cal. .............................. .
Pentalflha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal ....... .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............ . .. .
Mt. Zion Lodge, No. 311 (Troy), N. Y ........ .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .
Leo V. Youngworth, Cal. ..................... .

60 00
5 00
19 25
45 00
66 05
5 00
5 00
1 00
5 00
200 00
600 00
100 00
341 00
314 00
105 00
50 00
7 00

June, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. .. . . . ... . . ..... $
P entalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ...... . .. . . . .. .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. .... . . .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. . . ... ... ....... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No .. 329, Cal. .. ...... .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .............. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal.' ..... . .. .. . . .... .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .. ....... .. . .... . . .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .... .... ..... .
El Paso Lodge, No. 13, Colo ............ ... .... .
C?venant Lodge, No. 526, Ill. ............. . .. .
Thomas J. Turner Lodge, No. 409, Ill .. . ....... .
Franklin Lodge, No. 447, N. Y ....... . ...... . .'
Port .Tarvis Lodge, No. 328, N. Y ..... .. .... : ..
Pomona Lodge, No. 246, Cal. ................. .
Verde Lodge, No. 14, Ariz .............. ... .. . .
Port Jarvis Lodge, No. 328, N, Y ... ..... ...... .
Klamath Lodge, No. 77, Ore ........ ..... ..... .
Bastrop ·Lodge, No.-, La .................... .
Chartiers Lodge, No. 297, Pa . ........ . ....... .
King Solomon Lodge, No. 5, Ariz .... ..... . .. . .
Putnam Lodge, No. - , Mass ........ .. . ....... .
Fraternal Lodge, No. 139, N. J ........ . .. . .... .
Enterprise Lodge, No. 249, N. J ... .... ; ...... .

22 40
41 20
48 16
25 28
25 M
27 52
3 70
20 48
9 52
7 44
9 84
50 00
75 00
46 25
53 25
50 00
7 50
15 00
10 00
33 50
61 50
50 00
80 00
52 25
26 ·oo
63 00

$2,635 74

..

397

Putnam Lodge, No. - , Mass ................. .
Needles Lodge, No. 326, Cal.................... .
Mankato Lodge, No. 12, Minn ................ .
Neptune Lodge, No. 442, Scotland ............. .
Washington Lodge, No. 21, N. Y .............•.
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ............... .

52 25
15 00
15 00
10 00
52 25
310 00
166 00

$1,540 29

July, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal ...... ... ....... .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ..... . .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ............... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .... .. ........ .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .......... . : .. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. .....•....
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ... : ... . ...... .
Palestine Lodge, No; 351, Cal. ................. .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .......... .. ...... .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............ .
Searcy Lodge, No. 49, Ark ............ . ....... .
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal. ......... .. ...... ..
Verde Lodge, No. 14, Ariz ................... ..
Villa Grove Lodge, No. 32, Colo .............. .
Ouray Lodge, No. 37, Colo ...... .. ........... .
Eleusis Lodge, No.-, Mass ...........•.......
Bodley Lodge, No. 1, Ill .................... .. .
Washington-Centennial Lodge, No. 14, D. C .... .
Crewe Lodge, No. 123, Va ............. . ...... .
McCandless Lodge, No. 390, Pa ..... ... ...•....
Fraternal Lodge, No. 139, N. J ................ .
Cruz Astral (Peru) Lodge, No. 5, S. A ........ .
Warrant No. 431 cancelled ................... .

22 88
40 80
48 40
25 92
25 00
27 52
3 70
20 96
9 68
7 60
10 16
7 50
25 00
5 00
25 00
65 00
5 00
15 00
15 00
45 00
20 00
88 50
10 00
10·00

$ 578 62

August, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge,. No. 42, Cal. ............... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal . ....... ... ..... .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. ....... : ....... .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .............. .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .............. .
Vallee de France Lodge, No_. 329, Cal. ......... .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. .. .. . .......... .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal .... .. ........... .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal .. .... ... ........... .

23 04
40 88
48 56
25 92
27 15
27 84
3 70
21 36
9 76
7 76

•

398

Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .... ..... .... .
Mizpah Lodge, U. D., Cal . ...... ... ........ . .. .
Silver State Lodge, No. 95, Colo ............... .
San Jacinto Lodge, No. 338, Cal. ...... . .. ... .. .
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 245, Ohio ............. .
Special Bush Estate account .......... . .. .. . . . .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ............. .
Putnam Lodge, No.-, Mass .......... . .. ..... .
McCandless Lodge, No. 390, Pa ......... .. .... .

10 16
1 04
33 00
25 00
36 25
220 00
15 00
52 25
50 00

Add error February, 1906 .. . . .... _. ............. .

$ 678 67
$

10

DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEM!lNTS
CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.
0

•

Jurisdiction.
Iowa
•Ireland
Italy .....................
Japan •.•······
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Manila
Maryland ........ . .....
Massachusetts
Mexico
Michigan
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
North Carolina
North Dakota
•Norway
Nova Scotia
Ohio
Oklahoma
Oregon
Palestine (Holy Land)
Pennsylvania
Peru
• Philippine Islands
Prince Edward.'s Island .. .
Prussia
Rhode Island
Russia· Poland
Scotlal'.ld
South Carolina
South Dakota
Sweden
Switzerland
Tennessee

..... ..... ... .... ..
.......... ... ....

$ 678 77

Jurisdiction.
Paid.
Africa ................ . $
5 00
Alabama .............. .
270 80
Arizona ....... .. ...... .
107 50
Arkansas .............. .
100 95
Australia .............. .
104 25
Austria .. .... ... .. . ·.. . . .
31 00
Bermuda Island ... . .... .
20 00
Brazil . . ............... .
10 00
California ............. .
1,247 95
Canada .... . . .. ..... .. .
714 59
Chili .................. .
10 00
China ............. .. .. .
6 50
Colorado ........... .. . .
408 55
Connecticut . . . .. . . .. . . .
85 00
Delaware .............. .
22 50
Denmark . ... .. ...... .. .
27 50
Englan<\., ............... .
60 00
Florida .' ............... .
184 90
France ................ .
30 00
Georgia '· .............. .
23 50
Germany ............. . .
92 35
Holland' ............... .
17 00
Honolulu, ..... .. .. ... .. .
47 50
Idaho . . ............... ,
10 00
Illinois ............... .
$1,055 40
Indiana ............ . .. . .
92 65
Indian Territory ....... .
22 50

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCE~INGS OF THE

Received.
$....... .
250 00
100 00
22 50

576 70
462 50

376 00
34 00

40 00 .
. 139 90 .

..... .. ...
..... . ···········
··············
.... ···········
...... .. ...... ....
.. ···············
..........
.................
..............
··· ········ ··
...
.. ······ .....
....... ·········
. ........ ······
. .. ... ...... ...
•lo

••••••••••••••

.........
.......... ..
.. ...........
..............
..........
..... ......
.. .. ... .... .... .
............
........ ............
... ...........
...... ..... .....
..
.... .......
.... ...............
. ......
.. ..... ..... ...
...........
........ ..
...............
.... ......
..... ... ...
.................
.... ........ .
..... ····· ····
~

....· .....
638 70
67 65

Paid.
204 00
35 00
22 50
22 00
237 65
143 00
105 00.
39 00
30 00
15 00
244 25
24 ·so
186 15
67 50
17 00
333 95
144 50
66 50
29 00
50 50
227 50
20 00
693 61
22 50
18 50
32 50
17 20
219 55
25 00
llO 50
15 00
423 75
49 00
20 00
19 90
5 00
35 00
20 00
137 50
32 00
16 50
11 50
15 00
94 35

Received.
54 00

.........

.... ·····
.........
5 00
89 50
67 50

. ........
...... ...
.... .....
171 75
.........
106 25
22 50

.........

29 95
110 00
55 00

..... ... .

·· -~ot.5o
... .... ..

463 30

.... .....
.........

.........

15 00
88 25

....... ..

43 50

... ......

2?8 75
35 00

.... .....
·········
.........
... ... .....
..... ....
10 00
20 00

.... .....
.. ··.·····
.........
15 00

400

PROCEEDIN<;iS OF THE

401

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Jurisdiction.
Texas
·······
·····
Turkey ................ .
Utah
Vermo~·t· ...... ...... · · · ·

······

········ ·······

Virginia ..... ...... .. .. .
Wales
W ashin~~~~. : : : : : : : : : : : : :
Washington, D: C....... :
West Virginia ......... .
Wisconsin .
. ······· ··· ..
Wyoming . ... .... ..... . .

Paid.
55 00
28 12
32 50
37 50
113 80
20 00
30 00
275 00
15 00
79 75
27 50

Totals .......... : .... $ 9, 810 72

Received.
40 00

90 00

260 00

$3,174 50

$3,17~

50

........ .
76 25

$5,006 95

RECAPITULATION.

Note--The Grand Master, M. H. Flint, has since returned the
$1,434.76 to this . Board of Relief, the same to be kept as a Speeial
Disaster Fund.
.
All which is respectfully submitted.
SAM 'L PRAGER, President.
Attest: J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.
To the Most Worshipful Motley Hewes Flint,
Grand Master of Masons, State of Califomia:-

Receipts.
Grand Lodge of California
.
·
Los Angeles City Lodges .................... $ !,O~O 00
Sister Jurisdiction
· · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · eJ,5ll6 40
Special Disaster F:~d · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 5,006 95
Special Bush Estate A~~~~~~················· 3,174 50
Interest, Etc.
············ ·····
220 00
.............. · · · ·' · · · · · · · · · · ·
57 15 $14,015 OQ

Disbursements.' .
'Paid Overdraft
Employment Bu;e·~~ ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .$
Expense Account
..... · · · · · · · · · ' · · · · · · · · ·

SPECIAL DISASTER FUND.
There was paid into the treasury of this Board
of Relief, on account of the disaster of
April 18th, 1906, the sum of ...... .... .. .
And the same is accounted for as follows:
Relieving distress in various amounts ......... · $1,739 74
To M. H. Flint, Grand Master, to balance
account
1,434 76

394 80
250 00
957 21

Classified by Juri~di~~i~~~· ·i~~l~dl~g·· · · · · · ·
.
~73~~
Spec1al
Disaster Fund '
9,810 72
M.
Flint, Grand Mas~~~; . b~i~~~;. s~~c·i~i
Disaster Fund
Special Bush Est~t~ ·A~~~~~~·················· 1,434 76
220 00
Unclassified
·········· ·······
. . ····· ..... . .. . .........
. ... .
234 83 $13,302 32

1:·

Grand Total received in 11 mo· nth
S. • • • • • • • • • .$14 015 00
Grand total paid out in 11 months
'
. .. .. .. ..... 13,302 32
Balance on hand September 1st, 1906 . .. ...... .. .... . .. .. ... $712 68

Dear Sir and B.rotherComplying with your request of August 16th, 1906, concerning the
action which .this Board of Relief took in matter of the disaster occasioned by earthquake and fire, which befell the central portion of our
glorious State, on the 18th day of April, 1906, will say:
That immediately upon the realization of that awful calamity,
a special meeting of the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angllles was
called, on April 22d, 1906, at which meeting I was ·directed to communicate with each Masonic body of this city, and request a contribu·
tion of One Dollar ($1.00) per capita, to enable our Board to relieve
the cli~tress of tb,e members of t he craft and those dependent upon
them, who might take refuge in our city. This request was promptly
complied 'with, and there came into my hands as Secretary, from the
various MasQnic bodies of our city, together with individual contributions; and also from Mount .Zion Lodge, of Troy, N . Y., the sum
of Three Thousand One Hundred and Seventy-Four Dollars and .Fifty
Cents ($3,174.50).
Arrangements were made that · the Masonic Board of Relief should
establish headquarters at the Masonic Temple, and notices were placed
in all the newspapers of the city, calling attention to that fact.. We
secured the use of the banquet room and kitchen for t he purpose of
providing meals; also the Lodge Room. recently vacated by the Scottish Rite Bodies, was filled with cots and bedding for use of the
ladies.
We. secured the upper floor of the Lexington Hotel (now the
Brooklyn Hotel) for the use of the gentlemen.

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE

A cook was hired, an.d with the assistance of the Ladies of the
Eastern Star, meals were provided at the Masonic Temple; committees were appointed, who met all trains coming from the North, and
brought the members of the fraternity to the Temple, and after a
bath, a good meal, and a rest, positions were 11ecured, as best they
could be, for employment.
Those. of the unfortunates who were in feeble health, were sent
to ~he Southern California Masonic ·Home at San Gabriel, at our expense, and when they were recovered, they sought employment.
Quite a number of the refugees being aged, and ha.v ing relatives
in other citie's, were furnished with transportation as they desired.
·
It is estimated that at least One Thousand (1000) Meals were furnished at our expense.
FINANCIAL STATEMENT.°
RECEIPTS.
Los Angeles Lodges.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 . ................ . .... $275.00
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ....................... 516.00
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 ......... . .... 600. 00
East Gate Lodge, No. 290 .... . ................. ·.. 314.00
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319 .. . . ..... . ........ . .... 310.00
South Gate Lodge, No. 320 .. .. .. ................. 341.00
ValllJ de France Lodge, No. 329.. . ..... . ..... . ... 50.00
West Gate Lodge, No. 335 . . ...... .. ....... .. .... 250.00
Pales.t ine Lodge, No. 351. .. . ... . . . ....... . ... . .. 125.00
Sunset Lodge, NQ. 352. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . 100. 00
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, .. . ...•.............. 123.00
Mt. Zion Logge, No. 311, Troy, N. Y .............. 105.00
Wm. Jenkins, Bigelow Lodge, No. 243, Columbus, 0.
5. 00
C. .D. Ginaoa, (friend) ......... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. 50
A. C. A. Knuster, Ashlar Lodge, No. 308, Chicago
5.00
J. H . Miller, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Los Angeles
5.00
Cal. ......... . ......................•...
5.00
D. W. Campbell, Union Lodge, No. 7, Denver, Col. .
5.00
.S. C. Dunham, Linwood Lodge, No. 667, Cincinnati.
J. A. Thomas, St. Bernard Lodge, No. 222, Dodge
5.00
City, Kan. . .•.. .. .. ..•............. . ........
R. H. Robisar, Tyrian Lodge, No. 553, Wilmart,
5.00
Ark..... . .. . ... . ... .. ..... . .............. .
Bernard Healy, East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Los Angeles, Cal. .. . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .
5. 00
H. S. Allen, Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Los Aµgeles,
5.00
Cal....... · . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(A friend), name not given . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1.00

o; CALIFORNIA.

Cash returned by Members of Committee-Leo V. Y oungworth ........... , . , ...... $7 . 00
J. Hauser . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . !5. 00
Mrs. Bradish . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 . 00 17 . 00

403

:!;3,171 'iO

Disbursements.
Paid Out, forFood Stuffs ... . ... . ...... . ...... . ... . ... " .... $ 165 . 41
Labor ........ . .... ~ ................•.. ~. ... . .
51.00
Merchandise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . · 25. 25
Printing and Stationery. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
71. 42
IJ'elegraphing . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28.26
Southern California Masonic Home. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28. 00
!J'ransportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215. 75
Cash to Masons and families .. . .. . ... . .... . .... 1,154.65
Balance to M. H. Flint, G. M ................... 1,434.76 $3,li+.50
All of which is respectfully submitted,
SAM 'L PRAGER, Chairman.
Attest:
J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.
Note.-Since. the foregoing report was made, the Grand Master,
Brother M. H. Flint, has returned to this Board of Relief, the $1,43t.76,
. ·a nd the same has been entered in · a special fund, to be used to relieve
additional distress caused by the late disaster.
OAKLAND.
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:T~e Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland, herewith reKpectfull.v
presents its Annual Report, from Octobe:r:: 5th, 1905, to October 3rd,
1906, inclusive.
·

Until January, 1906, the Board's membership is shown in our re.1>ort
for 1905. From January 1, 1906, the following brethren have <'Om·
posed the Board:-

-

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, by
Wager Swayne Smith, Master.
Abraham Powell Leach, S. W.
Alton Cass' Jackson, J. ·W.
Oakland Lodge, No. 188, by
Robert Brainard Gaylord, Master.
Charles Edwin Keyes, S. W.
James Henry MacLafferty, J. W.

•

404

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

f $220 25 reported as refunded by Lodges in California,
The sum O
.
was received as follows:!'flendship Lodge, No. 210, San Jose . ..... . ..... ... .. . ..... . $ 80 00
Yuba Lodge, Marysville . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15 25
75 00
· Lodge No 372, Honolulu.. ...... .................
()eean1c
'
·
Oroville Lodge, No. 103, Oroville..... ........ ..............
50 00

Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225, by
.John -A rthur Petty, Master.
Herbert Pasha Briggs, S. W.
Walter .Joseph Peterson, .J. W.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244, by
William Gardiner Davison, Master.
William .John Lawry, S. W.
.John Crossman, .J. W.
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349, by
Charles Husband, Master.
.James Cairns Cole, S. W.
.John Ryle MacGregory, .J. W.
The present officers have been elected to serve until the first
Wednesday in .January, 1907, and they are: .J. Arthur Petty, Chairman; Abraham ·p, Leach, Treasurer; J. J. Warner Secretary.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from O,ctober 4, 1905,
to October 3rd, 1906, inclusive, are as follows:
RECEIPTS.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. ........ .. ............... $426 00
Oakland Lodge, No. 188 ............... .. ........ 270 15
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 ......... .... .. .. ........ 139 -20
Alcatraz Lodge; No. 244 ......................... 226 25
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349 .......................... 142 05 $1,203 65
Interest on money deposited in bank..............
66 24
Refunded by Lodges in California.. ... .... .......
220 25
Refunded by Lodges in other Jurisdictions........
441 90
Refunded by individuals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
137 70
Donated by Brother K. M. Kjelsberg ...... , . . . . . . .
100 O~

Add balance in treasury October 5, 1905 ........ .
Total available funds during the ye;ir ......... .

405

$2,169 74
1,977 76
4,147 50

DISBURSEMENTS.
For the relief of needy and sick brethren and burial ......... $1,009 15
For the relief of needy and sick widows and orphans. . . . . . . . 658 20
Expense for Secretary, statienery, postage, telegraphing, etc . 144 95
Care of burial plot two years.............................
40 00
Total disbursements .................................. $1,852 30
Balance in Treasury, October 4, 1906 ..•... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,295 · 20
$4,147 50

$ 220 25
The sum of $441 90 reported as refunded by Lodges of other Jurisdictions was received as follows::•
.
Garden City Lodge, No. 141, Ch~cago .._. ................... $ 173 15
Capital City Lodge, No. 312, Indianapohs, Ind...............
48 00
Germania Lodge, New Orleans, La.... .. ...................
50 00
Pleiades· Lodge, No. -178, Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125 00
Washington Lodge, No. 240, Buffalo, N. Y. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
45 75
$ 441 90
The sum of $1,667 35 rep?r.t ed as disbursed for charity to brethren,
their widows and orphans, was distributed as follows:18 cases from California ......... .... ..... $ 778 25
3 cases f.rom Australia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
29 00
1 case from Connecticut . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 00
4 cases from Illinois. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 205 15
50 00
2 cases from Indiana. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
1 case from Louisiana. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 case from Kentucky....................
23 70
1 case from Michigan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 00
62 50
2 cases from Maine. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
1 case from Minnesota .; . .. . .. .. . . .. ... ..
IO 00
1 case from Montana. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
42 70.
7 !lases from New York .. .... .. ........ .. 302 05
10 00
1 case from P ennsylvania ... ............. .
10 00
1 case from Quebec ..... .. ........ ... ... .
1 case unidentified ....... ....... . . ..... .
2 00
1 case from Washington .. . ,. ............ .
25 00
$1,667 35
During the year covered by this report the following named
brethren were buried with Masonic Honors, under the auspices of this
fjoard:1905.
Dec. 3 William N. Smith, Garden City Lodge, No. 141, Chicago, Ill.
1906.
Feb. 24 Charles H. Moore, Oroville Lodge, No. 103, Oroville, Cal.
March 5 Leonard F. E. Jarvis, Tuolumne Lodge, No; 8, Sonora, Cal.
March 6 William Leslie Cottrell, Oceanic Lodge, No. 322, H onolulu.

406

407

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1906.
.
April 15 Thomas W. Hambly, San Jose Lodge, No. 10, San Jose, Cal.
May 19 Marcus B. Ivory, Brentwood Lodge, No. 345, Brentwood, Cal.
June 24 J. Fessenden Clark, Occidental Lodge, No. 22 San Francisco
July 9 William Henry Drennon, Petaluma Lodge,
180, Petaluma:
Aug. 5 George Upjohn, .Mt. Royal Lodge, No. 32, Montreal, Canada.
Sept. 18 J. W. Baggett, Holland Lodge, Houston, Texas.
Sept. 27 Ic~abo.d 0. Ross, Morning Star Lodge, No. 68, Stockton; Cal.
.
All of which is respectfully submitted,
J. ARTHUR PETTY, Chairman.
J. J. WARNER, Secretary,

All which were referred to .the Committee on Finance.

No:

SACRAMENTO.

Besolved, That the Committee on Jurisprudence be and is hereby
99quested to prepare and present to this Grand Lodge a .regulation
exempting from the payment of all local and Grand Lodge dues and
l'lllessments, all Master Masons of this Jurisdiction after they shall
have reached the age of .seventy years, provided they shall have been
members in good standing and have paid dues to the local Lodge
pnting such exemption .f or fifteen consecutive years next preceding
the date thereof.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California.:The Sacramento Board of Relief respectfully offers the following
report of its transactions fron:i October 1st, 1905, to October 1st, 1906:
Cash on hand last report ....................... $ 255 13
Reooived from Tehama Lodge, No. I.......... i85 15
Received from Washington Lodge, No. 20...... 103 30
Received from Sacramento Lodge, No. 40...... 200 85
Received from Union Lodge, No. 58.. . ....... 192 75
Received from Concord Lodge, No. 117 . .......
89 10
Received from California Lodges, repayment...
48 50
Received from Foreign Lodges, repayment. . . . 522 60
$1,597 38
Disbursed.
For relief of Brethren, widows and orphans.
California ................ 5 cases:........... $ 301 00
Canada ................... 1 case . . . . . . . . . . . .
3 00.
Illinois .................. .4 case~............ 382 35
Indiana ...... :·............ 1 case • . • . . . . . . . . .
2 00
Iowa ..................... 1 case . . . • . . . . • • . .
2 25
Kansas ................... 1 case . . . • . . . . . . . .
4 00
Kentucky ................. 2 cases............
72 50
Maine ......... . .......... 1 case . . . . . • . . . . . .
5 00
Michigan ........ ·....... ; .1 case . . • . . . . . . . . .
20 oo
Missouri ......•........•.. 1 case • . . . . . . . . . . .
80 50
Nebraska •................ 1 ease . . . . . . . . . . . .
73 45
Scotland ................. 1 case . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 00
Expenses
63 45

B~o. Everett H. Welch presented the following:

Bro. Amos G. Bellis presented the following:
Whereas, Our Worshipful Brother, Herman G. Squier, Past Master
of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, F. & A. M., Manila, P. I., was requested
and delegated to .represent "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, at the Fiftyeixth Annual Communication of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California~ ·
held in San Francisco, California, during the month of October, 1905,
and
Whereas, "Manila Lodge, No. 342, at its Stated C~mmunication,
held on August 1; 1905, voted that the sum of one hundred and
!twenty-five dollars be allowed its representative to the Fifty-sixth
Annual Communication of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California, as
part reimbursement of his traveling expenses incurred in performing
his duties as such representative; and .
Whereas, Representatives of Lodges under the jurisdiction of the
M. W. Grand Lodge of California, located outside of the limits of
the State of California, are not allowed any traveling expenses by the
Grand Lodge as such Representative; and .

$1,011 50

Balance, cash on hand ..•........••........... . ...... $ 585 88
Fraternally submitted,
F. A. ROBLIN, Secretary.

Whereas, There are two Masonic Lodges situated in the Philippine
Islands, under the jurisdiction. of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California,
which Lodges hold, as it were, a unique position in American Masonic
history, being the advance of American Freemasonry on territory
under the exclusive control of the United States of America, in the
far orient, and it is fit and proper that a Representative ac<\uainted
with the conditions existing in these islands s.h ould be present at the
Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge; therefore, be it
Besolved, That·"Manila" Lodge, No. 342, petition the M. W. Grand
Lodge of California to refund to it, the amount of one hundred and

.

408

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI~.

twenty-five dollars, which was allowed to its Representative at the
Fifty-sixth Annual Communication, from the annual dues of "Manila"
Lodge, in view of the great amount of charitable work that is done
by ''Manila'' Lodge for sojourning Masons 'from all parts of the
. wor.ld; and also that the additional sum of one hundred and twentyfive dollars, which was allowed as part reimbursement of the traveling
expenses that may be incurred by our Representative to the Fiftyseventh Annu·a1 Com~unication of the M. W. Grand Lodge of California, to be holden in San Francisco, Calif., in October, 1906, be refunded from its annual dues to the Grand Lodge, making in all two
hundred and fifty dollars; and

The Directors of the Hall Association after receiving the consent
f more than .two-thirds of the stockholders entered into a contract
~th Rudolph Spreckels, selling to him the lot on the northwest corner
of Montgomery and Post streets, San Francisco, for the sum of seven
hundred and fifty ~housand dollars net, ~ixty days being allowed to
search the title.
The purchaser is now examining the title and this sale will be conlllmmated. in a very short time.

Be it further Resolved, That this resolution be presented ·to the
M. W. Grand Lodge of California, at its Fifty-seventh Annual Communication, by our Representative.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Oration was made the special order for two
o'c.Iock, Thursday afternoon, to be immediately followed
by memorial services in memory of Past Grand Masters
Johnston ~nd Rucker.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until two o'clock
this afternoon. ·

3Ju ~rnuh 14nhgr.
Afternoon Session,
l
Wednesday, October 10th, A. L. 5906. I
The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The M. :. W. :. Charles L. Patton pre.sented the following:
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned, on behalf ·of the· Masonic Hall Association of the
City of San Francisco, and in order that the matter of the sale of the
Temple site may be fully un~erstood by the Granil. Lodge, submits
the following for consideration:

. 409

Upon receipt of this money it is the intention of the Hall Association to obtain an order of Court permitting the distribution of all the
funds on hand among the stockholders and, for the reason that there
is no power in · the Hall Association to acquire a new site under its
Articles of Incorporation, the Directors propose to proceed to disintp0rporate.
The Directors have, however, been advised that nearly all the Masonic Bodies owning stock in this corporation desire to invest all or
nearly all the amount to be received ·from the sale of the Temple site
to build a new Temple on a new site to be selected, are about to
formulate a plan whereby a new hall association shall be incorporated
with a capital stock equal in amount to the price received from the
sale of the Temple 'a nd div1ded into. twenty-five thousand shares oi the
par value of thirty dollars each, so that each stockholder in the
present Hall Association may either receive tlie amount due him on
cUasolution in cash or may receive an equal number of shares of equal
value in the new hall association in lieu of ~hares in the old association.
The fact that the purchase price of the Old Temple site ,has not
yet been paid makes it impossible to furnish the Grand Lodge at this
time with a more detailed statement of the plans for the ereetion of
a new Temple.
As the decision of this Grand Lodge in reference to investing the
funds received from the sale of the Temple site in a new and modern
Temple for the use of the Craft, will have great weight in accomplishing this most desirable purpose it is suggested that a committee
be appointed at this seBBion of the Grand Lodge with power to act for
the Grand Lodge in all matters connected with the consummation of
the sale of the Temple site and with the erection of a new Temule in
Ban Francisco.
•

The consideration . of which was postponed until the
special committee on the
address of the Graru:I. Master. ·

-~sentation of the report of the

17

•

410

411

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The M. :. W. :. Albert G. Brice, Past Grand· Master of
Louisiana, was introduced and conducted to a seat in the
Grand East.

prements have been co.mplied with, and recommend that the same
be accepted.
le•peetfully submitted,
ELLSWORTH F. RICHARDS,
WILLIAM R . FLINT,
JOHN C. LANE,
Committee.

Bro. Ellsworth F . Richards, Chairman of the Committee
on Charters, presented the following report:

Which was concurred in and the recommendations
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:

~dopted.

Your committee begs leave to submit the following report:

Bro. Henry M. Owens, Chairman of the Committee on
Accounts, presented the following:

Dispensations have been granted to the following Lodges:
Gardena;
Veteran;
Jewel;
Richmond;
Francis Drake;
Artesia;
Mizpah;
Fillmore ;
Huntington· Beach;
Oceanside;

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to audit the bills of this Grand Lodge, beg leave
to submit the following nport:

All of these Lodges have sought charters. We have made a close
examination of the records and papers accompanying the petitions,
and recommend that charters be granted as follows:
Gardena;
Veteran;
Jewel;
Richmond;
Francis Drake;
Artesia;
Mizpah;
Fillmore;
Huntington Beach;
Oceanside.

Respectfully submitted,
H . M. OWENS,
THEODORE . FROLICH,
HARRY ASCROFT,
WALTER A. SCOTT,
·
Committ ee.

Which was concurred in.
r

Concerning the matter of the surrender of Charter of "Ionic"
Lodge, No. 121, F . & A. M., Iowa Hill, California, left over from the
last Anniial Communication:We have carefully considered the papers connected with the sur·
render of Charter of said Lodge, and find that all constitutional re-

•

Your Committee have met on the last Saturday of· each month
during the past Masonic year; when all bills and vouchers for expen·
ditures of money outside of the regular appropriations by this Grand
Lodge have been acted upon by this Committee. Aut hority for the
f:Xpenditure and C(/pies of articles purchased have been presented to
the Committee in every and all cases. No bills have been approved
until they have passed the scrutiny of the m~j ority of this Committee.

The M. :. W. :. M. H. Flint presented the following:
Hon. Motley H. Flint,
M. w. Grand Master, F. & A. M. of California.

•

Dear Sir:The Accountants appointed to examine thll books of the General
Masonic Relief Bureau of San Francisco beg leave to report thai we
have made a complete and thorough audit of the Secretary's accounts.
We find that a proper record has been kept of all receipts and dis·

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

bursements, that all receipts were found to have been regularly
deposited with the Treasurer and drawn by.proper warrants, that all
disbursement items, whether for expense or for relief purposes, are
supported by vouchers on file and readily accessible, and w e hereby
certify to the correctness of the financial statement presented by the
Secretary of the Board under ·date of October 6, 1906, an amplified
copy of which we present herewith.

Statement of Receipts and Disbursements General Masonic Relief
Board from April 25 to October 6, 1906, inclusive.

Contributions ......... .
General contributions .................. $ 74,718 48
M. W. Grand. Master, Hon. Motley H.
Flint . . . . . . . ........... . ......... , . 100,000 00
DISBURSEMENTS.

$87,437 60
General expense .............. .
Telegrams ................... $ 1,437 75
Advertising . . . . . . . ......... . 1,340 50
Rent (store-room for supplies).
150 00
Postage .................... .
57 75
Lumber ....... , .............. .
114 05
Printing ......... . .......... .
42 25
Freight .................... ..
40 05
Typewriter reht, ribbons ...... .
26 50
Traveling expenses .......... .
88 00
Miscellaneous . : . . . . . ..•......
73 70
Incidental expense, contingent. 1,726 05
$ 5,096 60

•

Salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
$ 3,640 75
Vice-President ............... $ 1,150 00
Secretary .... .". . ..... , . • . . . . 1,000 00
Bookkeepers . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . .
775 00
Stenographer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
372 50
Clerks, messengers, etc. . . . . . . .. .
343 25
$ • 3,640 75
prayage, expressage, etc ........ .
Stationery . . . . . . . ..... · ... · · · ·
Furniture and fixtures ............ .

$ 1,338 00
119 85
230 98

97,863 78

Balance, resources ....... • : ...... .. .. ·............. $ 76,854 70

RECEIP~S.

Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Cash ........................ $30,181 43
Supplies, food, clothing etc . ... 46,770 78
Transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,858 65
Mission District account. . . . . . .
936 40
_Burials . . . . . . . ..... : ... ·. . . . .
501 64
Hospital services ............ .
108 70
Loans, balance ............ ... .
80 00

413

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

$87,437 60

$174,718 48

COMPOSITION OF BALANCE.
Cash in hands of Treasurer ............ ·............... . . $ 75,223 20 ·
Cash in -hands of Secretary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,631 50
Total ........ . ................................. ".$ 76,854 70
Respectfu1l1Y submitted,
J. R. RUCKSTELL,
THOS. T. ATKINSON,
Committee.

Which was referred .to the special committee on the
report of the General Masonic Relief Fund.
Bro. William P. Butcher presented the following:

$ 5,096 60

Resolved, That regulation No. 57 be and the same is hereby
amended by striking out the word "five," and substituting in lieu
thereof the word "twenty-five."

Which was referred to the Cof!lmittee on Jurisprudence.
The M. :. W. :. George W. Hunter, from the special committee o~ the Grand Master's Address and Grand Secretary's· Report, presented the following reports:
To the M. W. Grand Lodge of California:Your committee to whom was referred the address of the M. W.
Grand Master, Motley H. Flint, beg leave to submit the following:
It has been the fortune of Grand Master Flint to serve tliis Grand
Jurisdiction in the most eventful year of its history, and in a capacity
which, for taxing one's powers and resources, has never before fallen

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to the lot of r,.ny Grand Master of this or a:uy other Gran<l Jurisdiction.
The awful calamity which befell the City of San Francisco i;_ April
last was so sudden and appalling that thousands of it~ inhabitants
were not only deprived of their homes; but of the actu'al r.ecessaries
oI life. It required a man · of great executive ability to take charge
of the relief work and organize committees to perform the service
demanded, and Grand Master Flint, by reason of his business experi•
ence, was specially qualified to grasp the situation and render the most
efficient service".
·
We commend his untiring zeal and personal efforts in aiding the
needy, and . heartily approve of his action in helping, not only the
members of the Masonic fraternity and their families, but all wl;io
were in distress in those trying hours.
'•
The generous response of other Grand Jurisdictions, in contributing
so liberally, for, the relief of ·San Francisco and other stricken cities
in our State, shows how universal was the sympathy of our Masonic
brethren and how tru·e and loyal the fraternal spirit when a great
occasion calls it into activity. The funds donated were gratefully
received, worth-ily bestowed and faithfully accounted for, and the
report of the Grand Master on the relief fund, and the record of relief
work as shown by his special report, is a tribute to Masonry throughout the world.
We note with pleasure the gain in membership during the year, and
the satisfactory condition of Masonry in general in this Jurisdiction.
. We recommend that so much of the address of the Grand Master
as deals with decisions be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence;
that portion which relates to the amendment of the constitution in
regard to granting Dispensations for the formation of new Lodges
upon the recommendation of the Grand .Master where the nearest.
Lodge declines to give its consent, be referred to the same committee;
that portion which relates to Masonic Temple matters in San Francisco be referred to a spec.i al committee for consideration and ·report;
that portion relating to a Dispensation for a new Lodge in the PhilippineA ·be referred to a special eommittee, and that portion relating
to printing a list of members of Lodges be submitted to the Grand
Lodge for its consideration and deeision.
Grand Secretary, Bro. Johnson, has been able, notwithstanding the
great loss sustained by him in the destruet1im of thP, records of his
offiee, to present to this Grand Lodge a full account of all transaetions
of his office for the year requiring eonsideration by this Grand Body.
That portion of his report realting to unfinished business has
.already been referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

415

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Although brief, the report is eomplete and bears evidence of the
of all the work of the Grand Seeretary 's office.
accur acy
.
·
Respectfully and Fraternally submitted,
EDMUND C. ATKINSON,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
GEO. W. HUNTER,
Committee.

•

Both which were adopted.
On motion it was ordered that the publication of the
Roster of Lodg_es, which was discontinued at the Annual
11£bmmunication in 1905, be resumed, and that the same be
rblished as soon as possible after the receipt by ~he Grand
Secretary from subordinate Lodges of the certificates of
election and appointment of officers for the year. It was
also ordered that the publication of the bi-monthly circular
of suspensions, restorations, etc., which was discontinued at
the Annual Communication in 1891, be resumed and same
published as formerly.
On motion it was ordered that · a committee of seven be
p.ppointed to consider the proposition of building a ~emple,
said committee to consist of five residents of the city and
two residents of the country, and the Grand Master appointed the follo"\Ving brethren to constitute such committee:
REUBEN H. LLOYD,
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
EDWARD COLEMAN,
CHARLES SCHLESSINGER,
CHARLES M. PLUM,
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES,
ORRIN S. HENDERSON,
On the New Temple.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clo1:k
to-morrow morning.

416

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3Ju ~rauh iljnhgr.

The accused was the Treasurer of "Monterey" Lodge, and was
oharged with the embezzlement of $176.74 of the funds of the Lodge,
set forth in six specifications. Among other matters the specifications
related offensive and defiant actions on the part of the accused when
roqueste.d to make payment of these funds, even after a successor had
been appointed and demand made:

Morning Session,
Thursday, October 11th, A. L. 5906.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
·
·
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
Bro. John Hosmer, Chairman of the Committee on Gri~"v­
ances presented the following reports:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee have had under consideration and have carefully examined the following records of trials had in subordinate ·
Lodges, from which no appeals have b.een taken, and find them all
to be in substantial compliance with our law, and the respective
judgments are sustained by evidence, to wit:
William Silv'e r Grover, expelled by "California" Lodge, No. 1.
Harvey Irwin, an· Entered Apprentice Mason, expelled by '' Acacia'' Lodge, No. 92.
William Clawson, expelled by "Chico" Lodge, No. 111.
Benjamin Beatty Duncan, expelled by "Mission" Lodge, No. 169.
Alexander Isaac Gray, expelled by· "Elk Grove" Lodge, No. 173.
Charles W. Koerner, expelled by "Marin" Lddge, No. i91.
.John Duncan Cummings, expelled by "Dunsmuir" Lodge, No. 297.
.Tames Francis Beahan, expelled by "Manila" Lodge, No. 342,
and Emil .Tulius Kanngeisser, expelled by "Presidio" Lodge, No. 354.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

•

417

Upon the trial before the Commissioners, through his counsel,
the accused himself being present, he pleaded guilty to the charges,
and such was the finding of the Commission. In sentencing the
accused to reprimand th'e Commission evidently took into consideration a promise to repay the money in six months, or sooner if possible.
If a · Brother so far forgets his Masonic duty as to appropriate
money of the Lodge, entrusted to him as an official, he should be
ltlbjected to. such discipline as shall, at least, convince the Lodge
that he is penitent for his act, and worthy to mingle with his Masonic
Brethren. While a reprimand may work reform fot small offenses,
the good faith of the Brother will ·be better shown if he is deprived,
for a season, of Masonic rights, and' displays to his Brethren· a bearing th~t will justify them in again receiving him into full fellowship.

Your Committee is not B'atisfied that the sentence is sufficient
or adequate punishment for the offense of w:hich the Brother has
acknowledged himself guilty. Such conduct warrants the severest ·
~nishment1 known to our law, but 'as the tri~l Co=issioners h~ve
shown such great .leniency, and there may be circumstances of which
we are ~ot cognizant, which may be urged in mitigation, we are disposed to recommend a milder judgment.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
·e.doption:
Resolved, That the action of the Trial Commissioners of ''Monterey" Lodge, No. 217, sentencing A. A. Manuel to a reprimand, be,
and the same is, hereby reversed, and that the said A. A. Manuel be,
and he is, hereby suspended from all the rights and privileges of
:Masonry.

Resolved, That the action of tlie several Lodges upon the cases
herein particularly specified be, and the same is, hereby affirmed.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of the
case of A. A. Manuel, sentenced to reprimand by "Monterey" Lodge,
~o. 217, and from which judgment the accuser, George W. Mease, has
appealed, have had the same under consideration, and report as
follows:

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the case
of Robert Emil Goeritz, expelled by "Chico" Lodge, No. 111, have,
had the same · under cohsideration, and beg leave to report.
The accused was charged with unmasonic ·conduct in four specifications, but evidence was introduced to the Commission only as to
one, which was that during the month of April or May, 1905, the said
Goeritz came to me (the accused) and said he was in trouble. and

418

419

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

asked me as a Mason to assist him by letting him have some cattle
to tide him over his difficulties, and that in a few days he would pay
me for them without fail. I (the accuser) gave him the assistance
he desired, and he took my cattle and disposed of them,. and took the
money and left the State, and I have no doubt but it was his intention at the time he secured the cattle to rob me of my property.

would not accept of it. If there was dishonesty in procuring the cattle the evidence does not show it. At most, _it shows that in his business he estimated beyond his ability.

At the time that charges were preferred the accused was in Butte,
Montana, and wrote to the Ma~ter, asking an extension of the time
of trial for at least sixty days, which was granted, and at the expiration of that time the trial proceeded and the accused was present.
In his statement to the. Commission he said: "Everybody knows the
way I started in business, and as soon as I made a few dollars, I spent
it in improving my business with :fixtures, etc., and :finally I got married and my expenses were higher and business was pretty good, and
I improved my business, and in one way I made a mistake. I risked
too much, and I thought business was getting better, and it got
worse, prices declined, competition was harder, and I could not meet
my bills; consequently, my family expenses were awfully high, it was
impossible for me to cut them down, which I can prove by my books.
Through this came my family trouble, and I made a mistake by
starting in drinking, and for this I ask forgiveness from my brothers.
I tried to beat nobody out of a cent; that is why I came back and
took charge of the market, where I take only my living expenses,
and I will pay everybody dollar for dollar.''
Upon the trial the only evidence offered was by the accuser, who
testified ''all the charges preferred by me were on the hearsay of
Brothers, except the :first charge, relating to cattle.'.'
The accuser was apparently not even ha.If-hearted in his prosecution, for when asked, ''Where did you get the other information
preferred in charges 7'' answered, from Brother J. D. March; and
when further asked, ''Why did you not get the witnesses here to
prove thaU" answered, ('Because I did not care to." He also stated
that he received a letter from Brother Goeritz offering to square the
first charge, relating to the cattle, but that he wrote him an answer
that he would not do se, as it was too late, and he was advised by
Masonic authority that he could not do so.
The transaction disclosed by the charge gave the accused the
privilege of using the cattle, and in the absence of fra~d, 'such use
would not subject him to censure. The only thing looking towards
fraud is that he went away, but before the compietion of the trial
he returned and went to work, and was only taking his living expenses,
and would pay everybody dollar for dollar. According to the prosecutor he had offered to square his indebtedness, but the prosecutor

The charge of fraud, a serious offense, especially when committed
by a Mason against a Brother, should be fully and clearly substantiated by the testimony. Anderson's Manual, Sec. 203, page 250.
by the testimony. Anderson's Manual, Sec. 203, page 250.
We are not satisfied that the evidence in this case is sufficient to .
justify the finding of the Commissioners.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of "Chico" Lodge, No. 111, expelling
Bol:/ert Emil Goeritz be, and· the same is, hereby reversed and set
aside.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of the
case of Charles F. Mugridge, expelled by "Naval" Lodge, No. 87,
and from which judgment the accused has appealed to this Grand
Lodge, has had the same under consideration, and report:
The charges preferred against the accused are that on divers occasions he violateCI. the chastity of Katherine C. Macdonald, the wife
of Angus E. Macdonald,_ the accusing Brother.
The appeal is upon the ground that the evidence is insufficient
to support the finding of guilty of the charges, and that error was
committed in allowing in evidence over the objection of the accused,
of an ex parte affidavit of Katherine C. Macdonald.
The accused denied the charges. The evidence of the accuser
was wholly hearsay, aside from. the affidavit of Katherine C. Macdonald which was admitted in evidence over-the objection of the accused, th;t it was incompetent, irregular. and not taken in accordance with
Masonic law. This document was offered as a deposition, but it is
wholly in narrative form, reciting the acts charged in the complaint
of the accuser, but not bl question and answer, nor does it .appear th~t
the accused had· an opp.ortunity to appear and cross-examine the W1tness. The only reference to the matter in the transcript is: "The Secretary was instructed to notify the Master of 'Sacramento' Lodge, No.,
40, F. & A. M., to accompany a Notary Public for the purpose of
taking the testimony of wife of Angus E. Macdonald, Katherine
C. Macdonald: Accused was also noti:fied in person.'' But it ~owhere
appears that notification of the time and place of taking the deposition was given. The only apparent whereabouts of the wife is indi-

. 420

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

cated. in a letter from Macdonalcl to the Master of "Naval" L d ·
speakmg of her condition, written from Broderick Yolo Count o T~e,
~lleged deposition was attested by William F. Re~fro, NotaryyPubli:
m ~nd for the County of Sacramento, and the record shows it was
received from H. H. Stephen~on, .w.:. M.:. of ".Sacramento!' Lod e
No. 40.. We do not think ~his a·substantial complia_n ce with our la~'
as provided by the Constitution (Part VI Art IV Sec 5) ''*"l '
test'
f ·
'
·
'
·
, · T 1e
. imony o witnesses who are not Masons shall be taken by de osi
hons ~efore ~ome .o~cer authorized by the laws of the State wh!ei~
he_ resid~s to adIDlnister oaths, and at such time and place and u on
such notice to.the. adverse party .as shall be designated by the Mas~er
up~n the apphcahon of the party desiring the testimony.''
'

n.;~ the duty of the Master, if he deem the application for a
eposi ion. ~u:fficient, "to make an order authorizing the takin of
t~e deposition. before some officer authorized to administer o:ths
a ter such notice. to the adverse party as may be prescribed b th:
order, and at ~ time and place therein designated. The applic~tion
order and notice cannot be dispensed with '' (A d
' M '
Sec. 686, Sub. 8, page 345.)
,
n erson s
~nual,
d

W~ therefore offer the following · resolution and
adoption:
.
recommend its
Resolved, That the action of "Naval" Lodge No 87
11'
Charles F Mag · d b
d th
'
·
' expe mg
"
· ,, n ge e, an
e same is, hereby rever8ed, and returned
to Na:val Lodge, No. 87, for a new trial.

Your Committee, to whom was referred' the · trial record in th
case of Frank Ridgway Todd, expelled by "Hartley" Lodge No 199e
beg leave to report as follows:
'
·
'
This is the second time that this case has come before· the Grand
Lodge. T~e action of "Hartley" Lodge was reversed by the Grand
Lodge at its annual session of 1904, on account of the char e bein
supported by hearsa,y evidence.
g
g
The new trial was had ·under the. charges preferred by ~he J ·
Warden, under direction of the Master in 1904. And while it u:;~:
not appear from the transcript, it is a, fact shown by the records
of the Grand Lo,dge, that the officers at the trial were different
sons from those who officiated in 1904.
perThe accused was charged with having committed embezzlement in
Santa Ana, Orange County, and having pleaded guilty to the char e
The whereabouts of the accused was unknown, -and the trial 'proceed~d
ex pa.rte. The cha.rge was sustained by the evidence.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

421

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommimd· its
4C1option:
Besolved, That the action of "Hartley" Lodge, No. 199, in expelling Frank Ridgway, Todd be, and the same is, hereby affirmed.

Your Committee, to whom was ~eferred the trial record in the
case of Hugh Kirkman, a member Qf "Lawton" Lodge, No. 75,
located at Lawton, Territory of Oklahoma, tlien residing at Fort
j[cKinley, Rizal, Philippine Islands, expelled by ''Manila'' Lodge,
No. 342, have had the same under consideration; and beg leave to
18port as follows:
The a.ccused, an officer in the United ·s tates Army, was charged
by a member of said "Lawton" Lodge with having .e mbezzled $772.23
of moneys that he had in his possession as such officer.
.

.

The Trial Commissioners were elected March· 31st, 1906, and the
Master named April 5th, 1906, as the time for the first meeting of
the Commissioners, and ordered the Secretary to prepare a summons
to •ccused, which summons was served upon the accused April 1st,
1906. The accused was at the time under arrest by the United States
military authorities, and General Wood refused . to allow him to
appear before the. Commission. This fact was made known to the
llio=is11ion and on motion it adjourned until April 10th, 1906, authorizing a brother to take the deposition of the accused, and to notify
him of his right to be :r:epresented at the trial, ood· also to give him
tufficient time ' to prepare for his defense. Upon April 10th the Commission again met, and •the accused's deposition not being received,
another adjournment was had, until April 14th, 1906, at which · time
no objection was . made to the Commissioners, and the accused filed
an answer, which was witnessed by the accuser and a Brother Lawrence -8. Carson, of "Minrehohn" Lodge, No, 5, of Sioux Falls, South
Dakota, who represented the accused upon the trial. In the answer
the accused admitted the charge, and upon the trial there was evidence
of other witnesses, that justified the action of the Commissioners.
These proceeding11 were not in compliance with our l~w, and if
the 'accused had not 'ppeared by answering and being represented;
the sentence of the Lodge could not stand. Our law is very plain.
(Const., Part VI, Art. IV, Sec. 3.) "If the accused be within the
jurisdiction of the Lodge, the summons and a copy of the charges
shall be issued at least ten. days prior to the day appointed for the
trial, and shall be served personally. by the Tyler, or some other member of the Lodge, authorized by the Master for that purpose, or shall

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be left at his ordinary residence or place of business,'' and we can.
not too seriously commend to our Brethren having trials, that they
closely re.a d and pursue the practice laid out for them in the law
thereby avoiding the 'necessity of reversal.
·
· '
Your Committee, however, are of the opinion that inasmuch as
the accused Brother appe·ared by answer and representative and made
no objection to the character of the service of summo~s, that he
waived any informality that might exist in such service and as
the evidence before the Commission justifies the sentence, 'we offer .
the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resol.ved, Th~t the action ~f "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, expelling
Hugh Kirkman from all the nghts and privileges of Masonry be and
the same is, hereby affirmed.
'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

423

.Bro. William P. Jeffries, Chairman of the Committee on
lleturns, presented the following report :
'fo the M.:. w.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your . Committee, to whom was referred the examination of the
turns of the Lodges for the current year, with the assistance of the
re
· report'mg
Grand Secretary, performed that duty, and take pleasure m
that the returns of all the Lodges have been received by that officer;
that a very large ma~ority of them were prepared correctly; that those
which were in the first instance erroneous, have since ~een corrected
by the Secretaries, upon notice thereof (in some cases more than
once repeated) by the Grand Secretary; that the dues have, in nearly
every instance, accompanied the reports; and that all the dues. have
now been paid.

·

The classification which follows will show the respective credits
due to th~ Secretaries of the several Lodges:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the
case of William Dean, sentenced to reprimand by ''Palo Alto'' Lodge,
No. 346, and from which an appeal has been taken to this Grand
Lodge, has had the same under consideration, and report:
The Brother was charged with unmasonic conduct in using vile
p~ofan~ and indecent language towards a Brother, and in cb,argin~
him with dishonesty and making threats of violence towards ·h im.
The affair was evidently an outcome of business difficulties. The
accused Brother appeared, confessed the charge and expressed sorrow
for his acts, and showed a penitential disposition. The Brethren of
the Commission were, no doubt, impressed with his statement, for they
all concurred in the adoption of reprimand as a punishment, and
we cannot say, in view of the :facts, that a more serious penalty ~as
necessary.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of "Palo Alto" Lodge, No. 346, sentencing William Dean to be reprimanded be, and the same is, herel)y
·affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
JNO. A. HOSMER,
J. A. ·MURPHY,
ALBERT NORRIS,
E. E. SILPH,
Committee.

All which were concurred in and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.

The reports of the following three hundred and eight ·Lodges were
transmitted within the period of time prescribed by the Constitution;
were accompanied by dues; were in all respects correct; and were hi:-nd·.
eomely prepared:
No.

California,
Tehama,
Benicia,
Tuolumne,
Corinthian,
San Jose,
Yount,
Temple,
Eureka,
Mountain Shade,
San Joaquin,
Washington,
Hawaiian,
Occidental,
Madison,
Georgetown,
Trinity,
Gold Hill,
Ophir,
San Diego,
St. John's,
Santa Cruz,
Yuba,

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"
«

...

1
3
5
8
9
10
12
14
16
18
19
20
21
22
23
25
27
32
33
35
37
38
39

No.
Martinez,
Los angeles,
"
Hiram,
"
Mount Moriah,
"
Crescent,
"
Texas,
"
Forbes town,
"
Illin\listown,
"
Suisun,
"
Santa Rosa,
"
Union,
"
Live Oak,
"
George Washington, "
Natoma,
"
Amador,
"
Forest,
"
Enterprise,
"
Bear Mountain,
"
Calaveras,
"
Humboldt,
"
Ione,
"
Yolo,
Rising Star,
"

41
42
43
44
45
46
50
51
55
57
58
61
62
64
65
66
70
76
78
79
80
81
83

424
Vesper,
Quitman,
Rqse's Bar,
North Star,
Acacia,
St. Helena,
Henry Clay,
Howard,
Jefferson,
Hornitos,
La Grange,
Manzanita,
Oroville,
Lexington,
Owen,
Chico,
Summit,
Eden,
Cori cord,
Clinton,
Fidelity,
Ionic, .
Sotoyume,
Table Mountain,
La Fayette,
Hermann,
Visalia,
Nicolaus,
W ooduridge,
Sincerity,
Yosemite,
Vacaville,
Valley,
Pacific,
Crockett,
Franklin, .
Oriental,
Vitruvius,
Abell,
Eel River,
Molino,
Woodland,
Gibsonville,
Keystone,
Harmony,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
'"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

84
88
89
91
92
93
95
96
~7

98
99.
102
103 .
104
108

111
ll2
113
117
119
120
121
123
124
126
127
128

129
131
132
133
134
135
136

139
143
114
145
146

147
150
156
158
161

164

No. 166
Excelsior,
Alameda,
"
167
Redwood City,
'' 168
Mission,
" 169
Drytown,
" 174
Phoenix,
" 178
Mendocino,
" 179
Petaluma,
" 180
Russian River,
" 181
Meri<liaii,
" 182
Clear Lake,
" 183
Siura Valley,
" 184
Claiborne,
" 185
Evening Star,
" 186
·Keith,
" 187
Oakland,
" 188
Marin,
" 191
Santa Barba~a,
" 192
Mountain V:iew,
" 194
Wilmington,
" 198
Hartley,
" 19!)
Truckee,
" 200
Silveyville,
" 2Jl
Pentalpha,
" 202
Confidence,
" 203
" . 204
Salinas,
Rio Vista,
" 208
King David 's,
" 209
Friendship,
" 210
San Benito,
" 211
South San Francisco, '' 212
San ~uena Ventura, " 214
Oak Grove,
" 215
Doric,
" 216
Monterey,
" 217
Mosaic,
" 218
Speranza Italiima,
" 219 .
Downey, .
" 220
Granite,
" 222
Bakersfield,
" 224
Brooklyn,
" 225
San Mateo,
" 226
Solano,
" 229
North Butte,
" 230
Janesville,
" 232

425

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Hill's Ferry,
Guadalupe,
Colusa,
)lagnolia,
JBucalyptus,
Alcatraz,
Laurel,
Pomona,
Fresno,
Bodie,
J'.iandmark,
Welcome,.
Lodi,
i>enrhyn,
Evergreen,
King Solomon's;
Tuscan,
J.ompoc,
II
nu.•1 .
Orland,
North East,
Galt,
Olive :Branch,
Snow :Mountain,
l1aaadena,
~chor,

>-r.royo,
Oakdale,
Southern California,
Jlanford,
l[a.dera,
Mt. Shasta,
~layomi,

South .W est,
San Miguel,
Paso Robles,
!IPnnedumah,
•axwell,
J:lainore,
East Gate,
Banta Paula,
Los Gatos,
Orange Grove,
'l'raver,
Mt. .Jackson,
18

No. 236
"
237
,, 240
"
''
''
,,

242
243
244
245

''
"
,,
,,
,,
,,

246
247
252
253
255
256

"
,,

.258
259

''
''
,,
,,
,,

260
261
262
264
265

''
''
''
''
''
,,

266
267
269
271
272
273

"
''
''
,,

274
275.
278
279

''
''
''
''
,,
,,

280
281
282
283
285
286

"
,,

287
288

''
''
,,
,,

289
290
291
292

''
''
''

293
294
295

Silver Gate,
Dunsmuir,
Mokelumne Hill,
Liberty,
Redlands,
Santa Lucia,
Porterville,
Reedley,
Azusa,
Santa Monica,
Monrovia,
Delano,
Sisson,
L9s Banos,
Tehachapi,
Temescal,
Norwalk,
Sanger,
Emanuel,
Hollenbeck,
South Gate,
Alisal,
Alhambra,
Whittier,
Corona,
Needles,
Long Beach,
Vallee de France,
Pacific Grove,
San Pedro,
Alta,
West Gate,
Fruitvale,
Carquinez,
Fullerton,
Santa Maria,
Oxnard,
Manila,
San Fernando,
Bren twoo<l,
Palo Alto,
San Bernardino,
Sequoia,
Cavite,
Palestine,

No. 296
297
"
"
298
,, 299
''
''
''
,,

300
302
303
304

''
"
''
,,

305
307
308
309

"
"
"
"
,,

310
312
313
314
315

"
,,
,,
,,
,,
,,

316
318
319
320
321
322

''
,,

323
324

''
''
,,
,,
,,

326
327
329
331
332

''
''
,,

333
335
336

"
,,

337
339

"
''
''
,,

340
341
342
343

''
"
''
,,
,,

345
346
348
349
350

"

351

426

GR.AND LODGE OF 0.ALIFORNI.A.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Sunset,
Pinole,
Presidio,
Hollywood,
Mill Valley,
Buena Park,
Golden State,
San Francisco,
Fort Bragg,
Charity,
Berkeley,
Olivet,
Willits,
Las Palmas,

No. 352
" 353
" 354
" 355
" 356
" 357
!'
358
" 360
" 361
" 362
" 363
" 364
" 365
" 366

South Pasadena,
Unity,
Amity,
Oceanic,
Gardena,
Veteran,
Jewel,
Richmond,
Francis Drake,
Artesia,
Mizpah,
Fillmore,
Huntington Beach,
Oceanside,

No. 367
" 368
" 370
,,
371
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.
U. D.

The reports of the following thirty-two Lodges were correct, anu
were accompanied by their dues, but were not transmitted within
the proper time:
Western Star,
La Parfaite Union
Palmyra,
Golden Gate,
Sacramento,
Volcano,
N~val,
Arcata,
Pajaro,
Mount Zion,
Grafton,
Lassen,
Elk Grove,
Antioch,
Northern Light,
Ferndale,

No.

2

17
26
30
40
56
87
106

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" no
" 114
" 141
" 149

173
175
190
193

"

"
"

"

San Simeon,
Stanit!laus,
Athens,
Covelo,
Calistoga,
Hope,
Santa Ana,
Alturas,
Adin,
'Reading,
Durant,
· Tyrian,
Fall brook,
. Consuelo,
Loyalton,
Ocean Park,

No. 196
'' 206
'' 228
,, 231

''
''

233
23-!

,,
,,
,,

248
250
254

''
,,
"
''
''
"

268
28-!
317
325
359
369

,,

241

The reports of the following seventeen were transmitted within
the proper time, and were accompanied by their dues, but each
required corrections, which were duly made by the Secretaries upon ,
being notified (sometimes more than once) by the Grand Secretary:
Nevada,
Marip.o sa,
Morning Star, ·
Alamo,
Newville,

No.

13

"

24
68
122

"

"
"

205

Anaheim,
Inyo,
Surprise Valley,
Selma,
Ontario,

No. 207
,, 221
''

,,
"

235

277
301

No. 306
'' 328
" 330
" 334

Ashlar,
:Redondo,
Kilauea,
Covina,

San Jacinto,
Starr King,
Mc~inley,

427
No. 338
,, 344
" · ;s47

The reports of the following five Lodges were accompanied by the
dues, but were not transmitted within the proper time, and required
eorrections, which have since been made:
No. 59
"
60
" IOI

Gravel Range,
Plumas,
Clay,
,

No.· 140
" 195

Cur till,
Buckeye,

The amounts for dues for whi~h the several Lodges of this .Jurisdiction were indebted, and which have all been paid, are as follows:
Gen. Fund.

Name and No.

c&liiurnia.

1. .$

Western fil:i.r.
Tehama,
Benicia,
Tuolumne.
(lorinthian,
!':ln.n Jose,
Yount,
Nevada,
Temple,
Eureka,
La Par. Union,
:Mountain Shade,
Ban Joaquin,
Washington,
,Hawaiian,

2..
3..
5..

~ecidental,

Madison,
llariposa,
j&eorgetown,
'Palmyra, .
Trinity,
Golden Gate,
Gold Hill,
Ophir,
Ban Diego,
St. John's,
Santa Cruz,
Yuba,

8..

9..
10 ..
12 ..

13 ..
14 ..
16 ..
17 ..
18 ..
19 ..
20 ..
21..
22 ..
23 ..

24 ..
25 ..
26 . .
27 ..
30 ..
32 ..

33 ..
35 ..
37 ..
38 ..
39 ..

Home Fund .

634 65 $
119 20
176 35
125 00
157 55 .
i35 35
308 25
l!ll 75
152 65
73 05
64 75
129 70
40 95
250 60
111 00
229 00
581 80
139 40
62 35
48 60
202 90
74 85
447 85
58 20
71 05
245 20
101 10
203 60
84 15

Total.

Allowed
Rep 'tvs

607 00 ·$ 1,241 · 65 $ . .. .. .. ..
20 OQ
116 00
235 20
6 60
173 00
349 35
225 00
2 00
100 00
13 20
149 00
306 55
9 2fl
113 00
248 35
275 00
583 25
2 51>
256 75
125 00
299 °65
14 60
147 00
59 00
132 05
2 00
65 00
129 75
8 20
126 00
255 70
41 00
81 95
30 00
458 60
208 00
5 00
100 00
211 00
6 60
264 00
493 00 ... ·
524 00
1,105 80
132 00
271 40
13 60
53 00
115 35
16 50
48 00
96 60
12 20
162 00
364 90
13 40
63 00
137 85
29 00
870 85 .
423 00
56 QO ·
7 80
114 20
59 00
130 05
15 00
236 00
481 20
45 00
98 00
199 10
30 60
168 00
371 60 .
5 60
. 161 15
9 20
77 00

...... .

428

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name and No .

Sacramento,
40 ..
:Martinez,
41 . .
Los Angeles,
42 . .
Hiram, ·
43 ..
Mount Moriah,
44 . .
Crescent,
45 ..
Texas,
46 ..
Forbes town,
50 ..
Illinoistown,
51 . .
Suisun,
55 ..
Volcano,
56 ..
Santa Rosa,
57 ..
Union,
58. ·.
Gravel Range,
59 ..
Plumas,
60 ..
Live Oak,
61 ..
Geo. Washington, 62 ..
Natoma,
64 ..
Amador,
65 ..
Foreat,
66 ..
Morning Star,
68 ..
Enterprise,
70 ..
Bear Mountain, 76 . .
Calaveras,
78 ..
Humboldt,
79 ..
Ione,
80 ..
Yolo,
81 ..
Rising Star,
83 ..
Vesper,
84 . .
Naval,
87 ..
Quitman,
88 ..
Rose's Bar,
89 ..
North Star,
91..
92.'.
Acacia;
93 ..
St. Relent,
95 ..
Henry Ulay,
96 ..
Howard,
97 ..
Jefferson,
98 ..
Hornitos,
99 ..
La Grange,
101 ..
Clay,
io2 . .
Manzanita,
103 ..
Oroville,
104 ..
Lexington,

Gen . Fund.

HomeFnnd.

.190 80
117 05
348 60
29 65
329 40
87 80
33 45
45 80
37 015
105 05
52 20
279 05
207 35
22 80
94 80
654 95
41 80
66 80
81 25
36 35
192 05
149 70
112 15
69 35
311 20
58 55
42 35
61 30
129 70
276 15
26 60
32 70
41 05
32 95
95 85
72 65
90 15
39 15
31 50
119 10
62 05
33 30
148 55
59 60

184 00
99 00
288 00
27 00
312 00
64 00
31 00
44 00
39 00
79 00
36 00
259 00
193 00
24 00
44 00
601 00
44 00
64 00
75 00
33 00
179 00
146 00
97 00
73 00
276 00
49 00
33 00
54 00
126 00
237 00
28 00
26 00
39 00
21 00
83 00
67 00
77 00
37 00
30 00
98 00
59 oo
34 00
129 00
48 00

Allowed

Tota.I.

374 80
216 05
636 60
56 65
641 40
151 80
64 45
89 80
76 05
184 05
88 20
538 05
400 35
46 80
138 80
1,255 9p
85 80
130 80
156 25
69 35
371 05
295 70
209 15
142 35
587 20
107 55
75 35
115 30
255 70
513 15
54 60
58 70
80 05
53 95
178 85
139 65
167 15
76 15
. 61 50
217 10
121 05
67 30
277 55
107 60

Rep'tvs

6 60
2 00
'35 00

57 30
5 70
. 17 20
10 10
3 40
.3 00
6 60

... ..... .
I

~

12 70
10 00
24 60
5 00
9 20
15 20
12 10
20 · 00
8 70
6 40
13' 10
15 00
2 00
18 60
.34 10
13 00
4 10
12 70
30 60
24 2.0 ·

13 50
9 20
11 30
16 50
12 20

35 80

Name and No.

Gen. Fund.

Arcata,
106 .. $
95 95
Owen,
108..
12 35
Pajara,
110 ..
114 20
Chico,
111..
186 20
Summit,
112 ..
33 45
Eden,
113 ..
. 99 00
Mount Zion,
1.14 ..
21 00
Concord,
117 ..
110 20
Clinton,
119 ..
40 35
Fidelity,
• 120 ..
464 90
Ionic,
• 121.·.
19 00
Ahimo,
122 ..
67
20
1
Sotoyome,
123. •
159 05
Table Mountain, 124 ..
55 50
La l!'ayette,
126 ..
105 40
Hermann,
127 ..
183 35
Visalia,
128 ..
143 55
Nicolaus,
129 ..
74 55
IJIVoodbridge,
131 ..
94 75
IJ,tincerity,
132 ..
48 25
!rosemite,
133 ..
28 00
raeaville,
134 ..
136 65
Valley ,
135 ..
46 70
Pacific,
136 ..
540 50
~ockett,
139 ..
331 30
Curtis,
140 ..
48 55
Qrafton,
141..
24 70
Pranklin,
143 ..
65 05
Oriental,
144 ..
370 25
lfitrnvius,
145 ..
51 50
Abell,
146 ..
105 75
Eel River,
147 ..
106 80
Lassen,
149 . .
94 45
llolino,
150 ..
48 65
l'loodland,
156 ..
151 55
pibsnnville,
158 ..
22 90
J[eystone,
161..
40 20
llarmony,
164 ..
16 30
ll!Jxcelsior,
166 ..
417 75
Alameda,
167 ..
99 10
Redwood City,
168 ..
98 20
M:ission,
169 ..
887 65
Elk Grove,
173 ..
62 95
:Drytown,
174 ..
17 10.

429
Allowed .

Home Fund .
Total.
$ . 101 00 $
196 95

Rep'tvs

$
20 90
13 00
25 35 ......... .
116 00
230 20 , ······.
156 OlJ .
342 20
11 80
31 00 .
64 45
.100 00
199 00
70
20 00
41 00
96 00
206 20
6 60
33 00
73 35
20 30
442 00
906 90
20 00
39 00
56 00
123 20
3 30
139 00
298 05
4 50
50 00
105 50
14 70
92 00
197 40
3 60
173 00
356 35
·······.···
129 00
272 55
17 30
69 00
143 55
8 40
85 00
179 75
6 20
35 00
83 25
36 00
20 00
48 00
14 50
107 00
243 65
4 60
46 00
92 70
490 00
1,030 ·50
314 00
645 30
' 49 00
97 55
6 00
26 00
50 70
5 80
59 00
124 05
4 00
. 335 00
705 25
50 00
101 50
3 80
105 00
210 75
9 00
104 00
210 80
22 50
91 00
185 45
39 00
47 00
95 65
12 20
129 00
280 55
6 20
22 00
44 90
. 25 00 •
36 00
76 20
14 00
30 30
405 00
822 75
98 00
197 10
1 70
96 00
194 20
1 60
807 00
1,694 65
61 00
123 95
7 20
18 00
35 10

..

430

PROCEEDINGS OF J;HB

No.meo.nd No.

Antioch,
Phoenix,
Mendocino,
Petaluma,
Russian River,
Meridian,
Clear Lake,
Sierra ·Valley,
Claiborne,
Evening Star,
Keith,
Oakland,
Northern Light,
Marin,
Santa Barbara,
Ferndale,
Mountain View,
Buckeye,
San Sim.eon,
Wilmington,
Hartley,
Truckee,
Silveyville,
Pentalpha,
Confidence;
Salinas,
Newville,
Stanislaus,
Anaheim,
Rio Vista,
King David 's,
~riendship,

Gen. Fund.

175 .. $
178..
179 . .·
180 . .
181 . .
182 ..
183 ..
184 . .
185 ..
186 . .
187 ...
188 ..
190 ..
191..
192 ..
193 ..
194 ..
195 ..
196 ..
198 ..

199 ..
200 . .
20i ..
202 ..
203 ..
204 ..
205 . .
206 ..
207 ..
208 ..
209 . .

210 ..
t:;an Benito,
211 ..
So. San Fran.,
212 . .
San Buena Ven., 214 . .
, Oak Grove,
215 ..
Doric,
216 ..
Monterey,
217 . .
Mosaic,
218 ..•
Speranza Ital., 219 ..
Downey,
220 . .
Inyo,
221 . .
Granite,
222 ..
224 ..
Bakersfield,

Home Fund.

82 40 $
2±5 80
128 25
214 60
67 45
50 65
28 55
38 20
51 55
41 15
93 65
420 35
51 60
157 15
125 55
102 55
64 15
·113 20
36 45
33 35
92 75
"148 60
59 00
551 35
24 85
I:l5 45
150 80
67 80
66 30
54 20
108 40
243 55
110 25
167 50
104 45
474 85
420 60
71 05
108 60
167 60
65 20
56 55
64 00
210 35

•

.GRAND' LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Tota.I

72 00 $ 154 40 $
204 00
449 80
115 00
243 25
208 00
422 60
71 00
138 45
47 00
97 65
29 00
57 55
36 00
74 20
49 00
100 55
37 00
78 15
87 00
180 65
393 00
813 35
48 00
99 60
137 00
294 15
109 00
234 55
191 55 ·
89 00
57 00
121 15
76 00
189 20
31 00
67 45
33 .00
66 35
85 00
177 75
108 00
256 60
60 00
.119 00
513 00
1,064 35
23 00
47 85
131 00
266 45
44 00
94 80
64 00
131 80
54 00
120 30
56 00
110 20
112 00
220 40
229 00
472 55
95 00
205 25
150 00
317 50
91 00
195 45
403 00
877 85
388 00
808 60 ·
59 00
130 05
88 00
196 60
148 00
315 60
56 00
121 20
49 00
105 55
60 00
124 00
173 00
383 35

Allowed
Rep'tvs

. 3 . 00

38 50
17 00
2 00
3 40 ;
11 00
25 60
36 60
4 40
20
21 00
7rJ
~2

50

5 60
20 60
35 70
10 00
19 60
4'90
35 oa
6 00
6 50
13 90
6 20
36 60
4 00
18 30
2 50
5 30
33 50

20
6 00.

35 70

23 20

Name and No.

Gen. Fund.

Home Fund.

Brooklyn,
225 .. $ 238 95
San Mateo,
226..
89 95
Athens,
228 . .
59 35
Solano,
229 ..
161 10
North Butte,
230 . .
GO 95
Covelo,
231..
49 60
Janesville,
232 ..
. 51 10
Calistoga,
233 ..
73 95
Hope,
234 ..
59 20
Surprise Valley, 235 ..
33 45
Hills Ferry,
236 ..
45 60
Guadalupe,
237 ..
41 20
Colusa,
240 ..
85 05
Santa Ana,
241..
226 55
Magnolia,
242 ..
77 40
Eucalyptus;
243 ..
78 35
Alcatraz,
244 ..
332 20
Laurel,
245 ..
89 75
Pomona,
246 ..
174 60
Fresno,
247 ..
314 45
Alturas,
248 ..
40 05
Ad.in,
250 . .
31 40
Bodie,
252 ..
40 90
Landmark,
253 ..
39 45
Reading,
25.4 ..
124 40
Welcome,
255 .•
128 50
Lodi,
256 ..
142 30
Penrhyn,
258 ..
47 65
Evergreen,
259 ..
225 40
King Solomon 'a, 260 ..
545 75
Tuscan,
261..
59 35
Lompoc,
262 ..
103 20
Hesperian,
264 ..
142 90
Orland,
265 . .
59 35
North East,
266 .•
33 25
Galt,
267 ..
32 45
Durant,
268 ..
363 05
Olive Branch,
269 ..
94 30
Snow Mountain, 271 ..
25 65
Pasadena,
272 ..
377 00
Anchor,
273 ..
63 25
Arroyo,
274 ..
45 80
Oakdale,
275 ..
64 40
Selma,
277 ..
98 65

$ . 201 00

81 00
. 53 00
138 00
61 00
48 O(')
38 00
61 00
56 00
31 00
48 00
36 00
79 00
209. 00
72 00
73 00
296 00
. 85 00
148 00
271 00
39 00
32 00
42 00
31 00
112 00
90 00
94 00
47 00
212 00
485 00
53 00
76 00
102 00
53 00
. 35 00
31 00
319

·oo ·

94 00
27 00
300 00
55 00
44 00
52 00
87 00

Tot.al.

$

439 95
170 95
112 35
299 10
121 95
97 60
89 10
134 95
115 20
64 45
93 60
77 20
164 05
435 55
149 40
. 151 35
628 20
174 75
322 60
585 45
79 05
63 40
82 90
70 45
236 40
218 50
236 30
94 65
437 40
1,030 75
112 35
179 20
244 90
112 35
68 25
63 45
682 05
188 30
52 65
677 00
118 25
89 80
116 40
185 65

$

Allowed
Rep'tvs

20
1 21
2 00
10 20

41 50
4 60
26 00
52 40
8 00
17 70
37 00
31 80
20
10 00
37 00
11 80
51 10
51 10
6 40
18 00
18 10
5 90
7 70
as· 50
8. 50
25 40
21 50

57 50
7 50
20

35 50
35 70
19 90
7 70
15 70

432

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total.
Gen. Fund. Home Fund.
Name and No.·
278 .. $ 644 65 $ 607 00 $ 1,251 65 $
So .. California,
i35 00
292 25
279..
157 .25
Hanford,
173 90
82 00
280..
91 90
Madera,
74 10
38 00
281..
36 10
Mt: Shasta,
80 25
35 00
282..
45 25
Callayomi,
115 25
55 00
283..
60 25
South West,
73 40
32
00
284.".
41
40
Tyrian,
95 20
36 00
285..
59 20
San Miguel,
128 95
.61 00
286..
67 95
Paso Robles,
139 15
57 oo·
287...
82 15
Winnedumah,
48 75
25
00
288..
.
23
75
Maxwell,
104 80
44 00
60.80
Elsinore,
289 ..
738 80
324 00
414 80
East Gate,
290 ..
218 30
94 00
124 30
Santa Paula,
291..
126 15
57
00
69
15
Los Gatos,
292 ..
155 55
69 00
86 55
Orange Grove,
293 ..
56 65
27
00
29
65
Traver,
294 ..
127 95
61 00
66 95
Mt. Jackson,
295 ..
344 35
153 00
191 35
Silver Gate,
296 ..
219 60
88 00
131 60
Dunsmuir,
297 ..
118
05
59
00
59
05
Mokelumne Hill, 298 ..
319 10
138 00
181 10
. Liberty,
·
299 ..
358 70
166 00
192 70"
Redlands,
300 ..
188 60
88 00
100 60
Ontario,
301 ..
81 90
42 00
39 90
Santa Lucia,
302 ..
190 45
91 00
99 45
Porterville,
303 ..
118 20
56 00
62 20
Reedley,
304 ..
161 45
71 00
90 45
305 ..
Azusa,
236 30
94 00
142 30
306 ..
Ashlar,
189 20
96
00
93
20.
307
..
Santa Monica,
155 35
73 00
82 35
308 ..
Monrovia,
80 30
34
00
46
30
309
..
Delano,
142 80
64 00
78 80
310 ..
Sisson,
74 25
35 00
39 25
312 ..
Los Banos,
171 15
77 00
94 15
313 ...
Tehachapi,
133 80
64 00
69 80
314 ..
Temescal,
80 10
38 00
42 10
315 ..
Norwalk,
141
65
67
00
74
65
316 ..
Sanger,
2·6 00
55 70
29 70
317 ..
Fallbrook,
91 65
47 00
44 65
318 ..
Emmanuel,
917 05
339 00
578 05
319 ..
Hollenbeck,
799 60
348 00
. 320 ..
451 60
South Gate,
80 05
39 00
41 05
321..
Alis al,
159 55
69 00
90 55
322'..
Alhambra,

Allowed

Rep'tvs

35 00
16 80
17 30
45 00
11 90
12.40
66 00
9 o.o
42 40
35 00
31 00
36 90
16 30
5 00
45 00
23 20
12 10
2 50 .
39·10
37 40
20 00
17 30
37 00
38 50
35 70
36 00
22 30
24 30
27 10
35 00
35· 90
16 30 •.
43 80
10 tO
35 00
35 00
2 20
35· 50

Name and No.
Gen. Fund.
Home Fund.
Total.
Whittier,
323 .. $ 133 30 $ 114 00 $ 247 30 $
Corona,
324..
234 30
214 00
. 448 30
325 ..
Consuelo,
50 50
50 00
100 50
Needles,
326 ..
61 10
58 00
119 10
Long Beach,
327 ..
231 85
203 00
434 85
·Redondo,
328 ..
125 10
78 00
203 10
Valle de France, 329 .. ·
54 75
45 00
99 75
Kilauea,
330 ..
102 75
117 00
219 75
Pacific Grove,
it31. .
45 00
40 00
85 00
San Pedro,
332 ..
127 90
102 00
229 90
Alta,
333 ..
40 95
41 00
81 95
Covina, ·
334 ..
79 od
• 60 00
139 00
West Gate,
335 ..
379 65
267 00
646 65
Fruitvale,
336 ..
151 15
97 00
248 15
Carquinez,
337 ..
63 10
58 00
121 10
San Jacinto,
338.:
82 15
57 00
139 15
Fullerton,
339 ..
87 55
89 00
176 55
Santa Maria,
340 ..
92 00
60 00
152 00
Oxnard,
341 ..
198 10
356 10
158 .oo
Manila,
316 00
256 00
572 00
34~ ..
. San Fernando,
343 ..
56 55
49 00
105 55
Starr King,
344 ..
222 25
155 00
377 25
Brentwood,
345 ..
61 80
44 00
105 80
Palo Alto,
346 ..
123 05
99 00
222 05
79 00.
McKinley,
347 ..
89 05
168 05
San Bernardino, 348 ..
204 10
178 00
382 10
Sequoia,
349 ..
232 25
155 00
387 25
. 68 00
Cavite,
112 00
350. ..
180 00
Palestine,
351 ..
181 50
130 00
311 50
Sunset,
352 ..
141 15
97 00
238 15
116 35.
Pinole,
353 ..
63 35
53 00
Presidio,
354 ..
126 00
208 70
334 70
126 90.
Hollywood,
355 ..
82 00
208 90
Mill Valley,
356 ..
97 90
• 62 00
159 90
102 85.
Buena Park,
357 ..
59 85
43 00
Golden State,
358 ..
210 65
127 00
337 65
Loyalton,
359 ..
44 30
34 00
78 30
204 45
San Francisco,
360 ..
131 00
335 45
Fort Bragg,
361..
69 15
57 00
126 15
Chari
362 ..
52 15
37 00
89 15
Berkeley,
363 ..
182 50
110 00
292 50
Olivet,
364 ..
46 15
37 00
83 15
· Willits,
54 10
365 ..
38 00
92 10
Las Palmas,
366 ..
131 65
87 00
218 65

ti,

433
Allowed
Rep'tvs

35 80
35 50
43 30
58 10
35 70
36 00
35 00
6 30
35 70
48 10
36 40
35 00
20
1 80
44 70
36 40
21 pO
30 80

35 00
3 50
1 90

80
38 50
20
35 00
35 00
1 40
35 50
50
36 20
35 00

3 00

20
11 70
11 80

434

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Allowed
Total.
Rep'tvs
Gen. Fund. Home Fund .
Name and No.
35 50
$
110 00
$
40
00
$
70
00
Sou th Pasadena, 367 .. $
35
00
136
45
51 00
85 45
368 ..
Unity,
35 50
138 70
46
00
92
70
369 ..
Ocean Park,
215 25 ..........
55 00
160 21?
. 370 ..
Anuty,
229 10 ..........
114
00
115
10
371 ..
Oceanic,
35 50
82 60
28 00
54 60
U. D ..
Gr.rdena,
..........
193
55
69
00
124 55
U. D ..
Veteran,
114 40 ...........
32 00
82 40
U . D ..
Jewel,
143 00 ...........
40
00
103 00
U. D ..
Richmond,
70
78 85
23 00
55 85
Francis Drake, U. D ..
35 60
91
50
30
00
61 50
U. D ..
Artesia,
35 00
121 35
33 00
88 35
U. D ..
:Miz.Pah,
25 00
68
70
26
00
42 70
U. D·..
Fillmore,
35
50
44
10
18 00
26 10
H-unt. Beach" U. D ..
. 45 00
43
05
19
00
24 05
U. D ..
O<:eanside,
.Making t1Jtal dues .. $39,495 35

$33,769 00

$73,264 35

$ 4,637 20'

·

B d
d the subordiCong~aiulations are again due this Grand o Y an I .
.
nate Lodges on the very marked increase in m~mbership. t is ::nte;:~
t call attention to the immense handicap resultant up
essary o
h. h t 00 k the homes from many of the suborearthquake and fires, w ic
h
d
ork
diriate Lodges, and for a period covering s~veral. mont s ma e w
exiremely difficult and, in many instances, impossible.
·
d f m 3!,561 in
The returns show a ·gain of 2,208, having mcre:;ise
ro

1905, to 33, 769 in 1906.
The report, therefore, is particularly pleasing an~ serves t~e=~~h:;
size the strong hold that :Masonry has upon the mmds and
.
honest men.
For the ii.formation of those Brethren who take an inter.est in h~h~
growth of our Fraternity your Committee submits the followrng, w ic .
shows the membership of the ten largest Lodges:
~
.807
·Mission Lodge, No. 169 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
607
California Lodge, No. 1. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 ..•.......... 607
601
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
513
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 · · · · · : · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
524
Oce1dental Lodge, No. 22 · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
9
Paei:fic Lodge, No. 136. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .4 0
King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260 ............... .485
42
Fidelity Lodge; No. 120. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · .4
423
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30.- · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
"Holmaking a total membership in the ten largest Lodges of 5,498.

43fi

lenbeck" Lodge, No. 319, has conferred more· degrees than any other
in this Juris'.liction, having conferred 256 degrees.
Your Committee finds tha~ the returns and reports a~e properly
preserved, and that their contents are conveniently and handsomely
tabulated and recorded in the books of the Grand Secrtary.
The Grand Secretary and his assistant have earned the thanks and
ap;ireciation of this Committee for their efforts in presenting in a
concise and available. manner the facts and statistics for this report.
Re~pectfully submitted,

W. P. JEFFRIES,
HENRY C. SCHERTZER,
GEO. F. RODDENK,
ERNEST C. BONNER,
HENRY SHERRY,
Committee.

Which was concurred in:
Bro. Henry M. Owens, from the Special Committee on
Relief Fund, presented the following: .
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the Special Reports of the
General Masonic Relief Fund, begs leave to report:
That it has. scrutinized most carefully the reports and the financial
statements, r. nd finds no other criticism necessary or adequate than
the highest commendation for the work done and the manner in
which it was executed. The Committee considers every page of this
glorious record of philanthropy a tribute to that Freemasonry which
evidences itself ~ot in formulas · or rituals, but in deeds of kindness
done. An ancient sage declared ~hat we should thank God for the evil
as well as for the good, and the philcnmphy of that counsel is evidenced
in the great blessing that flowed from full hearts to the distressed
population 0f our beloved city as an earnest and a proof of the great
goud :Masonry has done for the wodd.
Your Committee has had submitted to it the report of expert acco=tants ~ertifying to the correctness of the accounts of the Relief
Fund Committee, and your Committee feels assured, as it did before
this testimony was offered, that the fund was wisely admi!:istered,
th~ amounts properly expended and the accounts faithfully and correctly kept. Great credit is due those in charge for the economy
ptfcticed in the matter of salaries and other expenses of adminis-

437

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

trution. In view of the foregoing, your Commit.tee begs to offer the
following:

We cannot refrain from congratula~ing the Grand Lodge and Ma110nry in general, for the wisdom given us to select such a man for
this highly important and arduous post. The Grand Lodge is peculiarly fortunate in being able to command the services even in part
of one trained for a lifetime in the profession of teaching. One ·to
whom the imparting of knowledge has become practically a second
nature. And when we consider the kindly tact and polished diplomacy
with which this work has been accomplished, we cannot but renew
our congratulations. Brother Edwards has not hesitated to praise
where praise was due, nor has he withheld censure where that was
called for. And it is this fearless administration of the duties of his
high office,_coupled with the kindly manner of his teaching, which has
so endeared him to our hearts, and at the same time brought . the work
to its present high standard of efficiency. Since the adoption of the
new ritual the duties of his office have been greatly augmented, and
all Masons will readily realize what a stupendous task confronted the
Grand Lecturer in bringing about the change all over this vast jurisdiction, and when we see· that it is admitted that the work in these
few short years has been entirely remodeled and brought to a degree
of perfection, where it is' a subject of favorable comment all over the
United States, we can begin feebly to realize ~hat a herculean undertaking the Grand I.ecturer has accomplished and how great should be
our appreciation of his efforts.

436

Resolved' That this Grand Lodge hereby expresses its high appreci:ttion of t~:i ability of M. W. G. M. Motley H. Flint and the humane
anl Maso~ie spirit that guided him in his successful efforts to relieve
the distressed.
II. Res1Jlved, That the Grand Lodge hereby expresses its commendation of the work of relief as carried on under the supervision
of Bros. W. Frank Pierce, Harry Lask and th?se mentioned as co-operating witl:i them..

rn:

Resolved, That the Grand Lodge hereby desires to record its
inc:radicable appreciation of the prompt and gracious tenders of assistance and encouragement that reached us from all Masonic jurisdictions and bodies during the period of our cala~ity.
IV. Resolved, That the Grand Lodge approve the suggestion of
M. W. Motley H. Flint in reference to continuing the work of the
fund during the winter, and recommend same to the incoming Grand .
M:.ster for a.ction.
V. Resolved, That copies of .the special report covering the entire
work of relief be sent to all Masonic jurisdictions, foreign and domesti ~, to the Congressional Library, and to all libraries in this State,
that this Monument to Masonic Philanthropy ~ay be preserved.
Respectfully submitted,
J. NIETO,
H. M. OWENS,
J. W. ANDERSON,
Committee.

\Vhich was concurred m and the resolutions adopted.
Bro. Rodolph W. Meek, from .the Special Committee on
tht Grand Lecturer's report, presented the following-:
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee to whom was referred the report of the Very
Worshipful Wm. Harvey Edwards, Grand Lecturer, beg to submit the
following repor~:
·
·
We feel that we cannot take up the report in detail without, in
passing, at least making a few general co=ents on the admirable and
efficient ma·. iner in whieh the office of Grand Lecturer has been filled
in recent years.

We note with great satisfaction that the large majority of the In11pectors have been faithful and diligent in the discharge of their
duties, but we. also note the deplorable negligence of some Lodges ·in
permitting their work to fall far below. the standai:-d, and failing to
seek the assistance of the Inspectors to the end that this condition
might be remedied.
With regard to the recommendation of the Grand Lecturer that the
Inspectors be vested with the power to suspend the work of any Lodge
nntil the proper degree of _proficiency has been attained, we concur in
the advisability of conferring such authority upon the Inspectors and
re.commend that this portion of the Grand Lecturer's report be referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We heartily concur in the recommendation of the Grand Lecturer
that the Junior and Senior Wardens-elect be required to perfect
themselves in the Entered Apprentice and Entered Apprentice and Fellow Craft Degrees· respectively before installation in their respective
offices and recommend that this portion of the report be referred to
the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We eannot but feel that the criticism of the Grand Lectµrer of the
present form o_f Anderson's Manual is well taken1 and _con<:ur ~th

438

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF . CALIFORNIA.

him that a valuable and able work has been shorn of much of its value
and power for good, and therefore :recommend the adoption of the
Grand Lecturer's suggestion that this manual be referred to the author
by the Grand Lodge for revision and exemplification.

themselves in the lectures, were referred to t he c0
.
·
d ence.
· T hose portions
·
on ·J unspru
relating to a r mm1ttee
· .
ev1s1on of
t h e M anual and the .salary
of the Grand · Leetqrer, Wer
.
e
r eferred to the Committee on Finance.

We

note with particular pleasure the sentiments of the 9-rand
Lecturer upon the subject of devoting hie entire time to the work of
this office. It may not be amiss to say in this connection that other
Jurisdictions, notably New York and Missouri, require the whole time
of the Grand Lecturer and pay him a salary commensurate with such
requirements. Masonry has ·reached such a point in California that
such .a requirement on the part of the Grand Lodge seems absolutely
essential if we are to retain our present high standard among the
jurisdictions of the United States. It is not alone instruction in the
ritualistic work which we ought to require of the Grand L .e cturer, but
having a man capable of doing so, it would immensely add to the edu·
cational value of the office, if we could receive from him lectures and
instructions upon the history, principles, ground work, symbolism and
the law and jurisprudence of the Order. But it is totally otit of the
question to expect such ser;vices from our Grand Lecturer unless he
can devote his whole time ·to the office, and if we ask that of him we
must be prepared to pay him a salary in accordance with the demands which we make upon him. We are asking the entire time and
attention of an expert, · and we must be prepared to pay according to
the services which we receive. So while we hesitate to recommend a
figure, for the purpose of bringing the matter in concrete form before
the Grand Lodge, we would recommend that the salary of the Grand
Lecturer be fixed for the ensuing year at Twenty-five Hundred Dollars,
with the usual allowance for traveling expenses.
In conclusion, we would again reiter~te our appreciation which we
.feel confident is concurred in by the Grand Lodge and Masons throughout the ·state, of the magnificent administration of the Grand Lecturer,
and while Brother Edwards in his usual modesty has refrained from
touching upon a greater part of his achievements, a perusal of the
Grand Lodge report, showing the growth of this Order in this State
and our own personal contact with his delightful personality, speak
volumes for him in his work and. as a man and a Mason.
Respectfully submitted,

R. W ." MEEK,
D.R. WELLE,
A. J. THATCHER,
Committee.

Which was concurred in and those portions relating to
Inspector's power to suspend work and Warden's perfecting

439

Bro. Elmer M. Billings presented the following:
Whereas, St ocks of private corporat ions have an
.
fi ct t •
1
Lo
uncertam a d
. u . ua mg va ue, a
dge investing therein is not only liable
n
its investment, but may be called on for assessments· th . f to lose
.
'
ere ore
. R~eolved; Tha~ a~i~e from Masonic Hall Associations the ·
Lodges
m this Grand Jurisdiction are forbidden to make such .
:
investments.
0

Which was referred to the Committee on Juris ·d··
.
pru ence.
·
· .
On m~tion the M. :. W . :. Motley H . Flint Grand M
.
and the V. :. W. :. George· Johnson, Grand Secretary aster,
added to the Committee on the New Temple.
. ' were
The Grand Master a,nn~unced t he appointm~nt of the
Poards of Trustees of the Homes at Decato and s
briel a committee, to report at the Annual Comm· ~n ?a.
.
h
.
. un1catton
m !907, any c ange m the rules and regulations ·f h
. t't
·
ms
1 u t'ions w h'1ch might.seem
desirable. He also a o t. Ose
Bros. W. Frank Pierce, Rodolph W . Meek and B~~~mted
Owens a committee on the condition of Masonr . y M.
Philippine Islands.
Y Ill the
The Grand Lodge was then called off until
this afternoon.
two o'clock

~u. ~rauh 11Jnhgr.
Afternoon Session
l
Thursday, ~ctober r rtb, A. L. 5906. I
The Grand Lodg~ was called on at two o'clock th G
Mast~r presiding.
•
' e rand

440

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This being the hour for the special order, as ordered by
the Grand Lodge yesterday, the Grand Or;ttor, the W. :. Bro.
Oscar Lawler, delivered the Annual Oration before the
Grand Lodge, as follows :
' 'God moves in a mysterious way his wonders to perform.''.
Since the Divine fiat was sent forth which . brought the world from
darkness to light, the planet in its course through space has progressed
in :i series of diurnal revolutions, with alternating periods of light
and darkness, and as, in a never-ending circling around the central
sun, it never traverses exactly the same .t rack, but comes almost back
to the. same places, only always a little farther on through the infinite
expanse, so, there often seems to be a corresponding system of progress
in the world of thought and knowledge. .
Man, the creature, is born, passes through the morning, noon and
evo.·ning of life, to vanish into the Great Beyond, whither his fathers
have gone before him; nations are brought into existence, wax great
anu powerful, ultimately to wither and decay, goin·g the way of all
eart hly things; God the Creator, everlasting and perpetual, supervit1·
ing the passing generations, in his infinite wisdom has made each
o~e better than th~ one which went b efore, and in the building of
nations has given us a government of to-day b etter and more benefi·
cent than its predecessor of yesterday.
'T o human eyes the Divine purpose and the manifestations of the
judgments of the Almighty have ofttimes- nay always-been a
mystery. To their dim and restricted v ision. the visitatigns of a socall:id merciful God have been sore afllic:tions, and the course of human
affairs has at times seemed to be one of retrogression rather than of
progress; but, in due course of time, which "healeth all wounds, " the
calamity of yesterday forms the background for the bountiful blessing of to-day-the pestilential visitation to one generation brings
for.th the means of securing health and immunity therefrom to its
successor, and the grossness, passion and vice of one day has turned
man to ''love virtue, for she alone is free,'.' the next.

from

The J ew was led .
the bondage and <;>ppression of Egypt to
the Promised Land, where his genius established and his successors
, have maintained a system of personal conduct and a st andard of
moral character which affords an example susceptible of profitable
imito.tion; and, though for centuries he has been a wanderer on the
faee of the earth, th?ugh (to their shame be it said), he has been
oppressed by ev ery people of ev ery gener ation, and though to~ay the

b~o?~

441

.
of his brethren is enriching the soil of a corrupt and nominally

e1vibzed country, yet, as he contemplates the story of his race and
tlnds , it illumined by contributions to t he world and to hum~nity
ric'i. beyond compare and by examples of patient fortitude and steadfa..:;t fer;en.cy in his religious devotions, and its present marked by
leadi;rsh1p lil every field of human endeavor,-:i.n letters, in a rt, in
gtivernment, and in charitable efforts to alleviate and improve the
coni).ition of his fellow-man; who is there to deny in him the fulfillment of a divine purpose, and· who will not rejoice with his Hebrew
brother in the proud heritage of the Mother of all religions '
When the trials and tribulations of the Prince of Peace were ended .
.
by :m ignominious deat h upon the cross at Golgotha contemporaries
marked the. mere . passing of a fomeµter of discord and plotter against
existing institutions, the eli~nation of a dangerous and disturbing
element; but, whether He was a 'personal divinity or a prodigy of
human virtue, the brutal and inhuman circumstances of bis taking
t'ff have served to emphasize in striking contrast to the vice and
pa~ionate indulgence of the time the sublimity of his life and character, which for nineteen hundred years has b een the pole star of rec·
titude, the ·inspiration .and guide of a great portion of the human
race in the path of virtue.
At an early day a great r eligious hierarchy was established hav ing
for its purpose the promulgation of the pr ecepts and exemplification
:;f tl:e practices of the lowly man of Galilee-with the lapse of time
and accumul~t~on of power it assumed control and dominion, not only
over the rehg1ous, but also over the civil and 'governmental affairs
of men and nations. Tpe opposition thus aroused resulted in a controversy without parallel for the cruelty, bitterness, bloodthirstiness and
unbridled a.way of ·animal passion displayed , and in which the characteristic least observable was the Christian virtue professed by all
the participants. Protestant vied with Catholic in devising means of
torturing human beings into false professions-while Alva butchered
Calvi~ burned. If Mary led her victims to the stake, Elizabeth cas~
h~rs. mto foul dungeons, there to starve and rot.
But, while the
'71ctims .of those dreadful times may have felt that the God of Hosts
had abandoned man to accomplish his own destruction, and t hat his
eo•1rse was one of r etrogression, w e who ar e enjoying the fruits
of the long struggle for r eligious liberty, standing upon free soil,
privileged to exercise our r eligious devotions at such time and in s~ch
manner as an unrestricted conscience may dictate, acknowledging
~tizenship in a country whose sole demand is that we ·be true t o our·
lelves, can realize that the contradiction and barbarism of the Reformation was but part of the Divine plan of transition from a stat e
19

442

443

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

of human serfdom and religious hypocrisy to a condition of citizen
sovereignty and religious truth.
.

upon intolerance, oppression of every description, it has by precept and
e:xa!I!ple and with due regard for the frailities of human nature" infjisted upon education ur>.d enlightenment as ·the only sure panacea for
human ills. Looking to the individual as the basis of all society, i~
demands of him not only the faithful observance of his \luty to himself, but a due performance of his relativll obligations to his fellowman, and to posterity. :r he is upright and honorable in his professions
his religion will be a power for good, regardless of his denominationif dishonest and hypocritical it will be a delusion and a farce. If as
a citizen he is pure and honest, the country will reflect those virtues,
and insist on ·the practice of that same honesty in governmental affairs
whi~h should prevail in dealings between man and marr; but, if he
be corrupt the county will be corrupt also. The foremost citizen, who
has led in the efforts at the maintenance of proper moral standards is
a member of our Craft, and may we not flatter ourselves that his
ropcrb confidence in hi<i fellow-man and magnificent optimism for the
llltimate destiny of his country have been at least in part inspired by
a familiarity with its principles and operatio'nsY

The "divine.right of kings" had its origin and growth in the cupidity of princes and the ignorance of subjects. Through it the physical,
mLntal and religious responsibility of the citizen was subordinated to
the will and· caprice M the sovereign. As the appetite grows great by
what it feeds upon, possession of some power created the lust for more,
and in course of time husband and son were bartered away in military·
serv1ce to enri<jh ·the crown, while wife and daughter were reduced to
harlotry fo~ kings, until, goaded to desperation by unbearable oppression and revolting at the grossness of the prevailing immorality; the
populace, unchecked by education, and. spurred .by passion for veng<>~tnce, visited its wrath upon all persons in high places and innocent
and guilty were alike swallowed in the ".Ortex of the French ~evolu­
ti<'n. To say that God was accountable for the blood and carnage of
the time would be almc>st sacrilege, and yet, when, cringing at the
sound of the approaching mob the modern autocrat hastens from his
bomb-proof seclusion to proclaim reform, may we not at least say that
~he demonstration of rnppressed energy and reserved power of the
multitude thus accomplished was not an unmi:ii:ed evil f
In our own country the Puritan landed at Plymouth and the Catholic in Maryland, both ready and willing to face the privations of the
new world in order to escape the persecutions of the old, and ei1tered
upon a course of religious bigotry and intolerance, second only in
degree to that from which they had fled. But enforced association in
a struggle against common hardships and an enemy impressed the_m
that each had permitted unchristian narrowness to dwarf his estimat'3 of the other, and, when the bonfires of the revolution were lighted
we find Jew and Gentile, Protestant and Catholic, marching shoulder
to shoulder, sacrificing life for life in that great struggle for the
establishment of a government which would guarantee both civil and
religious liberty.
The progenitors of American independence promulgated the 'doctrme that all men are born free and equal; and yet, when t~e funda·
mental law was established, it 11ounte11anced the very antithesis of
freeclom by recognizing the institution of slavery. By some that
recognition is still attributed to weakness and decried as a mistake;
but, when we realize the portentous effect for good to the entire
human race of the mighty struggle involved in the eradication of
slavery, we may be pardoned the assurance in the course of our
country's affairs of the guiding forc.e of div}ne intuition.
Through all of the ages and with all of the changes and progress.
of the human race Freemasonry has existed and kept pace. Frowning

Though recent progress in moral regeneration has been great,
there are yet evils to be met; still problems to be solved and difficul·
ties to be surmounted whose magnitude occasions faltering and pessim"
ism in the we:j.k ·at heart. They cannot, however, be satisfactorily
combated by approachi.rig them in a spirit of intolerance, nor can they
be solved by men embittered with prejudice. ''To err is human-to
£orgive divine."
·Heretofore the passions of men have driven the great pendulum
of rrogress first to one extreme and then the other of the situation
which for the time engrossed them,. and only after great sacrifice of
time and blood has genuine reform been accomplished. Civilizl}tion
is too far ·advanced to permit a recurrence of such experiences. While
we may be privileged to criticise and regulate the conduct of our fellow, our criticism and regulation must be tempered by a knowledge
o~ our own shortcomings.
It -is not unnatural that the possessor of great wealth and the
incidental power it brings should view any attempt to regulate his
use thereof or conduct in relation thereto as an unjust and unwarranted infringement of his rights-nor is it perhaps remarkable that
the toilers of the land should look upon the interference of the law to
prevent the destruction of the property rights of another as unjust
and oppressive. Both are wrong; yet neither can be convinced of his
e_r=or by bitter denunciation or personal abuse. The remedy will not
come through weak submission on one side nor arrogant assertiveness

445

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

upon the other, but through mutual concession and conciliation, which
will preserve the good and eliminate the evil of their respectiv~ positions.
;f'reemasonry as an institution and l!'reemasons as individuals can·not be separated from the ordinary affairs of life. It is not a mere
toy, serving as a mental diversion at each annual Communication,
nor on idle lip service t(/ be performed in the Lod_ge room. It is a
great, living moral force which should pervade and regulate human conduct from childhood to age, at the hearthstone, on the marts of trade,
in the social and business intercourse between -man and man. Its principles expre~s and their practice should exemplify the cardinal virtuos which should be part and parcel of our every-day existence.

Since our last Annual Co=unication many of our brothers have
beeii summoned by our Supreme Grand Master to pass through the
portals of the Great Temple above-that ''house not made ·with hands
eternal in the heavens." Among those who have obeyed the final
summons· are two who had passed the Oriental Chair and been prominent in this Grand Lodge for faithful attention to duty and for zeal
in inculcating the sublime principles of our ancient and honorable
fraternity. We miss them from their accustomed -places; we miss their
kindly greetings. The ties of bro.therly love and friendship have been
strengthened by the associations. in the years that have gone; and
when ·we realize that those cherished associations are never to be
renewed on earth, our hearts swell with emotions that language is·
powerless to express. How sad the· thought of the separation!

Never in the history of civilization since the elimination of religion from government has there been a time when a proper application
of J.!asonic virt'ue could accomplish so much .f or the perpetuity and
peace of beneficent institutions. We are taught that time, patience
and perseverance, with proper exercise of temperance, fortitude, fervency and zeal; will accomplish all things. Let each party to existing
controversies, standing upon that common level established by our
magnificent institution, with patient zeal endeavor to bring about an
adjustment . of differences, and persevere in his efforts,- let each with'
temperate consideration for the judgment of his fellow, and courage·
ou~ fortitude in the hour of trial, zeafously seek the right and fervently pursue it, and in God's own time honor, justice and truth will
ultimately prevail.
OSCAR LAWLER,
Grand Orator.

A few months ago I stood in the gallery of that Temple where for
"so many years we were wont to assemble-that dear old Temple now
laid in dust and ashes, and as I gazed upon the life-like portraits of
my departed brothers with whom I had associated in this Grand
Lodge, a feeling of sadness came over me that defied my soul 's resistance, and, like the lonely cavalier in Locksley Hall, I seemed to hear
the phantom years whispering, "Never! Never!" Never to hear
their voices again! Never to stand in the living presence and receive
the hearty, fraternal greeting!

444

On motion of M. :. W. :.. Bro. Charles L Patton it was
ordered that the thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered to
the Grand Orator for his interesting and eloquent address;
that he be requested to furnish a copy thereof for publication
with its proceedings ; and special copies printe.d for distribution.
Past Grand Master Edmund C. Atkinson then add~essed
the Grand Lodge as follows : .
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
As we assemble in Annual Communication to resume our accustomed duties for the benefit of the Craft, and for the exchange of fraternal courtesies, we· are saddened by the appearance of vacant places;
and we note with sorrow the absence of some ·of our most faithful colaborers.

What a mystery is death! Philosophers tell us that God never
gives to man the k ey that opens the golden gate of Eternity until his
time shall come to enter there. The only proof they give us of
i=ortality is that the desire to live again is implanted in every
human breast; that . the sun-browned children of the forest see God in
clouds and dream of happy hunting grounds beyond the star-gemmed
sky; that the polished and imaginative Greek in fancy walks in Hesperian gardens and roams in Elysian fields. This is their conclusion:
It muet be so!

Plato, thou reasonest well,
. Else why this longing !or Immortality?

But, my brethren, our faith requires a firmer foundation. The
philosophy of six thousand years has failed to search the chambers of
the human soul. Reason, unless it .be illumined by inspiration, leaves
us in the cold and chilling atmosphere of uncerta.inty and doubt.
Intellect is not our highest endowment. Imagination is not our crowning faculty, Every form of genius is inferior to conscience, to faith,
to sym.p athy and love. Man became a liv ing soul when God breathed
into him the breath of life. The soul is then divine--=-a part of the
Infinite life, similar in essence but different in degree. If God is the
Infinite Spirit of Life back of all, from which all comes, then clearly
our life, as individualized spirits, is continually coming from that
Infinite S~urce by_divine inflow.

446

447

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The great central fact in. human life is the coming into a vital,
conscio.u s realization of our oneness with the Infinite Life; and in 80
far as we come into this realization, and open our receptivities to the
Divine Inspiration, do we actualize in ourselves the qualities and
powers of the Infiuite Life, and bring ourselves into harmony with
great laws and forces.

frivileged to speak to you for a few moments upon the life and character of our lamented Past Grand Master, William Johnston.

The human soul is God's highest creation and th.r ough it must
come the clearest revelations. In these revelations God speaks to us
through Nature. As we approach . the lofty mountain, we feel the
breath of Infinite presence upon the heart. As we stand upon the
.border line of the·unsounded sea, the soul aches with immensity when
a deep voice from those pearly cav.es tells of the Boundless Evermore.
As we stand beneath the stal'l'Y heavens at night and realize that all
those bright specks that shine and sparkle in heaven's high archway
are worlds floating upon the sea of Infinite power, for an instant we
.catch a glimpse of the truth, the power and the glory of Almighty
God, and, under a spell of inspiration, we realize that Infinite thought
and care encircle, embosom and penetrate · the whole of creation. But
our faith is strengthened by a still higher inspiration when we turn
to the human form, and through the windows of the soul discern that
vital principle within, which will survive the wrecks and mutations
of time, triumph over death and the dissolution of the elements and
dwell at last in the sunlight of eternal peace.
From the border line of light where history begins there comes to
us the great ·q\leBtion of the ages, "If a man die shall he live again J"
Are we ready with the answer1
That question has been uppermost in my mind since early manhood. The day:star of my life is far past the meridian ·and hastening
now with prone career to the Ocean Isles. For myself I am ready to
give the answer. "I have asked that dreadful question of the hills
that look eternal, of the purling streams that rippling flow forever;
of the stars amid whose fields of azure my rapt spirit hath trod in
glory,-all were dumb; but now as I gaze upon the living face and feel
that the love which kindles thro:ugh its beauty can never wholly
perish,'' I believe-I KNOW that we shali live again. As sure as I
have faith in the existence of "'!i?-, the All-Father, I believe that we
shall live to join the loved and lost in realms of light beyond the
confines of earth.
The stars come nightly to the sky,
The tidal wave unto the sea;
Nor time, nor space, nor deep nor high
Can keep my own away from me.
Through the kindness of our Most Worshipful Grand Master, I am

Our departed brother was born in· Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania, June
2, 1825. He came from rural parentage and of a long line of tillers of
the ~oil; In youth he labored on hi!J father's farm in summer and
attended the district school in. the winter months. From boyhood he
was a diligent worker, doing with alI°his might what his hands found
to do. So diligent was he in his studies and so rapid was his progress
that at the age of 19 years he became a teacher in the public schools.
The following year he fell a victim to the ''gold fever''; he joined a
large party of neighbors and friends and journeyed across the plains
to California, the El Dora~o of the West. He crossed the snow-capped
Sierras and descending the western slope came into the Sacramento
valley; and at sight of a beautiful spot on the bank of the Sacramento
river he exclaimed, "Here I pitch my tent." His first night's rest
was beneath a giant oak, which in after years shaded his beautiful
dwelling. He secured a tract of land in acc.ordance with his means
and later purchased large outlying tracts until he came into possessio~
of one of the largest and most fruitful farms on the Sacramento river.
He built an elegant r~sidence :ind brought around. it everything that
could conduce to the comforts and enjoyments of home. Peace and
Plenty sat smiling at his door.
It was my privilege to enjoy an. intimate acquaintance with our
brother for more than thirty years. I was often a visitor at his home
and he a guest at mine. For nearly twenty years we met once a week
as directors of a corporation which .was the cutsodian of the poor
man's ·s avings, the widow's mite, and the orphan's heritage. It was
in this relation that I learned to admire our brother for his rigid
adherence to justice and right.

Brother Johnston's every act was the sequence of mature thought.
He made no failure, left nothing undone, improvei;J. every hour, and
every year's effort tended to material prosperity.
He was also a man of public spirit; he did much for the general
sn-osperity of the State, and served in many positions of trust. His
advice was eagerly sought in private and public enterprises. His hand
and heart were ever open to public and private charities.
As a public speaker he aspi~ed to· no ·flights of eloquence, he used
no ~mooth and rounded periods. His words were simple, plain,
ftta1ghtforward, and big with meaning. He held the attention of his
audiences and impressed his hearers with the superiority of his judg·
ment. Many times I listened to his words in the halls of legislation
and observed him in the dignified position of President of the State

...
448

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Senate. At all times and in all places he acquitted himself with credit
to his name· and honor to the position.
As Grand Master of the Grand Lodge he was ever faithful in the
discharge of his official duties, and zealous in promoting peace and
harmony among the Craft. He appointed the first Trustees of the
Masonic Home, and for years thereafter he was a faithful member
of the Board. His last appearance in this Grand Lodge was at the
Annual Communication of 1904. He had already received the Supreme
Grand Master's warning to gather up his working tools and prepare
to quit earth's field of labor. He had suffered from a stroke of par- ·
alysis, and could with difficulty converse with the brethren. A short
time thereafter a second admonition was given and he entered into
a state of mental decline. He was often oblivious to time and place,
and a guide attended him wherever he went. At last came the third
warning. ''God's finger touched him and he slept.'' On the fourteenth of last November, as the shades of night were gathering round
his beautiful home on the banks of that river which for more than
fifty years had gladdened his heart with its musical cadences, our
brother bade adieu to the scenes of earth and passed into the Silent
Land.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

449 .

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:It is not often that we ar.e so forcibly reminded of the uncertainty
of human life as we were when, on the 13th day of December, 1905,
our friend 11:nd Brother, the M.:. W.:. Hiram Newton Rucker, Past
Grand Master of this Jurisdiction, was, without a moment's warning,
called f~m a life of usefulness among us to the Grand Lodge above.
He had been in attendance upon a meeting of the Board of Trustees
of our Masonic. Home, of which he was the Superintendent, and 'was
returning to the Home, when the accident occurred which caused
his death. One moment vigorous and strong, filled with enthusiasm
for the work for which he was so well fitted, looking forward to
many years o:f' usefulness and companionship with his Brethren, the
next, he had gone to join the innumerable throng in ''that undiscovered country, from whose bourne no traveler returns.''

I see many new faces befor(J me. My brothers, you, who are here
for the first time, are not expected to enter ful}y into our deep sorrow,
for you did not know our departed brother. But the lessons of this
hour and the influence of this sacred observance should make deep andp
lasting impressions upon your minds and hearts. You have, no doubt,
felt the pangs of separation from friends and brothers and, .even now
you may be cherishing the memory of loved ones lost. Unite then
with us in the comforting assurance that, if our Masonic fli!-ith be not
founded .upon the quicksands-if our hope be not a delusion and a
will-o '-the-wisp, the separation is not final; that when the storms of
. life are past, when the mistakes and discords of time no more annoy,
when the clouds of sorrow and the mists of doubt have rolled a,way,
there will be an unbroken reunion out beyond life's golden sunset
where earth's shadows never fall.

Brother Rucker lived practically his whole life in California; he
was born on September 6th, 1844, at Arrow Rock, in the State of
Missouri, and came to this State with his parents at the age of six
years, and thenceforth continually resided here. His first home here
was in our beautiful Santa Clara Valley, where he was educated in
our public schools and at the University of the Pacific, from which
he graduated (with the first class of the medical department) in the
year 1870. For the following eighteen years he made his home and
practiced his profession in Merced County. He was one of the prominent citizens of the county for many years; and always took a
commendable interest in public affairs. For a long time he served
his fellow citizens in the official capacity of Coroner and Public
Administrator, and was also Chairman of the Democratic County
Central Committee. In the year 1884 he was appointed by the
Governor of the State to be a Director of the State Hospital at Stockton, and in the year 1888 he was elected to the important office
of Superintendent of that institution, which office he held for four
years. In the year 1892 he removed to Oakland, where for the
following nine years he resided and practiced his profession, and was
for a season President of the Board of Health. In the year 1901 he
returned to the scene of his early labors in Merced County, where
he continued to reside until, in 1904, he responded to the insistent
call of his Brethren to take upon himself the duties of Superintendent
of the Masonic Home at Decoto, which office ·he most acceptably
filled ' until the time of his death.

Past Grand Master Frank M. Angellotti then spoke as
follows:

Brother Rucker was made, passed and raised in our "La Grange"
Lodge, No. 99, of Merced, in the year 1873. He was the Master of
that Lodge for the year 1877, and again for the year 1902. From
the year 1877 he was a faithful attendant upon the communications

Authorized by our Most Worshipful Grand Master, I opened the
Grand Lodge at Sacramento, and, with the beautiful and impressive
ceremonies of our Order, laid the lifeless form of Past Grand Master
William Johnston in the tomb-there to rest "until the day break
and the shadows flee away.''

"
450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of the Grand Lodge. His sterling worth was soon recognized in this
body, and he was made a member of the Co=ittee on Grievances,
where he served until, on October 12th, ·1883, he was elected Junior
Grand Warden. He was re-elected to that office for a . second term
on October 17th, 1884. On October 16th, 1885, he was elected Senior
Grand Warden, and on October 15th, 1886, Deputy Grand Master.
On October 14th, 1887, he was elected Grand Master of Masons of
the State of California. An examination of the rec:iord of his· year's
service in that exalted position will suffice to show his high idea
of its duties and responsibilities, and his appreciation of the honor
bestowed upon him by his Brethren. He gave practically all of his
time to the many duties of the office, and he discharged those duties
with signal ability. It was well said of him by the Special Committee
to whom was referred his annual address: "Weighed in the balance
of duty, our present Grand ·Master is not found wanting.'' His
interest in the Fraternity did not cease with his retirement from the
Grand East, but each succeeding communication of the Grand Lodge
found him present, ready ·and glad to serv~ his Brethren in any place
where his experience and wisdom might make him useful. For many
years he was a member of our Committee on Jurisprudence, and his
associates on that committee c_a n testify to the value of his services
and the beneficent effect of his presence.
We shall sorely miss ' Brother Rucker at our annual communications. To those who knew him and loved him, the record he has left
behind him will, however, be a solace and an inspiration. It is a
record without a blemish. He lived the life enjoined upon him upon
his admission to our Fraternity. He was a good man, a good citizen,
a good Mason. He was faithful. to the tnist committed to his care.
Although we shall . see him no more, the good influences of his life
will be effective among us for many years to come.
Brother Rucker was, on December 29th, 1873, united in marriage
to Emma T. Abbott, a native of Massachusetts, who, with one daughter, E. Robin Rucker, survive him. Our heartfelt sympathy is theirs
in the · hour of their affliction, deprived as they are of the loving ·
companionship and protection of the devoted husband and the affectionate father.

By a unanimous vote of Grand Lodge Bros. Atkinson
and Angellotti were requested to furnish copies for publication with its Proceedings, and. the Grand Secretary was
instructed to forward copies to the families of our deceased
Past Grand Masters·.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

451

Bro. E. F . Richards, from the Committee on Charters,
presented the following:
.
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committeti has had· referred to it the following resolution:
Resolved, Thitt the Grand Lodge of California be and· is hereby
requested to authorize and cause the name of Oceanic Lodge, No. 371,
F. & A. M., to be changed to Lodge le Pro"'"es de I 'Oceania No 371
F. & A. M.
·
·
"''
'
..
'
It is our belief that such change of name can only be effected by
an amendment to the By-Laws of t_he subordinate Lodge, anQ. no evidence has been adduced that such a course has been followed.
We, however, recommend that upon the fulfillment of the Constitutional requirements the requ~st be granted.

Respectfully submitted,

:r.

E.
RICHARDS,
. W. G. THORNALLY, JR.,
JOHN C. LANE,
WILLIAM, R. FLINT,
Committee.

Which was adopted.
Bro. J tilien E. Pardee, Chairman of the Committee on
By-Laws of Lodges, presented the follo"wing:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your Committee begs leave to report .as follows:
We have carefully examined the By-Laws of Jewel Mizpah
Veteran, Gardena, Artesia, Oceanside, Richmond, Fillmore,' Hunting'.
ton Beach and Francis Drake Lodges, all under dispensation, and find
as follows:

Hu~tington Beach, Francis Drake and Artesia Lodges have adopted
the unifor~ code of By-Laws prescribed by the Grand Lodge, .with
the ~xception that they have failed to fix the hour for stated
meetmgs.
. Oceanside, Fillmore, Mizpah and Jewel Lodges have adopted the
uniform code, but they have failed to leave room for the insertion
of amendments between the By-Laws and the signatures of members, nor have they fixed the hour of meeting. Vetera~ Lodge has
also adopted the uniform code, but has not left sufficient room for
amendments before the signatures of members.

•

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jewel Lodge has · not fully adopted Sec. 3 of Art. IX, i~ that no
period of neglect in payment of dues is specified, nor is. the mode
of reinstatement provided, i. .e., as to balloting, etc. The Imes covering the above should be inser.t ed. Neithe~ Jewel no~ Veteran.Lodg.es
have inserted the title headings of the different articles'. This omission should be corrected.
Gardena Lodge has attempted to adopt the uniform 'code, but
certain irregularities should be corrected. No hour of meeting . is
specified, nor are the title headings placed before eac.h article. Sec.
2, Art. II, is not in accordance with the uniform code, there being
omissions from the body of the article. Sec. 3, Art. IX, is not correct
in that the word ''should'' has b~en omitted from the beginning, and
the word,s "who shall have been" should be eliminated.
Richmond Lodge has adopted the uniform code except that the
hour of meeting is not specified, and there is an error in Sec. 4, Art.
IX. All of this section, commencing with the words "to that effect
at a stated meeting," etc., has been omitted.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved That when the above named Lodges under dispensation
shall have :dopted the ~iform code of By-Laws, or shall have made
amendments to those already adopted, so as to make them comply
with said code in the particulars above mentioned, that they shall
be approved and confirmed.
Your Committee has also examined the reports of amendments
made to the By-L~ws of other Lodges, and beg to report as follows:
South Gate Lodge,· No. 320; Union Lodge, No. 58, and Sequoi&6
Lodge, No. 349, have taken action seeking to provide for life-membership, pursuant to the authori~y of Sec. 1, Art. IX, of the uniform
code of By-Laws, as amended at the last session of Grand Lodge.
We find that the proceedings had by South Gate Lodge, as shown
by the certificate of the Secretary, were regular in all particulars
save one. A resolution of proper form was introduced at a stated
meeting in December, 1905, and notice thereof was mailed to each
member of the Lodge, and final action was taken at the stated meet.ing in February, 1906, but it does not appear that the resolution was
adopt~d by a two-thirds vote. The certificate simply states that the
resolution was adopted.
Your Committee understands that the adoption of such a resolution is in the nature of an amendment to the By-Laws of a Lodge, and
such being the case, Art. XIII of the uniform code applies, and it
should affirmatively appear that the resolution was adopted by a
two-thirds vote.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

453

Union Lodge, in April, 1906, adopted a resolution at a stated
meeting, by a unanimous vote, providing for life-membership. The
resolution was introduced at a previous stated meeting, and the proper
written notice given to each member of the Lodge. But the resoliition, as certified by the Secretary, is radically defectlve. It does not
comply with the requirements of the uniform code of By-Laws.
Sequoia Lodge has attempted to adopt life-membership by amending its By-Laws, but the action taken entirely fails to accomplish
the desired purpose. Instead of adopting such a resolution as the
code provides for, the Lodge attempted to adopt Sec. 1, .Art. · IX,
as am~nded by Grand Lodge. The amendment of the uniform code
by Grand Lodge in 1905 served to incorporate that amendment into
the By-Laws of each and every subordinate Lodge in this Jurisdiction, thereby making it possible for any Lodge to adopt a system of
life-membership as therein authorized, by the adoption of a resolution such as is specified in the amended section. The record from
Sequoia Lodge does not show any such resolution.
We therefore submit the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of South Gate Lodge in adopting a system of life-membership shall stand approved and confirmed from and
after the filing of evidence with the Grand Secretary that the resolution above specified, as adopted by a two-thirds vote, and that the
action of Union Lodge a,nd Sequoia Lodges ~e not · approved.
Amendments to the By-Laws of the following Lodges appear to
have been regularly adopted after due notice, viz:
"Dunsmuir," No. 297, increasing the fee for degrees; "Pentalpha," No. 202, creating an affiliation fee; "Pacific," No. 136, "Corona," No. 324; "Covina," No. 334, and "McKinley,'' No. 347,
changing the time of stated meetings.
We therefore submit the following resolution, aild recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the above named Lodges in amending
their By-Laws in the particulars specified be, and the same is, hereby
approved and co~firmed.
·
The following named Lodges have .attempted to amend their ByLaws as hereinafter stated, viz: l'La Fayette," No. 126, and
"Unity," No. 368, increasing the amount of fees for degrees; "Hanford," No. 259; "Ashlar,'' No. 30.6, and "Mill Valley,'' No. 356,
changing the time of stated meetings ..

454

455

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The action of said Lodges was taken before the :fire in April,
and the original reports thereof are not before your Committee, having been destroyed with other records of this Grand Lodge. All that
has been presented to us is brief statements from the Secretaries
of the several Lodges to the effect that the By-Laws of their Lodges
had been amended in the particulars named. It does not, therefore,
a.ffirmatively appear t~at the proceedings had were regular, in this,
that there is ·no showing as to when the amendments were proposed,
the time of :final action thereon, or the vote by which they were
adopted.

has come to the attention of your Committee that if evidence is produced it can be proven t4at the indictment against the accused was
dismissed as a consideration for the accused giving testimony for
the United States· that would convict other parties charged with the
offense for which the accused was indicted. If such evidence is produced a different result might ensue, and as .the suggestion involves
the moral turpitude of the accused, it is the opinion of your Com·
mittee that the interest. of Masonry requires a more thorough investigation than was made by Fruitvale Lodge.

We therefore submit the following resolution, and recommend its
adoption:

Your Committee therefore offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
· Resolved, That the action of Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336, acquitting
Thomas T. Burnett, be and the same is hereby set aside, and the
case returned to said Fruitvale Lodge for a new trial.

Resolved, That wlien the Lodges la11t above named shall have furnished to the Grand Secretary proper evidence that due notice was
given of the proposed amendments, and that they were adopted by
the required two-thirds vote, said amendments shall stand approved
and confirmed.
All whic.h is respectfully submitted,

Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record of the
case of Charels L. Mulholland, expelled by Lexington Lodge, No. 104,
and from which ·decision the accused has appealed to this Grand
Lodge, has had the same under consideration, and reports as follows:

JULIAN E. PARDEE,
HERBERT A. CROGHAN,
GEO. U. MOYSE,
Committee.

Which was concurred m
recommendations adopted.

The appeal .does not attack the sufficiency or truthfulness of the
testimony given .upon the trial of the case, but does attack the
Master who presided in the case, and it has come to our attention, .
outside of the record, that the Master did, after the submission of .the
case to the Commission, participate in a. discussion with the Comm:issioners as to what they should :find. Such actio'n is contri{ry to our
law, and the Master who violates his duty in such respect is subject
to the highest censure.

and the resolutions and

Bro. John A. Hosmer, Chairman of the Committee on
Grievances, presented the following reports :
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial record in the
case of Thomas T. Burnett, a non-.affiliated Mason, residing within the
jurisdiction of Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336, and acquitted by said Lodge
of charges of un-Masonic conduct preferred therein, and from which
judgment ·of acquittal the accuser has appealed, has had the same
under consideration, and report as follows:

A review of the testimony taken at the trial does not disclose
that the accused was in any way deprived of rights in its reception.
The charge is orie of -great immorality, and the testimony, covering
more than 70 pages of transcript, sustains the charge. While denied
by the accused and. the girl with whom it is alleged he is living, it is
shown, different witnesses testifying to different material facts, that
the accused, a married man with children 11 years old and u~der,
brought a nineteen-year-old girl into his house as a domestic, that
she became estranged from her parents, that he sustained seiual relations with her while his wife was living with him; the wife says the
relations brought abollt a separation of the family, that a settlement
of property was made, the wife leaving and now residing within .a

The accused was charged with the commission of a criminal of·
fense under the United States laws, and with having admitted his
eomplieity in the crime. The record shows that the accused was
indicted, and subsequently the indictment was dismissed by ~he
United States District Attorney. There is no evidence that warranted any other :finding than that made by the Commission, but it

•
•

456

457

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

short distance of her former home; that the girl is now the housekeeper of the accused, and they occupy ~is home; that he has on
several occasions .been seen with her in sexual relations on the highway and elsewhere.

cused not guilty upon the first charge and guilty upon the second
charge by a vote of 6 for and 1 against, ·and further voted that the
accused be suspended by a vote of. 4 to 3 against.

If this record of testimony was taken as given, and no claim is

made that it was not, notwithstanding the denials of the accused
and the girl, the integrity of the numerous witnesses was not attempted to be impeached by evidence that they were not worthy of
credit, and in the face of it it is inconceivable how any other finding
could have been reached than that which is recorded as the finding
of the Commission, and while the Master acted otherwise than he
should have done, the finding of the Commission is justified by the
testimony.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Lexington Lodge, No. 104, expelling
Charles L. Mulholland be, and the same is, hereby affirmed.

r
. Your Committee, to whom was referred the trial records in the
case of Lester Clay McNulty, suspended by "Berkeley Lodge, No. 3631
have had the same under consideration, and report as follows:
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct, consisting of,
first, that on or about the 5th day of November, 1905, he did attempt
unlawful and immoral carnal intercourse with one Dorothy Olsen, and
did persis"t in such attempt until frightened away by people passing
along the public· street, and second, that on or about the 16th day of·
November, 1905, when the matter set forth in the first specification
had been made public through San Francisco and other newspapers,
and when he was visited at his home by a delegation of his Masonic
brethren for· the purpose of ascertaining the facts in the case, and
with a view of rendering him such fraternal aid and advice as might
b e deemed proper, he did then and there absolutely and repeatedly
deny that he was the person complained of, or that he had any knowledge of the matter referred to. All of which denials were false and
calculated to deceive and mislead his brethren, who were seeking in
a fratel'nal way to aid him. All of · which has tended to and has
brought scandal and disgrace upon himself in particular and upon the
body of Masonry in general.
Upon the trial of these charges the Commissioners found the ac-

The :first specification was submitted upon the testimony of. the
accused given upon the trial of criminal charge pending against him
in the Superior Court of Alameda County. From that testimony it
appears that the accused and one Dorothy Olsen were passengers on
a Telegraph avenue car from Oakland to BerkelV on the night of
November 5, 1905. That during the trip on several occasions the
aecused and Dorothy Olsen exchanged looks, that she left the car at
Stuart street in Berkeley, and immediately tnereafter the accused
left the car. That the girl looked back towards him, and he accosted
her with the remark, ''Good evening, how do you do this evening,''
and he b elieves she said, "Good evening" to him. That after a remark about its being w,in<ly, he ask.ed her if she did not want" to take
a little walk, and · does not know if she made a reply. That he then
put his right arm around her and they started down Stuart street.
After proceeding possi]?ly 25 feet, at her invitation, they sat down
upon a coping at t he line of the sidewalk. After sitting down upon
the coping he took his arm from around her waist and put it around
her neck, and put his left on her breast, she shoving it gently away,
and then ·put it back again, when he does not think she shoved it
away. After some conversation as to wher.e she liveq, .he laid her
back upon th.e lawn inside the coping, without force and assumed a
reclining position by her, and while there fondled her and was loving
her there for a little while. This matter subsequently became a
orimi!'.lal charge, and while in the position related, the girl stated
'·.Look out, some one is coming. I hear some one,'' and began to
cry out. The following questions w ere asked and answers given:
Q. Did you or did you not at any time during the encounter that
night intend to commit an act of sexual intercourse with this woman
by forcef A. I did not, sir. Q. Or against her will or without her
eonsentf A. No, sir. Q. Was 'it or was it not your intention to
induce her to consent to such act _if you could~ A. Yes, sir.
In view of this testimony, your Committee believe the acts of the
accused were grossly immoral and that the first specification of the
.charges ~as strictly proven, and should have been so found by the
llommission.
We therefore offer the
adoption:

followin~

resolution and recommend its

.Resolved, That the action of Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, acquitting
Lester Clay McNulty of the charge contained in the first s.Peci:fication
20

459

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

· against him in said Lodge be and the same is hereby reversed, and
the said Lester Clay McNulty be and he is hereby expelled from all
th e rights and privileges of . Masonry.

With the assistance of the California Promotion Committee, ac-·
tll(lmmodations were secu!ed foJ t~ree hundred and eighty-five; but as
many members had made their own arrangements, the · committe~ was
called upon to provide for only two hundred.

458

Respectfully submitted,

•

JNO. A. HOSMER,
J. A. MURPHEY,
ALBERT NORRIS,
E. E. SELPH,
Committee.

The thanks of the Grand Lodge are due to the California Promotion Committee for its invaluable :issistance.
·The expenses attendant upon. the work of the Committee are as
follows :

All which were concurred m an·d the resolutions . and
recommendations adopted.

Automobile hire .......... .. ......... .. .................... $147 50
Buggy hire .................. ., ........................ ; . . .
2 50
Services of assistants in selecting rooms, advertising etc.. . . . . 122 00

Bro. E. E. Stone, from tlie Committee on Finance, presented the following:

Total expenses ..................................... $272 00

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Finance, to whom was referred· the report of.
the Special Committee on the Grand L ecturer's report, ha~e had the
same under consideration, and beg to report as follows, viz:
·'
Your Committee desires, first, the expression of this Grand Lodge
as to whether or not it desires the Grand Lecturer to devote his entire
time and att~ntion to the duties of said office.
Second, If so, shall the present system of district inspection· be
continued.
Your Committee cannot determine the proper compensation for the
Grand Lecturer until this Grand Lodge shall have decided the above
questions.
Respectfully submitted,

JACOB HART NEFF,
ELMER E. STONE,
P. M. GOLDARACENA,
THOS HEYDENFELT,
LEON YOUNGWORTH,
Committee.

liespectfully submitted,
JOHN TON r..'INGSEN, Chairman.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance :
M. :. W. :. James B. . Stevens, from the Committee on
Jlfisprudence, presented the following:
To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee have had under consideration "that portion of the
address of the Grand Master relating to dispensations granted during
the year, and respectfully report as follows:
We find that one dispensation was for permission to elect ·a Master,
one to elect a Junior Warden, and eight to re-ballot upon rejected
applications for the degrees. ·
We also find that in all cases our Grand Master has acted in
aceordance with the ·Constitution, and in strict conformity with our
usages.
We recommend that his action be approved.
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
J. B. STEVENS,
THOS. FLINT,
C. W. NUTTING,
C. J. CULLY,
Committee

Both which questions were answered m the affirmative.
Bro. John Tonningsen presented the following:
To the M .: .. w.:: Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., of California:
Your Com.mittee appointed by the Grand Master to secure accom.modations tor the members of the Grand Lodge during the present
session, having performed that duty, submit the following report:

Which was adopted.

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

M. :. W. :. William S. Wells, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following reports :

M. :. W. :. Frank M. Angelotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following :

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:

To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consid.e ration
that portion .of the address of the M.:. W.:. Grand Master relative to
the decision rendered by him -Upon questions of Masonic law. It is
~ident that the Grand Master has given very careful consideration
to this portion of his work, and his conclusions are irr the main fully
in accord with our view as to the law obtaining in this Jurisdiction.
...n only one or two particulars do we deem any modification necessary.

1:our Committee, to whom was referred the resolution offered.by
P. G. M. Patton at the Annual Communication of 1905, relative to the
discontinuance of the Representative system, have had the same under
consideration, and report as follows:
The custom of appointing Representatives to and from other
(;i-rand Lodges is an ancient one, still in force in almost all the Grand
Jurisdiction; some few, however, have discontinued and abolished
same.
We see no· reason at the present time for any change on the p~rt.
of .our Grand Lodge in regard to this matter, and believe it under all
circumstances to be undesirable, and therefore recommend that the
system be continued in force as heretofore.
Your C<_>mmittee, to whom was referred the resolution relative to
the exeI?ption of Masons over seventy years of age from the payment of dues, have had the same under consideration, and report as
follows:
Every Mason, whether old or young, if able, should bear his proportio.n of the burdens of his Lodge and pay his dues; if not able it
becomes the duty of the Lodge to see that his dues are remitted and
the brother kept in st.anding.
The resolution would, in effect, create a life membership, and we
deem it unwise to enlarge in any way our present system. and the
objects sought to be accomplished by the resolution can now be accomplished by the action of the Lodges under ·the present laws.

461

The Grand Master was asked to determine the status in this Juris:
diction of a brother who was a Past Master of a Lodge in a foreign
9risdiction, and had thereafter affiliated with a Lodge in California.
Is he a Past Master in California, with the rights and privileges of a·
Past Master, including the right to be carried on the rolls of the California Lodge as a Past Master, and also the ·right of membership in
the Grand Lodge J He was also a.sked to determine the same question
as to one who had acquired the rank of Past Master by service in a
r;Jalifornia Lodge, and who had dimitted therefrom and affiliated with
another California Lodge, of which he is still a member. He answered
these ques~ions in both caiies in the affirmative. We have no doubt as
to the correctness of the decision so far as the brother who had become a Past Master by service in a Lodge ·in this Jurisdiction is conee:rned; but it appears to us to be incorrect as to the brother whose
only service as Master was in a foreign jurisdiction. The whole matter is covered by the express language of our Constitution, where, in
Art. II of Part VII, under the head of "Definitions,'.' we find the
,ollowing: ·
·

0

We therefore· report the resolution back with the recommendation
that it be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WIL_LIAM S. WELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

Both which were adopted.

"Past Master.- This title applies only to one who has been' r egularly elected or named in a charter and installed, and has served a
term as Master of a chartered Lodge wit:tJin the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge, and who remains a member in good standing of one of
its subordinates.''
This provision is, of course, .controlling as to the meaning of the
term "Past Master" wherever it is used in our Constitution. Only
those who come within its t erms can be held to be entitled· to the
rank and privileges of a Past Master in California, and one whose
only service as Master was in a Lodge of another jurisdiction, is
pl11-inly not within its terms.
we therefore recommend that this decision be modified to conform
to these views.

402

463

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Grand Master was also asked as to the status of a Mason
under the following conditions: He is a member of one of ou~
Lodges, and while such member, without first withdrawing from his
Lodge, applies, under Sec. 8, Art I, Part V, for affiliation with another
Lodge, upon a certificate of his standing in the Lodge ·of which he is
a member. He is elected to membership in the Lodge to which he.
applies. When does he cease to be a ntember of his old Lodgef When
does he commence to be a member of the new Lodge to which he is
eiected f when does his liability for dues in the old Lodge end f ,and
when does his liability for dues begin in the 'new Lodgef The Constitution provides in the section just cited: "If such appli~ant be
elected to affiliate with a I,odge, he can become a member thereof,
only by filing with the Secretary, at a stated meeting, the certificate
of his withdr8;wal from the Lodge of which he was last a member.'"

In regard to the question presented to the Grand Master as to the
right of a Lodge. to pay ~rom ~dgf;l funds for services rendeted by a
JNoother in assistmg candidates m the work and. lectures of the first
and second degrees, we are of the opinion that' the Grand Master's
view that no such use can be made of lodge funds, under our existing
law is correct. It is · the settled law of this Jurisdiction that the
fun:ls of a lodge are dedicated solely to charitable purposes, and the
aecessary expenses of the Lodge, the only exception . being that provided by General. Regulation 57, under which not to exceed five (now
ten) per cent of the yearly revenue may be used for purposes of refhshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse. The proposed
~nditure is not, in our judgment, within any class of expendit,ures
now authorized. It is, of course, within the power of this Grand Lodge
to authorize subordinate Lodges to expend a· portion of their .funds
for 'the purpose, just as it has authorized such an expenditure for
furposes of refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse.
Whether· it would be for the best interests of Masonry that this
should be done is a question of policy for the Grand Lodge . to determine, and as to which we make no recommendation. If it be desired
to do this, it can be done by a regulation authorizing the expenditure,
and it will not be necessary to create any new office in the Lodge or
to amend the by-laws.

It is clear that the mere election of the brother to membership in
the new Lodge under these circumstances in no way affects his standing as a member of the old Lodge. He continues a member of the
old Lodge and liable for all dues that may accrue until such time as
he formally withdraws therefrom, which he may do, undei;. section 6
of 'the same article, by giving notice of his intention so to do at a
stated meeting, whe.n , he being· in good standing, and his dues being
paid, he will receive a certificate of withdrawal or dimit. From that
moment he is not a member of any Lodge until he becomes a member
of another Lodge, and he can become a member of the new Lodge to
which he has been elected only upon filing such certificate of withdrawal or dimit with the Secretary thereof at ~ stated ·meeting. :ijis
dues in the new Lodge. do not commence to accrue until such filing of
the certificate. During the time that may elapse before his withdrawal from the old Lodge and the filing of his certificate of withdrawal o.r dimit in the new Lodge, he, not being a member of any
Lodge, is not liable for dues to any L~dge. The certificate of standing or membership contained in the Grand Master's decision, and
taken by him from Anderson's Manual, at page 77, we find on investigation has never been adopted as a part of our Constitution or law,
and is no part thereof . As we understand the Grand Master's decision, he ruled that the ·brother was liable to the old Lodge for such
dues as might accrue to the time when he formally withdrew therefrom, and such ruling is strictly in accord with our law, and we recommend that it b e approved. We have discussed· this matter .at
length for the purpose of making clear the status of the brother from
the time of his withdrawal to the time of filing his certificate of
withdrawal with the Secretary of the new Lodge, a matter that does
not appear to be explicitly covered by the decision of the Grand
Master.

The decision of the Gi.-and Master relative to the right to use wine
at a banquet held outside of the lodge-room, where such wine is paid
for otherwi1le than fro~ lodge funds, is in accord with our existing
written law on the subject. The only written prohibition now in our
law is as to the payment for spirituous, malt or fermented liquor from
lodge funds. It has also been decided that it is contrary to Masonic
usage to serve such liquors in a Masonic hall. If it be desired to
prohibit the use of such liquors at any Masonic banquet or ·gathering,
wherever held, a regulation to that effect will accomplish the desired
purpose.
The various other decisions rendered, including that in regard to
life membership, are clearly in accord. with our law, and do not
tequire special mention. W e recomin:end that they be approved.
Bespec~fully submitted,

FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WILLIAMS. WELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W . NUTTING,
Committee.

.

.

•

4G4

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

All which were concurred m and the· recommendations
adopted.

M." . w:. Frank M. Angellotti, Chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following:

Bro. Angellotti also presented the following:
Your Committee have had under consideration the matter of proposed lEgislation looking to the keeping secret the names of bi:ethren
appointed on committees on investigation, referred to them at the
last Communic.a tion.
A careful examination of our constitutional prov1s1ons and further consideration of the subject have satisfied us that the resoh1tion
introduced at that Communication by Bro. Jas. W. Anderson is en·
tirely consistent with ail existing law on the subject, and goes as far
in the direction proposed as is advisable. That resolution was as
follows, viz:
"Resolved, That the reports of Committee on Investigation ap:
p~inted on the petition of applicants for the degrees of Masonry~ or

for applications, shall not be read in the Lodges, except so far as the
announcement of the character of the report is concerned; nor shall
the names of the brethren appointed on such committees be announced
in the Lodge.''
We now see no objection to this resolution, and report it to the
Grand Lodge for euch action as it may deem proper.

Which was concurred in .and the original resolution
embodied in· above was adopted.

•

465

PROCEEDINGS OF TRI<.:

Bro. W. Frank Pierce presented the followin~ :
Resolved, That a committee of three Past Grand Masters be appointed to prepare suitable resolutions expressing the gratitude of
this Grand Lodge to the Order of Knights Templar which contributed
so generously for the relief of our brethren who suffered by the terrible calamity which recently visited this Jurisdiction; that these
resolutions also b e prin.te d in the transactions and .b e· sent to the
Grand Master of the Grand Encampment and through him to the
several Grand C:ommanderies.

And the Grand Master named the following Past Grand
Masters to constitute such committee: M. :. W. :. Frank M.
Angellotti, M.". w:. William S. ~Velis a·nd l\f.". w:. James
B. Stevens.

T.o the M .:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee have had under consideration the recommendation of the Grand Maste.r that our Constitution be amended so as. to
authorize the issuance by him of a dispensation for a new Lodge
without the r ecommendation of the nearest or most convenient chartered Lodge, when such Lodge, aft er request, refuses t o grant such
recommendation, and the Grand Master, after investigation, considers
it· proper ·that such dispensation should issue. The restriction. upon
the power of the Grand Master to issue a dispensati<in for a n ew
Lodge without the recommendation of the nearest or most convenient
chartered Lodge, has been a part of our fundamental law for many
years, and has always been considered a wise and necessary provision
for the protection of existing Lodges. Doubtless, t h ere may have
been cases where the recommendation of the nearest or most convenient chartered L odge has b een withheld without good r eason, but we
do n~t think that this demands the practical abolition of what was
considererl a necessary safeguard by the framers of our Constitution,
and this would be the effect of the amendment recommended. It
often happens that a good and necessary 1aw works injustice in 11.
particular instance, but this is not a good r eason for the practical
repeal of the law. On the whole, doubtless the provision in question
has worked for tne general good of Masonry in this Jurisdiction. If
any change at all in the direction suggested is to be made t o meet
exceptional cases, w e are of the opinion that the change should not
authorize the issuance of a dispensation without the consent of the
nearest or most convenient chartered Lodge, except under direction
of the Grand L9dge itl!elf, given aft er notice to such Lodge that such
relief will be sought and an opportunity to such Lodge to be heard
thereon. ·
R espectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WILLIAM S. WELLS,
JAMES B. STEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

Which was re-referred to the committee, with instruc·
tions to prepare and submit an amendment to Sec. 2 , Art.
I, Part ·III, of the Constitution, . which it did as follows:
Amend Sec. 2, Art. 1, Part III, of the Constitution, adding, after
the words "the lectures thereunto appertaining":

466

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

''Provided, always, that whenever the nearest or most convenient
chartered Lodge refuses to grant its recommendation, the Grand
Master may, if after full investigation he deems it to be for the best
interests of Masonry, grant such dispensation without any such recommendation having been given."

Which was unanimously adopted.
The resolution presented by Bro. Billings, relative to
the purchase of stock by Lodges, was reported adversely
by the Jurisprudence Committee and was rejected by the
Grand Lodge.
The proposed amendment to General Regulation. No.
57, presented by Bro. Butcher, was not concurred in by the
Jurisprudence Committee, but on motion it was ordered
• that the Regulation be -a mended by substituting the word
ten in lieu of the word five.
The Grand Lodge was then . called off until ten o'clock
to-morrow morning.

3Ju (l;rauh iJnhgr.
Morning Session,
Friday, October 12th, A. L. 5906.
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
•
The M. :. W. :. Samuel C. Denson appeared and took his
seat.
On inotion, General Regu.lation No. 20 wa$ suspended,
and the election of Grand Officers was made the ~pecial
order for eleven o'clock this forenoon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.·

467

The M. :. W. :. ·Orrin S. Henderson presented the following : To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Your Masonic Temple Committee bas had little opportunity to formulate a plirn· for the erectio11 of a n ew Masonic Temple. From the
facts before us, we respectfully report:
That in order to a·c quire the land and erect a Temple, it. will be
·necessary ~o organize a corporation, with full .power to carry out the
purposes of this Grand Body.
·
We think the new organization should be. under the control of this
Grand Body; and the stock . be owned exclusively by the Grand Lodge
and other Masonic Associations of California.
The Directorate should be made large enough to permit a representation in the Board of all Masonic Bodies who may subscribe to
stock, and the various Masonic Lodges and Bodies should be invited
to assist in making our new home an imposing Masonic landmarkone of which every Mason would be proud.
To that end this Co=ittee, or some other committee, appointed
by this Grand Body, should be authorized to carefully prepa~e a plan
for, and organize a corporation with full power and aut.hon~y to do
all things· nt'lcessary to acquire and hold the land, .and bmld an appropriate Masonic Temple thereon, and, under the guidance of this Grand
Body, control and manage the same.
When such plan is formulated it shouid be submitted to and approved of by the first four officers of this ?rand ~odge b~fore the
corporation is organized. When the latter is organized, before any
Temple site is purchased, it should be submitted to, and approved of,
by such officers, and then the Grand Master and Grand Treasurer
should be authorized, out of the funds of this Grand Body, to advance
a sum not exceeding two hundred and ten thousand dollars, to be
used in the purchase of a site, and the erection of a suitable Temple
thereon.
Said corporation should also have power, by and with th_e consent
and approval of the said _first four officers, ~f dee.med necessary to
complete the Temple, to create and incur a bonded mdebtedness. The
plans for the building should also be submitted to said officers and
approved of by them before being finally agreed upon.

Which was concurred m and the present committee
continued.

468

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

. PROCEEDm~
. '
.
. OF. .THE
~

Bro, Henderson also presented the following:
. Resolved, That the action 01\ the M.:. W.:. Grand }4aster in agree-·
mg to the sale of the stock in the Masonic Hall Association of San
Francisco, belonging to this Grand Lodge, be and· the same is hereby
approved, and the incoming. Gi:and Master is aathorized and directed
to complete such sale and receive the money therefor, and pay it to
the Treasurer.
0

Resolved, That when the Committee on the ' Erection of the New
Temple, appointed at this session, shall have, by and with the approval of the first four officers of this Grand Lodge, organized a corporation to, purchase a lot and construct a new Temple, and shall
have, with like approval, selected a suitable site for such Temple,
then the M.:. W.:. Grand Master and V.:. W. :. Grand Treasurer are
~uthorized to subscribe for and ta~e stock in. such corporation for this
Grand Body to the amount of two hundred and ten thousand dollars,
and pay therefor .o ut of any money b elonging to this Grand Lodge.
Resolved, That the plans for a Masonic Temple to oe erected on
the lot so acquired shaH be submitted to and, approved by said first
four officers. ·
.
Resolved, That the M.:. W.:. Grand Master, and in his absence, the
R.:. W.:. Deputy Grand Master, shall have the right to represent and.
vote the stock so subscribe_d for, at any meeting of said' corporatio~,
and to generally guide and direct all proceedings in connection with
the erection of said Temple. ,

Which was concurred in and the resolutions adopted.
Br?. William P. ,foi4°r.er, Chairman of the Committee on
Pay of Members, pr,e~ep,ted the following report:Your co~mittee, charg.e'd with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
St~te to the place of meeting of tbe 'Grand Lodge and return and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the' Officers
or Representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the
Gra,nd Officers, Chairmen of Standing Committees, and Inspectors, for
their necessary expenditure for transportation to and from the Grand
Lodg~, report that they havf.!'. carefully discharged that duty, and
submit the following statement:
GRAND OFFICERS.
Motley H. Flint, Grand Master, Los Angeles ................ $
Osc:ir Lawler, Grand Orator, Los Angeles .... ...... ... , .. . . ·
Charles D. Barnett, Grand Marshal, Santa Rosa . .. .. :......

35 00
35 oo
.3 00

Chauncey c. Bush, Gr. Bible Bearer; Redding .. , .. : .... .. . .
Albert L. Reed, Gr. Sword Bearer, Suisun ..... . .... .... ,····
Samuel Prager, Gr. Standard Bearer, Los Angeles .. .. · .. ····
Thomas J. Baker, Sen. Grand Deacon, Sacramento .... .. . .. ·
Adelb't W . Davidson, Jun. Grand Deacon, Stockton . ... . . . .
Emil Meybem, Sen. Grand Steward, Chico ....... . ... · . · · · · ·
Joseph R. Garthside, Grand Pursiytant, Pomona . .. ·········

469
18 00
3 40
35 00
5 00
11 80
37 00

CHAIRMEN OF STANDING COMMITTEES.
Frank M. Angellotti, Jurisprudence, San Rafael ... ... . ... . ·
William P. Jeffries, Returns, Los Angeles .... · . · · · · · · · · · · · ·

70
35 00

INSPECTORS.
Alonzo J. Monroe, 1st District, Eureka ..... . : .. . ... · · ·
Thomas J. Richards, 2nd District, Mendocino· · · . · · · · · · · · · ·
:}6 60
uharles W. Nutting, 3rd District, Etna Mills ... ······ · · ·· ··
Edward Sweeny, 4.th Dis~rict, Redding .... . . .. · · . · · · · · · · · · ·
51 10
Ernest C. Bonner, 5th District, Alturas . . ... ·. ·.··········
Isaac F. Moffitt, 6th District, Corning ....... : .. ·.·:· . ·· · ···
Julien E. Pardee, 7th District, Susanville ..... . ·.·.········
James O. Moncur, 8th District, Quincy . .. ... ············ · ··
John M . Mussey, 9th DiRtrict, La Porte . ...... · . ·.··· · ····
27 00
Eliphalet L. Case, 10th Distriet, Downieville. · · · · . · · · · · · · · · ·
Gaines L. Coats, 11th District, Sierr.aville ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
'48 10
John D. ·Murphey, 12th District, B,,ridgeport . .. · ·. · · · · · · · · · ·
wm. E . Meservey, 13th District, Nevada City .. · ... · ·· .. ,, ·
Michael D. Lininger, 14th District, Auburn. ; . . ·. · · .·· ·· ··· ·
Emil Mayhem, 15th District, Chico . ... .... · · . · · · · · ·" · · · · ·. ·
Jay W. Ashley, 16th District, Yuba City ... ,, . . ··. ···· · · ·
Jefferson D. Danner, 17th District, Willows ... , .. . . ,· · " · · ·
Rob 't L . :Hutchinson, 18th District, Ukiah .......... · · · · · · · ·
·10 00
Curtis J'. Monroe, 19th District, Lakeport ...... · . · . · · · · · · · · ·
4 50
John H. Gunn, 20th District, Healdsburg .... ·.·.··.,.·· ·· ···
Alexander McDaid, 21st District, Vallejo ... · . · . · . · · · · · · · · ·
Levi Nuttall, 22nd District, Sacramento ...... · . · . · · · · · · · · ·
6 20
Byron Ball 23rd District, Woodland . ...... · · · ,. · · · · · · · · · · ·
Max Miers~n 24th Diaifict, Placerville . . · · . · .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
10 00
James E. D;e, 25th District, Jackson ...... ···:··· ···· :· ·· ·
John T. Porter, 26th Distric.t, Angels' Camp . . · . , .·· · ···· · ·
Carlton
Case, 2nii District, Stockton ... ... · ·. · · · · ·.· · · · : ·
2 00
Louis N . Buttner, 28th District, Port Costa . . · . · ·· ···· ···· ·
J. R. B. Chisholm,. 29th District, Benicia ..... ; . · . · · · : • · · · · · ·
2 50
Smythe, 33rd District;• San ·Jose. .. ; ···· · .... "····· ·
Delos
Francis A. Abbott, 34th District, Salinas . . ; . · . . · · · · · · · · · · · · ·

c:

w.

470

John S_. Larew, 35th District, Mariposa ............... . ... .
William D. Logan, 36th District, Knight's Ferry ...... .. .. .
66 00
Guy P. Doyle, 37th District, Bishop . . ... . . . ......... . : .. :
James C. Pottle, 38th District, Fresno . ...... . ..... . .. .. .. .
Frank W. Robinson, 39th District, Bakersfield ... . . . ....... :
11 80
Adam Brown, 40th District, Arroyo Grande ............... . ' 16 90
David J. Reese, 4l~t District, Ventura .. . .............. . ... .
35 00
,"fames B. Gist, 42nd District, Los Angeles ................. .
35 00
Dana R. Weller, 43rd Dis.trict, Los Angeles ............ , ... .
35 00
Henry Ramel, 44th District, Pasadena: ............... . ... .
·....
Charles E. Mitchell, 45th District, Long Beach ....... . ... .
Philip H . Kreck, 46th District, Anaheim .......... . .... .. .
Joseph R. Frith, 47th District, San Bernardino ..... ... .... . 38 50
Eli T. Blackmer, 48th District, San Diego ........... .. ... .
George F . Rodden, 52nd District, San Rafael. ............. .
70
RodHick G. Guyett, 53rd District, Palo Alto .. . .. . . . . ... . . .
1 90
35 00
John H . Bean, 54th District, Los Angeles .. . . ... . . .. . . , .. .
Joseph R. Garthside, 55th District, Pomona ........... .. : , .
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles ............ . ... .

..

Total. .......... ... ........... ... ........... .. . . . .

- 47l

GRA}l"D LODGE OF CALIFOBNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$-l7:J 81)

Recapit1'.lation.
*For Representatives of Lodges .....•................. . . . . $4,637 20
For Grand Officers. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
183 20
}'or Chairmen of Standing Committ~es .. . .. :·. . . . . . . . . . . .
35 70
}'or Inspectors ........ .. .... . ...................... , . . .
4 73 80
Grand Total ................................... . ... $5,329 90
*For items see pages 427-434.
Your Committee offer the following reaolution and recommend its
adoption :
Resolved, .That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of this
jurisdiction for the current fiscal year, in addition to the dues prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of twenty cents for each member
borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports.
Said levy . shall be for the payment of Representatives, and shall
be paid at the same time and in the manner prescribed for the payment of the annual dues.
Your committee desire to express their appreciation of valuable
assistance rendered by Representatives and Inspectors, in enabling

it to arrive !lt the actual facts regarding the cost of transportation
of the Representatives to and from the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted, ·
.
WM. P. FILMER,
H . D. KERCHEVAL,
AMOS STEVENS,
THEO. J. MILLIKEN,
R. - E. HARTLEY,
Committee.

Which was concurred in and the resolution adopted.
Bro. Albert Norris, from the Committee on Grievances,
presented the following reports :To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:. At the last Regular Communication of this Grand Lodge the following named Lodges were directed to proceed to the trial of the
following cases, respectively returned to them for new trial: And in
the cases of the first two mentioned they were specially directed to
make report of their proceedings in said cases at the next Annual
Communic~tion of this Grand Lodge (Gran.d Lodge Proceedings for
1905, page 125) to wit:
Charles Watson Coggins, expelled by "Sisson" Lodge, No .. 310.
Georg!l 'Fhayer Greenleaf, expelled by "Redlands" Lodge, No. 300.
Arthur James C!!-mp, suspended by "Anchor" Lodge, No. 273,
In none of these cases have returns of trials b een made to this
Grand Lodge, nor has any explanation been made as to why the directions of this Grand Lodge in respect to said c.ases have not b een
COJ:!lplied with.
0

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the several Lodges hereinbefore mentioned are
hereby censured for neglect of duty in failing to comply with the
directions of ·this Grand Lodge in the respective cases.

Your committee, having had under consideration the matter of the
trial of Bro. Atkinson by "Tehachapi " Lodge, No. 313, respectfully
report as follows:
•
The procedure seems· to be regular, but upon the trial _no testimony was introduced except two letters, which were written before

473

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the charges were .Preferred, and we are of the opinion that such
letters were not legal evidence or were intended to be used in the
trial by the writers of such letters, and much of the testimony in
. such letters, if it could be admitted at all, was purely hearsay.

Angeles, Sacramento and San Diego, and offer the following resolution,
and recommend its adoption:

472

It is also doubtful in our minds whether the spe<;ifications state
a Masonic offerise.

The charge was drunkenness, and while it is a serious offense, yet
it should be fully proven.
We therefore prop.ose the following resolution and rec<lmmend its
acloption:
·
Resolved, That the action of "Tehachapi" Lodge, No. 313, in
expelling i:ro. Atkinson be, and the same is, hereby reversed.

Your committee has received from the Grand Secretary trial
records in the following cases, now on file in his office:
J. J . Hagerty, s.u spended by "Vacaville" Lodge, on September
28th, 1906.
Barton Willard Johnson, expelled by "Truckee" Lodge, No. 200,
on September 12th, 1906.
Your committee have made no report in either of these cases, for
the reason that the judgments in both cases were rendered within
the last thirty days, and the time within which the accuse.d may
appeal to the Grand Lodge has not yet expired.
Respectfully submitted,
JNO. A. HOSMER,
J. D. MURPHEY,
AL~ERT NORRIS,
E. E. SELPH,
. Committee.

All which were concurred m and the resolutions were
adopted.

Resolved, That the sum of $6,000 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as follows, viz:
$3,000 to the Board of Relief of San Francisco, Cal.
$3,000 to the Board of Relief ·of Los Angeles, Cal.
In regard to the General Board ot Relief, your committee have
examined the same and believe that all matters upon which they
have acted have been carefully administered, and recommend that
all funds in the hands of the retiring Grand Master, contributed for
relief, be turned over to the incoming Grand Master, and that all
matters connected therewith be placed in his hands with full power
to a ct.
We havo had under consideration the salaries of the Grand Officers
of the Grand Lodge, and report thereon as follows, and recommend its
adoption:
·
For the salary of the Grand Treasurer .... .. ...... . ..... ... $ 200 00
For the salary of the Grand Secretary .................... . 3,000 00
For the salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary ..... .. . : .. . 1,800 00
For the salary of the Grand Organist ............. .. ...... .
50 00
For the services of the Grand Tyler ....................... . 125 00
For the services of the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence ............. . .................... .. .... .. . 200 00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used in
defraying of actual expenses incurred, and to be paid in
equal quarterly installments if required ......... ... ... . 1,200 00
For the salary of the Grand Lectul'er .................... . 2,400 00
For expert accountant of. Finance Committee ..... . ....... . 100 00
No amount has been designated for the contingent expenses of the
Grand Lecturer, your committee were unable to determine the amount
required, ·but recommend that the Grand Lecturer file with the Grand
ljlecretary an itemized account of his actual expenses,~ incurred in
the discharge of his duties, said account, when presented, to be
audited by the Committee on Accounts.

Bro. Elmer E. Stone, from the Committee on Finance,
presented the following r~ports h .T~ the M.:. w.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your committee beg leave to report as follows:
We have received a:nd carefully considered the reports of theBoards of Relief from the · dtie·s ·of San Francisco, Oaldand, Los

Your committee, to whom was referred the request. of the Masons
of Manila to form a Masonic Board of Relief, have carefully considered the same, and find that they have complied with the requirements of this Grand Lodge ancl have adopted a set of By-Laws for
21

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the governing of said Board of . R elief. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $350 b4: and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge and made payable to the Masonic
Board_' of Relief of Manila, when said Board of Relief shall have
completed its organization.

We are of the opinion that this request should be granted and
offer the following r esolution, and r ecommend its adoption:

Your committee, to whom was referred the resolution requesting
an appropriation of $250 for the Representative of "Manila" Lodge,
who is in attendance upon this Grand Lodge, find it impossible to
grant this r equest. Owing to Regulation 12 ~f this Grand Lodge,
which provides as follows:
''No Lodge under this jurisdiction,
located beyond the limits of this State, shall receive any allowance
for the expenses of a Representative of this Grand Lodge, nor shall
any such Lodge be chargeable with dues on a ccount of the Representative Fund.

The claim for the expenses incurred by the Committee on Accommodations, which was referred to this committee, has been considered,
and we offu the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $272 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Gran<l Lodge, payable to Bro. John Tonningsen, Chairman of the Committee on Accommodations, for payment
of expenses incurred by said committee.

In the matter of the claim of the Deputy Grand Master, Edward
H. Hart, for money expended for traveling expenses while in discharge of his duties as an officer of this Grand Lodge, we offer the
following resolution. and r ecommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $50.90 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Deputy Grand
Master Hart for expenses incurred in traveling to Fresno, M erced
and Bakersfield, while in discharge of his duties as a Grand Officer
of this. Grand Lodge.

"George Washington" Lodge, ;No. 62, having suffered the loss
of their pi::operty by fire, has requested the remission of its Grand
Lodge dues . .

475

Resolved, That the dues o.f "G(!orge Washington " L odge, N o. 62,
for the year 1906, be and the same are hereby remitted.

In the matter of the petitio11. of ''La Parfaite Union'' Lodge,
No. 17, F. & A. ' M., of San Francisco, asking fo.r a remission of their
Grand Lodge dues, your committee have made a very careful examination of the financial condition of said Lodge and find that it has
assets in the sum of $7,110, and cash on deposit in various banks
IPJJ.Ounting to $2,000. Upon this financial showing your committee
teeommends that the petitiol). for a remission of "La Parfaite Union"
Lodge Grand Lodge's dues b e denied.
We respectfully r.ecommend that our retiring Grand Ma8ter,_Motley
H. Flint, be and he is hereby r equest ed to ·sit for his portrait, and
tbat the Grand S ecretary be and he is hereby instructed to have said
tortrait, when finished, suitably framed and placed 'in the office of
the Grand Secretary .

We have conferred wit h the Chairman of t he Board of Trustees
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home, and hav e given the
affairs of said institution thorough consideration; as r esult of which
we offer the following resolution and recommend its adopt ion :

a

Resolved, That a per capita tax of $1 pE:r year b e levied upon
the subordina t e Lodges of this jurisdiction, a n d said tax to b e due
and payable to this Grand· Lodge in the same manner and a t t he
same time as the annual Grand Lodge dues; and that said per capita
tax, when receiv ed by the Grand Lodge, be placed in the fund designated Widows ' and Orphans' Home Fund, subject to t he order of
the Board of Trustees _o f said Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Horne,
and to be used for the support and maintenance of said H Gme.

We herewith submit reports of our expert accountant a:. reports of
this committee upon the books of account and vouchers of the Grand
llecretary, Grand Treasurer and Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Widows ' and Orphans' Home, respectively. Said r eports are as
follows:

476

477

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE ·oF CALIFORNIA.

To the Finance Committee of the
M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of California:Sirs and BrethrenHerewith please find report of my examination of the books anu
vouchers of Grand Secretary George Johnson and Grand Treasurer
Edward Coleman.

L:idges subordinate to this jurisdiction, and find returns from all
Lodges in this jurisdiction. Total amount received, $73,264.35, distributed as follows, viz:·

Have checked all ·returns from Lodges in this jurisdiction for
the Masonic year ending July 31st, 1906; compared stubs of receipts
sent Secretaries for inoneys received from them for account . o'f this
Grand Lodge; also checked the books and vouchers for money paid
by Grand Secretary George Johnson to Grand Treasurer Edward
Coleman; compared the warrants drawn for payments, and I find
vouchers properly numbered and filed for every dollar disbursed a~
per books just examined.

Total. .................. . ..... .. .................. $73,264 35

THE GRAND TREASURER IN ACCOUNT WITH THE GRAND
LODGE, F. & A. M.
Receipts.
To cash received from Secretary, General Fund ............ $39,495 35
To cash from dividend Hall Stock........................ 5,881 00
'l:o cash, sale of book, diplomas, etc. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,177 00
To cash, dividends Blue Lake Water Bonds...............
420 00
To cash froni A. Borel, interest on deposits................
266 iii.
Total receipts ............... .. ............... ... .. $47,239 56
Disbursements.
As per warrants drawn on· the Grand Treasurer, viz:
Sundry expenditures, per vouchers on file with Grand Secretary Johnson .......•............................... $33,056 22
Representatives, as per payroll . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,550 10
Appointed Grand Officers and Chairmen Standing Commit280 40
tees as per payroll ............ .. : ...... . ... . .. . .... ·.. .
780 40
Inspectors as per . payroll .............................. .
10 00
Harry S. Johnson, assistant to Grand Secretary ........... .
•rotal disbursements .... .' ....... . ....... . ....... . .. $38,677 12
I have examined the Grand Treasurer's account and certify the
same correct.
After closing my examination of the books and vouchers of Grand
Secretary Johnson and Grand Treasurer Coleman for the Masonic
fiscal year ending July 31st, 1906, I tabulated the returns for the
ensuing Masonic year, received ·by the Grand Secretary from .the

Passed to the credit of the General Fund ................. $39,495 35
Pa6sed to the credit of the Home Fund ........... . ....... 33,769 00

SUMMARY OF CASH IN TREASURY.
Receipts.
1906.
j..1•gust-To ~ash from this year's receipts .. . .. . ........... $44,586 30
To c.ash, interest Blue Lake Water Co.............
420 00
To cash, interest A. Borel & Co ........ . ....... : .
266 21
Total. ..... .. ..................................... $45,2i2 51
Disbursements.
As per warrants on file with Grand Treasurer ............ . $38,677 12
To balance en hand (see A. Borel & Co. 's bank book).... . . 6,595 S9
Total. ................................ . ... .. ... ... $45,272 51
Assets.
Belonging to the :i'd.". W:. Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., and in the
of Grand Treasurer Edward Coleman, October 1st, 1906,
are as follows:
Par Value. Actual Value.
5881 shares Masonic Hall Stock ........... $58,810 00
$176,430 00
7 1000 6 :per cent first mortgage bonds
B. L. Water Co........................ 7,000. 00
7,910 00
Cvsh in bank ...... .. . . ...... . ..... .. ... .
50,963 46
po~session

Grand total. ..........•....... . .......... , ..... : .. $235,303 46
Grand Treasurer Coleman, together with the Finance Committee
and the expt!rt, visited the Trust Company's vaults and the Bank
and the Safe Deposit Company's vaults, where we found all moneys,
stock and bonds safely deposited, agreeing in ev~ry particular with
the books just examined.
It gives me much pleasure to · report that I find your books in

".\.1" condition and correct; vouchers properly numbered and filed.
L. W ADHAM, Expert Accountant.

478

PROCEEDiNGS OJ!' THE

To the Board of Trustees of the
Masonic Widows' and Orp~ans' Home:Sirs and Bret.hren-

It is my pleasure to again re.p ort to you that I have carefully
checked and examined the books and vouchers kept by Grand Secretary Georg-i Johnson, and GranP, Treasurer Edward Coleman, and
with Bro. Peabody we have examined and checked each and every
bjJl, purcha~ed for the Home, from March lst, , 1906, to · October 1st,
1916, inclusive, and the warrants in the hands of the Grand Treasurer
frcim September 1st, 1905, to March 1st, 1906, inclusive, the bills
having been destroyed by the fire; and we find vouchers properly
filed and numbered for every. dollar disbursed, with a summary of
each month'" expenditures; have checked all warrimts drawn on the
'l'reasurer, ~hecked all postings from cash and journal to ledger, and
taken a trial balance. I find the books in perfect order, and correct.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

479

Your committee recommend that the sum of one hundred and fifty
dollars be donated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to the Calvary
Presbyterian Church authorities for the use of this lecture room and
the committee-rooms. We also recommen<l that a vote of thanks of
this Gran·d Lodge be ext!mded to the trustees of said church.
Respectfully submitted,
JACOB H. NEF:I!',
ELMER E. STONE,
0. M. GOLDARACENA,
LEON YOUNGWORTH,
THOS. 0. HEYDENFELDT,
Committee.

All which were concurred in and the resolutions and
keommendations accompanying them were adopted.

FINANCIAL STATEMENT.
Receipts.
1905.
Oct. let-To cash balance on hand ................... . .... $36,286 99
1906.
Od. 1st-To cash, per capita tax, 1906 . .. ...... : .......... $34,900 19
401 58
To cash, received interest A. Borel. .. ;.'... .... ...
To cash, received Union Trust Co................
21 87
To cash, received S. F. Savings Union ..... .... .. :
99 22
Grand total. ...................................... $71,709 85
Disbursements.
A,s per vouchers on file (see itemized bills with Grand Secreta:ry J'lhnson), accounting for every dollar disbursed ... $31,\)02 45
Net 'balance ... . ............ .. .................... $39,807 40
Distributed as follows:
T:> cash· in A. Bqrel 's bank"' ... .".................... . ..... $36,07'5 85
To cash in 3. F. Savings. Union Bank ........... ". .. .... ... 3,051 54
T -1 cash in Union Trust Co. 's Bank ......... ._ . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
680 01
0

'rota! .............................................. $39;807 40
,..,,_, b;_lls of the Home are paid monthly by warrants drawn' on '
the Treasurer. I am pleased to report everything correct and in order.
:L: W ADHAM, Expert Accountant.

The M. :. ·w. :. Frank M. Angellotti, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following:To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your committee have had under consideration that portion of the
Grand Lecturer's report· recommending legislation whereby Inspectors
may be clothed with authority to forbid and prevent further work
in a Lodge when satisfied that the L~dge from carelessness or lack
of interest is not ·able to confer any or all degrees in a cr~ditable
manner.
An Inspector has, of course, no such power under existing law.
His powers are d'e:ftned by express premises, and we find no such power
•xiywhere conferred.
Nor do we think it advisable that any legislation of the nature
proposed should be adopted. The power of suspending any function
of a Lodge is an extraordinary one, to be exercised only where the
necessities of the case clearlf demand it. That, however, is now
vested exclusively in, the Grand Master, and we deem it inexpedient
that it should be exercised, in whole or in part, by any other officer.
If for any reasol!- whatever a Lodge should not be permitted to con-·
trnue to exercise any of its .f unctions, it is clearly the duty of the
tnspector to immediately acquaint the Grand Master with the condition. The Grand Master can at any time take such action in this
direction as is for the best interests of Masonry. ·

480

481

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

We therefore recommend that no· legislation of the character
be adopted.
· Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
WILLIAR S. WELLS,
JAMES B. . S'fEVENS,
THOMAS FLINT,
CHARLES W. NUTTING,
Committee.

On motion of the R. :. W. :. Reuben H. Lloyd, the Grand
Secretary was instructed to procure, so far as possible, the
fthotographs of each individual who had occupied the J.iOSilion of Grand Master in this Jurisdiction.

~uggested

Which was concurred m and the recommendation
adopted.

The hour having arrive41t for the election of the Grand
Officers for the ensuing year, the Grand Master named as
tellers Bros. T. J. Milliken, D. W. Smythe, E. C. Bonner
and W. P. Jeffries, and the election proceeded with the
following results:

The M.". V/.'. Wm. S. Wells, from the Committe~ on
Jurisprudence, presented the following:

The R.:. W.:. Edward H. Hart, of Berkeley, was unanimously
elected Grand Master.

To the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:That portion of the report of the Committee on address of Grand •
Lecturer, which recommJlnds that the Junior and Senior Wardens-elect
be required to perfect themselves in the Entered Apprentice and Fellowcraft Degrees before installation, has been referred to this committee and they report as follows:

The R.:. W.:. Reuben H. Lloyd, of San Francisco, was unanimously elected Senior Grand Warden.

That at the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge a
proposed General Regulation, to be known as "General Regulation
No. 82," was referred to them. This General Regulation is found on
page 154 of the Proceedfogs of 1905. Your· committee at that time
reported that they found that the proposed regulation in no way conflicts with any constitutional provision and reported it back to the
Grand Lodge without any recommendation as to whether it be adopted
or rejected, as it involved quite a radical change in existing methods,
they recommended that the same be referred to the next Annual
Communication. This recommendation was ado:pted and the only
thing to be done at this time is to determine as to whether or not they
desire to adopt such r£gulation, and the proper way to dispose of this
matter would be to either adopt or reject the General Regulation
No. 82, as presented last year and found on said page 154.
Respectfully submitted,
F. M, ANGELLOTTI,
W. S. WELLS,
J. B. STEVENS,
T. FLINT,
C. W. NU'fTING,
Committee.

Which was concurred in and the proposed Regulation
No. 82 was adopted.

The R.:. W.:. G~~rge M. Perine, of San Francisco, was unanimously elected Deputy Grand Master.

The W.:. Oscax Lawler, of Los Angeles, was elected Junior Grand
Warden.
The V.:. W.:. Edward Coleman, of San l<'rancisco, was unanimously
re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.:. W.:. George Johnson, of San Francisco, was unanimously
re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.:. W.:. William H. Edwards, of San Francisco, was unanimously re-elec~ed Grand Lecturer.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until two-thirty
o'clock this afternoon.

Afternoon Session,
Friday, October 12th, A. L. 5906.

I
I

The Grand Lodge was called on at two-thirty o'clock,
the Grand Master presiding.

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bro. Henry M. Owens, presented the following:To the M.:. W.:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your committee to whom was referred that part of the Grand
Master's address which contained the communication from the Special Representative of "Manila" Lodge, No. 342, requesting this
Grand Lodge to define our Masonic relations towards other Masonic
powers in the Philippine Islands, to wit: The Grand Orients of Spain
and France.
·From a lack of information and the limited time at the command
of this committee, it recommends that the final disposition of this
question be referred to the next Communication of this Grand Lodge,
and in the meanwhile (the regularity of the afor13said Masonic bodies
being discussed by other Masonic powers), that no Masonic communication be held with said Masonic bodies or their subordinate bodies.
Respectfully submitted,
W. FRANK PIERCE,
H. M. OWENS,
R. M. MEEK,
Committee.

Which was concurred m.
The Grand Lodge then proceeded to the installation and
investment of the Grand Officers elected and to be app0ointed. At the request of the Grand Master-elect his apr
pointments for the ensuing year were read by the Grand
Secretary, as follows: For
Grand Chaplain ....... . E. E. Baker ............ of Oakland.
Grand Orator .......... Jacob Nieto, .......... " San Francisco.
Asst. Grand Secretary .. Harry S. Johnson ...... " San Francisco.
Grand Mar&hal ......... Delos W. Smythe
" San Jose.
Grand Bible Bearer .... Chauncey C. Bush ...... '' Redding.
Grand Standard Bearer. Samuel Prager ......... '' Los Angeles.
Grand Sword Bearer .... Arthur J. Thatcher ..... '' Ukiah.
Senior Grand Deacon ... Thomas J. Baker ....... '' Sacramento.
Junior Grand Deacon ... Albert B. Webster....... '' Oakland.
Senior Grand Steward .. John T. Morrison ...... '' Berkeley.
Junior Grand Steward .. Aibert L . .1:1.eed ......... '' Suisun.
Grand Pursuivant ...... Louis L. Janes ......... '' Mill valley.
Grand Organist ...... , . Samuel D. Mayer ....... " San ·Francisco.
Grand Tyler ........... George P. Adams ....... " San Francisco.

483

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Gran'd Officers were then duly installed in ·their
several stations and places by Grand %faster Motley
H. Flint, assisted by f'.ast Grand Master James B. Stevens
as Master of Ceremonies.
On behalf of the Grand Lodge, the M.'.

w:. Charles

w. Nutting, presented our retiring Grand Master with a
beautiful chest of ~ilver.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
St.anding Committees for the ensuing year, as follows:On Finance:

On Jurisprudence:
Bro. Edmund' C. Atkinson,
" James W. Anderson,
'' Samuel C. Denson, •
'' George W. Hunter,
'' Motley ·H. Flint,

Bro. Oral M. Goldaracena,
" Orrin S. Henderson,
" Charles L. Patton,
" Alonzo J. Monroe,
" Harvey D. Loveland.

On Grievances:

On Pay of Members:

Bro. John A. Hosmer,
" John D. Murphey,
" William W. Waste,
'' Henry M. Owens,
'' Edward Sweeney.

Bro. William P. Filmer," Amos Stevens,
" Theodore J. Milliken,
" David J. Reese,
" George H. Burchard.
On Correspondence:

On Returns:
Bro. William P. Jeffries,
" James C. Pottle,
" John P. Jarman,
" Carlton C. Case,
'' Ernest C. Bonner.

Bro. James B. Stevens,
" William S. De Turk,
" Herbert A. Croghan,
" William F. Williamson,
" Joseph B. Frith.
On Accounts:

Bro. Henry Ascroft,
" T.heodore Frolich,
" W_alter A. Scott,
" Edward Peabody,
" Hugh ,J. ~en.

He also announced the appointment of Bros. Henry E.
fennell, Rodolph W. Meek and Ernest E. Hall as Trustees
of the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home.

484

PROCEEDINGS. OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Grand Secre'tary reported that the Lodges to whom
charters had been granted at this Communication, had
been numbered, and are located as follows:

STATEMENT

Gardena, No. 372, at Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Veteran, .So. 373, at Sawtelle, Los Angeles County.
Jewel, No. 374, at San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Richmond, No. 375, at San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Francis Drake, No. 376, at South San Francisco, San Mateo County.
l.rtesia, No. 377, at Artesia, Los Angeles County.
·
Mizpah, No. 378, at Los Ang~les, .Los Angeles County.
Fillmore, No. 379, at Fillmore, Ventura County..
. tluntington Beach, No. 380, at Huntington Beach, Orange County. ,,,
Oceanside, No. 381, at Oceanside, San Diego ·county.

No other business appearing, the Grand Lodge F. & A.
M. of California was closed in Ample Form:
GEO. JOHNSON,
Grand Secretary.

EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master.

48fi

Of receipts. by the Grand Secretary, for account of the Grand
Lodge, from August 1st, up to and including the 6th day of October.,
1906:
Fund.

General.

1906.

Aug.

1, Sotoyome,

123,

"
"
"
"
"
"

1, Jefferson,
1; Washington,
1, Manzanita,
1, San Pedro,
.1, Redlands,
1, Clear Lake,
1, Excelsior,
1, Occidental, ·
1, Doric,
1, Hanford,
1, Ione,
1, Porterville,
1, Tuscan,
1, Los Gatos,
1, Benicia,
1, Hermann,
1~ Enterprise,
1, Vacaville,
1, Georgetown,
1, Mt. Jackson,
1, Monrovia,
1, San Benito,
1, Brentwood,
1, Abell,
1, Yount,
1, Traver,
1, Los Angeles,
1, Liberty,
2, Petaluma,
2, Tehachapi,
2, Rio Vista,
2, Pomona,
21 Pentalpha,
2, Phoenix,
2, Santa Barbara,

97,
20,
102,
332,
300,
183,
166,
22,
216,
279,
80,
303,
261,
292,
5,
127,
70,
134,
25,
295,
308,
211,
345,
146,
12,
294,
42,
299,
180,
313,
208,
246,
202,
178,
192

"

"

"
"
"
"

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

Jdues in full to l
pi July, 1906. J $159 05
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
·do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

d~

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

39 15
111 00
33 30
127 90
192 70
28 55
417 75
581 80
420 60
157 25
58 55
99 45
59 35
69 15
125 00
183 35
149 70 .
136 65
48 60
66 95
82 35
110 25
61 80
105 75
131 75
29 65
348 60
181 10
214 60
94 . 15
54 20
174 60
551 35
245 80
125 55

Home .

$139 00
37 00
100 00
34 00
102 00
H!6 00
29 00
405 00
524 00
388 00
135 00
49 00
91 00
53 00
57 00
100 00
173 00
146 00
107 00
48 00
61 00
73 00
95 00
44 00
105 00
125 00
27 00
288 00
138 00
208 00
77 00
56 00
148 00
513 00
204 00
109 00

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Fund.
Gilneral.
Home
) dues in full
2, Mission,
Hl9, 3 1 July, 1906 . $ 887 65
807 oo
2, Penrhyn,
258,
do
do
47 65
47 00
289,
do
do
60 80
44 00
2, Elsinore,
3, Pacific,
136,
do
do
540 50
490 00
274,
do
do
45 80
44 00
3, Arroyo,
3, King David's,
209,
do
do
108 40
112 00
98,
do
do
31 50
'30 00
3, 'Hornitos,
188,
do
do
420 35
393 00
3, Oakland,
304,
do
do
62 20 .
56 00
3, Reedley,
64,
do
do
66 80
64 00
3, Natoma,
50,
do
do
·45 80
44 00
3, Forbestown,
3, Yuba,
39,
do
do
84 15
77 00
291,
do
do
124 30
94 00
3, Santa Paula,
3, South Gate,
320,
do
do
451 60
348 00
194,
do
do
64 15
. 57 00
3, Mountain View,
3, Fort Bragg,
-361,
do
do
69 15
57 00
283,
do
do
60 25
55 00
3, South West,
3, Willits,
365,
do
do
54 10
. 38 00
B, Yolo,
81,
do
do
42 35
33 00
3, Fidelity,
120,
do
do
464 90
442 00
222,
do
do
64 00
60 00
4, Granite,
4, Friendship,
210,
do
do
243 55
229 op
4, :Nevada,
13,
do
do
152 65
147 00
4, McKinley,
347,
do
do
89 05
79 00
1,
do
do
634 65
607 00
4, California,
4, Oxnard,
341,
.do
do
. 198 10
158 00
4, Union,
58,
do
do
207 35
193 00
333,
do
do
40 95
41 00
4, Alta,
65,
do
do
81 25
75 00
6, Amador,
55,
do
do
105 05
79 00
6, Suisun,
do
do
104 45
91 00
6, San Buena Ventura, 214,
6, Russian River,
181,
do
do
67 45
71 00
224,
do
do
210 35
173 00
6, Bakersfield,
296,
do
do
191 35
153 00
6, Silver Gate,
91,
do
do
41 05
39 00
6, North Star,
32,
do
do
58 20
56 00
6, Gold Hill,
6, Humboldt,
79,
do
do
311 20
276 00
6, San Mateo,
226,
do
do
89 95
81 00
346,
do
do
123 05
99 00
6, P.alo Alto,
315,
do
do
42 10
38 00
6, Norwalk,
184,
do
do
38 20
36 00
6, Sierra Valley,

1906.

Aug.

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

'.'

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

l

to1

48i

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

·

Fund.

General.

1906.

.A.ug.

6, Fresno,

"
"
"

6, .Marin,
6, Mountain Shade,"
6, Orland,
6, Vesper,
6, Evening Star,
6, Tuolumne,
.
6, Mokelumne Hih,
G, Henry Clay,
6, San Jose,
6, Alisal,
6, Calaveras,
6, Illinoistown,
6, Long Beach,
6, Orange Grove,
7, La Fayette,
7, San Joaquin,
7, Silveyville,
7, Temple,
7, Oak Grove,
7, Vitruvius,
7, Ionic,
7, North Butte,
7, Colusa,
7, Crescent,
7, Redwood City,
7, Starr King,
7, Eden,
7, Santa Lucia,
7, :E..ompoc,
7, Clinton,
7, Howard,
7, Table .Mountain,
7, Delano,
8, Hiram,
8, Mill Valley,
8, Monterey,_
8, Summit,
8, Rising Star,
8, St. Helena,
8, Evergreen,

"

"

.".
",,

,.
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

Home .

l 314 45

271 00

157 15
40 95
59 35
129 70
41 15
157 55
59 05
72 65
308 25
41 05
69 35
37 05
231 85
86 55
105 40
250 60
59 00
73 05
474 85
51 50
19 00
60 95
85 05
87 80
98 20
222 25
99 00
39 90
103 20
40 35
90 15
55 50
46 30
29 65
97 90
71 05
. 33 45
61 30
95 85
225 40

137 00
. 41 00
53 00
126 00
37 00
149 00
59 00
. 67 00
275 00
39 00
73 00
39 00
203 00
69 00
92 00
208 00
60 oo.
59 00
403 00
50 00
20 00
61 00
79 00
64 00
96 00
155 00
100 00
42 00
76 00
33 00
77 00
50 00
34 00
27 00
62 00
59 00
31 00
54 00
83 00
212 00

) dues in full to
247
• t31July,1906.J
191,
do
do
18,
do
do
265,
do
do
84,
do
do
186,
do
do
8,
do
do
298,
do
do
do
95,
do
10,
do
do
321,
do
do
78,
do
·do
do
51,
do
327,
do
do
293,
do
do
126,
do
do
19,
do
do
201,
do
do
· 214,
do
do
215,
do
do
145,
do
do
121,
do
do
230,
do
do
240,
· do
do
45,
do
do
168,
do
do
344,
do
do
113,
do
do
302,
do
do
262,
do
do
119,
do
do
do
96,
do
124,
do
do
309,
do
do
43,
do
do
356,
do
do
217,
do
do
112,·
do
do
83,
do
do
93,
do
do
259,
do
do

488

Fund.

General .

1906.

Aug.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
·«
"

"
"
"
"
"

."

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

8, Los Banos,

Jdues in full to i 39 25
312

•
8, Buena Park,
357,
8, Y allee de France, 329,
8, Mendocino,
179,
8, Tehama,
3,
8, Sincerity,
132,
8, Franklin,
143,
349,
8, Sequoia,
92,
8, Acacia,
8, Eureka,
16,
8, St. John's,
37,
8, Chico,
111,
348,
9, San Bernardino,
9, Laurel,
245,
281,
9, Mt. Shasta, •
117,
9, Concord,
204,
9, Salinas,
316,
9, Sanger,
9, Madera,
280, .
9, Alameda,
167,
9, Gibsonville,
158,
9, Trinity,
27,
9, Hollenbeck,
319,
10, Meridian.,
182,
99,
10, La Grange,
135, '
10, Valley,
10, South Pasadena,
367,
256,
10, Lodi,
267,
10, Galt,
10, Truckee,
200,
337,
10, Carquinez,
10, Drytown,
174,
10, Covina,
334;
10, Lexington,
104,
10, West Gate,
335,
101 Sunset,
352,
10, Whittier,
323,
10, Owen,
108,
339,
10, Fullerton,
187, .
11, Keith,
11, North East,
266,

pi July, 1906. J
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
dO'.'
do
do
do
do
do
do
·do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do ·
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
<lo

do
do

48!)

GRAND LODGE 01<' 0ALil'ORNIA.

::PROCEEDINGS OF THE

59 85
54 75
128 25
176 35
48 25
65 05
232 25
32 95 .
64 75
101 10
186 20
204 10
89 75
36 10
110 20 . .
135 45
74 65
91 80
99 10

22 90
74 85
578 05
50 65
119 10
49 70
70 00
142 30
32 45
148 60
63 10
17 10
79 00
59 60
379 65
141 15
133 30
. 12 35
87 55
93 65
33 25

Fund.

1906.

Home.

35 00
43 00
45 00
115 00
173 00
35 ffO
59 00
155 00
21 00
65 00
98 00
156 00
178 00
85 00
38 00
96 00
131 00
67 00
82 00
98 00
22 00
63 00
. 339 00
47 00
98 00
46 00
40 00
94 00
31 00
108 00
58 00
18 00
60 00
48 00
267 oo
97 00
114 00
13 00
89 00
87 00
3.5 00

Aug. 11, Winnedumah,

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

Jdues in full to/
287

• i31 July, 1906.J
282,
do
do
11, Callayomi,
do
<lo
41,
11, :Martinez,
do
do
156,
11, woodland,
do
do
76,
11, Bear :Mountain,
do
do
236,
11, Hill's Ferry,
do
do
285,
11, San Miguel,
do
· do
225,
il, Brooklyn,
do
do
354,
11, Presidio,
do
do
2-!2,
ll, :Magnolia,
do
do
305,
11, Azusa,
do
do
324,
11, Corona,
ilo
do
366,
11, Las Palmas,
do
do
11, Southern California 278,
do
do
13, So. San·' Francisco, 212,
do.
do
61,
13, Live Oak,
do
._do
198,
13, Wilmington,
128,
do
• ilo
13, Visalia,
do
do
16!,
13, Harmony,
do
do
35,
13, San Diego,
do
do
161,
13, Keystone,
do
do
229,
13, Solano,
do
do
368,
13, Unity,
do
do
310,
13, Sisson,
do
do
°9,
13, Corinthian,
do
do
364,
13, Olivet,
do
do
33,
13, Ophir,
do · do
57,
13, Santa Rosa,
do
do
331,·
13, Pacific Grove,
do
do
147,
13, Eel River,
do
do
273,
13, Anchor,
do
do
338,
131 San Jacinto,
do
do
.363,
13, Berkeley,
do
do
36~,
13, Charity,
do
do .
66
13, Forest,
do
do
133,
13, Yosemite,
do
do
21,
13, Hawaiian,
do
<lo
131,
13, Woodbridge,
do
<lo
275,
14, Oakdale,
do
do
2!4,
14, Alcat~az,
do
•lo
314,
14, Temescal,

General.

Home.

82 15

5·7 00

45 25
117 05
151 55
112 15
45 60
59 20
238 95
208 70
77 40
90 45
234 30
131 65
644 65
167 50
654 95
33 35
143 55
16 30
245 20
40 20
161 10
85 45
78 80
135 35
46 15

35 00
99 00
129 00
97 00
48 00
36 00
201 00
126 00
72 00
71 00
214 00
87 00
607 00
150 00
601 00
33 00
129 00
14 00
236 00
36 00
138 00
51 00
64 00
113 00
37' 00
59 00
259 00
40 00
104 00
. 55 00
57 00
llO 00
37 00
33 00
. 2J 00
26! 00
85 00
52 00
296 00
6! 00

71 05

279 05
45 00
106 80
63 25
82 15
182 50
52 15
36 35
28 00
229 00
94 75
64 40
332 20
B9 80

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1906.

Aug.14, George Washington,
''
"
''
"
''
"
''
"
"
''
"
''
"
''
''
"
"
''
''
"
"
''
''
''
''
''
''
''
''
''
''
"
''
''
"
''
''
"
''

.,

.62 5dues in full fol

· l 31 July, 1906. 5
286
do
do
14, Paso Robles,
203,
do
do
14, Confidence,
38,
do
do
14, Santa Cnrz,
2S8,
do
do
14, Maxwell,
103,
do
do
14, Or{)ville,
144,
do
do
14, 0 ricn tal,
218,
do
do
14, Jl,fosaic,
44,
do
do
14, },fount Moriah,
358,
do
do
14, Golden State,
207,
do
do
14, Anaheim,
328,
do
do
14, Redondo,
297,
do
do
14, Dunsmuir,
232,
do
do
14, Janesville,
353,
do
do
14, Pinole,
237,
do
do
14, Guadaloupe,
255,
do
do
14, W El come,
290,
do
do
14, East Gate,
46,
do
do
14, ·Texas,
336,
do
clo
· 15, Fruitvale,
252,
do
do
15, Bo.die,
326,
do
do
15, Needles,
243,
do
clo
15, Eucalyptus,
185,
do
clo
15, Claiborne,
129,
do
do
15, Nicolaus,
360,
do
do
15, San Francisco,
253,
do
do
15, Landmark,
370,
do
do
15, Amity,
do
271,
'do
15, Snow Mountain,
264,
do
do
15, Hesperian,
340,
do
do
15, Santa Maria,
272,
do
do
15, PasadEna,
220,
do
do
15,'Downey,
307,
·do
do
15, Santa Monica,
150,
do
do
15, Molino,
do
199,
do
15, Hartley,
318,
do
do
15, Em~nuel,
do
do
15; Speranza Italiana, 219,
269,
do
do
15, Olive Branch,
355,
do
clo
15, Hollywood,
89,
do
do
15, Rose's Bar,· ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Fund.
General.
. Home.

1906.

41 80

'44 00

Aug. 15, Quitman,

67 95·
24 85
203 60
23 75
148 55
370 25
108 60
329 40
210 65
66 30
125 10
131 60
51 10
63 35
41 20
128 50 .
4'14 80
33 45
151 15
40 90
61 10
78 35
51 55
74 55
204 45
39 45
160 25
25 65
142 90
92 00
377 00
65 20
93 20
48 65
92 75
44 65
167 60
94 30
126 90
32 70

61 00
~3 00
168 00
25 00
129 00
335 00
88 00
312 00
127 00
54 00
78 00
88 00
38 00

15, Surprise Valley,
15, Palestine,
15, San Fernando,
" 15, Alhambra,
15, Madison,
" 17, Fallbrook,
17, Hope,
" 17, Alturas,
17, Pajaro,
" 17, Lassen, .
" 17, Santa Ana
" 17, Stanislaus,
" 17, San Simeon,
" , 17, Naval,
" 23, Palestine,

53 <lO
36 00
90 00
324 00
31 00
97 00
42 00
. 58 00
13 00
49 00
69 00
131 <lO
31 00
55 00
27 00
102 00
60 00
300 00
56 00
96 00
47 00
85 00'
47 00
148 00
94 00
82 00
26 00

"
"
"
"
"

"

23, Northern Light,

23, Parfaite Union,
23, Mariposa,
23, Golden Gate,
23, Elk Grove,
23, Mount Zion,
23,. Ferndale,
23, Inyo,
23, Covelo,
23, Selma,
23, Tyrian,
23, Ontario,
23, Ashlar,.
" 28, Calistoga,
" 28, King Solomon's,
" 28, Loyalton,
" 28, Morning Star,
" 28, Durant,
Sep. 4, Athens,
" 4, Ocean Park,
" 4, Adin,
4, Buckeye,
" 4, Consuelo,
" 4, Oceanic,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

5dues in full to l
88

Fund.
General.
Home.

26 60
• 31 July, 1906.
235,
do
do
33 45
351,
do
do
181 50
343,
do
do
56 55
322,
go
do
90 55
23,
do
do
139 40
317,
do
do
29 70
234,
do
do
59 20
248,
do
do
40 05
110,
do
do
114 20
149,
do
do
94 45
226 55
241,
do
do .
clo
206;
do
67 80
196,
do
do
36 45
87,
do
do
276 15
351, disp. to reballot 10 ·oo
5dues in full to/
l 9 0, l31 July, 1906.j ~l 60
17,
do
do
129 70
62 35
24,
do
do
30,
do
447 85
do
•173,
do
62 95
do
114,
do
21 00
do
do
102 55
193,
do
56 55
221,
do
do
49 60"
231,
do
do
do
do
98 65
277,
do
41 40
284,
do
301,_
do
100 60
do
do
142 30
306,
do
do
233,
73 95
do
do
545 75
260,
.do
do
do
44 30
359,
192 05
do
do
68,
268,
do
do
363 05
228,
do
59 35
do
do
92 70
do
369,
do
do
250,
31 40
113 20
195,
do
do
325,
do
do
50 50
115 10
do
do
371,

l

5

491
28 00

3i 00
130 00
49 00
69 00
132 00
26 00
5,6 00
39 00
116 00
91 00
209 00
6;1 00
3J 00
237 00

48 00
126 00
53 00
423 00
61 00
20 00
89 00
49 oo.
48 00
87 00
32 00
88 00
94 00
61 00
485 00
34 00
179 00
319 00
53 00
46 00
32 00
76 00
50 00
114 00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

492
1906.

Sep. 4, Sacramento,

. Fund.
Gtlneral.
Home.

Jdues in full to l
40, l 31 July, 1906. \ 190 80

184 00

101,
122,
106,
26,
2,
350,
140,
141,
254,
60,
56,
59,
139,
175,
205,
330,
342,

59 00
56 00
101 00
162 00
116 00
68 00
. 49 00
26 00
112 00
44 00
36 00 .
.24 00
314 00
72 00
4( 00
ll7 00
256 00

do
do
62 05
do
do
67 20
95 95
do
do
202 90
do
do
"
ll9 20
do
do
"
112 00
do
do
"
48 55
do
do
"
24 70
do
do
"
124 40
dq
do
"
94 80
do
do
"
52 20
do
do
"
22 80
do
do
"
331 30
do
do
"
82 40
do
do
"
50 80
do
do
"
102 75
do
do
"
316 00
do
do
"
clues in full to}
U • D · 30 Sept., 1906. 54 60
" 24, Gardena,
U. D.
do
do
61 50
·" 26, Artesia,
U. D .
do • do
124 55
26, Veteran,
" 29, ~'illmore,
U . D.
do
do·
42 70
"
U. D.
do
do
82 40
Oct. 1, Jewel,
1, Richmond,
U. D.
do
do
103 00
"
U . D.
do
do
55 85
'" 1, Francis Drake,
2, Mizpah,
U. D.
do
do
88 35
" 3, Oceanside,
U. D.
do
do
05
" 4, Highland Park, U. D. dis. to open Lodge 24
75 00
"
Jdues in full to
Sept., 1906. J 26 10
" 6, Huntington Beach, U. D.

"
"<I

4, Clay,
10, Alamo,
10, Arcata, .
10, Palmyra,
10, Western Star,
ll, Cavite,
ll, Curtis,
12, Grafton,
12, Reading;
12, Plumas,
. 14, Volcano,
14, Gr.a vel Range,
'15, Crockett,
15, Antioch,
IS, Newville,
18, Kilauea,
22, Manila,

·493

l

po

l

28 00
30 00
69 00
26 00
32 00
40 00
23 00
33 00
19 00

3Jn ilrmorinm.
ABRAHAM HALSEY, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1 .. : ..... : ... Died September 28, 1905
JOHN KIRKPATRICK, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1. .......... Died Septe~ber 21, 1905
ISAAC NEWTON McCULLOCH, P. M.
Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8 . . ....... '. ..... Died October 31, 1905
WILLIAM BARKER, P. M.
Nevada Lodge, No. 13 .............. Died December ll, 1905
JOHN CALDWELL, P. M.
Nevada Lodge, No. 13 ......... . .. . . Died February 14, 1906
. BENJAMIN DULANEY DUNNAM, P. M.
Eureka Lodge, No. 16 . .. . . . .. .. ...... Died January 29, 1906
PRESLEY THOMAS JOHNSTON, .P. M.
Washington Lodge, No. 20 ............. . Died July 14, 1906
WILLIAM FESSENDEN ALLEN, P. M.
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21. ............ Died February 4, 1906

18 00

Total amounts received to October 6, 1906 . . .. $39,495 80 $33,769 00
Making an aggregate sum of . . ..... ... .. ... ... . .. . .... $73,264 8'.I

THEOPHILE LE BOEUF, P. M.
Georgetown Lodge, No. 25 .......... .'.Died January 20, 1906
ANDREW MIDDLEMESS SHIELDS, P. M.
Yuba Lodge, No. 39 ........... ... . . . Died January 20, 1906
EDWARD JAMES CROLY, P. M.
.
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40 ............ Died January 6, 1906

494

MOURNING

p AGES OF THE

3Jn !1lltmnrittm.
HUGH MAXWELL, P. M.
Crescent Lqdge, No. 45 .. . ... . ..... Died November 29, 1905
ABNER ELIAS · CHARLES, P. M.
Suisun Lodge, No. 55 .. .. ... . .......... Died March 10, 1906.
. WILLIAM CORYDON SHELDON, P. M.
Suisun Lodge, No. 55 . ... .. ... .. ...... Died January 26, 1906
JOHN RIPLEY WRIGHT, P. M.
Santa Rosa Lo.d ge, No. 57 ..... . . . . . .... Died August 5, 1905
JAMES TODD GARDINER, P. M.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. .. ...... .... . Died January 30, 1~06
JOSEPH CAVIN SIMPSON, P. M.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61 ... .. ... . ... . .... Died May 27, 1906
WALI1ACE KAY, P. M.
Amador Lodge, No. 65 . . ... . ... . ....... Died March 25, 1906
JAMES FRANKLIN THOMPSON, P. M.
Humboldt Lodge, No. 79 .. ·.......... Died December 2.7, 1905
JOSEPH A. FLINT, P. M.
Rose's Bar Lodge, No: 89 ............ Died March 28, 1906
HIRAM NEWTON RUCKER, P. G. M.
La Grange Lodge, No. 99 ..... ..... . . Died December 14, 1905
SETH SPRAGUE BOYNTON, P. M.
Oroville Lodge, No. 103 ..... . . . .. . .. . Died February 28, 1906

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3Jn· !1llrmnrittm. ·
ALBERT SHERBURNE, P. M.
.!fomo Lodge, N o. 122 . . .. . . . . ... ........ Died April 4, 1906
WILLIAM THURSTON SEARLES, P. M.
La Fayette Lodge, No. 126 . .............. Died May 21, 1906
JOHN CORNELIUS GOAD, P. M.
Visalia Lodge, No. 128 . ... . ... . . . .. Died September 25, 1905
WILLARD PEMBERT('N INGLISH, P. M.
·\I a.caville Lodge, No. 134 . . ... . , ... . . Died September 7-, 1905

JOHN FITZMAURICE KENNEDY. P. M.
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 .. , ... .... . .. . .. .. Dieu May 15, 1906
GOTTLOB CHARLES GROEZINGER, P. M.
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 .. . ..... . . .. . Died April 18, 1900
WiLLIAM REED LOW, P. M.
·Crockett Lodge, No. 139 ... .. .. ... . ...... Died May 31, 1906
WILLIAM JOHNSTON, P. G. M.
Franklin Lodge, No. 143 . . ......... Di~d November 16, 1905
THOMAS KYLE, P. M.
Oriental Lodge, No. 144 . . . ·... ; .. ... .. Died. August 19, 1905
JACOB SOPER GOULD, P. M.
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158. : ........... Died March 25, 1906
GEORGE FREDERICK CHALMERS, P. M.
Alameda Lodge, No. 167 . . ·. . . ....... Died December 26, 1905

495

4~6

MOURNING

p AGES OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3Ju ilrmnrtam.

3Ju ilrmnrtam.

WILLIAM REESER, P. M.
Mendocino Lodge, No. 179 .............. Died April 8, 1906

JAMES MILLINGTON, P. M.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215 ... , .......... Died April 15, 1906

JAMES LEVIN NICHOLS, P. M.
1\orthern Light Lodge, No. 190 .. .. .. Died February 23, 1906

WILLIAM BRAINBRIDGE STOREY, P. M.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215 ..... . .... Died September 9, 1905

WILLIAM ISAAC WEBSTER, P. M.Ferndale Lodge, No. 193 ............ . Died October 7, 1905

CHARLES DRINKWATER HAYES, P .. M.
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 .......•..... Died January 13, 1906

THOMAS ROWE, P. M.
Truckee Lodge, No. 200 .............. Died February 24, 1906

WARD SPOONER WILLIAMS, P. M.
Athens Lodge, No. 228 . . .... .. ... .. Date of death unknown

JOHN WILLIAM McFADYEN, P. M.
Silveyville Lodge, No. 201. .......... Died September 6, 1905

WHITCOMB HENLEY, P. M.
Covelo Lodge, No. 231. ............... ... Died June 9, 1906

HENRY ACKSON ROSS, P. M.
Silveyville Lodge, No. 201. ............ Died March ·21, 1906

JOSEPH BAILEY COOKE, P. M.
Colusa Lodge, No. 240 .......... . .. .. Died August 3, 1905

IREBY BARROW, P. M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ..... . ... . .. Died August 22, 1905

GEORGE HADSELL, P. M.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 .......... . .. Died September 4, 1905

ANDREW NICHOLS, P. ¥·
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 .. . , ....... Died February 26, ~906

JOSEPH HO~LYWOOD, P. M.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 . ........ .... Died December 6, 1905

JAMES HENRY MILLER, P. M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ................ Died May l, 1906

HENRY STOWELL, P. M.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264 ...... . .... Died November 10, 1905

WILLIAM VICTOR McGARVEY, P. M.
Salinas Lodge, No. 204 ....... . ... ...... Died M:i:rch 3, 1906

WILLIAM HENRY PABST, P. M.
Orland Lodge, No. 265 .......... .. .. Died November a, 1905

GEORGE THOMAS SHAW, P. M.
South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212 .... .. Died June 13, 1906

JOSEPH McCLAIN, P. M.
Durant Lodge, No. 268 .............. Dieil November 18, 1905

497

I·

498

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

. MOURNING PA GES OF THE

3Ju ~rmnrinm.

AMENDMENTS

WILLIAM BOSBYSHELL, P. M.
Southern California Lodge; No. 278 .... Died January ~. 1906
ALFRED ROGER BOOTH, P. M.
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 ... . ..... . .. Died March 15, 1906
JOHN · GEORGE SCHROEDER, P. M .
Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 . .. , .......... Died ·July 7, 1906
ANDREW JEWELL, P. M.
295 ......... Died March 19, 1906

~fount Jackson Lodge, No.

.

499

.

.

• FRANCIS MARION CULP, P. M.
Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307 ............ Died June 10, 1906

AMENDMENT

TO

THE

CONSTITUTION.

Sec.. 2, Art. I, Part III, adding, after the words, ''the lectures
thereunto appertaining'':
Provided, always, that whenever the nearest or most convenient
chartered Lodge refuses to grant its recommendation, the Grand
Master may, if after full investigation he deems it to be for the best
interests of Masonry, grant such dispensation without any such recommendation having been given.
AMENDMENT TO GENERAL REGULATION No. 57.
Substitute, after the words, '' sultl not exceeding,'' the word ''ten''
for the word ''five.''
NEW GENERAL REGULATION.

THOMAS CROSS POCKMAN, P. M.
Sisson Lodge, No. 310 ..... : . .' ........... Died April 14, 1906
JAMES HENRY SAYRE, P. M.
Sanger Lodge, No. 316 ......... ., ........ Died July 26, 1906 ·
JOHN RICHAR:P SLATER, P. M.
Corona Lodge, No. 324 .. ............. Died November 3, 1905 ·
EDMUND DANFORTH, P. M.
Loyalton Lodge, No. 359 .... .... .... Died September 10, 1905
'

CLARENCE MORTIMER .WHITE, P. M.
Ocea.nic Lodge" No. 371. . . .. .' ... : ....... Died Maroh 6, 1906

No. · 82. No Junior Warden of a Lodge shall be installed until be
shall have produced to the installing officer the certificate of the
Grand Lecturer or of the Inspector of the district in which his
Lodge is situated, certifying that he has personally examined such
Junior Warden-elect · and that be is qualified to give the work and
lecture of the First Degree; and no Senior Warden shall be installed
until be shall have produced a like certificate of his qualification to
give the work and lectures of the First and Second Degrees. Such
eertifica tes shall be sent to the Grand Secretary and filed in his office.

8

9 Marysville .... .... . Yuba .......... . .. .
Corinthian
50 ..... ..
6
113
"
" "
San Jose . . ..... . 10 San Jose .... .. ..... Santa Clara ....... .
50 ······
9
275
"
"
"
11 Portland ... ... ..... Oregon Ter . .. .... . .
t Willamette
"
"6, 1851,
"
8 Yount ... .... ... . 12 Napa .......... .. .. Napa ..... .... .... . May
30.......
6
125
Note-Those Lodges ·in the present list marked thus • have surrendered their charters-those marked thus t have
had their charters revoked~those ma!'k ed thus t are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodi;e of Oregon-those
marked thus § are now under the jurisdiction ·or the Grand Lodge of Nevada- those marked thus II are now under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arizona-and those marked thus have consolidated as follows: Marysville, No. 9,
and Corinthian, No. 69, under the designation of Corinthian, No. 9; Saint John's, No. 37, and Siskiyou, No. 105, under
the designation of Saint John's, No. 37; Tuolumne, No. 8, Mount Jeffe rson, No. 107, and Columbia, No. 28, under the
designation of Tuolumne, No. 8; Colusa, No. 142, and Equality, No. 240. under the designation of Colusa, No. 240;
Saint Louis, No. 86, and Gibsonville, No. 158, under the d esignation of Gibsonville, No. 158; Mokelumne, No. Zl, and
Calaveras, No. 78, under the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Natoma, No. 64, and Latrobe, No. 189, und er the designation of Natoma, No. 64; Nebraska, No. 71, and Ione, No. 80, under the designation "Of Ione, No. 80 ; Sincerity, No. 132,
and Greenville, No. 249, under the designation of Sincerity, No. 132; Calaveras, No. 78, and Campo Seco, No. 100, und er
the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Georgetown, No. 25, and Pilot Hill, No. 160, under the designation of Georgetown,
No. 25; and Petaluma, No. 77, and Arcturus, No. 180, under the designation of Petaluma, No. 180 ; Hueneme, No. 311,
and Oxnard, No. 341, under the designation of Oxnard, No. 341, and Palmyra, No. 151, and Eldorado, No. 26, under the
designation of Palmyra, No. 26.
George Johnson, Grand Secretary.

6

t:zj

_

7

r
0

ti

0

t:zj

C/1

,i

Nevada ..... .. . . 13 Nevada . , .......... Nevada ......... .. .
Temple . ....... . . 14 1Sonom:i ..... .. , .... Sonoma .. , ... . , ... .
t La Fayette . .. .. . 15 La Fayette . •... .. . Oregon Ter .. . .. ... .
11 Eureka .... ..... . 16 Auburn . .. ........ Placer . ... ...... .. .
12 Parfaite Union
17 San Francisco ...... San Francisco • ....•
13 Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville ........ Sierra ............ •
14 San Joaquin . ... . . 19 Stockton .. , . , ...... San Joaquin ...... , .
15 Washington . . .. .. 20 Sacramento .. , .. . .. Sacramento . . ... .. .
16 H.awaiian
21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
17 Occidental . .. ... . 22 1San Frandsco .. ... . . San Francisco . . . .. .
18 Madison ....... . . 231Grass Valley ....... Nevada .......... . .
19 Mariposa .. . .... . 24 Mariposa .... .. ..... Mariposa .... , . .... .
20 Georgetown
25 Ueorgetown ...... .. EI Dorado .... .....•
21 Palmyra .... , .. . . 26 P lacerville .. ... .. , . El Dorado ......... .
22 Trinity .. , ...... . 27 W eaverville . ....... Trinity . ... , .. .. , ..
11 Columbia ... ... , . 28 Columbia ... . ...... Tnolumne .... . ... . .
* Diamond . .. .... . 29 Diamond Springs ... EI Dorado .... , .... .
23 Golden Gate .... . 30 San Francisco ... , .. San Francisco ..... .
11 Mokelumne .. . .. . 31 Mokelumne Hill . : .• Calaveras . ·...... .. .
24 Gold Rill ....... . 32 Lincoln ..... . ... . , . Placer ..... . ...... .
25 Ophir . .. , ..... . . 33 Murphy's .. .. ..... , Calaveras ... ... ... .
t Santa Clara ..... . 34 Santa Clara ........ Santa Clara ..... .. .
26 San Diego .. . ... . 35 3an Diego .. .. ..... San Diego ........ .
* Butte ... . ...... . 36 Bidwell ............ Butte ........... .. .
27 St. John's .... . .. 37 Yreka . , ..... , .. . ... Siskiyou ......... . .
28 Santa Cruz . ·. . , . . 38 Santa Cruz ....... .. Santa Cruz ........ .
29 Yuba ...... . ... . 39 Marysville .... , .... Yuba . ..... . ...... .
31) Sacramento . . .. . . 40 3acramento ........ Sacrame nto . ... ... .
. 31 Martinez .. . ... , . 41 Martinez . . ......... Contra Costa ...... .
·32 Los Angeks .... . 42 Los Angeles .. . , . . , • Los Angeles •.. .....
33 Hiram .. , . , .... .
34. Mount Moriah . . . 43 El Dorado . . . . .... .. El Dorado ...... ... .
44 ·3an Francisco ...... San 1',rancisco .. . . . .
35 Crescent .. ... .. . 45 Crescent City ... .. , . Del Norte ... ...... .
36 T exas· .......... . 46 i:3an Juan .......... San Benito ..... . .. .

t:zj

.,,,..

-~------·1

9
10

0
"'.1
8
~

May

6,

1851.

"
"

"9,

"

Nov.
May

7,
5,

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"20,

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

5,

"
"6,
"

5,

"
"
1852.
"
"

"
"
"
1853.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"7,

M ay

3,

1854.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
."
"
"
"
"

..

5,
3,

"

"4,

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

50,... .. . , 61 147
5!J
30 l lc2 12
······ ...... ······ ·········
50......
6
65
75
5 12
126
30 ······
6
41
50 ....... 6
208
75 10
6
100
50
5 12
264
100 ·· ·· ··

9

524

53 ......
8
132
50
5
6
53
33 ......
6
48
3056162
30 .. :... 12
63

751 101

121

423

···~1····!1· ···~1······:
50...... .

6

l

9
6
6
8

1

gg .....~

75 10
3 ... ...
50

~, ...iO

35 ······

30

1

6,

6
6
9
6
6

236
!l8

168
77
184
99
288

~
>

~

t'-i

g
~
~
0

~
~
~

27

312
64
31

Ol
0

........

Suisun ... .... ... 55 Suisun ... .. ..... .. . Solano .......... .. .
Volcano ..... ... . 56 Volcano . . .......... Amador ............
Santa Ro~a ...... 57 Santa Rosa ......... Soboma ......... . ..
Union . . . . . . . . . . . 58 Sacramento . . . . . . Sacramento ........
Gravel Range : .. 59 Campton ville ..... .. Yuba . ......... .. ..
Plumas . . ..... .. . 60 Quincy .... . .. , .... Plumas ............
Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ............ '.lamcda ...........
Geo. Washington .. 62 Chinese Camp ...... Tuolumne .. ...... ..
* Iowa Hill . . . . . . . 63 Iowa hill , .. ~ .... .. Placer . . .... . .... . .
47 Natoma ......... 64 Folsom .......... ... Sacramento .......
Amador ............
48 Amador ......... G5 Jackson
49 Forest . . ..• . . . .. 66 AUeghany .......... Sierra •...........•
* Minnesota . . . . . . . 61 Minnesota . .' . . . . . . . 'ierr a ....... . .....
50 Morning Star. . . . . GB Stockton ........... Stockton ...........
'If Corinthian . . . . . . 69 Marysville .. . : ..... Yuba ............. .
51 Enterprise . . . . . . . 70 Yuba City . . . . . . . . • utter • . ....... ·"' ..
if N ebraska .•. ·. . .. .. 71 Michigan Bar .. ·.... Sacramento .... . ...

39
40
41
42
43
44
45
4G

',)

'

..

............

,

52
53
54

55
56

*
57
58
t

,

59

60
61

62
63

64

*

65

66
67
68
69

,

70
71

82

,

73

"
"
"
" .

"

.

.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

E. K. Kane ...... 72 N;evada ............ Nevada .......... .
May
Tyro . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 Drytown ........... Amador .......... ,
.,.
Wisconsin Hill ... 74 Wisconsin Hill ..... Placer ..... . ... ...•
Mountain Forest. . 75 Eureka North ...... Sierra .... . ..... . .•
"
Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp ... : .. Calaveras .. .. .. . .. ·.
Petaluma ........ 77 Petaluma . .......... Sonoma ...•....... .
"
.,
Calaveras ........ 78 San Andreas ... ; . : . Calaveras .. . ... ... .
Humboldt ...... . 79 Eureka ....... : . ... Humboldt ......... .
"
Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 Ione ..... . ....... . . Amador .... .... .. .
July
Yolo .......... . . 81 Yolo ............... Yolo ...... ... ..... .
May
Mountain . . ..... 82 Don Pedro's Bar ... . Tuolumne .. . ... . .. .
Rising Star... . . . . . 83 Forest Hill . .... .. .. Placer ............ .
"
;.
Vesper .......... 84 Reel Bluff ...... . ... Tehama ........ ... •
Saint Mark 's .. . .. 85 <"lymouth .......... Amador ........ .. . .
"
Saint Louis ...... 86 Howland Flat ...... Sierra ...... .... ... .
"
Naval .. .. ....... 87 Vallejo . .. ......... Solano .... .. ..... . .
Quitman ....... .. 88 North Bloomfiel<l .... Nevada . ...... •·... .
Rose's Bar ....... 89Smartsville ... ... ... Yuba . .... ........ .
Polar Star . . ..... 90 Poorman 's Creek ... . Plumas ........... .
North Star ...... 91 Port Jones . ........ Siskiyou .......... .
Acacia . . . . . . . . . . 92 Coloma ............ El Dora<lo .........•
St.· Helena ...... . 93 St. Helena ........ . Napa ..... . ...... .. .
Mount Hermon. . . 94 Elizabethtown ..... . Plumas .......... . .
Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ....... . Amador ..... . . . . . . .
Howard . . . . . . . . . 96 Yreka ............. . Siskiyou ..... . ... , .
Jefferson ........ 98 La Porte .. . ........ . Plumas . ..... . ..... .
Hornitos . . . . . . . . 99 Hornitos . .. ..... . .. Mariposa ....... ... :
La Grange . . . . . . 99 Merced ............ Merced ........ .. ..•
Campo Seco ..... .. 100 Campo Seco ........ Calaveras ......... .
Clay •.... , ...... 101 Dutch Flat ..... . ... Placer . ·- ......... ;
Manzanita ..•.. .. 102 North San Juan ..... Nevada . . ....... .. .•.
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ........ ... . Butte .......-. . ....•
Lexington ..... . . 104 EI Monte .. •........ Los Angeles ....... .
Siskiyou ... . ...... 105. enley ..... . ..... ·•. Siskiyou ...... : ... .

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

3,

"

2

'

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

5

12
lG

24

0
t;;

44

601

Q
t:i;l
C/l

ggl····-~

G
9

64

!J() ..... .

G

33

50, ..... .

G

179

5('

5

4

14G

3

6'

97

50 .... ..
1)0 ... .. ~
30 ......

12
6
6

276
49

1856.

30 ......

6

33

"
"
"

30

5
5

6
6

126

"

"
"

"3,

"

"

"
"
"

2; ""

"
"

·'!l,
8,

"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

15,

~
t"1

G
G
G

1855.

8,

259
193

,,2,

4,
1,

6
G

7!l
3G

8

"
"

"
"

ao

50
5
1
50
75 10
30 ......
50 . .....
50 ......
50 ... ...

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

3C

44

·O

"<i

75

~

ttj

73

54

w
>
z0

H

0

···~1····~···]·····2!~

'='
0

t_+j'

0

"%j

35

6

:m

30
30

6
9

21
83

····~·····i·: .... . .67
77

4(l ......
30

30

6
5

50
50 ....•.

6
6
6

?2
:...~ .6~3
35 10
30

1

37
30
98

a

i
H

>

~~

129
48

OI

0

~

"
"
"
...... ...... ...... ....
"
" "
... ,
... ...
"15, "
"
······
1()
10
6
75
.
.
..
.
..
.
"
Sacramento
"
.....
.
...
ll'i
Concord
81
13, 1858.
... ... ...... ....
Calaveras .... ... .... May
Vallecito
..
....
.....
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
118
Vallecito
*
3
6
30
"
" "
82 Clinton .. .. . , ... 119 Igo ...... . . ..... ... Shasta .............
2
100 10 12
San
Francisco
......
"
San
Francisco
..
...
.
"
"
Fidelity
.........
120
83
()
:o
50
5
.............
Placer
Iowa
!Jill
..........
"
"
"
Ionic
............
121
84
·6
G
"
"
30 ···· ··
"
85 Alamo .. . . . . . . . . . 122 Walnut Creek .... . . Contra Costa .......
;9
6
30
5
Sonoma
........
..
..
.........
Healdsburg
"
"
.
..
.....
123
"
Sotoyome
86
,o
G
50 ····· ·
Butte
..
........
..
..
"
Cherokee
..
....
.....
"
Mountain
..
124
"
87 Table
...
......
......
San
Francisco
...
...
"
San
Francisco
..
·
....
·····
·
"
"
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
..
125
t Progress
12
5
40
"
"
"
88 La Fayette ..... . 126 Sebastopol .... ....... . Sonoma ... . .. . .....
3
75 10 12
San
Francisco
......
San
Francisco
....
.
.
"
"
"
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
127
!Jermann
89
9
14, 1859.
G
50
8
May
Tulare
·····
......
Visalia
...
.....
.....
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
128
90 Visalia
,9
4
1
13,
30
....
....
......
Yuba
"
Wheatland
"
...
.....
129
91 Nicolaus
········· San Bernardino ... . .
...... ...... . .... ...
"
"
"
* Unity ... ........ 130 Ban Bernardino .....

80

Mount Zion . . . . . li4 Grizzly Flat ........

Amador . .. ..... ....
'if Saint Marks ..... 115 Fiddletown. . .........
.. . .. . .. . Sierra .. , .. ........
* Windsor ...... ... 116 Windsor
Sacramento .. .... ..

~

r0

t::I

0

~
0

>xj
~

:::i::
tr.j

•. •

;

J...l

92 Woodbridge ..... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ..... .. . · May
93 Sincerity ........ 132 Taylorsville ...... .. Plumas .. .. ....... .
"
94 Yosemite ........ 133 Uoulterville ........ Mariposa ...... .. . . .
!;i
"
95 Vacaville ... .....134 Vacaville ........ . . Solano .... .. .... .. . .
96 Valley ......... . 135 Linden ............. San Joaquin ... .. . .
May
97 Pacific ....... .. . 136 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ... .. .
"
Oro Fino .. .. .. . . 137 Oro Fino ........... Siskiyou .... ...... .
"
Violet
...........
138
Spanish
Flat
.
.....
.
El
Dorado
...
....
..
.
*
"
98 Crockett .. ...... 139 San Francisco ..... . San Francisco ..... .
"
99 Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale ... ... ... Sonoma ..... . ..... .
"
100 Grafton ......... 141 Grafton .... . .. . . ... Yolo .............. .
"
'if Colusa ........... 142 Colusa ......... .... Colusa ............ .
"
101 Franklin ........ 143 Courtland . . ...... . ·. Sacramento ....... . May
102 Oriental ......... 144 San Francisco ...... San Francisco . ... . .
"
103 Vitruvius ....... 145 Bloomfield ..... ... .. Sonoma ... ...... .. .
"
104 Abell .. . . ·........ 146 Ukiah .............. Mendocino ... . .... .
105 Eel River ........ 147 Rohnerville .. . ...... H umboldt ..... .... .
"
* San Luis Obispo .. 148 San Luis Obispo . .... .San Luis Obispo ... .
106 Lassen .......... 149 Susanville .......... Lassen ......... .. . . May
107 Molino ..... .. .. . 150 Tehama .... ........ Tehama ........... .
"
'if Palmyra .. .. ..... 151 ~ Jacerville ... ... . .. El Dorado ........ . .
"
Josephus
.........
152
Ernsh
Creek
.....
,
..
Butte
.......
..
.
..
.
.
*
"
* Rising Sun , ...... 153 Brandy City ........ Sierra ............ .
"
§ Carson .......... 154 Car~o n City .. ·.. .. . . Nevada Ter. . . .... .
"
* Mount Carmel .. . 155 Red Dog ..... . ..... Nevada .. ..... . ... . May
108 Woodland ....... 156 Woodland .. . ....... Yolo ..... ......... .
"
§ Washoe ..... ·.. .. 157 Washoe City .. ..... Nevada Ter. . ..... . .
"
109 Gibsonville ... . .. 158 Gib~onville ....... ·.. Sierra .. . .... ..... .
"
* Gilroy ... ...... . 159 Gilroy ... . . ... .. . .. Santa Clara ....... .
"
'if Pilot Hill ........ 160 Pilot Hill ...... . .... El Dorado ... . . .. .. .
"
110 Keystone ... : .... 161 Milton . .. .......... Calaveras ..... .... .
"
§ Virginia City .... 162 Virginia City ....... Nevada Ter........ .
"
§ Silver City . ·..... 163 Silver City ......... Nevada Ter...... . . .
"
Oct.
111 Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City ......... Sierra ............•

13,

1859.

"
"
"

"
"
"

11,

18t'i0.

10,

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"

16,

1861.

"

"
"
"
"

"

"

17,
16,
15,_

"

16,
15,

"
"

14,

"

"
"
"
"
"

15,
13,

"
1862.
"
"
"
"
"
1863.
'·'
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1864.•

30, .. .. . .
30
30[·· · ···
30 .. .. . .
30 ..... .
75
5

6
6
9
6
6
9

85'
35
20
107
46
490

~8J ...~-~I l~I ~!~26

3056
50
l
75 10
30
1
30 ... ...

~

zt::i
r
0

6
12
.6

59
335
50

5

6
6

105
104

~

301
1
30 . 1

6
6

91
47

L:l

30

6

129

~

40

••••'•I•·'•• t i • ' • • ' .1 •. • ••• • • •

501 .. .- ..

6

22

30121-2

3

36

30•.... ..

6

14

~

~

H

;i--

Ol

0

Ol

116
1.17
118

II

11~

120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129

,

Elk Grove ....... 173 Elk Grove ....... ... Sacramento .. ... .. .
Drytown ........ 174 Drytown ........... Amador ............
Antioch ......... 175 Antioch ........ .. .. Contra Costa ..... .. .
Merced .......... 176 Snelling .... . .... . .. Merced .. ..... .... .
Aztlan ........... 177 Prescott ....... ... . Arizon11 T er .........
Phoenix ....... . . 178 San Bernardino . . .. . San Bernardino .. . ..
Mendocino . ... . . . 179 Mendocino ....... . .. Mendocino .........
P etaluma .. . ..... 180 Petaluma
. . .. Sonoma ..... .... .. .
Russian .River .. .. 181 Windsor
...... Sonoma . ...........
Meridian ........ 182 College City ........ Colusa .. .. ..... ·· ·.•
Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake ..... ... Lake ..... .........
Sierra Valley .... 184 Sierraville ... . ..... Sierra . .... .. ......
Claiborne ...... .. 185 Point Arena ........ Mendocino ........
Evening Star . ". .. 186 Etna Mills ......... Siskiyou ...........
Keith ........... 18'i Gilroy ............. Santa Clara ........
Oakland ....... . . 188 Oakland . . .. . .. . . .-\ larneda . .. .... ....
Latrobe ... ...... 189 1 Latrobe .. ......... El Do1'ado .. ...... . .

.. .. ..
·· ···

~

..

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.

130
131
132
133
134
135
136

Northern Light .. . 190 Millville ........... Shasta ............• Oct.
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael ..... .... Marin ............ .
"
Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara ..... Santa Barbara .... .
"
Ferndale ........ 193 F erndale ........... Humboldt ......... . Oct.
Mountain View ... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara . . .....•
"
Buckeye ......... 195 Winters ......... . ". Yolo ........ . ..... .
"
San Simeon ... . .. 196 Cambria .. : ........ San Luis Obispo . . . .
"
* Paradise ...•. ... 197 Haywards .. ....... Alameda ....... . ..•
"
137 Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
138 Hartley ......... 199 Lakeport ...... .... Lake • ............•
"
139 Truckee ... . ..... 200 Truckee .... . ....... Nevada ...... ', ....•
"
140 Silveyville ....•. 201 Dixon .. .. ......... Solano ...... .. .. .. .
"
14'1 Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
142 Confidence .·..... 203 Castroville ........ . Monterey . . .. ...... .
"
143 Salinas .......... 204 Salinas . •. ......... Monterey ........ .•
"
144 Newville ...... ". .205 Newville· ........... Glenn .... .. ....... . Oct.
145 Stanislaus ... .... 206 Modesto . .' . ........ Stanislaus ...... ..•.
"
146 Anaheim ... ..... 207 Anaheim ........... Orange ........ . ... .
147 Rio Vista .... .. . 208 Rio Vista . ... .. . . .. . Solano .... ..... ... .
"
148 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo . .. .•
"
14~ Friendship ...... 210 San Jose .... . ...... Santa Clara .......•
Oct.
150 San Benito ...... 211 Hollister . : . ........ San Benito ........ .
"
151 So. San Francisco.. 212 San Francisco ..... . San Francisco .... . .
"
t Bodega .•.. ... .. .. 213 Bodega ...... . . : . .. Sonoma ...........•
"
152 S. Buena Ventura 214 Ventura .....•..... Ventura . •.. ...... . ,
"
153 Oak Grove ·...... 215 Alameda ......... . . Alameda .......... .
"
154 Doric .... : ... .... 216 San Francisco .... . . San Francisco . .. .. .
"
155 Monterey ... .... 217 Monterey . . .. .. .... Monterey •... • ....•
"
156 Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore •..•...... Alameda .......... . Oct.
157 Speranza Italiana 219 San Francisco . . .. .. San Francisco ..... .
"
158 _D owney ..... . . .. 220 Downey .......... . . Los Angeles •......•
"
159 Inyo ............ 221 Independence ...•... Inyo ......•..• . ..••
"
160 Granite ......... 222 Rocklin .. . ......... Placer ...........•
"
• Maui ............ 223 Wailuku ........... Hawaiian Ter ... . . . , Oct.

,,

13,

"

1865.

"
"
" "
11, 1866.
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
10, 1867.
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1868.

12,

"
"

"

"

15,

1868.

"

"

" 1869.
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
" "
"
"
14, 1870.
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
14, 1871.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
11, 1872.
" "
" "
"
"
" "
18, 1873.
14,

12
...... ... ... ···· ··
...... ·· ····
6
50 ..... .
6
30 ... ...

~
1-3

1
8
2

6
9

30
5
5
40
30 ......

."

t_:cj

r0

ti
0

:04

t_:cj

5
18

1
40
30
1
30 .... ..
30 ... ...
30
2
50 . .....
45 ......
1
30
1
50

6
6
6
6
6
12
6
9
12

35 ......
50 . .....

6
12

137

50 ......

6

109

40 ......
30
5
30
1·
30 ······

9

89
57

UJ

7

0
':i:J
i--,3

29

:1:1

1

t_:cj

6
.9
7
7
13

.. .... ······ ......

"30 .. : .. ;
30 ......

60
5
60 ......

6
6
6

48

76

31

6
6
6
9

. 33

6

85
108

60

75 20
36 , 3
40 ......
35
1
30
5

6
6

513
23
131

6

64

30......

6

30
1
50 .. :...
"50 ......

12
.6

6

44

l

6
6

50 ......

12

54
56
·112
229
95
150

50 ......
6
50
2· 9
75 25 12
40
1
6
50 ......
8
75 10 12
30 .:....
6
50 . 1 1 6
1
50 21-2
6

91
403
388
59
88
148
56
49
60

3

~

~

~·

~
~

a

I
~

Ol

0

-,J

169 Calistoga ....... . 233 Calistoga ......... . Napa .......... ....
170 Hope .. .......... 234 B eckwith ..... .. ... Plumas .. ...... ....
171 Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville . . .... ... . Modoc ......... . .. .
172 Hill 's Ferry ..... 236 Newman .. .. . ...... Stanislaus . . . ... .. ..
173 Guadalupe ... . .. .237 Guo<falup• .. • . .... . \Santa Ba<b&<• · . · · ·
* •ryre . . . . . . ..... .238 Gold Run .. .. . . . . .. Placer .... . .. . . .. ." .
* P escadero ... , ... 239 P escadero ...... . . . . San Mateo . .... ....
174 Colusa ....... . . . 240 Colusa .. . ........ . . Colusa . .. .. . ... . ...
175 Santa Ana .. . . .. 241 Santa Ana ........ · \Orange . ... .. . .... ..
176 Magnolia .. .. .. . . 242 Sa nta Barbara .. .. .. Santa Barbara ......
177 Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards .. : ... : ... Alameda ........ . ..
178 Alcatraz ......... 244 West Oakland . . . : . . Alameda . . ....... . .
179 Laurel . . . . . : ... . 245 Willowl3 ...... : . .... Glenn ..... .... .....
Los Angeles .. : . ... .
180 Pomona . ; .... . .. 246 Pomona
181 Fresno . . . . . . . . . . 247 Fre~no ............ . Fresno ... . .... . ... .
Modoc . . ...... ... . .
182 Alturas . .. ....... 248 Alturas

.... ... .. ...
.... ..... ...

-·

"II
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.

"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
14, 1875.

"

"

"
Oct.
"

"

"

"
"
"
1877.

"
"
"

11,

"
10,
"

"
"

1878.

"

~

II

189
190
191
192
193

II

194
195
196
197
198
199

t

200
201
202
203
204

*

205
206
207
208
209
210

Greenville ....... 249 Greenville . . . . . . . . .. Plumas ......... .. .
Adin . . . . . . . . . . . . 250 Adin .............. Modoc ... . .........
Brotherhood . . . . . 251 Duncan's Mills .. . .. Sonoma ............
Bodie ........... 252 Bodie .......... .... Mono ... ...... .....
Landmark . . . . . . . 253 Madison
Yolo
... ... .......
Reading . . . . . . . . 254 Redding ...... .. ... Shasta .. ... ... . . ...
Welcome ....... . 255 Lemoore . .. .. .. .. .. Tulare . ...... .. ....
Lodi . . . . . . . . . . . . 256 Lodi ... ........... San Joaquin .. .. ... .
Arizona . . . . . . . . . 257 Phoenix ....... .. .. Arizona 'l'er .. . . . ....
Penrhyn . . ... . ... 258 Penryn .... . .... ... Placer . ....... .....
Evergreen ...... . 259 Riverside .......... Riverside ..........
King Solomon's .. 260 Sail Francisco . ." ... San Francisco ..... .
Tuscan .........• 261 Williams ........... Colusa ........ ·. ....
Lompoc . . . . . . . . . 263 Lompoc ....... .. ... Santa Barbara .... .
Arizona T er ...... ...
Tucson . . . . . . . . . . 263 Tucson
Hespeiran . . . . . . . 264 Santa ·Maria . . ...... Santa Barbara ......
Orland . . ........ 265 Orland ··· ·· · .. .. .... Glenn ....... ... ... ...
North E a st ... ... 266 Fort Bidwell .... . .. Modoc .... .... .....
Galt ... .. . .... . . 267 Galt ...... .. .... ·- . Sacramento
. .. . .. .
Durant ...... . . . . 268 Berkeley ....... .. . . Alameua .. .. .......
Olive Branch .... 269 'l.'ulare ........ ..... Tulare
Fall River . .... .. 270 Glenburn ..... ... .. Shasta .. ..........
Snow Mountain . . . 271 Stony Ford ... ·.. ... Colusa ............ .
Pasadena ... . . .. . 272 Pasadena ...... .... Los Angeles ....... .
Anchor .......... 273 Compton .......... . Loe Angeles ........
Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande . . ... San Luis Obispo .....
Oakdale .... .. ... 275 Oakdale
Stanislaus ... . ... . ..
Westport . . ...... 276 Westport ... .. .. .... Mendocino ........
Selma . ...... . .. . 277 Selma
. .. . .. . .. .. Fresno . .. .. .. ... ...
S 'th 'n California 278 Los Angel es ....... . Los An~eles . .. . .. . .
Hanford .... . ... 279 Hanford
Kings . ... . ..... . ...
Madera . . . . . . . . . 280 Madera ..... . .. . ... Madera .... . .......
Mount Shasta . . . 281 Anderson
Shasta ....... . .....
Callayo mi .... .. • 282 Middletown
.. . Lake ............. •

... .. ... .. .

......... .. .

.

.. ........
.....

Oct .

10,

1878.

"

"

"

"
"
Oct.

" "
16, 1879.
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1880.

"

"

"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"
Oct.

"
Oct.
"
"
.
Oct.
........ ..... ""

.

.. ... .......
..
...... .. ...

6
1
8
;6

50
1
50
50 ······
5
35
50 ......
50 ......
30 ..... .

6
6
6
6
12
6
6

30 . 1

12

9
. 2 19
2
3
2'96
85
148
2 1
9

6

50 ......

~
~

0

ti

~
U1
0

~ -

~

_,....

"W

183
*
184
185
186
187
188

12
6
6
6

.. .. .. ... ... ... ... ..... .
······ ..... . ..... .

1876.

12,

50 ......
1
30
50 ······
35 .. .. ..

.

"

Oct.

"

"
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"

"
"

"
"

"

"

15, '1"881.
12,

1882.

" "
" "
11, 1883.
"
"
" "
" "
16, 1884.
"

"
"
"
"
16,
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
1885 .
"
"
" "
14, 1886.
"
"

······ ... ... ... ......
1

6

32

60
30
1
50 ......
30 . .. ...
30 ......

12
6
6
6
6

42
31
112

50 ·· ·· ··
75 15
30 ......
1
50

6
12
6
6

30

...... .... .. .........

······ .... ..6
30

...... ...... ....6
35
1
.40
30 10
30 . .....
6
75
30 ······

......

6
6
6
6

90
94
47
212
485
53
76
102
53
35
31
319
94

.........

30
50 .......
3() ......
30 ......
1
30

6
6
6
6
6

27
300
55

30
75 16
35 ......
55 ......
30 ......
30 ......

6
6
8
6
6

607
135
82
38

44

~ .....:.~
6
35

~
ti>zt'
~
0

~
0

ltj

c

~

~
H

?'-

01

0

<:O

219 Santa Paula ..... 291 Santa Paula ........ Ventura .......... .
220 Los Gatos ....... 292 Los Gatos .......... Santa Clara ....... .
221 Orange Grove .... 293 Orange ............ Orange ........... .
222 .- Traver .......... 294\L'raver ............. Tulare ....... .. ... .
223 Mt. Jackson .. .... 295 Guerneyville ....... :Sonom.a ....... .. .. .
224 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego .......... San Diego ........ ..
225 Dunsmuir ....... 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou .......... .
226 Mokelumne Hill ...298 Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras ......... .
227 Liberty .......... 299 Santa Clara ... , .... Santa Clara ....... .
228 Redlands .. .. .... 300 Redlands ........... San Bernardino .... .
229 Ontario . . . . . .. ... 301 Ontario ............ San Bernardino .. .. .
230 Santa Lucia ...... 302 Kings' City . . ...... Monterey ......... .
231 Porterville ....... 303 Porterville . ........ 'fulare ............ .
232 Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ........... Fresno .. ". ......... .
233 Azusa ...•....... 305 Azusa ............. Los Angeles ....... .
234 Ashlar .......... 306 Colton ......... : ... San Bernardino ... ..
235 Santa Monica .. ; .307 Santa Monica ..... . Los Angeles ....... .

"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

''
"
10,
''
''
"
''
16,
,,
"
",,

,,
"
1889.
"
''
''
"
1890.
,,

"
''''

"
"
"

,, ''
14, 1891.
,, ''
" "
'' "

Oct.
Oct.

14,
12,

1891.
1892.

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"

"
"
11,

"

"

"

Oct.

30 ... ...

6

30 .... ..
30
1

9
12
6

30 ......

l

30 ......
50 .... ..
50 ......
50 ......

30 ......
50 ..... .
30 ......
50 .... ..
35 ......
30 ..... .
30 .. ....
30 ......
50 ... ...

6

6\9
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

94

57

69
27
61
153
88
59
138

166
88
42
91

l;.3
~

0

tl

~
r:Jl
0

>tj

..;i

t:i:I
t:rj

5G

6

71
94
96

50 ..... .

6
6
6

73
34
64

50 ......
50
1

6

35

6

77

40. ... ..

9

64

"

236 Monrovia ........ 308 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles ....... .
237 ·Delano .......... 309 Delano . . ..........• Kern ............. .
238 Sisson .... .. .... 310 Sisson ............. Siskiyou .... ·...... .
ir Hueneme ....... . 311 Huen€me . . ........• Ventura ........... .
239 Los Banos ... : . .. 312 Los Banos ......... Merced ........... .
240 Tehachapi ...... . 313 Tehachapi ....... : .. Kern ............. ..
241 Temescal .. .. .... 314 Corona ............. Riverside ...... . .. .
242 Norwalk . .. ......315 Norwalk . . ...... : . . Los Angeles ... : ... .
243 Sanger .......... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno ......... .. .. .
244 )\'allbrook ........317 Fallbrook .......... Sail Diego . . . ... .. ..
245 Emmanuel ..... .. 318 Biggs .............. Butte ............. .
246 Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ..... . .. Los Angeles ... .. .. ;
247 Sout.h .Gate .. .... 320 Los Angeles .. ..... . Los Angeles ....... .
248 Alisal . .. ........ 1321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ........... .
249 Alhambra .. . .... 322 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ....... .
250 Whittier· ........ . 323 Whittier . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles .. .... :.
251 Corona .... ... ... 324 Pasadena ..... .... . Los Angeles . ...... .
252 Consuelo • ......... 325 Escondido .......... San Diego ........ ..
253 Needles ·......... 326 Needles ..... .... ... ·San Bernardino ... ..
254 Long Beach ..... 327 Long Beach . ; ...... Los Angeles ....... .
255 Redondo . ·...... : . 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ....... .
256 Vallee de France 329 Los Angeles ...... . . Los Angeles . . ..... .
257 Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter...... .
258 Pacific Grove .... 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monter ey .......... .
259 San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ....... .
260 Alta ............ 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono . , . .......... .
261 Covina .......... 334 Covina ............. Los Angeles . ...... .
262 West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles .... .... Los Angeles ....... .
263 Fruitvale ........ 336 Fruitvale .......... Alameda ......... . .
264 Carquinez ....... 337 Crockett ........... Contra Costa ....... .
265 San Jacinto ..... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ......... .
266 Fullertl)n ........ 339 Fullerton .......... Orange ..... . .....•
267 Santa Maria .. ... 340 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .....•
268 Oxnard . ; ...... , . 341 Oxnard . . . . . . . . . . . . Ventura ......... ~

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"

"
Oct.

"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
"n

"

"
"
"
1893.
"
"
"

"
"
" "
11, 1894.
"
"
" "
"
"
11, 1895.
" "
"
"13, 1896.
"
"
15, 1897.
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"14, 1898.

Oct.
Oct.

14,

"
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.

" "
" "
"ll, 1900.
"
" "
10, 1901.

1899.

501····"

35 .. ... .

30 ..... .

'6

38

30 ... :..

.6
6
12

67
26
47
339
348
39
69
114
214

30 .. ....
30 10

50 ..... :
6
50......
6
35 ......
6
35 ......
6
30
3
6
50 . .. ... . 6
30
3
6
60
l · 6"
50 ......
6
30 ......
6
50 .. .... 12
50 .. :... 12
40......
50 ·· ···• 12
9
53 ......
30 .. .. ..
6
6
50 ... ,..
50 .. ....
6
30 ... ,..
6

50
58
203
78
45
117
40
102
41
60
267
97
58

30 .:....

6

57

50 .. .....

6
6
6

89
60
158

35 ......
30 .. ... :

~
~
~

ztl
~

§

§.3

~

c

~

~
H

?""

Ol

.......
""""

277
278
279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293

Cavite .......... 350 Cavite ............. Philippine Islands ...
Palestine ........ 351 Los· Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Sunset . . . . . . . . . . 352 Los Angeles ........ Los AngelElil ........
Pinole . . . . . . . . . .°353 Pinole ............. Contra Costa .......
Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood ......... Los Angeles ........
Mill Valley ...... 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin .............
Buena Park ..... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ............
Golden State .... 358 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Loyalton ........ 359 Loyalton ... : ....... Sierra ..............
San Francisco .... 360 San Francisco .. : ... San Francisco ......
Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg ......... Mendocino ..........
Charity ......... 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ........
Berkeley ........ 363 Berkeley ........... Alameda ..... ~ .....
Olivet ........... 364 Corning ............ Tehama ............
Willits .......... 365 Willits ............ Mendocino , ........
Las Pal mas ..... 366 Fresno ............. Fresno .............

="'c """

Oct.

15,

1903.

"
"
"
"
"
. ""

"
"
"
"
"
"
16,

Oct.

13,

"
"
"
"
"
"
Qct.
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
12,
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1904.
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

1905.

50
5
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50
5
50 ......
50 ......
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......

30 ......
30
50 ······
......
30 ......
50 . 1
0 ......

12
6
6
12
9
6
12
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
6

6
6

8
0
7
3
6
2
2

3
7
4
1
7
7
0
7
8
7

f-3

trj

S'
lj

~

</)

0
>:i:J

f-3
~

t:::

"""7 -.:::==~~~~~~:::;::::::;;;;:;::::::===~-~==::;:-

294 South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena .... Los Angeles ....... . Oct.
295 ·Unity ........... 368 Glendale ........... Los Angeles ....... .
"
296 Ocean Park ...... 369 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ....... .
"
297 Amity ........... 370 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
298 Oceanic ......... 371 Honolulu ........... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
"
399 Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ........... Los Angeles ....... . Oct.
300 Veteran ......... 373 Sawtelle .• .......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
301 Jewel ........... 374 San Francisco ...... San FranCisco ..... .
·"
302 Richmond" ....... 375 San Francisco ...... San Franciseo ..... .
"
303 Francis Drake ... 376 South San Francisco. San Mateo ........ .
"
304 Artesia ........ ·.. 377 Artesia ............ Los Angeles ....... .
"
305 Mizpah .......... 378 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles · . · · · · · · 1
"
306 Fillmore ......... 379 1Fillmore ........... Ventura ........... .
"
307 Huntington Beach 3801Huntington Beach .. Orange ........... .
"
308 Oceanside ....... 381 Oceanside .......... San Diego ......... .
"

12,

1905.

"
"

"

"
"

"
"
10,
"

1~06.

'"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
."
"

"
"

"

50 ......
50
3
50
5
50
5
50
5
30
3
30
3
50 ......
50 IO
50
5
30 ......

6
6
6
12
12
6
6
12
12
6
6
6

gg .....31~ 1~1

501

50 ......

40
51
46
55
114
28
69
32
40
23
30
33
26
18
19
33.71\9

0t:i

z>I;:)
r0
I;:)

0

t;j

0

fzj

c
~

l;tj
0

~

z
H

>

01
......
~

514:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LopoEs
Lodge .

ALPHABETIC.AL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge .

No.

Post Office.

County

Abell .............. 146 Ukiah .......... , ..... Mendocino.
Acacia ...... .' ...... 92 Coloma .............. El Dorado.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ................ Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek ....... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville .......... Alameda.
Alcatraz ........... 244 West Oakland ........ Alameda.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ........... Los Angeles.
Alisa! .............. 321 Pleasanton ........... Ala111eda.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport · ........... Mono.
Atluras ............ 248 Alturas .............. Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador ............ 65 Jackson ............. Amador . .
Anaheim ........ . .. 207 Anaheim ............ Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton ... ·..........Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Arcata ............. 106 Ai:cata ........... . . . Humboldt.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande .......San Luis Obispo.
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia .............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton .............. .San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davisville ........... Yolo.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa ............ . .. Los· Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield .......... Kern.
Bear Mountain .... : 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Bodie ............. 252 Bodie ............... Mono.
Brentwood ......... 3.45 Brentw.ood ........... Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ........•. 225 East Oakland ........ Alameda.
Buckeye . . .......•. 195 Winters .......... ... Yolo.
Buena Park · ........ 357 Buena Park .......... Orange.
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Calaveras . ·. . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middletown .......... Lake.
Calistoga .. . ....... 233 Calistoga ........•... Nap~.
Carquinez ..... .. ... 337 Crockett ............ .Contra Costa.
Cavite ............. 350 Cavite .......... .. .. Philippine Islands..
Charity ........... 362 Campbell .... ·........ Santa Clara.
Chico .............. 111 Chico ......... : ..... Butte.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point. Arena ......... Mendocino.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat .......... Placer.

•

No.

Post Office.

· County.

Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake •........ Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo .................. Shasta.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento ..• ........ Sacramento.
Confidence . ......... 203 Castroville ........•. Monterey.
Consuelo · ........ ; . 325 Escondido ........... San Diego.
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa .......... • .... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
Covelo ............ 231 Covelo ............. .,Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City .... : ... Del Norte.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ....... •San Francisco.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 300 Delano .............. Kern.
Doric .. ·........... 216 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Downey ............ 220 Downey ............. Los ~ngeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Dryl;own ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 297 Dunsmuir , ........... Siskiyou.
Durant ............ 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
East Gate ......... 290 Los Angeles ......... .Los Angeles.
Eden .............. 113 San Leandro ......... Alameda.
Eel River .......... 147 Rohnerville .......... Humboldt.
El Dorado . . . . ... . . . 26 Placerville .......... .El Dorado.
Elk Grove ......... 173 Elk Grove .. . ....... :sacramento.
Elsinore ......... : .289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise ......... '70 Yuba City ............ Sutter.
Fullerton .......... 339 Fullerton .........•.. Orange ..
Eucalyptus . , ...... 243 -Haywards ........... Alameda.
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ...... , .. 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ......... San Francisco.
Fallbrook ...... . .. 317 Fallbrook ........... Sa:ii Diego.
Ferndale ...•...... 193 Ferndale ............ Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore ............. Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown ........ ~.Butte.·
Forest ............. 66' Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland .... , ...... .Sacramento.
Francis Drake , .... 376 South San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship .....•... 210 San 'Jose ...... '. ..... Santa Clara.

515

516
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

County.

Fruitvale ........... 336 Fruitvale ............ Alameda ..
Galt ............... 267 Galt ................. Sacramento.
Gardena .......... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown . . . . . . . . 25 Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne. ·
Gibsonville ........ 158 Gibsonville .......... a'lierra.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Franciseo.
Golden State ...... 3::iti Los Angeles .. . ....... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ...... .... 32 Lincoln .... ..... .. . .. Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Granite ........... 222 Roeklin ............. Placer.
Gravel Range ...... 59 Camptonville ........ Yuba.
Guadalupe ......... 237 Guadalupe ........... Santa Barbara.
Hanford .......... 279 Hanford , ............ Kings.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ..... ) ..... 199 Lakeport ....... '. .... Lake.
Hawaiian . . . . . . . . . . 21 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Islands.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Franciseo ........ San Franciseo ..
Hesperian ......... 264 Santa Maria .........Santa Barbara.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman ........ .. ..• Stanislaus.
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado ........... El Dorado.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles .......... Los· Angeles.
Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith ............ Plumas. ·
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos .............. Mariposa.
Howard ........... 96 Yreka ....... .. ...... Siskiyou.
Humboldt ........ ·. 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax .............. Placer.
Inyo .............. 221 Independence ........ Inyo.
Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 Ione ................ Amador.
Ionic .... . ...... . .. 121 Iowa Hill ..... ... .... Placer.
Jefferson .......... 97 Laporte ............. Plumas.
Janesville ......... 233 Janesville ........... Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ........ , ...... Santa Clara.
Keystone ........... 161 Milton .............. Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo .... : ...... : .... Hawaiian Islands.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco ....... ,San Francisco.
La Fayette ......... 126 Sebastopol ........... Sono-ma.
La Grange . . . . . . . . . 99 Merced .............. Merced.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

517

County.

Landmark ......... 253 Madison ......... : ... Yolo.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Lassen ...... ; ..... 149 Susanville ... , ....... Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ..............Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El "Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara ..... : .... Santa Clara.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc ... ........... Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ....... . . 312 Los Banos ........... Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton .. .-......... Sierra.
Madera ........... : 280 Madera ....... .......Madera.
Madison ...... ; .... 23 Grass Valley ...... " .. Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Manila ............ 342 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Manzanita ......... 102 North San Juan . '. .... Nevada.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa ........ . : 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez ............ Contra Col!ta.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ... .......... Colusa.
McKinley .......... 347 Point Richmond ..... Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino.
Meridian .......... 182 College City ......... Colusa.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah ..........•. 378 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill ...... Calaveras.
Molino ........ . ... 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Monrovia ......... 308 Monrovia ............ Los Angeles.
Monterey . ......... 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton .' ........... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ........... Alameda.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville .......... Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mountain· Shade . . . 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Mount Zion ....... 114 Grizzly Flat ......... El Dorado.
Natoma ........... 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval .............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.

518
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

.ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

·Post Office. ·

County.

Needles ............ 326 Needles ............. San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City ......... Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Newville ... .. ........ Glenn.'
Nicolaus .... .... .. 129 Wheatland ........... Yuba.
North Butte ......• 230 Gridley ...... .' ...... .Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell .........,Modoc..
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ............. Shasta.
North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............ .Los Angeles.
Oakdale ............ 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda .............Alameda.
Oakland .. .. ....... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park ....... 369 Santa Monica ....... .•Los A.ngeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu . . ........ . . Oahu.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ........ ... San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 'Tulare .............. Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ... ......... 301 Ontario .............. San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange ... ......... .. Orange.
Oriental ........... . 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland' ......... ... 265 Orland .............. G)enn.
Oroville ... ." ..... . .. 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Owen ............. 108 Scott 'e Bar .......... Siskiyou.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard ........... . .. Ventura.
Pacific . ·........... 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove ...•.....Monterey.
Pajaro ............ 110 Watsonville ..........Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles .... : .....Los Angeles.
Palmyra .........•. 151 Placerville .......•... El Dorado.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ Santa Clara.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
· Pasadena ........ .. 272 Pasadena . .. ......... Los Angeles,
Paso Robles .. ...... 286 Paso Robles ...•......San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn . ........... 258 Penryn ... . ......... 4Placer.
Pentalpha ......... 202 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Petaluma .......... 180Petaluma ......... . ... Sonoma.
Phoenix ........ .. . 178 San Bernardino •.. .... ,San Bernardino.
Pinole ·......... .: .. . 353 Pinole ... ...... ... ... Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . 60 Quincy ............. ,Plumas.
Pomona .. . ........ 246 Pomona ........ ..... Loe Angeles.
Porterville ......... 303 Porterville .......... . Tulare.

Lodge.

NO.

Post Office.

County.

Presidio ........... 354 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Quitman ........... 88 North Bloomfield ..... Neva.da.
Reading ........... 254 Redding .' ............ Shasta.
Redlands .......... 300 Redlands .... ·. .... ....San Bernardino.
Redondo .. . ........ 328 Redondo ........ . .... Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City ........ San Mateo.
Reedley ........... 304 Reedley ..... ·..... . .. Fresno.
Richmond ......... 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista ....... . .. 208 Rio Vista .. ..... .' ...•.Solano.
Rising Star . . . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill ..... , . ... Placer.
Rose 's Bar . . . . . . . . . 89 Smartsvillti .. .. .......Yuba.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor .... . .. .... .. Sonoma.
Sacramento ... ·. . . . . 40 Sacramento ... . ...... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's ....... 37 Yreka .. ............•Siskiyou.
Salinas ............ 204 Salin3:s ....... . ... ·.. . Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister ...... . ...... San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura ... . ......... Ventura.
Santa Ana ...... .' .. 241 Santa. Ana ... ........ Orange.
Santa Barbara ..... 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ........... San Diego.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger .. .. .......... Fresno.
San Bernardino .... 318 San Bernardino ..... •San -Bernardino.
San Fernando . ..... 343 Fernando . . .......... Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ......... Riverside.
San Joaquin .. , . . . . 19 Stockton ........•.... San ifoaquin.
San Jose ..... ...... 10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo .... . ...... San Mateo.
San Miguel ....... 285 S!ln Miguel .......... San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro ......... 332 San Pedro .. . ... ·..... Loe Angeles.
Santa Lucia ....... 302 Kings City ......... Monterey. .
Santa Maria ...... . 340 Santa Maria ......... 8anta Barbara.
Santa Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica ...... ..Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ........ 29i Santa Paula ......... Ventura.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria ..... ~ .. , .... San Luis Obispo.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... Sonoma.
Selma ...... : ...... 277 Selma ... . ...... . .... Fresno.
Sequoia. .. . ......... 349 Oakland .. .......... . Alameda.
Sierra Valley ...... 184 Sierraville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ....... .. ...• .. Solano.
Silver Gate ........ 296 San Diego .. . ........ San piego.

519

5,21

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

520
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
No.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Sincerity .... ... . . . 132 Greenville ... ....... Plumas.
Sisson ........ , . . .. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford .... . ..... Colusa.
Solano ......... .. . 229 Vallejo ............. . Solano.
Sotoyome .... ..... . 123 Healdsburg . . . . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California. 278 Los Angeles ......... Los. Angeles.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles .... . .....Los Angeles.
South Pasadena_ .. .. 367 South Pasadena ..... . Loe Angeles.
South San :)<'rancisco 212 San Francisco ..... . .. San Francisco.
South West •....... 283 National City ....... .San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco ... .. . . . San Francisco.
Stanislaus .... . .... 206 Modesto ...........•. Stanislaus.
Starr King .... . ... 344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun .. ... ......... Solano.
Summit . ... .. .... . 112 Knights F erry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset .... ......... 352 Los Angeles . ....... .. Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley . .. . 235 Cedarville .. . ........ Modoc.
Table Mountain ... . 124 Cherokee •............ Butte. .
Tehachapi ....... .. 313 Tehachapi ........ , .. Kern.
'fehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento .. : .... .. . Sacramento.
Temescal · .... . . .. .. 314 Corona . .. .... . .. .... Rivenide.
Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 Sonoma ............. Sonoma.
Texas ... . ..... .. .. 46 San Juan ........... San Benito.
·Traver ............ 294 Traver ............. Tulare.
Trinity .. . ......... 27 Weaverville ..........Trinity.
Truckee ... . .... .. . 200 Truckee ............. Nevada.
Tuolumne · . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora ....... . ...... Tuolumne.
Tuscan ............ 261 Williams . .. . . ..... .. Colusa.
Tyrian ........ . ... 284 Dunnigan . ........ . . . Yolo.
Union ......... . ... 58 Sacramento . ........ . Sacramento.
Unity .... ......... 368 Glendale . ........ .... .Los Angeles.
Vacaville ....... ... 134 Vacaville ............ Solano.
Vallee de France . ... 329 Los Angeles ... ..... .,Los Angeles.
Valley .. ........ . .. 135 Linden .. . ........... S\ln Joaquin.
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 Red Bluff .... . ....... Tehama.
Veteran .. . .. . ..... 373 Sawtelle ............. Los Angeles.
Visalia . . .......... 128 Visalia .............. Tulare.
Vitruviils ....... . .. 145 Bloomfield .... ..... .. Sonoma.
Volcano ...... ..... 56 Volcano ............. A~ador.
Washington ... ..... 20 Sacramento .. , ... .... Sacramento.
Welcome .. ..... ... 255 Lemoore ... ....... .. Kings.
Western Star . . . . . . 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate .. . ...... 335 Los :Angeles ........ . Los Angeles.

Post Office.

County.

Whittier ..... • .... 323 Whittier ..... .. ...... Los Angeles.
Willits .... .. . .. ... 365 Willits ... .. .... . .... Mendocino.
Wilmington ... . .... 198 Wilmington .......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 Bishop ... .. . ........ Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge .......... $an Joaquin.
Woodland ......... 156 Woodland ............Yolo.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo ... .. ............ Yolo.
Yosemite .......... 133 Coulterville ....... ...•Mariposa.
Yount ........... .. 12 Napa . .. . . ... . .. . ....Napa.
Yuba ..... .. ...... . 39 Marysville . . .... . . .. . Yuba.

•

24

522

LOCATION OF LODGES.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES

523

Post Office.
Lodge.
.
No.
Cloverdale ...........••.. Curtis ..........•........... 140
Coulterville •..•..•.•.•••• Yosemite . ........ .......... 133
College City ...•..........Meridian ................... 182
Colfax ..•....... ...... ...Illinoistown ................ 51
Corona .................. Te mescal .............. '. . .. . 314
Courtland •.............•.Franklin ................... 143 ·
Covelo .•................. Covelo .............•........ 231
Colusa .......•........... Colusa ... , .................. 240
Colton .................. .Ashlar ....... : ...........•.. 306
Covina ...................Covina ..................... 334
Compton .........•.......Anchor ..•.........•........ 273
Coloma •..•.....•.••..... Acacia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 92
Corning ..•..••.•........ Olivet . .... .. .. ........ . .... 364
·crescent City ........ ... . Crescent ................... 45
Crockett ...... ..... ... . ..Carquinez ..........•....•. ..337
Davisville ....•.......... Athens .............. ·. ...... 228
Delano . ...... ........... Delano ....... .. ......... .. . 309
Dixon ...............•.. . Silveyville . ...•.......... .. . 201
Downey ......•........ , .Downey .•.................. 220
Downieville .......... .... Mountain Shade ............ 18
Drytown •......... ...... .Drytown ..........• . ....... 174
Dutch Flat .............. Clay ........................101
Dunsmuir ...•..........• .Dunsmuir ................... 297
Dunnigan ................Tyrian ..................... 284
East Oakland ............ Brooklyn .....•.......... .. ·. 225
East Los Angeles ......... Sunset ........... : ....... . . . 290
Elk Grove ............. , . Elk Grove . ... .. .... . ... •.. . 173
Elsinore •.........•...... Elsinore .............. : .... . 289
El Dorado ...•.... : ...... Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 43
El Monte .......... . . .... Lexington .......... . : . ..... 104
Escondido ................Consuelo .......... .. ....... 325
Etna Mill ................ Evening Star ............... 186
Eureka .................. Humboldt .... . ............. 79
Fallbrook .. . .•.... • ....• .Fallbrook .......... •. . .. ... . 317
Fernando ................ San Fernando •......•....... 343
Ferndale ..........•.......Ferndale ................ . ...193
Fillmore •....•.. ......... Fillmore .. . ............•....379
Forbestown .............. Forbestown ............ ... .. 50
Folsom ............. ._.... Natoma ...........•........ 64
Fort Bidwell ............. North East ................. 266
Fort Bragg ............... Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones ................ North Star •........ . ........ 91
Forest Hill .•.. ...... . .. . Rising Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 83

Alphabetically Arra.-..ged

Post Office.
LOdge.
No.
Adin .................... Adin ....... ....... . . ....... 250
Alhambra ..... ....•... .. Alhambra .................. 322
Alameda ................ Oak Grove ................ , .215
Alleghany ............... Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alturas ...•.. ·........... Alturas .................... 248
Anaheim •............... Anaheim ...... . .... .... . . .. 207
Anderson ................ Mount Shasta ...... . . : . ..... 281
Angels Camp ............ Bear Mountain .. . ........... 76
Antioch ... ...•.......... Antioch ................ : .... 175
Arroyo Grande ........... Arroyo .. : . ............ : .... 274
Auburn . ........ , ........ Eureka .. .......... . ...... .. 16
Arcata .................. Arcata .............•....... 106
Artesia .................. Artesia ...... : .............. 377
Azusa . .......... .. .. . . .. Azusa ... .... . ... ........ .. . 305
Bakersfield ..............•Bakersfield ................. 224
Be·ckwith . ...... ..• .. .... Hope .......................234
Benicia ..... .............Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley ... ........ . .... Durant .. , ................... 268
Berkeley ................ Berkeley .... .. ............. 363
Biggs ... ... ........ ..... Eromaniiel ................ .. 318
Bishop ............•..... Winnedumah ..... , .... .. .. . 287"
Bloomfield ... ............ Vitruvius ............... .. . 145
Bodie ................... .Bodie ........•.......... . . . 252
Brentwood ..... ... •...... Brentwood ......... ........ 345
Bridgeport ....... .. ..... .Alta ....................... 333
B~ena Park ... •.......... Buena Park ................ 357 .
Ca!"istoga . ...............• Calistoga ................ : .. 233
Cambria ................. San Simeon ........•..... . .. 196
Campbell .. ... . .... .. ... •Charity . .... . ........... . .. 362
Comptonville . ..........•.Gravel Range . . ... . ..... ·.... 59
Castroville ..............• Confidence ...•.•. .. ...... .. .203
Cavite, P. I. .............. Cavite . ....... ..............350
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville .. ... ..........Alameda ................... 167
Uherokee ..... .. ... ...... Table Mountain • ........... 124
Chinese Camp ....... . .... George Washington .... . .. .. 62
Chico ............ ........Chico ...... .. ... .. ..... . ... I l l

/

524

LOCATION OF LODGES.
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Post Office.
Lodge.
1'o.
Fresno ................ . .. Fresno ... ·.......... . ....... 247
. Fresno ....................Las Palmas ................. 366
Fruitvale ................ Fruitvale ....... , ...... .' .... 336
Fullerton ................ Full('lrton ................... 339
Galt .. : ... • .............•Galt .............. .. ........ 267
q-ardena ...... ·........... Gardena .................... 372
Georgetown ... : . ......... Georgetown ..•.........•.. .-. 25
Gibsonville .............. Gibsonville ................. 158
Gilroy ...... . .. : ... : ..... Keith ...................... 187
Glendale ................. Unity ............ . . : ........368
Gra~ton ................. Grafton .................... 141
Grass Valley .......... . .. Madison .................... .23
Green ville ............... Sincerity ................... 132
Grizzly Flat ............. Mount Zion ................. 114
Gridley ........ . ......... North Butte ................ 230
Guadalupe ............... Guadalupe ................. . 237
Guerneville .... . ....... . . Moun.t Jackson .. : .. . .. : .... 295
Hanford .............•... Hanford .................... 279
Haywards ............... Eucalyptus ................. 243
Healdsburg ............ . .. Sotoyome ............... . ... 123
Hilo, H. I ... . .......... . . Kilauea .. . .. . ... . . . ......... 330
Hornitos .. ·... . . , ......... Hornitos ......... . . . ...... . 98
Hollister ...•............. San Benito ................ . 211
Hollywood . : .. . ......... . Hollywood .... .' ........... .. 355
Honolulu;H. I .. . ... . ..... Hawaiian ................ .. 21
Honolulu, H. I. .......... , Oceanic . . .................. 371
Huntington Beach ........ Huntington Beach ........... 380
Igo · · · · · · · · · · · · · ......... Clinton ..· ... .............. . . 119
Independence .. : . ........ Inyo .... . ................... 221
Ione .......... . .......... Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80
Iowa Hill ...... . .......... Ionic ..............•........ 121
Jackson . ........... : .... Amador .... . ..... .. .. . ..... 65
Janesville ....... . . . .... . . Janesville . ... ·..... • ...... . . 232
Kinga City .... . .......... Santa Lucia ...... ... ....... 302
Knights Ferry ........... Summit .. .. ................. 112
Lakeport ......... . ...... Hartley ........... . ..... . .. 199
Laporte . . .. . ... . ........ Jefferson ... . ......... . ... .. 97
Lemoore ............•.... Welcome . .' ........ . ........ 255
Lincoln ......... . ........ Gold Hill ................ ·. . . 32
Livermore ............... Mosaic ................•.... 218
1;'inden ... .. .......... . .. Valley .. ... ................. 135
Lodi .................... . Lodi .......... .'............ 256
Lompoc ... ._. .........•... Lompoc .. . ......... ~ ........ 262

525

Post Office.
Lodg:e .
No .
Lower Lake ............. Clear Lake .... . ............. 183
Long Beach .............. Long Beach ................. 327
Los Angeles .............. Los Angeles ................ 42
''
''
''

''

. . ... ·........ . Pe.ntalpq~ .o:. ! • .•• , • • • • • • • • • ••• • 202
... ~ .......... Southe;rn~California ......... 278
............. . East Gate .,, ........... , . .. . 290

............. . Hollenbeck ................. 319
.............. South Gate ................. 320
.............. Vallee de France ............ 329
.............. West Gate •................. 335
... , .......... Palestine .............. . .... 351
.............. Sunset ....... . ............. 352
......•....... Golden State ................ 358
''
............. . Mizpah ................... .. 378
Los Banos ............... Los Banos .................. 312
Los Gatos ................. Los Gatos ............. . .... 292
Loyalton ........... . .....Loyalton ... ................. 359
Marysville ............... Corinthian . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . ·9
''
.............. .Yuba ....................... 39
Madison ...... . .•........ Landmark .... . ............. 253
Manila .................. Manila, P. I. ................ 342
Maxwell ................. Maxwell .................... 288
Madera .................. Madera ................. : ... 280
Mariposa ................. Mariposa ........... .• ..... . 24
Martinez .................Martinez .................... 41
Merced ... ,. ..•........... La Grange .................. 99
Mendocino ...............Mendocino .................. 179
MiddletoWn ..............CaUayomi ......... . ....... . 282
Milton ..... : .............Keystone ................... 161
Mill Valley ........ . ..... Mill Valley ................. 356
Millville ......... ~ ....... Northern Light .......... . .. 190
Mokelumne Hill . .. . .. .. . . Mokelumne Hill . . .. . ....... 298
Monrovia .•.............. Monrovia .... , .............. 308
Monterey . . .............. M4»nterey ................... 217
Mountain View ........... Mountain View ........ . .... 194
Modesto •. . .... . .. .. ... : . Stanislaus ..... . ............ 206
Murphy's ..... ·........... Ophir ................ ·...... 33
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa .......... , .........Yount ...................... 12
Newman ........... . .....Hill's .Ferry .". . ............. 236
Needle's .................. Needles .................... 326
Nevada City ............. Nevada . . . . .. . . . . . .. .. . . .. . 13
Newville ................. Newville ................... 205

"
"
"
"
"
"

526
Post Office.

Lodge.

527

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA.

LOCA'I;'ION OF LODGES.
No.

North Bloomfield ......... Quitman ................. . . 88
North San Juan .......... Manzanita ....... ... ....... 102
Norwalk ............•.... Norwalk ................... 315
Oakland ..... .. .......... Live Oak ........... .... ... 61
''
............••••• Oakland ...... ...... . .. ... . 188
''
...........•.... . Sequoia .................. '.. 349
Oakdale ..........•..••.. Oakdale .................... 275
Oceanside .........•.•..•.Oceanside .......... . .... . .. 381
Ontario .........•.•...... Ontario ............ : ...... '.301
Orange .... ·.............• Orange Grove ... . ....... . .. ·.293
Orland ............•..•.. Orland ...........•... .... .. 265
Oroville .. •. ............. Oroville .................... 103 •
Oxnard .................• Oxnard. . ....... . ........... 34.1.
Pacific Grove ....... .•... Pacific Grove ............... 331
Palo Al to ....... : ........ Palo Al to .................. 346
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ....... .. ....... 286
Pasadena ................ Pasadena ........ . ......... 272
Pa~adena . ... ............ Corona ........ . ............324
Penryn .. ... ............. Penrhyn .................... 258
Petaluma ..............•• P etaluma .... ..... .. . ...... J.80
Pinole .................. • Pinole ... ............... ... 353
Pleasanton ......... ...... Alisal ..... ... .. ......... ... 321
Placerville . .............• EI Dorado . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
''
....... .' ....... Palmyra ........ ... ........ . 151
Point Arena ............. Claiborne ....... .... .' ... ... 185
Point Richmond .......... McKinley .................. 347
Pomona .... ...........•.•Poiµona . ...... ...... ..... .. 246.
Porterville ..... .. ...... .• Porterville .. . ........ ·...... 303
Quincy ........ . .... . .... Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Redondo ................• Redondo ................. . . 328
Redding ...........•..•.• Reading ...... '. .............. 254
Redlands . . ............•. Redlands ...... .. . ....... ... 300
Reedley . .... ........... . Reedley .. .................. 304
Redwood City ....... . ... . Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluff ..... ... ........ Vesper ............. . . .... .. 84
Rio Vista . . ..............• Rio Vista ......... ... . ..... 208
Riverside ..... : .......... Evergreen .................. 259
Rocklin .. .........•..•.. Granite .....................222
Rohnerville .............. Eel River .................. 147
Sacramento .............. Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
., '
.............. Washington ................ · 20
''
............. . Sacramento .............. ... 40
"
.............. Union . : ........ ..... ....... 58
''
............. . Concord .................. . . 117

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

San Andreas ............. Calaveras ............. ., . . . . 78
San Bernardino .......... Phoenix ............... .. ... 178
''
.... : ..... San Bernardino ............ .. 348
San Diego ............... San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35
''
............... Silver ('.tate ............ . .... 296
San Francisco ....... .. '. .. California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
............ Parfaite Union ..•. ... .... .. · 17
"
...... , ..... Occidental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
"
............ Golden Gate ........... . .... 30
............ Mount Moriah .............. 44
"
............ Fidelity .................... 120
"
............
Hermann ........... . .. . . ...127
"
... ..... ... . Pacific ... ..... ....... . .. ... 136
"
............ Crockett ....... ·......... . .. 139
"
............ Oriental .......... .... . .. ... 144
"
............ Excelsior ........... .. ...... 166
"
.. . . ... ..... Mission ............. .. ..... 169
"
. . .......... South San Francisco ........ 212
"
. .. ... ....... Doric . ....... ...... . .. . .. .. 216
"
..
. .. ....... Speranza Italiana .... .. .. ... 219
"
............ King Solomon's ...... ........ 260 ·
"
............ Starr King . .. .... ... ..... .. 344
"
.......... .'.Presidio .................... 354
"
.. .......... San Francisco ....... .. ..... 360
"
. ........... Amity . ... ......... ... .•... 370
"
. .. ......... Jewel . .. ........... .. ... ... 374
"
. ....... .... Richm~nd .......... . . . : . . .. 375
"
San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ............. .. . 338
San Jose .. . ............ .. San Jose . . ..... . ...... . .... 10
''
. . .... .. .. .. . ... . J:l'riendship ....... ... ..... .. 210
San Juan .............. ; . 'l'exas ...................... 46
San Leandro ............. Eden ....................... 113
San Luis Obispo .......... King David's .... . . .... ... .. 209
San Mateo .... .......... . San Mateo .. : .... ·... ..... .. 226
San Miguel .... .. .........San Miguel ................. 285
San Pedro •.. ..... ........San Pedro ................ . . 332
San Rafael ............... Marin ............... ..... .. 191
Santa Ana .......... , .... Santa Ana ........... . : ... ..241
Santa Barbara ........... Santa Barbara .... ... .. .. . . . 192
''
.......... . Magnolia .................. . 242 ·
Santa Cruz ............... <:;an ta Cruz .. ......... .. . .. . 38
Santa Clara .......... ; ... Liberty ........... ... . ... . . 299

528
Post Ofilce.

.

Lodge.

529

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
No.

Santa Maria ............. Hesperian .................. 264
''
..... .. ...... . Santa Maria ................ . 340
Santa Monica .... ... .... . Santa Monica ...............307
''
............ Ocean Park ................ 369
Santa Paula .............. Santa Paula ................ 291
Santa Rosa .............. Santa Rosa ................. 57
Salinas .................. Salinas ............. ..... ... 204
Sanger ...................Sanger ................... ·... 316 ·
~awtelle .... . ............ Veteran ............ :.- . ..... 373
Scott's Bar .............. Owen .... ." ................. 108
Sebastopol ............... La Fayette ................. 126
Selma ................... Selma ............•......... 279
Saint Helena ............. Saint Helena ............. •.. 2fl3
Shasta ................... Western· Star . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . · 2
Sierra City ......•........ Harmony .............. ·..... 164.,
Sierraville .. : ............ Sie:rra Valley ............... 184
Sisson ....................Sisson ................. ·..... 310
Smartsville .......... ". ....Rose's Bar ...• , ....• '. . . . . . . . 89
South Pasadena ........... South Pasadena ............. 367
South San Francisco ....... Francis Drake .............. 376 ..
Sonoma ............... ! •• Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Sonora ................... Tuolumne ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Stockton .... , ............ San Joaquin ........ .'....... 19
"
..... ; ........... Morning Star •... , ......... 68
Stony Ford .............. Snow Mountain ............. 271
Susanville ............... Lassen ..................... 149
Sutter Creek ............. Henry Clay ....•............ 95
Suisun ............. , .....Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Tehama ................. .Molino ..................... 150
Tehachapi ............... Tehachapi .................. 313
Traver .................. Trav.er ..................... 294
Truckee ..........•.......Truckee .................... 200
Tulare ................... Olive Bra.nch .... ·........... 269
Ukiah ..... : ..... . ....... Abell ....................... 146
Vallejo .................. Naval ...............•...... 87
''
................. . Solano ................. : ... 229
Vacaville .'..............• Vacaville .............. : .... 134
Ventura ................. San Buenaventura ........... 214
Visalia ....... . .. . .. : .... V:isalia . .• ·.................. 128
Volcano ................. Volcano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Walnut Cre.e k ............ Alamo ..... : ................ 122
Watsonville .............. Pajaro ..................... 110
West Oakland ............ Alcatraz .................... 244

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Weaverville ............. Trinity ....... : . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
Wheatland ............... Nicolaus ....•.............. Ul9
Whittier . ................. Whittier .................... 323
Winters ................. Buckeye ..................... 195
Willits .................. Willits ........... ". ......... 365
Willows ..... .. ...........Laurel ..................... 245
Windsor ................. Russian River ............... 181
Williams .................Tuscan .......... . .......... 261
Wilmington .. . . . ......... Wilmington ..... . ........... 198
Woodbridge ............. Woodbridge ........... •· ... 131
woodland ... .. .......... woodland .................. 156
Yolo .....................Yolo ................. •. · ... 81
Yreka ................... St. John's .................. 37
''
.......... : ........ Howard .•............ .'..... 96
Yuba City ·............... Enterprise . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 70

530

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.

GRAND LODGES IN CORRESPONDENCE.

531

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodges. .

Grand Secretaries.

Residences.

Organlze.d

Alabama •••••••••• George A. Beauc hamp.Montgomery •.... •June 15, ·1821
Arizona .•••.•••. •• George J. Roskruge .. . Tuc son ............ Mar. 25, 1882
Arkansas ...•..••••Fay Hempstead ... .. . Little Rock .....• .. Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia... R. E . Brett ........... Vic toria ... • . .•.••. Feb.. 22, 1832
Canada ..•••.••••••Hugh Murray . .... .•. Hamilton .....•.. .. Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado •••. :. ••••• Charles H . Jacobson ... Denver ........... . Aug.
2, 1861
Connecticut .....•. John H. Barlow ....... Hartford •.••.•.... July
8, 1789
Delaware ..•...•••.Benjamin F . Bartram.Wilmington ........June
6, 1806
Dist. of Columbia .. Arvine W. Johnston ..• Washington ....... Feb. 19, 1811
Florida .........••• Wilber P. Webster •... Jacksonville ..•.... July
5, 1830
Georgia ... • ..••••• W. A . Wolihin .. .•.... Macon ...... ...... . Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho .........•.... Theophilus W. Randalll:loise ... ........... Dec. 17, 1867
IIJ!nois •.....•...•. . Isaac Cutter .. ........ Camp Point . .. ... . April 6, 1840
Indiana .. . ......... Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis • . . .. . Jan. 12, 1818
Indian Territory .•..Joseph Sam. Murrow ..Atoka ...• ·......... Oct.
5, 1874
Iowa .. . . .. .... . ... Newton R. Parvin ... .. Cedar Rapids . • .. .. Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas ........ •.. • Albert K. Wilson .. .... Topeka ......... . . . Mar. 17, 1856
K entucky .. . ..•.... H enry Ban. Grant ... . Louisville . ... ..... . O c t.
8, 1800
Louisiana •..•..••• Richard Lambert . ... .. New Orleans .. ... . June 20, 1812
Maine ..• . . . •....•• Stephen Berry . . . . .. .. Portland ...•...... June 1, 1820
Manitoba .. ........James A. Ovas ........Wlnnepeg ......... May 12, 1875
Maryland .....•.•. William M. Isaac •..•. Baltimore ......... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts . . • • Sereno D. Nlckerson .. Boston ............ Mar.
8, 1777
Michigan .. . ....... Lou B . Winsor . .. ... .. Reed City ......... Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota .........Thomas Montgomery .. Saint Paul ........Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi •...•••• Frederick Speed .•.... Vicksburg .........July 21. 1818
Mlssour ......••..•John R . Parson .. ..... St. Louis .... .. ... . May "'!; 1821
Montana • . ... . ..•• •Cornelius Hedges .. . .. Helena . .• .... .....Jan. 24, 1866
N ebraska . . ....•.... Franels E. White ..... Oma.ha ...... ...... Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada .......• • ••• Chauncey N. Note wareCarson ..... . ...... Jan. 16, 1865
N ew Brunswick •.• J . Twining Hartt .. ... Saint John .. .. .....Oct. 10, 1867
N ew Hampshlre .... Frank D. Woodbury ... Concord ..... .. .. .. July
8, 1789
New J ersey ..••... Thos. H . R . Red way . • Trenton ...........Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico ....... Alpheus A . Keen . . .... Albuquerque ...... Aug.
7, 1877
New York ......... Edward M . L. Ehlers.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina .... John C. Drewry . .. ... . Raleigh ..... . .... .. Dec . 12, 1777
North Dakota •..•• Frank J . Thompso n . ..Fargo .... . . ... .....June 13, 1889
Nova S cotia • ....•• Thomas Mowbray .... . Halifax .•. .. . .... . Jen. 21, 1866
Ohio .. . .... . ...•.. John H . Bromwell . ... . Cincinnati . ... .. .. Jen.
7, 1808
Oklahoma .....•• . • J a mes S. Hunt. •. .. ... Guthrie .... ... ....Nov. 10, 1892
Oregon ..... •.• ..•. James F . Robinson .. .. Eugene ..... . . . ... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvania .... • •William A. Sinn . . .. ... Philadelphia . ... . . Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .. N ell M a c K e lv le ...... . Summerslde . . .... June 24, 1875
Quebec .... . ..•..••Wm H. Whyte . ...... Montreal . .... .. ... Oct. 20, 1869
Rhode Island ... •• S. Penrose Williams .. Providence .. . .. . ..June · 27, 1791
South Carolina •..• J acob T. Barron ..... . Columbia ...... . ...Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota • ..• Geo. A . Pettig r ew .... . Sioux Falls . . . ... .. July 21, 1775 ·
Tennessee ..•..•..• John B. Garrett. ... ... Nashville ...... .. ..Dec. 27, 1813
Texas ...••• •••••.• John Watson ......... Houston .... .. .. . ..Dec. 20, 1837
Utah .. • .. •..... ••. Christopher Diehl .... Salt Lake City .... . Jen. 17, 1872
Vermont .... •. •••••Henry H. Ross .. . ... . Burlington .. . .... .. Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia ....•.•••.• Geo. W . Carrington .. . Richmond . . .......Oct. 13, 1778
Washington • .••..• Horace W. T y ler . ..... Olympia ..... .. . . .. Dec.
8, 1858
.West Virginia .. .• . Will!am R. Howa rd .. . Charleston ... . . . . . May 11, 1865
Wisconsin .•••. . .•• William W. Perry . ... . Milwauk ee . . ......Dec. 18, 1843
W yoming ..... . ••••Wm. L . Kuykendall . .. Saratoga .... ......Dec. 1.5. 1874

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.
Jn Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California..
With Names and Residences of Grand Secrctariet1.

'
.
· A y ·
da
Havana
Cuba, Grand Lodge of· · · · · · · · · · · · iran
················
d n
England, Grand Lodge of . . . ..... E. Letchworth, F . S. A .. . ... L;nb~
Ireland, Grand Lodge of ... .. .... Right Hon. Lord Castletown . · u m
Newr!~~: ::~l~~'. -~~~t·e·~ -~~~~~l~thur H. Bray ........ .' ... Sydney
Malcolm Niccol .......... Auckland
New Zea1and · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
·
Edinbur h
Scotland, Grand Lodge of .. .•... Dave Reid .... : . . . . . . . . .
delai~e
south Australia. Grand Lodge of .James H . Cunningham.··· .A
'
J h B ··
. :Melbourne
Victoria, Grand Lodge of . . . . . . . o n ra1m · · · · · · · · · · · ·

532

Year

· 1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
"1.884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS.

53!)

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA;

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt., , .... . •Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt. ...... . ..... •Benjamin D. Hyam .. •E. F. W. EJlis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam ...... •Charles M. Radclltt . . •Adolphus Hollub.
•Charles M. Radcllfl'. ..... , •Townsend A. Thomas •John R. Ci:andall.
•William H. Howard ..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis . .' •Rector E . Cole.•
•William H. Howard ..... •Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Ftaymond.
•William H. Howard..... .John A. Raymond .. . •Lemuel Lyon.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis.... . . Charles Marsh ....... . •Aaron D. Park.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis. . .. . . •Philip W. Shepheard. •William McCormick.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis .... . . •Philip W. Shepheard. •Ebenezer Lane.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis:..... •Philip W . Shepheard. •William C. Belcher.
•James L. English ........ •William C. Belcher .. •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher...... Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher... .. . Gilbert B. Clai):>orne .. •Louis Cohn.
•William C .. Belcher..... . Gilbert B. claiborne.. William A. Davies.
Gilbert B. Claiborne . ... : William A. Davies... •Isaac S. Titus.
"Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... •Henry H. Hartley .... •Wm. H. Peterson.
William A. Davies. . . . . . . •Henry H .. Hartley. . . . Thomas Beck.
•Charles Marsh. .. ........ •Leonidas E. Pratt.... •Theodore G. Cockrill.
•Leonidas E. Pratt ........ •Isaac S. Titus ........ •John S. Ward.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac ·s. Titus ........ •Charles L. Wiggin.
•Leonidas E. Pratt . . ...... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •Benj. H. Freeman.
•Leonidas E. Pratt ........ •Benj. H . .Freeman . .. ·George' C. Perkins.
•Isaac S. Titus........... George C. Perkins .. . •John M . Browne.
George C. Perkins . .. ...... •John M. Browne . .... •William B. Parker.
•John M. Browne . ........ •Charles L , Wiggin.... Wiley J. Tlnnip.
•John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin... William S. Wells.
•John M. Browne ........ , •Charles L. Wiggin... "William W. Traylo;.
•John M. Browne . . . ...... •William W. Traylor. . William H. Crane.
•William W. Traylor...... Samuel C. Denson .... "Clay W . Taylor.
Samue1·c. Denson ........ •clay w. Taylor...... John Q. Adams.
•clay W. Taylor.......... John Q. Adams ..... . •Jonathan D. Hines;
•Clay W . Taylor ........ .. •.Jonathan D. Hines. .. Edmund C. Atkln~on.
•Jonathan D. Hines...... Wiley J. Tinnin . ..... Edmu.nd c. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines...... Wiley J. Tinnin...... Edmund C. Atkinson.
Wiley J. Tinnin..•.... . ..• Edmund C. Atkinson. "Flram N. Rucker.
Edmund C. Atkinson ..... •Hiram N. Rucker . ... •Morris M. Estee.
•Hiram N. Rucker ........ •Morris M. Estee . .... •AJvah R. Conklin ... .
•Morris M. Estee ........ • "Alvah R. Conklin .... "William Johnston .. .
•Morris M. Estee .... . .... •William .Johnston .... •Charles R. Gritman.
•Alvah R. Conklin ......... · "William Johnston .... •Charles R. Gritman.
•William Johnston ... . .. .. •Charles Ray Gritman. Henry S. Orme.
•Charles R. Gritman . . . . . Henry S. Orme... . .. James B. Stevens.
Henry S . Orme........... James B . Stevens .... •Edward M. Preston.
James B. Stevens . . ...... "Edward M. Preston.. William T. Lucas.
•Edward M. Preston...... William . T. Lucas.... Thomas Flint, Jr,

•Deceased

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•sashel Woods .... . .. . •Levi Sto'fell .... .. . . . . •John H. Gihon ...... .
•Benj. S. Olds ........ . •Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell ... . ..... .
•John R. McConnell .. . AdJlison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .. ....... .
•Richard F . Knott. .. . Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .... . .... .
•Robert N. Wood .... . Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell . . . . .. . . . .
•Samuel A~ Merritt. .. Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell . . ....... .
•Peter W. Randle ... . . Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell .........
•John B . Bope . ... . . . . Addison Martin . .. ... •Alex. G. Abell . . ..... .
•James W. Bicknell .. . Addison Martin ...... "Alex G. Abell ... .... .
•Thomas P. Hawley .. Addison Martin.. . .. . •Alex G. Abell .... . .. .
• Alvlnza Hayward .. . . Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Caleb E . Wilcoxon .. . •James Laidley .. . ..... •AJex G. Abell . . ..... ,
•John B. Hewson ... . . •James Laidley .... ... : •Alex G. Abell. ...... .
William A. Davies .. . •James Laldley.,: .. .'.. •Alex G. Abell ........ ·
•Isaac S. Titus ....... . •James Laldley .. ..... . •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Henry H . Hartley .. . . •James Laidley......... "Alex G. Abell ....... .
Thomas Beck ...... . •James Laidley ..... . .. •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
•Leonldas E. :Pratt.. . .,. •James ·Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
;Frederick F. Barss .. . •James Laidley . . . ..... •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
"Richard Dale ....... . •James Laldley . . . . .... •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
•Benj. H. Freeman .. . •James Laldle:Y .. .. ..... •Alex G. Abell ..... . :.
Geo. C. Perkins ..... . •James Laidley ........ • .A:lex G. Abell. ...... .
•John M . B~owne .... • •James Laldley .. .. . . .. •Alex d. Abell ....... .
Chas. E. Mitchell ... . •James Laldley .. .... .. •Alex G. Abell .... .. ..
Wiley J. Tinnin .. . . . . •.James Laldley ... . .... •Alex G. Abe ll .. . .... .
Jacob H. Neff ..... . . . •James Laidley ...... . . •Alex. G. Abell : ...... .
•Solon w. Craigue ... . •James Laidley ..... . .. •Alex. G. Abell .. . .... .
Wm. H. Crane ...... . •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Robert C. Broder ... . •Moses Heller . ........ "Alex. G. Abell . ...... .
John Q . Adams ... . . . •Moses Heller ......... •Atex. G. Abell ....... .
•Orrin W . Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Abell .. , .... ..
•Thomas .T. Bowers . . . •Moses Heller ....... .. . •Alex. G. Abell . ...... .
•George Hinds ... ... . . •Moses Heller ... , . . . . . •Alex. G. Abell .• . .....
•Hiram N . Rucker .. . . •Moses H eller ... . ..... •Alex. G. Abell .. . .. .. .
"Hiram N . Ruc\cer ... . •Moses Heller . . ....... •Alex. G. Abell ..... . . .
•Henry H. Knapp .... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ... .. .. .
• Alvah R. Conklin ... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ... . . . . .
•wm. Johnston ... .. .. •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell . .... .. .
•Marcus D. Boruck .. . •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell . ... . .. .
Henry S. · Orme .. . ... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ... . ... .
Henry S. Orme .. . ... . •Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson . . . .. .
Jamea B . Stevens . . . . •Nathan W . Spa.ulding. George Johnson ..... .
•Edward M . Preston . . •Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson .. ... .
Wm. T. Lucas ..... . . Edward Coleman..... George Johnson ..... .
Thomas Flint . .. .,.. . . Edward Coleman..... George Johnson . .... .
Fra nk M. Angellotti .. Edward Coleman. . .. . George Johnson ..... .
0

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

534

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS.

535

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M.-. w. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5851.

Grand Master.
Year.
1896 William T . Lucas .. . . ... .
Thomas Fllnt, Jr . . . . . . . ..
1897
. 1898
Frank M. Angellotti ... .. .
Charles L . Patton . . ..... .
1899
James A. Foshay ........ .
1900
1901
Wllllam S. Wells ........ .
1902 Orrin S. Henderson ..... .
1903
Charles W. Nutting ..... .
1904
George W. Hunter ...... .
1905
Motley H . Flint. ........ .
1906
Edward H. Hart ........ ..

Deputy
Senior
Grand Master.
Grand Warden.
Thomas Flint, Jr. . .. Frank M. Ange llotti.
Frank M . Angellotti. . Charles L. Patton.
Charles L. Patton.... James A . Foehay.
James A. Foshay .... .' William S. Wells.
William S. Wells ..... Orrin S. Henderson.
Orrin S. Henderson.. Charles W .. Nutting.
Charles W. Nutting.. George W. Hunter.
George W. Hunter... Motley H. Flint.
Motley H. Flint...... Edward H. Hart.
Edward H . Hart . .... George M. Perine.
Reuben H. Lloyd.
Geo. M. Perine .......
•Deceased.

Junior
Grand Warden.
Charles L. Patton ....
James A. Foshay . . ...
William S. Wells . . . ..
Orrin S. Henderson . ..
Charles W . Nutting ..
George W . Hunter .
Motley H. Flint. .....
Edward H. Hart. ....
George M. Perine ....
Reuben H. Lloyd .....
Oscar Lawler .........

...

Grand
Grand Treasurer.
Secretary
Edward Coleman ...... George Johnson .... . •
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman . .. .. George Johnson .. . . ..
Edward Coleman . ... . George Johnson . . ....
Edwa rd Coleman .. .. . George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson .. . ...
Edward Coleman .... . George Johnson . .. .. .
Edwarll Coleman .. . ... George Johnson .....•
Edward Coleman .. . .. George Johnson ... . . .
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George .Johnson . . . , . .
•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm . H. Edwards.
Wm. H . Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm .,H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.

536

EXPULSIONS~

EXPULSIONS AND SUSPENSIONS
EXPULSIONS BY LODGES AFFIRMED.

James Francis Branham, by Manila Lodge, No. 342, Sept. 5, 1905.
Charles W. Koerner, by Marin Lodge, No. 191, Jan. 31, 1906.
Emil Julius Kanngiesser, by Presidio Lodge, No. 354, Mar. 1, 19D6.
Frank Ridgeway Todd, Hartley Lodge, No. J.99, April 7, 1906;'
Hugh Kirkman, by Manila Lodge, No. 342, May 1, 1906.
William Silver Glover, by California Lodge, No. 1, May 3, 1906.
William Clawson, by Chico Lodge, No. 111, June 2, 1906.
Benjamin Beatty Duncan, by Mission Lodge, No. 169, Aug.' 1, 1906.
Harty Irwin (E. A.), by Acacia Lodge, No. 92, July !i, 1906.
Alexander Isaac Gray, by Elk Grove Lodge, No. 173, Oct. 7, 1905.
John Duncan Cummings, by Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297, Mar. 13,
190~
.
Charles L. Mulholland, by .Lexington Lodge, No. 104, Jan. 6, 1906.

APPENDIX

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

EXPELLED BY GRAND LODGE.

Lester Clay McNulty, of Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, Oct. 11, 1906.
SUSPENDED :SY GRAND LODGE.

Augustus Antoine Manuel, of Monterey Lodg"', No. 217, Oct. 11,
1906.

25

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
, FOR THE YEAR 1906

To THE M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LoooE,
F. and A. M. of CALIFORNIA:
The strenuous season through which we have passed, and from
which we have hardly yet emerged, is. a good reason for the brevity
of this Report, were it not for the additional and more weighty
reason, the wish of the Grand Lodge, as expressed in its action of
the preceding session, when it not only cut off the nub of the story
and denied it publication, but expressed its opinion of the value
of the work by an appropriation of fifty dollars for the present
R,eport.
But as time is money, and money is scarce, without wasting more,
we will take up our friend, Bea.uchamp of Alabama, to stand at the
head of the line and ask him to lend us his countenance in the making up of a brief Report.
ALABAMA.
The Grand Lodge of Alabama held its Eighty-fifth Annual, December 5, 1905, under the direction of the M. ·. W. :. Henry H.
Matthews, Grand Master; R.·. W.~. Geo. A. Beauchamp being Grand
Secretary, and Judge Wm. I. Titcomb, Chairman of Correspondence.
Three hundred and fifty Lodges were represented. Eleven new
Lodges were instituted, several weak Lodges were consolidated, eight
corner-stones of public buildings were placed, and five ReRresentatives
near other Grand Lodges appointed.

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE;

Bro. Titco~b presents a Report of two hundred and sev~ilty pages,
---,-goo d , Square work, closing his summary with this self-e~ident
· d proposi•t•10 n • whi"ch, · we venture to say, no experienced Mason • will eny:
••In some quarters the unworthy use of the black ?all is greatly
deplored-and justly BO. But as we have taken occasion t~ ~bs.erve
heretofore, the improper use of th~ white ball is vastly. more lilJU?l?us. ·
If a good soldier and upright man, is shut out of the citadlll,. a. serious·
deprivation is the result: if, on the other hand, a traitorous miscreant
is admitted, no end of disaster may ensue. Let us guard well the outer
door. ·
.
.
"It strikes us that the use of cipher or printed Ritual is an ever
present source of trouble in those Jurisdictions in which it i~ allowednay, in which it is fondly cherished.. The good old way is the- best.
Let "s keep the cipher out of. symbolic Masonry.
.
•'As a last word, we crave Heaven's abundant blessings for the
Guild and the l<'raternity. ''
The Grand Master and Grand Secretary were re-elected.
ARIZONA.
The Grand Lodge of Arizona held its Twenty-fourth Annual in' the
town of Flagstaff, November 14, 1905,_:_The M.·.
Grand Ma~ter,
George Shand, being absent;· the R. ·. W. ·. Edwm Seymour Miller,
·Deputy Grand Master, presided; the V.-. W.:. George James Rosk~uge ·
being Grand. Secretary.
.
Arizona has nineteen Lodges on the Roll, of which number fifteen
were represented, together wit~ twenty-one other Grand. Jurisdictions.
The M.-. W. :.- George Shand, Grand Master, sent hlB Address. by
mail and it was read by the Deputy Grand Master. H~ sent affectionate greeting to Grand Lodge, regretting his unavoidable absence,
caused by ill-health, obliging him to leave the Jurisdiction for an
indefinite period.
.
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were i~tr~duced
and welcomed by the Grand Master, the response thereto bem~- made
by Past Grand Master Morris Goldwater, for himself and his asso- ciate Representatives, as follows:

:V.:.

·

"Most Worshipful .Sir and Brethre.n of the Grand Lodge:-~or
If
d the Grand Representatives of Sister Jurisdictions, stan~ng
myse an
.
t'
R r .
that
before you, I thank you for the honor of our recep ion.
ea izmg
by this ceremony it is the intention of this Grand. Lo~ge to honor so
·far as is in its power, those JurisdiCtionl!I with which it has frate~nal
relations, we make bold 'to say, although we have no written authority,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

5

that our several Grand Lodges send you their good wishes and fraternal greetings. They trust that peace and harmony may continue
to prevail among the Craft you govern, and that Masonry in Arizona
may ever merit and receive the approval of the Grand Architect of
the ·Universe.
· "Permit m~, sir, a few words as Grand · Representative of the
Grand Lodge of California, a position I have held since 1889. At the
formation of this Grand Lodge those who were active in the work,
desiring to compliment California, which was the Masonic home of
many of the brethren and which Grand Lodge had first introduced
Masonry into Arizona, adoptec'J. her Constitution, By-Laws, Rules,
Regulations and even decisions and Work as our own. Since that time
whenever any doubt or difficulty ·has arisen in our minds over Masonic
matters, it has been promptly settled by asking, 'What would California do in a like case f '
''Following Califo_rnia 's example, we exchanged Grand Representatives with the Grand Jurisd_ictions which acknowledged and accepted
us as a sovereign Grand Lodge. In °1904, at its 55th Annual Session,
Grand Master Nutting delivered his Annual' Address, in _which not a
word was written referring to the Representative system. His
Address was referred to the usual committee for distribution and reference. When this committee reported, at the close of the Report it
said:
" 'It will be pate.at to any one who will give the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Lodges
prop~r consideration that this custom . is as useless as the "appendix
1
vermiform is ' in the human body. It seems to us that the custom
must have originated in a desire to decorate members with a mere
title. The only proper way· for one Grand Lodge to communicate with
another is through the Grand Masters. Your committee can see no
necessity for the continuance of the custom and therefore recommend that it be abolished.'

"The report of the committee was adopted. It was afterwards
said that this was done without consideration, the members supposing
it was the usual stereotyped report, and paying no attention to its
contents. The Grand Secretary of California took this action, however, as conclusive, and, I understand, notified many Grand Representatives of it, and discontinued to publish the list. · I did no~ receive
any notice, nor did I receive any copy of the Proceedings. When my
· attention was called to the matter I wrote to Grand Master G. W.
Hunter, ~nd asked him if I was or was not the <Jrand Representative
of California. In his letter of October 2d, conveying his good Wishes

6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

for the Craft in Arizona, he told me of the action taken, and that
I was down and out. But on October 23d I received from him another
letter in which he said that the 'Resolution' had been declared void,
as being in conflict with the Constitution, and that I still represented
California.

ARKANSAS.

''The action taken at the Grand Lodge Session of 1904° c~used
considerable comment in other Jurisdictions. Louisiana, fearing for
the safety of its Grand Representative, Bro. Frank W. Pierce, withdrew his commisssion. Past Grand Master Buck of Louisiana, in an
address to the Grand Representatives, when they were received with
the Grand Honors, said:
" 'The Grand Representative is not appointed for business purposes-he merely rises, if you will, as an evidence, a tangible symbol
expressive of the friendship and fraternal relations which exist between the Bodies-a link in the chain of unity--oneness-identity
-of being and purpose of all the Masonic Bodies on earth.'
"I have gone into this affair at some length, as it is probably the
last time I shall answer the roll call as the Representative of Cali-.·
fornia. I shall not resign, I hope I shall not be called hence; but I
presume that those who began the crusade will continue their efforts
~mtil California discontinues the system. When that time · comes I
trust that the Grand Lodge of Arizona will disregard precedent and
not follow in California's footsteps. When that day comes, and we
call the roll of Sister Jurisdictions, when California is reached our
Grand Pursui~ant will answer, 'Non est inventus, I and I will add,
'Farewell, farewell, the pride, pomp and circumstance. Othello's
occupation's gone.'
"It is hard to conceive of· the reasons which induced the California
Committee to make its remarkable report. But, sir, when you look at
the brethren before you, bedecked with the jewels which are indicative of th~ir. years of service to Masonry, it will not require much
stretching of the imagination to hear the small, envious voice misquoting Scripture and E<aying_: 'Consider the. ''daisies'' of the Lodge,
· how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin, and yet I say
unto you, that even Solomon in a.11 his glory w;is not arrayed like
one of tJ;iese.' ''

The M.·. W.:. Edwin Seymour Miller was elected Grand Master, .
and Grand Sec.retary Roskruge was re-elected.
There was no Re~!'t on Correspondance.

,

7

The .G rand Lodge of Arkansas h eld its Sixty-third Annual Communication in the City of Little Rock, November 21, 1905,-The
M.·. W.·. Styles T. Rowe, Grand Master; the R.·. W.·. Fay Hempstead
being the Grand Secretary.
Arkansas has enrolled 460 live Chartered Lodges, and twenty-two
brand new ones Under Dispensation, with a total of nearly 19,000
members. Four hundred and twenty-six Lodges were r epresented at
the present Annual, and thirty-seven other Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand ·Master gives the condition of the Jurisdiction as excell~nt, with progress and prosperity on the right, left and front.
Two Emergent Communications were held, one for the placing of
the corner-stone of the St. Alban 's Episcopal Church, on May 2d, at
Stuttgart, and the other for the same purpose at Hot Springs August
M~
'
A fine portrait of the pres~nt Grand Master, M.·. ·w.~. A. B. Grace,
appears on the opening page, and a beautiful view of the home of
Albert Pike when he lived at .Little Rock.
· The Grand Orator, R. ·. W. ·. Bro. F. G. Lindsey, delivered an excellent Address, taking as his text from the Book of the Law: "In the
beginning God created the heavens and the earth."
We note the appointment of a Committee o'n Correspondence, with
Bro. George H. Lyman . of Fort Smith as Chairman, but fail to find
Report.
CANADA.
The Grand Lodge of Canada, in the Province of Ontario, held its
.Fiftieth Annual in the City of Hamilton, July 19, 1905,-The M.·. W.·.
Benjamin Allen, Grand Master, on the Throne; the' M.·. W.·. Bro.
Hugh Murray being Grand Secretary. .There -yvas a very full attendance of officers and members, Past Grand Officers and visitors. The
Grand Lodge of Canada has registered on its roll 386 Chartered
Lodges, With five Under Dispensation; of these, all except thirty-five
were represented, together with forty-four other Grand Jurisdictions.
Bro. Past Grand Master J . Ross Robertson, in his intensely interesting historical Address before it at the Fiftieth Annual, says of the
origin of F r eemasonry in Canada:
''Canadian Masonry was founded in Nova Scotia between the years
1737-40. On the 13th of November, 1737,. Erasmus James Phillips, an
officer of the Fortieth . Regiment, who was stationed at Annapolis
Royal, visited Boston, and was mad·e a Mason in the first Lodge in
Boston.

(

H.EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"Bro. Phillips was a nephew of Colonel Richard Phillips, the :first
Governor of Nova Beotia, and was Secretary of the Governor?s Council.
Bro. Price, as Provincial Grand Master, also. appointed Bro. Phillips
as his Deputy, with power to organize Lodges in that Province.''
And with apparent satisfaction he observes, in closing:

CONNECTICUT.

8

''And here we are to-day, with 390 Lodges on our ;oll, and a
membership of 35,000, doing a work for Masonry that has earned for
us not only the good words of the Grand Lodges of the world, but the
esteem and respect of the people at large in this happy land that is
our home.''
The Grand Lodge of Canada is advancing in progress and prosperity.
On the opening page of the present. number of the Journal is a :fine
engraved portrait of the present Grand Master, the M.·. W.·. James
H . Burritt, K. C.
Three Especial Communications were held during the year for. the
placing of corner-stones of St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church, at
Hanover, the public school at the village at Dunnville, and the Ascension Episcopal Church, at the village of Kinlough.
The present number also presents for the consideration of the
Brethren the Revised Qonstitution.
COLORADO.

•

· The Grand Lodge of Colorado held its Forty-fifth Annual in
Denver, September 19, 1905,-The M.:. W.:. Benjamin L:James, Grand
Master, presiding;· the . V. ·. W. ·. Charles H. Jacobson being Grand
Secretary.
.
.
..
The Jurisdfotion consists of 107 Lodges, with a membership qf
11,000.
Six Called Communications were held during the year, of which two
were Emergent. Nearly all the Lodges were represented,_ togeth.e r
with :fifty other Gi'and Jurisdictions. Of the co~dition of the Jurisdiction, Bro. Ernest Le Neve Fo'ster, Grand Lecturer, says in his
Report: "The Lodges are working with great uniformity and conforming to the Standard W~rk of the Grand Lodge."
This number of the Journal contains the p0rtraits of Grand Master
George Keith Kimball, of 1887, and t)l.e present M.·. W.·. Charles
Fremont Painter.
.
The Report on Correspondence is from the pen of the ''ready
writer," Bro. Lawrence N. Greenleaf; he reviews sixty Grand Juris-·
dictions in a thorough and able Report of two hundred pages.
The Commit.tees on Correspondence and Necrology were continued.

9

The Grand Lodge_ of Connecticut held its One Hundred and Eighteenth Annual in the City of H artford, Je.nuary 17, 1905,-The M.·. W.:
Asa P. Fitch, Grand Master; the Veteran Bro. John H. Barlow being
the Grand Secretary.
An Emergent Communication was held in the City of Danbury,
September 5th, for the dedication of the new hall of ''Union'' Lodge,
No. 40, a Lodge holdi:n"g. a Charter under the Seal of the Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts, dated March 23, 1780. There are ,many items of
interest in this history of this Veteran Lodge of "ye olden tyme,"
which would be voted decidedly out of order in many of our modern
Jurisdictions. As the record evidences:
"In 1785 a worthy .Brother was helped to the value Qf :five qollars.
Instead, however, of giving him the money, some of the Brethren
were empowered to sperid it in buying small shoes for his children.
In aiding a poor woman, who· does not· appear to have been a relative ·
of a Mason, one Brothar agreed to board one of her children for one
quarter of the school year and another assumed the expense of the
tuition of one ·of the children for the same time. It is shown from
the records that it was the · custom of the Lodge to buy a cow occa: sionally and to pass her around from time to time to Brethren who
were .in need of lacteal sustenance. Whether the benevolence of the
Order extended so far as to appoint a Brother to milk the cow does
not appear. There are one or two instances where the l.odge ·voted
to buy lottery tickets. In 1801 three tickets to the Episcopalian
church lottery were purchased. But, alas! they proved to be blanks.
"In 1779 a vote a.ppears authorizing the purchase of 'a 11h-gallon
or 2-gallon stone jugg for the "use of the Lodge.' One Brother was
charged with the duty of :filling the jug; The names of the Brethren
who assisted in emptying the jug are not recorded. Probably the
jug contained only milk from the Lodge cow, although I confess·
that this charitable e.onclusion is a little beclouded by a vote of the
Ledge accepting a bid of one of the Brothers . to supply the Lodge
with liquors at prime c_ost."
The roll shows 110 Lodges, with a membership of 20,087. All the
Lodges were represented. Bro. John H. Barlow, Chairman of Correspondence, submits an excellent Report of 200 pages, and the Journal
is enriched with a fine portrait of the late Grand Master, M.:. W.:. Asa
P. Fitch.
.
M. ·. W. ·. Bro .. Benjamin F. Turner of Middletown was chosen
Grand Master, and the Grand Secretary was re-elected.

•

GRAND LODGE OF 0AIJ;FORNIA.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

10

BRITISH COLUMBIA.
The Grand Lodge of British Columbia held its Thirty-fifth Annual
in the Masonic 'J'emple, Victorra, June 21, 1906,-The M. '.. W. ·. Bro.
Thomas J. Armstrong, Grand Master, presiding; the V.·. W.·. Bro.
R. E. Brett being the Grand Secretary. There are thirty-llight constituent Lodges in the Jurisdiction. There was a full attendance at
the present Annual, and also the representatives of twenty-four Sister
Grand Jurisdictions; there were nine Past Grand Masters present.
We note fine portraits on the opening pages of M.-. W. ·. Elie
Harrison Sr., Grand Master in 1878-79-80; Coote M. Chambers, of
1881, and the present one, Thomas J. Armstrong, in his full and elegant dress.
·
His Address was brief. He announced the passing to rest of '
beloved Brethren with whom they had been associated in their chosen
work as also those of Sist1Jr Jurisdictions; he then reported his
offici~l acts during the recess of the Grand Lodge. No important
decisions were reported. The Deputy Grand Master· and also the
District Deputies reported the .condition of the districts. The routine.
business being concluded, the election of officers was held, and M.:.
W.·. Bro. James Hargrave Schofield was chosen Grand Master. T~e
v". w" . R. E. Brett, Grand Secretary, was re-elected. All were ~n·­
stalled by M.·. W.:. Bro. Angus McKeown. The Grand Master named
the Standing Committees, and, after prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the
Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form and Proclaimed by the
Grand Marshal.

•

An e;,:cellent Report on Correspondence, and an e;,:haustive one, :
wherein all the legitimate Bodies of the Masonic World were re- ·
viewed was submitted by the Correspondent, M.-. A.:. DeWolf
s:riiith.' The paper is an· able. and instructive one, and, ~ad we at our
disposal more "leeway," would not be pass~d ove~ ~~thout a thorough e:J:amination. The 270 pages, how&ver, is proh1b1tive.

,

DELAWARE.

As a preface to its Centennial, the Grand Lodge of Delaware
held two Special Communications: One on June 17th, at ·Wilmington, to place the corner-stone of E'a stlake M. E. Church, and ~he
second to place the corner-stone of ''Doric'' Lodge, No. 30, of Mill- ·
ville.

•

11

The Grand Lodge · of Delaware held its One Hundredth Annual
Communication in Masonic Temple, Wilmington, October 4, 1905,·The M.·. W. :. R. Henry Young, Grand Master, presiding.• Delaware
has twenty-two live Lodges on its roll, and nearly all were represented; there were also present thirty-two representatives of Sister
Grand Jurisdictions, There were eleven Past Grand Masters present.
The Grand Master made a brief Address, in which he announced
~he death of Past Grand Master James S:· Dobb, with an affectionate
and fraternal notice of his life and character.
Visitors were present from the Grand Lodges of New Jersey and
Pennsylvania. No important business was transacted.
Bro. Lewis H. Jackson submitted the Report on Correspondence,
a faithful review of the Grand Lodge World and its doings, condensed within the space of one hundred pages. We a're pleased .to
find him at his old post, and in greatly improved health.
M.:. W..:. Levin Irving Handy, Grand Master; R.·. W. :. Benjamin
F. Bartram, Grand Secretary; W.:. Bro. Lewis H. Jackson, Correspondent
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No less than eight preliminaries to the Annual Communication of
the Grand Lodge of I' The District,'' held in December, 1905, are
recorded in the Journal of this Jurisdiction.,The first on March 1st, for the paying of the last sad rites to the
remains of iL departed Brother.
On March 11th, for the e:J:emplification of work.
On May 10th, Reports of Committees and general business.
A Special on May 17th, for a placing of the corner-stone of an·
Eastern Star building.
On the 22d, to place the corner-stone of Kimmel Memorial Hall.
On May 25th, for the constitution of ''King Solomon's'' Lodge .
On the 26th, Reports of Commi.ttees, and on the 23d for the consideration of general business and Constitutional Amendments.
The Ninety-fifth Annual was held in Masonic Temple, Washington,
December 20, 1905,-The M.·. W.~. Lurtin R. Ginn, Grand Master,
presiding. The constituent Lodges of the District number thirtyone. All were represented~ and there was a full atten~ance of offieers, members and visitors.
The Grand Master, in. his most e;,:cellent Address, gives the condition of the Jurisdiction, as . all that could be desired, progress and
prosperity, go hand in hand, au'd remain with them. Of the peddlers
he sa_ys:

13

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"The attempt during the year to form a Lodge in this Jurisdictio11- under the authority of the clandestine and spurious· organization called• the 'Pinney Grand Lodge of Ohio' resulted in failure ..
I took such action at the time towards thwarting this ignoble effort
as seemed to me proper and in consonance With the dignity. of this
Grand Lodge, with the result that t)l.e unscrupulQUS charlatans who
were intent on peddling the so-called 'degrees' of Masonry left the .
Jurisdiction without any accomplishments to their credit."
A portrait of Grand Master Ginn appears on the opening page of
th"is number of the Journal.
An excellent ' Report on Qorresponde~ce is submitted by.. Past
Grand Master George W. Baird, who gives a review of the doings
of seventy-five Grand Jurisdictions of the Masonic World in a paper
of 200 pages.
M.:. W.:. Bro. Walter A. Brown was chosen Grand Master, and
R.·. W.·. Bro. Arvine W. Johnston was re-elected Grand Secretary, of
course.

Reports were received from the Board of General purposes, and
considered.. Matters concerning the formation and relations with the
Grand Lodge of Queensland were considered.
Grand Lodge adjourned.

12

ENGLAND
The United Grand Lodge of England held a Quarterly Communication at Freemasons' Hall, London, March 7, 1906..
The R. ·. Hon. the Earl -of Amherst, Pro-Grand Master of the
Throne, the V.:. W.:. Sir Edward Letchworth, F. S. A., being the
Grand Secretary.
There was a full attendance of Grand Officers, Past ~rand Officers,
Masters and Wardens of Lodges, and distinguished visitors.
The Grand Lodge was opened in Ample l!'orm, with solemn prayer.
A letter was received from the Queen, in reply to a message of
~ondolence from Grand Lodge to ·Her Majesty on a recent bereavement.
The election of a Grand Master being first in order, after being
nominated, H. R. H. the Duke of Connaught and Strathearn was
unanimously re-elected by acclamation, and after his Proclamation
Bro. L. S. Winsloe was elected Grand Treasurer.
The Report of the Board of General Purposes was considered,
which, being mostly routine loca.l busineBB, will not be !\Ommented
on here.
No important business was transacted, and Grand Lodge closed in
Amplo Form, with solemn prayer.
.
Its Second Quarterly was held June 6, 1906, the M._:. W.·. the
Right Hon. the Earl AII).herst, Pro-Grand Master, on the Throne.
A full attendance of Officers and Past Grand Officers. ·

FLORIDA.

r

This Grand Lodge held its Seventy-seventh Annual in the City
of Jacksonville, January 16, 1906,-M.·. W.·. Charles W. Johnson,
Grand Master; the R.·. W.:. Wil:t>er P. Webster being the Grand
Secretary.
The Grand Lodge held five Special Communications, four for the
placing of corner-stonas and one for dedication purposes.
Florida bears on its Grand Lodge roll 158 Lodges, and of these
149 were represented at the present .Communication. The total membership is about seven thousand. Six new Lodges were chartered at
the present Annual. Thirty-five other Grand Lodge Jurisdictions
were represented.
.
Brother Silas B. Wright, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, submits his usual excellent Report.
The Grand Master and Grand Secretary. were re-elected.

ILLINOIS.
The Grand Lodge of Illinois held its Sixty-sixth Annual Communication in Medinah Temple, Chicago, October 3, 1906,-The M.·. W.·.
William B. Wright, Grand Master, presiding; the R.·. W.·. J. H. C.
Dill being Grand Secretary. Sev.en hundred and twelve Lodges were
represented, together with forty other Grand Jurisdictions.
The Grand Master's AddreBB is an able paper, but he confines it
to the business record of this immense Jurisdiction, which has
reached the record pf 738 Chartered Lodges, with a membership of
74,741. A number of interesting portraits of honored members of
this Grand Lodge appear in this number of the Journal-Grand
Master Wright's on the .opening page, and Past Grand Mastera H. P.
H. Bromwell of 1865, Jerome R. Gorin of 1866-67, Harmon G. Reynolds of 1868-69, Dewitt C. Greiger of 1870-71, and ;James A. Hawley
of 1872-73. Interesting views of the Masonic Homes at Sullivan and
in Chicago are also in evidence. Five Charters "were granted to new
Lodges, the last number being 882, and several Dispensations were
continued.

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

One of the Grand Stewards, Bro. W.·. M.:. Burbank, was ill. A
Committee was appointed to wait upon him,. and convey to him the
sympathy of the Grand Lodge. That Committee, ili its Report, called
upon a friend and Brother of the Steward, who had accompanied
. them to point the way to Brother Burbank's home, to supplement
their Report, which he did in the following words, which so impress
us that we place them on record· here. The chaperon in this case,
Bro. Edward Cook, said:

''I don't know that I can add anything to the very touching and
appropriate Report that has been made by the Committee.·
''It is perhaps proper to give a little further information as to
the conditions in this case.
"The Brother's office and home have long been at 3035 South
Park avenue, at the corner of Thirty-first ·street, where he and his
wife grew old together, until two or three years ago, when she went
to visit a son in California, and died there, since 'which time this
dear Brother, who is nc,w approaching his eighty-fifth birthday, has
lived alone. The growing years have made it impossible for him to
remain in the active practice of his profession as a physician. J!:is
income has dwindled. But the officers and members of 'Lakeside'
Lodge, No. 730, of which he is a Past Master, and its most honored
member, have been true Brethren to him. They have looked after
his wants. They have seen to it that he was provided for. He has'
been kept in his dear old home to which he is much attached. The.y
have engaged the services of a capable and kind woman of mature .
years, who spends her time in caring for him. All this the Brethren
of 'Lakeside' Lodge, the Chapter and Commandery have provided for.
.He is in comfortable circumstances so far as environment and daily
wants are concerned, and. he has the attention and heartfelt love and
sympathy of his Brethren-all of which he abundantly appreciates.
"I feel constrained, Most Worshipful Grantl Master, to say a
word further. At the solicitation of the Committee which you ap.p ointed, they not being particularly familiar with that portion of
the city and its means of transportation, I went with them on th~s ·
visit as a sort of" pilot, or, as they were pleased to term me, a
chaperon," and they being rather young ( f) needed some one to guide
their footsteps, and so it fell to my good fortune to go with them,
upon a mission such as rarely falls to the lot of man.
''Here were three Brethren, aged respectively 71, 76 and 77 years,
who have not been honored be~ause of their appointment to a place
in the official roster ~f this Grand Lodge, but who have honored us
and our institution by accepting the position of Grand Stew&rds,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

15

going to visit the fourth member of that beautiful group who stand
as the noblest exemplars of what is best in life and b t · M
aeonry
es m
and . w h o so well represent the four cardinal vi·r t ues, T emperance'
FQrtitude, Prudence and Justice.
·
'
"Brethren, the scene wh.i ch presented itself when these three
Brethren gathered about the couch of the fo·urth
h
.
.
, was suc as mortals
seldom witness. It was a picture of Brotherhood, eublime in
· its
·
pathos; and most beautiful in its impressiveness. Just th"nk 0 f •ti
Here was this once stalwart specimen• of humanity long 8 it
i d.
·
b
.
•
o s rong an
vigorous, ut now stricken by age infirmities laym· g
t t
h· b d h .
•
pros ra e upon
is e , p ysically disabl€d, but mentally strong and morall
aT
•th 1
.
'
y pure,
•
w i, mg, wi c ear mward ·vision for the future· his eyes wer
·
di · h
'
e growmg m; e was e~idently listening for the 'knocking at the door!'
And shall we not say, 'He is already beginning ·to hear the fo~tstepe
of the angels!'
'_'Bu: he is approaching the end firm in the cons·c iousness of
havmg hv-ed an upright life; of having been a just and loyal· Mason;
one. of t;he best exemplars of the teachings of our institution, and,
having hved thus, he can view the end calmly and with a
b'd'
faith.
'
n a 1 mg
''His physician~ tell us he may make a partial recovery, and be
spared to us :or some months, but they give no ground to hope for
strength sufficient to en:i-ble him to get about.
"He appreciated your remembrance and the visit of his colleagues
beyond anything that I have words to express. He wanted you all to
know how thoroughly he felt it, how ,much he thanked you, and how
dearly he loved you.
''And as we turned away the unbidden tears would come to the
eye. And yet with faith and confidence we could but say: 'Let my
~eath be like that of the righteous man, and may my last end be
like hie! ' " ·
.
The usual routine business closed with the elect°ioh of officers for
the ensuing ;year.· The M.-. w.... Chester E, Allen was chosen Grand
Master, and the R.". w ... J. H. Dill was re-eleeted Grand Secretary.
Past Grand Master Joseph Robbins, as the Committee on Correspondence, will continue to illustrate the importance of that Committee. We should like to publish the introduction to his Report, but
we must forbear this time. We will, however, quote his comment
upon the '' vermiformie" Report of our Committee:

16

17

. REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

''The Grand Representative system was abolil!hed on the recommendation of the Co=ittee on Address, who say that it ·is as useless
as the appendix vermiformis in the human body, a remark whereat
we protest because the Almighty may not have yit disclosed to the
California Committee the last word concerning the appendix against
which they take up the hue and· cry. · To vindicate the truth of
history we are also compelled to take exception to the statement
that many of the Grand Lodges are dispensing with the system, as
only a few of them have done so. For a more weighty reason we
desire to recur to an evil which this incident serves to illustrate
just as well as though something more was at stake than the unill}portant question whether a Grand Lodge should keep up the simulacrum of a diplomatic court or not. We refer to reporting by the
Committee on Grand. Master's Address of recommendations j.nvolving
final legislative action. This is outside the proper function of such
a Committee, whose sole duty it should be to recommend the proper
reference of the various topics treated in the Address, that each
subject· requiring action may be presented separately and in a digested
form to the Grand Lodge. This incident illustrates the widest possible
departure from their proper sphere of action by the Committee, because they dealt with a subject not referred to them, the Grand Representative system not being so much as alluded to in the Address.''

''The ·Grand Secretary then presented the A11nual Reports of the
Grand Secretary and Librarian, together with the Financial Reports
of Grand Master, Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary and Lib:r:arian,
in printed form.
"Ordered, That the Report of .Grand Secretary be referred to
Co=ittee on Grand Master's Address, that of Library to the Com·
mittee on Grand Lodge Library, and the Financial· Reports, under the
law, to the Committee on Finance.''

IOWA.

Bro. Parvin embellishes his work with affectionate memorial
tributes to the veteran Grand Secretaries and all-around Freemasons,·
Bros. J. D. Vinci!, Samuel Manning Todd and Oliver A. Whittemore.
Green be the memories of the illustrious trio. Handsome port raits
accompany the tributefl.
His memorials also to the dead Grand Masters of Iowa, accompanied with the portraits of such Past' Grand Masters, Van Baun,
McClanhan and Dewey, is the encouragement of the practice too often
neglected-remembrance of our de.ad.
The M.·. W.·. William H. Norris was chosen Grand Master.
The R. ·. W.:. Newton R. Parvin was re-elected Grand Secretary.

'

The Grand Lodge of Iowa held its Sixty-second Annual Communication in the Grand Opera House, Davenport, June 6, 1905,-The
M.·. W.:. Sumner Miller, Grand Master, the R.:. W.:. Newton R.
Parvin being Grand Secretary. The Grand Officers were all present,
with the exception of the Senior Grand Steward, and there was a_
large attendance of Past Grand Officers, and 454 of the 502 constituent
Lodges were represented.
The portrait of the Grand Master, Sumner Miller, on the opening
page of this fine book, is, in our opinion, a splendid portrait of a
handsome man, and, in. fact, the book, as a whole, is a thing to bl!'
admired.
. ·
The Grand Master's Address was a practical recital of the past
year's business, advisi:a.g no radical departure from present progress. ·
The Grand Master of Iowa may be content with present conditions, when his Army rolls show a membership of 35,729 Master
Masons, of which total 1,146 were the accredited net gain of the year..
As a matter of practice to be followed by Grand Lodges, we quote
the following from the Grand Lodge of Iowa's Order of Business:

The ''after painting, '' the last 200 pages or so, of the good
ship Iow a, is commanded by Admiral Joseph E. Morcombe, and for
a diagnosis of the condition of the Craft wheresoever dispersed.
The writer is a believer in the progress and increasing prosperity
of the organization of Freemasonry and its in:lluence in the affairs
of nations and the people of all nations.
Since writing the foregoing we have received the Iowa Journal
for 1906, a beautiful book, with one of "Bat hers' " steel-engraved
portraits on the opening page. We think Grand Master W. H. Nqrris
may well be proud of his surroundings.
The Grana Lodge of Iowa held ~ts Sixty-third Annual in Des
Moines, June 5, 1906,- The M.·. W.·. William Henry Norris, Grand
Ma.ster, presiding; the ·R.·. W.·. Bro. Newton Ray Parvin being the
Grand Secretary. l<'our hundred and seventy -six of the 505 Lodges
in the Jurisdiction were represented.
We will not attempt to review the proceedings at this late day,
and we only mention it to say that the session was harmonious, the
Jurisdiction prosperous and a credit to Freemasonry.
The M.·. W.: . William Fiske Cleveland was elected Grand Master,
and the R.·. W.·. Newton Ray Parvin was re-elected Grand Beere'
tary.
Bro~ Joseph E. Morcombe continues his good work.
26

..

18

19

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNl.A.

INDIANA.

M.· .. W.·. Alfred W. Emery was ·elected Grand Master1 and M.·.
W. ·. Calvin W, Prather, Grand Master in 1880-82, was re-elected
Grand Secretary, and M,., W.·. Daniel McDonald, Grand Master in .
1875-76 was continued as Chairman of Correspond~nce. His present
Report is an elegant paper of 123 pages, in wnich the conditions of
the several Jurisdictions is pl8.6ed before the inquirer intelligently and
without prejudice.

The G:rand Lodge of Indiana held its Eighty-fourth Annual in
Grand Lodge Hall, Indianapolis, May 23, 1905,-The M. :: w .. · George
E. Grimes, Grand Master, presiding. The num~er of Lodges enroll~d
is 531, with a membership of 42,627, with four ne~ Lodges under Dispensation. Five hµndred and seventeen of the ~31. chartered Lod~es
were represented in the present Annual Commumcat10n, together with
thirty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. ·That the Grand L~dge of In- .
diana is progressive and prosperous its net gain of 2,428 in membership for the past year. gives evidence.
.
The Grand Master compliments the Grand Secretary for faithful
service. He .sayi; of Bro. Prather : ''Had it not been for his kind a~d
efficient help I would have be€n tempted to have given a sii;:n of distress and surrendered the office.''
Ch~rters were granted for the forming and opening of six new
Lodges.
.
A fine portrait of the Grand Master-elect appears on the op.;.n~n~
page. The Committee on Ways and Means, considering the proposition to establish a· "Grand Charity Fund," reported as follows, llond
t.h e Report was concurred in:
"Your Committee are, therefore, of the 6pinion that the tru.e
meaning arid intent of Masonic. Charity. ca~ be the be.tt.er exemphfied by eaoh of the Lodges in their respective cotnm~mhes than by
any Committee app<iinted by this ?rand. Lodge .so wid~l; separated
from those who may b~ in need of immediate assistance.
.
Chairman Emerson E. Ballard of Committee on Necrology'. rn
closing his Report, gives expression to liis meaning in the.Be beautiful
lines:
.
"The services of this hour demonstrate that we have not forgotten
our dead· that our souls are thrilled afresh by recalling the virtues
1
of those for whom we now mourn. It would take only a little more
eflort to extend the same respect and charity we give the dead to all
the living· and how. the world might thus be brightened! Take then
this sugg:stion, that from every coffin, mingled with the p:rfume of
the flowers spread by loving hands to-hide its hor:ors _fro~ view, ther~
should rise a sweeter incense in the form of an inspirat10n to all the
livii:tg to weave into their lives with fresh vigor the. virtues of the
dead. This is immo.rtality here and .now. Let us seize hold of and
pqssess it. "
.
.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand Master's ,Jewel by the Senior Grand Deacon, on behalf of the Grand
Lodge, in a most eloquent and impressive Address, and several Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions addressed· the Grand Lodge.

KANSAS.
The Grand Lodge of Kal).sas held its Fiftieth Annual Communication in Representative Hall, Topeka; Februaory 21, 1906,-'l'he M.'.
W. ·. Samuel R. Peters, Grand Master, presiding, the R. :. W. :. Albert
K. Wilson being the Grand Secretary.
This Grand Jurisdiction has registered upon its Roil of Lodges
373 chartered Lodges, with one under Dispensation, with a member.ship of 27,167: of the Lodges 305 were represented at the present Sessfon, with the Representatives of forty-four other Grand Jurisdictions.
Fourteen Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
•
The Grand ~faster was kept busy with the placing of corner-stones,
dedication of halls, and visiting his coiistituent Lodges.-with an eye
out 'for the Home at Wichita. We note no matter of special importance in the routine of legislation. The decisions of the Grand Master .
were few ·a nd were approved by the CoII\mittee on Jurisprudence, and
affirmed by the Grand Lodge.
An excellent address was delivered by Bro. Cha.a. G. Dunlap
of "Acacia" Lodge, No. 9. A Charter Wlj.S· granted "Dwight"
Lodge, U. D.
It was decided .to hold the.next,. the Fifty-first Annual, at Wichita,
the Session to commence }'ebruary 20, 190·7. A number of the Officers,
members and visitors to Grand Lodge assembled in the Auditorium
and celebrated the Semi-Centennial of the ·Grand Lodge. A brilliant
program included a fine progi:am of musical exercises, and the reminiscences of eloquent brethren.
·
Bro. William M. Shaver, Past Grand Master and Chairman of
Correspondence, submits another of his most excellent Reports. A
complete r'e view of the Masonic World, ccn1densed within a paper of
two hundred page.a. We quote his notice of our legislation last year
as of interest to our l·eaders:
~'We noted last year a recominenda tion, among others, of. the
then Grand Master for the abolishing of the system of Grand Representatives as a 'useless, cumbersome custom and promotive of inharmony.' No action was taken last year, but the Grand Secretary

20

~1

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAN:D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

brought up this year the recommendations of the Grand Master as
'unfinished business.' The Special Committee on the Address of the
Grand Master and the Report of the Grand Secretary take charge of
the questions of unfimshed business, and recommend their reference
to the Committee on jurisprudence, but in the ne.xt paragraph say:

Officer in . some other Masonic Gra:ad Bodies, and our experience has
b11en that some of the most pleasant correspondence in the office is
with our Grand Representatives.

" 'It will be patent to any one who will give the matter of the
appointment of Representatives to and from other Grand Lodges
proper consideration, that this custom is as useless as the appendix
vermiformis in the human body. It seems to us that the custom must
have originated in a desire to decorate members with a mere title.
The only proper way for one Grand Lodge to communicate with an~ther is through the Grand Masters.
Your Committee can see no
necessity for the continuance of the custom, and. therefore recommend
that it be abolished. Many of the Grand Lodges are dispensing therewith, and we think the Grand Lodge of California should do likewise. '

'' 'The record states that the Report was concurred in and the
recommendations accompanying were unanimously adopted.
"We do not find any record of Report on this matter by the Committee on Jurisprud,ence, and our guess would be that the adopting of
the recommendations of a Special Committee of reference would
have no legislative force, especially in view of the fact that the office
of Grand Representative and the power of the Grand Master to appoint and accredit such Grand Representatives is recognized in the
Constitution of the Grand Lodge of California.
''Our attention, however, has been called to an official communication received by our Grand Secretary from the Grand Secretary of the
Grand Lodge of California, in which this recommendation is quoted as
the action of the Grand Lodge, and we therefore take it that the
Grand Secretary at least is treating the system as legislated out of
California.
"We admit that we like the Grand Representative system and
are not in sympathy with this expression of the Special Committee
out in California. Of course, the system makes some additional work
for a Grand Secretary, and, if properly conducted, it costs a Grand
Lodge something to maintain it, but we are constrained to believe that
it is worth all it costs. It is possibly true that the custom originateq
in a desire to decorate some Masons with a title, but many Masons
appreciate it, and the natural effect is to create and foster a strong
feeling of interest and fraternity in the accredited representative
toward the Grand Lodge he represents. This in itself is worth the
work and the expense. The writer has the honor to be the Recording

''The argument of the Committee that the 'only proper way for
one Grand Lodge to communicate with another is through the Grand
Masters' is amusing. The same argilment might dispense with Grand
Masters, as every practical Grand Lodge man knows that ninety per
cent of all the correspondence between Grand Lodges is conducted
through . the offices of the Grand Secretaries.
"It may be that t1;te office of Grand Representative is as useless
as the vermiform appendix in the human body, but we are skeptical
as to the wisdom of many so-called medical authorities upon this latter proposition. We are just old-fashioned enough to prefer the judgment of the Creator, .who placed that little sac in our body, and no
meilical carver gets ours without a fight.''
A feature of this number of the Journal is the photographic group
of appointed Grand Officers, every one a future Grand Master.
M.·. W. :. Thomas L. Bond was chosen Grand Master; R.:. W.:.
Albert K. Wilson was re-elected Grand Secretary, and Past Grand
Master William M. Shaver was CQntinued as Chairman of Correspondence.

KENTUCKY.
The Grand Lodge of Kentucky held its One Hundred and Fifth
Annual in Masonic Temple,_ Louisville, October 17, 1905,-The M.:.
W.:. Roland H. C. Rhea, Grand Master, presiding, R.·. W.:. Henry B.
Grant being Grand Secretary.
Kentucky has on its Roll 486 chartered · Lodges and eleven under
Dispensation, nearly all of which were in attendance by their Representatives.
The Grand Master was brief-few visitations reported and no dec1s1ons. Eight Charters were granted to Lodges under Dispensation
and three Dispensations continued. We are pleased to report the following action by the Grand Lodge:
·
"Resolved, By the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Kentucky,
F. and A. M., in Annual Session assembled, that we heartily endorse
the movement inaugurated by 'Lexington' Lodge, No. 1, in arousing
the citizens of the State in the importance of restoring to its former
beauty the monument erected to the memory of Past Grand Master
Henry Clay in the cemetery at Lexington, and we would respectfully
urge the Governor of the State to bring this matter before the next

22

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Legislature with the recommendation that it appropriate a sufficient
sum to re~~r. the damage to this monument, thereby removing the
cause of criticism and censure which has been placed on the fair name
of our Stat~, ''
"P. ·. G. '•. M.'. Thoe. S. Petit 'o ffered the following amendment:
" 'That a Committee of :five members of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky be appointed by its Grand Master to wait upon the Governor
and at~end the ~ession of the ne:X:t General Assembly and present this
resolution and mform them of the action and desires of this Grand
Body.'
''The amendment was adopted, whereupon the resolution, as
amended, was unanimously adopted.''
Past Grand Master William W. Clarke submits his. usual excellent
Re~ort ~n ?orres~ndence, in a paper of about one hundred pages.
Cahforma is reviewed for the Administration of Grand Master
Nutting, which is noticed with approval.
The Lodge memben!hip of Kentucky is about 27,000.
M". W." James Garnett of Columbia was elected· Grand Masterand, as a matter of course, R.·. w ... Bro. Henry B. Grant is continued
as Grand Secretary.
Past Grand Master W. W. Clarke is also continued as Chairman.
of Correspondence.
LOUISIANA.
The Grand Lodge of Louisiana held its Ninety-fourth Annual in
the city of New Orlilans, February 5, 1906,-and remember Brother
Lam~ert, when you call the Roll on February 5th, remember that it's
~ur birthday. The~"· w ... L. P. Delah<?nssaye, Grand Master, presidmg, R.'. w ... Bro. Richard Lambert being the Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge has registered on its Roll of Lodges 175 chartered
~odges, of which number 125 were ~presented, together with twenty'
six other . Grand Jurisdictions.
This Jurisdiction has also eleven constituent Lodges under Dispensation. The Grand Secretary report!! a net gain in membership of
585 for the past year, Aside from the routine business of Grand
Lodge, thE) Session was occupied in the consideration of the. creation
of ·a fund for the fu~ui:e relief of aged and indigent Master Mason&
and the widows .?-nd orphans of .d eceased brethren.
.
The Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions ;ere received
and welcomed by t~e Gr~nd Master, but the item of legislation giviµg
us the greatest satisfaction is contained in the following:

23

"Bro. Richard La.mbert having retired temporarily, the Grand
Master appointed R. ·. W. ·. Br-os. Marsh and L. C. Allen to escort him
into the Grand Lodge room, and M:. W.:. Bro. A. C. Allen of 'Franklin' Lodge, No. 57, P. G. M., then addressed Bro. Lambert, ~n substance, as follows:
'' 'Words are not adequate to express the full meaning of comp1iment and appreciation intended to you by this Grand Lodge of
.Masons, which you have seen grow from a .smali beginning to its

•

present proportions.
" 'For a number .of years this Grand Jurisdiction has labored
under a burden of debt, consequent upon the building of this Masonic
Temple and its subsequent maintenance. We have it to say, and it is
a matter of record, that when you were approached in regard to
certain matters of retrenchment which would further the interest of
the cause which we had most at heart that you had no hesitatio:r;1 in
including your own salary.
'' 'As a small token of the apJ>reciation of this Grand Lodge of the
sacrifice by you t.h en made, and under which you have labored for a
number of years, I am directed by the Grand Master to state to you
that an appropriation of $1,000.00 has just been passed as a small
token and to show their deep appreciation of the services which you
have rendered in the past to. this M.-. W.:. the Grand Lodge of
Louisiana.'
."Bro. _Lambert responded and thanked the Grand Lodge very
appropriately and assured them of his deep appreciation.''
Bro. Herman C. Duncan contributes his usual !!cholarly Report on
Correspondence, in which. he gives a fund of information concerning
the various branches of the Masonic tree for the benefit of ''seekers
after Masonic light.'' ·
M.-. W.' . Bro. L. C. Allen (of "Caddo" Lodge, No. 179) was
chosen Grand M.aster. "How much better it would be if the M.:. W.:.
Bro. has a name, say it was Leonidas, Luther, Lemuel,. Luke or Levi,
but our Louisiana brethren seem barren of names." And the ·R,.. W.-.
Richard Lambert was re-elected Grand Secretary; R.:. W.-. Bro. Herman Cope Duncan continues as Chairman, or, rather, as Correspondent.
IDAHO.
An EmeFgent Communication was held by the Grand Lodge of
Idaho at Boise, December 23, 1904, for the performance of the l~st
sad rites at the funeral cer-emonies llf Past Grand Master George
Laird Shoup, M.'. W.'. Jonas W. BTown, formerly of California, as
Grand Master.

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

This Grand Lodge held its Thi
.
.
ber 12, 1905,-The M . W . Al rty-e1ghth Annual at Boi:se, Septe:rn.
the R. .. W ... Theoph.. ~. R~nd ~erbt ?ordon, Grantl Master, presiding
L d
a
emg ·Grand Secretar
Th·
'
.o ge11 are registered O!l the Roll of Lod .
.
Y·
irty-five
t10n, all of which were represented gee, with o.ne under DispensaGrand .Jurisdictions.
' together with fourteen other
The Grand Master in his Address ~
. .
.
.the working condition of the Lod es
akes an interestmg report of
with matters concerning th
g ' although he has been troubled
e arrest of a Chart
d
ment of its financial affairs I h'
1 .
er an the settle. d m
. his
. work:
·
n is c os1ng he says, of assistance
.
receive
"Idesire
· to especially mention and
W. Randall, Past Grand Master Ge~r
~hank, Grand Secretary Theo.
1
g_e Amshe and Past Grand Master
.Jonas W. Brown whose c
'
ounse s and assistanc h
b
urable help to me durin th
e ave een of immeasg
e past year."
The Roll of Lodge membershi .
. . .
G
E K
p in the .Jurisdiction records 2 056
'
.
eo. . eppner, Chairman: of Committee o
a very interesting review of the cond't'
n Corresp.ondenc_e, gives
Report of one hundred pages.
1 ion of the Masonic world in ·Q,is
M.-. w,., .Jeremiah W Robinson
w,., Theophilus W Rand~ll
was elected Grand Master; R ...
E. Keppner of Mo~cow was ;::p~:-i~;c!e~:~and Secretary, and G~.
on Correspondence.

e

airman of the Committee

MICHIGAN.
The Grand Lodge of Michi an held .
.
munication in the city of G g d
. its Sixty-second Annual Com.
ran Rapids May 22d
.
H 1gh
Twelve,-The M.-. w,., .John R
'
, commencmg at
the R.-. W . Lou B w·
b .
owson, Grand Master, presiding
. .
.
msor emg the G
d S .
'
dred and eighty four of the 395 L d
.ran
ecretary. Three hun0
resented, together with thi t _ .
ges m the Jurisdiction were rep1
Address of Welcome on beh:i: ~ ~~ ot~er Grand .Jurisdictions. An
Grand Lodge to the city B oH e city of Grand Rapids welcomed
Grand Lodge of New
kro. · A. ~homas, Representative of the
0 r: , was received with G
d
addressed Grand Lodge.
ran Honors and

y

The Grand Master in his Address referr
of brethren claimed by the Grim T
. ed to t.he unusual number
Past Grand Masters, two Past Gra:;a;t sm~e their last Annual, five
the Craft having been called t .
ha~l~ms, and 804 members of
his •.tribute to the absent ones ~e c::~~:the river of death. In closing

-

25

''Official notice of the death of these distinguished brethren has
been sent to the constituent Lodges and the Grand Lodges with which
we have fraternal relations, and the Charters and Great Lights of
Masonry have been ordered draped for sixty days as a tribute of
respect to their memory.
"Never in the history of our Grand Lodge have so many distinguished members been, called from us in so short a period of time,
and it seems to me fitting that a memorial session should be held at
this time that'brethren more eloquent than I may speak on the lives
of these good men. Therefore, I ask you all to be present in this hall
this ·evening at 8:30 o'clock to listen to the special program that has
been arranged as a tribute to their memory.''
He reported the constitution of seven Lodges under Charters heretofore granted, and the granting of seven Dispensations for still
newer Lodges.
The Grand Master reported visitations involving the travel of more
than 14,000 miles. He severely scored .t he practice of electioneering
among the brethren.
Grand Secretary Winsor made an exhaustive Report, and the
Grand Lecturer's Report gives evidence of intelligent, faithful, pains·
taking service.
The Board of Control of the Michigan Masonic Home presented a
detailed Report of the transactions at the Home.
The Grand Lodge met in evening session for Memorial Services in
remembrance of the brethren who had passed to rest during the last
year. Addresses were made by Brothers Charles L. Stevens, Leo A.
Caro, Abraham T. Metcalf, Henry Chamberlin, Frank T. Lodge, Lou B.
Winsor, Roscoe W. Broughton, Hugh Mccurdy, and .John .J. Carton.
In the routine of business many Committee reports were considered
and disposed of. The election of Officers being in order, M. ·. W. :.
Charles L. Stevens was elected Grand Master and R.·. W.-. Bro. Lou
Winsor, Past Grand Master, was ·re-elected Grand Secretary. The
Officers were installed. The retiring Grand Master was presented
with a Past Grand Master's Jewel.
The Grand Treasurer reported having received and transmitted to
the M.-. W.:. Motley H. Flint, Grand Master for the Relief ~'und of
California, $3,990.77. The Standing Committees were appointed and
.Grand Lodge closed.
·
Past Grand Master Lou Winsor, Chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence, or, rather, Correspondent, submits an excellent Report of 290 pages, a fair and impartial review of ~he various .Juris·
dictions composing the Masonic World.

26

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFOR~IA.

27

MANITOBA.
The Grand Lodge of Manitoba held fi
.
.
during the year The first t B
ve Special Communication11
1
.
a
a goine July 5 1904 f
1 .
corner-stone of the Angl ·
h
'
'
' or P acmg the
Napimka, to place the co1:::r.:t urch; the second in Masonic Rall, at
in Gladstone, August 18th t o~e of St. George's church; the third,
church; the fourth, t
l' o pace the corner-stone of All Saints'
church at N eepawa A:g:e:~~t!he corner-stone of the Presbyterian
to ~lace the corner:stone of the Pua:i~ t:ehfifth, ~t ~ustin, April 26th,
The Thirtieth Annual C
. c . c ool bmlding at Austin.
. .
ommunicat10n was held · th
.
W mnipeg,
June 14 l9Q 5 -Th M
m
e city of
' R . ' W . eJ · · · W · ··· Andrew Ch·is.h o1m, Grand
M aster, presiding the
'
· · · L · d· ames A · Ovas bei ng Gran d S ecretary.
There are seventy-nine
a membership of 4 786 of ho. ghes on the Grand Lodge registry, with
'
•
w ic number forty fo
~ogether with thirty-five th
G
- ur were represented,
Past Grand Masters wer ~ ertt rdand Lodge Jurisdictions. Eleven
e in a en ance.
The Grand Master 's Address w
•
acted during the recess of Grand Lo;s confined .to .the busi~ess transtwelve Districts reported th
dT g.e. The D1str1ct Deputies for the
tive Districts.
.
e con i ions and prospects in their respecThe Grand Secretary reported
t
. .
512, ~ith a total· of 4 786 Th~ a ne g~n m the me~bership of
At the election of Offi:ers .fo th usual. routme of business prevailed.
r
e ensmng year the M
w w· .
G. Scott was chosen Grand Mast
d p
· · · · ·· ilham
er,
an
ast
Grand
Mast
J
0 vas was re-elected Grand Secretary.
er ames A.
. Tbe Officers-elect were installed, the Standin
pomted, and the Grand Lodge closed.
g Committees apThere was no Report on Correspondence.

MINNESOTA.
T.he .Gran.d Lodge of Minnesot'a held i·ts
t
Fifty-third Annual Commumca ion in St. Paul, January 17, 1906,-The M.:, W.·. Henry M.
Tusler, Grand Master, presidin . the R .
.
being the Grand Secretary A~
· · W . .. ·Thomas Montgomery
pears on the openin
a . T ne portrait of the Grand Master ap"
Lodges in this Gragndp Jge . . d·wt~ hundred and twenty-one of the 241
uris ic ion were r
t d
forty-four other Sister Grand Lod es E epresen e ' together wi.th
were in attendance.
g ·
leven Past Grand Masters
The Grand Master repo-rted th
.
·
the forming and· openin
f
e grantrng of five Dispensations for
heretofore chartered ~~. ; : ;. Lod~es and the constitution of two
.
ress is an excellent business paper,

giving his decisions and rulings, visitations and the condition of the
.Turisdiction. Of the services of the Grand Secretary, Bro. Thomas
Montgomery knows best and he says:

'

"The wor~ of this office for the past year has· been arduous and
exacting. I have done my best to serve you and hope my efforts have
been satisfactory to you. My relations with the Grand Master and
all the Officers of the Grand Lodge and the Officers and members of
the Lodges with whom I have c·ome in contact have been of .the most
p,leasant character. It is. a delight as well as honor to serve such
grand men and faithful craftsmen. I regret that the de~ands on my
time have prevented me from taking part in many Lodge functions to
which I have been invited, although I have attended not a few. In
closing, I desire to thank my brethren of the (}rand Lodge for their
past confidence and hope ever to merit a continuation of the same."
Preliminary measures were taken by the appointment of Committees to act. with other Masonic organizations for the completion of
plans for the establishment of a Home.
An Ora.tion was delivered by Bro. Elmer A. King, Grand Orator.
The usual routine of business was transacted, with no special
change of law, practice or custom.
The election of Officers for the ensuing year being in order, the
M.:. W.·. Thomas Morris Crookston was chosen. Grand Master, and the
R. ·. W. :. Thomas Montgomery was re-elected Grand Secretary. The
Committees reported, the appointed Officers were named and all were
installed. The Standing Committees were appointed and Grand Lodge
closed.
Bro. Irving Todd, of Hastings, submits the usual Report of the.
Committee on Correspondence, of which he is Chairman, and the
present is no .exception to the general excellence of his reports.
MONTANA.
· The. Grand Lodge of Montana held a Special Communication in the
town of Sheridan, July 6 1 19051 for the placing ·of the corner-stone of
the Methodist Episcopal church at Sheridan.
A second Special was held at Helena, July 10th, to perform the
last sad rites over the remains of Past Grand Master Wilbur F.
Sanders.
The Forty.-first Annual Communication was held in the city of
Butte, September 20, 1905,-The M. ·.. W. ·. Lew S. Callaway, Grand
Master, presidi~g. Of the sixty chartered Lodges fifty-one were represented, together with thirty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. Eight
Past Grand Masters were in attendance.

28

29

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE. .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Fine portraits of the Grand Master and of 'the deceased Past
Grand Master Wilbur F. Sanders and of Past Junior Grand Warden
Callaway appear in this number of the J'ournal. I~ his Address the
Grand Master in eloquent words paid tribute to the lives and characters of the dead Past Grand Officers, and in spirit dropped again his
sprig of acacia upon their last resting places in remembrance of former
friendship and sincere affection. No business of special importance
was before the Grand Lodge for consideration at the present Session.
Bro. Cornelius Hedges had the same careful supervision over the proceedings as ever and the Committees performed their accustomed
duties, not from choice, but from pure and simple habit. They didn't
know any other way, The election of Officers being in order, the M. ·.
W. ·. Henry L. Frank of Butte was chosen Grand Master and the R. ·.
W. :. Cornelius Hedges was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The appointed Grand OJJi.cers were named, all were installed and
the retiring Grand Master di vested himself of "The Signet Ring,"
which, with elegant words, he presented to his successor. The Standing Committees were appointed, with a Committee to procure and present a testimonial to the retiring Grand Master and Grand Lodge
closed its labors.
Our Brother Hedges' Report on Correspondence was as usual, a
little better than the last. We are so glad that he has · recovered his
health, that we fear we could not judge him impartially even if ~e
went wrong.

A Special was held September 28th, to place the corner-stone of a
Federal building, and on October 11th, for the dedication of Masonic
apartments of "Ezekiel Bales" Lodge; again in November 16th, to
place the corner-stone of a new l<'ederal Building.
On December 13th the last Quarterly was held, the Grand Master
presiding. Two hundred and five Lodges were represented. There
were present four Past Grand Masters, nine Deputies and twenty-three
Past Grand Wardens. A fine steel-engraved portrait appears on the
opening page. Photographic busts of John Paul Jones and a speaking likeness of Benjamin Franklin appear in this number.
Grand Master Sanford delivered his Annual Address, a fine paper.
The Committees reported, the Finance Committee making a splendid
showing of the immense resources of this Great Grand Lodge. The
election of Officers was held and R. ·. W.-. John Albert Blake of Malden was chosen Grand Master, and R.·. W.·. Sereno D, Nickerson was
re-elected Grand Secretary. Prayer was offered by Rev. Bro. Chas. A.
Skinner, Grand Chaplain, and · Grand Lodge closed.
On St. John the Evangelist's Day, December 27th, at the close of
the Masonic year, Grand Lodge assembled in Masonic Temple, Boston,
for the purpose of of installing its Officers-elect and c~lebrating the
Feast of St. J_'ohn the Evangelist. Grand Lodge was opened in Ample
Form, proclamation was made and the Officers-elect were installed, the
Annual Feast of St. John being held after the manner of Masons and
BO closed the 172d anniversary of 'the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.
May her shadow never be less.

MASSACHUSETTS.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts held its First Quarterly in the
Temple, Boston, March 8, 1905,-M. ·. W. ~. Baalis Sanford, Grand
Master. One hundred and fifty-seven Lodges were represented. The
Officers-elect and appointed not present at- the Annual were installed.
Memorials were read and considered. A Special was held March 14th
for the dedication of Masonic apartments.
A Special was hel~ June 6th for the purpose of assisting in the
celebration of the Centennial of ''Amicable'' Lodge. The Grand
Master presided. A Special held on the _10th for participation in the
Centennial of "Mount Carmel" Lodge; and
The usual Quarterly on June 14th,-The Grand Master presiding.
One hundred and twenty-eight Lodges were represented. Several
memorials were presented. The Grand Master appointed a Committee
on Ritual.
The usual Quarterly was held September 13th,-The Grand Master
presiding. One hundred and thirty-two Lodges were represented.
The Committee on Ritual reported.

"
MAINE.
The. Grand Lodge of Maine held its Eighty-sixth Annual Communication in Corinthian Hall, Portland, May 2, 1905,-M. ·. W. :. Hugh R.
Chaplin, Grand Master, presiding. One hundred and ninety-one of the
200 chartered Lodges were represented, together with forty-two other
Grand .Jurisdictions. A fine steel-engraved portrait of Past Grand
Treasurer R.:. W.·. M. F. King appears on the opening page. The
Grand Master read his Annual Address.
The Address is an interesting recital of the business of the recess
with the Grand Master's rulings on matters presented to him for
decision thereon.
The Grand Lodge has registered on its Lodge Roll 200 Lodges, with
a membership of 25,397. Splendid memorial addresses were presented and accepted of Past Grand Masters Horace H. Burbank and
Margius Fayette King.

30

.REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The M.:. M.:. David
~· Wright, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Wisconsin, was
introduced . to Grand Lodge and welcomed
by the G~and Master.
At the annual election of Officers M . W . H h
.
re-elected Grand Master and R . W . .S..t h. . ug R. Chaplin was
Grand Secretary.
'
· ·
· ·
ep en Berry was re-eleoted
The Grand Master announced his
.
stalled by Past G
d M
appomtment.s and all were inran
aster Collamore and Proclamation made
.

i;a~:e ~:~.er;~~::c~ ~:1 !ta~~~:~ C~:m:t~eesthand ~fter

pra;:re
Lodge closed.

'

ap am,

e Grand

Bro. Abro E. Chase, Grand Master in 1887-88 and Ch .
Committee on Corres
d
· airman of the
. pon ence, presented an excellent Report of 150
· t ki
pages. B ro. Chase rs an earne t
think th
t h' ·
s ' pams a ng Cqrrespondent and we
e presen
is best Repo'rt.

MARYLAND.
The Grand Lodge of Mar:land held its Two Hundred nad
seventh Semi-Annual Commu~ication May 9, 1905,-The M :rh~~­
Thomas J. s .h ryock, Grand Master, presiding the R '
. .
. .
M., Isaac being Grand Secretary.
'
.. "!V·:. William
A due representation of Lodges b ·
emg present, the Grand Lodge
was opened.
·

Co:~~ttGrand Master. addressed the Grand Lodge orally. . Reports of

r ees were received A Com 'tt
t
_
d' . R .
.
.
m1 ee o revise Constitution and
an mg egulatron was appointed.
A fine portrait of Dep. Grand Master
James R. Brewer appears
on the opening page.
.

31

(with its band), and a platoon of mounted police, proceeded to the
site of the new building and placed the stone in accordance with
ancient forms and ceremonies. The Grand Lodge returned to the
Temple and at 5 o'clock p. m. resumed the trans3:ction of business.
fispensations were granted £or the forming and opening of three new
Lodges. The Grand Lodge was called_ off at six p. m., proceeded to the
banquet hall and retura,ed at 7 :30 and ~ailed on.
Past Deputy Grand Master Fetting was called to preside. The
parts of the Constitution referring to the election of Grand Officers
was read.
M.-. W.:. Bro. Th9mas J. Shryock was unanimously chosen Grand
Master. How time flies. At the Ninety-ninth Annual of this Grand
Lodge, held in November, 1885,· the . aforesrtid Thomas J. Shryock was
elected Grand Master of Masons· in Maryland, and it's been going on
ever since.
The 'R. ·• W. ·. William M. Isaac was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master made the appointments; They were all installed.
The M.·. W.-. Grand Master by Past Senior Grand Warden. Henry A.
Branch and the other by the Grand Master, and Grand Lodge closed.
The Report on Correspondence, as for the past many years, is the
product of the brain of the goc;>d Brother Edward T. Schultz, and is
a . careful, painstaking analysis of th• doings of the Masonic World
to date. The present is his Ninteenth Annual Report.

St

A Special Communication was held ·May 16th for the d d' t'
of the. new hall of "Howard" Lodge, No. 101.
e rca ion

~hrs .Gra.nd Lodge held its One Hundred and Nineteenth .
Commumcatron November 21 1905 The G
d L d
.
Annual
•
·
ran
o ge was ope d b
the Deputy Grand Master. .T he M •· W. T.h
J Sh
ne
y
M
· ·
· ..
omas .
ryock Grand
aster, was received and presided. One hundred- and six of ~he 213
chartered Lodges were represented Afte
1
m d
d
.
·
r severa reports had been
a e ,an considered the Grand Lodge was called off until the 22d
at 2 o clock p. m., when the f?peCial Order would be the placing of
corner-stone of. the New Maryland Institute. The time of W
day too having arrived at 2 o'clock p m the G
d L d
ednes- ..
bled t 't h ll · h
· ·
ran
o ge reassemf tha ~ s a .m t e Temple, f_ormed procession and under the escort
o
e rand Commandery of Maryland, the Mayor of the city th
Governor of the State, the }'ifth Regiment of the National Guarc~

th:

MISSISSIPPI.
The Grand Lodge of Mi'ssissippi held its Eighty-eighth . Annual
Communication in the city of Brookhaven, February 20, l906,-M.:.
W.:. Thomas B. Franklin, Grand Master, p.residing, the M.-. W.:. Bro.
Frederic Speed being the Gr.and Secretary. Three hundred of the
305 Lodges on the Grand Lodge Roll were represented, together with
t\lienty-seven other Grand Jutisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters
were in atteiida·:nce. The Grand Master in his Address made feeling
reference to the great loss sustained by the Masons of Mississippi in
the death of Brothers Andrew H. Barkley, Isaac Tobias Hart and
Franklin P. Jenkins and paid eloquent and affectionate tribute to
their memory.
A fine portrait of Grand Master Charles H. Blum appears on the
opening page, and of the departed brethren in the body of the number and engraved design· of the beautiful monument erected by the
Masons of Mississippi in memory of Grand Secretary John Logan
Power. It is described by Brother Speed as follows:

32

REPORT ON · CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Power Monument.

brethren which had elevated him to the Grand East was but a recognition by them that he had ''merited the honor which we now
confer.''
.
The Grand Master then installed Brother Frederick Speed into the
office of Grand Secretary.
And the Grand Marshal proclaimed that the Grand Officers hacl
been duly and constitutionally installed.
The Grand Master appointed the Standing Committees and at his
requllst Past Graµd Master Frederick Speed closed the Grand Lodge,
after giving them in his earnest, feeling and eloquent manner an
Address that will Hnger with them until next year's Annual.
The Report on Correspondence is the sixty pages left with Brother
Speed by Bro. Barkley, the Chairman of the Committee. The Repor~
is his last message to his brethren. God give him rest.

"In compliance with the order of the Grand Lodge and of the
Grand Chapter and Grand Commandery, I contracted with the W. G.
Sharkey Stone Company of Atlanta, Ga., to make and up set a suitable
monument to John Logan Power, where he- is interred in the cemetery
at Jackson, after a design, which was kindly drawn for me by
Worshipful Bro.ther William A. Stanton, of Vicksburg, at a cost of
nine hundred and ninety-five dollars. It is to be in the form of a
Masonic Altar and I think is very chaste and elegant, as well as
appropriate. I regret that owing to the disturbing conditions caused
by the prevalence of the yellow fever in the summer and fall months,
I was unable to procure the plans until it was too late to make the
monument and have it set up in time for the dedication by the Graml
Lodge at this Annual Grand Communication, but an engraving made
from a photograph of the monument, fUTnished by the contractor, will
be ready for distribution and show its beautiful proportions. While if .
we were to buil-d a monument, measured by our affection for Brother
Power; it would tower higher than the Capitol at Jackson and cost
as much, I f elt that it would be more in accordance with the simplicity
of his noble character to set up a monument of moderate cost and
proportions, but which would be as enduring as our love for him will
be lasting.''
The Committee on Law and Jurisprudence presented a Report on
constructing the law on such questions as had been referred to it. A
most interesting Report.
Five Emergent Communications were held during the year for the
placing of the corner-stones of public buildings, including a Confederate monument.
The routine business of the Session having been concluded and
the election of Officers being in order, M. ·. W. :. Charles H. Blum
was chosen Grand Master.
A Memorial Service was held in the afternoon, when addresses
were delivered in remembrance of the beloved brethren Andrew
Hanna Barkley, Frank P. Jenkins, Isaac Tobias Hart, John W.
Stephenson, and James A. Robertson.
The appointed Grand Officers having been named, all were installed
by Past Grand Master Frederic Speed. Du.r ing the ceremony Brother
Speed, addressing the Grand Master-elect, expressed the great pleasure it gave to him to be the instrument of the Grand Ledge in inducting him into the office of Grand Master, a pleasure enhanced by the
long conti1111ed and intimate friendship of a service together in the
Grand Lodge and assured him that the unanimous vote of the

NORTH DAKOTA.
The Grand Lodge. of North Dakota held its Sixteenth Annual
Communieation in the eity of Grand Forks, June 28, 1905,-The M.·.
W.:. James W. Foley, Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.:. }'rank W.
Thompson being the Grand Secretary. Sixty~six of the seventy-two
chartered Lodges were represented, with two under Dispensation, together with twenty-seven other Grand Jurisdietions. Eight Past
Grand M~sters were in attendance. The Grand Master in his Address
reported the granting of Dispensations for the forming and opening of
two new Lodges, 3fld the constitution of three heretofore ehartered.
No important deeisions were reported.
The Grand Seeretary submitted an exhaustive Report, in whieh
he reports the year as progressive and prospe:rtms. The Jurisdietion
having a membership of 5,153 Master Masons, the transactions of the
Session were entirely routine, requiring DO comment. Grand Lodge,
however, broke some new ground in the matter of defining the duties
of Fraternal Correspondent. We quote the action and will await
results:
''The matter of what should or should not be incorporated in the
Review of · Fraternal Correspondence was brought.. up by M. ·• W. ·.
Bro. Robert M. Carothers,· writer of the Correspondence Report. The
question was discussed, pro and con, and the consensus of the mem.bers present was in favor of confining the Review to the reporting· of
approved decisions made by the Grand Masters of the several Grand
Lodges. It was believed that the space which could be allotted to a
review of any one Grand Lodge was too small, the expense of preparation and .printing too _great, and the readel'll of the Report too few, to
ZT

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
GRAND LODGE OF .0.A.LIFORNI.A.

make it worth the while. It seemed that with f ew exceptions the
greater number of Fraternal R eviews were largely devoted to complimentary remarks among Correspondent writers, or criticisms. which
served no practical end; 'that through the reporting·of approved decisions, or making syllabi thereof, each year's Review would be of
practical value as showing the true trend of Masonic thought and
the molding of Masonic law and precedents. · Therefore,
"M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Robert M. Carothers moved:
'' 'That the work of the Correspondent be modified and limited
to a compilation of the approved tlecisions and important legislation
of the various Grand Lodges. ' ''
The election of 0.fficers being in order, the M. ·. W. ·. Louis A.
Jacobson was chosen Grand Master, and R.:. W.·. Frank J. Thompson
was re-elected Grand Secretary. ·
The Grand Master made his appointments and all were installed
by Grand Master Foley, Past Grand Master James McDonald acti.fig
as Master of the Ceremonies.
The' Grand Orator M.:. W.:. Bro. Walter L. Stockwell delivered an
Oration before Grand Lodge for wh_ich he received a vote of . thanks.
''Acacia'' Lodge, No. 4, was tendered a vote of thanks for its
courtesy and hospitality in the entertainment of Grand Lodge.
We quote the following as one of the events of the Sixteenth
Annual of the Grand Lodge of North Dakota. ·
"Just as the tellers had finished counting the ballots for Bro.
Grant S. Hager, Depu~y Grand Master, an awful hail storm broke
over the city, destroying all of the windows at the Grand East, and
the wind scattered the Grand Secretary's papers and the ballots
promiscuously over the Lodge room. The brethren rushed to the
dining room for tables and barricaded the windows of the Lodge toom
with them, holding them in place through great efforts. The streets
were filled for the time being with runaway horses, it being impossible for the drivers to live in the fusillade of hailstones which f ell.
The' Grand Secretary had fortunately made a memorandum of the
ballot which he preserved from the ravages of the storm. Some were
unkind enough to· say that the storm came as a result of Brother
Hager's election, but Brother Hager declared that it was the applause
of Heaven. Whatever the cause, it was an event which the members
of the Grand Lo.dge will not soon forget. It is needless to say that
confusion prevailed among the Workmen, and the dignity of the
occasion was forgotten in the excitement of the moment. In due
time order was restored, none of the brethren were injured, and
Peace and Harmony prevailed.''
0

35

The Grand Master appointed the s .t anding Committees and the
Grand Lodge closed, Pea~e and Harmony prevailing.
NOVA SCOTIA,
The Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia held
tion at Glace Bay ' c B J
an Emergent Communica" · ., une 13 1905. for th
the corner-stone of the new M'a '.
'
e purpose of placing
sonic Hall.
The Fortieth Annual Commun· t'
June '14 1905 -M . W
rca ion was held in Sydney C. B.·
.·. Charles R Smith K
'
'
. '
'
···
presiding, the R . W • Th
M ·
'
· C., Grand Master,
· ·
· ..
omas
owbra b ·
~rtr-one of the sixty-.6.ve chartered Lod esyw emg Grand Secretary.
with twenty-one other Grand J . d' t' g
ere represented, .together
were in attendance.
uris ic ions. Four Past 'Grand Masters
An ·elegant portrait of Grand Master S .
page. In his full Masonic clothin h 1 m1th lfppe~rs on the opening
of manhood and the pride of b ~ e ooks. as one in all the strength
Th .
eau y-a typrcal Grand Master
.
e sixty-five c~artered Lodges have a membership of 4 41;
The Grand
Mast er d e1ivered
·
·.
an excellent Address . '
.
after paying an eloquent and affecti . t
. .
. ' m which he1
recited his official acts during th ona e tribute to the honored dead,
the R. .. W.:. Bro . Is11ac Brock
e recess. Among his act s we note
Lodge of Nova s'c t'
R . to represent California near t he Grand
. Deputy Grand Mas~e1:~ gi.:J:;t: ~ere re:eived from t~e nine District
the Lodges in the res;ective dist . otougThaccount o~ the condition of
requiring comment.
ric s.
ere was lit tle new business
telegraph·
t•
w· Fraternai
.
IC gree mgs were received from M

•t b
isconsm, both Grand Lodges being at th1"s t'
..
. ani o a and
ime in session
~he Representatives of other Grand Lod es
.
received a hearty greeting.
g
were introduced and
The routine of business b ·
·
for the ensuing year was in or~:.ga:~m:;~ted, .the election of Officers
Smith was re-elected Grand M t
· ·· W. · Bro. Charles Reynolds
as er and R . w . Th
M
was re-elected Grand Secretary . Th' G
...
..
omas owbray
ments and all were installed . Th e ~~nd Master made his appoint-

after prayer by .the Grand Ch~pter eth:a~~==~ ~:~ghem wasl sung and
Th R
,
e was c osed.
e eport on Correspondence is a fin
·
h
e review of the transactio~s
composing the Masonic World b
bray It .
.ti
y t e Grand Secretaty Thomas Mow.
is a ne paper of 216 pages and
dit
..
it is to the Grand Lodge.
'
a ere
to i ts author, as

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

36

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

·37

NEW JERSEY.
NORTH CAROLIN A.
'l'he Grand Lodge of North Carolina h.eld eight Special Communications during the year, of which number six were for the placing of
corner-stones of public buildings, one for .t he installation of Officers
of a Convention of Lodges and one for paying the last sad rites to
the remains of R.·. W.·. Bro. Wm. Simpson, Grand Treasurer.
The One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual was held in Raleigh,
January 9, 1906,-The M.:. W.:. Walter S. Liddell, Grand Master, presidl.ng, the R.:. W.·. John C. Drewry being Grand Secretary. Of the
338 chartered Lodges, 182 were represented, together with thirty-two
other Grand Jurisdictions. Twelve Past Grand Masters were present.
Th~ 338 Lodges register a membership of 15,813.
The Grand Master in his Address referred feelingly to the death
of Bro. William Simpson, Past Grand Treasurer, paying an eloquent
tribute to his memory. No import~nt decisions were reported and
no business out of the usual routine submitted for consideration.
The Grand Secretary reported sixteen new Lodges under Dispensation. The Superintendent submitted a detailed Report of the administration of the Oxford Orphan Asylum. The asylum had on its Roll,
November 1, 1905, 131 boys, 135 girls; a total of 266.
A stirring Address was delivered by the Grand Orator Bro. Andrew
J. Harris for which he was thanked by a rising vote of the members.
1
Portraits of the Grand Master, the late Past Grand Treasurer
R.·. W.:. Bro. Wm. Simpson, and the veteran, learned and zealous
Mason Bro. Bernice Walker, who died in Granville county in 1904 at
the age of 87 years, appear in this number of the Journal. The Committee on Charters recommen<).ed and Grand Lodge ordered the issuance of sixteen Charters to the new Lodges, numbered from No. 417
·to No. 53it, inclusive.
The election of Officers for the ensuing year being in order, the
M.-. W.:. l!'rancis D. Winston was chosen Grand Master, and the
R.-. W.·. Bro. John C. Drewry was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master having made his appointments, all were installed
by Past Grand Master Charles H Robinson, M.·. W.:. B. S. Royster
acting as Master of the .Ceremonies.
·The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's Jewel. The Gr~nd M·aster appointed the Standing ·committees, and after prayer by the Grand Cha.plain the Grand LDdge closed.
' The Report on Correspondence by Bro. John A. Collins, of Enfield,
is another of his practical reviews of the Masonic World. The. present
is Bro. Collins' tenth Annual.

The Grand Lodge of New Jersey held an Emergent Communication•
in the hall of "Bergen" Lodge, No. 47, Jersey City, August 13
1905, to pay the last sad tribute of love and affection to the remain~
of Past Grand Master Thomas W. Tilden, who passed to rest August
10, 1905.
The One Hundred and Nineteenth Annual Communication was ' held
in Masonic Hall, Trenton, Wednesday and Thursday, March 21 and 22,
1906,-The M.:. W.·. B~jamin F. Wakefield, Grand Master, presiding.
One hundred and seventy of the 176 Lodge.s in the Jursidiction were
represented, together with forty-one other Grand Jurisdictions. Nine
Past Grand Masters were in attendance. Many visitors from the
neighboring Jurisdictions of Connecticut, Delaware, New York and
:Pennsylvania received a hearty welcome, were saluted with the ~:fand
Honors and seated in the East.
The Grand Mas~er, in speaking, in his Addre11s. to the Grand Lodge,
of the dead Past Grand Master,- the . M. :. W. ·. Thomas W. Tilden
paused, laid aside his Address, and requested the R. ·. W. ·. and Rev'.
William H. Morgan, D. D., to say a few words in memory of the
beloved Brother. After a touching and eloquent tribute to the dead
Brother, that solemn and appropriate Ode was sung "Friend After
Friend Departs; ' '
·
·'
Elegant steel-engraved portraits (Bathers) of the Grand Master,
the Grand Secretary, the Deputy Grand Secretary and "In Memor. iam" Past Grand Master Tilden appear in this num'ber of the J ouranl.
The Grand Master .recommended the repeal of the resolution of
n~n-intercourse with the Grand Lodge of Washington.
Grand Lodge
did not concur, but substituted arbitration between the Grand Masters
of the respective Jurisdictions, which reminds us of the historic arbitration between the Governors of the Carolinas. May this one have as
peactlful an ending.
The Representatives of other Grand Lodges were introduced and
welcomed by the Grand Master, and saluted by the Grand Lodge with
the Grand Honors.
The routine business being completed, the election of Officers was
in order, and the M.·. W.:. Walter Chandler' was chosen Grand
Master, and the R.:. W.·. Thomas H. R. Redway was re-elected Grand
l!!ecretary.
The Grand Lodge adopted the following resolution:
"Whereas, The first Provincial Grand Master of Masons in the
Provinces of America was Daniel Coxe, of New Jersey, who was commissioned to that office by Earl of Norfolk, the Grand Master of
England, in 1730; and

38

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

''Whereas, The said Daniel Coxe, who was a leading citizen of the
Province of New Jersey, its principal landed proprietor, and a Judge
· of its Supreme Court, lies buried in the :tl.oor of St. Anne's Church, in
Burlington, New Jersey, since 1739, without mark to indicate his dis- ·
tinguished position in the history of Masonry in the United States;
therefore,
.
. l
"Resolved, That the Grand Master of Masons of the Stitte of New
Jersey be authorized to provide a bronze tablet, with appropriate
inscription (to be satisfactory to the Rector of the Parish of St.
.Mary's, Burlington), and install the same on or near the grave of the
said Provincial Grand Master Daniel Coxe, to honor his _memory and
to in.dica te his last resting place. "
The Grand Master having made his appointments, all were installed
by Past Grand Master Benj. F. Wakefield. Proclamation was made.
The Grand Lodge then dir.ected th~t a Past Grand Master's Jewel be
procured and presented to the retiring Grand Master. The Closing
Ode was sung. The Gra:dd Prelate 'offer.ed prayer and the Grand Lodge
of New Jersey closed.
The Report o~ Correspondence is a goodly paper of 150 pages,
Bro. Robert A. Shirrefs, Chanrman. The Report is a full and complete
review of the several Jurisdictions forming the Masonic World.
NEW YORK.
The Grand Lodge of New York held its One Hundred and Twenty:fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Hall in the city of New York,
May 1, 1906,-The M.·. W.:. Frank H. Robinson, Grand Master, presiding, the M.:. W.·. Edward M. Ehlers. being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Officers, forty-one District Deputy Grand Masters, nine
Past Grand Masters,· a .constitutioniµ number of Representatives and
the Representatives of sixty-sii: other Grand Jurisdictions were present.
This Grand Jurisdiction has on .its Roll 772 Lodges, with 139,203
members. The Address of the "Grand Master is a lengthy paper, as it
necessarily must be for the amount of business to be considered in so
great a Jurisdiction. • We quote his reference to the great disaster in
California as of interest to our readers:
"Week before last a great city was almost completely destroyed by
earthquake and fire. Thousands · of our brethren, their families and
friends, were left homeless and penniless. No American city has
ever suffered such a shocking calamity. · Starvation and death on
every hand in the great city of San Francisco touched the hearts of
our people throughout the .civilized world, unloosed the purse strings,

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA:

39
,
and almost an unlimited supply of food clothin
been placed at the disposal of the ro
.~ and money have
of the sufferers. In ·the very b . P. P
authorities for the relief
egmnmg of this disaste th G
Master of New York telegraphed th G
d M
r,
e rand
fraternal sympathy for the sufferer: a:;n. . aster . of California most
Grand Lodge of this State for fi
th mvited him to draw on the
.
ve
ousand dollars as
d
J>endmg voluntary contributions by our Lod e
an a vance
Every Master was either ·teiegra hed r
~ s throughout the State.
0
11Dntributions to our Grand Tr p
written to collect and send
easurer and our breth
h
b
.
prompt and most generous. The Craft of the t
ren ~ve een
in a most substantial way that th
S ate have agam shown
t
ey are ready for and
., .
pergencies ·and that the spiri"t f
'17<..
equa1 o all
·
o our .., raternity is
t
aurface, but deep down "i:Q the hearts."
no upon• the

:r

.

The response of the Lodges to th
of
·
t d t
e appea1
the Grand M t
amoun e o the handsome sum of $439 108 22
.
as er
eeemed to be mostly devoted· to th ' :d · ~he time of the session
f
.
e consi eration of rep t
t f G
· or s o comttnttees. The great financial int
· "t H
utica, in its antiquities its histoeres Bs o d rand Lodge
.
m i s ome at
'
ry, oar of Relief in
f .
dead, and the guardianship of its "t 1
.
•
memory o its
few pages of the big book for thri ~a redquir~ a total that leaves but
.
e mtro uction of
·d
beautiful steel engraved portra' t
new i eas. Two
number. Th~ first of Bro Wm iDs aMpil~ear on the opening pages of this
·
· ·
nor whom we g
t b
Orator. Wonder if he is not th
f w'
uess o e Grand·
m H Milnor G
d M
e son o
on our visit to Grand Lodge 0 f N
y
·. ·
' ran
aster
•
•
ew ork m 1850 th
f
'
e year o the
'ltlllon, and the second par.trait is of Pas
0-ardner. At the t'
f
. .
t Grand Treasurer John R.
ime o my visit James M A t"
M
Grand Secretary and he kind!
.d d
· us m,
· D., was
a Grand Lodge Session but 'to y guthi e me .through the intricacies of
.
.
'
me e most mteresting part f th b"
b oo k is
the Historian's Report 0 f fift
o
e ig
the history of the early L d
• y-hseven pages, 175 to 232, reciting
0
•ges m t e State, and my · t
t
.
,...crease as he approaches the Ch t. I
m eres will
ar er surrendered N 336 I
.

;~.r~:~~r,~:~:;!:s~:~rv~!:t::sesent Charter of "Li~tle °Falls" ~:~:::

of New.Jersey, Pennsylvania, De;:::r~r~:::d~oa:dt~= G~and Lodges
The Represent~tives
e rand Lodge
were welcomed by the Grand M t
d
of other Grand Lodges
R . W . Th
.
as er, .an the response was made b
S~~th .W
.. I omas A. Lewis, Representative of the Grand Lodge of Ne~
of New South Wales.

aa

.

T~e. Report on Correspondence is a splendid

a .brilhant although brief review of the
paper of 100 pages,
legislation of the Grand
Lodges composing the Masonic World.

40

41

°REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

NEBRASKA.

Past Grand Master Charles J. Phelps submits an excellent Report
of one hundred pages, wherein he ·reviews the Masonic World as it is
of record up to the prese.n t time.

The Grand Lodge of Nebraska held an Emergent Communication in
the City· of Lincoln June 4th, 1905, for the observance of the last sad
rites to the remains of Past Grand Master Robert Wilkinson Furnas.
The Grand Lodge held its Forty-eighth Annual in l'reemasons'
Hall, Omaha, June 6, 1905, the M.:. W.:. Charles E. Burnham, Grand
Master, the R.:. W.:. Francis E. White being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Lodge has enrolled 233 chartered Lodges on its Roll, of
which 213 were represented at th13 present Annual. Twenty-five Past
Grand Masters were in attendance.
.
Grand Lodge Roll shows the number of Master Masons, 14,190.
The Grand Master's Address was a lengthy paper, full and elaborate. ·
as to all matters treated but requiring no special comment.
From the following item we fear our representative near the Grand
Lodge of Nebraska, Past Grand Master Daniel H. Wheeler, is in allhealth.
"A Committee consisting of Brothers, Cheney, 100, Richards, 43,
and Murch, 46, was appointed to visit Past Grand Master Wheeler, and
present him with a bouquet of flowers in token of the sympathy of
the Grand Lodge, and to express the hope for his speedy recovery to
health and strength."
The election of officers ~eing in order the M.:. W.·. Bro. Melville
R. Hopewell was chosen Grand Master and R.·. W.:. Bro. Francis E.
White was re-e~ected Grand Secretary. '
.
Many amendment.a to the organic law were considered. The several committees presented their reports, and Gra~d Lodge procfeded
to the installation of the Officers-elect. We read the following with
interest:
"Past Grand Master Lininger proceeded to install the Grand
Officers, selecting Past Grand Master Burnham to act as Grand
Marshal. In presenting the officers for installation, Brother Burnham
briefly recorded their services to the Grand Lodge, making special
mention of their assistance to him during the past Masonic year, Past
Grand Master Lininger following with words of commendation, and
admonishing the several officers as to their duties, ·a nd pointing out
how much the future success and prosperity of the Grand Lodge depends upon those whom it had so highly honored. While all of the
ceremony was informal, it was the unanimous opinion that it was the
most interesting and impressive ever witnessed in the Grand Lodge
of Nebraska.
A very useful member of the Fraternity, to the Grand Lodge of
Nebraska, is Past Grand Master Lininger.

NEVADA.
The Grand Lodge of Nevada held a Special Communication for
the purpose of paying the last sad tribute to the remains of Past
Grand Master Tremnor Coffin, in Carson City, August 28, i904, also
on the 3d of June, 1905, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of
the Nye County Court House. The Forty-fust Annual Communication
was held in Carson City; June 13, 1905.
The M.:. W.·. George Gillson, Grand Master, presiding, V.:. W.:.
C. N. Noteware being Grand Secretary.
Tliere are twenty-two co~stituent Lodges on the Grand Lodge Roll
of which nineteen were represented, together with twenty-one othe;
Grand Jurisdictions. No important business presented itself and the
. .nsactions were of the usual routine. The M.:. W.:. Charles· A.
Beemer, of Spar~s, was chosen Grand ·Master, and the R:-. W.:.
"1launcey N. Noteware was re-elected Grand Secretary. Our W.·.
Bro. E. D. Vanderlieth was continued as Correspondent, under the new
and more elaborate title of "Co.mmissioner of Review."
We expect to see Nevada, in the near future, '·'shake herself" and
take the place appointed for Nevada in the Masonic column;· with her
almost unlimited territory and the wonderful inducements pr~sented
to populi;ition by the development of her electrical, mineral and agricultural industries the result must be more people, progress and prosperity.
Bro. Vanderlieth submits another excellent Report of more than
two hundred pages, wherein he reviews the proceedings of the various
Grand Bodies composing the Masonic World, extracts the meat and
serves it up for the use of his brethren of the Round Table.

NEW BRUNSWICK.
New Brunswick comes . to us with the portraits of two of her
11-tinguished Grand Masters in their handsome clothing on the opening pges,-tlie M.-. W.:. Benjamin R. Stevenson, Grand Master in
1881-82, and the M.:. W.· . Edwin J. Everett, Grand Master in 1904-05.
The Thirty-eighth Annual Communication was held in the city of
St. John, August 22, 1905,-The M.·. W.:. Edwin J. Everett in .the
East, the V.:. W.:. J. Twining Harth being Grand Secretary.

·42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The Grand Lodge has thirty-eight constituent Lodges in its Roll,
with a membership of 2,200. 0 these twenty-one Lodges were represented at the present Annual.
In the Grand Master's Address he gave a detailed account of his
visitations to the several Chapters, commenting upon their condition
and their skill and ability in the exemplification of the work.
The Grand Secretary reported a net increase in the membership of
fifty-nine. In this Jurisdiction the brethren only elect the Master,
Wardens, Chaplain and Treasurer. All others are appointed by the ·
Master.
The M.·, W.:. Edwin J. Eve·rett was re-elected Grand Master; the
V.:. W.:. J. Twining Harth was reappointed Grand Secretary. Address, Ritchie's Building, St. John, N. B.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"Whereas, The Most Worshipful Grand Master, Henry I. Haselton,
is prevented by sickness from being : present at this Annual Communication of the M. :. W.·. Grand Lodge A. F. and A. M. of'New
Hampshire:
.

•

''Resolved, That we deeply regret the absence of our Grand Master
~o-da;y; that w'e extend to him our love and heartfelt sympathy in his
ill~es.s, ~n~ a.ssure him that it is the sincere wish of every Mason in
this Jurisdiction that his health may be speedily restored to him .
''.Resolved, That the Grand Secretary send a copy of these resolutions to Most Worshipful Brother Haselton."
The Session was without special incident. The usual luncheon was
enjoyed. The usual election held, which resulted in the choice of M.:.
W.:. Ira Arthur Chase for Grand Master and Frank D. Woodbury for
Grand Secretary. The son of the ·retiring Grand Master received the
testim~nial of his father's services and the' appreciation of the
brethren thereof. The officers were installed and the Grand Lodge
closed.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
The Grand Lodge of New Hampshire held a Special Communication
on the 16th of June, 1904, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone
of Pembroke Academy. A second Special was held at Laconia, June
20, 1904, for the dedication of the Hall of "Mount 'Lebanon" Lodge,
No. 32, and a third for the celebration of the One Hundredth Anniversary of "Morning Star" Lodge at Wolfeborough, October 24th.
·
The Semi-Annual was held December 27, l904,_:_The M.'.. W.:.
Henry I. Haselton, Grand Master, the R,:. W.·. Frank D. Woodbury,
Past Grand Master, being Grand Secretary.
There are seventy-nine constituents on the Grand Lodge .Roll with
a membership of 9,565. Of these sixty-four Lodges were represented
at the present Semi-Annual. The Session was devoted to the exemplification of work;
A Special Communication was held in Lebanon, April 14, 1905, for
the observance of the Bad. rites to the remains of Past Grand Master
M.·. W.·. Bro. Alpheus Wooster Baker,' Grand Master in 1882.
The One Hundred and Sixteenth Annual was held in the city of
Concord, May 17, 1905,-M.·. W.:. Henry I. Haselton, Grand Master,
R.:. W.:. Frank D. Woodbury being Grand Secretary. Fifty-five
Lodges were represented, together with twenty-seven other Grand
Jurisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
The Grand Master being absent from illness, the peputy Grand
Master R.:. W.:. Bro. Ira A. Chase presided, and read the Address
of the M.:. W.:. Grand Master. The Address is an able paper, reciting the transactions of the year, but without special importance. The
absence of the Grand Master caused the following expression from
Grand Lodge:

43

I

'

Our R. ·: W. ·. Bro. Albert S. Wait presents, as usual, a first-class
Report. In fact, we look upon Bro. Wait as a Masonic encyclopedia
and had we a Masonic nut to crack we should forthwith hand it t;
Bro. Wait.
OHIO.
A handsome portrait of a good-looking Grand Master invites us to
open th~ present number of the Ohio Journal.
The Grand Lodge held its Ninety-sixth Annual Communication in
the Scottish Rite Cathedral in Cincinnati, October 18, 1905,-The M.'.
W. ·. Clifford G. Ballow, Grand Master, presiding, the R. :. W. '., J. H.
Bromwell being the Grand Secretary. A constitutional 11.umber of
.Lodges being represeited, a Lodge of Master Masons was opened and
subsequently the Grand Lodge of Ohio was declared open and. in order
for business.
·
Grand Lodge was welcomed to Cincinnati by the May~r of the city
. and by the M .: . W.-. Wm. B. Melish, on behalf of the Masons of
Hamilton county. Telegrams of congratulation were received from
the Grand Lodge of Wiscpnsin and Kentucky. At this point M.:. W.·.
Bro. William B. Melish raised a slight disturbance with the following
announcement:
M.-. W.-. aro. William B. Melish announced to the members that
there was present a member of the Grand Lodge who had been such
for fifty years and had been present at fifty-one consecutive sessions
of the Grand Lodge without a single omission. He then introduced

44

45

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

M. ·. w. :. B;ro. W. M. Cunningham, Past Grand Master of this Grand
Lodge, and also called upon Bro. A. D. Thomas, District Lecturer, to
explain to the Grand Lodg~ the reason for what was to follow.
After an eloquent speech by Bro. Thomas the Journal says:
"Bro. Thomas then addressed M.:. W.:. Bro. Cunningham as fol-

The several Co=ittees reported; the acts of the Grand Master
were approved. The Committee on the Ma~onic History of Ohio reported its organization, with Past Grand Master William M. Cunningham as Chairman.
At the election of Grand Officers M.-. W.·. L. P. Schaus of Newark
was elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. J. H. Bromwell was re·
elected Grand Secretary.
A Committee was appointed on Centennial Celebration.
The Grand Master having announced his appointments, all were
instaJ.led by Past Grand Master Wm. B. Melish, the M." W.-. Bro.
W. A. Belt acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
The Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the Grand
Lodge closed in Ample Form.

lows:
" 'Most Worshipful Brother Cunningham, this Grand Lodge appre·
ciates your long and faithful services in its behalf, and to more
:fittingly commemorate this unusual event your friends, including_ the
Past Grand Masters, the present Grand Lodge Officers and District
Lecturers, wi,th a few others, have had struck a special gold medal
in your honor, and it is with extreme pleasure that I now pin that
jewel on your breast.
'' 'Accept it, not for its intrinsic value, but rather wear it as a
token of our love, esteem, and respect, and as an acknowledgmen.t of
our high appreciation of your .efficient services.' ''
'
And from the engraved likeness of said medal in the Journal
Bro. William N. Cunningham is wearing a badge of beautiful work·
manship in recognition of his long and faithful service in the Granil
Lodge of Ohio.
The Grand Master proceeded to deliver his Annual Address. In
his opening he quotes that beautiful poem, "O, a Wonderful Stream .is
the River of Time." .He congratulates Grand Lodge on a net garn
of 3 393 making the total enrollment of Masons in Ohio 61,636, but
some' are' missing. Yes, 850 brethren have passed t.o the oth er s1'de.
'Brethren,'' he said, ''in respect to their memory, let us arise, and
with bowed heads stand, while we silently offer a petition to our
Father who art in heaven.'' He read from the death roll of the year,
upon which was inscribed the names of many of the ablest sons of the
Fraternity.
.
There have been twenty-two Special Communications of the Grand
Lodge during this administration. In these Communications six cor·
ner-stones have been laid, ten Temples have been dedicated, three new
Lodges have been constituted, one new Lodge has been instituted, one
Communication for the District Lecturers has been held, and one
funeral service has been conducted.
A full account of these Special Comniunications, herewith submitted will be found ·in the Proceedings.
Th~ Grand Master made good use of his time during the recess of
Grand Lodge in the visitation of the constituent Lodges. We think his
remark comprehends the whole when he says:· "In my Lodge visita·
tions I have met and made the lasting acquaintance of some of the
noblest men on God's green earth.''

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Past Grand Master Cunningham, our Correspondent of .the Grand
Lodge of Ohio, furnishes a Report in keeping with the general excellence and extent of this mammoth review. The Report is a digest of
Masonry in Ohio and reviews not only the English but the non-English
speaking Grand Bodies in the Masonic World. The paper :fills 375
pages of the Journal.
OKLAHOMA.
The .Grand Lodge of Oklahoma held its }'ourteenth Annual Com·
munication in Masonic Temple, Guthrie, February 13, 1906,-The M.:.
W.:. George H . Phillips, Grand Master, presiding. For the opening
of the Grand Lodge we quote from the Record:
"There being several of the Grand Lodge Officers absent, the
Grand ·Master made the following appointments to fill vacancies:
"Bro. H. R. Walling ('Medford,' No. 28), as Grand Chaplain.
"Bro. E .. D. Meeker ('Lawton,' No. 75), as Grand Junior Deacon.
~'Bro. Joseph H. Roberts ('Medford,' No. 28), as Grand Senior
Steward.
"Bro. E. W. Milburn ('Tecumseh, ' No:t3), as Grand Junior Steward.
. ''The Grand Secretary having announced that a constitutional
number of Chartered Lodges of the Jurisdiction were present, by duly
11ccredited representatives, the Grand Master proceeded, after prayer
by the Grand Chaplain, and opened the M.-. W. :. Grand Lodge of
Oklahoma in Ample Form.''
The past must have been a busy y€ar in Oklahoma, for the Officers
an!l members of the · Masonic organizations. Fifteen Dispensations
issued for the forming and opening of new Lodges, in addition to two

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Dispensations continued and the constitution of sixteen new Lodges
chartered at the preceding Annual Communication, answers for the
discharge of much official duty from the Grand Master to the Grand
Tyler. The Grand Master of Oklahoma mus.t keep h.is wo~king ~lothes
on, for he reports the receipt of seventy-six questions, mvolvmg all
kinds of practice and Masonic law, with his answers thereto.
From the Report of the Grand Secretary we find the number. of
chartered Lodges is 156, with a membership of 6,777. One hundred
and seven Lodges were represented at the present Session, together
with eighteen other Grand Jurisdictions.
· ·
"In the midst of our prosperity an unusual condition is approaching. With the coming of Statehood we will have two Grand Lod~es
in one State. May. our acts be guided by Wisdom and tempered with
Justice in everything that pertains · to this condition when it confronts us.
"Our Lodges are prospering and the end of the year is as bright
and au'spicious as was the beginning. 11
. ·The above is the only reference to the Statehood question in the
Grand Master's · Address. At the conclusion of the routine business
the Grand Lodge proceeded to the· election of Officers for the ensuing

The Grand Master 's Address ii! a well-written ~aper, without attempted ornamentation, and is ~onfined to the business interests of
the Grand Jµrisdiction. Bro. George Wall, Grand Orator delivered
an excellen~ Address, hi~ sub~ect being the antiquity of Masonry
and connecting the operative with the speculative Mason. The Grand
Lddg~ exchanged t elegraphic greetings with the Grand Lodge of
Washmgto~, and at the conclusion of its routine business proceeded
to the elect10n of Officers for the ensuing year, when the M ... w... Bro.
William H. Flanagan was chosen Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. Bro.
James F. Robinson was re-elected Grand Secretary.

46

The Grand Lodge also exchanged greetings with the Grand Lodge
of Wisconsin, at the .time in Session.
The several Committees having reported, the Officers-elect were
installed, the Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the
Grand Lodge closed.
·
Past Grand Master and Correspondent" John M. Hodson submits
his usual excellent Report, eaeh one seeming to us a little better than
the last. In the present paper he exhausts 156 pages in the review of ·
the work of sixty Jurisdiction!J. In his conclusion ·he says in better
words than we hav e at h~nd just at this moment, just what we would
write: "Ther_e are f ew, if any, new questions discussed, but there is
greater unanimity than ever before, in striving to make Masonry in
fact as well as theory, universal. The fundamental creed of the ~'ra­
ternity, 'The ~atherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, 1 is being
more deeply impressed by our teachers and writers, than in years
gone by. The disposition to recognize and stand upon a high.er plane
than that of a mere secular institution, devoted to the physical needs
of its members, i_s growing rapidly.''

year.
.
·
. M.:. W. ·. Fred D. Spa:cks was elected Grand Master, and the R.:.
W.:. James S. Hunt was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The R.:. W.: . .Bro. James S. Hunt, Grand Secretary, also .fills the
place of .Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. He sub~its
the results of his labor in the present number of th~ Journal m a
paper of 200 pages, in which he gives a faithful review of t.he transactions of the various Masonic Bodies. composing the Masomc World.
Bro. Hunt gives notice in this Report of his intended retirement from
the Round Table, and names his successor, 'in the person of Past Grand
Master William M. Anderson.
OREGON.
0

The Grand Lodge of Or egon held its Fifty-fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Portland, June 14, 1905,-The M. · · W. · ·
Thomas Gray Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.·. James F. Rob.i nson being Gr~nd Secretary. This Grand Lodge has upon its Roll 107
chartered Lodges, with a membership of 7,322, of which ~umber .102
Lodges were represented, with Delegates from two under Dispensation.
A handsome photogravure of the Grand Master appears on the ope~­
ing page. We note the presence of eighteen Past Grand Masters in
attendance at the present Convocation, w;ith the Representatives. of
fifty-eight other Grand Jurisdictions.

47

•

Since writing the foregoing we have received Oregon for 1906,
done up in Bro. Robinson's neat style, ·with the photogravure of the
M.·. W.:. W. H. Flanagan, Grand Master, on the opening page. The
Fifty-sixth Annual was held .in the Masonic Temple, Portland, June 13,
1906. The attendance was full, with Grand Master Flanagan presiding. Nearly all the Lodges represented, with twenty-seven other
Gr~nd Jurisdictions. Twenty· Past Grand Officers were in attendance.
High tide cont~nues in the business affairs of the Grand Lodge of
Oregon. The present return shows a membership of 7,689. Progress
and prosperiJ;y is the key-note. The Session was harmonious and the
business conducted without friction. We .w ere about to write, there is
no contention among t he brethren of Oregon, save the noble one of
who can best work and best agree, but the work, alas! that's the only
thing they don't agree upon.

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

48

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

.

M.:. w.~. Bro. W. T. Williamson was elected Grand Master, and
Bro. James F. Robinson was re-elected Grand Secretary.
Bro. John M. Hodson submits another of his excellent R.eports,
nearly 200 pages, reviewing the conditions in every part of the Ma-

sonic World.
PRINCE EDWARD'S ISLAND.

...

This Grand Lodge held a Special Communication at Kensington,
for the purpose of dedicating the new Masonic Apart.m ents there to
Virtue and to Universal Benevolence, in accordance with the usage of
Freemasonry.
The Grand Lodge held its Thirtieth Annual in Freemasons' Hall,
Sowns June 26, 1905,-The M.-. W.·. Benjamin Rogers, Grand Master,
presicting, the R.:. W.:. Neil MacKelvie being Grand Secretary.
All the fourteen Lodges were represen~ed, together with t~enty
other Grand Jurisdictions. Thirteen Past Grand Officers were m attendance. The reports show the membership. of the Lodges to be
more than six hundred. The Grand Master delivered an earnest and
fraternal Address. There was little business outside of the usual r~u­
tine, and with the election and installation of Officers for the ensumg
year, and there being no Report on Correspondence, the Grand Lodge
of Prince Edward's Island closed.
.
The M.:. W.:. Charles H. S. Sterns was chosen Grand Master, and
the R.:. w. ·. Neil Mackel vie was re-elected Grand Secretary.

PENNSYLVANIA.
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania held its First Quarterly for
1905 in the Masonic Temple, Philadelphia, March lst,-R.-. w....James
w. Brown, Grand Master, presiding. This Jurisdiction has registered
on its Roll 448 Lodges, with a membership of 71,249. One hundred
a~d foi:ty-nine Lodges were represented at the prese~t Quarterly. The
Session was devoted to receiving Reports of Committees on By-Laws,
on Printing, and on Finance.
A second Quarterly was held June 7th,-Grand Master Brown pre'd'
o e hundred and thirty-five Lodges were represented. Comsi mg.
n
t't'
f
ar
mittee on By-Laws and Amendments reported .with pe i ions or w rants for new Lodges.
A third Quarterly was held September 6th.

One hundred and

thirty-two Lodges were represented. ,
. . .
The Grand Secretary reported the work oi. the ·Jurisdiction for
the year 1904. Committee on Amendments to By-Laws reported.

49

A portrait of' the late Past Grand Master George E. Wagner was
presented to Grand Lodge by Past Master Graham or "Harmony"
Lodge, No. 52..
The last Quarterly was held in the Temple, December 6, 1905,-The
Grand Master James W. Brown presiding. Three hundred and eightyfour Lodges were represented.
Splendid portraits of Grand Master T. B. Freeman of 1836 and
Grand Master John M. Read of 1837-38 appear in this number of the
Journal.
The present being the time prescribed by the "Ahiman Rezon"
for the election of Grand Officers, and Grand Master Brown having
declined re-election, the R ... M ... George W. Kendrick, Jr., was chosen
Grand Master, and the R.". W.·. William A. Sinn was re-elected Grand
Secretary.
The Trustees of .the Grand Charity Fund of the Girard Bequest, of
the Thomas R. Patton Memo.rial l!'und, of the Stephen Taylor Bequest,
of the Charles Jackson McClary Memorial Funds, the Committee on
Appeals and the Finance Committee presented their reports, all of
which were considered and approved.
The Annual Communication was held December 27th-Grand
Master James W. Brown presiding.
.
One hundred and three Lodges were represented.
The Committees reported, the retiring Grand Master delivered his
Address, the new Officers were installed, Grand Master Kendrick delivered his inaugural, appointed the Standing Committees and Grand
Lodge closed at 1 o'clock p. m.
·.
Bro. James M. Lamberto:o., Chairman of the Committee on Correspondenc.e , ptesents the Report of that Committee, wherein he has
reviewed the legislation of nearly all the MasoniC Bodies in touch
with legitimate Masonry. The Report is worthy of the Chairman, and
a credit to the Committee and to the Grand Lodge.
QUEBEC.
The Grand Lodge of Quebec held its Thirty-sixth Annual Communication in Montreal, Province of Quebec, January 31, 1906,-The
M.'. ·W.". David Ames Manson, Grand Master, presiding in the Grand
East, the R.". W.-. Will H. Whyte being Grand Secretary.
In this Grand Jurisdiction there are on the Grand Lodge Roll :fifty. six warranted or chartered Lodges, with two under Dispensation, with
a total membership of' five thousand. Of these all save two were represented at the present Annual.
28

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

'fhe Grand Master made an able Address, devoted almost entirely
to the business of the Grand Lodge. He was in error concerning the
following, as the attempt did not succeed: ''.The Grand Lodge of
California has notified this Grand Lodge that it has adopted a reso·
lutioJ;J. abolishing the custom of exchanging Grand Representatives.''
The business of the Session was almost entirely routine, no new
or important .matters coming before Grand Lodge for consideration.
The electi~n of Officers for the ensuing year being held, the M. · ·
W.·. David A. Manson was chosen Grand Master and the R.:. W.·.
Will H. Whyte of Montreal wai! re-elected Grand Secretary.
A fine photogravure ·of Bro. Whyte in official dress, with all his
Jewels on, appears on the opening page of this number of the Journ~l.
Bro. E. T. D. Chambers writ~s the Correspondence for the Grand
~odge of Quebec, and' does it well. His present Report is. a . p~per
of 132 pages, and deals with th'e _legislation of the several Junsdictio~s
in a strictly impartial manner. In comme_n ting upon matters down in
Georgia, he expressed himself as a loyal .son of ~rita!~ ever wo.uld, t~at
Bro. Meyerhardt would better be satisfied with
conformmg . with
cheerfulness'' to the government of the country under. which he was
living and let the brethren on the "other side of the river" close
their Lodges with "God save the king" if they so desired.
RHODE ISLAND.
This Grand Lodge assembled November 21, 1904, and held its usual
Semi-Annual Communication,-The R.·. W.·. Joseph W. :E;reeman,
Deputy Grand Master, presiding. The Grand Master ~as absent ~e·
cause of illn~ss and Grand Lodge took the following_ action, on motion
of Past Grand Master Edward L. Freeman:
''Whereas, This Grand Lodge has been informed that our beloved
Grand Master, Most ·worshipful James E. Tillinghast, is confined to
his home by severe sickness, and is therefore unable to .be present
at this Semi-Annual Communication; therefore,
''Resolved That this Grand Lodge hereby expresses its deepest
'
. c
regret at the enforced absence of our Grand Master from t~is. orr:i·
munication and tenders its warmest fraternal sympathy to him m his
sickness ~ith the strongest hope that he ui.ay be restored to health
and str~ngth at an early day and be permitted :o pu_rsue ~is. u~ual
avocation as well as -to guide and direct the Craft m this Junsdiction.
''Resolved That the Grand Secretary of this Grand Lodge be and
he is hereby directed to send a copy of this pre~mble and ~esolu~i,on
to our Most Worshipful Grand Master at his earliest convenience.

~RAND LODGE OF· CALIFORNIA.

51

This prepares us somewhat for the Emergent Communication of
February' 3d, when the Grand Lodge assembled,~The R.·. W.·. Joseph
W. ,Freeman, Deputy Grand Master, presiding, to pay the last tribute
9f respect and affection to t.he memory of M.·. W.·. James Elisha Til·
linghast, who died January 30, 1905. After the usual preliminaries
j;he Grand Lo.d ge is formed in procession, and under the escor~
of "Calvary'_' Commandery, No. 13, Knights Templar, proceeds to
the ~irst Baptist Meeting House, where religious services are conducted by Rev. Henry M. King, pastor of the church, following which
the Templar funeral ceremonies are performed by Eminent Commander
John P. Thompson and the Sir Knights of "Calvary" Commandery.
After the services in the church the brethren again form in line
and proceed to Swan ·P oint Ce~etery, where the Masonic burial rites
are performed over the remains of our departed Brother in accordance
with ancient custom.
The One Hundred and Fifteenth Annual Communication was held
May 15, 1905, when the ''Grand Lodge of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.'' assembled in Freemasons' Hall, Providence,-The
R.·. W.·. Joseph W. Freeman, Deputy Grand Master, presiding. All
the Lodges were repre'lented, together with twenty-seven other Grand
Jurisdictions.
·
~ ~ands~me photogravure of the Webb Memorial and grounds appears m this number of the Journal. The usual routine of business
prevaHed. No important business demanded the attention of the
Grand Lodge.
The M.·. W.·. Joseph Wood :l!'reeman was elected Grand Master
_and the R.·. W. ·: S. Penrose Williams was re-elected .G rand Secr~tary'.
SOUTH DAKOTA.
The Grand Lodge of South Dakota held an Emergent Communica.tion in the city of Deadwood, September 7, 1904, for the purpose of
,paying th~ last sad rites to the remains of Past Grand Master Albert
Wells Coe.
·
The Thirty-:lirst Annuai Communication was held in the Masonic
Temple, Aberdeen, June 13, 1905,-M.:. W.·. Bro. Ivan W. Goodner
.Grand Master, presiding. The G;rand Lodge. has upon its Roll 10~
.chartered Lodges and two under Dispensation. Of these seventy-nine
were represented, with twenty-four other Grand Jur.isdictions. Eight
Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
A fine photogravure of the Grand Master appears on the opening
page. The Grand Master in his Address reported the passing away _of
beloved brethren. This sad duty he discharged in words of sympa-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

thetic and eloquent meaning. He reported the placing of the cornerstones of the new Masonic Hall at Miller, of the new courthouse at
Faulkton and the fine government building at Pierre. His decisions
were well considered and met the approval of the Committee on Jurisprudence. In commenting on the Masonic importance of the Grand
Lodge of South .Dakota, we must remember that in 1889 thirty-two
Lodges of its "bone and sinew" withdrew and formed the Grand
Lodge of North Dakota. After the routine work of the Session the
election was held of Officers· for the ensuing year.
M.:. W. ·. Edgar D. Brookman was chosen Grand Master, and the
R.·. W.:. Geo. A. Pettigrew was re-elected Grand Secretary. The
several Committees reported, the Officers were installed and Grand
Lodge closed.
We note in this number a portiai t "In Memoriam" of the departed
Past Grand Master Albert Wells Coe.
Bro. S. A. Brown, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence,
submits a Report of unusual excellence. In his conclusion he enunciates so forcibly to Masons, the duties of the hour, that we take it
as a whole:
''The startling increase in numbers which is apparent in Masonry
everywhere, being no less than fifty thousand in the United States
alone, must give thoughtful Craftsmen food for serious reflection. It
shows that men are seeking Brotherhood in its unmodified characterBrotherhood! and that alone. And it behooves us to see that they get
it; for if they do not, shall we not see the ebb which followsf Is not
Brotherhood the one thing needed in this world whereby we may
withstand the destructive forces which instantly originate to undermine every new development of human progressf Great prosperity is
upon us, and the mischiefs 'that come with it-are they not also apparenH Masonry, Brethren, must be the true Brotherhood. All othe!
societies have some divergence which makes them fail of the ideal of
Universal Brotherhood; and the danger is that we also shall fail, for
it may be that our Brzthren will not exemplify our noble principles.
Now is the time for every true Son of Light to bestir himself and be
in his place in Lodge to show the seekers that which is being sought.
Many societies seek to cultivate the mind; it is ours to cultivate the
heart. Great is the glory of the mind; but the heart-that is the best.
The great mind may do great harm; but the great heart-it can do
naught but good.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

52

53

The Grand Lodge of South Carolina held a Special Communication
in the hall, "Shibboleth" Lodge, No. 28, at Orangeburg, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone of a .s chool building, and another at
Chester, on May 10th, for the purpose of placing the corner~stone of a
Confederate monument. The One Hundred and Twenty-ninth Annual
was held in the city of Charleston, December 12th,-The M. ·. w.-.
John R. Bellinger, Grand . Master, presiding; M.·. W.:. Bro. J. T.
Barron acting as Grand Secretary.
One hundred and eighty-four chartered Lodges were represented
and five .under Dispensatiqn, together with twenty-three other Grand
Jurisdictions. Six Past Grand Masters were in attendance. We regret to lea:r.n from the Journal that our R. ·. w_.. Bro. Charles Inglesby,
Grand Secretary, was affiicted with serious illness, and fro~ a note
at the end of the Journal we are informed that the end came in
March, 1906.
To the past go more dead faces
Every year;
Ati the loved leave vacant places
Every year;
Everywhere the sad eyes meet us.
In the evening's dusk they greet us,
And to come to them entreat us,
Every year:
·
M. ·. W. ·. Bro. Bellinger delivered an excellent Address and the
eighteen District Deputies each made a detailed Report of ~he condition of the Lodges in his district. Of the general conditions Grand
Master Bellinger says: .
''During all my thirty years' exp.e rience as a Mason, I have never
J;mown Masonry to be in a more prosperous condition, or working upon
a higher plane. Fiom every quarter of the State the same report
comes to me. The old Lodges are growing in membership and in
financial strength, and new ones are being formed. Better still, the
new members are composed of the finest and most intellectual members
of their several commu.nities-men who are honored and respected by
their fellows, and, therefore, men who must be of benefit to Masonry,
and to whom Masonry must do good. Brethren, I believe that the
hand of the Almighty is with us; that He is_guiding and directing us,
and I pray that the influence of the Holy Spirit may always abide
with us, and direct, strengthen, confirm and assist us in all that is
good and nobie and true. Thus influenced, Masonry will continue to
grow, and to spread its benign influences wider and wider over the

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

earth until we realize in its fullest extent the truth of the Universal
Brotherhood of Mankind, and the Fatherhood of God.
At the conclusion of the routine business of the Session, Officers
for the ensuing year were elected, and then what would be an 'u nusual
proceeding in most Grand Bodies followed: ''The Gran~ Lodge having been closed on the Third Degree and opened on_the First, the elective Officers were duly installed, except R. ·. W. ·. Bro. Charles In. glesby, Grand Secretary, and R.·. W.·. and Rev. Bro. W. P. Smith,
Grand Chaplain. ' '
A Committee was appointed to procure a suitable testimonial for
presentation to Grand Master Belli:nger for two years' faithful service
in the Grand East.
·
.
. Owing to the last illne~s of Grand Secretary Inglesby there was
no Report on Correspondence.
M.·. W.-. Frank E. Harrison was elected Grand Master, and Past
Grand Master Jacob =r. Barron was elected Grand Secretary.

The ~- ·. W. ·. S. M. Bradley of Denton was chosen Grand Master,
and the R.:. W.:. John Watson was re-elected Grand Secretary. The
.Grand Ma.star made the appointments and all were installed by P11:st
Grand Master John L. Terrell, who also presented the retiring Grand
.Master M.-. W.-. Bro. Campbell ·with a Past Grand Master's Jewel.
The present number contains the portraits of M.-. W.:. Bro. Norton
Moses, who was Grand Master .in 1877, and of the present Grand
Master M.-· W." S. M. Bradley. The reader may get an idea of 'the
extent of this immense Jurisdiction from the following:

TEXAS.
The Grand Lodge of Texas held its Seventieth Annual Communication in the city of Waco, December 5, 1905,-M.·. W .:. A. W.
Campbell, Grand Master, presiding. The registered Lodg~s on. the
Roll number 723. Of these 464 were represented, together with thirtyfive other Grand Jurisdictions. Twelve Past Grand Masters, all the
Grand Officers and the District Deputy Grand Masters of forty dis
tricts were present.
The Grand Master's Address was a lengthy paper of nearly forty
pages, necessarily so, perhaps, from the extent, territorially, of the
Jurisdiction, and the immense amount of business to be supervised by
tho Executive Head. Many decisions were . solicited in the ·form of
questions and answers, of which the Grand Master reports thirty-five.
From the Report of the Grand Secretary we learn there are_ on the
Roll of Membership, 38,270 Master Masons. Charters were granted
to twenty-one new ~odges at the present Session. The Committee
on the Masonic History of Texas presented a deeply interesting Report
of sixteen pages, in the present number. The present chapter brings
the record down to about the year 1850. Plans are provided and the
necessary funds in a great part contributed for the building of a
Home a~ Fort Worth for the Widows and Orphans of the Masons of
Texas.
The routine business of the Session being completed by the. reports
and consideration thereof, of the reports of the various Committees,.
the election of Officers for the ensuing year was in order.

55

"The Grand Secretary called for Bro. C.H. Thorn, of 'Rio Grande'
Lodge, No. 81, at Brownsville, in the extreme southern portion of the
Jurisdiction, and for Bro. ·o. J. Ingham, ·of 'Stratford' Lodge, No. 874,
. at Stratford, in the extreme northern part of the Jurisdiction, and
asked Bro. Thorn to state the condition of the weather when he left
Brownsville on Saturday, the second day of the month, and he stated
that it was spring-like weather and the grass was fresh · and green
and all kinds of flowers were blooming, and that he passed fields of
corn that were in roasting ear. Bro. Ingham stated that when he
left Stratford on Saturday there was ·an inch and a half of snow and
'
the ground was frozen four inches deep. These two brothers, ili order
to : each Waco, jointly traveled over nine hundred miles."
· The business of the Seventieth Annual Communication being completed, after prayer by the o:_rand Chaplain, the Grand Lodge closeq.
Past Grand Master Thomas M. Matthews, Sr., Chairman of Correspondence, submits his usual excellent Report, reviewing the condition
o~ Masonry i~ the several' Jupsdictions of the Masonic World, clusing
his Report with the beautiful poem, "Life is Real! Life is Earnest!
etc_,'' and Bro. Matthews, after nearly four score years' experience is
willing to certify to the truth of · the assertion.
.

UTAH.
The Grand L~dge of Utah held its Thirty-fifth Annual Communication in Masonic Hall, Salt Lake City, January 16, 1906. This Grand
Lodge has on its Roll eleven chartered Lodges, with a membership
of 1,270,-The M.:. W.-. Charles Stetson Varian, Grand Master, and.
the R. ·. W. ·. Christopher Diehl, Grand Secretary.
0

Eleven Past Grand Masters were in attendance. All of the constituent Lodges were represented, together with forty-five o.ther Grand
Jurisdictions.
.
Portraits of Grand Master Badcon and Bro. John William Guthrie
appear in the present number of the Journal.

56

REPORT ON CoRREBPON.D ENGE.

The Grand Master in his Address noted the Peace and Harmony of
the Jurisdiction and in its progress and· general prospe.r~ty, and as
'd
of his right to J'udge thereof said that he had visited all the
evi ence
\;
d · ·
Lodges ·and investigated their con~tion. He r.epo: ed no ec1sions.
He reported the holding of a Special Communication of the Grand
Lodge last June, at Ogden, for the purpose of placing the corner-stone
of the Ogden Masonic Temple.
.
·Bro. Diehl says in his Report, ''The Grand Lodges of C~lifornia
and New Mexico have discontinued the Grand Representative system." Not yet, Bro. Diehl, it was undertaken last Session, but the
start was made at the wrong end.
The Grand Representatives of other Grand Jurisdictions were addressed and welcomed by the Grand Master and saluted with the
Grand Honors.
Bro. He~rj Simon, Chairman of the Committee on Obituaries, made
a feeling and appropriate Report, which was adopted by Grand ~odge.
The usual routine of business was transacted and the election of
Officers for the ensuing year be~ng in order, M.-. W.:. Sidney Wat.son
Badcon was chosen Grand Master and the R.-. W.-. Christopher Diehl
was re-eltcted Grand Secretary.
.
.
The Grand Master made his appointments · and all w~re installed
by the Grand Master, W. ·. B~o. Henry Simon .acting as Master of the
Cerem.unies.
.
The retiring Grand Master presented the Signet Ring to his successor with a few eloquent words. The Grand Master named the Standing Committees ~rid the Grand Lodge closed. As usual, the Report o.n
corr'espondence is by R.-. W.-. Bro. Christopher Diehl. The Rep_o~t _is
a paper of 119 pages ii:nd is the natural product of an enthusiastic,

57

M.-. W . :. Bro. George O. Tyler, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Quebec, received the honors due his rank and was.seated in
the East.
The Grand Master commenced his Address with an allusion t o the
Israelites, who at stated intervals appeared at the Temple in humble
recognition and thanksgiving for the blessings abundantly received.
It stirs the blood to read the eloquent words of the Grand Master in
his application of the historic custom.
The Address is an eloquent dissertation uopn the uses and purposes of Masonry with a clear and comprehensive statement of the
business affairs of Grand Lodge. The 103 Lodges have a membership
of eleven thousand, five hundred and thirty-five. The Jurisdiction is
prosperous and progressive. At the present Session no business out
of the usual routine seemed to be presented for eonsideration. · At
the election of Officers for the ensuing year, the M.:. W.·. Walter E.
Ranger was chosen Grand Master and the R.-. W.-. Henry H. Ross
was re-elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made his appointments and all wer~ installed by Past Grand Masier Marsh O. Perkins,
the W.-. Bro. Damel S. Danforth acting as Master of the Ceremonies.
An elegan~ photogravure of the Officers of the Grand Lodge,
twenty-seven in number, appears in the body of the Journal,' while
the Grand Master in all his glory occupies the opening page. The
Grand Master named the Standing Committees and the Grand Lodge
closed after prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Report on Correspond.e nce is by Past Grand Master Marsh O.
Perkins, and is a thorough analysis of the transactions of the sixty
Grand Bodies reviewed, and worthy of its distinguished author.

VIRGINIA.

just and upright Mason.
VERMONT.
The Grand Lodge of Vermont held on Emergent Communicatio~ in
Brandon, October 26, 1904, for the performing of the last sad. rites
at the burial of Past Grand Master Ozro Meacham, and a Special at
Bakersfield for the constitution of <-'Barnes" Lodge, U. D.
·
The Grand Lodge held its One Hundred and Twelfth Annual at
Burlington June 14 and 15, 1905,-The' M.-. W.-. Olin W. Daley,
Grand Ma~ter, presiding, R-:. w.-. Henry H. R~ss being Grand Secretary.
d t
th
Of the 103 chartered Lodges eighty-six were represente , oge er
with thirty-two other Grand Jurisdictions. Nine Past Grand Masters
were in attendance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

. The Grand Lodge of Vkginia held its One Hundred and Twentyeighth Annual Communication in Masonic Temple, Richmond, Febr~~ry 13, 1906,-The M.-. W.:. Thomas N. Davis, Grand Master, pres1dmg, the R.-. W.-. George W. Carrington being th~ Grand Secretary.
Two hundred and ninety-one Lodges in the Jurisdiction, nearly all
being represented, together with thirty-three other Grand Jurisdictions. l!'our Past Grand Masters were in attendance.
. A portrait of the Grand Master-elect appears on the opening page.
The Grand Master opened his Address with an expression of devout
th~nksgiv~ng to God for his protection in the past and invoking his
guidance m the future. He told the brethren in earnest words his
efalted .opinion of :he office of Grand Master of_Masons. He r eported
his official acts durmg the recess. No startling innovations were intro-

58

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

duced ·and the Session passed witl;t the transaction of- its routine business, co~sisting in great part of the reports of the fifty District
Deputy Grand Masters. At the election of Officers M. ·. W. :: Kosciusko
Kemper was chosen Grand Master an~ the R.·. W.·. Bro. George Wm.
Carrington was re-elected Grand Secretary. ·The Grand Master made
his appointments and all were installed. Five Charters were granted
and one Dispensation continued.
The Standing Committees were appointed and Grand Lodge closed.
The Report on Correspondence is again submitted by the R. ·. W.:.
Bro. Joseph W. Eggleston, Chairman. The Report is a paper of 150
pages, being a review of sixty-two Grand Jurisdictions. The Report
is an excellent one, full of information, outlining the progress and
prosperity of legitimate Freemasonry.

ton, and long may he live to represent us.
plains its elf:
,

The following incident ex·

"E. H. Van Patten, Esq., Grand Master of Masons, Dayton, Wash.:
"Dear Brother Van Patten:-! received the following telegram
last Thursday (my 79th anniversary), which is very. gratifying:
" 'Waco, Texas, December 8, 1904·.
" 'T. M. Reed, Grand Secretary:
'''Grand Lodge now in Session repealed resolution of non-intercourse.
"'JOHN WATSON, G. S.'
''I· have sent a suitable response, with our congratulations, for
the happy result. Kind regards.
.
'' Fraterna)ly yours,
''T. M. REED, G. S.''

WASHINGTON.

•
The Grand Lodge of Washington held its, Forty-eighth Annual
Communication in the 'city of Bellingham, June 13, 1905,-M.:: W.:.
Edwin Hugh Van Patten, Grand Master, presiding. Washington has
a re~try of° 128 chartered Lodges, with a membership of nine thousand, and in addition at the date of this Report nine Lodges· under
Dispensation. Of these one hundred and eleven Lodges were repreiiented, together· with thirty-three other Grand Jurisdictions. The
portrait of the Grand Master Edwin Hugh Van Patten appears on the
opening page ~f this number of the Journal, and "In Memoriam" that
·of Rev. Daniel Bagley, Grand Master in 1861. The Grand Master appointed Horace W. Tyler Grand Secretary, in the absence of the Grand
Secretary Thomas Milburi;1e Reed, prevented by illness from responding to the present Annual Roll Call. Thirteen Past Grand Masters
were in attendance and the De~egates from eight of the nine Lodges
under Dispensation.
The Hon. J. W. Romaine, Mayor, welcomed Grand Lodge to the
city of Bellingham and Junior Grand Warden McAlaster responded
on behalf of the Grand Lodge. The Grand Master in his Address paid
eloquent and affectionate tribute to the dead brethren who had
passed to rest during the recess of the Grand Lodge. In the Ad'd ress
of the Grand Master we note the granting of a DispenE!ation for the
forming and opening of "Anvil" Lodge at Nome, Alaska. We also
note in the Address the statement that the Grand Lodge of California
has abolished the system of Grand Representatives. Not so, Bro. Van
Patten; it has been attempted in a clumsy sort of a way, but has not
succeeded yet. Consequently, the M.·. W.:. William H. Upton repr.e-·
sents the Grand Lodge of California at the Grand Lodge at Washing·

59

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFORNI.A..

The Grand Lodge may well appreciate our feelings upon this happy
consum1;1'1ation of an unpleasant incident, 11nd the delicate compliment
paid our Worthy Grand Secretary, by the sending of such a communication on the anniversary of his · birth.
M.·. W.·. P. G. M., Wm. H. Upton, introduced R.:.
Brother
W. A. DeWolf Smith, Grand Historian and Committee on Foreign Correspondence of the Grand Jurisdiction of British Columbia with a
fitting tribute to his worth and ability as a Masonic writer, to which
th<J R. ·. W. ·. Brother ably responded and expressed his pleasure in
being present.
The Special Committee on Obituaries, Past Grand 'Master W. H.
White, Chair~an, made a feeling and eloquent Report on the life and
Chl}.racter of Rev. Daniel Bagley, Past (}rand Master, who passed to
rest in April, 1905.
·
The usual routine of business being completed, the election of
Officers was held · and the H.·. W.: . Abraham Lincoln Miller was
chosen Grand· Master, the M.·. W.:. Thomas Milburne Reed being reelected Grand Secretary.
On motion of Past Grand Master Upton, a Committee was appointed to visit the Grand Secretary in his illness and express to him
the love and veneration of all the members of this Grand Body for
him personally and their prayers for his future happiness.
The Grand Master having made his appointments, all were installed
except the Grand Secretary, the Grand Chaplain, Grand M·a rshal and
Grand Steward.
·
The. Grand Master named the Standing Committees and Grand
Lodge closed.

w>.

I

I

f

•

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Report on Correspondence by Past Grand Master Wm. H.
Upton is one of his very best, and ~e regret very much our lack of
time and space to review it as it deserves, but what does the following mean'

61

loss will .be deeply felt by the Masonic organization he has so long
served with fervency and zeal. The business of the present Session
i~ almost entirely the general routine business transacted as year succeeds year. .
The Reports of Com.mj.ttees having been considered and disposed
of, the election of Officers was in order.
.
M. ·· W. ·. George W. McClintic was chosen Gra_n d Master, and M, :.
W.:. Hiram R. Howard, Past Grand Master, was elected Grand Secretary. The Grand Master made his appointments and all° were installed
by Past Grand Master Luther H. Clarke. At the conclusion of the
·installation exercises Past Grand ·Master George W. Atkinson presented the retiring Grand Master with a Past Grand Master's Jewel.
Past Grand Master Howard was named as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence. The Grand Lodge closed at low twelve.
Past Grand Master and Correspondent Geo. W. Atkinson's last Report on Correspondence was a lengthy paper, .310 pages. It was the
twentieth Report of Bro. · A. and an unlimited review of sixty-six
Grand Jurisdictions.

Farewell.
But the hour is at hand. Brethren of the Guild, I shall be with
you no more. In spirit I pass silently around th.e table where you sit
and tender to each of you the warm grasp of a hand that never knowingly did any man a wrong. May the work which we have all been
doing, in diverse ways and ·from· different points of view, redound to
the good of Masonry; may you long be spared to continue that work;
may success attend all your efforts for good; may happiness mark your
days and the lives of those dear to you; and may our Father in
Heaven have you ever in His holy keeping. So mote it be.
''Fraternally submitted,
"WILLIAM H. UPTON,
"Walla Walla, 5905.
'' Co=ittee. ''
WEST VIRGINIA.
The Grand Lodge of West Virginia held thirteen Special Communications during the recess. Six for the placing of · corner-stones
of public buildings, three for the constitution of Lodges, four for the·
dedication of Masonic Halls, and an Emergent on the 25th of October,
1905, for the exercise of the miraculous power and Grand Master's
prerogative of making a Mason at sight.
The Forty-first Annual was held in Masonic Temple, in the city of
Charleston, November 15, 1905,-M.·. W.·. Luther H. Clarke, Grand
Master, presiding.
The Grand Jurisdiction has registered on its Roll of Lodges 126
chartered Lodges, with a membership of 10,121, with six under Dispensation. Of these 123 were represented, with two of the Lodges
under Dispensation. l!'ifteen Past Grand Masters were present and the
Representatives of twenty-eight other Grand Jurisdictions.
Portraits of Geo. W. McClintic, Grand Master, of M,·. W.-. Geo.
Walkinson, Past Grand Master, and Grand Secretary Edwin Leslie
Boggs, late Assistant Grand Secretary, and W.-. Bro. James Brown.
"In Memoriam" appear in this number of the Journal M. ·. W. ·•
George W. Atkinson, for many years Grand Master, Grand Secretary
and Correspondent of West Virginia, having received an appointment
in the Federal judicial family, will in the near future be domiciled in
the city of Washington, and has thought it his duty to retire from
official service with the Grand Lodge of West Virginia. No doub t his
0

WISCONSIN.

'

The Grand Lodge of Wisconsin held its Sixty-first Annual Communication in the Masonic Building, Milwaukee, June i'3, 1905,-The
M.:. W.·. David H. Wright, Grand Master, presiding, the R.·. W.·.
William W. Perry being Grand Secretary.
Wisconsin has registered on its Roll 254 Lodges, 239 of which were
repr~sented at this Annual. The Lodge membership is 21,251. Fortytwo other Grand Jurisdictions were also represented. Fourteen Past
Grand Masters were in attendance.
In his Address the Grand Master reported a prosperous year. Peace
and harmony ruled within its Lodges, with progress and prosperity
on every hand. He reported the passing to rest of two Past Grand
Masters, M.:. W.-. Brothers Oliver ·Libbey, who was Grand Master in
1884-85, and E. E . Chapin in 1880-81. He a~nounced a number of appointments of Representatives near other Grand Lodges. Under
Decisions, he reported a' number of answers to questions for the construction of certain laws, but made no important decisions. The
Grand Master closed his Address wit h a brief statement that might
cause him to be dubbed the veteran Grand Master. We salute you
Grand Master Wright and wish you many years of refreshment after
so much labor. We quote:
"I have witnessed forty-eight sessions of this Grand Lodge. I
th'st came to Grand Lodge in 185~, as Secretary of "Madison" Lodge,

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 5, and in 1855 'aB its Senior Warden, and have not missed a session since. I have met here every Grand Master except Bro. Kavanaugh, and every Grand Secretary except Bro. Ben C. Eastman.'' A
fine record.
Eloquent memorials were reported to Past Grand Masters Oliver
Libbey and E. E . Chapin and adopted and placed of record in the
Archives of the Grand Lodge.

The Grand Master named the Committees and proceeded to deliver
his Annual A~dress. ·He congratulated Grand Lodge that· although the
year just closed had been uneventful, yet Masonry had prospered with
them as never before in the history of Wyoming. No st.artling. events
had occurred. He would express the thaU:ksgiving they were in duty
bound to express that while other Jurisdictions liad been sadly afflicted
with the loss of leaders eminent in the Fraternity, they had been
spared, and not a member of the official household had been summoned. No important decisions were reported. The year had been
prosperous, although a quiet one, the Session consequently was confined
to .the transaction of the routine business of the Jurisdiction.. Bro.
Kuykendall submits his Report with the following cherry note:

Most of the business before Grand Lodge having been concluded,
the election of Officers for the ensuing year was declared in order
and the M.·." W.·. Jesse C. Bradly w~s chosen Grand Master, and R.·.
W. ·. William M. Perry, who, by the by, was Grand Master in.1895,
· was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The several Committees reported and the Grand Master, having
made the appointments, all were installed by Past Grand Master
Nathan C. Griffin, Past Grand Master Aldro Jenks acting as Master
of the Ceremonies.
The retiring Grand Master was presented with a Past Grand
Master's Jewel in a most eloquent Address by Past Jpnior Grand
Warden Franklin P. Ainsworth. The Grand Lodge was then ·closed.
Past Grand Master and Chairman of· Correspondence Bro. Aldro
Jenks. Bro. Jenks' Reports are never other. than intelligent and abie,
the present conclusion, the subject whereof is "The Recognition of
Grand Lodges and Their Effects," a generally neglected subject in
Masonic jurisprudence.
WYOMING.
The Grand Lodge of Wyoming held a Special Communication in
the town of Thermopolis, july 25, i905, for the purpose of placing the
corner-stone of the Masonic Temple in course of erection .for "Malta"
Lodge, No. 17, and in the to~n of Douglas, Augu.st 2d, in the Hall of
"Ashler" Lodge, No. 10, for the placing of. the cQrner-stone of the
Converse county 1:ourthouse; and, again, in the town 'of Sheridan, assembling in the Hall of "Sheridan" Lodge, No. 6, to place the
corner-stone of the Sheridan county courthouse.
The Thirty-first Annual Communication was held in Laramie, September 6, 1905,-The M. ·. W. :. Frank A. Luckfield, Grand Master,
presiding.
There are twenty-three Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction, with a
membership of 1,819 Master Masons. Of these seventeen Lodges were
represented at tlie present Annual. Seven Past Grand Masters were in
attendance.

63

"In concluding this, my nineteenth Report as your Grand Secretary, it may not be out of place 'to say that in the roll of Grand
Secretaries I 'now rank as number twelve in length of service. My
name as Grand Secretary is attached to every Lodge Charter in the
State except the first six. During my service membership has increased from 493 to 1,809, and I have received in Grand Lodge funds
altogether the sum of $25,600.94, every cent of which has been
promptly paid to Grand Treasurer, as printed Annual Proceedings
show. Of this record I am, as I believe, entitled to here say that I am
proud; and yet I am prouder still of the long-continued confidence I
have enjoyed at your hands, for which I thank you.
· ' Respi::ctfully submitted,
'' W. L. KUYKENDALL,
' 'Grand Secretary. ''

The election of Officers being in order, the M. ·. W. :. Bro. M. R.
Johnston was chosen Grand Master, and the R.·. W. ·. Bro. William
L. Kuykendall was re-elected Grand Secretary and Corresp.ondent.
· A photogravure of the new Grand Master appears on the opening
page of this number of the Journal. The .Grand Master made his
appointments and all were installed by Past Grand Master J. M. Rumsey, Bro. Hugh Hynds acting as· Master of the Ceremonies. The
Standing · Committees were appointed and after prayer by the Grand
Chaplain the Grand Lodge closed in Ainple Form.
Bro. Kuykendall submits his usual review of other Grand Jurisdictions composing· the Masonic World. That the Report is an excellent review of the transactiosn in Masonry for the. year 1905 goe~
without saying. Masanry is both prosperous and progressive. "So
say we all of us.''

•

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
CONCLUSION.

GRAND OFFICERS

We submit the foregoing as our Report on Correspondence. We
had not intended to write it, but the Grand Master, having thought
proper to name us again for the work, and in delaying the e:xplanation
to him of our reasons for not wishing to discharge the duty until too
late to give him a fair chance to select another, we have written
the paper we submit herewith as our final Report.
Respectfully submitted,
WM. A. DAVIES,
Chairman.

OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L, 5906

Alameda, Septem~r 20, 1906.

•

M·".W.'.Edward H. Hart. . .. . Grand Master.. .......... Berkeley
R: ·W .'·George M. Perine ..... Dep. Grand Master ... San Francisco
R.'.W.".Reuben H. Lloyd ..... Sen. Grand Warden . .. San Fr~ncisco
R ". W .' ·Oscar Lawler .. ...... Jun. Grand Warden .... Los Angeles
y:.w.".Edward Coleman...... Grand Treasurer .. . .. San Francisco
y: .w: ·George Johnson ....... Grand Secretary ...... San Francisco
y:.W.".William H. Edwards .. Grand Lecturer ...... San Francisco
Y·"R .'.Ernest E. Baker .. ·.... Grl\nd Chaplain .... ... ... Oakland
W.' ·Jacob Nieto ......... Grand Orator ... : ... San Francisc'o
W· ··Harry S. Johnson... ... Asst. Grand ~cretary .. San Francisco
w:.Delos W. Smythe ..... Grand Marshal. ......... San Jose
w. · ·Chaun.cey C. Bush .... Grand Bible Bearer ....... Redding
W.' -Arthur J .. Thatcher .... Grand Sword Bearer .. ..... . Ukiah
W· ··Samuel Prager ....... Grand Standard Bearer .. Los Angeles
W.'-Thomas J. Baker ...... Senior Grand Deacon .... ~acramento
W.'.Albert B. Webster .... Junior Grand Deacon ...... Oakland
w:.John T. Morrison ..... Senior Grand Steward ..... Berkeley
W.'.Albert L. Reed ....... Junior Grand Steward ....... Suisun
W ·'.Louis L. Janes ....... Grand Pursuivant. .. .. . Mill _Yalley
W· ··Samuel D. Mayer ..... Grand Organist ...... San Francisco
W.'.George P. Adams ..... Grand Tyler ...... . . San Francisco

\

ROSTER
OF THK

SUBORDINATE LODGES
UNDID? THE JURisDICTION OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR THE YEAR ENDING JULY 31, A. L 5906,
WITH OFFICERS FOR 5907.

CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 1.
. Ban Francisco, San Franctsco County.
Stated Meetings, First Thursday in Each Month.
OFFICERS:
William James Goleher, Master,
Wm. Charles Hassler, Junior Deacon,
Francis V. Keesling, Sen. Warden, Arthur Morris Flood, Marshal,
Hans. Theo. Henning, Jun. Ward., Frank Newton Staley, Steward,
August Herrmann Muller, Treasurer, Paul Milton Downing, Steward,
Franklin Henry Day, Secretary,
Samuel David Mayer, Organist,
Daniel Elisn11 F. Easton Sen Deac., Geo. Perrin Adams, Tyler,
MEMBERS:
Abbott, William Martin
Adair, Charles James
Adams, Charles Hitchcock
Adams, George Perrin
Adams, Henry Willis
Ahman, Amandus
Alderson, Harry Ev~rett
Alexander, William Stanley
Allison, Edward Ralston
Ames, George Elias
Archer, Albert Sayers
Archer, James, Jr.
Ascroft, Henry, p, M.

Avery, William Henry
Babcock, John Pease
Bachelder, Charles Sumner
Backman, Gotthard Sigismund
Bailey, Charles Arthur
Baker, Charles Henry
Baldwin, Frederick Albert
Bannister, Alfred
Barbier, Howard Frederic .
Baum, .David Andrew
Banmeister, Bernhardt Hermann
Beanst<in, George Alexander
Beanston, Wallace Hall

2

Bell, William Troup
Bengtson, .iohn
Bennett, George Edward
. Benson, John Adelbert
Binning, Charles
Birdsall, Ernest Stratton
Black, Howard
Black, Orlow
Blake, Alfred Edward
Blakiston, Duncan George
Bliss, Walter Danforth
Blossom, Henry Eckford
Bocarde, George Uriah
Bocarde, James Blain
Bogart, Sewall Butman
Boggs, Angus Gordan
Bonner, Andrew
Boobai:, James Guptill
Boole, Fred Warren
Bouse, John ·
Boxton, Charles
Bradbury, Alfred William
Bragg, Robert
Brice, William
Bridge, William Edward
Brink, Charles Henry
Brittan, Nathaniel Jones
Brittingham, Eijsha Franklin
Bromley, George Tisdale, P. M.
Brown, Albert Webster
Brown, Andrew Washington
Brown, Jos~ph Anthony
Brown, Roland Gair
Brown, William Anderson
Brumagim, Mark
Buckbee, Samuel Griggs
Buraen, Wilson
Buckhart, Henry Zadoc
Burnet, Henry Melnott
Burns, Robert, Jr.
Busse, Frank Adolf
Cannell, Samuel Bartley
Carles, HonCJre Romolo
Caswell, Marion F.
Cates, William Everett
Caverly, LeRoy Eugene

ROSTER.
Chandler, Charles Strother
Chapman, Albert Jules
Chaquette, Camille Adams
Childs, Ge,orge, P. M.
Chrititenson, Edwin Axel
Clark, Edward Joseph
Clark, John Franklin
Cline, Cecil Cephas .
Cline, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Clough, Theodore Neilson
Cobb, William Lewis
Cochell, John Thomas
Coffee, Ernest Haquette
Cogswell, James Lafayette, P. M.
Cole, Percy John
Coles, Charles Petley
Colter, Arthur Newton
Comstock, John Felt Osgood
Coningham, Grove
·
Coppage, John Clark
Corbus, Adam William
Corbus, John Parker
Cornwall, Bruce
Cox, Frank Van Ness
Coxhead, Almeric W. Sylvester
Craig, Homer Theodore
Crim, William Henry
Crocker, Henry Joseph
Crocker; William, P. M.
Crocker, William Henry
Crothers, George Edward
Crothers, Thomas Graham
Culverwell, Richard Stephen, P. M.
Cummings, Walter Bailey
Cunningham, Arthur George
Cunningham, John Francis
Cushing, Frank Worthy, P M.
Daggett, John Randolph
Dall, Peter Peterson
Dallam, Fred Bo6thby
Dalton, Franklin
Dalton, Thomas Benton
Dam, Francis Herbert
Davis, Charles Frederick
Davis, Harold Edgeworth
Davis, Milo Smith

ROSTER.

•

Day, Franklin Henry, P. M.
Dayton, Walter Stewart
DeConinck, Frank Camille
Deering, Thomas Patrick
Degen, Walter
Detrick, Henry Lyster
Dewey, Daniel ·L.
Dewey, William Pierce
Dickinson, John Henry, P. M.
Dietterle, George, P. M.
Dixon, John
Doble, William Ashton
Dobler, Charles
Dodd, Willis Gorman
Dorhniann, William Charles
Dorn, Diademus Socrates
Dougherty, Charles Medley, P. M.
Dow, George Edwin
Dow, Wallace Hanscom.
Dowling, Thomas Henry
Downing, Paul Milton
Drak.'11 Frank Babbitt
Drake, Robert Morris
Driscoll, Daniel Oliver
Duffie, Christopher Wilson
Dunker, John Adolph
Dunn, James
Earl, Sumner Fremont
Easton, Ansel Mills
Easton, Daniel Elisha Foote
Eastwood, Joseph
Eckhart, William Roberts
Eddy, Richard A.
Edwards, Frederick Jay
Edwards, Rodney Miller
Effinger, John Henry
Eisenmann, Philip Joseph
Eitel, Edward Everett
Elliot, John P.
Elwert, Charles Philip
Erlin, George Edwin
Etting, Charles William
Etting, William August
Everett, Oliver
Everett, Wallace Washburn
Ewart, David Fraser

Farley, Walter Hawthorne
Farnsworth, Millard Allen
Farquharson, David
Ferguson, Tilghman Howard
Feusier, Clarence Louis
Fiege, Arthur Conrad
Finck, Julius
Firth, Joseph Kirk
Fish, Edward Nye
Fisher, W. Charles Henry
Flagg, William Henry
Fle~~. Thomas
Flood, Arthur Morris
Fonda, William Thomas, P. M.
Forbes, William Henry
Foy, Charles William
Frank, John
Franklin, Max John
Fraser, Hugh
Fredericks, George
Fulcher, Charles Nelson
Gantner, John Oscar
Gardner, Samuel James
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Gawne, Walter Whitfield
Gehret, Frederick
Geilfuss, Carl
Gere, George Grant, P. 'N:.
Gibson, James Spaulding
Gillson, John
Givens, James David
Glass, Louis, P. M.
Gleason, George Ruggles
Golcher, Henry Coughlin
Golcher, William James
Graff, IDrich
Graham, Gerald Oakeley
Grawz, Charles Henry
Grau, Louis Henry
Gray, George Freeman
Gray, Harry Nathaniel
Gray, Robert Brockhouse
Green, Charles Ernest
Greenhood, Hugo Oscar
Grier, Arthur Jay
Griffith, John Beruth

3

4

ROSTER.

Griffith, John Wesley
Grimes, George Lyman, P. M.
Hackett, Francis Marion, P. M.
Hagmaier, Charles
Haight, Robert Fletcher
Hall, Norman Freeman
Hall, Robert
Halsey, Theodore Vail
Hamilton, Hiram Milton
Hammer, William Hollingsworth
Hand, William Mulford
Hanssen, Olaf J orgen
Harrelson, William Hasting
Harrison, Alvin Benjamin
Harrison, Samuel Ingleby
Haseltine, Charles Woodward
Hassler, William Charles
Hatch, Robert Denison
Hauxhurst, Samuel Weeks
Haven, Charles Dwight
Hayward, Henry Martin
Heald, Edward Payson
Hedstrom, Bernard
Helen, Richard
Helm, William James
Helman, Gilbert Wayne
Henderson, Thomas Louden
Henning, Hans Theodore
Henry, George Jackson, Jr.
Herrington, Charles Howell
Heuer, George Frederick
Heyer, William Christopher
Heywood, William Brewer
Hickei, Oscar Herbert
Hill, Isaac Leroy
Hills, Ernest Herbert, P. M.
Hilton, Joseph Henry
Hinton, Arthur William
Hoffman, Henry Nathaniel
Hoffman, John
Hoitt, Ralph Howland
Holt, Cyril Edward
Holzheid, Armin Rudolph
Hood, George
Hopkins, MathE'w Leander
Hosmer, Harrie Bordley

Houghton, Robert Otis
Howard, Charles Webb
Howard, Horace Pember
Howard, Horace Zerah
Howard, Joseph Louis
Howes, Cyrus Pierce
Hubbard, Henry Calvin
Hubbard, Thomas Jay
Huested, Orson Justus
Huff, Abram
Hufschmidt, George Frederick
Hunt, John Hosford
Hunt, Richard Hosford
Hunt, William Black
Hunter, Robert Aitchison
Itsell, Andrew Jackson
Jacoby, Julius Herman
James, Albert .Charles
James, Frank
Jeffers, Milo Sidney
Jenner, Charles Kirkham
Jessup, John DeLamater
Johnson, Charles Orrick
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Johnson, Ernest Lincoln L.
Johnson, George, P. M.
Johnson, Mathias
Johnson, Roosevelt
Johnston, Charles Robert
Jones, Edward Kirkland
Jones, Henry Isaac
Jones, William Roderick
Kahles, Frank
Keesling, Francis Valentine
Kelso, John
Kemp, John Henry
Kerrell, Albert George Daw
Kimble, Liston
King, Joseph Libbey
King, William Henry
Kingsbury, George William
Kinne, Charles Mason
Kinsey, Charles Caswell
Kirk, Robert
Kirkpatrick, Thomas
Kittridge, Ralph Bell

ROSTER.

•

•

•

•

~in, John Edward
Kline, ifames Joseph
Knight, Edward Dexter
Knight, George Alexander
Knighton, Robert
Koenig, Frank
Koenig, Gustav William
Kohler, Henry
Kreeger, Charles Strouse
Kuehn, George Washington
LaGrange, Millard Fillmore
Lake, Edward Hills
Lamb, Thomas Jackson
Landers, John
Landgrebe, Robert George
Larken, James Frederic
Lathrop, Charles Leonard
Lawson, Andrew
Lee, John, Jr.
Leinhardt, John
Libby, Warren Thompson
Likens, James William
Litchfield, Joseph Miller
Locke, Hollis Maine
Long, Seely Frederick
Lorton, Frederick Douglas
Low, Joseph Coolidge
Low, Thomas Griffin
Lyon, William Henry, P. M.
Lyons, James Henry
Mackay, Walter Shirlaw
Madden, Wilkes Cuyler
Madison, Henty Bennett
Malmgren, Niles Peter
Mann, Azro Levi
Marshutz, "Leon Charles
Martell, Harry Gaylord
Martin, James Christopher
Martin, Minor Silas
Martin, Robert Samuel
Marvin, Frank William
Marvin, Harvey Arrington
.Marvin, Harvey LeFevTe
Marye, George Thomas
Matheson, Duncan
Mathews, George Sumner

Matthews Arthur Wellington
Mau, William Frederick
Maxwell, Harry Jennings
Mayer, Samuel David
Maynard, James, Jr.
Mayo, Henry Browne
McCollister, William Morse
Mcconkey, Thomas Graham
McCurdy, Daniel
McDonald, James Monroe
McFarlane, Peter Dunn
McKay, James Finlay
McKee, Joseph Claybaugh, P. M.
McLean, Niel A.
-McMillan, Robert, P. M.
McNaught, John
McNear, George Washington
McWilliams, John Adam
Meigs, Anson Woodman
Merrill, John Francis
Merrill, John Sroufe
Mersing, George Julius Martin
Merton, Lewis Burrell
Milling, William
Mills, Frederick Clinton
Mills, William Lucas Bisset
Mitchell, John Samuel
Moore, Andrew
Moore, Charles Caldwell
Moore, Charles Parker
Moore, Robert S.
Moore, William Lewis
Moormann, Julius ChristescI!
Morey, Ellwood Perry
Morrison, William Hamilton
Morrow, William Stuart
Morton; Julius Wetzlar
M.uller, Adolphe
Muller, August Herrmann
Munch, Robert
Murdock, George Leonard
Murgatroyd, Ben
Murschel, Albert
Nagel, Louis Mortimer
Neal, Charles Sanders
Nelson, Benjamin Henry

5

6

ROSTER.

Nelson, Elmer Ellsworth
Nelson, James Brown
Nelson, William Hel!'ry
Newell, William Harold, Jr.
Newlands, John Cassell
Newman, George Howard
Newton, George Francis
Nickerson, Frank William
Niggle, John George
Noteware, Edward Washington
Olsen, William
Ormond, John Allyn
Orne, William Henry
Otersen, Herman
Ouer, Frederick Frank
Owens, Henry Morgan, P. M.
Palmer, Brooks
Parker, Harvey Drury
Patton, Charles Lewis, P. G. M.
Payne, George Lingard
Payne, Warren Ritch
Peabody, Edward, P. M.
Peabody, Edward William, P M.
Pendergast, James Albert
Perkins, Thomas Allen
Perrin, Howard Elmer
Peters, James Frank
Peterson, Howard Bertram
Pettis, William Henry
Pfaeflle, Robert William
Phelps, Charles David
Phillips, William Rippard
Pierce, William Byron
Platt, Horace Garvin
Plevin, James Ralph
Plincz, John Karol
Plum, Charles Mortimer, P. M.
Plummer, Alvin
Porter, Abel Willard
Powell, John Milton
Powers, Frank H.
Queisser, Alexander
Ralph, Burlington K.
Ramsdell, Harry Vinton
Rasmussen, Peter
Rasor, David Walter ·

Redding, Frederick Grant
Reed, Wallace ·weller
Reid, James William
Reid, Merritt Jonathan
Renner, George
Renstrom, Frank Oscar
Richardson, Ernest James
Richardson, George Horatio
Rickon, Frederic J. Henry, P. M.
Ridley, Arthur Ernest Brooke
Riess, John William
Robb, Frank
Robertson, John Prince
Robison, Ansel Cobb
Robison, Merritt David
Roes, John Edward Albert
Roller, Charles August
Rolls, John Percy
Rolph, Clarence Athol
Rolph, James, Jr.
Rolph, Joseph William
Ross, Donald
Rowell, Leonard Freeland
Rulofson, Alfred Currie
Rundell, William Mason, P. M.
Runyon, Albert James
Russell, Alexander
Russell, John Elisha, P. M.
Ryan, Michael
Scheide, William Cornell
Schiegner, Frederick Nelson
Schlott, Ernest Frederick
Schmidt, Louis
Scott, Harry Sweet
Scott, Walter Amos, P. M.
Scovel, George Scofield
Searle, James John
Searles, Dennis
Shannon, Guy Stuart
Sharp, Arthur Maxwell
Sim, Walter Berry
Simmons, Haydn Mozart
Sinn, John George
Slack, Charles. William
Slater, John Charles
Slocum, Clinton Dodge

ROSTER.

•

•

•

•

•

•

Smith, Francis
Smith, Frank
Smith, Harry Gardiner
Smith, Henry Alexander
Smith, Herbert
Smith, ·James D.
Smith, Lester Baylies
Smith, Selden Cornelius
Smith, William Jacob
Soule, Arthur Calvin
Soule, Milan
Spear, Arthur Whipple
Spiller, George Weldon
Spruance, John
Stadtfeld, Jacob
Stadtfeld, William Benedict
Staley, Frank Newton
Stattman, Charles Christian
Stanford, William Estell
Stange, Walter John
Starbird, Albion Wilson
Steers, Ji]dward Everett
Stevens, William Emer~on (L.A.)
Stevens, William Emerson (S. F.)
Stevenson, Edward Alexander
Stock, Edward Richard
Stoutenburgh, Edgar Charles
Strong, George Josiah
Sudden, Robert
Sutherland, Fred Barrington
Swasey, Edgar Marshall
Swears, William Bernard
Swinerton, William Arthur
Taylor, Albert Miles
Taylor, Charles Little
Taylor, Henry Huntly
Taylor, Thomas Hardin
Thomas, Edward William
Thompson, Frederick William
rin"al, James Watson
Tisdale, Robert Francis
Titchworth, Casper
Tolmie, Robert Currie
Tompkins, Minthorne Mortimer
Towne, Arthur Gowing
Townsend, George Elliot

Trephagen, William Arthur
Turner, Alfred Joseph
Umbsen, Henry Philip, P. M.
Unger, Adolph
Unger, Milton Edwin
Upham, Benjamin Prince
Upham, Isaac Oliver
Van Bergen, Henry
Vance, Ira Linco~n
Vanderlip, Harry Franklin
Van Luven, Hermon
Varian, Henry
Vaughan, Hiram G.
Vogel, Edward John
Yon Staden, George
Von Tillow, Ward Wright
Wadsworth, Charles Curtiss
Wakefield, Franklin Webster
Walbey, Bertie Robert Cecil
Walker, Isaac Cushman
Walker, James Greig
Walker, Shirley Cyrus
Walsh, Vincent Sanders
Wapple, Albert Michael
Watson, John Park
Watters, James Arthur.
Weber, Adolph Hans
Weeks, John Allard, Jr.
Weil, John Perez
Wentz, John Joseph
Wescott, Otis Harten
West, Robert Bachman
West, Thomas Christopher
Westerfed, Otto Ferdinand
Wheaton, Milton Alverd
Wheelan, Fairfax Henry
White, George Knight, P . M.
White, Ralston Lovell
Whitely, Henry Mallard
Whitney, John Blackett
Whittle, Henry
Wiborn, J. Auburn
Wilkie, Andrew
Wilkie, Andrew, Jr.
Wilkie, Francis Alexander
Wilkins, James Malcolm

7

ROSTER.

8

Will, Frederick Adolph
Willard, William Patten
Willcox, Raymond Hawkins, P. M.
Williams, Harry Alston
Williams, William Ralston
Williams, William Robert
Willman, Alexander, P. M.
Wilson, Charles D., P. M.
Wilson, William Ai:chibald
Winants, Newell
Wirtner, John Jacob
Wisewell, Charles Arthur
Witham, Heber William
Wolters, Henry Joseph
Wood, Louis Earl

ROSTER.

Woodbury, Warren Dean
Woodsum, Oliver. Perry
Wray, Samuel
Wright, Alvin Henri
Wright, Charles William
Wright, Cyrus Smith
Wright, George
Wulzen, John Frederick
Yates, Charles Morris, Jr.
Yates, William Frederick
Young, Edwin Curtis
Young, George Herbert
Young, Shirley Trever
Youngberg, Charles John
607

WESTERN STAR LODGE, No. 2.
Shasta, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or Next Preceding Full Moon.

•

OFFICERS:
Wm. Abraham Speak, Master,
Richard Bruce Ross, Senior Delle.,
Briceland Cooper Blair, Sen. Ward., Grant Alfred Schroter, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Searle Rountree, Jun. Ward., Frank Peck Satterlee, Marshal,
James Lee Richardson, Treas.
Lloyd Lee Carter, Steward,
Elvis Newton Eaton, Secretary,
Michael Roush Newman, Steward,
Everett French Crocker, Tyler,
MEMBERS:
Affeltranger, Ferdenand
Alexander, John
Andrew, William
Anger, Robert Nelson
Bickford, William Henry
·Bossyn, John ·
Boswell, William Alexander
Bystle, Adolph, P. M.
Boswell, Andrew Jackson
Baker, William Henry
Blair, Briceland Cooper
Brown, Charles Eugene

Balch, John Adrian
Buscomb, William Henry
Burtis, Charles James
Crocker, Everet French
Cole, Willard Leonard
Chandler, Edward Augustus
Cushing, Horato Weska
Carter, Lloyd Lee
Dameron, Paul Eugene
Davis, Thomas
Davidson, Harry
Davis, James A.

•

Donaldson, Fay
Davis, George Miller
Eaton, Elvis Newton
French, John Alexander
Flynn, Francis
Failing, Ottis Claud
Forbs, Nilles Burton
Green, Thomas
Gardner, John William
Green, Ho.race Weir
Gibson, Charles Francis
Grant, Edgar McLean
Graham, Albert
Gillispie, Adam
Grant, Angus
Hampton, Wade
Hoyle, Reuben
Hoyle, John Elkanah
Hudson, Harry Charles
Harrington, John Cornelius
Ingram, Ralph
Johnson, Andrew
Jose, Charles Frederick
Jade, William
Kerr, Francis Emmitt
Limbaugh, Nathanial
Lamus, Nelson Edward, P. M.
Leatch, Allen Mebius
Moulter, Frank Erastus
Mudd, Harry Peacock
Moore, Forest
Minderman, John Herman
Macdonald, Andrew
Manning, Lemuel Sargent
Misener, Alva Ansen
McDonald, Luke
McDonald, Bernard
McDonald, Peter
Mills, Edward James
Nichols, Thomas William
Norton, Charles
Neilson, Thomas
Nightwine, Martin Elmer
Newman, Michael Roush
Overmeyer, Charles Edwin
Obradovich, Samuel Milo

Patterson, Alexander
Patterson, Frank
Parson, Abraham Lincoln
Regan, James
Recardo, John D.
Richardson, James Lee, P. M.
Reel, Louis
Rosevear, Samuel John
Radulovich, Christopher
Reinhaus, Gustave
Roeder, George John
Rosenberg, Samuel
Ross, Richard Bruce
Ross, Alfred Marshall
Rountree, Henry Searle
Shuffelton, Hugh Hall
Syme, John
Strode, John Sale
Sweeny, Edward, P. M .
Satterlee, Frank Peck, P. M,
Strode, George Crone
Smiley, James Andrew
Seineke, Frank George
Schroter, Grant Alfred, P. M.
Sevenman, George William
Smith, Henry Lee
Swanson, John August
Speak, William Abraham
Shaw, Joseph James
Simon, Joseph Goodwin
Terry, John Jose
Thompson, James
Tease, Chester James
Thomas, David
Trav~rs, James Arthur
Tillman, August
Tucker, James Edward
Warfield, Robert
Weil, Joseph, P. M.
Willson, Frederick Eaton
Wood, Beverly Walter
White, John Wesley
Webster, Charles Edward
Weinstrom, John Oscar
Y elland, Edward ·
Young, William Bradley.
-116

9

10

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

TEHAMA LODGE, No. 3.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated :Meetings first Monday in each month
OFFICERS:
John Wesley Warren, Master,
Robert Orren Bell, Senior Deacon,
Louis David Ehret, Sen. Warden, John :Mcindeor, Junior Deacon,
Louis Geiger, Junior Warden,
Egbert Alfred Brown, Marshal,
William Ohmer Girardey, Treas.,
Halleck Hart Look, Steward,
Theo. Jones :Milliken, Secretary,
Henry A. W. Lindgreen, Steward,
Robert Oscar Cravens, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Copelin, Thomas Edward
Cravens, Robert Oscar, P. M .
Cuthbert, William Williams
Davis, William Buckley, P. M.
Davis, William Hewson, P. M.
Davisson, Downing Baugh
DeCoe, Culver Adam
Derman, George Lewis
Derman, William Frederick
Dodge, John Harry
Dresher, Valentine
Drew, Warren Francis
Driver, Grant Simpson
Driver, Philip Sample, P. M.
Ehret, Louis David
Eilers, Theodore George
Ellick, Joseph Charles
Ernst, Cuno August
Ferriter, Thomas
Fisch, Willard Fre'd
Foye, William Robinson Smith
Frommelt, Hugo
Futhey, James Allen
Geeslin, John William, P. M.
Geiger, John Henry
Geiger, Louis ·
Gett, William Andrew
Girardey, William Ohmer, P. M.
Givens, Charles Stuart
Goss, Charles Richard
Goulden, James
Halley, Walter

Arnold, John Henry
Banvard, Louis Howell
Barrett, Isaac Thomas
Barton, Charles 'Ihomas, P. M.
Barton, James Nichols
Bass, Edward Franklin
. Bath, William
Baughman, Wm. Elias John, P. M.
Bell, Robert Orren
Bergna, Peter
Birt, William Randolph
Bittancourt, Thomas Maria, P. M.
Black, John Alexander
Blue, Myron Hooker
Briggs, Alfred
Briggs, Wallace Alvin
Brown, Charles Manning
Brown, Egbert Alfred
Brown, Simeon
Burgess, Alfred Llewellyn
Burnett, Augustus
Burns, Charles Victor .
Carlson, Charles Alfred
Carmichael, Daniel Webster
Carpenter, Richard Julius, P. M.
Caselli, Ansono
Champlin, Nelson
Chapman, George Warren
Church, William Smithers
Chrisman, Elmer Judson
Clarke, Joseph :Marshall
Clemolll!, William Strong

•

.,,

..
•

Harper, Horatio Thomas
Harper, Thomas
Harvey, Robert Alfred
Haub, John
Hawk, Elbridge LaFayette, P. M.
Hawk, Owen Dowd
Hayden, John Burt
Hayden, John Henry
Haynes, Edward
•
Heck, John
Heilbron, Irving Louis
Heintzelman, Taylor Washington
Reisen, Harry
Hill, William
Hintze, Emil Frederick
Hooper, Harry Greenough
Hopkins, Stephen Irving
Hotchkiss, Frederick Spencer
Hubbard, Cyrus Hayden
Hughes, Eugene J .
Hyman, Daniel
!kin, Arthur John
Jackman, Samuel Hason
Jackson, William Franklin
James, George Somerset
James, Joseph William
Johnson, August Galmer
.Johnston, Alfred J.
Kimbrougl\, Richa'rd Oscar
Kincaid, Elbert Sevier
King, George Thomas
Knox, William Frederick
Lewis, Leonidas Lee
Lindgreen, Henry August W.
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman
Littlefield, Lewis Bunch
Look, Halleck Hart
Love, Andrew Campbell
Martin, James Thurston, P. M.
Mayhew, Leonard Thomas
McAnear, Samuel Francis
Mcindeor, john
McMaster, James Curtin
Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Miller, Frank Fargo
Milliken, Theodore Jones, P. M.

Morris, Isidor Frederick
Nathan, Myron Sol
Nathan, Solomon Gottlieb
Overmyer, Frank Elmer
Pearson, John Lewis
Philip, Robert
Pike, John Elias Tucker
Plate, Louis Reignhardt
Pomeroy, Charles Harrington
Poorman, Samuel
Potter, Lyme M.
Prentiss, Charles Frederic
Richmond, Thomas Hugh
Riley, David Boland
Reuter, Carl Henry
Roberts, John Henry
Roblin, Frederick Albert, P. M.
Rohrer, Frederick William
Ross, Frank Andrew
Ruhstaller, Frank
Rumage, Otto
Schadt, Frederick William
Schaumloffel, William
Scheunert, Carl Emil
Schwartz, Charles August
Schwartz, Clemens William
Scott, Thomas James
Sim, Edgar William
Sim, William Wellox, P. M.
Skelton, John
Sonne, Andrew Christian
Spurlock, Ernest
Stanton, Perrin, P. M.
Steinman, Irving Leland
Stober, Frederick Conrad, P. M.
Stoll, Benjamin Franklin
Strader, Harvey Winton
Sturmer, Simon Charles
Taylor, Arthur Bloom
Teeter, John Kenney
Thirkield, Frank Lytle; P. M.
Thompson, James Ellsworth, P. M.
Todd,' John William
Tubbs, Henry Osmond
Ulp, Alfred
Vermilya, Abram John, P. M.

11

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

12
Vermilya, Abram John, Jr.
Waller, William John
Walther, William Rudolph
Warren, John Wesley
Washb~n, Waldo Abisha
Weinreich, Charles Edward
Wertheimer, Bert L.
White, Stephen Arthur Douglas
Whited, Jerry Hinchman

Wight, Albert Harrison
Wilson, Thomas
Wood, Thomas
Woodburn, Charles Gabriel
Woodward, George Allen
Wratten, James Edward
Wright, Henry Eugene
Wright, John ¥elvin

•

-173

BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicia, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Ernest Furbush, Master,
Luther Blake Cooper, Sen Deacon,
Eugene Carrol Stevens, Sen. Ward., William John Schmidt, Junior Deac,
Warden Vietor Coleman Jun. Ward., Edwin Estey, Marshal,
Sidney Frame, Treasurer,
Edmund Rudolph Anderson, Stew 'rd,
John Robert B. Chisholm, Secretary, Otto Herman Singlar, Steward,
Isaac Dawson, Chaplain,
Phillip Jacob 'lroutwine, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
De Forest, John, P. M.
Allen, John
De La Rue, Robert Edwin
Austin, Burr Dale
Dinsmore, Luther
Bahler, August
Emmons, Frank Fletcher
Billings, Elmore Myron, P. M.
Esperance, Blaise
Brower, William Charles
Estey, Edwin, P. M.
Browne, George Cecil
Evans, Mark
Cambis, Emanuel
Filer, Samuel John
Cereda, Dominico
Fitzgerald, Frederick Gerald
Chambers, Edwin Thomas
. Fox, William
Chambers, Isaac Thomas
Frame, Sidney
Chisholm, John R. Brown, P. M.
Fraser, John Robert
Christiansen, Thomas
Frasier, John, P. M.
Coleman, Warden Victor
Freeman, James Albert
Coleman, William Joel
Freeman, Otis Kimball, P. M.
Cooper, Luther Blake
Furbush, George Ernest
Cowley, William Ashline
Giubbini, Joseph Severino
Crooks, William Lowell
Gnauck, Gustav
Dalton, Alfred, Jr.
Gunnard, Frank
Dawson, Isaac

•

•

Harrison, Percy
Hart, David Marion
Hench, William Burton
Hertzburn, Herman
Johnson, Joseph Green
Johnston, Simon
Kerr, Rasmus Hansen
King, William
Kullman, Jacob
Latchem, Edward Caleb
Macdonald, James Edward
Martin, Albar 'lamtik
Martinsen, Neils
McArthur, Murdock
McKay, Alexander
McKay, George Arthur
McKay, Thomas, P. M.
McKay, Thomas Sumner
McKay, William Daniel
McKenna, John Paul
McKenzie, James Buchanan
McLean, John A.
Morton, Elijah
Mosher, Ernest Hiram
Muller, Konrad
Olsen, Oscar H.
O'Neill, Martin William
Parritt, Alvin Stone, P. M.
.Pate, Robert Buxton
Raffetto, Luigi
Regan, John

13

Roberts, William
Robinson, Alexander
Ruegii1, Godfrey
Rummelsburg, Adolph
Salz, Ansley Kullman, P. M.
Salz, Moses Kullman
Sanborn, Joseph Lewis
Schmidt, William John
Schneider, George
Seaman, Alexander Welby
Shattuck, Frank Bachelder
Sherburne, John Shepard
Smith, James Ambrose
Spenee, Robert W.
Stevens, Eugene Carrol
Stewart, Charles
Trautz, Otto George, P. M.
Troutwine, Phillip Jacob
Wagoner, John Ellis
Walker, Walter Frederick
Watson, Daniel Mitchell, P. M.
Weinmann, Frederick Phillip
Weymouth, Herbert Newton
White, George William
:White, Henry Kick
:White, Herbert Cornelius
:Wilkie, John Blues
Will, Andrew Jackson
Wimble, Charles Wilson
Witte, Henry
Wood, Jesse
-100

. TUOLUMNE LODGE, No. 8.
Sonora, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Robert Edward Rundell, Master,
·John Martin Wonderly, Sen: Deacon,
William Lyman Hood, Sen. Warden, William Edwin Burden; Jun. Deacon.
Thomas Henry Slator, Jun. Warden, William Glasson, Marshal,
Thos. Arthur Stiles Hender, Treas., Harry James Coffill, Steward,
Otto Julius Mouron, Secretary,
Joseph Milton Smullen, Steward,
Abraham Barlow, Tyler.

•

..

14

Allgewahr, George
Allgewahr, Louis, Jr.
Anthony, David Ritchard
Anthony, Edward Reese
Ball, Cary .
Barter, George
Barton, Eugene Hamilton
Bauman, Julius
Belli, Caesar Arthur
Billings, Samuel Moses
Black, William John
Blocklinger, Emil Arthur
Boesch, Louis
Booker, William Elijah
Bogio, Frederick
Bowers, Frederick Urban
Burden, Charles Henry
Burden, William Edwin
Ball, Farlon Ford
Baker,. Harry Walcott
Brunson, Horace Wilber
Benas, Solomon
Barlow, Abraham
Callinam, William
Callow, Charles Henry
Carmichael, Niel
Chute, Richard
Claytor, George Louis
Claytor, Charles Hiram
Coffill, Harry James
Colby, Alonzo
Collier, Mentor Carl
Cramer, Herman, Jr.
Donald, Ralph Selick
Dering, Cassius
Delgrove, Charles Martin
Dewitt, Wilmar
Eastman, William White
Elliott, Lewis Horatio
Eslick, Charles
Ellis, Eugene
Fosterling, Louis
Fletcher, Albert C.
Francis, Robert
Fraser, Charles Gladstone

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Gallut, Victor
Guerena, Louis Alexander
Gould, Elisha Tolman, P. "M.
Glasson, William, P. M.
Godfrey, Charles Homens
Goodwin, Frank Halsey
Hale, George Webb
Hampton, Crittenden, P. M
Hauman, Arthur Eugene H.
Hender, Samuel John
Hender, Thomas Arthur Stiles
Hicken, Ernest Edward
Hood, William Lyman
Hornung, John Henry
Hoskins, Joseph
Hubbard, Winslow, P. M.
Inch, Richard
Jenkins, William Henry
Jess, Willard Noble
Jones, Charles Vance
Jones, Ray Everett
Johnson, George W.
Kahl, Leonard
Kenney, William Augustus
Kent, Richard Wallope
Kirkwood, James, Sr.
Krause, Wilhelm
Keil, Edward, P. M.
Knudsen, Nils Ladefoged, P. M.
Leon, Samuel
Lewellyn, William
Langton, George Henry
Littlefield, John Franklin
Long, William Giles, P. M.
Lawson, Jesse Nils
Macpherson, John
Martin, William Kenneth
McKenzie, Alex. Stewart
McKenzie, Donald
McLaren, Duncan Allan
Morgan, George Phillip
Morrice, George
Morrow, George Washington
Mouron, Otto Julius
Muller, Eugene, P. M.

ROSTER.

•

•

•

Mitchell, Frederick William
Nash, John Frank
Newell, William Hamilton
Nickerson, Ralph Byron
Nicol, George Woodburn, P. M.
Oakes, William Con ·
0 'Brien, James Timothy
0 'Connell, John Henry
Ogden, Byron Augustus
Parsons, Edmond
Patterson, George John Hurd
Paulsen, Hans Christian
Peters, Joseph
Pownall, Joseph Benjamin
Preston, Howard Alvin
Preston, Charles W.
Rainville, Alfred Hercules
Rosaco, Leo Francis
Richey, Aylmar
Rundell, Robert Edward
Requa, James Edgar
Rooney, John Francis, P. M.
Ro bison, William Lynn
Sartorjs, Abraham
Sayre, DeZeng Laurence
Scanlan, James Louis
Scott, Archibald
Scott, William Richard
Sharrock, Everett, P. M .
Sharwood, William

15

Shine, John Henry
Slator, Thomas Henry
Smullen, Joseph Milton
Soulsby, Benjamin
Stanley, Horace Martin
Steimetz, David Henry
Sullenger, James Rufus
Street, Charles Edward
Street, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Thesse, Frank George
Thow, George
Tomkin, John Lee
Trittenbach, Albert
Turner, William Lincoln
Truckenmuller1 Charles
Toms, Richard
Vial, John
Ware, Arthur Frank
Weimer, William
Wellington, Henry
Wells, Thomas Washington
West, John Henry
Wise, John Frieman
Witney, John Lonn
Witt, Thomas Jefferson
Wonderly, John Martin
Woodhams, Henry Crane
West, Thomas Otho
York, James Madison
-149

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. g.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, Master,
Chester LeRoy Bowen, Sen. Deacon,
D
Charles Franklin Metteer, Sen. W. Harry Wm. WE>nzell J
E
·
'
, un. eacon,
dwm J. Goodpastor, Jun. Warden, . Charles Frederic Chase, Marshal,
Oscar Leonid_a s Meek, Treasurer,
Bernard John Brul, Steward,
Edward Babson Stanwood, Sec'ty, Jesse Milton Scott, Stewar(!
Edgar Taber, Tyler.

16

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Aaron, Charles Francis, P. M.
Gatgcns, John Frederick F.
Anthony, Charles Volney
Goodpastor, Edwin James
Androes, Elbridge Porter
Greely, J. Wellington
Baker, Robert James
Heilmann, Edward
Barnes, Cyrus Arson
Heilmann, Paul
Belcher, Edward Augustus
Higgins, John Henry
Berry, James McConnell
Himes, Charles Edward
Bingham, Atkins Clark, P. M.
Hockstadter, Simon
Boorman, Barnard Ross, P. M.
Hodgkins, Will Mayo
Bowen, Chester LeRoy
Holland, George
Bruce, Eugene Harrison
Hudson, Edward Henry
Brul, Bernard John
Hunter, William
Bury, John Charles Fremont
Irwin, Alexander Cameron, P. M .
.Buttelman, Frederick William, P. M.Jewett, Harold Woodward
Campbell, Oliver Otis Howard
Kelly, William Frederick
Chase, Arthur Willis
Kelser, Christian Christopher
Chase, Charles ·Frederick, P. M.
Koshy, Augustus Emil
Chase, Thoma!!
Krause, Frederick Francis
Cohn, Isaac Geballe
Learmont, William Clarence
Collier, George
Lewek, Solomon, P. M.
Cooley, Allen
Lott, Henry Charles, P. M.
Cooley, Edward Sedgwi<'k
MacLellan, Harvey Everett
Coombs, Joseph Elden
MacLellan, John George, P. M.
Cornforth, Harold
Marcuse, Meyer A., P. M.
Crane, Francis Benjamin
Martin, Allen Birch
Maseman, Charles Louis
Crane, Lemuel Trescott P. M.
Crook, Fred Austin
Mayer, Christopher ·
Day, Frederick Henry
Meek, Oscar Leonidas
Day, Richard
Meek, William Mayo
Davenport, Francis William
Metteer, Charles Franklin
Davenport, William Battles, P. M. Mitchell, Henry Keller
Deitz, George Washington
Nelson, Niles Victor
Dougall, Thomas
Nelson, William Harvey
Eckart, George Roberts
Nyrop, David Frank
Eckart, Marcus Alger
Parker, Theodore Roosevelt
Edeler, James Otto
Parks, Louis Herbert, P. M.
Ellis, William Turner
Peacock, William Flint, P. M.
Euler, Adam
Pengellay, Robert Wiley
Evans, Isaac Curtis
Phelan, James Henry
Fairclough, James
Pine, George Washington
Fetrow, Dll.vid Ernest
Pozzi, Romeo
Flentge, Max
Price, Charles John
Forbes, Edwin Alexander
Rideout, Norman Dunning, P. M.
Fordham, Free Delbert
Roberts, Frederic
Ganion, Joseph Ben
Roche, George Edward

ROSTER.
Bussell, Robert F.
Bussell, Wilmer W.
,
f!chneider, David Nathan
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Seawell, Floyd Selden
Sharp, Daniel Lawrence
Sieber, Henry Frederick, P. M.
Stall, Frank William
Stall, George Edward
Stanwood, Edward Babson
Stanwood, Richard Goss
Strain, William J.

17

Swift, Clarence Eugene
'l'apley, Joseph Franklin
Teenor, Carl H.
Toland, John
Weber, Henry Victor
Winlander, Edwiird
Wells, Roff Hague
Wenzell, Harry William
White, Espie Alexander
White, John Comyn
Wilcoxon, Lewis Boyd
-113

SAN JOSE LODGE, No. ro.

•

San Jose, Santa Clara county.
Stated Meetings, tirst MollDay in each month.
OFFICERS:
Curtis Marion Barker Master
Louis Victor Saph, Sen. Wa;den, Thomas Grey Watson, Sen. Deacon
Paul Sibley Williams, Jun. Deaco~
J h H
o n enry McGehee, Jun. Warden, William Russell, Marshall
,
Edward Ham Guppy Treasurer
'
M'lt
A
B
'
'
William
Edward
Blauer
Steward
1
on · oulware, Secretary
F
'
•
Francis Edwin Smith, Chaplai~,
rank George King, Steward,
Fred Sanford Coffin, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Addecott, James Edwin
Bane, John L.
Adelson, J ulius
Barber, Lawrence Evans
Alexander, Howard Augustus, P.
M.Barker, Curtis Marion
Alexander, William Gay
Barker, George Leon
Anderson, John Zuinguilus
Barnes, James
Anderson, Martin Gustave
Barnhisel, Lewis
Andt:rson, Philip
Barnum,
John Starr
Appleton, Morris
Barstow, Alfred
·Asay, Jacob Lambert P. M.
Barthel, Franklin Keifer
Ayer, Frank Milton '
Bath,
Edw11rd Robert
Bacon, Sanford Lord
Bawden, John Henry
Bailey, Charles Everett
Bay, Lewis Irwin
Bailey, Calvin Porter
Bean, George Albert
Bailey, Elton Ream, P. M.
Beasley, William Arthur
Bailey, Willard Chapin
Benson, Frank Henry
Ballow, John Quincy Adams
Bergman, Oscar Forrest

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

18
Donlan, William
Biggs, Marshall Alexander
Down, Robert Hodge
Blauer, William Edward
Dunham, George
Boring, Flavius. Josephus
Dynes William Henry
Borodori, Martm James
Eddy,' Alonzo Hencilly
Bothwell, Charles Allen
Essery, Maurice Robert William
Boulware, Milton Amos
Evans Reece Thompson
Brackett, Jethro Nat. Bruce
Fairc~ild, John Alarie
Braden, William Durand
Farrington, Melvin J.
Bray, George
Fassett, Thomas ~· K .
Breyfogle, William Osmond
Fee, George W ashmgton
Britton William
Field, Chapin Hall
Bromle~, Robert Van Vliet
Fikes, Henry J.
Bromley, Van Buren
Fisher, Henry Beach
Brown, Marshall Felder
Franzen, Andrew
Burnight, Thomas Starr
Frasse, Irvin Negus
Cameron, William
Fry, Hawley Ray
Camm, Charles William
Gassett, John Ea~ies
Cash, Albert B.
Gerichs, John Chnstean .
Castle, Isaac Newton
Gladewitz, Christean DaV1d
Chapman, Fred Lynwood
Graeba, Charles Edward
Charteer, Daniel Arthur
Granger, Frank Sylvester
Chase, Elmer Ellsworth
Gray, Simon Johnstone
Chase, James Albert
Greer' John Lawrence
Clayton, Willis Sherman
Gummer, Everett Edward
Clifton, Henry
Guppy, Edward Ham
Coffin, Fred Sanford
Hablutzel Charles Edward P. M.
Collins, Herman
Hafner, George Wellington
Conant Ernest Woodbury, p. M.
Hagerdon, Charles Luther
Conlis~, Charles William
Hale, John Edward
•
M
Cook, John Wesley
Hamilton, Alonzo Bobbitt'.
eo Martin Wilham
Casta Charles John
H arb eck , Th ·
Cride~, Jacob Wright, P. M.
Hardy, Thomas West
Christ, Squire Belden
Harms, Henry August.
Crossman, Walter Everett
Harms, Maynard Heim
Crothers, Charles Fair
Hawley, William George
Crothers, William Henry
Haydock, Clarenc~, P. M.
Crow, Richard
Heid, Louis Gotle1b.
Cureton; Edward
Henry, James Harnson
Dailey, Morris El~er
Hensill John Samuel
Davis, Thomas Hames
Henwo~d, Joseph Richard
Davy, John Will~am
Hipbum, Charles Thomas
Day, James Collms
Heple, Theo. Felix
Dennis, John Soulsby
·
Herman, Frank Adolph
Dixon, Frank Alexander
Heminger, Franklin Peter
Doerr Frederick
Hestwood, James Osman
Donahoo, Frank Leslie

I'.· .

Maynard, Charles Cyrus
Hewett, James
McCloskey, Thomas
Heckey, William Henry
McDonald, Archibald
Hill, Henrie Granville
McFaul, Charles Lincoln
Howell, Henry John
McGehee, John Henry
Hubback, Charles Edward
McGlanfl.in, George Vails
Huff, William Jackson
McKenzie, George Wilson
Hunt, John West
McKieman, Frank Charles Henry
Hyland, Michael Henry
McNary, William Thomas
Ickes, Daniel W.
Metcalf, Charles Otis
Jackson, George Washington
Moltzen, Hermann
James, Charles Hodge
Moore, Samuel Grant
Jamison, William Thomas
January, William Alexander, P. M. Muirson, George Albert
Jarman, Albert Hutchinson, P. M. Nash, Charles Henry
Nickerson, Franklin Lewis
Jarman, John Plaskett, P. M.
North, David Jordan
Jenkines, William Keaster
0 'Brien, Maurice
Johnstone, Frederick Eugene
Olinder, Carl Ferdenand
Jones, Albert Lincoln
Orvis, William Shakespear
Jones, Cyrus
Otter, Hugo Washington
Kalfus, Joseph Leland
Ownley, Thomas Powell
Kautlehner, Christian George P.
Page, George William
Key, John Powel
Park, Clement Th.eo.
King, Frank Giorza
Patton, Joseph Richard
Kock, Adolph Jacob
Pawley, Albert Leslie
Kooser, Roley Sherman
Pearse, Warren Milton
Krause, Frederick William
Pellier, Entrope Joseph L.
Krause, William Henry
Pender, David Rattray
Lanyon, Byron
Pennoyer, Chester Hicks
Lathwesen, Louis John
Percy, Calvin Wheeler
LeBreck, Frank
Pfan, Louis John
Leach, William
Poore, James Robert
Ledyaru, Francis King
Pozzo, Francisco
Ledyard, Henry Horatio
Priest, Richard Turner
Leigh, Hugh Alexander
Proctor, Calderon Weld,
Lenzen, Theodore William
Radford, Joseph D.
Lewis, Joseph R.
Rainey, Joseph Wesley
Lion, Lazar
Reed, · Elliott
Lifsett, Archie
Reed, Warren DeWitt
Levingston, William
Reynolds, Clifton Greene
Lowe, Ralph, P. M.
Rhoads, Lewis William
Lowe, Sam Butterworth
Rice, Charles Warren
Mann, Charles William•
Rich, Samuel Herman
Marvin, Frank Freeman
Richards, Albert
Masson, Paul
Mathew, Allan Oscar
Richmond, Edmund Nutting
May, George Baldazar
Richmond, George

19

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

20
Richmond, George Andrew
Renaldo, David
Roberts, Albert Forre~t
Robins, Charles Edwm
Rowley, Albanus. Bellger
Ruble, Robert Simon
Rucker, Samuel Newton
Russ, Arthur Charles
Russell, William, P. M.
Sanderson, Edward Wavell
Saph, Louis Victor
Schallenberger, Moses
Schemmel, Henry Leonhard
Schultz, Charles Hieronymus
Schuman, Hel\l'Y
Sexton, William
Sheaff, Charles Raymond
Shearer, Paul Morphy .
Shaup, Edward Glendenmg
Simpson, William
Skinner, Edwin Hu~e
Smith, Francis Edwm
Smith, Harrison Pryor
Snyder, Charles Lafayette
Southworth, Malek Adhel
S p encer ' Hume Alexander
.
S encer Hume Francie
p
'
.
Squire, Paul Edwm
Sterne, Harry Raymond
Stythe, Arthur John

Summers, Robert O~ell
Sutton, Alfred Martin
Sweigert, George Adam
Taylor, William Stewart
Thompson, Samuel
Thompson, Samuel Halleck
M
Tompkins, Samuel George, P.
.
Topham, Edward
Topham Frank Henry
Townse~d, Arthur Chisholm
Tuttle, Hiram Daniel
Valpey, Calvin
.
Wagener, Samuel Hopkins
Watson Thomas Grey
Weber' 'Frank Ferguson
Weller Henry Olp, P. M.
Whitt~n, Albert King, P. M.
Wight, David
Wilcox, Edwin Augustus
Wilcox Wilbur Justus, P. M.
Wilder: Alphonse Eli
Willi, John
Williams, Edwin Henry
Williams, Paul Sebley
.
:Waldenberg, Russell Lewis
:Woo.ls Robert Clay
'woste; Clarence Marshall
Wretm~n, Niles Emil
Wyatt, James Bellman

YOUNT LODGE, No.

-275

12.

Napa, Napa County.
or next preceding Full Moon.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of
OFFICERS:
R 'th Sen Deacon .
Wm Thompson oIDl '
Rob.ert Smyth Holden, Jun. Deacon,
Harvey Bylaski Goodman, M arshal '
James Mason, Junior WaTilen,
Henry John Hoernle, Steward,
Edward Derrell Beard, Treasurer,
J
s Howard Morgan, Steward,
Secretary
ame
Isaac George H erron,
He' nry Davie, Tyler.
Morrow

ester,
Elmer Leonard Bickford, M
Charles Etl. Trower, S en Warden,

MEMBERS:
Haas, David Leopold
Amstutz, Henry I,ouis
Harker, Charles Sumner
Bachman, Llewellyn Thomas
Hatch, Frederick Winslow
Bailey, William Augustin
Beard, Edward Derrel
Hawkes, John
Beard, James Edgar
Henry, William Putnam
Beard, Derrel Leonard
Herron, Isaac George
Bickford, Elmer Leonard
Hoernle, Henry John
Bliss, Charles Humphrey
Hoffman, Oliver
Blunk, Arthur Scott
Holden, Robert Smyth, P. M.
Bonsall, Edward, P. M.
Horstmeyer, Henry Conrad
Bradford, William, P. M.
Hottel, Eli Washington
Bush, Franklin William
Howell, Joseph
Butler, Ira Mortimer
Howland, John Smith
Butler, Ralph Morris
Hull, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Butters, Angus
Hunter, William
Cain, John Al~ander
Jaekle, Carl John
Casassa, Joseph
Johnson, Carl Boothe
Chalmers, John Howard
Johnston, Finis Ewing, P. M.
Chapman, William Levi
Johnston, Harry Lewis, P. M.
Christen, Jean Louis
Jordan, Fred Murray
Clark, Ray Dennison
King, Percival Simpson, P. M.
Clifford, George Boardman
Klose, Berthold Edwill
Klose, Walter William
Corlett, William Henry
Corlett, Robert
Knudsen, Andrew
Davis, Morrow Henry
Kyser, Daniel Sterling, P. M.
DeBonis, Guiseppi
Lindow, William James
Liver, Richard
Dennis, John
Derry, Thomas
Lord, George Washington
Dunlap, David Anderson, P. M.
Maccuaig, Alex. Malcolm . P. M.
Edlunds, Gustaf Alfred
Marble, N11lson, P. M.
Marois, Theodore Miximillian
Evans, Louis John
Finnell, Williamson
Mason, James
Maxwell, Charles Alexander
Flagler, Albert Daniel
Fossum, Otto Bergerson
Merwin• Louis Tunis
Furber, William Giddings
Metzner, Robert Carl
Gardner, Alden Monroe
Morgan, J ai:nes Howard
Gardner, James Buchannon
Murry, Henry Wilson
Garwood, Charles Marvin
McClelland, Joseph Alexander
Germain, William Eugene
McCollum, William James
Gilson, Gilson Albert
McCue, James Edward
Goodman, Harvey Pulaski
McManus, Samuel
Graham, William
Newman, James Bartholomew
Gregory, Charles McCloon
Oliver, Thomas
Grigsby Alphonse De Lafayette
Parker, John Watson
Grossman, Adolph Herman
Parker, Arthur Campbell

21

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

22
Pederson, John Adolph
Pinkham, George Grafton
Pond, Frank Alfred
Powers, Philo Fitch
Ramsey, Robert Randolph
Raymond, Earl Hilsinger, P. M.
Robinson, Edward Oscar
Rohrer, John Charles
Ross, Cecil Forbes
Rumsey, William Woodgate
Shepard, Edward Ralph
Shepard, Samuel Philo
Shurtleff, Benjamin
Shwarz, David
Shwarz, William
Smith, Walthall Ridgway
Smith, William Thompson
Stannard, John Charles

Stevens, James Baunty, P. G. M.
Stewart, Robert
Stice Tyre Harrison
Stice, William Wirt
Strohl, George Washington
Swift, John Jackson
Taylor, Robiirt Francis
Trower, Charles .Edward
Trubody, William Alexander
Voigt, William
Webster, Thomas Eugene
Whitton, Herbert Blakeslee
Wichells, Johann Diedrich
Wilkins, Benjamin Sidney
Williams, Fred Waldo, P. M.
Young, Guy Wallace
Zollner, John Frederick

-125

•
NEV ADA LODGE, No. 13.
Nevada City, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, Second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry Augustus Stenger, Master,
William Giffin, Senior Deacon,
Eugene B•:1..d Meservey, Sen Ward., Lloyd w . .Tennings, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Reary Waters, Jun. Ward., William Henry Martin, Marshal,
John Thomas Morgan, Treasurer,
John Renry Richards, Steward,
Wm. Edm'..lnd Meservey, Secretary, ...........•.... . ..... , Steward.
C. C. Weisenburger, Chaplain,
.Antonio Tam, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brackett, Arthur Grover·
Allen, William Grant
Arbogast, Frederick Luther, P. M. Brand, Herman William
Brown, Walter S.
Armstrong, Leroy Elwood
. Carman, William Kelly
Ashton, David
Casper, Kaskil
Ashbum, Hans Arent
Chapman, Chester Warren, P. M.
Barruzza, Emile
Coan, Thomas Nicholas
Becker, John N.
Conley, Charles Henry
Bennetts, Richard John

Cohn, Casper
Cohn, Ephraim
Craig, Michael Francis
Cross, Charles Wesley
Curnow, John Arthur
Curnow, Robert
Davies, Thomas
Delbridge, Abel Nicholas
Douglas, N orval
Drunzer, Peter
Eagye, Elzeva
Eddie, Hamilton
Eddy, Charles Henry
Eddy, Samuel Jones
Edwards, Edward Samuel
Ennis, Franklin, P. M.
Englebright, William F.
Evans, .John
.Faull, George Henry
Fleming, Joseph Davenport
Floyd, William
Folene, Antone
Ford, Thomas Savory
Friedman, Charles L .
Gaylord, Ralph Wright
Giffin, William
Giles, Timothy
Gillespie, Robert
Goodwin, Jeremiah Samuel
Gray, George Alfred
Gray, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Hale, Horace
Hall, Benjamin
Hawley, Thomas Porter, P . M.
Hill, Charles Wilson
Hitchings,· John Mathew
Holland, Jacob Lafayette
Holmes, William
Hoskins, Henry Rablin
Hughes, Thomas T.
Irwin, Samuel Berryhill
Ivey, John Reed
Jacqumar, Robert
Jennings, Lloyd W.
Kendrick, Levi, Jackson
Kistle, William

Kitts, Herbert Stewart
Lamb, Francis Arthur
Langman, John, P . M.
Lene, James Henry
Lear, Samuel B est
Legg, George Arthur
Lord, Atherton Simeon, P. M.
Mallen, Christopher Henry
Marsh, Daniel
Marsh, Martin Luther
Marsh, Sherman Ward
Martin, Alfred
Martin, John James
. Martin, William Henry
Medlin, Fred William
Meservey, Eugene Bond
Meservey, William Edmund, P. M;
Moore, Edward Anslem
Morgan, Eddy John
Morgan, David Eddy, P. M.
Morgan, John Thomas, P. M.
Morrison, Angus Rae
Muir, David Dalrymple
Muller, Carl Louis, P. M.
McCall, John Thomas
McDonald, Alonzo Alvin
McDonald, 'Vallace
McElvey, Charles
Nivens, Archibald
Ogden, George William
Osburn, Thomas Israel
Pare, Camille Alfred
Parini, Daniel
,. Parsons, Walter Emmons
Pascoe, Emanuel
Pellamounter, Thomas
Pioletti, John Baptiste
Plumer, Richard
Power, Erastus Barnum
Preston, Myers Albert
Randolph, William Cooper, P. M.
Reynolds, William John
Richards, David
Richards, Gluyas James
Richards, John Henry
Richards, William Gilbert, P. M.

23

ROSTER.

24

Stenger, Joseph Floyd, P. M.
Sukeforth, Elisha Gumey
Tam, Antonio
Tellam, Frederick
Treadwell, James Buchanan
Tremaine, Richard John
Tremaine, Robert Bennett
Turner, Robert Haviland
Tyler, George Alton
Veal, William Henry
Vinton, Walter Dougll\,S, P. M.
Vischer, Herbert Peter
Water"s, Thomas Henry
Weisenburger, Christian C., P. M.
White, Francis
White, James C.
White, Joseph Newton
Wilburn, Miles Richard
Williams, Richard
-147

Richardson, Robert
Roberts, Mark L.
Roberts, Stephen Henry
Robinson, George Edward
Rolfe, Inthis Jerome, P. M.
Rolfe, William Jasper
Rosewall, James Henry
Rowe, William
Sandus, Lawrence Charles
Scarfe, George
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Searles, Fred
Searls, Niles, P. M.
Shaw, George Crawford
Biddies, Milen Buchard
Snell, Albert Knapp
Snell, Nicholas
Smith, Hal. Othro
Stampher, Joseph P.
Stenger, Henry Augustus

ROSTER.
Goodman, Willis Catlet, P. M.
Oottenberg. H. Williams, P. M.
Harris, Granville Swift
Hart, Ezra Blair
Hartin, Henry
Hartman, Frank Benjamin
Hill, Robert Potter, P. M.
Hocker, William Ogden
Hotz, Gustave Henry
Humphreys, James Hughes
Johannsen, Edward Henry
Johannsen, Ludwig Matthias
Keechler, Joseph
Landgrebe, William Edward
Landis, William Alexander
Lewis, Samuel Birdslee
Lewis, Thomas Archibald
VcGimsey, Thomas Jefferson
Montgomen, DeWitt
Moore, Oliver Cromwell
'Murphy, ;Ralph Everett
Nolan, Walter Charles
Perkins, Ralph Everett
Pinder, Benjamin Franklin

25

Poppe, Charles Julius
Poppe, Robert Albion, P. M.
Potter, Charles Reid
Potter, Joseph Harvey, P. M .
Quien, Albert Brebner
Rich; George David
Ringstrom. d1gurd Adolf
Rohrer, John Celestine
Schoeken, Solomon
Spencer, George
Still, William
Stofen, Peter Nicolas
Suttenfield, William Thomas
Tate, James Franklin
Thompson, Peter Henry
Thomson, Allen Milo
Van Amringe, David Ralph
Wagner, Otto Rudolph
Wagnon, John Davis
Weaver, Albert William, P. M.
Weaver, Frank
Werner, William August
Wilde, Reinhardt Frederick

-59

TEMPLE LODGE, No. i4.
Sonoma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon·.
OFFICERS:
Samuel B Lewis, Sen. Deacon, ·
Henry Fr'l<l. Bates, Jun. Deacon,
Montgomery Akers, Marshal,
William August Werner, Steward,
Benjamin Franklin Pinder, Steward,
Willis C. Goodman, Tyler.

Joseph Harvey Potter, Master,
Hartley Wl'I.. Gottenberg, Sen. W.,
Wm. Frede!jck Clewe, Jun, Ward.,
Gustave, Henry Holtz, Treasurer, ·
David R. Van Amringer, Secretary,
Thomas J. McGimsey, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Burris, J ease, P. M.
Adler, Adam Winkle
Clewe, William Frederick
Akers, Montgomery Paxton
Duhring, Frederick Thomas
Appleton, William Greenleaf
Enke, Albert Adolphus
Arthur, Charles, P. M.
Gaige, Alhrrt Ebenezer
Baer, Bernard
Goethe, William Edward
Bates, Henry Frederick

EUREKA LODGE, No. 16.
Auburn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Mon~ay of or next prereding Full M•)On.
OFFICERS:
Charles Nelson Shane, Master,
Arthur Spencer Fleming, Sen. Deac.,
••.................................Senior Warrlen, Everett Allen Francis, Jun. Deacon,
Chas. Oscar Hamilton, Jun. Ward., Alex. Kelley Robinson, Marshal,
David W. Lubeck, Treasurer,
William James McCracken, Steward,
Wm. Branson Lardner, Secretary, George Pendleton Collins, Steward,
Michael David Lininger, Chaplain, William James Prewett, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, George E.
Anderson, Albert Wallace
Anderson, William Craig

Boggs, John Craig
Barter, William
Bisbee, John Gould, P. M.

ROSTER.

26
Brown, Edward Doyle
Bilkey, Charles Albert
Brye, Frederick Emil
Baxter, Joseph Quincey
Curtis, Henry Crittenden, P. M.
Crowell, William Albert, P. M.
Collins, George Pendleton
Chamberlain, David Jerome
Disque, Henry, P. M.
Deetkin, Frederick Charles
Fulweiler, John Mathias, P. M.
Fulton, Jonathan, P. M.
Futhey, Robert Scott
Fran.c is, Joseph Marie
Fitzmaurice, William Robert
Fleming, Arthur Spencer
Francis, Everett Allen
Fitch, Frederick Robert
Ekberg, Peter George
Green, Arthur Reginald
Glover, Alfred Kingsley
Hellwig, Charles John, P. M.
Hobson, John Beaugardi
Hofeld, Edward
Hamilton, Charles Oscar
Koford, James Mossin
Lubeck, David Waldemer
Lininger, Michael David, P. M.
Lardner, William Branson

Locher, Albert Joseph
Martin, Peter Daniel
Mccann, William John
May, William Isaac
McCracken, William James
Neff, Jacob Hart, P. M.
Prewett, James E.
Quire, Joseph Spencer
Rooney, Robert Fleming, P. M.
Robinson, Alexander Kelley
Rice, James Edward
Richter, Christian Frederick
Snowden, Edward Christopher
Smith, John Lawrence
Safford, John Coleman
Smith, Alfred Lovell
Smith, Preston, Washington, P. M.
Stevens, Frederick Solan
Shane, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Shepard, Will Abel
Thomas, George
Tittle, Horatio Seymore
Tabor, Ashley Raymond
'l'reverton, James
Taylor, Junius Clifton
White, John Miles
Woodard, John Carlton
Wiley, Morris Brickback
Wood, William Thomas
-65

LA PARFAITE UNION LODGE, No. 17.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Pierre Pommier, Senior Deacon,
Thomas Sehabiaque, Master,
Simon Levy, Junior Deacon,
Henry Mottet, Senior Warden,
Antione Leon Auradou, Jun. Ward., Orlando Bozio, Marshal,
Joseph Nevraumont, Steward,
Adolph Hugenin, Treasurer,
Francois Terramorse, Steward,
Paul de St. Jullien, Secretary,
Anatole Lobe, Tyler.
Auguste Goustiaux, Chaplain,

ROSTER.

'

....

MEMBERS:
Ames, Brewster Frost
Godeau, Jules S.
Artigues, Joseph Emile, P. M.
Goldaracena, Orel Martin, P. M.
Astorg, Alphonse
Goldsmith, Gaston
Aubin, Auguste Henri
Goustiaux, Auguste
Auradore, Antoine Leon
Grandjean, Charles
Aurauon, Jules
Grothwell, Leonce
Babin, Demas Colin
Grothwell, Victor
Battistessa, Guisseppe
Guyot, Emile Desire A.
Beleney, Georges
Hallgarten, Benoit
Bellegarde, Pascal
Hatt, Edward Gustavus
Bellocq, Pierre
Huguenin, Adolph, P. M.
Bergerat, Louis
Huguenin, Henry
Bergez, Jean
Lacaze, Louis
Bertin, Leonce Charles
Lame, Louis
Berton, George Abel
Lacroix, Lucien
Blanquie, Edward
Larque, Albert
Blum, Jacques
Lenormand, Leon
Blum, Leon
Letroader, Julien
Boisson, Francis
Levy, Nathan
Bollack, Alphonse
Levy, Simon
Bouteiller, Louis Auguste
Levy, Daniel, P. M.
Bozio, ()rlando
Lille, Charles
Castenier; Femand
Lipman, Isidore
Chaigneau, Alfred
Lobe, Anatole
Champion, Joseph
Long, Claude
Clavere, Jean Pierre
Loupy, Jean
Clerfayt, Jules
Loupy, Noel Paul
Coney, Alexander Kaufman, P . M. Mailhebuan, Evariste C.
Coppa, Guiseppe
Marchebout, Victor
Dazet, Jean Baptiste
Marquis, Canac Ferdinand
Decourtieux, Amand Xavier
Masson, Francois Pierr~, P. M.
Dehay, Emile
Meyer, Emmanuel, P. M.
Delagnes, Benjamin
Monaco, Jean Baptiste
Diebold, Michel E., P. M.
Mooser, Charles E .
Drayeur, Auguste Constant
Mottet, Henry
Dupas, Jean Marie, P. M.
Neuburger, Gustave
Eisenberg, Adolphe
Nevraumont, Ernest
Eisner, Daniel
Nevraumont, Joseph
Escude, Gabriel
Newmark, Maurice
Faure, Emile
Ortion, Auguste Joseph Virtor
Franck, Isidore
Pagnuelo, Ernest
Frederick, Marcus White
Palacin, Joseph
Gehret, Alfred
Pestelacci, Tobias
Glees, Aloia
Pfund, Gebhard
Godchaux, Edmond
Pommier, Pierre

27

ROSTER.

28

Sgier, Jean Joseph
Soulages, Jules
St. Denis de Jules
St. Jullien de Paul
Straus, Gaston
Terramorse, Francois
Treyer, Theophile
Van Ander, Beck Charles
Vautier, Fernand
Vergnes, Frederic
Vermeil, Jean Louis
V ellegia, Leopold
Wagner, Edward Lafayette
Weill, Raphael
Weill, Sylvain
Willard, Jules
Willard, Leon
Wilhelm, Frederique
-126

Pottet. Alphonse
Raas, Emma!luel, P. M.
Redinger, MichPl
Reiss, Bernard
Reiss, Emile
Revert, Alphonse
J!i ma~~.i, Char~f!.

Robert, Cyprien Pierre
Roeckel, Joseph Guillaume
Roncovieri, Alfred Louis
Roos, Adolphe
Roos, Adolphe
Roumiguiere, Alphonse
Rousseau, Charles M.
Sehabiague, Armand
Sehabiague, Thomas, P . M .
Seibel, Frederique
Serveau, Emile

ROSTER.
Bartling, Valentine
Bartling, Valentine, Jr.
Bough, Joseph Zephaniah
Hunnicut, Ezra
Helmet, Victor Gustaf
Iglick, Samuel
Kieffer, Adam
Meyer, Henry Herman, P. M .
Morse, Horace Armsby
Morse, George Barrows
Pauley, Benjamin, P. M.
Quigley, Henry Edwin
Redding, William Irvine, P. M.

29

Stewart, Samuel Curtis
Spaulding, Henry
Shafer, Sheldon Woodruff
Smith, Stanley Andrew, P . M.
Shafer, John Booth
Shafer, Wiliam Henry
Thomas, Henry
Weil, John Joseph
Wene, Francis Rumrill, P. M.
Winrod, Thomas Eli
Woessner, John
Young, George
-41

SAN JOAQUIN LODGE, No. 19.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.
Downieville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Irvin Redding, Master,
Wm. Henry Shafer, Senior Warden,
Thomas Eli Winrod, Junior Warden,
Henry Herman Meyer, Treasurer,
Henry Edwin Quigley, Secretary.
MEMBERS:
Casserly, William Wickham
Alexander, James Ramsey
Denmire, Aden
Burman, John, P. M.
Davy, Robert 13allard
Barrett, John Miles
Ellis, Charles Zenas
Bettinger, Carl Francis
· Ford, Tirey Lafayette
Crooks, James Brown, P. M.
Forbes, Robert, P. M.
Case, Elipahlet Lewis, P. M.
Galligan, Barney
Corbett, David
Grant, Allan H.
Costa, John

OFFICERS:
Fred J. McKain, Master,
H . Mathias Orschler, Sen. Deacon,
J. Augustus Stites, Sen. Warden,
Henry Backes, Jun. Deacon,
Ralph Eugene Wilcon, Jun. Ward., Frank Dickinson, Marshal,
F. Shackelford Boggs, Treasurer,
C. Monroe Bottomley, Steward,
Isaac H. Robinson, Secretary,
Wilford Harmon Burgess, St eward,
Reuben Henry Sink, Chaplain,
John Rodney Gleeson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, William Willis
Boggs, F rank Shackelford
Allen, Wheeler
Bottomley, Charles Monroe
Arndt, Michael S.
Bradford, Clark Campbell
Arnold, Francis Clarence
Bradford, George Hasock
Backes, Henry
Briscoe, Henry Ferguson
Baker, Walter
Broaddus, William Samuel
Balta George
Brown, George Albert, Jr.
Bargmann, Hermann Conrad, P. M. Buchanan, Louis Alexander
Barnett, Henry Addison
Burgess,.Wilford Harmon
Beach, Myron Nelson
Caine, John
Beringer, Benjamin Franklin
Campbell, Joy Douglas
Black, George Henry
Carrick, William Edward
Boalt, Thomas Warren
Cavis, Joseph William, P. M

30

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

Gerdes, Herman Edward
Chalmers, Alexander, P. M.
Gerdes, Robert Anton
Chalmers, Peter John
Gleeson, John Rodney
Chapman, Fred Willis
Godbold, John Henry
Chase, Aquilla Daniel
Goode, Benjamin Franklin
Chase, George Walker
Chesnutwood, William Hartzell
Goodell, George
Goodrum, Eugene F.
Chichester, .Tames Harvey
Claiborne, Gilbert Burnett, P. G. M. Goodrum, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Clark, Fred Pope
Grider, John Carson
Gross, Edward Emil
Clark, Harry Isaac
Clark, John Albert
Groves, Frederick William C.
Coates, .Tames York
Groves, Robert Henry
Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Hadcock, David
Cowper-Thwaite, Edward
Hammond, Howard
Cramer, Edward Ernest
Hammond, Robert Ray
Culver, Gilbert Caleb
Harrington, John Joseph
Danner, Lewellyn Alexander
Hatch, Charles Edward
Darby, Frank Erwin, P. M.
Haven, Henry
Davidson, Adelbert Williams, P. M. Henderson, Robert William
Davies, William Abraham, P. G. M. Henery, Samuel
Davis, Gilbert Garrie
Highland, .Tames Robert
Davis, Sylvester Byron
Hubbard, Ferdinand Bradley
Deardorff, Edward Samuel
Inglis, Robert
DeGuire, George Washington
.Ta.ckson, Charles Moses, P. M.
DeVries, William Garland
.Tohnson, William Russell
Dickinson, Clarence Leroy
.Tones, Charles .Tudithan
Dickinson, Everett Clarence
Keniston, Charles Morrill, P. M. Dickinson, Frank
Kennedy, Franklin Hayes
Dickinson, George Henry
Kincaid, Fred Llewellyn
Doran, Richard Emmet
Kinnear, .Tames Williard
Draper, Albert Nelson
Kirby, William Don
Dunbar, Sylvanus Gilman S., P. M. Kitchener, Samuel Amery
Earle, Richard Thomas, P. M.
Klench, Daniel Lewis
Eldridge, Edward Duane
Kroeckel, George
Elgan, Oliver Dayton
Kroyer, John Minor
Ewing, John Worthington Dorsey Laggas, John
Farnsworth, Clovis Alonzo
Langdon, Samuel Walter Ross
Finnell, Michael, P. M.
Lemmon, John Le Grand
Frankenheimer, Louis Henry_
Leonard, Cornelius
Fraser, Philip Barry
Levinsky, ~lbert Leonard
Fredericks, Frank Henry
Lewis, John Thomas
Fuller, Harry Reuben
Little, Samuel Giles
Fussell, George
Littlehale, Sargent Smith, P. M.
Gaines, Francis Albert
Lorenz, William Henry
Garrison, Noel Hunt
Luhr, William Frederick August
Garwood, John
Lund, Andrew John

Lynch, Willis
Ruggles, John Everett
Lynn, .Tames William
Schlichtman, Claus, Jr.
Mallett, Albert
Scofield, Francis Herbert
Maschek, Charles Herman
Scullen, John Fish
Matteson, John Joshua
Shelford, Charles Vincent
Maxey, John D.
Simpson, William McPayne
McCulloch, Alexander Andrew
Sink, Reuben Henry, P. M.
McKain, Fred .T.
Small:field, Albert Augustus
McLaren, John Cameron
Smith, Arthur David
McLaren, William Duncan
Smith, Frank Hartford p M
McLeod, .Tohn H .
Smith, George Russell ' · ·
Meinecke, Frederick
Smith,
.Tames Webb
Meyer, Fred Olin
Smith, Richard Russell
M~ler, Charles Warren, P. M.
Snell, George Hinman
.Miller, Frank B., P. M.
Sperry, George Barker
Moore, George Franklin
Spurrier, Sherman Merriam
Moore, John Williams
Stewart, .Tames Alpheus
.Moore, Royal T.
Stites, Joseph Augustus
More, Albert Wallace
Stocker, Walter Wrightman
.Morrison, Edwin Crane
S~one, William Henry
.Munger, Lucius Augustus
Stroup, Randolph Clinton
Needham, Harry Burr
Sutherland, George Wesley
Newell, .Tames Henry
Swain, John Anderson
Newell, Sidney, P. M.
Tatterson, George Watson
Oldham, Walter Thomas
Tatterson, Arthur Potter
Ors1\hler, Henry Mathias
Taylor, Charles Albert
Owen, Charles Edward
Thomas, William Bacon •
Owings, George Spencer
Thompson, Thomas Richard
Parkinson, Oscar Bronson
Thresher, Minord Sprague p M
Pattarga, .Tames
Tillinghast, Joseph Henry' · ·
Payne, David Rolland
Vance, Charles Albert
Perry, John Marion
Viebrock, Francis .Tohn
Petzinger, Casper Rudolf
Wall,
Wilber C.
Phelps, .Toseph Larose
Wallace,
Benjamin Carpenter
Plummer, Brudnell Edward
Westbay,
William Wesley
Pollard, Fred Albert, P. M.
White, Kellogg Albert
Pulen, Edward John
Wilcox, ll.alph Eugene
Pntnam, George Clinton
Williams, Evan
Quail, Frank Eugene _
Wood, Charles
Qnisenberry, Robert Lee
Wood, William Walter
Richards, William Henry
Woods, Samuel Moseley, P. M.
Riddell, John Everett
Woods, Ezekiel William S.
Robinson, Iaaac Henry, P. M.
Wyman, Bernice A.
Roche, Peter John
Yost, J<'rederick .Tohn
Ruggles, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Young, Daniel McLeod
-208

31

32

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

WASHINGTON LODGE, No.

20.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings_, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Herman Theodore Silvius, Master, Fred. Wilhelm Grider, Sen. Deacon,
Ellsworth, Fred Duden, Sen. Ward., Robertson T. McKissick7Jun. Deac.,
Thos. Henry Christianson, Jun W., George Bock, Marshal,
James Scott, Steward,
Charles Sumner King, Treasurer,
Harry Richard Kiesseg, Steward,
John Scott, Secretary,
Elias Rath, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Gruhler, Jacob
Adams, Charles Edward
Greer, Erskine
Arnold, Henry Waldeck
Gerber, William Emil, P. M.
Ashworth, Edward Fletcher
. Gerber, Edwin Henry
Avery, Ira
Grider, Frederick Wilhelm
Bates, Alfred
Grau, Herman William H.
Block, Maurice
Hall, Thomas Bertram
Bockrath, Herman Henry
Hamilton, William Brown
Booth, Albert Porch
Heilbron, Adolph
~
Boyd, Joseph Charles
Hendricks, William Chalmers
Bock, George, P. M.
Hickman, Frank
Brown, Alfred James
Hoag, William Moffatt
Breuner, Louis Frederick
Hurley, John
Breuner, John
Reisen, Charles, Jr., P. M.
Busch, John
Herr, George Benjamin
Butler, Henry Mills, P. M.
Johnston, James Waverly
Burgess, George Washington
Johnson, Hiram Warren
Cohn, Aloysius Sylvester
Johnson, Presley Beauregard, P. ~·
Conran, Ira Milton
Johnson, Phillip, P. M.
Crouch, Eugene Ackley
Johnson, Frank Taylor, P. M.
Christianson, Thomas. Henry
Kiesel, Frederick William, P M.
Cochrane, William, P. M.
Kestler, Frederick Henry
Dolan, John Henry, P. M.
Klune, John Bernard
Dunbar, Marcus William
Kolliker, Frederick
Duden, Ellsworth Frederick
King, Charles Sumner
Ebert, George Ernest, P. M.
Kiessig, Harry Richard
Edinger, Frank Austin
Keene, Albert Edward
Ellis, David Gregory
Luce, John Couchman
Folger, Albert Gilbert
Lund, John Peter
Gay, Remus Upton, P. M.
Lykens, Preston Lodwick, P. M.
Gardner, Charles Francis
Madden, Jerome
Gillis, Dugald Hall
McKee, Edwin Henry
Giusberg, Jacob

Menken, Peter Heinrich
Miller, John Henry
McMullin, Irving H.
Maslin, Prentiss
McKinnon, John Jenkins, P. M.
McKissick, Harrison Topp
Nathan, Henry Michael
Oschner, John
Potter, William Alfred, P. M.
Peart, Edmund Francheville
Peltier, George Wilfred
Pfund, Edward Franklin
Phillips, Charles A very
Putnam, George Prescott
Pipher, Joseph Elmer
Prideau, Edwin
Rath, Elias
Royster, William Alexander

Sayre, William Abner, P. M.
Schwilk, Charles Fred'!lrick
Smith, Sterling Wallace
Stillwell, Arthur Marriott
Silvius, Herman Theodore
Snook, John Peter
Scott, John
Scott, James
Tibbetts, George Rush
Wheat, James Montford
W achhorst, Eugene Stuart
Watts, Pliny Rand
Willey, William Henry Harrison
Wood, Henry Clay
Wright, Charles Edward
West, l!'rederick William
Yardley, Herbert Edward
Young, John Nelles
-100

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 2r.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Robert Hair, Master,
Love Moller Vetlesen, S. D.,
Frank E . Thompson, Sen. Warden, Henry Albert Taylor, J. D.,
Wm. Thomas Rawlins, Jun. Warden, Herbert Joseph Grindeli, Marshal,
Robert Catton, Treasurer,
Willis Thomas Pope, Stewar<l,
Kenneth Robert Gordon Wallace, Sec.Harry Scott Gray, Steward,
Alexander Mackintosh, Chaplain,
Joshua Daniel Tucker, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ahrens, August
Alt;lxander, William Douglas
Allerton, Charles Henry
Alvarez, Louis Fernandez
Arleigh, Augustus :Sickel
Ashley, William George
Austin; Herbert Clark
Barnes, Albert

•

Bachelor, Job
Battelle, Harry Thomas
Beckley, George Charles
Bindt, Frederick Martyn
Bond, Alfred Denmon
Bonner, George
Boyd, James Harbottle
Boyd, William Wright

33

34

ROSTER.

Braddick, Oscar Bambfield
Bretteville, Anton Christopher E.
Bromley, Walter Hall ·
Brown, Andrew, P. M.
Brown, Edward Cook
Brown, George Watson
Burniston, Harry James
Campbell, Charles Jerome
Campbell, Herbert Moody
Campbell, John Thomas
Campbell, Marston
Catton, Robert
Clair, Emille
Clark, William Augustus
Cleghorn, Archibald Scott
Coffey, Asa Boyd
Conant, Elmer Ellsworth
Cook, Frank Beach
Cook, George Marshal
Cooley, Alfred Ernest
Cottrell, Charles Boutelle
Cooper, Charles Bryant
Counter, Moses Ruby
Coyne, Arthur
Crabbe, Clarence Linden
Craelius, John Frederick
Craig, John Henry
Crozier, Charles
Cummings, James Henry, Jr.
Cunha, Emanuel Silveria
Curtis, George Beeston
Dart, Elbert Ripley
Davidson, Robert Morton
Deering, Augustus
Derby, Albert Jones, P. M.
Dickey, Charles William
Douglas, David
Dow, Herbert Manchester
Dowling, James Joseph
Duncan, Robert Andrew
Dunshee, Herbert
:Qurant, James Alvah
Dyson, James
· Evans, George Scriven
Ewart, George Robert
Falk, Charles Jacob

Farnsworth; John
Faye, Hans Peter
Fernandez, Abraham.
Foster, Henry Whitman
Foster, William Edward
Francis, John Wilson
Frazee, William Lincoln
Friel, James Louzada
Graver, Joshua Norris
Giffard, Walter Montais
Gilman, Charles Henry
Gjerdrum, Kristian Sommerfeld
Godwin, William Henry
Gostick George Abram
Goudie, Frederick
Graham, William Montrose, P. M.
Greenwood, Joseph Theodore
Gregory, Bion Samuel
Gregory, James
Greig, George Bicknell
Greig, Norman
Grimwood, Charles Pace
Grimwood, Frederick William
Grindell, Herbert Joseph
Grossman, Mose Edmund
Gurrey, Alfred Richard
Hair, Robert
Hall, Charles Sumner
Halstead, Edgar
Halstead, Frank
Hapai, Henry Chase
Harrison, Arthur
Harrison, Vincent Marmaduke
Heilbron, William
Herrick, Charles Frederick
Hewitt, George Clinton
Hocking, Alfred
Hofgaard, Christopher Blom
Hoffman, Theodore
Holloway, Carl Sheldon
Holmes, Andrew
Holt, Bertram Griggs
Holt, John Dominis
Horswill, Charles Arthur
Howe, George Everett, P. M
Hughes, Edwin

ROSTER.
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Hyman, Joseph
Irwin, Chester
Isenberg, Daniel Paul Rice
Johnson, Christopher
Johnson, Milton- Bowers
Johnson, William
Jones, John Griffiths
Jones, John Walter
Jordan, Frank Holloway·
Jorgensen, Jorgen
Jungelaus, Alfred Henry
Kaiser, Carl
King, Thomas James
Kruger, Frank Julius
Lakusta, Nicholas
Lamar, Peter Edward
Lando, Jacob
Langeheim, Ernest
Lansing Theodore F.
Larnach, Alexander D.
Laws, Henry
Levingston, Isador
Lewers, Robert
Lewis, Abraham, Jr., P. M.
Lewis, Frederick Martin
Lewis, Edgar Louis
Lishman, Thomas Walker
Little, Joseph Musgrave, P. M.
Lloyd, Albert Edward
Logan, Arthur Conning
Lord, Edmund Joseph
Low, James Alfred
Lowrie, William James
Lucas, John
Lucas, Pierre Marie
Lucas, William T.
Lydecker, Robert Colfax
Lyons, Moses Timothy
Lyons, Joseph
Macintyre, Donald·
MacKintosh, Alexander, P. M.
MacKintosh, Cecil Arthur
Madeira, William Ives
Melanphy, John
MonSarrat, James Melville, P. M.

Moore, Charles Elijah
Morton, Henry Chesney
Myhre, Halvor
Myers, Jackson Randolph
McClellan, James
Mcintyre, Hugh Edward
McKeague, Robert Alexander
McKinnon, Joseph Malcolm
McNally, Charles Henry
l\foVeigh, John DeVive
Nase, Barnabus Tilton
Naylor, James Alfred Anderson
Neill, John, P. M.
Newman, Bradford Norton
Noble, Arthur C.
Nolte, Henry Julius
Norton, Charles Henry W.
Oat, Joseph Morton, P. M.
Olsson, Otto William
Orbell, Frank
Ouderkirk, John
Ovenden, Henry Clare
Owens, Roy
Parker, Samuel
Peacock, Walter Chamberlain
Pedgrift, James Henry
Petersen, William Niclai
Petrie, Lester
Pfluger, Henry Christian
Phillips, Mannie
Podmore, Robert Wood
Polmere, Nicholas John
Pope, Willis Thonvis
Porter, Kirk Bancroft
Purdie, John Stewart
Purdy, Hiram
Pratt, James William
Pressey, Milton Chester
Ramsay, Samuel
Ramsay, Samuel Robert
Rankin, Guy Fawkes
Rasmussen, Jens Peter
Rawlins, William Thomas
Raymond, James Harvey
Read, Decker Jewett
Reedy, Ray B.

35

36

ROSTER.

•

Renton, Henry Herbert
Rice, William Henry
Richardson, Frank Edward
Riley, William Russel
Rittenhouse, Charles Jonathan
Robinson, Mark Prever
Rodiek, Georg Friedrich
Rolph, George Morrison
Rostin, Louis Albert
Rothwell, John George, P. M.
Rowat, Allan Ritchie
Sachs, Nathaniel Sanders
Sanders, Milton Nelson
Schaefer, Frederick August
Shaw, Walter Edward
Schlemmer, Maximillian
Schoening, Julius William
Searle, John Bursnell
Searle, John Cooper
Siebecker, William Henry
· Singlehurst, William Gibson
Smiddy, Jerome Joseph
Smith, Frederick Carlos
Smith, Thomas
Smith, William Graham
Soper, John Harris, P. M.
Spalding, Edward Irwin, P. M.
St. John-Gilbert, Oswald
Stolz, Frederico Leupold
Sutherland, James
Swan, Edmund
'.i'.aylor, Henry Albert

Thayer, Wade Warren
Thompson, Frank Edward
Tracy, Clifton Howard
Tripp, Alfred Newton
Thot, Juergen
Tucker, Joshua Daniel
Venhuizen, John
Vetlesen, Love Moller
Wagner, George Julius
Waldron, John William
Walker, John Smith
Wall, Thomas Edward
Wallace, Kenneth Robert G.
Ward, George Edward
Waterman, Emil Joseph
Watkins, Norman
Webster, Albert Maxfield
Weight, William
Wells, William Ira
White, William
Whitney, Benjamin
Whitney, Frederick, P. M.
Wilder, Gerrit Parmile
Wilder, Arthur Ashford
Willard, John David
Willgeroth, Heinrich
Williams, Charles
Wolf, Lee H.
W oodd, John Charles
Wood, Clifford Brown
Wootten, Henry George

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:

-

-264

OCCIDENTAL LODGE, No. 22.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frederick A. Houseworth, Sen. Deac.,
James Malcolm Cleaves, Master,
Robert
Raymond Vail, Jun. Deacon,
Sam'l Henry Clawson, Sen. Ward.,
W. Kimball Fletcher, Junior Ward., Orville Charles Baldwin, Marshal,
Charles Lyman Haskell, Treasurer, August Fred. Brinkman, Steward,
Arthur Hobart Hallovan, Steward,
Walter Godfrey Anderson, Sec.,
George Theodore Fischer, Tyler.
G.e orge Warren Drew, Chaplain

Ahlborn, Charles Joseph Henry
Alderson, Frederick Lee
Allen, John Stevenson
Anderson, Walter Godfrey
Anderson, Winslow
Arnold, Ernest Benjamin
Arnold, Henry Augustus
Ashworth, Frank Parker
Atwood, William Amos
Avery, Francis
Ayers, Willis Henry ·
Babb, Harry Ruben
Backus, Samuel Woolsey, P. M.
Bailey, Lewis Hamilton
Baker, Frank Elmer
Baldwin, Murray
Baldwin, Orville Charles
Ball, Edgar Franklin
Barber, George Brinton
Barlage, William Andrew
Barnett, John Felix
Bauer, Christopher John
Beadle, Alfred William
Beard, Joseph Charles
Bebb, Joseph Grispia;
Beckett, John·
Beesey, Edmond
Beede, Alexander Creighton
Belden, Dan Falls
Bell, Henry James Clark
Be11.der, Paul August
Benedict, Courtland Smith
Benedict, Egbert Judson
Bennett, John
Berry, William Robert
Beatty, Henry Nixon
Bird, Harry
Black, Robert C.
.
Blair, Harry Napheys
Blair, Ralph Kirkham
Blakeslee, Frederick Alphonso
Blanton, John S.
Bliss, Charles
Bligh, Thomas Jolin

Bligh, Thomas John, Jr.
Boeckman, Frederick Charles
Bogen, Harry Walter
Bradford, Wallace
Brinkman, August Frederick
Brittan, William Giles
Bronson, Frithjoy
Brown, Alonzo Fitch
Brown, Andrew Alexander
·Brown, Amazon Henry
Brown, Harry Daniel
Brown, Christopher Robert, P. M.
Brownell, James Samuel
Bryan, William John
Bryan, William Vose, P. M.
Buckbee, Spencer Cone
Bullock, John Henry
Bullock, Russ Ranso.m
Bullock, Thomas Seamon.
Bultman, John Henry
Burner, Henry, P. M.
Bush, William John
Bush, Walter Nelson
Buttle, William Frederick
. Byrne, Charles Francis
Cameron, John
Campbell, Robert Willis
Campe, Henry Magnes
Capp, Cha:rles Singer
Cappelmann, John Christian
Carson, Robert Neddermark
Center, George Lillie
Chapman, Edward Kirk
Chapman, Frank
Chapman, Frederick York
Chesebrough, Andronicus
Chesebrough; Henry Clay
Cherry, Edward Martin
Chipman, William Farragut
Christensen, .John Peter
Clark, Edwin Charles
Clark, William Francis
·Classen, John William
Clawson, Samuel Henry

37

38

ROSTER.

Clayes, Wellington Irwin
Clift, Charles Warren
Clow, John Austin
Cochran, Hugh McCauley
Coler John Richard
Collins, Frederick Richard
Collins, George William
Collins, Richard Merithew
Comely, Charles John
Cookson, William Bonsall
Countryman, Robert Harmer, P. M.
Cox, Walter
Crane, Henry Adolphus
Cressey, Frank Albert
Crookshank, Arthur Henry
Crossley, Leonard Valentine
Curtis, Charles Mosses
Cutting, Henry Colman
Daggett, Almore Keith
Daggett, William Albertis
Damon, George Dimick
Damon, Marshall Nye
Davidson, Joseph Robertson
Davis, Richard D.
Davis, William Winters
Day, Charles Thurber
Deahl, John Linden
Dean, Walter Edwin
Decker, Peter
DeGear, Warren Jackson
Delger, Edward Frederick, P. M.
Denniston; Edward Gere
Derby, Albert Tirrell
Derby, John
DeSilva, Manuel Maria
Devlin, Thomas Daren
Dillman, George
Dillman, George Paul
Dittmann, Richard William
Dole, Walter Wooderson
Dow, George Alva
Downes, C. S.
Drew, George Warren, P. M
Drown, William Benjamin
Dryselius, Erland
Duebel, Charles

Dugan, Herbert Frank
Dunn, Ritchie Livingston
Durbrow, Harry
Dusinbury, John Benjamin
Eastman, 'I: homas Freeman
Edson, Benjamin
Edwards, Dwight
Edwards, William
Eva, William John
Evans, Albert S.
Ewen, John Sangster
Ewing, Samuel McGregor
Faymonville, Bernard
Ferguson, Oscar Henry
Field, Alfred Bishop
Field, Frederick Howard
Fischer, George Theodore
Fitzsi=ons, James Calvin
Flanders, Nathan
Fletcher, George William
Fletcher, Walter Kimball
Flint, Brilsford Pease, P. M.
Fonda, Charles Patterson
Fonda, Henry Stuart
Fonda, Walter Gibbs
Forbes, Charles
Formhals, Ferdinand
Foulkes, Edward William
Fraser, William Edward
Fredericks, Charles Edwin
French, Wheeler Nichols
Freon, Joseph Vigilus
Freund, Otto William
Frye, John Winslow
Fulmer, Walter Wilton
Gable, Herbert Aaron
Gage, William Stebbins
Gallagher, John Patrick
Gamble, Edward Lee
Geary, William
Gedge, Harry Edward
Gibbs, Nathan Henry
Gibson, George Robert
Gina:ca, Henry Gabrill
Gleaves, James Malcolm
Glidden, William Boardman

ROSTER.
Gompertz, Charles William
Gonzalez, Felix Francisco
Goold, Edward Louis
Gordon, Phil Kearney
Graham, Robert Jackson
Graham, William Sutphen
Grannis, Frederick Roscoe
Grannis, James Gerald
Graupner, Adolphus Ehrhardt
Gray, Clarence Harlow
Gray, William Brown
Green, Jona than
Groat, Charles Frazier
Grow1111, Willard Lawrence
Gunn, Benjamin McKay
Hall, Milton Rider
Hall, Otho Norris
Hallovan, Joseph Francis
Hallovan, Arthur Hobart
Halverson, Christian
I!ammersmith, John Anthony
· Hannan, David
Hanson, Peter Hjalmar
Hanson, William Henry
Harding, David Webster
Harding, Ralph Judd
Hardy Sumner
.
Harker, Oliver A lbert
Harmes, Joseph Theodore
Harpham, Lee Wheeler
Harris, Jerome Omberson
Hart, Marcus
Harville, Benjamin Franklin
Haskeil, Charles Lyman, P. M.
Haste, Julius Alexander
Hastings, Philip
Hatfield, Arthur George
Haver, Philys John
Haviside, John Joseph
Havner, James Randall
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Heckman, James Robert
Henderson, John Wesley
Hendy, John Harris
Heidt, Wesley
Hewitt, Edward 'l:homas
0

40
King, Charles Andrew
King, George Rufus
Kinney, Marshall Johnson
Kirk, Albert Wellington
Kirsch, Geo.rge Hans
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow
Klarmann, George
Klein, Louis J.
Klitgaard, Chris Fred N.
Klumpp, Otto Henry
Knechler, Henry Norbury
Korten, Edwin B. D.
Korts, Benjamin Frederick
Lackrµann, Ernest August
Lackmann, John Chris D'h
Lanewig, Arthur Edward
· Lafitte, Jacques de L.
Large, Charles Franklin
Landers, Edward
Landis, Edward Caspar, P. M.
· Lanfare, Clair Ford
Larsen, Anton Ludvig
Larsen, Bengt. John
Larsen, George
Laurence, Arthur Cornwall
Lawson, John Christian
Leach, George .Wonson
Leavitt, Albion Eastman
Leavitt, William Cowles
Lee, Al.b ert Edward
Lee, Francis Valentine T.
Lee, John
Lee, William Grant
Leggat, William Alexander
Lehners, Frederick Emil
Lilienthal, Ernest Reuben
Locksteadt, Louis
Long, Herbert Clifton
Lovejoy, John Hinton
Low, George .Beadton
Low, George Perley
Low, Josiah Orme .
Lundy, Aaron Linton
Lyman, Charles, P. M.
Macbeth, Frank David
Macdonald, William, P . M.

ROSTER.
Mace, Lewis Sayrie
Mackall, Benjamin Franklin
MacManus, Walter F.
Mallott, Watson Howard
Mathis, Theophilus Smith
Mantle, Byron Gillette, P. M.
Martin, Alexander
Matthey, Robert Henry
Manran, Joseph Russell
Merrill, Elijah Hedding
Merrill, James. William
McArthur, Alexander
McCahon, George
Mccurdy, Marcy
McEwen, John Jardine
McGinnis, Robert John
McGowan, Frank
McKinlay, James
McMahon, Cal. Clarke
McMann, Thomas
McManus, John Joseph
McNutt, William Fletcher
McNutt, William Fletcher, Jr.
McRoskey, Leonard Henry
Miehling, George Sebastian
Mierdierks, William Augustus
Miles, David EdwiJ!, P . M.
Miller, Charles Nicholas
Miller; Joseph Alois
Miller, Richard Elgin
Miller, Thurlow Spragge
Miller, William Henry
Miller, William Penn
Miller, William S.
Mills, John Swinburne
Mitchell, Edward Henry
Mitchell, William Edwin
Mobley, William Thomas
Moebus, Fred. William Gus, P. M.
Moffitt, Albert Hubbard
Moore, Avard Joseph ·
Mulford, Thomas Whited
Murphy, Charles Henry, P . M.
Murray, Hugh
Myers, Robert Carling
Nagle, Alfred John

ROSTER.
Nelson, Charles
Newman; Charles James
Newman, Robert Edwin
Newman, William
Norris, John Roosevelt
Oakley, Edward David
Olsen, ·Frederick Henry
Orcutt, William Henry
Osborn, Russell Wight
Osborne, James Stuart.
Osmunn, William Finley H.
Olsen, Alfred
Packham, Thomas George
Page, Frank William
Pattison, Charles Frederick
Penn, Charles Samuel
Penniman, Charles Wood
Pernan, Henry Frank ·
Peters, John Frederick Frank
Peters, William
Peterson, Frank Baltzer
Petersen, Nes Peter
Pfeiffer, William Frederick
Philbrick, Everett David
Philbrick, Walter Jacob
Phillips, Robert Bonsall
Pickney, Thomas Cochran
Pratt, Othello Curtis
Pratt, Zenas Campbell
Prellberg, Charles William
Prior, Clark Churchill
Prior, John Lewis
Purdy, John Elbridge, P. M.
· Purlenky, George Carl
Purlenky, George Philip
Quimby, Leon Shirley
Quinn, William Henry
Radovich, Bozo
Raisch, Fred
Rees, William John
Reichert, Theodore
Richards, Stephen. -Henry
Richardson, George Worth
Richardson, Walter Scott
Read, Emerson Worrell ·
Remmel, Bert Engles

Robertson, John Harvey
Robinson, Samuel
Rogers, John Boxter
Rogers, William Augustus
Rohl:ffs, Walter Vogt
Rohrhand, Charles ·William
Romaine, William
Root, George Washington
Rosengran, John Herman
Rumpf, Frank Joseph
Russ, Henry Stanford
Sage, Orlando Gustavus
Saleh, George Charles
Sanborn, William David
Sa'Vage, Michael .;roseph, P. M.
Schmidt, Herman August Theodore
Schnoor, Charles Otto
Schouten, John Wesley .
Schreiber, William Au. Martin
Schultz, Charles
Schwerin, Henry William
Scott, Clarence Sydney
Scott, George Mearns
Scott, Walter Day
Segelhorst, Louis
Seiferd, James Frederick
Sharp, James Cohen
Sharp, Edwin Clinton
Sharts, Alton J.
Sherman, Frank Potter
Shields, Frank Duncan
Simpson, Henry Robert
Sinclair, John William
Skinner, John Charles
Sleeper, Charles
Smith, Grant Ward
Smith, James Jerome
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, William
Snedaker, William Harvey
Snook, James Athearn, P. M.
Sorenson, Charles Made
Southard, Carroll 0 'Brien
Spencer, George Willis
Spotswood, Robert Henry
Spotswood, William James

41

42

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Spriggs, Leon Walter
Squires, George DeForrest
Staude, Fred
Staude, John .
Steiger, Louis A.
Stewart, Boandon·
· Stone, Walter Somers
Suter, Daniel
Taylor, Howard Prentice, Jr.
Taylor, John Brinkworth
T 'Beck, William
Terwilliger, Newton Clark
Thomas, Edward Jennings, P. M.
Thompson, Joseph
Thompson, Peter
Thompson, Walter Simeon .
Thornton, Bruce Patrick
Tibbey, Frederick Milton
Tilton, Robeit Fletcher
Toum-ey, George
Trampleasure, Thomas Edward
Teague, Ralph Allen
Travis, Edward Charles
Trevor, Henry
Tucker, Edwin Stanley
Turner, Allison Howard
Turner, George Webster
Tuttle, Jam.es William
Tyson, James
Tyson, Mitchell
Tyson, Robert ;rames
Uglow,· Arthur Whitburn
Upton, Thomas Bennett
Vail, Robert Raymond

Van Court, DeWitt Carroll
Van Hom, John Howard
Venable, Joseph Gibbon
Volkhardt, Frederick August
Vradenburg, Preston Hickok
Wadham, Lyman
Ward, John Emmett, Jr.
Warren, William True
Watkins, William Hartley
Webster, Henry John
Webster, John Henry
Weeden, Henry Frank
Weinmann, Louis
Wells, ltobert Huntington
West, Frank A.
Wetjen, Cord
White, Lovell
White, Roy Samuel
Wieland, Albert Gust11v
Wilcox, William Darius
Willett, Walter Marinus
Williams, Charles Frederick
Williams, Oscar
Williams, William Alfred
Wilson, Charles Woodworth
Wilson, Herman Fowler
Wilson, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Wilson, Carl Traves
Wimmer, George Washington
Winterburn, Joseph
Wiswell, Edward Smith
Wise, Robert Alma
W1se, Thomas Clark
Woodlock, John, P. M.
-524

..

MADISON LODGE, No. 23.
Grass Valley, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each m.r.th.
OFFICERS:
John Davey, Senior Deacon,
Bennett Opie, Master,
Matthew Whilkin Argall, Sen. W., William John P eters, Junior Deac.,
George Louis Jones, Junior Warden, Theo. Henry Willielm, Marshal,
I saac Nicholas, Steward,
John Glasson, Treasurer,
William David Harris, Secret ary, Harry Libby Body, Steward,
Richard Caddy, Tyler.
William Edwards, Chaplain,

•

MEMBERS:
' Griffin, George
Andrews, James
A,ver, Frank, P. M.
Green, Henry
Angove, Jeremiah
Gates, James Henry
Argall, Matthew Henry
George, Richard Henry
Argall, Matthew Whilkin
George, Albert Grant
Argall, William John
Gill, Arthur Lyonel
Bennallack, Joseph
Hooper, James
Brown, James W.
Harris, William David
Barker, Charles
Harris, Elmer Mills
Body, William Christ.opher Dart
Barris, Thomas Milton
Bryan, David
Hawley, William Alexander, P. M.
Berriman, Thomas Henry
Haas, Isidor
Berriman, William Samuel
Hicks, John
Bartell, Joseph
Hattam, Joseph
Bishop, William Crase
Hosken, William Henry
Body, Harry Libby
Holman, Francis Christopher
Brockington, Charles Aaron
Haack, Ernest Herman
Coombe, William, P. M.
Hosking, Albert James
Coleman, John Crisp, P. M.
Ingram, Thomas, P. M.
Coleman, Edward, P . M.
Jones, Robert
Cooper, Arthur
Johnston, Peter
Coombs, William
Jenkins, Alfred
Caddy, Richard
Jenkins, Jabez Arthur
Care, Thomas John
Jones, George Louis
Clinch, Charles Edward
Jones, John Taylor
Campbell, George
Kinsman, John
Curnow, William
Kinsman, Alfred
Cofiln, Oscar Lewis
Kohler, Theodore A.
Dorsey, Samuel Packwood
Lewis, John
Dunstan, William
Leatham, John Tonkin
Dodge, John Lewis
Lord, William Goyne
Daniels, Henry
Larue, Lloyd Palmer
Davies, David
Michell, Thomas John, P. M.
Deeble, Daniel
Mitchell, Charles Henry
Davies, Richard
Maddrill, Charles Edward
Ducotey, Frank
Maddrill, James Henry
Davey, Charles
Michell, Paul Wesley, P. M.
Davey, John
Matteson, David Edwin
Evans, Thomas
Miller, Fred Manning
Edwards, William, P. M.
McDougall, William
Fuchs, Henry
Martin, William Philip
Frank, Robert John
Morgan, Harry Elmer
Farrar, Charles Ernest
Matteson, Edwin Stanley
Granger, Samuel
Northway, John
Glasson, John, P. M.
Nettle, Charles H enry

43

ROSTER.
ROSTER.
44

Nicholas, Isaac
Oliver, William Phillips
Opie Bennett
Oth:t, Charles Franklin
Peers, Joseph
Phillips, John
Peterson, Andrew Gustaf
·perkin, John
Pearce Thomas J enkyn
Prisk, William Frederick
Pascoe, John Henry
Prisk, Henry
Peters, William John
Prisk, Charles Henry
Richards, Edward Ingram
Rogers, William James
Root, Orville Hurd,
Ralph, Philip Henry
Sanders, John
Stone, Marion Pierce, P. M . •
Sears, Paul Stickney

Stein, Isidor
Sleep, William Albert
Smith, Charles B.
Stein, Wolf
Smart, Eben Knight
'l'rewren, George Charles
Thomas, Frederick James
Tyrrell, Jame~ C.
'l'homas, William
Trotter, George Thomas
Vincent, George
Wilhelm, Theodore Henry, P. M.
Williams, William Henry
Werry, John
Winn, William
Williams, Joseph Edward
Williams, William Charles
Whiting, Fred James
Walker, Henry Rollo
Zaph, Carl H.
-132
Zipf, John Philip

MARIPOSA LODGE, No. 24.
Stated

Mariposa, Mariposa County.
1
Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding F1i.l Moon.

OFFICERS:
No Certificate.
:MEMBERS:
Dale, Thomas
Austin, Henry Clay
Edwards, William Charles
Barnett, James
J!'arnsworth, Thomas :MeCready
Bondshu, Frank Albert
Farnsworth, Walter Scott
Clark, Joseph
Gonzales, Manuel
Cronin, Timothy Joseph
Gibbs, Carl Scott
Craighan, James Duffy, P. M.
Gilbert James Arthur
Champion, Stephen James
Hulsm~nn, Henry Nicklas
Cavin, William Hayse
Hill, John
Clow, Nelson Lawrence
Haseltine, Richard Snell
Davanay, Hugh
·Heger, Alma Jacob
Dunn, James Neil
Johns, Samuel Joseph, P. M.
Dullenty, Edward

....

Johns, Trevenen James
Jenkins, Richard May
Kinchin, Peter
Kenney, George Martin Francis
Kylerg, Larentius Adam C. H.
Langley, Arnold Seymour
Lind, Carl Gustaf
Lind, John Hewell
Lind, Thomas Temple
Lind, Carl Gustaf, Jr.
Larew, John Snidow, P. M.
Larew, James Alexander
Ludwig, John Daniel
Merrilees, John Manson, P. M.
Milburn, William Charles

McElligott, James Patrick
Nice, George Ernest
Potthast, Frank
Robinson, George Henley
Smith, William
Schlageter, Frederick William, P. M.
Schilling, Frederick
Speraro, Angelo
Sharp, Lewis Walter
Trabucco, Frank Thomas
Tretheway, John Thomas
Trewin, Peter
Wason, Edward Putnam, P. M.
Westfall, Joel Jackson

-53

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25.
Georgetown, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Charles Edward Jerrett, Master,
Benj. Leon Peters, Senior Deacon,
Walter Nevada Grover, Sen. Ward., Geo. Custer Simpson, Junior Deacon,
Charles Platt Barbee, Jun. Warden, Isaac Grinnell Swift, Marshal,
William Simpson Hickman, Treas., Herbert Bitalum Dobbas, Steward,
George Henry Heuser, Secretary,
Thatcher Townsend Lovejoy, Stew.'d,
James Francis Walk, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Grant, George Lincoln
Glasson, Josiah
Hickman, William Simpson, P. M.
Hayden, Asia Thurston
Hersey, Columbus Soule, P. M.
Heuser, George Henry
Jerrett, Charles Edward
Johns, John
Lanmey, Charles Hinton
Lawyer, Frank Wilber
Lovejoy, Loriston Hale
Lovejoy, Thatcher Townsend
Martin, Herbert Sargent, P. M.
Myers, Lewis Lane

Beattie, Christopher
Benjamin, Clinton Elisha
Barbee, Charles Platt
Bishop, John, P. M.
Bucknam, William Alvin, P. M.
Darling, Charles
Diehl, Sandford David, P. M.
Dobbas, Herbert Bitalum
Dotta, Lodovico
Fillippini, Rinaldo
Fredericks, William
Grover, Harry Morris, P. M.
Grover, Orrin Scripture
Grover, Walter Nevada

46

ROSTER.

Stevenson, Thomas
Noble, Robert
Swift, Isaac Grinnell, P. M.
Presby, Alvin Moore
Walk, James Francis
Peters, Benjamin Leon
Walker Adolph Henry
R'ich • John Colby,
. P. M.
Wade 'John, P. M.
Reedshaw, Wil~iam John
Ware: John Adrian
Rodetti, Franc~sco. F
kl'
White Albert Clarence
Sh h d BenJamm ran m
'
ep er '
h' t
p M White Joseph Fullerton
Simpers, George Was mg on, . .
. ·' T
•
p M
G
Custer
White, .... ouis, · ·
Simpson, eorge
Wood William James
--48
Sturman, Sidney Grant
'

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 26.
Placerville, El Dorado County.
Stated :Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
T Fielding Lewis, Sen. Deacon,
Louis Adam Reeg, Master,
·
K
Jun Deacon
Theodore Charles Atwood, Sen. W., John ~- k eWrn, Ge~ Marsh~l
J · Warden Frederic
m.
'
'
Daniel George Carr, umor
' Albert Herbert Greeley, Steward,
Shelley Inch, Sr., Treasurer,
H
Hardie Tracy Steward,
Charles Henry Weathewax, s_ecre., J:~7s Lambert We~outh, Tyler..
Thomas Parker Boyd, Ghaplam,
MEMBERS:
Blakeley, Auburn James
Ashcroft, Henry
Blakeley, Robert Franklin
Avansino, Nicolo
Brooks, Adam
Alderson, Richard
Bares Frederick Ferdinand, P. M.
Allen, John Page
Burnham, George Huntington, P. M.
Atwood, Theodore Charles
Bosquit, Dallas Archibald
Arnot, Natha~eL Dubois
Brown, William :Marcellus
Banning, Andrew Course
Bechtel, Warren A.
Barlow, George Washington
Boyd, Thomas Par~er
Boulden, Thomas
Blakeley, George Lmcoln
Beach, Seth Gibbs, P. M.
Coffin, Oliver
Ball, Albert
Co.m bellack,. John
Butts, Lowery Taylor
Combeliack, William
Barney, William
Campini, James Girlocomo
Baum, Rudolph Waldmar
Collins, Walter Eugene
Board, James
Creighton, James Samuel
Blair, Robert
Cain, Lemuel Barnett
Blair, James Blackwood
Campini, Vincent James
Blair, John
Carr, Daniel George
Blair, Robert William

ROSTER.
Celio, Carlo Gueeeppe
Clark, Thomas
Clark, George Murray •
Cook, Earl Lewis
Culbertson, Andl'ew Thompson
Cote, Phileas
Cleese, John Peter
Duncan, Albert Henry
Dunton, Charles Henry
Davis, Edward Albert
Day, John Martin
Day, Robert Newton
Duden, William Calvin
Evins, Jehu
Ervert, Emil
Fisher, Frederick William
Fitch, Oscar Plank
Fox, Albert Sherman
Frick, Walter Paul
Gee, Fr~derick William, P. M.
Greeley, Albert Henry
Gruben, Bern!!.rd
Green, Edwin
Uoodrich, Dcin H.
Hughes, Marshall
Heiser, Joseph
Hogan, John Keeler
Hardie, Thomas Oswald
Henderson, Alexander Duncan
Hofmeister, George
Hogan, Philip Barringer
Hungerford, Frank Mason
Harris, Richard Cory
Hogan, Charles
Huffman, George B.
Hand, Charles Edward
Inch, Shelley, Sr., P. M.
Inch, Shelley, Jr.
Jones, Adial Sabin
Jones, William Albion
Jones, John Charles
Kohlert, John
Kohn, Nathan Leopold
Keyser, Jamee Peter, P. M.
Kern, John Edward
King, George Carol

47

Koletzk.e, Arthur James
Limpineel, John Frederick
La Rue, John Samuel
Lovel.eee, Seth, P. M.
Lewis, Thomas Feilding
Mason, Benjamin Dorsey
Mack, George Franklin, P. M.
Miller, John Wesley
Marchino, Marco
Mierson, Max, P. M.
McKinzie, William Ernest
Macomber, David Wheeler, P. M.
Martin, Frederick Courier
Mayer, Michael
McAfee, Alexander Lewis
McCarty, Thomas Emett
McCoy, William Augustus
McKee, George Washington, P. M.
McLaughlin, James Michael, P. M.
Meehan, Marcellus Quintin
Morey, Frank Henry
Morey, Henry Sylvester
Morris, Oliver Vinton1 P. M.
Muffiey, William Napp, P. M.
Miller, Walter Elmer .
Morton, Oliver Leonard
Mann, Oscar Arthur
Olmst.ead, Sheldon Patterson
Owen, Joseph Frederick
Ortman, Fred
Pascoe, John
Patterson, Robert Pagan, P. M.
Pearson, John, P. M.
Piaggi, Eugene
Pinneo, Oscar Elgin
Plummer, Howard Clark
Perryman, Frederick William
Ralph, Thomas
Rupley, Theodore
Richards, Charles Thomas
Richards, William James
Richards, James
Rantz, Stephen Heeter, P. M.
Rolleri, George Charles
Reeg, Louis Adam
Robles, Oscar

ROSTER.

48

ROSTER.

Varozza, Rico
Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Weyµiouth, James Lambert
Weyman, William
Wilson, Stephen Britton
Webb, Jean Francis, Jr.
Walling, Horace Herbert
Waters, John Nicholl
Weatherwax, Charles Henry
Witmer, Elam Washington
Wires, Albert Melville
Whittier, William Jeremiah
Weymouth, Stephen James
Whitney, James Palache
Young, Perly Andrew
Young, Francis Emmett

Sumner, William Henry
Sheldon, Henry Bradley
. Schroeder, Carl Herman
Simon, David Samuel
Skinner, John Dodd, P. M.
Smith, Edward Lamar
Smith, Wilson Clate
Swisler, Charles Albert
Streeter, George Washington
Smith, John Adam
Tacchino, Vincenzo
'fhompson, John William
Theisen, John
Tracy, Perry Spencer
Tracy, Henry Hardie
Varozza, Giacoma
Varozza, Marco

-163

Hammerberg, Gustaf
Hansen, Detlef, P. M.
Haskin, Albert P.
Hays, Hiram Bennett
Hupp, William Irving, P. M.
Hupp, James Wiley
Hall, Henry Maurice
Harnett, John Abraham
Jones, Theodore Elden, P. M.
Lowden, William Spencer
Lowden, Henry Larkin, P. M.
Leonard, Henry William
LaBaree, William Hersey, P. M.
Mason, John Clifton, P. M. ·
Meckel, John Weinheimer
Mortimer, Washington
Meckel, Frederick Christian
Paulsen, Charles
Paulsen, Henry William
Paulsen, Peter Minert

49

Paulsen, Albert Lincoln
Paulsen, Arthur Ed~in
Personette, Moses William, P. M .
Reed, Benjamin Hayden
Rowles, James
Shand, John Edward
Schall, Johri Lewis
Shuford, John William
Smith, Jeremiah
Smith, John Huron
Swift, Edward Dexter
Tourtellotte, J ease Francis
Van Matre, John Chandler
Van Matre, George
Vollmers, William
Wilson, _James
Waste, J ease Jackson
Young, William Ware
Zarli, Frederick
-63

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.
Weaverville, Trinity County.
Stated Meetings, last Saturday of each month.
OFFICERS:

William Irving Hupp, Master,
Henry Larkin Lowden, Senior Deac., .
Aug. Frederick Bremer, Senior W., William Ware Young, Junior Deac.,
Jesse F. Tourtellotte, Junior Ward., William Spencer Lowden, Marshal,
Peter Minert Paulsen, Treasurer,
Morris Augustus Brady, Steward,
Detlef Hansen, Secretary,
William Adolph Goetze, Steward,
Johann Henrich Bremer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Dimock, Frank Leslie
Edwards, William Rose
Fetzer, Albert John
Fields,· David Blackstone
Flagg, Jacob Redding
Flourand, Mathiere
Goetze, Henry William
Goetze, William Adolph
Gioen, Horace Robert
Goodyear, Charles Eugene
Gehm, George Frederick
Hass, Frederick Gotlieb

Blake, Selden Lafayette
Bremer, John Henry
Barnickel, Bernard
Bremer, August Frederick
Brady, Morris Augustus
Carter, John Walker
Cass, Charles Lucien
Carr, George Lee
Cummings, James
Cummings, Robert Fulton
Condon, William
Dannenbrink, William Frederick

GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Me~tings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles LaSalle Parks, Master,
Franklin Ray. Haley, Senior Deac.,
Wm. Wallace Thompson, Sen. W., Albert Daniel Whitehead, Jun. D
Abraham S. Sullivan, J nnior W., William George Bluhm, Marshal "
Charles Augustus Wegener, Treas., William Henry Hindle Steward '
E~w!n Lewis Meyer, Secretary,
Frederick Gilmore Ca~ney, Ste.;ard,
Wilham Schuyler Moses, Chaplain, John D 'Arey, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ackerman, Charles Herman
Allison, Thomas Sydney
Adcock, Charles Edmund
Andersen Charles
Agard, William Antoine Todd, P. M.Anderson'. Andrew
Ahlquist, Frans Wiktar
Anderson Harvey Derious
Aigeltinger, Edward Hugo
Anderson' Herman
Airey, Robert Joseph, P. M.
Andres George Samuel
Aitken, Jamiis
Andre~s, Lewis Titcomb
Allen, Joseph William Everett
· Ard, Edward James
Alberts, Carl
Armes, George Arthur

50
. Armistead, Cecil Miller
Aspe, John William
Atkinson, John Robert
Baar, James Lausen
Backus, Charles
·
Baird, Frederick Guernsey
Bang, Armand. Carrell ·
Barnes, Joshua Daniel
Battalora, Felix, Jr.
Beardsley, Edwin Willis
Beck, John Elof
Beckett, Hugh Reid
Bennett, James Henry
Berg, Gustave
Bergman, Adolph
Bernhard, John
Bertelsen, Andrew Larsen
Bjick, Paul Robert
Blakeway, John Henry
Bleie, John Arneson
Bluhm, William George
Blyth, Henry, Jr.
Blyth, William John
Bolgc>r, James
Bollo, Atilio Peter
Bollo, Mario George
Born, Ernest Otto
Born, Julius Adolph Theodore
Bowes, John Edward
Bowren, Charles
Brady, Edward Robert
Breckenridge, William Jamieson
Brown, John
Brumfield, William Cleney
Brunbrook, Amura Fracis
Brust, Joseph Peter
Bundesen, Boy
Burnham, Francis Mortimer
Burson, David Hugh
Cairns, John Thorburn
Cameron, Wallace Davenport
Canney, Frederick Gilmore
Cantin, Alexander Aimwcll
Cantley, James
Carlsen, Axel Theodore
Carlson, Johan Hilmer

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Carlson, Otto Wilhelm
Carnegie, John
Christian, Caesar
Christie, Henry Rithie
Christie, Robert
Clark, George Dickson
Clarke, Samuel Andrews, P. M.
Cobby, John Wilmott
Collins, William Webb
Cook, Aaron
Cook, Benjamin Franklin
Cook, Philip Henry
Cosgrave, John Paul
Craig, David John
Craig, John Bynum
Craig, Robert James
Craig, Theodore Leonidas
Craig, William Henry
Crockard, Robert Francis
Cumming, Joseph Moore
Dabel, Richard
Daggett, John
Dahl, Charles William
Dahl, John Martin
Dahlstedt, Adrian Frithiof
Damkroeger, Daniel August
Davidson, Henry Wood Johnston
Davidson, Walter Park
Davies, George
D'Arcy, John
Deacon, William
Deegan, John Joseph
DeLamare, August Jacques
DeLisle, Raymond Frank
Doane, John Osborne, P. M.
Dormer, John Montieth
Dorward, David, Jr.
Duebel, Charles August
Duncan, William Cluff
Dunne, Francis Henry
Earle, Slade Anthony, Jr., P. M.
Eastwick, Philip Garrett, Jr.
Eggerstedt~ William
Ekstrom, Frank
Elliott, Hamilton Scholes
Everding, John

•

•

Fake, George John
Fisher, Owen Frank
Flaglor, Amasa Plummer, P. M.
Fogalsang, Thomas Edwin
Foord, James ·
Forbes, Richard James Harvey
Foster, William Sinclair
Fredericksen, Hans Rasmus
Freese, John Herman
Freese, Joseph Christian.
Fullerton, Darwin Phelps
Fullerton, John
.Furman, Lawrence Magnus
Furst, Walter Wilfred
Galvin, Thomas Martin
Oardiner> William George
Garratt, Benjamin Franklin
Garrick, Walter James
Geantit, Antonio
Genereaux, Victor Henri
Gilmour, John
Glunz, John Benjamin
Goddard, George Henry
Good, Richard
Goodall, Harry Walter
Grannell, John
Green, John Frederick
Greene, Watson Hatch
Gref, John Thomas, P. M.
Groth, Soren Gudme B.
Grubb, Joseph Richards
Grum, William
Guthrie, James
Guttormsen, Barthold
. Hague, Charles John
Haley, Franklin Raymond
Hamilton, Charles John
Hammond, Hugh William
Hanell, William
Hansen, Ole Mehrten
Hasman, Charles Joseph
Hatfield, Lenox Chauncey
Haviside, John Joseph, Jr.
Hawes, Talton
Hedley, John
Henrix, Edward

51

Hens.h elwood, Thomas Robb, P. M.
Hensley, Archie Howard
Herbert, William
Herma.nsson, Charles Adolf
Hernan, Michael Howard
Herrington, Howard
Hetty, Julius Finck
Heuer, August Ferdinand
Hewitt, Charles Henry
Hildebrand, Henry Bernhard
· Hilton, James
Hindle, William Henry
Hoffman, Robert Ogden
Holm, Christian
Holman, William Lewis
Horgan, Cornelius John
Howell, Eqward Henry
Huddleston, Hugh
Hudspeath, John
Hughes, George
Hulings, Burton Fisher
Humphreys, James Holroyd, P. M.
Hunsicker, Jeremiah Emanuel
Hnnter, Thomas
Hutchins, Day Selden
Hyvarinen, John Walfrid
Iversen, Niels, P. M.
Jackson, John Farren
Jager, Eyvind
Jensen, Niels Peter
Johnsen, Laurita
Johnson, Abraham Wallace
Johnson, Charles Otto, P. M
Johnson, Elmer Harold
Johnson, James Halliday Baker
Jones, Cliff Lowell .
Jorgensen, Carl Johan Emil
Jorgensen, Jorgen Michael
Jorgensen, Niels Frederick Daniel
Jorgensen, Waldemar Sophos Emil
Karstensen, John
Kent, Samuel Henry, P. M.
Kidston, William
Kingston, James Jervis
Kitchen, John, Jr.
Kitchen, William Mortimer

52
Klein, Frederick
Knapp, Gustav
Knief, George Ernest
K;offold, Peter Mathias
Korner, George Henry
Lagomarsino, Louis Andrew
Lange, William
Langstaff, William John
Larsen, Christian Ferdinand
Larsen, John Ludwig
Law, Thomas
Lawless, James John
LeGal, Clarence Lindsay
Leonard, John Buck
Leslie, Andrew Thomas
Levach, Alexander
Lewis, Charles William Robert
Lindberg, Knut Whilhelm
Lindblom, Erik Olof
Linsley, William Edward
Little, George Edward
Little, William Tell
Littlefield, Frank Peters
Louw, Henry Andrew
Lowry, John
Ludwig, Anton John
Lund, Soren Sorensen
Lundquist, Fred
Lutticken, Louis John
Lutz, Charles August
Macdonald," Theodore Hall, P. M.
Mannie, Emmett Marcell
Mariech, Frank Paul
Martin, Robert Elmer Ellsworth
Mearns, Frank William
Mearns, James
Mengel, Albert Louis
Menke, Harry John Louis
Merrill, Albert Henry
Merx, Emil Otto Herman
Meyer, Edwin Lewis, P. M.
Mikkelsen, Christen Peter
Miller, John Henry
Moller, Erdmann Leopold
Montell, Edgar Henderson
Montell, Henry Hamilton

ROSTER.
Morgan, Elisha
Morgan, Hamilton
Morose, Thomas Victor
Morris, Edward Thomas
Moses, William Schuyler, P . M.
Muirhead, John Scott
McCaw, Anthony
McCaw, Thomas Scandrett
McClelland, John
McClements, John
McConnell, Alexander
McConnell, Gibson
McCulloch, John Edward
McElroy, Joseph Francis
McGarrity, Donald Dennie
McGrath, Edward
Mcintosh, Lachlan
McKeon, John
McKinnon, Norman
McKinnon, William Wilson
McLeee, Jamee Thomas
McLeod, Angus
McMillan, Charles California
McNally, Frank Lawrence
McNally, Jamee Joseph
Naghel, Louie Henry
Neubarth, John Julius
.Newsom, James Byron
Nicoll, Alexander
Nicolson, Alexander
Nielsen, Peter
Nightingale, John
Noonan, John Hayes
Nopander, Louis Nicolas
Nuteen, Charles Andrew
Nygran, Anfon William
0 'Connor, Thomae Michael
Olson, John Petter
Otzen, George
Owens, John.
Owens, Robert Clogher
Palmer, George Franklin
Parke, Charles LaSalle
Parks, John
Parke, Rollie River
Parks, Yuba River

ROSTER.

•

•

Patterson, James, P. M.
Patterson, John Fargo
Paulson, John Nicholas
Payne; Redmond Wellington
Pearson, Albert
Pelton, Hazlitt Lee .
Pennington, Thomas
Petersen, Gustav H. C.
Petersen, J aco·b
Pfeiffer, Rudolph
Phelps, Asa Hosmer, P. M.
Phelps, Frank Augustus
Pratt, Augustus David
Pugh, William Henry
Purcell, William Lee
Pu~nam, Kingman Ruford
Raabe, Leon Stangle
Raphael, Robert
Raymond, Arthur James, P . M.
Reed, Henry
Reese, Evan Leander
Renwick, C~arles Almon
Rice, Peter Christian
Ripperdan, Oswell Thomas
Robertson, George
Robinson, Charles
Robinson, Richard Gregory
Roeder, August Edwart
Rogers, Edwin Newton
Rogers, Ranaan
Rose, Charles Hugh
Ruling, Charles
Salvesen, Reier
Sanches, Gardner Gilman
Sarrine, John Rudolph
Saxe, Robert Edward
Scheel, Conrad
Schelling, Jacob
Schlitter, George Alexander
Schmidt, Edward
Scoby, John Carl
Selby, Herbert Kirtland
Semple, Hewson Cox
Shade, Widenham Daniel C.
Shane, Adolphus D.
Shaw, Stephen Browne

Sherman, Frank Bentz
Siesbuttel, Alexander
Silvia, William Collons
Simmie, Albert Tate
Simmons, Benjamin Cromwell
Simmons, Samuel Darrow
Sinclair, John
Skelly, James Henry, P. M.
Smith, Charles William
·Smith, Henry
Smith, John Henry
Smith, Mortimer Franklin
Smith, Robert Neil
Smith, Walter Henry
Smith, William Ferdinand
Smith, William John
Smith, William Magnus
Sorensen, Albert Henry
Sorensen, James Andersen
Southard, Frank David
Spear, William John
Squire_s,. William Dunning
Stafford, William Gardner
Stanquist, John Victor
Stark, David
Steies, Albert John
Stokkebye, Peter Madsen
Standberg, Charles
Stratman, John
Struve, Henry Knighton
Stuart, Frank Hayden
Sullivan, Abraham Sinclair
Thomas, William
Thomas, William David
Thompson, Frank Webster
Thompson, Rufus Wadleigh, P. M.
Thomps~n, William Wallace
Thomson, Arthur Gale
Thomson, Harvey King
Thomson, Thomas
Thornberg, Anton Frederick
Toft, Neal Christensen
Tomasini, Henry Richard
Torey, Stanley
Tower, Horace Frederick
Trebell, John, Jr.

53

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

54

Trebell, 'Ihomas
Trumbull, Lyman Frank
Turner, Matthew
Tway, Ephraim Foster
Vance, George Prescott, P. M.
VanCleve, John Thompson
Vega, Frank Abraham
Venker, Henry Hermann
Volkmann, Alfred Arthur
Von Rusen, John Henry
Von Rusen, William
Wagner, Charles Augustus William
Wale, George
Wallace, Thomas
Walsh, George Charles
Washburn, George Benjamin
Weaver, Dwight Smith
Wegener, Charles Augustus, P. M .
Weitkunat, Edward

Wenzell, William Theodore
Whitehead, Albert Daniel
Whitelaw, Thomas Potaro H.
Wickersham, John Worth
Wilkie, Malcolm Darroch
Wilson, Arthur Latto
Wilson, Harley Payton
Witmer, Gottlieb
Wohler, John Frederick Hermann
Woodard, Marshall Hooks
Woodruff, Rowel Randolph
Woodworth, Marshall Borel
Worden, Walter Le Roy
Wright, William George, P. M.
Wright, William Quinby
Young, Allen Edward
Young, Robert Nich.,.Je11
Zeh, George Henry
-!23

GOLD HILL LODGE, No. 32.
Lincoln, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Hansen Paulsen Jansen; Master,
Walter Jansen, Senior Deacon,
Henry Whittley Ahart, Senior W., John A. Livingstone, Junior Deac.,
Carlos Williams, Junior Warden,
Jens Peter Thomsen, Marshal,
Albert James Gladding, Treasurer, John Goy, Steward,
Geo. Francis Pemberton, Secretary, Charlea Fritz Beerman, Steward,
Marcus Thomsen, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Crosby, Fred Chase
Christiensen, John Peter N.
Croly, James
Davis, Frederick Calvin, P. M.
Fleming, Albert Carlyle
Fleming, Albert Charles
Frederick, Henry David
Frederick, Morris Huse
F~nney, William Norman
Fuller, Richard Nelson

Adams, Lorenzo Dow
Ahart, Henry Whitley
Beermann, Charles Fritz
Bessac, Henry William, P. M.
Bickford, John Herbert
Blackie, Anthony McClellen
Buck, John Hiram
Bulson, Charles Hermon, P. M.
Clark, Owen
Crosby, Josiah Chase

Gray, Galusha
Gladding, Albert James, P. M.
Gerber, John, P. M.
Goy, Charles
Goy, John
Herper, Thomas Burrill, P. M.
Haenny, John, P. M.
Hartwick, Robert Charles
Handling, Thomas
Hill, John Albert
Hill, Edward Eugene
Hislop, William
Hislop, James White
Hughes, William
Herold, Adam Rudolph
Jansen, Walter, P . M.
Jansen, Hans Pauls.e n, P. M.
Jackson, Julian Allen

•

•

Jones, Byron W.
Landis, John Bartle
Lehe, Eugene David Noah
Livingstone, John Alexander
Michael, Martin
Missner, Frank
Olsen, Charles Sorensen
Powers, Amos Mathew, P. M.
Pemberton, George Franc~s, P. M.
Pemberton, John Wilmer
Rivas, Emanuel
Roberts, William Ewing
Sparks, Edmond Jones, P. M.
Sparks, William Martin
!:landers, Frank Long
Thomsen, Jens Peter
Wayatt, James
Williams, Carlos
-56

OPHIR LODGE, No. 33 .
Murphy's, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George A. Howard, Master,
Edward Prothero, Senior Warden,
John Manuel, Junior Warden,
Mathew H. Manuel, Treasui;er,
Frank Willis Fisk, Secretary.
Alexander, Paul Clifton
Avery, Morton Peter
Batten, Frederick
Batten, George
Batten, Henry
Bray, Nelson H.
Bunney, John
Cline·, Andrew
Copella, David
Castruccia, Augostine
Davis, James Sydenham C.
Driver, David Barkie, P. M .

MEMBERS:
Darr, Ferdinand
Drake, Edward Thornton
Fisk, Frank Willis
Fischer, John
Garland, Warren Nathaniel, P. M.
Gilmore, John Henry
Harrington, Oscar Daniel
Heard, John Henry, P. M.
.Harris, Henry
Holland, John E.
Howard, George A.
Jenkins, William Henry

55

56

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Lesiza, John
Langford, James T.
Marshall, Frank Benjamin
McQuig, John
Manuel, Mathew Henry
Moran, Thomas John, P. M
McQuig, Alexander May
Mitchler, Frank Alexander, P. M.
Malaspina, Joseph B.
Manuel, John
Manuel, Raymond T.
Malaspina, Antone
Nuner, Charles Glover
Poole, William
Poe, Adam W.
Prothero, Edward
Poe, Edgar Adam
Poe, James Thomas

Ross, Elias Elam
Raggio, Richard
Raggio, Ernest .
Roberts, Owen
Stephens, Benjamin
Stephens, James Moses
Spencer, Wirt Dexter
Schachten, Joseph
Solari, Bastiano
Steinberg, Edward A.
Shannon, James Edward
Schwoever, Emil
True, George Lewis, P. M.
'.l'homas, William, Jr.
True, Edward Lewis
Williams, Hugh Price
Zugar, Archibald
--59

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

r.

OFFICERS:
Silas Montague Puyear, Master,
John Gifford Shaw, Senior Deaco~,
Carl Henry Heilbron, Senior Ward., Peter J. Piepenbrink, Junior Deac.,
John Claus Fredericks, Jun. Ward., Geo. Mifflin Dannals, Marshal,
John Henfrey Simpson, Treasurer, Percy L. Day, Steward,
Eli Tucker Blackmer, Secretary,
J. Edward Powell, Steward
Herbert Anson Croghan, Chaplain, Frank D. Jefferis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ballou, George Henry
Allen, William Wallace
Barnes, Frank Wile
Avey, Lewis Melbourne
Beard, Amos
Armstrong, John Emanuel
Beall, Edward Morse
Arnold, Gilbert Conger, P. M,
Beamer, Peter Walter, P. M.
Asher, Josephus Marion
Belding, Sanford Whitefield
Averbeck, George
Beermaker, George Wilson
Bailey, Walter Josiah
Bennett, Ira Edgar
Baker, George Lawrence
Blackmer, Eli Tucker, P. M.
Baker, Robert Miller
Blackmer, John Keep, P. M.
Baker, Wilbur Sampson
Blochman, Abraham
Baldwin, Hugh John

•
•

Blochman, Lucien A.
Bortzmeyer, John Frederick
Bose, Charles Michael
Bowers, William Wallace, P. M.
Boyd, James Alexander
Bradley, Francis William
Bradt, Horace
;Breese, Robert
Brown, .William B.
Brust, Samuel
Bryan, Solon
Buchan, James Dexter
Budlong, William Edgar, P. M.
Burnell, Barker .
Burnell, William. John
Bushyhead, Edward Wilkinson
CablEr, Albert Nelson
Campbell, Edward Lewis
l,;avalier, John Charles
Chalmers, William Franklin
Christensen, Christian Andreas
Clark, Harry
Clements, Gustavus C.
Cliff, Charles Lee
Colburn, Walter Maurice
Collier, David Charles, Jr.
Comly, Henry Retzer
Conklin, Norman Henry
Croghan, Herbert Anson, P. M.
Dannals, George Mifllin, P. M.
Dauer,· Charles Rudolph
Davidson, Frank Pierce
Davis, Omar Newman
Day, Joshua Davis
Doig, Robert Leeper
Doolittle, Herbert Elliott
Evans, Louis Joseph
Fardelius, Frederick
Fay, William Andrew
Fitch, Herbert R.
Fleming, Thomas Jefferson
Forward, John Tarn
Fos, Willard Newell
Fournier, Ferdinand
Frank, Amos Reed
Frary, Frank Phineas

Fredericks, John Claus
Frevert, William Lewis
Furnald, Frederick Henry Clay
Gilbert, Alfred Hyde, P. M.
Good, Chas. Long
Graham, Melancthon Adam, P. M.
Griffes, James Hartness
Hackett, Samuel Warren
Hadley, Ephraim Wilson
Halstead, William Alexander
Harland, Wilfred Charles
Harper, James Stevenson
Rawson, William
Hearne, Joseph Carter
Heath, James Henry
Heilbron, Carl Henry
Herz, Albert
Hertzel, John Julius
Hinton, John Brundridge
Hizar, Julier Clyde
Hoole, Septimus Frederick
Holbrook, Elliott
Hobzner, Frank Xavier
Horton, Alonzo Erastus
Humphreys, Thomas Henry
Hunt, Nathan
Hylund, Charles John
Jackson, Frederick William
Jefferis, Frank Dodgson
J enkes, Ernest
Johnson, Perle Marion
Johnson, M. Durward
Josselyn, Charles Lewis
Journeay, George
Julian, Archibald Huston
Kindler, Albert
Kent, Lewis Edgar
Kirby, Lewis Reginald William
Klauber, Abraham
Kressmann, Charles Frederick
Laing, Oscar
Lamb, Frank Kari
Lamb, Markolet Richards
Lambert, John Willis
Landis, Harry Melancthon
Leisenring, Peter S.

57

5S

ROSTER.

Lezynsky, Isaac Lesser
Levi, Adolph
Levi, Simon, P. M.
Lewis, Theron Leslie
Little, William Everett
Little, Arthur Gillespie
Long, John Thomas
Loomis, Charles Clark
Louis, Emanuel J., P. M.
Lowe, George Washington·
Lowe, William Olin
Luce, Moses Augustine
Ludington, William French
Lyons, George
MaeGillivray, George Barnett
Maenider, George Francis
MaeNutt, Homer
Marquardt, Hans
McDonald, J. Wade
MeGurek, Edward
McKinley, Robert M., P. M.
MeLure, Louis Steenrod, P. M.
MeWilliams, Joseph Green
Mead, Francis Henry
Mendenhall, Americus Luther
Mertzman, Bernhard Frederick
Middleton, George
Millard, Fordyce Rust
Mills, Edgar Ryder
Morgan, Addison, P. M.
Morgan, William Griffith
Morris, Arthur Adolphus
Morton, Richard Charles
Mossholder, William John, P . M.
Murphy, George Samuel
Nerney, Thomas Alexis
Nieh.ols, James Nelson
Nichols, Nathan Dean
Nystrom, Isadore Axel
Oakley, Nelson Clewell
Osborn, John Burchard, P. M.
Pamperin, Henry
Partridge, Charles William
Peterson, Edward Whitefield
Perrin, Minrod Jonathon, P. M.
Pierce, William Levings, P. M.

Piepenbrink, Peter John
Polhamus, Albert Alexander, P . M.
Powers, Robert Morris
Price, Jacob
Prieto, Joaquin Diaz
Puyear, Silas Montague
Raithel, John Anderson
Rector, Edward Lincoln .
Reed, David Curtis
Reinhardt, Albert Nathen
Remondino, Peter Charles
Rippey, Charles Hendee
Rivers, George Hartford
Ross, Albert Lee .
Ross, Morgan Rinehart
Schimpf, August Rudolph
Schneider, Louie
Scott, De Winton
Scott, Henry Arthur
Scheutze, William l<'rederiek P. M.
Schindler, Robert
Seifert, John Richard
Schaffer, Eugene Ernest
Shaw, Vietor Emanuel
Shaw, John Gifford
Shepherd, Richardson
Shera, James
Simpson, John Henfrey
Smith, Sam Ferry, P. M .
Smith, Joseph Berten
Stabel, Alfred
Stanton, Leon Irenee
Sterne, Charles Embrey
Stocking, Raymond Francis
Stewart, James Thompson
Strickler, John Weaver
Stuart, Edward Bradbury
Swallow, Charles Howell
~wift, John
Swivel, Andrew
Taylor, James Woodbury
Taylor, Harry Scott
Thomas, Albert Arthur
Thomas, Richard Baker
Thomas, William Emerson
Thompson, John Waldo, P. M .

ROSTER.

•

Thompson, Karl John
Thompson, Edwin Ruthvin
Thoustrup, Julius Arendt ·Em\le
Titus, Nat Robert, P. M.
Titus, Harry Lewis
Topping, William Crane
Touchette, Alfred Octave
'1'reahey, Albert Moran
Vernon, Fabius M.
Voeltzel, Daniel
Wadham, James Edward
Wagele, William
Walker, William Thomas
Wangenheim, Julius
Warren, James

59

Waters, Henrv Rober~
Watson, Charles Chau.!lC•'."
Wertheimer, Monroe Al}, Pr1
W eseott, Edward
West, William Henry
Whitney, Edwarrl F.ll~wc1·t.h
Whitson, William Wesley
Willard, Cyrus Field
Williams, Charles Lewis
Wood, Lorin Francis
Woodard, Edwin Adelbert, P. M.
Wootten, John Bennett
Wright, Ralph Leone
Wright, Allen Henry
Young; John Alfred
-236

ST. JOHN'S LODGE, No. 37.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.

......
;

•

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Peter Jenete Chapell, Master,
George Albert Tebbe, Senior Deacon,
Charles Jas. Luttrell, Senior W., }'rank B. Ackerman, Junior Deac.,
Geo. James Walton, Junior Warden, William Buckner Shearer, Marshal,
Maurice Renner, Treasurer,
Peter Many, Steward,
Clifford E. Butler, Secretary,
Ernest George Millbo'u rn, Steward,
James M. Powers, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abshire, Alfred C., P. M.
Cole, Herbert Bailey
Ackerman, Frank Buffum
Cole, Hugh Franklin
Ackerman, Frank Smith
Cooley, John Edward
Beaudry, Fred B.
Crow, William David
Bradley, John Taylor
Davis, Alphonse George Washington
Bull, John Osias
Davis, Henry ·Levi
Butler, Bennet Lafayette
Davis, Jesse Francis
Butler, Clifford Ederiek, P . M.
Diggles, Henry Emit
Butler, George Dexter, P. M.
Ekwall, Alexander
Cash, Harry
Foster, Ellis Jacob
Chambers, George Henry
Freshour, Joseph Frank
Chandler, Elmer Rollo
Freshour, Marion
Chapell, Peter Janette
Freshour, Walter
Churchill, Jerome Perey, P. M.
Griffin, Franklin Robert
Churchill, Jesse Warren
Griswald, Llewellyn D.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

60

Hansen, Christian
Hawkins, Austin
Hoar, William Pancoast
Horn, David Marshall
Jacobs, Gordon Morse
J ohnson1 George H.
Jones Th.omas
Kendall, Edward John
Kennedy, Daniel
Koontz, Henry Newman
Laird, William Thomas
Lee, George
Luttrell, Charles James
Long, James Franklin
Magoffey, John Henry
Many, Peter
Martin, Brice McClendon
Martin, James Buchanan
Mattern, Adelbert Franklin
Mattern, Herman
Mattern, John Hanlon
Mills, Robert McDonnell
Mitchell, Charles Augustus
Mullen, Henry Nelson
Nalley, James Sawyer
Newton, Allen, P • . M.
Newton, Lester Smith
O'Neill, John McCormick, P. M.
O'Shaughnessy, John Francis
Pashburg, John, P. M.
Patterson, Harry Clement
Patterson, Harry Havelock
Powers, James Marcellus
Powers, William Watson

Pyle, Curtis Hooper, P. M.
Rankin, Robert, P. M.
Rankin, Robert Ream
Raynes, Alonzo Emery
Raynes, Herbert Rosborough
Ream, Henry Belden
·
Renner, Maurice
Richardson, James Albert
Richardson, James Buchanan
Richardson, Sidney
Rohrer, James Baptiste
Beheld, Louis Philip, P. M.
Schroeder, John Henry Christopher
Shattuck, Silas
Shearer, William Buckner, P M.
Shoan, Orian Chase
Sleeper, Manasseh, P. M.
Soute, John
Southworth, Thomas Benton
Stevens, Charles Edwin
Stine, John William
Tebbe, George Albert, P. M.
Tebbe, Willinm Edward
Timmons, James Albert
Truitt, George Irwin
Wadsworth, Frederick Elijah, P. M.
Walton, George James
Ward, Kenneth Lester
Wheeler, James Edward, P. M.
Wilcox, William Edward Benton
Williams, Solon Heywood
Wilson, Jeremiah Judson, P. M.
Woodbury, Franklin Isaac
Wright, John Elbert
-98

SANTA CRUZ LO_DGE, No. 38.
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz· County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Caleb Izant, Master,
Perey Arthur Izant, Senior Deac.,
Ralph John Mattison, Senior W., Richard Wm. Drum, Junior Deacon,
Ppihilp Sheridan Curtis, .Junior W., Lawrence Lorenzen, Marshal,
William Clarence Tooze, Treasurer, Charles Devault Hinkle, Steward,
Peter Pierce· Perry, Secretary,
Lloyd, Bowman, Steward,
George Washington Wells, Tyler.

•

•

MEMBERS:
Ferguson, Danie!
Adams, Arthur George
Fischer, Antone
Anderson, Charles Louis
Fitch, Edwin
Angell, Fenner Almerion
Folsom, Cathers Drummond, P. M.
Aldri'ch, Edwin Caleb
Freshour, Joseph Terre
Attaway,-Taylor
Aydelotte, Charles Leon
Gayton, John Avard
Aydelotte, William Mack
Gaukroger, Albert
Baker, Charles George Aldis
Geblu!.rt, Charles Albert
Barnet, Emanuel
Godfrey, Henry Joesph, P. M.
Basey, John Clinton
Griswold, Seldon
Hailey, Frederick Lenwood
Hall, Henry Drescher
Baldwin, · Amos Merritt
Hapgood, Alfred Adams
Baxter, Robert James
Harris, W aymouth
Bell, William Lisle
Hezelton, Harry Raleigh
Bias, Harry James
Heathcote, G. Prince Monpessen
Bias, William Henry ·
Hobert, Edgar
Bilodeau, John Henry
Heard, Edwin Clyde
Bowman, Edward
Hinkle, Charles Devault
Briggs, Herbert Fisk
Hoffman, Frank Joseph
Brooks, Joseph Terry
Horton, Roy Dolan
Brown, William
Hotchkiss, Marshall Edgar
Burdick, Charles Huntington
Izant, Bertram Howard, P. M.
Byrne, Walter Charles
Izant, Percy Arthur
Cardwell, Edward
Izant, William Caleb
Carter, Harry Lewis .
Johnson, Walter Lloyd, P. M.
Chase, John Rufus
Jonas, Joseph Lewin
Chamberlin, Marcus Philander
Jones, Albert
Clouette, William Isaie
Gorgensen, Gorgen
Coblentz, Felix
Keck, William Hugus
Cohen, Aron
Kelsey, Edward Albert
Cooper, Harry Clay
Kimball, Charles Augustus
Congdon, Willis Rollin
Kirkpatrick, Charles Th9mas
Cox, Alison Alberti ·
Krebs, Julius Caesar
Cox, Herbert Every, P. M.
Kron, Henry Frederick
Curtis, Philip Sheridan
Kruger, Charles Herman
Dake, Lawrence John
Lemiux, Louis
Daves, Arthur Lawrencll'
Lincoln, Orlando Jay
Drennan, Ryland
Linscott, Harry Arlin
Drullard, Thompson Wilson, P. }YI· Linscott, John William, P. M.
Drum, Richard William
Lloyd, Benjamin
Ely, Frank William
Lorenzen, Caby
Ely, William
Lore,.nzen, George
Emminger, Daniel David
Lorenzen, Lawrence
Ennor, John Martin
Lucas; Frederick William, P. M.
Esty, Jarvis Duncan
Lucas, Harry Clifford

62

ROSTER.

Lundy, Edwin Arthur
Makinney, Hampton Emmet
Martin, Charles Christopher
Markle, Robert Bruce
Mason, Louis Tracy
Matison, Frank, P. M.,
Mattison, Ralph John
McCreary, Edward Davis
McCreary, Josiah Winans
McCreary, Thomas Guy, P. M.
McNair, James
Meadows, Charles Richmond
Menefee, Frank George
Middleton, Edward August
Middleton, Henry Louis
Mike, Joseph Andrew
Moore, William St. Clair Demitte
Moulton, John Bisbee
Mosher, Nelson
Napier, Robert Graham
Oliver, William
Olsen, Peter Sophus
Perry, Peter Pierce, P. M.
Peterson, Henry Caesar
Pettit, Jobe Edward
Philbrook, Edgar Brayton
.Picknell, Stanley Gates
Pioda; Louis Emelio W.
Plancich, Nicholas Antonia
Plant, Benjamin Anthony, P . M.
Porter; George Keating, P. M.
Powell, Rolla
Pratchner, George Charles
Pratchn.er, William Wells
Prouty, Frederick Raymond
Putnam, Marvin Edgerton
Randall, Horace
Read, William Miles
Rostron, George Henry, P. M .

ROSTER.

Roy, James Mauris
Russell, William
Schroeder, Charles
Severio, John, P. M.
Shippy, William Delos
Smith, Lucas Flattery
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Snyder, Henry Francis
Soper, John
Springer, Paul Eugene
Springer, Ralph Chesebro
Springer, Wilson Riley
Staubes, Charles
Sterns, _Frank Wilcox
Steen, Jacob
Stevens, Frederick Lawrence
Still, Arthur .
Still, Herbert Charles, P. M
Sutton, John Burton
Swanton, Albion Paris
'!'abler, Charles Marvin
Taylor, John Alexander, P. M.
Tain ton, Edgar Milsted
Tenney, Henry Dergin
Thayer, Truman Ransom
'rooze, · William Clai:ence
Trezona, Charles Ernest
Trout, Daniel Hawk
Twist, John Parker
Wanzer, Harry Snyder
Webster, Mark
West, Edward Swift, P. M ,
Wells, George Washington
Willey, Henry
Williams, Edward Lawrence
Willis, Ellery
Woodard, Lester
'Vood, Walace, Percival
Zealear, Samuel Francis

-168

63

YUBA LODGE, No. 39.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Abram Walter Lewis, Master,
Arthur Garfield Lewis, Senior Deac.,
Ed. Aug. Cunningham, Senior W., Emanuel Carl Souza, Junior Deacon,
Ivory Edgar Wallis, Junior Ward., John Charles Lumbard, Marshal,
Peter Engel, Treasurer
Matthew Thomas Featherly, Stew'd,
James Fred Eastman, Secretary,
Edward J. Donnalley, Steward,
Edgar 'Iaber, Tyler.

.

•

MEMBERS:,
Arp, Henry
Lewis, Abram Walter
Ayer, Leonard Barnard
Lewis, Arthur Garfield
Baldwin, George Bellen
Lipp, Albert Powell
Barr, James Holmes
Logan, Anderson Dabney
Belcher, Richard
Lumbard, John Charles
Bendel, Herman Stockman
Malloch, Henry
Bevan, Richard Edwin
McClintock, William
Binney, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Meek, Emerson Emmet
Boulton, Emison Allen
Menz, Albert John Schrieber
Brittan, Mark Thomas
Menz, Albert Julius
Brown, Howard Leroy
Millar, Robert
Carpenter, William Edward
Moffitt, John Andrew
Covilland, Charles Julien
Monnet, Fred Lewis
Cunningham, Edward Augustus
Moon, Benjamin
Davis, Edwin Amenzo
Moors, Frank Bennett
Eastman, James Fred
Mote, Jesse Frampton
Engel, Peter
Newbert, Lee Hamilton
Ewell, Samuel
Norton, Paul
Fenwick, William Arthur
Patterson, Charles Milton, P. M.
Featherly, Mathew Thomas
Peffer, John
Fisher, Amos
Potter, Frank W., P. M.
Foster, John Rupert, P. M.
Powell, David, P. M.
French, Wheeler Desting
Raisch, Charles, P. M.
Frey, Frank Edward
Redmond, William
Fuller, Jesse Beech, P. M.
Rogers, John Belcher
Gianella, Vicenzo
Rubel, Charles Christopher
Gribner, George Thomas
Sheldon, Frederick William
Hall, George William, P. M.
Single, Joseph Henry
Henn, William Theophilus, P. M.
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Hutchins, John Sullivan, P. M.
Slingsby, William
Hutchins, .Gavin Walker
Souza, Emanuel Carl
King, Henry Dietrich, P. M.
Stone, Charles E., P. M.
Knaugh, Joshua
Steel, Thomas Hugh, P. M.

ROSTER.

64
Stone, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Stokes, Guy Heancastle, P. M.
St. John, Enos Frost
Suggett, Allen Holman, P. M.
Sutliff, George Warren
Sutliff, Bruce Hare

R,OSTER.

Swift, Sidney Bourne
Taber, Edgar
Thom, David, Jr.
Wallis, Ivory Edgar
Wheelock, John Dexter

-77

SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40.
Sacramento, S~cramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Wallace Mott, Sr., Master, Nicholas Joseph Hullin, Senior D.,
George Combs Bassett, ;3enior W., Delos Sumner Watkins, Junior D.,
George Nesbitt Cook, Junior Ward., Frank Tade, Marshal,
William Monroe Petrie, Treasurer, William Edward Appleton, Steward,
Richard Cutrer Irvine, Secretary,
Cornelius Philander Bandy, Steward,
Clarence Todd Clark, Chaplain,
Thomas Ross, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Acock, Thomas LaFayette
Briggs, William Ellery
Andrew, Adam
Brown, John Pemper
Anderson, Joseph Maurice
Brusch, Charles Henry
Atkinson, Edmund Clement, P. G. M.Bugby, Benjamin Norton, P. M.
Atkinson, Edmund Mansfield
Burdick, Joseph
Atkinson, Foster Lincoln
Burr, Richard Palmer, P. M.
Atkinson, Frank Freeman
Camp, James Glasby
Appleton, William Edward
Capen, George Ashley
Bandy, Cornelius Philander
Carroll, Harry Montfort
Bassett, George Combs
Charter, Earl Davis
Bassett, William Walter
Christie, ·Isaac
Barmby, John Trever
Clark George Harvey
Basler, Charles M\Lrtin
Clay, Ammon
Bates, Hugh Rolan.:.
Colburn, James A.
Bidwell, Frank J., P. M.
Cook, George Nesbit
Beard, Marshall Rowles
Cook, Hiram
Blair, John Newell, P. M.
Cothrin, William Kip
Blake, Charles Tyler
Craig, James
Boyd, John Walter, P. M.
Curtis, Melancthon John, P. M.
Boyd, Thomas
Curtis, William Albert
Bragg, Charles Lourin
Darling, Henry Job
Bragg, Henry William
Denham, James. Flemming.
Brand, George Sumner
Dierssen, George Ernest Augustus

Dolan, Patrick Charles
Dunn, George
Ellis, Charles Joshua
Everett, Walter Wyncoop
Fairbanks, Herbert August
Farr, David
Finnie, Robert Dryden
Fi!jh, Alfred Lafayett
Flt-ming, Frank
Fowler, Ezra Schoales
Fraser, John David
Frazier, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Giffen, James Buchanan, P. M.
Gillis, Dugald
Given, John Ely
Grant, Duncan
Green, John Albert
Green, John Harry
Guth, Joseph
Hack, Hen·ry Leonard
Hageley, John
Hale, Evert Wilburn
Hale, Marshal
Hale, Prentiss Cobb
Hale, Reuben Brooks
Hammer, Mosheim Schmucker
Harkness, Frank
Harmon, Rufus Burnham, P. M.
Hat<)h, Wilber Mark
Hayes, George William
Heath, Josiah Rich
Hoen, Ernest Martin
Holbrook, Charles
Holmes, George Albert"
Hopkins, Edwin Carmi
Hornlein, Hugo August
Hornlein, Max Edward
Hughes, Joseph Wilcoxson, P. M.
Hullin, Nicholas Joseph
Humphrey, Anthony Boyd
Hunt, John Alexander
Ilgner, Charles William, P. M.
Irvine, Richard Cutrer, P . M.
Johnson, Joseph William
Johnson, Julian Workman
Johnston, John Wesley
5

6-5

Jones, Perry Evert
Jordan, Louie Ernest Clark
King, John, P. M.
Kleinsorge, Albert Frederick
Kleinsorge, Henry Emil
Kleinsorge, William Edward, P. M .
Knights, William Durrant, P. M.
Knights, William Rudd
Kyle, Alexander
Lane, George William
Larkin, William Henry
LaRue, Hugh McElroy
Lawson, Powell Samuel, P. M.
Locke, George Washington
Lucas, James Franklin
MacDonald, John Alexander
Madison, William John
Maehn, William Julius
Mathews, Charles James
Mayo, Joseph Ely
McDonald, William Lowell
McKelvey, Charles
McKim, Samu el Warder
McLean, Duncan
Miller, Arthur Eugene
Miller, Dwight Henry
Miller, Frederick Walton Winston
Miller, John G.
Molter, Jacob Philip
Morgan, Earl Ralph
Morris, Edward
Morris, James
Morton, Charles Wardle
Mott, William Wallace, Sr.
Mott, William Wallace, Jr.
Mull, Archibald Harrison
Nash, Hiram DeWitt
Newbert, William Edmond
Nicholas, James Stuart
Nichols,. Arthur Lombard
Olney, Cephas Charles
Olsen, Oscar Franci;
O'Neil, James, P. M .
Ostrander, Charles Edward
Payen, Louis
Pepper, Charles Smith

66

Perkins, Charles Calley
Stevens, Eugene Noyes
Stevenson, Robert Bruce
Petrie, William Monroe, P. M.
Stubbs, Charles Russell .
Phillips, George
Summers, Harry Sinclair
Phipps, Charles Edward
Tade, Frank, P. M.
Porter, Clive William
Prideaux, Richard Blight, P. M.
Thorp, Harry
Quirin, Frank Jacob
Turton, William
Read, Herbert Alfred James
Vaughan, Richard
Read, John Adderson
Vaughan, William Edwin
Reeves, John Wesley
Waggoner, Reel Holloway, P. M.
Reith, John
Watkins, Delos Sumner
Rideout, Benjamin Norman
Warren, William C.
Ross, Thomas .
Weil, Ed.ward Adolph
Ruedy, John
Weinstock, Harris
Russell, John Leslie
Wendt, Gustav Adolph
Saunders, Joseph William
Wiard, William Frederick, P . M.
Schaw, William
Williams, Austin Daniel
Schwoerer, Louis Martin
Willis, William Ladd
Schonefelt, William Domer
Willis, Evander Berry, P. M.
Seymour, Arthur McArthur, P. M. Wilson, William
Smith, Harry Anthony
Winterburn, George Howard, P. M.
Stephenson, Harley Howard, P. M. Wood, William
Stephenson, William Albert
Woodruff, David N..
-184

...

MARTINEZ LODGE, No. 41.
Martinez, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Alanson Hale; Master,
Charles Elnor. Mowdy, Senior Deac.,
Randal Hubert Latimer, Sel!-ior W., Richard Henry Ingraham, Junior D.,
James Wm. McClellan, Junior W., Alvin Brice Wilson, Marshal,
Robert Burns Borland, Treasurer,
Martin William Joost; Steward,
Orville Eugene Hayward, Secretary, Conrad Oscar Nelson, Steward,
Eugene Warren Stoddard, Chaplain, George Smith Overfield, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Austin, Ainos E.
Blum, Gabriel
Alverado, Henry.Victor, P. M.
Blum, Albert Edward
Buttner, Louis Napoleon, P. M.
Blum, Max
Baumann, George Edward
Blum, Simon
Baldwin, Barry
Borland, Robert Burns
· Bandett, Joseph
Boyd, John Wheaton

67

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

•

•

Babel, William
Brooks, Frederick Sheridan
Bibber, Charles Edward
Carter, George Edward
Chatfield, Norman
Coleman, Arthur Burr
Coleman, Harry Lander
Collins, John Samuel
Copistake, Fred Archibald
Canfield, Willis Lee
Carothers, James Henry
Grilley, Sidney
Carpenter, Alexander
Douglas, William John, P. M.
Iiifferding, Henry
Duffy, William Joseph
Edwards, Hugh Pugh, P. M.
Edmunds, George Herbert
Eagar, Thomas Chester
, Fassett, William
Fernandes, Bernard
Field, William A.
Fish, Charles Stanley
Fogelstrom, Walter John
Fraser, Ruben Alexander
Guy, John William
Gorden, Ernest
Hale, William Alvin
Hale, Ruben Lyon
Hewett, Amos Lorenzo
Hayward, Orville Eugene
Hickman, Charles Clark
Hough, William Jerome
Hammatt, William Cushing
Haskell, August Story
.Ipswitch, George
Ingraham, Richard H.
Jones, Madison Ralph
Jacobs, Samuel Beer
Jaquith, William Clark
Jamieson, William
Joost, Martin William
Jones, John Davies
King, Guilford Dudley

Kelly, Samuel Colter
Lucas, John Goncoloes
Latimer, Randal Hubert
Lyford, George Henry
Lee, Richard Bee
McClellan, James William
McLeod, Edward, P. M.
Muir,.John Crunna
Matheson, William
Mowdy, Charles Elnor
Neustaedter, Michaelis
Neustaedter, Bernard
Nelson, Conrad Oscar
Neff, Felix Francis
Overfield, George Smith
Overfield, Henry Dunicl!-ke
Pasch, Elias
Pavolini, Anthony
Peterson, John Emil
Powell, Thomas
Rhine, Charles
Rhine, Jacob
Rodgers, Bloomfield Balton
Riley, Jahiel Stackhouse
Stoddard, Eugene Warren, P. M.
Schall, Feredrick Charles
Sedgwick, Benjamin
Shepman, William Joseph
Sherman, George Atwood, P. M.
Stemkellner, Thomas Joseph
Sickal, Marcus Theodore
Smith, Otto Kasper
Tinning, William S.
Thissen, Charles Willis
Ulsh, Ruben Leonard, P. M.
Varney, Thomas Howard
Wilson, Alvin Brice, P. M.
Wells, William Sewell, P. G. M.
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Williams, Anthony
Witte'nmyer, John Lewis
Wittenmyer, Lucerne A.
Wolcott, William Milton
. -99
0

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

LOS ANGELES LODGE, No. 42.
Los Angeles. Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ashton Albert Wells, Master,
Elmer Hiner, Senior Deacon,
Leo Wise Barnett, Senior Warden, Morris Harry Goldsten, Junior D.,
Joseph Oscar Downing, Junior W., Alfred Clark, Jr., Marshal,
Wyndham Bennett Brain, Treasurer, Albert Humboldt Johnston, Steward,
Morris Klein, Secretary,
Elmer Moses Starr, Steward,
Abraham Wolf Edelman, Chaplain, Edward Hall Miller, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Buisseret, Alfred Paul
Adloff, Jacob
Andersen, Carl
Bushnell, John Brown
Anderson, John Henry
Cahen, Simon, P. M.
Asher, Ralph
Campbell, Robert
Baida, Nicolas Gabriel
Campbell, John Henry
Bainer, Andrew Meickle
Campbell, Robert Mackenzie
Baldy, Alexander Jordan
Carbone, Louis
Barnett, William Theodore
Carlson, Gustap Emil
Barnett, Leo Wise
Cauvin, Robert Steger
Bayha, George Gottlob
Chiapella, Edward Emile
Bayha, Maximillian
Choate, James Jefferson
Behr.endt, Caspar
Clark, Thomas Brainerd
Bell, John
Clark, Alfred, Jr.
Bergh, Hans
Clayton, George Louie
Bernhard, Gustav Adolph George
Cline, John Casper
Biescar, Henry
Cohn, Elias
Biescar, Joseph
Cohn, Kaspare
Biescar1 George
Cohn, Max
Bille, Marcello
Colburn, Edgar Leonard
Blind, Philip
Colling, Benjamin
Blumenberg, Samuel Purdy
Cooksey, Job Emit
Blum, Jules
Conzelman, Charles Emanuel
Borba, Mamuel
Cooper, Alfred
Braun, Henry
Cooper, George .J ohn
Brn:uer, Frederick
Curry, William Edward
Bragg, Ansel Melen, P. M.
Daniels, Albert Julius
Brain, Wyndham Bennett
Davies, Floyd Ernest
Brown, Walter William
Dawson, Douglas
Buffum, William Mansfield
Defty, William Emanuel
Burns, James Franklin, P. M.
Dietze, Curt Paul
Burkhardt, Adolph
Dilly, Alfred Lackman
Burckell, Leon Albert
Downing, William Collins
Burg, Oscar J eorgen William
Downing, Joseph Oscar

•

•

..

•

Dryden, Guy Frank
Dujmovich, Matteo Cosmo
Ecclestone, Charles Vollum, P. M.
Eckhart, Joseph
Edelman, Abraham Wolf, P. M.
Edelman, Abram Moses, P. M.
Edgar, Clarence William
Eichholz, Philip
Elsner, Emanuel
Ernst, Henry Picket
Evans, David P.
Eyrand, Emanuel
Faerber, William
Fallon, Frank Lorence .
Finley, Charles Howard
Fischer, Aloia
Fisher, John
Fricke, William Charles
Friegel, Fred G.
Fraser, Alexander
Gaffey, John Tracy
Gehrkens, William Henry
Germain, Edward
Germain, Eugene
Gillett, Edgar W.
Gillespie, Frank
Glass, John Malcolm
Glascock, William Asa
Goldschmidt, Hugo
fu>ldschmidt, Marcus
Goldschmidt, Herman Hirsch
Goldsten, Joseph Cohen
Goldsten, Morris Harry
Goldsworthy, Frank William
Goldsworthy, John, P. M.
Goldsworthy, John James
Gollmer, Charles
Golter, Edward
Gotthelf, David
Gotthelf, Aaron Solem
Graf, Siegfried
Graham, Angus, Jr.
Graham, Angus
Griffiths, Thomas
Griffith, John McKim
Griggs, William Francis

69

Uross, Frederick
Guenther, John Adolph
Hamilton, Edwin Smyth
Hanscom, Lewis P.
Hartman, David
Hartnack, John Charles
Hauch, Isaac
Hauerwaas, John A.
Hein, Jacob
Heitchew, Abraham S.
Hellman, James Wolf
Hellman, Isaias William
Hiner, Elmer
Hirsh, Dave
Hoffman, William Michael
Holbrook, Frederick William
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Horen, Edwin
Hubbard, Oliver Clark
Hughes, John Rowland
Hyatt, William David
Iaeger, Louis John Frederick
Illich, John
Jameso11, Wal~er
Jauch, Joseph Wilhelm
Jeffries, William Thomas
Johnston, Albert Humboldt
Joyce, Thomas Francis
Johnson, Frank A.
Julian, Edward Gustave
Kelly, Daniel Joseph
King, John, P. M.
Kingsbaker, Benjamin
Klein, Julius S.
Klein, Morris, P. M.
Klein, Adolph
Krempel, Christian
Krempel, John Paul
Krohn, Henry George
Lane, Frank Joesph
Last, John Ludwig Adolph
Last, Carl Frederick August, P. M.
Langbein, Ernest Leslie
Leo, John
Leonie, Jean Baptiste
Leithead, Hiram Hyde

70
Levy, Elie Julius
LEivy, Felix
Levy, Ralph Amite
Llewellyn, William
Longuevan, Joseph Beauregard
Maeder, Alfred Gottlob, P. M.
Maeder, Henry Julius
Magnus, Selmar
Maier, Simon
Maier, Joseph Frederick, P. M.
Marx, Abraham, P. M.
Martin, Carl William
Masae, Harry Will
Masae, Theophilus
Mayor, Frank William
McDowell, James
Mcinnis, August G.
McLeod, Simon
Mcstay, Walter Milton
Mehr, George
Melezer, Joseph
Merritt, Elmer Philip
Meuschke, Edward Herman
Meyer, William Aimee. Bernhardt
Michelsen, George
Middleton, Frank Elmer
Miller, Edward Hall
Miller, Harry Crow
Miller, Carl Gregg, P. M.
Miller, Joseph
Mittendorf, Louis Ernest
Mitton, Benjamin Russell
Moir, Frank
Moore, Walter Scott
Moore, James Lloyd
Morris, Julius Louis
Muswick, Max Fred
N elson, Alexander Philip
Newmark, Harris
Newmark, Max Nathan
Noel, James
Northmore, Emanuel Richard
Norton, Moses
Norton, Isaac
Norton, Isaac Henry
Odenthal, Hubert

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Oder, Heinrich Johannes Ernst
Pamueina, Mitchel
Pattillo, James Nelson
Paulson, Paul
Peek, Thomas Charles
Philbin, John Andrew
Platt, Francis Edward
Platt, J ease
Pra~er, Samuel, P. M.
Prager, Charles, P. M.
Preston, William Herman Frank B.
Rademacher, Frank, P. M.
Raphael, Robert Herman
Ramsay, Lewis Penoyer
Redican, Bernard
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Rosin, Benjamin
Roth, Edmond
Roth, Max
Rudolph, Ernest Louis William
Ruoff, Albert
Rutz, George Adam
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Satter, Anton
Scheerer, Conrad
Schlesinger, Jacob
Schone, John
Schrein, Joseph Martin
Seebold, Alexander Humboldt
Shaw, Thomas William
Shaug, Williii.m Bradford
Singer, Joseph
Skinner, James
Slotterbeek, Harry Walter
Smith, Benjamin Franklin Porter
Smith, James
Smith, Arthur Garfield
Solomon, John B.
Spear, Joseph
Specht; Joseph Christian
Spengler, Philip
Staben, Emil Ernst
Stanton, Edwin
Starr, Elmer Moses
Stewart, James Watson
Stern, Emanuel Lionel

Stoecklin, Arnold Joseph
Strohm, Thomas, P. M.
Sullans, Charles Clinton
Summerland, Theodore
Sunderland, Joseph
Switzer, Commodore Perry
Taylor, Clarence John
Thurner, Gottlob Adolf
Theobald, Vietor Hugo
Tileston, William Lount
Todd, Robert Asa
Vansyckle, George Warne
Vanneman, Albert Walter
Vest, Joseph Leroy
Vogel, Herman Oscar
Wagner, William James
Watts, William Lord
Weidner, Peter
W einsveig, Mikel

•

71

Weisberger, Sam
Wells, Ashton Albert
Wenzlow, Frederick William
W eyse, Rudolph Guenther
Wharton, Mesech
Whiting, Perry
Williams, George A.
Wirtz, Rudolph
Wise, Walter Dorsett, P. M.
Witkind, Simon
Wolff, Bernhard
Wolff, Isaac
Wolff, Louis Gottlieb
Woodbury, Edward
Worden, Herbert Bairsto
Woollaeott, Henry John
Yapp, Frederick George
Yarrow, George Walter
Young, Albert Brooks
-288

HIRAM LODGE, No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No. Certificate.

•

•

MEMBERS:
Harvey, George Washington
Burdis, John, P. M.
Hubbard, Lucious Samuel
Briggs, Lewis Madison
Hill, Grant
Bennett, Damascus, P. M.
McKenzie, William Burgess
Berry, Reuben Kelley
Miller, Daniel Peter
Brown, Edward Vietor Daniel
Morebeek, Theodore Charles
Bidstrup, Ferdinand Theodore
Moore, William Jefferson
Cantrell, Coswell Clay
Salmon, George Washington
Corsey, Malon Snyder
Skinner, William Henry
Coblentz, Cerf
Staples, Alpheus Dow
Coblentz, David
Stone, Edward
Duthmann, Gerhard Heinrich
Warf, Andrew Jackson, P . M.
Fisher, John Adolphus, P. M.
Yeadon, William
Frazier, John Edwin
-27
Griffin; Earl Van Dorn

72

ROS'l'ER.

ROSTER.

MOUNT MORIAH LODGE, No. 44.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Henry Dolling, Master,
George McLean, Senior Deacon,
Clarence Erikson, Senior Warden, Charles McKerral Lindsay, Jun. D.
Geo. Washington Haberly, Jun. W., August Altenberg, Marshal,
John Frederick Schroth, Treasurer, Edmund Tauszky, Steward,
Theodore Frolich, Secretary,
Hermann Muller Ho11dley, Steward,
Herbert Foster Ward, Chaplain,
John D 'Arey, Tyler.

MEMBERS: .
Adam, Herman
Boyd, Frank
Adler, Adolph
Boyd, Frank Fishbourne
Altenburg, August
Boyer, William Edward, P. M.
Ames, Frank Holmes
Bradley, John Samuel
Amee, Frank Mortimer
Bredhoff, Charles Martin
Amey, George Henry
Burke, Edmund William
Anderson, Alfred Henry
Burke, William Gordon
Anderson, Carl Alfred
Bury, Valentine Ryder
Anderson, Charles Jamee
Bush, Hyman Philip
Anderson, Marquitt
Calden, Guy Chester
Anderson, Otto Evart
Calvin, William Henry
Anderson, Sterling
Campbell, Sterling Kindall
Andrews, Thomae Patrick
Caswell, George William
Anthony, Herbert Mills
Cevasco, Giovanni Battista
Applegate, George Brenton
Chase, Nathaniel Linton
Baker, Charles Arnold
Chamberlain, Aaron Lewie, P . M.
Barbat, William Benjamin Franklin Chaesagne, Leon
Barnard, Frank
Cochran, James Henry
Barnett, Harry
Cohl, Morris
Barry, Edgar Stephen
Conmy, Thomas Cherry, P. M .
Batchelder, Nathan Prescott
Cornwall, Frank
Beattie, John Wilson Cox
Cranmer, Fred
Bell, Joseph Vincent
Crittenden, Joseph Lambert, P. M.
Belz, Johannes
Cunningham, Thomas Stanley
Bemis, Charles Cook
Currier, Amos
Benson, Nils Peter
Davies, Ezekiel William
Bergen, Alexander
Davie, David
Bergerot, Pierre Alexander
Davie, Henry Laurens
Bernhart, Peter Daniel
Davie, John Warner
Bernstein, Max
Davis, Morrie White
Bernstein, Philip
Demartini, Frank Jerome
Beetandig, Max
Dennie, Samuel William
Bouteiller, Eugel).e Louie
Dickson, Robert Alexander

•

Diers, Peter Matthias
Diez, Gaetor Cayetano
Dixon, John Meneely
Dixon, Randall McDonald
Dixon, William Jqhn
Dolling, William Henry
Dondero, Charles
Donovan, Allen Ward
Doolittle, William Gorham, P M.
Eaton, Frederick Ward
Eberhart, Adolph, P. M . .
Ellery, Epes
Ellison, Thomae
Erikson, Clarence
Erken, Charles Henry
E~tola, Joseph Frederick
Etienne, E~ile
Etienne, Victor, Jr.
Everett, Daniel Henry, P. M .
Figel, Joseph
Fischer, Oscar
Fish, George Lewie
Flynn, Thomas Emmett
Focha, William Francie
Ford, Campbell
Fredrickson, Hans Gustav
Freeman, Elisha
Freiermuth, George Henry
Friedman, Harry William
Frolich, Theodore, P. M.
Geist, William
Gerrane, Henry William
Gilbert, George Shoebridge
Gilman, Samuel Walter
Goldberg,. Jacob
Gordan, Jacob
Grant, George Simpson
Gruver, Charles Silvamoius
Gunderson, Severin Tobias
Gunn, William John
Haberly, George Washington
Hacke, William Conrad, P. M.
Halsted, Eminel Potter
Harper, Fred Fogg Gale
Harris, Thomas V oel
Harehall, Gustav

Hart, Oscar Herman
Harvey, William Alonzo
Hatteroth, William Henry Carl
Haughy, Jamee Clarkson
Hauser, Albert Maria
Haussler, Frederick Otto
Havisiqe, Harry Thomas
Healey, William Wilford
Hennings, John Henry Marius
Henrickson, Olaus
Henry, Carl Albert
Herbst, Herschel Herman
Herrguth, Frank Peter
Hertlein, Henry
Heyneman, Herman
Hiett, Julius SylvP.ster
Highton, Heiiry Edward
Hill, Edwin Potter
Hilmer, Frank Ernest
Hilmer, Fred Louie
Hjul, Christian Hansen
Hoadley, Hermann. Muller
Hodgen, Joseph Dupuy
Holladay, Samuel Wirt
Holmes, Charles Stewart
Holmes, James Gilmour
Horstmann, William John
Hyde, Alexander
Hyman, Presley Corbin
Irving, Samuel
Israel, Arthur Clarence
Jackson, Howard Randall
Jacobs, Albert
Jacobs, Albert Pocorny
Jacobs, Arthur Felton
Jar.obs, Henry
J enkel, John Rudolph August
Jens, Joh:ii. Charles, P. M.
Johnson, Otto John Henry
Jones, George Edward
Jorgensen, Lawrence
Kato, Frans Ludwig
Kelly, John
Kerr, John
Kimball, John Albion
Kimball, John Carpenter, P . M.

73

74

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Newell, Joesph
King, William Russell
Newhouse, William Gerhart
Klein, Frederick Wilhelm
Newman, Charles Bleistein
Krone, Carl Antone
Nicholson, William Drake
Krone, Frederick Wilhelm
Nicol, James
Krone, Frederick William, .Jr.
Nilsson, Nils Axel
Lander, Charles John
Nixon, Thomas
Lascy, Frank Howard
Normand, Emile Henri
Lebenbaum, Louis
Lemmermann, John Hermann HenryO 'Connell, Thomas
Ohnstein, Oscar Julius Emil Eugene
Lenoir, Emile
Levy, Herman
Olson, Bent
Olsson, John Olof
Lillie, Augustus Seabury
Lindsay, Charles McKerral
Osborn, Corra Mahlon
Lindsay, Tb.omas
Ott, Michael George
Linne, John Conrad
Packer, James, Jr.
Lippman, George W.
Palmer, Henry
Lippman, Joseph, P. M.
Parker, David Stout
Louderback, Davis, P. M.
Pasquale, Henry Camille
Lutley, Edward
Pearce, William
MacFarland, John
Pels, Louis Edward
Maguire, Eugene Burns
Petersen, Andrew
Mason, Edward William
Phillips, William Edward
Mathews, Harvey, P. M.
Post, Ernest Mortimor
Mathewson, Clifford Earl
Price, Benjamin Tydfil
McCallan, John
Price, Thomas
McCaw, William Nassau
Raabe, Charles Edward
McDaniel, Willard
Raabe, Frederick Otto
McGuire, James
Radston, George
McKay, William
Radston, Julius
McKellar, John
Rankin, Augustus Hermance
McLaughlin, Michael
Rawe, John Henry
McLean, George
Read, John Henry
McLean, John
Richards, David Mathews, P. M.
McNab, James
Richards, Harry Griffin
Menzel, William
Richards, John David
Merrill, Isaac McGaw
Roberts, Joseph Lazarus
Merry, Thomas
Robbins, Ethel Alvin
Meyer, Marcus Cauffman
Rolls, John Sellers
Moller, Heinrich
Rossbach, Charles Henry
Montealegre, Carlos Francisco
Rosskamp, Hermann
Morrison, James Renshaw
Scheer, Gustavus Adolphus
Schlesinger, Bert
Nagel, Carl Siegfried Gunther
Nagle, Charles Grant
Schloss, Benjamin
Nash, Jay Thomas
Schmalzlen, William
Schmidt, Valentine
Nelson, Alexander
Nelson, James Henry
Schmitt, Adam Albert

•

Schoenfeld, David Charles
Schroth, Charles Albert
Schroth, John Frederick, P. M.
Schubert, Hugo George
Schulenburg, Adolph
Seibel, Frederick Lacey
Seibel, Philipp
Seiler, Adolph Paul
Seiler, Paul G. Adolphus, P. M.
Sheldner, Philip
Shafer, Henry
Siebs, John Henry
Sladky, Josef Adam
Smith, Herbert Le Baron
Smith, John Henry
Smith, Samuel Burriss
Smits, Henry Aldegondus Joseph
Sorensen, Charles
Soulier, Joseph
Spencer, Frank Aaron
Springett, Arthur Alfred
Stark, William Henderson
Steinman, Bernard
Stewart, Thomas Henry, Jr .
Straus, Auguste Lazar
Sweeney, John Joseph
Tauszky, Edmund
Thompson, Nathaniel
.T illman, Leopold
Todd, James Howard
Toohey, Cornelius

75

Travers, Charles Stevens
Trobock, Bartholomew Nicholas
Trudgett, Robert Davis
Turner, George Angell
Usher, William Henry
Vaen"berg, Abraham
VanSicklen, Frederick Wetherbee
Vensano, Harry Chittenden
Vogler, Albert John Henry
Wagstaff, Thomas Hamlet
Walker, David Edward
Walley, Emil Engelberth
Wallman, Bodo Andrew
W allmann, Johann GordQn
Walters, John Franklin
Ward, Herbert Fost'er, P. M.
Warriner, Frank Terry
Webster, Charles John
Weidman, George Elias
Whearty, Peter Francis
Whitcomb, Frank Randolph, P. M.
Wikander, John
Wilkie, Alfred John Rigby
Wilson, David
Wilson, Endoras Joseph
Witt, Julius
Wolff, William
Woodside, Alexander, P. M
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Wulzen, Frederick George
--312
Zion, Edwin Ray

CRESCENT LODGE, No. 45.
Crescent City, Del Norte County.
Stated :Meetings, second Monday in each month.

.

OFFICERS:
Chester Edwin Cutting, Master,
Orrin Dudley, Senior Deacon,
Phylander L. Elwell, Senior Ward., Walter James Jones, Junior Deacon,
George W. Manley, Junior Warden, Thomas George Martin, Marshal,
Jacob Marhoffer, Treasurer,
George Curtis Walton, Steward,
Greenleaf Curtis, Secretary,
Daniel Cassidy Peveler, Steward,
Drury White Rice, Tyler .

76

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Martin, Thomas George
Anderson, Frank Levi
Manly, George Winfield
Adams, Michael
Barnebury, Abraham Aaron
Morris, Samuel
Beam, John Daniel
McLaren, Willie Washington
Beacom, Charles Wakfield
McLaurin, Douglas Cameron
Benson, James
McVey, Joseph Hutson
Bowman, James Pierre
McVey, Samuel Hutson
Brooking, James
Nelson, Charles
Browne, Augustus Frank, P. M.
Nichols, William Lucius
Childs, John Leon
Peveler, Peter Henry
Crusins, Frank
Peveler, John Randolph
Crook, Theron Webster
Peveler, Daniel Cassidy
Crook, Asa Hamilton
Rice, Drury White, P. M.
Curtis, Greenleaf, P. ~.
Rice, Charles Edgar
Cutler, Fletcher Arnold
Rea, Daniel
Cutting, Chester Edwin
• Reynolds, Harry Clendenin
Dingle, Rueben Raimond
Sands, John Austin
Dudley, Orrin
Sartwell, Dugal Stewart
Duly, West
Shirley, Jedidiah William
Edwards, Hugh Jones
Snavely, John Wesley
Elwell, Phylander Leighton
Stevens, Philip
Frame, Franklin Perry
Stone, Bertram, P. M.
Gutch, Herman August
Schwartz, William John
Hamilton, William Hart
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Hunt, John Winchester
Tack, Nicholas
Jones, Walter James
Tryon, George Edwin
Klinke, William August
Thomas, Herbert Joseph
Lake, Joseph Lincoln
Winton, Raleigh Scott
Lind, Frank
Windle, Joseph
Marhoffer, Jacob
Wall, Joseph Aaron
Marhoffer, Frank Mason
Walton, George Curtis
Marlow, Frank Columbus
Wulf William Francis
-64

ROSTER.

77

MEMBERS:

..

Ashley, James Henderson, P. M.
Ashby, Joshuy Louis
Baldwin, Thomas Seary
Ball, Jau Don
Bullier, Leon
Burnett, William Fletcher
Burnett, Clarence Elbert
Canfield, William Walton
Canfield, Samuel Russell
Flint, Thomas, P. G. M.
Flint, Richard Hall
Flint, William Read, P. M.
Flint, Robert Winch(Stcr
Forrester, Arthur Bruce
Jean, George William
Kemp, Frederick William

Lewis, Thomas G.
Morton, Frank
Miles, James
Mitchell, George Francis
Moore, George Holmes, P. M.
Moore, Irvin Webster, P. M.
Mylar, Isaac
Moore, Arthur Smith, P. M.
Norton, Roscoe Greene, P. M.
Ouderkirk, Isaac
Regan, Mark Joseph
Slaysman, Charles Reese
Stewart, Archibald
Welch, Harry
Willcox, Joseph Sylvester
-31

FORBESTOWN LODGE, No. 50.
Forbestown, Butte County.
Stated Meetings; Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William John Schultz, Master,
John David Herrin, Senior Deacon,
Hiram Edward Parker, Senior W.,
Garret Clarence Daley, Junior D.,
Charles Francis Adams, Junior W., Gaylord Smith W. Twogood, Marshal,
John Frederick Schultz, Treasurer, Henry Asbury Conwell, Steward,
Alexander Ellis Anderson, Secretary,John E. Allen, Steward,
Philip Sullivan, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
San Juan, San Benito County.
Stated M~etings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Read Flint, Master,
Irvin Webster Moore, Senior D.,
William Walton Canfield, Senior W., Frederick Wm. Kemp, Junior D.,
Jau Don Ball, Junior Warden,
Clarence Elbert Burnett, Marshal,
Mark Joseph Regan, Treasurer,
Richard Hall Flint, Steward,
Arthur Smith Moore, Secretary,
Robert Winchester Flint, Steward,
Thomas George Lewis, Chaplain,
James Miles, Tyler.

Anderson, Alexander Elli9, P. M.
Cox, William David
Allen, John Emmet
Crandall, Abraham Lincoln
Alm, Fred Osker
Curtis, Benjamin Franklin
Braddock, David Washington, P. M. Daley, Garret Clarence
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, P. M.
Beik, Henry Albert
Finch, John Milton·
Beeve, Louis Joseph
Gildmacher, Melchior
Bouvier, Charles Frederick
Herrin, John David
Burroughs, Frank Cecil
Burroughs, Julian
Hill, Maxwell Gaddis, P. M.
Cannon, Albert C.
Hill, George Washington
Chappell, Wallace Homer, P. M.
Hurles, Smith Hetherington
Conwell, Henry Asbury
Jenks, William Napoleon Bonapart

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

78
Kratzer, Daniel Webster
Lilja, Andrew
Lisbon, Joseph Ribero
Lord, Frederick King
Miller, John Barrie
Morrison, John Raphael
Nivens, William Lincoln
Price, Gabriel William
Parker, Hiram Edward
Robertson, Edgar Simpson

SUISUN LODGE, No. 55.

Schultz, William John, P. M
Schultz, John Frederick
Sullivan, Philip
Slater, Nicholas Weaver
Smullin, Samuel Nesbit Dallas
Stocker, Edmund
Twogood, Gaylord Smith W .. P. M.
Turner, John Calvi~
·
Wagner, FrankB.
Wickman, Fred William
-44

Suisun, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OITICERS:
Ralph Merriman Sheldon, Master, Hiram Franklin Sheldon, Senior D.,
William James Moore, Senior W., Brenton Ruple Steward, ,Tunior D.,
Samuel Grant Mansford, Junior W., Daniel H. White, Marshal,
Edgar Ernest Long, Treasurer,
Emile Bowden P. Kemp, Steward,
James Underhill Spence, ~ecretary, Charles Ang. .Manwaring, Steward,
. Frederick Coryden Sheldon, Tyler.

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.
Colfax, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Frid~y of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Walter Roy Culver, Master,
Darius Volmore Norton, Senior D.,
Robert Alway Peers, Senior Warden, Melvin Russell, Junior Deacon,
George Edward West, Junior W., Duncan Falconer, Marshal,
James Edward West, Tre.i.surer,
Daniel A. Russell, Steward,
Morris Lobner, Secretary,
Chas. Andrew Geisendorfer, Steward,
Edgar Delancy Miner, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Miner, Edgar Delancy
Ackerm~n, Francis Marion
Moginn, Patrick Henry
Butler, John, P. M.
Morrison, Robert Gordon
Butler, Walter Lyon
Neideffer, John Fleming
Cadjew, Leland
Norto'n , Darius Valniore
Culver, Walter Ray, P. M.
Peers, Robert Alw ay, P. M.
Dysart, John
Raymond, Percy Miles
Ewers, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Reed, George Avery
Falconer, Duncan
Russell, Daniel A.
Gersendorfer, Charles Andrew
Russell, Melvin
Gersendorfer, John
Scott, Enoch Everett
Gersendorfer, George
Smith, Albert Halliday
Gersendorfer, William Paul
Stevens, Amos, P. M.
Griffith, Owen William
Specei, Charles Avery
Hallock, Robert F. Lattimer
Vore, Edmund
Henry, Alexander Culberson
West, George Edward
Hayford, William Barrows, P. M.
WE'st, James Edward
Hayford, James Barrows
Williamson, James Raycroft
Jones, Frank Ellis
Whitcomb, Robert Everett
Lobner, Morris, P. M.
-39
Lobner, Henry

79

•

•

MEMBERS:
Alen, William Edward
Hildebrand, William Sherman
Anderson, John Alden
Hoyt, William Kimball
Hunnewell, Freeman
Bacon, William
Barnett, Samuel Robert
Keene, Kendall Clifton
Long, Edgar Ernest
Bauman, Jacob Henry
Losh, Eugene Albert
Benthien, Henry
Macrandrius, Elias
Berner, August
Malchi, John
Bransford, Samuel Grant
Brown, John Stewart
Martin, Lucius D.
Brown, William Bernard
Mayfield, Charles Edgar
Miller, Allen Charles, P. M .
Cerkel, Wolf
Chadbourne, Grant
Miller, George Carlyle
Moore, William James
Chatfield, Walter
Chemas, Nicholas
Morrill, Frederick Lewis
Murray, John Houston
Danielson, Johan
Danghlers, John James
Oberti, Joseph
Davisson, William Gustavus, P. M. Perkins, Herman
Davisson, William Sherman
P ierce, William
Dickie, Albert Alexander, P. M.
Polland, James Samuel
Prather, James Hiram, P. M.
Dinkelspiel, Meye~, P. M.
Downing, William Green
Reed, Albert Leroy
Figeley, Charles McGill
Richardson, Jerome Bonaparte, P.M.
Finney, Henry Edward
Ririken, John Charles
Gabriel, F erdinand William
. Robbins, John Lloyd McC.
Gapin, John Magee
Robbins, Ruel Dimkwater, P M.
Gifford, William Leonard
Rush, Benjamin Franklin
Gillespie, George Anthony, P. M. Scarlett, Samuel
Guill, Etna E~ng
·
Sheldon, Frederick Corydon
Haile, John William
Sheldon, Hiram Franklin
Hale, William Crosby
Sheldon, Ralph Merriman; P. M.
Hart, Frank Russell
Shorey, Sumner A.
Harris, Henry
Spence, James Underhill, P. M.
Hilborn, Edward Payson
Steller, Louis Palin.er

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

80

•

Stephens, William Bell
Stewart, Brenton Rupel
Stewart, Edgar L.
Tornasini, Guiliano
Votypka, John
Watkins, Wilbur Kemble
Weinberger, Marcus

Wetmore, Chester
Wells, Roy Johnson
White, Daniel H.
Willson, Robert Martin
Wilson, John Andrew
Woods, Warren Anthony

81

SANTA ROSA LODGE, No. 57.
Santa Rosa, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Thomson Mailer, Senior D.,
Edward Phelps Lewis, Junior D.,
William Howard Goodman, Marshal,
Lewis B. Lawson, Steward
Chas. Howard Underwood, Steward,
Charles Bernard Kobes, Tyler.

Elbert Ransom Sawyer, Master,
Walter Lee Whitaker, Senior W.,
Marvin Thos. Vaughan, Junior W.,
Charles Dwight Barnett, Treasurer,
William Henry Pool, Secretary,
John Elliott, Chaplain,

-79

VOLCANO LObGE, No. 56.

MEMBERS:

Volcano, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Herman Michael Ubbens, Master,
George Albert Berry, Senior Deac.,
Clarence Braushaw, Senior Warden, Charles Wallenberg, Junior Deacon,
Edward Santirfo, Junior Warden, August Grillo, Marshal,
William Smith, Treasurer,
Cora McKinzie, Steward,
Alexander Adams, Secretary,
James Hamilton, Steward,
Griff Denning, Chaplain,
Domenico Gianini, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Alexander
Lucott, George Washington
Barrett, Thomas Gilman
Mason, Warren Quincy, P. M.
Berry, George Albert
McKinzie, Cora
Bradshaw, Clarence, P. M.
McKinnon, Malm Campbell
Cook, Lewis Horton
McRae, Lawrence Angus
Denning, Griff
Miller, Louis F.
Dillian, William
Nicho_ls, G. C.
Fisher, David
Real, An tone Lewis
Fisher, David
Rinehart, Ottis Wash
Frye, Ruben Frederick
Ryan, William ·
Freiman, Harry Nicholas, P. M.
Santirfo, Edward
Gianini, Domonico
Schmidt, John
Glenn, William Jay
Smith, William
Grillo, August
Ubbens, Herman Michael, P. M.
Grillo, John Batista
Wallenberg, Charles
Hamilton, James
Walker, Edward Francis
Hipkins, William Asbery
Watkins, Rufus
Hughes, Samuel
Webster, Ottis Linchon
-36

•

r

Acton, William
Ahrens, William Martin
Andrews, George Ewing.
Arnold, Amasa W.
Ayers, George Lemuel
Bailey, Jesse William
Baker, Walter Hussey
Ballard, Benjamin Franklin
Bane, Frank Preston
Barnett, Charles Dwight, p, M.
Becker, John.
Belden, Benjamin Clinton
Belden, Charles Clinton
Belden, Ralph Austin
Benson, William
Berka, Frank
Bernstein, Isaac William
Bertolani, Peter America
Bertolani, Pietro
Body, Mark, P. M.
Bogle, Samuel Saffell
Bonar, Robert M.
Bonney, Alfred Truscott
Bowman, Thomas
Brandt, Louis
Braughler, Martin
Bronson, Eugene Grant
Brown, Arthur DeWitt
Brown, William Elias
B=ning, Christopher Henry Wm.
Bryant, AUen
Bumpus, Cyrus Hamblin
Bumbaugh, Charles Martin, P. M.
6

Burgess, James Floyd
Burleson, Allan Lucien
Burnett, Albert G., P. M.
Burris, Frank Marion
Burris, Luther William
Burris, Shirley David
Campbell, John Tyler, P. M.
Carter, Daniel Putnam
Cline, Henry Christian, P. M
Colgan, Edward Power
Colgan, George Washington
Connelly, Frank Henry
Cooper, Eugene Marcus
Cox, Exum Morris, P. M.
Crane, Alexander Thomas
Crawford, Edwin Henry
Crawford, Richard Fruit
Cross, Frank G.
Crowder, Henry Crawford, P M.
Crump, John M.
Cunningham, Charles S.
Davis, Henry Smith
Davis, Walter Scott
Decker, Danville
DeLappe, Russell
Doda, Battista Giovanni
Dohn, George Arthur
Dohn, George Ernest
Doran, William James
Dougherty, Samuel Kimmel
Dowell, John
Downes, Ernest
Dunbar, John

82

ROSTER.

Duncan James Parker
Duprey: Augustus Francis
Einhorn, Joseph Herman
Elliott, John
· Erwin, Albert Orland
Fahrion, George Washington
Farmer, Christopher Columbus
Finley, Harrison
Finley, William Asa
Fitts, John Perry
Flint, Willard Bert
Forsyth, Henry Mizer
Fountain, Orlando
Foy, George Frederick
J!'rank, Nels Christiansen
Franklin, Job Henry "Richard
French, Charles Franklin
Fryer, Roy
Ua tee, Erastus H., P. M.
Gilman, Lewell J ease
Glenn, Robert
Glynn, Francis J. B.
Goodman, Leopold Solomon
Goodman, William Howard
Uoodwin, Vernon, P. M.
Green, Lincoln D.
Green, Paul Franklin
Uriffith, Archer C.
Griggs, William Ben jamin, P. M.
Grohe, Fred
.
Rahman, Henry Gustav
Hall, Joseph Edward
. Hardin, Ephrim
Harris, Ephaim Drake
Hatch, Irvin Clifton
Haven, Clarence
Henry, James
Herrick, Albert Benjamin, P. M.
Hicks, James Oliver
Hildebrand, Newton Francis
Hill, Lyman C.
Hockin, William
Hodge, Alexander Ladd
Hosmer, Stanley
Hosmer, Winslow Simon
Houts, Orrie L.

Hoyt, Jesse Douglas
Hurlstone, Richard Brain
Hutchison, Lawrence
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Charles
Jesse, James William
Johnson, Andrew
Jones, Florin Leslie, P. M.
Jones, William
Jordan, Leslie Agostine
Juell, Nils Roth H.
Juilliard, Charles Frederick
Klein, Joseph
Kobes, Charles Bernard, P. M.
Korbel, Anton Francis
Lafranchi, Massimino
Lane, Carlton Alpheus, P. M.
Lark, Newton Allen
Laughlin, Alex. Douglas, P. M.
Laughlin, John McGill, P. M
Lawson, Lewis B.
L ee, Charles Eugene
L eete, Orton
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, P. M
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, Jr.
Lemmon, Fred Gage
Lewis, Edmund Phelps
Lewis, George Washington
Loomis, Frank Clemens
Luce, Arthur Sprague
Mackenzie, Allan Ramsey
Mailer, James Clark, P. M.
Mailer, James Thomson
Mailer, James Robb
Mallory, George Washington, P . M.
Malott, Howard Oliver
Martin, David Elliott
Mason, Joseph B.
McConnell, William Ellitt
MacGregor, Allan P.
McCor4, Smith Scott
McDonald, Mark Lindsey, Jr
McKenzie, Donald, P. M.
McKinley, Duncan E.
McLeod, James Harvey
McMeans, Alexander Campbell, P.M.

ROSTER.

•

•

•

•

McMinn, John, Sr.
McNab, Arthur Victor
McNab, John Liddell
Meneray, Prince Albert
Merritt, Edson Charles
Metcalf, Samuel W.
Miller, Thomas Boone
:Mills, Emory Temple
:Mobley, John Elmer
Moke, Henry Herbert
Morgan, William Cochrane
Morrison, Oscar
:Mortenson, Hans (1)
:Mortenson, Hans (2)
Nagle, Frederick Gough
Nash, James Ashby
Near, Christopher David
Neblett, Edward, P. M.
Nye, Berthold Max
Oates, James Wyatt
O'Bryan, Leon Nelson
Overton, John Patton
Paddock, Doctor John
.Page, Charles Albert
Page, David Cooper, P. M.
Palmer, George Washington
Patton, Dexter
Paxton, Blitz Wright
Peterson, Andrew
Peterson, Raford W esley
Peterson, William Wilson
Phelps, Charles Lorranie
Philips, Edward James
Piggott, James Kenneth
Pool, William Henry
Porep, Walter Putnam
Potter, Eber Ward
Rainey, Abraham Clay, P. M.
Randall, Chester Earl
Rasmussen, Peter
Reeve, ·Orson Henry
Reindollar, Theodore Buffington
Renshaw, Arthur Morrow
Reutershan, Max
Rhoades, Samuel
Ricksecker, Lucius Edgar

Ross, Henry J., P. M.
Ross, John
Ross, Thomas Daniel
Savage, Charles Wilber
Savage, ·George Walter
Sawyer, Elbert Ransom
Schmid.Ii, Joseph Herman
Seawell, Emmet
Seegelken, Johan Wilhelm
Shaffer, Reuben H.
Shaffer, Wilber Emmet
Sharp, Isaac
Shaw, William
Shearer, William Piper, P. M
Shriver, Nathan
Simpson, Willie Burton, P. M.
Sinclair, Henry George
Slater, George Herbert Waite
Smallwood, Edward B.
Smith, John Calhoun
Smith, John Kinder
Smyth, Newton Van Vleit
Speegle, Madison Monroe
Spencer, Byron M.
Steiner, Frederick Charles
Stewart, John Hudson
Staley, ~ayne Snoden
Stark, Leonard H.
Steele, John Ernest
Swain, R euben Morey
Taylor, Charles DeWitt
Taylor, John Shackleford
Temple, Jackson
Thomas, George Per1'
Thompson, James Monroe
Thorson, Jesse Fremont
Townson", James Thomas
Tripp, Hiram Lewis, P. M.
Tupper, George And~rson
Underwood, Charles Howard
Vanderhoof, Martin Van Buren
Vaughan, Marvin Thomas
Ware, Allison Burr, P. M.
Warboys, John Walter
Ward, Charles S.
West, Wilbur Samuel

83

ROSTER.

84
W etche, Christian Fredrik
Whitaker, Walter Lee
Wiles, John :Marshall
Wines, William Freeman, P. M.
Wolfe, George

ROSTER.

Woolsey, William Edgar
Yarnell, William I.
Yoho, Samuel R.
Young, Frank William

-259

•

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, nrst Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward Frederick Willi, Master,
Charles Albert Root, Senior W.,
·John Franklin Morgan, Junior W.,
August Meister, Treasurer,
Thomas John Baker, Secretary,
William Thomas Phipps, Chaplain,

Charles Edward Hill, Seniur D.,
Oscar G. Jones, Junior Deacon,
Edwin Henry Harvey, Marshal,
Walter L. Rickett, Steward,
Harry Garneld Krebs, Steward,
Joel Osgood Wilder, Sr., Tyler .

MEMBERS:
Abrams, David
, Clauss, John
Clement, Louis Metzler
Allen, John Francis
Cooledge, Isaac Baldwin, P . M .
Alexander, Robert, P. M.
Coyne, William
Arnold, Frederick William
Cunningham, Alexander
Arnold, Horace Douglas
Curtis, George Perry
Baker, Thomas John, P. M.
Denson, Samuel Crawford, P. G. M.
Baldwin, William Hedges, P. M.
Douglas, William Wallace
Bates, Joseph
Dreyer, Rasmus Peter Neilson
Bauer, John Jacob Rock
Dutcher, Willard Perry
Baughman, Nobel Henry
Eckhardt, William Henry
Bennetts, Alfred Ernest
Egeberg, Julius Columbus
Berkey, Thomas Henry
Ehret, Stephen Henry
Blauth, Theobaln
Eichrodt, Max
Bliss, Sidney
Ellsworth, William Munn
Boltz, Peter Sauser
Ellsworth Charles Henry
Brooke, Morris
Enwright, Thomas Lincoln
Bruederly, William Sherman
Feldhusen, John Henry
Brummer, John Henry
Ferguson, James Henry, P. M.
Burnside, Thomas Seth
Ferre, Albert Eames
Butler, John Winchel Spencer
Fical, Charles A.
Byers, Robert Hopkins
Fitch, William Cyrus
Carlan, Andrew
Forney, Henry Hinkle
Case, John Nelson
Ford, Quincy Albertis
Clark, William Edward

•

•

•

Fourness, Eli
Fox, David Franklin
Gardnier, Alexander John, P. M.
Gerson, Samuel
G:Ieve, Harry Ernest
Gray, Frank Livingstone
Gray, George Addison
Gregg, George
Grimes, Allen ·Lawrence
Grinton, John Kennedy
Haas, Nelson Willoughby
Hack, Julius Frederick
Hardlin, William Joseph
Harvey, Edwin Henry
Harbison, James, P. M.
Harbison, James George
Hawkins, William
Heitman, John Henry
Henrich, Karl.
Hill, Charles Ewdard
Hicks, William Arthur
Hicks, John Benton
Hoffman, Daniel Webster, P . M .
Hopkins, Owen Griffith .
Huntington, Thomas Waterman
Husted, William Joseph
Ingham, Harry
Johnson, Howard Kennedy, P. M.
Jones, Oscar G.
Joy, Robert
Judson, Frederick Walter
Kay, Edgar John
Kellam, William Henry Browning
Kendrick, Colin
Keyes, Homer Frost
Kleinsorge, Frank Benjamin
Kloppenburg, Daniel William
Koch, Carl
Krebs, Harry Garneld
Lambert, Richard Hobart
Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Levison, Jaco I>
Lightner, tlonus
Lindsley, Albert
Little, Christopher
Longton, Thomas Henry

Marshall, Joseph Owen
Meister, August
Meister, George Albert, P. M
Meister, Albert Reinhardt
.Meyer, Johann Gerhard
Mitan, Henry
Moore, James Hoskins, P. M
Moore, Frederick William
Morgan, John Franklin
Morri11on, James Matthew
Morehead, William
Morshead, Philip
Moulton, Dwight Augustus
McCormack, Charles
McCormick, Frank
McCulloch, James
McCreary, Robert Clark
McGregor, John
McKay, Daniel
McKeever, Francis May
McWade, David Dale
Nathan, Aaron
Nathan, Isador Carroll
Newman, Peter
Newman, George
Noack, Charles John
Noack, Carl William Gustave
Nourse, Sterling Boyd'en
O'Neill, Edward John, P. M.
Peacocke, William
.Peck, Nelson Stanley
Peterson, William Frederick
Phipps, William Thomas, P. M.
Pope, Edwin Alexander
Potter, Loyal Abner
Prince, Joseph William
Randle, George Nelson
Redington, Alfred Augustus, P. M.
Rego, Edward Sutherland
Reid, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Richards, William Freeman
Rickett, Walter L.
Rock, John William, P . M.
Root, Charles Albert
Rothfteld, Sigmund
Ruhstaller, Frank Joseph

85

ROSTER.

86

ROSTER.

Van Fleet, William Carey
Vaughn, Edward ·
Wallace, Edward Lee Roy
Wallace, Joseph Fillmore
Waite, George Smith
Welch, Benjamin
Welch, George Drake
Welch, George Henry
White, George Amos, P. M.
White, John L<ysander
White, George William
Willi, William George
Willi, Edward Frederick
Willi, Oscar John
Wilson, Benno, P. M.
Wilson, James John
Wilson, Jesse Warren
Wilder, Joel Osgood
Wilder, Edwin Milton
Wiston, Arthur Melville
Witham, Gilbert Tapley
Wolf, Edward
Woolston, William
Wright, Ralph
Yoerk, Charles Augustus
Younger, Andrew ·

Schmid, Emil
Schroeder,Richard Franklin
Schnab, William
Scott, William
Shaw, Ira Clark
Sheldon, William Chauncey
Shepstone, George Ebenezer
Simmons, Samuel, P. M.
Smith, John Edward
Smith, William Penn
Smith, Benjamin
Smith, Samuel Augustus
Stich, Harry Leo, P. M.
Steffins, Joseph
Stevens, Fred Andrew
Stevenson, Henry Llewellyn
Stoddard, George Allen
Swan, William Osborn
Swift, Charles Judson
Teichert, Adolph
Thiele, Ernest Arden
Thornton, Richard Parker
Toleman, Frank Augustus
Tozer, Charles Walter
Uhl, George Adam
Uren, Stephen'
Uren, John Martin

•

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.
Quincy, Plumas County..
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:·

•
-193

GRAVEL RANGE LODGE, No. 59.
Camptonville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Francis G. Jackson, Master.
Earl LeRoy Cleveland, Sen. Ward.,
Joseph P. Pendola, Jun. Warden,
Thomas J. Byrd, Treasurer,
Wm. Bull Meek, Secretary,
John Rufus Kennady, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Alfred
McLean, Alex.
Byre, Thomas Jefferson
Meek, Wm. Bull, P. M.
Cleveland, Earl Leroy, P. M.
Merriam, James Chester •
Fiess, John Wm.
Mondada, Peter
Hosking, George
Pendola, Joseph Paul
Jackson, Francis Gorden, P. M.
Phillips, John Walter
Kennady, John Rufus
Polley, Eathm Nathan
Kennady, John Henry, P. M.
Scott, James Warren
Kendall, Edward
•
Smith, Henry
Lake, George Wesley
Stidger, John Perry
Lewis, Francis
Watts, Jeremiah, P. M.
Lewis, David
Williams, Thomas-24.

Peter Mondada, Senior Deacon,
Alfred Anderson, Junior Deacon,
Francis Lewis, Marshal, · .
Eathm N. Polley, Steward,
Edward Kendall, Steward,
Thomas Williams, Tyler.

•

Asa White Gray, Master,
Leon Lowell Clough, Senior D.,
Herbert Felix Hail, Senior W.,
Louis Archa Barrett, Junior D.,
Louis A. Henry Kling, Jun. W.,
Gilbert Palmer, Marshal,
John Franklin Spooner, Treasurer, Chas. Snider Myers, Steward,
Horace Park McBeth, Secretary,
William Malcolm, Steward,
William Thomas Byers, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barrett Louis Archa
Hanvey, Charles Brace Hewitt
Byers, Wm. Thom11-s
Johnson Frank Evean
Clough, Leon Lowell
Keddie, Arthur Walter, P. M
Dunham, Allen Murry
Kerr, Michael Charles
Eisner, David
Kling, Louis Albert Henry
Ford Walter Jackson
Koonter, Robert Fred
Felleman, John Irving
Lasswell, Bert James
Garner, Edward
Larison, James Hardin
Gifford, John
Leopold, Asa Freudenthal
Goodwin, John· Daniel, P. M.
Maurer, Henry Rudolph
Goodwin, William Nettle11, P. M.
Malcolm, William
Goodwin, Samuel Daniel
Mechling, Jacob Jefferson
Gray, Asa White
Moncur, James Ogilvie, P. M.
Gruss, Joseph
Myers, Charles Snider
Hail, Felix Grundy
McBeth, Horace Park
Hail, Herbert Felix
McChesney, Joseph, P. M.

87

HOSTER.

88
McCleave, Samuel
McComas, William Pratt
McLennan, Kenneth
Palmer, GHbert
Spooner, John Franklin
Stephen, George Henry

Stewart, Robert
Strite, George A.
Thompson, Charles Russell
Wagner, Lewis Herman
Webb, Ulysses Sigel
Wilson, George

•
-44

LIVE OAK LODGE, No. 61.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Abraham Powell Leach, Master,
Charles Henry Wood, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Vance Blasdel, Senior W.,
Albert Franklin Shulte, Jun. D.,
Martin Meno Hoffman, Junior W.,
Guy Duncan Reynolds, Marshal.,
Percy Brush Hardenbergh, Treas., Lorenzo Dow S. Inskeep, Steward.,
Junia Josiah Warner, Secretary.
William August Rasmusen, Steward.,
Albert Harris Trathen, Chaplain.
Albert Bistorious, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Abernethy, William John
Adams, Henry Hamijton
Akerly, James Clark Smith
Akins, Edward Charles
Allen, Alex. McMillan
Allyn, Burton Charles.
Amaden, Ralph J.
Andersen, Magnus Alfred
Anderson, Charles Alfred
Anderson, Charles John
Anderson, Harry Severin
Andrews, Charles William
Angwin, James Alfred
Angwin, William Stanley
Arlett, Arthur
Arper, George Washington
Arrowsmith, William H.
Atkinson, Thomas Albion
Austin, Harry
Avery, Edward Everett
Avery, Mark Herbert
Baab, Charles
Bachelder, Carl Ames
Badgley, William Oscar

ROSTER.

•

Baggot, Ed Protzman
Bahls, Richard
Bailey, William Heri-ey
Baker, Abel Warren Jr.
Baker, David Franklin
Baker, Eugene Hall
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Ball, Clinton Cory
Ball, Charles Henry
Bandy, George Lewis
Barnes, William Chauncey
Barnes, William Holland
Bartram, Robert Washington
Bauer, Jacob
Baumgartner, Andrew Fred
Baumgartner, August Christoph
Beach, Ranson Elias
Beckwith, John Allison, P. M
Belden, William Allen
Bennett, Robert Howard
Beretta, Italo Andrew
Bergsten, Oscar Paulus
Bibber, Thomas Benjamin
Bice, John

.,.

Bilger, Frank William
Bird Charles Gladstone
Bish~p, Amasa Wright, P. M.
Bistorious, Albert
Blair, George Washington
Blasdel, Harry Vance
Blood, William Frank
Boardman, Joseph
Boardwater, William Elgin
Boldt, William Lewis
Boland, Archie Frederick
Bolza, William
Borgeson, Charles John
Borton, Chester Cooper
Botsford, Edwin Russell
Bowers, Charles Levi
i:Jowersmith, John Everett
Bradley, Arthur James
Bradway, Frank Fernando
Brady, Edward James
Braun, Nathaniel Henry
Broad, Charles Augustus
Brooks, Frank Howard.
Brown, Norris James
Brown, William Mainland, Jr.
Browne, Harry Rosekrans
Buckley, Frank Elijah
Bullock, Richard Steele
Burch, George Emerson
Burt, Frederick Leslie
Bush, Harry Charles, P. M.
Buteau, Samuel Hawkins
Campbell, Charles Hardie
Capwell, Harris Cebert
Carlton, Harry Putnam
Carpenter, Thomas Edgar
Carroll, George Warren
Castell, Clarence Whitney
Chamberlin, William Richmond
Chambers, Wilfred Ernest
Chandler, Frank Melvin
Chapman, George Hawke
Chappel, Robert Newell
Chesnut, John Augustus
Church, Lincoln Sheridan
Clark, Marion

Clayton, William Burt
Cloud, Archibald Jeter
Cockerton, Daniel Henry
Coekerton, George Albert
Coffin, Herbert
Coffin, Oliver Cromwell
Colegrove, John Albert
Colquhoun, Joseph AlexanJer
Cooley, Milton Van Horn
Conradi, Philip
Cook, John Peter
Cook, Peter
Cook, William Coleman
Cornell, Daniel Jefferson
Cotter, Fred Martin
Cotter, Ralph Evans
Craft, Richard Corson
Craig, Homer Alexander
Cramer, Adolph Edward Henry
Cramer, Guido Detlef
Crane, Carlton Cyrus
Crane, George Richard
Crane, William Whitfield
Crellin, Thomas Arthur
Crocker, Horace Alvin
Cron, Wiiliam Jr.
Cross, Ralph Herbert
Crowell, Clarence Elwin
Culver, William Lee
Curdts, Carl Edward
Curtis, Earl W.
Curtis, Frederick Charles
Dalton, Frank Norris, P. M.
Dalton, Henry Norris
Dalton, Henry Philip, P. M.
Dargie, William Edward
Davies, Charles Percival
Davis, Abner Alfred
Davis, James Edward
Davis, Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Judson Milton
Dean, Beach Humphrey
Dean, William Edward
Decoto, Ezra William
Deering, Chester
DeGolia, Edwin Baldwin

89

90
Depoy, James Alstott, Jr.
Derrick, George Henry
Dewar, John Robert, P. M ..
Dieckmann, John Henry
Dixon, George
Dodge, Clarence Wythe
Dodge, Guy Edward
Dodge, Henry Arthur
Dorman, Charles Goodyear
Dornin, George William, P. M.
Drew, Edwin Pierce
DuBois, Percy Hamilton
Dunn, Leslie Budd
Eaton, Henry Jones
Eby, John Douglas
Echlin, Charles Clare
Edoff, James P.
Edson, Judson Henry
Edwards, Edward
Elfen, Harry Edward
Emerson, Mark Lewis
Engs, Otis Webb
Evans, Robert Griffith
Ewer, Eclward Norton
Faller, .Charles Henry
Falvey, John Richard
Farish, Robert Roy
Farrington, Elvin Dunn
Farwell, Oney Melvin
Fassett, James Sherman
Fernhof, Frederick James
Flagg, Clarence Jasper
Flather, Rq.bert Bruce
Fletcher, Francis Alden
Flint, George Mooar
Flood, Alfred James
Flora, Charles Aaron
Ford, Charles Wallace
Porsyth, George Thomas
Fortin, Octavius Victor
Fortin, Victor Lazarus
Fossing, John Charles
Foster, Granville Franklin
Foster, Newel Kelley
I
Fox, Fred Kinsman
France, Henry Wallace

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Francis, Leon Chapman
Frederick, Clarence John
Frederick, Walter Flemming
French, Robert Ellsworth
Frost, William Thomas
Furniss, Herbert Olmsted
Gardiner, William
Garibaldi, William Joseph
Gauge, William Arthur
Gee, Edgar Frederick
Gelder, David
Gelder, John
George, Elias Overman
Gibbs, Alfred Kane .
Gilbert, Ethan Allen
Glascock, John Ragland, P. M.
Glenn, Alexander Glenn
Glenn, John Quinn
Good, Carl Edward
Goodfellow, George Emery
Goodwin, Robert Henry
Grant, George
Gray, George Adam
Gray, Harry Paul
Gray, Martin Luther
Green, Harry Elmer Ellsworth
Green, Jacob Samuel
Green, William Franklin
Greene, Samuel Hartley
Greenebaum, William Bernard
Greenwell, William Matthew
Griffin, Edmund Wait
Griffith, William Edwin
Griswold, Lee Swaney
Gross, William G. C.
Gruen, John C.
Gulick, Charles Francis, P. M
Hack, John Joseph
Haelke, Helwig Leopold
Hafner, Emile Charles
Hahn, James Dyer
Haight, Horace Howard
Hall, Charles Frederick
Hall, Edward Masser, Jr.
Hall, Ellis Gray
Hall, Hiram Tubbs

•

•
•

...

Hall, Joseph Lee
Hall, Leon Eugene
Hall, Norman Walter
· Hall, Percy Weller
Hall, Samuel Pike
Hammond, Frederick William
Hanmore, George Albright
Hardenbergh, Percy Brush
Hardwick, Edward Newcomb
Harlow, William Sturtevant
Harris, Joseph Charles
Hart, Edward Henry, G. M.
Harvey, Harold Heathcote
Harvey, Norval Playfair
Haselbacher, Louis Charles
Hatfield, William Richy, P. M.
Haven, Cha.rles Edward, P. M.
Hawbaker, Clayton Henry
Hayes, Daniel David
Hearn, Frank
Hedemark, Charles Louis
Heeseman, Charles John
Helfer, Howard Tayler
Hemler, Charles Cadmus
Henderson, Walter
Henry, James Thomas
Herrick, LeRoy Francis
Hersey, Elisha Atkins
Hersey, Frederick Ho~e
Hess, Philip Henry, Jr.
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert
Hickmott, Robert
Hilbourn, Theodore Osgood
Hildebrand, George DeForest
Hill, Magnus Peter
Hodges, Alfred Coggin
Hoffman, Martin Meno
Holladay, Sherman Edgar
Holland, Arthur Percy
Holmes, Thomas Blakeney
Hooe, Headley Smith
Hoppen, Alfred
Horner, Andrew Long
Horton, John Rodboe
Hosmer, Abel
Hughes, Arthur Chester

Hume, William Robert
Hunt, Edwin Goddard
Hunt, Andrew Tanner
Hunt, Joseph Hancock
Hunt, Walter Winslow
Hurd, Frank Morgan
Hutchinson, Dwight
Hyde, Clarence
Hyde, Marcus Darius, P. M
Ingham, George Howard
Inskeep, Lorenzo Dow Steward
Irgens, Louis Steaven
Irwin, John Clarke
Jackson, Alton Cass
James, Charles Albert
James, David William
James, Edmond Harrison
James, Nathaniel Talbot
Jameson, Charles Henry
Jenkins, John Arthur
John, Jenkin Bevan
Johnson, Benjamin Oliver
Johnson, Charles Henry
J.ohn.Son, Edward Clarence
Johnson, Murrey Levering
Johnson, William
Jordan, Frank Chester
Jordan, John Benjamin
Joyce, Austin Ambrose
Keller, Abraham
Kelly, Charles Marsh
Kendall, Frank Irving
Kerr, Archie Fullerton
Kerr, Louis Cormick
Kirkpatrick, Clyde
Kjelsberg, Karl Magnus
Klumpp, Emil Carl
Knapp, Charles Richard
Knight, Frederick Wales
Knowles, Jesse Baker
Koford, Henning
Kohler, Henry Herman
Kuss, Peter Nicholas
Kyte, George Joseph Douglas
Lackie, George Steele
Laing, Orlando Judson

91

92

ROSTER.

Lane, Orlando Arthur
Lang, William
Lanyon, James
LarRieu, Edmond Augustus
Laughland, John
Lawton, Howard Mills
Leach, Abraham Powell
LeBallister, Frederick William
Leber, Albert Lewis
Leber, Henry
Lefevre, Louis Anton
Logan, Walter Edward
Loher, George Thomas
Lord, Leslie Howard
Lukens, George Russell
Lund, Hans Nicolai Petersen
Lund, John
Macintire, William Nelson
Maddox, Perry Ellsworth
Madsen, Henry Larsen
Makins, James Nicholas, Jr
Makins, Joseph Henry
Manasse, August
Manuel, Walter Griswold, P. M.
Masters, Sawyer Hayward
Matthews, Francis Ima
Mauvais, Roy
Mccargar, Jesse B.
Mccarron, David
McClymonds, John William, P. M.
McCord, Thomas
Mccready, Frederick Lee
McDonald, Nathaniel
McGowan, Warren Emerson
McKenzie, William
McKinnon, John Robert
McKissick, Harry Hanna
McMullen, John Cornelius
/
McPherson, Alexander Lewis
McPike, Henry Clay
Meek, Rodolph Wallace, P. M.
Meese, Constant
Merwin, Charles Wallace
Merwin, Edward Green
Metcalf, Victor Howard
Miller, Montgomery Kinzie

Miller, Washington J.
Mills, Joseph Bertrin
Milner, Charles Harold
Miner, James Ogden, P. M.
Mitchell, Claudius Hamilton
Mitchell, John
Mitchell, William Andrew
Montgomery, William Ernest
Moore, Charles William
Moores, Eldridge Morton
Morris, William
Morrison, John
Mott, Frank Kanning, P. M.
Moyer, Frank Durning
Muurmann, Peter
Naismith, George Semple
Neal, William Franklin
Neale, Charles Arthur
Nelson, Floyd Ormand
Nelson, James Wesley
.Nettleton, Corliss Eugene
Newman, William Arthur
Newsom, Joseph Cather
Nicholson, Walter Ephraim
Nielsen, Knud
Niles, Rufus
Nissen, August Fred
Noack, Harry Richard
Northey, Vernal Sidney
Nottage, Frank Melville
Ogden, Frank Burroughs, P. M.
Olds, Frank
0 'Leary, Timothy
Ormsby, Alfred Seymour
Osgood, Frederick Smith
Otto, Frederick G.
Overend, Edmund John
Owen, William Henry Searles
Paine, Herman
Palmer, James Irving
Palmer, Oscar Burnett
Park, John Allan, P. M.
Parker, Oscar Obediah Welsford
Parratt, Alfred Pennington
Parrish, Charles Champion
Parrish, Norman Adolph

ROSTER.

•

Parrish, Wilfred Edward
Parrish, William Henry
Patrick, Andrew Robertson
Patterson, Albert Lewis Crandall
Paulson, Walfred Louis
Pease, Joseph Loran
Pedrini, Joseph Massimino
.Pelton, Lester Allen
Pendleton, Erastus Otis
Perigo, Oliver Elbridge
Perkins, Clement George
Perkins, Frederick King
Peters, Martin Orrin
Peterson, John Laurence
Peterson, Rasmus
Phipps, William Henry, P. M.
Pierce, Charles Dexter
Pierce, George Sener.a
Pierce, John Hiram
Piercy, Arthur Thomas
Pierson, Thomas Washington
Pirie, Jesse Franklin
Pitman, Benjamin
Posey, Addison Cornelius
Potts, James Alexander
Poulsen, Albert Martin
Poulsen, Otto Alexander
Pratt, William Herbert, P. M.
Price, Wallace Covert
~chard, Thomas
Proctor, David Archibald
Purves, John
Rabe, John
Railton, Edward Charles James
Randolph, George Emerson
Rasmusen, William August
Rasmussen, Hans
Reed, Elisha James
Reed, Walter Dickson
Reinhardt, Joseph
Reinhart, George Washington
Reinle, George Gottlieb
Revalk, Richmond Emil
Reynolds, Fred Eugene
Reynolds, Guy Duncan
Rhodes, Alexander Gordon

93

Richards, John Callahan
Roach, Henry Patrick
Robbins, Henry Russell
Robins, Frederick Charles Hamilton
Robinson, Edward Constant, P. M . .
Robinson, Jones McGregor
Rodda, William James
Roeth, George
Roff, Harry Loren
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Ross, Horace Potter
Rowell, Clarence Fellows
Rowland, Frank Henry
Rowlands, Clement Phillip
Rugg, Ormel
Russell, Edward Knight
Rutherford, David
Rutley, Byron
Sagehorn, George Theodore
Samuels, Isaac Julius
Samuels, Julius, P. M.
Saulpaugh, William Eugene
Schafer, John Herman
Schaffer, Louis
Scharz, Richard Emil
Schullerts, Frank Oscar
Schulze, Max Charles
Seaton, Horace Scott
Seese, John Siegfried
Seulberger, John Frederick
Shakespeare, James
Shannon, James Madison
Shaug, Marcus Luther
Shaw, Lucien Woolfolk
Shingle, Louis Conger
Shinnick, Charles Carroll
Shulte, Albert Franklin
Slemin, Charles
Smith, Benjamin John
Smith, Edward Charles
Smith, Wager Swayne, P. M.
Snyder, Andrew Jackson
Sohst, Carl .John
Somps, Jules
Southard, William Freeman
Standeford, William Bert

94
Stark, George John William
Starr, Robert Emmet
Stevens, John William
Stewart, John Lealand
Stimpson, George Washington
Stolp, Fred Augustus
Stuart, Arthur Leslie
Stuart, Percy Rankin
Summers, Rollin Allen
Sutherland, Edwin.
Swain, Clinton Terry
Swauger, Arthur Bruce
Swauger, Delmar Denio
Swauger, Harry Lesel
Sweeney, George Wade
Symmons, Samuel Jame11
Tallman, James Rosco
Tayler, James Howard
Taylor, Felton
Taylor, Fred Butterworth
Thompson, Frank Robert, P. M.
Thurston, Eugene True, Jr.
Tillson, Fred Minot
Timerman, Edwin Campbell
Todd, Alonzo Lewis
Todd, Francis Joseph
Tomson, Charles Benton
Tower, Charles Knibloe
Townes, John Franklin
Tozer, Charles Francis
'l'rathen, Albe~t Harris
Treadwell, Charles Graner
Trotter, John
Trow, Charles Lloyd
Troy, John Henry
Tucker, Francis Marion
Tuman, Charles Hubert
Turner, Egbert Judson
Turner, Walter
Turrell, Herbert Newton
Uhl, George, Jr.
Umphred, Frank Morris
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Vance, James, P. M.
Van Vrankin, Bradford E .
Veitch, William Thomas
von Adelung, Edward

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Walker, George Cook
Walker, Harry Lindley
Walker, Percival John
Walker, William Abner
Wallace, Frederick James
;W'amer, Elon Lafayette
Warner, Junia Josiah, P. M.
Webber, Joseph Francis Ruggles
Webster, Albert Bradford, P. M.
Webster; Leander Rankin
Well, Leopold Reginald
Wentworth, Franklin Judson
West, William Denison
Westover, Clinton
Wheeler, Roscoe
White, Carlos Greenleaf
White, John Gurney
White, Robert Macmillan
White, Warren Sears
White, William Jasper
White, William Thornton
White, Willard Woodard
Whyte, Malcolm Calvfa.
Wiedersheim, Chas. Fred Herman
Wight, Frederick Gordon, P. M.
Wiggin, Charles Maynard
Wilkinson, Edward Melville
:Willeford, David Samuel
Williams, Ernest Deane
Williams, Harry Greeley
Williams, Nicholas
Williams, Thomas Arthur
Willis, Arthur D.
Wilson, Sidney Homer
Wishart, William Albert
Wixson, Robert Stanton
Wollitz, Ernest Alfred
Wood, Charles Henry
Wood, Herbert Anthony
Woodward, Francis John
Woolncr, Benjamin Frankli~
Woolsey, Elliot Hartman
Wulzen, Edgar Franklin
Wythe, Stephen
Wythe, Willson Joseph
Zabel, Carl Julius
-601

95

GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 62.
Chinese Camp, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Terrill Lewis, Senior D.,
John Alexander Smith, Master,
Frederick Wm. Griner, Senior W., Edwin Kemp, Junior Deacon,
Norton Woodbridge Currie, Marshal,
Isaac Henry Evans, Junior W.,
Daniel Edgar Stratton, Treasurer, William Henry Smith, Steward,
James Riley, Steward,
Saul Morris, Secretary,
Thomas John Russell, Tyler.
Richard G. Penrose, Chaplain,.
MEMBERS:
Lewis, Williain Terrill
Anthony, Richard David
Morris, Paul
Bluett, Samuel Thomas
Morris, Saul, P. M.
Bolton, Edwin Robert
Nye, Benjamin Franklin
Bryson, James Lafayette
Orcutt, Alpheus Sherman
Campbell, Charles Rufus
Pascoe, Edward John
Covert, William Percy
Palmm-, Edgar Thomas
Crandall, Elbert M.
Pen.nee, Richard C.
Currie Norton Woodbridge
Porter, George Nelson, P. M.
Elliott, Charles Arthur Nelson
Riley, James
Evans, Isaac Henry
RuBBell, Thomas John
Follansbee, Roscoe, P. M.
Settree, William James
George, James
Smith, Isaac Ward, P. M.
Goudge, Henry
Smith, John Alexander, P. M.
Gregory, Henry
Smith, William Henry
Greiner, Frederick William
Snowden, Paul Ward
Hooper, James
Stratton, Daniel Edgar
Joy, Walter Frank
Tyte, Charles Thomas
Keith, Charles Peter, P. M.
Vail, Herbert Eugene, P. M.
Keith, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Ware, Erner Ferris
Kemp, Edwin
White, Jeffries
Laramore, William Edgar
Williams, Dan Edwin
--44
Leahy, Richard John

NATOMA LODGE, No. 64.

•

Folsom, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Turner Hesser, Master,
Geo. Philip Gerber, Ben. Deacon,
Wm. Anthony Simmons, Senior W., Samuel Dowdin, Junior Deacon,
Hans C. J. R. Clemenson, .Tun. W.,
Philip Charles Ccihn, Marshal,
Eclward Stone Blair, Steward,
Edward Rogers Levy, Treasurer,
Ray Dudley McFarland, Secretary, William Robert Bean, Steward,
George Imhoff, Tyler.
Jacob Broder, Chaplain,

96

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Imhoff, George
Barrett, Josiah Russell
Joerger, ·Joseph
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Keefe, Robert
Bauer, Gustav Adolph
King, John Henry
Beau, William Robert
Klumpp, Louis Frederick
Bell, Charels Andrew
Levy, Edward Rogers
Blair, Edwin Stone
McFarland, Ray Dudley
Blanchard, John Ernest, P. M.
Mette, Henry
Brobst, James Lorenzo
Miller, Emil
Broder, Jacob
Miller, Oscar Jacob
Broder, Jacob Jr.
Burnham, Frederick Parker, P. M. Mills, Robert Trimble
Mourse, Beverly Stephen
Burnham, James Henry1 P. M.
Parks, Leonard Nelson
Calder, William
Cater, George Peter
Plumb, William Boardman
Clemensen, Hans Christian J. R.
Powell, John . Henry
Prigmore, Joseph Riley
Cohn, Philip Charles, P. M.
Rantz, William Addison'
Daggett, Martin Van Buren
Dowdin, Samuel
Riddle, Jerry Boggs
Drullinger, James William
Scott, John Brown
Dunkley, Louis Palmer
Simmons, William Anthony
Ecklon, Charles Henry, P. M
Smith, Nels Peter
Ecklon, Christian Ludwig, P. M.
Stamper, Simon, P. M.
Ecklon, Christian Frederick
Staunton, Frederick William
Ecklon, Lorenz Gottfried
Sylar, George William
Fiel, Isaac
Thompson, Irving
Gabriel, John Henry
Trentman, Henry John
Gerber, George Philip
Wahrhaftig, Peter Samuel
Hagadorn, Samuel Asa
Waites, William John
Hall, Harry William, P. M.
Wiley, David Elbridge
Hesser, George Turner, P. M.
Winterberg, Gustav Conrad
Hollingsworth, Lewis Washington Wubbena, Nicholas Gerrett
Iberson, .George Thadius
Yoerk, Frederick Albert
-64.

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.
Jackson, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesdays of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Richard Church Rust, Mast.er,
Robert Ousby, Senior Deacon,
Jay Fremont Wilson, Senior W.,
George Tucker, Junior Deacon,
Luke Joseph Glavinovich, Jun. W., John Ould, Marshal,
John Henry Langhorst, Treasurer, Nathan Pierson Williams, Rteward,
James Edward Dye, Secretary,
Edwin James Trevaskis, Steward,
William Tuson, Chaplain,
John Guisto, Tyler.

ROSTER.

9i

MEMBERS:
Ilagneschi, Luigi
Belluomini, Giovanni
Bianchetti, Bartolomeo
Bole, Robert Chambers, P. M.
Brown, George Washington
Caminetti, Anthony
Campbell, John Dow
Condit, James Henry
Cooledge, Walter Scott
Detert, William Ferdinantl
DiVecchio, Liberatio
Dornan, Geor.ge Franklin
Dry, Donald Hume
Duden, Frank Harmon
Dye, James Edward, P. M.
Dye, James Edward Jr.
Eddy, Edward
Eudey, Alexander
Farnsworth, Eldridge Calvin
Gall, Alexander Marshall, P. M.
Geirmann, Charles
·
Glavinovich, Luke Joseph
Giusto, John
Goldsworthy, Richard Alfred
Harrington, Emerson Hull
Harris, James, P. M.
Harvey, William James
Hi~ks, Thomas
·
Keagle, Lorentes Nevin
Kent, Walter Edwin, P. M.
Kerr, Robert Ira, P. M.
Langhorst, John Henry
Laughton, James Augustine, P. M.
Lin<Uey, Curtis Holbrook
Mace, Fayette ·
Mack, Daniel
Matson, Myron Shaw, P. M.
Marcucci, Paolo

Mattly, David
McFarland, William K.
Michelotti, Carlo
Newman, George
Newman, Leopold
Ousby, Robert
Osborne, Henry
Ould, John, P. M.
Parker, Clarence Frederick
Parker, Frederick Wardner
Parks, James Franklin
Pascoe, Richard Henry
Penry, William Milton
Peter, William DeWitt
Radovich, Nichola
Reichling, Peter
Roberts, P~illip
Rugne, Raphael
;Ruhser, Frederick William
Rust, Richard Church, P. M.
Spagnoli, Diovol Benedetto, P. M.
Spagnoli, Sylvester G., P. M.
Spagnoli, Urbano G. D.
Samuels, Joseph
Stewart, Robert James
Taylor, Frank Augustus
Taylor, James Ernest
Taylor, Walter Howard
Tibbits, James Hiller
Tretheway, John
Tuson, William
'fucker, George
Trevaskis, Edwin James
Williams Nathan Pierson
Wilson, Jay Fremont
Woehrle, Gottlieb
Zumbiel, Edwin V.

-75

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.

MEMBERS:
Fitzgerald, William Wesley
Adams, Silas Plympton
Fiola, Frank Joseph
Atwood, John Perry
Fletcher, Williard Franklin
Atwood, Leroy Smith
Fowler, Weldon Mason
Aubry, Alvin Emansua
Freitas, Joseph B., P. M.
Bacheller, Ralph Milford
Fyfe, Joseph Sr.
Baldwin, Calvin Pryor
Gersbacher, Joshua Barre
Ball, Charles
Gibson, Edward
Barber, Frank Wilton
Grattan, John
Bainbridge, James Absalom
Gross, William Walter
Baker, Clarence Clark
Grunsky, Eugene Moriz
Barkis, Henry Bruce
Grupe, George Washington
Bauer, Herman
Hardy, Fred
Beasley, Charles
Harkness, George Sumner
Bennett, Paul Wetherly
Hart, Charles B.
Berka, John
Harry, Charles Reese
Bessac, Henry William Jr.
Hawthorn, John Bradford
Blake, George Shepherd
Hedges, Edward Richard, P. M.
Bonney, John Allen
Boyer, Thomas Alexander
Henderson, Orrin Staples, P. G. M.
Henderson, Milton Pierce
Brandt, Charles Henry William
Hickman, Edward
Briggs, Hubert Hamilton
Hickox, Flavil Gaylord
Brooks, Alexander William
Hodgkins, Sidney Newell
Brown, Philip Thomas
Holt, Pliny Eastman
Buckley, William Duncan
Hornage, George
Butters, Edgar Warren, P. M.
Howe, Charles Edward
Buttrick, George Howe, P. M.
Howland, Oliver Melville
Calhoun, Soltan Frederick, P. M.
Hudson, George Francis,P. M.
Campbell, Henry Riley
Hull, Octavius Haymond
Campbell, Joseph Claybaugh
Hull, Charles Edward
Carson, Edgar Consider
Israel, ~,rank Sh.e rman, P. M.
Castle, Durrett Oliver, P. M.
Catts, George Elbert
Jenkins, Edward Earl
Conditt, Philip Martin
Jones, Stephen Keniston
Cross, Samuel Nelson
Jones, Charles Arch
Dameron, John Dysarte
Jory, John
Jordon, Freeman Young
Daugherty, Henry Simon
Derr, John Obediah
Kay, Joseph
Keagle, Adelbert Grant
Ditz, George
Dodge, Horace Francis, P. M
Kenyon, Percy
Kennedy, Hallie Charles
Dunbar, Joshua Cottrell
Keyes, Henry Calcutt, P. M.
Dunlap, Frank Everett, P. M.
Kidd, James Edward
Duncan, Carey Ross
Earson, John William
ri..night, Henry Leland
Eddy, John Henry
Knight, Robert Britham
Krog, Peter Christian
Ea~ly, Clarence Erwin

98

Alleghany, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Hugh Roderick McDougal, Master, Chester Warren Brown, Senior D.,
Fred. Augustave Locey, Sen. W.,
Frank Davis, Junior Deacon,
Charles Binning, Junior Warden,
Henderson LaF. Johnson, Marshal,
Trevor T. Rowlands, Treasurer,
John Folk Owens, Steward,
Ezra Leroy Crafts, Secretary,
Henry Wm. Louis Kinkle, Steward,
Dan McKinzie, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Appel, Harrison
Brown, Chester Warren
Brown, Horace H.
Brown, Walter Calvin
Binning, Charles
Crafts, Ezra Leroy
Deisem, Charles S.
Ellis, Thomas
Fitzgerald, Andrew
Fitzgerald, Walter
Fitzgerald, John James
Goodwin, James Willis
Hinkle, Henry Lewis William
Hockelberg, Bernard
Irvine, Leonard, P. M.
Jenkins, 'Thomas Henry
Johnson, He~derson L., P. M.

Locey, Frederick Augustave
Martin, George C.
McGregor, James
McDougal, Hugh Roderick
Mcintosh, Charles Hugh
McKenzie, Daniel
Meiley, Manuel Augustus
Owens, John Foulk
Pattison, Thomas Adkins
Pilond, Edward
Raymond, Daniel Hobbart
Reilly, James D.
Rowlands, Trevor T.
Voge, Henry
Wheeler, William R. Morrison
Wylie, Michael Galloway, P. M.

-33

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Luke William Peart, Master,
Henry William Bessac, Senior D.,
Robert Brittain Knight, Ren. W.,
Charles Ball, Junior Deacon,
Hiram Francis F. Merrill, Jun. W., Edward Earl Jenkins, Mar'lhal,
Fred. Macondray West, Treasurer, Hubert Hamilton Briggs, Steward,
John Obediah Derr, Secretary,
Frank Joseph Fiola, Stewa~d,
Charles Edward Howe, Tyler.

•

99

100

ROSTER.

Lane, Frank Ellis
LaRU:e, John Milton
Lang, Lewis Hawkins
Langridge, George Washington
Leistner, George Washington
Leffler, William Henry Ebenezer
Lwgo, Frank
Ludlow, William Berridge
Lyon, Lemuel Elisha
Lyon, William Herbert
Matthews, David Sterrett
Matteson, William Haskell
McCan, Francis Asbury
McGaughey, James DeLaskey
McKenzie, George Alexander, P. M
McLeod, Donald
Merrill, Hiram Francis F.
Meyer, Herman Carson
Michaels, Benjamin Keefe
Miller, John Henry, P. M.
Mittick, Walter ;Leslie
Moore, John William
Muenter, August Edward
Muller, Frederick William
Myrick, John Edward
Nicol, Frank David
Nilson, Charles August
Noble, Arthur Morgan
Noble, E<iward Banks
Neumiller, Charles Louis
:Nye, William Douglas
Oranges, Geremia
Patchen, Warren
Peart, Luke W.
Peterson, Charles John Benholdt
Petzinger, Anthony William
Philo, William Elisha
Powell, Barton Jerome
Pritchard, Vernon Perry, P. M.
Raggio, Peter
Ray, Daniel Francis
Reid, Robert Asa
Rhodes, Allen Lee
Rice, Charles Eddy
Robbins, Henry Ephraim, P. M.

ROSTER.

Roberts, Edward
Robinson, Isaac Newton
Roe, Joseph William
Rolerson, Benjamin Franklin
Ross, Ishabod Olmstead
Russell, Richard William
Ryland, Samuel Vinton
Salbach, Leopold Frederick
Sampson, Charles Selestine
Schneider, George Louis
Seeley, John Whitney
Senter, Willis Riley
Sibley, Walter Frank
Six, Clarence Logan
Smith, William James
Southrey, John Nicholas
Southworth, Henry Edgar
Stamper, Louis Oscar
Starkweather, Ruben Edw1ml
Stewart, Edward Clement
Spooner, John Pitcher Jr.
Swain, Joseph Henry
Taggart, Henry Wallace
Trefry, A very Piper
Tripp, William Osial
Tschierschky, E. M. Louis
Turner, George Clinton
Valentine, Frank Eugene
Waddle, George Albert
Wagner, Solomon
Watters, William Hall
Weber, August Frederick William
West, Frederick Macondray, P. M.
Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Wilson, Robert Finlay
Williams, Arthur Reese
Williams, Ansel Smith
Williams, John Robert
Woolner, Frederick William
Woolsey, William
Wright, James Rae
Yardley, John, Sr., P. M.
Young, Albert William
Young, John Franklin
-171.l

101

ENTERPRISE LODGE, No. jo.
Yuba City, Sutter County.

•

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon .
OFFICERS:
William Rennie Carpenter, Master, Wm. Francis Bird, Senior Deacon,
Ferdinand Starr Wilkie, Sen. W., James Hunter Wilkie, Junior Deac.,
Hugh Dixon Moncur, Junior Ward., William Henry Chism, Marshal,
George Wash. Carpenter, Treas.,
Karl Purvis Wilkie, Steward,
Dallas Damon Green, Secretary,
Eugene Marvin Boyd, Steward,
Ogilvie Moncur, Tyler.
Clyde Banta Harter, Chaplain,

•

•

•

ME;MBERS:
Cope, Harry Laverne
Ashley, Lloyd C.
Ashley, Jay W., P. M.
Cuddeback, Edson N.
Campbell, Benjamin Getty
Ashley, Luther
Bailey, Arthur
DeWitt, William Golder
Bailey, George Washington
Duncan, John Lewis
Barrett, Eu.g ene T.
Ensign, Frank Milo
Barrett, Walter Lee
Featherly, Edward Washington
Bayne, Richard, P. M.
Ferguson, Thoma:J Henry
Benchley, William Wallace
Fields, Charles Beccom
Fraser, Samuel
Best, Henry
Bird, Will Francis
Freeman, Laverne Lewis
Galbraith, Thomas Arthur
Boyd, Eugene Marvin
Brandstatt, John Nelson
Gilpatric, Frank Judah
Bremer, August Gustave
. Gottwals, William
Britton, Richard
Grant, Alexander Drummoi:wl Jr.
Brockman, John Henry
Graffis, Alonzo, P. M.
Burgess, Chester Crowell
Gray, James Care
Burgett, Oliver Perry, P. M.
Green, Dallas Damon, P. M.
Carpenter, George Washington,P. M. Griffith, Irwin
Carpenter, William Rennie
Guddal, Louis James
Chadwick, Larkin Hopkins
Hauss, Ferdinand
Chism, William Henry
Haynes, James
Clements, William Andrew
Heiken, Henry Bantas
Clark, Howard Clifton, P. M.
Heiken, Robert William
Clyma, Thomas Sanford
Heiken, John Bantas
Coats, William Alexander
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson
Hewitt, Arthur Hathaway, P. M.
Coats, Mack Colvin
Connell, Michael
Hull, Theodore Benson
Humphrey, William Emory
Cooper, Frederick
Cope, Leroy Johnstone
Harter, Clyde Banta, P. M.
Cutts, Albert David
Hughes, John Tomilson
Clark, He.nry Wilmoth
Hansen, John Henry

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

102
Haynes, James Lewis
Hamlin, Francis A.
Howlett, John Marion
Hendrick, Robert Calvin
Jacks, John
Kells, Robert Cornelius
Kersey, Thomas Saverree
Kimball, George Herbert
Kline, Charles Greer
Kofod, Edward Alfred
Kline, Claude Cecil
Kimball, John Franklin
Lamme, John Hamilton
Lathrop, George Washington
Littlejohn, James
Littlejohn, James Abraham
Magruder, George Henry
Mahon, Kirby Smith
Matteson, Charles
Mccready, Edward John
McLaughlin, Alexander Campbell
McRae, Alexander Arthur
McRoberts, William George
McVey, Thomas Fletcher
McQuaid, Charles Edward, P. M.
McLean, Duncan James
Moncur, Ogilvie
Moon, Richard Albert
Moncur, i:Iugh Dixon
Myers, John Henry
Noyes, Fred Buzzell
Onstott, Fred Arthur
Onstott, John Paxton, Sr.
Onstott, John Paxton Jr., P. M.
Onstott, Jacob Glen
Orr, James Emanuel
Pease, Charles Harris
Pease, George Harris
Peck, William Francis
Pool, Anthony Wayne
Ripley, Charles Jackson

Rowe, Pleasant William
Sanborn, Miles Edward, P. M.
Saye, George Marion
Schellenger, Edmond Tift
Schellenger, Adelbert Edmond
Schillig, Lawrence, P. M.
Schillig, Bennett
Schmidt, Erich
Schuessler, Henry Herman
Schuessler, Louis Edward
Schuler, Conrad
Sheldon, Charles Munson
Smith, William Parkhurst, P. M.
Soderlund, Noack
Starr, Edward Butler
Starr, Roy Deboise
Suggett, Luke Timothy
Summy, Leonidas
Walton, Frank Starr, P. M.
Walton, Benjamin Franklin
Walton, Fred Day
Walton, George
Walton, Hiram Aaron
Walton, Leonard Arthur, P. M.
Walton, Oscar Milton
Walton, Richard
Ward, Charles Webster
.Weslar, Willard Howard
Wilcoxon, Baxter Allen
Wilkie, Ferdinand Starr
Wilkie, James B.
Wilkie, James Hunter
Wilkie, Karl Purvis
Wilbur, Lloyd Hamilton
Williams, Clayton Elsworth, P. M.
Williston, Elijah William
Wilson, Wesley Thomas
Wilson, William Clay
Wood, Job Kettles
Woodworth, Louis Hedley, P. M.
Woodworth, Arthur Gustavus
-146.

BEAR MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 76.
Angel's Camp, Calaveras County.

•

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next -preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Lawrence Gale Sweetland, Master, John Alfred Orr, Senior Deacon,
George Rose, Senior Warden,
Albert C. Wilson, Junior Deacon,
George 0. Parker, Junior Warden, Charles Otto Engstrom, Marshal,
·warren Rose, Treasurer,
Bert Gazzolo, Steward,
John Cooley, Secretary,
William Mfoard, Steward,
Ira Grant Hambleton, Chaplain,
Richard Tucker, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

•

•

\

•

Anderson, James Fitzgerald, P. M. Garrard, Woodson, P. M.
Gazzolo, Bertolomer
Arendt, Michael
Gazzolo, Columbo James
Allen, Theophilus
Gibson, Wallace John
Adair, Charles Francis, P. M.
Goodloe, Peyton Verbannus
Barden, Harry Roswell
Graebe, Alfred Eugene
Beedle, Frederick Charles
Hancock, John
Belloni, Mark John Baptist
Hambletan, Ira G.
Blackhart, Fred Gray
Herzberg, August
Blood, Harvey Spaulding, P. M.
Higgins, Charles William
Boarman, Charles
Hoga.te, Samuel Carter
Bothwell, David Milton
Hoppin, Toddeus Lincoln
Brevin, William Henry
Howell, Morton Temple
Brin, Richard Morris
Huberty, George
Brower, William Henry
Jensen, Rasmus Christian
Carley, John Hensley
Johnson, Charles Albert
Carlson, Charles Henry
Kavanaugh, John
Christensen, Christen Peter
Kuhnen, Andrew
Clough, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Lane, Charles David
Cochran, George Thomas
Lane, Thomas Travis
Cooley, John
Lagomarsino, James
Davis, Jefferson J.
Lagomarsino, John Peter
Davey, William
Lanthier, Charles Earl
D!lvey, Thomas Henry
Lillie, Charles Andrew
Demarest, David Durie
Loring, William Joseph
Diggles, Robert Newton
·Lockman, Francis William
Dolling, Otto
Dorroh, John R.
Madson, Arthur Gustave
McBride, Charles Jophes
Drew, Edwin
McKay, James
Emery, William Wayne
McLaughlin, James Henry
Engstrom, Charles Olof
McTarnahan, Carroll
Freeman, Charles Henry
Miller, Valentine William
Fentress, Leslee Hoke
Gardner, Roberf
Minard, William

-.

103

104

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Rose, George·
Rose, Warren
Ross, Robert Hall
Scofield, Regenald
Smith, Thomas N., P. M.
Spindel, Stephen
Surrwhittard, Ernest Alfred
Sweetland, Lawrence Gale
Thomas, George Watson
Thomas, Ellis Irvine
Tucker, Richard
Wall, James Tillman
Waterman, William Louis
Weirich, Elmer Williams
Wilson, Albert Crail

Monte, Verda Lawrence
Morgans, Philip Morgan
Mosgrove, William A.
Orr, John A.
Parker, George 0.
Paterson, George Wesley
Perine, Joseph Fulg.enzio
Porter, John Thomas, P. M.
Prothers, Albert
Quinn, Thomas Francis
Ratz, Frederick Henry
Rayall, Andi:ew
Reaves, John Edward
Reitcliffe, Henry
Riedel, Belthaser
Roberts, Samuel Augustus

•

~1.

CALAVERAS LODGE, No. 78.
San Andreas, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John William Deitz, Master.
George A. Stewart, Senior Ward.,
Henry Wesson, Junior Warden,
Gilbert Pfortner, Treasurer,
Enos F. Floyd, Secretary,
James Keith, Chaplain,

Roberts, Orvis
Salcido, Ernest
Salcido, Javier,.
Schrack, Henry Clay
Shepard, Mark A., P. M.
Snyder, Jacob Philip, P. M
Snyder, Charles Peter
Bolinsky, Frank Joseph, P. M
Stewart, George Allen
Thorn, Abbott Goddard
Tilden, Joseph Chester
Treat, William Thomas
Vogelgesang, Frederick Roancak
Vogelgesang, Gustave Daniel
Wallace, William Addison, P. M
Walter, Charles Francis
Waters, John, P. M.
Waters, George Christopher
Wells, Frank Clinton
Wesson, Henry
Welch, William W.
Wyllie, Alfred Loring
-73.

•

Dante A. Dasso, Senior Deacon,
Charles F. Walter, Jun. Deacon,
George H. Hendrick, Marshal,
Frank C. Wells, Steward,
Ernest Krenty, Steward,
Abbott G. Thorn, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Deitz, John William
Agostini, Jules Joseph
Del Re, Henry
Anderson, Anthony, P. M.
Domenghini, Casemere
Bacigaluppi, John Augu•tino
Edwards, David Bartlett
Baker, John Donald
Emery, Earle Caldwell
Beal, Charles Robert, P. M.
Evans, Job Montgomery
Beal, Frederick Nathaniel
..,Floyd, Eno11 Franklin
Borger, Christian
Ford, William Mitchell
Casey, William, P. M.
Friedberger, Arnold
Cassinelli, David
Gargadenic, Coronto, Geo. Joseph
Casey, Edward
Graves, George Christian, P, M.
Cavagnaro, David Amile
Halley, John Joseph, P. M.
Cavagnaro, Nicola Joseph
Hendrick, George Hugh
Coulter, William Shinn
Holland, Judson Arthur, P. M.
Dasso, Dante Adolphus

Jack, James Sylvanus
Jenkins, Hezekiah
Keith, James, P. M.
LaRiviere, Wilbrun Eugene
Lewis, Samuel Joseph
Loefiler, Ernest Walter
Lucas, James Bennett
:March, William Bright
March, Irwin Beede
:Messenger, Hiram Ashley, P. M.
:Messenger, Nelson Cyrus
Mitchell, William Henry
Nelson, Edmund
Nuland, J_ames Andrew
Nuner, William Marble Jr.
Pattee, John Kellog Jr.
Pattee, Frank Benjamin
Pfortner, Gilbert
Preston, Charles
Raggio, Joseph
Raggio, John
Redmond, Samuel Edwin
Roberts, David E., P. M .

105

HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79.
Eureka, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Geo. Alfred Cochrane, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Milton Metcalf, Jun. Deacon,
Edward Bockenstose, Marshal,
Alexander Rankin, Steward,
James Thomas Fraser, Steward,
William D. McKay, Tyler.

Trustom Ring Dinsmore, Master,
Ernest Aug. Cockburn, Sen. Ward.,
Cyril Ernest Bland, Jun. Warden,
Charles Frederick Roberts, Treas.,
James Berry Brown, Secretary,
Robert Dale Clark, Chaplain,

•

•

Albee, George Brinton, P. M
Albee, Roswell Hitchcock
Andersen, Sigwald
Anderson, Andrew William
Anderson, Charles John
Anderson, Oscar
Andresen, Anders Olsen

MEMBERS:
Axe, Frederick
Backenstose, Edward
Backens, John Emil
Barnard, James Edwin
Barnum, Frank Gorham
Batnum, Frederick Benj.
Bartlett, Samuel Pyam

106
Becker, Charles
Belcher, George Amherst
Belcher, Peter ·
Bell, Aaron Hayden
Benson, Edwin G.
Berry, Frank Davis
Bjornsen, Karl Selliken
Bland, Cyril Ernest
Bonifield, Samuel
Bonstell, Edgar Boynton
Boyd, David Adair
Bosrdbent, Sherman
Bridges, Henry James
Brown, James Berry, P. M.
Brown, William
Bullock, Nathaniel
Burch, Elmer Lee
Burnell, Lewis Melvin
Burns, Paul Milton
Cameron, James Bruce
Campbell, Elmore Pierce
Carlson, Charles Peter
Carson, Charles Sumner
Carson, George
Carson, John Milton
Carson, Thomas
Carson, William
Cave, Henry Alfred
Chain, John N.
Chapman, Emery Jonathan
Chapman, Stewart James
Christie, George Maxwell
Clark, Robert Dale
Clendenen, Francis Arthur
Clink, Morris
Clyborne, W. Frank, P. M.
Cochrane, George Alfred
Cockburn, Ernest Augustus
Coggeshall, Walter
Colwell, Charles Everitte
Colwell, Maynard Rufus
Conant, Edward
Connick, Clifton Horace
Cooper, Edgar Clarence
Copland, Robert
Cottrell, Emile Lester

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Cottrell, John Austin, P. M.
Coyne, Franklin Boyer
Craig, John Alexander
Crockett, John William
Cutler, Thomas Barnes, P. M
Cutten, Charles Pryde
Dickson, James
Dinkelspiel, Adolph
Dinsmore, John Stinson
Dinsmore, Trustom Ring
Doe, Herman S.
Dorais, Louis Pierre
Douglas, George Carlton
Douglas, Harmon Lory
Drew, Charles Augustus
Dungan, Garland Albert
Eddy, John Matheson
Edwards, Sylvanus David
Ellis, Charles Starr
Elsner, Charles Henry
Elster, Peter
Engebretsen, Frederick
Falor, Charles Henry
Fanning, John Angus
Fay, Nahum
Felt, Rae, P. M.
Ferguson, Chester Edward
.Ferguson, Frank Ellsworth
1',erguson, George M.
Ferguson, James
Forsey, Joseph Robert
Foster, Seth Burnham
Fowler, Alexander
Fraser, James Thomas
.l<'rost, Elmer James
Fulmor, Alexander Chope
Fulmore, Fenwicke William
Gale, James Cloyd
Gallop, John Thomas
Gault, James Henry
Geer, Knyphausen, P. M.
Gimmell, Walter Scott
Glatt, August Edward
Graham, Henry Albert
Graham, Wesley Charles
Gregor, Otto Clayton

•

..
•

•

Griffiths, Griffith, P. M.
Loewenthal, Jacob, P. M.
Gross, Reuben
Loofbourrow, Thadeus L.
Gundersen, Tonnes
Lothrop, Luther Ramsdell
Hall, Charles Wellington
Madsen, Henry
Hamilton, Herbert Weed
Manning, James Bennington
Hamilton, John
Marlin, Frank
Hanna, William Patterson
Matheson, Daniel
Hansel, Amos
Maurer, John Lester, P. M.
Harmon, Charles Treadwell
Maxwell, Sidney Alister
Haughey, Robert Lincoln
Maybin, Charles Hill
Hauptman, Sidney Morse
McCann, Charles Frederick
Henderson, George Youle
McCormack, James Madison
Henderson, James William
McCullens, David
Hendriksen, Bendix
Mccutcheon, Robert
Henningsen, Carl Frederick August. McDonald, John
Henry, John A.
McFarland; James
Henry, Robert
McGeorge, John Frederick, P. M.
Hetfield, Albert DeForrest
McGeorge, Peter
Hill, Edward John . ·
McGillivray, William
Hill, Randle
McKay, Richard
Hine, Thomas Walton
McKay, William
Hitchings, Andrew, P. M.
McKay, William D.
Hitchings, Charles Williard
McKeehan, Curtin Grant
Hollander, Siegfried
McKellar, Donald
Holmes, Robert
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre
Horner, Oscar Alonzo
McKeown, John
Hunter, Geo. Washington, P. G. M. McLellan, Walter Martain
Hurlbutt, Frank L.
McMillan, William John
Hutchins, Robert Walker
McNamara, Frederick William
Ingalls, George Lemuel
McNamara, William Alex.
Jensen, Christian Nicolaj
McNamara, William Jewett
Jensen, George Charles
McVicar, James
Johnson, Johan Adolph
Medill, Walter Pennock
Jones, Prentiss Mellen
Melendy, John Marvin, P. M .
Jones, Robert Lewis
Metcalf, Curtis Enoch
Kane, Alex.
Metealf, William Milton
Kehoe, William
Mitchell, John Herbert
Keller, Charles Frederick
Monroe, Joseph Warren
Kingsbury, Lewis Buoncore
Monroe, Alonzo Judson, P. M .
Lambert, William Lee
Morrison, Sanford Benton
Lange, Ernest Adolph
Murray, Hugh
Langford, George
Murray, John Sutherland, P. M.
Lee, Lewis Alfred
Nelson, Lars August
LeVasseur, William
Nessler, Alex. Magnus
Lever, Thompson R.
Nielsen, Niels Peter
Locke, George
Noble, Hugh James

107

108

Noe, Albert Conor
Noe, IDysses Jesse
Ohman, Adolph
Ohman, Hubert Ferdinand
Ohman, Ignatius Joseph
Ohman, Rudolph
Olsen, Hakon Erick
Olsson, Anders
Orpin, Charles
Palmtag, Christie Henry
Parker, Silas Wiley
Parker, Thomas
Pease, Fred Washburn
Percy, Edwin Hudson, P. M.
Perry, Bethune, P. M.
Persons, Louis, P. M.
Petch, Thomas Daniel
Pettingill, Edwin Foster, P. M.
Petty, Josiah
Pine, John Nelson
Pine, Norton ·Hiram
Pine, Safford Fay
Powell, Robert Baldwin
Pratt, Walter Henry
Price, James Howard
Rankin, Alex.
Ray, Winslow
Redmond, James
Redmond, John
Reinhart, Harry
Rice, Louis
Richmond, Thomas William
Robbins, Joseph Marcus Wyght
Roberts, Albert D.
Roberts, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Robinson, Fred, P. M.
Roethe, George Frederick
Root, Peter
Schorr, John

ROSTER.
Schwartz, Henry Augustue
Sedgley, Alfred Moffitt
Sinclair, John Archibald
Sinclair, Oliver Willard
Smart, Frederick Milton
Smith, Arthur M., P. M.
Smith, Robert Lee
Soule, Charles Parsons
Speegle, William Nelson
Steele, Samuel James
Stein, Augustus Frederik
Stewart, Warren May
Strong, Wallace Kaloea
Swanson, Albert
Tabor, William Henry
Taylor, Charles Gilford
Thompson, Albert Edward
Thompson, Hiram Freeman, P. M.
Torrey, Abner Wood, P. M.
Trott, George Washington
VanHovenberg, James Jacob
Ward, Walter Remus
Way, Arthur William
Weatherby, Albert Skiffington
Weaver, John H. G.
Webster, William Henry
Weiss, Joseph Jacob, P. M.
Wiley, Austin
Wilson, Emmet Wakeman
Wilson, John Elmer
Wilson, Thomas W.
Wing, William
Wise, Solomon
Woodcock, Hubert Hiram
Woodcock, Samuel Alex.
Wrigley, George Edward
Young, Robert
Zaddart, Frank Bernhard
Ziegler, Frank-276.

ROSTER.

IONE LODGE, No. 80.
Ione, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John William Joses, Master,
Wm. Wilson McCloskey, Sen. W.,
Herbert Alfred Woolsey, Jun. W.,
John Marchant, Treasurer,
Jacob Surface, Secretary,
John Dabney Perkins, Cha;>lain,

Eugene George Woolsey, Sen. D.,
Andrew Jackson Wood, Jun. D.,
John Whitten Surface, Marshal,
Jacob Newman, Steward,
Bernhard Hammer, Steward,
James Phillip Surface, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

..

Adams, Abner LaFayette, P. M.
Bennetts, William ~rthur
Crabtree, Isaac Jackson
Dawson, William Naaman
Diebold, Joseph Celestine
Dillian, Benjamin Franklin
Endicott, Edwin Eugene
Farnsworth, Junius, P. M.
Ford, Hiram Wilder
Free, Franklin
Hammer, Bernhard
Hammer, Michaelis
Heath, John Wesley, P. M.
Hoadley, George Thompson
Holman, Ira Newfield
Jones, Morris
Jordan, James
Johnson, Carleton H.
Joses, John William
Marchant, John, P. M.
Maestretti, Antonio
MacLean, John
McCloskey, William Wilson
McMurry, James William
Miner, Armstard Early

Newman, Jacob
Nixon, Lyman
Okel, Edward Joseph
Pardoe, Daniel Borden
Perkins, John Dabney, P. M.
Pease, Frank Marion
Randall, William Trafton
Ranlett, Horace Dodge
Ranlett, Arthur Grover
Ross, Benjamin George
Ruman, Charles August
Spencer, Sheldon
Surface, John Whitten, P. M.
Surface, James Phillip, P. M.
Surface, Jacob
Swift, Charles Stedman
Williams, James Henry, P. M.
Waddell, George Edwin
Waste, Harry Lotes
Woolsey, Eugene George, P. M .
Woolsey, Herbert Alfred
Woolsey, George
Wood Andrew Jackson
Yager, George John

109

110

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:

YOLO LODGE, No. 81.
Yolo, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Henry Hoppin, Mastrr,
Joseph Giguiere, Senior Deacon,
James Edward Scarlett, Sen. W.,
Andrew Gorman Morrow, Jun. D.,
Albert Michael Bemmerly, Jun. W., Charles Heriry Bork, Marshal,
John William Cannell, Treasurer,
Christen Martensen Tacker, Steward,
B ernard Borach, Secretary,
William Henry Plantz, Steward,
Samuel Lawrence Nutting, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bemmerly, Albert Michael, P . M.
Houx, Daniel Francis
Borach, Bernard
Houx, George R.
Bork, Charles Henry, P. M.
Levy, Armand Abraham
Bork, David Byron
Lundy, John Alfred
"Bower, John Guthler, P . .M.
Morrow, Arthur Gorman
Brown, John Scott
Myers, Edward Augustus, P. M.
Bullock, Fred Willson
Nutting, Samuel Lawrence
Cannell, John William, P. M.
Plantz, William Henry
Cassilis, William Watson
Price, William Enos, P. M.
Claussen, Ernest Augustine
Riley, Ely Davis
Cooper, Joseph T.
Root, John Marion
Cramer, Lewis
Scarlett, James Edward, P . M.
Curtis, Harry E.
Seltenheim, Herman
Giguiere, Joseph
Tacker, Christen Martensen
Hadley, William Charles
Taylor, John Z.
Hatcher, Columbus Washington
Wall, William Samuel
Hoppin, George Henry, P. M.
-33.

l

Allen, Frank Erskine
Anderson, August
Akers, Charles Duvall, P. M.
Bisbee, George Herman
Britt, Edward
Burry, Charles Robert
Cll.llenberg, Franncis Henry
Chappellet, Felix, Jr.
Chisholm, Kenneth, P. M. .
Clements, Styles Kennedy
Colburn, Frank Ellsworth, P. M.
Cowan, Gordon Robinson
Davies, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Davidson, Frederick Chester
Develey, Frederick Keyseur
Dodds, Thomas Joseph
Dolt, Alex., P. M.
Fay, George Howard
Ferguson, John Alex.
Foster, Stewart Ormsby
Garrison, George Howard
Grenell, William Henry, P. M.
Groves, Frank Millard
Holt, Michael Oscar
Jones, Henry
Kelley, James Thomas
LaRue, William Addison

Limmell, Edward Michael
Lowe, George Alex.
Lockwood, Lot Dean
Mambert, Cal Ruston
Meikle, Peter R., P. M.
Morehead, David Orland
Morehead, Andrew
McAulay, George
McAulay, Henry William
McAninch, John, P. M.
McKinley, Clarence Dennis
McDonald, Robert Emmet
' Nesbit, Napoleon Bonaparte
Power, Harold Thomas .
Power, Harold Morgan
Purinton, Frank Robert
Ray, Gilbert Florence
Rennet, Charles
Roumage, Frederick Schmidt
Runckel, George Henry, P. M.
Schwalenberg, Henry
Scherer, Frederick Peter
Smith, William
Smith, Frank Leslie
Smith, Leroy Ernest
Vucazovwich, Theodore
Welker, Jacob Lock-54.

VESPER LODGE, No. 84.

RISING STAR LODGE, No. 83.

Red Blu1f, Tehama County.

Forest Hill, Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full M1<'L.
OFFICERS :
. John Alex. Ferguson, Master,
Leroy Ernest Smith, Sen. Deacon,
Henry Jones, Senior Warden,
Frederick Scherer, Junior Deacon,
Frank Leslie Smith, Jun. Warden, Henry William McAulay, Marshal,
Charles Robert Burry, Treasurer, .
G12orge H. Bisbee, Steward,
Henry Schwalenberg, Secretary,
Jacob Lock Welker, Steward,
Andrew Morehead, Chaplain.
William Smith, Tyler.

111

OFFICERS:

•

Edward Knauss, Master,
Frank Lewis Doane, Sen. Warden,
Perry Odell Thomas, Junior Ward.,
Wm. Brower Cahoone, Treasurer,
Wm. Preston Johnson, Secretary,
James Henry Sharpe, Chaplain,

Marion Judson Cheatham, Sen. D.,
Ernest V. King,. Junior Deacon, ·
Frank Hendricks, Marshal,
Arthur Lee Conrad, Steward,
Charles Blanchard Week~, Steward;
Samuel Lewis, Tyler.

112

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Elmore, ~obert Hoyle
Allen, Glenn Loring, P. M.
Fahrion, Gustave W.
Andrews, Henry Parker
Fickert, William Charles
Archer, Charles Monroe .
Fish, Charles Erskine
Ballard, Curtis Durkee
Fish, Lafayette, Jr.
Barham, James Louis, P. M.
Fish, William Andrew, P. M.
Bates, Edgar John
Foster, John Henry
Beck, Joseph
Belcher, William Joseph
Fouke, Frank Joseph
Bonnard, Paul
Gardner, Elias Delevan, P. M.
Boole, Frank Arthur
Gilson, Thomas .A.mos
Boone, Nathaniel Isaiah
Goehring, .A.dam
Bransford, Walter Lee, P. M.
Harvey, Joseph Henry
Healy, Lucius Bonaparte
Brooks, Hyatt C.
Brown, .A.ncil Lycurgus
Heaton, Nathaniel T.
Brown, John.Wesley, P. M.
Hendricks, Frank, P. M.
Burtt, George Lucius
Hesse, Charles
Bush, John Stuart
Hillhouse, John Clayton
Butler, Benjamin Aaron
Howell, Thomas Franklin
Cahoone, William Brower
Jelly, Frank Lee
Campbell, Charles .A.bijah
Johnson, William Preston, P. M.
Jones, George Thomas
Campbell, Charles B.
Campbell, Remembrance Hughes
King, Ernest V.
Kintgen, Henry
Casale, Joe Isadore
Chase, Guy Horatio
Knauss, Edward
Cheatham, Marion Judson
Lamb, James Herman
Coffman, Pelham Howard
Lewis, Samuel
Cohn, .A.lex.
Lightfoot, Daniel Prime
Conrad, Arthur Lee
Lucas, James Paris
Conner, Allen Howard
Mayhew, Horace Allen
Cox, William Harvey, P. M.
Mc.A.mis, George Rose
Crumrine, Barritt
McCoy, .A.lex. McKean
Crumrine, Romeyn Ezra
McCoy, Galen Clark
Curtis, Charles C.McCoy, Leo Lewis
Darrough, Charles Henry, P. M.
McCullugh, David Herbert
Davenport, John S.
McLaren, James
Day, Jerome Wallace, P. M.
Miller, Frank Reid
Day, Thomas George
Moors, Oliver Edgerton
DeHaven, David Hall
Murphy, Sylvanus Everett
DePierrie, Wesley Smith
Nice, Herbert Wesley
Doane, Frank Lewis
Noble, Frederick Scott
Doane, Scott
Nollman, George, P. M.
Downer; George Curtis, P. M.
North, Edwin Byron
Dozier, John Newton
Norvell, Robert Marcus
Eichelberger, RObert Dudley
Olson, Adolph·
Ellison, John Francis, P. M.
Owen, Joseph Allen

ROSTER.

•

Ransom, Frank Henry
Richart, Henry Charles, P. M.
Rogers, James Birney
Rose, John Durand
Roseland, Ole Oscar
Schoeafeld, Solomon David
Schofield, George Lewis
Schubert, Eugene Washington
Shade, Reuben .A.lor
Sharpe, James Henry
Smith, Charles Wib1on
Spann, ·Walter Cromwell
Stice, Henry Peter, P. M.
Stivers, George Lincoln
Stivers, Henry Fox, P. M.
Stram, William
Stoddard, William Seward
Swain, Henry Clinton, P. M.

Swain, Theodore Slavin
Taylor, Ulysses Grant
Thomas, Perry Odell
Thompson, William Spinney
Ulrey, Silas E.
Vestal, Francis Asberry
Vestal, George Wems
Vestal, Rolla
Walbridge, Edgerton Byron
West, John M.
White, George Allen
Wiedemann, Louis Carl F.
Wiendieck, Herman Henry
Willard, George Kittridge
Wilson, Arthur David
Wilson, Luther Cavil
Worley, William Henry
Zimmerman, Harris Haskal-126.

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
Vallejo, Solano County.
State Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Alexander Greig, Master,
John Grant Symington, Sen. D.,
Wm. Henry Mitchell; Senior W.,
Charles Edward Turner, Jun, D.,
Glen Deane Dickey, Junior Ward., Walter "Ayling, Marshal,
Henry Lincoln Halliday, Treasurer, John Lauson Moore, Steward,
Oliver Chas. Newman, Secretary,
George Jackson Hunt, Steward,
George Rounds, Chaplain,
Alvin Newton Robinson, '.l.'yler.

•

•

MEMBERS:
.A.den, Melchart Remmers
Belling, Walter
.A.den, Remmer Johan Remmers
Belling, .Henry
.A.den, Henry Joseph
Bennetts, Thomas Henry
Aitken, James Pemberton
Bergwall, GUstaf Adolph, P. M.
Andrews, William
Beveridge, David Forney
Armstrong, John James, P. M.
Bissland, Duncan Colville
Ashwell, Charles
Bluett, Edward
Ayling, Walter
Boll, Charles John
Bangle, George Edgar
Bond, Frederick Taylor
Basney, Oscar
Bostick, John Benton
Baumgartner, John Edward
Bradley, Edward .A. .
Begbie; Richard
Braunagel, Henry
8

ll3

114

Brown, Walter Scott
Brownlie, John
Brownlie, William, P. M.
Brownlie, James
Bushnell, Charles Richard
Caldwell, Francis Marion
Campbell, Frank Joseph
Carman, Ambrose Sherman
Carman, Clyde Davenport
Carter, George Valentine, P. M.
Cassady, Ralph Leslie
Chandler, Henry Walker
Christiansen, Charles Jacob
Christolos, John
Church, Robert B.
Cilley, Miner Henry
Clark, William Henry
Cleghorn, George Arthur
Cleghorn, Robert Bryden
Clemes, Richard
Clifford, Samuel Thomas
Cogswell, Frederick Ludovica
Conroy, David
Copper, Samuel Arthur
Cuthbertson, Walter Jones
Dale, Joshua Benton
Dallyn, Charles Edward
Dannenbaum, Isaac
Dannenbaum, Sam
Dannenbaum, Solomon
Davis, Charles Henry
Davis, David Llewellyn
Debolt, Charles
· Deininger, Jacob Frederick
Dickey, Glen Deane
Drake, Frank
Dumbrell, James William
Edgecumbe, E gbert Edwin
Edgecumbe, George Wentworth
Ehlers, Peter Ferdinand
Emms, Charles
En Young Charles
Esborn, Homer
Fabiansen, Alex.
Falk, Emil
Farmer, Robert Wilson

ROSTER.
Fischer, August Ernest
Gedge, William Kelly
Greenwood, James Alfred
Greig, Alex.
Grimes, Peter Dingle, P. M.
Groff, Frederick
Grove, Jeane Angelo
Guffy, Newton Booth
Gustavson, Ernest Alexis
Hall, Frederick Winslow, P. M.
Halliday, Henry Lincoln
Hammar, Alrick
Hanson, Arthur Ferdinand
Hauson, Eugene Waldron
Hanson, David Mark
Harding, John Henry
Harrier, Daniel Webster
Hartman, Alvin Andreas
Har.sler, John Charles
Haupt, Oscar
Heath, Charles Richard
H eegler, Fred Henry
Herbert, George Arthur
Hilton, Osgood Harold
Hind, William McKenzie
Hood, John
Hood, Robert, P. M.
Huckins, Albertine, P . M.
Hunt, George Jackson
Hurt, James Arthur
Huston, Elwood Branham
Irven, Walter. Lynch
Janda, James
Johnson, OLto
Johnson, Otto Julius
Jones, Ivor Edward
Jones, \.Villiam Alex., P. M. ·
Kaarsberg, Lawrence C. H., P. M.
Kellar, Charles Philipi
Kenneson, Moody Dodge
Killam, Frank Nelson
King, William Roscoe
Kinsey, Frank Joseph, P. M.
Koltz, Bernard Johann
Koltz, Gustave Oscar
Kropp, John Richard

ROSTER.

..

•

..

•

•

fo\ndram, Clarence Elmer
Leach, Frank Aleman
Le1witt, Lorenzo Bailey
Lee, Harry
Leonard, George Darwin
Levee, Sarjah M.
Lindauer, Arthur Sigmund
Lin<istrom, William
Luchsinger, John Jacob, P. M.
Lutgens, Adolph Charles Frederick
Macdonald, Angus Edwin
Major, John James
Mdcolm, Johu George
Mann, Orville Grant
Marshall, Elmer Ellsworth
Martin, James Lewis
Martin, John Henry
Mathesen, Manuel
McDaid, AleL, P. M.
M~Donnell, Johr. Edmund
:Mcintosh, David
Mc>Kenney, Charles Daniel
McKnight, Samuel J!'meu
McLees, Edmund, P. M.
McPike, Andrew Jackson, P M.
Merriman, Edward
Miller, Theodore Leon
Milman, Arthur
.Mini, Damiani
Miui, John Baptist
Mitchell, Henry John
Mitchell, William Henry
Monroe, Joseph Wellington
Moran, ·Owen
Moore, John Lauson
Muiehead, Thomas
Muiehead, Thomas, Jr.
Munro, Donald, P. M.
Murray, Patrick
Nelson, James
Nelson, Martin
.
Newman, Oliver Charles
Norbey, Peter Oliver
Noyes, Elmer Ellsworth
Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett
O'Brien, Maurice John'

0 'Hara, John Henry
Olander, Herman Knut
Oliver, Thomas
Ovlr.n, Uno Theodore
Paterson, James
Patterson, .James Hunter
Payson, Carter Noyes
Pennycook, William Dick
Peoples, Bert Raymond
Persson, Ernest John
Peterson, James Carl
Piercy, James
Pippin, Arthur Michael
Plaisted, George Pomeroy
Plymire, James Adams
Pohlmann, William Henry
Powell, James Henry
Pracht, Charles August
Pratt, Daniel Arastus
Ramm, Peter
Reehenmacber, Ferdinand
Richardson, Henry Douglas
Rippetoe, James Jacob
Robinson, Alvin Newton
Roperto, Gaietano
Bose, August Fred. Christopher
Rossow, Ernest Prederiek
Ro1rnd11, George, P. M.
Rule, George Alex.
Buie, Richard Young
Rn~sell, Alex.
Rutherford, John Alex.
Sanford, Farmer
Saunders, Walter Gillette
Bavl!-ge, Thomas
Saxton, William Eugene
Schild, George Ferdinand
Sherwood, John
Shirley, Guy
Sm.a ll, Frederick Augustus
Sorensen, Samuel Peter
Sp1mcer, Alfred 9scar
Springborg, Peter Conrad
St~vens, Calvin Elkins
Stewart, Herbert Callaway
St;:omberg, Wllhrilm Nilcolom

0

115

ROSTEit

ROSTER.

116

Symington, John Grant
Thirion, Julius Joseph
Thornton, George
'fobias; Dot Orville
Tobias, Harrison Jesse
Tolly, George Francis
Tomke, Edward
Tregidgo, Don Alfonso
Tringberg, Charles Edward
Tripp, Don Everett
Vice, Thomas, Jr.
Walker, James Marion Church
Wr.ll, Charles John
Warford, Charle~ Henry
Warford, Ge,or~e Hichborn

Warford, Lewis Sylvester
Warren, Charles, P. M.
Weber, Henry Louis
Welter, Dominique
Westrem, John
Wheeler, Charles Garrv
Widenmann, Charles
Wirlenmann, Henry Jacob
Wiison, George Wilkins
Winchell, Frank Theodore
Wiseman, Herbert John
Wood, John Francis
Wood, Robert
Wright, M:art.il' Jeremiah, P. M.
-2::17

QUITMAN LODGE, No. 88.

ROSE'S BAR .LODGE, No. 89
Smartsville, Yuba County.

.

William GarfieM Robson, Master,
Forrest Bruner Matson, Biin. Deac.,
John Bach, Senior Warden,
Julian Wilcoxon Dobbins, Jun. Deac.,
Harry Byron Lewis, Jun. Warden, Eugene D. Hapgood, Marshal, .
Robert Beatty, Treasurer,
George Eugene Vineyard, Steward,
Hall Vestal, Secretary,
Joseph Taylor, Steward,
Samuel Nelson Dickerman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

•

North Bloom.field. Nevada County.

OFFICERS:
No Certificate.
MEMBERS:
Mohly, Leon Walter
M~ore, David James
Myers, James Perkins
Quinn, Michael
RoPch, Alex., P. M.
Redington, James, P. M.
Rossen, Rasmus Peterson, P . M.
Skidmore, Grant
Skidmore, Rush' Dix
Stromback, Johannes
Swank, William Jl:fferson
Tregidgo, Alfonso Adolph
V ezzord, Joseph l1.
Waldron, Patrick S.-28

Stated Meet,i ngs, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

Berndt, Hans
Brown, George W.
Cattlet, George C.
Evens, John Owen
Glasson, Josiah
Helwig, John Henry
Jepson, Chresten Otto
Jepson, Chresten Hans
Jones, Richard Robert
Jones, John Richard
Jorgensen, Christen, P. M.
Landsburge, Jasper G.
Long, William David
Matteoda, Loui8

117

Austin, John Hiram
Bach, John
Beatty, Robert
Beatty, John, Jr., P. M.
Dobbins, Julian Wilcoxon
Durfee, Joseph, P. M.
Dutra, Frank Meranda
Fitzpatrick, Peter
Flint, John North
Hapgood, Eugene DeLorimer. P. M.
Lehman, William Henry
Lewis, Harry Byron
Magonigal, William Boyd

Manasco, Carlton Willburn, P. M.
Nicholas, John Henry
Peckham, Thomas William
Perkins, Joseph Allen
Rolles, Ow.en
Robson, William Garfield, P. M.
Sperbeck, John Bertie
Stewart, Wallis Jones
Taylor, Joseph A.
Vestal, Hall
Vineyard, George Eugene
Wheaton, Allan Givens, P. M.
W cehler, Otto Arived-26.

NORTH ST AR LODGE, No. 91.
Fort Jones, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•

•

Fred Sylvester Henderson, Master, John Emerson Crawford, Sen. D.,
Isaac Roberts, Senior Wa1de:n,
:Jilderick Preston Eastlick, Jun. D.,
William Glendedding, Junior W., Craig Thomas Harbaugh, Marshal,
Felix Kunz, Treasurer,
Richard Scruggs Lindsay, Steward,
Martin Custer Beem, Secretary,
Elton Thompson Bailey, Steward,
Hiram Wilson, Tyler.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

ll8

MEMBERS:
Kunz, Felix
Arnold, Jesse
Lindsay, Richaril Scruggs
Beem, Andrew Addison
Luttrell, Samuel Jackson
Beem, Marten Custer, P. M.
Mathews, John Fairchild
Bailey, Elton Thompson, P. M.
Milliken, Albert
Bills, Albert Aaron
Maplesden, Richard Daniel
Camp, James
Crawford, John Emerson
Mccaw, Alex.
Dangel, ·Joseph
Oberholtzer, George Washington
Erno, Abram
Parrott, Charles .Booth
Eastlick, Ederick Preston
Ream, Daniel, P. M.
Glendinning, William
Roberts, Ieaac
Glendinning, Walter Elliot
Sell. Adam B.
Garret, Albert Morton
Sht>lley, William Denton
Garrow, Joseph Gilbert
Short, John
Hamilton, Isaac
Slater, Michael. P . M.
Hamilton, John
Sublett, Freeborn Thomas
Horn, David
Walker, Robert Michell, P. M.
Henderson, Fred Sylvester, P. M.
Wilson, Hiram
Harbaugh, Craig Thoma.s, P. M.
Young, John Wesley-39.
Harris, Charles Elias

-21.

ST. HELENA LODGE, No. 93
St. Helena, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•

Coloma, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceiling Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Albert William Norris, Master,
Albert Johnson, Senior Deacon,
Giosue Bassi, Senior Warden,
Wm. Nathan Stearns, Junior Deacon,
Chas. Felix Leonardi, Jun. Warden, Leonard Thoi;nas, Marshal,
Joseph Spencer Norris, Treasurer, Ralph Lewis Colwell, StewarJ,
Arthur John Mahler, Secretary,
Albert Shafsky, Steward,
Daniel Teuscher, '.liyler.
MEMBERS:
Leonardi, Charles Felix
Mahler, Arthur John
Mahler, Henry, P . M .
McKay, John
Merrill, Charles Edward
Mi~er, James
Norris, Albert William

Stearns, William Nathan
Teuscher, Daniel
Thomas, Leonard, P . M.

Norris, Joseph Spencer
O'Connell, Charles Augustus
Rasmusson, Charles Augustus
Shafsky, Albert

ACACIA LODGE, No. 92.

Bassi, Giosue
Bell, Francis Marion
Castle, Walter Augustus
Colwell, Ralph Lewis
Harris, Jacob Alex.
Jolonson, Alber~
Largers.o n, Frederick

ll9

•

•

John Hiram Allison, . Master,
Alphonso Nelson Bell, Sen. Deacon,
Anker Miller, Senior Warden,
Hans Hansen, Junior Deaeon,
Geo. Daniel Reynolds, Jun. Warden, Benj; Franklin Kettlewell, Marshal,
John Henry Steves, Treasurer,
James Caughey, Steward,
Louis Grant Clark, Secretary,
Frederick Garfield Varner, Steward,
James Mitchell, Chaplain,
Franz Ludwig Beck, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Grant, George
Grauss, Felix Lauren
Greenfield, Charles Hayden
Hansen, Hans
Hansen, William
Hardin, James Robert Lee
Harris, Henry Harrison
Haskell, Greenleaf Adelbert
Higgins, Andrew Jackson
• Hussman,·George C.
Hussman, Frederick Ludwig
Jehnsky, Henry Charles
Johnson, Leslie Ewing
Kettlewell, Benj. Frankin, P. M.
Lyman, Wm. Whittingham,P. M.
Mackinder, Frank Bennett
McAllister, William Francis
McGee, James
McMahan, Joel
Meacham, Henry Martin
Merk, Jacob Frederick
Metzler, Johll' Adam, P . M.
Metzner, Walter
Miller, Anker
Mitchell, James

Adamson, Christin Pugh
Allison, James Andrew
Allison, John Hiram
Arbogast, Jacob Lewis
Beck, Franz Ludwig
Beck, Lawrence Lausen
Bell, Theodore Arlington
Bell, William Bradford
Bell, Alphonso Nelson
Berryman, James Ernest
Bingham, William Alex.
Brr,dbury, William Wirt
Booth, Jedidiah
Bruck, Bismarck, P. M.
Caughey, James
Cla:tk, Samuel Gilman
Clark, Louis Grant
Chinn, Harry Jessup
Conradi, Carl Herbert
Craig, James
Davis, Cornelius Elting
Dawson, William James Greenley
Engelland, John Fred
Fried, David
Fos, Raymond

ROSTER.

120
Mitchell, Frank Walton, P. M.
Moburg, Charles J.
Newcomer, Stuart
Noble John Stuart
Outwater, Nelson T.
Overacker, Howard, Jr.
Parrish, Henry Lincoln
Pellet, Frank
Phillips, Joseph Wilson
Rammers, Henry George
Rampendahl, August Charles
Rasmussen, Andrew
Rednall, Charles Frederick
Rennie, William
Reynolds, George Daniel
Rice, Charles Frederick
Ritchie, David R., P. M.

ROSTER.

Ritchie, George Tolman
Robertson, Robert
Sh11kespear, David
Skoog, August
Steves, John Henry, P. M.
Speres, William
Thomas, Wade H\J.milton
Tucker, Bird
Turner, William Abbott
Vann, Charles Ross
Varner, Frederick Garfield
Walker, Horace Milton
Wallace, Clarence Holmer
Ward, Bruce Stanley, P. M.
Wes ton, Frank
York, Eli McBride
83.

•
HENRY CLAY LODGE, No. 95.

Lehmann, Herman
Lewis, Arthur Parker
Lithgow, Theodore
Lithgow, John, P. M.
:Montgomery, Frederick Alex.
Myers, John, P. M.
Nixon, Malachi Doyle, P. M.
Norton, William Henry
Norton, Charles Howard, P. M.
Norton, Virgil Winfield
Noce, Andrew Lewis
Patterson, David Anderson
Peterson, Charles Henry
Phipps, William Grant
Phipps, John Anthony
Phipps, John Anthony, Jr.
Post, John McDugall, P. M.
Post, Elbridge James, P. M.
Poundstone, Lawrenz Rider
Richards, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Sander~, William Atwood

121

Show, Herbert Jesse
Smith, Webster, P. M.
Styles, George Washington
Thomas, John Richard
Thomas, J"ohn
Tregloan, John Roger
Trudgen, William Thomas·
Vicini, Charles Peter
Vollmer, John
Voorheis, Frank Arthur
Voorheis, Edward Converse, P. M.
Walter, Henry Franklin
Walsh, Albert Marion
Watkins, Royal
Weil, Aaron
Werner, Fred, P. M.
Williamson, Geo·rge Frederick
Wonderley, William Henry
Wood, Homer Winfrey
Y elmini, Victor Pacific
'-67.

Sutter Creek, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ed. Cornelius Jones, Sen. Deacon,
Frederick Werner, Master,
John A. Phipps, Jr., Sen. Warden, ................ , Junior Deacon,
Wm. H. Wonderley, Jun. Warden, William Henry Gunsolus, Marshal,
Morris Brinn, Treasurer,
Nicholas Hornberger, Steward,
John Richard 'lhomas, Steward,
John Lithgow, Secretary,
Charles Howard Norton, Chaplain, Herman Lehmann, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Fleming, Joseph
Allen, George Edward
Frazer, Martin Luther
Bastian, James Buzza·
Greenhalgh, William Henry
Bell, William
Groves, Isaac Newton
·
Beskeen, John Edward
Bowman, Frank Austin
Gunsolus, William Henry, P. M.
Hattersly, John
Brinn, Morris, P. M.
· Healey, William Edward
Burns, William Hector, P. M.
Hornbe/ger, Nicholas
Chandler, Joseph Fountain, P. M.
Huntington, Pliny Cortin
Conroy, Chester Fenell
Culbert, Charles Leonard
Jones, Edward
Jones, Edward Cornelius
Davis, Tallyesin
Jones, Thomas Washington
Dennis, Jackson
Downs, Water Ephraim
Katz, Louis, P. M.

HOWARD LODGE, No. 96.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each mo.nth.
OFFICERS:
Frank Church Pollard, Master,
James Gehrig Beard, Sen. Deacon,
Elsworth Tubbs, Sen. Warden,
Irving Levi Eddy, Jun. Deacon,
Charles H. Morrison, Jun. Warden, Lewis Farren Coburn, Marshal,
William Lorenzo Hobbs, Treas.,
William Brown Rider, Steward,
Elisha DeWitt, Secretary,
Alfred Gµnten, Steward,
James Marcellus Powers, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
4.utenrieth, Frederick Alex., P. M.
.A.utenrieth, Edward Herman
Babcock, William Lee
Barton, Henry John
Beard, John Samuel
Beard, James Gehrig
Betts, John George
Bird, John William, P. M.
Brooks, George William, P. M~

Coggins, Clifford
Collar, Adoniram Judson, P. M.
Collar, Floyd Judson
Collar, Lloyd Dougal
Coburn, Lewis Farren, P. M.
Cooper, George Washington
Corpe, William Dennis ·
Cornelius, Rowland Pryor
Coyle, James Lawrence

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

122

MEMBERS:

Martin, Henry Alvin
Martin, Milton Terney
Mcilmoil, William Henry
Morrison, Charles Hector
Orr, Oliver
Owens, Richard
Papst, John Leland
Pollard, Frank Church
Rel!m, David, P. M.
Rider, William Brown
Roberts, William Henry
Barter, Harvey Johnson, P. M.
Shearer, Robert
Sheldon, Luther Augustus
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Smith, Clarence Stewart, P .. M.
Smith, Abner Clarence
Straw, Isaac Jefferson
Tapscott, James Robert, P. M.
Truax, Andrew Yates
Tubbs, Ellsworth
Turner, Walter
Turner, William Wallace
Wadsworth, Henry
Walbank, Edward Montague, P. M.
Walbridge, John Morris, P . M.
Walker, Benjamin Franklin
White, James Melville
White, Samuel
-77

Davidson, James McDermit
DeWitt, Elisha
DeWitt, Henry Conroy, P. M.
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt, P. M.
Earhart, Davis Carlisle
Eddy, Newton Harvey
Eddy, Irving Levi
Fabricius, Andrew Jackson
Fielder, John Larimer
Gillis, Hudson B., P. M.
Gregory, Calvin Levi, P. M.
Gunten, Alfred
Hailley, Charles Edwin
Harmon, John Enoch, P. M.
Hart, Edwin Charles
Hassler, William Richard
Hausen, Andy Martin
Herman, Charles Virgil
Hobbs, William Lorenzo
Houghton, George · Frederick
Hovey, Frank
Hudson, Hamilton Harns
Jones, Arthur
Jones, Medcalf Thomas
Kuck, Jerome Deidrick
Larison, Charles Amos, P. M.
Leland, William Lester
Lenox, William
Madden, Mabra Helm
Martin, Frederick

Brunet, Leon
Bruster, Herbert
Buckley, John Edward
Cayot, Francis
Caya, Oliver Francis
Corbett, David U., P. M.
Cox, George Washington, P. M.
Fox, James
Francis, Richard Alley
Grant, William Oscar
Grandbois, Samuel Francis
Greely, Archie Josiah
Harris, Aaron
Hendel, Charles William
Johnson, Andrew
Jones, James
Jones, Thomas William
Kingdon, Henry
.Ki~gdon, Richard Henry

...

-37

HORNITOS LODGE, No. 98.
Homitos, Mariposa County.

OFFICERS:
Wm. Proctor Branson, Master,
J'ohn Sa?¥uel Guest, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph Julian Bauer, Sen. Warden, John Maria Souza, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Ed. Bauer, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Newton McGregor, Marshal,
Frank Nicolas Solari, Treasurer,
William Burkett Avis, Steward,
William Adams, Secretary,
Samuel Tippett, Steward,
Joseph Spagnoli, Tyler.

La Porte, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

•

OFFICERS:
William Oscar Grant, Sen. Deacon,
Cleveland H. 0 'Rou.k.e, Jun. Deacon,
Heney Kingdon, Marshal,
Daniel McKenzie, Steward,
John Edward Buckley, Steward,
Onezime Liberty, Tyler.

Lassiat, John Batiste
Liberty, Onezime
May, Gilbert, P. M.
McNaire, George Morrison
Mcintosh, Melville ·
McKenzie, Daniel
Motte, Joseph
Mussey, John Milton, P. M.
0 'Rouke, Cleveland Hendrich
Quigley, Willie Clarence
Richier, Dominique
Robertson, John Hutchinson
Sample, James
Sherman, William
Squier, Eugene, P. M.
Prescott, William Herbert
Wendler, Frederick Herman
Wingate, Charl11s Birkmyer

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

JEFFERSON LODGE, No. 97.

Gilbert May, Master,
Willie C. Quigley, Sen. Warden,
Samuel F. Grandbois, Jun. Warden,
Aaron Harris, Treasurer,
Francis Cayot, Secretary,
John Milton Mussey, Chaplain,

123

•

.

•

MEMBERS:
Adams, William, P. M.
Grade, William Adolph
Appling, John Beauregard
Gribble, James Thomas
Bauer, Charles Edward
Guest, John Samuel
Bauer, Joseph Julian
. Henricks, Albert, P. M.
Branson, Joseph
Henricks, Samuel
Branson, William Proctor, P. M.
Hunter, William Wilkins
Brown, Samuel Lester
King, William Booth
Bunker, Charles Emmons
Mora, John Henry
Cornett, John Robairt
McGregor, William Newton

124

ROSTER.

Ong, Jackson Washington
Pearce, John
Reeb, George
Spagnoli, Joseph
Solari, Frank Nicholas
Souza, John Maria

Thorn, Joseph Franklin
Thorn, George McKendra
Tippett, Samuel
Trabucco, John Babtista
Washington. Patrick
Weber, George· Edward

ROSTER.

•
•

-30

LA GRANGE LODGE, No. gg .
Merced, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frederick Wm. Yokum, Master,
Hubert Heitman, Sen. Deacon,
Fred. Wm. Heitman, Sen. Warden, Clyde B. Czerney, Junior Deacon,
Geo. Oscar Kinney, Jun. Warden, James Leonard, Marshal,
Carter Landram, Treasurer,
Wm. Edward Lardram, Steward, ·
Edward Rowe Jones, Secretary.
Oscar Marion Oliver, Steward,
Aaron Badt, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, George William
Darby, James Frank
Baker, John William
Deaner, John Allen
Baker, Oscar Alexander, P M.
Elliott, John G., P. M.
Bearwald, Henry
Farr, George Daniel
Badt, Aaron
Fraser, Alexander Simon
Barfield, George Hardwick
Fruit, Jefferson
Bird, Isaac
Gervasio, Jacintho Rogrigues
Bloss, George Stone
Givens, Thomas Thaift
Blumenthal, Bernard
Goldberg, William Louis
Goldman, Morris
Bradley, Fred
Bruce, Alexander
Gracey, Robert, P. M.
Burchell, Milton Cook
Gray, John Alexander
Brantley, Samuel King
Gun, Alfred Richard
Baxter, James Robert
Hall, Thomas Albert
Carpenter, Ransom Umbers
Harrell, Charles Benton
Clark, Robert Riley
·
Harris, Ruben
Corwin, Andrew Chandler
Hammatt, Robert William
Croop, William Bigler
Hardwick,. William Jefferson
Cunningham, Emmet Turner, P. M. Harris, Alfred
Cunningham, James Charles
Harris, Charles
Cunningham, James
Harris, Morris Louis
Czerney, John, P. M.
Hind, Jarvis
Czerney, Clyde Benton
Hayward, Alvin Eugene

•

..

Heitman, Frederick William
Heitman, Hubert
Horsley, William Henry
Howard, Amos Edwin
Hughes, James Boaz
Huls, Herbert Kimball
Hunt, William Horton
Jacobs, Isaac Henry
Jones, Edward Rowe
Jones, George 8hilton
John, Joseph Simpson
Kenney, George Oscar
Knox, James Walker
Landram, Carter, P. M.
Lander, Jr.mes ',\'homas
Law, ThOID\111 .QhaJ:me!I!
La'rdram, William Edward
Leonard, James, P . M.
Massengale, Ri<Jhard Eugene
Means, William Leland, P . M.
Moutrey, Asa Edward
McKain, Edward James, P . M.
McPherson, Hiram Archibald
O'Brien, Edward Stephen, P. M.
Oliver, Oscar Marion
Ordway, Francis Moody

125

Painter, Eugene Deshong
Parkinson, Robert John
Pedreira; Antonio Freitas, P. M.
Rogers, James Roe
Ralston, Clark
Roes, Henry Christopher
Robinson, Charles Augustus
Saunders, William Ivy
Scofield, A. Hamon
Seely, Ralph Morton
Shaffer, Harold Stanley
Shaffer, Charles R.
Silman, Archibald Lewis
Simon, Charles
Simon, J a.mes
Smith, Arthur Montell
Stoddard, Ebep.ezer Maxwell
Titzlaff, Frank
Terrill, Overton Harrison
Turner, William Henry
Warfield, Chas. Alex. Hamilton
Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Vincent, Marion W.
Yokum, Frederick William
Yoakum, George Washington

CLAY LODGE, No.

-98

101.

Dutch Flat, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Solon McKean Curtis, Master,
·Howe Ross, Senior Deacon,
Geo. Rudolph Faller, Sen. Warden, W. Henry Leahr, Junior Deacon,
John Gordan MacRay, Jun. Ward., John Henry LaKa.mp, Marshal,
John Beamer, Treasurer,
Alex~ Edwin Erskine, Steward,
John Nicholls, Secretary,
Whitman Wm. Price, Steward,
Benjamin James Griffiths, Tyler.

..

Barker, Charles Oscar
Beamer, John
Berry, John Murray

MEMBERS:
Buckman, Benjamin Sims
Buckman, Thol\)as Milbon
Brice, Joseph Albert

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

126
Clendening, John
Cook, William
Curtis, Solon MeKllan, P. M.
Diner, Henry
Drynan, AlexandPt
Duncan, David
Erskine, Alexand'lr Edwin
Frentel, Henry
Faller, George B.udolph
Gifford, Robert
Gowling, Phillip
Griffiths, Benja.min James
Halsey, Henry 'Heyer
Holmes, William John
Huysink, Berna.rd Henry
Iverson, John Rans
Jacobs, Lorenzo
Jefferson, Matthew
J osink, Bernard Henry
Ketchum, Frank
Knapp, James Beebe, P. M.
LaKamp, John Henry, P, M.
LaKamp, Frank
Lamphrey, Frank
Lane, William Willis
Lear, William Henry
Linder, Robert Edward

Lohman, Peter
MacRay, John Gordan
Maker, George Samuel
McDonald, Horatio
McDonald, Malcomb
Nelson, Charles Robert, P. M
Nicholls, John
Nichols, Thomas Jefferson
Noyes, Mark Fish
Noyes, Henry Leonard
Oats, Lewis Daniel
Peters, Metcalf Lorenzo
Powers, Edgar Bowe, P. M.
Rathbun, Frank Larue
Rickenback, John Wilson
Robie, Ira Allen
Rose, David
Schmidt, George Wilhelm
Schou, Hans Johnson
Shell, Perry Beujamin
Sherriff, Henry
Thomas, Ephraim Marriner, P M.
Thomas, John
Towle, Arthur Warren
Towle, George Gould
Whitten, Fred W.

-59

MANZANITA LODGE, No.

102.

North San Juan, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Morgan Harris, Master,
Henry German, Senior Warden,
.Tohn Trood, Junior Warden
John German, Treasurer,
Patrick Henry Butler, Secretary,
Bank, Frederick William
Bigelow, As-hley Smith
Billing, John

l\IEMBERS:
Bristow, William
Buhring, Harry Herman
Butler, Patrick Henry

Chisholm, James
Coffey, George Thomas
Cull, Henry
Cunard, James Henry
Curnow, Phillip
Dunning, William
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
Godfrey, Fred
Godfrey, James
Harris, Thomas
Harris, George Morgan, P. M
Jones, William Arthur
Lane, John
Lancaster, Charles Edward, P. M.

•

127

McBride, John Storer, P. M.
McCullough, Robert James
Miller, Charles Howard
Morri~, James Doherty
Paine, Charles Sanford, P. M.
Philbrick, Fred Everett
Phillips, Reuben
Quick, John
Sta.ndinger, Raymond Ed.
Thomas, Richard
Trood, John, P. M.
Trood, William
Westerfield, Wi!liam Jackson
Wood, Frank Merton
--34

OROVILLE LODGE, No. 103.
Oroville, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, last Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Harry Jacoby, Master,
Herbert J. Graham, Sen. Warden,
John J. Hamlyn, Jun. Warden,
John Carleton Gray, Treasurer,
Joseph Marks, Secretary,
Daniel Hilton, Chaplain,

Wm. Cramer Swezy, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Wakeham, Junior Deacon,
Charles Walter Gardner, Marshal,
John S. Soares, Steward,
Richard Saville, Steward,
George Washington Dyer, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Lemuel Herbert
Burton, David J<~rastus
Atchison, Thomas Andrew
Cleaveland, Judson A.
Atkin, James Henry
Cleveland, Newton
Atkins, Frank
Cline, Charles Stephenson
Bell, Henry Clay
Cline, Clarence Charles
Bennett, George Wilbur
Cook, William Henry
Blockley, Edward
Crossley, William Lybrand
Blood, Richard Pierson
Crow, Claud Grant
Blood, Charles Ai
DeLong, David Magee
Boynton, Albert Eugene, P. M.
Dixon, William Hubert, · P. M.
Boalt, Eben
Dole, Alfred Rowell
Boalt, Gilbert Denison
Dunn, Charles Dennis, P. M.
Brooks, Frank
Dyer, George Washington
Bullington, Perry Franklin
Dyer, George Sterling
Burroughs, Charles, P. M.
Fairchild, Howard

128
Fairchild, Ernest Day
Felton, George
Gale, John
Gardner, Charles Watter
George, Fr.ank Elwin
Gingles, William Wilson
Grace, Robert Patrick
Grace, James Wilmer, P. M.
Graham, George James
Graham, Hi>rbert James
Gray, John Carleton, P. M.
Gray, James Chadwick
Gray, Carleton, P. M.
Green, Robert Moore
Green, Louis Lincoln
Grier, William John
(foidety, John, P. M.
llam, Richard Kimbell
Hamlyn, John Joseph
Helms, Houston
Herrin, William James
Hilton, Daniel, P. M.
Hilton, William Montague
Hogan, James Harvey
Horton, Theron White
Huber, James
Hudson, William Bell
Huffart, Charles Alexander
Jacoby, Harry
James, Francis Evan
Johnson, John Charles
Johnson, August
Jones, Albert Foster
Keifer, William Hammon
Kelly, Thomas Joseph
Kimball, Edwin Boyce
Kitriek, Roger Sylvester, P. M.
Lantz, John Delbert, Jr.
Lee, Thomas Corydon
·Leonard, J'ohn Pearce
Lic.dsay, Edward Edison
Long, Jacob Michael
Maack, Frederick William
Maack, Ma"."cus Christian
Marks, Leon Heilbron
Matthews, George Henry

ROSTER.
Marks, Josoph
Mansfield, Isaac LeRoy
Macfarlane, Donald, P. M.
McConnoughy, Uharles William
McCoy, Benjamin Lincoln
McGuffin, James Abraham
McKenzie, Colin Randolph
:MPngler, Henry Andreas
Merrill, Austin Page
Mtycrs, John Franklin
Mitche:l, Edward James
M0ncure, Ashby
~forse, Anthony Waine
Moulin, Ferdinand Victor
Mullen, James Joseph
Murphy, Albert Leslie
Ne<Vbold, Edwin Henry
Park, James Milne, P. M.
Reardan, Thomas Birkhead
Reece, Thomas White
Riehl, Albert Sigel
Rippey,. George Washington
Sangster, Joseph Edwin
Saville, Richard
Sennett, Joseph Benton, P. M.
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
Simon, Samuel Samuel, P. M.
Smith, Herbert Warrell
Smullen, Harry Leslit,
Soares, John Stanislaus
Sprague, Frederick Adams
Stedman, Francis Marion
Steele, Harry Oskar
Stickney, David
Swezy, William Cramn
Telford, George
Tople, Prince Louis
Travers, Walter Oates
Tucker, Ira Lester
Turner, Fred Moreland
Upham, Isaae, P. M.
Vail, Henry Eugene
Van Deinse, Francis Christia;1
Wakeham, Luther
Wakeham, Eil.
Ward, William

ROSTER.
Waterhouse, John Francis
Wtaver, Frank Walter
White, James Abanatha
Whiting, Eugene Carlisle

129

Williams, James Madison
Wilson, John West
Woodman, Charles David
-129

LEXINGTON LODGE, No.

104.

El Monte, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next · preceding Full Moon.

•

OFFICERS:
Alfred C. Drake, Master,
W. Rowland Hudson, Sen. Deacon,
Harry J. Woods, Sen. Warden,
Francis P. Sappington, Jun. Deac.,
W. Shepard Sawyer, Jun. Warden, Paul Kallmeyer, Marshal,
John Wa.terman Barton, Treasurer, Joseph Coy Thurman, St~ward,
Charles Soward, Secretary,
Robert John Irvine, Steward,
Isaac Funk Baker, Chaplain,
David I. Ritter, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

•

Baker, Isaac Funk, P. M.
Barton, John Watterman
Barton, CheRter Renislar
Bell, Thomas
Ca-ve, Frederick P.
Cleminson, James
Cleminson, James D.
Cross, George 0.
Davis, William C.
DeGarmo, Rollie Frank
Donaldson, Daniel
Dodson, Elbert Jones
Dodson, William Long
Dodson, ()laybourn B.
Drake, Alfred C.
Elliott, Alexander
Ellington, Harry A.
Hayes, Thomas Francis, P. M
Hudson, William Rowlan<l
Irwin, William
Irwin, Robert J.
Kallmeyer, Pau!
Xau:ffman, Isaac
Kauffman, Milton
9

Killian, W -ildo
Killian, Jonas
Killian, Jonas B.
Killian, Joseph B.
Langstadter, Isaac
McCaige, George B.
McLeod, John David, P. M.
Parish, Elkanah C.
Pearson, William Robert, P. M.
Piuma, Guiatono
Quinn, Richard, P. M.
Reed, Elgar
Renfro, G. B.
Ritter, David Irwin, P. M.
Rowland, David P.
Sappington, Francis P.
Sawyer, William Shephard
Severe, Willis
Soward, Char lee
Stanton, Francis Harclen
Stange, Fred
Thurman, Joseph Coy
Wiggins, Thomas
-48
Wood, Harry J.

130

ROSTER.

ARCATA LODGE, No.

ROSTER.
106.

Nelson, Aaron Frederick
Nesman, Andrew
Nixon, William
Nixon, Charles Henry
Noe, Jesse Lafayette
Ogelvey, William Hex:ry
Patenaude, Amos Octave
Patenaude, Emanuel
Perigot, Gustave
Preuss, Theodore Reinhold
Roberts, Melvin Parker, P. M.
Ross, James
Scott, George Murdock
Seaver, Allen
Seidell, Arthur, P. M.
Simpson, Henry
Smith, Frank Adams
Spring, Obadiah Hill -

Arcata, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Wesley Whipple Stone, Master,
John J. Krohn, Senior Deacon,
Oetje H. G. Marken, Sen. Warden, Carl Gus. Mandahl, Jun. Deacon,
Melvin P. Roberts, Jun. Warden, Jeremiah Ralph Brown, Marshal,
Noah H. Falk, Treasurer,
Allen Seaver, Steward,
·
Thos. Ruthven Emerson, Secretary. Andrew N esman, Steward,
Benjamin J. Darneille, Chaplain,
William Nixon, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, James Peter
Hansen, Charles Emil
Aurand, Fra_n klin Clation
Hansen, Peter Andreas
Baldwin, Hubert Alexander
Harpst, Charles_Isaiah, P. M.
Barber, Herbert Anson
Harpst, George Wilson
Barnes, Alfred
Harpst, George
Bell, Philetus
Harpster, Irvine Levi, P. M.
Blythe, William Lucian
Hawton, Robert
Bohmansson, Robert Hugo
Heckman, William Henry Harrison
Brown, Jeremiah Ralph
Hore!, Francis R.
Honda, Bohemia! Antonin
Bull, John Clark, Jr.
Bull, John Clark
Honda, John Paul
Jackson, Harry Woodville
Bull, Ralph Waldo
.
Burchard, George Horatio, :P. M.
Johansen, Nelson Baker
Johnson, Joseph
Cullberg, Isaac
Cullberg, Isaac, Jr.
Kallstrom, Charles August
Davies, Jasper Newton, P. M.
Kenney, W"alter Montie
Kirby, William Henry
Deming, Byron Briggs
Drewry, Charles Henry
Korbel, Joseph Frank, Jr.
Krohn, Julius John
Duprey, Alfred Isadore
Emerson, Thomas Ruthven
Larsen, Abraham
Emerson, Thomas Henry
Mandahl, Carl Gustav
Ericson, August William
Marken, Oetje Herman G.1 P . M.
Everding, Louis Charles
Marvin, George D.
Falk, Noah H.
Mathews, Philip
McGowan, Daniel Walter
Falk, Elijah
Falk, Charles Eugene
McMillan, Rowland
Falor, Frank Eugene
Menefee, Peter Mason
Fountain, Mathew Francis
Menefee, Joseph Senevy
Fry, Hume Lamond, P. M.
Moore, Henry
Garrett, William Xenophon
Moore, James McDonald
Gillis, Walter Henry
Moore, William Gregory
Gillis, Cecil Edgar
Morrell, Frank Edward
Graeter, Luther Doury
Myers, Sylvester

131

Stearns, George Addison
Stei-n, Bernard Frank
Stern, Charles Frank
Stewart, Adam Hugh
Stone, We11Jey Whipple, P . M.
Sudbrook, Albert
Teal, George Franklin
Theerman, Henry Harm
Tooby, Frank Hart
Truesdall, Clifford Ambrose
Vaissade, Benjamin
Wallace, David Douglas
Wiley, Rease Martin
Wilson, .Tp.mes
Wood, William Mead
Zaruba, Vaclar
Zehender, Georg_e
--101 -

OWEN LODGE, No.

108.

Scott's Bar, _Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles Herman Simon, Master,
Wm. Virgil Cowan, Sen. Deacon,
Ernest A. Zoellin, Senior \Varden,
Joseph B. Ledue, Junior Deacon,
George A. Milne, Jun. Warden,
Joseph Wash. Martin, Marshal,
Arthur Simon, Treasurer,
Hiram Dual Shearer, Steward,
Elisha Jacobs, Secretary,
Henry Chartel Tickner, Steward,
Job Garretson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Cowan, William Virgil
Garretson, Job
Jacobs, Elisha, P. M,
Ledue, Joseph Barnaby
Martin, .Toseph Washington
Morgan, Wesley Eugene
Milne, George Anthony

•

Shearer, Hiram Dual
Simon, Arthur, P . M.
Simon, Charles Herman, -P . M.
Steele, William John
Tickner, Henry Chartel
Zoellin, Ernest August, P. M.
-la

132

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

PAJARO LODGE, No. no.
Watsonville, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Wm. Henry Benteen, Master,
Stephen S. Jarrett, Sen. Deacon,
H. C'. Weisenberger, Sen. Warden, Wm. Fred. Willett, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Burton Cooper, Jun. Warden, Joseph R. Uren, Marshal,
Thomas M. Wright, Steward,
Charles A. Palmtag, Treasurer,
John H. McEwen, Secretary,
Cary Hanna Bager, Steward,
Ellsworth Lincoln Rich, Chaplain, John Allen Howard, Tyler.
MEMBERS1
Aldrich, David Metcalf
Foltz, John B.
Alexander, Jewel
Gardner, Jonathan Edward, P. M.
Alexander, Louis Sol
Hammel, William Henry
Andrews, Perry Morton
Harford Lyman
Harris, John Franklin
Austin, Frederick Sans
Baker, Cary Hanna
Ha1vey, Edward Everett
Beebe, Charles Emmell
Hedgepeth, Matto Marshall
Bellamy, Benson Clark, P. M.
Hollingsberry, Frank George
Benteen, William Henry
Hopkins, James
Bixby, William Aaron
Hudson, Mark Antony
Brassell, Hans Peter
Holsten, William A.
Brewington, George Hamilton
Hushbeck, Andrew
Brewington, George Francis
Howard, John Allen
Briggs, Charles Oscar
Howard, Moses B.
Burland, Edward Grant
Ish, Harry Edmund
Burlitnd, Robert
Jarrett, Stephen Samuel
Burland, William Henry
Jarrett, Joseph Samuel
Campbell, Robert Edgar
Judd, Hugh William
Chalmers, William AJ°exander
Kilburn, Frederick Augustus
Cheesebrough, Charles Edwin
Kilburn, Carl Mearle
Clark, Edgar Lewis
Kitchen, Henry Benton
Cleveland, Charles
King, James Isaac
Cleveland, George Clifton
Lennard, Frederick John
Coffman, Stephen William
Maher, David Francis
Cooper, William Burton
Mauk, Edward Henry
Cox, Arnold· William
Mauk, Franklin Edwin, P. M.
Cox, John Francis, P. M.
Martin, George Pardee
Cox, Robert Benjamin
Mayback, Samuel Philip
Delmere, Alexander
McEwen, John Herbert
McLean, Donald Lewellen
Dengler, Philip
Dixie, Richard
McGowan, William John
Dresser, Arthur Thomas, P. M.
Mendelson, Isaac
Miller, Guy
Fischer, Ferdinand Oscar

..

Morey, John Jacob
Morgan, George Duiguid
Nance, Benjamin Franklin
Nohrden, Frederick Henry
Palmtag, Charles A.
Pearson, Thomas Cook
Phillips, Frank W.
Porter, Warren Reynolds
Rich, Ellsworth Lincoln
Rodgers, Charles H.
Rodgers, Frank
Rodgers, Spencer Clay
Rodgers, Henry Browder
Rogers, Robert Ayton
Bouse, Parker Sandy
Sawyer, Reuben Herbert
Beity, George
Shaver, Eugene C.
Short, Jacob Martin
Sill, George Wellington, P . M
Silliman, Charles Oscar
Silliman, George Francis
Silliman, Walter Trafton
Storm, Peter
Sterling, Alexander

133

Swearengen, Frank Corday
Trafton, George Arthur
Trafton, William Arthur
Trafton, John Edmund
Trafton, Thomas Eugene
Trafton, Howard Valentine
Trueworthy, Edward
Tuttle, Iowa Harley, P. M.
Uren, Joseph R., P. M.
Vaughan, George
Waters, James, P. M.
Watters, Peter Kemp
Webb, William John
Weedon, Robert Fletcher
Weeks, William Henry
Weisenberger, Henry Conrad
West, Danforth
West, Henry E.
White, Charles John
White, William Anson
Willett, Frederick William
Wright, Thomas Marion
Wyckoff, Edward Francis, P. M .
Wyckoff, Herbert Cope
Zimmerman, Edward Henry -116

CHICO LODGE, No.

III.

O".c.ico, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Richard Phillips, Master,
C. Henry Camper, Sen. Deacon,
Fred. J. Nottelmann, S•.n. Warden, J. Rankin Young, Jun. Deacon,
S. Kansas Troxel, Jun. Warden,
Jefferson Davis March, Marshal,
John Rose Robinson, Treasurer,
Edward Walter Florence Steward
August Leonard Neubarth, Sec.,
John W. M. Kennedy, S;eward, '
Henry Hallet, Chaplain,
Harmon McCargar, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, Charles B.
Batchelder, Hiram Treat
.Andrews, Charles Abram
Bicknell, Thomas, P . M .
.Applegate, William James
Bohlender, Thomas L.
Axtell, Samuel Thomas
Boucher, Josiah, Jr.
Barnard, Timothy Henry, P. M.
Bradley, William Leroy

13!

ROSTER.

Brown, William Reed
Broyles, Adam Courtney
Bryan, Elden Ebert
Burroughs, Harry DeForest
Canfield, Eugene Erastus
Carney, George Washington
Cecil, George Francis
Chandler, Walter Leroy
Chambers, James
Clark, Oliver Lovell
Clifford, Charles Alfred
Costar, William James, P. M
Cooney, George Elma
Crabb, Homer Elmer
Crabb, James Nelson
Crail, Luke Dillard
Crew, William Henry
Crowder, Clifford Lee
Cunningham, Charles Arnold
Cus~ick, Barney
Cussick, John
Cummings, Charles Edward
Daly, John Cardiff, P. M.
Dean, William Benjamin
Degnan, George William
Dillon, Thomas Franklin
Dugger, James Madison, P. M.
Durham, Robert Willington
Durham, William Willington
D 'Egilbert, William Alfred
Entler, Joseph Franklin
Evans, Joseph Mabery
Faulkner, Louis Glass, P. M.
Florence, Edwaril Walter
Garnier, Thomas Ralph
Guill, Lee Bryan
Guynn, Pleasant Marion
Guynn, William Rose
Hallet, H enry
Harden, Jesse H.
Harris, Charles
Haughton, Joseph Richardson
Harvey, John Wesley
H egan, James
Henshaw, Park
Hillard, Marion

Hoyle, James Marion
Hurlburt, Randolph
Hendricks, Thomas Perry
Isham, Edwin
Johnson, Theodore
Jones, Ralph Taylor
Jones, Samuel
Kerr, Archibald Thompson, P M.
Kerr, William Thomas
Kennedy, William Freeman
Kennedy, John William Mackay
Lane, Frederick Walter
Lausen, Henry Datlef
Leininger, Clarence Wilt
Linn, William Burney
Lothrop, Matthew Hale
Lovett, William Dottimore
Lowell, George A.
Macdonald, Angus Campbell
March, Jefferson Davis, P. M
March, Charles Alexander
March, James Franklin
March, Harry Davis
Martien, Joseph Gilbi>rt
Marvin, William Montgomery
McAnarlin, William
McCargar, Harmon, P. M.
McGrath, Harry Hill
Mcintosh, George Lewis
Mcintosh, Lewis Harrison
Means, Samuel Boyd
Messinger, John Gardner
Messinger, Reuben Henry
Meybem, Emil, P. M.
Miller, George, P. M.
· Miller, William Henry, P. M
Mit chell, J ames Ewing
Moir, H r.rry Saunders
Montgomery, James W. Bradford
Montgomery, Robert James
Moody, Stephen Prescott
Morgue, August William
Morton, Austin Earl
Morse, George Payson
Murray, Christopher
N elso,n , Henry

ROSTER.
Neubartb, August Leonard
Nichols, Harry Evans
Nottelmann, Frederick Jacob
Nunn, William Harper, P. M
Nugent, Harry George
Peake, William Humphrey
Peters, Pincus
Petersen, Geo, Fred. Christian
Phillips, Richards
Phillips, Leon William
Picton, Thomas George
Polk, Thomas H. Benton
Polk, William Downs
Pond, Edward B., P. M.
Ralston, Robert Bruce
Reynolds, Ed. Tillotson, P. M.
Reynolds, Sherman Allyn
Richardson, Harry Eugene
Robbie, William, P. M.
Robinson, John Rose
Robinson, George Foster
Rogers, Thomas Nelson
Roper, John Wesley
Roohr, Francis Louis
Sauber, Edwin Stanton
Sawyers, Frank Edward
Schooler, William Henry

Shaw, B9.ker Ewing
Shilling, John Stephen
Shirley, Lemuel Crittenden
Smith, Levi
Spencer, Thoma!! Case
Stansbury, Oscar
Sutcliffe, Emmott Walton
Taylor, Gilbert Hart
Thatcher, Frank Marion
Thomas, William, P. M.
Thrower, John Oscar
Thrower, JoAeph Bennett
Troxel, Samuel Kansas
Vadney, Edward Comilla
Vadney, George Edward
Van Horn, John Garnet
Warren, Edward Archer
Waterland, John Sanford
Watts, Harry Adelbert
Weston, Jubal
Wetherbee, Ira Alston
W(avu, H erman Bowman
White, Harry Darius
Will, William Emerson
Wiliiams, CharlPs Grover
young, James
Young, Joseph Rankin
-156

SUMMIT LODGE, No. n2.
Knight's Ferry, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings; Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Harvey Prowse, Master,
Chas. Thoe. Kennedy, Sen. Deacon,
Alfred Gatzman, Senior Warden, Philip Gable, Junior Deacon,
J. Franklin Tulloch, Jun. Warden, Wm. Edward Campbell, Marshal,
Osman C. Drew, 'Ireasurer,
Will Godfrey Bach, Steward,
Tobias Belt Boone, Secretary.
Francis Leonidas Griffin, Steward,
William Francis Bach, Tyler.

ROSTER.

136

MEMBER8:
Bach, William Francis
Kennedy, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Lawrence, Edgar Bolton, P. M.
Beck, John
Bentley, Jefferson Daniel
Lowe, Eugene Heber
Boone, Tobias Belt
Logan, William David, P. M.
Carmichael, Daniel Whitfield
McCabe, George Thomas, P. M.
Campbell, William Edward, P M.
Morgan, Frank Albert
Collins, Herbert
Nichols, Elmer Lincoln
Crabtree, Mark Trafton
Ostrom, Gilbe'rt Abram
Drew, Osman C.
Prowse, 'l'homas Harvey, P. M.
Edwards, David Franklin, P. M.
Smith, Martin James Joseph
Gabel, Philip
Tulloch, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Gatzman, Alfred
Tulloch, David Whitelaw
Gookin, Albert Millard, P. M.
Tulloch, John Franklin
Griffin; Francis Leonidas, P. M.
Valpey, Samuel GeorgeGriffin, William, P. M.
Watson, George Washington
Hocker, .ToPeph Lee, ~. M.
-31

EDEN LODGE, No. 113.
San Leandro, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, :first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Harvey Ohea, Master,
Allan Eli P elton, Senior Warden,
Geo. Jos. Helms, Jun. Warden,
Amzi B. Cary, Treasurer,
Charles Wildy McLaughlin, Sec.,
John Driver, Chaplain,

Albert L. Hansen, Senior Deacon,
Wm. F. Cunningham, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Theodore Helms, Marshal,
Jens C. Hansen, Steward,
Fred Crabtree, Steward,
William F. Helms, Tyler

1'1.t£MBERS:
Anderson, John Edmund
Barbeiro, Jos Enos
Ballard, Eugene Cogswell
Black, John
Boberg, Joseph Andrew
Bradley, James Walter
Bradshaw, Ira Ham, P. M.
Bulen, Mark Bledsoe
Bull, Thomas Benton
Cary, Talcutt P etekin

Cary, Amzi B., P. M.
Cary, Harry Ellis
Clark, William Amie, P. M.
Chaplin, David Henry, P. M.
Crabb, Allie Louis
Crabtree, Fred
Cunha, Joseph Oliver
Cunningham, William Floyd
Downie, George
Driver, John

ROSTER.
Dyer, Edmund Marcellus
Fassett, Charle& Edgar
Fisher, Ferdinanu O.
Fleming, Georgs
, Frank, John Nepsomick
Fulton, William, P. M.
Fulton, Walter Edwin
Gates, Dawson Dave
Gray, Benjamin Dinsmore
Gray, Newton
I
Hamilton, John
Hansen, Albert Laurits
Hansen, Sophus A. E.
Hansen, Robert
Hansen, Jens Christian
Hawes, Benjamin Cowell
Helms, George Joseph
Helms, Herman Fred. W., P. M.
Helms, Walter Theodore
Henricksen, Henry
Henricksen, James
Henricksen, Neils
Heusted, William Meese
Hill, Otis
Hite, William Euward
Hoerst, Edward
Hoffman, Eugene
Holmgren, John Alexander
Hopper, John F. Ernest, P. M.
Hurlbut, Charles Benjamin
Jackson, David
Jeffers, Samuel
Johnson, George
,
Gorgensen, .John Christian
Kelley, William
Kern, Jacob Fred
Kirman, Herman Warren
Leland, Frank Milton
Lenox, David Hudson
Lynch, William Francis, P. M.

137

Lynch, Oscar Jackson
Marlin, Brady Washington
Marlin, Henry Bowers
Martin, HeTJ.ry Whitney
Matson, Martin Bauder
Matson, William
McDannell, Benjamin Franklin
McLaughlin, Charles Wildy
McArdle, Lucian D.
Mendell, Edmund Dall
Mendell, .John Martin
Montgomery, William Stewart.
Morin, Hercules Andre, P. M.
Odgers, Thomas
Offersen, Niels
Ohea, George Harvey
Olsen, Henry Christian
Page, Rufus Billings
Page, Robert Stapleton
Palmer, Charles Edgar
Pelton, Allen Eli
Pimentel, Francisco
Reid, Alexander Baer
Reid, Jehn
Roberts, Andrew Gove
Rowles, William John
Sawyer, Thomas Edward
Schleuter, Edwin Charles
Smith, James Dale
Smith, Kirby Barnitz, P. M.
Stenzil, Fritz
Stone, Egbert Barker
Sturtevant, Noah Thomas, P - M.
Toffelmier, Douglas IDyssis
Treadwell, James
Walkins, Edmund Anderson, P. M.
Wemmer, William Leonard
Wilkie, James B.
Y oung, James Harry
Young, William Henry, P. M.

-100

MOUNT ZION LODGE, No.

114.

Grizzly Flat, .El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Gabriel Werntz, Master,
Thoe. A. Murray, Sen. Deacon,
George Kincaid, Senior Warden,
Moses C. Wheeler, Jun. Deacon,
Robert K. Claibourne, Jun. Warden, George W. Mauk, Marshal,
Martin Baele, Treasurer,
........................ Steward,
\
William C. Cole, Secretary,
........................ Steward,
Thomas Teesdale, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baele, Martin
McCommas, Francis Marion
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, P. M.
Murray, Thomas Aloyious
Claibourne, Robert King, P. M.
Pearson, William Rose
Cole, William Christian
Peters, Clarencf' Edward
Cole, William Henry
Routledge, William Henry
Fuller, John Henry, P. M.
Scott, Elmer Livenstone
Hoxsie, Ernest Jake
Scheiber, Louis John
Kincaid, George Harvey
Teesdale, Thomas
Werntz, Gabriel, P. M.
Laine, Samuel Augustus
Wheeler, Moses Chandler, P. M.
Mauk, George Washington
-20

CONCORD LODGE, No. u7.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Francis Lyon, Master,
Wm. Don Beech, Sen. Deacon,
Frederick A. Pearl, Sen. Warden,
Wm. Wesley Harris, Jun. Deacon,
George J. Harris, Junior Warden, Carl William, Marshal,
G. W. Henry Li<'hthardt, Treas.,
A. Mcintire Braddock, Steward,
W. Henry Rev.mer, Secretary,
John Menke, Steward,
Albert Elgin Robinson, Tyler.
Beaton, Carl William, P. M.
Beech, William Don
Bishop, Arthur Tucker
Book, Franklin Weaver
Bowsher, Amos Luther
Braddock, Alfred Mcintire

139

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

138

MEMBERS:
Brendel, John Philip
Byrne, William James
Carroll, Edgar Barclay, P. M.
... Carroll, John Francis
Caswell, William Averill
Chapman, John Maurice, P. M.

..

'.

Chatfield, Thomas F.
Coppersmith, Michael Thos., P. M.
Dri;ge, Otto Daniel
Dunbar, Alexancler
Duncan, Cornelius
Fairchild, Charles Herbert
Fischer, Henry
Fox, Thomas, P. M.
Gerrish, Samuel Howard, P. M.
Gerrish, Edward Laidley
Gilmore, Robert McCallen
Gillinwaters, Grant Franklin
Godwin, Th'.lmas
Gorth, · Michael
Green, Charles Frederick
Gregory, Eugene Julius, P. M.
Guthrie, John William
Harrell, Albert Marshal
Harris, George J.
Harris, William Wesley
Harvey, Gregory Luca&
Heilbron, Henry August, P. M.
Herzog, Philip
Hesson, Thomas Joseph, P. M.
Hevener, William Henry, P. M.
Hevener, W111iam Charles
Holzinger, Herman
Hunt, Frederick Chesbrow
Irvine, William John
J~mes, James Merrill
Johnson, A. DeMontfredy, P. M.
Jones, William Rowland, P. M.
Jones, William
Jordan, Luther Campbell
Korn, Seymour
Lang, Joseph
Lichthardt, George W. Henry
Longton, Henry
Lyon, Clarence Frothingham
Lyon, James Francis
Matthias, Louis Wm., P. M. •
McAllister, Welford Clarenee

McFarlane, Arthur Alpine
McKibbin, George
McLaughlin, William P. M.
Menke, Anton
Menke, John
Moll, Philip Harry
Morten, John L.
.Nevis, Manuel Silva
Nuttall, Levi, P. M.
0 'Brien, Alfred Woodbury
Oldfield, Wm. Baggaley, P. M.
Pearl, Frederick Albert
Platt, Philemon Eli
Pope, Samuel, Jr.
Poska, Samuel
Propo, Joel Lee
Reynold11, George Henry
Robinson, Albert Elgin, P. M.
Saemann, Carl
Sanderson, Marion
Schaefer, Peter
Schindler, Louis Cyrus, P. M.
Schocke, Charles August, P. M.
Schroth, John George
Schumacher, George Max
Schumacher, Oscar Henry
Senf, Henry
Senf, Henry Andrew
Sheppar.l, Frederick Augustus
Simmonds, William Shape]
Simonsen, Carl
Smith, Eli Mitehel
Smith, Alexander Miller
Vicary, George Salsei'
Wahrhaftig, Moses Solomon
Walsh, William
Watkins, Richard, P. M.
W11tkins, Richard Malcolm
Whitelaw, John, P. M.
Wiesemann, George
Wylie, John Wellington, P. M.
Young, Wiliam Henry

-96

140

ROSTER.

CLINTOtl LODGE, No. ug.
Igo, Shasta County.
Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moou.
OFFICERS:
James Whittington George, Master, William Good~ll, Senior Deacon,
C. Whit. George, Sen. Warden,
Chas. Dillon Woodfill, Jun. Deacon,
L. Forest Barlow, Jun. Warden,
Edward Lull Ballou; Marshal,
Alexander Leiter, Treasurer,
Charles Boyd, Steward,
Charles N. Kingsbury, Secretary,
Edward Dennis Jones, Steward,
Robert Jones, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ballou, Edward Lull, P. M.
Barlow, Lewis Forest
Berg, Robert
Boyd, Charles
Drynan, Angus James
Eldridge, Millard Filmore
George, James Whittington, P. M.
George, Charleo Grant
George, Charles Whittington
Gill, James William
Goodall, William, P. M.
Hart, Thomas Henry
Higgins, Henry Everett
Higgins, Jerome Blanchard
Jones, Thadius Alonzo, Sr., P. M.
fones, Thadius Alonzo, Jr.
Jones, Robert

Jones, Edward Dennis
Kingsbury, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Kingsbury, Albert Nelson, P. M.
Kingsbury, John Parker
·
Kingsbury, Charles Barnes
Lagerson, Frederick William
Leiter,. Alexander, Sr., P . M.
Leiter, Alexander, Jr., P . M.
Lewis, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Moon, James Luman
McGinnis, Stanton
Nealy, Clarence
Polk, William Thomas Gillis
Richter, Charles Herman
Voss, Carl George
Woodfill, Charles Dillon
-33

FIDELITY LODGE, No. 120. ·
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Philo Albro, Master,
W. Albrecht Radius, Sen. .Deacon,
Joseph D. Abrams, Sen. Warden,
Edwin A. Wasserman, Jun. Deacon,
Roy Block, Junior Warden,
Henry Levy, Marshal,
Max Goldman, Treasurer,
Harry Elias Heineman, Steward,
Frederick Barry, Secretary,
Simon Lazarus Lansberg, Steward,
Mitchell Joseph Myers, Tyler.

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Bloch, Louis
Block, Harry
Block, Roy
Bloom, Joshua Harry
Bumenthal, Leo
Borkheim, Abraham
Bornstein, Morris Sella
Bouquet, Joseph Anton
Bowers, William Emette
Brandt, Maurice
Brenner, Gustave, P. M .
Breyer, J ·oseph Leopold
Brod, Amiel Henry
Brooks, Max
Brown, Abraham Lincoln
Brown, Bernard Charles
Brown, Isidor Irwing
Brown, Morris
Brown, Nathan
Brownstein, Julius
Bugbee, Maxwell Greene
Burns, Thomas Pa trick
Cahen, Adolf
Cahn, Julius I.
Cecil, John
Christmas, Frank A.
Classen, Adolph F. A.
Cla:yburgh, Moses
Clingman, George Evans, P. M..
Coblentz, Julius
Coburn, Martin Van Buren
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Adolph
Cohn, Gabriel
Cohn, Gerson
Cohn, Robert David
Cohn, Theodore, P. M.
Colson, Edward Augustus
Colton, r,ouis Arthur
Cooper, Leopold
Cramer, Charles Wesley
Daglow, Leopold
Damm, Richard Oscar
Dannenbaum, Arthur Joseph
Dannenbaum, Samuel

Aaron, Leopoid
Aaron, Victor
Abraham, Max
Abraham, Henry
Abraham, Samuel
Abrams, Augustus Davirl
Abrams, Henry Moses
Abrams, Joseph David
Adler, Albert Stanley
Albro, John Philo
Alexander, Michael Sanford
Allan, ClarPnce Elton
Allenberg, Charles
Anina, Juan
Armer, Andrew Milton, P. M.
Armer, Benjamin. P. M . .
Armer, Joseph Louis, P . M.
Armuth, Alfred Samuel
Aronson, Sol
Arzner, Louis A.
Bachman, Arthur
Bach!fian, Lawrence
Baer, Leopold, P. M.
Ballin, Maurice
Barnett, Abraham Thomas, P . M.
Barry, Frederick
Baruch, Frederick
Bauer, Moses
Bauer, Samuel
Baumann, Sigmund
Beck, John Alex.
Behm, Emanuel
Behrendt, Richard
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Berg, Sigmund Fred
Bernard, Samuel Taylor
Bernstein, Samuel
Bernstein, Sylvan Louis
Bienenfeld, Bernard
Bier, Charles Sigmund
Bier, Hypolite
Bier, Joseph Edward
Blaskower, Marks
Bloch, Abraham Isaac
Bloch, Henry Maier

141

142

Davidson, Isidor Peter
Davis, Alex. Harold
Davis, Moses
Davis, Phillip, P. M.
Day, Robert, P. M.
Dinkelspiel, Emile
Dinkelspiel, Joseph Samuel
Dinkelspiel, Samuel, P. M.
Ehrman, Alexis Leon
Einstein, Daniel
Eisenbach, Julian
Eisenberg, Ignacz N.
Eisenstein, Charles
Eisner, Milton Sidney, P. M.
Elberg, Abraham
Elberg, Isadore
~Iberg, Solomon
Ellis, George Wentworth
Ellis, James Michael, P. M.
Ellis, Milton Hyman
Emanuel, Joseph Lewis
Emmerling, John
Englander, Henry Max
Eppinger, Jacob
Eppinger, Josua
Erlanger, Simon
Fabian, Frank William
Falkenstein, Monroe Henry
Feldenheimer, Alex.
Fenster, Isidore
Fetherstonhaugh, Frank C.
Fisher, Oscar
Flamm, Gustav
Flatow, Philip
Fleischman, Herman F.
FleiscQ.man, Mathias. Reuben
Fletcher, David Maas
Fogel, Emanuel
Fogel, George
Foley, Frederick William
Frank, Ludwig
Frank, Morris Emanuel
Frank, Manuel E.. Houston
Frankel, Bernard Emil
Frankenberg, Joseph
Franklin, Max

ROSTER.
Freidenrich, David
Freidlander, Louis
Friedman, Abraham Lincoln
Friedman, Max
Friedman, Moses
]!'riedmann, Lazar
Friedmann, Samuel
Frohman, Henry
Fulda, Edward
Gabriel, Julius
Galland, Barney Bean
Galland, Edward Ralph
Gamblitz, Lee Robert
~e!'S0~, 1 J11aac
Getleson, Harry
Getz, Jules Jacob
Getz, Louis
Goldberg,· Adolph
Goldberg, Harry Montefiore
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
Goldman, Max, P. M.
Goldsmith, Edmund M.
Goodfriend, Isidore ·
Goodman, Edward Abraham
Goodman, Isadore
Goodman, Leo Lester
Gottlob, Joseph
Gradwohl, David
Greenebaum, Joseph Leon
Gruhn, Joseph Messing
Guggenhime, David Joseph
Gutte, Isidore
Hammond, Samuel Chester
Harris, Adolph
Harris, Neal
Hart, Martin Edward
Haub, Charels Conrad
Hausman, Louis
Heller, Emanuel Siegfried
Heineman, Harry Elia~
Heineman, Irving Scott
Herrscher, Joseph
Heyman, Gustave
H l'yman, Julius
He~'lJl an, Oscar
Hildebrandt, Wiliiam Charles

ROSTER.

•

Hoffman, Lawrence Harold
Hoffman, Melville Gustave
Hoffman, William Joseph
Honigsberger, Leon
Hufschmidt, Louis
Hummel, Mathew George
Hyman, Abe
Hyman, Charles Shepard
Ickelheimer, Samuel
Israel, Julius Maurice
Jacobovics, Philipp, P. M.
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Alfred B.
Jacobs, Charles Sodark
Jacobs, Hyme
Jacobs, Isidor
Jacobs, Julius
Jacobs, Lester Henry
Jacobs, Theodore Henry
Jaeger, Frederick Charles
Jellinek, Emil Otto
Johnson, Harry Lee
Joseph, Joseph
Juda, Leon
Juda, Morris
Juda, Simon Felix
Kahn, Aaron
Kahn, Frederick
Kahn, Samuel Sigmund
Kahn, Sol
Kammerer, George
Katten, Simon
Keiner, Herman
Klinger, William Mark
Koenig, F erdinand
Koehncke, .Ch~stian Henry
Kohlberg, Eugene Lincoln
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig
Kohn, Charles
Korn, Albert
Korn, Eµgene
Krobitzsch, Rudolph William
Kullman, Herbert
Lachman, Adolph Joseph
. Lachman, Albert
Lachman, H enry

Lafee, Marcus
Lansburgh, Simon Lazarus
Lapidaire, Harry
Latz, Benjamin
Lederer, Herman
Lehouse, Louis Gustave
Leibold, Jacob George, P. M.
Leszynsky, Leon
Levin, Isidor
Levison, Charles Gabriel
Levy, Charles
Levy, Eugene Walter
Levy, Henry
Le~y, Henry
Levy, Herbert
Levy, Isaac
Levy, Isaac Kaufman
Levy, Isidore Nathan, P. M.
Levy, Jack Morris
Levy, Louis
Levy, Meyer Solomon
Levy, Moses Louis
Le' y, Morris Harris
Levy, Michael
Levy, Philip
Lewald, Eugen Charles
Lewis, Emanuel
Lewis, William
Lezinsky, Ferdinand
Lipman, Joseph
Lipman, Louis
Loeb, Solomon
Loewe, Joseph Maurice
Loewy, Edmund
Loewenstein, Maurice Frank
Louisson, Edward Baum
Lowenstein, Bernard
L owenstein, Samuel
Mack, Simon
Macy, William Harden
Manheim, Gutsave Adolph
Manheim, Henry Simon, P. M.
Manheim, Pauld Bernard
Mann, Brimo Max
Mar cus, Louis Ferdinand
Mnks, Mannheim

143

144
Marks, Samuel Morris
Marks, William
Matson, Charels Peter
Mauser, Henry
Mayer, Henry
Mayer, Max
Mayer, Morris
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Mayer, Solomon Jul'ius
McCray, Charles Carroll
McDevitt, Daniel
Mclsaacs, Donald Cushing
Mendelsohn, Morris P.
Merzbach, F elix Herman
Metzger, Charles
Meyer, Harry
Miller, Isaac
Miner, James ' Arthur
Moise, Philip Henry
Morgenstern, Louis Adolph
Morris, Theodore
Munter, Leo
Musso, John
Myers, George Henry
Myers, Isador Barnard
Myers, Louis
Myers, Mitchell Joseph
Myers, Robert
Naphtaly, Joseph
Nathan, Charles
Nathan, llerman
Neustadter, Louis William
Neustadter, Newton Henry
Newhouse, William Daniel
N ewman, Josepti
Nieto, Jacob, P. M.
Ottenheimer, Henry Joseph
Ottenheimer M1utin Carrie
Ottenheimer, Sigmund William
Page, Ilamilton
Pauson, Charles Arthur
Pauson, Jacob William
Piexotto, Edgar Davis
Platshek, Julius, P. M .
Plant, Charles
Pollitz, Edward

ROSTER.
Priester, Joseph
Raas, Andre
Radius, Walter Albrecht
Rapheld, Maurice Lehman
Redlick, Abraham Lincoln
Rich, Alfred Jo.,eph
Richards, Theodore
Roberts, Andrew Wellington
Robinson, Louis Allen
Robitscher, Earl Moses
Rosenbaum, Albert Sidney
Rosenberg, Melville Benjamin
Rosener1 Charles Sa.muel ·
Rosenbaum, Samuel Moses
Rosenblum, Samuel
Rosenshi'le, Matthias
Rosenthal, Joseph
Rosenthal, Marcus
Roth, Maximilian
Rothschild, Charles
Rothschild, Herbert Lionel
Rothschild, Job>i
Rummelsburg, Charles
Sachs, Lippm1>-n
Sahlein, Moses
Salfield, Dav1 d
Samter, Ma•ks
Samter, Sa"!luel Marks
Savannah, Michael
Schirmer, Frederick August F
Schlessinger, Charles, P. M.
Schmidt, Maurice
Schmulian, Alfred
Schnaittacher, Sylvain
Schoenfeld, David Michel
Schoenfeld, Jacob
Schussler, Henry
Schutz, Jacob Julius
Schwabacher, Louis Abraham
Schwarzchild, Julius
Schweitzer, Morris
Seeligsohn, Selig Max
Selig, Philip
Shainwald, Charles Louis
Sideman, Morris Jacob
Siegel, Julius

ROSTER.
Silverberg, Joseph S.
Silverman, .roeeph
Silverman, Moritz
Silveretane, Emanuel
Silverstone, Sholom
Siminoff, Morrie
Simon, Charles .Jacob
Simon, Martin Ephraim
Simon, Siegfried
Smith, Joseph
Soboslay, Julius
Solomon, Abraham
Solomons, Lucius Lawrence, P . M.
Spitz, Jacob
Stark, Edward Joseph
Stearne, Henry Otis
Steiner, Albei:t
Steinman, Adolph John
Stenge, Harry
Stein, Henry
Stettheimer, Walter Walter
Stirewalt, H enry Walter
Stone, Benjamin Lester, P. M.
Stone, Marcus L.
Stone, Leon Daniel
Straesburger, Isaac, P. M.
Straus, Louis
s~.IaUBB, Moses
)
Strause, Samuel
Streeten, James Morgan
Su~skind, Sylvan H.
Sussman, Henry
Swift, Deal! Richmond
Tadich, Ivan Vincent
Thorner, Theodore ·
Tommereg, Anders Emil
Trachman, H enry Jacques
Triest, Frank

10

145

Tri.est, Martin
Ulman, Victor Richmond
Unna, Harry
Voorsanger, Abraham Wol:f
Voorsanger, Jacob, P. M.
Voorsanger, Leon Morris
Voorsanger, Solomon
Voorsanger, William Casper
Wallenstein, Herman Moses
Walsh, Richard
Walter, Sanford Frederick
Wascewitz, Morris Herman, P. M.
W asseman, Edwin Adams
Waterman, Louis Philip
Wedel, John Michel
W eil, Adolph Bert
Weil, Leo
Weinshenk, Charles
Weinstein, Morris
Weissbein, .Tacob
Weissbein, Joseph
W ertheimer, Aubrey Robert
Westheimer, John Ferdinand
W eyl, Bernardo
Wheeler, Charles Stutson
Wigmore, James
Willard, Maurice
Winter, John Frederick
Wise, Julius
Wise, Otto Irving
Wise, Wallace Alex., P. M.
Wolf, Jacob William
Wolf, Julius Levy
Wdf, Morris Peter
Wolff, William
Wollner, Jacob
Zel!erbaeh, Jacob Charles
Zuckerman, Adolph-442.

.
ROS'l'ER.

146

ROSTER.

. IONIC LODGE, No.

121.

Gambs, Ferdinand
Gamble, Samuel
Goold, Charles Gardner
Hall, Myron Ward, P. M.
Harison, Ralph
Harland, Joel A.
Hili, James D.
Hook, James S.
Hough, William Henry
Hook, Vincent
Lawrence, Frederick
Leach, Claud Reznor
Lynch, William
McCullough, Daniel
Muse, William Gladstone
Muse, George Oliver
Palmer, Eliphalet Charles
Palmer, Louis R.
Reis, William Betts

Iowa Hill, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

t

MEMBERS:
Adge Frederick Isadore
Mellor, Clarence Elmer
Papa, J ·o hn
Adge: Isadore William
Booth, Garrett
Robinson, Thomas
Booth, Newton Elmer
Rodoni, Aqullline
Bissett, William Nelson, P. M.
Shulze, Frederick Henry
Buffo, Anthony
Stemple, Henry Jo~n
Eddings, George Franklin
:;itewart, James Davis
Edwards, Richard
Wiesler, William Henry
James Thomas Ward, P. M.
Williamson, George Thomas
McGr~w, Dennis Joseph
Yoder, John Franklin

-20

147

Read, Egbert B.
Sharp, Corodon, P. M.
Sherburne, Louis Flanders, P. M.
Sh1ieves, Frederick
Sherburne, John 0.
Simeas, John
Silveira, Joseph L.
Simpson, Michael Lewis
Smith, George J.
Smith, Duncan Lewellen
Sp1mcer, Harry Fremont
Stow, James Monroe
Westcott, George M.
Williams, Arthur
Wiley, George
Witten, Charles Lincoln
Williams, John
Wood, Fred V.
Wi.tt, Frederick William
-56.

..
ALAMO LO_DGE, No.

122.

SOTOYOME LODGE, No.

Walnut Creek, Contra Costa County.

Healdsburg, Sonoma County.

. gs ' Saturday of or next succee ding Full Moon.
Stated M ee tm

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Joseph L. Silveira, Senior Deacon,
Louis Lehman, Junior Deacon,
Cecil J. Booth, Master.
William Hough, Senior Warden,
Corodon Sharp, Marshal,
Harry F. Spencer, Junior Warden, Arthur Williams, Steward,
Claud R. Leach, Treasurer,
W S Burpee Steward,
B A derson Secretary,
· ·
'
Eugene . n
'
Eliphalet C. Palmer, Tyler.

Abratt, John
Andreason, Rasmussen
Anderson, Robert Lawrence
Anderson, Eugene Blythe
. Baldwin, Nathan Ira
Bartola, D. John
Biggs, Walter Hicks, .P. M.
Booth, Robert Fre.ilerick
Booth, Cecil James, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Burpee, Windfield Scott
Chaboya, Benjamin
Compton, Peter WooO.
Clark Albert Eldon
Close' Clarence William
Dale;, James Marion, P. M .
Daley, Charles E.
Daley, .James E.
Edwards, John

123.

• •

OFFICERS:
Oscar J. Litchfield, Master,
Eli Bush, Senior Deacon,
Geo. Cyrus Alexander, Sen. Warden
Harvey
Chester Frost, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Henry Skinner, Jun. Warden,
Asa C. Adams, Marshal,
Matthias Raabe, Treasurer,
Lieualten J. Hall, Steward,
John Leavitt Bates, Secretary,
Cherles
Wilfred Bourne, Steward,
Paris Jasper Ferguson, Chaplain,
Zemira D. Nickersen, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Asa C.
Bidwell, John
Akxander, George Cyrus
Black, Harvy Edward
Allendon, William Henry
Blackburn,
George
Allendon, Arthur
Bourne, Charles Wilfred
Allcndon, John
Briggs, Hiram
Andrews, George Ben.jamin
Burroughs,
Robert Edward
Baer, Reuben Edward
Bufih, l!;Ji
Barnes, William Henry, P . M.
Butterfield, George Henrv, P. M.
Bates, John Leavitt
Cake, Everette Pierce

148

ROSTER.

Coffman, Nelson Bradley
Cox, Nathan Henry, P. M.
Cox, Joseph David
Cooke, ,Frank Willis
Coffman, James Trisler
Crocker, Harry Bosworth
Doane, Lafayette William
Eby, Edwin Dayton, P. M.
Etter, Wade Hampton
Ferguson, Paris Jasper
Fe1guson, William Was~., P. M.
Fitzgerald, Matthias
Foote, Charles Hardy
Fr~st, Harvey Chester
Frost, Martin Van B.
Gibson, Thomas Jefferson
Goddard, Daniel Nevada
Gobbi, Barney
Gunn, John Henry, P. M.
Goldstein, Joseph A.
Grant, Frederick Thomas
Gray, Edward Swinton, P. M
Hall, Clarence Conway
Hall, Lieuallen J., Jr.
Hall, Maitland Grant 1'
Hardy, Jonathan
Hazer, Frank
Henning, John Abraham
Hewett, Clyde Amos
Hicks, Walter Eugene
Holmes, William Frank
Hooten, Martin Van B., P. M
Hopper, Henry Lee
Horton, Samuel
Huffman, Joseph Elmore
Jacks, Albert Rosco
Jay, William Henry
Kennedy, George HenrY.
Kimball, Charles Lloyd'
Koperg, Louis Carl
Larenzini, Dominico
Laymance, Isaac Cartin
Legh, Rooert Percy
Learn, Abraham Lincol:tt
Lewis, Calvin McMillin
Litchfield, Oscar J.

Long, George Washington
Mack, Frank Fremont
Matthews, Charles Wesley, Sr.
Matthews, Charles Wesley, Jr.
Matthews, John Wesley
Mayo, Joseph, P. M.
Mccutchan, James B.
Mccutchan, William Hugh
McDonnell, Henry
McMinn, Joseph Andrew.
McNamara, James Thomas, P . M.
Meyer, Samuel
Meyer, Louis
Meyer, Harry Herpert
Miller, George William, P. M.
Mickelson, Otto Emil
Minetti, Antonio Perellis
Moreland, William Walter
Murdock, Glen Elbert
Nay, Heber Lewis
Nickerson, Zemira Doane
Norton, Edward Molloy
Osborn, Edward Welch
Ottiner, Henry Christian
Passalacqua, Andrew D.
Patrick, James
Patterson, J. J.
Patterson, Clyde Ray
Papera, Natale
Petray, Ransom Alex.
Peterson, Peter Christian
Phillips, Samuel Edward
Pitts, Frank
Powell, Ransom
Price, Pitman· H.
Provines, Alex. Brookie
Provines, Lewis Bissell
Priest, William Henry
Raabe, Matthias, P. M.
Raymond, Charles Francis
Reniff, Lewis Arnold
Rickman, James Louis
Roemer, Ernest Edward
Rosenberg, Melville Milton
. Rowland, Edwin Stanton
Seawell, James William

ROSTER.
Seawell, James Walter
Shf:'rriffs, George
Silberstein, Jacob
Skinner, William Henry
Soennikson, Henry Nisson
Somes, James
Stoffa!, Phil
Stone, Mack Voorhees
Staton, Avery Blythe
Swisher, James Riley
Temple, William
Terry, James William
Thompson, .Tohn Morrow
Thompson, Edwin Davis
Truitt, John Richmond

149
Vun Alen, William
Wall, Henry Chesley
Walters, Solomon
Warfield, George H., P. M.
Wallace, Glen Allen
Warner, Paul Earl
Whitney, William Benjamin
Wickham, Charles
Wilcox, George P.
Wiltermood, William Robert
Wilson, John Hodgson
Young, John, P. M.
Young, John Shaw
Zimmerman, Augusta David.
-139.

TABLE MOUNTAIN LODGE,

.

.

No. 124.

Cterolree, Butte County.
Stated Meetings s t d
' a ur ay of or next preceding Full M
oon.
OFFICERS·
Edwin Thomas James Master
,
John Elisha Wells se'n W d.
'
. ar e:a,
Joseph Hurst Davis, Jun. Warden
Daniel
. . Claud Morgal'I. , T reasurer, '
Wilham S. Williams, Secretary.
Andrews, Robert D.
.Bader, Charels William
Bader, Henry Franklin, P. M.
Blomme, John
Bowers, Elam P.
Camp bell, James Alex.
Chiv-ell, Thomas Henry
Cohn, Levi
Cory, Francis Marion
Davis, Joseph Harst
Dolan, Martin John
Gassaway, Arthur Decatur
Gooday, Isaac Figle
·
Grant, Lincoln Ulyslfes
Hengy, William Sinclair

MEMBERS:
Henry, Charles Allen
Holub, Frank
Hufford, John Newton
James, Edwin Thomas
Jones, William Peter
Jones, Richard Henry, P. M.
Jones, Elias Harns, P. M.
Johnson, Charles Henry
Jurgensen, Peter Alex.
L·ee, Levi Woodbury
Legunde, It11rman
Lott, Charles Fayette, P. M.
Mack, William Edward
Medanich, George, P. M.
Mellon, Wil!iam James

ROSTER.

150

Morgan, Daniel Claud
Morgan, Evan William
Morrison, John
Myers, Lester Lewellen, P. M.
Nisbet, Andrew
Patterson, Jacob
Powers, Robert Sutherland
Rowe, James
Ryan, Andrew
Smith, David Walter

ROSTER.

Sovereign, George Whitefield
Spangler, Christe Marshal
'!'ate, Frank Raymond
Vandegrift, Samuel A.
White, Henry Caldwell, P. M
Whitelaw, John Frederick
Williams, David Herbert
Williams, William S.
Wilson, Edgar Calvin
Wells, John Elisha-50.

LA FAYETTE LODGE, No.

126.

Sebastopol. Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Albertus E. Finnell, Master,
Ralph Evans Swarts, Senior D.,
David D. Sinclair, Senior Warden, ..................................•. Junior Deacon,
Jos. Clinton Moran, Jun. Warden, .........,.............................., Marshal,
Thomas Garrott Wilton, Treasurer, Harold Morrison, Steward.
Valentine Watson, Secretary,
William Walter Williams, Steward,
........................................,Tyler,
Armstrong, George Riley
Armstrong, George James
Atzeroth, Henry Brugge
Baxter, Samuel Emanuel
Baity, William Henry .
Benepe, Wesley Leander
Blanchari, David Henry
Burroughs, David
Burroughs, John
Case, Arthur Daniel .
Chenoweth, James Merrett
CUne, John Wesley
Coats, William Bradshaw
Cody, Mathew
Compton, Thomas Jefferson
Co!'bin, George Henry
Crawford, Jesse B.
Davis, Henry Clay
DoJ.ge, Fred Augustus

ME.MEERS:
Dufrane, Vital
Espey, George Moultrie
Esvey, Sydney; P. M.
Estes, Hickman
Ewing, Loer McDonald
Finnell, Alburtus Evermont.
Graham, Simon
Hall, Albert Judson
Harvey, Charles Edward
Hill, Charles Nelson
Howell, L. V. Hardenburg, P. M .
Hunt, William Jesse
Hurlbut, Edwin T. Monroe, P M.
Jacobs, William
Kerr, William James
:J,rimhle, Charles, P. M.
Kinnes, David Mandis
Laton, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Laton, E1ward Lee

..

Libby, George Wilford, P. M.
Libby, George Henry
Loser, John Benjamin
Ly;ich, George Leslie
Mallary, Charles Wesley
Markham, Henry Clay
Martin, Frank Milton, P. M.
McDonald, David Harrison
McGuire, William Pleasant
Mennetti, A. G. -Perrelli
Monroe, Walter Wavard
Moran, Joseph Clinton
Morris, Harry Bullen, P . M.
Morrison, Harold
Muggi, Christian
Nichols, Henry James
Oliver, Charles
Osl;orn, Alex.
Palmer, Francis Warren
Phillips, Arthur Stephens
Proctor, David Clinton
Ragle, Alex.
·
Riekard, William Goodman, P. M.
Ross, William Danforth
Ross, Losson
Ross, Fernando Elmer
Ross, Robert

151

Sanborn, George Newell
Sandmeyer, Mathias
Sawyer, Joeeph Franklin
Scammon, Charles Melville
Scheidecker, Albert Frederick
Searles, Frank M.
Seely, David
Shelly, John Calhoun
Sinclair, David Drake
Sibly, Edward Franklin
Spangler, Cyrus Asbury
. Speller, Charles George
Story, Jerome Augustus
Story, James Augustus
Strout, George Allen, P. M.
Sullivan, Asa Isaac
Surrhyne, Robert Henry
Swarts, Ralph Evans
Watson, Valentine
Walk, Edward Grant
Walker, Joseph Erskine
Webber, Henry C.
W~fks, Horace Munson
Wilton, 'Thomas Garrett, P. M
Withington, Peter Stanton
Williams, John Amos
Williams'. William Walter-92

HERMANN LODGR N~

127.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Mo~day in each month.
OFFICERS:
August Busse, Master,
Ge
orge A. Creon, Senior Deac<'n
0 tto Lemcke, Senior Warden,·
W111'
u'
iam "'· Gercke, Junior DePcon
William Eicher, Junior Warden
Louis ZeIS's M h 1
D' d ·
'
, ars a,
ie ~ch B. Uhte, Treasurer,
Vietor Wolf, Steward,
Ludwig Schumacher, Secretary,
Frederick Menke, Stewarr'1
Herman Schoene Tyler.

152

Affolter, Joseph
Ahlers, Henry
Alber, Emil
Alkalay, Loopold. J.
Alpers, George
Atzeroth, Edlef
Baader, John
Bachmann, Adolph
Bahrs, George H.
Barth, William H.
Baumgartner, John
Beekh, Gustav Carl, P. M.
Be1ger, David
Blaich, Adolph
Blucher, George Henry
Blunck, Carl Ernst
Bonig, August
Borgfeldt, William H.
Breuss, Michael A.
Bruns, Charles H.
Burgin, Gustav
Busse, August, P. M.
Carillon, Charles A.
Clairmont, Ralph de1 P. M.
Creon, George A.
Dickman, Charles A.
Dierks, Theodor
Druhm, Carl
Eggeling, Henry
Eicher, William
Emmrich, Ernst
]'ink, Conrad
Fischer, John, P. M.
Fisher, John Henry, Jr.
Fritsch, Emil
}'uendeling, Julius
Gail, Andreas
Gall, Balthes G.
Gebhardt, Charles A. A.
Geilfuss, Heriry, P. M.
Gereke, Fritz,P. M.
Gercke, William H.
Gier, Theodor
Grosse, ,Alfred B.
Hubenicht, Fritz

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Hackfeld, Hermann
Hagemann, Charlee, Jr.
Hagemann, Fritz, P. M.
Hansen, Charles Emil, P. M .
Hansen, Volquart Nicbola~
Hatteroth, William
Hechinger, Louis C.
Heide, Christian F.
Heinstadt, Peter
Heinz, Christopher
Hellberg, Henry
Hennings, Adolf
Hermann, John
Herold, Rudolph, Jr.
· Hess, Joseph
Hildebrandt, Charles Henry
Hink, Louis
Hinrichsen, Henry
Ickier, Henry
Jonassen, Alfred
Joos, George
Jordan, Ernst C. H.
Jordan, Rudolf
. Kaiser, Fritz
Keil, Gustav
Kenitzer, Henry, P. M.
Kiefer, Philipp
Klaa11sen, Henry
Kleiber, Paul
Klevesahl, Ernst P. C.
Kohler, William
Kohn, Carl F.
Kohs, John
Korbel, Franz
Koster, August
Kress, Sebastian B.
Krieg, Anton
Krieg, Henry Sebastian
Krumholz, Jacop
h.utech, George
Lemcke, Otto
Levy, Louie
Lu!'heinger; George H..
Mainze-r, Julius M.
Marquard, Henry

ROSTER.
Maurer, Leo
Menke, Frederick
Mensing, John H.
Meyer, August F.
Meyer, Henry
M~ller, Fritz
Muller, Louie, P. M.
Muller, Philipp
Munster, John Henry
Neuhaus, Christian H.
No1dholz, }'rederick J.
Oppel, J'lhn V.
Plagemann, Henry
Pocesenbacher, Ludwig
Quardt, John
Raith, Johannes C.
Rapp, John
Rehn, Charles
Reichwald, Paul
Reidt, Johannes
Remcneperger, Ulrich
Rohrbach, Joseph Philipp
Rohte, Cha1les Emil, P. M.
Rolfe, Ernst
Rueqiger, Julius
Rust, Ferdinand
Sahng, Theodor
Schaefer, Fritz
Schernetein, Karl
Schilling, William F.
Schlichting, Claus H.
Schlichtmann, John
Schmidt, Henry
Schoene, Herman
Schou, Frank M.
Schulte, John G. W.
Schumacher, Ludwig, P. M.
Schussler, Hermann D. A.
Schutt, Carl
Schwarz, Karl August
Schwesinger, Hermann Geo., P. M.
Simmen, John

Sonne, Hermann Theodor
Speekter, Richard
Speidel, Adolph Friedrich
Stanke, Albert P.
Steinbach, William
Sternfeld, Moritz
~ternitzky, Richard, P. M.
Sternitzky, Robert Reinhold
Struven, John
Strawing, Johann Hermann
Theisen, S. Jose.pl!, P. M.
Thiede, Hugo
Trautner, Charles
tum Suden, Otto
Uhte; Diedrich Bernardt
Vocke, Henry K.
Volkman, Carl Moritz
von der Mehden, J. Louis, Jr.
Waizman, Max
Waldenmeier, August
W annenmacher, Robert
Warnke, William N. W.
Wassmann, Hermann
W eie, Arthur H.
Werlen, Frederick F.
W eetphal, Peter
Wiese, John
Wiese, John G. H.
Willweber, Otto
Winter, Moritz
Wohltmann, William
Wolf, Victor
Wolters, Frederiek William
Wolters, George
Wucherer, William
Zeiss, Louis
Zenker, Robert
Zerweck, Ernst
Zimmermann, Gustav
Zinkand, Ferdinand J.
Zinkand, William Charles
-173.

153

15-1

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

VISALIA LODGE, No. 128.
Visalia, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jonas Adelmas Allen, Master,
Frank Lamberson, Senior Deacon,
Fred'k S. Gilbert, Senior Warden, William Jordan Bell, Junior Deacon,
Henry Newman, Junior Warden,
Harry .B eaumont McClure, Marshal,
Lemuel Clason Hyde, Treasurer,
Edgar E. Baker, Steward,
George Depler Smith, Secretary, '
J.ohn William Howard, Steward,
Hubert Cowley Carroll, Chaplain,
Freedom Moulton Rice, Tyler

.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Lincoln
Denny, James Edward
Allen, Jonas Adelmas
Dozier, William Gaillard, Jr.
Allen, Albert Henry
Duckwall, Simon Weaver
Anderson, David Oscar
Dungan, James Wilson
Baker, Edgar E.
Edwards, Duncan M.
Baird, Benjamin Morgan
Ellis, William Josiah
Barton, Franklin Frederick, P. M. Flournoy, William Venable
Bell, William Jordan
l!'rankenau, Max
Berry, Hugh Rier
Fudge, Edmund Jones
Beales, George Francis
Gannon, James Edwin
Braverman, Max
Gilbert, Fri>derick Samuel
Calhoun, Milo Adam
Glasscock, Alpha Hayden
Callison, Robert Henry
Goad, John Enseley
Carroll, Huliert Cowley
Goldstein, Leon
Chambers, Ludlow
Gray, Wheaton Andrew1 P. M.
Chatten, Richard
Graham, Edward McDonald
Chatten, Thomas Alex.
Green, Wilber W.
Chrisman, Ira
Grove, Millard Fillmore
Cohn, Eugene Alfred
Guggenhime, Leon
Combs, Fielding Alex.
Hall, Albion Eugene
Combs, James Ennis
Harter, Isaac Monroe
Couzens, William Jacquenay
Hammond, William Hall
Cor, Edward Theo.
Rausch, Christian
Bausch, Charles Henry Joseph
Cook, Leslie
Cranston, Floyd Cole
Hawkins, Rufus Morgan
Cross, Oscar Reeves
Hayes, Timothy
Cross, William Walter
Holder, Thomas Woodville
Crosett, James Haren
Houston, William Washingt.ou
Crowley, Arthur
Howard, John William
Curtis, William Moses
Hunsaker, Allen
Cutler, Leonard
Hunsaker, Henry
Humphrey, Wyatt Marion
Cut!er, John
Deming, Raymond H.
Hyde, Lemuel Clason, P. M.

..
...

155

Pease, Edwin R.
Iseman, Myer E.
Pettit, Mark Lytton
Jerosalem, Henry
Jordan, John Francis
Pendola, Beneditto
Johnson, John Sublitt
Prothero, Jerome
Judd, Orion Mathias
Quinn, Harry
Kettner, William, P. M.
Ralston, Elza Clark
Kinkier, Charles Henry
Refd, George Victor, P. M .
Larkins, Elwood Oliver
Rice, Freedom Moulton
Lawless, John Byrd
Selcgman, Louis
Levis, Leon
Shiffert, Irving A.
Levinson, Harry
·Simpson, Robert Glenn
Lucier, Louis
Smith, Seth
Maddox, Ben Moyers, P. M.
Smith, Milt.on Wix
May, James Johnston
Smith, George Depler
McVeagh, Edward Erastus
Spear, ,Jacob Benjamin
McFadzean, Daniel, P. M .
Stoneman, Finis Ewing
McClure, Harry Beaumont, P. M.
Sweet, Adolph David
McSwain, Thomas Omar
Th!'mas , Walter Franklin
Miles, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Tuohy, John, P. M.
U11, Fred
Mitchell, Jay E.
Mixter, Francis Wilber
Walker, Charles Jesse
Murray, Abram Hunter, P. M.
..Wallace, William B., P . M.
Murray, Abram Hunter, Jr., P. M. Ward, Frederick William, P. M.
Ward, .Toseph Clarence, P. M.
Newman, Henry
Nuttall, Hassalone
Warner, Frederick Appleton, P.- M.
Orr, Alfred Randall
Waugh, Jasper Dodridge
Osborn, James Orland
Wells, Morgan James
Overall, Daniel Griffith
Wells, William Reed
Overall, Orval
Weishar, Augustus
Owen, Richard Hugh
Wilber, Charley Alvah
Patterson, Thomas J effel'llon
Wright, George Washington
Parker, George Alvia, P. M.
-129.

NICOLAUS LODGE, No.

129•

Wheatland, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Willetts Anderson, Master,
Augustus Riechert, Sen. Deacon,
Edwin T. Manwell, Senior Warden, Plummer Enochs, Junior Dea.Pon,
Edw. Herbert Byron, Jun. Warden, James Polk Kerner, Marshal
Elisha Franklin Enochs, Treasurer, Albert G. Griffiths, Steward,
Wm. Hudson McCulloch, ~ecretary, Price Blackford, Steward,
William Franklin Coffin, Chaplil.in, Albert Alex. Hadley, Tyler

ROSTER.

156
Anderson, ]'rank Willetts
Anderson, George Leander
Atkisson, William Brice
Atkisson, Albert Alpheus
Austin, Edward
Baun, John Frederick, P. M.
Baxter, Willard Morris
Beck, Herman Hanseu
Bennett, Lemuel Jones
Berry, Rufus Cowin
Bevan, Thomas Edward
Blackford, Price
Byron, Edward HerbP.rt
Click, Danial
()Qffin, William Franklin.
Creps, Bertin L.
Creps, Roscoe
Enochs, Elidha Franklin
Enochs, Plummer
Frasier, Daniel
Glazier, Frederick
Griffiths, Albert Gerrard
Grant, Charles Fitch, P. M.
Hadley, Albert Alex.
Haile, Henry
Hanson, W•llard Charles
Hartley, Joseph Robert
Hedger, Joseph Mason
Hicks, James Martin, P. M.
Hicks, Stephen Douglas
Hilliard, Frederick Jesse
Huffaker, Anthony
Hutchinson, Perkins LaF.
Hutchinson, Frederick LaF.
Jasper, William George

•

MEMBERS:
Kerner, James Polk, P. M.
Laz;.dis, John
Landis, James Frederick
Lund, Charles William
Manwell, Edward Tecumsa
Meran, John William
McCulloch, William Hudson
Mccurry, Lewis Waters
McCurry, Samuel Sievers
McFee, William James
Muck, Fraricis Henery
Niemeyer, Herman Albert
Nelms, George Frederick
Oakley, Amasa George
Oyster, William M.
Pincur, Emil
Purinton, Henry Osgood
Purcell, John
Rhrnehart, William Rufus
Riechert, Augustus, P. M.
Roddan, David Farris
Robson, Andrew Armstead
Sowell, Benjamin Franklin
Sowell, Ernest Elmer
Sowell, John Amos
Spencer, Edward George, P. M.
Stoddard, Cyrus
Stratton, George William
Thomas, Lewis Evans
Thomas, William Henry
Uhler, David William
Viles, Carlton Hoodlet
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson
Wolf, Simon, P. M.
-69

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No.

131.

Woodbridge, San Joaquin County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Francis McNoble, Master, J. Edward Crump, Senior Deacon,
Charles R. Rutledge, Sen. Warden, Geo. David Parkinson, Jun. Deaco.11.
Prank Perrott, Marshal,
Camden W. Keen, Jun. Warden,
Edward Harlan Wakefield, Stewar,1.
Amos Boyce, Treasurer,
Blakely Robert Woods, Secretary) Frank De La Ralls, Steward
George. Dunn McClelland, Tyler.
Wm. Henry Treadway, Chaplain,

·ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, George William, P. M.
Arthur, Samuel Richard, P. M.
Ashley, Fi-ank Henry
Beckman, Frank William, P. M.
Beckman, He!lry
Beckman, Theodore Henry, P. M.
Blackley, James
Boyce, Amos
Bra ck, Jacob
Burkett, Thoma~ Robeson P. M.
Caldwell, James Thomas '
Carr, Walter LeGrand
Christian, James Tilden
Corell, William
Corey, John Braly, P. M.
Covell, Allan Palm r r
Covell, Elbert Alla n
Covell, George Francis
Covell, Wright Thompson
Crump, John Edward
Culp, James Elmer
DeVries, Marion
Favinger, George
Groves, Hamilton Shotwell
Harl:', Edward Baker
Hastings, Hervey LeRoy
Hemphill, Edward Hendryx
Henderson, JamP.~ Mitchell
Henderson, William Woods, P. M.
Hickey, John Hurd
Hilliard, Samuel Emlin
Holmes, James William
Housken, GPorge .
Housken, George Edwin
Hull, James Porterfield, P . M.
Huron, William Wilson, P. M.
Hutson, James Lawrence, P. M.
Jahant, Walter Victor
Jefferson, Jacob Price
Johnson, William Horton
Jones, George Washington
Keen, Camden Warren
Keller, John

Langford, George William, P . M.
Latta, S11.m.uel Eikenbarry, P. M.
MrC!elland, Amos Amson, P. M.
McClelland, George Dunn
Mcintosh, Edwin Jonathan
Mcintosh, Thomas Baldwin
McNoble, George Francis
Mills, Freeman Benjamin, P. M.
Myers, Benjamin Sylvester Neil
Newton, Charles Lewis, P . M.
Newton, Charles Victor
Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Newton, Frank Crawford
Ogden, Henry Thomas
Pa1·ker, John Straughn
Parkinson, George Davh•·
Perrott, Frank, P. M.
Ralls, Frank De La
RePd, Jonathan Piere.:
Rutledge, Charles Robert
Rutledge, George
Sargent, James Henry
Sharp, Henry Wilcox
Shinn, John Elmer
Smith, Charles Robertson
Sovereign, Seth
Steen, Moses Duncan Alex.
Thompson, Edwn.rd Rees, P. M.
Thompson, J 'o hn Chatten, P. M.
Thompson, John Henry
Towne, Burton Augustus
Treadway, Orvis Wesley Ring
Treadway, William Henry
Van Gelder, Morris
Vickerson, John Irving
Wakefield, Edward Harlan
White, Willis Washington
Wilken3on, Thomas Edgar
Williams, William Henry
Woods, Albert James
Woods, Blakely Robert, P. M
Woods, John Newton, P. M.
-85.

157

ROSTER.

158

ROSTER.

SINCERITY LODGE, No. 132.
Greenville, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon . .
OFFICERS:
William T. Treleaven, Master
Robert L. Laufman, Sen."Dearon,
Wm. Price Boyden, Sen. Warden,
Frank Kruger, Junior Deacon,
Robt. Aug. Boyden, Jun. Warden, John R. Murray, Marshal,
Robert Leslie McGill, Treasurer,
Alex. D. McMillan, Steward, .
Robert W. Young, Secretary,
Edward A. Ranker, Steward,
·
· Donald W. McKenzie, Tyler.
Abbott, Edward Hiram
Boning, James Henry
Boyden, William Price, P. M.
Boyden, Robert Augustus
Bunnell, Lucius Abraham
Bresler, Charles
Elam, William Arthur
Flynn, William
Goebel, Frederick August
Grnnt, Angus Duncan
Harland, Henry Lumley
Hepler, Charles Y.
Kelley, John Henry
·Kruger, Frank, P. M.
Langrhr, Henry Christian
Laufman, Robert Lee
McCutcheon, Hugh, P. M.
McGill, Robert Leslie

MEMBE!lS:
McKenzie, Donald William
McLeod, Keneth
McMillian, Alex. Dougald
McRorie, Thomas
Morton, William Bennett
Murray, John R., P. M.
Perry, James Elisha, P. M.
Ranker, Edward Arthur
Roeckers, William
Shell, Charles Elsworth
Stover, Charles Franklin
Taylor, James Terrill
Trezise, Thomas Henry, P. M
Treleaven, William Thomas
Trubody, Charles Malcolm
Wardlow, John
Young, Robert William, P. M.

159

MEMBERS:
Blum, Rudolph Antone
Koenig, Theo. Theron
Broan, Joseph James
McCarthy, Thomas Bernard
Cella, John Battista
Mutton, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Down, Charles William
Park, Dean William, P. M.
Ferguson, Sa:omel Benjamin, P M. Quick, John James, P. M. ·
Fisk, Oliver
Schwartz, Charles Adolph
Floto, William Charles
Thomas, John Lewis
Ford, Charles Christopher
Tyacke, Frederick
Hilliard, Miner
Wagner, Daniel, P. M.
Hobron, Samuel Douglas, P. M
Wagner, Charles-20.

VACA VILLE LODGE, No. 134.
Vacaville, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:
Sterling P. Dobbins, Master,
Edwin R. Thurber, Jr., Sen. ·Deacon,
J . Thos. Montgomery, Sen, Warden, Carlton C. Crystal, Junior Deacon,
Orestus H. Allison, Jun. Warden,
Harry Leslie Condon, Marshal,
Harry Danforth Chandler, Treas.,
Wiley Smith Killingsworth, Stewa'l'l,
Sam 'l Franklin Ellison, Secretary, Frank Herbert Clark, Steward,
Harry Nathaniel Jones, Chaplain,
Alanson Chandler Sponslor, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

-35.

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133.
Coulterville, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Douglas Hobron, Master,
Frederic Tyacke, Senior Deacon,
Thos. B. McCarthy, Senior Warden, Thomas Henry Mutton, Jun. Deacon
Rudolph Antone Blum, Jun. Warden Siimud Benjamin Ferguson, Marsha!,
Charles Adolph Schwartz, Treasurer Chal'les Wagner, Steward,
John James Quick, Secretary,
Chas. Christopher Ford, Steward,
Daniel Wagner, Tyler.

Akerly, George Parry
Allison, Orestus Humboldt
Andrews, Edward Cleveland
Apperson, Victor Virgil
Arnold, John Monroe, P. M.
Arnold, George Allen, P. M.
Attkisson, Oscar Brice
Atwater, Henry
Bassett, Alvin Guy
Blum, Jacob, P. M.
Brown, Archibald T.
Buck, Ingalls Kinney, P. M.
Buck, Frank Herbert
Buck, William Henry
Buck, Fred McClellan
Buck, Frank Henry
Buckingham, Thomas Hugh
Cargill, Pardon
Caughy, John

Chandler, Harry Danforth
ChanQler, Frederick Brewster
Chase, Ernst Samuel
Clark, Frank Herbert
Cordon, Harry Leslie
Crystal, Carlton Clark
Derby, Daniel Blanchard
Dobbins, Sterling P.
Dunn, Henry Clay
Ellison, Samuel Franklin
Engstrom, Adolph L.
Eversole, Henry,P. M.
EvErsole, James
Edwards, Walter Hatch
Fetheringham, Charles Allen
Fi~her, Edward
Frame, George ·
Gates, Robert Campbell
Gates, Thomas Lee

ltiO

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

:Nielsen, Carl Henrich
Gamble, Frank Alex.
Gamble, Stephen Everett
Neils, Charles
Goodwin, Woodbury McC.,P. M.
Noel, William Henry
Hagerty, John James
Parker, William Boy<l.
Hawkins, George Marshall
Peterson, Louis Henry
Hartley, Victor Worthington, P. M. Pa!me:i:, Humphrey Parin
Hathaway, Harry Rivers
Reid, Robert Lincoln, P. M.
Hartley, Clement Mailison
Powers, George Adelbert
Haworth, Morris Wells
Price, William Henry, P. M.
Hewitt;Trent Logee
Riechers, Charles
Jones, Robert Hugh
Robinson, Chester Gates
Jenney, Warren C.
Rust, Charles Baldwin
Jones, Harry Nathaniel
Samuels, George Washington
Killingsworth, Wiley Smith
Schroeder, William L'luis
Kowanda, Thomas
Schaefer, Rudolph
Kruse, Fred Herman
Smith, Fred Martin
Lancaster, Ralph Edward
Sponslor, Alanson Chandler
Lawrence, William Edward
Spear, John Watson
Lindquist, Carl Ludwig
Stevenson, Andrew Vincent, P M.'
Losee, Albert William
Stevenson, Georg.e Maupin
Losee, Charles Henry
Stevenson, Charles Albert
Losee, Elmer Lyonidas
Stitt, James Warren
Maclay, Samuel Ralph, P. M
Stanford, David
Manuel, Eli William
Sullivan, James William
Marshall, Francis Freeman
Tate, Horace Phillip
Marshall, Lewis Carson
Thurber, Edwin Thurber
Marshall, Jam es
Thurber, Edw. Robinson, Jr., P. M.
Mt·Bride, William Zeph
Watson, Henry Melville
McFarland, Eugene Elden
Weed, Ulysses Edgar
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, P
Wilson, Lee A.
McMillan, Edw:;.rd Houston
Wilson, Thomas Stanley
McMilian, Robert Boone
Wooderson, Geo. Frederick, P. M.
Moffitt, Rolla Maxwell
Wood, Eugene G.
Montgomery, John Thomas
Wooden, John Henry
Morgan, Bertram Franklin
-107.

..
I

•

MEMBERS:
Alling, Mark Norman
Lewis, Horace Churchill
Anderso:U, John, P. M.
Lorch, James
Bonham, Andie Lester, P . M.
Loker, Victor Manuel
Bonham, William Hervey
Martin, David Patton
Brooke, Thomas J effe•son
Mahl, Godfrey
Bryson, David
McCausland, Ja~es Audley
Case, Carlton Coolidge, P. M.
Ormsby, Elon Arwin
Corson, Joseph .Morrison
Owen, James Rutherford
Davis, Edward Freeman, P. M.
Owen, Henry Taylor
Davis, Edgar Lee
Pearson, Seth Allen
Davis Albert New•.on
Peck, John Loveman, P. M.
Day, Thompson Blount
Perryman, Charles
Day, Gordon Martin
Peters, John Henry
Drace, James Albert
Pope, Sidney Pernell
Dyke, Ozra David
Reid, John Calhoun, P. M.
Rich, Arthur Henry
Eldred, Havilla Pembroke
Ryburn, John Clarke
Freeman, Walter
Frost, Haller Conventi:y, P. M.
Ryburn, David Beattie
Glasgow, Wood Irwin
Sheets, William Henry
Hancock, Arthur Raymond
Seyser, Jacob
Harrison, Charles N orval
Smith, Arthur Thomas
Hopkins, George Marvin
Thomas, Wayne
Thomas, CJharles Wayne, P. M.
Keiver, David William, P. M.
-46

PACIFIC LODGE, No. 136.
San Fr:i.ncisco, San Fra.ncisco County.

M:

VALLEY LODGE, No. 135·
Linden, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Morrison Corson, Master,
James Albert Drace, Senior D.,
Edward Freeman Davis, Sen. W.,
Horace Churchill Lewis, Jun. D,,
Edgar Lee Davis, Junior W.,
David William Keiver, Marshal,
Albert Newton Davis, Treasurer,
Andie Lester Bonham, Steward,
Elon Arwin Ormsby, Secretary,
David Bryson, Steward,
'Sidney Pernell Pope, Chapla.in1
Charles Norval Harrison, Tyler.

161

Stated Meetings, first 'fuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Edward Jackson, Master,
Ed. Samuel Isaacs, Sen. Deacon,
Edward F. Leonard, Sen. Warden; Walter .Scott Chay, Junior D.,
Eugene S. Elkus, Jun. Warden,
Benjamin Russell Wood, Marshal,
George Louis Darling, Treasurer,
Herman Wertsch, Steward,
George Penlington, Secretary,
Ernest Leonard West, Steward,
James Whitten, Tyle~.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Thomas
Ac;lelstein, Samuel
Alexander, Joseph
Anderson, Wellignton Joshua
Altshuler, L evi
Andresen, Niels Julius
Andersen, Niels
Andrews, Edwin Harold
Anderson, James Wright, P. M.
Andrews, Harry Alta
Anderson, John
Armitage, William Henry
11

162

Arnold, Louis Edgar
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Aschheim, Israel Julius, P. M.
Austin, Sampson
Babbitt, John Henry
Babkirk, Alexander .Cain
Baccus, Louis Richard
Baggett, William Thomas, P. M.
Bankey, Charles
Banner, Marcus
Baskerville, Edwin
Baum, Gustus
Beck, Frederick Charles
Beck, William Arthur
Beckley, Lawrence Victor
Bell, Dickson Gabriel
;Berel; Samuel
Berg, Alfred
Berliner, Charles Adolph
Bianchini, Louis
Bien, Joseph
Biller, John
Binge, Theodore C. Daniel
Binner, Theodor
Bloom, Solomon
Bolander, Louis Philip
Boley, Daniel
Booth, Frank Edmund
Borchardt, Paul
Borkheim, William Irwin
Boyd, Colin Macnicol
Bragg, Robert, Jr.
Branderstein, Charles
Bri_g noli, Nicholas Peter
Brisco, Hylton Aubrey
Browell, Jeremiah
Brown, Andrew
Bunzl, Julius
Caley, James Henry Corteen
Cameron, John William
Campbell, James
Caples, John Wallace
Carrick, James Ross, P. M.
Casner, Mark
Casselmann, Julius MolteI
Cavanaugh, James Bernard

ROSTER.
Center, John
Church, David Orion
Clark George Waverley
Clark, James William
Classen, Henry, P. M.
Clow, George B. Newell
Clifford, James Benjamin
Coffin, Lincoln Alverton
Cohen, Philip
Cohen, Simon
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Louis Meyer
Compton, Louis Francis
Congdon, Joseph Hopkins
Conroy, Eugene Chester
Cook, John Graham
Cook, Stonewall Jackson
Cope, James Henry
Cormack, William
Cornehl, Henry
Cousins, Herbert William
Craig, David Calder
Craig, Frank
Craig Lee Darneal
Crandall, Charles Ellis
Crocker, Nathan, P. M.
Crouse, John Miles
Crowe, Joseph
Crowley, Timothy Jay
Crozier, Herbert William
Currie, Robert
Curry, John
Cutting, John Tyler
Daly, Charles Elmer
Damner, Samuel
D 'Ancona, Alexander Dawson
D 'Ancona, David Arnold, P. M.
Daniel, William Lyon
Darling, Charles Sherman
Darling, George Louis, P. M.
Davidson, Alexander Hunter
Davidson, George
Davis, George Eugene
Davis, Arthur Eugene
Delfs, Marcus Alexander
Dibble, William Stow

ROSTER.

•

•

Dickinson, Robert Frank
Dixon, Frank Albert
Doble, Robert McFarland, P.' M.
Dodge, Zenas Upham
Donald, William
Dougherty, Hugh
Dragomanovich, Spiro S. G.
Druhe, John Gerhard
Dundas, Moubray Robert, P. M.
Dunn, Berry Elder
Earle, Henry Halford
Eaton, William Roberts
Edlin, Juda ·
Edwards, Myer Aaron
Edwards, William Harvey, P. M.
Eells, Alexander Grimes
Ehlert, .Charles Henry
Elder, William James
Elkus, Eugene Samuel
Eltinghain, Robert Linnwood
Emmons, Elmer Lamar
Everding, James Campbell
Fairfield, Orlando Weston
Fee, William Marcus
Feldmann, Diedrich
Ferguson, John
Ficke, Charles Henry
Finnegan, Matthew
Fleming, John William
Fraiberger, Max
Fraser, Daniel Gray
Fraser, Edwin Joseph
Frazier, Frank Edward
Freudenberg, Gustav Adolph
Friedhofer, William Ferdinand
Fuller, Andrew Henry
Fulwider, Lucien Edgar
Furman, Henry Matthew
Gardiner, Robert McKay
Garrett, James Hyland
Gauld, James Green
Getz, Bernard
Getz, Marcus
Getz, Solomon, P. M.
Gilbert, John Henry
Gilberts, Edward

Gilmour, James
Gimpel, Marcus Christian
Glass, Samuel
Goetze, Frederick William
Goldberg, Louis Raphel
Goldsmith, Joseph LeConte
Goldstein, Simon
Goldstone, Samuel
Good, Robert Williamson, P. M.
Goodman, Abraham
Gordon, George
Gorie, James
Gough, William George.
Grady, James
Graham, Frank Gordon
Grant, William
G;raves, Walker Coleman, P. M.
Gray, Henry
Gray, Walter Scott
Green, George Sedwick
Green, Simon
Greenberg, Frank Lui
Greer, William John
Grunig, Louis Herman
Gump, Solomon
Gunzburger, Benjamin Mitchell
Gunzburger, Emil
Hale, James William
Ham, Charles Herbert
Hamilton, James Thomas, P. M.
Hamilton, Walter William
Hancock, Robert John
Hansen, Frederick Ludwig, P. M.
Hanson, John
Harris, Benjamin
Harris, Charles Sigmund
Harris, Clarence Edgar
Harris, Isaiah
Harris, Louis Lehman
Harris, Marcus
Harris, Matthew
Hath~way, Harry Lee
Hathaway, Harry Richartl
Hrchheimer, Leopold
Heins, Herman
Heller, Louis Charles

163

164

Hemphill, David Abercombie
Henderson, Hugh C.
Hendry, Andrew Murray
Hills, Reuben Walmarth
Hilp, Henry, P. M.
Hinz, August Julius Henry
Hobson, Clark
Hoffman, Abraham
Hollub, Samuel Simon
Hollzer, William
Holmes, Alfred Edward
Hughes, William George
Humphrey, George
Hunter, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Irvine, Alexander
Irvine, Nathaniel
Isaacs, Edward Samuel
Isaacs, Frank
Jackson, Charles Edward
Jacobson, Charles
James, Jefferson Gilbert
Jellinek, Charles, P . M.
Johnson, Andrew
Johnson, Christian Emanuel
Johnson, Francis Fenelon
Johnson, George Henry
Johnson, George Oliver
Johnson, Henry
Johnstone, Robert Murry
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Frank Able
Jones, Martin, P. M.
Joost, Fabian Sebastian
Juhl, Jesse Peter
Katz, Manda!
Kaplan, Bernard Michael
Kelley, Michael John
Kelly, Robert Edward
Kennedy,. Albert Warren
Kennedy, Thomas
Kent, Thaddeus Benning
Kerr, Earl
Kincaid, Isaac Philamson, P. M.
King, Charles James, P. M.
Kleinhaupt, Moses
Kluver, Henry

ROSTER.
Knighton, David William
Knudsen, Philip Julius
Knudson," lngelbright
Kock, William Lincoln
Kramer, Maurice S.
Lace, Thomas Joshua
Lachman, Gustave
Lange, Edmund William Richard
Larsen, Lars Christian
Lasky, Michael Charles
Leighton, Elon Ernscliffe
Lemaitre, Jules
Lenchner, Henry
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewis
Leonard, Edward Francis
Lerond, Theodore
Levin, Louis
Levinsky, Mark, P. M.
Leviston, Geor.g e, P. M.
Levy, Louis
Levy, Lucien
.Levy, Samuel Wolf
Lewis, John Clement
Lezinsky, George
Lincoln, Eiljah Whiting
Lipman, Abraham
Lippitt, Philip
Lippman, George
Livingston, Andrew William
Lochbaum, August Hermann
Lockwood, Thomas
Loring, George Arthur
Lowell, John Franklin
Lowenthal, Morris S.
Lucht, Conrad
Lutz, William Edward, P. M.
Lynch, Chester Thompson
Lynden, James Henry
Lynden, John Ross
Mackinnon, Thomas Alexander
Macowsky, Isaac
Macowsky, Jacob
Madden, Robert Willis
Madison, James
Maguire, Thomas Frank
Maison, Nathaly

ROSTER.

•

Makins, James Nicholas
Mann, Seth
Manner, Charles Vogt
Maris, William
Marliave, Edward Cornelle
Marshall, Eugene Lee
Marshall, Patrick Slight
Mayle, George Dennis
McClure, William
McCornick, William
McCray, Franklin Philander
McDonald, John Hugh
McDougall, Charles Campbell
McElroy, Robert
McGregor, Alexander Henderson
McJunkin, Hugh King
McKay, John Henry
MeLaren, John
McLea, Arthur
McLean, Alexander Davi<l
McLean, Malcolm
McLeod, Daniel
McLeod, John Alexander
McNealy, Mark
Mehrken, Peter John
Melliush, Herbert Stanisland
Melrose, Kenneth
Mendelson, Morris Aaron
Mentz, John Henry
Merten, }14:ax
Meyer, Martin Solomon
Michaels, Abraham
Miller, Charles August
Miller, Harry Warren
Miller, John Fred
Miller, John Rudolph
Monasch, David
Monroe, Charles Adams
Moore, Thomas
Morehouse, Chris Columbus
Morris, Edward Hart
Morrow, Almond Raleigh, P. M.
Morehead, John White
·
Mouser, Silas Mercer
Mowbray, Robert Henry
Muirhea,d, Thomas

Mullen, Edwin Thomas
Mundt, Francis Augustus
Munroe, Thomas William
Murray, Robert Henderson
Nansen, Peter Nielsen
Nash, William Joseph
Nathan, Bernard
Nelson, John Loining
Nevin, John Henry
Newbauer, Herman Wolf
Nicol, Alex!lnder
Nicol, William
Nield, John Detlifson
Nodder, William John
Noonan, Lawrence Edward
Norden, August
Obe'rfeld, Charles, Jr.
Obermeyer, Tons Frederi~k A.
Odgers, William Henry
Offer, Charles
Ormsby, George Oliver
Pague, Frank Culver
Parle, Michael Charles
Parsons, Charles Bird
Pearce, William David
Peiser, Solomon (1)
Peiser, Solomon (2)
Penhallow DeBlois Pearce
Penlington, George, P. M.
Penlington, Thomas, P. M.
Perine, George Mairs, P. M.
Perry, Victor Elmo
Peterson, John Cigord
Peterson, Julius Caesar
Phillips, Louis Albert
Pidwe}l, Cyril Trevosso
Pippey, Robert Norman
Plato, George Jacob
Pomin, George Joachin
Posner, Alva Niax
Posner, Max
Price, Ephraim William
Qualman, Frederick Henry
Quinlin, William Giles
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry
Rae, William

165

166
Reeves, Sydney Richard
Reid, .John
Reiter, Victor Matthew
Reppey, James Washington, P . M.
• Richards, Charles West
Rink, Louis
Robbins, Frederick Averill
Roberts, August Henry
Roberts, Thomas
Rosenblatt, Arthur Stern
Rosenblatt, Irving Stern
Rosenthal, Maurice
·
Ross, David Adam
Roth, Herman
Sachs, Edgar David
Samuels, David
Samuels, Jacob
Sanderson, James .Joseph
Sargent, William
Scheeline, Edwin
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmit, Henry
Schneider, .Joseph
Schoenberg, Henry
Schoenfeld, Alexander
Schutte, .John Henry
Schwartze, Karl Gustav
Schwerin, Edward
Schwormstede, Diedrick Wilhelm
Scott, Albert Woodburn
Searey, .John .Joseph
Seller, Sanford Elkan
Sewell, Amos Fuller
Sharp, William .John
Shaw, Henry
Shaw, Lionel Solomon
Sheideman, Bahr
Simon, Joseph
Simpson, Frederick Ernest H.
Slack, Ernest Simpson
Smallbones, .James
Smith, Louis John .
Smith, William Isaac
Speier, Bernard
Speier, Henry
Speier, L eon

·ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Speyer, Walter Morris
Spiro, Michael
Springer, Elias
Sproston, Frank
Stackpole, Frank Harvey
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
Stark, William Alexander
Stern, Moses Milo
Stevenson, Thomas
Stich, Benjamin Mitchell
Stidger, Oliver Perry
Stiver, Arthur Gus
Stratton, Wallace Clinton
Sussman, Samuel
Sykes, Thomas Rutledge
Taussig, Hugo Alois
Taussig, Rudolph .Julius
Tedlie, .James Hamilton
Terry, .John Colman
Terry, .Joseph Tripp
Thayer, Charles Clayborn
Thom, Alexander, P. M.
Thompson, Edward Mealing
'l'hompson, George Forbes
Thompson, Henry
Foelken, Herman
Toplitz, Robert Louis
Troppmann, Charles Martin
Trotter, .John Stewart
Tschauner, Charles Lewis
'ruckey, Bertram
Tuckey, Harry William
Tu·rpin, Anderw Walker, P. M.
Turpin, Frederick Light
Tuttle, .John
Urquhart, John Ferguson
Vagts, .John David
Van Aredale, .John Rutherford
Von Werthron, .Joseph
Wagner, Theodore
Wallace, .John William
Walkington, .John Henry
Walter, Herbert David
Waukowski, William
Ward, William Braddon
Warnock, William Henry

Watterson, George Thompson
Waugh, Samuel James
Weil, Alexander William
Weil, Moise
Weisel, -Charles
Weiss Philip
W ertsch, Herman
West, Ernest Leonard
White, Robert Horace

161

Whitten, .James
Williams, Daniel A.
Williams, John W.
Wilson, Frederick Green
Woerner, Frederick William
Wolf, Emanuel Myron
Wood, Louis
Young, Arthur Lansing
Zemausky, Samuel, P. M.
--490

CROCKETT LODGE, No. 139.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

•

•

OFFICERS:
John Pt.arce Court, Master,
Henry Wm. Maass, Sen. Deacon,
Conrad Teigeler, Junior Deacon,
Albert Percy Heise, Sen. Warden,
Jae. 0. L. Brunswig, Jun. Warden, Henry Tobias Grieb, Marshal,
W. Marcus Glindemann, Treasurer, George Henry Moulton, Steward,
Richard H. McPherson, Secretary, J . Luder W. Cattermole, Steward,
Carsten Hildebrandt, Tyler.
Adamsen, David
Adolphson, Gustav Adolph
Alpers, Claus
Andersen, Martin
Anderson, Aren
Anderson, Charles Oscar
Auftndsen, Bernhart
Atthowe, William Charles
Baetze, John P eter
Baker, Robert Thomas
Barthold, Albert Theodore
Bartlett, Edward Phelps
Barton, Robert George
Beach, Harry
Beach, Marcus Hicks
Bechtel, George William
Becker, Adolph Cornelius
Benelect, Emil
Bengtson, Sven
Berendes, Carl .Joseph
Bitzer, Jerome E.

MEill..BERS:
Blaine, Robert .James
Blumenthal, Albert
Boesen, Hans Christian B.
Bollen, .James Walter
Borek, Leopold .Julius
Bowdich, Richard William
Brady," Thomas Washington
Brandemann, Carsten Ott o
Brasch, Samuel Lewis
Brasting, Constantine W.
Braun, George
Broman, Albert
Brophy, .James William
Brugge, Edward Gustav
Brunswig, James Oscar Ludwig
Bruse, Bernard Frederick
Brutt, .John Christian
Burkhardt, Edward George A.
Burnett, Richard James
Burnham, George Ellsworth
Butt, Peter William '

168
Buttner, Frederick Harrold
Cahen, Solomon
Caley, John
Cameron, Howard McDougall
Cattermole, Charles Henry
Cattermole, John Luder W.
Cellarius, Charles, P. M.
Cellarius, Frederick August
Chambers, George William
Chase, Harry Fitzwilliam, P. M.
Christiansen, Jacob
Ciprico, Edmund Samuel, P. M.
Clute, Alva Baker
Compo, George Lafayette
Connelly, James Anthony
Conroy, George Stephen
Corder, William Arthur
Corkill, Joseph Albert
Cosgrove, John Francis
Court, John Pearce
Cox, Richard
Crease, Frank Hazen
Dallamore, George Charles
Dennis, Robert Walter
Dhelig, Alfred John
Diercks, Hermann
Dippel, Henry
Dunn, James Henry
Eide, Charles August
Ethier, Louis Napoleon
Evans, David John
Faber, Johan Frederick
Fee, Harry Ring
Feldermann, John Diedrich
Fick, Nicholas
Fisher, Charles Morris
Flathmann, Claus
Flathmann, J. H. Martin
Flathmann, William Claus
Fluegel, Emil F. Christian
Frahm, George Edwin
Frank, Arthur Henry
Frankenberg, Nathan
Frisken, James
Fry, Thomas
Furey, Walls McClure

ROS'rER.·
Gardiner, Arthur McKenzie
Geauque, George Wash., P. M.
Glindemann, William Markus
Goldsmith, Albert Simon
Gould, Edwin Carter
Grieb, Henry Tobias
Grant, John
Griswold, William Henry
Gullixson, Emil Sophus
Hagerup, Charles S. C. A.
Hamilton, Frank Thomas
Hanselman, Andrew
Hansen, Claus Christian
Hansen, Felix Amandus D.
Hanson, Per Alfred
Harder, Peter
Hart, George Edward
Hayes, Henry Lawrence
Heidenreich, Rudolph C. M.
Heins, Adolph Friederich
Heise, Albert Percy
Heise, John Diedrich
Herbst, Charles Lincoln
Hilderbrandt, Carsten, P. M.
Hill, Thomas
Hoadley, Milo
Hofiich, Max
Hofman, Elias
Hofman, Isaac L.
Hohmann, August Henry
Holloway, Charles Marion
Holmes, Joseph Earl
Holton, Charles Roscoe
Rorstmeyer, Frederick
Huber, Adolph
Huber, Hermann
Hughes, David
Hughes, John Hugh
Humbert, William Edward
Hunt, Charles Willia.m
Hunt, John Edward
Ingram, Robert
Jackson, Charles
Jacobsen, Halvor Julius T.
Jessen, Niels
Johnson, Axel Fridolf

ROSTER.

•

•

Johnson, Frederick
Moffat, James
Johnson, William Orville
Mohr, Ernest August
Jones, Edward N.
Moore, George Alexander
Jungblut, Otto August
Morris, George Washington
Kahn, William, P. M.
Moulton, George Henry
Keck, Frederick Charles
Muller, Heinrich
Keen, William Arthur
Muller, Peter Henry
Kirkwood, Alexander Macfarlane
Murken, Albert Henry
Knerr Claire Frank
Murray, Duncan Stuart
Knust, Henry
Nachbar, Frederick William
Koeberer, Theophilus Carl
Nelson, Evald
Laughton, James
Newell, James Thomas
Larrison, Seymour
Newhoff, Harry, P. M.
Leary, Thomas Cox
Nichols, Thomas Henry
Lehrke, Albert Wendell
Nicolaysen, Frank
Lehrke, Gustav Frederick
Norby, John A.
Leonard, Edward Joseph
North, John Gunder
Lester, Henry Charles
Oberfeld, Charles
Lewin, Peter
O'Brien, William Thomas
Lewis, John Walter
Olsen, Lars Emil
Lippert, Leonard B.
Olsen, Martin Christian
Llewellyn, Reece
Olsen, Olaf
Lloyd, Hugh John
Palmer, Albert
Loewe, William George
Palmer, Edw11-rd
Lowe, John Hall
Parker, Thomas Beede
Lutz, William Henry
Partridge, Clifton Clark
Maass, Henry William
Patterson, John Charles
Mackillop, Archibald
Pattison, George
Mansie, William
Paulsen, Oscar Francis
McBirney, Hugh
Paulsen, Reinhold Johan
McCann, Richard
Pein, George Heinrich
McCorkell, James Alexander
Pein, John Henry
McCh1skey, John
Perle, Charles W. Frederick
McCracken, Arthur
Perle, Johan Friedrich
McFarlan, Frederick K. Perry
Peters, John
McKarley, Edward
Petersen, Christian Herman F.
McKay, Alexander
Petersen, Hans Peter
McLaughlin, Armour
Peterson, Charles
McPherson, Richard Hassard
Peterson, Edward Peter
Mehrtens, Richard
Peterson, Gustav
Meinhard, Theo, Henry Jacob Louis Peterson, Henry Clarence
Mengel, Otto Henry
Peyser, Harry Michael
Mergen, Mathew Bernard
Phipps, Charles
Metzler, Hermann
Picard, Charles
Meyers, Robert Charles, P. M.
Plagemann, Frederick Peter
Miller, Freduic.k Hermann Carl
Porter, William

169

170

Pramme, Henry, Jr.
Price, Evan John
Preston, Walton
Rackerby, John James
Rasmussen, Hans Lauston
Rathjens, Peter Ferdinand
Read, George
Rebmann, Charles William
. Richardson, Nicholas Joseph
Righetti, Henry A.
Rithmoeller, Henry
Roberts, Joshua Benjamin, P. M.
Robinson, Henry Goland
Roeder, William Frederick
Roesch, Louis
Ross, Harry Bellsland
Rowlands, Thomas, P. M.
Reuben, John Bernard
Sachau, August Henry Theodore
Salter, Alson Crawford
Salter, Frederick Whitcomb
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmid, John
·Schmidt, Herman Christian
Schmidt, John Hinrich
Schmidt, Louis
Schomer, George
Schomer, Henry
Schottler, Hermann
Schulz, George Edward Theodore
Schwab, Henry Frederick
Schwarz, Gustav ·
Seaman, George Walter
Segesser, John Ubrich
Shaw, William Hermann
Sheffer, Clarence Edmund
Simon, Philip
Soomann, Johan Joachim T.
Spencer, Gardner Alex. Brody
Stager, William Ernest
Stange, John Ernest William
Stanle, Frederic~ Henry
Stemley, Charles
Stanton, Lewis Edgar

ROSTER.
Stephens, Luther Cox
Stevens, Bernard Archibald
Stradling, Lafayette Ferdinand
Strycker, Charles
Stussy, Henry David
Suttman, Frederick Parker
Swanson, John Paulin
Taaffe, Christian Frederick B.
Teigeler, Conrad
Ten Winkel, Frank William
Thierbach, Charles Frederick
Thierbach, Louis Michael
Thomas, Bertrand McNulty
Thomas, Robert Humphreys
Thornley, William Henry
Tilden, Heber Nutter, P. M.
Trask, Joseph Clement
Twomey, James
Ungermann, Gustav John C.
Vock, Simon
Volkmann, Alexander William
Vollstadt, Frederick
Yonder, Lieth Harold Otto
Voss, Harry David
Waldron, Jerome Bonaparte
Wambach, George
Ward, James William
Watson, Ambrose Alexander
Watts, Herbert Charles
Webber, Charles
Weber, Richard Franklin
Weiss, Frank John
Weiss, Robert Nathaniel
White, Edward Harris
Wieneke, Robert
Wilcox, Alfred Ernest
Wolf, Reuben Augustus
Wolters, John Bernard
Wolters, John Diedrich
Wreden, Henry
Young, Royal Burr
Zapf, Charles Frederick
Zaun, Henry
Zimmerman, Louis Michael -314

•

ROSTER.

CURTIS LODGE, No.

171
140.

Cloverdale, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

r

MEMBERS:

•

Allman, Joseph
Allegrinni, Guilo
Baer, George Baker, P. M.
Brush, William Thomas
Brush, Fred Walker
Caldwell, John William
Caldwell, William Beatty
Cauch, Frank R.
Coffey, Clayton T.
Cooley, Edward Arthur, P. M.
Coe, George Washington
Dixon, Eugene Frank
Doty, William Edward
Domine, Henry Fred
Field, John
.
Gillespie, William Edward
Goetzelman, John, P. M.
Green, Robert F.
Guldager, George Madison
Hagmayer, Guadaloupe
Hall, John Henry
Harris, Charliis William
Hollopeter, Ellis Edward

Hulbert, Robert H.
Humbert, Charles Emilie, P. M.
Kleiser, James A., P. M.
Kleiser, George W.
Kleiser, James Albert
Kleiser, Joseph Henry
Kussic, George
Lamb, Francis Mari(}n
Martin, Carl Henry
Marinkovitch, Antone
Merritt, Frank K.
Moore, Harley LaVerne
Pinschower, Simon
Reed, Jeremiah
Sedgley, Charles Loring
Shelford, Peter L.
'l'hompeon, Ernest B., P. M.
Thomas, Richard H.
Trim, Robert
Ward, James Abram
Warren, George F.
Williams, Oliver Clayton
Wi~son, Thomas Beggs
--46

GRAFTON LODGE, No. 141.
Grafton, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Ful' Moon.
OFFICERS:
Albert Kimerer, Master,
Quintis V. Eakle, Sen. Warden,
Carl Kimerer, Junior Warden,
Lloyd Nelson Tabler, Treasurer,
Thomas Harry Dixon, Secretary.

li2

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Leathers, Robert Scott H., P . M.
Bell, William S.
Cope, Clarence
McCune, Francis Eugene
Crane, Donald
McCli:ntock, James H.
Dixon, Thomas Harry, P. M.
McClintock, William Wirt
Eakle, Quintus Vernile
McGrath, U. Webster
Ely, Isaac Jefferson, P. M.
McGarth, Carroll S.
Fritz, Leonard, P. M.
McLane, William
Goettsch, Peter, P. M.
Peart, Barkly Gilbert, P. M.
Huber, John Boardman
Peart, George Clark, P. M.
Kier, Henry McBride
Peart, Homer Lester, P. M.
Kimerer, Albertis
Showball, Henry Havelock
Kimerer, Carl
Tabler, Lloyd Nelson
.25'
Leathers, John Abner

•

. ROSTER.
J ongeneel, Martin
Kercheval, Howard Douglas, P. M.
Kesner, Wilfred Clark
King, Azariah Judson
Lindsay, William Kincade
Laborde, John Sylvester
Martin, Abel Heald
McCullough, George
McQueen, Niel Campbell
Nelson, Jacob
Nichols, Will Harrison
Osborn, David Horace
Phillips, Abner Coombs
Radgesky, Louis David
Reynolds Alfred Tho. Jam€s, P. M.

Roberts,. Edward
Runyon, Harry Armstead
Runyon, Armstead
Schnabel, Carl Kenneth
Scriber, George Washington
Sinith, Joseph, T. c.,
Smith, William James, P. M.
Stephenson, Oscar
Thisby, George
Thisby, Robert Francis
Thisby, Leonard Charles
Thisby, William John
Van Lobensels Mauritz C'. A.
Wehr, William Henry
-59

FRANKLIN LODGE, No. 143.
Courtland, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Miles Robert Dean, Master,
Geo. Albert Greene, Sen. Deacon,
Peter Jacob Huth, Sen. Warden,
Wm. K. Lindsay, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Wm. Bell, Jun. Warden,
Joseph Henry Hyde, Marshal,
Henry Franklin Isham, Treasurer, Boyd Beckman Green, Steward,
Charles Elmer Bunnell, Secretary,
Russell Julian Coggshall, Steward,.
Abner Coombs Phillips, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arrasmith, Vernon
Green, ffimer
Bauer, Charles Emilie
Green, Beckman Boyd
Bell, William 'fhomas
Greene, George Albert
Billups, Lewis Cass
Hechtman, Albert John
Bishop, Nathan Elmer
Hinsdale, Lester Jesse
Bunnell, Charles Ernest, P. M.
Hinsdale, Seymour Sidney
Hollister, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Cornish, George Franklin
Coggshall, Russel Julian
Huth, Peter Jacob
Dean, Thomas Webster, P. M.
Hutton, William Mathew
Hyde, Joseph Henry, P . M.
Dean, William Henry
Ivey, Harrison Span, P. M.
Dean, Miles Robert
Isham, Henry Franklin
Deback, John August
Ellis, Henry Herbert M.
Isham, Murray Leo
Fallman, Louis Helmer
Johnston, William Alex., P. M.
Jacobs, Francis Henry
Green, Peter B., P. M.

ORIEXTAL LODGE, No. 144.
San Fra:icisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Oscar Penn Hicks, Master,
Frank C. Martin, Sen. Deacon,
Robert Ruddy Moody, Sen. Warden, Herbert M. Jeffreys, Jun. Deacon,
Armand E. Briggs, Jun. Warden,
Olin Lamar Berry, Marshal,
Geo. Howard Thompson, Treasurer, William Silas Hamilton Steward
Adolphus Skinner Hubbard, See., Samuel Roy. Elliot, Ste~ard,
'
Samuel James Lee, Chaplain
Elmar Duncan Roach, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alberti, George Frederick
Alden, Bertram Francis
Anderson, Alited Eric
Angus, James Stewart
Ashley, Julian Woods
Baker, George Washington
Balcom, Wells Estee
Baldwin, Alfred Wal ton
Baldwin, George Porter
Barry, Edward
Bassett, Charles Follen
Bauer, Hamilton. A very
Beal, John Frederick Robert
Beck, Francis Edwin

173

Beede, David Harris
Belfrage, William Ferdinand
Bell, John, P. M.
Berry, Olin Lamar
Boldemami, Adolph Charles
Boldemann, Oscar
Bone, Charles, P. M.
Bourke, James Edward
Bourke, William Henry
Bonsfield, Frederick Henry
Bowes, Edward Chipman
Boyd, David Wilson
Boyd, Samuel Alexander
Boye, Otto Henry

174

ROSTER.

Boyes, James
Boyes, Robert
Branch, Royal Daniel
Brickell, John Clinton
Briggs, Armand Eugene
Brisco, William Mounsey
Brown, Carl Grover
Brown, Grafton Tyler
Buckley, John Paul
Buhlinger, William Frederick
Burgren, Albert William
Buhrmeister, Henry Franklin
Burnett, George Watson
Burr, Percy Lott
Campbell, Walter Chauncey
Campbell, Wm. Robert Lee, P. M.
Carlson, Charles Joseph
Castle, Stephen
Chapman, William Henry
Chatfield, George Frederick
Chipperfield, Alfred Edward
Clark, Benjamin
Clute, John Foster
Cofran, John William Gunnison
Conner, William Edward
Cook, Jay Bruce
Craig, William Berry
Crooks, George Bates
Crowell, Frederick William
Crowell, Walter Harding
Crowley, Timothy Joseph, P. M.
Cubery, William McBurney
Cutten, Edward Logan
Daniel, John
Danly, Marion Price
Davis, Norris King
Davidson, Arthur Edwin
Davies, Llewellyn
deBretteville, Pierre Alex. LeN.
Deichmiller, Conrad
Dettmann, Fritz, Ludwig
Diggs, Henry William
Dobie, Clarence Walker, P. M.
Dolliver, John Walter
Dornin, Nelson Edgar
Douglas, Ernest Campbell

Driffield, Vero Carns
Dubois, Henry Poorman
Duke, Robert Douglas
Dunckel, Ira Titus Chapin
Dtirbrow, Ross Lewis
Dyer, Walter John
Eagleson, John Geddes
Eichorn, Hilmar August
Elfendahl, Victor Hugo
Ellinghouse, Oscar
Elliott, Samuel Roy
Ellis, Henry Cromwell
Ellis, Henry Hiram
Erlin, John Theodore
Estes, Herbert McKenzie
Fishbeck, Louis
Fitzhugh, William McPherson
Foster, Arthur William
Foster, Lyman Dickerman
Fowler, Thaddeus William
France, Robert Lee
Frank, Henry William
Fuller, William Henry
Gale, Herbert Alonzo
Gebhardt, Charles George
Gerhardt, Peter Clarence
Gibbons, Lewis Alberto
Gibson, Owen Lockhart
Gibson, Walter D. Kirkaldy
Gilchrist, William, P. M.
Gillespie, Albert Edward
Goedje, Harry August
Goodwin, James Albert
Gordon, James Edward
Graham, Harry Irvine
Grant, Thomas Chamberlin
Grauerholz, Henry John
Gray, John Hatfield, P. M.
Green, Adam TreadwEll
Gregory, Edward
. Habenicht, Grnrge Nichols
Habrnfoht, Rudolph
Hamilton, William Silas
Hammond, John Hays
Eanna, George Baum
Hardie, Frank Diedrich

ROSTER.
Harrison, William Greer
Hathaway, Charles Frederick
Hawkins, James Shook
Hawks, James Lawrence, P. M.
Hedger, Leslie Arthur
Hendry, George William
Henshall, Richard Percy
Heuer, William Henry
Hicks, Oscar Penn
Hilbert, Chr\stian Henry
Hobro, William Dovey
Hodge, Robert, P. M.
Holcombe, Royal Arthur
Hooper, George Warren
Hopkins, Timothy
Hotaling, Richard M.
Houghton, Edward Payson
Hovey, Richard Hoffman
Howard, Oliver Marshall
Howell, John Short
Hubbard, Adolphus Skinner
Hughes, Frederitlk Summerfield
Huie, Edward Mercer
Huie, Wm. Henry Thompson
Hume, Herbert
Hume, John Scotchler
Hume, Joseph Wadhams
Hume, Robert Deniston
Hunkin, Samuel Johns
Hunter, john Valpey
Husing, John Henry William
Hutchinson, Ely Israel, P. M.
Hyde, Richard Etting
Ils, John George
Imhof, Henry Francis
Jackson, Alden W.
J&eobsen, Henry
Jaegeling, Julius Philip
Jeffreys, Herbert Morgan
Jennings, Edward B.
Jewell, Richard Cornelius, P. M.
,Johnson, Roger
Johnston, Samuel Perry
Jost, Charles, Sr.
Jost, George Willis
Jost, Joseph

175

Jost, William Rheinhard, P. M.
Josselyn, Charles
Keith, Herbert Bayly
Kibbler, William Thomas
Kip, James
Klein, Joseph
Kleinhans Albert
Knight, Charles Edwin
Knox, Newton Booth
Koenig, Edward George
Labatt, Charles Bagot
Ladd, Frank Bacon, P. M.
Lake, George Bradbury
Landers, William John, P. M.
Lang, Albert George
·Lawton, George .Ernest
Lee, Samuel James
· Levensaler, James Adams
Lillard, Markwell
Lindsay, Matthew John
Lloyd, Fred Brochwel
Lloyd, Reuben Hedley, P. M.
Lotz, Augustus
Lundquist, Edward Charles, P. M.
Mackenzie, Charles• Alex.
MacMullen, James
Mann, Clarence Martin
Marcus, Morris
Martin, Frank Chapman
Mathews, Henry Edward
Matheson, Kenneth
Mauzy, Byron
McCarthy, William G.
McCutchen, Edward Johnson
McGinnes, Robert Tooms
McKenzie, Elmer Ellsworth
McLaughlin, William Francis
McPherson, Edward Butler
Merry, William Laurence
M~tzner, Charles Francis
Milestone, William Hebden
Milligan, Robert
Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Montague, Wilfred Weed
Moody, Robert Roddy
Morffew, Thomas

176
Morgan, Frederick Charles
Morris, Daniel Edward
Morrow, Robert Head
Morrow, William W.
Morton, Raymond Albert
Muller, Henry Gustave
Murphy, Samuel Greene
Myrick, Milton Hills, P. M.
Nauman, Clarence Charles
Nauman, Howard Arthur
Nelson, Arthur Selby
Newhall, Edwin White, P. M.
Newhall, William Mayo
Nichols. Thomas Henry
Nuttall, John Robert Kennedy
Onyon, Richard Toppin
Parrish, Ellis Howard
Parsons, James Allen
Partridge, Edward Briggs
Partridge, Edward Briggs, Jr.
Partridge, John
Peel, Jonathan Morffew
Pennell, Henry Edward, P. M.
Pennell, Thomas Mead
Perry, John Melvin
Pierson, Fred Howard
Pike, Charles William
Pinkstone, Arthur John
Pitchford, John Benjamin
Plattner, Eugene Lester
Poheim, Joseph Francis
Poindexter, Theodore
Polk, James Knox
Pool, William Worth
Pryor, Alfred Edmund
Puckhaber, Charles Richard
Radke, August Hermann
Radke, Richard Lawrence
Rail, Eugene Benton
Ralston, William Chapman
Randall, Clement
Randall, Samuel Bunker
Randall, William Morse
Reddington, Alfred Poett
Reid, James Steele
Remensperger, William Alex.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Roberts, Alfreq Edward
Robinson, Cornelius Preston, P. M~
Robinson, Leighton Charles Powell
Roebke, Fred Carl, Jr.
Rosie, Walter
Ross, Thomas Paterson
Roach, Elmer Duncan
Rowell, Leonard Gifford
Scherr, John Frederick
Schmidt, Fredrrick
Schmitt, Joseph William
Schneider, Edward William
Schoning, Otto Alvin
Sc ho hay, Albert John
Scott, Ebenezer
Seelig, George
Selfridge, James Russell
Seyler, Charles, Jr.
Siebe, George Henry
Simpson, Waldie James
Sloan, Clarence Barstow
Sloane, Charles Francis
Smith, Edward Bruce
Smith, Harry Burt, Jr.
Smith, Henry Julian
Smith, Henry Sydney
Smith, Isaac Lincoln
Smith, James Coleman
Smith, Lewis Warren
Somers, Howard
Spader, Charles Toms
Sprague, Peter Tiburco
Spreckels, John Diedrich
Steele, Daniel Lucas
Stillman, Charles
Stoddard, Augustus Wynne
Stokes, Frederick Robert
Stoll, Albert George
Str.o h, George Noyes
Swain, Clarkson
Swan, Benjamin Ralph
Swanson, Alex.
Suydam, Charles Henry
Tallant, Frederick William
Templeman, H enry
Therkof, Gustave Henry

Thompson, George ·Howard, P. M.
Thompson, Thomas L~rkin
Thomson, Stuart Coventry
Tonningsen, John, P. :M.
Troutt, James Morris, P. M.
Van Ness, Arthur W.
Veen, Frank Joseph
Von Rhein, Frank Lincoln
Voorman, Henry Augustus
Wadsworth, John Joseph
Wallace, James . Hargraves
Ward, John Thomas
Ward, William Douglas
Warner, Charles Hutchinson
Washburne, Lynde Arthur
Watkins, Alonzo Augustus

177

Wells, Albert Ackley
Wells, Norton Chamberlin
Westde.hl, Ferdinand,P. M.
Westdahl, Ferdinand Wishy
Wetherby, Wallace Tappan
White, Charles Chesley
Wieland, Emil John
Williams, Charles
Wilson, John Charles
Win.s or, Charles Launet
Windeler, Henry Frederick
Wood, Abraham
Woolsey, Chester Howard
Wright, William Chandlt!r
Younger, William John
-335.

VITRU:VIUS LODGE, No. 145.
Bloomfield, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ira Berry Harvey, Master,
Patrick C. Jones, Sen. Warden,
Warren W. Freeman, Jun. Warden,
Melvin H. LeBaron, Treasurer,
Wm. N. Cunningham, Secretary,
Bruce Travis Cockrill, Chaplain,

Wm. Aaron Cockrill, Sen. Deacon,
Russell S. Smith, Junior Deacon,
Oscar Collister, Marshal,
Epi Morganti, Steward,
Alban David Hopkins, Steward,
0. Maximillian Lefebore, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bailey, Louis Clark
Bianchini, Augostino
Bonaiti, Achelle
8aughey, James Francis
Coporgno, Virgil
Collister, Oscar, P. M.
Collister, Santey William
Cockrill, Bruce Travis
Cockrill, William Aaron
Cornett, William H enry
Cunningham, William N assan
Dickinson, L eon
Duncan, Thomas Jefferson
12

Eastman, Gustave
FrMman, Warren W.
G,ouldager, Hans
Galehouse, Frank Clark
·Gaver,·Andrew Poe
Hakes, Dorr
Hall, William Parker
Harvey, Ira Berry
Herbert, William Henry
Hinshaw, John David, P. M.
Hopkins, Albon David
Jinkines, James Hall, P. M.
Jones, Carroll Patrick

178

ROSTER.

Jones, Walter
King, James
Kowalsky, Henry Isaac
Kowalsky, Joseph N.
Larsen, Rasmus Gergen
Laufenberg,. Michael Ney
LeBaron, Harrison Melvin, P. M.
LeBaron, Chauncey Arthur
Levens, Harry Stocking
Lefebvre, Oliver Maximillian
Linebaugh, William Abraham
Morganti Epi

R08TER.

Oliver, John Salton, P. M.
Parker, Alva
Pellascio, Miglio John
Reinoehl, Charles Henry
Robertson, John
Sartori, Ignazio
Steele, David
Steele, Thomas John
Stump, John Conrad
Stillwell, Valencourt
Williams, Charles Celey
Winn, Albert- Clark, P. M.---50.

ABELL LODGE, No. 146.
Ukiah, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Edwin Gaines Case, Master,
P. Baily Westerman, Sen. Deacon,
Charles McP. Mannon, Sen. Warden, Alfred Henry Ewert, .Jun. Deacon,
Lewis Peter Anker, Jun. Warden, Howard B. Smith, Marshal,
James Robert Mathews, Treasurer, James L. McCracken, Steward,
Bertram Leon Cleland, Secretary,
James Holiday Carothers, Steward,
George B. D. Stewart, Chaplain,
Joseph Gannette, Tyler.
MEMBF.RS·
Cleland, Bertram Leon
Abraham, Louis
Conry, Clarence- Albert
Anker, Louis Peter
Cunningham, Charles, P. M.
Anker, Niel, P. M.
Cunningham, Wm. Watkins, P. M.
Babcock, Lyman Wilbert, P. M.
Diddle, John Franklin
Baily, Washington Irving, P. M.
Dickinson, Almer Edwin
Barker, John Henry, P. M.
Donohoe, Robert Emmett
Berryhill, Joseph Tanner
Eversole, John Walter, P. M.
Bolm, George Hermansen
Fairbanks, Mandal Whipple
Bond, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Fallas, Fred LaPere
Boulon, Paul
Finley, George Columbus
Bradley, George Felix
Foree, William Henry
Branscomb, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Carothers, Thomas Langley, P. M. Frehe, Alfred Lewis
Gannett, Joseph
Carothers, James Holiday
Ganter, Clinton Everett
Case, Edwin Gains
Gowell, Charles Alfred
Cerf, Aaron
Grover, Isaac Wilson
Charlton, Thomas
Handy, Fred Clark, P. M.
Chessall, William Henry, P. M.
Handy, Percy West
Cleland, Thomas Montana, P . M.

I

•

179

Harbert, Lee L.
Orr, Samuel Murry
Held, William Daniel Louis
Paxton, Samuel Dihel
Hirsch, Benort Samuel
Pickle, George Washington
Hirsch, Maurice, P. M.
Poage, William Gustavus
Hoag, Leslie
Portemeld, William Wilson
·Hofman, Charles
Proudfoot, William
Holliday, Stonewall Jackson
Rosenberg, Samuel Louis
Hopkins, Charles Blodgei
. Roeder, Frederick Murdock
Howard, William Harper
Saunders, John Herbert
Hutchison, Robert Lee, P. ·M.
Sandman, John Jacob
Johnson, Louis
Schefer, John Henry
Kilbourne, William Vincent
Shinn, George Edgar
King, Edward Warren, P. M.
Smith, Charles Henry
Lance, Goodman Harvey
Smith, Howard B., P. M .
Langren, August
Snow, John
Layton, Frank Burton
Standley, Jeremiah M.
Mannon, James Milton, Sr., P. M.
Stout, George Washington, P. M.
Mannon, James Milton, Jr:
Stewart, ·George Duncan Bennett
Mannon, Charles McFerson
Taylor, John
Mathews, James Robert
Thatcher, Arthur James, P. M.
Matthews, Charles William
Thomas, Micajah Anderson, P. M.
Markle, Robert Bruce
Thomas, James Roberd
McCowen, George, P. M.
Thomas, William Pendleton
Mccowen, Hale, P. M.
Thomson, Harry Adelbert
McCracken, Joseph Leslie
Wagonseller, Norton
McGarvey, Robert
Walton, Benson
McMurry, John, P. M.
Westerman, Pleasant Bs.Uey
Montague, Lemuel Davis
Wheeler, Samuel
Moore, William Neet
Whitten, Carroll Henry, P. M.
Morris, Harry ·
Wills, John Perry
Wilson, Francis Marion
Moseley, Oscar John
Mulcahy, David
Yell, Archibald, P. M.
Zimmerman, William Tell
Orr, Jai:nes Henderson, Jr.
Orr, James Henry
-105.

EEL RIVER LODGE, No. 147.
Rohnemlle, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next prr.eeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
.Tohn William Dixon, Master,
John Travis, Senior Deacon,
Robert Lee Harris, Senior Warden, Alexander Masson, Junior Deacon,
Harry K. Hansell, Junior Warden, John Melvin Connick, Marshal,
Brice Hogland McNeil, Treasurer,
Sam Guthrie, Steward,
Joseph Hull, Secretary,
Wellington H. Stewart, Steward,
Walter Thomas Fisher, Chaplain,
George Wells Stone, Tyler.

180

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Harris, Robert Lee
Anderson, Martin
Hauck, Nathan
Barkdull, Joseph Carley
Helmke, Frederick Martin
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Herrick, George Arthur
Bird, James Bishop,
Hiller, Benjamin Franklin
Brewer, Charles Henry
Hiller, George
Burgh, Louis Joseph
Hµler, Philip Alex.
Bryan, William Henry, P. M.
lioward, Ja.nes Bloxum
Cady, Ernest Carlton
Hull, Joseph
Callihan, Robert
Hubbard, James Calvert
Chidester, Marion, P. M.
James, Samuel Oliver
Clover, Philip R.
Johnson, William Rufus
Corning, Smith Peabody
Kay, Fred Moses
Connick, Alex. Grant
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Connick, John Melvin, P. M.
Lamb, Alex. Abel
Crabtree, Frank
Lamb, Winfield Scott
Dale, Jeremiah
Lane, John Alex.
Dale, John
Lawson, James
Dale, Harvey, P. M.
Lorning, Ernest Ballord
Davis, Henry Delasaux
Luther, Frank William
Davis, George Oxley
Leach, Frederick Arthur
•
Delamere, Henry Sinclair, P. M.
Maxwell, James Washington
Dinsmore, Harold Adam
McCord, James Clinton
Dh;1smore, Fred Andrea
McNeil, Brice Hogland,.P. M.
Dinsmore, George Evans
Medcalf, John Edward H.
Dixon, John William
Milligan, Thomas
Doane, John William
Newall, Daniel Sheldon
Dobbyn, William Benton
North, Davis Beauregard
Duningan, William Good
Oliver, Frank Wright, P. M.
Eastman, Charles Austin, P. M.
Orcuth, Thaddeus Adams
Ellis, Clarence Eugene
Perroth, Walter Louis
Feigenbaum, Joseph
Porter, Edward David
Fisher, Walter Thomas, P. M.
Price, Benjamin Allen
Forbes, Peter
Palmer, Edwin Alex.
Frost, Charles Baker
Parkman, Clarence Edward
Frost, James Lambert
Plyneale, Dionicius
Faulkner, Eaton
Rowley, Charles A. E.
Fox, E;enry Davis
Rummels, William Edwar1l
Fulton, Warren
Ryan, John Walter, P . M.
Gillogly, Mathew Lee
Slingsby, James
Grossen, Ebbe
Slingsby,' George
Guthrie, Samuel Porter
Smith, Frederick David
Hansell, Harry Kingston F.
Starr, Chester Thompson
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Stewart, George Edwin
Hansen, John Owen
Stewart, Wellington Homer
Hansen, Daniel Webster

Stone, George Wells
Swanger, Samuel Frederick
Travis, John Armstrong
Tuttle, Frederick Ackerman
Towzey, William John
Underwood, George
Van Sickle, Thomas

181

Vancil, George Washington
Weber, Martin
Weber, Michaels Nicholas
Wood, John William
Whitney, Charles Harris
W ellock, Charles Orville
Webster, Edward Warren-104.

LASSEN LODGE, No 149.
Susanville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Gilbert Edward DeForest, Master, Fred 'k H. Shanks, Sen. Deacon,
John B. Spaulding, Sen. Warden,
John S. Borrette, Jun. Deacon,
James A. Pardee, Jun. Warden,
Joseph M. Tremain, Marshal,
Fred Hines, Treasurer,
George Elliott Wincheste:, Steward,
William Walker Sharp, Secretary, William Stone Harrison, Steward,
John Zimmerman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, Jules
Arnold, Alex. Thrall
Asher, Morris
Bangham, Eber Gaston
Bangham, Frank Henry
Bangham, Sandusky Fred
Bangham, Ross Eber
Bennett, Herbert Warren, P. M.
Blake, James Curran
Borrette, John Skedge
Branham, James, P. M.
Brockman, William, P. M.
Bunnell, Abel
Cahlan, John, P. M.
Cain, Fred A.
Campbell, John Elmer
Caswell, Preston
Caughell, Charles Francisco
Collins, Raymond Humphrey
Cramer, Charles
Cramer, Daniel
Cramer, Daniel Frederick

Davis, John Lassen
Davis, William Smith
DeForest, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
DeForest, Albert Eugene
Dodge, Edmund R.
Easton, George Breeding
Earl, William Howard
Emerson, Charles Thomas
Emerson, Charles Ed. P.M.
Enhorning, Herman Olaf
Folsom, Melville Orman
J<'ox, Albert
Fraser, William Walter
Goumaz, Philip Jacob
Gregory, A. Martin
Hall,. Wright Patrick, P. M.
Hall, William Henry, P. M.
Hall, Louis Davis
Harrison, William Stone
Hart, William Ralph, P. M.
Hines, Fred
Hunsinger, Augustus Cassius

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

182
Hurlbut, Robert Ward
Hyer, David Campbell
Johnson, William Joh~
Johnston, Frank
Kingsbury, Edward Orrin
Knoch, David,
Knoch, Isaac
Knudson, Lewis
Leavitt, Benjamin Harrison
Leonard, Jared G.
Martin, Edward Alonzo
Masten, William Thomas
Masten, John Thomas
McDow, George Nelson
McKinsey, Noble Samuel
Minckler, William David
Mosely, Albert William
Nathan, Solomon
Odett, Charles Albert
Pardee, James Augustus
Pardee, Julien Eugene, P. M.
Philbrook, Alonzo Kelley
Ramsey, Thomas Abner
Riley, John Henry

Roseberry, Thomas Alex., P. M.
Rulison, Frederick Joseph
Shanks, Frederick Hastings
Sharp, William Wal1:ter
Sifford, Alex.
Snyder, Henry
Spalding, John Bridger
Spalding, Wilbur Fisk
Streshley, Frank D.
Talbott, Basie Homer
Thibault, Lewis
Tombs, George Lincoln, P. M.
Tremain, Joseph. Mellow
Van Norden, Thomas Albert
Van Loan, Elmer
Vogt, John Henry
Vincent, William Elmer
Ward, Franklin Millard .
Williams, Joseph Billings
Winchester, George Elliott
Wilson, Jared Morgan
Wilson, Ernest Everett
Zimmerman, John William
-91.

Muller, John Baptist
Osborn, Jesse Mason
Peden, Albert Oliver
Peterson, Alvah, P. M.
Pitts, Eugene Hiram
Schroer, Frederick
Sellick, William Thomas
Simpson, John, P. M.
Simpson, George Charles
Smith, Matthew Allen
Stanley, Edward Charles
Stock, Joseph Ferdinand
Tuman, George Elmer
Tuman, Edward Whited
Tyler, Ulysses Butte
Williamson, William
Worthington, John James

Clark, Henry
Clegg, Robert
Clark, Charles Henry
Clark, Alfred Roy
Ehrlich, John
Finnell, Simpson
Griggs, Sidney Allen
Gyle, Louis Abraham
G"yle, Sylvan Herman, P. M.
.Gyle, Joseph Charles
Houseman, John Samuel
Houseman, Robert Porterfield
Lee, William
McBride, William G.
McGuinness, Thomas, P. M.
Miller, William Wallace
Montgomery, William 'L'homas
Morrisey, Thomas Francis

-47.

WOODLAND LODGE,

~'-Jo.

156.

Woodland, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MOLINO LODGE, No. 150.
Tehama, Tenama County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or n ext preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Madison Boyd, Master,
Alfred Roy Clark, Senior Deacon,
John Simpson, Senior Warden,
Fred F. Anderson, Junior Di;acon,
George G. Simpson, Jun. Warden,
Simpson Finnell, Marshal,
. Otto Edward Asman, Treasurer,
Henry Clark, Steward,
John J. Worthington, Secretary,
Neilson Carr, Steward,
Charles Henry Clark, Tyler.
Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Aitken, Robert Balentine
Anger, William Frederick
Anderson, Fred Fleming
Asman, Otto Edward
Asman, Ulrich Henry

183

MEMBERS:
Bogan, Andrew Jackson
Boyd, Samuel Madison
Bratten, John Michael
Britt, George Le Roy
Carr, Nielson
Chamberlain, Joseph

OFFICERS:
Charles E. Dingle, Senior Deacon,
John Wm. McQuaid, Junior Deacon,
H e)lry Thomas Barnes, Marshal,
Thomas Green Hughes, Steward,
Aytchmonde C. Read, Steward,
Charles J. Beckwith, Tyler.

William Morris Hyman, Master, .
Caleb R. Wilcoxon, Senior Warden,
William F. Mixon, Junior Warden,
Frederick Miller, Treasurer,
William Henry Curson, Secretary,
David Eldred Holt, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Armstrong, Bert
Ball, Byron, P. M .
Ball, Chester Alex .
Balfour, Douglas, P. M.
Bandy, James Edward
Bandy, Claude Marion ·
Barnes, Henry Thomas
Beamer, Richard H enderson
Beckwith, Charles J.
Black, William Small
Blanchard, Frank Williams
Blevins, William Joseph

)

Brown, Richard Marion
Browning, William York, P. M.
Browning, Robert Welch
Burns, Daniel Monroe, P. M.
Bush, Henry Jonathan
Charmak, Louis
Coil, Herbert Elmer
Coil, LeRoy
Craig, Wilton Porter
Craig, John Stephens
Criteser, William Thomas
Curson, Wi)liam H enry, P. M.

1S4
Cuyler, R. Winslow Sherman
Day, Russell Traver
Deaner, Samuel Christian
Dickinson, Clarence Fitzhugh
Dickey, Edward Willise
Dingle, Charles Edward
Diggs, Marshall
Dungan, Jesse Holland
Eakle, Henry Poffenberger, Jr.
Ellison, John Harrison
Everett, Louis Phillip
Fairchild, Fred Ross
Farnham, Erastus Sylvester
Ferguson, Franklin Benjamin
Freeman, John Watts
Gaddis, Edward Everett
Garoutte, Jere Monahan
Gable, Hayes Harvey, P. M.
Gibson, Thomas Ballard
Gibson, Robert James
Gill, Henry Davis
Glendinning, Edward
Gostick, Charles Edward
Griggs, Sylvester Minor
Harling, John Douglas
Hawkins, Nicholas Andrew
Hawkins, Jared Waldo
Hays, David
Hayward, Edward Babbitt
Hartsock, Herman Adam
Hilliker, Loren Warren
Howell, Marcus Worden
Holt, David Eldred
Hollingsworth, George Warren
Houston, Arthur Craig, P. M.
Houston, Edward Panamore
Houston, Harry Lyle
Hyman, . William Morris
Kauffman, Forrest Augustus
Kean, William Otho
Kincheloe, Zachariah Benson
Lasky, Israel
Langenour, William Roy, P. M.
Langenour, Charles T.
Lawhead, Hiram Davis
Leithold, John Vincent

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Lovejoy, George Ray
Malcolm, Walter Francis
Miller, Frederick
Miller, David
Miller, Hezekiah Monroe
Miller, Norman Boone
Michael, Joseph
. Michael, Morris
Mixon, William Franklin
Morris, Amie!
Morris, Ira Allen, P. M.
Montgomery, Samuel Morris
Murray, Joseph Alfred
McConnell, James Isom, P. M.
McFarland, John Carr
McQuaid, John William
Nelson, William Wirt
North, Arthur Walbridge
Owens, Ivor David
Parker, Oscar Erwin
Per.1dns, Calvin
Perry, Henry
Petersen, Wilhelm Johan
Pond, Wallace Rognetta
Porter, Harry Deloss
Rablin, William Henry
Rahm, Francis Marion
Rasmussen, Hans Jacob W.
Rasor, Ulaire
Read, Aytchmonde Clarence
Reese, Thomas Brown
Relyea, Simon Baker
Richmond, Charles Lambard
Roberts, Hampton Evans
Rosenberg, Isidor
Russell, Willie F.
Ryan, Henry Philander
Schuder, William Campbell, P. M.
Sieber, Christian Henry
Smith, Jamee Kerson; P. M.
Spaulding, Thaddeus Stephens
Stephens, Benjamin Hickman
Stressiger, Julius Theodore
Taylor, James Thomae
Taylor, Justus Hurd
Thompson, George Gilbert

Thomas, Charles Wilbur, Jr.
Thorp, Joseph Henry
Van Meter, Conrad Lucius
Ward, Moses Wylie
Whitney, George Elledge
Wilcoxon, Caleb Russell
Wilson, Preston Gillen

185

Wirth, Christian Frederick
Williams, John Calvert
Windsor, John William
Winne, William Henry
Witham, Alvin Milton
Wright, John Henry
-129.

GIBSONVILLE LODGE, No. 153.
Gibsonville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.
MEMBERS:

•

Aaronson, George Dixon
Beiler, Nicholas
Brassel, Jacob
Day, George Holland
Ermatinger, Casper
Foster, Robert
Forbes, Hector
Fraser, Philip Hector
Humphreys, Thomas, P. M.
Holtz, August, P. M.
McFarland, Abell, P. M.

Meikle, William
Owens, Owen H.
Reed, Henry Gibson
Schofie~d, Miles Edmond
Schofie~d, William Alfred
Squier, Elias Gibbs, P. M.
'l'homas, David Philip
Todd, Thomas Parker
Weil, Leopold Henry
Wiegand, John, P. M.
Waterworth, James, P. M.-22.

KEYSTONE LODGE, No.

161.

Milton, Cal.i.veras County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Chapman Shipley, Master, Horace Bell Allen, Senior Deacon,
Arthur G. Rose, Senior Warden,
J. Fred 'k Helms, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Samuel Dennis, Jun. Warden, Nills J. Wm. Jorgenson, Marshal,
Chandler Huntington, Treasurer,
Joseph J. Thompson, Steward,
Charles Wise Rhodes, Secretary,
Walter Linnes Denton, Steward,
Steven D. Hildebrand, Chaplain,
Marion Lee Hunt, Tyler.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

181:)

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 166.

MEMBERS:
Johnston, Benjamin
Jorgenson, Nills Jorgen Wm., P. M.
Klemp, Jacob
Mercer, Robert Ainsworth
Nevens, Thomas
Ortman, Herman
Peterson, Richard Lester
Persons, William Milton
Rhodes, William Henry Harrison
Rhodes, Charles Wise, P. M.
Ross, Arthur Gilbert
Shepherd, James Shields
Shipley, William Chapman, P . M.
Snow, William
Stewart, John Daniels
Stroud, Tracy
Thompson, John Joseph
Wheeler, Rees Thompson-36.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.

Allen, Horace Bell, P. M.
Baker, John Manuel, P. M.
Bisbie, Wilson Abner
Botcher, Conrad Franklin
Brooks, Walter Ellsworth
Carnduff, Frank Ford
Dees, William Ruffing
Dennis, William Samuel
Fontana, Charles Dominic
Gall, Clinton
Hendrick, Nathaniel Ward
Helms, Johann Frederick
Hildebrand, Steven Decatur, P. M.
Honey, Milton
Horne, Frank Edmond
Hunt, Marion Lee
Humphreys, Eldridge Getchel
Huntington, Chandler

HARMONY LODGE, No 164.
Sierra City, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Andrew Lavery, Master,
George Scott Black, Sen. Deacon,
Richard James, Senior Warden,
John Avignoni, Junior Deacon,
Charles Castagna, Jun. Warden,
................ , Marshal,
John Sorrocco, Treasurer,
Gustav Nelson, Steward,
William Cox, Secretary,
Levi Garfield, Steward,
Ernest Frederick Busch, Tyler.
A vignoni, John
Black, George Scott, P. M.
Busch, Ernest Frederick
Cox, William, P. M.
Castagna, Charles, P. M.
Castagnetti, Jerome
Culbertson, Claude Milnott

MEMBERS:
Garfield, Levi
James, William Matthew
James, Richard
Lavery, William Andrew, P. M.
Mooney, Isaac Thompson
Nelson, Gustav
Sorrocco, John-14.

187

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month

•

OFFICERS:
John William Cameron, Master,
John Weller Lewis, Senior Deacon,
Herman C. Gingg, Sen. Warden,
Wm. Henry Dick, Junior Deacon,
Charles A. Adams, Jun. Warden,
Henry Charles Collin~, Marshal,
Sam Houston Daniels, Treasurer,
Howard Delos Noble, Steward,
Hugh James Owen, Secretary,
William Francis Buswell, Steward,
Joseph A. Kuykendall, Chaplain,
Georg'l Washington'Perkins, Tyle·r.
MEMBERS:
Berry, DeLos Tracy
Adams, Adolph
Adams, Charles Albert
Black, James Alex.
Alexander, George Lewis
Blake, Sumner Iverson
Allen, Arthur Fuller
Bodler, Frank Frederic
Boettcher, Paul
Allen, Isaac Patten
Ammerup, Gottlieb Adolph
Bogan, William
Anderson, Reinhold Laracenius
Bohls, Henry
.Arding, Walter Arthur
Borland, James Howatt
Bothin, Julius Christopher
.Armstrong,' George Robert; P. M.
Atkins, Frank Ernest
Boutelle, William Clarence
Atkinson, Thomas Thompson, P. M. Bramsted, John Henry
Averell, Herman Ellsworth
Brann, Walter Scott
Ayers, Edward Newton
Breidenbach, Emile Henry
Bak!Jr, Francis Joseph
Bremner, George St. John
Baker, James Whitney
Bristol, Harlan Page
Ballard, Jedediah Stow
Brown, Albert Nelson
Balls, John
Brown, Henry Eastman
Bane, Charles Hamilton
Brown, James Albert
Barnhisel, Epenetus .Rodgers
Brown, Moses Pettingell
Barr, William George
Brown, Willis Merritt
Barrere, Louis
Bruce, James Henderson
Bateman, Frank Luce
Brunings, John Henry
Bates, Fr.ank Dudley
Brunt, Walter Neat, P. M.
Bauer, Charles Franklin
Bryan, Charles Henry, P. M.
Bauer, George William
Bryant, Edgar Reeve
Haxter, Charles Arthur
Buchanan, J'ames Campbell
Baxter, Hiram Dudley
Buchse, Ernest Augustus
Beatty, John
Buchingham, Aurelius E.
Beck, Reinhold
Buffington, William Horace
Belcher, William Johnson
Bull, Franklin Pettingel, P . M .
Bender, Carl Godfrey
Bundy, George
Bender, George Lee
B~sley, Frederick Henry
Benjamin, ~nk Edward
Buswell, William Francis

188
Cameron, John William
Campbell, Henry Homer
Carlson, Gustave Edwin
Carter, Stewart
Chandler, Lewis Edward
Chlopeck, Erwin Ladislaf
Christesen, Martin August C.
Clark, True Sanford
Claussenius, Maximilian
Cloak, Henry Burdell
Clover, John Alex.
Cluff, William
Coggins, Leslie Irving
Cole, Nathaniel Parker
Colestock, Thomas David
Collins, Henry Charles
Collins, William Henry
Conrad, John George, P. M.
Cook, Carroll, P. M.
Corbett, William Colver
Cory, Frank Hoyt
Covert, George Howard
Cox, Joseph George
Croal, George James
Cumba.ck, William Elbert
Cuthbert, John William
Cutter, Edward Bowie
Daniels, Sam Houston, P. M.
Davidson, John Clay
Davis, Burt Lincoln
Davis, Charles Lott
Davis, Edward Lawrence
Davis, Marks
Davis, Warren Franklin
Davis, Winfield Scott
Deering, Frank Prentiss
DeGuire, Robert Paul
Delamater, Rolla Cornelius
Delzelle, William Robert
Dick, William Henry
Dillon, Gerald Luke
Doherty, Jo.h n Charles
Dore, Benjamin
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Dorr, William Raymond
Dow, Edwin Tyson

ROSTER.
Duff, Thomas Carson
Dugan, Charles Edwin
Dunne, Joseph John
Dye, Milo Ernest
Earhart, Earl
Easton, Wendell, P. M .
Ea ton, Louis Page
Edwards, James Washington
Edwards, William
l>idenmuller, William Cooper
Emerick, Walter Archibald
English, Edward
Esser, Alex. Julius
Faulkner, Charles Pittman, P. M.
Faull, Ashley Richard
Faull, William Clark
Fennimore, Walter Dana
Ferguson, George Bonnell
Ferguson, Howard William
Ferguson, Phineas Fanning
Ferguson, William Cook
Ferullo, David
Feudner, Martin Otto
Fischer, Edward George
Fisher, William
Fitch, Luther Edward
Forbes, John Franklin
Ford, Joseph Daniels
Forry, Charles Edward
Forster, Edwin Lycurgus, P. M.
Foster, Colin Lawrence
Frazer, Thomas Jackson
Friend, Edmund
Frisbee, George Gordon
Frisbee, Jacob Lynn
Gallet, Henry Wells
Gardner, John Endicott
Garoutte, Charles Henry
Garratt, Milton Donohue
Gauthier, Eugene, Jr.
Geissler, Carl George Lewis
Gerdes, Frederick Carsten
Gerdts, John
Gingg, Emil
Gingg, Herman Charles
Gould, Charles Walter

ROSTER.
Gould, Harry Folsom
Graham, Thomas Dunnett
Greene, Charles Henry
Gregory, Edward Herbert L.
Gruenhagen, Charles Henry
Gruenhagen, Theodore Godlowe
Guest, Thomas Frederick
Guyett, Roderick George, P. M.
Hagbom, Emil Wilhelm
Hagglund, John Gustave
Hall, Frank Delmer
Hallett, Alonzo
Halsted, William Augustus
Hammond, Manton E.
Hannigan, Michael Percival
Hare, Darrell Allen, P. M.
Hart, Harrold D.
Healy, Benjamin
Hemenway, Sylvester Wash.
Hensley, Frederick Conway, P. M.
Hensley, William John
Herndon, Newton Booth
Hess, William Edward
Hill, John Ellis
Hoffman, Ramon King
Hogan, Howard Henry
Hollister, Frank E.
Hughes, Jesse Pierce
Hughes, John Calvin
Hulme, Charles Allen
Hulme, Edwin Page
Humphrey, Charles Franklin
Hunter, Frank Lee
Hunter, Lewis Clarence, P. M.
Hutchison, Benjamin Franklin
Iredale, Charles Winslow
Irvine, Leigh Hadley
Irving, Alex.
Johnson, Frank
Johnson, James Ha.Ivor
Johnson, John Charles
Jones, Albert Thomas
Jones, Arthur Owen
Jones, .A,rthur Sidney
Jones, }Villiam Ernest
Kampe, Solomon

Keene, Reginald Edwin
Kelton, Edward Ames
Kempston, Arthur
Kenyon, Curtis George, P. M.
Kern, Morris James
Kerr, Thomas Blair
Kincaid, John Evans
King, Thomas Carter
Klein, John Adolph
Knowles, Samuel Edward
Knowlton, John Sylvester
Kohn, Isaack
Koster, John Andreas
Krieger, Charles Mathew
n.uenzi, Albert Rudolph M.
Kuhls, Frederick August
Kuykendall, Joseph Arthur
Lacey, Albert Ernest
Lacey, Joseph Carlisle
Lank, Samuel James
Large, William Henry
Lask, Harry Joseph, P. M.
Laughlin, Clyde Briggs
Lawrie, John Urquhart
Lawton, Zephaniah
Leary, Daniel Florence
Legge, Robert Thomas
Leithead, Charles Ellswor.th
Lewis, John Weller
Lindsey, Edward Kimball
London, Henry
Long, George Bearley
Love, Burr
Love, James Alex.
Lowe, Edmund Ashbrook
Lucas, Walter Edward
Lumley, John
Lund, Peter Renhold
Lutkey, George
Mackie, William
Mangrum, Arthur Sherma ·1
Marks, Jesse Emanuel
Martens, Frederick Theo.
Marwedel, Charles Walter
Masterson, Joseph Alfred
McClaughry, Hull

189

190
McDonnell, Samuel Alex.
McGregor, Samuel
McKenna, .Joseph Dimond
McKeller, Norman
McLaughlin, David
McLean, Walter .Joseph .
McMullin, Samuel
McNair, William Wilson, P. M.
Mehrtens, .John Henry
Merrill, .Jay Harrold
Miall, Cuthbert Erskine M.
Miles, William Emmert
Miller, Alex. Charles
Mille, Warren Fountain
Minor, Theo. Henry
M:ineon, Robert Kemp
Mix, Lee Williamson
Moncievaie, Charles
Moraghan, .Tohn Owen
Morgan, Charles Lewis
Morrison, .John Chambers
Moseley, Andrew Simpson
Murch, Louis Augustine, P. M.
Murdock, George Hamilton
Naunton, George
Nichole, .Jamee Francie
Nicoll, Wallace Clifton
Noble, Howard Delos
Nutter, Eugene Colby
Osborn, Lamartine
Overgaard, Soren Knudsen
Overton, Charles Parshall, P. M.
Overton, Victor Grant
Owen, Edgar Hugh
Owen, Hugh .Jamee, P . M .
Owen, Melville Griffith
Parish, Mark
Parker, Edwin· Everett
Parnell, William .Russell
Parsons, Edward Darioue
Pattereo_n, Robert Hamilton
Pease, Charles .Julius
Pedlar, William .James
Percy, Earl Newman
Perkins, George Washington .
Perkins, Samuel Henry, P. M.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Perkins, Willis Thomas
Perry, Frederic .Tewell
Pippy, George Henry
Plughoff, Albert David
Polastri, Richard Stephen
Porcher, .John
Postiglione, Guieeppi Maria
Powers, Aaron Hubbard
Purrington, Clarence Woodford
Quevedo, Francisco
Quigley, George Frederick
Ralph, .James Davison
Ralston, Henry .James
Ramacciotti, Hugo Prancis
Raubinger, William .John
Reardon, Charles Fairfax
Rednall, William Walter
Reichling, Albert Henry
Rice, Richard .James
Richards, .Tames Symmes
Rietzke, Gustave Charles
Sand, .Joseph Emil
Sanford, Wimburn Laurie·
Scheerer, .Joseph
Schetzel, Adolph Georg
Schmidt, Edwin Valentine
Schmidt, Henry Claus
Scott, George
Scott, Horace Vanansdol
Scull, Charles
Seybolt, Frederick Lewis
Shainwald, Herman
Sharp, William Enfield
Shartzer, Thomas Farrington
Shaw, Butler Emerson
Shaw, David Kerr
Shaw, Herbert Goss
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Sims, Richard Maury
Smith, Charles Robert
S~ith, Haldor
Smith, .John Menzies, P. M.
Sparrowe, Thomas William
Specht, Charles
Spencer, Franklin Morse
Staley, Robert 'l'ilghman

Stephens, .James Alex.
Stites, George Reid
Stockfieth, .John
Stofen, ·. rohn .Jacob, P. M.
Stowell, Fred Willis
Strachan, .John Ernest
Strader, .Tohn E.
Stratford, Harry .Jamee
Stromberg, Bernard Frithoff
Stroud, .John Rodgers
Stuart, Wil}iam Elder
Sturken, Fabian Henry
Sumner, Frank William
Suydam, .Tames Hobart
Taber, Charles Wesley
Tait, William Cove
Taylor, George McClellan
Taylor, Henry
Terry, Wallace Irving
Tibbitts, Francis Albert
Tiffany, William Zobel
Titus, Frank H.
Tolman, Rufus .Jenkins
Triest, Bernhard
Trittenbaeh, Emil
Umbsen, Gustave Henry
Vail, Aiken Hiller
Van Schaick, Frank Chester
Veeder, Herman Greig
Veeder, Howard Potter
Von Bonin, Carl
Von Hartwig, Carl

191

Von Wefeleburg, Alex. B., P. M.
Walker, Thomae Dawson
Wallace, .James Sanderson
Walters, Edward Charles
Ward, Charles Herbert
Webster, W_a lter Byron
Welch, Willard Choate
Wenzelburger, Chae. Wm. Augustus
W enzelburger, Emil
Werner, Carl
Westphal, Christian Henry
Westphal, Edward William
Westphal, Henry William
Westphal, Otto Frank, P. M.
Wetmore, .John Griffith
Whirlow, Herman Francis
White, Majer .John
Whitelaw, Henry William
Wieeenhaven, Albert William
Williams, Albert William
Wilson, Charles Harold
Wilson, Thomas Chamberlain
Wolfe, Clarence Navarre
Wood, Charles Michael
Wood, William .Joseph
Woode, Henry Frank
Woodward, Gideon Paschall
Wynn, .Tohn Edward
Young, Clarence Eaton
Zett, George .John
Zipf, Albert Ferdinand
-405.

ALAMEDA LODGE, No. 167.
Centreville, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday ·of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles Evans, Master,
Chas. Allen Love, Sen. Deacon,
Abbott Satterthwait, Sen. Warden, Phillip Austin Ellis, .Tun. Deacon,
Christian Runckel, .Tun. Warden,
Farley B. Granger, Marshal,
Peter Christian Hansen, 1reasurer, Harry Beck Green, Steward,
Arthur T. Biddle, Secretary,
Ernest Lang, Steward,
Albert Norris, Chaplain,
Ozias B. Simpson, Tyler.

192

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Helling, Frederick Phillip
Helling, George Peter
Higley, Seward Oliver
Homer, Charles Frederick
Hudson, George Henry
Huxley, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Ismert, Edwin Julias
Jung, William
Jackson, Henry William
Jacobus, Julian Edgar
Kelley, David Chalfant
Kirk, William Bruff ·
Lang, Ernest George
Larkin, Amos Stephen
Lebrecht, Adolph
Lowrie, John Charles Frederick
Love, Charles Allen
May, Henry
McDougall, James
McLeod, James M.
McKeown, James
McKenna, Fergus
Morrison, Perry
Mortimer, Frank
Mowry, Joseph Cheney
Nicholson, John Alex.
Norris, Albert, P. M.
Overacker, Charles Bernard
Overacker, Howard, Sr.
Patterson, Henry Hawley
Plourde, Prosper
Ralph, Louis Vernett
Rigsby, John Willia.m
Runckel, Christian
Salz, Clarenc.e F erdinand
Salz, Sigmund
Satterthwait, Abbott
Silva, Manuel Fra ncisco
Simpson, Ozias Buddington
Smith, Walter Roderick
Southwick, Oliver Lyman, P. M.
Spencer, James Albert
Stanley, James
Symon, James Charles
T errill, John Byron, P. M.

Anderson, Martin Peter
Baker, Ellis William
Barry, William
Biddle, Arthur Theo.
Blacow, John Robert
Blacow, Richard Dearing
Blair, Thomas Henry
Brewer, James Morris
Brisacker, Leo
Brown, Barton Alva
Brown, Samuel Franklin
Burt, James Frederick
Christiansen, Andrew .
Corkefan, Charles Parson
Cushing, John Henry
Cushman, Douglas
Colby, Herbert Eugene
Crosby, Henry
Crowell,. Herman, P. M .
Davis, Richard Augustus
Dixon, Mathew William
Durham, Judge Haley
Drummond, George Mowbray
Ehman, Solomon
Ehman, Alfred
Ellis, Phillip Austin
Eggers, Louis Herman
Emerson, Henry Whyle, P. M.
E v ans, Charles, P. M.
Farley, Newton Seymour
Finn, Alexander
Ford, William Henry
Ford, Henry Darnall
Fischer, George Cresent
Fowler, Herbert Eli
Gregory, Henry C.
Granger, Farley Benjamin, P. M.
Grau, Edward Arnold, P. M.
Graham, George Edwin
Green, Harry Beck
Hansen, Peter Christian
Haley, Caleb Scott, P. M.
Haley, Comfort
Raley, William Wallace
Rare, Andrew Jackson, P. M.

ROSTER.

193

Whipple, James Ray
Whitfield, Albert Arthur
Williams, George Henry
Wright, George Whitfield-98.

Trefr1, James A.
Volmer, Rudolph, P. M.
Werner, Edward Peter
Whipple, Edwin, P. M.

REDWOOD CITY LODGE

No. 168.

Redwood City, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Kendall Towne, Master,
Wm. A. Shrewsbury, Sen . Deacon,
Roy Walter Cloud, Sen. Warden,
Rudolph C. Holquist, Jun. Deacon,
Ernest Henry Werder, Jun. Warden, James Jay Rogers Marshal .
~~d~g Philip Behrens, Treasurer, George Henry Le~ry, Stew~rd,
wm Benton Fox, Secretary,
James Marion Pipkin, Steward,
John Watkin Glennan, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andreen, Nils Andy
Bacon, Willard Wilson
Barret, Walter Melville
Barstow, William Addison
Bassetti, Antonio
Batchelder, Edgar Barnard
Beeger, Charles Christian
Blhrens, Ludwig Philip
Black, Henry
Blomquist, Alfred George
Boicelli, Daniel
Boicelli, Vietor
Breese, James Patterson
Brown, Robert
Carter, Willia m Bot tomly::
Chamberlain, P. Pereg~n, P. M.
Chilcott, Richard Frederic
Cloud, Roy Walter
Conover, John Simpson
Cook, Alonzo
Crowe, James
Dobbe!, Charles Henry Louis
Eckhart, Charles Harmon
Einstein, Gabriel
Elvin, F erdinand
Emmett, Walter Alfred
]3

Fox, Edwin Benton
Fulton, Albert Leonidas
Gillespie, James
Glennan, John W alkin
Goodspeed; Isaac Roscoe
Graham, Andrew
Graves, Nathan Brockett
Hansen, Christian Eiler
Hayward, Clarence D ecatur
Headley, William
Heiner, Lawrence Andrew
Hixner, Louis
Hextrom, Charles August
Heydenfeldt, Thomas O., P. M.
Hillebrand, Henry
Hoffman, Carl Paul M.
Holden, George Walcott
Holmquist, Rudolph Carl
Hughes, William
Joyce, William Holland
Kreiss, Philip
Kreiss, George Augustus
Landscheit, Charles George, P. M.
Leary, George Henry
Lipp, William Henry
Lochlin, Curtis Brockway

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

194
Lowe, Albert Louis
Lowe, Julius William, P. M.
Mansfield, Joel Henry
MacBain, Edward Gordon
MacBain, John
McCracken, Charles Larken
McCrea, Samuel Pressly
McPherson, John Andrew
Mille, David Josiah
Moberry, Leonard Albert
Mosher, Alvin Hiram
Neal, George Albert
Nelson, John Arvid
Nielson, Knud Kristian
Orton, Wellington Eugene
Otzen, Lorenz
Peers, Alex.
Pipkin, James Marion
Pipkin, William Henry
Poole, John
Poole, John Wesley, P. M.
Ralston, John Thurston

Ramsay, Thomas Henry
Rice, Thomas Clarke
Rich, Charles Robert
Robertson, Charles Davicl
Rogers, Jam!ls Jay
Roes,. George Carlos
Ross, Joseph Louis
Rumbol, Richard Foyster
Saunders, Benjamin Ra~kin
. Sebastiani, Salvatgre
Shrewsbury, William Arthur
Sickert, Frederick Wilhelm
Stevenson, Howard Griffith
Stuart, William Baker
Swanson, Carl
Thompson, Henry Bailey
Towne, Frank Kendall
Vorhies, Daniel Groff
Wirder, Ernest Henry
Winkler, John Carl G.
Wisnom, John
Yount, George Henry-96.

•

MISSION LODGE, No. 169.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Wednesday in each month
OFFICERS:
Edward Franklin Crosett, Master, Harry E. Leland, Sen. Deacon,
Sherman. A. Bishop, Sen. Warden, · Robert Edward Allan, Jun. Deacon,
F. Hurshall Thrall, Jun. Warden, Henry Hall, Marshal,
Thomae Elam, Treasurer,
John Hazlett, Steward,
Frank Wesley Smith, Secretary,
. William Joseph Berger, Steward,
James Edward Parmelee, Tyler.
Adriance, Walter Doughty
Aikins, Thomas George
Allan, Robert Edward
All1J.n, Thomas John
Allen, Arthur Dence!
Allen, Richard Spicer, P. M.
Amy, Winfield Scott

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Edward Walter
Anderson, George Magnus
Anderson, Isaac
Anderson, Jonathan
Andrews, John
Andrews, Marine Axel
Antonsen, Hans

Apperson, John Alex., P. M.
Arnberger, Richard Claus
Arnold, Harry Brown
Arthur, James Lemuel
Astrup, Hagen Frederick
Atkinson, George Frederick
Ayers, Charles Lamont
Babcock, Madison
Badgley, Gilbert Benjamin
Ball, Thaddeus
Barke, Elias Anderson
Barker, Joseph
Barlow, William George
Barnes, Edward
Barnes, William Wallace
Barron, Arthur William
Basney, Virgil Fyler
Bates, William Edwin
Battelle, Ernest Leslie
Bean, Willard Calder.hood, P. M.
Becht, George Joseph
Beck, Adam
Beck&, George Ernest
Beebe, George Alson
Beede, Stephen McDonald
Beicke, Louie John Emil
Bemiss, Lincoln Edward
Benedict, Amos William
Benedict, Charles Edward
Benedict, James Seymour
Benner, Emerson Ozias
Bennett, John Joseph
Berg, George Charles
Berg, Isaac
Berger, William Joseph
Beryman, George
Beverly, Edward Howard
Bigelow, Edwin Wells
Bishop, Frank Bryant
Bishop, Sherman Augustus
Bitley, Frank William
Black, Edwin Crane
Black, William
Blackburn, William Henry
Bodie, Harry William
Boelen, Alfred Blatchley

195

Boelen, William Charles
Bolting, Arthur John
Booth, Percy Harold
Boyd, George W aehington
Boysen, Edward Constantine
Brace, Nathan
Brady, William, Jr.
Brandon, Frederick Duke
Brandtjen, John Charles
Brann, Harry Harding
Brann, Robert Chaplain
Breitenstein, Edmund Ed. Wm.
Brewer, Frederick Adolph
Brewer, Frederick Irving
Brizard, Maxime John .
Brockmann, George Robert
Brockmann, Henry Frederick Wm.
Brodek, Robert Tuch
Brookover, Joseph Cochran
Brooks, Alpheus Baxter
Brooks, Ezra Rockwell
Brooke, Orion
Brown, Clive Augustus
Brown, Daniel Davis
Brown, James Henry
Browne, Francis Julian
Browne, Robert Daniel
Bruns, Henry Frederick
Bryan, Jaeob
Bryon, Benjamin
Bunker, Charles Dimmock
Bunker, Henry Chase, P. M.
Burg, Carl Henry
Burg, Gustaf Frederick
Burgess, Cornelius Simmo11ds
Burgess, Joseph Edward
Burgren, Arthur William
Burness, Robert Duke
'.Burness, John Elder
Burroughs, Charles Rickerteon
Burton, Arthur John
Butler, John Alfred
Butterfield, William Abram
Cadwell, Howard Wiswell
Callender, Walter Louis
Campbell, Donalcl. R.

190

Campbell, John Malcolm
Cardinell, John Douglass
Carn.all, Henry
Carren, John Thomas
Center, Hugh
Chamberlain, William Louis
Chapin, George Edward
Chatham, William
Chorley, Ross Robertson
Christeneon, Andrew, P. M.
Christian, James Allen
Christiansen, Ernst Wm. Charles
Clare, Robert Moffitt, P. M.
Clark, Frank Emerson
Clark, Joseph, Edmund
Clark, Milton Sutton
Claussen, Daniel
Claussen, Gustave Frederick
Clay, Wade Hampton
Clough, Charles Andres
Cobb; William Henry, P. M.
Coburn, Charles Edward
Coffin, Dewey
Coffin, Rudolphus William
Coiner, Oscar Christian
Coles, Harrison Palmer
Collier, Henry Borradaile
Collins, Thomas Cahall
Comings, Orrington Lunt
Condo~, Michael Daniel
Conrad, William
Conway, George
Cook, Donald
Cooke, Archibald
Cookson, Fr&nk Spencer
Cooper, Arthur William
Cooper, Herbert Harry
Cordes, William Frederick
Coulter, Rob.ert Ashford
Couper, Edgar Ward
Courtright, William Leander
Cousins, Richard Joseph
Coutts, James Stirling
Cox, John Hadden
Cox, Palmer, P. M.
Crosett, Edward Franklin

ROSTER.
Cruden, John
Curnow, George Livingston
Currie, Robert, Jr.
Curtis, John Morrison
Cuthbertson, George Washington
Daggett, Harry Mayhew
Daly, John Donald
Daly, Samuel Joseph
Damuth, Wilbur Civill
Danielson, Gustaf
Davids, John Windsor
Davidson, George Bailey
Davies, David Caradoc ·
Davies, Thomas Abraham
Davis, George Alvinza
Davison, William Henry
Dawson, Otto John
Day, Charles Austin, P. M.
Day, Henry Lucas
Day, Thomas Henry
Daywalt, George Washington
Dean, Corbett George
Dean, Francis
Deemer, John Franklin, P. M.
De Guerre, Wade Hampton
De Langton, George HanJy
DeLano, Willie Winfry
Dennett, Louis Charles
Deremberg, Emil
Dethlefsen, Nicolai Friedrich
Dettmers, George
Dickie, Walter Murray
Diserens, Frederick .
Dodd, Milton Franklin
Dodd, Robert William
Dodge, Theophilus CharleR
Dominguez, Richard Arthur
Donaldson, Robert
Dorsey, Gilbert Maxwell
Douglas, George Willard
Douglass, William
Dow, Cyrus Clinton, P. M.
Dowle, William Godfrey
Doyle, Charles Davis
Draffin, William Henry
Driefer, Conrad Ludolf

ROSTER.
Drummond, Mark
Dunbar, Hubbard Foster
Duncan, Benjamin Beatty
Duncan, James Hepburn
Duncan, Robert L.
Duperu, William Alphonse
Dyer, Emerson Cr.o cker
Dyer, Richard William
Eastman, Edward Ferry
Eastman, George Mason
Eaton, John William, P. !\'[.
Ede, William
Edwards, John Henry
Edwards, William
Efford, Robert James
Elam, Thomas
Elder, Robert
Ellefsen, Charles
Ellinger, Charles Georg Gustav
English, George Edward
English, John Francis
Evans, Chester Hepburn
Evans, George Herbert
Ewell, Augustus Hyde
Fahrenholz, Frederick William
Fairchild, Willard Wilson
Fairfield, Marshall
Fairfield, Marshall Joseph
Fairgrieve, William
Falconer, John
Falkenstein, Christian Jacob
Farrell, William
Feiling, Louis
Fell, Thomas
Ferrier, George Washington
Fetter, Frank Culin
~er, Charles Emmons
Flack, James Maurice
Flack, William Malen
Floyd, William Erwin
Forbes, Thomas Henry
Ford, William
Forrest, Edwin
Fortune, James Alex.
Fossey, Harry Edwin
Foster, George Lewis

197

Frahm, Claus
Frahm, Henry Thomas ·
Frahm, William Claudius
Frantz, Clarence Sherman
Fredericks, William Godfrey
French, Edward James
Freyermuth, Otto George
Fricke, John William
Gage, Charles Leslie
Gaines, Rufus Henry
Gallagher, Robert Ferral
Gardiner, Alex. Smith
Gardner, Frederic Archie
Gatley, John
Gatley, Richard Henry
Gee, William Stokes
Genesy, Walter Alex.
Gentle, Willi&m Frederick
George, Anson Northrup
George, Clarence Farmer
George, William Henry
Gesford, Henry Olay
Gibson, Fred Herbert, P. M.
Gibson, William Walker .
Gilbert, Ernest Joseph
Gilbert, Frank L.
Gilson, John Edward
Ginty, Eugene Mabury
Gitsham, Charles
Giuro, Paul ·
Gleaves, Christopher Columbus
Goode, Walter Thomas
Goodfellow, Summerfield Isaiah
Gordon, Robert
Gosliner, Harry Benjamin
Gostlin, Thomas
Granicher, Walter August Herman
Grant, James Cameron
·
Grantland, John
Gray, James Alfred
Green, Morris
Greenfield, Charles Edward
Griffith, William
·
Grotefend, Charles William
Gunderson, Thomas
Gunn, Alfred Scott

198
Gunn, Herbert
Gunnison, .A:lbert Warren
Gunnison, Frank Sawye'
· Haight, Louis· Montrose
Haines, Samuel Newell
Hale, Charles Rector
Hale, Frank Orrin
Hale, Robert Lee
Halket, William Duncan
Hall, Henry
Hallett, Eugene Bartlet
Hallgren, Fred
Hallquist, Philip
Halsted, John Bernard
Haman, Henry
Hambly, Harry Bishop
Hammit, John Nimrod
Hansell, Calvin Emerick
Hansen, August Raymond
Hansen, Christian Winchler
Hansen, Theo. Peter
Hanson, George Franklin
Happersberger, Emil
Harper, Ale~. JaIIJeS
Haslehurst, William Wallace
Haslett, Joseph
Hatch, Francis Oliver
Hatch, Herbert uocy
Hatton, George
Haughton, John
Haughtop, John William
Hawksley, Alex.
Hayes, Benjamin West
Hayselden, Percy James
Hazlett, John
Headrick, Andrew Johnson
Hedges, Joaeph Wharton
Hellwig, Karl Frederick S:. C.
Henn, Theo. Edwin
Henry, Robert Allan
Hepburn, John
Hermann, Emil Arminius
Herring, Richard, P. M.
Hesse, Edwin Ellsworth
Hetzer, Henry August
llickie, Peter William

ROSTER.
Hiefield, Alfred Thomas
Higgins, Robert
Hilder, Louis
Hill, William
Hillman, John Reuben, P. M.
Hilton, Franklin Charles
Hind, George Urwin
Hitzeroth, Lorenz Devenport
Hoag, Jonathan Kittridge
Hock, Henry
Hock, Henry Tobias
Hodgdon, James Peverly, P. M.
Hoertkorn, Charles Albert
·
Hofen, William Charle11
Hohfeld, Clarence Henry
Holland, Frank Stuart
Holloway, Albert Eugene
Holmes, Clarence Rawson
Holmqwst, Frank Oscar
Hooper, John Milton
Hopkins, John Louis
Horton; Charles Coates
Hougaard, William Frederick
Howe, William Dikeman
Howell, Josiah -Rowland
Hoyt, James Merton
Hoyt, William Albert
Hulse, David Andrew
Hummel, George William
Hursh, Ray Leslie
Hursh, Loren .Leigh
Husar, Christian
Hutton, Cassius Albert
Ingersoll, John Francis
Inman, Thomas George
Ireland, Elvie Levan
Irwin, Charles Milton
Jacks, Henry
Jackson, Charles Hooper
Jackson, John Quincy
Jager, George
Jager, Will Phillip
Jagger, Henry Corbett ·
Jamieson, Andrew
Janes, Thomas Inglif!
Janes, William Henry

ROSTER.
Jenkins, William McDonald
Johns, Josiah
Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Thorwald
Johnson, Olaf
·
Johnston, George
Johnston, George Alex.
Jones, Bert Monroe
Jones, Edward Thomas
Jones, Frederick Charles
Jones, Hu
Jones, John Bates ·
Jones,' John Edmund
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Osgood Keener
Jones, Samuel A.
Jones, Thomas
Jones, William Franklin
Jones, William Gustus
Jordan, William Henry
Jose, Ricardo Juan
Juel, Adolph Oliver
Kanzee, Arthur
Kanzee, Austin
Keller, James Edwin
Kellie, Charles
Kenne, Frank George
Kern, Louis Adolph
Kerr, Charles
Kerr, William Rodgers
Kessen, James Morton
Keyser, Paul
Keyston, James Woods
Keytson, James Woods, Jr.
Keyston, Samuel Albert
Keyston, William Donald
Kight, ·David Mooreland
Killgore, Edwin Read
Killgore, Robert Read
King, Dennis Wyckoff .
King, John Watt
King, William Riddick
Kingsland, George Robert
Klein, John Mathias
Klose, Emil Adolph
Kneass, Edward Daniel

Konrad, Joseph Leopold
Kornbeck, Christian Hansen
Kreher, Otto Max
Kreisel, Edward
Kress, Augustus Herman
Krug, Peter John
Kruse, Louis Frank
Kuhl, Max .John
Kuhl, William Frederick
Lamont, William
Land, George Burton
Lane, Mark Graham
Lane, Roscoe Edgerly
Langlois, Francis Bernard
Larimer, Elmer Forrest
Lawrence, James
Leider, Albert Christian Fred 'k
Leland, Harry Everrett .
Lemon, Gordon Cruickshank
Levensaler, Joseph Gillchrest
Libby, Charles Frederic, P. M.
Lieb, Henry Melville
Liebenow, Herman Carl
Linderman, Samuel Williard
Lindley, William Purdy
Lindsey, Douglas
Lindstrom, John Francis
Little, Archibald Dunlap
Logan, Ross Clay
Lord, Thomas
Lothrop, Arthur Baxter
Love, Joseph Charles
Lover, Walter
uowrie, John Morr.ison
Luce, Samuel Andrew
Lundstrom, Knut Arvid Magnus
Lunt, George William, _P. M.
Lyon, Walter Seth
Macaulay, Henry Cl:i.yton
MacDonald, Lincoln Duncan
Mack, Albert Christian
Malcomson, Thomas
Mangelsdorf, Willy
Mann, Patrick James
Marsh, John Alfred
Marshall, OJ:ia_rles

199

200

Marston, Frank Wheeler
Mason, Frank
Mathews, George Monroe
Mathis, Jacob Lenhardt
Matthews, Willie S.
Mau, Charles Albert
Maundrell, Harry
May, Fulton Hugh
McAllister, Richard Victor
McCall, Elvin Carlile
McCall, William
McCarty, James
McCarty, Louis Philippe
McClinton, Myron Giles
McCook, James
McCormick, William Whipple
McCracken, John W.esley
McDermott, James
McDonald, John Glen
McDonald, Wallace Sinclair
McGavran, Stephen William
McGilvray, John Duff, Jr.
McGinley, Robert Henderson
McGregor, Alex.
McGregor, John Ingra111
McGregor, William
Mcintosh, John .
Mcintosh, John Frazer
McKenzie, Albert William
McKillop, William John
McKnew, Henry Lee
McLachlan, Andrew Stephen,
McLachlan, Thomas Mitchell
McLagan, Charles
McLaren, Archibald Rowan
McNair, Andrew
McNoble, Emery Lewis
McPhun, William, Jr.
Meaney, Lewis Joseph
Mecredy, Frederick Albert
Mecredy, John
Mennie, Alex.
Merrill, Gilman Berlin
Meroy, Edward Thomas
Meyers, William Alfred
Miller, John Alex.
Miller, John Edward Adolphus

HOSTER.
Miller, John Wallace
Miller, Robert John
Miller, Robert Notman
Miller, William (1)
Miller, William (2)
Mirk, Thomas
Mocine, John Calvin
Moffat, James Campbell
Moore, John Cutler
Moore, William Hiland
Moore, William Wallace, P. M.
Moran, Allan Gar:fi,eld
Morgan, Dayton Henry
Mori, Emille Daniel
Morse, Charles Elias
Morse, George Lascelles
Mothander, John Johnson
Moulthrop, Howland King
Muller, George Edward
Mullin, James
Munck, Charles Emil
Murray, Percy Victor
Murray, Robert
Murray, Warren Edwards
Neal, William
Nelson, Edward Morgan
Nelson, Henry Severen
Nelson, John Archibald
Nelson, Louis
Nelson, Nels Lawrence
Newkirk, Daniel Irwin
Newman, Jerome
Nicol, Walter Dair
Nielsen, Niels Andersen
Nilson, Brown Oscar
Norris, Joseph Kenny
Nuckolls, Holland McTyeire
Nuhrenberg, Martin Jurgen
Nutter, Joseph Lyman
0 'Brien, William Lawrence
Oehne, Frederick
Oeverndiek, Frederick Charles
Ogden, Benjamin Franklin
Ogden, Charles Roy
Ogden, George Henry
O'Keefe, Jeremiah
Oliver, David, Jr.

.ROSTER.
Ollrich, John Frederick
Olsen, John Jacobsen
Olsen, William Christensen
Olson, John
Onslow, Frank
Ordway, William Chase, P. M.
Osgood, Henry Benjamin
Owen, William Lunt
Packer, Orville Hugh
Park, Alex. Dewar
Parmelee, Chauncey Albertus
Parmelee, James Edward
Partridge, Harry
faterson, William
Patten, Henry
Patterson, George William Hill
Peabody, Eflward
Peck, ClarEnce Edwin
Peltre.t , Peter Glode
Pennington, Thomas Edwin
Percival, Elijah
Perry, John Wilson
Petersen, Hans
Petersen, Hans Lausten
Petersen, Niels Mason
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Pettersen, Axel Hagbarth
P:fingst, Ferdinand Louis
Phelps, George Wesley
Philip, Adrian Sickles, P. M.
Phillips, George Joseph
Phillips, William
Piper, Stephen Livingston
Plymire, David Brandley
Poar, Ctlarles Burnett
Poch, Charles Emil
Pope, James Bond
Porter, George Keith
Polter, Edwin Segsworth
Prahl, Gustave Joseph
Pratt, Charles Henry Sinclair
Price, William Edmond, P. M.
Prince, Henry Gilman
Prior, John Stanley
Quellmalz, Fred
Quinlan, James Henry

Quinton, George Henry
Rabb, Frederick William
Ramsden, Thomas
Rees, Samuel Irving
Reich, Frederick William
Reid, Archibald
Reid, John Miller
Reid, William Henry
Reigle, Henry Herfert
Renwick, Myron Hatch, P. M.
Rice, Philip
Richardson, Clifton Page
Rickard, Richard Penrose
Roberts, Marshall CallowiLy
Roberts, Oliver
Roberts, Richard Morris
Robinson, George
Robinson, Seymour Heman
Robischon, Marie Richard
Rodecker, Elias, P. M.
Rogers, William Clement
Rogers, Charles Sumner
Rolph, Ronald Taylor
Rood, Frank Henry
Rosich, Nicholas Charles
Roy, John Alex.
Ruckstell, John Rudolph
Rudy, Benjamin Mylin
Sanborn, Irving Howard
Saul, Eugene Carroll
Saunders, Frederick
Sawdon, Thomas Thompson
Sayles, Harry Albert
Scammon, Meltiah Lancaster
Schloegel, Frederick E. Augustus
Schmitt, Henry Clay
Schott, Carl Conrad
Schrader, Edwin William
Schrader, Otto
8chramm, Carl Christopher F.
Schulz, Paul
S11ott, Edwin George
Scott, George Booth
Scott, Shailmer Mackint.J&h, Jr.
Seaver, Fred Dan
Seel, Ernest

201

202

Severance, Isaac Hillman
Sewell, Daniel Robert
Shafer, Frank Ellsworth
Shaver, Hamilton Elijah
Shephard, Bertram Holmes Doug.
Siemers, John Diedrich
Sigler, John D.
Silovich, John
Silvia, Michael
Sipe, Milo '.l'aylor
Siskron, Charles Alfred
Siskron, Henry George
Smith, David Charles
Smith, Frank Joseph
Smith, Frank Wesley
Smith, Isaac Henry
Smith, James (1)
Smith, James (2)
Smith, William Alvord
Smith, William Irving
Snell, Frank Scott
Somers, Frank Alton
Somers, Harvey Curtis
Soper, Joseph Henry
Spadoni, Joseph
Spear, Lewis Eugene
Spencer, Alex.
Spinney, John Crozier
Starbird, Ralph
Statham, William Mathew
Steere, Jesse Edmund
Steinmann, Frederick Adolph
Stephenson, William
Stevenson, John
Stewart, Otho
Stewart, William Harley
Stidston, Archibald Wakeham
Stiller, Reinhold Charles
Stone, John Thomas
Stone, Jack Livingston
Strang, John
Sturgess, Charles William
Summerhayes, William Ruggles
Swenson, John Augustus
Sykes, Frank Centennius
Tabrett, Henry Charles

ROSTER.
Taylor, Charles Herbert
Taylor, Fred William
Taylor, George Howes
Taylor, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Terbush, George Finchly
Theller, George Platt
Thomas, Arthur Frederick
Thomas, Edward Henry
Thomas, Frederick G.
Thomas, Henry Jerome
Thomas, Philip Matson
Thompson, Bernard
Thompson, Chadwick
Thompson, Charles Jefkins
Thompson, John, P. M.
Thompson, Hans
Thompson, George
Thomsen, Einar Tonnessen
Thomson, Samuel Mehaffy
Throp, Clement Barton
Thorp, Henry Walker
Thrall, Frank Hurshall
Tietje, Ernest Henry
'.dmbrell, John Benjamin
Titchworth, Charles Canfield
'!'oft, Christian Peder
Tourtelotte, William Ellsworth
Townsend, Walter Boyd
Treadwell, Edward Francis
Trevivick, William George
Troyer, Roderic Arthur
Truman, Irwin Joseph, Jr.
Tucker, Edwin Warren, P. M.
Tucker, Edwin Warren, Jr.
Tyler, Thomas
Vannatta, Frank Tuller
Van Buren, George Martin
Vandercook, Roberts
Van Orden, Charles Howard
Van Orden, George Newins
Varney, Frank Hastings
Varney, George Henry
Varney, John Warner, Jl'.
Varney, Kit Roberts
Veith, Paul Felix Joseph
Voight, George Fritz

ROSTER.

203

Von W erthern, Henry
White, Arthur Erwin
Wagner, Adam, Jr.
White, Charles Harry .
Wagner, John, P. M.
White, William Harrison
Wahl, Robert Gottfried
Whorf, Frederick Ellsworth
Waldau, Christian
Whyte, Malcolm Crawford
Walker, George
Wiedenbeck, George
Wallace, Albert William
Wilhelm, John Harry
Wallace, Robert
de Winton, William Wilkins, P. M.
Wallace, Willialn
Williams, John Butler
Wallis, Samuel Charles
Williamson, Edwin L.
Warren, Frederick Melville
Wilson, Henry Adams
Waterhouse, Fred 'k Adelbert, P. M. Wilson, James Andrew, P. M.
Watson, Sage
Wilson, John
Watson, William Walter
Winkel, George
Weaver, Hammond Shipley
Winslow, Henry Charles
Webster, George Albert
Winzler, Alfred Charles
Weigel, Joel
Wisker, Frank Gavin
Welton, John William
Wohlstein, Frederick William
West, George Washington
Wolfe, Edward
West, John
Wood, John
West, John Charles
Woods, Robert
West, Joseph Daniel
Young, George Samuel
Westaway, William Charles
Young, John James
Weston, John Arthur
Young, Lyman Foster
Westwater, Andrew
Ziegler, Charles Louis
Wetmore, William Brown
Zillmer, Adolph Louis William
Weule, Ernest Louis
Zollner, William Adolph
Whitaker, George Everard
-807.

ELK GROVE LODGE, No. 173.
Elk Grove, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Edward G. Stephenson, Master,
Albert H. Watson, Sen. Deacon,
G. Moore Taverner, Jun. Deacon,
E. W. Springstead, Sen. Warden,
}'erley K. Bradford, Jun. Warden, ...................... Marshal,
Wm. Thomas Stephenson, Treasurer, Charles Bruce Bradford, Steward,
George Shaw Williamson, Secretary, Aubrey Maurice Leavitt, Steward,
........................ Tyler.

204

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Leavitt, Albert Fletcher
Alltucker, Henry, P. M.
Mahone, Robert .Henry
Alltucker, George Henry
Barry, Edmund Edward
McConnell, Thaddeus Curtis
Bradford, George Bruce, P. M.
McKee, James Anderson
Bradford, Hugh Barr, P. M.
Mealer, Thomas Jefferson
Bradford, James Bascum
Messenger, Richard
Bradford, Pearley Kilbourn
Reith, Jesse Lee, P. M.
Bradford, William Barton
Richards, John Lincoln
Bradford, Charles Bruce
Rowley, Eugene
Ehrhardt, Frederick William
Runyon, William Smith
Ehrhardt, Henry Lester
Russell, Joseph
Elliott, John
Scholz, Ernest
Elliott, Christopher Adam, P. M.
Smith, Gideon Henry
Elliott, Andrew
Springstead, Ernest Willard
Freeman, Isaac Lake, P. M.
Stephenson, Igal Kennedy
Gage, Arthur Delos, P. M.
Stephenson, John Nichols
Gage, Stanley Robinson
Stephenson, William Thomas, P. M.
Glann, Peter
Stephenson, John Francis, P. M.
Gray, Arthur Irwin
Stephenson, George Edward
Hasman, Joseph Lewis
Stewart, Norman Ives
Haviland, Phillip
Taverner, George Moore •
Herbert, Louis
Tribble, Claud Duval
Hogaboom, Benjamin Baldwin
Trueblood, Edward Ellsworth
Hoover, Benjamin Van Zandt
Ulman, Frederick George
Johanson, Carl Johan
Walther, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Kelley, James Monroe
Watson, Albert Henry
Korn, Joseph, P. M.
Watson) George Franklin
Krull, Ane Ayets
Wells, Cary Thomas
Lewis, Edmund William
Williamson, George Shaw
Leimback, John Herbert
Yenger, William Henry
Leavitt, Aubrey Maurice
---6l.

DRYTOWN LODGE, No. 174
Drytown, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding FnI! Moon.
OFFICERS:
Claude Wilson, Master,
Fred Butler LeMoin, Sen. Deacon,
William Scoble, Senior Warden,
Thomas Silva, Junior Deacon,
W. S. Weymouth, Jun. Warden,
Charles Harrison Marchand, Marshal,
Charles Henry Shields, Treasurer, · Thomas Honey Church, Steward,
Allen Lee McWayne, Secretary,
George Choat Jennings, Steward,
Edward Vestor Tiffany, Chaplain,
Guiseppi Bo, Tyler.

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Bo, Guiseppi
Moore, J. Henry
Buskin, Willmm J.
Ralph, Joseph Henry
Evans, Robert
Rouse, Thomas
Hinkson, John Milton, P . M.
Scoble, William
Honey, Church Thomas
Shields, Charles Henry
Jennings, George Choat
Silva, Thomas
LeMoin, Fred Butler, P. M.
Tiffany, Edward Vestor
Marchand, Charles Harrison, P. M. Wilson, Claude
Mc Wayne, Allen Lee
Weymouth, Wilbur Shadrach-18.

ANTIOCH LODGE, No. 175·
Antioch, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ralph Merrill Bee.de, Master,
H. McNulty Beede, Sen. Deacon,
Otto Emil Klengel, Sen. Warden,
Fred C. Woolcott, Jun. Deacon,
Archie V. McFaul, Jun. Warden,
.. ........ ... .. ., Marsha1'>
Robert Harkin11on, Treasurer,
Chas. F. Tyler Beede, Steward,
Josiah Rio Baker, S ecretary,
Robert Paul Campbell, Steward,
Henry Fuller Beede, Cbaplain,
· Stephen Horace McKellips, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Joshua Plummer, P. M .
Durham, Lee Bartlett Holt
Anderson, Oscar
Eby, Charles Lincoln
Baker, Josiah Rio, P. M .
Ellis, James Wardrobe
.rleede, Henry Fuller, P . M .
Glass, James Riley
Beede, Harry McNulty
George, Worth Scott
Beede, Charles Frank Tyler
Hansen, Rasmus Emil
Beede, Ralph Merrill
Harkinson, Robert, P. M.
Belshaw, Charles Mortimer, P. M.
Harkinson, John Lincoln
Belshaw, William Walter
Harkinson, Daniel Donald
Bermingham, Samuel
Hartley, Anderson Corbin, P. M.
Bonslett, Jacob A.
Hay, William Edgar
Carter, James, P. M.
Hooper, F _rank Joseph
Cox, John Thomas, P. M.
Horr, Charles Perry
Cleaves, Steven Chase
Jacobs, Morris Harris
Clarke, Edwin Gilding
Johnson, Frank H enry
Croxon, Warren George Hubbard,
Joslin, Arba Vandenberg
Cole, William Fawsett
Joslin, Royal Tregea
Campbell, Robert Paul
Jost, Frederick
DeWitt, John Wallace
Keeney, Collins Woodruff
Dunningan, Marcus Wesley
Klengel, Otto Emil

205

ROSTER.

206
Kent, Harry Wallace
Livingston, Frank William
Lomax, William Benoni
Mciore, Leroy Wilburn, P. M.
Moore, Walter Shelby, P. M.
Mead, Louie Durant
Minaker, George Alex.
Montgomery, Curtis Franklin
McGeorge, Verne Adrian
McKellipe, Stephen Horace
McFaul, Archie Valentine
McFaul, Jamee Reid
Nellis, Walter
Peterson, Oscar Amil
Potvin, Henry
Rapp, Edward Percy

Rattan, Frank
Rose, Willie Star
Rouse, John Collins
Rogers, Orlando Newton
Rother, Frederick Garlip
Smith, George Wallace
Smith, Robert Tangier
Story, Walter
Trythall, John Henry, P. M.
Uren, William
Veale, Richard Reines
Wright, George Creighton, P. M.
Wilkening, Frederick
Wightman, Joel David
Williams, Thomae Morgan
Yates, Richard-72.

PHOENIX LODGE, No. 178.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jesse Wm. Curtis, Senior Deacon,
Mack Bailey Shaw, Master,
James Blaine Miller, Sen. Warden, Rollins Potter, Junior Deacon,
·
Merwyn J. Newberg, Jun. Warden, John Foster, Marshal,
Henry Jackson Beggs, Steward,
John Andreeon, Sr., Treasurer,
Josiah Wheeler Morgan, Steward,
Francis L. Holcomb, Secretary,
Sydney Mee, Tyler.
Wesley Thompson, Chaplain,
Aldridge, David Lehigh
Allen, Jonas
Andreson, John, Sr.
Anderson, John Lee
Aspenwall, Francis Thomas
Bailey, William Allen
Baillie, Frederick Hollister
Baldwin, Melville Jay
Barnum, John Harold
Barrett, Simeon A.
Barrows, Charles Edgar
Barton, John William, P . M.
Beck, Webster

MEMBERS:
Beck, Charles August
Beck, John H.
Bechtel, Daniel Snyder
Beggs, Henry Jackson
Bieetman, Bernard
Blackburn, James Jackson
Blair, William Jackson
Blanchard, John Frederick
Boley, Eldri<lge Mounforcl
Bold, Francis James
Bowman, Thomae Hilt
B•·csslrr. F:::-ancis Milton
Brown, John William

ROSTER.
Brown, Joseph
Burbeck, William Lee
Burkhart, John B.
Campbell, Chalon Guard
Carpenter, Daniel Jerome
Carr, John Louis
Chase, Phillip James
Chase, Herbert Harrison
Champion, Douglas
Chute, Austin Sirphrouns
Cla~k, Hiram
Clark, John Davis
Clapp, Thomas John Sercombe
,Cleghorn, John
·
Cleghorn, Lorenzo Dow
Cole, Charles Davie
Colliver, Jefferson Thomas
Colliver, John Adams
Colliver, Simeon Robinson
Conway, Michael
Coomes, William Edwin
Covalt, George Wallace
Culbertson, John
Culverhouse, William Sylvestllr
Curtis, William Jesse
Curtis, Jesse William
Daoust, Simeon
Davis, Andrew
Davis, James H.
Doran, Arthur L.
.
Desmond, Louis Alex.
Farall, Howard Lee
Foltz, George
Fording, William Hunter
Foster, John
Foster, Alfred Brian
Fox, George Chester
Garst, Daniel Edward
Gates, Harry
Gooding, Joseph Ephraim
Goodrich, George Lemuel
Gibson, James Alex., P. M.
Grow, Samuel Lorenzo
Guthrie, Harrison Hazlett
Haile, Smith Cook
Harold, Andrew Douglas

207

Harwood, Gustavus
Hawks, Charles William
Hecht, Milton Ephraim
Henning, William Canfield
Herbert, Lewis Charles
Hook, John
Holcomb, Francis Leroy
Howland, Frederick Edson
Holden, John Alex.
Hubbard, Anthony Gerhard
Hubbard, Walter, P. M.
Hulsizer, John
H vam, Thowald
Johnson, James Hunter
Johnson, Edward Powell
Johnson, Albert
Jones, Griffith Isaac
Kennedy, Robert Jamee
King, Robert Calvin
Knapp, Calvin Reason
Kerr, James Stewart
Kendall, George Theo.
Lauraine, Adolph
Leisenring, Frederick Gideon
Lewis, Charles Frederick
LeRoy, Charles Edwin
Littlejohn, James Henry
Lloyd, George W aehington
Mack, Royal Hegmer
Mack, John Alex.
Magoffin, Frank Hooker, P. M.
Marshall, John Albert
Marks, Joseph
Mccarter, John
McFarlane, Thomas Louie, Sr.
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Jr.
McGregor, James Charles
Mee, Sydney, P. M.
Mergetson, Frederick George James
Metzgar, Edward DeLoe
Miller, James Blaine
Mills, Henry William
Mills, Theo. Hardin
Morgan, J oeiah Whe!ller
Mortenson, Christian Neilson
Morris, Daniel Voorhees Oreman

208
Moffatt, James
Mudgett, Elvin Leroy
Mudgett, William
Newberg, Merwyn Jacobs
Nichols, William Buell
Orme, Thomas Whitefield, P. M.
Oster, Frank Frederick
Ousterhout, Fred Griffith
Oldaker, George Gad
Owens, Charles W., P. M.
Owens, Walter Rufus
Painter, George Washington
Parker, Robert Bryant
Parker, Lemuel
Parker, John Wesley
Penhollow, Phillip Albert
Perkins, Nathaniel
Perry, Morgan
Phelps, John Wesley
Phillips, Charles Siddall
Phillips, Frank Chandoes
Phillips, Joseph Wilber
Pierce, George Strunk
Porter, William Robert
Poppett, Robert
Port-er, Lewis Edwin
Poole, Charles Augustus
Potter, Rollins
Reese, George Jury
Reese, Sanford Marian
Roberts, Edwin David
Roberts, Horace Jewell
Robertson, William Jay
Rolfe, Horace Cowen, P. M.
Roos, Bo. Christian
Russell, James
Sayre, Edwin Weaver
Schuster, John
Seeman, John J.
Shaw, David Albert
Shaw, Mack Bailey
Shuford, Thomas Robert
Shuster, William Clement

R.OSTER.

ROSTER.
Skinner, Guy Elmer
Skinner, William Wright
Snow, Marcus Leonard
Smitheram, William
Smith, Newell Noble
Soule, William Lloyd Garrison
Sprott, Thomas William
Stephens, George Milan
Stone, David P .
Talmadge, Francis LeBanon
Talmadge, William Seymore
Taylor, Lewis Nathan
Terry, John Yale
•rerrass, Milford Byron, P. M.
Theobalds, Newton Lyle
Thomas, Alfred Ben.nett
Thomas, John Samuel
Thompson, Victor Little
Thompson, Wesley
Tinkham, Stephen Howard
. Tunison, Lafayett
T,yler, John Hugh
Upson, Orin Alva
Van Meter, Charles Edward
Waite, Sydney Payne
Walker, Walter Waldemar
Wallace, Albert Ernest
Waters, Byron Brewster
Wiggens, William R.
W egnori, Henry Francis
Winn, William Spencer
Wilson, Clarence Lyle
Wilson, Charles Henry
Wilson, Newton
Wilson, Thomas Jonathan, P. M.
Wilson, Thomas Jeffer son
Wilson, William H enry
Williamson, George Edward
Whiteman, John Stephen
White, Eugene Lee
Wells, James Thomas
Yount, Charles Edwin
Young, Elmer-204.

209

MENDOCINO LODGE, No. 179.
Mendocino, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Speer, Master,
Garfield N. Zavitz, Senior Deacon,
W. True Wallace, Jr., Sen. Warden, Percy Alfred Daniels, Jun. Deacon,
Jas. Wilson Todd, Jun. Warden,
William True Wallace, Marshal,
Henry Herbert Jarvis, Treasurer,
P erley Maxwel, Steward,
Charles Oscar Packard, Sec-retary, Gusto£ Henry Swanson, Steward,
John Arthur Chambers, Chaplain,
James Doyle, Tyler.
M E MBERS:
Ahlin, Nils En:i.l
A.lien, Leonard Joel
Anderson, Georg_!l Levi
Ayer, Oliver Daniel
Ayer, Samuel Lucine
Barker, William Henry
Berry, John Charles
Either, Lawrence Hartson
Bodell, Robert
Bowden, Charles Foster
Burwash, Henry Jefferson
Burlingame, Homer Sherwood
Carpenter, John Jacob
Chambers, John Arthur, P . M.
Clark, Byron
Clark, John Luther
Cocks, Joseph Baird
Coombs, William Boy d
Corrigan, James
D~rt, Frederick William, P. M.
Dart, Joseph Howe
Donaghue, Edward John
Dodge, Jefferson Lee
Doyle, James
Drumb, Samuel A.
Durst, Fred M.
Dykeman, John Joseph
Flood, Emery Newell
Flood, William Henry
Fraser, James William, P. M.
French, Robert H enry
Foster, Edwin Star
Furlong, Arthur Thomas
14

Gilkison, Melville Allen
Gray, Charles Thomas
Gray, Harold Cyrus
Gregory, Lester Claud
Grindle, .Joshua
Guthardt, Philip
Hall, Frank
Halling, Frederick, P. M .
Hanson, Hans Peter
Henningsen, Charles August
Hoak, Newman Ervine
Huff, Charles Edward
Jarvis, Henry H erbert
Jacobs, Jacob Dircks
Johnst on, Andrew E a rl
K een, James Edward
Keller, Willis Alfonso
Kent, Nathaniel Warren
Ledger, Fred
Leishman, John
Lindburg, John Peter, P. M.
Loveland, Stimulous Miles
MacDonald, John
Marshal, George Bates
Madsen, Mads J argen
Maxwell, Perley
McClelland, George
McClelland, George Blain
McClelland, James Garfield
McColgan, Dennis
McElroy , John Henry
McDonald, John K enneth
McKay, Andrew

ROSTER.

210

Moeller, Edward
Nelson, Joseph Alvin, P. M.
Newman, Andrew
Norbery, Charles Antone
Openlander, William Henry
Packard, Charles Oscar
·Patton, Joseph Warren Dias
Penther, Carl Frederick
Perkins, Fred Hillman
Perry, John Edward, P. M.
Peterson, James Louis
Peterson, Thomas Henry
Pitner, Oran Berry
Popp, Fred William
Puller, William
Reinertsen, Johannes Andrias
Rewcastle, James Goodie
Rice, James Charles
Richards, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Ross, John Simpson, P. M.
Robenson, Thomas Alex.
Rushing, Joel Willshire
Russell, Roderick Dhu
Rush, Barnard
Ryan, John Carbrett

Salsig, Edgar Budd
Sangster, Donald, P. M.
Scott, Alonzo D.
Scott, Edward Slaughter
Severance, Frank Billings
Smith, Frederick Hall
Smith, George Canning
Smith, Martin Thomas
Stanley, Otha Lonzo
Stone, Walter Morison, P. M.
Stuckey, Simon Fillmore
Stickney, Fred Walter
Speer, Samuel
Sutter, Richard Wesley
Swanson, Gustof Henry
Taunlund, Olof
Todd, ,James Wilson
Turner, William Price
Wahlstrom, Carl Gustaf
Wallace, William Trne, P. M.
Walla~e, William True, Jr.
Weiss, Frederick, P. M.
White, Clarence ffimer, P. M.
Wood, Casi:tner Jackson., P. M.
"-'-115.

PETALUMA LODGE, No. 180.
Petaluma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month
OFFICERS:
James McFadden, Senior Deacon,
John Alex. Olmsted, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Talbot McGuire, Marshal,
Park Andrew Van Bebber, Steward,
James Augustus Parke'l', Steward,
John Olsen, Tyler.

Herman Weber, Master,
Frederick A. N auert, Sen. Warden,
George Willard Gill, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Thomas Spridgen, Treasurer,
Wm. Sherman DeTurk, Secretary,
John Partridge, Chaplain,
Adams, John Quincy
Adams, William Samuel
Anderson, Alex.
Anderson, John Alfred

MEMBERS:
Allen, "George Frank, P. M.
Ayers, William David
Arthur, James C.
Bauer, John

ROST EB.
Bell, W ellie Samuel
Berri, Vittore
Blim, Peter Joseph, P. M.
Bloom, Adolph John
Bowen, William Eladsit
Bowen, Alfred Daniel
Bowers, Alphonzo Benjamin
Bowles, Scott
Bowles, Bourbon
Brainerd, Henry Paine, P. M.
Branch, George Byron
Brooks, Sylvester
Brown, Robert Henry
Brown, Robert Spear
Brunner, Robert
Burdell, James Black
Butler, Robert John
Button, Isaac V.
Byce, Lyman C., P. M.
Camm, Edward Irving
Camm, John Li"neoln, P. M.
{)ampigli, Charles
Cante!, Eugene
Champlin, Charles Chaffee
Clark, Walter
Coate, Henry R.
Collins, Frank Miller
Corliss, Albert
Crane, Tarleton Lee
Crippen, Commodore Perry
Cromwell, Frank Arlington, P. M.
Crossley, Nathaniel Mason
Dean, Chauncey Theo., P. M.
Denman, Frank Hardenbergh
DeCarli, Victor
DeTurk, William Sherman, P. M.
Denny, Thomas Carmen
Dillon, Charles Hardy, P. '.M.
Drees, Ernest Emil
Dreyfuss, Edward
Dunton, Oscar
Edwards, William Philips
Eddy, William Samuel
Engel, Michael
Evans, Edward Wm. M., P. M.
Fairbanks, Hiram Tolbert

211

Fairba:u.ks, Dolph Brice, P. M.
Fuller, Harve
Gale, Wallace Samuel
George, Jason Rodney
Giacomini, Natale
Gill, George Willard
Girard, Horace Thornton
Gossage, Harry Sherman
Goshen, Marcus Dyatheka, P. M.
Graham, Jonathan Harvey
Grandi, Salvatore
U-rant, Daniel
Grant, Henry Delano
Gray, Henry Charles
G~ay, Fred Lafayette
Green, Lyman, P. M.
Gross, Ludwig Lamprecht
Hamilton, George Washington
Haskell, William Barnabee
Haubrich, Leonard
Haskins, Thomas J effeTso.n
Hazelmire, Frederick
Henry, John
Herron, Frank Crail
Higbee, Hiram Bedell
Hinkle, John Baker
Hitchcock, Frank Newton, P. M.
Hill, Alex. Blaky
Hoag, James W.
Hopkins, Heney Clay
Hopkins, Samuel Judd
Howard, John Charles
Horwege, Augustus William, P. M.
Huntington, Horace Hutchings
Husler, Edward Alois
Jessen, Charles
Jensen, Hans
Johnson, Robert Francis
Johnson, John Eber
Kahn, Achille
Knock, Charles
Kuhnle, Fred
Kyle, Arthur Leonard
Lackey, Alex.
Lawler, John
Lippitt, Edward Spalding, P. M.

212
Lippitt, Frank Kavanaugh, P. M.
Lovejoy, George Palmer
Mack, Erick
Maclay, Thomas
Mardis, John D.
Martin, Samuel
McDonald, Gilbert
McFadden, James
McFadden, Reuben
McGuire, Thomas Talbot
McKillop, Dugald
McMullin, Smith
McMartin, John Alex.
McMurtry, Mathew
McNea.r, George Plummer
Merritt, John
Meyer, Jacob Frederick
Middleton, John Henry
Miller, George Anton
Miller, Theo.
Mills, William Andrew
Mitchener, Jonathan
Murphy, George Bennett
Nauert, Frederick Anton
Nauert, Frederick Anton, Jr.
· Nelson, Francis Victor
Neuburger, Morris
Olsen, John
Olmsted, John Alex.
Ormsby, Ernest Walter
Ottolini, Ferdinando
Park, Theo. "Temple, P. M.
Parker, James Augustus
P~rrish, David Franklin
Partridge, John
Penry, John Edward
Phelps, Frank Tracy
Phillips, Abraham Lincoln
Phillips, Frank Harry
Pitts, Isaac Jasper
Poehlmann, Conrad
Potter, Emanuel Andrew
Purvi~e, Thomas Byron
Purvine, William Burton
Rankin, Lowry Elmer
Reed, Clarence Ellsworth

ROSTER.
Reynolds, Edward Henry
Riese, Her:man William
Risk, David Rankin
Roberts, Henry John
Rodd, George Blackburn
Roseburgh, Allen
Robinson, William, P. M.
Rohrer, Charles Frederick
Ruffin, David Taylor
Samuels, Ernest Robert
Sartori, Victor
Schlicker, Frederick
Scott, John Columbus
Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar
Skinner, Arthur Tapin
Smith, George Neilson, P. M.
Smith, Harry Francis
·
Steiger, Peter Joseph
dimidian, Mihran M.
Spridgen, Willi.:.tm Th!>mas, P. M.
dtradling, William Charles
Stayner, Charles Allen
St. Jon11, Silas Cady
Strauss, David
Stull, John
Sweed, Philip
Sweetman, George Richard
Taft, Hiram Fayette, P. M.
Taft, Louis Russell
Taft, Chester K1moall
Thomas, Charles Edward
Thomas, Walter Scott
Tibbetts, Arthur Livingston, P. M.
Torr, Charles Lafayette
Towne, Walter
Trool.l, Oscar l!'ranklin, P. M.
Tupper, John Henry
Tuttle, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Van Bebber, Peter
Van Bebber, Park Andrew
\Tan Marter, William Henry
Vander Naillen, Edmund Lewis
Veale, William Roe, P. M.
Wallr..ce, Robert G., P. M.
W akefl.eld, Orrin .Lewis
Walls, David

ROSTER.
Ward, Erastus Caselton
WebE"l'. Herman
Wereley, George
Weil, Adolph Leopold
West, Frederick Charles
Weston, Harry McCurdy
Weston, Henry Little
Weyhe, Paul C.

213

Whiting, Henry Chester
Wilder, William
Willard, Thomas
Winsor, John Henry
Woods, Robert
Zartman, William
Zartman, William Henry
Zook, Frank Kurtz-208.

RUSSIAN RIVER LODGE, No. r8r
Windsor, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Ft1ll Moon.
OFFICERS:
Christian Julius Martin, Master,
Charles Wesley Roat, Sen. Deacon,
Grant A. Laughlin, Sen. Warden,
W. Manhattan Snow, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Henry Sift.all, Junior . Warden, James·B. Sheppard, Mar11hal,
Andrew Jackson Carter, Treasurer, Jacob William Berns, Steward,
Thomas Miller Yates, Secretary,
Stacy Lee, Steward;
John Wesley Mitchell, Chaplain,
James William Graham, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barnes, Edwin Harrison, P. M.
Hoffer, Charles Augustus
Bell, Warren
Jacobson, John Henry
Berns, Jacob William
Jones, Cellie
Bosch, John David
Kruse, John Anton
Carter, Andrew Jackson
Laughlin, ltrant Alex.
(Jooper, John David
Lavelle, John
Corsi, Ferdinand
Lavelle, William Thomas
Crosbie, Ji.mes
Lee, Stacy
Leech, Albert Earnest
Davis, Job Evans
Davis, John Martin
Lehn, Louis
Eckle, Tobias Louis
Leslie, John, P. M.
Edmondson, William John
Leslie, Thomas
Emery, Fred Artemus
Lindsay, Walter Clark
Estinghousen, Wm. Adam, P. M.
Macy, William Clinton
Frey, Peter
Maddux, James Everet
Graham, James William
Maddux, Lee
Green, John James
Maddux, William
Hall, Rufus Lee
MaKinson, Herbert Arthur
Hembree, Andrew Jackson
Martin, Cristian Julius
Hembree, Atlas Thompson
Mather, John
Higby, Earl David
Mccutchan, George Francis

ROSTER.

214

Roat, Charles Wesley
Sheppard, James Buchann.n, p; M.
Small, William Henry
Snook, Edward Birdsey
Snow, Wilford Manhattan
Tartter, Frederick
Temple, Richard
Trowbridge, George 'fyler, P. M.
Trudgett, William John
Tuttle, James
Wilson, Lawrence Henderson, P. M.
Wilson, Julius ·
Wilds, George Edward
Yates, Thomas Miller, P. M.
-71.

McCutchan, William Charles
Misener, Albert Fillmore
Mitchell, William James
·Mitchell, John Wesley
Monti, Tisiano
Nowlin, Andrew Brail
Opfer, Frank Augustus S.
Overton, Theo. Talbot
Pohley, Joseph Charles
Pool, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Pool, Frank Johnson
Pool, Harry Edward
Poch, Augustus Frederick
Pryor, Fredd Orlando
Russell, Hugh Alex.

ROSTER.
Myers, Lorenzo Dow
Pendleton, Samuel Alvah, P. M.
Peart, John Marshall
Rahm, Raasioe,_P. M.
Sherer, James Hamilton, P. M.
Sherer, John Dillon
Stanton, Claude Devon
Stebbins, Cyril Adelbert
Stewart, Charles William

215

Stewart, William .John, P. M.
Tolson, William Dement
Traynham, Henry Vaughn
Ward, John Canaday
White, John Cobb
Wilkins, Robert Watson
Woodland, James Ward
Zumwalt, Marion

-47.

CLEAR LAKE LODGE, No, 183.
Lower Lake, La.ke County.
Stated 14eetings, Saturday of or next pn,ceding Full :Moon

MERIDIAN LODGE No. 182.
College City, Colusa. County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Douglas Cramer, Master,
Samuel A. Pendleton, Sen. Warden,
Ed. M. Devendorf, Jun. Warden,
James Ward Woodland, Treasurer,
Foster Mott Evans, Secretary,
Guy H. Frazer, Chaplain,

G. Conrad Meckfessil, Sen. Deacon,
John Henry Myers, Jun. Deacon,
Roscoe Rahm, Marshal,
Ellis Landon Knox, Steward,
David Frisbie Briscoe, Steward,
John Canaday Ward, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Abraham, Ira.
Briscoe, David Frisbie
Cramer, Douglas
Christian, George Herman
Devendorf, Edwin M:. ·
Evans, Foster Mott
Frazer, Guy H.
Gabby, Robert Smiley
Gale, John Perry
Gillaspy, Robert Cleveland
Grevie, Peter
Grove, Walter
_Hardy, Herbert H.
Hollister, John Wilson
Howell, William Franklin

Hyde, Harry Edward
Kearth, George Wash. Lincoln
King, Thomas Carroll, P. M.
Knox, Ellis Langdon
Langenour, John Hamilton
Levy, David Louis
Locke, Charles Henry
Loorya, David Solomon
Marders, Cay Nelson, P. M.
Martin, Julius, P. M.
McCracken, Thomas J e:ffdson
Meckfessel, George Conrail, P. M.
Mitchell, J ame11 Edgar
Moore, George William, P. IY.:.
Myers, John Henry

OFFICERS:
Frank Akins, Master,
Herbert Levy, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Jardine Clayton, Sen. Warden, Francis M. Herndon, Jun. Deacon,
J. Dunbar Branerd, Jun. Warden,
liiram Kennedy, Marshal,
William Henry Smith, Treasurer,
George Wash. Wayne, Steward,
Luke Evans, Secretary,
Albert Fairfield Morrell, Steward,
Thomas L. Castellaw, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Akins, Frank
Arbuthnot, Phillip Stewart M.
Bell, Joseph Eugene
Brewer, Herbert William
Castellaw, Thomas Lorenzo
Clayton, William Jardine, P. M.
Crawford, John Naff
Cohn, Abraham
Evans, Luke
Forshee, Frank Hamilton
Frank, Leon .Harrison, P. M.
Herndon, Francis Marion
Jones, Daniel, P. M.
Kennedy, Hirain
Kennedy, Albert Hiram

Kirtley, John Elliott
Levy, Morrie
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Morrell, Albert Fairfield
Pardee, Bill Jennings, P. M.
Pardee, George Washington
Palatine, Samuel Thomas
Rawson, William Busfield
Reynolds, William Clarenee
Snow, George Horace
Smith, William Henry
Tyler, John Alex.
Wayne, George Washington
Wilson, Henry Harrison, P. M.
-29.

ROSTER.

216

SIERRA VALLEY LODGE. No.

ROSTER.
18~. ·

Sierraville, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full "Moon.
OFFICERS:
Samuel H. Crow, Master,
O. Nathan Webber, Se11, Deacon,
John N. Place, Jun. Deacon,
Daniel Jasper Webber, Treasurer,
James Morgan, Secretary.
MEMBERS:
Blinman, John
Chandler, William Henry, P. M.
Coates, Gaines Lane, P. M.
Crow, Samuel Harold
Dennis, William
Dolley, Linus
Dolley, Walter John
Fairchild, Thomas Manly
Hamlin, Edmund Higgins, P. M.
Hamlin, Edmund Henry
Hockett, Robert Vistail
Howk, John Simeon
Humphrey, Frank Ellis
Humphrey, John Britte
Johnson, Julius
Kynoch, Walter Anson
Maxwell, George Wilbert
Miller, William Egbert

Morgan, James
Nagle, George
Nichols, Albert S.
Nichols, Herbert Levi
.Nichols, William Llewellyn
Nichols, Herbert Osma
Olsen, Jacob John
Parker, Robert H.
Pattisson, David B.
Place, John Morton
Pritchard, Maurice
Rowland, Francis Marrion
Strang, Jarred
Toomy, John Shriver
Turner, Harry Augustus
Webber, Owen Nathan
Webber, Daniel Jasper
Wood, George-36.

217

MEMBERS:
Bishop, Elijah
Borden, Joseph Rea
Callnon, Eugene William, P. M.
Carter, Albert Edward
Castle, Curtis Harvey
Chalfant, Aaron, P. M.
Chalfant, Harold Philbrick, P. M.
Christie, Fred Abasolem
Clark, John
Coast, Owen Wesley
Dart, Ewing Kent
Davis, William Oliver
Ferry, Peter Christopher
Gardner, Robert Corllis
Getchell, Harvey Osgood
Gillmore, Emmett Patter, P. M .
Griffith, Forestes Lawson
Hussey, Richard
Halliday, Joseph Crockett, P. M.
Haskell, William Burton
Haskell, William Hascombe, P. M.
Hathaway, Robert S. Baker
Hargrave, Edwin Willard
Howe, Henry, P. M.
Hicks, Arthur W. Trenholme

Horgan, William
Hummel, James Clarence
Iversen, Soren, P. M.
Kingren, Jacob William
Lane, John Crosby, Sr., P. M.
Lane, John Crosby, Jr.
Lane, William Rufus
Litchfield, Frank
Lobree, Philip
Mahlman, William Theo.
Marsau, David Allen
Newfield, Aaron
0 'Brien, Chester Francis
Phelps, Forestes Purcevil
Philips, Guy Alonzo
Peterson, Chauncy Edward
Randall, Henry Joshua
Rasmussen, Martin
Redemeyer, Luther
Sandford, John Bunyon
Stronetta, Antone
Whelpton, Charles
Waltrous, Robert Winthrope
Williams, Richard Holbrooke
-49.

EVENING STAR LODGE, No. 186.
Etna Mills, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

CLAIBORNE LODGE, No. 185.
Point Arena, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pr°.. ceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Richard Taylor, Master,
Chester F. O'BPien, Seni'lr Deacon,
Richard H. Williams, Sen. Warden, Philip Lobree, Junior Deacon,
Elijah Bishop, Junior Warden,
Soren Iversen, Marshal,
John Clark, Treasurer,
Robert Hathaway, Steward,
Emmett P. Gillmore, Secr<.otary,
Joseph C. Halliday, Steward,
Antone Stronetta, Tyler.

OFFICERS:
Charles Jenner, Master,
Charles W. Nutting, Senior Deacon,
C. William Kist, Sen. Warden,
Orson V. Green, Junior Deacon,
Ed. Munroe Hall, Jun. Warden,
Alexander Parker, Jr., Marshal,
Fred George Smith, Treasurer,
Hans Hansen, Steward,
Martin Marx, Secretary,
Walter Isaacs, Steward,
Robert Pey Taylor, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
A.dams, John Howe, P. M.
Benson, John
Baird, Charles
Benson, Oscar Leonard
Barandun, Simon
·Billings, Edward Lawrence
Bathurst, Enwin William, P. M.
Dannenbrink, Henry

ROSTER.

218
Diggles, James Alden
Geney, Henry Ferdinand, P. M.
Green, Orson Valentine, P. M.
Haines, William Homer
Hall, Edward Monroe
Hansen, Hans
Hughes, James Robert
Hughes, John Striker
Hughes, Lewis
Isaacs, Walter
Jenner, Charles
Kist, Charles William, P. M.
Marx, Martin, P . M.
McBride, John Wallace, P. M.
Mes8ner, John Frederick

ROSTER.

Messner, John Martin
Mitchell, George Henry, P. M.
Nutting, Charles Wilber, P. G .M.
Parker, Al11x., Jr., P. M.
Parker, John
Rostetter, George
Smith, Fred George, P. M.
Spooner, George Cummings, P. M.
Swain, William Cartwrigh~
Taylor, Robert ;I'ey
Traverse, John
Wallis, Albert
.Wilson, Lucius Stafford
Wilso:r;i., Lucius Stafford, Jr.

-37.

KEITH LODGE, No. 187.
Giiloy, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, W edne11day of or neit preceding Full ~oon.
OFFICERS:
James Clair Patison, Master,
Edwin J. Bryant, Senior Deacon,
Henry Heoker, Senior Warden,
Jas. Henry Wright, Junior Dea~on,
Harry Lee Wild, Junior Warden,
Carlon Russel Willson, Marshal,
George A. Wentz, Treasurer,
August Gubsen, Steward,
Benjamin Barshinger, Secretary,
George Alfred Chappell, Steward,
Charles Pierce Weldon, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Babb, Silas Gratton
Davis, John M.
Barshwgh, Benjamin
Darrough, Thomas, P. M.
Bernett, Edwin Joseph, P. M.
Dunlap, George Thomas
Earl, George Wheeler
Bigley, William Henry
Blair, William .G rant
Einfalt, John Michael, P. M.
Bradley, John Harrison
Emler, Clement Henry
Brem, Itichard
Farmer, Edward Henry
Bryant, Edwin Jackson, P. M.
Gubsen, August
Burr, Daniel, Jr.
Haydock, William Henry, P. M.
Campbell, Archibald
Hecker, Henry, P. M.
Chesbro, Heverlnnd Rogers
Hellstrom, Carl Axel
Chappell, George Alfred
Keith, John Mathew, P. M.
Clark, Jonas
Keaton, George
Cordes, Paul Henry
Kilpatrick, Samuel Willium
Crawford, Edward Darrell
Leeper, William Clark

Lewis, James William
Lennon, Mark
Lewis, George Martin
Linnell, Allen Sylvester
Martin, Albion Alonzo
Martin, John Henry
McCoy, Arthur Howard
McDuffee, Henry Lynn
McQuilkin, Eaton Rush
Miner, John Franklin
Morey, Harvey Chapin, P. M.
Moore, Samuel Thomas, P. J.14,
Moore, Oscar Thomas
Moore, Walter Scott, P. M.
Moun~, Malcolm
• Myers, James Henry
Onyon, Fred Gage
Parmelee, Phinias Ward
Patison, James Clark
Peterson, Frederick
Percy, William J.
Phelps, William
Porter, Walter Sherman
Pratt, Charles Francis
Pyle, Darius Mack
Pyle, William Robert
Rea, James William
Rea, George Elmer
Rea, Samuel

219

Reither, Jacob
Rice, Marshall
Robertson, Robert Neilson
Rohnert, Waldo
Sargent, James Alex.
Scott, Joe Cowhick
Skillicorn, George Edward, P. M.
Smith, James
Smith, Sidney Henry
Springett, Roland
Stani..t;ord, Frank Chester
Swope, Edwin
Thomas, Rowley Montague
Thomas, Elmer Reynolds
Tryon, Ambrose Bruen
Wagner, Harry
Watson, Alex.
·Wardell, Benjamin AilguRtus
Weldon, Charles Pierce, P. M.
Wentz, George Adam
Weaver, Clarence Roy, P. M.
White, George Charles
Willey, Howard
Wild, Harry Lee
Wild, William Bradford
Wolfrom, Adam
Wright, James Henry
Zuck, James Ralph
-87.

OAKLAND LODGE, Ne. 188.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month
OFFICERS:
Charles Edwin Keyes, Master,
Wm. Samuel McMurtry, Sen. Deac.,
Jas. H._ McLaJferty, Ben. Warden, Thos. Irving Miller, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Isadore MacDonald, Jun. War., Talisien Evans, Marshal,
Edwin Nelson Walter, Treasurer,
Harry Benner, Steward,
Alvah Kittredge Clark, Secretary, George Edward Perkins, Steward,
Wm. Delaware Smith, Chaplain,
Hall Bergin Rand, Tyler.

220

Abell, John Jacob
Adams, Frank Samu~l
Alexander, George Washington
Anderson, William Wilson
Antonelli, Joseph S.
Badger, Thoma!! Norman
Baker, Alfred Septimus
Barnard, Charles Sumner
Bassford, John William
Batchelder, William Frank
Beck, Alders Clark
Begley, Burr Harrison
Belcher, Gilbert Luke
Bell, Harmon
Benner, Harry
Bennett, Henry Thomas
Benjamin, Edward Hewlett
Betts, William Michael
Bixby, Levi Samuel
Black, Joseph
Blake, William Willard
Blethen, James Edward
Boggs, Edward Marshall
Bones, Samuel West
Booth, Lucius Anson
Borland, Archibald
Bowen, Pardon Mason, Jr.
Brabban, Dixon
Bradford, Alonzo Sylvester
Braun, Francis Ami
Braun, Clarence Thomas
Bradshaw, Thomas
Brayton, Edward Lacey
Breed, Herbert .uincoln
Breed, Arthur Hastings
Brigham, Frank Eugene
Brigman, Martin
Britton, John Alex., P. M.
Britton, Van Leer Eastland
Broadwell, Melvin Luther
Brown, Albert
Browne, Henry Robinson
Bruce, Samuel James
Bruml, Oscar Charles
Bruns, John Christian Conrad

ROST~.

MEMBERS:
Buckley, Milton
Burgess, George Waldo
Burpee, Joseph Solomon
Burpee, Lester Glenn
Burns, John William
Burrell, Alfred William
Burtchaell, George Thomas
Button, l''red Lawrence, P. M.
Cantin, Augustus Samuel
Carl, Charles Frederick
Carpenter, Tom
Chamberlain, Nelson H.
Child, Edw!!-rd
Clark, Alvah Kittredge, P. M.
Clark, Charles Edward
Clark, 'Yilliam G.
Clay, Isham Harrison
Clift, Frederick Charles
Cole, Charles Finney
Cole, Walter Hill
Collins, David Edward
Coleman, Silas Ellsworth
Concanon, William Newton
Congdon, Ernest Niles
Connor, William Alfred Hopkins
Corder, Arthur Elmer
Corrigan, John Sinclair
Crafts, Henry Gray
Craig, William Henry
Craig, Albert William
Creed, Wigginton Ellis
Crellin, Thomas
Crist, Frederick George
Curtis, Bert Leonard
Cushman, Edwin Burke
Dalziel, Robert
Daniels, Gilbert Barber, P. M.
Davie, John Leslie
Davis, William Rude
Dawson, Charles Wesley
Degen, Ludolph Phillip
DeGolia, George Ellis
De la Montanya, Mathew
De la Montanya, Harry O.
Dick, Byron Coleman

ROSTER.
Dingee, William Jackson
Dunn, Alex.
Dunne, John Carlos
Dunning, William Beatty
Dusinbury, Myron Thompson
Du Val, William Moyland
Dyer, James Hamden, P. M. ·
Eadie, John
Eadon, Moses, P. M.
Eadon, William Henry
Earle, Guy Chaffee
Eber, George
Eber, John William
Edwards, Ambrose Frederick
Emery, Joseph Stickney
Erdman, Ludwig
Evans, Thomas Daniel
Evans, Talisien
Everson, Wallace
Fairchild, Judd Hobart
Finkeldey, William Henry
Finkeldey, Edward John
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Fish, James
Fitzpatrick, Frank Emmett
Folte, Gustave Julius Oswald
Fortin, Damiens Edmont
Fowler, Douglass Thomas
Fox, George Willard
Fraser, Hugh
French, Asa Telford
Freidlander, Marcus
Friend, William Hovey
Frost, William Edmond
Gage, George Guilford
Gage, Stephen Thornton
Gallagher, James Joseph
Gause, Charles William
Gaylord, Robert Brainerd, P. M.
Gifford, William M.
Gilman, Samuel Meiggs
Graham, Charles Kinaird
Gray, Albert Warren
Gray, Roscoe Spaulding
Greenwo·o d, Frank Munroe
Grismore, John Thomas

Grover, William Sherwood
Gunn, Adam Francis
Gurnett, William James, P. M.
Hackett, Samuel Allston
Hammer, George
Handy, Brayton Everington
Handy, Lucius Harvey
Hansen, Charles John
Harris, Don Frederick
Hawkett, Arthur Wellington
Hayes, John Ferdinand
Heaver, Walter
Henderson, John Henry
Henshaw, Tyler
Heron, Ernest Alvah
Hermle, William Adam
H ewes, Charles Leslie
Hewes, .Charles W eslie
High, William Henderson, Jr.
Hill, John Augustus
Hill, Robert Lewis, Sr.
Hill, Robert Lewis, Jr.
Hildebrand, Raymond Cecil
Hobbs, Clarence Leavitt
Hoffman, Charles Frederick
Houts, Wallace Alfred
Howard, John L.
Howden, Robert
Howie, Thomas
Hubbard, Bert Sheridan
Hughes, William
Humphrey, Morton
Humphrey, George Wallis
Hunt, Symmes Harrison
Hunt, Thomas Edward
Hyde, Wallace Edward
Ingraham, John Standish
Irish, Spencer Kline
Irving, Charles Edward
Ismon; George Henry
Jackson, Francis Frederick
Jackson, George Edgar
Jasper, Oscar Wood
Jennie, Theodore Jacob
Jillson, Charles Brooks
Johnson, Andrew

221

.·

222
Johnson, Charles Emile
Johnson, Elis Crowell
Johnson, Gunst
Jonas, Abraham
Jones, Richard
Joy, Thadeus Robinson
Judie, Benjamin L.
Keith, Arthur Raymond
Kinsman, Richard
Keyes, Charles Edwin
Kirby, Henry Harrison
Knowles, Edwin Irving
Kohler, William, Jr.
Koser, Newton Alexander
Laidlaw, Frank
Lamar, Henry Everett
Lathrop, Solomon
Lawrence, John
Laymance, Millard Josephus
Lea, Frederick John
Leckie, Robert Stevenson
Leet, Lewis Cass
Lehnhardt, Emil
Lindsay, Thomas
Lovett, Alvah Eugene
Lowden, William Heron
Lutkey, Charles Henry
Macdonald, John Archibald C.
Macdonald, William Isadore
MacLafferty, James ][enry, Sr.
Maclise, James
Martens, D. Richard
Martin, Neils M.
Mayon, James Lenox
Meade; George Frederick
McCully, Judson
McGowan, Charles Mastersen
McGrew, Henry Gra.nt
McLeod, John Campbell
McClure, James Thomas
McMurtry, William Sam11el
Mengel, Charles Peter
Merritt, Isaac Newton
Merritt, Albert Humphrey
Merritt, James .lill'stor, P. M.
Miller, Charles William ,Ttiachim

ROSTER.
Miller, Frank Thomas
Miller, Robert Willis
Miller, William Henry
Miller, William Noble
Miller, Thomas Irvine
Morgan, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Morry, Nichola11
Mohr, Henry
Mohr, l!enry Cornelius
Morse, Fred Wellington
Mock, Theo. Freylinghuysen, P. M.
Moss, David
Muller, Jacob
Muller, John Peter
Munsell, James Roy
Munson, Arthur King
Naismith, James Semple
Nash, Alfred Edward
Neff, Myron Dilbert
Nelle, William
Nelle, Hans William
Nelle, Harry Willard
Neighbor, Robert Webster
Neilsen, Christian Severin'
North, Hart Hyatt
Nourse, Stephen Henry
Ogden, Fred Roderick
Osgood, Ernest J.
Ott, Charles Frederic:k, P. M.
Parcells, Charles Edward
Pardee, George Cooper, P. M.
Parry, Thomas Hendry
Paterson, George Wannon
Patterson, John Alexander
Pearce, Webb Nicholsen
Pearce, Edward Hugernin
Perkins, George Clement, P. G. M.
Perkins, George Edward
Perry, Andrew John
Perry, Joseph Joshua
Perry, Henry Lee
Phelps, Nelson Dwight
Pierce, Edward
n;_f'rce, William Frank, P. M.
T»olf'. Charles Oscar
Powell, Howell Aubrey, P . M .

ROSTER.
Pratt, Abner Harlow
Proctor, Richard Ernest
Pulcifer, Henry Willis
Rand, Hall Bergin
Randall, Charles Wells
Ransome, Ernest Leslie
Rattray, Joseph
Redding, Albert Putnam
Reed, James Gilbert
Roach, James Vincent
Roberts, Jesse Sanford
Rodolph, Francis Bequette
Roeth, Charles
Rogers, Cecil D.
Rosenberg, · Nathan
Ross, John Mimmo
Rossier, Charles Augustu'3
Rowe, Albert
Rutherford, Charles Boardman
Sagehorn, William Deidri<'h
Sagehorn, Henry Albert
Samuels, Herbert Joshua
Sause, Clifton ,Archibald
Searles, Mailler
Schulthis, Charles Fred
Schaackey, John Daniel
Schachtebeck, Christian Lewis
Scott, Andrew Lowndes
Seybolt, George Lewis
Shankland, Thomas Clinton
Sherman, Edwin Allen
Shortill, Walter
Simpson, Joseph H.
Slater, Urotes Mayer
Smith, Albert Lippitt
Smith, Andrew Derby
Smith, Guy ·Cummings
Smith, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, John Frederick
Smith, Le Roy
Smith, Sumner Stewart
Smith, William Clay
Smith, William Delaware
Smith, William Bailey
Smith, Horace Edwin
Smilie, .Tames Alexander

Soderberg-, Carl Fred
Souter, John Souter
Southwell, Frank Lyman
Spangler, Emmons Rutledge
Spangler, Lawrence Alfred
Spaulding, Nathan Wal'.er
Spence, Aaron Tindle
Stafford, Walter Alfred
Stone, Louis Stanwood
St. Pierre, Gt!orge
Stromberg, John Warren
Sturgis, Frank :Fannillt,
Sturgis, Frank Foster
Swanberg, Eric
Swanson, Charles
Taft, Henry Clay
Tate, Samuel Patton
Tashiera, Lewis
Tayler, Samuel Johnsoll, .r:>. M.
Trepp, Jeff Everson
Thomas, Hayward Glazier
Tiehnor, Daniel
Todd, James Hamilton
Towle, John Francis
Treadwell, John Bartlett
Trower, Frank· Whitaker
Turner, John
Upton, Mylon William
Van Court, Eugene Salter
VanEmden, August Emi1E·
Van Schaick, D'Ehnry Sylvan
Vidy, James Gabriel Powers
Von Hirsch, Sementi Julius
Voorhees, Fred Duane
W ache, Harold
Waldron, Vernon
Walker, Wilber, ST.
Walker, Wilber, .Tr.
Walter, Edwin N,;hou
Walter, Charles Nel9on, P. M.
Walton, Jesse, P. M.
Watte, Charles
Ward, Eobert
Warren, John Chester
Watlington, Abraham Lincoln
Waterhouse, Charles John

223

ROSTER.

224
Watson, Franklin Greenville
Watson, Harry Elmer
Webb, Arthur James
W eilbye, William Hansen
Weill, Eugene
Weill, Armand
Westlake, Benjamin Franklin.
Wharton, Henry Edw11rd
White, James Stevens
Wilberg, Ernest Nichol!!."
Wibox, Walter Cary
Willard, George Albc.,.t, Sr.
Williams, f1hampion
Will!·ros, John

ROSTER.

Wil1:am<1, John EdwarJ
Williams, Robert Neal
Williamson, W. Forsythe, P. M.
Williamson, Hazard Snowden
Wilson, Adelbert
Wilson, William
Wise, Melvin
Wise, Raphael
Wixon, Julius Stanton
Wood, Hart
York, Charles Banon
Young, Julius Alexander
Zeigler, Andrew M. Theo.

Ross, Albert Frederick, .P. M.
Ross, Harold Milton, P. M.
Simpson, Thomas Jefferson
Smith, Louis Clarence
Smith, Samuel Gaston, P. M.
Smith; William Atkin, P. M.
Sorenson, Samuel
Taylor, Georg~ Frederick
Taylor, Harvey Edward

-393 ·

225

Taylor, Lewis Walter
Thatcher, George Wash., P. M.
Thatcher, Alexander
Thatcher, Ezekiel Thomas
Thatcher, Mark Carr
Wagoner, William Gusham
Winsell, James Fletcher, P. M.
Webb, Abrah!f:m Lincoln
Witherow, Samuel Newton
-48

MARIN LODGE, No.

191.

San Rafael, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

NORTHERN LIGHT LODGE, No. 1qo.
Millville, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings,. second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
0

William G. Wagoner, Master
Geo. Fred'k Taylor, Sen. Deacon,
Freaerick Dersch, Scin. Warden, Alva McBroom, Sr., Jun..D!!acon,
John Ray Hathaway, Jun. Warden, William Adkin Smith, Marshal,
Louis Clarence Smith, Treasurer,
Leonard Timothy Benton, Steward,
Harold Milton Ross, Secretary,
George Thomas Middleton, Steward,
George Wash. Thatcher, Chaplain, Jacob Daniel Overmyer, Tyler.
Atkins, Benjamin Wilberforce
Baker, Lewis Edward
Bass, Herbert
Bateman, Charles Edgar
Benton, Leonard Timothy
Brown, Frank Leroy
Culter, Henry Hill
Crafford, James ·
Dirsch, Frederick, P. M.
Dunham, Joseph Albee, P. M.
Dunham, Almond Nathamel
Eldred, Stephen James
Hackler, Francis Marion
Hathaway, John Ray
Heryford, Henry Wilson

MEMBERS:
Hurst, Ferdinand
Koehler, Frank William .
Lippoldt, Herman August
Lewis, Gharles Henry
Martin, Henry Lee
McBroom, Alva
Messinger, Edward Otis
Middleton, George Thomas
Ogburn, John William
Overmyer, Jacob Daniel
Rathbun, William H. Harrison
Rathbun, Merritt Dempsy
Rawlings, Levi Petit
Rawlings, Erastus Edward, P. M.
Rock, Samuel Oliver

OFFICERS:
Henry Greer, Master,
Henry M:. Hansen, Senior Deacon,
Carson C. Hansen, Senior Warden, William P. Murray, Junior Deacon
William E. Robertson, Jun. Warden, Alfred B. Cooper, Marshal,
'
Samuel M. Augustine, Treasurer,
Raymond I. Shaver Steward
George G. Vanderlip, Secretary,
Carl R. Schmidt, Steward, '
Richard C. Jones, Chaplain,
Valentine Gulde, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, William Henderson
Buck Walter Ehlers
Adams, Walter Miller
Byrne, .James Douglass
Alexander, Thomas Newton
Carpenter, Edward Samuel
Anderson, William N., P . M.
Carlile, Charles Edgar
Angellotti, Frank Marion, P.G.M. Ghristensen, Charles
Augustine, Samuel Miller
Christoffersen, Hans Christian
Barr, Robert Joseph
Claussen, Peter Heinrich C.
Barr, William
Codoni, Guiseppe Abbondio
Barr, Thomas Ira Cook
Codoni, Silvio Celesto
Bennett, John Donovan
Collins, Samuel Wilson
Bent, Wilson Dexter
Cooper, Alfred Bertrand
Berry, Fred Leslie
Corbaley, William Gladden
Bettancurt, .John Enos
Davidson, James B.
Becker, Victor Frederick
Davis, Robert James
Birlem, Frederick William
Dickson, Robert Edwin
Bogle, Eugene Edwin
Dickson, Frederick William
Bonneau, Thomas Siah, P . M.
Dodge, George Andrew
Boole, William Augustus
Dollar, Robert
Brown, Will Walker
Dollar, Alexander Melville
Brunthaver, Frank Peter
Donohoe, Denis
15

.

226
Doody, Michael Chic
DuBois, Charles Hall
DuBois, Ernest Blois
Dunbar, Louis Lane
Duncan, David, P. M.
Elliott, William, P. M.
Elliott, Thomas
Ellison, Charles Eugen,e
Fish, Charles Hull
Furlong, Robert, P. M.
Gulde, Valentine
Gustafsan, Charles
Gilbert, Lee Lawson
Gilmore, Clyde Phillip
Grier, Henry Elijah
Green, Thomas Blair
Hansen, George Carsob
Hansen, Carson Christopher
Hansen, Henry Marius
Healy, Frank Jewell
Heilfron, Bernhard
Jepson, Henry
Jones, W. Farrington, P. M.
Jacobs, Francis John
Jones, Richard Clarence, P. M.
. Jones, Herbert Ellis
Kaneen, John Stephen
Knittel, Henry
Kuser, John Henry
Kaempff, Charles William
Keffer, Guy Vickrey
Kendrick, George Freem:m
Kirk, ·Andrew
Kierulff, George Dudley
King, William Joseph
Lauck, Joseph Benjamin
Lauff, Oscar Bengua
Lepoids, Paul Emile
Lichtenberg, Rudolph George
MacKinnon, Duncan
Mason, George
Magnes, Robert
Marshall, William
McLean, James Thomas
Meyer, Henry Bernhard
Millan, George Barnes

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Murray, George, P. M.
Murray, William Paul
Murray, Fred
Muscio, Dante Rogers
Nelson, Edgar Burton
Nelson, Walter Shippee
Nelson, John
Olmsted, Stephen Horati'>, P . M .
Parkin, John
Pfaff, Louis
Petersen, Peter Henry
Pitcher, Jay Clifford
Powers, George Herman
Porcella, Stephen
Prescott, Raymond Franklin
Reinhold, Peter William
Rice, William Ackerman
Richards, John
Robertson, William Edward
Rodden, George Frederick, P. M .
Rudolff, Herman Hart Fred
Saunders, John Algeo
Sawyer, Fred Earl
Schlosser, Henry
Schluter, Henry Arnold
Schmidt, Carl Richard
Sharp, William Fuller
Shaver, Charles Bird
Shaver, Raymond Isaac
Sherer, Rex William
Skinner, Wilber DeEsting
Silveira, Felix Augusto
Simpton, Frank Georg~
Spencer, Harry
Stipp, Logun
Strong, Edward Beebe
Studley, Benjamin Wendell, P. M.
Sweetser, Fred Wiley
Taylor, James Irving
Taylor, Will Penfield
Taylor, Samuel Penfield
Vanderlip, George Gore
Warden, Russell Harvey, P. M.
Warden, Leslie Edwin
Weigel, Samuel Mann
-Whaley, Thomas Joseph

Wilkins, James Hepburn
Williams, Peter
Winberg, Per

227

Woodward, Archimedes Bucknor
Wreden, Carl von

SANTA BARBARA LODGE, .No.

-137

192.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next succeeding Full Moo!!.
OFFICERS:
Winfield Bradbury Metc'l.lf, Master, Anthony W. Dozier, Sen. Deacon,
John Neal Pyster, Senior Warden:, Frank P. Smart, Junior Deacon,
Mervin C. Faulding, Jun. Warden, Chauncey E. Webster, Marshal,
Joseph McC. Garretson, Treasurer, Joseph 0. Eaton, StewarJ,
Charles Oscar Garretson, Sec.,
William S. Gerow, Steward,
William C. Merrill, Chaplain,
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Almy, Ira
Eddleman, Jacob Joshua, P. M.
Alves, John Joseph
Ellery, Henry
Barker, James Lawrence
Emigh, Frank Edward
Baylies, Frederick Henry
Faber, George
Bliss, Wilbur F.
Fairbanks, Charles Devin, P . M.
Boeseke, Albert
Faulding, Mervin Coulter
Bowen, Richard Alfred
Findlay, James
Brassfield, William Leon&rd
Forrester, William Lucien
Breslauer, Theodore Mattews
Fulton, Robert
Garland, Thomas
Brown, Joseph H.
Burson, Joseph H.
Garretson, Joseph McCullough
Burson, Arthur Edward
Garretson, Charles Oscar, P. M.
Burton, William Waples
George, Edgar Sherman
Casebeer, Joseph Wilson
Gerow, William Sperry
CitZler, Bernard
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Cornwall, Thomas
Grant, Alexander Charles
Cornwall, James Tod
Grant, William Richard
Curran, Joseph Pierce
Hardy, Albert Perham, P. M.
Daniels, Thomas Payne
Harrington, John Kennedy, P. M.
Dawe, George
Hayman, Fred
Dodge, Edward Gardner, P . M.
Higgins, Phineas Clark
Dorrance, William Friend, P. M.
Hiller, John N., P. M.
Dozier, Anthony White
Hiller, John Roy
Dunshee, Rollin, P. M.
Hixon, George Clinton
Hoel, William Wallace
Eaton, Joseph Osborn, P. M.
Hollcy, Jackson Robert
Edmondson, Alfred Robert

ROSTER.

228

ROSTER.
Humphrey, George Walker
Jacobs, James Harvey
Jones, Rufus Thomas
Kilgore, Moat Molden
Knight, Clarence Crosby, P. M.
Lory, Eugene Aime
Loveday, Claude
MacLeod, John Alexander
Manchester, Samuel, P. lVI.
Mason, Stanley Cordell
McAvoy, James Milton
McDonald, Duncan
Merrill, William Cross
Metcalf, Winfield Bradbury
Moore, Ellis Passmore
Moore, Peter Louis
Moraga, Jose Gabriel
Moraga, Juventino
Morse, William Henry
Moyer, Daniel
Nelson, James Miles
Neyhart, Perry. Herbert
Olmstead, Stephen Hart
Ott, Adam
Paddock, Edgar Luzern
Pierce, Wheeler William
Potter, Albert Webster
Pyster, John Neal
Raffour, Louis

Rasey, Charles William
Rickman, Charles
Ross, James
Rowley, Charles Harvey, P. M.
Schuster, Augustus Carl, P. M.
Smart, Joseph Frederick
Stnart, Frank Preston
Smith, Frank Burton
Smith, Elmer Leonard
Squier, William Brasted
Squier, Oliver Perry, P. M.
Squier, Eugene Wesley, P. M.
Stewart, Robert Carlyle
Taggart, James Wiliiam
Taylor, Arthur Wilson
Taylor, John Brutus
Taylor, John Lewis
Tebbetts, George Parish
Thompson, William Hundley
Trace, Robert Bradley
Warnekros, William Louis
Waters, William Gardnn
Webster, Chauncey Elemud
Wells, Peter Caffin
Williams, Alfred Bascom
Williams, David C.
Wilson, Albert Calhoun Joseph.
Wilson, William Arthur, P. M.
-109

FERNDALE LODGE, No. 193.
Ferndale, Humboldt County.
Stated ·Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
"OFFICERS:
Albert Maurice Dinsmore, Master,
Robert H. Smith, s. nior Warden,
Silas V. Morrison, Junior Warden,
Frank Nissen Rasmussen, Treas.,
John Ericsson Gries, Se<:\retary, .
W. Taylor Douglass, Chaplain,

Preston Ray Burris, Senior Deacon,
Jas. Frederick Bartlett, Jun. Deaeon,
Elbridge C. Damon, Marshal,
Hans C. Christiansen, Steward,
James Davis Rogers, Steward,
Edwin Varley, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Alford, Charles Clyde
Miner, Cyrus William
Alford, William Brazzilia
Moore, Charles William
Barne.s, Isaac Bloomfield
Morri~on, Lafayette
Barney, William Edward
Morrison, Silas V.
Benson, Hans Madson
Morrison, Silas William
Beck, Peter
Muller, John Gottlieb
Blakemore, John Ward
Nelson, Martin
Bowen, John Murry
Patrick, Zelotus Bingham
Branstetter, Walter Grant
Pierson, Edward Augustus, P. M.
1Burris, Preston Ray
.Pollard, John Thompson
Caltoft, Harry
Price, Isaac
Capwell, Charles Henry
Price, George Alexander
Carr, Edward Baker
Rasmussen, Jacob
Church, Walter Merton
Rasmussen, Frank Nissen, P. M.
Comisto, Silva
Rackliff, Charles Clark
Christiansen, Hans Christian
Ring, Hogan J.
Damon, Elbridge Cham., P. M.
Rogers, James Davis
Devinney, James Mark
Roberts, Elis Richard
Dinsmore, Albert Maurice
Russ, Ira Alonzo, P. M.
Doe, Charles Albion
Russ, William Nehemiah
Douglass, William Taylor
Samuels, William
Edwards, Ray Henry, P. M.
Samuels, William Martin
Ericksen, Leven Christian, P. M.
Samuels, Henry Charles
Feenaty, Rollin Stanton
Schreiner, Charles Theodore
Flowers, Frank B.
Scott, Ira Lewis
Foster, John Edm.on P. M.
Siples, Louis Justin
Francis, Decimo App
Shaw, Joseph Armitage, P. M.
Fulmor, Mark Andrew
Sni.ith, James
Fulmor, Smith
Smith, Lucus Miles
Goff, James Henry .
Smith, George Peabody, P. M.
Hall, Thomas Jefferson
Smith, Robert Hunter
Hart, Smith Clark
Snowden, Isaac Wayne
Hansen, Henry August
Stillings, David
Hicks, Leonard Salmon
• Stone, L.ouis John
Hindley, George
Sweet, George William
Hurlburtt, Harry Ellsworth
Tooby, Ernest Norton
lnskip, Philip Seward, P. M.
Trost, John Henry, P. M.
Kemp, John Wellington
Varley, Edwin
Keohan, Alfred
Waddington, Alexander
King, John Russell
Whittier, Oscar Dunnreath, P. M.
Lytle, Edward B.
Williams, Frank George, P. M.
MacLennan, Molcolm C.
Williams, Charles Henry, P. M.
Michael, Lusher
Williams, Richard Rolan;l, P. M.
Miller, Austin Vicense
Wing, George
Miner, Leander Haskins
-89

229

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MOUNTAIN VIEW LODGE, ·No. 19<1 •.

BUCKEYE LODGE, No. 195.

Mountain View, Santa Clara C_o unty.

Winters, Yolo County.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

· Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Houkan Trulsen, Master,
Edward T. Johnson, Sen. Deacon,
Rudolph Muender, Senior Warden, Frederick L. Peterson, Jun. Deacon,
W. Armstrong Clark, Jun. Warden, .Alvin Pride Rogers, Marshal,
Madison M. Kleckner, Treasurer,
Franklin L. Rathburn, Steward,
Cyrus P. Berry, Secretary,
James Showers, Steward,
Cassimir S. Baggi, Tyler.

Lewis Arthur Sackett, Master,
Joseph Rains Griffin, Senior' Deacon,
Fred Walter Wilson, Senior Warden, John Murray Goodyear, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Roy Brinck, Junior Warden, Wilbur Sims, Marshal,
Daniel Huston Waughtel, Treas.,
James Benjamin Griffin Steward1
William Samuel Baker, Secretary, Alexander Ritchie Ste.;_ard
'
'
Charles Henry Wolfe, Tyler.

230

MEMBERS:
Kircher, John Charles
Ackley, Harry Milton
Ackley, William A.
Kleckner, Madison Monroe
Anderson, William Austin
LaPiere, George Warren
Meyer, William Daniel
Ames, George J.
Baggi, Casimir Scossa
Mockbee, Jacob S.
Morgan, Oscar Crellin, P. M.
Bateman, David Taylor, P. M.
Berry, Cyrus Phillrick, P . M.
Muender, Rudolph
Mudge, Robert Simpson
Becker, Oswald
Osborne, Clyde Hull
Cadwell, Richard Grant
Owen, Herbert
Cutter, John Jay
Orr, William Alexander
Clark, Walter Armstrong
Peterson, Frederick Lawrence
Charleston, John B.
Rathburn, Franklin LaRue
Dexter, Andrew Jackson
Rengstorff, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Ducray, Frank Justin
Ehrhorn, Edward McFarland, P. M. Rogers, Arthur Blake, P. M.
Ehrhorn, Charles Horatio
Rogers, Alvin Pride, P. M.
Emerson, Edwin Lester
Showers, James
Emerson, Frank Lincoln
Stevens, Marcus Harloe
.Fishman, Ely Louis
Swall, Lester George
_F oss, William F. Farrington, P. M. Swall, George
1ait, Magnus
Foss, Elmer Edwin
Frink, Daniel Benjamin
Towne, Peter
Frink, Louis Hitchcock
Trulsen, Houkan, P. M.
Frink, Lester Daniel
Walker, John William
GordoB, George Clarence
W eilheimer, Henry
Greenlaw, William Everett
Weilheimer, Julius
Hanson, Nelson J orgen
Whitmore, William Austin, P. M.
Hushbeck, Harry
Whitmore, Benjamin Franklin
-57
Johnson, Edward Thompson

MEMBERS:
Aitken, Perley Johnson, P. M.
Hutchens, George Washington
Allen, Oliver Herbert
Ireland, Elias
Baker, William Samuel
!sh, Arthur Baldridge, P. M.
Baker, Irwin William
Maxwell, James Oliver
Bassett, Willis Harris
McFall, Theodore E.
Boyce, Hamilton Guy
McN eal, Frank
Bray, Lee Roy
McQdddy, Thomas Smith
Briggs, James Richards
Moler, Clarence Raymond
Briggs, Robert Lee
Morrison, Robert
Brinck, August
Moler, John Frank
Brinck, Henry
Morris, Ebeneizer O.
Brinck, Henry Roy
Omsby, Martin Powell
Brinck, William
Owen, Frank Henri
Brinck, William Alber.t
Putzker, Ralph Waldo
Button, Henry Leslie
Raney, William Greenwood
Coleman, John Logan
Renfro, Lewis Clark
Crandall, George Alfred
Ritchie, Alexander
Crane, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Robinson, William Henry
Englehart, Clevin Edmonu
Robinson, Alfred A .
Gergory, William Henry, P. M.
Robinson, James
Germeshausen, William Emil
Rucker, Edward
Goodyear, John Murray
Rummelsburg, Jonas
Griffin, John Frank
Rumemlsburg, Simon
Griffin, James Benjamin
Sackett, Buel R.
Griffin, Joseph R.
Sackett, John Elwood, P. M.
Guthrie, Thomas Walter, P. M.
Sackett, Louis Arthur
Haas, Henry
Seeley, Mack Jay
Harling, Macajah Oglesby, P. M.
Seifeit, Otto Emil
Harlan, Joseph Ludwell, P. M.
Settle, Henry Clay
Heilig, Ir:win Winfield
Shearer, Levi
Hememvay, Fred Clyde
Sims, George
Hoy, Samuel M. H.
Sims, Wilbur

231

ROSTER.

232

Wilson, Frederick Walter
Wolfe, Charles' Henry
Wolfskill, Edward, P. M.
W olfskill, Frank
·wyatt, Marcus Oscar
Young, Walter B.

Smith, Charles Egbert
Solomon, Benjamin
Stinson, Alonzo L.
Taylor, Samuel
Warder, Shadwick Morris
Waughtel, Daniel Huston

ROSTER.

,
-76

SAN SIMEON LODGE, No. 196.
Cambria, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preeeding Full '1:oon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.
MEMBERS:
Arbuckle, James Smith, P. M.
Bradhoff, John Henry
Cass, Henry Kingdon
Cook, Alexander Stirling
Davidson, Samuel J.
Dawson, Byron Francis
Dodson, Ritner, P. M.
Eubanks, John Henry
Frankl, Adolph, P. M.
Gamboni, Fredrico
Guesa, Jasper P.
Hardie, Angus McPherson, P. M.
Kaetzel, Philip
Laloli, James
Luchessa, Antonio
Maggetti, Peter Lorenzo

Minor, Robert Andrew
Muma, Benjamin Franklin
Muma, Irwin Johnston
Murphy, Pliny Hayward, P. M.
Muscio, Abramo
Music, Ethelbert David
Paterson, Alexander, P. M.
Righetti, Francisco August
Righetti, Robert Marco
Righetti, Pompeo
Stewart, Jame~ Fackler
Tognazzini, Peter, P. M.
Van Gordan, Gilbert
Vanoni, Mark Antony
Watson, James William
-31

MEMBERS:
Biederman, J<~ranklin
Miller, William
Bond, Benjamin Franklin
Morris, Frederick William
Brilliap.t, Benjamin, P. M.
Multhrop, Willey Howard
Carey, ·George Joseph
Myer, Charles
Crook, Henry
Priestley, Herbert Ingram
Edilman, Benjamin W.
Savage, William Henry
Forsberg, Frederick
Schweizer, Frederick
Gannaway, Harry Easton, P. M.
Sjoberg, Charles James William
Hayes, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Smith, George Reed
Hayes, Victor William, P. M.
Sylva, Joseph Peny, Sr.
Jargstorff, Arthur Clark
Sylva, Joseph Peny, Jr
Jordan, John Norman
Sylva, Manuel Vienia
Kennedy, Silas Eli, P. M.
Talman, Edward W.
Koster, John August Mathias
Thomas, John S.
Marbut, Edgar Hume
Young, Andrew, P. M.
McCoy, Benton'
Warren, Robert Boyle
McCoy, Oscar
-33

HARTLEY LODGE, No. 199.
Lakeport, Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fun Moon.
OFFICERS:
Albert Milton Reynolds, Master,
Shafter Mathews, Senior Deacon,
Jos. Martin Church, Sen. Warden, Joseph Hyman, Junior Deacon,
Jonathan D. Monroe, Jun. Warden, Morton Smith Sayre, Marshal,
Willie E. Greene, Treasurer,
Aaron Levy, Steward,
Heber Byron, Churchill, Secretary, Blythe H. Henderson, Steward,
Harvey Tillman Schweers, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

WILMINGTON LODGE, No. 198.
Wilmington, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Silas Ely Kennedy, Senior Deacon,
Harry Easton Gannaway, Master,
H. Ingram Priestley, Sen. Warden, Benton McCoy, Junior Deacon,
Edgar Hume Marbut, Jun. Warden, John Lewis Vignes, Marshal,
Joseph Penry Sylva, Sr., Treasurer, Victor William Hayes, Steward,
Frederick Wm. Morris, Secretary, Arthur Clark Jargstorff, Steward,
John A. M. Koster, Tyler.
Thomas Benj. Hayes_, Chaplain,

233

Ackley, Charles Fremont
Appleton, John
Atherton, David Hooper
Banks, Jabez
Barnert., Charles
Barry, Robert Emit
Biggi, Angelo, P. M.
Boardman, Oscar Terry
Boggs, Lilburn Henry
Brown, James Humphrey
Brown, Henry Nathan

Brown, William Harrison
Brundige, Joseph Allen
Buchanan, Georg.e Valentine
Byrnes, John Warren
Carpenter, Ira Mahlon
Carpenter, Herbert
Chamblin, Marcus Richardson
Church, Joseph Martin
Churchill, Hebe.r Byron
Clemenson, Peder
Cockrell, Henry Bradley

ROSTER.

234

Collier, William Bell
Cordray, William Franklin
Craig, Joseph
Crawford, Woods, P. M.
Crump, John Gillion
Dailey, George Leonard
Deputy, Adison Hester
Deputy, Horace Edward
Edmundson, James Dave
Ells, Theodore
Fearn, Walter Henry
Fitzgerald, George Richmond
Foree, George Haynes
Gallino, George
Green, Arthur Willie
Greene, William Wood
Greene, Willis Elihue
Hay, James Arthur Bruce
Haycock, Charles William, P. M.
Hayter, Thomas Fletcher
Henderson; Lewis
Howard, Euvelle, P. M.
Howard, Elmo Faber
Henderson, Blythe Hendricks
Hyman, Joseph
Keatley, William Thomas
Keeling, Herbert Venn, P. M.
Kellogg, Clarence William, P. M.
Kelsey, John
.Kelsey, John Sidney
.uang, George August
League, James Neal

Levy, Aaron
Levy, Joseph
Levy, Samuel
f
Mathews, Shafter
McClure, John Frank, P. M.
Mcintire, David Floyd
McLean, Daniel
Meddaugh, Oscar Edson
Monroe, Curtis Jefferson, P. M.
Morrison, John William
Murdock, George Gwan
Myers, George Welton, P. M.
Monroe, Jonathan Daniel
Nicoll, David Cox
Olsen, Andrew Bullium
Rantz, William Dodridge
Reynolds, Alb.ert Milton
Rideout, Winslow ·Lester
Robinson, Don Alonzo
Sayre, Morton Smith, P. M.
Simmons, Leeson Gaskell
Shirley, Ethan Allen
Sleeper, Ed
Slocum, Willett
Smith, William Thomas
Sylar, Daniel Patton
Schweers, Harvey Tillmon
Storm, Greenberry Larkin
Voss, George Heinrich
White, David Edward
Williams, David
-85

TRUCKEE LODGE, No. 200.
Truckee, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Davidson Oliver, Master,
Leroy H. Stephens, Senior Deacon,
Charles Adam Ocker, Sen. Warden, Herbert Rowe, Junior Deacon,
Samuel R. Cupples, Junior Warden, Constante A. Nahl, Marshal,
Frank M. Rutherford, Treasurer,
George Ernest Rutherford, Steward,
Jacob Frederick Adolph, Sec.,
James L. Sharp, Steward,
Samuel William Albone, ( 'haplain, Samuel Parker, Tyler.

ROSTER.

Adolph, Jacob Frederick
Agnew, David
Albone, Samuel William
Balaban, Andro
Barton, Charles Henry, P. M.
Bird, James
Bliss, Charles Tobey
Bliss, George Russell
Bodkin, Frederick John
Booth, Mylo Albert
Burckhalter, Walter Marion
Carpenter, Harry Hancock
Carre. Charles Kehoe
Calkins, Willard Peck
Champion, Josiah
Gha.m pion, Francis
Coyan, George Ellsworth
Cupples, Samuel R.
Davies, Llewellyn
Delaney, John
Dolan, Jesse Casper
Doyle, Paul Maurice
Dunster, George William
Eveland, George Hamilton
Fay, John
Fleming, Charles Edgar
Flickinger, William Amb~rly
Franzini, Morris
Freeman, Edgar Daniel
Galbreath, Andrew Jackson
Giffen, George Washington
Giffen, Thomas Jefferson
Gowling, Joseph
Gordon, Peter Henry
Gracey, Robert Christian
Grant, George Hugh
Guise, Sidney Franklin
Harvey, Irving Francis, P. M.
Hill, William Henry, P. M.
Hilton, Joesph Dearborn, P. M.
Hilton, George William
Hirschler, Gustav David
Humphrey, Herbert George
Jacobs, Herman Hiram
Johnson, Martin G.

MEMBERS:
Koepke, Robert Charles
Kruger, Eugene
Lapoint, Leonce Francois
Leach, Daniel Walter
Lewison, Jacob Louis
Loofbourrow, Wade Jacob
Madison, Albert William
Mann, Arthur Royal
Martin, Henry Edwin
Marzen, Joseph, Jr., P. M.
Maxson, Jess Bob, Jr..
McCloskey, George Herbe1·t
McDonald, John Joseph
McGlashan, Chas. Fayettl', P. M.
McKay, Robert Gibson
McLellan, Charles Roderick, P. M.
McPhetres, Daniel, P. M.
Micander, John
Moody, Harris Lee
Moody, William
Muldoon, Francis James
Nahl, Constante A.
Neepage, John Gottholdt
Ocker, Charles Adam
Oliver, George Davidson
Ohland, Heinrich Fred. Ernest
Owens, Edward Llewellyn
Owen, Thomas Jefferson
Paris, Ellis Howard
Park, William, P. M .
Parker, Samuel, P. M.
Painter; Charles Franklin
Patterson, Seward Edgar
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Redmond, Samuel
Poole, Stephen Buchanan
Rabe, Augustus Louis
Rath, l!'rederick Robert
Richardson, Warren Vincent
Richardson, Warren
Rowe, Herbert
Rutherford, °Frank Mitchell, P. M.
Rutherford, Georg.e Ernest
Schneider, Peter Gottleib
Scofield, Norman Elias

285

•
ROSTER.
ROSTER.

236

Sharp, James L.
Shoemaker, David, P. M.
Shute, John William
Sherritt, John, P. M.
Siegel, Charles, P. M.
Smith, George Hutsel
Spaulding, William Rufus
Steen Nathaniel
Step~ens, Leroy Hamilton

Swain, Ellis Marion
Thomas, Charles
Welty, Ira Bennett
White Charles Browne
Wilki; William Ferdinand
Wilmo~h, H. Wellington, P. M.
Whitney, Thomas Byron
Young, Lemartin Wilson
-108
Young, John Russell

Richard, Charles Robert
Rice, John Henry, P. M.
Rice, Scott McCune
Rockwell, Myro·n Salsbury
Rogers, Thomas Gilbert
~ussell, Francis Evia
Schulze, Oscar Carl, P. M.
Schulze, Gustave D.
Schulze, Otto Theodor
Stephens, Robert Edmund Lee

Steinmiller, George
Sweany, John, P. M.
Smith, Leonard B.
Timm, Henry R.
Thompson, John Alex. Campbell
Ulsteen, John G.
Ulsteen, George
Uren, Thomas Henry
Wells, William Henry, P. M.
Wright, Oren
~C

PENTALPHA LODGE, No. 202.
SILVEYVILLE LODGE, No.

201.

Dixon, Solano County.
t
eceding Full Moon.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nex pr
OFFICERS:
Rowland Moss, Senior Deacon,
Harry McFadyen, Maste.r, Warden Stuart Grady, Junior Deacon,
Lester Parker Hall, Senior
' J h D Grady Marshal,
Rob. E. Lee Stephens, J un. Warden ' Mo n ·St Clair' Garnett, Rtewaru,
John Henry Rice, Treasurer,
G::::~e
Schulze, steward,
George Ulsteen, Secretary,
T 1
.John Alex. C. Thompson, y er.

D.

MEMBERS:
Hill Joseph Silver
Apperson, James Edwin, P. M.
J oh~son, John Dwinell
Baker, William
Kline, Joseph
Clarke Crawford Calvin
Kirby, Charles Martin, ~· M.
Curre;, Robert John, P._M.
Kelly, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Conner, George Sam~el
Little, George Arthur
Collier, Aubry Austin
Martin, John Brinckerh.iff
Downs, George McClellan
Martin James Philip
Eppinger, Herman, P. M.
Madde~, Wirefield Rightmire
Ettlinger, Bernhard
McBain, James Alvah
Garnett William Henry, P. M.
McCune, Henry Ewaldt
Garnett: Moscoe St. C~air
McCune, Joseph Henry, P. M.
Garnett, James St. Clair
McFadyen, Harry, P. M.
Gates, Thomas Milton
Moss, Rowland
Grady, John Devana, P. M.
Nudd, Elmer Ellsworth
Grady, Parke Edwin
Petersen, Jorden Henry
Grady, Stuart
Plummer, Charles Edward
Grove, John Calvin
Pritchard, Julian Peter
Grove, Henry Clay
Pedrick, William Stonem:m
Hall, Lester Parker
Ross, Albert Thomas
Hutton, Fred Albert

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Orville Devere Stone, Ma'lter,
John A. Brewer, Senior Deacon,
Herbert H. Clark, Senior Warden, Louis Otto Lieber, Junior Deacon,
Harry H Mayberry, Jun. Warden, Jesse Mccomas, Marshal
William Rhodes Hervey, ·rreas.,
Leander Levy, Steward,
William Whipple Robinson, Sec.
Isidore F. Whomes, Steward,
Horatio S. Mason, Chaplain,
Milton Cephas Fordham, Tyler.

Adams, Harold Charles
Adams, George Price
Adams, William
Allen, Herbert Smith
Allen, William Sayre
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Thomas
Anderson, William Felix
Anderson, William Wall ace
Andrews, Clair George
Armstrong, William Delano
Arnold, George Leonard
Astley, Charles, P. M.
Atchison, James Roberts
Atwell, Thomas
Atwood, Henry Clay
Averill, George Euward
Avery, Robert Henry
Aylesworth, Walter Eug,~ ne

237

MEMBERS:
Bair, Darius H.
Bacon, Frank William
Baker, Rouie Brown
Balch, Allen Christopher
Barber, William Marshall
Barclay, David Eric
Barlow, Allison
Barnes, Charles Porter
Barto, Fred Oliver
Barton, Herbert Parks
Baruch, Jacob, P. M.
Beattie, Robert Fountain
Beckett, Wesley Wilbur
BQhrens, Herman Albert
Belcher, Harry
Benbrook, Charles Mallart1
Bennett, Albert Alfred
Berner, Gustav Emanuel
Berner, John Bismark

238

ROSTER.

Best, John
Beschor, Gustavus William
Bethune, Joseph Daniel
Bicknell, John Dustin, P, M.
Blackwood, John Howard
Blake, Clarence Howard
Blake, Chades Wesley, P. M.
Blakeley, Harry Bowen
Blakeslee, George Andrews, P. M.
Blakeslee, Lyman Curtis
Blinn, Willis Nehemiah
Blossom, Edmund Wheadon
Blumoe, John Augustus
Bodman, Richard Stuart
Boothe, Charles Beach
Booth, Harry
Bortells, Frank Lily
Bosbyshell, Edward Christian
Boswell, Frank Moore
Botsford, William Finn
Bowen, Calvin Case
Bowers, Alex. Forrester Neill
Bradrick, George Marion
Breed, Levi Newton, P. M.
Brewer, John Aukeney
Brill, William
Brossmer, Sigmund
Brown, Asher Park, P. M.
Brown, Clement A., P. M.
Brown, Charles Henry, P. M.
Brown, John Alexander
Brown, Paul Clifford
Brown, Robert Rufus
Brummett, Simon Jones
Bulla, Robert Nelson
Burke, William Edward
Burns, John
Burns, John Appleyard
Burns, Thomas Walter
Burton, George Finley
Butler, Willard Wall
Calder, James Squair, P. M.
Calkins, John Summerfield, P. M.
Cason, Edward Woodburn
Caswell, William Mitchell
Chambers, Richard Henry

Chambers,. William Kirtlq
Champlin, Henry
Chase, Charles Wheeler
Chase, Horace W.
Chipron, Arthur Paul
Churchill, David Lawrence
Church, Stephen Hayes
Clark, Henry Graham
Clark, Herbert Hamilton
Clemens, Nicholas
Clement, William Arthur
Cline, Ross Carroll
Cobb, Edward Sigourney
Cochran, William George
Coddington, Fred Elmore
Coe, Edmund Wallace
Cocke, John Vinton
Coldwells, Joseph Arthur
Cole, Jerrett Water
Collins, Burton Vincent
Collom, Charles Dwight
Connett, Harry
Conrade, Simon
Cooper, Henry Hill
Copes, Jacob Marion
Cottle, Rainsford Ensor
Crawford, James Seth
Cridland, Edwin Louis
Cunningham, Robert GilrnCJre
Currier, Ezra Newton
Cuzner, James
Davies, John Roland
Day, Barnabas W.
Day, George William
DeCamp, Clarence Eastman
Dessery, Hypolite Louis
Devins, Charles Alonzo
Deyoe, Fred Theodore
Dezell, James
Diamond, Charles Boardman
Dibble, Harry Edward
Dietsch, Curt Oscar
Dilly, Louis
Donnell, John Alex., P. M.
D:>wnie, William
Dryt. rn, Henry Francis

ROSTER.

•

Duncan, Hugh Welch
Dunsmoor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Dunsmoor, Cylos Taylor
Eagon, Henry Charles
Earl, Edwin Tobias
Eberle, Franz Xaver
Eckley, Frank Knight
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Edwards, David Kitzmiller
Eldridge, Septimus Tustin
Ellis, Morris
Engle, William Henry·
Enyeart, Clarence DeRuyter
Erwin, Thaddeus McFarland
Fargo, Dwight
Farrell, Arthur Leslie
Fellows, Alfred
Ferguson, Wiiliam
Fitzgerald, Frederick James
Fleishman, Adolf Gabriel
Fleming, Richard Lee
Ford, George Oscar
Ford, Joseph Drouillard
Fordham, Milton Cephas
Foster, James
Foulkes, Thomas
Francisco, John Bond
Francis, Ira Johnson
Fry, Abraham
Fulkerson, Tunison
Furrey, William Cobbett
Gardner, Gilbert Emery
Gehrkens, Christian Magnus
Genrick, Henry Francis
Gibbs, Frank Nelson
Gibson, Edward David
Gilbert, Charles Silliman
Gilham, William Thomas
Gill, William Henry
Ginaca, Camille Armand Joseph
Gist, James Black, P. M.
Glasgow, Alfred Stevens
Glass, Henry
Goodhue, James William
Grable, Charles Elliott
Gray, Benjamin

Green, Samuel Miles
Griffith, John Tomlinson
Grubb, Edwin L.
Grymes, George Anderson
Guthrie, Edward Marshall
Haab, Benjamin Albert
Haines, Rufus Rowe
Haines, Thornton Griffith
Hale, Francis Seraph
Hall, Charles
Hall, George
Hall, Henry
Hamilton, Albert Newell
Harding, Charles Wesley
Harding, William George
Harms, Herman
Harrison, Lisle Ryerson
Hart, Frank John
Hartup, Edmund
Haskell, John Condit
Hawgood, Harry
Hayes, ·Louis Augustus
Heartt, Charles Lawrence
Hellman, Herman Wolf
Henderson, David Cockran
Henderson, John Armstrong
lfepp, Adolf
Herr, George Frederick
Hervey, William Rhodes, P. M.
Hetherington, Isaac
Hewitt, Leslie Randall
Hewitt, Randall Henry
Hiller, Sidney Warner
Hilliard, Samuel William
Hinman, Clifford Irving, P. M.
Hirschler, Jacob Peter
Hoffman, John K eyes
Holcomb, Elmer Joseph
Holmes, William Taylor
Holton, George Mortimer
Hoppins, Henry Isaac
Hough, William Arthur
Houselibe, William John
House, Molancthon
Howard, John Friend
Howard, Perry Alonzo

239

R08TER.

ROSTER.
240

Howard, William Woolworth
Hubbard, Albert Allen
Hudson Frank Dale
Hudson'. Josiah Whitcomb
Hughes Henry West
Hughes'. John Francis, P. M.
Hunter, William Alexander
Hussey, William Clark
Imendorf, Gustav Adolf
Innes, Daniel
Isgrigg, William Henry
Jackson, Charles
Jarrett, Benjamin Samuel
Johnson, John Smith
Jones, Cummins Butterfield, P. M.
Jones, Leonard
Jones William Wood
'
Jordan, Elmore Ch1d1ster
Jordan, Franklin
J"udson, Walter Horace
Judy, James Howard
Keeley, Edward Ellsworth
Keifer, John Henry
Kennedy, William, P. M.
Kincaid, Eugenio Hough
Kingsley, John Amos, .P. M.
Kinsel, Ernest Frederick
Kirkpatrick, John Lawrence
Knecht, George Gustave
Knickerbocker, Niles
Knotts, Harry Hope
Koepfti, Joseph Otto
Kuhrts, Jacob
Kurtz, Eugene, William
Lang, Gustav John
Lankershim, James Boon
Latsch, Theodore Martin
Lawrence, John
Law, Horace Crossley
Lea, Homer
Leake, Edward
LeMastcrs, James Calvin
Lester, William George
Levy, Leander
Lewis, James Clinton, P. M .
LiiJ.dstrom, Albert Stewart

..

McMahon, Peter Augustus
McManis, John Rodman
McNeely, Malachi Toland
Miles, George Clark
Miller, Frank Henry
Mills, Theodore
Mohn, George Frederick
Montgomery, James Andrew
Moore, Alfred
·
Moore, Sidney Roberts
Moore, Thomas Edward
Moorehouse, William Russell
Morton, William Ona
Moser, Gregory Frederick
Mulford, Shobal Patton
llforray, John Emmett
Muse.us, William Purinton, P. M.
Mushet, William Cresswell
Myers, Thomas Chalmers
Nelson, "William Matthew
Neuhart, Daniel
Nichols, Thomas Edwin
Nicolay, Ferdinand Franeis Louis
Noble, William
Norton, Lowell Prinston
Noyes, Charles Frederick
Ohse, Albert Edward
Oliver, Byron Lee
Orr, Benjamin Franklin
Osborne, Henry Zenas, Jr.
Osborne; Sherrill Blatdel
Osgood, Josiah Alonzo
Oxnam, Thomas Henry
Page, Roger Sherman
Page, Samuel Lester
Park, Lee Wesson
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Frank Tudor
Parks, Lyman Bertram
Parrish, Henry
Parkyns, George Arthur
Peabody, John Franklin
Pearson, Atlee Rhodes
Pease, Edward William
Pease, Niles
·peipers, Paul Clarence

Lieber, Louis Otto
\
Little William James
Liverµiore, Philarmon Patten
Lloyd, Henry Joseph, P. M.
Long, Edward Haynes
Long, Richard Joseph, ~· M.
Lotspeich, Rhoten Flemming.
LovcU, Lawrence Archer
Low, Alvin Harrington
Lowe, Oliver Edward
Lucas, Charles Fred
Luebbers, William Bernard
Lupton, Edwin, P. M.
Luther, Clarence Howard
Lynn, Thomas Mason
Lynn, Willis Sylvester
Macleod, Malcolm
Madden, Michael Henry
Marble, Byron Monroe
Martin, Julius Herbert, P. M.
Martin, Russell Clinton
Mason, John Cheney
Mason, John Harlan
Mason, Horatio Shumway, P. M.
Matheson, John Luther, P. M.
Mathews, William Burgess, Jr.
Matthay, Charles Herman
Maull, William Knapp
Mayberry, Harry Hauschild
Mayne, William Hawthorne
Mays, James Wesley
Maxson, Edmund William
Mead, Charles Abiel
Merrill, Charles Calvin
McCallum, Cyrus Alexamler
McClure, John Clarendon
McComas, Charles
McComas, Jesse
McConnachie, John
McCray, Morris Lynn
McFeely, William Kenyon
McGaffin, Albert Henry
McKeeby, Lemuel Clarke, P. M.
McKenzie, Charles Bell
McKirahan, Merlin Evart
McLain, William R. T.

16

•

241

Penilleton, C. Welles, P. M.
Perry, William Hayes
Peters, Robert
Peters, Samuel John
Pettigrew, Eugene T.
Pfunder, Albert
Phelps, Fred Moreland
Phelps, William Rees
Rickit, Daniel
Pickrell, Esau Addison
Pierce, Clarence Warner
Pierce, John Nelson
Pillsbury, George Eber
Platt, Henry Plummer
Platt, Robert Stark
Plotts, Thomas Mitchell
Pomeroy, Abraham Ehle
Pouedel, Leopold David
Potter, Lewis Arlington
Powell, Thomas
Powers, Luther Milton
Prince, James
Raymund, William Bernardo
Redding, Elza Leander
Reese, William Buchanan
Register, Henry C.
Reid, Frank Edwin
Reinhart, John Graves
Renshaw, Fred
Retzer, George Washington
Reynolds, Elbert Wilson
Righetti, Robert
Ritch, Joseph Royal
Robertson, Andrew
Robertson, Edwin Chase
Robinson, David Elmer
Robinson, Robert
Robinson, William Whipple, P. M.
Rohrer, John Bonewitz
Rose, Richard .T hornton
Rouse, Wylie John
Rowan, Valentine James
Rozell, Albert
Russell, John Newton, Jr.
Salisbury, Samuel Scott, P. M.
Sanborn, Eugene Franklin

242
Searelle, Ernest Edward
Seeley, Calvin Mason
Selover, Sidney, P. M.
Senseney, Anthony Emory
Sheldon, Melville Austin
Shelton, Harry Ashton
Shepard, Abraham Dummer
Sherer, William Walter
Shibley, John Kenneth West
Shorb, Andrew Stephen
Silverwood, Francis Beatty
Simon, Ernest George
Sippy, William
Slaughter, John Louis
Small, Richard Ellsworth
Smart, Carlos Levi
Smith, Benjamin N.
Smith, Everett Russell
Smith, Henry Augustus
Smith, Ira Bacon
Smith, Irving Raynor
Soults, Jam es Kennedy
Southwick, Thomas Smythe
Stanbery, Donald Warren
Stavnow, Charles Ashworth
Stein, Fred William
Stephenson, Fred A.lex., P. M.
Sterling, Frederick
Stevens, William James
Stewart, George Hadley
Stewart, Granville Quincy, P. M.
Stewart, William
Stinson, Marshall
Stoll, George Henry
Stoll, Simon, P. M.
Stombs, Thomas Allen
Stone, Orville Devere
Storrow, Samuel
St. Pierre, William Charles
Sfrathearn, Robert
Stroh, Harry Louis
Taylor, William Cylouas
Thatcher, Frank Lawrence
Thielen, Ralph Alexis
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin
Thomas, David Charles

ROSTER.
ROSTER.
Thomas, Everett Beecher
Thomas, Herbert Ivor, P. M.
Thompson, Phil Sheridan, P. M.
Titus, Elmer Maurice
.Tolbert, John William
Tompkins, Edward Payson
Topel, Robert Fredrik
Train, Robert Farquhar
Tresslar, Elkanah P.
Trout, John Henry
Tucker, Edwin Franklin
Tupper, Wilbur Stuart
Tupman, Thomas Pace
Tuttle, Victor Hugo
Tyler, Ormond Eugene
Valiant, George Francis
Van Nuys, Isaac Newton
Varcoe, George, P. M.
Vawter, Edwin James, Jr.
Vignola, Ambrogio
Wade, Robert David
Wadleigh, George Hutchinson
Walker, Daniel Henry
Wallace, Thomas William, P. M.
Walsh, Harry
Ward, Harry Clay
Warren, Pickett Latimer
Watson, Frank Leslie
Way, Archibald Chisholm
Webb, Benjamin Oliver, P. M.
Wedgwood, Charles Herbert
Welch, William Henry Seward
Wheaton, Alonzo
Whedon, Willard Loring
Wheelan, Frank M.
White, Arthur William ·
White, Charles Esmond Jeffries
White, Harrie Leslie
White, William Emory
Whitman, William Colfax
Whittier, Henry Frederick
Whomes, Isidore Frenkel
Wickizer, Hite
"
Williams, George Miller
Williams, Seth Stanley
Williams, William James

Wilmans, Henry Stickney
Wilson, Christopher North
Wilson, James
Winkler, William Carl
Winter, Charles Henry
Wood, Charles Modini
Woods, William Thomas
Woodworth, John Joesph

243

Wright, Charles William
Wright, John Gibson
Wyckoff, Louis Elkin
Young, Milton Kelly
Young, Samuel Alexander
Young, Thomas Watson
Young, Warren Smith

-513

CONFIDENCE LODGE, No. 203.
Castroville, Monterey county.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full M

oon.

OFFICERS:
No Certificate.
MEMBERS:
Buttle, Walter Charles
Black, Victor Delmas
Butler, Albert Newton
Butler, Thomas
Brown, Clinton Edward
Chappel, Thomas
Collins, John Frederick
Collins, Walter Ross
Clark, Thomas P .
Estabrook, Clarence Robert
Gatton, Lewis A.
. Lang, Frank Herbert

Labree, Thomas Prince
Lawler, Lawrence Joseph
Miller, John Edward, P. M.
Martin, Robert Henry
Northrop, Joseph, P. M.
Silva, Manuel M.
Sherfeck, John Moffat
Skaarup, Nels Moffat
Schmidt, Ludwig Hansen
Uttley, George
Whitcher, Charles Rose

23

SALINAS LODGE, No. 2 0 4Salinas, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, thi~d Frlday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edwin Miles H~lls, Master,
S
l H
Ch
amue
· McClary, Senior Deacon ·
· s c h ne1"der, Junior Deacon
'
as. Lawrence Pioda, Sen. Warden, L oms
Wm. Madson Black, Jun. Warden, Wm. John Haniilton, Marshal,'
Charley J. Whisman, Treasurer,
Robert Warnock St
d
Franc· Al . Abb
'
ewar '
is
vm
ott, S ecretary,
Elmer Pendleton Alexander, Stew.,
J osep h A. Geo. Adcock, Tyler.

244

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Hare, Llewellyn George
Abbott, Edwin Kirk
Harris, James
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Harvey, John H.
Abbott, Herbert Page
Hayward, Harrison Nelson
Abbott, Francis Alvin, P. M.
Hebbron, Edward Lincoln
Abbott, Carlisle Stewart, P. M.
Hebbron, John James
Abbott, Arthur Johnson, k'. M .
Hill, Charles Caleb
Alexander, John King, P. M.
Hitchcock, Benjamin
Adcock, Joseph Anthony George
Hoey, John Crais Frank
Anselmi, Charles Pasqual
Hoffman, Henry
Austin, Walter Pike
Hopps, Frank Jacob
Alexander, Elmer Pendleton
Hunn, George
Black, William Madison
Hills, Edwin Miles
Ball, Henry Seymour
Hill, William Jay, P. M.
Bennett, John Baron
Jones, Philo
Benson, William Henry
Joy, Charles
Blanchard, Charles N.
Joy, John Green
Boukofsky, Henry
Joy, Thomas Phair
Bromley, George Alfred
Kalar, David Gilmore
Burks, Charles Ephram
Kellogg, F.rank Frisbie
Brassel, Edmond Horace
Kent, Sylvester Edwin
Cayer, Oliva
Knowlton, Joseph
Clark, Mark Carr
Keogh, James
Connor, Joseph Johnson
Keonecke, Adolph
Gutting, Griffin Marshal
Krauss, Albert Gray
Chandler, Benj. Bradley, P. M.
Lacey, Claud Fountaine
Day, Frank Beardsley
Lacey, George Edwin
DeGroat, Edward
Logwood, Samuel Hall
Dorn, Carl Delos
Lynch, Peter John
Duncan, James
Lynn, Ira Evart
Duncan, William Thomas
Maderia, Donald Arthur
Durner, Fred W.
Malloy, James C.
Edwards, Thomas Clay, P. M.
Marti.n, William J efferson
Faulkner, Geo. Francis, P. M.
Massengill, James Talbot
Faw, Thomas Felix
McCandless, George Lindsay
Fenton, Edward
M ichel, Frederick
Fenton, Louis Edward
Middlecoff, Walter Whitefield
Fisher, William Randolph
McClary, Samuel Hayes
Fitch, Andrew
Mcintyre, George William
Foster, John Handle
McLaine, William Laughlin
Forster, Charles Alfred
1~elson, John
Gordon, Samuel Buffington
Nissen, Christian
Graves, Joseph Elbert
Norris, Walter
Grime11, John William
Outhier, Clyde B.
Hamilton, William John, P. M.
Olsen, John Peterson
Hansen, Albert C.

Palmer, James
Peterson, John Frederick
Peterson, Charles William
Pie;rce, Samuel Cassel
Pioda, Albert Woodbridge
Pioda, Charles Lawrence
Porter, D 'Arey Allan
Porter, John Brewer
Porter, Robert Lindsay
Powell, Simeon
Rankin, John E.
Renison, 'l'homas
Robson, Thomas
Roe, Lee Wilson
Rosendale, Charles B.
Rothe, Charles
Rowling, John Wendle
Robertson,' Alexander, P . M.
Riley, James Ross
Salacci, Batisti
Balacci, Mateo

'

245

Sallvini, James
Scott, John B.
Snyder, Jacob
Steinbeck, John Ernest, P. M.
Schmechel, Frederick W., P. M.
Smeltzer, Manasses J. G., P. M.
Schneider, Louis
Secor, Valette V.
Thompson, Oscar
Thompson, Cagie Grand
Tynan, Michael
Vanderhurst, William M1P.hacl
Vanderhurst, William, P. M.
Vetter, Philip
Warnock, Robert
Webster, James Ashley, P. M.
Welt, William G.
Whisman, Charles Joel
Winham, Harry
Winham, Harry

-1·a

NEWVILLE

~ODGE,

No. 205·

Newville, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or n ext preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

..

Allen T. Moore, Master,
Daniel M. Hull Senior Dt:acon
Allison Robert Logan, Sen. Warden, Marcus L. Coni:iin Junior Dea~on
Albert ~utton Smith, Jun. Warden, Steven·M. Corring~on, Marshal,
'
Ira ~ncil ~urro;vs, Treasurer,
William E. Flournoy, Steward,
David Edwrn Mitchell, Secretary,
Isaac Daniel Luce Steward
Wm. Franklin Rupert, Chaplain,
Samuel S. Markh:m, Tyler.'
MEMBERS:
Foreman, Benjamin Franklin
Flournoy, William Edwin
Flournoy, Thomas FranciR
Green, Hiram Renney
Houghton, Francis, P. M.
Hayward, Martin Haynon
Hull, Daniel Mosier, P. M.
Holderer, John
Hartferd, John William ·

Burrows, Rufus Gustavus, P. M.
Burrows, Orlando Arthur
Burrows, Ira Ancil
Corrington, Steven Munson
Conklin, Marcus Lafayette
Cleek, William Andrew
Dexter, Samuel Studley
Dyer, Zimri Parker
Evans, Aaron

246

,

ROSTER.

Houghton; Oscar William, P. M.
Johnson, John William
Knight, Henry D.
Logan, Alison Robert
Luce, Isaac Daniel
Miller, William Barton
Markham, William Henr.v
Markham, Samuel Stephen, P. M.
McKinley, John
McGuiness, Henry
Markham, Edgar Roscoe
Moore, Allen Twinon·
Mitchell, David Edwin

Morris, James Nelson
Osborn, Sullivan
Price, John Robert'
Price, Stephen Howard
Rupert, William Franklin, P. M.
Scribner, John Alex. T.
Scribner, Henry Alvin
Smith, Albert Mutton
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Stapp, Walter Hall
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherland
Winters, Sterling Price
\
Walker, Allen Bradford--44.

STANISLAUS LODGE, No.

ROSTER.
Lauder, Amos Chilton
Leek, Newton Edward
Long, Henry Francis
Meineke, Edward
Meyer, Alex.
Minniear, Charles Wilson
Monrot, Julien
Needham, James Carson
Park, Howard
Perley, George
Phillips, Robert
Plato, Gabriel David
Purvis, Richard Benjamin
Rea, Thomas Levi
Rice, Thomas Elam Baker
Riggs, John Stewart

247

Root, Milton Burdette
Severin, Johannes Henry
Sloan, Charles Edmund
Spenker, Joseph Christian Theo.
Stafford, John Ivy
Stoddard, George Russell, P. M.
Stone, Walter Scott
Swan, Charles Donald, P. M.
Surrhyne, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Tregea, William Leonard
Thompson, David B.
Vogleman, Henry
Ward, John Edward, P. M.
vv eyer, Gustavus Adolphus
Weyer, Frederick Karl
Zander, Frederick Henry---64.

206.

Modesto, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Fred Russell DeLappe, Master,
Charles D. Swan, Senior Deacon,
Robert Craig, Senior Warden,
Herbert M. Hatch, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Henry Kewin, Jun. Warden, Robert Elder, Marshal,
George R. Stoddard, Treasurer,
William ·Edward Kewin, Steward,
Newton Edward Leek, Seeretary,
Frederick Henry Zander, Steward,
Henry Vogleman, ?'yler.
MEMBERS:
DeYoe, Nathan Emery
Alexander, John Stewart
Elder, Robert
Andrews, Richard
Elias, Solomon Philip
Bailey, John Valentine
Fulkerth, Loring William, P. M.
Bailey, Robert Covert
Goefl'ert, George Kepp
Beard, Thomas Kennan
Griffith, Charles Henry
Bledsoe, Willis
Harp, James David
Cameron, George Washington
Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Clark, Henry Harrison
Hatch, Herbert M.
Courtright, Charles Milton
Hatton, William Henry, P M.
Courtright, Charles Milo
Hayter, Abraham LaFayette
Craig, Robert
Hewel, Charles L. Adolphus, P. M.
Crowe, Harry Spencer
Jamison, Andrew Robertgon
Dale, William Copeland
Jones, Claud Lee
Davis, Franklin Collins
Kewin, William Edward
Davis, James Alfred
Kewin, Thomas Henry
DeLappe, Fred Russell

ANAHEIM LODGE, No.

207.

Anaheim, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS: .
Octave A. Lagman, Senior Deacon,
William Henry Spake, Master,
Chester E. Holcomb, Sen. Warden, Wm. Thomas Wallop, Junior Deacon,
Arthur Lee Porter, Jun. Warden, William Falkenstein, Marshal,
John Resh, Steward,
Isadore Asher, Treasurer,
Fred 'k August Youngbluth, Steward,
Joseph Helmsen, Secretary,
Erwin Barr, Tyler.
Sidney Holman, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Asher, Isadore
Disher, David Cranston
Baker, Charles Walker
Dunham, Fay Montgomery
Barr, Erwin
Draper, Robert E. Lee
Blackfan, Charles T.
Falkenstein, William
Boyd, George Edward
Gardiner, Alex.
Bradford, Albert Sumner, P. M.
Grimshaw, Thomas Spencer, P. M.
Bradford, Albert Hatwell
Hatzfeld, Julius Philip
Chambers, William Heney
Helmsen; Joseph
Chynoweth, Henry William
HenderBon, William Hutchison
Cole, William Henry
Holcomb, Chester E.
Cowan, Argus Brutus
Holman, Sidney
Crowther, Walter Henry
Houck, Frederick Horn
Crowther, William, P. M.
Hutchinson, William Bell

..
ROSTER.

2-!8

ROSTER.

249

(

Hutt, James Hagar
Johnson, Frank Wellington
Korn, Frederick August
Krebs, Richard
Krick, Philip Hermann, P. M.
Lewis, Thomas Jefferson
Lockyer, George
Lagman, Octave Antonie
McDonald, Benjamin Franklin
Nagel, August
Pallas, Frank Wilhalm
Porter, Arthur Lee
Postle, Kenneth Fountain
Rea, John Blacklock

Resh, John
Schade, Gustav
Schwenckert, William Otto F.
Sipe, Charles Elmer
Smith, Ethan Dwight
Spake, William Henry
Spielman, Harry Garfield...
Teel, Samuel David
Thompson, Arthur Evylin
Tyler, John Harvey
Tyler, Norman
Wallop, William Thomas
Weisel, Peter Joseph
Youngbluth, Frederick August---54.

RIO VISTA LODGE, No.

208..

Rio Vista, Solano County.

McCormack, John
:McCormack, Thomas
McRemson, Winfield Scott
Monroe, Albert Harrold
Nicholl, John Robinson
Pressley, William Burrow~, P. M
Proctor, George Lawrence
Perry, Horace Grant, P. M.
Robinson, John
Rice, Cyrus
Rush, John Nelson
Stanton, Jed Clarke
Stewart, Matthew, P . M.

Smith, John Edward Turner
Smith, George Richard
Schow, Niels Anderson .
Stewart, Harry Kerrison
Stewart, Daniel C.
Stewart, David Alexander
Stewart, William Alex.
Talbert, John
Timm, William Delbert
Totman, William Nu.e ll
Williams, Robert Timothy
Weckwerth, Herman
Westgate, Edward William-56.

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo County.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Fred 'k Christian Johnson, Master, Wm. Alex. Stewart, Senior Deacon,
August Gloff, Senior Warden,
John Nelson Rush, Junior Deacon,
John McCormack, Junior Warden, Jed Clarke Stanton, Marshal,
Wm. Burrows Pressly, 'lreasurer,
Edward Wm. Westgate, Steward,
Matthew Stewart, Secretary,
George Lawrence Proctor, Steward,
James Hamilton, Tyler.

. OFFICERS:
Phillip Francis Ready, :Master,
Wm. Lester Donnelly, Senior Deacon,
Edgar W. Steele, Senior Warden,
John H. Hollister, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
Edwin T. Ferguson, JuniOr Warden, Paul Mills Gregg, Marshal,
Peter B. Prefumo, Treasurer,
John Williams, Steward,
Francis H. Throop, Secretary,
Edward H. Berry, Steward,
Jesse Lewis, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Emigh, ·William Jarvis
Brown, James Thomas
Emigh, James Livingstone
Caldwell, Euler Jones
Everley, Phillip Jacob
Christensen, Christian Frederick
Footman, Henry Edward
Christensen, John, P. M.
Fleischer, Benedict
Christensen, Martin
Gloff, August
Church, Mark Israel
liamilton, James
Church, Emery Ephraim
Hansen, Henry Wilson
Church, Louis Henry
Hoyt, Julian Buel
Church, Smith Colvin
Herzog, Emil
Davis, Charles Kirkpatrick
Johnson, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Dozier, Edward Charles, P. M.
Kelley, Albert Gallatin
Dozier, Mortimer Roberts. P. M.
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
Dirr, Henry John
Longwill, John
Emigh, Thomas Powell, P. M.
Markawitz, Abram Jack
Emigh, Milton

Albertoni, Nicola
Anderson, Leroy
Akers, Noel Prentice
Austin, James Henry
Ballou, Stephen Davis
Barger, Denil Edwin
Barnard, Daniel Denny
Black, Edward William
Buchanan, Francis Jacquin
Bradford, Walter Wiley
Berry, Edward Harvy
Bayley, William Stowe
Brooks, Samuel Wright
Brooks, Benjamin, P. M.
Call, Samuel Johnson

MEMBERS:
Cass, James
Cox, H. Milo
Crocker, Jacob
Crocker, Adolph
Cottmire, William Lewis
Cherry, William Wesley
Carpenter, Walter Clyde
Donnelly, William Lester
Dorn, Fred Adolphus, P. M.
Ferguson, Edward Tompkins
Filipponi, Dionigi
French, Wellington Horace
Fuller, William Earl
Frant\is, James Dorsey
Fry, Pleates

..
250
Gardner, Ralph
Gilbert Mathias
Green, Kaufman, P. M.
Green, Aaron
Green, Abram
Green, Morris
Gregg, Paul Mills
Garrison, Daniel Marcus, P. M.
Hanson, Simon Hemple
Hoff, Marcus Jacob
Hollister, John Hubbard
Hollister, John Hubbard, Jr.
Hansen, William
Jack, Robert Edgar, P. M.
Jack, Fred Bartlett
Jonson, Ernest
Jackson, Freel Charles
Kay, Ernest James
Knight, William
Koshland, Max. Isadore
King, Joseph Milton
King, Harlan Clarence
Lake, Herman Wingate
Lasar, Emanuel
Lasar, Isaac
Latimer, Benjamin Griffith
Lewis, Jesse
Lima, Manuel Frank
Miossi, Bernardo
McManus, Lewis Merton
McKennon, Harry Ewers, P. M.
Morgan, James Aaron
Metz, William l!enry Ha~1'ison
Merritt, George
Merrill, Arthur Merton
Noah, Louis Meyer
Nelson, Albert, P. M.
Patten, Joseph Albert
Post, Albert Merrill
Proper, William George
Prefumo, Peter Benedett•1

ROSTER.
Payne, Howard Morgan
Pozzo, Frank, Jr ..
Righetti, Robertino
Rockwell, James Justice ·
Rea.d y, Phillip Francis, P. M.
Robbins, Fred. Olmstead.
Sandercock, William
Sc}:mlze, Henry Frederick
Schwartz, William
Shaw, Robert
Short, James Blake
Smith, Walter Otto
Snyder, ·Delos Daniel
Squire, James
Staniford, William Buckley
Story, George
Smithers, John
Seaton, Joseph Henry
Spencer, William Harrison, P. M.
Sutliff, Ralph Parker, P. M.
Steinhart, Alphonse Wash., P. M.
Steele, Edgar Willis
Sjnsheimer, Louis Felix, P. M.
Sinsheimer, Otto Oscar
Simpson, Frank Berry
Thompson, John Horatio
Trewick, Roger
Tucker1 Ira Ward
Throop, Francis Horatio
Tomasini, Luis
Vollmer, Edward
Walraven, Francis Wells
Ward, Orean Alex.
Weir, John Porter
Whicher, John, P . M.
Wilson, James Eugene
Wiley, James William
Williams, John
Williamson, Andrew
Woods, Victor Hugo
Unangst, Edwin Peter-112.

ROSTER.
FRIENDSHI~

LODGE, No.

251
210.

San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Th~rsda~ in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frederick Le.slie Cauch, Master,
Ivan Bowen Briscoe, Senior De1u~on,
F. Ten Eyck Edmans, Sen. Warden, James Trengove, Junior D!l:1con
Theo. McKay Wright, Jun. Warden, Franklin Bertrand Warring, :i'\I1 >P.hd,
Geo. Butterfield McKee, Trenqurer, Bernard H. Von Boden, ;ilt.iward,
Perley Francis Gosbey, Secretary,
Walter Fred 'k Lillick, 9tcwsrr1,
Peter Long, Chaplain,
Aaron Jefferson Haynes, .1.yler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Daniel
Burbank, Gideon Webster
Burkett, George Parks
Allen, Napoleon Bonaparte
Cambers, Joseph Benjawin
Anderson, Charles Wallace
Anticevich, Anton G.
Carling, Edward
Arthur, James Gordo'!
Cauch, Frederick Leslie
Chambers, Arthur L.
Bacon, George Graham
Chambers, Seymour
Bailey, Lamartine Eth.,.ar.J
Chipman, Lemuel Job, P. M.
Ball, Hiram Jf!rome, !'. M.
Chipman, William Fitch
Bangs, Fred Herhert
Clark, William Henry, P. i[.
Barnes, LaFayette C.
Clayton, Edward William
Battee, Albert Jackson
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Barker, Charles Alph;,nso
Coulter, William A.
Barker, Frank Page
Coyle, John Thomas, P. M.
Barlow, George Q.
Cozzens, George W at1hington
Battelle, Eugene Erle
Curnow, James Russell
Berr, Augustus William Hn•loloh
Davis, Daniel McDonald
Beckert, Alex. Felise
Davis, Frank
·
Bein, Louis Philip
Davis, George Arthur
Bh<lrow, Asa
Denker, William Henry
Bodley, Thomas
Dittus, George Benjamin
Boomer, Preston Hamilt·m
Dittus, John Jacob
Boynton, Joshua Traek
Bozelle, Charles Lester
Drexler, Henry Otto
Easterday, John Davis
Bozelle, Nate Overman
Edmans, Frank Ten E.
Bragg, George Henry
Edmans, Walter John
Briggs, John Gregg
Briscoe, Ivan Bowen
Edwards, Henry William
Edwards, Wilbur James
Broedel, Michael
Entriken, Benjamin Frink
Brown, Frederick Benjamin
Falconer, Sherman Deforest
Brown, Francis Marion
Brownell, Elmer E.
Feldman, Carl Fred
Finley, Samuel Henry
Bruch, Louis
Fisher, Hamilton Henry
Bruner, Henry Smith
Fisher, John Edwards
Bullard, Arthur Rebard

'•

252
Fisher, Thomas
Fitzgerald, George Lee
Fleming, George Alex.
Fogle, John
Fox, Abraham D.
Frazer, Isaac Abner
Garnes, John Franklin
Garrison, Fred Merrill
Gee, William
Geer, Albert Warren
Gillespie, Walter Weir
Gorr, Charles Henry
Gorr, Lewis Lawrence
Gosbey, Perley Francis, P. M.
Graham, John Martin
Groves, William French
Gussefeld, William
Hardy, William Carlton
Harris, John Edward
Harris, James Thomas
Hatman, Frederick David
Hayden, Zachariah Taylor
Hayes, Albert Cu=ins
Haynes, Aaron Jefferson
Heckenroth, Louis
Hemsworth, William Henry
Heriot, Robert Alex.
Higgins, John C.
Hines, George Clayton
Hogg, Charles Henry
Hogg, Henry Clay
Hollis, William Henry, P. M.
Rowe," William B.
Hunkins, Charles Frederick
Jackson, Lewis
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
Kennedy, William Charles
Kent, Herbert Lynd
Kenyon, George Phineas
Kingdon, George August.i.s
Knight, Isaac Allison
Koch, Valentine
Kocher, Jacob John
Kocher, John Randolph
Ladd, Oscar T.
Lamrock, William Henry

ROSTER.
Lee, Robert Alex., P. :M. 4
Lenzen, Theo.
Lighthall, George Elisha
Liddle, James Ward
Lillick, Walter Frederick
Long, Peter, P. M.
Lotz, Joseph Albert,~. M.
Lunsford, Lewis Monroe
Mahoney, Dennis Vincent, P. · M.
Main, Earl Paine
Mantz, Warner Henry, P. M.
Marckres, Clair Cutting
Marckres, Harvey Austin
MacBride, Colvin Garland H.
Mathews, Henry Davenport, P. M.
McConnell, Robert
McCoy, . Luther Addison
McCornick, Samuel
McDougall, Giles Eggle~,m
McKee, George Butterfield
McKee, James Franklin
McLaurin, John James
McMillan, John Gilmore
McNeil, Albert Beebe
· Monroe, Joseph Albert
Montgomery, Seymour 'Thomas
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Moreland, Samuel Edgar
Murgotten, Alex. Philip
Neame, Edgar Austin
Newcomb, Charles Thom.~s
Nikirk, Frank Austin
Nikirk, John Hill
Norrish, Joshua
Northern, William Leander
Nott, Edwin
Osgood, Marion Hudson
Orcutt, Leslie Squire, P. M.
0 'Doherty, Henry Palmer B.
Pallesen, Christian
Pash, Joseph
Paull, William Walter
Pawley, Casper
Payne, William Arthur
Perrin, Thomas Abram
Perrin, Thomas Cady

ROSTER.
Porter, Daniel A very
Pieper, Charles Herman
Potts, John Samuel
Purington; Byron
Raven," Walter Leroy
Riehl, Adam
Ripperdan, Herold Davis
Rogers, Morgan Protheus
Rogers, William James (1)
Rogers, William James (2)
Ross, Fred Cary
Rothermel, George Lewis
Rouse, Ernest G.
Russell, Frank Pelatish
Rucker, William Walter
Ryan, John James
Sarzin, Joseph
Schroder, Albert
Schumacher, Frederick
Seeley, Martin Van Buren
Sheldon, William McCleiland
Shelton, William Thomas
Shrader, Rufus Woodruf
Shumate, Albert E.
Shumate, Charles Henry
Singletary, Charles .ris.b.
Singletary, Emory Curti8
Skiff, Herman Albert
Small, Charles Kendall
Smith, Bradley
Smith, Francis Jacob
Smith, Peter Barr
Smith, Walter M.
Smythe, Delos William, P. M.
Soderstrom, Ernest Theo.

253

Sonniksen, Louis
Spitzer, Frank Easterday
Spitzer, Lewis Amiss
Stern, Frederick Marcus
Stevens, Orvis
Stull, Judson L.
Stone, William .Boulogne
Thimann, Bernhardt Conrad
Thomas, Reuel Kent
Tooker, Simeon Edward
Trace, Merritt I>ascoe
Tren'g ove, James
Van Dalsun, William Stoddard
Von Boden, Bernard H.
Von Dorsten, Henry August
Voshell, Francis S.
Walker, Jason Josiah
Warring, Franklin Bertrand, P. M.
Wayland, Elbert Francis
Weisbach, Lewis CharleB
Wells, George Summers
W niffin, Roscoe Albert
Whitehurst, George Arthur
Whitehurst, Joel Shipp
Willkomm, Adolph
Williams, . William Henry
Williams, Charles R.
Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
Wilson, Louis Eugene
Woodin, Scott Percy
Woodrow, William Larkin, P. M.
Worthen, George Wash., P. M.
Wright, Theo. McKay
Young, Clarence G.
-229.

SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 2II.
Hollister, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Chaney, Master,
Fred A. Earle, Senior Deacon,
John Oscar Davis, Senior Warden, Wm. Lloyd Ecke,t, Junior Deacon,
Richard O. Hardin, Junior Warden, Archie D. McKinnon, Marshal,
Heylin B. Harris, Treasurer,
Francis John Titus, Steward,
Roderick Shaw, Secretary,
Fred Lewis Barnhisel, Steward,
Collins Monroe Brown, Chaplain,
George A. Blaek, Tyler.

'•

254

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

'

MEMBERS:
· Hubler, Manuel Rena
Agnew, Gilmore
Jefferson, Lewis Weston
Barnhisel, Charles Franklin
Barnhisel, Fred Lewis ·
Ladd, Leonard Murch
Lauritzen, Christian Otto, P. ·M.
Black, George A.
Lauzenberg, Julius
Black, William Walter
Logan, Erwin Sanfo~
.tslank, William Henry
Bolton, Eugene Elsworth, P. M.
Lowe, John Thomas
Bonnel, Franklin Calvin
McConnell, Geo·rge Montgomery
Boucher, Joseph
Mccroskey, Benjamin ~urratt
Bingamon, Joseph Wheeler
Mccroskey, John Marshal
Briggs, Nash Corwith, Jr., P. M,
McCray, Alfred Marion
Briggs, Nash Corwith, Jr.
McDonald, Daniel
Brown, Collins Monroe
McKay, Alex. J.
Chaney, William, P. M.
McKinnon, Archie D., P. M.
Clement, Robert Richar<lson
Marcum, Leo
Nash, Francis Orlando
Coleman, Harry, P. M.
Cole, George Washington
~ewlon, Henry Bascom
Crow, William Jasper
Noble, William Francis
Croxon, Jeremiah John
Nye, Jacob
Cunning, Francis Asbury, P. M.
Orr, Albert
Dalzell, William Francis
Ottolini, Ludovico
Davis, James Philip
Packer, Joseph
Pond, Hiram
Davis, John Owcar
Dunlap, William Anderson, P. M.
Rosenberg, Marcus
Ruckledge, Robinson, P. M.
Earle, Fred Antipas
Eckert, William Lloyd
Savage, Frank Lee
Estes, Gustavus Kendall
SebireJ Frederick Henry
Floyd, Benjamin
Shaw, Roderick
Fox, Jacob Riley
Shaw, George Eden
French, Theo. Hugh
Shore, Frank E.
Geach, John Sow<len
Shore, Richard Elijah
Gray, Robert Brew
Skow, Peter Christian Lauridsen
Green, Alfonso
Skow, Ham Christian
Grubb, Joseph Roy
Steinbeck, Wilhelm Peter, P. M.
Hamilton, l<,red Judson
Steinbeck, John Adolf, P. M.
Hamilton, Judson Gerould, P . M. Stephenson, Robert Praxedes
Hardin, Robert Marshall
Tebbett, James Henry, P. M.
Hardin, Richard Owen
Thomas, Leonard Lyon
Harlan, Ulysses Grant
Tonn Adolph
Harris, Heylin Beaumont
Titus, Francis Joseph
Higby, William, P. M.
Trau, William Robert
Hollingbery, William VoRs
Wagner, Hiram
Hopcroft, Charl.es
Wagner, Charles llenry
Hubbard, William
Walberg, Lars. Erick
.1:1ul1, Leonard Charles, P. M.
Wapple, George, P. M.

Williamson, Herbert Monroe
Williams, Richard B.
Wills, Grant

25.'i

Wiswell, Joseph Walter
Wright, John Amos
-95.

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. n2 .
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
C. Alvin Muller, Master,
J. Alex. J. McDonald, Sen. Warden,
Madsen J. Iverson, Junior Warden,
Samuel Hansen, Treasurer,
Wm. J. B. Warner, Secretary,
Frederick C. Mayer, Chaplain,

James E. Elhington, Senior Deacon,
Richard Neilan, Junior Deacon,
Charles William Bensen, Marshal,
S. McGregor McDonald, Steward,
Wm. Edward Elhington, Steward,
James Smart Bailey, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Corn, Eugene Charles
Danielson, Albert Hijalmer
Daudibon, Alexis
Davis, Ben
De Gear, Jefferson
Dietrich, Christian
Dippel, John
Doran, William Richard
Duncan, Franklin Thomas
Dunshee, Cornelius E., P. M.
Dunwebber, Charles Christian S.
Eastman, George Solomon
Eggert, August
Ellis, William Potts
Elkington, James Edward
Elkington, William Edward
Fairclough, Freeman
Fairgrieve, John
Felt, John William
Fetz, Joseph
Fitschen, Adolph Frederick, P. M.
Fogelberg, Bar Sture Leantine
Fulton, Charles Everett
Hamm, Sigmund
Hamilton, James William
Hansen, Samuel, P. M.
Hansen, Carl

Andrews, William James
Artigues, Charles Alex.
Ashford, John Parker, P. M.
Aver, James Henry
Bahrs, John Jacob
Bailey, James Smart
Bailey, Phillip John
Bancroft, John Royal
B!!-raille, John William
Barreilles, Eugene Louis Emile
Barry, Matthew Bryant
Baum, Peter
Bensen, Charles William
Berendsen, Julius
Birbe, Henry Carl, P. 1\1.
Blank, William
Blangy, Samuel Francis
Browell, Frank
Burns, John
Caubu; Peter
Cerf, Emile
Christeen, James
Crystal, William
Crawshay, ·Edward
Cochins, Ludwig
Copus, Jay Nelson
Crosby, Horton James

256

ROSTER.

Hansen, Peter
Hare, Elias C., P. M.
Hare, John S.
Hartwick, Sophlius Ferdinand
Harlow, George Winfield, P. M.
Hass, Arnold
Hasse, Leonard
Horn, Frederick
Horn, Bernard Jeremiah
Israel, Simon
israel, Max Jacob
Iverson, Madsen Jensen
Jacobs, John Adolph
Jeffreys, George Marshall
Johnson, Arthur Herbert
Johnson, Charles Gustave
Katz, Frank Philip
Kay, David Scott
Kehlenbeck, Henry
Kispert, ·charles Frank, P. M.
,Kirsch, Louis Charles
Kollmer, Jacob
Kramer, Louis George, P. M.
Kuhlman, Die
Leger, Maurice
Litchfield, Charles Amica:t
Long, Piercy Vincent
Mahlstadt, Henry
Mangels, Hans Mac. C.
Mayer, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Mead, Ray
Milly, Charles
Milly, Jerome
Miller, John Edward
Mitchell, John James
Moffat, Henry
Montgomery, John
Muir, William
Muller, -0. Alvin, P. M.
Myers, Jacob
McDonald, William, P. M.
McDonald, James Alex. John
McDonald, Simon McGregor
McDowell, Thomas
McPhearson, William McDonald
Meley, Frank

Neilan, Richard
· '~iles, Edward Jackson
Nonnenman,, Charles
Nonnenman, Louis
Partridge, John Slater
Pedersen, John Peder
Petersen, James Pe~r
Pfeiffer, George Peter
Potting, Hrncy Frederick
Quayle, Erhelred Edward
Quinn, James Henry
Rahlman, Harry Frederioik, P. M.
Reiser, Edwin Oliver
Reusch, Jacob
Riccomi, Olinto
Riccomi, Frederick Joseph
Riccomi, George Leo.
Raundey, George H.
Sambuck, Prosper
Schultze, Albert Walter
Schultze, August Henry
Schultze, William Frederick
Schute, Richard Alex.
Strahle, Paul Charles
Simon, Samuel Collins
Simpson, Josiah Adam
Smale, William James
Smith, George Bebington
Smith, Henry
Soares, Joseph Dias
Stricker, Henry
Stumpf, John
Stumpf, Peter Benjamin
Stamps, James Murray
Tanner, William
Taylor, James King
Terrill, John Gladding
Thompson, Charles
Todd, David Byron, P. M.
Ulenberg, Peter Hansen
Warner, William John B., P. ¥·
Wedemeyer, Bernard Henry
Welch, James Millar
Williams, Henry Fairfax, P. M.
Wilson, John Archibald
Wilson, Richard Fostar

ROSTER.
Woenne, Emil
Wolter, Herman Matthew

257

W orsdale, Phillip
Zimmerman, Ph~llip-150.

SAN BUENAVENTURA LODGE, No.

214.

Ventura, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full ¥oon.
OFFICERS:
Thomas Edward Cunnane, Master,
Chris. W. Cannon, Senior Warden,
Joseph M. Argabrite, Jun. Warden,
John S. Collins, Treasurer,
Jacob L . Argabrite, Secretary,
Amos Dudley Seward, Chaplain,

Frank C. Doty, Senior Deacon, ·
James R. Walker, Junior Deacon,
William Wallace Arkley, Marshal,
Mucktar Willett, Steward,
Ira Gosnell, Steward,
Richard Owen Robinson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Andrews, Lewis Whiting
Argabrite, Jacob Lewis
Argabrite, Joseph Mayo
Baker, Frederick William, P. M.
Barnes, George Silverman
Barnes, Earl Elsworth
Barnard, Frank Everett
Blackstock, Nehemiah, P. M.
Bogart, Mark E. Vander
Brecheen, Thomas Levin
Burke, Arthur Oliver
Canet, Edward C.
Cannon, Marion, P. M.
Cannon, William Herschel
Cannon, Christopher Wren
Cerf, Leon
Cha:ffe, John Hyde
Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace
Clay, Henry
Collins, John Stevenson
Cook, George, P. M .
Crandall, George Brady
Cunnane, Thomas Edwanl
Daly, Thomas Henry
DeArman, David Hamilton
Dennis George Palmer
l 7

Denison, David Rodes, P. M.
Dunning, Edward E.
.J< ·a lkenstein, U. S. Grant
Featherstone, James Wrniam
Foster, Eugene Preston, P. M.
Francis, Willard Hugo
Gerry, Edmond Waite
Giddings, Herbert Alv.aro, P. M.
Giddings, James Horace
Gosnell, Ira
Gosnell, Truman Barrick
Granger, William Henry
Grant, Kennith Peter, P. M.
Green, Charles Norris
Hall, Edwin Seth
·Healey, Charles Edward
Hunt, Richard Orville
Hubler, Rolla Alonzo
Kauffman, Parke Wilfred, P. M.
Kilson, George Elmer
Larmer, John
Lathrop, Walter Herber
Lewis, William Leachman
Lincoln, Willis Philip, P. M.
May, Ellis Cornell
McDavid, Irwin Alex.
McGuire, William

ROSTER.

ROS'l'ER.

258
McKay, John William
Neel, Henry Harrison
Newbauer, Joseph Sigimond
Newby, Thomas Sheridan
Overmire, Milton Strader
Ogg, Thomas Daniels
Peck, Henry Essington
Poplin, Adley Greenfield
Power, George Coffin
Rasmussen, James Peter
Ready, William Edward, P. M.
Reese, David ;John, P. M.
Reese, George Llewellyn
Reilly, Edward Francis
Reynolds, James Edward, P. M.
Robinson, Richard Owen
Rogers, Merle John, P. M.
Roth, Joseph
Sackett, George Lincoln

Seward, Amos Dudley
Selby, Edwa.rd Milton
Shaw, Nathan Hastings
Sheldon, Charles Henry
Simpson, Volney Alex.
Slosson, Leonard Butler
Starkweather, George Albert
Sudden, Robert Cowperwait
Taylor, Charles Osborn, P. M.
Tenney, Alfred Davison
Thompson, William Henry A.
Todd, Theo.
Toland, Thomas Orlando
Vincent, William Cluett
Walker, James Alfred
Walker, James Russell
Wilde, Wellington Goodwin, P. M.
Willett, Mucktar

OAK GROVE LODGE, No.

~91.

215.

Alameda, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Chas. Edwin Stokes, Senior Dt!acon,
Edmond Davidson Rue, .Master,
Burton E. Combs, Sen1or Warden, Frank V. Bordwell, Junior Deacon,
James Henry McNutt, Jun. Warden, Charles Alex. Allardyce, Marshal,
Chester L. Robinson, Steward,
Theodore Wm. Leydecker, Treas.,
James Niel Eschen, Steward,
Oswald Lubbock, Secretary,
George Sturtevant, Tyler.
Henry S. Lubbock, Cha.plain,
Abrahamson, Frank Bernard
Addison, James
Agnew, Gilmore Marion
Aitchinson, Gavin
Allardyce, Charles Alex.
Ames, Wiltcie B.
Anthony, Edward Requa
Bacon, Lewis Goodwin
Bacon, William Robert
Bailoy, Edward LaForge

MEMBERS:
Bancroft, Charles Edwin
Bancroft, Harlow Palmer
Barber, James Burton, P. M.
Barber, Lyman Hempstead
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel
Barton, Phineas Wesley
Bateman, Isaac ·Christman
Bates, Joseph Clement, Jr.
Baurhyte, Wm. H. Moore, P. M.
Baxter, Robert William

Beach, Arthur
Beegle, Charles Warren
Benedict, William Ezra
Bennett, Charles Edwin
Benseman, George Adolpll
Benson, Benjamin Harlow
Binder, Frederick
Bird, Robert Barnabas
Birkholm, Soren Gudme
Blanding, Herbert Bowen
Bliss, John George
Boehmer, Fritz
Bolton, George
Bordwell, Frank Victor
Bordwell, ·Frederick Albert
Born, Aug. Julius Wilhelm
Bradley, Theo.
Bramman, Henry S.
Brevoort, John F.
Brock, Henry
Brown, Brainard Creswell
Brown, Cyrus Austin, P. M.
Brown, Herbert Hamilton
Brown, Horace Percival
Brown, Nanowa Theo.
Brush, Frank Spencer
Bruce, John Alex.
Bunker, William Edward
Buttrick, John Farrar
Byrne, John Thomas
Carpenter, Hugh Slicer
Chaplin, William George
Chapman, Isaac Newton
Cherry, Frank Wright
Chipchase, Chester Garfield
Christensen, Peter
Cnristianson, John Mariu~
Christy, James Robert
Chucovich, Stephen Daniel
Clark, David
Clark, John ;Russell
()lark, Lincoln
Clay, Allen Morgan
Clifford, Joseph
Clintsman, Elbert Niels
Collier, Richard Henry

Collier, Richard Bartlett Howard
Collins, James Alfred, P. M.
Colver, Anthony Wayne
Combs, Burton Elliott
Cone, Frederick Sprague
Conger, Sidney John
Conrad, George Edgar
Conrad, John
Cooii:, Christian Daniel
Copeland, Isaac
Copeland, William Forest
Cormeny, Eugene, P. M.
Cornelius, Albe:ct Wardner
Cornell, William Frederick
Countiss, Robert Hays
Cortelyou, Lockeman Shafter
Courtney, George Henry
Cousins, Frederick William
Crane, Alna LaRue
Crooks, Richard
Culver, Charles Marshall
Culver, Marshall Lyman
Daniel, J a.mes
Daniels, Fred Hall
Davis, Samuel Haines
Davis, William Henry
Decker, Henry Peters
Decker, Robert Birtin
Delius, Auto Ferdinand Wilhelm
Dexter, Albert Gregory
Dibert, Wayne Clay
Dill, John William
Doane, Thomas Henshelwaod
Dow, Henry Alvah
Droscher, Frank
Dungan, Eugene Leon
Ebbets, Arthur Stevenson
Eberle, Adam Winfield
Eickhoff, John Hen·r y, P. M.
Eisfeldt; Theo. Adrian
Eisfeldt, William Theo.
Ellsworth, John
Emmons, George W elling~on
Eschen, James Carl
F,qchen, James Niels
Fischer, Charles Frederick

259

260

ROSTER.

Fisher, Bertrand Lee
Fleming, Frank Mosely
Foderer, George Stevens
Foderer, John Wesley
Foderer, Joseph Frank
Fortner, Clinton Alfred
Fowler, James
Franciscovich, Mateo
Gaines, Mark Edward
Gentle, Ira Manary
Gibbs, Albert Wm. John, P. M.
Gibson, William Maurice
Gilfillan, James Caiq1es
Gillogly, William Jay Syms
Glissmann, Henry
Godfrey, Henry Squire
Greene, Lucius Ellwood
Grippin, Joseph Ernest
Griffiths, George Chandler
Hacke, Frederick Henry
Hacke, Henry Christian
Hall, Gilbert Cowles
Hally, Frank
Hammersmith, Frank Arthur
Hammersmith, George
Ha=ond, Anselm Charles, Jr.
Hammond, Charles John
Hammond, Charles John, Jr.
Ha=ond, Henry Miller, P. M.
Hand, Roy Josiah' ·
Hansen, Hans Peter
Hansen, Hans Thomsen
Harris, Edward Frisby
Harris, Robert Eugene
Haskell, Walter Williams
Haynes, William Ellsworth
Heaney, Frank Noble
Heck, Victor
Heidt, Charles Louis
Henderlong, William Randolph
Henderson, John Norman
Henrici, Harry Hermann
Herbert, Henry Vandeveer, P. M.
Herman, Charles Louis
Hesse, William Alex.
Hikes, Howard Lincoln

ROSTER.

--

Hildreth, George Francis
Hillman, Richard George
Hirschfeld, Emil
Hodges, William 'B.
Hodgkiss, William Henry
liolt, Edward James
Hopps, Frank Walter
Hopps, Robert Edwin
Howlet.t, Frank
Hunter, Robert Draper
Hurlbut, Frederick.Haynes
llderton, Henry George
Jackson, Joseph Wilson
Jacobs, Alex.
Jacobs, Saul Roberts
Jacobsen, Jacob Erick
.;rames Edward Pond
James, Frank Vivien
J·amieson, John Cameron, Jr.
Jenkins, Frederick Eugene
Johnson, Christian Ole
Johnson, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Jones, Emmet Renwick
Jones, Lee Savage
Jones, Reed
Junkins, Charles Keeler
Kaufmann, Emil Hermann
Kebby, Harry Maurice
Kemp, Edward Henry
Kenney, Arthur Edward
Kenny, Franklin Augustus
Keyes, Charles Edward
Keys, Ernest Mulford
Kiefer, William Colfax
Killman, Henry C.
Kimball, Marand
Klein, George Henry
Klein, Peter
Kline, Lucien William
Knowland, Joseph
Knowland, Joseph Russell, P. M.
Knowles, William Brook
Koerber, August
Kollmyer, William Blythe
Konigshofer, Leon Andrew
Kou:ff, David

Kramer, Ralph
Krieder, Frank Light
Lamborn, Benjamin Francis
Lancaster, Chester Jack~1m
Lancaster, Joseph
Langley, Charles Lester
Langren, Louis L.
Larsen, Niels Christian
Lassen, Hans Christian
Lassen, Henry Christian
Lehners, Carl Frederick Aug.
Lehrkind, Oscar Frederick
Lewis, George Leonard
Leydecker; Theo. William
Lipman, Harrison Randolph
Loomis, George Rodney
Loop, Frank Sumner
Lorber, Hugo Milton
Lovejoy, Edward Bell, P. M.
Lubben, Frederick
Lubbock, Henry Schultz
Lubbock, Oswald
Luderman, Henry William
Luders, Randolph Otto
Lutgen, John
Mackie, Alex.
Magagnos, Charles Plumner D.
Magill, Robert Henry
Margrave, Charles Edmond
Marshall, Sidney Smith
Martin, David Chester
Martin, David Wilkins
Mastick, Charles Levi
McCallam, George Stirling K.
Mccomber, Frank Kerrick
McFarland, Benj. Salisbury, P. M.
McFarland, Francis Watts
McNutt, James Henry
Meigs, John J.
Meinecke, Henry George
Melrose, Charles Francis
. Merriman, George Marsliall
Mesick, Samuel Peter
Messer, Joseph Oneseme
Meyers, Henry .Haight
Michaels, Charles Frederick

Michaels, Henry
Minor, Robert
Mitchell, Henry Thomas
Mitchell, Sidney George
Mock, Arthur, P. M .
Moore, Fred Thompson
Moulthrop, Carlton Franciis
Moulthrop, Horace Lankton
Moyes, Edwin Moyes
Mundwyler, John Lewis
Munthe, Daniel Peter
Nason, Arthur Graham
Nauman, Paul Zeligo
Nelson, Franz Otto
Nelson, Hans
~ield, John Lingard
Nobmann, John Henry
Nottnagle, Charles Frederick
Noy, William Henry
Noyes, Charles Edward
Nylander, Gustaf Adolf
Oehlmann, Ludwig
Owen, George Marshel
Paff, Charles
Pagels, Edward
Parker, Dudley Allerton
Paul, Almarin Brooks, Jr.
Paulsmeier, Albert Carl
Payne, George Henry
Penfield, William Henry
Petersen, Andrew Hansen
Petersen, Gari Christian Aug.
Petersen, Robert
Pettes, William Ethan
Peters, Thomas Lynn
Phillips, John
Philpot, Charles Henry
Pickthall, Myles
Pierce, George Henry
Plummer, George Elliott
Potts, James
Powell, John Wesley
Poyzer, William Richard
Priestley, Frank Henry
Pyne, Thomas Ireland
Quast, August F.

261

262
Ray, Frederick William
Rathbun, George Arthur
Reeves, Herbert Villiers
Reynolds, George Potter
Rhodes, James D.
Ricklefson, Henry Herman
Riehl, Otto
Riggle, Frank Hagen
Robinson, Chester Larned
Roeder, William Edward
Rogers, Jesse Isaac
Rosenberg, Gay Allender
Rosenberg, Robert Colman
Ross, James
Rounds, John Albert
Rudbach, John Christian
Rue, Edmond Davidson
Russell, James Rainey
Rust, William J e:fl'erson
Sale, William Truman
Sanford, Joseph Warren
Sansom, John Andrew
Sansom, Louis Nelson
Schmalz, Claus
Schmidt, Gustav Ludwig
Schoenan, Henry
Schneider, Henry
Scott, Arthur Walter
Scovel, Horace Hezekiah
Shannon, Albert Sydney J.
Shear, William Mortimer
Shearman, James Spotiswood
Sheeran', James Andrew
Sherman, Samuel
Siegfried, John Christian
Simon, Lucien
Simpson, Milton William, P. M.
Sloan, James Ralph
Smith, Clarence M.
Smith, Eliphalet Minor, P. M.
Smith, John Alex.
Smith, Weston Orlin
Speddy, Thomas Howard
Spreckels, Richard
Stack, James Henry
Stafford, Auren Alfred

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Stallman, Frank Oscar '
Starkweather, Haynes Kingsley
Steltzner, Emil Johann C.
Stephenson, Stanley
Stocker, Frederick Henry
Stoddard, Asa Church
Stokes, Charles Edward
Stratford, Harry Cornish
Strong, Milton Grosvenor
Struntz, Albert
Sturtevant, George
Sullivan, Dennis Joseph; P. M.
Swayne, Robert Henry
Swett, Daniel Storia ·
Swithenbank, Charles
Taylor, Charles Nielson
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin
Taylor, Henry Reed
Taylor, Morgan Stuart
Taylor, Raymond Eugene
Teller, John de Peyster
Teller, Philip Shepheard, P. M.
Thomas, Edwin James
Thompson, David
Thompson, Hans Andrea!!
Thompson, George Stuart
Thompson, Robert R.
Thompson, William
Throop, James Hervey
'1:ilden, Charles Lee
Tisdale, Charles Lewis
Townsend, Henry Clay.
'l'oy, Howey Marshall
Tuft, Walter Edward
Turner, Myron C.
Van Brunt, William Roger
Van Orden, Leander
Van Oterendorp, Klass
Vivier, Armand MauriM
Volberg, Charles Christian
Volberg, Frederick Ludwig
·vosberg, Joel Brown
Wall, Carlton Hobbs
Walter, William Henry
Walton, Frank Newton
Ward, Henry

Wel;lver, William Henry
Weeks, George Franklin
Wever, Charles Herbert, P. M.
Whitney, George Hanna
Williams, George Sprague
Willie, Isadore
Wilson, Edward Rudolph
Wilson, Silvester Frank

263

Woodin, Eugene
Woodside, William John
Wright, George Thomas
Yablonsky, Jonn, P. M.
Young, Charles Frederick
Young, Lars Gustaf
Youngberg, John Emmanuel, P. M.
-403.

DORIC LODGE, No. 216.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Moses Milton Getz, Master,
Jesse Daniel Hannah, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Lane Scott, Sen. Warden,
Ben Levi, Junior Deacon,
Henry W. Watkins, Jun. Warden,
Albert S. Samuels, Marshal,
William Trebell, Treasurer,
Herbert Reuben Hicks, Steward,
Julius Raph. Goldsmith, Secretary, Alex. Francis Williams, Steward,
Wm. Henry Edmondson, •ryler.
Edward Wilson Currier, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Abraham, Charles Jacob
Abraham, Samuel
Abrams, Nathan
Adler, Nathan Max
Alexander, William
Allen, William Wallace, Jr.
Allingham, William
Anderson, Andrew Petter
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Olof
Andrews, Abraham
Arnheim, William Samuel
Asher, Hugo Kiewe
-Avan, John
Backstein, Ferdinand
Bacon, Charles Augustus
Badt, Alexander Lipschuetz
Bangs, Frank Calvin
Banks, William Oscar
Bareilles, John Parrott
Barsotti, Joseph

Bartlett, Frank August
Bauer, Adolph Charles, P. M.
.deck, Charles Louis
Becker, Johannes Paul
Behm, Alfried Herman
Behrend, David
Belvel, George Elijah
Bennett, George Washington
Bickley, John
Blum, Isidor Leon
Blume, Daniel
Blumenthal, Bello Julius
Bohle, Albert Frederick
Bosch, Peter
Boskowitz, George Henry
Breeding, William Henry
Bressi, Enrico Guiseppe
Buckley, Edward Murray
Burling, Augustus Bowie
Burn, James Edwin
Bush, Joseph Aaron

26-!

Caccia, Joseph
Cah.en, David Solomon
Cameron, William Burton
Campbell, George Tawse
Cassassa, Charles Henry
Chaban, Joseph
Chonette, Otto William, P. M.
Christensen, John
Christensen, Leonhard
Church, Joseph William
Clawson, Leonard Edwin
Coburn, Ira Winn
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Leon
Collins, Samuel Henry
C!>Ilway, John Francis
Cook, Morton Leon
Cooper, Samuel Marum ·
Copeland, William Glenn, P. M.
Cordes, Claus Henry
Creagh, John William
Crozier, Samuel
Cunningham, James
Curlett, William Frederick, P. M.
Currier, Edward Wilson
Dangers, Henry
Danziger, Simon
David, Joseph William Roland
Davis, Maurice William
Deal, William Griffith
Denker, Nicolas Carl
DeWitt, Frank Clinton
Dorn, Gus Emil
Dunand, Louis Frank, P. M.
Dyer, George Henry
Eber, Charles
Edmondson, William Henry
Edwards, Alfred Soule
Eichbaum, Chas. Williamson
Eickhoff, Hellry
Eisenbach, Julius
Elliot, Frederick Nelson
, Erickson, Antaari
Euphrat, Martin
Faircloth, Frank Thomas, P. M.

ROSTER.
Falk, Harry Henry
Falk, Morris
Ferral, Robert
Ferris, Crawford
Fershtand, Theodore
Finkler, Henry Charles
Fishel, David
Fisher, Moses
Fitzgerald, Robert Harrison
Flanagan, James
Floud, John William Rendell
Folsom, Eugene Hampton
Fontana, Frank Andrew
Fox, Morris
Fraser, John P., P. M.
Friedlander, David
Friedlander, Otto Wilhelm Anton
Friedman, Henry Albert
Friedman, Samuel
Gabriel, Julius Lester
Gall, Julius
Gasaner, Louis
Geddes, William
Gee, Charles Ezra
Gee, William Herbert
Geitner, Robert
Gelatte, Fred Gordan
Getz, Moses Milton
Gille, William Henry
Gillespie, William John
Goetze, Edward Henry
Goicovich, George John
Goldberg, Garrett Milton
Goldberg, Max
Goldsmith, Julius Raphael
Goldstein, Leon
Goodday, Jaeob Louis
Goodday, Louis, P. M.
Gorter, Herman Henry
Grant, Isaac
Gray, Frank Sidney
Gray, Lee
Gray, Thomas Henry
Green, Isaac Michael
Greenzweig, George
Groh, Anton Frederick

ROSTER.
Gunn, George L.
Gut, Carl
Gutman, Alexander
Haake, John Rud~lph
Hall, Frank Henry
Halla, Otto
·
Hannah, Jesse Daniel
Hansen, August Wilhelm Herman
Harris, Chester Sigmund
Harris, Samuel
Hartje, John Herman Frederick
Hassell, William Prescott
Haven, Acton
Healing, George
Heinicke, William Frederick
Heller, Joseph
Henderson, Alexander
Herzog, Joseph
Herzog, Maximillian
Herzog, Sidney Garfiehl
Herzog, George Kramer
Herzog, Sigfried Kramer
Hill, Thomas Locker, P. M.
Hoefler, Ludwig Mathias, P. M.
Hollidge, Harry Hamlin
Holmes, Harold Charles
Holmes, Henry Edmund
Hornblower, Frederick Augnst.11:1
Hosmer, George William
Isaac, Adolph
Isaacs, Louis Raymond
lten, August
lvanovich, Martin
Jacobs, Harold Wihl
Jacobs, Henry Albert
Jacobs, Murry
Jacobs, Myer
Jacobs, Sol
Janes, Graziano
Jewett, Albert Cavallo
Joel, Arthur Max
Johnson, Frederick Joseph
Johnson, Hans Christian
Jones, Samuel
Joslyn, William Edwin
Judell, Emil

Judis, Alphonse
Kalmuk, Louis
Kartschoke, Gustav
Katz, Charles
Kauffman, Leon
Keilus, Charles
Kellogg, Albert Crawford
Kendall, Alfred Thomas
Kendall, Robert
Kerrigan, Frank Henry
Klinger, Charles
Knox, Andrew Baird
Lefee, Manuel
Lande, Edward
Landgreen, William
Lange, Julius Frederick
Larkin, Harry
Larsen, Hans Henrik
Larsen, Niels
Lenoir, Gustave Abraham
Leszynsky, Isidor
Leudan, Joseph
Levenson, Samuel Millard
Levry, Benjamin Coleman
Levi, Ben
Levin, David
Levin, Jacob
Levison, Alex.
Levy, Adolph
Levy, Harold Walter
Levy, Jacob
Levy, 'Leopold Harry
Levy, Louis
Levy, Mark, Washington
Levy, Maurice
Levy, Morris Bernhard, P. M.
Levy, Morris Frank
Levy, Solomon
Lewin, Helmut
Liebman, Lloyd Harry
Lipman, Leopold
Little, Walter John
Logan, ·James Fraµcess, P. M.
Long, Edward Melvin
Lowe, Clarence Willie
Ludwig, Ernst Hubert

265

266

ROSTER.

Lustig, Daniel David
Packscher, Charles
Lyon, George Frederick
Paton, George
Macdonald, Charles
Peiser, Solomon
Magee, David Bartholomew
Pence, John Wilson
Mann, Leo
Peshon, Peter Alfred
Manzer, Frank Eugene
Peterson, Charles Gus. Ferd.
Manzer, Lonson Martin, P. M.
Pettersan, Gottfried Teodor
Marchus, David Edward
Phillips, Joseph James
Marks, Marcus
Pieroti, Henry Collingwood C.
Markwitz, Louis
Plant, Sydney Lomax
Martinoni, Emil
Plummer, Sanford.
Matthiesen, John Andreas Phillip · Pollak, Arnold
McCroskey, Cyrus Burr, P. M.
Porter, Royden Henry
McCullough, Thomas
Pratt, Alex.
Mendelson, Julius
Preddey, George Henry
Mendelsolm, Louis M.
Prince, Albert David
Meyer, Arthur
Prince, David Solomon
Meyers, John Jacob
Radulovich, Spiro
Miguel, Paul Shirley
Ragland, Rufus Ely
Mikkleson, Robert
Rainey, William Austin
Miller, James William
Raphael, James Greerson
Monro, William James
Read, William Parsons
Mooser, William
Reid, Rafe Robinson
Morris, Henry
Reiner, Charles Edward
Morris,.Saul Nathan
Reinhard, Sebastian Eilert
\
Morrison, Albert Charles
Reinhart, Manfred
Muller, William
Reinhart, Simon
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Reles, Peter
Myrson, Simon, P. M.
Riblet, Henry Nelson
Nagle, Richard Hamilton
Richardson, Willard Ashto11
N annestad, Henrik Elias
Riley, John Francis
Nassau, Samuel Nathan
Robertson, John Milne
Nathan, Aaron Riggs
Rosen, Carl Albin Amandns
Neal, Robert Waterman
Rosenberg, J osep.a
Nelson, Charles Frithof
Rosenheim, Samuel
Norberg, John
Rothenbusch, Carl Adolph
Nordman, Adolph
Rothschild, Abraham
Nye, Alex. Edwin Janette
Rothschild, Joseph
Nye, Joseph Merrill, Jr.
Rothschild, Lew
O'Connor, Joseph
Ruggles, Albert Burleigh
Oldis, Frank Evelyn
Rusconi, John Batista
Oleson, Christian
Salz, Edward
Olsen, Andrew
Samuels, Albert Samuel
Olsen, Peter Andrew
Sandstrom, Chas. August Phillip
Ormsby, Edgar Lionel
Schaertzer, Henry Conrad, P. M.
Ottinger, Adolph
Scharff, Jsaac Clare

ROSTER.

•••

Scheppler, Louis William
· Scheuch, Leopold
Schmalz, William
Schmidt, Carl H.
Schmidt, Ernst
Schoenfeld, Louis Simon, P. M.
Schraubstadter, Ernst
Schroder, Edward 'Henry
Schroeder, Fridrick William
Schuhl, Leon
Scott, Arthur George
Scott, William Lane
Seeley, Joseph
Se=el, Eduard
Short, John l}eorge
Short, Joseph Edward
Silver, Robert Napier
Silverstein, Jacob
Simon, Belmar
Sinclair, John Stewart
Sommerfield, Morris T.
Sperling, Frank
Spiero, Caesar Noah
Spreen, Carl Fred August
Stangenberger, George Bernard
Steers, Frank Morgan
Steinbach, Henry
Steiner, Theodore
Steinman, Carl Wilhelm Ferd.
Stokes, Henry Arthur
Strom, Christian
Swanberg, Charles Olif
Taylor, Carlton Maybin
Terrill, William Albert
Thomas, David John

Thomson, William Tobias
Thurston, Charles Paschal
Tilton, James Alex.
Trebell, John
Trebell, William, P. M.
Triest, Joseph
Tuttle, Leonard Russell
V ercevich, Adam Lazar
Walter, Nathan Leon
Warren, Charles Albert
Warshauer, Harry
Warshauer, Jacob
·watkins, Henry Ward
Watson, Horace Daniel
Weil, William Montague
Weinshenk, Sydney
Wheeler, Edward Alvin
White, Thomas Benton, P. M.
White, William Mercer
Wight, Frederick Lawrence, P. M.
Williams, Alex. Francis
Williamson, Henry, P. M.
Williamson, James Richard
Wilson, James
Wilson, James Ezra
Wither, William Mathew
Withers, Lewis Albert Thomas
Wobber, William Peter
Wolbach, Karl
Wolters, Theo. Ludwig
W oou;, Michael Joseph
Yarneberg, Charles
Young, Arthur Lawrie ·
Young, Herman Hartmann
Young, John Stuart-388.

MONTEREY LODGE, No.

•

I

267

217.

. Monterey, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full :Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ernest August Scholze, Master,
Tom Lee, Senior Deacon,
Chas. S. Olmsted, Sen. Warden,
John A. Johnson, Junior Deacon,
Meredith Chambre, Jun. Warden,
William Kay, Marshal,
Henry Alex. Olmsted, Treasurer,
Charles Newton Bennett, Steward,
Chas. Rerard Van Hove, Secretary, John George Geisler, Steward,
William James Towle, Tyler.

268

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Lambert, Thomas Grafton, P. M.
Anway, Clayton Loren
Lee, Tom, P. M.
Awl, Francie Asbury
Leppert, Joseph
Berry, Frank Swan
Little, David Spence
Bagby, Jacob War:ren
McMillen, Hiram
Bronson, Andrew
Mitchell, Robert G;rant
Brown, Wallace Clarence
Bennett, Charles Newton, P. M.
Moseley, Alex.
Boyce, Arthur Elliott
Manuel, Augustin Antoine
Bowler, William Emmons
Messe, George William
McMurphy, George Bailey
Birks, Riley
Chambre, Meredith
Olmsted, Henry Alex., P . M.
Clark, Amir Birno
Olmsted, Charles Shellman
Connelly, John Thomae·
Olmsted, Henry Martin
Patrick, John Randolph, P. M.
Cook, Theo. Webster
Currier, William Perkins
Parker, Will Emory
Davidson, James C.
Pierce, Frank
Pyburn, William Henry
Edwards, William Sawyer
Prinz, Herman Julius Otto
Garrick, Adolph
Grimes, Edward
Singleton, John Wesley
Gunzendorfer, Adolph
Stockdale, James Thomae
Swetnam, Isaac Newton
Gunzendorfer, Ferdinand
Scholze, Ernest August, P. M.
Goldstine, Samuel
Schwarzenleck, Frank Xavier
Gould, Fred Colwell
Hewitt, William John
Stanberry, Raleigh J.
Hilby, Francis Martin
Seneetrari, Jacob Theo.
Hove, Charles Gerard Van
Towle, William Jamee
Tustin, Thomas Reeves
Jacks, Will, 1!'· M.
Johnson, John Aleck
Wright, Jonathan
Kay, William, P. M.
Wroble, John Goodell
-59.
Kennedy, Leo Eugene

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.
Livermore, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
August Hagemann, Master,
William F. Johnson, 8eniot Deacon,
C. Fred'k Mess, Sen. Warden,
Philip H. McVicar, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur L. Henry, Jun. Wnrden,
Wm. Henry Wright, Marshal,
George Edwin Kennedy, Treasurer, Diedrich Dieckhoft', Stewnrd,
William Schluter, Secretary,
Silas L. Savage, Steward,
Jamee B. Stone, Chaplain,
JohI> H. Wilson, Tyler.

ROSTER.
MEMBER~:

Anderson, James
.Anepacher, Simon
., Armstrong, John
Bailey, Hira~
Barker, Benjamin Philips
Brumbough, James
Barnes, George Robertson
Barzelotti, Louis Francis
Beck, Madison Hartwell
Bonora, Victor ·F.
Bowles, Je11ee
Bernal, Denis Filbert
Bangs, William Edgar
Black, Frank Simpson
Burns, Herman Luther
Brady, Thomas Francis
Crose, Henry N eleon
Clarke, James William
Demartini, Antonia
Decker, Henry Harrison
Dieckhoff, Diedrick
Duncan, Arthur Clarence
Fassett, Francis Ronello, P. M.
Fish, Albert Lester
Fish, Gardner Canfield
Foster, Arthur Owen
Gerst, Edgar Anspacher
Graner, Adolph Thomas
Herbert, William
Henry, Arthur Lindsay
Hagemann, August, P . M.
Hayes, John Carey, P. M.
Holmes, Nathaniel Breed
Hortenstine, John Baker
Hunter, John Ramsey
Hunter, Ruben
Hutchinson, James
Inman, Daniel
Johnson, Lawrence Westerfield
Johnson, William Frederick
Jones, Lewis Glynn
Joseph, Isaac C.
Kennedy, George Edwin, P. M.
Lowenthal, William Baum

Lafever, Howard
McGill, Henry Gordon
McKown, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
McDonald, David
McVicar, Philip Hugh
Mees, Charles Frederick
Munch, Charles Gottlieb
Meyers, Jacob Franklin
Norton, James T.
Owens, Owen Thomas
Peterson, Charles Lorize
Pray, Clarence Syme
Randell, Maurice
Reimers, John Claus
Rowlands, Edmund
Smith, Lewis Henry
Savage, Silas Lee
Schrader, Frederick August
Shierloh, Henry
Schluter, William
Scott, Thomas
Seller, Samuel
Seller, Herbert Anspacher
Stone, James Blackwood
Taylor, Andrew Charles
Tretzel, Frederick William
Taylor, Joseph Hardy, P. M.
Taylor, William Stewart
Taylor, William Henry
Teeter, Daniel Marian
Teeter, Frank Ransom
Therkof, George Alex.
Treaqwelli Edward Clinch
Venn, Thomas
Victor, Charles Solomo11.
Warran, William Theo.
Warner, James Kyle
Wells, Charles Samuel
Wells, John Thomas FarlerWente, Carl Heinrick
Williams, Richard Griffiths.
Wilson, John Hodgson
Wright, William Henry, P. M.
Wetmore, Clarence Jesse-88.

269

270

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

SPERANZA ITALIANA LODGE, No. 219.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFl'ICERS:
Luigi Valsangiacomo, Master,
Pietro Martina, Senior DP.aeon,
John Icardo, Senior Warden,
Giorgio A. Dondero, Jun. Deacon,
Perseo Righetti, Junior Warden,
Dario Perrone, Marshal,
Giuseppe Carlo Sala, Treasurer,
James _Frank Martinoni, Steward,
Giovanni Scalmanini, Secretary,
Ginotto Marioni, Steward,
George J. Goicovich, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Andreazzi, Ubaldo
Carfagni, Pietro
Balzarini, Carlo, P. M.
Delmonte, Angelo
Blanco, Antonio Bua
Davini, Andrea, P. M.
Bazzini, Giovanni
Domenici, Basilio
Bini, Giuseppe, P. M.
Dell 'Osso, Carlo
Bianchi, Carlo
Damonte, Antonio
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Digrazia, Lorenzo, P. M.
Bacigalupi, Paolo
Delsoa, Francesco
Bacigalupi, Giovanni
Demartini, Filippo, P. M.
Bacigalupi, Luigi Domenico
Devoto, James August, P. M.
Bozzetti, Ippolito
Dongo, Luigi
Delsol, Giovanni Francesco
Belli, Silvio
Demartini, Luigi
Beccuti, Giuseppe, P. M.
Bianucci, Pietro
Del Carlo, Giuseppe
DeBono, Giovanni
Bozzo, Michele
Bosia, Guglielmo
De Julio, Cristoforo
Dondero, Aurelio George
Bulotti, Giovanni
De Farrari, Fred ·
Bonfigli, Emilio
Cassaretto, Giovanni
Demartini, Paolo
Eluro, Antonio
Cereghino, Luigi
Costamagna, Pietro
Fantina, Antonio
Cordano, Giovanni Battista, P. M. .l!'ochetti, Mattia
Compagno, Matteo
Fontana, Marco G.
Chiappari, Giovanni
.r'ontana, Giusto
Canepa, Giuseppe
Fodera, Antonio
Cavagnaro, Carlo Mario
Filippini, Felice
Cariani, Luigi
Fiorio, Silvio
Condari, Teodoro
Guanziroli, Luigi
Cuneo, Giovanni
Garibaldi, Giovanni
Costantini, Stanislao
Garibaldi, Giacomo
Gaibaclo, Giacomo
Cuneo, Tomaso
Canepa, Lorenzo
Gadina, Pietro
Ghnir.i, /. mbrose
Cominoli, Giuseppe

j

Galeoto, Severino
Gotelli, Lorenzo
Grondono, Carlo Francese:>
Greco, Francesco
(.tiancoli, Pie~ro
Icardo, Giovanni
Iaccheri, Garibaldo
Lagomarsino, Carto
Lagomarsino, Giacomo
Leonardi, Salvatore
Lepori, Giovanni, P. M.
Levaggi, Giovanni Battista
Lorenzen, Frederick
Lonigo, Victor Emilio
Maggio Fortunato
Mancini, Augusto
Marcacci, Antonio
Marchi, Giovanni
Marini, Luigi
Marioni, Ginotto
Marsili, Giuseppe
Martina, Pietro
Martinoni, James Frank
Masoero, Cesare
Micheletti, Pietro
Micheletti, Italo
Micheletti, Alfredo Angelo
Messina, Luigi Candido
Monotti, Alfredo
Minelli, Zanabi
Mino, Giovanni
Nave, Pietro Nave
Negro, Guiseppe
Nicholas, N ahan
Onesti, Guiseppe, P. M.
· Puccinelli, Vincenzo
Passalacqua, Benedetto
Podesta, Guiseppe
Pedrotta, Guiseppe Antonio
Poli, Ciro
Paladini, Achille

Pesenti, Carlo
Perata, Pietro
Puccinelli, Archimede
Perrone, Dario
· Peini, Clemente
Russi, Bartolo Pietro
Rossi, Giovanni Frank
Rittori, Edoardo
Righetti, Perseo
Rossi, Anselmo
Rusconi, Gottardo
Sala, Giuseppe Carlo, P. M.
Scalmanini, Carlo, P. M.
Scalmanini, Giovanni, P. M,
Scalmanini, A. Beniamino, P. M.
Sbarboro, Andrea
Sresovich, Luke
Sanguinetti, Guiseppe
Stuparich, Stefano
Stuparich, Nicola
Stafford, Giovanni
Simoni, Pio
Slavich, George
Torre, Giovanni
Torre, Constantino
Torre, Ottavio
Tonini, Michele Gaudenzi•)
Torello, Emilio
·.napani, Antonio
Tassi, Antonio
•romasini, Filiberto
Tomasini, Guis'eppe Rolindo
Toso, Marcellino
Venturi, Talete
Valvo, Guiseppe
V alsangiacomo, Luigi
Vitalioni, Alfredo·
Verga, Guiseppe
Zabaldano, Alessandro, P. M.
Zeiro, Filippo
Zunini, Domenico-148.

271

ROSTER.

272

ROSTER.

DOWNEY LODGE, No. 220.

INYO LODGE, No.

Downey, Los Angeles County.

273
221.

Independence, Inyo County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full .Moon.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Toy Berry Gibson, Master,
Charles R. Church, Senior Warden,
Albert P. Henry, Junior Warden,
Arthur L. Darby, Treasurer,
Leonard Rupert Paxton, Secretary,
Algernon Sidney Gray, Chaplain,

Robert Lee Scott, Senior Dea.con,
Robt. Bills Harper, Jullior Deacon,
Julius Harris Ardis, Marshal,
Robert Berry Mayes, Steward,
Charles Mallory Whaley, Steward,
Barney William Shanker, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ardis, John Dawson, P. M. ·
Ardis, Julius Harris, P. M.
A~ey, Rubin Byron
Baruch, Berthold
.
Brunson, Edward Atherton
Burke, Samuel W.
Caruthers, William
Church, Charles Robert
Condit, William Robert
Darby, Arthur Llewellyn
Dorman, Dudley M.
East, George Earl
Fanning, Burton Everett
Garrison, James Addison
Gibson, Toy Berry
Gray, Algernoi;i Sidney
Gray, Austin Newell
Hall, Alonzo
Harper, Robert Bills
Harris, Ranse Bird, P. M.
Haygood, Atticus Greene, P. M.
Henry, Albert Perry, P. M.
Henshaw, George Marshall
Houghton, Lake William
Hull, Denton Elias
Lally, James Mathias
Lawrence, Elmer William
Loew, Jacob

Martin, Frank Emerson, P. M.
Mayes, Robert Berry
Mitchell, Parley Chapman, P. M.
Monahan, Patrick
Neighbours, Burrel David
Orr, William Warren
Parker, John Robert
Paxton, Leonard Rupert
Pendleton, Matthew Rainty, P. M.
Perkins, John Frsnklin
Ralph, James William
Ramp, William
Re.nfro, Thomas Faulkner, P. M.
Rowley, Quinton John, P. M.
Ryan, Andrew William
Shanker; Barney William
Shelley, Walter l<Tancis John
Shoemaker, Frederick Willcox
Steinart, Jacob
Stewart, Alex.
Stewart, Albert Julius
Stewart, James
Taylor, George Washington
Towne, 0. P.
Venable, Jo1rnph William, P. M.
Wathen, John Bush
Whaley, Charles Mallory
Woodward, Samuel Kitc~ens.-56.

OFFICERS:
William Lyle Skinner, Master,
George D. Calvert, Senior Deacon,
James E. Shepherd, Sen. \Varden,
Wm. Paul Mairs, Junior Deacon,
Max McCune Skinner, Jun. Warden, Lloyd de V. Skinner, Marshal,
Julian E. Eibeshutz, Treasurer,
John S. Gorman, Steward,
William Daniel Dehy, Secretary,
Irving H. Mullholland, Steward,
Jarius D. Mairs, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anton, John Charles
Brady, James
Colvert, George Dallas
Conklin, Norman Edward
Cross, Ernest Lyon
Dehy, William Daniel
Eibeshutz, Aaron Washington
Eibeshutz, Julian E.
Forbes, Peter Wallace, P. M.
Fowle, James Elcho Zare
Gorman, John Sarsfield, P. M.
Gregg, Stephen Gregg
Harvey, Alvey Curtis
Johnson, David Allen
Lewis, George Hubert
Laird, John Wash. Pierce
Libbey, Jason Mariner
Mairs, Omie Isaac
Mairs, Jarius David
Mairs, Norman J.
Mairs, William Paul
Mack, P1;1trick Henry, P. M.
Miller, William Shuman
Meroney, William Oscar
Meroney, John Edgar

18

Mulholland, Irving Harvey, P. M. _
McKenzie, James Alex., P. M.
McLean, John Gregor
McLean, Neil
McMurry, Samuel Jackson
Neil, Albert Augustus
Piper, Noah Twidney
Richards, William McAlli:1ter
Rhine, Bertrand
Shepperd, John, P. M.
Sheppard, John Arthur
Sheppard, James Edward
Skinner, Joseph Villey
Skinner, Max McCune
Skinner, William Lyle
Skinner, Lloyd de V.
Steele, Charles Henry
Spear, Frederick R.
Thurston, Samuel D.
Walker, August
Walker1 Webs~r Hilton
Wright, James William
Yaney, Israel Putnam, Jr.
Yandell, Benjamin Hart
-49.

ROSTER.

274

GRANITE LODGE, No. 222.

ROSTER.

BAKERSFIELD LODGE, No. 224.

Rocklin, Placer County.

Bakersfield, Kem County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full ·Moon.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Albert Maurice Grindell, Master,
Louis Barrett, Senior Dea('.on,
Colin Hislop, Senior Warden, ·
Richard H. Wells, Junior Deacon,
Frank Madison, Junior Warden,
Isidor Levison, Marshji.l,
Samuel Oscar Odom, Treasurer,
Charles Wilson Winne, Steward,
William Huff, Secretary,
Ralf Lewis Stafford, Steward,
Edward Leonard Layton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Astill, James
Butler, Frank Albert
Brenton, Walter
Burchard, George Henry
Boltz, Clyde Harry
Biscoe, Walter Fred
Boston, Harry Elsworth
Barrett, Lewis
Connor, John Michael
Clark, George Burt
Craig, ~oy Hugh
Duggan, Charles Martin
Day, Joseph Calhoun
Dyer, John Ralston
Dyer, Jay Ralston
Delano, Ira Lemuel, P. M.
Duncan, Charles Douglass
Dickey, David Allen
Dwelleg, Nelson Shields
Ertle, John
Ford, James Casper
Filson, Lee
Grindell, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Hartje, Charles Samuel
Hislop, Colin
Holder, John
Huff, William
Hanisch, AlVin August
Hill, Forest Carlyle
Ketcham, Marvin

Kelly, James
Levison, Isidor
Layton, Edward Leonard
Madison, Frank
Maker, Rufus
Mears, Edward Thomas
McKellips, Daniel Ozmon
Mullinix, Henry David
Newton, Thomas
·,
Nicol, William, P. M.
Odom, Samuel Oscar
Panabaker, Edward Elsworth
Philippi, Carl John, P. M.
Roberts, William John
Sterling, Edward Eugene
Scribner, Ernest Thompson
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Stafford, Ralph Lewis, P. M.
Sweeney, John, P. M.
Thyle, Alvin Clarence
Trippett, Homer Charles
Vivaldo, Paul
Van Maren, Philip
Winne, Charles Wilson
Whallou, Samuel Norton
Woodbridge, Bradford
W amington, Clarence Elmer
Wanek, Christy James
/
Wells, Richard llerbert
Wentworth, Samuel Augustus-60.

275

OFFICERS:
Arthur Saxe Crites, Master,
Jabez Right Gist, Senior Deacon,
George G. Hutchings, Sen. Warden, Wm. Griffin Hall, Junior Deacon,
Edward B. Hayden,· Jun. Warden, James Campbell Payne, Marshal,
Frank Wilkins Robinson, Treasurel', John Henry Ohrr, Steward,
Alonzo Deeble Whittemore, Sec.,
Claude Raymond Blodget, Steward,
Walter James, Chaplain,
James Benjamin Hunt, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alexander, Abraham
Caldwell, Alonzo
Alexander, Charles Lee
Camp, Frank Bartlett
Anderson, Calvin Vance
Carson, John Lovell
Anderson, Robert Merryw<'ther
Clay, William Oliver
Arnold, Clarence Edmond
Comer, Edward H.
Arp, James Harris
Condict, Henry Ford
Baer, Charles. Eugene
Congdon, Charles Henry
Baer, Edward Arthur
Conner, Caswell Lee, P, M.
Baer, Reuben Henry
, Coons, William Henry
Baker, James Edwin
Carr, John Henry
Barnes, Henry Humphrey
Correa, George Augustus
Barnes, John Waddington Harry
Crease, Fred John
Beal, Eldon Marius ·
Crites, Arthur Saxe
Beatty, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Crites, George Solomon
Beer, Lucian
Cruthers, Frank Dravo
Bender, Herbert Jacob
Darmes, Harry
Bickerdike, Charles
Forsyth, Donald Herman
Blodget, Hugh Allen, P. M.
Fox, Charles Douglas
Blodget, Claude Raymond
Frisselle, Ralph
Blodget, Percy Langdon
Fry, John Adolphus
Blodget, Rush Maxwell
. Foster, George Emory
Boggs, William Spencer
Fox, Jesse Price
Bradford, qharles. Edwin
Formway,.Louis Englehart
Brench, William
Gillespie, Robert Martin
Brockman, John W.
Glover, Thomas William
Brower, Celcus
Grant, Robert Elmore
Brown, Andrew
Graham, William John
Brundage, Benjamin Leonard ·
.G arfield, Clyde Sherman
Brundage, Benjamin, P. M.
Glenn, Ira Huston, P. M.
Bryant, Oscar Marion
Gist, Jabez Right
Buck, Howard Burdett
Hack, Frederick Bernard
Byrne, Nicholas
Hageman, Benjamin Stryker
Cabe, Albert Lee ·
Hardman, E<lmond J .

276

ROSTER.

McDougal, Benjamin Greer
Hunt, James Benjamin, P. M.
McKee, George Sidney
Hussey, Ralph Harman
McKelvey, Lewis
Humiston, Charles
McRae, Alex. William
Hutchings, George Gr$nt
McLane, Robert Bruce
Handy, Thomae Benjamin
Neill, Hugh
Hayden, Edward Blaine
Neill, John
Heard, John Wilkerson
Neill, Robert
Hall, William Griffin
Ober, George Kimball
Henshaw, Holmes
Payne, James Campbell
Innes, John
Rice, Frank Sabinus, P. M.
James, Walter
Robinson, Frank Wilkin, P. M.
Jastro, Henry Alex., P. M.
Rogers, Lewis Styles, p. M.
J errue, Daniel Bernard
.tt.oes, Lyman Caskey
Johnson, DeWitt Wallace
Rousseau, Elijah
Judd, Stoel Morrie
Rogers, Homer
Jamison, John Mack
Reynolds, George Ap.gu~tine
Jackson, James Reynolds
Roberts, John Ellsworth
Jones, Augustus Guy
Sawyer, Frank Newcomb
Kaye, William Wallace, P. M.
Schamblin, Gustav
Kaar, John
Snook, John
Kimball, Will S.
Stern, Louie
King, Layton Judd
Stroble, Godfrey F.
Low, John Alex.
Stockton, Christopher Cohmbus
Lupton, George William
Swain, Arthur Hussey, P. M.
Longacre, John Jackson
Stoll, Charles Michael, P. M.
Laird, Herbert }'rank
Stuart, Harry Grant
Mason, Harry P.
Sallee, George Hunter
Mack, Julius Jacob
Sornberger, William Oscar
Macmurdo, Wirt Robinson, P. M.
Snell, Frank Sebastian
Maio, Charles Francis
Stewart, Johnson
Medina, John Blancarte
Meyers, William Christian Ludwig Sayce, Charles Tordi:ffee
Smith, Jesse Murray
Munzer, Francis George
Smith, Byron Ellis
Miller, Isa11.c Leffler
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
ll;[ilne, James
Segur, Clyde Harry
Morris, Charles Alfred
Snyder, Frederick William
Metzgar, Elias Burges
Taggart, Thomas Edwin
Morrow, Robert Ewing
Tibbetts, Willie Edmond
Mullins, Stephen D.
Tubbs, Elba Auston
Murray, Peter Allen
Tupman, Hamer Irvin
Mahon, Jackson W.
Tyler, William
Morley, Joseph. Vivian
Target, Ernest Arthur
Munsey, Elbert Po~ter
Tilton, George Albert
Morton, Albert Suµiper
Taylor, Floy Joshua
McClure, Frank D.
McCoy, He~ry Dohrman
Van Vleck, John Dorsey

ROSTER.

•

Weill, Alphonse, P. M.
Whittemore, Alonzo Deeble
Whittemore, ·1 Iarry Deeble, P. M.
Wiard, George Edward
Wible, Samuel Peter
Wright, Ernest William
whor:ff, Franklin Teed
Whittekin, Ralph Oscar

277

Weir, Dillard Spencer
Walker, Charles Thomae
Warren, George Randall
Webber, William John
Wilbur, Parker Swift
Williams, Hibbard Smith
Whitaker, Perry.
_;_173_

BROOKLYN LODGE, No.

225.

East Oakland, Alameda County .
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Herbert Pasha Briggs, Master,
Joseph Petty, Senior Deacon,
Walter J. Petersen, Sen. Warden,
Walter Fearey Vane, Junior Deacon,
Edwin L. Sargent, Jun. ,Warden,
George Earle Kelly, Marshal,
George Henry True, Trea~urer,
William Haynes Hall, Steward,
John Charles Foster, Secretary,
Charles Henry Davies, Steward,
Thomas B. R. Crandell, Chaplain,
Emanuel Lucas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Alex. Watson
Anderson, Archibald Borhnd
Anderson, Franklin Pierce
Anderson, Thomas, Jr.
Ayer, Richard Bartlett
Back, Martin Andersen
Backus, Matthew Watson
Baker, John William
Bangle, Edward
Berg, Aaron
Berg, William Meyer
Black, Samuel Thorburn
Bontan, Leonard
Bray, Anthony
Briggs; Herbert Pash"a
Brooks, James Hil:am ·
Brown, Henry Augiis.fos
Buswell, John Gill
Campbell, John Alex., P. M.
Campbell, Murdock
Campbell, Robert Vernon
Capell, Howell Pratt, P. M.

Castellanos, Salvador
Christiansen, Nie
Cobbledick, Levans Newsom
Cohick, Walter Hildebrand, i>. M.
Cohn, Abrah~m 8.
Colvin, Fred tlenry
Conklin, Frank 'Granger
Cook, Frank Bigelow
Cool, Russell Hopkins
Copeland, Alex.
Corbett, Joseph Bailey
Corrigan, Clyde f;'!inclair
Cowell, 'Charles Herbert
Cowell, Richard
Cox, J ame!l w ·a rren
'Crandell, Harry Arnold
'Crandell, Thomas B. Ripley, P. M.
'Cumming, 'Geo.r ge Gordon
Davies, Charles Henry
Davie, Elliott Harrington
Davie, Reeves
DeMooy, Harry Bernard

278
Dennis, George A.
Dickinson, William Edwin
Dingley, Charles Llewellyn
Doane, R_a ymond Orrine
Donaldson, William Augustus
Dow, William Alonzo
Downey, John Charles, P. M.
Dunbar, Joshua
Dunn, Daniel C'.
Eliassen, Edward Russell
Ellison, Caleb Heacock
English, Norris
Espey, Robert Hamilton Edwin
Evans, John Walter, P. M.
Evans, William Robert, P. M.
Everett, Frank Inches
Faunt, William John
Felley, Philomen Henry
Fish, Darwin Seth
Forsting, Lester William
Foster, John Charles,.P. M.
Frederickson, Vernor
French, George Thomas vVeadon
Fuller, Amos Leighton
Fu~gason, Charles Horace
Gardiner, Thomas Moir
Gibbs, William Thomae, P . M.
Gillam, J e:fferson
Goff, Henry Franklin, .P'. M.
Grandjean, Eugene Henry
Gray, Robert Wallace
Griffins, Benjamin Hall
Grimes, Everett Mason
Jiall, William Haynes
Halsey, Henry Luther
Hambleton, Charles George
Harbinson, George Washington
Hartman, George Bressler
Harvey, Lewis Perry, Sr.
Hassard, Henry Houston, Sr.
Hatch, John Davis
Hatch, Theo. Henry, P. M.
Hawkins, John Timothy
Hayden, Kenneth McKenzie
Hazen, Edson
J{eath, George Brown

ROSTER.
Henderson, Herbert Beal
Henderson, John Ezra
Henshaw,· William Griffith
Hermansen, Herman Christian
Hill, Frederick
Hill, Robert
Hill, Robert Benjamin
Hodge, Charles
.Jackson, Clyde
Jackson, Edwin Rushmore
Jarvis, Charles Fritz Howard
Jess, William
Johnson; Emil Edward
Keller, David Conrad
Kelley, John Joseph, P. M.
Kempkey, Augustus, Jr.
Kempkey, Augustus Fred :.k Carl
Kelly, George Earle
·
Kirkho:ff, Clay
Koppikus, Dudley William
Krause, Frederick Low
Lamb, Willis
Leach, Harvey William
Lewis, Irving Cowham
Lincoln, Charles ·
Lindsey,· Albert Wheeler
Lorenzen, Niels Christian
Lucas, Emanuel
Mason, George Henry
Mason, William Cowan
Magill, Arthur Edward, .fr.
Mazor, Milton
McLaughlin, David Henry
McLean, James
Mead, Lewis Risdon, P . M.
Melvin, Henry Alex.
Miller, Charles
Miller, James
Miller, John William
Money, William Thomas Caleb
Muir, Andrew Robertson
Myers, Peter Johnathan
Newell, Chester V.
Norris, Thomas Wayne
Orra, Camille Frank
Pedersen, Bernhard Stork

ROSTER.

...

t

Perkins, Fred Wilbur
Petersen, Walter Joseph
Petty, John
Petty, John Arthur, P. M.
Petty, Joseph
Petty, Rowland
Pfenninger, Hermann
Phillips, John Waterman, P. M.
Pierce, Howard Haynes
Plunkett, James Arthur
Pond, James Haven
Randle, Franklin Gilder
Read, Alfred Christopher P.
Rees, Howard Horace
Rennie, Francis John
Rice, Calvin Bacon
Rowe, Harrison D.
Ruppert, Charles Henry
Rutledge, William
Sabin, John Murray, Jr.
Samuels, Samuel
Sargeant, Edwin Lyman
Scherling, Ferdinand Chades C.
Schmidt, Theo. August
· Schulze, Henry Atherton
Scott, John Walker
Seal, Alfred Blake
Seither, Frederick William, P . M.
Shapter, William
Simmen, Samuel
Smith, Byron Grover
Smith, Charles Born, P. M.
Smith, Clayton Kerper

279

Smith, Frank Milton
Soule, Beach Carter
Spradlin, Charles Blanchard
Stewart, Frank Holman
Stewart, Michael Young
Stirling, Charles
St. Johnson, William Howard R.
Stowe, Charles Edward
Sutherland, William Archibald
Swift, Charles Ingham
Swift, Samuel Crosby
Tate, George
Thomas, John Hiram
Thomas, William David
Todd, William Platt
True, George Henry
Tunley, Adam Tinley
Vandercock, Edward Pickett
Vane, Walter Fearey
Vockel, Herman Theo.
Warren; Granville Dexter, P. M.
Webster, James Alvan, P. M.
Webster, Jonathan Vinson, P. M.
Welch, Bert Henry
Wentworth, Charles Oscar
West, Ross Raymond
Wethern, George Hiram
Wilcox, Wilbur J a.irus
· Williams, Eugene Francis
.Williams, George Roscoe, P. M.
Woodworth, James Lemuel
Wold, Edwin J.
-201.

SAN MATEO LODGE, No.

226.

San Mateo, San Mateo County.
Stated Mee~ngs, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Daniel Webster Donnelly, Master, Lewis A. Smith, Senior Deacon,
Walter L. Johnstone, Sen. warden, Chas. A. Wainwright, Jun. Deacon,
Grove Lawrence, Junior Warden,
C. A. M. Vandenbos, Marshal,
Fernand Levy, Treasurer,
Carleton E. Durrell, Steward,
Eddy S. Moulton, Secretary,
Robert A. Edwards, Steward,
William A. Brewer, Chaplain,
Christ Eskilson, Tyler.

280
Allen, Fred Walter
Appleton, William
Barron, Andrew Sculley
Bettelheim, Paul
Bigelow, 9'eorge Albert
BlackbuFn, Daniel Edward
Bonner, Robert
Bonzani, Antonio
Borden, Charles Wightman
Brewer, William Augustus
Brill, Arthur Thaddeus
Buchanan, Edward
Davids, Charles Henry
Donnelly, Daniel Webster
DreRbach, Charles Leslie
Duncan, George, ' p, M.
Durrell, Carleton Edgar
Edwards, Robert Alfred
Emerson, Mark
Eskilson, Christ
Fillmore, Fred .6urnett, P. M.
Fisher, Carl Wallace
Green, Milton James, P. M.
Hansen, Albert .Marquid Otto
Hatch; Alvin Schuyler
Hatch, James
Hatch, John Henry
Hatch, Rufus Henry
Hartley, Griffith Price
Henwood, Ar.thur William
Heyman, Jules Jonas
Hodges,.Judson Chase
Howard, Victor St. Clair
Ignace, Ernest
Johnston, James Gilbert
Johnstone, Walter Lea
Jury, Richard Henry
Keeling, George
Kennedy, Joseph
Laffranchi, Antonio
•
Larson, John

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Lawrence, Grove
Lawrence, Jacinto
Lawrence, William Babco<'k, P. M.
Lea, Henry Elford, P. !..tr.
Levy, Fernand
Levy, Fernand A.
Levy, Joseph, P. M.
Levy, Armand Archer
Luff, Herbert, P. M.
Maier, Henry
Mead, Benjamin L.
McCracken, John Porter
. Milliken, Albert
Molzen, August Henry P11ul
Moulton, Eddy Stillman
Nelson, Horace
Nelson, William
Norris, William Lee
Painton, Harry Renowden
Par kin, Frederick
Peckham, John Bryant
Penton, Jesse, P. M.
Rowles, Robert Allen
Repsold, Amandus
Robb, Jesse Calvin
Royden, Herb'ert Nathan
Russell, John
Sanderson, Fred 0-rant
Schneider, William Rudolph
·smart, William Vernon
Smith, Lewis Ausson
Sneath, George Richard
Soule, John Alden, P. M.
Thompson, Hiram Walter
Tilton, Howard Quincy
Turnbull, William Fisher
Wainwright, Charles Arthu)
Wigger, Henry
Wisnom, John
Wood, Thomas

,

•

ROSTER.

ATHENS LODGE, No.

281
228.

Davisville, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full .M oon.
OFFICERS:
Franklin Benjamin Wire, Master, · Benjamin B. Tuttle, Seni~r Deacon,
Elzy, James Wire, Senior Warden, Carl Theo. Oeste, Junior Deacon,
Hugh Robson, Junior Warden,
William Ogburn Russell, Marshal,
J'ohn B. Anderson, '1'reasurer,
Henry Jacob Hamel, Steward,
Arthur C. Hillman, Secretary,
Thomas William Gallion, Steward,
George 'Stamp, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
,._nderson, John B.
Bates; Walter 'Ernest, P. M.
Brady, Patrick H., P. M.
Brady, Thomas, P. M.
Brunson, Ruben B., P. M.
Boatright, James Albert
Carey, George Ransome
Chamberlin, Vincent J.
Dicky, Thomas John
Dietrich, Charles John
Gallion, Thomas WiHiam
Gude, Richard
Greene, Charles Eamond, P. M.
Gallagher, Joseph James, P. M.
Haussler, George John
Haussler, William Frederick J.
Hamel, Henry, P. M.
Hamel, George Frederick, P. M.
Hamel, HeDry Jacob
Hamel, William Charles
Henle, John Frederick, P. M.
Henle, Joseph
Hite, Bert
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Johnson, Henry Foster
Klays, Addison
Keser, Louis

Lehrman, August Fred
Libby, Alvin Bates
Maddox, Charles Wesley
Nutt, Lincoln
Oeste, Carl Theo.
Pedrazzinni, Peter
Read, Walter G.
Reid, Samuel McNeir
Reith, John, Jr.
Russel, Frank Edwin
Russel, William Ogburn, i!. M.
Robson, Hugh A.
Snider, Eli
Stamp, George
Sanders, Samuel S.
Sharp, Myron Phillander
Smith, Frederick Philo
Taylor, Jo·h n
Tuft, Andrew Jackson
Tuttle, Benjamin B.
Weber, Frank
Wire, Franklin Benjamin, P. M.
Wire, Jam!ls Elr:y
\v.oods, Williatit L<toi:s, P. 1'.L. ·
Wyatt,, Walter
Wilson, Frederick WarneT
""""53.

..
282

ROSTER.

SOLANO LODGE, No;

ROSTER.
229.

Vallejo, Solano CoUilty.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Hewitt Peabody, Master,
John Ramsay, Senior Deacon,
John F. Walters, Senior Warden,
Wm. Thomas Street, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Brown Diek, Jun. Warden, James Ed. Sanderson, Marshal,
Melchoir Kemper, Treasurer, .
Albert Stanton Miskin, Steward,
Alonzo S. Halliday, Secretary,
Robert George Lockwood, St,e ward,
Adam A. McAllister, Chaplain,
Zachariah A. Jamison, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, John Quincy, P. M.
Flatland, Martin
Anderson, Carl
Frahm, Henry August
Anderson, William Oliver
Fritshaw, Chester
Aunette, James Lovell
Garland, Fred Hildreth
Arnold, Chadwick Evans
Gee, William, Jr., P. M.
Atkins, George
Gee, James, Jr., P. M.
Bassford, Fordham ·clay
Giant, Mathew Kenark
Basson, William
Gills, Adam
Baumeister, Edward EmK-y
Goldman, George Rowland
Bessing, Joseph Jaques
Halliday, Alonzo Sherman, P. M.
.lilack, Frank J erry
Halliday, George Grant
Bragonier, Oscar
Harrier, Louis Garaboldi, P. M.
Brownridge, George Thoma.a
Harrier, George Gregory
Burrall, Charles Frederick
Harris, George Gregory
Chadwick, George Birney
Hatch, Charles Napier
Clyne, John Ross
Hayford, Oscar William
CO'ghlan, Joseph Bulloch, P. M.
Hill, Carl Albin
Cooper, Johnston Hilliard, P. M.
Hoey, Hugh Dennis
Cox, James Luther
Holtog, Jorgen Jacob
Damstedt, Neil Carl
Hosung, Charles Henry
Deboldt, Frederick Rufus, P. M.
Huntington, Edward Talmadge
Demmon, George Washington
Hyde, Calvin Lamphere, I.'. M.
Dempsey, Harrison Edward
Irvine, John
Dempsey, Robert Boune
Itrich, Franz Antone
Dick, Thomas· Brown
Jacobsen, Uharles Simon
Donnel, Albert Franklin
Jamison, Zachariah Antonio
Dufour, ·Dempsey Franklyn,P. M.
Johnson, Seward Thomas
Douglass, Charles Wallace
Johnson, Jesse Claude
Doolittle, Robert Curtis
Jones, Humphrey B.
Edmonston, Brook
Jones, Thomas David
Eklundh, Carl Frederick
Jones, Thomas William
Evans, Joel Clements
Judd, Edward Clarence
Farnham, John, P. M.
Kell, Edward Eleazer
Fisch, Fred
Kemper, Melchoir
Fitzgerald, Clarence Ashbury
Larmour, Harry

•

....

Langhlin, Bernard
Laviere, Frank
Lazelle, Henry Daniel, P. M.
Leavitt, Daniel Henry
Lemon, Frank Bertrand
Lockwood, Robert George
Loefller, John Melchoir
Lovell, Adrian Philip
Marshall, James
Melv'n, Nathaniel
Michael, Harry LockwooJ
Miller, Frederick Heinrich Tueo.
Miskin, Albert Stanton
Morris, Frank Napoleon, P. M.
Murray, Samuel
MacLean, David
MacLean, James Hay
McAlister, Adam Armstr:>ng
Mccarte, George
McCool, Daniel Miller
McDonald, Charles Wood
McNally, Michael Joseph
Nagle, Richard Wellington
Nielsen, Niels
Nord, Johan
Olson, Erland
Olsen, Ole
Patitta, Luigi
Peabody, Frank Joseph
Peabody, George Hewitt
Pedersen, James Peter
Petrie, Robert Grant
Pressey, William Brown
Raahange, Robert

283

Ramsay, John, P. M.
Reed, William Thomas Winston
Robertson, Robert Favery, P. M.
Roney, James, P. M.
Rose, John M.
Rottier, Christian Ludwig
Sanderson, James Edward
Shillingsburg, Elias
Smith, Curtis Cuthbert
Smith, Henry Judson
Sorensen, Peter Karl Kristian
Stephenson, William B., P. M.
Stewart, Carl Vere
Stiles, William Enos
Street, Augustµs Marlsberger
Street, William Thomas
Sweet, Fred Samuel
Terry, Clinton Hays
Thompson, George, P. M.
Thompson, John
Treese, Elhannan Johnson
'l'ufreson, August Fredericksen
Wagoner, Missouri Arnold
Walker, Henry James
Walters, John Fred
Ward, William Frank
Weirman, Samuel Arthur
Whit e, Andrew
Whitney, Andrew Jackson
Wiley, Alden Bridgman
Williams, J<1-mes Edward
Wilson, Henry
Winton, John Wilton, P. M.
Woods, Lyman Charles-138.

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 230.

•

Gridley, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of._ or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Richard Campbell, Master,
Bernhard Munter, Senior Deacon,
David H. Evans, Senio;r Warden,
Wm. Edward Sii:npson, Jun. Deacon,
James P. Fagan, Jun.i or Warden,
James ·Marshall, Marshal,
.
George D. Wickman, Treasurer,
Thomas Bending Channon, S~eward,
Homer Allen Woodworth, Se<'..,
Charles Augustus Schorr, Steward,
Thomas Jackson Long, Chaplain,
Nelson Franklin Todd, T;vler.

284

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Baldwin, William Thomas
Long, Thomas Jackson, P. M.
Barker, Washington Dunn
Mahan, Edward Clifford
Beebee, Robert Martin
Marshall, James, P. M.
McCurry, Samuel Baxter
Bigelow, Marcus James, P. M.
Biggs, Edward Earnest, ·p. M.
Moore, Charles Alonzo, :P. M.
Bissett, Thomas McCoy
Moody, Walter Ransome
Block, Charles Henry
Mould, William
Bonslett, Arnold
Munter, Bernhard
Brown, Charles Henry
Myers, James
Brown, Charles Henry
Myers, John Calvin
Burleson, William Davis
J1,i orman, Richard Aµ1JU.st11H, P. M.
Campbell, Richard
Porter, Jackson C. ·
· Rathbun, David L. ·
Campbell, Riley
Channon, Thomas Bending
Robinson, Robert Ernest
Crusick, Fred
Ruff, Samuel Francie
Crumb, Jones
Schorr, Charles A.
Daniels, George Seymour
Simpson, William Edward
Evans, John Alson
Shaeffer, John Franklin
Evans, David Humphrey
Sheridan, David
Fagan, Edward
Sperry, Willard Felton
Fagan, Edward Peter
Smith, Almon
Stafford, Thomas ·Henry
Fagan, J allies Porter
Galbreath, James Thomas, P. M.
Stafford, William Henry
Granier, Charles
Taylor, Reese Bowen
Hampton, James Madison
Todd, Nelson Franklin
Heaney, John
Wickman, George Deidrich
Henninger, James
Woodworth, Homer Allen, P. M.
Hutc.hins, John Sullivan
Van Fossen, Thomas Ezra
Hutchins, Thomas Boyd
Young, John Cottrell
Jones, John '.Harvey
Young, Sewell John, P. M.
King, Charles Lee
--61.

COVELO LODGE, No.

ROSTER.

•

•

..

232.

Janesville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

CovelQ, Mendocino County.
OFFICERS:
Ralph Waldo Everett, M:<ister,
Judson Liffohild, Senior Deacon,
Wm. '.Ritchie Dennis, Sen. Warden, Lorenzo Brady Tuttle, Ju11. Deacon,
Wm. Denham Rhoads, ·Jun. Warden, Europe Asbill, Marshal,
Henry Owen Bowers, 'treasurer,
Frank Thomson, 'Steward,
Walter Hargrave, Secreta1-y,
John Grist, Steward,
George Wash. Cummins, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Asbill, Europe
Liftchild, Judson, P. M,
Bennett, Josiah
Liston, Harry Finlay, P. M.
Bowers, Henry Owen
Loring, Fred Newhall
Brown, Albert Martin
Lovell, Henry Solon, P. M.
Brown, Charles Ira
Marders, Robert Ambrose
Burton, Andrew Hayden
Marks, Henry
Carner, John Irwin, P. M.
McClure, William Francis
Cummins, David B:i-own
Meyer, Victor
Cummins, George. Wash., P. M.
Miller, Albert Harvey
Dennis, Amos
Peterson, Peter Hanson
Dennis, William Ritchie
Perry, Alex. Collier
Eldred, Ho~ace Alex, '
Purdy, Edward
Everett, Ralph Waldo
Randrup, William
Foster, Jesse Gilbert.
Rea, Joseph Nelson
Finley, George Wear
Rhoads, William Denham
Fiske, James Saxon
Spaulding, Horace Reuben
Goldberg, Conrad Harris
Spurlock, Thomas Franklin
· Grist, John Wesley
Thomson, Francis Marion
Gibson, Edwin
Travis, John Henry
Hargrave, Walter
Tuttle, Lorenzo Brady
Handy, Philo
Van Dyke, Francis Marion, P. M.
Hall, Henry Miller
van Dyke, William S., Sr., P. M.
Hornbrook, Sanders
Van Dyke, William S, Jr., P. M.
Hurt, Charles Henry, P. M.
Wattenberger, Jacob--48..

JANESVILLE LODGE, No.

231.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

285

,

OFFICERS:
Granville Pullen, Master,
Warren Daniel Cook, Sen. Deaeon,
Robert Wade Elledge, Jun. Deacon,
J.ohn R. Elledge, Sen. Warden,
Wm. Andrew Dill, Junior Warden, James Alex. Wood, Marshal,
Stephen Shore Bass, Treasurer,
John Thos. Theodore, Steward,
Ira Eugene Bailey, Secretary,
Arad Way, Steward,
John Burton Christie,. Chaplain,
James Irving Christie, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bailey, Ira Eugene, P. M.
Bailey, George Benton
Bass, John Edward
Bass, Stephen Shore
Bond, Jeremiah, P. M.

Bond, Samuel Harris
Clark, William Henry
Clark, Charles Bates
Christie, James Irving, P. M.
Christie, John Burton

ROSTER.

286
Cook, Warren Daniel
Decious, Joseph Warren
DeWitt Walter Beauregard
Doyle, Otis Marks, P. M.
Doyle, Oscar Hill
Dill, William Andrew
Elledge, John Robert
Elledge, Robert Wade
Fisher, John Lewis
Gerichten, George Pierce Von
Grass, Leonard
Hemler, John Oscar
Hammond, Harry James
Jellison, John Edwin

Johnson, John
Johnson, Guy Pleasant
McDermott, Ja~es
Meylert, Gurdon W.
Otto, Anthony
Pullen, Granville
Rowland, Edgar Frank
Rowland, Clark Church
Smith, Isaiah Wright
Stubbs, Richard Nelson
Theodore, John Thomas
Wimple, N. V.
Woods, James Alexander, P. M.
Way, Arad
-38

•

ROSTER .

•

Hicklin, George Thomas
Hoover, Abram
Hoover, Charles Marion
Johnston, Richard Purchase
Kahn, Adolph James
Kimball, Reuel Mather
Light, Epriam
Light, Edward Epriam
Martin, Oscar
Maclean, Marcus Alexander
Mathewson, Carlton
Miller, Harry Baughman
McArthur, Archibald Henry
McKelly, Lonnie Asker
Pickett, Charles Nathan, P. M.
Porter, William Henry

287

Rutherford, John Ritchie
Rutherford, Wallace Taylor
Saftey, James Hunter
Si=ons, Amos
Siemsen, John William
Stevens, Charles Alexis, P. M.
Thomas, George Henry
Tamagin, Charles
Thirlwall, John Richard
Willis, David Conner
Wolleson, Martin
Wright, Frank Talbot
Wright, Joseph William
Wright, Frederick A.
Wright, Joseph Carson, P. M.

--61

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.
Calistoga, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Fred. A. Wright, Sen. Deacon,
Frank S. Crouch, Master,
George S. Cutler, Jun. Deacon,
John Wm. Siemsen, Sen. Warden,
Charles A. Carroll, Marshal,
Edward E. Light, Jun. Warden,
Emanuel H·. Cable, Steward,
Ephriam Light, Treasurer,
William A. Colburn, Steward,
Fred M. ·c utler, Secretary,
Archibald H. McArthur, Chaplain; Newton. Conner, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Crouch, Charles Wiley
Adams, Ira Winchell
Crouch, Frank Sherman
Ashton, Franklin, P. M.
Cutler, George Starr
Armstrong, Elbert Lawrence
Conner, Newton
Bassett, Ezra Amador
Davis, Charles Greer
Benoie, George P.
Decker, Porter Alfred
Boland, Michael Sixon, P. M.
Evey, David Douglas
Brown, Harry Hardin
Fuelscher, Marcus Julius
Burgess, Charles Melzar
Failing, John Sanfortl
Butler, John Samuel
Foss, Charles Clark
Cable, Emanuel Hoover
Frank, Ferdinand, P. M.
Colburn, William Abott
Gehrman, Frank
Carroll, Charles Afton, P. M.
Gerber, John Francis
Collins, Nelson Walton
Gibbs, Horace Lockwood
Cordes, Tobias John
Gravel, Francis Xavier
Crouch, Francis Asahel

HOPE LODGE, No. 234.
Beckwith, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Roger D. Mathews, Master,
.............. , Senior Warden,
William H. Titus, Jun. Warden,
A. P. Laffra.nchini, Treasurer,
Putnam M. Cate, Secretary,
John Calvin Morgan, Chaplain,

Leonard Greely Ede, Sen. Deacon,
John Lewis Mathews, Jun. Deacon,
James W. Webster, Marshal,
Fred John Neseman, Steward,
John Decker, Steward,
Sylvester A. Thomas, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Arms, William
Ede, Leonard Greely
Anderson, George Edward
Ede, Stephen Robert
Bergeret, Joseph Aubin
Ede, Charles Walter
Bridgman, Joseph Aron
Forsythe, John
Birngham, Marion Castor, P. M.
Frohlich, August Charles
Cate, George Washington
Gibson, William George
Cate,·Putnam M., P. M.
Guidice, Mauricello .
Christy, Lorenzo Marlson
Goodwin, William Holmes
Campbell, Frank
Goble, James Edward
Dedmon, Henry Pool
Heriot, David
Dedmon, John Washington
Holman, Geo.r ge Prescott
Dedmon, Joseph Asbery
Haskell, George Paul
Decker, John
Humphrey, James Lockhart

ROSTER.

288
Hamlin, Ray Arms
Johnson, Robert Lee
Joy, Frank S.
La:ffw.nchini, Charles
La:ffranchini, Acquilio Peter
La:ffranchini, Antone
Lawlor, Robert Emmett
Martin, Richard
Maxwell, George Albion
Marra, Federico
Merry, Joseph Francis
Moffitt, William Lyle
Mathews, John Lewis
Mathews, Roger David, P. M.
Morgan, John Calvan

Neseman, Fred John_,
Noee, Michel Joseph
Peck, Frank Ferdinand, P. M.
Peterson, John Henry
Ramella, David
Ross, James Li_ncoln
Smith, William Mitchell
Scolari, Peter
Sanders, William Francis
Thomas, Sylvestus Augustus
Totten, John Graham
Titus, William Henry
Webster, James Wellman
Young, Plumas Arthur
Young, Forest Robert
-56

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Cedarville, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Wm. Stewart Murdock, Master,
Anthony Rose, Senior Deacon,
Norman Winder, Sen. Warden,
Geo. C. Turner, Junior Deacon,
James H. Trimble, Jun. Warden,
John B. Lindemenn, Marshal;
William T. Gressler, Treasurer,
Ward Spooner Stevens, Steward,
Thomas H. Jfl)hnstone, Secretary,
Wm. Joseph Parman, Steward,
Frederick A. Sawtelle, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Parman, William Joseph_
Brown, William
Pyle, Charles Hunter
Berry, Doctor Champlin
Ratcliff, Osmond
Cressler, Samuel Orrin
Richardson, Elijah Allen
Gressler, William T.
Rose, Anthony
Cook, Harry Drake
Ehrhardt, George Edward
Sawtelle, Frederick Adolphus
Stevens, Ward Spooner, P. M.
Gray, Elijah Davison
Sly, John Elison
Johnstone, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Stanley, Ransom Heenan, P. M.
Jones, Joseph L.ewis
Lindemenn, John Burnam
Scott, Gabriel Jackson
Turner, George Clark
McClintock, Frank
Thompson, Josephus Moore
Minto, Robert Wield
Trimble, James Henry
Merryfield, Henry Lyman
McCormick, William Harvey, P. M. Wylie, Ja~ee, P. M.
Mullins, William, P. M.
Winder, Norman
Murdock, William Stewart
-31.

ROSTER.

289

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.
Newman, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER.!3:
Jules George S. Cain, Master,
John Harden Yancey, Sen. Deacon,
Leland H. Parker, Senior Warden, ~dolph Dobrzensky, Jun. Deacon,
Nathan K. Lockwoo·d, Jun. Warden, Alex. Monroe Williams, Marshal,
Thomas G. Yancey, Treasurer,
John Russell, Steward,
Howell V. Armistead, Secretary,
William B. Sowers, Steward,
Elmer Kuhns, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Armistead, Howell Venable, P. M.
Bartch, Frederick
Bunker, Frederick Edgecomb
Bunker, N;athaniel Emmons
Bunker, William Edwin
Cain, Jules George Sincere, P. M.
Crow, George Henry, P. M.
Crow, Edward Wyman
Dalby, Samuel Price
Dobrzensky, Adolph
Draper, William Fisk
Dunning, William Albion
Edgecomb, Frederick
Elfers, Charles Deidrich
Ford, Albert Joselyn
Fortune, James Pulaski
Hunt, Martin Luther
Jensen, Hans
Klehn, Henry, P. M.
Kuhns, Elmer
Lathrop, Jamee McElroy, P. M.
Lockwood, Nathan Kilburn
McLaughlin, Robert Emmett
McDonald, Mark Elmer ·

19

McMurtry, Louis Campbell
Mills, Henry Hammer
Morris, Julius
Ostrom, Gilbert Paul
Parker, Leland Harris
Paulsen, Carl Peter, P. M.
Pfitzer, Frank
.
Robison, Elisha Henry
Russell, 'John
Schank, Charles William
Schmidt, Hans Jorgensen
Shepherd, Rufus E.
Stratton, John Augustus, P. M.
Stuhr, Jasper Nicolaisen
Thompson, Nilse Andrew
Trefts, Charles Edgar
Tucker, Homer Celcis
Wanlhaus, Julius
Williams, Alex. Monroe, P. M.
Worthington, Andrew .Tackson
Yancey, Thomas Grayson
Yancey, John Hardin, P. M.
Yates, Albert Lansing, P. M.
Yates, John Davis-48.

2!JO

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

•

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.

MEMBERS:
Ahlf, Adolphus
Ahlf, John Claus
Anderson, Archibald Barron
Arnold, Phil Brent
Buster, William Harrison
Brown, Uriah Waverly
Beville, William Thomas
Blean, William Clive
Butler, Albert Burton
Blevins, Robert Edward
Cilley, John Mills
Cheney, John
Cosner, Robert, P. M.
D'Jarnett, John Burris
D'Jarnett, William Burris
Daly, Arthur Burton
Denton, Harry E.
Etter, Henry Haverlock
Farnsworth, George Noble
Ford, Joel Haden
Ford, Samuel Ben
Grover, Johnson
Goud, James Wilkins
Goodnough, Cyrenius Rozell
Hubbard, William Henry
Harden, George Beatty
Harrington, Tennent
Harrington, William Merrill
Hicok, Lora Lean
.Herd, William Nichols
Hart, James
Holloway, Edward Shortridge
Jacobson, Emil
Jackson, John Lowry
Kass, John
Kilgore, Frank
Kilgore, Orin J.
Mitchell, Burr Hudson
Miller, Jacob Henry, P. M.
Mogk, John Charles

Guadalupe, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Giacomazzi, Master,
Frank E. Campodonico, Sen. Deacon,
Ernest J. Pezzoni, Senior Warden, Peter Ferini, Junior Deacon,
Orellino Morganti, Junior Warden, Vittore Pezzoni, Marshal,
Stephen Campodonico, Treasurer,
Elmer McK. Hall, Steward,
William Rosenblum, Secretary,
Felice Aiguistapace, Steward,
John Reese Powel, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aiguistapace, Felice
McGuire, Nathaniel
Morganti, Orellino
Birra,. Giuseppe
Norris, John R.
Campodonico, Stephen, P. M.
Campodonico, Frank Edward
Pala, Carlo
Pezzoni, Battista
Garter, Paul Branch, P. M.
Clausen, Samuel
Pezzoni, Vittore
Fevini, Peter
Pezzoni, Ernest Julius
Gormley, Thomas
Rathbun, Fay Fillmore
Giacomazzi, John, P. M.
Rhodes, Charles William
Rosenblum, William
Giacomini, Paul
Souza, Antonio Jose
Guzzi, Clemente
Scott, David Silas
Hall, Elmer McKenzie
Smith, Martin Luther
Johnston, Alonzo Sidney
Tognazzini, Tilden Constance
Lapanchi, Angelo
Tognazzini, Ulisse
Laughlin, Henry James
Treppy, William Allen H.
Lewty, David
Woolley, Albert Vale·
Lucas, William Thomas, P. G. M.
Lucas, Lee Foreman
Zanetti, Severino-36.

COLUSA LODGE, No.

240.

Colusa, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Lora Lean Hicok, Master,
Adolphus Ahlf, Senior Warden,
Phil Brent Arnold, Jun. Warden,
Harry Freeman Osgood, Treasurer,
Wm. Thomas Beville, Secretary;
Claude E. de St. Maurice, Chaplain,

James David McNary, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Clive Blean, Junior Deacon,
Frank Zea Pirkey, Marshal,
Charles Walter Young, Steward,
Robert Edward Blevins, Steward,
William Nichols Herd, Tyler. .

2!H

'

I

Moss, John Jackson
McLean, Francis George
McNary, James David, P. M.
McVay, Willis Nelson
McVay, Irvin Nelson
Mc Vay, Joseph Edwin
O'Hair, Michael, P. M.
Osgood, Harry Freeman
Rounds tone, Jesse
Pirkey, Frank Zea
Percival, Walter C.
Peterson, Peter
Poage, Charles Allen
Richardson, Charles
Rummelsburg, Selig
Robinson, Oscar, P. M.
Roe, Harrison Alex.
Retterath, George
Rathbun, William Timothy
Seawell, Josiah Lauderdale, P. M.
St. Maurice, Claude Edward de
St. Maurice, George Ed. de
St. Maurice, Charles Albert de
Showler, George Edwin
Stanton, Joseph Byron, P. M.
Swinford, Edwin
Smith, George
Scott, George Franchville
Scarlett, Arthur Everett
Terrill, John Rouch
Totten, Marco Bozzaris
Thayer, Albert Austin
Vickers, Elmer Albert
Vann, Eugene Bird
Vann, William A.
West, Joseph Simon
Wilson, Worth Wilbur
Young, Charles Walter
Zumwalt, Ivy George
-79.

ROSTER.

292

SANTA ANA LODGE, No.

•
241..

Santa Ana, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next ~receding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Archibald N. Zerman, Sen. Deacon,
Clarence W. Sheets, Junior Deacon,
Frank Ey, Marshal,
Leonard Frank Harvey, Ste.ward,
Cecil Clayton Trickey, Steward,
George Eddie Robinson, Tyler.

Eli Brock Trago, Master,
Julius Reinhaus, Senior Warden,
Earl George Glenn, Junior Warden,
Max Reinhaus, 'l'reasurer,
George A. Whidden, Secretary,
James Hedges Hall, Chaplain,
Adams, Henry Martin
Anderson, John l'll elson
Atwood, Elmer Dennis
Albee, Charles Stolf
Andrews, Robert Joseph
Angle, George Willard
Balcon, Baylis Greenwood
Baker, Bayard 'iaylor
Ball, Charles Dexter
Beals, Albert
Benedict, George Marshall
Blake, Edwin Meador
Blodgett, Volney Ebenezer
Bowers, Addison Crockett
Brown, Nathaniel Nelson
Bird, Addison Elliott
Brock, David Truax, P. M.
Bruner, Francis Marion
Butz, Adolph
Bundy, Milton John, P. M.
Chesney, Tilford Denton
Chilton, Robert Francis
Clark, William C.
Close, Nathaniel Mills Perry
Cotter, James Stapleton
Conn, Frederick
Connell, Hiram Davis
Cory, Benjamin C.
Cobau, David
Collings, Joseph Sutcliffe
Crookshank, Miles Mcinnes
Cushman, Ruggles A.
Cummings, James, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Davis, Samuel McClellan
Dicker, Willet S.
Diers, Henry
Dorman, Dudley Marion
Dobson, George Henry
Dryer, John Lewis, P. M.
Dryer, George William
Dungan, Samuel Morrison
Edgar, George Alex.
Edinger, Christopher Columbus
Emerson, Lewis Sleeper
Emerson, Lucius Norman
Ey, Frank
Farman, Fernando Rosswell
Faust, George Andrew W.
Faust, Willis, Jr.
Ferguson, Joseph
Ferguson, Walter Perry
Finley, James Andrew
Fox, Charles William
French, Charles Edwin
Gardner, Arthur Bonnicastle
Garnett, William Muldrow
Garnsey, Louis James
Garnsey, Felix Rainey
Glenn, Earl George
Gilmaker, Joseph
Gordon, Howard Samuel
Griffiths, George Whitefield, Jr.
Griffiths, William Light
Greeley, John Philip, P. M.
Guthrie, Robert Burns, P. M.
Gockley, David

ROSTER.
Hall, James Hedges, P. M.
Halsel, Oliver Linden
Hannah, Charles William
Harding, Foster William
Harvey, Leonard Frank
Hately, William
Hawkins, George Washington
Haywood, John Saxton
Harris, Herman
Heaston, James Henry,
Helwig, Benjamin Reason
Hermes, Albert
Hervey, Albert Rhodes
Hill, John Wright
Hill, Thomas Morse
•Hill, Louis Hamilton
Hill, George Pliney
Hill, Herbert Curtis, P. M.
Hill, Samuel, P. M.
Holt, John
Huffman, Robert Lincoln
Hull, Harold Guy
Innes, William Law
Johnson, William Ira
Jones, Erastus Clinton
Kelley, Charles Spurwell
Kellogg, Hiram Clay
Kimball, John w·esley 'i'rue
King, John Richard
Kinley, James Frank
Langley, Edwin Theo., P. M.
Lamson, William Bradford
Lane, Martin Luther .
Laurence, George Parker
Leihy, Harold Arthur
Levy, Louis
Lovett, Charles Edward
Lutz, William Frederick
Luxton, Emanuel Henry
Lipking, Frederick William
Makosky, Herman Frank
Mathews, Henry Thomas
Mathews, Mitchell
Mansur, Carlos Frederick, P. M.
Mansur, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Mason, William Bertie

Menges, Marion Albert, P. M.
Medlock, James Randolph, P. M.
Mead, Ralph Waite
Meyers, Henry Dietrich
Monaghan, Francis Elbert
Morse, Charles Horace
Morse, Nathan Frank
Mosbaugh, George Jacob
McDowell, John Colvin
McN eill, Christopher
McTarnahan, Samuel Barrington
Munger, Samuel William
Mills, Ira D.
Nichols, John Brown
Nourse, John Thomas
Obar, William Shelby
Overshiner, Charles David
Overshiner, Clifton John
Page, Thomas Percival
Parker, Charles Edward
Parks, Joseph
Parsons, John Daniel
Parsons, Joseph Garrett·
Padgham, Albert John
Peters, Charles Edwin
Peabody, George Thompson
Peabody, Henry Adams
Pease, Arthur Henry
Phillips, Jefferson Davis
Porter, John Robert
"Potter, Albert Alex.
Potter, Leroy W.
Preble, George Edward
Preble, James Orne
Pumphrey, Charles Hammond
Putnam, John Day
Reinhaus, Julius
Reinhaus, Max
Richardson, Erwin Ellsworth
Rooney, James Francis
Ross, Jacob
Robbins, Osmond Milton, P. M.
Robinson, George Eddie
Rowland, John Byers Anderson
Sackman, John William
Sleeper, James

293

ROSTER.

294
Shaw, Linn Lee, P. M.
Smith, Alan Fowler
Smalley, William, P. M.
Smith, Ezekiel Bernaru, P. M.
Smith, James Thompson
Smith, Robert Lee
Stanton, George Munson
Sullivan, John C.
Sylvester, Harry Oman
Sheats, Clarence Warren
. Tillotson, J. Elizur
Tiede, August Charles
Towner, James William, P. M.
Townsend, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Trago, Eli Brock
Trickey, Frank Stover
Trickey, Cecil· Clayton
Trickey, Jasper Newton
Trickey, Thomas Nudd
Trickey, William Thomas
Trudo, Edward
True, Frank
Tubbs, Harry Sheldon
Tubbs, William Lewis, P. M.
Turner, James Andrew
Tyerman, Thomas Benton

Uttley, Birkett
Vegely, Frank, P. M.
Visel, Augustus Jacob
Violett, Charles C.
Von Schriltz, Isaac Miles
Wassum, Howard Allen
Waffie, Edson Dwight, P. M.
Wall, William Burges
Wallace, Elmer S ..
Warner, George Bradford
Wasser, Joseph Sylvester
Wasser, Wilbur Wellington
Werhly, John
·
West, John Franklin
West, Zephaniah B.
Whidden, George Akerman; P. M.
Wilhite, William Lane
Wilkinson, Laurence Smith
Winslow, Fred W.
Wood, Allen Jefferson
Wright, Alcinious Young, P. ~·
Whitehead, William
Young, William Charles
Zerman, Archibald Napoleon
Zielan, John James
-209.

MAGNOLIA LODGE, No. 242.
Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.

ROSTER.
Clark, Wilson Lincoln
Clough, George Ben
Conant, Frank Adelbert, P. M.
Cope, Walter Burton, P. M.
Crane, Jabez Tunis
Crother, Philip
Gunna.ne, William Bernard
Damm, Andrew
Day, William Scott, P. M.
Dresser, William Christopher
Eaves, Albert Thomas
Eisenberg, Jacob I.
Ferguson, James Leander
Foster, Frank Brooks
Frost, Samuel
Garcia, Manuel Francisco
Granger, Joseph Riley, P. M.
Hanauer, Moses
Hanlon, John
Harten, John Edward
Hassinger, James Charles
Hawley, Walter Augustus
Hayman, Albert
Heck, John Wesley, P. M.
Hogue, James Valentine
Hollister, Harold Albert
Jamison, Tobias Belt
Jeffress, Ernest Gunn
Johnston, Elmer Ellsworth
Johnston, Fred Lyle
Johnston, John Thompson, P. M.
Leckner, James A1ram Garfield

295

Lillard, Jeremiah Beverly
Linquist, August Ludvick
Lorenzi, Bartolo De
MacBratney, William Charles
Madison, Arthur Edward
Marbut, John Wellington
Martin, William Herndon
Matthews, John
Morris, William Beachem
Morton, James St. Clair
Nielson, Fred Macfarlane
Nielson, Wiley Cleveland
Phoenix, Charles Elwood
Pritchard, Howard Monroe
Reynolds, Charles Philip
Richardson, Lance, P. M.
Ricketts, Summerfield Tippet
Ross, William
.
Rounsevell, Walter Howland
Scales, Horace H.
Sexton, Harry Eugene
Sloan, James Esler
Smith, James Wilson, P. M.
Smith, Rufus Dana
Stafford, Percy Monroe
Steele, Walter Dana
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Treadway, Clinton William
Vosburgh, Graham
Whipple, Joseph
Williams, George Martin
Wilson, Jerome Calvin-72.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Wilson Smith, Sen. Deacon,
William Preston Butcher, Master,
Charles P. Reynolds, Sen. Warden, Albert Thomas Eaves, Jun. Deacon,
Frank Adelbert Conant, Marshal,
S. T. Ricketts, Junior Warden,
Samuel Frost, Steward,
Jacob I. Eisenberg, 'l'reasurer,
John Matthews, Steward,
Philip Crother, Secretary,
Samuel Manchester, Tyler.
John T. Johnston, Chaplain,
Axtell, Joseph Daniel
Bainbridge, James Carden
Baker, George Russell
Beattie, Clay Hathaway

MEMBERS:
Bentz, Nathan
Bond, Charles Scott
Butcher, William Preston, P. M.
Carrell, George Russell

EUCALYPTUS LODGE, No. 243.
Haywards, Alameda 'county.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Robert August F. Kolze, Master,
James Thos. Macintosh, Sen. Deacon,
Henry E. Brunner, Senior Warden, Jacob Harder, Junior Deacon,
Edward W. Jones, Junior Warden, Alonzo Bradford, Marshal
Charles Prowse, Treasurer,
J. Lawritzen Christiansen, Steward,
John Elmer Welsh, Secretary,
Hans Mathiesen, Stewar.d,
Eli Howland, Tyler.

296

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:

Austin, James Davis, P. M.
Alexander, Archie Addison
Alexander, George Edward
Armstrong, Joseph David
Bradford, Alonzo
Brunner, Henry Ernst
Brow~e, Ralph Stuart
Bennett, Edwin Olin
Clawiter, Edward Henry
Cull, William Davenport
Curley, John James
Curley, John Edward
Crosby, Peter James
Cutler, Frederick Storer
Christensen, Jens Lauritzen
Christensen; William Tyroll
Christensen, Hans
Dahle, Carl Oscar
Dennis, Frank
Fischer, Albert Ehrhardt
Frick, George William, P. M.
Glass, Clement Rowland
Gamble, John
Gray, George
Griffis, Sabin
Gorrie, Thomas Cullen
Grindell, George Edward
Howland, Eli
Haley, John Virgil
Haley, William Wallace
Harrison, George E.
Jordan, Leslie Alex., P. M.
Johnson, Peter
Johnson, Matthis
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Edward William
Kolze, Robert Aug. Frank, P. M.

Long, Charles Stuart, P. M.
Lyons, George W;i,shington
Macintosh, James Thomas
Maggioli, Silvio ·
Mansfield, George
Martin, Paul
Mathiesen, Hans
Meek, Harry Wert, P. M.
Meek, William Ellsworth
Moore, John We'l!ley
Mitchell, Franklin Rising
Musson, Edwin Frank, p. M.
Neudeck, Carl .Nicholas
Oliver, Adolph August
Oliver, Henry Andrew
Prowse, Charles
Prosser, John Raymond
Petray, Henry·Calvin
Parsons, Isaac Brown
Russell, Thomas Bartlett, P. M.
Rowlands, William Edward, P. M.
Reynolds, George Edmund
Ramage, Andrew, P. M.
Ramage, William Arthur
Schafer, Henry August, P . M.
Sequeria, John Joseph
Smalley, David S.
Stanton, Thomas Joseph
Sorensen, Hans
Thomas, Charles Frank, P. M.
Thompson, Hans
Thornp, .H arold
Turri, Matteo
Wolff, William
Wooten, John Edward
Welsh, John Elmer.
-73.

ROSTER.

297

ALCATRAZ LODGE, No. 244.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William John Lawry, Master, .
Henry Adolph Meese, Senior Deacon,
· John Crossman, Senior Warden,
Charles H. Sommer, Junior Deacon,
Lewis T. Corwin, Junior Warden, William Albert Weigt, Marshal,
Warren G. Mobley, Treasurer,
Peter Edward Linster, Steward,
Herbert Atherton Glines, Secretary, James Cassius Smith, Steward,
John Brown Myrick, Chaplain,
Sidney Herbert Farrell, Tyler.
AdaJ!ls, Charles Henry
Adams, Claude Nichols
Adamson, Franklin Chris.
Aird, Alex. Fisher
Aldrich, Hugh Shafter,
Alison, Archie
Allen, John Willas Tamas
Anderson, Edward James
Andersen, Harold Sophus
Aspen, Edward Johnson
Austin, George William
Austin, Robert Harrison
A van, William John
Baker, Alvin Walter
Baker, Henry Mathews
Baker, James Bartlett
Barnes, Harry. Clinton
Barnes, James Louis
Barnett, Rufus Putnam
Barrett, Lawrence Whitlatch
Bishop, James Robert
Blackwell, Robert John
Blanchard, Cyrus Edgar
Blake, Sherman Tecumseh
Bock, George
Borchert, Henry Augustus
Bramstedt, William Christian
Bronstrnp, Gustave Adolph
Buchanan, Alex.
Buckingham, George Albert
Burgess, Samuel William
Buzzo, Benjamin Heywood
Cardwell, John Henry

MEMBERS:
Cardwell, Joseph William
Carlson, Oscar Rinhold
Carman, Charles Way
Carman, Frank Vanoy
Carpenter, George
Champion, Louis Frederick
Chase, David Bunnell
Chase, Quincy Acastus
Christensen, Christ
Clark, Charles Anthony
Clark, Henry Adelbert
Classen, Albert
Climo, Samuel
Coates, William Henry
Cogswell, John Benjamin
Comstock, Herbert Mark
Corwin, Lewis Thornton
Cotton, George Douglas
Cozzens, Arthur Eugene
Crand.ley, William John
Crawford, Frank Reed
Crossman, Archie Kean
Crossman, Edwin John
'Crossman, John
Crossman, William Thomas
Cummings, Lawrence Wash.
Dailey, William Curtis
Dallernp, Benjamin
Dallernp, John
Davidson, William
Davis, Charles Franklin
Davison, William Gardiner, P. M.
Deaner, Hiram Franklin

298
DesCormiers, Charles B. ,
Dickerson, James Henry
Dickson, George
Deardorff, William Perry
Deckard, Stephen Anderson
Dieves, Charles Isaac
Dieves, Joseph August
Dodds, Thomas Garfield
Douglass, Frank Johnson
Dudley, William Moses
Dunsmore, William Gelchrist
Eames, George Washington
Edgecomb, Richard Phillip
Edmonds, Thomas
Edwards, Henry John
Edwards, Walter John
Eiben, Frederick Gerhard
Erwin, David Lyttle
Fairchild, Claude Wilkins
Farrell, Sidney Herbert
Farrell., Sidney Herbert, Jr.
Fay, Max Henry
Finely, Charles John Jasper
Fraser, John Eugene
Fraser, Neil
Gardner, Hiram Smith
Gemmell, Stewart Farwell
Gentis, William Ira .
Gibson, Charles Luke
Glines, Herbert Atherton, P. M.
Godbeer, William
Graham, William Joseph
Graham, Edward Joseph
Graham, Robert Grant, P. M.
Gray, James
Greenlee, James William
Greenwald, Frank Julius
Hadcock, Eugene Berrel
Hale, Henry Hubbard
Hall, James
Harrigan, John William
Harjes, William Ed.
Harris, Theo. Howard
Havard, Richard Daniel
Heckell, William Frederic
B elmore, Paul Algernon

ROSTER.
Helvie, Roscoe S.
Herrmann, Andrew
Hewitt, Lowen Gifford
Higuera, Ferdin~nd ·
Hufschmidt, Alfr~d Frederick
Huggins, Henri Tyler, P. M.
Hunter,. William Alex., P. M.
Hutton, David
Ingersoll, Clarence George
Isaacs, Alfred Solomon
Isaacs, John Dove
Jamieson, John Carlyle
Johnstone, Andrew Edward
Johnstone, John Crawford
Johnstone, Robert
Jones, Mathew Hines
Jorgensen, Johannes Christian
Jurgens, Charles Henry
Kahn, Henry
'
Kahn, Solomon
Keiser, Chris
Keyser, John Harold
Kieley, John Francis
Krytser, Charles John
Kydd, Isaac Ferguson
Lagerson, Walter Henry
Lane, William
Lang, Frederick William
Langford, Thomas
Lawry, William John
Linster, Peter Edward
Long, Albert Vance
Long, William
Love, Thomas, P. M.
Lowell, Frank
Lumsden, William Stephen
Lutgen, George Vest
Lutgen, John Peter
MacGregor, Henry Mortimer
Madison, Maurice Austin Henry
Mahony, William Henry
Mangan, John Martin
McComb, Edward
McDonald, Frank Jesse
McDonald, George Bruce
McGuffick, George Nelson

ROSTER.

I •

•

McKeen, Albert Atwater, P . M.
McKeen, Arthur Hugh
McKeen, Herman Scott
McKenzie, Joseph Henry
McLean, Edward John
McLeod, Angus Martin
McNulty, Richard John
McRae, John Henry
McWade, David Franklin
Meade, Linley Merwin
Medros, Joseph Jason
Meese, Henry Adolph
Megraw, George Emery
Melvin, James Garland
Merrill, Arthur
Mobley, Warren Guice, P. M.
Moffitt, Joseph Duyer
Moon, Holly Francis
Moore, John Briggs
Moore, John Thomas
Moore, Robert H.
Mosbacher, George
Mueller, Ernest
Murphy, Eugene Joseph
Murphy, James Joseph
Myrick, John Brown
Nash, Chester Bell
Neal, William Waterman, P. M.
Neilsen, Francis Joseph
Neilsen, Hans Frederick
Nicol, William Scott
Nissen, Julius Linnit
Nor, Andrew Jorgensen
Nussbaum, August Otto
0 'Brien, Thomas Edward
0 'Neil, Peter J.
Parker, David Elmer
Partridge, Abram Peter
Pasquale, Edward Valentine
Peacock, Alfred, P. M.
Perkins, Eugene S., P. M.
Peterson, Peter Hansen
Pett, David
Pierson, Willard Hubbel
Poulson, Christian Nicolia
Pringle, James

Putney, Edward Fisher
Putzar, Edward Louis
Raphael, William Kinney
Redington, Charles Henry, Jr.
Redington, Charles Henry, P. M.
Redington, Jo Peter
Reed, James Lon
Reed, Thomas
Reilinger, Edward Nathan
Rerat, Albert Louis
Rhein, William H .
Robertson, Albert Atwater
Robertson, Daniel
Rogers, Edward Almond
Rosebury, James
Ruley, Guy Fairfax
Russell, William Hicks
Sanbprn, William Kelly, P. M.
Sandelin, Charles Frederick
Sargent, George
Sartori, Augus.tino Paulo
Scheithe, Carl F.
Schnidler, Henry Bernard, P. M.
Schrock, William A.
Schu, Charles Henry
Schwarz, Henry, P. M.
Searles, Niles, Jr., P. M.
Seller, John
Sheldon, William Wallace
Sherrott, Frederick Albert
Skilling, Henry Hugh
Slaven, John Thompson
Smith, George Frederick
Smith, Julius Cassius
Smith, William Owen
Snook, William Sayer
Snook, Charles Edward, P. M .
Solomon, Isadore Edward
Sommer, Charles Henry
Sorensen, Hans Frederick
Sorensen, Jesse Reinhold
Stephens, Samuel
Stephens, Thomas
Stokes, Levi
Story, William Riky
St. Pierre, John

r

BOO

Stromgren, Gustave Adolph
Suber, Timothy Brooks
Swenson, Charles
Tait, Allen James
Tambs, Emil
Tambs, Hartnig Carsten
Tarr, Alvin Eugene
Thomas, Charles Goodwin
Thomas, William John
Thomson, James
Torrence, Henry George
Trefethen, Eugene 'Augustus, P. M.
Trombley, Henry
Undhjen, Ole
Vetter, Nicholas
Walker, Thomas Rose
Walker, Wiliiam Henry
Walters, Valentine
Wave, Francis Edgar
Warness, Axel Christoffer
Warness, Paul Andrew
Watson, Warren Mortimer
W eigt, William Albert

Weston, William Pomroy
White, Albert Frederick
White, Cornelli\ls
White, Herman Shea
White, Joseph
Whitehead, Thomas
Wiley, Jasper Grant
Wilkes, Farrington
Wilkes, William Ernest
Willard, Charles Martin
Williams, Ernest Clement
Williams, Frank Delmore
Williams, John Jones
Williams, Robert Richard
Wills, John Tyzzer
Wilson, Andrew John
Wilson, James ti.
,
Winsboro, William Arthur
Withrow, Walter Huston
Wooley, Eliphat Burt, P. M.
Wrede, August Adolph
Wyllie, Robert Pedan
Zeimer, Henry Kahn-296.

LAUREL LODGE, No. 245.
Willows, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Hiram Graves, Master,
Wm. Winfield Scott, Sen. Deacon,
Chas. J. Lathrop, Senior Warden,
John Russell Hanlon, Jun. Dea.con,
Samuel M. Chaney, Junior Warden, Thomas L. Knock, Marshal,
James Madison Silvey, Treasurer,
Gustave Arthur Gutman, Steward,
Lew Ernest Wickes, Secretary,
Theron Francis Oarr, Steward,
Alex. Hamilton Willard, Chaplain, John Henry Zumwult, •ryler.
Bailey, John Amity
Barber, Henry Dwight
Barham, Edwin
Barham, Marcus Lafayette
Baylor, William Catlett
Boyd, James
Brock, Irving
Brock, Malcom

•

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Bungard, George
Burrows, Clarence Emmette
Carr, Theron Francis
Cardiff, George Henry
Chaney, Samuel Marshall
Cobb, Byron Otis
Cowart, Zachariah Taylor
Crawford, Fred 'k Gustavus, P. M.

:Crawford, Russill Tracey
Curry, Isaac
Danner, Jefferson Davis, P. M.
Davis, Charles Wilson
Dethlefs, Max Claussen
Duncan, Addison Eugene
Elliott, Henry Baker, P. M.
Farnham, Daniel Cromwell
Finch, William Morton, P. M.
Freeman, Frank
Freeman, George Richard
Freeman, William Valentine
Garnett, Hugh McCune
Garnett, Peter Richard
Graves, Fremont Ashurst
Graves, John Hiram, P. M.
Gutman, Gustavous Arthur
Hanlon, John Russill
Hatcher, George Jackson
Heeran, Henry Amandus
Hirsch, Otto Nathan
Hochheimer, Ira
Hochheimer, Moses, P. M.
Johnson, James Olis
Klemmer, Lewis Jacob
Knock, Thomas L.
Lathrop, Charles John
Long, Robert Augustus, P. M.
Luman, William Eugene
Lyons, Patrick
Marshall, William Walker
Markewitz, Milton
McDaniel, Joseph Elijah
McRae, Alex.
Mellor, George

301

Merrill, William Reed
Mitchell, James Henry
Miller, Isaac
Moody, Frank, P. M.
Moore, Harry
Newman, Charles
Nordyke, Abram Andrew, P. M.
Nordyke, Marion Augustus
Orr, George Wesley, P. M.
Pirkey, Oval
Raper, Orville Lawrence
Rasor, Andrew Jackson
Raulins, Frank
Rhodes, Howard Eustace
Robison, Enos Cordell
Scott, William Winfield, P. M.
Silvey, James Madison
Smith, William Augustus
Snowden, George Washington
Snowden, James William
Stewart, Francis Davis
Talcott, Frederick William
Tooley, Logan Porter
Tyler, Elias Mortimer, P. M.
Walker, John
West, Hiram Leroy
Wickes, Harvey Orin
Wickes, Lew Ernest
Willard, Alex. Hamilton, P. M.
Williams, Frank Wesley
Winkler, James Jackson
Wylee, Hartson Delmur
Wylee, John Elsworth
Zumwalt, John Henry
-85.

POMONA LODGE, No. 246.
P9m-0na., Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
J erom.e A. Ludden, Senior Deacon,
Allen Ponfield Nichols, Master,
James H. Wilkinson; Junior Deacon,
Walter A. Lewis, Senior Warden,
Wm. A. Vandergrift, Jun. Warden, Joseph R. Garthside, Marshal,
Clyde Samuel Wentworth, Steward,
Charles M. Stone, Treasurer,
James· L. Armstrong Secretary,
George E. Mosher, Steward,
Orrion Austin Warner, Tyler.
John Wasson; Chaplain,

r

302

ROSTER.

MEMBBRIP\·
Grant, Arthur Cameron
Allen, Frederick Madison
Graham, Fred Eugene
Anderson, Henry Clay
Ransler, Fra,nk ·Ernest
Androus, Samuel Newell
Hanson, Hans Broderson
Armstrong, James Lapsley
Hoskin, Lorenzo Hix
Ashton, Palmer
Hefti, Rudolph
Avery, Albert Sinclair, P. M.
Hibbard, Ethan Allen
Bowen, John F.
Henderson, Edward
Brown, Frederick Alfred
Herder, William
Brown, Rae
Hicklin, Edward
Bryant, Leslie George
Hinman, Elliott
Caldwell, Andrew Becton
Hoffmaster, Edgar Joseph Lemp
Caldwell, Gus Becton
Huff, Charles Clark
Campbell, Melvin
Huneman, William
Carter, Ira Caleb
Hunter, Arthur Daniel
Clark, Charles
Huse, George Elmer
Clark, Charles Ralph
Hyatt, Frank Henry
Cohn, Nathan
Irwin, Silas S.
·Cowles, Lyman Warner
Jess, Stoddard
Cowdery, George Willis
Johnson, Frank Walter
Craig, Gavin
Kerckhoff, Hermann Henry
Cramon, William Theo.
Kiler, William Harrison
Curtis, George Elmer
Lewis, Frederick Rice
Debrunner, Vitus
Lewis, Walter Atwood
Dole, Arthur Macdonald
Llewellyn, Frederick B., P. M.
Dorsey, Kewen Hillard
Loney, James
Doughty, Charles Homer
Ludden, Collins Adelbert
Douglas, Joseph
Ludden, Jerome A.
Dowling, Thomas Jackson
Lyon, Will Bently
Dreher, Charles John
Manchester, Erastus Taylor
Dreher, Peter John
Martin, William Thomas, P. M.
Dreher, Edwin Ludwig
Martin, William Claiborn
Dye, John Hiram
McGowan, James Edwin
Edwards, George
Mcintosh, Robert
Eells, George Nelson
McQuitty, David Crane
Fitch, Joseph Ahira
Merrill, George Whitney
Ford, Seldom Irwing
Midgley, William Wentworth
Fosdick, Clarence Watson
Fox, Ernest M. ·
Milliken, Thomas Draper
Mills, James William
Frankel, Samuel
Molyneaux, Francis Asbury
Friedman, Herman
Monahan, John William
Gallup, John Adam, P. M.
Moon, Thomas James
Garthside, Joseph Relton, P. M.
Morris, Noah
Garcelon, Frank, P. M.
Morrison, Edward Hug:t:
Garcelon, Harris
Mumford, Ira Edgar Leroy
Gerling, Edgar Schroder

ROSTER.
Newman, Orlander Jay
Nichols, Hervey James
Nichols, Allen Penefield
Overhaltzer, Oscar Lee
Phillips, William Riley, P. M.
Phillips, George Stephen
Pool, George Anthony
Poston, William Herbert
Powers, James Macnish
Powell, William Lytle
Raynes, Frank
Rice, George Heber
Richards, Adison Whiteker
Rickerich, William Henry
Rhobords, Charles Harrison
Robinson, Edward Clark
Robinson, George Printiss
Scott, Henry
·
Seaver, Carlton, P. M.
Seaver, Frank Roger
Shutt, Fred Ordway
Smith, William Daniel
Staig, Arthur Davis
Stapley, Walter
Steele, Robert Cauley
Steffa, George Addison
Stevenson, Ira
Stormer, William Ernest
Stone, Charles Micah

303

Swindt, Joseph Keener
Tallbott, Charles Wesley
Teague, D~vid Clinton
Teague, Walter
Thomas, Frank Webster
Toland, Clarence Gains
Turner, George Madison
Twomey, James Sparks
Twomey, Samuel Sparks
Vandergrift, William Alfred
Wasson, John
Warner, Orrin Austin
Welch, Everett Haskell, P. M.
Wentworth, Clyde Samuel
White, Darius
White, Frederick Alson
White, Jay John
Whyte, John
Wilcox, John Wealton
Wildman, William
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson
Wilkinson, James Henry
Wilson, Charles Patton
Williams, Noah
Wilton, Edwin
Witman, Alex. Hamilton
Wright, Charles Digby
Wright, Silas Goold
Wyman, Francis George-148.

FRESNO LODGE, No. 247.
Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Joseph Layman Beall, Master,
Clarence W. Edwards, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Jos. Kittrell, Senior Warden, Anders Bang, Junior Deacon,
Ardie L. Smith, Junior Warden,
Anson B. Smith, Marshal,
Leopold Gundelfinger, Treasurer,
Christopher D. Marks, Steward,
.John Dewey Galloway, Secretary,
Herbert Levey, Steward,
Harvey S. Hanson, Chaplain,
Alexander Jenkins, Tyler.

304

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS·
Comfort, Aaron R.
Apply, Judson
Cohn, Solomon Jacob
Anderson, James
Armstead, Robert Grieve
Cosgrave, Geurge, P. M.
Allum, LeRoy Martin
Cooley, Menzo Wesley
Ashman, Stonewall Jackson
Colson, Benjamin Young
Alexander, Walter Edwin
Cocldington, Oliver Clinton
Anderson, Gus Walter
Cornforth, Charles Henry
Aarestrup, Theo.
Challup, Charles Martin
Bachant, David Lewis
Chaddock, Emory Gilbert
Barham, Courtney L.
Davison, William
Barnesberger, Henry
Davidson, Joseph Dobbins
Barrett, Charles William, P. M.
DeLong, Charles Warren
Bagley, Francis Sylvester
Dennett, William Bibb
Bang, Anders
Dressel, John Christopher
Barnwell, David Monroe
Dunn, Thomas
·
Bates, Dudley Urias
Dwyer, George Michael
Belfi.ls, Ernest Kreichbaum
Detoy, Charles L.
Benas, Isaac
Dellman, Ernest
Bernhard, Emil Frederick
Dunn, William Francis
Berry, Fulton Greene
Eckland, Charles Maurice
Beveridge, George Paxton
Eley, Millett
Beall, Joseph Layman
Edwards, Edward Darnell, P . M.
Bomgardner, John Adams
Edwards, Clarence William
Bowdish, Percival
Elliott, George
Bodwell, Samuel Procter
Enloe, Henry Enoch
Bramblett, James Mitchell
Ewing, navid Shelby
Brooks, Albert Preston
Errett, Henry Fred K.
Brooks, William Washington
Ferguson, John William
Burke, Fred Miller
Fry, Edwin Claude
Burks, William Tilman
Galloway, John Dewey
Burleigh, Charles Morrell
Goggin, Richanl DeLacy
Burness, Hector
Goldstein, Alex.
Bush, Edward Everett
Goodman, Solomon Bearline
Butler, Alban Bernard
Graff, Hans
Butler, Richard Blanton
Gray, Lee Lincoln
Burdick, Arthur Wadsworth
Grunig, Charles
Burk, John T.
Gundelfinger, Leopold
Burks, Floyd Launcelot Rowell
Gundelfinger, Emil
Burnham, Floyd
Hague, Berry Madison, Jr., P. ~·
· Byrd, Charles H.
Hague, Benjamin Murrell
Cate, James Wilbur
Hald, Jens Hansen
Clark, Angus Marion, P. M.
Hammer, Richard LaFayette
Cathcart, Benjamin Franklin
Hanson, Harvey Stickney
Church, George Emory, P. M .
Hansberger, Henry Stone
Collins, James Darwin
Hanner, John William

Hanson, William George
Harris, Milus King
Iiarris, William John
Harrold, Thomas Richard
Hart, Leon
Hayden, Edward Martin
Hedges, Henry Philip
Henry John Samuel
Heiskell, William King
Hi~ds, Herman Jacob
Hinch, William Sproule
Hindsberger, Jacob
Hixson, Joseph Foster
Hoffman, Allen F.
Hogue, Samuel Lassen
Hopkins, Ethan Littler
Holden, George S., P. M.
Hollenbeck, James H.
Holland, William Bismarck
Homan, Frank Andrew
Hughes, Thomas Edwin
Hutchinson, Charles Caswell
Inns, Ernest Frank
Jackson, Andrew
Johnson, George L.
Johnson, Rasmus Bartholin
Johnson, Samuel Walter
Johnson, William Mallory
Johnston, Harry Mumford
·Jones, George Wallace
Jones, Oscar Knox
Jenkins, Alex.
Kirk, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Keating, James Thomas
Kreider, Joseph Charles
Kittrell, William Joseph
Kohler, George Mathias
Kerney, Aden G._
Kerney, Charles H.
Lane, William Samuel, P. M.
Laning, Frank
Levy, Herman, P. M.
Levy", Nyman
Lynch, William
Lynch, Thomas Halpin
Lynn, Theo. Ayers
20

Lang, James Albert
Lee, Frederic Morgan
Lohman, Hermon Joseph
Longacre, John Richard
Lowe, Camille Danton
Lurie, Harry
Levy, Herbert
Machen, William Wallace
Mackinnon, Arthur Ward
Madsen, 'l'heo.
Manheim, Emil Edward
Manuel, Louis
Marks, Christopher D.
Marks, George
Martin, Samuel
Mattingly, John Andrew, P. M.
Maupin, James Laurence
Mlrupin, William Thomas
May, Richard Elwyn
May, Francis John
McClurg, James A., Sr.
McDonald, James Bruce
Mcindoo, Ivan Carter
McKinnon, Albert Dwight
McLane, Charles Lowry, P. M.
Mellon, Thomas Eugene
Metzler, Brenton Jarvis
Miller, Charles Herman
Monroe, George Hays, P. M.
Morris, Charles
Morris, Henry
Muldary, Richard Morgan
Mulholland, _Robert Smith
Munn, Charles Anderson
·Musselman, Albert E.
Myer, Isaac
Neal, John Wesley
Neal, John
Nelson, Louis
North, John Wilson
Olney, Albert Downing
Olufs, Oluf Bernhard
Olney, Clyde Albert
0 'Neal, Charles
Palmer, Arthur Henry Gordon
Patch, George·

305

306

ROSTER.

Payne, Le Roy
Snow, Alva Edson
Peachman, Ferdinand
Spivey, William Anderson
Peterson, Christian
Strother, John Pryor
Peterson, Nathaniel Houston
Stephens, Lewis Oliver, P. M.
Peterson, William Harrison
Stuart, Richard I., P. M.
Pike, Willis
Swearingen, Barney
Porter, W. F.
Swartz, Alex. Culbertson
Powell, A. L.
Sweeney, Albert Hamlet
Prince, Thomas Brown
Taylor, James
Pugh, John M., P. M.
Taylor, Paul Chester
Puleston, William Henry
Tegeler, Frederick William
Pulliam, Charies Irwin
Thompson, Oliver McGrady
Radley, Thomas Henry
Thomas, Montgomery
Redden, Silas Henry
Thorwaldson, Horace
Rehorn, Frank
Tinnin, Wiley James, P. G. M.
Reno, FJ;"ederick Rensalaer
Tombs, Samuel Bell, P. M.
Rhodes, Johnson Guy
Trowbridge, Dwight Howe
Richardson, Charles
Tuller, Orlando Prentiss
Riege, Charles Henry
Turner, George Washingt~n
Robbe, David Harry
Tunzi, Norberto
Robinson, William Harrison Jackson Urban, Charles Francis
Roessler, Frederic Martin
Valent~ne, Edward Sharpe, P. M.
Rudy, Henry Vernon
Vanderlip, Frederic Douglas
Sahm, Henry
Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
Samelson, Samuel Joseph
Vorce, Oliver Allen
Samuel, Lawrence
Wade, Lincoln
Seadler, James
.
Walker, Ben Randal
Selling, Christian Hansen
Walker, John Robert
Sewell, Walter John
Warner, Albert Owen
Shaver, Charles Binn
Warrington, Thomas Henry
Sherman, Walter Nathan
Webster, James Alfred
Shields, Adolphus James
Welch, George
Shoemaker, Walter
Whepley, William Lang
Shoobert, Charles Warren S.
White, John James
Short, Frank Hamilton
White, John Wesley
Simpson, Timothy William
Whitney, Walter
Sloane, William Burtis
Whitney, William Joel
Smith, Anson Burlingame, P. M.
Williamson, Charles
Smith, Ardie Lee
Wise, Lee Clinton
Smith, Christine Hansen
Willis, Glenn Trowbridge
Smith, Eugene Robinette
Williams, Alonzo C., P. M.
Smith, George Washington
Woodward, Oscar J.
Smith, Joseph Manooh, P. M.
Wrightson, John Mowell
Smith, Samuel Nathaniel
Zener, Steven Olin
Smith, Victor Raymond
-271.

ROSTER.

307

ALTURAS LODGE, No. 248.
Alturas, Modoc County.

•

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding -Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Simeon Theodore Ballard, Master, Chas. Sherman Baldwin, Sen. Deacon,
Walter Ed. Coppedge, Serr. Warden, Thorn Hill Ballard, Junior Deacon,
T. Lawrence Denson, Jun. Warden, Wm. Evans Armstrong, Marshal,
Ernest Chappell Bonner, Treasurer, Silas Wash. Pepperdine, Steward,
John Charles Rachford, Steward,
Isaac Lauer, Secretary,
Alfred Gagnon, Tyler.
John Edward Baker, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:

•

•

.

Armstrong, William Evans, P. M.
Baldwin, Charles Sherman
Bonner, John Todd, P. M.
Bonner, Ernest Chappell, P. M.
Ballard, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Ballard, Simeon Theo., P. M.
Ballard, Thorn Hill
Ballard, James Thornhill
Baty, Samuel E.
Bayley, Adin Spooner
Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Bush, Elmer Ellsworth
Brasher, Robert Wiiliams
Caddel, Elijah Daniel
Clark, Luther Goddard
Coppedge, waiter Edwin
Connon, John P~yton
Davis, Madison
Denson, Thomas Lawrence
Fleming, Henry Albert

Gausted, Rasmus Oliver
Gagnon, Alfred
Huffman, Fred Harmon
Laird, James Todd, P. M.
Lauer, Isaac
Lauer, Marx
Latter, Arthur
Moberg, August
Morgan, Charles Poe
Oliver, Charles Martin
Owens, John Franklin
Ogle, Elvin Fulton
Pepperdine, Silas Washington
Pierce, James Milton
Rachford, John Charles, P. M.
Raker, John Edward
Russill, Richard Madison
Salisbury, William A., P. M.
Spargur, Charles Goodwin
Spicer, Albert Fulmer--40.

ADIN LODGE, No.

250.

Adin, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full 11foon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

308

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
.tlradshaw, Arthur Franklin, P. M.
Preston, Edmund Benjamin
Braden, Lincoln
Packwood, Warren Dale, P. M.
Brown, Clyde Earl ·
Pickard, Edwin Stanton, P. M.
Blaske, Morris
Rice, Charles William
Clark, Richard Biddle
Rice, ·Thomas Jefferson
Ford, Emery Walter
Rice, George Freeland Houston
Fruits, John Sebastian, P. M.
Sailing, Richard
Geisendorfer, Henry Albert
Squire, Andrew Jackson
Groves, Elzie Wiman
Squire, Andrew Jackson, Sr.
Grubbs, Elisha '.Parker, P. M.
Tinsman, Charles Mathias
Harrell, James Porter Grove
Tocher, William
Holl, James Hartwell
Traugh, Arthur Mathias, P. M.
Knight, George Horace, P. M.
Traugh, Lemuel George
Lorenzen, Peter
·
Walker, George Roseberry
McArthur, Scott
Wilson, Thomas Walter
Parish, Frank Pierce
Wilson, Ezra Morton-32.

McKenzie, John Johnson
McKinlay, William, Jr .
Nelson, Hugh Wellington
Parr, Edward William
Parr, John Forest
Pierce, Richard Thomas
Pryor, John
Quinville, Frank Edmund, P. M.
Reading, George McLellan

..

309

Reading, William Francis
Sparks, Joseph John
Schweiger, Francis Paul
Stanley, Thomas Donald
Smith, Francis idarian, P. M.
Thompson, William Henry
Turley, William
Weitfle, Joseph King
Wood, Francis Farlin-42.

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.
Madison, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•
BODIE LODGE, No, 252.
Bodie, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

-.

OFFICERS:

MEMBERS:
Archer, Edward Hutton
Bland, James Milton, P. M.
Bauer, Ernest Christian
Carbin, N ew;ell
Craig, Thornton
Cole, Francis
Davisson, Benj. Franklin, Sr.
Davissoi:i, Benj. Franklin, Jr.
Fredericks, John George, P. M.
Galvin, Henry
Grim, William Everett
Gose, James Christopher
Grey, William Joseph
Hall, Thomas, P. M.
Hayes, William
Hurlbut, George Rogers, P. M.

Harvey Hayden Boone, Master,
Wm. Jordan Crawford, Sen. Deacon,
William H. Thompson, Sen. Warden, Cecil B. Burkham, Junior Deacon,
John Jeffery, Junior Warden,
Nathaniel W. Boyd, Ma:rshal,
James Stuart Cain, Treasurer,
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Steward,
W,illiam McKinlay, Jr., Secretary,
........................Steward,
William Turley, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bell, Fred A.
Graham, Archie
Blanchard, Henry Clay
Hawks, James Augustus
Boone, Harvey Hayden, P. M.
Heath, Warwick Ptomy
Burkham, Cecil Bertrand
Hull, Jesse Cunningham
Boyd, Nathaniel W., P. M.
Jeffery, John
Crawford, William Jordan, P. M.
Kelly, John Nelson
Cain, James Stuart
Leale, Richard Andrew
Conger, Peter B.
Langtell, Joseph Mitchell
Davidson, Hugh Robinson
Mitchell, Hamilton George
Drennan, Alex.
Morandi, Gregory
Davis, Thomas Lewellyn
McCagran, Hugh, P. M.
Fitzpatrick, George Kenny, P. M.
McAlpin, John

John Ken.nedy, Master,
Ernest C. Bauer, Sen. Deacon,
Benj. F. Davisson, Jr., Senior W., Wm. Everett Griin, Jun. Deacon,
Clarence Noah Scoggins, Jun. W., Thomas Hall, Marshal,
James C. Gose, Treasurer,
Edward H. Archer, Steward,
Francis M. Strickland, Secriitary,
Henry B. Johnson, Steward,
George Tandy, Tyler.

•

Haines, Henry
Johnson, Henry Boneparte
Kennedy, John, P. M.
Levy, Wolf
Nieman, Robert Lee
Needham, Guy Parks
Pfannsteihl, Luis
Silberstein, Charles A. A.
Strickland, Francis Marion, P. M.
Shulte, Henry Francis
Scoggins, Clarence Noah
Stephens, John Lucas
Tandy, George
Tandy, George Washington
Tutt, John Samuel, P. M.
-31

310

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

READING LODGE, No. 254.
Redding, Shasta County.

..

Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Langdon Bailey, Master,
Charles Zwiebel, Sen. Deacon,
Wil~n C. Ponder, Sen. Warden,
John Witherow, Junior Deacon,
H. Gladstone Hill, Jun. Warden,
William Ora Blodgett, Marshal,
Chauncey Carroll Bush, Treasurer, Rudolph Andrew Saeltzer, Steward,
John Richard Lowdon, Secretary,
Sydney Marvin Stone, Steward,
Charles C. Corbiere, Chaplain,
James Albert Rote, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Harrison
Fisher, Fabian
Ashcraft, Aldis Isaac, P. M.
Garvin, Robert Jackson
Bailey, Edward Langdon
Glaszer, Peter
Bainbridge, Eugene Blackburn
Hampton, Delane Wash.
Bedford, Homer Peter
Hampton, Floyd Young
Blodgett, William Ora, P. M.
Houston, Thomas James
Brackins, Samuel Elbert
Hunter, Joseph Hammond
Brown, Henry Warren
Herron, Matthew Wilkes
Brown, Robert Anthony
Hudson, William Atherton
Bush, Chauncey Carroll, P. M.
Hill, Hehry Gladstone
Bush, George William, P. M.
Hansen, James Dudley
Campbell, William Mott, P. M.
Hoyle, James Hansen
Carson, George Campbell
Hurst, August
Collins, Richard Emmet
J ewe_tt, George Parish
Corbiere, Cha_rles Colfax, P. M.
Jacobson, Charles
Comstock, James Warren
Jones, John Rees
Dean, Arthur Mason, P. M.
Johnson, Israel Joseph, P. M.
Dean, George Edward
Lowdon, George Brownlee
DeLashmutt, George Wiley
Lowdon, John Richard, P. M.
Dennis, Leslie Mosley
Lawry, Olin Joseph
Depue, Carl Harmon
Lefebore, Joseph Jalma
Dobrowsky, Frank Reed
Ledgerwood, LeRoy
Donley, Charles Edwin
Lambson, Giles Hammon
Donley, William Albert
Mitchell, Marshall Alexander
Downing, Isaac Hayden
Moody, H e>bert Lyle
Dozier, Ernest
Merrill, Abbott
Durfee, Ulysses Grant
McNabb, William
Dustin, Fred Fay
McCarty, John LaFayette
Dittmar, Carl Frederick
McCall, John Applegate
Eaton, James Parley
Maxwell, Fred Brooks
Edge, George
Marshall, Amos Hiram
Fillman, Samuel Phillip
Newton, Orrin Lathrop

..

•

-.

Nourse, Charles Freeman
Nordyke, Byron Abram, P. M.
Niedecker, Charles Edward
Nordyke, Felix Lysancler
Orr, John Brown
Pehrson, Alfred Ferdinand
•Plymire, Fred A.
Ponder, Wilson Churchill
Primm, Franklin Pierce, P. M.
Reynolds, John Edward
Reynolds, Thomas Benjamin
Rhom, J. Thornton
Rote, .Tames Albert
Randall, Charles Alfred
Rountree, Walter Benjamin
Reid, Daniel Gerrard
Rathbun, Donaldson W.
Reading, Robert Lee
Smithson, James Stenton
Swasey, Frank Marshall, P. M.
Sanders, Edward
Sechrist, George Howard, P. M.
Smith, Thomas Burton, P. M.
Seed, Alfred

311

Sandry, Samuel
Swedburg, Eric
Saeltzer, Dudley. Victor
Saeltzer, Rudolph Moritz
Schoonover, James William
Stable, Ferdinand
Souza, Antonio Furtado, ,Jr.
Schiller, George Henry
Sweeney, Frank Thomas
Southern, Elzy Thomas
Stone, Sidney Marvin
Tucker, Arthur Henry
Tillotson, Willard Denton
Thomas, Morgan Davis
Todd, Elmer E.
Thompson, Charles Francis
Wood, William Augustus
Williams, William Wallace
Walker, Albert Edward
Watson, Eugene Sullivan
Wilson, Alva A.
Witherow, John
White, Sherman Tecumseh
Zwiebel, Charles
-112

WELCOME LODGE, No. 255.

.

Lemoore, Kings County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

•

OFFICERS:
Harry Vacher Woodgates, Master, John H. E.W. Heidom, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. E. Dingley, Senior Warden,
Willard M. Wilson, Jun. Deacon,
John H. McGlashan, Jun. Warden, John Henry Siegfried, Marshal,
John Jefferson Odale, Steward,
Gilbert E. Shore, Treasurer,
Fred Jennings, Steward,
Julius Henderson Fox, Secretary,
John Benton, Tyler.
Byron K. Sweetland, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Atkisson, John Marshal
Bovard, Phummer Harry
Bloyd, William Washington
Blakely, Charles Roy
Brothers, George Alex. J. F., P. M . Berry, Napoleon
Berry, George
Benton, John

312
Buckner, Andrew Brown
Buchanan, William Fletcher
Boyce, Wilfrid Harry
Brown, Charles Albert
Buckner, William Rollo
Carter, Marcus C., P. M.
Cross, Roy Marion
Charlesworth, Benjamin William
Coffinberry, Corbin Camden
Clark, Josiah Brown
Drummond, James Alex. Wise
Dickie, William Tupper
Dingley, William Ernest
Dingley, Frank Everet
Denton, James William
Evans, Harry Ward
Evans, Asa Jay
Elsworth, Elmer Ellsworth
Euing, Claud Lee
Foley, Robert Emmet, P. M.
Finn, Raymond Sylvester
Fox, Julius Henderson, P. M.
Donnley, Ulysses Sheridan
Greer, William Allison
Gaunt, Elmer Boon
Gorden, George
Hays, William Price
Hinkle, George Wash., P. M.
Heidom, John Henry E. Walter
Hendricks, John McElhaney
Jennings, Frederick
•
Kreyenhagen, Emil
Kurts, John Leopold
Kellar, Charles William
Kerr, Henry Clinton
Kinney, Charles Lewis
Knapp, Adolphus Eugene
Lane, Oliver Perry
Livermore, John Wilson
Latham, Charles
Marriott, Joseph

ROSTER.
Murphy, Richard Augustine
Momson, Henry
Marlow, William
Morton, Lee Weed
Merrill, Walter
Mccrady, W. Winter, P. M.
McGlashan, John Henry
McGlashan, Alexander
McLaughlin, Stiles Amorose
McCormack, James A.
McDonald, Alex. Roderick
Nidiffer, David Perkins
Odale, John Jefferson
Pratt, Leonard Hope
Porter, Silvester Douglas.
Pierce, James Henry
Ritchie, William Rufus
Ritchmond, Henry Stewart
Shore, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
Shore, Richard Edward
Sanborn, Leavitt Riley
Sanborn, William Horace, P. M.
Sweetland, Byron Kear
Siegfried, John Henry, P. M.
Schwartz, Gotlob
Stratton, George Draper
Smith, Guss
Seavers, Henry L.
Sanderson, Charles Nelson
Townsend, Eli Sheridan
Taylor, Noah Daniel
Tobin, John Coffin
Vincent, Ferdinand M.
Williams, Joel Wilson
Weems, Harry Leroy
Wilson, Thomas B.
Woodgates, Harry Vacher, P. M.
Webb, John Hinkley
Wilson, Willard Merrill
Wilson, John W.
Young, Samuel
-90

ROSTER.

313

LODI LODGE, NO. 256.
Lodi, San Joaquin County.

•

•••

•
•

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon .
OFFICERS:
Adolph Bauer, Master,
John F. Blakely, Sen. Deacon,
G. Worley LeMoin, Sen. Warden,
G. Marten Steele, Junior Deacon,
Ambus 0. Eooleman, Jun. Warden, Charles M . Ferdum, Marshal,
John Millard Blodgett, Treasurer,
Wm. Nelson Westlake, Steward,
Hilliard Elihu Welch, Secretary,
John Henry Rothwell, Steward,
Charles Roscoe Dustin, Chaplain,
Calvin Allen Bright, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Friedberger, Leo
Allen, Wilbur Sabin
Friedberger, Alex. Valentine, P. M.
Axtell, Sam Beach
Friedberger, Joseph
Buchard, Edward Adelbert, P. M.
Froehunt, Max John
Blaisdell, CharllIB Edward
Ferguson, John Charlesworth
Barbour, Nathan Roswell, P. M.
Gum, Adelbert Keller
Beckman, Henry Christopher
Garretson, George R.
Blodgett, John Millard, P. M.
Galloway, John H.
Blodgett, Waltu Scott
Grosshauser, Frank
Buck, Charles Henry
Hageman, Charles
Buchman, George 'William
Hale, John Ralodine
Bright, Calvin Allen
Harris, Samuel Milton
Bauer, Adolph
Henning, Frank Albert
Blakely, John Frederick
Hines, Lloyd B.
Brown, William Clifford
Hogan, Eugene Sue
Craig, Howard Miller
Hogan, George
Corson, Charles Hartwell, P. M.
High, James Hamlin
Churchman, Benjamin Conway
Hopkins, James Emmet
Colman, Frederick William
Jackson, Bernard
Clark, William Sibley
Kettelman, David
Cary, Edward Colfax
Keagle, George Andrew, P. M.
Cary, Fred Grant
LeMoin, George Worley, P. M.
Cogswell, NathanieJ Merrill
Lillie, John Harry
Clements, John Henry
Lillie, Charles .Franklin
Chrisman, Frank
Martin, Robert William, P. M.
Clark, Harvey Smith
Magee, Stillman Look
Dustin, Charles Roses
Montgomery, John Silas
·DelValle, Jacob
Mason, Louis T.
DelValle, Joseph
McClure, Richard Burton
Eooleman, Ambus Ozro
McClellan, ·William Cyril
Ea ton, Edgar Jay
Norton, Charles Willis, P. M.
Elder, Isaac Arthur
Nelson, Svend Christian
Foster, George Albert
Norton, Oscar Orlando
Ferdun, Charles Marshman, P. M.

314

ROSTER.

Newfield, Marcus
Poppe, Frank
Pearson, Benjamin Franklin
Popi, Edgar Henry
Rothwell, John Henry
Seigel, William Frederick
Sanborn, Horatio Wallace, P. M.
Sollars, Charles
Sterling, John Calhoun
Stuckey, Ora Ottuwa
Spooner, William Alden, P. M.
Stannard, Henry Bert
Schu, Robert Alexander
Shaver, Charles M.

.

Steam, Edwin George
Springer, William Andrew
Stub, George Martin
Thomayer, William.Jacob
Tindell, Pleasant Hay, P. M.
Weiblen, Frank
Welch, Edwin Forest
Welch, Hilliard Elihu, P. M.
Whittaker, Marion Wm.
White, Corwin Douglas
Westlake, William Nelson
Wooten, Joseph Bivens
Wright, Edgar B.
Zimmerman, Sam Herman · -94

ROSTER.

•

Rackliffe, Pitt Bartlett
Roberts, Robert William, P. M.
Roberts, David Allan
Schmitt, John Jacob
Scroggs, Chester Alexander
Shepherd, Benjamin Walker
Small, Frank Elwin
Smith, Arthur Edward Hughes
Smith, Mortimer Leggett

315

Spratt, Newton Glascoe
Taylor, Harry Leonard
Taylor, Howard Beeford
Torrence, Charles
Turner, Frederick William
Wallace, John
Worth, Elmer Jacon
Wilder, Abbott Pierson

--47

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.
Riverside, Riverside County:
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.

PENRHYN LODGE, No. 258.

•

•

Penryn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Robert Kayo, Master,
Wm. E. Linninger, Sen. Deacon,
Fred. Wm. Turner, Sen. Warden,
W. Bigford Boller, Jun. Deacon,
F. Elwin Small, Junior Warden,
Charles Carlson, Marshal,
Robert Wm. Roberts, Treasurer,
John Gove Boggs, Steward,
George Carl Boller, Secretary,
Harry Lenard Taylor, Steward,
William Archibald, Chaplain,
Owen Rowland Owen, Tyler. ·

. .. .

MEMBERS:
Boggs, John Gove
Boller, George Carl, P. M.
Boller, Warren Bigforth
Brooke, Wm. Ansil, P. M.
Butler, Harry Everett
Brainard, Charles G.
Carlson, Charles
Day, Samuel Chester
Eckhardt, Albert Dostel
Eckhardt Earnest Frank
Files, John William
Fippins, William Wheeler
Ford, Robert Wharton
Freed, Clark V erian
Howell, Harry Burton

Hughes, David Griffith
Katzenstein, Edmund
Kayo, Robert, P. M.
Laird, Samuel Clark
Linninger, Wm. Ervin, P. M ..
Logan, Robert Adelbert
Manley, John Moreley Everett
Martin, Charles, P. M.
Mason, Frederick Julian
Misley, Thomas Brazil
Miles, Frederick Charles, P. M.
Owen, David Robert
Owen, Owen Roland
Pendleton, George Hamilton
Phillips, James P. Medland, P. M.

•
•

OFFICERS:
Henr.y Dearborne French, Master, John Harvey Ellis, Sen. Deacon, '
C. Bowdoin Bayley, Sen. Warden,
A. Alex. Piddington, Jun. Deacon;
James Earl Drayton, Jun. Warden, John T. Jarvis, Marshal,
Menno S. Bowman, Treasurer,
John Green Bayley, Steward,
Robert Preston Cundiff, Secretary, Joseph Wm. Cornwell, Steward,
Herbert Elmon Benton, Chaplain,
William Edward Hibble, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
. Alguire, Myron
Boyd, J. Calvin
Alguire, Urban
Boyer, Lewis Alexander
Allen, Benjamin Franklin
Bray, William Frederick, P. M.
Allrem, Ralph Loyd
Brownscomb, Thomas Fairchild
Andrus, Elmer Charles
Brown, Lyman Vanwinkle
Anderson, Wm. Austin, P. M.
Brown, Alva Thurlow
Atwood, Charles Goodrich, P. M:
Brock, William Ernest
Babcock, J. W.
Buchler, Richard M.
Baker, Judah Sears
Buckley, Henry Demetrius
Barker, Charles Owen
Burgess, Clayson Sylvester
Barnes, Lucius B.;P. M.
Burnham, Daniel Heath
Bayley, John G.
Campbell, Albert Park
Bayley, Charles Bowdoin
Caldwell, Albert Augustine
Beamer, Jacob Eden
Carr, William Wallace
Benton, Herbert Elmon
Castleman, Stanley Joseph, P. M.
Bittinger, George E.
Castleman, John Saxton
Binney, Joshua
Castleman, Pember Stearns
Boalich, Edwin A.
Chase, J. W arrcn
.
Boggs, Augustus Wash.
Chamblin;. WilbEr Newton, P. M.
Bonham, John
Clark, Walttr David
Bowman, Meno S., P. M.
Clark, Arthur B.

31ti

Clancy, William Bernard, P. M.
Coulter, Frederick Porter
Cox, John Henry Dutcher
Cox, William Emery, P. M.
Cundiff, Robert Preston
Cunningham, Geo. Dimock, P. M.
Cuthbertson, James
Cuttle, Francis
Daniels, Milton J.
Darling, Lorenzo Franklin, P. M.
Davis, Frank Clark
Davis, George Robert
Delano, Francis Junius
Dennie, George Charles
Dickson, Charles Sanford
Dale, George Hathaway
Dowler, William Rose
Drayton, James Earl
Dunbar, Frederick Martin
Dunlap, Horace G.
Ellie, John Harvey
Euderley, Frederick W.
Estudillo, Miguel
Fairchild, Thomas
Fish, John Wallace
Filkins, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Flagg, James Alfred
French, Henry Dearborn
Freeman, Frank Wright
Gage, William Judson
Gamble, Austin Abraham
Gates, DeRoy Harkness
Gill, Lafayette
Gilliland, Hosea Franklin
Gray, Charles R.
Gray, Howard P.
Griffith, Thomas R.
Gunderson, Halvor
Gonsolus, Philip Andrew
Hall, Priestly
Hamilton, Charles DeC.
Hamilton, Ernest G.
Hamilton, Ralph Alexander
Ha=ond, Harry Walter, P. M.
Hancock, Claude Perceval
Harger, K. D.

ROSTER.
Hathaway, Walter Scott
Hawes, Norman Sunderland
Hays, Howard Thomas
Hayt, William Augustus
Heath, Frederick Miller
Hebert, Charles Prescott
Hedger, Leonard Weyman
Hellmer, William Zeaman
Hewett, Theodore Dwight
Hinckley, Samuel Bond, P . M.
Hibble, William Edward
Holt, Amos Kendall
Holland, Joseph Howard
Horton, Abraham Anderson
Horton, Joseph Robert .
Hotchkiss, Stephen Stearns
Hull, John Wyatt
Humphreys, John Fletcher
Hungate, James De Pausen
Huse, Curtis Ferdinand
Jackson, Lewis Edward
Jarvis, John T., P. M.
Jarvis, Joseph
Jenkins, Robert Theo.
Johnson, Eugene .Christian
Keith, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Kelsey, George Hyde, P. M.
Kightlinger, Elmer Elisworth
Kirkendall, James Leonidas
Kimbell, Lewis
Kjellburg, Gunner
Klinefelter, Peter K.
Knight, Lewis A.
Lamar, Richard David
Leighton, Hampton Wild
Lewis, Arlington Cyrus
Lightner, Felix
Longfellow, Byron Melnot, P. M.
Lowell, George Willard
Martin, Achilles
Mason, Dwight Bieco
Maynard, Horton Dunbar
McBain, Daniel
McDougall, Jamee
McEhinney, Robert T.
McFarland, Chauncey Loth

ROSTER.

•

..

...

•

;McKennon, Theopholis A.
:McKenney, Jonathan W.
:Merrill, Charles Henry
Miller, Herman Donnell
:Miller, Andrew William
:Milliken, Peter, P. M.
Mitchell, David G.
:Morrison, Francis Templeton
Moulton, Ernest Smith
:Moorman, Orange L:
Moore, Charles Gardner
Newman, Gustavus Olivio
Newman, Lewis Henry
North, John Greenleaf
Noyse, Frank Albert
Noyse, Joseph Sebley
Ocheltree, Arthur Robinson
Paddock, Job Albert
Palm~.r, Oscar Jacob
Papineau, Ottley
Parker, Ashley Stephens, P. M.
Parkhurst, John
Pearson, George Mitchner
Peter, Frederick
Phelps, William Wyke&
Piddington, Alfred Alexander
Purington, William Ansel
Putnam, Nathan T.
R_ayner, Edward
Reynolds, George Necol
Rice, Charles Thomas
Rice, Almer L.
Riddle, George
Robinson, William Henry
Robertson, Robert P.
Rockhold, John Ellsworth
Ro·gers, John
Roles, C. Grant
Rouse, Gaylor

317

Russell, Wilson Byron, P. M.
Russell, Zadoc
Samuelson, William
Sanker, Sylvester
Sanborn, Kingsbury, P. M.
Schwab, Peter
Seburn, Thaddeus K.
Shaw, Rupert
Shiels, Charles Montgomery
SickeJsmith, Fuller Duncan
Skinner, George Mortimer, P. M.
Small, Henry Kimball
Stower, Alex. Campbell
Taylor, Benjamin S.
Thayer, George Richard
Thomas, Ray Charles
Tibbals, Barnabas
Tuell, B. J etferson
Twogood, Milo Judson
Van Fleet, Mayne L.
Vermason, Cornelius
Vosburgh, Charles H.
Vredenburgh, John R.
Waddingham, Edward Francis
Waite, Charles Edgar
Wallace, Thomas Clarence
Ward, George Franklin
Way, Ellsworth Henry
Webb, Edward D. Hatton, P. M.
White, Samuel Adame
Widaman, Oliver P.
Wilson, Frank Pierce
Wildes, Frank Augustine
Wildes, Samuel Morrison
Witherspoon, Isaac Alex.
W othley, Frederick Almon
Young, Cornelius
Young, John Torrance
Younkin, Albert
-'H2

318

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No.

260.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Mabery Davis, Master,
Ed. Anton Janssen, Sen. Deacon,
E. Elmer Conn, Jun. Deacon,
Ira Sedley Hobbs, Sen. Warden,
R. V. Whiting, Jun. Warden,
Frank Paul SimD¥Jn, Marshal,
William Parker Filmer, Treasurer, John Harrold Murch, Jr., Steward,
Hermann Wm. Noethig, Steward,
Harry Baehr, Secretary,
Hiram Frenc~ Wright, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Belser, Julius Henry
Ahlborn, Henry
Ahlers, Henry C.
Beretta, Caesar Louis
Bertrand, Frederic Joseph
Aitken, George Joseph
Alexander, Archibald Mcintosh,
Bethell, Thomas Waldron
Birdsall, Walter Buell
Alexander, Harry
Blade, Arthur Macdonald, P. M.
Alexander, William Frederick
Blakely, Joseph Henry
Altvater, Edward Louis
Ai;nbrose, Frank Murray
Block, Archibald Ira
Boardman, Wilbur Fisk
Anderson, Julius
Bolte, Carl Noble
Armbrust, Adolph Charles
Bone, John Christopher
Armstrong, James William
Bonney, Charles Sumner
Ascher, Henry Dietrich
Bottomley, Liberty Halstead
Asher, Maurice Louis
Bowers, Charles Silvey
Auld, Ernest Christian
Aust, Frank William
Boyan, Charles Max ·
Bradley, John Joseph
Austin, Arthur Thomas Craxford
Broad, Alfred Fry
Ayers, Clarence Warwick
Brobeck, William Irvin
Ayers, Herman Charles
Brough, Henri Bruce
Ayers, John Clarkson
Brown, John Fred
Ayers, Lyttleton Fennimore
Brown, Richard
Babine, Alexis Vassilyevitch
Browne, Allan Henry
. Bacon, Gaston Ernest, P. M.
Bader, Henry
Browne, Thomas Henry
Bucher, Charles Columban
Baehr, Harry
Buescher, Arthur Gustave
Banks, William Edward
Buetow, Frederick Wm. Carl
Barclay, Alex. James
Bartlett, Walter Jason Robert
Bunnell, Edwin
Batkin, Alfred Augustus
Burden, Frederic Alex.
Baum, Simon
Burich, George
Beall, Samuel Josiah
Burnley, Alfred
Carpenter, John Lewis
Beanston, Peter
Bell, Arthur Reginald
Chapin, Frank Eugene
Bell, Charles Henry
Chevalier, Edward Victor

•

.

•

Childs, Bolton Gardner
Christman, George
Cleve, Clarence Taylor, P. M.
Cluness, William Ross, Jr.
Cohn, Max Meyer
Cole, William Lake
Colton, Alric Oswy
Conn, Edward Elmer
Connolly,. William Michael
Cook, Abijah Catlin
Cook, Jesse Brown
Cordell, Edward Charles
Cords, David Andrew
Cords, William G.
Corliss, Edward Mitchel
Couper, August
Cox, Alex. Middleton
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel
Cranston, John
Creswell, Harry Thornton
Croes, Charles Vernon
Crough, John Arthur
Curran, Daniel Joseph
Curry, Charles Forrest
Danforth, Edwin, P. M.
Daverkosen, Frank Edward
Davidson, Louis Naphthaly, P. M.
Davies, William Henry
Davis, George Mabery
Davis, Griffith
Davis, Henry H.
Dawson, George Charles, P. M.
Dean, Robert Armstrong
Dean, Stephen John
Deckelman, Hiram Abiff
Denhard, Otto Ernest
LeLuca, Gesualdo
Depew, Charles Milton
Detjen, Henry Louis
deWit, Henry Albert
De Young, Michel Henry
Dibble, Oliver
Dickson, Edward Augustus
Dixon, Samuel Wash.
Doane, George Alfred
Dobbin, Hamilton Henry

Dodge, Henry Wash.
Donlon, Thomas Arthur
Doose, John Christian
Dore, Emile
Downey, George Wright
Dreher, Frederick Louis
Drinkhouse, Frederick Rosenbaum
Drucker,. George Ihmer
Duke, Thomas Samuel
Dunlevy, Chas. Ed. Sheridan
Dunn, Albert Wheelock
Dunne, James Patrick
Edwards, Edward
Egan, Edward Matthew
Eichorn, Julius Anthony
Eisert, Henry William
Elliott, Charles Cornelius
Elliot, Charles Melville
Ellis, John Craw
Emanuel, Samuel
England, William Albert
Ernst, Thomas Eubanks, James Clarence
Eva, James Martyn
Eva Samuel James
Fannin, James Henry, Jr.
Farnsworth, Edward P.
Faulkner, Richard Douglas
Federspiel, Sophus
Felter, William Rensalaer
Fetter, Ferdinand
Fiddes, Oscar Henry
Filmer, George
Filmer, William Parker, P. M.
Finberg, Martin Isaac
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph
Fletcher, George Robert
Fletcher, Joseph Marshall
Frank, Jacob, P. M.
Fuller, George Washington
Gamble, Frederick Nixon
Gard, John Cecil
Gardner, George Henry
Gaston, Henry Carson
Gates, Harry Everett
Gauld, George Green

319

::120

Gay, Frank Henry
Gedge, Donald McCulloch
Gellert, Isaac
. George, Louis Elstner
Gerdes, Henry George
Gilbert, Melvin Elam
Gillman, Thomas
Gilmore, John Henry
Gilson, Alfred Goodrfoh
Ginley, Edward
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton
Goldstone, Joseph
Goldstone, Leo William
Goodman, Jacob Leon
Gorman, Edward Mitchell
Gorman, James Bartholomew
Gould, Frank Horace, P. M.
Graham, George Davis
Graham, Gilbert Fuller
Graham, Rob_ert Fox
Green, Frederick Pell
Green, Henry Lloyd
Grundel, Otto Ferdinand
Gunzendorfer, Gustave, P. M.
Haag, Charles Paul
Hagedorn, August George
Halsted, James Lafayette
Handley, Charles James
Hare, George Arthur
Harlow, George Totten
Harris, Cyrus Burnett
Harris, Henry
Harris, James William
Harris, Marshall C.
Hart, Henry Hersch
Hart, Sydney
Hartley, Roland English, P. M.
Harvey, Joseph
Hatch, James Henry
Hatcher, James Berry
Hatfield, Arthur Solomon
Hathaway, William Russell
Hawkes, Robert Hamilton
Hawthorne, Charles Ralph
Hebbard, James Charles Bacon
Hegeman, Frederick Mehno

ROSTER.
Heinecke, George
Henderson, Alexander Boyd
Henderson, John
Hertz, Louis
Higgins, Charles Clunn
Hinkel, Charles Lewis
Hinkel, George Washington
Hobbs, Ira Sedley
Holje, Mfl,rtin
Holling, Frederick Charles
Honigsberg, Hubert Sylvain
Hoover, George Spencer
Hosmer, Frank Wicks
Hosmer, John Allen, P. M.
Huber, Martin Henry
Huber, Otto Frederick
Huff, Wm. Henry Routin
Hughes, Edward Calvin
Hulling, James Alexander
Hult, Clarence Albin
Huns~ker, Hiram Walker
Hutchings, Hiram Samuel
Hyer, John Jacob
Ingerson, Harry Ford
Irvine, John Christopher
Irwin, Joseph Newman Hall
Jackson, Archibald
Janssen, Edward Anton
Jellison, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Johnson, Henry
Johnston, James
Johnston, John
Jones, Ottiwell Wood
Jones, Richard Huber Sayers
Kalben, Edward Charles
Kant, Arthur Marcus
Kant, Max David
Kayton, Abraham Harold
Kernell, Andrew Jackson
Kerr, David
Kidd, Arthur
Kimble, Charles William
Kinread, William Henry
Kirkwood, Benjamin
Klein, Adolph
Knapp, Wilbur Frederick

ROSTER.
· Knight, Ray Nathaniel
Kochman, Michael J.
Koch, John
Koop, Otto Lewis
Kroenke, August Ernest
Kroenke, Edward Henry Ferd.
Kuchmeister, Henry Andrew
Kucich, Spiro
La Berge, Walter Clifford
Lange, Charles Edward
Lau, Albert Henry
Law, Hartland
Lawrence, Daniel Mack
Layng, John Beatty
Layng, William Gibtion
Leete, Walter Howard
Levison, Harry
Levy, Melville Samuel
Levy, Sylvain Samuel
Lewis, Emanuel
Lewis, Mark Emanuel
Lieb, Warren Frederick
Linde, Theodore
Lindsay, Fred Johnston
Little, William Thomas
Livingston, Harvey L.
Lockwood, Frank Edgar
Lockyer, Frank Herbert
Loud, Eugene Francis
Lowenberg, Albert Joseph
Lurmann, Frederick William
Lurmann, Carl Fritz
Lynch, Henry Hudson
MacDonald, Allan
Maddock, Robert Henry
Maginnis, Charles
Manning, George Patrick
Manning, Horatio Seymour
Marais, Charles Louis P., P. M.
Marcus, Siegfried
Marlin, William Abel
Marshall, Joseph Lawrence
Martin, Henry Sebastian
Martin, Oliver Brooks
Martin, Robert S.
Mathison, John Alfred
21

Mayers, Edgar John
McCullough, Edwin Clifford
Mcilvaine, Winfield Kennedy
McKee, William Joseph
McKelvey, Samuel, P. M.
McMullen, Burton Fletcher
McMullen, Lewis Green
Mee, John Sydney
Meinen, Fred August
Merralls,- William Augustus
Metson, William Henry
Meussdo.rffer, Charles George
Meyer, Adolph
Meyer, Albert Adolph
Miller, Adam
Miller, Gustave Edward
Miller, Jesse Harrison
Miller, Joseph B.
Millman, Louis Philip
Minedew, Oliver Francis
Mitchell, John Renton
Mocker, Andrew
Moelk, Henry' Peter
Monckton, Frank Daniel
Moore, Robert Bruce .
Moores, Charles William
Morgan, Percy Tredegar
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Morris, Milton Edward
Morton, Thomas
Morton, Thomas John
Mote, Elmer Ell!1worth
Mues, John Frederick
Mm1.dell, William Anderson
Murch, John Haven
Murch, John Harold, Jr.
Nauert, August Bertram
Neal, Geo~ge Folger
Nelson, Peter Nicoll
Neville; Samuel Edmund
Nieison, Thomas
Nichols, Hiram Delbert
Noethig, Hermann William
Norris, Eugene Joseph ·
Ochsner, Richard Leon
0 'Connor, Edward Arthur

.321

322

ROSTER.

Ogden, Marion Macquewan
Ohm, Rudolph Ferderick
O'Keeffe, Daniel Joseph Augustin
Olcovich, Julian Herrman
Packer, Charles Henry
Park, Burnett Cain
Peek, Allen Harris
Peek, George Foster
Pennycook, William Gemmel
Peters, Henry
Peterson, George
Peterson, Ivan
Petrie, Frank Branson
Pickard, Charles
Place, George Coxon
Pratt, Frank
Preston, James Theo.
Price, William
Proll, William Reginald
Rainsbury, John'
Raisch, Albert John
Raisch, William Christopher
Ralston, Franklin .Freeman
Randall, Charles Henry
Ranft, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Rankin, Samuel Hamilton
Recarte, Domingo Henry
Redmond, Ezekiel
Regensburger, Martin
Reynolds, Johnson, P. M.
Rice, William Henry
Richards, James Henry
Rier, August Fredrich
Rixon, Albl!rt William
Roethe, Charles Henry
Rogers, Herbert Oliver
Rogers, Samuel Lucius
Rohtle, Peter Frederick
Rosendorn, Solomon
Rosekrans, Ieaac Newton
Ross, William Moulton
Rossick, Frank
Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Rupp, George Paul
Rushton, Charles Austin
Russell, Lee Fontaine

Ryan, Frank Bradberry
Ryfkogel, William James Yuill
Salsbury, Charles
Saxton, James George
Saylor, William Henry
Schalitz, Carl Louis
Schiff, Edwin Raymond
Schleicher, August Frederick
Schloss, Aaron, P. M.
Schmidt, Walter Bernhard
Schnee, Gustave
Schober, Henry Julius
Schord, Louis Gustaf
Schussler, Toby
Shilling, Levi
Silver, Mark Butler
Simmen, Frank Paul
Skellinger, Harry Dow
Smiley, Samuel Patton
Smith, Andrew Francis
Smith, Charles Alfred
Smith, Emory Evans
Smith, Frank Landers Markham
Smith, John Thompson
Smith, Lars Anderson
Smith, Samuel Harrison
Smyth, Owen Henry
Spanton, James
Sparrow, Arthur James
Spaulding, James Garfield
Spowart, James Beverage
Sproule, William
Staneart, John Warren
Steiner, Joseph Samuel
Stevens, James William
Stevenson, Samuel Boyd, P. M.
Stewart, Charles Richard
Stott, Joseph Hood
Stratton, Owen Tully
Shur, Herrman Fred, Jr.
Tade, John Edwin
Thaten, Peter Hansen
Thomas, Allen Lloyd
Thomas, Francois Charles
Thomson, Harry Stoddard
Toni, Edward George

•

ROSTER.

•

•

Toothill, Albert
Tracey, Robert Eugene
Tracy, Theo, Foster
Tryon, William Merrill
Turner, Ernest
Van Emon, Burton Charles
Veit, Mathfas
Vincent, William
Vogelsang, Alex. Theo.
Waas, Louis Henry Hermann
Wagener, Francis Emil
Wagner, Henry Fred
Wahl, Carl
Walker, Robert Andrew
Warfield, Richard Emerson
Warwick, David .
Warwick, James
Warwick, James Blain
Watkins, Joseph
Webster, Frank Woodward
Welch, James Francis ~
Weihe, Otto Albert
Wendell, Clarence Theo.
Wertheimer, Bertram Ed.
Wertheimer, .u.aufman
Wetherbee, Charles

323

Wetherb\le, George
W ethered, William Lowry
Whiting, Randolph Virginius
Whitley, Gerald Storer
Whitson, John Granville
Wieboldt, Peter Wm. Nicholas
Wilkinson, William
Williams, Percy Alton
Williams, Thomas Carlisle
Willis, Christopher Cooke
Wise, Wallace Christian
Wisefiock, John Michael
Witham, Walter Dunham
Witham, William Leonard
Wittman, George Walter, P. M.
W olpmann, Dietrich
Wood, Thomas
Wood, Fred Burrage, P. M.
Wrenn, John Winchester
Young, Henry Fred
Young, James
Zahler, Emil Frederick
Zellerbach, Isadore
Ziliani, Faustino
Zollner, Alfred

TUSCAN LODGE, No.

-485

261.

Williams, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Horace Herbert Rathbun, Master, John F. Abel, Jr., Sen. Deacon,
Geo. Abner Ware, Sen. Warden,
Geo. Wm. Barker, Junior Deacon,
Stephen S. Eakle, Jun. Warden,
Austin Arthur Entric9.n, Marshal,
James McF. Stovall, Treasurer,
William Curtis Tulley, Steward,
Chas. Lemuel Schaad, Sec;etary,
Benj. Franklin Peters, Steward,
Hiram Curl Stovall, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abel, George Lambert
Anthony, Orville Angelo
Abel, Henry Herman
Anthony, George Jonathan
Abel, John Frederick, Jr., P. M.
Apple, Joseph Henry
Anthony, Lewis Hurd, P. M.
Barber, Frank William

ROSTER.

324

Barker, George William
Boardman, Francis Marion
Bosworth, Henry Clark
Bond, David Milton
Brim, John Wiley
Crutcher, James Wilson
Clark, Reuben, P. M.
Comstock, Geo. Courtland, P. M.
Corse, John Mitchell
Entrican, Austin Arthur, P. M.
Eakle, Stephen Smith
Fouch, John Franklin, P. M.
Fouch, Ira Albert, P. M.
Graham, Patrick Henry
Hemenway, George
Harris, Joseph Warren
Jackson, Calvin
Kimball, A. Welliii.gton, P. M.
Kidd, Floyd Edwin
Knutzen, Edgar Hound
Manor, Lewis G.
Mitchell, David Grove
Mendenhall, John Linc.l~ay

Noble, William Wallace
Northey, George Vine
Northey, Percival Hamilton
Olesen, Peter
Peters, Benjamin Henry
Peters, Benjamin Fra~klin
Pryor, Benjamin Pollartl
Rathbun, Joseph Edwin, P. M.
Rathbun, Horace Herbert
Schaad, Charles Lemuel
Schaad, Clarence August
Schuckman, Frank James
Schuckman, Charles Walter
Spencer, John Anderson
Stovall, Hiram Curl, p, M.
Stovall, James McFerran
Sutton, Adam Fisher
Tulley, William Robert
Tulley, William Curtis
Ware, George Abner
Welch, Robert Francis
West, Charles Edward, P. M.
-53

ROSTER.

'

•

•

•

LOMPOC LODGE, No. 262.
Lompoc, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS : ·
Julius Klein, Master,
Arthur Rudolph, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Lyman Talbot, Sen. Warden, Robert Danneberg, Jun. Deacon,.
Nis L. Spanne, Junior Warden,
Gerhard Tonbery Holst, Marshal,
James Sloan, Treasurer,
James Henry McGee, Steward,
H . Harrison Lambert, Secretary,
Sanford Beatty, Steward,
Albert Hull Dyer, Chaplain,
Austin C. Warwick, Tyler.
Andrews, Owen Merriwether
Bayley, Bel'ljamin Franklin
Ball, Walter Colton
Browne, Frederick Dorwin
Bailey, William Henry
Beardslee, William Satterlee
Beatty, Sanford Wilson

MEMBERS:
Boyd, Alden March
Burns, Alfred Isaac
Corbett, Frederick William
Dockery, John
Dimock, Harry Clinton, P . M.
Dimock, Joseph
Dewing Alonzo Wilson

Dean, James Burroughs
Dyer, A,lbert Hull
Dreyfus, Gaston
Danneberg, Robert
Earl, James Fennel
Elkins, Iris Benson
Eefsen Valdamar
Fields, Ezra Grant
Gleaves, Archibald Duncan
Griffin, Richard S.
Graham, James William
Holst, Gerhard Tonberg
Irwin, John Lloyd
Jackson, William, P. M.
Jackson, Walter King
Klein, Julius
Kelliher, Mayville Sumpter
Kidd, Robert Boben
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Lind, John Christian
Lehmann, Armand, P. M.
Lewis, Frank Stanton
Lehmann, Charles Emile
Meade, Alonzo
Miller, Robert Eugene
Montieth, Andrew Ector
Morrey, Herbert Peter, P. M.
Mattei, Frank Peter
Miller, Robert Luther
Meals, Charles Andrew
McCabe, Henry Edwin

325

McCabe, Harry C.
McGee, James Henry
McGregor, Robert Roy
McPhail, Albert Franklin
Peck, Wright Hunt, P. M.
Poland, Henson, P. M.
Perry, Thomas Longworth
Pontius, David Williard
Poulsen, Jens Peter
Rucker, Geo. Ferguson, P. M.
Rudolph, Harvey Sampson
Reynolds, Geo. Edgar
Rosendale, Henry Johannes
Rudolph, Arthur, P. M.
Rudolph, John Franklin
Raymond, Eward P.
Sudden, William Jienry, P. M.
Smith, James Henry
Spanne, Nis Lauritzen
Sheridan, Elmer Mccaskey
Starr, Edward Bean
Sloan, James
.Truitt, Daniel Tingle
Truitt, Samuel Paul
Talladay, Jerome W.
Thompson, John Henry
Talbott, Homer Irwin
Talbott, William Lyman
Warwick, Austin C., P. M.
Weill, Armond Charles
Wilkin, Edwin Chester, P. M. -76

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

OFFICERS:
Albert Allen Dudley, Senior Deacon,
George Gilbert Brown, Jun. Deacon,
Ormand P. Paulding, Marshal,
Mark R. Bussell, Steward,
Charles B. Dutcher, Steward,
John Harrison Haydon, Tyler.

Manuel Francisco Pires, Master,
Hugh F. Robertson, Senior Warden,
Francis E. Hebard, Jun. Warden,
Paul Otto Tietzen, Treasurer,
Robert Travers, Secretary,
Benj. Dudley Snudden, Cha plain,

ROSTER.

326

MEMBERS :
Abler, Henry John
Kelley, William F.
Armstrong, Charles W.
Kennedy, Albert Patterson
. Bagby, Henry Clay, P. M.
Kobloth, Julius
Baker, Frederick Arthur
Liben, John Babtiste
Baker, Major P .
Lind, James Melche
Barnes, William
Linderman, Fred
Bell, Benjamin Franklin
Lengfeld, Karl 0. G.
Blosser, Lorenzo Waugh
Livingston, Charles Simon
Bradley, Charles
Logan, John Samuel
.·
Brown, Marcellus
Logan, William Pleasant
Brown, George Gilbert
Long, John
Buchanan, Porter
Maulsby, Larkin W.
Bussell, Mark R.
Martin, Charles LeRoy
Cost, August
Marsh, Walter John
Crees, Robert
Miller, Isaac, Jr.
Crow, Samuel Eugene
Moore, Harvey A.
Cuff, Charles Arms trong
Mudgett, Samuel
Culp, William Woods
Murdock, Charles Wallace
Dutcher, Charles B.
McGuire, Irving Nolan, P. M.
Doane, George Mason
McGuire, Mortimer Lafayette
Dudley, Albert Ailen
Nance, Thomas
Easton, Robert Eastman
N erverth, Stephen
Ebel, Julius
Norris, John McNeil
Fesler, Stephen
Orr, Adison Harvey, P. M.
Fesler, Sterling Oliver
Paulding, Ormand Pinkerton
Froom, Acel Harvey
Pires, Manuel Francisco
Gardner, Charles Vergil
Prell, John Gottlob
Goo<lwin, .James Franklin, P. M.
Priesker, Thomas
Grimt, John W.
Rice, John Tandy
Grant, Robert Bruce
Robertson, Hugh Franklin
Grissingher, Guiseppe
Sawyers, Wade Hampton
Hanlin, Clarence Vincent
Scarvni, Lepold Pio .
Harris, Henry Hersh
Shuman, John Lennington
Haydon, John Harrison
Sinsheimer, Samuel Charles
Hanerton, Matt Warm
Spalding, David Carter
Heath; John Holloway
Smith, John William
H ebard, Francis Edward
Stilwell, William Wilson, P. M.
Heller, Herman Alwin
Stow, Dudley Dunning
Herron, James Williamson, P. M.
Stowell, Henry Edgar
Hickey, Abraham Lincoln
'rhornburg, Madison, P. M.
Houk, John
Thornburg, Frank Leslie
Jones, Albert Rennels
Tietzen, Paul Otto
Jones, Warden S.
Travers, Robert, P. M.
Kaiser, Joseph
Treat, James Madison
Kelley, H enry Josep.i
Trumbull, William Washington

ROSTER.

•

. -

Tunnell, William Hulbert, P. M.
Tunnell, Henry Clay
Twitchell, Fremont C., P. M.
Walker, William Frederick
Walker, James
Walker, John E.

327

W eilheimer, Alfred
Williams, Thomas Jeffreys
Wilcox, Scuyler Nind, P . M.
~vinters, J onn Hugh
Wolfe, John Richard
Woods, Nahum Hinckley
-102.

ORLAND LODGE, No. 265.
Orland, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

0

•

.._ .

•

OFFICERS:
Geo. Edgar Rawlins, Senior Deacon,
George E. Wright, Master,
George E. Rawlins, Senior Warden, Charles D. Miller1 Junior Deacon,
. Charles D. Miller, Junior Warden, . Thomas Brown, Marshal,
Eugene Michael Ehorn, Steward,
Wm. Wesley Thomas, Treasurer,
George Wash. Harriger, Steward,
Louis Martin Reage~, Secretary,
John Thomas, Tyler.
Mark Bailey, Chapla in,
Bailey, Mark
Bancroft, George Mason
Brown, David
Brown, Thomas, P. M.
Brown, De Arnold
Clark, Willard
Clawson, Charles Wilson
Cleek, Jeb Stuart
Conley, Joseph
Drake, Thomas Benton
Ehorn, Eugene Michael
Ehorn, Joseph Evart
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
Green, Edward Elmer
Greenwood, Willis Adelbert
Hamilton, John Cummins
Hannah, David
Harriger, George Washington
Hightower, Roy DeWitt
Holmes, Raleigh
Kastrup, Thomas Nelson
K esselring, Emanuel Bentz
Kirkpatrick, Thomas J.

MEMBERS:
Kirkpatrick, Garfield Stanley
McCandlass, Alfred Lewis
McClintock, John Porter
iuecum, Earl Horton
Miller, Charles Douglas
Milner, Thomas
Morrissey, James Byron, P. M.
Morrissey, William J;lenry, P. M.
Murdock, Robert Burns
Murdock, Gawn Worth
Murdock, Stanley Worth, P. M.
:Neilson, James
O'Hair, William B.
O 'Hair, Roy
Papst , Albert
Rawlins, George E dgar
Reager, Frank Seymour
Reager, Louis Martin
J;Wberts, Brunn Sheldon
Skillman, James Michael
Sutliff, Fred Courtland
Thomas, John
Thomas, William W esley

ROSTER.

328
Utz, Adolph Albert
Utz, Gustave
Utz, Magnus Carl
Utz, William Henry

W a tll:ins, William Wallace
Watt, George
Wright, Geol'ge Ephraim, P. M.
-53.

•

•

•

-

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266. ·
Fort Bidwell, Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Haven Fee, Master,
Roy L. Snelling, Senior Deacon,
Charles B. Kafader, Sen. Warden, Wilbert S. Ward, Junior Deacon~
Ed. C. Mcconnaughy, Jun. Warden, Frank Kas~er Smith, Marshal,
Max Fulcher, Treasurer
·
Albert Longley Baty, Steward,
Irving C. Raymond, Secretary,
Jerry Herrington, Steward,
Robert Mcconnaughy, Chaplain,
George Christie Smith, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ayres, George Hamilton, P. M.
Kober, George Martin, P. M.
Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Kober, Henry, P. M.
Baty, Albert Longley
Lowell, Albert Carrol, P. M.
Browne, Daniel Parish
Lowell, Walter Reuben
Bucher, Douglas
McConnaughy, Edward C., P. M.
Bucher, John
Mcconnaughy, Robert Franklin _
Dodson, John
Messner, Fred George
Ellis, James
Miller, Henry Horton
Fee, Charles Haven, P. M.
Raymond, Irving Clark
Flemming, Theo. Mirten
Shartel, William Warren
Fulcher, Max.
Smith, Francis Kastner
Fulcher, Frank Edward
Smith, Eber Dester
Hamlen, Alfred Marshall, P. M.
Smith, George Christie
Herrington, Jerry
Snelling, Roy L.
Hickey, James Bartlett
Tonningsen, Asmus Frederick
Hunter, Hugh Alex.
Ward, Albert Smith
Jopp, Hudson Orsen
Williams, James
Kafader, Charles Daniel, P. M.
-35.

GALT LODGE, No. 267.
Galt, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

ROSTER.

329

MEMBERS:
Latourrette, Pardes H., P. M.
Adams, Charles Campbell
Lewis, Samuel Amanzo
Andrus, John
McClaughry, Samuel C., P. M.
Baldwin, Lewis Gal'dner, P. M.
Barnhart, Thomas M.
. Miles, Ralph Augustus
Bolton, Curtis Arthur
Morrison, Lebbius B.
Orvis, Joseph Lloyd
Conley, James
l<'razier, James Oscu, P. M.
Overmyer, Jonathan Moore
Prouty, William Harrison
Gaun, James Franklin
Rae, John Goodwilla
Gower, Ray Louis
Sawyer, Wallace Born
Hagel, John
Shepard, Amor D.
Harms, Frederick William, P. M.
Short, James Madison, P. M.
Hartman, John
Smith, Charles Samuel
Henley, Elihu Shields, P. M.
Thompson, James Henry, P. !If.
Hobday, Kelsey Henry
Kennedy, K.enneth Clyde
Whitaker, James
-31.
King, William Isaac

• •

..., .

DURANT LODGE, No. 268.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in ea~h month.
OFFICERS:
Melville C. Threlkeld, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Henry H. Gentry, Master,
Dozier Finley, Junior Deacon,
George Leonard, Senior Warden,
Wm. Seward Coleman, Jun. Warden, Burton James Rose, Marshal,
Reginald Atthowe, Steward,
Warren G. Sanborn, Treasurer,
Walter Alex. Gompertz, Secretary, Clarence Casebolt Dakin, Steward,
Barzillai P. Bull, Tyler.
Wm. Harrison Waste, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Bagge, Lars Brun
Baker, Barney P.
Bartlett, Thomas Edward Eve
Barton, John Edward
Beard, George Fostel'
Bell, James Aloysius
Berry, Rufus Albert
Berryman, Frederick Miles, P. M.
Berryman, John
Bevan, Lynne John
Biedenbach, Charles Louis, P. M.
Biehl, Philip F _red 'k Christian

Acheson, William John
Adler, John Olaf
Albee; Mal'shall Pickney W., P. M.
Alberti, Frank Jackson
Allen, Charles Edward
Allyn, George Spencer
Andersen, Andrew
Anderson, Arthur DeVere
Anderson, Alfred
Anderson, William Walker, P. M.
Atthowe, Reginald
Baalmann, Peter Henry John

330
Blanchard, Milton Eugene
Blank, Charles Alexander
Blohm, Charles Henry, P. M.
Boag, Matthew Pettigrew
Bolton, Adelbert Elwin
Bowman, Benjamin Franklin
Bowring, Franklin
Branthaver, Daniel
Bricker, Lorin H.
Brier, William Wallace
Bridgman, Edward Charles, P. M.
Bridgman, Harry William
Brown, George Chester
Browne, Alexis Leonidas
Bowel'!!, Jonas Erwin
Buchley, Rudolf Johannes
Bull, Barzillia P., P. M.
Burg, Edward John
Bush, Robert Edward
Bush, Will Pratt
Caldecott, John William
Caldecott, Thomas Edwin
Cameron, William Harry
Chadbourne, Thomas Edgar
Chase, John Franklin
Chase, Thomas Henry
Chick, Guy Hyde
Chilcote, Gaylord Hammond
Church, Sidney Leroy
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Clark, Thomas James
Clark, Ernest Brooks
Clemensen, Edward
Cloudman, Octavius King, P. M.
Cloudman, Harold Caldwell
Coggin&, Clifford Edmund
Coleman, William Seward
Colemore, Charles Arthur
Connor, Fred Frank
Cooley, Frederick Allen
Comish, Harry Louis
Creagmile, Thomas
Crow, Clarenqe Cross
Dakin, Clarence Casebolt
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd
Dakin, .Frederick Holroyd, Jr.

ROSTER.
Davis, David George .
Day, William
Delafield, Robert Hare, P. M.
DeLancie, Richard
Deming, James Hei:vey
Dike~an, Simon Henry
Dobbins, Hugh Hills
Dore, Cornelius William
Domin, George Dally
Dowling, Daniel Edward
Dozier, Charles Thomasson
Drum, Will Pierpont
Dungan, Herbert Leo
Dunscomb, Charles Ellsworth
Durgin, Frank Ward
Durrell, George Gilman
Edgar; Arthur
Edgar, Robert, P. M.
Edgar, Samuel
Edgar, William James
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Elyvell, Frank David
Eshelman, John Morton
Farrar, Joseph Teel
Farrar, Joseph Teel, Jr.
Fenander, Kaarlo
Ferrier, Francis
Finley, Dozier
Fischel, Simon
Foss, Martin
Foster, Charles Tilden
Fouch, Albert, P. M.
Fox, Michael Peter
Frank, Frederick Sophus
Franks, Henry Ernest
Fraser, Daniel McLeod
F?azier, Silas Henry, P. M.
Frey, Arthur Ferdinand
Fro~t, John
Galloup, Henry Clay
Gerrine, Charles AndMw
Gentry, William Henry Harrison
Gibb, Charles Leo
Gilbert, Charles Phelps
Girard, Francis John
Gompertz, Charles Felix

•

•

•

..

•

•

ROSTER.
Gompertz, Walter Alex., P. M.
Goodburn, William Robert
Goodman, William Graves
Goss, Homer
Graber, Thomas Frederick
Gregg, Thomas Monroe
Gregg, Wellington
Greig, Robert, P. M . .
Griesche, Gustave Adolph
Haines, William Barre
Hamlin, Terrel Lambert
Hampton, Joseph Charles
Harms, Edward Theo.
Hays, Thomas Abram
Heywood, Charles Dingley
Higgins, Charles Henry
Hill, William Lair
Hiney, William
Hodge, Thomas
Hopkins, William Hewes
Huberich, Victor Hugo
Hughes, Alva Fish
Hunt, Clarence Melville
Hunt, Philip M.
Hutton, James Alex.
Ison, William, P. M.
Jacobsen, Nels August
Jansen, Charles
Jenness, Herbert Henri
Jensen, Jens Peter
Jensen, John Charles, P. M.
Johnson, Harry Hubbard
Johnston, Charles Edward
Jones, Herbert
Kelsey, Frank Bayles
Kelsey, John Edson
Kierulff, Thomas Cundell
Kilburn, Cleon
Kline, George Washington
Knowles, Wm. ·A. Lindley, P. M.
Knowles, William Edward
Laine, Frederick Adolph
Lansing, Henry Day
Lassen, Fred Norman
Leonard, George
Lester, James Robert

331

Lindsay, Lionel
Little, James Edwin
Longnecker, Harry Ellsworth
Lord, Carlos Reuben, P. M.
Lorenz, William Frederick
Lutz, Albert Simon
Lockett, Albert
McCain, Charles Joseph
McCleave, Thomas Crooke
McDonald, Runcan T.
Mcintyre, Dan Hugh
McLean, Charles Henry
McMahon, Bernard Strange
McNulty, Charles Raymond
McNulty, Harry4"ames
. McNulty, James Monroe
Macomber, Benjamin
Maddrill, John William
Martin, John, P. M.
Masters, Stuart Galbraith
Mattern, George Alfred
Menefee, William Herschall, P. M.
Meredith, James Wash.
Merrill, Clarence Sidney
Merrill, Ralph Howard
Merritt, Alfred Purvanius
Mesick, William Rundle
Mesow, Frank Herman
Metcalf, George Dickson, P. M ;
Mikkelsen, Christian
Mills, Philo
Moran, William Chadwick
Morris, Moses
Morris, Ozias Manly
Morrison, Hugh Robert
Morse, Clinton Ralza
Mosher, James Walton
Needham, William Gloss
Neiman, William Frank
Nichols, John Carroll
Niehaus, Edward Ernest
0 'Brien, George William
O'Donnell, Francis Henry E., P. ·M .
Oxley, George Edmund
Patterson, Henry Robert
Peake, Frederick Richard Graham

332

ROSTER. •

Pearce, Jackson Andrew
Phillips, Welton Josiah
Pierce, Albert Ernest
Pierce, Archie Burton
Putzker, Albin
Ralston, Robert Gordon·
Ramoni, Frederick ·Louis
Randall, Henry Irwin
Rasmussen, Peter Niels
Reece, Frederick Bennett
Reef, Henry Jacob
Reid, Clarence F.
Reinhardt, George Frederick
Reist, Jay Harry
Remond, Prudent ·
Richardson, Friend William
Richter, Frederick Charles
Ricard, Thomas
Riegar, William
Roach, William Henry
Robinson, Harrison Sidney
Rose, Burton James
Rose, James
Rowell, Hubert Nathan
Rowell, Joseph Arthur
Ruble, George Frank
Runde, Christophe! Henry George
Rutherford, Robert Ruecastle
Ryder, Morgan Lewis
Sanborn, Warren Gilman
Sanchez, Joseph Gordon
Saph, Augustus Valentine
Schott, Walter Edgar
Schmitz, Hugo
Scotchler, Joseph Lincoln
Scott, George Arthur
Sharwood, William John
Shirk, David Lawson
Shoecraft, Byron Nye
Shuman, John Frankliu
Sill, Stephen Joseph
Sittig, Edward John
Slack, Walter Keyes
Smith, James Lumbert
Smith, Howard Murr!ly
Smyth, George Blood

Soule, Edward Le~
Springer; Fred Foster
Springer, George Ernest
Squires, Harry James
Stamper, Alva Walker .
Stephens, Alex. Hamilton
Stevenson, Thomas
Stewart, Robert
Stocking, Reuben Hurd
Stone, John
Stone, - - -·Strother, Horace ·Feaguis
Stubenrauch, Arnold Valentine
Such, William Thomas
Swain, George
Swayne, Richard Barnard
Sykes, Joseph Smith
Taylor, Henry Willard
Thomas, Edmund Davies, P. M.
Thomas, Edmund John
.
Thompson, Robert Crawford
Thomson, Robert
Thrall; Herbert Parsons
Traub, Harry Louis
Threlkeld, Melville Calvert
Titus, Louis
Tobin, David Joseph
Todd, Frank Morton
Van der Haas, Piete~ Adrianus H.
Van Wynen, Edward Alfred
Wadsworth, William Henry
Wagner, Peter A.
Wallace, Fred William
Walsh, Edward Marion
Wanger, Gustav Adolph
Waste, William Harrison, P. M.
Waterman, Sylvanus Dexter
Watson, Henry Hugh
Webb, Christopher Clark
Webb, George Standish
Weber, Fred Dale
Weeks, George Rufus
Weir, Robert John
Weir, William Kirkwood
Wentworth, Daniel Rodger
Whalley, Tho.mas Williams

333

ROSTER.

.

Wood, Jacob Hanlin
Woolsey, Philip Sheridan
Worden, Elisha Case
Wright, Harry Manville
Wright, William Abour:D.
Wyman, J. Henry, P. M.
Young, Roy Jackson
Young, William Albert
Zehner, Harry Scott

.Wharff, William Hatch
Wheeler, William Henry
Whitham, John Hastings
Wilcox, George L .
Wilder, John Chase
Wilkinson, Crayton Winsor
Wilson, Gustaf Herman
Wise, James Hugh
Witter, Willis Guy
Wood, Alpheus Joel

..

-319.

. OLIVE BRANCH LODGE, No. 269.
Tula.re, Tula.re County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ulysses Grant Cottle, Senior Deacon,
ueorge Carter Burnett, Jun. Deacon,
Woster Beach Cartmill, Marshal,
Melville Green Cottle, Steward,
Robert, Whaley, Steward,
Auguetns A. Hall, Tyler.

•

• I •

..

•

· Henry Whaley, Master,
Harris Oberlin Chute, Sen. Warden,
Samuel B. Anderson, Jun. Warden,
Charles F. Smithson, Treasurer,
James Winnard Davis, Secretary,
t;alvin Louis Russell, Chaplain,
Alford, Benjamin Michael
Allen, William Stanford
Anderson, James Morrow
Anderson, Frank Elliot
Anderson, Harvy George
Anderson, Samuel Barb
Abercrombie, Louis Le Bon
.nacigalupi, Theo.
Bachelder, Isaac Ottis
Blythe, Samuel Allison
Brock, Calvin Cecil, P. M.
Broadhead, John W .
Busby, Francis Marion
Boone, Thomas Lee
Blodgett, Thomas DeHaven
Beaver, Romens
Barber, Emmet
Burnett, George Carter
Cross, Thomas

MEMBERS:
Chism, James Thomas
Clark, Robert Carrick
Carruthers, Thomas Calvin
Cartmill, Wooster Beach, P. M.
Cottle, Melvin Green
Cottle, Ulysses Grant
Chute, Harris Oberlin
Cowan, Miles
Davis, James Winnard, P. M.
Elwood, John Henderson
Eldridge, Francis Marion, P. M.
Ellsworth, Frank A.
Fowler, Alonzo Tully
Fry, Angus Eugene
Fothergill, William Alfred
Ferguson, Sidney Burrell
Frazier, Alex.
Goble, John Albert, P. M.
Green, Francis Harrison

ROSTER.

334

Hall, Anson Parsons
Hatch, Charles Melzer
Hall, Albert Augustus
Hayes, Frank Peter
Higgins, William Alvey
Haney, Lewis Joseph
Jarrard, Thomas Newton
Jones, Ralph
Janes, Arthur Augustin
Jones, Thomas Woodward
Lindsay, Alfred
McMillan, Robert Thompson
Miller, Chijstian .
Monroe, Frank Marion
Moore, James Samuel
Meador, John
Moore, Stephen Baldy
Morton, James Hamilton
Martin, John
Neff, Andrew Daniel
Nutting, David Wheeler
Oakford, Edward
Pace, Henry Lee
Pratt, Clarence Francis
Parr, Edward Franklin
Premo, Walter Emil
Ratliff, William Pierce, P. M.
Ray, Randolph

ROSTER.

Rubble, Milton Alfonso
Richardson, Samitel
Russell, Calvin Louie, P. M.
Roth, George Harry
Schoenemann, Charles Samuel
Schoenemann, Louis Emil
Steinger, Edward Andrew
Sheppard, Thomas Armstrong
Shreve, Harry Marston
Smithson, Charles Fred.
Stewart, Daniel
Suiter, Henry Arthur
Thompson, Thomas Hinkley
Treadwell, James William, P. M.
Turner, Jesse Thomas
Tarkington, Mathew Simpson
Woody, John Harrison
Warner, Joseph Henry
Wilson, John Lewis
Wheeler, Alex. Woodfall
Walker, Charles Jesse
Wright, George Washington
Williams, William Payne
Whitmore, George Francis
Whitmore, Dwight Joel
Whaley, Henry
Whaley, Robert
Zartman, George Washington, P. M.
-94.

SNOW MOUNTAIN LODGE, No.

271.

Stony Ford, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next precedi:qg Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Edwin Stites, Master,
David Porter Ray, Senior Dra<nn,
Charles Alexander, Senior Warden, Wm. Joshua Lovelady, Jun. Dtacon,
James Henry Hanes, Jun. Warden, Wilbur Addison McKaig, Marshal,
Johnson Feuder, Treasurer,
John Fernando Stites, Steward,
Arthur Thomas Welton, Secretary, Charles Henry Bond, Steward,
Thomas W€sley Morris, Tyler.

335

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Charles
Morris, Thomas Wesley
Burgett, Richard Sisk
Morris, John Manor, P. M.
Bond, Charles Henry
Moon, Alfred Saxe
Boardman, Herbert Elias
Newton, George Calvin, P. M.
Barrett, Wade
Ray, David Porter
Davis, Edward
Sites, John
Feuder, Johnson
. Sites, William Franklin
Fortna, Francis Wash.
Stites, William Henry, P. M.
Haddick, Joseph Newton Morrison Stites, John Fernando'
Howard, James Wesley
Stites, Rufus Gideon, P. M.
Howard, Charles Benjamin
Stites, Samuel Edwin
Hanes, James Henry
Sanber, Hulbert Herbert
Lovelady, William Joshua, P. M.
Welton, Arthur Thomas.
McKaig, Wilbur Addison
-27.

PASADENA LODGE, No.

., .

Pasaden~, Los Angeles

272.

County.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Oscar Nay, Master,
Roscoe Paul Congdon, Senior Deacon,
John Herbert Hall, Senior Warden, Guy Stanley Bliss, Junior Deacon,
Elmer Isaac Moody, Jun. Warden, Carl Hayes Yearian, Marshal,
Sherman Washburn, Treasurer,
Walter Richard Gibbings, Steward,
Henry Ramel, S'ecretary,
William Henry Snudden, Steward,
· Henry William Meyer, Chaplain,
George Rasmas Weaver, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bisbee, Alonzo Ebenezer
Adams, Augustine Miller
Allen, Charles Emory
Black, James Robert
Allen, Clark Parker
Bliss, Guy Stanley
Allin, Charles Arthur
Bliss, Ashley
Allin, Thomas David
Blow, Richard Tunstall
Almond, Andrew
Boden, George Adam
Arnold, Delos
Bonner, Lewis Henry
Bailey, Isaac
Bonham, Perry Pollock, P. M.
Baker, John Hamilton
Boutelle, George Henry
Baugham, Jonathan Perkins
Bowman, Robert Barkley
Barnhart, Warren Earle
Breiner, John
Bartlett, Louis Azel
Briggs, Solon
Bennett, Henry Graves
Bristol, Albert Oliver
Bettes, Adoniram Monroe, P. M.
Bristol, Sidney Albert

336
Brown, Charles Cowan
Brown, Luther Grinnell, P. M.
Brown, Pa trick
Buchanan, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Buchanan, Frank Wilmer
Buckins, John Jacob
Bunnell, George Ha vila
Bunnell, Clarence Udell
Clarke, James
Clark, Laureston Livingston
Clapp, William Billings, P. M.
Clapp, William Taylor
Clifford, Arthur Miller
Coates, John
Coffman, Joshua Stevens
Colcord, Ralph Bennett
Cole, Galusha M.
Coleman, Theo.
Collins, Philip Angelo
Collis, George Watson
C_olwell, Louis Trowbridge
Congdon, Roscoe Paul
Conger, Everett Lorentus.
Conger, Howard Willis
Conger, William Henry
Cook, Arthur Newell
Cook, William B.
Coryell, George R.
Creller, Williii.m Frank
Cronkite, Henry Murray, P. M.
Cro~ell, Weymouth
Crinckshank, Falconer George
Crump, Eaward Sisson
Cundy, William Albert
Davies, Edward William
Davis, Paul McDonnell
Davis, James Porter
Day, Charles Ambrose
DeHuff, Thomas Jefferson
DeMotte, Charles Wesley
De Pencier, Silas Theo.
Dickson, Henry Leslie
·Doolittle, Samuel Hosmer
Dorn, Joseph H.
Dorr, Charles Colby
Doud, William Manning

ROSTER.·
Drawbaugh, William
Dunn, William :Henry
Dunsmoor, Albert Vandorus
Eckman, Arthur Wilson
Edmondson, James, P. M.
Edwards, Albert Ernest
Edwards, Simon Josiah
Edwards, William Bryant
Ehrenfeld, Charles
Eifler, Louis Edward
Eisenauer, Michel
Elliott, Henry Torry
Ellsworth, Herbert Lee
Ericksson, Olof Frederick
Ernsberger, Frank Armstrong
Fabian, Lionel John
Fairman, Thomas
Fansher, Samuel Wesley
.Feathe;rston, Henry Ward
Fiske, Harold Albert
Forbes, George Lewis
Ford, William W.
Foye, Frank Alonzo
Fraser, Jefferson C.
Freeman, Lingard Clay
Freeman, Oscar Otto, P. M.
Frost, George Henry
Fuller, Charles Clifford
Gammon, Ansel Elder
Gardner, Charles Andrew, P. M.
George, Herbert Edinund
Gibbings, Percy Nicholas
Gibbings, Walter Richard
Graham, James :Dawson
Greely, George Augustus
Gregory, Charles Pickett
Griffith, Edmund William
Grimes, Charles
Hahn, Benjamin Winfield
Hall, John Herbert
Hall, Peter
Halsted, John Franklin
Halsted, Richard Carlton
Hansen, Christian Martin
Hanson, Fred
Hanson, John

ROSTER.

'

.

Hanson, Nels Peter
Harris, Isaac
Hartwell, Calvin, P. M.
Hartwell, John Lovekin
Hauser, William Thomas
Hayes, Arthur Harry
Hayes, Orren Henry, P. M.
Heiss, William Albert
Herrmann, Louis
Hess, Bruce Stanley
Hickmore, John William
IDavin, Louis
Hoag, Thomas Leggett
Holloway, Andrew
Holloway, George
Hoover, Samuel Francis
Hoover, William F.
Hotaling, Henry C.
Hovey, Frederick V .
Hubinger, John Adams, P. M.
Hughes, James ~arr
Hundrup, John Peter
Hupfer, George Philip, P. M.
Ingalls, George Robie
Jarvis, Lucius Emerson
Jewell, Isaac
Johnson, Albert Ezekiel
Jones, George Danforth
Jones, Lewis Peck
Jones, Lucien Corydon
Jones, William Asbury
Jung, John Frederick
Kennan, Robert Case
King, Charles Lee
Klock, Aaron Robert
Knapp, Howard Lee
Kuhn, Henry Gustave
Lancaster, Edgar Freemont
Lancaster, Thomas Morgan
Lane, David Courtney
Laspada, Joseph
Laspada, Louis
Leech, Charles Holt
Lee, James Longbotham
Leith, Leslie Wilkinson
Lowe, John Orion
22

Lusby, John Randolph
Manning, Charles Dewey
Manning, Frank Robert
Marsh, Norman Foote
Masters, Moses Marion
McAdam, James
McAdam, Robert
McDonald, John
McDowell, Norman Dick
McDowell, Robert Snyder
McGregory, William Whitney
McLachlan, James
McPherson, James Cullen
Meacham, Albert
Menning, Charles Edward
Mercer, Albert, P. M.
Metcalf, Richard Lee, P. M.
Meyer, Henry William
Miller, Rollin Hurlburt
Mills, Frederick Milton
Mills, John Stevenson
Moody, Elmer Isaac
Norris, Charles Henry
Morrison, Charles.James
Morrow, Walter
Myers, Charles K.
Meyers, Harry Eugene
Nay, Edward Oscar
Nay, Earl Warren
Nay, Oscar Thomas
N.ewell, Harley Foster
Newman, George Weller
Nickerson, Herman Mansfie.ld
Norton, Edward Gray
Nosworthy, William Samuel
Nuss, William Henry
Packard, Elmer Charles
Paine, George Albert
Parker, David Niles
Parker, James Edward
Parks, Ion Watson
Pashgian, John Sarkis
Peaslee, John
Peck, Harry Graham
Perrin, Leonard
Pierce, Anthony R.

337

338

ROSTER.

Plant, John Henry
. Thorns, Alfred •
Prince, Purley Ogden
Thurston, Albert Greene
Quast, Herman Theo.
Todd, Isaac Newton
Raftery, Michael Loftus
Tom, George Marion
Ramel, Henry, P. M.
Tousley, Joseph Hawley
Reed, George Warren
Tracy, Coyle John
Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Tracy, James Dawson, P. M.
Rhodes, Hinman
Turbett, Albert Steel
Rice, Peter P., P. M.
Turk, John
Richardson, Warren Josiah
Turner, William D.
Roche, Albert Wilson
Tuttle, Henry Elihu
Rood, John Thompson
Tyler, Eckford Dodds
Rose, Henry Howard
Underwood, Francis Marion
Royce, Edward Horace
Vail, David
Rush, George Phillip
Van Buskirk, Morris Henry
Sandham, Frederick
Van Etten, Albert Sanford
Sawyer, Lyman M., P. M.
Vedder, William Henry
Schneider, William Charles
Vesper, Arthur Eugene
Schoeller, H enry Lewis
Vlier, Benjamin
Scott, Calvin Luther
Wadsworth, Hiram Warren
Seaman, William W.
Wagner, John George
Sewall, Spencer Kirby
Wakeley, William Henry
Shelhamer, Clarence Albert
Washburn, Sherman
·weaver, George Rasmas
Short, James Curtis
Sisson, John Francis
Webster, Edwin Casey
Spencer, Alvah Jacob
Webster, Thomas Henry
Smith, Willis Hayes
Week, Uharles Erastus
Smith, William Tecumseh Sherman W erden, Stephens Collins
Smiley, Sumner Francis
Welsh, Joseph
Snudden, William Henry
Weston, George Edward
Stanley, Charles Newton
White, Edwin Matelan<l
Starrett, Robert Henry
White, James Strothard
Steadman, Levergn John
Williams, Robert Adrfa.n
Steiff, Jacob
Williams, Romayne, P. M.
Stephens, Arthur Joseph
Wilson, John Irwin
Stevens, Charles Warren
Windham, William Spencer
Stevens, Kingsley Noble
Wisehart, Richmond
Stone, Leonard Allison
Wood, Almon
Sutliff, Virgil Renaldo
Wood, Isaac Newton
Taylor, Lewis Richard, P. M.
Wood, William Henry
Taylor, Richard, P. M.
Wright, George Elmer
Taylor, William D.
Wright, Walter Savage
Thomas, Cyrus Backus
Yearian, Carl Hayes
Thomson, Henry Martin
Young, Frank Nathan
-300.

ROSTER.

339

ANCHOR LODGE, No. 273.

..

Compton, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Elmer Ellsworth Elliott, Master,
James Monroe Mayo, Senior Deacon,
Clarence A. Dickinson, Sen. Warden, .................... Junior Deacon,
John Bryant Norton, Jun. Warden, George Wash. Bryson, Marshal,
Arthur L. Holcombe, Treasurer,
William Riley Mayo, Steward,
Wm. Seymour Davis, Secretary,
Ralph Eugene Kinkaid, Steward,
Harry Lewis, Chaplain,
Edward Wm. Lewis, Tyler.

• ••

MEMBERS:
Amlin, John L.
Jacobs, John Franklin
Atchison, Joseph Andrew
Kratzer, Benjamin Richard
Briggs, Robert Redman
Lewis, Edward William
Bryson, George Wash., P. M.
Lewis, Harry
Burritt, Charles Lewis
Lord, Alex. Napoleon
Camp, Arthur James
Mayo, Harmon Jeff, P. M.
Catey, George Washington
Mayo, James Monroe
Conklin, John Raymond
Mayo, William Riley
Cox, Robert Lee
Martin, Peter P.
Crum, Dwight Mark, P. M. ·
McComas, Asbury
Davis, William Seymour
Mercer, Preston Reese, P. M.
Decker, John
Miller, Alvin Wash.
Dickison, Clarence Anson
Miller, Erwin
Dimler, Joseph Henry
Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Duke, James M.
Moore, Elmer Ellsworth
Elliott, Elmer Ellsworth
Morton, John Jay, P. M.
Epperson, John William
Norton, John Bryant
.Epperson, Harry Valentine
Proctor, James Buchanan
Frew, Will L.
Raycraft, George Stanley, P. M.
Gaines, William Albert
Rennolds, Isaac Johnson, P. M.
Gunby, Edward Smith
Shaffer, John
Hanselman, John Wesley, P. M.
Shamrak, William
Harshman, Nelson Sylvester
Stahl, William
Haynes, Emmett Sylvester
Welton, Arthur Foote
Heath, Clinton
Williams, Justus Herbert
Holcombe, Arthur Lowell
Wood, Christian Kine
Imbler, Walter Webster
Zadock, Gustave Adolph
Iftiger, Hugo Julius
-55.

ROSTER.

341

ROSTER.

340

MEMBERS:

ARROYO LODGE, No. 274,,

."

Arroyo Grande, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moo.n.
OFFICERS :
Allan L. Bickell, Senior Deacon, .
John Edgar Parish, Junior Deaco~, •
John Ralph Reinike, Marspal,
·
Clare Shipman Noble, Steward,
George Pitt Ide, Steward,
·
Howard M. Linn, Tyler.

John Nicholas Miller, Master,
George Grieb, Senior Warden,
Arthur W. Hawkins, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Arthur Conrad, Treasurer,
John William Gilliam, Secretary,
Thomas Keown, Chaplain,
Alexander, Siegfried
Aron, Isidor
Balaam, Arthur George
Ball, Jessie Coinbs
Banks, Elwin James
Beckett, John Archer
Beckett, Lemuel James
Bickell, Allan Leslie
Brieger, Adolph
Brown, Adam, P. M.
Byers, Randolph
Clark, Charles Sammis
Cook, William Thomas, P. M,
Conrad, William Arthur
Dower, William Henry
English, Frank A.
Fink, Charles
Gale, DeWitt Clinton
Gilliam, John William
Grieb, George
Guild, Henry 'Grant
Hawkins, Arthur Wheelock

..

MEMBERS:
Ide, Bela Clinton, P. M.
Ide, George Pitt, P . M.
Keown, Thomas H.
Kinney, John Seth
Linn, Howard M.
Miller, John Nicholas, P. M.
Nicholson, John R'.
Noble, Clare Shipman
Parish, John Edgar
Phillips,. Adolph
Phillips, 'samuel Sampson
Phoenix, Fred J am~s
Poole, James
Poole, William Clark
Reinike, John Ralph
Schwob., John C.
Short, Benjamin English
Silva, William
Smith, William John
Waterman, William Fred
Werner, John William
Whittemore, Amos C., P. M. -44.

Bard, Levi
Booth, James Godfrey
Broughton, James Richard
Baker, Sanford Chase
Benson, Richard Gray
Bentley, Richard Harrison
Be!ltley; Isom Hilliard
Bratten, Thomas Wilson
Barton, Henry Clay
Barnett, Derby H.
Bledsoe, Alfr,ed Leroy
Crabtree, Ebenezer Foster
Coley, John Ambrose
Dorsey, Thomas Beale
Endicott, Elmer M.
Gilbert, Amos Lawrence
Gilbert, Clarence Irving
Haslacher, Jacob, P. ·M.
Hubble, John
Heiskell, Jefferson Davis
Hennemuth, John Louis
Hall, William Wheeler
Hall, William· Solon
Hess, George Washington
Johns, Thomas William
Kahn, Joseph H.

Le Clerk, Sebastine Theo.
Leitch, Arthur Lee
Laughlin, Francis Williams
Lee, Dorsey Edgar
Martin, Frederick James
Mann, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Meyer, Frederick Henry
Meyer, Sidney George
Mulroy, John Henry
Owen, John Hamilton
Prouty, Joel Leople
Pfarr, George Nichols
Rickart, David, P. M.
Richardson, Thomas
Stearns, Francis
Schackford, Henry Harrison
Thompson, James Goodwin
Tulloch, Earl Patterso11
Warner, Joseph, P. M.
Warfield, Dennis Burdett, P. M.
·Wigley, George Washington
Wigley, Jefferson
Wood, Alonzo Thomas
Wood, William Henry
Wood, Charles Calvin, P. M,
Weaver, Henry Edward
--52.

SELMA LODGE, No. 277.
Selma, Fresno County.

,.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.
Oakdale, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon. ·
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

Parris Allen, Master,
Ernest M. Kimberlin, Sen. Deacon,
Mark Alvin Sawrie; Senior Warden, Wm. Robert Stammers, Jr., Jun. D.,
Chester Dusy, Junior Warden,
James William Mitchell, Marshal,
David S. Snodgrass, Treasurer,
Fred Drew, Steward,
John L. Mitchell, Secretary,
Isaac M. Townsend, Steward,
Flavius J. Wright, Tyler.

342

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Pugh, James V erco~
Pugh, John S.
Albrecht, Albert
Pugh, Perry Allen
Allen, Parris
Allen, George William
Pugh, Aaron Uriah
Barnett, William
Palmer, Roy Henry
Bixter, Adam
Paulson, Edward
Powell, John Day ·
Blackman, Charles Monroe
Borchers, Hermann Henry
Palen, Bino Carlisle
Berry, Clarence
Pallidini, Benjamin Ronaldo
Burton, Cornelius N.
Redenbough, Milton
Branson, Oscar Edward
Rosenberger, Guy Walker
Brown, David E.
Robinson, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Byrne, Joseph B.
Ricketts, Walter S.
Compton, Warren
Rose, James Edwin
Cutler, Herbert Nelson
Sargeant, Charles Black
Cutler, William Cheney
Sawrie, Mark Alvin
Cohn, Samuel
Scott, George Milton
Davies, John Porter
Shafer, William Herbert
Drew, George Freeman
Shannon, William Russell
Drew, Fred
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Dusy, Chester
Smith, Albert Anderson
Edgar, William Taylor
Smith, James Colli11.s
Elliott, Charles Thomas
Smith, George Spencer
Esterbrook, Joseph Sutcliffe
Stammers, William Robert
Garrett, Levi
Stammers, William Robert
Gilbert, Julius Langdon, P. M.
Snodgrass, David S., P. M.
Harlan, Newell
Stroud, John Allen
Hinkson, Richard Summers, P. M. Stearns, Orville W.
Hoover, Preston P.
Schuwandt, Charles
Howell, Lawson Joel
Steinwand, Oscar William
Johnson, Ingoall Andrew
Skaggs, James A.
Kilburn, Charles Menzo
Townsend,'Isaac M.
Kimberlin, Ernest Marion
Vincent, Manuel, P. M.
Kaarsburg, Henry Mauritz Hogan
Wagner, James Dani.el, P. M.
Leon, George Allen
Wagner, James Holliday, P. M.
Lewald, Samuel
Wootan, John Thomas
Loomis, Asa Bird
Wood, Charles Robert, P. M.
Lewis, Edward Adolph
Wright, Flavius Joseph
Messersmith, Joseph
Wright, Jacob Henry
Mitchell, John Lair, P. M.
Wasgatt, Cornelius
Mitchell, James William, P. M.
Wiley, John L.
Maxwell, Eugene Taylor
Weseman, George
Peters, Henry Frank
Yeargin, John
Pugh, Edward M.
Yost, William Antone
-87.

. ::!43

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 278.
Los Angeles, Los Ange.l es County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

•

Ernest Henry Greppin, Master,
Herbert L. Cornish, Senior Warden,
Edward B. Spencer, Jun. Warden,
Robert Wankowski, Treasurer,
Warren Edward Rowley, Secretary,
J. S. V. DeC. Thompson, Chaplain,

Adelbert Starr Abbott, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Hartley Small, Jun. Deacon,
Jas. Gustave Scarborough, Marshal,
Earl Walter Mueller, Steward,
Justus William .Rice, Steward,
Milton Cephas Fordham, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

.....

t

•

Abbott, Adelbert Starr
Abbott, Frederick William
Adams, Hugh White, Jr.
Ainsworth, Frank Kenley
Alexander, Harrison Babcock
Alfonso, Herbert Dennis
Allen, ·Charles Carroll, P. M.
Allen, Dane Lorenzo
Alles, Fred Lind, P. M.
Anderson, Charles Sherman, P. M.
Anderson, Horace Philip
Arend, William Frank
Armstrong, George
Arnold, Jesse Houston
Arnold, William Ralph
Ashton, Charles
Aufdemkamp, Henry
Austin, Amos Mack
Austin, John Comeby Wilson
Bacon, Robert Harold
Bagley, Arthur Eugene
Bailie, Samuel Girvin
Baird, William Smillie
Baker, Arthur Eaton
Baker, Charles Minton
Baker, Fred Linnel
Baldwin, Cornelius Vanoy
Baldwin, ·George Everett
Barfoot, Robert Alex. William
Barnard, Frank Steele
Barnes, Frank Amos ·
Barnes, Harvey Stevens
Barnes, James Whitnev

Barnwell, Walter Galt
Bartholowsky, Johannes
Barton, Thomas William
Beck, Sainuel James
Belcher, Henry Arthur
Benz, William
Berg, Christian Gottlieb
Berger, Andrew S.
Hessing, Theo.
Bicknell, Frederick Thompson
Biehl, Nicholas
Bilicke, Albert Clay
Billington, Theophilus
Blades, Paul Harcourt
Blaisdell, Mylon John
Bleecker, Henry Lloyd
Bloeser, John Condit
Bonfilio, Nicholas
Boone, Andrew Jackson
Boone, Blair Ford
Booth, Franklin
Booth, Willis Holyoake
Bosler, Thompson, P. M.
Boucher, Joseph
Bowen, John Wesley
Bowker, Walter King
Boyle, James Luke
Boynton, Fred Wesley
Bradbeer, James Hudson
Bradish, Avery Jackson
Braly, Arthur Hughes
Braly, Harold Hyde
Braly, John Hyde

344

Brauer, Adolph Karl
Brent, Edward James
Bridges, Herbert Frank
Brink, John Edward
Brock, George Alex.
Brode, Alex. Charles
Brode, Walter Charles
Bronson, Roy DeWitt
. Brookman, Arthur, P. M.
Brown, Fred ,Winfield·
Brown, Henry Lee
Brown, Walter Elbridge
Bryant, Norman Lorenzo
Bryson, Charles William
Bryson, Frank
Bullard, Frank Dearborn
Bullis, William Shufelt
Bumiller, Arthur William
Bundrem, Howard Graham
Bunnell, Charles Eugene Dewey
Burgwald, Hugo Mathias
Burnett, Frank Wilbur
Burns, John ·W.
Butler, Sidney Aleut
Butler, Sidney Tortelus
Cadwalader, George Downing
Uake, George Myers
Callahan, Walter
Campbell, Charles
Campbell, Edward Franklin
Campbell, John Mis
Cannon, John Stevens
Carr, Joseph Elmer
Case,' Charles Hempstead
Case, Alonzo Beecher
Casterline, William Mr.Guffy
Cates, Horace Getchell
Catey, Stacey Francis
"Chaffey, Andrew McCord
Chandler, Harry
Chappelear, Henry Stewart
Chase, Lucius Kurtz
Christopher, John Francis
Church, Benjamin Franklin
Clark, Oliver Perry
Clark, William Alton

ROSTER.
Clarke, Frank Brainerd, Jr.
Cleaver, William •
Cogswell, William Gardner
Cole, E.l mer Ellsworth
Cole, Henry Edmond
Coleman, Albert Loring
Coleman, Robert William
Colton, George Frederic
Conant, George Frederick
Conner, Edward Hurlbut
Conner, Luther Lucien
Connon, John Alex.
Conrey, Nathaniel Parrish
Coomb'er, Henry William
Cooper, Frank J., P. M.
Copp, Andrew James, Jr.
Cornish, Herbert Lemuel
Cox, Emit J.
Crabill, Simeon Wolford
Crandall, Shannon
Culver, Alex. Stephens
Cunningham, Frank R.
Cunningham, John Calvin
Dahl, Christian James
Dake, George Daniel
Darling, Charles Edward
Davids, Mark Abraham
f>avis, Harvey
Davisson, John Henry
Day, James Anderson
Day, Robert Verne
Dearth, Leonard
Dennis, Albert Lee
Denton, Eugene Elias
Dewey, James Henry
Dickson, Clarence Bishop
Dillin, John
Dixon, Charles Clark
Dodge, Shailor Calver
Dorris, Charles Wesley
Dow, Herbert Gruby
Driscoll, Timothy
Drought, Robert
Duffie, John Jefferson
Duffin, Harry
Durgin, Walter Clements

ROSTER.

..

•• •

.,

Dupuy, James Robert, P. M.
Dutcher, Claude Elmer
Dyer, Trnsten Polk, P. M.
Eakins, Herbert Brown
Earle, Lucien
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Edwards, John William
Edwards, Leoland Cloise
Eichelberger, Harry Martin
Eikenbary, Sidney Joseph
·Eisenmayer, Walter Graeser
Ellis, Henry Bertrand
Elsom, Robert Wesley
Emery, Robert Dudley
Emmons, Elijah Alex.
Ennis, Charles Wesley
Esdor, William Henry
Eskey, Milton Newton
Everett, Newton Baldwin
Fairchild, John Anthony
Falvella, John
Farnsworth, Willis Cleveland
Ferbert, John C.
Fernald, Benjamin Walter
Ferris, Harvey Olmsted
Feuerborn, Edward Randolph
Field, Benjamin Franklin
Field, Daniel Webster
Finlayson, Frank Graham
Fiscus, Joseph
Fiscus, Marshall
Fiscus, Marshall Elsworth
Fisher, Donnell George
Fitch, George Atkins, P. M.
Ford, Lewis Eugene
Forrester, Edmund Arnold
Forrester, Frank Linnaeus
Forrester, Fred Warren
Fosdick, Archibald Morris
Foshay, James A., P. G. M.
Fox, Charles James, Jr.
Fox, Joseph Cliffe
Franklin, Edward Joseph
Fredericks, John Donovan
Freeby, Mordecai Paul
E'riedgen, Harry Raymond

Frost, Franklin Pierce
Fryman, Harmon Christian
:E_'uller, William Harrison
Fulton, ~rank
Gadden, Edward Tad
Getz, Henry Augustus
Geissler, Edward August
Gibson, Leo LaForest
Gibson,' Thomas
Gifford, Charles Levi
Gillespie, Mathew McGill
Gilmore, Edward Watson
Goehring, John George
Gordon, Christopher McMath
Gordon, Frank Henry
Graham, Edward Hewitt
Granicher, Oswald
Green, Luther Herbert
Greppin, Ernest Henry
Guy, Ivester Clark
Hagen, William
Hall, Cornelius Alfred
• Hamilton, Harley Erastus
Hamlin, Fred Hanniable
Hammell, Delbert Cool
Hammon, Percy Vernon
Hammond, Watts
Hammond, Wm. Tecumse~ Sher.
Hanna, Harry Rogers
Harlan, George, P. M.
Harris, Murray McCheyne
Harrison, George Wright
Harrison, William Henry
Hart, John Wicks
Haskell, Eugene Craddock
Haupt, Paul
Havemann, William
Hawes, Arthur Leland
Hayward, Henderson
Heber, James Earle
Heffner, Robert Armstrong
Heinemann, Bernard Henry
Heller, Charles Clinton
Hench, William Allison
Henderson, John Blanchard
Henderson, William Augustus

845

346
Henry, James Wheaton, P. M.
Hensley, Sylvester Peter
Herron, Fred Irwin
Herron, Rufus Hills
Hess, Orlando Boyd
Hewes, Jonathan Nichols
Hewitt, Roscoe Edwin, P. M.
Hicks, Walter Thomas
Hill, Randolph William
Hinchcliffe, Chas. Warren
Hines, Fred Amos, P. M.
Hirtz, Nathaniel Frederick
Hoffman, Marcus Irven
Hollingsworth, William Irving
Holman, Claude Stonum
Hornbeck, Charles, P. M.
Housh, William Harvey
Hovis, Harry Henderson
Hubbard, Ralph Beatty
Hubbard, William Lewis, P. M.
Humphreys, Charles· Harkness
Humphreys, William Morgan
Hutchinson, Edwin Herbert
Hyatt, Henry Lamb
J ackins, Harry
Jacobsen, Christian Frederick
Jeffries, Richard Hoy
Jeffries, William Parrish, P. M.
Jenkins, John Joseph
Johannsen, Franklin George
Johnson, Edward Purcell, Jr.
Johnson, Frank Alexander
Johnson, Frederick Orson
Johnston, John Milton
Johnston, Noble Ellis
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Everett Gaylord
Jones, Frank Massie
Jones, Henry Spencer
Jones, John Taylor
Jones, Mark Gordon
Jones, Mattison Boyd
Jones, Richard Girard
Jones, Robert Freeman
Kardell, Benjamin Franklin
Kay, Harry Bailey

•

ROSTER.
Keller, Will Edward
Kelley, Richard• Wash.
Kelly, Francis Asbury
Kenny, Robert Wolfenden
Keohane, John William
Kinney, Arthur Wilson
Kirkland, Derwentwater
Kitchen, George Washington
Kitchin, Philip
Kohlmeier, Benjamin
Koster, Eugene Will
Koyer, Arthur Sheppard
Kramer, Henry Jacob
Kubach, Christian John
Kunow, Charles August
Kyte, George Irwin, P. M.
Lammert, Fred William
Lampshire, John Oxnam
Langdon, Frederick Sylvester
Laughlin, Herbert Sisson
Laughlin, Homer, Jr.
Laux, Carl
Lawless, William Joseph
Laws, William Henry
Lebus, Prentice
Lee, Bradner Wells
Lee, Fred Leonard
Lehman, Charles Joseph
Lerrigo, George
Lindley, Hervey, P. M.
Lindley, Samuel Kingston
Lindley, Walter .
Loe.ke, Charles Edwin
Logan, !Jeorge Burket
l,ong, Charles H.
Long, James William, P. M.
Lovett, William Watson, P. M.
Lnekel, Louis
Lynch, Ira Owen
Lyndall, Charles Penny
'MacDonald, Jesse Juan
Mackay, George Grant
M:.cnab, Arthur Camphe:;
Macready, Benjamin
Maeder, William Richard
Malke, Edward James

•

• 4

ROSTER.
Malone, John
Manuel, Franklin F.
Marden,· Henry William
Marden, Leo Wallace
Marden, Reo Burnham
Markham, Monroe
Marsh, Robert
Mart, James Jackson
Martin, Austin Oliver
Mason, Oliver Arland
Mathews, John Robert
Mathuss, Zack Duncan
Matson, Wilfred Hosford, Jr.
Matthews, Winfield Scott
McArthur,- William Taylor
McClurkin, William John
McCollough, Alex. Millard F.
McComas, Frederick Bernard
McCoy, Albert Barnes
McCoy, David Allen
McCrea, Thomas Pleasants
McCullough, John B.
Mccutcheon, Archie Boggs
McEwen, Charles Roland
Mcinto.sh, William P.
McKee, Milton
McLean, Daniel Alexander
McMillan, Basil James
McNeely, James Thomas
Mead, Willis Howard
Medlar, John Abraham
Mercereau, John D.
Merrill, Joseph Lane
Merryweather, Charles
Merwin, Andr~w Homer
MeMsmore, Frank Hiram
Middleton, Ralph Dodsworth
Miles, Charles Sweeting
Miles, Nelson Appleton
Millard, Jay Bird
Miller, Charles Francis
Miller, Frank Lee
Miller, Homer Ketler
Miller, Nicholas N.
Mitchell, George
Mitchell, Robert

347

Morgan, Franklin Llewellyn
Monlux, John B.
Montgomery, Isaac Shelby, P. M.
Mott, Albert Clark
Moulton, Horatio Frank
Moyse, John Ira
Mueller, Earl Walter
Mueller, Oscar Charles
Murphy, William Warren, P. M.
Murray, Alexander Wilson
Myrick, Nathaniel Willis
Nagel, George Eclward
Nauerth, Jacob
Nelson, N elus Paul
Neubauer, Frank
Newell, Henry Temple
Newman, Emil
Newton, Edward Payson
Noble, George Oscar
Nourse, Charles Oren
0 'Donnell, Thomas Arthur
Off, John William Arnold
O'Neil, Albert Sidney
0 'Reilly, Thomas William
Orme, Henty Sayre, P. G. M.
Osborn, John
Osborne, Henry Zenas, P. M.
Owen, Frank Dale
Owens, Madison Townsend, P. M.
Pahl, Peter Christian Heinrich
Parson, Loxley Rhees
Parsons, Arthur Mervil
Pascoe, Thomas
Patterson, Wilson Campbell
Paulding, James Francis
Pauly, Edward Stanley
Pauly, Frederick Nye, P. M.
Peairs, Howard Allen
Pearson, Harry E_rnest
Pease, Sherman
Peasley, Andrew
Peck, Daniel Gager
Pendell, Charles Elisha
Percy, Harry Lord
Pfaffinger, Frank Xavier
Phelps, John Wilson

348

ROSTER. ·

Phillips, Lee Andrew
Schmidt, Edward
Phillips, William
Schneider, Georte Henry
Piedmont, Louis
Schoder, Howard Joseph
Pierce, Darwin Willson
Schoder, Joseph .
Pierce, Edward Timothy
Scott, Charles Otis, P. M.
Plummer, Amos Weston
Scott, Henry
Preston, William Holyoke
Scriver, Robert McDo~ald
Price, Arthur Blake
Seaman, William Washing~on, P. M.
Prince, Frederick William
Seeber, Cornelius Wright
Prince, George Henry
Seeley, James Wesley
Putnam, Charles Edward
Shannon, William Alexander
Putnam, Fred Barnes
Sharpe, John
Rapp, William
Shaw, Hartley
Raze, Arthur Eldridge
Shaw, Lucien
Read, William Charles
Sherer, Edward T.
Ready, Russell Wilbert
Sherer, Henry Emanuel
Rebard, Eugene Mays
Sherman, Moses Hazeltine
Recfor, Robert Lee
Sherwood, William Franklin
Reed, Willis Johnson
Shives, Alexander
Reese, John Wesley
· Simms, John Harker
Reid, James Arthur
Sinsabaugh, Simpson McC.
Rice, Justus William
Skilling, Chauncey Fitch
Rice, Robert Lincoln
Skinner, Alden Webster
Richardson, Joseph
Small, ]_'rank Hartley
Richardson, William Weise
Smart, George Joseph
Roberts, William Chalmer
Smith, Charles A.
Robertson, Ernest
Smith, Conrad
Robinson, Ray D.
Smith, Cornelius Emery
Rogers, Albert Clark
Smith, Fred Maltby
Rommel, Edward David
Smith, Henry Ryerson, P. M.
Ross, Frederick William
Smith, Horace Osbun
. Rowley, Edwin Silas
Smith, Norman Eugene
Rowley, Warren Edward, P. M.
Smurr, John Randolph
Royse, Jeremy
Snyder, Meredith Pinxton
Rozell, David Righfmire
Somarindyck, George
Ruddy, George Drake
SI!aulding, Frank Leverett
Rule, Ferdinand Kenneth
Spence, William Glenn
Russell, Howard Marvin
Spencer, Edward Byrc;m
Sale, Howard Malcolm
Spinks, Andrew Mosley
Sargent, Edwin William
Spinks, Mosley Enoch
Savage, Stephen Decatur
Spinks, Wallace Humphrey
Scarborough, James Gustave
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Scarborough, William Byron, P. M. Spruance, Lewis J. Clauson
Schaefer, Henry
Squire, Arthur Mosely
Schaffer, Jacob, Jr.
Stagg, Edward Houts
Behave, Joseph
Stanton, Joseph Leighton

•

..

ROSTER.

•

~'

,

349

Starkweather, Charles Henry
Walker, Julius Randolph
Starr, Joseph Lee
Walker, Sa,muel Millard
Starr, Stanley S.
Walton, Charles Strong
Stephens, William
Wankowiiki, Robert
Stephens, William Dennison
Warden, Charles Dusten
Stetson, Albert L.
Watson, George Samuel
Stevens, Benjamin Francis
Webber, Cbarles Sumner
Stevens, Roy
Webster, Stephen Merritt
Stewart, Victor Baldwin
Weid, Otto Johannes Munk
Strasburg, Edward
Weir, Charles
Talmage, James Clark
Weller, Dana Reid, P. M.
Tars, Nathan Winship
Wells, Guilford Wiley
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steele
Wetterauer, Andrew Peter J.
Taylor, Horace Noble
Whaley, Francis John
Teed, Freeman Golding, P. M.
Wheeler, Edgar True
Thomson, John Scott Vance DeC. Wheeler, Horace Marcellus
Thomson, Robert Mossman
White, Charles Henry
Thompson, Chester Weaver
White, John Edward
Thompson, Frederick William
Whitbon, Levi Henry
Thompson, Omer Cones
Whi~tier, Mericos Hector
Wigmore, Francis Marion
Thorpe, Lewis Sanborn
Tomeney, Peter Patrick
Wigmore, George Herbert
Treen, Rupert de George
Wigmore, John
Tresslar, Sidney Pinney, P. M.
Willard, Charles Dwight
Trobeck, John August
Williams, Albert Scudamore
Trueworthy, John Wesley
Williams, George
Truitt, Charles Leslie
Willman, Chas. Gustav.e
Truitt, William Lowry
Wilton, George Robert
Upright, Oscar
Wing, Horace Benjamin
Winston, James Wallace
Urmston, John Keck
Wood, Francis Gideon
Valentine, William Lut'as
Woodward, William John
Van Brunt, William
Van Doren, John Suydam
Wuerker, Otto Leon
VanNorman, Edgar V ernon
Yarnell, Caleb Amos
' Yates, James Pagden
Vaughn, John William
Young, Jacob Clark
Vieira, George Joseph
Young, John William
Von Homeyer, Albert
Zaiser, Lewis G.
Waddington, William
Zaiser, Oscar Henry
Wade, Reuben Alex. Slavin
Wadhams, William .Jesse
Zuch~lli, John B.
-607
Walke1, Hugh Kelso

350

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

HANFORD LODGE, No. 279.
Hanford, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Melvin Weems, Mast.er,
S. M. Rosenberger, Sen. D.eacon,
Delmas Hood Latimer, Sen. Ward., H. Vallejo Brenton, Jun. Deacon,
S. Whitson Hall, Jun. Warden,
James Curtis Ensign, Marshal,
S. Bright Hicks, Treasurer,
John Ewell Hall, Steward,
Adolph G. Dollenmayer, SecrEtary, Wm. Francis Beenstein, Steward,
Henry Arthur Traut, Chaplain,
Henry E·lward Reuck, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ayers, Amos Melzar, P. M.
. Crowell, Chester Charles
Ayers, Andrew Mansfield
Crowell, Leo Calvin
Barber, George Wilson
Cross, Charles Marion
Barton, Herman Dany
Cunningham, Francis, P . M.
Beinstein, William Francis
Dodds, William H.
Biddle, Samuel Edward, Jr.
Dillon, Thomas Fuller
Bingham, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Dollenmayer, A. Gustav, P. M.
Booker, Sanford
Dopk.ins, Joseph Henry
Boudreau, Yung Hubert
Downing, Robert Jesse
Boulware, Alex. Stockton
Dunham, Lewis C.
Brenton, Harry Vallejo
Ellis, Richard Voris
Brennon, John Abram
Ellis, Bayard Boyd
Brown, Charles Rose
Ensign, James Curtis, P. M.
Brown, Harry Pfister
Ensign, Henry Wilson, P. M.
Brown, William Herbert
Farnsworth, Charles Clark, Jr.
Bulloch, James 1;..indon
Furby, Charles Edwin
Butler, Rudolph Rey
Furby, John Charles
Butler, Chester Orville
Goodrich, George Edwin
Buclinger, Philip Leidy
Gurnee, Bruster Smith
Camp, William Henry, P. M.
Hall, George Arthur, P . M.
Charles, William Bryant
Hall, John Ewell
Chastine, Charles Edward
Hall, Samuel Whitson
Chittenden, Lyman Sylvester
Hall, James Leroy
Chrisman, Archibald Yell
Hammond, Arthur F.
Clary, Alvin -R ay
Heathcote, Rennie James
Clow, Ora T.
Hendricks, Henry Thomas
Clow, Burton Rodrick
Herrod, John
Cooper, Calvin Savage
Eight, Frank Robert, P. M.
Cooper, Silas Halsey
Hicks, Sfrphen Bright
Cosper, Elias Truman
Hickman, Frank
Crigler, John Christopher
Hickman, James Oscar
Crowell, Abner Buel
Jloblcr, Charles James
Crowell, Letus Marcissus
Hobson, Rufus Asber~'

•

..

l

Hochstrasser, Rudolph
Hord, Robert Thomas
Howard, ·William Harrison
Howland, Clarence Se1.1.rs
Hoyt, Homer James
Isaac, Frederick Neville
Johns, Zachariah David
King, Arthur Dale
King, Edgar B.
Kuney, Harry Albert
Lacey, Orra Mell
Lane, Alpheus Wilbour
Latimer, Delmar Hood
Lee, William Tomas
Lens, Lodewyk Clement
Lewis, Benjamin Franc.is
Long, Robert Adam
Lovelace, Thomas James, P. M.
McCord, William P.
McCord, James W.
McQuiddy, Thoe. Jefferson, P. M.
Mills, Richard Francis
Mullen, Samuel Surlee
Musgrave, Robert Wm., P. M.
Nelson, Harold Mann
Newman, Leo. Disraeli
Newport, Fred Tate
Noel, Henry Hamlyn
Page, Edward Joseph
Payton, John Welby, P. M.
Pickerill, Ernest Fred
Price, Alberto Bell, P. M.
Ptice, Albert Ruskin
Rafailovich, Nicklas M.
Ramsey, John Wilson

351

Raney, Arthur Leon
·Raney, Sheldon Johnstone
Rea, John
Rehoefer, Samuel
Reuck, Henry Edward
Rhoads, John William
Ritchie, Isaac Andrew
Robertson, James Shaw
Ross, Fred Darwin
Ross, John Patchen
Rosenberger, Schuyler Mont.
Sanborn, Walter Andrew
Schueler, Henry John
Sensabaugh, John Samuel
Sharp, Craigie
Sharp, Benjamin V.
Sherzer, Simeon Newman
Slight, George
Smith, Judd
Steele, Francis John
Sullivan, John Longwell, P. M.
Tandrow, James Andrew
Taylor, Julius Calisto
Tiffany, Charles Henry
Thompson, Samuel Alexander
Traut, Henry Arthur, P . M.
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglas
Walp, James Lincoln Duff
Webster, Cassius Monroe
Weems, George Melvin
White, Royal George
Wilkinson, James Price
Young, Edmund Ellsworth, P. M.
Young, John Wesley

MADERA LODGE. No.

-135
280.

Madera, Madera County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Bryan High, Master,
George Brown, Senior Deacon,
Joseph A. Secara, Sen. Warden,
J . Royal Richardson, Jun. Deacon,
George Ford Elridge, Jun. Warden, John Marshall Jones, Marshal,
Return Roberts, Treasurer,
Frank P. Roberts, Steward,
George Adelbert Clark, Secretary, Pulaski Clark Eastin, Steward,
Donald Cameron McKenzie, Tyler.

352

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Luttrell, George McClure
Anderson, Henry Clay
Maze, William Camel
Armstrong, Charles Duner
Mccardle, Edwin Mace
Arondall, Ellsworth
McComb, John
Badger, Charles Taintor
McDonald, Archibald
Barker, Delbert Ornello
McKee, John
Barnett, John Robert
McKenzie, Donald Cameron
Bennett, John
Newman, Joseph Emory
Brown, George, P. M.
Owens, Samuel Gasiway
Brown, Pearl Alvey
Parsons, George Gorton
Brown, William A., P. M.
Petty, Charles M.
Byars, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Radliff, Charles DeWitt
Clark, George Edelbert
Ramsey, Will Whitten
Cochrum, Spirling Young
Reid, Eugene Homer
Cox, Elmer Henry
Richardson, John Royal
Cox, Wilbur Henry
Roberts, Return
Curran, James
Roberts, John Griffith
Daulton, John Francis
Roberts, Frank P.
Downey, William G.
Robison, Charles Byron
Dunlap, James M., P. M.
Roeder, Charles Henry
Duyer, John
Rosenthal, Nathan
Eastin, Pulaski Clark
Schmitz, John William
Elridge, George Ford
Secara, Joseph A.
Eubanks, Charles James
Skaggs, Samuel Lee
Gazzolo, Victor
Skaggs, Allan Alexander
Galbreath, John William
Sledge, Strudwick
Giles, Henry
Sledge, Levin Lane
Hall, Merrit Jordan
Speegle, Andrew Lee
Hargrove, Robert Lee, P. M.
Stahl, William
Hely, Levi St. John
Sweeney, Charles Darwin
High, John Bryan, P. M.
Thurman, William Bloodworth
Hughes, William Marshall
Tooker, Clinton Edward
Hughes, Kenneth Leach
Tozer, John Emmett
Hunter, Willie Wilkin Wood
Watkins, John Wellesley
James, Reuben Sterrett
Walde, Henry
Jones, John Marion
Jones, George Washington
Williams, William L.
Wilcox, Elmer Elsworth
Ladd, Monroe Jefferson
Wilson, William Bla;rney
Laiblin, Christian Henry
Wolters, Edward David
Lehr:field, Moses David
Wooten, George Drake
Leidig, Donald S.
Wooten, Elias Nelson
-82
Logan, Alexander

353

MOUNT SHASTA LODGE, No. 281.
Anderson, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles Henry Spann, Master,
Geo. Fred. Shepherd, Sen. Deacon,
John L. Kempton, Sen. Warden,
Arthur C. Burbank, Jun. Deacon,
John Calvin Kesler, Jun. Warden, John Dudley Dozier, Marshal,
John Franklin Bedfor-1, Treasurer, Joseph Parker Burbank, Steward,
Alvin Dozier, Secretary,
Theo. Pleisch, Steward,
Joseph Franklin Parish, Chaplain, James Alex. Robertson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Johnson, Harvey Petit
Anderson, William Somers
Kempton, John Lincoln, P. M.
Bainbridge, Clarence Edwin
Kesler, John" Calvin
Bedford, John Franklin
McNeill, William
Bedf~rd, James Franklin, P. M.
Munter, Carl, P. M.
Bedford, William Wesley
Pleisch, Theodore
Beecher, James Harvey
Parish, Joseph Franklin
Burbank, Joseph Parker
Reynolds, Lincoln C.
Burbank, Arthur Charles, P. M.
Robertson, James Alex.
Cassell, Ernest Vivian
Smith, Albert Ferdinand, P. M.
Dozier, Alvin, P. M.
Shepherd, George Frederick
Dozier, John Dudley, P. M.
Spann, Charles Henry
Dales, George Benson
Shanahan, Thadeus W. H., P. M.
Douglass, Torrence Samuel
Strange, Morris
Dunning, M. Lee
Stuck, Andrew Jackson
Goodman, Charles Hillor
Todd, William Hawley
Goodman, Timothy D.
Tabler, Guy Clairmont
Hainline, Charles Grant
Weacer, . William
Hawkins, Devine Zach., P. M.
Wilson, Gabriel Hunter
-38
Hawkins, George Edward

CALLAYOMI LODGE, No.

282.

Middletown; Lake County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of ·or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
0

George Arthur McKinley, Master, H. Clay Vandewater, Sen. Deacon,
Ole Kristian Holt, Sen. Warden,
Lon McKelly, Junior Deacon,
John Chas. Koopman, Jun. Ward.,
James Parrish, Marshal,
Joseph Lilburn Read, Treasurer,
Pliney Wilfred Reed, Steward,
John Bynum Preble, Secretary,
Paul Nelson, Steward,
Charles Henry Tully, 'l'yler.
23

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Parrish, James1 P. M.
Aby, Charles William
Preble, John Bynum
Bailey, Wellman Jenness, P. M.
Read, Joseph Lilbui;:n
Bruilhart, J ohri
Read, Thomas Albert, P. M.
Brookins, Minor Robert
Reed, Pliney Wilfred
Cheney, Alonzo H.
Ryder, Irwing Lamphrey
Deloney, Henry
Reinike, John
DeMartin John
Rocca, Andrew, P. M.
Daniels, James Edward
Robison, Perry Quint.·
Fruits, Arthur George
Reese, William Henry Clay
Holt, Ole Kristian
Sacry, George Arthur, P. M.
Henry, Charles Edwin
Schwartz, Earnest Walter, P. M.
Kemp, George Washington
Stoddard, Edward B.
Kelly, John Melvin
Silverthorn, Frank Edward
Koopman, John Charles
Tully, Charles Henry
Longley, Frank Beaty
Voluntine, John Chapman, P. M.
McKinley, George Arthu·r
Vandewater, Henry Clay
McKelly, Lon
-35
Nelson, Paul, P. M.

ROSTER.
Kimball, Augustus Brooks, P. M.
Kellogg, Frederick Roderick
Litterer, Louis Adolph
Matthiessen, Albert Henry
Mills, Warren Everett
Mullen, Orlando Alfred
Myer, James Wash.
McNeill, Joseph Bowyer
Noyes, Oliver Clarence
Nichols, Frank Jay
0 'Connell, Jerry
Palmer, Theodore Romayne
Pattee, Raymond Wilson
Pitman, Charles
Phelps, Hulcy
Pratt, Herbert Ely
Priest, Charles Hen~y
Patterson, Harry James

355

Reed, Frank Pierce
Riggs, William Mallory
Risdon, Herbert Thomas
Rouland, Neils Peter
Sawyer, Charles Henry
Seymour,. John
Smith, Samuel Watts
Stuart, Charles Harry
Stewart, Charles Rollin
Tingley, Charles Herbert
VanDeripfil, Chas. Chris., P. M.
Vaughan, Warren Briggs, P. M.
Ward, Martin Luther, P. M.
Williamson, Samuel King, P. M.
Yenawine, Geo. Lafayette, P. M.
Yeli.awine, Julian Oustin
Zeigler, William

-55

TYRIAN LOPGE, No. 284.
SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.

Dunnigan, Yolo County.

National City, San Diego County.

Stated Meetings, ~twday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next pre'ceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
. Baxter Kyle Adkisson, Sen. Deacon,
Warren B. · Vaughan, Master,
Hulcy Phelps, Jun. Deacon,
Charles H. Stuart, Sen. Warden,
Orlando A. Mullen, Jun. Warden, . Charles Pitman, Marshal,
Frank P. Reed, Treasurer,
Jerry 0 'Connell, Steward,
}'rank A. Kimball, Secretary,
Warren Everett Mills, Steward,
Herbert Arnold Jerauld, Chaplain, Neils P. Rouland, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adkisson, Baxter Kyle
Angelo, William Robert
Arnold, Arthur Mitcheltree
Atkins, Wellington B.
Bragg, Arthur Virgil
Copelan(}, ·Herman
Eggleston, William
Evans, Thomas J. ·
Fly, Edward Munroe
Fleming, John Alexander

Gooch, John Barton
Grandier, Frank
Gatis, Richard Edward
Hale, Richard L.
Hammack, Daniel M.
Henderson, Walter James, P. M.
Henderson, David
Ivers, John
Jerauld, Herbert Arnold
Kimball, Frank Augustus, P. M.

George W. Persons, Master,
Charles 0. Fish, Senior Deacon,
Walter Bernard, Senior Warden,
Wm. Franklin Smith, Jun. Deacon,
F. G. McCullough, Jun. Warden,
Thomas J. Mumma, Marshal,
Jasper N. Decker, Treasurer,
Samuel W. Barker, Steward,
Norris E. Hughes, Secretary,
Byron C. Hughes, Steward,
Walter Duncalf, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arens, Thomas · Ottci, P. M.
Bernard, Walter Allen
Barker, Samuel William
Betterton, Charles Albert
Copp, Charles Oscar
Cain, William Henry
Decker, Jasper Newton
Duncalf, Walter, P. M.
Fish, Charles Orlando, P. M.
Gay, Walter Leforest
Green, Germain
Higham, John

Hyman, George S.
Harphan, John Henry, P. M.
Hughes, Norris Edwin
Hughes, Byron Charles
Langenour, Philip Thomas, P. M.
Langenour, Henry Watkins
Lincoln, William James
Mast, Edward John Frederick
Mumma, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
McCullough, Frederick Frank
, Persons, George Washington
Rummelsburg, Alexander

ROSTER.

356

ROSTER.

Suggett, Buford Culwell
Suggett, Homer Marvin
Sellman, George Washington
Smith, William Franklin

Woodard, Edward Dl'lrgan
West, Herman Bradford
West, William Henry, -P. M.
Webb, Smith
-32

PASO ROBLES LODGE, No. 286.
Paso Robles, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next succeeding Full Moon .
. OFFICERS:
Geo. Wash. Hamilton, Master,
Myron Holly Brooks, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Geo. Wetzel, Sen. Warden,
Geo. Albert Shupp, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Samuel Eddy, Jun. Warden, Warren Clifford Bennett, Marshal,
David Speyer, Treasurer,
Henry L. Manderville, Steward,
Cliff 0. Bickell, Secretary,
Chas. Jas. Trussler, Steward,
Geo. Hill Bennett, Tyler.

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Miguel, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:.

Lawrence McCandless, Master,
Olof Braren, Senior Deacon,
J. G. Weidemann, Sen. Warden,
Henry W. Lynch, Junior Deacon,
Charles Forbes, Junior Warden,
William Pinkerton, Marshal,
Lorenzo D. Murphy, Treasurer,
Philip Green, Steward,
Dwight K. Noggle, Secretary,
James Forbes, Steward,
. John Thompson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Blair, Charles Henry
Boys, Henry Sanford
Cole, Oliver Port
Douglas, Gerald Noel, P. M.
Forbes, Charles
Forbes, William Dindas
Foulkner, Pitman Lee
Fowler, George William
Ganoung, Edwin
Green, Philip
Hennage, William Homar
Knight~, Frederick
Linderholm, Henry
McConnell, Gibson
McFaddin, Hadin V.
McFaddin, Higgins
McCandless, Lawrence
MeGowan, Edward Allen

357

McQuown, Henry Monroe
Murphy, Lorenzo Dowell, P. M.
Noggle, Dwight Keefer
Pinkerton, William
Remington, Henry Charles
Rauscheit, Henry George
Richardson, John
Seaman, John Detliff, P. M.
Speegle, Andrew Jaekson
Stanley, William Winfield
Taylor, Edwin
Thompson, John
Thompson, John William
Victors, Henry
Webster, John Calvin
Williams, William Alfred
Wright, David Green
Weideman, J . G.
-36

...

..

MEMBERS:
Abernethy, Edward
Jack, Albert .LeForrest
Anthony, James Buchanan
Kelshaw, John
Armstrong, Richard Stephen
Ladner, Edwin
Barber, Richard
McDaniel, Lewis
Booth, Fred George
Monroe, John Reed
Booth, Frank Johnson
Manderville, Henry Lewis
Beggs, William Crow
Muchenstrom, Joseph Isidore
Bennett, Warren Clifford, P. M.
Mcintire, Ernest B.
Bennett, Edwin Montgomery
Nelson, Andrew
Brewer, Lyman
Neel, James Oliver
Bickell, Cliff Ormond
Neal, James W.
Brooks, Myron Holly, P. M.
0 'Leary, Michael
Bennett, George Hill
Patriquin, Alex. George
Cohen, Lewis
Pierce, Benjamin Bowlin
Cassin, Richard Joseph
Schroeder, Arthur Van Camp
Elliott, Vandiver Reid
Seideman, Conrad
Eppinger, Herman
Sherman, Thaddeus, P. M.
Eddy, Joseph White
Shackelford, Richard Matthew
Eddy, William Samuel
Speyer, David
Frost, Frank Daniel, P. M.
Steele, Osman N.
Frost, Edward Parker
Steinbeck, Charles Minor
Glass, James Hargis, P. M.
Shupp, George Albert
Grist, Michael
Tidrow, Joseph
Grant, Adam Luc~s
Trussler, Charles James, P. M.
Griswold, Eugene Carlton
True, Hanson William
Howard, Walter Hugh
Williams, Samuel Anthony
Hamilton, George Washington
Webster, Alexander
Hayes, Samuel Wesley
Waterbury, James Edwin
Horton, Alvin
Weyer, Robert C.
Iverson, Josias
Wetzel, Frank George
Iverson, Christian Iverson
-61

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

358

WINNEDUMAH LODGE, No. 287.

·MAXWELL LODGE, No. 288. ·

Bishop, Inyo County.

Maxwell, Colusa County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Mark Quayle Watterson, Master,
Geo. Alex. Clarke, Sen. Warden,
Albert Lloyd Wells, Jun. Warden,
Asher Cohn, Treasurer,
Will Arthur Chalfant, Secretary,
Wm. Daniel Joughin, Chaplain,

F. Mortimer Hess, Sen. Deacon,
Alex. F. Kilpatrick, Junior Deacon,
Albert Oscar Collins, Marshal,
John Simpson McQueen, Steward,
Lazare, Weill, Steward,
Harvey Adams, Tyler.

Geo. Wash. Desrosier, Master,
Francis M. Baker, Sen. Warden,
Jae. Warren Danley, Jun. Warden,
Geo. Wash. Hastings, Treasurer,
Arthur John Fouch, Secretary,
James Wells Marshall, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Adams, Harvey
Albright, George Langton
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Barton, Hiram Arthur
Bertrand, Oliver
Butler, Frank
Cape, Henry Mitchell
Chalfant, Will Arthur
Clarke, George Alexander
Clarke, John
Cohn, Asher
Collins, Albert Oscar, P. M.
Collins, George
Collins, John Leonidas
Doyl!l, Guy P., P. M.
Dunlap, John Elijah
Dunn, William James
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Evans, ·Thomas William
Freeman, Alexander Cassidy
Gunter, Hannibal Newton
Hall, Leicester Campbell
Hammett, William Atwood
He~s, Frederick Mortimer
Jones, James
Jones, John Edward
J oughin, William Daniel
Kilpatrick, Alexander Franklin
Kilpatrick, Alexander Sanderson

359

Geo. Henry Abel, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Henry Cross, Junior Deacon,
John D. S. Taylor, Marshal,
Christopher C. Felts, Steward,
Hiram S. Cook, Steward,
George Hineline, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

Larson, Owen W.
Leicham, Charles George
Longley, George
Love, Robert
McDonald, Allan Ray
McDonald, William, P. M.
McGee, John Simpson
McMurry, Samuel Goforth
McNamara, Harry
McQueen, John Simpson
Mitchell, William Hart
Newlan, Samuel Jefferson
Olds, David
Richel, Charles Arthur
Shaw, Frank
Shaw, Harry
Shirley, Arthur Ashton
Todd, John Wagner
Vandercook, Albert Emerson
Vasey, Matthias Kempley
Vermilyea, Samuel E.
Wardwell, Ralph Watts
Watterson, Mark Quayle
Watterson, Wilfred Wm., P. M.
Watterson William
Weill, Lazare
Wells, Albert Lloyd
Wildassin, Charles Fell

--57

•

Abel, George Henry
Baker, Francis Marion
Braddy, Joseph Albert
Brown, Lycurgus Jerome, P. M.
Cook, Henry Jason, P. M.
Cook, Hiram S.
Cross, William Henry
Cuthbertson, Alex. Macbeth
Danley, James Warren
Desrosier, George Wash., P. M.
Duncan, Chas. Prentice, P. M.
Fisher, Horace Winton
Felts, Christopher Columbus

Fouch, Arthur John
Hastings, George Washington
Hyman, William S. ,
Hineline, George
Marshell, Wm. Porter
Mushett, Leo Lee
McDow, Thomas Benton
Pence, Geo. B. McClellin
Rumelsburg, Herman
Scriver, Frederick
Snyder, August Charles
Taylor, John Delos Sharp, P. M.

-25

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.
Elsinore, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Stewart, Master,
Chas. S. Merrifield, Sen. Deacon,
John Timmis, Senior Warden,
Wm. Francis Portius, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Penn Hawarth, Jun. Warden, Charles Hudson, Marshal,
Charles Dickens Pool, Treasurer,
Lewis Delancy Clark, Steward,
Peter Wall, Secretary,
Hugh Walker, Steward,
Oliver Stewart Clark, Tyler.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

360

Barnett, Eli Elsa
Barnett, Adrian Benjamin
Barnett, Cephas Logan
Barnett, Marcus Elsa
Barnett, John Zachariah
Brown, William Edwin
Black, Lester
Brutn, George
Clark Oliver Stewart
Clark, Lewis Delancy
Cline, Tho:µias A.
Combs, George Arlingion
Cowles, Charles Henry
Gyger, Charles E.
Gyger, James H.
Guthridge, Wm. Alonzo
Haworth, William Penn
Hook, Joseph Frederic, J!. M.
Hudson, Charles, P . M.
Kimball, Albert Thomas
Lawler, Sii.muel Luther
Lawler, Charles

MEMBERS:
McCrea, David White
Manatt, Scott E.
Merrifield, Charles Sumner, P. M.
Moley, Walter C.
Morrison, William L . .
Nelson, Richard Clark
Payton, William Bruce
Peck, John Emmet
Pool, Charles Dickens
Portius, William Francis
Ross, George Chinn
Sloan, William Erskine, P. M.
Shafer, Charles
Smith, Walter F.
Stewart, James, P. M.
Tibbet, John Franklin
Timmis, John
Tipton, John C.
Wall, Peter
Walker, Hugh
Waters, Elon Elon
Whitfield, Nathaniel Churchill -44

EAST GATE LODGE, N".

290.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Ftiday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry E. Herman, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Henry Davidson, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick W. Tyler, Marshal,
Frederick Theo. Purdy, Steward,
Jacob Ferd. Haller, Steward,
William Richardson, Tyler.

Wm. Andrew Spalding, Master,
F. Cannon Mulkey, Sen. Warden,
Asa Keyes, Junior Warden,
Charles Martin Burr, Treasurer,
Edward Lee Stephens, Secretary,
Wm. Thomas Daniel, Chaplain,
Atherton, Nelson
Ahrens, August
Adams, Robert Perry
Arnoldt, Herman
Alexander, Oran Laffatat
Aydelotte, George Howard

MEMBERS:
Allen, Carroll Hess
Adcock, Robert James
Allen, Robert Mitchell
A.dams, Robert Henry
Arnold, Oscar Robert
Alexander, Charles Ambrose

. ..
• •

Anderson, John Francis
Ashley, William Buckley
Alexander, Stephen W. Dorman
Alysworth, George Webb
Archer, Arthur Jasen
Andrews, Clarence Carlton
Ambrose, Wiley Vance
Ambrose, Frank Fielder
Adams, James Gilmour
Bard, Hampeus Victor, P. M.
Blackman, Julius Lucien
Bradford, Charles Samuel, P. M.
Burr, Charles Martin
Beyrle, Andrew
Baum, Jacob
Burgoyne, William
Buehler, Charles
Berman, Harry
Boyle, Peter Murray, P. M.
Bouchard, Philips
Bigler, Robert Caleb
Bogart, Charles Henry
Bascom, Edgar Floyd
Bowersock, Charles Aridrew
Baker, Charles Edwin
Berry, John Price
Blackstone, Henry Winthrop
Brown, Joseph Edgar
Bourne, John Franklin
Bailey, John T.
Bullis, Wesley H.
Brain, Robert Thomas
Boyd, Charles Elmer
Beamon, Alexander Mortimer
Bradford, Charles Raymond
Blair, Philip Albert
Baetz, John Henry
Berne, Martin Alonzo
Baldwin, Evan Jenkins, Jr.
Brown, Clinton Orlin
Barrett, Clyde Alexander
Blessington, Frank Edward
Clark, Edgar Willard
Collette, Louis Prime
Chaney, Edward Watson
Campbell, Henry Chapney

361

Carrick, Harvey Hall
Carson, John Kingsley
Coleman, Thomas Newton
Crawford, John Henry
Christian, Harfield Timberlake
Carver, Charles Elliott
Case, Edwin Alanson
Carhart, John Warren
Conklin, Leon Robbin
Cary, Oliver
Cole, Nathan, Jr.
Charbonnel, Marie Joseph Zoisime
Coedry, Thomas Wallace
Cooper, Milton Gilbert
Chambers, Andrew Jackson
Clapp, Victor
Chester, Charles Monod
Cooksey, William Mansfield
Chadwick, Arthur Bell
Calef, Frank John
Dickson, James
Donato, Henry Delmond
Dromgold, Reuben Wisor
Dibble, James Robert
Durfee, DeLois Atkins
Dockstrader, Ernest Clayton
De La Monte, Jacques Henry
Daniel, William Thomas
Douglas, Percy Holme
Davidson, William Henry
Davison, Allen
DeNick, John Adam
Eason, Charles Horace
Etchepare, Gaston Joseph
Ewing, William Samuel
Edgerton, Edwin Oviatt
Evans, Evan Arthur
Eagan, Daniel Augustus
Flint, Frank Putnam, P . M.
Flint, Motley Hughes, P. G. M.
Flynn, Rudolph
Fulton, William Henderson
Fisher, Walte~ Willard
Fernald, Joseph Harry
Forbes, Frank Sumner
Feidler, Max

362

ROSTER.

Fehrensen, Louis Henry
Gardiner, Francis Irwin
Gale, William Knight
Gardiner, Robert St. John
Gillingham, Caleb
Goble, William Franklin
Gordan, Benhard
Gray, Thomas Henry
Gray, Melville M.
Green, Jonathan M.
Gwynn, Alfred Edward
Hable, George Henry
Hafford, Ferris Samuel
Hale, George Varnum
Hall, Harry Barton
Haller, Jacob Ferdinand
Hallett, William Hovey
Harris, Cornelius Radcliff
Harris, Harry Lester
Hathaway, LeViene .Josiah
Hawley, Mark Lee
Hayes, Fred
Hayward, Frank Edward
Healy, Bernard
H;eaney, Robert
Rease, John Max
Hellman, Marco Herman
Henderson, William Alexander
Henshaw, William Ambrose
Herman, Henry Elmer
Herwick, John Steck
Howe, Francis Beniah
Hogancamp, Robert Thomas
Hollis, George Henry
Holderman, Clarence f!llith
Holmes, Alfred Henry
Holloway, Joseph Brevitte
Horner, John
Horton, Leo White
Houser, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.
Hudson, Geo. Whitfield
Huestis, Ed. McCook
Hutchins, Ray
James, Frank
Janssen, Julius
J cffries, John Henry

Jeffrey, Andrew 0r1'
Johnson, John Griffith
Johnson, James Thomas ·
Johnson, Pierce }'loyd
Johnson, Charles William
Joslyn, Charlton E.
Keise, Roy Boardman
Kellogg, Frederick Ranney
Kennedy, William Homer
Keyes, Charles George
Keyes, Asa
King, Francis Everton
Kletting, Oscar
Knoer, Charles Albert
Koretz, Emil
Lampton, Leon Eugene, P. M.
Landsberg, Marcus
.
Lane, Ralph Elthworthy
Lanphar, William Vaughn ·
Lawler, Oscar, P. M.
Lawler, Norman
Lawrence, John
Leavers, George Reynolds
Leeds, Walter Ransome
Leeds, William Harmon
Leffier, John Robert
Leffier, Charles Blackburn
Lester, Albert Austin
LeVan, Charles William
Lovejoy, William Robertson
Luckenbach, John
Lynch, Edward C.
Maag, Jacob Henry .
Maley, Charles Wesley
Martin, David, P. M.
Martin, James Rufus
McAlpine, Bertram
McCully, Richard Overall
McClure, John
McDonald, Charles Alexander
McGarvin, Donne Clio
Mcintyre, Charles Ira, P. M.
McKeag, William" Heisler, Jr.
McKillip, Denis Edward
McMillan, Erwin Adelbert
McNab, Frank Brown

• ROSTER.

.

'

•

McWhorter, Thomas Lakin
Mendelsolm, Myer
Meredith, William 'Gaylor«
Messacar, Frank William
Metzler, Milton
Michelson, Homer Manuel
Montgomery, Chester Arthur
Morrill, Mattson, Annis
Morris, Bernard
Morris, Jacob
Morrison, Edwin M.
Morgan, William Brazelton
Moore, Robert Beach
Moss, Clemence Felton
Mottashed, John Alexander
Mulkey, Frank Cannon
Musso, Rocco Vincenzo
1'1esbit, Hayes William
Nevins, Leon Wesley
Nickell, Francis Marion
Nickerson, John William
Nightengale, John Henry
Nutter, Lyman Eugene
Oliver, William Edwin
Orr, Oscar Owen
Ottarson, Earl Ferdinand Joaquin
Palmer, Thomas Sht>.rpe
Palomaras, Frank Josiah
Pallman, Axell
Parker, Claude Irving
Patterson, Charles Edgar
Patterson, Peter F.
Patton, Vaughn Quain
Pangborn, William James Walter
Paul, John Rink
Penn, Charles Franklin
Perkins, Albert Henry Scudder
Pierce, William Harry
Plumb, William Benjamin
Porter, Charles Alfred
Priddy, Ulysses Grant
Putman, Frederick Singleton
Purdy, Frederick Theo.
Quince, Frederick William
Randle, William Alonzo
Reber, John Edward

Rees, William David
Remington, Samuel W.
Renfro, Alva D.
Reichard, Jacob
Reynolds, Clay Moses
Richardson, William
Ritchie, Alfred George
Ritchie, James
Romans, Ttieo. Denny
Romans, Lorenzo
Royere, Paul Peter
Rush, Judson Randolph
Russell, Almen Butler
Sanborn, Clar1mce Kendall
Sanborn, Wheelock Kimball
Schmidt, Herman Carl
Schroeter, ·Robert George
Schultz, Emil Albert
Searl, Albert
Shang, Hubert Story
Shaw, Ross D.
Shilling, Warren Randolph
.Shorb, Orrie Ashley Andrew
Shultis, Jordan
Smalley, John Newton
Smith, Benjamin Nathaniel, Jr.
Smith, Frederick W"illiam
Sµi.ith, Melvin David
Smith, Ross Williams
Spalding, William Andrew
Spear, Joseph Morgan
Spear, Sa~uel Dunn
Spence, John Daniel
Spencer, Thomas Jarvis
Stafford, Harry Fritsch
Stead, Benson, Jr.
Stephens, Albert Miller, Jr.
Stephens, Clarence Eugene
Stephens, Edward Lee, P. M.
Stephens, Clarence Edward
Stephens, Harry Shryo~k
Stearns, Elmer Paine
Stevenson, Charles Oscar
Stockwell, Gtlorge \1 aRhi,ngton
Stone, Hac.ry Eli
Streshlcy, Richard Channey

363

365

ROS'.l'ER.

304

Washburn, William. Johnson
Weaver, Lucian Leroy
Weir, William :Warren
Weller, William Wood_s
West, George ~mer
West, Henry Hebard
White, William
Wharton, Charles B.
Williams, Herbert George
Willis, Frank Rominar, P. M.
Wilson, William Frank
Wilson, Charles Allen
Winans, Alonzo Cully
Winters, Charles Oscar
Witham, William ffenry
Yager, Sherman Alvin
Younkman, William Earl
Zeitz, William David.
-324.

Stuart, Joseph Leroy
Suell, Elijah
Syminton, Gilbert. John
Taylor, Russell McDonald
Terrell, Herbert Tonman
Thom, Catesby Charles, P. M.
Thom, Cameron DeHart
Thomson, James
Thompson, Mark, P. M.
Tibbitts, James Madison
Train, John Henry
Trueblood, Samuel T.
Tyler, Benn Champion
Tyler, Frederick Williams
VanWhy, August Marion
Walbridge, Otis Collins·
Walsh, Daniel Potter
Ward, George Washington

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.
Santa Paula, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Hall Orcutt, Master
Willie McCain Stein, Sen. Deacon,
Frank Keith Titus, Senior Warden, Ray Co~ort Joy, Junior Deacon,
Walter H. Wright, Junior Warden, Frank Cheeney Foster, Marshal,
Charles H. McKevett, Treasurer,
Harry Milton Farrand, Steward,
Edwin Virden, Secretary,
George Wash. Flisher, Steward,
Emory Briggs, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Cauch, John Robert
Churchill, Joshua Perry
Claberg, Norris Leander
Clarke, Robert Montgomery
Cleveland, Charles Jerry
Crane, John Briggs
Corbett, Leonard White
Davis, Frank Elwell, P. M.
Davis, Arthur H.
DeNure, Delos DeWolf
Draper, Arthur Edgar
Drown, Alton Lucius

Allen, William Henry
Barnes, Louis Lee
Barkla, Carl Benjamin
Barry, George A.
Best, Willis Austin
Beckley, Leroy Salisbury, P. M .
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, P. M.
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, Jr.
Briggs, Emory
Browne, Isaac Proctor, P. M.
Brown, Rennie Colmer
Burson, Albert Louis, P. M.

•

..

.-

Fagan, Michael
Farrand, George E.
Farra!l,d, Harry Milton
Flisher, George Washington
Foster, Frank Cheney
Frey, William Lester
Gascoigne, Stephen
Gibson, John Archibald
Good, Frank Elwin
Graham, John Biggs
Guiberson, Joseph Warner
Hales, William
Hardison, Wallace Libby
Hardison, Guy Lyman
Hardison, Louis Arthur
Hardison, Lowell Mason
Haugh, Joseph Reck, P. M.
Harrington, James Hastings
Hawley, Oscar Franklin
Henderson, Herbert Curtis
Hudson, Charles Henry
Hutchison, Robert Newton
Jenkins, Samuel Rogers
Joy, Ray Comfort
Kays, Henry B.
Kelsey, Arthur Louis, P. M.
Kenney, William
Mack, James, P. M.
Mann, John Wesley
McKevett, Charles Henry
McDivitt, Clyde James
Mcintosh, George Robert
Mangle, William Burket
Mott, David Wallace, P. M .
Olmsted, Frank Curson

Orcutt, John Hall
Pickering, James Alex.
Plaugher, Frank
Poplin, Robert Lee
Potter, Mack
Puckett, Charles Newton
Ramsey, William McCreery
Rice, James Clarence
Richardson, John A.
Richardson, William Fenney
Salatb.e, Frederick
Say, Norman Oliver, P. M.
Scott, William Benjamin
Skinner, Ernest Guy
Skinner, George Horace .
Skinner, George Leonard
Sloan, James Harvey, P. M.
Slocum, Thomas Arnolc\
Simpson, James Allen
Sperry, James Clarence
Stein, Willie McCain
Stewart, James Foster
Teague, Charles Collins
Teague, Richard Henry
Titus, James Burrows, P. M,
Titus, Frank Keith
Todd, Marquis DeLafayette
Underwood, William Lane
Virden, Edwin, P. M.
Webb, Charles Tichner
•
Whitmer, George
Wiser, Frank Alfred
Wilson, Charles Berry
Wright, Walter Henry
Youngken, Benjamin Noble -94.

LOS GATOS LODGE, No.

292.

Los Qa.tos, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each Month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Hunter Briggs, Master,
Edward S. S. Butler, Senior Deacon,
. Peter F. Lint, Senior Warden,
George A. Green, Junior Deacon,
Anton Anderson, Junior Warden,
Notia Irwin Wilder, Marshal,
Arthur Berryman, Treasurer,
Charles Henry Pierce, Steward,
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Abram Lash Sams, Steward,
Samuel Syverson, Tyler.

366

ROSTER.

Anderson, Anton
Beckwith, Henry Seamon
Berryman, Arthur, P. M.
Balch, Stevens Delos
Blank, Moses Franklin, P. M.
Briggs, Charles Hunter
Bullard, Sewell Francis
Butler, Edward Samuel Stone
Chubbock, Samuel Willis
Cole, Lawrens A.
Curtiss, Merritt C.
Decker, Charles Magnus
Derrickson, 'Francis Marion
Ellis, John Edward
Emerson, George Randolph
Erickson, Andrew Lawrence
Finley, Harry St. Clare
Fretwell, Joseph Joel
Gober, Robert Pearis
Hook, Jonathan Wesley
Hunter, Charles Mandeville
Johns, Thomas Edwin, P. M.
.Tones, William, P. M.
King, John Jay
Knowles, Frank Wesley, P . M.
Latham, Allen Roscoe
Lint, Peter Franklin
Lowell, Frank Sumner
Lyndon, James Hardie

ROSTER.

MEMB:&RS:
Lyndon, John W i:ltlon
McMurtry, George Sherman
Moore, David Charles
Osmer, George
Pearce, Bartholomew William
Pearce, Franklin. Walter
Pearce, James Henry
Pierce, Charies Henry'
Rice, John Austin
Riggs, Zedd Smith, P. M.
Roberts, Carl Jackson
Roberts, Douglas J.
Roberts, Hugh Ross, P. M.
Roberts, Sumner Yan Ness, P. M.
Robertson, Richard Felix, P. M.
Sage, Lewis Alvin
Sams, Abram Lash
i3cammon, Charles Franklin
Sheffield, Leslie Ellsworth
Shirley, Horace Gordon
Simpson, Samuel
Sporleder, William
Stanfield, James John
Sund, Louis
Syverson, Samuel
)
Trailer, Lewis Clinton, P. M.
~
Watson, Robert Matthew
Wilder, Notia Irwin.

-57.

•

...

367

MEMBERS :
Adams, Harrison Zachariah
Lee, Eugene Tewksbury
Adams, John
Lounsberry, John Brown
Arnim, William Laidley
Mallory, Charles Perrin
Baker, Charles
MacMullan, Daniel A.
Boice, A. Croxton
McDonald, William Henry
Bishop, Clyde Livingston, P. M.
l\icTaggart, Neil Godfrey
Boring, Johnty Purcell
Meehan, Jack Edward
Bowen, David
Miller, Herman A.
Braisher, John Sidney, P. M.
Morgan, John William
Burke, Orion Harry
Myers, Jesse David
Bush, William Tandy, P. M.
Newell, Arthur Child
()ollins, Isaac Lee, P. M.
Paine, James Robert
Cooper, Harry R.
Perkins, Wylyss Warren
Clark, Milo Monroe
Pixley, DeWitt Clinton
Crawford, Daniel Peers
Poussette, William Courthope
Dalton, Robert C.
Riley, George Allan
Donovan, Napoleon
Robertson, Francis Elolen
Drake, David Clarence
Robertson, Fred. Martin
Durfee, Louis Adelbert
Royer, Daniel Franklin, P. M.
Edwards, Nelson Thomas
Schmidt, John
Field, James
Scott, Walter Maxwell
Field, Charles Otis
Scott, Alfred Jay, Jr.
Frederick, Joseph Hanna
Smith, William Arthur
Fullerton, James, P. M.
Swinney, Vincent Bolivar
1.:rregg, Walter Scott, P. M.
Tiffany, Abraham B.
Gregg, William Merrill
Lipham, Harry George
Hayton, John Burr
Wade, Llewellyn
Helwig, Walter Lee
Waldorf, Albert J.
Hitchcock, Alton Lincoln
Watson, Kellar E.
Honey, Edwin Alonzo, P. M.
Weber, Francis S.
Jesson, George Francis
Williams, Howard Orlan, P. M.
Johnston, William Daniel
Williams, J aiues Thomas
Killefer, Joseph, P M.
. Williams, Warner Bryant, P . . M.
King, John Allen
Weymouth, Albert
Knesel, Jacob L.
---69.
0

•

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.
Orange, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Tu£sday o~ or next preceding Full Moon.

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294.

OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Garland Ward Curle, Master,
Joseph D. Pillsbury, Senior Deacon,
Reuben H. Fray, Senior Warden,
Nathan Alfred King, Junior Deacon,
Charles H. Dill, Junior Warden,
D. Bunn Rea, Marshal,
Everett W. Crosby, Treasurer,
Martin S. Stirewalt, Steward,
Forrest R. Stirewalt, Secretary,
Axel Johnson, Steward,
Francis Leo Rea, Chaplain;
George Wash. McGovran, Tyler.

William Daniel Johnston, Ma~ter, Alton L. Hitchcock, Senior Deaco;n, ·
N~lson T. Edwards; Sen. Warden, Arthur Childs Newell, Jun. Deac1n,
Harrison Z. Adams, Jun. Warden, .. .................. , Marshal,
Kellar E. Watson, Treasurer,
... . ................ , St£.ward,
Walter S. Gregg, Secretary,
. .. ................. , Steward,
......... . ... .. ....... , Tyler.

Traver, Tulare County.

ROSTER.

368

MEMBERS:
Payne, Oliver Payton
Barry, William Scott
Peacock, Harrison Ross
Buchanan, Alex. Marion
Pennebaker, William Findlay
Crosby, Everett Wilbur
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis, P. M.
Curle, Garland Ward, P. M.
Rea, Francis Leo
Fray, Reuben Henry
Rea, D. Bunn
Dill, Charles Henry, P. M.
Stirewalt, Martin Sandy
Howard, Frank Evans
Fltiri>walt, Forrest Roy
.Johnson, Axel
Thomas, Henry Colby
King, Nathan Alfred
Williams, Nelson Walln.ce
King, Roberson Jefferson
Wolfe, Alonzo D.
McGovran, George W a.shington
Wolff, Seigmund
Millsap, Eugene Albert
Young, John Solomon
Mugler, Albert Miller
-27.
Nelson, William Dennis

ROSTER.

• •

Kuster, Mathias
Marshall, John Madison
McGuffin, Isaac, P. M.
McPeak, Anthony
McPeak, Mathew Lawrence
Miller, James Zering
Morelli, Lee Gaulinzie
Morelli, Joseph Barnbn.
Mosley, Albert Pettis
Oberfell, William
Patton, John
Peugh, David Benjamin
Peugh, Edward Allen
Plath, Fritz
Prestwood, Jesse Franklin
Prosek, Charles Martin, P. M.

369

Ridenhour, Lewis Edward
Rule, William Johnson
Shera, Albert Edward
Snow, Phillip Henry
Stacy, William James Bolton
Teaderman, Edward
Thompson, William Huntoon
Tunstall, Robert Noel
Turner, William Arthur
Ungewitter, Henry W1:1st, P. M.
Van De Mark, George Franklin
Watson, Marvin Albert
Watson, James Reade, P. M.
Wendt, Fred John
Wescott, Oliver
-61.

MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295 .. ·
Guerneville, Sonoma County.

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or ~ext preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Jesse Franklin Prestwood, Master, Alfred B. Abbey, "Senior Deacon,
David B. Peugh, Senior Warden,
William Chester Cole, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Arthur Turner, Jun. Warden, David Wetzel, Marshal,
Oliver Wescott, Treasurer,
Isaac McGu:ffin, Steward,
John Jeff. Keaton, Secretary,
Thomas F. Duncan, Steward,
Marshall Florence, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Cole, William Lester
Corbaley, Walter Bond
Cole, Williard Chester
Duncan, Thomas Fluden
Florence, Marshall
Florence, Arthur
Fickeisen, Frederick William
Gilliam, David Taylor
Hasek, Frank Joseph
Reason, George W alket
Hetzel, David
Hrusa, John
Irwin, Joseph Wesley
Jansen, Soren Christian
Keaton, John Jefferson

Abbey, Alfred
Abbey, Alfred Bailhche
Austin, David Lee
austin, John Overton
Ayers, William Henry Martin
Bagley, Herbert Lincoln, P. M.
Banks, James Asa
Beattie, John, P. M.
Bohn, Frederick
Brearety, Charles Stephen
Brown, Chester Brock
Byron, Edward Herbert
Campbell, James Madison
Carr, Charles Fremont
Cobb, Omer Otto

San Diego, San Diego County.

a' •

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Fred Cornelius Hyers, Master,
Homer G. Taber, Senior Deacon,
Frank Aug. Frye, Senior Warden, Parker Earl Baird, Junior Deacon,
Charles L. Marks, Junior Warden, Lawrence Aug. Creelman, Marshal,
Eugene Daney, . Treasurer,
Gustaf Brelin, Steward,
Joseph H. Francis, Secretary,
John Campbell, Steward,
Archibald Taylor, Chaplain,
·Frank D. Jefferis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Acheson, Nathan Bailey
Adam, George Benjamin
Anderson, Gottfred
Bachman, Joseph Sylvester
Baird, Parker Earl
Beach, Henry Ward
Beach, John Chauncey
Benoit, Victor
Benton, William C.
Bode, George Elton
Botting, Charles Stewart
Boyle, Daniel
Bradbury, John Fairfield
24

Bradley, Andrew Joseph
Brelin, Gustaf
Brown, Edward Leslie
Brus~hi, Virgilio Geacomo
Buck, Adam
Burbeck, Edward Mitchell
Hye, Charles Richard
Capps, Edwin Morris
Campbell, John
Carey, George Washington
Carter, Frank Watkins
· Cassidy, James Henry, P. M.
Chilton, William Brown

370

Chapman, George Burton
Clark, James Smith
Clements, Albert Henry
Conroy, John
Copley, James Grace
Cornell, Anson Fiske, P. M.
Creelman, Lawrence Aug., P. M.
Cummings, Bartholomew Peter
Daney, Eugene, P. M.
Davis, Fredric Eugene
Davis, William Justus, P. M.
DeFerrari, Joseph Charles
Doddridge, William Henry
Dodson, Alonzo Eugene, P. M.
Downs, Benjamin Fuller
Doyle, ,Tarvis Lathrope, P. M.
Dudley, Irving Bedell
Ehrman, Henry ~tephens
Ernsting, Christian William
Escher, John Frederick
Fano, Edward Aaron
Ferguson, William Joseph
Fletcher, Edward
Francis, Joseph Henderson
Franklin, Alford Clarence
Frye, Frank Augustus
Gearhart, Wilber Fisk
Greene, Wilber Eugene
Gillen, Joseph Reath
Grove, Edward
Hakes, Charles Clifford
Hakes, Ledyard Burdette
Hansen, George
Hardy, Charles Saunders
Harry, Sidney Curtis
Harrison, George Richard
Hoar, Thomas Charles
Hoberecht, Albert
Hornbeck, Edson A.
Holmquist, Carl Alfred
Hulburd, Ebenezer Wallace
Hyers, Fred Cornelius
Ireland, Joseph
Johnstone, James Simpson
Johnstone, Harry Smith
Johnstone, Albert Edward, P. M.

ROSTER.
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Evan Robert
Kaford, Theo. Lawrence
Kaidel, John Theo.
Klein, David
Kneale, Thomas
Kneale, William
Knoles, Samuel Stone
King, Enoch Leander
Kretsinger, David Lewis
Kurtz, .Tohn Bloxham
Lyke, Charles William
Malmberg, Nils
Marks, Charles Leonard
Marshall, Otta
Mertzman, Frank
McAlpine, Amos Chapman
McGar, Percy Herbert
McKenzie, Bernard Wright
McKenzie, George M.
McKenzie, Alex.
Mcinnes, Magness
Millspaugh, Allanson Gillespie
Moran, Alford
Morey, Charles Eugene
Neely, William Thomas
O'Neil, James Clifford
0 'Farrell, Fred
Palmeter, Charles Sumner
Park, Charles Clarence
J;>arker, Peter James
Peterson, William James
Phillips, Edwin Theophilus
Phillips, George · Andrew
Phillips, George Washington
Pollock, Harrold Kent
Preston, Edward Livermore
Prien, Henry Frederick John
Pringle, William Henry
Rehn, George William
Robinson, Fred Hanson
Rood, Vernon Dudley
Scoville, Samuel Milton
Schrader, Adolph
Schrader, Charles Adolph
Shaw, Francis Albert Thompson

ROSTER.
Shepard, William Milton
Sillifant, Francis James
Sinclair, Charles Newton
·Slewing, Robert Robert
Smith, William Muffiin
Smith, Ernest Howard
Snyder, Nelson Spencer
Spriggs, Frederick Hen:ry
Stead, Grove DeForest
Steade, James Milton
Sweet, Adelbert Hiram, P. M.
Symons, John ~uiller
Taber, Homer Galena
Tarr, Clarence Lincoln
Taylor, Archibald, P. M.
Thomas, Richard A.
· Timken, Henry
Toms, George Ernest

371

Treahy, John Patric
Turner, Abner Marleborough
Vergon, James
Wade, William Edward.
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Wall, Henry Lafayette
Wandry, Bruno John
W elisch, Herman
W ells, James, P. M.
Wellington, Charles Irwin
Westcott, John Clark
Winsby, Enoch, P. M.
Wilson, William
"'illard, Harry M.
Wolf, Edward Wm. Julius Lewis
Wood, Royal A.
Wright, Orlando S.
-15ll.

DUNSMUIR LODGE, No. 297.

••

Dunsmuir, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Gustave Albert Hutaff, Master, ·
Mathias C. Schandell, Sen. Deacon,
Jeffrey W. Hawkins, Sen. Warden, Joseph Levy, Junior Deacon,
. . . . . . . . . . . . .. : .. ., Marshal,
Harry A. Wilson, Junior Warden,
Alexander Levy, Treasurer,
Charles Wilmer !back, Steward,
Byron Franklin Dunn, Secretary, • Harrison Franklin Stuckey, Steward,
Chas. Elliott Thompson, Chaplain,
Henry Herron, Tyler. .

•
•1

Anderson, Fred
Atkins, John Hugh
Axtell, Morris McClellan
Banfield, Harry Wentworth
Beard, John Augustus
Bowen, Elisha J.
Brown; Herbert Ernest
Bryan, Percy Abbott
Campbell, John Milton
Carnahan, 1.;narles Abraham
Comstock, Homer Guilford
Culver, Alex. Eugene

MEMBERS:
Culver, James Duellis
Cuvellier, Rene William
Darby, Frank Howard
Diekey, James
Dougherty, Charles Fremont
Dougherty, James Barton
Doerr, Frank Herman
Du Bose, John Evance
Dunn, Byron Franklin, P. M .
Elfendahl, Ernest William
Engvicht, G!'orgl'
Eubanks, Calvin

372

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Fitz Gerald, John Willard
Fussier, Julius Earle
Fuller, Louis Clark
Gotthold, Julius Charles
Griffith, Aaron Sumner
Hallisy, James
Hawkins, Jeffrey William, P. M.
Herron, Henry S.
Higgins, Frank Lincoln
Hobart, Frederick Edward
Hollis, Fred John
Hoffman, Jacob Ziba
Hutaff, Gustave Albert
Ibach, Charles Wilmer
Jenkins, Walter Story
Joesink, George Henry
Judy, Fred Verdam
Kilborn, Harry Alden
Lambert, Luther Jackson
Land, Henry Augustus
Lee, William Robert
Levy, Alex., P. M .
Levy, Joseph
Malone, George Edwin
Mallory, Fred Lucien
Mariner, Wilber Plimingtol'
McCoy, George Watson, P. M.
McCoy, William Henry
McDonald, William Dorsey
Munamaker, Walter D.
Neeley, David Arthur
Nourse, Francis Cummings

Parkinson, George Martin
Ragan, Edwin D.
Richardson, Henry Thomas
Ricksecker, Ovid Hall
Robertshaw, James
Roberts, William Bailey, P. M.
Russell, Charles Parker
Russell, Jamee. Edward
Salzman, George
Saunders, James
Schadt, Alfred Daniel
Schandel, Matthias Charles
Shearer, George Edwin
Shearer, Jesse Herbert
· Silva, Louis
Small, William Thomas
· Southnick, Roy Frank
Sullivan, Daniel Franci~
Tartar, Horace Van
Thompson, Joseph
Thompson, Charles Elliott
Tipton, Ora Francis
Trugeon, William George
Van Vactor, Harold Grant
Van Vactor, William Emmet
Walters, John William
Walther, Harry Lincoln, P. M.
Wentz, Henry
Wickes, Charles Elsworth.
Wilkins, Alva Roswell
Williams, Albert Spen~er
Wilson, Harry W.
-88

MEMBERS:

•

•

.....

Barazini, Joseph
Berry, Clarence Allisou
Blake, Charles Henry
Bruce, Eugene Edgar, P. M.
Chaffee, Frank
Champion, John
Congdon, Edward Philip
Congdon, George Julius
Cortmarsh, Frank Odilon
Cowell, Thomas Albert
Cox, James Mil.son
Crawford, Arthur Eugene
Da.y, Charles Eugene, P . M.
Day, Francis Henry, P. M.
Day, John Benjamin
Davidson, Samuel Louis
Davoust, William Louis
Dell 'Orto, Joseph
Dondaro, Bartholomew
Emerson, George
Flanders, Addison
Flanders, Henry Scribner
Unecco, .iohn
Guth, Charles
Hamaun, Theo.
Hexter; Louis
Holbrook, Eugene Harvey
Houston, Harry Lee
Jennings, Caesar
Jones, Evan Llewellyn

· Luke, Simon
Magaw, James, P. M.
Maher, Edward, P. M.
Mayer, Joseph
Messenger, Hiram Henry
Meyer, John Wilhelm
Miller, Ra~ph Anderson
Moore, John
Murry, Henry Gordon
Pattie, Joseph Henry
Peek, Frank Wilson
Peters, Thomas Constantine, P. M .
Rathbun, Sylvan Ford
Read, Walter
Robinson, William Thomas
Rodonovich, John
Schrag, Henry
Sterling, John Henry
Stewart, James Oscar
Suessdorf, Frederick WHliam
Swithenbank, Albert A.
· Taylor, Thomas William
Thompson, James Thomas
Thompson, Ross Stevens
Towle, Franklyn Zeba
Vusich, Peter
Warnecke, Ca~l Marie
Wilson, Thomas Alex.
Yeager, Weldey Smith
--59.

MOKELUMNE HILL LODGE, No. 298.

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.

Mokelumne Hill, Calaveras Oounty.

Santa Clara, Santa Olara pounty. .

Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Thomas C. Peters, Master,
Weldy S. Yeager, Semor Deacon,
Albert A. Swithenbanlr, Sen. W.,
Joseph Dell 'Orto, Junior Deacon,
Clarence A. Berry, Junior Warden, John Henry Sterling, Marshal,
Fred W. Suessdorf, Treasurer,
William Thomas Robinson, Steward,
Henry Schrag, Secretary,
Edward Philip Congdon, Steward,
Joseph ·Mayer, Chaplam,
Caesar Jennings, Tyler.

OFFICERS:
Horace Asbury Myers, Sen. Deacon,
Percy Stuart Regnart, Master,
Louis M. Kimberlin, Sen. Warden, Max Kohner, Junior Deacon,
Jacob Milton Cox, Marshal,
Richard F. Hart, Junior Warden,
Samuel H. Morrison, Steward,
Albert Harris, Treasurer,
Thomas Henry Smith, Steward,
Edward Chase, Secretary,
Louis Gairaud, Tyler.
Wiley H . Trogden, Chaplain,

...

•

374

•

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS :
Adams, Frank Yale
Hamilton, George Edward
Alden, Edward Henry
Hamilton, Henry John
Alderman, Fred Alton
Hanscom, James Duane, P. M.
Allen, James Alphonso
Hargreaves, Robert Henry
Harris, Albert
'
Angus, John Archie
Ayres, Clarence Mortimer
Hart, Orlando Elton
Baker, Edward James
Hersey, Edward Johnson
Barli, Allessandro Luciani, P. M.
Hillis, John Ralph
Bean, Harry Joel
Hirsch, Emil George, P. M.
Beattie, David A.
Hobson, 'J esse Iris
Beattie, Murray
Horst, William, Jr.
Benjamin, Otho Howard
Hutchinson, James
Berry, John William
Irwin, Samuel Joseph·
Bishop, Ezra Francis
Jackson, Newton Senter
Bohannan, Willis George
Johnson, Carl Frederick
Bond, Louis Whitford
Johnson, William· Henry
Bowdish, Melville Sherwood
Killam, Amos Franklin
Britton, Lewis Henry
Kimberliii, Louis Melvin
Chase, Edward
Kohner, Ignatz
Chickowich, George John
Kohner, Max
Uhilson, William Charles
Landrum, Andrew Jeft'erson, P. M.
Clark, Earl Danforth
Landrum, Thomas Moore
Cox, Jacob Milon, P. M.
Lillick, Harry Andrew
Coyne, Robert John
Linderoth, Nels August
Cramer, George Franklin
Long, Laiayette
Crawford, Ernest James
Machefert, Frederick Leon Emile
Darling, Paul Lind!!ley
MacSwain, Alex. Reginald
Davidson, James Nelson
Maddox, Daniel Irwin
Dillon, Robert
Mcintyre, Cyrus Albert
Downing, George Lucas, P. M.
McWilliams, Glen
Eberhard, Henry Philip
Menzel, Henry August
Eberhard, John Jacob
Menzel, Robert, P. M.
Eberhard, Oscar Michael
Miller, Calvin Wilson
Elkins, Frank Edgar
Miller, John James
Emig, Frank Benjamin
Moore, Charles Edward
Farley, Nye Lincoln
Morrison, John Cameron, P. M.
Fletcher, Alex. B.
Morrison, Kenneth
li-airaud, Louis
Morrison, Norman Donald
Glendenning, James Edward
Morrison, Samuel Howland
GQetz, Christian Herman
Myers, Horace Asbury
Goodrich, Edward Elizer
Nelson, Virgil Elliott
Gordon, Harry Virgil
Offield, Archibald Leonard
Hruwell, Lawrence Chriss
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphus, P. M.
Gruwell, Melvin Lawrence
Osborne, Antrim Edgar
Haman, Carl Wesley, p. M.
Packscher, Maurice Goodtime

•

• i. •

Parker, Joseph McConnell, P. M.
Parker, Wilber Fiske
Percival, Freeman Foster
Pfister, Henry Adolph
Quivey, Willard Henry
Raymond, William Creque
Rayner, Thomas Elkanah
Regnart, Percy Stuart
Relph, Ovid Samuel
Rhodes, Jay Cloyd Barras
Rice, Delmer Sherman
Roll, John
Roop, George Benjamin
Rucker, Robert ' Russel
Rusconi, Vincent
Russell, Lawrence
Shields, James Robert, P. M .
Shields, William Anderson
Shoemaker, James Allen, P. M .
Smith, Frank Nichols
Smith, George Warren
Smith, Henry Kendall
Smith, Spencer Monroe
Smith, Thomas Henry

375

Smith, William Henry
Snively, Daniel
Stanley, Edward Payson
Stelling, Henry Gottlieb
Stocking, Leonard Emiah
Street, William Roe
Taylor, John Moss
Thompson, John Homer
Thompson, Thomas S.
Trevarrow, Anthony
Trogden, Wiley Hudelston, P. M.
Tully, George Franklin
Tully, Sylvanus Giles
Underwood, Alex. Richard
Van Dine, Melvin Everett
Waelty, Edward Henry
Waste, John Morton
Werner, William Henry
Whybark, George Washington
Wilkinson, Samuel Wallworth
Williams, Harry Lee
Withrow, Ralph Vargrave
Worrall, George H.
Zumwalt, Don John.
-138.

REDLANDS LODGE, No. 300.
Redlands, San. Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Martin Frank Pierce, Master,
Willia~ L. Pyle, Senior Warden,
Lymon Mourice King, Jun. Warden,
Robert M. Hamilton, Treasurer,
Otto George Suess, Secretary
MEMBERS:
Barton, William Thomas
Abbey, Charles Coy
Ball, Archibald E.
Allen., Halsey Warren, P. M.
Baughman, Charles H.
Anderson, John Young
Bay, Alva Clinton
Ansley, James Gilbert
Benson, Ralph William
Bailey, Charles Frederick
Beer, James Clark •
Barker, George Henry

376

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

'
Birch, James
Bishop, Peter Stephen
Bol:ierick, John Joseph
Branckman, Cornelius
Brock, Archibald Ellison
Brown, Charles Milton, P. M.
Brown, Charles Corey
Browning, Charles Clifton
Brunn, Christian P.
Bryan, Edwin Horace
Burns, Ulysses Grant
Campbell, Walter McNutt, P . M.
Carlson, Carl Otto
Case, Alonzo
Case, Ameron A.
Champion, Fred
Clark, Charles William
Clark, Lemuel Watson
CIOck, Charles Livingston
Clock, Fred H.
Clook, Alex. Bradshaw
Cook, William Omar
Cortner, George Paul
Covington, William Dockrey
Crafts, George Herbert
Craig, Scipeo
Davis, Charles E.
Davis, Alva Sylvester
Deck, Lewis
Deming, Harvey Clayton
Diss, John Wallace Fox
Doran, William A.
Dostal, John Frank
~rake, James Frederick, P. M.
Drake, Robert Zale
Easter, John Day
Easton, Clement Hond
Elkins, William Samuel
Estle, Charles Bernard
Ford, Harry Henderson
Fowler, Frank L.
Gaylord, Cass
Gaylord, Clinton Gilbert
Gore, John Wesley
Guthrie, Edmond Pierce
Hogan, John Reese

Hall, Cassius M.
Hamilton, Robert Morris, ~ M.
Hamilton, John W.
Harris, Charles Omer
Hart, Alex. Hamilton
Hatch, Albert Wilson
Heitman, John Borston
Hendrickson, Andrew Jackson
Hines, Frank Benjamin
;Hird, John Preston
Hobart, Charles H., P. · M.
Hotchkiss, Fred E.
Hough, Ira Millard
Horne, Harry, P. M.
Hoyt, Charles Harmon
Inch, Thomas Benjamin
Johnson, Benton Oscar
Johnson, Nathan Augustus
Johnson, William M.
Johnstone, Herbert W.
Kennard, George Gilbert
Kennedy, Duncan
King, Anderson Whitney
King, Lymon Maurice
Kingsbury, Homer P. Donaldson
Kline, William N.
Koehler, George William
Lafferty, John C.
Lansdom, Lincoln E.
Larue, William T.
Laird, Alex.
Leland, George H.
Leonard, Arthur James
Levering, Noah Lee ·
Link, Sylvester
Medland, Thomas James
Meserve, Frank Pierce, P. M.
Mitchell, Vinton Littleton
Moore, Elliott Augustus
Moore, Paul Walter
Moore, William Herbert
Morrison, Frank Pierce
Montigal, Ferdinand
Montgomery, George Washington
Mosbough, Edwin Harvey
Myers, Robert H.

•

•

•

..
~

Nelson, Arthur Pinkory
Newton, William .Martin
Nutter, Frank Wilbur
O'Kelley, Robert Charles
Osbun, Albert
Patton, Herbert
Peel, Thomas Leopold
Pentland, David
Phinney, Mellen Mosher
Phinney, Mellen Davis
Pierce, Martin Frank
Roundstone, Jacob
Prescott, Frank Clark
Prendergast, Jeffrey Joseph, P. M.
Pyle, William Lamborn
Reed, Davis Craig, P . M.
Reid, Clarence Samuel
Ree<l.er, Thomas Benton
Richardson, John Franklin
Riggs, James Sherburne
Ring, William
Ritchey, James Thomas
Rivera, Joseph Apollo
Rockwell, Sidney Eason
Ryer, George C.
Sanborn, Christopher Allen
Sanborn, Clifton E.
Setchfield, Richard
Springberg, Alfred Emile
Stearns, Augustus George·
Sparks, David Ernest

377

Sparks, Earl Leland
Steele, Louis Seymour
Stefan, Frederick Joseph
Stewart, Joseph Ireland
Stewart, William Hugh
Stone, James Albert, P. M.
Suess, Jacob John, P. M.
Suess, Otto George
Stults, William L.
Taylor, Albert Edwin, P. M.
Thaxter, George C.
Thornton, Thomas
True, Alfred Adams
Truesdell, Charles E.
Tuck, Edward Payson
Tyler, Hoell
Vahey, Charles E.
Vesper, Chartes Richard
Wales, Frank Adelbert
Waldo, Samuel S.
Wallace, John Easton
Warren, Eugene Charles
Wheat, James Madison
White, William Lewis
Whitson, Walter Verne
·Williams, Silas
Wilmot, Paul Walter
Wright, Carey Thomas
Wright, William K.
Yost, Charles
Zimmerman, Milton
-166.

ONTARIO LODGE, No. 301.
Ontario, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James H. Hatcher, Senior Deacon,
Charles Benjamin Ford, Master,
Le Roy Bradley, Junior Deacon,
George P. Smith, Senior Warden,
Charle~ E. Blain, Junior Warden, Cassimer B. Kustel, Marshal,
Cornelius G. H. Bennink, Treasurer, William Clay Chipps, Steward,
Robert 0. Brackenridge, Secretary, Harry Clayton Kennedy, Steward,
Silas Franklin Glass, Tyler.
Wilbur Walstein Smith, Chaplain,

.
378

Andrews, Josias J . .
Armstrong, John Samuel
Armstrong, Abel
Banks, John Wesley
Beesley, George Edward
Bennink, Cornelius G. Henry
Blain, Charles Edward
Blood, Samuel Gilson
Brackenridge, Robert Orwig
Bradley, Le Roy
Broad, Thomas
Caldwell, John Volmer
Catto, William
Childs, Job W assen
Chipps, William Clay
Ulark, Henry
Clark, John A.
Cohn, John Edward
Collins, William Edwin
Corder, Lewis Thomas
Crane, George Rice
Cutler, Lewis Tasheira
Dyar, Guy Edward
Faron, Lewis Haile
Ford, Byron
Ford, Charles Benjamin, P. M.
Frankish, Charles
Fredendall, John Frank
Glass, Silas Franklin
Glenn, Byron Price
Gray, Robert, P. M.
Hatcher, James Henderson
Hill, Eugene Leroy
Holbrook, George Robert
Holbrook, Jay
Jackson, Harrison Webster
Jesson, Jacob
Johns, Lloyd Garrison
Kennedy, Harry Clayton
Kustel, Cassimer Berringer
Lee, Lane R.
Lee, John S.
Lee, Dorr B.
Linder, ~e

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Lord, George Johnston
MacLeod, Male.om H. ·
Magly, J ease Elmer
Mann, Bathurst ·Billers
McMinn, James L.
McQuigg, Martin Van Bui:en, P. M.
Moore, Albert Dean., P. M.
Morris, John Todd
Morse, Clament Ray
Motsinger, Jacob L.
Murphy, William Roe
Nichols, Thomas Milan
Palmer, Millard Fillmore
Palmer, Alva Hiland
Payne, William Edward
Payne, J ease Howard
Phillips, Hickman
Powell, William Harris
Powell, John Benjamin.
Rarick, John
Rhodes, Edwin
Robertson, John Polk, P. M.
Rosenberger, William Dayton
Sawyer, Francis Lewis
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey, P. M "
Sheppard, Christopher
Short, Richard Childs
Simpson, William D.
Smith, Lovia11 Olin Peny H.
Smith, Rinaldo James
Smith, Wilbur Walstein, P. M.
Smith, George l'ettit
Southworth, Alva Morrison
Spalding, James S.
Spencer, Ripley F.
Terrill, Willil).m Peacham
Thompson, Albert Henry
Tyler, Labien Jeheil Elmer
Vandegrift, Samuel G.
:Wheeler, Henry L.
Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
Williams, Bertram Eldred
Wright, .Jake Cullen
Z_e nze, Anton.
-SS.

ROSTER.

3i9

SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.
· King's City, Monterey County.

•

•

.. .

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Philip Henry, Master,
Wm. Clayton Hamilton, Sen. Deacon,
Walter J. Lumley, Senjor Warden, John Fielding Harboldt, Jun. Deacon,
Harry E. Wetzel, Junior Warden, Frank Harloe Westlake, Marshal,
John Warlock Beam, Treasurer,
John Domianovich, Steward,
Joseph Rice, Secretary,
·
Wm. Madison Branstetter, Steward,
John Whitam, Chaplain,
David Leese, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Robert Ralston, P . M.
Landrum, Joseph McKendric
Beane, John Warlock
Leese, David
Basham, Robert Matteson
Long, Joseph Johnson, Jr.
Besse, John Nelson, P. M.
Lumley, Walter Johnston
Melander, Charles Richard, P. M.
Beebe, Frank Merritt, P. M.
Branstetter, William Madison
Montgomery, Herbert Chester
Brown, James M.
Patter11ori, Alex., P. M.
Bunte, Samuel Nahman
Rapp, Jacob D.
Bunte, Herman Deatrich
Reynolds, Arthur Eugene
Copley, Andrew Jackson
Rice, Joseph
Domianovich, John
Rogers, Robert James
Eaton, Edwin Alex., P. M.
Schroeder, Frederick William
]'riede, William
Stevenson, William Grant, P. M.
Gatee, Frederick Wellings
Sawyer, Charles Waite
Griswold, William
Smith, Percy Hatton
Hedgpeth, William Rufus
Warren, Alfred
Harboldt, John Fielding
Westlake; Frank Harloe, P. M.
Hanning, Charles Albert
Whitam, J:"ohn
Henry, George Philip, P. M.
Wallis, Daniel Whitfield
Hamilton, William Clayton
Wood, William Abraham
Keef, Robert Melvin
Wetzel, Harry Edward
-42.

PORTERVILLE LODGE, No. 303.
Porterville, Tulare• County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday. of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Frederick Ellsworth Bearse, Master, Allen R. Laidlaw, Senior Deacon,
. Nils Baker, Senior Warden, Hugh Templeton, Junior Deacon,
Todd C. Claubes, Junior Warden,
Fred Ward Velie, Marshal,
Wilko Mentz, Treasurer,
Walter Sylvester Shippey, Steward,
Charles H. Claubes, Secretary,
Allan Andrew Leslie, Steward,
Samuel T. Gilliam, Chaplain,
Gustaf Adolf Ekman, 'l'yler.

•
380

•

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Baker, Nils
Lumley, Aubrey Montague
Baker, Swan
Lumley, Gerald Robert
B:;der. 'Philip Murray
McDonald, Robert Henry
Bearss, Frederick Ellsworth
McFarland, Robert West
Bearss, John Theo.
Mcintyre, Thomas
Black, Franklin Ellsworth
McKeany, Edward Montgomery
Bolflng, Charles Thomas
Mentz, Wilko
Boller, Jacob Franklin, P. M.
Mitchell, Mike
Brey, Hiram F., P. M.
Mitchell, Joseph
Brooks, William Herbert
Murphy, George Christopher,.P. M.
Bui:ford, .Marvin Alvah
Murry, George Gordon
Caldwell, Wm. Alex. Franklin
Nesbitt, Charles Wesley
Carle, Charles Joshua
Newbury, Andrew Jackson B.
Clark, Frank
Owen, Levi Milton
Claubes, Charles H.
Pohlman, Louis
Claubes, Todd Cornelius
Price, Thomas Lawrence
Cramer, Moses Lockhart
Putnam, Willie Porter
Davis, Josiah Winter
Robbins, George Lovell
Dinwiddie, James Lockridge, Jr.
Rogers, Carroll Bishop
Ekman, Gustaf Adolf
Schulz, Adolph Gustav, P. M.
Flaugher, John Daulton
Schulz, Harry August, :t-. M.
Frame, Harvey Andrew
Schulz, Lou Ernest
Frankum, George Taylor
Scott, Eugene Louis
Gilbert, Samuel Jonathan R., P. M. Scott, John
Gilliam, Samuel Thompson
Settle, James Pendleton
Grant, William Henry
Shippey, Walt~r Sylvester
Hale, George Hoyl
Stone, Frederick
Hall, James
Sutherland, Bert John
Hathaway, Harry May
Templeton, Hugh
Hayes, James Crayton
'lempleton, John Lee
Henderson, Marion K.
Traeger, Charles Albert
Henderson, Thomas Edwin
Traeger, Henry Godfrey
Hewey, John William Ernest
Van Deusen, Ezra Bullar
Higgins, Charles R~ymond
Velie, Fred Ward, P. M.
Hoover, Joseph Laird
Wessman, John August
Horbach, Robert, P. M.
White, Ernest Nathamel
Hornbeak, Montgomery Adame
White, James Smith
Howell, James
Williams, John Howard
Howell, John Andrew
Williams, Robert George, P. M.
Hughes, Hugh John
Winters, Lewis William
James, John Henry
Woodley, Frank Erwin
Jones, Wiley Franklin
Wright, Hiram Roy
Laidlaw, Allan Rutherford
Wright, Joseph Franklin, P. M.
Lambdin, Harry Willis
Wright, William Whitfield
Landrum, George Bell
Young, William Moore.
Lewis, James Sylvanus
-91.

ROSTER.

381

REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Augustus Hawkins, Master,
Marion Deneen, Senior Warden,
Max W. Beadle, Junior Warden,
Frank E. Osterhout, Treasurer,
Wm. Wesley Green, Secretary,
John Cameron McCubbin, Chaplain,

Arthur Van Acker, Senior Deacon,
John McBriar, Junior Deacon,
Frederick M. Wasgatt, Marshal,
Albett Thomas Bollinger, Steward,
Roswell Beebe Hathaway, Steward,
James Walker Shipe, •ryler.

MEMBERS:

•

...

Acker, Arthur Van
Angel, Linzey C.
Barnes, Charley Leveritte
Beadle, Max W.
·
Black, John Douglas
Blackledge, Lindley Ninde
Bollinger, Albert Thomas
Bollinger, John Franklin
Brown, Major
Bump, Addison Joseph
Chisolm, Joseph Robert
Clarke, William Henry
Coffin, Christian August
Crees, Jacob Daniel
Crossfield, Otto J ohannis
Davies, Walter Young
Deneen, Marion
Dudley, Christopher, P. M.
Feaster, William Alvis
Gebhart, Erastus Manford
Green, William Wesley
Gummow, Charles
Hale, Clarence Alvin
Hathaway, Roswell Rube
Hawkins, George Augu~tus, P. M.
Hawkins, William Lard
Hills, Frederick William
Hills, Arthur Augustus

Lombardi, Julius Caesar
Mathews, Carey Woods
Martin, Ray D.
.McBriar, John
.McClanahan, Allen Ensley
McCubbin, John Cameron
.McDonald, David Chalmer
.McLemore, Calvin Arthur
Moomaw, Joseph Burson
Morgan, Nelson W.
·
Neil, James Polk
Neil, William Rice
Osterhout, Frank Edward
Osterhout, George William
Oulevey, Ernest Eugene
Pugh, John James
Rankine, John
Redd, James Eaton
Reed, Daniel Lyle
Reed, John Rayson
Rhodes, John Livingston
Scoggins, Andrew Jackson
Shipe, James Walker
Simpson, David Calvin
Sowell, William Henry
Thomas, John Neil
Wasgatt, Frederick Marcian
Winnes, Harry Frank
"--56.

3112

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

OFFICERS:
Rolfe Bishop Bidwell, Maf!ter,
Harry S. Johnson, Senior Deacon,
Jasper C. Mathias, Senior Warden, Thomas F. Heth, Junior Deacon,
Chas. Oscar Ream, Junior Warden, John G. Woodward, Marshal,
John William Calvert, Treasurer,
Frank R. Smith, Steward,
Wm. Orlando Streshly, Secretary, Wallace L. Howard, Steward,
Robert S. Ramsaur, Chaplain,
George W. Juden, Tyler.

Hall, Hiram Thomas
Heimbaugh, James Wilson
Heth, Thomas F.
Heth, William W., P. M.
Howard, Wallace Lawton
Huber, Julius Edmund, P. M.
J·ohnson, Harry Sparks
Juden, George Washington
Le Baron, Eugene
Lee, Charles Henry, P. M.
Mace, Edwin
Martens, George, P. M.
Mattatall, Levi Peter
Mathias, Jasper dliester
McNair, William Righten
McNair, Donald Wallace
Metcalfe, James Arthur
Morgan, Don De Witt, P. M.
Moran, George Wallace
Newby, Robert Daniels
Noel, John Thomas
Noel, Charles Lee
Ramsaur, Robert Shuford
Ramsaur, Ben Walker
Ream, Charles Oscar
Richter, Ernest George
Robertson, Benjamin ('olu::nbus
Rogers, Andrew Berry
Rury, William Isaac
Rury, Henry
Sheldon, William Adams, P. M.
Sitton, Jc:ry

-71.

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.
Colton, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

MEMBERS:
Aikman, William
Bernard, Kenneth Lee
Bierbower, Hugh Reed
Briggs, Henry Dwight
Barker, William Thomas
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop
Braddy, William
Burt, Oscar Marshall
Calvert, John William, P. M.
Casey, Ben Shane
Casey, Charles Clark
Clark, Fred Longworth, P. M.
Cole, Winfield Scott
Coffman, Charles Henry
Coulter, Herbert M.
Crane, Edgar Willis
Crickmore, Joseph Clinton
Daly, John E .
Dawson, Robert Wesley, P. M.
Dingman, Frank Lincoln
Dougherty, William Emmet
Ellis, Samuel Augusta, P. M.
Flick, David Thomas
Follows, Ralph Morton
Foot, John Lafayette
Fox, Edward Albert
Fraisher, Claude Melnotte
Fraisher,, William Wash.
Fraisher, Robert Love
Gordon, George Basil
Gordon, Charles Franltlin
Hall, Almon Asa

Weeks, George Warren, P. M.
Wetherby, John Francis
Woodward, John Geoffrey.

Stark, Riney
Smith, Frank Richard
Streshly, William Orlando
Wade, Willard J., P. M. :

Azusa, Los Angeles County.

3e3

George Brenton Caster, M11ster,
Thos. C. Browning, Sen. Warden,
B. H. W. L. Shepley, Jun. Warden,
Chester W. Curtis, Treasurer,
John Bennett Hanna, Secretary,
Isaac Jewell, Cha plain,

•

Frank Russell Warnick, Sen. Deacon,
Eugene Wm. Cosgrove, Jun. Deacon,
·-·······-··----·--·-···········----··-··--·-·-., Marshal,
Wilson Creal Hanna, Steward
Arthur Gilbert Thornton, Steward,
William Frederick Wilber, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

•

Adkins, Thomas Blanton
Andrews, John Jay
Andrews, Samuel Edward
Barmour, Warren
Beach, Wesley Heman
Boalich, George
Bright, Frederick Richard
Brink, Irwin William, P. M.
Browning, 'l'homas Charles
Brooks, Silas Fletcher
Bruce, David Frederick
Bruce, Charles Albert
· Burrall, George Edward, P. M.
Carr, Elijah Goodrich
Caster, George Brinton
Champion, Josepn Austin
Clark, Ward Eastman
Cole, William Deleware
Colvin, Elton Samuel
Cook, Charles Cecil
Cosgrove, Eugene William
Creamer, Edward Franklin
Culross, William Burdick
Curtis, Chester W .
Deakins, Robert Lee

Devlin, Andrew Jackson
Emery Ormiston L.
Fox, Abram Stoner
Franklin, Ruben Henry
Gordon, William Clark
Green, George Matthew, P. M.
Hamerly, John Wash.
Hamelton, Charles Barnes
Hanna, John Bennett, P. M.
Hanna, Wilson Creal
liansen, James William
Hart, Joe Thomas
Hays, Wilson
Hebberd, Walter Channing
Hendee, Thomas Frederick
Higgs, Albert James
Jones, Henry
Johnson, William Curtis
Johnston, Charles Edward
Kirsch, Karl Eugene
Knox, James David
Lancaster, James Wash.
Lash, Frank Gilbert
Lightfoot, Silas Swallow
Lockhart, Thomas Reed

384

ROSTER.

Macdougall, James
Madison, Forest Lamont
Martin, Robert Johnston
Matot, John Ernest, P. M.
Merkley, John Lawrence
Minnick, Albert
Monnet, James Larri~on
Morris, Cramer Bismark
McChane, Alex. Campbell
MeGregor, John
McKinney, John Alex.
McKinney, Edward Cameron
Nauert, Charles
Perrin, William Artemas
Pierce, George Sewell
Pumphrey, William Byron
Purdum, Wade
Ratliff, Milton Sexton
Ripley, Thomas Freed
Robinson, Devillo
Rollins, Henry Harrison
Rutherford, John Dew

ROSTER.

Sharke, John Jack
Shepley, Bertie Halsey Wm. L.
Smith, Howard Burton, P. M.
Smith, Thomas James
Solomon, Meyer
Spring, Adolphus Duane ·
Stone, William Eli
Stone, Byron Andrew
Strong, Donald Watkins
Swartz, Daniel Crist
Swepston, Mayo Bundy.
Thornton, Arthur Gilbert
Toprahanian, Armenague G.
Vogel, Herman Gottleib
Ward, William Gillmore
Warner, Josephus Darby
Warnick, Frank Russel
W etteroth, Frederick
Wilber, William Frederick
Wilcox, Wilson Wallar,e
Wilkerson, Eugene Baker
Wright, Albert
-94.

Chambers, Willie Lee
Coffman, Harry Lee
Conklin, Marvin H.
Dales, Charles Scott
Dales, Edward Verner, P. M.
Dexter, George Byrd, P. M.
Dombrowski, Gottlieb
Daty, George Francis
Dudley, Thomas Horace
Dunham, James Elias, P. M.
Elser, Frederick
Emerson, Edward
Engelbrecht, Henry John
Feather, Marcus D.
Fife, William Wilson
Field, Henry Demetrius
Folsom, Niles Rathbun, P. M.
Gidley, Frank Perry
Gillis, Robert Conran
Gillis, William Templeman, P. M.
Goldman, Isaac St. Clair
Goehring, Herman Franz
Haefner, John
Hamilton, Newell Hiram
Hasse, Carl Edward
Hawes, Albert David
Hostetter, William Margan
Hunt, John Standish
Hunter, John Stuart
Hutton, George Howard
Jackson, Arthur Edmund
Jackson, James Henry
Jamison, Allen Muir
Jenkins, Robert Chesley
Keller, Henry· Workman, P. M.
Kennedy, John
Kennedy, James Wash.
Kimball, Myron Holly
LaBerge, Joseph Rosario
Lehman, August Herman
Lockwood, William Salte

•
SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 307.
Santa Monica, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
· OFFICERS:
Niles Rathbun Folsom, Master,
Earnest 0. Carlisle, Senior Deacon,
Henry J. Engelbrecht, Sen. Warden, Martin E. Balsley, Junior Deacon,
Charles H. Thomas, Jun. Warden,
Henry Alvin Spies, Marshal,
Eugene C. Sheckles, Treasurer,
Perry Horace Webb, Steward,
J·ames Henry Jackson, Secretary,
Bernard Sues, Steward,
John D. H. Browne; Chaplain,
Samuel A. Wheeler, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Balsley, Benjamin Lewis
Balsley, Martin Edgar
Balsley, Ben Randale
Barker, Alvin Perry
Bloye, Herbert Arthur
Boston, Andrew Jackson
BoXJlll, William Louis
Braden, John ·Charles

Brown, Thomas Pollock
Browne, John Davidson H.
Caister, Ephraim Elva
Carlisle, Earnest Otway
Carpenter, Stephen Fisk
Case, Lynn Hess
Case, Samu!ll Hess
Chambers, William Henry

.

386

Lowman, Zacha.riah Henry
McHenry, William A.
McPherson, A. William
Mooser, Leon Nutin
Mooser, Joseph Nathan
Miller, Robert Meek
Oilell, Samuel William
Peak, Emmet Steadman
Peterson, Lauritz Angkjar
Poage, Gratton Elijah
Proctor, John Burton
Pulham, John Alvin
Reynolds, James Walter
Rockwell, Lorenzo Anson, P. M.
Rising, Edward Julius
Schader, Carl Francis
Sheckles, Eugene· Casserley
Smith, John Byron
Smith, Nathan Franklin, P. M.
Spies, Henry Alvin
Steen, Harold
Stewart, Joseph Brown
Summerfield, Kennedy Brown
Sues, Bernard
Sweet, Alonzo Frederick
Sweetzer, Edward Healy
Tanner, Richard Robert
Taylor, James Wesley E.
Thomas, Charles Henry
Tullis, Oliver Grant, P. M.
Vogel, Frank William
Volkman, Martin Henry
Volkman, Martin Francis
Wait, Dudley Munroe
Webb, Henry Horaee
Webb, Perry Horace
Wheeler, Samuel A.
Wilson, Earl Alonzo
Young, Eugene Louis
Zander, William Edward.
-97.

ROSTER.

•

ROSTER.

MONROVIA LODGE, No. 3o8.

Ward, Francis Melville
Wardall, Thomas
Wardall, Ralph Hugh
Wardall, Ray Clifford
Wheeler, Lawrence Ne'!'ton, P. M.

Monrovia., Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ray Clifford Wardall, Sen. Deacon,
Herbert Jos. Thomas, Jun. Deacon,
Eugene Daniel Northup, Marshal,
Pardon Sebastian Woolley, Steward,
Charlie Taylor Renak-er, Steward,
Edward Spence Armetrong, Tyler.

Richard Bates Cowan, Master,
C. C. Bowerman, Senior Warden,
Franklin D. Howell, Jun. Warden,
John Henry Bartle, Treasurer,
James William Harvey, Secretary,
Frank Jay Cornes, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Harvey, James William, P. M.
Anderson, Charles
Armstrong, Edward Spence, P. M. Hawes; Frederick Norman
Hayes, John
Bacon, Williamson Ware
Hinters, Adolph Christian ·
Bardill, John Warren
Hotchkiss, Leonard Edward
Barnes, Leonidas
Howell, ;Franklin Davenport
Barnes, Charles Washi11gton
Ingersoll, Charles Kelly
Barnes, Samuel William
Johnson, Albert Hurlbut
Barth, Otto Frank
Jones, Lester M.
Bartle, John Henry
Knapp, Edward Walter
Bowerman, Clarence Clark
Kramer, Gottlob William
Brooks, William Alden
Lemberger, Arleigh Francesse
Cooper, Victor Roscoe
Macfarlane, Walter
Cornes, Frank J., P. M.
Mendell, George Herchimer
Cowan, Richard Bates, P. M.
Monroe, Campbell Otto
Crandall, Horace E .
Moore, Cassius Fremont
Crandell, John Abner .
Neely, Robert Hugh
Cronenwett, Albert Emanuel
Northup, Eugene Daniel
· Deutsch, Emile
Pinney, Elbert
Dutsch, William Emile
Pottol, Robert
Dunn, John
Powell, George Ernest
Esberger, Max Ernest
Prindle, Edward Manvill
Esberger, Michael Joseph
Reed, John Wallace
Farman, Willis Edward
Reese, Arthur William, P. M.
Fowler, Joseph, P. M.
Renaker, Charlie Taylor
Fowler, Hardiman
Rehrman, Charles
Fulton, Frederick Gans
Sawyer, Reuben Anderson
Gefhart, Bayless Waller
Spence,
William Parker, P. M.
Glenny, Thomas
Spence, Edward Follis, P. M.
Godlove, William Asbury .
Strive, John Harvey, P. M.
Griffith, Ira Jackson
'l'homas, Herbert John
Handley, Damon Carl
Udell, Herbert George
Harris, Jonathan Bentley

387

Whitaker, William Wallace, P. M.
White, Genius
Woolley, John Karl
Woolley, Pardon Sebastian.
-73.

DELANO. LODGE, No. 309.
Delano, Kem County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or n!)xt preceding Full Moon.

• •

OFFICERS:
Henry David Zimmerman, -Master, Benjamin Thomas, Senior Deacon,
·Archibald Sheppard, Sen. Warden, Frank Byron Howard, Jun. Deacon,
Christian Wm. Cline, Jun. Warden, Alex. Sames Kramer, Marshal,
Wm. Lannon Smith, Treasurer,
Ralph Waldo Ammons, Steward,
John Jacob Schlitz, Secretary,
Thomas Abner Robertson, Steward,
Auguste Perrier, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Marcus D.
Ammons, Ralph Waldo
Buchanan, Frank Auguste
Bulock, Arthur Brown
Bonnabel, Jean
Burton, Ebenezer Scott
Cecil, Dan Leander
Cline, Christian William, P. M.
Crangle, John
DeWitt, Asahel Henry
Dorsey, Richard Valentine
Duggi.ns, James Madison
Eustache, Jean Etienne
Faure, Joseph
Faui:e, Peter
Hobart, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Hudson, Julian Wiley

•
•

.

.

Howard, Frank Byron
Kitchen, Charles Edwin
Kramer, Alex. Sames, P. M.
Loose, Herman
Lary, Clyde Clifton
Perrier, Auguste
Ramsay, Ernest Hastings
Sheppard, Archibald
Schlitz, John Jacob, P . M.
Smith, William Lannon
Scruggs, Eldridge Cade Wood
Thomas; Benjamin, P. M.
Thomas, Anthony Harrington
Thomas, Clay Benjamin
Van Valer, Clarence Alpha
Witterow, John Russell
Zimmerman, Henry David, P. M.
~34•

388

. ROSTER.

SISSON LODGE, No. 310.

LOS BANOS LODGE, No. 312.

Sisson, Siskiyou County.

Los Banos, Merced County.

•

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each- month.
OFFICERS:
Joseph L. Painter, Senior Deacon,
Charles Edward Glidd.in, .Master,
Wm. Henry Shebley, Sen. Warden, Daniel W. Rinckel, Junior Deacon,
Oscar Hiram Wood, Jun. Warden, Frank Ball, Marshal,
Eugene Vincent Young, Steward,
John Wesley Rinckel, Treasurer,
Nicholas Muglar, Steward,
John Charles Johnson, Secretary,
John B. Sollner, Tyler.
Hugh B. Andrews, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
McLellim, John Roger
Adams, John Crittendeu
Mugler, Albert
Alexander, Samuel
Myers, George Edward
Andrews, Hugh Blythe
Nichols, Frederick Byron.
Antone, Lee Leon
Neidigh, David M.
Amann, Joseph
Painter, Joseph Lincolu
Ball, Frank
Peterson, Charles D.
Barnes, Willard Francis
Pratt, George Albert
Bartlett, Wailace Coggins
Requa, Ralph Waldo
Barr, Zachary Taylor
Rinckel, David Wesley
Belcher, John Warren
Rinckel, John Wesley
Cass, Frederick Layton
Ross, Henry F .
Craig, Henry Alonzo
Sawyer, Nathan
Culligan, Michael
Sawyer, Jqseph Clark
Deetz, George Lewis
Scholes, George Carl
Durney, James Nathaniel
Schuler, John Martin
Edson, Archie Galen
Shebley, William Henry, P. M.
Farnum, Edmund Truesdell
Shebley, Frank Albert
Fillinger, John William
Sheldon, Darwin Alonzo
Gridley, Wallace Augutltus
Smith, Charles Caswell
Glidden, Charles Edward, P. M.
Smiley, Albert Parah
Green, George L.
Sollner, John B., P. M.
Harvey, James Maurice
Stevens, James, P. M.
Hunt, Eugene William
Sullaway, John William
Hunt, :William Broderick
Taylor, Alex. Stuart
Johnson, John Charles
Tripp, Charles Ammi
Kaiser, Anselm Charles
Weed, Abner
Kaupp, Edward Hepperlen
Wickham, Charles
Knight,. Alton James
Wood, Oscar Hiram, P. M.
Leach, Martin Andrew
Williams, Edward Charles
Libero th, Niles West
Wheeler, Thomas Rattray
Linsley, Carlos Shelton
Wright, Thomas Benton-64.
McKea, John

389

ROSTER.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William M. Wiley, Master,
Wm. Jasper Stockton, Sen. Deacon,
Edward M. Kruger, Sen. Warden, Joseph Flmer Place, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Mason Roberts, Jun. Warden, William Walter Wright, Marshal,
Frederick Bach1e, Treasurer,
Dennis, Allen Leonard, Steward,
Charles Fred 'k Wade, Secretary,
Nicholas Bibby, Steward,
James Mitch~ll, Tyler.

•

.....

•

MEMBERS:
Mitchell, William John
Mitchell, James
Peterson, Fred Johannes J.
Place, Josepn Elmer, P. M.
Reaves, Robert Emmett
Roberts, William Mason
Ryley, Samuel Patil
Salan, Adolphus Henry, P. M.
Schumacher, William Edward
Shaffer, Frederick William
Smith, Burton
Stockton, William Jasper, P. M.
Torchiana, Henry A. Vane., P. M.
Vanderli.p, Albert Maitland
Wade, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Wright, William Walter
Wiley, William Merrett, P. M.

Akard, Joseph Green
Arbios, Henry Bernard
Baehle, Fred
Beaty,. Samuel. Newell, P. M.
Bibby, Nicholas
Clare, Frank
Davenport, William John
Davis, Walter Mortimer
Drummond, John Quincy
Dobrezensky, Joseph
Elder, Charles Glenn
Grunig, Emil
Jameson, William Josiah, P. M.
Kruger, Edward Martin
Lang, William John
Lacy, Joseph
Leonard, Dennis Allen
Leaf, Robert Emmett

~35.

TEHACHAPI LODGE, No. 313.
Tehachapi, Kem County.

..

Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each month.

• •

Peter James McFarlane, Master,
Phil Marx, Senior Deacon,
F. C. Chormicle, Senior Warden,
Julius Durkee Moore, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Heath, Junior Warden,
George Henry Pippitt, Marshal,
Edward J. H. Nicholson, Treasal'el', .Geerge Hastings, Steward,
George T. Van Voorhees, Secy,
Lee Roy Vance, Steward,
Wm. Nicholas Cuddeback, Tyler.

OFFICERS:

390

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

M~MBERS:

Asher, Arthur
McKell, James Robert
Baird, James
McCrea, George W.
Burges, George
McFarlane, Peter James, P. M.
Boden, Louis Frederick
Newell, Daniel Boone
·
Brewster, Charles Lindsey
Nicholson, Edward James H., ~· M.
Belcher, Charles Henry
Osburn, Henry Emmet ·
Chamberlain, Leroy William
O'Hagen, John Walter
Cuddeback, William Nicholas
Pullman, Adolph Arthur
Cavano, William Michael
Pippitt, George Henry, P. M.
Champion, Thomas Evelette
Pentland, Walter Johnson
Chormicle, Franklin Crawford, P.M. Ripley, John
Clark, Samuel Remington
Shackelford, Dick, P. M.
C_o leman, Earl Victor
Shackelford, Rowzee Foster
Centerno, Jules Bruneau
Shackelford, Jesse Bell
Dartt, David James
Shackelford, Marcus Sterling
Denison, Burton Martin
Switzer, Henry Wilmi.ngton
Emery, William Oscar
Smith, Charles Henry
Freeman, John Ban
Seymour, Edward Humphrey
Fletcher, John William
Staley, Abram
Garlock, George Sylvester
Spencer, Patrick William Henry
Garlock, Eugene Truman
Sheridan, John Henry, P. M.
Gray, William Slater
Sutton, William Henry
Grubb, James Coulter
Sperry, Jacob Price
Glenn, James
Scovern, Louis Glanville
Gillespie, Earl Richmond
Strouse, Edward Eugene
Hamilton, Hiram Culbre°th
Tyler, Matthew Hale
Hoxie, Frederick Stickney
Thompson, John Walter
Heath, Charles
Thorne, Walter Francis
Harris, James Erwin
Thayer, Joseph Herriot
Hickey, John Haney
Tournot, Peter, P. M.
Hastings, George
Turner, George Wyman
Jacobs, Herman Manuel
Van Voorhees, Geo. Theron, P. M.
Jenkins, Lenard Truman
Vance, Lee Roy
Kelly, John William
Vance, William Harvey
Krystall, Samuel
Waage, John
Wilson, William Cabaniss
Lovejoy, Arthur Ed
Whistler, William Henry
Macdonald, Reginald Edwin
Moore, Julius Durkee
Young, Austin.
Marx, Phil
-77.

391

TEMESCAL LODGE, No. 314.
Oorona, Riverside Oounty._
Stated Meetings, Tpursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

...

OFFICERS:
Fred Milton Baird, S•mior Deacon,
Charles M. Scoville, Master,
James Lemuel Davis, Sen. Warden, Harry Lynn Lyman, Junior Deacon,
Robert M. Wollitz, Junior Warden, Gustavus Franklin Dean, Marshal,
Thomas P. Drinkwater, Treasurer, George Morgan Austin, Steward,
Silas Russell Byler, Steward,
Albert Polk Kelley," Secretary,
Harry Willis Cathey, Tyler.
William C. Barth, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Larrabee, Arthur Hamilton, P. M.
Alden, Fred Shelton
Lockett, Sterling Wiley
Alderman, Edwin Buckley
Lord, Daniel
Andrews, Linus Lackner
Lyman, Harry Lynn
Austin, George Morgan
Main, Charles William
Baer, George Nickey
Mayer, Michael Joseph
Baird, Fred Milton
Mayfield, .James Smith
Barber, Rio Delos
McCarty, George Albert
Barth, William Christian, P. M.
McGillivary, George Brown
Brown, George, P. M.
McVicar, William Gray
Brown, David Rowland
Patton, Luther
Bloom, Samuel Lincoln
Perkins, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Byler, Silas .Russell
Perry, William Franklin
Chaney, Joseph Wesley, P. M.
Prizer, Henry Anson
Clayson, Marshal Emery
Randall, Cecil Byron
Cross, Alvin Harvey
Riddell, William
Cathey, Harry Willis
Seares, Isaac Newton
Davis, James Lemuel
Scoville, Frank, P. M.
Dean, Gustavus Franklin, P. M.
Scoville, Charles Median, P. M.
Drinkwater, Thomas Paine
Scoville, Harry Frank
Dyer, Frank.John
Trepening, Mason, P. M.
Freeman, George Robert
Glass, John Dennen
'!.'hacker, George Scott
Tilson; Walter Nathaniel
Gleason, Clifford Velovrous
Triolo, John Patrick
Grinnell, James William
Tuthill, Arthur Brewster
Gully, Cuthbert
Vankirk, George Wesley
Hammer, John Thomas
Veach, Andrew
Harter, Elam
Willard, Stephen Sylvester
Holmes, Henry Harrison
Wood, Albert Clark
Howard, John Murray
Wollitz, Robert Max
Hyde, John Church
Wyatt, Charles Frederick
Kelley, Albert Polk
White, Arthur Burr-64.
Kidder, Ethan Pier
0

•

• •

•
ROSTER.

ROSTER.

392

NORWALK LODGE, No. 315.
Norwalk, Los Angeles County.
Stated .Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Alphons Edward Dressen, Master,
Simon Newbauer, Senior Deacon,
John Joseph Orr, Senior Warden,
Jahn H. Bollinger, Junior Deacon,
Frank P. Sproul, Junior Warden,
Nicholas Henry Hughes, Marshal,
Darius David Johnston, Treasurer, William Charles Sproul, Steward,
Jacob Swigart, Secretary,'
Andrew D. Budbeer, Steward,
Harrison K. Custer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baker, John Samuel
Branch, John Franklin
Budbeer, Andrew B.
Burrows, Herbert Gates
Clark, James Clark
Custer, Harrison K.
Couchman, Harry Hawver
Deering, Richard Sanford
Duncan, Charles Wilson; P. M.
Duncan, Garnett
Donnell, William Wendell
Dillman, Thomas Milton
Dressen, Alphonso Edward, P. M.
DeLong, James William
De Witt, Almond Dor
Eliot, James Smith, P. M.
Emery, Charles
Fraser, Alex. Isaak
Grover, John Franklin

Hay, James, P. M.
Hughes, Nicolas Henry
Hughes, Harley
Johnston, Darius David
Lumbard; Albert Dor
McCaric, Franklin
Mason, Charles Cole
Orr, James Robert
Orr, John Joseph
Orr, Charles Ali~stus
Petty, William Robert
Rodgers, Charles
Randall, .Wallace
Ray, Thomas Allen
Sproul, Frank Preston
Sproul, William Charles
Sollinger, John Htnry
Swigart, Jacob
Weise, Charles Arthur-38.

•

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.

Andrus, William Frank
Anderson, John Adolph
Baird, ·Edward Ellsworth
Bosserman, Robert Lee
Ballard, Bu_rton Joseph
Ballard, Louis ·Morgan
Ballard, Joseph Fain
Brown, Percy Whitmore
Burns, Miles Francis
Budworth, George Thomas
Burnett, Robert B.
Brehler, Oscar A.
Bradshaw, John
Coblentz, George Samuel
Carlton,· Thomas Franklin
(Jarlton, William David
Cavanah, John Crump
Clay,- William Robert
Dirvin, Henry
Dewey, Edward Porter
Depew, William Brenning
Dennis, Nelson, P. ]!II •
Elmore, Benjamin Thomas
Evinger, Daniel R.
Fleining, Luther Parker
Faller, Peter
Field, Andera Thorwaldsen
Hamilton, Andrew
Hagen, Andrew C.
Hayward, Orie, P. M.
Harlem, Louis
Ingram, Charles Ray
Jones, I ven Henry
Kutner, Alfred

MEMBERS :
Klepper, Henry Clay
Lang, Carl Adam
Lang, Charles William
Lisle, John Newton
Meaves, Carl Henry
Manley, George Penfield, P. M.
Messer, Harry F.
Mitchell, Harry Chandler
McLaughlin, Lee, P. M.
McGee, James Henry
Norman, Louis Vernon
Neeley, Herbert William
Nelson, James Peter
Price, Joseph Dodd
.PadJln, Robert J.
Pressley, John Brockinton
Patterson, John Alex.
Rogers, David Thompson
Rock, George Mitchell
Rosenberger, John Ashley
Radley, William
Swank, William Ellwood
Taylor; Leroy, P. M.
Tackaberry, Benjamin Franklin
Turner, John Labon
Weldon, Abraham James
Wilson, Henry Scott
Walton, Charles Perry
Walton, William Albert
Wheeler, Barton James
Woodside, Robert Clifton
West, Philander Nathan
Zink, Henry Joseph

Sanger, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Peter Faller, Master,
John Newton Lisle, Senior Deacon,
John B. Pressley, Senior Warden,
Robert L. Bosserman, Junior Deacon,
Edward E. Baird, Junior Warden, William Ellwood Swank, Marshal,
James Peter Nelson, Treasurer,
Edward Porter Dewey, Steward,
George Samuel Coblentz, Secretary, George Penfield Manly, Steward,
John Alex.--Patterson, Tyler.

F ALLBROOK LODGE, No. 317.

•

Fallbrook, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

398

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

394

Butler, George
Belt, Henry Morrow
Bell, Alonzo Mandeville
Crane, William E.
Clark, Almond James, P. M.
Chapman, Etna Gaston
Day, Frank Richard
Fickas, Jesse Tingle
Giddens, Levi. Cornelius
Hall, Wilbert Nathan
Johnson, Percy Alex., P. M.
Martin, Joseph George
Meredith, Charles Theiss

Moulton, Montgomery McD., P. M.
Magee, Victor Miguel
McCarty, Thomas
Neff, Millard Fillmore
Ross, Albert, P. M.
Russell, Allen J.
Reader, Edward Charles
Smith, Thomas
Salmons, Frank E.
Treat, Thomas Robert
Westfall, George Franklin
Woodbury, Bert
White, Edgar Curtin-26.

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319.
Lo3 Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, First Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank Handy Brooks, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Alonzo Talbot, Master,
Joseph A. Smith, Senior Warden, . Benjamin N. Powers, Junior Deacon,
Winfred J. Sanborn, Jun. Warden, Edward Robert Gregory, Marshal,
Lewis August Hauser, Steward,
'Peter Johnson, Treasurer,
Robert Benjamin, Steward,
John William Dick, Secretary,
George R. Ellis, Tyler.
John M. Dunsmoor, Chaplain,

EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318.
Biggs, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.
MEMBERS:
Archambault, Frank Edward
Ivy, Martin Filmore
Beal, John
Ishel, George Frederick
Bervillier, Jean Nicholas
Johnson, John Alfred
Bink, Henry Seine
Jones, James Richard
Boyd, James Sankie
Keller, Joseph Pyle
Burchett, William
La Point, Moses, P. M.
Cleveland, William Mayo
La Point, Leroy Anson
Cohn, Harry, P. M.
Lawrence, Philip Edward
Camp, Albert Edward
Luper, John Franklin
Caldwell, Buchanan
McGill, James Helm, P. M.
Craig, Tnomas Franklin
McKee, Matthew
Doty, Lymon William
Nelaon, .William Oscar, P. M.
Doty, William Mark
Nelson, Joel Moore
Demmer, Matthews
Riddle, William R. .
Fox, Henry
Rutland, James Bell
Hammon, Wendell Philucius, P. M. Smith, Gilman Kendall
Hawkins, Orwin Cullen, P. M.
Stoudt, Aaron F.
Huffaker, E.
Stansell, Fred Richard

Washburn, Arnold Oliver
Watson, Franklin Haskell, P. M.
White, William Edwin
Washburn, Calvin Uriah
Walker, William Edwin
-47.

Stout, George Homer
Spencer, Franklin Eugene
Shippee, Watson Allen
Woodruff, Andrew Moore
White, Walter Herbert
White, Emmons

MEMBERS:

395

•

MEMBERS:
Bell, Robson Orde
Bell, Otis Freeman
Bennedict, Charles E.
Benjamin, Robert
Bethune, James Ni;ils
Binford, Henry Mettaur
Blair, Paul Laughridge
Blanchard, Everett Loring
Bliesner, William John
Borden, Admiral Faragut
Bostwick, Edward Everett
Botsford, Frank Leroy
Boyer, Richard Peter
Bradley, Frank L.
Bremer, William Alinos
Bresee, Melvin Arthur
Bresee, Phineas Wright
Brooks, Frank Handy
Brown, Andrew McCormack
Browning, Daniel Rawlins, P. M.
Bulpin, Thomas W.
Burns, Robert Wallace
Butterworth, E dward Summas

Adams, Horace Bishop, p. M.
Alexander, Daniel Potter
Allin, Ernest
Anderson, Charles Edward
A ugustJfs, Edward Hikes, P. M.
Bacon,11\valter Romayne
Bacon, George
Bagley, Charles Leland
Bannister, George Lucas
Bancroft, George Hess
Barnes, Charles Adams
Barnes, Thomas Finley
Barber, David Cassett
Barker, Edward Lawton
Barth, Theodore Adam
Batcheller, Charles Lucian, P. M.
Beaumont, Frank Carroll
Becher, Max Albert
Beede, John Wallace
Behymer, Luden Ellsworth
Behrendt, Sam
Behrendt, Leon
Bell, James Ge.orge

..
396
Cady, Freeman Risley
Campbell, George W.
Carr, Robert Jay
Carter, Henry Edwin
Carter, John Asher
Casey, Charles Booth
Chapman, John Slater
Charlton, Chas. Augustus, P. M.
Christy, Adison Barton
Clampett, Edward Anth:>ny
Clampett, Don L.
Cobb, Jesse Stanley
Cochrane, .Malcomb
Cohn, James "B.
Cohn, Abraham B.
Cohn, Maurice
Condley, Darrell
Conart, 01lorge Washington
Coo.1i:e, Charles Prentice
Cowan, John
Cox, William Leonard
Craig, Charles Carpenter
Crail, James
De Grau, Austin Van Buren
.Densmore, Edwin
Derby, Charles Ferdinand
Dessery, Victor
Dessery, Alfred Bonney
Dibble, Horace B.
Dick, John William
Dillingham, Frank Stinson
Dodge, William
Du Casse, Eugene Leon
Dunsmour, John Marcus, P. M.
. Dunsmour, Robert Morris
Egar; Charles Lucius
Eddy, Nelimn Butler
Edwards, Herbert Llewellyn
Ellis, George Reed
Ellis, Capen
Elliott, Milo D.
Elwell, James Frank
Fallis, Garland Prentice
Fechyew, Benjamin Reader
Ferguson, George, P. M.
Ferris, Horace Bayles

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Filz, Frank Jacob
Fitzgerald, Wallace Andrew
Follmer, Raymond Irving
Ford, George Jackson Parker
Foree, Thomas F.
Forrester, Arthur Walter
French, Charles Edward
~ost, Harry Willis
Fuller, Harry Ripley
Galbreath, Ross Morgan
Garnier, Ralph Lee
Garrett, Louis Russer
Garritt, Edward Hewett
Garvin, Charles Louis
Gibbs, William Francis
Gibson, William S.
ttil_more, Arthur Freeman
Gill, Robson Osborn
Glass, John Alex.
Goshorn, Archie Treburtis
Graham, Willfo.m H.
Graf, Albert Frederick
Gregory, Edmund Robert
Gregory, Brinton Blake
Grohs; John Philipp
Grubb, Stephen Leander
Haines, Frank Knickerbocker
Hall, Orin Austin
Hammel, William Augustus, P. M.
Hampton; Thomas Welch
Harrison, John
Hauser, Lewis August
Hauser, Julius
Heartt, Burton Elmer
Hendrick, James Wesley, P. M.
Henkle, Byron
Henshey, Benjamin Botsford
Hesse, Charles
Hesselberger, Milton
Hiller, Edgar Dewey
Hillebrand Frank Joseph
Hollenbeck, Edward Henry
Rowell, John Graham
Holt, James Erle
Huggins, Flernoy Walker
Irvin, Edward Samuel

••

..

Ingersoll, Ralph William
Jacobi, Louis
Jameson, Alvah Lee
Johnson, Harry G., P. M.
Johnson, Peter
Johnson, Edward Purnell
Johnson, Charles Gar
Jones, Herbert Clinton
Jones, Robert Curtis
Jones, Arthur
Jordon, Robert Collins
Keefe, Thomas Francis
Kennedy, Louis Henry
Kennedy, Leneaus Ra v
Kingsbury, William Stl'phcns
Kirshner, Emile
Kister, Hannie Julius
Klein, Henry
Knighten, William Ammon
Knox, Harry Clifton
LaBerge, Frank Edward
Lambourn, Frederick
Larronde, John Martin
Lawton, Joseph
Layng, John Rose
Lackner, Charles Henry
Leix, Frederick, P. M.
Leland, Harry Jasen
Lenz, Edmund Henry Carl
Levering, Martin Murry
Lewis, John James
Lofthouse, Charles Pendleton
Logan, Charles Lincoln
Loomis, Lester Grant
Mackay, Roderick
Madoery, Carl Wilhelm Arnold
· Magee, Robert
Mahone, Charles B.
Masters, John Henry
Maynard, Rea Edward
Marshall, Frank Thomas
McCartney, Herbert Swift G.
McCarty, Walter George
McCarty, William Herbert
McConnell, Henry Elmer
McColl, John

McCullough, Ray
:McCullough, John Anderson
McDaniel, Frank Marion
McLean, John
McKay, John Patton
McNeil, James Elliott
McKeeby, George Lemuel
Merrick, Joseph Adrian
Meserve, Edwin Alvin
Millette, Charles Joseph
Miller, Clarence Webster
Miller, Jacob A.
·Miller, George Lee
Mitchell, Irving Jefferson
Mollohan, George Risley
.Moore, Albert William
Morgan, Octavious
Morro, August Edward
Morrison, Norman Holt
Motb:am, John Henry Harper
Murphey, Clare Warren
Neuner, Sidney Martin, P. M.
Newkirk, Adamson Bertley
Newman, Toby
Noble, William Clarence Hayes
Norris, James Franklin
Norton, Isiack F.
Nye, Charles Isaac
Orvis, Joseph Lander
Owen, Ira Lloyd
Pallette, Edward M.
Park, Frank Leon
Parker, Chrisman Hai:rison
Parker, George Hampshire
Penfield, Archibald Robertson
Perham, Charles Edward
Perssan, Thelin Alexius
Plank, Charles David
Plath, Emil Ludwig
Pontious, Marion Francis
Post, John Cambel
Potts, Amos Harry
Powers, Edward Everett
Powers, Levi Osgooa
Powers, Benjamin Nelson
Priddy, Courtland

397

.
ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Priwer, Aaron
Quackenbush, Richard Orris
Quint, Sumner Joseph·
Reavis, William Everett
Reed, Parker Clarke
Rees, Samuel
Rees, Walter Bert
Rech, John Nicholas Ossacar
Rhemchild, George
Rice, Jo)m Garland
Rising, Franklin Edward
Robbins, Herbert Warren
Robinson, Oliver Raymond Wade
Robertson, William Campbell
Rodgers; James Frederick
Rogers, Read Wyman
Rogers, William
Rosenfelt, Benjamin Franklin
Roth, Lewis Frederick
Ruddy, William
Runkle, Frederick William
Sadler, Rupert John
Sanborn, Winfield Joseph
Sanborn, Charles Henry
Schee, Walter Scott
Schmidt, Frederick Wm. Theo.
Schmidt, Oscar Emile
Schwaebe, Lewis H.
Schreiber, William George
Sen tous, Frank Peter
Sessions, Nathan Paine
Sexton, Charles Wesley
Sexton, Charles Loyal
Shaffer, Robert Kennedy
Shanks, Colin
Sharpe, Frederick Henry
Sherwin, Edward Underwood
Shearer, William Dixon
Shrader, William Wallace, Jr.
Shulthies, Henry
Sisler, Samuel
Bittle, Albert Casper
Smith, William albert
Smith, Joseph Augustus
Smith, Zena Bruce
Smith, Charles Fuller

Smith, Frederick Augustus
Sook, Henry Sylvanius
Spreng, Charles Gottfried
Spreng, Frederick Charles
Stamm, Julius George
Stearns, James Bert
Stearns, William Henry
Steddom, Francis White
Stevens, Thomas John
Stevenson, Andrew William
Stickney, William Adelbert
Strohm, Louis Robert
Sturgeon, Phineas Boyd
Summerfield, John Wyatt
Talbot, Edward Alonzo
'1·aylor, Raymond G.
Taylor, Edgar C.
Teale, Frederick Joseph
Teetzel, Fred William
Thomas, Winfield Corwin
Thomas, Frederick Smethurst
Thompson, Thomas
'l'hompson, .Frank Theo.
'l'hompson, Richard
Thompson, Paul
Thompson, William Edward
Thompson, Edward H.
Thornton, William Crane
'.rrainor, Charles August
Trimble, Henry Bassett
True, Herbert Fred
Uber, William Robert
Varey, Harry Louis
Vanderbeck, Lester John
Variel, William James
Vestal, John Everett
Vetter, Louis Fisher
Vincent, Fred Ezekiel
Walters, Alfred Eugene
Walton, William Ransom
'W ambold, Edward Howard
Warclling, George Benjamin
,,·arcl, William Henry
Warren, Hugh Mead
WEibster, James William
Weisenberger, Julius

Wetzel, Edwin Charles
Wheeler, Ferdinand
White, Myers Taylor
Wilkey, Arthur Septimus
Wirshing, Robert Ernest ·
Willard, Cyru!J
Wilson, Silas A.
Wohefarth, August
Wood, Thompson

399

Woodis, Warren Albert
Woolsey'; John Grant
Workman, William Henry
Workman, Boyle
Wylie, John Perry
Young, Charles Franklin, P. M.
You;ngworth, Leo Valtus, P. M.
Zimmerman, Roy Elden.
-339.

SOUTH GATE LODGE, No. 320.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John William Kemp, Master,
Kearney L. Wilcox, Senior Warden,
Wm. Winters Tritt, Jun. Warden,
Willis H. Routzahn, Treasurer,
Frank Harrison White, Secretary,
Foster C. Austin, Chaplain,

Everett A. Messerly, Senior Deacon,
Frederick J. Leary, Junior Deacon,
Richard Louis Phister, Marshal,
Frank Chester Collier, Steward,
Charles Alvin Sweet, Steward,
Isaac D. Stine, Tyle:r.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Chester Lowell
Alexander, George
Alford, Chauncey Higley
Allen, Albert A., P. M.
Anderson, Charles John
Armstrong, Arnold
Arnold, Emmer Bowman
Arnold, Frank Norman
Austin, Foster Calhoun, P. M.
Bailey, Ralph Waldo
Baldwin, Cornelius Joseph
Banks, Walter Charlton
Barber, Jay Burdette
Barrett, Frederick
Bartlett, Cornelius
Bartlett, Oswald
Battle, James Whittle
Bell, Edgar Newton
Bellringer, Edward Aub:rey
Bettinger, Marcus Clark

Bevis, James Elijah
Beyrle, Robert
Biles, Elmer Ellsworth
Binz, Edward Gabriel
Bird, Arthur Milton
Blake, Benjamin Howard
Bluff, Charles George
Bonynge, William Alfred
Boyd, Walter Leigh
Bradley, William
Brisco, John
Bronson, Marenus Alonzo
Brooks,F:rank Cery
Brooks, James Marion
Brooks, William Drew
Buekingham, William James
Bulfinch, Stephen Amos
Bull, .Robert Wilcox
Butterworth, Albert Stanton
Caldwell, John Alex.

400
Cameron, Allen Wilbur
Campbell, John Bartholomew
Carlson, Milton
Carpenter, John Malines
Carter, Harry Von
Cash, Charles DeAlton
Castrucci9, Benedict
Chesley, Benjamin Millard
Christin, Leo StaHow
Clark, Lincoln
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
Codrick, Thomas Ulysses
Collier, Frank Chester
Conklin, Lewis Henry
Cook, Benjamin Augustus
Coon, Willard Alden, P. M.
Cooper, William Adelbert
Copeland, Atwood Reynolds
Costerisan, George Felix
Coumbe, Alfred John
Cox, John Randolph
Cramer, William Henry
Cribb, James Coburn
Crippen, Ellery Hicks
Criswell, Ralph Luther
Crook, Delbert Henry
Cross, William S.
Davey, William Edward
Davis, Francis Edward
Davis, Hugh Clinton
DeBerry, Angus Jasher
Dennis, William Riley
Devendorf, Fred Clark
Dill, Robie Everett, P. M.
Drake, Frank Norton
Ducasse, Peter Leon
Duncan, John
Dunn, Arvine Spencer
Dunn, Frederick William, P. M.
Durard, George Felix
Dusoe, Robert Moses
Eader, Lewis William
Earll, JaIPeS Cornelius
Eastman, DeBarrett
Eby, John Leonard
Eecleston, Joseph William

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Ehlers, Peter William·
Ellis, Edward Stephen
Ellis, Isaac Newton, P. M.
Ensign, Frank C.
Espe, Frederick · ·
Evans, Thomas Jerome
Falkenstein, Harry :Li•
·Faris, William Adam
Farmer, Jasper
Fennessy, Thomas Downey
Fiano, Ariotide Philip
Fleming, Thomas J .efferson
Follows, John
Foster, Edward Clarence
Fox, Edward William
Francisco, Andrew Wiggins
Franklin, James Breckenridge
Frost, Arba - Wright
Fuller, George
.. Gardner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Gaynor, William Henry, P. M.
George, Leb X,
Gerson, Edward
Giambastiani, Francisco
Gibbs, Charles Alfred
Gifford, Clarence May .
Gillett, Fred James
Girdlestone, Charles Henry
Glover, Percy Carson
Gooding, Henry Clay
Graham, William Newton
Gray, Alex, P. M.
Greene, Alex. McDonald
Groff, Charlie Addison
Hale, Robert
Hale, Robert, Jr.
Hall, John Allen
Hahn, Philip, P. M.
Hamilton, George Reed
Hampe, George Solomon
Harris, Leonidas Rosseau
Harris, Samuel
Hart, Dwight Howard
Hart, George Alandson, P. M.
Hastreiter, Rolland Frederick
Hayes, John
.

Hazen, Robert Lee
Heaton, Charles Page
Hefferman, William Thomas
Henderson, Frank Gilbert
Hitchcock, William Wesley
Hoffman, Winnie Eugene
Homann, Emil
Hopperstead, Eric Warren
Horton, Rufus Landon
Howe, George Edward
Husted, '.rhomas Seymour
Jackson, Harold Frederi~k D 'A.
Jepson, Carl George
Johnson, Carl Reed
Johnson, Franklin
Johnson, Victor Andrew
Jones, George Wiley
Jones, John Jacob
h..elsey, Frank Meeker
Kemp, John William
Kerr, Thomas William
Kilner, William Henry li.
Kinney, Burt Ornon
Kistler, Samuel Lee
Koll, August Juergen
Kolp, William
Lamb, Stacey Caldwell
Lamb, Theo. Pusey
Lang, Frederick Selwyn
Lander, Benjamin Stewart
Lanterman, Frank Dexter
Larkin, Albert Henry
Leary, Frederick James
Leck, W:illiam Frederick
Lewis, Eugene Arnold
Lickley, Erne.st Jam0'3on
Lidgerwood, George Irving
Lindsay, Jasper
Little, Frederick Eugene
Lloyd, Charles
Lloyd, Edward
Longo, Ignacio
Losekamp, -Gustave Willard
Lovelace, Archibald Manuel
Lubin, Benjamin
MacWilliams, Glen
26

401

Maitre, Charles Joseph
Margrander, Frederick Oswald
Marsh, Charles Page
Martin, Frederick Herbert
Martindale, Walter W.
Mathis, Elbert Nelson
Mathis, John Anthony
Matthay, Ferdinand Louis
Mays, Terry
McAllister, Frank Alliste1
M;cAllister, James Pinkerton, P. M.
McAlpine, David Johnson
McBride, Harper Ellsworth
McClure, Alfred
McCollum, Frank Elwin
McConnell, Lee Alene
McCulley, William Bissell
McDonald, Frank
McDonald, Norman
McFee, William Hamilton
McGilliard, Gideon Delosa, P. M.
McGinty, William Gipson
McKay, William
McKeon, C. Roy
McKeon, Harry
McKinley, James Welford
McNeeley, Thomas Berry
Meek, William
Meiklejohn, Matthew Caldwell
Messerly, Everett Alpheus
Mendell, Asa Yoemans
Milburn, Thomas Smedley
Miller, Henry
Miller, Robert Warren
Miller, Thomas Kirkpatrick
Moorhead, George Bonynge
Morganstern, Alfred J.
Morin, Samuel Williamson
Morlan, Joseph Alvie
Morse, Henry Clay
Morton, Clyde Walter
Moss, Leon Fremont
Muller, Frederick Frank
Musselman, John William, P. M.
Nadeau, Hubert
Nelgner, Richard Albert

402
Newell, John J.
Noble, Ivory Bean
Odemar, Fritz
Ourfalian, Paul Larkis
Palmer, Amos Lorenzo
Parke, Elbert Taylor, P. M.
Parke, Oliver Hazard P., P. M
Parker, Charles Frederick
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Robert
Parsons, Alfred · Harry
Pauly, Julius
Payne, Rottham Kenner
Peterson, Frederick Erskine
Pepe, Fernando
Perry, Arthur St. Clair
Pessell, George Douglas
Pfaff, William Henry
Philp, Harry Grafton Rowe
Phister, Richard Louis
Pike, Charles
Pitblado, James Bruce
Porter, William Sterling
Potter, Bernard
Preston, Jasper Newton
Pritchard, Stephen Lacy, P. M.
Prosser, Albert John
Quiggins, James Allen
Quitzow, Charles
Rank, Isaac Elliott
Rankin, William John, P. M.
Rannells, John William
Rebman, John
Reed, Charles Joseph
Reel, Peter Alex.
Rice, James Edward
Riggle, Elmer Willis
Robinson, Clarence Curtenius
Roeder, Frederick
Roeder, Karl, Jr.
Rohde, Charles Julius
Rose, Louis Carl
Roth, August
Routzahn, Willis Harsey
Salyer, Charles Alfred
Salyer, Alfred Mark

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Salyer, Frank Hamilton
Sanders, George Leon
Saunders, William Seymour
Schmalzried, Edward
Schmitz, John
Schrader, Gustave
Scott, Arthur Morsemau •
Sentous, Camille
Shafer, Charles Franklin
Shaw, William Herbert
Sheets, Sylvester Newton
Siefert, John W.
Singleton, James William, P. M.
Smith, David Holmes
Smith, ·Herbert Lee
Smith, Robert Jefferson
Smith, Robert Pendleton
Smith, Samuel Barnes
Sprague, James Wesley
Sprague, William Brown
Stansbury, Charles Vivian
Staples, Charles Robert
Steckel, George
Stewart, John Taylor
Stine, Isaac D.
Stocking, Clyde Henry
Stone, William Harry
Summers, Alexis Charles
Summers, Samuel Lee
Swank, Wiley
Sweet, Charles Alvin
Sydow, Ernest Robert
Taylor, Charles Russell
Thirkell, William Russell
Thompson, Charles Santford
Thomson, Archibald J:'ercival
Todd, Ulysses Samuel G'., P. M.
Tritt, William Winter~
Tubman, William
Tucker, James Peter
Udell, Charles Arthur
Unwin, Edward George Oxford
\! alentine, Louis Hulett
Valiant, ·Frank Doble
Valiant, Harry Alfred
Van Alstyne, George Warren

Van Cleve, Rae Gird
"Van Norman, Harvey Arthur
Van Norman, James Linn
Wagner, Daniel Arthur
Waller, Perry Jay
Walsh, Frank Edward
Walters, William Thomas
Ware, John Francis
Watson, John William
Webb, Charles Marion
Weber, John
Weiser, Abraham Grant
Welch, Charles Emory
Welch, William Ormond
Wellborn, Charles
Wells, Charles Jedidiah

403

W erdin, Ernest Rudolph
White, Frank Harrison
White, Robert
Whitney,- Grant Ulysses
Wickersham, Daniel Ross
Wickstrom, Eric Gustave
Wilcox, Kearney Lee
Wilcut, John Alfred
Wilkinson, Thomas Bertrand
Williams, Charles Allen, P. M.
Winnett, Percy Glen
Wolf, Frank Charles, P. M.
Wood, George Henry
Workman, Robert Ferguson
Young, Walton
Young, William, P. M.-348.

ALISAL LODGE, No.

321.

Pleasanton, · Alameda County.

.. ..
~

..

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Henry Cope, Master,
Louis C. Walter, Senior Deacon,
Samuel J. Wells, Sel).ior Warden,
Thomas H. Silver, Junior Deacon,
Clarence E. Mayo, Junior Warden, Daniel Bryan, Marshal,
Edward L. Benedict, Treasurer,
John Herman Schween, Steward,
John T. Haley, Secretary,
Herman William Albrecht, Steward,
Hans Christian Therkelsen, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Albrecht, Herman William
Haley, John Tad
Hall, Ernest Edwin, P. M.
Apperson, Elbert Clark
Hall, Fred James
Benedict, Edward Lewis
Bonde, Hans Peter
Harris, Thomas William, P. M.
Bryan, Daniel
Harris, William
Chadbourne, Henry Pierce, P. M.
Hedemark, John Christian
Hitchcock, Jess
Colestock, Logan Alfred
Johnston, George
Cope, William Henry, P. M.
Crellin, Charles Louis
Jury, Riley
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Mayo, Clarence Earl
Dall, Christian Hansen
Mohr, Henry Paul, P. M.
Ellis, Robert
Nagel, Frederick Henry
.l''eusier, Henry Edward C.
Peterson, Antone Iversen
mu, James s.
Richards, George Henry

ROSTER.
Saunders, Joseph W.
Schween, John Herman
Schween, Walter James
Schween, William Frederick·
Silver, Thomas Homo
Sinclair, Hugh Arnold

ROSTER.

Therkelsen, Hans Christian
Thorup, Peder Christian
Walter, Louis Christian, P. M.
Weilbye, Julius Lars
Wille, Samuel Jenkins .
-39.

•

ALHAMBRA LODGE, No. 322.
Alhambra, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Wm. Moulton Northrup, Master,
Wm. Metzger Meeker, Sen. Deacon,
Henry John Olson, Sen. Warden,
Edward Lingenfelder, Jun. DeacoA,
M. U. Butterbaugh, Jun. Warden,
.......... , Marshal,
. . . . . . . . . . , Steward,
Hans Olson, Treasurer,
Albert Adams Clapp, becretary,
.......... , Steward,
Henry Eugene Lawrence, Chaplain,
.......... , Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ferguson, Edward Paul
Bailey, Charles Alden
Fortney, George Washington
Bailey, Elmer Ellsworth
Gray, Francis Edward
Behlow, Robert Roscoe
Hanly, George Thomas
Behlow, Irwin Wesley Merritt
Hanscome, Henry Irving, P. M.
Biddle, George Arthur
Hawkins, Arthur George
Borden, Gail
Holt, Thomas Elijah E.
Bronaugh, Charles Augustus
Hoover, David Elwood
Bronaugh, Daniel Dodge
Johnson, Milbank
Bullis, Sherman Allen, P. M.
Butterbaugh, Melvin Ulysses
Johnston, Rufus
Cartwright, Benj. Brooks, P. M.
Lawrence, Henry Eugene, P. M.
Lee, Stewart
Cl!.arles, Merrill Stull
Liddell, Van Ranssalier
Clapp, Albert Adams
Clapp, Ralph Bissell, P. M.
Lloyd, William Frazier
Lord, Thomas Newton
Clapp, Randall Coming
March, Daniel W ebster
Clover, Samuel Travers
McDonald, Henry Dalton
Clark, Paul Hipolit
Cohen, Benjamin
McDonough, James
Messenger, John
Corey, Francis Edwin
Creamer, Jamee Montgomery, P. M. Meeker, William Metzger
Miles, Harry Storrs
Crow, Samuel Dickinson
Mulock, Daniel' Connolly
Cumming, John Albert
Musselman, Charles Wilfred
Drake, Samuel Ambrose
Myers, John Albert
English, Manon Columbus

Northrup, William Moulton
Olson, Hans
Olson, Henry John
Porter, John Clinton ·
Powell, Lewis Smallwood
Rich, James Jasper, P. M.
Robinson, Thomas Wilfred
Sorenson, Neal, P. M.
Stanton, Edmund WooJ
Stevens, William Oliver
Stone, Fred George

Stuart, Edward Brookbank, P. M.
Stuart, Thomas Jefferson
Thompson, Newton Warner, P. M.
Van Hagen, Fred
Ware, Henry Peace
Wheat, Charles Albert
Wickerd, Homer Merritt
Willard, Frank Stansbury
Witherbee, Orville O., P. M.
Wuest, Samuel Franklin
---69.

WHITTIER LODGE, No. 323.
Whittier, Los Angeles County.

. '
•••

..
•

405

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon .
OFFICERS:
Frank Centennial Owens, Maste.r,
Donald LeRoy Crane, Sen. Deacon,
Jerome Frank Powers, Ben. Warden, C. Clifton Buffington, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur Jerome West, Jun. Warden, Robert Bruce Way, Marshal,
John Henry Gwinn, Treasurer,
Irving Lewis Blinn, Steward
Ed';in Hiscuft Payne, Secretary,
Frank D. Miller, Steward, '
Christmas Stephen Evans, Chaplain, Lewis Johnson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, William George
Crane, Donald Leroy
Allen, Milo, P. M.
Clabaugh, Adam Grant
Arfwedson, Carl Edward
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Sr.
Barnes, Wilbert Edwin
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.
Bauer, Lewis Jacob
Dahlitz, Paul
Blinn, Irving Lewis
Davis, James William
Buck, John Henry
Davidson, Lewis Halberton
Butterfield, Edward C.larence, P. M. Ellis, Nathan D., P. M.
Butman, John S.
Edeburn, Edward B.
Butler, Stephen
Evans, John W. ·
Burke, Edwin Alonzo
Evans, Christmas Stephen
Buffington, Charles Clifton
Essley, Edgar L.
Cox, George Washington
Fletcher, Frank Augustus
Coverley, John Harvey
Flanders, Ray Johnston
Campbell, Frank Chester
Frampton, Thomas Madge
Cooper, Everett
Foster, Fred Monroe
Carmack, Harvie Grant
Fairchild, John Jasper
Cole, John Eckles
Flanders, George Hiram
Cornett, James Henry
Farnsworth, John C.

406

French, Eugene KinkaJe
Fletcher, Marcus Elwood
Gwin, Ancil
Gwin, John Henry
Gray, Fred Willis
Gregg, Augustus Hugh
Garrison, James Thomas
Hiatt, John C.
Hiatt, William Macy, P. M .
Horney, Gilbert Harvey
Hole, Willett J.
Holbrook, Morrill
Hazzard, George Lee
Hazzard, Frederick A.
Hurst, Albert E.
Hurst, Charles J.
Hill, George Goldsmith
Holt, Shirley L.
Humphrey, Henry E.
Isbell, James Fletcher
Jacobs, Alfred
Johnson, Lewis
Kinsler, Charles Clement
Kelso, Charles Edmund
Kendrick, Henry W.
Lawhead, George C.
Lambert, Edward Frank
Lambert, Charles Leslie
Little, William Henry
Locke, James S.
McDonald, Hugh
McMillen, David Madison
Moorh.e ad, Talbert Buchanan
Monroe, George Walter
Montgomery, Lonnie Clarence
Myers, Lemuel Allen
Nickson, John
Owens, Frank Centennial

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Payne, Edwin Hiscutt
Powers, Jerome Frank
Price, William
Rainbolt, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Reed, Arthur Lucius
Reed, Cass Arthur
Rees, Cassius Alfred
Rendleman, Andrew j ackson
Reichling, William George, P. M.
Reider, Eddy Willi!!
Riho, John Perry
Risum, Chris
Rutherford, John Ashley
Stewart, James Hope, P. M.
Smith, Warren, P. M.
Smith, William Alfonzo
Stone, Frederick George
Souden, Oscar May
Seeley, James Brown
Schenck, Daniel Brininger
See, Marshall Marion
Shaffer, Howard McKinley
Stafford, Paul Leslie
Seaver, Fred Solon
· Sargent, George Herbert
Steinart, Bernard William
Tyler, Guy
Trueblood, William Erwin
Vernon, Walter A.
Way, Robert B., P. M .
Wood, John
Whitson, John Wesley
Wright, John E.
West, Arthur Jerome
West, Charles Elihu
Wyatt, Robert E.
Wiles, Joseph Mansfield
Woodward, Ray Ralph

407

CORONA LODGE, No. 324.
Pasadena, Los Angeles County. ·

•

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in eaeh month.
OFFICERS:
Lemuel Langstaff Test, Master,
William H. Holland, Sen. Deacon,
Norval G. Felker, Sen. Warden,
· Hugh E. Montgomery, Jun. Deacon,
Percival J. Priaulx, Jun. Warden,
Walter Roland Carrothers, Marshal,
Farnum Lorainne Slate, Treasurer, David Todd Gillmor, Steward,
Wallace K. Gaylord, Serretary,
Ernest Allen Batchelder, Steward,
William MacCormack, Chaplain,
George Rasmas Weaver, Tyler.

•

•

..
~

-114

•

..

MEMBERS:
Aberle, John
Cambell, James Hanford
AlJ43n, Robert Stuart
Carder, George Herbert
Allin, John
Carrothers, Walter Roland
Andrews, Dorsey Giles
Carter, William Mathews
Andrews, Harry Eugene
Cary, George Peter
Armstrong, Robi:rt
Case·, Gideon Seward, P. M.
Bacon, Frederick Albert
Chamberlain, Arthur Henry
Bailey, Edward Clifford
Chamberline, Clarence Edwin
Ball, Benjamin Franklin
Chatfield, Harry Ives
f:latchelder, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Coffin, George Holman
Bates, Henry Wolcott
Conrad, David Andrew
Baxter, Samuel Castner
Cook, William Vanalstine
Baxter, John Fleeger
Coolidge, Douglas William
Beach, ;Fitz E.
Crandall, Charles Joseph
Beatty, Harry Wilson
Crossman, James Dunn
Beck, John Martin
Crowell, William Chamberlai!l
Bell, Charles Webster
Crumb, Edgar Dwight
Bell, Nelson William
Davies, William Tremper
Biles, Fred Eugene
Davis, Joseph Edward
Blankenhorn, Louis.
Davis, Mayhew Whitesall
Blatz, Herman
Deacon, George
Bleecker, John James
Dickinson, Gardiner Williams
Blick, John Charles
Dillon, James Ricardo
Blick, Joseph James
Dockery, John Otto
Boner, Frank Sherman
Dodworth, Allen Roy
Braddock, Oscar Louis
Doty, Henry Aaron
Bridge, Norman
Dunham, Samuel Gaston
Brigham, George Franklin
Dyer, Heman
Brown, Charles Lee
Eason, Robert, P. M.
Brown; George Elmer
Felker, Norval Gibl'e>n, P. M.
Brown, Ira W.
Fessenden, Alfred Newton
Brownson, Howard Eugene
Fish, Clinton Thomas
Burnham, Frederick Russell
Frary, Leander Warren, P. M.

408
Frayvr, Dent Beckwith
Frost, Charles Henry
Gaylord, Wallace Kendall, P. M.
Gaylord, Albert Patterson
Gaylord, Robert Horace
Gentry, Henry Fletcher
Geohegan, Harry
Gibbs, George Albion
Gillmor, David Todd
Glasscock, Joseph Sherman
Gleason, Cassius M.
Goodrich, John Albert
Graham, Samuel Findley
Greene, Henry Mather
Green, Manly P.
Griffith, Eugene Cook, P . M.
Groenendyke, Edward, P. M.
Halsted, Samuel Hazard
Hamilton, Arthur Lincoln
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Hansen, Waldemar Grant
Harris, Fred Reid
Hawkins, Arthur Lou
Henderson, Leroy Munson
Herlihy, David Walter
Hertel, Herman Rudolph .
Hibbard, William Edward
Hoge, Smith B.
Holland, William H.
Holmes, James Huston
Holt, Herbert Charles
Horton, George Clifford
Howe, Edward Tucker
Huff, Melvin Byron
Hutchins, Alfred
Jackson, Charles William
Jacobs, Julius Richard
Jewett, Stanley Punchardon
Johnson, Thomas
Jones, Paul Vernon
Kelty, Elisha F. B.
Keyes, Charles Henry
Khazoyan, Haigag Hagop
Kiehl, Roy C.
Klamroth, Henry Herbert
Knight, William Franklin

ROSTER.
Leithead, William Wilson
Lisk, Byron
Lockwood, Charles Daniel
Lund, Charles
Maccormack, William
MacLaughlin, Leo Garnett
Macomber, Abraham Kingsley
Malaby, Zachary Taylor
Markham, Henry Harrison
Marquardt,' Jeese Claude
Marshall, William Sunderland
Martin, John Franklin .
Mattison, Fitch Champlin E.
May, Erne~t Heath, P. M.
McCament, John Oliver .
McDonald, Robert Walker
McLarn, Robert Harper
McNally, Patrick James
McNaughton, James
McPherson, William Penton
Merriam, John Howard
Montgomery, Hugh Eglinton
Montgomery, James Eglinton
Mordoff, James Malcolm, P. M.
Morris, Homer
Munson, Byron
Munson, Spencer M., P. M.
Neff, Edwin Dorland
Nelmes, Thomas Hussey
Nettleton, Ashbel Griswold
Newby, Henry
Orban, Peter
Palmer, Arthur Hopkins, P. M.
Parnay, Serope Yedicar'n
Patten, Henry Sheridan
Pearman, John Henry
Perkins, Henry Alfred
Perman, David Wilson
Pierce, William Jacob
Pike, Albert Pillsbury
Polley, Frank John
Porter, Lafayette Seward
Powers, Fremont
Priaulx, Percival James
Proudfoot, Frederick M.
Proudfoot, John

ROSTER.

•

....

Pyle, Edward Jehu
Raftery, Leon Francis
Randall, Merton Orlando
Rawles, Joseph Arthur•
Reynolds, Charles Calvin
Rhodes, Charles Hilliard
Roberts, George Burhl\_ns
Roberts, William Humes, P. M.
Rossiter, John Gormley
Sargent, Chester Davis
Schroeder, Diedrich ·
Schwacofer, Edward Blake
Seay, Chester .
Sheldon, Lionel Allen
Sherman, Henry Bushnell
Sherry, Henry
Sherwin, Billy Ebin
Shibley, William
Skillen, Charles , Moses
Skillen, Ralph George
Slate, Farnum Lorainne
Slavin, Matthew
Smith, Charles Warren
Smith, Elbert Whitney
Smith, John Martin
Smith, William Charles
Smith, William Henry
Smith, Willis Hubbard

Snowball, MacDougall
Staats, William Richardson
Stafford, John D .
Stanton, William
Stowell, Eugene Alexander
Stuart, Holloway Ithamer
Sullivan, Daniel Cornelius
Sutton, Charles 'Ihomas, P. M.
.Test, Lemuel Langstaff
Torrance, Lewis Curtis
Turner, Lewis Horace
Twombly, Fred Eugene
VanNuys, William Nelson
Ward, Victor Leigh
Warner, William Harvey, P. M.
Warnen, Kenyon
Washington, Richard Henry
Weed, Oscar F., P. M .
Willett, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Winters, Roy Leighton
Wood, J. Perry
Wood, John Windell
Wood, Melvin Edgar
Wooster, Charles, P. M.
Wotkyns, Walter Livingston, P. M .
W olkyns, Webster
Wyatt, Joseph Da,vy
Young, William Peter
-214

CONSUELO LODGE, No. 325.
Escondido, San Diego County.

•

.-

409

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Wm. Walters Carpenter, Master,
J. L. Van Deveer, Sen. Deacon,
Lloyd A. Stevenson, Sen. Warden, Alonzo R. Moon, Jun. Deacon,
William A. Covell, Jun. Warden,
..............................................Mal'l!ha:l,
John C. Dickson, Treasurer,
Charles Cleave, Steward,
John N. Turrentine, Secretary,
C. D. Seeley, Steward,
George R. Jenkins, Tyler.

ROSTER.

ROS'l'ER.

4l0

MEMBERS:
Kies, Byron W.
Bailey, Charles Wesley
Lehner, George
Bailey, Theodore 0.
Marshall, Henry
Bailey, Clinton J.
Marshall, Hugh J.
Baldridge, William Henry
Merriam, Gustavus F.
Baldridge, Charles W.
McNeil, Louis W.
Boyle, James
Moon, Alonzo R.
Bumgarner, George M .
Mudd, "'lf. S.
Butler, William Nelson
Nordahl, Andrew W.
Carpenter, Wm. W. Jr., P. M.
Phillips, Andrew
Churchill, Edward Marion, P. M.
Churchill, Charles B .
Quinlin, Edward
Ramey, William Luther, P. M.
Cleave, Charles
Stanley, Will H .
Connor, Mayrant
Stevenson, Donald R.
Covell, William A.
Stevenson, James R.
Dickson, John Charles
Dunn, Alvin Delos, P. M.
Stevenson, Lloyd A.
Stevenson, Frank H.
Estes, Payton Wade
Steiner, Sigmund
Garrett, Benjamin G.
Teed, Hamilton J.
Hansen, N. F .
Tarvin, E. M.
Holmburg, Charles K.
Turrentine, John Neil, P. M.
Hartshorn, Charles Darwin, P. M.
Welty, Henry
Hinman, Byron
Witt, Charles G.
Jenkins, George R.
Wohlford, Alvin W.
Judson, John N.
Worth, Jehoida J.
-50
Kelley, John L.

•

•

Berding, Gerhard Herman
Briggs, George Smith
Cheney, Raymond Stewart
Cumback, Edward Lynn
Cubbage, Wilford
Christie, John Alexander
Clark, Ray R.
Cooley, Malichai Harry
Crayne, Daniel Edward
Crew, Abner Lafayette
Fluhr, Charles George
Freeman, William Francis
Freeman, Herman
Fish, Eli Willis
Guthrie, Robert Edward
Gilbert, Isaac Sylvester
Havill, Frederick H.
Kelly, Fred M., P .. M.
McElmell, James A.
Mealy, Solomon Richard
Miller, William Lewis
Miller, Charles William, Jr.
Mills, William Henry
Monaghan, Charles Burns
Mon8:ghan, Francis, P. M.

Mnrphy, Daniel
Newhall, Henry Martin
0 'Donnell, Martin William
Patton, Wallace J.
Platner, William Albert
Pellat, Robert Wesley
Phillips, Roscoe Erwin
Rhodes, Charles Edgar
Rickenbacher, Hartman Walter
Root, Leroy Vincent, P. M.
Reinen, Otto Frank
Smith, William Alpheus
Saunders, George W.
Sanderlin, Elmer Lanson
Schiller, Frank Christ
Shale, Samuel Clarence
Stearns, Albert Henry, P. M.
Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt
Taylor, Carl I.
Topp, William Wallace
Vick, William Robert
Wooll, Arthur Jo:Jm
Wild, Arthur Grant
Williams, James
Yeager, Sherman Abner
-58

LONG BEACH LODGE, No. 327.
NEEDLES LODGE, No.. 326.

Long Beach, Los Angeles County.

Needles, San Bernardino County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Leroy Vincent Root, Master,
Chas. Geo. Fluhr, Sen. Deacon,
C. Edgar Rhodes, Sen. Warden,
Chas. Wm. Miller, Jun. Deacon,
Elmer N. Baker, Jun. Warden,
... . . . . . . . . ..... , Marshal,
Wm. Francis Freeman, Treasurer,
Fred M. Kelly, Steward,
Eli Willis Fish, Secretary,
George S. Briggs, Steward,
Wilford Cubbage, Tyler.
Armantage, John
Anderson, Harry Temple
Ahrens, H enry
Baker, Elmer N.

MEMBERS:
Bowen, Hector Morgan
Butler, George Eugene, P. M.
Bispham, William
Bedell, Stephen Allen

•

OFFICERS:
Walter Clifford Smith, Master,
Leonidas F. Johnson, Sen. Deacon,
John Thoe. Cullen, S en. Warden,
Lewis D . .Mayers, Jun. D eacon,
Clark Harvey Shaw, Jun. Warden, William Wallace Lowe, Marshal,
Frank Mcc utchen, Treasurer,
Albert Nelson, Steward,
Domont Seely Stratton, Secretary, Edward J. Starr, Steward,
Mark T. Berry, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Abbott, Arthur Marion
Adams, Loyd Garfield
Allison, Robert
Almind, Anders E:
Austin, Albert Bennett

411

Austin, William Horace
Bailey, Louis Albert
Bailey, Henry Clay
Baker, J ames Ba rden
Baldridge, William Rankin

412
Baldwin, Walter George
Barndoll~r, Harry, P. M.
Barton, William Thomas
Beard, George
Benson, George Samuel
Benson, John Paul
Bentley, William Raymond
Birkle, William ·
Boone, Harvey Elsworth
Bowers, James Erwin
Bowers, Wesley Clay
Brandenburg, Frank
Brayton, William Lorentus
Brown, Edwin Severance
Browning, Nathaniel Cannon
Butts, Duane R.
Callahan, Henry Seymour
Campbell, Marcus Herbert
Campbell, William Leslie
Carroll, John
Carse, Elmer George
Clayton, Albert Benjamin
.Clem, David
Clewett, Chester C.
Collins, Arthur Raymond
Connett, Albert Bradwell
Connett, Harvey Mahlon
Counts, John Ellis
Covert, Joseph Newton
Cownover, Alpheus Alonzo
Creeth, Ernest Ray
Crowe, Frank Austin
Cullen, John Thomas
Davis, Magnet Jervais
Davenport, Alfred LaRue
De Meulle, Joseph
Dewey, Edwin Preston, P. M.
Dewitt, Deelton Dyer
Dodsworth, Robert Metcalf
Donnell, Theophilus Crosby
Douglas, Bruce Edwin "
Douglas, Cyrus Edwin
Drake, William Lord
Driskill, Jesse
Dudderar, George Washington
Dudderar, Clarence Boyd

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Ewing, Louis Franklin
Eno, Rufus A.
Finlayson, John
Flint, George Clifford, P. M.
Fetterman, Isaac Leonard
Foster, William Addi.son
Fellows, Ernest Frank
Galer, William
Green, William. Horace
Goodhue, Arthur Martin
Greive, Anselm de Grellier
Green, James Henry
Grube, Aaron Christian
Gilbert, Christopher Columbus
Hammer, Samuel Crawford
Hargis, Charles Jones, P. M.
Hargis, George Wayne
Harley, Robert Pollok
Harris, Adam Singleton
Harrison, Henry
Heartwell, Charles Leonard
Heartwell, James Benjamin
Hill, Jesse Andrew Paton
Hincks, Harvey Wellman
Hirsch, George Fred
Holden, Joseph Matthias
Hough, John J.
Horn, Harvey
Horne, Walter James
Huntington, Charles Elmer
Huff, William F.
Jackson, Edward Hendryx
Johnson, Leonidas Frederick
Jones, George Gray
Jones, Edward Palmer
,Tones, William Harriman
Julian, William Bailey
Kenyon, Brewster Cox
Knight, Frederick Alonzo
Kenniston, Arthur Hiram
Kennedy, William Anderson
Kinzer, Samuel
Kimball, Rollins Freeman
Lowe, William Wallace, P. M.
Loynes, Richard, P. M.
Lyster, William Grafton

•

0

•

Losee, Judson B.
Long, Stephen Gano
Macdonald, Harry Beverly
Malcolm, Charles
Malone, Augustine Chas., P. M.
Martin, George
Martin, William Simon
Marshall, Harry Bateham
Masters, Robert Emmet
Mayhugh, Spencer Arthur
Mccutchan, Henry Chester
Mccutchan, Hugh· Henry
Mccutchen, Frank .
Mears, Charles Franklin
Miller, James Aden
Mitchell, Charles Edward, P. M.
Moore, Eugene B.
Moore, Harry Dawson
Morris, John Miles
Morgan, Jesse Josiah
Mosher, Evan
Munholland, John Henry
Munholland, John Guthry
Murphy, Charles Thornton
Mussen, John Edward
Musselman, Edwin
Myers, George Ridley
Neel, Melvin
Neece, George Washington
Nelson, Albert
Nixon, Herbert Emerson
Oakford, Richard Scholes
Pierson, George H.
Perce, Louis Ansen
Patterson, Charles P.
Porteous, Arthur Leopold
Potter, Pleasant G.
Pease, Charles
Porterfield, Walter Lowrie
Pingree, Franklin Pierce
Pierce, Robert Whaley
Plantico, Emil Louis
Roberts, John
Raine, James Bradley
Robinson, Chester Ellswood
Rockwell, Guy Lionel

Saunders, Franklin
Scales, Joseph Henry
Scott, Henry Adison
Schulze, Theodore Gustave
Shackleton, James
Shaw, Clark Hervey
Shaw, Frank Edwin
Shaw, Hervey Eleazer
Shaw, William Ray
Shufllebotham, John G.
Shull, David P.aul
Smith, Harley Earl
Smith, Louis Hazelwood
Smith, Walter Clifford
Snow, Albert B.
Springer, James Bowie
Sta:lford, Wm. Perry Lucien
Stannard, S. Grant
Stevens, William Samuel
Stigner, David B.
Stovall, Thomas
Stratton, Domont Seely
Strickland, Stedman Leeds
Stuart, Harry·carlos
Swain, Arthur W.
'l'aber, Charles Grant
Taylor, Charles John Edward
Taylor, Humphrey
Thayer, Delos P.
Thornburg, Charles Hix
Thurman, Naaman Dawson
Twombly, James C.
Twombly, James Richard
Vanderburg, Robert Benton
Varney, William Madison
Waite, Earl Sherman
Waldron, Thomas Henry
Walker, Allen Cyrille
Wallace, John Meredith
Warren, William Mark
Watson, Matt Paul
Wheeler, Frank
White, Walter C.
Whitiker, Forest Marion
Weinberg, Isaac
W elbourn, Oclasco Carlos

418

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

414
Welch, William
Westgate, Charles Adams, P. M.
Williams, Alonzo Rawley
Wilson, Harry Milton
Wilson, George Hay

Wilson, William Harrison
Wood, James Watson
Zahler, Frederick William
Ziegler, Harry B.

•
-203

REDONDO LODGE, No. 328.
Redondo, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Foote Sprinkle, Master,
·Denton J. Pitts, Sen. Deacon,
Chas. Wm. Grasse!, Sen. Warden,
Jesse Albert Searing, Jbn. Deacon,
Thos. B. Whiteside, Jun. Warden,
Barre Aug. Furlong, Marshal;
Arthur T. Anderson, Steward,
Peter Brown, Treasurer,
Augustus M. Harter, Secretary,
Ernest Clark Heath, Steward,
James Guy Stark, Chaplain,
Louis Von Rockabrandt, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Abell, James Nelson
Kew, James Herbert
Anderson, Arthur Torrence
Klein, Alfred Henry
Kosterlitz, John C.
Barkley, Samuel Deal
Bluett, James
Leftwich, Jerry Tiffin
Brown, Peter
Leuzinger, Adolph
Lichty, Bert Christian
Carter, Walter
Lindsay, Gaun Ja~kson
Cate, George
Lindsley, Samuel Goodwin
Cleghorn, William Jackson, P. M.
Mangold, Charles Clarence
Davison, Jonathan Leeds
McMillan, Edwin Harbaugh
Dry, Wilson Joseph
McNally, Henry Jacob
Eneix, David Sylvester
Meacham, Harry Douglas
Feder, Henry Charles
Means, Charles Vernon
Fisher, Martin Van Buren
Furlong, Barre Augustus
More, Melvin John
Paine, John William
Galentine, Charles Corrington
Paine, William Lee
George, James Harvey
Parker, David Jonathan
Gillespie, Joseph C., P. M.
Grasse!, Charles William
Parker, Perl Scott
Griffin, Cecil Lelland
Perry, Frank Lorin
Hardin, Louis Brownlow
Pitts, Denton John
Protsch, Alex. Frederick
Harter, Augustus Medores, P. M.
Quint, Leander John
Heath, Ernest Clark
Hinman, Orrin Clark
Raby, Henry George
Holm, George Hansen
Rettig, Louis Ebrohardt

Rice, Calvin
Rice, Charles Albert
Riley, George Andrew
Russell, John Tecumseh
Schlegel, John
Searing, Jesse Albert
Scott, Nelson Elmir
Scott, Raymond Chester
Shultz, James
Smith, Richard Dallum, P. M.
Smith, William
Smith, George Montgomery
Spaulding, Edgar Warren
Spaulding, Elbert Augustus
Sprinkle, Wm. Foote

Stark, James Guy
Steel, Arthur Bridge, P. M.
Venable, Pierce Samuel, P. M.
Venable, Charles Earle
Von Rockabrandt, Louis
Weaver, John Lenard
Weaver, Wallace Herman
Webb, Sherman Albert
· Wells, Lucian Fayette
Whiteside, Thomas Bingley
Whiteside, Ross Saxton
Whomes, Arthur
Whomes, Joseph
Woolley, Lester J.
Woolley, William Willard
-78

VALLEE de FRANCE LODGE, No. 329.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Leon Curtet, Master,
Louis Pedy, Senior Deacon,
, ~rancois A. Bouelle, Sen. Warden, Simeon Dock, Junior Deacon,
Jean Mazet, Junior Warden,
Louis Gabard, Mar~hal,
Ernest Fleur, Treasurer,
Clovis Malay, Steward,
Armand Cazeaux, Secretary,
Arthur Fava, Steward,
George Lacour, Chaplain,
John Francis Lacroix, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Allee, Jean
Antonioli, Clement
Allemand, Jeremie
Barthe, Jean Bertrand, P. M.
Bresson, Francois
Bouelle, Frank Auguste
Cazeaux, Armand, P. M.
Cugnier, Louis
Castera, Jean
Curtet, Leon, P. M.
Chiarodit, Georges
Christopher, Louis Joseph
Deutsch, Charles, P. M.
Dock, Simeon

415

Escallier, Leon
Eyraud, Marcelen
Eyraud, Joseph
Fleur, Ernest
Fav.a, Arthur
Gabard, Louis
Granette, Guisseppe
Humbert, Etienne Edward
Hiriart, Pascual
Labourdette, Pierre
Lacour, George
Louazon, Joseph
Marin, Jules
Mazet, Jean

ROSTER.

416

ROSTER.

Sentous, Louis
Sentous, Jules Jean
Taix, Adrien~ P. M.
Taix, Joachim
Tischhauser, Arnold
Tisnerat, Edouard
Vial, Scipion
Vincent, Clement

Malay, Clovis
Machris, George Louis
Machris; Alfred Paul
Nesa, ·Bernard
Puissegur, Frank Raymond
Pourroy, Pierre
Pellissier, Germain
Vedy, Louis
Roques, Paul

-45

KILAUEA LODGE, No. 330.
Hilo, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated Meetings, Saturday nearest the Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
D. Greig Butchart, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. H. C. Campbell, Jun. Deacon,
Donald Scott Bowman, Marshal,
Chas. Francis Parsons, Steward,'
Charles Weatherbee, Steward,
William S. Fohn, Tyler.

William McKay, Master,
Geo. H. Vicars, Sen. Warden,
D. A. Loebenstein, Jun. Warden,
Adam Lindsay, Treasurer,
Frank A. Medcalf, Secretary,
Chas. Wm. Hill, Chaplain,

MEMBERS:
Campbell William Henry Colen
Conradt, J.ulius Wilhelm
Cosgrove, James
Curtis, Albett Guild
Dale, William Frank J'ohn
Deacon, George Turner
Deyo, Eugene Nelson
Dickson, Charles
Elliott, Harold Beaty
Engals, Hans
Fairer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Fincke, Heinrich Wilhelm
Fitzgerald, John
Flohr, Ernest Gustav
Forbes, David McHattie
Forbes, Robert
Fraser, Alexander
Gerlach, Henry August
Gc·re, Giles Henry
Gibb, Arthur Charles

Ainslie, Archibald
Andrews, Lorrin .Andrews
Andrews, Wentworth Kinney
Arnswaldt, Ernest Augtist von
Arnswaldt, Anton Walter von
Baker, John Thomas
Balding, William Thomas, P. M.
Baldwin, Erdman Dwight
Beckley, Henry Pitman
Benton, Corydon Philemon
Blake, George
Bohm, William Siegfried
Bole, John Hodge
Bowman, Donald Scott
Bowman, Reginald Hamilton
Breyman, Fred
Brein, William
Brunaghim, Everett
Butchart, David Creig
Cameron, James Murray

Goodale, William Whitmore
Grace, John Johnston
Green, Charles David
Guard, Thomas
Heminger, George Levy
Henderson, James
Hill, Charles William
Holmes, Everett Nathan
Howatt, James College P., P. M .•
Howland, John Hastings
Humburg, John August
Hutchison, Robert Allan
Irwin, Archer
Jamieson, George
Johnson, Peter
Kelsey, Evelyn Henry
Kennedy, Charles Reid
Kennedy, John Downie
Kennedy, Ronald Clark
Linder, Axtell Ferdinand
Lindsay, Adam
Lindsay, Andrew Bonnar
Lobenstein, David Albert
Lougher, Robert
Lyman, Levi Chamberlain
Maby, John Henry
Macpherson, John
Mackenzie, Daibhidh
Maxfield, Daniel Edwin
McDougal, William Paul
McKay, William
McKnight, William
McLean, Walter Scott
McQuaid, William Matthew
Medcalf, Frank Arthur, P. M.
Moir, John Troup, P. M.
Moses, Robert Todd
Muir; James Marriner
Napier, John

417

Nichols, Ezra Francis
Omsted, Olaf
Overend, Henry Sheridan
Phetow, Frank Christian
Parsons, Silen1;1s De Wit
Patten, Harold Vaughan
Peck, Philip
Peck, Samuel Stodole
Ray, Ira Elmer
Ray, Willis Alfred
Rice, Milton
Richards, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Ridgway, Thomas Caldwell, P. M.
-Ross, John Monroe
Rycroft, Robert Henry
Schmidt, Wilhelm · Daniel
Schoen, Irving Baruch
Shaw, Henry Leonard
Smith, John Ulric
Souza, Florentin, P. M.
Stobie, Charles Alexander
Stow, Charles Lethbridge
Turner, Lewis Farrant
Vannatta, William
Vic3.J."s, George Henry
W ache, Martin
Wall, Allen Serouny
Weatherbee, Charles
Webster, James
Weight, Edward Joseph
Willfong, Na than Crosby
Williams, Geo. Herbert,, P. M .
Wise, William Seaburn
Woods, James Frank
Woods, Palmer Parker
Woods, Samuel Parker
Wright, Charles Edward
Wilson, George
-117

418

ROSTER.

•

•

ROSTER.

PACIFIC GROVE LODGE, No. 33r.
Pacific Grove, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, first. Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

• ,,

Daniel Joseph Leary, .Master,
Elmer Geo. Brua, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Chas. Cook, ~en. Warden,
Chas. K. Johnston, Jun. Deacon,
John Proctor, Junior Warden, ·
Geo. Francis Ingham, Marshal,
Robert M. Fitzaimmom1, Treasurer, Fred Orland Richardson, Steward,
Edwin S. Johnston, Secretary,
Wm. Wallace Stewart, Steward,
William Sutton, Chaplain,
George Alex. Ingram, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brink, William Otho
Johnston, Edwin Simpson
Lawrey, Francis Edward
Brua, Elmer George
Buffum, Eldridge Clayton
Leary, Daniel Joseph
Chamberlain, Charles Grandison
Lee, Abraham
Cook, William Charles
Lewis, Edward Branham
Eardley, Bedson Alma
Moore, David Charles
Morse, Albert Garrish
Fifield, Daniel Black, P. M.
Fifield, Willard George
Oliver, Joseph Kurtz
Fitzsimmons, Abram Miller
Oyer, Phillip
Fitzsimmons, Robert Miller, P. M. Patrick, Harry Lee
Peterso.n, John August
Fitzsimmons, George Lyman
Proctor, John
Harper, Hind, Jr.
Richardson, Fred Orland
Hart, Charles Edwin
Steiner, Adam Jackson
Howard, Charles Millington
Howard, "Fred Dudley
Stewart, William Wallace
Stalter, John
Ingham, George Francis
Sutton, William, P. M .
Ingram, George Alexander
Trimmer, Oliver Smith, P. M.
James, Elias Olan
Tuck, Charles Edward
James, Richard L.
Tuttle, Charles Kirkham, P. M.
Johnston, Charles Kingsley

•

"

-40

SAN PEDRO LODQ.E, No. 332.
San Pedro, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jas. Henry Johnson, S~n. Deacon,
Ila Calvin Lawyer, Master,
H. Mervin Long, Sen. Warden,
Peter Pearce, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Burnett Duncan, Jun. Warden, Newell Bailey Stetson, Marshal,
.Tames H. Powers, Treasurer,
Frederick Wm. Allison, Steward,
Wm. Charles Greely, Steward,
William Davis, Secretary,
William Algo Carpenter, Tyler.
William Gordan Mills,. r.haplain,

•

Abbott, Osceola C.
Abbott, Edwfo Stewart
Ahlin, Karl Albert
Allan, Howard Clinton
Allison, Frederick William
Anderson, Johan Alfred
Asmussen, Marcus Frederick
Baker, Charles Joseph
Back, Mathias Christen~on
Ealy, Henry
Barton, Albert Garrett
Benjamin, Thomas Glay
Benjamin, William Brooks
Birkholm, Frederick Sophus
Brand, ~o bert Lee
Brose, John Ambrose Octovius
Buckley, John Wilkinson
Burns, Frank
Carpenter, William Algo
Clair, John Edward
Clark, James Robert Duncan
Clough, George · Fletcher
Colman, Edwin Waterman
Dakin, William Stevens
Davenport, Walter Lewis
Davis, William
Davis, David P.
Dodson, James Hillsey
Duncan, William Burnett
Fawcett, Thomas H.
Gray, John, P. M.
Graves, Stephen Douglas
Greely, William Charles
Gridley, Frederick Harland
Griffin, John
Goodwin, Andrew Peter
Gwaltney, John Sandford
Gwaltney, Sylvester
Hanson, Christian
Hartman, Edward
Hill, William Cornelius, P. M. ·
Hixson, Jerad H.
Hyatt, William Harvey
Johnson, Gust Ferdinand
Johnson, John Henry

MEMBERS:
Johnson, Charles W.
Kallenberg, Ernest Walfred
R:arr, Frank
Kiff, Frank Oscar
Kittleson, Jacob
Kling, George Stephen
Krohn, Peter George
Lane, Henry Stanton, P. M.
Langkilde, Sage Andreas
Lawyer, Ila Calvin, P. M.
Lippman, Lazard Harold
Lippman, Bernard Bear
Logan, John Edward
Long, Harper Mervin
Lm::qian, Geerge Henry Frederick
My.ere, Bernard
McDonald, Don B.
Mather, Rolf Harold A.
Milber, Ernest Albert
Miller, Charles Laird
Mills, William Gordon
Mitchell, Ray
Moores, Edwin Butler·
Neilson, Carl P eter
Oman, Eric William
Pearce, Ira
Pearce, Peter
Peterson, Anton Marcelius
Peterson, Lawrens
Pitman, John Spence
Powers, James Henry, P. M.
Quinn, Richard
Riggs, Murray Hez
Schroeder, Johan Frederick
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schwartz, Clifford Diece
Schwartz, Moritz
Seglem, John Lawrence
Spadeholtz, Lester Bates
Spencer, William
Stetson, Murrell Bailey
Stewart, George
Strom, Fred Nestor
Svenson, August Wilhelm
Svenson, Charles John

419

•

ROSTER.

420
Supelveda, Albert George
Thornton, Daniel Clarkson, P. M.
Tutt, Edward Stanley
Walton, Joseph Wilson
Weddle, Joseph Milton
Weir, James

'

Westerdale, Gus
Whitman, Frank Scott
Wickersham, William Howard
Williams, James Henry
Young, Edward Everett, P. M.
Zaddart, David Ernest Johan

421

COVINA LODGE, No. 334.
Covina, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
F. Edgar Dudderar, Master,
R. Oliver Simpson, Sen. l)eacon, ·
Amador F. Coltrin, Sen. Warden,
Aloia Nigg, Junior Deacon,
Wm. M. Griswold, Jun. Warden,
Dana Charles King, Marshal,
James Denny Reed, Treasurer,
Percy Louis Nash, Steward,
W es.t wood Hugh Collins, Secretary, John Chas. H. Bruyes, Steward,
Joseph Fletcher Brow, Chaplain,
Robert Lee Kingery, Tyler.

-102

ALTA LODGE, No. 333.
Bridgeport, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Hiram Barries Patterson, Master,
Ed. Leroy Brandon, Sen. Deacon,
Herman L. Schreck, Sen. Warden, Harry S. Cook, Junior Deacon,
Emery Edgar Kirkwood, Marshal,
George Delury, Jun. Warden,
Ed. Alanson Murphey, Treasurer,
Benj. Lewis Simmons, Steward,
Joshua West Towle, Secretary,
Alton Denwood Waltze, Steward,
Alex. Franklin Scott, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Murphey, John Douglas
Barnes, Baxter Denis
Murphey, Edward Alanson
Batjer, Frank Wilhelm Robert
Montrose, Harold Albert
Bernard, Herbert Jame!!
Mi:Ewen, Duncan
·
Brandon, Edward Leroy, P. M.
Patterson, Hiram Barnes, P. M.
Bump, George· Henry
Patterson, Robert Ralph
. Cargill, William James
Patterson, Rezin Grant
Chichester, George
Rickey, Charles William
Cook, Harry Sawyers
Simmons, Benjamin Lewis
Cook, Frederick William
Scott, Franklin Alexander
Creaser, John Alexander
Smith, Samuel M., P. M.
Crowell, Frederick Everett
Smith, William Henry, Jr.
Day, Charles Eugene
Sayre, Andrew Phleming
Delury, George
Sawyer, John Merrick
Drake, Roy Niles
Schreck, Herman Leonard
Hunewill, Napolion Boneypart
Travis, Abner Andrew
Hardy, Claud Henry
Towle, Joshua West, P. M.
Kirkwood, Charles Melvin
Taylor, Charles Henry
Kirkwood, George Agustus
Waltze, Alton Denwood
Kirkwood, Elmer ~ vered
Wedertz, Charles Edward
Kirkwood, Emery Edgar, P. M.
-41
Laws, Arthur Herbert

ROSTER .

.. '

• •

MEMBERS:
Atwood, George Nichols, P. M.
Hulce, Clarence Lester
Brunjes, Jacob, P. M.
Hoogendyk, William
Benton, Henry Clay
Ingram, Samuel S.
Johnstone, William Arthur
Brown, Carlton Barstow
Bristow, Charles E.
Johnson, Charles F.
Brow, Wm. Charles Henry
Kerckhoff, Anton Phillip
Brow, Joseph Fletcher
Kline, John William
Clapp, Eri Garfield
King, Dana Charles
Coleman, Samuel Shepherd
Kingery, Robert Lee
Collins, Herbert Edward
Lavayea, William· Henry
Collins, Westwood E;ugh
Mathews, James Lewis, P. M.
Menefee, Charles
Coltrin, Amador Francis
Coltrin, ·Marion Chester
Menefee, Clarence Wheeler
Corbett, William Henry
Nigg, Aloia
Coolman, John Henry
Nash, Percy Louis
Carrier, Elisha Bosworth
Pelton, Frank Edward
Deeter, Charles Clarence
Pollard, Richard Caswell
Dudderar, George Otis, P. M.
Plant, Francis Benjamin
Dudderar, Franklin Edgar, P. M.
Reed, James Denny
Rush, Bert
Gilchrist, John
Graham, George
Richer, Charles Anthony
Graham, Levi D.
Shouse, George Owen
Given, Bryce Morrow
Scofield, George B.
Greenlaw, Ernest Elwood
Simpson, Ralph Oliver
Greenlaw, Isaac
Vincent, Bert
Griswold, Thomas Francis, P. M.
Van Awken, Erastus W.
Ware, Edward Septimus
Griswold, William Merton
Griffiths, Charles Edwin
Webb, Benjamin S.
Hay, Daniel Creager
Wellington, Arthur Lee
Hines, Bynam Robert
Wanty, Charles Camille
-60

ROSTER.

422

•

ROSTER.

WEST GATE LODGE, No. 335.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry Stephen Brown, Master,
Jay B. Jacobs, Sen. Deacon,
H. Wash. Louis, Sen. Warden,
F. Marion Duncan, Jun. Deacon,
W. Herman Auble, Jun. Warden,
Frank Elmer Edwards, Marshal,
Fred Zucker, Treasurer,
Alfred Eben Adams, Steward,
August Wackerbarth, Secretary,
Charles Flavel Turner, Steward,
Joseph L. Murphey, Chaplain,
Edward Hall Miller, Tyler.
MEMBF.RS·

Adams, Alfred Eben
Adler, Melville Charles
Altman, Harry William
Ancker, Albert
Archibald, Herbert Owen
Arons, Morris
Atkinson, Harry Rolls
Auble, Walter Herman
Bacon, William R.
Baer, Henry Simon
Baer, Oscar Isaae
Bagby, Edwin Hanson
Bailie, William Nassa:i
Barham, Albert Dudley
Barman, Frederick Ferdinanil
Bartels, Bernard William
Bartholomew, Charles August
Baruh, Joseph
Bayless, Herman Gordon
Berge, Carl Theo. Emil
Bernheim, Abraham
Besselman, Charlie Fred
Besselman, Fred L.
Black, George Nathan, P . M.
Black, Julius Richard
Bock, Charles
Boswell, Albert Baldy
Britt, Eugene Waddell
Brown, Francis Henry
Brown, Henry Stephen
Brown, Robert George
Brownstein, Aleck
Brownstein, Daniel Jacob

Buell, Samuel '\Vashington
Burns, John Charles
Campbell, Warren Irving
Carl, Irving L.
Cave, Daniel, P. M.
Chamberlain, Wm. Edwin, P. M.
Uha:r;i.dler, Logan Bertram
Chase, William Elmer
Cheshire, Charles Albert
Church, Samuel Barber
Cline, William
Cohen, Susman
Cohn, Albert
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Isidor
Cohn, Isidor N.
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Morris
Cole, Louis Maurice
Cooper, Jay J.
Craig, William Talton
Danziger, Jake Morris
Darby, William T.
Difani, Edward
Dooner, William Pierton
Doull, Albert Prince
Duncan, Francis Marion
Dunkel, Otto
Eisner, Isidor
Evans, Charles Edwaril
Everhardy, Matthew William
Feintuch, Abram
Figg, Gay William

•

•

••

Fishburn, John Eugene
Flaxman, Samuel Alex.
Francis, John Haywood
Frank, Herman Washington
Frankel, Adolph
Frankel, Cecil
Frankenstein, Abraham Frankens
Gainsley, George Christian
Getz, John
Gibson, Robert Cary
Glafke, Charles
Goldberg, Hazry Samuel
Goldsmith, George
Goldsmith, Gerson
Goldsmith,.Joseph
Goldwater, Lemuel
Gottschalk, William M.
Grant, John Edward
Green, Robert
Greenewald, Aaron Ben
Gresswell, Herbert Kemp
Haines, Charles Johnson
Hamburger, David Asher
Hamburger, Moses Asher
I'
Hardman, James Manford
Harper, Arthur Cyprian
Harris, Howard Jacob
Hartnack, Albert Charles
Harwood, Benjamin
Harwood, Sprigg
Hasenburg, Fredreick B.
Hauser, Edward ·Charles
Hauser, Herman Julius
Haynes, John Randolph
Hecht, Sigmund, P. M.
Hinzeman, Euward Anthony
Hellman, Maurice Samuel
Henry, Edward George
Herrington, Ira
Higginbotham, Samuel H.
Hill, Thomas Lincoln
Hookstratten, Edward Gregory
Hopkins, Benjamin ·Franklin
Hunsaker, William Jefferson
Hupp, George Shother
Hutchison, William McGuffie

Jacobs, Jay Berthold
Jacoby, Abraham •
Ka.hn, Frank. G.
Kahn, John
Kaiser, Otto
Kalchheim, Eleias
Kauffman, Jules
Kazinsky, Joseph Sim
Kellogg, Charles Giles
Kirkpatrick, Campbell Berry
Kirschner, Samuel
Kitchen, John Franklin
Klingenstein, Isaac
Kor'n, Jake
Krafft, Justus, P. M.
Kurtz, Carl
Kurtz, Saul Benjamin
Lang, Augustus
La Niece, Edwin
Laventhal, Isidor Edward
Lavrntbal, Jacob
Lazard, E<lmurid Myer
Leavitt, Frederick Clinton
Lerner, Samuel Alex.
Levi, Herman
Levy, Alfred
Levy, Charles
Levy, Isaac Oury
Levy, Leo Louis
Levy, Louis
Levy, Samuel Garland
Lichtenberger, Herman Carl
Lissner, Meyer
Llewellyn, David Edgar
Llewellyn, John
Louis, Henry Washington
Lowman, Isaac L.
Lubin, William
Maas, Simon
Maier, Bernhard
Maier, Leopold
Mallory, Llewellyn Aloord
Marks, Joshua Harry
Marshutz, Siegfried G.
Maxson, Herbert Elmer
McArthur, Peter Robb

423

424

R08TER.

Robertson, Orville Leroy
McKay, Walter Warner
Rosenstein, Fritz
McMillan, Robert Wilson
Roth, Eugene Henry
Meertief, Charles
Sain, Alfred Hants
Mendelsohn, Edward
Balkey, Jacob Samuel
Merigold, Harry Patterson
Salzman, Max
Merigold, Robert Lee
Sargeant, Theo. Anthony
Mertes, Anton
Schiff, Ludwig, P. M.
Mertes, George Adams
Schiff, Solomon
Meyberg, Moritz
Schutte, Johann Gottfried
. Miller, Frank
Schwartz, Charles Edward
Miller, Isaac Max
Schweitzer, Arthur Dell
Mitchell, Frederick William
Scolary, Philip Anton
Mitchell, Robert
Sheuerman, Bernhardt
Mole, Harry Porter
Short, John Owen
Morgan, Cosmo William Edward
Siegel, Frederick
Morris, Julius Samuel
Siegel', Myer _
Morrison, William Edward D.
Silver, Herman, P. M.
Murphey, Joseph Lanes
Simms, Vinton Delos
Murphy, Neil Hart
Simon, Eli Harry
Naudain, Thomas Nelson
Slotterbeck, Harry
N eisser, Otto
Smith, Francis William
Newbauer, Sanford Robert
SmHh, Thomas Sherman
Newmark, Maurice Harris
Snodgrass, Henry Milton
Newmark, Philip A.
Solomon, Jacob Carl
Newmark, Phineas
Stanton, Philip Ackley
Newmark, Samuel Mark
Stein, Samuel H.
Nordlinger, Louis 8., P. M.
Steinbeck, Ernest Frederick
Norton, Aaron Friedman
Steinlein, Karl
Norton, Richard Henry
Stephens, Frank Arch
Parker, J?seph Herndon
Stern, Gustave
Parker, Walter Francis
Stevens, Will Phoender
Partridge, Harry
Stewart, William Daniel
Pefl.ey, Arthur
Stoner, William Greene
Pettebone, Henry Welles
Streicher, Michael
Plummer, Charles Hicks
Sweet, Otto
Pollock, Frank Joseph
Switt, John Ferguson
Prenzlauer, Albert
Taskey, Paul
Raise, Carl
Taylor, Waller
Ramish, Adolph
Thompson, Arthur Marsh
Rangan, Joseph Alfrecl
Tibbitts, George Arthur
Reichenbach, Frank Benjamin
Triest, Karl
Rendon, Victor Armand
Triolo, 'James SIOrach
Reynolds, John Jacob
Richards, Ellsworth Francis, P. M. Trippet, Oscar A.
Tunison, Albert Lafayette
Reider, Michael
Turnbull, Mark
Ritchie, Matthew R. Steele

•

ROSTER.

I

Tyroler, Adolph
Wacholder, Joel
Wacherbarth, August
Walter, Albert
Ward, Benjamin English
Watson, James Henry
Weismeyer, Glen Morton
Wendt, Henry :Paul
White, Charles Henry

425

White, William Addison
Willard Eugene
Wittenberg, Ernest J.
Wood, Percy Neville
Woolner, Henry. Sigmund
Youngerman, Moses
Zeehandelaar, Felix Josephus
Zucker, Fred
-267.

FRUITVALE LODGE, No. 336.
Fruitvale, Alameda County.

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

..

OFFICERS:
Cornelius Carew, Master,
Fred 'k Stuart Ellard, Senior Deacon,
John C. McEwen, Senior Warden,
Arthur Alfred Barber, Jun. Deacon,
Harry E. Fruitt, Junior Warden,
Hugo William Storch, Marshal,
Philip Henry Blake, Treasurer,
Frank Stuart Rosseter, Steward,
Henry Tyack, Secretary,
Llewellyn W. Blake, Steward,
Frank Oscar Schulleats, Chaplain, Josiah Tomlinson, Tyler.

Beckwith, Ward Maklelow
Bridgman, William Calib
Blake, Philip Henry
Bendell, Charles
Balus, Levi . Marion
Blake, Llewellyn Week
Bl'idge, William Bayley
Boyle, Harry Louis James
Barber, Alfred Arthur
Biggs, Charles Linford
Carew, Cornelius
Carew, William Ambrose
Clark, Frederick Calvin
Claudius, Peter
Clough, George M.
Cole, Albert Samuel
Colquhoun, James Crawford
Cornwall, Henry F.
Crawford, Thomas Olin
Crowley, Charles Carlos
Crosby, Daniel

MEMBERS:
DePuy, Anson Augustina
DePuy, Edward Spence
Dickson, Richard
Du.r ant, Francis Alex.
Dicken, Charles ~dward Lee
Everett, Thomas Burton
Fehnemann, Benjamin
Fording, Howard William
Fraser, Walter Henry, P. M.
Frost, Andrew Nisson, P. M.
·Finkenstedt, George
Fake, Gtiorge
Uates, Edmund
Gates, Elwin William
Gibbens, Edward Louis
Greenman, Charles Hydron, P. M.
Gustafsen, August
Graham, William Wagner
Graf, Walter Henry
Hammel, Julius C., P. M.
Harding, George

ROSTER.

426
Holst, Peter Mathisen
Holman, Edward Allen
Hultquist, Peter Earnest
Hansen, Peter Erland
Hughes, Charles
Howkins, Alfred
Holton, Franklin Alex.
Hackett, William Henry
Hambleton, Thomas Clair
Ingle, Elbert Quincey
Johnson, John
Kendrick, William
Leve, Marcus Solomanson
Lund, George Emil
Lubbock, Oswald John
Lepori, Constantine
Masterman, John Chester
Maus, Charles Frederick
Merkel, George Karl
Manning, Wilder Munson
Merrill, William Francis
Mowbray, Henry Buckingham
McArthur, John
McEwen, John Cameron
McDonnell, Noble Ale-x; Johnson
Nordman, Peter
Post, Philip Joseph
Pladwell, Franklin Townsend

Rawson, William HeI1ry
Rice, William Frederick
Roane, Robert Heron
Rudland, Arthur Charles
Rounsevell, Philip Nelson
Rosseter, Frank Stuart
Slavan, James P., P. M.
Snow, Arthur Pliny
Stromer, John Antone
Storch, Hugo William
Schenck, Stephen Alex. Douglas
Stow, Frank Lee
Thornalley, William u., Sr.
Thornalley, William G., Jr., P. M.
Tyack, Henry
Tomlinson, Josiah
Thorsted, Peter Jansen
Truitt, Harry Elsworth
Wightman, Minor
Williams, David Greenleaf
Whitaker, Lucian Myron
Walton, Jacob Philip
Walker, Herman Otto
Williams, Robert Henry
Wiggenton, James W .
Williams, John Edward
Williams, George Francis
-97.

ROSTER.

"

•

...

Broder, Joseph
Davis, John James
Davis, William Augustus
Dorman, John Henry
Dow, David Winter
Edwards, Thomas
Fenwick, John Frederick
Freund, Edmund, P. M.
FUlton, John Weir
Gabbs, John Lincoln
Garwood, William Simpson, P. M.
Gates, Isaac Newman
George, Frederick Robert
Glick, John Alva
Goodfriend, Aaron Isaac
Gordon, Luther de Wayne
Harris, Eugene R.
Harris, Thomas Allen
Hodgkins, George Melvin
Howser, William Willard
Hughes, Jacob Erratt
Huntington, Ralph Stanley
Huchbect, Clarence
Jeffery, Edward John
Jochem, Fred
Jones, George, P. M.

427

Jones, Harry Lorenzo
Jones, Seneca
Knudsen, Louie
Le Bourveau, John Fr.rnklin
McCown, William Evans
McNaughton, William Francis
Moignard, Philip Rich<trd
Moiles, Theo. Despard
Narbett, James Thomas Syrian
Nicholls, Harvey Bartlett
Nuttall, William
Odell, Clarene.e Archer
Paul, Alvin A.
Polson, Paul
Powers, Herbert George, P. M.
Quinn, James William
Reid, Edmund Robert
Rodney, Hiram Ault
Rowlando, Matthew Arthur
Shaecker, George Oliver
Sherman, Francis Harvey
Sullenger, Albert Noah
Thomas, Charles Philip
Thompson, David
Turner, Manley Mansfield
Yates, Henry Newton-58.

SAN JACINTO LODGE, No. 338.
San Jacinto, Riverside County.

CARQUINEZ LODGE, No. 337·

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of ·or 'next preceding Full Moon.

Crockett, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Lincoln Gabbs~ Master,
·Jacob Erratt Hughes, Senior Deacon,
John Henry Dorman, Sen. Warden, David _Winter Dow, Junior Deacon,
Alvin A. Paul, Junior Warden,
Eugene R. Harris, Marshal,
George Jones, Treasurer,
Francis Harvey Sherman, Steward,
Herbert Geo. Powers, Secretary,
John Christian Anderson, Steward,
Geo. Herbert Whiteman, Chaplain, John M. Alexander, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barnard, Leo Harcourt
Alexander, John McLay
Beam, Arthur Wellesley, P. M.
Astleford, Robert Jones
Beda, Paul
Bahney, Luther William

.'

OFFICERS:
Ellis Theo. Tanner, Master,
George Franklin Hunt, Sen. Deacon,
Wallace G. Martin, Senior Warden, Hugh Roy Goff, Junior Deacon,
George Grove, Junior Warden,
Frank A. Druding, Marshal,
Mauri ce Goodstrin, Treasurer,
William Donaldson Ja~obs, Steward,
Gustave Matthews, Secretary,
Harry H. Van Dusen, Steward,
Josep~ Edw. Blackshaw, Chaplain, Rocky Mountain Thomas, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Black, Samuel
Aleksa, Girolamo
Blair, Alex.
Anderson, Everett Johnson
Blackshaw, Jos. Edward, P. M.
Ballou, William Addis
Blackshaw, Jos. Benjamin,
Bell, Robert Lemuel
Blockburn, Fred Abnrr
Bingham, Samuel John

ROSTER.

428

Canon, Solomon Royce
Clevior, James George
Cogan, Philip Joseph
Crofton, Robert Augustus
Druding, Frank Anthony
Edwards, Edward Frederick
Ferguson, James Franklin
Goff, Hugh Roy
Goodstein, Maurice
Grover, George
Hudson, Tho~as Wade
Hunt, George Franklin
Huntoon, Joseph Horton
Jacobs, William Donaldson
Kn'app, Edward Burke
Ladd, Zaceheus Ezra
Lawson, Andrew Nels
La Rue, Jeremiah
Martin, Wallace Gustave
Martin, Frederick Clinton
Matthews, Gustave, P. M.
Minor, Edwin
Maxwell, James Baker
Molyneux, Robert Sefton

McCue, Joseph Benton
Nelson, Henry Coffy'
Otto, Henry
Ryan, John
Roulston, Robert John
Sager, Edgar Pendleton
Sears, William J.
Scherman, Anton
Shaug, Charles J.
Smith, Homer Albert
Smith, Selvester Kincade
Snyder, Ferdinand, Jr.
Strasser, Frederick Karl
Swezea, Jay
Thomas, Rocky Mountain
Tanner, Ellis Theo., P. M.
Ticknor, Jason Charles
Van Dusen, Harry Hartman
Vosburg, William Gates, P. M.
Waller, Henry George
Walker, Fred
Waterman, Julius Max
Wilson, William
-57.

FULLERTON LODGE, No. 339.
Fullerton, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pre('eding Full :11/[oon.
OFFICERS:
Ralph Evans Holloway, Master,
Chas. Edward Raddock, Sen. Deacon,
C. Earl McFadden, Sen. Warden,
Louis Ely Stephens, Junior Deacon,
Meredith Conway, Junior Warden,
William Thomas Brown, Marshal,
Elmer William Dean, Treasurer,
George Albert Rudduck, Steward,
Jas. Garland Delozier, Secretary,
George Chancey Welton, Steward,
William Eugene Burgess, Tyler.

Amerige, Edward Russell
Barnes, Wilson Asa
Beaizley, Theophilus
Benchley, Edward Kellogg

MEMBERS:
Benchley, William Leonidas
Berkenstock, William
Bradfield, Elias Harvey
Braly, John Claude

II

ROSTER.
Brewer, Edward Wellington
Brown, William Thomas
Case, George McClellan
Chilton, Jesse
Christie, Samuel Longhead
Clark, George Cook, P. M.
Connoly, William Arthur
Conway, Meredith
Craig, Guy
Coulter, William Fair
Culmer, Edward Cruse
Cunningham, James J,loyd
Dahlman, Ludwig
Delozier, J. G.
Daniel, Charles
Davis, James Franklin, P. M.
Dean, Elmer Williams
East, James
Fairbanks, James Francis
Ford, Charles Keith
Ford, Elmer R.
Ford, James Ezekiel
Fowler, Franklin Lee
Frankenberger, Joseph Idell
Freeman, ~Janson Willey
Freeman,. William, P. M.
Fritz, Michael
Gardiner, John Reeder
Garrison, Thomas Landon
Good, Matthew Melancthon, P. M.
Haas, Charles Edwin
'Hale, Willie Lee
Hamlin, William Lee
Hamm, Lewis
Hanst, Jacob George
Head, Horace Caldwell
Harding, James
Henderson, Alex.
Holcomb, Francis Reuben
Holloway, Ralph Ev.ans, P. M.
Holser, Raymond Frederick

'429

Kammerer, George
Kammerer, William
Kreighbaum, Oscar Adelbert
Leslie, William Lincoln
Lester, Calvin Devore
Lillie, Orin Wilson
Lillie, Squire Joshua, P. M.
Lotz, Charles Edwin
Lotz, John Henry
Marks, Emerson Joseph
Marshall, John Lundy
McBride, Francis
McBride, Walter
McDermont, Arthur
McFadden, Clarence Earl
M.elrose, Richard
Miles, George Francis
Mills, Charles Newton
Munday, Walter Linville
Pendergrast, Albert Austin
Pendleton, Alexis Theo.
Pitt, John Frank
Pomeroy, Albert Walter
Porter, Charles George
Redelberger, Fred
Reese, Paul
Rich, Clayton L.
Ruddock, Charles Edward
Ruddock, George Albert
Robb, Charles James
Saine, David Thomas
Schulte, Henry John
Small, Ciifton Mordamt
Smith, Clinton Howard
Staley, Arthur, P. M.
Stephens, Rosco William
Wintters, William Jacob
Witmer, .Jacob
Wiebers, Henry Max
Woodruff, Walter Jonathan
-89.

ROSTER.

430

•

SANTA MARIA LODGE, No. 340.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday succeeding Full Moon.

..

OFFICERS:

Oxnard, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ray Dean Snively, Master,
Robert Percy Smith, Senior Deacon,
Robert B. Edmondson, Sen. Warden, Max A. Plumb, Junior Deacon,
Wm. R. Livingston, Jun. Warden,
Samuel B. Bagnall, Marshal,
Achille Levy, Treasurer,
Albert Clayton Petit, Steward,
Thomas E. Walker, Secretary,
Earl .Viles, Steward,
Alfred Biggs Rodaway, Chaplain,
.Barclay S. Braddock, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Hobson, Clarence Jay
Herring, Edward Lewis
Ingram, John
Jansen, Robert Christensen
Kemp, William Park, P. M.
Kelly, Hugh SylveBter
Lapez, Joseph Virgil
Martfo, John Henry
Martin, John Howard
Mattie, Felis ·
Mc Can, John Earl
McMurray, Theo. ~elem
Miller, James Patterson
Miller, Wayne Anthony
Morris, Louis Joseph, P. M.
Muscio, Guisepi
Nelson, Robert Andrew
Oliver, Manuel
Pierce, Francis Ogden
Patterson, Adison Austin
Perraud, Antonio
Parish, Ernest J.
Pratt, Ularence Melton
Pierce, William A.
Rice, Charles Lee
Reghetti, Elvizo
Strahan, William. Calvin
Seely, .Jamrs Watt
~reward, J os£ph Ross
Tunndl, George Robert-6).

431

OXNARD LODGE, No. 341.

Robert W. Brown, Senior Deacon,
Elbert E. Blosser, Master,
Robert Wesley Earl, Sen. Warden, Charles Lee Rice, Junior D.eacon,
Lambert B. Coblentz, Jun. Warden, Thomas Boyd, Marshal,
Samuel Taney Coiner, •rreasuru,
Marks Fleisher, Steward,
Lewis Llewelleon Colvin, Secretary, Charles G. Dobson, Steward,
Samuel Fleisher, Chaplain,
James H. Hayden, Tyler.
Alverado, William Pablo
Blosser, Garett Lorenzo
Blosser, Elbert Eldridge, P. M.
Bonette, John Baptist
Boyd, John·
Boyd, Thomas
Brown, Robert Wesley
Blosser, David Martin
Brennan, John Kerran
Barca, Marten Antonio
Coker, Francis Martin
Colvin, Lewis Llewelleon
Coiner, Samuel Fancy
Coblentz, Lambert B.
Davis, Dalis Denver
Davis, Bainard
Earl, Robert Wesley
Elliot, Walter, P. M.
Elliot, George
Elliot, James Wesley
Finley, Theo. Randolph, P. M.
Fox, Llellyn Lawrence
Fry, Herman Constantino
Gutherie, Charles Merrion
Glines, Robert Cassius.
Hartley, James Benton
Reisher, Marks, P. M.
Reisher, Samuel, P. M.
Helvey, Alfred Allen
Hemingway, George

ROSTER.

•

MEMBERS:
Avery, John Howard
Dilworth, William Dennis•m
Argabrite, John Riley
Dickerson, William Warren
Alvord, Julius Bela
Dwire, Dermont
Arnold, Charles Rupert
Dunn, Oliver Benjamin
Beardsley, Robert Lee
Dreher, Gustav Peter
Broughton, George Anthony
Dorn, Charles I.
Brewster, Elbert Pineo
Eastwood, George Edmond
Bellah, George Rolen
Engstrum, Frans Otto
Braddock, Barclay Stokes
Engstrum, Frederick Edgar
Beasley, ·Henry Charles
Emtman, Theo.
Bruckman, Christopher
Elliott, Charles John
Bard, Thomas Robert
Ely, Martin Juda
Baum, George ·
Edmondson, Robert Buchanan
Buckley, August
Fulkerson, James Frederick
Black, Edward Jacob
Fulkerson, Jonathan Floid
Boschke, Guy
Gourlay, Arthur
Browne, Albert 0 'Brien .
Gabbert, .Thomas Y.
Bayley, Charles Homer
Glenn, Jesse Lee
Blackstock, Charles Fidelis
Gill, Ernest David
Bovee, Henry Hopkins
Gill, Alexander
Bagnall, Samuel Bremner
Gill, Charles Alex.
Carver, Harry Bernice
Uoodyear, William Ernest
Carr, Philetus Sprague, P. M.
Gove, Millard Paine
Carr, Earle, P. M.
Griffith, James Keating
Carr, Martin Van Buren
Hatcli, Roger Knox
Coen, Othello Jerome
Hawkins, Alonzo
Crowley, Wilham Henry
Haydock, Richard Barrett, P. M.
Cornell, Charles Henry, P. M.
Heckman, John
Cook, Leon H.
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard
Coultas, William Walter
Herlick, J essenius
Coultas, Alex. Evert
Hetrick, Jasper
Coultas, Thomas Arthur
Hill, Ernest Rice
Driffill, James Alex., P. M.
Hitch, James Wilson

432
Hoffman, Roy B.
Holst, Bendix
Hood, Theo. Frelan H.
Roswell, Jeremiah Trone
Howland, James L.
Hughes, Edward Thomaa
Johnson, John Samuel, P. M.
Jennings, Robert
Kastle, John
Knight, illy Grant
Lang, James Elton
Le Blanc, Thomas Sydney
Lehmann, Leon, P. M.
Lehmann, Mathew
Lehmann, Edmond
Lehmann, Paul
Lamb, Harry Ralph
Levy, Achille
Levy, Henry
Livingston, Robert George, P. M.
Livingston, William Reinhardt
Leavitt, Norman Jenkins
Lambert, Herbert Smith
Lodwig, Augustus Carl
Lotheridge, Orson Stiles
Marx, Charles
Meyers, Benjamin Franklin
Myers, John Hyland
Murray, Joseph Henry
Miller, Joseph Charles
Mack, Soloman Lawrence, P. M.
McMillan, William James
Mcinnes, William Joseph
Petit, Frank
P etit, Albert Clayton
Pettis, Frank Brockman
Parish, John Wesley
Plumb, Max Alaric
Poggi, Isaac Martin, P. M.
Powell, Heber Chase
Rice, Thomas Alex.
Rice, Paul Alvin
Rice, Ernest Everet
Roth, Samuel Dean
Rodaway, Alfred Biggs
Rose, Jacob Walter

ROSTER.
Spence, Jay
Snow, Hiram King; Jr.
Shillingston, James Wesley
Snively, Ray Dean
Smith, Alvin Billings
Smith, Robert Percy
Smith, Charles Thomas Elmer
Smith, Winfield Scott
SnydH, Harry Nicholas
Snyder, Frederick Autes
Saviers, Winfield Sco't t
Styles, Augustus Parker
Steinmiller, John
Stewart, Isaac William
Sebastian, John Louis
Sebastian, Robert Milton ·
Sebastian Alfred Tennyson
Shone, Edward
Small, John Ada~s
Seekatz, George Philip
Short, Eli John Bird
Thurston, Albert LeRoy
Turney, Douglas
Thatcher, Amos Davis
Thatcher, Harry Seymoure
Thatcher, Hugh Arlington
Thatcher, Fred Hwitzell
Turbett, Alvarado Doremus
Turbett, John Smi.th
Virden, Benjamin S.
Vennink, Henry Leonard
Vickers, Ashby Christian
Viles, Earl
Walker, Thomas Eaton
Waterman, William Max
Waterman, Emil Max
Witman, Henry William, P. M.
Witman, Roy Bradfield
Wadleigh, Orville Austin
Weill, Sam
Wineman, Henry Leonard
Wineman, Alvan Harold
Wineman, Murray JaY.
Wellington, Lorenzo Dow
Whitmore, Charles Abbott
Wolff, Moise L2'7a.rre--158.

ROSTER.

•

433

MANILA LODGE, No. 342.
·Manila, Philippine Islands.

•

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each ·month .
OFFICERS:
Lee Allen Parkinson, Master,
Wilson A. Blossom, Sen. Deacon,
Luther Ab. Renner, Sen. Warden, Nace Wittenberger, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. Northup Hurd, Jun. Warden, Charles Jacob Kindler, Marshal,
Geo. Washington Vilain, Treasurer; George I. Frank, Steward,
Manuel Camus Roxas, Secretary,
George Corper, Steward,
Chas. Maxwell Colton, Chaplain,
Dwen M. Adams, Tyler.

'

Adams, Owen M. ·
Adams, Ferrel
Agnew, William Burl
Ainsworth, James Everett
Allan, Arthur Spelman
Austin, George Henry
Bach, John
Baker, William Pitt
Baldwin, Robert Caleb
Ballin, Alfred
Bardelson, Samuel
Barr, Robert Frederick
Barner, John Emil
Beach, John Hartwell
Bellis, Amos G.
Bernhard, John. George
Best, Wm. R. Llewellyn, P. M.
Beyer, Charles William
Bills, Albert James
Bingham, William Otterlin
Bish, William Nelson
Black, Henry James
Blossom, Dallas Emerson
Blossom, Wilson Ansel
Boor, James Garfield
Bowers, James Newlin
Breaker, Frederick William
Breszee, Hugh Spencer
Brock, Leo
Brower, Charles Clinton
Brown, Bernard Herbert
Brown, George Edward
Bruening, William Herman
28

MEMBERS:
Brurein, Charles John
Burritt, Charles Henry, P. M.
Burton, Joseph Harvey
Cahling, Axel Rudolph
Campbell, Louis Joseph
Casaday, George Harry
Chadwick, Harry Richmond
Chandler, William D.
Christensen, Waldemar Alfred
Cobb, David Lewis
Cody, Frank Jay
Colbert, Perry Dudley
Collins, Patrick J _oseph
Colton, Charles Maxwell
Cook, Ernest Bradford
-Cook, William Harris
Cooper, Henry Richardson
Corey, Charles Dunn
Cowdrey, Clarence Eugene
Craig, Emmett Junius
Creagh, Merrick Woodman
Cromwell, Ellis
Cromwell, Frederick Thomas
Crowley, Thomas Francis
. Cruse, Thomas
Cullen, Gilbert Isham
Deichman, Carl Frederick
Dell, Robert Victor
Deyo, Arthur Eugene
Doran, John Henry
Drees, Franklin Henry
Du Bois, Franklin Thomas
Due, Jackson Angelo

434
Du Jresne, Ernest Faustine
Durham, Jacob McClay
Edmiston, John Freebie
Elser, Henry William
England, Herbert F. Townley'
Enright, John Edwin
Ernst, John, Jr.
Fagerquist, Carl August
Fawcett, John
Fayant, Joseph
Fels, John Gustav
Ferrier, Francis Coote
Fischer, John
Fisher, Frederick Charles
Fletcher, Harrison Otis
Focker, Frederick John Charles
Foehrenbach, Francis
Frank, George I.
Gaches, Samuel Francis
Gard, Adam R.
Garrett, Milan Jay
Gerdes, Claudius W.
Gibbens, Leo Thomas
Gilbert, George Wesley
Golt, John Thomas
Goodrich, Jay Cottam
Grant, Louis T.heo., P. M.
Glaves, Benjamin Hugh
Gray, William Smith
Greenwell, Samuel Alex.
Hale, Walter Franklin
Hamilton, Matthew
Hammer, Hubert H.
Harding, John Ellery
Hargis, Lionel Desmond
Harn, Wilson Winslow
Harper, Frank Walter Fred
Harris, Emory Lorenzo
Harstedt, William Henry
Harvell, James Ephraim
Harvey, Stuart Smeillie
Roswell, William Clark
Hanek, John Frederick
Heinrich, Julius
Heppert, Albert George
Hillgrove, Thomas Albert

ROSTER.
Hogan, David Durnard
Holland, Guy
·
Horan, John Joseph
Hurd, George N orthops
Ilse, Ludwig
Jenkins, John H.
Johnson, Louis Marsena
Jones, Alfred Belcher
Kahl, Otto Henry
Kanekl, Julian S.
Kernan, John
Kindler, Charles Jacob
King, Hiram Woodward
King, William Johnston
Kipp, William J.
Kirk, William
Koehler, Robert Gano
Krook, Lenus Gustaf 'fheo.
Lane, Frank Cyrus ·
Lang, Louis Magnus
Lay, William Grant
Lear, Ben, Jr.
Libby, Percy Campbell
Loomis, Ira
Lynch, 'Valter
Lyons, Charles Truman
MacDonald, Alex.
Mainland, Henry
Manchester, Louis Bertram
Manning, Lawrence Warren
Margelin, Julius
Marquardt, Walter William
Mars, James Andrew
Marshall, James Edward
Mason, George Cooper
Masters, William George
Maynard, John
McCrory, Robert Morton
McDonald, John Francis
Mcintyre, William Hoyt
McKay, James
McLaughlin, Wendell
Miller, Alex.
Miller, James
Miller, John Thompson
Miller, Thomas Cavin

•

ROSTER.

..

~

.

I

..

Mitchell, George Richard Carmen
Mizell, Chatham
Monson, Morton Lawrence
Moody, Joseph Elbert
Moulden, William· Raymond
Nathorst, Charles Edward
N eisser, Stanislaus Maximillian
Nichols; Taylor Abraham
O'Brien, Charles :William
O'Connell, Thomas James ·
O'Donovan, John James
Oliver, Ernest Warner
Oppenheimer, Zachary
Osgood, Harry Douglas
Ostrand, James Adolph
Parkinson, Lee Allen
Patstone, Lewis
Peabody, Henry Sterling
Peat, James Bonner
Perrine, Francis Joseph
Quinn, James Francis
Ramsey, William Russell
Rankin, Adam Warrell
Reinhart, Allan
Renner, Luther Abraham
Richards, Benjamin Franklin
Richards, William Wilson
Ross, James Grant
Roxas, Manuel Camus
Ryer, Andrew George
Satterthwaite, George William
Schunming, Edward August Wm.
Schysull, August
Schlitt, William Andrew
Schlotfeld, Frederick J. Osbjorn
Schoendube, Chas. Albert Harry
· Scott, Mark
Scott, Robert Brought
Seaver, George Henry
Seibert, Albert Nicholas
Selvidge, Joseph Burnside
Seybolt, George Ernest
Sharman, Herbert
Sheaser, Lawrence M.
Sherman, William Edward
Shoemaker, Clifford

Shuler, Joseph George
Silk, Charles
Simmons, Charles Mercur
Simpson, Walter Henry
Slee, John Gregory
Smith, Charles A.yron
Smith, James Eugene
Smith, William John
Soll, Charles Harold
Springer, Milton Earle, P. M.
Squier, Herman Grey, P. M.
Squire, Charles Henry
Stafford, Harry Eugene, P. M.
Stevens, Ernest Nichols
Stevenson, John Speer
Stratford, Frank Cornish
Strattan, Guy
Thebaut, William Maxwell
Thomas, Alvin James
Thompson, William Ve9sey
Thomson, Thomas W.
'l'urner, Allan Donald McGregor
Van Hoesen, William Fraleigh
Vaughn, George Irwin
Veutorini, Nicholas Teodor
Vilain, George Washington
Waddington, James Sholefteld
Waganer, Clark Eugene
Walker, Ashley Cabrill
Walker, John T.
Walker, Joynee Harwood
Walstrom, David
Walters, Henry Llewellyn
Walters, Thomas Edward
Warwick, Clar.e nce Allen
Watt, Charles Dewar
Webster, Frank Daniel
Weise, Emil Ernst
Weltner, Charles Burch
Wescott, Harold Edward
Westdath, Lawrence Hawley
Weston, Warren Wallace
White, Frank Russell
~ilrler, Whitford Thompson
Williams, Charles Absalom
V.illiams, Charles Erlwin

435

ROSTER.

436
Williams, Richard Lewis
Wilson, Walter Eli
Wittenberger, Nace

ROSTER.

Wolff, Thomas John
\Volfson, Joseph Napoleon
Wright, Albert Pleasant-256.

STARR KING . LODGE, No. 344.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

•
SAN FERNANDO LODGE, No. 343.
San Fernando, Los Angeles County. .
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry C. .Allen, Master;
James H. Jenifer, Senior Deacon,
John G. Mackey, Senior Warden,
Charles N. Myrick, Junior Deacon,
Wm. H. Matthews, Junior Warden Jacob Harps, Marshal,
Frank Larue Troxel, Treasurer,
James E. Wheat, Steward,
Fred E. Strader, Secretary,
Edwin H. Schinger, Steward,
Clifton W. Judy, Chaplain,
John H. Barclay, Tyler.
MEM:BERS:
Abel, Alex.
Kidder, Frank Allen
Aiken, John Martin
Mackey, John Galbrath
Allen, Henry Cornell
Martin, Thomas Peter
Allen, John Wesley
Matthews, William Henry
Bailey, George Herbert
McCandless, Charles William
Barclay, John Hugh
Munro, John, P. M.
Brown, James Dougal
Myrick, Charles Nelson
Burr, John, P . M.
Olin, Dwight B.
Burr, William Thomas, P. M.
Powell, John Francis
Danila, Elmo Charles
Rickels, Thomas
DeArmand, Roy
Rinaldi, Carl Robert
Dodd, Miles William
Rinaldi, Otto Franklin
Erwin, William Francis S.
Royce, George
Evans, Roderick Dhu
Schinger, Edwin Henry
Folger, Wilber Barton
Bedwell, George William
Fraser, Simon K.
Strader, Fred E.
Gifford, John Timothy
Symons, Charles
Harps, Jacob
Troxel, Frank Larue
Hawk, Charles Whetzel
.Wagner, Claude C.
Hogan, Charles Sturdivant
Walker, Thomas James
Hopkins, Charles Chapin
Weldon, Arthur
Hubbard, Henry Cutler
Wheat, James Edgar
Jenifer, James H.
Whitman, Adorna Alial
Judy, Clifton Wilson
Wright, Francis Marion.
Keller, Theo. Emmanuel
-49.

..
•

OFFICERS:
William Arthur Keller, Master,
Solomon Deutllch, Senior Deacon,
Arnold Glaser, Senior Warden,
Albert M. Lester, Junior Deacon,
Wm. John Kidd, Junior Warden,
Harry L. Simon, Marshal,
Albert H. Leaf, Treasurer,
Charles M. Hackmire, Steward,
Hiram French Wright, Secretary,
Charles M. Wollenberg, Steward,
John Henry Sampson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abrahams, Abe
Daniels, George Eaton
Abrahams, Myer
Daniels, Roy Alonson
Alpers, Aaron Albert
Davis, Burris Kincaid
Baer, Louis
Davis, Philip
Baker, William John
David, Isaac Lazarus
Bernard, Samuel
Deutsch, Ferdinand
Bernstein, Jacob Alfrerl
Deutsch, Solomon
Benham, George Bates
Dinkelspeil, Henry George W.
Bernard, Emil Anthony
Duwer, August Paul
Berry, Gustia Shield
Dethlefeon, Fred
Blackman, Oscar Lemuel
Dudley, Tyler
Blackman, Morris Jacob
Elser, Edwin Emile
Blackman, Ellis Aaron
Eschen, Lee
Blume, Mier
Farley, Frank Eugene
Boyd, _Robert
Fletcher, Claude Mathew
Bright, Joseph Aaron, P. M.
. Ford, John Frankli~
Bray, Arthur
Franklin, Harry Paul
Brownstone, Louis H.
Friedlander, Melville Lewis
Bush, Ira Charles
Friedman, Henry
Brandenstein, Henry U.
Gale, Milton
Cale, Francis Moses
Garren, David
Carlson, Mathew A.
Gates, Alex. Warren
Chollet, Henry Edward
Gilbert, James Dillon
Cohn, Adolph, P. M.
Gilbert, Leo
Cohn, Carl
Glaser, Arnold
Cohn, Max
Glaser, Michaelis
Cohn, Harry
Glass, Arthur.
Cohen, Baruch
Goldman, Isaac
Codington, Arthur Davicl _
Goodman, Joseph, P. M.
Cooper, Abraham
Goodman, Isaac
Cooper, John Freeman
Grange, Louie August
Crow, Samuel Marmaduke
Green, Isador S.
Curtaz, Oscar Hugo
Hagerdon, Charles Henry

437

438

Hall, Andrew Leslie
Hackmier, Charles M.
Heath, Benjamin, Jr.
Herzog, Henry Joseph
Herzog, William Melville
Higgins, Solomon Franklin
Hirsh, Samuel
·
Hirshberg, David Samuel, P. M.
Hirshfeld, Isidor Morris
Hirshfeld, Peter
Hislop, Robert Cooper
Howe, Harvie Bosworth
Iberson, Robert T.
Jacobs, David
Johnson, Delius Oscar
Katchinski, Bernard
Katz, Arthur S.
Keller, Henry A., P. M.
Keller, William Arthur
Kidd, William John
Leaf, Albert Henry
Leland, Thomas Byers Wood
Lemoine, Emil August
•L eopold, Samuel
London, Mortimer A.
Lester, Albert Mona
Levicy, Starling Clark
Levy, Maurice Thomas
Liebling, Samuel'.
Lillie, William Adam
Littlefield, James Marqhall
Lobree, Aaron Allen
Lunger, Harry Elmer
Lyilch, James Francis
Marston, Walter Harmon
Martin, William Augustus
Mayer, Emanuel Belasco
McNab, Gavin
Mish, Solomon Gerson
Myers, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Meinhardt, John David
Nadel, Louis
Nathan, Herman
Nathan, Louis David
Neumann, Edward Rudolph

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Neumann, William Frederick
Nielson, Wilhelm
Openheim, Samuel Philip
Owen, Ferguson
Patrick, Harry Wallace
Rafael, John
Rechsteiner, Emile August
Rehnstrom, Charles H.
Robinson, John Lee
Rombah, William
Roberts, Adam
Rollins, Edwin Oregon
Salomon, Benjamin Ira
Samuels, Jacob
Sampson, Frank Robert
Sampson, John Henry
Schmidt, Theo.
Schantz, Isaac Biehn, P. M.
Scott, Joseph Harry
Sexton, Horace Chapin
Simon, Harry Lewis
Smith, Thomas
Speck, John Henry
Smith, Harry L.
Spencer, Carlington Theo.
Stevens, Myron Munson
Strine, George Wesley
Tonkin, James Varco
Truman, Charles Henry Jacob
Unger, Isidor
Wegener, George Nich')las
Wehser, Will Emil
Weir, James
Weidenthal, Samuel H.
Wendling, George Xavier
Williams, William Robert
Withington, Charles W.
Wittman, William George
Wolfenden, George Carlile, P. M.
Wolfe, Edward I.
Wollenberg, Charles M.
Worster, William Dennntt
Wright, Hiram French
Yeatman, John Andrew

-155.

439

BRENTWOOD LODGE; No. 345.

.

Brentwood, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Byron L. Grigsby, Ma.iter,
Orlando C. Prewett, Senior Warden,
George Munn, Junior Warden,
George Ludinghouse, Treasurer,
Robert Wallace, Jr., Secretary,
MEMBERS:

•

Agnew, Jesse
Babb, George Alfred
Bettens, Albert
Bonnickson, Hans
Boyd, John
Boydston, Erwin Johnson
Boydston, Ulysses Amhler
Bridges, Aaron
Brown, Frank Thomas
Collis, Austin Watson
Cowan, Charles
Dean, Alden Ora
Estes, Frederick · Raymond
Estes, William Jefferson
Gardner, Robert
Glass, George Walter
Grey, Minion Edward
Grigsby, Byron Lindsey
Grigsby, Warren Miller
Harley, Sherman Ellsworth
Hinebaugh, Walter Broox
Jereslaw, Will, P. M.

Kelley, Fernando Gus
Koppernd, Anders Harold
Lemoin, Ruben
Lucksinger, Frederick M.
Ludinghouse, George Henry
McCabe, Roy Lester, P. M.
McKean, William Giles
Morgans, Watkins Philip
Morgans, William Watkins
Nason, James Edward
Nunn, George
Pearson, Frank
Prewett, Orlando Columbue
Russell, George Clifford
Shafer, George Henry
Shellenberger, Charles Tliom:i.s
Stone, Harry
Taylor, Volney
Veal, William Worth
Wallace, Robert, P. M.
Weihe, Frederick William
Williamson, William Colbert -41.

PALO ALTO LODGE, No. 346.
Palo Alt~, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Milton Benjamin Roller, Master,
Wm. Benj. Allen, Sen. Deacon,
Albert N. Umphreys, Sen. Warden, Geo. Wash. Harms, Jun. Deacon,
Emil F. Weisshaar, Jun. Warden, Clarence Eugene Henry, . Marshal,
John Fletcher Byxbee, Treasurer,
Arthur Roller, Steward,
William Clowes Werry, Secretary, John Duncan Boyd, Steward,
James Caivin Foss, Chaplain,
Richard Werry, Tyler.

4!0

ROSTER.

ROSTE~.

MEMBERS:
LaPeire, Edwin Arna~d
Ackley, Edward
Allen, William Benjamin
Laumeister, Gustav
Lausten, Brousen Peter
Atterbury, Charles Delaplane
Barker, Lewis Harmon, P. M.
Lockey, Richard, Jr.
Barrett, Frank
Loeser, Robert M.
Mahany, Henry John Wade
Bille, George Christian
Martin, Ernest Whitney .
Black, Marshall
Martin, James Dicl!:ason
Blackman, Harolcl Stabler
May, John
Blake, Thomas Barnard
Meares, John London
Boyd, John Duncan
Miller, Clark Flickner
Braunschweiger, Edward
Monzingo, John Johnson
Burke, William Edmund
Morris, J'oseph Jonathan
Byxbee, John Fletcher
Campbell, Henry Avery
McDowell, John Ezra
Childs, Clarence E.
Palmateer, Theron Josiah
Patrick, William
(,Jack, George Sydney
Patterson,· Henry Samuel
Clack, Sydney
Patton, John Quincy
Clute, Elbert Schuyler
Perry, Henry Fates
Cochran, Thomas Craig
Crabtree, David Montgomery
Ramsay, Hugh A., P. M.
Reinhart, Jacob Henry
Crooks, John Chisholm
Dean, William ·
Roller, Arthur
Roller, Josiah Wickerd, P. M.
Decker, Charles William, P. M.
Roller, Milton Benjamin
Downing, Claude Stanrrish
Ryan, Shirley Bell
J?udfield, John
Saunders, Arthur Bertram
Duncan, Peter Young
Schwarzkopf, Rudolph Herman
Duryea, Edward, Jr.
Simkins, Henry Walter
Evans, John Jeremiah
Sonnickson, Andrew Outzen
Ferguson, Aleck Sanford
Spencer, Allan Thomas
Firebaugh, Charles Ludwig
Spencer, John
Foss, James Galvin
Strong, Sylvester
Gallagher, Gustave Charles
Taylor, Charles Marvin
Gilman, Philip Kingsnorth
Taylor, Edwin Lothrope
Gilman, Charles Edward
Taylor, Henry Thomas
Goodman, Theodore Henry
Taylor, Rodman M.
Griffin, James Owen
Thoits; Willis Clifford
Haehl, Harry Lewis
Thompson, Philip Johnson
Hall, George Elbert
Umphreys, Albert N.
Harms, George Washington
Upham, Henry Laurens
Henry, Clarence Eugene
Walker, Charles Conwell
Hodges, Charles Edward
Walker, Lou Cain
Hughes, Watt
Wallace, Van Alstine
Hughes, William Thomas
Waring, Gerald Ashley
Johnson, John Olaf
Week, Edward, P. M.
Kaiser, Joseph Jacob

Weisshaar, Emil Florentz
Wells, James Webster
Werry, Richard
Werry, William Clowes
Williams, George

441

Winsor, Anon A.
Woods, Ira McMicken
Yost, George Herbert
Zschokke, Theo. Christian

-99

McKINLEY LO_D GE, No. 347.
Richmond, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

.

OFFICERS:
Palen Church, Master,
John H. Gregory, Sen. Warden,
Wm. H. Johnston, Jun. Warden,
John Richard Nystrom, Treasurer,
Ed. l3rackett Willets, Secretary,
David Walker Calfee, Chaplain,

Alex. H. Campbell, Sen. Deacon,
Fredrick Schone, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Scott Bennison, Marshal,
Wm. Alex. Leight, Steward,
Frank McV. Palmer, Steward,
John Roth, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

•\.

'

I

Boorman, Benjamin
Belding, William Forsythe
Barney, Hawley Nathan, P. M.
Benison, Walter Scott
.Brown, Warren Bateman
Barnhouse, Howard Remus
Blake, Charles Robert
Church, Palen
Campbell, Palmerston Cornick
Cowan, Charles Henry
Clark, Marvin Talor
C:ritchett, Frank
Campbell, Archibald Hamilton
Davis, Daniel David
Dolan, Edward
Down, Fred Robert
Ells, Harry, P. M.
Eakle, John Barrett
Follett, Geary Alton, P. M.
Fitzpatrick, Patrick B.
Fenwick, William Brownlee
Forster, (;arl Emil
Fox, William Alex.
Gillispie, Robert
Gregory, John Hamilton

Hammill, Eddie Luman
Hopkins, David
Hulse, John Sidney
Johnston, William Henry
Johnston, Milford Ray
Johnston, Henry Albert, P. M.
Johnston, William Granville
Jones, J. Shirley
Jordan, Leander Richard
Kirkwood, Edward
Kinney, Herman Bishop
Kennedy, Qharles Clark
Keeney, Thomas Jefferson
Leight, William Alexander
Lucas, William Austin
Lowman, Willie Boydkin
Leavell, Lewis Edward
Loucks, Don Anderson
Morrison,. John Mcintyre, P. M.
Murray, John
Merrill, Lewis Elmer
Mitchell, David Leroy
Martin, Joseph Sautana
Mccombs, Frank
McVicker, Archibald

ROSTER.

442

Neville, Frederick Morgan
Nystrom, John Richard
Odell, Alfeus
Parker, Robert Lee
Park, George
Peury, Henry Lincoln
Picton, William
Ragland, Jay Gould
Richards, William Miles
Roth, John
Schoen, Freder:\ck
Severio, Frank
Stitt, Winfield
Slattery, Richard Edmond
Smith, Herbert Williamson

ROSTER.

Smith, Beverly Bailes
Sutherlen, William Nelson
Trull, Walter B.
Thomas, Benj. Franklin
Topping, George Washington
Wagner, Ernest Herbert
Walker, William Andrew
Whitcomb, Charles David
Whittle, John Franklin·
Wood, Frank Goodacre
Willets, Edward Brackett
Williams, William Henry
Wright, Charles Herbert
Wylie, Oliver

•

-79

SAN BERNARDINO LODGE, No. 348.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
· Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Charles Melville Crow, Master,
Henry A. Wierwille, Sen. Deacon,
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Sen. Warden,
J. Shirley Bright, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Lear Brown, Jun. Warden,
Joseph B. Frith, Marshal,
Wm. Swayze Hooper, Treasurer,
James Shedden, Steward,
John Flagg, Secretary,
Alfred Samuel Mettler, Steward,
Charles Gorall, Chaplain,
Sydney Mee, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Albert, James Edward
Bailie, Norman Alexander
Aldridge, Marion Lafayette, P. M. Ball, William Amos
Aldridge, William David
Batchelor, Sherman G.
Allen, Byron William
Benjamin, Isaac
Allen, Oliver A.
Benson, Nels R.
Allen, William David Franklin
Bledsoe, Benj. Franklin
Allison, Charles Loran
Bledsoe, Howard
Allison, Claude H.
Bledsoe, James Blair
Allison, Monte Demoss
Bledsoe, Robert Emmett
Andreson, John, Jr.
Bledsoe, Walker Keith
Anker, Rudolph
Boehm, Hiram Jesse
Arbios, Joseph Jacob
Boggs, William Stewart
Armantage, William Lilley
Bright, J. Shirley
Armstrong, Royal Milton
Bright, Joseph Shannon, P. M.

,. '

Brill, Henry Edward
Brison, Wm. Wiley, Jr., P. M.
Brown, Archie Rutherford
Bro"w n, William Lear
Brush, Frederick Morton·
Burgoyne, George
Caldwell, Oliver Morton
Carey, Charles Francis
Carner, Jackson Ernest
Carner, James Henry
Carter, Tom Osland
Cleveland, Frank A.
Cohn, Caesar
Cole, Frank Horace
Conner, Henry
Coultrap, Clyde
Cobbs, Albert Richard
Craw, Ralph Richard
Crn tch:field, Jam es Edgar
Curtis, Isiah Hamilton
Daley, Charles Jefferson
Daley, Frank Barber
Daley, Michael Breen
Donnatin, Frank
Downer, Abner John
Draper, Joshua Clinton.
Draper, Stoddard Stevens
Dresser, Nathaniel A.
Drew, Arthur Linford
Drew, Fred Charles .
Drew, Roy Fordham
Dunn, Frederick William
Eadie, William Hunter
Eddy, Arthur James
Eikelman, John George
Esler, Frederick John
Feetham, Geo. Francis Andrews
Fisk, Oliver James
Fitting, Hans H.
Flagg, John, P. M.
Fleming, James
Frith, Joseph Breathwhite, P. M.
Fussell, Elbert Ross
Gansner, Henry Florian
Glasgow, Nathaniel B.
Glatz, Albert

443

Goran, Charles
Graham, Henry Noel
Grow, Charles Melville
Hadden, Thomas
Hall, Wheeler D.
Ham, ·Alex. McMillian
Hanf, Charles Morrill
Harbison, Robert Clelland
Harrison, John
Harrison, John Parker
Henderson, John Alexander
Higginson, Osmond Francis
Hight, John Platt
Hitchcock, William England
Hooper, William Swayze
Houghton, Lagona Derias
Howland, Harry Charles
Isreal, Joseph
·
Ingersoll, Joseph
Irving, Carl
Irving, William. Edward
Izenour, Angus Wesley
Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Johnson, John Franklin, Jr., P. M.
Jonas, Jacob Samuel
Kendall, Albert Glenn
Kelley, Stephen Francis
Kenn, William
Keyser, Howard
Levy, Henry Raphael
Levy, Morse Samuel
Levy, Samuel
Levy, William
London, Soloman
Longmire, Rufus Elbert
Loring, George Washington
Lothrop, Clinton Augustus
MacGilp.vary, Russell
Manson; William Alex.
Mettler, Alfred Samuel
Manahan, Charles William
Miller, William Henry
McElvaine, Jefferson
McElvaine, William Augustus
McCormack, Barton James
McMullen, John Calvin

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

444
McNabb, Samuel Brown Wylie
Mullen, Jay B.
Murray, Thomson Keith
Neff, Adam Adison
Neff, J. Roderick
Neff, Lawrence Wi~son
Newcomb, Leroy E.
Nye, Williain Edward
Parker, George Horace
Parker, Wilbur Melton
Peck, Elbert Charles
Pfeiffer, Louis Alexander
Phillips, John B.
Phy, John M.
Poppett, Edward
.t:>oppett, John Robert
Prescott, George Wash.
Preston, Godfrey
Rogers, Daniel Ambrose
Rogers, William Horton
Rourke, William
Rouse, Charles Augustus
Ryan, Edmond D.
Runyan, James Madison
Schlott, Dwight Coleman
Scott, Josiah Park
Shatto, Samuel M.
Shedden, James ·
Shay, Walter Alexander,

Sibley, Hiram Dell
Slamal, John
Sloat, Orrin Peck
Starbird, Edward :Palmer
Starke, William
Stevenson, Neltson Romeo
Stevenson, Oren Me.nzie,
Stiles, William Heman
Stone, Moses Phillips
Smith, James William
Smith, Victor C.
Surr, John Howard
Swarthout, Albert Riley
Thompson, Robert Scott
Thoms, Clifford Carlson
Tillapaugh, George Washington
Torstenson, Nels Otto
Tyler, Charles Beach
Wagner, Walter Douglas, P. M.
Waite, Everett Randall
Whitham, James Henry
Wierwillie, Henry Adolph
Woodling, Frank Leighton
Yarnell, John L.
Yerkes, James Houston
Young, Howard
Young, Walter
Zombro, Sumpter F.
-178

SEQUOIA LODGE, No. 349.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
F. Flint Perter, Sen. Deacon,
James C. Cole, Master,
John R. MacGregor, Sen. Warden, Dan Leslie Hopkins, Jun. Deacon,
Gilman Wm. Bacon, Jun. Warden, Ferd. John Bartelme, Marshal,
John Francis Lilley, Treasurer,
Francis Delmar Dolbier, Steward,
Charles Chubb, Steward,
John Wm. Gwilt, Secretary,
James R. Sloan, Tyler.
Alfred B. Coffman! Cha plain,

.

MEMBERS:
Aikin, Arthur Gate~
Galbraith, Alexander
Aikens, Ebbie Campbell
George, William Henry
Anthony, Thomas Maurice
Gibbs, Samuel Henry
Bacon, Gilman William
Gilbert, Thomas
Baker, Arthur Tullock
Gilbertson, James Coolidge
Baker, Harry Hamilton
Gilbertson, John
Bartelme, Ferdinand John
Gillet, Wallace Levi
Bayley, ·Frank Leslie
Grahn, Walter A.
Bennett, Peter
Gray, Leon Ernest
Blessing, Chas. Bernhardt
Gwilt, John William, P. M.
Bouterious, Amiel Oliver
Hallowell, Edward Lewis
Brill, Oscar Charles
Hadley, Marquis De Lafayette
Brown, Frank Theodore
Hanna, James Clendenin
Brown, Harry Winchester
Harford, Albert Kellogg
Brown, Samuel, P. M .
. Hart, Frederick Watson
Browne, Roy James
Heathorne, William Elisha
Brune, Alfred Ernrst
Holladay, George, P. M.
Cahill, Patrick
Hopkins, Dan Leslie
Caldwell, Orville Benton
Haugh, Edward Stanford Samuel
Chapman, William H.
Howard, Willis Clinton
Chesney, William James, P. M.
Hubbard, Ludlow
Chubb, Charles
·
Hudspeth, Charliis Ernest
Chubb, William Henry
Hughes, Edward Floyd
Clarke, Austin Fisher
Huntley, John Stanley
·Cobb, Lewis Harrison
Hurlbut, Reuben Preston
Codington, Charles Frederick
Husband, Charles, P. M.
Cole, James Cairns
Irish, Clifford Lucius
Collins, Willis Harold
Jeffery, Charles Alex.
Coon, Mathew Fernandez
Journal, Philip Samuel
Cooley, Frank Lucius
Jung, .Gottlieb
Currlin, Varlin Albert
Kergan, William Wesley
Currlin, Waldemar Edmund
Kirkland, John Nicholson
Davis, Warren Marcus
Klinkner, Herman Parke
Davis, William Wallace
Knapp, Sherman Irwin
Dolbier, Francis Delmar
Krueger, Maximillion Adolphus
Donahoo, Edward Denniston
Lackey, Howard Julian
Doud, Roy Wells
Laufer, Frederick William
Dowdle, Everett Stanley
Lewis, Hiram James
Dukes, Charles Alfred
Lewis, Walter James
Dyer, Theo. Xavier
Lilley, John Francis
East, Henry
Lind, Edwartl Martin
Elkinton, Jacob Henry
Lindeblad, Peter
Ellis, George Walter
Lockwood, Julian Lyman
Ellis, Louis Albert
MacDonald, Arthur Thomas
Fant, Edwin Mason
MacGregor, John Pyle

445

ROSTER.

446

MacMillan, Alexander
Marchand, Frank Xavier Z.
Mariotte, Paul Alonzo
Marquardt, Reynolds Gottlieb
Martin, Thomas Clark
McCoy, William Johnson
McKinnon, Chester Gordo11.
McKinnon, . Russell Norman
Mead, Rollen Orlando
Meredith, George Sargent
Metcalf, Solo.n Thayer
Mielenz, Francis William Pinnick
Mueller, Robert Eugene
:Myhre, Samuel Alfred
Nebrkr, Frank Orlando
Nickerson, George Whitefield
Nielson, John
Norman, Robert Edward
Olmsted, Theodore
Olsen, Hans
Olsen, Sydney Gilbert
Parke, Jam~s Henry
Pettigrove, Alfred Raymond
Platt, Samuel J.
Porter, Frank Flint
Porterfield, Arthur Colmery
Paulter, Alfred Mayer
Paulter, Charles Thomas
Ragland, William Beverly
Reed, Clarence Monroe
Rugg, Ray Ruggles
Russell, George Albert
.
Schwaner, William Frederick

Scott, George Amos
Seavey, Benjamin Eastman
Seavey, Ralph Eastman
Seiler, Herbert Fred«:rick
Shepperd, Elmer Earl
Sloan, James Rothschild
Smith, Dudley Almonte
Smith, Rufus Garfield
Somerville, Samuel Moir
Starbuck, Henry Fletcher
Stratford, Chester Grant
Stricklen, Edward Griffith
Struckman, :faul Fred
Swift, Jesse Herbert
Taylor, °C harles Harold
Taylor, Guy
Thaler, Conrad Henry
Thompson, Edward Anderson
Thompson, Thomas Jeffries
Trousdale, Elmer Hill
Trousdale, Otto J.
Tutt, Richard William
Vane, James Playford
Wells, Herbert Arthur
Whitmore, Campbell Dunlap
Whitehead, Rupert
Williams, William
Williston, Thomas Allan
Wilson, Oliver Thomas
Winchell, Calvin Smith
Wyndham, Arthur Cherrington
Zeis, Adolph
-155 .

CA VITE LODGE, No. 350.
Cavite . Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jos. H. Cornahan, Sen. Deacon,
Emanuel Valmas, Master,
Ralza B. Hamilton, Jun. Deacon,
.Max Fred. Bathke, Sen.' Warden,
Valdemar L. Holmgren, Marshal,
James Wm. Miller, Jun. Warden,
.Tohn Vig-go S. Breson, Steward,
William E. Wichman, Treasurer,
Frank Wilson, Stewar·l,
Herman Muller, Secretary,
Valdemar Olsen, Tyler.
Thomas Adamson, Chaplain,

ROSTER.

"
Adamson, Thomas
Anderson, Gustavus
Bathke, Max F1ederick
Beers, Benjamin Franklin
Bellinger, James Warren
Benton, Frederick Leslie
Berg, Ludwig M.
Blackburn, Joseph
Breson, John Viggo Signald
Bruce, Louis Edgar
Burns, Edward
Carnahan, Joseph Henry
Clapp, Leander Austin
Couch, Maurice Douglas
Coyne, James Matthew
Dilks, Isaac Charles
Douglas, James Robert
Eckstrom, John
Ely, Clyde Baldwin
Fedak, Albert Louis
Folger, Lester Mitchell
Foster, Will Ragsdale
Gay, Harold
Hamilton, Ralza Benjamin
Hayhurst, Charles Frederick
Heiligenstein, George
Henrichsen, Oscar Gustav
Holmgren, Valdemar Louis
Jorgensen, Alfred Kristian
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Kirby, Robert Pleasant
Lewis, Frank
Lindberg, Alfred John
.Marshal, Henry Everette

447

MEMBERS:
Miller, Walter George
Miller, James William
Muller, Hermann
McClure, Herbert James
Nygaard, Carston
Newman, Harry Thompson
Olsen, Valdemar
Perry, Frank William
Pierce, James Louis
Pray, George Alden
Prideaux, Wm. Downing
Rinehart, Archibald
Schlegel, William Frederick
Sainsbury, Joseph Edward
Schoon, Peter John Christian
Shaw, James Russei
Snell, Edgar Wright
Swan, John
Svenesen, John
Thornberry, Risher W.
Thormahlen, Matthias August
Utz, Joseph William
Vassie, David Barclay
Valmas, Emanuel
Whitton, Arthur Mervyn
Walker, James E.
Warburton, Charles Edgar
Whitcomb, Berton, ·p, M.
Wood, Rasco Conklin
. Winkler, Charles Augustus
Wilson, Frank
Weichman, William Engelbertus
W oodru:lf, Alfred
Winsor, William Alden
--68

PALESTINE LODGE, No. 351.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
.
OFFICERS:
Henry Debasco McCabe, Master1
Walter F. Haas, Sen. Deacon,
Thoe. J. McDonald, Sen. Warden,
Jos. F. Chambers, Jun. Deacon,
Samuel H. Gowen, Jun. Warden,
Isaac Carl Gordan, Marshal,
Jacob Edward Goetz, Treasurer,
Lewis Allan Crisler, Steward,
E. Ellsworth Bradley, S!)cretary,
Otto Frank Reinen,· Steward,
Robert Andrew Li.ndsay, Chaplain, David Oliver Freeman, Tyler.

448

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Hattington, Fred Jennrngs
Alger, Duncan
Horine, Henry Clay
Adamson, Robert Newel
Hughes, Joseph Robert
Adamson, Lewis Frederick
Henck, Ellery Longshore
Ansell, Jake Lewis
Hancock, Walter Edward
Allen, Ethan Ray
Havil, Fred H.
·Atkinson, Johnson
Heard, Isaac Stephen
Brown, William Lundy, P. M.
Inman, William Charles
Brown, Frederick Henry
Jepson, John Augustus
Best, William Newton
-.Johnson, Alfred B.
Bradley, Elmer Ellsworth
Johnson, Charles
Baskerville, Charles Albert
Johnson, Swan Peter
Black, Frederick Rufus
Bosserman, David Wernick, P. M. Jordan, Zachariah Thomas
Jurdon, Albert Leonard
Blott, William Leander
Kelpatrick, Aaron Edward
Bell, James William
Kelly, Charles Leonard
Cary, Charles Albert
Kemp, Robert Walter
Cook, Charles Henry
Kirkpatrick, George Bertram
Civille, Leroy Henry, P. M.
Kornblum, Morris Samuel
Cox, Jasper
Kreider, Samuel Leander
Chambers, Joseph Fleischman
Lyell, Julian
Crisber, Lewis Allen
Leighton, William Henry
Cunningham, Robert
Mears, Benjamin Franklin
Cooper, Frank Searles
McCabe, Henry Debasco
Calfano, Ferdinand
McDonald, Thomas Joseph
Dounie, Emerson James
Miller, Eilmund Alexander
Eddy, George Sigel
McKinnie, Frederick Campbell
Easton, Ernest Eugene
Millsap, Edmund Moise
Evans, Charles William
Millsap, Sylvester
Earle, Charles Henry
McNeal, Thos. Andrew, P. M.
Fullerton, George Herbert
McDonaugh, Sidney Roy
Fox, Willard Henry
Fondersmj.th, Addes Henry
McDonald, Daniel Joseph
Freeman, David Oliver
McDonald, Walter James
McDonald, Frank Virgil
FoRter, Edward Ware
Nickols, George Swanson
Fretz, Edwin Henry
Nelson, William Reseniaus
Flammer, Paul Ernest
Nathan, Morris
Goetz, Jacob Edward
Gowen, Samuel Henry
Overell, Walter Edward
Garrett, Frank
Partridge, Harvey
Greene, George Simons
Power, Charles Ora
Gordan, Isaac Carl
Pageeler, John Charles
Henderson, Andrew
Pennington, Norman Augustus
Horne, William Anthony
Peterson, Louis Nathaniel
Haas, Walter Francis
Russill, Henry Davis
Hamerlund, John Peter Nelson
Reed, Burt Warren

Raymaker, William Arnold
Reinen, Otto Frank
Rich, Levi D.
Richards, John
Richards, Charles Albert
Roberts, Richard Gorony
Rollins, Fred Aaron
Selph, Edgar Eugene, P. M.
Sherer, Rpbert
Strouse, Louis Alva
Sledd, Warner Alfred, P. M.
Sams, Peter W.
Suter, John
Sumption, Frederick Albert
Stead, James Robert
Shorten, Albert
Strong, Herbert Vincent
Sexton, Joseph Brownell
Strunk, Joel Bertram
Stevens, Mark

449

Samuel, Frederick David
Thacker, Frank L.
Tinklepaugh, Ray Deoerne
Tyler, Martin Rich
Thom, Sewel Watson
Tracy, Charles Clifton
Tracy, James William
Thomas, Ernest G.
Thompson, Frank Slusher
Wakeling, Samuel
Woodworth, Theo. Whitingham
Winter, Albert Charles
Wolf, Christian
Wheeler, Arthur James, P •. M.
Willits, Charles Nelson
Wood, William Bell, P. M.
Waterman, Collins Palmer
Wride, Frank George
Welsh, Clifford Durham
.Waggoner, Charles Henry
-130

SUNSET LODGE, No.. 352.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Edgerton Burke, Master,
Louis Murdock, Sen. Deacon,
Chas. H. Bridges, Sen. Warden,
Charles H. Miller, Jun. Deacon,
Ralph A. Chase, Jun. Warden,
Edwin Merrill Williams, Marshal,
Eugene Leonard Titus, Treasurer, Mark Kirkby, Steward,
Elliott Stacy Rogers, Secretary,
James Thomas Carter, Steward,
John Martin Schaef.l.e, Chaplain,
John Francis Lacroix, Tyler.

Adams, James Edwin, P. M.
Armstrong, Ambrose Harvey
Bridges, Charles Henry
Bridges, Charles William
Burke, Samuel Edgerton ·
Blakwell, Thomas
Beauchamp, Hiram Frederick
Bruflat, Martin
29

MEMBERS:
Burrows, Robert Hughston
Brasher, Horace Clyde
. Brasher, Russell John
Brasher, William Floyd
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Ballard, Earl Blakeley
Blair, Luther Reed
Colby, William Wallace

450
Clark, John Beaver, P. M.
Chamberlain, John Joseph
Christopher, James Henry
Chase, Ralph Arthur
Crouch, George Andrew
Coles, Edward Augustus
Chesworth, John Edward
Chesworth, Joseph Reginald
Clatworthy, William E.
Carter, James Thomas
Conkling, James L.
De La Matyr, Nathan Henry
Duncan, George Nolan
Eckles, Cloudy Morning
Eley, James Thomas
Ferguson, Mark Simpson
Franken, Robert
Fiske, William Kingston
Frost, William Joseph
Frick, Moses Light
Guthrie, Robert Allen
Gray, Samuel
Garver, William Merrell
Gregory, George W.
Howard, Horace Emory
Hanson, Gotfred
. Hodges, Jonathan
Howell, Clarence Walter
Haynes, Elmer Eugene
hubner, William Fred
Hatch, William Kinersley
Iles, Harry
J cnsen, Henry Christian
Johnston, Wm. Murray, P. M.
James, William Perry
Johnson, Henry Samuel
Kelsey, James Henry, P. M.
Kirkpatrick, John Reid
Kirkby, Mark
Kelsey, Ralph Henry
Lynde, George William

ROSTER.
Lagre, Knute
Lacroix, John Francis
Leighton, Luther W.
Larrigo, George
.
Macdonald, James Enon
Mort, Albert Cliffton
Miller, Charles Henry
Murdock, Loµis
Musser, Roy Robert
Mercer, Edgar
Morris, Charles Hensley S.
M.cLeod, John Munro
McDonald, Fred Stephen
McLaughlin, William F.
Osmun, Silas Cook, P. M.
Qsmun, Sidgewick Ziba, P. M.
Pierce, Frederick Eugene
Peet, Daniel Ario
Peet, Dale Owen
Rogers, Elliott Stacy
Riley, Daniel Pike
Rhodes, John Albert
Ross, Percy Wallace
Sawyer, Edmund Ogden
Siemer, Henry
Sutherland, David Munroe, P . M.
Scholfield, Herbert
Singer, John
Smith, Cyrus Donald
Stegemeier, Charles Frederick
Swayer, Edmund Ogden, Jr.
Spangler, David Etheriiigton
Thomas, Orsen Theo.
Titus, Eugene Leonard
Tilden, William Frederick
Upp, George B.
Walker, Henry
Winton, Paul
Whitice, Robert Doll
Williams, Edwin Morrill

-97

'

ROSTER.

451

PINOLE LODGE, No. 353.
Pinole, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Wade Robison,' Master,
Andrew J. Hamilton, Sen. Warden,
Rudolph N. Thode, Jun. Warden,
John Alexander Fraser, Treasurer,
John C. Fremont Hall, Secretary,
Wm. Berry McKenzie, Chaplain,

J. Valley Enloe, Sen. Deacon,
George W. Fraser, Jun. Deacon,
Emile Bleuler, Marshal,
Carl Frederick Ruff, Steward,
Wm. Judson Prentice, Steward,
Levi Evans, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bleuler, Emil
Barrett, J <Jhn Peter
Bermingham, John, Jr.
Boysen, Henry
Bacon, William Thomas
Brandt, Frederick John
Catlett, Theo. Scott
· Carr, Edward Moon
Chaquet.te, Ephram Charles
Cu=ings, Claud Allen
Cooper, Clinton Clifford
Downer, Edward M.
Davies, Thomas
Daniels, Frederick Hugo
Evans, Levi
Ellerhorst, Christopher
Enloe, Josepp Valley
Fraser, John Alexander
Fraser, George Whittier
Greenfield, Abraham, P. M.
Graham, George Jarvas
Garland, Fred Augustin
Hall, John Charles Fremont, P . M.
Hamson, William
Hitch, Abraham
Hamilton, Andrew Jackson
Holiday, Charles Hiram

Horne, George
Jackson, Walter Hunt
Kemline, Ludwig
Lumsden, Wj.lliam John
Lehmkhul, Chas. F. Christian
Lehman, Max
·McCullough, Henry
Mann, William Hodgson
Marx, Joseph Sidney
McDonald, Frederick
McDonald, Ralph Ernest
McKinley, Samuel Stuart
Murphey, Raymond Cornelius
McKenzie, William Berry, P. M.
Newfield, Joseph
Paterson, John Chalmers, P. M.
Pfeifer, William Jennings
Pfeiffer, George
Prentice, William Judson
Robinson, Edward Wade
Ruff, Carl Frederick
Stevens, Brainard Wyman
South~orth, Eugene Edward
Towns, John Warren
Thode, Rudolph Nicolas
Vanprooyon, Cornelius
-53

452

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

PRESIDIO LODGE, No. 354.

Knight, Carlton R.
Knight, Orman Hampton
Knowles, Ned Lewis
Kock, Walter Valentine
Krogar, Charles Frederick
Kroger, Frederick Claus
Kreft, Henry
Lauterback, Edmund
Leonard, John Vaughan
~eu, Matthias Adolph -!·
Locks, Herman
Long, Charles Henry
Marsh, Alonzo l;'talph
Miller, George Herman
Mills, Frank Henry
Mitchell, Charles Burton
Mohr1 Rudolph
Morcom, Fred Nicholas
Morrice, Tho:ni.as Brown
Moyle, James William
Mullender, David Fraser
McKevitt, Hugh King
McKevitt, Thomas Eugene
Obradovich, Nicholas
Payne, Clyde Sylvenus
Plagemann, Walter Otto H.enry
Prechtel, George Philipp
Reed, Warren Stedman
Richards, David
Sandy, George Howard

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS: Louis Edmund Boivin, Master.,
John Burke Gennie, Sen. Deacon,
Herman, Locks, Senior Warden,
August R. Denke, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. A. Sherman, Jun. Warden,
Anton Emil Schuhmann, Marshal,
Andrew Jackson Vining, Treasurer, Frank Ringo Jackson, Steward,
Benj. Loring Hesseltine, Secretary, Herman A. Coggins, Steward,
Frank Mason Jackson, Uhaplain,
Charles Douglas Fisher, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, George William
Fisher, Charles Douglas
Altvater, Wm. Frederick
Fleischer, Ernest Custer
Andornetti, Paul
Fuson, Amandus Ulysses
Baker, Thomas Leonard
Gallagher, Hugh Patrick
Barker, Henry
Gaskill, Varney William, P. M.
Batcher, John Henry
Gennie, John Burke
Bemmerer, Henry August
Gibbs, Harry Throckmorton
Blanchard, Cortland J.
Gomersal, Fergus
Boivin1 Louis Edmond
Graham, George
Bonick, William Hood
Gwinn, William Madison
Bowes, Alfred
Grier, Robert Arthur, P. M.
Boxton, George Wynell
Harris, Thomas Henry
Boyd, John H9uston, P. M.
Harwood, Albert Oliver
Butterworth, John Barlow
Haslehurst, Oscar Alvinza
Caler, Frederick Edward
Hearn, William Daniel
Campana, Pietro Sebastian
Helgesen, Nelson Rod velt
Campbell, Archibald
llelms, George Leo
Childs, Benjamin Neely
Herbst, A.
Cobb, George Douglas
Hesseltine, Benjamin Lor"ing
Coggins, Raymond Boynton
Hilbert, Frederick Henry
Coggins, Herman Appleton
Hobro, William Dovey, Jr.
Cooke, George Warren
Hobro, Alfred . Watson
Cooley, Aaron Riley
Homburg, Martin Julius
Denke, August Reinhold
Hubbard, John Minkel
Denke, Edmund Herman
Jackson, Frank Mason, P. M.
Dillon, Charles Monroe
Jackson, Frank Ringo
Dittman, Frank
Jacobsen, Christian Theo. Fred.
Dye, Marcus Brutus
Keator, Robert Stone
Emerson, George Waldo
Kelly, George Francis
Engle, Walter J.
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Ernst, Car1 Frederick
King, Henry Arthur
Estes, William Edward
Kipp, Joseph Henry
Fischbeck, Jules Minckle
Kipp, Matthew E.

Schroder, Henry Andrew
Schuhmann, Anton Emil
Schuhmann, August Max
Sedgley, Harry Timothy
Seeburger, Herman J.
Sherman, William· Albert
Smith, Frank Edward
Smith, Francis Gilbert
Smith, Walter Egerton
Starling, Andrew John
Strand, William Francis
Strohmeier, Otto
Tidell, Andrew Gustaf, Jr.
Tomasini, Henry Elvezio
Toye, William Osbourne
Trezise, John Samuel
Trull, Charles Bert
Ulrich, John Alvin
Utterback, Charles Norman
Vining, Andrew Jackson
Walker, George Henry, Jr.
Ward, Charles Henry
Watson, Frank George, P. M.
Watson, Kenneth
Weitzenberg, Wm. Fred. Joseph
Wetzel, Theodore, Sr.
Wetzel, Theodore, Jr.
White, George Philip
Wilkinson, Eli J.
Williams, Ralph E.
-126

HOLLY\iVOOD LODGE, No. 355.
Hollywood,. Los Angeles County.

.

Stated Medings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Robert Young, Sen. Deacon,
Ed'l'{ard Winterer, Jun. Deacon,
Fred. Vincent Denne, Marshal,
Arnold Bartels, Steward,
Wm. Fox Pursell, Steward,
William Vickers, Tyler.

John Pinkney Day, Master,
George Lingo, Sen. Warden,
Chas. Ed. Boag, Jun. Warden,
John Eugene Law, Treasurer,
Henry White Whipple, Secretary,
Herman Louis Back, Chaplain,

453

454

ROSTER.

MEMBERS :
Allen, Russell, Joseph
Kanouse, Theo. Dwight, P. M.
Kincaid, James Leslie
Aldritt, John Allen
Bynon, Frederick Silas, P. M.
Koehler, Chas. Frederick, P. M.
Boag, Charles Edward
Lau, John Eugene
Boehncke, George
Lingo, George
Boyle, Calvin Alcinous
Letts, Arthur
Boyle, William Machneer
Mercer, Levi Long
Barne~, George Henry
Miller, Louie D.
Beynon, T~lewellyn Jam es
McMillan, John
Berry, Bennett Burrett
Mead, William
Back, Herman Lo.u is
Melcher, Howard Wash ..
Barter, Henry James
Merkley, Harry Samuel
Bartels, Arnold
Moore, Ola
Cook, James Todd
Milner, Robert Virgin
Clark, Herbert F.
Monson, Olaf
Chamberlin, James B.
Pogson, .Robert M.
Day, John Pinkney
Price, Veazey
Davidson, Austruther
Palmer, Edwin Obadiah
Douglass, Frank M.
Pierce, Charles Merritt
Dunlap, George Howard
Pursell, William Fox
Dunscomb, Jay Luther
Rich, Sanford
Elliott, Edwin Windsor
Rodenhouse, Harry Edward
Edwards, Benjamin Clarence
Stevenson, Gilbert Field, P. M.
Extey, Fred George
Spalding, William Brockhurst
Exton, George Tory
Soules, Charles Henry
.Ferry, Francis Charles, P. M.
Stephens, Albert Lee
Ferry, Louis
Starlie, Rudolph R.
Grass~ Joseph Fernand
Snodgrass, Walter F.
Gardner, Alan
Townsend, William Henry
Glass, Clement Studebaker
Thompson, Percy W.
Gregg, L. W.
Vickroy, Hugh Kennedy
Harrett, Edwin
Valdez, Alexander A valine
Hampton, Ellis Clark
Weddington, Fred Rutledge
Heinig, Theo., P. M.
Whitley, Hobart Johnston
Holman, Paul
Wickereon, Harry Douglass
Hanna, George
Willits, Robert Lander
Harper, Benjamin William
Whipple, Henry White
Hoover, Frank Sheridan
Wakeman, E. B.
Jackson, Joseph Addison
Winterer, Edward
Jepson, Jacob
Young, Mose
Jackman, Florie B.
Young, Robert
-82

ROSTER.

4.55

MILL VALLEY LODGE, No. 356.
Mill Valley, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

...

..
J "'·

OFFICERS:
Alonzo Coffin, Sen. Deacon,
Kent J. C. Seymour, Jun. Deacon,
George H. Cook, Marshal,
Geo. Hillary Harlan, Steward,
Clinton Folger, Steward1
Geo. Archibald Erquhart1 Tyler.

Samuel Murdock Burt, Master,
Thoe. T. Greaves, Sen. Warden,
Fred. W. G. Belwood, Jun. Warden,
John Burt, Treasurer,
Chas. Jacob Brockhoff, Secretary,
Alfred Wm. Bush, Chaplain,
Ankers, George
Becker, Christopher Henry
Becker, Philip Sheridan
Beirao, Manuel Peireira, Jr.
Bostwick, Frank Fiske
Brockhoff, Charles Jacob
Burt, ,Tohn
Burt, Samuel Murdoch
Bush, Alfred William
Cappelmann, Oscar Cornelius
Coffin, Alonzo
Coffin, Horace
Crumpton, Hezekiah John
Doherty, Earle Leeper
Eisen, Edward George
Farrar, Walter William
Finn, Charles Chamberlain
Fleming, Willard Stephe11.
Folger, Clinton
Garcia, Manuel Rodgers
Greaves, Thomas Travis
Harlan, George Hillary
Hayes, Daniel Edward
Haynes, Charles Lyman
Howitt, Henry
Jackson, Ernest Wedgwood
Janee, Louis Lyman, P . M.
Klyce, Harvey Asbury, P. M.
Lange, Mathias
Linsley, Frederic Dou_glas
Losh, Francis Adams

MEMBERS:
Makin, Robert Ross
Newlands, James, Jr., P. M .
P&rcell, Charles Erskine
Parcell, Charles Henry·
Peters, Charles Henry Fred.
Pritchard, .A. lfred Henry
Pryor, Joseph Henry
Pryor, Percy Church
Regan, Henry
Ritchie, William Lloyd
Rudebeck, George Maurice
Runyon, Charles Francia
Runyon, Frederick Francis
Schlingman, John Fred
Belwood, William Gordon
Seymour, Kent Jarvis Chaae
Staples, Melvin
Stevens, Harry Osborn ·
Stocker, Charles Ellis
St. John, Chauncey Milton
Thomas, William Edward
Thomas, William Jamee
Urquhart, George Archibald
Urquhart, George Archibald, Jr.
Watters, Thomas Sydney
Westcott, Harry .Blake
Whitcomb, Bonner
White, Burchard Cole
Williams, Robert Barker
Wray, Alban Ernest
Yost, Nicholas Peter
-62

451i

ROS'l'ER.

ROSTER.

BUENA PARK LODGE,

~o.

357.

Buena Park, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Edgar Edward Angell, Master,
Merton C. Cawthon, Sen. Deacon,
Jas. E. Milliken, Senion Warden, Mathew Schantz, Jun. Deacon,
Samuel D. Winters, Jun. Warden, Eugene Caldwell Cady, Marshal,
Henry Elias Warren, Treasurer,
John Kellenberger, Steward,
Charles Homer Mann, Secretary,
William Edgar Tice, Steward,
Pavid Wm. Hasson, Chaplain,
Samuel Huff; Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Angell, Edgar Edward
McAllep, William Reed
Bennett, Arthur Leslie
McGuire, Thomas
Cady, Eugene Caldwell, P. M.
McKenney, Joseph Wilson
Cawthon, Merton Chesley
Osborn, Maurice Nelson
Cook, Justin Browning
Pechstein, William Bruno
Corbin, Oliver Lee
Perry, John Sargent, P. M.
Dutton, George Eli
Perry, Oliver Hazard
Gilmore, William Duncan
Potter, William Gibbons
Hall, Jesse Clark
Rundell, John Thomas
Hasson, David William, P. M.
Sailor, Richard Allen
Sanford, William Alfred
Huff, Samuel
Schantz, Mathew
Kellenberger, John, Jr.
Kennedy, Charles Sumner
Smith, Sidney Charles
Landell, Gilbert Stuart
Taylor, William Saunders
Lawrence, Howard Chester
'rice, William Edges
Little, Samuel William
Walker, Simeon Oglesby, P. M.
Macdonald, John Alexander
War.ren, Henry Elias
Whitaker; George Andrew
Mann, Charles Homer
Mann, Rober.t Carlos
Whitaker, James Henry, P. M.
Martin, Herbert
White, Charles Edward
Milliken, James Emmanuel
Winters, Samuel Durbin
Morgan, Ralph Herbert
--43

GOLDEN STATE LODGE, No. 358.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Walter Tedforu, Master,
Benj. F. Kierulff, Jr., Sen. Deacon,
John Geo. Morley, Sen. Warden,
Jacob Kelch, Junior Deacon,
A. Edgar Wright, Jun. Warden,
Clarence W. Callender, Marshal,
James Irving, Treasurer,
James Edward Martin, Steward,
Wm. H. Ledgerwood, Secretary,
Heber H. Balderston, Steward,
Jonathan C. Duncan, Chaplain,
Thomas Wood, Jr., Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Irving, James
Anderson, Charles George
Jones, Fred' Hooker
Ashley, Chester Carlisle
Jones, John Leland, P. M.
Bodham, Willard .Edmund
Jorder, Frederick
Bannister, Alfred William
Kelch, Jacob
Barkley, Chester Mathia~
Kierulff, Benj. Fran1!;.lin, Jr.
Bathey, Herbert Theodore
Koerting, Oscar Paul
Bean, John Hill, P. M .
Krause, Julius Webster
Benford, George Arthur
Ledgerwood, Newton Green
Berry, Nathan .
Ledgerwood, William Hendricks
Bohrman, Henry William
Levy, Solomon
Brill, Frederic Wultze
Lipe, Columbus Joshua
Broadhead, Thomas Harvey
Lowman, Charles Oscar
Brown, ~obert Eclwaru Lile
McBirney, Alexander
Butcher, Robert
McKenzie, Samuel Jerome
Campbell, Otis Augtistis
Marsh, Willis Charles, P. M.
Cherington, William Stacher
Martin, J ame.s Edward
Christin, Emile John
Martin, Richard William
Conser, William
Mellus, Frank Hancock
'Cummins, Francis Marion
Mellus, Louis Randolph
Cunningham, George
Merrill, Albert Eugene
DeForest, William Heath
Miller, George William
Dinemore, Joseph Henry
Moore, Newton ·
Dixon, Charles Edward
Morgan, Thomas Elisha
Dixon, Willis Milnor
Morley, John George
Dolton, Louis Algernon
Morrison, George Denton
Doyle, John Hurst
Mattel, Joseph Jason
Dukemaii, Frank Clayton
Norton, Frank Lathey
Duncan, Jonathan Columbus
Pauze:r, John Charles
Edwards, Godfrey
Parker, Herbert Raymond
Fish, Charles Winthrop
Parker, Lucius Clark
Fish, William Campbell
Peckham, William Mason
Frost, Fred Rufus
Peterson, Julian Ingersoll
Frackolton, William Burnside
Plischke, Frederick William
Gardner, Raymond Albion ·
Purdy, John Henry
Garn, Peter W., P. M.
Raney, Joseph Francis
Griffin, Oliver George
Reading, Robert Edward
Hamill, Edgar Samuel
Reed, George Houston
Haupt, Robert Samuel
Requa, Clarence James
Heath, Charles Rhodes
Requa, Herbert Davis
Heath, Robert Lee
Risk, Joseph
Hinton, Thomas
Riverall, Elfego
Howell, Robert Paine
Roberds, Frederick Ottie
Hutchinson, William Edward
Hutton, Charles Edward, P. M • Roeder, Henry
Roseburg, Samuel Robert
Rydell, John Baptist

457

ROSTER.

458
Rosenberg, Samuel
Rothgeb, James Frank
Sanborn, Benjamin Franklin
Schneider, Frederick William
Sch:r;ieider, George Henry
Schneider, William Theodore
Schweitzer, Charles George
Schweitzer, Ernest John
Sellers, Oscar
Shellhorn, Arthur Lemon
Sherer, Albert James
Slobohm, George Melvin
Smith, Richard Robertson
Snavely, Archibald Clinton
Sobieski, John
Stevens, F;rank Alfred
Strickler, John Henry
Sutch, Wendall Hamilton
Tedford, George Walter

Tenbrook, George Henry
Test, Elwood Allen
Thies, Charles Louis
Tierman, Albert
Tilden, Byron Timothy
Wagner, Robert Garfield
Walker; Walter
Wheelock, Raymond Patterson
Whytti, William James
Wilde, Charles L.
Williams, William Henry
Wing, William Allen
Winters, Harry Lewis
Winn, Albert
W oelz, Leonard Charles
Wood, Arthur Pearce
Wood, Thomas, Jr.
Wright, Albert Edgar
-127

459

-34

SAN FRANCISCO.LODGE, No. 360.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
R. Ambrose Pabst, Sen. Deacon,.
Bacil Warner Rice, Jun. Deacon,
Steve Isaac Simmons, Marshal,
Alfred Daniel LaMotte, Steward,
Arthur W. Morgenstern, Steward,
John Domingos Ramsey-, Tyler.

John R. Aitken, Master,
J. Claude Perry, Sen. Warden,
Harry E. DeLasaux, Jun. Warden,
Lewis Emmet Sawyer, Treasurer,
C. Seymour Sherman, Secretary,
Matthew Thomas Wilson, Chaplain,

Loyalton, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James John 0. Millar, Master,
Adolph R. Walthers, Sen. Warden,
· J. Hunter Penney, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Ottway Peck, Treasurer,
Benj. Franklin Hoover, Secretary,
MEMBERS:
Henderson, Robert Leon
Hoover, Benjamin Franklin
Lewis, Horace Edmund
Lewis, Richard Hiram
Millar, James John Orimbah, P. M.
Mcintyre, John
Peck, William Ottway
Pearson, Isaac
Penney, Jesse Hunter
Ruleson, Charles James
Robinson, Henry Harrison
Sparks, Joseph Beeson

~tlson, John Everett
·Watson, Isaac
Wheeler, Brent Marshall
Worn, George Ross
Walthers, Adolph Robert

Schroeder, Marion
Smith, John X.
Thorne, William Davis
Thorne, Robert William
Walsh, Frank Denton

LOYALTON LODGE, No. 359.

Arnold, George Ezra
Becker, Michael Thomas
Beadner, Edward John
Black, George Thomas
Coats, Winston Decatur, P. M.
Counter, Charles Reuben
Conklin, Louis William
Enscoe, Joseph Robert
Goodwin, Harry Nettles
Gustafson, John Alfred
Huyck, Richard Asa
Hopkins, Oliver Garrett

ROSTER.

I

Ir ..

Ade, George William
Aitken, John R.
Ames, Donald Sinclair
Anderson, Archibald Andrew
Anderson, Axel Ferdinand
Anderson, George Murdock
Auld, John Davidson
Axman, Rudolph
Baker, George Washington
Baker, Warren Garfield
Barden, Charles, .Tr.
Bass, Thomas
Bell, George Rutledge
Benham, Joseph Marshall
Benjamin, Elmer Hopkins
Bennett, Henry Charles
Biggersta_fl', Eugene Knight
Billings, Homer A.
Brace, Herbert Edward
Braay, Walter Garfield
Bruckman, Robert R. Conrad
Callender, Monroe Nathan
Chamberlain, Newell Day
Chisholm, Alfred Arthur
Cross, William Wood

MEMBERS:
Crozier, Alfred Bernard
Crozier, Harry Perryman
Cushing, Stephen Russell
De Lasaux, Harry Edward
Dement, Richard Henry
Denroche, Charle!! Percy
Dillon, James Root
Dillon, John Francis
Doig, James
Dunn, Edgar H.
Dutcher, Forrest LeGrand
Epler, Samuel Edgar
Fowler, Herbert Franklin
Gates, Merville Elwood
Glissman, Pearlie Randolph
Goe, Clarence George
Grim, Lucullus K.
Racket, Thomas Ophir
Hague, William Edward
Haller, Emile Lucas
Hammersmith; Louis
Hanna, Rea
Hansen, Oscar Herman
Heim, Herman Marcus
Hendry, Charles Stewart

460
Hendry, William
Herndon, Walter Brotherton
Herrington, William Merced
Hoin, Theodore Stone
Holloway, Howard Stanley
Huffman, Edwin Towne
Jarvis, Thompson Pearson
Johnson, Harry Sumner, P. M.
Johnson, William Cleas
Kirkpatrick, George Edward
Krueger, Henry Jacobus
Laist, .Otto, Jr.
Laumeister, Anton
Lindsay, Francis
Lindsay, Ulyessess Grant
Lipowitz, Maximilian, P. M.
Loveland, Harvey Arthur
Loveland, Harvey Davis, P. M.
Macurda, Arthur Amsden
Martin, Benjamin Risdon
McDonald, Frank William
McEwen, Daniel Hudson
Mcintyre, Eugene Blake
Mery, Jacob Laurence
Miles, Harry Judson
Miller, Eugene
Miller, Otis Locke
Moll, Francis Oliver
Moore, Robert Isaac
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Moulthrop, John Robert
Munroe, Louis Francis
Munroe, Thomas Anderson
Myland, George
Nelson, William Christian
Newell, Ralph Gerard
Oakes, Charles Wesley
O'Neill, Hugh
Pabst, Rudolph Ambrose
Pelletier, John Francis
Perry, Jesse Claude

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Peters, Charles Richarcl
Pfitzner, Johannes
Prost, Herbert Greiveldinger
Rasmussen, Edwin Otto
Ramsay, John Domingos
Rebard, John Emil, Jr.
Rennie, Zenas Crane
Reynolds, Francis Edward
Rice, Basil Warner
Rogers, Guy
Rouse, Edwin Frederick
Rowling, William Henry
Russell, Samuel Wilson
Sanborn, Harvey Hackett
Saville, Harcy Darius
Sawyer, Lewis Emmett
Scharowsky, Hans Albert
Scheilein, John Paul
Sherman, Charles Seymour
Shields, Hugh Francis
Simmons, Stephens Isaac
Slye, Joseph
Stevens, Harry Clay
Sunder, Frank Christen
Talbot, William Henry ·
Terrill, George Clark
Trimble, James Felix
Trusson, Alfred William
Tucker, Alber John
Van Bergen, Harry
Van Nest, Gamaliel C.
Veale, Almer Fletcher
Verdellit, Victor Leon
Walworth, Charles Harper
Watters, George Franklin
Webster, Stanley
Whan, William Weir .
Williamson, John Colonel William
Willis, William Walter
Wilson, Matthew Thomas, P. M.
-131.

461

FORT BRAGG LODGE, No. 361.
Fort Bragg, Mendocino County.

'

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Elwyn Weller, Master,
Abraham H. Shafsky, Sen. Warden,
Birney, A. Lendrum, Jun. Warden,
Herman Robert Baum, 'l'reasurer,
George Golden, Secretary,
MEMBERS:
Albert, David Lowell
Baum, Herman Robert
Beckman, Oswald Hfribut, P . M.
Bouton, Edward Fiilmore
Brown, Edward Evans
Carlisle, Ira Herbert
Cavanagh, Charles Joseph
Cullin, John Winchell
Dixon, Edward William
Dixon, William Henry
Dorwin, Frank Romeo Canfi€ld
Duffey, Andrew Dallis
Fee, George Henry
Foye, Henry Malcolm
Fritzsche, Carl August
Fuller, William Fred 'k Horace
Gilliam, William Andrew
Golde.n , George
Holmes, Harry
Higgins, Walter Francis
Huggins, Eri
Jones, William Gaston
Leiser, Leo.
Lendrum, Berney Alex.
Lord, Alfred Austin
Lowell, Andrew Jac.ii:son
Lowell, John Walter
Lowry, William Scott
Lyman, Arthur Stephen

Macrum, John Wilson
Mathews, Charles William
McCallum, John Alex.
McCorn11-ck,' William Andrew, P. M.
McOornack, Edwin Roy
Mero, Charles William
Milliken, Horace Fremont
O'Connor, Edward James
Peirsol, James Kastor
Schow, Henry Curtis
Schmitz, Charles
Shafsky, Abraham Henry
Shafsky, Samuel
Seaholm, Otto Henning
Stillings, George Hutchinson
Switzer, Albert James
Tregoning, Henry Stewart
Tullis, Ed~ard
Ward, William Burchard
Weller, CharJes Russell
W~ller, Guy Vary
Weller, Horace Aaron, Jr.
Weller, Horace Alanson, Sr.
Weller, John Elwyn, P. M.
. White, Fred Cyrus
"?'oodruff, Chester
Wright, Charles Edgar
Zerbe, Samuel John
-51.

ROSTER.

-162

CHARITY LODGE, No. 362.

ROSTER.

•
Annis, Jerome Walter
Adams, .Leonard Oliver
Arnold, Edwin Charles
Baird, Robert Browne
Bailey, Lyman Clopp
Bayly, David Harry
Behm, Augustus Clair
Benton, Julian Juriah
Benton, Charles Henry
Biglow, John Edwin
Bradhoff, Peter Francis
Butler, Robert
Butterfield, Fred Louis
• Barns, Henry S.
Burchett, George Letchford
Brothers, Walter Edgar
Bailey, Charles Grant
Baxter, George Perkins
Cohn, Jacob Isaac
Cole, Charles Martins
Congdon, Merton Joseph
Craig, David
Davis, James Randal, P. M.
. Demerritt, Hayden Lewis
Dudley, William Christopher
Driver, John Rush
Ellis, Eben Bethnel
Emerson, Ralph Waldo
Gage, Benjamin Franklin
Gillihan, Allen Francis
Griffith, Hanford Berry
Hall, Charles Ambrose
Hanford, John Raymond
Hendricks, William Henry
Heywood, Walter Minturn
Hill, James Faulkner
Hodge, James
Hugill, Elbert Abram
Hutton, John Adams Duglas
Irwin, Horace Dunn
Jackson, Arthur Vincent
Jaggard, Belmont Perry
Jones, David Fow"ier
Johnson, Edward
Johnson, Frederick Woodward

Campbell, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Sylvanus Raynor Wade, Master,
Fleury K. Bartholomew, Sen. W.,
Pope C. Hartman, Jun. Warden,
John C. Ainsley, Treasurer,
George S. Robson, Secretary
Stillman A. Moulton, Chaplain,

•

Lewis D. Bohnett, Senior Deacon,
John Francis Duncan, .Jun: Deacon,
Chauncey H. Whitman, Marshal,
George Whitney, Steward,
Curtis Brown Miracle, Steward,
Charles Townsend, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ainsley, John Colpitts
Bartholomew, Fleury K .
Bennett, Orra Leroy
Betts, Barney
Bohnett, Lewis Dan
Cornell, Jesse James, P. M.
Duncan, John Fellows
Fablinger, James
Farrington, Perry Francis
Fore, Daniel, P. M.
Galbraith, Nathan Buchanan
Greene, James Adelbert
Griffith, William Butler
Hanson, George Warren
Hartman, Pope Catlin
Helliesen, Charles Frederick A.
Hutchins, Samuel
Johnson, Andrew Lytgow
Merrill, Alex Pomroy, P. M.

Miracle, Curtis Brown
Moulton, Stillman Augustus
Parker, Charles L., P. M.
Parso, George Lewis
Peterson, John Edvart
Powers, Edward Augustus
Righter, Francis Marion, P. M.
Robertson, Lance Scott
Robson, George Stokild
Schmitt, Jean Emmanuel
Townsend, Charles
Townsend, Amos Brown
Tut~le, Thomas Jefferson
Wade, Sylvanus Raynor
Wakeman, Edward James
Waite, Demmon Weston
Whitman, Chauncey Hira
Whitney, George
-37.

BERKELEY LODGE, No. 363.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Faulkner Hill, Master,
Frank Walter McClain, Sen. Drnl'on,
Julian J. Benton, Senfor Warden, Harry Dayton Kelsey, Junior DPacon,
Henry B. Phillips, Junior Warden, Ernest Linwood Loring, Marshal,
Robert Browne Baird, Treasurer,
Edwin Charles Arnold, Steward,
David Fowler Jones, Secretary,
Albert Jay Walker, Steward,
John Tower Morrison, Chaplain,
William Riley Stamper, Tyler.

.

MEMBERS:
Johnson, Samuel Woodward
Juster, Cyril Cecil
Kaiser, William Harry
Kelsey, Harry Dayton
Lamb, Frank Henry
Lawt.im, Frank Houteling
·Loring, Ernest Linwood
Macdonald, Her~hel Holt
McClain, Frank Walter
McCoy, Charles Henry
McKeown, Arthur
McKinney, Samuel Pease
McLauren, Jay Lucullus
McNulty, Lester Clay
Meder, Walter John
Morrison, John Tower, P. M.
Mortimer, Walter John
Mueller, Fred Albert
Nelson, Hans Peter
Nelson, Louis Levy
Nichols, William, Jr.
Nielsen, Neils Jensen
Nielssen, Nicholai Lauritz, Jr.
Ochiltree, Gilbert Brydon, P. M.
Ott, August Louis
Ozouf, Henri Eugene
Otis, George Fredron
Parsons, Albert Samuel, P. M.
Parsons, Chester Martin
Peck, John Thomas
Peck, Louis Stanley
Phillips,. Henry Byron
Quackenbush, Simco Simeon
Reed, William Elwood
Reed, Richard Cecil
Robison, James Leman, P. M.
Roslington, William
Reynolds, John Henry
Sanger, Walter Max
Schmidt, George
Schultz, Gustav Fred'k Wilhelm
Schuster, Gustav Adolph
Sherman, Cornelius Augustus
Slates, George Rhodes
Smith, Dwight Timothy

463

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

464

Strom, Carl August ·
Sorensen, Rans Rudolph Nicolai
Spear, Charles Henry
Spear, Charles Morton
Spinks, Charles Henderson
Staats, Redmond Cyril
Stamper, William Riley
Starke, Eric Alex.
Stevenson, Herbert Barrows
Swain, Hershel Ves. Johnson

Turner, Edward Quale
Turner, Thomas
Thies, John
Underwood, Byron Edward
Verrue, Harry Randal
Walker, Albert Jay
Whitworth, George Frederick
Woods, William Fowler
Wnolsey, Fr~nk Reeve
Young, John William-110.

WILLITS LODGE, No. 365.
Willits, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Fuli Moon.
OFFICERS:
Walter LeRoy Blodgett, Master,
Charles E. Palmer, Senior Deacon,
G. W. Richardson, Senior Warden, Allen Davidson, Junior Deacon,
Robt. Emmet Roach, Jun. Warden, George Y oude, Marshal,
Charles Alonzo Irvine, Treasurer,
August John Fairbanks, Steward,
Leroy Kendall Auten, Secretary,
Frank Fielding Perry, Steward,
William Thomas Saxon, Chaplain,
Orren Dunlap, Tyler.

OLIVET LODGE, No. 364.
Corning, Tehama County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each inonth.
OFFICERS:
Mason Nutting Case, Master,
Marshal DeMotte, Senior Deacon,
Edward F. Conway, Sen. Warden, William Dale, Junior Deacon,
Richard B. Fripp, Jun. Warden,
Alexander Smith, Marshal,
Warren N. Woodson, Treasurer,
Frederick Helling Fatt, Steward,
Isaac Frank Moffitt, Secretary,
.Tames Walker, Stewaril,
William Henry Darden, Chaplain,
Elroy Edgar Case, Tyler.

Albertson, Frank Blakeley
Bliss, Nathan Leonard
Brown, Herbert C.
Busey, Allen A.
Case, Elias Payne, P. M.
Case, Edgar Elroy
Case, Mason Nutting
Conway, Edward Frederick
Dale, William
Darden, William Henry
Fa tt, Frederick Helling
Foster, Charles Frederick
Foster, Robert Albert
Fripp, Richard Bacot·
Harper, Hiram Augustus
Hoag, George Alex.
Jacobs, Henry Frederick
Kenney, Marcus Endorus
Kent, Nelson Gilman

465

MEMBERS:
Kincaid, Samuel Wilson, P. M.
Lukens, Ernest Paul
Maynard, John Baptist
l\loffitt, Isaac Frank, P. M.
Mcilroy, John James
Newton, Ferry John
Nichols, William J.
Rice, Napoleon D.
Samson, William Herbert, P. M.
Smith, Alex.
Waite, Frederick Warren
Watkinson, Alfred
Walker, James
Walker, William
Wheeler, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Wilson, Elias McCarty
Woodland, Charles Masters
Woodson, Warren Nicholas
·•

-37

MEMBERS:
Muir, Henry Baker
Martin, John Wesley
Palmer, Charles Edgar
Perry, Frank Fielding
Petrie, Alex. Rays
Richardson, George Washington
Riffe, Abraham Thomas
Roach, Robert Emmet
Roach, Lew Jackson
Rowe, Horace Doolittle
Rice, William Isaac
Smart, David, P. M.
Smart, George Arthur
Selfridge, Edward August
Saxon, William Thomas
Woelffel, George August
White, Gaston David
Walker, Herbert Edward
Youde, George-38.

Auten, Leroy Kendall
Burton, Alfred Conwell, P. M.
Bilodeau, Louis
Blodgett, Walter LeRoy, P. M.
Branscomb, James Henry
Coleman, James Owen
Crossfield, Francis Marion
Disher, George William
Davidson, Allen
Dunlap, Orren
Edwards, William Richard Jones
Fairbanks, Augustus John
Foster, William Anderson Scott
Hensley, Henry Livingston
Hart, Henry Herbert
Irvine, Charles Alonzo
Joyce, James Alfred, P. M.
Le Bars, Joseph
McPeak, Eugene

LAS PALMAS LODGE •. No. 366.
Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William R. Price, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Phillip Bernhard, Master,
Herbert Z. Austin, Senior Warden, James Wiley Smith, Junior Deacon,
Wm. A. Sutherland, Jun. Warden, Albert Bazzle Clark, Marshal,
Charles Sheldon Pierce, Treasurer, Charles Talent Cearley, Steward,
Creighton E. Hamilton, SJcretary, Ralph Roscoe Aten, Steward,
Charles Edward Stewart, Tyler.
Duncan Wallace, Chaplain,
30

466

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Lindsay, Elliott William, P. M.
Allison, Duncan Donald, P. M.
Lingby, Louis
Anderson, John Quincy
Loper, Albert M.
Archibald, Lambert Lewis
Ludvigsen, Peter Erick
Austin, Herbert Z.
Markley, Osborn Lincoln
Austin, John Reubin
Marshall, William Sylvester
Asbury, Frank Herbert
Martin, Joseph Georg13
Baker, Raymond Waldo
Miles, William Oscar
Balch, Albert Eug_e ne
Miller, Frederick Marvin
Barbour, Henry Ellsworth
Mower, Eugene Adelbert
Barrack, Guy
Munger, Albert Luke
Bernhard, Joseph Phillip
Murphy, Leavis Andrew
Bernhard, George Henry
:Niblock, Samuel William
Beveridge, James Young
Noble, Jay Preston
Braverman, Alfrsd
Norton, Paul Bruce
Buker, Humphrey Oscar
Perkins, Darius Enoch
Cearley, Charles Talent
Pickford, George
Chappell, Walter Lee, P. M.
Pierce, Charles Sheldon
Chittenden, Eobert D.
Pottle, James Cyrus, P. M.
Clark, Albert Bazzle, P. M.
Price, William R.
Cowan, Angus Bertram
Primrose, Bert Anderson
Craycroft, Harry Judge
Rohrer, William Newton
Davidson, William, P. M.
Sample, Thomas Nelson
Dick, William
Shirriff, Charles LeBaron
Drew, Alex. M.
Smith, Erenst Nathaniel
Duvall, Joseph James
Smith, Frederick Walter
Eden, William Wallace
Smith, James Wiley
Everts, Alen Lee
Smith, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Fassett, Briceno Aanendez, P. M.
Stewart, Charles Edward
Fassett, Francis Ronello
Sunderland, Alpheus Eugene
Gibson, Louis Wills
Sutherland, William Angus
Grove, Millard Paine
Swift, Harvey Whalen
Hamilton, Creighton Everett
Walden, Charles E.
Hasselbalch, Andre Marion
Walden, Wesley McHenry
Hayden, Thomas Morris
Wallace, Duncan
Heron, John Maxwell
Walrond, Ernest Adolphus
Hill, Calvin Sheok
Walter, Charles L ewis
Holland, Herschel Horace
Waterman, Edward Bentley
Huffman, Milton Decatur
Weldon, Luther Edward
Hutchinson, John Hamilton
Wilkinson, John Howard
Johnson, Herbert 'Greary
Williams, William Rufus
Jones, John Simeon
Wishon, Albert Grave
Jones, Roland D.
Youmans, John H .
Kjaerbye, Claus Peter Hoyer
-87.
Leavitt, Charles Carroll, Jr.

461

SOUTH PASADENA LODGE, No. 367.
South Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Chaplin Pridham, Master,
John Wesley Shenk, Jr., S. Deacon,
Edward E. Barden, Sen. Warden, Charles Wm. Wilson, Jun. Deacon,
Raymond B.· Moore, Jun. Warden, William 'Henry Lowry, Marshal,
Wm. Church Brainerd, Treasurer,
Herbert Jas. Vatcher., Jr., Steward,
John Newell Hunt, Secretary,
Robert Edward Hawkins, Steward,
Thomas I. Gifford, Chaplain,
Alvin E. Pierson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Moffitt, Thomas
Austin, Charles
Axtman, William Francis
Moore, Raymond Bayard
Barden, Edward Everett
Phillips, Frank Henry
Pierson, Alvin E.
Binder, George Lewis
Brainerd, William Church
Postle, Herman Richard
Casmire, John Jacob
Pridham, James Chaplin
Cattern, Frank Addison
Pridham, Richard W oodsworth
Reid, La Verne Sanders
·
Cox, William Lester
Fishburn, Chalmer Good
Reid, Maurice Birdsell
Fishburn, Claud Willard
Seay, Robert Horsley
Garwood, Benjamin Vernon, P. M. Shenk, John Wesley, Jr.
Gifford, Thomas I.
Smith, Sanford Stephen
Harter, Noble
Soper, Joseph Bebe
Hunt, John Newell
Taylor, B. Frank
Jones-, Walker F. D.
Taylor, Charles Newton
Longley, Anzelotto Leonell, P. M. Vatcher, Herbert James
Lowry, William Henry
Wachtell, John Valentine, Jr.
Mackin, Frederick Blair
Waddingham, Albert Bascom
McCluer, James Henry
Williamson, George
Wilson, Charles William--40.
Menderson, Henry

UNITY LODGE, No. 368.

'

)

Glendale, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month..
OFFICERS:
William Alex. Thompson, Master, Arthur Campbell, Senior Deacon,
Frank E. Albright, Sen. Warden, Reuben Zinn Imler, Junior Deacon,
Daniel Campbell, Junior Warden, John Hobbs, Marshal,
Asa Vincent Fanset, Treasurer,
Charles Wilber McFadden, Steward,
John McPeak, Secretary,
Alphonso W. Tower, Steward,
Albert William Collins, Chaplain, .Jesse Sylvania Stine, Tyler.

468

ROSTER.

Albright, Frank Ellsworth
Ayers, Edward
Barnes, George Nuttman
Borthick, Samuel Littleton
Bryant, Allen Lincoln
Burt, Forney Edwin
Burk, Joseph James
Campbell, Daniel
Campbell, Arthur
Camp bell, Frank
Chandler, Alphonso Lafayette
Chandler, Moses Willard
Chandler, Willard Ruggles
Catlin, Charles William
Chase, Raymond Everett
Coker, Harry Percy
Collins, Albert William
Fanset, Asa Vincent ·
Fischer, Charles Bruno
Fischer, Edward Albert
Fuller, Daniel Edward, P. M.
Grannell, Charles Aldon
Griffith, Elijah
Hobbs, John
Imler, David Henry
Imler, Reuben Zinn

MEMBERS:
Larkey, George Emory
Logan, John Arthur
Logan, Olivllr Cunningham
Lowe, Myron Rufus
Malcom, William
McFadden, Charles Wilber
McPeak, John
McWhorter, Wilber Walter
Miller, George Thomas
Mills, William S.
Moore, Stephen Walker
Moyse, George IDysses, P. M .
Ogden, Hiram
Overton, John Lewis
Penn, William Thomas Prosser
Remsburgh, Melvin Zlora
Reynolds, Elbert Deville
Russell, Charles Edward
Schick, Morris
Story, Warren
Taylor, John Hartley
Thompson, William Alex.
Tower, Alphonso Welker
Thorne, William Buckingham
Weidenfeller, Charles
-51.

ROSTER.
Heimann, Richard, Jr.
Honey, Robert
Gage, Herbert Richmond
Gruba, Oscar Edwin
Good, Henry M.
Gorey, Stephen Thomas
Jones, George :M.
Johnson, David
Kiger, William H.
King, Marvin R.
Kelsey, Stephen T.
Lawton, Frank
Lorayea, Henry Eli
Lovelace, Cbarles E.
Meskimen, Charles E.
Makin, John

AMITY LODGE, No. 370.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
William Jay Loveland, Master,
August Lewis Zett, .S enior Deacon,
Edward Stephenson, Sen. Warden, Fred Drew Ashworth, Jun. Deacon,
Frank G. Johnson, Jun. Warden,
Byron DeWitt McDonald, Marshal,
Henry Chas. Klevesahl, Treasurer, Paul Frederick Schaffner, Steward,
Archer Brenton Clark, Secretary,
Robert Forrester Millar, Steward,
James E. Parmelee, Tyler.

Santa Monica, Los Angeles Coun~y.

MEM~ERS·

Stated :Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

Anderson, William Henry
Bryon, Stephen Douglas
Baker, Daniel W.
Bliss, James Dalbett
Danurel, Charles William
Dodge, Charles P.
Dales, John Bertram

Smith, Thomas Galen
Simmons, John Edison
Smith, Olin E.
Rothorne, Charles Clary
RObinson, A. Edward
Retchie, Charles Hamilton
Rogers, Herman E.
Thatcher, Charles Seeley
Tomalin, Eugene S.
Vawter, Edwin James
Von Crunn, John F.
Worner, Lorin Leroy
Woodward, John Ward
Wolff, Frank Corvin
Wagor, Harry M.
Young, Lee Hervey-46.

San Francisco, San Francisco County,

OCEAN PARK LODGE, No. 369.

MEMBERS:
Donahue, Daniel
Fraser, Alex. Roseborough, P. M,.
Fraser, Earl
Farris, William T.
Fonjoy, Charles Allen
Edinger, Rolph
Huff, William T.

469

'

Ashworth, Fred Drew
Alberti, Lawrence Boyer
Burgess, Chandler William
Born, John Albert
Bass, James Gifford
Bradford, Frank Giles
Cain, Richard, P. M.
Clark, Archer Brenton
Conyers, Horace
Crew, Charles Edward
Coppinger, Clarence
Daggett, Leander Bradley
Douglas, Walter Renick
Edwards, George

Eaton, Arthur John
Engle, Frank Thomas
Field, Joseph Clifford
Gilmore, William Solomon
Hunt, Oscar Fred
Hogberg, Henry
Johnson, Frank Gustaf
Jennings, Enos Charles
Kidd, Elmore Allen
Klevesahl, Henry Charles
Kennedy, Robert Vance
Loughery, Robert Johnston, P. M.
Loveland, William Jay
Lillie, Clarence Belcher

470

ROSTER.
Schubert, Charles Edward Wm.
Schaffner, Paul Frederick
Stahle, Charles August
Schott, William John
Stanton, William Palmer
Scamell, Arthur Ernest
Tomkins, Joseph George
Trautvetter, Alex. Otto
Wigney, Benjamin Arthur
Webster, David Frank
Williams, Enoch R.
Wehe, Frederick Peter
Zett, August Lewis
-55.

Lynam, Thomas James
Miller, John H . .
Millar, Robert Forrester
McDonald, Byron DeWitt
McCallum, John H.
Neil, Walter Scott
Osthoff, Henry William
Palmer, George J.
Rude, Martin Hansen
Reed, Alfred Alvin.
Reid, James Archibald
Reid, George Ferguson
Rasmussen, John Charles
Stephenson, Edward

ROSTER.

.,

OCEANIC LODGE, No. 371.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated meetings, last Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Bon, Master,
Merle McN. Johnson, Sen. Warden,
Charles G. Bartlett, Jun. Warden,
Carel Justus DeRoo, Treasurer,
Frederick .Waldron, Secretary,
John Dickson Gaines, Chaplain,
Alexander, Charles Frederic
Andrews, George John
Asbahr, Frank Louis
Atwood, Ozro Millard
Armitage, Harry
Bockus, Charles Ge~ald, P. M.
Bon, Charles
Bartlett, Charles Garfield
Bellina, Charles Henry
Bemrose, Ross Hamilton
Bishop, Charles Herbert
Bowler, Jobn Francis
Breckons, Robert Warren
Buckley, John
Burke, Robert Emmett
Bosson, Charles Lewis

Ross H. Bemrose, Senior Deacon,
John Aurelius Palmer, .Jun. Deacon,
John Robert Collins, Marshal,
Norman S. 1''airweather, Steward,
Orlando J. Whitehead, Steward,
Charles H. Thurston, Tyler.

MEMBER!'!:
Brown, Edgar Marion
Brown, Embert Morelli
Bosse, Gaston John
Baldwin, Herman James
Campton, George, P~ :M.
Coney, John Hawks
Chillingworth, Charles F.
Crowley, David William
Couzens, Harry de Clifford
Collins, John Robert
Capilos, Demosthenes
Culver, Warner Walter
· Carlton, Carl
Coulter, George Thomas
Davis, David Henry
Davis, George Anthony

J

l

Dayton, Davis, P. :M:.
McNicol, Gilbert
Dayton, David Kalaukaua
McAllister, John Walter
Dee, Lawerence Henry
Morton, William B.
DeRoo, Carel Justus
Neeley, Arthur W.
Dillingham, Benjamin Franklin
Norton, Benjamin Hale, P. M.
Donnelly, William John
Nott, John
I1enison, Harry Norwood
Neiman, Ernest Rudulph
DuBose, Tascar Polk
Pinkerton, Samuel
Durant, Albert Allen
Pfeiffer, Charles Henry, P. M. ,
Eaton, William L.
Piltz, George Henry
Edlunds, Frank G.
Pratt, Joseph George
Evans, John Richard
Palmer, John Aurelius
Farrington, Wallace Rider, P. M.
Perry, John M.
Fairweather, Norman Stanley
Rosenberg, Isidor
Goetz, William Henry, P. M.
Reinecke, Henry HermaB Martin
Gartley, Alonzo Floyd
Sager, Isaac La Grange
Greany, Francis De
Schutte, John
• Hurtt, Allen Milton
Schwarzberg, Elmer Louis
Hartman, Ernest Edward
Simerson, Aaron Cook
Hatch, Frank A.
Smith, William Henry
Hayselde~, Harald Thomas
Smith, Charles
Henry, William
Spencer, Joseph
Hilbus, James Francis
Stephenson, George
Harlan, Orlando H.
Sturtevant, Charles Vale
Haughs, David Michell
· Simpson, Harry ·
Hundley, Samuel Napoleon
Thurston, Charles Henry
Hutchins, Robert Jacob
Toussaint, Louis Mathew
Johnson, Merle McNaughton
Towse, Ed., P. M.
Johnson, Edmund
Treadway, Harry Gorham
Johnson, Samuel
Turner, Archie Michel
Johnson, William Paul
Waldron, Frederick
Jewett, John Darneal
Wagner, John Christian
Jessett, William
Ward, Livesey de Leyland, P. M.
Kenakll, William Chaffe
Watson, John B.
Kelly, Thomas
West, Frederick B.
Langston, James fry
Wilkinson, James William
Lee, Charles White
Williams, Charles Edward
Lutted, Oswald James
Williams, James John
Mills, Harry Thomas
Winant, Elmer Terry
Mackenzie, James Harris
Whitehead, Orlando John
Musgrave, Charles Alfred
Watt, Henry Chorley
Morgan, James Ernest
White, William George
Morris, Harris L. Reade
Winkler, Otto
·
Moore, Herbert Thompson
Wright, George Scott
McDonald, Angus Paul
Yount, Wilmer W.-122.

471

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

472

GARDENA LODGE, No. 372.
Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Walter E. McCarrell, Sen. Deacon,
Daniel N. Towne, Master
William J. _Bargin, Junior Deacon,
Lowry H. West, Senior Warden,
George M. Michaels, Marshal,
Alonzo F. Hann, Junior Warden,
John C. Bodgers, Stew11rd,
Mathis G. IWgers, f'reasurer,
John W. Day, Steward,
Newton E. Cowles, Secretary,
Joseph A. Lakey, Tyler.
John D. Green, Chaplain,
Bathrick, James H.
Cowles, Newton E.
Davis, Carl R.
Day, John Warren
Fanning, Biri
Green, John D.
Hann, Orlando Francis
Hamilton, James Wright
Hudson, Richard Heroy
Lakey, Joseph Asbury
Lewis, John Timmon Hardie
Longacre, James
Mccarrell, Walter Van
Michaelis, Adolph William
Micheal, George M.

MEMBERS:
Miller, Charles Frederick
Olney, Edward West
Petman, William
Roberts, William
Rogers, Mathis Gosett
Russell, Thomas Blaine
Spencer, John Foster, P. M.
Stephenson, Christopher Ward
Towne, Daniel N.
Walters, Benjamin
West, Loury Earl
West, Loury Hay
Williams, Hugh E.
Williamson, Frederick B.
-29.

VETERAN LODGE, No. 373.
Sawtelle, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Cyrus Lloyd Edinger, Senior Deacon,
John Henry Dobbfogs, Master,
Clarence J. Nellis, Senior Warden, Edwin Elmer Mudge, Junior Deacon,
Joel Edgar Osborn, Jun. Warden, James Edward Burchard, Marshal,
Marvin Robert Shade, Steward,
Ira Pierce, Treasurer,
Henry John Bonnick, Steward,
William Sharp Smith, Secretary,
Elisha Deives, Tyler.
George Abram Conrey, Chaplain,

..

Axtell, Charles Henry·
Arnold, Edwin M.
Bowerman, Nelson
Bonnick, Henry John
Boyer, Eugene Franklin
Boyer, Leonard Bell
Bartlett, Thomas Herbert
Bales, A. W.
Burchard, James E.
Bottomfield, Sheridan
Baker, Luther J.
Conrey, George Abram
Calhoun, Ezra
Costelloe, Peter
Carnegie, Archibald
Colbert, Patrick
. Conkling, Frank E.
Deives, Elisha
Dobbings, John Henry, P. M.
Dills, George Abdial
Dustin, Charles Lowell
Driggs, Morgan
Edinger, Cyrus Lloyd
Elliott, Mathew
Flanery, David
Gilmore, Hiram
Gill, Edmund Roy
Gill, George Ellerson
Gilford, Andrew Jackson
Hasse, Herman E.
Heagy, Henry Washington
Howard, Charles
Hass, William
Jenkins, Robert
Kelly, Arthur

473

MEMBERS:
Lufk:ins, Frank H.
Lounsberry, William
Lillie, Sylvester
·Lear, Peter R.
May, William Wallace
Mudge, Edwin Elmore
Myrick., Mack Harry
Murch, John Wesley
Murphy, Thomas
Muller, Albert Rudolf
Nellis, Clarence Jones
Oeborn, Joel J!!dgar
Pierce, Ira
Pilgrine, Charles Mart
Peck, George William
Prichard, Martin Howard
Richardson, William
Rohda, August J.
Rice, Sumey Allen
Smith, William Sharp
Smith, Andrew Jackson
Shade, Marvin Robert
Sigman, Marcus H.
St. John, Andrew A.
Sonnesyn, Peter Herman
Simmons, Samuel Benjamin
Ten Eyck, James Campbell
Wilson, Charles August
West, Robert Leslie
Wettstein, Andrew
Wheeler, William Daniel
Wilson, Frank M. .
Warren, James Riley
Yelton, William L.
-69~

JEWEL LODGE, No. 374San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Burnside Cromwell, Master,
Cadmus W. J. Mahood, Sen. Deacon,
Arthur B. Sanborn, Sen. Warden,
Gerald Kenney, Junior Deacon,
Samuel 0. Blodgett, Jun. Warden, Charles Shaw True, Marshal,
William Delany, Treasurer,
Otto B. Romer, Steward,
Robert C. Johnson, Secretary,
John Arthur Snell, Steward,
W. H. Edmundson, Tyler.

474

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Per Axel
Lindley, Paul Jay
~Blodgett, Samuel Omega
-Mahood, Cadmus J. W.
Braendlein, John Conrad
Marlatt, Augustus G.
.-:Bruck, Leo
Mundweyler, John Jacob .
Butler, Andrew Joline
Nevins, Washington
"-{!romwell, Burnside
.--Nolting, Edward A.
-f>avidson, Arthur Douglas
Norcross, Frank Gilman
-i>elaney, William
Reynolds, David L.
Hearn, Thomas Frederick
Romer, Otto Bismark
Jaulus, Bernat
Rusk, William Gee
Johnson, Robert Cummings, P. M. ~anborn, Arthur Byron
-Kenney, Gerald
•
Schuhl, Sylvain
Laehman, Louis
Simpson, Joseph Dodd
--Lada, Edward B.
Snell, John Arthur
Levy, Louis·
True, Charles Shaw
-Levy, Mark Eugene, P. M.
-Wayman, Mark-32.

ROSTER.

1

f

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Chas. Lawrence Goetting, Master,
Douglass B. Crane, Senior Deacon,
Robert W. Smith, Senior Warden, Alfred Jacob Zobel, Junior Deacon,
Arnold W. Liechti, Junior Warden, Chalmer C. Munday, Marshal,
John Faubel, Treasurer,
Benjamin Allen Mandi9, Steward,
Arthur Wm. Bennett, Steward,
Havelock Fourness, Secretary,
Justus S. Wardell, Chaplain,
William Burbeck, Tyler.
Baptist, Joseph
Barth, August Herman
Bennett, Arthur William
Bidwell, Walter Edmund
Bransford, Edgar McDowell
Brownlee, John P.
·
Burbeck, William
Clark, Henry Augustus
Clarke, Benjamin Franklin .
Collins, Asa Weston
Crane, Douglass Barnitz
Faubel, John

MEMBERS:
Fischer, Ernest Louis
Fourness, Havelock
Freiermuth, Henry Hervey
Goetting, Charles Lawrence
Hamilton, John Williams
Johnson, Shirley Wayman
Kennedy, Daniel Webster
Kenny, William Rowland
Larsen, Louis Albert, P. M.
Liechti, Arnold Winkebried
Mann, James Monroe
Mardis, Benjamin Allen

Sta.ndard, William H.
Temple, James Howard
Tichnor, Austin K.
Walker, Joshua
Wardell, Justus Struver
Young, Edward Livingston
Zobe', Alfred Jacob
Zobel, Jacob-40.

FRANCIS DRAKE LODGE, No. 376.

RICHMOND LODGE, No. 375.
San Francisco, San Francisco Connty.

Momyer, Harry E., Jr.
Momyer, Henry Eastman
Morris, Robert
Munday, Chalmer C.
McLeod, Charles H.
Niemeyer, Henry Albert
Purdy, Frederic
Smith, Robert W.

475

I
I

•

South San Francisco, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George F. McDonald, Master,
Frank P. Edwards, Senior Deacon,
Jesse O. Snyder, Senior Warden,
Harry G. Plymire, Junior Deacon,
John J. McDonald, Jtinior Warden, Robert K. Patchell, Marshal,
Edwin R. Lawson, Treasurer,
George A. Newberry, Steward,
William J. Martin, Secretary,
James Taylor, Steward,
Fred A. Cunningham, 1.yler.
MEMBERS:
Bresnan, Timothy
McDonald, George Franklin, P. M.
McDonald, John James
Brown, Ephraim Nixon
\.;oombes, Samuel Arthur
Newberry, George Akin
Cunningham, Fred Alonzo
Patchell, Robert Kelso
Perham, George Lawrence
Edwards, Frank Porter
Plymire, Harry Garretson
Guerra, John
Holston, George William
Plymire, David Brandly
Hynding, Andrew
Smith, Du Ray
Kauffmann, Edward Philip
Snyder, Jesse Oglevee
Lawson, Edwin Richard
Styles, Harry Eckford
Ludermann, Adolph Fred
Taylor, James
-23.
Martin, William James

ARTESIA LODGE, No. 377.
Artesia, Los Angeles Connty.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Reed Frampton, Master,
Guy Bennet Gamble, Senior Deacon,
Fred Hiram Purdy, Sen. Warden.
Augustus S. Perrie, Junior Deacon,
Walter N. Frampton, Jun. Warden, Levi Carse, Marshal,
William Harvey Smith, Treasurer, .Zeanus Maywood Courtney, Steward,
Robert Matthew Cox, Secretary,
William A. Sackett, Jr., Steward,
John Sewright, Chaplain,
Grant Elmer Gamble, Tyler.

476

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Hayes, William Bealey
Jolly, James Richardson
Mills, John Benjamin
Morse, Fred Theo.
McKinney, Myron Robert
Norton, Frank Logan
Perrie, Augustus Sherman
Purdy, Fred Hiram
Sackett, William Alford
Sackett, William Alford, Jr.
Sackett., Joseph David
Sewright, John
Sanderson, Andrew Jesse
Smith, William Harvey
Wright, Will~am Ephraim-30;

Carse, Levi
Courtney, Joseph Edwin
Courtney, Zeanus Maywood
Cox, Robert Matthew
Dohn, Phillip Carl
Dalley, Rolland Evert
Frampton, George Reed, P. M.
Frampton, Walter Nelson
Frampton, Arthur Edwin
Frampton, Douglas Lighton
Felts, George Wesley
·
Gamble, Grant Elmer
Gamble, Guy Bennett
Gillespie, Edwin Grant
Hathaway, Dexter Chamberlin

T

Roberts, William Nathaniel
Robb, Charl!ls Miron
Sebastian, Charles Edward, P. M.
Stair, Edward
Snyder, Charles Frank
Taylor, Ora

477

'J'aylor, Roland D.
'fyrrell, Frank G.
Virgo, George Edward
Zimmer, Nathan Warren
Ziegler, Thompson Harry
-33.

FILLMORE LODGE, No. 379.
Fillmore, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Gilbert E. Webb, Master,
Ira Loomis Hinckley, Sen. Deacon,
Willis Burson, Senior Warden,
Oscar Henry Welch, Junior Deacon,
John P. Hinckley; Junior Warden, .Benjamin F. Kenney, Marshal,
Richard Stephens, ·Treasurer,
Edward Wright Burson, Steward,
James N. Bowie, Secretary,
James. F. Allee, Steward,
John Point Trotter, Tyler.

MIZPAH LODGE, No. 378.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated.Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

MEMBERS:

OFFICERS:
Charles Edward Sebastian, Master,
Wm. Wash. Richards, Sen. Warden,
James Wm. Calder, Jun. Warden,
Royal Francis Clark, Treasurer,
Ora Taylor, Secretary,
Frank Gill Tyrrell, Cha plain,

Allee, James Francis
Anderson, William Newton
Bower, Homer Andrew
.Burson, Edward Wright
Burson, George Washington
Burson, John William
Burson, Willis.
Dorman, Eugene Earl
Fleet, Walter Hugi!.
Grimes, John A.
Guiberson, Nathaniel Greene
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Harthorne, Charles Whitney

Michael Roy Raftery, Sen. Deacon,
Bartholomew Marchese, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Edward Dixon, Marshal,
James Rice Powell, Steward,
Harry Lindsay Bateman, Steward,
Adolph J. Maas, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Battram, Henry Samuel
Bateman, Harry Lindsay
Barlow, Geo.r ge Frederick
Calder, James William
Calder, Hugh Forrester
Clark, Royal Francis
Donaghy, George
Dixon, Charles Edward
Graham, Albert Edward
Graham, Alfred Henry
Ivy, James Lancnear

Ingram, William Marque
Marchese, Bartholomew
Mason, John Anustus
Moses, Thomas William
Martin, John Henry
Powell, James Rice
Peterson, Julian Ingersoll
Richards, William Washington
Raftery, Michael Roy
Raftery, Thomas Albert
Redmond, Clement James

t

Hinckley, Ira Loomis
Hinckley, John Powell
Kenney, Benjamin Franklin
Martin, Ira Benjamin
Maw, Norman Francis
Riley, West
Sallee, Robert Franklin
Stephens, Richard
Sutton, Edward Esington
Walker, James
Webb, Gilbert Elisha, P. M.
Welch, Oscar Henry
Wileman, Thoma&-26.

ROSTER.

478

HUNTINGTON

BEACH LODGE, No. 380.

Huntington Beach, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Andrew Wylie Gritlith, .Master,
Herbert J. Pollard, Senior Deacon,
John Jacob Goetz, Senior Wardeu, George M. Miller, Junior Deacon,
George A. Shank, Junior Warden, Frederick Trodd, Marshal,
Foster E. Wilson, Treasurer,
George Albert Corbett, Steward, .
Spencer L. Blodget, Secretary,
Cyrus T. Ingersoll, Steward,
Edward Hiram Darling, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Blodget, Spencer Langdon, P. M.
Hoornbeck, Eugene
Huber, Orlando Henry, P . M.
Corbett, George Albert
Day, James Allen
Ingersoll, Cyrus Tweedy
Fisher, Eugene Irving
McDonald, John
Gillespie, Julius Milton
Miller, George M.
Goetz, John Jacob
Pollard, Herbert James
Graft'; George Roy
Shank, George Austin
Griffith, Andrew Wylie, P. M.
Trodd, Frederick
Harrison, Frederick Earl
Wilson, Foster Ebenezer-18.

OCEANSIDE LODGE, No. 381.
Oceanside, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Van D. Nichols, Master,
Fred 'k Wm. Pittenger, Sen. Deacon, ·
John Manning,, Senior Warden,
John Franklin Martin, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. Addison Lane, Jun. Warden, John Alb.e rt Tulip, Marshal,
Frederick Wm. Rieke, Treasurer,
Simon Goldbaum, Steward,
Arthur Hugh Belt, Secretary,
Eugene Viele Grift'es, Steward,
John N. Torrance, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Belt, Arthur Hugh
Martin, John Franklin
Davis, Ira Woodard
Manning, John, P. M.
Franklin, Will Cook
Martin, Isaac
Goldbaum, Simon
Nichols, Wm. Van Derveer, P. M'.
Grift'es, Eugene Viele
Pittenger, Frederick William
Hall, Nathan
Sharp, Joseph Lewis
Herman, Leopold He~ry Penniman Shaul, Marion J.
Jones, Joseph
Torrance, John Norcrog
Tulip, ·J ohn Albert.:.._18.
Lan.e, George Addison

Orand Lodge o l Ii f
----

•
111a

I, GWR<..r; ]OHNSoN,'Gra
the M
of Free and Accepted Mason
tion
true
hereby certify that the following P<
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand
its
ranc
Annual Communication-commenced at the City
Tuesday, the. eighth day of October, A. L. 5907,
'nate
Friday the eleventh day of said month.

h

1• pf

I have hereunto appende
official

signature

and

ha

affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary in the City of San
Francisco, this first day of November, in the year of Lig~t,
Five Thousand Nine Hundred
and Seven.

EDWARD H. HART
Grand Ma•ler

1907

•

•

Orand Lodge of California
w:.

I, GEOR<,;; JOHNSON, Grand Secretary of the M.".
Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Fifty-eighth
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the eighth day of October, A. L. 5907, and terminated 0n
Friday the eleventh day of said month.
0

3/u Wtlftimnu11 lrqrrrnf
I have hereunto appended my
official

signature

and

have

affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the State of California, at the office of the Grand
Secretary in the City of San
Francisco, !his first day of November, in the year of Light,
Five Thousand Nine Hundred
and Seven.

EDWARQ H. HART
GranJ M<Uler
1907

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M. ·. W. ··.GRAND LODGE
OF

OF THE

Jurisdiction of California,
AT ITS

FIFTY-EIGHTH

ANNUAL COMMUNICATION,
HELD AT THE

City of San Francisco:
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 8th, A. D, 1907, A. L 5907,
AND TERMINATED ON

Friday, October I Ith, A. O, 1907, A. (... 5907.

SAN FRAXCISCO:
SHANNON-CONMY PRINTING Co., 5(Y.l CLAY STREET.

1907.

(

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 5907.

M.". w:. Gw. M. PtRIID: ....... Grand Master ....• San Francisco;
R.". w:. R!iUBliN H. LLOYD ... .. Dep. Gr. Master .. . San Francisco;
R.". w:. OscAR LAWLJiR ....... . Sen. Gr. Warden ... Los Angeles;
R.". w:. WILLIAM F . PI!iRC!i .. .. Jun. Gr. Warden ... San Francisco:
v:. w:. EDWARD CoLtMAN ... .'.Grand T.reasurer ... San Francisco;
V . ·. W. ·. Gm. JOHNSON . . .. ..... Grand Secretary . .. San Francisco;
v:. w:. THOMAS J. BAKU ... .• Grand Lecturer . ... San Francisco;
v:. R :. ERNliST E. BAK!iR .... . Grand Chaplain . ... Oakland;
W:. J ACOB N IliTO ........ . .. Grand Orat or . ... . San Francisco ;
W. ·. HARRY S. JOHNSON . . .. Asst. Gr. Sec'ty . ... San Francisco;
w:. WILLIAM Ki:TTN!iR .... . Grand Marshal. .. . San Diego;
w:. CHAUNCEY C. Busu ... Gr. Bible Bearer .. . Redding;
W.". ALB.F.RT B. W!iBSTER .... Gr. Stan' d Bearer . . Oakland.
W. · · EMANU!iL J. Lours .... Gr. Sword Bearer.. San Diego;
w:. DiiLOS W. SMYTH!i . . . . Sen. Gr. Deacon .. . San Jose;
w:. ADAM BROWN ..... . •. Jun. Gr. Deacon .. . Arroyo Grande;
w:. }AMES C. ENSIGN ... . . . Sen. Gr. Steward . . Hanford;
w:. FRED V./. VAN SICKL!iN Jun. Gr. Steward . . Alameda;
w:. JosHUA D. TucKJiR ... . Grand Pursuivant.. Honolulu, H.T.;
w:. SAMUliL D. MAYER .. . . Grand Organist... . San Francisco;
W.'.. GEO. P. ADAMS ...... .. Grand T~kr.. .... . . San Francisco.

GRAND LODGE
OF

FREE

AND

ACCEPTED

MASONS

OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
'

FIFTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.
The M9st Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Ac.
cepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of Cal"f
1 orma
its F"f
· h
commenced
I ty-e1g th Annual Communication at the Gold
G
Commandery Building, in the City of San F
~n ilte
Tuesday, the 8th day of October A L 5907 ~anc1sc.o, on
a. m.
' · ·
' a Io a clock

542

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Upon calling the roll of members there were found
present the following:

GRAND LODGE Oli' CALIFORNIA.

543

And the Representatives of two hundred and forty-two
chartered Lodges and Delegates from eight Lodges under
dispensation.

GRAND OFFICERS.

M:. w:. EDWARD H. HAR'l' ..•.•.....•.. Grand Master;
R. ·. w. ·.GEORGE M. PERRINE ........... Deputy Grand Master;
R.·. w .·. REUBEN H. LLQYD ............ Senior Grand Warden;
V:. W: .'EDWARD COLEMAN ....• .......• Grand Treasun:r;
V. ·• W. ·. GEORGE JoHNSON ...........•. Grand Secretary;
v:. w:. WILLIAM H. EDWARDS ........ Grand Lecturer;
v. ·• R. ·. ERNES'l' BAKER .... .... .. ... Grand Chaplain;
W:. JACOB NIE'l'O ••..........•..... Grand Orator;
W:. HARRY S. JOHNSON ......... . . Assistant Grand Secretary ;
DELOS W. SMY'l'HE ........... Grand Marshal;
CHAUNCEY C. BusH .......... Grand Bible Bearer;
AR'l'HUR]. THA'l'CHER ......... 0rand Sword Bearer;
w:·. THOMAS J. BAKER . ........••• Senior Grand Deacon;
ALBER'l' B. WEBS'l'ER ........ • •. Junior Grand D~con;
w. •. JoHN T. MORRISON .......•.•. Senior Grand Steward;
ALBER'l' L. REED .. .. .........•. Junior .Grand Steward;
SAMUEL D. MAYER ..........• Grand Organist.
GEORGE P. ADAMS •.....•...... Grand . Tyler.

E.

w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.
w:.

PAST GRAND OFFICERS.

M:. w:. GEORGE. C. PERKINS .........•• Past Grand Master;
M:. w.;. SAMUEL C. DENSON ... ·...•• .'. Past Grand Master;
M:. w:.EnMU?W c. A'l'KINSON .....•.. Past Grand Master;

s.

M.". w.·. HENRY
ORME ..........••.. Past Grand Master;
M:. w:.JAMES B. S'l'EVENS ..•..•...•..• Past Grand Master;
M:.
WILLIAM T. LucAS ..•...••••• Past Grand Master;
M. ·. W. •• THOMAS FLIN'l' .......••.••... Past Grand Master;
M:. w:.FRANK M."ANGl!LLO'l"l'I. ....... Past Grand Master;
M:. W:. CHARLES L. P A'l"l'ON .....••••. Past Grand Master;
M. •. W. ·. JAMES A. FosHAY .....•...•.. Past Grand Master;
M.·. w.·. ORRIN s. HENDERSON •••..•... Past Grand Master;
'M:.
CHARLES W. NU'l"l'ING ....•..• Past Grand Master;
M:. w:.GEORGE w. HuN'l'ER .......•.•. Past Grand Master;
M.·. w.·. Mo'l'LEY H. FLIN'l' .....•....•• Past Grand Master;
·R.·. w.·.joHN Q. ADAMS .•• ·......••••• Past Deputy Grand Master;
R::
JACOB H. NEFF .•......•.•..•.Past Junior Grand Warden.

w:.

w:.

w:.

The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the appointment pro tempore of W:. William P. Jeffries, as
Junior Grand Warden;
Roderick G. Guyett as Grand
Standard Bearer, and W:. Joshua D. Tucker as Grand
Pursuivant. He also appointed the W. ·. George E. Church
to fill a vacancy in the Committee on Grievances.

w:.

1.'here being a sufficient representation, the Grand
Lodge was opened in Ample Fann, with music by the choir
and prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
following committees:
William J. Golcher,
Samuel E. Burke,
On ·Credentials . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Abraham P. Leach,
• ·
{ John W. Kemp,
Harry S. Johnson.
Richard C. Rust,
James C. Pottle,.
On Charters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Orville D. Stone, '·
.
{ Luther A. Renner,
John Flagg.
.

Charles Bone,
Edgar E. Selph,
On By-Laws of Lodges ............... JoJ:i~ W. Cameron,
{ Jeremiah ]. Wilson,
.
Theo. J. MilliJ:cen.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clot!k
this afternoon.

544

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

545

CURTIS M .. BARKER, Master;

San Jose .. ... . .... No. 10 . . LOUIS V. SAPH, Senior Warden;
{

•
Afternoon Session,
Tuesday, October 8th, A. L. 5907.

J . P. JARMAN, Past Master.

·

CHARLES E. TRow.J!i, Senior Warden;
B. JOHNSON, . . . . . }
Yount . . ... .. .... . No. 12 . . D. S. KYSER,
..
Past Masters.
.
{ J . B . STEv... Ns,
F. w. WILI,IAMS,
.

c.

Nevada .. . . .. .. . . No . u.JHENRY A. STENGER, Master;
l F. L. ARBOGAST, Past Master.

The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
Bro. William J. Golcher, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following Officers and Representatives of chartered Lodges, Delegates from Lodges under
dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz., from'

California ... . ... . No.

1. .

l

.Past Masters.

THOMAS SEHABIAQUE, Master and Past Ms'r;
HENRY MOTTET, Senior Warden ·
La Parfaite Union.No. 17 .. ANTONIO L. AuRAoou, Junior W~rden;
M. G<>LDARACENA,
·
A. HUGUENIN,
Past Masters.

·

Jlo.

l

J

WILLIAM J. G<>LCHER, Master ;

Mountain Shade ... No. 18 .. E. L. CASE, Past Master.

H. ASCROFT,
H. A. CLINE,
G. JOHNSON,

San Joaquin ....... No. 19 .. JOSEPH A. STITF.s, Senior Warden.

c. L. PATTON,
E. PEABODY,
C. M. Pr,uM,
W. A. SCOTT,
LR. H. WILLCOX,

J

Washington : .... . No. 20 .. ]. J. McKINNON, Past Master and Rep.

p

M
ast

asters.

. LE. SWEENY,

Hawaiian .. . .... . No. 21.. J. D. TucK:llR, Representative.
JAMES M. CLEAVES, Master;

Occidental ... . .... No. 22 .. WALTER K. FLETCHER, Junior Warden;
{
W . V. BRYAN, Past Master.

rw1U.IAM A. SPEAK, Master;

Western Star . .... No. 2. -~ c. E. BROWN,

Tehama .. ... . ... . No.

1

CHRISTIAN F. RrcHT£R, Senior Warden;

Eureka .... . ... .. . No. 16 . . M . D. LININGER,
{ J. H. NEFF,
.

l

Past Masters.

rToHN w. WARREN, Master;
J . . CARPENTER,
}
Past Masters.
B. DAVIS,

3. ·tRw.

Benicia . .... .. .. . . No. 5. . 5D. M . .WATSON, Past Master and Rep'tivc;

1E. M. Bn.LINGs; Past Master.

Tuolumiie ... . ... . No. 8.. RoBERT E. RUDELL, Master.
Corinthian .. . ... . No. 9 .. Louis B. WILCOXEN, Master.

rBENNETT OPIE, Master;

Madiso11 . .. .. . .. ..No. 23 .. JF. AVER,
l E. COLEMAN,

}
Past Masters.

LJ. c. COLEMAN,

Mariposa . : ... . .. . No. 24 . . E . P. WASON, Past Master.

·
fl. G. Sw1FT, Past Master and Representative ;
Georgetown .... .. No. 25 .. ~G. W. SIMPERS,
l

ll· WADJ;;,

J Past Masters.

Louis A. RtEG, Master;
Palmyra ........ ..No. 26 .. DANIEL G. CARR, Junior Warden;
{ M. Mn:RsoN, Past Master.

·

546

GRAND LODGE Oli' CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Suisun ......... . . No. 55 .• WILLIAM J. Moon:, Senior Warden.

CHARLES L . PARKS, Master;
WILLIAM W. THOMPSON, Senior Warden;
.
ABRAHAMS. SULLIVAN, Junior Warden;
1

l

E. L. MEYER,
Golden Gate . . .... No. 30 . . W. S. MosEs,
J. PATTERSON,
A. H . PHELPS,
, C. A . WEGENER,
G. 'WRIGHT,

.

Santa Rosa ....... No. 57 .• A. V. McNAB, Past Master.
EDWARD F. WILLI, Master;
}
{ W. W, DouGLAS,
Past Masters.

Union .......... . . No. 58 .. T. J. BAKER,

JPast Masters.
.

. w.

•

JABRAHAM P . LEACH, Master;
HARRY V. BLASDEL, Senior Warden ;
MARTIN M. HOFFMAN, Junior Warden;
. . c. F. GULICK,

Gold Hill ........ . No. 32 . .JW. JANSEN, Past Master and Representative;

lJ. GERBER, Past Master.

Live Oak . •.•.••. .•No. 61. '1RE. WH. HART,

San Diego ..... . .. No. 35 .. SILAS M. P UYER, Master.

. MEEK,
W. S. SMITH,
A. B. WEBSTER,
F. G. WIGHT,
J. A. BECKWITH,

St. John's . . . .. . : .. No. 37.JPttllR J. CHAPPELL, Master;

lJ. J. WILSON, Past Master.

Santa Cruz . ... . ... No. 38 .. E. S. WEST, Past Master and Representative
. ·{ABRAM W. LEWIS, Master;
} .
E. E. STONE,
Past Masters.

Yuba .. . .. . . ... . ..No. 39 .. J. B. I<'ULLl'l!, ,

'JWILLIAM H . MoTT SR., Master;
GEORGE C. BASSETT, Senior Warden ;
S acramen t o . . . . . . . N o. 4-0 . . E C A
}
TKINSON,
.
. W. M. PttRIE,
Past Masters.

l

547

..

,J ·wu.LIAM A . HALE, Master and Past Master;

Past Masters.

Geo. Washington .. No. 62 .. JOHN A. SMITH, Master and Past Master.
Natoma ......... . No. 64 . .JP. C. COHN, Past Master and Representative.

l C. L. EcKLON, Past Master.

. rRICHARD c. RusT, Master and Past Master;

Amador .......... No. 65..{J. E. Dn,
LS. G. SPAGNOLI,

l

S Past Masters.

Morning Star ..... No. 68 . JHmAM F. F. MERRILL, Junior Warden;

l 0 . S. HENDERSON, Past Master.

Martinez . ..... . . . No. 41. . RAL NNDABLL H. LATIMER, Senior Warden;
)

.

.

UTTNER,

}

-. lA. B. WILSON,

Past Masters.

Enterprise· ... . ... . No. 70. JWILLIAM R. CARPENTER, Master;
.

{ J. W. ASHLEY, Past Master.

Los Angeles ... . ... No. 42 .. ASHTON A. WELLS, Master.

Bear Mountain . .. . No. 76 . .JLAWRENCE G. SwE:trLAND, Master;

WILLIAM H. DOLLING, Master;
l CLARENCE ERICKSON, Senior Warden ;
GEORGE w. HABERLY, Junior Warden;
Mount Moriah .. .. No. 44 .. T. FROLICH,
}
J.C. JENS,
·
J. F. SCHROTH, .
Past Masters.

JOHN W. Dmz, Master;
· . JACOB P . SNYDER, Senior Warden & P. Master
Calaveras .... .. ... No. 78 . • C. R BtAL,
·
}
.
·{ F. J. SoLINSKY,
Past Masters.
.
. . . J. WATERS,

. .

~

l

A. WOODSIDE,
•

·

11

_

l f: W. CLOUGH, Past Master.

•

·

·

{T1rnxTOM R. DINSMORE, Master;

l

Texas .. . .. . . . ... .'No. 46 .. WILLIAM R . FLI~T, Master and Past Master.

Humboldt ....... . No . .79 •. G. W. HUNTER,

. .'t
N 5l {WALTER R. CULVER, Master and Past Master;
Ill inois own . . . . . . o. . . A S
p
M
. TEVENS, ast aster.

lone. . : , .... : ..... . No. 80., Wu;r,IAM W. MCCLOSKEY, Senior Wa~den.

0

.

A . .J. MoNRoE,

·sPast Masters.

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALEXANDER GREIG, Master;

Naval ............ No. 87. • WILLIAM H. MICHIU,L, Senior Warden;
:!{ A. McDArn, Past Master.
Quitman .. ..... . ..No. 88 .. J. GLASSON, Representative.

JoHN P. ALBRO, Master;
JosEPH D. ABRAMS, Senior Warden;

P. M.
DAVIS,
Fidelity ........ . No. 120 .. J.
ELLIS,

f

1

M. GoLDMAN,

Rose's Bar .. . ..... No. 89 .. WILLIAM G. RoBSON, Master and Past Master.
North Star ........ No. 91 .. R. M. WALKER, Past Master and Rep'tive.
ALBERT W. NORRIS, Master;
Acacia ...... . ... . No. 92 .. H. MAHLER,
} p t M t
{ L. THOMAS,
as
as ers.
FRtDtRICK WERNER, Master and Past Master.
Henry Clay ....... No. 95 .. L. KATz,
} p t M t
{ M. D. NixoN,
as
as ers.

J. NIETO,

Past Masters.

l

C. SCHLESSINGER,

Alamo ......... .. No. 122 .. CECIL J. BOOTH, Master and Past Master.
Sotoyome ...... . No. 123. jW. \V. FERGUSON, Past Master and Rep'tive.

U· H. GUNN, Past Master.

Hermann ....... . No. 127 .. AUGUST Bus~t, Master and Past Master.
Visalia ......... . No. 128 .. F. LAMBERSON, Representative.
Woodbridge ... .. No. 131.j~EoRGE F. McNoBLE, Master;
l F. PERROTT, Past Master.

'{FRANK G. POLLARD, Master;
Howard ..... .. .. . No. 96 .. H. C. D:EWITT,
}p t M t
as • as ers.
,
J. R , T APSCOT't,

Yosemite ....... . No. 133 . . THOMAS B. McCAR'l'll:Y, Senior Warden.

Jefferson .. . .. . .. . No. 97 .. GILBERT MAY, Master and Past Master.

Vacaville . . ..... . No. 134 .. )OHN T . MoNTGoMERY, Senior Warden;

:{STERLING P . DOBBINS, Master;

OaEsTus H. ALLISON, Junior Warden.

La Grange ........ No. 99 .. FRtDEIUCK W. HEITMAN, Senior Warden.
Clay . ... .. .. ... . No. 101.. GEORGE R. FALLER, Senior Warden.
Manzanita .• . ... . No. 102 .. G:EoRG:E M . HARRIS, Master and Past Master.
.11
N
SHARllY JACOBY,. Master;
Orovi e · · · · · · · · · 0 • 103 • • l HitRJll!RT J.. GRAHAM, Senior Warden.

Lexington ...... . No. 104 ..•.\I.FRED C. DRAKE, Master.
Arcata ......... . No. 106 .. OE'l'JE H. G. MARKEN, Sen. Warden & P. M.

1

GtoRGJt H. 0HEA, Master;
Eden .. .......... No. 113 .. ALLAN E. PELTON, Senior Warden;
{ Gl!OaG& J . HELMS, Junior Warden.

Concord . .. ...... No. 117. j JAMl!S FJ. LHYON, MaJste;; W
1Gl!ORGE .

ARRIS, u.mor

Valley ... .. .... ..No. 135. . C. C. CASE, Past Master and Representative
lCHARLES E . JACKSON, Master;
EUGENE S. ELKUS, Junior Warden;
. J. w. ANDEKSON,
G. L . DARLING,
Pacific ..... . .... . No. 136 .• JW. H. EDWARDS,
)W. E. LUTz,
.Past Masters.
G. PENLINGTON,
T. PENLINGTON,
G. M. PERLIN!!,
A.
TURPIN,

~

i w.

N 0 lll. jRICHARD PHILLIPS, Master;
C
hico · · · · · · · · · · · •
E. M&YBEM, Past Master.

d
ar en.

Clfnton ......... . No. 119.. )AMl!s W. GEORGE, Master and Past Master.

549

JOHN P. CoURT, Master;
ALBO.T P. H:EISJ!, Senior Warden;
JAMltS 0. L. BRUNSWIG, Junior Warden;
Crockett ........ . No. 139 .. G. w. GitAUQUE,
}
HILDl\RBRAND,
KAHN,
Past Masters.
H. Nl\WHOFF,
T. ROWLANDS,

fc.

l

w.

5fl0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

551

Curtis ........... No. 140 .. EDWARD A. CooUY, Master and Past Master.

Alameda ........ No. 167.JCHARLEs EVANS, Master and Past Master·

SH. D. Ki!RcHl\VAL, Past Master and Rep'tive.
l ]. H. HYDl!, Past Master.

'

•
·
N
..
Franklin ;. · · · · · · · 0 • 143

OscAR P . HICKS,' Master;
ROBERT R. MooDY, Senior Warden;
ARMAND E. BRIGGS, ] uni or Warden;
C. BONJ!,
w. R. L. CAMPBELL,

Oriental ........ . No . 144.

C. W. DoBII\,
R. C. }EWJ!I,L,
· F. B. LADD,
R. H. LLOYD,
H. E. PENNELL,
G. H. THOMPSON,
]. M. TROUTT,

1

l ABBOTT SATTl\RTHv.~AIT, Senior Warden.

Redwood City .... No. 168 . . SRoY W. Cwun, Senior Warden;

,

.

l T. 0. HEYDl\NFELDT, Past Master.

EDWARD F. CRostTT, Master;
FRANK H. THRALL, Junior Warden·
R.
ALLl\N,
'
M' .
]. R. HILLMAN,
'
ission ........ . No. 169 .. G. W. LuNT,

f

s.

IW. W. MooR:i;;,
w. c. ORDWAY,

]. THOMPSON,
· E. W. TucxtR,

Elk Grove ... . ... No. 173 .. EDWARD C. STEPHl\NSON, Master.

rEnwIN G. CASI\, Master;
Abell . . .... . .... . No. 146 .. ~J. H. MANNON, SR,
p
M
A. J. THATCHER,
S ast asters.

l

Eel River ........ No. 147 .• RonERT L. HARRIS, Senior Warden.
Lassen ......... . No . 149 .. }AMES A. PARDEE, Junior Warden.
Molino ......... . No. 150 .• ]OHN SIMPSON, Master and Past Master.

Drytown · ······.No: 174. · F. B. LtMorn, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Phoenix · · ······.No. 178. · MERWYN]. NEWBl\RG, Junior Warden.

M

1
.
(SAMUEL SPl\l\R, Master·
endocmo ....... No. 179 .. ~T. ]. Rri::HARDS,
' }
I C. J. Woon,
Past Masters.

l

.

{HtRMAN WtBER Master·

Petaluma · · · · · · · · N o. 180 · · F Rl!D'K.· A. NAUERT,
'
'
Senior Warden;

E: S. LIPPITT, Past Master.

R. WILCOXSON, Senior Warden;
W oo di'an d . . . . . . . N o. 156 . . ICALEB
B B
p
M
. ALL, ast
aster.

Clear Lake·.·· . .. No. 183.

Keystone .. . .... ..No. 161 .. S. D. HILDEBRAND; Past Master and Rep'tive.

Sierra Valley.·· .. No. 184 .. SAMUEL H. CRow, Master.

}OHN W. CAMERON, Master;
HtRMAN C. GINGG, Senior Warden;
CHARLES A. ADAMS, Junior Warden;
' T. T. ATKINSON,
l C.H. BRYAN,
I
I
N. BRUNT,

w.

Excelsior ....... . No. l~ .• C. Coox,
E. L. FoRsTtR,
: R. G. GUYETT,

j F . c. HENSUY,
) L. C. HUNTER,
; H . J. OwtN,
' ]. ]. STOFl\N,
0. F. WESTPHAL,

Past Masters.

l

Past Masters. •

l
l

•

Past Masters.

LuK:i;; EVANS, Master.

Evening Star.··· .No. 186. · C. W. NUTTING, Past Master and Rep'tive.
.

,

.

JJAMES C. PATISON, Master;

Keith ........ ·· .. No. 187 .. lHENRY L. WILD, Junior Warden.
CHARLES E. KtYts, Master;
WILLIAM I. MAcDoNALD, Junior Warden;
J. A. BRITToN,
] A. K. CLARK,
Oakland ........ . No. 188 .. R. B. GAYLORD,
l J. B. MtRRITT, .
Past Masters.
W. F. Pn:RCt, ••
G. c. PERKINS,
G. I-I. SMITH,
F. Wn.LIAMSON,

I

w.

'

.

553

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
M . J . ROGJ\Rs; Past Master 'and Rep'tive.

. ht.. . N o. 190 .. WILLIAM G. WAGON:ER, Master.
Northern L 1g
I

SanBuenavent11ra.No. 214 .. D.]. Rttst,_
'

reARSON c. HANS:EN, S~nior Warden;

JWILLIAM E. RoB:ERTSON, Junior Warden;

Marin · · · ······ ·.No. 191. "lF M ANGJ\LLoTTI
· ·
'
G. F . RoDDtN,

lp

M

S ast

asters.

rEDMUND D. Ru:e, Master;

Oak Grove .. . . . . . No. 215 . . ~BURTON E . CoMBS, Senior Warden ;.

} Past Masters.

lJAM:ES H . McNuTT, Junior Warden.

Santa Barbara .. . No. 192 .. MtRVIN C. FAULDING, Junior Warden.

Mosts M . GtTz, Master;
WII.LIAM L. ScOTT, Senior Warden;
HtNRY W. WATKINs,. Junior Warden;

FerndaIe . . . . . . . . N o. 193 .• D . A. FRANCIS, Representative.

J

C. BAU:ER,
Doric . ... ...... .N -°· 216 .. A.
L Goo

Mountain View . . No. 194 .. C. P . BtRRY, Past Master.

DDAY,
MYRSON,
TRtB:ELL,
F. L. WIGHT,

l

.

}

s.
w.

Buckeye .. .. .... . No. 195 .. Louis A. SACK:ET'l', Master.
.
N 196 . . AL"x.
"' PAT:ERSON, Master and Past Master.
S an S imeon.. . ... o.
· t on
nur1
' ming

{ B. T. WILLIAMS,

Past Masters.
.

Monterey ...... . N o. 217 . . ERN:EST A. S'cHOLzt, 1'!aster and Past Master.

. . . . . No . 198 . . A . YOUNG• Past Master and Representative.

SALB:ERT M. RtYNOI.DS, Master;

Mosaic . . . . . .... . No. 218 . . W . ScHLUT:ER, Representative.

Hartley . · ······.No. 199. ·1c. J. MoNROt, Pas~ Master.

Speranza ltaliana .No. 219 . . LUIGI VALSANGIACOMO, Master.

Truckee . .. . .. . . . No. zoo .. IL W . WILMOTH, Past Master and Rep'tive.

Downey ........ . No. 220 .. CHARL:ES R. CHURCH, Senior Warden.

Silveyville ...... . No. 201.. HARRY McFADY:EN, Master and Past M aster.

Inyo ........... . No. 221.. WII.LIAM L. SKINN:ER, Master.

fOaVII.I.t D . SToNt, Master;
l Past Masters.
Pentalpha .. . ... . No. 202 .. { W. P. MusAUS,

Granite ........ . . No. 222 .. R. L. STAFFORD, Past Master and Rep"tive.

lF. A. STltPH:ENSON,

s

:JARTHUR S. CRIT:ES, Master;

Bakersfield . ..... No. 224 .• GtoRG:E G. H UTCHINGS, S~nior Warden;
EDWARD B. HAYD:EN, Jumor Warden;

Salinas . . .. . ... . . No. 204 .. EDWIN M. HILLS, Master.

l F. W. ROBINSON, Past Master.

N ewville . .. .. .. . No. 205 .• A LUN T . MooRt, Master.

B roo kly n . . . . . . . . N o. 225 . . H:ERB:ERT P. BRIGGS, Master;
{J. C. FosT:ER, Past Master.
.

Anaheim .... . .. . No. 207 .. \VII.LIAM H. SPAK:E, Master.
Rio Vista-. .... . .. N o. ""o
.,,.,,, .. T. P . EM. IGH, Past Master and Representative.

King David's . .... N o. 209 . · PHILI.IP F . R:EADY, Master and Past Master..

I

I

San Mateo ... . ... No. 226 . . WAI.T:ER L. •JoHNSTON:E, Senior Warden.
Athens . . . ..... . . No. 228 .. B. B. Tt;TTU, Representative.

f'R,totRtCK L. CAUCH, Master;

GtORG:E H. P J\ABODY, Master;

· d h'P ...... . No . 210. ' FRANK T. E . EnMANS, Senior Warden;
F riens1

Solano ... . ... . . . No. 229 . . JOHN F. WATJ\RS, Senior Warden;

San Benito ....... No. 211 .. R. SHAW, Representative.

N orth B u tt e... .. . N o. 230 . . R1CHARD CA~!PB:ELI., Master;
.
C. A. MooRt, Past Master.

,{ A. S. HAI.I.IDAY, Past Master.

{ D. W. SMYTH:£, Past Master.

c. Al.VIN MULI.:ER, Master and Past Master.
So. San Fran' co .. No. 212. : M ADS:EN J . IvtRSON, Junior Warden;

{ C. E. DuNSH:Et, Past Master.

1

Covelo ... .... .. . No. 231.. A. DtNNIS, Representative.
2

554

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Janesville .... . . . No. 232 .. GRANVILU: PULLEN, Master.

Evergreen ...... . No . 259 .. HENRY D. FRENCH, Mast.er. . . . . . .. .

Calistoga ....... . No . 233 .. C. A. CARROLL, Past Master and Rep'tive.

Surprise Valley .. No. 235 .. ]AMES H. TRIMBU:, Junior W<trden.

King Solomon's .. No. 260 ..

Hill's Ferry ...... No. 236 .. LELAND H. PARKER, Senior Warden.

1W.

Colusa ..... .... . No. 240 .. ADOLPHUS AHLF, Senior Warden;
{ 0. ROBINSON, Past Master.
•

S anta ,4 na....... N o. 241 ..

ELI B. TRAGO, Master;

f0. M. ROBBINS, Past Master.

c.
w. T.·<;:uVE,
P. FILMER,

.

G. GUNZENDORFER,
C. L. ·P. MARAIS,
s. B. STEVENSON,
·F. B. Woon,

d 111
N 0 237 . .)JoHN GIACOMAZZI, Master and Past Master;
ua a ·Pe · · · · · · · •
T. LucAs, Past Master.

LoRA L. H1coK, Master;

I.

GEOI!Gll M. DAVIS, Master;
IRA s~ HOBBS, Senior Warden.; ..
RANDOLPii V. WHITTING, Junior Warden;

Hope . .. ........ . No. 234 .. RocER D. MATHEWS, Master and Past Master.

G

555

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

:P.a.s.t. Masters.
·

Tuscan ......... . No. 261 .. C. E. WEST, Past Master.
Hesperian ..... .. No. 264 .. MANUEL F. PIREs,.Master.
North East ....... No. 2fi6 .. EDWARD C. McCoNNAUGHY, ].Warden & P. M.

JOHN CROSSMAN, Senior Warden;
Alcatraz . . ...... ,No. 244 .. LEWIS T. CoRWIN, Junior Warden;
{ H. T. HUGGINS, Past Master.

WILLIAM H. H. GENTRY, Master;
GEORGE LEONARD, Senior Warden;
·
Durant ......... . No. 268 .. WILLIAM S. COLEMAN, Junior Warden;
{ R. GREIG,
W. H . WASTE,
S Past Master~.

Laurel ......... . No. 245 .. J. D. DANNER, Past Master an<l Rep'tive.

Olive Branch ..... No. 269 .. HARRIS 0. CHUTE, Senior Warden.

SALLEN P . NICHOLS., Master;
Pomona ......... N o. 246 ·· {i] . R GARTHSIDE, p ast M as t er.

Snow Mountain .. No. 271.. A. T. \VELTON, Representative.

Magnolia ....... . No. 242 .. J. W. SMITH, Past Master a,nd Representative.

, rJosl!PH L. BEALL, Master;
WILLIAM J. KITTRtLL, Senior Warden;
Fresno . . . . . . . . .. N o. 247 .., G. E. CHURCH,
Past Masters.
J1
LE. S . V ALENTINE,

J

l

•cg . {SIMEON T. BALLARD, Master and Past. Master;
,1 lturas . . . . . . . . . N o. 2...: · E C
p
·u
. . BONNER, ast master.
Landmark ...... . No. 253 .. :GEO. ROGERS, Representative.

·c.

l

Pasadena ....... . No. 272 .. En~ARD 0. NAY, Master.
4nchor ......... . No. 273 .. ELMltR E. ELLIOTT, Master.

'
N 27 {JOHN N. MILLER,
Master and Past Master;
Al!
rroyo . . . . . . . . . . o. 4 . . A B
p
M
.

.

. ROWN,

ast

aster.

.

Oakdale .. : ...... No. 275,JJoaN L. HENNEMUTH, Master;.
J. HASLOCHER, Past Master.

1

Selma .......... . No . 277 .. PARRIS AL.LEN, Master. .

WILSON
PONDER, Senior Warden;
Reading ....... . . No . 254 .. C. C. Busa,
p
M
{ C. C. CoRBIERE,
.
.
.
S ast asters.

l

Welcome ....... . No. 255 .. WILLIAM E . DINGLEY, Senior Warden.
Lodi ........... . No. 256 .. GEO. W. LEMOIN, Sen. Warden and P. Master.
Penrhy_n ........ . No. 258 .. J. P. M. PHILLIPS, Past Master.

ERNEST H. GREPPIN, Master;
HERBERT L. CORNISH, Senior Warden;
EDWARD B. SPENCER, Junior Warden;
Southern Calif'a .. No. 278. ·iJ. A. FosHAY,
}
w. P. JEFFRIES,
.. '
I
Past Masters .
H . S . 0. RME,
LD. R. WELLER,

r
I

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Hanford .. . .... . No. 279 . .JDtr.MEAS H. LATIMER, Senior Warden;
lJ. C. NSIGN, Past Master.
Madera ........ . No. 280 .. }JoHN B. HIGH, Master and Past M<1ster;
lGEORGE F. ELDRIDGE, Junior Warden.

callayomi ....... No. 282 . .JlJoHN
GEORGE A. McKINLEY, Master; . ,
C. KooPMAN, Junior Warden.
South West ..... . No. 283 .• WARREN B. VAUGHAN, Master and P . Master.

)557

ReedleJ' · ··· ..... No. 304 . . GEO. A. HAWKINS, Mastl?r and Past Master.
Azusa .......... . No. 305 . . Rou•E B. BrnwiiLL, Master.
Ashlar · · ··· . . . . . No. 306 • . THOMAS C. BROWNING, Senior Warden.
Santa M omca • . . . N 0 . 307 .

NILES R. :foLSOM, Master and Past Master.

Monrovia ·· · ··· .No. 308 . . RTCHARD B. CoWAN, Master and Past Master.
Delano · · ·······.No. 309 . . .ARCHIBALD SHEPPARD, Senior Warden.

San Miguel ..... . No. 285 .. LAWRENCE McCANDLESS, Master.

Sisson ····· ..... No. 310 .. J. L., PAINTiiR, Representative.

GEORGE \V. HAMILTON, Master;
P aso R obles. . . . .. No . 286 .. { M. H. BROOKS, Past Master.

Tehachapi ....... . No. 313 .. FRANKLIN C. CHORMICLE, S. Warden & P. M.
Temescal .... . .. . No. 314 . . }AMES L. DAVIS, Senior Warden.

Winncdumah ... . No. 287 .. L. WEILL, Representative.
Maxwell . ... . . . . N o. 288 .. H . S . CooK, Representative.
Elsinore . .. ..... . No . 289 . . }AMES STEWART, Master and P ast Master.
rwnLIAM A. SPALDING, Master;

East Gate . .. .... . No . 290 ..~M. H. FLINT,
D . MARTIN, .

l

Sanger .. . . . ... . . No. 316 . . PiiTER FALLER, Master.
Emmanuel . .... . No. 318 .. H . CoHN, Past Master.
Hollenbeck . . . .'.. No. 319 . JEnwhn A. TALBOT, Master;
· lL. V. YouNGWORTH, Past Master.

l p

S ast M asters.

Santa Paula ...... No. 291.. E . VIRDEN, Representative.
Los Gatos ........ No. 292 . . CHAltLltS H. BRIGGS, Master.
WILLIAM D. JoHNSToN, Master;
0 range Grove.... N o. 293 . . { C. L. BISHOP, Past Master.

Traver ... . ..... . No. 294 . . GARLAND W . CuRI.E, ·Master and Past Master.

South Gate .. . .... No . 320 . . JoHN W. KEMP, Master.
Alisa/ . . . ... .. . . . No . 321 . . SWILLIAM H. COPE, Master and Past Master;
· l E. E. HALL, Past Master.
Alhambra .. . .... No. 322. JWILLIAM M. NoRTHllUP, Master;
B. CARTWRIGHT, Past Master.

ra.

Whittier .... . .. . No. 323 .. FRANK C. OWENS, Master.
Corona · · ·· . .. ... N o. 324 .• LEM UEL L. TEST, Master.

Mount Jackson ... No. 295 .. DAVID B. PEUGH, Senior Warden.
Silver Gate ...... No. 296 .. FRED G. H YERS, Master.

L ong B each .. . ... No. 327 . .JWALTER C. SMITH, Master;
{CLARK H . SHAW, Junior Warden.

Dunsmuir .. .... . No. 297 . . GusTAVIi A. HuTAFP, Master.

R edondo ....... . No. 328 • • WILLIAM· F. SPRINKLE, Master.

PERCY S. REGNART, Master.
Liberty . . . ..•. ... No. 299 .. Louis M. KIMBERLIN, Senior Warden;
{ R ICHARD F. HART, Junior Warden.

Valle de France .. No. 329 . • LEON CURTiiT, Master and Past Master.

MARTIN F . Prt:RCE, Ma?ter;
R edian ds • . . . . . . . N o. 300 . . { J. A. STONE, Past M aster.

Ontario ...... . . . No. 301 .. CHARI,ES E . BLAIN, Junior Warden.

·11
N
{FREDiiRICK E. BEARSS, Master;
·
W arden.
P or tervi e . . . . . . . o. 303 · · N rLS BAKER, Senior

Kilauea ..... . .. . No. 330 .• C.H. FAIRER, Past· Master and Rep'tive,
Paci.fie Grove ...•. No. 331. .JDANIEL J. LEARY, Master;
{C. K. TUTTLE, Past .Master.
San Pedro ..... . . No. 332 . . ILA C. LAWYER, Master and Past Master. 1
Alta . ........... No. 333.JE. L. BRANDON, P a st Master and R ep'tive.
D. MURPHEY, Past ~faster. .
.

1J.

Covina . . . ...... . No. 334 .• T. F. GR1s wo;n, Past Master and Rep'tive.

?58

. PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

West Gate ...... . No. 335 .. HENRY .S. BROWN, Master.

fSAM UilL MU.RDOCK, Master;

.

{CORNELIUS CAREW, Master;
JOHN C. McEWEN, Senior Warden;
Fruitvale· .. ; . . ... No . 336 .. HARRY E . FRUIT'l',Jimior Warden; ·
w. H. FRASER,
.
'w. 'c. THORNALLEY JR., .. SPast Masters.

i

."

.

JOHN L. GABDS, Master;
·
337
.
.
JoB'N
H.
DoRMAN,
Se.
nior
Warden;
·
N
arqumez
.....
.
.
o.
C
ALVIN
~AUL, Ju~uor Warden;
·
. H. G. PowERS, Past Master.
· · ·

J
l

A.

Fullerton .. : .. : .. No. 339. ·. C. E . RtJDOOCK, Representative.

l FRED W . G. SnwooD, Junior' Warden;

l H . A. Kr.YCE, Past Master.

Manila ..... . . . .. No.'342.J!;,uTHER A. Rl;:NNER, Senior Warden;
.
.
l H. G. SQUIRES, Past Master.

A. KELLER, Master;

~tarr ~ing · · · · · ·JV_0 : 344.•: lD. S. HrRsH~ERG, Past M~st~~.'
••

-

•

J

Palo Alto ........ No. 346: . Mrr,TON B. Rot.Lri;Master. . .
.

.

.

{PALEN CHl!RCH, Master;

.

McKinley ...;... ·.No.
347. · W · H J
·
J · W d
.
. . M, . . OHNS:tDN, Ur110r . at en.
San Bernardino . . No. 348 .. J. FLAGG,
Past Master and Representative.
'
.· . . .... .. .
(JAMES C. Cou:, Master;
Sequoia ...... . . . No. 349 .. JJoHN ·R. M.AcGREGOR, Seniot·war<len·;
..
lGTLMAN W. B~CON,, Junior Warden;
.
W . ~WU.T, Past ·Master. · · · · · ·

.. ·. . .

. lJ.

Palestine ........ . /f o. 35l . . }H.ENRY D. McCABE, Master;

· · · ··

1E . E. Si:LPH, Past Master. · · · · ·

Sunset' ... ." . .. ; .• •No. 352. : SAMUEL E . BURK!;, Master.··
Pinole ..• ·. .-. .... . .. No. 353.-. J.C. P:ATJ;:RSON', Pasl Master-:rnd · R~p'tive.
" 'fLours ·E. BoivIN; ,¥aster; .. . . .
Hi:RMAN LocKs, Senior Warden;
• · · 1°\YIIJ.TAM A. S.HE~~AN,Junior. Warden;
_
. F._G. WATSON,_ Past Master.

Presidio ........ .No. 354.'.
: ,· ·
.

Hollywood

.·.

,:

. ~:
..

. : ..

.J

·No.;-355 SJ~HN P. D~Y, .:Mast.e r; · . .. · · · .. · · · · ·

:····· · . ··l G. F . STEVENSO.!'l,
Past Master.
.. . .
. . . ... . ..... .
-~

~

'

.

Golden State ..... No. 358. jGEo. W. TEDFORD, Master ;

1J. H. BEAN, Past Master.

·Lo;,•alton · · .. . ... No . 359 . .. R. A . HUYCK, Representative.

J
l s.

JOHN R. A ITKJ:N, Master;

San Frnncisco .. .'.No.· 360 . . Ji:ssE C. PERRY, Senior Warden;

·

H.

JOHNSON,

•

l H. D . LovELAi:rn, ·

}
. Past Masters.

Charity . ....... :No . 362 . . SnvANus R. WADE, Master ... ·
IJAMES F . HILL, Ma~ter; · · · · · · ·
'
} ... .. ·
S. PA.RSONS, .
Past Masters.
J. L. ROBINSON,
........ .
.

.

Santa Maria .... . No. 340. " L. J. MoRRIS, Past Master and Representative.
Oxnard ........ . No. "341. . RAY·D. SNivtLY, Master.

·

Mill Valley . . ... . No. 356 . . JTHOMAS T .. GREAVES, Senior Warden;

-San Jacinto: .'.". .. No. 338 .. ELLIS T. 'TANNn, Master and Past Master.

~Wru.IAM

559

Berkeley ... . .. . . No . 363 . . J. T . MORRISON, ·

·

lA.

Olivet .... . · : . ... No. 364 . . MA.SON N. CASE, Master';· .... ·
Willits · · · · ·· ·· · .No. 365 . . Gi:o. W . RrcHA.RD~ON, ·se~lor . Warden.
La; Pa/mas .. . . . No. 3t 6 .. posEPH . P . BERNHARD, Ma~ter ;•
·1J. C. POTTLE, Past Master.
South Pasadena .. lfo. 367 . . EvwARD E . BARpEN! Senior Warden.
Unity · · · · · . . ·· .. No. 368 . . W 1u1,\ M A : T 'HoMPSON, Master.
Ocean Park, . . . . . N o. 369 .. fJ,~HN B. DALES, Master; .
/_j,oH_N W. WOODWARD, Junior 'W arden
Amity •:t· , ..: .. · · .-No. 370 .. · E~\~~RD ST~PHENSON, Se~ior Warde~.
Oceanic ·· :" : :·· . No~ 371'. . C HAS. G. BocKus, Past Master and Rep'tive.
·

·

·

(DANI!:L N.- TowNE Master·

Gardena ·: .. .. ... N ~· 372. ·i Lowin-_H . WEsT,: Senior Warden;
l Aw~~Jo, F. f.{ANN, Junior Warden.
Veteran ·S ·p• ·"·No. 373 ... CLAHN~l'l J. NELLIS:· Seni~r W~rden.
. ,

' .

· {BURNSlDE CROMWELL, Mast'e r;

·

Jewel . . ... : .... . No. '374 . . ARTHUR B. SAN'BORN, S enior Warden ~
·
, M. E . LEVY, P a.st Master.
·
.

J CHARLES L: GoET'!'ING, Mas~er ·

Rii:limond ' .. . ... .. No. 375 .. · ROBERT 'JI. SMITH, Senior w~~den ; .

, l A~NOLD VI· LIECHTI, Junior Warden·

l L. A. LARSEN; Past M~ster. .

·

" .·. .

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Francis Drake .... No. 376 . . GEORGE F . McDONALD, Master and P . Master.
Artesia .. . ....... No. 377. . FRED H. PURDY, Senior Warden.
Mizpah ......... . No. 378 .. CHARLES E. SEBASTIAN, Master and P. Master.
.

{GILBERT E. WJlBB, Master and. Past Master;

Fillmore .... . .. . No. 379 . . WILLIS BURSON, Senior Warden.
Oceanside .. .... . No. 381.. JoHN MANNING, Sen. Warden and P . Master.
HARRY C. KNox, Master;

Highland Park ..... u. D .• { FRED E. VINC:ENT, Junior w.arden.
Orosi . .. : .......... U. D.. JoHN R. RUD, ~faster.
El Centro ......... · U · D · · DAVID IL CHAPLIN, Master.
Dinuba ............ U. D . • HENRY W. ENSIGN, Master.
Corregidore . . . . . . . . U . D . . RoBERT E. HERDMAN, Junior Warden.
D

Gr:o. W. HINKLE, Master and Past Master.

Coalinga . ... . ... . · ·U · · •
Parnassus . . . . . . . . . U . D .. VV'rLLIAM W. ALLEN, JR., Master.
Palos Verdes ...... . U . D., AUGUSTINE C. MALONE, Master.

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address
to the Grand Lodge, as follows :
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge, Free and
Accepted Masons of California:The supreme duty, it has been said, is the duty that l~es nearest'.
' th
oment in like manner is the moment that hes nearest.
e supreme m
'
'
· ·
h.
"
nt
"Wisely improve the present, it is t m e,
h
ht
t h e presen t mo me ·
are the words of perhaps America's greatest poet, but the . t ou~ ,
like myriad other thoughts which master minds have crystahzed m~o
words, belongs to man's universal treasure house ~f. knowledge-it
has been a theme of contemplation by countless milhons, who have
the earth. who have battled with its trials and troubl.is,
. d
1ive upon
'
t
d •t · a
and who have passed forever to silence and to dus ; an 1 1~
theme of contemplation to-day by countless others, who, . halting
amidst the jostling multitudes, ever pressing forward to gam some
promised goal, endeavor from the passing moment to garner . so~e
sheaves of usefulness and joy-those who have learned that life is
simply the sum total to each individual of the moments of th~ ever
enduring present-for the sun shines only upon the present, it has

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

:'561

set forever upon the past; it never rises upon the future, for what
we call future is forever resolved into an eternal present.
The
:fl.o"{ers, therefore, of happine!IB, anil the fruits of achievement, if
gathered at all, are gathered only in the present moment, the one
shining jewel from the exnaustless stores of eternity that is absoi.utely
ours. The best things of this world, it has been said, are the things
that lie nearest-lig·h t in our eyes, breath in our nostrils, violets at
our feet-Masonry is proud of its past, of its deeds, its deyotion to
humanity, to liberty and to truth; but Masonry does not exist upon
the past, it lives to-day, it exalts the present, it means Development;
it builds up, it does not tear down; it conserves, it. does not destroy;
it raises and supports, it does not condemn or consign; it brings its
candidate from darkness to light, it says to him: "let not him that
seeketh cease from his search until he find.'' Masonry is as a seed
which grows, not as a diamond cut and :fixed, it does not profess
infallibility, nor even to be a system or perfected truth, it is a search
for truth; it is tolerant, it sees a soul of goodness in things evil,
a soul of truth in things erroneous, it holds that if perfected truth
were offered. in one hand and the search for truth in the other, it
would be the higher course to choose the· search for truth; it holds
of itself, as of nature, that there is no life without growth, and that
as the plant must either grow or die, so must Masonry, in its principles and teachings and purposes, either broaden and deepen, or
.p erish. The to-day of Masonry is the greatest of all the days which
have gone before, the greatest in the scope of its beneficences, richest
in the quality of its brotherhood, broadest in its ever widening circle
of human consideration and kindness, and more vital in its potentiality
and growth.
During the past year no ·Lodges have surrennered their charters,
and none have lost their' identity through consolidation. Dispensations have been issued to form eight new Lodges, and the net gain
in membership within the jurisdiction has been 2357, the greatest
within the State since the formation of the Grand Lodge, fifty-seven
-y ears ago, and exceeded only once by 33 ~hen the 11ewly formed
Lodges in the Orient added a considerable number to the net' gain
of the whole jurisdiction.
NECROLOGY.
In the world nothing dies, everything livell, bttt changes, and in
those changes let us read hope, not sadness; light, not darkness, for
hope is the keystone of human life-all pow~rs, even love and fait.P,
rest finally upon hope; it iii that which tells us that love and friendship
are immortal, and that the threads which are lost from our grasp
in the shadows of the receding world are found again in the beauty

562

563.-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

and bTightness of a distant shore; it is the rainbow shining during
the stress and storms of life to assure us that beyond the clouds and
darkness light gleams, radiant and unbroken.
Eugene Sue's weird tale of the Wandering Jew vividly' portrays
the unspeakable anguish of a .human soul sent'enced to the awful
doom of never being permitted to undergo the change called death,
and re'mincls us that while it is blessed to live, it is also, in the fullness
of time, natural and in a very high sense blessed to die; and no epitaph, that we have ever read, seems to us so fitting and full of hope
and gladness as that proposed by Robert' Louis Stevenson for himself
when he says:
"This be the verse you 'grave for me;
Here he lies where he longed to be;
Home is the sailor, home from the sea,
And the hunter home from the hill.''

obedience to the inscrutable will of God; in memory we see his form
and figure, we hear his voice, we liste~ to his sententious speech1
incisive, convincing, clear--we move. our hand .across our brow,
almost hoping that we shall wake and find his passing was a dream~
but no, he walkr. on earth no more, his spirit is with God._

Some of Our Honored Dead,
In 1857 Samuel Prager was Seni6r Deacon of Los · Angeles Lodge,
No. 42, and for fifty years thereafter was an active and conspicuous
member of the Grand Lodge of California. He was with us,. as we
all remember, one year ago, rarely missing an Annual Communication
of the Grand Body,: and, having held various appoi:i'ited offices therein
almost continuously for probably more than thirty years; he was
also, for many years, the highly efficient president of the Los Angeles
Masonic Board of Relief, and at all times and in all place11. was
conscientious· and capable and a Mason tried and true.
Brother Prager is missed to-day from his accustomed haunts.
The standard of the Grand Lodge, which it was his office to bear, i1
now entrusted to other hands, a~d the places which have known
him here on earth will know him no more forever. The Grand Lodge
was called in special communication for the purpose of conducting
the funeral, R.'. W.''. Oscar Lawlor, Junior Grand Warden, presiding,
and all that remains to us now of Brother Prager is the memory of
bis kind an'd amiable personality, his genial presence, his soft ' and
sunny disposition; his genuine manhood and worth, his love for family and friends, and his lifelong loyalty and 'devotion to Masonry.
It was our privilege and pleasure one year ago to reappoint
to the chairmanship of the important Committee on Grievances in the
·Grand Lodge, on which committee he had served as chairman with
marked ability for a number of years, Brother John A. Hosmer, of
King Solomon's Lbdge, No. 260, and it is difficult now to realize that
Brother Hosmer can never perform the duties of that-· office again;
he has gone from us in the :flower of his strength and usefulness in

Brothe'r Hosmer , was for many ye~rs active in Masonry; filling
many offices of honor and responsibility , an<} always with COJlSpicuous fitness. In 1901 he served the Grand Lodge as Grand Orator
leaving upon the minds of those who were privileged to hear him ~
deep impress of his research, his learning and his ability.
As
a citizen he was exemplary, and throughout his life' did well whatever duty he was called upon to perform. As Judge of the Superior
Court of the City and County of San Francisco, whieh position he
occupied when his summons came, he manifested those qualities
which make ·.a jurist great; he .p ossessed the judicial temperament,
and the inherent sense of justice; he was scholarly and .thoughtful
and in his resea~ches thorough and exhll-ustive; hi13 mind was logical:
his grasp ~omprehensive, and his powers of discrimination and ana.l y-,
·si!I exceedingly .high, and as the foundation of it all, his character
for integrity and honor was absollltely without spot" or blemish.
Let us yield to him that greatest praise which was accorded to
the noblest Roman, and say of J:iim, as w~s said of Brut~s, ''that
nature could stand up and say to all the world, this was ,. man."
We venture the opinion that no jurisdiction ~n the ~orld possesses
so capable a body of men stationed in the various Masonic districts
acting as· deputies for the Gl'~nd ' Master and Grand Lectii.rer;· and
styled Inspectors, charged with the impo~tant duties of maintainfog
the high standards of Masonic excellence demanded here, as does
the Grand Jurisdiction of California, and among these ab1e and
zealou~ men, we miss to-day the familiar figure of one who, in point
of service, W!J.S the oldest Inspector in the State, and admitedly one.
of the best--,Brother. Eli · T. Blackmer ·of San Diego. Brother Black'
mer, it may almost . be said, devoted his life to Masonry:. he was a
student of it13 mys~eries, and;.the esoteri.c side of Maso.nry appealed
strongly to his nature.
His personality was gentle and refined;
his chaste features, and silvered brow suggesting. the .eth!'lria~ spirit- '
within. In "°passing on," as Brother Blackmer wouid . s~y, we know
that he has undergone a change from which he did not shrink b'iit
which lie welcomed ·gladly' as the breaking of the eternal' d11-~n. "
'
In our sister jurisdictions within the States, the silllnt messenger
has touched· with his mysterious wand many of those e;D.inent 'in the
craft, and to their honorell names we .pay the tribute
our resp~~'(- 1
and wreath their memories with' tlie chaplet of our est-e.eDi.." ·

of

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Among those who have, during the past year, crossed the great
divide, we mention:
Edmund Metcalf, Grand Tyler for nearly a quarter of a century,
of the Grand Lodge of Arkansas.
George Keith L\:imball, Past Grand Master of Masons in .Colorado.
Miles W. Grav11s, Grand Treasurer from 1896 to December 13th
1906, the date of his death, of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut.
Norville Robertson Carter, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Florida.
William A. Davis, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Georgia.
Joseph Harrison Collins Dill, Past Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of Illinois.
Charles E. Stevens, Most Worshipful Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Michigan.
Erastus E. Stone, Senior Grand Warden of the Grand Lodge of
Michigan.
Henry Chamberlain, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Michigan.
Charles Fitz Ray Bellows, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of Michigan.
Charles Griswold, Past Grand Master of . the Grand Lodge of
Minnesota.
ThoI!laS Montgomery, Right Worshipful Grand Secretary of the
Grand Lodge of Minnesota. .
Phineas Messinger Savery, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Mississippi.
Cornelius ·Hedges, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary of
the Grand Lodge of Montana, at the time of his death, ·the oldest
Grand --Secretary in years of service in the United States, possibly
in the world.
George W. Lininger, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of Nebraska.
Frank Hurd Robinson, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
New York.
Charles Alexander Woodward, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Ohio.
Edward Livingston Freeman, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Rhod.e Island.
William S. Smith, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of
Tennessee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

565

William Henry Upton, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge·
of the State of Washington.
George Davis, Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Vir·
ginia.
MISCELLANEOUS.
In the Grand Secretary's report will be found full and complete statements covering the matters of Lodges constit~ted, dispensations granted for new Lodges,. special communications of the Grand
Lodge for the purposeg of laying corner stones, dedicating Masonic
halls, etc.; special dispensations issued, lists of representatives received and appointed and amendments to By-Laws; and the only
reference to thesP subjects needed from the Grand Master is to the
matter of dispensation granted to form Dinuba Lodge: At the Annual
Communication of 1906 an amendment of the Constitution was adopted
vesting in the Grand Master the discretion ·of issuing dispensation
to form a new Lc;>dge, if in his judgment it appeared proper to do so,
notwithstanding the refusal of the nearest existing old Lodge to
give consent thereto. The occasion which guve rise to the discussion which resulted in the adoption of the amendment above referred
to, was the refusal of Reedley Lodge, No. 304, to yield its permission to the formation of the proposed Lodge at Dinuba; and
after the adjournment of the Annual Communication one year ago,
the brethren at Dinuba began anew the proceedings to form the desired new Lodge, and in due time application was again made by
them to Reedley Lodge for its acquiescence and consent, which
was again denied, and appeal was made by the brethren at Dinuba
to the Grand Master, who, accompanied by the Grand Lecturer, proceeded, early in February, to the scene of the disagreement, and
made an exhaustive and comprehensive investigation of the situation, including, within the scope of his inquiries, not only the
brethren at Reedley and Dinuba, but those also in such surrounding
towns as Visalia and Fresno, and as a result of that investigation
the Grancl Master was persuaded that the best interests of Masonry
would be subserved by granting the dispensation prayed for, which,
accordingly, was done. In our opinion the brethren at Reedley, in
their refusal, were actuated only by worthy motives, being apprehensive, as tl1ey no doubt were, that the formation of the new Lodge
would most seriously impair the strength and usefulness of the old, but
in our judgment they were in error, and the activity shown by both
Lodgl!s, as disclosed in their reports to the Grand Secretary, since the •
dispensation was granted, and the good will and amity which we arJ
assured exist between them, .afford convincing evidence of .the soundness of our views.

566

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

GENERAL MASONIC RELIEF FUND.

?fficer~ of the Relief Bureau and others, who have been engaged
m · rehef work, that some of those most deserving of relief have,
from motives of delicacy and a desire to avoid possible humiliation
refrained from asking for assistance.
'

At the Annual Communication of 1906, the general direction
of relief necessitated by the Great Calamity of April, 1906, was, by
virtub of his office, and resolution of the Grand Lodge, continued in
the hands of the Grand Master, and in rendering final report thereon,
we would state that the organization, ·with its several branches, specially established after the catastrophe for handling the details of
the work, was carried forward with one or two changes in the
official staff, and a high order of efficiency distinguished the administration of both the San Francisco and Oakland Boards. Brothers
W. Frank Pierce, President of the Board in this city, and Rodolph
W. Meek, President of the Board in Oakland, are especially de~rrv­
ing of the unqualified praise .and thanks of the fraternity for t-Lir
unselfish devotion to the cause of ·the needy and distressed, serving
without one farthing of compensation, and surrendering almost their
entire time for a whole year to the exacting duties of thei1' positions,
performing arduous toil, actuated only by the love of humanity and
Masonry, and with no thought of reward except the approval of
conscience and the generous approbation of their brethren..
Final balance sheets of the San Francisco and Oakland boards,
also general balance sheet of the Grand Master, are presented herewith, together with certificates of expert accountants as to the accuracy of the several statements; the final report of the San Jose
Board is also given.
Early in June the following communication, which is self explanatory, was audressed to all the Masters and Secretaries of the Lodges
of San Francisco, and a similar communication to other brethren,
conversant with the situation here and at Santa Rosa and at San
Jose; the response to the letter, sometimes V!Jrbal, more frequently
in writing, was very general and painstaking, and on the basis
of the information afforded thereby, some of the most valuable work
of relief was rendered. The following is a copy of the communication referred to:
June 6, 1907.
"Worshipful Sir and ,B rother:
''The Special Masonic Reliaf Bureau organized in this city immediately after the catastrophe of one year ago to take charge of
Masonic Relief incident to the conflagration, has closed its affairs
and has been dissolved, and the few ordinary cases remaining will
be attended to by the regular Masonic Board of Relief of this city.
''As a result of observation and experience during the past year,
we are constrained to believe, and in this view are supported by the

567

.
"You, as Master of your Lodge, may know of certain such
mstances among your members, and I would ask you to kindly take
t~e roster ~f your Lodge, and carefully scan its membership and
give me a list of names of such members as in your judgment may
be worthy of true Masonic charity. We would not wish any of
them to know the source of our information, and whatever is done
will be done quietly and without publicity, and in such a manner a~
to avoid humiliation to the recipient . In this list, the widows of
Masons may be included, provided their widowhood, or present distress has some reasonable connection with the disaster of one year
ago. We would ask you to make the list in the order of merit be·
ginning with the most deserving and arranging them in order t; the
close, and the two conditions to be observed in preparing the list are
as follows:
"First-The distress must have been occasioned in some manner
eithet directly or indirectly by the earthquake or
of April 1906
and
'
'

fire

''Second-There must be distres.s at present existing.

l

"Even though a member may have been a severe loser in the
disaster of one year ago, still if he has been able to gather himself
together and is now faidy prosperous, he will not come within the
scope of our intention. Give me the name and correct address and
full particulars as to each case that you may mention and if the
relief should not be given directly in any case, but s~ould be entrusted to some one of judgment for his or .her benefit so state and
give the name of the person to whom the administratio~ of the benefit should be entrusted.
"It is not intended that this information shall be spread broad·
cast, as we wish to avoid the condition that this would give rise to
for, as you know, it is not unfrequently the case that the mos;
~eserving are those who say the least about their troubles, and this
is the class that we desire now to reach.
" This l etter is, therefore, in tended to be strictly confidential
although I will say to you that I am writing a similar letter to th~
Secretary of your Lodge, and, while there is no objection to your
conferring with him in the preparation of the list still I would rather•
.
i"f possible,
have the information which I have ' asked for, given to'
me separately by yourself and your Secretary, whereby if the lists

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

correspond the judgment of the one would be independently sup·
ported by the judgment of the other.
.
''Kindly give me the information as pro~ptly as possible, ~s
we desire to cover the entire field before makmg a start upon th1e
work as what we are able to do in each case will depend, as you
will ;eadily understand, upon the relation between what we are called
upon to do and the resources at our command.
''Au dress your letter to my office, 601 Monadno~k Bldg., and
mark the communication on the envelope "Personal and Confidential.''
"Awaiting your early reply, I remain,
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
EDWARD H. HART,
''Grand Master of Masons of Cal.''
The following is a copy of the final trial balance rendered by the
San Francisco Board, and certificate of expert accountant:.
.
Trial Balance May 11th, 1907.
Citizens' National Bank ...... ......... ... $ 36,409 88 $
E. H. Hart,
4,823 74
75;388 58
Contributions ....................... · · . · · ·
100,000 00
Grand Master ................. · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
9,399 05
Transportation ........... · · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
2,147 35
Incidental Expense ............ . · · · · · · · · · · ·
145 45
Stationery ................. · .. · · · . · · · · · · · ·
6,99110
Clerical .................................. .
230 98
Furniture and Fixtures ......... · .. ·. · · · · · · ·
4,706 71
General Expense ............... · . · · · · · · · · · ·
1,387 50
Drayage •.....•.•... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
43,195 78
Relief .......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
93640
Mission District
100 00
Loans ........ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •
740 05
Hospital ...•.........•........ · · · · • · · · · · · ·
642 64
Burials ....... ........ · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · ·
63,525 45
Supplies ................ ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
6 50
Cash Balance ...•.............. • · ... · · · . · · ·
$175,388 58 $175,388 58

G. M............................

···························

SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., Au~st 26th, 1907.
W. Frank Pieree, Esq., t>resident General
Masonic Relief Board, San Francisco, Cal.Dear Sir: As per your request, I have made a careful examin~­
tion of the records kept by the Secretary of the General Ma.some

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

569

Relief Board from October 22d, 1906, to May 11th, 1907, both dates
inclusive.
I have found every disbursement entry covered by a proper
voucher,
The cheeks drawn against the ban.k account have likewise been
t>xamined and verified and cash receipts from various sources as
refunds, etc., have been properly accounted for and deposited in bank
to become a part of the General Fund.
I am pleased, therefore,. to report that the Relief Funds for the
foregoing period have been properly accounted for and that the balance of cash on May 11th, 1907, as shqwn by the Secretary's Report
as being on deposit, amounting to Thirty-six Thousand Four Hundred
and Nine a11.d 88/100 Dollars ($36,409.88) is correct.
Respectfully,
J.R.RUCKSTELL, C.P.A.

The following is the final trial balance of the Oakland Board,
with statement and certificate of expert accountant:
OAKLAND, CAL., June 29, 1907.
Dr. R. W. Meek, President
Masonic Relief Bureau, Oakland, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: Complying with your instructions, I have
gone over the cash book since April 20th, 1906, to date. I find that
all of the items of disbursement have been .entered correctly from
the checks that have been issued for the several amounts.
The footings of the ~arious pages are ~orrect.
The total amount of cash received from April 20th, 1906i to
date, is .....................•..•...........•........... $22,469 15
Amount of disbursements April 20, 1906, to date ......... 13,180 39
Leaving a balance at this date of .................... $9,288 76
all of which is on deposit, subject to check, in the Union National
Bank, Oakland.
Commencing ~ith the report published o.n October 1st last, which
shows a balance on hand of $11,046.63, I find tJie following:
$11,046 .63
Amount received October 1 to date.......................
388 07
$11,434 70
3

570

.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Disbursement unaccounted for in previous report ... : ...........................•..... $
30
Disbursements, October 1 to date .............. 2145 64
2,145 94
Balance on hand this date ....................... .; ...... . $9,288 76
The bank statement, of this date, shows a
balance of ...... • ... • .................... $9313 76°
But there is unreturned check (outstanding) No.
324 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
25 00

571

October

16, 1906 ..... ...... .......... $

20 0(,

November
November

2, 1906.....................

59 00

2, 1906 .................... .
November 30, 1906 . ... ...... .......••..

15 70

December
December

20, 1906 . •. .....••....•. .. •..

100 00

24, 1906 .•......•.........••.

140 00

December
January

24, 1906 ...•.....•.....•..•..
15, 1907 ....•••. ••·.......... .

139 52
25 00

15 00

January

16, 1907 .................... .

lQO 00

$ 9,288 76

Jsnuary

23, 1907 .... .....•...........

The Treasurer has on file, properly authorized vouchers for all
checks drawn by him.

February

15 50
250 00

February

2, 1907 •..............•••....
25, 1907 .. . •.. : ..... ...... .. .

The Treasurer's statement of receipts and disbursements as
shown is correct.

February
April

27, 1907 ................• : .. .
5, 1907 .........•..•..•...•.

I have minutely examined (aR vou .llTe aware) all the various
items, and am pleased to certify that tht:y have been carefully and
correctly accounted for by the Treasurer, Bro. Geo. Roeth.

April

5, 1907 .. .... .. .......•.. ...

100 00

April

15, 1907 .. . ..... .. .•.........

135 00

Fraternally yours,
J. C. FOSTER, Accountant.
The following is the final statement of the special Relief Committee of San Jose:
SAN, JOSE, CAL., June 10, 1907.
To Most Worshipful Edward H. Hart,
Grand Master of Masons of CaliforniaM. ·. W. ·. Sir and Brother: In presenting the final report of the
special relief work involved by the disaster of April, 1906, I wish
to renew the thanks of those assisted as well as that of all members
of the Craft in this District to those of other jurisdictions, who rendered such timely and effective aid. Our appreciation, too, is extended to you, Most Worshipful Grand. Master, for your watchful
care and co-operation.
We can indeed feel gratified that so far as we can learn every
case involving our care has been relieved.
Since the previous report the following amounts have been di1bursed:
•

100 00
65 00
100 00

April

19, 1907 ... • .... . ....•.•....•

100 00

April

26, 1907 .................... .

2 00

April
May

26, 1907 ......•. ... .•.••....•
23, 1907 ..................•..

156 00
25 00

June

10, 1907 •...............•....

50 00

Total. ..................•..•...... $1712 87
Leaving a balance on hand of $1,709 64, which amount I am
forwarding to you by draft enclosed herewith.
In this connection I also append to this repOTt a list of several
names of those affected by the disaster with the circumstances surrounding each case, so that should sufficient amount be found to be
on hand at fin:ll disposal of funds, these cases may receive ;your
consideration.
Respectfully submitted,
DELOS W. SMYTHE,
Chairman Special Committee.

...

572

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Following is the general financial statement of the Grand Master,
with certificate and report of accountant:
STATEMENT OF RELIEF FUNDS.
In Hands of Grand Master.
Receipts.
1906.
Oct. 17-Received from M . H. Flint, P. G. M .... ... .... $. 51,065 92
0

Oct.

22-Received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer,
Michigan, Manistee ....... .... .. .. ... .. ... ·

34 00

Nov.

8-Received f;om Charles E. Rosenbaum, Grand
Treasurer of Arkansas, Little Rock, balance of
contributions from ' the Grand and Subordinate Lodges of Arkansas ........... ..... ; .

345 45

Nov. 19~Received from Wm. Wente, Grand Treasurer of
Michigan, Manistee ........ .. ....... , ..... .

15 00

Nov. 19-Received from Frederic Speed, Grand Secretary
of Mississippi, Vicksburg, balance of contri·
butions ........... .. ... .. ................. .
Nov. 27-Receiveu from Wm. ·Wente,· Grand Treasurer of
Michigan, Manistee, balance .............. .

1,05216
3 75

Dec.

6-Received from H. E. Flavelle, Deputy Grand Sec·
retary of Ireiand, final contribution to Relief
Fund ................................. · ·· · ·
1907.
May 7-Heceived refund from the General Masonic Relief
Bureau of San Francisco, balance on deposit
with Crocker National Bank, of San Francisco

4,823 74

June 13-Refund from San Jose Board of Relief ........ .

1,709 64

July,

1,119 12

3-Received from Oakland Masonic Relief Bureau,
refund, etc. . ..... .... ..................... .

9,288 76

Aug. 28--Refund, etc., from the San Francisco Relief
Bureau ............... . ......... ........ .. .

36,409 88

Sept.

I - Interest received from bank on deposits to Sept. 1

720 66

Total Receipts forward ............. .. .............. $106,588 08

573

Disbursements.
Total Rec,eipts forward .....................•....... $106,588 08
October 26, 1906, to Septe,mber 6, 1907Reimbursements to the regular Masonic Board
of Relief of San Francisco for advances
to tmfferers from the calamity of April, 1906,
disbursed after the closing o:f the Special
Relief Bureau, organized i=ediately after
the catastrophe, as per vouchers ............ $ 4,321 63
Donation to the regular Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco, to continue the work
of relief, not yet fully collll!leted. . . . . . . • . . .
2,000 00
Donation to the Oakland Masonic Relief Board
for similar purpose ........... : . . . . . . . . . . .
1,000 00
Donation to the San Jose Board for similar
purpose .•....•••..... • ......... • ....•..•
50000
Donation to Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57 ....... . 12,560 00
Donation to Hartley Lodge, No. 199, at Lakeport ..............................•......
600 00
Exchange ..... . ........... ·. . .. ... ........•
12 80
Relief to Masons, the widows and orphans of
Masons, sufferers in the calamity of April,
1906, at San Francisco, Oakland, Santa Rosa,
San Jose, Sacramento, Petaluma, Napa and
elsewhere, payments made direct by Grand
Master, and also through the Masters, Secretaries and Wardens of San Francisco Lodges,
Inspector D. W. Smythe of San Jose, Past
Master C. D. Barnett of Santa Rosa, Past
Master F. K . Lippitt.of Petaluma, W. Frank
Pierce, Grand Lecturer Edwards, Past Grand
Masters Atkinson, H enuerson and others,
as per vouchers ......................... . 23,515 00
Total disbursements to September 6th ....... $ 44,509 43
SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 6, 1907.
Mr. Edward H. Hart, Grand Master
of Masons of CalifomiaDear Sir: Complying with your request, I
would say that I have checked all items of
disbursements from the Relief Funds in your
hands as shown by vouchel's. I have made
careful footings, and hereby certify that the
total of disbursements shown by vouchers is...
$ 44,509 43
J. C. FOSTER, Accountant.
Balance on hand September 6, 1907 ... . ........... . ..... .. $62,078 65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
BERKELEY, CAL., Sept. 12, 1907.

Mr. Edward H. Hart, Grand Master
of Masons of CaliforniaDear Sir: In compliance with your request, I have made ex·
amination of the receipts and disbursements of the General Maso11ic
Relief Fund and find the same to be correct as per the statements,
reports, vouchers, and account! on file ..
I find the following totals:
Receipts.
.
Per M. H. Flint, P. G. M .....•... . ..........•.........•. $220,323 90
Per E. H. Hart, G. M .... . ..... . . . ...... . .. . · ...... · . · · ·
~,569 48
Per Geo. Johnson, G. S ... , .... . .. :............... . . .. ..
6,003 20
Total .. . ...... . ............................. . ..... $228,896 58
R efunds per various Relief Boards .......... . .... : : . . . . . 52,232 02
Interest from Bank, on deposits . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
720 66
$281,849 26
Disbursements.
As per vouchers and reports . ....
$219,770 61
Balance in bank ............... $ 60,888 65
Coin on hand . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .
1,190 00
62,078 65

$281,84926

In compliance with your request that I make a statement show·
ing what per cent of this balance, which is now on hand, might be
returned to the donors, I make the following report :
Gross.
Misc . Items.
Net.
20 %
$226,327 10 $
189 00 $226,138 10 $ 45,227 63- M. H. Flint, P.G.M.
74,670 48
5,978 40
68,692 08
13,738 41-8. F . Bd. of R elief.
7,481 08
2,894 58
4,586 50
917 30-0akland Bd. Relief.
2,569 48 . . . . . . . . . .
2,569 48
513 89-E. H. Hart, G. M.
$311,048 14 $

9,061 98 $301,98.6 16 $ 60,397 23

There was received as per the above report $311,048.14; but of
this amount $9,061.98 came from donors to whom it would be im·
possible to return anything, not knowing their addresses-and in
this amount are also a great many small items from private parties,
as well as some items from subscriptions, etc. Deducting this latter
amount, we have a balance of $301,986.16, upon which, if 20 per cent
were returned to the donors, it would amount to $60,397.23.
There is now a balance on hand of $62,078.65, and if $60,397.23
be returned to the donors, it will leave a balance of $1,681.42 re·

575

maining on hand.
Tb.ere are several unsettled cases of relief on
hand, and no doubt a few more cases ·will arise; but With the balance of $1,681.42, together with the interest which will no doubt be
allowed by the bank.for at least part of t his month, I think there will
be sufficient to cover all such claims.
I herewith hand you an itemized statement showing the amount
which might be returned to the various donors. The items amounting to $9,036.98, upon which refund has not been comput ed, also
show on the statement and were cut out with your approval.
Very respectfully,
J. C. FOSTER, Accountant.
An examination of . the above statement discloees the fact that
on .September 6, we had on hand an unexpended balance of $62,078.65,
and the work having been practically completed; the serious question
was presented as to the proper disposition of this balance on hand.
The Grand Maater, desiring to act in harmony with the wishes and
desires of the Masons of California, on September 12 called a conference of elective Grand Officers, such as could be brought together
and other representative men of the fraternity, and after a com'.
prehensive discussion it was decided with absolute unanimity that
if approximate accuracy could be arrived at, the only just and prape;
course to pursue would be 'the pro rata return to the donors of the
excess contributed over the amount needed.
The Grand Master
had already, through the exhaustive analysis of an expert accountant, determined that this could be done, which action accordingly
was forthwith taken, and the sum of $60,397.23 ·returned to generous
donors. Each remittance was accompanied by a letter expressive of
the. thanks and appreciation of the Fraternity of California copy
of which is as follows:
'
SAN FRANCISCO, September 12, 1907.
Dear SirWben the great calamity of Apr.il, 1906, befell San Francisco
and vicinity, the Masons from all over the world, with spontaneous
generosity, poured forth upon the stricken district their offerings of
love and sympathy, and the financial aid thus r endered made it
possible to prevent the untold suffering which must othei:wise have
ensued.
.
:he a_dministration of the trust imposed upon the chosen officer15
rn disbursmg the funds thus freely given, has been, we believe, careful and judicious, and yet no worthy case, so far as we know, has
been overlooked; and now, as we are about closing the wor'\t. of

..

576

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

relief, we find a considerable balance of the fund which was contributed, unexpended.
·
We do not feel justified in applying any portion of the money
to any purpose other than that for which it was intended: viz., the
relief of suffering growing out of the great ·disaster, and it is the
judgment of the Fraternity in California that the unused balance
should be returned pro rata to the donors.
We therefore are able to return to you $ ........ ·i check for
which we enclose herewith, and• with a renewal of our thanks for
the unstinted generosity of our brethren everywhere, we remain,
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master of Masons of California.
And below is given a full and complete list, with all details· of
amounts returned:
ALABAMA.
No . Check.

1001
1002
1003
1004
1005
1006
1007
1008
1009
1010
1011
1012
1013
1014
1015
1016
1017
1018
1019
1020
1021
1022

To Whom Payable.

Grand Lodge ..................•..•..•........... $
Subordinate Lodges of State ........... : ......... .
ARIZONA.
Grand Lodge .... . .............................. .
Tucson Lodge, No. 4, Tucson .................... .
Chalcedony Lodge, No. 6, Holbrook .............. .
King Solomon Lodge, No. 5, Tombstone ........... .
Yuma Lodge, No. 17, Yuma ................... ..
Corinthian Lodge, No. 18, Morenci .• .............. .
Tempe Lodge, No. 15, Tempe .................... .
Safford Lodge, No. 16, Safford .................. .
Coronado Lodge, No. 8, Clifton .................. .
Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 19, Douglas .......... .
Winslow Lodge, No. 13, Winslow ................ .
Wilcox Lodge, No. 10, Wilcox .................... .
Nogales Lodge, No. 11, Nogales ................. .
White Mountain Lodge, No. 3, Globe ............. .
Temple Chapter, No. 8, R. A. M., Winslow ..... . .
Perfect Ashlar Lodge, No. 12 ................. .
Landmark Chapter, No. 6 ....................... .
Bisbee Commandery, No. 4 ...................... ..
Flagstaff Lodge, No. 7, Flagstaff ............. ·..
Aztlan Lodge, No. 1, Prescott ................... ..
Carried Forward

Amount .

120 00
548 00
20 00
10 00
4 00
50 00
10 00
40 00
20 00
10 00
50 00
10 00
10 00
5 00
15 00
5 00
5 00
80 00
70 00
50 00
20 00
20 00
$1,172 00

Brought Forward

577
,l,l'i2 00

1024

ARKANSAS.
lirand Lodge ..................•..•.••...........
Blue Lodges .................................... .

189 59
21 00

1025
1026
1027
1028
1029
1030
1031
1032
1033
1034
1035
1036
1037
1038
1039

CALIFORNIA.
Buena Park Lodge, No. 357, Buena Park ......•....
Chico Lodge, No. 111, Chico ................... ..
Humboldt Lodge, No. 79, Eur41ka . , .•.............
Hornitos Lodge, No. 98, Hornitos ...•..•..........
Oxnard Lodge, No. 341, Oxnard ................. .
Pomona Lodge, No. 246, Pomona ................ .
Pomona Chapter, No. 76, R. A. M ., Pomona .....•
Santa- Barbara Lodge, No. 192, Santa Barbara ...
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, San Diego .............•
Santa Ana Lodge, No. 241. ...................... .
Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307, Santa Monica ...... .
Sanger Lodge, No. · 316, Sanger ................... .
Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269, Tulare •..............
Surprise Valley Lodge, No. 235, Cedarville ......... ·
Unity Lodge, No. 368, Glendale ................. .

5 00
20 00
20 00
4 00
30 00
20 00
5 00
40 00
30 00
20 00
20 00
13 00
30 00
20 00
10 00

COLORADO.
1040 Grand Lodge .................................... .
1041 Subordinate Lodges ............................. .
1042 Union Lodge, No. 7, Denver •.... , ................ .
1043 Leadville Lodge, No. - , Leadville ................ .
1044 Cripple Creek Lodge, No. 110 .............. .'.....•
1045 Mt. Pisgah Lodge, No. 96, Cripple Creek .......... .
1046 Trinidad Lodge, No. 89 ......................... .

100 00
650 94
20 00
20 00
10 00
10 00
20 00

iui1.:1

CONNECTICUT.
1047

Masons of State

788 28

1048

. DELAWARE.
Lodges of State ...•.•...•........••............ .

367 37

FLORIDA.
1049 Grand Lo·dge , ..• . ........ . .•...•.••...•.........
1050 Subordinate Lodges ................•.......•.....
1051 Escambia Lodge, ·No. 15, Pensacola ............... .

100 00
494 35
5 00

GEORGIA.
Maso'!ls of State ..... , .......................... .
Wm. Landrum Lodge, No.~' Savannah .......... .

291¥
10 00

1052
1053

Carried. ~orw~rd

~

~

. •.. ........ ·............... . $4,556 67
~

~

578

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 9F CALIFORNIA.

Brought Forward

..

.

$4,556 67

HAWAII.
1054 Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, Honolulu ............•....
1055 Pacific Lodge, No. 822, Honolulu ................. .
1956 Kilauea Lodge, No. 330, Hilo ... .................. .

900 00
400 00
100 00

1057
1058
1059
1060
1061
1062
1063
1064
1065

IDAHO.
Blue Lodges ......... ... , ....................... .
Bethany Lodge, No. 21, Shoshone ..•..............
King Solomon Lodge, No. 27, Montpelier ........ .
Boise Lodge, No. 2, Boise ..... .. ................. ·
Nez Perces Lodge, No. 10, Lewiston .............. .
B enevolent Lodge, No. 38, St. Anthony ...•.......
Twin Falls Lodge, U. D., Twin Falls ............. .
Wardner Lodge, No. 34, Wardner ............... .
Cyrus Chapter, No. 2, R, A. M., Silver City ......•

3·0 00
5 00
20 00
50 00
50 00
32 20
23 00
15 00
10 00

1066
1067
1068
1069
1070
1071
1072
1073
1074
1075
1076
1077
1078
1079
1080
1081
1082
1083
1084
1085
1086
1087
1088
1089

ILLINOIS.
Grand Lodge ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Masons of State . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
American Lodge, U. D., Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Auburn Park Lodge, No. 789, Chicago . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Brighton Park Lodge, No. '854, Chicago . . . . . . . . . . .
Beacon Lights Lodge, No. 784, Chicago . . . . . . . . . . .
Chester Lodge, No. 72, Chester . . .. .. . . . . . . . . .. . . . .
Grand Lodge account of Columbia Lodge, No. 474...
Columbian Lodge, No. 819 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
D. C. Cregier Lodge, No. 643 . • . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . .. .
Chicago Lodge, No. 437 ... ·.......................
East St. Louis Lodge, No. 504 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . .
Fides Lodge, No. 842 • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . .
Gothic Lodge, No. 852 ........................... ~
Humboldt Park Lodge, No. 813 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Kilwinning Lodge, No. 311 . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . . . .
Lawn Lodge, No. 815 ..•• ..•.. • : . . . . . . . • . . . . . . • . •
Lakeside Lodge, No. 739 . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . .
Lincoln Park Lodge, No. 611 . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Normal Park Lodge, No. 797 . . . . . . • .. . . . . . . . .. . . .
Olympia Lodge, No. 864 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Pleaides Lodge, No. 478...... .. ........... .. ......
Rock River Lodge, No. 612 . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Siloam Lodge, No. 780 . • .. . . . • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . .

1, 733 00
71 85
5 00
10 00
10 00
5 00
5 00
3 00
20 00
20 00
40 00
20 00
7 80
20 00
10 00
20 00
5 00
5 00
20 00
20 00
10 00
5 00
5 00
10 00

Carried Forward . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

$8,272 52

- - -- -

1090
1091
. 1092
1093
1094
1095

579

Brought Forward .•..•....... , .....•.............

$8,272 52

Wright's Grove Lodge, No. 779 ••.• •• •.••..••....•
York Chapter, No. 148, R. A. M . ......•...•....
Robert Morris Chapter, ·o. E. S .................. .
Boulevard Lodge, No. 822 •..•..•••...••.•.••....
Oriental Lodge, No. 33 •.•............•...........
Grand Lodge, account Masons of State ••..........

10 00
20 00
4 00
5 00
10 00
288 20

INDIANA.
1096

Grand Lodge

239 35

1097
1098

INDIAN TERRITORY.
Grand Lodge ............ , ...................... .
Scottish Rite Bodies ..•.... . ...•.................

20 00
200 00

IOWA.
Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ............ .
1~00 Centennial Lodge, No. 373 •. , ••. : ...•.••..........
1101 Ashlar Lodge, No. 11,1 ......................... .
1102 Salem Lodge, No. 17 ..••........•..••••. . . , ..•.

915 00
2 00
5 00
100

1099

KANSAS.
1103 Grand Lodge account Blue Lodges ............... .
1104 Grand Lodge ... .. .•.... . .........•..............
1105 Grand Lodge account Great Bend Lodge, No. 15 .....
1106 Grand Lodge account Emporia Lodge, No. 12 .......•
1107 Grand Lodge account Rising Sun Lodge, No. 8 .....
1108 Grand Lodge account Mount Nebo Chapter, No. 36,

5 00
100 00
10 00
10 00
5 00

R. A. M ...................... . ....•. . .........
Grand Lodge account Elinwood Lodge, No. 217 ....
Grand Lodge account Union Lodge, No. 7 ..••..•..
Grand Lodge account Orient Lodge, No. 51 ..•••.••.
Grand Lodge account Eminence Lodge, No. 205 .....
Grand Lodge nr.count Kansas Lodge, No, 307 • ..•...
Grand Lodge account Greenwood Lodge, No. 163 .•.
Linwood Lodge, No. 241 .•....••....••.•. . . . ....
Downs Lodge, No. 204 ......•..•..•..• .. ...•.•...
Belleville Chapter, No. 691 R. A. M • •••••.•.....•.

20 00
10 00
10 00
20 00
10 00
5 00
2 00
3 00
5 00
10 00

R;ENTUCKY.
1118 Grand Lodge account Blue Lodges ......•..•.....
1119 Grand Lodge ......•.................•...•.......
1120 Daylight Lodge, No. 760 ••.•••••.• , .••••••. ; ••••.•

22 00
510 ~3
5 00

1109
1110
1111
1112
1113
1114
1115
1116
1117

Carried Forward .••••.•........•...•.......•..• $10, 754 60

..
•

580

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS. OF THE

Brought Forward .... , ........................... $17,144 50

Brought Fonv.ard ................................ $10, 154 60
1121 Providenc.e Lctdge,. No. 148 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1122 Kosair Tel)'lple, .A. A. 0. N. M. S .... ,............
1123 St. Georg!l Lpdge, :No. 239 . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
LOuISIANA.
1124 Grand Lodg.e a11count Blue Lodges ................. .
1125 Grand Lodge ..... . . . .......................... :.
1126 Union Lodge, No. 172 ................ . .......... .
1127 Jeanerette Lodge, No. 25l:i ••... , , . , ....•..........
1128 Grand Lodge account Orleans Delta. Chapter, No. 1,
R. A. M ..................................... .
1129 Grand Lodge account Columbia Lodge, No. 164 .... .
1130 Grand Lodge account Germania Lodge, No. 46 ..... .
1131 Grand Lodge account Amite Lodge, No. 175 ........ ·
1132 Ocean Lodge, No. 144 .......................... .
1133 St. James Lodge; No. 47 ......................... .
1134 Jacqtles De Molay Comniarideey, No. 2, K. T ..... .
1135 Abbeville Lodge, No. 192 ....................... .
1136 Perfect Uniciri Lodge, No~ 1 ..................... .
1137 Jefferson Lodge, No. 191 ........................ .
1138 Louisiana Lodge, No, 102 ........................ .
1139 Louisiana Lodge, No. 102, account C. A. and H. B.
Farwell •............. : . ..................... .
1140 George Washington Lodge, No. 65 .............. .
1141 Louisiana Lodge, No. 102, account Mrs. Richard
Milliken ..................•.........•.....•..
1142 Anacoco Lodge, No. 147 ..........•...............

1143

MAINE.
Grand Lodge account Blue Lodges

2 00
100 00
5 00

10 00
1,000 00
20 00
5 00
20 00
5 00.
20 00
2 00
5 00
.10 00
20 00
5 00
5 00
10 00
10 00
20 00
4 00
10 00
2 00

1150
1151

MINNESOTA.
Grand Lodge a~. count Lodges of State ........... .
Dalles Lodge, No. 181 . ; ........................ .

448 ~o
5 00

1152
1153

MISSISSIPPI.
Grand Lodge ................................... ,
Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ........... .

200 00
510 43

1154
1155
1156
1157
1158
1159
1160
1161
1162

MISSOURI.
Grand Lodge ............................... . ... ,.
Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ........... .
Seaman Lodge, No. 126 .......................... .
Solomon Council, No. 26, F. & A. M ............•...
Milan Chapter, No. 103 ...................... .' .. .
St. Bernard Commandery, No. 52, K. T ...... . ..... .
Naphtali Lo.dge, No. 29 .......................... .
Charity Lodge, No: 331 .......................... .
Samaritan Lodge, No. 424 • , .................... .

1,000 00
974 76
10 00
5 00
5 00
5 00
40 00
40 00
10 00

MONTANA.
Grand Lodge .............................•......
Grand Lodge account Subordinate Lodges of State ..
Grand Lodge account Scottish· Rite Bodies of Butte
Masonic Relief Committee of Butte, per R. H. Paxson, Chairman ......................... , ..... .

20715

NEBRASKA.
1167 Grand Lodge ..........................· ......... .
1168 Lincoln Lodge, No. 19 .......................... .

100 00
40 00

NEVADA.
Grand Lodge account Lodges o~ State ........... .

680 31

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
1170 Grand Lodge .................................. ..
117L Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ............. .

245 00
54 95

NEW JERSEY.
1172 Grand Lodge ac.c ount Lodges of State ..............
1173 Washington Lodge, No. 33 ...................... .
1174 Salaam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S ................. .
1175 Roswell Lodge, No. 18 ........................... .
1176 Lebanon· Lodge, No. 22 .................. ; . . ..... .

2,100 00
20 00
100 00
30 00 I
10 00

,
1163
1164
1165
1166

16 00
1169

1144
1145

MARYLAND.
Grand Lodge , ....•..............................
Annapolis Lodge, No. 89 ........................ .

. 2,515 00
4 00

1146
1147

MASSACHUSETTS.
Grand. :I!oqg«; .•. _., ·............................... .
Grand Lodge account Lodges of 13th Masonic Dist.

1,320 00
23 00

MICHIGAN.
1148 Gran\}. Loqg11 ............•. ,,, ... , ............... .
1149 Gran!l. LQi;lg!l ..ac.c.oµI\t. Blue Lodges ............. .

200 00
1,02190

-----

Cai;Jjed. ;Fo:r:wiird .. , ,, .• , " , ,, " " . . . . . . . . • . . . . . $17, 144 50

581

60 00
47130
30 00

Carried Forward .........•..................... $24,546 60

.

582

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Brought Forward ........................•.. : ; ... $2'1,546 60
1177
·1178
1179
1180

NEW YORK.
Grand Lodge ...•................................
Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ............. .
Merchants' Lodge, No. 709 ....................•..
Masonic Lodge, No. 37 ••..... , .. ......... ....... . .

51'3

Brought Forward ••..................•.•.•....... $40,350 27
TENNESSEE.
1203 Grand Lodge ... . ...............................•
1204 South Memphis Lodge, No. 118 ..••..........•.....
1205 Leila Lodge, No. 289 ....... . .......•..•..........

1,000"00
7,196 90
80 00
10 00

50 00
20 00
5 00

TEXAS.

OHIO.
1181 Grand Lodge .a ccount Lodges of State ........... .
1182 Columbian Commandery, No. 52, K. T .....•.......
1183 Western Reserve Chapter, No. 8, R. A. M .......... .

1,600 00
20 00
20 00

OKLAHOMA.
1184 Grancl Louge .........•...................•.....•
1185 Earleboro Lodge, No. 72 . ..•..........•.•.•....•

18165
4 00

OREGON.
1186 9-rand Lodge, account Blue Lodg~s .•.............
1187 Grand Lodge .................................. .
!188 Oregon Commandery, No. 1, K. T: ...•...........
1189 Hal'mony Lodge, No. 12 ..•..•....................
1190 Portland Lodge, No. 55 .••.. . .... . • .•• .... · ··.· ...•

163 00
100 00
40 00
100 00
50 00

1191
1192
1193
1194

PENNSYLVANIA.
Grand Lodge ............... .. ....•...... · · . · · · · ·
Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ............. .
Robert Burns Lodge, No. 464 ...•.......••.•......
Lu Lu Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S ............... . . .

1,000 00
3,000 00
20 00
166 65

1195

RHODE ISLAND.
Grand Lodge account Masoris of State .... •• .. ....

623 26

SOUTH CAROLINA.
1196 Grand Lodge account Blue Lodges ................ .
1197 Landmark Lodge, No. 76 ......•..................
1198 Union Kilwinning Lodge ... . . ." ............. . .... .

122 20
20 00
20 00

MEXICO.
1199 Grand Lodge account Masons of Mexico ........... .

197 71

AUSTRALIA.
1200 Grand Lodge South Australia ................... . .

48 30

SOUTH l)AKOT A.
1201 Grand Lodge account Blue Lodges.... . ............
1202 Cotean Lodge . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . .

10 00
10 00

Carried Forward .... .. •.....•..•..•.. ; .•••...•. 1840,350 27

.l

1206

Grand Lodge

1207
1208

UTAH.
Grand Lodge .. ..........•.......................
Tintic Lodge, No. 9.•...................•....•..•.•

100 00
22 00

1209
1210
1211

VERMONT.
Grand Lod.g e ... ..................•......... . .. . .
G. W. Hunter account Dayton H. Switzer .......... .
Mt. Anthony Lodge, No. 13 ..... . ........... . .... .

265 30
10 00
5 55

1212
1213
1214
1215

VIRGINIA.
Grand. Lodge ............. . ................. ... . .
Grand Lodge account Norfolk Lodges .............. .
Winchester Hiram Lodge, No. 21 •.•.•.•••• ..... ..• ·
Suffolk Lodge, No. 30 ..................... .... .. .

610 00
80 00
20 00
20 00

1216
1217
1218
1219
1220
1221
1222
1223
1224
1225

WASIDNGTON.
Grand Lodge . .. . . .......... •.. ......... • ....... .
Grancl Lodge account Blue Lodges . . .....•. •.. ... ..
Grand Lodge account Bremerton Lodge, No. 117 ..••
Grand Lodge account Anvil Lodge, No. 140 ... .... .
Palouse Lodge, No. 46 ••••..•..••.•....• ..••.. • •..
Northport Lodge, No. 100 .......... .. .. . . . .. . ... .
Waitsburg Lodge, No. 16 ........... . ........... ..
Olympia Lodge, No. 137 ... • •....••• •••• ..•..•..
Everett Lodge, No. 137 •.•.. ••.. ...•..•...........
Chehalis Lodge, No. 28 ......... ·... . .... . ....... .

100 00
128 00
2800
90 00
10 00
20 00
20 00
40 00
10 00
40 00

1226

Grand Lodge

1,600.00

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
WEST VIRGINIA.
1227 Grand Lodge • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . .
1228 Grand Lodge West Virginia account Morgantown
Union Lodge, No. 4........ . .... . .............
1229 Minturn ~dge, No. 19 • . . .. . • • . • . . • . . • . . . . . . • . • • .

523 30

60 00
IO O~
5 00

Carried Forward .......•..........•••••.••.•..• $44,242 42

..

584

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Brought Forward .. , , , ... , . , ... , ... , ............ . $44,242 42
WISCONSIN.
1230 Grand Lodge ........ ; .......................... .
1231 Grand Lodge account Lodges of State ........... .
1232 Lancaster Lodge, No. 20 ......................... .
1233 Keystone Lodge, No. 263 ........................ .
1234 Grand Lodge account Robt. Morris Lodge, No. 115 ..
1235 Grand Lodge account Winneconne Lodge, No. 90 .. .
1236 Grand Lodge account Pardee Lodge, No. 171. ...... .
1237 Oshkosh Lodge, No. 27 ......................... .
1238 ·Columbia Lodge, No. 124 ......................... .
1239 Independence Lodge,' No. 80 ..................... .
1240 Grand Lodge ................................... .
1241 Charleston Lodge, No. 407 ....................... .
1242 Barney Lodge, No. 279 ......•...................

200 00
652 55
10 00
2 00
3 00
1 00
2 00
20 00
8 00
20 00
-6 70
5 00
5 00

MISCELLANEOUS.
1243 Masonic Board of Control, Springfield, Ill. ....... .
1244 Midway Lodge, No. 185, F. & A, M ............... .
1245 Starr King todge, F. & A. M ..................... .
1246 Otta~a Lodge, No. 128, F. & A. M ................ .
1247 Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Arkansas .............. .
1248 Mt .. Olivet Lodge, No. 3, F. & A. M ............... .
1249 Yellowstone Masonic Club ...................... ..
1250 Crescent Lodge, F. & A. M ....................... .
1251 Sonora Lodge, No. 12, F. & A. M .............. ..
1252 Lake View Lodge, No. 774, F. & A. M ............. .
1253 Peoria Lodge, No. 15, F. & A. M ................ .
1254 Sconondoa Lodge, No. 814, F. & A. M ............ .
1255 Ma~donald Lodge, No. 10.3, F. & A. M ........... .
1256 Valley Lodge, No. 71, F. & A. M ................. .
1257 Nelson Lodge, No. 30, F. & A. M ................ ..
1258 Wm. G. Hill Lodge, No. 218, F. & A. M ............ .
1259 Sonora Lodge, No. 2, F. & A. M ................ ..
1260 Hiram Lodge, No. 98, F. & A. M .•...............
1261 Union Lodge, No, 31, F. & A. M ................. .
1262 Evans Lodge, No. 524, F. & A. M ................ ..
1263 Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Indian Territory ......... .
1264 St. Johns Lodge, No. 9, F. & A. M ................ .
1265 S~int Cecilia Lodge, No. 865, F. & A. M .......... ..
1266 Rolla Lodge, No. 66, F. & A. M ................... .
1267 Coalgate Lodge, No. 129; F. & A. M ........... , .. .
Carried Forward ........

2o oo
5 00
30 00
10 00
20 00
10 00
14 00
20 00
100
20·00
20 00
12 00
10 00
5 00
10 00 .
20 00
22 00
2 00
5 00
20 00
27 00
20 00
10 00
10 00
5 00

................. ·············· $45,525,67

'

585

Brought Forward .............. , ................. $45,525 67
1268
1269
1270
1271
1272
1273
1274
1275
1276
1277
1278
1279
1280
1281
1282
1283
1284
1285
1286
1287
1288
1289
1290
1291
1292
1293
1294
1295
1296
1297
1298
12~9

1300
1301
1302
1303
1304
1305
1366

Cassia Lodge, No. 14, F. & A. M...................
Carthage Lodge, No. 181, F. & A. M ... ·-..........
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Arkansas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Herman Lodge, :N"o. 118, F. & A. M............
Olivia Lodge, No. 220, F. & A. M..................
Prarie Lodge, No. 120, F. & A. M...................
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M, New Mexico. . . . . . . . . . . . .
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Hungary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Concordia Lodge, No. 305, F. & A. M..............
Jo:ppa Lodge, No. 133, F. & A. M.................
Hibernia Lodge, No. 3, F. & A. M.................
Henderson Lodge, No. 485, F. & A. M............
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Oklahoma. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
King Edward Lodge, No. 36, F. & A. M..........
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., British Columbia........
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Canada ...........•. ~ . . . .
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., fJanada, account Civil
Service Lodge . . . . . . . . . .................... .
Sussex Lodge, No. 7, F. & A. M .................. .
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Cuba ................. .
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Ireland •..............
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Philippine Islands, account
Blue Lodges ................................ .
Grand Commandery, R. A. M., Illinois ............ .
Grand Commandery, R. A. M., Oregon ............. .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Arkansas ............ .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Connecticut .......... .
Grand Commandery, K. T., District of° Columbia .. .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Florida .............. .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Georgia .............. .
Grand Ccimmandery, K. T., Illinois .............. .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Idaho ................ .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Iowa ................ .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Indiana .............. .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Kansas .............. .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Kentucky ........... .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Minnesota ........... .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Montana ............ .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Massachusetts ....... .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Maryland ............ .
Grand Commandery, K. T., Michigan ........... .

15 00
5 oo
43 80
10 00
10 00
2140
20 00
8 oo
3 00
2 00
10 00
2 00
2 00 ·
5 00
10 00
200 00
5 00
20 20
5 00
427 05
20 to
325 00
70 00
95 30
215 00
100 00
70 00
119 80
926 20
55 00
223 50
205 60
75 00
40010
272 00
200 00
545
515 20
709 05

as,

Carried Forward ................................................... .. $·51,492 72
4

.

'
586

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Brought Forward ...... , .... .. .... .............. ............ ...... ..... $51,492 72
1307 Grand Commandery, K. T., Missouri ....... .... .. .
1308 Grand Commandery, K. T., Mississippi ........... .
1309 Grand Commandery,, K. T., New Jersey ......... .
1310 Grand Commandery, K. T., Nebraska .... ... .. .. . .
1311 Grand Commandery, K. T., New Hampshire ...... .
1312 Grand Commandery, K. T., New York ........... .

1314 Grand Commandery, K. T., North Dakota ....... .
Grand Commandery, K. T., North Carolina ....... .
1316 Grand C'omrnandery, K. T., Ohio .... , ...... . . ... .
1317 Grand Commandery, K. T., Oklahoma ........... .
1318 Grand Commandery, K. T., Oregon ....... . .. .. ... .
1319 Grand Commandery, K. T., Pennsylvania ........ .
1320 Grand Commandery, K. T., Rhode Island .... .. . . .
1321 Grand Commandery, K. T., South Dakota ...... . .
1322 Grand Commanduy, K. T., South Carolina ....... .
1323 Grand Commandery, K. T., Tennessee 1 • • • • • • • • • • •
1324 Grand Conimandery, K. T., Utah ....... . ........ .
1325 Grand Comman«:lery, K. T., Virginia ............. .
1326 Grand Commandery, K. T., Vermont ............. .
1327 Grand Commanduy, K. T., Washington . . . ....... .
1328 Grand Gommandery, K. T., Wyoming ........... . .
1329 Grand Coinmandery, K . T., Virginia ............ . .
1330 Grand Commandery-, K. T., Wisconsin ............ .
1331 Grand Priory England and Wales ...... . ......... .
1332 Scottish Rite Bodies, Colorado .... . ..... . ........ .
1333 Scottish Rite, Florida . .. . . ................ . ..... .
1334 Scottish Rite, Illinois ........................... .
1335 Scottish Rite, Indiana ... . .... .. .... . ..... . .. .. .. .
1336 Scottish Rite, Missouri .......................... .
1337 Scottish Rite, Maine ................... . ..... . . . .
1338 Scottish Rite, Nebraska .....................•....
1339 Scottish Rite, New York ........................ .
1340 Scottish Rite, Ohio ........ . .................... .
1341 Scottish Rite, Pennsylvania ..................... .
1342 Scottish Rite, South Dakota ..................... .
1343 Scottish Rite, South Carolina ........ • ...........
1344 Scottish Rite, Texas ............................ .
1345 Scottish Rite, Tennessee .... . ........... ... ...... .
1346 Scottish Rite, Wisconsin . ...................... . .
1347 Grand Commandery, R. A. M., Texas . . . . .......... .
1348 Portland Lodge, No. 55, F. & A. M ................ .
1315

165 40
50 00
305 40
100 00
98 00
614 40
116 00
192 20
453 32
54 00
40 00
1,117 15
110 00
110 20
115 00
5140
50 00
120 00
106 00
6410
40 00
69 00
194 51
200 00
100 00
120 00
300 00
100 00
160 00
100 00
120 00
210 00
210 00
200.00
50 00
19413
90 00
150 00
1,000 00
205 00
100

Carried Forward .. .... .. .. .... ......... .. ......... .................... $59,338 93

587

Brought Forwa:r:d.... . : ................................................. 59,338 93

,.

1349 Hall Warehouse Co. . .'.......... ·.. ~...............
1350 Grove City Lodge, F. & A. M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1351 Tuscan Lodge, No: 26, F. & A. M.................
1352 August Hageman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1353 Alisel Lodge, No. 321, F. & A. M.... . ............
1354 St. John's Lodge, No. 37, F. & A. M..............
1355 Howard Lodge, No. 96, F. & A. M.................
1356 Cynes Chapter, No. 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1357 Mt. Shasta Commandery, No. 32, K. T..............
1358 Stella Chapter, No. 39, O. E. S ...... _...............
1359 Winnedumah Lodge, No. 287, F. & A. M...........
1360 Millbury Lodge, F. & A. M........................
1361 Granite Lodge, No. 222, F. & A. M.................
1362 Harmony Lodge, No. 20, F. & A. M................
1363 Pencascilar Commandery, No. 8, K. T ......... ·. . . . . .
1364 Masonic Lodge, :No. 28, F. & A. M..................
1365 Bay State Lodge, F. & A. M. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1366 Kirksville Lodge, No. 105, F. & A. M .. ......... . .
1367 Macon Lodge, No, 8, F. & A. M....................
L368 .Barnett Lodge, F. & A. M.... .... ................
.1369 Syracuse Lodge, No. 501, F. & A. M.... . ...........
1370 Lodge, No. 74, F. & A. M., Spokane .......... . ... ·
1371 Grand Commandery, K . T., Missouri • . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1372 Tacoma Lodge, No. 22, F. & A. M. .. ...............
1373 Hollywood Lodge, No. 355, F. & A. M . ........ .. ...
1374 Oriental Lodge, No. 74, F. & A. M........... ... .. . .
1375 Chicp Lodge, No. 111, F. & A. M..................
1376 Columbia Chapter, No;· 132 . . .. . .. . . . .. . .. .. . .. . . ..
1377 Eden Lodge, No. 113, F. & A. M ........... -. . . . . .
' 1378 St. Paui'Lodge, No .. 3, F. & A. M.... . .. . ...........
1379 Doric Chapter, No. · 36 • . .. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. . .. .. .. . . .
1380 Fidelity Lodge, No. 120, F. & A. M., Oregon....... .
1381 Aurora Lodge, F. & A. M. . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •
1382 Oriental Lodge, No. 74, F. & A. M....... .. ......
1383 Thomas Chapter, Fitchburg, Mass • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1384 Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., Idaho . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1385 Acacia Lodge, No. 58, F. & A. M., Davenport, Wash.
1386 Burlington Lodge, No. 86, F. & A. M., Kansas.......
1387 Sonora Lodge, No. 12, F. & A. M., Cananea, Mex.. . .
1388 Friendship Lodge, No. 89, F. & A. M., Chillicothe, Mo.

20 oo
2 OO
20 OO
20 00
100 00
20 00
20 OO
20 oo
20 oo
20 00
20 OO
20 00
20 00
40 00
10 00
20 00
10 oo
2 80
10 00
2 00
20 oo
200 OO
120 OO
100
15 oo

50 oo

5 00
5 oo
10 00
30 00

10 oo
2 50

20 oo
1180
20 oo
100 00
10 00
5 OO
2 00

5 09

Total. · · · · · · · · · · ..........•................•. $60,397 23

...

588

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The statement of Se:p.tember 12th, a'fter distribution, shows a
balance still remaining with the Grand Master, for unfinished. items,
of $1,681.42, which has been disposed of as follows:
A'bove balance ................................. $1,681 42
Final interest from bank . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 08
Relief to various brethren, most of which had been.
previously promised; expert accountant ex$1,590 00
penses, etc., as per vouchers on file. . . . . . . . . . . .
Oct. 5, Balance turned over to San Francisco
Board of Relief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . .
191 50
$1,78150

$1,7815('

Thus is closed in MaSQnic history the greatest episode of its
kin'd that has occurred in the centuries of the existence of Freemasonry; it has reflected honor, and only honor, upon the Craft,_
and has placed a living crown of light µpon the teachings and prof ,siomi of our Fraternity.
Man's hand· is powerless against na.are 's 1·.;~idtlesf! sway, and it was in consequence thereof, our unhappy fate to raise perforce the signal of distress, to cry help for
the Widow 's Son; the cry was heard, and Masonic precepts burst
with splendor into life; overflowing bounty poured forth upon us,
and while the offerings of love from the entire world were spontaneous and free, uninfluenced by any consideration as to how our
Masonic duties might in times past have been discharged, yet, there
is to us a measure of compensation in the records made by our Boards
of Relief since the system was established by the Grand ~odge sonte
fifty years ago; for direct appropriatioll'll from the Grand Lodge for
their support, amounting to more than $300,000, have been made,
every dollar of which has been devoted to the relief of distressed
sojourning brethren, their widows and orphans, from other jurisdictions, and no fraction of which has been returned, and this amount
has been very largely increased through the per capita assessments
contribu·~ed monthly by the Lodges tributary to the several Boards.
Our capable Grand Secretary informs us, that after careful investigation, he has found that, owi,Il'g, no doubt, to our geographical position and benign climate, California's expenditures of this character
have been, not only more than similar expenditures of any other
American jurisdiction, but possibly nearly as large as all others
combined. This work has truly been a work of love, no sordid thought
has ever <'.ast a darklinr Rhadow, the only consideration has b!len a
high and worthy purpos·e to exemplify Masonic truths, yet when
our hour of tribu1'1ltion came, which chilled our hearts with distress

589

'lnd trial, and when warmth and gladness came .to us from the
generous glow of sympathetic love of ~ur brethren throughout the
world, we took comfort in the reflection that it also had been at
times past our priceless privil!)ge to extend to others the helpii{g
hand..
TRIALS TRANSFERRED.

Earl! in February the following letter, which will expiii.in itseif,
was received from the Worshipful Master of Excelsior Lodge, No. 166.
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., February 7, 1907.
E. H. Hart, M:. W.". Grand Master
·of the State of California~
Dear Sir and Brother: Complaint having been Inade to me that
a brother of Excelsior Lodge is considered guilty o"f conduct unber,oming a Master Mason, whicll conduct should l:e properly investigated, I . have directed my Junior Warden to prefer charges of unma:ionic conduct against the said brother, and in consequence of said
action on my part being precluded fiom the trial of the case, I respectfully request that you transfer the case for trial to such other
Lodge as in your judgment may be most appropriate.
Fraternally ·yours,
J. W, CAMERON,
Master E:tcelsior Lodge, No, 166, F. & A, M.
Acting. u~on the foregoing, we transferred to California Lodge,
No ... 1, the trial of the case referred to, which was proceeded with
bY that Lodge in aocordancl with the, law of the Grand _Lo9.ge,
. . F?·r the reasons disclosed in copy of · correspondence presented
herewith, we trans_ferred trial of a case from San '.Bernardino Lodge,
l'fo. 348, to Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, the only important que'stioh of
procedure involved being; the decision of the Grand Master1 which is
submitted for approval, that San Bernardino Lodge had, by virtue of
its ~cti;>n. in ordering Its Junior Warden to prefer the charges, dis·
qualified itself from trying the case. Following is a copy of the
correspondence· in full:
SAN BERNARDINO, CAL., March 5th, 11)07,
To George Johnson, Grand Secretary
of Masont'I· I 11 Calif.orniaDear Sir .and Brother: ·On the 7th of February the Junior War•Jen of San Bernardino Lodge, No, ·3481 was ordered by the Lodge to

·'

590

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

prefer charges against a Brother for conduct unbecoming a Master
Mason, and on February 14th, at a special meeting held for the election of a Trial Commission, the Junior Warden was elected one of
the Commissioners. The question has come up whether he can act
as one of the Commission. If he had preferred ·the charges on his
own account we know he could not, but being ordered by ·the Lodge
to do so, and it being thrown on the Lodge to prove the charges, J
can find no law on the subject. Can you tell us whether he' can.
act or not.
Also, as the trial may be a very long one, can the testimony be
taken by a shorthand reporter-the said reporter being a member of
this Lodge. I know that the law says tliat the Secretary shall take
down the testimony in long hand, but thought perhaps that there
might be some way to do otherwise. If there is any way to do it
I would like very much to get out of the job.
Yours fraternally,
JOHN FLAGG, Secretary.
March 12, 1907.
Mr. John Flagg, Secretary of
San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348, F. & A. M.,
San Bernardino, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: Your communication dated March 5th,
and addressed to the Very Worshipful Grand- Secretary, has been
referred by the Grand Secretary to me for answer.
It is not permitted under our law to have the testimony at a
Masonic trial t::ken by a shorthand rf porter.
The only persons
authorize.;. to be present at such a trial in addition to the trial'
commissioners, are the Master and the Secretary, and it is the duty
of the Secretary to take the testimony down in long hand, as it is
~ven and a stenographer is not permitted.
·
Replying to the other po:\"tion of your letter, I would say that
the Junior Warden is most assuredly disqualified from acting as a
trial commissioner, but that is not so material Jn this case as is the
fa"ct that San Bernardino Lodge itself is disqualified from trying this
case, because of the fact that the charges against this brother were
preferred by order of the Lodge.
If therefore, the Master of your Lodge will make the request,
I will order the trial transferred to another Lodge.
Yours sincerely and fraternally;
EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master of Masons of California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

591

SAN BERNARDINO, CAL., March 16th, 1907.
Mr. Edwai:d H. Hart, Grand Master
of Masons in CaliforniaDear _Sir and Brother: Your letter of the 12th was received,
and as you therein decided that the Lodge could not try the charges
as presented, we have concluded under Section 511 of the digest •
that the charges will be withdrawn. This is a case where we do
not wish another Lodge to try, it is an affair of our own, and rather
than to burden some other Lodge with the matter we want to withdraw the charges. Now, what we want. to know is," can we, under
Section 511, have the charges withdrawn by a vote of the Lodgef
We take that decision to mean that · the Master has no control over
the charges, but it rests entirely with the Lodge. i\.t the time
the charges · were made there were several members that wanted to
prefer the charges individually, but we thought the Lodge had better
do it themselves, and from all the decisions that we can find we
could find nothing that we thought pre~ented the Lodge from trying
the case. As you have decided otherwise, we wish under all the circumstances surrounding the case to have the charges withdrawn.
Yours fraternally,
JOHN FLAGG, Secretary.
P. S. If the Lodge should withdraw would it prevent a Master
Mason in good standing from preferring charges if they so desired f
JOHN FLAGG, Sec~etary.
March 20, 1907.
•
Mr. John Flagg, Secretary San Bernardino
Lodge, l'lo. 348, F. & A. M.,
San Bernardino, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother:
Your communication of the 16th inst.
is received and noted. Will you kindly by return mail send me a
copy of the charges. preferred against the brother of your Lodge,
and until I receive a copy of the charges and you hear from me
further in the matter, you will please defer withdrawal of the
charges or any f!lrther action thereon.
Yours .sincerely and fraternally,
EDWARD H. HART,
I
Grand Master of Masons of California.

592

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA •.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
SAN BERNARDINO, CAL., March 22d, 1907.

Mr. Edward H. Hart, Grand Master
of Masons in California,
San Francisco, CaliforniaDear Sir and Brother: . Your letter of the 20th received, and
• per your request I enclose a copy of the charges as. preferred by the
Junior Warden, by order of the Lodge.
·
Yours fraternally,
JOHN FLAGG, Secretary.
(Copy of charges omitted.)
March 29, 1907.
Mr. John Flagg, Secretary,
S!ln Bernardino Lodge, No. 348, F. & A. M.,
San BErnardino, Cal.- ·
Dear Sir and Brother: Yonr recent favor transmitting to me
a copy of the charges preferred against the brother of San Bernardino Lodge came duly to hand. The matter has received my eareful
attention and . inasmuch as the charges are of such a nature that
they cannot be disregarded or withdrawn, and, as state~ to
in
one of my communications, San Bernardino Lodge bemg m our
judgment disqualified from trying the case, I have transf.erred the
matter· of the trial to Phoenix Lodge, No. 178; and have mstructed
the Master of that Lodge to proceed according to our law in the
election of a commission and trial of the case.

!ou.

The Junior Warden of San Bernardino Lodge will represent the
accuser in the presentation of the case. ,
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master of Masons of California.
:March :::i, 1;!07.

W:. Mack Bailey Shaw,
Master .Phprnix Lodge, No. 178, F. & A. M.,
San Bernar<lino, Cal.Worshipful Sir and Brother:
Having been advised that San
Bernardino Lodge, No. 348, F. & A. M., has. ordered ~ts Junior War·
den to prefer charges against a brother of said San Berna.rdino Lodg~,
and inasmuch as in our judgment the said San Bernardino Lodge ~s
disqul!Iified from trying said charges, I have, as Gran? Mas.ter, d1·
rected that the said case be transfened to your Lodge for trial, and

593

I hereby transfer said case to your Lodge and transmit herewith copy
o! the charges above referred to, signed by the Junior Warden of
San Bernardino Lodg~, and I hereby direct you to proceed at once
with the election of it trial commission and to the trial of the case
according to the law of the Grand Lodge.
The Junior Warden of San Bernardino Lodge will represent the
accuser in the prosecution of the case.
Yours since~ely and fraternally,
EDWARD H. HA.RT,
Grand Master of Masons of California.
March 29, 1907.
Mr. Will L. Brown, Junior Warden
San Bernardino . ·Lodge, No. 348, F. & A. M.,
San Bernardino, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: I have transferred the trial of charges
dated February 7, 19077 against a brother of San Bernardino Lodge
No. 3487 to Phoenix Lodge, No. 1787 and I hereby direct that you
represent the accuser in this case, and when the trial commission is
elected by Phoenix Lodge that you appear before said commission
and try the charges which bear your signature as Junior Warden,
dated February 7, 1907, and addressed to the Master of San Bernardino Lodge.
It is essential that diligence be exercised in the proper prosecu·
tion of this ease and that all the evidence be presented to the' commission, and I especially direct you to exercise care and thoroughness in the presentation of the case.
Yours sincerely and .fr11.ternally,
, EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master of .Masons of California.
The Grand Master also transferred the trial of a case from
·Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, to San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348, at the
request of the Master of the former Lodge, who considered himself
disqualified to act because of bias.
DECISIONS.

Early i n the year numerous requests were received for an inter·
pretation of the Resolution adopted at the last Communication of th~
Grand Lodge concerning committees of in'Vestigation on petitions for
degrees, and ~pplications for membership, and in response thereto, we

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNIA.

construed the resolution as follows, which construction is submitted
for your approval:
Our interpretation of the resolution adopted at the last Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge of California in reference to
keeping secret the names of brethren appointed on Committees of
Investigation on petitions for degree1• and a{>plications for membership, and our judgment as to the pn per method of procedure, are
as follows:
The intention of the resolution being to secure absolute secrecy,
the names of the brethren appointed on these committees should
not, in our opinion, be given by the Master to · the Secretary, to
enable him, as formerly, to notify the brethren of their appointment, neither should. their reports be returned to the Secretary; but
the Master himself should severally notify the members of the committees of their appointment, not revealing to one the identity of. the
' others, and their reports should be rende~ed by them directly to
him, and when practicable, should be given verbally, and if in writing, after having subserved the purpose of informing the Master of
the results of the investigations, should be by him, destroyed, and
his simple announcement to the Lodge of such results, will be all the
information concerning these reports conveyed by him to anyone.

Gardena Lodgeroom was situated within this strip. When this
''Shoestring Strip'' was declared a part of the municipality of Los
Angeles, this Board of Relief sent a communication to Gardena
Lodge, asking that they appoint a committee of representatives on
our Board, that they unite with and become a part of the Board, and
make their monthly contribution regularly, as the other Lodges of
our city do.
Gardena Lodge did appoint that committee, and were present
and took part in our proceedings in April and May, but have not
been present since, neither have they made any contribution financially.
The members of their committee have been · n~tified of each
meeting of our Board by the Secretary, according to the addresses
furnished me by the Secretary of Gardena· Lodge.
Last week I sent a special letter to the Secretaries of the various Lodges in this city, including Gardena Lodge, and received the •
following letter from the Secretary of Garden~ Lodge:

Gardena Lodge, No. 372, and Its Relation to the Lodges of the City
of Los Angeles.

•

The latter part of August a letter, of which the following is a
copy, was received from the Secretary of the Masonic Board of
Relief of Los Angeles:
LOS ANGELES, CAL., Aug. 8, 1907.
To the Most Worshipful Edward H. Hart,
Grand Master of Masons of the State of California,
903 Call Building, San Francisco, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: At the last stated meeting of the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles, I was requested to communicate with you and obtain .a ruling as to the standing of Gardena
Lodge, No. 372, F. & A. M., in relation to this Board of Relief.
Gardena Lodge was situated in a territory a few miles outside
of t~e boundary lines of Los Angeles City.
Early this year an
election was regularly held by the qualified electors of our city, and
a portion of Los Angeles County, which resulted in the annexing to
the City of Los Angeles, of a portion of land, one-half mile wide,
and several miles long, known as the '' Sho~string Strip.''

•

595

"GARDENA, CAL., Aug. 1, 1907.
'' J. M. Dunsmoore"Dear Sir and Brother: Gardena Lodge, No. 372~ is not
. in limits of city and never was recognized by Grand Lodge
as being in city.
"N. E. COWLES, Se_c."
It seems now that Gardena Lodge has recently moved to a
Lodgeroom a few rods distant from its old quarters, but beyond the
boundary of the ''Shoestring Strip,' 1 and thus claim th~y are not
within the jurisdiction of the Los Angeles City Lodges. While we
have perhaps no right to question their motive for changing their
quarters, it is safe to say the committee was very much surprised to
find that when our city extended its boundaries around their Lodgeroom, they would be expected to charge $50.00 at least for the degree
fees (their fees heretofore being $30.00) and to make a monthly
contribution to the Board of Relief of 8 cents per capita.
Now the question is: Did Gardena Lodge get consent from the
Grand Master to change its place of meeting, and if not, had it a .
right to make the change and go outside of the corporate limits of
the City of Los Angeles and out of the jurisdiction of the Los
Angeles City Lodges, of its own motion f
Hence our question: What is the standing . of Gardena Lodge,
No. 372, F. & A. M., in relation to the Masonic Board of Relief qf
Los Angeles t
Fraternally,
J.M. DUNSMOOR, See.

596

PROCEEDINGS OF THE·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The town of Gardena is 14 miles -distant from the business section of the City of Los Angeles, It is a town or community quite
separate and distinct from the city, having practically nothing in
eommon therewith, and our Masonic charter was issued for a Lodge
in the town of Gardena, which Lodge has a right, in our .judgment,
without. special permission, to move its Lodgeroom anywhere withi~
the town, as will appear from the following reply, which we addressed to the Secretary of the Los Angeles Board of Relief:

Waiver of Jurisdiction.
I received a letter from the Secretary of one of our Lodges, of
which the following is a copy:
July 30, 1907.
Most Worshipful Edward H. Hart;
Grand Master, F. & A.. M.Dear Sir and Brother: Will you kindly answer the following:
When should a request for a waiver of jurisdiction be acted upon f
at the same meeting when presented or should it lie over until the
next meetingf
If it should lie over, should committee be appointed f

September 4, 1907.
Mr. J. M. Dunsmoor, Secretary,
Masonic Board of Relief,

If the Lodge refuse to waive jurisdiction, can another L~dge
holding concurrent jurisdiction, receive and act upon an application
from the same applicant within one year from· the time the former
Lodge rejected the application f

312 Frost Bldg., Los Angeles, Cal.Dear Sir and Brother: Your favor of the 8th ult. in reference
t to. the question as to whether or not Gardena Lodge is properly within
the joint jurisdiction of the Los Angeles Lodges and hence included
in the membership or the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles,
came duly to hand.

Yours fraternally,

The charter to Garden!l Lodge, No. 372, was issued. to a Lodge in
the town of Gardena, and in 'moving its Lodgeroom into the town
of Gardena it committed, in our judgment, no infraction of our
law. Gardena Lodge c~uld not have acquired joint jurisdiction with
the Lodges of the city of Los Angeles and have become a member .
of the Masonic Board of Relief of that city without first amending
its By-Laws, raising its fees .for degrees tl;i the minimum allowed by
our Com1titution wh€re joint jurisdiction is held with 0°ther Lodges.
No amendment of this character· was ever presented to me for ·my ...
official approval, without which it would not become effective, and
for this reason, if no other; Gardena's attempted recognition of th~
jurisdiction of your Board was premature and improper;

And my reply thereto was as follows:
August 12, 1907. .
Dear Sir and Brother: Your favor of the 30th ult., propounding to us question relating to waiver of jurisdiction, came duly to
hand.
In reply to your question as to whether a request for a waiver
of jurisdiction should be acted upon by the Lodge at the same meeting when presented, I won.Id say that it should not be so acted upon,
but should lie over for one month, and a Committee should be appointed to investigate, first as to whether the Lodge to whom the request for waiver is addressed, actually possesses jurisdiction, and secondly if the rrnsons alleged by the applicant as to why a waiver is
desired, are good and sufficient. This report can only be rendered at
a stated meeting succeeding the one when the request is received,
and the Lodge can only act intelligently in the light of the information afforded thereby.

Iii addition to the reasons above set forth it is, we believe, impracticable for the town of Gardena to hold concurrent jurisdiction
with the Lodges of the city of Los Angeles, and we hardly think
that Gardena Lodge is open to criticism for moving its Lodgeroom
into the town of Gardena, and out of the so-called "Shoestring
Strip.''
Yours sincerely and fraternally,
,EDWARD H .. HART,
Grand Master of. Masons of California.

597

'

If the Lodge to whom the request for waiver of jurisdiction has
been made refuses to grant the waiver asked for, another Lodge
holding concurrent jurisdiction, cannot, within twelve months, receive and act upon a request from the same' applicant.

Yours sincerely and fraternally,
EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master of Masons of California.

598

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
A Vouchment.

A Past Master of one of our Lodges addressed to us t he following communication:
September 4, 1907.
Mr. E. H. Hart,
M.'. W.'. Granu MasterDear Sir and Brother: A Lodge in this city acting upon the
autllority of Section 935 of Decisions as given in Anderson's Manual, page 389, admitted a sojourning brother on a vouchment of one
oi its members, who had recently sat with him in a Chapter of
Royal Arch Masons.
A few days thereafter the visiting brother·
was taken sick and was cared for by the Board of Relief. A . brother
who attended him, wishing to notify his Lodge, asked the name. of
the Lodge and the address of its Secretary. It developed that the
brother had been dimitted from a Lodge in one of the Eastern States
for n68.rly four years.
It seems to me that the decision quoted is doubtful authority. I
therefore ask you to decide as to the necessary prerequisites for a
vouchment.
Yours fraternally,
My answer was:
No Mason can rightfully vouch for a visiting brother unless he
shall have sat with him in open Lodge, or have examined him under
proper authority.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA •.

n99

To this I an.s wered:
The same reasons which impelled the Grand Lodge at the Annual
Communication of 1906 to adopt the resolution providing for secrecy
of committees of investigation, clearly indicate that voting upon
objection to advancement, as set forth in the above letter, should be
by secret ballot, and not by show of hands, for by show of hands
the brothers voting would be obliged to expose their ballots. Owing
to the impracticability of voting by ball and cube, the ballot should
be taken by slips tJf paper on each of which should be written "yes"
Or ''no.''
The Status of Past Masters of Oceanic Lodge, No. 371.
·We have r eceived a letter from the ·Secretary of the above
named Lodge, asking if the Past Masters of old Lodge Le Progres
de l 'Oceanie, · No. 124, A. & A. · S. R., are to be considered as Pa~t
Masters within the meaning of that term as defined in our Constitution.
Our reply thereto was to the effect that inasmuch as Oceanie
Lodge, No. 371, is in every sense of the word, the successor under a
new name of Lodge Le Progres· de l' Oceanie, No. 124, A. & ~· S. R.,
the Past Masters by servfoe in the old Lodge are to be regarded in
the light of Past Masters by service in Oceanic Lodge, No. 371, and
as such are entitled to all the rights and prirlleges of Past Masten
of the jurisdietion.
The question has been as.k ed me:
"What is the anniversary day of a Lodge'"

Voting on Objection to Advancement.
The following letter was received by us from one of the active
Past Masters of our jurisdiction, a Past Inspector of one of our districts:
September ii, 1907.
Most Worshipful E. H. Hart,
Grand Master of Masons,
San Franc.isco, Cal.Most Worshipful Sir and Brother: I will esteem it a favor if
you will send me an answer to the following:
When objection has been made to advancement of an Entere<l
Apprentice, or a Fellow Craft, and the Committee has reported, how
should the vote of the Lodge be taken 7
Yours sincerely and ·f raternally,

...

My answer was:
"Unquestionably the date of its dispensation.' i
This question was so decided unanimously by this Grand Lodge
at the Annual Communication of 1903, as appears by the Proceedings,
but for some reason this action was overlooked in the Digest of Decisions contained in Anderson's Manual.
There are some other questions that have been asked so recently
that it has been impossible for us to incorporate the answers thereto
in this report.
THE MASONIC HOME.

The great monument of Masonic beneficence within our State \s
the Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home at Decoto, or, according ·
to th~ new By-Lawe adopted during the past year by the Board of

600

601

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANI) LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Trustees, to conform the name more nearly to the true character of
the ins titu tion, "'l'he Masonic Home of California," and it is a
monument of which every Mason in the jurisdiction may justly feel
proud.

need of a Superintendent could be put aside no longer, but demanded
present action, it came as an inspiration to the Grand Master, that
the one man in California suited in every respect to the requirements
of the responsible and trying position, was that same man, William
Harvey Edwards; and this conviction was deepened and confirmed
in our knowledge, because of personal acquaintance, of the eminent
fitness of his gracious an~ talented wife, to fill with absolute perfection, and overflowing measure of equipment, the high and important
position of matron. We doubted, however, that it would be possible to persuade Brother Edwards to give up all other interests and
assume charge of this great work; he yielded, however, to the
appeal 'of the Grand Master and the unanimous and urgent request
of the Board of Trustees, and on October 1st took the helm at
Decoto, and every Mason in California knows into what safe and
sure hands that helm has passed.
We have taken from our Grand Jurisdiction a Grand Lecturer,
who during his incumbency of ten years in office, has wrought into
harmony the "work" throughout our commonwealth; he has carried
the standard upward to so high a level of efficiency that a successor
may, we believe, be chosen who will hold the results which he has
achieved; and in transferring him to a bigger, better, broader
field of usefulness, we have, we believe, bestowed upon the fraternity
the most beneficent act of our administration.

The sad and untimely death of Past Grand Master Hiram N.
Rucker in December, 1905, who was at that time the Superintendent
of the .Home, left that institution withou.t a. chief administrative
official. The noble and superior woman, who had been for so many
years Dr. Rucker 's companion and helpmeet, and who had during
his incumbency as superintendent at Decoto, ably assisted him as
matron, consented to remain and perform the duties of that office
until such a time as she could be relieved without serious detriment
to the Home, and for nearly two y.ears the chief responsibility of the
internal direction of our cherished institution rested upon Mrs.
Rucker, and to say that she discharged that responsibility with a
high order of ability, winning the unstinted appr9val and commendation of the Board of Trustees, is to accord to her but a faint measure
of the praise to which she is justly entitled. Her administration was
full of excellence and order, she endeared herself to every resident
of the Home, and in the hearts of the children, as seen in their daily
attitude towards her, she is enshrined with a richness of affection
and tenderness that will ever remain a priceless tribute to her gentleness, her character, and worth.
·
For several reasons the Board found it difficult to secure a suitable successor to Dr. Rucker; men possessing the proper training and
adaptibility for the work being by no means numerous, and besides
this, the remuneration attached to the office is not attractive to men
of ability, except by combining in husband and wife, as in the case
of Dr. and Mrs. Rucker, the two positions of superintendent and
matron with the. salaries pertaining thereto, and the incidental privilege of a family residence at the Home free of expense. Early in
the year the conviction was borne in upon the Grand Master that
what was needed at Decoto was not only a competent matron, which
we had, but a competent superintendent as well, which we had not;
a man fitted not only to take supreme direction of the internal
affairs of t~e Home, and exercise a watchful care over the residents,
especially the boys, but one also qualified, under direction of the
Board, to assume a large part of the responsibility of the business
administration of the institution.
·
During the past five years it has been our rare good fortune to
be intimately associated with our Very Worshipful Grand Lecturer,
having traveled with him throughout the length and breadth of our
Grand Jurisdiction; and when the time arrived that the pressing

VISITS.
A tour of visitation thrdughout the Masonic districts of California impresses most forcibly upon one the immensity of our wonderful
land. California is an empire covering an area more extensive than
the States of Maine, New Hampshhe, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania
combined, with a coast line, if measured upon the Atlantic seaboard,
extending from the coast bf Maine to that of South Carolin-a. There
are in California fifty-four regular, and four special Masonic districts, making fifty-eight in all, and the Grand Master has, during
the past year, visited officially and held district meetings in all of
these fifty-eight districts, omitting none, and in several of the larger
and more important districts, we have visited nearly every individual
Lodge therein. He has extended his tour of visitation over the seas,
exchanging fraternal greetings with our Lodges in the Hawaiian
Islands, more than two thousand miles fro~ our shores-the so-calle1
Forty-ninth California Masonic District; and the only district within
the broad sweep of the embracing arms of the mighty jurisdiction
of California not visited by the Grand Master during the past year,

5

602

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

is the so-called Fiftieth District, comprising the Philippine Islands,
and the only reason why he failed to call upon this far away district was that the year contained only twelve months, instead of
fourteen.
The distance traveled on land by the Grand Master in his tour
of visitation was more than twenty thousand miles, and the distance
traveled by sea nearly five thousand miles, together being ·sufficient
to encircle the globe.
During this grand tour of visitation, many notable Masonic
incidents came along our pathway. In the city of Porterville, in
December last, at a meeting of Porterville Lodge, No. 303, we were
present at the raising at one meeting, to the sublime degree of
Maste;r Mason, of a father and fo.ur sons, an incident of this kind
which we believe is absolutely the world's record.
We were also present in the month of July in the city of Santa
Cruz at a meeting of Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38, at the raising to the
degree of Master M~~on of one Hiram Abif. The young man, who
had just passed thP age • •w enty-one, had still another name, Lorenzen, we believe; but until that night he had never fully understood the significanee of the name he bore, and it is needless to say
that his father, who was present that evening, an earnest Mason,
was also an enthusiastic member of the craft, something like twentyone years ago.
It has not been uncommon during the past year for us to be
present at meetings where fathers have raised to the sublime degree
their own sons, and one of the rare and delightful privileges, which
came to the Grand Master during his year of office, was that of
conferring, on September 12th, in California Lodge, No. 1, upon his
own son this crowning degree of Ancient Craft Masonry.
This simple recital of visitations during the past twelve mont.h s
might seem sufficient, but the personal contact by the Grand Master
with the Masons of our vast jurisdiction, in their own homes, means
more to him than a plain recital of the facts; it means meeting
with Monroe and Richards and their men in the shadows of the
giant redwoods of Humboldt and Mendocino counties; it means
gathering with the Masons under Dr. Nutting and Judge Sweeney
in Siskiyou and Shasta at the base of that lofty and silent sentinel
at our northern portal, the eternally snow crowned king of the
Sierras; it means exchanging fraternal greetings with the brethr~n
assembled from mountains, meadows, lakes and timbered slopes m
. far off Lassen and Modoc counties, with Christie and Bonner; it
means the hand grasp with those big hearted men living next to
nature, above the strife and turmoil, up near the sky, where the stars

shine at night, and where the mountains lift in majesty their
chaste and encircling crest, the counties of Mono and Inyo, led
Masonically by such true men as Judge Murphy and Dr. Doyle;
it means the unfeigned, joyous welcome of Arbogast and Case of
Coats and Moncur and May, and of those brave and hardy mountaineers and mining men of Sierra and Plumas and Nevada counties, that have poured into the open lap of the world the fabled
wealth of Midas; it means traversing timbered heights, and following between jagged walls, tossed and turbulent streams, to the
historic town of Downieville, located on a shelf in the canyon walls,
with its aptly named Mountain Shade Lodge of Masons, here to seize
the outstretched hand of welcome; it means gathering about the
banquet boards with Dye and Clough and Larew and the strong
brave men of Amador and Calaveras, of Tuolumne and Mariposa
counties, within the sound of the falling stamps of quartz mills,
making music, to ears inured thereto, sweeter than the cadences of
falling waters, or the liquid note of the shepherd's lute; it means
Masonic reunions with Leininger and his men, in that ruitful foot·
hill country, more beautiful than the poet's Auburu; our Auuurn,
our rolling, sun colored, rainbow tinted Auburn, our peaceful, picturesque, pleasing Placer County; it means the gatherings. with
Mierson and the Masons of El Dorado County, within the circle of
the halo surrounding the spot where Marshall's magic •discovery
touched the Alladin lamp that made California the El Dorado of the
world, the realization of the dreams of romance; it means the marshaling in mental review of the hosts of good men and true, whom
we have met within ·the sacred precincts of the tyled Lodgeroom, as
well as during the refreshment hour, valiant men under such
valiant leaders as Moffit and Mayhem, Ashley and Dannes, Ball
and Nuttall of the broad counties of Tehama and Butte, Yuba
and Sutter, Gle~n and Colusa, Yolo and Sacramento, forming
the great Sacramento Valley, one of the richest and most
productive in the world, and destined to sustain a population, when
the mighty problem of flood waters shall have been solved, greater
than ever gathered in the Delta of the Nile; it means the fraternal
hand grasp of that other host of dauntless men and Masons with
Anderson, Pottle, Viele and Robinson at their head, from that other
valley on the south, which balances the Sacramento on the north,
and comprising such wonderful counties as San Joaquin, Stanislaus,
Merced, Fresno, Madera, Kings, Tulare and Kern, an empire in itself, possessing the resources of an empire, with untold mineral wealth
in the formations of its rock ribbed .mountain walls, and in its basin,
developing a fertility and richness unmatched by the Euphrates' wondrous wealth; it means standing, in memory beside the blue waters

603

604

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

on a beautiful day in June, with Curtis J. Monroe and the Masons
of Lake County, that land, called in complimen.t to the original, the
Switzerland of America, a gem lustrous in. its matchless settings of
lakes and mountains, uedicating to Masonry and universal benevolence the temple of Hartley Lodge; it means partaking of the hospitality of McNab and his men, as big of h.eart, as is. t?~ .might.y
county of Mendocino, from which they hail, of possibilities; .it
means the recollection of the courteous greetings of Gunn and McDaid
and Watson and the brethren of Sonoma and Napa and Vaca ·valleys, and a~ appreciation of the marvelous .richness ~f th~se soils,
held within the sheltering grasp of verdant vrne clad hills; it means
lingering memories of gracious greetings· from R_odden, and Buttn~r,
and Williamson, and Wight and Gyette, and the Masons of Mann,
and Contra Costa, and Alameda and San Mateo, counties which look
out upon the bay and ocean, favored counties, fronting as thel d?,
the broadest ocean, the fairest, lovliest bay in all the world; it
means- the enthusiastic meetings with the more than seven thousand
Masons of San Francisco, under the inspiring leadership of such
competent and zealous Inspectors as Goldman and Allen and Goldarecena and Gercke and Scalmanini, manifesting loyalty to Masonry,
and loyalty to their city, which notwithstanding the ordeal of eart~­
quake through which it passed, and the visitation under which it
suffered, of flame and fire and civic sin, is yet the best, freest and
best loved city in the world to-day, the young giant of our western
shores, not prone, but standing, and with augment~d virility .and
strength shaking away the dust and embers of the shock: a giant
destined to front rank among the municipalities of the world, and,
as seen by future generations, a community occupying both sides of
the beautiful bay which bears its name·, a community numbering not
merely a million, but a city of five million souls, or more, San Francisco of the futur,e.

ceaseless surf; we discuss humanity, and Masonry, and liberty; we
look across to quaint, historic old Monterey; the past rises before
us, we see unfurled the Bear Flag, emblem of freedom, forerunner
of the Stars and Stripes, and see how California, our California,
empire of the Golden West, was won to the American Union and
to liberty.

During this year of visitation, in memory there rises before me
in Delos W. Smythe 's district, the public and members of the Craft
grouped about the foundation of a projected temple to MasonlJ;",
witnessing the impressive ceremonies of placing the corner st one, and
after the labors of the day are done, we visit the decayed and
crumbling San Juan Bautista Mission, and r ead in the mu~e and
silent dust of an era that is past; we behold the marvelous richness
of the San Benito and Santa Clara Valleys and see the fragrant
oceans of billowy pink and white, foretelling the exhuberance of the
harvest that is to come.
We stand with Inspector Charles K. Tuttle amid the brethren
at Santa Cruz, within sound of the restless sea, and its ever beating,

605

And then we see ~ssembled in the beautiful Santa Maria Valley,
in gala day attire, the Masons and their friends of Adam Brown's
district, to lend joy by their glad presence, to the occasion of the
dedication to humanity and vjrtue, of a completed Masonic temple;
we go back, in memory, to the top of Santa M:arguerita, and look
off upon San Luis Obispo, and that great district, with its mountain
slopes, its plains and fertile valleys, rolling and rising and undulating, and finally melting far away into the blended azure of the
hills and sky. We behold populous towns and villages, clustering
within the hollows of verdant slopes, we contemplate the privileges
which they enjoy, schools and churches, civil and religious freedom,
and societies based upon fraternity and brotherhood; we reverently
uncover, and in the silence almost think we hear Jehovah's voice,
saying, as when creation's work was done: "Behold, how good
it is."
And now there float in upon our senses the first suggestive odors
of the south land, as warm hands are outstretched in fraternal greetings at Santa Barbara and Ventura, favored lands, bathed in the
balmy breath of soft and smiling seas, lands of hill and vale, of figs
and fruits, of trailing vines and flowers, home of the olive, fabled
in the ancient world as Goddess Athena's greatest gift to h er loyal,
loving Greeks; home of brave, strong men, true and earnest Masons,
marshaled under Inspector Reese.
The magician's wand is passed before our mental view:, and we
stand beneath our blue skyed southern realm; we are greetecl by
the representatives of the nearly forty chartered Lodges of the
county and city of Los Angeles, under such exceedingly capable
Inspectors as Weller and Brown, and Bean, and Test, and Ce.ve, and
Dewey, and Garthside; the most aggressively zealous Me.sonic section of our State, partaking of and manifesting that dominant,
courageous, progressive militant spirit that has made, in recent years,
the southern metropolis of our State the wonder of the world. In
our prophetic eye, we see a city full and rounded upon the scale now
planned, more magnificent the.n ever ancient Rome, a city with brqad
and spacious parks, and pleasure grounds limitless and free, and
shaded boulevards, reaching to the sea; from the peaks which pierce
the clouds forty leagues away, aqueducts in unfailing flow, bring

606

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF C.UJFORNI.A.

to the city's gates the mountains melted snow; the arteries of trade
and traffic throb with world wide commerce; the city of harmony
and hope, of boundless destiny a!!-d promise; Los Angeles that is to
come; and then we stand with Frith and Krick and other Inspectors and our Masonic legions of that wonder land, am.id the scented
orange groves of Los Angeles, San Bernardino, Riverside and Orange
counties, our senses tell us .of the loveliness and beauty · and resources of that garden spot; we contemplate its unmeasured latent·
wealth, and exclaim, ''this is indeed the marvelous, enchanted Southland. ''
Onward, still, our footsteps lead, and we see that gentle soul,
Brother Eli T. Blackmer, since passed to his reward, joined by the
Masons of his district, extending to us the hand of friendship, bidding welcome to that wonderful county of San Diego, sphinx like
in the mysteries of its bidden, untold, unde~eloped wealth.
And finally, my friends, in memory there rises before me the
picture of those soft Hawaiian Isles, springing out of the bosom of
the boundless deep, verdure clad, silent sentinels of the sea; ·those
far away guards of our western world, where stood for more than
fifty years, under California's jurisdiction, the outpost .o f American
Masonry, old Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21. I look again, I see gathered
to receive me, Tucker and Spaulding, and Hair and Bon and McKay.
I feel the warmth and genuineness of their welcome. I participate.
in the overflowing measure of kindness and courtesy extended to me;
I see and feel it all, and the recollection of that visit will always
remain with me as a delightful, delicious memory. We have met
Masons in every district of California, but we have met no better;
truer or more loyal California Masons than those who greeted us in
that sequestered Eden of the Pacific.

CONCLUSION.

THE GRAND LODGE.
This is what our year of visitation has meant to us; it has
emphasized to our mind what we imperfectly appreciated before, the .
greatness and wonder of California, the magnificenee of California
Masonry, and the splendor of our superb strength, gatbued here in
this grand and sui:reme Masonic body of our mighty State.
The spectrum separates a beam of sunshine into its component
parts, individually of varying degrees of brilliancy and beauty, yet
each, so intimately dependent the one upon the other, a:s to necessitate the complete and harmonious union of all t~ produce a .r ay
of light; so of our organization: the harmonious blending of all our
factors and forces, of Lodges, of officers, of individuals, combinll
to give us the one unclouded flood of light, the Grand Lodge, Free
and Accepted Masons of California.

607 .

Only a word remains:
"Keep on striving" is the secret of success in life. What has
be:n done moves rapidly. into the region of the past. The brightest
shield, neglected, soon gathers rust, and the fairest memories of
worthy deeds are soon forgotten in the shadows of subsequent sloth
and abandoned ambition. Memories are treasures of the soul to
bri:qg com.fort and consolation in moments of reverie and reflection
but memories do not win battles, and neither individuals nor na'.
tions, nor institutions, can live on memories, but as inspiration to
stronger effort, ·and to point the way to other victories memories
are of priceless value.
'
The keynote of the past century bas been evolution and this is
the d~min~nt note of the present hour. The cardinal 'principle of
evolut10n is struggle--struggle for life, the survival of the. fittestor, as has been indicated by an · eminent thinker, in a farther and just
as t~ue. a sense, struggle ~or the life of others; in any event, struggle is inseparable from life, and is the very manifestation thereof
it is the st~mu~ant .of the race, ~nd the cessation of combat, of struggl~
and of aspirat10n, is the cessation of life itself.
Forward was the watchword of creation when, "In the begin-·
ning God created the heaven and the earth, and the earth was without
form and void, and darkness was upon the face of the deep.''
Forward has been the watc.h word of the world ever since, and is
the watchword of success to-day, in every undertaking of life; and
. Forwar~, awa~en~d by a <lesire for light and truth, by a conception of the ideal, inspired by love of humanity and enforced by undeviating purpose, will ever continue to be the watchword of the
human ra~e, so long as man shall live upon the earth, so long as he
shall be mflueneed by ambition and hope, and so long as he shall
strive to gain the standard of HIGHER THINGS.
EDWARD H. HART,
Grand Master of Masons of California.

Which was referred to a special committee of five, and
the Deputy Grand Master named the following brethren to
constitute such committee ~
Jacob Nieto,
William F. Pierce
On Address of Grand Master ......... William P. Filme;,
{ Alonzo J. Monroe,
George F. Rodden.

608

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

And, on motion, which was unanimously adopted by a
rising vote, the thanks of Grand Lodge· was tendered our
M:.w:. Grand Master, and 4000 copies of his address
ordered printed for distribution.

The letters of authorization to the two officers above name·d,
with their several reports, are herewith submitted.
"Jewel" Lodge, No. 374, at San Francisco, "Richmond" Lodge,
No. 375, at San Francisco, and "Francis Drake" Lodge, No. 376, at
South San Francisco, were constituted by the M:. w:. Edward H.
Hart, Grand Master.

The Grand Secretary presented his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge as foHows :
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned submits this, his seventeenth annual report, presenting, in accordance with a direction in our Constitution, such transliCtions of his office during the year as should necessitate action by
the Grand Lodge, or as may be of interest to its officers and members.
I
On January 19th last, seventeen hundred copies of the Journal
of the Proceedings were distributed, or reserved for ·future bin'd ing,
in the customary manner, and on March 2d a copy of the Roster of
Lodges was forwarded to each Lodge, Grand Officer and Inspector in
the jurisdiction.
The proceedings of the various Grand Lodges with whom we are
in correspondence have been received, and are still in the h.a nds of
the Grand Secretary.
Since the last annual report, commissions to Representatives of
our Grand Lodge near other Grand Lodges have, by direction of the
Grand Master, been issue·d as follows:
On the seventh day of November, 1906, to the w:. Andrew
J. Corsa, near the Grand Lodge of New York.
On the eleventh day of December, 1906, to the w:. Palmer
Howe Charlock, near the Grand Lodge of New Jersey.
On the fifteenth day of April, 1907, to the w:. William Easton
Hutchison, near the Grand Lodge of Kansas, and
On the thirty-first day of May, 1907, to the w:. John Gifford,_
near the Grand Lodge of Washington.
The ten Lodges to which charters were granted at the last Annual
Communication were, in due season, properly constitute"d; seven by
deputies specially appointed, as follows:
"Gardena" Lodge, No. 372, at Gardena; "Fillmore" Lodge,
No. 379, at Fillmore; "Huntington Beach" Lodge, No. 380, and
"Oceanside" Lodge, No. 381, at Oceanside, by the R.°. w:. Oscar
Lawler, Junior Grand Warden.
"Veteran" Lodge, No. 373, at Sawtelle; "Artesia" Lodge,
No. 377, at Artesia, and "Mizpah" Lodge, No. 378, at Los Angeles,
by the M:. w:. Motley H. Flint, Past Grand Master.

609

Since the last Annual Communication, dispensations for the
formation of eight new Lodges have, by direction of the Grand
Master, been issued from this office, as follows:
4, 1906--To "Highland Park" Lodge, at Los Angeles, Los
Angeles County;
Nov. 23, 1906--To "Orosi" Lodge, at Orosi, Tulare County;
Dec. 14, 1906--To "El Centro" Lodge, at El Centro, San Diego
County;
Feb. 19, 1907-To "Corregidor" Lodge, at Manila, Philippine Isl.;
Feb. 19, 1907-To "Dinuba" Lodge, at Dinuba, Tulare County;
Mar. 1, 1907-To "Coalinga" Lodge, at Coalinga, Tulare County;
Mar. 30, 1907-To "Parnassus" Lodge, at San Francisco, San Francisco ·county, and
July 26, 1907-To "Palos Verdes" Lodge, at Long Beach, Los Angeles County.
The pet~tions for the foregoing dispensations, with the certificates
of withdrawal of the several petitioners from the Lodges of which
they had last been members, and the necessary certificates as to the
qualifications of the Masters and 1fardens proposed, were all correctly
prepared and presented; and they are herewith submitted, together
with the returned dispensations and books of record and the petitions
of the new Lodges to be perpetuated by charter.
Oct.

On October 31, 1891, the undersigned presented his :first report
to this Gran·d Body, as its Grand Secretary; it is there recorded that,
at that time there were two hundred and forty-seven chartered Lodges
in the jurisdiction and six Lodges under dispensation, with a total
membership of sixteen thousand two hundred and sixty-two ; he now
reports three hundred and seven chartered Lodges and eight under
dispensation, with a total membership of thirty-six thousand one hundred and twenty-six.
New charters (duplicates) have, by order of the Grand Master,
been issued as follows:
October
October

16, 1906-"Fidelity" Lodge, No. 120;
16, 1906--"Doric" Lodge, No. 216;

611

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

27, 1906--'' Geo. Washington'' Lodge, No. 62;
October
27, 1906-"Excelsior" Lodge, No. 166;
October
30, 1906-" Oriental" Lodge, No. 144;
October
November 16, 1906--"Herman" ·Lodge, No. 12.7;
December 8, 1906--" La Parfaite Union" Lodge, No. 17;
March
11, 1907-"Speran~a Italiana" Lodge, No .. 219, and
May
13, 1907-"Pacific" Lodge, No. 136, in lieu of the
originals, which had been destroyed by fire, and on May 14, 1907,
to "North Star" Lodge, No. 91, which, as stated in the petition,
had been ''destroyed by some malicious person.''
The transcripts of trial records, unaccompanied by notices of
appeal, which have been received at this office since the last ~nnual
Communication-all which have been placed in the hands of the
Chairman of the Commit.tee on Grievances-are as follows: From
''Truckee'' Lodge, No. 200, Barton Willard Johnson, expelled,
September 12, 1906.
"Vacaville" Lodge, No. 134, John James Hagerty, suspen'd ed
September 28, 1906.
''Berkeley'' Lodge, No. 363, Herschel Vespucian Johnson Swain,
expelled November 3, 1906.
"Welcome ' ' Lodge, No. 255, John Marshal Atkisson, suspended.
November 24, 1906;
"Fresno" Lodge, No. 247, George Michael Dwyer, ·expelled February 22, 1907.
''Chico'' Lodge, No. 111, Robert Emil Goeritz, expelled February 23, 1907;
"Mendocino" Lodge, No. 179, Stimulous Miles Loveland, suspended March 23, 1907.
"Suisun;' Loclge, No. 55, Charles McGill Figeley, expelled March
23, 1907.
"Palestine" Lodge, No. 351, Robert Andrew Lin·dsay, expelled
April" 2, 1907.
" Salinas " Lodge, No. 204, John W endle Rowling, expelled April
19, 1907.
"Phoenix" Lodge, No. 178, N<:>rman Alexander Bailie (of "Sai;i
Bernadino" Lodge, No. 348), expelled June 3, 1907.
"Manila" Lodge, No. 342, Hugh Spencer Breszee, expelled June

"Sisson" Lodge, No. 310, Charles Watson Coggins, expelled
July 13, 1907.
''Hartley;'' Lodge, No. 199, Andrew Bullium Olsen, suspended
July 20, 1907.
"Santa Cruz" Lodge, No. 38, Richard William Drum, suspended
August 19, 1907.
.
Transcripts of similar record, accompanied by notices of appeal,
have been received and transmitted to that committee from
"California" Lodge, No. 1, Harry Joseph Lask (of "Excelsior"
Lo·d ge, No. 166), expelled May 2, 1907.
"King David's" Lodge, No. 209, Walter Wiley Bradford, expelled June 5, 1907.
"San Bernardino" Lodge, No. 348, Walter Hubbard (of "Phoenix" Lodge, No. 178), acquitted August 1, 1907.
"Redlands" Lodge, No. 300, Geo. Thayer Greenleaf, expelled Aug.
4, 1907.
A petition for restoration from Joseph Daniel Jourden of Mission
Lodge, No. 169, suspended by Abell Lodge, No. 146, January 5, 1895,
has also been received and transmitted to that committee.
Of the proposed amendments to the By-Laws of Lodges which
have been received, the approval of the Grand Master in thirty-six
cases has been filed in this office. Of these, thirteen being from
Lodges Nos. 38, 123, 193, 200, 224, 226, 269, 279, 309, 310, 313, 328, 363,
and 380, proposed changes in time for stated meetings; nine being
from Lodges Nos. 35, 38, 61, 104, 147, 193, 215, 268, 335, 360, and 375,
proposed to increase the fee for the degrees; nine being from Lodges
Nos. 1, 30, 35, 44, 181, 248, 320, 324, and 364, proposed adopting the
life membership system; three beihg from Lodges Nos. 78, 161, and
287, proposed increasing dues; one being from Lodge No. 320, proposed
creating an affiliation fee; one being from Lodge No. 248, proposed
decreasing dues, and one from Lodge No. 209, proposed decreasing
fee for degrees.
The approval or disapproval of the Grand Master being but
temporary, the foregoing amendments, as required by our laws, have
been placed in the hands of the Chairman of the Committee on ByLa ws of Lodges, and will be submitted to the Grand Lodge for final
action, as have the books of By-Laws of the Lodges now working
under dispensation.
At the last Annual Communication, the surrender of the charter
of "Ionic" Lodge, No. 121, was accepted, and Brother Michael
Lininger, Inspector of the Fourteenth District, was authorized to
wind up its affairs. He reports the collection of dues and payment
of debts and has transmitted to this office the sum of $109.35.

610

4, 1907.
"Benicia" Lodge, No. 5, Howard M. Stearns, expelle·d June 5,
1907.

:p.

612

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFoRNIA.

In accordance with instructions, the undersigned has ascertained
that the pictures of all our Past Grand Masters are obtainable, with
the possible exception of Past Grand Master William H. Howard,
who died in Virginia City, Nevada, September 18, 1866. The search
is still being prosecuted with some hope of ultimate success, and it
might be well to state in this connection that the undersigned is
now in possession of the written assurance from every Grand Body
with which we are in correspondence that a complete set of the procee·d ings of each awaits our order, and will be forwariled when we
arc ready to receive them.
By permission of the Grand Master, "Traver" Lodge, No. 294,
moved to Kingsburg; the only Lodge, the jurisdiction of which could
be effected by the change of location having assented thereto ..
Since the last annual Communication forty special dispensations
for sundry purposes have, by order of the Grand Master, been issued
from this office, as follows:
·
December 4th, 1906-To "Porterville" Lodge, No. 303.
January 2d, 1907-To "Illinoistown" Lodge, No. 51.
January 4th, 1907-To "Anaheim" Lo'dge, No. 207.
January 5th, 1907-To "Fullerton" Lodge, No. 339.
January 7th, 1907-To "Adin" Lodge, No. 250.
January 12th, 1907-To "Alturas" Lodge, No. 248.
February 4th, 1907-To "Mariposa" Lodge, No. 24.
February 4th, 1907-To "Suisun" Lodge, No. 55.
February 4th, 1907-To "Confidence" Lodge, No. 203.
February 4th, 1907-To "San Simeon" Lodge, No. 196.
February 4th, 1907-To "Hiram" Lodge, No. 43.
February 13th, 1907-To "Clear Lake" Lodge, No. 183.
March 6th, 1907-To "Emmanuel" Lodge, No. 318.
March 26th, 1907-To "Ophir" Lodge, No. 33.
May 6th, 1907-To "Snow Mountain" Lodge, No. 271.
/
July 1st, 1907, to "Santa Lucia" Lodge, No. 302, to elect officers at a time other than that provided in our law.
February 4th, 1907-To "Eureka" Lodge, No. 16.
February 4th, 1907-To "Volcano" Lodge, No. 56.
February 4th, 1907-To "Santa Cruz" Lodge, No. 38.
February 7th, 1907-To "Hope" Lodge, No. 234.
February 7th, 1907-To "Calaveras" Lodge, No. 78.
March 2d, 1907-To "Cavite" Lodge, No. 350.
March 9th, 1907-To "Highland Park" Lodge, U. D.
March 14th, 1907-To "Franklin" Lodge, No. 143.
March 22d, 1907-To "Galt" Lodge, No. 267.

613

April 23d, 1907-To "Rose's Bar" Lodge, No. 89, to fill vacancies.
October. 2pth, 1906-To "Starr King" Lodge, No. 344.
October 25th, 1906-To "San Francisco" Lodge, No. 360.
November 8th, 1906-To ''San Bernardino'' Lofjge, No. 348,
November 15th; 1906-To "Lns Angeles" Lodge, No. 42.
February 4th, 1907-Jo "Abell" Lodge, No. 146.
February 4th, 1907-To "San Francisco" Lodge, No. 360.
February 4th, 1907-To "Occidental" Lodge, No. 22.
February 19th, 1907-To "Silver Gate" Lodge, No. 296.
March 22d, 1907-To "Doric" Lodge, No. 216.
April 4th, 1907-To "Hermann" Lodge, No. 127.
July 2d, 1907-To "Bear Mountain" Lodge, No. 76.
July 23d, 1907-To "Tehachapi" Lodge, No. 313.
July 24th, 1907-To "Doric" Lodge, No. 216.
August 16th, 1907-To "Oriental" Lodge, No. 144.
September 14th, 1907-To "Jewel'' Lodge, No. 374, to re-ballot
upon the petitions of rejected can·d idates for the degrees.
All which papers have been placed in the hands of the Chairman
of the Committee on Jurisprudence.

4

There have also been 'r eceived and transmitted to that Committee:
A communication from the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan Prov.
'
mce
of Saskatchewan, Dominion of Canada, requesting the recognition of this Grand Lodge and an interchange of Representatives.
A handsomely engrossed copy of resolutions adopted by the Grand
Lodge of Washington, at its Annual Communication, June, 1907, in
sympathy with the avowed purpose of the Peace Conference at The
Hague.
A circular from the Grand Lodge of New York with the information that the edict of 1851, of n~n-intercourse with the Grand
Lodge of Hamburg, had been recalled, and that friendly relations
had been resumed with that Gran·d Body.
A petition has been received from "Tuolumne" Lodge, No. 8,
requesting a remission of its Grand Lodge dues for the year just
past, amounting to $293-75, and a request from "Manila" Lodge,
No. 342, that the sum of $350 be appropriated to the Board of Relief
at Manila, both which have been placed in tile hands of the Chairman of the Committee on Finance.
The various registers and account books of this office, the vouchers for the orders drawn upon the Grand Treasurer, the several letter1
books for the year, the files of letters receive·d , and all other papers
ci;mcerning the business of the Grand Lodge, not hereinbefore mentioned, are herewith presented for inspection; as is also an account

614

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
1907.
Feb. 7
Feb. 13
Feb. 19
Feb. 19
Feb. 19
Mar. 1
Mar. 2
Mar. 6
Mar. 7
Mar. 9

of the revenues for the year ending on the thirty-first day of July
last, with the receipts of the Grand Treasurer for the moneys collected by the ·undersigned, as follows:
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand LOdge of California,
for the fiscal year ending on the 31st day of July, 1907:
Home Fund. Gen. Fund.
1906.
Oct. 6 From sundry sourees from Aug. 1,
to this date ....... . ............ $33,769 00 $ 39,480 35
10 00
Oct. 31 Starr King, 344, dis. to re ballot .... .
50 00
Oct. 31 Gardena, 372, fee for charter ...... .
50 00
Oct. 31 Jewel, 374, fee for charter ... ..... .
50 00
Oct. 31 Richmond, 375, fee for charter ..... .
50 00
Oct. 31 Francis Drake, 3 76, fee for charter ..
50 00
Oct. 31 Artesia, 377, fee for charter ....... .
50 00
Oct. 31 Mizpah, 378, fee for charter ....... .
50 00
Fillmore,
379,
fee
for
charter
.....
.
Oct. 31
Oct. 31 Huntington Be/loch, 380, fee for char50 00
ter ..... . ... . .... .. ...... ·. · · · ·
50 00
Oct. 31 Oceanside, 381, fee for charter .....
20 00
Nov. 8 San Bernardino, 348, dis. to reballot
10 00
Nov. 15 Los Angeles, 42, dis. to reballot ... .
75 00
Nov. 23 Orosi, U. D., dis. to form Lodge .... .
10 00
Dec. 4 Porterville, 303, ·d is. to elect officers
75 00
Dec. 14 El Centro, U. D., dis. to form Lodge
1907.
Jan. 2
Jan. 4
Jan. 5
Jan. 7
Jan. 12
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 4
Feb. 7
Feb. 7

Mar. 14
Mar. 22
Mar. 22
Mar. 30
April 4
April 23
May 6

'

July 1
July 2
July 23
July 24
July 26
July 31

Illinoistown, 51, dis. to elect officers
Anaheim, 207, dis. to elect officers ..
Fullerton, 339, dis. to elect officers ..
Adin, 250, dis. to elect officers .... .
Alturas, 248, dis. to elect officers .. .
Abell; 146, dis. to reballot ........•.
Eureka, 16, dis. to fill vacancy ..... .
San Simeon, 196, dis. to elect officers
Hiram, 43, -dis. to elect officers .... .
Occidental, 22, dis. to re ballot ..... .
Confidence, 203, dis. to elect officers ..
Suisun, 55, dis. to fill vacancy .....
Mariposa, 24, dis. to elect officers ..•
San Francisco, 360, dis. to reballot ..
Santa Cmz, 38, ·dis. to elect Sec'y·.. .
Volcano, 56, dis. to fill vacancy .... .
Hope, 234, dis. to fill vacancy .....•.

10 00
10 _00
10 00,
10 00
10 00
. 10 00
10 00
10 00
10 00
20 00
10 00
10 00
10 00
10 00
10 00
10 oo·
10 00

July 31
July 31
July 31
July 31
July 31
July 31
July 31
July 31
July 31

615

Home Fund. .Gen. Fund.
Calaveras, 78, dis. to fill vacancy. . .
10 00
Clear Lake, 183, dis. to fill vacancy. .
10 00
Corregidor, U. D., dis. to form Lodge
75 00
Dinuba, U. D., dis. to form Lodge. . .
75 00
Silver Gate, 276, dis. to non-resident
10 00
Coalinga, U . D., dis. to open Lodge..
75 00
Cavite, 350, dis. to- fill vacancy. . . . .
10 00
Emmanuel, 318, dis. to elect officers.
10 00
Ophir, 33, dis. to elect officers......
10 00
Highland Park, U. D., dis. to elect
Junior Warden ..... . ..... .... .
10 00
Franklin, 143, ·dis. to elect J. Warden
10 00
Doric, 216, dis. to re ballot ........ .
10 00
Galt, 267, dis. to elect officers . .. .. .
10 00
Parnassus, U. D., dis. to form Lodge
75 00
Hermann, 127, dis. to reballot ..... .
10 00
Rose's Bar, 89, dis. to elect Wardens
10 00
Snow Mountain, 271, dis. to fill vacancy .............. . ......... .
10 00
San ta Lucia, 302, dis. to elect officers
10 00
Bear Mountain, 76, dis. to r~ballot ..
10 00
Tehachapi, 313, dis. to reballot .... .
10 00
Doric, 216, dis. to reballot ........ .
10 00
Palos Verdes, U. D., dis. to form
Lodge ........ ............. . . . .
75 00
Masonic Hall Association, Dividend
No. 115, ins. collected ....... . .. .
17,643 00
Masonic Hall Stock, first payment
on sale of $20 per share ........ .
117,620 00
Masonic Hall Stock, second payment
ou sa~e of $10 per share ........ .
58,810 00
Insurance collected on Regalia .... .
900 00
Extinct Lodges, Received of Brother
Lininger account Ionic, No. 121..
60 00
Diplomas, fees for the year .. . .. •. .
372 00
Manuals, sales for the year ........ .
320 00
Monitors, sales for the year .. ..... , .
295 00
Proceedings, sales for the year ..... .
9 00
Conetitutions, sales for the year . . ..•
1 00

$33,769 00 $236,890 35
Amounting collectively to tae sum of ............ . .. . $270,659 35

616

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Recapitulation.·

Which was ordered to be referred to the same special
committee as that upon the Address of the Grand Master.

· Home Fund. Gen. Fund.
Received for dues on account of the General
Fund to 31st of July, 1907 ............ $
$ 39,480 35
Received for dues on ac~ount of the Home
Fund to 31st of July, 1907, ........ , .. 33,769 00
33,769 00
Rec.eived for dispensation to form new Lodges
600 00
Received for dispensations for sundry purposes
330 00
450 00
Received for charters ordered in 1906 ........ .
17,643 00
Received for dividends on Masonic Hall Stock
176,430 00
Received for sales of Masonic Hall Stock ... .
900 00
Received for insurance on Regalia .. ..... . . . .
60 00
Received for extinct Lodges ..... . .......... .
Received for Diplomas, Manuals, Monitors,
997 00
Proceedings, Etc. . ......... . ........ .
Making a total amount as above of .................. $270,659 35
Contra.
1906.
Aug. 4
Aug. 9
Aug. 14
Aug. 21
Aug. 31
Sept. 4
Oct.
5
Nov. 19
Dec. 17
1907.
Feb. 25
Mar. 30
July 31

617

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Home Fund. Gen.Fund.
Paid Grand, Treasurer this date .... $ 8,775 00 $ 9,817 05
Paid Grand Treasurer this date .... 7,417 00
8,455 15
7,775 40
Paid u-rand Treasurer this date .. . . 6,492 00
7,557 20
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ... . 6,260 00
17,643 00
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ....
3,058 45
Paid Grand Treasurer this date .... 2,667 00
Paid Grand Treasurer this date .... 2,140 00
2,806 45
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ....
18 00
5l6 10
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ....
117,620. 00
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ....
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ....
Paid Grand Treasurer this date ....

58,810 00
1,420 00
1,411 55

Total Payments to Grand Treasurer ...... $33,769 00 $236,890 35
Making an aggregate amount as above of ..... . ....... . $270,659 35
The returns from all the Lodges in the jurisdiction have been
received and their dues have been paid in full.
Respectfully submitted,
GEO. JOHNSON,
Grand Secretary.

The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge, as follows :
To the M:. w. ·. Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned herewith submits his account of the receipts and
expenditures of the Grand Lodge during the past year.
The Grand Treasurer in account with the Grand Lodge for
the fiscal year ending July 31st, 1907.
RECEIPTS.

1906.
July 31. Balance cash on hand this date, July 31, 1906 ... . . $ 6,595 39
~
Aug. 8. Received from Grand Secretary .•••. $ 9,817 05
"
"
8,455 15
Aug. 11.
Aug. 16.
"
"
7,775 40
"
"
7,557 20
Aug. 22.
"
3,058 45
Sept. 5.
17,643 00
Aug. 31.
2,806 45
Oct. 6.
"
516 10
Dec. 4.
"
117,620 00
Dec. 19.
"
1907.
58,810 00
Feb. 28.
"
"
1,420 00
Mar.30.
"
1,411 55
Aug. 6.
"
236,890 35
1906.
Sept. 15. Received interest on $7,000 Blue Lake
210 00
6% bonds ...................... ,
Mar. 16. Received interest on $7,000 Blue Lake
6% bonds ... , .................. .
210 00
420 00
1907.
Jan. 11. Received interest on $6,000 Southern
120 00
Pacific 4% refunding bonds ...... .
Aug 6. Received interest on $6,000 Southern
120 00
Pacific 4% refunding bonds ...... .
240 00

...

6

618

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFORNIA.

on

Feb. 25. Received interest
deposit with
Union Trust Company .......... : .$
638 56
July 31. Received interest on deposit with
Union Trust Company. ... . ...... . 2,193 24
2,831 80
· Received interest on deposit with A.
Borel & Company ............... .

742 21

Total receipts for year ending July 31st, 1907,
including balance from last year. . . . . . . . . .

$247,719 75

DISBURSEMENTS.
For Account of Salaries of Grand Offiicers.
Paid Grand Treasurer as per voucher No. 200 .. $
200 00
Paid Grand Secretary as per vouchers Nos. 47,
58, 87, 104, 117, 129, 135, 157, 168, 176, 188
and 201 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
3,000 00
Paid Grand Lecturer as per vouchers Nos. 38,
55, 85, 101, 112, 127, 132, 153, 164, 170, 183
and 198 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,200 00
Paid Assistant Grand Secretary as per vouchers
Nos. 46, 57, 86, 103, 116, 128, 133, 154, 165,
174, 184 and 199 ........................ ..
1,750 00
Paid Grand Organist as pe r voucher No. 59 .. .
50 00
Paid Grand Tyler as per voucher No. 67 ...... .
125 00

..

0

7,325 o6
For Account of General Disbursement:
Paid for six Southern Pacific refunding 4%
bonds as per voucher No. 48 .............. $ 5,805 00
Paid L. Wadham, experting Grand Treasurer's
and Grand Secretary's books as per voucher
No. 60 . . . .. . . . . . . .. .. .. . . . .. .. . . .. .. . .. .
100 00
Paid I. Tonningson of Hotel Committee as per
272 00
voucher No. 62 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paid Samuel Morris's dues of George Washington Lodge No. 62, dues remitted as per
voucher No. 63 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
85 80
Paid ]. B. Ruben appropriation to Board of Relief of San Francisco, as per voucher No. 64 3,000 00
Paid Samuel Prager appropriation to Board of
Relief of Los Angeles, as per voucher
No. 65 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000 00

Paid Grand Master Hart contingent expenses
as per voucher No. 68....................
Paid Calvary Church rent for lecture room for
use of Grand Lodge, as per voucher No. 66
Paid Ha.mmersmith & Field for Testimonial to
Past Grand Master Flint, as per voucher
No. 78 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Paid B. Pasquale & Co. for Aprons and regalia
as per voucher No. 89 . . ...... ...... .... . .
Paid H.J. Maxwell premium on bonds of Grand
Treasurer and Grand Secretary, as per
vouchers No. 92, 94 and 191. ............. .
Paid Masonic Widows and Orphans' Home for
report as per voucher No. 108 ............ .
Paid \.Ym. A. Davies, chairman of Committee
on Correspondence, as per voucher No. 114
Paid Wells, Fargo & Company, shipping proceedings of last communication, • as per
vo1,1cher No. 119 ........................ .
Paid Shannon-Conmy Printing Company for
printing proceedings of Grand Lodge 1906,
as per voucher No. 122...................
Paid W. P. Jeffries & Co. for 1,750 copies of
Relief report, as per voucher No. 121. . . . . .
Paid B. Pasquale for regalia for country, as
per voucher No. 138 ..................... .
Paid Jos. Fredericks & Co. for desks and chairs,
as . per voucher No. 139 .................. .
Paid H. S. Crocker & Co. for Addressograph,
as per voucher No. 141. ....... .' ......... .
Paid H. Moller for portrait of Past Grand Master Flint, as per voucher No. 158 ......... .
Paid Masonic Board of Relief of Manilla, as
per vouchers Nos. 159 and 177 ........... .
Paid J. M. Dunsmur, funeral expense for Bro.
Samuel Prager, as per voucher No. 181 ....
Paid S. & G. Gump for frames for three portraits, as per voucher No. 192 . ........... .
Paid Grand Lecturer contingent expenses, as
per vouchers Nos. 54, 100, 111, 131, 163, 169,
182 and 195 .... , ........................ .

1,200 00
150 00

300 00
868 50

185 00
100 00
200 00

86 74

1,055 00
216 84

472 50
66 50
114 39
125 00
350 00
411 60
145 00

795 40

619

620

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$43,408 70 on account of the General Fund and the sum of $36,126 on
account of the Masonic Widows and Orphans Fund.
All which is respectfully submitted,
EDWARD COLEMAN,
Grand Treasurer.

Paid rent and care of office, as per vouchers
Nos. 4S, S6, 84, 88, 102, 113, llS, 12S, 126,
1~1~1~1~1~1~1~1~1~1~

and 197 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
Paid for printing, as per vouchers Nos. 39, 69,
9S, 106, 140, 147, 162, 180 and 189..........
Paid for stationery, as per vouchers Nos. 41, SO,
S1, 82, 96, 97, 124 and 148.................
Paid for Sundry, Roll-call, Pay-roll, Telephone,
Post Office Box and incidental expenses, as
per vouchers Nos. 40, 43, 44, 49, S2, S3, 61,
67, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 7S, 76, 79, 80, 81, 83, 90,
91, 93, 98, 99, lOS, 107, 108, 109, 110, 118,

927 SO
2,642 25

Which report, with the accompanying books and vouchers, were ordered to be referred to the Finance Committee.

1,223 6S

Payments in above report charged to "Printing," "Stationery," Incidentals, &c., include the following:

1~1~1~1~1~1~MZM~1~1~

1SO, 1Sl, 1S2, 160, 161, 171, 172, 178, 18S, 189,
190, 193, 194, 196, 42 and 77. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

621

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

2,467 30
26,36S 97

For Account of Pq;yment of Representatives.
Paid representatives of Lodges, as per pay-roll.$ 4,S12 30
Paid Grand Officers and Chairmen of Com218 20
mittees .. . .............................. .
4S2 30
Paid Inspectors .. . ........................ . . .
S,182 80
Total disbursements for the year ending July
31st, 1907 ............................... .
Balance cash on hand this date, July 31st, 1907.

$ 38,873 77
208,84S 98

Lithographic Stones for Charters and Diplomas.$
600 00
Working Tools and Vessels for corn, wine and
oil . .......... . . .. ...................... .
18S so
:Funeral expenses of Bro. Barton at Masonic
Home ... . . .... . . . .. . .. .. .. . . .. ........ .
46 so
Roster for 1906 ...... . .... . ....... . ......... .
l,19S 00
lSOO copies of the Manual .......... . ......... .
1,080 00
800 Diplomas ........ . ..................... .
680 00
100 Charters · ........ . ......... . ........... .
260 00
Books and Forms to replace those destroyed
by fire .......... . .. . ........ ... ........ .
337 so
1 Copy Press ............. . ........ .. ........ .
10 00
Grand Lodge Seal. .......... . .... . .......... .
20 00
Filing Sections for Returns ...... . . . ......... .
78 00
Expenses E. H. Hart, special meetings ........ .
so 90
Charter Cases .............................. .
21 60
Expressage shipping Roster 1906 ............. .
S7 32
$ 4,622 32

$247,719 7S

The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten- o'clock
tomorrow morning.

The assets of the Grand Lodge consist of:
Cash in Union Trust Company-............ $179,261 80
Cash in A. Borel & Co.'s Bank. . . . . . . . . . . . 29,S84 18
Seven $1,000 Blue Lake 6%. bonds, value ...
Six $1,000 Southern Pacific 4% refunding
bonds, value .......................... .
S,881 shares Masonic Hall Association
stock @ 2Sc ............ . .............. .
Total assets this date, July 31st, 1907 ......... .

208,84S 98
7,700 00

S,280 00
1,470 25
$223,296 23

The Grand Treasurer reports that since closing his books for the
last fiscal year he has received from the Grand Secretary the sum of

,.

622

-GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

623

Which report was concurred in and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
The Grand Secretary, on behalf of the various Masonic
Boards of Relief of the jurisdiction, presented their annual
reports to the Grand Lodge, as follows~·
Morning Session,
Wednesday, October 9th, A. L. 5907.

l

S

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten ·o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
Bro. William J. Golcher, chairman of the Committee on
Credentials, reported the following additional officers of
chartered Lodges and Past Masters by service within this
jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz: from
California ....... No. 1.. FRANCIS V. Kt:ESLING,°Senior Warden.
Tehama ......... No. 3 .. J. E. THOMPSON, Past Master.
Corinthian . ... . . No. 9. . CHARLES F. METTEER, Senior Warden:
Yount .......... . No. 12 . JELMl!R L. B1cKFJORD: MWasterd.
lJAMES MASON, umor

ar en.

Occidental
. . No. 22 .. SAMUEL H. CLAWSON, Senior Warden.
Golden. Gate ..... No. 30 .. W. A. T. AcAIID, Past Master.
Santa Cruz ..... . No. 38 .. RALPH J. MATTISON, Senior Warden.
Rose's Bar ...... . No. 89 .. NELSON DICKERMAN, Junior Warden.
Table Mountain . . No. 124 . . JoHN E. WJ!LLS, Senior Warden.
Alameda ....... . No. 167 .. 0. L. SouTHWICK, Past Master.
Redwood City .... No. 168 .. FRANK K. TowNJ!, Master.
Marin ......... . No. 191 .. HENRY GREER, Master.
Mountain View .. No. 194 .. HAUKEN TRuLSEN, Master and Past Master
Truckee ........ . No. 200 .• H. W. WILMOTH, Past Master and Rep'tive
Pentalpha ...... . No. 202 .. p. F. HUGHES, Past Master.
( G. Q. STEWART, Past Master.

Stanislaus· .•.... . No. 206 .• ROBERT CRAIG, Senior Warden.
Brooklyn ....... . No. 225., G.D. WARRl!N, Past Master.
Solano ......... . No. 229 .. THOMAS B. D1cK, Junior Warden.
Alcatraz ........ . No. 244 .. W. K. SANBORN, Past Master.
Galt ........... . No. 267 •. S. C. MCCLAUGHRY, Past Master and Rep.
McKinley ...... . No. 347 .. J.M. MORRISON, Past Master.
Charity ........ . No. 362 .. J. J. CORNELL, Past Master.

SAN FRANCISCO.
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California, and the Officers and
Members of the Twenty-two Lodges of San Francisco, parties to
the compact:The undersigned beg leave to present the annual report of the
Masonic Board of Relief of San Francisco for the year commencing on
the first day of October, 1906, and ending on the thirtieth day o_f September, 1907.
Since the date of our last report the Lodges of the city of San
Francisco have been represented in the Board of Relief by their Masters
or Delegates.
The receipts for the year were as follows:

From Assessments upon the City Lodges.
California,
No. 1.... . ......•.............. . .... $ 302 55
Parfaite Union,
17 ... . ..... ..•..................
63 05
Occidental,
22 .............................. . 266 30
30 .............................. . 212 35
Golden Gate,
M otlnt Moriah,
44 ..........•.................. . . 156 70
... 120 ......... . ...........•.•....... 221 90
Fidelity,
Hermann,
" 127 . . . ......................... . . .
87 55
Pacific,
.. 136 .......................... . ... . 249 70
" 139 .. .. . . .... . ............. . . . ... . 162 95
Crockett,
" 144 .......... . ............... ... . . 171 65
Oriental
Exc-elsior,
" 166 .......................•....... 205 55
\,fission,
" 169 ..... .. ....................... . 408 6('
81 2(l
South San Francisco, " 212 .....................•. . .......
.. 216 . . ..•.... . .......... . .. .. ..... . 195 40
Doric,
75 oo·
Esperanza ltaliana,
" 219 .. .... . . . . ....... ... ........ . . .
King Solomon'.r,
" 260 ......... . . . .. . ............... . 246 55
Starr King,
" 344 ........ ... ................... .
83 00
Presidio,
" 354 ............................... .
68 90
San Francisco,
" 360 .•.....•••••..•....••••••.•.••••
70 05
Amity,
" 370 ...••.................•.. . . . ...
4<\ 40
Jewel.
" 374 . ....... . ..... . ........ . .. . ... .
19 80
.. 375 ..... . . . .... .. . . .............. .
Richmond,
30 05
Receipts from city Lodges ........ . .. . .... . ...... .. . . . . ...... $3,419 20

624

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND. LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA.

From amounts refunded by sundry Lodges· an<:l brethren . ... . 8,196 73
dividends German Savings and Loan Society ......... .
133 00
" dividends Johnson's Bequest Fund .................. .
437 70
appropriation Grand Lodge ...................... ... . 3,000 00
" surplus last report ·....................... : ......... . 4,111 48
Receipts from all sources ...................... : ...... : .$19,298 11
The disbursements for the year were as follows :
For the relief of sick and needy brethren, their wives, widows
and orphans ............................. $11,013 13
sundry unclassed, prescriptions, physicians'
"
fees, etc . .. ............... . , •.......... : .
395 90
Disbursement for charities ................................. $11,409 03
Board of Relief, rent, purchase of furniture, salaries, etc.... 2,881 90
"
expenses of delegate to the Massachusetts
Relief Association of the United States and
Canada at Louisville, Ky. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
225 00
Total expenditure for the year ............ . .............. . .. $14,515 93
Leaving a surplus September 30th, 1907, of... . . . . . . . . . . . 4,782 18
$19,298 11
The following brethren have been buried with Masonic Honors
under the auspices of this Board: ·
1906.
No. 384 .. Ohio.
Oct. 2.. H. P. Hirth . ....... Cardington,
Oct. 14 .. Robert T. Gentry .. Sedalla,
" 236 .. Missouri.
95 .. California.
Oct. 14 .. Chas. H. Peterson .. Henry Clay,
Nov. 12 .. Julius Bauman ..... Tuolumne,
8 .. California.
Nov. 25 .. Harry Kind ........ Eureka,
16 .. Nevada.
19 .. D. C.
Nov. 28 .. P. M. Erichsen ..... La Fayette,
Dec. 13 .. Monroe Barnes ..... St. John's,
1..New York.
87 . . California.
Dec. 14 .. Frank J. Campbell.Naval,
Dec. 30 .. Michael Jacobs . .... Zerubabbel,
" 329 .. New York, unatDJ:
1907.
91. . Michigan.
Jan. 4.. Sydney Lacey ... . . . Ashlar,
Jan. 6.. A. R. Clary ......... Hanford,
279 .. California.
16 .. California.
Jan. 7.. Wm. Thos. Wood .. Eureka,
304 .. California.
Jan. 18 .. Ernst E. Oulevy ... Reedley,
65 .. California.
Mar. 12 .. Peter Reichling .... Amador,
13 .. 0regon.
Mar. 20 .. Morris Caro ........ Laurel,
46 .. Colorado.
Mar. 26 .. Wm. H. Henderson.Durango,
68 .. California.
Mar. 27 . . S. K. Jones ........ Morning Star,
' 168 .. California.
April 24 .. August Holtz .. ... . Gibsonville,
" 277 . . California.
May 10 . . Sam Lewald ....... Selma,

625

May 15 .. John H. Rlley ...... Lassen,
No. 149 .. California.
May 18 .. Hllarey Silvey ..... Boone,
9.. Indiana.
May 24 .. Joseph Guptill ..... Bay City,
" 102 .. Oregon.
45 .. New Jersey.
June 5.. Thomas Black ...... Benevolent,
June 15 .. Alex'nder G. Smith.St. John Operative, " 347.. Scotland.
81. .Ohio.
June 30 .. Wm. T. :porter ..... La Fayette,
July 16 .. John Mondon ....... Albert Edward,
" 692 .. Scotland.
July 18 .. Wm. M. Richards .. McKinley,
" 347 .. California.
July 28 .. J. D. Hill .......... Alamo,
" 122 .. California.
Aug. 19 .. Jas. H. Llttlejohn .. Phoenlx,
" 178 .. California.
" 296 .. Ohio.
Sept. 27 .. F. F. Frazier ....... Ithaca,
also
May 10 .. 0. R. Bush, wife and son, Reed City, " 363 .. Michigan.
Unfortunate victims of an Insane person.
and
Sept. 5 .. Mrs. Harriet Brown. Fanklln,
4.. Vermont.
3•. California.
Sept. 14 •• Mrs. A. Shepard .... Tehama,
Respectfully submitted,

M. M. GtTz, Chairman.
]. B. Rul(llEN, Secretary.

w:.

In addition to the foregoing report, the M.".
Grand Master
transferred $2,000 to this Board on September 4th from the General
Funds in his charge for the purpose of relieving sufferers from the late
calamity. Of this amount $661 50 have been expended, leaving still a
balance of $1,338 50 on hand.
A close and careful study of the conditions surrounding the poor
unfortunates of the la~e disaster gives convincing proof that the amount
set aside for the purpose of their relief is entirely inadequate to cover
the demands to be made upon it within the very near future.
The depression in business and the local labor and political disturbances have caused many of our brethren to look for assistance. Especially is this the case with professional men who faithfully expected to
outlive their misfortune under ordinary, prosperous conditions.
The rainy season, now rapidly approaching, will add another
misery to those of our brethren inhabiting refugee cottages, many of
which are in need of repair at no little expense.
As the funds of the General Board of Relief are now exhausted, the
matter of assisting the sufferers of the late calamity will fall upon the
local Board and a year of exceptionally large demands upon its funds is
·
confidently expected.
Respectfully submitted,
J. B. Rm:BEN, Secretary.

626

PROCEEDINGs OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA.

LOS ANGELES. .

Henry Debasco McCabe,
Palestine ...... . . . ..... .N,o. 351 .. Thomas Joseph McDonald,
{ Samuel H. Gowan.
·

To the 1lf.". w:. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
California, and Subordinate Lodges of the City of Los Angeles
California.
·
'·

{Samuel Edgerton Burke,
.
Sunset . ..... . . . ... .. . . No. 352 . . Charles Henry Bridges,
Ralph A. Chase.

DEAR SIRS AND BROTHERS-The Masonic Board of Relief of the
City of Los Angeles, herewith presents the following Report of its
labors from September !st, 1906, to August 31st, 1907.

George Walter Tedford,
Golden State ........... No. 358 .. John George Morley;
{ John Hill Bean.

OFFICERS:
President. ...... .. .... Bro. SAMUl!:L PRAGER.
Vice-President... . .. . . " JOHN HILL BEAN.
Treasurer.. . . . . . . . . . . . " MOTLEY HEwEs FLINT.
Secretary ............. " DR. JOHN MARCUS DUNSMOOR.

Los Angeles . .......... No.

Daniel N. Towne,
Gardena ...... . ...... . No. F2 .. Lowry H. West,
{ Alonzo F . Hann.
Charles E . Sebastian,
Miapo.h .............. . No. 378 . . Michael Roy Raftery,
{ George Edward Virgo.

Ashton Albert Wells,
42 .. Leo Wise Barnett,
Samuel Prager (till June, 1907) ,
lSimon Cahen (after June, 1907) .

f

'{ Harry Clifton Knox,
Highland Park . ..... . ... . U. D.. Charles E. Carver,
Fred E. Vincent.

Orville Devere Stone,
Pentalpha . ...... . . . .. . No. 202 . . Herbert Hamilton Clark,
{ Harry Hauschild Mayberry.
Ernest H,enry Greppin,
Southern California . ... No. 278 . . Herbert Lemuel Cornish,
{ Dana Reid Weller.
William Andrew Spalding,
East Gate ........ .. .... No. 290 .. Frank Cannon Mulkey,
{ Motley Hewes Flint.
'{Edward Alonzo Talbot,
Hollenbeck ... . ... . .. . . No. 319 .. Joseph Augustus Smith,
John Marcus Dunsmoor.
John William Kemp,
South Gate .. .. ..... . . . No. 320 .. Kearney Lee Wilcox,
.{ John William Musselman.
'{Leon Curtet,
Vallee de France ... • . . . No. 329 . .' Franz A. Boue'lle,
. Charles Deutsch.
.
:{Herbert Stephen Brown,
West Gate . . ......... . No. 335., Henry Washington Louis,
Walter Herman Auble.

627

,

In glancing over this report it will be observed that the calls for
relief have been far greater this year than heretofore, probably owing to
the continued suffering resultant from the San Francisco disaster of
1906; yet with the general assistance of Past .Grand Master Brother
Motley Hewes Flint, we have been able to weather the storm. Had it
not been for this aid, we would have been several thousand dollars
overdrawn, or the suffering brethren could not have been relieved. As
it was, however, we were able to rent cottages, buy furniture, sewing
machines, tools for mechanics, provisions, clothing, medicine, artificial
limbs, etc., and thus place deserving brethren in position to become
self-supporting. All this costs money, but the recipients do not lose
their manhood and self-respect. This we deem true charity.

MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BuR£Au.
The Masonic Employment Bureau, established sixteen months ago,
has proved a decided success. It has been the means of securing more
than seven hundred positions since its organization. We cannot commend it too highly.
DEATH OF OUR PRESIDJ!:NT.
Saddened, indeed, were the hearts of the members of this Board 'of
Relief when, on the sixth day of Jui~e, 1907, the spirit of our Honored
President, Brother Samuel Prager, "Took its flight to that unknown

j

628

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

world whither our fathers have gone before us." While his death was
not unexpected, it has left a vacancy among us which will be hard to
refill. No words can be more fittingly spoken of him here than the
resolutions adopted by this Board of Relief. They· are as follows :
WHEREAS, No higher recommendation can be given any one than·
that we can truthfully state that our beloved brother was a MAN and A
MASON, and as a Mason he was one to whom the world well knew the
burdened heart could' pour out its sorrows ; one to whom distress could
prefer its suit; one whose hand was guided by justice, and whose heart
was expanded by benevolence.
Brother Samuel Prager was an active worker in the Masonic
Grand Lodge of California for over fifty years, and his loss wiU be
keenly felt by all the breth~en composing that organization, more particularly his kindly face, his genial words of greeting, and his able advice
on all important questions.
WHEREAS, As President for many years of the Masonic Board of
Relief, Brother Prager has relie°ved the distress of thousands of worthy
distressed brethren, their wives, widows and orphans, and in the performance of this duty has devoted practically all of his time for this
true Masonic Charity; listening patiently, and with deep sympathy, to
the sorrows of the widowed and fatherless, and giving wise counsel and
assistance to the distressed brethren, so' that after a life ·o f great usefulness, not only to his beloved home city, but also to our Great Fraternity,
we can and do state in this, our hour of bereavement, "Well done, thou
good and faithful servant."
Be ft Therefore Resolved, That .in the death of Brother Samuel
Prager, the entire Masonic Fraternity, and the City of Los Angeles,
have met with an irreparable loss, and in the Masonic Board of Relief
a vacancy w}tich never can be filled ..
Be It Further Resolved, That to the family. of our deceased friend
and brother dp we express our deep sympathy in this . their hour of
trouble; but we feel that their burden may be lightened by the enduring
monument that Brother Prager has erected on the "sands of time," and
the thought that the world has been better and brighter by the examples
he has set.
Be It Further Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be spread
upon the minutes of the Masonic Board of Relief, and a copy be sent
to the family of Brother Prager.
Fraternally submitted,
}
M. H. FLINT,
D. R. . WELLER,
Committee. ·
ASHTON A. WELLS,

'

SAMUE.L -PRAGER
·1831

..

,1 907

629

,
630

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE.OF CALIFORNIA.

BURIAL RECORD.

bear its fruit and soften the hearts in those jurisdictions which forget
their brethren, their widows and orphans, as soon as they are out of
their sight.

Name

Lodge and Number
Location
Date of Death.
Mrs. C. L. Gorham (wld.).Pt . Jervis, 328 ............ Pt. Jervis, N. Y ... ....... Sept. 13, 1906
Merton Richard Curtis . .. Garretsvllle, 246 •........ Garretsvllle, Ohio ........ Sept. is, 1906
Cyrus E. Rosseter .. ... .. Ashlar, 33 •••.•.•....•.... Grand Island, Neb ....... Sept. 29, 1906
George Gregg . ............ Union, 58 •.• .•••••.....•• Sacramento, Cal. ........ Oct. 18, 1906
Abraham M. Cohn ........ King Solomon, 5 ••. • •.•.• Tombstone, · Ariz. , ....... Nov. 2, 1906
Thomas Pease ........... Doric, 25 .........•.•••.• Fair Play, Col. .... ...... . Nov. 2, 1906
Chas. D. McDonald .... . .. Oswegatchie, 687 •••••••• Fine, N. Y ................ Nov. 3, 1906
Christopher Radulovlch .. Western Star, 2 .......... Shasta, Cal .. : .... 1 . . . . : .. Nov. 26, 1906
Samuel Barker .......... Pepin, 89 .....•. • •••••••• Pepin, Wis .......... . .... Nov. 28, 1906
Oren E. Swick ........ .. .. Hesperia, 411 .. .... ...... Chicago, DI. ... : .......... Nov. 30, 1906
William Cowley ........• Eddyville, 74 ••••••••••••• Eddyville, Iowa .. : ....... Dec. 16, 1906
Leonard McGlashan . ..... N1agara Falls, - , . , , ... ,Niagara Falls, Ont., Can.. Jan. 4, 1907
P . A. Wood (son age 17). Wellington, 160 ..........Wellington, Kan ..... ..... . Jan. 9, 1907
David Miles Hansllp .. ,, .. Reed, - . . ... ............ Evansville, Ind ........... Jan. 10, 1901
Howard Thomas Hays: .. Evergreen, 259 .......... Riverside, Cal ... ... ...... Jan. 11, 1907
Henry F. Horn ......... , .. Topeka, 17 . ... ........... Topeka, Kan ............. Feb. 13, 1907
Milton Benj. Wood .... -..Tlpton, 378 .............. Tipton, Ohio ............ Feb. 15, 1907
Daniel Koehnlcsteln. •'• " .Mosalc, 66 •• • .••••• , , •••• Norfolk, Neb ... .. ·, .. . .... Mar. 6, 1907
James Dean Wilder .. ..,, .Oshkosh, 27 •••.•.•.••• , •• Oshkosh, Wis .... , ....... Mar. 18, 1907
Oscar L. Keep .. ...•.. .• . Lotus, 31 •••.•••••••••• ,,New York, N. Y .......... Mar. 23, 1907
Peter Hambrecht ..... ,.Concordia, 346 .. .. ........ Cleveland, Ohio .......... Mar. 28, 1907
Thoe. Brennan ......• '"' .Halley, - . .... .. , ....... Halley, Idaho .... ..... .. Aprll 9, 1907
Henry Eckert, Jr ........ . Scotland, 62 ............ Scotland, S. Dak .... .... . Aprll 23, 1907
John W . Heath ........... Fielding, 192 • , , ••• .• .• • , •. So. Charleston, Ohfo ...... April 23, 1907
Wm. W. Craddlck .....•.. Oriental, 61 ••••••.•.••..• Knoxville, Iowa ..•....... May 13, 1907
Geo. H . Balley, M. D ..... Yuma. 17 ••••••••••••••• Yuma, Ariz ..... .. •.. .. .. . May 22, 1907
Emery T . Green .......... Franklin, 4 ........ . ...... St. Albans, Vt ............ May 26, 1907
Otis Harten Wescott . . .,.,California, 1 ............. San Francisco, Cal. .... .. .Tune 3, 1907
Wm. Lyon Daniel. .... .. . . Pacific, 136 . ...... . .. ... . San Francisco, Cal ....... June 7, 1907
Wm. Taylor ... ... ... ,\ .. Tucson, 4 ................ Tucson, Ariz ............. June 22, 1907
Wm. H. Henderson .... .. A.nahelm, 207 .. .. ......... Anaheim, Cal. ...... ...... June 23, 1907
Max Nickel ......... . , y . . Newton, 142 ............. Newton, Kan ........ .... June 23, 1907
Robt. Black .. . . .. ..• , , . , Torreon, 8 ••••••••••••• , •Torreon, Mexico ....... ... June 30, 1907
James G. Blakeley .... -. •• Doric, 342 ............... Grand Rapids, Mich . ... .. July 10, 1907
Chas . . Wm. Balke .. .. , .. ,Clinton, 648 .............. Clinton, Mo ..... . . . ...... July 29, 1907
Mary Pritchard ......... Commonwealth, - ....... Brooklyn, N. Y ...... ...... Aug. 16, 1907
Lewis W. Barton ........ California, 183 ........... Ce.lltornla, Mo .......... .. . Aug. 17, 1907
Harry Clark .......... ,·.-Chan11lor Walworth, 271. . N'ew York, N. Y ......... . Aug. 24, 1907
I

.

We are sor~y to note that some jurisdictions seem to consider that
they are under no obligation to relieve the distress of their members
when they go beyond their threshhold, and even decline to reimburse a
sister Lodge or Board of Relief for aid extended in emergency cases.
Perhaps they do not realize the vast number of calls upon the Fraternity
on the Pacific Coast, and especially in Southern California, which is
undoubtedly the Hospital for the world.
I publish herein a letter or two, which are on file with this Board
of Relief, which show different Fraternal feelings in two jurisdictions
with the hope that the TRUI! Fraternal spirit manifested in the one, may

631

(Copy of Letters.)
ORANG!! LoDGI!, No. 14, F. & A. M.
CHARLESTON, S. C., March 8th, 5907.
Dr. ! . M . Dunsmoor, Los Angeles, Cal.
Dl!AR SIR : You will fin.d enclosed a copy of a letter written me by
our W.". M.". which speaks for itself, and 'by which I shall be guided
in future.
Yours Fraternally,
I'oN L. RHETT.
P . S.-1 am sending you the draft for this month, as I take it you
have probably advanced her the money already, but hereafter will send
direct.

I. L. R.
(The Worshipful -~foster's Letter.)
CHARLESTON, S. C., March 7th, 5907.
Dl!AR BROTHER RHETT: Yours enclosing statement from Dr. J. M.
Dunsmoor has been received. The payments made Mrs. N. on July
13th and September 13th were unauthorized by me, or our Lodge, as
far as I can remember. I have written to Dr. Dunsmoor for information as to his authority but have received no reply. Of course Orange
Lodge wishes to pay all its just debts, but cannot undertake to reimburse the Masonic Fraternity of Los Angeles for money which . their
own generous impulses have prompted them to give to a woman in
distress, and which was charged against our Lodge as an after thought.
Until further notice from me, send $5.00 directly to Mrs. N. on the first
day of each month. Write Dr. Dunsmoor of these instructions. I have
no authority to exceed the amount granted by the Lodge.
The transactions of July 13th, and September 13th, were personal
matters between the Masonic Board of Relief and Mrs. N. They can.
perhaps arrange the matter on a satisfactiory basis.
Very truly,
K. TAT!!,
M.".

w.

w:.

632

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

(Our Reply.)
Los ANGEELES, CAI.., March· 18th, 1907.
Mr. !' on L . Rhett, Secretary Ora1ige Lodge, No. 14, F. & A . M.,
.
Charleston, S. C.
DEAR SIR AND BROTHtR : Yours of March 8th, containing check for
Mrs. N. has been received, and the same has been transmitted to Mrs.
N . I heartily approve of your decision that in the future you will deal
directly with Mrs. N. in person, and not through our Board of Relief.
Our offer ·to act as your agent at this point was only done in the spirit
of true brotherly love and Masonic courtesy. Our advancements to
Mrs. N. were made at a time when the wolf stood at her door; sickness
and destitution were within. We acted as we would have you act
towards one of our worthy members or their families should they be
at your threshold and in like condition, and we would certainly be very
willing and glad to reimburse you for any reasonable outlay which you
might advance to relieve their immediate distress when waiting for a
letter or even a telegram for instructions would increase their distress
and physical suffering. However, as you take the technical point of
view that you did not autho1-i:te the two payments which you specify, our
President directs me to state to you that that account is donated to your
Lodge as a charitable gift from this Board of Relief.
Fraternally yours,
J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

(Letter from San Francisco, Cal.)
OccIDENTAL LoDGE, No. 22, F. & A. M.
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL., March 26th, 1907.
Dr. !. M. Dunsmoor, Secretary.
DEAR SIR AND BROTHER: Your letter of the 19th informing me that
Brother A. was ill with rheumatism and unable to work; that his wife
was also sick, came duly to hand, and I referred it to the Worshipful
Master who ·directs me to say that he would particularly appreciate it
if the Masonic Board of Relief will continue to advance to Brother A.
all in your opinion you consider necessary and just. We know that
this is a very worthy case, as Brother A., some three years ago, was
seriously ill with this same complaint, and at that time we took care of
him and his family and sent him to Arizona where he finally recovered.
Brother A. has endeavored to return some of the money we advanced
to him for the care of his wife and himself at that time,, and has done
all that his means permit, and we are confident that if he had the

GR.A.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNI.A..

633

money he would refund all. We return to you herewith by check the
$~5 you gave to him, and w~uld particularly thank you for relieving his
distress, and would esteem 1t a favor .if. you will. continue to see to the
wants of himself and wife, and upon receipt of :word from you .notifying
us of the amount expended during the month, we will be pleased to mail
you our check. Again permit me to extend you our thanks for the
attention given to Brother A., and any further kindness and consider~tion you can extend to him will place us .under. additional obligat10n to you.
Yours truly and fraternally,
[SEAL.]
·WALTER G. ANDERSON, Srrcretary.
DETAILED . STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS FROM SEPTEMBER
1st, 1906, TO AUGUST 31st, 1907.
SEPTEMBER: ·19<J6.
Balance on hand September 1st. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. . . ......: . ....... ... . $. 23 04
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. . . . ... . . . .... . ...
40 64
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, ·Cal ...• ·~... .
48 56
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
26 oo
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
27 15
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal:. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28 88
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal : ......... . . · 3 70
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ....... : . .. : . . . . . .
21 60
Palestine Lodge, No .351, Cal : .. ...... : ....... . ..
9· 76
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ....... .. .. : .. ... : . . .
'1 76
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. . .. . : ..... . .... .
10 24
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.. . . ... . . : . . . .. . .. . . ·.
1 44
Pt. Jervis Lodge, No. 328, N. Y : • .. ... .. .. ... . : . .
30 oo
Klamath, .Lodge, No. 77, Ore ..... . ... : .. . .. : .. . .. · 9 oo ·
M. H . Flint, Cal ...... ... ... . ..... . .. . ::.. .. . . . . . 1,434· 76
McDonald Lodge, No. 172, Ga ... ... . ... . : . : ... ...
33 75
St. Mathews Lodge, Mass .. ... .... . : . . . . . . . . . . . . .
36 25
Kirksville Lodge, No. 366, Mo..... .. . .... .. .. . . . . · 8 85
Munn Lodge, No. 190, N . Y..... .. .......... . ...
15 00
OCTOBER, 1906." .
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal.. . . . . . . ... : .... . . $·
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . .•.. ..... . . ... .. .
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ...... .. .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. .. . . ... ... ..•.... ..
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .... ... .. . ..•....
7

23 04
40 72
48 32
25 76
27 15

712 68

634

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal..................
27 52
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. . . . . . . . . . . .
3 70
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal.... .. . .. . . . . .. .. ..
21 92
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal..... .. ....... .. ....
9 48
7 92
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal......................
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal................. . 10 48
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal... .................. ·. .
2 64
Grand Lodge, CaL .. .......•...... . •..... .... • .. 3,000 00
M. H . Flint, Cal. ......... ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 3,000 00
Orient Lodge, No. 51, Kan...................... .
20 00
Orient Lodge, No. 51, Kan.......................
30 75
Orange Lodge, No. 14, S. C......................
20 00
Mariposa Lodge, No. 24, Cal. .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . .. .. .
30 00
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, Cal..... .. ..... .. ......
52 50
Ashlar Lodge, No. 33, Neb............... ... .....
75 00
45 00
Garfield Lodge, No. 480, Ark.....................
Washington C. H. Lodge, Ohio..................
20 00
60 00
St. Johns Lodge, No. 11, W. D. C........... .. .. •
York Lodge, No. 410, Mich......................
15 00
Washington Central Lodge, No. 114, Wash., D. C.
20 00
No\7lMB1'R, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal .................. $ 23 50
40 88
. Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. ................ .
48 72
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal .•..•....•
26 08
East Gate Lodge,· No. 290, Cal. .................. .
28 00
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal.. ............... .
29 36
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal ................. .
3 70
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. .......... .
21 92
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal ................. .
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. .................. .
10 00
8 00
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .. . ........ . ......... .
10 80
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .... . .. . . .. .•..
2 64
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal .................... .
30 00
Marion Dunn Lodge, No. 19, Fla ............... .
15 00
Hermon Lodge, No. 273, Iowa ... . .....•. . .. . .. ..
Topeka Lodge, No. 17, Kan .... ........ .... ..... . 100 00
30 00
Pt. Jervis Lodge, No. 328, N. Y ........ . ....... ..
8 00
Oswegatchie Lodge, No. 687, N. Y .............. ..
60 00
King Solomon Lodge, No. 260, Cal .••........... .
15 00
Central Square Lodge, No. 622, N. Y .• ......... .
20 00
Laramie Lodge, No. 3, Wyo .................... ..
60 00
Elgin Lodge, No. 117, Ill ....................... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Robinson Lodge, No. 266, Ky ................... .
McDonald Lodge, No. 172, Ga ................... .
King Solomon Lodge, No. 5, Ariz ...........•....

635

25 00
38 75
75 00

Dte£MB£R, 1906.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. . . ••............
23 20
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal ................... .
40 80
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 .••....•.....••
49 04
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. .................. .
26 96
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ..........•.•....
28 65
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ............... ..
29 60
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. .... .• .....
3 ?O
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal ................ ..
22 32
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ..............•....
10 00
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal.. .................. ..
8 32
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal.. .............. .
11 12
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.. .................. .
2 80
Liberty Lodge, No. 299, Cal.. ............ : ..... .
25 00
Pt. Jen.is Lodge, No. 328, N. Y ................. .
50 00
Orange Lodge, No. 14, S. Car ...,............... ..
10 00
Cruz Astral Lodge, No. 5, Peru ........•...•.....
5 00
Aurora Lodge, Oregon .................••...••..•
10 00
Lillian Baily Lodge, N. Y ...................... ..
10 00
Oswegatchie Lodge, No. 687, N. Y ........•.....•
75 00
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .... , ................ .
75 00
Doric Lodge, No. 25, Colo .................... ; .. ' 15 00
Eddyville Lodge, No. 74, Iowa ... . ............... .
6 50
Pine Lodge, No. 82, Fla ...............•••.••.••..
40 00
Duvall Lodge, No. 249, Ark .. .. ................. .
10 00
Garrettsville Lodge, No. 246, Ohio ...•.......••...
50 00
North Star Lodge, No. 91, Cal. .................. .
24 30
Interest on deposit for 1906 ..................... .
37 14
JANUARY, 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ................. $ 23 20
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. ..... . ........... .
40 96
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ........ .
48 56
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. .................. .
26 88
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal.. . ~ . ............ .
28 65
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal ................ ..
30 00
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal ......•.....
3 70
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal. ................ .
2240

•

636

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. . . ........ . ... . .. . .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .. .. . . . . . .. ·. .... .. . . .
Golden State L odge, No. 358, Cal. . .. .. .. .. . , .. . . .
· Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. . .. . ........... .. .. .
Warrant cancelled No. 314, May 13, 1905 . .. . ...• .
Warrant cancelled No. 425; Dec.' 21, 1905 ........ .
Aurora Lodge, Oregon .. .. . . ..... . : ... ... . . .. .. . .
Golden Star Lodge, No: 9, S. Dak ... : . . .... . . .. .
Phillips Lodge, No. 225, Wis. : .. .... .. : .. . , .. . . . .
Lillian Baily Lodge, N. Y: .. . ... . : .. .. ... .. , ... ..
Orient Lodge, No. 51, Kan :.: ... . : . : .. . ... .. .... .
Solomon City Lodge; No: 105, Kan ... .... .. . : . .. .
Temple Lodge, No. ·412, Pa .·. ...... . . ~ . . ... . . . .. .
Hesperia Lodge, No'. "411; Ill .:.:: . . . . .. . . .. ... .. .
Western Star Lodge, ·No. l ; Cal .... : . : ..... . .. . . .
Reed Lodge, Ind .. :.:: : ::::. :.:.:. : . . . : .... . .. . .
Aurora Lodge, Orego11. ::::::::. : . ... ..... . . . . .. .
Monitor Lodge, No: 5l2;·IU:::: . .... . . : .. . . ... . . .
Evergreen Lodge, No.-259; Cal: .:.. . ... . .. . . . . .. .
Solomon Lodge, No: 20; ·Fhr: : . . . : . . . ..... ..... . .
Pepin Lodge, No. 89; Wis .:::: .. .. . : . : . ...... ·... :
Waddington Lodge, No: ·393;N: Y .. : . . .. .. .. . ... .
Harmony Lodge, No: 438, Canada . . . . .. . ; .. . ... . .
Manton Lodge, No. 347, ·Mich .. : .. . . . .-. . . ... . .. . .
Additional interest for -19C6 . • • : ••.• . •. • .• .• • •.•.•

GR.AND LODQ-E OF 0.ALIFORNl.A.

10 00
8 32
11 40

3 60
4 15
25 ()()
10 00
i5 00
. 50 C-0
15 00
15 75
25 00'
50 00
63 25
165 00
15· 00
17 50

11 00
15 00
50 00
48 00
20 co
20 25
25 ·00
37 01

• ~JiB.RUAR1/', 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge,.N.o. 42, .Cal.. . .. .. .. .. . . . . ... $ 23 12
Pentalpha Lodge, No.. 202, .Cal. . ... . . .. ... . . . . . . .
41 20
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. .. ... .. . .
48 72
East Gate Lodge, NG>. 290, Cal. . . .............. ... .
27 04
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, .C al. ... ... . .. .. .... . . . . .
29 00
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ... . ....... . .... .
30 40
3 70
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. . .. ... . .. . .
22 72
West Gate Lodge, No. 335; Cal. .·... ..... . ...... .
10 24
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ..... .. . . ........ . .
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. .... . .. . ... . . . . . . .. . ..
8 32
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .. .. .... .. .. . ..
11 44
·4 40
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. .... . ... .. .. . ....... ..
Humboldt Lodge, No. ·79, Cal. .. ....-. .. . .... ... . .
5 00
Morocco Lodge, No. 372, Ind . . .... .. . .. .. . .. . . . .
50 00
Starr King Lodge, No. 344, Cal. ... .. ......... ..
7 50
Newville L odge, No. 205, Cal. . . .... .... .... . . . . .
20 00

Jefferson Lodge, No. 90, Ohio .•.... . .......... . ..
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal.. ... . . . . • .. . ....... . ..
Solomon Lodge, No. 20, Fla .. ...•...... . .........
St. John Lodge, No. 18, Nev ..... . ............ . .. .
Landmark Lodge, No. 442, Pa .... . ... . ...•... •..
Laramie Lodge, 1ifo. 3, Wyo .•.. . •...... . .........
Starr King Lodge, No. 344 Cal
Orange Lodge, No. 14, S. C~r ... :·::::::::::::::::
Starr King Lodge, No. 344, Cal.. ............ . . .
Washington Cent'! Lodge, No. 14, W . D. C ..•....
Solomon Lodge, No. 20, Fla .... . ..•..... . ...•....

637

40 00
25 00
5 00
15 00
10 00

25 00
50 00

10 00
10 00
20 00
89 50

MARCH, 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal.. . .. . .... . ....... $ 23 36
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .. . ...........•...
41 44
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. •.••....•
48 72
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal.. .. .............. . .
27 36
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. . . : . . .•...•.....•
29 00
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal.. .....•.•..••••.•
30 56
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ... : .•.••••
3 70
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cal.. ...... . ....... . .
22 72
Palestine Lodge, No. 351 , Cal. . .. .. . ... : . . ... . •..
10 32
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. . ... . . .. . . ... . ..... . .
8 48
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .............. .
11 68
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. .. ....... ... . ....... .
5 20
Highland Park Lad."'e, U. D., Jan. and Feb . .... . .
3 36
Liberty Lodge, No. 299, Cal. ........ . ........... .
54 00
Niagara Falls Lodge, Canada . . .. ...... . . .... ... .
15 00
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .. .. . ..... . ..... .
25 00
Morganfield Lodge, No. 66, Ky . .. . . . ........... .
12 00
Reliance Lodge, No. 776, N. Y .. .. . . ........... .
6 70
Orange Lodge, No. 14, S. Car . . .. . . .... . ....... . .
5 00
Topeka Lodge, No. 17, Kan .. . . ... .. . . .. ...•.. . ..
17 40
Union Lodge, No. 31, Conn .. . ....... .. .. . .... . .
35 00
Wellington Lodge, No. 150, Kan . . .. ..........•. . •
20 00
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill .. .... .. . ........ . .. . .
20 00
Reliance Lodge, No. 776 N Y
5 00
Huguenot Lodge, No.
N.·
20 00

46: Y.' ::::::::::::::::::

-------

APRIL,

1907.

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal.. .. .. ..... . . . .... $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. . .. . .. . ..... . . . . ..

23 60
41 60

638

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. ........ .
4888
East Gate Lodge, No. · 290, Cal. .... . ............. .
27 92
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. .. ... .... .... ..... , .. .
29 00
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal., .. , . .. , .. , ..... .
31 20
Vallee de France Lodge; No. 329; CaL • ..........
3 60
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, CaL,,,,, .... • ....... . 23 12
Palestine Lodge, No. 351; ·Cal.,,,, .... ; ... . .... . .
10 48
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, ·CaL , . . , . , , . .".. , ........ .
8 72
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, ·CaL , ............. .
11 92
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378,-Cal. .... . ........·....... .
6 00
Highland Park, U. D., ·March ·and Apr, . , .. ~ .... .
4 80
20 00
Marion Lodge, No. 35.• Ind ............ . .... . .... .
Occidental Lodge, No. 22, Cal. .. . ............... .
15 00
St. Johns Lodge, No. 453, Ireland ............... .
19 25
Harmony Lodge, No. 438, · Cana:da.: . : : : ..... . , ... .
2000
5 00
Keystone Lodge, No. 102, · Kan. : . : ............ . .
72 50
Niagara Lodge, No. 375; N. Y : .......... . ....... .
Ionic Lodge,' No. 90, W a.sh : ... : : . : : .. : ........... · 25 00
53 25
Elliott Lodge, Mass. :. : .. :: .. : .. : . .. : . ..... . ... ;.
Mosaic Lodge, No. SS,' Neb:::.:.: ......... : ... ..
15 00
Lotus Lodge, No. 31, N: Y::::.: ......... ; . .... . .
16 00
7 50
Aztlan Lodge, No. 1, Ariz .. :. : , .... :. : .......... .
Aztlan Lodge, No. 1, Ariz ............. : . ....... .
10 00
10 50
Widow's Son Lodge, No. 66, Conn .. . .. . ........ .
15 00
Concordia Lodge, No. 345; Ohio ~ ................ .
Wasatch Lodge, No. ·1, Utah.: ....... . ......... .
25 00
' 7 50
Mystic Tie Lodge, No. 74, Kan ........ . ........ .
MAY, 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge, No: 42,.CaL . ·. . .............. $
Pentalpha Lodge, No.·202, Cal. .·.·.·..............·..
Southern California Lodge, ·No. 278, Cal ........ : .
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, ·Cal. ................ .
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal... .....• ·. ...... .. .
South Gate Lodge, No. ·320, Cal..·.... . ... ·..... .. . ·
Vallee de France Lodge, No. ·329, Cal. .. . . ... . . . .
West Gate L edge, No. ·335,. Cal. .-.. ·. . . ........ . . .
Palestine Lodge, No. ·351,. Gal. ... .. . .. .......... .
Sunset Lodge, Nu. 352, Cal.. . .. ........... . .... . .
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal.. ............. .
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal. : .. . .......... : .... .
Scotland Lodge, No. 52, S. Dak . . ....·........ ... .
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411,. Ill .. .. . .. . . . ........ . .

23 84
41 60
49 44
28 4(1
3o 80
30 80
3 50
23 28
10 80
8 88

12 00
6 80
16 25
10 00

Hailey Lodge, No. 16, Idaho . ... .. . . ............ .
Marion Lodge, No. 35, Ind ..... . ... . . .. ........ .
Union Lodge, No. 58, Cal.. ........ . .... . ..... . .
Evening Star J.,odge, No. 75, N. Y .... . . . ........ .
Manton Lodge, No. 347, Mich ................... .
San Diego Lodge, No. 35, Cal. ........ .... . . . . . . .
Union Lodge, No. 31, Conn . . ............. : ..... .
Carlton Union Lodge, No. 8, N. Bruns . ........ .
Harmony Lodge, No. 8, Ohio . .. ... . ............ .
Widow's Son Lodge, No. 66, Conn .. . ... . ...... .
Blue Island Lodge, Ill . . .. ........ . ............. .
Marion Lodge, No. 35, Ind . ..... . . . . .. : ... . .... .
White Mountain Lodge, No. 86, N. H .... ....... .
Fielding Lodge, No. 192, Ohio . ... . . .. ....... . . .
Bodley Lodge, No. l, Ill ................ .. ...... .

..

15 00
20 00
15 00
60 00
14 70
30 00
25 00
25 00
35 00
£8 55
36 25
20 00
55 75
62 00
15 00

JUNE:, 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ......... . ....... $ 24 00
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Ca,1 ... . ...... . ........ .
41 76
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. . ....... .
49 76
East Gate Lodge, N o. 290, Cal. . . . ... .. .......... .
28 80
31 25
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. ..... . .......... .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. .......... . .... .. .
31 20
3 50
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. ......... . .
West Gate Lodge, No. 335, Cat..: ............... .
24 00
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ........... . ...... .
10 96
Sunset Lodge, No. 352, Cal. ... .... . ... .. ...... , .
9 04
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. ..... . . . ...• .. .
12 16
7 60
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.. ·•... . . . . ......... , .
Highland Park, U. D., May and June .... . .... . . .
7 60
Occidental Lodge, No. 22, Cal. . ........ . ........ .
75 00
25 00
Samuel Prager warrant cancelled ............... .
85 65
Gamble Lodge,. No. 244, Tex .......... .' ........ .
Harmony Lodge, No. 8, Ohio .. . ................ . . . 36 65
Ingalls Lodge, No. ·39, Okla ..... . . . . . . . .. . . , .... .
31 95
Occidental Lodge, No. 22, Cal. . . ....... . ........ .
80 00
Moriah Lodge, No. 15, Conn .. . ......... . ...... . .
25 00
15 00
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, Cal. , .... ... . .. .. . ..... . .
Lexington Lodge, No. 310, N. Y ........ .. ....... .
53 25
35 00
Pallock Loctge, No. 502, Pa .... . ................ .
Solomon Lodge, No. 105, Kan ................... .
34 00
Hesperia Lodge, No. 411, Ill ............... ... .. . .
10 00
Old Erie Lodge, No. 3, Ohio . . . . . . . . .. . . . ... . . .. .
27 50

639

640

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cosmopolitan Lodge, No. 872, Tex ............... .
Eufanla Lodge, No. 1, Ind. Ty..... ...... ... .. .·... .
Attica Lodge, No. 462, N. Y ....... .... ...... ·.... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
31 2S
10 ()()

200 ()()

JULY, 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ................ $ 24 ()()
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal. .. ............... .
41 68
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal. •........ . 49 68
East Gate Lodge, No. 290, Cal. .... ... ........... .
28 72
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal. . . .... . ......... .
31 2S
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal. ........ .. .. . .. . .
33 (J()
Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, Cal. •........ ;.
3 70
West Gate Lodge, No. 33S, Cal. ...... ... . ...... .
24 ()()
Palestine Lodge, No. 3Sl, Cal. .................. .
11 12
Sunset Lodge, No. 3S2, Cal. ..... . .......... .. .. .
9 28
Golden State Lodge, No. 358, Cal. .............. .
12 32
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, Cal.. ... ."............... .
8 ()()
Grand Lodge, Cal. ........ .. ...... ...... ........ . 411 60
Toronto Lodge, Canada ................•..•......
9 80
Pride of the West Lodge, No. 179, Mo ... .. ...... . 100 ()()
Missouri Lodge, No. 1, Mo . . .......... ......... .
33 7S
Richmond Lodge, No. 37S, Cal. ......... ·......... .
lS ()()
California Lodge, No. 1, Cal. ................... .'.
Rackett River Lodge, No. 213, N. Y ............. .
91
Tonlon Lodge, No. 93, Ill ................... ." ... .
2S ()()
Olive Branch Lodge, No. 39, N. Y ............... .
s ()()
Attica Lodge, No. 462, N. Y .................... .
48 ()()
(J() ()()
Glen Cove Lodge, No. S80, N. Y ................ .
Washington Cent'! Lodge, No. 14, W. D. C ...... .
20 ()()
Missouri .Lodge, No. 1, Mo ..................... .
7
Oriental Lodge, No. 61, Iowa ...... ... .......... .
17
Yuma Lodge, No. 17, Ariz ..................... .
lS ()()
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill ..................... .
s ()()
Torreon Lodge, No. 8, Mexico ....... .... . ...... .
48 ()()
St. John Lodge, No. 11, W . D. C ........ .. ...... .
90 ()()
Tucson Lodge, No. 4, Ariz . .. ... ... .. ... ...... . . .
Sl ()()

so ()()
so

so
so

AUGUST, 1907.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42, Cal. ..............•.. $
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202, Cal.. .................. ·
Southern California Lodge, No. 278, Cal .. ....... .
East Gate Lodge, ~o. 290, Cal. ................ .

24 32
42 ()()
24
28 96

so

Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, Cal..................
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Vallee de France Lodge, No: 329, Cal.. ... .. .. ...
West Gate Lodge, No. 33S, Cal............. .. ...
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, Cal. ... ................
Sunset Lodge, No. 3S2, Cal... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Golden State Lodge, No. 3S8, Cal. . . . . . . . . • . . . • . .
Mizpah Lodge, No.- 378, Cal. .. . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . • . .
Highland Park Lodge, U. D., Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
South Gate Lodge, No. 320, Cal.................
Pleiades Lodge, No. 478, Ill. . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Mt. Hermoii Lodge, No. 179, Md.... . ...........
Newton Lodge, No. 142, Kan . ... ................
Franklin Lodge, No. 4, Vt . ... . .. .. . . ............
King Solomon Lodge, No. 2(J(), Cal. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

641

31 60
34 64
3 70
24 16
11 28
10 16
12 48
8 80
8 48
43 00
S 00
7S 00
lS 00
2S 00
90 00

Total receipts ............................................ $17,036 46
DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS.
Paid. Received.
Jurisdiction. .
Africa ........................................... $ 10 ()()
Alabama ........................................ . 192 lS
2S ()()
Alaska .. ...... ..... ......... .. ....... ........ ... .
$1S8
Arizona ............ . . . .·................ ... ..... . 226 3S
55 ()()
6S 80
Arkansas .. . . ... .. .. . . ... .... . ... ....... ...... ... .
Australia ....... : .............................. . 301 99
35 ()()
Austria ..................... . ...... . ....... . .... .
20 ()()
Bermuda Island ......... .. .. ...... ... .. .... .... .
35 ()()
Brazil ... .. ........ .... ........................ .
35 ()()
British Columbia . .... ..•....... .. .... .... ...... .
1,021 30
California ....... ..• ..... .... . . ....... ... . ....... l,3S9 7S
6S OS
Canada . ........................................ . 268 21
20 ()()
Chili . . .. ..... . ...... .............. · · · · · •••• A• •••
35 ()()
China ................................ • ... · · · · · · ·
89 ()()
lS ()()
Colorado ........... .... . . ... ... .. . . ... ... ....... .
25 ()()
Columbia, Sa ... ............. .... . ..... ... ·······
124 OS
Connecticut .............. .. . .... .... .... . .. .... . 274 OS
20 ()()
Delaware
35 ()()
Denmark ..... .... ........... ....... .... . . . .... .
England ..... . ........................ . ...... .. . 163 7S
2S ()()
Finland ........ . . . ..... .. .... . ... ... · ... · · · · · · · ·
164
Florida ...................... . ... .. .. . ... · · · · · · · 327 40

so

so

642

Jurisdiction.
Paid.· Received.
France ......................................... .
18 50
Georgia ...............•...•............... : .... . 171 75
72 50
Germany ...................................... .,. 189 00
Hawaii ........................................ .
35 00
Holland .......................•........... : ....•
20 00
Honolulu ......................................•
32 00
Idaho .......................................... .
34 50
15 .00
Illinois ............................................ 1,021 25
335 50
Indiana ........................................ . 182 80
125 00
Indian Territory ............................... .
10 00
28 50
Iowa ...............................•............ 140 90
39 00
Ireland ............................. '. .......... .
31 75
19 25
Ita)y ............................................ .
15 00
Jamaica ........................................ .
20 00
Kansas ........................................ . 701 24
290 40
Kentucky ...................................... .
47 00
37 00
Louisiana ...................................... . 270 35
Maine ...•. . ........•......••........•..........
67 50
Manila ............•........•.. ·...•........ , , ... .
17 50
Maryland . . .... . ...... .................... ..... . . 285 00
75 00
Massachusetts .................................. . 171 50
.89 50
Mexico ........................................ .
51 50
48 00
Michigan ..................................... . 269 00
54 70
:Minnesota ...........•.......................... 105 50
Mississippi ..................................... .
40 50
Missouri ....................................... . 681 70
159 10
Montana ........................................ .
32 50
Nebraska ................ ... ................... . 117 50
9000
Nevada .. ., ..................................... .
60 00
15 00
New Brunswick ................•...•............
25 00
25 00
New Hampshire ................................ .
70 75
55 75
New Jersey .. .. .......... . .... ,, .............. .. 225 00
New Mexico .................................... .
27 50
New York ......................................• 1,404 41
905 95
New Zealand ................. : .......•...........
4000
North Carolina ........•..... • .................. .
25 00
North Dakota ................................... .
10 00
Norway ........................................ .
25 00
Nova Scotia .................................... .
22 50
Ohio ...... ... ....... .. ......... . .............. . 572 80
286 15
Oklahoma ...........................•...........
66 80
31 95
Oregon ••.•••••••••••••••••.•••••..•............ 275 50
46 50

643

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paid. Received.
Jurisdiction.
95 00
Pennsylvania ....................................... . 221 55
5 00
Peru .................... . .................... .
55 00
,
Philippine Islands ............................... .
22 50
Prince Edward Island .. : ... . .................... . .
37 50
Prussia ....................................... .
54 bO
_·Rhode Island ................................... .
25 00
Russia ......................................... . .
73 90
Scotland ... . ... .... ...................... . ..... .
45 00
47 50
South Carolina ................................. .
16 25
31 25
South Dakota ................................... .
23 50
Sweden ....................... ··· ... · · · · · · · · · · ··
35 00
Switzerland .. ....• ......... ..... ... ....... ... .• ·.. .
45 00
Tennessee ............................ , ......... .
116 90
Texas .......................................... . 192 90
25 00
85 00
Utah .......................................... .
25 00
51 50
Vermont .................... ·... .... . ........ . .. .
90 00
Virginia ........ . ..................•............
22 50
Wales ......................................... .
210 00
Washington, D. C ............................... . 229 65
25 00
65
00
Washington, State ... .... .. .. ... .. ... .. .......... ·
30 00
West Virginia ..................... ·.. . .......... .
98 00
Wiscons.in ...................................... . 178 50
45 00
79 55
Wyoming ....................................... .
5
Yucatan ...........••...........................

co

$12,947 25

$5,126 80

RECAPITULATION.
RECEIPTS.

•

Balance Sept. 1, 1906 ............................. $ 712 68
Grand Lodge of California . .... . .............. . .. 3,000 00
M. H. Flint, S. F., Disaster Fund ................. 4,434 76
Los Angeles City Lodges ......................... · 3,182 32
From Sister Jurisdictions .....•.................. 5,126 80
From Grand Lodge of California on account of
funeral of Samuel Prager-Grand Standard
Bearer ..................................... . 411 60
Interest and miscellaneous sources ............... . 168 30
Total receipts ............................................ $17,036 46

644

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The present officer.s . have been elected to serve until the. first
Wednesday in January, 1908, and they are :-W. J. Lawry, chairman;
Abe P. Leach, Treasurer; J. J. Warner, Secretary.
The receipts and disbursements of the Board from October 3d,
1906, to October 2d, 1907, inclusive, are as follows:

DISBURS:EM:ENTS.
Expense Account. ................................ $1,212 72
Employment Bureau . .. ....................... ·. . . 300 00
Funeral account of Samuel Prager-Grand Standard Bearer.. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 411 60
Classified by Jurisdictions .. .... ... ............ ... 12,947 2S .
General Relief Unclassified ......... . ............. 1,681 2S
Total disbursements ........................ ..... ..... '.: .. $16,SS2 67
Balance Sept. 1, 1907 .................. . ...................... $83 79
All which is respectfully submitted. ·
.
J. H. B:EAN, Vice-President.
J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.

645

•

RECEIPTS.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. ......................... $ 4S9 7S
Oakland Lodge, No. 188 ......................... . 346 lS
Brooklyn Lodge, No. 22S ........................ . 192 SS
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244 .... .... ...............,.. . 267 OS
Sequoia Lodge, No. 349 .... .... .. ......... ...... . 238 SS

$1,S04 OS

64 73
621 90
488 90

To the M.'. W.' . Grand Lodge of California:

Interest on money deposited in bank . ... 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Refunded by Lodges in· California ....................... .
Refunded by Lodges in other jurisdictions ......•.........
Refunded by individuals .... ~ ............................ ..
Donated from Grand Master's Relief Fund ............... .

1,000 00

The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith respectftilly
presents its annual report, from October 4th, 1906, to October 2d, 1907,
inclusive.

Add balance in tr!!<lsury October "4th, 1906 .... .".. .. ....... .

$4,16S 33
2,29S 20

OAKLAND.

Until January, 1907, the Board's membership is shown in ·our report for 1906. From January, 1907, the following brethren have composed the Board :ABRAHAM Pow:EI.L L:EACH, Master;
Live Oak Lodge .. No. 61, by HARRY VANC:E BLASDIU.L, S. W.;
{ MARTIN M:ENO HOFFMAN, J. w.
CHARL:ES EnwIN K:Ens, Master;
Oakland Lodge ... No.188, by JAMES H:ENRY MAcLAFFERTY, S. W.
{ WILLIAM ISIDORE MACDONALD, J, W.
UB:ERT PASHA BRIGGS, Master;
Brooklyn Lodge .. No.22S, by WALTtR JOSEPH PETERSON, S. W. ;
DWIN LYMAN SARGENT, J. w.

~

WII.LIAM JOHN LAWRY, Master;
Alcatraz Lodge ... No. 244, by JOHN CROSSMAN, S. W.;
{ LEWIS THORNTON CORWIN, J. w.
.
{JAMES CAIRNS Cou, Master;
Sequoia Lodge .. . . No. 349, by JOHN RYLE MAcGR:EGOR, S. W .;
GILMAN WILLIAM BACON, J. w.

48S 7S

· Total available funds during the year. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 6,460 S3
DISBURSEMENTS.
For the relief of.needy and sick brethren and.burial: ....... $
For the relief o{ needy and sick widows and orphans .... ..
Expense for Secretary, stationery, postage, telephone, telegraphing, etc ............ ·............. .. .. ........... . .. .

.
Balance in treasury, October 3d, 1907 ............ , ....... $

1,936 SS
847 40
179 14

$ 2,963 09
3,497 44

$ 6,460 S3
The sum of $621.90 reported as refunded by Lodges in California
was received as follows:
·
Friendship Lodge, No. 210, San Jose . .. .......•...•........... $ 180 00
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38, Santa Cruz.................... ....
10 CO
San Jose Lodge, No. 10, San Jose........... ..... .. .... ......
17 ~
Morning Star Lodge, No. 68, Stockton. . .... ...... ......... . .. 108
Naval Lodge, No. 87, Vallejo................................ 120 00
Mountain View Lodge, No. 194, Mountain View. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 60

646

GRAND LODGE

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44, San Francisco ......•...........
Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292, Los Gatos ......................... .
Long Beach Lodge, No. 3'Zl, Long Beach ..................... .
Pacific Lodge, No. 136, San Francisco ...•...•.... : ....•.•....
Nevada Lodge, No. 13, N eva.da City ......................... .
Corinthan Lodge, No. 9, Marysville ..........•........... . .. .
Fresno Lodge, No. 247, Fresno .......................... .' ... .

7 50
21 00 .
5 00
10 oo ·

5 25
36 15
10 00

$ 621 90
The sum of $488.90 reported as refunded by Lodges of other Jurisdictions was received as follows:Tipton Lodge, No. 33 ........................................ $ 50 00
Capital City Lodge, No. 312, Indianapolis, Ind ............... . 90 00
Sprague Lodge, No. 40, Sprague, Washington ........ ~ ...... ; .. 95 00
5 00
Lafayette Lodge, F. & A. M., Roxbury, Mass ..•...... . ........
Michigan Lodge, No. 50, Jackson, Mich ...........•.......... 45 00
Union Lodg·e, No. 5, Stamford, Conn ..........•............. · 15 00
Holland Lodge, No. 1, Houston, Texas ......... . ........... . 73 90
10 00
Silver City Lodge, No. 13, Silver City, Idaho ............. .... .
Gate City Lodg-e, No. 5, Atlanta, Ga ..................... .... . 105 00

$ 488 90
The sum of $2,783.95, reported as disbursed for charity to brethren,
their widows and orphans, was distributed as .follows:20 cases from California .... .... ............................. $1,074 40
1 case from Arizona ........................ . ... . ............ . 390 00
2 cases from Australia . . ...•.. ·........ ...•.. .. .. ............ . . 57 50
3 cases from Canada ........................ . ................ . 66 50
1 case from Connecticut. ....................... : ......... ... . 25 00
2 cases from Illinois ........ . . ... .... . ........ . ......... ... ... . 76 00
1 case from Idaho ............................................ . 10 00
3 cases from Indiana ................. . .................... . 160 65
2 cases from Indian Territory . . ............ , ........ : ....... . 30 00
10 00
1 case from Kansas ......... .. .. .... .. . ........•.......... . ...
5 00
I case froi:n Missouri .. . .................................... . .
3 cases from Michigan ..................................... . . . 73 25
1 case from Maine .................................. ·.... .. ... . 90 00
2 cases from New York ..................................... . 72 oo·
I case from Oregon .....•.............. . .....•.............•. 4000
1 case from Georgia ...•...•.....................•...........•. 106 50
12 25
1 case from Hawaiian Islands ...................... .. ..... .. . .
2 00
1 case from Pennsylvania ..................... . .. . ........ .. .

OF CALIFORNIA.

647

2 cases from Scotland ........•....... ·. . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . .
3 cases from Washington. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1 case fro!11 Massachusetts. . .. . . . . . . . . . .. . . . .. . . . •.. .. . .. .. . . .
2 cases from Ohio........ . ........... . .......................
1 oease from Texas. .. .. .. . . . . .. .. .. . . . . . . .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . . . . .
I case from Philippine Islands................................

123 00
120 00

5 00
141 00
73 90 ·
20 00

$ 2,783 95
During the year covered' by this report the following named brethren have been buried with Masonic honors under the auspices of this
Board:-

1906.
Oct. 11. James May Willits, Tipton Lodge, Logansport, Ind.
Oct. 31. Thomas Gardiner Wooten, St. Lawrence Lodge, No. 624,
Montreal, P. Q.
Nov. 7. William Henry Carothers, Chadwick Lodge, No. 68, Coquille,
Oregon.
Dec. 11. Andrew J. Dexter, Mountain View Lodge, No. 194, Mountain View, Cal.
1907.
Jan. 16. George W . Hughes, Seaman Lodge, Milan, Mo.
Feb. 4. J . Eaton, St. George Lodge, No. 333, Glasgow, Scotland.
Feb. 11. Horace Hale, Nevada Lodge, No. 13, Nevada City, Cal.
Feb. 21. Louis Sund, Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292, Los Gatos, Cal.
Mar. 15. Eugene C. Conroy, Pacific Lodge, No. 136, San Francisco, Cal.
Apr. 4. N. Chemries, Suisun Lodge, No. 55, Suisun, Cal.
May 7. Alfred Wilkie, Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44, Sitn Francisco,
Cal.
June 9. W. H. Cahill, Gate City Lodge, No. 2, Atlanta, Ga.
June 16. Barnard R. Boorman, Corinthian Lodge, No. 9, Marysville,
Cal.
July 19. C. A. Henry, St. Johns Lodge, No. 37, Yreka, Cal.
Aug. 19. James L. Johnston, Tyrian Lodge, No. 452, Erie, Pa.
Aug. 25. Isaac E. Scobee, Sylvan Lodge, No. 507, Dunnston, Iowa.
Sept. 13. Roger Johnson, Dumbarton Kilwinning Lodge, No. 18, Dum. barton, Scotland.
Sept. 13. George William Roark, Crescent Lodge, No. 25, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Altheus Charles Newman, Montour Lodge, No. 168, New
York, N. Y.
All which is respectfully submitted.
W. J. LAWRY, Chairman.
]. ]. WARNER, Secretary.

648

. 649

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGs OF THE

SPECIAL RELIEF FUND.
SACRAMENTO.

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The Sacramento Board of Relief respectfully ·offers the following
report of the transactions from October 1st, 1906, to October 1st,. 1907:

Total

RECEIPTS.
Cash on hand last report .................... ...... $ S8S 88
Received from Tehama Lodge, No. 3 ............. . 172 .6S
Received from Washington Lodge, No. 20 ....... . 100 80
Received from Sacramento Lodge, No. 40 ......... . 18S 10
Received from Union Lodge, No. 58 .... .. ....... . 19S 90
9S 8S
Received from Concord Lodge, No. 117 .......... .. .
Received ·from California Lodges repayment. ..... . 230 SS
Received from Foreign Lodges repaymen~ ......... . S34 2S

$ 1,278 60

Disbursed.
For relief San Francisco refugees .. ............. , ..

53 00

53 00

Balance, cash on hand............ .. ..................... $ 1,225 60
Fraternally submitted,
F. A. ROBLIN, Secretary.
THE PHILIPPINE-MASONIC BOARD' OF RELIEF.

$ 2,100 98

Total

Receipts.
Cash on hand last report. ......................... $ 278 60
Received from Grand Master M. S. Flint .......... 1,000 00

DISBURSED.
For r;elief brethren, widows an~ orphans of
California ............•. · ... ; .:...•. . ............ . $ 469 SS
31 ,9S
Connecticut .. ..... .... ...... . ... , .... . . .. .... ·., ..
Illinois ... . . . ...... , ............. , . .. . ............ . 199 75
Iowa , : . : •. ........ ··- ..... ... •..... ... ............ .134 70
20 co
Mexico .... . ....., .. ;.•·· ...·..... : ..... .... ........ .
Michigan ..... • ....... , . ~ .. .. .... .... . ..... , .. , . , , "6S 00
s 00
Minnesota ..... ........... .... ......... . . ....... .
Mississippi ................................... , .. . 138 so
sop
New Mexico . . ... . . , .............................. :
. 2 15
New York ....... ............................... . .
53 so
Ohio ..... . .. ... . .... ......................... .. . .
Oregon ........... , ........ , ..................... . 239 25
Scotland ..... . . .. ....... , ........... ·............ . 352 83
Utah ... ....... , . : . .. . .. ... .. .... . .... . .......... .
19 ·00
18 00
Washington ....... . ..... .... . .. .. .... ........ .. .
6S 80
Expenses ..... ..... .... . . ... ... ; .... , ......... .
Total ......... , .... ....... ..... ., . .. .. . . .. ... . . . .. . . . . . . . $ 1,810 98
290 00
Balance, cash on hand ......................... ,. ·.,....
Fraternally submitted,

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
The undersigned Secretary of the Philippine-Masonic Board of
Relief has 'the honor to render the following report of the receipts and
disbursements of said Board from its organization to i'5 last regular.
·
·
meeting, August 11, 1907 :RECEIPTS.
1907.
Feb. S. To donation from Manila Lodge, No. 342, F. & A. M .. $130 00
Feb. 1S. To donation from Cavite Lodge, No. 3SO, F. & A. M.. 34 00
June 9. To donation from the Grand Lodge of California ..... 3SO 00
Total, Philippine currency ............... . ..... ... $514 00
DISBURSEMENTS.
1907.
Apr. 1S. By warrant No. -1, telegraph message re. Mrs. Gest . ... $ 16 00
June 9. By warrant No. 2, blank books ........ ,·, ........... : 10 00
June 9. By warrant No. 3, relief to Mrs. Flora Watson Buttler, daughter of Bro. John Watson, of Mount
Moriah Lodge, No. 23, F. & A. M., Bordentown,
N. J .... ...... . . ................... .............. 200 00
July 14. By warrant No. 4, printing .................. ; ... .".. . 17 75
Aug.11. By warrant No. 5, one dry seat......................
S 00
Aug. 11. By balance ...... ...... ........ .. ....... .. 1 • • • • • • • • 265 25

F. A. ROBLIN, Secretary.

$S14 00
8

650

PROCEEDINGS OF THE .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

It will be seen that the amount on hand on August 11th, 1907,
$265.25, is very small compared with the possible calls for relief by
sojourning brothers during the balance of the calendar year, or until
the annual contributions from the two Lodges composing the association ·
will be received. It is therefore the unanimous opinion of the Board,
as e:cpressed by resolution of August 11th, 1907, that the Grand Lodge
be asked to renew its contribution of $350.00) three hundred and fifty
dollars for the coming year.
Respectfully and. fraternally,
MANUEL CAMUS RoxAL, Secretary.

S. Henderson and Reuben H. Lloyd was, by direction of the Grand
Lodge, appointed by the Grand Master, with power ·in.. substance, with
the approval of the First Four Officers, to organize a corporation, purch~se a lot, and proceed with the construction of a new Masonic
Temple.

651

In pursuance with such authority, shortly after the close of the
session, the committee met and organized, held several meetings at
which they duly considered and deliberated upon the question as to incorporating, and by and with the consent of the First Four Officers
of the Grand Lodge, they formed a corporation under the name and
style of

All which were referred to the Committee on Finance.
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA.

Bro. Edward Peabody presented the report of the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home, and on motion the
thanks of Grand Lodge was tendered to the Board and the
report was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Bro. Henry Ascroft presented the following report:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:The committee appointed to audit the bills of this Grand Lodge
respectfully submit the following report: Said committee have regularly repaired to the office of the Grand Secretary on the last Saturday
of every month since our last Convocation, when all bills presented
were carefully examined and audited; no bill having been paid without
the endorsement of this committee, who have at all times been cheerfully assisted by the Grand Secretary.
HENRY AscRoFT,

H. J. OWEN,

WALTER A. ScOTT,

l

J .

Committee.

E. PEABODY,
Which was concurred in.
The R.". W:. Reuben H. Lloyd, Sen. Grand Warden,
presented the following:
To ~he M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Under resolutions to be found on pages 415, 467 and 468 of the
proceedings of the communication of the Grand Lodge, held in A. D.
1906, a committee, consisting of William P. Filmer, Edward Coleman, Charles Schlessinger, Charles M. Plum, William P. Jeffries, Orrin

The purposes of the corporation are fully set forth in ·a copy of
the Articles of Incorporation hereto annexed. The Certificate of Incorporation was issued by the Secretary of State on the 25th day of
March,· A. D., 1907.
In keeping with the views, of the Grand Lodge (page 467 of the
Proceedings) the directorate was fixed at twenty-five, so as to be
large enough to permit a representation in the Board of all Masonic
bodies who may subscribe to the stock, and the various Masonic
Lodges and Bodies were invited to nominate persons for the directorate.
In that way a number of the directors were selected, and together with
the First Four Officers of the Grand Lodge and the Board of Directors of the old Masonic Temple, a list of incorporators and directors
was made up as follows :

E. COLEMAN,

F. W. G. MoEBUS,
J. ToNNINGSEN,
J. G. LJ!IBOLD,
C. L. Fil!LD,

w. P. Fu.MU,
C. SCHLESSINGJIR,

C. M. PLUK,

w. P. JEFFRIES,
0. S. HENDERSON,
M. H. FLINT,
G. JOHNSON,
H. L. DAVIS,

E. PEABODY,
F. W. VAN SICKLEN,
L. PATTON,

c.

J. H. NEFF,

C. J. WILLJ!TT,
G. E. BACON,

•

F. L. WIGHT,
L. FORSTER,
P. F. FERGUSON,
H. AscRoFT,
H. D. LoVl!LAND,
R.H. LLOYD.

c.

I

After the receipt of the Certificate of Incorporation from the Secretary of State, the nominated directors met and organized by electing
the following officers :-

652

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANP LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

REUB!lN H. LLOYD ........................ .. .. President.
F. W. VAN SICKLEN ................... Vice President.
GEORGE JOHN SON ............•........•...... Secretary..
PHINEAS F. FERGUSON ....................... Treasurer.

the Board, or who does not own five shares of the· capital stock of the
corpora~ion, standing in his name on the books of the corl>oration, or
who ceases to be a member in good standing of the Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of California.
The time for the annual meeting of the stockholders is fixed for the
third Tuesday in October at ten o'clock A. M., at which time it will oe
necessary to elect a Board of Directors, and it is the desire of the corporation to know whether the Grand Lodge wishes to have any persons
elected directors of the Board other than the First Four Officers of the
Grand ~ody, and. it will be pleased to carry oilt any other, or further
suggestions that the Grarid Lodge may make in the premises.
Respectfully submitted,
WU,LIAM P. FILMl':R,
EDWARD COLEMAN,.
CHARLES SCHLESSINGER,
W . P. JEFFRIES,
Committee.
ORRIN s. HENDERSON,
CHARLES M. PLUM,
R. H. LLOYD,

A Code of By-Laws was adopted, a copy of which is hereto annexed. It will be seen, in the organizing of the corporation, ·that all the
directions given by the Grand Lodge have been carefully observed and
carried out.
·
At a subsequent meeting a committee was appointed to select and
recommend a suitable site for a Masonic Temple, and to that ·c ommittee were given a large number of proposed sites for consideration, .After
careful and thoughtful investigation, and a number of me~tings, the
committee came to the conclusion that as the fire had disrupted the
business and other centers of San Francisco, it would be very difficult
to determine which would be the most available and suitable. place for
a Temple, and they came to the conclusion it would be better for the
interests of the Order to wait until these centers were definitely fixed,
which is now being rapidly done, before choosing a final site. They
further found on investigation that the price of property was much
higher tha~ it would probably be in the near future, an~ it was prudent
to await the settling of values before purchasing.
By direction of the members of the corporation, at a full meeting
held in the office of the corporation, on October 1st, A. D., 1907, your
committee was directed to report the progress made to the· Grand
Lodge and request the approval of its action.
By the Organic Act, it is provided that the number of directors
shall be twenty-five, who shall be chosen from among the members of
the Masonic Order, and . shall be members in good standing of the
Grand U:>dge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California;
and to further safeguard the corporation from the influence ·o f any but
Masons, and to always keep it 'entirely under the control of the Grand
Lodge, it was provided in the By-Laws that no person shall be elected
a director of the corporation unless he is the owner and holder of at
least five shares of the capital stock thereof at the time of his election,
and a resident of the State of California, and a ~ember in good standing of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California.
And by Article XIII. of the By-Laws it will be observed it is also
provided that the Board of Directors shall have the power to declare
the seat of.any member vacant who shall absent himself from the State
of California for more than three months, or who shall be absent from
six consecutive metings of the Board without leave of absence from

653

BY-LAWS
of
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNI..\ .
Article I.
The name ·of this Corporation is and shall be MASONIC TEMPLE
ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA.
. Article II.
·
The office of the Corporation is and shall be in the City and County
of San Francisco, State of California.
.
Article III.
The annual meeting of the c~rporation shall be held at the office
of the Corporati·o n .in said City and County on the third Tuesday in
October at ten o'clock A. M. in each year, and all special meetings of
.the Corporation shall be held at the office of the Corporation.
Article IV.
The annual and all special meetings of the Corporation shall be
called by publication of notice of such meeting, stating the time and
·.p lace thereof, signed by the . President, and published in some daily

654

6n5

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

newspaper published in the City and County of San Francisco, for two
weeks next before the day fixed for said meeting.

directors; having been duly served, or published in a newspaper in said
City and ~ounty for ten days before such meeting.
At all meetings of the Board of Directors seven members of the
Board being present shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business.
Adjourned meetings may be held in pursuance of a resolution of
the Board, adopted at any meeting by vote of a majority of the direc·tors present on a motion to that effect.

Article V.
At the annual, and all special meetings of the Corporation, the
presence of the holders of a majority of the shares of the ciJ.pital stock
thereof shall constitute a quorum.
Article VI.
At the annual, and all special meetings of the Corporation, stockholders may be represented and act by proxy. No person can hold the
proxy of a stockholder, or vote or act for him, unless he himse}f be a
stockholder of the Corporation. The right of the person clai~ing to
vote or act by proxy for another shall be evidenced by a written cer- ·
tificate of appointment, signed by the stockholder delegating tpe, power
to vote and act, and shall be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation, or the Secretary of the meeting a't which he offers to vote. ·
Article VII.
The annual election of directors of this Cor-poration shall be hel.d
at the annual meeting of stockholders, as provided for in Article III.
No person shall be elected a director of this Corporation unless he is
the owner and holder of least five shares of the capital stock thereof
at the time of his election, a resident of the State of California, and a
member in good standing of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California.
Article VIII.
The officers of this Corporation shall be a President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer.
Article IX.
The pay and salaries of all officers, agents and servants of the
Corporation shall be determined from time to time by the Board of
Directors.
Article X.
The regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held on the
second Tuesday in each month at two o'clock P. M., and notice of all
regular meetings of the Board of Directors is hereby dispensed with:
Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held on the
call of the President, or by notice issued by authority of the President,
personally served on each director, or published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City and County of San Francisco, according to
law. Special meetings may also be held upon notice signed by three

Article XI.
The President, Vice President, Secretary and Treasurer shall be
elected by the Board of Directors at their first meeting after the annual
election of directors, and such officers shall hold their office for one
year and until their successors are elected and qualified.
The President and Vice President must be selected from members
of the Board of Directors; the Secretary may be so selected, or the
Board may elect any resident of the State of California who is the
holder and owner of five shares of the capital stock of this Corporation,
and is a member in good standing of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California. The Treasurer need not
be a member of the Corporation.
Article XII.
If, during the term of his office, any director or officer, other than
the Treasurer, shall cease to be a resident of the State of California,
or cease to be a holder in his own right of at least five shares of the
capital stock of the Corporation, or cease to be a member in good
standing of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the
State of California, then his office shall, ipso facto, become vacant.
Article XIII.
The Board of Directors shall have power to declare the seat of
any member vacant who shall absent himself from the State of California for three or more months, or who shall be absent from six
consecutive regular meetings of the Board without leave of absence
from the Board, or who does not own five shares of the capital stock
of the Association standing in his name on the books of the Association
or who ceases to be a member in good standing of the Grand Lodge
Free and Accepted Masons of California.
Article XIV.
Vacancies from any cause in the Board of Directors may be filled
for the unexpired term by the remainder of the Board at any regular
meeting.

656

657

PROCEEDINGS OF TH;E

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Article XV.
The general office of the Corporation shall be maintained 1n the
·City and County of San Francisco, at such place, and be kept open for .
business on such days and during such hours as the Board of Directors
may from time to time determine.

.employees as in their judgment the. necessities or interests of the Corporation ~ay require.
Article XX.
The President shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and
of the Board of Directors. He shall sign. as President of the Corpora.tion, all certificates of stock issued, all contracts, leases or other instruments in writing required by the Corporation, and all drafts on the
Treasurer before the same shall be paid. He shall appoint all committees not otherwise provided for.

Article XVI.
All certificates of the capital stock of the Corporation shall . be
signed by the President and Secretary; and attested by the Corporation
seal, and can be issued to the parties entitled thereto or their author,ii;ed, agents. All transfers of stock shall be made on the books of the
·Corporation by the Secretary. upon surrender of the original certificate
or certificates properly endorsed by the party in whose favor the same
was issued. No. stock shall be transferred to any person not a stockholder of the Corporation at the time of such transfer, unless the same
shall h·ave been offered for sale to the Corporation, or stockholders of
the Corporation, and the purchase at the fair, cash, market value refused, except by authority of . a resolution of the Board of Directors
permitting such transfer.
Article XVII.
The ~orporati~n seal ·and all property and securities of the Corporation shall be under the control of the President, subject to- the
action of the Board of Directors.
The funds of the Corporation shall be kept by the Treasurer of
the Corporation, subject to the control and authority of the Board of
Drrectots, and cannot be disbursed without authority of the Board.
The Directors may riquire a bond from the Treasruer for th;
. security of the Corporation in such sums and with such securities as
may be satisfactory to the Board.
The Secretary shall keep .the books of the Corporation, the minutes
of the meetings of the Corporation, and perform such other duties as
the directors may from time to time require.
Article XVIII.
Dividends fron:i the net profits of the Corporation may be declared
and paid by order cf the Board of Directors in accordance with the
law.
As~essments ·may be levied upon the capital stock of the Corporation by the Board of Directors from time to time in the manner provided by law.
. Article XIX.
The Board of Directors may from time to time appoint such other
officers, agents, superintendents, engineers, attorneys, bookkeepers and

Article XXI.
The Vice President shall hold his ·office for one year, and until his
succ.essor is elected, and in ~ase of th~ absence of the President, or his
inability to serve, the Vice President shall p~rform' all the duties of the
President.
. Article XXII.
. The Secretary shall hold his office for one year, unless sooner removed by the: Board. It shall be his duty to keep a full and complete
rei;ord of a11 the proceedings of the Board of Directors, and of all the
meetings of the stockholders; to keep all books required by law to be
kept; to give apd publish all requisite notices; to sign all checks or
Q.rafts or certificates of stock; to attest with the seal of the Corporation all instruments required to be executed in its behalf; to collect
and pay over to the .Treasurer, taking his receipts therefor, all moneys
due the Corporation. At ea.ch stated meeting of the Board of Directors
he shall submit a statement of the amounts collected by him, from whom,
when collected, the amount collected from each person; the amount paid
·to: the Treasu·r er, with the receipt of the Treasurer for all moneys paid
him. He shall also, in said reports, state the amounts due the Corporation from all sources, from whom due, and the reason for not having collected the same. At the annual meeting of the stockholders of
the Corporation he shall submit to such meetiI~g a full and complete
statement, in detail, of the financ_es and the firiancial condition of the
Corporation, and perform ·such other duties as may be required of him
by the Board of Directors. He shall give a bond coriditioned for the
.faithful performance of his duties, and which bond shall be satisfactory
to the Board of Directors, and in such sums, and on such terms and
conditions as they may fron1 time to time determine.
Artide XXIII.
It shall be the di'i.ty of the Treasurer to receive and safely keep all
.mon.eys belonging to th~ Corporation. He shall pay all drafts ' drawn
on him signed by the President, and 'countersigned ~y the . Sec;retary,

658

659

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

out of the funds of the Corporation in his hands; taking a proper
voucher therefor. At each stated meeting of the Board of Directors
he shall submit a statement of the finances of the Corporation with a
full report of the moneys received by him and the amount paid out,
when and to whom paid, and with proper vouchers for such payments
accompanying such reports, and the balance remaining in his hands at
the time of making such reports. At the annual meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation he shall submit a full and complete statement in detail of his receipts and disbursements. He shall give a bond
satisfactory to the Board of Directors in such sums as they may from
time to time determine.
Article XXIV.
Other officers and employees of the Corporation shall perform such
duties as appertain to their respective positions or as may be required
by the Board of Directors or the President.

Article XXVII.
If the President, Vice President or Secretary shall be absent, or
otherwise disqualified, the Board of Directors are empowered to appoint temporary substitutes for any or all of said officers.

Article XXV.
The number of Directors who shall manage the affairs of the Corporation shall be twenty-five, and shall be elected at the annual meeting of the Corporation as herein provided.
No one shall be eligible to be elected or appointed or act as a Director unless he is the owner of at least five shares of the capital stock
of the association, a resident of the State of California, and a member
in good standing of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
the State of California.
Article XXVI.
It shall be the duty of the President at the first meeting of the
Board of Directors after the annual meeting of the stockholders to
appoint a Finance and also an Auditing Committee consisting of five
members each.
It shall be the duty of the Finance Committee to examine the books
of the Secretary and Treasurer and report thereon in writing to the
Board at each regular monthly meeting and to verify all financial statements submitted by the officers of the Corporation, and to recommend
from time to time what dividends, in their judgment, should be declared.
It shall be the duty of the Auditing Committee to examine all bills
against the Corporation and report thereon.
The President shall appoint such other committees from time to
time as he may deem necessary for the best interests of the Corporation, and such committees as the Board of Directors may designate, and
under. the direction of the Board shall define the duties and powers of
such committees.

Article XXVIII.
These By-Laws may be altered, amended or any of them repealed
and new By-Laws adopted at any regular meeting of the Board of
Directors by a vote of at least fifteen Directors; or they may be so
amended, altered or repealed at any general or special meeting of the
stockholders of this Corporation, or by the written assent of two-thirds
of the capital stock of the Corporation.

ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
of
MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION OF CALIFORNIA.
KNow Au. MliN Bv THllsll PRllSllNTs:
That we, the undersigned, have this day associated ourselves together for the purpose of forming a Corporation under the laws of the
State of California.
AND Wll HllRllBY CllRTIFY:
FIRST :
That the name of said Corporation is MASONIC T'JlMPI.ll ASSOCIATION OF CAI.IFORNIA.
SllCOND:
That the purposes for· which it is formed are :
1. To purchase and own a lot of land in the City and County of
San Francisco, State of California, and erect and maintain thereon a
Masonic Temple, with halls, Lodge-rooms and apartments therein for
the meetings and accommodation of the several Lodges of the Masonic
Order, and all the branches thereof; said Order and all its branches
being benevolent and charitable societies and organizations; and also
to construct, maintain and have stores, halls and offices in said building, and let and lease the same for other purposes.
2. To buy, sell, deal in, improve and use real and personal property
and let and lease the same.

660

661

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3. To borrow and lend money7 and secure loans by deeds of trust

P. F . FERGUSON .......... .. .............. . . . ..... San Francisco, Cal.
"
H . D. LoVELAND .............. . ...... .. { .. . ... .... "
R. H. LLOYD. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
"
"

H. AscRoFT . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "

~md mortgages, or otherwise.

4: ·To create a bonded indebtedness and secure the same by .a
deed, or deeds of trust, or mortgages c~nveying or mortgaging any
real or personal property b~ongi~g to said Corporation.
. TBilUJ.

That the place where its ·principal business is to be transacted shall
be the City and County of San Fra.ncisco, State of California.
FOURTH.
That the term for which it is to exist is fifty years; ·f rom arid
after the date of its incorporation.

Fina:
That the number of its Directors shall be twenty-five, who shall be
chosen from among the ·members of the Masonic order, and shall be
members in good standing of the .Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California; the names of the persons who
shal! be Directors for the first year, and their place of resiqence as
follows:

E. CoLEMAN ...... . ........... . ..... ·.............. San Francisco, Cal.

w. P. FILMER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
C. Scu1;ESSINGER ..... ·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " '
"
c. M. PLUM .·" ................................... "
"
W. P. JEFFRIES . ... ..... .......... ..... ... .. .. , ..... Los Angeles,
0. S. HENDERSON . ................................ : .... Stockton,
M. H. FLINT . ..... .. .... . ·.......................... Los Angeles, · "
G. JOHNSON .... : : ..... . .......................... San Francisco, "
H. L. DAVIS ..... ........... ........ .............. . "
E. PEABODY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
"
F. w. v AN SICKLEN ............ . . ... ............ ·•.• "
c. L .. PAT'I'ON . .. .... .......... . • •.. . ,.... .....••.•. "
J. H. NEFF ...... •;• ... . .... •... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "
"
F. W. G. MoEBUS . ... .... .. ......... .... .......... "
"
]. ToNNINGsEN ................................... "
J. G. LEIBOLD ... ' .'... .... .... ·.................... ; "
"
c. L. FIELD. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • "
c. J. w ·ILLE'I"I' ........·....... ....... .............. •.. . . Pasadena,
G. E. BACON . . ..................•................. San Francisco,
F. L. WIGHT .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . •... . ·~· ..... ·. .. . . . . • . .

"

c. L. FORSTER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . "

"

..
"

SIXTH.
That the amount of the ~pita! stock of this Corporation shall be
One Million Five Hundred Thousand ($1,500,000.00) Dollars, divided
into one hundred and fifty thousand (150,000) shares of the par value
of Ten ($10.00) Dollars each.
SEVENTH.
That the amount of said capital stock which has been actually subscribed is Twenty-five Hundred ($2,500.00) Dollars, and the following are the names of the persons by whom the same has been subscribed, to-wit:
Names of Subscribers.

No. of Shares.

Amount.

E. COLEMAN.... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . ...................... $100
w. P. FILMER ..... . . . .. . .. .... ..... 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

100
100
100
w. P. JEFFRIES ...................... 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
0. s. HEN_DERSON . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
M. H. FLINT ........ : ....... .. ... ... 10 . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . 100
G. JOHNSON ...... . ..... :........... .. 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
H. L. DAVIS.. . . . . . . . . . ..... . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 100
E. PEABODY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
F . w. v AN SICKLiN.... . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
c. L. p AT'I'ON ..... .... .. ...... : . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
J. H. NEFF . . . ...... ... . ........... . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
F. W. G. Mo£BUS .. . . '. .............. 10 . . . . . . . .. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
]. ToNNINGSEN .. . . . . .'. . . . ... . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
J. G. LEIBOLD ............ .... ~ ...... 10 . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
L. FIELD ......................... 10 ............ : . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
c. J. WILLETT. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
G. E. BACON . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
F . L. WIGHT ........................ 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
1
E. L. FORSTER . ...· .................. 10 . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
P. F. FERGUSON.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
H. AscRoFT. , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
H. D. LoVELAND .......... ·... ........ 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
R: H. LLOYD ....... . ... ....... ....... 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100

c. SCHI,ESSINGER ....... . . ............ .10 .... ..,. . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . .
c. M. PLUM. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •. . . . . . . 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

c.

663

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, we have hereunto set our hands and
seals this first day of March, A. D., 1907.

All which was fully concurred in by Grand Lodge.

662

EnwARD COLEMAN.
CHARLES M. PLUM.
J. G. LEIBOLD.
E. L. FoRSTER.
H. D. LovUAND.
CHARLl(S L. PATTON.
F. W. G. MoEBUS.
CHARUS L. FIUD.
HENRY L. DAVIS.
PHINEAS F. FERGUSON.
CHARLES ScHLESSINGER.
HENRY ASCROFT.
JoHN ToNNINGSEN.

[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]

WILLIAM P. FILMER.
J. H. NEFF.
G. E. BACON.
ORRIN s. HENDERSON.
F. w. VAN SICKLEN.
E . PEABODY.
GEORGE JoHNSON.
M. H. FLINT. ·
w. P . JEFFRIES.
c. J. WILLETT.
Fun L. WIGHT.
R. H . LLOYD.

[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]
[Seal.]

STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
City and County of San Francisco. } SS.
On this 22d day of March, in the year one thousand nine hundred
and seven, before me, JAMES M. ELLIS, a Notary Public in and for the
City and County of San Francisco, personally appeared,
EDWARD COLEMAN,
WILLIAM P . FILMtR,
CHARLES M. PLUM,
J. H. NEFF,
J. G. LEIBOLD,
G. E. BACON,
E. L. FORSTER,
ORRIN s. HENDERSON,
H . D. LoVELAND,
F. Y.l. VAN SICKLEN,
CHARLES L. p ATTON,
E. PEABODY,
F. W. G. MoEBUS,
GEORGE JoHNSON,
HENRY L. DAVIS,
w. P. JEFFRIES,
CHARLES SCHLESSINGER,
C. J. WILLETT,
HENRY AscRoFT,
F. L. WIGHT,
CHARLES L. FIELD,
M. H. FLINT,
JoHN ToNNINGSEN,
R. H. LLOYD,
PHINEAS F . FERGUSON,
known to me to be the same persons whose names are subscribed to
the within instrument, and duly acknowledged to me that they executed
the same.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and
affixed my official seal at my office in the said City and County of San ·
Francisco, the day and year last above written.
(SEAL.)
JAMES M. EI.Lis.
Notary Public in and for the City and County of San Francisco, State
of California.

Bro. Chauncey C. Bush presented the following:
WHEREA.S, Many members of this Grand Lodge, who come from the
more remote districts, do not have an opportunity to meet the Grand
Officers because of the multiplicity of the duties of said Grand Officers
during the session; therefore be it

Resolved, That one hour, from 11 A. M. to 12 M., of the second
day of each and every session of the Grand Lodge be, and it is hereby
set apart for a reception of the members by the Grand Officers.

Which was referred to the commit~ee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until two o'clock
this afternoon.

Afternoon Session,
Wednesday, October 9th, A. L. 5907.

i

S

The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
On motion of Brei. Elmer M. Billings, it was ordered that the two
hundred and ten thousand dollars appropriated to the new Temple Association at the last annual communication, be available for the coming
year and that the present committee be continued.

Bro. Hugh J. Owen presented the following bill:
M:. w: . .Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California:
To Excelsior Lodge, No. 166, F. & A. M., Dr.
For expenses of trial of Brother. Harry J. Lask, conducted by
California Lodge No. 1, F. & A. M. as per voucher attached $160 SO

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Bro. William P. Jeffries, Chairman of the Committee on
Returns, presented the following report :
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the examination of the'
returns of the Lodges for the current year, with the assistance of the
Grand Secretary, performed that duty, and take pleasure in reporting

664

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that the returns of all the Lodges have been received by that officer;
that a very large majority of them were prepared ·correctly; that those
which were in the first instance erroneous, have since been corrected
by the Secretaries, upon notice thereof (in some cases more than
once repeated) by . the Grand Secretary; that the dues ·have, in nearly
every instance, accompanied the reports ; and that all the dues have
now been paid.
The classification which follows will show the respective credits
due to the Secretaries of the several Lodges:
The reports of the following two hundred and sixty Lodges were
transmitted within the period of time prescribed by the Constitution;
were accompanied by dues; were in all respects correct; and were handsomely prepared :
California,
Tehama,
Benicia,
Tuolumne,
Corinthian,
San Jose,
Yount,
Nevada,
Temple,
Eureka,
Mountain Shade,
San Joaquin,
Washington,
Hawaiian,
Occidental,
Madison,
Mariposa,
Palmyra,
Trinity,
Golden Gate,
Gold Hill,
San Diego,
Santa Cruz,
Yuba,
Sacramento,
Martinez,
Los Angeles,
Hiram,
Mount Moriah,

No.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

1 Crescent,
3 Texas,
5 . Forbestown,
8 Illinois town,
9 Suisun,
10 Santa Rosa,
12 Union,
13 Plumas,
14 Live Oak,
16 . George Washington,
18 Natoma,
19 Amador,
20 Morning Star,
21 Enterprise,
22 Bear Mountain,
23 Calaveras,
24 Humboldt,
26 lone,
27 Yolo,
30 Rising S,tar,
32 Vesper,
35 Naval,
38 Quitman,
39 North Star,
40 Acacia,
41 St. Helena,
42 Henry Clay,
43 Howard,
44 Jefferson,

No. 45
" 46
50
51
55
57
" 58
60
" 61
62
" 64
65
" 68
. 70
" 76
78
79
80
81
83
84
" 87
88
" 91
92
" 93
" 95
96·
" 97

Hornitos,
La Grange,
Clay,
Manzanita,
Oroville,
Lexington,
Arcata,
Owen,
Pajaro;
Chico,
Summit,
Eden,
Mo.u nt Zion,
Concord,
Clinton,
Fidelity,
Alamo;
Table Mountain,
La Fayette,
Hermann,
Visalia,
Woodbridge,
Sincerity,
Yosemite,
Vacaville,
Valley, ·
Pacific,
Crockett,
Gtaftorr,
Franklin,
Oriental,
Abell,
Eel River,
Molino,
Woodland,
Gibsonville,
Keystone,
Harmony,
Excelsior,
Alameda,
Redwood City,
Mission,
Meridian,
Clear LaJce,
{)

No. 98
99
u
101
" 102
" 103
" 104
" 106
" 108
" 110

" 111

"

112

" 113

"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

«

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"

114
117
119
120
122
124
126
127
128
131
132
133
134
13.5
136
139
141
143
144
146
147
150
156
158
161
164
166
167
168
169
182
183

Surprise Valley,
Evening Star,
Keith, •
Drytown,
Phoen?x,
Mendocino,
Petaluma,
Russi.an River,
Oakland,
Marin,
Santa Barbara,
Mountain View,
San Simeon,
Wilmington,
Hartley,
Silveyville,
Pentalpha,
Confidence,
Salinas,
Stanislaus,
Anaheim,
Rio Vista,
King David's,
Friendship,
San Benito,
South San Francisco,
Doric,
Monterey,
Mosaic;
Speranza Italiana,
Downey,
Inyo,
Bakersfield,
Brooklyn,
Athens,
Solano;·
North Butte,
Covelo,
Calistoga,
Hope,
Surprise Valley,
Hill's Perry,
Guadalupe,
Colusa,

665
No. 184
" 186
" 187
" 174
" 178
" 179
" 180
" 181
" 188
" 191
" 192
" 194
" 196
" 198
" 199
" 201.
" 202
" 203
" 204
" 206
" 207
" 208
" 209
" 210
" 211
" 212
" 216
" 217
" 218
" 219
" 220
" 221
" 224
" 225
". 228
" 229
" 230
" 231
" 233
" 234
" 235
" 236
237
" 240

666
Santa Ana,
Eucalyptus,
Alcatraz,
Laurel,
Pomona,
Alturas,
Bodie,
Landmark,
Welcome,
Penrhyn,
, Evergreen,
King Solomon's,
Tuscan,
Lompoc,
Hesperian,
Orland,
Galt,
Olive Branch,
·Snow Mountain,
Pasadena,
Anchor,
Arroyo,
Oakdale,
Southern California,
Hanford,
Madera,
Mount Shasta,
Callayomi,
San Miguel,
Winedumah,
Maxwell,
Elsinore,
East Gate,
Santa Paula,
Los Gatos,
Orange Grove,
Mt. Jackson,
Silver Gate,
Mokelumne Hill,
Liberty,
Redlands,
Santa Lucia,
Porterville,
Reedley,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.241
" 243
" 244
" 245
" 246
" 248
" 252
" 253
" 255
" 258
" 259
" 260
" 261
" 262
" 264
" 265
" 267
" 269
" 271
" 272
" 273
" 274
" 275
" 278
" 279

" 280
" 281
" 282
" 285
" 287
" 288
" 289
" 290
" 291
" 292
" 293
" 295

"
"
"
"

296

298
299
300
" . 302
" 303
" 304

Azusa,
Ashlar,
Santa Monica,
Delano,
Sisson,
Los Banos,
Tehachapi,
Temescal,
Norwalk,
Sanger,
Fallbrook,
Hollenbeck,
Alis al,
Alhambra,
Whittier,
Corona,
Consuelo,
Redondo,
Valle de France,
Kilauea,
Pacific Grove,
San Pedro,
Alta,
Covina,
West Gate,
Fruitvale,
Carquinez,
San Jacinto,
Oxnard,
Manila,
Starr King,
Palo Alta,
McKinley,
San Bernardino,
Sequoia,
Cavite,
Palestine,
Sunset,
Pinole,
Presidio,
Hollywood,
Mill Valley,
Buena Park,
Golden State,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 305
" 306
" 307

"

3Q<)

" 310
" 312
" 313
" 314

" 315
" 316

" 317
" 319

" 321
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"

322
323
324
325
328
329
330
331•
332
333
334
3.35
336
337
338
341
342
344
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358

Loyahcin,
San. Francisco,
Fort Bragg,
Charity,
Berkeley,
Oliv!!t,
Las Palmas,
South Pasadena,
Unity,
Ocean Park,
Amity,

No.359
" 360
" 361
" 362
" 363
" 364
" 366
" 367
" 368
" 369
" 370

Oceanic,
Jewel,
Richmond,
Mizpah,
Fillmore,
Huntington Beach,
Oceanside,
Highland Park,
Dinuba,
Corregidor,
Palos Verdes,

667
No. 371
" 374
" 375
" 378
" 379
" 380
" 381
U.D.
U.D.
U.D.
U.D.

The reports of the following twenty-one Lodges were correct, and
were accompanied by their dues, but were not transmitted within the
proper time :
Western Star,
Georgetown,
Ophir,
St, John's,
Forest,
Rose's Bar,
Sotoyome,
Nicolaus,
Vitruvius,
Lassen,
Claiborne,

No.

La Parfaite Union,
Volcano,
Gravt!I Range,
Elk Grove,
Northern Light,
Ferndale,
Buckeye,
Truckee,
Newville,
San Buena Ventura,
Oak Grove,
Granite,
San Mateo,
Magnolia,

No.

"
"
"
"
"
"

2
25
33
37
66
89
123
129
145
149
185

Janesville,
Reading,
Lodi,
North East,
Paso Robles,
Ontario,
Monrovia,
Emmanuel,
Needles,
Francis Drake,

No. 232
" 254
" 256
" 266
" 286
" 301
" 308
" 318
y
326
" 376

"
The reports of the following twenty-eight were transmitted within
the proper time, and were accompanied by their dues, but each requfred
corrections, which were duly made by the Secretaries upon being notified (sometimes more than once) by the Grand Secretary:

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

17 Fresno,
56 Selma,
59 South West,
173 Tyrian,
190 Traver,
193 Dunsmuir,
195 South Gate,
200 Long Beach,
205 Santa Maria,
214 San Fernando,
215 Willits,
222· Gardena,
226 Veteran,
242 Artesia,

No.247
" 277
" 283
" 284
" 294
" 297
" 320
" 327
" 340
" 343
" 365
" 372
" 373
" 377

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The reports of the following six Lodges were accompanied by the
dues, but were not transmitted within the proper time, and required
corrections, which have since been made:
No. 268
No. 140 Durant,
Curtis,
" 339
Fullerton,
" 175
Antioeh,
" 345
Brentwood,
250
"
Adin, ·

Allowed
Home
Rep'tvs.
Total.
Gen. Fund.
No.
Fund.
44 . ... $ 33450 $ 31000 $ 64450 $ .......
57 35
14170
75 70
45 . ...
6600
570
46 ....
3340
6540
3200
4285
50 . .' ..
8585
Forbe~town,
4300
1010
5070
51. ...
9676
Illinois town,
4600
340
12165
55 .. . .
20865
Suisun,
8700
3830
56 ....
Volcano,
7230
3400
2 so
27995
26100
57 ....
54095
Santa Rosa,
215 2S
660
58 . ...
19500
Union,
41025
2100
2295
Gravel Range,
59 ....
4395
4870
4600
9470
60 ....
Plumas,
63800
72010
1,35810
20
61. ...
Live Oak,
4180
4400
8580
1270
George Washington, 62 ....
6875
6500
133 75
64 . ...
900
Natoma,
lSl 25
6S . ...
762S
7500
1015
Amador,
3435
3300
67 35
66 ....
Forest,
17900
37305
19405
500
Morning Star,
68 . ...
175 35
15300
32835
920
Enterprise,
70 . ...
20305
1520
76 . ...
10405
9900
Bear Mountain,
15920
1210
8320
7600
78 .. ..
Calaveras,
2000
35800
30000
65800
79 . . . .
Humboldt,
S3 50
5000
10350
870
80 . ...
lone,
7325
81. . . .
3825
3500
Yolo,
6315
5700
12015
1310
83 .. ..
Rising Star,
30230
16830
13400
84 . .. .
Vesper,
315 10
25800
57310
200
87 .. . .
Naval,
5465
1860
2765
2700
83 ....
Quitman,
1220
7015
3700
10715
89 . . ..
Rose's Bar,
8700
3210
4700
4000
91. ...
North Star,
1300
3970
2600
6570
92 . .. .
Acacia,
16985
93 . ..
8685
8300
St. Helena,
6800
14060
1170
95 . ...
7260
Henry Clay,
7825
7500
15325
2860
96 . . ..
Howard,
2420
3615
3700
7315
97 ....
Jefferson,
3400
8030
98 . . ..
4630
Hornitos,
19805
9905
9900
920
99 . ...
La Grange,
5500
11825
1130
6325
101. . ..
Clay,
1650
3045
3100
6145
102 ....
Manzanita,
12'20
17625
135 00
31125
103 ....
Oroville,
135 25
3580
5500
8025
104 . . ..
Lexington,
20985
2090
10685
10300
106 ....
Arcata,
1200
2340
108 . .. .
1140
Owen,
125 00
2687S
143 75
110 .. ..
Pajaro,

668

The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of this juris"
diction were indebted, and which have all been paid, are as follows:Allowed
Home
Rep'tvs.
Total.
Fund.
Gen. Fund.
No.
Name.
1. ... $ 59900 $ 60000 $ 1,19900 $ .. .. ...
California,
2000
24423
115 co
129 25
2 .. . .
\I\' estern Star,
660
38000
18000
20000
3
....
Tehama,
200
23400
10600
128
70
5 . . ..
Benicia,
1320
293 75
14S
00
148
75
8
.
.
.
.
Tuolumne,
920
26005
119CO
i4105
9 . . ..
Corinthian,
2SO
63030
29400
336
30
10
..
..
San Jose,
300
27950
13000
149 50
12 . . ..
Yount,
14C-O
30965
147CO
16265
13
.
.
..
Nevada,
12610
5800
6810
14 . . ..
'Temple,
8 2(1
1396S
6700
7265
16 . ...
Eureka,
29240
13200
16040
17 .. . .
La Parfaite Union,
7800
3800
4010
18 . ...
Mountain Shade,
5 00
4S435
213
00
24135
19
..
..
San Joaquin,
660
23165
107
00
12465
20 ....
Washington,
sos
75
261
co
24475
21.
...
Hawaii~n,
1,103 lS
53700
56615
22 .. ..
Occidental,
1360
27050
13000
14050
23
....
Madison,
1650
116 4S
5100
6S 45
24 . . . .
Mariposa,
1220
9770
4600
51 70
2S . ...
Georgetown,
1340
33375
165CO
168 75
26 . ...
Palmyra,
13290
62CO
7090
27 . ...
Trinity,
93235
43300
4993S
30 . ...
Golden Gate,
780
105 3S
5300
52
3S
32 .. ..
Gold Hill,
12600
6000
66CO
33
....
Ophir;
3600
59560
26800
32760
3S . . . .
San Diego,
2860
20510
9800
10710
37
....
St. John's,
560
3820S
17900
2030S
38 . ...
Santa Cruz,
920
1809S
81
co
9995
39
.
..
.
Yuba,
660
39450
190 C-0
20450
40 ....
Sacramento,
200
25360
10800
14560
41. ...
Martinez,
3850
fJ6780
304CO
36380
42 ....
Los Angeles,
419S
2100
2095
43 ....
Hiram;

Name.
Mount Moriah,
Crescent,
Texas,

G69

670

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name.
Chico,
Summit,
Eden,
Mount Zion,
Concord,
Clinton,
Fidelity,
Alamo,
Sotoyome,
Table Mountain,
La Fayette,
Hermann,
Visalia,
Nicolaus,
Woodbridge,
Sincerity,
Yosemite,
Vacaville,
Valley,
Pacific,
Crockett,
Curtis,
Grafton,
Franklin,
Oriental,
Vitruvius,
Abell,
Eel River,
Lassen,
Molino,
Woodland,
Gibsonville,
Keystone,
Harmony,
Excelsior,
Alameda,
Redwood City,
Mission,
Elk Grove,
Drytown,
Antioch,
Phoenix
Mendocino,

Home
Allowed
·Total.
No.
Gen. Fund.
Fund.
Rep'tvs.
111. ... $ 20360 $ 16800 $ 37160 $ 1180
112 ....
4230
3400
7630
21410
70
113 ....
11610
9800
4300
114 ....
2300
2000
660
9700
201 lS
117 ....
104 lS
17 30
7S 2S
119 ....
402S
3S 00
497 so
947 so
120 ....
4SOOO
330
119 lS
122 ... .
6215
5700
4SO
1S085
14300
2938S
123 ....
55 00
1192S
1470
124 ....
6425
10810
9800
20610
126 ....
17800
36410
127 ....
18610
1450
128 ....
1S435
13300
287 3S
863S .
1S9 3S
129 ....
7300
S90
16S 8S
131. ...
8285
8300
8S lS
132 . ...
4815
3700
13 70
2100
4195
133 ....
809S
4('!0
134 ....
14S 05
11900
2640S
9465
4765
4700
690
135 ....
1,110 so
60050
51000
136 ... .
39770
32600
72370
139 ....
600
11720
140 .. . .
6120
S600
2700
S26S
2S65
141. ...
800
5900
1180S
143 ....
S90S
144 ....
36685
34300
7098S
11040
S840
5200
145 ....
28210
800
146 . .. .
16410
11800
2210
147 ....
131 S5
10900
240SS
189 so
3700
149 ....
9950
9000
S200
12440
12 20
lSO ....
7240
6 Hl
31310
1S6 ....
17S 10
13800
3S 10
158 ....
1710
1800
890S
7 40
5005
3900
161. ...
1400
3230
164 ... .
18'30
41200
8S340
lf6 ....
44140
20410
170
167 ....
10610
9800
19420
160
168 ....
9820
9600
9S060
82800
1,77860
169 ....
6200
12590
660
173 ....
6390
578S
12 70
174 ....
3485
2300
llS 95
8100
19695
17S ....
23420
21600
4S020
38SO
178 ... .
lSS 90
12200
27790
lS 00
179 ....

GRANP LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

.......

671

Home
Allowed
Name.
No.
Gen. Fund.
Fund.
Total.
Rep'tvs.
Petaluma,,
180 .... $ 216 70 $ 20600 $ 42270 $
200
Russian River,
181. ...
764S
7100
1474S
340
Meridian,
182 ....
4480
4400
8880
Clear Lake,
183 ....
30SO
3000
60SO
lOSO
Sierra Valley,
184 ....
39 lS
3700
76 lS
2240
Claiborne,
18S ....
448S
4300
878S
lS 00
Evening Star, .
186 ....
.3S lS
3700
72 lS
3340
Keith,
187 ... .
8480
8400
16880
440
Oakland,
188 ....
52265
42700
94965
20
Northern Light,
190 ....
8420
S600
14020
1680
Marin,
191. ...
20650
lSOOO
3S6SO
70
Santa Barbara,
192 ....
126 SS
10900
23S SS
3080
Ferndale,
193 . ...
1083S
9300
20135
23SO
Mountain View,
194 ....
7900
6000
13900
230
Buckeye,
19S ....
85 ~s
7700
16215
5 60
San Simeon,
196 ....
344S
31 co
6S45
24SO
Wilmington,
198 ....
3830
3400
7230
35 70
Hartley,
199 ....
106 so
9000
19650
1210
Truckee,
200 ....
1214S
l1100
23245
1660
Silveyville,
201. ...
S9 lS
5700
11615
490
Pentalpha,
202 ....
S747S
S2500
1,09975
3500
Confidence,
203 ... .
228S
2300
4S8S
Salinas,
204 ....
14630
13400
28030
650
Newville,
20S ....
418S
4300
8485
1390
Stanislaus,
206 ....
8160
6800
14960
620
Anaheim,
207 ..... 790S
S900
1380S
35 60
Rio Vista,
208 ....
740S
S900
1330S
200
King. David's,
. 209 ....
1236S
10700
2306S
lS 30
Friendship,
210 ....
26900
24000
50900
2SO
San Bef\ito,
211. ...
982S
9SOO
1932S
S60
South S. Francisco, 212 ....
227 55
16900
396SS
San Buenaventura, 214 ... .
117 3S
9300
2103S
3300
Oak Grove,
215 ... .
S003S
43300
93335
20
Doric,
216 ....
44630
39400
84030
Monterey,
217 . ...
8470
()6 00
1S070
600
Mosaic,
218 ....
lOOSS
8900
189SS
2SO
Speranza Italiana,
219 ... .
17040
1S200
32240
Downey,
220 .. ..
Sl SS
4900
lOOSS
3S ()()
Inyo,
221. ...
485S
4900
97 SS
63.50
Granite,
222 ....
6300
6000
12300
740
Bakersfield,
224 ....
2130S
17900
3920S
2220
Brooklyn,
22S ....
27105
21900
49005
20
San Mateo,
226 ....
11080
8400
19480
120

672

' PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Allowed
Home
Rep'tvs.
Gen. ]fund.
Fund. · Total.
No.
Name.
5 50
5700 $ 12715 $
7015 $
228 .... $
Athens,
200
29590
14200
15390
229 ....
Solano,
1020
137 85
6300
7485
230 ....
North Butte,
21 (JO
4800
4860
9660 .
231. ...
Covelo,
37 50
9300
5300
4000
232 ....
Janesville,
460
135 80
6400
7180
233 ....
Calistoga,
3060
113 25
5825
5500
234 . . ..
Hope,
5300
5950
3000
2950
235 ....
Surprise Valley,
800
103 55
54 55
4900
236 ....
Hills Ferry,
17
70
!0385
4300
6085
237
...
.
Guadalupe,
880
16590
8200
8390
240 ....
Colusa,
3700
475 75
22500
25075
241. . ..
Santa Ana,
16230
3080
7400
8830
242 .. . .
Magnolia,
20470
8600
118 7.0
243 ....
Eucalyptus,
20
. 32000
72000
244 ....
40000
Alcatraz,
1000
169-80
8400
8580
245 .. ..
Laurel,
3700
37645
171 00
20545
246 . ...
Pomona,
1180
64160
28800
35360
247 ....
Fresno,
5050 .
9085
4300
4785
248 •...
Alturas,
6245
3100
3145
250 ....
Adin,
7410
3800
3610
252 . ...
Bodie,
640
7335
3300
4035
253 ....
Landmark,
1500
26900
12000
254 ....
14900
Reading,
15 10
16425
7500
8925
255 ....
Welcome,
590
24355
10900
134 55
256 ....
Lodi,
7 70
113 35
5300
6035
258 ....
Penrhyn,
3850
46885
22300
245 85
259 .. . .
Evergreen,
1,04940
49200
557 40
260 .. . .
King Solomon's,
850
10930
·5400
55 30
261. .. .
Tuscan,
137 55
6900
6855
262 ....
Lompoc,
18 50
27825
163 25
11500
264 .. ..
Hesperian,
. 55 00
116 25
6125
265 ....
Orland,
5950
7125
·3500
3625
266 ....
North East,
650
7630
3400
4230
267 ....
Galt,
20
80805
35900
44905
268 ....
Durant,
14 50
235 70
10600
12970
269 . ...
Olive Branch,
13 30
5265
2700
25 65
271. ...
Snow Mountain,
3550
71160
32800
38360
272 ....
Pasadena,
35 70
12610
5800
6810
273 ....
Anchor,
1460
9765
4700
5065
274 ....
Arroyo,
7 70
5200
10940
57 40
275 ....
Oakdale,
12 70
19635
103 35
9300
277 .. . .
Selma,
1,31660
3500
62800
68860
Southern California, 278 ....

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Name.
Hanford,
Madera,
Mt. Shasta,
Callayomi,
South \Vest,
Tyrian,
San Miguel,
Paso Robles,
'\Vinnedumah,
Maxwell,
Elsinore,
East Gate,
Santa Paula,
Los Gatos,
Orange Grove,
Traver,
Mt. Jackson,
Silver Gate,
Dunsmuir,
Mokelumne Hill,
Liberty,
Redlands,
Ontario,
Santa L~cia,
Porterville,
Reedley,
Azusa,
Ashlar,
Santa Monica,
Monrovia,
Delano,
Sisson,
Los Banos,
Tehachapi,
Temescal,
Norwalk,
Sariger,
Fallbr.ook,
Emmanuel,
Hollenbeck,
South Gate,
'Alisal,
Alhambra,

67~

Home
Allowed
No.
Gen. Fund.
Fund.
Total.
Rep'tvs.
279 .... $ 145 50 $ 13000 $ 275 50 $ 1380
280 ....
8975
8500
174 75
1050
281. ...
3815
75 15
3700
282 ....
35 30
3400
6930
800
283 ....
6230
5400
11630
3600
284 ....
3740
3200
6940
285 .. ..
5290
4200
9490
1190
286 ....
8460
6800
152 60
1240
287 . ...
8385
6300
14685
5400
288 ....
2185
2300
4485
900
289 ....
48 75
45 00
9375
4200
290 . ...
47380
36400
83780
35 00
291. ...
10725
9500
20225
3600
292 ....
6905
5900
128 05
330
293 ....
10180
8400
185 80
3690
294 ... .
32 35
3300
65 35
13 30
295 ....
5230
5400
10630
5 00
296 ....
21980
16400
38380
3600
297 ....
10930
9400
20330
2020
298 ....
6395
6100
12495
299 ....
17065
14700
31765
250
. 300 ... .
185 35
17300
35835
3910
301. ...
11035
9300
20335
3940
302 ....
5090
4200
9290
303 ... .
153 30
11400
267 30
1700
304 ....
5390
4200
9590
1430
305 ....
95 15
7700
17215
35 50
306 ....
9145
9100
18245
3850
307 ....
10425
9500
19925
35 50
308 ....
8135
7300
15435
3600
309 . ...
35 35
3300
6835
1630
310 ....
8675
65 00
15175
2130
312 ....
3635
3300
6936
313 . ...
9590
8200
17790
2610
314 ....
9035
7300
163 35
3930
315 ....
6090
4200
10290
316 ....
8840
7200
16040
13 30
317 ....
23 75
2500
4875
318 . .. .
53 70
4600
9970
10 "ti
319 ... .
55820
39600
95420
35 00
320 ....
67400
44000
1,11400
3500
321. . . .
4205
3900
8105
220
' 10000
322 ....
16200
26200
3550

674

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name.

Whittier,
Corona,
Consuelo,
Needles,
Long Beach,
Redondo,
Vallee de France,
Kilauea,
Pacific Grove,
San Pedro,
Alta,
Covina,
West Gate,
Fruitvale,
Carquinez,
San Jacinto,
Fullerton,
Santa Maria,
Oxnard,
Manila,
San Fernando,
Starr King,
Brentwood,
Palo Alto,
McKinley,
San Bernardino,
Sequoia,
Cavite,
Palestine,
Sunset,
Pinole,
Presidio,
Hollywood,
Mill Valley,
Buena Park,
Golden State,
Loyalton,
San Francisco,
Fort Bragg,
Charity,
Berkeley,
Olivet,
Willits,

No.

Gen. Fund.

323 .... $
324 ....
32S ....
326 .. . .
327 ....
328 ....
329 ....
330 ....
331. .. .
332 ....
333 ....
334 .. ..
33S ....
336 ....
337 . ...
338 .. ..
339 ....

.. 340 .. . .
341. ...
342 ....
343 . ...
344 ....
34S ....
346 ....
347 ....
348 ....
349 .. ..
3SO ....
3Sl ....
3S2 . . . .
3S3 ....
3S4 .. ..
3SS ....
3S6 ... .
3S7 ....
3S8 ....
3S9 ....

360 . . ..
361. . . .
362 ....
363 . ...
364 ....
36S ....

147 6S $
312 70
7210
83 70
2993S
978S
6170
1062S
S09S
115 7S
409S
7S 80
40090
1S8 3S
907S
708S
10920
837S
1769S
2672S
S8 so
20S SS
4970
14140
120SO
21860
3S3SO
947S
21340
2066S
8400
2027S
130 lS
12970
S080
240 lS
so lS
21880
7290
4800
2S6SS
S49S
SS80

Home
Fund.·

671)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Total.

12700 $
24600
S800 .
6600
23300
8300
4600
11900
4100
lOSOO
4100
6400
30200
11300
6S 00
S300
9600
6SOO
16100
23S 00
sooo
16900 .
4600
112 00
9000
18800
21000
6900
1S200
12700
6000
14S 00
9700
8600
4400
1S700
3700
14400
6200
4000
14900
4100
4400

Allowed
Rep'tvs.

2746S $
SS870
13010
14970
SJ23S
18085
10770
22S 2S
919S
2207S
8195
13980
70290
2713S
lSS 7S
1338S
20S 20
148 7S
3379S
S022S
108 so
374SS
9S 70
2S340
210SO
40660
S63SO
163 7S
36S 40
333 6S
14400
3477S
227 lS
21S 70
9480
397 lS
87 lS
36280
13490
8800
40S SS
9S9S
9980

3S so
3S so
44SS
S810
3S so
3S so
3SOO
630
3S so
S760
3640
3S 00
20
180
4200
3600
18 so
3300

190
80
38SO
20
3SOO
3SOO
140
3S 00
80
3S 00
17 40

.

1700
300
20
1170
1000

Name.

No.

Gen. Fund.

Las Palmas,
'366 .... $
South Pasadena,
367 ....
Unity,
368 ....
Ocean Park,
369 ....
Amity,
370 ....
Oceanic,
371. ...
Gardena,
372 ....
Veteran,
373 ....
Jewel,
374 ....
Richmond,
37S ....
Francis Drake,
376 ....
Artesia,
377 ....
Mizpah,
378 . ...
Fillmore,
379 ....
Huntington Beach, 380 ....
Oceanside,
381. ...
Highland Park,
U.D ....
Orosi,
U.D ....
El Centro,
U . D ....
Dinuba,
U.D ....
Corregidor,
U . D ....
Coalinga,
U.D ....
Parnassus,
U.D ....
Palo Verdes,
U.D ....

197 lS $
77 3S
117 30
11460
19610
10000
7S OS
7640
91 SS
218 so
44SS
424S
31S OS
484S
3680
299S
168 SS
427S
82 lS
64SO
397S
49SO
1S4SO
2S9S

Home
Fund.

Total.

Allowed
Rep'tvs.

11700 $ 314 lS $
S300
1303S
191 30
7400
18260
6800
9800
29410
11600
21600
3900
1140S
7200
14840
4900
140SS
9000
308SO
2900
73 SS
3100
734S
11900
4340S
3100
794S
2400
6080
2100
S09S
6900
237 SS
25 00
677S
3700
119 lS
3000
94SO
2SOO
647S
3000
- 79 so
sooo
204SO
2100
469S

1180
3S so
3S so
3S so

3S so
3S so

70
3SSO
3S so
3600
3600
3SOO
1480
S4SO
1660
2080
3S so

Making total dues . .... $43,378 70 $36,12600 $79,S04 70 $4,Sl47v
The following is the numerical standing of the ten largest Lodges
in this Grand Jurisdiction:·
Mission Lodge, No. 169 .... . .................. 828
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. . . ..... .. ..... . ...... 638
Southern California Lodge, No. 278 ............ 628
California Ledge, No. 1 . . . .................... 600
Occidental Lodge, No. 22 ................... . .. S37
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ..................... S2S
·Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ........... . ............ SlO
King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260 .............. .492
Fidelity Lodge, No. 120 . ...................... 4SO
South Gate Lodge, No. 320 ................ .. . . 440
making a total membership in the ten largest Lodges of S,648, as
against a membership of S,498 in the ten largest Lodges one year ago.
The largest net gain in membership was 93, made by South Gate
Lodge,. No. 320, situated in Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

676

677

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Congratulations are again due this Grand B_ody and the Subordinate
Lodges of this Jurisdiction on the splendid increase in membership
during the year just closed.
Our net gain in membership during the last t;n years has been
as follows :
1898 . . . .... . ......... . . .. . . ................ . 734
1899 . . . . ... ... ......... .. ... : .. ...... . . . .. . 900
19C-O . ... . ... . .. .. ..... . . . ....... . . . .. .• . .. . 1, 137
1901 ......... . . . .......... .. .......... .. . .. 1,197
1902 . ... . . .... ..... ...... . . .... ............ l,959
1903 ... . .. .. .... . .......... .... . ... ... ..... 2,343
1904 ..... . . . . ... . . ..... . .. .. . .. . .. . . . . . .. . . 2,390
1905 .. .... ... . ... .. ... . . . ..... . . . . . .. .. ... . 2,240
19C6 ....... . ... . ........ . .... .. .. . .... . . ... 2,208
1907 . . ..... . . . . . .. .. . . .. . ... . ...... . ... . . . . 2,357
Thus it will be seen that the increase in membership during the
year just closed has been exceeded but once, and then only by 33,
which was in the year 1904, when a large accession of members was
added by unusual activity in the Philippine Islands.
Your Committee finds that the returns and reports a re p'r operly
preserved, and that their contents are conveniently and handsomely
tabulated and recorded in the books of the Grand Secretary.
The Grand Secretary and his assistant have earned the thanks and
appreciation of this Committee for their efforts in presentnig in a
concise and available manner the facts and statistics for this report.
Respectfuhy submitted,
WM. PARRISH . JEFFRIES, l
JAMES C. POTTLE,
JoHN. P. JARMAN,
· Committee.
.CARLTON c. CASE,
ERNEST c. BONNER,

f

J

\ Vhich was concurred in.
Bro. George F . Rodden presented the following report:
To the M :·. W.". Grand L odge of California:
Your Committee, to whom has been assigned the pleasant duty of
reporting upon the Address of the Most Worshipful Grand Master,
annourn;es the completion of its task
In reviewing this most excellent article, we can only record our
unqualified commendation of the sentiments and ideals contained in the
document and congratulate the Grand Lodge upon hay.ing selected as its

highest officer a man who has occupied the exalted station with so much
grace, dignity and ability.
We recommend that the action of the Most Worshipful Grand
Master with regard to the General Masonic Relief Fund, be approved
and especially commend the return of the moneys not needed for the
relief work to the various generous donors. In an age that has been
denominated an "Age of Money" it is at least an indication from this
Masonic Body that commercialism has not invaded our sacred precincts,
and this act of our Most Worshipful Grand Master will exemplify to
the world that we do not merely profess great principles, but that we
put into active practice the teachings of our Craft.
We recommend that a special committee of three be appointed on
Necrology, that the memories of our departed ones may , be more
particularly honored by this Grand Body.
We recommend that the portion of the Gran·d Master's address
dealing with decisions be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
We desire particularly to call att~ntion to that portion of the
Address under the head "Visits." It is a record which clearly demonstrates his conscientiousness in the discharge of every duty and ·should
call for special commendation on the part of this Grand Lodge. It is
a fitting cc·nclusion to an introduction which breathes the noblest
thoughts and in hearing it one can only feel the pulsations of a true
~fasonic heart.
Brother Hart's address is Free Masonry from beginning to end and
will occupy in the minds and hearts of all who heard or may read it,
a lasting place.
The Grand Secretary's report which was also submitted to this
Committee is, as his preceding ones have been, a model of clearness and
conciseness and . is a lesson in precision. The knowledge that its
clerical affairs are in such truly diligent and efficient hands, must" be
very comforting to this Grand Lodge and is in itself a cause for much
congratulation.
We recommend that the section referring to dispensations be
referred to the Committee on Charters.
Respectfully submitted,
J ACOil NIETO,
l
w. FRANK PIERCE,
WM. P . FILMER,
Committee.
A. J . MONROE,
GEo. F. RoDDEN,

·f

J

\Vhich was concurred in and the recommendation
adopted.

678

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bro. Carlton C. Case presented the following:
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Grand' Lodge that Durant
Lodge, No. 268, and all other Lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction, except
such as by consent use a foreign language, should strictly conform to
the work as adopted by this Grand Lodge, and
Resolved, further, that the Grand Master and Grand _Lecturer are
hereby requested to execute the law strictly in this regard.
·

Which was adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock
tomorrow morning.

3Ju ~rauh 14nhgr.
Morning Session,
l
Thursday, October rnth, A. L. 5907. 5
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
. Bro. William J. Golcher, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following additional officers of chartered Lodges, and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction, as being present and entitled to seats, viz: from
San Jose ........ . No. 10 .. R. LowE, Past Master.
San Joaquin ..... " 19 .. W. A. DAvrEs, Past Grand Master.
San Diego ....... " 35 .. E. J. Lours, Past Master.
S anta R osa... .. . " S7. ·{ELBERT R. SAWYER,MMaster.
C. A. LANE, Past aster.
Ione ............ " 80 .. J. MARCHANT, Past Master.
Rising Star...... " 83 .. K. CHESHOLM, Past Master.
Vesper .......... " 84 .. G. L. ALLEN, Past Master.
Naval ........... " 87 .. GLEN D. DrcKEY, Junior Warden.
Pajaro .......... " 110 .. WILLIAM H. BENTEEN, Master.
Russian River . . . " 181 .. T. M. YATES, Past Master and Rep'tive.
Claiborne . . . . . . . " 185.. J. C. LANE, Past Master.
Brooklyn ........ " 225 .. WALTER J. PETERSEN, Senior Warden.
Mt. Jackson ...... " 295 .. I. McGuFFIN, Past Master.
Dunsmuir ....... " 297 .. G. W. McCoY, Past Master.
Consuelo ........ " 325 .. WM. W. CARPENTER JR., Master and P. M.
Fort Bragg ...... " 361 .. }ORN E. WELLER, Master and Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

679

Which report was concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
The M.". w:. William A. Davies appeared and took
his seat.

M:. W.". Orrin S. Henderson presented a statement of
assets and expenditures, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Bro. John F. Hughes, President of Masonic Home at
San Gabriel, presented the following:
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
DEAR BRETHREN-Though no request has been made for us to
report to the Grand Lodge the work of the Southern California Masonic Home for this year, we feel that you should know what we are
doing. \Ve now have twelve inmates. We have had three deaths during
the last ten months.
We had on hand Dw.:mber 1st, 1906 .............. $5,051 57
Received from all sources. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,018 22
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9,069 99
Paid out in ten months for expenses and betterment
(Fuel and light paid for next twelve months...
5,251 33
Balance Trust funds ............................. $3,750 00
Balance General funds. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
68 66
September 25, 1907, balance on hand. . . . . .
$3,818 66
'Ve are at work trying to secure an endowment of $100,000 participated in by all the Lodges of Southern California. There is little
doubt of our success within the next six months.
To help us reach this endowment we earnestly request your Grand
Body to make us a donation of $5,000 which we confidently believe will
be the last.
By Order of the Board of Directors,
W. B. SCARBOROUGH, Secretary.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The M:. w:. Edmund C. Atkinson, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following
reports:
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee have had under consideration the communication
of the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan asking for recognition from the

680

681

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Grand Lodge of California and now beg leave to report that this new
Grand Lodge is an outgrowth of the Grand Lodg!! of Manitoba and is
located in the province of Saskatchewan.
The Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan was duly formed by the
requisite number of subordinate Lodges which had wi:hdrawn from
the Grand Lodge of Manitoba, and as it has received the approval of
the last named Grand Lodge, as evidenced by the fact that its first
Grand Officers were installed by the Grand Master and the Grand
Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Manitoba, it is apparent that said
Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan is regulady constituted.
We therefore recommend that fraternal recognition be extended
by the Grand Lodge of Califotnia, and that a representative of 6e
Grand Lodge of California near the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan be
named.

In the matter of a trial transferred from San Bernardino Lodge,
No. 348, to Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, the Grand Master says : "The only
important question of procedure involved is the decision of the Grand
Master which is. submitted for approval-That San Bernardino Lodge
had by virtue· of its action in ordering its Junior Warden to prefer the
charges disqualified itself from trying the same."
While your committee are not willing to establish the general rule
that a Lodge by ordering its Junior Warden to prefer charges thereby
renders itself disqualified from trying the case, yet in this particular
instance your committee find good and sufficient reasons in the correspondence of San Bernardino Lodge with the Grand.Master to justify
the transfer of the trial to Phoenix Lodge, No. 178, and commend his
wisdom in so acting.
All which is respectfully submitted,

In the matter of the communication addressed to this Grand Lodge
by the Grand Secretary of New York, your Committee are pleased to
report that the invasion of the jurisdictional rights of the Grand Lodge
of New York bv the Grand Lodge of Hamburg, on account of which
all Masonic co~munication between the Lodges and Masons of this
jurisdiction and those acknowledging allegiance to the Grand Lodge of
Hamburg was forbidden in the year 1855, having now ceased, fraternal
relations can be restored, inasmuch as the Grand Lodge of Hamburg has
within the past year recalled tlfe charter of the Lodge established by
it in New York City.
We therefore recommend that friendly relations be entered into
with the Gr:and Lodge of Hamburg.
Respectfully submitted,

c.

EDMUND
ATKINSON,.}
JAMES W. ANDERSON,
SAMUEL C. DENSON,
GEORGE
HUNTER,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,

w.

v\ hich was concurred in and the recommendations
adopted.

w:.

. The M.".
MQtley H. Flint, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
IN THE MATTER OF THE TRANSFER OF TRIAI:;S.

For sufficient reasons shown the Grand Master transferred a trial
from Excelsior Lodge, No. 166, to California Lo~ge, 1'l" o. 1.

c.

EDMUND
ATKINSON, }
JAMES W. ANDERSON,
SAMUEL C. DENSON,
Committee.
GEORGE
HUNTER,
.
MOTLEY H. FLINT,

w.

\Vhich was concurred in.

w:.

The M:.
Edmund C. Atkinson, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee have under consideration the following decisions
made by the Grand Master and beg to report as follows :
The question was asked: "When an ·objection has been made to
the advancement of an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft and the
Committee has reported, how should the vote of the Lodge be taken?"
To this the Grand Master answered substantially as follows:
"The same reasons which impelled the Grand Lodge at the Annual
Communication of 1906 to adopt the resolution providing for secrecy of
Committees of Investigation clearly indicate that voting upon objection
to advancement should be by secret ballot and not by a sh.ow of hands,
for by a show of hands the brothers voting would be obliged to expo~e
their ballots. Owing to the" impracticability of voting by ball and cube,
the ballot should be taken by slips of paper on each of which should
be written 'Yes' or 'No.' "
10

682

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A Past !v1aster addressed a letter to the Grand Master in substance
as follows:
"A Lodge in this city, acting upon the authority of Section 935
of Decisions as given in Anderson's Manual, page 389, admitted a
sojourning brother on avouchment of one of its. members wjio had
recently sat with him in a Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. A few days
thereafter the brother was taken sick and was cared for by the Board
of Relief. A brother attending him wished to notify his Lodge and
asked the name of the Lodge and the address of the Secretary. It then
developed that the brother had been dimitted from his Lodge in one
of the Eastern States for nearly four years.
"It seems to me that the decision quoted is doubtful authority and·
I therefore ask you to decide as to the necessary prerequisites for
avouchment."
The Grand Master answered as follows :· "No Mason can rightfully
vouch for a visiting brother unless he shall have sat with him m vpen
Lodge or shall have examined him under proper authority."
A Lodge Secretary asked the following questions :
"When should a request for a waiver of jurisdiction be acted upon:
at the same meeting when presented, or should it lie over until the
next stated meeting? If it should lie over should Committee be appointed? If the Lodge refuses to waive jurisdiction can another Lodge
holding concurrent jurisdiction receive and act upon an application
from the same applicant ,within one year from the time the former
Lodge rejected the application?"
The Grand Master answered :
"In reply to your question as to ~hether a request for waiver of
jurisdiction should be acted upon by the Lodge at the same meeting
when presented, I would say that it should not be so acted upon, but
should lie over for a month and a committee should be appointed to
investigate; first, as to whether or not the Lodge to which the request
for waiver is addressed actually possesses jurisdiction, and secondly,
if the reasons alleged by the applicant as to why a waiver is desired
are good and sufficient. This report can only be rendered at a stated
meeting succeeding the one when the request is received, and the Lodge
can only act intelligently in the light of the information received therefrom. If the Lodge to which the request for waiver of jurisdiction
has been made, refuses to grant the waiver·asked, another Lodge holding
concurrent jurisdiction cannot within twelve months receive and act
upon a request from the same applicant."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

683

ANNITI;RSARY DATE.

To the question, "What is the Anniversary Date of a Lodge?" the
of Lodge Le Progress de l'Oce.inie, No. 124, A. and A. S. R., the Past
Grand Master answered:
'
"Unquestionably the date of its dispensation. This question was so
decided unanimously by this Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of 1903, as appears by the Proceedings, but for some reason this
decision was overlooked in the Digest of Decisions contained in
Anderson's Manual."
STATUS OF PAST MASTERS OF 0cltANIC Looot.

The question was asked, "If the Past Masters of old Lodge Le
Progres de I'Oceanic, No. 124, A. and A. S. R., are to be considered as
Past Masters within the meaning of that term as defined in onr
Constitution?''
His reply thereto was to the effect that inasmuch as Oceanic Lodge,
No. 371, is in every sense of the word the successor under a new name
Masters by service in the old Lodge are to be regarded in the light of
Past Masters by service in Oceanic Lodge, No. 371, and as such are
entitled to all the rights and privileges as Past Masters of the
jurisdiction.
GARDENA LoDGE AND THE Los ANGELES BoARD oF RELIEF.

Early this year an election was held by the qualified electors of the
City of Los Angeles and a portion of Los Angeles County which
resulted in the annexing to the City of Los Angeles of a portion of land
one-half mile wide and some twenty miles long, known as the "shoe
string strip." This strip severed the township and village of Gardena
and included the Lodge-room of Gardena Lodge, No. 372. When this
"shoe string strip" was declared a part of the municipality of Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Board of Relief sent a communication to
Gardena Lodge, asking that it appoint a committee of representatives
on the Los Angeles Board of Relief and hold concurrent jurisdiction.
It seems that Gardena Lodge did appoint such committee and after two
or three meetings with the Los Angeles Board of Relief protested
against being named as a City Lodge, and evidently acting upon Grand
Lodge Decision No. 482 :
"A Masonic Lodge cannot hold it!! meetings in a hall situated in a
town or village other than that in which it is sought by dispensation to
establish the Lodge,"
And realizing that it was within the city limits of Los Angeles,
moved into another block beyond the line of the "shoe string strip-";

684

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

whereupon Los Angeles Board of Relief asked the Grand Master to
·state whether or not Gardena is properly within the joint jurisdiction of
the Lodges of Los Angeles and included in the ·membership of the
Masonic Board of Relief of that city.
The Grand Master's answer was as follows: "The charter to
Gardena Lodge, No. 372, was issued to a Lodge in the town. of Gardena,
and in moving its Lodge-room into the town of Gardena it committed,
in our opinion, no infraction of our ·law. Gardena Lodge could not
have acquired joint jurisdiction with the Lodges of the City of Los
Angeles and have become a member of the Masonic Board of Relief of
that city without first amending its By-La.;,.s and raising its fees for
degrees to the minimum allowed by our Constitution where joint
jurisdiction is held with other Lodges. No amendment of this character
was ever presented to me for my official approval, without which it
would not become effective, and for this reason, if no other, Gardena's
attempted recognition of the jurisdiction of your Board was premature
and _improper.
In addition to the reasons above set forth, it is our belief that it
would be improper for the town of Gardena to hold concurrent jurisCJ.i.<;tion with the Lodges of the City of .Los Angeles, and we hardly
think that Gardena Lodge is open to criticism for moving its Lodgeroom into the town of Gardena and out of the so-called "shoe string
strip."
All these decisions are approved by your Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
EDMUND c. ATKINSON, }
JAMES
ANDERSON,
SAMUEL C. DENSON,
. Committee.
GEORGE w. HUNTER,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,

w.

The report on the second decision; relative to avouchment, was re-referred to the committee, the balance of the
report was concurred in.

•

The M.". W.". Motley H. Flint presented the following:
RESOLVED, That Section 11, of Article III, Part III, of the Constitution be and is hereby amended to read as follows :
Sec. 11. No Lodge shall expel a member for the non-payment of
dues; but, in case an( member shall have refused or neglected to pay
his regular dues during a period of twelve months he shall be notified
by the Secretary, either by registered letter or by actual service of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

685

notice, duly certified by the Tyler, that unless at the next stated
meeting either his dues be paid or sickness or inability to pay be shown
as the cause of such refusal or neglect, he will be suspended from all
the rights and privileges of .Masonry. If neither of these' things be
done, he shall at such stated meeting be declared by the Master to be
suspended, unless for· special reasons shown the Lodge shall remit his
dues or grant him further time for their payment: But any Mason thus
suspended who shall at any time pay the arrearages due at the' time of
his suspension, together with such further dues as would, had he
retained his membership, have accrued against him to the date of such
payment, or who shall have had such arrearages and dues remitted l:iy
his Lodge, shall by either of these acts be restored.
Provided, That should any member suspended for non-payment of
dues neglect for the period of two years to pay said dues or have the
same remitted by his Lodge, said member shall not be restored except
by a three-fourths vote by ballot of all the members present at the next
stated meeting after the petition for restoration is presented.
Any Secretary failing or neglecting to comply with the require~ents
of this section relative to notifying delinquent~ shall be subject to
discipline by his Lodge for neglect of duty.

'i\Thich was referred to the Committee o'n Jurisprudence.
The M.". W.". Geo. W. Hunter, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
.
To the M." · w: · Grand Lodge pf California:
Your Committee have had under consideration the action of the
Grand Master in granting dispensations during the year and respectfully report as follows :
'vVe find that one dispensation was for . permission to elect a
Secretary, two to elect Wardens, four to ~lect Junior Wardens, two to
elect Senior Wardens, seventeen to elect all the elective officers, one to
ballot upon a petition without reference to a committee and fourteen
to rel:iallot upon rejected applications for the degrees.
.
In all cases we find that the Grand Master has acted in accordance
with the Constitution and in strict conformity with our usages .
It is our recommendation that his action be approved·.
Respectfully submitted,

E. c. ATKINSON,}
J. W. ANDERSON,
G. W. HUNTER,
Committee.
S. C. DENSON,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
.
'

Which was adopted.

686

687

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The W.'. John D. Murphy, Chairman of the Committee
on Grievances, ,presented the following reports :

No facts or circumstances are made to appear in the records
substantiating the charges that said Commissioners were biased or
prejudiced.
Accused complains that his demand for a list of the Trial Commissioners, made several days prior to the date' fixed for the trial,. was
denied by the Master of California Lodge; assuming that this is true,
it could not in any wise have prejudiced his case. If he seriously
believed that some of the Commissioners were prejudiced against him ..
and desired to present the facts of such disqualification, no doubt a
reasonable continuance would have been granted him for that purpose.
We have carefully examined the evidence taken before the Commission and are not disposed to interfere with its findings. We therefore· offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the action of C£.lifornia Lodge, No. 1, in expelling
Harry ]. Lask from all rights and privileges of a Mason be, and the
same hereby is affirmed.
·

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the transcrips of the
records in the following cases, in which no appeals have been taken,
have had the same under consideration and find that the proceedings
have all been conducted in substantial conformity to our laws and that
the respective judgments are supported by the evidence:
George T. Greenleaf, expelled by Redlands Lodge, No. 300;
Barton Williard Johnson, expelled by Truckee Lodge, No. 200;
John Marshal Atkinson, suspended by Welcome Lodge, No. 255;
John W. Roland, expelled by Salinas Lodge, No. 204; A. B. Olson,
suspended by Hartley Lodge, No. 199; Howard M. Stearns, expelled
by Benicia Lodge, No . .5; Richard W. Drum, suspended by Santa Cruz
Lodge, No. 38; Stimulous Miles Loveland, suspended by Mendocino
Lodge, No. 179; Robert A. Lindsay, expelled by Palestine Lodge, No.
341; Normand Alexander Bailie, expelled by Phoenix Lodge, No. 178;
Robert N. Goeritz, expelled by Chico Lodge, No.· 111; George M.
Dwyer, expelled by Fresno Lodge, No. 247; H. V. Swain, expelled by
Berkeley Lodge, No. 363.

VI' e therefore offer the following resolution and recomme1!-d its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the several Lodges upon the cases
herein above particularly specified be and the same hereby is affirmed.

Your' Committee, tq whom was referred the Trial Records in the
case of Harry J. Lask, of Excelsior Lodge, No. 166, and expelled by
California Lodge, No. 1, on charges of Unmasonic conduct preferred
by his own Lodge, and from which judgment the accused has filed a
notice of appeal, have had the same under consideration, and report as
follows:
The Trial Commissioners have found the accused guilty on three
of the six charges 'of Unmasonic conduct and on the charge, and fixed
the penalty· at expulsion.
The records and proceedings of the Trial Commission ar'e strictly
in accordance with our laws and usages, and the appellant has called.
our attention to no error that in any way affects his substantial rights.
Objection was made by the accused, who appeared by attorney, to
two of the Trial Commissioners, which objections were properly
overruled.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition of Joseph
Daniel J ourden, of Nome, Alaska, praying for restoration by this
Grand Lodge to the rights and privileges of Freemasonry, beg leave
to report as follows :
·
It appears from said petition that the petitioner was made a Master
Mason by Mission Lodge, No. 169, in the year 1885; that thereafter
and while within the jurisdiction of Abell Lodge, No. 146, F. & A. M.,
he was summoned by the last named• Lodge to answer charges of
Unmasonic conduct.
That he app~ared in obedience to said summons, and after the
hearing was expelled by said Abell Lodge on or about December
24, 1894.
That he never appealed fr.om the judgment of expulsion and until
now has never taken any steps to secure his restoration to the rights
and privileges of Masoni'y.
That soon after his expulsion he left California and since the year
1900 has been a resident of Nome, Alaska.
That he has duly notified both of the above named Lodges of his
intention to apply to this Grand Body for restoration, and further that
he acknowledges the justice of the sentence and says that he has been
taught a severe and wholesome lesson.
He accompanies his petition with a large number of letters written
by members of the Fraternity residing at Nome, most highly commending him both as a· man and as a citizen.

688

689

PROCEEDINGS O;F THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The record in this matter fails to disclose the nature of the offense
for which the petitioner was suspended. Taking the record before us,
and assuming that due notice was _given by petitioner, as he alleges, to •
Abell Lodge of his intention to apply to this Grand Lodge for his
restoration, your Committee is of the opinion that it would perhaps be
but the exercise of proper Masonic Charity to reinstate the petitioner.
It is perhaps proper to state that your Committee has been informed
. by the Grand Secretary, that the records of his office show that the
petitioner was suspended and not expelled; at the same time the Master
of Abell Lodge assures your Committee that the records of that Lodge
show that he was expelled.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the Trial Record in the
case of John James Hagerty, suspended by Vacaville Lodge, No. 134,
beg leave to report as follows :
The accused was suspended on September 28th, 1906, for Unma. sonic conduct in applying opprobrious epithets to a Master Mason in
good standing and a member of said Lodge. . The time for appeal not
having expired, your Committee took no action upon the record at the
last Convocation of this Grand Lodge.
Since that time and under date of March 28th, 1907, the Secretary
of Vacaville Lodge has certified to the Grand Secretary that said Lodge
_has restored the brother to all the rights and privileges of Maso1!ry.
We · therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Vacaville Lodge, No. 134, in suspending Brother John James Hagerty from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry be affirmed.
Respectfully submitted,

It is unnecessary to say that if he was suspended he should have
applied for reinstatement to the Lodge which suspended him, in accordance with our law.
It mt1st be admitted that he has failed to furnish proper proof of
having given notice to Abell Lodge of his intention to apply to this .
Grand Lodge for restoration, t1nless his own statement in his petition
can be regarded or accepted as such proof.
Section Six of Article Five of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge
provides that "before such petition shall be considered by the Grand
Lodge, proof of the giving of such notice to said Lodge shall be
furnished."
It might be assumed that had such notice been given, we should
have been furnished under the S'eal of said Lodge, information or proo"f
of some action favorable or unfavorable, taken by said Lodge in this
matter.
We have been informed that such action was taken, but that for
some reason the result of that action has never been communicated to
this Grand Lodge. Had it been, and had Abell Lodge thereby admitted
having received such notice, . it should no doubt be regarded as
sufficient.
In view, therefore, of the want of sufficient proof that such a notice
was ever given, and further in view of the many conflicting statements
that have been made to your Committee, touching this matter, we can
only recommend that the petition be laid over until the next Convocation of this Grand Body, that the record may be made more complete
before final action.

J. D. MURPHY,
H. M. OWENS,

}

Committee.

G:i;:o. E. CHURCH,

All of which were concurred m and the resolutions
adopted.
The W. ·. Henry M. Owens, from the Committee on
Grievances, presented the following reports:
. To the M .'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred the Transcript of the Trial
of Brother Walter Hubbard, a member of "Phoenix Lodge, No. 178,
who was tried by a Commission elected by San Bernardino Lodge, No.
348, and found net guilty, beg leave to report as follows:
We have examined the proceedings very carefully and find that the
record so far as the work of the Secretary of San Bernardino Lodge is
concerned, perfect so far as form is concerned, the evidence is properly
set forth and it would be well for other Lodges to have their Secretaries who have been remiss in getting their trial records up, to look at
this Transcript; the record does .not show that a vote was . had upon
the "Charge" and therefore the Commission erred.
The record discloses that the brother who was being tried had bee,n
the Secretary of his Lodge for many years and had used the funds of
the Lodge for his own purposes, all of which was porved by independent
evidence and by his own admissions; that when tbe Lodge had discov-

690

691

PROCEEOINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF·CALIFORNIA.'

ered that their funds had been misappropriated by him th~t the .Lodge
had passed the following resolution :

Your Committee, to whom was referred the record and transcript
of the trial of Brother Charles McGill Figeley (presumably a member
of Suisun Lodge, No. 55, F. & A. M. of California), tried by a Commission elected by Suisun Lodge on charge of Unmasonic conduct, in
this, "that during the year 1905 he embezzled moneys of his employer,
the Pacific Portland Cement Company," beg 'leave to report as follows :
It does not appear from the record so far as the charge is concerned, whether Charles McGill Figeley was a member of any Lodge.
The evidence produced shows that said Charles McGill Figeley had
confessed that the charges made against him were true, but that he
made such confession on the promise that he would not be prosecuted,
that he should be immune from prosecution by virtue of this alleged
confession.
. The record does not show that the alleged confession was made
free and voluntary on his part and without promise of reward, and
before the confession can be used against him as evidence, this must
affirmatively be shown or independent evidence other than the confession .should be produced; if, however, the accused takes the stand in
his own behalf and testifies under oath that he did take money at
different times, as was done in this case, and there had been no promise
made to him by the Commission or any member thereof or by the
Accuser, that if he confessed he would be immune, his own admissions
would be sufficient evidence to warrant the Commission in finding him
guilty.
The record shows that on May 15th, after several continuances
had been had at the request of the accused, that on motion the Commission adjourned sine die, which action at once dissolved the Commission and rendered any subsequent action of the Commissioners
absolutely void.
Your Committee therefore, in view of the necessity of a re-trial,
deems it advisable to point out as hereinabove set forth, in what .
manner the evidence should be produced on a new trial, in order to
prevent any further mistakes.
We therefore submit the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of Suisun Lodge, in expelling Brother
Charles McGill Figeley be and the same is hereby reversed and that a
new trial be had therein.
Respectfully submitted,

"WHF.IU:AS, It appears from the statement of Brother Hubbard and
the report of Bro. N. A. Bailey, who has examined Bro. Hubbard's
books, that Bro. Hubbard is now indebted to the Lodge in the sum
of $874.57, and
"Wm!RF.AS, On account of Bro. Hubbard's long and. faithful services
in the Lodge, and also because of the belief that said indebtedness is
not the result of any criminal intent on his part, 'it is not the desire of
the Lodge or members thereof to proceed against Bro. Hubbard on
account of such in~ebtedness;
"Tm:R£FoRE DE IT Resolved, That Bro. Hubbard be requested to file
with the Treasurer of this Lodge his written acknowledgment of said
indebtedness ; that it is the sense of this Lodge that Bro. Hubbard repay
said amount, and the whole thereof; that no objection be made to his
installation as Secretary of this Lodge for the ensuing year, but that
he ·be required to pay his salary as Secretary as it accrues towards the
satisfaction of said indebtedness."
This resolution certainly exhibits highly exemplified true Masonic
Charity and follows out our beautiful lessons tqught us in the several
Degrees of Masonry; the evidence, however, shows that Bro. Hubbard
had had sickness in his family, that he had been out of employment and
needed money, but he never asked the Lodge to assist him financially
or otherwise,, hence his talcing of the money was cl~rly unlawful and
could not be j us~ified' under any circumstances ; the Commission found
him not guilty on the first specification, which was the only sp~cification
in the charge.
The evidence is clear and convincing that the accused was guilty of
Unmasonic conduct and should have been found guilty and then the
Commission could have taken into consideration his former good
character in fixing the punishment.
The Lodge could not condone the offense by agreeing to let him
repay the money, the crime had already been committed, a crime which
this Grand Lodge has repeatedly held inexcusable.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption :

Resolved, That the action of San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348, be
and the same is hereby reversed and 'the case remanded for a new trial.

J. D. MURPHY,
H . M. OwENs,
GF.o. E. CHURCH,

}

Committee.

Both which were concurred m and the resolutions
adopted.

692

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The W. ·. Richard C. Rust, Chairm~n of the Committee
on Charters, presented the following report:
·

w:.

To the M:.
Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee beg leave to report as follows : Dispensations have
been granted to the following Lodges :
Highland Park, Orosi, El Centro, Dinuba, Corregidor, Coalingo,
·
·
Parnassus, Palos Verdes.
All of these Lodges have applied for Charters. We have carefully
examined all the records and papers accompanying the· petjtio~s and
find those of Highland Park, El Centro, Dinuba, Coalingo, Parnassus
and Palos Verdes correct, and recommend that Charters be granted
them.
.
Referring to Orosi Lodge, we find that their By-Laws provide for
two Stated Meetings each month. This appears to be in conflict with
the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, as contained in Part III. Article
IL Section 2, which provides that "each Lodge shall h~ve not more
than one Stated Meeting in each lunar month."
.
Your Committee recommend that when Orosi Lodge amends its
By-Laws to conform to the constitutional requirements that a Charter
be granted it.
With reference to Corregidor Lodge we find that this Record Book
does not contain a record of the preliminary meetings of their Lodge
prior to the granting of the Dispensation, nor a copy of its By-Lal\'S.
Your Committee recommend that when Corregidor Lodge has
inserted therein the proceedings of its preliminary meetings and its
By-Laws as adopted, that a Charter be granted it.
Respectfully submitted,

R. C. RusT,
0. D. STONE,
JAMES C. POT'l'I.E,
JOHN FI.AGG,
LUTHER RENNER,

}

.

Committee.

Which was adopted.
On motion, it was ordered that the Grand Oration be
made the special order for two o'clock this aftern~n.
Thew:. Charles Bone, Chairman of the Committee on
By-Laws of Lodges, presented the following report:

w:.

To the M:.
Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was referred the address of Most \~'or­
shipful Grand Master Hart, so far as it relates to the By-Laws of
Lodges, report as follows : . ·

693

CHANGING oF THE Tr:ME.

That the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master approving
the changing of the time of the stated meetings of the following
Lodges:
Santa Cruz .............................. No. 38
Sotoyome ....... .'....... : .. .,. . .. . . .. . . . . " 123
Ferndale ...................•.....•...... " 193
Truckee ...................... " ............ " 200
Bakersfield . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 224 ·
San Mateo .............................. " 226
Olive Branch ................ . ........... " 269
Hanford . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " Zl9
Delano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 309
Sisson .............. . ........ : . . . . . . . . . . . " 310
Tehachapi: ............................... " 313
Redondo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 328 · ·
Berkeley . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 363
Huntington Beach ........................ " 380
be and the same is hereby approved.
INCREASING FEES FOR DEGREES.

That the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master approving
the increasing of fees for degrees by Lodges
San Diego ............................... No. 35
Santa Cruz ................ . .............. " 38
Live Oak . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 61
Eel River . . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . .. .. . . . . .. . " 147
West Gate . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 335
San Francisco ...................... : . . . . " 360
Richmond . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . " 375
be and the same is hereby approved.
INCREASING DUES.

That the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master approving
the increasing of dues by
Calaveras ............................... No. 78
Keystone . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 161
Winnedumah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 287
be and the same is hereby approved.

69-!

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DtCREASING DUES.

That the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master app;oving
the decreasing of dues by
Alturas .. . . . .. . ..... . ... . ...... .. ....... No. 248
be and the same is hereby approved.
CREATING AN AFFILIATION F:u.

That the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master approving
the creation of an affiliation fee by
South Gate ..... .. ... . . .. ............... . No. 320

possible for an applicant to ;i.pply for one degree at a time, instead of
,.il three degrees. We therefore recommend that the above namefj
Lodges be notified to amend. their By-Laws to conform to Section 1, of
Article VIII. of our Uniform Code.
We also report that the .By-Laws of Orosi Lodge, U. D., consists
of a printed copy of the Uniform Code pasted in their book of ByLaws. We recommend that the book be returned to Orosi Lodge to
have the uniform Code properly engrossed therein.
We also suggest that attention of all Masters of Lodges be broaght
to the importance of stamping the seal of the Lodge on all official
documents so that it may be plainly visible.
All which is respectfully submitted.

1

be and the same is hereby approved.

CHARLES BoNE,
]lU!iMIAH J. WILSON,

ADOPTING A LIFE MEMBERSHIP.

That the action of the Most Worshipful Grand Master approving
the adoption of a Life Membership Fund by
California .... . .. .. .... . ............. . .. . No. 1
Golden Gate ........ .. ........ . ........... " 30
San Diego ..... . .. . .. .. . -~ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 35
Mount Moriah .. . ............... 0 • • • • • • • • • "
44
Russian River . ... . ·• ..... . ... • .... . ...... " 181
Alturas . ........... . . . .. . . . ..... .. ... . . · " 248
South Gate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 320
Corona . .. .. . .. . . .. .. .. . . . . .. .. .. .. . . .. . . " 324
Olivet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " 364
be and _the same is hereby approved.
We further report that we have examined the By-Laws adopted by
the following Lodges acting under dispensation :
Coalinga, Dinuba, Corregidor, Palos Verdes, Parnassus, El Centro,
Highland Park,
and find them in conformity to the uniform code of the Grand Lodge.
We therefore recommend their approval.
We also report that the efforts of
Ferndale . . .. . ........ . .... ..... . . .. .. . ... No. 193
Oak Grove . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " ZlS
.. 268
Durant
to increase the fee for Degrees, and
King David, No. 209, to decrease the fees for Degrees are not in
conformity with Section 1, Article VIII., of the Uniform Code of this
Grand Lodge-the By-Laws so amended by these Lodgrs makes it

··· ········ ········· ······ ···· ····

695

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Committee.

E. E. SttPH,
Which was adopted.
The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report to
the Grand Lodge as follows :
To . the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
I beg to submit this, my annual report for the Masonic year now
closing:
Another year has sped its course into the forever past. It has been
for Masonry in this Grand Jurisdiction one that will live in happy
memory through all the years that are yet to conie.
Great progress has been made. Increase . in membership has been
unprecedented, and the earnestness and enthusiasm manifested everywhere speaks eloquently for the future of our great fraternity.
Our lodge work throughout the Jurisdiction is done in a most
creditable manner, and though it be true that in remote places where
the membership of Lodges is widely scattered and where it is almost
impossible for Masters to have full and proper assistance, yet in these
places we find that effort to emulate the more fortunate Lodges and
to do the full and perfect work. There is a pleasing exactness and
uniformity in the rendition of . the work that is truly as wonderful as
it is delightful. Go "!W'here we may, whether to the snowy crests of
our great Sierras, or to the fragrance-spreading groves of our orange
section ; whether to the mines or to the vineyards, everywhere we will
witness the same correctness, of execution, the same rendition of the'°
ritual. and the same spirit of devotion to the great truths which
underlie and form the foundation of our beloved Fraternity.

696

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I have visited nearly every Masonic ·district in California since the
last communication of the Grand 'Lodge, and have conducted Lodges
of Instruction in many of the Lodges, and have given individual instruction to many brethren. It has been a great pleasure to feel that
my visits and work have done some good-that I have contribute<j. my
mite.
The office with which the Grand Lodge in its kindness has honored
me for the past ten years is in most respects a very delightful one. It
gives the opportunity for acquaintance and fellowship with the truest
and best men of every section of our great commonwealth. It enhances our appreciation of those Masonic words: "Brotherly Love,
Relief, and Truth."
·
This office also has its worries, its labors, and its trials. No
occupation requires more patience, more care, more concentration. ' To
suffer one's self to cease vigilance for one moment is perhaps · to leave
an error in the mind of him one teaches that will be hard to eradicate.
It is the experience of all, that it is harder t~ unlearn what js wrong
than to learn it right in the first instance.
Of the Inspectors of the several Masonic districts of this· Jurisdiction I beg to repeat what I have said in the reports of last and
other years, that in the discharge of their official duties they have
proven their sterling worth and competency. They have been faithful
to the trust committed to their care and have by their works endeared
themselves to the Lodges of their districts and to the Fraternity at
large.
It has been my very great privilege and pleasure to have traveled
almost throughout the entire. State in company with our Most Worshipful Grand Master. I have sat spellbound in crowded halls and listened
to his matchless oratory. I have sat beside him in the silent watches
of the night and drun.k the gentle influence of his sympathetic nature.
I have watched the trend of his daily thought and act, and I pay to
him the homage that every Mason owes to one whose life is pure,
whose thoughts and deeds and words, warmed by the sunshine of his
genial soul, bring delight to all who meet him.
·
I regret that I may never more be so close in my daily life to .that
distinguished man and Mason, our beloved Most Worshipful Edward
Henry Hart. Long may he live to honor himself, his family and the
great Fraternity over which he has so ably presided.
And now, my brethren of the Grand Lodge, it is with feelings
akin to grief that I bid you farewell as Grand Lecturer. Nevermore
can I expect to travel from Lodge to Lodge and meet you in your
homes as I have done in the years that have now gone forever.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

697

From the deep recesses of my heart, I thank you one and all for
the many courtesies and honors I have received at your hands, and I
thank the Most Worshipful Grand Master and the Directors of the
Masonic Home for the confidence they have manifested by placing me
and mine in charge of the Masonic Home at Decoto. We shall do the
best that in us lies to make the aged brethren, the widows and the
orphans who are placed in our care feel and know that Masonry is indeed the greatest and best Fraternity on the face of the earth.
WILLIAM HARVEY EnwA&ns, Grand Lecturer.

Which report was ordered to be referred to a Special
Committee of three and the Grand Master named the following brethren to constitute such committeeTHOMAS

.

.

{

·

J. BAKtR

]A:Mts E. Dn,

On Grand Lecturer's Report .•••• ·••••••••

BYRON BALL.

'

The Grand Lodge was then called. off until two o'clock
this afternoon.

Jn "rnnh iljnhgr.
Afternoon Session,
Thursday, October rnth, A. L. 5907.

,

l

J

The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock the
Grand Master presiding.
·
'
· · This being the hour for the special order, as ordered by
the Grand L<;>dge ye~terday, the Grand Orator, the W. · .,
Bro. Jacob Nieto, delivered the Annual Oration before the
Grand Lodge, as follows :
. All beginnings are difficult, but I can imagine few beginnings more
difficult than formulating the introduction to an address designed for
this Grand Body.
.
When one. remembers that seated as his audience are not only
men of educat10n, culture and refinement; men of discernment and
discretion, skilled in worldly matters, able to sit in judgment and to i'
dete~i~e upon the exact value of each word, phrase and sentence, and
to crittc1se every thought and sentiment; but men who know the ritual
and with whom its language is so fluent that they find it impossible to
11

698

699

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

keep it out of their ordinary conversation, he becomes convinced that
mere perfervid oratory, a flight of winged words will never do. Here
are men of thought-and that which is offered them must not only be
the result of mature thought, but must possess the additional quality
of being able to engage their most serious attention and lead them by
logical paths to a logical conclusion. I might enunciate a problem or
suggest hypothetical questions and reasoning upon them, endeavor to
educe some thought that might commend itself to the imagination, or
I might proceed to discuss definitions and by thus limiting the breadth
of discussion narrow down my argument to a few generalities. ·

utterly fall to comprehend that they were deprived of their liberty, a
few stout hearts that, with fearless minds, were willing to undergo
martyrdom stood forth to champion the cause of liberty.

But in the stead of all these expedients it is my purpose to pro- ·
pound a question and in the course of my attempt to solve that question or answer it, to engage your thoughts and your most serious attention, to. enliven your sympathies and sentiments and . to lend wing
to your imagination .. The question I am about · to discuss is, "What
makes a man a Mason." I k~~~ th~t · ~ost of my friends here assembled would solve the question immediately by responding, his obligation makes a man a Mason, and that position I am about to contest.

An

obligation no more makes a man a Mason than does subscribing to the creed of a particular church make one a true follower of .
the doctrines inculcated by that church. One may attend church every
day and be conversant with every ceremony and be no Christian, or
attend the Temple and repeat every prayer and be no Jew. Similarly
a man may be present, whenever his Lodge convenes, know the work
perfectly and be only a lodge Mason. Like some frequenters of
churches and temples, ~hose religion never strays beyond the confines
of the religious edifice, his Masonry may be and is confined to lip service and ritual work. Such men are never Masons and no amount of
obligations can make them Mason~. Men whose hearts do not realize,
and whose minds cannot comprehend the real usefulness of Masonry;
men who cannot apply the teachings of the Craft to their lives and to
the practice of their daily existence, and feel their Masonry only within
the precincts of the lodge roo'm ; such men are a detriment and a
hindrance to the cause that Masonry represents.
·
When men originally banded themselves together under the name
of Masons, it was the espousal of a sacred cause and a desire to
promulgate the doctrines of that cause that impelled them to combine.
Jn. an age when ignorance among the masses was promoted and encouraged for fear that men might realize that freedom, their inalienable right was denied them~ when factional feud and sectarian strife
was fostered and stimulated by designing rulers that men's minds,
divert~d by the non-essentials represented by dogma and f?rmula, should

Collecting about them men of like calibre selected from all sorts
and conditions of men they constructed a society that would, by destroying the stumbling blocks so adroitly placed in the path of human
progress, render it impossible for men, through ignorance of one another, or bigotry, to retard the growth of that spirit of brotherly·
love that alone could cement the men who desired to serve the Grand
Master of the Universe mto one common band. Hence no restriction
as to calling or creed was imposed upon those who, seeing thfl light
and desiring to aid in spreading i~ volunteered their services to the
holy cause.
Each one thereafter undertook to individually manifest in the pursuit of his own existence, and to demonstrate in ·his personal life, the
great beauties conceived and promulgated by the Fraternity.
The Holy Bible, the rule and guide of his faith, was the source
from which shone the light which was thenceforward to be reflected .in
his own actions and words, in his demonstrations to his fellow men,
in his companionship with his family and his comradeship with his
friends. It is to the Bible then that we must look for the light that
we are to absorb and then to disseminate that we banded together for
the promotion of all that is best and noblest, may fit ourselves as mas- •
ter workmen proficient in the knowledge of our Craft and competent
for the performance of our work.
The fifteenth Psalm gives us . the picture of an honest man, the
man whose soul is above untruth, and who finds no joy in gaining
wealth through the misfortunes of others. He never forgets nor does
the true Mason that the mistakes of others are contributary to his own
good, and often their failure means his success. He therefore deems
it his duty to attempt equalization by proffering the unsuccessful aid
and encouragement to prosecute his vocation. . The psalmist speaks of
God as mighty, just, powerful; but he is full of goodness; he is merciful, long-suffering and slow to anger too, and in the highest concept
of the psalmist, God's most exalted function is described in the words,
"Father of the Fatherless and Vindicator of the Widow." Brethren,
do you realize what this meant, pronounced as were these words at a
time when money had corrupted men's minds and the weakest and most
helpless were prey to the strong and the rich ? Or can you conceive
the conditions that prevailed when that grand orator-poet Isaiah denounced his generation, berated them for the uselessness of their assemblies convened or convoked for personal gain or aggrandizement?

700

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

When he characterized their holy convocations and fasts as · farces and
their unmeant devotions and supplications as blasphemies, and when
he declared the acceptable day of God as one in which you break the
yoke of servitude, free the enslaved, feed the hungry, clothe the naked,
shelter the homeless and cease pointing the finger of scorn. Do you
understand what pointing the finger of scorn means? . You know the
difference between insinuated insult and the affront conveyed in definite
terms. The one is deadly because indefinite, and cowardly because undeterminable. The insinuated insult leaves a man helpless and denies
him the human and natural desire to be avenged because it is not
stated; it leaves him defenseless. So it is with pointing the finger of
scorn. There is a pointing of the finger which is only mental, and
.men have been thus only mentally exposed to scorn because of their
religious beliefs. But this is wrong in a society where men _o f all
faiths are banded together for the prosecution of a common cause.
To obviate all this when man's freedom was assailed on all sides,
our Fraternity strove to disseminate the light which is of the eternal coeternal and like a glory ·did invest the rising world of waters dark and
deep. We are still banded together for the enlightenment of mankind
and any danger that menaces humanity must engage our most serious
attention. Individually each of us is under obligation to eradicate tg
the best of his ability any disease or distemper that threatens to infect
men's minds, and destroying their reverence for God and righteous• ness cause crude forms of thought to hold sway.
Today there is a disorder which is not local, a malady which is
not national, but epidemic the world over. Money fever, the greed for
gold is a disease that has infected mankind, not only here but everywhere and nothing seems to have any value except it has a price in
mone;. Today, when men of high repute and standing have their
price in gold, and high officials become traitors to their trust for so
much money, it becomes the duty of every Mason to lend his aid to"
battling against Mammon. In his service neither mercy or kindness,
love nor sympathy finds a place; all things must subserve him. But we
who serve God as our master must be up and doing. Gold will not
unbolt the portals of heaven; money will not unbar the gates of Paradise. Money is not the standard by which we measure men; we judge
by character only. Who is the most honored of our three first most
excellent grand masters? Solomon, king of Israel, with gorgeous
panoply of kingly raiment, or Hiram of Tyre with his wealth of stone
and timber? Neither ! but the humblest architect of the work who forfeited his life rather than his integrity, and whom neither persuasion
nor force could induce to prove traitor to his trust. The simple, honest
mind, great in its simplicity, drinking into his soul the lessons symbol-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

701

ized in the tools of his trade is the greatest exemplar of Freemasonry
known to man. Neither his obligation nor a knowledge of the work
made him a Mason; but his unswervable honesty, his piety, his fidelity,
his putting into practice the principles of his art, made him the noblest
of all Masons. Our most ancient teachers inculcated morals by means
of parable and allegory a:nd, following their noble example, I will with
your forbearance granted, attempt to compose one for you.
My soul was once granted leave to stray away from my body, that
unobserved I might note the ways of . men, entering into their secret
thoughts without fear of detection. Accordingly my soul did stray
away one night to a large and thriving mining camp, where the moral
law is put aside and men carry legal decisions in their hip pockets.
Among those most unfortunate there was a sturdy and strong young
man who, to quote him, had been "lucky-fortune had smiled upon
him," he said. He had dug in many a claim and found many a pocket
which he had transferred to his bank account. Amongst those who
had dug down into the earth, he had been most successful, and now
grown rich he hungered to go home, not to do good 'tis true, but to
show the villagers, his early companions, what he had done and how
rich he had grown. He boarded the train, and in a short while fell
asleep and dreamed. My soul kept company with his thoughts and
dreamed his dream with him. He dreamed that he had died and the
funeral o'er, his soul began its journey heavenward. On a rough and
rugged road he found himself, trudging and laboring onward, his feet
all cut by the projecting rocks and his frame borne down by the weight
of gold. But as he labored painfully along other spirits passed him by
whose feet seemed scarce to touch the ground, much less to suffer by
the contact. And he looked and wondered and anon, as his strength
waxed weak, he queried of a passing spirit the cause .why he so painfully trudged along and they passed, experiencing no pain at all. "My
good deeds have lightened the burden of my sins and I feel their weight
no more," was the response, but still he labored on. Soon he came to
an iron gate against which he pressed with might, but no strength of
· his could move those gates, so he stood aside to observe. Anon there
came several souls that knelt them down and prayed and arising did
pass through as though no gate were there. And there came a voice
from out the heights that uttered the mandate, "Pray." Pray? Why,
he had not prayed for years. In the busy life he lead he had no
time for such a thing. Even the prayer he lisped at night a,t his
mother's knee had from his memory passed clean away, and neither
the memories of his childhood, nor the soft and refining influences
that home recalls had entered into his life for many a year. Pray?
Who prayed out there where he lived? But anon, like the cool breath
of a heavenly wind, it came back to him again, and kneeling there at the

702

703

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

iron gate he prayed a childlike prayer "that God would let him grow up
to be a good man and true," and lo, the gates were there no more and he
passed the portals through.

forward by a sound of music not of earth; he hastened his steps, now
made more free, · his burdens having been removed, and at length arrived in a chamber where it seemed to him the hosts of heaven were
assembled. An awful silence held all there enthralled and troubled
were the brows of all ministering angels. Suddenly there was a blast
of trumpets, long and loud, and every soul trembled. It was the day
of judgment, awful ai:id sublime, and the courts of heaven were about
to convene; men and angels were to appear before the throne of
grace and reward or punishment was to be meted out. Again the trumpet blasts were sounded and Justice looked askance at Love and Truth,
looked shamefacedly at outraged Virtue. Justice remembered growing
blinder at the request of Love and Truth recalled concealing facts to
protect outraged Virtue. From above the throne of grace "the Voice"
proclaimed, "If in the sight of heaven angels are not withou.t fault, how
can mortal man be stainless?" A third time the trumpets sounded and
heavenly heralds proclaimed the opening of the divine courts. It
seemed as though all earth was present and in the midst a glorious
throne, above which shone a light bright and luminous. In front of
the throne was exposed a ponderous tome, in which was inscribed the
·record of man's misdeeds and from which the accuser read the charges
.from time to time, staying to demand judgment: And Justice would
assent as Truth confirmed the charges that were read. At length the
reading was ended and again the accuser rose to demand sentence upon
mankind. The advocates on the defense had been heard, the angels
of Gface had interposed, and soul sent sympathy to soul as they waited
the awful moment when their doom would be pronounced. But such
is the cµstom in the courts of heaven, that sentence cannot be passed,
till all the angels have been heard, nor is that tribunal ever closed to
appeals for pardon. One place in that heavenly host was vacant, one
mfistering angel had strayed away. Mercy was missing, and s~ the •
court delayed remaining yet in session. Down .o n earth, where misery
holds companionship with want and hearts are crushed beneath a multitude of woes, , there was Mercy busily engaged bringing sunshine
where nothing but darkness was before. Here she soothed a stricken
one there carried cooling water to parched throats. Now joining together in loving fellowship those who had been separated for years,
helping the weary, comforting the sorrowing, feeding the hungry; aye,
even in dens whence Virtue had long been banished, Mercy entered to
bring the Grace of God to those who had turned away from it. No
place was too mean, no being so base, but that Mercy would minister to
aching hearts. On a sudden in the extreme circle of the assemblage oo
sorrow a sound of unrestrainable joy was heard, and a tumult of gladness not to be silenced. Some one was approaching and all there felt
that in the person of the one entering was great good for all. Not that

On a different road he no.; stood. Rocks no more bothered his ·
feet, but grassy turf unevenly laid; and, borne down by _his wealth, he
labored along till he came to a silvern gate. Here again his strength
was of no avail to force an entrance and he waited to watch and saw
numbers approach the gate and reveretnly kneeling. proclaim, "Oh,
God, I have sinned," and instantly the gates did part and they entered
in. He too would have entered but found his progress hindered, the
gates were closed to him. Repent? Why should he repent? What
had he done to repent? He had only done what all the others had
done; it was usual and customary amongst them. He had only done
as the others had done, and followed the usual business methods.
Everybody had taken advantage of others, and no one had been considerate· their faults had been their misfortunes, but he could not help
that. Thus reasoning, he sought to force his way through, but the
gates resisted him. In the sight of heaven wrong is wrong, and nothing justifies crime. Strong with a new emotion, his disappointment
had taught him, he toQ knelt at the gate and as from the depths of
sincerity rang out the words, "Oh, God, I have sinned; forgive me."
The gates flew wide open and he, like the others, passed through. And
now he stepped upon mossy grovnd with paths moist with heaven's dew
and toiled along till he came to a golden gate as slight as a spider's
web. But it was strange indeed that strength could not move that
gate. So again he waited in order to observe how admission could
be here gained. And as he waited there passed him by an aged and
back-bent sage that with humble mien came and stood by the gate.
From out the heights a voice was heard speaking in tones sublime:
"Oh, thou faithful servant, most welcome to the realms · of bliss; you
have spent your life in charity the greatest and most kind. To those
who did not know you have imparted knowledge, and men have learned
through you of God and human love, enter thou most deserving one."
And while he gazed bewildered there also passed him by a woman
bent with years and marred with toil. From out the height a voice was
heard in accents full of love: "Oh, thou blessed one, long has thy love
been known; thou hast earned heaven's most cordial welcome. Hungry
yourself, you shared the little you had with those who had nought."
And the golden gates parted for her.
Moved by a sentiment he had not known before, the man flung from his back his treasure of gold and said, "Oh, God, send this back
to earth and give it to those who will protect the orphan and dry the
widow's tears." He looked up and the gates were not there. Lured

702

703

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

iron gate he prayed a childlike prayer "that God would let him grow up
to be a good man and true," and lo, the gates were there no m,ore and he
passed the portals through.

forward by a sound of music not of earth, he hastened his steps, now
made more free, · his burdens having been removed, and at length arrived in a chamber where it seemed to him the hosts of heaven were
assembled. An awful silence held all there enthralled and troubled
were the brows of all ministering angels. Suddenly there was a blast
of trumpets, long and loud, and every soul trembled. It was the day
of judgment, awful a1:1d sublime, and the courts of heaven were about
to convene; men and angels were to appear before the throne of
grace and reward or punishment was to be meted out. Again the trumpet blasts were sounded and Justice looked askance at Love and. Truth,
looked shamefacedly at outraged Virtue. Justice remembered growing
blinder at the request of Love and Truth recalled concealing facts to
protect outrag~d Virtue. From above the throne of grace "the Voice"
proclaimed, "If in the sight of heaven angels are not without fault, how
can mortal man be stainless?" .A third time the trumpets sounded and
heavenly heralds proclaimed the opening of the divine courts. It
seemed as though all earth was present and in the midst a glorious
throne, above which . shone a light bright and luminous. In front of
the throne was exposed a ponderous tome, in which was inscribed the
·record of man's misdeeds and from which the accuser read the charges
-from time to time, staying to demand judgment: And Justice would
assent as Tr-uth confirmed the charges that were read. At length the
reading was ended and again the accuser rose to demand sentence upon
mankind. The advocates on the defense had been heard, the angels
of Gi::ace had interposed, and soul sent sympathy to soul as they waited
the awful moment when -their doom would be pronounced. But such
is the custom in the courts of heaven, that sentence cannot be passed,
till all the angels have been heard, nor is that tribunal ever closed to
appeals for pardon. One place in that heavenly host was yacant, one
mfistering angel had strayed away. Mercy was missing, and so the •
court delayed remaining yet in session. Down on earth, where misery
holds companionship with want and hearts are crushed beneath a multitude of woes, there was Mercy busily engaged bringing sunshine
where nothing but darkness was before. Here she soothed a stricken
one there carried cooling water to parched throats. Now joining together in loving fellowship those who had been separated for years,
helping the weary, comforting the sorrowing, feeding the hungry; aye,
even in dens whence Virtue had long been banished, Mercy entered to
bring the Grace of God to those who had turried away from it. No
place was too mean, n·o being so base, but that Mercy would minister to
aching hearts. On a sudden in the extreme circle of the assemblage •of
sorrow a sound of unrestrainable joy was heard, and a tumult of gladness not to be silenced. Some one was approaching and all there felt
that in the person of the one entering was great good for all. Not that

On a different road he no.; stood. Rocks no more bothered his
feet, but grassy turf unevenly laid; and, borne down by his wealth; he
labored along till he came to a silvern gate. Here again his strength
was of no avail to force an entrance and he waited to watch and saw
numbers approach the gate and reveretnly kneeling. proclaim, "Oh,
God, I have sinned," and instantly the gates did part and they entered
in. He too would have entered but found his progress hindered, the
gates were closed to him. Repent? Why should he repent? What
had he done to repent? He had only done what aJl the others had
done; it was usual and customary amongst them. He had only done
as the others had done, and followed the usual business methods.
Everybody had taken advantage of others, and no one had been considerate; their faults had been their misfortunes, but he could not help
that. Thus reasoning, he sought to force his way through, but the
gates resisted him. In the sight of heaven wrong is wrong, and nothing justifies crime. Strong with a new emotion, his disappointment
had taught him, he toQ knelt at the gate and as from the depths of
sincerity rang out the words, "Oh, God, I have sinned; forgive me."
The gates flew wide open and he, like the others, passed through. And
now he stepped upon mossy gro\lnd with paths moist with heaven's dew
and toiled along till he came to a golden gate as slight as a spider's
web. But it was strange indeed that strength could not move that
gate. So again he waited in order to observe how admission could
be here gained. And as he waited there passed him by an aged and
back-bent sage that with humble mien came and stood by the gate.
From out the heights a voice was heard speaking in tones sublime:
"Oh, thou faithful servant, most welcome to the realms · of bliss ; you
have spent your life in charity the greatest and most kind. To those
who did not know you have imparted knowledge, and men have learned
through you of God and human love, enter thou most deserving one."
And while he gazed bewildered there also passed him by a woman
bent with years and marred with toil. From out the height a voice was
heard in accents full of love: "Oh, thou blessed one, long has thy love
been known; thou hast earned heaven's most cordial welcome. Hungry
yourself, you shared the little you had with those who had nought."
And the golden gates parted for her.
Moved by a sentiment he had not known before, the man flung
from his back his treasure of gold and said, "Oh, God, send this back
to earth and give it to those who will protect the orphan and dry the
widow's tears." He looked up and the gates were not there. Lured

704

705

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the sight presented would have suggested great things, for the figure
approaching was tattered and worn, with hair dishevelled and garments
wet with tears of men's greatest sorrows. · So it is that mercy sometimes despises wealth to lurk beneath the beggar's tattered robe. On,
on, came the figure until it reached the foot of the throne of glory, and
throwing herself athwart the great book Mercy wept most convulsively.
Even in heaven they respect sincere grief, so no one for a-while interfered till· at last Faith and Hope, tenderly drawing nigh, raised Mercy
from across the throne and lo, the page was blank, for Mercy's tears
had washed the record clean.

The history of Masonry in Spain and the Philippine is not complete
in any of the works that have been published. Gould's History of
Masonry does not attempt to report authenticated information on this
matter; it is mostly rumors and hearsay evidence.
This Grand Lodge should not use any but the most positive information as to the regularity of Masonry in the Philippines. The best
information that we have is that the' records of the so-called Grand
Bodies in Spain are very incomplete as to their Lodges, if any they
have in the Philippine Islands.
As this Committee has been unable to get full information on the
matter, we deem it advisable and recommend that it be continued,
with power to add to its number in order that they might obtain
the fullest information possible and that this matter be continued
until the next Communication of the Grand Lodge; that in the meanwhile we recommend that no Masonic communication be held with said
Masonic bodies or their subordinate Lodges.
Respectfully submitted,

On motion of M:. w:. Bro. Edmund C. Atkinson it
was ordered that the thanks of the Grand Lodge be tendered
to the Grand Orator for his interesting and eloquent address, and that he be requested to furnish a copy thereof
for publication with its proceedings.
Bro. Henry M. Owens presented the following:
To the M:. W.~. Grand Lodge of California:
Brethren :-Your Committee, to whom was referred that part of
Grand Master Motley H . Flint's address at the Annual Communication
of this Grand Lodge in October, 1906, which contained the communication from the Special Representative of Manila Lodge, No. 342, requesting this Grand Lodge to define our Masonic relations towards
other Masonic bodies in the Philippine Islands, to-wit: The Gra.nd
Orients of Spain and France, beg leave to report:
That at the meeting of this Grand Lodge, one year ago, we reported that from a lack of information and the limited time at the
command of this Committee, it recommended that the final disposition
of this question be referred to the next Communication of this Grind
Lodge, and in the meantime (the regularity of the aforesaid Masonic
bodies being discussed by other Masonic powers) that no Masonic communication be held with said Masonic bodies or their subordinate
bodies.
Since making the above report, your Committee has personally
interviewed representative from the Philippine Islands, have had correspondence with others, and one member of this Committee has attended the Masonic Conference held at Brussels, Belgium, at which
conference twenty-one Masonic Powers were represented; this matter
was discussed at that conference and a final determination of the standing of the Grand· Orients of Spain and France was not determined.
The matter was at that conference continued in order that further
information might be obtained.

w. FRANK PrtRCI!,
H. M. Owl!Ns,

}

Committee.

Which was concurred in.
The M:. w:. Edmund C. Atkinson, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following:
Your Committee to whom was referred the resolution amending
Section 11 of Article III, Part III, of the Constitution, have had the
same under consideration and respectfully approve· the same.
Respectfully submitted,

c;.

EDMUND
ATKINSON, }
]AMI!S w. ANDl!RSON,
SAMUl!L C. Dl!NSON,
Committee.
Gl!ORGI!
HUNTl!R,
MOTLl!Y H. FLINT,

w.

Which was ,unanimously adopted.
The M:. w:. Motley H. Flint presented the following:
Resolved, That General Regulation No. 21 is hereby repealed, and
that the following be and is hereby adopted in place of it:
Regulation 21. All Lodges in this Jurisdiction are authorized to
employ, in the conduct of Masonic trials, a duly accredited stenographic
reporter; Provided, That said stenographic reporter is a Master Mason

706

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and that, before entering upon his duty he shall be qualified in the manner provided for the qualification of Masonic witnesses; and provided
further, that said stenographic reporter shall attest the transcript of the
evidence of the respective witnesses examined in the course of the trial
prior to signature by the said witnesses; and, provided further)'-..that the
employment of a stenographic reporter in any such trials shall be ·
optional with the Master presiding at said trial.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The M:.

w:. Henry S. Orme presented the following:

Resolved, '!'hat the definition of Past Master in Article II., Part
VII., of the Constitution be and the same is hereby amended to read
as follows :
·
Past Master.-This title applies only to . one who has been regularly
elected or named in a charter and installed, and has served a term as
Master of a chartered Lodge within the jurisdiction of this Grand
Lodge, or any other Lodge recognized by this, and who is a member
in good standin,g of one of the subordinate Lodges of this Jurisdiction.

Which was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The M:. W:. Edmund C. Atkinson, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the M:. w:. Grand J..odge of California:
Your Committee have had under consideration the resolution referred to them as substitute for General Regulation No. 21 and unanimously recommend its adoption.
Respectfully submitted,

c.

EDMUND
ATKINSON, }
}AMES W. ANDERSON,
SAMUEL C. DI!NSON,
GEORGI!

w. HUNTER,

Committee.

MoTLl!Y H. FLINT,

Which was adopted.
Bro. Jam es C. Cole presented the following:
It having been brought to the attention of members of the Grand
Lodge that certain inmates of the Masonic Home at Deeoto have not ·
seen ~ member of their own Lodge for seven years, although representatives of such Lodges have been in attendance at the Grand Lodge

707

yearly, and beli~ving that it is for the best interests of the Home that
the Lodi"eS who have members in the Home shall keep in close touch
with the institution the following resolution is introduced.
Resolved, That mileage shall not be allowed the represen?tive of
any Lodge in attendance at the Grand Lodge, if such Lodge has a
member who is an inmate of the Masonic Home at Decoto, unless such
representative shall have visited the institution at some time within the
twelve months next preceding his application for mileage.

Which was refe'rred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until nine thirty
o'clock tomorrow morning. .

lln °'rauh 14nhgt.
Morning Session,
.
· Friday, October I rth, A. L. 5907·

l

S

The Grand Lodge was called on at nine thirty o'clock,
the Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of the sessions of yesterday were read and
approved.
On motion, General Regulation No. 20 was suspend~d,
and the election of Grand Officers was made the special
order for one thirty o'clock this afternoon. •
Bro. Geo. E. Church, from· the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:
To the M. ·. w. ·. Grand Lodge of Califoniia:
Your Committee to whom is referred the Trial Record in the case
of Walter W. Bradford, expelled by King David's Lodge, No. 209, and
from which .judgment the accused has appealed, have had · the same
under consideration, and report as follows :
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct under six specifications prefe_rred by the Ju~ior Warden of the Lodge, a~d t~e Trial
Commissioners returned a finding of guilty on each specification. In
brief it is alleged that the ace.used charged certain Brothers with having ~ast black balls; that he objected ~o the reception of a pe?ti~n for
degrees, notwithstanding that he admitted that he had no ob3ect1on to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

708

709

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
.
· d Th Master then adjourned the Commission indefinitely.
his stea ·
e
·
d
This was error; the adjournment should be _made to some certam an
definite time. Subsequently the Master appomted by the Grand Master
directed the Commission to meet on the 17th _day of O~tober, 19?6, at
P. M., but prior to the date set for the meetm;'!' and without notice t<;>
8
the accused or his attorney, the time of the ~~etmg was extended to the
Jlst of October, at which time the Comm1ss10ners met. The accused
th n objected to any further proceedings upon the grou~d that ~he
C~mmission had become functus officio ; this objection was, m our opm.
good "having failed to meet on the day designated by the Master
ion,
•
C
· ·
f ·1
't
•pso facto dissolved. This is the rule when a omm1ss1on a1 s
1 was•
•
,
·
·
ted b
t meet pursuant to adjournment and no further time 1s gran
Y
t~e Master. For a more cogent reason would it be the rule whe_n ~he
· ·on did not meet at all. Under this rule the Comm1ss10n
Comm1ss1
.
.
· d' d k
·
lapsed, became functus offici o, and any action ~h1ch it ~ .~ e wa~
extra-judicial, a usurpation of power and authority, and v01d., A. M.,

the particular candidate; that he used the black ball to gratify personal
malice and prejudice; th~t he urged Brothers to cast their votes against
a certain candidate for Master upon the alleged ground that he was a
Catholic and threatened to -"seal" the Lodge in the event that such
Brother was elected Master; that in furtherance of this threat, since
the election of said Brother, he · has habitually rejected all applicants
through malice and prejudice and without regard to character or qualifications and finally that he falsely asserted that his use of the black ball
was upon the advice of the Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter
of California.
These are serious accusations and when established to ·the. satisfaction of a Trial Commission after a fair trial in conformity with our
laws and usages merit the severest penalties imposed by our laws upon
its offenders. The man who is permitted to participate in the privileges of Masonry and so far forgets his solemn engagements as to attempt to disrupt his Lodge through malice and bigotry was never 1l
Mason in spirit or in fact, was never worthy and well qualified, but was
an imposition upon the Fraternity when he crossed our threshold.
This case appeals to us as one in which there was a strong feeling
in the Lodge that,. the accused, in violation of his obligations, was disposed to arbitrarily override the will of the majority whenever that
expressed will ran contrary to his opinions and convictions. The evidence, however, presented to the Commission is not convincing as to
any of the specifications and totally wanting as to some of them. Generally speaking, each specification is supported by the testimony of one
witness, and the statements of each are specifically denied by the accused and his denial is supported by the fact that a large number of the
most prominent and respected members of King David's Lodge testified
to the excellent reputation of the accused for honesty and integrity.
The accused was found guilty upon all of the specifications, notwithstanding that as to one, at least, there is not a suggestion of evidence to support the finding. However, if the record did not show
fatally defective errors in the proceedings, your Committee would
not be disposed to interfere with the conclusions of the Trial Commission on questions of fact alone.
In this case the special meeting of the Lodge for the election of
Commissioners· was held on the 15th day of August, 1906. The Master
then appointed the 19th day of September, 1906, as the time for the
first meeting of the Commissioners and gave proper direction for procuring the attendance of the necessary parties at that time. Upon convening for the trial the Master announced his disqualification to preside
at the trial and stated that he had requested the Most Worshipful
Grand Master to designate the Master of some other Lodge to act in

Sec. 585.
We might pr<;>pertly leave the matter here, but as the case may b~
again tried we will notice other errors on the face of the. r~co~d. Th • .
Commission was continually adjourned by the Master; t~1s 1s irre!'111ar
and improper. The Commissioners are the proper parties to a:l1ourn
the Commission, and not the Master.
The Commission found upon all the specifications named in the
charge, but failed to find upon the charge ; this is ~atal error. Unless
the records' of the Commission show that the findmgs are upon b?th
the specifications and the charge they failed to find the accused gmlty
of any offense to which a penalty can be attached.
A finding upon the charge separate an~ dis~inct from the specifications is as necessary as a finding upon specifications.
The record clearly discloses one other serious and fata_l error. The
accused objected to all of the Commissioners upon sufficient grounds.
The examination of two of the Commissioners showed. them to have
been unquestionably disqualified and they should not have b~e~ permitted to participate in the proceedings. One of: the Comm1ss1oners
stated that he had conversed with many of the witnesses, had so~ght
to discover evidence against the accused, and had formed an unq~ahfied
opinion as to his guilt. He then said that he could and would give the
accused a fair and impartial trial. Notwithstanding this statement, upon ·
the showing made, he was disqualified.
The Commission should be so constituted as to be reasonably free
from any suspicion of unfairness, bias, prejudice or. partiality. A Commissioner who has conversed with nearly all the witnesses and formed

•
'

710

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

an unqualified opinion is not in such a condition of mifld and should not
sit in judgment on !tis fellow man in any trial, Masonic or governmental.

Lodge, No. 342, and of Brother Charles Watson Coggins, of Sisson
Lodge, No. 310, beg leave to report as follows :

The examination of one of the other Commissioners and evidence
.subsequently adduced at the trial, clearly demonstrated the impropriety
of his sitting as a Commissioner.
These two Brothers participated in the trial up to the· time of balloting on the specifications, and the record shows that they withdrew
and did not participate in the final deliberations. It is contended that
after their withdrawal a majority of the Commissioners still remained
and as such would proceed to dispose of the case. We cannot sanction
this view.
All the Commissioners who participated in the trial should be
qualified, and the withdrawal of a disqualified Commissioner at the
close of a trial and after participating in all the proceedings, comes too
late to cure the error of his retention.
·
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
·

Resolved, That the action of King David's Lodge, No. 209, in expelling Walter W. Bradford be and the same is hereby reversed.
Respectfully submitted,

J. D. MURPHY,
}
G&>RGI! E. CHURCH,
Committee.
W. H. WAsn:,

\Vhich was concurred in and the resolution adopted.
Bro. William H. Edwards presented the following:
I move that the sum of $400 from the funds of the Grand Lodge

w:.

be and is hereby appropriated to the M.".
Edward Henry Hart, to
reimburse him ~or expenses for travel during the past year in excess of
the appropriation allowed by the Finance Committee at the last annual
communication of this Grand 'Lodge.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
Bro. Henry M. Owens, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:
To t,he M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Brethren :-Your Committee having considered the report on the
transcript of the trial of Brother Hugh Spencer Breszee, of Manila

711

We have carefully examined the records of both of these cases
and find that all of the purported evidence which was used at each of
the trials was that of affidavits, which this Grand Lodge has repeatedly
held is not evidence upon which a Mason can be convicted of any
offense.
The reason why affidavits can not be used as evidence:
"Affidavits is a statement or declaration reduced to writing, and
sworn to before some officer who has authority to administer an oath
or affirmation; it differs ·from a deposition in this, that in the deposition
the opposite party . has an opportunity to cross-examine the witness,
whereas an affidavit is always taken exparte."
By general practice affidavits are allowable to present evidence
upon the hearing of a motion, but they are not allowable to present
evidence on the trial of an issue raised by the pleadings. Here the
witnesses must be produced before the adverse party in order that such
party may have the opportunity to cross-examine the witness; a witn~ss
can truthfully make an affidavit and tell truthfully of facts which
standing alone would tend to convict, but not tell all of the facts, which,
if told, would tend to acquit, and if .the adverse paro was present and
had a chance to ask about the antold facts he probably would bring out
the truth but if he was present or had an opportunity to be present
and failed to take advantage of his right to cross-examine the witness,
then he can not complain for the reason that he has had his day in
court and by his own negligence he must suffer the consequences of
his acts.
While this may seem to many members of this Grand Lodge as
elementary law, yet we have had so many Brothers ask us why an
affidavit can net be used as evidence we have deemed it proper to give
a full definition of the word and point out the difference between an
affidavit and a deposition which is the proper mode of taking the testimony of witnesses when living at a distance and can not conveniently
attend before a Commission.
Article IV., Part VI., of the Constitution of this Grand Lodge
points out the . way evidence should be procured and does not need any
explanation.
The only question not covered is where a deposition is desired
when the tdal proceeds e.xparte and the residence of the accused is not
known, in which event we are of the opinion that if the record shows
that the residence of the accused is unknown, the accuser should apply

712

713

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

~o the Master to fix a time and place for the taking< of the d;position
m the same manner as the fixing the time to prnceed with the t · I
"d d.
na
e_xparte, as prov1 e m Section 3 of Article 4, Part 6, of the Constitu-

The M:. w:. Edmund C. Atkinson, Chairman of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following
reports:

tion.

To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

There being· no evidence upon which a conviction could be sustained we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption.

Resolved, · That the action of Manila Lodge, No. 342, and Sisson
Lodge, No. 310, be and the same are hereby reversed and the cases
remanded for new trials.
Respectfully submitted,

J. D. MURPHY,}
H. M. OwtNs,
w. H. WASTt,

.

Committee.
.

. ..

The Commit~ee on Jurisprudence, to whom the above
was ref~rred, havmg reported favorably, the report was concurred m and the resolution adopted.
Bro. William H. Edwards presented the following:
WHERtAS, In the report of the v:. w:. Grand Lecturer at the
communication of this Grand Lodge in 1906 it was recommended that
"Anderson's Manual" be referred to its author for revision1 and such
recommendation was approved by the committee to whom it was referred, and the report of said committee was adopted by this Grand
Lodge and referred to the Committee on Finance; and
WHEREAS, no report was made thereon by such committee and no
a.ppropriation made for the purpose of carrying out such reco~enda­
bon, and
WHERtAS, it would be of manifest advantage and benefit that sai:l
"Anderson's Manual" should be revised and compiled to date· now
' · '
therefore be it

Resolve~, Th~t the ~aid. "Anders~n's Manual" be, and it is hereby
reterred to its author, with mstructions to revise and compile the same
and that it be published and circulated as soon as practicable;
'

The Grand Master early in the year had numerous requests for an
interpretation of the resolution adopted at the last annual communication of the Grand Lodge · concerning committees of investigation on
petitions for degrees and 'applications for membership, and in response
thereto he gave his construction of that resolution as follows:
'(l)ur interpretation of the resolution adopted at the last Annual
Communi<;ation of the Grand Lodge of California in reference to keeping secret the names of brethren appointed on committees of investigation on petitions for degrees and applications for membership, and
our judgment as to the proper method of procedure are as follows :
"The intention of the resolution being to secure absolute secrecy,
the names of the brethren l/.ppointed on these committees should not,
in our opinion, be given by the Master to the Secretary, to enable him,
as formerly, to notify the brethren of their appointment; neither should
their reports be returned to the Secretary; but the Master himself
should severally notify the members of the committees of their :.11.1pointment, not revealing to one the identity of the others, and their .
reports should he rendered by them directly to him, and when practicable \hould be given verbally, and if in writing, after having subserved the purpose of informing the Master of the results of the investigations should be by him destroyed ; and his simple announcement to
the Lodge of such results will be all the information concerning these
reports conveyed by him to anyone.''
The foregoing decision is approved by the Committee.
Your Committee to whom was referred a resolution to withhold
mileage from the representative of a Lodge having an inmate at the·
Masonic Home at Decoto unless he shall have visited said Masonic
Home at some time within twelve months next preceding Qis application for mileage, beg leave to report that in order to recommend the ,
passage of this resolution it will be necessary to change the Constitution
and General Regulations of this Grand Lodge.
We therefore recommend that said resolution do not pass.
Respectfully,

· Res~lved, further, that a sufficient sum of money be and it is hereby

EDMUND C. ATKINSON,
]AMES w. ANDJ';RSON,
SAMUEI. C. DENSON,
GEORGE W . HuN'l'tR,
MOTl,EY H. FI.INT,

appr.op~1ated fro.m the. fund~ of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of

pubhshmg and c1rculatmg said manual when so revised and compiled.

Which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
12

l

.

Committee.

J

714

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Both which were concurred in and the recommenda;ion
·

~dopted. ·

The M.". w:. Edmund .<;; . .Atkinson, Ch.Urman of the
Committee on Jurispriidence, presented ·a majority report
as follows:
To t}ie M.'. w:·. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was resubmitted the decision of the
Grand Master in relation to avouchment, hereby modify the sa~e so as
fo state the rule a little more broadly, as follows :
No Mason can rightfully vouch for a visiting Brother unless he
shall have sat with him in open Lodge or have examined him under
proper authority; provided, however, that said vi~iting Brother can .and
does prove himself to be in good standi~g by written evidence under
the seal of his Lodge; and provided further, that any Master· Mason
who knows of his own knowledge that a Brother applying for the right
<tf visitation. is a Master Mason may vouch for such visiting Brother
provided that said visiting _Brother can and does prove himself to be. in
good standing by proper document under the seal of his own Lodge;
~nd provided further, that sitting in any m.eeting of the so-called higher
bodies of Masonry shall not constitute good ground for avouchment.
Respectfully submitted,

c.

EDMUND
ATKINSON, }
]AMl:S W. ANDl:RSON, · Committee.
M<Yl'UY H . Fr.INT,
.

The M :'. W.". George W. Hunter, from same committ~e, presented a minority report as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF 0ALIFORNIA.

715

of his Lodge that he is in good standing in his own Lodge, and no
proper avouchment can be made except as herein defined.
Respectfully submitted,
•

Gtol!.Gt W. HuNTl!R, )
Committee.
$AMUl!r. C. DENSON,

The minority report was adopted.
The M .". W:. Bro. Hunter also presented the following
report:
I
,
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The term "Past Master," as defined in Article II. of Part VII. of
the Constitution, is hereby amended and modified to read. as follows :
This title applies only to one who has been regularly elected or
named in a charter and installed and has served a term as Master of
a chartered Lodge within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge and
who rem~ins a member . in good standing of one of its subordinates;
provided, that one who has been regularly elected or named · in a charter and installed and has served a term as Master of a chartered Lodge
within the jurisdiction of any other Grand Lodge recognized by this
Grand Lodge, and who has affiliated with or become a member of a
subordinate Lodge within this jurisdiction and who remains a member
in good standing of one of its subordinates may take the honorary title
of "Past Master," but shall not thereby become a member of this Grand
Lo~
.
Respectfully submitted,

c.

EDMUND
ATKINSON,
JAMl!S w. ANDERSON,
SAMUtr. C. DENSON,

l

]Committee.

Groaci;: W. HuNTtR,

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, to whom was resubmitted the decision of the
Grand Master in relation to avouchment hereby modify the same so as ·
t? state the rule a little more broadly as follows :
No Mason can rightfully vouch for a visiting Brother unless he
shall have sat with him in open Lodge or has examined him under
·proper authority, or. in case a member of one Lodge has sat in open
Lodge with a visiti1,1g Brother, such Brother so sitting can vouch for
such visiting Brother to a member of any other Lodge, all three being
present, and such Brother to whom such avouchment is made can then
vouch for such visiting Brother to the Master of his Lodge; provided
such visiting Brother can and does produce written evidence under seal

MOTr.EY H. Fr.INT,

\Vhich was unanimously adopted.

Bro. Oral M. Goldaracena, Chairman of the Committee
on Finance, presented the following report:
To tlie M.'. w:. Grand Lodge cf California:
Your Committee on Finance beg leave to report as follows :
BOARDS OF REI.Il:F.

We have received and carefully considered the reports of the Boards
of Relief frotll the cities of San Francisco, Oakland, Los Angeles, Sacramento and Manila, and offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption :

716

PROCEEDINGS OF. THE

Resolved, That the sum of $7,300 be and the same is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided as follows,
viz:
$4,000 to the Board of Relief of San Francisco, Cal.
3,000 to the Board of Relief of Los Angeles, Cal.
$300 to the Board of Relief of Manila, Philippine Islands.
SALARIES OF THE GRAND OFFICERS.

We have had under consideration the salaries of the Grand Officers
of the Grand Lodge and an expert accountant of the Finance Committee and report thereon as follows, and recommend its adoption:
For the salary of the Grand Treasurer .......•...•.......... $ 200 00
For the salary of the Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,000 00
For the salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary. . . . . . . . • . . . 1,8(X) 00
For salary of the Grand Organist . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
For the services of the Grand Tyler .. : . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
125 00
For the services of the Chairman of the Committee on Corre200 00
· spondence .. . ................ : . ... . . ..... ............. .
For ·contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used
in defraying of actual expenses mcurred by him, in the
' performance of his duties, to be paid in equal quarterly
installments if required ................................ . 1,200 00
For the salary of the Grand Lecturer ....................... . 1,800 00
100 00
For Expert Accountant of Finance Committee.: ............ .
No amount has been designated for the contingent expenses of the
Grand Lecturer. As your Committee are unable to determine the
amount required, we recommend that the Grand Lecturer file with the
Grand Secretary an itemized account of his actual expenses incurred in
the discharge of his duties, said account when presented to be audited
by the Committee . on Accounts and paid as other expenses are paid.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA MASONIC HOME.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition of the Board
of Directors of the Southern California Masonic Home. asking for an
appropriation of $5,000, and also the resolution appropriating from the
funds of the Grand Lodge the sum of $S,OOO towards the support of said
Home until an endowment of $100,000 should be permanently established, report as follows :
A large number of members of Masonic Lodges in Southern California have appeared before your Committee and earnestly advocated
the granting of said petition. They have shown to us that more than
seventy-five Lodges in Southern California are desirous that this appropriation should be made. They have personally assured us that they

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

'

717

have a firm and fixed belief that an eridowment fund of $100,000 will
be raised to endow such Home, and that no other or further appropriation than the one now sought will be necessary, or hereafter asked

for said Home; that this appropriation is necessary for them to maintain said Home while they are raising said endowment fund of $100,000.
In consideration of this assurance on the part of these Masonic
Brethren and in recognithn of what they, have done in creating this
Masonic Hoine, we .hereby. offer the· following resolution a,nd ~ceommerid its adoption :
·

Resolve_d, That the sum of $5,000 be and the same js her:eby appropriated from the General Fund of the Grand. Lodge to the Southern
Califprnia Maspqic Home for the support of said Home until the said
. endowment fund shall be permanently .{!stablished, to be paid in the
·following manner : $1,250 to be paid forthwith; the further sum of
$1;250 when the Board of Directors of said Home ' shafl satisfy the
Grand Master that they have secured money and ' pledges for said permanent endowment fund in a sum together amounting to $25,000; the ·
further sum of $1,250 when said Board of Directors shall satisfy the
Grand Master that they ·have secured money and pledges ·together
;imounting to the further.sum of $25,000 for said permanent endowment
fund; and the further sum of $1,250 to. be paid to said Boar.d of Directors .of said Home· when they have satisfied the Grand Master that
they have secured money and pledges together amounting to the further
sum of $25,000 for said permanent endowment fund.
The said appropriation is made upon the condition that the said
Board of Directors of. said Home shall, at the next session of this
Grand .Lodge, file their detailed ~tatement of receipts, disbursements and
financial condition of said Home.
Ci.AIM OF ExcELSIOR LoDGE,

No. ' 166.

Your Committee, to whom was referred the claim of Excelsior
Lodge, No. 166, 'for $160.50, incurred ~n the trial of Harry J. Lask,
conducted by California Lbdge; No.' l, have carefully considered the
proposition and find as follows':
The said trial resulted from the recommendation of the Grand Master 't o said Excelsior Lodge, as . part of l;iis duties in caring for the
General Relief Fund, and. was by his order transferred to California
Lodge No. 1.
.
·
,
The expense of said trial, as shown by said claim, was paid to said
California Lodge No. 1 by said Excelsior Lodge No. 166. We therefore recommend its payment. This recommendation is made upon the
distinct understanding that such appropriation shall not establish a
precedent.
.

718

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Cr.AIM oF Tuor.UMNE LoooE, No. 8.

Your Committee to whom was referred the petition of Tuolumne
Lodge, No. 8, asking for the remission of its Grand Lodge dues for this
year, have considered the same, and we find as follows:
That during the past year said Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, has been
called upon to render financial assistance to a number of its members
who were taken seriously ill while absent from home; that during this
year said 'Lodge has lost several of its older-members, thereby entailing
upon the Lodge a large funeral expense. That these expenditures
together with the usual charity claims paid by it, have amounted to
approximately $1,350; that by reason of these facts said Tuolumne
Lodge, No. 8, should have its Grand Lodge dues for this year .remitted.
we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

Resolved, That the Grand Lodge dues of Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8,
for this year be and the same are hereby remitted.
Poll.TRAIT oF GRAND MASGER.
We respectfully recommend that our retiring Grand Master,
EDWARD H. HART, be and he is hereby requested to sit for his portrait
and that the Grand Secretary be and he is hereby instructed to have
said portrait when finished, suitably framed and placed in the office of
the Grand Secretary.
THJI MASONIC HOME OF CAI.IFORNIA.
We have conferred with the Chairman and members of the Board
of Trustees of the Masonic Home of California, and have given the
affairs and necessities of said institution, careful consideration as a
result of which we offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

Resolved, That a per' capita tax of $1 per year be levied upon the ,
subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction; said tax to be due and payable
to this Grand Lodge in the same manner and at the same time as the
annual Grand Lodge dues; and that said per capita tax, when received
by the Grand Lodge, be paid by the Grand Treasurer to the Board of
Trustees of said Masonic Home of California, to be used by it in the
support and maintenance of said Home, and that said transactions be ·
incorporated in and made a part of the Grand Treasurer's Annual
Report.
RtPRtS:ENTATIVJI FUND.
Your Committee presents the following preamble and resolution and
recommend its adoption :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

'719

Wm:atAS, The Grand Lodge has heretofore imposed a sped~l ~ax
for the pay of representatives and members of the Grand Lodge, which
.
has been kept in the General Fund ; and,
Wm>REAS We 'find there is now a surplus arising from said tax
·
over the amo~nt necessary for the payment of such representative& and
members of the Grand Lodge, and it is desirable that the money so
levied and collected should be kept in a separate fund:
Resolved, That the moneys received during this fiscal year from the
tax levied for the pay of representatives and members of the Grand
Lodge be placed in a permanent fund to be known as the "Representative F~nd"; and that all moneys hereafter ~eceived from the levy of the
per capita tax, recommended by the Committee on the Pay_of Members,
and authorized by the Grand Lodge, shall be credited to said fund, and
that all allowances made by the Grand Lodge for the pay of representatives and member!, be paid by warrants drawn upon such funds.
Tll.ANSFl!R. To NEw TitMPI.lt FuND.
. Your Committee present the following preamble and resolution and
recommend its' a-doption :.
WHERl\AS, Fr.o m. ou:r consideration of the reports referred to ·us an_d
the condition of the finam;es of the Grand Lodge, we fi_n d that there is
a surplus of moneys now on hand which will not be necessary to meet
current expenses for th.c coming year; and,
.
.
.
WHEREAS, It is desirous of applying as large a sum as 1s available
in purchasing stock for this Grand Lodge in the New Temple Corporation:
.
Resolved That the sum of $15,CXX> be and the same 1s hereby appropriated from• the funds of this ~rand Lo~ge, said sum to be added to
the amount of $210,000 heretofore appropriated for the pu~pose of subscribing for and taking stock in the New. Temple Corporation, the sai:ne
to be used in the same manner and by the same persons as are designated in the resolution relative to the appropriation of said $210,CXX>.
G'RAN1> S:ECRJ!TAltYS REPORT.
We recommend that hereafter at all yearly Communi.cations of this
Grand Lodge the Grand Secretary file with his report an Itemized statement of his disbursements.
\Ve further recommend that he file an itemized statement of his
disbursements for the past year and that the same be published in the
Proceedings as part of his report.
REPORTS -oF OFFIClRS AND ExPJIRTS.
We herewith submit reports of our expert accountant, Thomas T.
Atkinson, as reports of this Committee upon ~he books of account and

720

PROCEED!NGS OF i'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
210 00
Sept. IS. $7,000 Blue Lake Bo~ds @ 6% ...... .
Deposit account A. Borel, Aug., Sept..
135 42
1907.
120 00
Jan. 11. s: P. R. R."Bonds 4%.: .. : . .,: ....... .
Deposit acc'f A: Borel, Oct., Nov., Dec.
229 55
638 56
Feb. 25. Union Trust Company .............. .
210 00
Mar. 16. $7,000 Blue 'Lake Bonds @ 6% ....... .
Mar. 30. Deposit acc't. A. Borel, Jan., Feb. Mar.
170 51
120 00
Aug. 6. S. P..R. R. Bonds, 4% .............. .
Deposit acc't A. Borel & Co., April,
206 73·
May, Ju.ne, July ....... , ......•.....
July 31. Union Trust Company .. ,,, ........... . 2,193 24

vouchers of the Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer, Board of Trustees
of t~e M~soµic Home of California respectiveiy. . ·

To the Finance Committee of the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of F. & A. M.
of California·:
DEAR SIRS AND BRETHREN-I hereby submit this my Report of the
Financial Transactions of this Grand Lodge, as set forth by the books,
vouchers, etc. of Brother George Johnson, Grand Secretary, and Brother
·Edward Coleman, Grand Treasurer.
.
.
I have carefully verified and checl,ced all retl.!rnS from all the Subordinate Lodge$ of this jurisdiction for the Masonic fiscal year ending
July 31st, 1907 ;. have passed upon the stubs of receipts sent to the
'$ecretaries for cash received from them for this . Grand Lodge, have
checked the receipts for moneys paid by Grand Secretary George Johnson to Crand 'treasurer Edward Coleman, and find all correct and in
excellent order.
The various sources of cash receipts are here enumerated:

DISBURSEMENTS.
164 Warrants, Nos. 38 to 201 inclusive, by Grand Secretary
during year .......................................... $ 33,690 97
Representatives of Lo4ges on Pay-Roli. ......•........... :. 4,512 30
Gra11d Officers
. . . . •. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
183 20
Chairman Standing Committees "
. . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . .
35 00
Inspectors
·
"
.•...... , . . . . . . . . . . . . .
452 30
Total Disbursements ................................ _. .•. $ 38,873 77 ·
Balance Cash Forward.: ........ : ......................... 208,845 98

DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.

372 00
320 00
295 00
9 00
1 00

Aug. 1, 1907. With A. Borel &-Co ........................ $ 29,584 18
Aug. 1, 1907.
Union Trust Company..... . . . . . . . . . . . 179,261 80
$208,845 98
Being balance cash with Treasurer, as per this report ........ $208,845 98
194,073 00

In company with Grand Treasurer Edward Coleman, Chairman of
Finance Committee Bro. 0. M. Goldaracena, we visited the California
Sale Deposit Company's vaults and saw in the box of this Grand Lodge:

t
From Fire Insurance ................ .
For Regalia destroyed in fire ....... .
From Interest •......................

$247,719 75

Total

997 00

' From Mascnic Hall Association ...... .
Viz Dividend N·o. 115 ............... 17,643 00
" First payment account sale ..... , 117,620 00
" Second payment account sale. . . . 58,810 00

$247,719 75

Total

Balance forward .............. ·............................ $ 6,595 39
1906.
Aug. I. From all Subordinate Lodges ........... ·. . . . . . . . . 40,920 35
Viz: ·For dues ...................... $39,430 35
" 8 dispensations to open
Lodges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
600 00
" 9 fees for charters.~ . . . . . . .
450 00
" sundry dispensations . . . . . .
380 00
From extinct Lodge, Ionic 121. .
60 00
From Sundry Sales ..... , ....· . : ..... .
Viz Diplomas ..................... .
" Manuals ..................... .
" Monitors ............ 1 • • • • • • • • •
" Proceedings .......... , ....... .
" Constitutions ................. .

721

900 00
900 00

7 Blue Lake Water Company Bonds, par $1,000 each.
6 Pacific Refunding Bonds,
"
"
"
5,881 Shares of Masonic Hall Association.
Also jointly we verified the cash as above stated to be on deposit
as stated.

4,234 01

•

722

723

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Assl!"l's.
Cash in hands of Grand Treasurer . •... . . . ."... . .". : . . . . ..... $208,845 98
7 Blue Lake Bonds @ 110. ... ... ............. .. ........ 7,700 00
6 Pacific Refunding Bonds @ •..••..•. • .. •• .••..• . .. . •
5,881 Shares Maso·nic Hall Association ... ... . . . .. .. , . .... . .
Final small dividend expected .. .. . . ....... . . . .. . . . .. . .... . .

Mr. Edward Peabody, PreJident of .Masonic Home of California:
Dl:AR Sra AND BROTHER-I submit this report of. my examination of
the accounts of the MASONIC HOME OF CALIFORNIA.
I with great care and detail, verified· the tabulated account of
monthly payments, showing an expenditure of $33,449 09 and also the
lengthy itemized schedule of the various payments from September 1st,
1906, to August 31st, 1907 inclusive, and pleasurably testify to the
absolute accuracy therof.
Also, as per previous report, I similarly verified the Special Christmas. Gift account, 1906, with' receipts and disbursements alike of $2,203.
Other items I was unable to pass upon, for the reason that I was
not furri!shed with the necessary pass-books and vouchers, but reasonably conclude they a re also correct.
Respectfully,
Taos. T . ATKINSON, C. P. A .

In conclusion, it is with pleasure for me to add that the books of
the Secretary are a model of neatness, that all accounts of both Officers
are entirely correct, and the results must prove gratifying to the members of this M,.". W.". Grand Lodge, and to all interested brethren.
Very respectfully;
Tnos. T. ATKINSON, Certified Public Accountant.
ADDITION TO YJO:ARLY ltl:PORT.
Since July 31st, 1907, Brother George Johnson, the Grand Secretary,
has received, with correct returns, from all the Subordinate Lodges
under the jurisdiction of the M.".
Grand Lodge of F. and A. M. of
the State of California, with gratifying results, vi:i:
·
Balance cash with Treasurer, as report ... . .... . .. . ....... .. $208,845 98
From Subordinate Lodges, dues. . ....... .. . . . . . . . . . . : . . . . . . . 43,378 70
" Dispensations to re-ballot,. . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
30 00
" Interest per Grand Treasurer.·. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1,204 12
A. Borel & Co., August ...... , . .... . ..... $116 08
·
"
"
September ·.. . ·... . . . .. . . . . 173 80
Union Trust Company, August. . . . . . . . . . • . 456 49
"
"
"
September .. . ... : . ·457 75

w:.

•

*We also submit the summary of the financial condition of the
Grand Lodge as prepared by a member of our Committee, ·orrin S.
Henderson, and read in the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

0 . M. GoLDARACENA, }
ORRIN S. HENDERSON.
CHARUS L. PA'tTON,
Committee.
H .. D. LoVELAND,
.
A. J . MONROE,

Which was amended to read as follows:
T otal . . . .. . . ........... . ....... ... . . .. . ... . .. $253,458 80
DISBURSEMENTS.
There have been drawn and issued 21 Warrants amounting
to $2,324.01But only 11 of ~hese have been paid ....... : . .... .. ... . .. .. . $ 1,483 11
Furthermore$251,975 69
.The per capita tax of $1 each on 36,126 members of Lodges
.
was .... . . . ........ . ................ .. ...... . .... . .... $ 36,126 00
Sept. 5. Interest allowed . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
22 91
Which amount is deposited with A. Borel & Co. to the
credit of the Masonic Widows and Orphans' Home.
Very respectfully,
$ _36,148 91
Tnos. T. ATKINSON, Certified Public Accountant.

That the sum of $8,300 be and the same is hereby appropriated
from the funds of i:his Grand Lodge, to be divided as follows :
$4,000 to the Board of Relief of San F rancisco.
$4,000 to the Board of Relief of Los Angeles.
$300 to the Board of Relief of Manila.

And as thus amende.d it was concurred in and the resolutions adopted . .
, . Bro. William P. Filmer, Chairman of the Committee on
Pay of Me"r hbers; pre·sented the following report:
Your. Committee, .charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of ,
transportatinn far .one person from the location of each Lodge in the
"Not published ln the Proceedings. B:v direction of the Grand Master .
., .. .. .

( G. S.]

•

724

725..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA•

State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return and of
·reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the Offlcers or
Representatives in attendance from each Lodge, ·as well as the Grand
.Officers, Chairmen .?f Standing Committees, and Inspectors for their
necessary expenditure for transportation to and from the Gr~nd ~dge,
teport that they have carefully discharged that duty, and submit the
following
statement :
. I

John D. Murphey, 12th District, Bridgeport .......•...... . .. .
14 60
Fred'k L. Arbogast, 13th District, Nevada City ............ . .. .
Michael D. Lininger, 14th District, Auburn . . ..... ·.... . ......•
8 20
11 80
Emil Mayhem, 15th District, Chico .. . . ............... . ...... .
Jay W. Ashley, 16th Distri<;t, Yuba City . ..... .. . . .. . . . ... . .. .
9 20
Jefferson D. Danner, 17th District, Willows .. . .. . .. . .. .. . . .. .
Arthur V. McNab, 18th District, Ukiah . . .... . . . ............ .
8 00
Curtis J. Monroe, 19th DistriCt, Lakeport .. . ................ .
12 10
John H. Gunn, 20th District, Healdsburg .....••............. .
4
Alex. McDaid, 21st District, Vallejo . ......... : ....... . .... . .•
2 00
Levi Nuttall, 22nd District, Sacramento .. . ..... . ............ .
6 60
Byron Ball, 23rd District, Woodland .. ..... .. . . . . .. . .. . ..... .
6 10
Max Mierson, 24th District, Placerville ....... . ..... .. ... . ...•
13 40
James E. Dye, 25th District, Jackson .. . ..... . .. . .. . . . . . ..... .
10 15
Fred'k W. Clough, 26th .District, Angels Camp ............. . .
15 20
5 ()()
John Anderson, ·27th District, Stockton .. . .. . ..... .. .... . ....•
Louis N. Buttner, 28th District, Martinez .............. . ..... .
2 00
Daniel M. Watson, 29th District, Benicia .................. . . .
Delos W. Smythe, 33rd District, San Jose ............... . ..•.
6 30
Charles K. Tuttle, 34th District, Pacific Grove . ............ .. .•
John S. Larew, 35th District, Mariposa .. . .. . .. .. ·. . . , .. .. . . . .
Fred'k W. Yokum, 36th District, Merced ..... .. .............. · 9 20
Guy P. Doyle, 37th District, Bishop ........ ... .... . .. .. ..... .
James C. Pottle, 38th District, Fresno . .. .. ............... . .. .
11 80
Fred M . Velie, 39th District, Porterville ....... .. ......... . . .
17 00
Adam Brown, 40th District, Arroyo Grande ... , .......... .. . .
14 60
David J. Reese, 41st District, Ventura ........ . .......... . . .. . .
33 00
Charles H. Brown, 42nd District, Los Angeles ......... . .... .
35 00
35 ()()
Dana R. Weller, 43rd District, Los Angeles .. . ........ . . . .. . . .
Lemuel L. Test, 44th District, Pasadena . ............ . ....... .
Edwin P . Dewey, 45th District, Long Beach . .. ........ . .. . .. .
35
Philip H. Krick, 46th District, Anaheim ......... . ... . . ... ... .
36 60
Joseph B. Frith, 47th District, San Bernardino .. , ......... , .. .
Jam es H . Cassidy, 48th District, San Diego ..... . ............ .
36 00
Geo. F . Rodden, 52nd District, San Rafael. .................. .
70
Roderick G. Guyett, 53rd District, Palo Alto .......... . .... . .
1 90
John H . Bean, 54th District, Los Angeles ................. . .. .
35 00
37 ()()
Joseph R. Garthside, SSth District, Pomona ........••.•.......
22 20
Frank W . Robinson, 56th Dist rict, Bakersfield . . . . ..•.•.......•
35 ()()
Daniel Clave, Special District, Los Angeles . ... . .... . ....... . .

GRAND OFFICERS.

Oscar Lawler, Junior Grand Warden, Los Angeles ...... .. . . . $
Ernest E . Baker, ·Grand Chaplain; Oakland ... .. .. .... .. . . ... .
Delos W. Smythe, Grand Marshal, San Jose .. . .. . ... . .. . . . . . .
Chauncey C. Bush, Grand Bible Bearer, Redding ............... •
Arthur J. Thatcher, Grand Sword Bearer, Ukiah .... . ........ .
Thomas J . Baker, Senior Grand Deacon, Sacramento ......... .
Albert B. Webster, Jun.i or Grand Deacon, Oakland ... . ....... .
John T. Morrison; Senior Grand Steward, Berkeley .......... .
Albert L. Reed, Junior Grand Steward, Suisun . . .. . . ....... .. .
Louis L. Janes, Grand Pursuivant, Mill Valley .. .. ·. .... . . .. .. .
Total ..... . . ... ...... . ....... . .. .. .... . .. . ......... $

so

35 ()()
20

2 so

15 ()()

8 ()()
6 60
20

20
3 40
80
71 90

CHAIRMEN OF STANillNG COMMITTEES.

Edmund C. Atkinson, Jurisprudence, Sacramento ............ :
William P . Jeffries, Returns, Los Angeles . .. . .. .... .......... .
James B. Stevens, Correspondence, Mill Valley . ........... . . .
John D. Murphey, Grievance, Bridgeport ...... .... .. . . . . . ... .

6 60
35 ()()
80
57.60

Total : .. . ..... .. : ....... . . . ..... . ........... . ...... $ 100 oo
INSPECTORS.

Alonzo J. Monroe, 1st District, Eureka ....... .. .... . ......... $
Thomas J. Richards, 2nd District Mendocino
Charles W . Nutting, 3rd Distric~ Etna Mills: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : .
C. C. Corbie re, 4th District, Redding .....•.... •... . . .. . ......
Ernest C. Bonner, 5th District Alturas
Isaac F. Moffitt, 6th District, Corning.::::: : :::::::::::::::::
James I. Christie, 7th Distr"ict, Janesville ....... . . . . . : ....... .
James 0. Moncur, 8th District, Quincy .......•..• . ....•.....•
Gilbert May, 9th District, La Porte ....•.......•.•...........
E. L. Case, 10th District, Downieville .......... . .. . ......... .
Gaines L. Coats, 11th District, Sierraville ...... ... .......... .

20 ()()
15 ()()
15 ()()

so so
11 70
37
37 00

so

27 00
22 40

so

Total . .. .... . .... . ......... •. ...... ............... . . $ 766 75

\ 726

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

727

\

.

RtcAPlTUl:,A'l'ION.

*-For Representatives of Lodges ... . ........................ $4,514 70
For Grand Officers....................................... . ..
71 90
For Chairmen of Standing Committees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100 00
For Inspectors .. .. ...... . ...... ........... . . . ,....... . .. . .... 766 75'
Grand Total. ...... ... ....... . .................. . . ... $5,453. 35

Resolved, That. there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of this
jurisdiction for the current fiscal year, in addition to the dues prescribed
by the Constitution, the sum of fifteen cents for each member borne
upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said levy
shall be for the payment of Representatives, and shall be · paid at the
same time and in the manner prescribed for the payment of the
annual dues.
Your Committee desire to express their appreciation of valuable
assistance rendered by Representatives and Inspectors, in enabling it to
arrive at the actual facts regarding the cost of transportation of the
Representatives to and from the Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

WM. P. Fu.Mn,
CHAS. Sn:vtNs,

Tn:i;:o. J. M1r.r.IK:EN,
DAVID J. R:i;::i;:s:i;:,

} .
C

T. J. BAK:ER,
.t
omm1 tee
.

Which was concurred in and the resolution adopted.
On motion of the M.·. W. ·. Bro. Motley H. Flint, it was
ordered that the Grand Lodge printing be given to . the
Masonic Home, so far as practicable.
Bro. Thomas J. Baker presented the following report:
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California :
Your Committee to whom was referred the report of the Very ·
w: · William Harvey Edwards, Grand Lecturer, beg to report as
follows:
The Grand Lodge, the Inspectors and the Officers of the various
Lodges of this Grand jurisdiction have sustained a severe loss in the
retirement of Bro. Edwards as Grand Lecturer-<me who has been so
patient and painstaking in teaching the work to the brethren, yet
insiiting upon letter perfect work-always commending where it was
*For items see pages 668-675.

due, and never failing 'to censure where necessary, both Inspectors and
Officers ; yet done in that firm but pleasant way that could offend none.
We all love Bro. Edwards for his true worth as a man and a Mason
and the Grand Lodge and Masonry in general is to be congratulated
for having held for so many "years so efficient a Grand Officer and
teacher-one who was so peculiarly fitted for the position.
. We are pleased to note' from Bro. Edwards' report that he has
found the work done in most of the Lodges in a most creditable
manner, and that also in the Lodges that are so remotely situated as to
make it impossible.for the officers to obtain the necessary instruction.
yet the same spirit prevails for good work. . Such a report, coming as it
does from our Grand Lecturer, bespeaks much as a reward for his
patient and tireless teaching. 'While we are to lose Bro. Edwards as
our instructor, we are pleased to know that he has been placed in a
higher post of trust-one to which he is eminently fitted to fill not only
with great credit to ~imself, but with honor to our noble Fraternity.
And in conclusion we feel ' that we voice the sentiment of every
Mason in this jurisdiction when we .wish Bro. Edwards success and
God's richest blessiqg.
Respectfully submitted,
JAM ES

}

E. Dv:i;:, Committee.

BYRON BAU,

Which was concurred in.
The Grand Lodge was then called off ·until one thirty
o'clock this afternoon.

3Jn ·"ranh 14nhgr.
Afternoon Session,
Fr:ida.y, October 11th, A. L. 5907.
The Grand Lodge was called on at one thirty o'clock,
the Grand Master presiding. .
Bro. Oral M. Goldaracena, Chairman of the Committee
on Finance, presented. the following reports :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee have had under consideration the resolution
offered by Grand Lecturer Edwards and report as follows:

729

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

WR:ER:EAS, Grand Master Hart visited the Lodges· of Hawaii beyond
our shores at an expense in excess of ordinary calculations;
. Ta:EREFoR:E, B:E IT Resolved, That an appropriation of $400 be appro~
priated from the General Fund of the Grand Lodge to reimburse our
retiring Grand Master for his additional expenses.
B:E IT 1''URTR:ER Resolved, That this appropriation shall not be considered a precedent.

The Grand Lodge then proceedea to the installation and
investment of the Grand Officers elected and to be ·appointed.
At the re.quest of the Grand Master-elect his appointments
for the ensuing year were read by the Grand Secretary, as
follows: For

728

-Orand Chaplain ........ ERN:EST E. BAK:ER . . .. . .. of Oakland;
Grand Orator . ...... . .. JACOB NI:ETO . .. . ·. . . . . ... " San Francisco ;
Asst. Grand Secretary . . HARRY S. JOHNSON . ... . " San Francisco;
-Orand Marshal ......... WILLIAM KtTTN:ER. . . . . . " San Diego ;
-Orand Bible Bearer . ..•. CHAUNC:EY C. Bu sa.. . . " Redding ;
Grand Standard Bearer.ALBERT B. W :EBST:ER .. .. . " Oakland;
Grand Sword Bearer ... EMANU:EL J. Louis . . . . . " San Diego ;
Senior Grand Deacon ..• D:ELOS W. SMYTB:E ... . . " San Jose;
Junior Grand Deacon .. . ADAM BROWN .. . . . . .'. . . " Orroyo Grande;
Senior Grand Steward .. JAMES C. ENSIGN .... .. . " Hanford;
Junior Grand Steward . . FR:ED W . VAN SICKL:EN . . " Alameda;
Grand Pursuivant ...... JOSHUA D. TucK:ER .. . . . " Honolulu, T. H . ;
Grand Organist .......• SAMU:EL D . MAY:ER ... . . . " San Frandsco ;
-Orand T yler . . . . . . . .... G:EORG:E P. ADAMS. . . . . . . " Sari Francisco ;

Your Committee to whom was referred the .foregoing petition
recommend its adoption, and that a committee consisting of the Grand
Master, the Gr.a nd Secretary and the Chairman of the Finance Committee lef the contract for printing 2,000 copies of said Revised Anderson's· Manual on competitive bids.
0. M. GoLDARAO:NA, }
CBARL:ES L. PATTON,
ORRIN S. H:END:ERSON, Committee.
H. S: LoVU.AND,
.
A. J. MoNRO:E,

The Grand Officers were then duly installed in their
several · stations and places by Grand Master Edward H.
Hart, assisted by Past Grand Master James B. Stevens as
Master of Ceremonies.
On behalf of the Gra~d Lodge, the W . ·. Alonzo J.
Monroe, presented our retiring Grand Master with a beautifol chest of silver.
The Grand Master announced the ·appointment of the
Standing Committees for the ensuing year, as follows:

Both which were adopted.
The hour having arrived for the election of the Grand
Officers for the ensuing year, the Grand Master named as
tellers Bros. Edward S. West, Elmore M . Billings and
Ernest C. Bonner, and the election proceeded with the
following results:
The R. ·. \V. ·. George M. Perine, of San Francisco, was
elected Grand Master.
The R. ·. W. ·. Re11ben H. Lloyd, of San Francisco. was
elected Deputy qrand Master.
·
'rhe R ..". W.". Oscar Lawler, of Los Angeles, was
elected Senior Grand ·w arderi.
The W:. \Villiam F. Pier~e, of San Francisco was
elected Junior Grand Warden.
'
· The V.". W:. Edward Coleman, of San Francisco, was
elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.". \V.". George Johnson, of San Francisco was
elected Grand Secretary.
'
The V.". W.". Thomas J. Baker, of San Francisco was
elected Grand Lecturer.

C?n Jurisprudence:
M .·. W. ·. Frank M. Angellotti,
"
William S. W ells,
"
George W . Hunter,
Samuel C. Denson,
Charles L. Patton.
"

l

On Grievances :
w:. John D. Murphey,
" William W . Waste,
" Edward Sweeney,
" George E. Church,
" Henry M. Owens.

13

On Returns:

W:. Charles Bone,
" William P . Jeffries,
" E rnest C. Bonner,
" James C. Pottle,
" Ormond M. Robbins.

On Finance :
R." . w:. Jacob H . Neff,
M.". W:. Motley H . Flint,
W:. Oral M. Goldaracena,
" Ralph Lowe,
" Leo V . Youngworth.

730

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

On Pay of Members:
w:. William P. Filmer,
" Amos Stevens,
" James A. Stowe,
" Thomas J. Richards,
" Edward S. West.

On Correspon.dence:
W. ·.Alonzo J. Monroe,
" John T . Morrison,
" Curtis J. Monroe,
" Harry C. Knox,
" Joseph D. Abrams,

On Accounts:
W. ·. Henry Ascroft,
" Edward Peabody,
" Frederick L. Hansen,
" Hugh J . Owen,
" Robert McMillan.

He also announced the appointment of Bros. Edward
Peabody, John F. Hughes and Frank O'Donnell as Trustees
of the Masonic Home at Decoto.

STATEMENT

Of receipts by th<; Grand Secretacy, for account of the Grand Lodge,
from August 1st, up to and including the 4th day of October, 1907:
FUND.

1907.
Aug.

"

"

The Grand Secretary reported that the Lodges to whom
charters had been granted at this Communication, had been
numbered, and are located as follows:
Highland Park, No. 382, at Los Angeles, Los Angeles County;
Orosi,
" 383, " Orosi, Tulare County;
El Centro,
" 384, " El Centro, San Diego County;
Dinuba,
" 385, " Dinuba, Tulare County;
Corregidor,
" 386, " Manila, Philippine Islands;
Coalinga,
" 387, " Coalinga, Tulare County;
Parnassus,
" 388, " San Francisco, San Francisco County;
Palos Verdes,
" 389, " Long Beach, Los Angeles County.

"

"

He also reported that, of the three hundred and fifteen
Lodges existing in the jurisdiction, two hundred and .s eventy
had been represented.
·
All business being completed, the Grand Lodge, F. &
A. M. of California was closed in Ample Form.
GEORGE M. PERINE,
GEORGE JOHNSON,
Grand Master.
Grand Secretary.

7~1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"
"
"
"

"

'>

1, Woodbridge,
1, Oakdale,
1, Sotoyome,
1, Meridian,
1, Table Mountain,
1, Vacaville,
1, Valley,
1, Orange· Grove,
1, Reqlands,
1, Nevada,
1, Quitman,
1, Manzanita,
1, Excelsior,
1, Speranza Italiana,
1, Mill Valley,
1, Alta,
1, Pacific,
1, Benicia,
1, Monterey,
1, Grafton,
1, Ione,
1, Silveyville,
1, Los Gatos,
1, Willits,
1, Gardena,
1, Palo Alto,
1, Jewel,
1, Welcome,
1, King David's,
1, Porterville,
1, Yount,
1, Mission,
1, Suisun,
2, Mountain View,
2, Clay,
2, San Jacinto,

Sdues in full to l

General.

13lpl July, 1907.j$
275
do
do
\23
do
do
182
do
do
do
do
·124
134
do
do
135
do
do
293
do
do
300
do
do
13
do
do
88
do
do
102
do
do
166
do
do
219
do
do
356
do
do
333
do
do
136
do
do
5
do
do
217
do
do
141
do
do
80
do
do
201
do
do
292 . do
do
365
do
do
372
do
do
346
do
do
374
do
do
255
do
do
209
do
do
303
do
do
12
do
do
169
do
do
55
do
do
194
do
do
101
do
do
338
do
do

Home.

82 85 $
83 00
57 40
52 00
150 85
143 00
44 80
44 00
64 25
55 00
145 05
119 00
47 65
47 00
101 80
84 00
185 35
173 00
162 65
147 00
27 65
27 00
30 45
' 31 00
441 40
412 00
170 40
152 00
129 70
86 00
40 95
41 00
600 50
510 00
128 70
106 00
84 70
66 00
25 65
27 00
53 50
50 00
59 15
57 00
69 05
59 00
55 80
44 00
75 05
39 00
141 40
112 oo·
91 55
49 00
89 25
75 00
123 65
· 107 00
153 30
114 00
149 50
130 00
950 60
828 00
121 65
87,. 00
79 00
60 00
63 25
55 00
70 85
63 00

732

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. 1907. :
Aug. 2, Fillmore,

"!
"
"
"
"

"

2, Alturas,
2, Tehachapi,
2, Rio Vista,
2, Visalia,
2, California,
2, Vesper,
2, Enterprise,
2, Santa Barbara,
2, Henry Clay,
2, Mt. Jackson,
2, Reedley, ·
3, Mendocino,
3, Pentalpha,
3, Granite,
3, San Francisco,
3, Doric,

·"

"
~

"

.~

"

"

3, Surprise Valley,
3, Union,
3, Silver Gate,
3, Hiram,
3, Sierra Valley,
3, Humboldt,
3, Alameda,
3, Cali5toga,
3, Acacia,
3, Hornitos,
S, Oxnard,
5, Forbestown,
5, Anaheim,
5, ;Russian River,
5, Winnedumah,
5. Morning Star,
5, Hope,
5, Pacific Grove,
-. ;5, Santa Paula,
S, Parfaite Union, .
5, Olive Branch,

5, ~·ashington,
5, Pomona,
5, San Pedro,

. . .\

GRAND LODGE OF C~RNIA.

FUND.
Generat · Home.

1

FUND.
General. Home.

1907.

· 379{dues in full to
31 July, 1907. $ 48 45 $ 31 00
43 ()()
248
do
do
47 85
313
do
do
95 90
'82 00
59 ()()
208
do
74 05
do
128 . d~
133 ()()
do
154 35
599 ()()
1
do
do
600 00
84
do
134 00
do
. 168 30
do
70
do
175 35
1S3 00
109 ()()
192
do
126 5S
do
9S
do
do
72 60
68 00
do
29S
do
52 30
54 00
42 ()()
do
304
do
S3 90
179
do
122 00
do
15S 90
do
574 7S
202
do
S25 00
63 ()()
do
222
do
60 00
360
do
do
218 80
144 00
216
do
446 30
394 00
do
30 ()()
do
235
do
29 50
19S ()()
do
S8
do
215 25
do
do
219 80
164 00
296
21 ()()
do
do
43
20 95
37 ()()
do
184
39 lS
do
300 ()()
do
do
3S8 00
79
do · do
98 ()()
16i
106 10
64 ()()
233
do
do
71 80
92
do
do
26 00
39 70
do
98
do
4630
34 00
do
341
do
176 9S
161 00
do
42 8S
so
do
43 00
do
207
do
59 00
79 05
do
181
76 45
do
71 00
287
do
do
83 8S
63 00
179 ()()
68
do
do
194 05
234
do
do
58 25
55 00
331
do
do
50 95
41 00
. 95 ()()
do
291
do
107 2S
do
132 ()()
17
160 40
do
do
269
do
129 70
106 00
20
.do
do
124 65 . 107 00
205 '45 . 171 00
246
do
do
332 '<lo
do
115 75
105 00

Aug. 5, Live Oak, '

.

"

•

"

c;

•

..
~

"
"
"

"
'"
"
"
"
"
. "

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

5, South W;st,
5, Teme!ltal,
5, Pajaro,
5, Palmyra,
5, Gold Hill,
5, Los Angeles,
5, Fidelity,
6, Hanford,
6, Occidental,
6, Liberty,

733

in full to}
61 {dues
31 July, 1907. $
283

314
110
26
32
42
1;m
279
Z2

299
240
81
133
211
3SO
27

6, Colusa,
6, Yolo,
6, Yosemite,
6, San Benito,
6, Cavite,
6, Trinity,
6, Tehama,
3
267
6, Galt,
191
6, Marin,
6, La Grange,
99
97
6, Jefferson,
. 290
6, East Gate,
378
6, Mizpah,
6, Delano,
309
328
6, Redondo,
352
6, Sunset,
6, South San Francisco, 212
215
6, Oak Grove,
302
7, Santa Lucia,
260
7, King Solomon's,
18
7, Mountain Shade,
2S9
·7, Evergreen,
45
7, Crescent,
210
7, Friendship,
39
7, Yuba,
132
7, Sincerity,
117
7, Concord,
188
7, Oakland,
7, Con'st1elo,
325
323
7, Whittier,

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
"do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do'
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

720 10 $
62 30
90 35
143 75
168 75
S2 3S
363 80
.497 so
14S so
566 lS
170 6S
83 90
38 2S
20 9S
98 25
94 7S
70 90
200 ()()
42 30
206 so
99 OS
36 15
473 80
31S OS
35 3S
97 8S
206 6S
227 SS
500 3S
50 90
557 40
40 10
24S 85
75 70
269 00
99 95
48 lS
104 15
522 6S
72 10
147 6S

638 00
54 00
73 ()()
125 00
165 ()()
S3 00
304 00
4SO 00
130 ()()
537 00
147 ()()
82 00
3S 00
21 ()()
9S ()()
69 00
62 00
180 00
34 00
lSO 00
99 00
37 ()()
364 00
119 00
33 ()()
83 00
127 00
169 00
433 00
42,00
492 00
38 00
223 00
66 00
240 00
81 00
37 00
97, 00
427 00
58 00
127 00

734

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THEFUND.
General. Home.

1907.

Au it. 7, Pr,~sidio,
8, Phoenix,
8, Amador,
8, Geo. Washington,
8, San Mateo,
8, Hermann,
8, Illinoistown,
8, l,a Fayette,
8, Las Palmas,
8, Gibsonville,
8, Evening Star,
8, Norwalk,
8, Sanger,
8, Owen,
8, North Star,
9, Downey,
9, Lexington,
9, Covina,
9, Mt. Zion,
9, Fort Bragg,
9, Hesperian,
9, Penrhyn,
9, Molino,
9, Calaveras,
9, Elsinore,
" 9, San Simeon,
9, Hollenbeck,
9, San Joaquin,
9, Amity,
r,
9, Fresno,
" 9, Alhambra,
9, San Bernardino,
9, Confidence,
9, Starr King,
9, Olivet,
10, Arroyo,
10, San Miguel,
" 10, Berkeley,
10, Sisson,
10, Plumas,
10, Wilmington,

1907.

{ dues in full to[,
354 31 .July, 1907.

rf 202 7S $ 14S 00

178
6S
62
226
127
Sl
126
366
1S8
186
31S
316
108
91
220
104
334
114
361
264
2S8
lSO
78
289
196
319
19
370
247
322
348
203
344
364
274
28S
363
310
60
198

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

234 20
76 2S
41 80
110 80
186 10

so 70

108 10
197 lS
17 10
3S lS
60 90
88 40
11 40
47 00
Sl SS
80 2S
7S 80
23 00
72 90
163 2S
60 3S
72 40
83 20
48 7S
34 4S
SS8 20
241 3S
196 10
3S3 60
162 00
218 60
22 8S
20S SS
S4 9S
so 6S
S2 90
2S6 SS
86 7S
48 70
38 30

216 00
7S 00
44 00
84 00
178 Ob
4600
98 00
117 00
18 00
37 00
42 00
72 00
. 12 00
40 00
49 00
SS 00
6400
20 00
62 00
llS 00
S3 ()(),_
S2 00

Aug. 10, Bear Mountain,

..
'

76 ()()
4S 00
31 00
396 00
213 00
98 00
288 ()()
100 00
188 00
23 00
169 00
41 00
47 00
42 00
149 00
6S 00
46 00
34 00

.

fdues in full to l

FUND.
General. Home.

76 lJl July, 1907. J$

12, Hollywood,
3SS
12, Vallee de France,
329
12, San Buenaventura, 214
273
12, Anchor,
' 2S3
12, Landmark,
271
12, Snow Mountain,
111
12, Chico,
30S
12, Azusa,
40
12, Sacramento,
103
12, Oroville,
8
12, Tuolumne,
347
12, McKinley,
!'
12, Tuscan,
291
262
12, Lompoc,
12, Huntington Beach, 380
377
12, Artesia,
243
12, Eucalyptus,
2S2
12, Bodie,
298
"· 12, Mokelumne Hill,
229
12, Solano,
3S
" 12, San Diego,
3S8
12, Golden State,
21
13, Hawaiian,
278
13, So. CalifQrnia,
281
" 13, Mt. Shasta,
221
13, Inyo,
174
13, Drytown,
44
13, Mt. Moriah,
30
" 13, Golden Gate,
33S
13, West Gate,
" , 13, Oceanic,
371
26S
13, Orland,
245
13, Laurel,
96
13, Howard,
143
13, Franklin,
16
13, Eureka,
368
14, Unity,
41
14, Martinez,
161
" 14, Keystone,
23
" 14, Madison,

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
d9
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

735

104 OS $

99 00

130 lS
61 70
117 3S
68 10
40 3S
2S 6S
203 60
9S lS
204 so
176 2S
148 7S •
120 so
SS 30
68 SS
36 80
42 4S
118 70
36 10
63 9S
1S3 90
327 60
240 lS
244 7S
688 60
38 lS
48 SS
34 8S
334 so
499 3S
400 90
100 00
61 2S
8S 80
78 25
S9 OS
72 6S
117 30
14S 60
SO OS
140 so

97 00
46 00
93 00
S8 00
33 00
27 00
168 00
77 00
190 00
13S 00
14S 00
90 00
S4 00
69 00
24 00
31 00
86 00
38 00
61 00
142 00
268 00
1S7 00
261 00
628 00
37 00
49 00
23 00
310 ()()
433 00
302 00
116 00
SS 00
84 00
7S 00 '
S9 00
67 00
74 00
108 00
39 00
130 00

736

FUND.
Home.

1907.
Aug; 14, Callayomi,

"

14, Eden,
14, Richmond,
14, Crockett,
14, Eel River,
14, Mosaic,
14, Salinas,
14, Oriental,
14, S!lnta Cruz,

"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

14, Alisal,
14, Guadalupe,
14, Harrp.ony,
14, Ashlar,
14, Abell,
14, Pinole,
14, Alamo,
14, Bakersfield,
14, Hills Ferry,
14, Stanislaus;
14, Truckee,
14, Buena Park,
14, Oriental,
14, Los Banos,
14, Corinthian,
14, Clinton,
14; Loyalton,
14, Keith,
14, Santa Rosa,
14, Kilauea,
14, Woodland,
lS, Fallbrook,
lS, Palestine,
lS, Maxwell,
lS, St. Helena,
lS, Naval,
lS, Rising Star,
lS, Santa Monica,
lS, Madera,
lS, Arcata,
lS, C::arquinez,

1907.

Gen~ral.

·

f dues in full to}
282
. pt July, 1907. $
113
do
do
37S
do
do
139
do
do
147
do
do
218
do
do
204
do
i;io
144 <lisp. to reballot
in full to}
38 {dues
.31 July, 1907.
321
do
do
237 . do
do
164 · do
do
306
do
do
146
do
do
3S3
do
do
122
do
do
224
do
do
236
do
do
206
do
do
200
do
do
3S7
do
do
144
do
do
312
do
do
9
do
do
119
do
do
3S9
do
do
187
do
do
S7
do
do
330 · do
do
1S6
do
do
317
do
do
3St
do
do
288
do
do
93
do
do
87
do
do
83
do
do
307
do
do
280
do
do
106
do
do
337
do
do

3S 30 $

34 00

Aug. lS, Petaluma,

116 10
218 so
397 70
131 SS
100 SS
146 30
10 00

98 00
90 00
326 00
109 00
89 oo·
134 00

203 OS

179 00

42 OS
60 8S
18 30
91 4S
164 10
84 00
62 lS
213 OS
54 SS
81 60
121 4S
so 80
366 8S
36 3S
141 OS
40 2S
so lS
8480
279 9S
i06 25
17S 10
23 7S
213 40
21 8S
86 8S
31S 10
63 lS
104 2S
89 7S
106 8S
90 7S

39 00
43 00
14 00
91 00
118 00
60 00
S7 00
179 00
49 00
68 00
111 00
44 00
343 00
33 ·00
• 119
3S '00
37 00
84 00
261 00
119 00
138 00

lS, North Butte,
lS, South Pasadena,
, 1,5, Charity,
lS, Ath~ns,
" lS, Pasadena,
lS, Corona,
lS, Oceanside,
" lS, Santa Ana,
lS, Clear Lake,
" lS, Hartley,
lS, Fruitvale,
lS, Alcatraz,
lS, Newville,
17, Ontario,
17, Janesville,
19, South Gate,
" 19, Oce;in Park,
19, Red.wood City,
" 19, Temple,
19, Summit,
19, Natoma,
19, Brooklyn,
19, Texas,
19, Mariposa,
19, San Jose,
" 19, Elk Grove,
19, Dunsmuir,
19, Covelo,
19, San Fernando,
" ·19, St. John's,
20, Georgetown,
" 21, Monr-0via,
" 21, Emmanuel,
" 21, W estem Star,
" 22, Volcano,
22, Rose's Bar,
" 22, Veteran,
22, Reading,
" 26, Ophir,.
26, Paso Robles,

.,

'°°

zs oo

1S2 00
23 00
. 83 ()().
2S8 00
S7 00
9S 00
8S 00
103 00
6S ·OO

,

FUND.
General. Home.

I

dues in full to1
180 31 July, 1907.f$
230
367
362
228
272
324
381
241
183
199
336
244
20S
301
232
320
369
168
14
112
64

do
do
do
do
do
do
·do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
225
do
46
do
24
do
10
do
173
do
297
do
231
do
do
343
37
do
2S
do
do
308
318
do
2
do
S6
do
89
do
373
do
2S4
do
33 · do
do
286

737

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
dq
do
do
do·
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do

216 70 $

206 00

74 8S
77 3S
48 00
70 lS
383 60
312 70
29 9S
, 2SO 7S
30 so
106 so
1S8 3S
400 00
41 85
110 3S
S3 00
674 00
114 60
98 20
68 10
42 30
68 7S
271 OS
33 40
65 4S
336 30
63 90
109 30
48 60
S8 so
107 10
Si 70
81 3S
S3 70
129 2S
38 30
70 lS
76 40
149 00
66 00
84 60

63 00
S3 00
40 00
S7 00
328 00
246.00
21 00
22S 00
30 00
90 00
. 113 00
320 00
43 00
93 00
40 00
440 00

68 00
96 00
58.00
34 00
6S.OO
219 00
. 32 00
.s1·00
294 00
62 00
94 00
48 00
so 00
98 00
46 00
73 00
46 00
llS 00
34 00
37.00
72 00
120 00
60 00
68 00

]

738

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
FUND.

1907.

Aug. 26, Lodi,
"
"

26, Magnolia,
26, Gravel Range,

"

26, Selma,
28, Nicolaus,
29, Ferndale,
30, Brentwood,
"
30, Long Beach,
30, Santa Maria,
30, Francis Drake,
31, Vitruvius,
Sept. 3, Lassen,
3, Sequoia,
3, Adin,
5, Northern Light,
10, Fullerton,
10, Forest,
11, North East,
12, Claiborne,
12, Buckeye,
12, Antioch,
16, Needles,
16, Jewel,

"

16, Traver,

"

16, Durant,
21, Corregidor,
21, Tyrian,

"

23, Manila,
26, Curtis,
30, Palos Verdes,

Oct.

"
"

1, Dinuba,
1, Highland Park,
1, Coalinga,
4, El Centro,
4, Orosi,
4, Parnassus,

fdues in full to ls;
256

l31 July, 1907.f

do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
do
340
do
do
376
do
do
145
do
do
149
do
do
349
do
do
250
do
do
190
do
do
339
do
do
66
do
do
266
do
do
185
do
do
19.5
do
do
175
do
do
326
do
do
374 <lisp. to reballot
dues in full to
294
July, 1907.J
do
do
268
U.D.
do
do
284
do
do
342
do
do
140
do
do
U.D.
do
do
U.D.
do
do
U.D.
do
do
U.D.
do
do
U.D.
do
do
U.D.
do
do
U.D.
do
do
242
59
277
129
193
345
327

f

lJl

1

General.
134 55 $

88 30
22 95
103 35
86 35
108 35
49 70
299 35
83 75
44 55

58 40
99 50
353 50
31 45
8420
109 20
34 35
36 25

44 85
85 15
115 95
83 70
20 00

Home.

74 00
21 00
93 00
73 00
93 00
46 00
233 00
65 00
29 00
52 00
90 00
210 00
31 00
56 00
96 00
33 00
35 00
43 00

449 05

359 00
25 00
32 00
235 00
56 00
21 00
30 00
69 00
30 00
37 00
25 00
00

49 50
82 15
42 75
154 50

so

Total amounts received to October 4, 1907 .... $43,408 70 $36,126 00
Making an aggregate sum of ........................... $79,534 70

WILLIAM MASON RUNDELL, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1 . ... .....•.... Died June 25, 1907
CHARLES D. WILSON, P. M.
California Lodge, No. 1 .. .......... :.Died Ju~e 10,_1907
EUGENE MULLER, P. M.
Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8 . .. .... ... . Died November 8, 1906
JOHN FRANCIS R<>ONEY, P. M.
'.L'uolumne Lodge, No. 8 . . .. . ...... Died February 4, 1907
BARNARD ROSS BOORMAN, P. M.
Corinthian Lodge, No. 9 .'.. : .......... Died June 12, 1907

•

66 00
33 00

168 55

-

77 ()()
81 ob

32 35
39 75
37 40
267 25
61 20
25 95
64 50

3Ju tlrmnrtnm.

109 00

NORMAN DUNNING RIDEOUT, P. M.
Corinthian Lodge, No. 9 .......... . .... Died July 2, 1907
ALONZO BOBBITT HAMILTON, P. M.
San Jose Lodge, No. 10 . . ...... ·:Died November 23, 1906
HENRY OLP WELLER, P. M.
San Jose Lodge, No. 10 .. ......... ' .. Died April 28, 1907
NILES SEARLS, P. M .
Nevada Lodge, No. 13 ............... Died April 27, 1907
JOSEPH HARVEY POTTER, P. M.
Temple Lodge, No. 14 .........• . .... Died March 14, 1907

...

WILLIS CATLET GOODMAN, P. M.
Temple Lodge, No. 14 ... .. ............. Died May 4, 1907
ADEN DENMIRE, P. M.
Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18 .. ·:.Died January 13, 1907

739

.l

740

MOURNING

p AGES OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

3Ju iltmnriam.

3Ju :!Wltmnriam.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS . RUGGLES, P. M.
San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19 ....... Died September 11, 1906

RUFUS WADLEIGH THOMPSON, P. M._
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30 .......... Died March 30, 1907

FRANK TAYLOR JOHNSON, P. M.
Washington Lodge, No. 20 .......... : .Died May 11, 1907

ELI TUCKER BLACKMER, P. M.
San Diego Lodge, No._35 .............. Died July 16, 1907

ANDREW BROWN, P. M.
Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21. ......... Died February 19, 1907

GEORGE KEATING PORTER, P. M.
Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38 ........ Died November 6, 1906

BRILSFORD PEASE FLINT, P. M.
Occidental Lodge, No. 22 ........ Died November 12, 1906

CHARLES MILTON;; PATTERSON.
.
Yuba Lodge, No. 39 .............. Died February 25, 1907

BYRON GILLETTE MANTLE, P. M.
Occidental Lodge, No .. 22 .......... Died January 7, 1907
, JOHN BISHOP, P. M.
G'eorgetown Lodge, No. 25 ........ Died Noyember 10, l,906

SAMUEL LAWSON POWELL, P. M.
Sacramento Lodge, No. 40 ........ Died December 30, 1906

•

COLUMBUS SOULE HERSEY, P. M.
G'eorgetown Lodge, No. 25 ............ Died May 23, 1907

JOHN GOLDSWORTHY, P. M.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 ....... Died November 10, 1906

JOHN COLBY RICH, P. M.
Georgetown Lodge, No. 25 ............. Died July 19, 1907

ABRAHAM WOLF EDELMAN, P. M.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 ............ Died July 24, 1907

SETH LOVELESS, P. M.
Palmyra Lodge, No. 26 ............ Died October 25, 1906

DAVID MATHEWS RICHARDS, P. M.
Mt. Moriah Lodge, No. 44 ... ·..... Died September 5, 1906

JOHN DODD SKINNER, P. M.
Palmyra Lodge, No. 26 ........... Died November 13, 1906
WILLIAM NAPP MUFFEY, P. M.
Palmyra Lodge, No. 26 ............. Died March 29, 1907
THOMAS ROBB HENSHELWOOD, P. M.
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30 ........ Died December 8, 1906

SAMUEL PRAGER, P. M . .
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42 ............. Died June 6, 1907

..

JOSEPH LIPPMAN, P. M.
Mt. Moriah LoP,ge, No. 44 ............. Died July 17, 1907
WILLIAM BENJAMIN GRIGGS, P. M.
Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57 ........ Died December 25, 1906
EDWARD NEBLETT, P. M.
Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57 .......... Died January 19, 1907

741

742

MOURNING

llu ilrmnrinm.

llu ilrmnriam.

FRANK · WILLIAM BECKMAN, P. M.
Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131. .......... Died May 23, 1907

JOHN WILLIAM ROCK, P. M.
Union Lodge, No. 58 .... . ........ . .... Died April 9, 1907

JAMES ELISHA PERRY, P. M.
Sincerity Lodge, No. 132 ......... Died November 17, 1906

GEORGE WASHINGTON CARPENTER, P. M.
Enterprise Lodge, No. 70 ..... . .... Died December 6, 1906

HENRY CLASSEN, P. M.
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 . . ......... Died November 24, 1906

Wll.LIAM HENRY GRENELL, P. M.
Rising Star Lodge, No. 83 ........... Died March 24, 1907

ALEXANDER THOM, P. M~
Pacific Lodge, No. 136 ....... .. . . . Died December 3, 1906

PETER DINGLE GRIMES, P. M.
Naval Lodge, No. 87 .....•...... Died November 14, 1906
DANIEL REAM, P. M.
North Star Lodge, No. 91. ....... Died September 1, 1906
HUDSON B. GILLIS, P. M.
Howard Lodge, No. 96 ................ Died May 30, 1907
JOHN GUIDERY, P. M.
Oroville Lodge, No. 103 . . .......... Died August 25, 1906
MOSES CHANDLER WHEELER, P. M.
Mount Zion Lodge, No. 114 ....... Died February 17, 1907
ALBERT DE MONTFREDY JOHNSON, P. M.
Concord Lodge, No. 117 •..•........... Died June 13, 1907
LESTER LEWELLEN MYERS, P. M.
Table Mountain Lodge, No. 124 ...... Died January, 1907
JOHN NEWTON WOODS, P. M.
Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131. : . .... Died December 3, 1906
JAMES LAWRENCE HUTSON, P. M.
Woodbridge Lodge, No. 131. .......... Died May 17, 1907

743

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

p AGES OF THE

HEBER NUTTER Tll.DEN, P. M.
Crockett Lodge, No. 139 ............ Died August 15, 1906

..

EDWARD CHARLES LUNDQUIST, P. M.
Oriental Lodge, No. 144 .......... Died December 16, 1906
JOHN McMURRY, P. M.
Abell Lodge, No. 146 .... .... ..... Died December 16, 1906
ALVAH PETERSON, P. M.
Molino Lodge, No. 150 .......... . Died December 10 1906

.

'

WILLIAM YORK BROWNING, P. M.
Woodland Lodge, No. 156 .......... Died January 18, 1907
AUGUST HOLTZ, P. M.
Gibsonville Lodge, No. 158 .. .. ..... .. Died April 21, 1907
CALEB SCOTT HALEY, P. M.
Alameda Lodge, No. 167 .•......... Died February 7, 1907
HORACE COWEN ROLFE, P. M.
Phoenix Lodge, No. 178 ............. Died October 3, 1906

. MOURNING

p AGES OF TH~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

I

3Jn ilrmnrtum.

3Jn ilrmnrtum.

-· - MARCUS DYATHEKA GOSHEN, P. M.
Petaluma Lodge, No. 180 ............. Died March 12, 1907,

PARLEY CHAPMAN MITCHELL, P. M.
Downey Lodge, No. 220 .............. Died March 1, 1907

OSCAR FRANKLIN TROOP, P. M.
Petaluma Lodge, No. 18(} ........... Died October 13, 1906

PATRICK HENRY MACK, P. M.
Inyo Lodge, No. 221. ........... : ... Died March 14, 1907

THEODORE TEMPLE PARK, P. M.
Petaluma Lodge, No. 180 ............ Died March 24, 1907

ABRAM ANDREW NORDYKE, P. M.
Laurel Lodge, No. 245 .............•... Died May 5, 1907

THOMAS CARROLL KING, P. M.
M:e~idian Lodge, No. 182 ...... . ...... Died April 26, 1907
JAMES FLETCHER WINSELL, P. M.
Northern Light Lodge, No. 190 .... Died December 8, 1906
BENJAMIN WENDELL STUDLEY, P. M.
Marin Lodge, No. 191. ........•.. Died November 11, 1906
PHIL SHERIDAN THOMPSON, P. M.
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 .......... Died October 13, 1906
SIMON STOLL, P. M . .
Pentalpha Lodge, No. 202 ........ Died November 23, 1906
LEMUEL JOB CHIPMAN, P. M.
Friendship Lodge, No. 210 . . ......... Died March 15, 1907
MORRIS BERNHARD LEVY, P. M.
.
Doric Lodge, No. 216 ............... Died Augnst 11, 1906
THOMAS GRAFTON LAMBERT, P. M.
Monterey Lodge, No. 217 ....· ....... Died Augnst 18, 1906

GEORGE SAMUEL HOLDEN, P. M.
Fresno Lodge, No. 247 ........... Died November 11, 1906
JAMES TODD LAmD, P. M.
Alturas Lodge, No. 248 ............... Died May 10, 1907
JOHN ALLEN HOSMER, P. M.
King Solomon Lodge, No. 260 ......... Died May 17 1907
ROBERT TRAVERS, P. M.
Hesperian Lodge, No. 264 ............. Died July 27 7 1907
ROBERT HARE DELAFIELD, P. M.
Durant Lodge, No. 268 ........... Died November 20, 1906
JOHN ALBERT GOBLE, P. M.
Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269 .......... Died April 28, 1907
HENRY RYERSON SMITH, P. M.
Southern California Lodge, No. 278.Died January 23, 1907

-·-JOSEPH HARDY TAYLOR, P. · M.
Mosaic Lo1\ge, No. 218 ........... Died February 16, 1907

JOHN CHAPMAN .VOLUNTINE, P. M.
Callayomi Lodge, No. 282 ........... Died March 16, 1907

14

745

746

MOURNING

p AGES OF THE.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

747

AMENDMENTS

lJu flrmnrinm.

TO TH!l

JAMES FRANKLIN DAVIS, P. M.
Fullerton Lodge, No. 339 .......•. Died November 24, 1906

Constitution and General Regulations
Adopted Oct. A. L. 5907.

JOHN SAMUEL .JOHNSON, P. M.
Oxnard Lodg·~, No. 341.·.•......•...• Died March 25, 1907

That Section.. 11, of Article III, Part III, of the Constitution be
and is hereby amended to read as follows :

ADOLPH COHN, P. M.
Starr King Lodge, No. 344 ........ Died December 8, 1906

f

Sec. 11. No Lodge shall expel a member for the non-payment of
dues ; but, in case any member shall have refused or neglected to pay
his regular dues during a period of twelve months he shall be notified
by the Secretary, either by registered letter or by actual service of
notice, duly certified by the Tyler, that unless at the next stated
meeting either his dues be paid or sickness or inability to pay be shown
as the cause of such· refusal or neglect, he will be suspended from all
the rights and privileges of Masonry. If neither of these things be
.done, he shall at such stated meeting be declared by the Master to be
suspended, unless for special reasons shown the Lodge shall remit his
dues or grant him further time for their payment: But any Mason
thus suspended who shall at any time pay the arrearages due at the
time of his suspension, together with such further dues as would, had
he retained his membership, have accrued against him to the date of
such payment, or who shall have had such arrearages and dues remitted
by his Lodge, shall by either of these acts be restored; Provided, that
-should any member suspended for non-payment of dues neglect for the
-period of two years to pay dues or have the same remitted by his
Lodge, said member shall not be restored except by a three-fourths
vote by ballot of all the members present at the next stated meeting
.after the petition for restoration is presented.
Any Secretary failing or neglecting to comply with the requirements
of this section relative to notifying delinquents shall be subject to
·discipline by his Lodge for neglect of duty.
The term "Past Master," as defined in Article II of Part VII of
the Constitution, is hereby amended and modified to read as follows :
This title applies only to one who has been regularly elected or
named in a charter and installed and has served a term as Master of
a chartered Lodge within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge and

748

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

749

who remains a member in good standing of one of its subordinates;
provided, that one who has been regularly elected or named in a charter and installed and has served a term as Master of a chartered Lodge
within the jurisdiction of any other Grand Lodge recognized by this
Grand Lodge, and who has affiliated with or become a member of a
subordinate Lodge within this jurisdiction and who remains a member
in good standing of one of its subordinates may take the honorary title
of "Past Master," but shall not thereby become a member of this Grand
Lodge.

EXPULSIONS AND SUSPENSIONS
GENERAL REGULATION No. 2, REPEALED.
EXPULSIONS BY LODGES AFFIRMED:

That General Regulation No. 21 is hereby repealed, and that the
following be and is hereby adopted in place of it:
Regulation 21. All Lodges in this Jurisdiction are authorized to
employ, in the conduct of Masonic trials, a duly accredited stenographic
reporter; Provided, That said stenographic reporter is a Master Mason
and that, before entering upon his duty he shall be qualified in the manner provided for the qualification of Masonic witnesses; and provided
further, that said stenographic reporter shall attest the transcript of 'the
evidence of the respective witnesses examined in the course of the trial
prior to signature by the said witnesses; and, provided further, that the
employment of a stenographic reporter in any such trials shall be
optional with the Master presiding at said trial.

r

George T. Greenleaf. ... . by Redlands Lodge,
Barton Williard Johnson.by Truckee Lodge,
John W. Roland ......... by Salinas Lodge,
Robert Andrew Lindsay.. by Palestine Lodge,
Normand Alex. Bailie . . . by Phoenix Lodge,
Robert Emil Goeritz ..... by Chico Lodge,
George Michael Dwyer ... by Fresno Lodge,
Herschel V. J. Swain .... by Berkeley Lodge,
Harry Joseph Lask .... . . by California Lodge,
Howard M. Stearns .... . by Benicia Lodge,

No. 300 .. Aug. 4, 1907.
No. 200 .. Sept. 12, 1906.
No.204 .. Apr. 19, 1907.
No. 341. .Apr. 2, 1907.
No. 178 .. June 3, 1907.
No. lll .. Feb. 23, 1907.
No.247 .. Feb. 22, 1907.
No. 363 .. Nov. 3, 1906.
No. 1. .May 2, 1907.
No. 5 .. June 5, 1907.

SUSPENSIONS BY LODGES AFFIRMED:.
John Marshal Atkinson .. by W elcot11e Lodge,
Andrew Bullium Olsen ... by Hartley Lodge,
Richard William Drum .. by Santa Cruz Lodge,
Stimulous M. Loveland .. by Mendocino Lodge,

No. 255 .. Nov. 24, 1906.
No. 199 .. July 20, 1907.
No. 38 .. Aug. 19, 1907.
No. 179 .. Mar. 23, 1907.

6
7

:t

8

·······
......

..........
. .............

.........

"

"

"

50

2

145

6

6
119
50 ......
" "
"
294
9
50 ......
" "
"
...... ...... ...............
"6, 1851,
"
"
130
.............. May
6
30 ......

Corinthian
9 Marysville
Yuba
San Jose ....•.•• 10 San Jose ...•....... Santa Clara •.......
Willamette . . . . . . 11 Portland . • ...•..... Oregon Ter ..••.....
Yount ••........• 12 Napa ..........•.. . Napa

Note-Those Lodges In the present list marked thus • have surrendered their charters-those marked thus t have
had their charters revoked-those marked thus i are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Oregon-those
marked thus § are now under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Nevada-those marked thus II are now under the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Arizona-and those marked thus ~ have consolidated as follows: Marysville, No. 9,
and Corinthian, No. 69, under the designation of Corinthian, No. 9; Saint John's, No. 37, and Siskiyou, No. 105, under
the designation of Saint John's, No. 37; Tuolumne, No. 8, Mount Jefferson, No. 107, and Columbia, No. 28, under the
designation of Tuolumne, No. 8 ; Colusa, No. 142, and Equality, No. 240. under the designation of Colusa, No. 240;
Saint Louis, No. 86, and Gibsonville, No. 158, under the designation of Gibsonville, No. 158; Mokelumne, No. 31, and
Calaveras, No. 78, under the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Natoma, No. 64, and Latrobe, No. 189, under the designatlon of Natoma, No. 64; Nebraska, No. 71, and Ione, No. 80, under the designation of Ione, No. 80; Sincer ity, No. 132,
and Greenville, No. 249, under the designation of Sincerity, No. 132 ; Calaveras, No. 78, and Campo Seco, No. 100, under
the designation of Calaveras, No. 78; Georgetown, No. 25, and Pilot Hill, No. 160, under the designation of Georgetown,
No. 25; and Petaluma, No. 77, and Arcturus, No. 180, under the designation of Petaluma, No. 180; Hueneme, No. 311,
and Oxnard, No. 341, under the designation of Oxnard, No. 341, and Palmyra, No. 151, and Eldorado, No. 26, under the
designation of Palmyra, No. 26.
·
.
· .
George Johnson, Gram~ Secretary.

May
9 Nevada . . . . . . . . . 13 Nevada City ..•.... Nevada ............
"
10 'Temple •......... 14 Sonoma .. • •........ Sonoma ...........•
T er •...... • •
"
:t La Fayette . . . . . • 15 La Fayette .. : ....• Oregon
Nov.
Placer
Auburn
11 Eureka • .'.. • . . . . • 16
May
San
Francisco
.....•
San
Francisco
..•..
.
12 Parfaite Union ... 17
Sierra
"
13 Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville
"
14 San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton • .......... San Joaquin ........
Sacramento
"
15 Washington ...... 20 Sacramento
Hawaiian
Ter
......
•
"
16 Hawaiian . . . . . . . 21 Honolulu, H. T ...•..
San
Francisco
......
"
17 Occidental ....... 22 San Francisco ......•
Nevada
•...........
"
18 Madison .. . ...... 23 Grass Valley .......
Mariposa
...........
"
19 Mariposa . . . . . . . . 24 Mariposa ..........•
El
Dorado
.
.
........
"
20 Georgetown . . . . . 25 Georgetown ........
El
Dorado
....
.
....
.
"
21 Palmyra ......... 26 Placerville .........
"
22 Trinity .......... 27 Weaverville .......• Trinity • . ....... . ..
Tuolumne
,...
......
.•
Columbia . . . . . . . . 28 Columbia ......... .
"
Diamond Springs . . . El Dorado ....... . ..
"
* Diamond ........ 29 San
San
Francisco
.
..
..
.
Francisco ......
"
23 Golden Gate . . . • . 30
"
Mokelumne ... ... 31 Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras ....... ...
Placer
.
.
..........
•
"
24 Gold Hill . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln
Calaveras
•........•
"
25 Ophir • . . . . . . . . . . 33 Murphy's
Santa
Clara
....
.
...
"
t Santa Clara . . .. . • 34 Santa Clara ........ San Diego ....... • .
"
26 San Diego . . . . . . . 35 San Diego .. . .. .. . .
May
• . .......... Butte .. . ...... . . . ..
* Butte .... . ...... 36 Bidwell
"
27 St. John's ....... 37 Yreka ...•.........• Siskiyou
"
28 Santa Cruz . . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz . ......• ,. Santa Cruz •.•.....•
Yuba .. . ...........
"
29 Yuba . . . . . . . . . . • 39 Marysville
"
30 Sacramento . . . . . . 40 Sacramento ....... . Sacramento · • . • • • .. •
"
31 Martinez ...•.... 41 Martinez ....... . ... Contra Costa ......•
"
32 Los Angeles . . • . . 42 Los Angeles ......•• Los Angeles ...... . •
"
33 Hiram ...•.....• 43 El Dorado .....•.... El Dorado ....... . ..
"
34 Mount Moriah ... 44 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...• . •
Del Norte ........ ,
"
35 Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City • . . ..•.
"
36 Texas •..••...•.• 46 San Juan ...•.•..... San B enito ....•...

...........
········
........

,
,

. ............
·············
········

... .........
··········

......... ..

·········

~

§

&J
00
0
l"'.J
.._,
r::i

~
l:tj

--~·

~

""

t-,3
l:tj

6,

1851.

"9,

50 .......

147

12
58
30 11"
...-... ...... ......
"
67
7,
6
50 ······
"
132
75
12
5, 1852.
38
30 ······
6
" "
213
6
50 ......
"
"
107
75 1
6
"
"
261
5C
5 12
"20, "
l()(j
537
9
······
"
·130
8
53 ......
5, 1853.
5(J
51
5
6
'" "
46
33 ......
6
"6, "
3C
5 6 165
"
62
3C ······ 12
"5, "
...... ·········
"
······
······
.. ....
" "
433.
75 1
12
" "
......
......
" "
6
53
1
50
" "
5.(,
·60
6
4
" "
......
.. -~ ..
"7, "
268
8
75
"
3, 1854.
98
1
30
" "
179
50
1
" "
81
50 ······
" "
190
75 10
" "
108
30 ······
6
"5, "
304
6
50 ······
"
21
3,
30
6

"
" "
"4, "
"

•• • •.ot••••

······

75 10
35 ······
1
30

9
6
6

310
6ll
32

~
>
zt:::i
t"-i

§
&l
0

l'zj

a
E:;
~

0

!;O

z

H

?'-

-:i
01
1--'

40
41
42
43
44
45
46

*
47
48
49

*

50

1

51
11'

Volcano· . . . . . . . . . 56 Volcano . . ..... . .... Amador ........... .
Santa Rosa ..... . 57 Santa Rosa ..... . ... Sonoma •... .. .... ..
Union ......••... 58 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ....... .
Gravel Range ... 59 Camptonville ......• Yuba .............•
Plumas . . . • . . . . . • 60 Quincy ............ Plumas ...........•
Live Oak .... . ..... 61 Oakland .... . ....... Alameda ..........•
Geo. Washington .. 62 Chinese Camp ...... Tuolumne .........•
Iowa Hill . . . . . . . 63 Iowa Rill .......... Placer ............ .
Natoma ........• 64 Folsom .......... . .. Sacramento ....... .
Amador ......... 65 Jackson ... • ...... .. Amador ... . ....... .
Forest . . . . . . . . . • 66 Alleghany .........• Sierra ..... . ......•
Minnesota . . . . . . . 67 Minnesota ......... Sierra ..... .. .....•
Morning Star .. . . ; 68 Stockton ........... Stockton ....... .. . .
Corinthian ...... 69 Marysville .....•... Yuba .............•
Enterprise ....... 70 Yuba City . . . • .. . . . utter ............ .
Nebraska •....... 71 Michigan Bar ...... Sacramento .......•

.._

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"

"
"3,
"2,
"

"
"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

...

* E. K. Kane .. : ... 72 Nevada ............ Nevada ........... .
* · Tyro ............ 73 Drytown ........... Amador ...........•
* Wisconsin' Hill ... 74 Wisconsin Hill ..... Placer ...........••
* Mountain Forest .. 75 Eureka North ..... ~ Sierra •............
52 . Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp .... . . Calaveras ... . ..... .
1 Petaluma ........ . 77 Petaluma .......... Sonoma ........ . ..•
53 Calaveras ........ 78 San Andreas ....... Calaveras ......... .
54 Humboldt • . . . . . . 79 Eureka ............ Humboldt .........•
55 Ione . . . . . . . . . . . • 80 Ione ............... Amador .... .. .... .
56 Yolo ............ 81 Yolo ............... Yolo ....•..........
* Mountain . . . . . . . 82 Don Pedro's Bar .... Tuolumne ••........
57 Rising Star. . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill ......... Placer ............ .
58 Vesper .......... 84 Red Bluff , ......... Tehama ........... .
t Saint itiark 's ..... 85 riymouth .......... Amador ........... .
1 Saint Louis ...... 86 Howland Flat ...... Sierra ..... ....... ..
59 Naval ... . ....... 87 Vallejo ............. Solano ............ .
60 Quitman •........ 88 North Bloomfield .. . . Nevada •........ . ..
61 Rose's Bar ....... 89Smartsville ....... ... Yuba ............ ..
* Polar Star.-. . . . . . 90 Poorman 's Creek .... Plumas ........... .
62 North Star ...... 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou .... .. ... ..
63 Acacia . . . . .. . .. . 92 Coloma ............ EI Dorado ......... .
64 St. Helena ....... 93 St. Helena ......... Napa .......... .. .. .
* Mount Hermon ... 94 Elizabethtown ...... Plumas ........... .
65 Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador ........... .
66 Howard . . . . . . . . . 96 Yreka .......... . .. Siskiyou ............
67 Jefferson ...... . .. 97 La Porte ........... Plumas ........... .
68 Hornitos ...... . .• 98 Hornitos ............ Mariposa ..........•
69 La Grange . . . . . . 99 Merced .. , .. ; • . . . . . Merced ... . . .. ....•
1 Campo Seco .... .. 100 Campo Seco ........ Calaveras . . .. . .... .
70 Clay .......... . . 101 Dutch Flat . . .• ~ ••.. Placer •....... .. ..•
71 Manzanita ....... 102 North San Juan ...•. Nevada ...........•
72 Oroville .......... 103 Oroville .. . ......... Butte ............. .
73 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte ••........ Los Angeles ....... ·
~
Siskiyou ...•..... 105 1 enley •......•..... Siskiyou •.........

50
5
50
1
75 10
30 ..... .
50 .. ....

16
6
6
8
6

34
261
195
21
46

100

6

638

25

6

50 .. ....

Ga
~
0
t:l

Cl
tzj

rn

44

······ ...... ...... ·········
50
1
50 ..... .
50......

6

9
6

65
75
33

······
······ ······6 ·········
50 .. ....
179
······ ...... ...... ·········
50

.5

4

~
t-3

· l:tj
l:;j

153

······ ············· ········

..,._

1855.

May

2,

"
"

" "
"3, "

"
"
"

"
"
July
May

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"

2,

"
"4,

"
"
"

"
"
1,
"
8, 1856.

"
"
"9,
8,

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
..."

.."" "

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
15,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

::::::::::::1::::::1:::::::::
5f1

;1

6

99

5(1
•
5(1 . .. ••
3( 1 ... .. ;
3(• ... .. .

8
6
6
6

300

r

6
6

134

6

258

30

.1

31•

5

50
54'

fl
I\

3ll

f1

6
12

i6
50
35
57

27
37

~
zt:l

>

~

g
&3
0

~

"t:.. .~ ""~j""""~ 5
c

40

Sfi
8111
(i(1

..... .........

01

6

6

.;

JC'!......
111

3

6
'
lO

6
6

68
75
37

34

6

99

3
6
6

55
31
135

,,._t ....~ .....~ ......~

~

F
-:i
01
~

'1f

Saint Marks •.... 115 Fiddletown ......... Amador ........... .

* Windsor ••....... 116 Windsor ........... Sierra ............ .
81

Concord ......... 117 Sacramento .. .. .... Sacramento ....... .

* Vallecito ........ 118 Vallecito ........... Calaveras ......... .

82 Clinton •.•...... 119 Igo .•.............. Shasta ............ .
83 Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco ...... San Francisco 1 •••••
* Ionic ............ 121 Iowa Hill .... .. .... Placer ............ .
84 Alamo ........... 12~ Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ...... .
85 Soto yo me ........ 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma ........... .
86 Table Mountain ... 124 Cherokee . . ......... Butte ............. .
t Progress ......... 125 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco ..... .
87 La Fayette ....... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma ... •........
88 Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
89 Visalia .......... 128 Visalia ............. Tulare ............ .
90 Nicolaus . ·........ 129 Wheatland .... . .... Yuba ............. .
* Unity ........•.. 130 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino .... .

"

"
"
May
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

May

"...

"

~

"
... ii) ... i'o .....61...... 97
"
1858. ..... : ...... ······ ........ .
30 ......
6
35
"
100 10 12
450
"
...........................
"
30 ......
6
57
"
3056143
"
50 .... ..
6
55
"
......... ······ ........ .
"
40 ..... .
5
98
"
75 10 12
178
"
1859.
50
8
6
133
30 · 1
4
73
"
"

" "
15,
13,

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
14,
13,

"

...

~
0
ti

~
0

t:rj

"'3
~
trj

~

6
83
30 ......
13, 1859.
May
6
37
30
5
Woodbridge ...... 131 \Woodbridge ...•.... San Joaquin
"
"
"
9
21
30 .... ..
Sincerity •....... 132 Taylorsville ........ Plumas ........... .
"
"
"
6
119
30 .... ..
Yosemite ........ 133 Coulterville ....... . Mariposa .. .•.. ....•
"
"
"
6
47
Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville .......... Solano . . .......... . May
30 .... ..
11, 1860.
9
510
75
5
Valley ........... 135Linden •............ San Joaquin ...... .
10,
"
"
.................... ,........ .
Pacllic ........... 136 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco ..... .
"
"
"
* Oro Fino ......... 137 Oro Fino ........... Siskiyou .......... .
............. ,............... .
"
"
"
• Violet ........•.. 138 Spanish Flat . . ..... El Dorado ......... .
75\
101
326
"
"
"
6
56
30 .....
. 121
97 Crockett ......... 139 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ....••
>
" "
"
30
5
6
27
98 Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale ......... Sonoma .... .. ....•• ·'
"
"
"
99 Grafton .. .. ..... • 141 Grafton ........... : Yolo ............. ..
·············•················ ti
"
"16, 1861.
"
, Colusa ............ 142 Colusa ............. Colusa ...........•. May
~
5
59
75 0
10 l1i 343
100 Franklin ......... 143 Courtland •......... Sacramento ....... .
"
"
30
1
.
52
"
101 Oriental ......... 144 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
·o
"
"
"
30 ......
118
t;j
102 Vitruvius ........ 145Bloomfteld .......... Sonoma ...•...... • .
"
"
"
50
109
103 Abell ............ 146Ukiah ........... ". .. Mendocino ... : ...•.
17,
"
"
104 Eel River ........ 147Rohnerville ......... Humboldt ........ . .
~
16,
"
"
* San Luis Obispo .. 148 San Luis Obispo ... .. San Luis Obispo ..•. May
15, 1862.
0
105 Lasse'n ........... 149 Susanville .......... Lassen ...........•.
"
"
"
106 Molino ........... 150 Tehama ............ Tehama ....... . ...•
16,
"
"
'1l Palmyra .....•... 151 Placerville ......... El Dorado .........•
15,
"
"
* Josephus ......... 152 B.rnsh Creek ........ Butte ............••
" "
"
* Rising Sun .....•. 153 Brandy City ........ Sierra ...........•.
" "
"
§ Carson ........... 154 Car~on City ........ Nevada Ter....... .
May 14, 1863.
138
* ¥ount Carmel .... 155 Red Dog ..... . ..... Nevada ........... .
1
3
?'"
" "
"
107 Woodland ........ 156 Woodland ......... . Yolo .............••
"
"
"
"al'·
....
§ Washoe .......... 157Washoe City ....... Nevada Ter ...... .. .
" "
"
108 Gibsonville ...... 158 Gibsonville ......... Sierra ...........•.
. .. . , , 1•••• •• l••• •••I ••• •• ••••
" "
"
* Gilroy ........... 159 Gilroy .. .... ...... . Santa Clara ....... .
•••• • •L•••••••• •• • ••I • ••••••••
"
"
"
39
'1l Pilot Hill ........ 160 Pilot Hill .......... . El Dorado •......•••
3
301 12
"
"
"
109 Keystone ........ 161 Milton ............. Calaveras . . ...... ..
•• ••• • ' ' ' ' ' ' ' l ••••••l • ••••I•• •
"
"
"
§ Virginia City ..... 162 Virginia City ....... Nevada Ter.......••
01
1· '"'6\"'''.i'4
" 15,
Q1
§ Si.Iver City ....... 163 Silver City ......... Nevada Ter.......••
13, 1864.
Oct.
110 Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City .....•... Sierra , • , •• , • , •..•
91
92
93
94
95
96

w
z

g

~
~

···501::::: r

i's

_,

"

1···301::::::

117

Antioch .......... 175 Antioch · ............ Contra Costa . : .. .. .

* Merced ..... . .... 176 Snelling .•.......... Merced •...........
II Aztlan ........... 177 Prescott ...••.•.... Arizona Ter ....... ..

'

118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128

Phoenix ..... . ... 178 San. Bernardino ..... San Bernardino ... ..
Mendocino •...... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino .......•.
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma •... : .•..• Sonoma ........••.•
Russian River ..•. 181 Windsor •......•.•. Sonoma ..........•.
Meridian ......... 182 College City .......• Colusa ............ .
Clear Lake ... • ... 183 Lower Lake ...••. . • Lake ...•..•.......
Sierra Valley ..... 184 Sierraville ...•..... Sierra ........... ..
Claiborne .... . ... 185 Point Arena . : ...... Mendocino ........•
Evening Star .... 186 Etna Mills ......... Siskiyou .......... .
Keith ............ 187 Gilroy •........•... Santa Clara ....... .
Oakland ........• 188 Oakland ......•.•.• Alameda .......... .
'If Latrobe .......... 189 Latrobe .... '. ...... El Dorado ........••

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"

"
"
"11, 1866.
" "
"
"
" "
" "
10, 1867.
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1868.
" "
" "

12,

12

81

............ ...............
50 .... ..
6
216
6
122
30 ......
4016206
30
1
6
71
30 .. .. ..
6 ' 44
30 ......
6
30
30
2
6
37
50 .. .. .. 12
43
45 ......
6
37
30
1
9
84
50
1 12
427

·············

"

··········

"
"

"
"

.,

"

"

•

~
8

~

"

···········
········· ..
······ ·····
·········

···········

~

•

56
35 ......
6
15, 1868.
. . . • . . . . . . . Shasta ...•.......•• Oct.
150.
50 ... .. . 12
Northern Light.... 190 Millville
"
"
"
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael ......... Marin
Santa Barbara ....•
"14, 1869. 50 ······ 69 109
"
93
Santa Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara ..... Humboldt .....•...• Oct.
40 ·· ····
60
5
6
30
Ferndale ......... 193 Ferndale
Santa
Clara
.......•
"
"
"
77
1
6
30
Mountain View ... 194 Mountain View •.... Yolo ...•..... • ....•
"
"
"
31
30 ......
a
Buckeye .....•... 195 Winters
San
Luis
Obispo
...•
"
"
"
...... ······ ...... ·········
San Simeon .... . .. 196 Cambria
Alameda ..........•
" "
"
34
Haywards
6
Paradise
.........
197
30 ······
Los
Angeles
•......•
* Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington •..•....
"
90
6
30
.....
.
136
" "
"
111
Lakeport . .. ... . ... Lake ............••
6
5
Hartley
.....
.
....
199
60
137
"
"
57
Truckee ............ Nevada ...........•
60 .. .. .. · 9
138 Truckee .......... 200 Dixon ............. Solano •........ . ..•
" "
"
525
6
20
75
Silveyville
.......
201
139
" "
"
Los Angeles .. . . . •.. Los Angeles ........
23
3 6
36
140 Pentalpha ........ 202 Castroville ......... Monterey .........•
"
" "
134
6
•......
203
Confidence
40
······
141
" "
"
43
Salinas ............ Monterey .........•
1
35
14, 1870.
142 Salinas ........•. 204 Newville ........ . .. Glenn · .............. Oct.
68
5
Newville
.........
205
143
Stanislaus
"
" "
59
Modesto
Stanislaus
........
206
144
"
"
Anaheim ........... Orange ............ ,.
59
1
145 Anaheim ......... 207 Rio Vista . ........... Solano ... . .........
"
"
107
l
Vista
.
.
....
.
..
208
Rio
San Luis Obispo .....
146
"
"
San
Luis
Obispo
.
.
...
"
240
14, 1871.
147 King David's ..... 209 San Jose ........... Santa Clara .......• Oct.
95
148 Friendship ....... 210 Hollister ........... San Benito ........•
"
"
"
12 169
149 San Benito ....... 211 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
"
"
...... , .........
·········
150 So. San Francisco .. 212 Bodega •........... Sonoma •...........
" "
"
93
6
...•...... 213
Ventura
...........•
t Bodega
" "
"
Ventura •..........
433
9
2
Buenaventura
214
Ban
Alameda
......•...•
151
"
"
"
Alameda .. . ...... . •
394
25 12
152 Oak Grove .....•. 215 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...•.•
" "
66
6
1
153 Doric .•.......... 216 Monterey ..... . .... Monterey .........•
"
"
89
8
-60
11, 1872.
154 Monterey •....... 217 Livermore .......... Alameda .. . .......• Oct.
152
12
10
75
155 Mosaic ......... . 218 San Francisco •..... San Francisco ......
" "
"
49
6
30 . .....
156 Speranza Italiana.219 Downey ...•......•. Los Angeles ......••
"
" "
49
6
1
50
157 Downey .......•. 220 Independence •...... Inyo ...............
"
" "
60
6
50
21-2
............ 221
158 Inyo
"
" •
" 1873
Granite .......... 222 Rocklin ...........• Placer ...•..•....•• Oct.
18,
159
······
Maui ........... . 223 Wailuku . . . . . . . . . . . Hawaiian Ter ...••. ~

129
130
131
132
133
134
135

~
0

.&

• ~~~~~~~~-

It

30 ......

"

······

~
zt::if:P~

g
~
0

1-tj

a

5
0

~
~

······

······ ......

·········

-.l
Cl
-.l

168 Calistoga ...... . . 233 Calistoga .......... Napa . .. .......... .
169 Hope ....... .... . 234 Beckwith .......... Plumas .. . ........ .
170 Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville ....... .. . Modoc ............ .
I 71 Hill's Ferry ...... 236 Newman ........... Stanislaus .... ... .. .
172 Guadalupe ....... 237 Guadalupe ......... Santa Barbara .... .
* Tyre ............ 238 Gold Run .......... Placer ............ .
* Pescadero ..... . .. 239 Pescadero .......... San Mateo ........ .
173 Colusa .. . ...... .. 240 Colusa •........•... Colusa .... ... ... ... .
174 Santa Ana ... . ... 241 Santa Ana ......... Orange ... .. ....... .
175 Magnolia ........ 242 Santa Barbara ...... Santa Barbara ..... .
176 Eucalypus ........ 243 Haywards ....... •.. Alameda , ......... .
177 Alcatraz .... ... .. 244 West Oakland ...... Alameda .......... .
178 Laurel ........... 245 Willows ........... . Glenn ............. .
179 Pomona ......... 246 Pomona .........•.. Los Angeles ...•....
180 Fresno . .. ........ 247 Fresno ••.... .... ... Fresno ........ . ... .
181 Alturas .......... 248 Alturas ......... .· .. Modoc ............ .

II
II
II
II
II

Oct.

"
"
Oct.
II
II

Oct.
II

"

Oct. .
II

"
"
"
"
''
14,

''
"
"
''
''
"
1875.

''

"

''

" "
12, 1876.
" ''
" ''
11, 1877.
" "
" "
10, 1878.
'' "

30
1
50 ... ...
30
1
50 ......
35 ..... .

6
12
6
6
6

64
55
30
49
43

50 ..... .
6
50
1
6
50 ..... .
6
35
5
6
50 ...... 12
50 ... .. .. 6
30 ......
6
5o ...... 6
30
1
6

82
225
74
86
320
84
171
288
43

~

ttj

~

i
~
8
~

trj

•

Greenville ....... 249 Greenville .......... Plumas .........•.• Oct.
II
Adin ............ 250 Adin .............. Modoc ............•
II
* Brotherhood ...... 251 Duncan's Mills ..... Sonoma ........... .
183 ;Bodie ............ 252 Bodie ............. . Mono ............. . Oct.
II
184 Landmark ....... 253 Madison ....... .... Yolo ............. .
II
185 Reading .... . .. . . 254. Redding ....... ... . Shasta ............ .
II
186 Welcome ......... 255 Lemoore .......... . Tulare ............ .
II
187 Lodi ...... .. .... 256 Lod~ ......••...... San Joaquin
II
II Arizona ..... . .... 257 Phoenix ....••..... Arizona Ter ........ .
188 Penrhyn ......... 258 Penryn ........ . .. . Placer •............ Oct.
II
189 Evergreen .. ..... 25!l Riverside .......... Riverside ......... .
II
190 King Solomon's ... 260 San Francisco . . . . . San Francisco ..... .
II
191 Tuscan .......... 261 Williams ........ . .. Colusa ............ .
192 Lompoc .......... 262 Lompoc ............ Santa Barbara .... . Oct.
II
II Tucson .......... 263 Tucson ........ .. .. Arizona Ter ........ .
193 Hesperian ........ 264 Santa Maria ..... ... Santa Barbara ....• Oct.
II
194 Orland . ...... ... 265 Orland .......... .. . Glenn ............ ..
II
195 North East ....... 266 Fort Bidwell .... . .. Modoc .........•...
196 Galt ............. 267 Galt .............. . Sacramento ....... . Oct.
197 Durant . .... ..... 26fi Berkeley ........... Alameda .......... .
"I I
198 Olive Branch . . ... 269 Tulare .. , .......... Tulare ............ .
t Fall River ....... 270 Glenburn ..... . . .. . Shasta ...........•• I I
199 Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ........ Colusa ..... . ...... . OCt.
II
200 Pasadena ........ 272 Pasadena ......... : Los Angeles ......•.
II
201 Anchor .... ... ... 273 Compton ......... .. Los Angeles ....... .
II
202 Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo .... .
203 Oakdale . . ....... 27fi Oakdale ..... . ...... Stanislaus .........•
"
* Westport- ........ 276 Westport ........... Mendocino ••......•
"
204 Selma ............ 277 Selma ............. Fresno ......·......• 'Oct.
205 Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .....•••
"
206 Hanford .. . ...... 279 Hanford ........•.. Kings ............. .
207 Madera .. . ....... 280 Madera ............ Madera ..........••
208 Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson .......... Shasta ........... .. Oct.
209 Callayomi ........ 282 Middletown .....•.. Lake ............••
"
~

182

"
"

10,

1878.

""

''

30

••

31

16,

1879.

60 ... .. .

1:!

38

('

30
i
•
33
"
•
120
50 ......
"
30 ......
•
75
"
30 ..... .
I
109
''
''
30 ... ...
i;
53
1880.
II
223
50 .. .. ..
" ''
75 l ~ I~
492
" "
30 ••••••
I~
54
"15, 1881.
"
50
I
''
69
''12, 1882.
"
'"35 :::::: """(i "'"'ii"5
40
I
»
55
" ''
30 l l
11
35
''
"
30 ..... .
11
34
11, 1883.
100
;,
!1
359
" "
. 30 ......
~i
106
" "
"16, 1884.
"
H - 27
30
I
50 .... . .
li
328
" ''
li
58
30 ... .
" ''
1i
47
30 ······
" "
£
52
30
I
'' "
I
"16, 1885.
"
II
93

"
''
"
"
''
15,

1

"

''

" ''
" "
14, 1886.
" "

!~t1······

6
ti

(I

(i

6

628
130
85
37
34

~
~t:;

~

g
~
~

a

~

~
F
-1
Cl
<:O

"
"
"
Oct.
~Kingsburg ......... Fresno
"
; Guerneyville ....... Sonoma ·············
•.•••.......

"
"

;San ;Diego .......... San Diego ..........
'Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou
I Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras
1 Santa Clara. •....... Santa· Clara ........
1
I Redlands ........... San Bernardino .....
. Ontario ............ San Bernardino .....
I Kings' City ........ Monterey •.........
I Porterville ......... Tulare .............
f Reedley ........... Fresno .............
;Azusa
Los Angeles •......•
Colton ......... ; .._. San Bernardino .....
'Santa Monica .•.•.. Loe Angeles ; .......

" "
" "
16, 1890.
" "
" "
" "
"
" "
14, 1891.
" "
" "
" "

········ ...

l Santa Paula ........ Ventura
i Los Gatos .......... SanJa Clara ...•....
I Orange .......... , . Orange ............

2

i

.............

"
........... ""
.......... Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"

30 ......
6
30 ......
9
30
1 12
30 ......
6
30 ......
6
50 ...... , 6
50 ······
6
Do
6
30
6
50 ......
6
30 ......
6
50 ......
6
35 ......
6
30 ......
6
6
30 ......
30 ......
6
50 ......
6

"
" "
IO, 1889.
" "
" "

II

.,..

95
59
84
33
54
164
94
61
147
173
93
42
114
42
77
91

>

t;3

~
~
~
1-'3

p:j

t_tj

95

....

·j Oct.

14,
12,

1891.
1892.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

''
,,
''

,,"
"
''
1893.

235 Monrovia ........ 308 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles .......
236 Delano .......... 30!' Delano ............. Kern .............•
237 Sisson ........... 310 Sisson ............. Siskiyou ..........•
:::;: , Hueneme ........ 311 Hueneme ........... Ventura ...........•
238 Los Banos ....... 312 Los Banos ......... Merced ...........•
239 Tehachapi ....... 313 Tehachapi .•........ Kern ..............•
240 Temescal ........ 314 Corona ............. Riverside ......... .
241 Norwalk ......... 315 Norwalk ......... ... Los Angeles ....... .
242 Sanger .... .. .... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno ............ .
243·- Fallbrook ........ 317Fallbrook .......... San Diego ........ ..
244 Emmanuel ....... 318 Biggs .............. Butte ... . ......... .
245 Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
246 South Gate ...... 320 Los Angeles •. . ... .. Los Angeles . .. •....
247 Alisal .... . . . .... 321 Pleasanton ...... . .. Alameda .......... .
248 Alhambra ........ 322 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ....... .
249 - Whittier ..... . ... 323 Whittier . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles .......•
250 Corona .... . .. , . ·. 324 Pasadena ...... .. .. Los Angeles ....... .
251" Consuelo ......... 32il Escondido .......... San Diego ......... .
252 Needles ...... . ... 326 Needles ............ San Bernardino ....•
253' Long Beach ...... 327 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles ....... .
254 Redondo ......... 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ....... .
255 Vallee de France .. 329 Los Angeles ....... . Los Angeles ....... .
256 Kilauea .... . ..... 330 Hilo ............. . . Hawaiian Ter...... -.
257 Pacific Grove ..... 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monterey ......... .
25 8 San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ....... .
259 Alta ............. 333 Bridgeport ........• Mono ............. .
260 Covina .......... 334 Covina ........... . . Los Angeles ....... .
261 West Gate .. . . ... 335 Los Angeles ..... .. . Los Angeles ....... .
262 Frui tv:aie ........ 336 Fruitvale .......... Alameda .... : ..... .
263 Carqumez ........ 337 Crockett ........ . . . Contra Costa ...... .
264 San Jacinto ....... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ......... .
265 Fullerton .. . .. . .. 339 Fullerton .......... Orange ........... .
266 Santa Maria ..... 340 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .. :..· ••
267 Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura .......... .

Oct.

Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.

"
" ''
'' "'
'' "
'' "
11, 1894.
",, ",,
"
''
11, 1895.
'' "
'' "
13, 1896.

11,

''

15,

''

1897.

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"ct ''' '
'' ,,
"
"
''
"
14, 1898.

'Oct.

14,

1899.

"
"

"
"

"
"
1900.

"

"

Oct.

"

Oct.

"

11,

"

10,

''

"

1901.

50; ......
35 ......

...

l

6
6

73
33

6
9
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
6
6
6
6

82

~\:::::: .... ~6 ..... .~38

50 ......
501
1
40 . . . . . .
1
30 ......
:~0 1 ......
30 1 . . . . . .
301 "
50 ... ...
50 ,_-,
35 .... ..
35 .. ....
30
.~
50 ......
30
.I
.60
I
50 ......

BO

6

6

:

6

50 ......
50 ......
40 ......
50 ......
53 ······
30..... .
75 .. .. ..
50 .. ....
30......
3()......
50 ......
35 ......
30 ......

12
12
6
12
9

6
6
6
6

f

6

n

42

12
4.5
46
896
440
39
100
127
246
58
66
233
83
46
119
41
105
41
64
302
113
65
63
96
65
161

~
z>t::l

~

g
~
~

c

5
~

F
-:i

~

1--l

Cavite ........... 350 Cavite ............. Philippine Islands .. . Oct.
277 Palestine ......... 351 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
"
278 Sunset •.......... 352 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
279 Pinole ....•....•. 353 Pinole •..•..•..•... Contra Costa .....•• " "
"
280 Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco •..... San Francisco •..•.•
"
281 Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood ......... Los Angeles .......•
"
282 Mill Valley ....... 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin ......•.....•
"
283 Buena Park ....... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange .....••.•..•
"
284 Golden State ...... 358 Los Angeles ...• : ... Los Angeles .......• Oct.
285 Loyalton ......••. 359 Loyalton ........... Sierra ............ ..
"
286 San Francisco ..•.. 360 San Francisco • . . • . . San Francisco ..... .
"
287 Fort Bragg ....... 361 Fort Bragg ......... Mendocino ........•
"
288 Charity .......... 362 Campbell ......•.... Santa Clara .......•
"
289 Berkeley ......... 363 Berkeley ..•........ Alameda ...•..•...•
"
290 Olivet ...•....... 364 Corning ............ Tehama ...........•
"
291 Willits .......... 365 Willits •........... Mendocino ........• Oct.
292 Las Palmas ...•... 366 Fresno •......•..... Fresno ...•.........
"

15,

1903.

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1904.
"
"
"
"
"

12,

1905.

... "-

"

"
"
"
"

"
16,
13,

"
"

"
"
-"

"

293 South Pasadena ... 3!17 South Pasadena .... Los Angeles ........
294 Unity ............ 368 Glendale
Los Angeles ••.•.•..
295 Ocean Park •..... 369 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ........
296 Amity ........... 370 San Francisco •..•.. San Francisco ......
297 Oceanic ...•....•• 371 Honolulu •.....•.... Hawaiian Ter.......
Los Angeles ........
298 Gardena ......... 372 Gardena
299 Veteran ......... 373 Sawtelle ........... Los Angeles ...•.•..
300 Jewel ........... 374 San. Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
301 Richmond •••..... 375 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
302 Francis Drake .... 3 76 South San Francisco. San Mateo .........
Los Angeles •.•..•..
303 Artesia ••........ 377 Artesia
304 Mizpah •..•...... 378 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
305 Fillmore .. , ...... 379 Fillmore •..•....... Ventura •...........
306 Huntington Beach. 380 Huntington Beach .. Orange ............
307 Oceanside : .•.. : .. 381 Oceanside ......•... San Diego •.........
308 Highland Park •... 382 Los Angeles .•......• Los Angeles ...•.....
309 Orosi ...•..•..•.. 383 Orosi ........ -...... Tulare ..•.......•..
310 El Centro .•...... 384 El Centro ........... San Diego : . ........
311 Corregidor ....... 385 Manila ......... , ... Philippine Islands ...
312 Dinuba .......... 386 Dinuba ........ , .... Tulare ... , ....•.•..
313 Coalinga •••••...• 387 Coalinga ........... Tulare •............
314 Parnassus ........ 388 San Francisco ..... , • San Francisco .......
315 Palos Verdes ...... 389 Long Beach ..... , ..• Los Angeles ..........

...........

12

50 ······[
50
3
50
5
5
50
50
5
30
3
3
30
50 ......
75 10
50
5
30 ......
3
50
1
30
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
30 ......
50

6
53
74
6
68
6
12
98
116.
12
39
6
72
6
49
12
90
12
29
6
31
6
119
6
31
12
24
6
21
6
69
6
'
25
10
30
6
25
30
6
30
6
50
12
6 - -21
-

{i
{i

12
9
6
12
6
6
6
12
6
6
6
6
6
6

69
152
127
60

145
97
86
44
157
37
144
62
40
149
41
44
117

f-3

t_'rj

r

0
I::'

~

0

~

f-3

~

t_'rj

,

-

-----

50
5
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50
5
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
30 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 ..... .
30 ..... .
30 .... ..
50 ..... .
30 ..... .
1
50
50 ..... .

1905.

Oct.

12,

"
"
"

" "
"
"
" "
" "
10, 11106.

"
"

...........

Oc.t.

············

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

10,

1907.

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

......

30
50
50
50

······

......
······
10

36,126

---

~
zt:l>r0
I::'

~
0

~

a

~

~

......
~

-1

o;i

~

764

. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES:

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia ... .. .. ... ... 92 Coloma .............. El Dorado.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ........•....... Modoc.
.Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek ....... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville .......... Alameda.
Alcatraz .... .' ...... 244 Oakland ........... .. Alameda.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ........... Los Angeles.
Alisa! ............. . 321 Pleasanton ........... Alameda.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono.
Atluras .... .... . ... 248 Alturas .............. Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador·............ 65 Jackson ........... .. Amador.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ............ Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
.Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Arcata. ............. 106 Arcata .............. Humboldt.
Arroyo ...•........ 274 Arroyo Grande .......San Luis Obispo.
Artesia ....•....... 377 Artesia .............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar .•........... 306 Colton ...............San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davisville ........... Yolo.
Azusa ......•...... 305 Azusa ............... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ...........Kern.
Bear Mountain ..... 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ............ Alamede..
Bodie ............. 252 Bodie ............... Mono.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ........... Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .......... 225 East Oakland ........ Alameda.
Buckeye .....•..... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park ......... 357 Buena Park .......... Orange.
California. • . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middleto.w n ........• :Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ...•........ Napa.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............ .Contra Costa.
Cavite ........ ..... 350 Cavite .. : ........... Philippine Island1.
Charity •.......... 362 Campbell ............ Santa Clara.
Chico ...•.....•.... 111 Chico ............... Butte.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat .......... .Placer.

.

765

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Clear Lake .....•.. 183 Lower Lake •........ Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ................. .Sl;lasta.
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga ............. Tulare.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Confidence· ......... 203 Castroville .......... Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido ......•.... San Diego. '
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa ............... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuh~.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena .......•.... Los Angeles.
Corregidor ......... 386 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Covelo ........ . ... 231 Covelo ........... ....Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City ........ Del Norte.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ....... ,san Francisco.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 300 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba .· ............. Tulare.
Doric .......... ~ ... 216 San Francisco ........ San Francisco .
Downey ........... 220 Downey ............. Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Drytown : ........... Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 297 Dunsmuir ............ Siskiyou.
Durant ........... ~268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
East Gate ......... 290 Los Angeles ........ ,.Lios Angeles.
Eden .............. 11~ San Leandro ......... Alameda.
Eel River .......... 147 Rohnerville .......... Humboldt.
El Centro ... ·........ 384 El Centro ....... : .... San Diego.
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville .......... El Dorado.
Elk Gr<JVe ..... • ... 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore .. .' .......... Riverside.
Emmanuel .... .. ... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise ......•.. 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Eucalyptus ..... . .. 243 Haywards ........... Alameda.
Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn .. . .......... Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills .......... . Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fallbrook ......... 317 Fall brook ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Ferndale ............ Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore .. ··: .......• Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest . . • . . . . . . . . . . 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.

766

ALPHABETIGAL LIST OF LODGES.

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ............Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..•... 376 South San Francisco ... San Mateo.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship ..... , •.. 210 San Jose ...•........ Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .•........ 336 Fruitvale ......... ; .. Alameda.
Fullerton .......•... 339 Fullerton ............ Orange.
Gali; ............... 267 Galt .....•.......... Sacramento.
Gardena .......... 372 Gardena ..•.......... Los Angeles.
Georgetown • . . . . . . . 25 Georgetown •...•...•. El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp ........ Tuolumne.
Gibsonville ....•... 158 Gibsonville .......... Sierra.
Golden Gate •..•... 30 San Francisco ........ S!Ln Francisco.
Golden State ...... 3;J!i Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln ...•.......... Placei:.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Granite ..........• 222 Rocklin ............. Placer.
Gravel Range ••••.. 59 Camptonville .......• Yuba.
Guadalupe .'. .••.... 237 Guadalupe ........... Santa Barbara.
Hanford .......... 279 Hanford ............. Kings.
Harmony ..••.••... 164 Sierra City •........• Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian . . . . . . • . . . 21 Honolulu ........•.. .Hawaiian Islands.
Henry Clay • . . • • • • • 95 Sutter Creek •....••.. Amador.
Hermann •..•..•... 127 San Francisco •..• ·• .• San Francisco.
Hesperian ••.•..... 264 Santa Maria ........•Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ...... 382 Los Angeles .........• Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry ...•.•• 236 Newman ....•..•.... ~Stanislaus.
Hiram •• ". . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado •.........• El Dorado.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood •...•... 355 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith ............ Plumas.
Hornitos . . . . . . . . . . . 98 IIornitos •.•.•...... ., .Mariposa.
Howard ..........• 96 Yreka •..•.....•..... Siskiyou.
Humboldt ....•.... 79 Eureka •............ Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown • . . • • • . . 51 Colfax •............. Placer.
Inyo .........•...• 221 Independence ........Inyo.
Ione . . . . . . • . . • • . . . 80 lone ..•.......••••.. Amador.
Jefferson •......... 97 Laporte ............. Plumas.
Janesville •..••.••• 233 Janesville ...••••.... Lassen.
Jewel •..••........ 374 San Francisco ••...... San Francisco.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ....•.......... Santa Clara.
Keystone .....•.•.. 161 Milton .............. Calaveras.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

.

767

LQdge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Islands.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo . . . . . San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco .•...... San Francisco.
La Fayette ........126 Sebastopol ........... Sonoma.
La Grange • . . . . . . . . 99 Merced .............. Merced.
Landmark •........ 253 Madison ............. Yolo.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susanville ........... Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ..............Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara .......... Santa Clara.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland ... ·.......... Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ...... '· ... 262 Lompoc .............. Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos ............ Mereed.
Los Gatos ....•.... 292 Los Gatos . , ......... Santa Clara.
Loyalton ........... 359 Loyalton ............ Sierra.
Madera •........... 280 Madera ....... .' ...... Madera.
Madison ........... 23 Grass Valley ......... Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Manila ............ 342 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Manzanita ......... 102 North San Juan .... ._.Nevada.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa .......... 24 Mariposa ............ Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez ............ Contra Costa.
Maxwell· .•......... 288 Maxwell .............. Colusa.
McKinley .......... 347 Point Richmond ...•• Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino.
Meridian .......... 182 College City ......... Colusa.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah ........••.• 378 Los Angeles .....•... Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill •..... Calaveras.
Molino ..........•.. 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Monrovia ......... 308 Monrovia ............ Los Angeles.
Monterey .......... 217 Monterey ...•... .".... Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton .· ........... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ...•.••..... 218 Livermore ........... Alameda.
Mount Jackson •.... 295 Guerneville .......... Sop.oina.
Mount Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mountain Shade ... 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.

768
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
No.

Post Office.

County.

Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Mount Zion ....... 114 Grizzly Flat ......... El Dorado.
Natoma . .. ........ 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval ......... .... 87 Vallejo ... . . . ........ Solano.
Needles ...... ..... . 326 Needles .. .... ....... San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City ......... Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Newville ............. Glenn.
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland ...........Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley ............. Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ..........Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ............. Shasta.
North Star .... .. .. 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............ Los .Angeles;
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda .............Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park ....... 369 Santa Monica .......• Los Angeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu ............ Oahu.
Oceanside .... .. . .. . 381 Oceanside .. . ........ San Diego.
Olive Branch . ..... 269 Tulare . ... .......... Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ........... 301 Ontario ..... ........ . San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange .............. Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco . . ...... San Francisco.
Orland ......... .. . 265 Orland .. .... ....... . Glenn.
Orosi .... . .. •. ... ... 383 Orosi .. .... . . ........ Tulare.
Oroville .......... . . 103 Oroville .. .. ......... Butte.
Owen ............. 108 Scott's Bar .......... Siskiyou.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific .......... .. 136 San Francisco ... ..... San Francisco.
Pacific Grove . .... .. 331 Pacific Grove .........Monterey.
Pajaro . .... ... .... 110 Watsonville .... .. ...•Santa Cruz.
Palestine .... . ..... 351. Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra ........... 151 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Alto ... ....... 346 Palo Alto .... ... ..... Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes ....... 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco .. ~· .... San l'rancisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena ..... . . .. ... Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ..... ... 286 Paso Robles . . ........San Luis Obispo.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ............. ~Placer.
Pentalpha ......... 202 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Petaluma .......... 180Petaluma ............. Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ...... San Bernardino.
Pinole ............. 353 Pinole ............... Contra Costa.
Plumas ............. 60 Quincy ..............Plumas.
Pomona .... . ...... 246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville ......... 303 Porterville . .. ....... . Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San Fra~ci/!co ........ San Francisco.
Quitman .... .. ..... 88 North Bloomfield ..... Nevada.
Reading ........... 254 Redding .... ; ........ Shasta.
Redlands .. .. ... . .. 300 Redlands .............San Bernardino.
Redondo ........... 328 Redondo ............. Los Angeles.
Redwood City . ·~ . .. 168 Redwood City ........ San Mateo.
Reedley ........... 304 Reedley ............. Fresno.
Richmond ... . ..... 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista .... .. ... . 208 Rio Vista ............ Solano.
Rising Star .... . ... 83 Forest Hill .......... Placer.
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . 89 Smartsville ......... : .Yuba.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ............. Sonoma.
Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena ...... . 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's ....... 37 Yreka ..............•Siskiyou.
Salinas ............ 204 Salinas ... .. ......... Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister ............. San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura .. . .......... Ventura.
·Santa Ana ......... 241 Santa Ana ........... Orange.
Santa Barbara ..... 192 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........ 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ........... San Diego.
Sanger ............ 316 Sanger ....... . ...... Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino .....•San Bernardino.
San Fernando ...... 343 Fernando ............ Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ......... Riverside.
San Joaquin ....... 19 Stockton ......... . .. .San Joaquin.
San Jose . ... .......•10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ...... . . . 226 San Mateo ........... San Mateo.
San Miguel .... . .. 285 San Miguel .......... San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro ...... . .. 332 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Lucia ....... 302 . Kings City ...... .... Monterey.
Santa Maria ....... 340 Santa Maria .. . .. . ... Santa Barbara.
Santa Monica ...... 307 Santa Monica ., .....•Los Angeles.

769

770
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
No.

PostOffice.

County.

Santa Paula ....... 291 Santa Paula •........ Ventura.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria ............. San Luis Obispo.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... Sonoma.
Selma •.........••. 277 Selma ............... Fresno.
Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Sierra Valley •..... 184 Sierra ville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate ........ 296 San DielfP ........... San Diego.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville .......... Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ............... Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford .......... Colusa.
Solano ............ 229 Vallejo . .... ......... Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg . . . . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles ......... .Los Angeles.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena ...... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South West ........ 283 National City ........ San Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Stanislaus ......... 206 Modesto ..••.•••..••. Stanislaus.
Starr King ........ 344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . 55 Suisun .............. Solano.
Summit ........... 112 Knights Ferry ....... Stanislaus.
Sunset ............. 352 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .... 235 Cedarville ........... Modoc.
Table Mountain .... 124 Cherokee ...•........ Butte.
Tehachapi •.......• 313 Tehachapi •..•....... Kern.
Tehama . . . • . . • . . . . . 3 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona .............. Riverside.
Temple •........... 14 Sonoma ............. Sonoma.
Texas ............. 46 San Juan •.......... San Benito.
Traver ............ 294 Kingsburg ........... Fresno.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville ..........Trinity.
Truckee ........... 200 Truckee ............. Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora .............. Tuolumne.
Tuscan ............ 261 Williams ............ Colusa.
Tyrian . ·........... 284 Dunnigan ............ Yolo.
Union ............. 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale . . ............ Los Angeles.
Vacaville ......•..• 134 Vacaville ............ Solano.
Vallee de France ...• 329 Los Angeles .........•Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . • 84 Red Bluff ............ Tehama.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Veteran ........... 373 Sawtelle ..•......•... Los Angeles.
Visalia ....•....... 128 Visalia .........•..•.. Tulare.
Vitruvius ........•. 145 Bloomfield .........•. Sonoma.
Volcano ..........• 56 Volcano ........ : •... Amador.
Washington ...•.... 20 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Welcome .......... 255 Lemoore .............. Kings.
Western Star . . . . • . 2 Shasta .............. Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Los Angeles .....•... Los Angeles.
Whittier ......•.... 323 Whittier ~ .....•..... Los Angeles.
Willits .......... ,. .. 365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington .....•.... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah .....•. 287 Bishop- .........•..•.. Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ......... San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yolo ..••• ·....•••••• 81 Yolo ••.••••••••••••• Yolo.
Yosemite •......... 133 Coulterville ........•. Mariposa.
Yount ............. 12 Napa ...............•Napa.
Yuba .............. 39 Marysville .......•... Yuba.

771

772

Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.

Post Office.

. Lodge.

773

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES.

No.

Adin ..... . .............. Adiri .... ......... .. ..... .. . 250
Alhambra ............... Alhambra ...•.............. 322
Alameda . .. ..... . . . ..... c1ak Grove .................. 215
Alleghany ............... Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 66
Alturas ........ . ........ Alturas .. .• ..... .' ... ....... 248
Anaheim ......... . ...... Anaheim ................ ·. .. 207
Anderson ..... ...... . .. .. Mount Shasta .. . ............ 281
Angels Camp ............ Bear Mountain ..... ..... ... 76
Antioch .......... .. ..... Antioch ..............•..... 175
Arroyo Grande ..... ... ... Arroyo ................. : . .. 274
Auburn .................. Eureka ............. .• ... . .. 16
Arcata .................. Arcata ............. .. ...... 106
Artesia . .. ............... Artesia .... . •.............. . 377
Azusa ................... Azusa .. ........ ........... . 305
Bakersfield .•...•...••... .Bakersfield ....... .......... 224
Beckwith .. . ... . . ........ Hope ... ... .. .. . ... . ... . .. . .234
Benicia ..................Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley ......•......... Durant . . ................... 268
Berkeley ......•......... Berkeley . .. . . .. ...... . ..... 363
Biggs ....... . ........... Emmanuel .................. 318
Bishop .................. Winnedumah . ... . .......... 28i
Bloomfield .. ... . ......... Vitruvius .. ... ........... . . 145
Bodie ... ... ............. .Bodi!! . ..... .. .............. 252
Brentwood ............... Brentwood ............... . . 345
Bridgeport .......... .. ...Alta ....................... 333
Buena Park ....... ...... . Buena Park ........... ; .... 357
Calistoga •.............. . Calistoga ......... . .. . ...... 233
Cambria ..... . ........... San Simeon ......... . ....... 196
Campbell . .. . . .. . .. ...... Charity . . . .. . .............. 362
Comptonville ... . .........Gravel Range . ..... . ..... ... 59
Castroville . . . ............ Confidence .. ...... .. .. ... ... 203
Cavite, P. I. . . ............ Cavite ..... ....... ... .. .....350
Cedarville . . ............. Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville ...............Alameda ... .. .............. 167
Cherokee . ......... . ..... Table Mountain ......•.. .. . 124
Chinese Camp ...... . .. . .. George Washington . . ....• .. 62
Chico ......•... . ......•••Chico . . ... ..... ... : . ....... 111

Lodge.

No.

Cloverdale •........••..•. Curtis ..................... . 140
Coalinga .... . ............ Coalinga ................... 387
Coulterville ...•......•••.Yosemite ........ .• ......... 133
College City ••.• •. .•......Meridian ...•.••....••..•..• 182
Colfax .••..••...•........Illinoistown • • . • . . . . . • . . . . . . 51
Corona ....... : .......... Temescal ..........•....•... 314
Courtland • .. •.....• . .•..•Franklin ..........•........ 143
Covelo ................... Covelo .. . . : .................231
Colusa ... . ............... Colusa ..........•.•.••......240
Colton •.....••...........Ashlar ....•........... ..• ...306
Covina •..... , ............Covina .••.................. 334
_C ompton ...•.............Anchor . .•.. ......•..••.....273
Coloma .................. Acacia ....•.........•..•.... 92
Corning ................. Olivet .............••.•..... 364
Crescent City ...........• Crescent .. .. .......•....... 45
Crockett ........•....••..Carquinez •....••..•..•......337
Davisville .......•....•.. Athens .... . ................ 228
Delano ..........•......• Delano ..................... 309
Dinuba ............ .....•• Dinuba .. . . . ............ .. .. 385
Dixon ....•.•.•. .. .•.••.. Silveyville . .•..•... . ....•... 201
Downey ...........• •.. .. Downey .. ... .... ... .• ...... 220
Downieville .... ...... .•. . Mountain Shade . . .......•.• 18
Drytown . ..... ... . ...... .Drytown ................... 174
Dutch Flat .............. Clay ..... ·. ... .....•.........101
Dunsmuir ...•... .... .... .Dunsmuir . ...........•...... 297
Dunnigan ... •. .. . ...... ..Tyrian ... . ........ • ........ 284
East Oakland ... .. ....... Brooklyn . . ........ . ..... . .. 225
East Los Angeles . .. . ..... Sunset .. . . . .•........ • ......290
Elk Grove ..... . .. .• ... . . Elk Grove ...... ... •.•.... .. 173
Elsinore ... ... ... .. ...... Elsinore . ... ...........•. ... 289
El Centro ........ . ....... El Centro ..... ... .. . ........ 384
El Dorado ............... Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
El Monte .... . . . ......... Lexington . .. .. . ... •. ....... 104
Escondido ........••..... .Consuelo . .. ................ 325
Etna Mill . . ........ . ..... Evening Star ....... ·' ·. : . ... 186
Eureka ...•...... .. ...... Humboldt .. ............. ... . 79
Fallbrook •........•..... .Fallbrook . . ..... . . ..·.• ... .. . 317
Fernando .. ... .. ..... .... San Fernando ............. . . 343
Ferndale . .........•...... .Ferndale .. • ........•........193
Fillmore ........• • ....... Fillmore ... ........•........379
Forbestown ..•... .• ...... Forbestown ..... . ........... 50
Folsom ................. ~Natoma ......•.........•.•. 64
Fort Bidwell •.....•...... North East ....•............ 266

774

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Post Office.

Lodge.

No,.

Fort Bragg ...........•.. Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones ...•.....•.••.. North Star •................ 91
Forest Hill .............. Rising Star ................. 83
Fresno ...••.••..•••..••. .Fresno •.................... 24 7
Fresno .........••••. '. ..•.Las Palmas ................. 366
Fruitvale ....••...•.•.... Fruitvale .........••........ 336
Fullerton ................ Fullerton •...........•...... 339
Galt ...•..........••....•Galt ......................... 267
Gardena •...•........•... Gardena ...•....•........... 372
Georgetown ...••......... Georgetown .••..••.......... 25
Gibsonville ...•. _. ...•.... Gibsonville ................. 158
Gilroy .........•......•.. Keith ............•......•.. 187
Glendale ........•........ Unity ..•.....••........•... 368
Grafton ................. Grafton ..................... 141
Grass Valley •.....••••... Madison ..•...•.....••..•... 23
Greenville .•••....•••.•.. Sincerity .••......•..•...... 132
Grizzly Flat ............. Mount Zion ................. 114
Gridley .................. North Butte ................. 230
.Guadalupe ............... Guadalupe .................. 237
Guerneville .............. Mount Jackson ............. 295
Hanford •...•••.....•••.. Hanford •........•..•....•.. 279
Haywards ••..••.••.•.••• Eucalyptus ..........•...... 243
Healdsburg ..... .••.....•. Sotoyome ................... 123
Hilo, H. I. . ......••...... Kilauea ..................... 330
Hornitos ••..•.•....•..•.. Hornitos .•....••........•.. 98
Hollister .................San Benito ..............•.. 211
:Hollywood ...........•... Hollywood ......••.......... 355
Honolulu, H. I. ........... Hawaiian ...•....••........ 21
Honolulu, H. I ............ Oceanic .................... 371
Huntington Beach ....•..• Huntington Beach ...•....... 380
1go ..•.........•.....•... Clinton ..................... 119
Independence •..•.......•Inyo ••....•.....••.......... 221
Jone .... ; ...............• Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 80
Jackson ................. Amador .................... 65
..Janesville ................ Janesville .................. 232
Kingsburg ..•...........• Traver •.••......•... . ...... 294
Xings City •...••.....•... Santa Lucia ....•........•.. 302
Knights Ferry ........... Summit ..................... 112
Lakeport ..........•..... Hartley .......•.••.......•• 199
Laporte .......•......... Jefferson ..•........•....... 97
Lemoore .........•••....• Welcome .............•..... 255
Lincoln ...........•.•...• Gold Hill . . • . . . . . • • • . . . • . . . . 32
Livermore .....•.....•... Mosaic ..........•.......... 218

Post Office.

Lodge.

775
No.

..........••...••. Valley ..................... .135
LLinden
di
0
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Lodi .
256
Lompoc ........•.•...••.• Lompoc...................... 262
L

•········•··•·•·•····

Lower Lake ............. Clear Lake .................. 183
ong ,~each •..•...•.•.•.. Long Beach ................. 327
· · · • · · ....••.. Palos Verdes •..•..........•• 389
Los ~~geles .............. Los Angeles . .. .. .. • . . .. .. . . 42
.•.....•..•.•. Pentalpha
202
.........•.•.. Southern c~iu~~i~.:::::::: :278
"
.............. East Gate
•
290
"
...• -.· •...•... Hollenbeck.:::::::::::::::: :319
"
•..•.......... South Gate ........•........ 320
"
.............. Vallee de France ............ 329
"
...•..•.••.... West Gate .................. 335
"
..••....•..... Palestine •................•. 351
"
.............. Sunset .....•............... 352
"
.•....•.•...•. Golden State •........•...... 358
"
................ Mizpah ..................... 378
"
· .............. Highland Park .............. 382
"
Los Banos •. .•.....•..... Los Banos .......•.......... 312
Los Gatos ................ Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton ........••.....••Loyalton ................... 359
Marysville ............... Corinthian . . .. . .. . ... . . . . . . . 9
''
......•....... ruba ....................... 39
Madison ......•....•..•.. Landmark .... . •..•......... 253
Manila .................. Manila, P. I .. ............... 342
''
· · · ............... Corregidor .................. 386
Maxwell ................. Maxwell •................... 288
Madera .................. Madera ....... ·• ............. 280
Mariposa •...........•... Mariposa . .
24
Martinez .................Martinez
. . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . • 41
Merced .................. La Grang~ ................... 99

.... ··············

M~ndocino .............. .Mendocino .................. 179
Middletown ..............Callayomi ................... 282
Milton .................• .Keystone
161
M~ll yalley .............. Mill Valle~·:::::::::::::::: :356
Millville ................. Northern Light ............. 190
Mokelumne Hill •..•...... Mokelumne Hill ............ 298
Monrovia •....••......... Monrovia
308
Monter~y ................. Monterey :::::::::::::::::::217
Mountam View ...........Mountain View ............. 194
Modesto •.....•••••...... Stanislaus .........•........ 206

.Murphy's ..•••...••.•...• Ophir •........•............ 33

776

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Post Office.

Lodge.

777

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
No.

National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa ....................Yount .....•.••....•......•... 12
Newman ......•..•.......Hill's Ferry ....•......••... 236
Needles ....•...... ; ..•... Needles ...•........•..••... 326
Nevada City ............. Nevada .................... 13
Newville .................Newville ............... , ... 205
North Bloomfield ........• Quitman ............•...... 88
North San Juan .......... Manzanita ................. 102
Norwalk .•.....•.•....... Norwalk ................... 315
Oakland ................. Live Oak .................. 61
''
................ . Oakland .................. . 18ij
''
................. Sequoia .................... 349
''
................ . Alcatraz ................... . 244
Oakdale ................. Oakdale .........•.......... 275
Oceanside .........•..•...Oceanside ......•........... 381
Ontario .........•........ Ontario .................... 301
Orange ...............•.• Orange Grove ............... 293
Orland ................•. Orland ..................... 265
Orosi .................... Orosi ....................... 383
Oroville ..............•.. Oroville ....•..•..•......... 103
Oxnard ........•....•.... Oxnard .................... 341
Pacific Grove ..•......... Pacific Grove •..•..•..•..... 331
Palo Alto ...........•.... Palo Alto .................. 346
Paso Robles .............. Paso Robles ................ 286
Pasadena ..•..........•.• Pasadena ...............•.. 272
Pasadena ................ Corona .....•.••...•..•..... 324
Penryn .........•........ Penrhyn •........•.......... 258
Petaluma ..•....•......•.• Petaluma .................. 180
Pinole ................•.. Pinole •..•..••........•.... 353
Pleasanton ..•............ Alisal ...................... 321
Placerville .....•.....•... El Dorado • . . . • • . • . . . . . . . . . 26
''
.............. . Palmyra ................... . 151
Point Arena ............. Claiborne .....•.••.....•... 185
Point Richmond .......... McKinley .................. 347
Pomona ..................Pomona .................... 246
Porterville ............•.. Porterville ........•........ 303
Quincy .................. Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
Redondo ................. Redondo .....•............. 328
Redding ........ , .....•.. Reading .................... 254
Redlands ...........•...• Redlands .•..••..•..•...••.. 300
Reedley .......•........• Reedley .................... 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City ..•...... ; .... 168
Red Bluff ....•......•.••• Vesper .•.•.....•.... ·. . . . . . . 84

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Rio Vista •..•..•..•...... Rio Vista •••....•..•....... 208
Riverside •.•••....•.••..• Evergreen •..•.....•..•..... 259
Rocklin ................. Granite ..................... 222
•Rohnerville .............. Eel River .................. 147
Sacramento •.•........... Tehama . . . • . . . . • . . • . . . • . . . • 3
''
............. . Washington ................ 20
''
............. . Sacramento ................. 40
•............. Union ...•........•..•.....• 58
"
.•...... -.. ...•. Concord ····~······.' ....... ·.117
"
San Andreas •..•..••.••.. Calaveras • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
San Bernardino .......•.. Phoenix •••....••....•....•. 178
''
.......... San Bernardino ............. 348
San Diego ••............. San Diego . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . • . 35
''
............... Silver Gate ................... 296
San Francisco •....•...... California . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . • . . 1
''
........... . Parfaite Union ............. 17
''
............ Occidental ... ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
''
........... . Golden Gate ................ 30
''
........... . Mount Moriah .............. 44
''
........... . Fidelity ................... . 120
......•..•.. Hermann ................... 127
"
.•......•... Pacific ..••...•......••••.•• 136
"
.......•.•.. Crockett •...•••............ 139
"
............ Oriental .................... 144
"
...•..••.••• Excelsior ....••..•••.••..... 166
"
".
.........•.. Mission .....•.....••....... 169
............ South San Francisco ........ 212
"
............ Doric ...•....•......•...... 216
"
............ Speranza Italiana ............ 219
"
•. , , • , •..••• King Solomon's •..••.•...•.. 260
~'
............ Starr King .................. 344
~ '·
. , ....•..... Presidio ............•..•.•.. 354
"
. , .......... San Francisco •.•........... 360
"
, ........... Amity .........•....•...... 370
"
...•..•.•.••.. Jewel •............•........ 374
"
•... , •..••.• Richmond ..............•... 375
"'~
........... . Parnassus ................... . 388
San Jacinto .............. San Jacinto ........ ; ...•... 338
San Jose ..•...•..•..•.... San Jose .....•..•......••.. 10·
''
................ . ~'riendship ..•............. . 210
San Juan ................ Texas ...................... 46
San Leandro ..........••. Eden ..•...•..•........•..•• 113
San Luis Obispo .......•.• King David's ....... ·•....... 209

16

778

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO~NIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES.

Post Office.
Loan.
No.
San Mateo •.....•..••••.• San Mateo ..•..•.....••.... 226
San Miguel .... : .•.••...• .Ban Miguel ........••••..... 285
San Pedro •.....•..••.... ;San Pedro ............•..••. 332
San Rafael ...•.•..••..••. Marin .....•.•....•..•....•. 191
Santa Ana ............•.• Santa Ana ...••... .; ..••..... 241
Santa Barbara ........... Santa ;Barbara .............. 192
''
.......... . Magnolia ................... 242
Santa Cruz •.......••..... Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
Santa Clara •.. ·• ........•• Liberty .................... 299
Santa Maria ............• Hesperian .................. 264
''
............ . Santa Maria ............... . 340
Santa Monica •..••..••... Santa Monica .............. .307
''
............ Ocean Park ................ 369
Santa Paula .............. Santa Paula ................ 291
Santa Rosa ...........•.. Santa Rosa ......•.......... 57
Salin~s ...•....••.•...... Salinas .....•.........•..... 204
Sanger ...............•...Sang.er ...................... 316
Sawtelle ...........••.... Veteran .................... 373
Scott's Bar •..........•.. Owen .•..•...•..•..•.....•. 108
Sebastopol ............... La Fayette .................126
Selma ...........•..•.... Selma .•.••.•.•............. 279
Saint Helena ............. Saint Hellllla ............... 293
Shasta ................... W eetern Star . • .. . . .. . • . . . . . 2
Sierra City •..••••...•.•.. Harmony ..........•.•...... 164
Sierraville •.....•......•. SieJTa Valley ............... 184
Sisson ........••...•......S-l!lllOn ...............••..... 310
Smartsville •.•.•••....•.. .Bose's Bar ......•....•• .". . . . 89
South Pasadena •••...••••. South Pasadena ............. 367
South San Francisco ...•.•• Francis Drake .............. 376
Sonoma ••...•.....•.•..•. Temple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Sonora ....•••......•.••.. Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . 8
Stockton ...•....•....•... San Joaquin ................ 19
''
................ . Morning Star .............. 68
Stony Ford .............. Snow Mountain ............. 271
Susanville ...........•... Lassen ..................... 149
Sutter Creek ...•......... Henry Clay . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 95
Suisun .................. .Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Tehama .............•... .Molino ..................•.. 150
· Te~achapi ............... Tehachapi .................. 313
Truckee ................. Truckee .................... 200
Tulare ................... Olive Branch ............... 269
Ukiah ........•........•. Abell .....•................ 146

Post orce.

Lodge.

779
No.

ValleJo •.•.....••.•...... Naval ......•........•...•.. 81
''

........ ..•....... Solano ................... .. 229

Vacaville ................ Vacaville ........•.....•.... 134
Ventura ................. San Buenaventura .....•...•. 214
Visalia' ....•....••.•..... Visalia .•••.•....• , •..•.•... 128
Volcano ................. Volcano ....•.•.....•....... 56
Walnut Creek ....•..••... Alamo ••.••••••.•..•••...••• 122
Watsonville •. ·~ ........... Pajaro •.....•..•....•...... 110
Weaverville ............. Trinity ..................... 27
Wheatland ..•.....•.••... Nieolaus •..•.•...•.••.•••.. 129
Whittier •.•.••..••.•.••.. Whittier .••.••..•.•..•••.... 323
Winters •.•.•.•.•..•.••.. Buckeye .................... 195
Willits ••••...•.•••..•••. Willits .•..........•..•..... 365
Willow• •••••...••.•••.•. Laurel •.•...••...•..•.•.•.. 245
Windsor •.••••••••••••••• Russian River ••••.••..••.••. 181
Williams ••••••••.•....•.•Tuscan ...••...•....••.•••.. 261
Wilmington .•••••••••••••. Wilmington ••.•..•.•..•••... 198
Woodbridge •...••.•••... Woodbridge .•.•.••..••••... 131
Woodland ....•..•.••.•.•. Woodland ••.....•..•••••••. 156
Yolo .....................Yolo ....................... 81
Yreka ....•......••.••... St. John's ••••............•. 37
''
.................. . Howard .................... 96
Yuba City •.•••••.••.•••. Enterprise •.......••....•... 70

.
.,

J

780

GRAND :;LODGES IN CORRESPONDENCE.

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.

781

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
ANP BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Lodges.

Grand Secretarle11.

· Residences.

Organized

Alabama • , .••• ••• •George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery ...... June 15, 1821
Arizona ........... George J. Roskruge ... Tucson ............ Mar. 25, 1882
Arkansas ......••••Fay Hempstead ...•.. Little Rock ........ Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbia ..•R. E. Brett ........... Victoria .......... :Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............Hugh Murray ....... .Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado ...••.••••• Charles H . Jacobson ... Denver ............ Aug. Z, 1861
8, 1789
Connecticut ..• ••.• John H. Barlow . ..... . Hartford •... ·. . ; . .. July
Delaware . ..•...• ••Benjamin F . Bartram.Wilmington ..•..• ..June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbia .. Arvine W. Johnston . ..Washington ....... Fob. 19, 1811
5, 1830
Florida .•........... Wilber P. Webster ... .Jacksonville ... :: . .July
Georgia ........... w. A. Wollhln ........Macon ............. Dec. · 16, 1786
Idaho ..............Theophilus W. RandallBolse .. : . .... ; . : .. . Dec. 17, 1867
Illinois .• ,, •••••.••• Isaac Cutter .. ...•.. .. Camp Point .•... .. April 6, 1840
Indiana ..... ~ •...•. Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ...•. . Jan. 12, 1818
5, 18H
Indian Terrltory, •• Joseph Sam. Murrow .. Atoka .... .... .... . Oct.
8, 1844 .
Iowa ... ........... Newton R. Parvin .....Cedar Rapids .. ..•. Jan.
Kansas ...••.•.•••• Albert K. Wilson ..•.•. Topeka ..•....... .. Mar. 17, 1856
8, 1800
Kentucky •••••• •• .• Henry . Ban. Grant ..•.Louisville •......... Oct.
Louisiana •.••••• • •Richard Lambert. ..... New Orleans •.•••. June 20, 1812
1,
1820
Maine ..••••••••••• Stephen Berry . ... .... Portland · . .. • . . . .. .June
Manitoba ..........James A. Ovas .. . •.. . .Wlnnepeg .. • . . . .. .May 12, 1875
Maryland ....••••• William M. Isaac .. • . .Baltimore .•. •..•. . April 11, 1887
Massachusetts. • •• Sereno D. Nickerson .. Boston ...... ,. .. . .Mar. 8, 1777
Michigan .......... Lou B . Winsor ........ Reed City ......... Sept, 17, 1844
Minnesota ......... John Fishel ........... Saint Paul ....... .Feb. 23, 1863
Mlsslsslrpi ........ Frederick Speed ...... Vicksburg ......... July 27, 1818
4, 1821
Mlssour ...... . ....John R. Parson ... . . .. St. Louis ...•.. , ... May
Montana ........... Cornelius Hedges, Jr .. Helena ........... Jan. %4, 1866
Nebraska ..........Francis E. White ..... Omaha .. .... .. ... .Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada ••.••.••••••Chauncey N . NotewareCarson ..•.•.• , ... Jan. 16, 1865
New Brunswick ••• J . Twining Hartt. ... .Saint John .........Oct. 10, 1867
8, 1789
New Hampshlre .... Frank D. Woodbury . .. Concord .......... July
New Jersey ••••• • • Thos. H. R. Redway .. Trenton .......... Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico •••• • • •Alpheus A. Keen .. ,, .. Albuquerque . , ... .A\J&'. 7, 1877
New York .. .•• •••• Edward M. L . Ehlers. New York ........ Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina ..•.John C. Drewry ....... Ralelgh ••.• : ..•••..Dec. 12, 1T77
North Dakota ••••. Frank J. Thompson .•.Fargo ... ••... ..... June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ••••••• Thomas Mowbray .. •• .Halifax ....•.•... Jan. 21, 1866
7, 1808
Ohio .............. John H. Bromwell .....Cincinnati ....... Jan.
Oklahoma •.••••••• James S. Hunt., ...••. Guthrie • ••. . , .....Nov. 10, 1892
Oregon ......... ... James F. Robinson .. ..Eugene ........... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvania .••.•• William A. Sinn ....... Philadelphia ••. ·. . . Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .• N ell MacKelvle ... . ... Summerslde ...... June 24, 1875
Quebec . , ..........Will H . Whyte .....•.Montreal •....•..•. Oct. 20, 1819
Rhode Island ••••• s. Penrose Williams .. Providence .. ••. .. .June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ••••• J . M. Shaw .... ..... ... Regina ............ Aug, 9, 1906
South Carolina •••• Jacob T. Barron . .••.. Columbia . ....• ... Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota • ••• Geo. A. Pettigrew ..... Sioux Falls ....... . July 21, 1776
27, 1813
Tenne~see •..••••.• John B. Garrett. ...... Nashvllle ...•.... . .Dec.
Texas ............. John Watson ......... Houston ...........Dec. 20, 1837
17,
1872
Utah ...•.••••••••• Christopher Diehl .••. Salt Lake City, , .• .Jan.
Vermont ••••..•••••Henry H. Ross ....... Burlington •...... .Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia ...••.••••• Geo. W. Carrington ...Richmond •...•... Oct. 13, 1778
8, 1868
Washington ....... Horace W. Tyler ...... Tacoma ... ......... Dec.
West Virginia ..... Hiram R. Howard ..... Point Pleasant. .... May 11, 1866
Wisconsin ....... .. Wllllam W . Perry ..... Mllwaukee ........Dec. 18, 1843
Wyoming •••••••.••Wm. L . Kuykendall ... Saratoga ..........Dec. 15, 1874

•
FOREIGN GRAND LODGES.
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California.
With Names and Residences of (jraad Secretaries.

Cuba, Grand Lodge of ......••.•. A. Miranda .........•.••... Havana
England, Grand Lodge of ••.••.•• E. Letchworth, F . S .. A .•.... London
Ireland, Grand Lodge of .• .•..... Right Hon. Lord Castletown .. Dublin
New South Wales, United Grandl
Lodge of ................. fAzthur H. Bray •..•.•.... . . Sydney
New Zealand •....•.....•.•...•. Malcolm Niccol •.•••..••. Auckland
Scotland, Grand Lodge of ...•.•. Dave Reid ...•..••...... Edinburgh
South Australia, Grand Lodge of.James H. Cunningham ..... Adelaide
Victoria, Grand Lodge of •... .. . John Braim •..•..•.•.•.. Melbourne

782

Year

1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874.
1875
187~

1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
' 1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
1891
1892
1893
1894
1895

783

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND 0FFIGERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND WDGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

l8TH DAY OF APRIL. A. L. 5851.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

•Jonathan D . Stevenson . . . •John A. Tutt ...... . • •Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt ......• ..... • •Benjamin D. Hyam .• •E. F. W. Ellis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam. . . . . . •Charles M. Radcliff .. •Adolphus Hollub.
•Charles M. Radcliff . ... . . •Townsend A. Thomas •John R. Crandall.
•William H. Howard . .... •Nathaniel G. Curtis .• •Rector E. Cole.
•William H. Howard ..... •Townsend A. Thomas •John A . Raymond.
•William H. Howard ..... •John A Raymond .... . •Lemuel Lyon.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis.·..... •Charles Marsh ...... . •Aaroa D . Park.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W . Shepheard. •William McCormick.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis..... . •Philip W . Shepheard. •Ebenezer Lane.
•Nathaniel G. Curtf11.... . . •Philip W. Shepheard. •William C. Belcher.
•James L. English . ......• •William C. Belcher .. •John W. Harvllle.
•William C. Belcher..... . Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher. .. ... Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •Louis Cohn.
•William C. Belcher. • . . . . Gilbert · B. Claiborne .. William A. Davies.
Gilbert B. Claiborne..... William A. Davies .. . •Isaac S. Titus.
Gilbert B. Claiborne ....• •Henry H. Hartley ... . •Wm. H. Peterson.
William A. Davies .... .. • •Henry H . Hartley .•.. Thomas Beck.
•Charles Marsh ......•••.. •Leonidas E . Pratt. .•• •Theodore G. Cockrill.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ "Isaac S. Titus ....... . •John S. Ward.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac S. Titus ......•. •Charles L . Wiggin.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Charles L.. Wiggin .. . •Benj. H . Freeman.
•Leonidas E. Pratt.. . • . . . . •Ben:t. H . Freeman .. . George C. Perkins.
•Isaac S. Titus. .......... George C. Perkins . . • •John M. Browne.
George C. Perkins . . ...... •John M . Browne .... . •William B. Parker.
•John M. Browne .....•.•• •Charles L. Wiggin . • . Wiley J. Tinnin.
•John M. Browne ...• . ..... · •Charles L. Wiggin .•• William S . Wells.
•John M. Browne . .... . ... •Charles L . Wiggin . . . •William W. Tray10•.
•John M. Browne . .. . . .. . . •William W . Traylor .. William H . Crane.
•William W . Traylor... . .. Sa muel C. Denson ... . •clay w. Taylor.
Samuel C. Denson. ....... •Clay W. Taylor ..... . John Q. Adams.
•ctay w. Taylor. . ..... .. . John Q. Adams ..... . •Jonathan .D. Hines.
•Clay W. Taylor . . . ....... •.ronathan D . Hines .. . Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D . Hines...... Wiley J. Tinnin ..... . Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines ...... Wiley J. Tinnin.: ... . Edmund C. Atkinson.
Wiley J. Tinnin.......... Edmund C . Atkinson . •Hiram N. Rucker.
Edmund C. Atkinson ....• •Hiram N. Rucker . . . . •Morris M. Estee.
•Hiram N. Rucker ....... • •Morris M . Estee .... . •Alva h R. Conklin ..• .
•Morris M. Estee........ . •Alvah R. Conklin . .. . •Willia m Johnston ...
•Morris M. Estee ......... •William .Johnston ... . • Charles R. Gritman.
•Alvah R. Conklin ......... •William Johnston ... . •Charles R. Gritman.
•William Johnston ........ •Charles Ray Gritman. Henry S. Orme.
•Charles R. Gritman . . . . . Henry S. Orme .....• James B. Stevens.
Henry S. Orme........... James B. Stevens .... "Edward M. Preston.
James B . Stevens . .... . . . •Edward M. Preston .• William T. Lucas.
•Edward M. Preston...... William T . Lucas: ..• Thomas Flint.

*Deceased

Junior
Grand Warden.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•

Lecturer.
Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•Sashel Woods .. '. ..... •Levi Stowell .........• •John H. Glhon .... . .•
•Benj. S. Olds ......... •Townsend A . Thomas. •Levi Stowell .........•
•John R . McConnell ... •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell .. . ...... .
•Richard F. Knott. ... •Addison Martin .... .. •Levi Stowell .... . .. . . .
•Robert N. Wood ..... "Addis on Martin .. .... •Levi Stowell .... . . .. . .
•Samuel A . Merritt ... •Addison Martin .. .... •Levi Stowell . .... .. . . .
•Peter W. Randle ... .. •A,ddlson Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ... •. .. .
•John B . Bope .... .. .. •Addison Martin .. .... •Alex. G. Abell .... . .. .
•James W. Bickne ll ... •Addison Martin .. . ... •Alex G. Abell .. ..... .
•Thomas P. H a wley .• •Addison Ma rtin ...... •Alex G. Abell . . .... •.
• Alvlnza Hayward.:.. •Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Caleb E . Wilcoxon ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John B. Hewson ..... •James Laldley . . 1 •.• •• "Alex G. Abell ....... .
William A . Davies ... •James Laldley .. ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... . .
•Isaac S. Titus ........ -.James Laldley . ... . ... •Alex G. Abell .... .. . .
•Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laldley ... . ... . •Alex G. Abell . .. .... .
Thomas Beck .. . . .. . •James Laldley .... .. .. •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Leonidas E . Pratt . ..• •James Laldley ....... . •Alex G. Abell .. ..... .
Frederick F. Barss . .. •James Laldley . .. . .... "Alex G. Abell ... . . .. .
•Richard Dale . ..... .. •James Laldley .. .. . . . . •Alex G. Abell . ...... .
•Benj. H. Freeman .. . •James ~aldley . .... . .. •Alex G . .A'.bell ....... .
Geo. C. Perkins ...... •James Laldley ........ "Alex G. Abell ..... . . .
•John M. Browne ..... •James Laldley . . . ..... •Altx G. Abell ..... . . .
Chas. E . Mitchell .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell . . . .. .. .
Wiley J. Tinnin ...... •.Tames Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell . ...... .
Jacob H . Neff .... . ... •James Laldley .... .... •Alex. G. Abell .. . . . . . .
•Solon W. Craigue .... •James Laldley ... . . ... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
Wm. H . Crane ..... . . •Moses Heller ... ...... •Alex. G. Abell .... . .. .
•Robert C. Broder . . .. •Moses Heller . . . .... . . •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
John Q . Adams ...... •Moses Heller .... . .... •Alex. G. Abell ..... . . .
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller . ........ "Alex. G. Abell . ... ... .
•Thomas .r. Bowers .. . •Moses Heller ...... ... •Alex. G. Abell . . .. . .. .
•George Hinds .... •. .. •Moses Heller ... ...... •Alex. G. Abell .... ... .
•Hiram N . Rucker .... •Moses Heller ....... . . •Alex. G. Abell .. . . ... .
•Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ..... .. .
•Henry H. Knapp . .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Alvah R . Conklin .... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .... . .. .
•Wm. Johnston .... .. . •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .... . . . .
•Marcus D. Boruck ... •Nathan W. Spa ulding. •Alex . G. Abell . . .. . .. .
Henry S. Orme ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex . G. Abell . .. . .. . .
Henry S. Orme ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. George Johnson . .... .
James B . Stevens . ... •Nathan W. Spouldlng. George Johnson ..... .
"Edward .M. Preston . . •Nathan W . Spaulding. George Johnson . . ... .
Wm. T . Lucas. .. . ... Edward Coleman. .. . . George Johnson . . . .. .
Thomas Flint . . . . . . . . Edward Coleman.. . . . George Johnson . . . .. .
Frank M. Ang ello tti.. Edward Coleman..... . George Johnson ... .. .

*DeceaEed.

Grand
Lecturer.

784

785

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND 0FFlcERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M.·. W. ·.GRAND. LODGE OF CALIFORNIA '

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 585 L.

Year.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

Junior
Grand Warden.

1896
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
1902
1903
1904
1905
1906
1907

William T. Lucas ....... .
Thomas Flint ... . ......... .
Frank M. Angellotti. .... .
Charles L. Patton .......•
James A. Foshay ........ .
William S. Wells ........ ,
Orrin S. Henderson ..... .
Charles W. Nutting . .... .
George W. Hunter .. .... .
Mot1ey H. Flint. . . . .. ... .
Edward H. Hart. ....... .
George M. Perine . ...... .

Thomas Flint. ...... .
Frank M. Angellotti ..
Charles L. Patton .•..
James A. Foshay ... ..
William S. Wells .... .
Orrin S. Henderson ..
Charles W. Nutting ..
George W. Hunter .. .
Juotley H. Flint .... ..
Edward H. Hart ...•.
Geo. M. Perine . . .. .. .
Reuben H. Lloyd .... .

Frank M. Angellotti.
Charles L. Patton.
James A. Foshay.
William S. WAils.
Orrin S. Henderson.
Charles W. Nutting.
George W . Hunter.
Motley H. Flint.
Edward H. Hart.
George M. Perine.
Reuben H. Lloyd.
Oscar Lawler.

Charles L. Patton ....
James A. Foshay .....
Wllllam S . Wells .....
Orrin S . Henderson ...
Charles W. Nutting ..
George W. Hunter . ..
Motley H . Flint . .. ...
Edward H. Hart. .. . .
George M. Perine . . ..
Reuben H. Llo.,d .....
Oscar Lawler.........
William F. Pierce ....

•Deceased.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary

Edward Coleman ..... George Johnaon .....•
Edward Coleman . . ... George Johnson ...•..
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ....•.
Edward Coleman .. .. . George Johnson ....••
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ..••..
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson .. , ...
Edward Coleman ... .. George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson . . ....
Edward Coleman ... . . George Johnson ......
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ....•.
Edward Coleman ..... George Johnson ..... .
Edward Coleman .. . .. George Johnson . .. ...
•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Thomas
Baker.

J:

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR

The Year Commencing October, A L. 5907.

:I

M.". w:. GEo. M. PERINE ........ .. Grand Master ...... . San Frandsco;
R.". w:. REUBEN H. LLOYD ........ Dep. Gr. Master ..... San Francisco;
R.". w:. OSCAR LAWLER .........• . Sen. Gr. Warden ... . Los Angeles;
R.". w:. WILLIAM F. PIERCE .... .. Jun. Gr. Warden . ... San Francisco;
v:. w:. EDWARD CoLEMAN • ••••••• Grand Treasurer .... San Francisco;
v:. w:. GEo. JOHNSON .......... . Grand Secretary .... . San Francisco;
v:. w:. THOMAS J. BAKER .•.•••• Grand Lecturer .... :.san Francisco;
V. ·. R . ·. ERNEST E . BAKER ........ Grand Chaplain . .... Oakland;
w:. JACOB NIETO ..•• . .•.•.•••• Grand Orator ....... San Francisco;
w:. HARRY S. JoHNSON·....... Asst. Gr. Sec'ty ..... San Francisco;
w:. WILLIAM KETTNER....... . Grand Marshal. .... . San Diego;
w:. CHAUNCEY C. BusH . .... . Gr. Bible Bearer ..... Redding;
w:. ALBERT B. WEBSTER ...... Gr. Stan'd Bearer ... Oakland;
w:. EMANUEL J. Louis ....... Gr. Sword Bearer ... San Diego;
w:. Dnos W. _SMYTHE ....... Sen. Gr. Deacon .. .. .. San Jose;
w:. ADAM BROWN ........... .Tun. Gr. Deacon .... . Arroyo Grande;
w:. JAMES C. ENSIGN ....... . Sen. Gr. Steward ... . Hanford;
w:. FRED W. VAN SrcKLEN .. . Jun. Gr. Steward ... . Alameda;
W. ·. JosHUA D. TucKER ...... Grand Pursuivant ... Honolulu, H. T.;
W. ·. SAMUEL D. MAYER ....... Grand Organist ...... San Francisco;
w... GEO. P. ADAMS • ......... G;and Tyler....... .. San Francisco.
1

,,

ROSTER
OF THE

SUBORDINATE LODGES
UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE

Grand Lodge of California
FOR TIIE: YEAR ENDING JULY 31, A. L. 5907,
WITH OFFICERS FOR 5908.

CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 1.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, First Th!lrsday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Francis Valent'e Keesling, Master, Arthur Morris Flood, Jun. Deacon,
Hans Theo. Henning, Sen. Warden, Paul Milton Downing, Marshal,
Daniel E. F. Eastoa, Jun. Warden, Harvey Arrington Marvin, Steward,
Aug. Herrmann Muller, Treasurer, Edwin Curtis Young, Steward,
Franklin Henry Day, Secretary,
Samuel David Mayer, Organist,
Wm. Charles Hassler, Sen. Deacon, Geo. Perrin Adams, Tyler.
Abbott, William Martin
Adair, Charles James
Adams, Charles Hitchcock
Adams," George Perrin
Adams, Henry Willis
Ahman, Amandus
Alderson, Harry Everett
Alexander, William Stanley
Allison, Edward Ralston
Ames, George Elias
Archer, Albert Sayres
Archer, James, Jr.·
Ascroft, Henry, P. M.
Avery, William Henry

MEMBERS:
Babcock, John Pease
Bachelder, Charles Sumner
Backman, Gotthard Sigismund
Bailey, Charles Arthur
Baker, Charles Henry
Baldwin, Frederick Albert
Bannister, Alfred
Barbier, Howard Frederic
Baum, David Andrew
Ba11meister, Bernhardt H 11rmann
Beanston, George Alexander
Beanston, Wallace Hall
Bell, William Troup
Bengtson, John

4
·Ben~ett, George Edward
Benso'n, John Adelbert
Binning, Charles
Birdsall, Ernest Stratton
Black, Howard
Black, Orlow
Blake, Alfred Edward
Blakiston, Duncan George
Bliss, Walter Danforth
Blossom, Henry Eckford
Bocarde, George Uriah
Bocarde, James Blain
Bogart, Sewall Butma~
Boggs, Angus Gordon
Bonner, Andrew
Boobar, James Guptill
Boole, Fred Warren
Bouse, John
Boxton, Charles
Bradbury, Alfred William
Bragg, Robert
Brice, William
Bridge, William Edward
Brink, Charles Henry
Brittan, Nathaniel Jones
Brittingham, Elisha Franklin
Bromley, George Tisdale, P. M.
Brown, Albert Webster .
Brown, Andrew Washington
Brown, Herbert Flint
BroWn, Jo3·~ph Anthony
Brown, Roland Gair
Brown, William Anderson
Brumagim, Mark
Buckbee, Samuel Griggs
Burden, Wilson
Burkhart, Henry Zadoc
Burnet, Henry Melnott
Burns, Robert, Jr.
Busse, Frank Adolf
Cannell, Samuel Bartley
Carles, Honwe Romolo
Carson, George Ryckman
Caswell, Marion F.
Cates, William Everett

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Caverly, LeRoy Eugene
Chamberlin, William Daniel
Chandler, Charles Strother
Chapman, Albert Jules
Chaquette, Camille Adams
Childs, George, P. M.
Christenson, Edwin Axel
Clark, Edward Joseph
Clark, John Franklin
Cline, Cecil Cephas
Cline, Henry Augustus, P. M.
Clough, Theodore Neilson
Cobb, William Lewis
Cochell, John Thomas
Coffee, Ernest Haquette
Cogswell, James Lafayette, P . M.
Cole, Percy John
Coles, Charles Petley
Colter, Arthur Newton
Comstock, John Felt Osgood
Coningham, Grove
Conlisk, Charles William
Coppage, John Clark
Corbus, Adam William
Corbus, John Parker
Cornwall, Bruce
Cox, Frank Van Ness
Coxhead, Almeric W. Sylvester
Craig, Homer Theodore
Crim, William Henry
Crocker, Henry Joseph
Crocker, William, P. M.
Crocker, William Henry
CrotheN, George Edward
Crothers, Thomas Graham
Culverwell, Richard Stephen, P. M.
Cummings, Walter Bailey
Cunhingham, Arthur George
Cunningham, John Francis
Gushing, Fr~nk Worthy, P M.
Daggett, John Randolph
Dall, Peter Peterson
Dallam, Fred Boothby
Dalton, Franklin
Dalton, Thomas Benton

•

• •

Dam, Francis Herbert
Davis, Charles Frederick
Davis, Harold Edgeworth
Davis, Milo Smith
Day, Franklin Henry, P. M.
Dayton, Walter Stewart
DeConinck, Frank Camille
Deering, Thomas Patrick
Degen, Walter
Detrick, Henry Lyster
Dewey, Daniel L.
Dewey, William Pierce
Dickinson, John Henry, P. M.
Dietterle, George, P. M.
Dingwall, George Isabel
Dixon, John
Doble, William Ashton
Dobler, Charles
Dodd, Willis Gorman
Dohrmann, William Charles
Dorn, Diademus Socrates
Dougherty, Charles Medley, P. M.
Dow, George Edwin
Dow, Wallace Hanscom
Dowling, Thomas Henry
Downing; Paul Milton
Drake, Frank Babbitt
Drake, Robert Morris
Driscoll, Daniel Oliver
Duffie, Christopher Wilson
Dunker, John Adolph
Dunn, James
Earl, Sumner Fremont
Easton, Ansel Mills
Easton, Daniel Elisha Foote
Eastwood, Joseph
Eckart, William Roberts
Eddy, Richard A.
Edwards, Frederick Jay
Edwards, Rodney Miller
Edwards, Thomas Miller
Effinger, John Henry
Eisenmann, Philip Joseph
Eitel, Erlward Everett
Elliot, John P.

Elwert, Charles Philip
Erlin, George Edwin
Etting, Charles William
Etting, William August
Everett, Oliver
Everett, Wallace Washburn
Ewart, David Fraser
Farley, Walter Hawthorne
Farnsworth, Millard Allen
Farquharson, David
Ferguson, Tilghman Howard
Feusier, Clarence Louis
Fiege, Arthur Conrad
Finck, Julius
Firth, Joseph Kirk
Fish, Edward Nye
Fisher, W. Charles Henry
Flagg, William Henry
Fletcher, Thomas
Flood, Arthur Morris
Fonda, William Thomas, P. M.
Forbes, William Henry
Foy, Charles William
Frank, John
Franklin, Max John
Fraser, Hugh
Fredericks, George
Fulcher, Charles Nelson
Gantner, John Oscar
Gardner, Samuel James
Garibaldi, Stephen Joseph
Gawne, Walter Whitfield
Gehret, Frederick
Geilfuss, Carl
Gere, George Grant, P. M.
Gibson, James Spaulding
Gillson, John
Givens, James David
Glass, Louis, P. M.
Gleason, George Ruggles
Golcher, Henry Coughlin
Golcher, William James, P. M.
Graff, Ulrich
Graham, Gerald Oakeley
Granz, Charles Henry

5

6

ROSTER. ·

Grau, Louis Henry
Gray, George Freeman
Gray, Harry Nathaniel
Gray, Robert Brockhouse
Green, Charles Ernest
Greenhood, Hugo Oscar
Grier, Arthur Jay
Griffith, John Beruth
(friflith, John Wesley
Grimes, George Lyman, P. M.
Hackett, Francis Marion, P. M.
Hagmaier, Charles
Haight, Robert Fletcher
!fall, Norman Freeman
Hall, Robert
Halsey, Theodore Vail
Hamilton, Hiram Milton
Hammer, William Hollingsworth
Hand, William Mulford
Hanssen, Olaf Jorgen
Harrelson, William Hasting
Harrison, Alvin Benjamin
Harrison, Samuel Ingleby
Haseltine, Charles Woodward
Hassler, William Charles
Hatch, Robert Denison
Haven, Charles Dwight
H:iyward, Henry Martin
Heald, Edward Payson
Hedstrom, Bernard
Helen, Richard
Helm, William James
Helman, Gilbert Wayne
Henderson, · Thomas Louden
Henning, Hans Theodore
Henry, George Jackson, Jr.
Herrington, Charles Howell
Heuer, George Frederick
Heyer, William Christopher
Heywood, William Brewer
Hickei, Oscar Herbert
Hills, Ernest Herbert, P. M.
Hilton, Joseph Henry
Hinton, Arthur William
Hoffman, Henry Nathaniel

Hoffman, John
Hoitt, Ralph Howland
Holt, Cyril Edward
Holzheid, Armin Rudolph
Hood, George
Hopkins, Mathrw Leander
Hosmer, Harrie Bordley
Houghton, Robert Otis
Howard, Charles Webb
Howard, Horace Pember
Howard, Horace Zerah
Howard, Joseph Louis
Hubbard, Hrnry Ualvin
Hubbard, Thomas Jay
Huested, Orson Justus
Huff, Abram
Hufschmidt, George Frederick
Hunt, John Hosford
Hunt, Richard Hosford
Hunt, William Black
Hunter, Robert Aitchison
Itsell, Andrew Jackson
Jacoby, Julius Herman
James, Albert Charles
James, Frank
Jeffers, Milo Sidney
Jenner, Charles Kirkham
Jessup, John DeLamater
Johnson, Charles Orrick
Johnson, Ernest Lincoln L.
Johnson, George, P. M.
Johnson, Mathias
Johnson, Roosevelt
Johnston, Charles Robert
Jones, Edward Kirkland
Jones, Henry Isaac
Kahles, Frank
Keesling, Francis Valentine
Kelso, John
Kemp, John Henry
Kerrell, Albert George Daw
Kimble, Liston
King, Joseph Libbey
Kingsbury, George William
Kinne, Charles Mason

ROSTER.

• •
~

•

•

•

;

• •

..

Kinsey, Charles Caswell
Kirk, Robert
Kirkpatrick, Tho1:11as
Kittredge, Ralph Bell
. Klein, John Edward
Kline, James Joseph
Knight, Edward Dexter
Knight, George Alexander
Knighton, Robert
Koenig, Frank
Koenig, Gustav William
Kohler, Henry
Kreeger, Charlee Strouse
Kuehn, George Washington
Kuehn, Victor August
LaGrange, Millard Fillmore
Lake, Edward Hills
Lamb, Thomas Jackson
Landers, John
Landgrebe, Robert George
Larken, James Frederic
Lathrop, Charles Leonard
Lawson, Andrew
Lee, John, Jr.
Leinhardt, John
Libby, Warren Thompson
Likens, James William
Litchfield, Joseph Miller
Locke, Hollis Maine
Long, Seely Frederick
Lorton, Frederick Douglas
Low, Joseph Coolidge
Low, Thomas Griffin
Lyon, William Henry, P. M.
Lyons, James Henry
Mackay, Walter Sh\rlaw
Madden, Wilkes Cuyler
Madison, Henry Bennett
Malmgren, Niles Peter
Mann, Azro Levi
Marshutz, Leon Charles
Martell, Harry Gaylord
Martin, James Christopher
Martin, Minor Silas
Martin, Robert Samuel

Marvin, Frank William
Marvin, Harvey Arrington
.~farvin, Harvey LeFevTe
Marye, George Thomas
Matheson, Duncan
Mathews, George Sumner
Matthews Arthur Wellington
Mau, William Frederick
Maxwell, Harry Jennings
Mayer, Samuel David
Maynard, James, Jr. ,
Mayo, Henry Browne
McCollister, William Morse
McConkey, Thoma.s Graham
Mccurdy, Daniel
McFarlane, Peter Dunn
McKay, James Finlay
McKee, Joseph Claybaugh, P. M.
McLean, Neil A.
McMillan, Robert, P. M.
McNaught, John
McNear, George Washington
McWilliams, John Adam
Meigs, Anson Woodman
Merrill, John Francis
Merrill, John Sroufe
Mersing, George Julius Martin
Merl.o n, Lewis Burrell
Milling, William
Mills, Frederick Clinton
Mills, William Lucas Bisset
Mitchell, John Samuel
Moore, Andrew
Moore, Charles Cadwell
Moore, Charles Parker
Moore, Robert S.
Moore, William Lewis
Hoormann, Julius Christe11cn
Morehouse, George Wilbur
Morey, Ellwood Perry
Morrison, William Hamilton
Morrow, William Stuart
Morton, Julius Wetzlar
Muller, Adolphe
Muller, August Herrmann

7

8

ROSTER.

Munch, Robert
Murdock, George Leonard
Murgatroyd, Ben
iv! urschel, AJbel'-~
Nagel, Louis Mortimer
Neal, Charles Sanders
Nelson, Benjamin Henry
Nelson, Elmer Ellsworth
Nelson, James Brown
Newell, William Harold, Jr.
Newlands, John Cassell
Newman, George Howard
Newton, George Francis
Nickerson, Frank William
Niggle, John George
Noteware, Edward Washington
Olsen, William
Ormond, John Allyn
Orne, William Henry
Otersen, Herman
Ouer, Frede~ick Frank
Owens, Henry Morgan, P. M.
Palmer, Brooks
Parker, Harvey Drury
Patton, Charles Lewis, P. G. M.
Payne, George Lingard
Payne, Warren Ritch
Peabody, Edward, P. M.
Peabody, Edward William, P M .
Pendergast, James Albert
Perkins, Thomas Allen
Perrin, Howard Elmer
Peters, James Frank
Peterson, Howard Bertram
Pettis, William Henry
Pfaeffie, Robert William
Phelps, Charles David
Phillips, William Rippard
Pierce, William Byron
Platt, Horace Garvin
Plevin, James Ralph
Plincz, John Karol
Plum, Charles Mortimer, P. M.
Plummer, Alvin
Porter, Abel Willard

Powers, Frank H.
Queisser, Alexander
Ralph, Burlington K.
Ramsdell, Harry Vinton
Rasmussen, Peter
Rasor, David Walter
Redding, Frederick Grant
Reed, Wallace Weller
Reid, James William
Reid, Merritt Jonathan
Renner, George
Renstrom, Frank Oscar
Richardson, Ernest James
Richardson, George Horatio
Rickon, Frederic J. Henry, P. M.
Ridley, Arthur Ernest Brooke
Riess, John William
Robb, Frank
Robertson, John Prince
Robison, Ansel Cobb
Robison, Merritt David
Roes, John Edward Albert
Roller, Charles August
Rolls, John Percy
Rolph, Clarence Athol
Rolph, James, Jr.
Rolph, Joseph William
Ross, Donald
Rowell, Leonard Freeland
Rulofson, Alfred Currie
Runyon, Albert James
Russell, Alexander
Russell, John Elisha, P. M.
Ryan, Michael
Scheide, William Cornell
Schiegner, Frederick Nelson
Schlott, Ernest Frederick
Schmidt, Louis
Scott, Harry Sweet
Scott, Walter Amos, P. M,
Scovel, George Scofield
Searle, James John
Searles, Dennis
Shannon, Guy Stuart
Sharp, Arthur Maxwell

ROSTER.

•

• •

••

Tisdale, Robert Francis
Sim, Walter Berry
Simmons, Haydn Mozart
Titchworth, Casper
Sinn, John George
Tolmie, Robert Currie
Slack, Charles William
Tompkins, Minthorne Mortimer
Slater, John Charles
Towne, Arthur Gowing
Slocum, Clinton Dodge
Townsend, George Elliot
Smith, Francis
Trephagen, William Arthur
Smith, Frank
Turner, Alfred Joseph
Smith, Harry Gardiner
Umbsen, Henry Philip, P. M.
Smith, Henry Alexander
Unger, Adolph
Unger, Milton Edwin
Smith, Herbert
Upham, Benjamin Prince
Smith, James D.
Upham, Isaac Oliver
Smith, Lester Baylies
Van Bergen, Henry
Smith, Selden Cornelius
Vance, Ira Lincoln
Smith, William Jacob
Vanderlip, Harry Franklin
Soule, Art.hur Calvin
Van Lu ven, Hermon
Soule, Milan
Varian, Henry
Spear, Arthur Whipple
Vaughan, Hiram G.
Spiller, George Weldon
Vogel, •Edward John
Spruance, John
Von Staden, George
Stadtfeld, Jacob
Von Tillow, Ward Wright
Stadtfeld, William Benedict
Wadsworth, Charles Curtiss
Staley, Frank Newton
Walbey, Bertie Robert Cecil
Staliman, Charles Christian
Walker, Isaac Cushman
Stanford, William Estell
',\'alker, James Greig
Stange, Walter John
Walker, Shirley Cyrus
Starbird, Albion Wilson
·Walsh, Vincent Sanders
Steers, Edward Everett
Etevens, William Emer~on (L. A.) Wapple, Albert Michael
Stevens, W1J.liam Emer~on (B. F.) Watson, John Park
Watters, James Arthur
Stevenson, Edward Alexander
Weber, Adolph Hans
Stock, Edward Richard
Weeks, John Allard, Jr.
Stout.enburgh, Edgar Charles
Weil, John Perez
Sudden, Robert
Wells, George Prescott
Sutherland, Fred Barrington
Wentz, John Joseph
Swasey, Edgar Marshall
West, Robert Bachman
Swears, William Bernard
West, Thomas Christopher
Swinerton, William Arthur
Westerfeld, Otto Ferdinand
Taylor, Albert Miles
Wheaton, Milton Alverd
Taylor, Charles Little
Wheelan, Fairfax Henry
Taylor, Henry Huntly
White, George Knight, P. M.
Taylor, Thomas Hardin
White, Ralston Lovell
Thomas, Edward William
Whitely, Henry Mallard
Thompson, Frederick William
Whitney, John Biackett
Tin~al, James Watson

9

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

10

Whittle, Henry
Wiborn, J. Auburn
Wilkie, Andrew
\vilkie, Andrew, Jr.
Wilkie, Francis Alexander
Wilkin!!, James Malcolm
Will, Frederick Adolph
Willard, William Patten
Willcox, Raymond Hawkins, P. M.
Williams, Harry Alston
Williams, William Ralston
Williams, William Robert
Willman, Alexander, P. M.
Wilson, William Archibald
Winants, Newell
Wirtner, John Jacob

Wisewell, Charles Arthur
Witham, H eber William
Wood, Louis Earl
Woodbury, Warren Dean
W oodsum, Oliver Perry
Wray, Samuel
Wright, Alvin Henri
Wright, Charles William
Wright, Cyrus Smith
Wulzen, John Frederick
Yates, Charles Morris, Jr.
Yates, William Frederick
Young, Edwin Curtis
Young, George Herbert
Young, Shirley Trever
Youngberg, Charles John
-600.

•

•
I

•

WITHDRAWN:
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Powell, John Milton

Hauxhurst, Samuel Weeks
Hill, Isaac Leroy
Howes, Cyrus Pierce
Jones, William Roderick
King, William Henry
McDonald, James Monroe

Wakefield, Franklin Webster
Wright, George
DIED:
Nelson, William Henry
Rundell, William Mason
Strong, George Josiah
Wescott, Otis Harten
Wilson, Charles D.
Wolters, Henry Joseph

WESTERN STAR LODGE, No. 2.
Shasta, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Briceland Cooper Blair, Master,
Richard Bruce Ross, Sen. Deacon,
Grant Alf'd Schroter, Sen. Warden, Michael R. Newman, Jun. Deacon,
August Tillman, Jun. Warden,
Geo. Wm. Sevenman, Marshal,
Lloyd Lee Carter, Treas1<rer,
Ralph Ingram, Steward,
Wm. Abraham Speak, Secretary,
Francis Flynn, Steward,
Abraham Lincoln Parson, Chaplain, Everett French Crocker, Tyler.

•

..

MEMBERS:
Ingram, Ralph
Affeltranger, Ferdenand
Alexander, John
Jahde, William
Andrew, William
Jol).nson, Andrew
Anger, Robert Nelson
Joses-, Charles Frederick
Baker, William Henry
Kerr, Francis Emmitt
Balch, John Adrian
Lamus, Nelson Edward, P. M.
Bickford, William Henry
Leatch, Allen Mebius
Blair, Briceland Cooper
Limtaugh, Nathanial
Macdonald, Andrew
Bossyns, John
Marx, Frederick L.
Boswell, William Alexander
. Manning, Lemuel Sargent
Brown, Charles Eugene, P. M.
Merrill, Ira
Bums, Charles James
Mindowmau, John Herman
Buscomb, William Henry
Moulter, Frank Erastus
Bystle, Adolph, P. M.
Moore, Forest
Carter, Lloyd Lee
Mudd, Harry Peacock
Chandler, Edward Augustus
McDonald, Luke
Cole, Willard Leonard
McDonald, Bernard
Crocker, Everet French
McDonald, Peter
Cushing, Horato W eska
Mills, Edwa:r:d James
Dameron, Paul Eugene
Murrish, Harry T.
Davidson, Harry
Newman, Michael Roush
Davis, James A.
Ni<'hols, Thomas William
Davis, George Miller
Norton, Charles
Davis, Thomas
Neilson, Thomas
Donaldson, Fay
Nightwine, Martin Elmer
Eaton, Elvis Newton
Obradovich, Samuel Milo
Failing, Ottis Claud
Overmeyer, Charles Edwin
Flynn, Francis
Patterson, Alexander
Forbes, William Burton
Parsons, Abraham Lincoln
French, John Alexander
Reagan, ,James
Gardner, John William
Recarno, John D.
Gibson, Charles Francis
Richarnson, James Lee, P. M.
Gillispie, Adam
Reel, Louis
Graham, Albert
Rosevear, Samuel ·John
Grant, Angus
Reinhaus, Gustave
Grant, Edgar McLean
Roeder, George John
Green, Horace Weir
Rosenberg, Samuel
Green, Thomas
Ross, Richard Bruce
Hampton, Wade
Ross, Alfred Marshall
Harrington, John Cornelius
Rountree, Henry Searle
Hodgkin, William Moore
Satterlee, Frank Peck, P. M.
Hoyle, John Elkanp,h
Schilke, James W.
Hovle, Rrnben
Shuffelton, Hugh Hall
Hudson, Harry Charles

11

12

ROSTER.

Strode, John Sale
Sweeny, Edward, P. M
Seineke, Frank George
Schroter, Grant Alfred, P. M.
Sevenman, George William
Smith, Henry Lee
Smiley, James Andrew
Strode, George Crone
Swanson, John August
Speak, William Abraham, P. M.
Shaw, Joseph James
Terry, John Jo~e
Tease, Chester James
Thompson, James

ROSTER.

Thomas, David
Travers, James Arthur
Tillman, August
Tucker, James Edward
Weil, Joseph, P. M.
Willson, Frederick Eaton
Wood, Beverly Walter
White, John Wesley
Webster, Charles Edward
Weinstrom, John Oscar
Yelland, Edward
Young, Edward L.
Young, William Bradley

.
-115.

WITHDRAWN:
Meisner, Alva Anson
Patterson, Frank
Simon, John Goodwin

Boswell, Andrew Jackson
Radulovieh, Christopher

DIED:
Byrne, John
Warfield, Robert

TEHAMA LODGE, No. 3.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings first Monday in each month
OFFICERS:
Louis David Ehret, Master,
Halleck Hart Look, Sen. Deacon,
Louis Geiger, Senior Warden,
H. A. W. Lindgreen, Jun. Deacon,
John Mclndeor, Jun. Warden,
John Wesley Warren, Marshal,
Wm. Ohmer Girardey, Treasurer, Louis Reignhardt Plate, Steward,
Theo. Jones Milliken, Secretary,
Henry Harrison McLain, Steward,
Robert Oscar Cravens, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arnold, John Henry
Bass, Edward Franklin
Banvard, Louis Howell
Bath, William
Barrett, Isaac Thomas
Baughman, Wm. Elias John, P. M.
Barton, Charles 'lhomas, P. M.
Bell, Robert Orren
Barton, James Nichols
Bergna, Peter

•

Birt, William Randolph
Bittancourt, Thomas Maria, P. M.
Black, John Alexander
Blue, Myron Hooker
Bradley, Allan Cormack
Briggs, Wallace Alvin
Brown, Charles Manning
Brown, Egbert Alfred
Brown, Simeon
Burgess, Alfred Llewellyn
Burnett, Augustus
Burns, Charles Victor
Carlson, Charles Alfred
Carmichael, Daniel Webster
Carpenter, Richard Julius, P. M.
Caselli, Ansono
Champlin, N elsoh
Chapman, George Warren
Church, William Smithers
Chrisman, Elmer Judson
Clarke, Joseph Marshall
Clemons, William Strong
Copelin, Thomas Edward
Cravens, Robert Oscar, P. M.
Cuthbert, William Williams
Davis, William Buckley, P. M.
Davis, William Hewson, P. M.
Davisson, Downing Baugh
DeCoe, Culver Adam
Derman, George Lewis
Derman, William Frederick
Dodge, John Harry
Donald, William A.
Dresher, Valentine
Drew, Warren Francis
Driver, Grant Simpson
Driver, Philip Sample, P. M.
Ehret, Louis David
Eilers,' Theodore George
Ellick, Joseph Charles
Ernst, Cuno August
Fetterly, George Isaiah
Fisch, Willard Fred
Fisher, Henry, Jr.
Foye, William Robinson Smith

Frommelt, Hugo
Futhey, James Allen
Geeslin, John William, P. M,
Geiger, John Henry
Geiger, Louis
Gett, William Andrew
Girardey, William Ohmer, P. M.
Givens, Charles Stuart
Goss, Charles Richard
Goulden, James
Halley, Walter
·Harper, Horatio Thomas
Harper, Thomas
Harvey, Robert Alfred
Haub, John
Hawk, Elbridge LaFayette, P. M.
Hawk, Owen Dowd
Hayden, John Burt
Hayden, John Henry
Haynes, Edward
Heck, John ,
Heilbro·n,, Irving Louis
Heintzelman, Taylor Washington
Reisen, Harry
Hill, William
Hintze, Emil Frederick
Hite, Clifton Stimmel
Hooper, Harry Greenough
Hopkins, Stephen Irving
Hotchkiss, Frederick Spencer
Hubbard, Cyrus Hayden
Hughes, Eugene J.
Hunt, Clarence Miller
Hyman, Daniel
Ikin, Arthur John
Jackman, Samuel Hason
Jackson, William Franklin
James, George Somerset
James, Joseph William
Johnson, August Galmer
Kimbrough, Richard Oscar
Kincaid, Elbert Sevier
King, George Thomas
Knox, William Frederick
Lewis, Leonidas Lee

13

•

Lindgreen, Henry August W.
Littlefield, Lewis Bateman
Littlefield, Lewis Bunch
Look, Halleck Hart
Love, Andrew Campbell
Martin, James Thureton, P. M.
Mayhew, Leonard Thomas
McAnear, Samuel Francis
McClain, Donald
McClain, Henry Harrison
McIIldeor, John
McMaster, James Curtin
Merrell, Isaac Lambert
Miller, Frank Fargo
Milliken, Theodore Jones, P. M.
Morris, Isidor Frederick
Nathan, Myron Sol
Nathan, Solomon Gottlieb
Overmyer, Frank Elmer
Pearson, John Lewis
Philip, Robert
Pike, John Elias Tucker
Plate, Louis Reignhardt
Pomeroy, Charles Harrington
Poorman, Samuel
Potter, Lyme M.
Prentiss, Charles Frederic
Ralph, Charles Southward
Richmond, Thomas Hugh
Riley, David Bo1and
Reuter, Carl Henry
Roberts, John Henry
Roblin, Frederick Albert, P.
Rohrer, Frederick William
Ross, Frank Andrew
Ruhstaller, Frank
Rumage, Otto
Schadt, Frederick William
Schaumloffel, William
Scheunert, Carl Emil

"M!

Briggs, Alfred

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

14

Schwartz, Charles August
Schwartz, Clemens William
Schwartz, Edward Jacob
Scott, Thomas Jamee
Sim, Edgar William
Sim, William Wellox, P. M.
Skelton, John
Sonne, Andrew Christian
Spurlock, Ernest
Stanton; Perrin, P. M.
Steinman, Irving Leland
Stober, Frederick Conrad, P. M.
Stoll, Benjamin Franklin
Strader, Harvey Winton
Sturmer, Simon Charles
'faylor, Arthur Bloom
Teeter, John Kenney
Thirkield, Frank Lytle, P. M.
'fhompson, James Ellsworth, P. M.
Todd, John William
Tubbs, Henry Osmond
Ulp, Alfred
Vermilya, Abram John, P. M.
·vermilya, Abram John, Jr.
Waller, William John
Walther, William Rudolph
Warren, John Wesley, P. M.
Washbrun, Waldo Abisha
Weinreich, Charles Edward
Wertheimer, Bert L.
White, Stephen Arthur Douglas
Whited, Jerry Hinchman
Wight, Albert Harrison
Wilson, Thomas
Wood, Thomas
Woodburn, Charles Gabriel
Woodward, George Allen
Wratten, James Edward
Wright, Henry Eugene
Wright, John Melvin
-180

DIED:
Ferriter, Thomas
Johnston, Alfred J.

15

BENICIA LODGE, No. 5.
Benicia, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
~

OFFICERS:
Oi

•

a

I

11

Eugene Carrol 'Stevens, Master,
Henry Kirk White, Sen. Deacon,
Fred'k G. Fitzgerald, Sen. Warden, Jos. Severino Giubbini, Jun. Deacon,
Rasmus Hansen Kerr, Jun. Warden, Edwin Estey, Jfarshal,
Sidney Frame, Treasurer, ·
John Blues Wilkie, Steward,
John R. B. Chisholm, Secretary,
Constantine P. Donegan, Steward,
Isaac Dawson, Chaplain,
Phillip Jacob Troutwine, Tyler,

•

MEMBERS:
Fox, William
Frame, Sidney
Fraser, John Robert
Frasier, John, P. M.
Freeman, James Albert
Freeman, Otis Kimball, P. M.
Friedman, Abraham Lincoln
J<'riedman, Nathaniel William
Furbush, George Ernest, P. M.
Giubbini, Joseph Severino
Gnauck, Gustav
Gnnnard, Frank
Harrison, Percy
Hart, David Marion
Hertzburn, Herman
Johnson, Joseph Green
Johnston, Simon
Kerr, Rasmus Hansen
King, William
Kullman, Herbert
Kullman, Jacob
Latchem, Edward Caleb
Macdonald, James Edward
MacGregor, Robert Roy
Martin, Albar 'lamtik
Martinsen, Neils
McArthur, Murdock·
McKay, Alexander
McKay, George Arthur
McKay, Thomas, P •. M.

Allen, John
Anderson, Edmunu Rudolph
Austin, Burr Dale
Bahler, August
Billings, Elmore Myron, P. M.
Brower, William Charles
Browne, George Cecil
Cambis, Emanuel
Cereda, Dominico
Chambers, Edwin Thomas
Chisholm, John R. Brown, P. M.
Christiansen, Thomas
Coleman, Warden Victor
· Coleman, William Joel
Cooper, Lawrence William
Cooper, Luther Blake
Cowley, William Ashline
Crooks, William Lowell
Dalton, Alfred, Jr.
Dawson, Isaac
De Forest, John, P. M.
De La Rue, Robert Edwin
DinfUJlore, Luther
Donegan, Constantine Paul
Emmons, Frank Fletcher
Esperance, Blaise
Estey, Edwin, P. M.
Evans, Mark
Filer, Samuel John
Fitzgerald, Frederick Gerald

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

16
McKay, Thomas Sumner
McKay, William Daniel
McKenna, John Paul
McKenzie, James Buchanan
McLean, John A.
Morton, Elijah
Muller, Konrad
Olsen, Oscar H.
O'Nei~l, Martin William
Parritt, Alvin Stone, P. M.
Ra:ffetto, Luigi
Rankin, Simon George
Regan, John
Roberts, William
Robinson, Phillip Archibald
Ruege1, Godfrey
Rummelsburg, Adolph
Salz, Ansley Kullman, P. M.
Salz, Moses Kullman
Sanborn, Joseph Lewis
Schmidt, WHliam John
Schn~ider, George
Seaman, Alexander Welby

TUOLUMNE LODGE, No. 8.

Shattuck,. Frank Bachelder
Sherburne, John Shepard
Singler, Otto Herman
Smith, James Ambrose
Spence, Robert W.
Stevens, Eugene Carrol
Stewart, Charles
.
Trautz, Otto George, P. M.
Troutwine, Phillip Jacob
Wagoner, John Ellis
Walker, Revello Monroe
Walker, Walter Frederick
Watson, Daniel Mitchell, P. M.
Weinmann, Frederick Phillip
Weymouth, Herbert Newton
White, George William
White, Henry Kick
.Vhite, Herbert Cornelius
:Wilkie, John Blues
Will, Andrew Jackson
Wimble, Charles Wilson
Witte, Henry
Wood, Jesse
-106

Sonora, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Lyman Hood, Master,
·Robert Edw. Rundell, Sen. Deaco14,
Thos. Henry Slator, Sen. Warden, Fred'k Wm. Mitchell, Jun. Deacon,
John Vial, Jun. Warden,
William Glasson, Marshal,
·
Wm. Edwin Burden, Treasurer,
;Lewis Horatio Elliott, Steward,
Otto Julius Mouron, Secretary,
Joseph E . . Elliott, Steward,
Abraham Barlow, Tyler.

WITHDRAWN:
Pate, Robert Buxton
*Reeves, David

Hench, William Burton
Mosher, Ernest Hiram

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Chambers, Isaac Thomas
EXPELLED:
Stearn, Howard M. (F. C.)
\.

Radel, Jerry A. (F. C.)

DIED:
Robinson, Alexanuer

17

•

•Raised during the year.

•

Allgewahr, George
Allgewahr, Louis, Jr.
Anthony, David Ritchard
Anthony, Edward Reese
Armstrong, Elmer Holland
Ball, Cary
Barton, Eugene Hamilton
Belli, Caesar Arthur
Billings, Samuel Moses
Black, William John
Blocklinger, Emil Arthur
Boesch, Louis
Booker, William Elijah
Bogio, Frederick
Bowers, Frederick Urban
Burden, Charles Henry
Burden, William Edwin
Ball, Farlon Ford
Baker, Harry Walcott
Brunson, Horace Wilber
Benas, Solomon, P. M.
Barlow, Abraham
Callinam, William
Callow, Charles Henry
Carmichael, Niel
Chute, Richard
Claytor, George Louis
Claytor, Charles Hiram
Coffill, Harry James
Collier, Mentor Carl
2

MEMBERS:
Cramer, Herman, Jr.
Donald, Ralph Selick
Dering, Cassius
Delgrove, Charles Martin
Dewitt, Wilmer
Eastman, William White
Eddy, George Lyman
Elliott, Joseph E.
Elliott, Lewis Horatio
Eslick, Charles
Ellis, Eugene
Fletcher, Albert C.
Francis, Robert
Fulcher, Raymond E:
Gallut, Victor
Guerena, Louis Alexander
Gould, Elisha Tolman, P. M.
·Glasson, William, P. M.
Godfrey, Charles Homens
Goodwin, Frank Halsey
Hale, George Webb
Hampton, Crittenden, P. M
Hauman, Arthur Eug·ene H.
Hender, Samuel John
Hender, Thomas Arthur Stiles
Hendriksen, James
Hicken, Ernest Edward
· Hood, William Lyman
Hornung, John Henry
.,..
Hoskins, Joseph

18
Hubbard, Winslow, P. M.
Inch, Richard, P. M.
Jenkins,. WilHam Henry
Jess, Willard Noble
Jones, Charles Vance
Jones, Ray Everett
Johnson, George W.
Kahl, Leonard
Kenney, William Augustus
Kent, Richard Wallope
Kirkwood, James, Sr.
Krause, Wilhelm
Keil, Edward, P. M.
Knudsen, Nils Ladefoged, P. M.
, Leon, Samuel
Lewellyn, William
Langton, George Henry
Littlefield, John Franklin
Long, William Giles, P. M.
Lawson, Jesse Nils
'
Macpherson, John
Martin, William Kenneth
McKenzie, Alex. Stuart
McKenzie, Donald
McLaren, Duncan Allan
Morgan, George Phillip
Morrice, George
Morrow, George Washington
Mouron, Otto Julius
Mitchell, Frederick William
Nash, John Frank
Newell, William Hamilton
Nickerson, Ralph Byron
Nicol, George Woodburn, P. M.
Oakes, William Con
O'Brien, James Timothy
0 'Connell, john Henry ·
Ogden, Byron Augustus
Parsons, Edmond
Patterson, 'George John Hurd
Paulsen, Hans Christian
Peters, Joseph
Pownall, Joseph Benjamin

ROSTER;
, Preston, Howard Alvin
Preston, Charles W.
Rainville, Alfred Hercules
Rosaco, Leo Francis
Richey, Aylmor
Rundell, Robert Edward, P. M.
Requa, James Edgar
Ro bison, William Lynn
Sartoris, Abraham
Sayre, DeZeng Laurence
Scanlan, James Louis
Scott, Archibald
Sharrock, Everett, P. M.
Sharwood, William
Shine, John Henry
Slator, Thomas Henry
Smullen, Joseph Milton
Soulsby, Benjamin
Stanley, Horace Martin
Stt;iimetz, David Henry
Sullenger, James Rufus
Street, Charles Edward
Street, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Thesse, Frank George
Thow, George
Tomkin, John Lee
Trittenbach, Albert
Turner, William Lincoln
Truckenmuller, Charles
Toms, Richard
Vial, John
Ware, Arthur Frank
Weimer, William
Wellington, Henry
Wells, Thomas Washington
West, John Henry
Wise, John Frieman
Witney, John Lorin
Witt, Thomas Jefferson
Wonderly, John Martin
Woodhams, Henry Crane
West, Thomas Otho
-145

ROSTER.

1

19

WITHDRAWN:
Fraser, Charles Gladstone
Scott, William Rlchard
York, James .Madison

Bauman, Julius
Barter, George
Colby, Alonzo

DIED:
Fosterling, Louis
Muller, Eugene
Rooney, John Francis

CORINTHIAN LODGE, No. g..
MarysvUle, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

I

r

Chas. Franklin Metteer, Master,
Edw. John McCready, Sen. Deacon,
Edwin J. Goodpastor, Sen. Warden, Chas. Cecil Hampton, Jun. Deacon,
Chas. Arthur Trow, Jun. Warden, Chas. Frederic Chase, Marshal,
Oscar Leonidas Meek,· Treasurer, Charles Christian Wuth, Steward,
Edw. Babson Stanwood, Secretary; Alfred Herbert A1derman, Steward,
Lewis Boyd Wilcoxon, Chaplain, Edgar Taber, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Charles Francis, P. M.
Chase, Charles Frederic, P. M.
Alderman, Alfred Herbert
Chase, Thomas
Anthony, Charles Volney
Cohn, Isaac Geballe
Andross, Albert. Knight
Collier; George
Andross, Elbridge Porter
Cooley, Allen
Baker, Robert James
Cooley, Edward Sedgwi<'k
Barnes, Cyrus Arson
Coombs, Joseph Elden
:Belcher, Edward Augu9tus
Cornforth, Harold
Berry, James McConnell
Crane, Francis Benjamin
Bingham, Atkins Clark, P. M.
Crane; Lemuel Trescott P. M.
Bowen, Chester. LeRoy
Crook, Leslie Blaine
",
Bruce, Eugene Harrison
Crook, Fred Austin
Brul, Bernard John
Day, Frederick Henry
Burroughs, William Curt
Day, Richard
Bury, John Charles Fremont
Davenport, Francis William
Buttelman, Frederick William, P. M.Davenport, William Battles, P. M.
Campbell, Oliver Otis Howard
Deitz, George Washington
Chase, Arthur Willis
Dougall, Thomas

ROSTER.

20
Eckart, George Roberts
Eckart, Marcus Alger
Edeler, James Otto
Ellis, William Turner
Euler, Adam
Evans, Isaac Curtis
Fairclough, James
Fetrow, Dnvid Ernest
Flentge, i.lfax
Forbes, Edwin Alexander
Fordham, Free Delbert
Ganion, Joseph Ben
Gatgcns, John Frederick F.
Goodpastor, Edwin James
Greely, J. Wellington
Hampton, Charles Cecil
Heilmann, Edward
Heilmann, Paul
Higgins, John Henry
Himes, Charles Edward .
Hockstadter, Simon
Hodgkins, Will Mayo
Holland, George
Horton, Arthur Dwight
Hudson, Edward Henry
Hunter, William
Irwin, Alexander Cameron, P. M.
Jewett, Harold Woodwa·r d
Kelly, William Frederick
Kelser, Christian Christopher
Kosby, Augustus Emil
Krause, Frederick Francis
Learmont, William Clarence
Lewek, Solomon, P. M.
Lott, Henry Charles, P. M.
MacLellan, Harvey Everett
MacLellan, John George, P. M.
Marcuse, Meyer A., P. M.
Martin, Allen Birch
Maseman, Charles Louis
Mayer, Christopher
Maynard, James Monroe

Mcisaac, James Patterson
Meek, Oscar Leonidas
Meek, William Mayo
Metteer, Charles Franklin
Mitchell, Henry Keller
Nelson, Niles Victor
Nyrop, David Frank
Parker, Theodore Roosevelt
Parks, Louis Herbert, P. M.
Peacock, William Flint, P. M.
Pengellay, Robert Wiley
Phelan, James Henry
Pine, George Washington
l'ozzi, Romeo
Price, Cl;iarles John
Roberts, Frederic
Roche, George Edward
Russell, Wilmer W.
Schneider, David Nathan
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Scott, JeRse Milton
Seawell, Floyd Selden
Sharp, Daniel Lawrence
Sieber, Henry Frederick, P. M.
Simons, Robert Ray
Stall, Frank William
Stall, George Edward
Stanwood, Edward Babson
Stanwood, Richard Goss
Strain, William J.
Swift,. Clarence Eugene
'l'apley, Joseph Franklin
Toland, John
Trow, fharles Arthur
Weber, Henry Victor
Winlander, Edward
Wells, Roff Hague
Wenzell, Harry William
White, Espie Alexander
·White, John Comyn
Wilcoxon, Lewis Boyd, P. M.
-119.

WITHDRAWN:
Teenor, Carl H.

ROSTER.

21

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
N e,lson, William Harvey

•

Boorman, Barnard Ross

,

DIED:
Rideout, Norman Dunning
Russell, Robert F.

SAN JOSE LODGE, No ..10.

•

San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated ~eetings, first ;Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Louis Victor Saph, Master,
Paul Sibley Wi1liarns, Sen. Deacon,
John H. McGehee, Sen. Warden, Frank Geo. King, Jun. Deacon,
Thos. Grey Watson, Jun. Warden, Curtis Marion Barker, Marshal,
Edward Harn Guppy, Treasurer,
Sanford Lord Bacon, Steward,
Milton Amos Boulware, Secretary, Thomas Costain, Steward,
Francis Edwin Smith, Chaplain, . Warren Milton Pearse, Tyler.

r

•

.

MEMBERS:
Barnes, James
Addecott, James Edwin
Barnhisel, Lewis
Adelson, Julius
Alexander, Howard Augustus, P. M.Barnum, Jolin Starr
Barstow, Alfred
Alexander, William Gay
Barthel, Franklin Keifer
Anderson, John Zuinguilus
Bath, Edw~rd Robert
. Anderson, Martin Gustave
Andt:rson, Philip
Bawden, John Henry
Appleton, Morris
Bay, Lewis Irwin
Bean, George Albert
Asay, Jacob Lambert, P. M.
Beasley, William Arthur
Ayer, Frank Milton
Benson, Frank Henry
Bacon, Sanford Lord
Bergman, Oscar Forrest
Bailey, Charles Everett
Biggs, Marshall Alexander
Bailey, Calvin Porter
Bailey, Elton Ream, P. M.
Blauer, William Edward
Boring, Flavius Josephus
Bailey, Willard Chapin
Borodori, Martin James
Ballow, John Quincy Adams
Bothwell, Charles Allen
Bane, John L.
Boulware, Milton Amos
Barber, Lawrence Evans
Barker, Curtis Marion, P. M.
Brabetz, William Frank
Brackett, Jethro Nat. Bruce
Barker, George Leon

!12

Braden, William Durand
Bray, George
Britton, William
Bromley, Robert Van Vliet
Bromley, Van Buren
Buffo, Anthony
Burnight, Thomas Starr
Cameron, William
Ca.mm, Charles William ·
Cash, Albert B.
Castle, Isaac Newton
Chappell, William
Charteer, Daniel Arthur
Chase, Elmer Ellsworth
Chase, James Albert
Chrisman, William Henry
Clayton, Willis Sherman
Clifton, Henry
Clover, John Henwood
Coffin, Fred Sanford
Cohn, Solomon Jacob
Collins, Herman
Conant, Ernest Woodbury, P. M.
Conklin, Marvin H.
Cook, John Wesley
Costa, Charles John
Coutant, Charles Gale
Costain, Thomas
Crider, Jacob Wright, P. M.
Christ, Squire Belden
Crossman, Walter Everett
Crothers, Charles Fair
Crothers, William Henry
Crow, Richard
Cureton, Edward
Dailey, Morris Elmer
Davis, Thomas Haines
Davy, John William
Day, James Collins
Dennis, John Soulsby
Dixon, Frank Alexander
Doerr, Frederick
Donahoo, Frank ~eslie
Donlan, William
Down, Robert Hodge

;ROSTER.
Dunham, George
Dynes, William Henry
Eddy, Alonzo Hencilly
Essery, Maurice Robert William
Evans, Reece Thompson
Everett, Ernest Royal
Fairchild, John Alarie
Farrington, Melvin J.
Fassett, Thomas A. K.
Pee, George Washington
Field, Zibeon Orison
Field, Chapin Hall
Fikes, Henry J.
Fillmore, Frederick Burnett
Fisher, Henry Beach
Franzen, Andrew
Frasse, Irvin Negus
French, William Henry
Fry, Hawley Ray
Gassett, John Eames
Gerichs, John Christean
Gladewitz, Christean David
Graebe, Charles Edward
Graves, Joseph Hiram
Gray, Simon Johnstone
Greer, John Lawrence
Gummer, Everett Edward
Guppy, Edward Ham
· Hablutzel, Charles Edward P . M.
Hafner, George Wellington
Hagerdon, Charles Luther
Hale, John Edward
Ha.rbeck, Theo. Martin William
Hardy, Thomas West
Hatla:d, Orren Arth.ur
Harms, Henry August
Harms, Maynard Heim
HaWley, William George
Haydock, Clarence, P. M.
Heid, Louis Gotleib
Henry, James Harrison
Hensill, John Samuel
Henwood, Joseph Richard
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson
Hipburn, Charles Thomas

. ROS'rER.

•

Heple, Theo. Felix
Herman, Frank Adolph
Heminger, Franklin Peter
Hestwood, J a.mes Osman
l!ewett, James
Hill, Henrie Granville
Hixson, Morris Claton
Howell, Henry John
Hubback, Charles Edward
Huff, William Jackson
Hunt, John West
liyle.nd, Michael Henry
Ickes, Daniel W.
Jackson, George Washington
James, C.b;i.rles Hodge
January, William Alexander, P. M.
Jarman, Albert ·Hutchinson, P. M.
Jarman, John Plaskett, P. M.
J enkines, William Keaster
Johnstone, Frederick Eugene
Jones, Albert Lincoln
Jones, Cyrus
Kalfus, Joseph Leland
Kapp, Michael William
Kautlehner, Christian George P.
Kelley, Frank Bennett
Key, John Powel
King, Frank Giarza
Kock, Adolph Jacob
Kooser, Raley Sherman
Krause, Frederick William
Krause, William Henry
Langkamp, Charles Albert
Lanyon, Byron
Lathwesen, Louie John
LeBreck, Frank
Leach, William
"
Ledyaru, Francis King
Ledyard, Henry Horatio
Leigh, Hugh Alexander
Lenzen, Theodore William
Lewis, Joseph R.
Lion, Lazar
Lifsett, Archie
Levingston, William

Lowe, Ralph, P. M.
Lowe, Sam Butterworth
Lowe, Sherburne Whiteman
Mann, Charles William _
Marvin, Frank. Freeman
Masson, Paul
Mathew, Allan 011car
May, George Baldazar
Maynard, Charles Cyrus
McCloskey, Thomas
McDon.a ld, Archibald
McFaul, Charles Lincoln
McGehee, John Henry
McGlan1lin, George Vails
McKenzie, George Wilson
McKiernan, Frank Charles Henry
Meyer, Frederick Henry
Moltzen, Hermann
Montgomery, Edwin C.
Moore, Samuel Grant
Muirson, George Albert
Mule, Cologero
Nash, Charles Henry
Nickerson, Franklin Lewis
North, David Jordan
0 'Brien, Maurice .
Olinder, ·Albert Manfred
Olinder, Carl F erdenand
Orvis, William Shakespear
Otter, Hug:> Washington
Ownley, Thomas Powell
Page, George William
Park, Clement Theo.
Parks, Samuel Daniel
Patton, Joseph Richard
Pawley, Albert Leslie
Pearse, Warren Milton
Pellier, Entrope Joseph L.
P ender, David Rattray
Pennoyer, Chester Hicks
Percy, Calvin Wheeler
Pfan, Louis John
Poore, James Robert
Pozzo, Francisco '
Priest, Richard Turner

23

24
Proctor, Calderon Weld
Radford, Joseph D.
Rainey, Joseph Wesley
Reed, Elliott
Reed, Warren DeWitt
Reynolds, Clifton Greene
Rhoads, Lewis William
Rice, Charles Warren
Rich, Samuel Herman
Richards, Albert
Richards, Benjamin Franklin
Richmond(Edmund Nutting
Richmond, George
Richmond, George Andrew
Renaldo, David
Robertsi Albert Forrest
Robins, Charles Edwin
Rowley, Albanus Bellger
Ruble, Robert Simon
Rucker, Samuel Newton
Russ, Arthur Charles
Russell, William, P. M .
Sanderson, Edward Wavell
Saph, Louis Victor
Schallenberger, Moses
Schemmel, Henry Leonhard
Schultz, Charles Hieronymus
Schuman, Henry
Sexton, William
Sheaff, Charles Raymond
Shearer, Paul Morphy
Shaup, Edward Glendening
Simpson, William
Skinner, Edwin Hume
Smith, Francis Edwin
Smith, Harrison Pryor
Snyder, Charles Lafayette

ROS'l'ER.
Spencer, Hume Alexander
Spencer, Hume Francis
Squire, Paul Edwin
Sterne, Harry Raymond
Stythe, Arthur John
Su=ers, Robert Onell
Sutton, Alfred Martin
Sweigert, George Adam
Taylor, William Stewart
Thompson, Samuel
Thompson, Samuel Halleck
Tompkins, Samuel George, P. M.
Topham, Edward
Topham, Frank Henry
Townsend, Arthur Chisholm
Tripp, Herbert Russell
Tuttle, Hiram Daniel
Valpey; Calvin
Wagener, Samuel Hopkins
Watson, Thomas Grey
Weber, Frank Ferguson
Whitton, Albert King, P. M.
Wight, David
Wilcox, Edwin Augustus
Wilcox, Wilbur Justus, P. M.
Wilder, Alphonse Eli
Willi, John
Williams, Edwin Henry
Williams, Paul Sebley
Winans, Claude O.
Winmuger, J?seph Urban
Woldenberg, Russell Lewis
Woo.Is, Robert Clay
Woster, Clarence Marshall
Wretman, Niles Emil
Wright, Eli
Wyatt, James Bellman
-294

WITHDRAWN:
Brown, Marshall Felder
Jamison, William Thomas
Chapman, Fred Lynwood
*Kelly, William
Conlisk, Charles :Villiam
McNary, William Thomas
Metcalf, Charles Otis
• Restored during the yeBr.

25

ROSTER.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Granger, Frank Sylvester
Hickey, William Henry
DIED:

Breyfolge, William Osmond
Hamilton, Alonzo Babbitt

YOUNT LODGE, No.

12.

Napa, Napa County.

•

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles Edward ·Trower, Master, Robert S. Holden, Sen. Deacon,
James Mason, Senior Warden,
Jas. Howard Morgan, Jun. Deacon,
W . Thompson Smith, Jun. Warden, Charles Post Conklin, Marshal,
Edward Derrel Beard, Treasurer, Frank Merion Cobbledick, Steward,
Isaac George Herron, Secretary,
Orville John R. Mackley, Steward,
Morrow Henry Davis, Tyler.

•

•
t

Southworth, Malek A.
Weller, Henry Olp

MEMBERS:
Cliflord, George Boardman
Amstutz, Henry Louis
Cobbledick, Frank Marion
Bachman, Llewellyn Thomas
Conklin, Charles Post
Bailey, William Augustin
Corlett, William Henry
Beard, Edward Derrel
Corlett, Robert
Beard, James Edgar
Davis, Morrow Henry
Beard, Derrel Leonard
Davis, William Edward
Bickford, Elmer Leonard, P. M.
DeBonis, Guiseppi
Bliss, Charles Humphrey.
Dennis, John
Blunk, Arthur Scott
Derry, Thomas
Bonsall, Edward, P. M.
Dunlap, David Anderson, P. M.
Bradford, William, P. M.
Edlund, Gustaf Alfred
Bush, Franklin William
Evans, Louis John
Butler, Ira Mortimer
Finnell, Williamson
Butler, Ralph Morris
Flagler, Albert Daniel
Butters, Angus
Fossum,. Otto Bergerson
Cain, John Alexander
Furber, William Giddings
Casassa, Joseph
Gardner, Alden Monroe
Chalmers, John Howard
Gardner, James Buchannon
Chapman, William Levi
Germain, William :E<µgene
Christin, Jean Louis
Gilson, Gilson Albert
Clark, Bay Dennison

26

Goodman, Harvey Pulaski
Graham, William
Uregory, Charles McCloon
Grigsby Alphonse De Lafayette
Grossman, Ad9lph Herman
Haas, David Leopold
liarker, Charles Sumner
Hatch, Frederick Winslow
Hawkes, John
Hearn, George Alfred
Henry, William Putnam
Herron, Isaac George
Hoernle, Henry John
Hoffman, Oliver
Holden, Robert Smyth, P. M.
Horstmeyer, Henry Conrad
Hottel, Eli Washington
Howell, Joseph
Hull, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Hunter, William
Jaekle,. Carl John
Johnson, Carl Boothe
Johnston, Finis Ewing, P. M.
Johnston, Harry Lewis, P. M.
Jordan, Fred Murray
:King, Percival Simpson, P. M.
Klose, Berthold Edwill
Klose, Walter William
Knudsen, Andrew
Kyser, Daniel Sterling, P. M.
Lindow, William James
Liver, Richard
Lord, George Washington
Maccuaig, Alex. Malcolm . P. M.
M9rb1'i, N"lson, P. M.
Marois, Theodore Miximillian
Mason, James
Maxwell, Charles Alexander
Merwin, Louis Tunis
Morgan, James Howard
Moss, Levi
Murry, Henry Wilson
McClelland, Joseph Alexander
McCollum, William James

HOSTER.

.ROS'rER..
McCue, James Edward
McManus, Samuel
McWade, David Dale
Newman, James Bartholomew
Oliver, Thomas
Parker, John Watson
Parker, Arthur Campbell
Pederson, John Adolph
Pinkham, George Grafton
Pond, Frank Alfred
Powers, Philo Fitch
Ramsey, Robert Randolph
Raymond, Earl Hilsinger, P . M.
Raven, Morton Jessen
Robinson, Edward Oscar
Rohrer, John Charles
Ross, Cecil Jforbes
Rumsey, William Woodgate
Shepard, Edward Ralph
Shepard, Samuel Philo
Shurtleff, Benjamin
Shwarz, David
Shwarz, William
Smith, Walthall Ridgway
Smith, William Thompson
Stannard, John Charles
Stevens, James Baunty, P. G. M.
Stewart, Robert
Stice Tyre Harrison
Stice, William Wirt
Strohl, George Washington
Swift, John Jackson
Taylor, Robert Francis
Trower, Charles Edward
Trubody, William Alexander
Voigt, William
Webster, Thomas· Eugene
Whitton, Herbert Blakeslee
Wichells, Johann Diedrich
Wilkins, Benjamin Sidney
Williams, Fred Waldo, P. M.
Young, Guy Wallace
Young, William Harvey
Zollner, John Frederick
~130

27

WITHDRAWN:
Metzner, Robert Carl

Garwood, Charles Marvin

DIED:
Howland, John Smith

•
I

NEV ADA LODGE, No. 13.·
Nevada City, Nevada Connty.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month, ·

..

OFFICERS:

Eugene Bond Meservey, Master,
Lloyd W. Jennings, S en. Deacon,
Thomas Henry Waters, S. Warden, Jas. Francis · Colley, Jun. ·Deacon,
William Giffin, Junior Warden,
Frederick L. Arbogast, Marshal,
J ohn Thomas Morgan, Treasurer, Richard Bennett Tremaine, Steward,
Wm. Edmund Meservey, Secretary, Charles A. Grissel, Steward,
Christ'n C. Weisenburger, Chaplain, Antonio Tam, Tyler.

,

MEMBERS:
Cook, Harry George
Cooper, Herbert Marcelus
Craig, Michael Francia
Crose, Charles Wesley
Curnow, John Arthur
Curnow, Robert
Dailey, Daniel Albert
Delbridge, Abel Nicholas
Douglas, Norval
Drunzer, Peter
Eagye, Elzeva
Eddie, Hamilton
Eddy, Charles Henry
Eddy, Samuel Jones
Fldwards, Edward Samuel
Ennis, Franklin, P. M.
Englebright, William F.
Evans, John
Faull, George Henry

Allen, William Grant
Arbogast, Frederick Luther, P. M.
Armstrong, Leroy Elwood
Ashton, David
Ashbum, Hans Arent
Barruzza, Emile
Becker, John N.
Bennetts, Richard John
Bovey, Albert John
Brackett, Arthur Grover
Brand, Herman William
Carman, William -Kelly
Casper, Kaskil
Chapman, Chester Warren, P. M.
Coan, Thomas Nicholas
Colley, James Francis
Conley, Charles Henry
Cohn, Casper
Cohn, Ephraim

•
28

Fiss, Franklin Benjamin
Fleming, Joseph Davenport
Floyd, William
Fogg, William Willis
Folene, Antone ·
Ford, Thomas Savory
Gaylord, Ralph Wright
Giffin, William
Giles, Timothy
Goodwin, Jeremiah Samuel
Gray, George Alfred
Gray, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Grissel, Charles Augustus
Hall, Benjamin
Hawley, Thomas Porter, P. M. .,
Hill, Charles Wilson
Hitchings, John Mathew
Holland, Jacob Lafayette
Holmes, William
Hoskins, Henry Rablin
Hughes, Thomas T.
Irwin, Samuel Berryhill
Ivey, John Reid
Jacqumar, Robert
Jennings, Lloyd W.
Kendrick, Levi, Jackson
Kistle, William Henry
Kitts, Herbert Stewart
Lamb, Francis Arthur
Langman, John, P. M.
Lean, James Henry
Legg, George Arthur
Lord, Atherton Simeon, P. M.
Mallen, Christopher Henry'
Marsh, Daniel
Marsh, Martin Luther
Marsh, Sherman Ward
Martin, Alfred
Martin, John James
Martin, William Henry
Medlin, Fred William
Meservey, Eugene Bond
Meservey, William Edmund, P. M.
Moore, Edward Anslem
Morgan, Eddy John

Morgan, David Eddy, P. M.
Morgan, John Thomas, P. M.
Morrison, Angus Rae
Muir, David Dalrymple
Muller, Carl Louis, P. M.
McCall, John Thomas
McDonald, Alonzo Alvin
McDonald, 'Vallace
McEelvey, Charles
Nivens, Archibald
Ogden, George William
Osborn, Thomas Israel
Pare, Camille Alfred
Parini, Daniel
Parsons, Walter Emmons
Pascoe, Emanuel
Pellamounter, Thomas
Pioletti, John Baptiste
Plumer, Richard
Power, Erastus Barnum
Randolph, William Cooper, P. M.
Reynolds, William John
Richards, David
Richards, Gluyas James
Richards, John Henry
Richards, William Gilbert, P. :M.
Richardson, Robert
lfoberts, Mark L.
Roberts, Stephen Henry
Robinson, George Edward
Rolfe, Ianthis Jerome, P. M.
Rolfe, William Jasper
Rosewall, James Henry
Rowe, William
Sandus, Lawrence Charles
Scarfe, George
Schroeder, Henry Christian
Searles, Fred
S.haw, George Crawford
Siddles, Milen Buchard
Snell, Albert Knapp
Snell, Nicholas
Smith, Hal. Othro
Stampher, Joseph P.
Stenger, Henry Augustus, P. M.

29

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Vi.ato.n, Walter Douglas, P. M.
Visher, Herbert Peter
Waters, Thomas Henry
Weisenburger, Christian C., P. M.
White, Francis
White, James C.
White, Joseph Newton
Wilborn, Miles Richard
Williams, Richard
-147

Stenger, Joseph Floyd, P; M.
Sukeforth, Elisha Gurney
Tam, Antonio
rellam, Frederick
Treadwell, James Buchanan
Tremaine, Richard John
Tremaine, Robert Bennett
Turner, Robert Haviland
Tyler, George Alton
Veal, William Henry

•

•

Friedman, Charles L.

WITHDRAWN:
Lear, Samuel Best

..

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Preston, Myers, Albert
Davies, Thoinas
DIED:
Hale, Horace
Searls, Niles

Brown, Walter S.
Gilelspie, Robert

TEMPLE LODGE, No. 14.
Sonoma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

Hartley Wm. Gottenberg, Master,
Sam. Birdslee Lewis, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Fred'k Clewe, Sen. Warden, Wm. Aug. Werner, Jun. Deacon,
John Davis Wagnon, Jun. Warden, Montg'y Paxton Akers, Marshal,
Gustave Henry Hotz, Treasurer,
Claude Eugene Johnson, Steward,
David R. VanAmringe, Secretary, Frederick Deterick Bos~. Steward,
Thomas J. McGimsey, Chaplain,
Edward Henry Johannsen, Tyler.

'

Adler, Adam Winkle
Akers, Montgomery Paxton
Appleton, William Greenleaf
Arthur, Charles, P. M.
Baer, Bernard
Bates, Henry Frederick

MEMBERS:
Burris, Jesse, P. M.
Clewe, William Frederick
Duhring, Frederick Thomas
Enke, Albert Adolphus
Gaige, All>rrt Ebenezer
Goethe, William Edward

Gottenberg. H. Williams, P. M.
Harris, Granville Swift
Hart, Ezra Blair
Hartin, Henry
Hartman, Frank Benjamin
Hill, Robert Potter, P. M.
Hocker, William Ogden
Hotz, Gustave Henry
Humphreys, James Hughes
Johannsen, Edward Henry
Johannsen, Ludwig Matthias
Johnson, Claude Euge:me
Keechler, Joseph
Langrebe, Willaim Edward
Landis, William Alexander
Lewis, Samuel Birdslee
Lewis, Thomas Archibald
McGimsey, Thomas Jefferson
Montgomery, DeWitt
Moore, Oliver Cromwell
Murphy, Ralph Everett
Nolan, Walter Charles
Pasch, Hyman Lipman

Goodman, Willis Catlet

Perkins, Ralph Everett
Pinder, Benjamin Franklin
Poppe, Charles Julius
Poppe, Robert Albion, P. M.
Potter, Charles Reid
Qnien, Albert Brebner
Rich, George David
Ringstrom. fJ1gurd Adolf
Rohrer, John Celestine
Schocken, Solomon
Still, William
Stofen, Peter Nicolas
Sutten:field, William Thomaa
Tate, James Franklin
Thompson, Peter Henry
Thomson, Allen Milo
Van Amringe, David Ralph
Wagner, Otto Rudolph
Wagnon, John Davis
Weaver, Albert William, P. M.
Weaver, Frank
Werner, William August
Wilde, Reinhardt Frederick -58

MEMBERS:
Lininger, Michael David, P. M.
Lardner, William Branson
Locher, Joseph Francis
Locher, Albert Joseptt
Martin, Peter Daniel
McCann, William John
May, William Isaac
McCracken, William James
Neff, Jacob Hart, P. M.
Prewett, James E.
Prewett, William James
Pullrn, John Francis
Quire, Joseph Spencer
Rooney, Robert Fleming, P. M.
Robinson, Alexander Kelley
Rice, James Edward
Richter, Christian Frederick
Safford, John Coleman
Snowden, Edward Christopher
Smith, John Lawrence
Smith, Alfred Lovell
Smith, Preston Washington, P. M.
Shane, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Shepard, Will Abel
Stevens, Frederick Solan
Thomas, George
Tittle, Horatio Seymore
Tabor, Ashley Raymond
'l'reverton, James
Taylor, Junius Clifton
White, John Miles
Williams, James Marshall
Wiley, Morris Brickback

Allen, George E.
Anderson, Albert Wall ace
Anderson, William Craig
Boggs, John Craig
Barter, William
Bisbee, .John Gould, P. M.
Brown, Edward Doyle
Bilkey, Charles Albert
Brye, Frederick Emil
Baxter, Joseph Quincey
Curtis, Henry Crittenden, P. M.
Crowell, William Albert, P. M.
Collins, George Pendleton
Chamberlain, David Jerome
Disque, Henry, P. M.
Deetkin, Frederick Charles
Ekberg, Peter George
Fulweiler, John Mathias, P. M.
Fulton, Jonathan, P. M.
Futhey, Robert Scot.t
Francis, Joseph Marie
Fitzmaurice, William Robert
Fleming, Arthur Spencer
Francis, Everett Allen
Fitch, Frederick Robert
Geraldson, Gerald
Green, Arthur Reginald
Glover, Alfred Kingsley
Hellwig, Charles John, P. M.
Hobson, John Beaugardi
Hofeld, Edward
Hamilton, Charles Oscar
Kofor-d, James Mossin
Lubeck, David Waldemer

•

DIED:
Potter, Joseph Harvey
Spene.er, George

EUREKA LODGE, No. 16.
Auburn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or r ..,xt prtJ~eciing Fllll M·Jon.

.

-67

WITHDRAWN:

•

OFFICERS:

Christian Fred'k Richter, Master, Geo. Howard Fay, Sen. Deacon,
Charles 0. Hamilton, Sen. Warden, Arthur S. Fleming, Jun .. Deacon,
Wm. James Prewett, Jun. Warden, John Gould Bisbee, Marshal,
David W. Lubeck, Treasurer,
Joseph Marie Francis, Steward,
Chas. Nelson Shane, Secretary,
Gerald Geraldson, Steward,
Michael D. Lininger, Chaplain,
Jonathan Fulton, Tyler.

31

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

30

Woodard, John Carlton
DIED: .

-11

I

...

Wood, William Thomas

32

ROSTER.

LA PARFAiTE UNION LODGE, No. I7.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.

ROSTER.

"'

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Henry Mottet, Master,
Pierre Pommier, Sen. Deacon,
Antoine . L. Auradou, Sen. Warden, Francois Terramorse, Jun. Deacon,
Simon Levy, Jun. Warden,
Orlando Bozio, Marshal,
Adolph Huguenin, Treasurer,
Brewster Frost Ames, Steward,
Paul de St. Jullien, Secretary,
Camille Lahanier, Steward,
Auguste Goustiaux, Chaplain,
Anatole Lobe, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ames, Brewster Frost
Decourtieux, Amand Xavier
Areiis, Jean
Dehay, Emile
Artigues, Joseph Emile, P. M.
Delagnes, Benjamin
A.storg, Alphonse
Diebold, Michel E., P. M.
Aubin, Auguste Henri
Drayeur, Auguste Constant
Auradore, Antoine Leon
Duque, Fernand
Auratlon, Jules
Dupas, Jean Marie, P. M.
Babin, D.emas Colin
Eisenberg, Adolphe
Battistessa, Guisseppe
Eisner, Daniel
Beleney, Georges
Escude, Gabriel
Bellegarde, Pascal
Eskinazi, Elie
Bellocq, Pierre
Faure, Emile
Bergerat, Louis
Franck, Isidore
Bergez, Jean
Frederick, Marcus White
Bertin, Leonce Charles
Gehret, Alfred
Berton, George Abel
Gless, Alois
Blanquie, Edward
Godchaux, Edmonu
Blum, Jacques
Godeau, Jules S.
Blum, Leon
Goldaracena, Orel Martin, P. M.
Boisson, Francis
Goldsmith, Gaston
Bollack, Alphonse
Goustiaux, Auguste
Bouteiller, Louis Auguste
Grandjean, Charles
Bozio, Orlando
Grothwell, Victor
Carnes, Louis
Guyot, Emile Desire A.
Chaigneau, Alfred
Hallgarten, Benoit
Champion, Joseph
Hart, Edward Gustavus
Clavere, Jean Pierre
Hour, Jean Baptiste
Clerfayt, Jules
Huguenin, Adolph, P. M.
Coney, Alexander Kaufman, P. M.
Huguenin, Henry
Coppa, Guiseppe
Lacaze, Louis
Dazet, Jean Baptiste
Lahanier, Camille

'

Lame, Louis
Lacroix, Lucien
Larque, Albert
Lenormand, Leon
Letroader, Julien
Levy, Nathan
Levy, Simon
Levy, Daniel, P. M.
Lille, Charles
Lipman, Isidore
Lobe, Anatole
Long, Claude
Loupy, Jean
Loupy, Noel Paul
Loustaunou, Jean C.
Mailhebuan, Evariste C.
Marchebout, Victor
Marquis, Canac Ferdinand
Masson, Francois Pierre, P, M.
Meuel, Paul E.
Meyer, Emmanuel, P. M.
Monaco, Jean Baptiste
Mooser, Charles E.
Mottet, Henry
Neuburger, Gustave
Nevraumont, Ernest
Nevraumont, Joseph
Newmark, Maurice
Ortion, Auguste Joseph Vietor
Pagnuelo, Ernest
Palacin, Joseph
Penz, Charles E.
Pestelacci, To bias
Peters, Frank
Pfund, Gebhard

33

Pommier, Pierre
Pottet. Alphonse
Raas, Emmanuel, P. M.
Redinger, MichPl
Reiss, Bernard
Reiss, Emile
Revert, A1pl:onse
Rimassa, Charles
Robert, Cyprien Pierre
Roncovieri, Alfred Louis
Roos, Adolphe
Roumiguiere, Alphonse
Rousseau, Charles M.
Sehabiague, Arma'f!-d
Sehabiague, Thomas, P. M
Seibel, Frederique
Serveau, Emile
Sevilla, Albert
Sgier, Jean Joseph
Soulages, Jules
St. Denis de Jules
St. Julien, Paul de
Terramorse, Francois
Thierry, Auguste
Treyer, Theophile
Van Ander, Beck Charles
Vautier, Femand
V ergnes, Frederic
V ermeil, Jean Louis
Vellegia, Leopold
Wagner, Edward Lafayette
Weill, Raphael
Weill, Sylvain
Willard, Jules
Willard, Leon
-132

Grothwell, Leonce
Roos, Adolphe

WITHDRAWN:
Straus, Gaston
Wilhelm, Fredrique

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Castanier, Femand
Roeckel, Joseph (]-,
3

DIED:
Lapachet, Pierre (E. A.)

ROSTER.

34

ROSTER.

MOUNTAIN SHADE LODGE, No. 18.

SAN JOAQUIN LODGE, No. 19.

Downieville, Sierra County.

Stockton, San Joaquin County.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Wm. Henry Shafer, Master,
Wm. Irvin Redding, Sen. Deacon,
William W. Casserly, Sen. Warden, Eliphalet ·Lewis Case, Jun. Dccrcoii,
Sheldon W. Shafer, Jun. Warden, Horace Armsby Morse, Marshal,
Henry Herman Meyer, Treasurer, Adam Kieffer,. Steward,
Henry Edwin Quigley, Secretary, John Woessner, Steward, ·
Valentine Hartling, Tyler.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

MEMBERS:
Alexander, James Ramsey
Burman, John, P. M.
Barrett, John Miles
Bettinger, Carl Francis
Crooks, James Brown, P. M.
Case, Elipahlet Lewis, P. M.
Corbett, David
Costa, John
Casserly, William Wickham
Davy, Robert Ballard
Ellis, Charles Zenas
Ford, Tirey Lafayette
Forbes, Robert, P. M.
Galligan, Barney
Grant, Allan H.
Hartling, Valentine
Hartling, Valentine, Jr.
Hough, Joseph Zephaniah
Hunnicut, Ezra

Iglick, Samuel

Helmet, Victor Gustaf
Kieffer, Adam
Meyer, Henry Herman, P. M .
Morse, Horace Armsby
Morse, George Barrows
Pauley, Benjamin, P: M.
Quigley, Henry Edwin
Redding, William Irvin, P. M.
Shafer, John Booth
Shafer, Sheldon Woodruff
Shafer, Wiliam Henry
Smith, Stanley Andrew, P. M.
Thomas, Henry
·
Wagner, Lawrence Neilsen
Weil, John Joseph
Wehe, Francis Rumrill, P. M.
Winrod, Thomas Eli
Woessner, John
Young, George
-38
WITHDRAWN:
Spaulding, Henry
DIED:

Denmire, Aden

Stewart, Samuel Curtis

35

•

. OFFICERS:
Joseph Augustus Stites, Master,
Albert Mallett, Sen. Deacon,
Ralph E. Wilcox, Sen. Warden,
Joy Douglas Campbell, Jun. Deacon,
Wheeler Allen, Jun. Warden,
John William Moore, Marshal,
Frank S. Boggs, Treasurer,
Charles Royce Weston, Steward,
Isaac Henry Robinson, Secretary, Percy Moret-Qn Strong, S.teward,
Reuben Henry Sink, Chaplain,
John Rodney Gleison, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, William Willis
Chesnutwood, William Hartzell
Allen, Wheeler
Chichester, James Harvey
Arndt, Michael S.
Claiborne, Gilbert Burnett, P. G. M.
Arnold, Francis Clarence
Clark, .Fred Pope
Backes, Henry
Clark, Harry Isaac
Balta George
Clark, John Albert
Bargmann, Hermann Conrad, P. M. Coates, James York
Barnett, Henry Addison
Cobb, Frank Dyckman
Beach, Myron Nelson
Coleman, Elmer Davidson
Beringer, Benjamin Franklin
Craig, James Burr
Black, George Henry
Cramer, Edward Ernest
Boggs, l!,rank Shackelford
, Culver, Gilbert Caleb
Bottomley, Charles Monroe
Danner, Lewellyn Alexander
Bradford, Clark Campbell
Darby, Frank Erwin, P. M.
Bradford, George Hasock
Davidson, Adelbert Williams, P. M.
Briscoe, Henry Ferguson
Davies, William Abraham, P. G. M.
Broaddus, William Samuel
Davis, Gilbert Garrie
Brogan, Thomas William
Davis, Sylvester Byron
Brow.n, George Albert, Jr.
Deardorff, Edward Samuel
Buchanan, Louis Alexander
DeGuire, George Washington
Burgess, Wilford Harmon
DeVries, William Garland
Caine, John
Dickinson, Clarence Leroy
Campbell, Joy Douglas
Dickinson, Everett Clarence
Carrick, William Edward
Dickinson, George Henry
Cavis, Joseph William, P. M
Doran, Richard Emmet
Chalmers, Alexander, P. M.
Draper, Albert Nelson
Chalmers, Peter John
Dunbar, Sylvanus Gilman S., P. M.
Chapman, Fred Willis
Earle, Richard Thomas, P. M.
Chase, Aquilla Daniel
Elclridge, Edward Duane
Chase, George Walker
Elgan, Oliver Dayton

36

ROSTER.

Ewing, John Worthington Dorsey
Farnsworth, Clovis Alonzo
Finnell, Michael, P. M.
Frankenheimer, Louis Henry
Fraser, Philip Barry
Fredericks, Frank Henry
Fuller, Harry Reuben
Fussell, George
Gaines, Francis Albert
Garrison, Noel Hunt
Garwood, John
Gerdes, Herman Edward
Gerdes, Robert Anton
Gleeson, John Rodney
Godbold, John Henry
Goode, Benjamin Franklin
Goodell, George
Goodrum, Eugene F.
Goodrum, Frank Wilson, P. M.
Grider, John Carson
Gross, Edward Emil
Groves, Frederick William C.
Groves, Robert Henry
Hadcock, David
Hammond, Howard
Hammond, Robert Ray
Harrington, John Joseph
Harter, Glen George
Hatch, Charles Edward
Haven, Henry
Henderson, Robert William
Henery, George Porter
Henery, Samuel
Highland, James Robert
Hubbard, Ferdinand Bradley
Hunt, William Charles
Inglis, Robert
Jackson, Charles Moses, P. M.
Johnson, William Russell
Jones, Charles Judithan
Keniston, Charles Morrill, P. M.
Kennedy, Franklin Hayes
Kincaid, Fred Llewellyn
Kinnear, James Williard
Kirby, William Don

Kitchener, Samuel Al!lery
Klench, Daniel Lewis
Kroeckel, George
Kroyer, John Minor
Laggas, John
Langdon, Samuel Walter Ross
Lemmon, John Le Grand
Leonard, Cornelius .
Levinsky, Albert Leonard
Lewis, John Thom11s
Little, Samuel Giles
Littlehale, Sargent Smith, P. M.
Lorenz, William Henry
Luhr, William Frederick August
Lund, Andrew John
Lynch, Willis
Lynn, James William
Mallett, Albert
Maschek, Charles Herman
Matteson, John Joshua
Maxey, John D.
McKain, Fred J., P. M.
McLaren, John Cameron
McLaren, William Duncan
McLeod, John H.
Meyer, Fred Olin
Miller, Charles Warren, P. M.
Miller, Frank B., P. M.
Moore, George Franklin
Moore, John Williams
Moore, Royal T.
More, Albert Wallace
Morrison, Edwin Crane
Munger, Lucius Augustus
Needham, Harry Burr
Newell, James Henry
Newell, Sidney, P. M.
Oldham, Walter Thomas
Ors<1hler, Henry Mathias
Owen, Charles Edward
Owings, George Spencer
Parkinson, Oscar Bronson
Pattarga, James
Payne, David Rolland
Perry, John Marion

ROSTER.

..

Petzinger, Casper Rudolf
Phelps, Joseph Larose
Plummer, Brudnell Edward
Pollard, Fred Albert, P. M.
Pulen, Edward John
Putna·m, George Clinton
Quail, Frank Eugene
Quisenberry, Robert Lee
Richards, William Henry
Riddell, John Everett
Roberts, Val Arthur
Robinson, Isaac Henry, P. M.
Roche, Peter John
Root, Vernon Thomas
Ruggles, John Everett
Schlichtman, Claus, Jr.
Scofield, Francis Herbert
Scullen, John Fish
Shelford, Charles Vincent
Simpson, William McPayne
Sink, Reuben Henry, P. M.
Smallfield, Albert Augustus
Smith, 4-rthur David
Smith, Frank Hartford, P. M.
Smith, George Russell
Smith, James Webb
Smith, Richard Russell
Snell, George Hinman
Sperry, George Barker
Spurrier, Sherman Merriam
Stevens, George
Stewart, James Alpheus

Stites, Joseph Augustus
Stocker, Walter Wrightman
Stone, Edward Roger
Stone, William Henry
Strong, Percy Morton
Stroup, Randolph Clinton
Sutherland, George Wesley
Swain, John Anderson
Tatterson, George Watson
Tatterson, Arthur Potter
Taylor, Charles Albert
Thomas, William Bacon
Thompson, Thomas. Richard
Thresher, Minord Sprague, P. M.
Tillinghast, Joseph Henry
Tyner, Charles Gordon
-Yance, Charles Albert
Viebrock, Francis John
Wall, Wilber C.
Wallace, Benjamin Carpenter
Westbay, William Wesley
Weston, Charles Royce
White, Kellogg Albert
Wilcox, Ralph Eugene
Wood, Charles
Wood, William Walter
Woods, Samuel Moseley, P. M.
Woods, Ezekiel William S.
Wyman, Bernice A.
Yost, l<'rederick John
Young, Daniel" McLeod
-213

WITHDRAWN:
Baker, Walter

Boalt, Thomas Warren
Cowper-Thwait, Edward
DIED:

.....

Dickinson, Frank
Mienecke, Frederick

McCulloch, Alexander Andrew
Ruggles, Charles August
Williams, Evan

37

ROSTER.

38

WASHINGTON LODGE, No.

ROSTER.

20.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ellsworth Fred Duden, Master,
Rob'tson T. McKissick, Sen. Deaton,
T. H. Christianson, Sen. Warden, James Scott, Jim. Deacon,.
Fred'k W. Grider, Jun. Warden,
Herman Theo. Silvius, Marshal,
Charles Sumner King, Treasurer, Harry Richard Kiesseg, Steward,
Nathan Forrest Littlefield, Steward,
John Scott, Sceretary,
Wm. Henry Harrison Willey, Tyler.

Adams. Charles Ellwaru
Anderson, Alden
Arnold, Henry Waldeck
Ashworth, Edward Fletcher
Avery, Ira
Bates, Alfred
Block, Maurice
Bockrath, Herman Henry
Booth, Albert Porch
Boyd, Joseph Charles
Bock, George, P . M.
Brown, Alfred James
Breuner, Louis Frederick
Breuner, John
Brown, Clyde Horace
Busch, John
Butler, Henry Mills, P. M.
Burgess, George Washington
Campbell, Alden Wilson
Christianson, Thomas Henry
Cochrane, William, P. M.
Cohn, Aloysius Sylvester
Conran, Ira Milton
Dolan, John Henry, P. M.
Dunbar, Marcus William
Duden, Ellsworth Frederick
Ebert, George Ernest, P. M.
Edinger, Frank Austin

MEMBERS:
Ellis, David Gregory
Est£os, Robert Lee
Folger, Albert Gilbert
Gay, Remus Upton, P. M.
Gardner, Charles Francis
Gillis, Dugald Hall
Giusbcrg, Jacob
Gruhler, Jacob
Greer, Erskine
Gerber, William Emil, P. M.
Gerber, Edwin Henry
Grider, ~ederick Wilhelm
Grau, Herman William H.
Hall, Thomas Bertram
Hamilton, William Brown
Heilbron, Adolph
Hendricks, William Chalmers
Hickman, Frank
Hoag, William Moffatt
Hurley, John
Heisen, Charles, Jr., P. M.
Herr, Geo-.ge Benjamin
Jacobs, Julius Samuel
Johnston, James Waverly
Johnson, Hiram Warren
Johnson, Presley Beauregard, P. M.
Johnson, Phillip, P. M.
Kiesel, Frederick William, P M.

•

Kestler, Frederick Henry
Kleinsorge, Charles Edward
Klune, John Bernard
Kolliker, Frederick
King, Charles Sumner
Kiess~g, Harry Richard
Keene, Albert Edward
Lancastor, Frank W.
Littlefield, Nathan Forrest
Luce, John Couchman
Lund, John Peter
Lyke.ns, Preston Lodwick, P. M.
Madden, Jerome
McKee, Edwin Henry
McKillip, Charles William
Menken, Peter Heinrich
Miller, John Henry •
McMullin, Irving H.
Maslin, Prentiss
McKinnon, John Jenkins, P. M.
McKissick, Harrison Topp
Nathan, Henry Michael
Dehner, John
Potter, William Alfred, P. M.
Peart, Edmund Francheville
Peltier, George Wilfred

39

Pfund, Edward Franklin
Phillips, Charles Avery
Putnam, George Prescott
Pipher, Joseph Elmer
Prideau, Edwin
Royster, William Alexander
Sayre, William Abner, P. M.
Schwilk, Charles Frederiek
Smith, Sterling Wallace
Stillwell, Arthur Marriott
Straub, John
Silvius, Herman Theodore, P. M.
Snook, John Peter .
Scott, John
Scott, James
Tibbetts, George Rush
Wheat, James Montford
Waehhorst, Eugene Stuart
Watts, Pliny Rand
Willey, William Henry Harrison
Wood, Henry Clay
Wright, Charles Edward
West, }'rederick Willia~
Yardley, Herbert Edward
Young, John Nelles
-107

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:·
Crouch, Eugene Ackley
Johnson, Frank Taylor

DIED:
Rath, Elias

HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 2z.
Honolulu, Hawaiian ·Territory.
Stated Meetings, :first Monday in each monrh.
OFFICERS:
Frank Edward Thompson, Master, Henry Albert Taylor, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Thos. Rawlins, Sen. Warden, Willis Thos. Pope, Jun. Deacon,
Love Moller Vetlesen, Jun. Warden, Herbert Joseph Grindell, Marshal,
Robert Catton, Treasurer,
Harry Scott Gray, Ste'Ward,
Kenneth R. G. Wallace, Secretary, James R. M. MacLean, Steward,
Alexander Mackintosh, Chaplain,
J oshua Daniel Tucker, Tyler.

40

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Craig, John Henry
Crozier, Charles
Cummings, James Henry, Jr.
Cunha, Emanuel Silveria
Dart, Elbert Ripley
Davidson, Robert Morton
Deering, Augustus
Derby, Albert Jones, P. M.
Dickey, Charles William
Douglas, David
Dow, Herbert Manchester
Dowling, James Joseph
Duncan, Robert Andrew
Dun.shee, Herbert
Dyson, James
Ewart, George Robert
Ewart, George Robert, Jr.
Falk, Charles Jacob
Farnsworth, John
Faye, Hans Peter
Fernandez, Abraham
Foster, Henry Whitman
Foster, William Edward
Francis, John Wilson
Frazee, William Lincoln
Friel, James Louzada·
Giffard, Walter Montais
Gilman, Charles Henry
Gjerdrum, Kristian Sommerfeld
Godwin, William Henry
Gostick George Abram
Goudie, Frederick
Graham, William Montrose, P. M.
Gray, Harry Scott
Greenwood, Joseph Theodore
Gregory, Bion Samuel
Gregory, James
Greig, Geprge Bicknell
Greig, Norman
Grindell, Herbert Joseph
Grossman, Mose Edmund
Gurrey, Alfred Richard
Hair, Robert, P. M.
Hall, Charles Sumner

Ahrens, August
Alexander, William Douglas
Allerton, Charles Henry
Alvarez, Louis Fernandez
Arleigh, Augustus Bickel
Ashley, William George
Austin, Herbert Clark
Barnes, Albert
Bachelor, Job
·Battelle, Harry Thomas
Beal, Charles Ladd
Beckley, George Charles
Bindt, Frederick Martyn
Bond, Alfred Denmon
Boyd, James Harbottle
Boyd, William Wright
Bretteville, Anton Christopher E.
Bromley, Walter Hall
Brown, Edward Cook
Brown, George Watson
Buchly, Rudolf Johannes
Burniston, Rarry James
Campbell, Charles Jerome
Campbell, Herbert Moody
Campbell, John Thomas
Campbell, Marston
Campsie, William
Catton, Robert
Child, John Francis
Clair, Emille
Clark, William Augustus
Clarke, John Kirkwood
Cleghorn, Archibald Scott
Coffey, Asa Boyd
Conant, Elmer Ellsworth
Cook, Frank Beach
Gook, George Marshal
Cooley, Alfred Ernest
Cottrell, Charles Boutelle
Cooper, Charles Bryant
Counter, Moses Ruby
Coxhead, Albert Ernest
Coyne, Arthur
Crabbe, Clarence Linden
Crae!ius, John Frederick

ROSTER.

.

•

•

Halstead, Edgar
Halstead, Frank
Hapai, Henry Chase
Harrison, Arthur
Harris.on, Vincent Marmaduke
Heilbron, William
Herrick, Charles Frederick
Hewitt, George Clinton
Heye, Karl Werner
Hocking, Alfred
Hofgaard, Christopher Blom
Hoffm,an, Theodore
Holloway, Carl Sheldon
Holmes, Andrew
Holt, Bertram Griggs
Holt, John Dominis
Horswill, Charles Arthur
Howe, George Everett, P. M,
Hughes, Edwin
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Hyman, Joseph
Irwin, Chester
Isenberg, Daniel Paul Rice
Johnson, Christopher
Johnson, Milton Bowers
Johnson, William
Jones1 John Griffiths
Jones, John Walter
Jorgensen, J orgen
Jungelaus, Alfred Henry
Kaiser, Carl
King, Thomas James
Kruger, Frank Julius
Kruss, Emil Louis
Lakusta, Nicholas
Lamar, Peter Edward
Lando, Jacob
Langeheim, Ernest
Lansing Theodore F.
Lama.ch, Alexander D.
Laws, Henry
Levingston, Isador
Lewers, Robert
Lewis, Abraham, Jr., P. M.
Lewis, Freilerick Martin

Lewis, Edgar Louis
Lishman, Thomas Walker
Little, Joseph Musgrave, P. M.
Lloyd, Albert Edward
Logan, Arthur Conning
Lord; Edmund Joseph
Low, James Alfred
Lowrie, William James
Lucas, John
Lucas, Pierre Marie
Lucas, William T.
Lydecker, Robert Colfax
Lyons, Moses Timothy
Macintyre, Donald
Mackall, Bruce Mc V ean
MacKintosh, .Alexander, P. M.
MacKintosh, Cecil Arthur
Madeira, William Ives
Marcallino, John
Marquez, Charles Nicholas
Melanphy, John
Monsarrat, James Melville, P. M.
Morton, Henry Chesney
Myhre, Halvor
Myers, Jackson Randolph
McClellan, James
Mcintyre, Hugh Edward
McKeague, Robert Alexander
McKinnon, Joseph Malcolm
McNally, Charles Henry
McVeigh, John DeVive
Muller, John Julius
Nase, Barnabus Tilton
Naylor, James Alfred Anderson
Neill, John, P. M.
Newman, Bradford Norton
Noble, Arthu'r C.
Oat, Joseph Morton, P. M.
Olsson, Otto William
Orbell, Frank
Ouderkirk, John
Parker, Samuel
Paxson, Sumner Swisher
Peacock, Walter Chamberlain
Pedgrift, James Henry

41

42

•

ROSTER.

•

Smhldy, Jerome Joseph
Smith, Frederick Carlos
Smith, Thomas
Smith, William Graham
Soper, John Harris, P. M.
Spalding, Edward Irwin, P. M.
St. John-Gilbert, Oswald
Stolz, Frederico Leupold
Sutherland, James
Swan, Edmund
Taylor, Henry Albert
Thayer, Wade Warren
Thompson, Frank Edward
Tracy, Clifton Howard
Tripp, Alfred Newton
Thot, Juergen
Tucker, Joshua Daniel
\' enhuizen, John
Vetlesen, Love Moller
Waggoner, Bernard
Wagner, George Julius
Waldron, John William
Walker, John Smith
Wall, Arthur Frederick
Wall, Thomas Edward
Wallace, Kenneth Robert G.
Ward, George Edward
Waterman, Emil Joseph
Watkins, Norman
Wells, William Ira
Whitney, Benjamin
Whitney, Frederick, P. M.
Wilder, Gerrit Parmile
Wilder, Arthur Ashford
Willard, John David
Willgeroth, Heinrich
Williams, Charles
Wolf, Lee H.
Woodd, John Charles
Wood, Clifford Brown
Wootten, Henry George

Petersen, William Niclai
l'etrie, Lester
Pfluger, Henry Christian
Phillips, Mannie
Podmore, Robert Wood
Polmere, Nicholas John
Pope, Willis Thomas
Porter, Kirk Bancroft
Purdy, Hiram
Pratt, Alexander
Pratt, James William
Pressey, Milton Chester
Ramsay, Samuel Robert
Rankin, Guy Fawkes
Rasmussen, Jens Peter
Rawlins, William Thomas
Raymond, James Harvey
Read, Decker Jewett
Reedy, Ray B.
Renton, Henry Herbert
Rice, William Henry
Richardson, Frank .Edward
Riley, William Russel
Robinson, Mark Prever
Rodiek, Georg Friedrich
Rolph, George Morrison
Rostin, Louis Albert
Rothwell, John George, P. M.
Rowat, Allan Ritchie
Sachs, Nathaniel Sanders
Sanders, Milton Nelson
Schaefer, Frederick August
Schieber, Anton
Shaw, Walter Edward
Schlemmer, Maximillian
Schoening, Julius William
Scrimger, Charles Louis
Searle, John Bursnell
Searle, John Cooper
Siebecker, William Henry
Singlehurst, William Gibson
·.r.~

-261

ROSTER.

43

WITHDRAWN:
Durant, James Alvah
·Owens, Roy
Garver, Joshua Norris
Purdie, John Stewart
Grimwood, Frednick William
Ramsey, Samuel
Lyons,. Joseph
Rittenhouse, Charles J.
Moore, Charles Elijah
Weight, William

•
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bonner, George
Grimwood, Charles Pace
Braddfok, Oscar B.
Jordon, Frank Holloway
Curtis, G€orge Beeston
Norton, Charl€s Henry W.
Webster, Albert M.
DIED:
Brown, Andrew
Evans, G€orge Sc11ven

Nolte, Heinrich Julius
Ovenden, Henry Clare
White, William

OCCIDENT AL LODGE, No. 22.

•

San Francisco; San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each m()nth.
OFFICERS:
Samuel Henry Clawson, Master,
Walter K. Fletcher, Sen. Warden,
F. A. Houseworth, Jun. Warden,
Chas. Lyman Haskell, Treasurer,
Walter G. Anderson, Secretary,
Benj. Franklin Harville, Chaplain,

Robt. Raymond Vail, Sen. Deacon,
Orville C. Baldwin, Junior Deacon,
Arthur Hobart Hallovan, Marshal,
Herman Fowler Wilson, Steward,
Chas. Patterson Fonda, Steward,
George Theodore Fischer, Tyler,

MEMBERS:
Ahlborn, Charles Joseph Henry
Alderson, Frederick Lee
Allen, John Stevenson
Anderson, Walter Godfrey
Anderson, Winslow
Arnold, Henry Augustus
Ashworth, Frank Parker
Ast, ,Jacob Freduiek

Atwood, William Amos
Avery, Francis
Ayers, Willis Henry
Babb, Harry Ruben
Backus, Samuel Woolsey, P. M.
Bailey, Lewis Hamilton
Baker, Frank Elmer
Baldwin, Murray

ROSTER.
Bullock, John Henry
Baldwin, Orville Charles
Bullock, Russ Ransom
Ball, Edgar Franklin
Bullock, Thomas Seamon
Barber, George Brinton
Bultman, John Henry
Barlage, William Andrew
Burner, Henry, l'. M.
Barnes, James John
Bush, William John
Barnett, John Felix
Bush, Walter Nelson
Bauer, Christopher John
Buttle, William Frederick
Beadle, Alfred William
Byrne, Charles Francis
Beard, Joseph Charles
Cameron, John
Bebb, Joseph Crispia
Campbell, Robert Willis
Beckett, John
Campe, Henry Magnes
Beesey, Edmond
Capp, Charles Singer
Beede, Alexander Creighton
Cappelmann,' John Christian
Belden, Dan Falls
Carson, Robert Neddermark
Bell, Henry James Clark
Center, George Lillie
Bender, Paul August
Chapman, Edward Kirk
Benedict, Courtland Smith
Chapman, Frank
Benedict, Egbert Judson
Chapman, Frederick York
Bennett, John
Chesebrough, Andronicus
Berry, William Robert
Chesebrough, Henry Clay
Beatty, Henry Nixon
Cherry, Edward Martin
Bird, Harry
Chipman, . William Farragut
Black, Robert C.
Christensen,. John Peter
Blair, Harry Napheys
Clark, Edwin Charles
Blair, Ralph Kirkham
Clarli, William Franci,:
Blakeslee, Frederick Alphonso
Classen, John William
Blanton, John S.
Clawson, Samuel Henry
Bliss, Charles
Clayes, Wellington Irwin
Bligh, Thomas John, Jr.
Clift, Charles Warren
Boeckman, Frederick Charles
Clow, John Austin
Bogen, Harry Walter
Cochran, Hugh McCauley
Boyd, John D.
Cole, John Richard
Bradford, Wallace
Collins, Frederick Richard
Brinkman, August Frederick
Collins, George William
Brittan, William Giles
Collins, Richard Merithew
Bronson, Frithjoy
Comely, Charles John
Brown, Alonzo Fitch
Cookson, William Bonsall
Brown, Andrew Alexander
Countryman, Robert Harmer, l'. M.
Brown, Amazon Henry
Crane, Henry Adolphus
Brown, Harry Daniel
Cressey, Frank Albert
Brown, Christopher Robert, l'. M.
Crookshank, Arthur Henry
Brownell, James Samuel
Crossley, Leonard Valentine
Bryan, William John
Curtis, Charles Mosses
Bryan, William Vose, P. M.
Cutting, Henry Colman
Buckbee, Spencer Cone

ROSTER.

•

Daggett, Almore Keith
Daggett, William Albertis
Damon, George Dimick
Damon, Marshall Nye
Davidson, Joseph Robertson
Davis, Richard D.
Davis, William Winters
Day, Charles Thurber
Deahl, John Linden
Dean, Walter Edwin
Decker, Peter
DeGear, Warren Jackson
Delger, Edward Frederick, l'. M.
Denniston, Edward Gere
Derby, Albert Tirrell
Derby, John
DeSilva, Manuel Maria
Devlin, Thomas Daren
Dillman, George
Dillman, George Paul
Dittmann, Richard William
Dole, Walter Wooderson
Dow, George Alva
Downes, C. S.
Drew, George Warren, P. M.
Drown, Williain Benjamin
Dryselius, Erland
Duebel, Charles
Dugan, Herbert Frank
Dunn, Ritchie Livingston
Durbro.w, Harry
Dusinbury, John Benjamin
Eastman, '.I homas Freeman
Edson, Benjamin
Edwards, Dwight
Edwards, Eugene Hammond
Edwards, William
Eva, William John
Evans, Albert S.
Ewen, John Sangster
Ewing, Samuel McGregor
Faymonville, Bernard
Ferguson, Oscar Henry
Field, Alfred Bishop
Field, Frederick Howard

Fischer, George Theod11re
Fitzsimmons, James Calvin
Fletcher, George William
Fletcher, Walter Kimball
Fonda, Charles Patterson
Fonda, Henry Stuart
Fonda, Walter Gibbs
Formhals, Ferdinand
Foulkes, Edward William
Fraser, William Edward
Fredericks, Charles Edwin
French, Wheeler Nichols
Freon, Joseph Vigilus
· F'reyer, Edward
Frye, John Winslow
Fulmer, Walter Wilton
Gabbs, Milton F'rancis
Gable, Herbert Aaron
Gage, ,William Stebbins
Gallagher, John Patrick
Gamble, Edward Lee
Geary, William
Gedge, Harry Edward
Gibbs, Nathan Henry
Gibson, George Robert
Ginaca, Henry Gabrill
Gleaves, James Malcolm, l'. M.
Glidden, William Boardman
Gompertz, Charles William
Gonzalez, Felix Francisco
Goold, Edward Louis
Gordon, Phil Kearney
Graham, Robert Jackson
Graham, William Sutphen
Grannis, Frederick Roscoe
Graupner, Adolphus Ehrhardt
Gray, Clarence Harlow
Gray, William Brown
Green, Jonathan
Groat, Charles Frazier
Growall, Willard Lawrence
Gunn, Benjamin McKay
Hall, Milton Rider
Hall, Otho Norris
Hallovan, Joseph Francis

45

46
Hallovan, Arthur Hobart
Halverson, Christian
Hammersmith, John Anthony
Hannan, David
Hansen, C. Theodore
Hanson, Peter Hjalmar
Hanson, William Henry
Harding, David Webster
Harding, Ralph Judd
Hardy Sumner
Harker, Oliver Albert
Harmes, Joseph Theodore
Harpham, Lee Wheeler
Harris, Jerome Omberson
Hart, Marcus
Harville, Benjamin Franklin
Haskell, Charles Lyman, P. M.
Haste, Julius Alexander
Hastings, Philip
Hatfield, Arthur George
Hatt, Albert Edward, Jr.
Haver, Philys John
Haviside, John Joseph
Havner, James Randall
Hawkins, Edward Kendrick
Henderson, John Wesley
Hendy, John Harris
Heidt, Wesley
Hewitt, Edward Thomas
Hewitt, William Alexander
Heyer, Charl£s William
Hickman, Newton Heylin
Higgins, Rufus Milton
Hill, Charles Barton
Hillyer, Curtis
Hindes, Edward Brooks
Hink, Frederick Benjamin
.Hitchcock, Daniel Webster
Hobart, Ralph Willis
Hodghead, David Alexander
Holbrook, Charles Henry
Holmes, Howard Carlton
Holton, Luther Janna
Rolson, John Edward
Hopps, Harry Ryle

ROSTER.
llorne, Charles Henry
Hornschuch, Lawrence Charles
Horton, William Arthur
Houseworth, Frederick Arthur
Houseworth, Harrison
Howard, Albert Louis
Howard, Douglas Carlton
Humphreys, William Penn
Hunter, Charles Harris
Huse, Charles Gammon
Hutton, Andrew Houston
lsham, John Henry
Iversen, Chester Arthur
Ives, George Isaacs
Jackson, Stanley
Jagger, Henry Corbett, Jr.
Jaynes, Frank
Jenks, George Henry, P. M.
Jensen, Harry Christian
Jensen, John "William Diblef
Johnson, Petter Henry
Joly, Oscar Joseph
Jones, William Stuart
Kaehler, George Alfred Ernest
Kahl, Charles Wesley
Kaina, Archibald
Kammerer, George Edward
Kellogg, Frank Harvey
Kellogg, Paul Frank
Kelly, Richard Edward
Kerr, James Watt
Kern, William H.
Key, John Walter
Keyes, Frank Hancock
King, Charles Andrew
King, George Rufus
King, Louis Daniel
Kinney, Marshall Johnson
Kirk, Albert Wellington
Kirsch, George Hans
Kittredge, Spencer Bigelow
Klarmann, George
Klein, Louis J.
Klitgaard, Chris Fred N.
Klumpp, Otto Henry

ROSTER.
Knechler, Henry Norbury
Korten, Edwin B. D.
Korte, Benjamin Frederick
Lackmann, Ernest August
Lackmann, John Chris D'h
Lanewig, Arthur Edward
Lafitte, Jacques de L.
Large, Charles Franklin
Landers, Edward
Landis, Edward Caspar, P. M.
Lanfare, Clair Ford
Larsen, Anton Ludvig
Larsen, Bengt. John
Laurence, Arthur Cornwall
J,awson, John Christian
Leach, George Wonson
Leavitt, Albion Eastman
Leavitt, William Cowles
Lee, Albert Edward
Lee, Francis Valentine T.
Lee, John
Lee, Roy Abraham
Lee, William Grant .
L eggat, William Alexander
Lehners, Frederick Emil
Lewis, Frank Rodman
Lilienthal, Ernest Reuben
Locksteadt, Louis
Long, Herbert Clifton
Lovejoy, John Hinton
Low, George Beanston
Low, George Perley
Low, Josiah Orme
Lundy, Aaron Linton
Lyman, Charles, P. M.
Macbeth, Frank David
Macdonald, William, P. M.
Mace, Lewis Sayrie
Mackall, Benjamin Franklin
MacManus, Walter F.
Mallott, Watson Howard
Mathis, Theophilus Smith
Martin, Alexander
Matthey, Robert Henry
:Manran, Joseph Russell

Merrill, Elijah Iied<ling
Merrill, James William
McArthur, Alexander
McCahon, George
McCurdy, Marcy
McDowell, Archibald Eugene
McEwen, John Jardine
McGinnis, Robert John
McGowan, Frank
McKinlay, James
McMahon, Cal Clarke
McManus, John Joseph
McNutt, William Fletcher
McNutt, William Fletcher, ·Jr.
McRoskey, Edward Lawrence
McRoskey, Leonard Henry
Miehling, George Sebastian
Mierdierks, William Augustus
Miles, David Edwin, P. M.
Miller, Charles Nicholas
Millu, Joseph Aloia
Millu, Richard Elgin
Miller, Thurlow Spragge
Miller, William Henry
Miller, William Penn
Miller, William S.
Mills, John Swinburne
Mitchell, Edward Henry
Mitchell, William Edwin
Mobley, William Thomas
Moebus, Fred. William Gus, P. M.Moffatt, Walter Lindsay
Moffitt, Albert Hubbard
Moore, Avard Joseph
Morse, Albert Garrish
Morgenstern, Alfred Louis
Mulford, Thomas Whited
Murphy, Charles Henry, P. M .
Murray, Hugh
Myers, Robert Carling
Nagle, Alfred .John
"Nelson, Charles
Newman, Charles James
Newman, Robert Edwin
Newman, William

47

48

Norris John Roosevelt
Oakle;, Edward David
Olsen, Frederick Henry
Orcutt, William Henry
Osborn, Russell Wight
Osborne, James Stuart
Osmunn, William Finley H.
Olsen, Alfred
Packham, Thomas George
Page Frank William
Pattison, Charles Frederick
Penn, Charles Samuel
Penniman, Charles Wood
Pernan, Henry Frank
Peters, John Frederick Frank
Peters, William
Peterson, Frank Baltzer
Petersen, Nes Peter
.
Pfeiffer William Frederick
Philbri;k, Everett David
Philbrick, Walter Jacob
Phillips, Robert Bonsall
Pickney, Thomas Cochran
Pratt, Othello Curtis
Pratt zenas Campbell
Prellberg, Charles William
Prior, Clark Churchill
Prior, John Lewis
Purdy, John Elbridge, P. M.
Purlenky, George Carl
Purlenky, George Philip
Quimby, Leon Shirley
Quinn, William Henry
Radovich, Bozo .
Raisch, Fred
Rees, William John
Reichert, Theodore
Richards, Stephen Henry
Richardson, George Worth
Richardson, Walter Scott
Read, Emerson Worrell
Remmel, Bert Engles
Robertson, John Harvey
Robinson, Arthur
Robinson, Samuel

ROSTER.
Rogers, John Boxter
Rogers, William Augustus
Rohl:ffs Walter Vogt
Rohrh:nd, Charles William
Romaine, William
Root, George Washington
Rosengran, John Herman ·
Rudolph, John Charles
Rumpf, Frank Joseph
Russ, Henry Stanford
Sage, Orlando Gustavus
Saleh, George Charles .
Sanborn, William David
Savage, Michael Joseph, P. M.
Schieck, John Charles
Schmidt, Herman August Theodore
Schnoor, Charles Otto
Schouten, John Wesley
.
Schreiber, William Au. Martin
Schultz, Charles
Schwerin, Henry William
Scott, Clarence Sydney
Scott, George Mearns
Scott, Walter Day
Segelhorst, Louis
Seiferd, James Frederick
Severs, Ernest Davies
Schanabrook, William Stark
Sharp, James Cohen
Sharp, Edwin Clinton
Sharts, Alton J.
Sherman, Frank Potter
Shields, Frank Duncan
Simpson, Henry Robert
Sinclair, John William
Skinner, John Charles
Sleeper, Charles
Smith, Grant Ward
Smith, James Jerome
Smith, William Alexander
Smith, William
Snedaker, William Harvey
Snook, James Athearn, P. M.
Sorenson, Charles Made
Southard, Carroll 0 'Brien

ROSTER.
Spencer, George Willis
Spotswood, Robert Henry
Spotswood, William James
Spriggs, Leon Walter
Squires, George DeForrest
Staude, Fred
Staude, John
Stauffacher, Charles William
Steiger, Louis A.
Stewart, Boandon
Stone, Walter Somers
Suter, Daniel
Taylor, Howard Prentice, Jr.
Taylor, John Brinkwor~h
T'Beck, William
Terwilliger, Newton Clark
'l'homas, Edward Jennings, P. M.
'l'hompson, Joseph
Thompson, Peter
Thompson, Walter Simeon
Thornton, Bruce Patrick
Tibbey, Frederick Milton
Tilton, Robert Fletcher
Tourney, George
Trampleasure, Thomas Edward
Teague, Ralph Allen
Travis, Edward Charles
Trevor, Henry
Tucker, Edwin Stanley
Turner, Allison Howard
Turner, George Webster
Tyson, James
Tyson, Mitchell
Tyson, Robert James
Uglow, Arthur Whitburn
Upton, Thomas Bennett
Cox, Walter

Vail, Robert Raymond
Van Court, DeWitt Carroll
Van Winkle, Pierre S., Jr.
Venable, Joseph Gibbon
Volkhardt, Frederick August
Vradenburg, Preston Hickok
Wadham, Lyman
Ward, John Emmett, Jr.
Warren, William True
Watkins, William Hartley
Webster, Henry John
Webster, John Henry
Weeden, Henry Frank
Weinmann, Louis
West, Frank A.
Wetjen, Cord
White, Lovell
White, Roy Samuel
Wieland, Albert Gustav
Wilcox, William Darius
Willett, Walter Marinus
Williams, Charles Frederick
Williams, Oscar
Williams, William Alfred
Wilson, Charles Woodworth
Wilson, Herman Fowler
Wilson, James Knox Polk, P. M.
Wilson, Carl Traves
Wimmer, George Washington
Winterburn, Joseph
Wise, Robert Alma
Wise, 'Thomas Clark
Wiswell, Edward Smith
Wright, George Judson
Woodlock, John, P. M.
-537

WITHDRAWN:
Heckman, James Robert
Tuttle, James William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Arnold, Ernest Benjamin
Van Horn, John Howard
Blib'h, Thomas John, Sr.
Wells, Robert Huntington
Grannis, James Gerald
Wise, Thomas Clark
4

49

ROSTER.
50

51

ROSTER.

DIED:
Freund, Otto
Flanders, Nathan
J,arsen, George
Flint, Brilsford Pease, P. M.
Mantle, Byron Gillett
Forbes, Charles
McMann, Thomas

•
MADISON LODGE, No. 2 3·
Grass Valley, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each mY .~h.

OFFICERS:
John Davey, Sen. Deacon,
Bennett Opie, Master,
Wm. John Peters, Jun. Deacotl,
Matthew w. Argall, S en. Warden,
Theo. Henry Wilhelm, Marshal.
Geo. Louis Jones, Jun. Warden,
Henry Rollo Walker, Steward,
John Glasson, Treasurer,
Harry Libby Body, Steward,
Wm. David Harris, Secretary,
Richard Caddy, Tyler.
William Edwards, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Caddy, Richard
Andrews, James
Care, Thomas John
Aver, Frank, P. M.
Clinch, Charles Edward
Angove, Jeremiah
Campbell, George
Argall, Matthew Henry
Curnow, William
Argall, Matthew Whilkin
Coftin, Oscar Lewis
Argall, William John
Dorsey, Samuel Packwoo<l
Armstrong, William Isiah
Dunstan, William
Bennallack, Joseph
Dodge, John Lewis
Brown, James W.
Daniels, Henry
Barker, Charles
Davies, David
.Body, William Christopher Dart
Davies, Richard
Berriman, Thomas Henry
Deeble, Daniel
Berriman, William Samuel
Ducotey, Frank
Bartell, Joseph
Davey, John
Body, Harry Libby
Evans, rrhomas
Brockington, Charles Aaron
Edwards, William, P. M.
Coombe, William, P. M.
Fuchs, Henry
Coleman, John Crisp, P. M.
Frank, Robert John
Coleman, Edward, P. M.
Granger, Samuel
Condy, Herbert Richard
Glasson, John, P. M.
Cooper, Arthur

•

Gates, James Henry
George, Richard Henry
George, Albert Grant
Gill, Arthur Lyonel
Grenfell, William John
Green, Henry
Griffin, George
Haack, Ernest Herman
Haas, Isidor
Harn, Richard Kimball
Hattam, Joseph
Hicks, John
Harris, Elmer Mills
Harris, William David
liarris, Thomas Milton
Hawley, William Alexander, P. M.
Hooper, James
Hosken, William Henry
Hosking, Albert James
Hutchins, Robert Jewett
Ingram, Thomas, P. M.
Johnston, Peter
Jenkins, Alfred
Jenkins, Jabez Arthur
Jones, George Louis
Jones, John Taylor
Jones, Robert
Kinsman, John
Kinsman, Alfred
Kohler, Theodore A.
Lewis, John
Leatham, John Tonkin
Lord, William Goyne
Larue, Lloyd Palmer
Maddrill, Charles Edward
Maddrill, James Henry
Martin, William Philip
Matteson, David Edwin
Matteson, Edwin Stanley
McDougall, William
Michell, Paul Wesley, P. M.
Michell, Thomas John, P. M.
Miller, Fred Manning
Morgan, Harry Elmer

Northway, John
Nettle, Charles Henry
Nicholas, Isaac
Oliver, William Phillips
OpiP, Bennett, P. M.
Othet, Charles Franklin
Peers, Joseph
Phillips, John
Peterson, Andrew Gustaf
Perkin, John
Pearce, Thomas Jenkyn
Prisk, William Frederick
!'risk, Charles Henry
Prisk, Henry
Peters, William John
Richards, Edward Ingram
Roberts, John Edward
Roger8, William James
Root, Orvillfl Hurd,
Rowe, James· Jenkin
Ralph, Philip Henry
Sanders, John
Sears, Paul Stickney
Sleep, William Albert
Smith, Charles B.
Stein, Isidor
Stein, Wolf
Smart, Eben Knight
Stoddard, George Hill
'l'homas, Frederick James
'l'homas, William
Tremewan, George Charles
Trotter, George Thomas
ryrrell, James c.
Vincent, George
Walker, Henry Rollo
Werry, John
Wilhelm, Theodore Henry, P. M.
Williams, Joseph Edward
Williams, William Charles
Williams, William Henry
Winn, William
Zaph, Carl H.
Zipf, John Philip
-130

'·

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

52

Farra:r, Charles Ernest
Holman, Francis C.

WITHDRAWN:
Whiting, Fred J.
Stone, Marion Pierce

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Pascoe, John Henry
Bishop, William Crase

Bryan, David
Coombs, William

•

DIED :
Davey, Charles
Mitchell, Charles Henry

Lind," Carl Gustaf, Jr.
Ll!-1'ew, John Snidow, P. M.
Larew, James Alexander
Ludwig, John Daniel
Milburn, William Charles
McElligott, James Patrick
Nice, George Ernest
Robinson, · George Henley
Smith, William
Schlageter, Frederick Temple

Davanay, Rugh
Lind, Carl Gustaf, Sr.

MARIPOSA LODGE, No. 24.
Mariposa, :Mariposa County.

Schlageter, Frederick William P.M.
Schillillg, Frederick
'
Speraro, Angelo
Sharp, Lewis Walter
Trabucco, Frank Thomas
Tretheway, John Thomas
'l'rewill, Peter
Wason, Edward Putnam, ..-.M.
n
W
estfall, Joel Jackson
-51

WITHDRAWN:
Merrilees, John Mason.

Reger, Alma Jacob

DIED:
Lind, John Rowell
Potthast, Frank
Lind, Thomas Temple

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding F11.!l Moon.
OFFICERS:

GEORGETOWN LODGE, No. 25 .

Larentius A. C. H . Kylberg, Master, Frank A. Bondshu, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas Dale, Sen . Warden,
Peter Trewin, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Lee Bennett, hm. Warden,Fred'k Wm. Schlageter, Marshal,
James Barnett, Treasurer,
Carl Gustaf Lind, Steward,
John Snidow Larew, Secretary,
George Ernest Nice, Steward,
Thos. McCready Farnsworth, Tyler.

Georgetown, El Dorado County.

MEMBERS:
Ferguson, Samuel Riles
Austin, Henry Clay
1''oley, Daniel Joseph
Barnett, James
Gonzales, Manuel
Bennett, Frederick Lee
Gibbs, Carl Scott
Bondshu, Frank Albert
Gilbert, James Arthur
Clark, Joseph
Rulemann, Henry Nicklas
Cronin_, Timothy Joseph
Hill, John
Craighan, James Duffy, P. :M.
Haseltine, Richard Snell
Champion, Stephen James
Johns, Samuel Joseph, P. :M.
Cavin, William Hayse
Johns, Trevenen James
Clow, Nelson Lawrence
Jenkins, Richard May
Dale, Thomas
Kinchin, Peter
Dunn, James Neil
Kenney, George Martin Francis
Dullenty, Edward
Kylerg, Larentiue Adam C. H.
Edwards, William Charles
Langley, Arnold Seymour
1''arnsworth, Thomae McCready
Leitch, Bruce MeAlpin
Farnsworth, Walter Scott

Stat~d

Meetillgs, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Edward Jerrett Master
w·1r
Isaac Grinnell Swift Sen' W d,
S I iam J. Woods, Sen. Deaco1'
'
· ar en
amuel W C0 11·
'
Charles Schultz Jun W · d
'
·
ms, Jun. Deacon
•
·
ar en
Harry M G
•
Wm. Simpson Hickman T
'
H
· rover, Marshal,
Geo. Henry Heuser, Se~ret:easurer. Gerbert ~- Dobbas, Steward,
ry,
eorge Srmpson Steward
James Francis Walk, Tyler. '
'

• •

••

53

MEMBERS:
Beattie, Christopher
Fillippini, Rinaldo
~enjamin, Clinton Elisha
Fredericks, William
Barbee, Charles Platt
Gordan, John Cummings
Buckman, William Al vin,
· p . M•
Grover, Harry Morris, P. M.
Cozad, Oscar Al.
Grover, Orrin Scripture
Darling, Charles
Grover, Walter Nevada
Diehl, Sandford David, P. M.
Grant, George Lincoln
Dobbas, Herbert Bitalum
Glasson, Josiah
Dotta, Lodovico
Hickn~an, William Simpson_. P. M.

ROSTER.

55

ROSTER.

54
Hayden, Asia Thurston
Heuser, George Henry
Jerrett, Charles Edward, P. M.
Johns, John
Langley, Charles Hinton
Lawyer, Frank Wilber
Lovejoy, Loriston Hale
Lovejoy, Thatcher Townsend
Martin, Herbert Sargent, P. M.
Myers, Lewis Lane
Noble, Robert
Presby, Alvin Moore, P. M.
Peters, Benjamin Leon
Reedshaw, William John

Bishop, John
Hersey, Columbus Soule

Rodetti, Franeiseo
Shepherd, Benjamin Franklin
.
Simpers, George Washington, P. :M.
Simpson, George Custer
Sturman, Sidney Grant
Stevenson, Thomas
Swift, Isaae Grinnell, P. M
Walk, James Francie
Walker, Adolph H enry
Wade, John, P. :M.
Ware, John Adrian
White, Albert" Clarence
White, Louis, P. M.
-4G
Wood, William James

•

DIED:
Rich, John Colby
White, Joseph Fullerton

PALMYRA LODGE, No. 26.

•

Placerville, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Theo Charles Atwood, Master,
Arthur J. Koletzke, Sen. Deacon,
Thos. Fielding Lewis, Sen. Warden, Chas. Edw. Hand, Jun. Deacon,
John. Edw. Kern, hn. Warden,
Louis Ada~ Reeg, Marshal,
Shelley Inch, Sr., Trec;surer,
Robert Blair, Steward,
Chas. Hen. Weatherwax, Secretary, Henry ·Hardie Tracy, Stew;rf'
Michael Mayer, Chaplain,
Jas. Lambert Weymouth, Yer.

Ashcroft, Henry
Avansino, Nicolo
Alderson, Richard ·
Allen, John Page
Atwood, Theodore Charles
Arnot, Nathaniel Dubois
Banning, Andrew Course
Boulden, Thomas

MEMBERS:
Beach, Seth Gibbs, P. :M.
Ball, Albert
Butts, Lowery Taylor
Barney, William
Baum, Rudolph Waldermar
Board, .James
Blair, Robert
Blair, James Blackwood

• •

• •

Blair, Robert William
Hand, Charles Edward
Blakeley, Auburn James
Hardie, Thomae Oswald
Blakeley, George Lincoln
Harris, Richard Corey
Blakeley, Robert Franklin
Heiser, Joseph
Bland, William
Henderson, Alexander Duncan
Brooks, Adam
Hofmeister, George
Hogan, Charles
Barss, Frederick Ferdinand, P. M.
Burnham, George Huntington, P. M.Hogan, John Keeler
Bosquet, Dallas. Archibald
Hogan, Philip Barringer
Brown, William Marcellus
Huffman, George B.
Bechtel, Warren A.
Hughes, Marshall
Boyd, Thomas Parker
Hungerford, Frank Mason
Coffin, Oliver
Inch, Shelley, Sr., P. M.
Combellack, John
Inch, Shelley O., Jr.
Uombellack, William •
Jones, Adial Sabin
Campini, James Girlocomo
Jones, William Albion
Campini, Vincent James
Jones, John Charles
Collins; Walter Eugene
Kohlert, John
Creighton, James Samuel
Kohn, Nathan Leopold
Kyser, James· Peter, P. M.
Cain, Lemuel Barnett
Carr, Daniel George
Kern, John Edward
Celio, Carlo Gueseppe
King, George Carol
Clark, Thomas
Kolefake, Arthur James
Clark, George Murray
Limpinsel, John Frederick
Cook, Earl Lewis
La Rue, John Samuel
Culbertson, Andrew Thompson
Lewis, Thomas Feilding
Culbertson1 Frank Andrew
Madden, William Charles
Cote, Phileas
Mason, Benjamin Dorsey
Cleese, John Peter
Mack, George Franklin, P. M.
Duncan, Albert Henry
Miller, John Wesley
Dunton, Charles Henry
Marchini, Marco
Mierson, Max, P. M.
Davis, Edward Albert
Day, John Martin
MacKenzie, William Ernest
Day, Robert Newton
Macomber, David Wheeler, P. M.
Martin, Frederick Courier
Duden, William Calvin
Ewert, Emil
Mayer, Michael
Fisher, Frederick William
McAfee, Alexander Lewis
Fitch, Oscar Plank
McCarty, Thomas Emmett
Fox, Albert Sherman
McCoy, William Augustus
Frick, Walter Paul
McKee, George Washington, P. M.
Gee, Frederick William, P. M.
McKee, Joseph Fulton
Greeley, Albert Henry
McLaughlin, James Michael, P. M.
Gruben, Bernard
Meehan, Marcellus Quintin
Green, Edwin
Morey, Frank Henry
~oodrich, Don H.
Morey, Henry Sylvester

56

Morris, Oliver Vinton, P. M.
Miller, Walter Elmer
Morton, Oliver Leonard
Mann, Oscar Arthur
Mund, Frank
Olmst.ead, Sheldon Patterson
Owen, Joseph Frederick
Ortman, Fred
Pascoe, John
Patterson, Robert Pagan, P. M.
Pearson, John, P. M.
Piaggi, Eugene
Pinneo, Oscar Elgin
Plu=er, Howard Clark
Perryman, Frederick William
Rayburn, Charles
Rupley, Theodore
Richards, Charles Thomas
Richards, William James
Richards, James
Rantz, Stephen Hester, P . M.
Rolleri, George Charles
Reeg, Louis Adam, P. M.
Robles, Oscar
Rupley, John Bernard
Sumner, William Henry
Sheldon, Henry Bradley
Schroeder, Carl Herman
Simon, David Samuel
Smith, Edward Lamar

Barlow, George Washington
Blair, John
Evins, Jehu
Ferington, Charles U.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

TRINITY LODGE, No. 27.

Smith, John Adam
Smith, Wilson Clate
Swisler, Charles Albert
Stinson, William Harrison
Streeter, George Washington
Tacchino, Vincenzo
'l'hompson, John William
Theisen, John
Tracy, Perry Spencer
Tracy, Henry Hardie
Varozza, Giacomo
Varozza, Marco
Varozza, Rico
Van Voorhies, Ralph Josiah
Watt, Peter
Weymouth, James Lambert
Weymouth, Stephen James
W eyma.n, William
Wilson, Stephen Britton
Webb, Jean Francis, Jr.
Walling, Horace Herbert
Waters, John Nicholls
Weatherwax, Charles Henry
Witmer, Elam Washington
Wires, Albert Melville
Whittier, William Jeremiah
Whitney, James Palache
Young, Perly Andrew
Young, Francis E=ett

Weaverville, Trinity County.
Stated M.e etings, last Saturday of each month.
OFFICERS:

•

-165
DIED:
Loveless, Seth
Muffley, William Napp
Ralph, Thomas
Skinner, John Dodd

William Irving Hupp, Master,
Robert Lee Carter, Sen. Deacon,
Fred'k C. Meckel, Sen. Warden,
Wm. Ware Young, Jun. Deacon,
Morris Aug. Brady, Jun. Warden, David Blackstone Fields, Marshal,
Peter Minert Paulsen, Treasurer,
Geo. Fred'k Gehm, Steward,
Detlef Hansen, Secretar'!f,
Griffith T. Davis, Steward,
Johann Henrich Bremer, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Blake, Selden Lafayette
Hupp, James Wiley
Bremer, John Henry
Hall, Henry Maurice
Barnickel, Bernard
Harnett, John Abraham
Bremer, August Frederick
Hollingsworth, Frank Orville
Brady, Morris Augustus
Jones, Theodore Elden, P. M.
Carter, Robert Lee
Lowden, William Spencer
Cass, Charles Lucien
Lowden, Henry Larkin, P. M.
Carr, George Lee
Leonard, Henry William
Cummings, James
LaBaree, William Hersey, P. M.
Cummings, Robert Fulton
Mason, John Clifton, P. M.
Condon, William
Meckel, Frederick Christian
Dannenbrink, William Frederick
Meckel, John Weinheimer
Davis, Griffith T.
Mortimer, Washington
Dimock, Frank Leslie
Paulsen, Charles
Edwards, William Rose
Paulsen; Henry William
Fetzer, Albert John
Paulsen, Peter Minert
Fields, David Blackstone
Paulsen, Albert Lincoln
Flagg, Jacob Redding
Paulsen, Arthur Edwin
Flourand, Mathiere
Reed, Benjamin Hayden
Goetze, Henry William
Shand, John Erlward
Goetze, William Adolph
Shuford, John William
Given, Horace Robert
Smith, Jeremiah
Goodyear, Charles Eugene
Smith, John Huron
Gehm, George Frederick
Tourtellotte, Jesse Francis
Halfiey, Frederick Huston
Van Matre, John Chandler
Ha=erberg, Gustaf
Van Matre, George
Hansen, Detlef, P. M.
Vollmers, William
Haskin, Albert P.
Wilson, James
Hass, Frederick Gotlieb
Waste, Jesse Jackson
Hays, Hiralll Bennett
Young, William Ware
Hupp, William Irving, P. M.
Zarli, Frederick
-62

57

58

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

DIED:
Schall, John Lewis
Uarter, John Walker
Swift, Edward Dexter
Personette, Moses William
Rowles, Jam€S

,

•

GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wm. Wallace Thompson, Master,
Wm. Henry Hindle, Sen. Deacon,
Abraham S. Sullivan, Sen. Warden, Aug. Ferdinand Heuer, Jun. Deacon,
Franklin R. Haley, Jun . Warden,
William G. Bluhm, Marshal,
Chas. Aug. Wegener, Treasurer,
Paul Robert Bjick, Steward,
Edwin Lewis Meyer, Secretary,
Richard J. H. Forbes, Steward,.
Wm. Schuyler Moses, Chaplain,
John D'Arcy, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ackerman, Charles Herman
Baar, James Lausen
Adcock, Charles Edmund
Backus, Charles
Agard, William Antoine Todd, P. M.Baird, Frederick Guernsey
Barnes, Joshua Daniel
Ahlquist, Frans Wiktar
Battalora, Felix, Jr.
Aigeltinger, Edward Hugo
Beardsley, Edwin Willis
Airey, Robert Joseph, P. M.
Beck, John Elof
Aitken, James
Beckett, Hugh Reid
Allen, Joseph William Everett
Bennett, James Henry
Alberts, Carl
Berg, Gustave
Allison, Thomas Sydney
Bergman, Adolph
Andersen, Charles
Bernhard, John
Anderson, Andrew
Bjick, Paul Robert
Anderson, Carl
Blakeway, John Henry
Anderson, Harvey Derious
Bleie, John Arneson
Anderson, He.rman
Bluhm, William George
Andres, George Samuel
Blyth, Henry, Jr.
Andrews, Lewis Titcomb
Blyth, William J;ohn
Ard, Edwar<l James
BolgC'r, James
Armes, Georg.e Arthur
Bollo, Atilio Peter
Armistead, Cecil Miller
Bollo, Mario George
Aspe, John William
Born, Ernest Otto
Atkinson, John Robert

(

•

•

Born, Julius Adolph Theodore
Bowes, John Edward
Bowren, Charles
Brady, Edward Robert
Breckenridge, William Jamieson
Brow:r';, John
Brumfield, William Cleney
Brunl:;rook, Amura Francois
Brunig, Robert
Brust, Joseph Peter
·Bullock, Fred Duncan
Bundesen, Boy
Burnham, Francis Mortimer
Burson, David Hugh
Cairns, John Thorburn
Cameron, Wallace Davenport
Canney, Frederick Gilmore
Cantin, Alexander Aimwell
Cantley, James
Carlsen, Axel Theodore
Carlson, Johan Hilmer
Carlson, Otto Wilhelm
Carnegie, John
Christian, Caesar
Christie, Henry Pithie
Christie, Robert
Clark, George Dickson
Clarke, Samuel Andrews, P. M.
Uobby, John Wilmott
Uollins, William Webb
Cook, Aaron
Cook, Benjamin Franklin
Cook, Philip Henry
Cosgrave, John Paul
Craig, David John
Craig, John Bynum
Craig, Robert James
·Craig, Theodore Leonidas
Craig, William Henry
Crockard, Robert Francis
Cumming, Joseph Moore
Dabel, Richard
Daggett, John •
Dahl, Charles WiJJiam
Dahl, John Martin

Dahlsteqt, Adrian Frithiof
Damkroeger, Daniel August
Davidson, Henry Wood Johnston
Davies, George
Davis, John Fletcher
D'Arcy, John
Deacon, William
Deegan, John Joseph
DeLamare, August Jacques
DeLisle, Raymond Frank
Dickieson, James Edward
Doane, John Osborne, P. M.
Dormer, John Monteith
Dorward, David, Jr.
Duebel, Charles Auguat
Duncan, William Cluff
Dunne, Francis Henry
Earle, Slade Anthony,· P. M.
Eastwick, Philip Garrett, Jr.
Eggerstedt, William
Ekstrom, Frank
Elliott, Hamilton Scholes
Everding, John
Fake, George John
Fisher, Owen Frank
Flagler, Amasa Plummer, P. M.
Fogalsang, Thomas Edwin
Foord, James
Forbes, Richard James Harvey
Foster, William Sinclair
Fredericksen, Hans Rasmus
Freese, Joseph Christian
Fullerton, Darwin Phelps
Fullerton, John
Furman, Lawrence Magnus
Furst, Walter Wilfred
Galvin, Thomas Martin
Gardiner, William George
Garratt, Benjamin Franklin
Garrick, Walter James
Geantit, Antonio
Genereaux, Victor Henri
Gilmour, John Alan
Glunz, John. Benjamin
Goddard, George Henry

59

60
Good, Richard ·
Goodall, Harry Walter
Grannell, John
Green, John Frederick
Greene, Watso.n Hatch
Grey, John Thomas, P. M.
Groth, Soren Gudme B.
Grubb, Joseph Richards
Guthrie, James
Guttormsen, Barthold
Hague, Charles John
Haley, Franklin Raymond
Hamilton, Charles John
Hammond, Hugh William
Hanell, William
Hansen, Ole Mehrten
Hasman, Charles Joseph
Hatfield, Lenox Chauncey
Haviside, John ·Joseph, Jr.
·Hawes, Talton
Hayes, William Thornton
Hedley, John
Hein, Theodore Hansen
Henderson, Harry Milne
Henrix, Edward
Hensley, Archie Howard
Herbert, William
Herdal, George J ohannasen .
Hermansson, Charles Adolf
Hernan, Michael Howard
Herrington, Howard
Hetty, Julius Finck
Heuer, August .Ferdinan<l
Hewitt, Charles Henry
Hildebrand, Henry Bernhard
Hilton, James
Hindle, William Henry
Hodgkinson, Albert Thomas
Hoffman, Robert Ogden
Holm, Christian
Holm, Louis Robert
Holman, William Lewis
Horgan, Cornelius John
Howell, Edward Henry

ROSTER.
Huddleston, Hugh
Hudspeath, John
Hughes, George
Hulings, Burton Fisher
Humphreys, James Holroyd, r. M.
Hunsicker, Jeremiah Emanuel
Hunter, Thomas
Hutchins, Day Selden
Hyvarinen, John Walfrid
Iversen, Niels, P. M.
Jackson, John Farren
Jensen, Niels Peter
Johnsen, Laurits
Johnson, Abraham Wallace
Johnson, Charles Otto, P. M
Johnson, Elmer Harold
Johnson, James Halliday Baker
Jones, Cliff Lowell
Jorgensen, Carl Johan Emil
Jorgensen, Jorgen Michael
Jorgensen, Niels Frederick Daniel
Jorgensen, Waldemar Sophos Emil
Karstensen, John
Kent, Samuel Henry, P. M .
Kidston, William
Kingston, James Jervis
Kitchen, John, Jr.
Kitchen, William Mortimer
Klein, Frederick
Knacke, Frederick Frank
Knapp, Gustav
Knief, George Ernest
Koffold, Peter Mathias
Korner, George Henry
Lagomarsino, Louis Andrew
Lange, William
Langstaff, William John
Larsen, John Ludwig
Lawless, James John
LeGal, Clarence Lindsay
Leonard, John Buck
Leslie, Anclrew Thomas
Levach, Alexander
Lewis, Charles William Robert

ROSTER.

•

'

• •

•

Lindberg, Knut Whilhelm
Lindblom, Erik Olof
Linsley, William Edward
.uittle, George Edward
Little, William Tell
Littlefiekl, Frank Peters
Louw, Henry Andrew
Ludwig, Anton John
Lund, Soren Sorensen
Lutticken, Louis John
Lutz, Charles August
Macdonald, Theodore Hall, P. M.
Mackintosh, William Crawford
MacFarlane, Neil
Mannie, Emmett Marcell
Marisch, Frank Paul
Martin, Robert Elmer Ellsworth
Mearns, Frank William
Mearns, James
Mengel, Albert Louis
Menke, Harry John Louis
Merrill, Albert Henry
Merx, Emil Otto Herman
Meyer, Edwin Lewis, P. M.
Mikkelsen, Christen Peter
Miller, John Henry
Moller, Erdmann Leopold
Montell, Edgar Henderson
Montell, Henry Hamilton
Morgan, Elisha
Morgan, Hamilton
Morose, Thomas Victor
Morris, Edward Thomas
Moses, William Schuyler, P. M.
Muirhead, John Scott
McCaw, Anthony
Mccaw, Thomas Scandrett
McClelland, John.
McClements, John
McConnell, Alexander
McConnell, Gibson
McCulloch, John Edward
McElroy, Joseph Francis
McGarrity, Donald Dennie
McGrath, Edward

Mcintosh, Lachlan
McKay, David McPherson
McKinnon, Norman
McKinnon, William Wilson
McLees, James Thomas
McLeod, Angus
McMillan, California Charles
McNally, Frank Lawrence
McN ally, James Joseph
N aghel, Louis Henry
Neubarth, John Julius
Newsom, James Byron
Nicoll, Alexander
Nicolson, Alexander
Nielsen, Christian Wilhelm
Nielsen, Peter
Nightingale, John
Noonan, John Hayes
Nopander, Louis Nicolas
Nutsen, Charles Andrew
Nygran, A11.ton William
Olson, John Petter
Otzen, George
Owens, John
Owens, Robert Clogher
Palmer, George Franklin
Parks, Charles LaSalle, P. M.
Parks, John
Parks, Rollie River
Parks, Yuba River
Patterson, James, P. M.
Patterson, John Fargo
Paulson, John. Nicholas
Payne, Redmond Wellington
Pearson, Albert
Pelton, Hazlitt Lee
Pennington, Thomas
Petersen, Gustav H. C.
Petersen, Jacob
Pfeiffer, Rudolph
Phelps, Asa Hosmer, P. M.
Phelps, Frank Augustus
Pratt, Augustus David
Puckett, George Robert
Pugh, William Henry

61

62
Purcell, William Lee
Putnam, Kingman Ruford
Raabe, Leon Stangle
Raphael, Robert
Raymond, Arthur James, P. M.
Reed, Henry
Reese, Evan Leander
Renwick, Charles Almon
Rice, James Truelson
Rice, Peter Christian
Ripperdan, Oswell Thomas
Robertson, George
Robertson, William Milne
Robinson, Charles
Robinson, Richard Gregory
Robinson, Victor Hugh
Roeder, August Edwart
Rogers, Edwin Newton
Rogers, Randall
Rose, Charles Hugh
Ruling, Charles
Salvesen, Reier
Sanches, Gardner Gilman
Sarrins, John Rudolph
Saxe, Robert Edward
Schab, Edwin
Scheel, Conrad
Schlitter, George Alexander
Schmrnt, Edward
Schmidt, Karl Christian
Scoby, John Carl
Scott, Walter Lagrange
Seagrave, John Carpenter
Selby, Herbert Kirtland
Semple, Hewson Cox
Shade, Widenham Daniel C.
Shane, Adolphus D.
Shaw, Stephen Browne
Sherman, Frank Bentz
Siesbuttel, Alexander
Silvia, William Collons
Simmie, Albert Tate
Simmons, Benjamin Cromwell
Simmons, Samuel Darrow
Sinelair, John

ROSTER.
Skelly, James Henry, P. M.
Smith, Charles William
Smith, Henry
Smith, John Henry
Smith, Mortimer Franklin
Smith, Robert Neil
Smith, Walter Henry
Smith, William Ferdinand
Smith, William John
Smith, William Magnus
Sorensen," Albert Henry
Sorensen, James Andersen
Southard, Frank David
Spear, William John
Squires, William Dunning
Stafford, William Gardner
Stanquist, John Victor
Stark, David
Steiss, Albert John
Stokkebye, Peter Madsen
Strandberg, Charles
Stroecker, George Leopold
Struve, Henry Knighton
Stuart, Frank Hayden
Sullivan, Abraham Sinclair
Thomas, William
Thompson, Frank Webster
Thompson, William Wallace
Thomson, Arthur Gale
Thomson, Harvey King
Thomson, Thomas
Thornberg, Antone Frederick
Toft, Neal Christensen
Tomasini, Henry Richard
Torey, Stanley
Tower, Horace Frederick
Trebell, John, Jr.
Trebell, 'l homas
Trumbull, Lyman Frank
Turner, Matthew
Tway, Ephraim Foster
Vance, George Prescott, P. M.
VanCleve, John Thompson
Vega, Frank Abraham
Venker, Henry Hermann

ROSTER.

•

63

Volkmann, Alfred Arthur
Willis, William Bayard
Von Husen, John Henry
Wilson, Arthur Latto
Von Husen, William
Wilson, Harley Payton
Wagner, Charles Augustus William Witmer, Gottlieb
Wale, George
Wohler, John Frederick Hermann
Wallace, Thomas
Woodruff, Bowel Randolph
Walsh, George Charles
Woodworth, Marshall Borel
Washburn, George Benjamin
Word, William Wallace, Jr.
Weaver, Dwight Smith
Worden, Walter Le Roy
Wegener, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Wright, William George, P. M.
Weitkunat, Edward
Wright, William Quinby
Wenzell, William Theodore
Young, Allen Edward
Whitehead, Albert Daniel
Young, Robert Nicholles
Whitelaw, Thomas Potaro H.
Young, Walter Henry
Wickersham, John Worth
Zeh, George B1inry
Wilkie, Malcolm Darroch
-433
WITHDRAWN:
Bang, Armand Carrell
Bertelsen, Andrew Larsen
Grum, William

Krap, Jes Mathai.is H.
Schelling, Jacob
Tbomas, William David
DIED :

Davidson, Walter Park
Lowry, John
Freese, John Herrnan
Lundquist, Freu
McKeon, John
Henshelwood, Thomas R.
0 'Connor, Thomas M.
Jager, Eyvind
Stratman, John
Larsen, Christian F.
Law, Thomas
Thompson, Rufus W.
' Voodard, Marshall H.
#

GOLD HILL LODGE, No. 32.

•

Lincoln, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fun Moon.
OFFICERS:

Hansen Paul Jansen, Master,
Walter Jansen, Senior Deacon,
Henry W . Ahart, S en . .Warden,
Jas. Robt. Huffaker, Jun. Deacon,
Jans P . Thomsen, Jun. Warden,
Marcus Thomsen, Marshal,
Albert Jas. Gladding, Treasurer,
Charles Fitz Beermann, Steward,
Geo. Francis Pemberton, Secretary, Frank Long Sanders, Steward,
John Goy, Tyler.

ROSTER. ·

64

MEMBERS:
Adams, Lorenzo Dow
Hill, Edward Eugene
.A.hart, Henry Whitley
Hislop, William
Beermann, Charles Fritz
Hislop; James White
Biclµord, John Herbert
Hughes, William
Blackie, Anthony McClellen
Herold, Adam Rudolph
Buck, John Hiram
Jansen, Walter, P. M.
Bulson, Charles Hermon, P. M.
Jansen, Hans Paulsen, P. M.
Crosby, Fred Chase
Jackson, Julian Allen
Christiepsen, John Peter N.
Jones, Byron W.
Landis, John Bartle
Croly, James
Davis, Frederick Calvin, P. M.
Lehe, Eugene David Noah
Livingstone, John Alexander
Fleming, Albert Carlyle
Michael, Martin
Fleming, Albert Charles
Miesner, Frank
Frederick, Henry David
Frederick, Morris Huse
Olsen, Charles Sorensen
Finney, William Norman
Pemberton, George Francis, P. M.
Fuller, Richard Nelson
Pemberton, John Wilmer
Rivas, Emanuel
Gray, Galush8:
Gladding, Albert James, P. M.
Roberts, William Ewing
Gerber, John, P. M.
Sparks, Edmond Jones, P. M .
Goy, Charles
Sparks, William Martin
Sanders, Frank Long
Goy, John
Thomsen, Jens Peter
Harper, Tho!JlaS Burrill, P. M.
Haenny, John, P. M.
Thomsen, Marcus
Hartwick, Robert Charles
Wayatt, James
Handling, Thomas
Williams, Carlos
Hill, John Albert
-53
WITHDRAWN:
Bessac, H enry William
Powers, Amos Mathew
Clark, Owen

DIED:
Crosby, Josiah Chase

OPHIR LODGE, No. 33.

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
A "'Tery, Morton Peter
Malaspina, Antone
Hatten, Frederick
Malaspina, Joseph B.
Batten, George
Manuel, John
Batten, Henry
Manuel, Raymond T.
Bray, Nelson H.
Mitchler, Frank Alexander, P. M.
Bunney, John
Nuner, Charles Glover
Cline, Andrew
Poole, William
Copella, David
Poe, Adam W.
Castruccia, Augostine
Prothero, Edward
Davis, Jamee Sydenham C.
Poe, Edgar Adam
Driver, David Barkie, P. M .
Poe, James Thomas
Darr, F erdinand
·
Ross, Elias Elam
Drake, Edward Thornton
Raggio, Richard
.Fisk, Frank Willis
Raggio, Ernest
Fischer, John
Roberts, Owen
Garland, Warren Nathaniel, P. M. Stephens, Benjamin
Gilmore, John Henry
Stephens, James Moses
Harrington, Oscar Daniel
Spencer, Wirt Dexter
Heard, John Henry, P . M.
Schachten, Joseph
•
Harris, Henry
Solari, Bastiano
Holland, John E.
Steinberg, Edward A.
Howard, George A., P. M .
Shannon, James Edward
Jenkins, William Henry
Schwoever, Emil
Lesiza, John
Schwoever, Fred
Langford, James T.
'!'homas, William, Jr.
Marshall, Frank Benjamin
True, Edward Lewis
Manuel, Mathew Henry
True, George Lewis, P. M.
Moran, Thomas John, P. M
W ells, Leo Burk
McKown, Charles L.
Williams, Hugh Price
McQuig, Alexander May
Zugar, Archibald
~O
SUSPENDED .FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Alexander, Paul C.
McQuig, John

Murphy's, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Prothero, Master,
Alex. May McQuig, S en. Deacon,
John Manuel, Sen. Warden,
Antonio Malaspina, Jun. Deacon,
Jas. Edw. Shannon, Jun. Warden,
, Marshal,
Mathew Henry Manuel, Treasurer, Emil Schwoever, Steward,
Arthur Willis Fisk, Secretary,
Augostine Castruccia, Steward,
William Poole, Tyler.
5

65

ROSTER.

66

ROSTER.

SAN DIEGO LODGE, No. 35.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Carl Henry Hielbron, Master,
Fenton M. Johnson, S en. Deacon,
John Gifford Shaw, Sen. ·Warden, Fred. A. Schneider, Jun. Deacon,
Peter ]. Piepenbrink, Jun. Warden, Herbert Anson Croghan, Marshal,
John Henfrey Simpson, Treasurer, Egbert Carroll Bangs, Steward,
Charles Wm. Partridge, Secretary, Edgar Bernard Levi, Steward,
Edwin Adelb't Woodard, Chaplain, Frank Dodgson Jefferis, Tyler.

Allen, William Wallace
Arey, Lewis Melbourne
Armfield, Harrie C.
Armstrong, John Emanuel
Arnold, Charles Elmo
Arnold, Gilbert Conger, P. M,
Arnold, Leroy H enry
Arnold, Raymond Lacey
Asher, Josephus Marion
Averbeck, George
Bailey, Walter Josiah
Baker, George Lawrence
Baker, Wilbur Sampson
Baldwin, Hugh John
Baldwin, Frederick William
Ballou, George Henry
.Harnes, Frank Wile
Barstow, William Molynar
Beard, Amos
Beall, Edward Morse
Beamer, Peter Walter, P. M.
Belding, Sanford Whitefield
Beermaker, George Wilson
Bennett, Ira Edgar
Biewener, August Henry
Blackmer, John Keep, P. M.
.Hlochman, Abraham
Blocihman, Lucien A.
Bortzmeyer, John. Frederick
Bose, Charles Michael

MEMBERS:
Bowers, William Wallace, P. M.
Boyd, James Alexander
Bradley, Francis William
Bradt, Horace
Breese, Robert
Brown, William B.
Brust, Samuel
Bryan, Solon
Buchan, James Dexter
Budlong, William Edgar, P. M.
Burnell, Barker
Burnell, William John
Cabler, Albert Nelson
Campbell, Edward Lewis
Cavalier, John Charles
Chalmers, William Franklin
Christensen, Christian Andreas
Clark, Harry
Clements, Gustavus C.
Cliff, Charles Lee
Colburn, Walter Maurice
Collier, David Charles, Jr.
Comly, Henry Retzer
Comly, James Retzer
Conklin, Norman Henry
Cornish, 'fbomas Charles
Croghan, Herbert Anson, P. M.
Dannals, George Miffiin, P. M.
Dauer, Charles Rudolph
Davidson, Frank Pierce

'

Davis, Omar Newman
Holzner, Frank Xavier
Day, Joshua Davis
Horton, Alonzo Erast us
Day, Percey Litchfield
Huitt, Charles E.
Doig, Robert Leeper
Humphreys, Thomas Henry
Doolittle, Herbert Elliott
Hunt, Nat han
Elgasser, Charles Frank
Hylund, Charles John
Ervay, Henry Schley
Jackson, Frederick William
Evans, Louis Joseph
Jefferis, Frank Dodgson
Fay, William An<.lrew
Jenkes, Ernest
Feekings, Hubert Gordon
J essop, Alonzo De.
Fitch, Herbert R.
Johnson, Perle Marion
Fleming, Thomas J efl'erson
Josselyn, Charles Lewis
Forward, John Tarn
Journeay, George
Fos, Willard Newell
Julian, Archibald Huston
Fournier, Ferdinand
Kindler, Albert
Frank, Amos Reed
K ent, Lewis Edgar
Frary, Frank Phineas
Kirby, Lewis Reginald Willfo.m
Fredericks, John Claus
Klauber, Abraham
Frevert, William Lewis
Kressmann, Charles Frederick
Fry, George IDysses
Laing, Oscar ·
Furnald, Frederick Henry Clay
Lamb, Frank Karl
Fussell, Joseph Hall
Lamb, Markolet Richards
Gilbert, Alfred Hyde, P. M.
Lambert, John Willis
Good, Chas. Long
Landis, Harry Melancthon
Graham, Melancthon Adam, P. M.
Leisenring, Peter S.
Grant, Donald F.
Lezynsky, Isaac Lesser
Griffes, James Hartness
Levi, Adolph
Hackett, Samuel Warren
Levi, Simon, P. M.
Hadley, Ephraim Wilson
Lewis, Theron Leslie
Halstead, William Alexander
Liston, James Riley
Hansson, Jonas
Lit tle, William Everett
Harland, Wilfred Charles
Little, Arthur Gillespie
Harper, James Stevenson
Loomis, Charles Clark
Hawley, Joseph Noah
Louis, Emanuel J., P. M.
Rawson, William
Lqwe, George Washington
Hearne, Joseph Carter
Lowe, William Olin
Heath, James Henry
Luce, Moses Augustine
Heilbron, Carl Henry
Ludington, William French
H erz, Albert
I.yous, George
Hetzel, John Julius
MacGillivray, George Barnett
Hickham, Ernest C.
Macnider, George Francis
Hinton, John Brundridge
M11cNutt, Homer
Hizar, Julier Clyde
Manice, John
Holbrook, Elliott
Marquardt, Hans
Holbrook, Howard Edward
McClure, St ewart

67

ROSTER.
68

ROSTER.

Rivers, George Hartford
McDonald, J. Wade
Roberts, Edward M.
McGurck, Edward
Ross, Albert Lee
McLure, Louis Steenrod, P. M.
Ross, Morgan Rinehart
McWilliams, Joseph Green
Schimpf, August Rudolph
Mead, Francis Henry
Schneider, Louis
Mendenhall, Americus Luther
Scott, D'e Wilton
Merritt, Wilbur Cassius
Scott, Henry Arthur
Mertzman, Bernhard Frederick
Scheutze, William ~'rederick P. M.
Middleton, George
Schindler, Robert
Millard, Fordyce Rust
Seifert, John Richard
Mills, Edgar Ryder
Shaw, Victor Emanuel
Moore, Charles Gardiner
Shaw, John Gifford
Morgan, Addison, P . M.
Shepherd, Richardson
Morgan, William Griffith
Shera, James
Morris, Arthur Adolphus
Simpson, John Henfrey
Morton, Richard Charles
Smith, Sam Ferry, P. M .
Mossholder, William John, P. M.
Smith, Joseph Berten
Murphy, George Samuel
Sporleder, Robert
Nerney, Thomas Alexis
Stabel, Alfred
,Nichols, James Nelson
Stanton, Leon Irenee
Nichols, Nathan Dean
Sterne, Charles Embrey
Nystrom, Isadore Axel
Sto.~king, Raymond Francis
Oakley, Nelson Clewell
Strickler, John Weaver
O'Neall, Charles Ford
Sturgo, Salvador M.
Osborn, John Burchard, P. M.
Stuart, Edward Bradbury
Pamperin, Henry
Swallow, Charles Howell
Partridge, Charles William
Swift, John
Patterson, Henry Tatterson
Swivel, Andrew
Perrin, Minrod Jonathon, P. M.
Taylor, James Woodbury
Perrin, William Cooper
'l'aylor, Harry Scott
Peterson, Edward Whitefield
Thill, Adolph
Piepenbrink, Peter John
Thomas, Albert Arthur
Pierce, Francis Marshal
Thomas, Richard Baker
Pierce, William Levings, P. M.
Polhamus, Albert Alexander, P. M. Thomas, William Emerson
Thompson, John Waldo, P. M.
Powell, J. Edward .
Thompson, Karl John
Powers, Robert Morris
Thompson, Edwin Ruthvin
Price, Jacob
Thoustrup, Julius Arendt EmUe
Prieto, Joaquin Diaz
Tibbals, William Luther
Puyear, Silas Montague, P . M.
Titus, Aime Baxter
Raithel, John Anderson
Titus, Nat Robert, P. M.
Reed, David Curtis
Titus, Harry Lewis
Reinhardt, Albert Mathew
fopping, William Crane
Remondino, Peter Charles
Touchette, Alfred Ochve
Rippey, Charles Hendee

•

•rreahy, Albert Moran
vernon, Fabius M.
Voeltzel, Daniel
Wadham, James Edward
Wagele, William
Walker, Clark Ambrose
Wangenheim, Julius
Warren, James
Waters, Henrv Rober~
Watson, Charl<:s Chau!.l.C•'."
Wells, George Washington
'~ ertheimer, Monroe A 1]..,,r~
Wescott, Edwarcl
Wescott, John Wesley

West, William Henry
Whitney, Edwsl"'l F:ll~w.11·th
'.\'hitson, William Wl'efoy·
Wilhelm, Frederic GeorgeWillard, Cyrus Field
Williams, Charles Lewis
Winn, Robert Hatch
Wood, Lorin Francis
Woodard, Edwin Adelbert, P. M.
Wootten, John Bennett
Wright, Ralph Leone
Wright, Allen Henry
Wyatt, Frank K .
-268
Young, John Alford
WITHDRAWN:

Baker, Robut Miller
Johnson, M. Durward
Long, John Thomas

Rector, Edward Lincoln
Stewart, James Thompson
*Strasberger, Nathan '

DIED:
Blackmer, Eli Tucker
Hoole, Septimus Frederick
Bushyhead, Ed. Wilkinson
~foKinley, Robert M.
Fardelius, Freclerick
Shaffer, Eugene Ernest
Walker, William Thomas

ST. JOHN'S LODGE, No. 37.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter B. Pollock, Sen. Deacon,
Charles James Luttrell, Master,
Robt. Ream Rankin, Sen. Warden, Geo. Albert Tibbe, Jun. Deacon,
Peter Jenette Chapell, Marshal,
Bennett L. Butler, Jun. Warden,
Ernest Geo. Millbourn, Steward,
Maurice Renner, Treasurer,
Henry Nelson Mullin, Steward,
Clifford E. Butler, Secretary,
James Marcellus Powers, Tyler.
•Restored during the year.

69

70

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:

Truitt, George Irwin
Wilcox, William Edward Benton
Wadsworth, Frederick Elijah, P. M. Williams, Solon Heywood
Walton, George James
Wilson, Jeremiah Judson, P. M.
Ward, Kenneth Lester
Woodbury, Franklin Isaac
Wheeler, James. Edward, P. M.
Wright, John Elbert
-98

Many, Peter
Abshire, Alfred C., P. M.
Martin, Brice McClendon
Ackerman, ·Frank Buffum
Martin, James Buchanan
Ackerman, Frank Smith
Mattern, Adelbert Franklin
Beaudry, Fred B.
Mattern, Herman
Bradley, John Taylor
Mattern, John Hanlon
Bull, John Osias
Millbourn, Ernest George
Butler, Bennet Lafayette
Mills, Robert McDonnell
Butler, Clifford Ederick, P. M.
Mitchell, Charles Augustus
Butler, George Dexter, P. M.
Mullen, Henry Nelson
Cash, ·Harry
Nalley, James Sawyer
Chambers, George Henry
.Newton, Allen, P. M.
Chandler, Elmer Rollo
Newton, Lester Smith
Chapell, Peter Janette, P. M.
O'Neill, John McCormick, P . M.
Churchill, Jerome Percy, P. M.
O'Shaughnessy, John FranciE
Churchill, J case Warren
l'ashburg, John, P. M.
Cole, Herbert Bailey
Patterson, Harry Clement
Cole, Hugh Franklin
Patterson, Harry Havelock
Cooley, John Edward
Davis, Alphonse George WashingtonPollock, Walter Benson
Davis, Henry Levi
Powers, James Marcellus
Davis, Jesse Francis
Powers, William Watson
Diggles, Henry Emit
Pyle, Curtis Hooper, P. M.
Ekwall, Alexander
Rankin, Robert, P. M.
Foster, Ellis Jacob
Rankin, Robert Ream
Freshour, Joseph Frank
Raynes, Alonzo Emery
Freshour, Walter
Raynes, Herbert Rosborough
Griffin, Franklin Robert
Ream, Henry Belden
Hansen, Christian
Renner, Maurice
Hawkins, Austin
Richardson, James Buchanan
Hoar, William Pancoast
Richardson, Sidney
Hobson, Luther Morris
Rohrer, James Baptiste
Horn, David Marshall
Scheid, Louis Philip, P. M.
Iffland, Karl Stein
Schroeder, John Henry Christopher
Jacobs, Gordon Morse
Shattuck, Silas
Johnson, George H.
Shearer, William Buckner, P M.
, ,Johnson, James Marion
Sjoan, Orian Chase
Jones Thomas
Sleeper, Manasseh, P. M.
Kendall, Edward John
Soule, John
Kennedy, Daniel
Southworth, Thomas Benton
Koontz, Henry Newman
Stevens, Charles Edwin
Laird, William Thomas
Stine, John William
Lee, George
Tebbe, George Albert, P. M .
Luttrell, Charles James
Tebbe, William Edward
Long, James Franklin
Timmons, James Albert

71

WITHDRAWN:
Crow, William David

Richardson, James Albert
DIED:

Freshour, Marion
Griswold, Llewellyn D.

•

*Henry, Charles Ashmun
Magoffey, John Henry

SANTA CRUZ LODGE, No. 38.
Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

JI

OFFICERS:
Ralph John Mattison, Master,
Chas. Devault Hinkle, Sen. Deacon,
Phillip S . Curtis, Sen. Warden,
Samuel F. Zealear, /rm. Deacon,
Percy Arthur Izant, Jun. Warden, Lawrence Lorenzen, Marshal,
Wm. Clarence Tooze, Treasurer,
Henry Rhein, Steward,
Edward Swift West, S ecretary,
Hiram Abiff Lorenzen, Steward,
Geo. Washington Wells, .Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Arthur George
Ahlers, Diedrich Charles
Anderson, Charles Louis
Angell, Fenner Almerion
Aldrich, Edwin Caleb
Attaway, Taylor
Aydelotte, Charles Leon
Aydelotte, William Mack
Baker, Charles George Aldis
Barnet, Emanuel
Basey, John Clinton
Baldwin, Amos Merritt
• Restored during the year.

Baxter, Robert James
Bell, William Lisle
Bias, Harry James
Bias, William Henry
Bilodeau, John Henry
Blanchard, Thomas E.
Bowman, Edward
Bowman, Lloyd
Briggs, Herbert Fisk
Brooks, Joseph Terry
Brown, James Henry
Brown, William

72

ROSTER.

Burdick, Charles Huntington
Bush, Benjamin Howard
Byrne, Walter Charles
Cardwell, Edward
Carter, Harry Lewis
Chase, John Rufus
Chamberlin, Marcus Philander
Clouette, William Isaie
Coblentz,. Felix
Cohen, Aron
Cooper, Harry Clay
Congdon, Willis Rollin
Cox, Alison Alberti
Cox, Herbert Every, P. M.
Curtis, Philip Sheridan
Dake, Lawrence John
Daves, Arthur Lawrence
Drennan, Ryland
Drullard, Thompson Wilson, P. M.
Drum, Richard William
Ely, Frank William
Ely, William
Emminger, Daniel David
Ennor, John Martin
Esty, Jarvis Duncan
Fairchilds, Fred McNabb
Ferguson, Daniel
Fischer, Antone
Fitch, Edwin
Folsom, Cathers Drummond, P. M.
Freshour, Joseph Terre
Gayton, John Avard
Gaukroger, Albert
Gebhart, Charles Albert
Godfrey, Henry Joesph, P. M.
Griswold, Seldon
Hall, Henry Drescher
Hapgood, Alfred Adams
Harris, Waymouth
Hezelton, Harry Raleigh
Heathcote, G. Prince Monpessen
Hobart, Edgar
Heard, Edwin Clyde
Hinkle, Charles Devault
Hoffman, Frank Joseph

Horton, Roy Dolan
Hotchkiss, Marshall Edgar
Izant, Bertram Howard, P. M.
Izant, Caleb
Izant, Percy Arthur
Izant, William Caleb, P. M.
Johnson, Robert Franklin
Johnson, Walter Lloyd, P. M .
Jonas, Joseph Lewin
Jones, Albert
Jones, Charles Arthur
Jorgensen, Jorgen
Keck, William Hugus
Kelsey, Edward Albert
Kimball, Charles Augustus
Kirkpatrick, Charles Thomas
Krebs, Julius Caesar
Kron, Henry Frederick
Kroeger, Charles Herman
Lemiux, Louis
Lincoln, Orlando Jay
Linscott, Harry Arlin
Linscott, John William, P. M.
Lloyd, Benjamin
Lorenzen, Caby .
Lorenzen, George
Lorenzen, Hiram Abiff
Lorenzen, Lawrence
Lozier, Allen Sheldon
Lucas, Frederick William, P. M.
Lucas, Harry Clifford
Lucas, William Vincent
Makinney, Hampton Emmet
Martin, Charles Christopher
Markle, Robert Bruce
Mason, Louis Tracy
Matison, Frank, P. M.
Mattison, Ralph John
McCreary, Edward Davis
McCreary, Josiah Winans
McCreary, Thomas Guy, P. M.
McNair, James
Meadows, Charles Richmonu
Menefee, Frank George
Metcalf, Charles Otis

ROSTER.
Middleton, Edward August
Middleton, Henry Louis
Mikel, Joseph Andrew
Moore, William St. Clair Demitte
Montell, George Alfred
Moulton, John Bisbee
Mosher, Nelson
Napier, Robert Graham
Oliver, William
Olsen, Peter Sophus
Perry, Peter Pierce, P. M.
Peterson:, Henry Caesar
Pettit, Jobe Edward
Philbrook, Edgar Brayton
Phillips, Pei:cy Todd
.Picknell, Stanley Gates
Pioda, Louis Emelio W.
Plancich, Nicholas Antonia
Plant, Benjamin Anthony, P, M .
Powell, Rolla
Pratchner, George Charles
Pratchner, William Wells
Prouty, Frederick Raymond
Putnam, Marvin Edgerton
Randall, Horace
Read, William Mile1
Rhein, Henry
Rostron, George Henry, P. M ,
Roy, James Mauris
Russell, William
Schroeder, Charles
Severio, John, P. M.
Shippy, William Delos

Smith, Lucas Flattery
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Snyder, Henry Francis
Soper, John
Springer, Paul Eugene
Spring:er, Ralph Chesebro
Springer, Wilson Riley
Staubes, Charles
Sterns, Frank Wilcox
SteGn, Jacob
Stevens, Frederick Lawrence
Still, Arthur
Still, Herbert Charles, P. M
Swanton, Albion Paris
'!'abler, Charles Marvin
Taylor, John Alexander, P. M.
Tainton, Edgar Milsted.
Tenney, Henry Dergin
Thayer, Truman Ransom'
'l'ooze, William Clarence
Tramplcasure, Burt Edward
Trezona, Charles Ernest
Twist, John Parker
Wanzer, Harry Snyder
Webster, Mark
West, Edward Swift, P. M .
Wells, George Washington
Willey, Henry
Willis, Ellery
Woodard, Lester
Wood, Walace, Percival
Zealear, Samuel Francis

-179

WITHDRAWN:
Lunday, Edwin Arthur
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Bailey, Frederick Lenwood
Sutton, John Burton
Trout, Daniel Hawk
DIED:
Porter, George Keeting

Williams, Edward LawrcncE'

74

ROSTER.

ROS'l'ER.
Rubel, Charles Christopher
Sheldon, Frederick William
Single, Joseph Henry
Skinner, Randolph Whitney
Slingsby, William .
Souza, Emanuel Carl
Stone, Charles E., P. M.
Steel, Thomas Hugh, P. M.
Stone, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Stokes, Guy Heancastle, P. :M..
St. John, Enos Frost

YUBA LODGE, No. 39.
Marysville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Abram Walte.r Lewis, Master,
Gordon N. Tapley, Sen. Deacon,
Ed. A. Cunningham, Sen. Warden, F. Wm. Cunningham, Jun. Deaton,
Fred'k Wm. Loehne, Jun. Warden, Wm. Franklin Corey, Marshal,
Peter Engel, Treasurer,
R;chard Edwin Bevan, Steward,
James Fred Eastman, Secretary,
Matthew T. Featherly, Steward,
Fred'k Wm. Sheldon, Chaplain,
Edgar Taber, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Hall, George William, P. M.
Arp, Henry
Henn, William Theophilus, P. M.
Barnes, Jesse Walter
Hutchins, John Sullivan, P. M.
Barr, James Holmes
Hutchins, Gavin Walker
Belcher, Richard
Jenken, William Emerson
Bendel, Herman Stockman
King, Henry Dietrich, P . M.
Bevan, Richard Edwin
Knaugh, Joshua
Binney, Andrew J ackeon, P. M.
Lewis, Abram Walter, P. M.
Bissell, Nelson Clifton
Lewie, Arthur Garfield
Boulton, Emison Allen
Lipp, Albert Powell
Brittan, Mark Thomas
Logan, Anderson Dabney
Brown, Howard Leroy
Malloch, Henry
Carpenter, William Edward
McC!intock, William
Covilland, Charles Julien
Meek, Emerson Emmet
Cunningham, Edward Augustus
Menz, Albert John Schrieber
Cunningham, Francis William
Menz, Albert Julius
Davis, Edwin Amenzo
Millar, Robert
Donnalley, Edward J.
Moffitt, John Andrew
Eastman, James Fred
Monnet, Fred Lewis
Engel, Peter
Moon, Benjamin
Ewell, Samuel
Moors, Frank Bennett
Fenwick, William Arthur
Mote, Jesse Frampton
Featherly, Mathew Thomas
Newbert, Lee Hamilton
Fisher, Amos
Norton, Paul
Foster, John Rupert, P. M.
Peffer, John
French, Wheeler Desting
Potter, Frank W., P. M.
Frey, Frank Edward
Powell, David, P. M.
Fuller, Jesse Beech, P. M.
Raisch, Charles, P. M.
Gianella, Vicenzo
Redmond, Williain
Gribner, George Thomas
Rogers, John Belcher
Grow, William Bert

i5

Suggett, Allen Holman, P. M.
Sutliff, George Warren
Sutliff, Bruce Hare
Swift, Sidney Bourne
Taber, Edgar
Tapley, Frederick Boyd
Thom, David, Jr.
Wallis, Ivory Edgar
Walters, Joseph
Wheelock, John Dexter

-81

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Baldwin, George B.
DIED:
Ayer, Leonard Barnard
Lumbard, John Charles
Patterson, Charles Milton

SACRAMENTO LODGE, No. 40.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Coombs Bassett, Master,
Delos Sumner Watkin, Sen. Deacon,
Geo. Nesbit Cook, Sen. Warden,
Wm. Edw. Appleton, Jun. Deacon,
Nicholas Jos. Hullin, Jun. Warden, Wm. Wallace M~tt, Sr., Marshal,
Wm. Monroe Petrie, Treasurer,
Cornelius P . Bandy,. Steward,
Richard Cutrer Irvine, Secretary,
Joseph Hardin Stephens, Steward,
Clarence Todd Clark, Chaplain,
Thomas Ross, Tyler.

..
•

MEMBERS:
Acock, Thomas LaFayette
Bandy, Cornelius Philander
Andrew, Adam
Bassett, George Combs
Anderson, Joseph Maurice
Bassett, William Walter
Atkinoon, Edmund Clement, P. G. M.Barmby, John Trever
Atkinson, Edmund Mansfield
Basler, Charles M~rtin
Atkinson, Foster Lincoln
Bates, Hugh Rolanu
Atkinson, Frank Freeman
Bidwell, Frank J., P. M.
Appleton, William Edward
Beard, George Foster

76

R08TER.
ROS'l'ER.

Beard, Marshall Rowles
Blair, John Newell, P. M.
Blake, Charles Tyler
Bowden, Lewis W. R.
Hoyd, John Walter, P. M.
Boyl!, Thomas
Bragg, Charles Lourin
Bragg, Henry William
Brand, George 8umner
Briggs, William Ellery
Brown, John Pemper
Brusch, Charles Henry
Hugby, Benjamin Norton, P . M .
Burdick, Joseph
Burr, Allyn Lord
Burr, Richard Palmer, P. M .
Camp, James Glasby
Capen, George Ashley
Carroll, Harry Montfort
Charter, Earl Davis
Christie, Isaac
Clark, Clarence Todd
Clark George Harvey
Clay, Ammon
Colburn, James A.
Uoleman, James R.
Cook, George Nesbit
Cook, Hiram
Cothrin, William Kip
Crabb, Homer Elmer
Craig, James
Curtis, Melancthon John, P . M.
Curtis, William Albert
· Darling, Henry Job
Dierssen, George Ernest Augustus
Dolan, Patrick Charles
Dunn, George
Ellis, Charles Joshua
Everett, Walter Wyncoop
Fairbanks, Herbert August
Farr, David
Finnie, Robert Dryden
FiMh, Alfred Lafayett
Flemming, Frank
Fowler, Ezra Schoales

Fraser, John David
Frazier, Charles Wesley, P . M.
Giffen, James Buchanan, P. M.
Gillis, Dugald
Given, .John Ely
Grant, Duncan
Green, John Albert
Green, John Har:i-y
Guth, Joseph
Hack, Henry Leonard
Hageley, John
Hale, Evert Wilburn
Hale, Marshal
Hale, Prentiss Cobb
Hale, Reuben Brooks
Hammer, Mosheim Schmucker
Harkness, Frank
Harmon, Rufus Burnham, P M .
Hatch, Wilber Mark
Heath, Josiah Rich
Henly, Michael James
Hoen, Ernest Martin
Holbrook, Charles
Holmes, George Albert
Hopkins, Edwin Carmi
Hornlein, Hugo August
Hornlein, Max Edward
Hughes, Joseph Wilcoxson, P. M.
Hullin, Nicholas Joseph
Humphrey, Anthony Boyd
Hunt, John Alexander
Ilgner, Charles William, P. M.
Irvine, Richard Cutrer, P. M.
Johnson, Joseph William
Johnson, Julian Workman
,Tohnston, John Wesley
Jones, Perry Evert
Jordan, Louie Ernest Clark
King, John, P. M.
Kleinsorge, Albert Frederick
Kleinsorge, Henry Emil
Kleinsorge, William Edward, P . M.
Knights, William Durrant, P. M.
Knights, William Rudd
Kyle, Alexander

,
•

..

'

•

Lane, George William .
Raynsford, Cyrus H.
Larkin, William Henry
Raynsford, Mark H.
Locke, George Washington
Read, Herbert Alfred James
Lucas, James Franklin
Read, John Adderson
Madison, William John
Reeves, John Wesley
Maehn, William Julius
Reith, John
Mathews, Charles James
Rideout, Benjamin Norman
Mayo, Joseph Ely
Ross, Thomas
McDonald, William Lowell
Ruedy, John
McKelvey, Charles
'Russell, John Leslie
McKim, Samuel Warder
Saunders, Joseph William
McLean, Duncan
Schaw, William
Miller, Arthur Eugene
Schwoerer, Louis Martin
.Miller, Dwight Henry
Schonefelt, William Domer
Miller, Frederick Walton Winston Seymour, Arthur McArthur, P. M.
Miller, John G.
Smith, Harry Anthony
Molter, Jacob Philip
Stephens, Joseph Hardin
Morgan, Earl Ralph
Stephenson, Harley Howard, P. M.
Morris, Edward
Stephenson, William Albert
Morris, James
Stevens, Eugene Noyes
Morton, Charles Wardle
Stevenson, Robert Bruce
Mott, William Wallace, Sr., P. M. Stubbs, Charles Russell
Mott, William Wallace, Jr.
Summers, Harry Sinclair
Mull, Archibald Harrison
· Tade, Frank, P. M.
Nash, Hiram DeWitt
Thorp, Harry
Newbert, William Edmond
Turton, William
Nicholas, James Stuart
Vaughan, Richard
Nichols, Arthur Lombard
Vaughan, William Edwin
Olney, Cephas Charles
Waggoner, Reel Holloway, P. M.
Olsen, Oscar Francis
Watkins, Delos Sumner
O'Neil, James, P. M.
Warren, William C.
Ostrander, Charles Edward
Weil, Edward Adolph
Parker, Franklin Wilcox
Weinstock, Harris
Payen, Louis
Wendt, Gustav Adolph
Pepper, Charles Smith
Wiard, William Frederick, P. M.
Perkins, Charles Calley
Williams, Austin Daniel
Petrie, William Monroe, P. M.
Willis, William Ladd
Phillips, George
Willis, Evander Berry, P. M.
Phipps, Charles Edward
Wilson, William
Porter, Clive William
Winterburn, George Howard, P. M.
Prideaux, Richard Blight, P. M.
Wood, William
Quirin, Frank Jacob
Woodruff, David N.
-190

77

J
78

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Denham, James Flemming
McDonald, John Alexander

Hayes, George William

DIED:
LeRue, Hugh McElroy
Lawson, Powell Samuel

'

MARTINEZ LODGE, No. 41.
Martinez, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Louis Napoleon Buttner, Master,
Eugene H. Stoddard, Sen. Deacon,
Chas. Elnar Mowdy, Sen. Warden, Conrad 0. Nelson, Jun. Deacon,
Otto Kasper Smith, Jun. Warden, Martin, Wm. Joost, Marshal,
Robert Burns Borland, Treasurer, Chas. Willis Thissen, Steward,
Orville Eugene Hayward, Secretary, Brook Lindsey Moore, Steward,
Ernest Harvey Shibley, Chaplain,
John Goncoloes Lucas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alverado, Henry Victor, P. M.
Buttner, Louis Napoleon. P. M.
Baumann, George Edward
Baldwin, Barry
Beaudett, Joseph
Blum, Gabriel
Blum, Albert Edward
Blum, Max
Blum, Simon
Booth, William Francis
Borland, Robert Burns
Boyd, John Wheaton
Babel, William
Brooks, Frederick Sheridan
Bibber, Charles Edward
Carter, George Edward
Chatfield, Norman
Coleman, Arthur Burr
Coleman, Harry Lander

Collins, John Samuel
Copestake, Fred Archibald
Caufield, Willis Lee
Carothers, James Henry
Crilley, Sidney
Crew, Joshua Stafford
Davies, Albert
Dillon, Malachi F.
Douglas, William John, P .. M.
Duffy, William Joseph
Dye, Thorn Henry
Edwards, Hugh Pugh, P. M.
Edmunds, George Herbert
Eagar, Thomas Chester
Fassett, William
Fernandes, Bernard
Field, William A.
Fish, Charles Stanley
Fogelstrom, Walter John

•

Fraser, Ruben Alexander
Guy, John William
Gordon, Ernest
Hale, William Alanson, P. M.
Hale, Ruben Lyon
Hewett, Amos Lorenzo
Hayward, Orville Eugene
Hickman, Charles Clark
Hough, William Jerome
Hammatt, William Cushing
Haskell, August Story
Huff, Frank Louis
Hulett, Stewart M.
Ipswitch, George
Ingraham, Richard H.
Jones, Madison Ralph
Jacobs, Samuel Beer
Jaquith, Corey C.
Jaquith, William Clark
Jamieson, William
Jones, John Davies
Joost, Martin William
Kelly, Samuel Colter
Latimer, Randal Hubert
Lee; Richard Bee
Lucas, John Goncoloes
Lyford, George Henry
McClellan, James William
McLeod, Edward, P. M.
Matheson, Robert Browning
Matheson, William
Moore, Brook L.
Mowdy, Charles Elnor
Muir, John Crunna
Neustaedter, Michaelis

Neustaedter, Bernard
Neff, Felix Francis
Nelson, Conrad Oscar
Overfield, George Smith
Overfield, Henry Dunicake
Pasch, Elias
Pavolini, Anthony
Peterson, John Emil
Powell, Thomas
'.Rankin, Samuel
Rhine, Charles
Rhine, Jacob
Riley, Jahiel Stackhouse
Rodgers, Bloomfield Balton
Schall, Feredrick Charles
Stoddard, Eugene Warren, P. M.
Sherman, George Atwood, P. M.
Shibley, Ernest H.
Sickal, Marcus Theodore
Simon, John G.
Springer, Thomas Grant
Stemkellner, Thomas Joseph
Stile, Will Rothwell
Smith, Otto Kasper
Tinning, William S.
Thissen, Charles Willis
Ulsh, Ruben Leonard, P. M.
Varney, Thomas Howard
Wilson, Alvin Brice, P. :M.
Weiss, Richard Andrew
Wells, William Sewell, P. G. M.
Williams, Anthony
Wittenmyer, John Lewis
Wittenmyer, Lucerne A.
Wolcott, William Milton
-108

WITHDRAWN:
Differcling, Henry .

King, Guilford Dudley
Shepman, William Joseph

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Carpenter, Alexander
Sedgwick, Benjamin
DIED:
Austin, Amos E.

79

80

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

LOS ANGELES LODGE, No. 42.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Leo Wise Barnett, Master,
Morris H. Gcldsten, Senior Deacon,
J es. Oscar Downing, Sen. Warden, Albert H. J ohnston, Jun. Deacon,
Elmer Hiner, !1111 . Warden,
Wm. Mitchell Johnston, Marshal,
Wyndham B. Brain, Treasurer,
Jesse Cooley Fountain, Steward,
Morris Klein, Secretary,
Richard Albert Schroeder, Steward,
Henry Alfonzo Pierce, Chaplain,
Edward Hall Miller, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Adloff, Jacob
Burkhardt, Adolph
Amols, Charles
Burckell, Leon Albert
Andersen, Carl
Burg, Oscar Jeorgen William
Asher, Ralph
Buisseret, Alfred Paul
Baida, Nicolas Gabriel
Burns, James Franklin, P. M.
Bushnell, John Brown
Bainer, Andrew Meickle
Cahen, Simon, P. M.
Baldy, Alexander Jordan
Barnett, William Theodore
Campbell, Robert
Barnett, Leo Wise
Campbell, John Henry
Bayha, George Gottlob
Campbell, Robert Mackenzie
Bayha, Maximillian
Carbone, Louis
Behrendt, Caspar
Carlson, Gustap Emil
Cauvin, Robert Steger
Bell, John
Chiapella, Edward Emile
Bergh, Hans
Choate, James Jefferson
Bernhard, Gustav Adolph George
Clark, Thomas . Brainerd
Biescar, Henry
Clark, Alfred, Jr.
Biescar, Joseph
Biescar, George
Clayton, George Louie
Bille, Marcello
Cline, John Casper
Cohn, Elias
Blancheri, Leon
Blind, Philip
Cohn, Kaspare
Blumenberg, Samuel Purdy
Cohn, Max
Colburn, Edgar Leonard
Blum, Jules
Colling, Benjamin
Borba, Mamuel
Bowlby, Hugh Handford
Cooksey, Job Emit
Conzelman, Charles Emanuel
Braun, Henry
Brauer, Frederick
Cooper, Alfred
Bragg, Ansel Melen, P. M.
Cooper, George John
· Curry, William Edward
Brain, Wyndham Bennett
Brown, Walter William
Daniels, Albert Julius

,•

t

Davies, Floyd Ernest
Dawson, Douglas
Defty, William Emanuel
Dick, Henry
Dietze, Curt Paul
Dilly, Alfred Lackman
Downing, William Collins
Downing, Joseph Oscar
Dryden, Guy Frank
Dujmovich, Matteo Cosmo
Duncan, Louis Freeling
Durphy, Alfred Hartwell
Ecclestone, Charles Vollum, P. M.
Eckhart, Joseph
. Edelman, Abram Moses, P. M.
Edgar, Clarence William
Eichholz, Philip
Elsner, Emanuel
Ernst, Henry Picket
Evans, David P.
Eyrand, Emanuel
Faerber, William
Fallon, Frank Lorence
Finley, Charles Howard
Finnila, August
Fischer, Alois
Fisher, John
Fountain, Jesse Cooley
Fricke, William Charles
Fricke, William Charles, Jr.
Friegel, Fred G.
Fraser, Alexander
Gaffey, John Tracy
Gehrkens, William Henry
Germain, Edward
Germain, Eugene
Getchell, .Tohn Townsend
Gillett, Edgar W.
Uillespie, Frank
Glass, John Malcolm
Glascock, William Asa
Goldschmidt, Hugo
Goldschmidt, Marcus
Goldschmidt, Herman Hirsch
Goldsten, Joseph Cohen
6.

Goldsten, Morris Harry
Goldsworthy, Frank William
Goldsworthy, John James
Goiter, Edward
Gotthelf, David
Gotthelf, Aaron Solem
Graf, Siegfried
Graham, Angus, Jr.
Q-raham, Angus
Griffiths, Thomas
Griggs, William Francis
Gross, Frederick
Gross, George Washington
Guenther, John Adolph
Haber, Peter R.
Hamilton, Edwin Smyth
Hanscom, Lewis P.
Hartman, David
Hartnack, John Charles
Hauch, Isaac
Hein, Jacob
Heitchew, Abraham S.
Hellman, James Wolf
Hellman, Isaias William
Higson, .Tames Henry
Hiner, Elmer
Hirsh, Dave
Hoffman, William Michael
Holbrook, Frederick William
Hopkins, Harry Lincoln
Horen, Edwin
Hubbard, Oliver Clark
Hughes, John Rowland
Hyatt, William David
Iaeger, Louis John Frederick
Illich, John
Jameson, Walter
Jauch, Joseph Wilhelm
Jeffries, William Thomas
Johnson, Frank A.
Johnson, Luther Herman
Johnston, Albert Humboldt
Joyce;Thomas Francis
Julian, Edward Gustave
K ennedy, John Doby

81

ROSTER.
King, John, P. M.
Kingsbaker; Benjamin
Kircher, Hermann Otto
Klein, Julius S.
Klein, Morris, P. M.
Klein, Adolph
Krempel, Christian
Krempel, John Paul
Krohn, Henry George
Lane, Frank Joesph
Last, John Ludwig Adolph
Last, Carl Frederick August, P. M.
Langbein, Ernest Leslie
Leo, John
Leonia, Jean Baptiste
Leithead, Hiram Hyde
Levy, Elie Julius
LE>vy, Felix ·
Levy, Ralph Amite
Llewellyn, William
Longuevan, Joseph Beauregard
Maeder, Alfred Gottlob, P. M.
Maeder, Henry Julius
Magnus, Selmar
Maier, Simon
Maier, Joseph Frederick, P. M.
Martin, Carl William
Masac, Harry Will
Masac, Theophilus
Mayor, Frank William
McArthur, Clifford W.
McDowell, James
Mcinnis, August G.
McLeod, John Edward
McLeod, Simon
McStay, Walter Milton
Melczer, Joseph
Merritt, Elmer Philip
Meuschke, Edward Herman
Meye-r, James Benjamin
Meyer, Solomon
Meyer, William Aimee Bernhardt
Michelsen, George
Middleton, F!'ank Elmer
Miller, Edward Hall

Miller, Harry Crow
Miller, Carl Gregg, P. M.
Miller, Joseph
Mittendorf, Louis Ernest
Mitton, Benjamin Russell
Moir, Frank
Moore, Walter Scott
Moore, James Lloyd
Morris, Julius Louis
Morrow, Henry Harvil
Muswick, Max Fred
Nelson, AleX&nder Philip
Newmark, Harris
Newmark, Max Nathan
Noel, James
Northmore, Emanuel Richard
Norton, Moses
Norton, Isaac
Norton, Isaac Henry
Odenthal, Hubert
Oder, Heinrich Johannes Ernst
Pamucina, Mitchel
·
Pattillo, James Nelson
Paulson, Paul
Peck, Thomas Charles
Pierce, Henry Alfonzo
Platt, Francis Edward
Prager, Charles, P. M.
PrEston, William Herman Frank B
Rademacher, Frank, P. M.
Rakoff, Joseph A.
Raphael, Robert Herman
Ramsay, Lewis Penoyer
Redican, Bernard
Reeder, Joseph Clark
Rosin, Benjamin
Roth, Edmoml
Roth, Max
Rudolph, Ernest Louis William
Ruoff, Albert
Rutz, George Adam
Russdl, Thomas Blaine
Ryan, Michael Edwin
Salinger, Victor Randolph
Satter, Anton

,,
8,,

ROSTER.

•

•

• •

Scheerer, Conrad
Schlesinger, Jacob
Schone, John
Schrein, Joseph Martin
Schroeder, Richard Albert
Seebold, Alexander Humboldt
Shaw, Thomas William
Shaug, William Bradford
Singer, Joseph
Singh, Sardar Hira
Skinner, James
Slavin, Alexander Gerson
Slotterbeck, Harry Walter
Smith, Benjamin Franklin Porter
Smith, James
Smith, Arthur Garfield
Solomon, John B.
Spear, Joseph
Specht, Joseph Christian
Spengler, Philip
Spindler, Moses
Stabe~, Emil Ernst
Stanton, Edwin
Starr, Elmer Moses
Stel'Ji, Emanuel Lionel
Stewart, Archie Earnest
Stewart, James Watson
Stoecklin, Arnold Joseph
Strohm, Thomas, P. M.
Sullans, Charles Clinton
Summerland, Theodore
Sunderland, Joseph

Kelly, Daniel Joseph

Switzer, Co=odore Perry
Taylor, Clarence John
Thurner, Gottlob Adolf
Theobald, Victor Hugo
'l'ileston, William Lount
Todd, Robert Asa
Vansyckle, George Warne
Vanneman, Albert Walter
Vest, Joseph Leroy
· Vogel, Herman Oscar
Wagner,. William James
Watts, William Lord
Weidner, Peter
Weinsveig, Mikel
Weisberger, Sam
Wells, Ashton Albert, P. M.
Wenzlow, Frederick William
Weyse, Rudolph Guenther
Wharton, Mesech
Whiting, Perry
Williams, George A.
Wirtz, Rudolph
Wise, Walter Dorsett, P. M .
Witkind, Simon
Wolff, Bernhar!1
Wolff, Isaac
Wolff, Louis Gottlieb
Woodbury, Edward
Worde~, Herbert Bairsto
Woollacott, Henry John
Yarrow, George Walter
Young, Albert Brooks
-304

WITHDRAWN:
Philbin, John Andrew

'·

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burns, James Franklin
And6rson, John Henry
Buffum, William Mansfield
Edleman, Abraham Wolf
Gollmel', Charles
Griffith, John McKim
Goldsworthy, John

DIED:
Hauerwass, John A.
Marx, Abraham
Mehr, GEorge
Platt, J csse
Prager, Samuel
Yapp, Frede.rick George

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

8-1

HIRAM LODGE, No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Tohn Burdis, Sen. Deacon,
Gerhard H. Duthmann, Master,
Wm. B. McKenzie, Jun. Deacon,
\Vm. Jeff. Moore, Sen. Warden,
Joh·n Edwin Frazier, Marshal,
Grant Hill, Jun. Warden,
John Adolphus Fisher, Treasurer, Reuben Kelley Berry, Steward,
Lucious Samuel Hubbard, Steward,
William Yeadon, Secretary,
William ·H . Skinner, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Hul;bard, Lucious Samuel
Burdis, John, P. M.
Hill, Grant
Bennett, Damascus, P. M.
McKenzie, William Burgess
Berry, Reuben Kelley
Moore, William Jefferson
:Brown, Edward Victor Daniel
Salmon, George Washington
Cantrell, Coswell Clay
Skinner, William Henry
Corsey, Malon Snyder
Staples, Alpheus Dow
Duthm11:nn, Gerhard Heinrich
Stone, Edward
Fisher, John Adolphus, P. M.
Warf, Andrew Jackson, P . M.
Frazier, John Edwin
Yeadon, William
Griffin, Earl Van Dorn
-.21
Harvey, George Washington
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Miller, Daniel Peter
Coblentz, Cerf
Morbeck, Theodore Charles
Col;lentz, David

Bidstrup, Ferdinand

DIED:
Briggs, Lewis Madison

MOUNT MORIAH LODGE, No. 44·
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Chas. McK. Lindsay, Sen. Deacon,
Clarence Erikson, Master,
Geo. Wash. Haberly, Sen. Warden, Edmund Tauszky, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Joseph McElroy, Marshal,
George McLean, Jun. Warden,
Daniel Bradford Richards, Steward,
John Fred'k Schroth, Treasurer,
Louis Hartwell Price, Steward,
Theodore Frolich, Secretary,
Hans Gustav Frederickson, Tyler.
Wm. Henry Dolling, Ch.aplain,

I

•

MEMBERS:
Adam, Herman
Cevasco, Giovanni Battista
Adler, Adolph
Chase, Nathaniel Linton
Allen, William George
Chamberlain, Aaron Lewis, P M.
Altenburg, August
Chassagne, Leon
Ames, Frank Holmes
Cochran, James Henry
Ames, Frank Mortimer
Co'hl, Morris
Amey, George Henry
.Conmy, Thomas Cherry, P. M .
Anderson, Alfred Henry
Cornwall, Frank
Anderson, Carl Alfred
· Cranmer, Fred
Anderson, Charles James
Crawley, John Edwin
Anderson, Marquitt
Crittenden, Joseph Lambert, P. M.
Anderson, Otto Evart
Cunningham, Thomas Stanley
Currier, Amos
Anderson, Sterling
Davies, Ezekiel William
Andrews, Thomas Patrick
Anthony, Herbert Mills
Davis, David
Davis, Henry Laurens
ApplegatP., George Brenton
Davis, John Warner
Baker, Charles Arnold
Barbat, William Benjamin Franklin Davis, Morris White
Demartini, Frank Jerome
Barnard, Frank
Diers, Peter Matthias
Barnett, Harry
Diez, Castor Cayetano
Barry, Edgar Stephen
Dixon, John Meneely
Batchelder, Nathan Prescott
Dixon, Randall McDonald
Bell, Joseph Vincent
Dixon, William John
Bemis, Charles Cook
Benson, Nils Peter
Dolling, William Henry, P. M.
Bergen, Alexander
Dondero, Charles
Bergerot, Pierre Alexander
Donovan, Allen Ward
Bernhart, Peter Daniel
Doolittle, William Gorham, P M.
Bernstein, Max
Eaton, Frederick Ward
Bernstein, Philip
Eberhart, Adolph, P. M.
Ellery, Epes
Bestandig, Max
Bouteiller, Engel).e Louis
Ellison, Thomas
Boyd, Frank
Engdahl, Ernest Olof
Erikson, Clarence
Boyer, William Edward, P. M.
Bradley, John Samuel
Erken, Charles Henry
Bredhoff, Charles Martin
Ertola, ,Joseph Frederick
Burke, Edmund William
Etienne; Emile
Burke, William Gordon
Etienne, Victor, Jr.
Bury, Valentine Ryder
Everett, Daniel Henry, P. M.
Figel, Joseph
Bush, Hyman Philip
Fischer, Oscar
Calden, Guy Chester
Calvin, William Henry
Fish, George Lewis
Campbell, Sterling Kindall
Flynn, Thomas Emmett
Focha, William Francis
Caswell, George William

85

86
Ford, Campbell
Fredrickson, Hans Gustav
Freeman, Elisha
Freiermuth, George Henry
Frolich, Theodore, P. M.
Geist, William
Gerrans, Henry William
Greub, Gustav Adolph
Gilbert, George Shoebridge
Gilman, Samuel Walter
Goldberg, Jacob
Gordan, Jacob
Gruver, Charles Silvamoius
Gunderson, Severin Tobias
Gunn, William John
Haberly, George Washington
Hacke, William Conrad, P. M.
Halsted, Eminel Potter
Harper, Fred Fogg Gale
Harris, Thomas Voel
Harshall, Gustav
Hart, Oscar Herman
Harvey, William Alonzo
Hatteroth, William Henry Carl
liaughy, James Clarkson
liause.r, Albert Maria
Haussler, Frederick Otto
Haviside, Harry Thomas
Healey, William Wilford
Hennings, John Henry Marius
Henrickson, Olaus
Henry, Carl Albert
Herbst, Herschel Herman
Herrguth, Frank Peter
Hertlein, Henry
Heyneman, Hcr:nan
Hiett, Julius SylvPster
Hill, Edwin Potter
~ilmer, Frank Ernest
Hilmer, Fred Louis
Hjul, Christian Hansen
Hoadley, Hermann Muller
Hodgen, Joseph Dupuy
Holladay, Samuel Wirt
Holmes, Jam£s Gilmour

ROSTER.
Horstmann, William John
Hyde, Alexander
Hyman, Presley Corl;>in
Irving, Samuel
Israel, Arthur Clarence
Jackson, Howard Randall
Jacobs, Albert
Jacobs, Albert Pocorny
':Jacobs, Arthur Felton
Jacobs, Henry
Jenkel, John Rudolph August
Jrns, John Charles, P. M.
Johnson, Otto John Henry
Jones, George Edward
Jorgensen, Lawrence
Kato, Frans Ludwig
Kelly, John
Kerr, John
Kimball, John Albion
Kimball, John Carpenter, P . M.
King, William Russell
Klein, Frederick Wilhelm
Koepke, Hans Joachim H.
Krone, Carl Antone
Krone, Frederick Wilhelm
Krone, Frederick William, Jr.
Lander, Charles John
Lascy, Frank Howard
Lebenbaum, Louis
Lemmermann, John Hermann Henry
Lenoir, Emile
Levy, Herman
Lillie, Augustus .Seabury
Lindsay, Charles McKerral
Lindsay, Thomas
Linne, John Conrad
Lippman, George W.
Louderback, Davis, P. M.
Lutley, Edward
MacFarland, John
Maguire, Eugene Burns
Mason, Edward William
Mathews, Harvey, P. M.
Math;wson, Clifford Earl
McCallan, John

ROSTER.

•

•

McCaw, William Nassau
Price, Louis Hartwell
McDaniel, Willard
Price, Thomas
McElroy, William Joseph
Raabe, Charles Edward
McGuire, James
Raabe, Frederick Otto
McKay, William
Radston, George
McKellar, John
Rads'ton, Julius
McLean, George
Rankin, Augustus Hermance
McLean, John
Rawe, John Henry
McNab, James
Read, John Herbert
Menzel, William
Reeb, Ferdinand
Merrill, Isaac McGaw
Richards, Harry Griffin
Merry, Thomas
Richards, John David
Meyer, Marcus Cauffman
Roberts, Joseph Lazarus
Mires, Edward
Robbins, Ethel Alvin
Moller, Heinrich
Rolls, John Sellers
Montealegre, Carlos Francisco
Rossbach, Charles Henry
Morrison, James Renshaw
Rosskamp, Hermann
Nagel, Carl Siegfried Gunther
Scheer, Gustavus Adolphus
Nagle, Charles Grant
Schlesinger, Bert
Nash, Jay Thomas
Schloss, Benjamin
Nelson, ·Alexander
Schmalzlen, William
Nelson, James Henry
Schmidt, Valentine
Newell, Joesph
Schmitt, Adam Albert
Newhouse, William Gerhart
Schoenfeld, David Charles
Newman, Charles Bleistein
Schroth, Charles Albert
Nicholson, William Drake
Schroth, John Frederick, P. M.
Nicol; James
Schubert, Hugo George
Nilsson, Nils Axel
Schulz, Adolf Henry
Nixon, Thomas
Seibel, Frederick Lacey
NorID;and, Emile Henri
Seibel, Philipp
0 'Connell, Thomas
Seiler, Adolph Paul
Ohnstein, Oscar Julius Emil Eugene Seiler, Paul G. Adolphus, P, M.
Olsson, John Olof
Sellman, Johan Alfred
0Rborn, Corra Mahlon
Sheldner, Philip
Ott, Michael George
Shafer, Henry
Packer, James, Jr.
Siebs, John Henry
Palmer, Henry
Sladky, Josef Adam
Parker, David Stout
Smith, Herbert Le Baron
Pasquale, Henry Camille
Smith, John Henry
Pels, Louis Edward
Smith, Samuel Burriss
Petersen, Andrew
Smits, Henry Aldegondus Joseph
Phillips, William Edward
Sorensen, Charles
Plato, George Morris
Soulier, Joseph
Post, Ernest Mortimor
Spencer, Frank Aaron
Price, Benjamin Tydfil
Springett, Arthur Alfred

87

88

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Vogler, Albert John Henry
Stahl, John Jacob
Wagstaff, Thomas Hamlet
Stark, William Henderson
Walker, David Edward
Steinman, Bernard
Walley, Emil Engelberth
Stewart, Thomas Henry, Jr.
Wallman, Bodo Andrew
Straus, Auguste Lazar
Wallmann, Johann Gordon
Sullivan, Michael John
Walters, John Franklin
Suss, Charles Frederick
Ward, Herbert Foster, P. M.
Sweeney, John Joseph
Warriner, Frank Terry·
Tauszky, Edmund .
Webster, Charles John
Thompson, Nathaniel
Weidman, George Elias
Tillman, Leopold
Whearty, Peter Francis
Todd, James Howard
Whitcomb, Frank Randolph, P. M.
Toohey, Cornelius
Wikander, John
Travers, Charles Stevens
Wilson, David
Trobock, Bartholomew Nicholas
Witt, Julius
Trudgett, Robert Davis
Wolff, William
Turner, George Angell
Woodside, Alexander, P. M
Usher, William Henry
Woolley, Lell Hawley
Vaenberg, Abraham
Van Sicklen, Frederick Wetherbee Wulzen, Frederick George
-310
Zion, Edwin Ray
Vensano, Harry Chittenden

Boyd, Frank Fishbourn
Beattie, John Wilson C.

CRESCENT LODGE, No. 45.
Crescent City, Del Norte County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

•

•

WITHDRAWN:
Dickson, Robert Alexander
Friedman, Harry William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McLaughlin, Michael
Belz, Johannes
Pearce, William
Grant, George Simpson
DIED:
Olson, Bent
Dennis, Samuel William
Richards, David M:athews
Highton, Henry Edward
Schulenburg, Adolph
Holmes, Charles Stewart
Wilkie, Alfred John R.
Lippman, Joseph
Wilson, Endoras Joseph

89

.,

.

t

•

OFFICERS:
Phylander L. Elwell, Master,
Daniel Rea, Senior Deacon,
Orrin Dudley, Sen. Warden,
Walter James Jones, Junior Deacon,
Herbert Jos. Thomas,. J11n. Warden, Thomas George Martin, Marshal,
Jacob Marhoffer, Treasurer,
James Benson, Steward,
Greenleaf Curtis, Secretary,
· Abraham A. Barnebury, Steward,
John R. Peveler, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Frank Levi
Morris, Samuel
McLaren, Willie Washington
Adams, Michael
Barnebury, Abraham Aaron
McLaurin, Douglas Cameron
Beam, John Daniel
McVey, Joseph Hutson
Beacom, Charles Wakfield
McVey, Samuel Hutson
Benson, James
Nelson, Charles
Bowman, James Pierre
Nichols, William Lucius
Payton, Earl James
Brooking, James
l'eveler, John Randolph
Browne, Augustus Frank, P. M.
Uhilc1s, John Leon
Peveler, Daniel Cassidy
Crusins, Frank
Rice, Drury White, P. M.
Crook, Theron Webster
Rice, Charles Edgar
Crook, Asa Hamilton
Richard, Fred William
Rea, Daniel
Curtis, Greenleaf, P. M.
Reynolds, Harry Clendenin
Cutler, Fletcher Arnold
Sands, John Austin
Cutting, Chester Edwin, P. M.
Dudley, Orrin
Sartwell, Dugal Stewart
Shirley, J ec1idiah William
Duly, West
Snavely, John Wesley
Edwards, Hugh Jones
Elwell, Phylander Leighton
Stevens, Philip
Stone, Bertram, P. M.
Frame, Franklin Perry
Schwartz, William John
Gutch, Herman August
Hamilton, William Hart
Snyder, Augustus Charles
Hunt, John Winchester
Tack1 Nicholas
Jones, Walter James
Tryon, George Edwin
Klinke, William August
Thomas, Herbert Joseph
Whitlow, William Allrn
Lake, Joseph Lincoln
Lind, Frank
Winton, Raleigh Scott
Marhoffer, Jacob
Windle, Joseph
Marhoffer, Frank Mason
Wall, Joseph Aaron
Walton, George Curtis
Marlow, Frank Columbus
Martin, Thomas George
Wulf William Francis
Yarborough, Louis
-66
Manly, George Winfield

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

WITHDRAWN:
Dingle, Ruben Raymond

FORBESTOWN LODGE, No. 50.

90

91

· Forbestown, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

DIED:
Peveler, Peter Henry

• •

TEXAS LODGE, No. 46.
San Juan, San Benito County.

•

t

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

OFFICERS:
William Read Flint, Master,
Irvin Webster Moore, Sen. Deacon,
William W . Canfield, Sen. Warden, Fred'k Wm. Kemp, Jun. Deacon,
Jau Don Ball, Jun. Warden,
Robert W. Flint, Marshal,
Mark Joseph Regan, Treasurer,
Joseph Sylvester Willcox, Stewa.rd,
Arthur Smith Moore, Secretary,
Benjamin Flint, Steward,
Thomas George Lewis, Chaplain,
James Miles, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ashley, James Henderson, P. M.
Ashby, Jashuy Louis
Baldwin, Thomas Seary
Ball, Jau Don
Bullier, Leon
Burnett, William Fletcher
Burnett, Clarence Elbert
Canfield, William Walton
Canfield, Samuel Russell
Flint, Benjamin
Flint, Thomas, P. G. M.
Fiint, Richard Hall
Flint, William Read, P. M.
Flint, Robert Winchester
Forrester, Arthur Bruce
Jean, George William

Kemp, Frederick William
Lewis, Thomas G.
Morton, Frank
Miles, James
Mitchell, George Francis
Moore, Arthur Smith, P. M.
Moore, George Holmes, P. M.
Moore, Irvin Webster, P. M.
Mylar, Isaac
Norton, Roscoe Greene, P. M.
Ouderkirk, Isaac
Regan, Mark Joseph
Slay!man, Charles Reese
Stewart, Archibald
Welch, Harty
Willcox, Joseph Sylvester
-32

..

.

OFFICERS:
William John Schultz, Master,
John David Herrin, Senior Deacon,
Hiram Edw. Parker, Sen. Warden, Chas. Fred'k Bouvier, Jun. Deacon,
Chas. Francis Adams, Jun. Warden, Gaylord S. W. Twogood, Marshal,
J ohn Fredrich Schultz, Treasurer, Henry Asbury Conwell, Steward,
Alex. Ellis Anderson, Secretary,
'rhomas Julius Belfranci, Steward,
Maxwell Gaddis Hill, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Francis
Hurles, Smith Hetherington
Allen, John Emmet
Jenks, William Napoleon Bonapart
Alm, Fred Osker
Kratzer, Daniel Webster
Anderson, Alexander Ellis, P. M.
Lilja, Andrew
Beeve, Louis Joseph
Lisbon, Joseph Ribero
Beik, Henry Albert
Lord, Frederick King
Bouvier, Charles Frederick
Miller, John Barrie
Burroughs, Frank Cecil
Morrison, John Raphael
Burroughs, Julian
Ni.vens, William Lincoln
Cannon, Albert C.
Price, Gabriel William
Chappell, Wallace Homer, P. M.
Parker, Hiram Edward
Conwell, Henry Asbury
Robertson, Edgar Simpson
Cox, William David .
Schultz, William John, P. M
Crandall, Abraham Lincoln
Schultz, John Fredrich
Curtis, Benjamin Franklin
Slater, Nicholas Weaver
Daley, Garret Clarence
Smullin, Samuel Nesbit Dallas
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, P. M .
Stocker, Edmund
Finch, John Milton
Twogood, Gaylord Smith W .. P. M.
Gildmacher, Melchior
Turner, John Calvin
Herrin, John David
Wagner, Frank B.
Hill, Maxwell Gaddis, P. M .
Wic)rman, Fred William
Hill, Georg·e Washington
--43
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Braddock, David Washington
DIED:
·sullivan, Philip

9'.l

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

ILLINOISTOWN LODGE, No. 51.

SUISUN LODGE, No. 55.

93

Suisun, Solano County.
Colfax, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Ralph Merriman Sheldon, Master, Samuel Robert Barnett, Sen. Deaco1i,
Brenton R. Stewart, Sen. Warden, Wm. Sherman Davisson, Jun. Deacon,
John Houston Murray, Jun. Warden,Frede rick Winn Rush, Marshal,
Edgar Ernest Long, Treasurer,
Daniel H. White, Steward,
Seneca Jones, Secretary,
Edgar L. Stewart, Steward,
Peter Dannser, Tyler.
0

No Certificate.

ME:MBERS:
Miner, Edgar Delancy
Ackerm'.tn, Francis Marion
Moginn, Patrick Henry
Bessett, William Nelson
Morrison, Robert Gordon
Booth, Garrett
N eidefl'er, John Fleming
Butler, Walter Lyon
Norton, Darius Valmore
Cadjew, Leland
Peers, Robert Alway, P. M.
Culver, Walter Ray, P. M.
Raymond, Percy Miles
Dysart, John
Reeder, George Avery
Edwards, Richard
Rondoni, Aguilero
Ewers, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Russell, Daniel A.
Falconer, Duncan
Russell, Melvin
Gersendorfer, Charles Andrew
Schultze, Frederick Henry
Gersendorfer, John
Scott, Enoch Everett
Gersendorfer, George
Sewell, Thomas .John
Gersendorfer, William Paul
Smith, Albert Halliday
Griffith, Owen William
Stevens, Amos, P. M.
Hallock, Robert F. Lattimer
Specei, Charles Avery
Henry, Alexander Culberson
Vore, Edmund
Hayford, William Barrows, P. M.
West, George Edward
Hayford, James Barrows
West, James Edwar<l
Jones, Frank Ellis
Wiesler, Willi~m Henry
Lobner, Morris, P. M.
Williamson, James Raycroft
Lobner, Henry
Whitcomb, Robert Everett
McCleary, ~ohn Blain
DIED:
Butler, John

• •

MEMBERS:

t

•
-46

..
•

Alen, William Edward
Bacon, William
Bailey, Thomas B.
Barnett, Samuel Robert
Bauman, Jacob Henry
Bennett, Newton C.
Berner, August
Bransford, Samuel Grant
Brown, John Stewart
Brown, William Bernard
Cerkel, Wolf
Chadbourne, Grant
Chatfield, Walter
Cornish, George Oney
Danielson, Johan
Daughters, John James
Davisson, William Gustavus, P. M.
Davisson, William Sherman
Dickie, Albert Alexander, P, M.
Dinkelspiel, Meyer, P. M.
Downing, William Green
Elliot, Harvey R.
Finney, Henry Edward
Freeman, William Joseph
Gabriel, Ferdinand William
Gapin, John Magee
Gillespie, George Anthony, P. M.
Gregory, Thomas T. C.
Guill, Etna Ewing

Haile, John William
Hale, William Crosby
Harbor, John Franklin
Hart, Frank Russell
Hilborn, Edward Payson
Hildebrand, William Sherman
Hoyt, William Kimball
Hunnewell, Freeman
Jones, Seneca
Keene, Kendall Clifton
Kemp, Emile B. P.
Loeser, Carl Frederick
Long, Edgar Ernest
Macrandrius, Elias
Malchi, John
Manwaring, Charles Augustus
Martin, Lucius D.
Mayfield, Charles Edgar
McCormack, Duncan W .
Miller, Allen Charles, P. M.
Miller, George Carlyle
Montgomny, Thomas S.
Moore, William James
Morrill, Frederick Lewis
Murray, John Houston
Oberti, Joseph
Pierce, William
Polland, James Samuel
Prather, James Hiram, P. M.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

1}4

Stephens, William Bell
Reed, Albert Leroy
Richardson, Jerome Bonaparte, P.M.Stewart, Brenton Rupel
Stewart, Edgar L.
Rinken, John Charles
Stratton, Lee R.
Robbins, John Lloyd MeC.
Tornasini, Guiliano
Robbins, Ruel Drinkwater, P. M.
Votypka, John
Rush, Benjamin Franklin
Watkins, Wilbur Kemble
Rush, Frederick Winn
Weinberger, Mareus
Salisbury, Reuben B.
Wetmore, Chester
Scarlett, Samuel
Wells, Roy Johnson
Sheldon, Frederiek Corydon
White, Daniel H.
Sheldon, Hiram Franklin
Willson, Robert Martin
Sheldon, Ralph Merriman, P. M.
Wilson, John Andrew
Shorey, Sumner A.
Woods, Warren Anthony
Spenee, James Underhill, P. M.
Steller, Louis Palmer

MEMBERS:
· Mason, Warren Quiney, P. M .
McKenzie, Cory
McKinnon, Malm Campbell
McLane, Wm. Chester
MeRae, Lawrenee Angus
Miller, Louis F.
Nichols, G. C.
Real, An tone Lewis
Rinehart, Ottis Wash
Roberts, James Hubbard
Ryan, William
Santirfo, Edward
Smith, William
Ubbens, Herman Miehael, P. M.
Wallenberg, Charles
Whitehead, Henry Geo.
Webster, Ottis Lineoln
-34

Adams, Alexander
Barrett, Thomas Gilman
Bradshaw, Clarenee, P. M.
Cook, Lewis Horton
Denencl, Griffith
Dillian, Williani
Fessel, Edward Wm.
Fisher, David, Sr.
Fisher, David, Jr.
Frye, Ruben Frederick
Freiman, Harry Nieholas, P . M.
Gianini, Domonico
Grillo, August
Grillo, John Batista
Hamilton, James
Hipkins, William Asbery
Hughes, Samuel

•

-87

WITHDRAWN:
Anderson, John Alden

WITHDRAWN:
Lucott, George Washington

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Harris, Henry
Gifford, William Leonard

..

EXPELLED:
FigEley, Charles MeGill

Benthien, Henry
Chemas, Nicholas

95

DIED:
Lost, Eugene Albert
Pc·rkins, Herman

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Berry, George Albert
Walkn, Edward Francis
Glenn, William Jay
Watkins, Rufus .Augustus
DIED:
Schmidt, John

VOLCANO LODGE, No. 56.

SANTA ROSA LOD.GE, No. 57.

Volcano, Amador County.

Santa Rosa, Sonoma County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moo1J

Stated Meetings, seeond Wednesday in eaeh month.

OFFICERS:
John Batista Grillo, Senior Deacon,
Clarence Bradshaw, Master,
Herman Michael Ubbens, Sen. War., Charles Wallenberg, Junior Deacon .
August Grillo, Jfarshal,
Cory McKenzie, Junior Warden,
Griffith Denend, Steward,
Otis Lincoln Webster, Treasurer,
James Hamilton, Steward,
Edward Wm. Fessel, Secretary,
Domenico Gianini, Tyler.

Elbert Ransom Sawyer, Master,
Edmund Phelps Lewis, Sen. Deacon.,
Marvin Thomas Vaughan, Sen. W.,Lewis B. Laws~n, Junior Deacon,
James Thomson Mailer, Junior W., William Howard Goodman, Marshal.
Charles Dwight Barnett, Treasurer, Benjamin Franklin Ballard, Steward.
William Henry Pool, Secretary,
Charles J acobs, Steward,
John Elliot,Chaplain,
Charles Bernard Kobes, Tyler.

OFFICERS:

•

96

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Colgan, George Washington
Connelly, Frank Henry
Cooper, Eugene Marcus
Cox, Exum Morris, P. M.
Crane, Alexander Thomas
Crawford, Erlwin Henry
Crawford, Richard Fruit
Cross, Frank G.
Crowder, Henry Crawford, P M.
Cunningham, Charles S.
Davis, Walter Scott
Decker, Danville
DeLappe, Russell
Doda, Battista Giovanni
Dohn, George Arthur
Dohn, George Ernest
Dondero, John B.
Doran, William James
Dougherty, Samuel Kimmel
Dowell, John
Downes, Ernest
Downey, Abnu David
Dunbar, John
Duncan, James Parker
Duprey, Augustus Francis
Einhorn, Joseph Herman
Elliott, .John
Erwin, Albert Orland
Fahrion, George Washington
Farmer, Christopher Columbus
Finley, Harrison
Finley, William Asa
Fitts, John Perry
Flint, Willard Bert
Forsyth, Henry Mizer
Fountain, Orlando
Foye, George Frederick
~'rank, Nels Christiansen
Franklin, Job Henry Richard
French, Charles Franklin
Fryer, Roy
Gilman, Lewell Jesse
Glynn, Francis J. B.
Goodman, Leopold Solomon

Acton, William
Ahrens, William Martin
Andrews, George Ewing
Arnold, Amasa W.
Ayers, George Lemuel
Bailey, Jesse William
Baker, Walter Hussey
Ballard, Benjamin l!'ranklin
Bane, Frank Preston
Barnett, Charles Dwight, p , M.
!Secker, John
Belden, Benjamin Clinton
Belden, Charles Clinton
Belden, Ralph Austin
Benson, William
Berka, Frank
Bernstein, Isaac William
Bertolani, Peter America
Bertolani, Pietro
Body, Fred N.
Body, Mark, P. M.
Boehmer, John
Bogle, Samuel Saffell
Bonar, Robert M.
Bonney, Alfred Truscott
Bowman, Thomas
Brandt, Louis
Braughler, Martin
Broadwell, Chas. Stanley
Bronson, Eugene Grant
Brown, Arthur DeWitt
Brown, William Elias
Bruning, Christopher Henry Wm.
Bryant, Allen
Bumbaugh, Charles Martin, P. M.
Burgess, James Floyd
Burleson, Allan Lucien
Burnett, Altert G., P. M.
Burris, Frank Marion
Burris, Luther William
Burris, Shirley David
Campbell, John Tyler, P. M.
Carter, Dani€! . Putnam
Cline, Henry Christian, P. M

ROSTER.

•

••

Goodman, William Howard
<.toodwin, Vernon, P. M.
Green, Lincoln D.
uriflith, Archer C.
Urohe, Fred
Hahman, Henry Gustav
Hall, Joseph Edward
Hardie, Albert Milton
Harden, Ephraim
hatch, Irvin Olifton Haven, Clarence
Henry, James
Herrick, Albert Benjamin, P. M.
hicks, James Oliver ·
Hildebrand, Newton Francis
Hill, Lyman C.
Hockin, William
Hodge, Alexander Ladd
Hosmer, Stanley
Hosmer, Winslow Simon
Houts, Orrie L.
Hoyt, Jesse Douglas
Hurlstone, Richard Brain
Hutchison, Lawrence
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Charles
Jacobs, Himmie W.
Jesse, James William
Johnson, Andrew
Johnston, Fred L.
Jones, William
Jordan, Leslie Agostine
Juell, Nils Roth H.
.Tuilliard, Charles Frederick
Kennedy, Charles Alexander
Klein, Joseph
Kobes, Charles Bernard, P. M.
Korbel, Anton Francis
Lafranchi, Massimino
Lane, Carlton Alpheus, P. M.
Lark, Newton Allen:
Laughlin, Alex. Douglas, P. M.
Laughlin, John McGill, P. M
Lawson, Lewis B.
Lee, Charles Eugene

.7

97

Leete, Orton
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, P. M
Lemmon, Allen Bosley, Jr.
Lemmon, Fred Gage
Leslie, John, P. M.
Lewis, Edmund Phelps
Lewis, George Washington
Loomis, Frank Clemens
Luce, Arthur Sprague
Mackenzie, Alexander Calder
Mackenzie, Allan Ramsey
Mailer, James Clark, P. M.
Mailer, James Thomson
Mailer, James Robb
Mallory, George Washington, P. M.
Malott, Howard Oliver
Martin, David Elliott
Mason, Joseph B.
McConnell, William Ellitt
MacGregor, Allan P.
McCord, Smith Scott
McDonald, Mark Lingsey, Jr
McKenzie, Donald, P. M.
McKinlay, Duncan E.
McLeod, James Harvey
McMeans, Alexander Campbell, P.M.
McMinn, John, Sr.
McNab, Arthur Victor, P. M.
McNab, John Liddell
Meisner, Chas. Henry
Meneray, Prince Albert
Merritt, Edson Charles
Metcalf, Samuel W.
Miller, Thomas Boone
Mills, Emory Temple
Mobley, John Elmer
Moke, Henry_Herb!lrt
Morgan, William Cochrane
Morrison, Oscar
Mortenson, Hane
Nagle, Frederick Gough
Near, Christopher David
Nye, Berthold Max
Oates, James Wyatt
Overton, John Patton

ROSTER.
Paddock, Doctor .John
Page, Charles Albert
Page, David Cooper, P. M.
Page, Edward .Joseph
Palmer, George Washington
Patton, Dexter
Paxton, Blitz Wright
Peterson, Andrew
Peterson, Raford Wesley
Peterson, William Wilson
Phelps, Charles Lorranie
Philips, Edward James
Piggott, James Kenneth
Pool, William Henry
Porep, Walter Putnam
Potter, Eber Ward
Rainey, Abraham Clay, P. M,
Randall, Chester Earl
Reeve, Orson Henry
Reindollar, Theodore Buffington
Renshaw, Arthur Morrow
Reutershan, Max
Rhoades, Samuel
Ricksecker, Lucius Edgar
Robertson, Frank Clifford
Robinson Benjamin Meritt
Ross, Henry J., P. M.
Ro·ss, John
Ross, Thomas Daniel
Rowan, .James Hamilton
· Savage, Charles Wilber
Savage, George Walter
Sawyer, Elbert Ransom, P. M.
Schelling, Jacob
Schmidli, Joseph Herman
Scott, Alfred William
Seawell, Emmet
Seegelken, Joha.n Wilhelm
Shaffer, Reuben H.
Shaffer, Wilber Emmet
Sharp, Isaac
Shaw, William

Shearer, William Piper, P. M
Shriver, Nathan
·
Simpson, Willie Burton, P. M.
Sinclair, _Henry George
Slater, George Herbert Waite
Smith, John Calhoun
Smith, John Kinder
Smyth, Newton Van Vleit
Speegle, Madison Monroe
Spencer, Byron M.
Steiner, Frederick Charles
Stewart, John Hudson
Staley, Wayne Snoden
Stark, Leonard H.
Steele, John Ernest
Taylor, Charles De Witt
Taylor, John Shackleford
Temple, .Jackson
Thomas, George Perr'
Thompson, James Monroe
Thorson, Jesse Fremont
Townson, James Thomas
Tripp, Hiram Lewis, P. M.
'fupper, George Anderson
Underwood, Charles Howard
Upp, Arthur Frank
Vanderhoof, Martin Van Buren
Vaughan, Marvin Thomas
Ware, Allison Burr, P. M.
Warboys, .John Walter
Ward, Charles S.
West, Wilbur Samuel
Wetche, Christian Fredrik
Whitaker, Walter Lee
Wiles, John Marshall
Wines, William Freeman, P. M.
Wolfe, Gecnj?e
Wright, David B.
Yarnell, William. I.
Yoho, Samuel R.
Young, Frank William
-261

ROSTER,

99

WI'l'HDRA WN:
Crump, John M.
Gate8, Erastus Horatio
Green, Paul Franklin
Jones, Florin L.

•

Mortenson, Hans (2)
0 'Bryan, Leon Nelson
Smallwood, Edward B.
Woolsey, William Edgar

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Harris, Ephraim Drake
Nash, James Ashby
Rasmussen, Peter
DIED :

•

Bumpus, Cyrus Hamblin
Colgan, Edward Power
Davis, Henry Smith

Glenn, Robert
Griggs, William Benjamin
Nebl~tt, Edward
Swain, Reub en Morey

UNION LODGE, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each montb.
OFFICERS:
)

Charles Albert Root, Master,
Oscar G. Jones, Senior Deacon,
.John Franklin Morgan, Senior W., Wm. Osborn Swan, Jlmiot1 Deacon,
Chas. Edward Hill, Jun~or Warden, Edwin Hervey Harbey, Marshal,
August Meister; Treasurer,
Cordon, Lewis Pardee, Steward,
Edward Frederick Willi, Secretary, James George Harbinson, Steward,
William Thomas Phipps, Chaplain, Joel Osgood Wilder, Tyler.

'

•

MEMBERS:
Abrams, David
Boltz, Peter Sauser
Allen, John Francis
Brooke, Morris
Alexander, Robert, P. M.
Bruederly, William Sherman
Amold, Frederick William
Brummer, John Henry
Arnold, Horace Douglas
Burnside, Thomas Seth
Baker, Thomas John, P. M.
Butler, Drury DeWolf
Baldwin, William Hedges, P. M.
Butler, John Winchel Spencer
Baughman, Nobel Henry
Byers, Robert Hopkins
Bauer, John Jacob Rock
Carlan, Andrew
Baumann, Benjamin Stephen
Case, John Nelson
Bennetts, Alfred Ernest
Clark, William Edward
Berkey, Thomas Henry
ClauBB, John
Blauth, Theobalrl
Clement, Louis Metzler
Bliss, Sidney
Colclough, Dudley K.

100

ROSTER.

Cooledge, Isaac Baldwin, P. M.
Husted, William Joseph ·
Coyne,- William
Ingham, Harry
Cunningham, Alexander
Johnson, Howard Kennedy, P. M.
Denson, Samuel Crawford, P. G. M. Jones, Oscar G.
Douglas, William Wallace
Joy, Robert
Dreyer, Rasmus Peter Neilson
Judson, Frederick Walter
Eckhardt, William Henry
Kay, Edgar John
Egeberg, Julius Columbus
Kellam, William Henry Browning
Ehret, Stephen Henry
Kendriek, Colin
Eichrodt, Max
Keyes, Homer Frost
Ellsworth, William Munn
Kleinsorge, J<"rank Benjamin
Ellsworth Charles Henry
Kloppenburg, Daniel William
Enwright, Thomas Lincoln
Koch, Carl
Krebs, Harry Garfield
Feldhusen, John Henry
Lambert, Richard Hobart
Ferguson, James Henry, P. M.
Lawson, Walter Brokaw
Ferre, Albert Eames
Levison, .Jacot>
Fical, Charles A.
Lightner, .tSonus
Fitch, William Cyrus
Lindsley, Albert
Forney, Henry Hinkle
Little, Christopher
Ford, Quincy Albertis
Longton, Thomas Henry
Fourness, Eli
Marshall, Joseph Owen
Fox, David Franklin
Meister, August
Gardnier, Alexander John, P. M.
Meister, George Albert, P. M
Gerson, San:mel
Meister, Albert Reinhardt
Gleve, Harry Ernest
Meyer, Johann Gerhard
Gray, Frank Livingstone
Mitan, Henry
Gray, Geo~ge Addison
Moore, James Hoskiiis, P. M
Grimes, Allen Lawrence
Moore, Frederick WH!iam
(frinton, John Kennedy
Morgan, John Franklin
Haas, Nelson Willoughby
. Morrison, James Matthew
Hack, Julius Frederick
Morshead, William
Harbey, Edwin Hervey
Morehead, Philip
Ha.rbison, James, P. M.
Moulton, Dwight Augustus
Harbison, James George
McCormack, Charles
Hardlin, William Joseph
McCormick, Frank
Hart, Aden Cavins
McCulloch, James
Hawkins, William
McCr_eary, Robert Clark
Heitman, John Henry
McGregor, John
Henrich, Karl
McKay, Daniel
Hill, Charles Ewdard
McKeever, Francis May
Hicks, William Arthur
Nathan, Aaron
Hicks, John Benton
Nathan, Isador Carroll
Hoffman, Daniel Webster, P. M.
Newman, P eter
Hopkins, Owen Griffith
Newman, George
}Iuntington, Thomas Waterman

ROSTER.

•

f

•

•

Noack, Charles John
Swan, William Osborn
Noack, Carl William Gustave
Swift, Charles Judson
Nours~, Sterling Boyden
•reichert, Adolph
0 'Neill, Edward John, P. M.
Thiele, Ernest Arden
Oughton, William George
Thornton, Richard Parker
Pardee, Cordon Lewis
'l'olcman, Frank Augustus
Pcacocke, William
'l'ozer, Cliurles Walter
l'eck, Nelson Stanley
Turner, Eldridge Curts
Peterson, William Frederick
Uhl, George Adam
Phipps, William Thomas, P. M.
Uren, S tepllen
l ' ope, Edwin Alexander
Ur1:u, John Martin
Potter, Loyal Abner
Van Fleet, William Carey
Prince, Joseph William
Vaughn, Edward
Randle, George Nelson
·wahlandcr, Charles Grnrge
Redington, Alfred August:is, P. M. Wallace, Edward L ee Roy
Rego, Edwan l Sutherland
Wallace, Joseph F illmore
Reid, Thomas Benton, P. M.
Wait(', George Smith
Richards, William Freeman
Wclclt, Benjamin
Rickett, Walter L .
Wdch, George Drake
Root, Charles Albert
We bb, George Henry
Rothfield, Sigmund
Weston, Arthur Mel ville
Ruhstaller, Frank Joseph
White, George Amos, P. M.
Schmi d, Emil
White, John Lysander
Schroeder,Richard Franklin
White, George William
Schnab, William
Willi, William George
Scott, William
Willi, Edward Frederick, P. M.
Shaw, Ira Clark
Wilson, Benno, P. M.
Shelclon, William Chauncev
Wilson, James John
Shepstone, George Ebenez;r
Wilson, J esse Warren
Simmons, Samuel, P. M.
Wilder, Joel Osgood
Smith, J ohn· Edward
Wilder, J oel Ozgood, J r.
Smith, William Penn
Wilder, Edwin Milton
Smith, Benjamin
Witham, Gilber t Tapley
Smith, Samuel Augustus
Wolf, E dward
Stich, Harry Leo, P. M.
Wood, Richard R.
Stcffins, Joseph
Wright, Ralph
S tevens, Fred Andrew
Yoerk, Charles Augustus
Stevenson, Henry Llewellyn
Younger, Andrew
Stoddard, George Allen
- 195
WITHDRAWN:
McWa de, David Dale
SUSPEN DE D FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dutcher, Willard P erry
Bauer, John Jacob Roc.k .

101

ROSTER.

102

ROSTER.

DIED:
Bates, Joseph
Curtis, George Pn ry
Gregg, George

103

PLUMAS LODGE, No. 60.

Rock, John William
Woolston, William
Vv'illi, Os-car John

Quincy, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•
GRAVEL RANGE LODGE, No. 59.
Camptonville, Yuba County.

•

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

MEMBERS:

OFFICERS:

Francis G. Jackson, Mastei·,
Joseph Paul Pendola, Sen. Deacon,
Samuel B. Johnson, Senior Warden, Peter Mondada, Junior Deacon,
Chas. Hampton Kennady, Jun. W., Thomas J. Byrd, Marshal,
Earl LeRoy Cleveland, Ti-eas111;er,
Eathm N. Polley, Steward,
Rolin Cadish Groves, Secretary,
Alfred Anderson, Steward,
Francis Lewis, Chaplain,
Jeremia~ Watts, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, Alfrerl
Meek, Wm. Bull, P. M.
Byrd, Thomas Jeffuson
Merriam, James Chester·
Cleveland, Earl Leroy, P. M.
Mondada, Peter
Fiess, John Wm.
Pendola, Joseph Paul
Jackson, Francis Gorden, P. M.
Phillips, John William
Kennady, John Henry, P. M.
Polley, Eathm Nathan
Kendall, Edwar.1 C.
Scott, James Warren
Lake, George Wesley
Stidger, John Perry
Lewis, Francis
Watts, Jeremiah, P. M.
Lewis, David
Williams, Thomas
Lawrence, Ri<'ha:rd K.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cunningham, Edward F.
Hosking, George
McLrnn, Alexander
DIED:
Kennady, John R.

Smith, Henry

-21

.

Louis Albert H: Kling, Master,
Arthur Howe Thomas, Senior Dea.,
Leon Lowell Clough, Senior Ward., Charles Snider Myers, Junior Dea.,
Horace Park McBeth, Junior Ward., Gilbert Palmer, Marshal,
John Franklin Spooner, Treasurer, William Malcolm, Steward,
Robert Fred Koonter, Secretary,
Joseph Lewis Leek, Steward,
William Thomas Byers, Tyler.

.

.. '

Barrett Louis Archa
Byers, Wm. Thomas
Clough, Leon Lowell
Dunham, Allen Murry
Eisner, David
Ford Walter Jackson
Felleman, John Irving
Garner, Edward
Gifford, John
Goodwin, John Daniel, P. M.
Goodwin, Wil)iam Nettles, P. M.
Goodwin, Samuel Daniel
Gray, Asa White, P. M.
Gruss, Joseph
Hail, Felix Grundy
Hail, Herbert Felix
Hanvey, Charles Brace Hewitt
Johnson Frank Evean
Keddie, Arthur Walter, P. M
Kerr, Michael Charles
Kling, Louis Albert Henry
Koonter, Robert Fred
Leek, Joseph Lewis

Lasswell, Bert James
Larison, James Hardin
Leopold, Asa Freudenthal
Maurer, Henry Rudolph
Malcolm, William
Mechling, Jacob Jefferson
Moncnr, James Ogilvie, P. M.
Myer11, Charles Snider
McBeth, Horace Park
McChesney, Joseph, P. M.
McCleave, Samuel
McComas, William Pratt
McLennan, Kenneth
Palmer, Gilbert
Spooner, John Franklin
Stephen, George Henry
Stewart, Robert
Strite, George A.
Thomas, Arthur Howe
Thompson, Charles Russell
Wagner, Lewis Herman
Webb, IDysses Sigel
Wilson, George
-46

ROSTER.

104

ROSTER.

LIV E OAK L ODGE, No. 61.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Harry Vance Blasdel, Master,
Albert Franklin Shulte, Senior D.,
Martin Meno Hoffman, Senior W., Guy Duncan Reynolds, J11n. Deacon,
Charles Henry Wood, Jun. T¥arden, Lorenzo D. S. Inskeep, Marshal,
Percy B. Hardenbergh, Treasurer, William August Rasmusen, Stew(Jrd,
Junia Josiah Warner, Secretary,
Frank Elijah Buckley, Steward,
Albert Harris Trathen, Chaplain,
Albert Bistorious, Tyler.

Abernethy, William John
Adams, Henry Hamilton
Aiken, Benjamin Rosell
Akerly, James Clark Smith
Akins, Edward Charles
Allen, Alex. McMillan
Allyn, Burton Charles
Amaden, Ralph J.
Andersen, Magnus Alfred
Anderson, Charles Alfred
Anderson, Charles John
Anderson, Harry Severin
Andrews, Charles William
Angwin, James Alfred
Angwin, William Stanley
Arlett, Arthur
Arper, George Washington
Arrowsmith, William H.
Atkinson, Thomas Albion
Austln, Harry
· Avery, Edward Everett
Avery, Mark Herbert
Baab, Charles
Bachelder, Carl Amee
Badgley, William Oscar
Baggot, Ed Protzman
.Bahls, Richard
Bailey, William Hervey
Baker, Abel Warren Jr.
Baker, David Franklin

MEMBERS:
Baker, Eugene Hall
Baldwin, Robert Oliver
Ball, Clinton Cory
Ball, Charles Henry
Bandy, George Lewis
Barnes, William Chauncey
Barnes, William Holland
Bartram, Robert. Washington
Bauer, Jacob
Baumgartner, Andrew Fred
Baumgartner, August Christoph
Beach, Ranson Elias
Beckwith,.John Allison, P. M
Belden, Willi!J.m All.e n
Bennett, Robert Howard
Eeretta, Italo Andrew
Bergsten, Oscar Paulus
Bibber, Thomas Benjamin
Bice, 'John
Bilger, Frank William
Bird, Charles Gladstone
Bishop, Amasa Wright, P. M.
Bistorious, Albert
Blair, George Washington
Blasdel, Enoch Wilder
Blasdel, Harry Vance
Blood, William Frank
Boardman, J oeeph
Boardwater, William Elgin
Boldt, William Lewis

•

.

.

•

.

Boland, Archie Frederick
• Bolza, William
Borgeson, Charles John
Borton, Chester Cooper
Botsford, Edwin Russell
Bowers, Charles Levi
.Bowersmith, John Everett
Bradley, Arthur James
Bradway, Frank Fernando
Brady, Edward. Jam es
Braun, Nathaniel Henry
Brazelton, · Warren Buck
Broad, Charles Augustus
Brooks, Frank Howard
Brown, Norris James
Brown, William Mainland, Jr.
Browne, Harry Rosekrans
Buckley, Frank Elijah
Bullock, Richard Steele
Burch, George Emerson
Burnham, William Sanford
Burt, Frederick Leslie
Bush, Harry Charles, P. M.
Buteau, Samuel Hawkins
Campbell, Charles Hardie
Campbell, JamEs
Campbell, John
Capwell, Harris Cebert
Carlton, Harry Putnam
Carpenter, Thomas Edgar
Carroll, George Warren
Castell, Clarence Whitney
Chamberlin, William Richmond
Chambers, Wilfred Ernest
Chandler, Frank Melvin
Chapman, George Hawke
Chappel, Robert Newell
Chesnut, John Augustus
Church, Lincoln Sheridan
Clark, Marion
Clayton, William Burt
Cloud, Archibald Jeter
CA:>ckerton, Daniel Henry
Cockerton, George Albert
Coffin, Herber t

Coffin, Oliver Cromwell
Coleg:rove, John Albert
Colquhoun, Joseph Alexantler
Cooley, Milton Van Horn
Conradi, Philip
Cook, John Peter.
Cook, Peter
Cook, William Coleman
Corder, Walter Edgar
Cornell, Daniel Jefferson
Cotter, Fred Martin
Cotter, Ralph Evans
Cowan, Frank Ernest
Craft, Richard Corson
Craig, Homer Alexander
Cramer, Adolph Edward Henry
Cramer, Guido Detlef
Crane, Carlton Cyrus
Crane, George Richard
Crane, William Whitfi.elcl
Crellin, Thomas Arthur
Croeker, Horace Alvin
C'ron, William Jr.
Cross, Ralph Herbert
Urowell, Clarence Elwin
Culver, William L ee
Curdte, Carl Edward
Curtis, Earl W.
Curtis, Frederick Charles
Dalton, Frank Norris, P. M.
Dalton, Henry Norris
Dalton, Henry Philip, P. M.
Dargie, William Edward
Davies, Charles Percival
Davis, Abner Alfred
Davis, James Edward
Davis, Joseph Lloyd
Davis, Judson Milton
Dean, Beach Humphrey
Dean, William Edward
Decoto, Ezra William
Deering, Chester
DeGolia, Edwin Balclwin
Depoy, James Alstott, Jr.
Derrick, George Henry

105

106
Dewar, John Robert, P. M.
Dieckmann, John Henry
Dietz, Henry Louis
Dilling, Walter
Dixon, George
Dodge, Clarence Wythe
Dodge, Guy Edward
Dodge, Henry Arthur
Dorman, Charles Goodyear
Dornin, George William, P. M.
Drew, Edwin Pierce
DuBois, Percy Hamilton
Dunn, Leslie Budd
Eaton, Henry Jones
Eby, John Douglas
Edolf, James P.
Edson, Judson Henry
Edwards, Edward
Elfen, Harry Edward
Emerson, Mark Lewis
Engs, Otis Webb
Engvick, Clarence Edgar
Evans, Robert Griffith
Ewer, Edward Norton
Faller, Charles Henry
Palvey, John Richard
Farish, Robert Roy
Farrington, Elvin Dunn
Farwell, Oney Melvin
Fassett, Jam es Sherman
Fernhof, Frederick James
Flagg, Clarence Jasper
Flather, Robert Bruce
Fletcher, Francis Alden
Flint, George Mooar
Flood, Alfred James
Flora, Charles Aaron
Ford, Charles Wallace
.l!'orsyth, Geo~ge Thomas
Fortin, Octavius Victor
Fortin, Victor Lazarus
Fossing, John Charles
Foster, Granville Franklin
Foster, Newel Kelley
Fox, Fred Kinsman

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

France, Henry Wallace
Francis, Leon Chapman
Fraser, Loud Scott
Frederick, Clarence John
Frederick, Walter Flemming
French, Robert Ellsworth
Fritsch, Emil
Frost, William Thomas
Furniss, Herbert Olmsted
Gardiner, William
Garibaldi, William Joseph
Gauge, William Arthur
Gee, Edgar Frederick
Gelder, David
Gelder, John
George, Elias Overman
Gibbs, Alfred Kane
Gilbert, Ethan Allen
Glascock, John Ragland, P. M.
Glenn, Alexander Glenn
Glenn, John Quinn
Good, Carl Edward
Goodfellow, George Emery
Goodwin, Robert Henry
Grant, George
Grauss, Benjamin Franklin
Gray, George Adam
Gray, Harry Edwin
Gray, Harry Paul
Gray, Martin Luther
Gree!J, Harry Elmer Ellsworth
Green, Jacob Samuel
Green, William Franklin
Greene, Samuel Hartley
Greenebaum, William Bernard
Greenwell, William Matthew
Griffin, Edmund Wait
Griffith, William Edwin
Griswold, Lee Swaney
Gross, William G. C.
Gruen, John C.
Gulick, Charles Francis, P. M
Gustafsen, Crest
Hack, John Joseph
Haelke, Helwig Leopold

. •

•

0

•

Hafner, Emile Charles
Haggard, Joseph Louis
Hahn, James Dyer
Haight, Horace Howard
Hall, Charles Frederick
Hall, Edward Masser, Jr.
Hall, Ellis Gray
Hall, Hiram Tubbs
Hall, Joseph Lee
Hall, Leon Eugene
Hall, Norman Walter
Hall, Percy Weller
Hall, Samuel Pike
Hammond, Bennett W.
Hammond, F'rederick ·William ·
Hanmore, George Albright
Hansen, John
Hardenbergh, Percy Brush
Hardwick, Edward Newcomb
Harlow, William Sturtevant ·
Harris, Joseph Charles
Hart, Edward Henry, P. G. M.
Harvey, Harold Heathcote
Harvey, Norval Playfair
Haselbacher, Louis Charles
Hatfield, William Richy, P. M.
Haven, Charles Edward, P. M.
Hawbaker, Clayton Henry
Hayes, Daniel David
Hearn, Frank
Hedemark, Charles Louis
Heeseman, Charles John
Helfer, Howard Tayler
Hemler, Charles Cadmus
Henderson, Walter
Henry, James Thomas
Herrick, LeRoy Francis
Hersey, Elisha Atkins
Hersey, Frederick Howe
Hess, Philip Henry, Jr.
HEuer, Gustav Adolph R.
Hewitt, Robert Ethelbert
Hickmott, Robert
Hilbourn, Theodore Osgood
Hildebrand, George DeForest

Hill, Magnus Peter·
Hodges, Alfred Coggin
Hoffman, Martin Meno
Holladay, Sherman Edgar
Holland, Arthur Percy
Holmes, Thomas Blakeney
·Hooe, Headley Smith
Hoppen, Alfred
Horner, Andrew Long
Horton, John Rodboe
Hosmer, Abel
:H'ughes, Arthur Chester
Hume, William Robert
Hunt, Edwin Goddard
Hunt, Andrew Tanner
Hunt, Joseph Hancock
Hunt, Walter Winslow
Hurd, Frank Morgan
Hutchinson, Dwight
Hyde, Clarence
Hyde, Marcus Darius, P. M
Ingham, George Howard
Inskeep, Lorenzo Dow St'.lward
Irgens, Louis Steaven
Irwin, John Clarke
Jackson, Alton Cass
James, Charles Albert
James, David William
James, Edmond Harrison
James, Nathaniel Talbot
Jameson, Charles Henry
Jenkins, John Arthur
John, Jenkin Bevan
Johnson, Benjamin Oliver
·Johnson, Charles Henry
Johnson, Edward Clarence
Johnson, James Arthur
Johnson, Murrey Levering
Johnson, William
Jordan, Frank Chester
Jordan, John Benjamin
Joyce, Austin Ambrose
Ke.lier, Abraham
Kelly, Charles Marsh
Kendall, Frank Irving

107

108

Kerr, Archie Fullerton
Kerr, Louis Cormick
Kirkpatrick, Clyde
Kjelsberg, Karl Magnus
Klumpp, Emil Carl
Knapp, Charles Richard
Knight, Frederick Wales
Knowles, Jesse Baker
K:oford, Henning
Kohler, Henry Herman
Kurtz, William
Kuss, Peter Nicholas
Kyte, George Joseph Douglas
Lackie, George Steele
Laing, Orlando Judson
Lane, Orlando Arthur
Lang, William
Lanyon, James
LarRieu, Edmond Augustus
Laughland, John
Lawton, Howanl Mills
L 1;a ch, Abraha m Powell, P. M.
L eBaUister, Freclerick William
Leber, Albert Lewis
Leber, Heury
Lefevre, Louis Anton
Logan, Walter Etlwarcl
Loher, George Thomas
Lord, L eslie Howard
Lukens, George Rus~ell
Lund, Hans Nicolai Petersen
Lund, John
Macintire, William Nelson
Maddox, Perry Ellsworth
Madsen, Albert
Madsen, Henry Larsen
M:;i.kins, James Nicholas, Jr
Makins, J oseph Henry
Manasse, August
Manuel, Walter Griswold, P. M.
Masters, . Sawyer Haywarcl
Mathisen, Mathew Harold
Matthews, Francis Ima
Mauvais, Roy
Mccargar, J esse B.

ROSTER.
Mccarron, David
McClymonds, John. William, P . M.
McCord, Thomas
Mccready, Frederick Lee •
McDonald, Nathaniel
McG-Owan, v.· arren Emerson
McKenzie, William
McKinnon, John Robert
McKissick, Harry Hanna
McMullen, John Cornelius
McPherson, Alexan<ler Lewis
McPike, Henry Clay
Meek; Rodolph Wallace, P. M.
.Meese, Constant
Merriil, Arthur William
Merwin, Charles Wallace
Merwin, Edward Green
Metcalf, Victor Howar<l
Miller, Montgomery Kinzie
Miller, Washington J.
Mills, Joseph Bertrin
Milner, Charles H arold
Miner, James Ogclen, P. M.
Mitchell, Claudius Hamilton
Mitchell, John
Montgomery, William Ernest
Moore, Arthur Wilder
Moore, Arthur Vernett
Moore, Charles William
Moores, Eldridge Morton
Morris, William
Morrison, John
Mott, Frank Kanning, P. M
Moyer, Frank Durning
Muurmann, Peter
Naismith, George Semple
N eal, William Franklin
Neale, Charles Arthur
Nelson, Floyd Ormand
Nelson, James W €sley
.Nettleton, Corlis9 Eugene
Newman, William Arthur
Newsom, Joseph Cather
.Nicholson, Walter Ephraim
.Nielsen, Knud

ROSTER.

Al

•

•

..

Nissen, August Fred
Noack, Harry Richard
Northey, Vernal Sidney
Nottage, Frank M;elville
Ogden, Frank Burroughs, P . M.
Olds, Frank
0 'Leary, Timothy
Ormsby, Alfred Seymour
Osgood, Frederick Smith
Otto, Frederick G.
Overend, Edmund John
Owen, William Henry Searles
Page, Alva Francis
Paine, Herman
Palmer, James Irving
Palmer, Oscar Burnett
Park, John Allan, P. M.
Parker, Oscar Obediah Welsford
Parratt, Alfred Pennington
Parrish, Charles Champion
Parrish, Norman Adolph
Parrish, ·Wilfred Edwaru
Parrish, William Henry
Patrick, Andrew Robertson
Patterson, Albert Lewis Crandall
Paulson, Walfred Louis
Pease, Joseph Loran
Pedrini, Joseph Massimino
.t>elton, Lester Allen
Pendleton, Erastt1s Otis
Perigo, Oliver Elbridge
Perkins, Clement George
Perkins, Frederick King
Peters, Martin Orrin
Peterson, John Laurence
Peterson, Rasmus .
Phipps, William H enry, P . M.
Pierce, Charles Dexter
Pierce, George Seneca
Pierce, John Hiram
Piercy, Arthur Thomas
Pierson, Thomas Washington
Pirie, Jesse Franklin
Pitman, Benjamin
Pose.y, Addison' Cornelius

109

Potts, James Alexanuer
Poulsen, Albert Martin
Poulsen, Otto Alexander
Povelsen, Niels
Pratt, William Herbert, P. M
Price, Wallace Covert
Prichard, Thomas
Proctor, David Archibald
Purves, John
Rabe, John
Railton, Edward Charles James
Randolph, George Emerson
Rasmusen, William August
Ra~mussen, Hans
Reed, Elisha James
Reed, Walter I:>ickson
Reinhardt, Joseph
Rdnhart, Eugene John
RBinhart, George Washington
Reinle, George Gottlieb
Revalk, Rjchmond Emil
Reynolds, Fred Eugene
Reynolds, Guy Duncan
Reynolds, Walter Dilatush
Rhodes, Alexander Gordon
Roach, Henry Patrick
Robbins, Henry Russell
Robins, }'rederick Charles Hamilton
Robinson, Edward Constant, P. M.
Robinson, Jones McGregor
Rodda, William James
Roeth, George
Roff, Harry Loren
Rogers, Josiah Barnes
Ross, Horace Potter
Rowell, Clarence Fellows
Rowland, Frank Henry
Rowlands, Clement Phillip
Rugg, Ormel
'Rumfelt, Clarence P.
Russell, Edward Knight
Rust, Clement Parker
Rutherford, David
•Rutley, Byron
Sagehorn, George Theodore

110

Samuels, Isaac Julius
Samuels, Julius, P. M.
Saulpaugh, William Eugene
Schafer, John Herman
Schaffer, Louis
Scharz, Richard Emil
Schullerts, Frank Oscar
Schulze, Max Charles
Seaton, Horace Scott
Seese, John Siegfried
Seulberger, John Frederick
Shakespeare, James
Shannon, James Madison
Shaug, Marcus Luther
Shaw, Lucien Woolfolk
Shingle, Louis Conger
Shinnick, Charles Carroll
Shulte, Albert Franklin
Sibley, B€njamin Clarance
Slemin, Charles
Smith, Benjamin John
Smith, Edward Charles
Smith, Wager Swayne, P. M.
Snrnthen, William Bond
Snyder, Andrew Jackson
Sohst, Carl .Tohn
Somps, .T~les
Southard, William Freeman
Stanclcford, William Bert
Stark, George John William
StBrr, Robert Emmet
Stevens, John William
Stewart, John Lealanrl
Stimpson, George Washington
Stolp, Fred A ugustue
Stromgre.n, Charles Delbert
Stnnrt, Arthur Leslie
Stuart, P ercy ·Rankin
Summers, Rollin Allen
. Sutherland, Edwin
Swain, Ulinton Terry
Swauger, Arthur Bruce
Swauger, Delmar Denio
Swanger, Harry LeRel
Sw<'eney, Ocorge Warle

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Symmona, Samuel James
Taft, Archibald George
Tallman, James Rosco
Tayler, James Howard
Taylor, Felton
'faylor, Fred Butterworth
Thompson, Frank Robert, P . M.
Thurston, Eugene True, Jr.
Tillson, Fred Minot
Timerman, Edwin Campbell
Todd,, Alonzo Lewis
Todd, Francis Joseph
'l'orp.son, Charles Benton
Tower, Charles Knibloe
Townes, John Franklin
Tozer, Charles Francis
'l'rathen, Albert Harris
Trathen, Frederick William
Treadwell, Charles Graner
Trotter, John
Trow, Charles Lloyd
Troy, John Henry
Tucker, Francis Marion
'fuman, Charles Hubert
Turner, Egbert Judson
Turner, Walter
Turrell, Herbert N ewtor:
Uhl, George, Jr.
Umphred, Frank Morris
Umphred, Joseph Wilson
Vance, James, P. M.
Van Vrankin, Bradford E.
Veitch, William Thomas
Victor, Charles Harris
von Adelung, Edward
Walk<'r, George Cook
Welker, Harry Lindley
Walker, Herman Goodrich
Walker, Percival John
Walker, William Abner
Wallace, Frederick James
Warner, Elon Lafayette
Warner, Junia Josiah, P. M.
Waycott, William Bowden
W<'bber, Joseph Francis Ruggles

Webster, Albert Bradford, P. M.
Webster, Leander Rankin
Weil, Leopold Reginald
Wentworth, Franklin Judson
West, William Denison
Westover, Clinton
Wheeler, Roscoe
White, Carlos Greenleaf
White, John Gurney
White, Robert Macmillan
White, Warren Sears
White, William Jasper
White, William Thornton
White, Willard Woodard
Whyte, Malcolm Calvin
Wiedersheim, Chas. Fred Herman
Wight, Frederick Gordon, P. M.
Wiggin, Charles Maynard
Wilkins, Fred Ellis

111

Wilkinson, Edward Melville
Willeford, David Samuel
Williams, Ernest Deane
Williams, Harry Greeley
Williams, Nicholas
Williams, Thomas Arthur
Willis, Arthur D.
Wilson, Sidney Homer
Wishart, William Albert
Wixson, Robert Stanton
Wollitz, Ernest Alfred
Wood, Charles Henry
Wood, Herbert Anthony
Woodward, Francis John
Woolner, Benjamin Franklin
Wulzen, Edgar Franklin
Wythe, Stephen
Wythe, Willson Joseph
Zabel, Carl Julius
-638

DIED:
Niles, Rufus
Echlin, Charles Clare
Richards, James Callahan
Mitchell, William Andrew
Woolsey, Elliott Hartman

GEORGE WASHINGTON LODGE, No. 62.
Chinese Camp, Tuolumne County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Henry Goudge, Master,
William Terrill Lewis, S en. Deacon,
Isaac Henry Evans, S en. Wa.rden, William Henry Smith, Jun. Deacon,
Norton Woodbridge Currie, Jun. W., Williams James Settree, Marshal,
Daniel Edgar Stratton, Treasurer, George Nelson Porter, Steward,
Saul Morris, S ecretary,
Edwin Kemp, Steward,
Richard C. Penrose, Chaplain,
Roscoe Fallansbee, Tyler,

• •

Anthony, Richard David
Bluett, Samuel Thomas
Bolton, Edwin Robert
Bryson, James Lafayette

MEMBERS:
Campbell, Charles Rufus
Cochrane, Neil
Covert, William Percy
Crandall, Elbert M.

ROSTER.

112

Currie Norton Woodbridge
Elliott, Charles Arthur Nelson
Evans, Isaac Henry
Follansbee, Roscoe, P. M.
George, James
Goudge, Henry
Ungory, Henry
Urdner, Prederick William
Hooper, James
Joy, Walter Frank
Keith, Charles Peter, P. M.
Keith, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Kelly, Michael D.
KEmp, Edwin
Laramore, William Edgar
Leahy; Richard John
Lewis, William Terrill
Morris, Saul, P. M.
;Morris, Paul

Nye, Benjamin Franklin
Orcutt, Alpheus Sherman
Pascoe, Edward John
Palmer, Edgar ThomaB'
Pennce, Richaru C.
Porter, George Nelson, P. M.
Riley, James
Russell, Thomas John
Scttree, William James
Smith, !Eaac War<l, P. M .
Smith, John Alexander, P. M.
8mith, William Henry
Snowden, Paul Ward
Stratton, Daniel Edgar
Tyte, Charles Thomas
Vail, Herbert Eugene, P. M.
Ware, Erner Ferris
White, Jeffries
-44

WITHDRAWN:
Williams, Dan Edwin

NATOMA LODGE, No. 64.
Folsom, Sacramento County.

ROSTER.

113

Dunkley, Louis Palmer
Mills, Robert Trimble
Ecklon, Charles Henry, P. M
Nourse, Beverly Stephen
Ecklon, Christian Ludwig, P. M.
Parks, Leonard Nelson
Ecklon, Christian Frederick
Phoenix, Edward Chauncey
Ecklon, Lorenz Gottfried
Plumb, William Boardman
Fiel, Isaac
Powell, John Henry
Gabriel, John Henry
Prigmore, Joseph Riley
Gerber, George Philip
Rantz, William Addison
Hagadorn, Samuel Asa
Riddle, Jerry Boggs
Hally, Harry William, P. M,
Scott, John Brown
Hesser, George Turner, P. M.
Simmons, William Anthony
Hollingsworth, Lewis Washington Smith, Nels Peter
Iberson, George Thadius
Stamper, Simon, P. M.
Staunton, Frederick William
I!nhoff, George
Joerger, Joseph
Sylar, George William
Thompson, Irving
Keefe, Robert
Trentman, Henry John
King, John Henry
Wahrhaftig, Peter Samuel
Klumpp, Louis Frederick
Waites, William John
Levy, Edward Rogers
Wiley, David Elbridge
McFarland, Ray Dudley
Wubbena, Nicholas Gerrett
Mette, Henry
Yoerk, Frederick Albert
Miller, Emil
Miller, Oscar Jacob
WITHDRAWN:
Winterberg, Gustave Conrad

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Turner Hesser, Master,
George Philip Gerber, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Anthony Simmons, Senior W., Samuel Dowdin, Junior .Qe'!"con,
H. C. J. R. Clemensen, Junior War., Philip Charles Cohn, Marshal,
Edward Rogers Levy, Treasurer,
Fred'k Wm. Staunton, Steward,
Ray Dudley McFarland, Secretary, Edward Chauncey Phoenix, Steward,
George Imhoff, Tyler.
Barrett, Josiah Russell
Barton, Hiram Emmett
Bauer, Gustav Adolph
Beau, William Robert
Bell, Charels Andrew
Blair, Edwin Stone
Blanchar<l, John Ernest, P. M.
Brobst, James Lorenzo
Broder, Jacob
Broder, Jacob Jr.

MEMBERS:
Broder, Walter
Burnham, Frederick Parker, P. M.
Burnham, James Henry, P. M.
Calder, William
Cater, George Peter
Clemensen, Hans Christian · J. R.
Cohn, Philip Charles, P. M.
Daggett, Martin Van Buren
Dowdin, Samuel
Drollinger, James William

AMADOR LODGE, No. 65.

•

Jackson, Amador County.

Stated Meetings, Tuesdays of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Jay. Fremont Wilson, Master,
Frank Harmon Duden, Sen. DeacotJ,
Luke Joseph Glavinovich, Sen. W., Carl William Schacht, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. Washington Lucot, Junior W ., John Ould, Marshal,
John Henry Langhorst, Treasurer, Edwin James Trevaskis, Steward,
James Edward Dye, Secretary,
Nathan Pierson Williams, Steward,
Thomas H. Nicholas, Chaplain,
John Giusto, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bagneschi, Luigi
Bianchetti, Bartolomeo
Bole, Robert Chambers, P. M.
8

Brown, George Washington
Caminetti, Anthony
Campbell, John Dow

114

ROSTER.

Condit, James Henry
Cooledge, Walter Scott
Detert, William Ferdinand
DiVecchio, Libera tio
Dornan, George Franklin
Duden, Frank Harmon
Dye, James Edward, P. M.
Dye, James Edward Jr.
Eddy, Edward
Eudey, Alexander
Farnswortll, Eldridge Calvin
Fry, Donald Hume
Gall, Alexander Marshall, P. M.
Geirmann, Charles
Glavinovich, Luke Joseph
Giusto, John
Goldsworthy, Richard Alfred
Harrington1 Emerson Hull
Harris, James, P. M.
Harvey, William James
Hicks, Thomas
Keagle, Lorentes Nevin
Kent, Walte~ Edwin, P. M.
Kerr, Robert Ira, P. M.
Kevern, Edward
Langhorst, John Henry
Laughton, James Augustine, P. M.
Lindley, Curtis Holbrook
Mace, Fayette
Mack, Daniel
Matson, Myron Shaw, P. M.
Marcucci, Paolo
Mattly, David
McFarland, William K.
Michelotti, Carlo

Bolluomini, Giovanni

Newman, George
Newman, Leopold
Ousby, Robert
Osborne, Henry
Ould, John, P. M.
Parker, Clarence Frederick
Parker, Frederick Wardner
Parks, James Franklin
Pascoe, Richard Henry
Penry, William Milton
Peter, William DeWitt
Radovich, Nicholas
Roberts, Phillip
Rugne, Raphael
Ruhser, Frederick William
Rust, Richard Church, P. M.
Spagnoli, Diovol Benedetto, P. M.
Spagnoli, Sylvester G., P. M.
Spagnoli, Urbano G. D.
Samuels, Joseph
Stewart, Robert James
Taylor, Frank Augustus
Taylor, James Ernest
Taylor, Walter Howard
Tibbits, James Hiller
Tretheway, John
Tuson, William
Tucker, George
Trevaakis, Edwin James
Williams Nathan Pierson
Wilson, Jay Fremont
•
Witte, Albert William
Woehrle, Gottlieb
Zumbiel, Edwin V.
-i5

DIED:
Reichling, Peter

ROSTER.

115

FOREST LODGE, No. 66.
Alleghany, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
. OFFICERS:

.'

Hugh Roderick McDougal, Master, Walter Calvin Brown, Sen. Deacon,
Fred'k Augustus Locey, Senior W., Andrew Fitzgerald, Jun. Deacon,
Daniel McKenzie, Junior Warden, Henderson L. Johnson, Marshal,
Trevor T. Rowlands, Treasurer,
John Owens, Steward,
Ezra· Leroy Crafts, Secretary,
Charles Binning, Steward,
Bernard Hockelberg, Chaplain,
Henry Kinkel, Tyler. ·
MEMBERS:
Appel, Harrison
Brown, Chester Warren
Brown, Horace H.
Brown, Walter Calvin
Binning, Charles
Grafts, Ezra Leroy
·Davies, ·Frank
Deisem, Charles S.
Ellis, Thomas
Fitzgerald, Andrew
Fitzgerald, Walter
Fitzgerald, John James
Goodwin, James Willis
Hockelberg, Bernard
Irvine, Leonard, P. M.
Jenkins, Thomas Henry
Johnson, Henderson L., P. M.

Kinkle, Henry Lewis William
Locey, Frederick Augustus
Martin, George C.
McGregor, James
McDougal, Hugh Roderick, P. M.
McKenzie,. Daniel
Meiley, Manuel Augustus
Owens, John Foulk
Patteson, Thomas Adkins
· Pilond, Edward
Raymond, Daniel Hobbart
Reilly, James D.
Rowlands, Trevor T.
Voge, Henry
Wheeler, William R. Morrison
Wylie, Michael Gailoway, P. M.

-33
DIED:

Mcintosh, Charles Hugh

116

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MORNING STAR LODGE, No. 68.
Stockton. San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert Brittain Knight, Master,
Charles Ball, Senior Deacon,
Hiram F. F. Merrill, Sen. Warden, Hubert Hamilton Briggs, Junior D.,
Henry Wm. Bessac, Sr., Junior W., John Yardley, Sr., Marshal,
Fred'k Macondr.a y West, Treasurer, George Frederick Roesch, StewanJ,J
John Obadiah Derr, Secretary,
Geo. Mitchell Hardenbrook, Steward,
·
Charles Edward Howe, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Catts, George Elbert
Atwood, John Perry
Conditt, Philip Martin
Atwood, Leroy Smith
Cross, Samuel Nelson
Aubry, Alvin Emansua
Dameron, John Dysarte
Bacheller, Ralph Milford
Derr, John Obediah
Baldwin, Calvin Pryor
Ditz, George ·
Ball, Charles
Dodge, Horace Francis, P. M
Barber, Frank Wilton
Dunbar, Joshua Cottrell
Bainbridge, James Absalom
Dunlap, Frank Everett, P. M.
Baker, Clarence Clark
Duncan, Carey Ross
Barkis, Henry Bruce
Earson, John William
Barnhart, Earl Winghart
Eddy, John Henry
Bauer, Herman
. Early, Clarence Erwin
Beasley, Charles
Fitzgerald, William Wesley
Bennett, Paul Wetherly
Fiola, Frank Joseph
Berka, John
Fletcher, Williard Franklin
Bessac, Henry William Jr.
Fowler, Weldon Mason
Blake, George Shepherd
Freitas, Joseph B., P. M.
Bonney, John Allen
Fyfe, Joseph Sr.
Boyer, Thomas Alexander
Gersbacher, Joshua Barre
Brandt, Charles Henry William
Gibson, Edward
Briggs, Hubert Hamilton
Grattan, John
Brooks, Alexander William
Gross, William Walter
Brown, Philip Thomas
Grunsky, Eugene Moriz
Buckley, William Duncan
Grupe, George Washington
Butters, Edgar Warren, P. M.
Hardenbrook, George Mitchell
Buttrick, George Howe, P. M.
Hardy, Fred
Calhoun, Soltan Frederick, P. M.
Harkness, George Sumner
Campbell, Henry Riley
Hart, Charles B.
Campbell, Joseph Claybaugh
Harry, Charles Reese
Carson, Edgar Consider
Hawthorne, John Bradford
Castle, Durrett Oliver, P. M.

..

.

Hedges, Edward Richard, P. M;
Henderson, Orrin Staples, P. G. M.
Henderson, Milton Pierce
Hickman, Edward
Hickox, Flavil Gaylord
Hodgkins, Sidney Newell
Holt, Pliny Eastman
Hornage, George
Hornung, Fred William
Howe, Charles Edward
Howland, Oliver Melville
Hudson, George Francis,P. M .
Hull, Octavius Haymood
Hull, Charles Edward
Israel, Frank Sherman, P. M.
Jenkins, Edward Earl
Jordon, Freeman Young
Jory, John
Kay, Joseph
Keagle, Adelbert Grant
Kenyon, Percy
Keyes, Henry Calcutt, P. M.
Kidd, James Edward
Knight, Henry Leland
Knight, Robert Britham
Krog, Peter Christian
Lane, Frank Ellis
Lang, Lewis Hawkins
Langridge, George Washington
LaRue, John Milton
Leftler, William Henry Ebenezer
Leistner, George Washington
L1U1go, Frank
Ludlow, William Berridge
Lyon, Lemuel Elisha
Lyon, William Herbert
Matthews, David Sterrett
Matteson, William Haskell
McCan, Francis Asbury
McGaughey, James DeLaskey
McKenzie, George Alexander. P. M
McLeod, Donald
Merrill, Hiram Francis F.
Meyer, Herman Carson
Michaels, Benjamin Keefe

Miller, John Henry, P. M.
Mittick, Walter Leslie
Moore, John William
Muenter, August Edward
Muller, Frederick William
Myrick, John Edward
Nicol, Frank David
Nilson, Charles August
Noble, Arthur Morgan
Noble, Edward Banks
Neumiller, Charles Louis
Jljye, William Douglas
Oranges, Geremia
Patchen, Warren
Peart, Luke William, P. M.
Peterson, Charles John Benholdt
Petzinger, Anthony William
Philo, William Elisha
Powell, Barton Jerome
Pritchard, Vernon Perry, P. M .
Raggio, Peter
Ray, Daniel Francis
Reid, Robert Asa
Rhodes, Allen Lee
Rice, Charles Eddy
Robbins, Henry Ephraim, P. M.
Roberts, Edward
Robinson, Isaac Newton
Roe, Joseph William
Roesch, George Frederick
Rolerson, Benjamin Franklin
Russell, Richard William
Ryland, Samuel Vinton
Salbach, Leopold Frederick
Sampson, Charles Selestine
Schneider, George Louis
Seeley, John Whitney
Senter, Willis Riley
Shanks, James
Sibley, Walter Frank
Six, Clarence Logan
Smith, Walter
Smith, William James
Smythe, James Hudson
Southrey, John Nicholas

117

ROSTER.

118

Southworth, Henry Edgar
Stamper, Louis Oscar
Starkweather, Ruben Edward
Stewart, Edward Clement
Spooner, John Pitcher Jr.
Swain, Joseph Henry
Taggart, Henry Wallace
Trefry, Avery Piper
Tripp, William Osial
Tschierschky, E. M. Louis
Turner, George Clinton
Waddle, George Albert
Wagner, Solomon
Waters, William Hall
*Bessac, Henry William, Sr.
Daugherty, Henry Simon
Adams, Silas Plympton
Jones, Charles Arch

Weber, August Frederick William
West, Frederick Macondray, P. M.
Wilhoit, Roley Earley
Williams, Arthur Reese
Williams, Ansel Smith
Williams, John Robert
Wilson, Robert Finlay
Woolner, Frederick William
Woolsey, William
Wright, James Rae
Yardley, John, Sr., P. M.
Young, Albert William
Young, John Franklin
-179

ROSTER.

•

WITHDRAWN:
Kennedy, Hallie Charles
Valentine, Frank Eugene
DIED:
Jones, Stephen Keniston
Ross, Ishabod Olmstead

ENTERPRISE LODGE, No. 70.
Yuba City, Sutter County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Hugh Dixon Moncur, Master,
Frank Gus Bremer, Senior Deacon,
Will Francis Bird, Senior Warden, Roy Deboise Starr, Junior Deacon,
Fred Buzzell N oyes, Junior Warden, William Henry Chism, Marshal,'
Eug1111e Marvin Boyd, Treasurer,
Walter Lee Barrett, Steward,
Dallas Darnen Green, Secretary,
Albert Donald Gray, Steward,
William Rennie Carpenter, Chaplain, Ogilvie Moncur, Tyler.
Ashley, Lloyd C.
Ashley, Jay W., P. M.
Ashley, Luther
Bailey, Arthur
.
Bailey, George Washington
Barrett, Eugene T.
Barrett, Walter Lee
• Af!llfated during the year.

MEMBERS:
Bayne, Richard, P. M.
Benchley, William Wallace
Best, Henry
Bi'rd, Will Francis
Boyd, Eugene Marvin
Brandstatt, John Nelson
Bremer, August Gustave

•

Bremer, Frank Gus
Britton, Richard
Brockman, John Henry
Burgess, Chester Crowell
Burgett, Oliver Perry, P. M.
Campbell, Benjamin Getty
Carpenter, Robert Anderson
Carpenter, William Rennie, P. M.
Chadwick, Larkin Hopkins
Chism, William Henry
Clements, William Andrew
Clark, Howard Clifton, P. M.
Clyma, Thomas Sanford
Coats, Mack Colvin
Coats, William Alexander
Connell, Michael
Cooper, Frederick
Cope, Harry Laverne
Cope, Leroy Johnstone
Cutts, Albert David
Clark, Henry Wilmoth
Cuddeback, Edson N.
Davis, Robert
DeWitt, William Golder
Dick, Charles Gillette
Duncan, John Lewis
Ensign, Frank Milo
Featherly, Edward Washington
Ferguson, ThomatJ Henry
Fields, Charles Beccom
Fraser, Samuel
Freeman, Laverne Lewis
Galbraith, Thomas Arthur
Gilpatric, Frank Judah
Gottwals, William
Graffis, Alonzo, P. M.
Grant, Alexander Drummond Jr.
Gray, Albert Donald
Gray, James Care
Gray, Samuel
Gray, William Jackson
Green, Dallas Damon, P. M.
Griffith, Irwin
Guddal, Louis James
Hauss, Ferdinand

Haynes, James
Heiken, John Bantas
Heiken, Robert William
Hewitt, Arthur Hathaway, P. M.
Hull, Royal Chandler
Humphrey, William Emory
Harter, Clyde Banta, P. M.
Hansen, Jol:m Henry
Haynes, James Lewis
Hamlin, Francis A.
Howlett, John Marion
Hendrick, Robert Calvin
Hughes, John Tomilson
Jacks, John
Kells, Robert Cornelius
Kells, Robert Norman
Kersey, Thomas Saverree
:Kimball, George Herbert
Kimball, John Franklin
Kline, Charles Greer
Kline, Claude Cecil
Kofod, Edward Alfred
Lamme, John Hamilton
Lathrop, George Washington
Littlejohn, James
Littlejohn, James Abraham
Magruder, George Henry
Mahon, Kirby Smith
Matteson, Charles
Mccready, Edward John
McLaughlin, Alexander Campbell
McLean, Duncan James
McQuaid, Cale Clark
McQuaid, Charles Edward, P. M.
McRae, Alexander Arthur
McRoberts, William George
McVey, Thomas Fletcher
Moncur, Hugh Dixon
Moncur, Ogilvie
Moon, Richard Albert
Myers, John Henry
Noyes, Fred Buzzell
Onstott, Fred Arthur
Onstott, John Paxton ·J r., P. M.
Onstott, John Paxton, Sr.

119

ROSTER.

120

Walton, Benjamin Franklin
Onstott, Jacob Glen
Walton, Frank Starr, P. M.
Orr,.James Emanuel
Walton, Fred Day
Pease, Charles Harris
Walton, George
Pease, George Harris
Walton, Hiram Aaron
Peck, William Francis
Walton, Leonard Arthur, P. M.
Pool, Anthony Wayne
Walton, Oscar Milton
Ripley, Charles Jackson
Walton, Richard
Robinson, John Franklin
Ward, Charles Webster
Rowe, Pleasant William
:Weslar, Willard Howard
Sanborn, Miles Edward, P. M.
Wilcoxon, Baxter Allen
Schellenger, Adelbert Edmond
Wilkie, Ferdinand Starr
Schellenger, Edmond Tift
Wilkie, James B.
Schillig, Bennett
Wilkie, James Hunter
Schmidt, Erich
Wilkie, Karl Purvis
Schillig, Lawrence, P. M.
Wilbur, Lloyd Hamilton
Schuessler, Henry Herman
Williams, Clayton Elsworth, P. M.
Schuessler, Louis Edward
Williams, Robert Timothy
Schuler, Conrad
Williston, Elijah William
Sheldon, Charles Munson
Wilson, Wesley Thomas
Smith, William Parkhurst, .P. M.
Wilson, William Clay
Soderlund, Noack
Wood, Job Kettles
Starr, Edward Butler
Woodworth, Arthur Gustavus, P. M.
Starr, Roy Deboise
Woodworth, Louis Hedley, P. M.
Suggett, Luke Timothy
'
~153
Summy, Leonidas
WITHDRAWN:
Wait, Orlin
Herrold, Ebenezer Wilson

Carpenter, George Washington
Heiken, Henry Bantas

ROS'l'ER.

. '

DIED:
Hull, Theodore Benson
Saye, George Marion

BEAR MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 76.
Angel's Camp, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, WedneBday of or next preceding Full Mi,on.
OFFICERS:

Lawrence Gale Sweetland, Master, Thomas Henry R. Jones, Senior D.,
George Rose, Senior Warden,
Albert C. Wilson, Junior Deacon,
John Alfred Orr, Junior Warden, Charles Otto Engstrom, Marshal,
Warren Rose, Treasurer,
Bert Gazzolo, Steward,
Thomas Henry Davey, Steward,
John Cooley, Secretary,
Robert Hall Ross, Tyler.

'

'

MEMBERS:
Adair, Charles Francis, P. M.
Hogate, Samuel Carter
Allen, Theophilus
.
Howell, Morton Temple
Anderson, James Fitzgerald, P. M. Huberty, George
Arendt, Michael
Jensen, Rasmus Christian
Barden, Harry Roswell
Johnson, Charles Albert
Beedle, Frederick Charles
Kavanaugh, John
Bellon~ Mark John Baptist
Kuhnen, Andrew
Blackhart, Fred Gray
Lagomarsino, James
Blood, Harvey Spaulding, P. M.
Lagomarsino, John Peter
Boarman, Charles
Lane, Charles David
Bothwell, David Milton
Lane, Thomas Travis
Brevin, William Henry
Lanthier, Charles Earl
Brin, Richard Morris
Lillie, Charles Andrew
Brower, William Henry
Lockman, Francis William
Carley, John Hensley
Loring, William Joseph
Carlson, Charles Henry
Madson, Arthur Gustave
Christensen, Christen Peter
McBride, Charles Jophes
Clough, Frederick Warren, P. M.
McCurdy, Elliott Steele
Cochran, George Thomas
McLaughlin, James Henry
Cooley, John
McTarnahan, Carroll
Davis, Jefferson J.
Miller, Valentine William
Davey, William
Minard, William
Davey, Thomas Henry
Monte, Verda Lawrence
Debnam, Henry Hunt
Morgans, Philip Morgan
Demarest, David Durie
Mosgrove, William A.
Diggles, Robert Newton
Orr, John A..
Dolling, Otto
Parker, George 0.
Dorroh, John R.
Pattee, Frank Benjamin
Drew, Edwin
Paterson, George Wesley
Emery, William Wayne
Perine, Joseph Fulgenzio
Engstrom, Charles Olof
Porter, John Thomas, P. M.
Fentress, Leslee Hoke
Prothers, Albert
Freeman, Charles Henry
Quinn, Thomas Francis
Gardner, Robert
Ratz, Frederick Henry
Garrard, Woodson, P. M.
Reaves, John Edward
Gazzolo, Bertolomer
Ratcliffe, Henry
Gazzolo, Columbo James
Richards, Cyrus Wesley
Gibson, Wallace John
Riedel, Belthaser
Goodloe, Peyton Verbannus
Roberts, Samuel Augustus
Graebe, Alfred Eugene
Rose, George
Hambletan, Ira G.
Rose, vy arren
·Hancock, John
Ross, Robert Hall
Herzberg, August
Ryall, Andrew
Higgins, Charles William
Sco:fiel~, Regenald

121

ROSTER.

122
Smith, Thomas N., P. M.
Spindel, Stephen
Surrwhittard, Ernest Alfred
Sweetland, Lawrence Gale, P. M.
Thomas, George Watson
Thomas, Ellis Irvine

ROSTER.

Tucker, Richard
Wall, James Tillman
Waterman, William Louis
Weirich, Elmer Williams
Wilson, Albert Crair
-99

WITHDRAWN:
Hoppin, Thaddeus Lincoln

•

DIED:
McKay, James

CALAVERAS LODGE, No. 78.
San Andreas, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
John William Dietz, Master,
Dante A. Dasso, Senior Deacon,
Charles Preston, Senior Warden, George A. Stewart, Junior Deacon,
Louis Cademarton, Junior Warden, Frank E. Tiscornia, Marshal,
Gilbert Pfortner, Treasurer,
Nicolo J . Cavagnaro, Steward,
Enos F. Lloyd, Secretary,
George H. Hendrich, Steward,
James Keith, Chaplain,
Charles F . ·Walter, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Agostini, Jules Joseph
Edwards, David Bartlett
Anderson, Anthony, P. M.
Emery, Earle Caldwell
Bacigaluppi, John Augm.tino
Evans, Job Montgomery
Baker, John Donald
Floyd, Enos Franklin
Beal, Charles Robert, P. M.
Ford, William Mitchell
Beal, Frederick Nathaniel
Friedberger, Arnold
Borger, Christian
Gargadenic, Coronto, Geo. Joseph
Casey, Edward
Graves, George Christian, P , M.
Casey, William, P. M.
Halley, John Joseph, P. M.
Cassinelli, David
Hendrick, George Hugh
Cavagnaro, David Amile
Holland, Judson Arthur, P. M.
Cavagnaro, Nicola Joseph
Jack, James Sylvanus
Coulter, William Shinn
Jenkins, Hezekiah
Dasso, Dante Adolphus
Keith, James, P. M.
Del Re, Henry
Krentz, Ernest
Dietz, John William, P. M.
LaRiviere, Wilbrun Eugene
Domenghini, Casemere
Lewis, Samuel Joseph

123

Loeffier, Ernest Walter
Lucas, James Bennett
March, Irwin Beede
March, William Bright
Messenger, Hira m Ashley, P. M.
Messenger, Nelson Cyrus
Mitchell, William Henry
Nelson, Edmund
·
Nuland, James Andrew
Nuner, William Marble Jr.
Petray, Adolph Gottleib
Pattee, John Kellog Jr.
Pfortner, Gilbert
Ponzetti, Nicola
Preston, Charles
Raggio, John
Raggio, Joseph
Redmond, Samuel Edwin
Roberts, David E., P. M.
Roberts, Orv is
Salcido, Ernest

Salcido, Javier
Schrack, Henry Clay
Shepard, Mark A., P. M.
Snyder, Charles Peter
Snyder, Jacob Philip, P. M .
Solinsky, Frank Joseph, P. M
Stewart, George Allen
Tilden, Joseph Chester
Tiscornia, Chester Joseph
Tiscornia, Frank Elmer
Treat, William Thomas
Vogelgesang, Gustave Daniel
V ogclgesang, Frederick Roancak
Wallace, William Addison, P. M .
Walter, Charles Francis
Waters, George Christopher
Waters, John, P. M.
Wells, Frank Clinton
Wesson, Henry
Welch, William W.
Wyllie, Alfred Loring
-76
WITHDRAWN:
Pattee, Frank Benjamin
DIED:
Thorn, Abbott Goddard

HUMBOLDT LODGE, No. 79. ·
Eureka, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

OFFICERS:
•

I

Ernest A. Cockburn, Master,
Hugh Byron Stewart, Senior Deacon,
George Alfred Cochrane, S enior W ., James Thomas Fraser, Jun. Deacon,
Curtin Grant McKeehan, Junior W ., Edward Backenstose, Marshal,
Chas. Frederick Roberts, Treasurer, Alexander Rankin, Steward,
James Berry Brown, Secretary,
Frank Davis Berry, S teward,
Robert Dale Clark, Chaplain,
William D. McKay, T:)iler.

124

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Cave, Henry Alfred
Albee, George Brinton, P. M
Chain, John N.
Albee, Roswell Hitchcock
Chapman, Emery Jonathan
Andresen, Anders Olsen
Chapman, Stewart James
Andersen, Sigwald
Christie, George Maxwell
Anderson, Andrew William
Clark, Robert Dale
Anderson, Charles John
Clendenen, Francis Arthur
Anderson, Oscar
Clink, Morris
Axe, Frederick
Clyborne, W. Frank, P. M.
Backens, John Emil
Cochrane, George Alfred
Backenstose, Edward
Cockburn,
Ernest Augustus
Barnard, James Edwin
Coggeshall, Walter
Barnum, Frank Gorham
Colwell, Maynard Rufus
Barnum, Frederick Benj.
Conant, Edward
Bartlett, Samuel Pyam
Connick, Clifton Horace
Becker, Charles
Cooper, Edgar Clarence
Belcher, George Amherst
Copland, Robert
Belcher, Peter
Correll, Eugene Philipp
Bell, Aaron Hayden
Cottrell, Emile Lester
Benson, Edwin G.
Cottrell, John Austin, P. M
Berry, Frank Davis
Coyne, Franklin Boyer
Bitterlin, Walter
Craig, John Alexander
Bjornsen, Karl Selliken
Crockett, John William
Bland, Cyril Ernest
Cummings, Frank J.
Bond, Edmund
Cutler, Thomas Barnes, P. M
Bonifield, Samuel
Qntten, Charles Pryde
Bonstell, Edgar Boynton
Dickson, James
Boyd, David Adair
Dinsmore, John Stinson
Bridges, Henry James
Dinsmore, Trustom Ring, P. M.
Broadbent, Sherman
Doe, Herman S.
Brown, James Berry, P. M.
Dorais, Louis Pierre
Brown, William
Douglass, George Carlton
Bullock, Bertram Nathaniel
Douglas, Harmon Lory
Bullock, Nathaniel
Drew, Charles Augustus
Burch, Elmer Lee
Dungan, Garland Albert
Burnell, Lewis Melvin
Eddy, John Matheson
Bums, Paul Milton
Edwards, Sylvanus David
Cameron, James Bruce
Ellis, Charles Starr
Campbell, Elmore Pierce
Elsner, Charles Henry
Carlson, Charles Peter
Elater, Peter
Carson, Charles Sumner
Engebretsen, Frederick
Carson, George
Falor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Carson, John Milton
Fanning, John Angus
Carson, Thomas
Fardelius, August William
Carson, William

.'

125

Fay, Nahum
Hill, Randle
Felt, Rae, P. M.
Hiller, Benjamin Franklin
Ferguson, Chester Edward
Hine, Thomas Walton
Ferguson, Frank Ellsworth
Hitchings, Andrew, P. M.
Perguson, George M.
Hitchings, Charles Williard
Ferguson, J a'mes
Hollander, Siegfried
Forsey, Joseph Robert
Holmes, Robert
Foster, Seth Burnham
Horner, Oscar Alonzo
Fowler, Alexander
Hunter, Geo. Washington, P. G. M.
Fraser, James Thomas
Hurlbutt, Frank L.
Hutchins, Robert Walker
.1!1-ost, Elmer James
Ingalls, George Lemuel
Fulmor, Alexander Chope
Jensen, Christian Nicolaj
Fulmore, Fenwicke William
Jensen, George Charles
Gale, James Cloyd
Johnson, Johan Adolph
Gallop, John Thomas
Jones, Prentiss Mellen
Gault, James Hunter
Jones, Robert Lewis
Geer, Knyphausen, P. M.
Gemmill, Walter Scott
Kane, Alex.
Keever, Edward William
Georgeson, Frederick William
Glatt, August Edward
Kehoe, William
Keller, Charles Frederick
Graham, Henry Albert
Graham, Wesley Charles
Keller, William
Gregor, Otto Clayton
Kincade, Joseph Conrad
Griffiths, Griffith, P. M.
Kingsbury, Lewis Buoncore
Gross, Reuben
Lambert, William Lee
Gundersen, Tonnes
Lange, Ernest Adolph
Gustin, George Adinoram
Langford, George
Leach, ,Edward Alva
Hall, Charles Wellington
Hamilton, Herbert Weed
Lee, Lewis Alfred
Hamilton, John
LeVasseur, William
Hanna, William Patterson
Lever, Thompson R.
Hansel, Amos
Locke, George
Hansen, Harold Waldemar
Loewenthal, Jacob, P. M.
Harmon, Charles Treadwell
Loofbourrow, Thadeus L.
Long, Charles Addington
Haughey, Robert Lincoln
Hauptman, Sidney Morse
Madsen, Henry
Henderson, George Y oule
Malcolm, Eldridge Bowdoin
Henderson, James William
Manning, James Bennington
Ilendriksen, Bendix
Marlin, Frank
Henningsen, Carl Frederick August. Matheson, Daniel
Heney, William Lawrence
Maurer, John Lester, P. M.
Henry, John A.
·
Maxwell, Sidney Alister
McCann1 Charles Frederick
Henry, Robert
Het:fi.eld, Albert DeForrest
Mccann, Frederick Willis
McCormack, James Madison
Hill, Edward John

126
MeCullene, David
McCutcheon, Robert
McDonald, John
McGeorge, John Frederick, P. M.
McGeorge, Peter
McGeorge, Verne Adrian
McGillivray, William
McKay, Richard
McKay, William
McKay, William D.
McKeehan, Curtin Grant
McKellar, Donald
McKenzie, Peter Mcintyre
McKeown, John
McLean, Andrew Paterson
McLellan, Walter Martain
McMillan, William John
McNamara, Frederick William
McNamara, William Alex.
McNamara, William Jewett
McVicar, Jamee
Medill, Walter Pennock
Melendy, John Marvin, P. M.
Metcalf, William Milton
Mitchell, John Herbert
Monroe, Alonzo Judson, P. M.
Monroe, Joseph Warren
Morrison, Sanford Benton
Murray, Hugh
Murray, John Sutherland, P. M.
Nazro, Fr'tnk
Nelson, Lars August
Nessler, Alex. Magnus
Nielsen, Niels Peter
Noble, Hugh James
Noe, Albert Conor
Noe, Ulysses Jesse
Ohman, Adolph
Ohman, Hubert Ferdinand
Ohman, Ignatius Joseph
Ohman, Rudolph
Olsen, Hakon Erick
Olsson, Andere
Orpin, Charles
Palmtag, Christie Henry

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Parker, Silas Wiley
Parker, Thomae
Pease, Fred Washburn
Percy, Edwin Hudson, P. M.
Persons, Louie, P. M.
Petch, Thomas Daniel
Pettingill, Edwin Foster, P. M.
Petty, Josiah
Picketts, Charles Wyley
Pine, John Nelson
Pine, Norton Hiram
Pine, Safford Fay
Pinkerton, Harry Owen
· Powell, Robert Baldwin
Pratt, Walter Henry
Press, Whiting George
Price, James Howard
Rankin, Alex.
Ray, Winslow
Redmond, Jamee
Redmond, John
Reinhart, Harry
Rice, Louie
Richmond, Thomas William
Robbins, Joseph Marcus Wyght
Roberts, Albert D.
Roberts, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Robinson, Fred,.·P. M.
Roethe, George Frederick
Root, Peter
Schorr, John
Schwartz, Henry Augustus
Sedgley, Alfred Moffitt
Shurtleff, John Thomas
Sinclair, John Archibald
Sinclair, Oliver Willard
Smart, Frederick Milton
Smith, Arthur ild:., P. M.
Smith, Robert Lee
Soule, Charles Parsons
Speegle, William Nelson
Steele, Samuel James
Stein, Augustus Frederik
Stewart, Hugh Byron
Stewart, Warren May

•

I

Strong, Wallace Bixby
Strong, Wallace Kaloea
Sundquist, Axel
Sundquist, Fred
Swanson, Albert
Tabor, William Henry
Taylor, Charles Gilford
Thompson, Albert Edward
Thompson, Hiram Freeman, P. M.
Tibbetts, Joseph Kimball
Torrey, Abner Wood, P. M.
Trott, George Waehingtop.
VanHovenberg, Jamee Jacob
Ward, Walter Remus
Watenpaugh, John Wesley
Waters, Leo Clark

127

Way, Arthur William
Weatherby, Albert Skiffington
Weaver, John H. G.
W ebeter, William Henry
Weise, Joseph Jacob, P. M.
Wilson, Emmet Wakeman
Wilson, John Elmer
Wilson, Thomae W.
Wing, William
Wise, Solomon
Woodcock, Hubert Hiram
Woodcock, Samuel Alex.
Wrigley, George Edward
-Young, Robert
Zaddart, Frank Bernhard
Ziegler, Frank
--300

WITHDRAWN:
Lothrop, Luther Ramsdell
McFarland, James
Maybin, Charles Hill
Metcalf, Curtis Enoch
Perry, Bethune
Colwell, Charles E.

DIED:
Dinkelepiel, Adolph
Wiley, Austin

IONE LODGE, No. Bo.
Ione, Amador County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
I

'

John William Joses, Master,
James Henry Williams, Sen. Deacon,
Andrew Jackson Wood, Senior W., John Carlile Stewart, Junior Deacon,
John Frank Martin, !uni.or Warden,John Whitten Surface, Marshal,
John Marchant, Treasurer,
Jacob Newman, Steward,
Jacob Surface, Secretary,
Bernhard Hammer, Steward,
George Woolsey, Chaplain.,
James Phillip Surface, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adame, Abner LaFayette, P. M.
Dawson, William Naaman
Bennetts, William Arthur
Diebold, Joseph Celestine
Crabtree, Isaac Jackson
Dillian, Benjamin Franklin

128

ROSTER.

Endicott, Edwin Eugene
Farnsworth, Junius, P. M.
Ford, Hiram Wilder
Free, Franklin
Greenough, Ernest Freeman
Hammer, Bernhard
Hammer, Michaelis
Heath, John Wesley, P. M.
Hoadley, George Thompson
Holman, Ira Newfield
Jones, Morris
Jordan, James
Johnson, Carleton H.
Joses, John William, P. M.
· MacLean, John
Maestretti, Antonio
Marchant, John, P. M.
Martin, John Frank
McCloskey, William Wilson
McMurry, James William
Miner, Armstard Early
Newman, Jacob

Nixon, Lyman
Okel, Edward Joseph
Pardoe, Daniel Borden
Perkins, John Dabney, P. M.
Pease, Frank Marion
Randall, William Trafton
Ranlett, Arthur Grover
Ranlett, Horace Dodge
Ross, Benjamin George
Ruman, Charles August
Spencer, Sheldon
Surface, Jacob
. Surface, James Phillip, P. M.
Surface, John Whitten, P. M.
Swift, Charles Stedman
Williams, James Henry, P. M.
Waddell, George Edwin
Woolsey, Eugene George, P. M.
Woolsey, George
Woolsey, Herbert Alfred
Wood Andrew Jackson
Yager, George John
-50

HOSTER.
Bullock, Fre<l Willson
Cannell, John William, P. M.
Cassilis, William Watson
Claussen, Ernest Augustine
Cooper, Joseph T.
Cramer, Lewis
Curtis, Harry E.
Giguiere, Joseph
Hadley, William Charles
Hatcher, Columbus Washington
Hoppin, Charles Rossiter
Hoppin, George Henry, P. M.
Roux, Daniel Francis
Roux, George R.
Kergel, August Joseph

129

Levy, Armand Abraham
Lundy, John Alfred
Morrow, Arthur Gorman
Myers, Edward Augustus, P. M.
Nutting, Samuel Lawrence
Plantz, William Henry
Price, William Enos, P. M.
Riley, Ely Davis
Root, John Marion
Scarlett, James Edward, P. M.
Seltenheim, Herman
Tacker, Christen Martensen
Taylor, John Z.
Wall, William Samuel
-35

RISING ST AR LODGE, No. 83.
Forest Hill, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

WITHDRAWN:
Waste, Harry Lotes

YOLO LODGE, No. Br.
Yolo, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Henry Hoppin, Master,
Joseph Giguiere, Senior Deacon,
James Edward Scarlett, Senior W., Bernard Borac.h, Junior Deacon,
Charles Rossiter Hoppin, Junior W., John G. Bower, Marshal,
John William Cannell, Treasurer,
August Kergel, Steward,
Edward Augustus Myers, Secretary, William Henry Plantz, Steward,
Samuel Lawrence Nutting, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bemmerly, Albert Michael, P. M.
Bork, David Byron
Borach, Bernard
Bower, John Guthler, P. M.
Bork, Charles Henry, P. M.
Brown, John Scott

Kenneth Chisholm, Master,
George A. Lowe, Senior Deacon,
Frank Leslie Smith, Senior Warden, Frederick P. Scherer, Junior Deacon,
Jacob Lock Welker, Junior Warden, Henry Schwalenberg, Marshal,
Charles Robert Burry, Treasurer,
George H. Smith, Steward,
John Alex. Ferguson, Secretary,
Stewart 0. Foster, Steward,
Andrew Morehead, Chaplain,
William Smith, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Davies, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Allen, Frank Erskine
Dyson, George Nuttall
Akers, Charles Duvall, P. M.
Develey, Frederick Keyseur
Anderson, August
Bisbee, George Herman
Dodds, Thomas Joseph
Dolt, Alex., P. M.
Britt, Edward
Fay, George Howard
Burry, Charles Robert
Ferguson, John Alex., P. M.
Callenberg, Franncis Henry
Foster, Stewart Ormsby
Chappellet, Felix, Jr.
Garrison, George Howard
Chisholm, Kenneth, P. M.
Groves, Frank Millard
Clements, Styles Kennedy
Colburn, Frank Ellsworth, P. M.
Holt, Michael Oscar
Jones, Henry
Cowan, Gordon Robinson
Kelley, James Thomas
Cowden, Ambrose Franklin
LaRue, William Addison
Davidson, Frederick Chester
9

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

130
Limmell, Edward Michael
Lockwood, Lot Dean
Lowe, George Alex.
Manbert, Cal Ruston
Meikle, Peter R., P. M.
Morehead, Andrew
Morehead, David Orland
McAulay, George
McAulay, Gordon Malcolm
McAulay, Henry William
McAninch, John, P. M.
McKinley, Clarence Dennis
McDonald, Robert Emmet
Nesbit, Napoleon Bonaparte
Power, Harold Morgan

Power, Harold Thomas
Purinton, Frank Robert
Ray, Gilbert Florence
Reese, John William
Rennet, Charles
Roumage, Frederick ·Schmidt
Runckel, George Henry, P . M.
Schwalenberg, Henry
Scherer, Frederick Peter
Smith, Frank Leslie
Smith, Leroy Ernest
Smith, William
VucazovWich, Theodore
Welker, Jacob Lock

..
-57

DIED:
Grenell, William Henry

VESPER. LODGE, No. 84.
Red Bluff, Tehama County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Frank Lewis Doane, Master,
James Lester Hamilton, Sen. Deacon,
Perry Odell Thomas, Sen. Warden, Erle Lawrence Gans, Junior Deacon.
Arthur Lee Conrad, Junior Warden, Frank Hendricks, Marshal,
Wm. Brower Cahoone, Treasurer, Nicholas Andrew Gernon, Steward,
Wm. Preston Johnson, Secretary, Charles Blanchard Weeks, Steward,
James Henry Sharpe, Chaplain,
Samuel Lewis, Tyler.
Allen, Glenn Loring, P. M .
Andrews, Henry Parker
Archer, Charles Monroe
Ballard, Curtis Durkee
Ballard, Merrill Ora
Barham, James Louis, P. M.
Bates, Edgar John
Beck, Joseph
Belcher, William Joseph
Bonnard, Paul
Boole, Frank Arthur

MEMBERS:
Boone, Nathaniel Isaiah
Bransford, Walter Lee, P. M.
Brooks, Hyatt C.
Brown, Ancil Lycurgus
Brown, John Wesley, P. M .
Burtt, George Lucius
Bush, John Stuart
Butler, Benjamin Aaron
Cahoone, William Brower
Campbell, Charles Abijah
Campbell, Charles B .

Campbell, Remembrance Hughes
Casale, Joe Isadore
Chase, Guy Horatio
Cheatham, Marion Judson
Coffman, Pelham Howard
Cohn, Alex.
Conner, Allen Howard
Conrad, Arthur Lee
Cox, William Harvey, P. M.
Crumrine, Burritt
Crumrine, Romeyn Ezra
Curtis, Charles C.
Darrough, Charles Henry, P . M.
Davenport, John S.
Day, Jerome Wallace, P. M.
Day, Thomas George
DeHaven, David Hall
DePierris, Wesley Smith
Doane, Frank Lewis
Doane, Scott
Downer, George Curtis, P. M.
Dozier, John Newton
Eichelb!)rger, Robert Dudley
Ellison, John Francis, P. M.
Elmore, Robert Hoyle
Fahrion, Gustave W.
Fickert, William Charles
Fish, Charles Erskine
Fish, Lafayette, Jr.
Fish, William Andrew, P . M.
Foster, John Henry
Fouke, Frank Joseph
Gans, Erle Lawrence
Gans, Herbert, South
Gardner, Elias Delevan, P. M.
Godbolt, Roy Smith
Goehring, Adam
Hamilton, James Lester
Harvey, Joseph Henry
Healy, Lucius Bonaparte
Heaton, Nathaniel T .
Hendricks, Frank, P. M.
HcsRe, Charles
Hillhouse, .Tohn Clayton
Howell, Thomas Franklin

Hultquist, Peter Ernest
Jelly, Frank Lee
Johnson, William Preston. P. M.
Jones, George Thomas
King, Ernest V.
Knauss, Edward, P. M.
Lewis, Samuel
Lightfoot, Daniel Prime
Lucas, James Paris
Manning, Thomas Bernard
Marquis, James Harvey
McAmis, George Rose
McCoy, Alex. McKean
McCoy, Galen Clark
McCoy, Leo Lewis
McCullugh, David Herbert
McLaren, James
Miller, Frank Reid
Moors, Oliver Edgerton
Murphy, Sylvanus Everett
Nice, Herbert Wesley
Noble, Frederick Scott
Nollman, George, P. M.
North, Edwin Byron
Norvell, Robert Marcus
Olson, Adolph
Owen, Joseph Allen
Ransom, Frank Henry
Richart, Henry Charles, P . M.
Rogers, James Birney
Rose, John Durand
Roseland, Ole Oscar
Schoeafeld, Solomon David
Schofield, George Lewis
Schubert, Eugene Washington
Shade, Reuben Alor
Sharpe, James Henry
Smith, Charles Wilson
Spann, Walter Cromwell
St.fi.l«>y, Norman Stephens
Stice, Henry Peter, P. M.
Stivers, George Lincoln
Stivers, Henry :Fox, P. M.
Strain, William
Stoddard, William Seward

i:n

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

132

Weeks, Charles Blanchard
West, John M.
White, George Allen
Wiedemann, Louis Carl F.
Wiendieck, Herman Henry
Willard, George Kittridge
Wilson, Arthur David
Woolman, Granville
Worley, Jesse Crim
Worley, William Henry
Zimmerman, Harris Haskal -134

Swain, Cassius Perkins
Swain, Henry Clinton, P. M.
Taylor, Ulysses Grant
Thomas, Perry Odell
Tho~pson, William Spinney
Ulrey, Silas E.
Vestal, Harold
Vestal, Francis Asberry
Vestal, George Wems
Vestal, Rolla
Walbridge, Edgerton Byron

WITI;IDRA WN:
Lamb, James Herman
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Wilson, Luther Cavil
Kintgen, Henry
Gilson, Thomas Amos

DIED:
Mayhew, Horace Allen
. Swain, Theodore Slavin

NAVAL LODGE, No. 87.
Vallejo, Solano County.
f;!tate Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Henry Mitchell, Master, Charles Edward Turner, Sn. Deacon,
Glen Deane Dickey, Seni./Jr Warden, Ralph Leslie Cassady, Jun. Deacon,
John Grant Symington, !. Warden; Walter Ayling, Marshal,
William Brownlie, Treasurer,
Jack M. W. Willis, Steward,
Oliver Charles Newman; Secretary, James Gunn McPherson, Steward,
George Rounds, Chaplain,
Alvin Newton Robinson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aden, Henry Joseph
Aden, Melchart Remmers
Aden, Remmer Johan Remmers
Aitken, James Pemberton
Allen, Ernest 'Paul
Andrews, William
Armstrong, John James, P. M.
Ashwell, Charles
Ayling, Walter

Bangle, George Edgar
Basney, Oscar
Baumgartner, John Edward
Begbie, Richard
Belling, Henry
Belling, Walter
Bennetts, Thomas Henry
Bergwall, Gustaf Adolph, P. M.
Beveridge, David Forney

.

(

Bissland, Duncan Colville
Bluett, Edward
Boll, Charles John
Bond, Frederick Taylor
Bostick, John Benton
Bradley, Eclward A.
Braunagel, Henry
Brown, Nelson Wallis
Brown, Walter Scott
Brownlie, James
Brownlie, John
Brownlie, William, P. M.
Burns, Tarance Perdie
Bushnell, Charles Richard
Caldwell, l!,rancis Marion
Carman, Ambrose Sherman·
Carman, Clyde Davenport
Carter, George Valentine, P. M.
Cassady, Ralph Leslie
Chandler, Henry Walker
Christiansen, Charles Jacob
Christolos, John
Church, Robert B.
Cilley, Miner Itenry
Clark, William Henry
Cleghorn, George Arthur
Cleghorn, Robert Bryden
Clemes, Richard
Cliffol'd, Samuel Thomas
Cogswell, Frederick Ludonca
Conroy, David
Copper, Samuel Arthur
Cuthbertson, Walter Jones
Dale, Joshua Benton
Dallyn, Charles Edward
Dannenbaum, Eugene Q.
Dannenbaum, Isaac
Dannenbaum, Sam
Dannenbaum, Solomon
Dans, Charles Henry
Davis, Dand Llewellyn
Debolt, Charles
Deininger, Jacob Frederick
Dickey, Glen Deane
Drake, Frank

Droast, John Martin
Dumbrell, James William
Edgecumbe, Egbert Edwin
Edgecumbe, George Wentworth
Ehlers, Peter Ferdinand
Emms, Charles
En Young, Charles
Esborn, Homer
Fabiansen, Alex.
Farmer, Robert Wilson
Fischer, August Ernest
Gedge, William Kelly
Greenwood, James Alfred
Greig, Alex., P. M.
Groff, Frederick
Grove, Jeane Angelo
Guffy, Newton Booth
Gustavson, Ernest Alexis
Hall, Frederick Winslow, P. M.
Halliday, Henry Lincoln
Hammar, Alrick
Hancock, John Henry
Hanson, Arthur Ferdinand
Hanson, Eugene Waldron
Hanson, David Mark
Harding, John Henry
Harrier, Daniel Webster
Hartman, Alvin Andreas
Haupt, Oscar
Heath, Charles Richard
Heegler, Fred Henry
Herbert, George Arthur
Hilton, Osgood Harold
Hind, William McKenzie
iood, .John
Hood, Robert, P. M.
Huckins, Albertine, P. M.
Hunt, George Jackson
Hurt, .James Arthur
Huston, Efwood Branham
Irven, Walter L:vnch
Jacobs, Benjamin Richard
Janda, James
Johnson, Lester Archibald
John-son, Otto

133

134

ROSTER.

Johnson, Otto Julius
Jolley, Samuel Patterson
Jones, Ivor Edward
Jones, Morgan
Jones, ·,vilham Alex., P. M.
Kaarsberg, Lawrence C.H., P. M.
Kellar, Charles Philipi
Kenneson, Moody Dodge
Killam, Frank Nelson
King, Willfam Roscoe
Kinsey, Frank Joseph, P. M.
Knott, Albert Adams
Knott, Albert Thomas
Koltz, Bernard Johann
Koltz, Gustave Oscar
Kropp, John Richard
. Leach, Frank Aleman
LE>avitt, Lorenzo Bailey
Lee, Harry
Le.mard, George Darwin
Levee, Sarjah M.
Lindauer, Arthur Sigmund
Lincistrom, William
Lord, N elville Merchant
Luchsinger, John Jacob, P. M.
Lutgens, Adolpn Charles Frederick
Macdonald, Angus Edwin
Major, John James
Mdcohn, John George
Mann, Orville <trant
Marshall, Elmer Ellsworth
Martin, James Lewis
Martin, John Henry
Mathesen, M;anuel
McCatthy, Timothy Worthington
McCray, Marvin
McDaid, Alex., P. M.
McDonnell, Johr. Edmund
Mcintosh, DaviJ
2\foKenney, Charles Daniel
McKnight, Samnel .T~met•
MeLees, Edmund, P. M.
McPherson, James Gunn
McPike, Andrew Jackson, P M.
Merriman, Edward

Miller, James· William
Miller, Theodore Leon
Milman, Arthur
Mini, Damiani
Mini, John Baptist
Mitchell, Henry John
Mitchell, William Henry
Moran, Owen
·
Moore, John Lanson
Morton, George C.
Mugridge, Charles Franklin
Muiehead, Thomas
Muiehead, Thomas, Jr.
Munro, Donald, P. M.
Murray, Patrick
Nelson, James
Nelson, Martin
Newman, Oliver Charles
Norbey, Peter Oliver
Noyes, Elmer Ellsworth
Oakley, Gilbert Hewlett
O'Brien, Maurice John
O'Hara, John Henry
Olander, Herman Knut
Oliver, Thomas
Ovlen, Uno Theodore
Paterson, James
Patterson, James Hunter
Payson, Carter Noyes
Pennycook; William Dick
Peoples, Bert Raymond
Persson, Ernest John
Peterson, James Carl
Pi'ercy, James
Pippin, Arthur Michael
Plaisted, George Pomeroy
Plummer, Henry Guion
Plymire, James Adams
Pohlmann, William Henry
Powell, James Henry
Pracht, Charles August
Pratt, Daniel Arastus
Radcliffe, Peter Edward
Ramm, Peter
Rechenmacl.ler, Ferdinand

ROSTER.
Rice, Arthur Marshall
Ricnardson, Henry Douglas
Richmond, William Elliott
Rippetoe, James Jacob
Robinson, Alvin Newton
Roperto, Gaietano
Rose, August Fred. Christopher
Rossow, Ernest E'rederick
Rounds, George, P. M.
Rule, George Alex.
Rule, Richard Young
Rn'lsell, Alex.
Rutherford, John Alex.
Sanford, Farmer
Saunders, Walter GillettE>
Savage, Thomas
,Saxton, William Eugene
Schild, George Ferdinand
Sherwood, John
Small, Frederick Augustus
Sorensen, Samuel Peter
Sp1mcer, Alfred Oscar
Springborg, Petc>r Conrad
Stevens, Calvin Elkins
Stewart, Frank George
Stewart, Herbert Callaway
St;omberg, Wilhr1lm Nilcolom
Symington, John Grant
Thirion, Julius Joseph
Thornton, George

Landrum, Clarence Elmer

'fobias, Dot Orville
Tolley, George Francis
Tomke, Edward
Tregidgo, Don Alfonso
Tringberg, Charles Edward
Tripp, Don Everett
Turner, Char.Jes Edward
Vice, Thomas, Jr.
Walker, James Marion Church
W:.ll, Charles John
Warford, Charles Henry
Warford, George Hichborn
Warford, Lewis Sylvester
Warren, Charles, P. M.
Weber, Henry Louis
Welter, Dominique
Weniger, George
W estrem, John
Weir, John Campbell
Wheeler, Charles Garrv
Widenmann, Charles
Winenmann, Henry Jacob
Willis, Jack Macy Wallis
Wi1son, George Wilkins
Wilson, Joseph Everett
Winchell, Frank Theodore
Wiseman, Herbert John
Wood, John Francis
Wood, Robert
Wright, Martir. Jeremiah, P. M.
-258
WITHDRAWN:
Monroe, Joseph Willington

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Falk, Emil

Campbell, Frank Joseph
Grimes, Peter Dingle

135

DIED:
Hassler, John Charles
Shirley, Guy
Tobias, Harrison Jesse

136

ROSTER.

QUITMAN LODGE, No. 88.
North Bloomfield, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Christian Jorgenson, Master,
John Richard Jones, Senior Deacon,
Richard Dix Skidmore, S. Warden, Charles C. Gauss, Junior Deacon,
Richard Robert Jones, Jun. Warden,. Alexander Roach, Marshal,
Leon Walter Mobley, Treasurer,
Christian 0tto Jepson, Steward,
John Henry Helwig, Secretary,
Joseph H. Vizzard, Steward,
Louis Matteoda, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Berndt, ~ans
Brown, George W.
Catlett, George C.
Evens, John Owen
Glasson, Josiah
Helwig, John Henry
Jepson, Christian Hans
Jepson, Christian Otto
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Richard Robert
Jorgenson, Christian, P. M.
Landeburg, Jasper G.
Long, William David
Matteoda, Louie

Mobly, Leon Walter
M~ore, David James

M~·ers, James Perkins
Quinn, Michael
Roach, Alex.• P. M.
Redington, James, P. M.
Rossen, Rasmus Peterson, P . M .
Skidmore, Grant
Skidmore, Rush Dix
Swank, William Jefferson
Tregidgo, Alfonso Adolphus
V ezzard, Joseph H.
Waldron, Patrick S.
-27

DIED:
Stromback, Johannes

ROSE'S BAR LODGE, No. 89

ROSTER. ·

MEMBERS:
McLain, Oliver Henry
Austin, John Hiram
Nicholas, John Henry
Bach, John
Peckham, Thomas William
Beatty, John, Jr., P. M.
Perkins, Joseph Allen
Beatty, Robert
Rolles, Owen
Dickerman, Samuel Nelson
Robson, William Garfield, P. M.
Dobbins, Julian Wilcoxon
Smeeder, Louis Morris
Duggins, Alexander
Sperbeck, John Bertis
Durfee, Joseph, P. M.
Stewart, Wa.llis Jones
· Dutra, Frank Meranda
Taylor, Joseph A.
Fitzpatrick, Peter
Thomas, Lawrence Elery
Flint, John North
Hapgood, Eugene DeLorimer. P. M. Toland, William Joseph
V cstal, Hall ·
Kumle, Hubert Garfield
Vineyard, George Eugene
Lehman, William Henry
Walk, Harding Lincoln
Lewis, Harry Byron
Wheaton, Allan Givens, P. M.
Magonigal, William Boyd
Williams, Henry Gray
Manasco, Carlton Willburn, P. M.
Woehler, Otto Arived
Matson, Forrest Bruner
-37
McDaniel, George Glenn

NORTH STAR LODGE, No. 91.
Fort Jones, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Michael Slater, Master,
James Alex. Walker, Senior Deacon,
Charles Augustus Brown, S. Ward., Alexander McCaw, Junior Deacon,
Jesse Arnold, Junior Warden,
Craig Thomas Harbaugh, Marshal,
Felix Kunz, Treasurer,
Samuel Jackson Luttrell, Steward,
Martin Custer Beem, Secretary,
Elton Thompson Bailey, Steward,
Hiram Wilson, Tyler.

Smartsville, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Bach, Master,
Wm. Garfield Robson, Sen. Deacon,
Robert Beatty, Senior Warden, .
Allen Givens Wheaton; Jun. Deacon,
William Joseph Toland, !. Warden, George Vineyard, Marshal,
Eugene DeL. Hapgood, Treasurer, William Boyd Magonigal, Steward.
Hall Vestal, Secretary,
Joseph Taylor, Steward,
Thomas W. Peckham, Chaplain,
Julian Wilcoxon Dobbins, Tyler.

13i

Arnold, J ease
Beem, Andrew Addison
Beem, Marten Custer, P . M.
Bailey, Elton Thompson, P. M.
Bills, Albert Aaron
Brown, Charles Augustus
Camp, James
Crawford, John Emerson
Dangel, Joseph

MEMBERS:
Eastlick, Ederick Preston
Erno, Abram
Glendenning, Walter Elliot
Glendenning, William
Garret, Albert Morton
Garrow, Joseph Gilbert
Hamilton, Isaac
Hamilton, John
Horn, David

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

138
Harbaugh, Craig Thomas, }'. M.
Harris, Charles Elias
Henderson, Fred Sylvester, P. M.
Kunz, Felix
Luttrell, Samuel Jackson
Mathews, John Fairchild
Milliken, Albert
Maplesden, Richard Daniel
1\icCaw, Alex.
Mlays, Joseph
Oberholtzer, George Washington

Parrott, Charle·s-Booth
Rober.ts, Isaac
Sandiego, Shadra
Sell, Adam B.
ShPlley, William Denton
Short, John
Slater, Michael. P. M.
Walker, James Alexander
Walker, Robert Michell, P. M.
Wilson, Hiram
Young, John Wesley
-40

ST. HELENA LODOE, No. 93
St. Helena, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Anker Miller, Master,
Fred'k Garfield Varner, Sen. Deacon,
George Daniel Reynolds, Sen. War., Henry Anderson, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Warren Boalt, Jun. War., Benj. Franklin Kettlewell, Marshal,
John Henry Steves, Treasurer,
Walter Metzner, Steward,
Louis Grant Clark, Secretary,
Charles Moburg, Steward,
James Mitchell, Chaplain,
Franz Ludwig Beck, Tyler.

DIED:
Lindsay, Richard Scruggs
Ream, Daniel
Sublett, Freeborn Thomas

ACACIA LODGE, No. 92.
Coloma, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Albert William Norris, Master,
Alex. Bazil Leonardi, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Felix Leonardi, Sen. Ward., Ralph Lewis Colwell, Junior Deacon,
Albert Shafsky, Junior Warden.
. ................. . Marshal,
] oseph Spencer Norris, Treasurer, ] ohn McKay, Steward,
Arthur John Mahler, Secretary,
William Nathan Stearns, Steward,
Daniel Teuscher, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bassi, Giosue
Bell, Francis Marion
Blake, Christian George
Castle, Walter Augustus
Colwell, Ralph Lewis
Goldsmith, Walter Sidney
Harris, Jacob Alex.
J olmson, Alber~
Largerson, Frednick
Leach, George Clark
Leonardi, Alexander Basil
Leonardi, Charles Felix
Mahler, Arthur John

Mahler, Henry, P. M.
McKay, John
Merrill, Charles Edward
Mi€er, James
Norris, Albert William, P. M.
Norris, Joseph Spencer
O'Connell, Charles Augustus
Orelli, William
Ra,smusson, Charles Augustus
Shafsky, Albert
·
Stearns, William Nathan
Teuscher, Daniel
Thomas, Leonard, P. M.
-26

139

I

t

MEMBERS:
Adamson, Christin Pugh
Hansen, Hans
Allison, James Andrew
Hansen, William
Allison, John Hiram
Hardin, James Robert Lee
Anderson, Henry Peter
Harris, Henry Harrison
Angwin, Edwin Lawrence
Haskell, Greenleaf Adelbert
Arbogast, Jacob Lewis
Higgins, Andrew Jackson
Beck, Franz Ludwig
Hussman, Frederick Ludwig
Beck, Lawrence Lausen
Hussman, George C.
Bell, Alphonso Nelson
J ehnsky, Henry Charles
Bell, Theodore Arlington
Johnson, Leslie Ewing
Bell, William Bradford
Kettlewell, Benj. Frankin, P. M.
Bingham, William Alex.
J.,yman, Wm. Whittingham,P. M.
Br!i.dbury, William Wirt
Mackinder, Frank Bennett
Boalt, Thomas Warren
McAllister, William Francis
McMahan, Joel
Booth, Jedidiah
Meacham, Henry Martin
Bruck, Bismarck, P. M.
Caughey, James
Merk, Jacob Frederick
Clark, Louis Grant
Metzler, John Adam, P. M.
Metzner, Walter
Cla1·k, Samuel Gilman
Chinn, Harry Jessup
Miller, Anker
Mitchell, Frank Walton, P. M.
Conner, George Samuel
Mitchell, James
Co01radi, Carl Herbert
Craig, James
Moburg, Charles J.
Davis, Cornelius Elting
Newcomer, Stuart
Dawson, William James Greenley
Outwater, Nelson T.
Engelland, John Fred
Overacker, Howard, Jr.
Fried, David
Parrish, Henry Lincoln
Fos. Raymond
Pellet, Frank
Grant, George
Phillips, Joseph Wilson
Grauss, Felix Lauren
Priest, Marion Warren
Greenfield, Charles Hayden
Rammers, Henry George

ROSTER.

140

ROSTER.

RamlJendahl, August Charles
Rasmussen, Andrew
Rednall, Charles Frederick
Rennie, William
Reynolds, George Daniel
Rice, Charles Frederick
Ritchie, David R., P. M.
Robertson, Robert
Shi.kespear, David
Skoog, August
Steves, John Henry, P. M .

Spires, William
Thomas, Wade Hamilton
Tucker, Bird
Turner, William Abbott
Vann, Charles Ross
Varner, Frederick Garfield
Wagner, John A.
Wallace, Clarence Holmer
Ward, Bruce Stanley, P. M.
Weston, Frank •

Greenhalgh, William Henry
Gruves, Isaac Newton
Gunsolus, William Henry, P. M.
Hattersly, John
Healey, William Edward
Hornberger, Henry Nicholas
Hornberger, Nicholas
Huntington, Pliny Cottin
Jones, Edward
Jones, Edward Cornelius
Jones, Thomas Washington
Katz, Louis, P. M.
Lehmann, Herman
Lewis, Arthur Parker
Lithgow, John, P. M.
Lithgow, Theodore
Montgomery, Frederick Alex.
Myers, John, P. M.
Nixon, Malachi Doyle,_ P. M.
NC\rton, Charles Howard, P. M.
Norton, Virgil Winfield
Norton, William Henry
Noce, Andrew Lewis
Patterson, David Anderson
Phipps, John Anthony
Phipps, John Anthony, Jr.

-83

WITHDRAWN:
Noble, John Stuart
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Berryman, James Ernest
Ritchie, George Tolman
Walker, Horace Milton
DIED:
McGee, James

York, Eli McBride

HENRY CLAY LODGE, No. 95.
Sutter Creek, ~ador County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Anthony Phipps, Jr., Master, Charles Ed. Richards, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Henry Wonderley, Sen. ivar., Thomas Wm. Trudgen, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Ephraim Brown, Jun. War., William Henry Gunsolus, Marshal,
Charles Edwin Richards, Treasurer, Morris Brinn, Steward,
John Lithgow, Secretary,
J ohn Thomas, Steward,
Herman Lehmann, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Chu.ndler, Joseph Fountain, P. M.
Allen, George Edward
Conroy, Chester Fenell
Austin, Bert Currington
Culbert, Charles Leonard
Bastian, James Buzza
Davis, Tallyesin
Bell, William
Dennis, Jackson
Beskeen, John Edward
Bowman, Frank Austin
Downs, Water Ephraim
Fleming, Joseph
Brinn, Morris, P. M.
Frazer, Martin Luther
Burns, William Heetor, P. M.

Paterson, Charles Henry

..

141

Phipps, William Grant
Post, Elbridge James, P. M.
Post, John McDugall, P . M .
Poundstone, Lawrenz Rider
Richards, Charles Edwin, P . M.
Sandero;i, William Atwood
Sh<'w, Herbert Jesse
Smith, Webster, P. M.
Styles, George Washington
Thomas, John
Thomas, John Richard
Tregloan, John Roger
Trudgen, Thomas William
Vicini, Charles Peter
Vollmer, John
Voorheis, Edward Converse, P. M.
Voorheis, Frank Arthur
Walsh, Albert Marion
Walter, Henry Franklin
Weil, Aaron
Werner, Frederick, P. M.
White, Lawrence Antone
Williamson, George Frederick
Wonderley, William Henry
Wood, Homer Winfrey
Y elmini, Vietor Pacific
-68
DIED:
Watkins, Royal

HOWARD LODGE, No. 96.
Yreka, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Ellsworth Tubbs, Master,
Claude Erle Gillis, Senior Deacon,
Charles Hector Morrison, Sen. War., Kenneth C. Gillis, Junior Deacon,
James Gehrig Beard, Jun. Warden, Frank Church Pollard, Marshal,
William Lorenzo Hobbs, Treasurer, William Brown Rider, Steward,
Elisha De Witt, Secretary,
Irving Levi Eddy, Steward,
J ames Marcellus Powers, Tyler.

142

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:·
Autenrieth, Edward Herman
Jones, Medcalf Thomas
Autenrieth, Frederick Alex., P. M. Kuck, Jerome Deidrick
Babcock, William Lee
Larison, Charles Amos, P. M.
Barton, Henry John
Leland, William Lester
Beard, James Gehrig
Lenox, William
Beard, John Samuel
Madden, Mabra Helm
Betts, John George
Martin, Frederick
Bird, John William, P. M.
Martin, Henry Alvin
Brooks, George William, P. M.
Martin, Milton Terne;r
Coggins, Clifford
Mcilmoil, William He:r!ry
Collar, Actoniram Judson, P. M.
Morrison, Charles Hector
Collar, Floyd Judson
Orr, Oliver
Collar, Lloyd DougaJ
Owens, Richard
Coburn, Lewis Farren, P. M.
Papst, John Leland
Cooper, George Washington
Pollard, Frank Church, P. M.
Cornelius, Rowland Pryor
Reem, David, P. M.
Coyle, James Lawrence
Rider, William Brown
Davidson, James McDermit
Roberts, William He~ry
DeWitt, Elisha
Sarter, Harvey Johnson, P. M.
DeWitt, Henry Conroy, P. M.
Shearer, Robert
·
DeWitt, Robert Hewitt, P. M.
Sheldon, Luther Augustus
Earhart, Davis Carlisle
Smith, Abner Clarence
Eddy, Irving Levi
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Eddy, Newton Harvey
Smith, Clarence Stewart. P. M.
Fabricius, Andrew Jackson
Storey, James Hamlin
Fielder, John Larimer
Straw, Isaac Jefferson
Gregory, Calvin Levi, P. M.
Tapscott,' James Robert, P. M.
Guild, Len W.
Truax, Andrew Yates
Gunten, Alfred
Tubbs, Ellsworth
Hadley, Charles Edwin
Turner, Walter
Harmon, John Enoch, P. M.
Turner, William Wallace
Hart, Edwin Charles
Wadsworth, Henry
Hassler, William Richard
Walbank, Edward Monta~e, P. M.
Hobbs, William Lorenzo
Walbridge, John Morris, P. M.
Houghton, George Frederick
Walker, Benjamin Franklin
Hovey, Frank
White, James Melville
Hudson, Hamilton Harns
White, Samuel
Jones, Arthur

JEFFERSON LODGE, No. 97.
La Porte, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Willie Clarance Quigley, Master,
Oliver Francis Caya, Senior Deacon,
David W . Corbett, Senior Warden, Aaron Harris, Junior Deacon,
Cleveland H. O'Rourke, Jun. War., Daniel McKenzie, Marshal,
Gilbert May, Treasurer,
Samuel F. Grandbois, Steward,
Richard Henry Kingdon, Secretary, Charles William Hendel, Steward,
Onezime Liberty, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brunet, Leon
Lassiat, John Batiste
Bruster, Herbert
Liberty, Onezime
Buckley, John Edward
May, Gilbert, P. M.
Caya, Oliver Francis
Mcintosh, Melville
Cayot, Francis
McKenzie, Daniel
Corbett, David U., P. M.
McNaire, G!'orge Morrison
Cox, George Washington, P. M.
Motte, Joseph
Fox, James
Mussey, John Milton, P. M.
Francis, Richard Alley
O'Rouke, Cleveland Hendrieh
Prf'scott, William Herbert ·
Grandbois, Samuel Francis
Grant, William Oscar
Quigley, Willie Clarence
Greely, Archie Josiah
Richier, Dominique
Harris, Aaron
Robertson, John Hutchinson
Hendel, Charles William
Sample, James
Johnson, Andrew
Sherman, William
Squier, E"ugene, P. M.
Jones, James
Jones; Thomas William
Wendler, Frederick Herman
Kingdon, Henry
Wingate, Charles Birkmyer
Kingdon, Richard Henry
-37

HORNITOS LODGE, No. 98.
Homitos, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

-75

WITHDRAWN:
Hansen, Andy Martin

Corpe, William Dennis

DIED:
Herman, Charles Virgil
Gillis, Hudson B.

143

.

OFFICERS:

'

William Proctor Branson, Master, John Maria Souza, Senior Deacon,
Huburt Small Spahr, Sen. Warden, Charles Edward Bauer, Jun . Deacon,
Frank Nicolas Solari, Jun. Warden, William Newton McGregor, Marshal,
Joseph Julian Bauer, Treasurer,
Clarence Lamont Miller, Steward,
William Adams, Secretary,
John Samuel Guest, Steward,
Joseph Spagnoli, Tyler.

144

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Miller, Clarence Lamont
Adams, William, P. M.
Appling, John Beauregard
Mora, John Henry
Avis, William Burkett
McGregor, William Newton
Ong, Jackson Washington
Bauer, Charles Edward
Pearce, .John
Bauer, Joseph Julian
Reeb, George
Branson, Joseph
Branson, William Proctor, P. M.
Spagnoli, Joseph
Spahr, Huber Small
Brown, Sallluel Lester
Bunker, Charles Emmons
Solari, Frank Nicholas
Souza, John Maria
Cornett, John Robert
Stanley, Harwell Barum
Gornert, John
Grade, WilEam Adolph
Thorn, Joseph Franklin
Gribble, James Thomas
Thorn, George McKendra
Guest, John Samuel
Tippett, Samuel
Henricks, Albert, P. M.
Trabucco, John Babtista
Washington. Patrick
Henricks, Samuel .
King, William Booth
Weber, George Edward

ROSTER.

-34

DIED :
Hur.ter, William Wilkins

LA GRANGE LODGE, No. 99 .
Merced, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
George Oscar Kinney, Master,
Oscar Marion Oliver, Senior De11co11.
Hubert Heitman, Senior Warden,
Clyde Benton Czerney, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Edward Landram, Jun. War., James Leonard, Marshal,
Carter Landram, Treasurer,
John Richard Graham, Steward,
Edward Rowe Jom~s, Secretary,
William Ivy Saunders, Steward,
Aaron Badt, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bradley, Fred
Abbott, George William
Brantley, Samuel King
Baker, John William
Bruce; Alexander
Baker, Oscar Alexander, P M.
Burchell, Milton Cook
Baxter, James Robert
Carpenter, Ramus Ambers
Bearwald, Henry
Corwin, Andrew Chandler
Badt, Aaron
Croop, William Bigler
Barfield, George Hardwick
Cunningham, Emmet Turner, P. M.
Bird, Isaac
Bloss, George Stone
Cunningham, James
Cunningham, James Charles
Blumenthal, Bernard

Czerney, Clyde Benton
Czerney, John, P. M.
Darby, James Frank
Deaner, John Allen
Farr, George Daniel
Fraser, Alexander Simon
Fruit, Jefferson
Gervasio, Jacintho Rogrigues
Givens, Thomas Thaift
Goldberg, William Louis
Goldman, Monie
Gracey, Robert, P. M.
Graham, John Richard
Gray, John Alexander
Gun, Alfred Richard
Hall, Thomas Albert
Hammatt, Robert William
Hardwick, William Jefferson
Harrell, Charles Benton
Harris, Alfred
Harris, Charles
Harris, Morris Louis
Harris, Ruben
Hayward, Alvin Eugene
Heitman, Frederick William
Heitman, Hubert
Horsley, William Henry
Howard, Amos Edward
Hughes, James Boaz
Huls, Herbert Kimball
Hunt, William Horton
Hurd, Jarvis
Jacobs, Isaac Henry
Jones, Edward Rowe
Jones, George Clhilton
Jones, Joseph Simpson
Kenney, George Oscar
Knox, James Walter
Landram, Carter, P. M.
Lander, Jr.mes Thomas

Lardram, William Edward
Law, Thomas Chalmers
Leonard, James, P. M.
Massengale, Rir.hard Eugene
Means, William Leland, P. M.
Moutray, Asa Edward
McKain, Edward James, P. M.
McPherson, Hiram Archibald
0 'Brien, Edward Stephen, P. M.
Oliver, "Oscar Marion
Ordway, Francis Mobdy
Painter, Eugene Deshong
Parkinson, Robert John
Pedreira, Antonio Freitas, P. M.
Ralston, Clark
Robinson, Charles Augustus
Roes, Henry Ohristopher.
Rogers, James Rowe
Saunders, William Ivy
Scofield, A. Hamon
Seely, Ralph Yorton
Shaffer, Charles R.
Shaffer, Harold Stanley
Silman, Archibald Lewis
Simon, Charles
Simon, James
Smith, Arthur Montell
Stoddard, Ebenezer Maxwell
Terrill, Overton Harrison
Tetzlaff, Frank
Turner, William Henry
Vincent, Marion W.
Warfield, Chas. Alex. Hamilton
Webb, James Miles
Wilson, Nathaniel Hoag
Wright, Charles Herbert
Yoakum, George Washingto11.
Yokum, Frederick William, P. M.
Zirker, Adolph Jacob

WITHDRAWN:
Elliott, John G.
DIED:
Cleek, Robert Riley
10

145

-99

146

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gowling, Phillip
Peters, Metcalf Lorenzo
McDonald, Horatio
Schell, Perry Benjamin
Whitten, Fred W.
- Oates, Lewis Daniel

CLAY LODGE, · No. IOI.
Dutch Flat, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

DIED:
Buckman, Thomas M.

OFFICERS:

Solon McKean Curtis, Master,
William W. Price, Senior Deacon,
Geo. Rudolph Faller, Sen. Warden, Charles E. Barber, Junior Deacon,
Sydney Walton Nicholls, Jun. War., John Henry LaKamp, Marshal,
John Beamer, Treasurer,
Alexander Edwin Erskine, Steward_.
John Nicholls, S ecretary,
Frederick W. Hepner, Steward,
Benjamin James Griffiths, Tyler.

Iverson, James
Jefferson, Matthew

MANZANITA LODGE, ·No. Io2.
t

North San Juan, Nevada County.

I

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MEMBERS:
Barker, Charles Oscar
Beamer, John
Berry, John Murray
Brice, Joseph Albert
Buckman, Benjamin Sims
Clendening, John
Cook, William
Curtis, Solon McKP.an, P. M.
Diner, Henry
Drynan, Alexander
Duncan, David
Erskine, Alexand<1r Edwin
Faller, George jl.qdolph
Frentel, Henry
Gi1l'ord, Robert
Grilli ths, Benje.min Jam es
Halsey, Henry Heyer
Holmes, Willia.m John
Huysink, Bern:ud Henry
Jacobs, LorePzo
J osink, Berni>.rd Henry ·
Ketc'hi;im, Frank
Knapp, James Beebe, P. M .
LaKamp, Frank
LaKamp, John Henry, ·p. M.
Lamphrey, Frank
Lane, William Willi~
Lear, William Henry

Linder, Robert Edward
Lohman, Peter
Mackay, John Gordan
Maker, George Samuel
McCormack, Malcolm
McKenzie, B.e njamin Bliss, P. M.
Nelson, Charles Robert, P. M
Nicholls, John
Nicholls, Sydney Walton
Nichols, Thomas Jefferson
Noyes, Henry Leonard
Noyes, Mark Fish
Powers, Edgar Bowe, P. M.
Price, William W.
Rathbun, Frank Larue
Rickenback, John Wilson
Robie, Ira Allen
Rose, David
Ross, Howe
Rupert, Delos Moore
Schmidt, George Wilhelm
Schow, Hans Johnson
Sherriff, Henry
Thomas, Ephraim Marriner, P M.
Thomas, John
Towle, Arthur Warren
Towle, George Gould
-55

147

OFFICERS:

George Morgan Harris, Master,
Raymond E. Standinger, Sen. War.,
John Trood, Junior Warden,
John German, Treasurer,
Patrick Henry Butler, Secretary,

••

Bank, Frederick William
Bigelow, Ashley Smith
Bristow, William
Buhring, Harry Herman
Butler, Patrick Henry
Chisholm, James
Cull, Henry
Cunard, James Henry
Curnow, Phillip.
Dunning, William
Gilbert, Josiah Stephen
Godfrey, Fred
Godfrey, James
Harris, George Morgan, P. M
Harris; Thomas
Jones, William Arthur

MEMBERS:
Lancaster, Charles Edwai;-d, P. M.
Lane, John
McBride, John Storer, P. M.
McCullough, Robert James
Milier, Charles Howard
Morris, James Doherty
Paine, Charles Sanford, P. M.
Philbrick, Fred Everett
Quick, John
Standinger, Raymond Ed.
Thomas, Richard
Trood, John, P. M.
Trood, William
Westerfield, Wi'.liam Jackson
Wood, Frank Merton
-31
WITHDRAWN:

••

Dilling, John

•

Coffey, George Thomas
DIED:
Phillips, Reuben

HS

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

OROVILLE LODGE, No. 103.
Oroville, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, last Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Herbert James Graham, Master,
Robert Butler, Senior Deacon,
John Joseph Hamlyn, Sen. Warden, Geo. Woodland Madeley, Jun. Dea.,
William Cramer Swezy, Jun. Ward., Roger Sylvester Kitrick, Marshal,
John Carleton Gray, Treasurer,
John Delbert Lantz, Steward,
Joseph Marks, Secretary,
Reginald Clemence, Steward,
Daniel Hilton, Chaplain,
George ·washington Dyer, Tyler.
•

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Lemuel Herbert
Fairchild, Howard
Atchison, Thomas Andrew
Felton, George
Gale, John.
Atkin, James Henry
Atkins, Frank
Gardner, Charles Watter
Bell, Henry Clay
George, Frank Elwin
Bennett, George Wilbur
Gingles, William Wilson
Grace, James Wilmer, P. M.
Blockley, Edward
Grace, Robert Patrick
Blood, Charles Ai
Graham, George James
Blood, Delos Moody
Blood, Richard Pierson
Graham, Herbert James
Boynton, Albert Eugene, P. M.
Gray, Carleton, P. M.
Gray, James Chadwick
Boalt, Eben
Boalt, Gilbert Denison
Gray, John Carleton, P. M.
Green, Louis Lincoln
Brooks, Frank.
Green, Robert Moore
Bullington, Perry Franklin
Grier, William John
Burton, David l<irastus
Hamlyn, John Joseph
Christie, Robert Miner
Helms, Houston
Cleaveland, Judson A.
Herrin, William James
Clemence, Reginald
Cleveland, N ewto'n
Hill, William
.Hills, Darwin Oscar
Cline, Charles Stephenson
Hilton, Daniel, P. M.
Cline, Clarence Charles
Cook, William Henry
Hilton, William Montague
Crossley, William Lybrand
Hogan, James Harvey
Horton, Theron White
Crow, Claud Grant
Howard, Winfield Lee
Dixon, William Hubert, P. M.
Huber, James
Dole, Alfred Rowell
Hudson, William Bell
Dunn, Charles Dennis, P. M.
Dyer; George Washington
Huffart, Charles Alexander
Jac.oby, Harry, P. M.
Dyer, George Sterling
Fairchild, Ernest Day ·
James, Francis Evan

I

149

James, Thomas Ward
Reardan, Thomas Birkhead
Johnson, August
Riehl, Albert Sigel
Johnson, Jotn Charles
Rippey, George Washington
J 011es, Albert Foster
Sangster, Joseph Edwin
Keifer, William Hammon
Saville, Richard
Kelly, Thomas Joseph
Sennett, Joseph Benton, P. M.
Kimball, Edwin Boyce
Serviss, Thomas Wilson
Kitrick, Roger Sylvester, P. M.
Shirran, Francis Leslie
Lantz, John Delbert, Jr.
Simon, Samuel Samuel, P. M.
Smith, Herbert Warrell
Lawton, Scott
Smullen, Harry Leslie
Lee, Thomas Corydon
Soares, John St&.nislaus
Lil!dsay, Edward Edison
Sprague, Frederick Adams
Long, Jacob Michael
Stapleton, Robert George
Maack, Frederick William
Stedman, Francis Marion
Macfarlane, Donald, P. M.
Steele, Harry Oskar
Madeley, George W oodl,and
Stickney, David
Marks, Jos.,ph
Swczy, William Cramer
Marks, Leon Heilbron
Telford, George
Matthews, George Henry
Tople, Prince Louis
Mansfield, Isaac LeRoy
Travers, Walter bates
McConnoughy, Charles Wi.lliam
Turner, Fred Moreland
McCoy, Benjamin Lincoln
Tucker, Ira Lester
McGuffin, James Abraham
Turner, Wallace Ralph
McKenzie, Colin Randolph
Upham, Isaac, P. M.
Mengler, Henry Andreas
Vail, Henry Eugene
Merrill, Austin Page
Van Deinse, Francis Christiall
Meyers, John Franklin
Wakeham, Ed.
Mitche,l, Edward James
Wakeham, Luther
Moncure, Ashby
Waterhouse, John Francis
Morse, Anthony Wayne
Weaver, Frank Walter
Moulin, Ferdinand Victor
White, James Abanatha
Mullen, James Joseph
Whiting, Eugene Carlisle
Murphy, Albert Leslie
Williams, James Madison
Nelson, J. Elmer
Wilson, John West
Newbold, Edwin Henry
W oodm&.n, Charles David
Park, James Milne, P. M.
-135
Patterson, Willis Howard
WITHDRAWN:
Ham, Richard Kimball
Burroughs, Charles
*Joseph, Louis
DeLong, David Magee
Guidery, John
Leonard, John Pierce
• Restored during the year.

DIED:
Maack, Marcus Christian
Reede, Thomas White
Ward, William

150

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

LEXING':fON LODGE, No.

151

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dodson, Elbert Jones
Donaluson, Daniel C.

104.

El Monte, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ARCATA LODGE, No.

OFFICERS:

Harry ]. Woods, Master,
Joseph C. T~urman, Senior DeacoiJ,
William S. Sawyer, Senior Warden, Thomas H. Lambert, Junior Deacon
Wm. Rowland Hudson, Jim. Ward., Jonas E. Killian, Marshal,
J ohn W. Bartqn, Treasurer,
Ephriam J. Shirpsher, Steward,
Charles Soward, Secretary,
Julius W. Hudson, Steward,
Alfred C. Drake, Chaplain,
Willis Severe, Tyler.
Baker, Isaac Funk, P. M.
Barton, CheRter Renislar
Barton, John Watterman
Bell, Thomas
Cave, Frederick P.
Cleminson, James
Cleminson, James D.
Cross, George 0.
Davis, William C.
,DeGarmo, Rollie Frank
Dietzel, John David
Dodson, Claybourn B.
Dodson, William Long
Drake, Alfred C., P. M.
Elliott, Alexander
Ellington, Harry A.
Farmer, Louis
Gardiner, Robert
Greeg, Frank Albert
Hardin, Dearwood B.
Hayes, Thomas Francis, P. M
Houston, John
Hudson, William R.o wland
Irwin, Robert J.
Irwin, William
Kallmeyer, Pau1
Kauffman, Isaa~.
Kauffman, Milton

MEMBERS:
Killian, Jonas B.
Killian, Jonas Scott
Killian, Joseph B.
Killian, Waldo
Lambert, Thomas H.
Langstadter, Is3ac
McCaige, George Dyer
McCoy, John
McLeod, John David, P. M.
Parish, Elkanah C.
Pearson, William Robert, P. M.
Piuma, Guiatono
Quinn, Richard, P. M.
Reed, Elgar
Renfro, G. B.
Ritter, David Irwin, P. M.
Rowland, David P.
Sarpington, Francis P.
Sawy€r, William Shephard
Severe, Willis
Soward, Charles
Stange, Fred
Stanton, Francis Hardin
Thurman, Joseph Coy
Whitaker, Harry E.
Wiggins, ThomaM
Woods, Harry J.

WITHDRAWN:
*Hoffman, Frank T.
•Degrees conferred during the year.

-55

I

I

7 ".

106.

Arcata, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

• •

• •

•

f

Oetje H. G. Marken, Master,
George Wm. Averell, Senior Deacon,
Julius John Krohn, Senior Warden, George Wilson Harpst, Jun. Deacon,
Jeremiah Ralph Brown, Jun. Ward., Melvin Parker Roberts, Marshal,
Noah H. Falk, Treasurer,
Daniel Walter McGowan, Steward,
Thomas R. Emerson, Secretary,
Philip Mathews, Steward,
William Nixon, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Falk, Noah H.
Falor, Frank Eugene
Fountain, Mathew Francis
Fry, Hume Lamond, P. M.
Garrett, William Xenophon
Gillis, Cecil Edgar
Gillis, Walter Henry
Graeter, Luther Dnury
Hansen, Charles Emil
Hansen, Peter Andreas
Harpst, Charles Isaiah, P. M.
Harpst, George
·
Harpst, George Wilson
Harpster, Irvine Levi, P. M.
Hawton, Robert
Heckman, William Henry Harrison
Horel, Francis R.
Houda, Antone Joseph
Houda, Bohemia! Antonin
Houda, John Paul
Jackson, Harry Woodville
Johansen, Nelson Baker
Johnson, Joseph
Kallstrom, Charles August
Kirby, William Henry
Korbel, Joseph Frank, Jr.

Anderson, James Peter
Aurand, Franklin Clation
Averell, George William
Baldwin, Hubert Alexander
Barber, Herbert Anson
Barnes, Alfred
Bell, Philetus
Blythe, William Lucian
Bohmansson, Robert Hugo
Brown, Jeremiah Ralph
Bull, John Clark
Bull, Ralph Waldo
Burchard, George Horatio, P. M.
Christie, Alexander
Cooper, Arthur Fenmore
Cullberg, Isaac
Culiberg, Isaac, Jr.
Deming, Byron Briggs
Drewry, Charles Henry
Duprey, Alfred Isadore
Emerson, Thomas Henry
Emerson, Thomas Ruthven
Ericson, August William
Everding, Louis Charles
Falk, Charles Eugene
Falk, Elijah

152

ROSTER,

Krohn, Julius John
Larsen, Abraham
Mandahl, Carl Gustav
Marken, Oetje Herman G., P. M.
Marvin, George D.
Mathews, Philip
McGowan, Daniel Walter
McMillan, Rowland
Menefee, Joseph Senevy
Menefee, Peter Mason
Monkman, John Francis
Moore, Henry
Moore, James McDonald
Moore, William Gregory
Morrell, Frank Edward
Myers, Sylvester
Nelson, Aaron Frederick
N esman, Andrew
Nixon, Charles Henry
Nixo:µ, William
Noe, Jesse Lafayette
Ogelvey, William Henry
Patenaude, Amos Octave
Patenaude, Emanuel
Perigot, Gustave
Preuss, Theodore Reinhold

Roberts, Melvin Parker, P. M.
Ross, James
Scott, George Murdock
Seaver, Allen
Seidell, Arthur, P. M.
Simpson, Henry
Smith, Frank Adams
Spring, Obadiah Hill
Stearns, George Addison
Stern, Bernard Frank
Stern, Charles Frank
Stewart, Adam Hugh
Stone, Wesley Whipple, P. M.
Sudbrook, Albert
Teal, George Franklin
Theerman, Henry Harm
Tooby, Frank Hart
Truesdall, Clifford Ambrose
Vaissade, Benjamin
Wallace, David Douglas
Wiley, Rease Martin
Wilson, James
Wood, William Mead
Zaruba, Vaclar
Zehender, George
-103

ROSTER.

Cowan, William Virgil
Garretson, Job
Jacobs, Elisha, P. M.
Martin, Joseph Washington
Milne, George Anthony
Morgan, Wesley Eugene

PAJARO LODGE, No. no.

• •

OFFICERS:

OWEN LODGE, No. rn8.

•

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Watsonville, Santa Cruz County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

Henry Conrad Weisenburger, Mas., Henry Ernest Cox, Senior Deacon,
Stephen Samuel Jarrett, Sen. Ward., Thomas Marion Wright, Jun. Deacon,
Frederick Wm. Willett, Jun. Ward., William Henry Benteen, Marshal,
Charles A. Palmtag, Treasurer,
Frederick Herman Nohrden, Steward,
John H. McEwen, Secretary,
Manfred Schwab, Steward,
Elsworth Lincoln Rich, Chaplain,
John Allen Howard, Tyler.

DIED:
Bull, John Clark, Jr.

Charles Herman Simon, Master,
\Vm. Virgil Cowan, Senior Deacon,
Ernest A. Zoellin, Senior Warden, Joseph Wash. Martin, Junior Deacon,
George A. Milne, Junior Warden, Job Garretson, Marshal,
Arthur Simon, Treasurer,
Hiram Dual Shearer, Steward,
Elisha Jacobs, Secretary,
Henry Chartel Tickner, Steward,
William John Steele, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Shearer, Hiram Dual
Simon, Arthur, P. M.
Simon, Charles Herm,an, P. M.
Steele, William John
Tickner, Henry Chartel
Zoellin, Ernest August, P. M. -12

DIED:
Ledue, Joseph Barnaby

T

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Davies, Jasper Newton
Kenny, Walter Montie

Scott's Bar, Siskiyou County.

153

.

'

MEMBERS:
Aldrich, David Metcalf
Cleveland, Charles
Cleveland, George Clifton
Alexander, Jewel
Alexander, Louis Sol
Coffman, Stephen William
Andrews, Perry Morton
Cooper, William Burton
Austin, Frederick Sans
· Cox, Arnold William
Cox, Henry Ernest
Baker, Cary Hanna
Cox, John Francis, P. M.
Beebe, Charles Emmell
Bellamy, Benson Clark, P. l'tt.
Cox, Robert Benjamin
Delmere, Alexander
Benteen; William Henry, P. M.
Bixby, William Aaron
Dengler, Philip
Brassell, Hans Peter
Dixie, Richard
Dresser, Arthur Thomas, P. M.
Brewington, George Francis
Brewington, George Hamilton
Easterday, George Speltine
Faunt, Le Roy Joseph
Briggs, Charles Oscar
Fisher, Ferdinand Oscar
Briggs, Elmer Ellsworth
Burland, Edward Grant
Foltz, John B.
Foltz, Wm. Sheridan
Burland, Robert
Gardner, Jonathan Edward, P. M.
Burland, William Henry
Hammel, William Henry
Campbell, Robert Edgar
Chalmers, William Alexander
Harford, Lyman
Harris, John Franklin
Cheesebrough, Charles Edwin
Harvey, Edward Everett
Clark, Edgar Lewis

154

ROSTER. •

Hays, William Clarence
Rodgers, Henry Bro"l'.Vder
Hedgepeth, Matto Marshall
Rodgers, Spencer Clay
Hollingsberry, Frank George
Rogers, Robert Ayton
Schwab, Manfred .
Hopkins, James .
Seity, George
Hudson, Mary Antony
Shaver, Eugene C.
Holsten, William A.
Hushbeck; Andrew
Shearin, Daniel Thomas
Howard, John Allen
Short, Jacob Martin
Howard, Moses B.
Sill, George Wellington, P. M
Ish, Harry Edmund
Silliman, Charles Oscar
Jarrett, Joseph Samuel
Silliman, George Francis
Jarrett, Stephen Samuel
Silliman, Walter Trafton
Judd, Hugh William ·
Storm, Peter
Sterling, Alexander
Kilburn, Carl Mearle
Swearengen, ~rank Corday
Kilburn, Frederick Augustus
Kitchen, Henry Burton
Townsend, Palmer Gardner
Trafton, George Arthur
King, James Isaac
Trafton, John Edmund
Lennard, Frederick John _
Trafton, Thomas Eugene
Maher, David Francis
Trafton, William Arthur
Mauk, Edward Henry
Mauk, Franklin Edwin, P. M.
Trafton, Howard Valentine
Martin, George Pardee
Trueworthy, Edward
Mayback, Samuel Philip
Tuttle, Iowa Harley, P . M.
McEwen, John Herbert
Uren, Joseph R., P. M.
McGowan, William John
Vaughan, George
McLean, Donald Lewellen
Waters, James, P. M .
Mendelson, Isaac
Watters, Peter Kemp
Webb, William John
Miller, Guy
Morey, John Jacob
Weedon, Robert Fletcher
Morgan, George Duignid
Weeks, William Henry
Nance, Benjamin Franklin
Weisenberger, Henry Conrad
Nohrden, Edward Henry
West, Danforth
Nohrden, Frederick Henry
West, Henry E.
Palmtag, Charles A.
White, Charles John
Pearson, Thomas Cook
White, William Anson
Peckham, Harry Augnstus
Willett, Frederick William
Phillips, Frank W.
Wright, Thomas Marion
Porter, Warren Reynolds
Wyckoff, Edward Francis, P. M.
Rich, Ellsworth Lincoln
Wyckoff, Herbert Cope
Rodgers, Charles H.
Zimmerman, Edward H•mry
Rodgers, Frank
-125
WITHDRAWN:
Sawyer, Reuben Herbert
DIED:
Rouse, Parker Sandy

ROSTER.

CHICO LODGE, No.

155
III.

Chico, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
'

I

.'

'

.

.

'

Frederick Jacob Nottelmann, Master, Joseph Rankin Young, Sen. Deacon,
Samuel Kansas Troxel, Sen. Ward., John Wm. M. Kennedy, Jun. Deacon;
Charles Henry Camper, Jun. War., Jefferson Davis March, Marshal,
John Rose Robinson, Treasurer,
Charles Edward Cummings, Steward,
August Leonard Neubarth, Sect'y., William Harper Nunn, Steward,
Henry Hallet, Chaplain,
Harmon McCargar, Tyler.
MEMB.E RS:
Adams, Isaac Benjamin
Crowder, Clifford Lee
Alexander, Charles B.
Cunningham, Charles Arnold
Andrews, Charles Abram
Cus~ick, Barney
Applegate, William James
Cussick, John
Axtell, Samuel Thomas
Cummings, Charles Edward
Barnard, Timothy Henry, P. M.
Daly, John Cardiff, P. M.
Batchelder, Hiram Treat
Dean, William Benjamin
Bicknell, Thomas, P. M.
Degnan, George William
Bohlender, Thomas L.
Dillon, Thomas Franklin
Boucher, Josiah, Jr.
Downing, Harry Rufus
Bradley, William Leroy
Dugger, James Madis:m, P. M.
Durham, Robert Willington
Brown, William Reed
D 'Egilbert, William Alfred
Broyles, Adam Courtney
Entler, Joseph Franklin
Bryan, Elden Ebert
Burroughs, Harry DeForest
Evans, Joseph Mabery
Faulkner, Louis Glass, P. M.
Campbell, Joseph Hanes
Florence, Edwaril Walter
Camper, Charles Henry
Garner, L eon Mason
Canfield, Eugene Erastus
Garnier, Thomas Ralph
Carney, George Washington
Cecil, George Francis
Gluckman, Arthur Walter
Chandler, Walter Leroy
Guill, Lee Bryan
Chambers, James
Guynn, Pleasant Marion
Clark, Oliver Lovell
Guynn, William Rose
Clifford, Charles Alfred
Hallet, Henry
Clough, Francis Albert
Harden, Jesse H.
Harris, Charles
Collins, William Alexander
Haughton, Joseph Richardson
Costar, William James, P. M
Harvey, John Wesley
Cooney, George Elma
Hegan, Jaroes
Crabb, James N elson
Henshaw, Park
Crail, Luke Dillard
Hillard, Marion
Crew, William Henry

156
Hendricks, Thomas Perry
Isham, Edwin
Johnson, Theodore
Jones, Ralph Taylor
Jones, Samuel
Kern, Ralph
Kerr, Archibald Thompson, P M.
Kerr, William Thomas
Kennedy, John William Mackay
Kennedy, William Freeman
Lane, Frederick Walter
Lausen, Henry Datlef
Leininger, Clarence Wilt
Lingo, Arthur
Linn, William Burney
Lothrop, Matthew Hale
Lovett, William Dottimore
Lowell, George A.
Macdonald, Angus Campbell
March, Charles Alexander
March, Harry Davis
.March, James Frankli~
March, Jefferson Davis, P. M
Martien, Joseph Gilbert
Martin, James
Marvin, William Montgomery
McAnarlin, William
Mccargar, Harmon, P. M.
McGrath, Harry Hill
Mcintosh, George Lewis
Mcintosh, Lewis Harrison
Means, Samuel Boyd
Messinger, John Gardner
Messinger, Reuben Henry
Meybem, Emil, P. M.
Miller, George, P. M.
Miller, George Ogden
Miller, William Henry, P. M
Mitchell, James Ewing
Moir, H::•rry Saunders
Montgomery, James W. Bradford
Montgomery, Robert James
Moody, Stephen Prescott_
Morgue, August William
Morton, Austin Earl

ROSTER.
Morse, George Payson
Murray, Christopher
Nelson, Henry
Neubarth, August Leonard
Newton, Oran
Nichols, Harry Evans
Nottelmann, Frederick Jacob
Nunn, William Harper, P. M
Nugent, Harry George
Peake, William Humphrey
Petersen, Geo, Fred. Christian
Phillips, Leon William
Phillips, Richard, P. M.
Picton, Thomas George
Polk, Thomas H. Benton
Polk, William Downs
Pond, Edward B., P. M.
Ralston, Robert Bruce
Reynolds, Ed. 'fillotson, P. M.
Reynolds, Sherman Allyn
Richardson, Harry Eugene
Robbie, William, P. M.
Uobinson, John Ho&~
Rogers, Thomas Nel~on
Roper, John Wesley
Roohr, Francis Louis
Sauber, Edwin Stanton
Sawyers, Frank Edward
Schmidt, G-1lorge
Schooler, William Henry
Shaw, B!lker Ewing
Shilling, John Stephen
Shirley, Lemuel Crittenden
Spencer, Thomas Cass
Stansbury, Oscar
Sutcliffe, Emmott Walton
Taylor, Gilbert Hart
Thatcher, Frank Marion
Thomas, Jesse G.
Thomas, William, P. M.
Thrower, John Oscar
Thrower, JoReph Bennett
Tripp, . Charles Ammi
Troxel, Kansas Buchanan
Troxel, Samuel Kansas

ROSTER.
Vadney, Edward Comilla
Vadney, George Edward
Van Horn, John Garrett
Warren, Edward Archer
Waterland, John Sanford·
Watts, Harry Adelbert
Weaver, Herman Bowman
Weston, Jubal

157

Wetherbee, Ira Alston
White, Harry Darius
Wilbourn, Thomas J.
Will, William Emerson
Williams, Charli>s Grover
Williams, James Herman
Yoi.mg, James
Young, Joseph Rankin

-168

WITHDRAWN:
Crabb, Homer Elmer
..

Hurlburt, Randolph
Robinson, George Foster

I

Durham, William Willington
*Evans, Aaron

DIED:
Hoyl, Jonas Marion
Peters, Pincus
Smith, Levi

EXPELLED:
Goeritz, Robert Emil

SUMMIT LODGE, No.

112.

Knight's Ferry, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

••

•

OFFICERS:
Thomas Harvey Prowse, Master,
Chas. Thos. Kennedy, Senior Deacon,
John Franklin Tulloch, Sen. Ward., Philip Gable, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Godfrey Bach, Junior Warden, Charles Thomas Tulloch, Marshal,
Osman C. Drew:, Treasurer,
George Washington Watson, Steward,
· Praben Niel Tulloch, Secretary,
Eady Edward Cole, Steward,
William Francis Bach, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bach, William Francis
Collins, Herbert
Bach, William Godfrey '
Crabtree, Mark Trafton
Beck, John
Drew, Osman C.
Bentley, Jefferson Daniel
Edwards, David Franklin, P. M.
Boone, Tobias Belt
Gabel, Philip
Campbell, William Edward, P M.
Gatzman, Alfred
Carmichael, Daniel Whitfield
Gookin, Albert Millard, P. M.
Cole, Eady Edward
Griffin, Francis Leonidas, P. M.
•Affiliated during the year.

ROSTER.

158
Griffin, William, P. M.
Hocker, .ToPeph ·Lee, P . M.
Kennedy, Charles Thomas, P. M.
La~ence, Edgar Bolton, P. M.
Logan, William David, P. M.
Lowe, Eugene Heber
McCabe, George Thomas, P . M.
Morgan, Frank Albert
Nichols, Elmer Lincoln

ROSTER.

Ostrom, Gilbert Abram
Prowse, 'l'homaR Harvey, P. M. ·
Smith, Martin James Joseph
Tulloch, Charles Thomas, P. M.
Tulloch, David Whitelaw
Tulloch, John Franklin
Tulloch, Praben Neilson
Valpey, Samuel George
Watson, George Washington -34-

EDEN LODGE, No. 113.
-t

I

San Leandro, Alameda Colmty.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Allen Eli Pelton, Master,
Wm Floyd Cunningham, Sen. Dea.,
George J oseph Helms, Sen. Warden, Sydney Briggs Force, Junior Deacon,
Albert Laurits Hansen, Jun. Ward., George Harvey Ohea, Marshal,
Oscar Jackson Lynch, Treasurer,
Horace Greeley Black, Steward,
Carles Wildy McLaughlin, Secretary, John Driver, Steward,
John Edmund Anderson, C:haplain, Herman Fred'k Wm. Helms, Tyler.
Anderson, John Edmund
Ballard, Eugene Cogswell
Barbeiro, Jos Enos
Best, Clarence Leo
Black, Horace Greeley
Boberg, Joseph Andrew
Bradley, James Walter
Bradshaw, Ira Ham, P. M.
Bulen, Mark Bledsoe
Cary, Amzi B., P. M.
Cary, Harry Ellis
Cary, Talcutt Petekin
Clark, William Amie, P. M.
Coleman, Charles La Grange
Coleman, George La Grange
Crabb, Allie Louis
Crabtree,.Fred
Cunha, Joseph Oliver
Cfunningham, William Floyd
Downie, George

M.£MBERS:
Driver, John
Dyer, Edmund Marcellus
Fassett, Charle& Edgar
Fisher, Ferdinand 0.
Fleming, George
Force, Sydney Briggs
Frank, John Nepsomick
Fulton, William, P. M.
Gates, Dawson Dave
Gray, Newton
Green, Daniel Edward
Hamilton, John
.
Hansen, AJJ>ert Laurits
Hansen, Jens Christian
Hansen, Robert
Hansen, Sophus A. E.
Helms, George Joseph
Helms, Herman Fred. W., P. M.
Helms, Walter Theodore
Heuricksen, Henry ·

Henricksen, N eils
Hill, Otis
Hite, William Edward
Hoerst, Edward
Hoffman, Eugene
Holmgren, John Alexander
Hopper, John F. Ernest, P. M.
Hurlbut, Charles Benjamin
Jackson, David
Jeffers, Samuel
Johnson, George
Gorgensen, .John Christian
Kern, Jacob Fred
Kirinan, Herman Warren
Leland, Frank Milton
Lenox, David Hudson
Logan, George William
Lynch, Oscar Jackson
Lynch, William Francis, P. M.
Marlin, Brady Washington
Marlin, Henry Bowers
Martin, Henry Whitney
Matson, Martin Bauder
Matson, William
McArdle, Lucian D.
McDannell, Benjamin Franklin
McLaughlin, Charles Wildy
Mendell, Edmund Dall
Mendell, ,John Martin
Black, John
Bull, Thomas· B.

Montgomery., William Stewart
Morin, Hercules Andre, P. M.
Odgers, Frederick Thomas
Odgers, Thomas
Offersen, Niels
_Ohea, George Harvey, P. M.
Olsen, Henry Christian
Page, Robert Stapleton
Palmer, Charles Edgar
Pelton, Allen Eli
Pimentel, Franrisco
Reid, Alexander Baer
Reid, John
. Rowles, William John
Sawyer, Thomas Edward
Schleuter1 Edwin Charles
Singleton, John
Smith, James Dale
Smith, Kirby Barnitz, P. M.
Stenzil, Fritz
Stone, Egbert Barker
Sturtevant, Noah Thomas, P - M.
Toffelmier, Douglas Ulyssis
Treadwell, James
Walkins, Edmund Anderson, P. M.
Wemmer, William Leonard
Wilkie, James B.
Young; James Harry
Young, William Henry, P. M.-98

WITHDRAWN:
Chaplin, David Henry
Henricksen, James
DIED: .

•

I

Fulton, Walter Edwin
Huested, Willtam Meese
Gray, Benjamin Dinsmore
Kelly, Will.iam
Hawes, Benjamin Cowell
Page, Rufus Billings
Roberts, Andrew Gore

,.

159

______

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

160

MOUNT ZION LODGE, No.

114.

Grizzly Flat, El Dorado County.
Stated Meetings,. Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Gabriel Werntz, Master,
\Thomas A. Murray, Senior Deacon,
George Kincaid, Senior Warden,
Thomas Patrick Juckes, Jun. Deacon,
Robert K. Claibourne, Jun. Warden, George W. Mauk, Marshal,
Martin Baele, Treasvrer,
Ernest Jake Hoxsie, Steward,
William C. Cole, Secretary,
Thomas Teesdale, Steward,
William Henry Cole, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baele, Martin
Mauk, George Washington
Beckett, Franklin Samuel, P. M.
McCommas, Francis Marion
Claibourne, Robert King, P. M.
Murray, Thomas Aloyious
Cole, George Thomas
Pearson, William Rose
Cole, William Henry
Peters, Clarence Edward
Fuller, John Henry, P. M.
Routledge, William Henry
Hoxsie, Ernest Jake
Scheiber, Louis John
Juckes, Thomas P.
Scott, Elmer Livenstone
Kincaid, George Harvey
Teesdale, Thomas
Laine, Samuel Augustus
Werntz, Gabriel, P. M.

Cole, William Christian

-20

DIED:
Wheeler, Mose Chandler

CONCORD LODGE, No. II7.
Sacramento, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frederick Albert Pearl, Master,
William Wesley Harris, Sen .• Deacon,
George J. Harris, Senior Warden, . Alfred Mcintire Braddock, Jun. Dea.,
William Don Beech, Junior Warden, James Francis Lyon, Marshal, ·
Geo. Wm. H. Lichthardt, Treasurer, George Frederick Shepperd, Steward,
William Henry Hevener, Secretary, Horace Arlando Farris, Steward,
Albert Elgin Robinson, Tyler.
Appleton, William Henry
Beaton, Carl William, P. M.
Beech, William Don
Bishop, Arthur Tucker

MEMBERS:
Book, Franklin Weaver
Bowsher, Amos Luther
Braddock, Alfred Mcintire
Brendel, John Philip

••

Byrne, William James
Carroll, Edgar Barclay, P. M.
Carroll, John Francis
Caswell, William Averill
Chapman, John Maurice, P. M.
Chatfield, Thomas F.
Coppersmith, Michael Thos., P. M.
Dru.ge, Otto Daniel
Dunbar, Alexaniler
Duncan, Cornelius
Farris, Horace Orland
Fischer, Henry
Fox, Thomas, P. M.
Frieseke, William Frederick
Gerrish, ·samuel Howard, P. M.
Gerrish, Edward Laidley
Gillinwaters, Grant Franklin
Gilmore, Robert McCallen
Godwin, Th'.>mas
Green, Charles Frederick
Gregory, Eugene Julius, P. M;
Guthrie, John William
Harrell, Albert Marshal
Harris, George J.
Harris, William Wesley
Harvey, Gregory Luca"
Heilbron, Henry August, P. M.
Hesson, Thomas Joseph, P. M.
Hevener, William Charles
Hevener, William Henry, P. M.
Holzinger, Herman
Hunt, Frederick Chesbrow
Irvine, William John
James, James· Merrill
Jones, William
Jones, William Rowland, P. M.
Jordan, Luther Campbell
Korn, Seymour
Lang, Joseph
Lichthardt, George Henry P.
Lichthardt, George W. Henry
Longton, Henry
Lyon, Clarence Frothingham
Lyon, James Francis, P. M.
Matthias, Louis Wm., P. M.
11

161

McAllister, Welford Clarence
McFarlane, Arthur Alpjne
McKibbin, George
McLaughlin, William P. M.
Menke, Anton
Menke, John
Moll, Philip Harry
Morten, John L.
Nevis, Manuel Silva
Nuttall, Levi, P. M.
0 'Brien, Alfred Woodbury
Oldfield, Wm. Baggaley, P. M.
Pearl, Frederick Albert
Platt, Philemon Eli
Pope, Samuel, Jr.
Poska, Samuel
Props, Joel Lee
Reynolds, George Henry
Robinson, Albert Elgin, P. M.
Saemann, Carl
Sanderson, Marion
Schaefer, Peter
Shepherd, George Frederick
Schindler, Louis Cyrus, P. M.
Schocke, Charles August, P. M.
Schroth, John George
Schumacher, George Max
Schumacher, Oscar Henry
Senf, Henry
Senf, Henry Andrew
ShepparJ, Frederick Augustus
Simmonds, William Shape!
Simonsen, Carl
Smith, Alexander Miller
Smith, Eli Mitchel
Vicary, George Salser
Wahrhaftig, Moses Solomon
Walsh, William
Watkins, Richard, P. M.
Watkins, Richard Malcolm
Whitelaw, John, P. M.
Wissemann, George
Wylie, John Wellington, P. M.
Young, William Henry

-97

~OSTER.

ROSTER.

162

FIDELITY LODGE, No. 120.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gorth, Michael
Fairchild, Charles Herbert

Herzog, Philip

San Francisco, San Francisco County.

DIED:
Johnson, Albert DeMontfredy

'

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFF:OERS:

CLINTON LODGE, No. IIg.

.

lgo, Shasta County.

'

Stated Mtcting3, Saturday of or next preceding Full MoJl!.
OFFICERS:

Robert Jones, Master,
Tames W. George, Senior Deacon,
Thomas M. Gilbert, Senior Warden, Carl George Voss, Junior Deacon,
Edward Dennis Jones, Jun. Warden, Albert Nelson Kingsbury, Marshal,
Alexander Leiter, Treasurer,
John P. Kingsbury, Steward,
Chas. Nelson :Kingsbury, Secretary, Edward L. Ballou, Steward,
Charles W . George, Tyler.
0

MEMBERS:
Jones, Thadius Alonzo, Sr., P. M.
Kingsbury, Albert Nelson, P. M.
Kingsbury, Charles Barnes
Kingsbury, Charles Nelson, P. M.
Kingsbury, John Parker
Lagerson, Frederick William
Leiter, Alexan,der, Jr., P. M.
Leiter, Alexander, Sr., P. M.
Lewis, James Knox Polk, P. M.
McGinnis, Stanton
Montgomery, James Logan
Moon, James Luman
Nealy, Clarence
Polk, William Thomas GiDis
Richter, Charles Herman
Voss, Carl .George
Woodfill, Charlea Dillon

Ballou, Edward Lull, P. M.
Barlow, Lewis Forest
Berg, Robert
Boyd, Charles
Drynan, Angus James
Eldridge, Millard Filmore
George, Charles Grant
George, Charles Whittington
George, James Whittington, P. M.
Gilbert, Thomas Martin
Gill, James William
Goodall, William, P. M .
Hart, Thoma.a Henry
Higgins, Henry Everett
Higgins, Jerome Blanchard
Jones, Edward Dennis
Jones, Robert
Jones, Thadius Alonzo, Jr.

163

-35

•

Joseph David Abrams, Master,
Edwin A. Wasserman, Senior Deacon,
Roy Block, Senior Warden,
Harry Elias Heineman, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Albrecht Radius, Jun. Ward., Victor Aaron, Marshal,
Max Goldman, Treasurer,
Henry Levy, Steward;
Frederick Barry, Secretary,
Abraham J acobs, Steward,
Mitchel Joseph ¥yers, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aaron, Leopold
Behm, Emanuel
Aaron, Victor
Behrendt, Richard
Bender, Noah Wilhelm
Abraham, Henry
Abraham, Max
Berg, Sigmund Fred
Bernard, Samuel Taylor
Abraham, Samuel
Bernstein, Samuel
Abrams, Augustus David
Bernstein, Sylvan Louis
Abrams, Henry Moses
Bienenfeld, Bernard
Abrams, Joseph David
Bier, CharleR Sigmund
Adler, Albert Stanley
Bier, Hypolite
Albro, John Philo, P. M .
Bier, Joseph Edward
Alexande:r, Michael Sanford
Blaskower, Marke
Allan, ClarPnce Elton
· Blo<'-h, Abraham J.saac
Allenberg, Charles
Block, Harry
Anina, Juan
Bloch, Henry Maier
Arm€r, Andrew Milton, P. M.
Bloch, Louil,
Armer, Benjamin, P. M.
.Block, Roy
Armer, Joseph Louis, P. ~·
Armuth, Alfred Samuel
Bloom, Joshua Harry
Aronson, Sol
Bluhlli, George Irving
Arzner, Louis A.
Blumenthal, Leo
Bachman, Arthur
Borkheim, Abraham
Bachman, Lawrence
Bornstein, Morris Sella
Baer, Leopold, P. M.
Bouquet, Joseph Anton
Ballin, Maurice
Bowers, William Emette
Barnett, Abraham Thomas, P. M.
Brandt, Maurice
Barry, Frederick
Brenner, Gustave, P. M .
Baruch, Frederick
Breyer, J 'oseph Leopold
Brod, Amiel Henry
Bauer, Moses
Brooks, Max
Bauer, Samuel
Brown, Abraham Lincoln
Baumann, Sigmund
Brown, Bernard Charles
Beck, John ' Alex.

164
Bnwn, Isidor. Irwing
Brown, Morris
Brown, Nathan
Brownstein, Julius
Bugbee, Maxwell Greene
Burns, Thomas Patrick
Cahen, Adolf
Cahn, Julius I.
Ceeil, John
Christmas, Frank A.
ClaRsen, Adolph F. A.
Clayburgh, Moses
Clingman, George Evans, P. M.
Coblentz, Julius
Coburn, MaTtin Van Buren
.Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Adolph
Cohn, Gabriel
Cohn, Gerson
Cohn, Robert David
Cohn, Theodore, P. M.
Colson, Edward Augustus
Colton, Louis Arthur
Cooper, Leopold
Daglow, Leopold
Damm, Richard Oscar
Dannenbaum, Arthur Joseph
Dannenbaum, Samuel
·Dannenbaum, Sidney Ray
Davidson, Isidor Peter
Davis, Alex. Harold
Davis, Moses
Davis, Phillip, P. M.
Davis, Sylvan Dubie
Day, Robert, P. M.
Dinkelspiel, Joseph Samuel
Dinkelspiel, Samuel, P. M.
Ehrman, Alexis Leon
Einstein, Daniel
Eisenbach, Julian
Eisenberg, Ignacz N.
Eisenstein, Charles
Eisner, Milton Sidney, P. M.
Elberg, Abraham
Elberg, Isadore

ROSTER.
Elberg, Solomon
Elkus, Albert Israel
Ellis, George Wentworth
Ellis, James Michael, P. M.
Ellis, Milton Hyman
Emanuel, Joseph Lewis
Emmerling, John
Englander, Henry Max
Eppinger, Jacob
Eppinger, Josua
Erlanger, Simon
Fabian, Frank William
Falk, Camil Sanson
F.alkenstein, Monroe Henry
Feldenheimer, Alex.
Fenster, Isidore
Fe~herstont.augh, Frank C.
Fish.er, Oscar
Flamm, Gustav
Flatow, Philip
Fleischman, Herman F.
Fleischman, Mathias Reuben
Fletcher, David Maas
Florintine, George Julius
Fogel, Emanuel
Fogel, George
Foley, Frederick William
Frank, Ludwig
Frank, Manuel b. Houston
Frank, Morris Emanuel
Frankel, Bernard Emll
Frankenberg, Joseph
Franklin, Max
Freidenrich, David
Freidlander, Louis
Friedman, Max
Friedman, Moses
Friedmann, Lazar
Friedmann, Samuel
Frohman, Henry
Fulda, Edward
Gabriel, Julius
Galland, Barney Bean
Galland, Edward Ralph
Gamblitz, Lee Robert

ROSTER.

•

..

Gerson, Isaac
Getleson, Harry
Getz, Jules Jacob
Getz, Louis
Goldberg, Adolph
Goldberg, Harry Montefiore
Goldman, Isaac Wolf
Goldman, Max, P. M.
Goldsmith, Edmund M.
Goodfriend, Isidore
. Goodman, Edward Abraham
Goodman, Isadore
Goodman, Leo Lester
Gottlob, Joseph
Gradwohl, David
Greenebaum, Joseph Leon
Gruhn, Joseph Messing
Guggenhime, David Joseph
Gutte, Isidore
Hammond, Samuel Chester
Harris, Adolph
Harris, Neal
Hart, Martin Ed ward
Haub, Charles Conrad
Hausman, Louis
Heineman, Harry Elias
Heineman, Irving Scott
Heller, Emanuel Siegfried
Rerrschcr, Joseph
Heyman, G11stave
Heyman, Julius
Heyman, Oacar
Hildebrandt, Wiliiam Charles
Hirsch, Barnard • Jonas
Hofmann, Jacob Gustav
Hoffman, Lawrence Harold
Hoffman, Melville Gustave
Hoffman, William Joseph
Honigsberger, Leon
Hufschmidt, Louis
Hummel, Mathew George
Hyman, Abe
Hyman, Charles Shepard
Ickelheimer, Samuel
Isaacs, Joshua Davis

Jacobi, Joseph Maier
Jacobovies, Philipp, P. M.
Jacobs, Abraham
Jacobs, Alfred B.
Jacobs, Charles Sodark
Jacobs, Hyme
Jacobs, Isidor
Jacobs, Lester Henry
Jacobs, Theodore Henry
Jaeger, Frederick Charles
Jellinek, Emil Otto
Joseph, Joseph
Juda, L eon
Juda, Morris
Juda, Simon Felix
Kahn, Aaron
Kahn, Frederick
Kahn, Samuel Sigmund
Kahn, Sol
Kammerer, George
Katten, Simon
Katz, Bert
Keiner, Herman
Kierski, Samud
Klinger, William Mark
Koehncke, Christian Henry
Koenig, F.1rdinand
Kohlbcrg, Eugene Lincoln
Kohlberg, Manfred Selig
Kohn, Charles
Korn, Albert
Korn, Eugene
Krobitzsch, Rudolph William
Lachman, Adolph Joseph
Lachman, Albert
Lachman, Henry
Lafee, Marcus
Lansburgh, Simon Lazarus
Lapidaire, Harry
Latz, Benjamin
Lederer, H~rman
Lehouse, Louis Gustave
Leibold, Jacob George, P. M.
Leszynsky, Leon
Levin, Isidor

165

166
Levison, Charles Gabriel
Levy, Charles
Levy, EugP.'le Walter
Levy, Henry
LeTy, Henry
Levy, Herbert
Levy, Isaac
Levy, Isaac Kaufman
Levy, Isidore Nathan, P. M.
Levy, .Jack Morris
Levy, Lambert
Levy, Louis
Levy, Meyer Solomon
Levy, Michael
Levy, Moses Louis
Le~ y, Morris Harris
Levy, Philip
Lewald, E\Jgen Charles
Lewis, Emanuel
Lewis, William
Lezinsky, Ferdinand
Liederman, Benjamin
Li}Jman, Joseph
Lipman, Louis
Loeb, Charles Gerson
Loeb, Solomon
Loewe, Joseph Ma1irice
Loewenstein, Maarice Frank
I,oewy, Edmund
Louisson, EtlwaTd Baum
Lowenstdn, Bernard
Lowenstein, Samuel
Mack, Simon
Macy, William Harden
Manheim, Gutsave Adolph
Manheim, Henry Simon, P. M.
Manheim, Pauld Bernard
Mann, Brimo Max
Marcus, Louis Ferdinand
Mnks, Mannheim
Marks, Samuel Morris
Marks, William
Matson, Charels Peter
Mauser, Henry
Mayer, Henry

.ROSTER.

HOSTER.
Mayer, Max
Mayer, Morris
Mayer, Oscar Joseph
Mayer, Solomon Julius
McCray, Charles Carroll
McDevitt, Daniel
Mcisaacs, Donald Cushing
Mendelsohn, Morris P.
Merzbach, Felix Herman
Metzger, Charles
Meyer, Harry
Meyer, Pl)rcy Jasper
Mierson, James
Miller, Isaac
Miller, James Arthur
Moise, Philip Henry
Morgenstern, Louis Adolph
Morris, Theodore
Munter, Leo
Musso, John
Myers, George Henry
Myers, Isador Barnard
Myers, Leland Sanford
Myers, Louis
Myers, Mitchell Joseph
Myers, Robert
Naphtalv, Joseph
Nathan, llerman
Neustadter, Louis William
Neustadter, Newton Henry
Newhouse, William Daniel
Nieto, Jacob, P. M.
Ottenheimer, Henry Joseph
Ottenheimer Martin Carrie
Ottenheimer, Sigmund William
Pauson, Charles Arthur'
Pauson, Jacob William
Pirxotto, Edgar Davis
Platshek, Julius, P. M.
Plant, Charles
Pollitz, Edvrarcl ·
Priester, Joseph
Raas, Andre
Radius, Walter Albrecht
Raphehl, Maurice Lehman

)

I

•

I

'

.

.

'

Redlick, Abraham Lincoln
Rieh, Alfre<l Jo8eph
Richards, Theodore
Roberts, Andrew Wellington
Robinson, Louis Allen
Robitscher, Earl Moses .
Rosenbaum, Albert Sidney
Rosenbaum, Samuel Moses
Rosenberg, Melville
Rosenberg, Melville Benjamin
Rosenblum, Samuel
Rosener, Charles Sa.muel
Rosenshi"le, Matthias
Rosenthal, Joseph
Rosenthal, Marcus
Roth, Maximilian
Rothschild, Charles
Rothschild, Herbert Lionel
Rothschild, Johll.
Sachs, Lippmp.n
Sahlein, Mose·s
Salfield, David
Samter, Marks
Samter, Samuel Marks
Savannah, Michael
Schirmer, Frederick August F
Schlessinger, Charles, P. M.
Schmidt, Maurice
Sehmulian, Alfred
Schnaittacher, Sylvain
Schneider, Morris Nathan
Schoenfeld, David Michel
Schoenfeld, Jacob
Schoenfeld, Leo
Schussler, Henry
Schutz, Jacob Julius
Schwabacher, Louis Abraham
Schwarzchild, Julius
Schweitzer, Morris
Seeligsohn, Selig Max
Selig, Philip
Shainwald, Chat>lf•'I Louis
Sideman, Morris Jacob
Siegel, Julius
Silverberg, Joseph S.

167

Silverman, .foseph
Silverman, Moritz
Silverstone, Emanuel
Silverstone, Sholom
Simon, Charles .Jacob
Simon, Martin Ephraim
Simon, Siegfried
Smith, Joseph
Soboslay, Julius
Solomon, Abraham
Solomons, Lucius Lawrence, P. M.
Speier, Gode~
Spiegl, Louis Martin
Spitz, Jacob
Stark, Edward Joseph
Stearns, Henry Otis
Steiner, Albert
Steinman, Adolph John
Stenge, Harry
Stein, Henry
Stettheimer, Walter Walter
Stil'ewalt, Henry Walter
Stone, Benjamin Lester, P. M.
Stone, Leon Daniel
Stone, Marcus L.
Strassburger~ Isaac, P. M.
Straus, Louis
S~.1auss, Moses
Streeten, James Morgan
Su!lskind, Sylvan H.
Sussman, Henry
Swift, Dean Richmond
Tadich, Ivan Vincent
Thorner, Theodore
Tommereg, Anders Emil
Trachman, Henry Jacques
Triest, Frank
Triest, Martin
Ulman, Victor Rfohmond
Unna, Harry
'Voorsanger, Abraham Wolf
Voorsanger, Jacob, P. M.
Voorsanger, Leon Morris
.Voorsanger, Solomon
Voorsanger, William Casper

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

168
Wallenstein, Herman Moses
Walsh, Richard
Walter, Sanford Frederick
Wascewitz, Morris Herman, P. M.
Wasseman, Edwin Adams
W1Jterman, Louis Philip
Wedel, John Michel
Weil, Adolph Bert
Weil, Leo
W einshenk, Charles
Weinstein, Morris
Weissbein, .:Yacob
Weissbein, Joseph
Wertheimer, Aubrey Robert

Weyl, Bernardo
Wheeler, Charles Stutson
Wigmore, James
Willard, Maurice
Winter, John Frederick
Wise, Julius .
Wise, Otto Irving
Wise, Wallace Alex., P. M.
Wolf, Jacob William
Wolf, Julius Levy
Wr.lf, Morris Peter
Wolff, William
Zellerbaeh, Jacob Charles
Zuckerman, Adolph

I

I

4

I

-450

WITHDRAWN:
Cramer, Charles Wesley
Johnson, Harry Lee
Friedman, Abraham Lincoln
Kullman, Herbert
Rummelsburg, Charles
DIED:
Dinkelspiel, Emile
Israel, Julius Maurice
Jacobs, Julius
Page, Hamilton
Nathan, Charles

Newman, Joseph
Siminoff, Morris
Strauss, Samuel
Westheimer, John F.
Wollner, Jacob

Abrott, John
Anderson, Eugene Blythe
Anderson, Robert Lawrence
Andreason, Rasmussen
Baldwin, Nathan Ira
Bartola, D. John
Biggs, Walter Hicks, P. M.
Booth, Cecil James, P. M.
Booth, Robert Frederick
Burpee, Windfield Scott
Chaboya, Benjamin
·Clark, Albert Eldon
Close, Clarence William
Compton, Peter Wood
Daley, Charles E.
Daley, James E.
Daley, James Marion, P. M.
Edwards, John
Gamble, Samuel
Gamba, Ferdinand
Goold, Charles Gardner
Hall, Myron Ward, P. M.
Hall, Ward
Harison, Ralph
Harland, Joel A.
Hook, James S.
Hook, Vincent
Hough, William Henry
Lawrence, Frederick

MEMBERS:
Lesch, Claud Reznor
Lehmann, Louis Lazard
Lynch, William
McCullough, Daniel
McPherson, Robert E.
Muse, George Oliver
Muse, William Gladstone
Palmer, Eliphalet Charles
Pa1mer, Louis R.
Read, Egbert B.
Reis, William Betts
Scholtz, Ernest
Semas, John
Sharp, Corodon, P. M.
Sherburne, John 0.
Sherburne, Louis Flanders, P. M.
Shreeve, Frederick
Silveira, Joseph L.
Simpson, Michael Lewis
Smith, Duncan Lewellen
Sp~ncer, Harry Fremont
Stow, James Monroe
Wi.tt, Frederick William
Westcott, George M.
Williams, Arthur
Williams, John
Witten, Charles Liireoln
Wood, Fred V.

-57

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

ALAMO LODGE, No.

Smith, George J.

122.

Walm;.t Creek, Contra Costa County.

DIED:
Hill, James D.

Stated Meeting.;i, Saturday of or next suceeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Henry Hough, Master,
Ernest Scholz, Senior Deacon,
Harry Fremont Spencer, Sen. War., Joel A. Harlan, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Lewis Silveira, Jun. Warden, Corodon Sharp, Marshal,
Claud Resner Leech, Treasurer,
Winfield Scott Burpee, Steward,
Louis Lazard Lehmann, Secretary, Arthur Williams, Steward,
Eliphalet Charles Palmer, Tyler.

• r

169

Wiley, George

170

ROSTER.

SOTOYOME LODGE, No.

ROSTER.
123.

Healdsburg, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFPICERS:
Eli Bush, Master,
Geo. \Vash. Brewster, Senior Deacoti,
William Henry Skinner, Sen. Ward., Charles Wilfred Bourne, Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Elmore Huffman, Jun. War., Edwin Dayton Eby, Marshal, ·
Matthias Raabe, Treasurer,
Arthur Wallace Luther, Steward,
Wm. Wash. Ferguson, Secretary,
Clifford Laurens Cox, Steward,
Paris Jasper Ferguson, Chaplain,
Zemira Doane Nickerson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Asa C.
Fe1guson, William Wash., P. M.
Al€xander, George Cyrus
Fitzgerald, Matthias
Allendon, Arthur
Foote, Charles Hardy
Allendon, John
Frost, Harvey Chester
Allendon, William Henry
Frost, Martin Van B.
Andrews, George Benjamin
Gibson, Thomas Jefferson
Baer, Reuben Edward
Gobbi, Barney
Barnes, William Henry, P. M.
Goddard, Daniel Nevada
Bates, John Leavitt
Goldstein, Joseph A.
Bidwell, John
Grant, Frederick Thomas
Black, Harvy Edward
Gray, Edward Swinton, P. M
Blackburn, George
Gunn, John Henry, P. M.
Bourne, Charles Wilfred
Hall, Clarence Conway
Brewster, George Washington
Hall, Lieuallen J., Jr.
Briggs, Hiram
Hall, Maitland Grant
Burr, Frank
Hardy, Jonathan
Burroughs, Robert Edward
Hazen, Frank
Bush, ]<;H
Henning, John Abraham
Butterfield, George Henrv, P. M.
Hewett, Clyde Amos
. Cake, Everette Pierce
Hicks, Walter Eugene
Coffman, James Trisler
Holmes, William Frank
Coffman, Nelson Bradley
Hooten, Martin Van B., P. M
Cooke, Frank Willis
Hopper, Henry Lee
Cox, Clifford Laurens
Horton, Samuel
Cox, Joseph David
Huffman, Joseph Elmore
Cox, Nathan Henry, P. M.
Jacks, Albert Rosco
Crocker, Harry Bosworth
Johnson, Richard Bruner
Doane, Lafayette William
Joy, William Henry
Eby, Edwin Dayton, P. M.
Kennedy, George Henry
Eby, Moses Starr
Kimball, Charles Lloyd
Etter, Wade Hampton
Koberg, Louis Carl
Ferguson, Paris Jasper
Lorenzini, Dominico

••

171

Learn, Ahraham Lincoln
Provines, Lewis Bissell
Legh, Robert Percy
:priest, William Henry
Lewis, Calvin McMillin
Raabe, Matthias, P. M.
Raymond, Charles Francis
Litchfield, Oscar J., P. M.
Long, Grnrge Washington
Reniff, Lewis Arnold
Rickman, James Louis
Luther, Arthur W.
Rofmer, .Ernest Edward
Mack, Frank Fremont
J:tosenberg, Melville Milton
Matthews, Charles Wesley, Jr
Rowland, Edwin Stanton
Matthews, Charies Wesley, Sr.
Seawell, J:ames Walter
Matthews, John Wesley
Seawell, J arnes William
Mayo, Joseph, P. M.
Shfrriff, George
Mccutchan, James B.
Silberstein, Jacob
Mccutchan, William Hugh
Skinner, William Henry
McDonnell, Henry
Soenikson, Henry Nisson
McMinn, Joseph Andrews
Somes, James
McNamara, James Thomas, P. M.
Spankie, Gilbert Waugh
Meyer, Harry Herpert
Rtaton, Avery Blythe
Meyer, Louis
Stoffa!, Phil
Meyer, Samuel
Stone,' Mack Voorhees
Mickelson, Otto Emil
Swisher, James Riley
Miller, George William, P. M.
Temple, William
Minette Antonio Perellis
Terry, Jame~ William
Moreland, William Walter
Thompson, Edwin Davis
Mothorn, Perry Douglass
Thompson, .1ohn Morrow
Murdock, Glen Elbert
Trr.itt, John Richmond
Nay, Heber Lewis
V ;,a Alen, William
Nickerson, Zemira Doane
Walters, Solomon
Norton, Edward Molloy
Wallace, Glen Allen
Osborn, Edward Welch
Warfield, George H., P. M.
P:issalacqua. Andrew D.
Wamer, Paul Earl
Patrick, James
Whitney, William Benjamin
Patterson, Clyde Ray
Wickham, Charles
Patterson, J. J.
Wilcox, George P.
Papera, Natale
Wiltermood, William Robert
Peterson, Peter Chrii,tian
Wilson, John Hodgson
Phillips, Samuel Edward
Young, John, P. M.
Pitts, Frank
Young, John Shaw
Powell, Ransom
Zimmerman, Augusta David.
Price, Pittman H.
-143
Provines, Alex. Brookie
WITHDRAWN:
Wall, Henry Chesley
Laymance, Isaac C.

DIED:
Petray, Ransom Alexander
Ottmer, Henry Christian

172

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

TABLE MOUNTAIN LODGE, No. 124.

LA ' FAYETTE LODGE, No.

173
126.

Cl:erokee, Butte County.

Sebastopol., Sonoma County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next precedix:.g Full Moou.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Edwin Thomas James, Master,
Henry Franklin Bader, Sen. Deacon,
John Elisha Wells, Senior Warden, Evan William Morgan, Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Hurst Davis, Junior Warden, Richard Henry Jones, Marshal,
Daniel Claud Morgan, Treasurer, John Hufford, Steward,
William S. Williams, Secretary,
Levi Woodbury Lee, Steward,
George Medanich,_ Tyler.

David Drake Sinclair, Master,
Ralph Evans Swarts, Senior Deacon,
Joseph Clinton Moran, Sen. Warden, William Walter Williams, Jun. Dea.,
Harold Morrison, Junior Warden, Albertus Evermont Finnell, Marshal,
Thomas Garrett Wilton, Treasurer, Harry Homer Hall, Steward,
Valentine Watson, Secretary,
Hugh McCormick, Steward,
Hickman Estes, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Robert D.
Bader, Charles William
Bade1, E.enry Franklin, P. M.
Blomme, John
Bollinger, James Sim
Bower, Elam P.
Campbell, James Alex.
Chivell, Thomas Henry
Cohn, Levi
Cornell, Loyd Power
Cory, Francis Marion
Davis, Joseph Hurst
Dolan, Martin John
Edmunds, John
Fuqua, George Hale
Gassaway, Arthur Decatur
Goodday, Isaac Figle
Grant, Lincoln ffiysses
Hengy, William Sinclair
Henry, Charles Allen
Holub, Frank
Hufford, John Newton
James, Edwin Thomas, P. M .
Jones, Elias Harris, P. M.
Jones, Richard Henry, P. M.
Jones, William Peter
Johnson, Charles Henry
Jurgensen, Peter Alex.

ME1~BERS:

Lee, Levi Woodbury
Lott, Charles Fayette, P. M.
Mack, William Edward
Medanich, George, P. M.
Mellon, Wiliiam James
Morgan, Daniel Claud
Morgan, Evan William
Morrison, John
Nisbet, Andrew
Patterson, Jacob
Powers, Robert Sutherlarnl
Rowe, James
Ryan, Andrew
Smith, David Walter
Smith, Willie Ernest
Sovereign, George Whitefield
Spangler, Christie Marshall
Tate, Frank Raymond
Tegrunde, Herman
Vandegrift, Samuel A.
Wells, John Elisha
Wells, Michael Waldyer
White, Henry Caldwell, P. M
Whitelaw, John Frederick
Williams, David Herbert
Williams, William S.
Wilson, Edgar Calvin

-55
DIED:

Myers, Lester Lewellen

Armstrong, George James
Harvey, Charles Edward
Armstrong, George Riley
Hill, Charles Nelson
Atzeroth, Henry Brugge
Howell, L. V. Hardenburg, P. M.
Baity, William Henry
Hunt, William Jesse
Baxter, Samuel Emanuel
Hurlbut, Edwin T. Monroe, ·P . M.
Benepe, Wesley Leander
Jacobs, William
Blanchad, David Henry
Kerr, William James
'Burneson, Andrew J.
Kimble, Charles, P. M.
Burroughs, David
Kimes, David Mandis
Burroughs, John
Laton, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Case, Arthur Daniel
Laton, E-iward Lee
Chenoweth, James Merrett
Libby, George Henry
CUne, John Wesley
Libby, George Wilfred, P. M.
Coats, William Bradshaw
Loser, John Benjamin
Cody, Mathew
Lyach, George Leslie
Compton, Thomas Jefferson
Mallary, Charles Wesley
Co!"bin, George Henry
Markham, Henry Clay
Crabtree, Albert Henry
Martin, Frank Milton, P. M.
Crawford, Jesse B.
Massie, Andrew, Sr.,
Darby, Martin Ernest
McCormick, Hugh
Davis, Henry Clay
McGuire, William Pleasant
Do.lge, Fred Augustus
Mennetti, A. G. Perrelli
Dufrane, Vital
Monroe, Walter Wavard
Espey, George Moultrie
Moran, Joseph Clinton
Espey, Sydney, P. M.
Morris, Harry Bullen, P. M.
'E8tes, Hickman
Morrison, Harold
Ewing, Loer McDonald
Muggi, Christian
Finnell, Alburtus Evermont, P. M. Nichols, Henry James
Graham, Simon
Oliver, Charles
Hall, Albert Judson
Osborn, Alex.
Hall, Harry Horner
Palmer, Francis Warren

174

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Park, William Ellsworth
Phillips, Arthur Stephens
Proctor, David Clinton
Proctor, David Dickie
Ragle, Alex.
Riekard, Wiiliam Goodman, P. M.
Ross, Fernando Elmer
Ross, Losson
Ro9s, Robert
Ross, William Danforth
Sanborn, George Newell
Sawyer, Joeeph Franklin
Scammon, Charles Melville
Scheidecker, Albert Frederick
Searles, Frank M.
Shelly, John Calhoun
Sibly, Edward Franklin
Sinclair, David Drake

Spangler, Cvrus Asbury
Speller, rharles George
Story, James Augustu9
Story, Jerome Augustus
Strout, George Allen, P. M.
Sullivan, Asa Isaac
Surrhyne, Robert Henry
Swarts, Ralph Evans
Walk, Edward Grant
Walker, Joseph Erskine
Watson, Valentine
Webber, Henry C.
Weeks, Horace Munson
Willlon, Dee Dial Evans
Wilton, 'rhomas Garrett, P. M
Withington, Peter Stanton
Williams, John Amos
Williams, William Walter
-98

DIED:
McDonald, David Harrison
SC<eley, David
Sandmeyer, Mathias

HERMANN LODGE, No.

127.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Otto Lemcke, Master,
William H. Gercke, Senior Deacon,
William .Eicher, Senior Warden,
Frederick Wm. Wolters, Jun. Deacon,
George A. Creon, Junior Warden, Sebastian B. Kress, Marshal,
Diedrich B.. Uhte, Treasurer,
Jakob Weiler, Steward,
Ludwig Schumacher, Secretary.
Theodore Henry Hage, Steward,
Herman Schoene, Tyler.
Affolter, J .o seph
Ahlers, Henry
Alber, Emil
Alkalay, Lc>opold J.
Alpers, George
Atzeroth, Edlef
Baader, John

MEMBERS:
Bachmann, Adol,Ph
Bahrs, George H.
Barth, William H.
Baumgartner, John
Beekh, Gust.av Carl, P. M.
Be1ger, David
Blaich, Adolph

•

Blucher, George Henry
Blunck, Carl Ernst
Bonig, August
Borgfeldt, William H.
Breuss, Michael A.
Bruns, Charles H.
Burgin, Gustav
Busse, August, P. M.
Carillon, Charles A.
Clail'Illont, Ralph de, P. M.
Creon, George A.
Dickman, Charles A.
Dierks, Theodor
Druhm, Carl
Eggeling, Henry
Eicher, William
Emmrich, Ernst
Fink, Conrad
Fischer, John, P. M.
Fisher, John He:p.ry, Jr.
Fritsch, Emil
l!'uendeling, Julius
Gail, Andreas
Gall, Balthe!I G.
Gebhardt, Charles A. A.
Geilfuss, Henry, P. M.
Gercke, Fritz, P. M.
Gercke, William H.
Gier, Theodor
Grosse, Alfred B.
Habenicht, Fritz
Hackfeld, Hermann
Hagemann, Charles, Jr.
Hagemann, Fritz, P. M.
Hansen, Charles Emil, P. M.
Hansen, Volquart Nicnolas
Hatteroth, William
Hechinger, Louis C.
Heide, Christian F.
Heinstadt, Peter
Heinz, Christopher
Hellberg, Henry
Hennings, Adolf
Hermann, John
Herold, Rudolph, Jr.

Hess, Joseph
Hildebrandt, Charles Her.ry
Hink, Louis
Hinrichsen, Henry
Ickier, Henry
.Jonassen, Alfrerl
Joos, George
Jordan, Ernst C. H.
Jordan, Rudolf
Kaiser, Fritz
Keil, Gustav
Kenitzer, Henry, P. M.
Kiefer, Philipp
Klaassen, Henry
Kleiber, Paul
Kl<>vesahl, Ernst P. C.
Koch, Frank
Kohler, William
Kohn, Carl F.
Kohs, John
Korbel, Franz
Koster, August
Kress, Sebastian B.
Krieg, Anton
Krieg, Henry Sebastian
Krumholz, Jacob
Kutsch, George
Lemcke, Otto
Levy, Louis
Luchsinger, George H.
Mainzer, Julius M.
Marquard, Henry
.Maurer, Leo
Mrnke, Frederick
Mensing, John H.
Meyer, August F.
Meyer, Henry
Muller, Fritz
Muller, Louis, P. M.
Muller, Philipp
Munster, John Henry
Neuhaus, Christian H.
Nordholz, Frederick J.
Oppel, J'lhn V.
Plagemann, Henry

175

176

ROSTER.

Poessenbacher, Ludwig
Quardt, John
Rahtjen, Philipp
Raith, Johannes C.
Rapp, John
Rehn, Charles
Reichwald, Paul
Reidt, Johannes
Remensperger, Ulrich
Rohrbach, Joseph Philipp
Rohte, Cha1les Emil, P. M.
Rolfs, Ernst
Ruediger, Julius
Rust, Ferdinand
Sahng, Theodor
Schaefer, August
Schaefer, Fritz
Schernstein, Karl
Schilling, William F.
Schlichting, Claus H.
Schlichtmann, John
Schmidt, Henry
Schoene, Herman
Schou, Frank M.
Schumacher, Ludwig, P:M.
Schurmann, Frederick William
Schussler, Hermann D. A.
Schutt, Carl
Schwarz, Karl August
Schwesinger, Hermann Geo., P. M.
Simmen, John
Sonne, Hermann Theodor
Speckter, Richard
Speidel, Adolph Friedrich
Stanke, Albert F.
Steinbach, William
Sternfeld, Moritz

Sternitzky, Richard, P. M.
Sternitzky, Robert Reinhold
Struven, John
Struwing, Johann Hermann
Theisen, S. Joseph, P. M.
Thiede, Hugo
Trautner, Charles
tum Buden, Otto
Uhte, Diedrich Bernardt
Vocke, Henry K.
Volkman, Carl Moritz
von der Mehden, J. Louis, Jr.
Waizman, Max
Waldenmeier, August
Wannenmacher, Robert
Warnke, William N. W.
Wassmann, Hermann
Weiler, Jakob
·Weis, Arthur H.
Werlen, Frederick F.
Westphal, Peter
Wiese, John
Wiese, John G. H.
Willweber, Otto
Winter, Moritz
Wohltmann, William
Wolf, Victor
Wolters, Frederick William
Wolters, George
Wucherer, William
Wurzbach, William
Zeiss, Louis
Zenker, Robert
Zerweck, Ernst
Zimmermann, Gustav
Zinkan·d, Ferdinand J.
Zinkand, William Charles
-178

DIED:
Schulte, John G. W.

Rode, Christian Bernhard (E. A.)

ROSTER.

VISALIA LODGE, No.

177
128.

Visalia, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

•

OFFICERS:
Ira Chrisman, Senior Deacon,
Fred'k Samuel Gilbert, Master,
Henry Newman, Senior Warden,
James Edwin Gannon, Junior Deacon,
Frank Lamberson; Junior Warden, Harry B. McClure, Marshal,
Edward E. Baker, Steward,
Lemuel Clason Hyde, Treasurer,
Frederick Daniel Steel, Secretary, Everett LeRoy Miller, Steward,
Hubert Cowley Carroll, Chaplain, Freedom Moulton Rice, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Charles Lincoln
Cutler, Leonard
Allen, Albert Henry
Deming, Raymond H.
Denny, James Edward
Allen, Jonas Adelmas, P. M.•
Dozier, William Gaillard, Jr.
Anderson, David Oscar
Duckwall, Simon Weaver
Baird, Benjamin Morgan
Dungan, James Wilson
Baker, Edgar E.
Barton, Franklin Frederick, P. M. Edwards, Duncan M.
Ellis, William Josiah
Beales, George Francis
Flournoy, William Venable
Bell, William Jordan
l'rankenau, Max
Belz, George Andrew
Berry, Hugh Rier
Fudge, Edmund Jones
Braverman, Max
Gannon, James Edwin
Galhoun, Milo Adam
Gilbert, Fr<>derick Samuel
Callison, Robert Henry
Glasscock, Alpha Hayden
Carroll, Hu1>ert Cowley
Goad, John Enseley
Chambers, Ludlow
Goldstein, Leon
Graham, Edward McDonald
Chatten, Richard Jasper
Chatten, Thomas Alex.
Gray, Wheaton Andrew, P. M.
Chrisman, Ira
Green, Wilber W.
Grove, Millard Fillmore
Col!n, Eugene Alfred
Guggenhime, Leon·
Combs, Fielding Alex.
Combs, James Ennis
Hall, Albion Eugene
Hammon tl, William Hall
Cook, Leslie
Couzens, William Jacquenay
Harter, Isaac Monroe
Cox, Edward Theo.
Hansch, Charles Henry Joseph
Cranston, Floyd Cole
Rausch, l.Jhi-istian
Crosett, James Haren
Hawkins, Rufus Morgan
Cross, Oscar Reeves
Hayes, Timothy
Cross, William Walter
Houston, William Washingtou
Crowley, Arthur _
Howard, John William
Cutler, John
Hunsaker, Allen
12

-I
178

ROSTER.

Owen, Richard Hugh·
Hunsaker, Henry
Patterson, Thomas Jefferson
Humphrey, Wyatt Marion
Parker, George Alvia, P. M.
Hyde, Lemuel Clason, P. M.
Pease, Edwin R.
Iseman, Myer E.
Pettit, Mark Lytton
.Jerusalem, ilenry
Peudola, Beneditto
.Johnson, .John Sublitt
Prothero, .Jerome
.Jordan, .John Francis
Quinn, Harry
.Judd, Orion Mathias
Ralston, Elza Clark
Kettner, William, P. M,
Refd, George Victor, P. M.
Kinkler, Charles Henry
Rice, Freedom Moulton
Lamberson, Frank
Selegman, Louis
Larkins, Elwood Oliver
Shiffert, Irving A.
Lawless, .John Byrd
Smith, George Depler
Levis, J,eon
Smith, Milton Wix
Levinson, Harry
Smith, Seth
Levy, Nathan
Levy, Simon
Spear, .Jacob Benjamin
'
Stoneman, Finis Ewing
Lucier, Louis
Swanger, Francis Asbury
Maddox, Ben Moyers, P. M.
Sweet, Adoiph David
May, .James .Johnston
Thl'mas, Walter Franklin
McClure, Harry Beaumont, P. M.
Tuohy, .John, P. M.
McFadzean, Daniel, P. M.
Ul.l, Fred
McSwain, Thomlls Omar
' Walker, Charles .Jesse
McVeagh, Edward Erastus
Wallace, William B., P. M.
Miles, Ellward Harrison, P. M.
Ward, Frederick William, P. M.
Miller Everette LeRoy
Ward, .roseph Clarence, P. M.
Mitchell, .Jay E.
Warner, Frederick Appleton, P. M.
Mixter, Francis Wilber
.. Waugh, .Jasper Dodridge
Murray, Abram Hunter, P. M.
Murray, Abram Hunter, .Jr., P. M. Wells, Morgan .James
Wells, William Reed
Newman, Henry
Weishar, Augustus
Nuttall, Hassalone
Wilber, Charley Alvah
Orr, Alfred Randall
Williams, .James Frederick
Osborn, .James Orland
Wright, George Washington
Overall, Daniel Griffith
-133
Overall, Orval
WITHDRAWN:
Simpson, Robert Glen

Chatten, Richard

DIED:
Curtis, William Moses
Holder, Thomas Woodville

ROSTER.

NICOLAUS LODGE, No.

179
129.

Wheatland, Yuba County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Mo01:.

•

OFFICERS:

Augustus Riechers, Master,
James Martin Hicks, Senior Deacon,
Amasa George Oakley, Sen. Warden, Benjamin Wm. Thomas, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Alex. Hadley, Jun. Warden, L. Lincoln Kimerer, Marshal,
Elisha F. Enochs, Treasurer,
Thomas Harris Absolam, Steward,
John Frederick Baun, Secretary,
Henry Hayes Huffaker, Steward,
James Polk Kesner,- Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Absolam, Thomas
Hicks, Stephen Dougfa.s
Anderson, Frank Willetts, P. M.
liilliard, Frederick .Jesse
Anderson, George ·Leander
Huffaker, Anthony
Atkisson, Albert Alpheus
Huffaker, Harry Hays
Atkisson, Wllliam Brice
Hutchinson, Frederick LaF.
Austin, Edward
Hutchinson, Perkins LaF.
Baun, .John Frederick, P. M.
.Jasper, William George
Baxter, Willard Morris
Kesner, .James Polk, P. M.
Beck, Herman HanseYJ.
Kimerer, L. Lincoln
Bennett, Lemuel .Jones
Landis, .James Frederick
Berry, Rufus Cowin
Lai;_dis, .John
Bevan, Thomas Edward
Lund, Charles William
Blackford, Price
Manwell, Edward Tecumsa
Byron, Edward Herbert
Meran, .John William
Ulick, Daniel
McCulloch, William Hudson
Coffin, William Franklin.
Mccurry, Lewis Waters
Creps, Burton L.
Mccurry, Samuel Sievers
Midgley, Fred W.
CrPps, Roscoe
Enochs, Elisha Franklin
Muck, Francis Henery
EnC1chs, Plummer
·
Niemeyer, Herman Albert
Frasier, Daniel
Ni>lms, George Frederick
Glazier, Frede_rick
Oakley, Amasa George
Griffiths, Albert Gerard
Oyster, William M.
Grant, Charles Fitch, P. M.
Pincur, Emil
Hadley, Albert Alex.
·
Purinton, Henry Osgood
Haile, Henry
'
Purcell, .John
H!Jnson, W•llard Charles
. Rhmehart, William Rufus
Hartley, .Joseph Robert
Riechers, Augustus, P. M.
Hedger, .Joseph Mason
Robson, Andrew Armstead
Hicks, James Martin, P. M.
Roddan, David Ferris

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

180
Sowell, Benjamin Franklin
Sowell, Ernest Elmer
Sowell, John Amos
Spencer, Edward George, P. M.
Stoddard, Cyrus
Stratton, George William
Thomas, Benjamin W.

Thomas, Lewis Evans
Thomas, William Henry
Uhler, David William
Viles, Carlton Hoodlet
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson
Wolf, Simon, P. M.
-73

r

WITHDRAWN:
McFee, William James

WOODBRIDGE LODGE, No.

131.

Woodbridge, San Joaquin County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Mooi::..
OFFICERS:

Charles Robert Rutledge, Master,
Edward Harlan Wakefield, Sen. Dea.,
Camden Warren Keen, Sen. Warden, Frand De La Ralls, Junior Deacon,
Geo. David Parkinson, Jun. Ward., Freeman Benjamin Mills, Marshal,
Frank Perrott, Treasurer,
Elmer John Shinn, Steward,
Blakeley Robert Woods, Secretary, George Rutledge, Steward,
Wm. Henry Treadway, Chaplain,
George Dunn McClelland, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Covell, Wright Thompson
Crump, John Edward
Culp, James Elmer
DeVries, Marion
Pavinger, George
Groves, Hamilton Shotwell
Hart, Edward Baker
Hastings, Hervey LeRoy
Hemphill, Edward Hendryx
Henderson, Jame~ Mitchell
Henderson, William Woods, P. M.
Hickey, John Hurd
Hilliard, Samuel Emlin
Holmes, James. William
Housken, Gi-orge
Housken, George Edwin
Hull, James Porterfield, P . M.
Huron, William Wilson, P. M.

Anderson, George William, P. M.
Arthur, Samuel Richard, P. M.
Ashley, Frank Henry
Beckman, Henry
Beckman, Theodore Henry, P. M.
Blackley, James
Boyce, Amos
Brack, Jacob
Burkett, Thoma~ Robeson, P. M.
Caldwell, James Thomas
Carr, Walter LeGrand
Uhristian, James Tilden
Corell, William
Cory, John Braly, P. M.
Costello, John Franklin
Covell, Allan Palmer
Covell, Elbert AUan
Covell, George Francis

'

Jahant, Walter Victor
Jefferson, Jacob Price
Johnson, William Horton
Jones, George Washington
Keen, Camden Warren
Keller, John
Langford, George William, P M.
Latta, Sll.muel Eikenbarry, P. M.
M~Clelland, Amos Amson, P. M.
McClelland, George Dunn
Mcintosh, Edwih Jonathan
Mcintosh, Thoinas Baldwin
McNoble, George Francis, P. M.
Mills, Freeman Benjamin; P. M_.
Myers, Benjamin Sylvester Neil
Newton, Charles Lewis, P. M .
Newton, Charles Victor
Newton, Cyrus Brownlee
Newton, Frank Crawford
Ogden, Henry Thomas
Parker, John Straughn
Parkinson, George Davi.'
Perrott, Frank, P. M.
·Ralls, Frank De La

Beckman, Frank William
Hutson, James Lawrence

181

Reed, Jonathan Piere.:
Rutledge, Charles Robert
Rutledge, George
Sargent, James Henry
Sharp, Henry Wilcox
Shinn, John Elmer
Smith, Charles Robertson
Sovereign, Seth
Steen, Moses Duncan Alex.
Thompson, Edwr..rd Rees, P. M.
Thompson, John Chatten, P. M.
Thompson, John Henry
Towne, Burton Augustus
Treadway, Orvis Wesley Ring
Treadway, William Henry
Van Gelder, Morris
Vickerson, John Irving
Wakefield, Edward Harlan
White, Willis Washington
Wilken3on, Thomas Edgar
Williams, William Henry
Woods, Albert James
Woods, Blakely Robert. P. M

-83

DIED:
Roy, David Thomas (E. A.)
Woads, John Newton

SINCERITY LODGE, No.

132.

Greenville, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Wm. Thomas Treleaven, Master,
Thomas Henry Trezise, Sen. Deacon,
Robert Augustus Boyden, Sen. War., John Wardlow, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Herbert Draney, Jun. Warden. Edward Ament Ranker, Marshal,
John R. Murray, Treasurer,
Frank Kruger, Steward,
William Price Boyden, Secretary, Donald William McKenzie, Steward,
Robert Leslie McGill, Tyler.

ROSTER.

182

Abbott, Edward Hiram
Boning, James Henry
Boyden, William Price, P. M.
Boyden, Robert Augu~tus
Bunnell, Lucius Abraham
Bresler, Charles
Draney, William Humbert
Elam, William Arthur
Flynn, William
Goebel-, Frederick August
Grant, Angus Duncan
Harland, Henry Lumley
Hepler, Charles Y.
Janney, Edwin Howard
Kelley, John Henry
Kruger, Frank, P. M.
Langrhr, Henry Christian.
Laufman, Cyrus
Laufman, Robert Lee

MEMBERS:
Mccutcheon, Hugh, P. M,
McGill, Robert Leslie
McKenzie, Donald William
McLeod, Keneth
McMillan, Alexander Dougald
McMillan, Douglas Alexander
McRorie, T}.omas
Morton, William Bennett
Murray, John R., P. M.
Ranker, Edward Arthur
Stover, Charles Franklin
Taylor, James Terrill
Trezise, Thomas Henry, P. M
Treleaven, William Thomas, P. M.
Trubody, Charles Malcolm
Urten, Frederick George L. ·
Wardlow, John
Young, Robert William, P. M,
-37

WITHDRAWN:
Shell, Charles Elsworth
DIED:
Roeckers, Frederick William

Perry, James Elisha

YOSEMITE LODGE, No. 133·
Coulterville, Mariposa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

S;.tmuel Douglas Hobron, Master,
Frederick Tyacke, Senior Deacon,
Thomas B. McCarthy, Sen. Warden, Thomas Henry Mutton, Jun. Deacon,
Rudolph Antone Blum, Jun. Warden, Samuel Benjamin Ferguson, Marshal,
Daniel Wagner, Treasurer,
Charles Wagner, Steward,
John James Quick, Secretary,
Charles Christopher Ford, Steward,
Charles Adolph Schwartz, Tyler.
Blum, Rudolph Antone
Broan, Joseph James
Cella, John Battiste

MEMBF.RS:
Down, Charles William
Ferguson, &amuel Benjamin, P M.
Fisk, Oliver

ROSTER.
Floto, William Charles
Ford, Charles Christopher
Hilliard, Miner
Hobron, San:uel Douglas, P. M
Koenig, Theo. Theron
McCarthy, Thomas Bernard
Mutton, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Park, Dean William, P. M.

4

183

Quick, John James, P. M.
Schell, Edwin Herbert
Schwartz, Charles Adolph
Thomas, John Lewis
Tyacke, Frederick
Wagner, Daniel, P. M.
Wagner, Charles

-21

'
VACA VILLE LODGE,

•

N:o. 134·

Vacaville, Solano County•
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

John Thomas Montgomery, Master, Wiley Smith Killingsworth, Sr. Dea.,
Orestus Humboldt Allison, Sr. War., Frank Herbert Clark, Junior Deacofl.
Harry Danforth Chandler, Jr. War., Edward Cleveland Andrews Marshal
John Watson Spear, Treasurer,
Rudolph Schaefer Steward'
'
Samuel Franklin Ellison, Secretary, Lewis Carson M~rshall, s/eward,
Frederick Herman Kruse, Chaplain, Henry Eversole, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Akerly, George Parry
Allison, Orestus Herman
Allison, Orestus Humboldt
Andrews, Edward Cleveland
Apperson, Victor Virgil
Arnold, John Monroe, P. M.
Arnold, George Allen, P. M.
Attkisson, Oscar Brice
Atwater, Henry
Bassett, Alvin Guy
Bassford, Joseph Edward
Blum, Jacob, P. M.
Brown, Archibald T.
Brown, Homer Grant
Buck, Ingalls Kinney, P. M.
Buck, Frank Herb.ert
Buck, William Henry
Buck, Fred McClellan
Buck, Frank Henry
Buckingham, Thomas Hugh
Cargill, Pardon

. C:mghy, John
Chandler, Harry Danforth
Chandler, Frederick Brewster
Chandler, Walker William
Chase, Ernst Samuel
Clark, Frank Herbert
Condon, Harry Leslie
Crystal, Carlton Clark
Derby, Charles Mason
Derby, Daniel Blanchard
Dickie, Frank Eugene
Dobbins, Sterling P., P. M.
Drew, Francis Bernard
Dunn, Henry Clay
Ellison, Samuel Franklin
Engstrom, Adolph L.
Ennor, Harvey Wilford
Eversole, Henry, P. M.
Eversole, James
Edwards, Walter Hatch
Fisher, Edward

184

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Fotheringham, Charles Allen
Montgomery, William Creed
}'rame, George
Morgan, Bertram Franklin
Gates, Robert Campbell
]\.jielsen, Carl Henrich
Gates, Thomas Lee
Niel, Charles
Gamble, Frank Alex.
Noel, William Henry
Gamble, Stephen Everett
Parker, William Boyd
Goodwin, Woodbury McC.,P. M.
Peabody, Ernest Augustus
Hagerty, .John .Tames
. Peterson, Louis Henry
Hartley, Clement Madison
Palmer, Humphrey Parin
Hartley, Victor Worthington, P. M Reid, Robert Lincoln, P. M.
Hathaway, Harry Rivers
Powers, George Adelbert
Hawkins, George Marshall
Price, Williai;n Henry, P. M.
Haworth, Morris Wells
Riechers, Charles
Hewitt, Trent Logee
Robinson, Chester Gates
.Tones, Harry Nathamel
Rust, Charles Baldwin
.Tones, Robert Hugh
Samuels, George Washington
Jenney, Warren C.
Schroeder, William Llluis
Killingsworth, Wiley Smith
Schaefer, Rudolph
Kowanda, Thomas
Smith, Fred Martin
Kruse, Fred Herman
Sponslor, Alanson Chandler
Lancaster, Ralph Edward
Spear, .John Watson
Lawrence, William Edward
Stevenson, Andrew Vincent, P M.
Lindquist, Carl Ludwig
Stevenson, George Maupin
Losee, Albert William
Stevenson, Charles Albert
Losee, Charles Henry
Stitt, .Tames Warren
Losee, ElmeT Lyonidas
Stanford, David
Maclay, Samuel Ralph, P. M
Sullivan, .Tames William
Manuel, Eli William ·
Tate, Horace Phillip
Marshall, Francis Freeman
Thurber, Edwin Robinson
Marshall, Lewis Carson
Thurber, Edw. Robinson, Jr., P. M.
Marshall, Jam es
Troughton, Francis Thomas
Mt·Bride, William Zeph
Watson, Henry Melville
McFarland, Eugene Elden
Weed, tnysses Edgar·
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, P M.
Wilson, Lee A.
McKevitt, Frank Benjamin, .Tr.
Wilson, Thomas Stanley
McMillan, Edwi;.rd Houston
Wooderson, Geo. Frederick, P. M.
McMillan, Robert Boone
Wood, Eugene G.
Moffitt, Rolla Maxwell
Wooden, .John Henry
Montgomery, .John Thomas
-119

VALLEY LODGE, Ne. r35.
Linden, San Joaquin Cou:aty.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

MEMBERS:
Alling, Mark Norman
Lorch, James
Anderson, John, P. M.
Loker, Victor Manuel
Bonham, Andie Lester, P. M.
Martin, David Patton
Bonham, William Hervey
Mahl, Godfrey
Brooke, Thomas Jefferson
McCausland, James Audley
Bryson, David
Meyer, Charles Herman
Case, Carlton Coolidge, P. M.
Ormsby, Elon Arwin
Corson, Joseph Morrison, P. M.
Owens, Henry Taylor
Davis, Edward Freeman, P. M.
Owens, James Rutherford
Davis, Edgar Lee
Pearson, Seth Allen
Davis Albert Newt.on
Peck, John Loveman, P. M.
Day, Thompson Blount
Perryman, Charles
·
Day, Gordon Martin
Peters, .T ohn Henry
Drace, James Albert
Pope, Sidney Pernell
Dyke, Ozra David
Reid, John Calhoun, P. M.
Eldred, Havilla Pembroke
Rich, Arthur Henry
Freeman, Walter
Ryburn, John Clarke
Frost, Haller Conventry, P. M.
Ryburn, David Beattie
Glasgow, Wood Irwin
Sheets, William Henry
Hancock, Arthur Raymon<l
Seyser, Jacob
Harrison, Charles Norval
Smith, Arthur Thomas
Hopkins, George Marvin
Thomas, Wayne
Keiver, David William, P. M.
Thomas, (Jharles Wayne, P. M.
Lewis, Horace Churchill
-41
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Owens, Walter James

..

185

HOSTER.

186

ROSTER.

PACIFIC LODGE, No. 136.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday' in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Francis Leonard, Master,
Walter Scott Gray, Senior Deacon,
Eugene Samuel Elkus, Sen. Warden, Benjamin Russell Wood, Jr. Deacon,
Edward Samuel Isaac, Jun. Warden, Herman Wertsch, Marshal,
George Louis Darling, Treasurer,
Ernest Leonard West, Steward,
George Penlington, Secretary,
David A. Hemphill, Steward,
James Whitten, Tyler.
MEMBERS:,
Adelstein, Samuel
Alexander, Joseph
Altshuler, Levi
Andersen, Niels
Anderson, Henry Andrew
Anderson, James Wright, P. M.
Anderson, John
Anderson, Thomas
Anderson, Wellington .Joshua
Andresen, Niels Julius
Andrews, Edwin Harold
Andrews, Harry Alta
Armitage, William Henry
Arnold, Louis Edgar
Arnold, Thomas Cook
Aschheim, Israel Julius, P. M.
Babbitt, John Henry
Babkirk, Alexander Cain
Baccus, Louis Richard
Baggett, William Thomas, P. M.
Ballard, Francis Marion
Bankey, Charles
Banner, Marcus
Baskerville, Edwin
Baum, Gustus
Beck, Frederick Charles
Beck, William Arthur
Beckley, Lawrence Victor
Bell, Dickson Gabriel
Berel, Samuel
Berg, Alfred

Berliner, Charles Adolph
Bianchini, Louis
Bien, Joseph
Biller, John
Binge, Theodore C. Daniel
Binner, Theodor
Bloom, Solomon
Bolander, Louis Philip
Boley, Daniel
Bond, Charles Benjamin
Booth, Frank Edmund
Borchardt, Paul
Borkheim, William Irwin
Boyd, Colin Macnicol
Bragg, Robert, Jr.
Branderstein, Charles
Brignoli, Nicholas Peter
Brisco, Hylton Aubrey
Browen, Jeremiah
Brown, Andrew
Bunzl, Julius
Caley, James Henry Corteev
Cameron, John William
Campbell, James
Caples, John Wallace
Carrick, James Ross, P. M.
Casner, Mark
Casselmann, Julius MolteI
Cavanaugh, James Bernard .
Center, John
Church, David Orion

•

\

Clark George Waverley
Clark, Howard Ellsworth
Clark, James William
Clow, George B. Newell
Clifford, James Benjamin
Coffin, Lincoln Alverton
Cohen, Melville
Cohen, Philip
Cohen, Simon
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Louis Meyer
Compton, Louis Francis
Congdon, Joseph Hopkins
Cook, Stonewall Jackson
Cope, James Henry
Cormack, William
Cornehl, Henry
Cousins, Herbert William
Craig, David Calder
Craig, Frank
Craig Lee Darneal
Crandall, Charles Ellis
Crocker, Nathan, P. M .
Crouse, John Miles
Crowe, Joseph
Crowley, Timothy Jay
Crozier, Herbert William
Currell, John William
Currie, Robert
Curry, John
Cutting, John Tyler
Daly, Charles Elmer
Damner, Samuel
D 'Ancona, Alexander Dawson
D 'Ancona, David Arnold, P. M.
Darling, Charles Sherman
Darling, George Louis, P. M.
Davidson, Alexander Hunter
Davidson, George
Davis, George Eugene
Davis, Arthur Eugene
Delfs, Marcus Alexander
Dettner, George William
Dickinson, Robert Frank
Dixon, Frank Albert

Doble, Robert McFarland, P, M.
Dodge, Zenas Upham
Donald, William
Dougherty, Hugh
Dragomanovich, Spiro S. G.
Drube, John Gerhard
Dundas, Moubray Robert, P. M.
Dunn, Berry Elder
Earle, Henry Halford
Eaton, William Roberts
Edlin, Juda
Edwards, Myer Aaron
Edwards, William Harvey, P. M .
Ehlert, Charles Henry
Elder, William James
Elkus, Eugene Samuel
Eltingham, Robert Linnwood
Emmons, Elmer Lamar
Epsteen, Henry
Everding, James Campbell
Fairfield, Qrlando Weston
Fee, William Marcus
Feldmann, Diedrich
Ferguson, John
Ficke, Charles Henry
Finnegan, Matthew
Fkisig, Harry
Fleming, John William
Fraiberger, Max
Fraser, Daniel Gray
Fraser, Edwin Joseph
Frazier, Frank Edward
Freudenberg, Gustav Adolph
Friedhofer, William Ferdinand
Fross, Isaac
Fuller, Andrew Henry
Fulwider, Lucien Edgar
Furman, Henry Matthew
Gardiner, Henry Wadsworth L.
Gardiner, Robert McKay
Garrett, James Hyland
G;mld, James Green
Getz, Bernard
Getz, Marcus
Getz, Solomon, P. M.

181

188
Gilbert, John Henry
Gilberts, Edward
Gilmour, James
Gimpel, Marcus Christian
Glass, Samuel
Goetze, Frederick William
Goldberg, Louis Raphel
Goldsmith, Joseph LeConte
Goldstein, Simon
Goldstone, Samuel
Good, Robert Williamson, P. M.
Goodman, Abraham
Gordon, Benjamin Edwin
Gordon, George
Gough, William George
Grady, James
Graham, Frank Gordon
Grant, William
Graves, Walker Coleman, P. M.
Gray, Henry
Gray, Walter Scott
Green, George Sedwick
Green, Simon
Greenberg, Frank Lui
Greer, William John
Griffith, David Joseph
Grunig, Louis Herman
Gump, Solomon
Gunzburger, Benjamin Mitchell
Gunzburger, Emil
Hale, James William
Ham, Charles Herbert
Hamilton, James Thomas, P. M.
Hamilton, Walter William
Hancock, Robert John
Hansen, Frederick Ludwig, P. M.
Hanson, John
Harris, Benjamin
Harris, Charles Sigmund
Harris, Clarence Edgar
Harris, Isaiah
Harris, Louis Lehman
Harris, Matthew
Hathaway, Harry Lee
Hathaway, Harry Richard

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Healey, Lauren Everett
Hechheimer, Leopold
Heins, Herman
Heller, Louis Charles
Hemphill, David Abercombie
Henderson, Hugh C.
Hendry, Andrew Murray
Hi~ls, Reuben Walmarth
Hilp, Henry, P. M.
Hinz, August Julius Henry
Hobson, Clark
Hoffman, Abraham
Holcomb, Irving Alfred
Hollub, Samuel Simon
Hollzer, Harry Aaron
Hollzer, William
Holmes, Alfred Edward
Hughes, William George
Humphrey, George
Hunter, Thomas Charles, P. M.
Irvine, Alexander
Irvine, Nathaniel
Isaacs, Edward Samuel
Isaacs, Frank
Isaacs, Michael Henry
Jackson, Charles Edward, P. M.
Jacobson, Charles
James, Jefferson Gilbert
Jellinek, Charles, P. M.
Johnson, And_rew
Johnson, Christian Emanuel
Johnson, Francis Fenelon
Johnson, George Henry
Johnson, George Oliver
Johnson, Henry
Johnstone, Robert Murry
Jones, Alfred
Jones, Frank Able
Jones, Martin, P. M.
Joost, Fabian Sebastian
Juhl, Jesse Peter
Katz, Manda!
•
Kaplan, Bernard Milhael
Kelley, Michael John
Kelly, Robert Edward

•

.J
'

Kennedy, Albert Warren
Kennedy, Thomas
Kent, Thaddeus Benning
Kflrn, Henry
Kerr, Earl
Kincaid, Isaac Philamson, P. M.
King, Charles James, P. M.
Kleinhaupt, Moses
Kluver, Henry
Knighton, David William
Knudsen, Philip Julius
Knudson, Ingelbright
Kock, William Lincoln
Kramer, Maurice S.
Lace, Thomas Joshua
Lachman, Gustave
Lange, Edmund William Richard
Larsen, Lars Christian
Lasky, Michael Charles
Leighton, Elon Ernscliffe
Lemaitre, Jule,s
Lenchner, Henry
Lengfeld, Abraham Lewis
Leonard, Edward Francis
Lerond, Theodore
Levin, Louis
Levinsky, Mark, P. M.
Leviston, George, P. M.
Levy, Ba~ard
Levy, Louis
Levy, Lucien
Levy, Samuel Wolf
Lewis, John Clement
Lezinsky, George
Lincoln, Eiljah Whiting
Lipman, Abraham
Lippitt, Philip
Lippman, George
Livingston, Andrew William
Lochbaum, August Hermann
Lockwood, Thomas
Loehner, Edward
Loring, George Arthur
Lowell, John Franklin
Lucht, Conrad ·

189

Ludwig, John
Lutz, William Edward, P. M.
Lynch, Chester Thompson
Lynden, James Henry
Lynden, John Ross
Mackinnon, Thomas Alexander
Macowsky, Isaac
Macowsky, Jacob
Madden, Robert Willis
Madison, James
Maguire, Thomas Frank
Maison, Nathaly E.
Makins, James Nicholas
Mann, Seth
Manner, Charles Vogt
Marcum, Robert Francis
Maris, William
Marliave, Edward Cornelle
Marshall, Eugene Lee
Marshall, Patrick Slight
Mayle, George Dennis
McClure, William
McCray, Franklin Philander
McDougall, Charles Campbell
McElroy, Robert
McGregor, Alexander Henderson
McJunkin, Hugh King
McKay, John Henry
McLaren, John
McLea, Arthur
McLean, Alexander Davin
McLean, Malcolm
McLeod, Daniel
McLeod, John Alexander
McNealy, Mark
Mehrken, Peter John
·Melliush, Herbert Stanisland
Melrose, Kenneth
Mendelson, Morri~ Aaron
Mentz, John Henry
Merten, Max
Meyer, Alfred
Meyer, Martin Solomon
Michaels, Abraham
Milcovich, Martin Louis

HlO
Miller, Charles August
Miller, Harry Warren
Miller, John Fred
Miller, John :{iudolph
Monasch, David
Monroe, Charles Adams
Moore, Thomas
Morehouse, Chris Columbus
Morris, Edward Hart
Morris, Herman
Morrow, Almond Raleigh, P. M.
Morehead, John White
Mouser, Silas Mercer
Mowbray, Robert Henry
Muirheau, Thomas
Mullen; Edwin Thomas
Mundt, Francis Augustus
Munroe, Thomas William
Murray, Robert Henderson
Nansen, Peter Nielsen
Nash, William Joseph
Nathan, Bernard
Nelson, John Loining
Nevin, John Henry
Newbauer, Herman Wolf
Nicol, Alexander
Nicol, William
Nield, John Detlifson
Nodder, William John
Noonan, Lawrence Edward
Norden, August
Oberfeld, Charles, Jr.
Obermeyer, Tons Frederi.ik A.
Odgers, Wil~iam Henry
Offer, Charles
Olinslty, Nathan
Ormsby, George Oliver
Pague, Frank Culver
Parle, Michael Charles
Parsons, Charles Bird
Peiser, Solomon (1)
Peiser, Solomon (2)
Penhallow DeBlois Pearce
Penlington, George, P. M.
Penlington, Thomas, P. M.

ROSTER.
Perine, George Mairs, G. M.
Perry, Victor Elmo
Peterson, John Cigord
Peterson, Julius Caesar
Phillips, Louis Albert
Pidwel~, Cyril Trevosso
Pippey, Robert Norman
Plato, George Jacob
Pomin, George Joachin
Posner, Alva Max
Posner, Max
Price, Ephraim William
Qualman, Frederick Henry
Quinlin, William Giles
Rabjohn, Thomas Henry
Rae, William
Raymond, George Henry
Reeves, Sydney Richard
Reid, John
Reiter, Victor Matthew
Reppey, James Washington, P. M.
Rich, Arthur Milton
Richards, Charles West
Rink, Louis
Robbins, Frederick Averill
Roberts, August Henry
Roberts, Thomas
Rosenblatt, Arthur Stern
Rosenblatt, Irving Stern
Rosenthal, Maurice
Ross, Andrew
Ross, David Adam
Roth, Herman
Sachs, Edgar David
Samuels, Jacob
Sargent, William
Scheeline, Edwin
Schlesinger, Charles
Schmit, Henry
'Schneider, Joseph
Schoenberg, Henry
Schoenfeld, Alexander
Schutte, John Henry
Schwartz, Morris
Schwartze, Karl Gustav

ROSTER.

•

Schwerin, Edward
Schwormstede, Diedrick Wilhelm
Scott, Albert Woodburn
'Searey, John Joseph
Selig, Arthur Edwin
Seller, Sanford Elkan
Sewell, Amos Fuller
Sharp, William John
Shaw, Henry
Shaw, Lionel Solomon
Sheideman, Bahr
Simpson, Frederick Ernest H.
Sernborg, Nils Hilding
Slack, Ernest Simpson
Smallbones, James
Smith, Louis John
Smith, William Isaac
Speier, Bernard
Speier, Henry
Speier, Leon
Speyer, Walter Morris
Spiro, . Michael
Springer, Elias
Sproston, Frank
Stackpole, Frank Harvey
Stanton, Andrew Palmer
Stern, Moses Milo
Stevenson, Thomas
Stich, Benjamin Mitchell
Stidger, Oliver P erry
Stiver, Arthur Gus
Stratton, Wallace Clinton
Sundelius, Severns
Sussman, Samuel
Sykes, Thomas Rutledge
Taussig, Hugo Aloia
Taussig, Rudolph Julius
Tedlie, James Hamilton
Terry, John Colman
Terry, Joseph Tripp
Thayer, Charles Clayborn
Thompson, Edward Mealing
Thompson, George Forbes
Thompson, Henry

191

Tonn, Adolph
Toplitz, Robert Louis
Trask, Jesse Wall
Troppmann, Charles Martin
Trotter, John Stewart
Tschauner, Charles Lewis
•i·uckey, Bertram
'fuckey, Harry William
Turpin, Andrew \\' alker, P. M.
Turpin, Frederick Light
Tuttle, John
· Urquhart, John Ferguson
Vagts, John David
Van Aredale, John Rutherford
Von Werthron, Joseph
Wagner, Theodore
Wallace, John William
Walkington, John Henry
Walter, Herbert David
Ward, William Braddon
Warnock, William Henry
Watterson, George Thon>pson
Waugh, Samuel James
Waukowski, William
Weil, Alexander William
Weil, Moise
Weisel, Charles
Weisel, George Gustav Henry
Weiss Philip
Weisskoft, Samuel
W ertsch, Herman
West, Ernest Leonard
White, Robert Horace
Whitten, James
Wilhelmy, Max
Williams, Daniel A.
Williams, John W.
Wilson, Frederick Green .
Woerner, Frederick William
Wolf, Emanuel Myron
Wood, Benjamin Russell
Wood, Louis
Young, Arthur Lansing
Zeinansky, Samuel, P. M.
---510

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

192

WITHDRAWN:
Eells, Alexander Grimes
Harris, Marcus
Lowenthal, Morris S.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Pearce, William David
Austin, Sampson
Classen, Henry
Conroy, Eugene Chester
Cook, John Graham
Daniel, William Lyon
Dibble, William Stow
Gorie, James

DIED:
McCormick, William
McDonald, John Henry
Samuels, David
Sanderson, James J.
Simon, Joseph
Stark, William Alexander
Thom, Alexander
Toelken, Herman

CROCKETT LODGE, Nq. 139.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Albert Percy Heise, Master,
Conrad Teigler, Senior Deacon,
James 0. L. Brunswig, Sen. Wardet1, George Henry Moulton, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Wm. Maass, Junior Warden, Henry Tobias Grieb, Marshal,
Wm. Marcus Glindemann, Treas., Hugh McBirney, Steward,
Richard H . McPherson, Secretary, Hugh John Lloyd, Steward,
Carsten Hildebrandt, Tyler.
MEI.1.BERS:
Adamsen, David
Adolphson, Gustav Adolph
Alpers, Claus
Andersen, Martin
Anderson, Aren
Anderson, Charles Oscar
Aufindsen, Bernhart
Atthowe, William Charles
·Baetze, John Peter
Baker, Robert Thomas
Barthold, Albert Theodore
Bartlett, Edward Phelps
Barton, Robert George

Beach, Harry
Beaston, Jeremiah B.
Bechtel, George William
Becker, Adolph Cornelius
Benelect, Emil
Berendes, Carl Joseph
Bertelson, Peder Beier
Bitzer, Jerome E.
Bivins, Walter Thomas
Blaine, Robert James
Blumenthal, Albert
Boesen, Hans Christian B.
Bollen, James Walter

·Borek, Leopold Julius
Brady, Thomas Washington
Brandemann, Carsten Otto
Brasch, Samuel Lewis
Brasting, Constantine W.
Braun, George
Broman, Albert
Brophy, James William
Brugge, Edward Gustav
Brunswig, James Oscar Ludwig
Bruse, Bernard Frederick
Brutt, John Christian
Burkhardt, Edward George A.
Burnett, Richard James
Burnham, George Ellsworth
Butt, Peter William
Buttner, Frederick Harrold
Cahen, Solomon
Caley, John
Cameron, Howard McDougall
Carroll, Charles Carrollton
Castagna, Frank
Cattermole, Charles Henry
Cattermole, John Luder W.
Cavill, Sydney St. Lawr.ence
Cellarius, Charles, P. M.
Cellarius, Frederick August
Chambers, George William
Chase, Harry Fitzwilliam, P. M.
Christiansen, Jacob
, Ciprico, Edmund Samuel, P. M.
Clark, Albert Henry
Clute, Alva Baker
Connelly, James Anthony
Conroy, George Stephen
Corder, William Arthur
Corkill, Joseph Albert .
Cosgrove, John Francis
Court, John Pearce, P. M.
Cox, Richard
Crease, Frank Hazen
Dallamore, George Charles
Dennis, Robert Walter
Diercks, Hermann
Dietz, Frank Edwin
13

Dippel, Henry
Dunn, .Tames Henry
Ethier, Louis Napoleon
Evans, David John
Faber, Johan Frederick
Fee, Harry Ring
Feldermann, John Diedrich
Fick, Nicholas
Fisher, Charles Morris
Flathmann, Claus
Flathmann, J. H. Martin
Flathmann, William Claus
Fluegel, Emil F . Christian
Frahm, George Edwin
Frank, Arthur Henry
Frankenberg, Nathan
Fredrichs, Claus Detlief H.
Frisken, James
Fry, Thomas
Furey, Walls McClure
Gardiner, Arthur McKenzie
Geauque, George Wash., P. M.
Gerdan, Walter Julius
(!lahn, Rother
Glindemann, William Markus
Goldsmith, Albert Simon
Gould, Edwin Carter
Grant, John
Grieb, Henry Tobias
Gries, Frederick August
Griswold, William Henry
Grupe, Henry Gilmore
Gullixson, Emil Sophus
.Hagerup, Charles S. C. A.
Hamilton, F!ank Thomas
Hanselman, Andrew
Hansen, Claus Christian
Hansen, Felix Amandus D.
Hansmann, Frederick
Hanson, Per Alfred
Harder, Peter
Harder, Walter Gustave
Hart, George Edward
Hayes, Henry Lawrence
Heins, Adolrh Friederich

194
Heise, Albert Percy
Heise, John Diedrich
Herbst, Charles Lincoln
Hilderbrandt, Carsten, P. M.
Hoadley, Milo
Hoflich, Max
Hofman, Elias
Hofman, Isaac L.
Hohmann, August Henry
Holloway, Charles Marion
Holmes, Joseph Earl
Holton, Charles Roscoe
Horstmeyer, Frederick
Huber, Adolph
Huber, Hermann
Hughes, David
Hughes, John Hugh
Humbert, William Edward
Hunt, Charles William
Hunt, John Edward
Ingram, Robert
Jackson, Charles
Jacobsen, Halvor Julius T.
Jessen, Niels
Johnson, Axel Fridolf
.Johnson, Frederick
Jones, Edward N.
Jungblut, Otto August
Kahn, William, P. M.
Keck, Frederick Charles
Kirkwood, Alexander Macfarlane
Knerr Claire Frank
Knust, Henry
Koeberer, Theophilus Carl
Laughton, James
Larrison, Sllymour
Leary, Thomas Cox
Lehrke, Albert Wendell
Lehrke, Gustav Frederick
Lester, Henry Charles
Lewin, Peter
Lewis, John Walter
Lippert, Leonard B.
Llewellyn, Reece
Lloyd, Hugh John

ROSTER.
Loewe, William George
Lowe, John Hall
Lutz, William Henry
Maass, Henry William
Mackillop, Archibald
Mann, Gustav
Mansie, William
McBirney, Hugh
McCann, Richard
Mccorkell, James Alexander
McCluskey, John
Mccreadie, Abraham Peter
McFarlan, Frederick K . Perry
McKay, Alexander
McLaughlin, Armour
McNeill, William Webster
McPherson, Richard Hassard
Mehrtens, Richard
Meinhard, Theo, Henry Jacob Louis
Mengel, Otto Henry
Mergen, Mathew Bernard
Meyers, Robert Charles, P. M.
Miller, Frederick Hermann Carl
Moffat, James
Mohr, Ernest August
Moore, George Alexander
Morris, George Washington
Moulton, George Henry
Muller, Heinrich
Muller, Peter Henry
Murken, Albert Henry
Murray, Duncan Stuart
Nachbar, Freilerick William
Nelson, Evald
Newell, James Thomas
Newho:lf, Harry, P. M.
Nichols, Thomas Henry
Nicolaysen, Frank
Norby, John A.
North, John Gunder
Oberfeld, Charles
0 'Brien, William Thomas
Olsen, Lars Emil
· Olsen, Martin Christian
Olsen, Olaf

ROSTER.

4

•

Palmer, Albert
Palmer, Edward
Pankow, Hermann
Parker, Thomas Beede
Partridge, Clifton Clark
Patterson, John Charles
Pattison, George
'· Paulsen, Oscar. Francis
Paulsen, Reinhold Johan
Peach, Theodore Frederick Charles
Pein, George Heinrich
Pein, John Henry
Perle, Charles W. Frederick
Perle, Johan Friedrich
Peters, John
Petersen, Christian Herman F.
Petersen, Hans Peter
Peterson, Charles
Peterson, Edward Peter
Peterson, Gust av
Peterson, Henry Clarence
Peyser, Harry Michael
Phipps, Charles
Picard, Charles
Plagemann, Frederick Peter
Pockwitz, Adolph Augustus
Pockwitz, Leopold
Porter, William
Pramme, Henry, Jr.
Preddey, Sydney Lawson
Price, Evan John
Preston, Walton
Rackerby, John James
Rasmussen, Hans Lauston
Rathjens, Peter Ferdinand
Read, George
Rehmann, Charles William
Renner, Jean
Richardson, Nicholas Joseph
Righetti, Henry A.
Rithmoeller, Henry
Roberts, Joshua Benjamin, P. M.
Robinson, Henry Goland
Roeder, William Frederick
Roesch, Louis

Ross, Harry Bellsland
Rowlands, Thomas, P. M.
Reuben, John Bernarcl
Sachau, August Henry Thco1lore
Salter, Alson Crawford
Salter, Frederick Whitcomb
Schie.s inger, Charles
Schmid, John
Schmidt, Herman Christian
Schmidt, John Hinrich
Schmidt, Louis
Schomer, George
Schomer, Henry
Schottler, Hermann
Schroder, H erbert D.
Schulz, George Edward Theodore
Schwab, Henry Frederick
Schwarz, Gustav
Seaman, George Walter
Segesser, John Ubrich
Shaw, William Herma'nn
Sheffer, Clarence Edmun(l
Simon, Philip •
Soomann, Johan Joachim T.
Spencer, Gardner Alex. Brody
Stager, William Ernest
Stange, John Ernest William
Stanle, Frederick Henry
Stemley, Charles
Stanton, L ewis Edgar
Stein, William Fr£·derick
Stephens, Luther Cox
Stevens, Bernard Archibald
Stradling, Lafayette Ferdinand
Strycker, Charles
Strauch, Paul
Stussy, Henry David
Suttmah, Frederick Parker
Swanson, John Paulin
Taaffe, Christian Frederick B.
Teigeler, Conrad
Ten Winkel, Frank William
Thierbach, Charles Frederick
Thomas, Bertran~ McNulty
Thomas, Robert Humphreys

HJ5

ROSTER.

196
Thornley, William Henry
Trask, Joseph Clement
Ungermann, Gustav John C.
Vock, Simon
Volkmann, Alexander William
Vollstadt, Frederick
Yonder, Lieth Harold Otto
Voss, Harry David
Waldron, Jerome Bonaparte
Wambach, George
Ward, James William
Watson, Ambrose Alexander
Watts, Herbert Charles
Webber, Charles
Weber, Richard Franklin

Weiss, Frank John
Weiss, Robert Nathaniel
Wells, John Augustus
White, Edward Harris
Wieneke, Robert
Wilcox, Alfred Ernest
Wolf, Reuben Augustus
Wolters, John Bernard
Wood, Albert Charles
Wreden, Hlmry
Young, Royal Burr
Zapf, Charles Frederick
Zaun, Henry
Zeiss, Otto John
Zimmerman, Louis Michael

ROSTER.

-326

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Beach, Marcus Hicks
Keen, William Arthur
Bengtson, Sven
Leonar.d, Edward Joseph
Bowdich, Richard William
McCracken, Arthur
Dhelig, Alfred John
McKarley, Edward
Eide, Charles August
Metzler, Hermann
Johnson, William Orville
/Twomey, James
DIED:
Campo, George Lafayette
Heidenreich, Rudolph C. M.
Hill, Thomas

Thierbach, Louis M.
Tilden, Heber Nutter
Wolters, John Diedrich

MEMBERS:
Allman, Joseph Peter
Kleiser, James A., P. M.
Allegrinni, Guilo
Kleiser, George W.
Baer, George Baker, P. M.
Kleiser, James Albert
Brown, George
Kleiser, Joseph Henry
Brush, William Thomas
Kussic, George
Brush, Fred Walker
Lamb, Francis Marion
Caldwell, John William
Martin, Carl Henry
Caldwell, William Beatty
Marinkovitch, Antone
Cauch, Frank R.
Merritt, Frank K.
C.offey, Clayton T.
Moore, Harley LaVerne
Cooley, Edward Arthur, P. M.
Netherton, William B.
Coe, George Washington
Perrazzo, Joseph
Conner, Frederick Pope
Perrazzo, Victor
Dixon, Eugene Frank
Pinschower, Simon
Doty, William Edward
Reed, Jeremiah
Domine, Henry Fred
Reed, John
Field, John
Robb, James
Gillespie, William Edward
Sedgley, Charles Loring
Goetzelman, John, P. M.
Shelford, Peter L.
Green, Robert F.
'l'hompson, Ernest B., P. M.
Guldager, George Madison
Thomas, Richard H.
Hagmayer, Guadaloupe
Trim, Robert
Hall, John Henry
Ward, James Abram
Harris, Charles William
Warren, George F.
Hollopeter, Ellis Edward
Weston, George
Hood, George
Williams, Oliver Clayton
Hulbert, Robert H .
Wilson, Thomas Beggs
Humbert, Charles Emilie, P. M.
Yordi, Frank Arthur

CURTIS LODGE, No. 140.

GRAFTON LODGE, No. 14r.

Cloverdale, Sonoma County.

Grafton, Yolo County.

Stated M.e etings, Saturday of or next preceding Ful! Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or n ext preceding Ful' Moon.

OFFICERS:

Charles Loring Sedgley, Master,
Jeremiah M. Reed, Senior Warden,
William B." Caldwell, Junior Warden,
Simon Pinschower, Treasurer,
Thomas B. Wilson; Secretary.

197

-56

OFFICERS:

Albertis Ki merer, Master,
Isaac Jefferson Ely, Senior Deacon,
Leonard Fritz, Senior Warden,
Carl Kimerer, Junior Deacon,
Francis Eugene McCune, Jun. War., William McLain, Marshal,
Loyd Nelson Tabler, Treasurer,
Homer . Lester Peart, Steward,
George Clark Peart, S ecretary,
W. Webster McGrath, Steward,
Barkley Gilbert Peart, Tyler.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

198

Bell, William S.
Cope, Clarence
Crane, Donald
Dixon, Thomas Harry, P. M.
Eakle, Quintus Vernile
Ely, Isaac Jefferson, P. M.
Fitch, Edward Lowell
Fritz, Leonard, P. M.
Goettsch, Peter, P. M.
Huber, John Boardman
Kier, Henry McBride
Kimerer, Alberti.s, P. M.
Kimerer, Carl
Leathers, John Abner

MEMBERS:
Leathers, Robert Scott H., P. M.
McCune, Francis Eugene
McClintock, James H.
McClintock, William Wirt
McGrath, U. Webster
McGarth, Carroll S.
McLane, William
Peart, Barkley Gilbert, P. M.
Peart, George Clark, P. M.
P eart, Homer Lester, P. M.
Showball, Henry Havelock
Tabler, Lloyd Nelson
Thompson, Benjamin Franklin-27

FRANKLIN LODGE, No. 143·

Isham, Murray.Leo
Johnston, William Alex., P. M.
Jacobs, Fran.cis Henry
Jongeneel, Martin
Kercheval,' Howard Douglas, P. M.
Kesner, Wilfred Clark
King, Azariah Judson
Lindsay, William Kincade
Laborde, John Sylvester
Martin, Abel Heald
McCullough, George
McQueen, Niel Campbell
Nelson, Jacob
;Nichols, Will Harrison
Osborn, David Horace
Phillips, Abner Coombs

199

Reynolds Alfred Tho. James, P. M.
Roberts, Edward
Runyon, Harry Armstead
Runyon, Armstead
Schnabel, Carl Kenneth
Scriber, George Washington
Smith, Joseph, T. C.,
Smith, William James, l'. M.
Steph'enson, Oscar
Thisby, George
Thisby, Robert Francis
Thisby, Leonard Charles
Thisby, William John
van Lobensels Mauritz C. A.
Wehr, William Henry
-59

DIED:
Radgesky, Louis David

Courtland, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Peter Jacob Huth, Master,
Bickman Boyd Green, Senior Deacon,
Howard D. Kercheval, Sen. Ward., Armstead Runyon, Junior Deacon,
Joseph Henry Hyde, Junior Warden, Miles Robert Dean, Marshal,
Henry Franklin Isham, Treasurer,
Russell. Julian Coggshall, Steward,
Charles Ernest Bunnell, Secretary, John Sylvester Laborde, Steward,
Harrison Span Ivey, Chaplain,
Arthur Edison Greene, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arrasmith, Vernon
Green, Peter B., P. M.
Bauer, Charles Emilie
Green, Ulmer
Bell, William Thomas
Green, Beckman Boyd
Billups, Lewis Cass
Greene, Arthur Edison
Bishop, Nathan Elmer
Greene, George Albert
Bunnell, Charles.Ernest, P. M.
Hechtman, Albert John
Coggshall, Russel Julian
Hinsdale, Lester Jesse
Cornish, George Franklin
Hinsdale, Seymour Sidney
Dean, Willi.am Henry
Hollister, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Dc·an, Miles Robert, P. M.
Huth, Peter Jacob
Dean, Thomas Webster, P. M.
Hutto}l, William Mathew
Deback, John August
Hyde, Joseph Henry, P. M.
Ellis, Henry Herbert M.
Ivey, Harrison Span, P. M.
Fallman, Louis Helmer
Isham, Henry Franklin

ORIENTAL LODGE, No. 144·
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Robert Ruddy Moody, Master,
Herbert Morgan Jeffreys, Sen. Dea.,
Armand Eugene Briggs, Sen. Ward., Olin Lamar Berry, Junior Deacon,
Frank Chapman Martin, Jun. Ward., William Silas Hamilton, Marshal,
Geo. Howard Thompson, Treasurer. George Bradbury Lake, Steward,
Adolphus Skinner Hubbard, Sect'y., John Henry W. Husing, Steward,
Samuel James Lee, Chaplain,
Elmer Duncan Roach, Tyler.
Alberti, George Frederick
Alden, Bertram Francis
Anderson, Alfred Eric
Angus, James Stewart
Ashley, Julian Woods
Baker, George Washington
Balcom, Wells Estee
Baldwin, Alfred Walton
Baldwin, George Porter
Barry, Edward

MEMBERS:
Bauer, Hamilton A very
Beal, John Frederick Robert
Beck, Francis Edwin
Beede, David Harris
Belfrage, William Ferdinand
Bell, John, P. M.
Berry, Olin Lamar
Boldemann, Adolph Charles
Boldemann, Charles Adolph
Boldemann, Oscar

200
Bone, Charles, P. M.
Bourke, James Edward
Bourke, William Henry
Bonefield, Frederick Henry
Bowes, Edward Chipman
Boyd, David Wilson
Boyd, Samuel Alexander
Boye, Otto Henry
Boyes, James
Boyes, Robert
Branch, Royal Daniel
Brickell,. John Clinton
Briggs, Armand Eugene
Brisco, William Mo.u nsey
Brown, Carl Grover
Brown, Grafton Tyler
Buckley, John Paul
Buhlinger, William Frederick
Burgren, Albert William
Buhrmeister, Henry Franklin
Burnett, George Watson
Burr, Percy Lott
Campbell, Walter Chauncey
Campbel!-, Wm. Robert Lee, P. M.
Carlson, Charles Joseph
Castle, Stephen
Chapman, William Henry
Chatfield, George Frederick
Chipperfield, Alfred Edward
Clark, Benjamin
Clute, John Foster
Cofran, John William Gunnison
Conner, William Edward
Cook, Jay Bruce
Craig, William Berry
Crooks, George Bates
Crowell, Frederick William
Crowell, Walter Harding
Crowley, Timothy Joseph, P. M.
Cubery, William McBurney
.
'-'.:
Cutten, Edward Logan
Daniel, J ehn
Danly, Marion Price
Davis, Norris King
Davidson, Arthur Edwin

ROSTER.
Davies, Llewellyn ,
deBretteville, Pierre Alex. LeN.
Deichmiller, Conrad
Dettmann, Fritz, Ludwig
Diggs, Henry William
Dobie, Clarence Walker, P . M.
Dolliver, John Walter
Dornin, Nelson Edgar
Douglas, Ernest Campbell
Drew, Charles Fauver
Driffi.eld, Vero Carus
Dubois, Henry Poorman
Duke, Robert D'ouglas
Dunckel, Ira Titus Chapin
Durbrow, Ross Lewis
Dyer, Walter John
Eagleson, John Geddes
Eichorn, Hilmar August
Elfendahl, Victor Hugo
Ellinghouse, Oscar
Elliott, Samuel Roy
;Ellis, Henry Cromwell
Ellis, Henry Hiram
Erlin, John Theodore
Estes, Herbert McKenzie
Fickett, James Everett
Fishbeck, Louis
Fitzhugh, William McPherson
Foster, Arthur William
Foster, Lyman Dickerman
Fowler, George Andrew
Fowler, Thaddeus William
France, Robert Lee
Frank, Henry William
Fuller, William Henry
Gale, Herbert Alonzo
Gebhardt, Charles George
Gerhardt, Peter Clarence
Gibbons, Lewis Alberto
Gibson, Owen Lockha:rt
Gibson, Walter D. Kirkaldy
Gilchrist, William, P. M.
Gillespie, Albe.rt Edward
GoedjE:, Harry August
Goodwin, James Albert

ROSTER.

4

•

Gordon, James ;J<Jdward
Graham, Harry Irvine
Grant, Thomas Chamberlin
Grauerholz, Henry John
Gray, John Hatfield, P. M.
Green, Adam Treadwell
Gregg,. Harry Blackburn
Gregory, Edward
Habenicht, George Nichols
Habenicht, Rudolph
Hamilton, William Silas
Hammond, John Hays
Hanna, George Baum
Hardie, Frank Diedrich
Harrison, William Greer
Hawkins, James Shook
Hawks, James Lawrence, P. M.
Hedger, Leslie Arthur
Hendry, George William
Henshall, Richard Percy
Heuer, William Henry
Hicks, Oscar P enn, P . M.
Hilbert, Christian Henry
Hobro, William Dovey
Hodge, Robert, P. M.
Holcombe, Royal Arthur
Hooper, George Warren
Hopkins, Timothy
Hotaling, Richard M.
Houghton, Edward Payson
Hovey, Richard Hoffman
Holmes, Fred Elijah
Howard, Oliver Marshall
Howell, John Short
Hubbard, Adolphus Skinner
Hughes, Frederick Summerfield
Huie, Edward Mercer
Huie, Wm. Henry Thompson
Hume, Herbert
Hume, John Scotchler
Hume, Joseph Wadhams
Hume, Robert Deniston
Hunkin, Samuel Johns
Hunter, John Valpey
Husing, John Henry William

Hutchinson, Ely Israel, P. M.
Hyde, Richard Etting
Ils, John George
Imhof, Henry Francis
Jackson, Alden W.
Jacobsen, Henry
Jaegeling, Julius Philip
Jeffreys, Herbert Morgan
J ennings, Edward B.
Jewell, Richard Cornelius, P. M.
,Johnson, Roger
Johnston, Samuel Perry
Jost, Charles, Sr.
Jost, George Willis
Jost, Joseph
Jost, William Rheinhard, P. M.
Josselyn, Charles
Keith, Herbert Bayly
Kibbler, William Thomas
Kip, James
Klein, Joseph
Kleinhans Albert
Knight, Charles Edwin
Koenig, Edward George
Labatt, Charles Bagot
Ladd, Frank Bacon, P. M.
Lake, .George Bradbury
Landers, William John, P. M.
Lang, Albert George
Lawton, George Ernest
Lee, Samuel James
Levensaler, James Adams
Lillard, Markwell
Lindsay, Matthew John
Lloyd, Fred Brochwel
Lloyd, Reuben Hedley, P. M.
Lotz, Augustus
Mackenzie, Charles Alex.
MacMullen, James
Mann, Clarence Martin
Marcus, Morris
Martin, Frank Chapman
Mathews, Henry Edward
Matheson, Kenneth
Mauzy, Byron

201

!?02

McCutchen, Edward Johnson
McGinnes, Robert Tooms
McKenzie, Elmer Ellsworth
McLaughlin, William Francis
McPherson, Edward Butler
Merry, William Laurence
Metzner, Charles Francis
Meussdor:tfer, John Charles
Milestone, William Hebden
Milligan, Robert
Mitchell, Albert Jerome
Montague, Wilfred Weed
Moody, Robert Roddy
Morffew, Thomas
Morgan, Frederick Charles
Morris, Daniel Edward
Morrow, Robert Head
Morrow, William W.
Morton, Raymond Albert
Muller, Henry Gustave
Murphy, Samuel Greene
Myrick, Milton Hills, P. M.
Nauman, Clarence Charles
Nauman, Howard Arthur
Nelson, Arthur Selby
Newhall, Edwin White, P. M.
Newhall, William Mayo
Nichols. Thomas Henry
Nuttall, John Robert Kennedy
Onyon, Richard Toppin
Parrish, Ellis Howard
Parsons, James Allen
Partridge, Edward Brig_gs
Partridge, Edward Briggs, Jr.
Partridge, John
Peel, Jonathan Morffew
Pennell, Henry Edward, P. M.
Pennell, Thomas Mead
Perry, John Melvin
Pierson, Fred Howard
Pike, Charles William
Pinkstone, Arthur John
Pitchford, John Benjamin
Plattner, Eugene Lester
Poheim, Joseph Francis

ROSTER.
Poindexter, Theodore
Polk, James Knox
Pool, William Worth
Pryor, Alfred Edmund
Puckhaber, Charles Richard
Radke, August Hermann·
Radke, Richard Lawrence
Rail, Eugene Benton
Ralston, William Chapman
Randall, Clement
Randall, Samuel Bunker
Randall, William Morse
Reddington, Alfred Poett
Reid, James Steele
Remensperger, William Alex.
Ringressy, Albert Preston
Rising, Alfred Hunt
Roberts, Alfred Edward
Robinson, Cornelius Preston, P. M.
Robinson, Leighton Charles Powell
Roebke, Fred Carl, Jr.
Rosie, Walter
Ross, Thomas Paterson
Roach, Elmer Duncan
Rowell, Leonard Gifford
Scherr, John Frederick
Schmidt, Frederick
Schmitt, Joseph William
Schneider, Edward Willia·m
Schoning, Otto Alvin
Schohay, Albert John
Scott, Ebenezer
Seelig, George
Selfridge, James' Russell
Seyler, Charles, Jr.
Siebe, George Henry
Simpson, Waldie James
Sloan, Clarence Barstow
Sloane, Charles Francis
Smith, Edward Bruce
Smith, Harry Burt, Jr.
Smith, Henry Julian
Smith, Henry Sydney
Smith, Isaac Lincoln
Smith, James Coleman

ROSTER.
Smith, Lewis Warren
Somers, Howard
Spader, Charles Thoms
Sprague, Peter Tiburco
Spreckels, John Diedrich
Steele, Daniel Lucas
Stillman, Charles
Stoddard, Augul!tus Wynne
Stokes, Frederick Robert
Stoll, Albert George
Stroh, George Noyes
Swain, Clarkson
Swan, Benjamin Ralph
Swanson, Al-ex.
Suydam, Charles Henry
Tallant, Frederick William
Templeman, Henry
Therkof, Gustave Henry
Thompson, George Howard, P. M.
Thompson, Thomas Larkin
Thomson, Stuart Coventry
Tonningsen, John, P. M.
Troutt, James Morris, P. M.
Van Ness, Arthur W.
Van Norden, Rudolph Warner
Veen, Frank Joseph

Von Rhe.in, Frank Lincoln
Voorman, Henry Augustus
Wadsworth, John Joseph
Wallace, James Hargraves
Ward, John Thomas
Ward, William Douglas
Warner, Charles Hutchinson
Washburne, Lynde Arthur
Watkins, Alonzo Augustus
Wells, Albert Ackley
WP.lls, Norton Chamberlin
Westda.hl, Ferdinand,P. M.
Westdahl, Ferdinand Wishy
Wetherby, Wallace Tappan
.W helan, William Augustus
White, Charles Chesley
Whitehead, Ernest
Wieland, Emil John
Wiel'l.and, L-eopold David
Willits, Charles Davis
Williams, Charles
Wilson, John CharlP.s
Windeler, Henry Frederick
Wood, Abraham
Woolsey, Chester Howartl
Younger, William John

WITHDRAWN:
McCarthy, William G.
Hathaway, Charles Fredericlt
Winsor, Charles Launet
Knox, Newton Booth
Wright, William Chander
DIED:

•

BasstJtt, Charles Follrn
Lundquist, Edward Charles
Newhall, Walter S. (F. C.)

203

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

VITRUVIUS LODGE, No. 145.

ABELL LODGE, No. 146.

Bloomfield, Sonoma County.

Ukiah, Mendocino Count~.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturd~y of or next preceding Full .M oon.

20!

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Charles McFerson Mannon, Master, Florine Eric Anker, Senior Deacon
Louis Peter Anker, Senior Warden, William Bromley, Junior Deacon,'
Bertram Leon Cleland, Jun. Warden, Edwin Gains Case; Marshal,
James Robert Mathews, Treasurer, James Holliday Crothers, Steward,
Geo. Pressley Anderson, Secretary, Frank Thomas Barker, Steward,
William Henry Chessall, Tyler.

Ira Berry Harvey, Master,
Russell Smith, Senior Deacon,
vVm. Harrison Cornett, Sen. Ward., Epi Morganti, Junior .Deacon,
Harry Stocking Levens, Jun. Ward., Oscar Collister, Marshal,
Harrison M. LeBaron, Treasurer, Alvin David Hopkins, Steward,
William N. Cunningham, Secretary, Warren W . Freeman, Steward,
Commodore Perry Smith, Chaplain, John Conrad Stump, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bailey, Louis Clark
Bianchini, Augostino
Bonaiti, Achelle
Caughey, James Francis
Coporgno, Virgil
Collister, Oscar, P. M.
Collister, Santey William
Cockrill, Bruce Travis
Cockrill, William Aaron
Cornett, William Henry
Cunningham, William N assan
Dickinson, Leon
Duncan, Thomas Jefferson
Eastman, Gustave
Freeman, Warren W.
Gouldager, Hans
Galehouse, Frank Clark
Gaver, Andrew Poe
Hakes, Dorr
Hall, William Parker
Harvey, Ira Berry, p; M .
Herbert, William Henry
Hinshaw, John David, P. M.
Hopkins, Albon David
Jinkines, James Hall, P. M .
Jones, Carroll Patrick

Jones, Walter
King, James
Kowalsky, Henry Isaac
Kowalsky, Joseph N.
Larsen, Rasmus Gergen
Laufenberg, Michael Ney
LeBaron, Harrison Melvin, P. M.
LeBaron, Chauncey Ai;.thur
Levens, Harry Stocking ·
Lefebvre, Oliver Maximillian
Linebaugh, William Abraham
Morganti Epi
Oliver, John Salton, P. M.
Pellascio, Miglio John
Reinoehl, Charles Henry
Robertson, John
Sartori, Ignazio
Seaman, E. A.
Smith, Commodore perry
Smith, Russell
Steele, David
Steele, Thomas John
Stump, John Conrad
Stillwell, Valencourt
Williams, Charles Celey
Winn, Albert Clark, P. M.
-52
DIED:
Parker, Alva

205

•

•

MEMRF.RS·
Abraham, Louis
Douglas, Roy Horton
Allen, Frederick Emerson
Eversole, John Walter, P. M.
Anderson, George Presley
Ewert, Alfred Henry
Anker, Florine Eric
Fairbanks, Mandal Whipple
Anker, Louis Peter
Finne, William
Anker, Niel, P. M.
l<'inne, Fred
Babcock, Lyman Wilbert, P. M.
. Flaherty, George Jay
Baily, Washington Irving, P. M.
Forse, William Henry
Banks, Robert William
Frehe, Alfred Lewis
Barker, Frank Thomas
Gannett, Joseph
Barker, John Henry, P. M.
Ganter, Clarence Franklin
Berryhill, Joseph Tanner
Ganter, Clinton Everett
Bolm, George Hermansen
Gowell, Charles Alfred
Bond, Thomas Benjamin,°P. M.
Grover, Isaac Wilson
Bradley, George Felix
Handy, Fred Clark, P. M.
Branscomb, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Handy, Percy West
Bromley, William
Held, William Daniel Louis
Carothers, Thomas Langley, P. M. Hendrix, Jay Ward
Carothers, James Holiday
Hirsch, B enort Samuel
Case, Edwin Gains, P . M.
Hirsch, Maurice, P. M.
Cerf, Aaron
Hoag, Leslie
Charlton, Thomas
Hofman, Charles
Chessall, William Henry, P. M.
Holliday, Stonewall Jackson
Cleland, Thomas Montana, P. M.
Hopkins, Charles Blodgei;
Cleland, Bertram Leon
Howard, William Harper
Conry, Clarence Albert
Hutchison, Robert Lee, P. M.
Cunningham, Charles, P. M.
Johnson, Louis
Cunningham, Wm. Watkins, P. M . Kellen, Orvelle Warren
Diddle, John Franklin
Kilbourn, William Vincent
Dickinson, Almer Edwin
King, Edward Warren, P. M .
Donohoe, Robert Emmett
Lance, Goodman Harvey

ROSTER.

20~

Langren, August
Layton, Frank Burton
Mannon, James Milton, ~r., P. M.
Mannon, James Milton, Jr.
Mannon, Charles McFerson
Mathews, James Robert
Matthews, Charles William
Markle, Robert Bruce
McClure, Arthur Bedford
Mccowen, George, P. M.
Mccowen, Hale, P. M.
McCracken, Joseph Leslie
McGarvey, Robert
Montague, Lemuel Davis
Morris, Harry
Mosley, Oscar John
Mulcahy, David
Orr, James Henderson, Jr.
Orr, James Henry
Orr, Samuel Murry
Paxton, Samuel Dihel
Poage, William Gustavus
Porterfield, William Wilson
Proudfoot, William
Rhodes, George Harold ·
Rosenberg, Samuel Louis
Roeder, Frederick Murdock
Rudee, Max

ROSTER.

Sandelin, Frank
Saunders, John Herbert
Sandman, John Jacob
Schadn, Max Alfred
Schefer, John Henry
Shinn, George Edgar
Smith, Charles Henry
Smith, Dougla.s Clair
Smith, Howard B., P. M.
Snow, John
Standley, Jeremiah M.
Stout, George Washington, P. M.
Stewart, George Duncan Bennett
Taylor, John
Thatcher, Arthur James, P. M.
Thomas, Micajah Anderson, P. M.
Thomas, James Roberd
'l'homas, William Pendleton
Thomson, Harry Adelbert
Witgenseller, Norton
Walton, Benson
Westerman, Pleasant B1Jiley
Wheeler, Samuel
Whitton, Carroll H€nry, P. M.
Wills, John Perry
Wilson, Francis Marion
Yell, Archibald, P. M.
Zimmerman, William Tell
.....:..ns

EEL RIVER LODGE, No. 147.
Rohnerville, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pr1,ceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

I
1

WITHDRAWN:
Fallas, Fred LaPere

Finley, George Columbus
DIED:

Boulon, Paul
Harbert, Lee L.

McMurry, John
Moore, William Neet
Pickle, George Washington

:1207

•
J

•

Wellington Horner Stewart, Sr. Dea.,
Robert Lee Harris, Master,
Harry Kingston Hansell, Sen. War., Chas. Fredrick Evers, Jun. Deacon,
John Armstrong Travis, Jun. War., John Melvin Connick, Marshal,
Brice Hogland McNeil, Treasurer, Harry G. Hansell, Steward,
Samuel Porter Guthrie, Steward,
Joseph Hull, Secretary,
George Wells Stone, Tyler.
Walter Thomas Fisher, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Eastman, Charles Austin, P. M.
Ellis, Clarence Eugene
Evers, Charles Frederick
F€igenbaum, Joseph
Fisher, Walter Thomas, P. M.
~'rost, Charles Baker
Frost, James Lambert
Faulkner, Eaton
Fox, Henry Davis
Fulton, Warren
Gillogly, Mathew Lee
Gray, William Daniel
Grossen, Ebbe
Guthrie, Samuel Porter
Hansell, Harry Kingston F.
Hansell, Amos, Jr.
Hansen, John Owen
Hansen, Daniel Webster
Harris, Robert Lee
Hauck, Nathan
Helmke, Frederick Martin
Herrick, George Arthur
Hiller, George
Hiller, Philip Alex.
Howard, James Bloxum
Hull, Joseph
Hubbard, James Calvert
James, Samuel Oliver
,l ohnson, William Rufus
Kay, Fred Moses

Anderson, Martin
Baku, Henry Grant
Barkdull, Joseph Carley
Beckwith, Frank Walter
Bird, James Bishop,
Bowman, Reginald Hamilton
Burgh, Louis Joseph
Bryan, William Henry, P. M.
Cady, Ernest Carlton
Callihan, Robert
Chidester, Marion, P. M.
-Clover, Philip R.
Corning, Smith Peabody
Connick, Alex. Grant
Connick, John Melvin, P. M.
Crabtree, Frank
Daie, Jeremiah
Dale, John
Dale, Harvey, P. M.
Davis, Henry Delasaux
Davis, Henry Nelson
Davis, George Oxley
Delamere, Henry Sinclair, P. M.
Dinsmore, Harold Adam
Dinsmore, Fred Andrea
Dinsmore, George Evans
Dixon, John William, P. M.
Doane, John William
Dobbyn, William Benton
Dunnigan, William Good

ROSRrnrn:

ROSTER.

208
Kelley, Thomas Lamb
Lamb, Alex. Abel
Lamb, Winfield Scott
Lane, John Alex.
Lawson, James
Long, George William
Lorning, Ernest Ballard
Luther, Frank William
Leach, Frederick Arthur
M-asson, Alexander
Maxwell, James Washington
McCord, James Clinton
McNeil, Brice Hogland, P. M.
Medcalf, John Edward H.
Milligan, Thomas
Newall, Daniel Sheldon
North, Davis Beauregard
Oliver, Frank Wright, P. M.
Orcuth, Thaddeus Adam
Perrott, Walter Louis
Porter, Edward David
Price, Benjamin Allen
Palmer, Edwin Alex.
Parkman, Clarence Edward
Plymale, Dionicius

Hiller, Benjamin Franklin

·: , .,.,L'~SSEN L~DGE,

Rowley, Charles A. E.
Runnels, Leslie
Runnels, William Edward
Ryan, John Walter, P. M.
Slingsby, James
Slingsby, George
Smith, Frederick David
Starr, Chester Thompson
Stewart, George Edwin
Stewart, Wellington Homer
Stone, George Wells
Swanger, Samuel Frederick
Travis, John Armstrong
Tuttle, Frederick Ackerman
Towzey, William John
Underwood, George
Van Sickle, Thomas
Vancil, George Washington
Weber, Martin
Weber, Michaels Nicholas
Wood, John William
Whitney, Charles Harris
W ellock, Charles Orville
Webster, Edward Warren

.If,

• T

•

:

~

·· -

209

No

149.•

'

t'

•l·

. Spsanville,~ L1issen C9up.iy.,

I?

St~te~: MeeH.~wi, . firit Saturday in ~~ch iJiP'ntiL ', · 1~
i:q :

.

J-

,

r

•

OFFICERS~ ·.:. .'": ,·

.

John Bridger Spalding, ·Master;
John Sked~ ·. Boir~t~; Se~: Dea~on1
James Augusfus.'Pardec, Sen. Ward., Ross Ebei'-B~ngharr;, Junfor·- Diacon
Fred'k Hastings1 ':Sh:inlC~, Ju,;. War.; Joseph M. Ttemiin,-Marsh~l/ · · ·'Fred Hines; Treas~r~r,
' · 'George Elliott Winchester; St~tclard:
William Stone !larris~ri, S"e_crefory; _Willis H. Davis, ~te_ward, · 1
~-~
~- Johrr Wesley Zimmerman, Tyler::
'

,.,>:·;

1 .. :,;w .;

:;qa

. - ·· l')<IEMBERS:
,.
Alexander, Jules
Emerson, Charles Ed., P. M.
Arnold, Alex. Thrall
· Enhorning, Herman Olaf
Arnold, M edford Roop
Folsom, Melville Orman
Asher, Morris
l<'ox, Albert
Baugham, Eber Gaston
'Fraser, William Walter
Baugham, Frank Heney · .
Goumaz, Philip Jacob,
Baugham, Sandusky Fred
. Gregory, A. Martin
Baugham, Ross Eber
Hall, Wright Patrick, P. M.
Bennett, Herbert Warren, P. M.
·H1tH,-·William Henry, P. M.
Blake, James Curran
Hall, Louis Davis
Borrette, John Skedg\l::
- .• ·Harrison, .w iiliam Stone
Branham, James, P. M.
Hart, .Will,iam Ralph, P. M .
.... "" ::J'
Brockman, William, P. M;' .. ·
Rines, F:r'iid ·~
H1Jnsi11ge.r, .Aiigµ~t11s-~a~sins
Bunnel!,.A-bf!l i • •
Cahlan, John, P. M.
Hurlbut, Robert Ward
Cain, Fred A.
H~, " David Campbell
Campbell, .John Elmer . ,,
.Johns!m; W:illiam Joh.n
J!Jhnston, Frank . ·.
Ca's.well, Presto~ , ·
Caughell," Charle~ ' Franciseo
Kingsbury, Edw.ard Orrin
Collins, Raym~.n~ .Ir~mphrey
· -Kn9ch,_Da'9"i!},
Cramer, Charles
KnQ!lh, l!jaa!l :
Cramer, Daniel Frid.~rick
Knudson,).Je:wi-1:1. ,
Davis, Willia~ Sntlth
~-eav~~t, Benjamin Harrison
Davis, Willis H.
Leonard, Jared G.
DeForest, Charles· Vide:ri Martin, Edward Alonzo
DeForest, Gilbert ·15dward, P. M.
Masten, John Thoinas
DeForest, Albert Eugene · · ·
· McDow, Georgil .Nefaon
•M:cKinsey, Noble Samuel
Dodge, Edmund R :) -:. ,. · ·
Easton, George Breedfng ·
'Minckler, William :Divi~
Earl, William H~ard ~ · · ·· ' , . "Mosely, Albeft Willia·ni
Emerson, Charles Thoma~·.:.:.: : .. - " !Nathan, S~lemon· · · ~' 1

18

··

-109

WITHDRAWN:
,*Keever, Edward William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brewer, Charles Henry
DIED :
Forbes, Peter
• Degrees conferred during the year .

•

14

·1

·

.... . ,"!

,,
'

ROSTER.

210
Odett, Charles Albert
Pardee, James Augustus
Pardee, Julien Eugene, :P. M.
Philbrook, Alonzo Kelley
Ramsey, Thomas Abner
Roseberry, Thomas Alex., P. M.
Rulison, Frederick Joseph
Shanks, Frederick Hastings
Sharp, William Walker •
Sifford, Alex.
Snyder, Henry
Spalding, John Bridger
Spalding,. Wilbur Fisk
Streshley, Frank D.

Talbott, Basie Homer
Thibault, Lewis
Tomb11, George Lincoln, P . M.
Tremain, Joseph Mellow
Van Loan, Elmer
Van Norden, Thomas Albert
Vogt, John Henry
Vincent, William Elmer
Ward, Franklin Millard
Williams, Joseph Billings
Wilson, Jared Morgan
Wilson, Ernest Everett
Winchester, George Elliott
Zimmerman, John William
-90

ROS'l'ER.

'

I

WITHDRAWN:
Davis, John Lassen

Cramer, Daniel, Sr.

DIED:
Masten, William Thomas
Riley, John Henry

MOLINO LODGE, No. 150.
Tehama, Te.bama County.

Clegg, Robert
Ehrlich, John
Finnell, Simpson
Golden, John Henry
Golden, Nicholas Francis
Gyle, Louis Abraham
Gyle, Sylvan Herman, P. M.
Gyle, Joseph Charles
Hall, John Edward
Houseman, John Samuel
Houseman, Robert Porterfield
Lee, William
McBride, William G.
McGuinness, Thomas, P. M.
Miller, William Wallace
Montgomery, William 'l'homas
Morrisey, Thomas Francis
Muller, John Baptist
Osborn, Jesse Mason

Peden, Albert Oliver
Pitts, Eugene Hiram
Rikert, Benjamin Frederic
Schroer, Frederick
Sellick, William Joseph
Simpson, John, P. M.
Simpson, George Charles
Smith, Matthew Allen
Stanley, Edward Charles
Stock, Joseph Ferdinand
Storrs, Edward William
Tuman, George Elmer
Tuman, Edward Whited
Tyler, Ulysses Butte
Vogelsang, George
Wanee, William Edward
Williamson, William
Worthington, John James
Zintz, Conrad Thomas

r

Griggs, Sidney Allen

DIED:
Peters<>n, Alvah

WOODLAND LODGE, No. 156.

OFFICERS:

Woodland, Yolo County.

Samuel Madison Boyd, Master,
Fred F. Anderson, .Senior Deacon,
Wm. Joseph Sellik, Senior Warden, William Edward Wanee, Jun. Deacon,
Otto Edward Asman, Jt4n. Warden, Simpson Finnell, Marshal,
George Charles Simpson, Treas•rer, Neilson Carr, Steward,
John James Worthington, Secretary, Henry Clark, Steward,
Alfred Roy Clark, Chaplain,
Charles Henry Clark, Tyler.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MEMBERS:
Bratten, John Michael
Britt, George Leroy
Carr, Nielson
Chamberlain, Joseph
Clark, Alfred Roy
Clark, Charles Henry
Clark, Henry

-52

WITHDRAWN:
Anger, William Frederick

St-.ted Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Aitken, Andrew Boyd
Aitken, ltobert Balentine
Anderson, Fred Fleming
Asman, Otto Edward
Asman, Ulrich Henry
Bogard, Andrew Jackson
Boyd, Samuel Madison, P. M.

211

OFFICERS:

Caleb Russell Wilcoxon, Master,
John Wm. McQuaid, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Franklin Mixon, Sen. Warden, Thomas Green Hughes, Jun. Deccon,
Charles Edward Dingle, Jwn,. Ward., Eugene Thomas Lampton, Marshal,
Frederick Miller, TreasNrer,
William I)ykes, Steward,
\Villiam Henry Curson, Se<:rttary, Charles Edward Gostick, Steward,
Wilhelm Johan Petersen, Tyler.
Armstrong, Bert
Ball, Byron, P. M.
Ball, Chester Alex.
Ball, Gerald LamoBt

MEMBERS:
Balfour, Douglas, P. M.
Bandy, James.Edward
Bandy, Claude Marion
Barnes, Henry Tho1nas

!212

Beamer, Richard ·Henderi!On'
Beckwith, Charles ~ .r.
Black, William Small
Blanchard, Frank Williams
Blevins, William Joseph:.
Brown, Richard Marion•.
Browning, Bob.ert Welch ·'
Burns, Daniel Monroe, P; M.
Bush, Henry Jonathan .Charmak, Louis · .
Coil, Herbert· Elmer·
Coil, LeRoy
Craig, Wilton Porter ·
Craig, John Stephens·
Criteser, William Thomas ·
Curson, William Henry, P .. M.
Day, Russell Traver. ·
Deaner, Samuel Cllristi~n
Di:ckinson, Clarence Fitzhugh
Dickey, Edward Willise
Dingle, Charles Edward
Diggs, Marshall
Dungan, Jesse Holland
Dykes, William
Eakle, Henry Poffenberger, Jr.
Ellison, John Harrison
Everett, Louis Phillip
Fairchild, Freel .Ross •
Farnham, Erastus Sylvester
Ferguson, Franklin Benjl1mi:b.
Gaddis, Edward Everett
.
Garoutt~; J e;e ·Monah'a~ .
Gable, Hayes·Harvey, P. M.
Gibson, Thomas ·Ballard
,Gibson, Robert James i
G~ll, Henry, Davis
Gostick, Ch1ules ]J:.dward ·
Greg0ry, W~Ii~m HeP.ry
Griggs, Sylvester MinQr
Harling, John Douglas
Hartsock, Luzern Harrison
Hawkins, Nioiiolas Andrew
Hawkins, Jared Waldo ·
Hays, David
·
Hayward, Edward Babbitt

ROsTER.

.ROSTER.
Hartsock, Herman Adam
<·
Hilliker, Loren Warrenc
Howell, Marcus W onlen·
Holt, David Eldred
Hollingswortb., Giiorge Warren
Houston, Arthur CI'aig', P. ·M.
Houstol(_, '.E.dward Panamore ; ,
Houston, Harry:Lyle
Hughes, Thomas Green
Hyman, Will1am Morris, P. M.
Kauffm1p)., Forrest .Augustus
Kean, William Otho
Kincheloe, ZachJl,riah:Bl!nsoµ
Kitto, Thpm~s J;Iumphrey "
Lampton, Eugen!). ·Thomas · .
Lasky;. Israel ·
Langenour; ·William Roy, .P,. ·M;
Langenour, Cha:des .T.
Lawhead, Hiram,-·Da'V'is
Lee, Adelbert Robert
· Leithold, John Vincent
Lovejoy,. George Ray
Malcolm, Walter Francis
Mason, Fred Lowell
Mattei, Frank Peter
..:~HH!!!'.. }'rederick
Miller, David
¥iller, :Hezekiah Monroe
M~ller, Norman Boone
Yhlhael; .Joseph
Michael,- .Morl'.is
·..
. I
. .
Mixon, Wilham Franklin
Morris, Amiel
Morris, Ira AJ.len, P. M.
Montgome.ry, Samuel Morris
M-urray,.Joseph Alfred ,
Murray, .S idney Lafaye:tte
McConnell, James_Isom, P. M.
McFarland, John Carr
McQuaid, John William
Musgrove, Jacob DeKalb
Nelson, William Witl --- :·
- North, Arthur Walo:rldg; •• ·· ·
Owens, Ivor David''. .'
. Parker, Oscar Erwin

,,

•

Per.atlns, Cal'vin ·
Perry, HenI'y ·
Petersen, Wilhelm.Johan
Pond, Wallace Rognetta
Porter, Harry Delosa
Rablin, William Henry
Rahm, Francis Marion
Rasmussen, Hans Jacob W.
Rasor, Ulaire
Read, Aytchmonde Clarence
Reese, Thomas Brown
Relyea, Simon Baker
Richmond, Charles Lambard
Roberts, Hampton Evans
Rosenberg, Isidor
Russell, Willie F.
Ryan, Henry Philander
Schuder, William Campbell, P. M.
Sieber, Christian Henry
Sieber, Louis Chris

Smith, James- Kereon, :P. M.
Smith, James Leroy· ··
'
Spaulding, Thaddeus Stephens
· Stephens, Benjamin Hickman
Taylor, James Thomas
Taylor, Justus Hurd
Thompson, George Gilbert
Thomas, Charles Wilbur, Jr.
Van Meter, Conrad Lucius
Ward, Moses Wylie
Whitney, Ge~rge Elledge
Wilcoxon, Caleb Russell
Wilson, Preston Gillen
Wirth, Christian Frederick
Williams, John Calvert
Williams, Samuel Thom~s
Windsor, John William
Winne, William Henry
:Witham, Alvin Milton
Wright, John Henry
-138

WITHDRAWN:
Stressinger, Julius Theodore

,.

DIED:
Browning, William York
Cuyler, Richard W. S.

Freeman, John Watts
Glendenning, Edward
Thorp, Joseph Henry

GIBSONVILLE LODGE, No. 158.
Gibsonville, Sierra County.

•

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Yoon.
OFFICERS:

No Certificate.
;

Aaronson, George Dixon
Beiler, Nicholas
Brassel, Jacob
Day, George Holland

1213

MEMBERS:
Ermatinger, Casper
Foster, Robert
Forbes, Rector
Fraser, Philip Hector

ROSTER.

214

Humphreys, Thomas, p, M.
McFarland, Abell, P. M.
Owens, Owen H.
Reed, Henry Gibson
Schofield, Miles Edmond

Schofield, William Allred
Squier, Eli11s Gibbs, P. M.
'l'homa.s, David Philip
Wiegand, John, P. M.
Waterworth, James, P. M.

ROSTER.
Smith, Donald Craig
Snow, William .
Stewart, John Daniels
Stroud, Tracy

215

Thompson, John Joseph
Williams, George Manley
Wheeler, Rees Thompsou
-39

WITHDRAWN:
Humphreys, Eldridge Getchel

-18

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Meikle, William
Todd, 'Thomas Parker
Weil, Leapold Henry

DIED:
Bisbie, Wilson Abner

DIED:

HARMONY LODGE, Nci 164.

Holtz, August

Sierra City, Sierra County.
Ill

..

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFl:'ICERS:

KEYSTONE LODGE, No. l6r.
Milton, Calaveras County. ·
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pr>eeeding Fu!'_ Moon.
OFFICERS:

Horace Bell Allen, Ma~· ter,
Johann Frederick Helms, Sen. Dea.,
Candler Huntington, Senior Warden, William Samuel Dennis, Jun. Deacon,
John Joseph Thompson, Jun. Ward., Nills J. William Jorgenson, Marshal,
Marion Lee Hunt, Treasurer,
Frederick Cloyd Burnham, Steward,
Charles Wise Rhodes, Secretary,
James Henry Cameron, Steward,
Steven Decatur Hildebrand, Chap., William Henry H. Rhodes, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Horace Bell, P. M.
Baker, John Manuel, P. M:.
Batcher, Conrad Franklin
Brooks, Walter Ellsworth
Buckley, William Langdon
Burnham, Frederick Cloyd
Carnduff, Frank Ford
Dees, .W illiam Ruffing
Dennis, William Samuel
Denton, Walter Lines
Fontana., Charles Dominic
Gall, Clinton
Hendrick, Nathaniel Waril
Helms, Johann Fre1lerick
Hildebrand, Steven Decatur, P. M.
Honey, Milton

Horne, Frank Edmond
Hunt, Marion Lee
Huntington, Chandler
Johnston, Benjamin
Jorgenson, Nills Jorgen Wm., P. M.
Klemp, Jacob
Mercer, Robert Ainsworth
Nevens, Thomas
Ortman, Herman
Peterson, Richard Lester
Persons, William Milton
Rhodes, William Henry Harrison
Rhodes, Charle!! Wise, P. M.
Ross, Arthur Gilbert
Shepherd, James Shields
Shipley, William Chapma11, P. M.

William Andrew Lavery, Master,
Isaac Thompson Mooney, S. Deacon,
John Avignoni, Senior Warden,
Thomas Colfax Botting, !. Deacon,
Charles Castagna, Junior Warden, .................... . Marshal,
John Sorrocco, Treas14;rer,
Richard James, Steward,
William Cox, Secretary,
Levi Garfield, Steward,
Ernest Frederick Busch, Tyler.
Avignoni, John
Black, _George Scott, P. M.
Busch, Ernest Frederick
Cox, William, P. M.
Castagna, Charles, P. M.
Castagnetti, Jerome
Culbertson, Claude Milnott

MEMBERS:
Garfield, Levi
James, William Matthew
James, Richard
Lavery, William Andrew, P. M.
Mooney, Isaac Thompsou
Sorrocco, John
White, George- Edward
-14
DIED:
Nelson, Gustav

EXCELSIOR LODGE, No. 165.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month .
OFFICERS:

Herman Charles Gingg, Master,
Henry Charles Collins, Sen. Deacon,
Chas. Albert Adams, Senior Warden, Howard Delos Noble, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Henry Dick, Junior Warden, William Francis Buswell, Marshal,
Sam Houston Daniels, Treasurer,
Joseph Arthur Kuykendall, Steward,
Hugh James Owen, Secretary,
Richard Frank Tomlinson, Steward,
James Hardy Lewis, Chaplain,
Geo. Washington Perkins, Tyler.

216

.ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Adams, Adolph
· Bramsted, John Henry
Adams, Charles Albert
Brann, Walter ·scott
Alexander, George Lewis
Breidenbach, Emile Henry
Allen, Arthur Fuller
Bremner, George St. John
Allen, Isaac Patten
Bristol, Harlan Page
Allen, John
Brown, Albert Nelson
Ammerup, Gottlieb Adolph
Brown, Henry Eastman
Anderson, Reinhold Laracenius
Brown, James Albert
Arding, Walter Arthur
Brown, Moses Pettingell
Armstrong, George Robert, P. M.
Brown,- Willis Merritt
Atkins, Frank Ernest
Brunings, John Henry
Atkinson, Thomas Thompson, P. M. Brunt, .W alter Neat, P. M.
Averell, Herman Ellsworth
Bryan, Charles Henry, P. M.
Ayers, Edward Newton
Bryant, Edgar Reeve
Baker, Francis Joseph ,
Buchanan, J'ames Campbell
Baker, James Whitney
Buchse, Ernest Augustus
Ballard, Jedediah Stow
Buchingham, Aurelius E.
Balls, John
Buffington, William Horace
Bane, Charles Hamilton
Bull, Franklin Pettingel, P. M.
Bane, Christopher Columbus
Bundy, George
Barnhisel, Epenetus Rodgers
Busley, Frederick Henry
Barr, William George
Buswell, William Francis
Barrere, Louis
Cameron, John William, P. M.
Bateman, Frank Luce
Campbell, Henry Homer
Bauer, Charles Franklin
Carlson, Gustave Edwin
Bauer, George William
Carter, Stewart
.l:Saxter, Charles Arthur
Chandler, Lewis Edward
Baxter, Hiram Dudley
Chlopeck, Erwin Ladislaf
Beatty, John
Christesen, Martin August C.
Belcher, William Johnson
Clark, True Sanford
Bender, Carl Godfrey
Claussenius, Maximilian
Bender, George Lee
Cloak, Henry Burdell
Benjamin, Frank Edward
Clover, John Alex.
Berry, DeLos Tracy
Cluff, William
Black, James Alex.
Cole, Nathaniel Parker
Blake, Sumner Iverson
Colestock, Thomas David
Blanckennurg, Emil Louis William Colford, Lewis Oscar
Bodler, Frank Frederic
Collins, Henry Charles
Boettcher, Paul
Collins, William Henry
Bogen, William
Conrad, John George, P. M.
Bohls, Henry
Cook, Carroll, P. M.
Borland, James Howatt
Corbett, William Colver
Bothin, Julius Christopher
Cory, Frank Hoyt
Boutelle, William Clarence
Covert, George Howard

-R OSTER.

,

'

f

Cox, Joseph George
Croal, George James
Cumback, William Elbert
Cuthbert, John William ·
Gutter, Edward Bowie
Daniels, Sam Houston, P. M.
Davidson, John Clay
Davis, Burt Lincoln
Davis, Charles Lott
Davis, Marks
Davis, Warren Franklin
Davis, Winfield Scott
Deering, Frank Prentiss
DeGuire, Robert Paul
Delamater, Rolla Cornelius
Delzelle, William Robert
Dial, Edwin Lee
Dick, William Henry
Dillon, Gerald Luke
Doherty, John Charles
Dorr, Levi Lewis
Dorr, William Raymond
Dow, Edwin Tyson
Duff, Thomas Carson
Dugan, Charles Edwin
Dunne, Joseph John
Dye, Milo Ernest
Earhart, Earl
Easton, Wendell, P. M.
Eaton, Louis Page
Edwards, James Washington
Edwards, William
Bidenmuller, William Cooper
Emerick, Walter Archibald
English, Edward
Esser, Alex. Julius
Faulkner, Charles Pittman, P. M.
Faull, Ashley Richard
Faull, William Clark
Fennimore, Walter Dana
Ferguson, George Bonnell
Ferguson, Howard William
Ferguson, Phineas Fanning
Ferguson, William Cook
Ferullo, David

211

Feudner,- Martin Otto
Fischer, Edward George
Fisher, William
Fitch, Luther Edward·
Forbes, John Franklin
Ford, Joseph Daniels
Forry, Charles Edward
Forster, Edwin Lycurgus, P. M.
Foster, Colin Lawrence
Frazer, Thoma~ Jackson
Friend, Edmund
Frisbee, George Gordon
Frisbee, Jacob Lynn
Gallet, Henry Wells
Gardner, John Endicott
Garoutte, Charles Henry
Garratt, Milton Donohue
Gauthier, Eugene, Jr.
Geissler, Carl George Lewis
Gerdes, Frederick Carsten
Gerdts, John
Gingg, Emil
Gingg, Herman Charles
Gould, Charles Walter
Gould, Harry Folsom
Graham, Thomas Dunnett
Greene, Charles Henry
Gregory, Edward Herbert L .
Gruenhagen, Charles Henry
Gruenhagen, Theodore Godlowe
Guest, Thomas Frederick
Guyett, Roderick George, P. M.
Hagbom, Emil Wilhelm
Hagglund, John Gustave
Hall, Frank Delmer
Hallett, Alonzo
Halsted, William Augustus
Hammond, Manton E.
Hannigan, Michael Percival
Hare, Darrell Allen, P. M.
Hart, Harrold D.
Heitmuller, Henry Diedrich
Hemenway, Sylvester Wash.
Hensley, Frelierick Conway, P. M.
Hensley, George Augustus

218
Hensley, William John
Herndon, Newton Booth
Hess, William Edward
Hill, John Ellis
Hoffman, Ramon King
Hogan, Howard Henry
Hollister, Frank E.
Hughes, Jesse Pierce
Hughes, John Calvin
Hulme, Charles Allen
Hulme, Edwin Page
Hulme, James Garfield
Humphrey, Charles Franklin
Hunter, Frank Lee
Hunter, Lewis Clarence, P. M.
Hutchison, Benjamin Franklin
Iredale, Charles Winslow
Irvine, Leigh Hadley
Irving, Alex.
Johnson, Frank
Johnson, James Halvor
Johnson, John Charles
Jones, Albert Thomas
Jones, Arthur Owen
Jones, Arthur Sidney
Jones, William Ernest
Kampe, Solomon
Karasek, Frank
Keene, Reginald Edwin
Kelton, Edward Ames
Kempston, Arthur
Kenyon, Curtis George, P. M.
Kern, Morris James
Kerr, Thomas Blair
Kincaid, John Evans
King, Thomas Carter
Klein, John Adolph
Knowles, Samuel EdwarJ
Knowlton, John Sylvester·
Kohn, Isaack
Koster, John Andreas
Krieger, Charles Mathew
Kuenzi, Albert Rudolph M.
Kuhls, Frederick August
Kuykendall, Joseph Arthur

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Lacey, Albert Ernest
Lacey, Joseph Carlisle
Lank, Samuel James
Large, William Henry
Laughlin, Clyde Briggs
Lawrie, John Urquhart
Lawton, Zephaniah
Leary, Daniel Florence
Legge, Robert Thomas
Leithead, Charles Ellsworth
Lewis, John Weller
Lindsey, Edward Kimball
London, Henry
Long, George Searley
Love, James Alex.
Lowe, Edmund Ashbrook
Lucas, Walter Edward
Lumley, John
Lund, Peter Renhold
Lutkey, George
Mackie, William
Mangrum, Arthur Sherman
Marks, Jesse Emanuel
Martens, Frederick Theo.
Marwedel, Charles Walter
Masterson, Joseph Alfred
Maxwell, Franklin
Mcclaughry,' Hull
McDonnell, Samuel Alex.
McGregor, Samuel
McKenna, Joseph Dimond
McKeller, Norman
McLaughlin, David
McLean, Walter Joseph
McMullin, Samuel
McNair, William Wilson, P. M.
Mehrtens, John 'Henry
Merrill, Jay Harrold
Mettmann, Frank Xavier
Miall, Cuthbert Erskine M.
Miles, William Emmert
Miller, Alex. Charles
Miller, Glen
Mills, Warren Fountain
Minor, Theo. Henry

•

1Iinson, Robert Kemp
Mix, Lee Williamson
Moraghan, John Owen
Morgan, Charles Lewis
Morrison, John Chambers
Moseley, Andrew Simpson
Murch, Louis Augustine, P. M.
Murdock, George Hamilton
Naunton, George
Nichols, James Francis
Nicoll, Wallace Clifton
Noble, Howard Delos
Nutter, Eugene Colby
Osborn, Lamartine
Overgaard, Soren K~~~ilen
Overton, Charles Parshall, P. M.
Overton, Victor Grant
Owen, Edgar Hugh
Owen, Hugh James, P. M.
Owen, Melville Griffith
Parish, Mark
Parker, Edwin Everett
Parnell, William Russell
Parsons, Edward Darious
Patterson, Robert Hamilton
Pease, Charles Julius.
Pedlar, William James
Percy, Earl Newman
Perkins, George Washington
Perkins, S~rnuel Henry, P. M.
Perkins, Willis Thomas
Perry, Frederic Jewell
Pippy, George Henry
Plughofl', Albert David
Polastri, Richard Stephen
Porcher, John
Postiglione, Guiseppi Maria
Powers, Aaron Hubbard
Purdie, John Stewart
Purrington, Clarence Woodford
Quevedo, Francisco
Quigley, George Frederick
Ralph, James Davison
Ralston, Henry James
Ramacciotti, Hugo Francis

Raubinger, William John
Reardon, Charles Fairfax
Rednall, William Walter
Reichling, Albert Henry
Rice, Richard James
Richards, James Symmes
Rietzke, Gustave Charles
Sanford, Wimburn Laurie
Scheerer, JoJeph
Schetzel, .Adolph Georg
Schmidt, Edwin Valentine
Schmidt, Henry Claus
Schroepfer, Albert
Scott, George
Scott, Horace Vanansdol
Scull, Charles
Seybolt, Frederick Lewis
Shainwald, Herman
Sharp, William Enfield
Shartzer, Thomas Farrington
Shaw, Butler Emerson
Shaw, Herbert Goss
Shortridge, Samuel Morgan
Sims, Richard Maury
smith, Charles ltobert
Smith, Haldor
Smith, John Menzies, P. M.
Smith, Robert Masson
Southard, Albert Burley
Sparrowe, Thomas William
Specht, Charles
Spencer, Franklin Morse
Spengler, Edward Philips
Staley, Robert Tilghman
Stephens, James Alex.
Stites, George Reid
Stockfleth, John
Stofen, John Jacob, P. M.
Stowell, Fred Willis
Strachan, John Ernest
Stratford, Harry James
Stromberg, Bernard Frithofl'
Stroud, John Rodgers
Stuart, William Elder
Sturken, Fabian Henry

219

RoSTEB~

220

Sumner, Frank Willia~
Suydam, James Hobart
Taber, Charles Wesley
Tait, William Cove
Taylor, George McClellan
Taylor, Henry
Terry, Wallace Irving
Tibbitts, Francis Albert
Tiffany, William Zobel
Titus, Frank H.
Tolman, Rufus Jenkins
' Tomlinson, Richard Frank
Triest, Bernha-rd
Trittenbach, Emil
Umbsen, Gustave Henry
Vail, Aiken Hiller
Van Schaick, Frank ·chester
Veeder, Herman Greig
Veeder, Howard Potter
Von Bonin, Carl
Von Hartwig, Carl
Von Wefelsburg, Alex. B., P. M.
Walker, Thomas Dawson
Wallace, James Sanderson
Walters, Edward Charles
Ward, Charles Herbert
Webster, Walter Byron

.ROSTER.

Welch, Willard Choa'.te
Wenzelburger, Chas.
·Augustus
W enzelburger, Emil
Werner, Carl
Westphal, Christian Henry
Westphal, Edward William
Westphal, ·Henry William
Westphal, Otto Frank, P. M.
Wetmore, John Griffith
Whirlow., Herman Francis
White, Majer John
Whitelaw, Henry William
Wiegel, Louis Henry
Wiesenhaven, Henry Herman
Williams, Albert William
Wilson, Charles Harold
Wilson, Joseph Lewis
Wilson, Thomas Chamberlain
Wolfe, Clarence Navarre
Wood, Charles MichaeJ..
Wood, William Joseph
Woods, Henry Frank
Woodward, Gideon Paschall
Wynn, John Edward
Young, Clarence Eaton
Zett, George John
Zipf, Albert Ferdinand
--412

EXPELLED:
Lask, Harry Joseph
DIED:
Beck, Reinhold
Bruce, James Henderson
Dore, Benjamin ·
Healy, Benjamin

Love, Burr
Moncisvais, Charles
Sand, Joseph Emil
Shaw,:David Kerr
Strader, John E.

-' '·ALAMEDA "LODGE, No. r:fii:J :' · :. .· . .,.,

Wm.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bates, Frank Dudley
Goggins, Leslie Irving
Davis, Edward Lawrence

&21

Cen~e Alameda County. . --·iU."' o ·"

Stated

'

Meetin~s; Satu'.5µ~; ~f or next we!!~~~~.;~v Y.~~~)

'
.. OFFICERS:
..
' "'
Abbott ~:itterthwaite, Master,
George Whitfi'eid.WTighf,~S11n. Deae;,
Christian Runclcel; Senior War.lien; . Eugene Nathaniel Babb, Iun .. Deaeon,
Peter Christia;.. Hansen, Jun:. W;ard.,: Farley B. Granger, Marshal,.
Edward Arnold .Grau; Treasurer.;•: Herman Ernest1•Basler, Steward,' .. ·
Arthur Theo. Bidtlle; Secre1ar.y,
.• George Frazier SulBvati, ·'Steward:,
·
Ozias .B. Simpson, Tyler. '· 1;· • ' • .•
'
•
'·l! M.EMBERS:

;

~·

.4:

Baker, Ellis 'willi~ni
Fowler, Herbert~ Eli . .. .
_
Granger, Farfi\f~B'ep.jam)'.'n1 P. M;
Barry, William
· Grau, Edwaid ..A~1:fo14; .P: M::;
•
B~sler, Hel).ry. :E)rn~st
Graham, Geol'ge Edwin
Beene; George A.
Green, Harry Beck
Biddle, Arthur Theo.
Gregory, George L.
Blacow, John Robert
Hansep., Peter Christian
Blacow, Richard ,Dearing
Haley, Comfort . .
Blair, Thomas Henry
Haley, William Wallace
Brewer, James Morris
·· Hare, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Brisacker, Leo
Helling, Frederick Phillip · ;r , ;,,
Brown, Barton Alva
Helling, George Peter
''
Brown, Samuel Frankliu
Rigley, Seward Oliver
Burt, James Frederick
~orp.e!:, Charles Freqerick
Christiansen1 _Andrew
,
H~dson', George Henry ·
Corkefair, eha:Ples• :Parson
Cushing, John Hen:cyi ,.. ·~ r: ~ .. 1 ,;·Hu.x;ley~ Thomas •Charles, P. M.
Ismert, }l::<}:wi:r;1 Julias ': ·
Cushmi.i,n, .D,c:i~gla_!! ~. : Jung, William
Colby, Herbert Eugene
.lackson, ~enry William
Crosby, Hel).ry
· .Jaco bus, .1uii~n ;Ed.gar
Crowell, Hel')'.11.an;" P. M.
Dixon, M!l.thew William
Kirk, Wiliia!lJ. :Bruff
Lang, Ernest George
Durham, ·Judge Haley
La.rkin, A,mos Stephen
Ehrman, Solomon ·
Lebrecht; Adolph'· i · •
Ehrman; Aifred
Lo~e/ 'John ·-Charles Frederick
Ellis, Phillip Austin
: ,,~ .. LOve,=Charles Allen
Eggers, Louis Herman
'1
Emerson, Hen:iy :Why1e, p; :M.
May, Henry
• ·• ''
McDougall, James'
: •
~vans, Charles, P. M. \ • ;
McLeod, James.M: ·· •
Farley, New.ton 8ey,moui'
... ,:", ·.-,~McKeown,rJaiii:es· i
Finn, Alexander
~.McKenna, Fergus r;'·
;r
Ford, William Henry : n • T ~.!!
. ,
Morrison, :Berry£. ~ :,: ,t
~.
Ford, Henry Darnall " ·
Mortimer, Rmnli1;i l
Fischer, George Cresent' ,;

-.,! •

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Mowry, Joseph Clleney
Nicholson, John Alex.
Norris, Albert. P. M.
Overacker, Charles Bernard
Overacker, Howard, Sr.
Patterson, Henry Hawley
Plourde, Prosper
Ralph, Ivins Vernett
Rigsby, John William
Runckel, Christian
Salz, Clarene.e Ferdinand
Salz, Sigmund
Satterthwait, Abbott
Silva, Manuel Francisco
Simpson, Ozias Buddington
Smith, Roderick Edward

Smith, Walter Roderick
Southwick, Oliver Lyman, ·P. M.
Spencer, James Albert
Stanley, James
Sullivan, George Frazier
Symon, James Charles
Terrill, John Byron, P. M.
Trefry, James A.
Volmer, Rudolph, P. M.
Werner, Edward Peter
Whipple, Edwin, P. M.
Whipple, James Ray
Whitfield, Albert Arthur
Williams, George Henry
Wills, Clarence A.
Wright, George Whitfield
-98

WITHDRAWN:
Drummond, George Mowbray
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Anderson, Martin Peter
Davis, Richard Augustus
Gregory, Henry C.

DIED:
Haley, Caleb Scott
Kelley, David Chalfant

REDWOOD CITY LODGE

No. 168.

Redwood City, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next prcr.eding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Frank Kendall Towne, Master,
Wm. A. Shrewsbury, Senior Deacon,
Roy Walter Cloud, Senior Warden, Richard F. Chikott, Junior Deacon,
Ernest Henry \Verder, Jun. Warden, James Jay Rogers, Marshal,
Ludwig Philip Behrens, Treasurer, George Henry Leary, Steward,
Chas. George Landscheit, Secretary, Albert Louis Lowe, Steward,
John Watkin Glennan, Tyler.
Andreen, Nils Andy
Bacon, Willard Wilson
Barret, Walter Melville
Barstow, William Addison
Bassetti, Antonio
Batchelder, Edgar Barnard
Beeger, Charles Chriztmn

MEMBERS:
Behrens, Ludwig Philip
Black, Henry
Blomquist, Alfred George
Boicelli, Daniel
Boicelli, Victor
Breese, James Patterson
Brown, Robert

..
•

•

Carter, William Bottomly
Chamberlain, P. Peregreen, P. M.
Chilcott, Richard Frederic
Cloud, Roy Walter
Conover, John Simpson
Cook, Alonzo
Cowgill, John Emory
Crowe, James
Dobbel, Charles Henry Louis
Eckhart, Charles Harmon
Einstein, Gabriel
Elvin, Ferdinand
Emmett, Walter Alfred
Fox, Edwin Benton
Fulton, Albert Leonidas
Gillespie, James
Glennan, John W alkin
Goodspeed, Isaac Roscoe
Graham, Andrew
Haseler, Henry
Hayward, Clarence Decatur
Headley, William
Heiner, Lawrence Andrew
Hixner, Lovie
Hextrom, Charles August
Heydenfeldt, Thomas O., P. M.
Hillebrand, Henry
Hoffman, Carl Paul M.
Holden, George Walcott
Holmquist, Rudolph Carl
Hughes, William
Joyce, William Holland
Kempster, James William H.
Kreiss, Philip
Kreiss, George Augustus
Landscheit, Charles George, P. M.
Leary, George Henry
Lipp, William Henry
Lochlin, Curtis Brockway
Lowe, Albert Louis
Lowe, Julius William, P. M.

Graves, Nathan Brockett
Hansen, Christian Eiler

223

Mansfield, Joel Henry
MacBain, Edward Gordon
MacBain, John
McCracken, Charles Larken
McCrea, Samuel Pressly
McPherson, John Andrew
Moberry, Leonard Albert
Mosher, Alvin Hiram
Neal, George Albert
Nelson, John Arvid
Nielson, Knud Kristian
Orton, Wellington Eugene
Otzen, Lorenz
Peers, Alex.
Pipkin, James Marion
Pipkin, William Henry
Poole, John
Poole, John Wesley, P. M.
Ralston, John Thurston
Ramsay, Thomas Henry
Rice, Thomas Clarke
Rich, Charles Robert
Robertson, Charles Davitl
Rogers, JaIIJes Jay
Ross, George Carlos
Ross, Joseph Louis
Rumbol, Richard Foyster
Saunders, Benjamin Rankin
Sebastiana, Salvatore
Shrewsbury, William Arthur
Sickert, Frederick Wilhelm
Stevenson, Howard Griffith
Stuart, William Baker
Swanson, Carl
Thompson, Henry Bailey
Towne, Frank Kendall, P. M.
West, George Elmer
Wirder, Ernest Henry
Winkler, John Carl G.
Wisnom, John
Yount, George Henry
-96

DIED:
Mills, David Josiah
Vorhies, Daniel Groff

ROSTER.

.ROSTER.

22!
1.' MISSION

LODGE, No:. 169._

n ' · · ; San: Francisco,
San t<ianciS~o
·.
.
. Co~tY.
. ,·
• Stated Meetii~gs, First Wednesday in each month. \

' OFFICERS:

.

.

,,,
'·'
Sherman Au,sustus :B ishop, ¥aster, Robert Edward Allan, Senior De~cpn,
Frank Hurshall 'l')uall, Sim, Ward Henry Hall, Junior Deacon,
Harry Everett L~land,.Ju~: War~en, John H¥,lett, Marshal,
George William Lun.t,_ Tre~u,rer,
William Joseph .Berger, Ste'/Pard_;.\ ·
Frank Wesley. ~mith, Secretary,
Charles Sumner Rogi;rs, Steward,
,: l~:mes Ed~ard Parmelee, .Tyler.
.

MEMBERS:
Barron, Arthur William
Adriance, Walter ;Doughty
Barz, Frederick Carl
Aikins, Thomas' Gelirge .
Basney, Virgil FyJ~r
Aitchison, Wiliiam John
Bates, William ·Edwin
Allan, Robey! ~.dward .
Battelle, Erriest Leslie
Allan, Thotnas· John ' ·
Bean, Willard Calderhood, P. M.
Allen, Arthur ..Dencel
Becht, George Joseph
·
Allen, Riehard· Spieer;P. M.
Beck, Ada1D. ·
Allen, Waldo Frederlc)r
Becker, George .Erne'st
Amy, WinfiEM Scott
Beebe, Georg·e ·Alson
Anderson, Etlward Walter
Beede, Stephen McDonald
Anderson, George Mag1fos
BeickeJ Lo_uis John Emil
Anderson, Isaac
Bell .roh:o. ··Joseph'
Anderson, Jonatha_n·
Bemiss, Lincoln Edward
Andrews,
Benedi~t, Amos William
Andrews/ Maline Axel
Benedict, Ch~rles Edward,
Antonsen, Hans
. .
Apperson-;· J,ohn. :Alex.,· ~: ··J,\t. ~
Benedict, James Seymo11-r. '
Benner, Emerson Ozias·
Arata, Mari"Q ·r~a~Ji
'
· ·
Bennett, John J"oseph •··
Arnberger; Richard Clau~
Arnold, Harry BroWn ;,
Berg, George Charle!J •
Berg, Isaac
'
Arthur, James J;..emuel
Berg!;!rL William Joseph
Astrup,, Hagen Frederick
Be'V~rly'; 'Edward ;B'.dw~ru·
Atkinson; George Frederick
Bigelow, Edwin ·wens ·
Ayers, Charles Lamont ·
: } ~·
•
•
f
•'
Bishop, Frank Bryant
Ayres, William "-\v~ilace
Bishop,
Sherniii.ii
Aµgu~tU:s
..
·
Badgley, Gilbert B\injattu'µ
Bitley, Frank Willl.aµi
Ball, Thaddeus
·
Black, Edwin· Craiur · '·
Ba~ke, Elias Anderso..:i
Black, William
Barker, Joseph
Blackburn, William.Henry
Barlow, William George
Bloomer, Samuel Merritt · .
Barnes, Edward . ;. • , . ·
·Bodie, Harry· Willia·m
Barnes, William WaUace

.J"ohn · ·

Boelen, Alfred Blatchley
Boelen, William Charles
Bolfing, Arthur John
Booth, Percy Harold
Boradt, William
Boyd, George Washington ·
Boyles, Edgar Amos
Boysen, Edward Constantine
Brace, Nathan .
Brady, William1 Jr.
Bragg, Frank
Brandon, Frederick Duke
Brandtjen, John Charles
Brann, Harry Harding
Brann, Robert Chaplain
Breitenstein, Edmund Ed. Wm.
Brewer, Frederick Adolph
Brewer, Frederick Irving
Brizard, Ma:x:ime John
Brockmann, George Robert
Brockmann, Henry Frederick Wm.
Brodek, Robert Tuch
Brookover, Joseph Cochran
Brooks, Alpheus Baxter
Brooks, Orion
Brown, Clive Augustus
Brown, Daniel Davis
Brown, James Henry
Browne, Francis Julian
Browne, Robert Daniel
Bruns, Henry Frederick
Bryan, Jacob
Bunker, Charles Di=ock
Bunker, Henry Chase1 P. M.
Burg, Carl Henry
Burg, Gustaf Frederick
Burgess, Cornelius. Si=o11ds
Burgess, Joseph Edward
Burgren, Arthur William
'Burness, Robert Duke
Burness, John Elder
Burroughs, Charles Rickertson
Burton, Arthur John
Butler, Alfred John
Butler, John Alfred

225

Butterfield, William Abram
Cadwallader, Rawlins
Cadwell, Howard Wiswell
Callender, Walter Louis
Cameron, Dudley Alfred
Campbell, Donald R.
Campbell, John Malcolm
Cardinell, John Douglass
Carnall, Henry
Carren, John Thomas
Center, Hugh
Chapin, George Edward
Chatham, William
Chorley, Ross Robertson
Christenson, Andrew, P. M.
Christian, James Allen
Christiansen, Ernst Wm. Charles
Clare, Robert Moffitt, P. M.
Clark, Frank Emerson
Clark, Joseph Edmund
Clark, Milton Sutton
Claussen, Gustave Frederick
Clay, Wade Hampton
Clough, Charles Andres
Cobb, William Henry, P. M.
Coburn, Charles Edward
Coffin, Dewey
Coiner, Oscar Christian
Coles, Harrison Palmer
Collier, Henry Borradaile
Collins, Thomas Cahall
Comings, Orrington Lunt
Condon, Michael Daniel
Conrad, William
Conway, George
Cook, Donald
Cooke, Archibald
Cookson, Frank Spencer
.Cooper, Arthur William
Cooper, Herbert Harry
Cordes, William Frederick
Corpley, Marshall Freeman
Coulter, Robert Ashford
Couper, Edgar Ward
Courtright, William Leander

15

•

226
Cousins, Richard Joseph
Coutts, James Stirling
Cox, John Hadden
Cox, Palmer, P. M.
Crosett, Edward Franklin, P. M.
Cruden, John
Curnow, George Livingston
Currie, Robert, Jr.
Curtis, John Morrison
Cuthbertson, George Washington
Daggett, Harry Mayhew
Daly, John Donald
Daly, Samuel Joseph
Damuth, Wilbur Civill
Danielson, Gustaf
Davidson, George Bailey
Davies, David Caradoc
Davies, Thomas Abraham
Davis, George Alvinza
Davison, William Henry
Dawson, Otto John
Day, Charles Austin, P. M.
Day, Henry Lucas
Day, Thomas Henry
Daywalt, George Washington
Dean, Corbett George
Dean, Francis
:Qeemer, John Franklin, P. M.
De Guerre, Wade Hampton
De Langton, George Handy
DeLano, Willie Winfry
Deremberg, Emil
_
Dethlefsen, Nicolai Friedrich
Dettmers, George
Dickie, Walter Murray
Diserens, Frederick
Dodd, Milton Franklin
Dodd, Robert William
Dominguez, Richard Arthur
Donaldson, Robert
Dorsey, Gilbert Maxwell
Douglas, George Willard
Douglass, William
Dow, Cyrus Clinton, P. M.
Dowle, William Godfrey
Doyle, Charles Davis

ROSTER.
Draffin, William Henry
Driefer, Conrad Ludolf
Drummond, Mark
Dunbar, Hubbard Foster
Duncan, James Hepburn
Duncan, Robert L.
Duperu, William Alphonse
Dyer, Emerson Crocker
Dyer, Richard William
Eastman, Edward Ferry
Eastman, George Mason
Eaton, John William, P. M.
Ede, William
Edwards, John Henry
Edwards, William
Efford, Robert James
Elam, Grover Cleveland
Elam, Thomas
Elder, Robert
Ellefsen, Charles
Ellinger, Charles Georg Gustav
Ellis, Arthur Clarence
Emmons, Joseph Engle
English, George Edward
English, John Francis
Evans, Chester Hepburn
Evans, Chester Willard
Evans, George Herbert
Ewell, Augustus Hyde
Fahrenholz, Frederick Wi1liam
Fairchild, Willard Wilson
Fairfield, Marshall
Fairfield, Marshall Joseph
Fairgrieve, William
Falconer, John
Falkenstein, Christian Jacob
Farrell, William
Felling, Louis
Fell, Thomas
Ferrier, George Washington
Fetter, Frank Culin
Fisher, Charles Emmons
Flack, James Maurice
Flack, William Malen
Floyd, William Erwin
Fluth, John Henry

ROSTER.
Forbes, Thomas Henry
Ford, William
Forrest, ]<]dwin
Fortune, James Alex.
Fossey, Harry Edwin
Foster, George Lewis
Frahm, Claus
Frahm, Henry Thomas
Frahm, William Claudius
Frantz, Clarence Sherman
Fredericks, William Godfrey
French, Edward James
Freyermuth, Otto George
Fricke, John William
Gage, Charles Leslie
Gaines, Rufus Henry .
Gallagher, Robert Ferral
Gardiner, Alex. Smith
Gardner, Fredric Archie
Gatley, John
Gatley, Richard Henry
Gee, William Stokes
Genesy, Walter Alex.
Gentle, William Frederick
Geo:r'~e, Anson Northrup
George, Clarence Farmer
George, William Henry
Gesford, Henry Clay
Gibson, Fred Herbert, P. M.
Gibson, William Walker
Gilbert, Ernest Joseph
Gilbert, Frank L.
Gilley, Curtiss Nobltl
Gilson, John Edward
Ginty, Eugene Mabury
Gitsham, Charles
Giuro, Paul
Gleaves, Christopher Columbus
Goode, Walter Thomas
Goodfellow, Summerfield Isi.tiah
Gordon, Robert
Gosliner, Harry Benjamin
Gostlin, Thomas
Granicher, Walter August Herman
Grant, James Cameron
Grantland, John

Gray, James Alfred
Green, Morris
Greenfield, Charles Edward
Griffith, William
Grotefend, Charles William
Gummow, Leon LeRoy
Gunderson, Thomas
Gunn, Alfred Scott
Gunn, Herbert
Gunnison, Albert Warren
Gunnison, Frank Sawyer
Haight, Louis Montrose
Haines, Samuel Newell
Hale, Charles Everett
Hale, Charles Rector
Hale, Frank Orrin
Halket, William Duncan
Hall, Henry
·
Hallett, Eugene .Bartlet
Hallgren, Fred
Hallquist, Philip
Halsted, John Bernard
Haman, Henry
Hambly, Harry Bishop
Hammi t, John Nimrod
Hansell, Calvin Emerick
Hansen, August Raymond ·
Hansen, Christian Winchler
Hansen, Edward Paul
Hansen, Theo. Peter
Hanson, George Franklin
Harper, Alex. James
Haslehurst, William Wallace
Haslett, Joseph
Hatch, Francis Oliver
Hatch, Herbert Locy
Hatton, George
Haughton, John
Haughton, John William
Haussler, Gustavus Adolphus
Hawksley, Alex.
Hayes, Benjamin West
Hayselden, Percy James
Hazlett, John
Headrick, Andrew Johnson
Hedges, Joseph Wharton

227

228
Hellwig, Karl Frederick H. C.
Henn, Theo. Edwin
Henry, Robert Allan
Hepburn, John
Hermann, Emil Arminius
Herring, Richard, P. M.
Hesse, Edwin Ellsworth
Hetzer, Henry August
Hickie, Peter William
Hiefield, Alfred Thomas
Higgins, Robert
Hilder, Louis
Hill, William
Hillman, John Reuben, P. M.
Hilton, Franklin Charles
Hind, George Urwin
Hitzeroth, Lorenz Devenport
Hoag, Jonathan Kittridge
Hock, Henry
Hock, Henry To bias
Hodgdon, James Peverly, P. M.
Hoe?tkorn, Charles Albert
Hofen, William Charles
Hohfeld, Clarence Henry
Holland, Frank Stuart
Holloway, Albert Eugene
Holmes, Clarence Rawson
Holmquist, Frank Oscar
Hooper, John Milton
Hopkins, Joli11 Louis
Horton, Charles Coates
Hougaard, William Frederick
Howe, William Dikeman
Howell, Josiah Rowland
Hulse, David Andrew
Hummel, George William
Hursh, Ray Leslie
Hursh, Loren Leigh
Hurst, Prerlerick Joseph
Husar, Christian
·
Hussey, Wallace Maxwell
Hutton, Cassius Albert
Ingersoll, John Francis
Inman, Thomas George
Ireland, Elvie Levan

ROSTER.

· ROSTER.
Irwin, Charles Milton
Jacks, Henry
·
Jackson, Charles Hooper
Jackson, John Quincy
Jager, George
Jager, Will Phillip
Jagger, Henry Corbett
Jamieson, Andrew
Janes, Thomas Inglis
Janes, William Henry
Jenkins·, William McDonald
Johnson, August
Johnson, Charles Thorwald
Johnson, Olaf
Johnston, George
Johnston, George Alex.
Jones, Bert Monroe
Jones, Edward Thomas
Jones, Frederick Charles
Jones, Hu
Jones, John Bates
Jones, John Edmund
Jones, John Richard
Jones, Osgood Keener
Jones, Samuel A.
Jones, Thomas
Jones, William Franklin
Jones, William Gustus
Jordan, William Henry
Jose, Ri~ardo Juan
Juel, Adolph Oliver
Kanzee, Arthur
Kanzee, Austin
Keller, James Edwin
Kellie, Charles
Kenne, Frank George
Kern, Louis Adolph
Kern, Raymond Lewis
Kerr, Charles
Kessen, ,J'ames Morton
Keyser, Paul
Keyston, James Woods
Keyston, James Woods, Jr.
Keyston, Samuel Albett
Keyston, William Donald

.

Kight, David Mooreland
Killgore, Edwin Read
Kil}gore, Robert Read
King, Dennis Wyckoff
King, John Watt
King, William Riddick
Kingsland, George Robert
Klein, John Mathias
Klose, Emil Adolph
Kneass, Edward Daniel
Konrad, Joseph Leopold
Kornbeck, Christian Hansen
Kreher, Otto Max
Kreisel, Edward
Kress, Augustus Herman
Krug, Peter John
Kruse, Louis Frank
Kuhl, Max John
Kuhl, William Frederick
Kyle, Edwin Louis
Lamont, William
Land, George Burton
Lane, Mark Graham
Lane, Roscoe Edgerly
Langlois, Francis Bernard
Larimer, Elmer Forrest
Lawrence, James
Leider, Albert Christian Fred 'k
Leland, Harry Everett
Lemon, Gordon Cruickshank
Levensaler, Joseph Gillchrest
Libby, Charles Frederic, P. M.
Lieb, Henry Melville
Liebenow, Herman Carl
Linderman, Samuel Williard
Lindley, William Purdy
Lindsey, Douglas
Lindstrom, John Francis
Little, Archibald Dunlap
Logan, Ross Clay
Lord, Thomas
Lothrop, Arthur Baxter
Lover, Walter
Lowrie, John Morrison
Luce, Samuel Andrew

Lundstrom, Knut Arvid Magnus
Lunt, George William, P. M.
Lyon, Walter Seth
MacDonald, Lincoln Duncan
Mack, Albert Christian
Malcomson, Thomas
Mangelsdorf, Willy
Mann, Patrick James
Marsh, John Alfred
Marshall, Charles
Marston, Frank Wheeler
Martin, George Wilbur
Mason, Frank
Mathews, George Monroe
Mathis, Jacob Lenhardt
Matthews, Willie S.
Mau, Charles Albert
Maundrell, Harry
Maundrdl, Harold Hugh
May, Fulton Hugh
.
McAllister, Richard Victor
McCall, Elvin Carlile
McCall, William
McCarty, James
McCarty, Louis Philippe
McClinton, Myron Giles
McCook, James
McCormick, William Whipple
McCracken, .Tohn Wesley
l\foDanid, William Henry
McDonald, John Glen
McDonald, Wallace Sinclair
McGavran, Stephen William
McGilvray, John Duff, Jr.
McGinley, Robert Henderson
McGregor, Alex.
McGregor, John Ingram
McGregor, William
Mcintosh, John
Mcintosh, John Frazer
McKee, Charles Dunlap
McKenzie, Albert William
McKillop, William John
McKnew, Henry Lee
McLachlan, Andrew Stephen,

229

230

McLachlan, Thomas Mitchell
McLagan, Charles
McLaren, Archibald Rowan
McNair, Andrew
McNoble, Emery Lewis
McPhun, William, Jr.
Meaney, Lewis Joseph
Mecredy, Frederick Albert
Mecredy, John
Melendy, Harry Whaitcs
Mennie, Alex.
Merrill, Gilman Berlin
Meroy, Edward Thomas
Meyers, William Alfred
Miller, John Alex.
Miller, John Edward Adolphus
Miller, John Wallace
Miller, Robert John
Miller, Robert Notman
Miller, William (1)
Miller, William (2)
Mir k, Thomas
Mocine, John Calvin
Moffat, James Campbell
Mohr, Henry AntorL
Moore, John Cutler
Moore, William Hiland
Moore, William Wallace, P. M.
Moran, Allan Garfield
Mori, Emilie Daniel
Morse, Charles Elias
Morse, George Lascelles
Mothander, John Johnson
Moulthrop, Howland King
Muller, George Edward
Mullin, James
Munck, 'Charles Emil
Murray, Percy Victor
Murray, Robert
Murray, Warren Edwards
Musgrave, Henry John
Neal, William
Nelson, Henry Severen
Nelson, John Archibald
Nelson, Louis

ROSTER.
Nelson, Nels Lawrence
Newman, Jerome
Nicol, Walter Dair
Nielsen, Niels Andersen
Nilson, Brown Oscar
Norris, Joseph Kenny
Nuckolls, Holland McTyeire
Nuhrenberg, Martin Jurgen
Nutter, Joseph Lyman
0 'Brien, William Lawren~c
Oehne, Frederick
Oeverndiek, Frederick Charles
Ogden, Benjamin Franklin
Ogden, Charles Roy
Ogden, George Henry
·o 'Keefe, Jeremiah
Ollrich, John Frederick
Olsen, John Jacobsen
Olsen, William Christensen
Olson, John
Onslow, Frank
Ordway, William Chase, P. M.
Osgood, Henry Benjamin
Owen, William Lunt
Packer, Orville Hugh
Park, Alex. Dewar
Parmelee, Chauncey Albertus
Parmelee, James Edward
Partridge, Harry
Paterson, William
Patten, Henry
Patterson, George William Hill
Peabody, Edward
Peck, Clarence Edwin
Peltret, Peter Glode
Pennington, Thomas Edwin
Percival, Elijah
Periam, Charles Alfred
Perry, John Wilson
Petersen, Hans
Petersen, Hans Lausten
Petersen, James Albert
Petersen, Niels Mason
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Pettersen, Axel Hagbarth

ROSTER.

-

,.

....

-

Pfingst, Ferdinand Louis
Phelps, George Wesley
Philip, Adrian Sickles, P. M.
Phillips, George Joseph
Phillips, William
Piper, Stephen Livingston
Poar, C';iarles Burnett
Poch, Charles Emil
Pope, James Bond
Porter, George Keith
Potter, Edwin Segsworth
Prahl, Gustave Joseph
Pratt, Charles Henry Sinclair
Price, William Edmond, P. M.
Prince, Henry Gilman
Prior, John Stanley
Quellmalz, Fred
Quinlan, James Henry
Raab, Frederick William
Ramsden, Thomas
Reed, Walter Norman
Reich, Frederick William
Reid, Archibald
Reid, John Miller
Reid, William Henry
Reigle, Henry Herfert
Reinecke, Alfred Walter
Renwick, Myron Hatch, P. M.
Rice, Philip
Richardson, Clifton Page
Rickard, Richard Penrose
Roberts, Marshall Calloway
Roberts, Oliver
Roberts, Richard Morris
Robinson, George
Robinson, Seymour Heman
Robischon, Marie Richard
Rodecker, Elias, P. M.
Rogers, William Clement
Rogers, Charles Sumner
Rolph~ Ronald Taylor
Rood, Frank Henry
Rosich, Nicholas Charles
Roy, John Alex.
Ruckstell, John Rudolph

Rudy, Benjamin Mylin
Saffold, Ray Phillips
Sanborn, Irving Howard
Saul, Eugene Carroll
Saunders, Frederick
Sawdon, Thomas Thompson
Sayles, Harry Albert
Scammon, Meltiah Lancaster
Schloegel, Frederick E. Augustus
Schmitt, Henry Clay
Schott, Carl Conrad
Schrader, Edwin William
Schrader, Otto
8chramm, Carl Christopher F.
Schulz, Paul
Schwarzmann, Ed. Gustave
Sliott, Edwin George
Scott, George Booth
Scott, Shailer Mackintosh, Jr ..
Sears, Harry Dickson
Seaver, Fred Dan
Seel, Ernest
Severance, Isaac Hillman
Sewell, Daniel Robert
Shafer, Frank Ellsworth
Shaver, Hamilton Elijah
Shephard, Bertram Holmes Dcug.
Siemers, John Diedrich
Sigler, John D.
Silovich, John
Silvia, Michael
Sipe, Milo 'faylor ·
Siskron, Charles Alfred
Siskron, Henry George
Smith, David Charles
Smith, Frank Joseph
Smith, Frank Wesley
Smith, Isaac Henry
Smith, James (1)
Smith, James (2)
Smith, William Alvord
Smith, William IrVing
Snell, Frank Scott
Somers, Frank Alton
Soper, Joseph Henry

231

232
Spadoni, Joseph
Spear, Lewis Eugene
Spencer, Alex.
Spinney, John Crozier
Starbird, Ralph
Statham, William Mathew
Steere, Jesse Edmund
Steinmann, Frederick Adolph
Stephenson, William
Stevenson, John
Stewart, Otho
Stewart, William Harley
Stidston, Archibald Wakeha:ir.
Stile, Henry David
Stiller, Reinhold Charles
Stone, John Thomas
Stone, Wilbert H.
Strang, John
Sturgess, Charles William
Summerhayes, William Ruggles
Swenson, John Augustus
Sykes, Frank Centennius
Tabrett, Henry Charles
Taylor, Charles Herbert
Taylor, Fred William
Taylor, George Howes
Taylor, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Terbush, George Finchly
Theller, George Platt
Thomas, Arthur Frederick
Thomas, Edward Henry
Thomas, Frederick G.
Thomas, Henry Jerome
Thomas, Philip Matson
Thompson, Bernard
Thompson, Chadwick
Thompson, Charles J efkins
Thompson, George
· Thompson, Hans
Thompson, John, P. M.
Thompson, Thornton
Thomsen, Einar Tonnessen
Thomsen, Oscar Ludwig
Thomson, Samuel Mehaffy
Thorp, Clement Barton

ROS'l'ER.
Thorp, Henry Walker
Thrall, Frank Hurshall
Tietje, Ernest Henry
'J.'imbrell, John Benjamin
Titchworth, Charles Canfield
'l'oft, Christian Peder
Tourtelotte, William Ellsworth
Townsend, Walter Boyd
Treadwell, Edward Francis
Trevivick, William George
Trowbridge, Henry James
Troyer, Roderic Arthur
Truman, Irwin Joseph, Jr.
Tucker, Edwin Warren, P. M.
Tucker, Edwin Warren, Jr.
Tur,pbull, Albert Carlyle
Tyler, Thomas
Vanatta, Frank Tuller
Van Buren, George Martin
Vandercook, Roberts
Van Orden, Charles Howar<l
Van Orden, George N ewins
Varney, Frank Hastings
Varney, John Warner, Jr.
Varney, Kit Roberts
Voight, George Fritz
Von Wertherh, Henry
Voorhies, Cyrus Firman
Voorhies, Harry
Wagner, Adam, Jr.
Wagner, John, P. M.
Wahl, Robert Gottfried
Waldau, Christian
Walker, George
Wallace, Albert William
·wallace, Lew Edward
Wallace, Robert
Wallace, William
Wallis, Samuel Charles
Warren, Frederick Melville
Watson, John Gibson
Watson, Sage
Watson, William Walter
Weaver, Hammond Shipley
Webster, George Albert

ROSTER.
Weigel, Joel
Welton, John William
West, George Washington
West, John
West, John Charles
West, Joseph Daniel
Westaway, William Charles
Weston, John Arthur
Westwater, Andrew
Wetmore, .William Brown
Weule, Ernest Louis
Whitaker, George Everard
White, Arthur Erwin
White, Charles Harry
White, William Harrison
Whorf, Frederick Ellsworth
Whyte, Malcolm Crawford
Wiedenbeck, George
Wilhelm, John Harry
Wilkins de Winton, William, P. M.

Williamson, Edwin L.
Wilson, G. Hazelton
Wilson, George Hazelton
Wilson, Henry Adams
Wilson, Jamee Andrew, P. M.
Wilson, John
Winkel, George
Winzler, Alfred Charles
Wisker, Fra11k Gavin
W ohlstein, Frederick William
Wolfe, Edward
Wood, John
Woode, Robert
Worden, William Henry, Jr.
Young, George Samuel
Young, John Jamee
Young, Lyman Foster
Ziegler, Charles Louie
Zillmer, Adolph Louie William
-828
Zollner, William Adoplh

WITHDRAWN:
Bryon, Benjamin
Johns, Josiah
Chamberlain, William Louis
Love, Joseph Charles
Dodge, Theophilus Charles
Macauley, Henry Clayton
Hale, Robert Lee
Plymire, David B.
Hoyt, .James Merton
Stone, Jack Livingston
Hoyt, William Albert
Varney, George, Henry
Williams, John Butler

•

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brooks, Ezra Rockwell
Morgan, Dayton Henry
Nelson, Edward Morgan
Claussen, Daniel
Oliver, David, Jr.
Dennett, Louis Charles
Happersberger, Emil
Waterhouse, Frederick Adelbert
EXPELLED:
Duncan, Benjamin Beatty
Babcock, Madison
Berryman, -Georg-e
Coffin, Rudolphus William
Davids, John Windsor
Kerr, William Rodgers
McDermott, James

'233

DIED:
Newkirk, Daniel Irwin
Quinton, George Henry
Rees, Samuel Irving
Somers, Harvey Curtis
Veith, Paul Felix J.
Winslow, Henry Charles

ROSTER.

234

ROSTER.

235

WITHDRAWN:
Scholz, Ernest

ELK GROVE LODGE, No. 173·
Elk Grove, Sacramento County.

DIED:
Bradford, James B.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Ernest W. Springstead, Master,
George M. Taverner, Senior Deacon,
Perley K. Bradford, Sen"ior Warden, Charles B. Bradford, Junior Deacon,
Albert H. Watson, Junior Warden, Edward G. Stephenson, Marshal,
Wm. Thomas Stephenson, Treasurer, Aubrey M. Leavitt, Steward,
George Shaw Williamson, Secretary, Joseph Rusell, Steward,
Andrew Elliott, Tyler,

DRYTOWN LODGE, No. i74
Drytown, Amador County.
Stated Me(ltings, Wednesday of or next preceding Fnll Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Leslie Lynch, Master,
Trevor Wes ton, Senior Deacon,
Moise Roos, Senior Warden,
Fred Butler LeMoin, Jun. Dea.con,
Arthur Dach, Junior Warden,
Chas. Harrison Marchand, Marshal,
George Choat Jennings, ,':M-easurer, John Milton Hinkson, Steward,
Allen Lee McWayne, Secretary,
Claude Wilson, Steward,
Thomas Silva, Chaplain
Guissepi Bo, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Alltucker, Henry, P. M.
Alltucker, George Henry
·Barry, Edmund Edward
Bradford, George Bruce, P. M.
Bradford, Hugh Barr, P. M.
Bradford, Pearley Kilbourn
Bradford, William Barton
Bradford, Charles Bruce
Ehrhardt, Frederick William
Ehrhardt, Henry Lester
Elliott, John
Elliott, Christopher Adam, P. M.
Elliott, Andrew
Foster, William E. .
Freeman, Isaac Lake, P. M.
Gage, Arthur Delos, P. M.
Gage, Stanley Robinson
Glann, Peter
Gray, Arthur Irwin
Hasman, Joseph Lewis
Haviland, Phillip
Herbert, Louis
Hogaboom, Benjamin Baldwin
Hoover, Benjamin Van Zandt
Johanson, Carl Johan
Jorden, Daniel Obediah
Kelley, James Monroe
Korn, Joseph, P. M.
Krull, Ane . Ayets
Lewis, Edmund William
Leimback, John Herbert

Leavitt, Aubrey Maurice
Leavitt, Albert Fletcher
Mahone, Robert Henry
McConnell, Thaddeus Curtis
McKee, James Anderson
Mealer, Thomas Jefferson
Messenger, Richard
Morse, Elbert Oscar
Reith, Jesse Lee, P. M.
Richards, John Lincoln
Rowley, Eugene
Runyon, William Smith
Russell, Joseph
Smith, Gideon Henry
Springstead, Ernest Willard
Stephenson, !gal Kennedy
StepheDBon, John Nichols
Stephenson, William Thomas, P. M.
Stephenson, John Francis, P. M.
Stephenson, George Edward, P. M.
Stewart, Norman Ives
Taverner, George Moore
Tribble, Claud Duval
Trueblood, Edward Ellsworth
Ulman, Frederick George
Walther, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Watson, Albert Henry
Watson, George Franklin
Wells, Cary Thomas
Williamson, George Shaw
Yenger, William Henry
---62

MEY.BERS:
Bawden, Thomas P.
Moore, J. Henry
Bo, Guiseppi
Ralph, Joseph Henry
Buskin, William J.
Roos, Moise
Dach, Arthur
Rouse, Thomas
Eudey, John
Scoble, William
Evans, Robert
Shields, Charles Henry
Hinkson, John Milton, P. M.
Silva, Thomas
Honey, Church Thomas
Tiffany, Edward Vestor
Jennings, George Choat
Weston, Trevor
LeMoin, Fred Butler, P. M.
Weymouth, Wilbur Shadrach
Marchand, Charles Harrison, P. M. Wilson, Claude, P. M.
McWayne, Allen Lee
-23

ANTIOCH LODGE, No. 175·
Antioch, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

.

Otto Em\! Klengel, Master,
Fred'k Cameron Woolcott, Sen. Dea.,
Archie Valentine McFaul, Sen. War., Ernest Herman Ward, Jun. Deacon,
Bruce Forrester Brown, Jun. War., James Renwick Weir, Marshal,
Robert Harkinson, Treasurer,
Collins Woodruff Keeney, Steward,
Josiah Rio Baker, Secretary,
William Uren, Steward,
Henry Fuller Beede, Chaplain,
Stephen Horace McKellips, Tyler.

236

ROSTER:

MEMBERS:
Abbott, .Joshua Plummer, F. M.
Keeney, Collins Woodruff
Anderson, Oscar
Kennerly, George Oliver
Baker, .Josiah Rio, P. M.
Kent, Harry Wallace
Beede, Harry McNulty
Klengel, Otto Emil
Beede, Charles Frank Tyler
Livingston, Frank William
Lomax, William Benoni
Beede, Henry Fuller, P. M.
Beede, Ralph Merti.ll, P. M.
Lowe!, .John
Belsha"w, William Walter
Maupin, Lan
Bermingham, Samuel
Moore, Leroy Wilburn, P. M.
Bonslett, .Jacob A.
Moore, Walter Shelby, P. M.
Brown, Bruce Forrester
Mead, Louis Durant
Bruce, William Elmer
Minaker, George Alex.
Campbell, Robert Paul
McFaul, Archie Valentine
McFaul, .Tames Reid
Carter, .Tames, P. M.
McKellips, Stephen Horace
Cox, .John Thomas, P. M.
Montgomery, Curtis Franklin
Clarke, Edwin Gilding
MuPphy, William Green
Cleaves, Steven Chase
Cole, William Fawsett
Nellis, Walter
Croxon, Warren George Hubbard,
Nicholls, .Joseph Robert Vincent
DeWitt, .John Wallace
Peterson, Oscar Amil
Durham, Lee Bartlett Holt
Potvin, Henry
Dunningan, Marcus Wesley
Rapp, Edward Percy
Rattan, Frank
Eby, Charles Lincoln
Ellis, .Tames Wardrobe
Rogers, Orlando Newton
"Rose, Willis Star
George, Worth Scott
Glass, .Tames Riley
Rother, Frederick Garlip
Hamlin, Marshall Calvin
Rouse, .John Collins
Hansen, Rasmus Emil
Smith, George Wallace
Harkinson, Daniel Donald
South, William Richard
Harkinson, .John Lincoln
Story, Walter
Harkinson, Robert, P. M.
Trythall, .John Henry, P. M.
Hartley, Anderson Corbin, P. M.
Uren, William
Hay, William Edgar
Veale, Richard Reines
Hazlett, .Tames
Ward, Ernest Herman
Hooper, Frank .Joseph
Wilkening, Frederick
Horr, Charles Perry
Wightman, .Joel David
.Jacobs, Morris Harris
Williams, Thomas Morgan
.Johnson, FrankHenry
Woolcott, Frederick Cameron
Joslin, Arba Vandenberg
Worrell, Edwin Carter
.Toslin, Royal Tregea
Wright, George Creighton, P. M.
.Jost, Frederick
-81
WITHDRAWN:
Belshaw, Charles Mortimer
McGeorge, Verne Adrian
Smith, Robert Tangier
DIED:
Y ets, Richard

ROSTER.

237

PHOENIX LODGE, No. 178.
San Bernardino, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month,

•
OFFICERS:
Mervyn Jacobs Newburg, Master,
Elisha Elias Lapelle, Senior Deacon,
Jesse Wm. Curtis, Se~ Warden, Rollins Potter, Junior Deacon,
John Lee Anderson, Junior Warden, John Foster, Marshal,
John Anderson, Sr., Treasurer, .
Walter Byron Howes, Steward,
Francis Leroy Holcomb, Secretary, Charles Siddall Phillips, Steward,
Wesley Thompson, Chaplain,
Sydney Mee, Tyler.

"

Absalom, David Reese
Aldridge, David Lehigh
Allen, .Tonas
Anderson, .John Lee
Andreson, .John, Sr.
Aspenwall, Francis Thomas
Bailey, William Allen
Baillie, Frederick Hollister
Baldwin, Melville Jay
Barker, Donald McGregor
Barnum, .John Harold
Barrows, Charles Edgar
Barrows, Elmer Arthur
Barton, .John William, P. M.
Bechtel, Daniel Snyder
Beck, Charles August
Beck, Web!ilter
Beggs, Henry Jackson
Beimer, Antl;lony
Biestman, Bernard
Blackburn, .Tames .Jackson
Blair, William .Jackson
Blanchard, John Frede;rick
Bodkin, William George
Bowman, Thomas Hilt
Brown, .John William
Brown, .Joseph

MEMBERS:
Burbeck, William Lee
Burkhart, .John B.
. Campbell, Chalon Guard
Carpenter, Daniel .Jerome
Carpenter, Harry Griffin
Carr, .John Louis
Chase, Herbert Harrison
Chase, Phillip .Tames
Champion, Douglas
Clapp, Thom11.s John Sercome
Clark, Hiram
Clark, .John Davis
Cleghorn, .John
Cleghorn, Lorenzo Dow
Cole, Charles Davis
Colliver, .Tefferson Thomas
Colliver, .Tohp. Adams
Colliver, SimeQJ# Robinson
Conway, Michael
Coomes, William Edward
Costello, Patrick .Tames
Covalt, George Wallace
Culbertson, .Toh:r;t
Culverhouse, William Sylvester
Curtis, .Jesse William
Curtis, William .Tesse
Daoust, Simeon

238
Davis, Andrew
Davis, James H.
Desmofld, Louis Alex.
Doran, Arthur L.
Emery, Valentine
Fairall, Howard Lee
Foltz, George
Fording, William Hunter
Foster, Alfred Brian
Foster, John
Fox, George Chester
Garst, Daniel Edward
Gates, Harry
Gee, Cornelius Columbus
Gibson, James Alex., P. M.
Goodrich, George Lemuel
Guthrie, Harrison Hazlett
Haile, Smith Cook
Ham, Harrison Howard
Harold, Andrew Douglas
Harwood, Gustavus
Hecht, Milton Ephraim
Henning, William Canfield
Herbert, Lewis Charles
tiolcomb, Francis Leroy
Holden, John Alex.
Hook, John
Howland, Frederick Edson
Hubbard, Anthony Gerhard
Hubbard, ·Walter, P. M.
Huffman, Ira B.
Hulsizer, John
Hyam, Thowald
Johnson, Albert
Johnson, Edward Powell
Johnson, James Hunter
Jones, Griffith Isaac
Kendall, George Theo.
Kennedy, Robert James
Kerr, James Stewart
King, Robert Calvin
Knapp, Calvin Reason
Krausman, Joseph
Lapelle, Elisha Elias
Lauranc, Adoplh

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Leisenring, Frederick Gideon
LeRoy, Charles Edwin
Lewis, Charles Frederick
Littlejohn, James Henry
Lloyd, George Washington
Lothrop, Luther Ramsdale
Mack, John Alex.
Mack, Royal Kegmer
Magoffin, Frank Hooker, P. M.
Margetson, Frederick George Jame!I
Marks, Joseph
Marshall, John Albert
McCarter, John
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Jr.
McFarlane, Thomas Louis, Sr.
McGregor, James Charles
Mee, Sydney, P. M.
Metzger, Edward DeLos
Miller, George U.
Miller, James Blaine
Mills, Henry William
Mills, Theo. Hardin
Moffatt, James
Morgan, Josiah Wheeler
Morris, Daniel Voorhees Orsman
Mortenson, Christian Nelson
Mudgett, Elvin Leroy
Mudgett, William
Newberg, Merwyn Jacobs
Nichols, William Buell
Orme, Thomas Whitefield, P. M.
Oster, Frank Frederick
Ousterhout, Fred Griffith
Oldaker, George Gad
Owens, Charles W., P. M.
Owens, Walter Rufus
Painter, George Washington
Parker, John Wesley
Parker, Lemuel
Parker, Robert Bryant
Penhollow, Phillip Albert
Perkins, Nathaniel
Perry, Morgan
Phelps, John Wesley
- Phillips, Charles Siddall

•
I

Phillips, Frank Chandoes
Phillips, Joseph Wilber
Pierce, George Strunk
Poole, Charles Augustus
Poppett, Robert
Porter, Lewis Edwin
Porter, William Robert
Potter, Rollins
Reese, George Jury
Reese, Sanford Marian
Rhinehart, John Taylor
Roberts, Edwin David
Roberts, Horace Jewell
Robertson, William Jay
Roos, Bo. Christian
Russell, James
Sayre, Edwin Weaver
Seay, Chester
Seeman, John J.
Shaw, David Albert
Shaw, Mack Bailey, P. M.
Shuford, Thomas Robert
Shuster, William Clement
Skinner, Guy Elmer
Skinner, William Wright
- Smithen, Walter
Smitheram, William
Smith, Newell Noble
Smith, Sanford Stephen
Snow, Marcus Leonard
Soule, William Lloyd Garrison
Sprott,·Thomas William
Stephens, George Milan
Stone, David P.
Talmadge, Francis LeBanon
Talmadge, William Seymore
Barrett, Simeon Alphonso
Beek, John H.

..
Boley, Eldridge Mountford
Bressler, Francis Milton
Chute, Austin S.

•

239

Taylor, Lewis Nathan
Terrass, Milford Byron, P. M.
Terry, John Yale
Theobalds, Newton Lyle
Thomas, Alfred Bennett
Thomas, John Samuel
Thompson, Victor Little
Thompson, Wesley
Tinkham, Stephen Howard
Tunison, Lafayett
Turner, Robert Lee
Tyler, John Hugh
Umbs, Jesse
Upson, Orin.. Alva
van Meter, Charles Edward
Waite, Sydney Payne
Walker, Walter Waldemar
Wallace, Albert Ernest
Waters, Byron Brewster
Wiggens, William R.
Wegnori, Henzy Francis
Wells, James Thomas
White, Michael Lewis
Williamson, George Edward
Wilson, Charles Henry
Wilson, Clarence Lyle
Wilson, Newton
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson
Wilson, Thomas Jonathan, P. M.
Wilson, William Henry
Winn, William Spencer
White, Eugene Lee
Whiteman, John Stephen
Yount, Charles Edwin
Young, Elmer
Younger, Francis S.
-216

WITHDRAWN:
Bold, Francis James
Hawks, Charles William
Schuster, John
DIED:
Gooding, Joseph Ephriam
Grow, Samuel Lorenzo
Rolfe, Horace Cowen

240

ROSTER.

MENDOCINO LODGE, No. 179.
Mendocino, Mendocino County.
Statecl Meetings, Saturday of or ·next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Roy Moore, Senior Deacon,
Wm. True Wallace, Jr., Master,
James Wilson Todd, Senipr Warden, Charles Foster Bowden, Jun. Deacon,
John C. Philbrick, Junior Warden, William True Wallace, Marshal,
Perley Maxwell, Steward,
Henry Herbert Jarvis, Treasurer,
Charles Oscar Packard, Secr(!tary, Gustaf Henry Swanson, Steward,
John Arthur Chambers, Chaplain, James Doyle, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Flood, Emery Newell
Ahlin, Nils Emil
Flood, William Henry
Allen, Leonard Joel
Foster, Edwin Star
Anderson, George Levi
Fraser, James William, P. M.
Ayer, Oliver Daniel
Furlong, Arthur Thomas
Ayer, Samuel Lucine
Gilkison, Melville Allen
Barker, William Henry
Gray, Charles Thomas
Barnes, Allen Percival
Gray, Harold Cyrus
Beckwith, George Lewis
Gregory, Lester Claud
Bennett, William Henry Horace
Grindle, Joshua
Berry, John Charles
Guthardt, Philip
Bither, Lawrence Hartson
Hall, Frank
Bodell, Robert
Halling, Frederick, P. M.
Bowden, Charles Foster
Henningsen, Charles August
Burwaeh, Henry J effereon
Hanson, Hans Peter
Burlingame, Homer Sherwood
Hoak, Newman Ervine
Byrnes, Ralf Rauley
Huff, Charles Edward
Carpenter, John Jacob·
Jacobs, Jacob Dircks
Chambers, John Arthur, P. M.
Jarvis, Henry Herbert
Clark, Byron
Johnson, Nels
Coombe, William Boyd
Johnston, Andrew Earl
Corrigan, Jaines
Keen, James Edward
Cox, Joseph Baird
Keller, Willis Alfonso
Daniels, Percy Lenwood
Kent, Nathaniel Warren
Dart, Frederick Willi.am, P. M.
Ledger, Fred
Dart, Joseph Howe
Leishman, John
Dodge, Jefferson Lee
Lindberg, John Peter, P. M.
Doig, James Muir
MacDonald> John
Doyle, Jamee
Madsen, Mads J argen
Drumb, Samuel A.
Maxwell,
Perley
Durst, Fred M.
McClelland, George
Dykeman, John Joseph

ROSTER.
McClelland, George Blain
Rush, Barnard
McClelland, James Garfield
• Rushing,-John W.
McColgan, Dennis
Ryan, John Carbrett
McElroy, John Henry
Saleig, Edgar Budd
McDonald, John Kenneth
Sangs_ter, Donald, P. M.
· McKay, Andrew
Scott, Alonzo D.
Moeller, Edward
Scott, Edward Slaughter
Moore, Roy
Severance, Frank Billings
Smith, Frederick Hall
Nelson, Joseph Alvin, P. M.
Newman, Andrew
Smith, Martin Thomas
Stanley Otha Lonzo
Norbery, Charles Antone
Stanley, Perry Alfred
Openlander, William Henry
Stone, Walter Morison, P. M.
Packard, Charles Oscar
Penther, Carl Frederick
Stuckey, Simon Fillmore
Steudeman, Henry Clay
Perkins, Fred Hillman
Perry, John Edward, P. M.
Stickney, Fred Walter
Speer, Samuel, P. M.
Peterson, James Louis
Sutter, Richard Wesley
Peterson, Thomas Henry
Swanson, Gusto£ Henry
Philbrick, John C.
Pitner, Oran Berry
Taunlund, Olof
. Todd, James 'Wilson
Popp, Fred William
Turner, William Price
Puller, William
Reinertsen, Johannes Andrias
Wahlstrom, Carl Gustaf
Rewcastle, James Goodie
Wallace, William True, P. M.
Wallace, William True, Jr.
Rice, James Charles
Richards, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Weiss, Frederick, P. M.
Ross, John Simpson, P. M.
Wells, Robert Kerr
Robinson, ThomaR Alexander
White, Clarence Ulmer, P. M.
Rushing, John Willshire
Wood, Casimer Jackson, P. M.
Zavitz, Garfield Nelson
-122
Russell, Roderick Dhu
WITHDRAWN:.
*Savage, Louis Andrew

French, Robert Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Patton, Jos~ph Warren Dias
SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Loveland, Stimulous Miles
DIED:
Clark, John Luther
Donaghue, Edward John
• Restored d urine the year .
• 16

Marshal, George Bates
Smith, George Canning

ROSTER.

242

ROSTER.

PETALUMA LODGE, No. 180.
Petaluma, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frederick Anton N auert, Master,
John Alexander Olmsted, Se~. ·Dea.,
George Willard Gill, Senior Warden, Park Anderson VanBebber, Jr. Dea.,
James McFadden, Junior Warden, Wm. Charles Stradling, Marshql,
Wm. Thomas Spridgen, Treasurer, James Augusta Parker, Steward,
Wm. Sherman DeTurk, Secretary, Frederick Charles Schluter, Steward,
John J>artridge, Chaplain,
John Olsen, Tyler.
Adame, John Quincy
Adame, William Samuel
Anderson, Alex.
Anderson, John Alfred
Allen, George Frank, P. M.
Ayers, William David
Arthur, Jamee C.
Bauer, John
Bell, Wellie Samuel
Berri, Vittore
Blim, Peter J oeeph, P. M.
Bloom, Adolph John
Bowen, William Eladeit
Bowen, Alfred Daniel
Bowers, Alphonzo Benjamin
Bowles, Scott
Bowles, Bourbon
Brainerd, Henry Paine, P. M.
Branch, George Byron
Brooke, Sylvester ·
Brown, Frank Huston
Brown, Robert Henry
Brown, Robert Spear
Brunner, Robert
Burde}l, Jamee Black
Butler, Robert John
Button, Isaac V.
,Byce, Lyman C., P. M.
Camm, Edward Irving
Camm, John Lincoln, P. M.
Campigli, Charles

MEMBERS:
· Cantel, Eugene
Champlin, Charles Chaffee
Coate, Henry R.
Colline, Frank Miller
Corliss, Albert
Crane; Tarleton Lee
Cromwell, Frank Arlington, P. M;
Crossley, Nathaniel Mason
Dean, Chauncey Theo., P. M.
Dean, James Burroughs
·Denman, Frank Hardenbergh
DeTurk, William Sherman, P. M.
·Denny, Thomas Carmen
Dillon, Charles Hardy, P. M.
Drees, Ernest Emil
Dreyfuss, Edward
Dunton, Oscar
Edwards, William Philips
Eddy, William Samuel
Engel, Michael
Evans, Edward Wm. M., P. M.
Fairbanks," Hiram Tolbert
Fairbanks, Dolph Brice, P. M.
Forbes, Hugh Whittier
·Fuller, Harve
Gale, Wallace Samuel
George, J aeon Rodney
Giacomini, Natale
Gill, George Willard
Gossage, Harry Sherman
Graham, Jonathan Harvey

,.

•

•

Grandi, Salvatore
Grant, Daniel
Grant, Henry Delano
Gray, Henry Charles .
Gray, Fred Lafayette
Green, Lyman, P. M.
Gross, Ludwig Lamprecht
Guldner, Walter Adelbert
Hamilton, George Washington
Hardin, Andrew Evan
Haskell, William Barnabee
Haubrich, Leonard
Haskins, Thomas Jefferson
Hazelmire, Frederick
Henry, John
Herr~n, Frank Crail
Higbee, Hiram Bedell
Hinkle, John Baker
Hitchcock, Frank Newton, P. M.
Hill, Alex. Blaky
Hoag, James W.
Hopkins, Henry Clay
Hopkins, Samuel Judd
Howard, John Charles
Horwege, Augustus William, P. M.
Huntington, Horace Hutchings
H11slel', Edward Aloia
Jensen, Hans
Johnson, Robert Francie
Johnson, John Eber
Kahn, Achille
Knock, Charles
Kyle, Arthur Leonard
Lackey, Alex.
Lawler, John
Lewis, James Hall
Lippitt, Edward Sp~lding, P. M.
Lippitt, Frank Kavanaugh, P. M.
Lovejoy, George Palmer
Maclay, Thomae
Mardis, John D.
Martin, Samuel
McDonald, Gilbert
McFadden, James
McFadden, John Thomas

McFadden, Reuben
·McGuire, Thomas Talbot
McKillop, Dugald
McMullin, Smith
McMartin, John Alex.
McMurtry, Mathew
McNear, George Plummer
Merritt, John
Meyer, Jacob Frederick
Middleton, John Henry
Miller, George Anton
Miller, Theo.
Mills, William Andrew
Murphy, George Bennett
Nauert, Frederick Anton
Nauert, Frederick Anton, Jr.
Nelson, Francis Victor
Neuburger, Morrie
Olsen, John
Olmsted, John Alex.
Ormsby, Ernest Walter
Ott, George Herbert
Ottolini, Ferdinando
Parker, James Augustus
Parrish, David Franklin
Partridge, John
Penry, John Edward
Phelps, Frank Tracy
Phillipe, Abraham Lincoln
Phillips, Frank Harry
Pitts, Isaac Jasper
Poehlmann, Conrad
Potter, Emanuel Andrew
Purvine, Thomas Byron
Purvine, William Burton
Rankin, Lowry Elmer
Reed, Clarence Ellsworth
Reynolds, Edward Henry
Riese, Herman William
Risk, David Rankin
Roberts, Henry John
Rodd, George Blackburn
Roeeburgh, Allen
Robinson, William, P. M.
Rohrer, Charles Frederick

.243

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

244
Ruffin, David Taylor '
Rundall, Napoleon B.
Samuels, Ernest Robert
Sartori, Victor
Schlicker, Frederick
Schlueter, Frederick Charles
Scott, John Columbus
Sharpe, Chauncey Oscar
Simidian, Mihram M.
Skinner, Arthur Tapin
Smith, George Neilson, P. M.
Smith, Harry Francis
Steiger, Peter Joseph
Spridgen, Willllim Thomas, P. M.
Stayner, Charles Allen
St. Jon11; Silas Cady
Stradling, William Charles
Strauss, David
Stl).ll, John
Sweed, Philip
Sweetman, George Richard
Taft, Chester Kimball
Taft, Hiram Fayette, P. M.
Taft, Louis Russell
Thomas, Charles Edward
Thomas, Walter Scott
Thomas, William David

RUSSIAN RIVER LODGE, No. 18r

Tibbetts, Arthur Living!lton; P. M.
Torr, Charles Lafayette
Towne, Walter
Tupper, John Henry
Tuttle, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Van Bebber, Park Andrew
Van Bebber, Peter
Vender Naillen, Edmund Lewis
Van Marter, William Henry
Ve.ale, William Roe, P. M.
Wakefield, Orrin Lewis
Wallr.ce, Robert G., P. M.
Ward, Erastus Caselton
Weber, Herman, P. M.
Weil, Adolph Leopold
Wereley, George
West, Frederick Charles
Weston, Harry Mccurdy
Weston, Henry Little
Weyhe, Paul C.
'
Wilder, William
Willard, Thomas
Winsor, John Henry
Woods, Robert
Zartman; William
Zartman, William Henry
Zook, Frank Kurtz
-206

, Windsor, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Fnll Moon.
OFFICERS:

No Certificate.

WITHDRAWN:
Decarli, Victor
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Jessen, Charles

Girard, Horace Thornton

tiark, Walter
Crippen, Commodore Perry
Goshen, Marcus Dyatheka
Kuhnle, Fred
Mack, Erick

DIED:
Mitchenen, Jonathan
Par:\!:, Theodore Temple
Troop, Oscar .Franklin
Walls, David
Whiting, Henry Chester

245

..

MEMBERS:
Barnes, Edwin Harrison, P. M.
Maddux, Lee
Bell, Warren
Maddux, Willhtm
Berns, Jacob William
MaKinson, Herbert Arthur
Bosch, John David
Martin, Cristian Julius, P. M.
Carter, Andrew Jackson
Mather, John
Uooper, John David
Mccutchan, George Francis
Corsi, Ferdinand
Mccutchan, William Charles
Crosbie, Jumes
Misener, Albert Fillmore
Cunningham, Reuben Henry
Mitchell, William James
Davis, John Martin
Mitchell, John Wesley
Eckle, Tobias Louis
Nowlin, Andrew Brail
Edmondson, William J ohu
Opfer, Frank Augustus S.
Emery, Fred Artemus
Overton, Theo. Talbot
Estinghousen, Wm. Adam, P. M.
Peterson, Peter Hansen
Frey, Peter
Pohley, Joseph Charles
Graham, James William
Pool, Charles Augustus, P. M.
Green, John James
Pool, Frank Johnson
Hall, Rufus Lee
Pool, Harry Edward
Hembree, Andrew Jackson
Poch, Augustus Frederick
Hembree, Atlas Thompson
Pryor, Fredd Orlan.do
Russell, Hugh Alex.
Highbie, Earl David
Hoffer, Charles Augustus
Root, Charles Wesley
Jacobson, John Henry
Sheppard, James Buchanan, P. M.
Jones, Cellie
Small, William Henry
Kruse, John Anton
Snook, Edward Birdsey
Laughlin, Grant Alex.
Snow, Wilford Manhattan
Lavelle, John
Stark, Claude
Lavelle, William Thomas
Tartter, Frederick
Lee, Stacy
Temple, Richard
Leech, Albert Earnest
Trowbridge, George Tyler, P. M.
Lehn, Louis
Tuttle, James
Leslie, Thomas
Wilson, Lawrence Henderson, P. M .
Lindsay, Walter Clark
Wilson, Julius
Litton, ;:rhomas Buckman
Wilds, George Edward
Macy, William Clinton
Yates, Thomas Miller, P. M.
Maddux, James Everet
-71

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Sherer, John Dillon
Stanton, Claude Devon
Stebbins, Cyril Adelbert
Stewart, Charles William
Stewart, William John, P. M.

WITHDRAWN:
Leslie, John
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Monti, Tisiano

Davis, Job Evans

DIED:
Trudgett, William John

-

Traynham, Henry .Vaughp.
Ward, John Cannedy
Wilkins, Robert Watson
Woodland, James Ward
Zumwalt, Marion

247

-44

WITHDRAWN:
White, John Cobb

•

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT. OF DUES:
Tolson, William Dement
DIED:
Gillaspy, Robert Cleveland

King, Thomas Carroll

MERIDIAN LODGE No. 182.
College City, Colusa County.

CLEAR LAKE LODGE, No. 183.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full !.foon.

Lower Lake, Lake County.
OFFICERS:

Douglas Cramer, Master,
G. Conrad Meckfessil, Senior Deacon,
Samuel A. Pendleton, Sen. Warden, George Herman Christian, Jun. Dea.,Ed. M. Devendorf, Junior· Warden, John Marshall Peart, Marshal,
James Ward Woodland, Treasurer, Harry E. Hyde, Steward,
Roscoe Rahm, Secretary,
Peter Grevie, Jr., Steward,
Guy H . Frazer, Chaplain,
John Canaday Ward, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Langenour, John Hamilton
Abraham, Ira
Levy, Aaron B.
Briscoe, David Frisbie
Levy, David Louis .
Cramer, Douglas
Loeke, Charles Henry
Christian, George Herman
Loorya, David Solomon
Devendorf, Edwin M.
Marders, Cay Nelson, P. M.
Evans, Foster Mott
Martin, Julius, P. M.
Frazier, Guy H.
McCracken, Thomas Jefferson
Gabby, Robert Smiley
Meekiessel, George Conran, P . M .
Gale, John Perry
Mitchell, James Edgar
Grevie, Peter
Moore, George William, P. iv.:.
Grove, Walter
Myers, John Henry
Hardy, Herbert H.
Myers, Lorenzo Dow
Hollister, John Wilson
Pendleton, Samuel Alvah, P. M.
Howell, William Franklin
Peart, John Marshall
Hyde, Harry Edward
Rahm, Roscoe, P. M.
Kearth, George Wash. Lincoln
Sherer, James Hamilton, P. M.
Knox, Ellis Langdon

'

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next prE-ceding Full Moon
OFFICERS:

-

Herbert Levy, Senior Deacon,
Luke Evans, Master,
Wm. Jardine Clayton, Seti. Warden, Francis Marion Herndon, J. Deacon,
Jas. Dunbar Brenard, Ju11. Warden, ... . ........ .. . . . . Marshal,
William Henry Smith, Treasurer,
. . ...... . ... ... . . . Steward,
.............. . .. . Steward,
Frank Akins, Secretary,
Thomas Loranzo Castellaw, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Kennedy, Albert Hiram
Kirtley, John Elliott
Levy, Morris
Levy, Herbert, P. M.
Morrell, Albert Fairfield
Pardee, Bill Jennings, P. M.
Pardee, George Washington
Palatine, Samuel Thomas
Rawson, William Busfield
Reynolds, William Clarence
Snow, George Horace
Smith, William Henry
Tyler, John Alex.
Wayne, George Washington
Wilson, Henry Harrison, P. M.,-30

Akins, Frank
Arbuthnot, Phillip Stewat"t M.
Bell, Joseph Eugene
Brenard, James Dunbar
Brewer, Herbert William
Castellaw, Thomas Lorenzo
Clayton, William Jardine, P. M.
Crawford, John Naff
Cohn, Abraham
Evans, Luke, P. M.
Forshe11, Frank Hamilton
Frank, Leon Harrison, P. M.
Herndon, Francis Marion
Jones, Daniel, P. M.
Kennedy, Hiram

248

ROS'l'ER.

.ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Bishop, Elijah
Kingren, Jacob William
Borden, Joseph Hea
· Lane, John Crosby, Jr.
Callnon, Eugene William, P. :M:.
Lane, John Crosby, Br:, P. M.
Chalfant, Aaron, P. M.
Lane, William Rufus
Chalfant, Harold Philbrick, P. M .
Litchfield, Frank
Christie, Fred Abasolem
Lobree, Philip
Clark, John
Mahlman, William Theo.
Davis, William Oliver
Marsau, David Allen
Ferry, Peter Christopher
Miller, Augustin
Gardner, Robert Corllis
N ew:field; Aaron
Gillmore, Emmett Patter, P. M.
0 'Brien, Chester Francis
Griffith, Forestes Lawson
Peterson, Chauncy Edward
Halliday, Joseph Crockett, P . M.
Phelps, Forestes Purcevil
Hargrave, Edwin Willard
Randall, Henry Joshua
Haskell, William Burton
Rasmussen, Martin
Haskell, William Hascombe, P. M. Redemeyer, Luther
Hathaway, Robert S. Baker
Sanford, John Bunyon
Hicks, Arthur W. Trenholme
Strbnetta, Antone
Whelpton, Charles
Howe, Henry, P. M.
Hummel, James Clarence
Waltrous, Robert Winthrope
Hussey, Richard
Williams, Richard Holbrooke
Iversen, Soren, P. M.
-43

SIERRA VALLEY LODGE, No. 184.
Sierraville, Sierra County•.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next pr-;ceding FuH 'Moon.
OFFICERS:

William J. Copren, Senior Deacon,
Samuel H. Crow, Master,
Owen N. Webber, Senior Warden, Thomas E. Miller, Junior Deacon,
William E. Miller, Junior Warden, Gaines L. Coates, Marshal,
W. E. Mercer, Steward,
Daniel J. Webber, Treasurer,
Earl Feiss, Steward,
James Morgan, Secretary,
Jarred Strang, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Morgan, James
Blinman, John
Nagle, George
Chandler, William Henry, P. M.
Nichols, Albert S.
Coates, Gaines Lane, P. M.
Nichols, Herbert Levi
Crow, Samuel Harrold, P. M. ,
.Nichols, William Llewellyn
Dennis, William
Nichols, Herbert Osma
Dolley, Linus
Olsen, Jacob John
Dolley, Walter John
Parker, Robert H.
Fairchild, Thomas Manly
Patterson, David B.
Hamlin, Edmund. Higgins, P. M.
Place1 John Norton
Hamlin, Edmund Henry
Pritchard, Maurice
Hockett, Robert Vista!
Rowland, Francis Marrion
Howk, John Simeon
Strang, Jarred
Humphrey, Frank Ellis
Toomy, John Shriver
Humphrey, John Butte
Turner, Harry Augustus
Johnson, Julius
Webber, Daniel Jasper
Kynoch, Walter Anson
Webber, Owen Nathan
Louden, Robert
Wood, George
Maxwell, George Wilbert
Miller, William Egbert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Carter, Albert Edward
Castle, Curtis Harvey
Coast, Owen Wesley

EVENING STAR LODGE, No. 186.
Etna Mills, Siskiyou County.

Point Arena, Mendocino County.

Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next pri<ceding Full Moon.

OFFICEES:

OFFICERS:

•

Dart, Ewing Kent
Getchell, Harvey Osgood
Horgen, William
Phillips, Guy Alonzo

-37

CLAIBORNE LODGE, No. 185.

Richard H. Williams, Master,
Henry Halliday, Senior Warden,
Augustin Miller, Junior Warden;
John Clark, Treasurer,
Emmett P. Gillmore, Secretary,
William Perchet, Chaplain,

249

Chester Francis O'Brien, S. Deacon.
Samuel ·c. Hunter, Junior Deacon,
James Richard Taylor, Marshal,
James Dunn,. Steward,
Robert S. B. Hathaw;i.y, ·Steward,
Antone Stornetta, Tyl~r. · • · ·

".

Charles W. Nutting, Master,
Lucius Stafford Wilson, Jr., Sr. Dea.,
Charles Wm. Kist, Senior Warden, Alexander Parker, Jr., Jun. Deacon,
Edward Munroe Hall, Jun. Warden, John Wallace McBride, Marshal,
Fred George Smith, Treasurer,
Charles Jenner, Steward,
Martin Marx, S ecretary,
Orson Valentine Green, Steward,
Robert Pey Taylor, Tyler.

•

ROSTER.

250

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Adams, John Howe, P. M.
Kist, Charles William, P. M.
Baird, Charles .
Marx, Martin, P. M.
Barandan, Simon
McBride, John Wallace, P. M.
Bathurst, Edwin William, P. M,
Messner, John Frederick
Benson, John
Messner, John Martin
Henson, OsP.ar Leonard
Mitchell, George Henry, P. M.
Billings, Edward Lawrence
Nutting, Charles Wilber, P. G. M.
Dannenbrink, Henry
Parker, Alex., Jr., P. M,
Diggles, James Allen
Parker, John
Geney, Henry Ferdinand,. P. M.
Rostetter, George
Green, Orson Valentine, P. M.
Smith, Fred George, P. M.
Haines, William Homer
Spooner, George Cummings, P. M.
Hall, Edward Monroe
Swain, William Cartwright
Hansen, Hans
Taylor, Robert Pey
Hughes, James Robert
Traverse, John
Hughes, John Striker
Wallis, Albert
Hughes, Lewis
Wilson, Lucius Stafford
Isaacs, Walter
Wilson, Lu!'.ius Stafford, Jr.
Jenner, Charles, P. M.
-37

Einfalt, John Michael, P. M.
Emlen, Clement Henry
]!'armer; Edward Henry·
Gubsor, August
Haydock, William Henry, P. M.
Hecker, Henry, P. M,
Hellstrom, Carl Axel
°Keaton, George
Keith, John Mathew, P. M.
Kilpatrick, Samuel William
Lewis, George Martin
Lewis, James William
Lennon, Mark
Linnell, Allen Sylvester
Martin, Albion Alonzo
Martin, John Henry
McCoy, Arthur Howard
McDuffee, Henry Lynn
Miner, John Franklin
Moore, Oscar Thomas
Moore, Samuel Thomas, P. M.
Moore, Walter Scott, P. M.
Morey, Harvey Chapin, P. M.
Mount, Malcolm
Myers, James Henry
Onyon, Fred Gage
Parmelee, Phinias Ward
Patison, James Clair, P. M.
Peterson, Frederick
Percy, William J.
Phelps, William
Porter, Walter Sherman
Pratt, Charles Francis

KEITH LODGE, No. 187.
Gilroy, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Clair Patison, Master,
George Arthur Haydon, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Lee Wild, Senior Warden, James Henry Wright, Junior Deacon,
James Ralph Zuck, Junior Warden, Carlon Russel Willson, Marshal,
Henry Hecker, Treasurer,
August Gubser, Steward,
Benjamin Barshing.er, Secretary,
ATthur Dee Smith, Steward,
Richard B. Davidson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Babb, Silas Gratton
Barshwgh, Benjamin
Bennett, Edwin Joseph, P. M.
Bigley, William Henry, P. M.
Blair, William Grant
Bradley, John Harrison
Brem, Richard
Burr, Daniel, Jr.
Campbell, Archibald

Chappell, George Alfred
Chesbro, Heverland Rogers
Clark, Jonas
Cordes, Paul Henry
Crawford, Edward Darrell
Darrough, Thomas, P. M.
Davidson, Richard B.
Dunlap, George Thomas
Earl, George Wheeler

•

Davis, John M .

Pyle, Darius Mack
Pyle, William Robert
Rea, George Elmer
Rea, James William
Rea, Samuel
Rice, ~farshall
Robertson, Robert Neilson
Rohnert, Waldo
Sargent, James Alexander
Scott, Joe Cowhick
Skillicorn, George Edward, P. M.
Smith, James
Smith, Sidney Henry
Springett, Roland
Staniford; Frank Chester
Swope, Edwin
Thomas, Elmer Reynolds
Thomas, Rowley Montague
Tryon, Ambrose Bruen
Wagner, Harry
Wardell, Benjamin Augustus
Watson, Alexander
Weaver, Clarence Roy, P. M.
Weldon, Charles Pierce, P. M.
Wentz, George Adam
White, George Charles
Wild, Harry Lee
Willey, Howard
Willson, Carlon Russell
Wild, William Bradford
Wolfrom, Adam
Wright, James Henry
Zuck, James Ralph
-84

WITHDRAWN:
Leeper, William Clark
McQuilkin, Eston Rush

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

•

2-)l

Reither, Jaco"!>
DIED:
Bryant, Edwin Jackson

252

ROSTER.

OAKLAND,

LODG~

ROSTER.
N~ 18&

Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James H . MacLafferty, Master,
Thomas Irving Miller, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Isador Macdonald, Sen. Ward., Harry Benner, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Samuel MacMurtry, Jun. War., Robert Vickers Dixon, Marshal,
Edwin Nelson Walter, Treasurer,
Geo. Edward Perkins, Steward,
Charles Nelson Walter, Secretary, Harry Thornton Moore, Steward,
Wm. Delaware Smith, Chaplain,
Thaddeus Robinson Joy, Tyler. ·

Abell, John Jacob
Adair, William Holledey
Adams, Frank Samuel
Alexander, George Washington
Anderson, William Wilson
Antonelli, Joseph S.
Arrowsmith, George Edward·
Badger, Thomas Norman
Baker, Alfred Septimus
Barnard, Charles Sumner
Bassford, John William
Batchelder, William Frank
Baxter, Ormie Reed
Beatty, Joseph Crawford
Beck, Alders Clark
Belcher, Gilbert Luke
Bell, Harmon
Benjamin, Edward Hewlett
Benner, Harry
Bennett, Henry Thomas
Berkefeld, John Wolfram
Bixby, Levi Samuel
Black, Joseph
Blake, William Willard
Blethen, James Edward
Boggs, Edward Marshall
Bones, Samuel West
Borland, Archibald
Bowen, Pardon Mason, Jr.
Brabban, Dixon
Bradford, Alonzo Sylvester

MEMBERS:
Bradshaw, Thoma~
Braun, Clarence Thomas
Braun, Francis Ami
Brayton, Edward Lacey
Breed, Arthur Hastings
Breed, Herbert Lincoln
Brigham, Frank Eugene
Brigman, Martin
Britton, John Alex., P. M.
Britton, Van Leer Eastland
Broadwell, Melvin Luther
Bronson, Edward D.
Brown, Albert
Browne, Henry Robinson
Bruce, Samuel James
Bruml, Oscar Charles
Bruns, John Christian Conrad
Buckley, Milton
Burgess, George Waldo
Burpee, Joseph Solomon
Burpee, Lester Glenn
Burns, John William
Burrell, Alfred William
Burtchaell, George Thomas
Button, .!!Ted Lawrence, P. M.
Cantin, Augustus Samuel
Carl, Charles Frederick
Carpenter, Tom
Carter, James
Chamberlain, Nelson H.
Childf Edward

t

Clark, Alvah Kittredge, P. M.
Clark, Charles Edward
· Clark, William C. ·
Clay, Isham Harrison
Clift, Frederick Charles
Cole, Charles Finney
Cole, Walter Hill
Coleman, Silas Ellsworth
Collins, David Edward
Concanon, William Newton
Congdon, Ernest Niles
Connor, William Alfred Hopkins
Cook, Norman Dunn
Corder, Arthur Elmer
Corey, John Sanborn
Corrigan, John Sinclair
Crafts, Henry Gray
Craig, Albert William
Craig, William Henry
Creed, Wigginton Ellis
Crellin, Thomas
Crist, Frederick George
Curtis, Bert Leonard
Cushman, Edwin Burke
Dalziel, Robert
Daniels, Gilbert Barber, P. M.
Davie, John Leslie
Davis, William Rude
Degen, Ludolph Phillip
DeGolia, George Ellis
De la Montanya, Harry O.
De la Montan;ya, Mathew ·
Dick, Byron Coleman
Dingee, William Jackson
Dixon, Robert Vickers
Drapeau, Louis 'Claude
Dunne, John Carlos
Dunning, William Beatty
Dusinbury, Myron Thompson
Du Val, William Moyland
Dyer, James Hamden, P. M.
Eadie, John
.
Eadon, Moses, P. M.
Eadon, William Henry
Earle, Guy Chaffee
·

Eber, George
Eber, ,John William
Edwards, Ambrose Freclerick
Emery, Joseph Stickney
Erdman, Ludwig
Ericsson, Charles
Evans, Talisien
Evans, Thomas Daniel
Everson, Wallace
Fairchild, Judd Hobart
Fieberling, John Peter
Finkeldey, Eclward John
Finkeldey, William Henry
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Fischer, George Irvine
Fish, James
Fitzpatrick, Frank Emmett
"Folte, Gustave Julius Oswald
Fortin, Damiens Edmont
Fowler, Douglass Thomas
Franke, Rudolph Charles
Fraser, Hugh
Freidlander, Marcus
French, Asa Telford
Friend, William Hovey
'Fi'.ost, William Edmond
Gage, George Guilford
Gage, Stephen Thornton
Gale, Maurice Armand
Gallagher, James Joseph
Gause, Charles William
Gaylord, Robert Brainerd, P. M.
Gifford, William M.
Gilchrist, Charles Fletcher
Gilman, Samuel Meiggs
Graham, Charles Kinaird
Gray, Albert Warren
Gray, Roscoe Spaulding
Greenwoo·d, Frank Munroe
Grismore, John ·Thomas
Grover, William Sherwood
Gunn, Adam Francis
Gurnett, William James, P. M.
Hackett, Samuel Allston
Hammer, George

253

254
Handy, Lucius Harvey
Hap.sen, Charles John
Harris, Don Frederick
Hawkett, Arthur Wellington
Hayes, John Ferdinand
Heaver, Walter
Henderson, John Henry
Henshaw, Tyler
Hermie, William Adam
Heron, Ernest Alvah
Hewes, Charles Leslie
Hewes, Charles W eslie
High, William Henderson, Jr.
Hill, John Augustus
Hill, Robert Lewis, Jr.
Hill, Robert Lewis, Sr.
Hildebrand, Raymond Cecil
Hobbs, Clarence Leavitt
Hoffman, Charles Frederick
Houts, Wallace Alfred
Howard, John L.
Howden, Robert
Howie, Thomas
Hubbard, Bert Sheridan
Hughes, William
Humphrey, Morton
Hunt, Symmes Harrison
Hunt, Thomas Edward
Hyde, Wallace Edward
Ingraham, John Standish
Irish, Spencer Kline
Irving, Charles Edward
Ismon, George Henry
,Tackson, Francis Frederick
Jackson, George Edgar
Jasper, Oscar Wood
Jennie, Theodore Jacob
Jillson, Charles Brooks
Johnson, Andrew
Johnson, Charles Emile
Johnson, Elis Crowell
Johnson, Emil Theodore
Johnson, Gunst
Johnson, Stephen Howard
Jonas, Abraham

ROSTER.
Jonas, Irving
Jones, Richard
Joy, Thadeus Robinson
Judie, Benjamin L.
Keith, Arthur Raymond
Kinsman, Richard
Keyes, Charles Edwin, P. M.
Keyes, Charles Edwin, Jr.
Keyes, William Reed
Kirby, Henry Harrison
Klein, Sigmund
Knowles, Edwin Irving
Kohler, William, Jr.
Koser, Newton Alexander
Laidlaw, Frank
Lamar, Henry Everett
Lange, John Frederick
'Lathrop, Solomon
Lawrence, John
Laymance, Millard Josephus
Lea, Frederick John
Leckie, Robert Stevenson
Leet, Lewis Cass
L~hnhardt, Emil
Lindsay, Thomas
Lovett, Alvah Eugene
Lowden, William Heron
Lutkey, Charles Henry
Lyman, Edmund R.
Macdonald, John Archibald C.
Macdonald, William Isadore
Macliregor, Charles Manning
MacLafferty, Holcomb R.
MacLafferty, James Henry, Sr.
Maclise, James
Martens, D . Richard
Martin, Neils M.
Mayon, James Lenox
Meade, George Frederick
McClure, James Thomas
McCully, Judson
McGowan, Charles Mastersen
McGrew, Henry Grant
McLeod, John Campbell
McMurtry, William Samuel

ROSTER.
Mengel, Charles Peter
Perkins, George Edward
Merritt, Albert Humphrey
Perry, Andrew John
Merritt, Isaac Newton
Perry, Henry Lee
Merritt, James Bestor, P. M.
Perry, Joseph Joshua
Miller, Charles William Joarchim
Petersen, Fred Albert
Miller, Frank Thomas
· Phelps, Nelson Dwight
Miller, Robert Willis
Pierce, Edward
Miller, William Henry
Pierce, William Frank, P. M.
Miller, William Noble
Pocock, Henry Edwin
Miller, Thomas Irvine
Poole, Charles Oscar
Moore, Harry Thornton
Powell, Howell Aubrey, P. M.
Mohr, Henry
Pratt, Abner Harlow
Mohr, Henry Cornelius
Pratt, Daniel Webster
Morgan, Edward Harrison, P. M.
Proctor, Richard Ernest
Morry, Nicholas
Pulcifer, Henry Willis
Morse, Fred Wellington
Rand, Hall Bergin
Mock, Theo. Freylinghuysen, P. M. Randall, Charles Wells
Moss, David
Ransome, Ernest Leslie
Muller, Jacob
Rattray, Joseph
Muller, John Peter
Redding, Albert Putnam
Munsell, James Roy
Reed, James Gilbert
Munson, Arthur King
Roach, James Vincent
Myrick, Chester Stanley
Robbins, Jolin Harvey
Naismith, James Semple
Roberts, Jesse Sanford
Nash, Alfred Edward
Rodolph, Francis Bequette
Neff, Myron Dilbert
Roeth, Charles
Nelle, Hans William
Rogers, C.ecil D.
Rosenberg, Nathan
Nelle, Harry Willard
Nelle, William
Ross, John Mimmo
Neighbor, Robert Webster
Rossier, Charles Augustu~
Neilsen, Christian Severin
Rowe, Albert
North, Hart Hyatt
Rutherford, Charles Boardman
North, Samuel D.
Sagehorn, Henry Albert
Nourse, Stephen Henry
Sagehorn, William Deidrieh
Ogden, Fred Roderick
Samuels, Herbert Joshua
Osgood, Ernest J.
Sause, Clifton Archibald
Ott, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Searight, Beath Paul
Parcells, Charles Edward
Searles, Mailler
Pardee, George Cooper, P. M.
Schaackey, John Daniel
Parry, Thomas Hendry
Schachtebeck, Christian Lewis
Paterson, George Wannon
Schulthis, Charles Fred
Patterson, John Alexander
Scott, Andrew Lowndes
Pearce, Edward Hugernin
Seybolt, George Lewis
Pearce, Webb Nicholsen
Shankland, Thomas Clinton
Perkins, George Clement, P. G. M. Sherman, Edwin Allen

255

256

Shortill, Walter
Simpson, Joseph H.
Slater, Urotes Mayer
Smilie, ,James Alexander
Smith, Albert Lippitt
Smith, Andrew Derby
.Smith, Edwin Lowell
Smith, George Henry, P. M.
Smith, Guy Cummings
Smith, Horace Edwin
Smith, iohn Frederick
Smith, Le Roy
Smith, Sumner Stewart
Smith, William Clay
Smith, William Bailey
Smith, William Delaware
Soderberg, Carl Fred
Souter, John Souter
Southwell, Frank Lyman
Spangler, Emmons Rutledge
Spangler, Lawrence Alfred
Spaulding, Nathan Walter
Spence, Aaron Tindle
Stafford, Walter Alfred
Stewart, Robert William
Stone, Louis Stanwood
St. Pierre, George
Stromberg, Jolm Warren
Sturgis, Frank Fannint~
Sturgis, Frank Foster
Suckerman, Jacob
Swanberg, Eric
Swanson, Charles
Swenson, Swen August
Taft, Henry Clay
Tate, Samuel Patton
Tashiera, Lewis
Tayler, Samuel Johnson, P. M.
Thomas, Hayward Glazier
Thornbury, Herbert John
Todd, James Hamilton
Towle, John Francis
Treadwell, John Bartlett
Trepp, Jeff Everson
Trower, Frank Whitaker

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Turner, John
Upton, Mylon William
Van Court, Eugene Salter
VanEmden, August Em:1{·
Van Schaick, D'Ehnry Sylvan
Vidy, James Gabriel Powers
Von Hirsch, Sementi Julius
Voorhees, Fred Duane
Wachs, Harold
Wachs, Martin
Waldron, Vernon
Walker, Wilber, .Tr.
Walker, Wilber, Sr.
Walter, Charles Neh1on, P. M.
Walter, Edwin Nt:lsou
Walton, Jesse, P. M.
Ward, Eobert
Warren, John Chester
Waterhouse, Charles John
Watlington, Abraham Lincoln
Watson, Harry Elmer
Watte, Charles
Webb, Arthur James
W eilbye, William Hansen
Weill, Armand
Weill, Eugene
Westlake, Benjamin Franklin
Wharton, Henry Edward
Wheeler, Roscoe Samuel
White, James Stevens
Wilberg, Ernest NichobQ
Wibox, Walter Cary
Willa.,.d, George Alb<''"t, Sr.
Williams, 0hampion
wm:.·rns, John
Will:am~, John EdwarJ
Williams, Robert Neal
Williamson, Hazard Snowden
Williamson, W. Forsythe, P. M.
Wilson, Adelbert
Wilson, Joseph, Jr.
Wilson, William
Wise, Charles Ferdinand
Wise, Melvin
Wise, Raphael

•

Wi.Xon, Julius Stanton
Wood, Hart
York, Charles Banon

257

Young, Julius Alexander
Zeigler, Andrew M. Theo.

-427
WITHDRAWN:
Begley, Burr Harrison

Betts, William Michael
*Bonney, Franklin Joseph
Bocth, Lucius Anson
Dawson, Charles Wesley
Dunn, .Alexander ·

DIED:
Fox, George Willard
Handy, Brayton E.
Humphrey, George Wallis
Watson, Franklin G.
Ticknor, Daniel

NORTHERN LIGHT LODGE, No. 1qo.
Millville, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each mont1.

•
I

OFFICERS:
Wm. Gusham Wagc;mer, Master,
Amiel Monroe Harris, Senior Deacon,
Geo. Fred'k Taylor, Senior Warden, Joshua Joe Middleton, Jun. Deacon,
Levi Rawlings, Junior Warden,
William Atkin Smith, Marshal,
Louis Clarence Smith, Treasurer,
Earl Sylvester Thatcher, Steward,
Harold Milton Ross, Secretary,
Benjamin Franklin Davis, Steward,
Geo. Wash. Thatcher, Chaplain,
Jacob Daniel . Overmy~r, Tyler.
Atkins, Benjamin Wilbel'force
Backus, William J.
Baker, Lewis Edward
Bass, Herbert
Bateman, Charles Edgar
Benton, Leonard Timothy
Brown, Frank Leroy
Crawford, James
Cutter, Henry Hill
Davis, Benjamin F.
Dirsch, Frederick, P .. M.
Dunham, Almond Nathamel
Dunham, Joseph Albee, P. M.
Edwards, Marshall E.
•Degrees conferred during the year.
17

MEMBERS:
Eldred, Stephen James
Hackler, Francis Marion
Harris, Amiel M.
Hathaway, John Ray
Heryford, Henry Wilson
Hurst, Ferdinand
Klotz, William F.
Koehler, Frank William
Lippoldt, Herman August
Lewis, Charles Henry
· McBroom, Alva
Messinger, Edward Otis
Middleton, George Thomas
Morgan, Richard William

;ROSTEl;t
Ogburn, Jefferson !}.
Ogburn, Jqhn Will!am
Overmy:er, Jacob Daniel
Rathbun, Merritt Dempsy
Rathbun, William H. Harrison
Rawlings, Erastus Edward, P. M.
Rawlings, Levi Petit
Rock, Samuel Oliver
Ross, Albert Frederick, P. M.
Ross, Harold Milton, P. M.
Simpson, Thomas Jefferson
Smith, Louis Clarence .
Smith, Samuel Gaston, P. M.
Smith, William Atkin, P. M. -

ROSTER:

Sorenson, Samuel
: Taylor, George Frederick
Taylor, Harvey Edward
Taylor, Lewis Walter
Thatcher,. Alexander
Thatcher, Earl
Thatcher, Ezekiel Thomas
Thatcher, George Wash., P. M.
Thatcher, Mark Carr
Thomas, Francis Marion
Townsend, Asa Eugene
Wagoner, William G,usham, P. M.
Webb, Abraham Lincoln
Witherow, Samuel Newton
-56

WITHDRAWN:
Martin, ~enry Le~
DIED:
'winsell, James Fletcher

MARIN LODGE, No.

191,

•

San Rafael, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Carson C. Hansen, Master,
William P. Mutray, Seni:or Deacon,
William E. Robertson; Sen. Warden, Raymond I. Shaver, Junior Deacon,
Henry M. Hansen, fµflior Warden; John Nelson, Mar.shal,
Samuel M. Augustine, Treasurer,
Carl R. Schmidt, Steward,
George G. Vanderlip, Secretary,
John M. Sims, Steward,
Henry Schluter, Chaplain,
Valentine Gulde, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, William H1,mderson
Barr, William
Adams, Waiter Miller
Becker, Victor Frederick
Alexander, Thomas Newton
Bennett, John Donovan
Anderson, Wil1i11;m N., P. M.
·Bent, Wilson Dexter
Angellotti, Frank Marion, P.G.M. Berry, Fred Leslie
Augustine, Samuel Miller · ·
Bettancurt, John Enos
Ault, John Milton
Birlem, Frederick William
Bogle, Eugene Edwin
Barr, Robert Joseph
Bonneau, Thomas Siah, P. M.
Barr, Thomas Ira Cook

·.

..

Boole, William Augustus
Brehm, Adam
Brown, Will Walker
Buck Walter Ehlers
Byrne, .James Douglass
Carpenter, Edward Samuel
Carlile, Charl!ls Edgar
Chamberlain, William Lewis
Christensen, Charles
Christoffersen, Hans Christian
Claussen, Peter Heinrich C.
Codoni, Guiseppe Abbondio
Codoni, Silvio Celesto
ColliJ).s, Samuel .Wilson
Cooper, Alfred Bertrand
Corbaley, William Gladden
Crisp, Frederick John
Davidson, James B.
Davis, Robert James .
Deysher, William L.
Dickson, Frederick William
Dickson, Robert Edwin
Dodge, George Andrew
Dollar, Alexander Melville
Dollar, Robert
Donohoe, Denis
Doody, Michael Chic
DuBois, Charles Hall
DuBois, Ernest Blois
Dunbar, Louis Lane
Duncan, David, P. M.
Elliott, Thomas
Elliott, William, P. M.
Ellison, Charles Eugene
Fish, Charles Hull
Furlong, Robert, P. M.
Gilmore, Clyde Phillip
Green, Thomas Blair
Greer, Henry Elijah, P. M.
Gulde, Valentine
Gustafsan, Charles
Hansen, George Carson
Hansen, Carson Chri!!topher
Hansen, Henry Marius
Healy, Frank Jewell

Heilfron, Bernhard
Howard, Frederick Paxson
Inman, Pratt Cook
In,nes, George Alexander
Jacobs, Francis John
Jepson, Henry
Jones, Herbert Ellis
Jones, Richard Clarence, P. M.
Jones, W. Farrington, P. M.
Kaempff, Charles William
Kaneen, John Stephen
Keffer, Guy Vickrey
Kendrick, George Freeman
Kierulff, George Dudley
King, William Joseph
Kirk, Andrew
Knittel, Henry
Kuser, John Henry·
Lauck, Joseph Benjamin
Lauff, Oscar Bengua
Lepoids, Paul Emile
Lichtenberg, Rudolph George
Mac~innon, Duncan
Magnes, Robert
Marshall, William
Mason, George
McLean, James Thomas
Meyer, Henry Bernhard
Millan, George Barnes
Mutphy, Felix
Murray, Fred
Murray, George, P. M.
Murray, William Paul
Muscio, Dante Rogers
Nelson, Edgar Burton
Nelson, John
Nelson, Walter Shippee
Olmsted, Stephen Horatio, P. M.
Parkin, John
Parks, Ira Hamland
Petersen, Peter Henry
Pfaff, Louis
Pitcher, Jay Clifford
Powers, George Herman
Porcella, Stephen

259

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

260

Prescott, Raymond Franklin
Reinhold, Anton Peter
Reinhold, Peter William
Richards, John
Rice, William Ackerman
Robertson, William Edward
Rodden, George Frederick, P. M.
Rudol:ff, Herman Hart Fred
Saunders, John Algeo
Sawin, William Grant
Sawyer, Fred Earl
Schlosser, Henry
Schluter, Henry Arnold
Schmidt, Carl Richard
Sharp, William Fuller
Shaver, Charles Bird
Shaver, Raymond Isaac
Sherer, Rex William
Silveira, Felix Augusto
Simpton, Frank George
Sims, John MacKenzie

Skinner, Wilber DeEsting
Spencer, Harry
Stipp, LogQn
Strong, Edward Beebe
Sweetser, Fred Wiley
Taylor, James Irving
Taylor, Samuel Penfield
Taylor, Will Penfield
'fhayer, Raymond Haven
Trumbull, Robert Hamilton
\I anderlip, George Gore
Warden, Leslie Edwin
Warden, Robert Audley
Warden, Russell Ha~ey, P. M.
Weigel, Samuel Mann
Whaley; Thomas Joseph
Williams, Peter
Wilkins, James Hepburn
Winberg, Per
Woodward, Archimedes Bucknor
Wreden, Carl von
-150

WITHDRAWN:
Gilbert, Lee Lawson

Studley, Benjamin Wendell

DIED:
Brunthaver, Frank Peter

SANTA BARBARA LODGE, No.

192.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
John Neal Pyster, Master,
Frank Preston Smart, Senior Deacot•,
Mervin Colter Faulding, 'ien. War., John Andrew Grenzin, Junior Deacon,
Anthony White Dozier, Jun. War., Chauncey E. Webster, Marshal,
Winfield B. Metcalf, Treasurer,
William Richard Grant, Steward,
Chas. Oscar Garretson, Secretary, Victor Eug.:ne Trace, Steward,
Wm. Cross Merrill, Chaplain,
.......... · ........... Tyler.

Almy, Ira
Alves, John Joseph
Barker, James Lawrence

MEMBERS:
Baylies, Frederick Henry
Boeseke, Albert
Bowen, Richard Alfred

•

Brassfield, William Leonard
Breslauer, Theodore Mattews
Brown, Joseph H.
Burson, Arthur Edward
Burson, Joseph H.
Burton, William Waples
Casebeer, Joseph Wilson
Citzler, Bernard
Cornwall, James Tod
Cornwall, Thomas
Curran, Joseph Pierce
Daniels, Thomas Payne
Dawe, George
Dodge, Edward Gardner, P. M.
Dorrance, William Friend, P. M.
Dozier, Anthony White
Dunshee, Rollin, P. M.
Eaton, Joseph Osborn, P. M.
Eddleman, Jacob Joshua, P. M.
Edmondson, Alfred Robert
Ellery, Henry
Emigh, Frank Edward
Faber, George
Fairbanks, Charles Devin, P. M.
;Farnum, Eugene Oscar
Faulding, Mervin Coulter
Findlay, James
Forrester, William Lucien
Fulton, Robert
Garland, Thomas
Garretson, Joseph McCullough
George, Edgar Sherman
Gerow, William Sperry
Gibbs, Albert Wyman
Grant, Alexander Charles
Grant, William Richard
Grinzen, John Andrew
Hardy, Albert Perham, P. M.
Harrington, John Kennedy, P. M.
Hayman, Fred
Higgins, Phineas Clark
Hiller, John N., P. M.
Hiller, John Roy
Holley, Jackson Robert
Humphrey, George Walker

261

Jones, Rufus Thomas
Kilgore, Moat Molden
Knight, Clarence Crosby, P. M.
Lory, Eugene Aime
Loveday, Claude
MacLeod, John Alexander
Malone, John Miller
Manchester, Samuel, P. 1V1.
Mason, Stanley Cordell
McAvoy, James Milton
McDonald, Duncan
Merrill, William Cross
Metcalf, Winfield Bradbury, P. M.
Moore, Ellis Passmore
Moore, Peter Louis
Moraga, Jose Gabriel
Moraga, Juventino
Morse, William Henry
Moyer, Daniel
Neyhart, Perry Herbert
Noble, Clare Adams
Olmstead, Stephen Hart
O'Neill, Owen Hugh
Ott, Adam
Paddock, Edgar Luzern
Potter, Albert Webster
Pyster, John Neal
Ra:ffour, Louis
R.amsey, Henry Arvil
Rasey, Charles William
Rickman, Charles
Ross, James
Rowley, Charles Harvey, P. M.
Schuster, Augustus Carl, P. M.
Slosson, Willis Martin
Smart, Joseph Frederick
Smart, Frank Preston
Smith, Elmer Leonard
Smith, Frank Burton
Squier, Eugene Wesley, P. M.
Squier, Oliver Perry, P. M.
Squier, William Brasted
Stewart, Robert Carlyle
Taylor, Arthur Wilson
Taylor, John Brutus

.ROSTER.

ROSTER.

262
Taylor, John Lewis .
Tebbetts, George Parish
Thompson, William Hundley
Trace, Robert Bradley
Warnekros, William Louis
Waters, William Gardnn
Webster, Chauncey Elemuel

Flowers, Frank B.
Foster, John Edmon P. M . .
Francis, Decimo App
Fulmor, Mark Andrew
Fulmor, Smith
Goff, James Henry
Gries, John Ericsson
Hall, Thomas Jefferson
,Hart, Smith Clark
Hansen, Henry August
Hicks, Leonard Salmon
Hiller, Theodore Ferdinand
Hindley, George
Hurlburt, Harry Ellsworth
Inskip, Philip Seward, P. M.
Kemp, John Wellington
Keohan, Alfred
King, John Russell
Lytle, Edward B.
Michael, Luther
Miller, Austin Vicente
Miner, Cyrus William
Miner, Leander Haskins
Moore, Charles William
Morrison, Lafayette
Morrison, Silas V.
Morrison, Silas William
Mueller, John Gotliff
Nelson, Martin
Patrick, Zelotus Bingham
Pierson, Edward A11gu!IJ;us, P. M.
Pollard, John Thompson
Price, George Alexander
Price, Isaac

Wells, Peter Caffin ·
Williams, Alfred Bascom
Williams, David C.
Williams, James Garfield
Wilson, Albert Calhoun Joseph
Wilson, William Arthur, P. M.
-109

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Nelson, James Miles
Taggart, James William

Bliss, Wilbur F.

DIED:
Garretson, Joseph McC.
Hoel, William Wallace
Hixon, George Clinton
Jacobs, James Harvey
Pierce, Wheeler William

FERNDALE LODGE, No. 193.
Ferndale, Humboldt County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Robert H. Smith, Master,
Samuel P. Dinsmore, Senior Deacon,
Silas V. Morrison, Senior Warden, Ira A. King, Junior Deac1m,
John E. Gries, Junior Warden,
Elbridge C. Damon, Marshal,
Frank N. Rasmussen, Treasurer,
James D. Rogers, Steward,
William N. Damon, Secretary,
Hans Christinsen, Steward,
Edwin Varley, Tyler.
Alford, Charles Clyde
Alford, William Brazzilia
Barnes, Isaac Bloomfield
Barney, William Edward
Bartlett, James Frederick
Benson, Hans Madson
Beck, Peter
Bowen, John Murry
Branstetter, Walter Grant
Burris, Preston Ray
Caltoft, Harry
Capwell, Charles Henry ,.
Carr, Edward Baker

MEMBERS:
Church, Walter Merton
Christiansen, Hans Christian
Comisto, Silva
Damon, Elbridge Cham., P. M.
Damon, William Nelson
Devinney, James Mark
Dinsmore, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Dinsmore, Samuel Potter
Doe, Charles Albion
Douglass, William Taylor
Edwards, Ray Henry, P. M.
Ericksen, .Leven Christian, P. M.
Fena ty, RolJin Stanton

.

. ..

Blakemore, John Ward

Rackliff, Charles Clark
Rasmussen, Frank Nissen, P. M.
Rasmussen, ·Jacob
Ring, Hogan J.
Roberts, Elis Richard
Robertson, Johnathin F.
Rogers, James Davis
p.uss, Ira Alonzo, P. M.
Russ, William Nehemiah
Samuels, Henry Charles
Samuels, William
Samuel's, William Martin
Schreiner, Charles Theodore
Scott, Ira Lewis
Siples, Louis Justin
Shaw, Joseph Armitage, P. M.
Smith, George Pi:abody, P. M.
Smith, James
Smith, Lucus Miles
Smith, Robert Hunter
Snowjlen, Isaac Wayne
Spillers, Luther Douglas
Stone, Louis .John ·
Sweet, George William
Tooby, Ernest Norton
Trost, John Henry, P. M.
Varley, Edwin
Waddington, Alexander
Whittier, Oscar Dunwreath, P. M.
Williams, Charles Henry, P. M.
·Williams, Frank George, P. M.
Williams, Richard Rolanil, P. M.
Wing, George
-93

WITHDRAWN:
McLennen, Malcolm C.
DIED:
Stillings, David

;I

•

...

263

2&1

ROSTER.

BOSTER.

t

MOUNTAIN VIEW LODGE, No. 194. ·

26i

WITHDRAWN:
*Costain, Thomas

Mountain View, Santa Clara County.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OP DUES:
Fishman, Ely Louis

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full M<}on.

DIED:
Ducray, Frank Justin
Tait, M'agnus

OFFICERS:
Dexter, Andrew Jackson

Houkan Trulsen, Master,
.Charles Henry Mockbee, Sen. Deacon,
Walter Allen Crossman, Sen. War., Frank Wm. Prideaux, Jun. Deacon,
Fred'k Kincaid Saunders, Jun. War., Alvin Pride Rogers, Marshal,
Madison Monroe Kleckner, Treas., Wilbur Lee Camp, Steward,
Cyrus Phillrick Berry, Secretary,
George J. Ames, Steward,
l
Cassimir S. Baggi, Tyler.

BUCKEYE LODGE, No 195.
Winters, Yolo County.

MEMBERS:
Ackley, Harry Milton
Kleckner, Madison Monroe
Ackley, William A.
LaPiere, George Warren
Anderson, William Austin
Meyer, William Daniel
Ames, George J.
Mockbee, Jacob S.
Baggi, Cassimir Scossa
Morgan, Oscar Crellin, P. M.
Bateman, David Taylor, P. M.
Mudge, Robert Simpson
Becker, Oswald
Muender, Rudolph
Berry, Cyrus Phillrick, P. M.
Osborne, Clyde Hull
Cadwell, Richard Grant
Orr, William Alexander
Carothers, Ed. Dawson
Owen, Herbert
Charleston, John B.
Parkic.son, Charles Roseberry
Clark, Walter Armstrong
Peterson, Frederick Lawrence
Crossman, Walter Allan
Prideau, Frank William
Cutter, John Jay
Rathburn, Franklin LaRue
Ehrhorn, Charles Horatio
Rengstorif, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Ehrhorn, Edward McFarland, P. M. Rogers, Alvin Pride, P. M.
Emerson, Edwin Lester
Rogers, Arthur Blake, P. M.
Emerson, · Frank Lincoln
Saunders, Frederick Kincaid
Foss, Elmer Edwin
Showers, James
Foss, William F. Farrington, P. M. Stevens, Marcus Harloe
Frink, Daniel Benjamin
Swall, George
Frink, Lester Daniel
Swall, Lester George
Thomason, Andrew Elmer
Frink, Louis Hitchcock
Gordon, George Clarence
Towne, Peter
Trulsen, Houkan, P. M.
Greenlaw, William Everett
Hanson, Nelson J orgen
Walker, John William
Humaston, Charles
W eilheimer, Henry
Hushbeck, Harry
Weilheimer, Julius
Johnson, Edward Thompson
Whitmore, William Austin, P. M.
Kircher, John Charles
Whitmore, Benjamin Franklin-60

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Lewis Arthur Sackett, Master,
Joseph Rains Griffin, Senior Deacon,
Fred Walter Wilson, Sen. Warden, John Murray Goodyear, Jun. Deaco11,
Henry Roy Brinck, Junior Warden, Wilbur Sims, Marshal,
Daniel Huston Waughtel, Treasurer, James Benjamin Griffin, Steward,
William Samuel Baker, Secretary, William Brinck, Steward,
Charles Henry Wolfe, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Oliver Herbert '
Englehart, Clevin Edmonu
Germeshausen, William Emil
Baker, Irwin William
Goodyear, John Murray •
Baker, William Samuel
Bassett, Willis Harris
Griffin, James Benje.min
Griffin, John Frank
Boyce, Hamilton Guy
Griffin, Joseph R.
Bray, LeRoy
Guthrie, Thomas Walter, P. M.
Briggs, James Richards
Haas, Henry
Briggs, Robert Lee
Haile, James Henry
Brinck, August
Harlan, Joseph Ludwell, P. M.
Brinck, Henry
Heilig, Irwin Winfield
Brinck, Henry Roy
Harling, Macajah Oglesby, P. M.
Brinck, William
Hememvay, Fred Clyde
Brinck, William Albert
Hoy, Samuel M. H.
Button, Henry Leslie
Humphrey, J . . Whitney
Caldwell, Edson Knox
Hutchens, George Washington
Coleman, John Logan
Ireland, Elias
Crandall, George Alfred
Ish, Arthur Baldridge, P. M.
Crane, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
M'l:xwell, Jame11 Oliver
Edwards, George Nathaniel

..
•

•

• Degrees conferred during the year .

•

•

;!66

ROSTER.

McFall, Thomas E.
McNeal, Frank
McQuiddy, Thomas Smith
Moler, Clarence Raymond
Moler, John Frank
Morris, Ebenezer O.
Morrison, Robert
Nash, Warren G.
Ormsby, Martin Powell
Owen, Frank Henri
Putzker, Ralph Waldo
Raney, William Greenwood
Renfro, Lewis Clark
Ritchie, Alexander
Robinson, Alfred A.
Robinson, James
Robinson, William Henry
Rucker, Edward
'Rummelsburg, Jonas
Rumemlsburg, Simon
Gregory, William H.

I

Sackett, John Elwood, P. M.
Sackett, Louis Arthur, P, M.
S~eley, Mack Jay
Seifeit, Otto Emil
Settle, Henry Clay
Shearer, Levi
Sims, George
Sims," Wilbur
Smith, Charles Egbert
Solomon, Benjamin
Stinson, Alonzo D.
Warder, Shadwick Morris
Waughtel, Daniel Huston
Wilson, Frederick Walter
Wolfe, Charles Henry
Wolfskill, Edward, P. M.
W olfskill, Frank
Wyatt, Marcus Oscar
Young, Walter B.

Minor, Robert A!ldrew
Muma, .Benjamin Franklin
Muma, Irwin Johnston
Murphy, Pliny Hayward, P. M.
Muscio, Abramo
Music, Ethelbert David
Paterson, Alexander, P. M.
Righetti, Francisco August

267

Righetti, Robert Marco
Righetti, Pompeo
Stewart, James Fackler
Tognazzini, Peter, P. M.
Van Gordan, Gilbert
Vanoni, Mark Antony
Watson, James William

-31

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Davidson, Samuel J.

•

WILMINGTON LODGE, No. 198.
Wilmington, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

-77
WITHDRAWN:
Sackett, Buel R.
DIED:
'l'.aylor, Samuel

SAN SIMEON LODGE, No~ 196.
Cambria, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full "\foon.
OFFICERS:
Alexander Paterson, Master,
Adolph Frankl, Senior Deacon,·
James F . Stewart, Senior Warden, George Dickie, !uni-or Deacon,
John Henry Bradhoff, Jun. Warden, . . . .............. . Marshal,
Gilbert Van Gordon; Treasurer,
John H. Eubanks, Steward,
James Smith ·Arbuckle, Secretary,
Pompeo Righetti, Steward,
Ritner Dodson, Tyle,.,
Arbuckle, James Smith, P. M.
Bradhoff, John Henry
Cass, Henry Kingdon
Cook, ~lexander Stirling
Dawson, Byron Francis
Dickie, George Scott
Dodson, Ritner, P. M.
Eubanks, John Henry

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Frankl, Adolph, P. M.
Gamboni, Fredrico
Guesa, Jasper P.
Hardie, Angus McPherson, P. M.
Kaetzel, Philip
Laloli, James
Luchessa, Antonio
Maggetti, Peter Lorenzo

OFFICERS:
Edgar Hume Marbut, Master,
Silas Ely Kennedy, Senior Deacon,
Thomas. Benj. Hayes, Sen. Wardm, J ohn Louis Vignes, Junior Deacon,
Albert Seileman, Junior Warden,
Harry Easton Gannaway, Marshal,
Joseph Perry Sylva. Treasurer,
Benton McCoy, Steward,
Arthur Oliver Burke, Secretary,
Anthony N. Winchester, Steward,
Johan August M. Koster, Tyle,.,
MEMBERS:
Brilliant, Benjamin, P. M.
Morris, Frederick William
Burke, Arthur Oliver
Multhrop, Willey Howard
Garey, George Joseph
Myer, Charles
Crook, Henry
Priestley, Herbert Ingram
Edilman, Benjamin W.
Savage, William Henry
Forsberg, Frederick
Schweizer, Frederick
Gannaway, Harry Easton, P. M.
Seileman, Albert
Hayes, Thomas Benjamin, P. M.
Sjoberg, Charles James William
Hayes, Victor William, P. M.
Smith, George Reed
Jargstorff, Arthur Clark
Sylva, Joseph Peny, Jr
Jordan, John Norman
Sylva, Joseph Peny, Sr.
Kennedy, Silas Eli, P. M.
Sylva, Manuel Vienia
Koster, John August Mathias
Talman, Edward W.
Marbut, Edgar Hume
Thomas, John S.
McCoy, Benton
Young, Andrew, P. M.
McCoy, Oscar
Vignes, John Lewis
Miller, William
Warren, Robert Boyle
-34
. Biederman, Franklin

WITHDRAWN:
Bond, Benjamin Franklin

ROSTER.

268

ROSTER.

HARTLEY LODGE, No. 199.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Fun "\foon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Wm. Haycock, Master,
Shafter Mathews, S enior Warden,
Geo. H. E. Neal, Junior Warden,
Jabez Banks, Treasurer,
Heber Byron Churchill, Secretary,
Albert Milton Reynolds, Chaplain,

J onathan D. Monroe, S e11. Deacon,
Wm. Bell Collier, Jr.,° fun . Deacon,
Morton Smith Sayre, Marshal,
Blythe H . Henderson, Steward,
H erbert V. Keeling, Steward,
John C. F. Stowitts, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Ackley, Charles Fremont
Appleton, John
Atherton, David Hooper
Banks, Jabez
Barnert, 'c harles
Barry, Robert Emit
Biggi, Angelo, P. M.
Boardman, Oscar Terry
Boggs, Lilburn Henry
Brown, Henry Nathan
Brown, James Humphrey
Brown, William Harrison
Brundige, Joseph Allen
Butler, Doron Kay
Byrnes, John Warren
Carpenter, Herbert
Carpenter, Ira Mahlon
Chamblin, Marcus Richardson
Church, Joseph Martin
Churchill, Heber Byron
Clemenson, Peder
Cockrell, Henry Bradley
Collier, William Bell
Collier, Williaiµ Bell, Jr.
Craig, Joseph
Crawford, Woods, P. M.
Crump, John Gillion
Dailey, George Leonard
Deputy, Adison Hester
Deputy, Horace Edward
Edmundson, James Dave

Ells, Theodore
·:rearn, Walter Henry
Fitzgerald, George Richmond
Foree, George Haynes
Gallino, .George
Green, Arthur Willie
Greene, William Wood
Greene, Willis Elihue
Hamlen, ,John E.
Hay, James Arthur Bruce
Haycock, Charles William, P. M.
Hayter, Thomas Fletcher
Henderson, Blythe Hendricks
Henderson, Lewis
Howard, Elmo Faber
Howard, Eu velle, P. M.
Howe, Frank
Hyman, Joseph
Keatley, William Thomas
Keeling, Herbert Venn, P. M.
Kellogg, Clarence William, P. M.
Kelsey, John
Lang, George August
League, James Neal
Levy, Aaron
Levy, Joseph
Levy, Samuel
Lundborg, Kernard Marquis
Ma thews, Shafter
McClure, John Frank, P. M.
Mcintire, David Floyd

Robinson, Don Alonzo
Sayre, Morton Smith, P. M.
Schweers, Harvey Tillmon
Shirley, Ethan Allen
Simmons, Leeson Gaskell
Sleeper, l,ild
Slocum, Willett
Smith, William Thomas
Storm, Greenberry Larkin
Sylar, Daniel Patton
Voss, George l!einrich
White, David Edward
Whitman, .Adora Abial
Williams, David ·
-90

McLean, Daniel
Meddaugh, Oscar Edson
Miner, Mark Leonard
Monroe, Curtis Jefferson, P. M.
Monroe, Jonathan Daniel
Morrison, John William
Murdock, George Gwan
Myers, George Welton, P. M.
Neal, George Harold A.
Nicoll, David Cox
Peach, Charles Arthur
Rantz, William Dodridge
Reynolds, Albert Mitton, P. M.
Rideout, Winslow Lester

Lakeport, Lake County.

269

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Cordray, William Franklin
Buchanan, George V.
Kelsey, John Sidney
SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:·
Olsen, Andrew Bellman

TRUCKEE LODGE, No. 200.
Truckee, Nevada County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday of each month.
OFFICERS:

•

Charles Adam Ocker, Master,
Fred'k. John Dodkin, Sen. Deacon,
Samuel R. Cupples, Sen. Warden, George Carson, Junior Deacon,
Geo. Hamilton Eveland, Jun. War., Heinrich Fred'k. E . Ohland, Mar.,
Frank Mitchell Rutherford, Treas. James L. Sharp, Steward,
Jacob Fred'k. Adolph, S ecretary, Thomas Jefferson Owen, Steward,
Samuel Parker, Tyler.

Adolph, Jacob Frederick
Agnew, David
Albone, Samuel William
Balaban, Andro
Barton, Charles Henry, P. M.
Bird, James
Bliss, Charles Tobey
Bliss, George Russell

MEMBERS:
Bodkin, Frederick John
Booth, Mylo Albert
Burckhalter, Walter Marion
Calkins, Willard Peck
Cameron, Ashley Duncan
Carpenter, Harry Hancock
Champion, Francis
Champion, Josiah

2iO
Carre, Charles Kehoe
Carson, George
Coyan, George Ellsworth
Crabtree, John Quincy
Cupples, Samuel R.
Davies, Llewellyn
Delaney, John
Dolan, J ess.e Casper
Doyle, Paul Ma_u rice
Dunster, George William
Eveland, George Hamilton
Fay, John
Fleming, Charles Edgar
Flickinger, William Amberly
Franzini, Morris
Freeman, Edgar Daniel
Galbreath, Andrew Jackson
Giffen, George Washington
Giffen, Thomas Jefferson
Gordon, Peter Henry
Gowling, Joseph
Gracey, Robert Christian
Grant, George Hugh
Guise, Sidney Franklin
Harvey, Irving Franeis, P. M.
Hill, William Henry, P. M.
Hilton, George William
Hilton, Joesph Dearborn, P. M.
Hirschler, Gustav David
Humphrey, Herbert George
Jacobs, Herman Hiram
.Johnson, Martin G.
Koepke, Robert Charles ·
Kruger, Eugene
Lapoint, Leonce Francois
Leach, Daniel Walter
Lewison, Jacob Louis
Madison, Albert William
Mann, Arthur Royal
Martin, Henry Edwin
Marzen, Joseph, Jr., P. M.
Maxsom, Jesse Bellamy, Jr.
McCloskey., George Herbert
McCullough, Franklin J.
McDonald, John Joseph

ROS'l'ER.

ROSTER,
McGiashan, Chas. Fayette, P, M.
McKay, Robert Gibson ,
McLellan, Charles Roderjck, P. M.
McPhetres, Daniel, P. M.
Micander, John
Moody, Harris Lee
Moody, William
Muldoon, Francis James
Nahl, Constante A.
Neepage, John Gottholdt
Ocker, Charles Adam
Oliver, George Davidson; P. M.
Ohland, :J:Ieinrich Fred. Ernest
Owen, Thomas Jefferson .
Owens, Edward Llewellyn
Paris, Ellis Howard .
Park, William, P. M.
Parker, Samuel, P. M.
Painter, Charles Franklin
Peterson, Andrew Jackson
Patterson, Seward Edgar
Philli.p s, Virgil
Redmond, Samuel
Poole, Stephen Buchanan
Poppe, Charles Bernard
Rabe, Augustus Louis
Rath, l!'rederick Robert
Richardson, Warren Vincent
Rowe, Herbert
Rutherford, Frank Mitchell, P. M.
Rutherford, George Ernest
Schneider, Peter Gottleib
Scofield, Norman Elias
Sharp, James L.
Sherritt, John, P. M.
Shoemaker, David, P. M.
Shute, John William
Siegel, Charles, P. M.
Smith, George Hutsel
Spaulding, William Rufus
Steen, Nathaniel
Stephens, Leroy HaIDilton
Swain, Ellis Marion
Thomas, Charles
Welty, Ira Bennett

White, Charles Browne
Whitney, Thomas B;y'ron
Wilkie, William Ferdinand

271

Wilmoth, H. Welllngton, P. M.
Young, John Russell
-111

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Loofbourrow, Wade Jacpb

Richa.~dson, Warren

DIED:
Young, Lemartin Wilson

SILVEYVILLE LODGE, No. 201.
Dixon, S9lano County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:·

Lester Parker Hall, Master,
Francis F : Marshall, S enior Deacon,
Robert E. L. Stephens, Sen. WlfTden,, Henry William Bessac, Jun. Deacon,
Rowland Moss, Junibr Warden:,
William 'Henry Garnett, Marshal,
John Henry Rice, Treasurer,
Aubrey Austin Collier, Steward,
John Devana Grady, Secretary,
Gustav D. Schulze, Steward,
Charles Martin Kirby, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Hutton, Fred Albert
Apperson, James Edwin, P. M.
Johnson, John Dwinell
Baker, William
Kelly, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Carpenter, Milton Plummer
Kirby, Charles Martin, P. M.
Clarke, Crawford Calvin
Kline, Joseph
Currey, Robert John, P. M.
Little, George Arthur
ifollier, Aubry Austin
Madden, Wirefield 'Rightmire
Downs, George McClellan
Martin, James Philip
Eppinger, Herman, P. M.
Martin, John Brinckerh.Jff
Ettlinger, Bernhard
McBain, James Alvah
Garnett, James St. Clair
McCune, Henry Ewaldt
Garnett, Moscoe St. Clair
McCune, Joseph Henry, P. M.
Garnett, William Henry, P. M.
McFadyen, Harry, P. M.
Gates, Thomas Milton
Mose, Rowland
Grady, John Devana, P. M.
Nudd, Elmer Ellsworth
Grady, Parke Edwin·
Pedrick, William Stoiiein:m
Grady, Stuart
Petersen, Jorden Henry
Grove, Henry Clay
·Plummer, Charles Edward
Grove, John Calvin
Richard, Cha:des Robert
Hall, Leste:r· Parker
Ross, Albert ·Tho·mas
Hill, Joseph Silver

0

•

272

ROSTER.

Rice, John Henry, P. M.
Rice, Scott McCune
Rockwell, Myron Salsbury
Rogers, Thomas Gilbert
Schulze, Gustave D.
Schulze, Oscar Carl, P. M.
Schulze, Otto Theodor
Smith, Leonard B.
Stephens, Robert Edmund Lee

ROSTER.

Steinmiller, George
Sweany, John, P. M.
Timm, Henry R.
· Ulsteen, George
Ulsteen, John G.
Uren, Thomas Henry
Wells, William Henry, P. M.
Wright, Oren
•
-57

WITHDRAWN:
Conner, George Samuel
DIED:
Pritchard, Julian Peter
Russell, Francis Evia
Thompson, John Alexander C.

PENTALPHA LODGE, No. 202.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Herbert H. Clark, Master,
Leander Levy, Senior Deacon,
Harry H. Mayberry, Sen. Warden, Wm. Wallace Anderson, Jun. Deacon,
John A. Brewer, Junior Warden,
Thomas Pace Tupman, Marshal,
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Treasurer,
Isidore F. 'Vhomes, Steward,
Wm. Whipple Robinson, Secretary, Burdette R. Myers, Steward,
Horatio Shumway Mason, Chaplain, Milton C. Fordham, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, George Price
Adams, Harold Charles
Adams, William
·
Addison, Rufus Choate
Allen, Herbert Smith
Allen, William Sayre
Allinson, Adam Louis
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Thomas
Anderson, William Felix
Anderson, William Wallace
Andrews, Clair George
Armstrong, William Delano
Arnold, George Leonard

Astley, Charles, P. M.
Atchison, James Roberts
Atwell, Thomas
Atwood, Henry Clay
Averill, George Edward
Avery, Robert Henry
Aylesworth, Walter Eugo:me
Ayres, Henry Washington
Bacon, Frank William
Bair, Darius H.
Baker, Rouie Brown
Balch, Allen Christopher
Barber, William Marshall
Barclay, David Eric

Barlow, Allison
Barnes, Charles Porter
Barto, Fred Oliver
Barton, Herbert Parks
Baruch, Jacob, P. M.
Beamish, William Maitland
Beattie, Robert Fountain
Beckett, Wesley Wilbur
Behrens, Herman" Albert
Belcher, Harry
Benbrook, Charles Mallar!l
Bemer, Gustav Emanuel
Bemer, John Bismark
Bennett, Albert Alfred
Beschor, Gustavus William
Best, John
Bicknell, John Dustin, P. M.
Blackwood, John Howard
Blake, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Blake, Clarence Howard
Blakeley, Harry Bowen
Blakeslee, George Andrews, P. M.
Blakeslee, Lyman Curtis
Blossom, Edmund Wheadon
Blumoe, John Augustus
Bodman, Richard Stuart
Booth, Harry
Boothe, Charles Beach
Bortells, Frank Lily
Bosbyshell, Edward Christian
Boswell, Frank Moore
Botsford, William Finn
Bowen, Calvin Case
Bowers, Alex. Forrester Neill
Bradrick, George Marion
Brain, Webster Cook
Breed, Levi Newton, P. M.
Brewer, John Aukeney
Brian, David
Brill, William
Brossmer, Sigmund
Brown, Asher Park, P. M.
Brown, Charles Henry, P. M.
Brown, Clement A., P." M.
Brown, John Alexander
18

Brown, Paul Clifford
Brown, Robert Rufus
Bulla, Robert Nelson
Burke, William Edward
Burns, John
Burns, Thomas Walter
Burton, George Finley
Buss, Anthony William Frank
Butler, Willard Wall
Calder, James Squair, P. M.
Calkins, John Summerfield, P. M.
Cason, Edward Woodburn
Caswell; William Mitchell
Chambers, Richard Henry
Chambers, William Kirtley
Champlin, H~nry
·
Chase, Charles Wheeler
Chase, Horace W.
Chipron, Arthur Paul
Church, Stephen Hayes
Churchill, David Lawrence
Clark, Henry Graham
Clark, Herbert Hamilton
Clemens, Nicholas
Clement, William Arth~r
Cline, Edgar Harris
Cline, Ross Carroll
Cobb, Edward Sigourney
Cochran, William George
Cocke, John Vinton
Coddington, Fred Elmore
Coe, Edmund Wallace
Coldwells, Joseph Arthur
Cole, Jerrett Water
Collins, Burton Vincent
Collom, Charles Dwight
Connett, Harry
Conrade, Simon
Cooper, Henry Hill
Copes, Jacob Marion
Cottle, Rainsford Ensor
Craig, Moray John
Crawford, James Seth
Cridland, Edwin Louis
Cunningham, Robert Gilmore

273

274
Currier, Ezra Newton
Cuzner, .James
Davies, .John Roland
Day, Barnabas W.
Day, George William
DeCamp, Clarence Eastman
Dessery, Hypolite Louis
Devins, Charles Alonzo
Deyoe, Fred Theodore
Dezell, .James
Diamond, Charles Boardman
Dibble, Harry Edward
Dietsch, Curt Oscar
Dilly, Louis
Downie, William
Dryden, Henry Francis
Duncan, Hugh Welch
Dunsmoor, Charles Henry, P. M.
Dunsmoor, Cylos Taylor
Eagon, Henry Charles
Earl, Edwin Tobias
Eberle, Franz Xaver
Eckley, Frank Knight
Eddy, Frank Cowan
Edwards, Alfred Hannibal
Edwards, David Kitzmiller
Eldridge, Septimus Tustin
Ellis, Morris
Engle, William Henry
Entler, Norman McClellan
Enyeart, Clarence DeRuyter
Er".Vin, Thaddeus McFarland
Fargo, Dwight
Farrell, Arthur Leslie
Fellows, Alfred
Ferguson, William
Fisk, Charles Edward
Fitzgerald, Frederick .James
Fleishman, Adolf Gabriel
Fleming, Richard Lee
Ford, George Oscar
Ford, .Joseph Drouillard
Fordham, Milton Cephas
Foster, Ernest Kidd
Foster, .James

ROSTER.
Foulkes, Thomas
Francis, Ira .Johnson
Francisco, .John Bond
Fry, Abraham
Fulkerson, Tunison
Furrey, William Cobbett
Gardner, Gilbert Emery
Gehrkens, Christian Magnus
Genrick, Henry Francis
Gjbbs, Frank Nelson
Gibson, Edward David
Gilbert, Charles Silliman
Gilham, William Thomas
Gill, William Henry
Ginaca, Camille Armand Joseph
Gist, .James Black, P. M. ~
Glasgow, Alfred Stevens
Glass, Henry
Goodhue, .James William
Grable, Charles Elliott
Gray, Benjamin
Green, Samuel Miles
Griffin, Perry Louis
Griffith, .John Tomlinson
Grubb, Edwin L.
Grymes, George Anderson
Guthrie, Edward Marshall
Haab, Benjamin Albert
Haines, Rufus Rowe
Haines, Thornton Griffith
Hale, Francis Seraph
Hall, Charles
Hall, George
Hamilton, Albert Newell
Hanna, .James
Harding, Charles Wesley
Harding, William George
Harms, Herman
Harrison, Lisle Ryerson
Hart, Frank .John
Hartmann, Frederick Charles
Hartup, Edmund
Haskell, .Jol;m Condit
Hawgood, Harry
Hayes, Louis Augustus

ROSTER.

•

Heartt, Charles Lawrence
Hellman, Irving Herman
Henderson, David Cockran
Henderson, .John Armstrong
Hepp, Adolf
Herr, George Frederick
Hervey, William Rhodes, P. M.
Hetherington, Isaac
Hewitt, Leslie Randall
Hewitt, Randall Henry
Hiller, Sidney Warner
Hilliard, Samuel William
Hinman, Clifford Irving, P. M .
Hirschler, .Jacob Peter
Hoffman, .John Keyes
Holcomb, Elmer .Joseph
Holmes, William Taylor
Holton, George Mortimel"
Hoppins, Henry Isaac
Hough, William Arthur
House, Molancthon
Houselibe, William .John
Howard, Perry Alonzo
Howard, William Woolworth
Hubbard, Albert Allen
Hudson, Frank Dale
Hudson, .Josiah Whitcomb
Hughes, Henry West
Hughes, .John Francis, P. M.
Bunter, William Alexander
Hussey, William Clark
Imendorf, Gustav Adolf
Innes, Daniel
.Jarrett, Benjamin Samuel
.Johnson, Benjamin
Johnson, .John Smith
.Jones, Cummins Butterfield, P. M.
.Jones, Leonard
.Jones, William Wood
.Jordan, Elmore Chidister
.Judson, Richard Paul
J·udson, Walter Horace
.Judy, .James Howard
Keeley, Edward Ellsworth
Keifer, .John Henry

Kennedy, William, P. M.
Kincaid, Eugenio Hough
Kingsley, .John Amos,' P. M.
Kinsel, Ernest Frederick
Kirkpatrick, .John Lawrence
Knecht, George Gustave
Knickerbocker, Niles
Knotts, Harry Hope
Koepfli, .Joseph Otto
Kuhrts, .Jacob
Kurtz, Eugene, William
Lang, Gustav .John
Lankershim, .James Boon
Laraia, .Joseph Nicholas
Latsch, Theodore Martin
Law, Horace
Lawrence, .John
Lea, Homer
Leake, Edward
LeMasters, .James Calvin°
Lester, William George
Levy, Leander
Lewis, .James Clinton, P. M.
.Lieber, Louis Otto
Lindstrom, Albert Stewart
Little William .James
Livermore, Philarmon Patten
Lloyd, Henry .Joseph, P. M.
Long, Edward Haynes
Long, Richard .Joseph, P. M.
Low, Alvin Harrington
Lowe, Oliver Edward
Lucas, Charles Fred
Luebbers, William Bernard
Lupton, Edwin, P. M.
Luther, Clarence Howard
Lynn, Thomas Mason
Lynn, Willis Sylvester
Macleod, Malcolm
Madden, Michael Henry
Marble, Byron Monroe
Martin, .Julius Herbert, P. M.
Martin, Russell Clinton
Mason, .John Cheney
Mason, .John Harlan

275

276

ROSTER.

Mason, Horatio Shumway, P. M.
Matheson, John Luther, P. M.
Mathews, William Burgess, Jr.
Matthay, Charles Herman
Maull, William Knapp
Mayberry, Harry Hauschild
Mayne, William Hawthorne
Mays, James Wesley
Maxson, Edmund William
Mead, Charles Abiel
Merrill, Charles Calvin
McCallum, Cyrus Alexander
McClure, John Clarendon
McComas, Charles
McComas, Jesse
McConnachie, John
McCray, Morris Lynn
McFeely, William Kenyon
McGaffin, Albert Henry
McKeeby, Lemuel Clarke, P. M.
McKenzie, Charles Bell
McKirahan, Merlin Evart
McLain, William R. T.
McMahon, Peter Augustus
McManis, John Rodman
McNeely, Malachi Toland
Melligan, Albert Wood
Miles, George Ciark
Millard, Marshall Albert
Miller, Frank Henry
Mills, Theodore
Mohn, George Frederick
Montgomery, James Andrew
Moore, Alfred
Moore, Sidney Roberts
Moore, Thomas Edward
Morton, William Ona
Moser, Gregory Frederick
Mulford, Shobal Patton
Murray, John Emmett
Musaus, William Purinton, P. M.
Mushet, William Cresswell
Myers, Burdette Richard
Myers, Thomas Chalmers.
Nelson, William Matthew

Nichols, Thomas Edwin
Nicolay, Ferdinand Fran.iis Louis .
Noble, William
Norton, Lowell Prinston
Noyes, Charles Frederick
Ohse, Albert Edward
Oliver, Byron Lee
Orr, Ben,iamin Franklin
Osborne, Henry Zenas, Jr.
Osborne, Sherrill Blasdel
Osgood, Josiah Alonzo
Oxnam, Thomas Henry
Page, Roger Sherman
Page, Samuel Lester
Park, Lee Wesson
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Frank Tudor
Parks, Lyman Bertram
Parrish, Henry
Parkyns, George Arthur
Peabody, John Franklin
Pearson, Atlee Rhodes
Pease, Edward William
Pease, Niles
Peipers, Paul Clarence
Pendleton, C. Welles, P. M.
Perkinson, Al Vernon
Peters, Robert
Peters, Samuel John
Pettigrew, Eugene T.
Pfunder, Albert
Phelps, William Rees
Rickit, Daniel
Pickrell, Esau Addison
Pierce, Clarence Warner
Pierce, John Nelson
Pillsbury, George Eber
Platt, Henry Plummer
Platt, Robert Stark
Plotts, Thomas Mitchell
Pomeroy, Abraham Ehle
Potter, Lewis Arlington
Pouedel, Leopold David
Powell, Thomas
Powers, Luther Milton

ROSTER.

• '

•

Price, John A.
Prince, James
Probasco, Robert Purdy
Raymund, William Bernardo
Redding, Elza Leander
Reese, William Buchanan
Register, Henry C.
Reid, Frank Edwin
Reinhart, John Graves
Renshaw, Fred
Retzer, George Washington
Reynolds, Elbert Wilson
Rice, Harry Earl
Righetti, Robert ·
Ritch, Joseph Royal
Robertson, Andrew
Robertson, Edwin Chase
Robinson, David Elmer
Robinson, Robert
Robinson, William Whipple, P. M.
Rohrer, John Bonewitz
Rose, Richard Thornton
Rouse, Wylie John
Rowan, Valentine James
Russell, John Newton, Jr.
Salisbury, Samuel Scott, P. M.
Sanborn, Eugene Franklin
Searelle, Ernest Edward
Seeley, Calvin Mason
Selover, Sidney, P. M.
Senseney, Anthony Emory
Sheldon, Melville Austin
Shelton, Harry Ashton
Shepard, Abraham Dummer
Sherer, William Walter
Shibley, John Kenneth West
Shorb, Andrew Stephen
Silverwood, Francis Beatty
Simon, Ernest George
Sippy, William
Slaughter, John Louis
Small, Richard Ellsworth
·Smart, Carlos Levi
Smith, Benjamin N.
Smith, Everett Russell

Smith, Ira Bacon
Smith, Irving Raynor
Soults, James Kennedy
Southwick, Thomas Smythe
Stanbery, Donald Warren
Stavnow, Charles Ashworth
Stein, Fred William ·
Stephenson, Fred Alex., P. M.
Sterling, Frederick
Stevens, William James
Stewart, George Hadley
Stewart, Granville Quincy, P. M.
Stewart, William
Stinson, Marshall
Stivers, Charles Gaskill
Stoll, George Henry
Stombs, Thomas Allen
Stone, Orville Devere, P. M.
Storrow, Samuel
St. Pierre, William Charles
Strathearn, Robert
Stroh, Harry Louis
Taylor, William Cylouas
Thatcher, Frank Lawrence
Thielen, Ralph Alexis
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin
Thomas, David Charles
Thomas, Everett Beecher
Thomas, Herbert Ivor, P. M.
Titus, Elmer Maurice
Tolbert, John William
Tompkins, Edward Payson
Topel, Robert Fredrik
Train, Robert Farquhar
Tresslar, Elkanah P .
Trout, John Henry
Tucker, Edwin Franklin
Tupman, Thomas Pace
Tupper, Wilbur Stuart
T_u ttle, Victor Hugo
Tyler, Ormond Eugene
Valiant, George Francis
Van Nuys, Isaac Newton
Varcoe, George, P. M.
Vawter, Edwin James, Jr.

277

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

278
Vignola, Ambrogio
von Ache, Abram Garrison
von Ache, Wilson Canard
Wade, Robert David
Wadleigh, George Hutchinson
Walker, Daniel Henry
Wallace, Thomas William, P. M.
Walsh, Harry
Ward, Harry Clay
Warren, Pickett Latimer
Watson, Frank Leslie
Way, Archibald Chisholm
Webb, Benjamin Oliver, P . M.
Wedgwood, Charles Herbert
W eleh, William Henry Seward
Wheaton, Alonzo
Whedon, Willard Loring
Wheelan, Frank M.
White, Arthur William
White, Charles Esmond Jeffries
White, Harrie Leslie
White, William Emory
White, William James
Whitman,. William Colfax

CONFIDENCE LODGE, No. 203.

Whittier, Henry Frederick
Whomes, Isidore Frenkel
Wickizer, Hite
Williams, George Miller
Williams, Seth Stanley
Williams, William James
Wilmans, Henry Stickney
Wilson, Christopher North
Wilson, James
Winkler, William Carl
Winter, Charles Henry
Wintrode, Frank Cunningham
Wood, Charles Modini
Woods, William Thomas
Woodworth, John Joesph
Wright, Chauncey Arthur
Wright, Charles William
Wright, John Gibson
Wyckoff, Louis Elkin
Young, Milton Kelly
Young, Samuel Alexand~r
Young, Thomas Watson
Young, Warren Smith
-525

Castroville, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

(

Jordan, Franklin
Morehouse, William Russell
Neuhart, Daniel
Rozell, Albert

DIED:
Howard, John Friend
.Jackson, Charles
Lotspeich, Rhoten F.
Perry, Wiiliam Hayes
'l'hompson, Phil Sheridan
Stolt, Simon

MEMBERS:
Lang, Frank Herbert
Lawler, Lawrence Joseph
Martin, Robert Henry
Miller, John Edward, P. M.
Northrop, Joseph, P. M.
Schmidt, Ludwig Hansen
Sherfeck, John Moffat
Silva, Manuel M.
Skaarup, Nels Moffat
Uttley, George
Whitcher, Charles Rose

-23

SALINAS LODGE, No. 204.
Salinas, Monterey County.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lovell, Lawrence A.
Phelps, Fred Moreland
Smith, Henry Augustus
Blinn, Willis Nehemiah
Brummett, Simon .Jones
Burns, John Appleyard
Hall, Henry
Hellman, Herma!! Wolf

John Edward Miller, Master,
Harry John Hall, Senior Deacon,
Charles Rose Whitcher, Sen. War. Manuel M. Silva, Junior Deacon,
Ludwig Hansen, Schmidt, Jun. War. Walter Charles Buttle, Marshal,
John Fred'k. Collins, Treasurer,
Thomas P. Clark, Steward,
Robert Henry Martin, Secretary,
· · · · · · ......... · ........... Steward,
Joseph Northrop, T~•ler.
Thomas Chappel, Chaplain,
Black, Victor Delmas
Butler, Albert Newton
Butler, Thomas
Buttle, Walter Charles
Brown, Clinton Edward
Chappel, Thomas
Clark, Thomas P.
Collins, John Frederick
Collins, Walter Ross
Estabrook, Clarence Robert
Gatton, Lewis A.
Labree, Thomas Prince

WITHDRAWN:
Bethune, Joseph Daniel
Donnell, John Alexander
Isgrigg, William Henry

279

Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
OFrIOERS:

•

Edwin Miles Hills, Master,
Louis Schneider, Senior Deacon,
Chas. Lawrence Pioda, Sen. War. Fred W. Winhain, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Madson Blank, Jun. War.
Wm. John Hamilton, Marshal,
Chas. J. Whisman, Treasurer,
Robert Warnock, Steward,
Francis Alvin Abbott, Secretary,
Clyde B. Outhier, Steward,
Joseph A. Geo. Adcock, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Arthur Johnson, '.I:'. M.
Abbott, Carlisle Stewart, P. M.
Abbott, Edwin Kirk

Abbott, Francis Alvin, P. M.
Abbott, Harvey Eldon
Abbott, Herbert Page

280
Alexander, Elmer Pendleton
Alexander, John King, P. M.
Adcock, Joseph Anthony George
Anselmi, Charles Pasqual
Austin, Walter Pike
Ball, Henry Seymour
Beck, John A.
Bennett, John Baron
Benson, William Henry
Black, William Madison
Blanchard, Charles N.
Boukofsky, Henry
Bromley, George Alfred
Brassel, Edmond Horace
Burks, C)J.arles Ephram
Cahoo~, James
Cayer, Oliva
Chandler, Benj. Bradley, P. M.
Clark, Mark Carr
Connor, Joseph Johnson
Cutting; Griffin Marshal
Day, Frank Beardsley
Dorn, Carl Delos
Duncan, James
Duncan, William Thomas
Dq.rner, Fred W.
Edwards, Thomas Clay, P. M.
Faulkner, Geo. Francis, P. M.
Faw, Thomas Felix
Fenton, Edward
Fenton, Louis Edward
Fisher, William Randolph
Fitch, Andrew
Forster, Charles Alfred
Foster, John Handle
Gordon, Samuel Buffington
Graves, Joseph Elbert
Grimes, John William
Hamilton, William John, P. M.
Hansen, Albert C.
Hare, Llewellyn George
Harris, James
Harvey, John H.
Hayward, Harrison Nelson
Hebbron, Edward Lincoln

.ROSTER.
Hebbron, John James
Hill, Charles Caleb
Hill, William Jay, P. M.
Hills, Edwin Miles, P. M.
Hitchcock, Benjamin
Hoey, John Crais Frank
Hoffman, Henry
Hopps, Frank Jacob
Hunn, George
Hudson, Harry M.
Jones, Philo
Joy, Charles
Joy, John Green
Joy, Thomas Phair
Kalar, David Gilmore
Kellogg, Frank Frisbie
Keogh, James
Keonecke, Adolph
Krauss, Albert Gray
Lacey, Claud Fountaine
Lacey, George Edwin
Lingschied, Robert F.
Logwood, Samuel Hall
Lynch, Peter John
Lynn, Ira Evart
Maderia, Donald Arthur
Majors, Erga A.
Malloy, James B.
Malloy, James C.
Martin, William Jdl'erson
Massengill, James Talbot
McCandless, George Lindsay
Meyers, Fred
Michel, Frederick
Middlecoff, Walter Whitefield
McClary, Samuel Hayes
McLaine, William Laughlin
i~elson, John
Nissen, Christian
Norris, Walter
Olsen, John Peterson
Outhier, Clyde B.
Palmer, James
Peterson, Charles William
Peterson, John Frederick

ROSTER.

•

Pierce, Samuel Cassel
Pioda, Albert Woodbridge
Pioda, Charles Lawrence
Porter, D 'Arey Allan
Porter, John Brewer
Porter, Robert Lindsay
Powell, Simeon
Rankin, John E.
Renison, Thomas
Riley, James Ross
Robertson, Alexander, P. M.
Robinson, Ashmun
Robson, Thomas
Roe, Lee Wilson
Rosendale, Charles B.
Rothe, Charles
Salacci, Batisti
Salacci, Mateo
Sattvini, James

281

Schmechel, Frederick W., P. M.
Schneider, Louis
Scott, John B.
Secor, Valette V.
Smeltzer, Manasses J. G., P. M.
Snyder, Jacob
Steinbeck, John Ernest, P. M.
Thompson, Cagie Grand
Thompson, Oscar
Tynan, Michael
Vanderhurst, William, P. M.
Vanderhurst, William M11~hacl
Vetter, Philip
Warnoek, Robert
Webster, James Ashley, P. M.
Welt, William G.
Whisman, Charles Joel
Winham, Frederick
Winham, Harry
-134

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Kent, Sylvester Edwin

DeGroat, Edward

EXPELLED:
Rowling, John W.
DIED:

/

*Faw, George Eugene

Knowlton, Joseph
Mcintyre, George William

NEWVILLE LODGE, No. 205·
Newville, Glenn County.

•

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Allen T. Moore, Master,
Allison Robert Logan, Sen. War.,
Samuel S. Markham, l un. War.,
' Isaac D. Luce, Treasurer,
David Edwin Mitchell, Secretary,
Wm. Franklin Rupert, Chaplain,
• Restored during the year.

Ira A. Burrows, Senior Deacon,
Marcus L. Conklin, Junior Deacon,
Zimri P. Dyer, Marshal,
William E. Flournoy, Steward,
Oscar Houghton, Steward,
Wm. H. Markham, Tyler.

ROSTER.

282

ROSTER.

MEMBERS: .
Burrows, Ira Ancil
Markh~m, Edgar Roscoe
Burrows, Orlando Arthur
Markham, Samuel Stephen, P. M.
Burrows, Rufus Gustavus, P. M.
Markham, William Henry
Cleek, William Andrew
McGuiness, Henry
Conklin, Marcus Lafayette
McKinley, John
Corrington, Steven Munson
Miller, William Barton
Dexter, Samuel Studley
Mitchell, David Edwin
Dyer, Zimri Parker
Moore, Allen Twinon, P. M.
Flournoy, William Edwin
Morris, James Nelson
Flournoy, Thomas FranciR
Osborn, Sullivan
Foreman, Benjamin Franklin
Price, John Robert .
Green, Hiram Renney
Price, Stephen Howard
Hartford, John William
Rupert, William .Franklin, P. M.
Hayward, Martin Haynon
Scribner, Henry Alvin
Holderer, John
Scribner, John Alex. T.
Houghton, Francis, P. M.
Smith, Albert Mutton
Houghton, Oscar William, P. M.
Snelling, Gilbert M. L.
Hull, Daniel Mosier, P. :M.
Stapp, Walter Hall
Johnson, John William
Stockton, Gabriel Sutherland
Knight, Henry D.
Walker, Allen Bradford
Logan, Alison Robert
Winters, Sterling Price
Luce, Isaac Daniel
--43
WITHDRAWN:
Evans, Aaron

' Clar:k, Henry Harrison
· Courtright, Charles Milo
Courtright, Charles Milton
Craig, Robert
Crowe, Harry Spencer
Dale, William Copeland
Davis, Franklin Collins
Davis, James Alfred
De Lappe, Fred Russell, P. M. ·
DeYoe, Nathan Emery
Elder, Robert
Elias, Solomon Philip
Elliott, Charles Tappan
Fulkerth, Loring William, P. M.
Goefi'ert, George Kepp
Griffith, Charles Henry
Harp, James David
Hartman, Lewis Clinton
Hatch, Herbert M.
Hatton, William Henry, P M.
Hayter, Abraham LaFayette
Hewel, Charles L. Adolphus, P. M.
Jamison, Andrew Roberhon
Jones, Claud Lee
Kiiwin, Thomas Henry
Kewin, William Edward
Leek, Newton Edward
Long, Henry Francis
McQueen, Hugh Albert
Meineke, Edward

STANISLAUS LODGE, · No. · 206.
Modesto, Stanislaus County.

OFFICERS:

· Robert Craig, Master,
Jared Waldo Hawkins, Sen. Deacon,
Thomas Henry Kewin, Sen. War., Solomon P. Elias, Junior Deacon,
Herbert M. Hatch, Junior Warden, Robert Elder, Marshal,
Geo. Russell Stoddard, Treasurer,
Wm. Edward Kewin Steward
Newton Edward Leek, S ecretary, John Turner, Steward,
'
Fred'k. H. Zander, Tyler.
Alexander, John Stewart
Andrews, Richard
Bailey, John Valentine
Bailey, Robert Covert

MEMBERS:
Beard, Thomas Kennan
Bledsoe, Alfred Leroy
Bledsoe, Willis
Cameron, George Washington

Meyer, Alex.
Minniear, Charles Wilson
Monrot, Julien
Needham, James Carson
Park, Howard
Parker, George Washington
Perley, George
Phillips, Robert
Plato, Gabriel David
Player, Lionel Pagett
Rea, Thomas Levi
Root, Milton Burdette
Severin, Johannes Henry
Shoemake, Albert B.
Sloan, Charles Edmund
Spenker, Joseph Christian 'l' heo.
Stafford, John Ivy
Stoddard, George Russell, P. M.
Stone, Walter Scott
Surrhyne, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Swan, Charles Donald, P. M.
Thompson, David B.
Tregea, William Leonard
Vehawn, James Oliver
Vogleman, Henry
Ward, John Edward, P. M.
Weyer, Frederick Karl
"eyer, Gustavus Adolphu~
Will, John August Thomas
Zand£·r, Frederick Henry
-68

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Riggs, John Stewart
Rice, Thomas Elam B.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

•

283

WITHDRAWN:
Lander, Amos Chilton
DIED:
Purvis, Richard Benjamin

284

285

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

WITHDRAWN:

ANAHEIM LODGE, No.

207.

Anaheim, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Baker, Charles Walker

Lockyer, George
Postle, Kenneth Fountain

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sipe, Charles Elmer

McDonald, Benjamin Franklin
OFFICERS:

William Henry Spake, Master,
James Allan Knapp, Senior Deacon,
Chester E. Holcomb, Sen. Warden, Wesley P. Quarton, Junior Deacon,
Octave A. Lagman, J1tn. Warden,
Wm. 0. F. Schwenckert, Marshal,
Isadore Asher, Treasurer,
Otto T. Cailor, Steward,
Joseph Helmsen, Secretary,
August Nagel, Steward,
Sidney Holman, Chaplain,
Erwin Barr, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Henry Martin
Knapp, .James Allen
Krebs, Richard
Adams, Walker Willis
Krick, Philip Hermann, P. M.
Asher, Isadore
Bailer, Mark Castleberry
Lagman, Octave Antonie
Lewis, Thomas .Jefferson
Barr, Erwin
Beebe, Bird Valentine
McLauchlin, William
Boege, Charles Arthur
Nagel, August
Pallas, Frank Wilhalm
Boyd, George Edward
Paschall, Samuel Jefferson
Bradford, Albert Hatwell
Bradford, Albert Sumner, P. M.
Porter, Arthur Lee
Chambers, William Henry
Qu.arton, W esle;v Pocklington
Chynoweth, Henry William, P. M. Rea, .John Blacklock
Cole, William Henry
Resh, John
Cowan, Argus Brutus
Rose, Walter Minor
Crowther, Walter Henry
Schade, Gustav
Crowther, William, P. M.
Schwenckert, William- Otto F.
Smith, Ethan Dwight
Disher, David Cranston
Dunham, Fay Montgomery
Spake, William Henry, P. M.
Draper, Robert E. Lee ·
Spielman, Harry Garfield
Falkenstein, William
Teel, Samuel David
Gardiner, Alex.
Thompson, Arthur Evylin
Grimshaw, Thomas Spencer, P. M.
Tipton, Will Silas
Tyler, .John Harvey
Hatzfeld, .Julius Philip
Helmsen, .Joseph
Tyler, Norman
Hill, Oliver
Waldorf, Creighton 0.
Holcomb, Chester E.
Walker, John Franklin
Holman, Sidney
·wallop, William Thomas
Houck, Frederick Horn
Weisel, Peter Joseph
Hutchinson, William Bell
Youngbluth, Frederick August
Hutt, James Hagar
-59

DIED: .
Blackfan, Charles T.
Henderson, Wm. L. (E. A.)
Henderson, William Hutchinson
.Johnson, Frank W.
Korn, Frederick August

RIO VISTA LODGE, No.

208.

Rio Vista, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

August Gloff, Master,
James Wm. Hamilton, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Burrows Pressley, Sen. War., John Milton Talbert, Jun. Deacon, ·
Henry John Dirr, Junior Warden, Fred'k. Christian Johnson, Marshal,
John McCormack, Treasurer,
Louis Henry Church, Steward,
Matthew Stewart, S'ecretary,
Geo. Lawrence Proctor, Steward,
James Hamilton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Everley, Phillip Jacob
Brown, James Thomas
Footman, Henry Edward
Caldwell, Euler .Jones
Fleischer, Benedict
Christensen, Christian Frederick
Gloff, August
Christensen, John, P. M.
Hamilton, Ivan Knox
Christensen, Martin
11.amilton, James
Church, Emery Ephraim ·
Hamilton, .James William
Church, Louis Henry
Hansen, Henry Wilson
Church, Mark Israel
Hoyt, Julian Buel
Church, Smith Colvin
Herzog, Emil
Davis, Charles Kirkpatrick
.Johnson, Frederick Christian, P. M.
Donald, Robert
Kelley, Albert Gallatin
Dozier, Edward Charles, P. M.
Lindsay, Orville Andrew
Dozier, Mortimer Roberts, P. M.
Makemson,
Winfield Scott
Dirr, Henry John
Markawitz, Abram Jack
Emigh, James Livingstone
McCormack, John
Emigh, Milton
McCormack, Thomas
Emigh, Thomas Powell, P. M.
Monroe, Albert Harrold
Emigh, William .Jarvis

286

.ROSTER.

Nicholl, John Robinson
Perry, Horace Grant, P. M.
Pollard, Louis Elmer
Pressley, William Burrow~, P. M
Proctor, George Lawrence
Rice, Cyrus
Robinson, John
Rush, John Nelson
Skow, Niels Anderson
Smith, George Richard
Smith, John Edward Turner
Stanton, Jed Clarke ·

ROSTER.

Stewart, Daniel C.
Stewart, David Alexander
Stewart, Harry Kerrison
Stewart, Matthew, P. M.
Stewart, William Alex.
Talbert, John
'falbert, John Milton
Timm, William Delbert
Totman, William Nuell
W ecxwerth, Herman
Westgate, Edward William

-59.

WITHDRAWN:
Longwill, John

Williams, Robert Timothy

KING DAVID'S LODGE, No. 209.
San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Merritt, Master,
John Hubbard Hollister, Jr., S. Dea.
Harlan Clarence King, Sen. 'f,flar., Edward Harvey Berry, Jun. Deacon,
Doniphan Richard Jacks, Jun. War., Thomas Geo. Negrich, Marshal,
Pietro Benedetto Prefumo, Treas., Wm. George Proper, Steward,
Francis Horatio Throop, Secretary, John WiIJiams, Steward,
Jesse E .. Lewis, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Albertoni, Nicola
Akers, Noel Prentice
Anderson, Leroy·
Austin, James Henry
Ballou, Stephen Davie
Barger, Deni! Edwin
Barnard, Daniel Denny
Bayley, William Stowe
Black, Edward William ·
Berry, Edward Harve·y
Brooks, Benjamin, P. M.
Brooks, Samuel Wright
Call, Samuel Johnson
Carpenter, Walter Clyde

Case, James
Cherry, William Wesley
Cox, H. Milo
Crocker, Adolph
Crocker, Jacob
Cottmire, William Lewis
Donnelly, William Lester
Dorn, Fred Adolphus, P. M.
Ferguson, Edward Tompkins
Filipponi, Dionigi
Francis, James Dorsey
Fry, Pleates
Gardner, Ralph
Gilbert Mathias

Green, Aaron
Green, Abram
Green, Kaufman, P. M.
Green, Morris
Gregg, Paul Mills
Garrison, Daniel Marcus, P. M.
Hankenson, Roscoe Ralston
Hanson, Simon Hemple
Hansen, William
Hoff, Marcus Jacob
Hollister, John Hubbard
Hollister, John Hubbard, Jr.
Jack, Fred Bartlett
Jack, Robert Edgar, P. M.
Jacks, Doniphan Richard
Jackson, Fred Charles
Jackson, Paul ·Kingsley
J oneon, Ernest
Knight, William
King, Harlan Clarence
King, Joseph Milton
Koshland, Max. Isadore
Lake, Herman Wingate
Lasar, Emanuel
Lasar, Isaac
Latimer, Benjamin Griffith
Lewis, Jesse
Lima, Manuel Frank
McManus, Lewis Merton
McNeil, Arthur Jamee
Mioeei, Bernardo
Metz, William Henry Hamson
Merrill, Arthur Merton
Merritt, George
Morgan, James Aaron
Negrich, Thomae Geo.
Nelson, Albert, P. M.
Noah, Louis Meyer
Payne, Howard Morgan
Post, Albert Merrill

287

Pozzo, Frank, Jr.
Prefumo, Peter Benedett•J
Proper, William George
Reed, Irvin
Righetti, Robertino
Rockwell, Jaines Justice
Ready, Phillip Francis, P. M.
Robbins, Fred. Olmstead
Sandercock, William
Schulze, Henry Frederick
Schwartz, William
Seaton, Joseph Henry
Simpson, Frank Berry
Sinsheimer, Otto Oscar
Sinsheimer, Louis Felix, P. M.
Smith, Walter Otto
Smithers, John
Snyder, Delos Daniel
Spencer, William Harrison, P. M.
Squire, James
Staniford, William Buckley
Story, George
Steinhart, Alphonse Wash., P. M.
Steele, Edgar Willis
Sutliff, Ralph Parker, P. M.
Thompson, John Horatio
Throop, Francis Horatio
Trawick, Roger
Tucker, Ira Ward
Unangst, Edwin Peter
Vollmer, Edward
Walraven, Francis Wells
Ward, Orean Alex.
Weir, John Porter
Whicher, John, P. M.
Wiley, James William
Williams, John
Wilson, James Eugene
Woods, Victor Hugo

-107

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

288

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Patten, Joseph Albert
Buchanan, Francis J.
Payne, Howard Morgan·
Fuller, Wm. Earl
Shaw, Robert
Kay, Ernest James
Short, James Blake
McKennon, Harry Ewers
Williamson, Andrew
EXPELLED:
Bradford, Walter Wiley
DIED:
Tomasini, Luis

FRIENDSHIP LODGE, No.

210.

San Jose, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Ten Eyck Edmans, Master, George Thomas Lemon, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph Pash, Junior Deacon,
Theo. McKay 'Wright, Sen. War.
Jacob John Kocher, Jun. Warden, Fred'k. Leslie Cauch, Marshal,
Geo. Butterfield McKee, Treasurer, William T. Reese, Steward,
Perley Francis Gosbey, Secretary, Francis Adolphus Smith, Steward,
Aaron Jefferson Haynes, Tyler.
Franklin B. Warring, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Birdrow, Asa
Bodley, Thomas
Boomer, Preston Hamilt·)n
Boynton, Joshua Track
Bozelle, Charles Lester
Bozelle, N!lte Overman
Bragg, George Henry
Briggs, John Gregg
Briscoe, I van Bowen
Broedel, Michael
Brown, Frederick Benjamin
Brown, Francis Marion
Brownell, Elmer E.
Bruch, Louis
Bruner, Henry Smith
Bullard, Arthur Rebard
Burbank, Gideon Webster

Abbott, Daniel
Alle~, Napoleon Bonaparte
Anticevich, Anton G.
Arthur, James Gordo°!!.
Bacon, George Graham
Bailey, Lamartine E<h"1':tr·l
Ball, Hiram Jerome, P. M.
Bangs, Fred Herbert
Barker, Charles Alphonso
Barker, Frank Page
Barlow, George Q.
Batt.ee, Albert Jackson
Battelle, Eugene Erle
Berr, Augustus William Hu•ll•l\'.)h
Beckert, Alex. Felise
Bein, Louis Philip
Bell, Harry Edson

Burkett, George Parks
Cambers, Joseph Benjamin
Carling, Edward
Cauch, Frederick Leslie, P. M.
Chambers, Arthur L.
Chambers, Seymour
Chipman, William Fitch
Clark, William Henry, P. l!.
Clayton, Edward William
Cook, Joseph Wheeler
Coulter, William A.
Coyle, John Thomas, P. M.
Cozzens, George Washington
Cruzan, John Alex.
Cureton, Horace
Curnow, James Russell
Davis, Daniel McDonald
Davis, Frank.
Davis, George Arthur
Denker, William Henry
Dittus, George Benjamin
Dittus, John Jacob
Drexler, Henry Otto
Easterday, John Davis
Edmans, Frank Ten E.
Edmans, Walter John
Edwards, Henry William
Edwards, Wilbur James
Entriken, Benjamin Frank
Falconer, Sherman Detorest
Feldman, Carl Fred
Finley, Samuel Henry
Fisher, Hamilton Henry
Fisher, John Edwards
Fisher, Thomas
Fitzgerald, George Lee
Fleming, George Alex.
Fogle, John
Folsom, Henry Cathers
Fox, Abraham D.
Frazer, Isaac Abner
Garnes, John Franklin
Garrison, Fred Merrill
Gee, William
Geer, Albert Warren
19

Gillespie, Walter Weir
Gish, Ralph Mason
Gorr, Charles Henry
Gorr, Lewis Lawrence
Gosbey, Perley Ftancis, P. M.
Graham, John Martin
Gray, Albert Maywood
Groves, William French
Gussefeld, William
Hamilton, Joseph C.
Hardy, William Carlton
Harris, James Thomas
Harris, John Edward
Hatman, Frederick David
Hayden, Zachariah Taylor
Hayes, Albert Cummins
Haynes, Aaron Jefferson
Heckenroth, Louis
Hemsworth, William Henry
Heriot, Robert Alex.·
Higgins, John C.
Hines, George Clayton
Hogg, Charles Henry
Hogg, Henry Clay
Hollis, William Henry, P. M.
Howe, William B.
Hunkins, Charles Frederick
Jackson, Lewis
Jones, Harry Ellsworth
Kennedy, William Charles
Kent, Herbert Lynd
Kenyon,. George Phineas
Kingdon, George August.is
Knight, Isaac Allison
Koch, Valentine
Kocher, Jacob John
Kocher, John Randolph
Ladd, Oscar T.
Lamrock, William Henry
Lee, Robert Alex., P. M.
Lemon, George Thomas
Lenzen, Theo. ·
Liddle, James Ward
Lighthall, George Elisha
Lillick, Walter Frederick

289

290

ROSTER.

Long, Peter, P. M.
Lotz, Joseph Albert, P. M.
Lovejoy, Edwin Palmer
Lunsford, Lewis Monroe
MacBride; Colvin Garland H.
Magee, Edgar Emmett
Mahoney, Dennis Vincent, P. M.
Main, Delbert Harold
Main, Earl Paine
Manhire, Alfred William
Mantz, Warner Henry, P. M.
Marckres, Clair Cutting
Marckres, Harvey Austin
May, Frederick
Mathews, Henry Davenport, P. M.
McConnell, Robert
McCornick, Samuel
McCoy, Luther Addison
McDougall, Giles Eggle~tm
McKee, George Butterfield
McKee; James Franklin
McLaurin, John James
McMillan, John Gilmore
McNeil, Albert Beebe
Moellering, Edward Adam
Monroe, Joseph Albert
Montgomery, Seymour Thomas
Montgomery, Thomas S.
Moore, George Henry
Moreland, Samuel Edgar
Murgotten, Alex. Philip
Neame, Edgar Austin
Newcomb, Charles Thom.~s
Nikirk, Frank Austin
Nikirk, John Hill
N orrish, Joshua
Northern, William Leander
Nott, Edwin
0 'Doherty, Henry Palmer B.
Orcutt, Leslie Squire, P. M.
Osgood, Marion Hudson
Pallesen, Christian
Pash, Joseph
Paull, William Walter
Pawley, Casper

Payne, William· Arthur
Perrin, Thomas Abram ·
Pieper, Charles Herman
Porter, Daniel Avery
Potts, John Samuel
Purington, Byron
Raven, Walter Leroy
Reese, William T.
Riehl, Adam
Ripperdan, Herold Davis
Rogers, Morgan Protheus
Rogers, William James (1)
Rogers, William James (2)
Ross, Fred Cary
Rothermel, George Lewis
Rouse, Ernest G.
Rucker, William Walter
Ryan, John James
Sarzin, Joseph
Schroder, Albert
Schumacher, Frederick
Seeley, Martin Van Bureu
Sheldon, William McClelland
Shelton, William Thomas
Shrader, Rufus W oodruf
Shumate, Albert E.
Singletary, Charles lisk.
Singletary, Emory Curtis
Skiff, Herman Albert
Small, Charles Kendall
Smith, Bradley
Smith, Francis Adolphus
Smith, Francis Jacob
Smith, Peter Barr
Smith, Walter M.
Smythe, Delos William, P. M.
Soderstrom, Ernest Theo.
Sonniksen, Louis
Spitzer, Frank Easterday
Spitzer, Lewis Amiss
Stackhouse, John Win.
Stern, Frederick Marcus
Stevens, Orvis
Stone, William Boulogne
Stull, Judson L.

ROSTER.

291

'Thimann, Bernhardt Conrad
Whiffin, Roscoe Albert
Thomas, Reuel Kent
Whitehurst, George Arthur
Trace, Merritt Pascoe
Whitehurst, Joel Shipp
Trengove, James
Williams, William Henry
Van Dalsun, William Stolldard
Williams, Charles R.
Von Boden, Bernard H.
Willkomm, Adolph
Von Dorsten, Henry August
Wilson, Lewis Benjamin
Voshell, Francis S.
Wilson, Louis Eugene
Warring, Franklin BertTand, P. M. Woodin, Scott Percy
Wayland, Elbert Francis
Woodrow, William Larkin, P. M.
Weisbach, Lewis Charles
Worthen, George Wash., P. M.
Welch, George W.
Wright, Theo. McKay
Wells, George Summers
Young, Clarence G.-240.
WITHDRAWN:
Tooker, Simeon Edward

Shumate, Charles Henry

SUSPENDE:Q FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Barnes, LaFayette C.
Perrin, Thomas Cody
Russell, Frank P.

Anderson, Chas. Wallace

DIED:
Chipman, Lemuel Job
Walker, Jason Josiah

SAN BENITO LODGE, No. 2II.
Hollister, San Benito County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

•

Wm. Anderson Dunlap, Master,
James Philip Davis, Senior Deacon.
George Wm. Jean, Senior Warden, Fred Lewis Barnhisel, Jun. Deacon,
Fred Antipas Earle, Junior Warden, Archie D. McKinnon, Marshal,
Heylin B. Harris, Treasurer,
Carl Leonard Ladd, Steward,
Roderick Shaw, Secretary,
Wm. Henry Blank, Steward,
Collins Monroe Brown, Chaplain,
George A. Blank, Tyler.
Agnew, Gilmore
Barnhisel, Charles Franklin
Barnhisel, Fred Lewis
Bingamon, Joseph Wheeler
Black, George A.
Black, William Walter

MEMBERS:
Blank, William Henry
Bolton, Eugene Elsworth, P. M.
Bonnel, Franklin Calvin
Boucher, Joseph
Briggs, Nash Corwith, Jr., P. M.
Briggs, Nash Corwith

292

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Brown, Collins Monroe
Chaney, William, P. M.
Clement, Robert Richardson
Coleman, Jiarry, P. M.
Cole, George Washington
Crow, William Jasper
Croxon, Jeremiah John
Cunning, Francis Asbury, P. M.
Dalzell, William Francis
Davis, James Philip
Davis, John Oscar
Dean, Bernard
Dunlap, William Anderson, P. M.
Earle, Fred Antipas
Eckert, William Lloyd
Estes, Gustavus Kendall
Floyd, Benjamin•
French, Theo. Hugh
Geach, John Sowden
Gray, Robert Brew
Green, Alfonso
Grubb, Joseph Roy
Hamilton, Fred Judson
Hamilton, Judson Gerould, P. M.
Hardin, Richard Owen
Hardin, Robert Marshall
Harlan, Ulysses Grant
Harris, H eylin Beaumont
Higby, William, P. M.
Hollingbery, William Voss
Hopcroft, Charles
Hubbard, William
Hubler, Manuel Rena
Hull, Leonard Charles, P. M.
Jefferson, Lewis Weston
Ladd, Leonard Murch
Lauritzen, Christian Otto, P . M.
Lauzenberg, Julius
Logan, Erwin Sanford
Lowe, John Thomas
McConnell, George Montgomery
McCroskey, Benjamin Burratt

McCroskey, John Marshal°
McCray, Alfred Marion
McDonald, Daniel ·
McKay, Alex. J.
McKinnon, Archie D., P. M.
Marcum, Leo
Nash, Francis Orlando
N:ewlon, Henry Bascom
Noble, William Francis
Nye, Jacob
Orr, Albert
Ottolini, Ludovico
Packer, Joseph
Pond, Hiram
Pruett, Wm. Clifford
Rosenberg, Marcus
Ruckledge, ~obinson, P. M.
Savage, Frank Lee
Sebire, Frederick Henry
Shaw, George Eden
Shaw, Roderick
Shore, Frank E.
Shore, Richard Elijah
Skow, Ham Christian
Skow, Peter Christian Lauridsen
Steinbeck, John Adolf, P. M.
Steinbeck, Wilhelm Peter, P. M.
Stephenson, Robert Praxedes
Tebbett, James Henry, P. M.
Thomas, Leonard Lyon
Tiffany, Edwin Wm.
Titus, Francis Joseph
Trau, William Robert
Wagner, Charles Henry
Wagner, Hiram
Walberg, Lars Erick
Wapple, George, P. M.
Williams, Richard B.
Williamson, Herbert Monroe
Wills, Grant
Wright, John Amos
-95.

Fox, Jacob Riley

293

WITHDRAWN:
Tonn, Adolph
DIED:
Wiswell, Joseph Walter

SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. n 2 •
San. Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
James Alex. J. McDonald, Master, Richard Neilan, Senior Deacon;
Madsen Jensen Iverson, Sen. War., Simon McGregor McDonald, /. Dea.
".James Ed. Elkington, Jun. Warden, Wm. Anthony Berry, Marshal,
Samuel Hansen, Treasurer,
Albert H. DanielsQJl, Steward,
Wm. John B. Warner, Secretary,
Herman E. Rahlman, Steward,
C. Alvin Muller, Chaplain,
James S. Bailey, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Andrews, William James
Cochins, Ludwig
Artigues, Charles Alex.
Copus, Jay Nelson
Ashford, John Parker, P. M.
Crawshay, Edward
Aver, James Henry
Crystal, William
Bahrs, John Jacob
Crop., Eugene Charles
Bailey, James Smart
Crosby, Horton James
Bailey, Phlllip John
Daudibon, Alexis
Bancroft, John Royal
Danielson, Albert Hijalmer
Baraille, John William
Davis, Ben
Barreilles, Eugene Louis Emile
De Gear, Jefferson
Barry, Matthew Bryant
Dietrich, Christian
Baum, Peter
Dippel, John
Bensen, Charles William
Doran, William Richard
Berendsen, Julius
Duncan, Franklin Thomas
Berry, Wm. Anthony
Dunshee, Cornelius E., P. M.
Birbe, Henry Carl, P. \f.
Dunshee, Willis Adrian
Blangy, Samuel Francis
Dunwebber, Charles Christian S.
Blank, William
Eastman, George Solomon
Bothe, Alfred
Eggert, August
Browell, Frank
Ellis, William Potts
Burns, John
Elkington, James Edward
Caubu, Peter
Elkington, William Edward
Cerf, Emile
· Fairclough, Freeman
Christeen, James
Fairgrieve; John

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Z!J4

Felt, John William
Mead, Ray
Milly, Charles
Fetz, Joseph
,
Fitschen, Adolph Frederick, P. M. Milly, Jerome
Miller, John Edward
Flood, Charles
Mitchell, John James
Fulton, Charles Everett
Moffat, Henry
Green, Wm. George
liamilton, James Willia·m
Montgomery, John
Muir, William
Hamm, Sigmund
Hansen, Carl
Muller, C. Alvin, P. M.
Myers, Jacob
Hansen, Peter
Hansen, Samuel, P. M.
McDonald, James Alex. John
McDonald, Simon McGregor
Hare, Elias C., P. M.
McDonald, William, P . M.
Hare, John
Harlow, George Winfield, P. M.
McDowell, Thomas
McPhearson, William McDonald
Hartwick, Sophlius Ferdinand
Meley, Frank
Hass, Leonard
Marris, Leon Ephraim
Hasse, Arnold
Morris, Simon
Horn, Bernard Jeremiah
Mund, Leo
Horn, Frederick
Neilan, Richard
Ingold, Charles August
]'ljiles, Edward Jackson
Israel, Max Jacob
Nonnenman, Charles
Israel, Simon
Nonnenman, Louis
Iverson, Madsen Jensen
Partridge, John Slater
Jacobs, John Adolph
Peters, Charles Loraine
Jeffreys, George Marshall
Pedersen, John Peder
Johnson, Arthur Herbert
Petersen, James Peter
Johnson, Charles Gustave
Pfeiffer, George Peter
.Tohnson, John Walter
Pottjng, Henry Frederick
Jbhnson, Wm. Henry
Quayle, Erhelred Edward
Katz, Frank Philip
Quinn, James Henry
Kay, David Scott
Rahlman, Herman E.
Kehlenbeck, Henry
Kirsch, Louis Charles
Rahlman, Harry Frederir:k, P. M.
Reiser, Edwin Oliver
Kiepert, Charles Frank, P. M .
Reusch, Jacob
Kollmer, Jacob
Riccomi, Frederick Joseph
Kramer, Louis George, P. M.
Riccomi, George Leo.
Kuhlman, Din
Riccomi, Olin to
Leger, Maurioe
Raundey, George H.
Levridge, Henry Wm.
Litcpfield, CharleR Amir.RI
Sambuck, Prosper
Schneider, John Henry
Locke, James Brown
Long, Piercy Vincent
Schultze, Albert Walter
Mahlstadt, Henry
Schultze, August Henry
Schultze, William Frederick
Mangels, Hans Mae. C.
Marer, Frederick Christian, P. M. Schute, Richard Alex.

s:

• •

-Simpson, Josiah Adam
Simon, Samuel Collins
Smale, William James
Smith, George Bebington
Smith, Henry
Soares, Joseph Dias
Stamps, James Murray
Strahle, Paul Charles
Stricker, Henry
Stumpf, John
Stumpf, Peter :Benjamin
Suhr, Geo. Louis
Sweeney, Everett William
Tanner, William
Taylor, James King
Terrill, John Gladding

295

Thompson, Charles
Todd, David Byron, P. M.
Ulenberg, Peter Hansen
Wallen, August Martin
Warner, William John B., P. M.
Wedemeyer, Bernard ll enry
Welch, James Millar
Williams, Henry Fairfax, P. M.
Willment, Chas Henry
Wilson, John Archibald
Wilson, Richard Fostar
Woenne, Emil
Wolter, Herman Matthew
Worsdale, Phillip
Zimmerman, Phillip
:-169

DIED:
Fogelberg, Barster Leantine

SAN BUENA VENTURA LODGE, No.

214.

Ventura, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full -:\loon.
OFFICERS:

Joseph M. Argabrite, Master,
Christopher W . Cannon, Sen. War.,
Frank Carrelton Doty, Jun. War.,
John Stevenson Collins, Treasurer,
Jacob Lewis Argabrite, Secretary,
Amos Dudley Seward, Chaplain,

•

Mark E . V. Bogart, Senior Deacon,
Milton W. Phillips, Junior Deacon,
David John Reese, Marshal,
Fred Mercer, Steward,
Chas. Fisher Lemon, Steward,
Richard Owen Robinson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Lewis Whiting
Bogart, Mark E. Vander
Argabrite, Jacob Lewis
Bowker, Donald Glenn
Argabrite, Joseph Mayo
Canet, Edward C.
Arkley, Willia Wallace
Cannon, Christopher Wren
Cannon, Marion, P. M.
Baker, Frederick William, P. M.
Cannon, William Herschel
Barker, James Edward
Barnes, Earl Elsworth
Cerf, Leon
Barnes, George Silverman
Cha:ffe, John Hyde
Chrisman, Gilpin Wallace
Barnard, Frank Everett
Clay, Henry
Blackstock, Nehemiah, P. M.

296

ROSTER.

Collins, John Stevenson
Cook, George, P. M,,.
Crandall, George Brady
Cunnane, Thomas Edward, P. M.
Daly, Thomas Henry
De.Arman, David Hamilton
Dennis George Palmer
Denison, David Rodes, P. M.
Doty, Frank Carrelton
Dunning, Edward E.
}·alkenstein, U. S. Grant
Featherstone; James William
Foster, Eugene Preston, P. M.
Francis, Willard Hugo
Fraser, .Allan Polic
Gerry, -Edmond Waite
Giddings, Herbert Alvaro, P. M.
Giddings, James Horace
Gosnell, Ira
·
Gosnell, Truman Barrick
Grant, Kenneth Peter, P. M.
Green, Charles Norris
Hall, Edwin Seth
Healy, Charles Edward
Herold, Stanley C.
_Hubler, Rolla Alonzo
Hunt, Richard Orville
Kilson, George Elmer
Larmer, John
Lathrop, Walter Herbert
Lewis, William Leachman
Lincoln, Willis Phillip, P. M.
Marple, James .Albert
May, Ellis ·Cornell
McDavid, Irwin Alex.
McGuire, William
McKay, John William
Allyn, Calvin Ethan

ROSTER.

Menzel, William
Neel, Henry Harrison
Neel, Thom'lLs Wm.
Newbauer, Joseph Sigimond
Newby, Thomas Sheridan
Overmire, Milton Strader
Ogg, Thomas Daniels
Peck, Henry Essington
Poplin, .Adley Greenfield
Power, George Coffin
Ready, Charlie Edwin .
Ready, William Edward, P. M.
Reese, David John, P. M.
Reese, George Llewellyn
Reynolds, James Edward, P. M.
Robinson, Richard Owen
Rogers, Merle John, P. M.
Roth, Joseph
Selby, :Edward Milton
Seward, Amos Dudley
Sexton, Walter Ralph
Shaw, Nathan' Hastings
Sheldon, Charles Henry
Simpson, Volney .Alex.
Slosson, Leonard Butler
Starkweather, George Albert
Sudden, Robert Cowperwait
Thurmond, Gwyn D.
·
Todd, Theo.
Toland, Thomas Orlando ·
Walker, James Alfred
Walker, James Russell
Weaver, Charles Haskell
Wilde, Wellington Goodwin, P. M.
Willett, Mucktar
Williams, Benj. Tully

WITHDRAWN:
Burke, Arthur Oliver
Kauffman, Park Wilfred

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brecheen, Thomas Levin
Sackett, Geo. Lincoln
Rasmussen, James Peter
Tenney, Alfred Davison
Reilly, Edward Francis
Vincent, Wm. Cluett

-9S

Granger, Wm. Henry

297

DIED:
Thompson, Wm. H . .A.
Taylor, Charles Osborn

OAK GROVE LODGE, No. 2r5.
.Alameda, .Alameda County. ·
Stated Meetings, second Thursday -in each month.

• •

•

•

OFnCERS:
Frank Victor Bordwell, Sen. Deacon,
Burton Elliott Combs, Master,
James Henry McNutt, Sen. War., Charles L. Robinson, Junior Deae<m.
Charles Edwin Stokes, Jun. War., Henry F. Strachan, Marshal,
Theo. Wm. Leyde.cker, Treasurer, James Niels Eschen, Steward,
Charles Ale:ic. Allar~ce, Stewa.rd,
Oswald Lubbock, Secretary,
George Sturtevant, Tyler.
Henry Schultz, Chaplain,
MEMBERS:
Benseman, George Adolpll
Benson, Benjamin Harlow
Binder, Frederick
Bird, 'Robert Barnabas
Birkholm, Soren Gudme
Blanding, Herbert Bowen
Bliss, John George
Boehmer, Fritz
Bolton, George
Bordwell, Frank Victor
Bordwell, Frederick Albert
Born, .Aug. Julius Wilhelm
Bradley, Theo.
Bramman, Henry S.
Brevoort, John F.
Brock, Henry
Brown, Brainard Creswell
Brown, Cyrus Austin, P. hl.
Brown, Herbert Hamilton
Brown, Horace Percival
Brown, Nanowa Theo.
Bruce, John Alex.
Brush,. Frank Spencer
Bryant, Chas. Burton
Bunker, William Edward
Buttrick, John Farrar .

Abbott, Chas. Tvenstruz
Abrahamson, Frank Bernard
Addison, James
Agnew, Gilmore Marion
Aitchinson, Gavin
Allardyce, Oharles Alex.
Ames, Wiltcie B.
Anthony, Edward Requa
Bacon, Lewis Goodwin
Bacon, William Robert
Bailey, Edward LaForge
Bancroft, Charles Edwin
Bancroft, Harlow Palmer
Barber, James Burton, P. M.
Barber, Lyman Hempstead
Barstow, Joseph Nathaniel
Barton, Phineas Wesley
Bateman, Isaac Christman
Bates, Joseph Clement, Jr.
Baurhyte, Wm. H. Moore, P. M.
Baxter, Robert William
Beach, Arthur
Beegle, Charles Warren
Benedict, William Ezra
Benedikton, John
Bennett, Charles Edwin

298

Byrne, John Thomas
Ca~enter, Hugh ' Slicer
Cattermole, Henry John
Chaplin, William George
Chapman, Isaac Newton
Cherry, Frank Wright
Chipchase, Chester Garfiel<'I
Christensen, Peter
Gnristianson, John Marius
Christy, .Tames Robert
Chucovich, Stephen DaniE>l
Clark, John Russell
Clay, Allen Morgan
Clifford, .Toseph
Clintsman, Elbert Niels
Collier, Richard Bartlett Howard
Collier, Richard Henry
Collins, .Tames Alfred, P. M.
Colver, Anthony Wayne
Combs, Burton Elliott
Cone, Frederick Sprague
Conger, Sidney .Tohn
Conrad, George Edgar
Conrad, John
Cook, Christian Daniel
Cooley, Walter Wood
Copeland, Isaac
Copeland, William Forest
Cormeny, Eugene, P. M.
Cornelius, Albert Wardner
Cornell, William Frederick
Counties, Robert Hays
Cortelyou, Lockeman Shafter
Courtney, George Henry
Cousins, Frederick William
Cramer, Charles Wesley
Crane, Alna LaRue
Crooks, Richard
Culver, Charles Marshall
Daniel, .Tames
Daniels, Fred Hall
Davis, Percy
Davis, Samuel Haines
Davis, William Henry
Deas, Harry Wigfall

ROSTER.
Decker, Henry Peters
Decker, Robert Birtin
Delius, Auto Ferdinand Wilhelm
Dexter, Albert Gregory
Dibert, Wayne Clay
Dill, .Tohn William
Doane, Thomas Henshelwood
Dow, Henry Alvah
Droscher, Frank
Dungan, Eugene Leon
Ebbets, Arthur Stevenson
Eberle, Adam Winfield
Eickhoff, John Henry, P. M.
Eisfeldt, Theo. Adrian
Eisfeldt, William Theo.
Ellsworth, .Tohn
Emmons, George W elling~on
Esehen, .Tames Carl
Eschen, .Tames Niels
Fischer, Charles Frederick
Fisher, Bertrand Lee
Fleming, Frank Mosely
Foderer, George Stevens
Foderer, John Wesley
Foderer, Joseph Frank
Fortner, Clinton Alfred
Fowler, .Tames
Franciscovieh, Mateo
Froaden, Volkert. Meinert
Gaines, Mark Edward
Gentle, Ira Manary
Gibbs, Albert Wm. John, P. M.
Gibson, William Maurice
Gilfillan, .Tames Cairnes
Gillogly, William .Tay Syms
Glissmann, Henry
Godfrey, Henry Squire
Graham, Frank Elmer
Greene, Lucius Ellwood
Griffiths, George Chandlt~r
Guion, Earl King
Gutte, Isador Julius
Hacke, Frederick Henry
Hacke, Henry Christian
Hall, Gilbert Cowles

ROSTER.

•

•

Hally, Frank
Hammersmith, Frank Arthur
Hammersmith, George
Hammond, Anselm Charles, .Tr.
Hammond, Charles John
Hammond, Charles John, Jr.
Hammond, Henry Miller, P. M .
Hand, Roy Josiah
Hansen, Hans Peter
Hansen, Hans Thomsen
Harris, Edward Frisby
Harris, Robert Eugene
Haskell, Walter Williams
Haynes, William Ellsworth
Heaney, Frank Noble
Reck, Victor
Heidt, Charles Louis
Henderlong, William Randolph
Henderson, John Norman
Renrici, Harry Hermann
Herbert, Henry Vandeveer, P. M.
Herman, Charles Louis
Hess, Henry
Resse, William Alex.
Hikes, How~rd Lincoln
Hildreth, George Francis
Hillman, Richard George
Hintz, Henry Louis
Hirschfeld; Emil
Hodges, William B.
Hodgkiss, WilliaDJ. Henry
Holt, Edward .Tames
Holt, Robert Lyman
Hopps, Robert Edwin
Howlett, Frank
Howlett, John Charles
Hunter, Robert Draper
Hurlbut, Frederick Haynes
Ilderton, Henry George
.Jackson, Joseph Wilson
Jacobs, Alex.
Jacobs, Saul Roberts
.Jacobsen, Jacob Erick
.Tames Edward Pond
.Tames, Frank Vivien

299

Jamieson, John Cameron, .Tr.
.Tenkins, Frederick Eugene
.Johnson, Christian Ole
.Johnson, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
.Tones, Emmet Renwick
Jones, Lee Savage
.Tones, Reed
Jordan, Wm. Henry
.Junkins, Charles Keeler
Kaufmann, Emil Hermann
Kebby, Harry Maurice
Kemp, Edward Henry
Kenney, Arthur Edward
Kenny, Franklin Augustus
Keyes, Charles Edward
Keys, Ernest Mulford
Kiefer, William Colfax
Killam, Geo. Thomas
Killman, Henry C.
Klein, George Henry
Klein, Peter
Kline, Lucien William
Knowland, Joseph
Knowland, Joseph Russell, P. M.
Knowles, William Brook
Koerber, August
Kollmyer, William Blythe
Konigshofer, Leon Andrew
Kouff,. David
Kramer, Ralph
Krieder, Frank Light
Lamborn, Benjamin Francis
Lancaster, Chester .Tack~1m
Lancaster, Joseph
Langley, Charles Lester
Langren, Louis L.
Larsen, Niels Christian
Lassen, Hans Christian
Lassen, Henry Christian
Latham, Alfred
Lehners, Carl Frederick Aug.
Lehrkind, Oscar Frederick
Lessig, Charles Herbert
Leu, Adolph Charles
Lewis, George Leonard

300

ROSTER.

Leydecker, Theo. William
Lipman, Harrison Randolph
Lohse, Nicholas
Loomis, George Rodney
Loop, Frank Sumner
Lorber, Hugo Milton
Lovejoy, Edward Bell, P. M.
Lubben, Frederick
Lubbock, Henry Schultz
Lubbock, Oswald
Luderman, Henry William
Luders, Randolph Otto
Lutgen, John
Mackie, Alex.
Magagnos, Charles Plumner D.
Magill, Robert Henry
Margrave, Charles Edmond
Marshall, Sidney Smith
Martin, David Chester
Martin, David Wilkins
Mason, Fred 'k. Eldredge
Mastick, Charles Levi
McCallum, George Stirling K.
McComber, Frank Kerrick
McFarland, Benj. Salisbury, P. M.
McFarland, Francis Watts
Mciver, Gilbert Leslie
McNutt, James Henry
Meinecke, Henry George
Melrose, Charles Francis
Merriman, George Marsuall
Merriam, Harnden Wallace
Merriam, Horace Robert
Mesick, .Samuel Peter
Messer, Joseph Oneseme
Meyers, Henry Haight
Michaels, Charles Frederick
Michaels, Henry
Minor, Robert
Mitchell, Henry 'fhomas
Mitchell, Sidney George
Mock, Arthur, P. M.
Moore, Fred Thompson
Moulthrop, Carlton Franl'is
Moulthrop, Horace Lankton

Moyes, Edwin Moyes
Mundwyler, John Lewis
Munthe, Daniel Peter
Nason, Arthur Graham
Nauman, Paul Zeligo
Nelson, Franz .Otto
Nelson, Hans
Nicklas, Philip
Nield, John Lingard
Nobmann, John Henry
Nottnagle, Charles Frederick
Noy, William Henry
Noyes, Charles Edward
Nylander, Gustaf Adolf
Oehlmann, Ludwig
Owen, George Marshel
Paff, Charles
Pagels, Edward
Parker, Dudley Allerton
Paul, Almarin Brooks, Jr.
Paulsmeier, Albert Carl
Payne, George Henry
Peck, Ferdinand John
Penfield, William Henry
Perry, Kirkham Lockhart
Petersen, Andrew Hansen
Petersen, Carl Christian Aug.
Petersen, Robert
Peters, Thomas Lynn
Pettes, William Ethan
Phillips, John
Philpot, Charles Henry
Pickthall,JMyles
Plummer, George Elliott
Potts, James
Powell, John Milton
Powell, John Wesley
Poyzer, William Richard
Priestley, Frank Henry
Pyne, Thomas Ireland
Quast, August F.
Ray, Frederick William
Rathbun, George Arthur
Reeves, Herbert Villiers
Reynold, George Potter

ROSTER.

I

'Rhodes, James D.
Ricklefson, Henry Herman
Riehl, Otto
Riggle, Frank Hagen
Robinson, Chester Larned ·
Roeder, William Edward
Rogers, Jesse Isaac
Rosenberg, Gay Allender
Rosenberg, Robert Colman
Ross, James
Rounds, John Albert
Rudbach, John Christian
'Rue, Edmond Davidson, P. M.
Rue, Frank Alvan
Russell, James Rainey
Rust, William Jefferson
Sale, William Truman
Sanford, Joseph Warren
Sansom, John Andrew
Sansom, Louis Nelson ,
Schmalz, Claus
·
Schmidt, Gustav Ludwig
Schoenan, Henry
Schneider, Henry
Scott, Arthur Walter
Scovel, Horace Hezekiah
Shannon, Albert Sydney J.
Shear, William Mortimer
Shearman, James Spotiswood
Sheeran, James Andrew
Siegfrie.d, John Christian
Simon, Lucien
Simpson, Milton William, P. M.
Sloan, James Ralph
Smith, Clarence M.
Smith, Eliphalet Minor, P. M.
Smith, John Alex.
Smith, Wes ton Orlin
Spark John Home
Speddy, Thomas Howard
Spreckels, Richard
Stack, James Henry
Stafford, Auren Alfred
Stallman, Frank Oscar
Starkweather, Haynes Kingsley

Steltzner, Emil Johann C.
Stephenson, Stanley
Stocker, Frederick Henry
Stoddard, Asa Church
Stokes, Charles Edward
Stracham, Harry Fergusson
Stratford, Harry Cornish
Strong, Milton Grosvenor
Strunz, Albert
Sturtevant, George
Sullivan, Dennis Joseph, P. M.
Swayne, Robert Henry
Swett, Daniel Storria
Swithenbank, Charles
Taylor, Charles Nielson
Taylor, Edward Kimberlin
Taylor, Henry Reed
Taylor, Morgan Stuart
Taylor, Raymond Eugene
Teller, Harvey Earl
Teller, John de Peyster
Teller, Philip Shepheard, P. M.
Thomas, Edwin James
Thompson, David
Thompson, George Stuart
Thompson, Hans Andrea'!
Thompson, Robert R.
Thompson, William
Throop, James Hervey
'l'ilden, Charles Lee
Timmons, Joseph Henry
Tisdale, Charles Lewis
Townsend, Henry Clay
'l'oy, Howey Marshall
Tuft, Walter Edward
Turner, Myron C.
Van Brunt, William Roger
Van Orden, Leander
Van Oterendorp, Klass
Vivier, Armand Maurice
V olberg, Charles Christian
Volberg, Frederick Ludwig
Von Shoen, Geo. F .. A. C.
Vosberg, Joel Brown
Wall, Carlton Hobbs

301

302

ROS'l'ER.

ROSTER. ·

Walter, William Henry
Walton, Frank Newton
Ward, Henry
Weaver, William Henry
Weeks, George Franklin
Wever, Charles Herbert, P. M.
Whitney, George Hanna
Williams, George Sprague
Willie, Isadore
Wilson, Edward Rudolph
Wilson, Fred 'k. Gilbert

Wilson, Silvester Frank
Windham, Percy Clarence
Woodin, Eugene
Woodside, William John
Wright, George Thomas
Wulzen, Richard John
Yablonsky, Jonn, P. M.
Young, Charles Frederick
Young, Lars Gustaf
Youngberg, John Emmanuel; P . M.

-433

WITHDRAWN:
Clark, Lincoln
Hopps, Frank Walter

Kimball, Marand
Meigs, John J.
Pierce, George Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Greppen, Joseph Ernest
DIED:
Clark, David

Culver, Marshall Lyman
Sherman, Samuel

DORIC LODGE, No. 216.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month .
OFFICERS:
William Lane Scott, Master,
James Ezra Wilson, Senior Deacon,
Jesse Daniel Hannah; Sen. Warden, Wm. Burton Cameron, Jun. Deacon,
Ben Levi, Junior Warden,
Douglas Henry Thomson, Marshal,
William Trebell, Treasurer,
Albert Adolph Rosenshine, Steward,
Julius R. Goldsmith, Secretary,
Fred'k. Wm. Stapf!, Steward,
Otto Wm. Chonette, Chaplain,
Edward Wilson Currier, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abraham, Charles Jacob
Abraham, Samuel
Abrams, Nathan
'Adler, Nathan Max
Alexander, William
Allingham, William
Andersen, Hja,lmar

Anderson, Andrew Petter
Anderson, Henry
Anderson, John Olof
Andrews, Abraham
Arnheim, William Samuel
Asher, Hugo Kiewe.
Avan, John

,Backstein, Ferdinand
Bacon, Charles Augushs
Badt, Alexander Lipschuetz
Bangs, Frank Calvin
Banks, William Oscar
Bareilles, John Parrott
Barsotti, Joseph
Bartlett, Frank August
Bastheim, Edmund
Bauer, Adolph Charles, P. M.
.deck, Charles Louis
Becker, Johannes Paul
Beerman, Adolf
Behm, Alfried Herman
Behrend, David
Belvel, George Elijah
Bennett, George Washington
Bickley, John
Blum, Isidor Leon
Blume, Daniel·
Blumenthal, Sello Julius
Bohle, Albert Frederick
Bosch, Peter
Boskowitz, George Henry
Breeding, William Henry
Bressi, Enrico Guiseppe
Brown, Herbert Morris
Buckley, Edward Murray
Bullion, Alfred Hanna
Burling, Augustus Bowie
.Bunger, Fred 'k.. Christian
Bush, Joseph Aaron
Caccia, Joseph
Cahen, David Solomon
Cameron, William Burton
Campbell, George Tawse
Cassassa, Charles Henry
Chaban, Joseph
Chonette, Otto William, P. M.
Christensen, John
Church, Joseph William
Clawson, Leonard Edwin
Co burn, Ira Winn
Cohen, Joseph
Cohn, Herman

Cohn, Leon
Colbentz, Lambert
Collins, Samuel Henry
. Conway, John Francis
Cook, Morton Leon
Cooper, Samuel Marum
Cop!Jland, William Glenn, P: M.
Creagh, John William
Crozier, Samuel
Cunningham, James
Curlett, William Frederick, P. M .
Currier, Edward Wilson
Dangers, Henry
Danziger, Simon
David, Joseph William Roland
Davis, Maurice William
Deal, William Griffith
Denker, Nicolas Carl
DeWitt, Frank Clinton
Dorn, Gus Emil
Dunand, Louis Frank, P. M.
Dyer, George Henry
Eber, Charles
· Edwards, Alfred Soule
Eichbaum, Chas. Williamson
Eickhoff, Henry
Eisenbach, Julius
Erickson, Antaari
Euphrat, Martin
Faircloth, Frank Thomas, P. M.
Falk, Harry Henry
Falk, Morris
Ferral, Ro ~ert
Ferris, Crawford
Fershtand, Theodore
Finkler, Henry Charles
Fishel, David
Fisher, Moses
Fitzgerald, Robert Harrison
Floud, John William Rendell
Folsom, Eugene Hampton
Fontana, Frank Andrew
Fox, Morris
Fraser, John P., P. M.
Friedlander, David

303

30-l

ROSTER.

Heller, Joseph
Friedlander, Otto Wilhelm Anton
Henderson, Alexander
Friedman, Henry Albert
Herzog, George Kramer
Friedman, Samuel
Herzog, Joseph·
Gabriel, Julius Lester
Herzog, Maximillian
Gassner, Louis
Herzog, Sidney Garfield
Geddes, William
Herzog, Sigfried Kramer
Gee, Ch!rles Ezra
Heskins, Herman
Gee, William Herbert
Hicks, Herbert Reuben
Geitner, Robert
Hill, Thomas Locker, P. M.
Gelatte, Fred Gordon
Hoefler, Ludwig Mathias, P. M.
Getz, Moses Milton, P, M.
Hollidge, Harry Hamlin
Gille, William Henry
Holmes, Harold Charles
Gillespie, William John
Holmes, Henry Edmund
Goetze, Edward Henry
Holzberg, David
Goicovicb, George John
Hornblower, Frederick Augnstus
Goldberg, Garrett Milton
Isaac, Adolph
Goldberg, Max
Goldsmith, Julius Raphael
Isaacs, Louis Raymond
Iten, August
Goldstein, Leon
Ivanovich, Martin
Goodday, Jacob Louis
Jacobs, Harold Wihl
Goodday, Louis, P. M.
Jacobs, Henry Albert
Gorter, Herman Henry
Jacobs, Murry
Grant, Isaac
Jacobs, Myer
Gray, Frank Sidney
Jacobs, Sol
Gray, Lee
.Janes, Graziano
· Gray, Thomas Henry
Jewett, Albert Cavallo
Green, Isaac Michael
Joel, Arthur Max
Greenzweig, George
Johnson, Frederick Joseph
Groh, Anton Frederick
Johnson, Hans Christian
Gunn, George L.
Jones, Samuel
Gut, Karl
Joslyn, William Edwin
Gutman, Alexander
Judell, Emil
Haake, John Rudolph
Judie, Alphonse
Hall, Frank Henry
Kalmuk, Louis
Halla, Otto
Kartschoke, Gustav
Hannah, J ease Daniel
Hansen, August Wilhelm Hermann Katz, Charles
Kaufmann, Eduard
Harris, Chester Sigmund
Kauffman, Leon
Harris, Samuel
Keilus, Charles
Hart, Richard
Kellogg, Albert Crawford
Hartje, John Herman Frederick
Kendall, Alfred Thomas
Hassell, William Prescott
Kendall, Robert
Haven, Acton
Kerrigan, Frank Henry
Healing, George
Klinger, Charles
Heinicke, William Frederick

ROSTER.

•

Lafee, Manuel
Lande, Edward
Landgreen, William
Lange, Julius Frederick
Larkin, Harry
Larsen, Hans Henrik
Larsen, Niels
Lenoir, Gustave Abraham
Leonard, John
Leszynsky, .Isidor
Leudan, Joseph
Levenson, Samuel Millard
Levry, Benjamin Coleman
Levi, Ben
Levi, Samuel
Levin, David
Levin, Jacob
Levison, Alex.
Levy, Adolph
Levy, Harold Walter
Levy, Jacob
Levy, Leopold Harry
Levy, Louis
Levy, Mark, Wll.llhington
Levy, Maurice
Levy, Morris Frank
Levy, Reuben
Lewin, Helmut
Liebman, Lloyd Harry
Lipman, Leopold
Little, Walter John
Logan, James Francese, P. M.
Long, Edward Melvin
Lowe, Clarence Willie
Ludwig, Ernst Hubert
Lustig, Daniel David
Lyon, George Frederick
Lyons, Charles Gerald .
Macdonald, Charles
Magee, David Bartholomew
Mann, Leo
Manzer, Frank Eugene
Manzer, Lonson Martin, P. M,
Marchus, David Edward
Marks, Marcus
20

Markwitz, Louis
Martinoni, Emil
Matthiesen, John Andreas Phillip
Mccroskey, Cyrus Burr, P. M.
McCullough, Thomas
Mendelsohn, Louis M.
Mendelson, ·Julius
Meyer, Arthur
Meyers, John Jacob
Miguel, Paul Shirley
Mikkleson, Robert
Miller, James William
Miller, Louis Cecilius
Monro, William James
Mooser, William
Morris, Henry
Morris, Saul Nathan
Morrisson, Albert Charles
Muller, William
Mulville, Daniel Frank
Munter, Bernard
Myrson, Simon, P. M.
Nagle,. Richard Hamilton
N annestad, Henrik Elias
Nassau, Samuel Nathan
Nathan, Aaron Riggs
Neal, Robert Waterman
Nelson, Cbarles Frithof
Newer, Carl
Norberg, John
Nordman, Adolph
Nye, Joseph Merrill, Jr,
O'Connor, Joseph
Oldie, Frank Evelyn
Oleson, Knud Christian
Olsen, Andrew
Olsen, Peter Andrew
Ormsby, Edgar Lionel
Ottinger, Adolph
Packscher, Charles
Paton, George
Peiser, Solomon
Pence, John Wilson
Peshon, Peter Alfred
Peterson, Charles Gus. Ferd.

305

306
Pettersan, Gottfried Teodor
Phillips, Joseph James
Pieroti, Henry Collingwood C.
Plant, Sydney Lomax
Pollak, Arnold
Porter, Royden Henry
Preddey, George Henry
Prince, Albert David
Prince, David Solomon
Radulovich, Spiro ·
Ragland, Rufus Ely
Rainey, William Austin
Raphael, James Greerson
Read, William Parsons
Reid, Rafe Robinson
Reiner, Charles Edward
Reinhard, Sebastian Eilert
Reinhart, Manfred
Reinhart, Simon
Reles, Peter
Riblet, Henry Nelson
Richardson, Willard Ashton
Riley, John Francis
Robertson, John Milne
Rosen, Carl Albin Amandus
Rosenberg, Josep.a
Rosenheim, Samuel
Rosenshine, Albert A.
Rothenbusch, Carl Adolph
Rothschild, Abraham
Rothschild, Joseph
Rothschild, Lew
Ruggles, Albert Burleigh
Rusconi, John Batista
Salz, Edward
Samuels, Albert Samuel
Sandstrom, Chas. August Phillip
Schaertzer, Henry Conrad, P. M
Scharff, Tsaac Clare
Scheppler, Louis William
Scheuch, Leopold
Schmalz, William
Schmidt, Carl H.
Schmidt, Ernst
Schoenfeld, Louis Simon, '£', M.

ROSTER.
Schraubstadter, Ernst
Schroder, Edward Henry
Schroeder, Fridrick William
Schuhl, Leon
Scott, Arthur George
Scott, William Lane
Seeley, Joseph
Semmel, .Eduard
Short, John George
Short, Joseph Edward
Silver, Robert Napier
Silverstein, Jacob
Simon, Belmar
Sinclair, John Stewart
Sommerfield, Morris T.
Sperling, Frank
Spiero, Caesar Noah
Spreen, Carl Fred August
Sprout, Sidney Smith
Stapff, Frederick Wm.
Stangenberger, Ge9rge Bernard
Steers, Frank Morgan
Steinbach, Henry
Steiner, Theodore
Steinman, Carl Wilhelm Ferd.
Stokes, Henry Arthur
Strom, Christian
Swanberg, Charles Olif
Taylor, Carlton Maybin
Terrill, William Albert
Thomas, David John
Thomson, William Tobias
Thurston, Charles Paschal
Tilton, James Alex.
Trebell, John
Trebell, William, P. M.
Triest, Joseph
Tuttle, Leonard Russell
Vercevich, Adam Lazar
Walter, Nathan Leon
Warren, Charles Albert
Warshauer, Harry
Warshauer, Jacob
Watkins, Henry Ward
Watson, Horace Daniel

ROSTER.
Weil, William ·Montague
W einshenk, Sydney
Wheeler, Edward Alvin
White, Thomas Benton, P. M.
White, William Mercer
Wight, Frederick Lawrence, P. M.
Williams, Alex. Francis
Williamson, Henry, P. M.
Williamson, James Richal'd
Wilson, James

307

Wilson, James Ezra
Wither, William Mathew
Wobber, William Peter
Wolbach, Karl
Wolters, Theo. Ludwig
Woolf, Michael Joseph
Yarneberg, Charles
Young, Arthur Lawrie
Young, Hermann Hartmann
Young, John Stuart-394

WITHDRAWN:
Allen, Wm. Wallace, Jr.
Elliott, Frederick Nelson
Hosmer, Geo. Wm.

Plummer, Sanford
Pratt, Alexander
. Withers, Lewis A. T.

._.,...,

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Burn, James Edwin
Cordes, Claus Henry
DIED:
Christensen, Leonard
Edmondson, Wm. Henry
Flanagan, James
Gall, Julius

Knox, Andrew Baird
Levy, Morris Bernhard
Levy, Solomon
Nye, Alex. Edwin Janette

MONTEREY LODGE, No.

217.

Monterey, Monterey County.
Stated Meehngs, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•

Charles Shellman Olmsted, Master, John Aleck Johnson, Sen. Deacwn,
Howard Daniel Severance, S. War., Arthur James Mason, Junior Deacon,
Ney Otis, Junior Warden,
Ernest August Scholze, Marshal,
Henry Alex. Olmsted, Treasurer,
J. Oliver Richesin, Ste'li!ard,
Chas. Girard Van Hove, Secretary, A. Hecox Longley, Steward,
Willia~ James Towle, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anway, Clayton Loren
Awl, Francis Asbury
Bagby, Jacob Warren
Beardsley, James Harry
Berry, Frank Swan
Bronson, Andrew

Brown, Wallace Clarence
Bennett, Charles Newton, P. M.
Boyce, Arthur Elliott
Bowler, William Emmons
Birks, Riley
Chambre, Meredith

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

308

MOSAIC LODGE, No. 218.

Clark, Amir Birno
Cook, Theo. Webster
Currier, William Perkins
Davidson, Jamee C.
Edwards, William Sawyer
Emmons, Robert Forest
Garrick, Adolph
Geisler, John George
Grimes, Edward
Gunzendorfer, Adolph
Gunzendorfer, Ferdinand
Goldstine, Samuel
Gould, Fred Colwell
Harmon, Sherlock
Hewitt, William John
Hilby, Francis Martin
Himmelsbach, William
Hove, Charles Gerard Van
Jacks, Will, P. M . .
Johnson, John Aleck
Kay, William, P. M.
Kennedy, Leo Eugene
Lee, Tom, P. M.
Leppert, Joseph
Lillie, Wm. Adam
Little, David Spence
McMillen, Hiram
Connelly, John. Thomas

McMurphy, George Bailey
Mitchell, Robert Grant
Moseley, Alex,
Meese, George William
Olmsted, Charles Shellma11
Olmsted, Henry Alex., P. M.
Olmsted, Henry Martin
Otis, Ney
Parker, Will Emory
Patrick, John Randolph, P. M.
Petersen, Chas. Wm.
Pierce, Frank
Pyburn, William Henry
Rowe, Herbert
Salterbach, Chas. W.
Sargent, James Patta
Scholze, Ernest August, P. M.
Schwarzenbeck, Frank Xaxier
Senestrari, Jacob Theo:
Severance, Howard Daniel
Stanberry, Raleigh J.
Stockdale, James Thomas
Swetnam, Isaac Newton
Towle, William James
Tustin, Thomas Reeves
Wright, Jonathap.
-66
Wroble, John Goodell

OFFICERS:

Charles Frederick Mess, Master,
William F. Johnson, Senior Deacon
Frank Lee Savage, Sen. Warden, John H .. Wilson, Junior Deacon
'
James Wm. Clarke, Jun. Warden, William H. Wright, Marshal, '
George Edwin Kennedy, Treasurer, Arthur L. Iienry, Steward,
William Schluter, Secretary,
Phil H . McVicar, Steward,
Thomas F. Brady, Tyler.
MEMBERb: .

OF DUES:

SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Manuel, Augustin Antone

* Degrees conferred during yee.t.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.

WITHDRAWN:
•sabin, Henry Wells

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT
Singleton, John Wesley

Lambert, Thomas Grafton

Livermore, Alameda County.

DIED:
Prinz, Herman Julius Otto

•

Anderson, Jamee
Anepacher, Simon
Archer, William
Armstrong, John
Bailey, Hiram
Bangs, William Edgar
Bardellini, Joseph
Barker, Benjamin Philips
Barnes, George Robertson
Barzelotti, Louie Francie
Beck, Madison Hartwell
Bernal, Denis Filbert
Black, Frank Simpson
Bonora, Victor F.
Bowles, Jesse
Burne, Herman Luther
Brady, Thomae Francie
Brumbaugh, James
Bruns, Geo. Andrew
Clarke, Jamee William
Qross, Henry N eleon
Decker, Henry Harrison
Demartini, Antonia
Dieckhoff, Diedrick
Duncan, Arthur Clarence
Fassett, Francie Bonello, P. M.
Fish, Albert Lester
Fish, Gardner Canfield
Foster, Arthur Owen
Gerst, Edgar Anspacher
Graner, Adolph Thomas

Hagemann, August, P. M.
Hayes, John Carey, P. M.
Henry, Arthur Lindsay
Herbert, William
Hortenstine, John Baker
Hunter, John Ramsey
Hunter, Ruben
Hutchinson, James
Inman, Daniel
Johnson, Lawrence Westerfield
Johnson, William Frederiek
Jones, Lewis Glynn
Joseph, Isaac C.
Kennedy, George Edwin, P . M.
Lafever, Howard
Lowenthal, William Baum
McDonald, David
McGill, H enry Gordon
McKown, Joseph Oscar, P. M.
McVicar, Philip Hugh
Mees, Charles Frederick
Meyers, Jacob Franklin
Miller, Edward Hershel
Munch, Charles Gottlieb
Norton, James T.
Owens, Owen Thomas
Petei:son, Charles Lorize
Pray, Clarence Syme
Randell, Maurice
Reimers, John Claus
Rivers, Edwin Winford

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

310

Rowlands, Edmund
Savage, Silas Lee
Schluter, William
Schrader, Frederick August
Scott, Thomas
Seller, Herbert Anspacher
Seller, Samuel
. Shierloh, Henry
Smith, Lewie Henry
Stone, Jamee Blackwood
Taylor, Andrew Charles
'Paylor, William Henry
Taylor, William Stewart
Therkof, George Alex.

Teeter, Daniel Marian
Teeter, Frank Ransom
Treadwell, Edward Clinch
Tretzel, Frederick· William
Venn, Thomae
Victor, Charles Solomo~
Warner, Jamee Kyle
Warran, William Theo.
Wente, Carl Heinrick
Wetmore, Clarence Jesse
Williams, Richard Griffiths
Wilson, John Hodgson
Wright, William Henry, P. M.

-89

. .,

SUSP.ENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Welle, Charles Samuel
Wells, John Thomas Farley
Holmes, Nathaniel Breed

DIED:
Taylor, Joseph Hardy

SPERANZA ITALIANA LODGE, No. 219.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, :first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Icardo, Master,
Ginotto Marioni, S enior Deacon,
Perseo.Righetti, S enior Warden,
Victor Emilio Lonigo, Jun. Deacon,
Giorgio A. Dondero, Jun. Warden, Clemente Peine, Marshal,
Giuseppe Carlo Sala, Treasurer,
Natale Marco Matcovich, Steward,
Giovanni Scalmanini, Secretary,
Luigi Cariani, Steward,
· George John Giocovich, Tyler. •
Andreazzi, Ubaldo
Aragona, Tony
Bacigalupi, Gaetano
Bacigalupi, Paolo
Balzarini, Carlo, P. M.
Bazzini, Giovanni
Bianchi, Carlo
Bacigalupi, Giovanni
Bacigalupi, Luigi Domenjco

MEMBERS :
Beccuti, Giuseppe, P. M.
Belli, Silvio
Berta, Pietro
Bianucci, Pietro
Bini, Giuseppe, P. M.
Blanco, Antonio Bua
Boccardo, Giovanni U.
Bonflgli, Emilio
Boeia, Guglielmo

•

•

:J3ozzetti, Ippolito
Bozzo, Michele
Bulotti, Giovanni
Calpe.e tri, Italo
Canepa, Giuseppe
Canepa, Lorenzo
Carfagni, Pietro
Cariani, Luigi
Caeearetto, Giovanni
Cavagnaro, Carlo Matio
Cereghino, Luigi
Chiappari, Giovanni
Cogliandra, Antonio
Cominoli, Giuseppe
Compagno, Matteo .
Condari, Teodoro
Cordano, Giovanni Battista:, P. M.
Coetamagna, Pietro
Cuneo, Giovanni
Cuneo, Tomaso
Davini, Andrea, P. M.
Damonte, Antonio
DeBono, Giovanni
be Farrari, Fred
De Julio, Cristofaro
Del Carlo, Giuseppe
Delmonte, Angelo
Dell 'Osso, Carlo
Deleoa, Francesco
Delsol, Giovanni Francesco
Demartini, Filippo, P. M.
Demartini, Luigi
Demartini, Paolo
Devoto, James August, P. M.
Digrazia, Lorenzo, P. M.
Domenici, Basilio
Dondero, Aurelio George
Dongo, Luigi
Eluro, Antonio
Fantina, Antonio
Filippini, Felice
Fiorio, Silvio
l!'ochetti, Mattia
Fodera, Antonio
l!'ontana, Giusto

Fontana, Marco G.
Gadina, Pietro
Gaibado, Giacomo
Galeoto, Severino
Garibaldi, Giacomo
Garibaldi, Giovanni
Giancoli, Pietro
Gotelli, Lorenzo .
Greco, Francesco
Grondono, Carlo Francese:>
Guanziroli, Luigi
Iaccheri, Garibaldo
Iaccheri, Leonida
Icardo, Giovanni
Lagomarsino, Carto
Lagomarsino, Giacomo
Lepori, Giovanni, P. M.
Levaggi, Giovanni Battista .
Lorenzen, Frederick
Lonigo, Victor Emilio
Maggio Fortunato
Mancini, Augusto
Marcacci, Antonio
Marchi, Giovanni
Marini, Luigi
Marioni, Ginotto
Marioni, Luigi
Marsili, Giuseppe
Martina, Pietro
Martinoni, James Frank
Masoero, Cesare
Micheletti, Alfredo Angelo
Micheletti, Italo
Micheletti, Pietro
Messina, Luigi Candido
Minelli, Zanabi
Mino, Giovanni
Monotti, Alfredo
Nave, Pietro Nave
Negro, Guiseppe
Nicholas, Nahan
Onesti, Guieeppe, P. M.
Puccinelli, Vincenzo
Paladini, Achille
Passalacqua, Benedetto

311

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

312
Pedrotta, Guiseppe Antonio
Peini, Clemente
Perata, Pietro
Perrone, Dario
Pesenti, Carlo
Podesta, Guiseppe
Poli, Ciro
Puccinelli, Archimede
Righetti, Perseo
Rittori, ~doardo
Rossi, Anselmo
Rossi, Giovanni Frank
Rovere, Vittorio
Rusconi, Gottardo
Russi, Bartolo Pietro
Sala, Giuseppe Carlo, P. M.
Sanguinetti, Guiseppe
Scalmanini, A. Beniamino, P. M.
Scalmanini, Carlo, P. M.
Scalmanini, Giovanni, P. M.
Sbarboro, Andrea
Simoni, Pio

MEMBERS:

Slavich, George
Sresovich, Luke
Stafford, Giovanni
Stuparich, Nicola
Stuparich, Stefano
Tassi, Antonio
Tomasini, Guiseppe Rolintlo
Tomasini, Filiberto
Torello, Emilio
Torre, Constantino
Torre, Giovanni
Tonini, Michele Gaudenzi•J
Torre, Ottavio
Toso, Marcellino
Trapani, Antonio
Valsangiacomo, Luigi, P. M.
Valv.o, Guiseppe
Verga, Guiseppe
Vitalioni, Alfredo
Zabaldano, Alessandro, P. M.
Zeiro, Filippo
Zunini, Domenico
-152

WITHDRAWN:
Gherini, Ambrose

Martin, Frank Emerson, P. JI.
Ardis, John Dawson, P. M.
Mayes, Robert Berry
Ardis, Julius Harris, P. M.
Monahan, Patrick
Baruch, Berthold
Neighbours, Burrel David
Brunson, Edward Atherton
Orr, William Warren
Caruthers, William
Paxton, Leonard Rupert
Church, Charles Robert
Pendleton, Matthew Rainty, P. M.
Condit, William Robert
Perkins, John Franklin
Darby, Arthur Llewellyn
Ramp, William
Dor.man, Dudley M.
Renfro, Thomas Faulkner, P. M.
East, George Earl ·
Rowley, Quinton John, P. M.
Fanning, Burton Everett
Ryan, Andrew William
Garrison, James Addison
Scott, Robert Lee
Gibson, Toy Berry, P. M.
Shanker, Barney William
Gray, Algernon Sidney
Shoemaker, Frederick Willcox
Gray, Austin Newell
Steinart,
Jacob
Hall, Alonzo
Stewart, Albert Julius
Harper, Robert Bills
Stewart, Alex.
Harris, Ranee Bird, P. M.
Taylor, George Washington
Haygood, Atticus Greene, P. M.
i'owne, 0. P.
Henry, Albert Perry, P. M.
Venable, Joseph William, I'. M.
Henshaw, George Marshal.I
Wathen,
John Bush
Houghton, Lake William
Whaley, Charles Mallory
Hull, Denton Elias
Woo·d ward, Samuel Kitchens
Lally, James Mathias
-49
Loew, Jacob
WITHDRAWN:
Parker, John Robert

!

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Costantini, Stanislao
Venturi, Talete
DIED:
Leonardi, Salvatore

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lawrence, Elmer Wm.
Shelley, Walter F. J.

Arey, Rubin Byron
Burke, Samuel W.

DOWNEY LODGE, No. 220.
Downey, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Robert Church, Master,
Toy Berry Gibson, Senior Deacon,
Dumont Dwire, Senior Warden,
Robert Bills Harper, Junior Deacon,
Robert Lee Scott, Junior Warden, Julius Harris Ardis, Marshal,
Arthur Llewellyn Darby, Treasurer, Robert Serry Mayes, Steward,
Leonard Rupert Paxton, Secretary, George Earl East, Steward,
Barney Wm. Shanker, Tyler.

313

•

Mitchell, Parley C.

DIED:
Ralph, James Wm.
Stewart, James

ROSTER.

314

INYO LODGE, No.

ROSTER.

315

GRANITE LODGE, No. 222.

221.

Independence, Inyo County.

Rocklin, Placer County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday .of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Lioyd de V. Skinner, Senior Deacon,
James E. Skinner, Master,
Max McCune Skinner, Sen. War., Jason M. Libbey, Junior Deacon,
George D. Calvert, Junior Warden, Norman J. Mairs, Marshal,
Julian E. Eibeshutz, Treasurer,
Peter W. Forbes, Steward,
William Daniel Dehy, Secretary,
William L. Skinn"er, Steward,
Fred'k. Guy Harvey, Tyler.
Benj. H. Yandell, Chaplain,

Albert Maurice Grindell, Master,
Ralph Lewis Stafford, Sen. Deacon,
Lewis Barrett, Senior Warden.
Frank Madison, Junior Deacon,
Isidore Levison, Junior Warden,
Harry Elsworth Boston, Marshal,
Samuel Oscar Odom, Treasurer,
Richard Herbert Wells, Steward,
William Huff, Secretary,
Forest Bowers Crafts, S'teward,
Edward Leonard Layton, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Anton, John Chari.es
Meroney, William Oscar
Miller, William Shuman
Brady, James
Mulholland, Irving Harvey, P. M.
Colvert, George Dallas
Neil, Albert Augustus
Conklin, Norman Edward
Cross, Ernest Lyon
Pidge, William C.
,Piper, ·Noah Twidney
Dehy, William Daniel
Eibeshutz, Aaron Washington
Rhine, Bertrand
Eibeshutz, Julian E.
Richards, William McAlli:oter
Forbes, Peter Wallace, P. M.
Sheppard, James Edward
Shepperd, John, P. M.
Fowle, James Elcho Zare
Sheppard, John Arthur
Gorman, John Sarsfield, P. M.
Short, Daniel W.
Gregg, Stephen Gregg
Harvey, Alvey Curtis
Skinner, Joseph Villey
Harvey, Frederick Guy
Skinner, Lloyd de V.
Lewis, George Hubert
Skinner, Max McCune
Laird, John Wash. Pierce
Skinner, William Lyle, P. M.
Libbey, Jason Mariner
Steele, Charles Henry
Mairs, Omie Isaac
Spear, Frederick R.
Mairs, Norman J.
Thurston, Samuel D.
Mairs, William Paul
Walker, August
McKenzie, James Alex., P. M.
Walker, Webster Hilton
McLean, John Gregor
Wright, James William
McLean, Nell
Yandell, Benjamin Hart
McMurry, Samuel Jackson
Yaney, Israel Putnam, Jr.
Meroney, John Edgar
-49
Johnson, David A.

DIED:
Mack, Pa trick Henry
Mairs, Jarius D.

...

•

..
. ,,

MEMBERS:
Ketcham, Marvin
Ailtill, James
Kelly, James
Barrett, Lewis
Levison, Isidor
Biscoe, Walter ]'red
Layton, Edward Leonard
Boltz, Clyde Harry
Madison, Frank
Boston, Harry l!llsworth
Maker, Rufus
Brenton, Walter
McKellipe, Daniel Ozmon
Burchard, George Henry
Mears, Edward Thomas
Butler, Frank Albert
Mullinix, Henry David
Clark, George Burt
Newton, Thomas
Connor, John Michael
Nicol, William, P. M.
Crafts, Forest Bowers
Odom, Samuel Oscar
Craig, Roy Hugh
_ Panabaker, Edward Elsworth
Day, Joseph Calhoun
Philippi, Carl John, P. M.
Delano, :J;ra Lemuel, P. M.
Roberts, William John
Dickey, David Allen
Scribner, Ernest Thompson
Duggan, Charles Martin
Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Duncan, Charles Douglass
Stafford, Ralph Lewis, P. M.
Dwelleg, Nelson Shields
Sterling, Edward Eugene
Dyer, Jay Ralston
Sweeney, John, P. M.
Dyer, John Ralston
Thyle, Alvin Clarence
Ford, James Casper
Trippett, Homer Charles
Filson, Lee
Vivaldo, Paul
Gillilan, Delbert Edwm
· Van Maren, Philip
Grindell, Albert Maurice, P. M.
Wanek, Christy James
Hanisch, Alvin August
Welle, Richard Herbert
Harris, Charles Samuel
Whallou, Samuel Norton
Rill, Forest Carlyle
Winne, Charles Wilson
. Hislop, Colin
Woodbridge, Bradford
Holder, John
Wentworth, Samuel Augustus--60
Huff, William

ROSTER.'

816

ROSTER.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PA-Y:MENT OF DUES:
*Taylor, John N. ·
DIED:
Warmington, Clarence Elmer

Ertle, John

BAKERSFIELD LODGE, No. 22+
Bakersfield, Kern County.

•

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each monfo.
OFFICERS:

Geo. Grant Hutchings, Master,
Elbert Porter Munsey, Sen. Deacon,
Edward Blaine Hayden, Sen. War., Benj . Brugler Thomas, Jun. Deacon,
Jabez Right Gist, Junior Warden, John Henry Carr, Marshal,
Frank Wilkins Robinson, Treasurer, Harry Grant Stuart, Steward,
Alonzo Deeble Whittemore, Sec'y., Charles Henry Schwain, Steward,
David Montgomery Crabtree, Chap., James Campbell Payne, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brower, Celcus
Alexander, Charles Lee
Brown, Andrew
Anderson, Calvin Vance
Brundage, Benjamin, P. M.
Anderson, Robert Merryw1!ther
Brundage, Benjamin Leonard
Arnold, Clarence Edmond
Bryant, Oscar Marion
Arp, James Harris
Buck, Howard Burdett
Baer, Charles Eugene
Baer, Edward Arthur
Cabe, Albert Lee
Caldwell, Alonzo
Bare, Reuben Henry
Camp, Frank Bartlett•
Baker, James Edwin
Carr, John Henry
Barnes, Henry Humphrey
Carson, John Lovell
Barnes, John Waddington Harry
Clay, William Oliver
Beal, Eldon Marius
Comer, Edward H.
Beatty, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Condict, Henry Ford
Beer, Lucian
Congdon, Charles Henry
Bickerdike, Charles
Conner, Caswell Lee, P. M.
Blodget, Claude Raymond
Coons, William Henry
Blodget, Hugh Allen, P. M.
Correa, George Augustus
Blodget, Percy Langdon
Crease, Fred John
Blodget, Rush Maxwell
Boggs, William Spencer
Crites, Arthur Saxe, P. M.
Bradford, Charles Edwin
Crites, George Solomon
Brench, William
Cruthers, Frank Dravo
Brockman, John W.
Darmes, Harry
• Restored during the year.

•

Davie, Frank
Duncan, Eugene Bennett
Formway, Louie Englehart
Forsyth, Donald Herman
Fox, Charles Douglas
Fox, Jesse Price
Frisselle, Ralph
Fry, John Adolphus
Garfield, Clyde Sherman
Gibbons, Walter Walden
Gillespie, Robert Martin
Gist, Jabez Right
Glenn, Ira Huston, P. M.
Glover, Thomas William
Grant, Aaron George
Grant, Robert Elmore
Hack, Frederick Bernard
Hageman, Benjamin Stry.ii:er
Hall, William Griffin
Handy, Thomae Benjamin
Hardman, Edmond J.
Harris, Wm. McMahon
Hayden, Edward Blaine
Heard, John Wilkerson
Henderson, Edward Earle
Henshaw, Holmes
Hiemforth, Peter
Hoffman, Archie
Humiston, Charles
Hunt, James Benjamin, P. M.
Hussey, Ralph Harman
Hutchings, George Grant
Jackson, James Reynolds
James, Walter
Jamison, John Mack
Jastro, Henry Alex., P. M.
Jerrue, Daniel Bernard
Johnson, DeWitt Wallace
Jones, Augustus Guy
Judd, Stoel Morris
Kaar, John
Kaye, William Wallace, P. M.
Kidd, Archie M.
Kimball, Will S.
King, Layton Judd

Longacre, John Jackson
Low, John Alex.
Lupton, George William
Mack, Julius Jacob
Macmurdo, Wirt Robinson, P. M.
Mahon, Jackson W.
Maio, Charles Francis
Mason, Harry P.
McClure, Frank D.
McCoy, Henry Dohrman
McDougal, Benjamin Greer
McKee, George Sidney
McKelvey, Lewis
McLane, Robert Bruce
McRae, Alex. William
Medina, John Blancarte
Metzgar, Elias Burges
Miller, Ieaae Le:fller
Milne, James
Morley, Joseph Vivian
Morris, Charles Alfred
Morrow, Robert Ewing
Morton, Albert Sumner
Mullins, Stephen D.
Munsey, Elbert Porter
Munzer, Francis George
Murray, Peter Allen
Neill, Hugh
Neill, John
Neill, Robert
Ober, George Kimball
Payne, James Campbell
Reynolds, George Augustine
Rice, Frank Sabinus, P. M.
Roberts, John Ellsworth
Robinson, Frank Wil)tlns, P. M.
Rogers, Guy
Rogers, Homer
Rogers, Lewis Styles, P. M.
Ross, Lyman Caskey
Rousseau, Elijah .
Rowland, Wm. Blackburn
Salle, George Hunter
Sawyer, Frank Newcomb
Sayce, Charles Tordift'ee

317

ROSTER.

318
Schamblin, Gustav
Schwain, Chas. Henry
Segur, Clyde Harry
Smith, J eese Murray
Smith, Byron Ellis
Snell, Frank Sebastian
Snook, John
Snyder, Frederick William
Bomberger, William Oscar
Stem, Louis
Stewart, Jphnson
Stinchfield, Herbert Colfax
Stockton, Christopher Col-lmbus
Stoll, Charles Michael, P. M.
Stone, James Edgar
Stroble, Godfrey F.
Stuart, Harry Grant
Swain, Arthur Hussey, P. M.
Taylor, Floy Joshua
Thompson, Louis Thomas
Tibbetts, Willie Edmond
Tilton, George Albert

Bender, Herbert Jacob
Innes, John .

Tubbs, Elba Auston
Tupman, Hamer Irvin
Tyler, William
Underwood, Wm._Edwin
Van Vleck, John Dorsey
Walker, Charles Thomas
Webber, William John
Weir, Dillard Spencer
Weller, Amos
Weill, Alphonse, P. M.
Whitaker, Perry.
Whittemore, Alonzo Deebl-:i
Whittemore, Harry Deeble, P. M.
Whorff,.Franklin Teed
Whittekin, Ralph Oscar
Wiard, George Edward
Wible, Samuel Peter
Wilbur, Parker Swift
Wilkes, Carl Perry
Williams, Hibbard Smith
Wright, Ernest William
-179

WITHDRAWN:
Laird, Herbert Frank
Warren, Geo. Randall

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :
Byrne, Nicholas
Graham, William John
Foster, George Emory
Taggart, Thomas E.
Target, Ernest Arthur

Alexander, Abraham

DIED:
Myers, Wilhelm C. L .

ROSTER.

BROOKLYN LODGE, No.

319
225.

East Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Walter Joseph Petersen, Master,
Edwin Lyman Sargeant, Sen. War.,
Walter Fearey Vane, Jun. War.,
George Henry True, Treasurer,
John Charles 'Foster, Secretary,
Thomas B. R. Crandell, Chaplain,

George Earle Kelly, Senior Deacotl,
Charles Henry Davies, Jun. Deacotl,
Herman C. Hermansen, Marshal,
Cyrus Franklin Briggs, Steward,
Charles Warren Cross, Steward,
Emanuel Lucas, Tyler.

MEMBERS :
Adamson, Daniel Paterson
Colvin, Fred Henry
Anderson, Alex. Watson
Conklin, Frank Granger
Anderson, Archibald Borhnd
Cook, Frank Bigelow
Anderson, Franklin Pierce
Cool, Russell Hopkins
Anderson, Thomas, Jr.
Copeland, Alex.
Avan, George_ Wash.
Corbett, Joseph Bailey
Ayer, Richard Bartlett
Corrigan, Clyde Sinclair
Back, Martin Andersen
Covell, Calvin Milton
Baker, John William
Cowell, Charles Herbert
Bangle, Edward
Cowell, Richard
Bassitt, Virgil Everett
Cox, James Warren
Berg, Aaron
Crandell, Harry Arnold
Berg, William Meyer
Crandell, Thomas B. Ripley, P. M.
Black, Samuel Thorburn
Crose, Charles Warren
Bontan, L~onard
Cumming, George Gordon
Bray, Anthony
Curran, Robert Alford
Briggs, Cyrus Franklin
Davies, Charles Henry
Briggs, Herbert Pasha, P. M.
Davis, Elliott Harrington
Brooke, James Hiram
Davis, Reeves
Brown, Henry Augustus
DeMooy, Harry Bernard
Buswell, Gilbert Sision
Dennis, George A.
Buswell, John Gill
Dickinson, William Edwin
Campbell, John Alex., P. M.
Dingley, Charles Llewellyn
Campbell, Murdock
Doane, Raymond Orrine
Campbell, Robert Vernon
Donaldson, William Augustus
Capell, Ho"'Vell Pratt, P. M.
Dow, William Alonzo
Castellanos, Salvador
Downey, John Charles, P. M.
Christiansen, Nis
Dunbar, Joshua
Cobbledick, Levans Newsom
Dunn, Daniel C.
Cohick, Walter Hildebrand, P. M.
Eliassen, Edward Ruseell
Cohn, Abraham S.
Ellison, Caleb Heacock

320

English, Norris
Evans, John Walter, P. M.
Evans, William Robert, P. M.
Everett, Frank Inches
Faunt, William John
Felley, Philomen Henry
Fish, Darwin Seth
Forsting, Lester William
Foster, John Charles, P. M.
Frederickson, Vernor
French, George Thomas Weadon
Fuller, Amos Leighton
Furgason, Charles Horace
Gardiner, Thomas Moir
Gibbs, William Thomas, P. M.
Gillam, Jefferson
Goff, Henry Franklin, P. M.
Grandjean, Eugene Henry
Gray, Robert Wallace
Griffins, Be_n jamin Hall
Grimes, Everett Mason
Hall, William Haynes
Halsey, Henry Luther
Hambleton, Charles George
Harbinson, George Washington
Harrington, John Alex.
Hartman, George Bressler
Harvey, Lewis Perry, Sr.
Hassard, Henry Houston, J·r.
Hatch, John Davis
Hatch, Theo. Henry, P. M.
Hawkins, John Timothy
Hayden, Kenneth McKenzie
Hazen, Edson
Heath, George Brown
Henderson, Herbert Beal
Henderson, John Ezra
Heney, Archibald Henry
Henshaw, William Griffith
Hermansen, Herman Chrilltian
Hill, Frederick
Hill, Robert
Hill, Robert Benjamin
Hodge, Charles
Jackson, Clyde

ROSTER.
Jackson, Edwin Rushmore
Jarvis, Charles Fritz Howard
Jess, William
Johnson, Emil Edward
Keller, David Conrad
Kelley, John Joseph, P. M.
Kempkey, Augustus, Jr.
Kempkey, Augustus Fred 'k Carl
Kelly, George Earle
Kirkhoff, Clay
Koppikus, Dudley William
Lamb, Willis
Leach, Harvey William
Lewis, Irving Cowham
Lincoln, Charles
Lindsey, Albert Wheeler
Lorenzen, Niels Christian
Lucas, Emanuel
Mason, George Henry
Mason, William Cowan
Magill, Arthur Edward, Jr.
Mazor, Milton
McLaughlin, David Henry
McLean, James
Mead, Lewis Risdon, P. M.
Melvin, Henry Alex.
Michener, David Biddison
Miller, Charles
Miller, James
Miller, John William
Money, William Thomas Caleb
Moseley, John Edward, Jr.
Muir, Andrew Robertson
Myers, Peter Johnathan
Newell, Chester V.
Norris, Thomas Wayne
Orra, Camille Frank
Pedersen, Bernhard Stork
Perkins, Fred Wilbur
Petersen, Walter Joseph
Petty, John
Petty, John Arthur, :P. M.
Petty, Joseph
Petty, Rowland
Phelps, James Glover

ROSTER.
Phillips, John Waterman, P. M.
Pierce, Howard Haynes
Plunkett, James Arthur
Pond, James Haven
Randle, Franklin Gilder
Read, Alfred Christopher P.
Rees, Howard Horace
Rennie, Francis John
Rice, Calvin Bacon
Rinehart, Wm. Barbour
Rowe, Harrison D.
Ruppert, Charles Henry
Rutledge, William
Sabin, John Murray, Jr.
Samuels, George
Samuels, Marcus Lorne
Samuels, Samuel
Sargeant, Edwin Lyman
Scherling, Ferdinand Charles C.
Schmidt, Theo. August
Schulze, Henry Atherton
Scott, John Walker
Seal, Alfred Blake
Seither, Frederick William, P. M.
Shapter, William
Simmen, Samuel
Smith, Byron Grover
Smith, Charles Horn, P. M.
Smith, Clayton Kerper
Smith, Frank Milton
Smith, Guy Window
Soule, Beach Carter
Spanggord, Severin B. L.
Spradlin, Charles Blanchard

Steel, Wm. Shurvell
Stewart, Frank Holman
Stewart, Michael Young
Stirling, Charles
·
St. Johnson, William Howard R.
Stowe, Charles Edward
Sutherland, William Archibald
Swift, Charles Ingham
Swift, Samuel Crosby
Tate, George
Thiele, Edmund Henry
Thomas, John Hiram
Thomas, William David
Todd, William Platt
Tonks, Wm. Henry
True, George Henry
Tunley, Adam Tinley
Vandercock, Edward Pickett
Vane, Walter Fearey
Vockel, Herman Theo.
Warren, Granville Dexter, P. M.
Webster, James Alvan, P. M.
Webster, Jonathan Vinson, P. M.
Welch, Bert Henry
Wentworth, Charles Oscar
West, Ross Raymond
Wethern, George Hiram
Wilcox, Wilbur J airus
Williams, Eugene Francis
Williams, George Roscoe, P. M.
Williams, Justin Leroy
Wold, Edwin J.
Woodworth, James Lemuel
-219

WITHDRAWN:
Backus, Matthew Watson

Espey, Robert H. E.

!1

~121

DIED:
Krause, Frederick Low
Pfenninger, Hermann

322

ROSTER.

SAN MATEO LODGE, No.

ROSTER.
226.

San Mateo, Ban Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, fil'3t Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Walter Lea Johnstone, Master,
Charles Arthur Wainwright, S. Dea.,
Grove Lawrence, Senior Warden, - Chas. A. M. Vandenbos, Jun. Dea.,
Lewis Ansson Smith, Jun. Warden, Carleton Edgar Durrell, Marshal,
Fernand Levy, Treasurer,
Thomas Wood, Steward,
·Eddy S. Moulton, Secretary,
Wm. Henry Cone, Steward,
Neptune B. W. Gallwey, Chaplain, Christ Eskilson, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Allen, Fred Walter
Ignace, Ernest
Appleton, William
Johnston, James Gilbert
Barron, Andrew Sculley
Johnstone, Walter Lea
Berg, August
Jury, Richard Henry
Bettelheim, Paul
Kenn()dy, Joseph
Blackburn, Daniel Edwara
Laffranchi, Antonio
Bonner; Robert
Larson, John
Bonzani, Antonio
Lawrence, Grove
Borden, Charles Wightman
Lawrence, Jacinto
Brewer, William Augustus
Lawrence, William Babco~k, P. M.
Brown, Arthur Stanley
Lea, Henry Elford, P. M.
Buchanan, Edward
Levy, Armand Archer
Chidister, Walter Clifford
Levy, Edmond L.
Cone, Wm. Henry
Levy, Fernand
Davids, Charles Henry
Levy, Fernand A.
Donnelly, Daniel Webster, P. M.
Levy, Joseph, P. M.
Dresbach, Charles Leslie
Luff, Herbert, P. M.
Duncan, George, P. M.
Maier, Henry
Durrell, Carleton Edgar
McCracken, John Porter
Eskilson, Christ
Mead, Benjamin L.
Fisher, Carl Wallace
Milliken, Albert
Gordon, Alexander
Morrison, Norman Donald
Gracier, Seth Bertram
Moulton, Eddy Stillman
Green, Milton James, P. M.
Nelson, Horace
Hans•m, Albert Marquid Otto
Nelson, William
Hatch, Alvin Schuyler •
Nickerson, Geo. Raymond
Hatch, James
Painton, Harry Renowden
Hatch, John Henry
Parkin, Frederick
Henwood, Arthur William
Peckham, John Bryant
Hodges, Judson Chase
Penton, Jesse, P. M.
Howard, Victor St. Clair
Plummer, Sanford

Rawles, Robert Allen
Repsold, Amandus ·
Robb, Jesse Galvin
Royden, Herbert Nathan
Russell, John
Sanderson, Fred Cirant
Schneider, William Rudolph
Smart, William Vernon
Smith, Andrew
Smith, Joseph
Smith, Lewis Ansson

323

Sneath, George Richard
Soule, ;John Alden, P. M.
Tilton, Howard Quincy
Turnbull, William Fisher
Vandenbos, Charles August
Y ankammen, Nicholas.
Wainwright, Charles Arthur
Wisnom, John
Wisnom, Robert James
Wisnom, Wm. Donnan
Wood, Thomas

-84

WITHDRAWN:
Norr,is, William Lea

Fillmore, Fred Burnett

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bigelow, Geo. Albert
. Keeling, George
Brill, Arthur Thaddeus
Thompson, Hiram Walter
Heyman, Jules Jonas
Wigger, Henry
DIED:
Edwards, Robert Alfred
Hatch, Rufus Henry
Emerson, Mark
Hartley, Griffith P.
Molzen, August Henry P.

ATHENS LODGE, No.

228.

Davis, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Elzy Wire, Master,
Henry Jacob Hamel, Senior Deacon,
Hugh Arthur Robson, Sen. Warden, Fred'k Warner Wilson, Jun. Deacon,
Carl Theo. Oeste, Jun. Warden,
John Frederick Henle, Marshal,
John B. Anderson, Treasurer,
Thomas Brady, Steward,
Arthur C. Hillman, Secretary.
Jesse Gray Rowe, Jr., Steward,
George Stamp, Tyler.

n.nderson, John B.
Bates, Walter Ernest, P. M.
Brady, James Henry
Brady, Patrick H., P. M.
Brady, Thomas, P. M.
Boatright, James Albert
·Brunson, Ruben B., P. M.

MEMBERS:
Carey, Geor,,ge Ransome
Chamberlin, Vincent J.
Dicky, Thomas John
Dietrich, Charles John
Gallion, Thomas William
Greene, Charles Edmond, P. M.
Gude, Richard

324

HOSTER.

ROSTER.

Gallagher, Joseph James, P. M.
Hamel, Henry, P. M ..
Hamel, George Frederick, P. M.
Hamel, Henry Jacob
Hamel, William Charles
Hanson, Claude M.
Haussler, ·George John
Haussler, William Frederick J.
Henle, John Frederick, P. M.
Henle, Joseph
Hillman, Arthur Constantine
Hite, Bert
Johnson, Henry Foster
Keser, Louis
Klays, Addison
Lehrman, August Fred
Libby, Alvin_ Bates
Maddox, Charles Wesley
Miner, Guy L.
·oeste, Carl Theo.
Pedrazzinni, Peter
Reid, Samuel McN eir

Reith, John, Jr.
Russel, Frank Edwin
Russel, William Ogburn, ~. M.
Robson, Hugh A.
Rowe, .Fesse Gray, Jr.
Sanders, Geo. Warren
Snider, Eli
Stamp, George
Sanders, Samuel S.
Sharp, Myron Phillander
Smith, Frederick Philo
Taylor, John
Tuft, Andrew Jackson
Tuttle, Benjamin B.
Weber, Frank
Wilson, Frederick Warner
Wire, Franklin Benjamin, P. M.
Wire, James Elzy
Woods, William Louis, P. M.
Wyatt, Walter
Zane, George Solon

-57

I

WITHDRAWN:
Nutt, Lincoln R.

•

DIED:
Read, Walter G.

•

SOLANO LODGE, No.

229.

Vallejo, Solano County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Fred Walters, Master,
Thomas Brown Dick, Sen. Warden,
Geo. Grant Halliday, Jun. Warden,
Melchoir Kemper, Treasurer,
Alonzo S. Halliday, Secretary,
Adam Armstrong McAlister, Chap.,

Adrian Philip Lovell, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Edwin Squire, Junior Deacon,
Frank Herbert Ripsom, Marshal,
Albert Stanton Miskin, Steward,
Frank Michael Drapeau, Steward,
Zachariah A. Jamison, Tyler.

t.

MEMBERS:
Adams, JohnAQuincy, P. M.
Halliday, George Grant
Anderson, Carl
Harrier, Louis Gara:boldi, P. M:
Anderson, William Oliver
Harrier, Victor .Virgil
Harris, George Gregory
Atkins, George
Hatch, Charles Napier
Aunette, James Lovell
Hayford, Oscar William
Bassford, Fordham Clay
Hill, Carl Albin
Basson, William
Hoey, Hugh Dennis
Baumeister, Edward Eme;--y
Holtog, Jorgen Jacob
Bessing, Joseph Jaques
Hosung, Charles Henry
Bragonier, Oscar
Huntington, Edward Talmadge
Brownridge, George Thomas
Burrall, Charles Frederick
Hyde, Calvin Lamphere, l". M.
Irvine, John ·
Chadwick, George Birney
Itrich, Franz Antone
Clyne, John Ross
Jacobsen, Uharles Simon
Coghlan, Joseph Bulloch, P.. M.
Cooper, Johnston Hilliard, P. M.
Jamison, Zachariah Antomo.
.Johnson, Jesse Claude
Cox, James Luther
Damstedt, Neil Carl
Johnson, Seward Thomas
Davidson, Edward W.
Jones, Humphrey B.
Jones, Thomas David
Deboldt, Frederick Rufus, P. M.
Jones, Thomas William
Demmon, George Washington
Judd, Edward Clarence
Dempsey, Fred 'k. Marion
Kell, Edward Eleazer
Dempsey, Harrison Edward
Kemper, Melchoir
Dempsey, Robert Boune
Langhlin, ,Bernard
Dick, Thomas Brown
Larmour, Harry
Donnel, Albert Franklin
Doolittle, Robert Curtis
Laviere, Frank
Lazelle, Henry Daniel, P. M .
Douglass, Charles Wallace
..
Leavitt, Daniel Henry
Dufour, Dempsey Franklyn,P. M.
Edmonston, Brook
Lemon, Frank Bertrand
Eklundh, Carl Frederick
Lockwood, Robert George
Loe:ffier, John Melchoir
Evans, Joel Clements
Farnham, John, P. M.
Longfellow, George Wm.
Fisch, Fred
Lovell, Adrian Philip
Fitzgerald, Clarence Ashbury
Marshall, James
Frahm, Henry August
MacLean, David
Fritshaw, Chester
MacLean, James Henry
Garland, Fred Hildreth
McAlister, Adam Armstrong
Mccarte, George
Gee, James, Jr., P. M.
McCool, Daniel Miller
Gee, William, Jr., P. M.
Giant, Mathew Kenark
McDonald, Charles Wood
Gill, Adam
McNally, Michael Joseph
Melvin, Nathaniel
Goldman, George Rowland
Halliday, Alonzo Sherman, P. M.
Michael, Harry Lockwood

325

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

326
.Miller, Frederick Heinrich T ueo.
.Miskin, Albert Stanton
Morris, Frank Napoleon, P. M.
Murray, Samuel
Nagle, Richard Wellington
Nielsen, Niels
Nord, Johan
Olson, Erland
Olsen, Ole
Patitta, Luigi
Peabody, Frank Joseph
Peabody, George Hewitt, P. M.
Pedersen, James Peter
Pressey, William Brown
Raakange, Robert
Ramsay, John, P. M.
Ratto, Charles
Reed, William Thomas Winston
Ripsom, Frank
RobertBOn, Robert Favery, P. M.
Rock, Peter
Roney, James, P. M.
Rose, John M.
Rottier, Christian Ludwig
Sanderson, James Edward
Shiilingsburg, Eliai:i
Smith, Curtis Cuthbert

327

NORTH BUTTE LODGE, No. 230•

Smith, Henry Judson
Smith, Wm. Whittock ..
Sorensen, Peter Karl Kristian
Stephenson, William B., P. M.
Stewart, Carl Vere
Stiles, William Enos
Stocker, Godfrey St. Maur
Street, Augustus Marlsberger
Street, William Thomas
Sullivan, Jeremiah
Sweet, Fred Samuel
Terry, Clinton Hays
Thompson, George, P. M.
Thompson, John
Treese, Elhannan Johnson
'l'ufreson, August Fredericksen
Wagoner, Missouri Arnold
Walker, Henry James
Walters, John Fred
Ward, William Frank
Weirman, Samuel Arthur
White, Andrew
Whitney, Andrew Jackson
Wiley, Alden Bridgman
Williams, James Edward
Winton, John Wilton, P. M.
-142
Woods, Lyman Charles

Gridley, Butte County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Richard Campbell, Master,
David H. Evans, Senior Warden,
James P. Fagan, Junior Warden,
George D. Wickman, Treasurer,
Homer Allen Woodworth, Sec.,
Thomas Jackson Long, Chaplain,

Bernhard Munter, Senior Deacon,
Chas. Augustus Schorr, Jun. Deacon,
James Marshall, Marshal,
Theo. Henry Arnold, Steward,
Geo. Wesley Blair, Steward,
Nelson W. Hogeboom, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Arnold, Theodore Henry
Baldwin, William Thomas
Barker, Washington Dunn
Beebee, Robert Martin
Bigelow, Marcus James, P. M.
Biggs, Edward Earnest, P. M.
Bissett, Thomas McCoy
Blair, George Wesley
Block, Charles Henry
Bonslett, Arnold
Brown, Charles Henry
Brown, Charles Henry
Burleson, William Davis
Campbell, Richard, P. M.
Campbell, Riley
Cannon, Thomas Bending
Chase, Charles Warren
Crusick, Fred
Crumb, Jones
Daniels, George Seymour
Evans, David Humphrey
Evans, John Alson
Fagan, Edward
Fagan, Edward Peter
Fagan, James Porter
Galbreath, James Thomas, P. M.
Granier, Charles
Hampton, James Madison
Heaney, John
Henninger, James
Hutchins, John Sullivan
Hutchins, Thomas Boyd

WITHDRAWN:
Petrie, Robert G'rant
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Arnold, Chadwick Evans
Black, F'i-ank Jury
Flatland, Martin
DIED:
Wilson, Henry

•

Jones, John Harvey
King, Charles Lee
Lavy, Wm. Sebastian
Long, Thomas Jackson, P. M.
Mahan, Edward Clifford
Marshall, James, P. M.
Mccurry, Samuel Baxter
Moody, Walter Ransome
Moore, Charles Alonzo, P. M.
Mould, William
Munter, Bernhard
Myers, James
Myers, John Calvin
:Norman, Richard Augustm1, P. M.
Rathbun, David L.
Ruff, Samuel Francis
Schorr, Charles A.
Shannon, George Washington
Shaeffer, John Franklin
Sheridan, David
Simpson, William Edward
Smith, Almon
Sperry, Willard Felton
Stafford, Thomas Henry
Stafford, William Henry
'!'odd, Nelson Franklin
Wickman, George Deidrieh
Woodworth, Homer Allen, P. M.
Van Fossen, Thomas Ezra
Young, John Cottrell
Young, Sewell John, P. M.
-63

328

ROSTER.

Porter, Jackson C.

ROSTER.

DIED:
Robinson, Robert Ernest
Taylor, Reese Bowen

JANESVILLE LODGE, No.

329
232.

Janesville, Lassen County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

COVELO LODGE, No.

231.

Covelo, Mendocino County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moo~.
OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Geo. Pierce Von Gerichten, Master, John Berton Christie, Sttnior Deacon,
Guy Pleasant Johns~m, Sen. Warden, Stanley Tyler, Junior Deacon;
Arad Way, Jtmior W arden,
James Alex. Woods, Marshal,
Geo. Benton Bailey, Treasurer,
Wm. Henry Clark, Steward,
Ira Eugene Bailey, Secretary,
Jerry Bond, Steward,
James Irving Christie, Tyler. ·
Wm. Emmit Agee, Chaplain,

'

Charles Henry Hurt, Master,
Lorenzo Brady Tuttle, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Ritchie Dennis, Sen. Warden, Wm. Francis McClure, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Owen Bowers, Jun. Warden, Francis Marion Thomson . Marshal
Andrew Hayden ·Bi1rton, Treasurer, John Wesley Grist, Stew~rd,
'
Walter Hargrave, Secretary,
Amos Dennis, Steward,
Henry Miller ~all, Chaplain,
Edwin Gibson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Asbill, Europe
Hurt, Charles Henry, P. M.
Bennett, Josiah
Liftchild, Judson, P. M.
Biggar, George Milton
Liston, Harry Finlay, P. M.
Bowers, Henry Owen
Loring, Fred Newhall
Brown, Albert Martin
·Lovell, Henry Solon, P. M.
Brown, Charles Ira
Marders, Robert Ambrose
Burton, Andrew Hayden
Marks, Henry
Carner, John Irwin; P. M.
McClure, William Francis
Cummins,. David Brown
Meyer, Victor
Cummins, George Wash., P. M.
Miller, Albert Harvey
Dennis, Amos
Peterson, Peter Hanson
Dennis, William Ritchie
Perry, Alex. Collier
Eldred, Horace Alex.
Purdy, Edward
Everett, Ralph Waldo, P. M.
Randrup, William
Finley, George Wear
Rea, Joseph Nelson
Fiske, James Saxon
Rhoads, William Denham
Foster, J ease Gilbert
Spaulding, Horace Reuben
Gibson, Edwin
Spurlock, Thomas Franklin
Goldberg, Conrad Harris
Thomson, Francis Marion
Grist, John Wesley
Travis, John Henry
Hall, Henry Miller
• Tuttle, Lorenzo Brady
Handy, Philo
Van Dyke, William S, Jr., P. M.
Hargrave, Walter
Van Dyke, William S., Sr., P. M.
Hornbrook, Sanders
Wattenberger, Jacob
-48
WITHDRAWN:
Van Dyke, Francis Marion

Agee, William Emmit
Bailey, George Benton
Bailey, Ira Eugene, P. M.
Bass, John Edward
Bass, Stephen Shore
Bond, Jeremiah, P. M.
Bond, Samuel Harris
Broadwell, Jacob
Clark, Charles Bates
Clark, William Henry
Christie, James Irving, P. M.
Christie, John Berton
Cook, Warren Daniel
Decious, Joseph Warren
DeWitt, Walter Beauregard
Doyle, Oscar Hill
Doyle, Otis Marks, P. M.
Dill, William Andrew
Elledge, John Robert
Elledge1 Robert Wade

MEMBERS:
Fortner, Samuel John T.
Gerichten, George Pierce Von
Grass, Leona.rd
Hemler, John Oscar
Hammond, Harry James
Jellison, John Edwin
Johnson, Guy Pleasant
Johnson, John
McDermott, James
Meylert, Gurdon W.
Otto, Anthony
Pullen, Granville, P. M
Rowland, Clark Church
Rowland, Edgar Frank
Smith, Isaiah Wright
Stubbs, Richard Nelson
Theodore, John Thomas
Wemple, N. V.
Woods, James Alexander, P. M.
Way, Arad
-40

DIED:
. Fisher John Lewis

..

330

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

CALISTOGA LODGE, No. 233.

331

WITHDRAWN:
McKelly, Lonnie Asker

Calistoga, Napa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

HOPE LODGE, No. 234-

John Wm. Siemsen, Master,
George Starr Cutler, Senior Deacon,
Edward Ephriam Light, Sen. War., John Charence Wilson, Jun. DeacoK,
Charles Wiley Crouch, Jun. War., Charles Afton Carroll, Marshal,
Ephriam Light, Treasurer,
Emanuel Hoover·Cable, Steward,
Fred'k Markham Cutler, Secretary, Wm. Abbott Colburn, Steward,
Newton Conner, Tyler.
Adams, Ira Winchell
Armstrong, Elbert Lawrence
Ashton, Franklin, P. M.
Barnhorsf;, William Frederick
Bassett, Ezra Amador
Benvie, George P.
Boland, Michael Sixon, P. M.
Brown, Harry Harding
Burgess, Charles Melzar
Butler, John Samuel
Cable, Emanuel Hoover
Carroll, Charles Afton, P. M.
Colburn, William Abott
Collins, Nelson Walton
Cordes, Tobias John
Crouch, Charles Wiley
Crouch, Francis Asahel
Crouch, Frank Sherman, P. M.
Cutler, Frederick Markham
Cutler, George Starr
Conner, Newton
Davis, Charles Grier
Decker, Porter Alfred
Evey, David Douglass
Failing, John Sanford
Foes, Charles Clarke
Frank, Ferdinand, P. M.
Fuelscher, Marcus Julius
Gehrman, Frank
Gerber, John Franci!I .
Gibbs, Horace Lockwood
Gravel, Francis Xavier

MEMBERS:
Hicklin, George Thomas
Hoover, Abram
Hoover, Charles Marion
Johnston, Richard Purchase
Kahn, Adolph James
Kimball, Reuel Mather
Light, Edward Ephriam
Light, Ephriam
Maclean, Marcus Alexander
Martin, Oscar
Mathewson, Carleton
McArthur, Archibald Henry
Miller, Harry Baughman
Pickett, Charles Nathan, P. M.
Pickett, Roy Dustin
Porter, William Henry
Rutherford, John Ritchie
Rutherford, Wallace Taylor
Safley, James Hunter
Siemsen, John Will~am
Simmons, Amos
Stevens, Charles Alexis, P. M.
Tamagin, Charles
Thirlwall, John Richard
Thomas, George H enry
Willis, David Conner
Wilson, John Clarence
Wolleson, Martin
Wright, Frank Talbot
Wright, Frederick A.
Wright, Joseph William
Wright, Joseph Carson, P. M.-64

'

Beckwith, Plumas County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS:

..

•

.

•
"

Leonard Greely Ede, Master,
Jackson H. Lawrence, S en. Deacon,
Llewellyn Hayes Hughes, S. Ward., John Wm. .Middleton, Jun. Deacon,.
John Lewis Mathews, Jun. Warden, David Heriot; Marshal,
A. P. Laffranchini, Treasurer,
Fred John Neseman, Steward,
John Calvin Ripley, Secretary,
Charles Laffranchini, Steward,
John Calvin Morgan, Chaplain,
Sylvester Augustus Thomas, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arms, William
Laffranchini, Antone
Laffrs.nchini, Charles
Bergeret, Joseph Aubin
Lawlor, Robert Emmett
Bridgman, Joseph Aron
Lawrence, Jackson Hathaway
Bringham, Marion Castor, P. M.
Marra, Federico
Cate, George Washington
Martin, Richard
Cate, Putnam M., P. M.
Mathews, John Lewis
Campbell, Frank
Mathews, Roger David, P. M.
Dedmon, Henry Pool
.
Maxwell, George Albion
Dedmon, John Washington
Merry, Joseph Francis
Dedmon, Joseph Asbery
Moffitt, William Lyle
Decker, John
Ede, Charles Walter
Morgan, John Calvin
Neseman, Fred John
Ede, Leonard Greely
Noee, Michel Joseph
Ede, Stephen Robert
Peck, Frank Ferdinand, P. M. ·
Frohlich, August Charles
Peterson, John Henry
Gibson, William George
Ramelli, David
Goble, James Edward
Ross, James Lincoln
Goodwin, William Holmes
Sanders, William Francis
Guidice, Mauricello
Scolari, Peter
Hamlin, Ray Arms
Smith, William Mitchell
Haskell, George Paul
ThomasJ Sylvester Augustus
Heriot, David
Titus, William Henry
Holman, George Prescott
Totten, John Graham
Hughes, Llewellyn Hayes
Webster, James Wellman
Humphrey, James Lockhart
Young, Forest Robert
Johnson, Robert Lee
Young, Plumas Arthur
Joy, Frank S.
-55
.Laffranchini, Acquilio Peter

ROSTER.

332

WITHDRAWN:
Anderson, George Edward

Christie, Lorenzo Manson

DIED:
Forsythe, John

ROSTER.

33.~

HILL'S FERRY LODGE, No. 236.
Newman, Stanislaus County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICEM:

SURPRISE VALLEY LODGE, No. 235.
Cedarville, Modoc County.

Leland Harris Parker, Master,
John Hardin Yancey, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Wm. Schank, Sen. Warden, Elmer Kuhns, Junior Deacon,
Adolph Dobrzensky, Jun. Warden, Alex. Munroe Williams, Marshal,
Thomas Grayson Yancey, Treasurer, Carl Peter Paulsen, Steward,
Howell Venable Armistead, Sec.,
Hans J. Smith, Steward,
William Bablan Sowers, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Pyle, Charles Hunter
Berry, Doctor Champlin
Ratcliff, Osmond
Cook, Harry Drake
Richardson, Elijah Allen
Cressler, William T.
Rose, Anthony
Ehrhardt, George Edward
Sawtelle, Frederick Adolphus
Gray, Elijah Davison
Scott, Gabriel Jackson
Johnstone, Thomas Henry, P. M.
Shackelford, James Henry
Jones, Joseph Lewis
Sly, John Elison
Lindemenn, John Burnam
Stanley, Ransom Heenan, P. M.
McClintock, Frank
McCormick, William Harvey, P. M. Stevens, Ward Spooner, P. M.
Thompson, Josephus Moore
Me:rryfield, Henry Lyman
Trimble, James Henry
Minto, Robert Wield
Turner, George Clark
Mullins, William, P. M.
Wylie, James, P. M.
Murdock, William Stewart, P. M.
Winder, Norman
-30
Parman, William Joseph

MEMBERS:
Morris, Julius
Armistead, Howell Venable, P. M.
. Ostrom, Gilbert Paul
Bartch, Frederick
Parker, Leland Harris
Bunker, Frederick Edgecomb
Paulsen, Carl Peter, P. M.
Bunker, Nathaniel Emmons
Pfitzer, Frank
Bunker, William Edwin ·
Ro bison, Elisha Henry
Cain, Jules George Sincere, P. M.
Russell, John
Crow, Edward Wyman
Schank, Charles William
Crow, George Henry, P. M.
Schmidt, Hans Jorgensen
Dalby, Samuel Price
Shepherd, Ruflis E.
Dobrzensky, Adolph
Sowers, William Bablan
Draper, William Fisk
Stratton, John Augustus, P. M.
Dunning, William Albion
Stuhr, Jasper Nicolaisen
Ed'gecomb, Frederick
Thompson, Nilse Andrew
Elfers, Charles Deidrich
Trefts, Charles Edgar
Fortune, James Pulaski
Hunt, Martin Luther
Tucker, Homer Celcis
Wanlhaus, Julius
Jensen, Hans
Williams, Alex. Monroe, P. M.
Klehn, Henry, P. M.
Worthington, And'rew Jackson
Kuhns, Elmer
Yancey, John Hardin, P. M.
Lathrop, James McElroy, P. M.
Yancey, Thomas Grayson
Lockwood, Nathan Kilburn
McDonald, Mark Elmer
Yates, Albert Davis
McLaughlin, Robert Emmett
Yates, Albert Lansing, P. M.
Yates, John Davis
McMurtry, Louis Campbell
Mills, Henry Hammer
-49

WITHDRAWN:
Cressler, Samuel Orrin

DIED:
Ford, Albert Joselyn

Stated Meetin"gs, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Norman Winder, Master,
Anthony Rose, Senior -Deacon,
James Henry Trimble, Sen. Warden, James Wylie, Junior Deacon,
Geo. Clarke Turner, Junior Warden, William Mullins, Marshal,
William T. Cressler, Treasurer,
Ransom Heenan Stanley, Steward,
Thomas Henry Johnstone, Sec.,
Harry Drake Cook, Steward,
Frederick Adolphus Sawtelle, Tyler.

DIED:
Brown, William

334

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

335

GUADALUPE LODGE, No. 237.

COLUSA LODGE, No. 240.

Guadalupe, Santa Barbara County.

Colusa, Colusa County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS :

John Giacomazzi, Master,
Virgil Linotti, Senior Deacon,
Orellino Morganti, Senior Warden, Elmer .McKenzie Hall, Jun. Deacon,
Walter Wm. Hokes, Jun. Warden, Vittore Pezzoni, Marshal,
Stephen Campodonico, Treasurer,
Frank Campodonico, Steward,
William Rosenblum, Secretary,
Paul Giacomini, Steward,
Samuel Clausen, Tyler.

Lora Lean Hicok, Master,
James David McNary, Sen. Deacon,
Adolphus Ahlf, Senior Warden,
Win. Clive Blean, Junior Deacon,
Geo. Peter Ahlf, Junior Warden,
Frank Zea Pirkey, Marshal,
Harry Freeman Osgood, Treasurer, Charl~s Walter Young, Steward,
Wm. Thomas Beville, Secretary,
Robert Edward Blevins, Steward,
Claude E. de St. Ma1.1rice, Chaplain, ·William Nichols Herd, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Aiguistapace, Felice
Lucas, William Thomas, P. G. M.
Birra, Giuseppe
McGuire, Nathaniel
Burola, Isarel M.
Morganti, Orellino
Campodonico, Frank Edward
Norris, John R.
Campodonico, Stephen, P. M.
Pala, Carlo
Carter, Paul Branch, P . M . .
Pezzoni, Battista
Clausen, Samuel
Pezzoni, Ernest Julius
Esterbrook, G. G.
Pezzoni, Vittore
Fevini, Peter
Powell, John Reese
Giacomazzi, John, P. M.
Rathbun; Fay Fillmore
Giacomini, Paul ·
Rhodes, Charles William
Gormley, Thomas
Rosenblum, William
Green, Edwin Burrow
Sampson, Wm. Foster
Guzzi, Clemente
Scott, David Silas
Hall, Elmer McKenzie
Smith, Martin Luther
Hokes, William Walter
Souza, Antonio Jose
Johnston, Alonzo Sidney
Tognazzini, Tilden Constance
Lapanchi, Angelo
Tognazzini, Ulisse
Laughlin, Henry James
Treppy, William Allen H.
Lewty, David
Woolley, Albert Vale
Linotti, Virgil
Zanetti, Severino
Lucas, Lee Foreman
-43

•

Ahlf, Adolphus
Ahlf, George Peter
Ahlf, Herman
Ahlf, John Claus
Anderson, Archibald Barron
Arnold, Phil Brent
Beville, William Thomas
Blean, William Clive
Blevins, Robert Edward
Brown, Uriah Waverly
Buster, William Harrison
Butler, Albert Burton
Cheney, John
Cilley, John Well!'!
Cosner, Robert, P. M.
D'Jarnett, John Burris
D 'Jarnett, William Burris
Daly, Arthur Burton
Denton, Harry E.
Etter, Henry Haverlock
Farnsworth, George Noble
For.d , Joel Haden
Ford, Samuel Ben
Goodnough, Cyrenius Rozell
Goud, James Wilkins
Greenfell, LeRoy W.
Grover, Johnson
Hubbard, William Henry
Harden, George Beatty
Harrington, Tennent
Harrington, William Merrill

MEMBERS:
Hart, James
Hicok, Lora Lean, P. M.
Herd, William Nichols
Holloway, Edward Shortridge
Hurlbert, Randolph
Jacobson, Emil
Jackson, John Lowry
Kass, John
Kilgore, Frank
Kilgore, Orin J.
McLean, Francis George
McNary, James David, P. M.
McVay, Irvin Nelson
McVay, Joseph Edwin
McVay, Willis Nelson
Miller, Jacob Henry, P. M.
Mitchell, ·Burr ~udson
Mogk, John Charles
Moss, John Jackson
O'Hair, Michael, P. M.
Osgood, Harry Freeman
Roundstone, Jesse
Percival, Walter C.
Pirkey, Frank Zea
Poage, Charles Allen
Rathbun, William Timothy
Retterath, George
Robinson, Oscar, P. M.
Roe, Harrison Alex.
Rummelsburg, Selig
Seawell, Josiah Lauderdale, P. M.

336

ROSTER.

St. Maurice, Charles Albert de
St. Maurice, Claude Edward de
St. Maurice, George Ed. de
Scarlett, Arthur Everett
Scott, George Franchville
Showler, George Edwin
Smith, George
Stanton, Joseph Byron, P. l.\l.
Swinford, Edwin
Terrill, John Rouch

ROSTER.

Thayer, Albert Austin
Thompson, Milton James
Totten, Marco Bozzaris
Vann, Eugene Bird
Vann, William A.
West, Joseph Simon
Vickers, Elmer Albert
Wilson, Worth Wilbur
Young, Charles Walter .
Zumwalt, Ivy George

•

-82

DIED:
Richardson, Charles

Peterson, Peter

SANTA ANA LODGE, No.

241.

Santa Ana, Orange County.
Stated ,Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full ·~Ioon.
OFFICERS:
Julius Reinhaus, Master,
Clarence Warren Sheats, Sen. Dea.,
Earl Ceo. Glenn, Senior Warden,
Ralph Waite Mead, Junior Deacon,
Archibald N . Zerman, Jun. Warden, Frank Ey, Marshal,
Max Reinhaus, Treasurer,
Leonard Frank Harvey, Steward,
Geo. Akerman Whidden, Secretary, James Richard Richardson, Steward,
James Hedges Hall, Chaplain,
George Eddie Robinson, Tyler.
Anderson, John l\jelson
Albee, Charles Stolf
Andrews, Robert Joseph
Angle, George Willard
Atwood, Elmer Dennie
Baker, Bayard 'laylor
Balcon, Baylis Greenwood
Ball, Charles Dexter
Barnes, H enry E. W.
Baxter, Charles Bruce
Beals, Albert
Benedict, George Marshall
Bird, Addison Elliott
Blake,. Edwin Meador
Blodgett, Volney Ebenezer
Bowers, Addison Crockett

MEMBERS:
Brock, David Truax, P. M.
Brock, Neal Ulm
Brown, Nathaniel Nelson.
Bruner, Francis Marion
Bundy, Milton John, P. M.
Butz, Adolph
Cheeney, Tilford Denton
Chilton, Robert Francis
Clark, John Ingram
Clark, William C.
Cobau, David
Collings, Joseph Sutcliffe
Conn, Frederick
Connell, Hiram Davie
Cotter, Jamee Stapleton
Crookshank, Miles Mcinnes

Cummings, James, P. M.
Cushman, Ruggles A.
Davie, Samuel McClellan
Dicker, Willet S.
Diers, Henry
Dolison, George Henry
Dorman, Dudley Marion
Dryer, George William •
Dryer, John Le.wis, P. M.
Dungan, Samuel Morrison
Dunstan, John
Edgar, George Alex.
Edinger, Christopher Columbus
Emerson, Lewis Sleeper
Emerson, Lucius Norman
Ey, Frank
Faust, George Andrew W.
Faust, Willis, Jr.
Ferguson, J oeeph
Ferguson, Walter Perry
Fife, Charles Cordella
Finley, Jamee Andrew
Fox, Charles William
French, Charles Edwin
Gardner, Arthur Bonnicastle
Garnett, William Muldrow
Garnsey, .Felix Rainey
Garnsey, Louis James
Gilmaker, Joseph
Glenn, Earl George
Gockley, David
Gordon, Howard Samuel
Greeley, John Philip, P. M.
Griffiths, George Whitefield, Jr.
Griffiths, William Light
Grubb, Wm. Lloyd
Guthrie, Robert Bums, P. M.
Hall, Jamee Hedges, P. M.
Halladay, Wm. David
Haleel, Oliver Linden
Hannah, Charles William
Harding, Foster William
Harrie, Herman
Harv~y, Leonard Frank
Hately, William
22

Hawkins, George Washington
Haywood, John Saxton
Heaston, Jamee Henry
Helwig, Benjamin Reason
Hermes, Albert
Hervey, Albert Rhodes
Hill, George Pliney
Hill, Herbert· Curtis, P. M.
Hill, Louis Hamilton
Hill, Samuel, P. M.
Hill, Thomae Morse
Hilton, Everett
Hoffman, Frank Thomas
Holt, John
Holt, Wm. Arthur
Huffman, Robert Lincoln
Hull, Harold Guy
Innes, William Law
Johnson, William Ira
Jones, Erastus Clinton
Kelley, Charles Spurwell
Kellogg, Hiram Clay
Kimball, John Wesley '!'rue
King, John Richard
Kinley, James Frank
Lamson, William Bradford
Langley, Edwin Theo., P. M.
Lane, Martin Luther .
Laurence, George Parker
Leiby, Harold Arthur
Livsey, James Edward
Levy, Louie
Lipking, Frederick William
Lovett, Charles Edward
Lutz, William Frederick
Luxton, Emanuel Henry
Makosky, Herman Frank
Mathews, Henry Thomae
Mathews, Mitchell
Mansur, Carlos Frederick, P. M.
Mansur, Frederick Warren, P. M.
Mason, William Bertle
McDowell, John Colvin
McNeill, Christopher
McTarnahan, Samuel Barrington

337

338

Mead, Ralph Waite
Medlock, James Randolph, P. M.
Menges, Marion Albert, P. M.
Metzgar, James Clow
Meyers, Henry Dietrich
Mills, Ira D.
Monaghan, Francis Elbert
Morse, Charles Horace
Morse, Nathan Frank
Mosbaugh, George Jacob
Munger, Samuel William
Nichols, John Brown
Nourse, John Thomas
Obar, William Shelby
Overshiner, Charles David
Overshiner, Clifton John
Owen, Albert Joseph
Page, Thomas Percival
Parker, Charles Edward
Parks, Joseph
Parsons, John Daniel
Parsons, Joseph Garrett
Padgham, Albert John
Parsons, John Fred
Peabody, George Thompson
Peabody, Henry Adams
Pease, Arthur Henry
Peterman, Benj. Franklin
Peters, Charles Edwin
Phillips, Jefferson Davis
Porter, John Robert
"Potter, Albert Alex.
Potter, Leroy W.
Preble, George Edward
Preble, James Orne
Pumphrey, Charles Hammond
Putnam, John Day
Reinhaus, Julius
Reinhaus, Max
Richardson, Erwin Ellsworth
Richardson, James Richard
Robbins, Osmond Milton, 'P. M.
Robinson, George Eddie
Rooney, James'Francis
Ross, Jacob

ROSTER.
Rowland, John Byers Anderson
Sackmai;i, John William
Shaw, Linn Lee, P. M.
Sheats, Clarence Warren
Sleeper, James
Smalley, William, P. M.
Smith, Alan Fowler
Smith, Ezekiel Bernaru, P. M.
Smith, Harry Roy
Smith, James Thompson
Smith, Robert Lee
Smith, Samuel Franklin
Stanton, George Munson
Stright, Henry Shannon
Sullivan, John C.
Sylvester, Harry Oman
Tiede, August Charles
Tillotson, J. Elizur
Towner, James William, P. M.
Townsend, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Trago, Eli Brock, P. M.
Tressler, Sidney Pinney
Trickey, Cecil Clayton
Trickey, Frank Stover
Trickey, Jasper Newton
Trickey, Thomas Nudd
Trickey, William Thomas
Trudo, Edward
True, Frank
Tubbs, Harry Sheldon
Turner, James Andrew
Tyerman, Thomas Benton
Uttley, Birkett
Vegely, Frank, P. M.
Violett, Charles C.
Visel, Augustus Jacob
Von Schriltz, Isaac Miles
Waffie, Edson Dwight, P. M.
Wall, William Burges
Wallace, Elmer S.
Warner, George Bradford
Wasser, Joseph Sylvester
Wasser, Wilbur Wellington
Wassum, Howard Allen
Werhly, John

339

ROSTER.
West, John Franklin
West, Zephaniah B.
Whidden, George Akerman, P. M.
Whitehead, William
Whitson, Walter Verne
Wilhite, William Lane
Wilkinson, Laurence Smith

Adams, Henry Martin
Close, Nathaniel M. P.

Winslow, Fred W.
Wood, Allen Jefferson
Wright, Alcinious Young, P. M.
Young, William Charles
Zerman, Archibald Napoleon
Zielan, John James
-225

WITHDRAWN:
Cory, Benjamin C.
Tubbs, William Lewis
DIED:

*Angele, Charles Bishop

Farman, Fernando Roswell
Hill, John Wright

MAGNOLIA LODGE, No.

242.

Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Philip Reynolds, Master,
Albert Thomas Eaves, Sen. Deacon,
SummerfielO T . Ricketts, Sen. War. , Chas. S. Cavanaugh, Junior Deacon,
Fred Lyle Johnston, Junior Warden, Joseph Riley Granger, Marshal,
Jacob I. Eisenberg, Treasurer,
James Arthur Coates, Steward,
Philip Crother, Secretary,
Wylie C. Nielson, Steward,
James C. Hassinger, Chaplain,
................ . . . . ... . ..... Tyl.er.
MEMBERS:
Conant, Frank Adelbert, P. M.
Cope, Walter Burton, P. M.
Crane, Jabez Tunis
Crother, Philip
Cunnane, William Bernard
Damm, Andrew
Eaves, Albert Thomas
Eisenberg, Jacob I.
Ferguson, James Leander
Foster, Frank Brooks
Frost, Samuel
Garcia, Manuel Francisco

Axtell, Joseph Daniel
Bainbridge, James Carden
Baker, George Russell
Beattie, Clay Hathaway
Bentz, Nathan
Bond, Charles Scott
Butcher, William Preston, P. M.
Carrell, George Russell
Cavanaugh, Chas. Smallwood
Clark, Wilson Lincoln
Clough, George Ben
Coates, James Arthur
• Degrees conferred during the year.

ROSTER.

340
Granger, Joseph Riley, P. M.
Hanlon, John
Hartell, John Edward
Hassinger, James Charles
Hawley, Walter Augustus
Hayman, Albert
Heck, John Wesley, P. M.
Hogue, James Valentine
Hollister, Harold Albert
Jeffress, Ernest Gunn
Johnston, Elmer Ellsworth
Johnston, Fred Lyle
Johnston, John Thompson, P. M.
Keiser, Milton Daniel
Kuster, Adolph I.
Lebo, Clarence Alva
Leckner, James Al.ram Garfield
Lillard, Jeremiah Beverly
Linquist, August Ludvick
Lorenzi, Bartolo De
MacBratney, William Charles.
Madison, Arthur Edward
Matthews, John.
Monteith, Andrew Ector
Morris, William Beachem

Dresser, Wm. Christopher

Morton, James St. Clair
Nielson, Fred Macfarlane
Nielson, Wiley Cleveland
Phoenix, Charles Elwood
Pritchard, Howard Monroe
Reynolds, Charles Philip
Richardson, Lance, P. M.
Ricketts, Summerfield Tippet
Ross, William
Rounsevil, Ashton Wm.
Rounsevil, Lyman
Rounsevil, Walter Howland
Scales, Horace H.
Sexton, Harry Eugene
Sloan, James Esler
Smith, James Wilson, P. M.
Smith, Rufus Dana
Stafford, Percy Monroe
Thomas, Benjamin Franklin, P. M.
Treadway, Clinton William
Vosburgh, Graham
Whipple, Joseph
Whittingham, Martin
Williams, George Martin
Wilson, Jerome Calvin
-74

WITHDRAWN:
Martin, Wm. Herndon

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Marbut, John Wellington
Day, Wm. Scott
Steel, Walter Dana

Hanauer, Moses

DIED:
Jamison, Tobias Belt

ROSTER.

341

EUCALYPTUS LODGE, No. 243.
Ha.ywards, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert August Kolze, Master,
Soren. Madsen, Senior Deacon,
Edward Wm. Jones, Sen. Warden, Martin J. Madison, Junior Deacon,
.John McConaghy, Junior Warden, . ... . ... . ... . . . ... .. . . .. .. . Marshal,
Charles Prowse, Treasurer,
George William Neudeck, Steward,
John Elmer Welsh, Secretary,
...... .. . . .. . .. .... ...... . . Steward,
Eli Howland, Tyler.
Alexander, Archie Addison
Alexander, George Edward
Armstrong, Joseph David
Austin, James Davis, P. M.
Backus, Matthew Watson
Bradford, Alonzo
Browne, Ralph Stuart
Brunner, Henry Ernst
Bennett, Edwin Olin
Bert, Andrew Strobridge
Christensen, Jens Lauritzen
Christensen, Hans
Christensen, William Tyroll
Clawiter, Edward Henry
Crosby, Peter James
Gull, William Davenport
Curley, John Edward
Curley, John James
Cutler, Frederick Storer
Dahle, Carl Oscar
Dennis, Frank
Edgar, George Avery
Fischer, Albert Ehrhardt
Frick, George William, P. M.
Gamble, John
Glass, Clement Rowland
Gray, George
Gorrle, Thomas Cullen
Griffis, Sabin
Grindell, George Edward
Howland, Eli

MEMBERS:
Haley, John Virgil
Haley, William Wallace
Harder, Jacob
Harrison, George E.
Hinckley, Horace Cameron
Johnson, Matthis
Johnson, Peter
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Edward William
Jordan, Leslie Alex., P. M.
Kolze, Robert Aug. Frank, P. M.
Krap, Jes Mathaus Hansen
Lassen, Hans
Lo:ng, Charles Stuart, P. M.
Lyons, George Washington·
Macintosh, James Thomas
Madison, Martin J.
Madson, Soren
Maggioli, Silvio
Mansfield, George
Martin, Paul
Mathiesen, Hans
Mcconaghy, John
Meek, Harry Wert, P. M.
Meek, William Ellsworth
Mitchell, Franklin Rising
Moore, John Wesley
Musson, Edwin Frank, P. M.
Neudeck, Carl Nicholas
Neudeck, Geo. Wm.
Oliver, Adolph August

ROSTER.

342

Oliver, Henry Andrew
Prowse, Joseph Bradshaw
Prowse, Charles
Prosser, John Raymond
Petray, Henry Calvin
Parsons, Isaac Brown
Russell, Thomas Bartlett, P. M.
Rowlands, William Edward, P. M.
Reid, Rinaldo
Reynolds, George Edmund
Ramage, Andrew, P. M.
Ramage, William Arthur

Schafer, Henry August, P. M.
Sequeria, John Joseph
Smalley, David S.
Stanton, Thomas Joseph
Sorensen, Hans
Thomas, Charles Frank, P. M.
Thompson, Hans
Thorup, Harold
Turri, Matteo
Wolff, William
Wooten, John Edward
Welsh, John Elmer
-86

ALCATRAZ LODGE, No. 244.
Oakland, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Cross121an, Master,
Charles Henry Sommer, Sen. Deacon,
Lewis Thornton Corwin, Sen. War., John Gustaf Sjoberg, Jun. Deacon,
Henry Adolph Meese, Jun. Warden, Herman Rittigstein, Marshal,
Warren Guice Mobley, Treasurer,
Jacques L. Vandenbos, Steward,
Herbert Atherton Glines, Secretary, Harry Clinton Barnes, Steward,
Louis Wm. Hale, Chaplain,
Sidney Herbert Farrell, Tyler.
Adams; Charles Henry
Adams, Claude Nichols
Adamson, Franklin Chris.
A'd amson, Geo. Wm.
Aird, Alex. Fisher
Aldrich, Hugh Shafter,
Alison, Archie
Allen, John Willas Tamas
Allgewahr, August Eugene
Andersen, Harold Sophus
Anderson, Edward James
Anderson, Wm.
Aspen, Edward Johnson
Austin, George William
Avan, William John
Baker, Alvin Walter
Baker, Henry Mathews

MEMBERS:
Baker, James Bartlett
Barnes, Harry Clinton
Barnes, James Louis
Barnett, Rufus Putnam
Barrett, Lawrence Whitlatch
Beck, John Henry
Bishop, James Robert
Blackwell, Robert John
Blake, Sherman Tecumseh
Blanchard, Cyrus Edgar
Bock, George
Bolster, Jeremiah Clemens
Borchert, Henry Augustus
Bramstedt, William Christian
Bronstrup, Gustave Adolph
Bruhning, Emil Geo. H.
Brnml, Arthur Benedect

ROSTER.
Buchanan, Alex.
Buckingham, George Albert
Burgess, Samuel WilJiam
Buzzo, Benjamin Heywood
Buzzo, Joseph Thomas
Cardwell, John Henry
Cardwell, Joseph William
Carlson, Oscar Rinhold
Carman, Charles Way
Carman, Frank Vanoy
Carpenter, George
Champion, Louis Frederick
Chase, David Bunnell
Chase, Quincy Acastus
Clark, Charles Anthony
Clark, Henry Adelbert
Classen, Albert
Climo, Samuel
Coates, William Henry
Cockburn, Wm. Alfred
Cogswell, John Benjamin
Comstock, Herbert Mark
Cope, Harry Beisly
Corwin, Lewis Thomton
Cotton, George Douglas
Cozzens, Arthur Eugene
Crandley, William John
Crawford, Frank Reed
Crossman, Archie Kean
Crossman, Edwin John
Crossman, John
Crossman, William Thomas
Cummings, Lawrence Wash.
Dailey, William Curtis
Dallerup, Benjamin
Dallerup, John
Davidson, William
Davis, Charles Franklin
Davison, William Gardiner, P. M.
Deaner, Hiram Franklin
Dickerson, James Henry .
Dickson, George
Deardorff, William Perry
Deckard, Stephen Anderson
Dieves, Charles Isaac

Dieves, Joseph August
Dodds, 'l'homas Garfield
Douglass, Frank Johnson
Dunsmore, William Gelchrist
Eames, George Washington
Edmonds, Thomas
Edwards, Henry John
Edwards, Walter John
Eiben, Frederick Gerhard
Erwin, David Lyttle
Fairchild, Claude Wilkins
Farrell, Sidney Herbert
Farrell, Sidney Herbert, Jr.
Fay, Max Henry
Finely, Charles John Jasper
Fraser, John Eugene
Fraser, Neil
Gardner, David Thomas
Gardner, Hiram Smith
Gemmell, Stewart Farwell
Gentis, William Ira
Gibson, Charles Luke
Glines, Herbert Atherton, P. M.
Godbeer, William
Graham, Edward Joseph
Graham, Robert Grant, P. M.
Graham, William Joseph
Gray, Frank Virgil
Gray, James
Greenlee, James William
Greenwald, Frank Julius
Hadcock, Eugene Berrel
Hale, Henry Hubbard
Hale, Louis Wm.
Hall, James
Harjes, William Ed.
Harrigan, John William
Harris, Theo. Howard
Havard, Richard Daniel
Heckell, William Frederic
Helmore, Paul Algernon
Helvie, Roscoe S.
Herrma.nn, Andrew
Hewitt, Lowen Gifford
Hignera, Ferdinand

343

344
Hufschmidt, Alfred Frederick
Huggins, Henri Tyler, P. M.
Hunter, William Alex., P. M.
Hutton, David
Ingersoll, Clarence George
Isaacs, Alfred Solomon
Jamieson, John Carlyle
Jansson, Fritz Paul
Johnstone, Andrew Edward
Johnstone, John Crawford
Johnstone, Robert
Jones, Mathew Hines
Jorgensen, Johannes Christian
Jurgens, Charles Henry
Kahn, Henry
Kahn, Solomon
Karman, Andrew Izadore
Keiser, Chris
Keyser, John Harold
Kieley, John Francis
Kirschbaum, Jans Peter L.
Krytser, Charles John
Kydd, Isaac Ferguson
Lagerson, Walter Henry
Lane, William
Lang, Frederick William
Langford, Thomas
Lawry, William John, P. M.
Linster, Peter Edward
Long, Albert Vance
Long, William
Love, Thomas, P. M.
Lowell, Frank
Lumsden, William Stephen
Lundin, August
Lutgen, George Vest
Lutgen, John Peter
Macdonald, Charles John
MacGregor, Henry Mortimer
Madison, Maurice Austin Henry
Mahony, William Henry
Mangan, John Martin
Marcus, Geo. Peter
McComb, Edward
McDonald, Frank Jesse

ROSTER.
McDonald, George Bruce
McGuffick, George Nelson
McKean, Albert Atwater, P. M.
McKeen, Arthur Hugh
McKeen, Herman Scott
McKellar, Alexander
McKenzie, Joseph Henry
McLean, Edward John
McLeod, Angus Martin
McNulty, Richard John
McRae, John Henry
Meade, Linley Merwin
Medros, Joseph Jason
Meese, Henry Adolph
Megraw, George Emery
Melvin, James Garland
Merrill, Arthur
Mobley, Warren Guice, P. M.
Moon, Holly Francis
Moore, John Briggs
Moore, John Thomas
Moore, Richard Geo.
Moore, Robert H.
Morey, Charles Erastus
Mosbacher, George
Mueller, Ernest
Murphy, Eugene Joseph
Murphy, James Joseph
Myrick, John Brown
Nash, Chester Bell
Neal, William Waterman, P. M.
N edderman, Benjamin
Neilsen, Francis Joseph
Neilsen, Hans Frederick
Nicol, William Scott
Nissen, Julius Linnit '
Nor, Andrew Jorgensen
Nussbaum, August Otto
0 'Brien, Thomas Edward
O'Neil, Peter J.
Parker, David Elmer
Partridge, Abram Peter
Pasquale, Edward Valentine
Peacock, Alfred, P. M.
Perkins, Eugene S., P. M.

ROSTER.
Peterson, Peter Hansen
Pett, David
Pierson, Willard Hubbel
Porter, George Washington
Poulson, Christian Nicolia
Preslar, Henry Allan
Prince, Julius Theban
Pringle, James
Putney, Edward Fisher
Putzar, Edward Louis
.R aphael, William Kinney
Redington, Charles Henry, Jr.
Redington, Charles Henry, P. M.
Redington, Jo Peter
Reed, James Lon
Reed, Thomas
Reilinger, Edward Nathan
Rerat, Albert Louis
Rhein, William H.
Rice, Mark Desmond
Rittigstein, Herman
Robertson, Albert Atwater
Robertson, Daniel
Robertson, Robert
Rogers, Edward Almond
Ruley, Guy Fairfax
Russell, William Hicks
Sanborn, William Kelly, P. M.
Sandelin, Charles Frederick
Sargent, George
Sartori, Augustino Paulo
Scheithe, Carl F.
Schiveley, Arthur Marion
Schnidler, Henry Btrnard, P. M.
Schrock, William A.
Schu, Charles Henry
Schwarz, Henry,'P. M.
Searles, Niles, Jr., P. M.
Seller, John
Sheldon, William Wallace
Sherrott, Frederick Albert
Sjoberg, John Gustaf
Skilling, Henry Hugh
Slaven, John Thompson
Smith, George Frederick

345

Smith, Julius Cassius
Smith, Orville, Alex.
Smith, William Owen
Snook, William Sayer
Snook, Charles Edward, P. M.
Solomon, Isadore Edward
Sommer, Charles Henry
Sorensen, Hans Frederick
Sorensen, Jesse Reinhold
Stephens, Samuel
Stephens, Thomas
Stokes, Levi
Story, William Riley
St. Pierre, John
Stromgren, Gustave Adolph
Suber, Timothy Brooks
Swenson, Charles
Tait, Allen James
Tambs, Emil
Tambs, Hartnig Carsten
Tarr, Alvin Eugene
Thomas, Charles Goodwin
Thomas, William John
Thomson, James
Torrence, Henry George
Trefethen, Eugene Augustus, P. M.
Trombley, Henry
Undhjen, Ole
Vandenbos, Jacques Leonard
Vetter, Nicholas
Walker, Thomas Rose
Walker, William Henry
Walters, Valentine
Wave, Francis Edgar
Warness, Axel Christoffer
Warness, Paul Andrew
Watson, Warren Mortimer
W eigt, William Albert
Weston, William Pomroy
White, Albert Frederick
White, Cornellius
White, Herman Shea
Whitehead, Thomas
Wiley, Jasper Grant
Wilkes, Farrington

346

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

Wilkes, William Ernest
Willard, Charles Martin
Williams, Ernest Clement
Williams, Frank Delmore
Williams, John Jones
Williams, Robert Richard
Wills, John Tyzzer
Wilson, Andrew John

Wilson, James ii.
Winsboro, William Arthur
Withrow, Walter Huston
Wooley, Eliphat Burt, P. M.
Wrede, August Adolph
Wyllie, Robert Pedan
_Y ork, Albert Thomas
-320
Zeimer, Henry Kahn
WITHDRAWN:

Austin, Robert Harrison

Isaacs, John Dove

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Christensen, Christ
Edgecomb, Richard P.
Dudley, Wm. Moses
Moffit, Joseph Duyer
White, Joseph
DIED:
DesCormiers, Charles B.

McWade, David Franklin
Rosebury, James

LAUREL LODGE, No. 245.
Willows, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles John Lathrop, Master,
Samuel M. Chaney, Si:n. Warden,
John Russell Hanlon, Jun. Warden,
James Madison Silvey, Treasurer,
Lew Ernest Wickes, Secretary,
Wm. Winfield Scott, Chaplain,

Edwin Moore Garrison, Sen. Deacon,
Byron Otis Cobb, Junior Deacon
Thomas L. Knock, Marshal,
'
August John Linderoot, Steward,
Ellis J. Livy, Steward,
John Henry Zumwalt, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Bailey, John Amity
Barber, Henry Dwight
Barham, Edwin
Barham, Marcus Lafayette
Baylor, William Catlett
Boyd, James
Brock, Irving
Brock, Malcom
Bungard, George

Burrows, Clarence Emmette
Cardiff, George Henry
Carr, Theron Francis
Chaney, Samuel Marshall
Cobb, Byron Otis
Cowart, Zachariah Taylor
Crawford, Fred 'k Gustavus, P. M.
Crawford, Russill Tracey
Curry, Isaac

Danner, Jefferson Davis, P. M.
Davis, Charles Wilson
Duncan, Addison Eugene
Elliott, Henry Baker, P. M.
Farnham, Daniel Cromwell
Finch, William Morton, P. M.
Freeman, Frank
Freeman, George Richard
Freeman, William Valentine
Garnett, Hugh McCune
Garnett, Peter Richard
Garrison, Edwin Moore
Graves, Fremont Ashurst
Graves, John Hiram, P. M.
Gutman, Gustavous Arthur
Hanlon, John Russill
Hatcher, George Jackson
Heeran, Henry Amandus
Hirsch, Otto Nathan
Hochheimer, Ira
Hochheimer, Moses, P. M.
Johnson, James Olis
Klammer, Lewis Jacob
Knock, Thomas L.
Lathrop, Charles John
Linderoot, August John
Long, Robert Augustus, P. M.
Luman, William Eugene
Lyons, Patrick
Markewitz, Milton
Marshall, William Walker
McDaniel, Joseph Elijah
McRae, AleL

Mellor, George
Merrill, William Reed
Miller, Isaac
Mitchell, James Henry
Moody, Frank, P. M.
Moore, Harry
Newman, Charles
Nordyke, Marion Augustus
Orr, George Wesley, P. M.
Pirkey, Oval
Pollock, .Joseph Edwin
Raper, Orville Lawrence
Rasor, Andrew Jackson
Raulins, Frank
Rhodes, Howard Eustace
Robison, Enos Cordell
Scott, William Winfield, P. M.
Silvey, James Madison
Smith, William Augustus
Snowden, James William
Stewart, Francis Davis
Talcott, Frederick William
Tyler, Elias Mortimer, P. M.
Walker, John
West, Hiram Leroy
Wickes, Harvey Orin
Wickes, Lew Ernest
Willard, Alex. Hamilton, P. M.
Williams, Frank Wesley
Winkler, James Jackson
Wylie, Hartsoii Delmar
Wylie, John Elsworth
Zumwalt, John Henry
-84

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Dethlefs, Marx Clausen
Nordyke, Abram Andrew

347

DIED:
Snowden, George Washington
Tooley, Logan Porter

348

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

POMONA LODGE, -No. 246.
Pomona, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Walter Atwood Lewis, Master,
James Henry Wilkinson, Sen. Dea.,
Wm. Alfred Vandergrift, Sen. War., Edwin Wilton, Junior Deacon,
Jerome Adelbert Ludden, Jun. War., Edward Ludwig Dreher, Marshal,
Charles Micah Stone, Treasurer,
Chas. Richard Hutchings, Steward
John Wasson, Chaplain,
Chas. Arthur Steadman, Steward
Orrion Austin Warner, Tyler.
'
1

MEMBERS:
Allen, Frederick Madison
Anderson, Henry Clay
Androus, Samuel Newell
Armstrong, James Lapsley
Ashton, Palmer
Avery, Albert Sinclair, P. M.
Bell, James Edwin
Bell, William Alonzo
Bowen, Charles Oscar
Bigham, John Ross
Bowen, John F.
Brown, Frederick Alfred
Brown, Rae
Bryant, Leslie George
Caldwell, Andrew Becton
Caldwell, Gus Becton
Camp, Orrin B.
Campbell, Melvin
Carter, Ira Caleb
Clark, Charles
Clark, Charles Ralph
Cogswell, Franklin
Cohn, Nathan
Cowdery, George Willis
Cowles, Lyman Warner
Craig, Gavin
Cramer, William Theo.
Debrunner, Vitus
Dickie, William
Dole, Arthur Macdonald
Dorsey, Kewen Hillard

Doughty, Charles Homer
Douglas, Joseph
Dowling, Thomas Jackson
Dreher, Charles John
Dreher, Edwin Ludwig
Dreher, Peter John
Dye, John Hiram
Edwards, George
Eells, George Nelson
Fitch, Joseph Ahira
Ford, Seldom Irwing
Fosdick, Clarence Watson
Frankel, Samuel
Friedman, Herman
Gallup, John Adam, P. M.
Garcelon, Frank, P. M.
Garcelon, Harris
Garthside, Joseph Relton, P. M.
Geer, Francis Herman
Gerling, Edgar Schroder
Graham, Fred Eugene
Grant, Arthur Cameron
Ransler, Frank Ernest
Hanson, Hans Broderson
Haskin, Lorenzo Hix
Hefti, Rudolph
Hibbard, Ethan Allen
Hennessey, William John
Henderson, Edward
Herder, William
Hicklin, Edward

Hinman, Elliott_
Hoffmaster, Edgar Joseph Lemp
Huff, Charles Clark
Huneman, William
Hunter, Arthur Daniel
Huse, George Elmer
Hutchings, Charles Richard
Hyatt, Frank Henry
Irwin, Silas S.
Jess, Stoddard
Johnson, Frank Walter
Kauffman, Park Wilford
Kerckhoff, Hermann Henry
Kessler, William
Kiler, William Harrison
Kinney, Harry Hartman
Lewis, Frederick Rice
Lewis, Walter Atwood
Llewellyn, Frederick B., P. M.
Loney, James
Ludden, Collins Adelbert
Ludden, Jerome A.
Lyon, Will Bently
Manchester, Erastus Taylor
Martin, Albert Bruce
Martin, William Thomas, P. M.
Martin, William Claiborn
McCormick, William Arthur
McGowan, James Edwin
McQuitty, David Crane
Merrill, George Whitney
Metz, Meethell Kar
Midgley, William Wentworth
Milliken, Thomas DTaper
Mills, James William
Molyneaux, Francis Asbury
Monahan, John William
Moon, Thomas James
Morris, Noah
Morrison, Edward Hugh
Mosher, George Erastus
Mumford, Ira Edgar Leroy
Newman, Orlander Jay
Nichols, Allen Penfield, P. M.
Nichols, Hervey James

Overhaltzer, Oscar Lee
Phillips, George Stephen
Phillips, William Riley, P. M.
Pool, George Anthony
Poston, William Herbert
Powers, James Macnish
Powell, William Lytle
Raynes, Frank
Reed, Alfred Cummings
Reed, Alfred Riley
Rice, George H_e ber
Richards, Adison Whiteker
Rickerich, William Henry
Robinson, Edward Clark
Robinson, George Printiss
Robords, Charles Harrison
Scott, Henry
Seaver, Carlton, P. M.
Seaver, Frank Roger
Shutt, Fred Ordway
Smith, William Daniel
Spicer, Charles
Staig, Arthur Davis
Stapley, Walter
Steadman, Charles Arthur
Steele, Robert Cauley
Steffa, George Addison
Stevenson, Ira
Stone, Charles Micah
. Stormer, William Ernest
Swindt, Joseph Keener
Talbott, Charles Wesley
·Teagiie, David Clinton
Teague, Walter
Thomas, Frank Webster
Todd, Walter Brewster
Toland, Clarence Gains .
Truitt, William Henry, Jr.
Turner, George Madison
Twomey, Samuel Sparks
Vandergrift, William Alfred
Warner, Orrion Austin
Wasson, John
Weigle, Charles Fred
Welch, Everett Haskell, P. M.

349

ROSTER.
Wentworth, Clyde Samuel
Wheeler, Frank
White, Darius
White, Frederick Alson
White, Jay John
Whyte, John
Wilcox, John Wealton
Wildman, William
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson
Wilkinson, James Henry

ROSTER.

Williams, Noah
Wilson, Charles Patton
Wilton, Edwin
Witman, Alex. Hamilton
Witman, Alex. Hamilton, Jr.
Wolfersberger, John Fohl ·
Wright, Charles Digby
Wright, Silas Goold
Wyman, Francis George
-171

\

WITHDRAWN:
Curtis, George Elmer

Fox, Ernest M.
Mcintosh, Robert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Twomey, James Sparks

FRESNO LODGE, No. 247.
Fresno, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ardie Lee Smith, Master,
George Marks, Senior Deacon,
Clarence Wm. Edwards, Sen. War., Herbert Levy, Junior Deacon,
Emil Fred'k Bernhard, Jun. War., Joseph Lyman Beall, Marshal,
Leopold Gundelfinger; Treasurer,
Hans Graff, Steward,
John Dewey Galloway, Secretary,
Wm. Francis Dunn, Steward,
Chas. Anderson Munn, Chaplain,
Alexander Jenkins, Tyler.
MEMBERS.·
Aarestrup, Theo.
Alexander, Walter Edwin
Allen, Axel
Allum, LeRoy Martin
Anderson, Frank Arthur
Anderson, Gus Walter
Anderson, James
Apply, Judson
Armstead, Robert Grieve
Ashman, Stonewall Jackson
Bachant, David Lewis
Bagley, Francis Sylvester

Bang, Anders
Barham, Courtney L.
Barnesberger, Henry
Barnwell, David Monroe
Barrett, Charles William, P. M.
Bates, Dudley Urias
Beall, Joseph Layman, P. M.
Belfils, Ernest Kreichbaum
Benas, Isaac
Bernhard, Emil Frederick
Berry, Fulton Greene
Beveridge, George Paxton

1

Bibbero, Sam
Bodwell, Samuel Procter
Boles, George Marion
Bomgardner, John Adams
Bowdish, Percival
Bowie, Albert
Bramblett, James Mitchell
Brooks, Albert Preston
Brooks, William Washington
Bullock, Edward
Burdick, Arthur Wadsworth
Burk, John T.
Burke, Fred Miller
Burks, Floyd Launcelot Rowell
Burks, William Tilman
Burleigh, Charles Morrell
Burnham, Floyd
Burness, Hector
Bush, Edward Everett
Butler, Alban Bernard
Butler, Richard Blanton
Byrd, Charles H.
Cate, James Wilbur
Cathcart, Benjamin Franklin
Challup, Charles Martin
Church, George Emory, P. M.
Clark, Angus Marion, P. M.
Coddington, Oliver Clinton
Coffman, J. W.
Cohn, Solomon Jacob
Collins, Alfred Scott
Collins, James Darwin
Colson, Benjamin Young
Comfort, Aaron R.
Cooley, Menzo Wesley
Cornforth, Charles Henry
Cosgrave, George, P. M.
Cronkite, Bert E.
Davidson, Joseph Dobbins
Davison, William
Deal, John Hamme Smith
DeLong, Charles Warren
Dellman, Ernest
Dennett, William Bibb
Dressell, John Christopher

351

Detoy, Charles L.
De Voe, Robert Joseph
Dunn, Thomas
Dunn, Tom Montana
Dunn, William Francis
Eckland, Charles Maurice
Edwards, Clarence William
Edwards, Edward Darnell, P. M.
Egan, James Henry
Elliott, George
Ely, Millett
Enloe, 'llenry Enoch
Errett, Henry Fred K.
Ewing, David Shelby
Fry, Edwin Claude .
Galloway, John Dewey
Goddard, Henry Albert
Goggin, Richard DeLacy
Goldstein, Alex.
Goodman, Solomon Bearline
Graff, Hans
Gray, Lee Lincoln
Grunig, Charles
Gundelfinger, Emil
Gundelfinger, Leopold
Hague, Benjamin Murrell
Hague, Berry Madison, Jr., P. M.
Hammer, Richard LaFayette
Hammond, Thomas Jefferson
Hanner, John William
Hansberger, Henry Stone
Hanson, Harvey Stickney
Hanson, William George
Harris, Milus King
Harris, Rollin Romney
Harris, William John
Harrold, Thomas Richard
Hart; Alvin Curran
Hart, Leon
Hayden, Edward Martin
Hays, Oliver Thomas
Henry John Samuel
Higgins, Frank
Hinch, William Sproule
Hinds, Herman Jacob

352
Hindsberger, Jacob
Hixson, Joseph Foster
Hoffman, Allen F.
Hogue, Lassen Elwin
Hogue, Samuel Larsen
Holland, William Bismark
Hollenbeck, James H.
Homan, Frank Andrew
Hopkins, Ethan Littler
Hughes, Thomas Edwin
Hutchinson, Charles Caswell
Inns, Ernest Frank
Jackson, Andrew
Johnson, George L.
· Johnson, Rasmus Bartholin
Johnson, Samuel Walter
Johnson, William Mallory
Johnston, Harry Mumford
Jones, George Wallace
Jones, Oscar Knox
Jenkins, Alex.
Kerney, Aden G.
Kerney, Charles H.
Kirk, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Kittrell, William Joseph
Kohler, George Mathias
Kreider, Joseph Charles
Lang, James Albert
Lane, William Samuel, P. M.
Laning, Frank
Lee, Frederic Morgan
Levy, Herbert
Levy, Herman, P. M.
Levy, Nyman
Longacre, John Richard
Lowe, Camille Danton
Luril!, Harrie
Lynch, Thomas Halpin ·
Lynch, William
Lynn, Theo. Ayers
Machen, William Wallace
Mackinnon, Arthur Ward
Madsen, Theo.
Manheim, Emil Edward
Manuel, Louis

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Marks, Christopher D.
Marks, George
Marshall, Hampton Othello
Marshall, Warren Carey
Martin, Samuel
Mattingly, John Andrew, P. M.
Maupin, James Laurence
Maupin, William Thomas
May, Francis John
May, Richard Elwyn
McClurg, James A., Sr.
McDonald, James Bruce
Mcindoo, Ivan Carter
McKinnon, Albert Dwight
McLane, Charles Lowry, P. M.
Mellon, Thomas Eugene
Metzler, Brenton Jarvis
Miller, Charles Herman
Monroe, George Hays, P. M.
Morris, Henry
Muldary, Richard Morgan
Mulholland, Robert Smith
Munn, Charles Anderson
Murray, John William
Musselman, Albert E.
Myer, Isaac
Neal, John
Neal, John Wesley
Nelson, Louis
North, John Wilson
Olney, Albert Downing
Olney, Clyde Albert
Olufs, Oluf Bernhard
O'Neal, Charles
Palmer, Arthur Henry Gordon
Pasch, Robert
Patch, George
Payne, Le Roy
Peachman, Ferdinand
Peterson, Christian
Peterson, Nathaniel Houston
Peterson, William Harrison
Pike, Willis
Pollard, Oliver Lee
Porter, W. F.

353

Powell, A. L.
Sprouse, Jasper Newton
Prince, Thomas Bi:own
Stephens, Lewis Oliver, P. M.
Pugh, John M., P. M.
Stone, Benjamin Franklin
Puleston, William Henry
Stuart, Richard I., P. M.
Pulliam, Charles Irwin
Swartz, Alex. Culbertson
Radin, Henry
Swearingen, Barney
Radley, Thomas Henry
Sweeney, Albert Hamlet
Ralston, Rupert· Robert
Taylor, George Colvin
Taylor, James
Redden, Silas Henry
Rehom, Frank
Taylor, Paul Chester
Reno, Frederick Rensalaer
T·e geler, Frederick William
Rhodes, Johnson Guy
Teller, Orlando Prentiss ·
Richardson, Charles H.
Thomas, Montgomery
Riege, Charles Henry
Thompson, Oliver McGrady
Robbi David Harry
Thorwaldson, Horace
Robin.'son, William Harrison Jackson Tinnin, Wiley James, :P. G. M.
Roessler Frederic Martin
Tombs, Samuel Bell, P. M.
Rudy Henry Vernon
Trowbridge, Dwight Howe
Sahm' Henry
Tunzi, Norberto
Sameison, Samuel Joseph
Turner, George Washi.ngton
Samuel Lawrence
Urban, Charles Francis
Beadle; James
Valentine, Edward Sharpe, P. M.
Selling,' Christian Hansen
Vanderlip, Frederic Douglas
Sewell Walter John
Van Meter, Edgar Snowden
Shave; Charles Binn
Vorce, Oliver Allen
Sherm~n, Walter Nathan
Wade, Lincoln
Shields, Adolphus James
.Walker, Ben Randal
Shoemaker, Walter
Walker, John Robert
Shoobert Charles Warren S.
Warner, Albert Owen
Short Tuank Hamilton
Warrington, Thomas Henry
Simp~on, Timothy William
Watkins, Joseph Spinning
Sloane, William Burtis
Webster, James Alfred
Smith Anson Burlingame, P. M.
Wells, George John
Smith: Ardie Lee
Whepley, William Lang
Smith, Christine Hansen
White, John James
Smith, Eugene Robinette
White, John Wesley
Smith George Washington
Whitney, Walter
Smith: Joseph Manooh, P. M.
Whitney, William Jo~l
Smith, Samuel Nathaniel
Willis, Glenn Trowbndge
Smith, Victor R.a ymond
Woodward, Oscar J.
Snow Alva Edson
Wrightson, John Mowell
Spiv:y, Willia.m Anderson
Zener, Steven Olin
~288

23

35i

ROSTER.

*Blivin, Harol'd Curtis
Chaddock, Emory Gilbert
Hald, Jens Hansen

ROSTER.

WITHDRAWN:
Lohman, Herman Joseph
Strother, John Pryor
Morris, Charles
Welch, George

Lauer, Arthur
Morgan, Charles Poe
Ogle; Elvin Fulton
Oliver, Charles Martin
Owens, John Franklin
Pepperdine, Silas Washington
Rachford, John Charles, P. M.
Raker, John Edward

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Heiskell, William King
Williams, Alonzo C~
Keating, James Thomas
Wise, Lee Clinton
EXPELLED:
Dwyer, George Michael
Ferguson, John William
Hedges, Henry Phillip

•

Laird, James Todd

355

Russill, Richard Madison
Salisbury, William A., F. M.
Smith, Albert Augustus
Smith, Chandlar Holton
Spargur, Charles Goodwin
Spicer, Albert Fulmer
Wood, John
-43

DIED:
Moberg, August
Pierce, John Milton

DIED:
Holden, George Samuel
Williamson, Charli;s

ADIN LODGE, No.

250.

ALTURAS LODGE, No. 248.

Adin, Modoc County.

Alturas, Modoc. County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or n~xt preceding Full .Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Richard Biddle Clark, Master,
John Lassen Davis, .Senior Deacon,
Ezra Morton Wilson, Sen. Warden, Eisley Wiman Groves, Jun. Deacon,
Arthur Mathias Traugh, Jun. War., George Roseberry Walker, Marshal,
Geo. Horace Knight, Treasurer,
Morris Blaske, Steward,
Chas. Mathias Tinsman, Secretary, Edwin Stanton Pickard, Steward,
Buffington Albert Chase, Tyler.

Chas. Sherman Baldwin, Master,
Thorn Hill Ballard, Senior Deacon,
Thos. Lawrence Denson, Sen. War., Luther Grant McDowell, Jun. Dea.,
John Edward Raker, Junior War., Wm. Evans Armstrong, Marshal,
Ernest _Chappell Bonner, Treasurer, Marx Lauer, Steward,
Isaac Lauer, Secretary,
Silas Wash. Pepperdine, Steward,
George Allen Duke, Chaplain,
Alfred Gagnon, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Armstrong, William Evans, P. M.
Clark, Luther Goddard
Baldwin, Charles Sherman
Connon, John Peyton
Ballard, Charles Arthur, P. M.
Coppedge, Walter Edwin
Ballard, James Thornhill
Davis, Madison
Ballard, Simeon Theo., P. M.
Denson, Thomas Lawrence
Ballard, Thorn Hill
Duke, Geo. A.
Baty, Samuel E.
Fleming, Henry Albert
Bayley, Adin Spooner
Gagnon, Alfred
Bayley, Simeon Stovall
Gausted, Rasmus Oliver
Bonner, Ernest Chappell, P. M.
Huffman, Fred Harmon
Bonner, John Todd, P. M.
King, Albert A vis
Brasher, Robert Williams
Lauer, Benjamin
Bush, Elmer Ellsworth
Lauer, Isaac
Caddel, Elijah Daniel
Lauer, Marx
• Degrees conferred during the year.

•

MEMBERS:
Braden, Lincoln
McArthur, Scott
Bradshaw, Arthur Franklin, P. M.
Packwood, Warren Dale, P. M.
Blaske, Morris
Parish, Frank Pierce
Brown, Clyde Earl
Pickard, Edwin Stanton, P. M.
Clark, Richard Biddle, P. M.
Preston, Edmund Benjamin
Davis, John Lassen
Rice, Thomas Jefferson
Ford, Emery Walter
Squire, Andrew Jackson
Fniits, John Sebastian, P. M.
Squire, Andrew Jackson, Sr.
Tinsman, Charles Mathias
Geisendorfer, Henry Albert
Groves, Eisley Wiman
Tocher, William
Grubbs, Elisha Parker, P. M.
Traugh, Arthur Mathias, P. M.
Traugh, Lemuel George
Harrell, James Porter Grove
Walker, George Roseberry
Holl, James Hartwell
Wilson, Ezra Morton
Kesselring, Francis M.
Wilson, Thomas Walter
Knight, George Horace, P. M.
-31
Lorenzen, Peter

356

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

WITHDRAWN:
Drennan, Alexander

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sheppard, Summerfield Deu

Groves, Jerome Charles
Rice, Charles William

DIED:
Rice, George Freeland H.
Sailing, Richard

357

.'

SUSPENDED FOR NON PAYMENT OF DUES:
Mitchell, Hamilton George
Sparks, Joseph John
Wood, Francis Farlin

LANDMARK LODGE, No. 253.
BODIE LODGE, No. 252.

•

Madison, Yolo Co~ty.

Bodie, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
OFFICERS:

John Kennedy, Master,
John Geo. Fredericks, Sen. Deacon,
Ernest Christian Baur, Sen. War., Wm. Everett Grim, Jun. Deacon,
John Lucas Stephens, Juts. Warden, Geo. Rogers Hurlbut, Marshal,
James C. Gose, Treasurer,
Edward H . Archer, Steward,
Francis M. Strickland, Secretary,
Henry B. Johnson, Steward,
George Tandy, Tyler.

Harvey Hayden Boone, Master,
\Vm. Jordan Crawford, Sen. Deacon,
William H. Thompson, Sen. War., Frank Edmund Quinville, Jun. Dea.,
Gregory Morandi, Junior Warden, Cecil Bertrand Burkham, Marshal,
James Stuart Cl\in, Treasurer,
Geo. McLellan Reading, Steward,
William McKinlay, Jr., Secretary, Franklin M. Randolph, Steward,
William Turley, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
McAlpin, John
Bell, Fred A.
McCaghran, Hugh, P. M.
Blanchard, Henry Clay
McKenzie, John Johnson
Boone, Harvey Hayden, P. M.
McKinlay, William, Jr.
Boyd, Nathaniel W., P. M.
Burkham, Cecil Bertrand
Morandi, Gregory
Nelson, Hugh Wellington
Cain, James Stuart
Parr, Edward William
Conger, Peter B.
Parr, John Forest
Crawford, William Jordan, P. M.
Davidson, Hugh Robinson
Pierce, Richard Thomas
Pryor, John
Davis, Thomas Lewellyn
Quinville, Frank Edmund, P. M.
Fitzpatrick, George Kenny, P. M.
Graham, Archie
Reading, George McLellan
Reading, William Francis
Hawks, James Augustus
Schweiger, Francis Paul
Heath, Warwick Ptomy
Smith, Francis ll<larian, P. M.
Hull, Jesse Cunningham
Jeffery, John
Stanley, Thomas Donald
Thompson, William Henry
Kelly, John Nelson
Turley, William
Leale, Richard Andrew
Weitfle, Joseph King
-38
Langrell, Joseph Mitchell

•

MEMBERS:
Hurlbut, George Rogers, P. M.
Johnson, Henry Boneparte
Kennedy, John, P. M.
L evy, Ellis Louis
Levy, Wolf
Needham, Guy Parks
Nieman, Robert Lee
Pfannsteihl, Luis
Scoggins, Clarence Noah
Scott, Arthur
Silberstein, Charles A. A.
Stephens, John Lucas
Strickland, Francis Marion, P. M.
Tandy, George
Tandy, George Washington
Tutt, John Samuel, P. M.
-33

Archer, Edward Hutton
Baur, Ernest Christian
Carbin, Newell
Craig, John Milton
Craig, Thornton
Cole, Francis
Davisson, Benj. Franklin, Jr.
Davisson, Benj. Franklin, Sr.
Fredericks, John George, P. M.
Galvin, Harry Albert
Galvin, Henry
Grim, William Everett
Gose, James .C hristopher
Grey, William Joseph
Haines, Henry
Hall, Thomas, P . M.
Hayes, William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Shulte, Henry Francis
Blan·d, James Milton

358

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

:McCarty, John LaFayette
Merrill, Abbott
:Mitchell, :Marshall Alexander
:Moody, He;bert Lyle
Newton, Orrin Lathrop
Niedecker, Charles Edward
Nordyke, Byron Abram, P. M.
Nordyke, Felix Lyeancler
Nourse, Charles Freeman
Orr, John Brown
Pehrson, Alfred Ferdinand
Plymh'e, Fred A.
Ponder, Wilson Churchill
Primm, Franklin Pierce, P. M.
Randall, Charles Alfred
Rathbun, Donaldson W.
Reading, Robert Lee
Reid, Daniel Gerrard
Reynolds, John Edward
Reynolds, Thomae Benjamin
Rhom, J. Thornton
Rote, James Albert
Rountree, Walter Benjamin
Saeltzer, Dudley Victor
Saeltzer, Rudolph Andrews
Saeltzer, Rudolph Moritz
Sanders, Edward
Sandholdt, John Peter
Sandry, Samuel

READING LODGE, No. 254..
Redding, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wilson Churchill Ponder,· Master,
Henry Gladstone Hill, Sen. War.,
Charles Zwiebel, J uflior Warden,
Arthur Mason Dean, Treasurer,
John Richard Lowdon, Secretary,
George Wm. Bush, Chaplain,

John Witherow~' Senior Deacon
Charles F. Thompson, Junior Dea.,
William Oro Blodgett, Marshal,
Walter Allen Kite, Steward,
William Jeffrey, Steward,
James Albert Rote, Tyler,

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Harrison
Fillman, Samuel Phillip
Ashcraft, Aldis Isaac, P. M.
Fisher, Fabian
• Garvin, Robert Jackson
Bailey, Edward Langdon, P. M.
Bainbridge, Eugene Blackbu.rn
Glaszer, Peter
Bedford, Homer Peter
Hampton, Delane Wash.
Blodgett, William Ora, P. M.
Hampton, Floyd Young
Brackins, Samuel Elbert
Hansen, James Dudley
Breslauer, Louis
Hill, Henry Gladstone
Houston, Thomas James
Brown, Henry Warren
Brown, Robert Anthony
Hunter, Joseph Hammond
Bush, Chauncey Carroll, P. M.
Herron, Matthew Wilkes
Bush, George William, P. M.
Hudson, William Atherton
Campbell, William Mott, P. M.
Hoyle, James Hansen
Carson, George Campbell
Hurst, August
Collins, Richard Emmet
Jacobson, Charles
Comstock, James Warren
Jeffrey, William
Corbiere, Charles Colfax, P. M.
Jewett, George Parish
Dean, Arthur Mason, P. M.
Johnson, Israel Joseph, P. M.
Dean, George Edward
.Tones, John Rees
DeLashmutt, George Wiley
Kaveney, John
Dennis, Leslie Mosley
Kite, Walter Allen
Depue, Carl Harmon
Lambson, Giles Hammon
Dittmar, Carl Frederick
Lawry, Olin Joseph
Do browsky, Frank Reed
Ledgerwood, LeRoy
Donley, Charles Edwin
Lefebore, J oeeph J alma
Donley, William Albert
Lowdon, George Brownlee
Downing, Isaac Hayden
Lowdon, John Richard, P. M.
Dozier, Ernest
Marshall,· Amos Hira~
Dustin, Fred Fay
Maxwell, Fred Brooks
Eaton, James Parley
McNabb, William
Edge, George
McCall, John Applegate

••

.

Schoonover, Jamee William
Sechrist, George Howard, P. M.
Seed, Alfred
Smith, Thomas Burton, P. M.
Smithson, James Stenton
Southern, Elzy Thomae
Souza, Antonio Furtado, Jr.
Stable, Ferdinand
Stone, Sidney Marvin
Swasey, Frank Marshall, P. M.
Swedburg, Eric
Sweeney, Frank Thomas
Tucker, Arthur Henry
Tillotson, Willard Denton
Thomas, Morgan Davis
Thompson, Charles Francie
T_hompson, Harry Herman
Todd, Elmer E.
Van Valer, Claude Oscar
Walker, Albert Edward
Watson, Eugene Sullivan
White, Sherman Tecumseh
Wilder, Charles Thornton
Williams, William Wallace
.
Wilson, Alva A.
Witherow, John
Woll, Joseph
Wood, William Augustus
Zwiebel, Charles
-120

WITHDRAWN:
Durfee, Ulysses Grant
DIED:
Schiller, George Henry

•

•

359

360

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Shaffrath, Max
Shore, Gilbert Edward, P. M.
Seigfried, John Henry, P . M.
Sweetland, Byron Kear
Taylor, Noah Daniel
Tobin, John Coffin
Vincent, Ferdinand M.
Walker, Frank Jacob

WELCOME LODGE, No. 255.
Lemoore, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon. ·
OFFICERS:
Willard Ernest Dingley, Master,
Willard Merrill Wilson, Sen. DeacoJS,
John Henry McGlashan, Sen. War., Dudley R. Blanchard, Jun. DeacoJS,
John Henry Heidorn, Jun. WardeJS, John Henry Siegfried, Marshal.
Gilbert Edward Shore, Treasurer,
John Jefferson Odale, Steward,
Julius H. Fox, Secretary,
William Tupper Dickie, Steward,
Byron Kear Sweetland, Chaplain,
John Benton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Benton, John
Heidorn, John Henry
Berry, George
Jennings, Frederick
Berry, Napoleon
Kellar, Charles William
Blakely, Charles Roy
Knapp, Adolphus Eugene
Blanchard, Dudley R.
Kreyenhagen, Emile
Bloyd, William Washington
Kurtz, John Leopold
Brothers, George Alex. J. F., P. :M. Lane, Oliver Perry
Brown, Charles Albert
Latham, Charles
Buchanan, William Fletcher
Livermore, John Wilson
Buckner, Andrew Brown
Marlow, William
Buckner, William Rollo
Marriott, Joseph
Carter, Marcus O., P: M.
McCrady, W. Winter, P. M.
Clark, Josiah Brown
McCormack, James A.
Coffiriberry, Corbin Camden
McDonald, Alex. Roderick
Cross, Roy Marion
McGlashan, Alexander
Denton, James William
McGlashan, John Henry
Dickie, William Tupper
McLaughlin, Stiles Ambrose
Dingley, Frank Everet
Merrill, Walter
Dingley, Willard Ernest
Momson, Henry
Evans, Asa Jay
Morton, Lee Weed
Evans, Harry Ward
Murphy, Richard Augustine
Elsworth, Elmer Ellsworth
Nidiffer, David Perkins
Euing, Claud Lee
Odale, John Jefferson
Finn, Raymond Sylvester
Pratt, Leonard Hope
Foley, Robert Emmet, P. :M.
Richmond, James Morgan
Fox, Julius Henderson, P. M.
Ritchie, William Rufus
Gaunt, Elmer Boon
Sanborn, Leavitt Riley
Gilroy, Launcelott
Sanborn, William Horace, P. M.
Gorden, George
Schwartz, Gotlob
Hays, William Price
Seavers, Henry L.

'

361

Weems, Harry Leroy
Williams, Joel Wilson
Williams, John W.
Wilson, John W.
Wilson, Willard Merrill
Woodgates, Harry Vacher, P. :M.
Young, Samuel
-75

WITHDRAWN:
Kinney, Charles Louis
Boyce, Wilfred Harry
Porter; Sylvester D.
Charlesworth, Benj. Wm.
Price, James Henry
•Garrigan, William Henry
Richmond, Henry Stuart
Gormley, Ulysses Sheridan
Sanderson, Chas. Nelson
Greer, Wm. Alison
Shore, Richard Ed.·
Hendrickson, John McE.
Townsend Eli S.
Hinkle, Geo. Wash.
*Trumbull, Louis Thomas
Kerr, Henry Clinton
Web"!>, John Hinckley

...

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Drummond, James Alex. W.
Bovard, Phummer H.
Wilson, Thomas B.
SUSPENDED FOR UNMASONIC CONDUCT:
Atkisson, John Marshal
DIED:
Stratton, Geo. Draper

Smith, Guss

LODI LODGE. NO. 256.
Lodi, San Joaquin County.
Stated :Meetings, Thursday of or next precedin~ Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

I•

William Jacob Thomayer, Master, Frank Albert Henning, Sen. Deacon,
Ambus Ozro Eooleman, Sen. War., John Silas Montgomery, Jun. Dea.,
John Fred'k Blakely, Jun. Warden, George Andrew Keagle, Marshal,
John Millard Blodgett, Treasurer, Chester B. Welch, Steward,
Edgar Henry Popi, Steward,
Hilliard Elihu Welch, Secretary,
Calvin Allen Bright, Tyler.
Charles Roses Dustin, Chaplain,
•Degrees conferred during the year.

362

MEMBERS:
Allllll, WilbuT Sabin
Gum, Adelbert Keller
Axtell, Sam Beach
Hageman, Charles
Barbour, Nathan Roswell, P. M.
Hale, Frank Orlando
Bauer, Adolph, P. M.
Hale, John Ralodine
Beckman, Henry Christopher
Harrie, Samuel Milton
Bewley, John Clinton
Hawkins, Divine Zachariah
Blaisdell, Charles Edward
Heil, Henry
Blakely, John Frederick
Henning, Frank Albert
Blodgett, John Millard, P. M.
High, James Hamlin
Blodgett, Walter Scott
Hines, Lloyd B.
Bright, Calvin Allen
Hogan, Eugene Sue
Brown, William Clifford
Hogan, George
Bryant, James Rea
Hopkins, James E=et
Buchard, Edward Adelbert, P. M.
Jackson, Bernard
Buchman, George William
Keagle, George Andrew, P. M.
Buck, Charles Henry
Kettelman, David
Cary, Edward Colfax
LeMoin, George Worley, P. M.
Cary, Fred Grant
Lillie, Charles Franklin
Chrisman, Frank
Lillie, John Harry
Churchman, Benjamin Conway
Magee, Stillman Look
Clark, Harvey Smith
Martin, Robert William, P. M.
Clark, William Sibley
Mason, Louie T.
Clements, John Henry
McClellan, William Cyril
Cogswell, Nathaniel Merrill
McClure, Richard Burton
Colman, Frederick William
McKenzie, Hugh Alexander
Corson, Charles Hartwell, P. M.
Montgomery, John Silas
Craig, Howard Miller
Morse, Edmund Elliott
DelValle, Jacob
Mowly, Sherman Wesley
DelValle,' Joseph
Nelson, Svend Christian
Dickey, Hugh Leavitt
Newfield, Marcus
Dustin, Charles Roses
Norton, Charles Willis, P. M.
Eaton, Edgar Jay
Norton, Oscar Orlando
Elder, Isaac Arthur
Pearson, Benjamin Franklin
Eooleman, Ambus Ozro
Popi, Edgar Henry
Ferdun, Charles Marshman, P. M.
Poppe, Frank
Ferguson, John -Charlesworth
Rothwell, John Henry
Foster, George Albert
Sanborn, Horatio Wallace, P. M.
Friedberger, Alex. Valentine, P. M. Sehu, Robert Alexander
Friedberger, Joseph
Segsworth, Frederick
Friedberger, Leo
Seigel, William Frederick
Froehunt, Max John
Smith, Horace Manning
Galloway, John H.
Sollars, Charles
Garretson, George R.
Spooner, William Alden, P. M.
Grosshauser, Frank
Springer, William Andrew

3ts3

ROSTER.

ROST EB.

•

•

Welch, Chester Be.seaue
Welch, Edwin Forest
Welch, Hilliard Elihu, P. M.
W estfe.11, Eugene M.
Westlake, William Nelson
White, CoTWin Douglas
Whittaker, Marion Wm.
Wooten, Joseph Bivens
Wright, Edgar B.
Zimmerman, Sam Herman

Stannard, Henry Bert
Steam, Edwin George
Sterling, John Calhoun
Stub, George Martin
Stuckey, Ora Ottuwa
Thomayer, William Jacob
Thompson, Wilson Henry
Tindell, Pleasant Hay, P. M.
Villinger, Charles Lucian
weiblen, Frank
Weinut, Albert John

-109

DIED:
Shaver, Charles Martin

PENRHYN LODGE, No. 258.
Penryn, Placer County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Geo\"ge Carl Boller, Senior Deacon,
Elmer Gordon Crafts, Junior Dea.,
Charles Carlson, Marshal,
•
Owen Rowland Owens, Ste'l.CJa.rd,
Porter Lee Taylor, Steward,
Harry Leonard Taylor, Tyler.

Robert Kayo, Master,
Frank E. Small, Senior Warden,
Antone Fereva, Junior Warden,
Robert Wm. Roberts, Treasurer,
Newton Glascoe Spratt, Secretary,
'Williar' Archibald, Chaplain,

Archibald, Edward
Archibald, William
Boggs, John Gove
Boller, George Carl, P. M.
Boller, Warren Bigforth
Brainard, Charles G.
Brooke, Wm. Ansil, P. M.
Butler, Harry Everett
Carlson, Charles
Crafts, Elmer Gorden
Day, Samuel Chester
Eckhardt, Albert Dostel
Eckhardt Earnest Frank
Fereva, Antone
Files, John William

MEMBERS :
Fippins, William Wheeler
Ford, Robert Wharton
Freed, Clark Verian
Howell, Hayry Burton
Hughes, David Griffith
Katzenstein, Edmund
Kayo, Robert, P. M.
Laird, Samuel Clark
Linninger, Wm. ETVin, P. M.
Logan, Robert Adelbert
Lovl(rs, Clifton Gilman
Manley, John Moreley Everett
Martin, Charles, P. )r,
Mason, Frederick Julian
Misley, Thomas Brazil

ROSTER.
Miles, Frederick Charles, P. M.
Owen, David Robert
Owens, Owen Roland
Pendleton, George Hamilton
Phillips, James P. Medland, P. M.
Rackliffe, Pitt Bartlett
Roberts, Robert William, P. M.
Roberts, David Allan
Schmitt, John Jacob
Scroggs, Chester Alexander
Shepherd, Benjamin Walker
Small, Frank Elwin

Smith, Arthur Edward Hughes
Smith, Mortimer Leggett
Spratt, Newton Glascoe
Taylor, Harry Leonard
Taylor, Howard Buford
Taylor, Porter Lee
Torrence, Charles .
Turner, Frederick William
Wallace, John
Worth, Elmer Jason
Wilder, Abbott Pierson
-53

EVERGREEN LODGE, No. 259.
Riverside, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Henry Dearborn French, Master,
John Harvey Ellis, S en. Deacon,
C. Bowdoin Bayley, Sen. Warden, John Green Bayley, Junior Deacon,
James Earl Drayton, Jun. Wardin, John T. Jarvis, Marshal,
Menno S. Bowman, Treasurer
Leonard Albert Cowles, Steward,
R~bert Preston Cundiff, Secre:ary, James Percy Robeson, Steward,
Edward Holton Webb, Chaplain,
William Edward Hibble, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Alguire, Myron
Boalich, Edwin A.
Alguire, Urban
Boggs, Augustus' Wash.
Allen, Benjamin Franklin
Bonham, John
Allrem, Ralph Loyd
Bowman, Menno S., P. M.
Anderson, Wm. Austin, P. M.
Boyd, J. Calvin
Arbaugh, Daniel
Boyd, Joseph Warren
Atwood, Charles Goodrich, P . M.
Boyer, Lewis Alexander
Babcock, J. W.
Bray, William Frederick, P. M.
Barker, Charles Owen
Brownscomb, Thomas Fairchild
Barnes, Lucius B., P. M.
Brown, Alva Thurlow
Bayley, Charles Bowdoin
Brown, Lyman VanWinkle
Bayley, John G.
Brock, William Ernest
Beamer, Jacob Eden
Brundige, Louis A.
Benton, Herbert Elmon
Buchler, Richard M.
Binney, Joshua.
Buckley, Henry Demetrius
Bittinger, George E.
:Burgess, Clayson Sylvester
Bloom, Samuel Monroe
Burnham, Daniel Heath

ROSTER.

•

Caldwell, Albert Augustine
Campbell, Albert Park
Campbell, Donald Wm.
Carr, William Wallace
Castleman, John Saxton ·
Castleman, Pember Stearns
Castleman, Stanley Joseph, P. M.
Chamblin, Wilber Newton, P. M.
Chase, J. Warren
Clancy, William Bernard, P. M.
Clark, Arthur B.
Clark, Walter David
COrnwell, Jos. Wm.
Coulter, Frederick Porter
Cowles, Leanord Albert
Cox, John Henry Dutcher
·cox, William Emery, P. M.
Cundiff, Robert Preston
Cunningham, Geo. Dimock, P. M.
Cuthbertson, James
Cuttle, Francis
Dale, George Hathaway
Daniels, Milton J.
Darling, Lorenzo Franklin, P. M.
Davis, Frank Clark
Davis, George Robert
Delano, Francis Junius
Dickson, Charles Sanford
Dowler, William Ross
Drayton, James Earl
Dunbar, Frederick Martin
Dunlap, Horace G.
Ellis, A. Ellsworth
Ellis, John Harvey
Estudillo, Miguel
Euderley, Frederick W.
Fairchild, Thomas
Filkins, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Fish, John Wallace
Flagg, James Alfred
Freeman, Frank Wright
Freeman, Isaac Newton
French, Henry Dearborn, P. M . .
Gage, William Judson
Gamble, Austin Abraham

•

Gates, DeRoy Harkness
Gill, Lafayette
Gilliland, Hosea Franklin
Gray, Charles R.
Gray, Howard P.
Griffith, Thomas R.
Gunderson, Halvor.
Gonsolus, Philip Andrew
Hall, Priestly
Hamilton, Charles DeC.
Hamilton, Ernest G.
Hamilton, Ralph Alexander
Hammond, Harry Walter, P. M.
Hancock, Claude Perceval
Harger, K. D.
Hathaway, Walter Scott
Hawes, Norman Sunderland
Hayt, William Augustus
Heath, Frederick Miller
Hebert, Charles Prescott
Hedger, Leonard Weyman
Hellmer, William Zeaman
Herkelrath, Frank
Hewett, Theodore Dwight
Hibble, William Edward
Hinckley, Samuel Bond, P. M.
Holland, Joseph Howard
~olt, Amos Kendall
Horton, Abraham Anderson
Horton, Joseph Robert
Hotchkiss, Stephen Stearns
Hull, John Wyatt
Humphreys, John Fletcher
Hungate, James De Pausen
Huse, Curtis Ferdinand
Jackson, Lewis Edward
Jarvis, John T., P. M.
Jarvis, Joseph
Jenkins, Robert Theo.
Johnson, Eugene Christian
Johnson, Wm. Arthur
Keith, Walter Elmer, P. M.
Kelsey, George Hyde, P. M.
Kightlinger, Elmer Ellsworth
Kimbell, Lewis

36.5

~tif\

Kjellburg, Gunner
Klinefelter, Peter K.
Knight, Lewis A.
Lamar, Richard David
Leighton, Hampton Wild
Lewis, Arlington Cyrus
Lightner, Felix
Longfellow, Byro~ Melnot, P. M.
Lowell, George Willard
Martin, Achilles
Mason, Dwight Bisco
Maynard, Horton Dunbar
McBain, Daniel
McClure, Daniel Rishler
McDougall, ,James ·
McEhinney, Robert T.
McFarland, Chauncey Loth
McKenney, Jonathan W.
Merrill, Charles Henry
Miller, Andrew William
Miller, Wm. Burritt
Milliken, Peter, P. M.
Mitchell, David G.
Morrison, Francis Templeton
Moulton, Ernest Smith
Moorman, Orange L.
Newman, Gustavus Olivio
Newman, Lewis Henry
North, John Greenleaf
Noyse, Frank Albert
Ocheltree, Arthur Robinson
Paddock, Job Albert
Palmer, Oscar Jacob
Papineau, Ottley
Parker, Ashley Stephens, P . M.
Parkhurst, John
Pearson, George Mitchner
Peter, Frederick
Phelps, William Wykes
Phillippi, Edward J.
Piddington, Alfred Alexander
Pontius, David Willard
Purington, William Ansel
Putnam, Nathan T.
Kirkendall, James Leonidas

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Rayner, Edward
Reynolds, George N ee-01
Rice, Almer L.
Rice, Charles Thomas
Riddle, George
Rimell, Philip Geo.
Robeson, JaBt Percy
Robertson, Robert P.
Robinson, William Henry
Roblee, Wm. Wallace
Rockhold, John Ellsworth
Roles, C. Grant
Rouse, Gaylor
Russell, Wilson Byron, P. M.
Russell, Zadoc
Samuelson, William
-Sanborn, Kingsbury, P. M.
Sanker, Sylvester
Schwab, Peter
Seburn, Thaddeus K.
Shiels, Charles Montgomery
Skinner, George Mortimer, P. M.
Small, Henry Kimball
Stone, Philip Casper
Stower, Alex. Campbell
Taylor, Zachary A.
Thayer, George Richarcl
Tracy, Thomas
Tucker, Edwin Waite
Tuell, B. Jefferson
Twogood, Milo Judson
Van Fleet, Mayne L.
Vermason, Cornelius
Vosburgh, Charles H.
Vredenburgh, John R.
Waddingham, Edward Francis
Waite, Charles Edgar
Wallace, Thomas Clarence
Ward, Chas. Henry
Ward, George Franklin
Warren, Geo. Randall
Way, Ellsworth Henry
Webb, Edward D. Hatton, P. M.
Weinpress, Chas. Henry
White, Samuel Adams

•

Whitney, Jno. Samuel L.
Widamau, Oliver P.
Wilires, Samuel Morrison
Wilson, Frank Pierce
Witherspoon, Isaac Alex.

367

Wothley, Frederick Almon
Young, Cornelius
Young, John Torrance
Younkin, Albert
-223
WITHDRAWN:

Andrus, Elmer Chas.
Dennis, Geo. Chas.
Miller, Herman D.

Moore, Chas. G.
Noyes, Joseph Sibiey.
Rogers, John
Thomas, Roy Chas.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Shaw, Rupert

Baker, Judah Sears

Hays, Howard Thomas
McKennon, Theopholis A.
Sickelsmith, Fuller D.

DIED:
Taylor, Benjamin S.
Tibbals, Barnabas
Wildes, Franklin A.

KING SOLOMON'S LODGE, No.

260.

San Francisco, San Francisco Collilty.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Ira Sedley Hobbs, Master,
Edward Elmer Conn, Senior Deacon,
Randolph V. Whiting, S en. Warden, Frank Paul Simmen, Junior Deacon,
Edward Anton Janssen, Jun. War., John Harold Murch, Marsha!,
Wm. Parker Filmer, Treasurer,
HermannWm. Noethig, Steward,
Harry Baehr, Secretary,
Frank Allston Swai~, Steward,
Hiram French Wright, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ahlborn, Henry
Ascher, Henry Dietrich
Asher, Maurice Louis
Ahlers, Henry C.
Aitken; George Joseph
Auld, Ernest Christian
Alexander, Archibald Mcintosh,
Aust, Frank William
Austin, Arthur Thomas Craxford
Alexander, Harry
Ayers, Clarence Warwick
Alexander, William Frederick
·Altvater, Edward Louis
Ayers, Herman Charles
Ayers, John Clarkson
Ambrose, Frank Murray
Ayers, Lyttleton Fennimore
Anderson, Julius
Bacon, Gaston Ernest, P. M.
Armbrust, Adolph Charles
Bader, Henry
Armstrong, James William

•

368
Baehr, Harry
Banks, William Edward
Barclay, Alei:. James
Bartlett, Walter Jason Robert
Batkin, Alfred Augustus
Baum, Simon
Beall, Samuel Josiah
Beanston, Peter
Bell, Arthur Reginald
Bell, Charles Henry
Belser, Julius Henry
Beretta, Caesar Louis
Berson, Maurice Adolph
Bertrand, Frederic Joseph
I}ethell, Thomas -Waldron
Blade, Arthur Macdonald, P. M.
Blakely, Joseph Henry
Block, Archibald Ira
Boardman, Wilbur Fisk
Bolte, Carl Noble
Bone, John Christopher
Bonney, Charles Sumner
Bottomley, Liberty Halstead
Bowers, Charles Silvey
Boyan, Charles Max
Bradley, John Joseph
Broad, Alfred Fry
Brobeck, William Irvin
Brown, John Fred
Brown, Richard
Browne, Allan Henry
Browne, John Lawrence
Browne, Thomas Henry
Bucher, Charles Columban
Buescher, Arthur Gustave
Buetow, Frederick Wm. Carl
Bunnell, Edwin
Burden, Frederic Alex.
Burich, George
Burnley, Alfred
Carpenter, John Lewis
Chapin, Frank Eugene
Chevalier, Edward Victor
Childs, Bolton Gardner
Christman, George

ROSTER.
Cleve, Clarence Taylor, P. M.
Cluness, William Ross, Jr.
Cohn, Max Meyer
Cole, William Lake
Colton, Alric Oswy
Conn, Edw!!-rd Elmer
Connolly, William Michael
Cook, Abijah Catlin
Cook, J ease Brown
Cordell, Edward Charles
Cords, David Andrew
Cords, William G.
CurliBB, Edward Mitchel
Cox, Alex. Middleton
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel
Cranston, John
Creswell, Harry Thornton
Cross, Charles Vernon
Crough, John Arthur
Curran, Daniel Joseph
Curry, Charles Forrest
Danforth, Edwin, P. M.
Darms, .J ohn Livingstone
Daverkosen, Frank Edward
Davidson, Louis Naphthaly, P. M.
Davies, William Henry
Davis, George Mabery, P. M.
Davis, Griffith
Davis, Henry H.
Dawson, George Charles, P. M.
Dean, Robert Armstrong
Dean, Stephen John
Deckelman, Hiram Abiff
LeLuca, Gesualdo
Denhard, Otto Ernest
Depew, Charles Milton
Detjen, Henry Louis
deWit, Henry Albert
De Young, Michel Henry
Dibble, Oliver
Dickhoff, Bernard Seligman
Dickson, Edward Augustus
Dixon, Samuel Wash.
Doane, George Alfred
Dobbin, Hamilton Henry

ROSTER.

•

Dodge, Henry Wash.
Dolman, Percival
Donlon, Thomas Arthur
Doose, John Christian
Dore, Emile
· Downey, George Wright
Dreher, Frederick Louis
Drinkhouse, Frederick Rosenbaum
Drucker, George Ihmer
Duke, Thomas Samuel
Dunlevy, Chas. Ed. Sheridan
Dunn, Albert Wheelock
Dunne, James Patrick
Edwards, Edward
Egan, Edward Matthew
Eichorn, Julius Anthony
Eisert, Henry William
Elliot, Charles Melville
Elliott, Charles Cornelius
Ellis, John Craw
Emanuel, S8J11uel
England, William Albert
Ernst, Thomas
Eubanks, James Clarence
Eva, James Martyn
Eva Samuel James
Falk, Adrian Joseph
Fannin, James Henry, Jr.
Farnsworth, Edward P.
Faulkner, Richard Douglas
Federspiel, Sophus
Felter, William Rensalaer
Fetter, Ferdinand
Fiddes, Oscar Henry
Filmer, George
Filmer, William Parker, P. M.
Finberg, Martin Isaac ·
Fitz Gerald, John Joseph
Fletcher, George Robert
Fletcher, Joseph Marshall
Frank, Jacob, P. M.
Gamble, Frederick Nixon
Gard, John Cecil
Gardner, George Henry
Gaston, Henry Carson
24

Gates, Harry Everett
Gauld, George Green .,,
Gay, Frank Henry
Gedge, Donald McCulloch
Gellert, Isaac
George, Louie Elstner
Gerdes, Henry George
Gilbert, Melvin Elam
Gillman, Thoma!I
Gilmore, John Henry
Gilson, Alfred Goodrich
Ginley, Edward
Goldman, Joseph Hamilton
Goldstone, Joseph
Goldstone, Leo William
Goodman, Jacob Leon
Gorman, Edward Mitchell
Gorman, James Bartholomew
Gould, Frank Horace, P. M.
Graham, George Davie
Graham, Gilbert Fuller
Graham, Robert Fox
Green, Frederick Pell
Green, Henry Lloyd
Grundel, Otta Ferdinand
Gunzendorfer, Gustave, P. M.
Haag, Charles Paul
Hagedorn, August George
Halsted, Jamee Lafayette
Handley, Charles James
Hansen, Lawrence Henry
Hare, George Arthur
Harlow, George Totten
Harris, Cyrus Burnett
Harris, Henry
Harris, Jamee Willia~
Harris, Marshall C.
Hart, Henry Hersch
Hart, Sydney
Hartley, Roland English, P. M.
Harvey, Joseph
Hatch, James Henry
Hatcher, Jame11 Berry
Hatfield, Arthur Solomon
Hathaway, William Russell

389

3i0

ROSTER.

Hawkes, Robert Hamilton
Hawthorne, "harles Ralph
Hebbard, James Charles Baeon
Hegeman, Frederiek Mehno
Heineeke, George
Henderson, Alexander Boyd
Henderson, John
Hertz, Louis
Higgins, Charles Clunn
Hinkel, Charles Lewis
Hinkel, George Washington
Hobbs, Ira Sedley
Hoekwald, Abraham
Hoffman, Albert
Holje, Martin
Holling, Frederiek Charles
Hollister, Geo. Watkins
Honigsberg, Hubert Sylvain
Hoover, George Speneer
Hosmer, Frank Wieks
Huber, Martin Henry
Huber, Otto Frederiek
Huff, Wm. Henry Routin
Hughes, Edward Calvin
Hulling, James Alexander
Hult, Clarenee Albin
Hunsaker, Hiram Walker
Hutehings, Hiram Samuel
Hyer, John Jaeob
Ingerson, Harry Ford
Irvine, John Christopher
Irwin, Joseph Newman Hall
J aekson, Arehibald
Janssen, Edward Anton
Jellison, Benja~in Franklin, P. M.
Johnston, James
Johnston, John
Jones, Ottiwell Wood
Jones, Riehard Huber Sayers
Kalben, Edward Charles
Kant, Arthur Mareus
Kant, Max David
Kayton, Abraham Harold
Kernell, Andrew J aekson
Kidd, Arthur

Kimble, Charles William
Kinread, William Henry
Kirkwood, Benjamin
Klein, Adolph
Knapp, Wilbur Frederiek
Knight, Ray Nathaniel
Koehman, Miehael J.
Koeh, John
Koop, Otto Lewis
Kr11;fft, Julius Ernest
Kroenke, August Ernest
Kroenke, Edward Henry Ferd.
Kucieh, Spiro
Larige, Charles Edward
Lau, Albert Henry
Law, Hartland
Lawrenee, Daniel Maek
Layng, John Beatty
Layng, William Gib~on
Leete, Walter Howard
Levison, Benjamin
Levison, Harry
Levy, Melville Samuel
Levy, Sylvain Samuel
Lewis, Emanuel ·
Lewis, Mark Emanuel
Lieb, Warren Frederiek
Linde, Theodore
Lindsay, Fred Johnston
Little, William Thomas
Livingston, Harvey L.
Lond, Eugene Franeis
Lowenberg, Albert Joseph
Lurmann, Carl Fritz
Lurmann, Frederiek William
Lyneh, Henry Hudson
Maaek, Walter Henry
MaeDonald, Allan
Maddoek, Robert Henry
Maginnis, Charles
Manning, George Patriek
Manning, Horatio Seymour
Marais, Charles Louis P., P. M.
Mareus, Siegfried
Marlin, William Abel

ROS'l'ER.

•I

:Marshall, Joseph Lawrenee
Martin, Henry Sebastian
Martin, Oliver Brooks
Martin, Robert S.
Mathison, John Alfred
May, Angelo Mayer
Mayers, Edgar John
MeCullough, Edwin Clifford
Meilvaine, Winfield Kennedy
MeKee, William Joseph
MeKelvey, Samuel, P .. M.
MeMullen, Burton Fleteher
MeMullen, Lewis Green
Mee, John Sydney
Meinen, ·Fred August
Merralls, William Augustus
Metson, William Henry
Meussdorffer, Charles George
Meyer, Adolph
Meyer, Albert Adolph
Miller, Adam
Miller, Gustave Edward
Miller, Jesse Harrison
Miller, Joseph B.
Millman, Louis Philip
Minedew, Oliver Franeis
Mitehell, John Renton
Moeker, Andrew
Moelk, Henry Peter
Monekton, Frank Daniel
Moore, Robert Bruee
Moores, Charles William
Morgan, Perey- Tredegar
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Morris, Milton Edward
Morton, Thomas John
Mote, Elmer Ellsworth
Mues, John Frederiek
Mundell, William Anderson
Mureh, John Harold, Jr.
Mureh, John Haven
Nauert, August Bertram
Neal, George Folger
Nelson, Peter Nieoll
Neville, Samuel Edmund

371

Niehols, Hiram Delbert
Nielson, Thomas ·
•
Niemann, Carl Henry
Noethig, Hermann William
Noethig, Wm. Frederiek
Norris, Eugene Joseph
Oehsner, Riehard Leon
0 'Connor, Edward Arthur
Ogilen, Marion Maequewan
Ohm, Rudolph Ferderick
O'Keeffe, Daniel Joseph Augustin
Oleovieh, Julian Herrman
Paeker, Charles Henry
Peek, Allen Harris
Peek, George Foster
Pennyeook, William Gemmel
Peters, Henry
Peterson, George
Peterson, Ivan
Petrie, Frank Branson
Plekard, Charles
Pinkham, Ch!Ul. Bradley
Plaee, George Coxon
l;'ratt, Frank
Preston, James Theo.
Priee, William
Proll, William Reginald
Rainsbury, John
Raiseh, Albert John
Raiseh, William Christopher
Ralston, Franklin Freeman
Randall, Charles Henry
Ranft, Henry Andrew, P. M.
Rankin, Samuel Hamilton
Reearte, Domingo Henry
Redmond, Ezekiel •
Reynolds, Johnson, P. M.
Riee, William Henry
Riehards, James Henry
Rier, August Fredrieh
Rixon, Albert William
Roethe, Charles Henry
Roethe, E'dward John
Rogers, Samuel Lueius
Rohde, Peter Frederiek

..
372
Rose, Carl Walter
Rosendorn, Solomon
Rosekrans, Isaac Newton
Ross, William Moulton
Rossick, Frank
• Rothkopf, Albert Peter
Rowe, Purcell
Rupp, George Paul
Rushton, Charles Austin
Russell, Lee Fontaine
Ryan, Frank Bradberry
Ryfkogel, William James Yuill
Salsbury, Charles'
Saxton, . James George
Saylor, William Henry
Schalitz, Carl Louis
Scheel, Conrad Ernest
Schiff, Edwin Raymond
Schleicher, August Frederick
Schloss, Aaron, P. M.
Schmidt, Walter Bernhard
Schnee, Gustave
Schober, Henry Julius
Schord, Louis Gustaf
Schussler, Toby
Shilling, Levi
Shimer, Harry Woodworth
Shur, Herrman Fred, Jr.
Silver, Mark Butler
Simmen, Frank Paul
Skellinger, Harry Dow
Smiley, Samuel Patton
Smith, Andrew Francis
Smith, Charles Alfred
Smith, Emory Evans
Smith, Frank Landers Markham
Smith, John Thompson
Smith, Lars Anderson
Smith, Samuel Harrison
Smyth, Owen Henry
Spanton, James
Sparrow, Arthur James
Spaulding, James Garfield
Spowart, James Beverage
Sproule, William

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Staneart, John Warren
Steiner, Joseph Samuel
Steinmann, Otto
Stevens, James William
Stevenson, Samuel Boyd, P..M.
Stewart, Charles Richard
Stone, Waid James
Stott, Joseph Hood
Swain, Frank Allston
Taber, Orrin, Jr.
Tade, John Edwin
Thaten, Peter Hansen
Thomas, Allen Lloyd
Thomas, Francois Charles
Thomson, Harry Stoddard
Toni, Edward George
Toothill, Albert
Tracey, Robert Eugene
Tracy, Theo, Foster
Tryon, William Merrill
Turner, Ernest
Van Emon, Burton Charles
Veit, Mathias
Vogelsang, Alex. Theo.
Waas, Louis Henry Hermann
Wagener, Francis Emil
Wagner, Henry Fred
Walker, Robert Andrew
Warfield, Richard Emerson
Warwick, David
Warwick, James
Warwick, James Blain
Watkins, Joseph
Webster, Frank Woodward
Weihe, Otto Albert
Welch, James Francis
Wend ell, Clarence Theo.
Wenzel, Henry
Wertheimer, Bertram Ed.
Wertheimer, Kaufman
Wetherbee, Charles
Wetherbee, George
Wethered, William Lowry
Whiting, Randolph Virginius
Whitley, Gerald Storer

Whitson, John Granville
Wieboldt, Peter Wm. Nicholas
Wilkinson, William
Williams, Percy Alton
Williams, Thomas Cariisle
Willis, Christopher Cooke
Wise, Wallace Christian
Wisefiock, John Michael
Witham, Walter Dunham
Witham, William Leonard

373

Wittman, George Walter, P. M.
Wolpmann, Dietrich
Wood, Fred Burrage, P. M.
Wood, Thomas
Wrenn, John Winchester
Young, James
Zahler, Emil Frederick
Zellerbach, Isadore
Ziliani, Faustino
Zollner, Alfred
--492

WITHDRAWN:
*Burtis, Robert Wallace
*Jeremy, John Edward

Lockwood, Frank Edgar
Lockyer, Frank Herbert
Park, Burnett Cain

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Babine, Alexis V.
Kuchmeister, Henry Andrew
Birdsall, Walter Buell
La Berge, Walter C.
Brough, Henri Bruce
Regensburger, Martin
· Couper, August
Stratton, Owen Tully
Johnson, Henry
Vincent, William
Kerr, David
Young, Henry Fred
DIED:
Fuller, Geo. Wash.
Hosmer, John Allen

Morton, Thomas
Rogers, Herbert Oliver
Wahl, Carl

TUSCAN LODGE, No. 26I.
Williams, _colusa County.
Stated Me.e tings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•

George Abner Ware, Master,
George Henry Simmons, Sen. Deacon,
Stephen Smith Eakle, Senior Ward., Aron B. Levy, Junior Deacon,
William Curtis Tully, Jun. Warden, Austin Arthur Entrican, Marshal,
James McFerran Stovall, Treasurer, Percival H . Northey, Steward,
Charles Lemuel Schaad, Secretary, Benj. Franklin Peters, Steward,
John Lindsay Mendenhall, Tyler.
• Restored during the year.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

374

MEMBERS:
Kidd, Floyd Edwin
Kneutzen, Edgar Hound
Manor, Lewis G.
Mendenhall, John Lindsay
Mitchell, David Grove
Noble, William Wallace
Northey, George Vine
Northey, Percival Hamilton
Olsen, Peter
Peters, Benjamin Franklin
Peters, Benjamin Henry
Pryor, Benjamin Pollard
Rathbun, Horace Herbert, P. M.
Rathbun, Joseph Edwin, P. M.
Schaad, Charles Lemuel
Schaad, Clarence August
Schuckman, Charles Walter
Schuckman, Frank James
Spencer, John Anderson
Stovall, Hiram Curl, P. M.
Stovall, James McFerran
Sutton, Adam Fisher
Tully, William Curtis
Tully, William Robert
Ware, George Abner
Welch, Robert Francis
West, Charles Edward, P. M.

Abel, George Lambert
Abel, Henry Herman
Abel, John Frederick, Jr., P. M.
Anthony, George Jonathan
Anthony, Lewis Hurd, P. M.
Anthony, Orville Angelo
Apple, Joseph Henry
Barber, Frank William
Barker, George William
Boardman, Francis Marion
Bond, David Milton
Bosworth, Henry Clark
Brim, John Wiley
Carney, Joseph Francis
Clark, Reuben, P. M.
Comstock, Geo. Courtland, P. M.
Corse, John Mitchell
Crutcher, James Wilson
Eakle, Stephen Smith
Entrican, Austin Arthur, P. M.
Fouch, Ira Albert, P. M.
Fouch, John Franklin, P. M.
Graham, Patrick Henry
Harris, Joseph Warren
Hemenway, George
Jackson, Calvin
Kimball, A. Wellington, P. M.

-54

· LOMPOC LODGE, No.

262.

Lompoc, Santa Barbara County.

MEMBERS:
Andrews, Owen Merriwether
Bailey, William Henry
Ball, Walter Colton
Bayley, Benjamin Franklin
Beardslee, William Satterlee
Beatty, Sanford Wilson
Boyd, Alden March
Browne, Frederick Dorwin
Burns, Alfred Isaac .
Corbett, Frederick William
Danneberg, Robert
Dimock, Harry Clinton, P. M.
Dimock, Joseph
Dewing Alonzo Wilson
Dyer, Albert Hull
Dreyfus; Gaston
Earl, James Fennel
Elkins, Iris Benson
Field, Ezra Grant
Gleaves, Archibald. Duncan
Graham, James William
Griffin, Richard s:
Holst, Gerhard Tonberg
Irwin, John Lloyd
Jackson, William, P. M.
Jackson, Walter King
Kelleher, Mayville Sumpter
Kidd, Rob".rt Boben
Klein, Julius, P. M.
Lambert, Henry Harrison
Lehmann, Armand, P. M.
Lehmann, Charles Emile
Lewis, Frank Stanton
Lind, John Christian
McCabe, Harry C.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Arthur Rudolph , Master,
Edwin Chester Wilkins, Sen. Dea.,
Wm. Lyman Talbot, Senior Warden, Walter Robert Smith, Jun. Deacon,
Sanford Wilson Beatty, Jun. War., Henry Edwin McCabe, Marshal,
James Sloan, Treasurer,
John Franklin Rudolph, Steward,
Henry Harrison Lambert, Secretary, Jensen Peter Poulsen, Steward,
Henson Poland, Chaplain!
James Henry McGee, Tyler.

375

Dean, James Burrows
Eefsen, Valdamar
Mattie, Frank Peter

Dockery, John

McCabe, Henry Edwin
McGee, James Henry
McGregor, Robert Roy
McPhail, Albert Franklin
Meade, Alonzo
Meals, Charles Andrew
Mon.tieth, Andrew Ector
Morrey, Herbert Peter, P. M.
Peck, Wright Hunt, P. M.
Perry, Thomas Longworth
Poland, Henson, P. M.
Poulsen, .Jensen Peter
Reynolds, Geo. Edgar
Rosendale, Henry Johannes
Rucker, Geo. Ferguson, P. M.
Rudolph, Arthur, P. M.
Rudolph, Harvey Sampson
Rudolph, John Franklin
Sheridan, Elmer McCaskey
Sloan, James
Smith, James Henry
Smith, Walter Robert
Spanne, Nis Lauritzen
Starr, Edward Bean
Sudden, William Henry, P. M.
Talbot, Homer Irwin
Talbot, William Lyman
Talliday, Jerome W.
Thompson, John Henry
Truitt, Daniel Tingle
Truitt, Samuel Paul
Warwick, Austin C., P. M.
Weill, Armond Charles
Wilkins, Edwin Chester, P. M.

-69

WITHDRAWN:
Miller, Robert E.
Miller, Robert Luther
Pontius,· David M.
DIED:
Raymond, Eli Pardee

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

HESPERIAN LODGE, No. 264.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Hugh F. Robertson, Master,
Henry Kelley, Senior Deacon,
Wade Hampton Sawyers, Sen. War., Albert P. Kennedy, Junior Deacon,
Albert AHen Dudley, Jun. Warden, Major P. Baker, Marshal,
Lepold Pio Scaroni, Treasurer,
George G. Brown, Steward,
Robert J. Grey, Secretary,
Robert B. Grant, Steward,
Benj. Duc;!ley Snudden, Chaplain,
Thomas C. Nance, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abler, Henry John
Allen, Oliver 0.
Armstrong, Charles W.
Bagby, Henry Clay, P. M.
Baker, Frederick Arthur
Baker, Major P.
Barnes, William
Bell, Benjamin Franklin
Bell, Joseph Ross
Blosser, Lorenzo Waugh
Bradley, Charles
Bradley, James Fred'k.
Brown, Chas. Benj.
· Brown, George Gilbert
Brown, Marcellus
Buchanan, Porter
Buss~ll, Mark R.
Cost, August
Crees, Robert
Crow, Samuel Eugene
Cuff, Charles Armstrong
Culp, William Woods
Doane, George Mason
Dudley, Albert Allen
Dutcher, Charles B.
Eames, Abraham Lincoln
Easton, Robert Eastman
Ebel, Julius
Fesler, Stephen
Fesler, Sterling Oliver
Froom, Ace! Harvey

Gardner, Charles V ergil
Goodwin, James Franklin, P. M.
Grant, John W.
Grant, Robert Bruce
Grissingher, Guiseppe
Hanerton, Matt Warm
Hanlin, Clarence Vincent
Harpster, David Pyle
Harris, Henry Hersh
Haydon, John Harrison
Heath, John Holloway
Hebard, Francis Edward
Heller, Herman Alwin
Herron, James Williamson, P. M.
Hickey, Abraham Lincoln
Holt, Leon C.
.
Hopper, Joel Leigh
Houk, John
Jones, Albert Rennels
Jones, Warden S.
Kaiser, Joseph
Kelley, Henry Josepil
Kelley, William F.
Kennedy, Albert Patterson
Kennedy, Harry
Kobloth, Julius
Lang, John
Lengfeld, Karl 0. G.
Liben, John Babtiste
Lind, James Melche
Linderman, Fred

Sinsheimer, Samuel Charles
Smith, John William
Snudden, Benj. Dudley
Spalding, David Carter
Stilwell, William Wilson, P. M.
Stowe, Dudley Dunning
Stowell, Henry Edgar
Thornburg, Frank Leslie
Thornburg, Madison, P. M.
Tietzen1 Paul Otto
Todd, Willard
· Treat, James Madison
Trumbull, William Washington
Tunnell, Henry Clay
Tunnell, William Hulbert, P. M.
Twitchell, Fremont C., P. M.
Von Breyman, Geo. E.
Walker, James
Walker, John E.
Walker, William Frederick
Weilheimer, Alfred
Wilcox, Scuylar Nind, P. M.
Williams, Thomas Jeffreys
Winters, Jonn Hugh
Wolfe, John Richard
Woods, Nahum Hinckley
-115

Livingston, Charles Simon
Logan, John Samuel
Logan, William Pleasant
Long, John
Marsh, Walter John
Martin, Charles LeRoy
Maulsby, Larkin W.
McGuire, Irving Nolan, P. M.
McGuire, Mortimer Lafayette
Miller, Isaac, Jr.
Mitchell, Watson E.
Moore, Harvey A.
Murdock, Charles Wallace
Nance, Thomas
Nerverth, Stephen
Norris, John Mc;Neil
Orr, Adison Harvey, P. M.
Paulding, Ormand Pinkerton
Peterman, Joseph L.
Pires, Manuel Francisco, P. M.
Pr~ll, John Gottlob
Priesker, Thomas
Rice, John Tandy
Robertson, Hugh Franklin
Sawyers, Wade Hampton
Scaroni, Lepold Pio
Shuman, John Lennington

Mudgett, Samuel

377

DIED:
Travers, Robert

ORLAND LODGE, No. 265.
Orland, Glenn County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Samuel lglick, Master,
Willis A .Greenwood, Sen. War.,
Williard Clark, Junior Warden,
Wm. Wesley Thomas, Treasurer,
Louis Martin Reager, Secretary,
Frank Seymour Reager, Chaplain,

Eugene Michael Ehorn, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Douglas Miller, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Brown, Marshal,
Geo. Wash. Harriger, Steward,
Roy O'Hair, Steward,
John Thomas, Tyler.

ROSTER.

378

ROSTER.

.MEMBERS:
Bailey, Mark
Bancroft, George Mason
Bane, Paul Davis
Brown, David
Brown, De Arnold
Brown, Thomas, P. M.
Busey, Fred 'k. Lewis
Clark, Willard
Clawson, Charles Wilson
Cleek, J eb Stuart
Conley, Joseph
Drake, Thomas Benton
Ehorn, Eugene Michael
Ehorn, Joseph Evart
Ehorn, Samuel Fraley
Green, Edward Elmer
Greenwood, Willis Adelbert
Hamilton, John Cummins
Hannah, David
~arriger, George Washington
Hightower, Roy DeWitt
Holmes, Raleigh
Joy, Wm. Henry
Kastrup, Thomas Nelson
Kesselring, Emanuel Bentz
Kirkpatrick, Garfield Stanley
Kirkpatrick, Thomae J.
McCandlaes, Alfred Lewis

McClintock, John Porter
Mecum, Earl Horton
Miller, Charles Douglas
Milner, Thomas
Morrissey, James Byron, P. M.
Morrissey, William Henry, P. M.
Murdock, Gawn Worth
Murdock, Robert Burns ·
Murdock, Stanley Worth, P. M.
Neilson, James
O 'Hair, Roy
0 'Hair, William B.
Papet, "Albert
Rawlins, George Edgar
Reager, Frank Seymour
Reager, Louis Martin
Roberts, Brunn Sheldon
Skillman, James Michael
Sutliff, Fred Courtland
Thomas, John
Thomas, William Wesley
Utz, Adolph Albert
Utz, Gustave
Utz, Magnus Carl
Utz, .William Henry
Watl!:ine, William Wallace
Wright, George Ephraim, P. M.
-55

WITHDRAWN:
Watt, George

NORTH EAST LODGE, No. 266.

•

MEMBERS:
Ayres, George Hamilton, P. M.
Kober, Henry, P. M.
Lowell, Albert Carrol, P. M.
Bailey, Oliver Eugene
Lowell, Walter Reuben
Baty, Albert Longley
Mcconnaughy, Edward C., P. M.
Browne, Daniel Parish
Mcconnaughy, Robert Franklin
Bucher, Douglas
MeBBner, Fred George
Bucher, John
Meyers, Fred
Dodson, John
Miller, Henry Horton
Ellis, James
Raymon·d, Irving Clarke
Fee, Charles Haven, P. M.
Shartel, William Warren
Flemming, Theo. Mirten
Smith, Eber Dexter
Fulcher, Frank Edward
Smith, Francis Kastner
Fulcher, Max .
Smith, George Christie
Herrington, Jerry
Snelling, Roy L.
Hickey, James Bartlett
Tonningsen, Asmus Frederick
Hunter, Hugh Alex.
Ward, Albert Smith
Jopp, Hudson Orsen
Williams, James
Kafader, Charles Daniel, P. M.
-35
Kober, George Martin, P. M.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hamlen, Alfred Marshall

GALT LODGE, No. 267.
Galt, Sacramento County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Oscar Frazier, Master,
Lewis G. Baldwin, S enior Deacon,
Joseph Lloyd Orvis, Sen. Warden, James Conley, Junior Deacon,
James Henry Thompson, J. Warden, S. T . Murrell, Marshal,
Samuel C. McClaughry, Treasurer, James Short, Steward,
Wallace B. Sawyer, Secretary,
Charles E . Lease, Steward,
Thomas M. Barnhart, Tyler.

Fort Bidwell, · Modoc County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Daniel Kafader, Master,
Charles Haven Fee, Senior Deacon,
Edward Chas. McConnaughy, S. W ., Fred Meyers, Junior Deacon,
Eber Dexter Smith, Jun. Warden, Francis Kastner Smith, Marshal,
Max Fulcher, Treasurer,
Albert Smith Ward, Steward,
Henry Kober, Secretary,
Albert Longley Baty, Steward,
Robert F. McConnaughy, Chaplain, George Christy Smith, Tyler.

379

Adams, Charles Campbell
Ames, Alden Thayer
Andrus, John
Baldwin, Lewie Gardner, P. M.
Barnhart, Thomas M.
Bolton, Curtis Arthur
Conley, James
Frazier, Jamee Oscar, P. M.
Gaun, James Franklin

MEMBERS:
Gower, Ray Louis
Hagel, John
Harms, Frederick William, P. M.
Hartman, John
Henley, Elihu Shields, P. M.
Hobday, Kelsey Henry
Kennedy, K.enneth Clyde
Kientz, Edward Blaine
King, William Isaac

ROSTER.

380
Latourrette, Pardee H., P. M.
Lease, Charles Edward
Lewis, Samuel Amanzo
McClaughry, Samuel C., P. M.
Miles, Ralph Augustus
Morrison, Lebbius B.
Orvis, Joseph Lloyd
Overmyer, Jonathan Moore

Prouty, William ilarrieon
Rae, John Goodwilla
Sawyer, Wallace Born
Shepard, Amor D.
Short, Jamee Madison, P. M."
Smith, Charles Samuel
Thompson, James Henry, P. M.
Whitaker, James
-34

DURANT LODGE, No. 268.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

George Leol;lard, Master,
Burton James Rose, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Seward Coleman, Sen. War., Henry Day Lansing, Jun. Deaco11,
Dozier Finley, Ju11ior Wardell,
Clarence Casebolt Dakin, Marshal,
Clarence Sidney Merrill, Treasurer, Edward G. B<1l1es, Steward,
Wm. H. H. Gentry, Secretary,
Gustav Adolph Griesche, Steward,
Charles Louis Bi~enbach, Chaplain, Barzillia P. Bull, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Acheson, William John
Bell, James Aloysius
Adelsack; Edward
Berry, Rufus Albert
Adler, John Olaf
Berryman, Frederick Miles, P. M.
Albee, Marshall Pickney W., P. M. Berryman, John
Alberti, Frank Jackson
Bevan, Lynne John
Allen, Charles Edward
Biedenbach, Charles Louis, P. M.
Allyn, George Spencer
Biehl, Philip Fred 'k Christian
Alston, Chas. Frederick
Blanchard, Milton Eugene
Andersen, Andrew
Blank, Charles Alexander
Anderson, Alfred
Bliven, Ralph Wagener
Anderson, Arthur DeVere
Blohm, Charles Henry, P. M.
Anderson, William Walker, P. M.
Boag, Matthew Pettigrew
Atthowe, Reginald
Bolles, Edward Grosvenor
Atthowe, Wm. John
Bolton, Adelbert Elwin
Baalmann, Peter Henry John
Bourke, Louis
Bagge, Lare Brun
Bowman, Benjamin Franklin
Baker, Barney P.
Bowring, Franklin
Bartlett, Thomas Edward Eve
Branthaver, Daniel
Barton, John Edward
Bricker, Lorin H. ·
Beattie, John Wm. Cox
Brier, William Wallace

ROSTER.
Bridgman, Edward Charles, P. M .
Bridgman, Harry William
Brown, George Chester
Browne, Alexis Leonidas
Bowers, Jonas Irwin
. Bull, Barzillia P., P. M.
Burg, Edward John
Bush, Robert Edward
Bush, Will Pratt
Caldecott, John William
Caldecott, Thomas Edwin
Cameron, William Harry
Chadbourne, Thomae Edgar
Chase, John Franklin
Chase, Thomas Henry
Chick, Guy Hyde
Chilcote, Gaylord Hammond
Church, Sidney Leroy
Clark, Ernest Brooks
Clark, Lemuel Seth
Clark, Thomas James
Clemensen, Edward
Cloudman, Harold Caldwell
Cloudman, Octavius King, P. M.
Coggins, Clifford Edmund
Coleman, William Seward
Colemore, Cha~les Arthur
Connor, Freel Frank
Cooley, Arthur Stuart
Cooley, Frederick Allen
Comish, Harry Louis
Creagmile, Thomas
Crow, Clarence Cross
Dakin, Clarence Casebolt
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd
Dakin, Frederick Holroyd, Jr.
Daeeking, Herman
Davis, David George
Day, William
DeLaneie, Richard
Deming, James Hervey
Dikeman, Simon Henry
Dobbins, Hugh Hills
Dodsworth, Robert Metcalf
Doolittle, Nelson Roseville

381

Dore, Cornelius William
Dowling, Daniel Edward
Dozier, Charles Thomasson
Drum, Will Pierpont
Dungan, Herbert Leo
Dunscomb, Charles Ell<Jworth
Durant, James Alvah
Durgin, Frank Ward
Durrell, George Gilman
Dyke, Louis Henry
Dykes, Hugh Thomas
Edgar, Arthur
Edgar, Robert, P. M.
Edgar, Samuel
Edgar, William James
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Elwell, Frank David
Emanuele, Geo. Frederick
Eshelman, John Morton
Farrar, Joseph Teel
Farrar, Joseph Teel, Jr.
Farrar, Wendell Dale
Fenander, Kaarlo
Ferrier, Francis
Finley, Dozier
Foss, Martin
Foster, Charles Tilden
Fouch, Albert, P. M.
Fox, Michael Peter
Frank, Frederick Sophus .
Franks, Henry Ernest
Fraser, Daniel McLeod
Frazier, Silas Henry, P. M.
Frey, Arthur Ferdinand
Galloup, Henry Clay
Gentry, Wm. Henry Harrison, P. M.
Gerrine, Charles AndMw
Gibb, Charles Leo
Gilbert, Charles Phelps
Girard, Francis John
Gompertz, Charles Felix
Gompertz, Walter Alex., P. M.
Goodburn, William Robert
Goodman, William Graves
Goes, Homer

382
Gottshall, Louis
Graber, Thomas Frederick
Gregg, Thomas Monroe
Gregg, Wellington
Greig, Robert, P. M.
Griesche, Arthur James
Grlesche, Gustave Adolph
Haines, William Barre
Hamlin, Terrel Lambert
Hampton, Joseph Charles
Harms, Edward Theo.
Harroun, Philip Embury
Hays, Thomas Abram
Heywood, Charles Dingley
Higgins, Charles Henry
Hill, William Lair
Hiney, William
Hopkins, William Hewes
Huberich, Victor Hugo
Rueter, Ferdinand Edward
Hughes, Alva Fish
Hunt, Clarence Melville
Hunt, Philip M.
Hutton, James Alex.
Hyde, Wm. Herschel, Jr.
Ison, William, P. M.
Jacobsen, Nels August
James, Chas. Herbert
Jenness, Herbert Henri
Jensen, Jens Peter
Jensen, John Charles, P. M.
Johnston, Charles Edward
Jones, Herbert
Kelsey, Clarence Early
Kelsey, Frank Bayles
Kelsey, John Edson
Kierul:ff, Thomas Cundell
Kilburn, Cleon
Kirk, Miles Woolery
Kittridge, Maurice Cogswell
Kline, George Washington
Knowles, Wm. A. Lindley, P. M.
Knowles, William Edward
Laine, Frederick Adolph
Laird, Herbert Frank

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Lansing, Henry Day
Lassen, Fred Norman
Leonard, George
Lester, James Robert
Lewin, Robert Allen
Lindsay, Lionel
Little, James Edwin
Lockett, Albert
Longnecker, Harry Ellsworth
Lord, Carlos Reuben, P. M.
. Lorenz, William Frederick
Love, Joseph Charles
Lutz, Albert Simon
MacLennan, Malcolm C;
Macomber, Benjamin
Mad drill, John William
Maldondo, Fernando B.
Marsellis, Ford
Martin, John', P. M.
Mason, Wm. MacPherson
Masters, Stuart Galbraith
Mattern, George Alfred
Maydwell, Charles Allen
McCain, Charles Joseph
McCleave, Thomas Crooke
McDonald, Runcan T.
Mcintyre, Dan Hugh
McLean, Charles Henry
McMahon, Bernard Strange
McNulty, Charles Raymond
McNulty, Harry James
McNulty, James Monroe
Meredith, James Wash.
Merrall, Willard Henry
Merrill, Clarence Sidney
Merrill, Ralph Howard
Merritt, Alfred Purvanius
Mesick, William Rundle
Mesow, Frank Herman
Metcalf, George Dickson, P. M.
Mikkelsen, Christian
Mills, Philo
Monges, Henry Baba'd, Jr.
Moran, William Chadwick
Morris, Moses

•

Morris, Ozias Manly
Morrison, Hugh Robert
Morse, Clinton Ralza
Mosher, James Walton
Needham, William Gloss
Neiman, William Frank
Neiman, Wm. Henry
Nichols, John Carroll
Niehaus, Edward Ernest
Nixon, Joseph Robert
O'Brien, George William
O'Donnell, Francis Henry E., P. M.
Oxley, George Edmund.
Patterson, Henry. Robert
Peake, Frederick Richard Graham
Pearce, Jackson Andrew
Perry, Wm. Stanton
Peters, Joseph Arnold
Peterson, Theo. Carl Wilhelm
Phillips, Welton Josiah
Pierce, Albert Ernest
Pierce, Archie Burton
Putzker, Albin
Ralston, Robert Gordon
Ramoni, Frederick Louis
Randall, Henry Irwin
Rasmussen, Peter Niels
Reece, Frederick Bennett
Reef, Henry Jacob
Reid, Clarence F.
Reinhardt, George Frederick
Reist, Jay Harry
Remond, Prudent
Rhodes, James Woodmanse
Ricard, Thomas
Richardson, Friend William
Richter, Frederick Charles
Riegar, William
Roach, William Henry
Robinson, Harrison Sidney
Rose, Burton James
Rowell, Hubert Nathan
Rowell, Joseph Arthur
.Ruble, George Frank
Runde, Christopher Henry George

Rutherford, Robert Ruecastle
Ryder, Morgan Lewis
Sanchez, Joseph Gordon
Saph, Augustus Valentine
Sawyer, Able Allen
Schmitz, Hugo
Schott, Walter Edgar
Schuldt, Emil George
Scotchler, Joseph Lincoln
Scott, George Arthur
Sharwood, William John
Sherman, Andtew Fairchild
Shirk, David Lawson
Shoecraft, Byron Nye
Shuman, John Franklin
Sill, Stephen Joseph
Simpson, Frank Wm.
Sittig, Edward John
Slack, Wa.Iter Keyes
Smith, Howard Murray
Smith, James Lumbert
Smyth, George Blood
Soule, Edward Lee
Springer, Fred Foster
Springer, George Ernest
Squires, Harry James
Stamper, Alva Walker
Stephens, Alex. Hamilton
Stevenson, Thomas
Ste'!'l'art, Robert
Stocking, Reuben Hurd
Stone, Jack Livingston
Stone, John
Stone, Marion Pierce
Strother, Horace Feaguis
Stubenrauch, Arnold Valentine
Such, William Thomas
Swain, George
Swayne, Richard Barnard
Sykes, Joseph Smith
Taylor, Henry Willard
Thomas, Edmund Davies, P. M.
Thomas, Edmund John
Thompson, Robert Crawford
Thomson, Robert

383

ROSTER.

384
Thrall, Herbert Parsons
Traub, Harry Louis
Threlkeld, Melville Calvert
Titus, Louis
Tobin, David Joseph
Todd, Frank Morton
Van der Haas, Pieter A.drianus H.
Van Wynen, Edward Alfred
Wadsworth, William Henry
Wagner, Peter A.
Wallace, Fred William
Walsh, Edward Marion
Wanger, Gustav Adol,ph
Waste, Harry Lotis
Waste, William Harrison, P. M.
Waterman, Sylvanus Dexter
Watson, Henry Hugh
Webb, Christopher Clark
Webb, George Standish
Weber, Fred Dale
Weeks, George Rufus
Weir, Robert John
Weir, William Kirkwood
Welden, David Ralph
Wentworth, Daniel Rodger

WITHDRAWN:
Buckley, Randolph Johnson
DIED:
Delafield, Robert Hare
Domin, George Dally
Fischel, Simon
Frost, John
Hodge, Thomas

Janeen, John Henry
John.son, Harry Hubbard
Menefee, Wm. Herechall
Rose, James
Sanborn, Warren Gilman
Witter, Willis Guy

385

OLIVE BRANCH LODGE, No. 269.
Tulare, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Henry Whaley, Master
Ulysses Grant Cott1e, Senior Deacon,
Harris Oberlin Chute, Sen. Warden, George Carter Burnett, Jun. Deacon,
Samuel B. Anderson, Jun. Warden, Alex. Woodfall Wheeler, Marshal,
Charles F . Smithson, Treasurer,
Melville Green Cottle, Steward,
James Winnard Davis, Secretary,
Robert Whaley, Steward,
Wooster Beach Cartmill, Chaplain, Augustus A. Hall, Tyler.

-359
'

Beard, Geo. Foster

ROSTER.

Westenberg, Charles Albert
Whalley, Thomas Williams
Wharff, William Hatch
Wheeler, William Henry
Whitham, John Hastings
Wilcox, George L.
Wilder, John Chase
Wilkinson, Crayton Winsor ·
Williams, James Henry
Wilson, Gustaf Herman
Winham, HJirry Granville
Winter, De
Wise, James Hugh
Wood,_Alpheus Joel
Wood, Jacob Hanlin
Woolsey, Philip .Sheridan
Woolsey, Wm. Edgar
Worden, Elisha Case
Wright, .Harry Manville
Wright, William Aboum
Wyman, J. Henry, P. M.
Young, Roy J ackeon
Young, William Albert
Zehner, Harry Scott

MEMBERS:
Alford, Benjamin Michael
Davie, Jamee Winnard, P. M.
Anderson, Frank Elliott
Dresser, Roland Henry .
Anderson, James Morrow
Dress.er, Wm. Christopher
Anderson, Harvey George
Dunlap, Wm. E vered
Anderson, Samuel Bard
Elwood, John Henderson
Abercrombie, Louie Le Bon
Eldridge, Francis Marion, P. M.
J:Sacigalupi, Theo.
Ellsworth, Frank A.
Bachelder, Isaac Ottis
Evey, Charles Lee
Barber, Emmet
Fowler, Alonzo Tully
Beaver, Romanus Hess
Fry, Angus Eugene
Beckwith, Harry Howe
Fothergill, William Alfred
Bering, Robert Eugene
Fraser, Alex.
Birkhead, John Nixon
Giannini, Frank
Blodgett, Thomas DeHaven
Green, Francie Harrison
Blythe, Samuel Allison
Hall, Albert Augustus
Boone, Thomas Lee
Hall, Anson Parson
Broadwell, John W.
Hatch, Charles Melzer
Brock, Cecil Calvin, P . M.
Hayes, Frank Penn
Buehrer, Wm. Henry
Haney, Lewie Joseph
Burnett, Clarence Martin
Henry, Charles Alex.
Burnett, George Carter
Higgins, William Alvey
Busby, Francis Marion
Janes, Arthur Augustin
Carruthers, Thomas Calvin
Jarrard, Thomas Newton
Cartmill, Wooster Beach, P. M.
Jones, Ralph
Chiem, Jamee Thomas
Jones, Thomas Woodward
Chute, Harris Oberlin
Lindsay, Alfred
Clarke, Robert Carrick
Martin, John
Cottle, Melvin Green
McMillan, Robert Thompson
Cottle, IDyseee Grant
Meador, John
Cowan, Miles
Miller, .Christian
Croes, Thomae
Monroe, Frank Marion
2.5

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

386

, Moore, Ja.mes Samuel
Moore1 Stephen Baldy
Morton, James Hamilton
Neff, Andrew Daniel
Nutting, David Wheeler
Oakford, Edward
Pace, Henry Lee •
Parr, Edward Franklin
Polley, Egbert Marion
Pratt, Clarenc~ Francis
Premo, Walter Emile Ratliff, William Pierce, P. M.
Ray, Randolph
Richardson, Samuel
Rosenthal, Solomon H.
Roth, George Harry
Rubble, Milton Alfonso
Russell, Calvin Louis, P. M.
Schoenemann, Charles Samuel
. Schoenemann, Louis Emil
Sheppard, Thomas Armstrong
Shreve, Harry Marston

MEMBERS:
Alexander, Charles
Morris, John Manor, P. M.
Morris, Thomas Wesley
Barrett, Wade
Boardman, Herbert Elias
Moon, Alfred Saxe
Bond, Charles Henry
Newton, George Calvin, P. M.
Burgett, Richard Sisk
Ray, David Porter
Davis, Edward
Sanber, Hulbert Herbert
Feuder, Johnson
Bites, John
Fortna, Francis Wash.
Sites, William Franklin
Haddick, Joseph Newton Morrison Stites, John Fernando•
Howard, Charles Benjamin
Stites, Rufus Gideon, P. M.
Howard, James Wesley
Stites, Samuel Edwin, P. M.
Hanes, James Henry
Stites, William Henry, P. M.
Lovelady, William Joshua, P. M.
Welton, Arthur Thomas.
McKaig; Wilbur Addison
-27

Smithson, Charles Fred.
Steinger, Edward Andrew
Stewart, Daniel
Suiter, Henry Arthur
Tarkington, Mathew Simpson
Thompson, Thomas Hinkley
Treadwell, James William, P. M.
Turner, Jesse Thomas
Warner, Joseph Henry
Washburn, Reuben Jewett
Waters, Richard Jefferson
Whaley, Henry, P . M.
Whaley, Robert
Wheeler, Alex. Woodfall
Whitmore, Dwight Joel
Whitmore, George Francis
Wilkinson, Herbert"'Edwin
Williams, William Payne
Wilson, John Lewis
Wright, George · Washington
Woody, John Harrison
Zartman, George Washington, P. M.
-106

•
PASADENA LOJ:?!iE, No.

Ferguson, Sidney Burnet

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

John Herbert Hall, }Jaster,
Guy Stanley Bliss, Senior Deacon,
Elmer Isaac Moody, Sen. Warden, Walter Richard Gibbings, J. Deacon,
Roscoe Paul Congdon, Jun. Warden, Earl Warren Nay, Marshal,
Sherman Washburn, Treasurer,
.William Henry Snudden, Steward,
Henry Ramel, Secretary,
Carl Hayes Yearian, Steward,
Walter Williams Ogier, Chaplain, George Rasmas Weaver, Tyler.

DIED:
Goble, John Albert

1
SNOW MOUNTAIN LODGE, No.

271.

Stony Ford, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Joshua Lovelady, Master, Rufus Gideon Stites, Senior Deacon,
John Manor Morris, Sen. Warden, David Porter Ray, Junior Deacon,
Charles Alexander, Junior Warden, Samuel Edwin Stites, Marshal,
Johnson Feuder, Treasurer,
Wilbur Addison McKaig, Steward,
Arthur Thomas Welton, Secretary, Charles H. Bond, Steward,
Thomas Wesley Morris, Tyler.

272.

Pasadena, Los Angeles County.

WITHDRAWN:
Walker, Charles Jesse

Allen, Wm. Stanford

387

MEMBERS:
Adams, Augustine Miller
Black, James Robert
Allen, Charles Emory
~lies, Ashley
Allen, Clark Parker
Bliss, Guy Stanley
Allin, Charles Arthur
Blow, Richard Tunstall
Allin, Thomas David
Boden, George Adam
Almond, Andrew
Bonham, Perry Pollock, P. M.
Arnold, Delos
Bonner,- Lewis Henry
Bailey, Isaac
Boutelle, George Henry
Baker, John Hamilton
Bowman, Robert Barkley
Barnhart, Warren Earle
Breiner, John
Bartlett, Louis Azel
Bridges, Gilbert Lee
Baugham, Jonathan Perkins
Briggs, Solon
Bennett, Henry Graves
BriStol, Albert Oliver
Bettes, Adoniram Monroe, P. M.
Bristol, Sidney All;iert

ROSTER.
388·

Brown, Charles Cowan
Brown, Luther Grinnell, P. M.
Brown, Pa trick
Buchanan, Charles Wesley, P. M.
Buchanan, Frank Wilmer ··
Buckins, John Jacob
Bunnell, Clarence Udell
Bunnell, George Havila
Clark, Laureston Livingston
Clarke, James •
Clapp, William Billings, P. M.
Clapp, William Taylor
Clifford, Arthur Miller
Coates, John
Coffman, Joshua Stevens
Colcord, Ralph Bennett
Cole, Galusha M.
Coleman, Theo.
Collins, Philip Angelo
Collis, George Watson
Colwell, Louis Trowbridge
Congdon, Roscoe Paul
Conger, Everett Lorentus
Conger, Howard Willis
Conger, William Henry
Cook, Arthur Newell
Cook, William B.
Coryell, George R.
Creller, William Frank
Crinckshank, Falconer George
Cronkite, Henry Murray, P. M .
Crowell, Weymouth
Crump, Edward Sisson
Cundy, William Albert
Davies, Edward William
Davis, James Porter
Davis, Paul McDonnell
Day, Charles Ambrose
Day, Clarence Parkman
DeHuff, Thomas Jefferson
DeMotte, Charles Wesley
De Pencier, Silas Theo. ·
Dickson, Henry Leslie
Doolittle, Samuel Hosmer
Dorn, Joseph H.

ROSTER.
Dorr, Charles Colby
Doud, William Manning
Drawbaugh, William
Dunn, William Henry
Dunsmoor, Albert·vandorus
Eckman, Arthur Wilson
1
Edmondson, James, P. M .
Edwards, Albert Ernest
Edwards, Simon Josiah
Edwards, William Bryant
Ehrenfeld, Charles
Eifler, Louis Edward
Eisen~uer, Michel
Elliott, Henry Torry
· Ellsworth, Herbert Lee
Ericksson, Olof Frederic.k
Ernsberger, Frank Armstrong
Fabian, Lionel John
Fairman, Thomas
Fansher, Samuel Wesley
Featherston, lienry Ward
Ferrand, Philip Emile
Fiske, Harold Albert
Fletcher, Frank Sylvester B.
Forbes, George Lewis
Ford, William W.
Foye, Frank Alonzo
Frary, Frank Luman
Fraser, Jefferson C.
Freeman, Oscar Otto, P. M.
Freeman, Lingard Clay
Frost, George Henry
Fuller, Charles Clifford
Gammon, Ansel Elder
Gardner, Charles Andrew, P. M.
Garwood, Harvey Honestus
George, Herbert Edmund.
Gibbings, Percy Nicholas
Gibbings, Walter Richard
Gibson, Lester Henry
Gould, Fred Ambrose
Graham, James Dawson
Greely, George Augustus
Gregory, Charles Pickett
Griffin, Arthur Leslie

•

Grimes, Charles
·Hahn, Benjamin Winfield
Hall, John Herbert
Hall, Peter
Halsted, John Franklin
Halsted, Richard Carlton
Hansen, Christian Martin
Hanson, Fred
Hanson, John
Hanson, Nels Peter
Harris, Frank Parks
Harris, Isaac
Hartshorn, Jonathan Thomas
Hartwell, Calvin, P. M.
Hartwell, John Lovekin
Hauser, William Thomas
Hayes, Arthur Harry
Hayes, Orren Henry,· P . M.
Heiss, William Albert
Herrmann, Louis
Hess, Bruce Stanley
Hickmore, John William
Hill, Alfred Julius
Hlavin, Louis
Hoag, Thomas Leggett
Holloway, Andrew
Holloway, George ,
Hoover, Geo. Elliott
Hoover, Samuel Francis
Hoover, William F.
Hopper, Joseph Edward
Horrell, John Alexander
Hotaling, Henry C.
Hovey, Frederick V.
Hubinger, John Adams, P. M.
Huff, Lucius Johnson
Hughes, Charles
Hughes, James Barr
Hundrup, John Peter
Hupfer, George Philip, P. M.
Ingalls, George Robie
Jarvis, Lucius Emerson
Jewell, Isaac
Johnson, Albert Ezekiel
Jones, George Danforth

Jones, Lewis Peck
Jones, Lucien Corydon.
Jones, William Asbury
Jung, John Frederick
Kennan, Robert Case
Killgore, Albert Russell
King, Charles Lee
Klock, Aaron Robert
Knapp, Howard Lee
Kuhn, Henry Gustave
Lancaster, Edgar Freemont
Lancaster, Thomas Morgan
Lane, David Courtney
Laspada, Joseph
Laspada, Louis
Leach, George A.
Lee, James Longbotham
Leech, Cha·rles Holt
Leith, Leslie Wilkinson
Lowman, Zachariah Henry
Lusby, John Randolph
Manning, Charles Dewey
Manning, Frank Robert
March, James Nelson
Marsh, Norman Foote
Masters, Moses Marion
McAdam, James
McAdam, Robert
McDonald, John
McDowell, Norman Dick
McDowell, Robert Snyder
McGregory, William Whitney
McLachlan, James
McPherson, James Cullen
Meacham, Albert
Menning, Charles Edward
Mercer, Albert, P. M.
Metcalf, Carl Ostrom
Metcalf, Richard Lee, P. M.
Meyer, Henry William
Michener, Edwin
Miller, Rollin Hurlburt
Mills, Cyrus Lincoln
Mills, Frederick Milton
Mills, John Stevenson

389

390

Mills, Karl Kent
Moody, Elmer Isaac
Morrison, Charles James
Morrow, Walter
Munroe, John Wm.
Myers, Charles K.
Meyers, Harry Eugene
Nay, Earl Warren
Nay, Edward Oscar, P. M.
Newell, Harley Foster
Newman, George Weller
Nickerson, Herman Mansfield
Norris, Charles Henry
Nosworthy, William Samuel
Nuss, William Benry
Ogan, Frank Clarence
Ogier, Walter William
Osborne, Edward Sylvester
Packard, Elmer Charles
Paine, George Albert
Parker, David Niles
Parker, James Edward
Pashgian, John Sarkis
Peaslee, John
Peck, Harry Graham
Peters, David Akard
Pierce, Anthony R.
Plant, John Henry
Prince, Purley Ogden
Puffer, Alphonso Crosby
Quast, Herman Theo.
Raftery, Michael Loftus
Ramel, Henry, P. M.
Reed, George Warren
Reynolds, Isaac Julian
Rhodes, Hinman
Rice, Peter P., P. M.
Richardson, Warren Josiah
Roche, Albert Wilson
Rood, John. Thompson
Royce, Edward Horace
Rush, George Phillip
Sandham, Frederick
Schneider, William Charles
Schoeller, Henry Lewis

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Scott, Calvin Luther
Seabury, John E.
Seaman, William W.
Sewall, Spencer Kirby
Shaw, Albert
Shelhamer, Clarence Albert
Short, James Curtis Sisson, John Francis
Smith, William Tecumseh Sherman
Smith, Willis Hayes
Smiley, Sumner Francis
Snudden, William Henry
Spencer, Alvah Jacob
Stanley, Charles Newton
Starrett, Robert Henry
Steadman, Levergn John
Steiff, Jacob
Steil, Peter
Stephens, Arthur Joseph
Stevens, Charles Warren
Stevens, Ki~ley Noble
Stone, Leonard Allison
Sutliff, Virgil Renaldo
Taylor, Lewis Richard, P. M.
Taylor, Richard, P. M.
Taylor, William D.
Thomas, Cyrus Backus
Thomson, Henry Martin
Thorns, Alfred
Thurston, Albert Greene
Todd, Isaac Newton
Tom, George Marion
Tousley, Joseph Hawley
Tracy, Coyle John
Tracy, James Dawson, P. M.
Turbett, Albert Steel
Turk, John
Turner, William D.
Tuttle, Henry Elihu
Tyler, Eckford Dodds
Underwood, Francis Marion
Vail, David
Van Buskirk, ·Morris Henry
Van Etten, Albert Sanford
Vedder, William Henry

Vesper, Arthur Eugene
Vlier, Benjamin
Wadsworth, Hiram Warren
Wagner, John George
Wakeley, William Henry
Washburn, Sherman
Weaver, George Rasmas
Webster, Edwin Casey
Webster, Thomas Henry
Week, Charles Erastus
W erden, Stephens Collins
Welsh, Joseph
Weston, G~orge Edward
White, Edwin Matelantl
White, James Strothard

391

Whitsall, Oliver Cunningham
Williams, Robert Adrian
WilliaI1U1, Romayne, P. M.
Wilson, John Irwin
Windham, William Spencer
Wisehart, Richmond
Wood, Almon
Wood, Isaac Newton
Wood, William Henry
Woodbury, Elmer Franklin
Wright, George Elmer
Wright, Russell Clifford
Wright, Walter Savage
Yearian, Carl Hayes
Young, Frank Nathan
-272
WITHDRAWN:

Griffith, Edmund Wm.
Miller, Jacob

Parks, Ion Watson
Patten, Frank Bunnie
Rose, Henry Howard
DIED:

Bisbee, Alonzo E.
Lowe, John Orion
Nay, Oscar Thomas

..

Norton, Edward Gray
Perrin, Leonard
Sawyer, Lyman M.

ANCHOR LODGE, No. 273.
Compton, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Clarence A. Dickison, Master,
John B. Norton, Senior Warden,
George Wash. Bryson, !. Warden,
Hannon J. Mayo, Treasurer,
William R. Mayo, Secretary,
John J. Morton, Chaplain,

James Monroe Mayo, Senior Deacon,
.................... .Junior Deacon,
John L. Amlin, Marshal,
T. C. Mayo, Steward,
.................... . Steward,
Geo. Stanley Raycraft, Tyler.

MEMBERS:

Amlin, John L.
Atchison, Joseph Andrew
Briggs, Robert Redman

Bryson, George Wash., P. M.
Burritt, Charles Lewis
Camp, Arthur James

ROSTER.

392

Catey, George Washington
Conklin, John Raymond
Copeland, John Charles
Cox, Robert Lee
Crum, Dwight Mark,· P. M.
Davie, William Seymour
Decker, John
Dickison, Clarence Anson
Dimler, Joseph Henry
Duke, Jamee M.
Elliott, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Epperson, Harry Valentine
Epperson, John William
Frew, Will L.
Gaines, William Albert
Gunby, Edward Smith
Hauselman, John Wesley, P. M.
Harshman, Nelson Sylvester
Haynes, Emmett Sylvester
Holcombe, Arthur Lowell
Iftiger, Hugo Julius
Imbler, Walter W ebster
Jacobs, John Franklin
Kinkaid, Ralph Eugene
Kratzer, Benjamin Richard
Lewie, Edward William

Lewie, Harry
Lord, Alex. Napoleon
Mayo, Harmon Jeff, P. M.
Mayo, James Monroe
Mayo, William Riley
Martin, Peter P.
Mccomas, Asbury
Mercer, Preston Reese, P . M.
Miller, Alvin Wash.
Miller, Erwin
Mitchell, Leroy Frye
Moore, Elmer Ellsworth
Morton, John Jay, P. M.
Norton, John Bryant
Proctor, James Buchanan
Raycraft, George Stanley, P. M.
Rennolds, Isaac Johnson, P. M.
Shaffer, John
Shamrak, William
Smith, Richard James
Stahl, William
Vance, James Joseph
Watts, Seymour Locke
Welton, Arthur Foote
Williams, Justus Herbert
Zadock, Gustave Adolph
-58

ROSTER.

Alexander, Siegfried
Aron, Isidor
Balaam, Arthur George
Ball, Jessie Combs
Banks, Elwin Jamee
Beckett, John Archer
Beckett, Lemuel James
Bickell, Allan Leslie
Brieger, Adolph
Brown, Adam, P. M.
Byers, Randolph
Clark, Charles Sammis
Cook, Robert Mahlon
Cook, William Thomas, P . M.
Conrad, William Arthur
Denham, Morrie
Dower, William Henry
English, Frank A.
Gale, DeWitt Clinton
Gilliam, John William
Grieb, George
Guild, Henry Grant
Hawkins, Arthur Wheelock
Heinrich, Johannes Richard

393

MEMBERS:
Ide, Bela Clinton, P. M.
Ide, George Pitt, P . M.
Keown, Thomae H.
Kinney, John Seth
Linn, Howard M.
Miller, John Nicholas, P. M.
Nicholson, John R.
Noble, Clare Shipman
Parish, John Edgar
Phillips, Adolph
Phillips, Samuel Sampson
Phoenix, Fred James
Poole, James
Poole, William Clark
Reinike, John Ralph
Schwob, John C.
Short, Benjamin English
Silva, William
Smith, William John
Squires, Clement C.
Waterman, William Fred
Werner, John William
Whittemore, Amos C., P. M.

-47
DIED:

Heath, Clinton

DIED:
Wood, Christian Kine

Fink, Charles

ARROYO LODGE, No. 274.

OAKDALE LODGE, No. 275.

Arroyo Grande, San Luis Obispo County.

Oakdale, Stanislaus County.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Clare Shipman Noble, Master,
John Nicholas Miller, Senior Deacon,
Johannes R. Heinrich, Sen. Warden, George Grieb, Junior Deacon,
Allan Leslie Bickell, Junior Warden, Benjamin English Short, Marshal,
George Pitt Ide, Treasurer,
Adam Brown, Steward,
John William Gilliam, Secretary,
William Henry Dower, Steward,
Thomas H. Keown, Chaplain,
John Ralph Reinike, Tyler.

John Louis Hennemuth, Master,
George Nicholas Pfarr, Sen. Deacon,
Darcy Edgar Lee, Senior Warden, Joel Leople Prouty, Junior Deacon,
I'lerbert David Murray, J. Warden, Dennis Burdett Warfield, Marshal,
Jol.m Hubbel, Treasurer,
George Washington Wigley, Steward,
Alfred B. Haslacher, Secretary,
Frederick James Martin, Steward,
Ebenezer Foster Crabtree, Tyler.

394

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Baker, Sanford Chase
Laughlin, Francis William
Bardo~ Levi
Le Clerk, Sebastine Theo.
Barton, Henry Clay
Leitch, Arthur Lee
Barnett, Derby H.
Lee, Darcy Edgar
Benson, Richard Gray
Mann, Martin Van Buren, P. M.
Bentley, Isom Hilliard
Martin. Frederick James
Booth, James Godfrey
Meyer, Frederick Henry
Broughton, James Richard
Meyer, Sidney George
Bratten, Thomas Wilson
Mulroy, John Henry
Clark, John Henry
Murry, Herbert David
Coley, John Ambrose
Pfarr, George Nichols
Crabtree, Ebenezer Foster
Prouty, Joel Leople
Dorsey, Thomas Beale
Richardson, Thomas
Endicott, Elmer M.
Rickart, David, P. M.
Gilbert, Amos Lawrence
Shackford, Henry Harrison
Gilbert, Clarence Irving
Stearns, Geo. Francis
Hall, William Wheeler
Thompson, James Goodwin
Hall, William Solon
Tulloch, Earl Patterson
Haslacher, Alfred B.
Wann, Silas M.
Haslacher, Jacob, P. M.
Warfield, Dennis Burdett, P. M.
Heiskell, Jefferson Davis
Weaver, Henry Edward
Hennemuth, John Louis, P. M.
Wigley, George Washington
Hess, George Washington
Wigley, Jefferson
Hubble, John
Wood, Alonzo Thomas
Johns, Thomas William
Wood, Charle11 Calvin, P. M.
Kahn, Joseph H.
Wood, William Henry
-52

MEMBERS:

I

WITHDRAWN:
Bledsoe, Alfred Leroy
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT O.F DUES:
Bentley, Richard H.
Owen, John Hamilton
Warner, Joseph

SELMA LODGE, No. 277.
Selma, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Mark Alvin Sawrie, Master,
Charles Thomas Elliott, Sen. Deacon,
Chester Dusy, Senior Warden
Herman J. Lohman, Junior Deacon,
Fred Drew, Junior Warden, '
John Joy Vanderburg, Marshal,
David S. Snodgrass, Treasurer,
Julian Wiley Hudson, Steward,
Newell Harlan, Secretary,
George F. Drew, Steward,
Flavius J. Wright, Tyler.

•

Albrecht, Albert
Allen, George William
Allen, Parris, P. M.
Bachtold, Christian
Barnett, William
Barnwell, Robert Wm.
Berry, Clarence J.
. Bixter, Adam
Blackman, Charles Monroe
Borchers, Hermann Henry
Branson, Oscar Edward
Burton, Cornelius N.
Byrne, Joseph B.
Compton, Warren
Cutler, Herbert Nelson
Cutler, William Cheney
Cohn, Samuel
Cook, Henry Taylor
Cooke, William Rutledge
Davies, John Foster
Drew, Fred
Drew, George Freeman
Duey, Chester
Edgar, William Taylor
Elliott, Ch.a rles Thomas
Gibbs, Roy Crittenden
Gilbert, Julius Langdon, P. M.
Gilreath, Marshall Alex.
Harlan, Newell
Hinkson, Richard Summers, P. M.
Hoover, Preston P.
Howell, Lawson Joel
Hudson, Julian Wiley
Johnson, Ingoan Andl'ew
Kilburn, Charles Menzo
Kimberlin, Ernest Marion
Kaarsburg, Henry Mauritz Hogan
Leon, George Allen
Lewis, Edward Adolph
Lohman, Herman Joseph
McConnell, Samuel J.
Messersmith, Joseph
Mite.hell, James William, P. M.
Mitehell, John Lair, P. M.

Morris, Charles
Murray . Charles F.
Palen, Bino Carlisle
Pallidini, Benjam~n Ronaldo
Palmer, Roy Henry
Paulson, Edward
Peters, Henry Frank
Powell, John Day
Pugh, Aaron Uriah
Pugh, Edward M.
Pugh, James Vercoe
Pugh, John S.
Pugh, Perry Allen
Ricketts, Walter S.
Robinson, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Rose, James Edwin
Rosenberger, Guy Walker
Sargeant, Charles Black
Sawrie, Mark Alvin
Schuwandt, Charles
Scott, George Milton
Shafer, William' Herbert
Shannon, William Russell
Sherwood, Charles Henry
Skagga, James A.
Smith, Albert Anderson
Smith, George Spencer
Smith, Jam.es Collins
Stammers, William Robert
Stammers, William Robert
Snodgrass, David S., P. M.
Stearns, Orville W.
Steinwand, Oscar William
Stroud, John Allen
Townsend, Eli Sheridan
Townsend, Isaac M.
Vanderburgh, John Joy
Vincent, Manuel, P. M.
Wagner, James Daniel, P. M.
Wagner, James Holliday, P. M.
Wasgatt, Cornelius
W eseman, George
Wood, Charles Robert, P. M.
Wootan, John Thomas

3\15

396

ROSTER.

Wiley, John L.
Wright, Flavius Joseph
Wright, Jacob Henry

ROSTER.

Yeargin, John
Yost, William Antone

-93
WITHDRAWN:

Brown, David E.
Esterbrook, Joseph S.
Garrett, Levi

Loomis, Asa Bird
Maxwell, Eugene Taylor
*Pallandini, Antonio C.
Redenbough, Milton
DIED:
Lewald, Samuel

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA LODGE, No. 278.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Herbert Lemuel Cornish, Master,
Frank Hartley Small, Senior Deacon,
Edward Byron Spencer, S. Warden, Earl Walter· Muller, Junior Deacon,
Adelbert Starr Abbott, !. Warden, Henry Aufdemkamp, Marshal,
Robert Wankowski, Treasurer,
James Gustave Scarborough, Stew'rd,
Warren Edward Rowley, Secretary, Caleb Amos Yarnell, Steward,
J. S. V. DeC. Thomson, Chaplain, Milton Cephas Fordham, Tyler,
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Adelbert Starr
Abbott, Frederick William
Adams, Hugh White, Jr.
Ainsworth, Frank Kenley
Alexander, Harrison Babcock
Allen, Charles Carroll, P. M.
Allen, Dane Lorenzo
Alles, Fred Lind, P. M.
Anderson, Charles Sherman, P. M.
Anderson, Horace Philip
Andrews, Chas. Gordon
Arend, William Frank
Armstrong, George
Arnold, Jesse Houston
Arnold, William Ralph
• Affiliated during the year.

Ashton, Charles
.aufdemkamp, Henry
Austin, Amos Mack
Austin, John Comeby Wilson
Bacon, Robert Harold
Bagley, Arthur Eugene
Bailie, Samuel Girvin
Baird, William Smillie
Baker, Charles Minton
Baker, Fred Linne!
Baldwin, Cornelius Vanoy
Baldwin, George Everett
Barfoot, Robert Alex. William
Barnard, Frank Steele
Barnes, Frank Amos

Barnes, Harvey Stevens
Barnes, James Whitney
Barnwell, Walter Galt
Bartholowsky, Johannes
Barton, Thomas William
Belcher, Henry Arthur
Benz, William
Berg, Christian Gottlieb
·Berger, Andrew S.
Bessing, Theo.
Bicknell, Frederick Thompson
Biehl, Nicholas
Bilicke, Albert Clay
Billington, Theophilus
Blades, Paul Harcourt
Blaisdell, Mylon John
Bleecker, Henry Lloyd
Bloeser, John Condit
Bonfilio, Nicholas
·Boone, Andrew Jackson
Boone, Blair Ford
Booth, Franklin
Booth, Willis Holyoake
Bordner, Isaac
Boshyshell, Edward Parris
Bosler, Thompson, P. M.
Boucher, Joseph
Bowen, John Wesley
Bowker, Walter King
Boyle, James Luke
Boynton, Fred Wesley
Bradbeer, James Hudson
Braden, Frederick Bassett
Bradish, Avery Jackson
Braly, Arthur Hughes
Braly, Harold Hyde
Braly, John Hyde
Brauer, Adolph Karl
Brent, Edward James
Bridges, Herbert Frank
Brink, John Edward
Brock, George Alex.
Brode, Alex. Charles
Brode, Walter Charles
Bronson, Roy DeWitt

Brookman, Arthur, P. M.
Brown, Fred Winfield
Brown, Henry Lee .
· Brown, Walter Elbridge
Bryant, Norman Lorenzo
Bryon, David Parker
Bryson, Charles William
Bryson, Frank
Bullard, Frank Dearborn
Bullis, William Shufelt
Bumiller, Arthur William
Bundrem, Howard Graham
Bunnell, Charles Eugene Dewey
Burgwald, Hugo Mathias
Burnett, Frank Wilbur
Burns, John W.
Butler, Sidney Aleut
Butler, Sidney Tortelus
Cadwalader, George Downing
Cake, George Myers
"
Callahan, Walter
Callender, Harry Rea
Camp bell, Charles
Campbell, Chas. Nicholas
Campbill, Edward Franklin
Campbell, John Mis
Cannon, John Stevens
Carr, Joseph Elmer
Case, Alonzo Beecher
Case, Charles Hempstead
Cates, Horace Getchell
Catey, Stacey Francis
Chaffey, Andrew McCord
Chandler, Harry
Chappelear, Henry Stewart
Chase, Lucius Kurtz
Christopher, John Francis
Church, Benjamin Franklin
Clark, Harold Francis
Clark, Oliver Perry
Clarke, Frank Brainerd, Jr.
Cleaver, William
Cogswell, William Gardner
Cole, Elmer Ellsworth
Cole, Henry Edmond

1397

398

Coleman, Albert Loring
Coleman, Robert William
Colton, George Frederic ·
Conant, Geor,ge Frederick
Conner, Edward Hurlbut
Conner, Luther Lucien
Conrey, Nathaniel Parrish
Coomber, Henry William
Cooper, Frank J., P. M.
Copp, Andrew James, Jr.
Cornish, Herbert Lemuel
Corwin, Wm. Bassett
Coulter, Thomas Jeffei:son
Cox, Emit J.
Crabill, Simeon Wolford
Crandall, Shannon
Culver, Alex. Stephens
Cummings, Bartholomew Peter
Cunningham, Frank R.
CunninghaJ¥, John Calvin
Dahl, Christian James
Dake, George Daniel
Darling, Charles Edward
Davids, Mark Abraham
Davis, Harvey
Davisson, John Henry
Day, James Anderson
Day, Robert Verne
Dearth, Leonard
Dennis, Albert Lee
Denton, Eugene Elias
Detmers, Frederick Wm. Adolph
Dewey, James Henry
Dickson, Clarence Bishop
Dillin, John
Dixon, Charles Clark
Dodge, Shailor Calver
Donnell, John Tilden
Dorris, Charles Wesley
Dow; Herbert Gruby
Driscoll, Timothy
Drought, Robert
Duffie, John Jefferson
Duffill, Harry
Durgin, Walter Clements

ROSTER.
Dupuy, James Robert, P. M.
Dutcher, Claude Elmer
Dyer, Trusten Polk, P. M.
Eakins, Herbert Brown
Earle, Lucien
Easton, Geo. Blakeley
Eckstrom, Albert Axel
Edwards, John William
Ed wards, Leoland Cloise
Eichelberger, Harry Martin
Eikenbary, Sidney Joseph
Eisenmayer, Walter Graeser
Ellis, Henry Bertrand
Elsom, Robert Wesley
Emery, Robert Dudley
Emmons, Elijah Alex.
Ennis, Charles Wesley
Esdor, William Henry
Everett, Newton Baldwin
Fairchild, John Anthony
Falvella, John
Farnsworth, Willis Cleveland
Ferbert, John C.
Fernald, Benjamin Walter
Ferris, Harvey Olmsted
Feuerborn, Edward Randolph
Field, Benjamin Franklin
Field, Daniel Webster
Finlayson, Frank Graham
Fiscus, Joseph
Fiscus, Marshall
Fiscus, Marshall Elsworth
Fisher, Donnell George
Fitch, George Atkins, P. M.
Ford, Lewis Eugene
Forrester, Edmund Arnold
Forrester, Frank Linnaeus
Forrester, Fred Warren
Fosdick, Archibald Morris
Foshay, James A., P. G. M.
Fox, Joseph Cliffe
Franklin, Edward Joseph
Fredericks, John Donovan
Freeby, Mordecai Paul
Priedgen, Harry Raymond

ROSTER.

'

Frost, Franklin Pierce
Fryman, H!lrmon Christian
Fuller, William Harrison
Fulton, Frank
Gadden, Edward Tad
Gamble, John Davis
Getz, Henry Augustu11
Geissler, Edward August
Gibson, Leo LaForest ·
Gibson, Thomas
Gifford, Charles Levi
Gillespie, Mathew McGill
Gilmore, Edward Watson
Goehring, John George
Golding, Frederick Earnest
Gordon, Christopher McMath
Gordon, Frank Henry
Graham, Edward Hewitt
Granicher, Oswald
Green, Luther Herbert
Greppin, Ernest Henry, P. M.
Guy, Ivester Clark
Hagen, William
Hall, Cornelius Alfred
Hamilton, Harley Erastus
Hamlin, Fred Hanniable
Hammell, Delbert Cool
Hammon, Perey Vernon
Hammond, Watts
Hammond, Wm. Tecumseh Sher.
Hanna, Harry Rogers
Harlan, George, P. M.
Harris, Murray McCheyne
Harrison, George Wright
Harrison, William Henry
Hart, John Wicks
Haskell, Eugene Craddock
Hathaway, Chas. Frederick
Haupt, Paul
Rauser, Henry
Havemann, William
Hayward, Henderson
Hazard, Geo. Emmott
Heber, James Earle
Heffner, Robert Armstrong

Heinemann, Bernard Henry
Heller, Charles Clinton
Hench, William Allison
Henderson, Horace Henry
Henderson, John Blanchard
Henderson, William Augustus
Henry, James Wheaton, P. M.
Hensley, Sylvester Peter
Herron, Fred Irwin
Herron, Rufus Hills
Hess, Orlando Boyd
Hewitt, Roscoe Edwin, P. M.
Hicks, Walter Thomas
Hill, Randolph Wijliam
Hinchcliffe, Chas. Warren
Hines, }'red Amos, P. M.
Hirtz, Nathaniel Frederick
Hoagland, Wm. Wyckoff
Hoffman, Marcus Irven
Holliday, Wm. Harrison
Hollingsworth, William Irving
Holman, Claude Stonum
Hornbeck, Charles, P. M.
Housh, William Harvey
Hovis, Harry Henderson
Hubbard, Ralph Beatty
Hubbard, William Lewis, P. M.
Humphreys, Charles Harkness
Humphreys, William Morgan
Hunsaker, Lycurgus
H utchinson, Edwin Herbert
Hyatt, Henry Lamb
J aekins, Harry
Jacobsen, Christian Frederick
Jeffries, Richard Hoy
Jeffries, Wm. Parrish, P. M.
Jenkins, John Joseph
Johannsen, Franklin George
Johnson, Edward Purcell, Jr.
Johnson, Frank Alexander
Johnson, Frederick Orson
Johnston, John Milton
Johnston, Noble Ellis
Jones, Algernon Sidney
Jones, Everett Gaylord

399

ROSTER.
400

ROSTER.

Jones, Frank Massie
Jones, IIenry Spencer
Jones, John Taylor
Jones, Mark Gordon
Jones, Mattison Boyd
Jones, Richard Girard
Jones, Robert Freeman
Kardell, Benjamin Franklin
Kay, Ilarry Bailey
Keller1 Will Edward
Kelley, Richard Wash.
Kelly, Francis Asbury
Kelsey, Arthur Louis
Kenny, Robert Wolfenden
Keohane, John William
Kinney, Arthur Wilson
Kirkland, Derwentwater
Kitchen, George Washington
Kitchin, Philip
Kohlmeier, Benjamin
Koster, Eugene Will
Koyer, Arthur Sheppard
Kramer, IIenry . Jacob
Krueger, Charles George
Kubach, Christian John
Kunow, Charles August
Kyte, George Irwin, p. M.
Lammert, Fred William
Lampshire, John Oxnam
Langdon, Frederick Sylvester
Laughlin, IIerbert Sisson
Laughlin, IIomer, Jr.
Laux, Carl
Lawless, William Joseph
!:.awe, William IIenry
Lebus, Prentice
Lee, Bradner Wells
Lee, Fred Leonard
Lehman, Charles Joseph
Lindley, IIervey, P. M.
Lindley, Samuel Kingston
Lindley, Walter
Locke, Chades Erlwin
Logan, George Burket
Long, Charles II.

Long, James William, P. M.
Longyear, Willis Douglas
Lovett, William Watson, P . M.
Lnckel, Louis
Lynch, Ira Owen
Lyndall, Charles Pennv
MacDonald, Jesse Jua~
Mackay, George Grant
Macnab, Arthur Campbell
• Macready, Benjamin
Maeder, William Richard
Malke, Edward James
Malone, John
Manuel, Franklin F.
Marden, IIenry William
Marden, Leo Wallace
Marden, Reo Burnham
Markham, Monroe
Marsh, Robert
Mart, James Jackson
Martin, Austin Oliver
Mason, Oliver Arland
Mathews, John ·Robert
Mathuss, Zack Duncan
McClurkin, William John
McCoilough; Alex. Millard F.
McComas, Frederick Bernard
McCoy, Albert Barnes
Mccutcheon, Archie Boggs
McEwen, Charles Roland
Mcintosh, William P.
McKee, Milton
McLean, Daniel Alexander
McMillan, Basil James
McNeely, James Thomas
Mead, Willis IIoward
Medlar, John Abraham
Mercereau, John D.
Merrill, Joseph Lane
Merryweather, Charles
Merwin, Andrew IIomer
MeMsmore, Frank IIiram
Middleton, Ralph Dodsworth
Miles, Charles Sweeting
Miles, Nelson Appleton

Pauly, Edward Stanley
Millar, David Servis
Pauly, Frederick Nye, P. M.
Millard, Jay Bird
Peairs, IIoward Allen
Miller, Charles Francie
Pearson, Harry Ernest
Miller, Frank Lee
Pease, Sherman
Miller, Homer Ketler
Peasley, Andrew
. Miller, Nicholas N.
Peck, Daniel Gager
Mitchell, George
Pendell, Charles Elisha
Mitchell, Robert
Percy, Ilarry Lord
Morgan, Franklin Llewellyn
pea;ty, James Millard
Monlux, John B.
Pfaffinger, Frank Xavier
Montgomery, Isaac Shelby, P. M.
Phelps, John Wilson
Morrison, Wm. Gentry
Phillips, Lee Andrew
Mott, Albert Clark
Phillips, William
Moulton, IIoratio Frank
Piedmont, Louis
Moyse, John Ira
Pierce,. Darwin Willson
Mueller, Earl Walter
Pierce, Edward Timothy
Mueller, Oscar Charles
Plummer, Amos Weston
Murphy, William Warren, P. M.
Preston, William Ilolyoke
Murray, Alexander Wilson
Price, Arthur Blake
Mushet, Edward Robert
Prince, Frederick William
Myrick, Nathaniel Willie
Prince, George IIenry
Nagel, George Edward
Putnam, Charles Edward
Nauerth, Jacob
Putnam, Fred Barnes
Nelson, Nelue Paul
Rapp, William
Neubauer, Frank
Raze, Arthur Eldridge
Newell, Ilenry Temple
Read, William Charles
Newman, Emil
Ready, Russell Wilbert
Newton, Edwarci Payson
Reba.rd, Eugene Mays
Noble, George Oscar
Rector, Robert Lee
Nourse, Charles Oren
Reed, Willis Johnson
0 'Donnell,· Thomas Arthur
Reese, John Wesley
Off, John William Arnold
Reid, Jam~s Arthur
O'Neil, Albert Sidney
Reynolds, Charles Frederick
O'Reilly, Thomas William
Rice, Justus William
Orme, IIenry Sayre, P. G. M.
Rice, Robert Lincoln
Osborn, John
Richardson, Joseph
Osborne, IIenry Zenas, P. M.
Rfohardson, William Weise
O.wen, Frank Dale
Richert, Arno Segin
Owens, Madison ·Townsend, P. M.
Roberson, :John Calhoun
Pahl, Peter Christian IIeinrich
Roberts, William Chalmer
Patson, Loxley Rhees
Robertson, Ernest
Parsons, Arthur Mervil
Robinson, Ray D.
Pascoe, Thomas
Rogers, Albert Clark
Patterson, Wilson Campbell
Rommel, Edward David
Paulding, James Francie
26

401

402

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Rose, Wm. Edward
Smith, Cornelius Emery
Ross, Frederick William
Smith, Fred Maltby
Rowley, Edwin Silas
Smith, Horace Osbun
Rowley, Warren Edward, P. M.
Smith, Norman Eugene
Royse, Jeremy
Smurr, John Randolph
Rozell, David Rightmire
Snyder, Meredith Pinxton
Ruddy, George Drake
Somarindyck, George
Rule, Ferdinand Kenneth
Spaulding, Frank Leverett
Russell, Howard Marvin
Spence, William Glenn
Sale, Howard Malcolm
• Spencer, Edward Byron
Sargent, Edwin William
Spencer, Richard
Savage, Stephen Decatur
Spinks, Andrew Mosley
Scarborough, James Gustave
Spinks, Mosley Enoch
Scarborough, William Byron, P. M. Spinks, Wallace Humphrey
Schaefer, Henry
Sproule, Isaac Henry
Schaffer, Jacob, Jr.
Spruance, L ewis J. Clauson
Behave, Joseph
Squire, Arthur Mosely
Schmidt, Edward
Stanley, Edwin Kimble
Schneider, George Henry
Stanton, Joseph L eighton
. Schoder, Howard Joseph
Starkweather, Charles H enry
Schoder, Joseph
Starr, Joseph Lee
Scott, Charles Otis, P. M.
Starr, Stanley S.
Scott, Henry
Stephens, William
Scriver, Robert McDonald
Stephens, William Dennison
Seaman, William Washington, P. M. Stetson, Albert L.
Seeber, Cornelius Wright
Stevens, Benjamin Francis
Seeley, James Wesley
Stevens, Roy
Selby, Lemuel Julian
Stewart, Victor Baldwin
Shannon, William Alexander
Strasburg, Edward
Sharpe, John
Summers, James Alex.
Shaw, Hartley
Talmage, James Clark
Shaw, Lucien
Tars, N athan Winship
Sherer, Edward T.
Tate, Cyrus Francis Steele
Sherer, Henry Emanuel
Taylor, Horace Noble
Sherman, Moses Hazeltine
Teed, Freeman Golding, P. M.
Sherwood, William Franklin
Thomson, John Scott Vance DeC.
Shives, Alexander
Thomson, Robert Mossman
Simms, John Harker
Thompson, Chester Weav er
Sinsabaugh, Simpson McC.
Thompson, Frederick William
Skilling, Chauncey Fitch
Thompson, Hartj" Oliver
Skinner, Alden Webst er
Thompson, Omer Cones
Small, Frank Hartley
Thorpe, Lewis Sanborn
Smart, George Joseph
Tomen ey, Peter Patrick
Smith, Charles A.
Treen, Rupert de George
Smith, Conrad
Trobeck, John August

'

Trueworthy, John Wesley
·T ruitt, Charles Leslie
Upright, Oscar
Urmston, John Keck
Valentine, William Lueas
Van Brunt, William
Van Culin, Trabue
Van Doren, John Suydam
VanNorman, Edgar Vernon
Vaughn, John William
Vieira, George Joseph
Von Homeyer, Albert
Waddington, William
Wade, Reuben Alex. Slavin
Wadhams, William .Jesse
Walker, Hugh Kelso
Walker, Julius Randolph
Walker, Samuel Millard
Walton, Charles Strong
W ankowski, Robert
Warden, Charles Dusten
Watson, George Samuel
Webber, Charles Sumner
Webster, Stephen Merritt
Weid, Otto Johannes Munk
Weller, Dana Reid, P. M.
Wells, Gui.lford Wiley
Wetterauer,. Andrew P eter J.
Whaley, Fra ncis John
Alfonso, H erbert Dennis
Clar')i::, William Alton
Fox, Chas. James, Jr.
Lerrigo, George

•

Wheeler, Edgar True
Wheeler, Horace Marcellus
White, Charles Henry
White, John Edward
Whitson, Levi H enry
Whittier, Mericos Hector
Wier, Charles
Wigmore, Francis Marion
Wigmore, George Herbert
Wigmore, John
Willard, Charles Dwight
Williams, Albert Scudamore
Williams, Joseph Franklin
Willman, Chas. Gustave
Wilton, George Robert
Wing, Horace Benjamin
Winston, James Wallace
Wood, Francis Gideon
Wood, Samuel Grosvenor
Woodward, William John
Wright, Gilbert Sol
Wuerker, Otto Leon
Yarnell, Caleb Amos
Yates, James Pagden'
Young, Jacob Clark
Young, John William
Zaiser, Lewis G.
Zaiser, Oscar H enry
-628
Zuchelli, John B.

WITHDRAWN:
McCoy, David Allen
McCr ea, Thomas P.
Stagg, Edward H.
Tre(islar, Sidney P.
Willia ms, George

SUSPENDED FOR N ON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Matson, Wilfred H., Jr.
Bak er, Arthur Eaton
Mat thews, Winfield S.
Connor, John Alex.
McArthur, Wm. Taylor
H awes, Arthur L eland
Truitt, Charles Leslie
Beck, Samuel James
Casterline, Wm. McGuffy
Eskey, Milton Newton ·

403

DIED:
Hewes, Jonathan N.
McCullough, John B.
Smith, H enry Ryerson

404

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

HANFORD LODGE, No. 279.

Howard, William Harrison
Howland, Clarence Sears
Hoyt, Homer James
Isaac, Frederick Neville
James, Reuben Sterrett
Johns, Zachariah David
King, Arthur Dale
King, Edgar B.
Kuney, Harry Albert
Lacey, Orra Mell
Lane, Alpheii.s Wilbour
Latimer, Delmar Hood
Lee, William Tomas
Lens, Lodewyk Clement
Lewis, Benjamin Francis
Long, Robert Adam
Lovelace, Thomas James, P. M.
McCord, James W.
McCord, William P.
McCreary, John Edward
McQuiddy, Thos. Jefferson, P. M.
Mullen, Samuel SurlP.e
Musgrave, Robert Wm., P . M.
Nelson, Harold Mann
Newman, Leo. Disraeli
Newport, Fred Tate
Noel, Henry Hamlyn
Payton, John Welby, P. M.
Pickerill, Ernest Fred
Powell, James Henry
Price, Albert Ruskin ·
Price, Alberto Bell, P. M.
Rafailovich, Nicklas M.
Ramsey, John Wilson

Hanford, Kings County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Delmas Ho?d Latimer, Master,
Harry Vallejo Brenton, Senior Dea.,
Samuel Whitson Hall, Senior War., Arthur F. Hammond, Junior DeacotJ,
Schuyler M: Rose~berger, Junior W., James Curtis Ensign, Marshal,
Stephen Bright Hicks, Treasurer,
Wm. Francis Bernstein Steward
Ado~ph G. Dollenmayer, Secretary, Leo D. Newman, Stew~rd,
'
Lewis C. Dunham, Chaplain,
Henry Edward Reuck, .Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, Arthur Bailey
Cross, Charles Marion
Ayers, Amos Melzar, P. M.
Cunningham, Francis, P. M.
Ayers, Andrew Mansfield
Dillon, Thomas Fuller
Barber, George Wilson
Dollenmayer, A. Gustav, P . M.
Barton, Herman Dany
Dopkins, Joseph Henry
Bernstein, William Francis
Downing, Robert Jesse
Biddle, Samuel Edward, Jr.
Dunham, Lewis C.
Bingham, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Ellis, Bayard Boyd
Booker, Sanford
Ellis, Richard Voris
Boudreau, Yung Hubert
Ensign, James Curtis, P. M.
Boulware, Alex. Stockton
Farmer, Milton Thomas
Brenton, Harry Vallejo
Farnsworth, Charles Clark, Jr.
Brennon, John Abram
Furby, Charles Edwin
Brown, Charles Rose
Furby, John Charles
Brown, Harry Pfister
Goodrich, George Edwin
Brown, William Herbert
Greatwood, Frederick Edward
Bulloch, James Lyndon
Gu:i:nee, Bruster Smith
Butler, Chester Orville
Hall, George Arthur, P. M.
Butler, Rudolph Rey
Hall, John Ewell
Budinger, Philip Leidy
Hall, Samuel Whitson
Camp, William Henry, P. M.
Hammond, Arthur F.
Chastine, Charles Edward
Heathcote, Rennie James
Chittenden, Lyman Sylvester
Hendricks, Henry Thomas
Chrisman, Archibald Yell
Herrod, John
Clow, Ora T.
Hicks, Stephen Bright
Cooper, Calvin Savage
Hickman, James Oscar
Cooper, Silas Halsey
Hight, Frank Robert, P. M.
Cosper, Elias Truman
Hobler, Charles James
Crigler, John Christopher
Hobson, Rufus Asbery
Crowell, Abner Buel
Hochstrasser, Rudolf
Crowell, Chester Charles
Hord, Robert · Thomas

•

"

Charles, Wm. Bryant
Clow, Burton Roderick
Ensign, Henry Wilson

Raney, Arthur Leon
Raney, Sheldon Johnstone
Rea, John
Rehoefer, Samuel
Reuck, Henry Edward
Ritchie, Isaac Andrew
Robertson, James Shaw
Ross, Fred Darwin
Ross, John Patchen
Rosenberger, Schuyler Mont.
Sanborn, Walter Andrew
Schueler, Henry John
Sensabaugh, John Samuel
Sharp, Benjamin V.
Sherzer, Simeon Newman
Shields, Fred Rex
Slight, George
Smith, Judd
Steele, Francis John
Sullivan, John Longwell, P . M.
Tandrow, James Andrew
Taylor, Julius Calisto
ThQmpson, Samuel Alexander
Tiffany, Charles Henry
Trewhitt, Loyd Crary
Trewhitt, Wayne Douglas
Walp, James Lincoln Duff
Webster, Cassius Monroe
•
Weems, George Melvin, P. M.
White, Royal Georg11
Wilkinson, James Price
Wilson, Frank J.
Young, Edmund Ellsworth, P. M.
Young, John Wesley
-130

WITHDRAWN:
Hickman, Frank
Page, Edward Joseph
Sharp, Craigie

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Crowell, Leo Calvin
Crowell, Letus N.
Clary, Alvin Ray
Dodds, William H.
Hall, James Leroy

405

DIED:
Mills, Richard Francis
Rhoads, John Wm.
Traut, Henry Arthnr

.'
406

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MADERA LODGE, No. 280.

:Rosenthal, Nathan
:Rummelsburg, Charles
Schmitz, John William
Secara, Jos11ph A.
Skaggs, Samuel Lee
Spitzer, .Joseph James
Skaggs, Allan Alexander
Sledge, Levin Lane
Sledge, Strudwick
Speegle, Andrew Lee
Stahl, William
Sweeney, Charles Darwin

Madera, Madera County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Joseph A. Secara, Master,
John Royal Richardson, Senior Dea.
George Ford Eldridge, S enior War., John Bryan High, ltmior Deacon,
Geo. Adelbert Clark, Junior Warden, George Brown, Marshal,
Return Roberts, Treasurer,
Pollard Franklin Vandiveer, Steward,
Joseph James Spitzer, Secretary,
Edward David Wolters Steward
Donald Cameron McKenzie, Tyler.
'
'
Hosmer, .James Abel
Hughes, William Marshall
Hughes, Kenneth Leach
Hunter, Willie Wilkin Wood
.James, Reuben Sterrett
.Jones, George Washington
.Jones, .John Marion
Ladd, Monroe .Jefferson
Laiblin, Christian Henry
Lehrfield, Moses David
Leidig, Donald S.
Logan, Alexander
Luttrell, George McClure
Maze, William Camel
Mccardle, Edwin Mace
McComb, .John
McDonald, Archibald
McKee, .John
McKenzie, Donald Cameron
Newman, .Joseph Emory
Owens, Samuel Gasiway
Parsons, George Gorton
Petty, Charles M.
Radliff, Charles DeWitt
Ramsey, Will Whitten
Richardson, .John Royal
Roberts, Frank P.
Roberts, .John Griffith
Roberts, Return
Dobison, Charles Byron
Roeder, Charles Henry

Thurman, William Bfoodworth
Tooker, Clinton Edward
Tozer, John Emmett
Walde, Henry
Watkins, .John W ellesley
Wilcox, Elmer ElswQrth
Willian;is, Elmer Boyce
Williams, William L.
Wolters, Edward Davii'I
Wooten, Elias Nelson
Wooten, George Drake

-85
WITHDRAWN:

MEMBERS:
Anderson, Henry Clay
Armstrong, Charles Duner
Arondall, Ellsworth
Badger, Charles Taintor
Barker, Delbert Ornello
Bennett, .John
Barnett, .John Robert
Brown, George, P. M.
Brown, William A., P. M.
Byars, Alfred Henry, P. M.
Christiana, Albert Eustace
Clark, George Edelbert
Cochrum, ·Spirling Young
Coi, Elmer Henry
Cox, Wilbur Henry
Curran, .James
Daulton, .John Francis
Downey, Hugh .Joseph
Downey, William G.
Dunlap, .James M ., P. M.
Duy~r, .John
Eastin, Pulaski Clark
Eldridge, George Ford
Eubanks, Charles .James
Gazzolo, Victor
Galbreath, .John William
Giles, Henry
Hall, Merrit .Jordan
Hargrove, Robert Lee, P . M.
He.ly, Levi St. .John
High, .John Bryan, P . M .

407

Reid, Eugene Homer
DIED:
Wilson, Wm. Blayney

Brown, .Pearl Alvey

MOUNT SHASTA LODGE, No. 281.
Anderson, Shasta County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Henry Spann, Master,
Geo. Fred. Shepherd, S enior Deacon,
John L. Kempton, S enior Warden, Arthur C. Burbank, Junior Deacon,
John Calvin Kesler, Junior Warden, John Dudley Dozier, Marshal,
John Franklin Bedford, Treasurer, Joseph Parker Burbank, Steward,
Alvin Dozier, Secre~ary,
Theo. Pleisch, Steward,
Owen Price Noble, Chaplain,
James Alex. Robertson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

•

Anderson, William Somers
Bainbridge, Clarence Edwin
Bedford, James .Franklin, P. M.
Bedford, John Franklin
Bedford, William Wesley
Beecher, James Harvey
Burbank, Arthur Charles, P. M.
Burbank, Joseph Parker
Cassell, Ernest Viv ian
Dales, George Benson
Douglass, Torrence Samuel

Dozier, Alvin, P. M.
Dozier, John Dudley, P. M.
Dunning, M. Lee
Goodman, Charles Hiller
Goodman, Timothy D.
Hainline, Charles Grant
Hawkins, George Edward
Johnson, Harvey Petit
Kempton, .John Lincoln, P. M.
Kesler, .John Calvin
M cN eill, William

\

408

ROSTER.

Munter, Carl, P. M.
Parish, Joseph Franklin
Pleisch, Theodore
Reynolds, Lincoln C.
Robertson, James Alex.
Shanahall., Thadeus W. H., P. M.
Shepherd, George Frederick
Smith, Albert Ferdinand, p, M.

ROSTER.

Spann, Charles Henry, P. M.
Strange, Morris
Stuck, Andrew Jackson
Tabler, Guy Clairmont •
Tabler, Levi Jepthah
Todd, William Hawley
Weacer, William

WITHDRAWN:
Daniels, James Edward
DIED:
Voluntine, John Chapman

--31

WITHDRAWN:
Hawkins, .Devine Z.

409

SOUTH WEST LODGE, No. 283.
National City, San Diego County.

Wilson, Gabriel Hunter

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Charles Harry Stuart, Master,
Wilson K. Felton, Senior Deacon,
Baxter Kyle Adkisson, Senior War., Walter Henry Ladroot, Junior Dea.,
Warren Everett Mills, Junior War., Dale Smith, Marshal,
Richard Edward Ga tis, Treasurer, Jerry O'Connell, Steward,
Chas. Christopher VanDeripe, Sec., Charles Pitman, Steward,
Herbert Arnold Jerauld, Chaplain, Neils Peter Rouland, Tyler.

CALLA YOMI LODGE, No. 282.
Middletown, Lake County.

.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Henry Clay Vandewater, Master,
Thomas Albert Read, Senior Deacon,
John Charles Koopman, Senior War., Charles Henry Tulfy, Junior Deacon,
Lon McKelly, Junior Warden,
James Parrish, Marshal,
Joseph Lilburn Read, Treasurer,
Pliney Wilfred Read, Steward,
John Bynum Preble, Secretary,
Paul Nelson, Steward,
... George Arthur McKinley, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aby, Charles William
Parrish, James, P. M.
Bailey, Wellman Jenness, P. M.
Preble, John Bynum
Brookins, Minor Robert
Read, Joseph Lilburn
Bruilhart, John
Read, Thomas Albert, P. M.
Cheeney, Alonzo H.
Reed, Pliney Wilfred
Deloney, Henry
Ryder, Irwing Lamphrey
DeMartin John
Reinike, John
Fruits, Arthur George
Reese, William Henry Clay
Henry, Charles Edwin
Robison, Perry Quint
Holt, Ole Kristian
Rocca, Andrew, P. M.
Kelly, John Melvin
Sacry, George Arthur, P. M.
Kemp, George Washington
Sawtell,. Fred
Koopman, John Charles
Schwartz, Earnest Walter, P. M.
Longley, Fra;nk Beaty
Silverthorn, Frank Edward
McKelly, Lon
Stoddard, Edward B.
McKinley, George Arthur, P, M.
Tully, Charles Henry
Nelson, Paul, P. M.
Vandewater, Henry Clay
-34

•

MEMBERS:
Adkisson, Baxter Kyle
McNeill, Joseph Bowyer
.Mills, Warren Everett
Angelo, William Robert
Mullen, Orlando Alfred
Arnold, Arthur Mitcheltree
Myer, James Wash.
·
Atkins, Wellington B.
Nichols, Frank 'Jay
Bragg, Arthur Virgil
Copeland, Herman
Noyes, Oliver Clarence
Davis, Emery W.
O'Connell, Jerry
Palmer, Theodore Romayne
Eggleston, William
Evans, Thomas J.
Pattee, Raymond Wilson
Patterson, Harry James
Felton, Wilson K.
Phelps, Hulcy
Fly, Edward Munrcie
Pitman, Charles
Gatis, Richard Edward
Priest, Charles Henry
Grandie.r, Frank
Reed, Frank Pierce
Hale, Richard L.
Riggs, William Mallory
Henderson, David
Rouland, Neils Peter
Henderson, Walter James, P. M.
Sawyer, Charles Henry
Ivers, John
Seymour, John
Jerauld, Herbert Arnold
Smith, Dale
Kimball, Augustus Brooks, :i:"· M.
Kimball, Frank Augustus, P. M.
Smith, Geo. E.
Strahl, David E.
Kellogg, Frederick Roderick
Stuart, Charles Harry
Ladroot, Walter H.
Tingley, Charles Herbert
Litterer, Louis Adolph
VanDeripe, Chas. Chris., P. M.
Matthiessen, Albert Henry

ROSTER.

410

Vaughan, Warren Briggs, P. M.
Ward, Martin Luther, P. M.
Williamson, Samuel King, P. M.

ROSTER.

411

WITHDRAWN:
Harpham, John Henry

Yenawine, Geo. Lafayette, P. M.
Yenawine, Julian Oustin
Zeigler, William
-54

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sellman, Geo. Washington
Lincoln, Wm. James
Webb, Smith

WITHDRAWN:
Gooch, John Barton
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brachboard, George K.
Pratt, Herbert E.
Fleming, John A.
Risdon, Herbert T.
Hammack, Daniel M.
Smith, Samuel W.
Stewart, Charles R.

SAN MIGUEL LODGE, No. 285.
San Miguel, San Luis Obispo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Jaachim G. Weidemann, Master,
Olaf Braren, Senior Deacon,
Charles Forbes, Senior Warden,
William Pinkerton, Junior Deacon,
Henry W. Lynch, Junior Warden, Lawrence McCandless, Marshal,
Gerald Noel Douglas, Treasurer,
Byron Powell Hunter, Steward,
Lorenzo Dowell Murphy, Secretary, George L. Andrews, Steward,
John Wm. Thompson, Tyler.

TYRIAN LODGE, No. 284.
Dunnigan, Yolo County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George W. Persons, Master,
Byron C. Hughes, Senior Deacon,
Walter Bernard, Senior Warden,
Herman B. West, Junior Deacon,
F. G. McCullough, Junior Warden, Thomas]. Mumma, Marshal,
Jasper N. Decker, Treasurer,
Chas. A. Betterton, Steward,
Samuel Wm. Barker, Secretary,
Wm. Henry West, Steward,
Walter Duncalf, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Arens, Thomas Otto, P. M.
Barker, Samuel William
Bernard, Walter Allen
Betterton, Charles Albert
Cain, William Henry
Copp, 1Charles Oscar
Cummins, Thomas Dae
Decker, Jasper Newton
Duncalf, Walter, P. M.
Fish, Charles Orlando, P. M.
Fish, Leon Henry
·
Gay, Walter Leforest
Green, Germain
Higham, John
Hughes, Byron Charles
Hughes, Delwyn Edward

Hughes, Norris Edwin
Hyman, George S.
Langenour, Henry Watkins
Langenour, Philip Thomas, P. M.
Mast, Edward John Frederi'Ck
McCullough, Frederick Frank
McCullough, Frederick Gapen
Mumma, Thomas Jefferson, P. M.
Persons, George Washington, P. M.
Rummelsburg, Alexander
Suggett, Buford Culwell
Suggett, Homer Marvin
Smith, William Franklin
Woodard, Edward Durgan
West, Herman Bradford
Wfst, William Henry, P. M.
-32

..

Blair, Charles Henry
Boys, Henry Stanford
Braren, Olof
Cole, Oliver Port
Coyne, Martin
Douglas, Gerald Noel, P. M.
Forbes, Charles
Forbes, James
Forbes, William Dindas
Foulkner, Pitman Lee
Fowler, George William
Ganoung, Edwin
Green, Philip
Hennage, William Romar
Hunter, Byron Powell
Knights, Frederick
Linderholm, Henry
Lynch, Henry Walter
McCandless, Lawrence, P. M.
McConnell, Gibson
McFaddin, Radin V.

MEMBERS:
McFaddin, Higgins
McGowan, Edward Allen
McQuown, Henry Monroe
Murphy, Henry Cloyd
Murphy, Lorenzo Dowell, P. M.
Noggle, Dwight Keefer
Pinkerton, William
Rauscheit, Henry George
Remington, Henry Charles
Rice, Geo. Washington
Richardson, John
Seaman, John Detli:ff, P. M.
Speegle, Andrew Jackson
Stanley, William Winfield
Taylor, Edwin
Thompson, John
Thompson, John William
Victors, Henry
Webster, John Calvin
Williams, William Alfred
Weideman, J. G.
--42

DIED:
Wright, David Green

412

ROSTER.

PASO ROBLES LODGE, No. 286.
Paso Robles, San Luis Obispo County.

ROSTER.
True, Hanson William
Waterbury, James Edwin
Webster, Alexander

Weyer., Robert C.
Williams, Samuel Anthony
Wetzel, Frank George

413

-68

Stated Meeti~gs, Wednesday of or ne:x;t succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

William Samuel Eddy, Master,
Joseph White Eddy, Senior Deacon,
Cliff Ormond Bickell, Senior War., George Albert Shupp, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Garfield Gates, Junior Warden, Warren Clifford Bennett, Marshal,
David Speyer, Treasurer,
Henry L. Manderville, Steward,
Alexander Webster, Secretary,
Oscar Clarance Gray, Steward,
George Hill Bennett, Tyler,
MEMBERS:
Horton, Alvin
Abernethy, Edward
Howard, Walter Hugh
Anderson, Herman Leslie
Iverson, Christian Anderson
Anthony, James Buchanan
Iverson, Josias
Armstrong, Richard Stephen
Jack, Albert LeForrest
Barber, Richard
K elshaw, John
Booth, Frank Johnson
Ladner, Edwin
Booth, Fred George
Macdonald, Robert Carlton
Beggs, William Crow
Manderville, Henry Lewis
Bennett, Edwin Montgomery
McDaniel, Lewis
Bennett, George Hill
Mcintire, Ernest B.
Bennett, Warren Clifford, P. M.
Monroe, John Reed
Bickell, Cliff Ormond
Muchenstrom, Joseph Isidore
Brewer, Lyman
Neal, James W.
Brooks, Myron Holly, P. M.
Neel, James Oliver
Cassin, Richard Joseph
Nelson, Andrew
Cohen, Lewis
O'Leary, Michael
Cox, Ewell
Patriquin, Alex. George
Eddy, Joseph White
Pierce, Benjamin Bowlin
Eddy, William Samuel
Poulsen, Jacobi
Elliott, Vandiver Reirl
R eid, Thomas
Eppinger, Herman
Schroeder, Arthur Van Camp
Frost, Frank Daniel, P. M.
Seideman, Conrad
Frost, Edward Parker
Shackelford, Richard Matthew
Gates, Wm. Garfield
Sherman, . Thaddeus, P. M.
Glass, James Hargis, P. M.
Shupp, George Albert
Grant, Adam Lucas
Speyer, David
Gray, Oscar Clarence
Ste.ele, Osman N.
Grist, Michael
Steinbeck, Charles Minor
Griswold, Eugene Carlton
Hamilton, Geo. Washington, P. M. Tidrow, Joseph
Trussler, Charles James, P. M.
Hayes, Samuel Wesley

WINNEDUMAH LODGE, No. 287.
Bishop, Inyo County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Alex. Clarke, Master,
Mark Quayle Watterson, Sen. Dea..
Guy P . Doyle, Senior Warden,
Jarrtes Bradford Collett, Jun. Deacon,
Albert Lloyd Wells, Junior Warden, Frederick Mortimer Hess, Marshal,
Asher Cohn, Treasurer,
John Leonidas Collins, Steward,
Will Arthur Chalfant, Secretary,
Frank Butler, Steward,
Harvey Adams, Tyler.
Adams, Harvey
Albright, Georg.e Langton
Andrews, Frank Kellogg
Barton, Hiram Arthur
Butler, Frank
Cape, Henry Mitchell
(,halfant, Will Arthur
Olarke, George Alexander
Clarke, John
Cohn, Asher
Collins, Albert Oscar, P. M.
Collins, George
Collins, John Leonidas
Doyle, Guy P., P. M.
Dunlap, John Elijah
Dunn, William James
Edwards, Benjamin Franklin
Evans, Thomas William
Farrington, Archibald
Foorman, Carl Theodore
Freeman, Alexander Cassidy
Gunter, Hannibal Newton
Hale, John
Hall, Leicester Campbell
Hammett, Willian:i Atwood

MEMBERS:
Hess, Frederick Mortimer
Jones, James
Jones, John Edward
Joughin, William Daniel
Kilpatrick, Alexander Franklin
Kilpatrick, Alexander Sanderson
Larson, Owen W.
Leicham, Charles George
Longley, George
Love, Robert
McDonald, Allan Ray
McDonald, William, P. M.
McGee, John Simpson
McMurry, Jonathan Wesley
McMurry, Samuel Goforth
McQueen, John Simpson
Mitchell, WHliam Hart
Newlan, Samuel J efferson
Olds, David
Richel, Charles Arthur
Shaw, Frank
Shaw, Harry
Shirley, Arthur Ashton
Smith, Ulysses Grant
Summers, Lloyil

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

414

Todd, John Wagner
Vandercook, Albert Emerson
Vasey, Matthias Kempley
Vermilyea, Samuel E.
Wardwell, Ralph Watts
Watterson, Mark Quayle, P. M.
Watterson, Wilfred Wm., P. M.

415

WITHDRAWN:
Hyman, William S.

Watterson William
Weill, Lazare
Wells, Albert Lloyd
Wells, George Lucien
Wildasinn, Charles Fell
Wright, Joseph Henry

DIED:
Cross, William Henry

McDow, Thomas Benton

-63

WITHDRAWN:
McNamara, Harry

I

ELSINORE LODGE, No. 289.

DIED:

Elsinore, Riverside County.

Bertrand, Oliver

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

MAXWELL LODGE, No. 288.
Maxwell, Colusa County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

James Warren Danley, Master,
John D. S. Taylor, Senior Deacon,
Geo. Wash. Desrosier, Sen. Warden, Francis Marion Baker, Jun. Deacon,
James Wells Marshall, Jun. ·Warden, Christopher C. Felts, Marshal,
Geo. Wash. Hastings, Treasurer,
George Henry Abel, Steward,
Arthur J ohn Fouch, Secretary,
Joseph Albert Braddy, Steward,
George Hineline, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abel, George Henry
Baker, Francis Marion
Braddy, Joseph Albert
Brown, Lycurgus Jerome, P. M.
Cook, Henry Jason, P. M.
Cook, Hiram S.
Cuthbertson, Alex. Macbeth
Danley, James Warren
Desrosier, George. Wash., P. M.
Duncan, Chas. Prentice, P. M.
Fisher, Horace Winton
Felts, Christopher Columbus

Fouch, Arthur John
Hastings, George Washington
Hineline; George
Mal'l!hall, James Wells
Marshall, Wm. Porter
Mushett, Leo Lee
Pence, Geo. B. McClellin
Rumelsburg, Herman
Scriver, Frederick
Snyder, August Charles
Taylor, John Delos Sharp, P. M .
-23

James Stewart, Master,
Charles S. Merrifield, Senior Deacon,
Walter C. Maloy, Senio~ Warden, Charles H. Cowles, Junior Deacon,
Lester H. Young, Junior Warden, . Herman H. Niemann, Marshal,
Charles Dickens Pool, Treasurer,
Lewis Delancy Clark, Steward,
Peter Wall, Secretary,
John Timmis, Steward,
Andrew Jackson Compton, Chaplain, Wm. Penn Haworth, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Barnett, Adrian Benjamin
Barnett, Cephas Logan
Barnett, Eli Elsa
Barnett, John Zachariah
Barnett, Marcus Elsa
Black, Lester
Brown, William Edwin
Brum,. George
Clark Oliver Stewart
Clark, Lewis Delancy
Combs, George Arlington
Compton, Andrew Jackson
Cowles, Charles Henry
Guthridge, Wm. Alonzo
Gyger, James H.
Haworth, William Penn
Hook, Joseph Frederic, £. M.
Hudson, Charles, P. M.
Kimball, Albert Thomas
Lawler, Charles
Lawler, Samuel Luther
Maloy, Walter C.
Manatt, Scott E.

McCrea, David White
Merrifield, Charles Sumner, P. M.
Morrison, William L.
Nelson, Richard Clark
Niemann; Herman Helley
Paul, Clarence Evans
Peck, John Emmet
Pool, Charles Dickens
Portius, William Franeis
Ross, George Chinn
Shafer, Charles
Sloan, William Erskine, P. M.
Smith, Walter F.
Stewart, James, P. M.
Tibbet, John Franklin
Timmis, John
Tipton, John C.
Tuell, Bern~a, J.
Walker, Hugh
Wall, Pet1!r
Whitfield, Nathaniel Cburchill
Young, Lester Henry
--45

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

416

WITHDRAWN:
Payton, Wm. Bn1~e
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
f'line, Thomas A.

Gyger, Charles E.
DIED:
Waters, Elon Elon

EAST GATE LODGE, No.

290.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Cannon Mulkey, Master,
Wm. Henry Davidson, Sen. Deacon,
Fred'k Theo. Purdy, Junior Deacon,
Asa Keyes, Senior Warden,
Henry Elmer Herman, Junior War., Frederick W. Tyler, Marshal,
Charles Martin Burr, Treasurer,
Jacob Ferdinand Haller, Steward,
Edward Lee Stephens, Secretary,
Arnoldt Goodfriend, Steward,
Wm. Thomas Daniel, Chaplain,
Jam es Madison Tibbitts, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adame, James Gilmour
Baetz, John Henry
Bailey, John Mark
Adame, Robert H~nry
Adame, Robert Perry
Bailey, John T.
Baker, Charles Edwin
Adcock, Robert Jamee
Ahrens, August
Baldwin, Evan Jenkins, Jr.
Allen, Carroll Hess
Bard, Hampeue Victor, P. M.
Allen, Robert Mitchell
Barrett, Clyde Alexander
Alexander, Charles Ambrose
Bascom, Edgar Floyd
Alexander, Oran Laffatat
Bates, Norman Francis
Alexander, Stephen W. Dorman
Bauui, Jacob
Alyeworth, George Webb
Beamon, Alexander Mortimer
Ambrose, Frank Fielder
Berman, Harry
Ambrose, Wiley Vance
Berne, Martin Alonzo
Anderson, Claude Orval
Berry, John Price
Anderson, John Francie
Beyrle, Andrew
Andrews, Clarence Carlton
Bigler, Robert Caleb
Archer, Arthur Jasen
Blackstone, Henry Winthrop
Arnoldt, Herman
Blair, Cassius Davie
Atherton, Nelson
Blair, Philip Albert
Ashley, William Buckley
Bleseington, Frank Edward
Aydelotte, George Howard
Bogart, Charles Henry

~uchard, Philipa
Bourne, John Franklin
Bowersock, Charles Andre.w
Boyd, Charles Elmer
Boyle, Peter Murray, P. M.
. Bradford, Charles Samuel, P. M.
Brain, Robert Thomas
Brown, Clinton Orlin
Brown, Joseph Edgar
Buehler, Charles
Bullard, Wm. Bradford
Bullis, Wesley H.
Burgoyne, William
Burr, Charles Martin
Calef, Frank John
Campbell, Henry Chapney
Carhart, John Warren
Carlson, Charles August
Carrick, Harvey Hall
Carroll, Frank
Carson, John Kingsley
Cary, Oliver
Case, Edwin Alanson
Chaney, Edward Watson
Christian, Harfield Timberlake
Chapman, John
Chadwick, Arthur Bell
Chambers, Andrew Jackson
Charbonnel, Marie Joseph Zoisime
Childs, Wiley Waldron
Chester, Charles Monod
Clark, Edgar Willard
Clapp, Vietor
Coedry, Thomas Wallace
Cole, Nathan, Jr.
Coleman, Thomas Newton
Collette, Louis Prime
Conklin, Leon Robbin
Cooksey, William Mansfield
Cooper, Milton Gilbert
Cottrell, Leonard Jerald
Crane, Floyd Walter
Crawford, John Henry
Crmtehshank, Lewis
Crowley, James Thomas
~7

Daniel, William Thomas
Davidson, William Henry
Davison, Allen
De La Monte, Jacques Henry
Dibble, James Robert
Dickson, James
Doekstrader, Ernest Clayton
Donato, Henry Delmond
Douglas, Perey Hol~e
Dromgold, Reuben Wisor
Durfee, DeLois Atkins
DeNiek, John Adam
Denison, Frank Edgar
Eagan, Daniel Augustus
Edgerton, Edwin Oviatt
Eggert, Gustave
Etehepare, Gaston Joseph
Evans, Evan Arthur
Ewing, William Samuel
Fee, John Chester
Fehrensen, Louis Henry
Feidler, Max
Fernald, Joseph Harry
Fisher, Walter Willard
Flint, Frank Putnam, P. M.
Flint, Motley Hughes, P. G. M.
Flynn, Rudolph
Forbes, Frank Sumner
Forschner, Donald Robert
Frankhouser, Francis Wm.
Frembling, Albert Fred
Fulton, William Henderson
Gale, William Knight
Gardiner, Francis Irwin
Gillingham, Caleb
Goble, William Franklin
Gordan, Benhard
Gray, Melville M.
Gray, Thomae Henry
Green, Jonathan M.
Gundlaek, Augustus
Gwynn, Alfred Edward
Hable, George Henry
Hafford, Ferris Samuel
Ifaizlip, John Franklin

417

418
Hale, George Varnum
Hall, Harry Barton
Haller, Jacob Ferdinand
Hallett, William Hovey
Hamm, Wm. Geo.
Harris, Cornelius Radcliff
Harris, Harry Lester
Harting, John Henry
Hathaway, LeViene Josiah
Hawley, Mark Lee
. Hayes, Fred
Hayward, Frank Edward
Rea~, Bernard
Heaney, Robert
Hease, John Max
Hellman, Marco Herman
Henderson, William Alexander
Henshaw, William Ambrose ·
Herman, Henry Elmer
Herwick, John Steck
Higgins, Solon Lee
Hogancamp, Robert Thomae
Holderman, Clarence Smith
Hollis, George Henry
Holland; Chas. Alfred .
Holloway, Joseph Brevitte·
Holmes, Alfred Henry
Horner, John
Horton, Leo White
Houser, Frederick Wilhelm, P. M.
Hudson, Geo. Whitfielcl
Huestis, Ed. McCook
Hutchins, Ray
Ingersoll, Robert Leroy
James, Frank
Jay, Frank Augustus
Jeffries, John Henry
Jeffrey, Andrew Orr
Johnson, Charles William
Johnson, James Thomas
Johnson, John Griffith
Johnson, Pierce Floyd
Joslyn, Charlton E.
Keise, Roy Boardman
Kellogg, Frederick Ranney

ROSTER.
Keyes, Asa
Keyes, Charles George
King, Francis Everton
Kletting, Oscar
Knoer, Charles Albert
Koretz, Emil
Lampton, Leon Eugene, P. M.
Landsberg, Marcus
Lane, Ralph Elthworthy
Lanphar, William Vaughn
Lawler, Oscar, P. M.
Lawler, Norman
Lawrence, John
Leavers, George Reynolds
Leeds, Walter Ransome
Leeds, William Harmon
Lefiler, Charles Blackburn
Lefiler, John Robert
Lester, Albert Austin
LeVan, Charles William
Lovejoy, William Robertson
Luckenbach, John
Lynch, Edward C.
Maag, Jacob Henry
Maley, Charles Wesley
Mann, Wm. Austin
Martin, David, P. M.
Martin, James Rufus
McAlpine, Bertram
·McClure, John
McCully, Richard Overall
McDonald, Charles Alexancler
McGarvin, Donne Clio
Mcintyre, Charles Ira, P. M.
McKeag, William Heisler, Jr.
McKillip, Denis Edward
McMillan, Erwin Adelbert
McNab, Frank Brown
Mendelsohn, Myer
Meredith, William Gaylore
Messacar, Frank William
Metzler, Milton
McWhorter, Thomas Lakin
Michelson, Homer Manuel
Milligan, Noevall Webb

ROSTER.
Monkman, Rollin Wilfred
Montgomery, Chester Arthur
Morrill, Mattson, Annis
Morris, Bernard
Morris, Jacob
· Morrison, Edwin M.
Morgan, James Glenn
Morgan, William Brazelton
Moore, Robert Beach
Moss, Clemence Felton
Mottashed, John Alexander
Mulkey, Frank Cannon
Musso, Rocco Vincenzo
j\jesbit, Hayes William
Nevins, Leon Wesley
Nickell, Fran.cis Marion
Nickerson, John William
Nightengale, John Henry
Nutter, Lyman Eugene
Oliver, William Edwin
Orr, Oscar Owen
Ottarson, Earl Ferdinand Joaquin
Pallman, Axell
Palmer, Thomas Shr.rpe
Palomaras, Frank Josiah
Parker, Claude Irving
Patterson, Charles Edgar
Patterson, Peter F.
Patton, Vaughn Quain
Paul, John Rink
Pearson, Carr<>ll Addison
Penn, Charles Franklin
Perillard, Joseph Daniel
Perkins, Albert Henry Scudder
Pierce, William Harry
Plumb, William Benjamin
Poll, Matt
Porter, Charles Alfred
Potts, Alexander Robert
Priddy, ffiysses Grant
Purdy, Frederick Theo.
Putman, Frederick Singleton
Quince, Frederick William
Ragan, Nathaniel Richard
Randle, William Alonzo

Reber, John Edward
Rees, William David
Reichard, Jacob
Remington, Samuel. W.
Renfro, Alva D.
Reynolds, Clay. Moses
Richardson, William
Ritchie, Alfred George
Ritchie, James
Rittingstein, Joseph
Robinson, Henry James
Rogers, Joseph Redford
Rogers, Wm. Madison
Romans, Lorenzo
Romans, Tb.eo. Denny
Royere, Paul Peter
Rush, Judson Randolph ·
Russell, Almen Butler
Sanborn, Clarence Kendall
Sanborn, Frank Herbert
Sanborn, Wheelock Kimball
Schleibitz, Albert Henry
Schmidt, Herman Carl
Schroeter, Robert George
Schultz, Emil Albert
Searl, Albert
Shang, Hubert Story
Shaw, Cecil. Guard
Shaw, Ross D.
Shellen, Helmer Augustus
Shilling, Warren Randolph
Shorb, Orrie Ashley Andrew
Shultis, Jordan
Smith, Benjamin Nathaniel, Jr.
Smith, Frederick W'illiam
Smith, Melvin David
Smith, Ross Williams
Sovereign, Geo. Roscoe
Spalding, William Andrew, P. M.
Spear, Joseph Morgan
Spear, Samuel Dunn
Spence, John Daniel
Spencer, Thomas Jarvis
Stead, Benson, Jr.
Stearns, Elmer Paine

419

Stephens, Albert Miller, Jr.
Stephens, Clarence Edward
Stephens, Clarence Eugene
Stephens, Edward Lee, P. M.
Stephens, Harry Shryock
Stevenson, Charles Oscar
Stockwell, George Washington
Stone, Harry Eli
Street, Wm. Harry
Streshley, Richard Channey
Stuart, Joseph Leroy
Stumpf, Elmo John
Suell, Elijah
Sutton, Geo. Elmer
Syminton, Gilbert John
Taylor, Russell McDonald
Terrell, Herbert Tonman
Thom, Cameron DeHart
Thom, Catesby cµarles, P. M.
Thomson, James
Tibbitts, James Madison
Trueblood, Samuel T.
Tyler, Benn Champion
Tyler, Frederick Williams
Vandegrift, Malcolm Robb
VanWhy, August Marion
Bradford, Chas. Raymond
Carver, Chas. Elliott
*Gray, Robert Henry
Janssen, Julius

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

420

Vint, Robert
Vlodeck, Alexander
Walbridge, Otis Collins
Walsh, Daniel Potter
Walsworth, Chester Byson
Ward, George Washington
Washburn, William Johnson
Weaver, Lucian Leroy
Weir, William Warren
Weller, William Woods
West, George Miller
West, Henry Hebard
White, William
Wharton, Charles B.
Wilkes, Alfred Galpin
Wilkes, Thomas
Williams, Herbert George
Willis, Frank Rominar, P. M.
Wilson, Charles Allen
Wilson, William Frank
Winans, Alonzo Cully
Winters, Charles Oscar
Witham, William Henry
Yager, Sherman Alvin
Younkman, William Earl
Zeitz, William David.
-364

SANTA PAULA LODGE, No. 291.
Santa Paula, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Fuu Moon.

OFFICERS:

•

WITHDRAWN:
Kennedy, Wm. Homer
Paugborn, Edward J. W.
Thompson, Mark
•rrain, John Henry

SUSPENDED FOR
Arnold, Oscar Robert

~ON-PAYMEN'l'

OF DUES:
Gardiner, Robert St. John

DIED:
Howe, Frederick Beniah
Blackman, Julius Lucius
Stafford, Harry Fritsch
Eason, Charles Horace
Smalley, John Newton
•Degrees conferred during the year.

421

•

•

Frank Keith Titus, Master,
Ray Comfort Joy, Srnior Deacon,
Walter B'enry Wright, Senior War., Frank Elwin Good, Junior Deacon,
Willie McCain Stein, Jun. Warden. David Wallace M<>tt, Marshal,
Frank Elwell Davis, Treasurer,
John Briggs Crane, Steward,
Edwin Virden, Secretary,
Arthur Hall Blanchard, Steward,
Joshua Perry Churchill, Chaplain.. James Burrows Titus, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allen, William Henry
Good, Frank Elwin
Barkla, Carl Benjamin
Graham, John Biggs
Barry, George A.
Guiberson, Joseph Warner
Beckley, Leroy Salisbury, P. M.
Hales, William
Best, Willis Austin
Hardison, Guy Lyman
Blanchard, Arthur Hall
Hardison; Louis Arthur
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, P. M.
Hardison, Lowell Mason
Blanchard, Nathan Weston, Jr.
Hardison, Oliver James
Bond, Thomas Hindman
Hardison, Wallace Libby
Briggs, Emory
Harrington, James Hastings
Browne, Isaac Proctor, P. M.
Haugh, Joseph Reck, P. M.
Burson, Albert Louis, P. M.
Hawley, Oscar Franklin
Cauch, John Robert
Henderson, Herbert Curtis
Churchill, Joshua Perry
Hudson, Charles Henry
Claberg, Norris Leander
Hutchins, James Varcoe
Clarke, Robert Montgomery
Hutchison, Robert N ewton
Cleveland, Charles Jerry
Jenkins, Samuel Rogers
Corbett, Leonard White
Joy, Ray Comfort
Crane, John Briggs
Kays, Henry B.
Davis, Frank Elwell, P. M.
Kenney, William
DeNure, Delos DeWolf
Mack, James, P. M .
Derbyshire, Fred L evi
Mann, John Wesley
Draper, Arthur Edgar
Mcintosh, George· Robert
Drown, Alton Lucius
Miles, George Washington
Fagan, Michael
Mott, David Wallace, P. M.
Farrand, George E.
Naugle, Wm. Burket
Farrand, Harry Milton
Orcutt, John Hall, P. M .
Flisher, George Washington
Pickering, James Alex.
Foster, Frank Cheney
Plaugher, Frank
Frey, William Lester
l>oplin, Robert Lee
Gibson, John Archibald
Puckett, Charles Newton

ROSTER.

422

Ramsey, William MeCreery
Ransdall, Alee Moore
Rice, James Clarence
Richardson, John A.
Richardson, William Fenney
Salathe, Frederick
Say, Norman Oliver, P. M.
Scott, William Benjamin
Shain, Halver Alonzo
Skinner, Ernest Guy
Skinner, George Horace
Skinner, George Leonard
Sloan, James Harvey, P. M .
Slocum, Thomas · Arnold
Simpson, James Allen
Sperry, James Clarence
Stein, Willie McCain

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:

Stewart, James Foster
Strong, Jacob Corrington
Teague, Charles Collins
Teague, Richard Henry
Titus, Frank Keith
Titus, James Burrows, P. M.
Todd, Marquis DeLafayette
Underwood, William Lane
Virden, Edwin, P. M.
Webb, Charles Tiehner
Whitmer, George
Williams, Frederiek Smith
Wilson, Charles Berry
Wiser, Frank Alfred
Wright, Walter Henry
Youngken, Benjamin Noble

Anderson, Anton
Balch, Stevens Delos
Beckwith, Henry Seamon
Berryman, Arthur, P. M.
Blank, Moses Franklin, P. M.
Briggs, Charles Hunter, P. M.
Bullard, Sewell Francis
Butler, Edward Samuel Stone
Charles, Charles
Chubbock, Samuel Willis
Cole, Lawrens A.
Curtiss, Merritt C.
Decker, Charles Magnus
Derrickson, Francis Marion
Ellis, John Edward
Emerson, George Randolph
Erickson, Andrew Lawrence
Finley, Harry St. Clare
Fretwell, Joseph Joel
Gober, Robert Pearis
Green, Geo. Anthony
Hook, Jonathan Wesley
Hunter, Charles Mandeville
Johns, Thomas Edwin, P . M.
,Tones, William, P. M.
King, John Jay
Knowles, Frank Wesley, P. M.
Latham, Allen Roscoe
Lint, Peter Franklin
Lowell, Frank Sumner

-95

WITHDRAWN:
Barnes, Louis Lee
Davis, Arthur H.

Kelsey, Arthur Louis
MeDivitt, Clyde James

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brown, Rennie Colmer
Gascoigne, Stephen
Potter, Mack

McKevett, Chas. Henry

DIED:
Olmsted, Frank Cruson

LOS GATOS LODGE, No.

'423

WITHDRAWN:
Trailer, Lewis Clinton

292.

Los Gatos, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each Month.
OFFICERS:

Peter Franklin Lint, Master,
Harry St.Clare Finley, Sen. Deacon,
Anton Anderson, Senior Warden,
Leslie Ellsworth Sheffield, Jun . Dea.,
George Anthony Green, Junior War., Charles Hunter Brig.qs, Marshal,
Arthur Berryman, Treasurer,
Francis Marion Derrickson, Steward,
John Edward Ellis, Secretary,
Charles Henry Pierce, Steward,
. James Hardie London, Tyler.

Lyndon, James Hardie
Lyndon, John Weldon
Matheson, David
McMurtry, George Sherman
Moore, David Charles
Osmer, George
Pearce, Bartholomew William
Pearce, Franklin WalttJr
Pearce, James Henry
Pierce, Charles Henry
Rice, John Austin
Riggs, Zedd Smith, P. M.
Roberts, Carl Jackson
Roberts, Douglas J.
Roberts, Hugh Ross, P. M.
Roberts, Sumner Van Ness, P. M.
Robertson, Richard Felix, P. M.
Sage, Lewis Alvin
Sams, Abram Lash
Scammon, Charles Franklin
Sheffield, Leslie Ellsworth
Shirley, Horace Gordon
Siman, John Bohumit
Simpson, Samuel
Sporleder, William
Stanfield, James John
Watson, Robert Matthew
Weaver, Nelson Holland
Wilder, Notia Irwin.
-59

•
Sund, Louis

DIED:
Syverson, Samµel

424

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Poussette, William Courthope
Riley, George Allan
Robertson, Francis Elolen
Robinson, Frederick Martin
Rowley, Wm. Orian
Royer, Daniel Franklin, P. M.
Schmidt, John
Scott, Alfred Jay, Jr.
Scott, Walter Maxwell
Smith, William Arthur
Sproule, Gilbert

ORANGE GROVE LODGE, No. 293.
Orange, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Nelson Thomas Edwards, Master, Wm. Martin Brown, Senior Deacon,
Arthur Child Newell, Senior War., Asher Frank Lankford, Jun. Deacon,
Alton Lincoln Hitchcock, Jun. War., Noah Uly~ses Potter, Marshal,
Kellar Ebenezer Watson, Treasurer, Sam Jernigan, Steward,
Walter Scott Gregg, Secretary,
Will Cushman Lee, Steward,
Louis Adelbert Durfee, Chaplain,
Abraham Beecher Tiffany, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Harrison Zachariah
Hayton, John Burr
Adams, John
Helwig, Walter Lee
Arnim, William Laidley
Hitchcock, Alton Lincoln
Baker, Charles
Hollister, Chas. W.
Bishop, Clyde Livingston, P. M.
Honey, Edwin Alonzo, P. M.
Boice, A. Croxton
Jernigan, Sam
Boring, Johnty Purcell
Jesson, George Francis
Bowen, David
Johnston, William Daniel, P. M.
Braisher, John Sidney, P. M.
Killefer, Joseph, P. M.
Brown, Edwin J.
King, John Allen
Bush, William Tandy, P. M.
Knesel, Jacob L.
Clark, Milo Monroe
Lankford, Asher Frank
Close, Nathaniel M. P.
Lee, Eugene Tewksbury
Collins, Isaac Lee, P. M.
Lee, Wm. Cushman
Cooper, Harry R.
Lounsberry, John Brown
Crawford, Daniel Peers
Mallory, Charles Perrin
Dalton, Robert C.
MacMullan, Daniel A.
Donovan, Napoleon
McDonald, William Henry
Drake, David Clarence
McTaggart, Neil Godfrey
Durfee, Louis Adelbert
Meehan, Jack Edward
Edwards, Nelson Thomas
Mellor, Franklin Horace
·~'Ferguson, Chancy C.
Miller, Herman A.
Field, Charles Otis
Morgan, John William
Frederick, Joseph Hanna
Myers, Jesse David
Fullerton, James, P. M.
Newell, Arthur Childs
Gardner, Dian Rathburn
Paine; James Robert
Park, Wm. B.
Granger, Wm. Delos
Gregg, Walter Scott, P. M.
Perkins, Wylyss Warren
Gregg, William Merrill
.Pixley, DeWitt Clinton
Haw, John Henry
Porter, John Robert
Haynes, Chas. Asa
Potter, Noah Ulyses

425

Swinney, Vincent Bolivar
Tiffany, Abraham B.
Upham, Harry George
Wade, Llewellyn
Waldorf, Albert J.
Watson, Kellar E.
Weber, Francis S.
Williams, Howard Orlan, P. M.
Williams, James Thomas
Williams, Warner Bryant, P. M.
Weymouth, Albert
-84

WITHDRAWN:
Burke, Orion Harry
DIED:
Field, James

TRAVER LODGE, No. 294.
Kingsburg, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Ernest Marion Kimberlin, Master, Asa Bird Loomis, Senior Deacon,
Nathan Alfred King, Senior Ward., Francis Leo Rea,_ Junior Deacon,
Forrest Roy Stirewalt, Jun. Warden, Charles Henry Dill, Marshal,
Levi Garret, Treasurer,
Martin Sandy Stirewalt, Steward,
Eugene Williard Peechley, Secretary, Daniel E . ~rown, Steward,
\Valter Henry Dresser, Chaplain,
Barton Ellison, Tyler.

.,

•

•

Barry, William Scott
Bishop, Geo. W.
Bowhay, Newton J.
Brown, Daniel E.
Buchanan, Alex. Marion
Crosby, Everett Wilbur
Curle, Garland Ward, P. M.
Fray, Reuben Henry
Dill, Charle!! Henry, P. M .
Dresser, Walter Henry
Ellison, Barton

MEMBERS:
Estabrook, Joseph S.
Garret, Levi
Johnson, Axel
King, Nathan Alfred
Loomis, Asa Bird
McGovern, George Washington
Millsap, Eugene Albert
Mugler, Albert Miller
Nelson, William Dennis
Payne, Oliver Payton
Peacock, Harrison Ross ·

426

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

Pennebaker, William Findlay
Pillsbury, Joseph Davis, P. M.
Rea, D. Bunn
Rea, Francis Leo
Redenbaugh, Milton
Stirewalt, Forrest Roy

Stirewalt, Martin Sandy
Thomas, Henry Colby
Williams, Nelson Wallace
Wolfe, Alonzo D.
Wolff, Seigmund

Morelli, Joseph Barnba
Morelli, Lee Gaulinzie
Mosley, Albert Pettis
Oberfell, William
Patton, John
Peugh, David Benjamin
Peugh, Edward Allen
Plath, Fritz
Prestwood, Jesse Franklin
Prosak, Charles Martin, P. M.
Ridenhour, Lewis Edward

-33

WITHDRAWN:
Burum, Henry Huston
Dopkins, Geo. Madison

Howard, Frank Evans
King, Roberson J.
DIED:
Young, John Solomon

•
MOUNT JACKSON LODGE, No. 295.

DIED:
Thompson, William Huntoon

preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS:
Jesse. Franklin Prestwood, Master, I
M G
D d
saac c uffin, Senior Deacon
avt B. Peugh, Senior· Warden,
William Chester Cole, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Arthur Turner, Jun. Wa~den,
Dav1'd H etze,
I M ~shal,
,
Oliver Wescott, Treasurer,
Samuel H Riese St
d
John Jeff Keaton, Secretary,
Lauren M.· Marti~, s::;rd·
Marshall Florence, Tyler.
'

SILVER GATE LODGE, No. 296.
San Diego, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Frank Augustus Frye, Master,
Parker Earl Baird, Senior Deacon,
Chas. Leonard Marks, Sen. Warden, George Huet Garner, Junior Deacon,
Gustaf Brelin, Junior Warden,
Clarence Lincoln Tarr, Marshal,·
Eugene Daney, Treasurer,
Francis James Sillifant, Steward,
Joseph Henderson Francis, Sect'y., Alfred Gordon Mackenzie, Steward,
Fred Cornelius Hyers, Chaplain,
Frank Dodgson Jefferis, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Abbey, Alfred
Abbey, Alfred Bailhche
Austin, David Lee
austin, John Overton
Ayers, William Henry Martin
Bagley, Herbert Lincoln, P. M.
:Qanks, James Asa
Beattie, John, P. M.
Bohn, Frederick
Brown, Chester Brock
Campbell, 'James Madison
Carr, Charles Fremont
Cobb, Omer Otto
Cole, Williard Chester
Gole, William Lester
Corbaley, Walter Bond

Duncan, Thomas Fluden
Florence, Arthur
Florence, Marshall
Fickeisen, Frederick William
Hasek, Frank Joseph
Reason, George Walker
Hetzel, David
Hrusa, John
Irwin, Joseph Wesley
Keaton, John Jefferson
Kuster, Mathias
Marshall, John Madison
McGuffin, Isaac, P. M.
· McPeak, Anthony
McPeak, Mathew Lawriince
Miller, James Zering

Rule, William Johnson
Shera, Albert Edward
Snow, Phillip Henry
Teaderman, Edward
Tunstall, Robert Noel
Turner, William Arthur
Ungewitter, Henry W1Jst, P. M.
Van De Mark, George Franklin
Watson, James Reade, P. M.
Watson, Marvin Albert
Wescott, Oliver
-54

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Brearety, Chas. Stephen
Jansen, Soren C.
Byron, Edward Herbert
Stacy, Wm. James B.
Gilliam, David Taylor
Wendt, Fred John

Guerneville, Sonoma County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next

427

•

Acheson, Nathan Bailey
Airhart, Wm. Henry
Almgren, Louis, Jr.
Anderson, Gottfred
Bachman, Joseph Sylvester
Baird, Parker Earl
Beach, Henry Ward
Beach, John Chauncey
Benoit, Victor
Benton, William C.

•

MEMBERS:
Billing, John
Bode, George Elton
Botting, Charles Stewart
Boyle; Daniel
Bra.dbury, John Fairfield
Bradley, Andrew Joseph
Brelin, Gustaf
Brown, Edward Leslie
Bruschi, Virgilio Geacomo
Buck, Adam

,.

428
Burbeck, Edward Mitchell
. Hye, Charles Richard
Campbell, John
Cantrell, David Gooding
Carey, George Washington
Cassidy, James Henry, P. :M.
Chapman, George Burton
Chilton, William Brown
Clark, James Smith
Clements, Albert Henry
Coleman, Sheppard w.
Cornell, Anson Fiske, P. M.
Creelman, Lawrence Aug., P. M.
Daney, E91tene, P. M.
Davenport, Mayon S.
Davis, Fredric Eugene
Davis, William Justus, P. :M.
DeFerrari, Joseph Charles
Doddridge, William Henry
Dodson, Alonzo Eugene, P. M.
Downs, Benjamin Fuller
Doyle, .Tarvis Lathrope, P. :M.
Du.dley, Irving Bedell
Edwards, Alfred Geo.
Ehrman, Henry Stephens
Ernsting, Christian William
Escher, John Frederick
Fano, Edward Aaron
Ferguson, William Joseph
Fletcher, Edward
Francis, Joseph Henderson
Frye, Frank Augustus
Garner, Geo. Hunt
Gearhart, Wilber Fisk
Greene, Wilber Eugene
Grier, .Samuel Wood
Grove, Edward
Hakes, Charles Clifford
Hak;es, Ledyard Burdette
Hansen, George
Hardy, Charles Saunders
Harris, Felix
Harrison, George Richard
Harry, Sidney Curtis
Hawks, Chas: Wm.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Hoar, Thomas Charles
Hoberecht, Albert
Holmquist, Carl Alfred
Hornbeck, Edson A.
Hulburd, Ebenezer Wallace
Hyers, Fred Cornelius p M
Ingram, Wm. Baker ' · ·
Ireland, Joseph
Johnstone, Albert Edward p M
Johnstone, Harry Smith ' • ·
Johnstone, James Simpson
Jones, ·Alfred
Jones, Evan Robert
Julian, Charles Hueston
Kaford, Theo. Lawrence
Kaidel, John Theo.
Kearney, John Edgar
Klein, David
Kneale, Thomas
Kneale, William
Knoles, Samuel Stone
King, Enoch Leander
Kretsinger, David Lewis
Kurtz, John Bloxham
Lundgren, John Edward
Lyke, Charles William
MacDonald, Allan
MacKenzie, Alfred Gordon
Malmberg, Nils
Manning,. John Felix
Marks, Charles Leonard
Marshall, Oscar Darlington
Marshall, Otta
McCreesh, Wm. Charles
McGar, Percy Herbert
McKenzie, Alex.
McKenzie, Bernard Wright
McKenzie, George M.
Mc!nnes, Magness
Mertzman, Frank
Millspaugh, Allanson Gillespie
Moran, Alford
Morey, Charles Eugene
Naylor, Francis Bryon
Neely, William Thomas

•

0 'Farrell, Fred
O'Neil, ·James Clifford
Olson, Robert Emil
Palmeter, Charles Sumner
Park, Charles Clar.mce
Parker, Peter James
Peterson, William J ame.s
Phillips, Edwin Theophilus
Phillips, George Andrew
Phillips, George Washington
Pollock, Harrold Kent
Prien, Henry Frederick John
Pringle, William Henry
Rehn, George William
Robinson, Fred Hanson
Schrader, Adolph
Schrader, Charles Adolph
Scoville, Samuel Milton
Schultheiss, Herman Martin
Shaw, Francis Albert Thompson
Sillifant, Francis James
Slewing, Robert Robert
S~th, Ernest Howard
Smith, William Mufilin
Snyder, Nelson Spencer
Spriggs, Frederick Henry
Stead, Grove DeForest

Adams, Geo. Benj.
Cummings, Bartholmew P.

Steade, James Milton
Sweet, Adelbert Hiram, P. :M.
Symons, John Quiller
Taber, Homer Galena
Tarr, Clarence Lincoln
Taylor, Archibald, P. M.
Thomas, Richard A.
Thorp, Milton Rollin
Timken, Henry
Toms, George Ernest
Treahy, John Patrick
Trepte, Moritz
Turner, Abner Marleborouih
Vergon, James
Wade, William Edwari\.
Walker, Frank Lawrence
Wandry, Bruno John
Weiland, Edward Lewis
W elisch, Herman
Wellington, Charles Irwin
Wells, James, P. M.
Westcott, John Clark
Wilson, William
Willard, Harry N.
Wolf, Edward Wm. Julius Lewis
Wood, Royal A.
Wright, Orlamlo S.
-164

WITHD'RAWN:
*MacDougall, John C.
Winsby, Enoch

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Franklin, Alfred C.
Capps, Edwin M.
Shepard, Wm. Milton
Carter, Frank Watkins
Sinclair, Charles Newton
Conroy, John
Wall, Henry Lafayette
Copley, James Grace

Gillen, Joseph Reath
McAlpine, Amos Chapman
•Restored during the l ear .

429

DIED:
Preston, Edward L.
Rood, Vernon Dudley

ROSTER.

431

ROSTER.

-130

DUNSMUIR LODGE, No. 297.
Dunsmuir, Siskiyou County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Gustav Albert Hutaff, Master,
Henry S. Herron, Senior Deacon,
Jeffry Wm. Hawkins, Sen. Warden, Harrison F. Stuckey, Junior Deacon,
Henry Augustus Land, Jun. Warden, Byron F . Dunn, }Jarshal,
Alexander Levy, Treasurer,
Samuel H. Hill, Steward,
William R. Lee, Secretary,
Charles W. lback, Steward,
Charles E. Thompson, Chaplain,
James Robertshaw, Tyler.
Anderson, Fred
Atkins, John Hugh
Axtell, Morris McClellan
Banfield, Harry Wentworth
Beard, John Augustus
Bowen, Elisha J.
Brown, Herbert Ernest
Bryan, Percy Abbott
Campbell, John Milton
Carnahan, Charles Abraham
Clark, Sheldon
Comstock, Homer Guilford
Culver, Alex. Eugene
Culver, James Duellis
Cuvellier, Rene William
Darby, Frank Howard
Dougherty, Charles Fremont
Dougherty, James Barton
Du Bose, John Evance
Dunn, Byron Franklin, P. M.
Elfendahl, Ernest William
Engvicht, George
Eubanks, Calvin
Fitz Gerald, John Willard
Fuller, Louis Clark
Fussler, Julius Earle
Gotthold, Julius Charles
Grant, Joseph Clement
Griffith, Aaron Sumner
Hallisy, James
Harter, A. E.

MEMBERS:
Hawkins, Jeffrey William, P. M.
Herron, Henry S.
Higgins, Frank Lincoln
Hill, Samuel Henry
Hobart, Frederick Edward
Hoffman, Jacob Ziba
Hollis, Fred John
Hutaff, Gustave Albert, P. M.
Ibach, Charles Wilmer
Jenkins, Walter Story
Joesink, George Henry
Judy, Fred Verdam
Kilborn, Harry Alden
Lambert, Luther Jackson
Land, Henry Augustus
Lee, William Robert
Levy, Alex., P. M.
Levy, Joseph
Mallory, Fred Lucien
Malone, George Edwin
Marriner, Wilber Plimington
McCoy, George Watson, P. M.
McCoy, William Henry
McDonald, William Dorsey
Munamaker, Walter D.
Neeley, David Arthur
Nourse, Francis Cummings
Parkinson, George Martin
Ragan, Edwin D.
Ricksecker, Ovid Hall
Roberts, William Bailey, P. M.

Thompson, Charles ElliottThompson, Joseph
Tipton, Ora Francis
Trugeon, William George
Van Vacto:r, Harold Grant
Van Vactor, William E=et
Victory, William Henry
Walters, John William
Walther, Harry Lincoln, P. :M.
Ward, Charles Rawson
·wentz, Henry
Wickes, Charles Elsworth.
Wilcox, Robert Burns
Wilkins, Alva Roswell
Williams, Albert Speneer
Wilson, Rarry W.
- 94•

Robertshaw, James
:Russell, Charles Parker
Russell, James Edward
Salzman, George
Saunders, James
. Schadt, Alfred Daniel
Sch11-ndel, Matthias Charles
Schulze, William Austin
Shearer, George Edwin
Shearer, Jesse Herbert
Silva, Louis
Small, William Thomafl
Sou thnick, Roy Frank
Stuckey, Harrison F.
Sullivan, Daniel Francis
Tartar, Horace Van

WITHDRAWN:
Doerr, Frank Herman
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Richardson, Henry Thomas
DIED:
Dickey, James

MOKELUMN~ HILL LODGE, No. 298.
Mokelumne Hill, Calaveras County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

.

Master,
·weldy Smith Yeager, Senior Deacon,
~~bo%ta:C.s;;!::~b~::iar Warden, Thomas Alex. Wilson, Junior Deacofl,
Clarence Allison Berry, Jun . T¥ar., Thomas Wm. Taylor, Marshal,
. Fred'k Wm. Suessdorf, Treasurer, Henry Schrag, Steward,
Edward Philip Congdon, Secretary, Joseph May~r, Steward,
Frank Zeba Towle, Chaplain,
Caesar Jennings, Tyler.
Barazini, Joseph
Berry, Clarence Allison
Blake, Charles· Henry
Bruce, Eugene Edgar, P. M.
Bruce, Hardy Ellsworth

MEMBERS:
Chaffee, Frank
Champion, John
Congdon, Edward Philip
Congdon, George Julius
Cortmarsh, Frank Odilon

432

ROSTER.

Cowell, Thomas Albert
Cox, James Mason
Crawford, Arthur Eugene
Day, Charles Eugene, P. M.
Day, Francia Henry, P. M.
Day, John Benjamin
Davidson, Samuel Louis
Davouat, William Louis
Dell 'Orto, Joseph
Dondaro, Bartholomew
Emerson, George
Flanders, Addison
Flanders, Henry Scribner
Gnecco, John
Guth, Charles
Hwnaun, Theo.
Hexter, Louis
Holbrook, Eugene Harvey
Houston, Harry Lee
Jennings, Caesar
Jones, Evan Llewellyn
Luke, Simon
Lunt, Charles Richard
Magaw, James, P. M.
Maher, Edward, P. M.
Mayer, Joseph

Meyer, John Wilhelm
Miller, Ralph Anderson
Moore, John
Murry, Henry Gordon
Pattie, Joseph Henry
Peek, Frank Wilson
Peters, Thomas Constantine, P. M,
Rathbun, Sylvan Ford
Read, Walter
Robinson, William Thomas
Rodonovich, John
Schrag, Henry
Shute, John William
Sterling, John Henry
Stewart, James Oscar
Sueaadorf, Frederick William
Swithenbank, Albert A.
Taylor, Thomas William
Thompson, James Thomas
Thompson, Ross Stevens
Towle, Franklyn Zeba
Vusich, Peter
Warnecke, Carl Marie
Wilson, Thomas Alex.
Yeager, Weldey Smith
-61

WITHDRAWN:
Messenger, Hiram Henry

LIBERTY LODGE, No. 299.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Louis Melvin Kimberlin, Master,
Max Kohner, Senior Deacon,
Richard Franklin Hart, Sen. War., Wm. Creque Raymond, Junior Dea.,
Horace Asbury Myers, Jun. Warden, Percy Stuart Regnart, Marshal,
Albert Harris, Treasurer,
Samuel Howland Morrison, Steward,
Edward Chase, Secretary,
Thomas Henry Smith, Steward,
Wiley Hudelston Trogden, Chaplain, Louis Gairaud, Tyler.

ROSTER.

433

MEMBERS:

•

Adams, Frank Yale
Alden, Edward Henry
Alderman, Fred Alton
Allen, James Alphonso
Angus, John Archie
Ayres, Clarence Mortimer
Baker, Edward James
.
Barli, Alleasandro Luciani, P. M.
Bean, Harry Joel
Beattie, David A.
Beattie, John Irving
Beattie, Murray
Benjamin, Otho Howard
Berry, Henry Sanford
Berry, John William
Bishop, Ezra Francia
Bohannan, Willis George
Bond, Louis Whitford
Bowdish, Melville Sherwood
Britton, Lewis Henry
Chase, Edward
Chickowich, George John
Uhilaon, William Charles
Clark, Earl Danforth
Cox, Jacob Milon, P. M.
Coyne, Rotert John
Cramer, George Franklin
Cra'Wford, Ernest James
Darling, Paul Lindsley
Davidson, James Nelson
Dillon, Robert
Dixon, Mathew Alexander
Downing, George Lucas, P. M.
Durling, Perry Douglas
Eberhard, Henry Philip
Eberhard, John Jacob
Eberhard, Oscar Michael
Elkins, Frank Edgar
Emig, Frank Benjamin
Emig, Otto Jacob
Farley, Nye Lincoln
Fletcher, Alex. B.
ltairaud, Louis
Glendenning, James Eclward
28

Goetz, . Christian Herman
Goodrich, Edward Elizer
Gordon, Harry Virgil
Gruwell, Lawrence Chriss
Gruwell, Melvin Lawrence
Haman, Carl Wesley, P. M.
Hamilton, George Edward
Hamilton, Henry John
Hanscom, James Duane, P. M.
Hargreaves, Robert Henry
Harris, Albert
Hart, Orlando Elton
Hart, Richard Franklin
Hersey, Edward Johnson
Hillis, John Ralph
Hirsch, Emil George, P. M.
Hobson, Jesse Iris
Horst, William, Jr.
Hutchinson, James
Irwin, Samuel Joseph
Isham, Wallace Place
Jackson, Newton Senter
Johnson, Carl Frederick
Johnson, William Henry
Killam, Amos Franklin
Kimberlin, Louis Melvin
Kohner, Ignatz
Kohner, :Max
Landrum, Andrew Jefferson, P. M.
Landrum, Thomas Moore
Lillick, Harry Andrew
Linderoth, Nels August
Long, Lafayette
Machefert, Frederick Leon Emile
MacSwain, Alex. Reginald
Maddox, Daniel Irwin
Mcintyre, Cyrus Albert
McWilliama, Glen
Menzel, Henry August
Menzel, Robert, P. M.
Miller, Calvin Wilson
Miller, John James
Moore, Cl).arles Edward
Morrison, John Cameron, P. M.

ROSTER.

434

Morrison, Kenneth
Morrison, Samuel Howland
Myers, Horace Asbury
Nelson, Virgil Elliott
Offield, Archibald Leonard
Offield, Lorenzo Adolphus, P. M.
Osborne, Antrim Edgar
Packscher, Maurice Goodtime
Parker, Joseph McConnell, P. M.
Parker, Wilber Fiske
Percival, Freeman Foster
Pfister, Henry Adolph
Quivey, Willard H enry
Raymond, William Creque
Rayner, Thomas Elkanah
Regnart, Carl Wetherell
Regnart, Percy Stuart, P. M.
Relph, Ovid Samuel
Rhodes, Jay Cloyd Barras
Rice, Delmer Sherman
Roberts, William Henry
Roll, John
Roop, George Benjamin
Rucker, Robert Russel
Rusconi, Vincent
Russell, Lawrence
Shields, James Ralph
Shields, James Robert, P. M.
Shoemaker, James Allen, P. M.
Smith, Frank Nichols

ROSTER.

Smith, George Warren
Smith, Henry Kendall
Smith, Spencer Monroe
Smith, Thomas Henry
Slllith, William Henry
Snively, Daniel
Stanley, Edward Payson
Stelling, Henry Gottlieb
Stocking, Leonard Emiah
Street, William Roe
Taylor, John Moss
Teubner, Gustave Louis
Thompson, John Homer
Thompson, Thomas S.
Trevarrow, Anthony
Trogden, Wiley Hudelston, P. M.
Tully, George Franklin
Tully, Sylvanus Giles
Underwood, Alex. Richard
Van Dine, Melvin Everett
Waelty, Edward Henry
Waste, John Morton
Werner, William Henry
Whybark, George Washington
Wilkinson, Samuel Wallworth
Williams, Harry Lee
Withrow, Ralph Vargrave
Worrall, George H.
Zumwalt, Don John

REDLANDS LODGE, No.

Redlands, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

•

-147

WITHDRAWN:
Morrison, Norman Donald
DIED:
Shields; William Anderson

300.

•

William Lamborn Pyle, }.faster,
Carey Thomas Wright, Sen. Deacon,
Lymon Maurice King, Senior War., Clifton E. Sanborn, Junior Deacon,
Noah Lee Levering, Junior Warden, Harry Horne, M.arshal,
Robert Morris Hamilton, Treasurer, Paul Walter Moore, Steward,
Otto George Suess, Secretary,
Michael Henry Fitzsimmons, Steward.
John Day Easter, Chaplain,
Samuel S. Waldo, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Abbey, Chai.les Coy
Allen, Halsey Warren, P. M.
Anderson, John Young
Ansley, James Gilbert
Bailey, Charles Frederick
Barker, George Henry
Barton, William Thomas
Ball, Archibald E.
Baughman, Charles H.
Bay, Alva Clinton
Beer, James Clark
Benson, Ralph William
Birch, James
Bishop, Peter Stephen
Boberick, John Joseph
Branckman, Cornelius
Brock, Archibald Ellison
Brown, Charles Corey
Brown, Charles Milton, P. M.
Browning, Charles Clifton
Brunn, Christian P .
Bryan, Edwin Horace
Burk, Carl Gustave
Burns, Ulysses Grant
Campbell, Walter McNutt, P. M.
Carlson, Carl Otto
Case, Alonzo
Case, Ameron A.
Cave, Bennett White
Champion, Fred
Clark, Charles William

Clark, Lemuel Watson
Gloek, Charles Livingston
Clock, Fred H.
Coffee, Luen
Cook, Alexander Bradshaw
Cook, William Omar
Cortner, George Paul
Covington, William Dockrey
Crafts, George Herbert
Craig, Scipeo
Dart, Lewis Sidney
Davis, Alva Sylvester
Davis, Charles E.
Deck, Lewis
Deming, Harvey Clayton
Diss, ,John Wallace Fox
Doran, William A.
Dostal, John· Frank
Drake, James Frederic~ P. M. .:t.I
Drake, Robert Zale
11a~J
Easter, John Day
•"811hsv~J
Eaton, Clement Hond
-!tVl'l';8 ,JlniJ
Estle, Charles Bernar<l;8 I'rhodVT. '
Field, Jasper Newt~rrrorfT ,baslJ iM
Fine, William Iswg lfa.s'I'if "'F 1-.esM
Fitzsimmons, Miclihsl<JHpl; ,..1 •llr
Ford, HarryoIWtMa-!Mfilai'/ ,ffod9tfl.f
Fowler;j~1rlliJ'8W'.)0 ,"'{'I9ffi0'3:1 aol·II
Gaylord, Cass blIRIIifr19'i[ ,Isgi1 ·
Gaylord, Clintoirle,tltiert1nifl3 , l'I"' ' r
~re, John WesleJ9:!1.BW Jrrsq ,-nooM

436

..

Guthrie, Edmond Pierce
Hagan, John Reese
Hall, Cassius M.
Hamilton, John W.
Hamilton, Robert Morris, P. M.
Hart, Alex. Hamilton
Hatch, Albert Wilson
Heitman, John Barston
Hendrickson, Andrew Jackson
Hines, Frank Benjamin
Hird, John Preston
Hobart, Charles H., P. M.
Hotchkiss, Fred E.
Hough, Ira Millard
Horne, Harry, P. M.
Hoyt, Charles·Harmon
Inch, Thomas Benjamin
Johnson, Benton Oscar
Johnson, Nathan Augustus
Johnson, ·William M.
Johnstone, Herbert W.
Kennard, George Gilbert
Kennedy, Duncan
King, Anderson Whitney
King, Lymon Maurice
Kingsbury, Homer P. Donalds<>n
Kline, William N.
·
Koehlel, George William
Lafferty, John C.
Lansdom, Lincoln E.
Larue, William T .
Laird, Alex.
Leland, GeoPge H.
Leonard, Arthur James
Levering, Noah Lee
Link, Sylvester
McWhorter, Cyrus S.
Medland, Thomas James
Meserve, Frank Pierce, P. M.
Milligan, Joseph C.
Mitchell, Vinton Littleton
Montgomery, George Washington
Montigal, Ferdinand
Moore, Elliott Augustus
Moore, Paul Walter

ROSTER.
Moore, William Herbert
Morrison, Frank Pierce
Mosbough, Edwin Harvey
Myers, Robert H.
Nelson, Arthur Pinkory
Newton, William Martin
Nutter, Frank Wilbur
O'Kelley, Robert Charles
Osbun, Albert
Parlett, Arthur Clarence
Patton, Herbert
Peel, Thomas Leopold
Pentland, David
Phinney, Mellen Davis
Phinney, Mellen Mosher•
Pierce, Martin Frank, P. M .
Prendergast, Jeffrey Joseph, P. M.
Prescott, Frank Clark
Pyre, William Lamborn
Reed, Davis Craig, P. M.
Reeder, Thomas Benton
Reid, Clarence Samuel
Richardson, John Franklin
Riggs, James Sherburne
Ring, William
Ritchey, James Thomas
Rivera, Joseph Apollo
Rockwell, Sidney Eason
Roundstone, Jacob
Ryer, George C.
Sanborn, Christopher Allen
Sanborn, Clifton E.
Setch:field, Richard
.Skuce, Charles Elbin
Sparks, David Ernest
Sparks, Earl Leland
Springberg, Alfred Emile
Stearns, Augustus George
Steele, Louis Seymour
Stefan, Frederick Joseph
Steward, Joseph Ireland
Stewart, William Hugh
Stone, James Albert, P. M.
Suess, ,Jacob John, P. M.
Suess, Otto George

ROSTER.
Taylor, Albert Edwin, P. M.
Thaxter, George C.
Thornton, Thomas
True, Alfred Adams
Truesdell, Charles E.
Tuck, Edward Payson
Tyler, Hoell
Vahey, Charles E.
Waldo, Samuel S.
Wales, Frank Adelbert
Wallace, John Easton

•

*Cantrell, David Gooding
Harris, Charles Omer

437

Warren, Eugene Charles
Wheat, James Madison
. White, William Lewis
Williams, Silas
Wilmot, Paul Walter
Woodside, William
Wright, Carey Thomas
Wright, William K.
Yost; Charles
Zimmerman, Milton
-173

WITHDRAWN:
Stults, William L.
Vesper, Charles Richard
Whitson, Walter Verne
DIED :
Elkins, William Samuel

ONTARIO LODGE, No.

301.

Ontario, San Bernardino County.
Stat.ed Meetings, :first Friday in" each month.
OFFICERS:

..

Edward Charles Blain, Master,
Guy Edward Dyar, S enior Deacon,
Wm. Francis Blaikie, Sen. Warden, Albert Dennis Hagaman, Jun. Dea.,
'Vm. Kem Merrill, Junior Warden, Cassime.r B. Kustel, Marshal,
Cornelius G. H. Bennink, Treasurer; Esta B. Burleson, Steward,
Robert 0 . Brackenridge, Secretary, Solon Young Russell, Stc'lQard,
Wilbur Walstein Smith, Chaplain, Isaac W. Whitaker, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Brackenridge, Robert Orwig
Andrews, Josias J.
Bradley, Le Roy
Armstrong, Abel
Broad, Thomas
Armstrong, John Samuel
Burleson, Esta B.
Banks, John Wesley
Caldwell, John Volmer
Beesley, George Edward
Catto, William
Bennink, Cornelius G. Henry
Chipps, William Clay
Blaikie, William Francis
Clark, Henry
Blain, Charles Edward
Clark, John A.
Blood, Samuel Gilson
• Restorerl rluring the year .

438

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Motsinger, Jacob L.
Cohn, John Edward
Collins, William Edwin
Murphy, William Roe
Nichols, Thomas Milan
Crane, ·George Rice
Cutler, Lewis Tasheira
Palmer, Alva Hiland
Dyar, Guy Edward
Palmer, Millard Fillmore
Faron, Lewis Haile
Payne, Jesse Howard
Ford, Charles Benjamin, P. M.
Payne, William Edward
Frankish, Charles
Phillips, Hickman
Fredendall, John Frank
Powell, John Benjamin
Glass, Silas Franklin
Powell, William Harris
Rarick, John
Glenn, Byron Price
Gray, Robert, P. M.
Rhodes, Edwin
Hagaman, Albert Dennis
Robertson, John Polk, P . M.
Rosenberger, William Dayton
Hatcher, James Henderson
Henry, William Penn
Russell, Solon Young
Hill, Eugene Leroy
Sawyer, Francis Lewis
Shepherd, Benjamin Chaffey, P. M.
Holbrook, George Robert
Holbrook, Jay
Sheppard, Christopher
Jackson, Harrison Webster
Short, Richard Childs
Jesson, Jacob
Simpson, William D.
Johns, Lloyd Garrison
Smith, George :Pettit
Kennedy, Harry Clayton
Smith, Lovias Olin Perry H.
Kustel, Cassimer Berringer
Smith, Wilbur Walstein, P. M.
Southworth, Alva Morrison
Lee, Dorr B.
Spalding, James
Lee, John S.
Lee, Lane R.
Spencer, Ripley F.
Linder. Lee
Terrill, William Peacham
Lord, George Johnston
Thompson, Albert Henry
MacLeod, Malcom H.
Tyler, Labien Jeheil Elmer
Magill, Robert David
Vanoegrift, Samuel G.
Magly, Jesse Elmer
Van Wormer, Edwin B.
Mann, Bathurst Billers
Wheeler, Henry F.
McMinn, James L.
"Whitaker, Isaac Whitaker
McQuigg, Martin Van Buren, P. M. Wigglesworth, Alunbert G.
Merrill, William Kern
Williams, Bertram Eldred
Minter, Frank
Wright, Jake Cullen
Moore, Albert Dean, P. M.
Zenze, Anton
Mor;ris, John Todd
-93

s:

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Corder, Lewis Thomas
Smith, Rinaldo James
DIED:
Childs, .Job Warrin

Ford, Byron
Morse, Clement Ray

439

SANTA LUCIA LODGE, No. 302.
King's City, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

•

George Philip Henry, Master,
Wm. Clayton Hamilton, Sen. Deacon,
Walter Johnston Lumley, Sen. War., John Fielding Harbolt, Jun. Deacon,
Frank Harloe Westlake, Jun. Ward., John Domianovich, Marshal,
Harry Edward Wetzel, Treasurer, John Calhoun Prewitt, Steward,
Wm. Madison Branstetter, Steward,
Joseph Rice, Secreta.ry,
David Leese, Tyler.
John Whitam, Chaplain,
Allen, Robert Ralston, P. M.
Beane, John Worlock
Basham, Robert Matteson
Beebe, Frank Merritt, P. M.
Besse, John Nelson, P. M.
Branstetter, William Madison
Brown, James M.
Bunte, Herman Deatrich
Bunte, Samuel Nahman
Copley, Andrew Jackson
Domianovich, John
Eaton, Edwin Alex., P . M.
Gates, Frederick Wellings
Griswold, William
Hamilton, William Clayton
Hanning, Charles Albert
Harboldt, John Fielding
Hedgpeth, William Rufus
Henry, George Philip, P. M.
Keef, Robert Melvin
Landrum, Joseph McKendric

MEMBERS:
Leese, David
Long, Joseph Johnson, Jr.
Lumley, Walter Johnston
Melander, Charles Richard, P. M.
Montgomery, Herbert Chester
Patterson, Alex., P. M.
Rapp, Jacob D.
Reynolds, Arthur Eugene
Rice, .Toseph
Rogers, Robert James
Sawyer, Charles Waite
Schroeder, Frederick Wilham
Smith, Percy Hatton
Stevenson, William Grant, P.•M.
Thorpe, George C.
Wallis, Daniel Whitfield
Warren, Alfred
Westlake, Frank Harloe, P. M.
Whitam, John
Wood, William Abraham
Wetzel, Harry Edward
-42

Dnm:
Friede, William

440

•

ROSTER.

PORTERVILLE LODGE, No. 303.
Porterville, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
Charles H. Claubes, Master,
Walter Sylvester Shippey, Sen. Dea.,
Todd Cornelius Claubes, Sen. War., Andrew Allan Leslie, Junior Deacon,
Allan Rutherford Laidlaw, Jr: W., Fred Ward Velie, Marshal,
Milko Mentz, Treas11rer,
John August Leslie, Steward,
Joseph Franklin Wright, Secretary, Benjamin Allen, Steward,
Samuel Thompson Gilliam, Chaplain, Gustaf Adolf Ekman, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baker, Nils
Gil!iam, Samuel Thompson
Baker, Swan
Grant, William Henry
BPi.er. "Philip Murray
Hale, George Hoyl
Barberro, Harry Lee
Hall, John ·Dollar
Bearss, Frederick Ellsworth, P. M. Hand, Clifford Nott
Bearse, John Theo.
Hathaway, Harry May .
Black, Franklin Ellsworth
Hayes, James Crayton •
Bolfing, Charles Thomas
Henderson, Marion K.
Boller, Frank Villette
Henderson, Thomas Edwin
Boller, Jacob Franklin, P. M.
Henry, Rufus Francis ·
Brey, Hiram F., P. M.
Hewey, John William Ernest
Brooks, William Herbert
Higgins, Charles Raymond
Burford, Marvin Alvah
Hodges, Charles Raymond
Caldwell, Wm. Alex. Franklin
Hoover, joseph Laird
Carle, Charles Joshua
Horbach, Robert, P. M.
Carpenter, Byron L.
Hornbeak, Montgomery Adams
Clark, Frank
Howell, James
Claubes, Charles H.
Howell, John Andrew
Claubes, Leslie Vineyard
Hughes, Hugh John
Claubes, Henry Erving
James, John Henry
Claubes, Todd Cornelius
Jones, Wiley Franklin
Cramer, Moses Lockhart
Kessler, Joseph Pyle
Davis, Josiah Winter
Laidlaw, Allan Rutherford
DeWitt, Marcus Elmo
Lambdin, Harry Willis
Dinwiddie, James Lockridge, Jr.
King, Guilford Dudley
Ekman, Gustaf Adolf
Leslie, Andrew
Feemster, Robert Frank
Leslie, Andrew Allan
Flaugh!lr• John Daulton .
Leslie, Frederick Arthur
Frame, Harvey Andrew
Leslie, John August
Frankum, George Taylor
Leslie, William Walter
Gilbert, Samuel Jonatha~ R., P. M. Lewis, James Sylvanus

ROSTER.
Lickyer, George
Lord, Mount Cloud
Lumley, Aubrey Montague
Lumley, Gerald Robert
:McDonald, Robert Henry
:McFarland, Robert West
:Mcintyre, Thomas
:McKeany, Edward Montgomery
Mentz, Wilko
:Mitchell, Joseph
:Mitchell, Mike
Mooney, William
Murphy, George ChristQpher, P. M.
Murry, George Gordon
Nesbitt, Charles Wesley
Newbury, Andrew Jackson B.
Owen, Levi Milton
Porter, John Harvey
Price, Thomas Lawrence
Putnam, Willie Porter
Reynolds, Amos H.
Robbins, George Lovell
Rogers, Carroll Bishop
Root, Coryden Bee
Schulz, Adolph Gustav, P. M.
Schulz, Harry August, P. M.

441

Schulz, Lou Ernest
Scott, Eugene Louis
Scott, John
Settle, James Pendleton
Shippey, Walter Sylvester
Stone, Frederick
Sutherland, Bert John
Templeton, Hugh
'.l:empleton, John Lee
Traeger, Charles Alber't
Traeger, Henry Godfrey
Ulmer, Joseph Ames
Van Deusen, Ezra Bullar
V.elie, Fred Ward, P. M.
Ward, Jackson Orrin
Wessman, John August
White, Ernest Nathamel
White, James Smith
Williams, John Howard
Williams, Robert. George, P. M.
Winters, Lewis William
Woodley, Frank Erwin
Wright, Hiram Roy
Wright, Joseph Franklin, P. M.
Wright, William Whitfield
Young, William Moore
-114

WITHDRAWN:
Landram, George Bell
DIED:
*Hinkle, Jesse
Pohlman, Louis

Hall, James

REEDLEY LODGE, No. 304.
Reedley, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Max W. Beadle, Master,
John Cameron McCubbin, Sen. Dea.,
Marion Deneen, Senior Warden,
John McBriar, Junior Deacon,.
Harry Frank Winnes, Junior Ward., Daniel Lyle Reed, Marshal,
Carey Woods Mathews, Treasurer, Albert Thomas Bollinger, Stew'brd,
Roswell Beebe Hathaway, Steward,
Wm. Wesley Green, Secretary,
James Walker Shipe, Tyler.
Clarence Alvin Hale, Chaplain,
•Affiliated during the year .

..

442

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:

Acker, Arthur Van
Barnes, Charley Leveritte
Beadle, Max W.
Bollinger, Albert Thomas
Bollinger, John Franklin
Chisolm, Joseph Robert
Clarke, William Henry
Coffin, Christian August
Crossfield, Otto Johannis
Davies, Walter Young
Deneen, Marion
Dudley, Christopher, P. M.
Gebhart, Erastus Manford
Green, William Wesley
Gummow, Charles
Hale, Clarence Alvin
Hathaway, Roswell Rube
Hawkins, George Augu!'ltus, P. M.
Hawkins, William Laru
Hedgpeth, George Foster P.
Lombardi, Julius Caesar

Mathews, Carey Woods
McBriar, John
McClanahan, Allen Ensley
McCubbin, John Cameron
McDonald, David Chalmer
Moomaw, Joseph Burson
Neil, James Polk
Neil, William Rice
Osterhout, Frank Edward
Osterhout, George William
Oulevey, Ernest Eugene
Pugh, John James
Rankine, John
Reed, Daniel Lyle
Shipe, James Walker
Simpson, David Calvin
Sowell, William Henry
Thomas, John Neil
Wasgatt, Frederick Marcian
Woods, William
Winnes, Harry Frank
--42

WITHDRAWN:
Angel, Linzey C.
Hills, Arthur Augustus
t Ayers, Isaac Van
Hills, Frederick William
Brown, Major
"Knott, Bruce Forrest
Bump, Addison .Joseph
tLewis, Thomas M.
"Bump, Charles Addison
Martin, Ray D.
*Bump, Frank N orvill
McLemore, Calvin Arthur
Black, John Douglass
Morgan, Nelson W.
Blackledge, Lindley N.
Reed, John Rayson
Cress, Jacob Daniel
Rhodes, John Livingstone
tCanby, Joseph Fountain
Redd, James Eaton
tCampbell, Charles
Scoggins, Andrew J.
Feaster, William Alvis
tTrammel, Ueorge F .
tWyman, William Christie
• Degrees conferred during the year.
t Affiliated during the year.

•
ROSTER.

443

AZUSA LODGE, No. 305.
Azusa, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Jasper Chester Mathias, Master,
John G. Woodward, Senior Deacon,
Charles Oscar Ream, Senior Warden, Frank R. Smith, Junior Deacon,
Thomas F. Heth, Junior Warden,
Charles H . Lee, Marshal,
John Wm. Calvert, Treasurer,
Wallace L. Howard, St1ward,
Wm. Orlando Streshly, Secretary, Conrad L. Smith, Steward,
Robert S. Ramsaur, Chaplain,
George W . Juden, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Gordon, Charles Franklin
Gordon, George Basil
Gordon, Hugh Taylor
Hall, Almon Asa
Hall, Hiram Thomas
Heimbaugh, James Wilson
Heth, Thomas F.
Heth, William W., P. M.
Howard, Wallace Lawton
Huber, Julius Edmund, P. M.
Juden, George Washington
Lee, Charles Henry, P. M.
Mace, Edwin
Martens, George, P. M.
Mathias, Jasper Chester
Mattatall, Levi Peter
McNair, William Righten
McNair, Donald Wallace
Metcalfe, James. Arthur
Moran, George Wallace
Morgan, Don De Witt, P. M.
Newby, Robert Daniels
Noel, Charles Lee
Noel, John Thomas
Ramsaur, Ben Walker
Ramsaur, Robert Shuford
Ream, Charles Oscar
Richter, Ernest George
Robertson, Benjamin Columbus
Rogers, Andrew Berry
Rury, Henry

Aikman, William
Anderson, Julius Hickok
Barker, William Thomas
Beardslee, David Arthur
Bernard, Kenneth Lee
Bidwell, Rolfe Bishop
Bierbower, Hugh Reed
Braddy, William
Briggs, Henry Dwight
Burt, Oscar Marshall
Calvert, John William, P. M.
Casey, Ben Shane
Casey, Charles Clark
Clark, Fred Longworth, P. M.
Coffman, Charles Henry
Cole, Winfield Scott
Coulter, Herbert M.
Crane, Edgar Willis
Crickmore, Joseph Clinton
Daly, John E.
Dawson, Robert Wesley, P. M.
De Shields, John Walter
Dingman, Frank Lincoln
Dougherty, William Emmet
· Ellis, Samuel Augusta, P. M.
Flick, David Thomas
Follows, Ralph Morton
Foote, John Lafayette
Fox, Edward Albert
Fraisher, Robert Love
Fraisher, William Wash.

444

ROSTER.

Rury, William Isaac
Sawyer, Robert Henry, Jr.
Sheldon, William Adams, P, M.
Sitton, Jerry
Smith, Conrad Leelie
Smith, Delta Cornelius
Smith, Frank Richard
Stark, Riney

ROSTER.

Streshly, William Orlando
Wade, Willard J., P. M.
Ward, Herbert Ellsworth
Weeks, George Warren, P. M.
Wetherby, John Francis ·
Wilson, Hiram L.
Woodward, John. Geoffrey.

-71

WITHDRAWN:
*Sibley, Josiah
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES: '
Fraisher, Claude Melnott
Le Baron, Eugene
DIED:
Johnson, Harry Sparks

ASHLAR LODGE, No. 306.
Colton, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Chas. Browning, Master,
James Macdougall, Senior Deacon,
Frank Russell Warnick, Sen. War., Arthur Gilbert Thornton, Inn. Dea.,
Eugene Wm. Cosgrove, Jun. Ward., Ormiston L. Emery, Marshal,
Chester W. Curtis, Treasurer,
Wilson Creal Hanna, Steward,
John Bennett Hanna, Secretary,
Oscar Gerard Crawford, Steward,
Elton Samuel Colvin, Chaplain,
Fred'k William Wilber, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adkins, Thomas Stanton
Andrews, John Jay
Andrews, Samuel Edward
Barmour, Wp.rren
Beach, Wesley Heman
Boalich, George
Bright, Frederick Richard
Brink, Irwin William, P. M.
Browning, Thomas Charles
Brooks, Silas Fletcher
Bruce, Charles Alber~
•Degrees conferred during the year.

Bruce, David Frederick
Burrall, George Edward, P. M.
Carr, Elijah Goodrich
Caster, George Brinton, P. M.
Champion, Josepn Austin
Clark, Ward Eastman
Colvin, Elton Samuel
Colyer, Fred Wilber
Cook, Charles Cecil
Cosgrove, Eugene William
Creamer, Edward Franklin

•

445

Merkley, John Lawrence
Culross, William Burdick
Minnick, Albert
Cnrtis, Chester W.
Monnet, James Larrison
Deakins, Robert Lee
Morris, Cramer Bismark
Devlin, Andrew Jackson
Nauert, Charles
Emery Ormiston L.
Newcomer, Lyle Caleb
Fox, Abram Stoner
Perrin, William Artemas
Gordon, William Clark
Pumphrey, William Byron
Green, George Matthew, P. M.
Purdum, Wade
Hamelton, Charles Barnes
Ratliff, Milton Sexton
Hall\erly, John Wash.
Ripley, Thomas Freed
Hanna, John Bennett, P . M.
Robinson, Devillo
Hanna, Wilson Creal
Rutherford, John Dew
Rap.sen, James William
.Sharpe, john Jack
Hart, Joe Thomas
Shepley, Bertie Halsey Wm. L.
Hays, Wilson
Smith, Howard Burton, P. M.
Hebberd, Walter Channing
Smith, Thomas James
Hendee, Thomas Frederick
Higgs, Albert James
Solomon, Meyer
Johnson, William Curtis
Spring, Adolphus Duane
Johnston, Charles Edward
Stone, Byron Andrew
Jones, Henry
Stone, William Eli
Kirsch, Karl Eugene
Strong, Donald Watkins
Knox, James David
Swartz, Daniel Crist
Swepston, Mayo Bundy
Lancaster, James Wash.
Thornton, Arthur Gilbert
Lash, Frank Gilbert
Vogel, Herman Gottleib
Lightfoot, Silas Swallow
Ward, William Gillmore
Lockhart, Thomas Reed
Warner, Josephus Darby
Macdougall, James
Madison, Forest Lamont
Warnick, Frank Russel
Wetteroth, Frederick
Martin, Robert Johnston
Wilber, William Frederick
Matot, John Ernest, P. M.
McChane, Alex. Campbell
Wilcox, Wilson Wallace
Wilkerson, Eugene Baker
McGregor, John
McLean, William Bernard
Wright, Albert
-91
McKinney, John Alex.
WITHDRAWN :
Cole, William Delaware
McKinney, Edward C.
Franklin, Ruben Henry
Rollins, Henry Harrison
Toprahanian, Armenague G.
DIED:
Pierce, George Sewell

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

446

Summerfield, Kennedy Brown
Mooser, Joseph Nathan
Sweet, Alonzo Frederick
Odell, Samuel William
Sweetzer, Edward Healy
Peak, Emmet Steadman
Tanner, Richard Robert
Peterson, Lauritz Angkjar
Taylor, James Wesley E.
Poage, Gratton Elijah
Thomas, Charles Henry
Proctor, John Burton
Tullis, Oliver Grant, P. M.
Pulham, John Alvin ·
Vogel, Frank William
Reynolds, James Walter
Volkman, Martin Francis
Rockwell, Lorenzo Anson, P. M.
Volkman, Martin Henry
Schader, Carl Francis
·
Webb, Henry Horace
Sheckles, Eugene Casserley
Webb, Perry Horace
Smith, John Byron
Wheeler, Samuel A.
Smith, Nathan Franklin, P. M.
Wilson, Earl Alonzo
Spies, Henry Alvin
Young, Eugene Louis
Steen, Harold
Zander, William Edward
Stewart, Joseph Brown
Sues, Bernard
WITHDRAWN:
Lowman, Zachariah Henry
Conklin, Martin H.
Wait, Dudley Munroe
Field, Henry Demetrius

SANTA MONICA LODGE, No. 307.
Santa Monica, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Niles Rathbone Folsom, Master,
Adelbert David Hawes, Senior Dea.,
Henry John Engelbrecht, Sen. War., Martin Edgar Balsley, Junior Deacon,
James Henry Jackson, Jun. Warden, John Charles Hemingway, Marshal,
Charles H . Powers, Treasurer,
Benj . Franklin Failor, Steward,
Charles Henry Thomas, S ecretary, William Newton Barrow, Steward,
Samuel A. Wheeler, Tyler.
John D. H . Browne, Chaplain,
Balsley, Benjamin Lewis
Balsley, Ben Randale
Balsley, Martin Edgar
Barker, Alvin Perry
Barrow, William Newton
Bloye, Herbert Arthur
Bontty, Edward Frank
Boston, Andrew Jackson
Boxall, William Louis
Braden, John Charles
Brown, Thomas Pollock
Browne, John Davidson H.
Carlisle, Earnest Otway
Carpenter, Stephen Fisk
Case, Lynn Hess
Case, Samuel Hess
Chambers, William Henry
Chambers, Willie Lee
Coffman, Harry Lee
Dales, Charles Scott
Dales, Edward Verner, P. M.
Dexter, George Byrd, P. M.
Dombrowski, Gottlieb
Doty, George Francis
Dudley, Thomas Horace
Dunham·, James Elias, P. M.
Elser, Frederick
Emerson, Edward
• Engelbrecht, Henry John
Failor, Benjamin Franklin
Feather, Marcus D.

MEMBERS:
Fife, William Wilson
Folsom, Niles Rathbone, P. M.
Gidley, Frank Perry
Gillis, Robert Conran
Gillis, William Templeman, P. M.
Goehring, Herman Franz
Goldman, Isaac St. Clair
Hamilton, Newell Hiram
Hasse, Carl Edward
Hawes, Albert David
H€·ath, Stacie Ross
Hemingway, John Charles
Hostetter, William Morgan
Hunt, John Standish
Hunter, John Stuart
Hutton, George Howard
Jackson, Arthur Ed~und
.Tackson, James Henry
Jamison, Allen Muir
Jenkins, Robert Chesle)•
Keller, Henry Workman, P. M.
Kennedy, James Wash.
Kennedy, John
Kimball, Myron Holly
LaBerge, Joseph Rosario
Lehman, August Herman
Lockwood, William Salte
McHenry, William A.
McPherson, A. William
Miller, Robert Meek
Mooser, Leon Nutin

447

-95

SUSPENDED .FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Caister, Ephraim Elva

Haefner, John
Rising, Edward Julius

MONROVIA LODGE, No. 308.
Monrovia, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

•

George Erntst Powell, Master,
Edmund Elnathan Knepper, Sr. Dea.,
Clarence C. Bowerman, Senior War., Leonard Ed. Hotchkiss, Jun,. Deacon,
Charlie Taylor Renaker, Jun. War., James William Harvey, Marshal,
John Henry Bartle, Treasurer,
Ebenezer Ingram, Steward,
Cassius Fremont Moore, Secretary, Hal Maxwell Stemons, Steward,
John S. Allison, Chaplain,
Richard Bates Cowan, Tyler.
:\\!EMBERS:
Baker, Herbert Lewis
Bardill, John Warren
Barnes, Leonidas

Anderson, Charles
Armstrong, Edward Spence, P. M.
Bacon, Williamson Ware

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

448

Barnes, Samuel William
Bartle, John Henry
Barth, Otto Frank
Bowerman, Clarence Clark
Brooks, William Alden
Casner, Charles Wesley
Cooper, Victor Roscoe
Cornes, Frank J., P. M.
Cowan, Richard Bates, P. M.
·
Crandall, Horace E.
Crandell, John Abner
Cronenwett, Albert Emanuel
Deutsch, Emile
Deutsch, William Emile
Dunn, John
Esberger, Max Ernest
Esberger, Michael Joseph
Farman, Willis Edward
Fowler, Hardiman
Fowler, Joseph, P. M.
Fulton, Frederick Gans
Glenny, Thomas
Godlove, William Asbury
Griffith, Ira Jackson
Handley, Damon Carl
Harris, Jonathan Bentley
Harvey, James William, P. M.
Hawes, Frederick Norman .
Hayes, John
Hinters, Adolph Christian
Hotchkiss, Leonard Edward
Howell, Franklin Davenport
Ingersoll, Charles Kelly
Johnson, Albert Hurlbut
Gerhart, Bayless Wall er

Jones, Lester M .
Knapp, Edward Walter
Kramer, Gottlob William
Lemberger, Arleigh Franceese
Macfarlane, Walter
Monroe, CamP.bell Otto
Moore, Cassius Fremont
Neely, Robert Hugh
Northup, Eugene Daniel
Pinney, Elbert
Pottol, Robert
Powell, George Ernest
Prindle, Edward Manvill
Reed, John Wallace
Reese, Arthur William, P. M.
Rehrman, Charles
Renaker, Charlie Taylor
Sawyer, Reuben Anderson
Spence, Edward Follis, P. M.
Spence, William Parker, P. M.
Strive, John Harvey, P. M.
Thomae, Herbert John
Tuggle, William Erwin
Udell, Herbert George
Ward, Francis Melville
Wardall, Ralph Hugh
Wardall, Ray Clifford
Wardall, Thomas
Wheeler, Lawrence Newton, P. M.
Whitaker, William Wallace, P. M.
White, Genius
Woolley, John Karl
Woolley, Pardon Sebastian.
-73

WITHDRAWN:
Mendell, George Her~himer

449

DELANO LODGE, No. 309.
Delano, Kem County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Archibald Sheppard, .Master,
Ernest Hastings Ramsay, Sen. Dea.,
Alex. Sames Kramer, Sen. Warden, Clay Benj. Thomas, Junior Deacon,
Ralph Waldo Ammons, Jun. War., Henry David Zimmerman, Marshal,
William L. Smith, Treasurer,
Orie Oliver Robertson, Steward,
John Jacob Schlitz, Secretary,
· Christian Wm. Cline, Steward,
Auguste Perrier, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Hughes, George Franklin
Allen, Marcus D.
Kitchen, Charles Edwin
Ammons, Ralph Waldo
Kramer, Alex. Sames, P. M.
Bawtinheimer, Clarence ·Lauson
Lary, Clyde Clifton
Bonnabel, Jean
Perrier, Auguste
Buchanan, Frank Auguste
Ramsay, Ernest Hastings
Bulock, Arthur Brown
Schlitz, John Jacob, P. M.
Burton, Ebenezer Scott
Scruggs, Eldridge Cade Wood
Cecil, Dan Leander
Sheppard, Archibald
Cline, Christian William, P. M.
Smith, William Lannon
Crangle, John
Thomas, Anthony Harrington
Dorsey, Richard Valentine
Thomas, Benjamin, P. 1\11.
Duggins, James Madison
Thomas, Clay Benjamin
Egger, John Samuel
Van Valer, Clarence Alpha
Eustache, Jean Etienne
Witterow, John Russell
Faure, Joseph
Zimmerman, Henry David, P. M.
Faure, Peter
-33
Howard, Frank Byron
Hudson, Julien Wiley

WITHDRAWN:
Loose, Herman

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hobart, Benjamin Franklin

DIED:
Barnes, Charles Washington

DIED:
De Witt, Asahel Henry

29

450

•

ROSTER.

SISSON LODGE, No.

ROSTER.
310.

Sisson, Siskiyou County.

Williams, Horace Albert
Williams, Edward Charles
Wood, Oscar Hiram, P. M.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edward H. Kaupp, Master,
John C. Adams, Senior Deacon
Oscar H. Wood, Senior Warden
Fenton G. Thompson, Junior D;aco"
John C. Johnson, Junior Warden: James Stevens, Marshal,
'
John W. Rinckel, Treasurer,
Elmer E. Hall, Steward,
Ralph W. Requa, Secretary,
John M. Schuler, Steward,
Hugh B. Andrews, Tyler.

451

Wright, Thomas Benton
Young, Eugene Vincent

-65
WITHDRAWN:

Fillinger, John William

Greene, George
Tripp, Charles Ammis

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Bowham, H. J.
Deetz, George Lewis
Middleton, John

Myers, George E.
Scholm1, George
Wheeler, Thomas R.
EXPELLED:

MEMBERS:
Adams, John Crittenden
Alexander, Samuel
Andrews, Hugh Blythe
Antone, Lee Leon
Amann, Joseph
Ball, Frank
Barnes, Willard Francis
Barr, Zachary Taylor
Bartlett, Wallace Coggins
Belcher, John Warren
Cass, Frederick Layton
Craig, Henry Alonzo
Culligan, Michael
Delaney, Joseph John
Durney, James Nathaniel
Edson, Archie Galen
Farnum, Edmund Truesdell
Glidden, Charles Edward, P. M.
Gridley, Wallace AuguMtus
Hall, Elmer Ernest
Harvey, James Maurice
Hoey, Henry Patrick
Hunt, Eugene William
Hunt, William Broderick
Johnson, John Charles
Jiaiser, Anselm Charles
Kaupp, Edward Hepperlen
Knight, Alton James
Leach, Martin Andrew
Liberoth, Niles West

Linsley, Carlos Shelt:m
McKea, John
McLellan, John Roger
Mugler, Albert
Mugler, Nicholas
Neidigh, David M.
Nichols, Frederick Byron
Painter, Joseph Lincoln
Peterson, Charles D.
Pratt, George Albert
Requa, Ralph Waldo
Rinckel, David Wesley
Rinckel, John Wesley
Ross, Henry F.
Saul, Theodore Julius·
Sawyer, Joseph Clark
Sawyer, Nathan
Schuler, John Martin
Shebley, Frank Albert
Shebley, William Henry, P. M.
Sheldon, Darwin Alonzo
Smiley, Albert Parah
Smith, Charles Caswell
Sollner, John B., P. M.
Stevens, James, P. M.
Sullaway, John William
Taylor, Alex. Stuart
Thompson, Fenton Graham
Weed, Abner
Wickham, Charles

Coggins, Charles W.

LOS BANOS LODGE, No. 312.
Los Banos, Merced County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Edward Martin Kruger, Master,
Wm. Jasper Stockton, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Mason Roberts, Senior Ward., Joseph Elmer Place, Junior Deacon,
Thomas Marrion Hall, Jun. Ward., John Fred'k Muth, Marshal,
Adolphus Henry Salan, Treasurer, Wm. Walter Wright, Steward,
Charles Fred'k Wade, Secretary,
Nicholas Bibby, Steward,
Frederick Bachle, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Akard, Joseph Green
.Kruger, Edward Martin
Arbios, Henry Bernard
Lacy, .Joseph
Bachle, Fred
Leaf, Robert Emmett
Bibby, Nicholas
Leonard, Dennis Allen
Cheatham, William Thomas
Mitchell, James
Clare, Frank
Mitchell, William John
Davis, Walter Mortimer
Muth, John Frederick
Dobrezensky, Joseph
Peterson, Fred Johannes J.
Drummond, John Quincy
Place, Josepn Elmer, P. M.
Elder, Charles Glenn
Roberts, William Mason
Grunig, Emil
Ryley, Samuel Paul
Hall, Thomas Marrion
Salan, Adolphus Henry, P. M.
Jameson, William Josiah, P. M.
Schumacher, William Edward

•

ROSTER.

452

453

ROSTER.

Shaffer, Frederick William
Smi~h, Burton
Stockton, William Jasper, P. M.
Torchiana, Henry A. Vane., P. M.

Lang, William John

Beacy, Samuel Newell

Wade, Charles Frederick, P. M.
Wiley, William Merrett, P. M.
Wright, William Walter
-33

WITHDRAWN:
Reeves, Robert Emmitt
DIED:
Davenport, William John
Vanderlip, Albert M.

TEHACHAPI LODGE, No. 313.
Tehachapi, Kem County.
Stated :Meetings, last Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Franklin C. -Chormicle, Master,
Robert B. Freeman, Senior Deacon,
Charles ·Heath, Senior Warden,
Jesse Elmer Hicks, Junior Deacon,
Phil Marx, !1mior Warden,
George Henry Pippitt, Marshal,
Walter B. Waterman, Treasurer,
Julius Durkee Moore, Steward,
Geo. Theron Van Voorhees, Sec.,
George Hastings, Steward,
John Hickey, Chaplain,
Burton M. Denison, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Asher, Arthur
Freeman, John Ban
Baird, Jamee
Garlock, Eugene Truman
Boden, Louie Frederick
Garlock, George Sylvester
Brewster, Charles Lindsey
Gillespie, Earl Richmond
Burges, George
Glenn, Jamee
Cavano, William Michael
Gray, William Slater
Centerno, Julee Bruneau
Greene, Charles Christopher
Chamberlain, Leroy William
Grubb, Jamee Coulter
Champion, Thomae Evelette
Hamilton, Hiram Culbreth
Chormicle, Franklin Crawford, P.M. Harrie, ,Jamee Erwin
Clark, Samuel Remington
Hastings, George
Coleman, Earl Victor
Heath, Charles
Cuddeback, William Nicholas
Hickey, John Haney
Hoxie, Frederick Stickney
Dartt, David James
Jacobs, Herman Manuel
Denison, Burton :Martin
Dodge, Norman :McClellen
Jenkins, Lenard Truman
Emery, William Oscar
Kelly, John William
Fletcher, John William
Kryetall, Samuel

Sheridan, John Henry, P. M.
x,ovejoy, Arthur Ed
Smith, Charles Henry
){acdonald, Reginald Edwin
Speakman, William Walter
){ar:x, Phil
Spencer, Patrick William Henry
:McCrea, George W ·
Sperry, Jacob Price
}lcFarlane, Peter James, P. M.
Staley, Abram
}lcKell, Jamee Robert
Strouse, ·Eelward Eugene
){oore, Julius Durkee
.
Sutton, William Henry
Newell, Daniel Boone
Nicholson, Edward James H., P. M. Switzer, Henry Wilmington
Thayer, Joseph Herriot
O'Hagen, John Walter
Thompson, John Walter
Osburn, Henry Emmet
Thorne, Walter Francis
Pentland, Walter Johnson
Tournot, Peter, P. M.
Peter, Jesse, Jr.
Turner, George Wyman
Pippitt, George Henry, P. M.
Tyler, :Matthew Hale
Pullman, Adolph Arthur
Vance, Lee Roy
Richter, William :Mortiz
Vance, William Harvey
Ripley, John
Vari Voorhees, Geo. Theron, P. M.
Scovern, Louie Glanville
Waage, John
Seymour, Edward Humphrey
Waterman, Walter Benjamin
Shackelford, Dick, P. M.
Whistler, William Henry
Shackelford, J ease Bell
Wilson, William Cabaniss
Shackelford, Marcus Sterling
Young, Austin
-82
Shackelford, Rowzee Foster
WITHDRAWN:
Belcher, Charles Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Atchison, Robert

TEMESCAL LODGE, No. 314.
Corona, Riverside County.
Stated :Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
James Lemuel Davis, Master,
John Patterson K~y, Seni?r Deacon,
Albert Clark Wood, Senior Warden, Harry Frank Scoville, Junior Deacon,
Cecil Byron Randall, Junior Ward ., Charles Median Scoville, Marshal,
Thomas P. Drinkwater, Treasurer, Luther Patton, Steward,
Albert Polk Kelley, Secretary,
Orvnie A. Huxsaw, Steward,
Henry Anson Prizer, Tyler.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

454

NORWALK LODGE, No. 315.

MEMBERS:
Alden, Fred Shelton
Andrews, Linus Lackner
Austin, George Morgan
Baer, George Nickey
Baird, Fred Milton
Barber, Rio Delos
Barth, William Christian, P. M.
Billings, Rufus Sumner
Bonfoey, Edward
Braun, John
Brown, George, P. M.
Brown, David Rowland
Bloom, Samuel Lincoln
Byler, Silas Russell
Cathey, Harry Willis
Chaney, Joseph Wesley, P. M.
Clayson, Marshal Emery
Cross, Alvin Harvey
Davis, Allen Jones
. Davis, James Lemuel
Dean, Gustavus Franklin, P. M.
Drinkwater, Thomas Paine
Freeman, George Robert
Glass, Joh.n Dennen
Gleason, Clifford V elovrous
Gooch, John Barton
Grinnell, James William
Gully, Cuthbert
Hammer, John Thomas
Harter, Elam
Holmes, Henry Harrison
Howard, John Murray
Hyde, John Church
Kelley, Albert Polk
Key, John Patterson
Kidder, Ethan Pier
Kinney, Charles Ashley

Larrabee, Arthur Hamilton, P. M.
Lockett, Sterling Wiley
Lord, Daniel
Lyman, Harry Lynn
Main, Charles William
Mayer, Michael Joseph
Mayfield, James Smith
McCarty, George Albert
McGillivary, George Brown
McNiel, David Carey
Mc Vicar, William Gray
Patton, Luther
Perkins, Frank Arthur, P. :M:.
Prizer, Henry Anson
Randall, Cecil Byron
Riddell, William
Scoville, Charles Median, P. M.
Scoville, Frank, P. M.
Scoville, Harry Frank
Scares, Isaac Newton
Somerville, William D.
Spining, Joseph Montfort
Sullivan, Thomas David
'l'hacker, George Scott
Tilson, Walter Nathaniel
Triolo, John Patrick
Trepening, Mason, P. M.
Tuthill, Arthur Brewster
Vankirk, George Wesley
Veach, Andrew
Willard, Stephen Sylvester
Willets, Robert Leander
Wollitz, Robert Max
Wood, Albert Clark
White, Arthur Burr
Wyatt, Charles Frederick

Norwalk, Los Angeles County.
Stated meetings, Tuesday of or n!lxt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

John Joseph Orr, Master,
George C. Buhen, Senior Deacon,
Frank Preston Sproul, Sen. Warden, Percy Peter Palange, Junior Deacon,
Clarence M. Glazier, Junior Warden, Nicolas Henry Hughes, Marshal,
James Hay, Treasurer,
Andrew B. Bradbeer, Steward,
Alphonso E. Dressell, Secretary,
Wm. Charles Sproul, Steward,
Michael A. Martin, Chaplain,
John Henry Sollinger, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Johnston, Darius David
Baker, John Samuel
Lumbard, Albert Dor
Bradbeer, Andrew B.
McCarrie, Franklin
Branch, John Franklin
Mason, Charles Cole
Buhen, George Christ
Neubauer, Simon
Burrows, Herbert Gates
Orr, Charles Augustus
Couchman, Harry Hawver
Orr, James Robert
Custer, Harrison K.
Orr, John Joseph
DeLong, James William
Petty, William Robert
DeWitt, Almond Dor
Rodgers, Charles
Dillman, Thomas Milton
Randall, Wallace
Dressen, Alphonso Edward, P. M.
Ray, Thomas Allen
Duncan, Charles Wilson, P. M.
Shaw, Robert James
Duncan, Garnett
Bollinger, John Hbnry
Eliot, James Smith, P. M.
Sproul, Frank Preston ·
Emery, Charles
Sproul, William Charles
Fraser, Alexander Isaac
Strong, Stephen
Glazier, Clarence M.
Swigart, Jacob
Grover, John Franklin
Waterman, ()laren.ce O.
Hay, James, P. M.
West, Wyatt 0.
Hughes, Harley
Weise, Charles Arthur
Hughes, Nicolas Henry
WITHDRAWN:
Donnell, William Wendell

-73

WITHDRAWN:
Dyer, John Frank

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT

Perry, William Franklin

Deering, Richard Sanford

DIED:
Alderma:d, Edwin Buckley

DIED:
Clark, James Clark

•

,

OF DUES:

-42

Tackaberry, Benjamin Franklin
Turner, John Labon
Walton, Charles Perry
Walton, William Albert
Weldon, Abraham James

SANGER LODGE, No. 316.
Sanger, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, ~rst Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

MEMBERS:
Hamilton, Andrew
Harlem, Louis
Hayward, Orie, P. M.
Ingram, Charles Ray
Jones, Iven Henry
Klepper, Henry Clay
Kutner, Alfred
Lang, Carl Adam
Lisle, John Newton
Long, Charles William
Madden, Thomas Frederick
Manley, George Penfield, P. M.
Maxson, Charles Newton
McLaughlin, Harry Blaine
McLaughlin, Lee, P. M.
McGee, James Henry ·
Meaves, Carl Henry
Messer, Harry F.
Mitchell, Harry Chandler
Neeley, Herbert William
Nelson, James Peter
Norman, Louis Vernon
Paden, Robert J.
Patterson, John Alex.
Pressley, John Brockinton
Radley, William
Rock, George Mitchell
Rosenberger, J~hn Ashley
Smith, Alfred John
Swank, Williall! Ellwood
Taylor, Leroy, P. M.

Weston, Charles
Wheeler, Barton James
Wilson, Henry Scott
Woodside, Robert Clifton
Zink, Henry Joseph

-72

WITHDRAWN:
Rodgers, David Thompson

John B. Pressley, Master,
Harry Blaine McLaughlin, Sen. Dea.,
Edward E. Baird, Senior Warden, Wm. Elwood Swank, Junior Deacon,
John Newton Lisle, Junior Warden, George Penfield Manley, Marshal,
Jam es Peter Nelson, Treasurer,
Edwin Porter Dewey; Steward,
James Ed. Burnett, Secretary,
Robert Lee Bosserman, Steward,
John Alexander Patterson, Tyler.

Anderson, John Adolph
Andrus, William Frank
Baird, Edward Ellsworth
Ballard, Berton Joseph
Ballard, Joseph Fain
Ballard, Louis Morgan
Bosserman, Robert Lee
Brown, Percy Whitmore
Budworth, George Thomas
Burnett, James Edward
Burnett, Robert B.
Burns, Miles Francis
Bradshaw, John
Brehler, Oscar A.
Carlton, Thomas Franklin
Carlton, William David
Cavanah, John Crump
Clay, William Robert
Coblentz, George Samuel
Dennis, Nelson, P. M.
Depew, William Brenning
Dewey, Edward Porter
Dirvin, Henry
Dudley, Edward C.
Elmore, Benjamin Thomas
Evinger, Daniel R.
Faller, Peter, P. M.
Field, Ander11 Thorwaldsen
Fink, Charles Laton
Fleming, Luther Parker
Hagen, Andrew C.

457

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

456

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
West, Philander Nathan
DIED:
Price, Joe Dodd

FALLBROOK LODGE, No. 317.
Fallbrook, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
No Certificate.

l

Bell, Alonzo Mandeville
Belt, Henry Morrow
Butler, George
Chapman, Etna Gaston
Clark, Almond James, P. M.
Crane, William E.
Day, Frank Richard
Fickas, Jesse Tingle
Giddens, Levi Cornelius
Hall, Wilbert Nathan
Johnson, Percy Alex., P. M.
Magee, Victor Miguel
Martin, Joseph George

MEMBERS:
McCarty, Thomas
Meredith, Charles Theiss
Moulton, Montgomery McD., P. M.
Neff, Millard Fillmore
Reader, Edward Charles
Ross, Albert, P. M.
Russell, Allen J.
Salmons, Frank E.
Treat, Thomas Robert
Westfall, George Franklin
White, Edgar Curtin
Woodbury, Bert
-25

DIED:
Smith, Thomas A.

458

ROS~ER.

ROSTER.

4:,9

EMMANUEL LODGE, No. 318.

HOLLENBECK LODGE, No. 319.

Biggs, Butte County.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

OFFICERS: .

OFFICERS:
Benj. Nelson Powers, Sen. Deacon,
Joseph A. Smith, Master,
Winfred J. S~born, S enior Warden, Lewis August Hauser, Junior Deacon,
Frank Handy Brooks, Jun. Warden, Henry Elmer Mc~onnell, Marshal,
Robert Benjamin, Steward,
Peter Johnson, Treasurer,
Edmund Robert Gregory, Steward,
John -William Dick, Secretary,
Wm. Ammon Knighten, Chaplain, George Reed Ellis, Tyler,

William E. Walker, Master,
Paul Albers, Senior Deacon,
Frank E. Archambault, Sen. Ward., Charles Hansen, Junior Deacon,
Henry Wm. Hazelbush, Jun. Ward., Buchanan Caldwell, Marshal,
Gilman K. Smith, Treasurer,
N. Ossenbriggen Steward
William R. Riddle, Secretary,
Moses La Point' Steward
William Mark Doty, Chaplain,
Andrew M. Wo~druff, T;ler.
1

MEMBERS:
Archambault, Frank Edward
La Point, Moses, P. M.
Beal, John
Lawrence, Philip Edward
Bervillier, Jean Nicholas
Leeper, John Franklin
Boyd, James Sankie
McGill, James Helm, P. M.
Brink, Henry Seine
McKee, Matthew
Burchett, William
Nelson, Joel Moore
Caldwell, Buchanan
Nelson, William Oscar, P. M.
Camp, Albert Edward
Riddle, William R.
Cleveland, William Mayo
Rutland, James Bell
Cohn, Harry, P. M.
Shippee, Watson Allen
Craig, Tnomas Franklin
Smith, Gilman Kendall
Doty, Lymon William
Stansell, Fred Richard
Doty, William Mark
Stoudt, Aaron F .
Fox, Henry
Stout, George Homer
Hammon, Wendell Philucius, P. M. Spencer, Franklin Eugene
Hawkins, Orwin Cullen, P. M.
Walker, William Edwin, P. M.
Hazelbush, Henry William
Washburn, Arnold Oliver
Huffaker, E.
Washburn, Calvin Uriah
Ivy, Martin Filmore
Watson, Franklin Haskell, P. M.
Janes, James Richard
White, Walter Herbert
Johnson, John Alfred
White, Emmons
Kessler, . Joseph Pyle
White, William Edwin
La Point, Leroy Anson
Woodruff, Andrew Moore
--46
WITHDRAWN:
Demmer, Matthies

Isbell, George Frederick

•

MEMBERS:
Bemis, Ernest Hudson
Adams, Horace Bishop, P. M.
Benjamin, Robert
Adams, Oliver Perry
Bennedict, Charles E .
Alexander, Daniel Potter
B ethune, James Neils
Alkire, Charles Osborn
Binford, Henry Mettaur
Allin, Ernest
Blanchard, Everett Loring
Anderson, Charles Edward
Bliesner, William John
Anderson, Charles Stuart
Borden, Admiral Faragut
Augustus, Edward Hikes, P. M.
Bostwick, Edward Ev erett
Bacon, George
Botsford, Frank Leroy
Bacon, Walter Romayne
Boyer, Richard Peter
Bagley, Charles Leland
Bradley, Frank L.
Bailie, Hubert Charles
. Bresee, Melvin Arthur
Bailey, James A.
Bresee, Phineas Wright
Bancroft, George Hess
Brooks, Frank Handy
Bannister, George Lucas
Brown, Andrew McCormack
Barber, David Cassett
Browning, Daniel Rawlins, P. M.
Barchig, Charles Edward
Bulpin, Thomas W.
Barker, Edward Lawton
Burns, Robert Wallace
Barnes, Charles Adams
Butterworth.
Edward Summers
Barnes, Thomas Finley
Cady, Freeman Risley
Barth, Theodore Adam
Campbell, George W.
Batcheller, Charles Lucian, P. M.
Carr, Noble Spencer
Beaumont, Frank Carroll
Carr, Robert Jay
Becher, Max Albert
Carter, Henry Edwin
Beede, John Wallace
Carter, John Asher
Behrendt, Leon
Casey, Charles Booth
Behrendt, Sam
Chapman, John Slater
Behymer, Luden Ellsworth •
Charlton, Chas. Augustus, P. M.
Bell, James George
Charlton, Roy Currier
Bell, Otis Freeman
Christy, Adison Barton
Bell, Robson Orde

460
Clampett, Don L.
Clampett, Edward Anthony
Clark, Don Denman
Cobb, Jesse Stanley
Cochrane, Malcomb
Cohn, Abraham B.
Gohn, James B.
Cohn, Maurice
Conart, George Washington
Condley, Darrell
Cooke, Charles Prentice
Cowan, John
Cox, William Leonard
Craig, Charles Carpenter
Grail, J a~es
Daniels, Albert Leroy
Davis, Morgan Lewis
Densmore, Edwin
Derby, Charles Ferdinand
Dessery, Alfred Bonney
Dessery, Victor
Dibble, Horace B.
Dick, John William
Dillingham, Frank Stinson
Dodd, Samuel Harvey
Dodge, William
Dow, Arthur Stephen
Du Casse, Eugene Leon
Dun.s mour, John Marcus, P. M.
Dunsmour, Robert Morris
Dyas, Bernal Hubert
Eddy, Nelson Butler
Edwards, Herbert Llewellyn
Egar, Charles Lucius
. Ellis, Capen
Elliott, Milo D.
Ellis, George Reed
Elwell, James Frank
Evans, Charles W.
Fallis, Garland Prentice
Farish, Oscar Eugene
Fechyew, Benjamin Reader
Ferguson, George, P. M.
Ferris, Horace Bayles
Filz, Frank Jacob

ROSTER.
Fitzgerald Archibold Thomas
Fitzgerald, Wallace Andrew
Follmer, Raymond Irving
Ford, George Jackson Parker
Foree, Thomas F .
Forrester, Arthur Walter
French, Charles Edward
Frost, Harry Willis
Fuller, Harry Ripley
Galbreath, Ross Morgan
Garnier, Ralph Lee
Garrett, Louis Russer
Garritt, Edward Hewett
Garvin, Charles Louis
Gibbs, William Francis
Gibson, William S.
Gill, Robson Osborn
l.tilmore, Arthur Freeman
Girton, Thomas Collins
Givernaud, Charles Louis
Glas&, John Alex.
Goshorn, Archie T reburtis
Graf, Albert Frederick
Graham, William H.
Gray, John Walter
Gregory, Brinton Blake
Gregory, Edmund Robert
Grohs, John Philipp
Grubb, Stephen Leander
Hagadorn, William Morley
Haines, Frank Knickerbocker
Hall, Orin Austin
Hammel, William Augustus, P. M.
Hammond, Rollin C.
Hampton, Thomas Welch
Harrison, John
Hauser, Julius
Hauser, Lewis August
Heartt, Burton Elmer
Hendrick, James Wesley, P. M.
Henkle, Byron
Henshey; Benjamin' Botsford
Hesse, Charles
Hesselberger, Milton
Hiller, Edgar Dewey

ROSTER.

•

Hillebrand Frank Joseph
Hollenbeck, Edward Henry
Holt, James Erle
Houck. Perry Homer
Howa;d, Austin Fay
Rowell, John Graham
Huggins, Flernoy Walker
Humm, Harry Lewis
Ibers, Max Charles
Irvin, Edward Samuel
Ingersoll, Ralph William
Jacobi, Louis
Jameson, Alvah L ee
J enney, F erdolin
,Johnson, Allen H enry
Johnson, Charles Gar
Johnson, Edward Purnell
Johnson, Harry G., P. M.
Johnson, Peter
Johnson, Thomas
Jones, Arthur
Jones, Charles S.
Jones, Chas. Thomas B.
Jones, Robert Curtis
Jordon, Robert Collins
Jung, Andrew Nerwood
Keefe, Thomas Francis
Kennedy, Leneaus Ray
• Kennedy, Louis Henry
Kingsbury, William Stephens
Kirshner, Emile
Kister, Hannie Julius
Klein, Henry
Knighten, William Ammon
LaBerge, Frank Edward
Lambourn, Frederick
Larronde, John Martin
Lawton, Joseph
Layng, John Rose
Lackner, Charles Henry
Leix, Frederick, P. M.
Leland, Harry Jasen
L enz, Edmund H enry Carl
Levering, Martin Murry
Lewis, John James

Lillie, Harry Curtis
Lofthouse, Charles Pendlet on
Logan, Charles Lincoln
Loomis, Lester Grant
Mackay, Roderick
Madoery, Carl Wilhehtl. Arnold
Magee, Robert
Mahone, Charles B.
:Marshall, Andrew B.
:Marshall, Frank Thomas
:Marlatt, ·Louis Brighton
Masters, John Henry
Maynard, Rea Edward
McCartney, Herbert Swift G.
McCarty, Walter George
McCarty, William Herbert
McColl, John
McConnell, Henry Elmer
McCullough, Ray
McCullough, John Anderson
McI:i:itire, John Hoy
McLean, John
McKay, John Patton
McKeeby, George Lemuel
McNeil, James Elliott
Meserve, Edwin Alvin
Miller, Clarence Webster
Miller, Jacob A.
Miller, George Lee
Millette, Charles Joseph
Mitchell, Irving J efferson
Moore, Albert William
Morgan, Octavious
Morrison, Norman Holt
Morro, August Edward
Mottram, John H enry Harper
Murphey, Clare Warren
N esbit, Hayes William
Neun er, Sidney Martin, P. M.
Newkirk, Adamson Bertley
Newman, Toby
Noble, William Clarence Hayes
Nolton, Chester Dearborn ·
Norris, James Franklin
Norton, Isiack F.

461

•

462
Nye, Charles Isaac
Obst, Oscar Harmon
Orvis, Joseph Lander
Owen, Ira Lloyd
Pallette, Edward M.
Park, Frank Leon
Parker, Chrisman Harrison
Parker, George Hampshire
Patterson, George Frank
Peck, Earl Wellrose
Penfield, Archibald Robertson
Perham, Charles Edward
Perssan,. Thelin Alexius
Petrie, James Buchan
Pinkham, John H .
Plank, Charles David
Plath, Emil Ludwig
Pontious, Marion Francis
Post, John Cambel •
Potts, Amos Harry
Powell, Thomas Watkins
Powers, Benjamin Nelson
Powers, Edward Everett
Powers, Levi Osgood
Priddy, Courtland
Priwer, Aaron
Quackenbush, Richard Orris
Quint, Sumner Joseph
Reavis, William Everett
Rech, John Nicholas Ossacar
Reed, Parker Clarke
Rees, Samuel
Rees, Walter Bert
Rhemchild, George
Rice, John Garland
Rising, Franklin Edward
,Jiobbins, Herbert W~rren
Robertson, William Campbell
Robinson, Oliver Raymond Wade
Rodgers, James Frederick
Rogers, Read Wyman
Rogers, William
Rosenfelt, Benjamin Franklin
Roth, Lewis Frederick
Ruckman, Charles Leroy

ROSTER.
Ruddy, William
Runkle, Frederick William
Ruvane, William Henry
Sadler, Rupert John
San born, Charles Henry
Sanborn, Winfield Joseph
Schee, Walter Scott
Schmidt, Frederick Wm. Theo.
Schmidt, Oscar Emile
Schwaebe, Lewis H.
Schreiber, William G#orge
Sentous, Frank Peter
Sessions, Nathan Paine
Sexton, Charles Loyal
Sexton, Charles Wesley
Shaffer, Robert Kennedy
Shanks, Colin
Sharpe, Frederick Henry
Shearer, William Dixon
Sherwin, Edward Underwood
Shorten, Albert
.Shrader, William Wallace, Jr.
Shulthies, Henry
Shuman, John William
Sisler, Samuel
Bittle, Albert Casper
Slatter, Joseph McGue
Smith, Charles Fuller
Smith, Frederick Augilstus
Smith, James Albert
Smith, Joseph Augustus
Smith, William Albert
Smith, Zena Bruce
Sook, Henry Sylvanius
Spreng, Charles Gottfried
Spreng, Frederick Charles
Stamm, Julius George
Stearns, James Bert
Stearns, William Henry
Steddom, Francis White
Stevens, Thomas John
Stevenson, Andrew William
Stickney, William Adelbert
Stringfellow, William Boothby
Strohm, Louis Robert

ROSTER.
Sturgeon, Phineas Boyd
Summerfield, John Wyatt
Talbot, Edward Alonzo, P. M.
Taylor, Edgar C.
Taylor, Raymond G.
Teale, Frederick Joseph
Teetzel, Fred William
Thomas, Frederick Smethurst
Thomas, Winfield Corwin
Thompson, Edward H.
'.l'hompson, Frank Theo.
Thompson, Paui9
Thompson, Richard
Thompson, Thomas
Thompson, William Edward
Thornton, William Crane
Tipton, Lawson A.
·.nainor, Charles August
Trickle, Ralph Emmerson
Trimble, Henry Bassett
True, Herbert Fred
Uber, William Robert
Vance, Champs Shepherd
Vanderbeck, Lester John
Vandergrift, Charles Rhode
Varey, Harry Louis
Variel, William James
Vestal, John Everett
Vetter, Louis Fisher
Walker, Joseph Atwood
Walters, Alfred ~ugene
Walton, William Ransom

•

Vv ambold, Edward Howard
Ward, Thomae James
Ward, William Henry
Warden, Charles Prentis
Wardling, George Benjamin
Warren, Hugh Mead
Webster, James William
Weisenberger, Julius
West, Ernest L.
Wetzel, Edwin Charles
Wheeler, Ferdinand
White, Myers Taylor
Wilkey, Arthur Septimus
Willard, Cyrus
Williams, Darius H.
Williams, George W.
Wilson, James
Wilson, Silas A.
Wirshing, Robert· Ernest
Wohefarth, August
Wood, Thompson
W oodill1 Hiram Blanchard
Woodis, Warren Albert
Woods, William Wallace
Woolsey, John Grant
Workman, Boyle
Workman, William Henry
Wright, Arthur Lowe
Wylie, John Perry
Young, Charles Franklin, P. M.
Youngworth, Leo Valtus, P. M.
Zimmerman, Roy Elden
-396

WITHDRAWN:
Blair, Paul Laughridge
Knox, Harry Clifton
De Grau, Austin Van Buren
Merrick, Joseph Adrian
Jones, Herbert Clinton
Mollohan, George Risley
Vincent, Fred Ezekiel

1

4ft3

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
McDaniel, Frank Marion
DIED :
Bremer, William Alinos

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

464

SOUTH GATE LODGE, No. 320.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Kearney Lee Wilcox, Master,
Richard Louis Phister, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Winters Tritt, Senior Warden, Martin Luther Griffith, Jun. Deacon,
Chas. Alvin Sweet, Junior Warden, William Levi King, Marshal,
Willis Harsey Routzahn, Treasurer, Harper Ellsworth McBride, Steward,
Frank Harrison White, Secretary, Harry B. Horlock, Steward,
Foster Calhoun Austin, Chaplain,
Isaac D. Stine, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Chester Lowell
Alexander, George
Alford, Chauncey Higley
Allen, Albert A., P. M.
Anderson, Charles John
Armstrong, Arnold
Arnold, ~mmer Bowman
Arnold, Frank Norman
Austin, Foster Calhoun, P. M.
Bailey, Ralph Waldo
Baldwin, Cornelius Joseph
Ball, Charles Edwin
Ball, Robert Bruce
Banks, Walter Charlton
Barber, George Francis
Barber, Jay Burdette
Barlotti, James Anthony
Barrett, Frederick
Bartlett, Cornelius
Bartlett, Oswald
Battle, James Whittle
Bean, George, Jr.
Beattey, James Leo
Bell, Edgar Newton
Bellringer, Edward Aubrey
Bente!, Frederick Carl
Bettinger, Marcus Clark
Bevan,_ Eugene Alexander
Bevis, James Elijah
Beyrle, Robert
Biles, Elmer Ellsworth

Binz, Edward Gabriel
Bird, Arthur Milton
Blake, Benjamin Howard
Bluff, Charles George
Bonynge, William Alfred
Borgum, Edwin Arnold
Boyd) Walter Leigh
Bradley, Knowlton R.
Bradley, William
Brady, Joseph John
Brasher, William Summerville
Brisco, John
Brittain, John Randolph
Bronson, Marenus Alonzo
Brooks, James Marion
Brooks, William Drew
Buckingham, W1llie.m James
Buhles, Frederick Charles
Bulfinch, Stephen Amos
Bull, Robert Wilcox
Burgess, Henry Arthur
Butterworth, Albert Stanton
Caldwell, John Alex.
Cameron, Allen Wilbur
Camp bell, Emerson Bristol
Campbell, John Bartholomew
Carlson, Milton
Carpenter, John Malines
Carter, Harry Von
Cash, Charles DeAlton
Cass,, Frank Tufts

Castruccio, Benedict .
Cavanaugh, Angus Leonard
Chambers, William
Chesley, Benjamin Millard
Christin, Leo . Stallow
Clark, Lincoln
Clark, Ray Webster
Clark, Thomas Maxwell
Clemente, Charles C. A.
Coenen, .Gustav Adolph
Collier, Frank Chester
Colvin, Robert •
Conklin, Lewis Henry
Conklin, Wright
Cook, Benjamin Augustus
Coon, Willard Alden, P. M.
Copeland, Atwood Reynolds
Costerisan, George Felix
Cowan, William Keen
Cox, John Randolph
Cramer, William Henry
Cribb, James Coburn
Crippen, Ellery Hicks
Criswell, Ralph Luther
Crook, Delbert Henry
Cross, William S.
Curl, Samuel Alexander
Curry, John Michael
Davey, .William Edward
Davis, Francis Edward
Davis, Hugh Clinton
DeBerry, Angus J asher
De Haven, James Lapsley
Deman, Max
Dennis, William Riley
Devendorf, Fred Clark
Dill, Robie Everett, P. M.
Donohugh, William Lincoln
Drake, Frank Norton
Duncan, John
Dunn, Arvine Spencer
Dunn, Frederick William, P. M.
Durard, George Felix
Dusoe, Robert Moses
Dutwiler, Michael Eby
30

Eader, Lewis William
Earll, James Cornelius
Eastman, DeBarrett
Eby, John Leonard
Eccleston, Joseph William
Ellis, Edward Stephen
Ellis, Isaac Newton, P. M.
Ellis, Josephus Elijah
Ensign, Frank C.
Espe, Frederick
Evans, Frank Robert
Evans, Thomas Jerome
Falkenstein, Harry L.
Faris, William Adam
Farmer, Jasper
.
Fennessy, Thomas Downey
Fiano, Ariotide Philip
Fleming, Thomas Jefferson
Follows, John
· Ford, Benjamin Franklin
Foster, Edward Clarence
Francisco, Andrew Wiggins
Franklin, James Breckenridge
Frost, Arba Wright
Fuller, George
Gardner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Gates, Arthur Frank
Gaynor, William Henry, P. M.
George, Le b X.
Gerson, Edward
·Giambastiani, Francisco
Gibbs, Charles Alfred
Gifford, Clarence May
Gillett, Fred James
Girdlestone, Charles Henry
Glover, Percy Carson
Gooding, Henry Clay
Graham, William Newton
Gray, Alex, P. M.
Greene, Alex. McDonald
Gregg, William Seaton
Griffith, Martin Luther
Groff, Charlie Addison
Hackley, George TrowbridgeHalberg, Bernard Theodore

465 .

4fi6

Hahn, Philip, P. M.
Hale, Robert
Hale, Robert, Jr.
Hall, John Allen
Hamilton, George Reed
Hampe, George Solomon
Hamrick, Peter Willis
Hancock, Walter Perry
Harper, Charles Harvie
Harris, Samuel
Hart, Dwight Howard
Hart, George Alandson, P. M.
Hastreiter, Rolland Frederick
Hathaway, Worth Murray
Hayes, John
Hazen, Robert Lee
Heaton, Charles Page
Hefferman, William Thomas
Henderson, Frank Gilbert
Henry, William Albert
Hickman, Thomas Caldwell
Hitchcock, William Wesley
Hoffman, Winnie Eugene
Homann, Emil
Hopperstead, Eric Warren
Horlock, Ha~y Buckhurst
Horton, Rufus Landon
Hossack, Lawrence N.
Howe, George Edward
Howry, Robert Root
Hunt, Carl William
Husted, Thomas Seymour
Irwin, Robert
Jackson, Harold Frederick D'A.
Jacobus, Delbert Wayne
J e:Pson, Carl George
Johnson, Carl Reed
Johnson, Franklin
Johnson, Victor Andrew
Jones, George Wiley
Jones, John J ace b
Julius, Peter Michael
Kelsey, Frank Meeker
Kemp, John William, P. M.
Kerr, Thomas William

•

ROSTER.
Kilner, William Henry D.
King, George Irving
King, John Millen
King, William Levi
Kinnal!, Robert Peter
Kelker, Harry 0 'Connor
Kelker, Lester Collins
Kinney, Burt Ornon
Kistler, Samuel Lee
Koll, August Juergen
Kolp, William
Lamb, Stacey Caldwell
Lamb, Theo. Pusey
Lander, Benjamin Stewart
Lang, Frederick Selwyn
Lanterman, Frank Dexter
Larkin, Albert Henry
Lawrence, John Gordon
Leary, Frederick JamcB
Leck, William Frederick
Lenox, Andrew Jackson
Lewis, Eugene Arnold
Lickley, Ernest Jameson
Lidgerwood, George Irving
Linder, Claudius Wade
Lindsay, Jasper .
Little, Frederick Eugene
Lloyd, Charles
Lloyd, Edward
_Lloyd, Francis Harold
Lockwood, Edward Bruce
Longo, Ignacio
Losekamp, Gustave Willard
Love, Charles Evans
Lovelace, Archibald Manuel
Loyhed, Thomas Henry
Lubin, Benjamin
Lucas, Ebenezer Wesley
Maitre, Charles Joseph
Margrander, Frederick Oswald
Marr, Hinton Nicholas
Marsh, Charles Page
Martin, Frederick Herbert
Martindale, Walter W.
Mathis, Elbert Nelson

ROSTER.

t

Mathis, John Anthony .
Matthay, Ferdinand Louis
Mays, Terry
McAllister, Frank Allister
McAllister, James Pinkerton, P. M.
:McAlpine, David Johnson
McBride, Harper Ellsworth
McClure, Alfred
McCollum, Alvin Sanborn
McCollum, Frank Elwin
McConnell, Lee Alene
McCreery, Samuel Robert
:McCulley, William Bissell
:McDonald, Frank
McDonald, Norman
McGilliard, Gideon Delosa, P. M.
McGinty, William Gipson
McKay, William
McKeon, C. Roy
McKeon, Harry
:McKinley, James Welford
McNeeley, Thomas Berry
Meek, William
Meiklejohn, Matthew Caldwell
Messerly, Everett Alpheus
:Meudell, Asa Yoemana
Milburn, Thomas Smedley
Miller, George Francis
Miller, Henry
Miller, Robert Warren
Minton, John Erwin
Mitchell, Alex. Muir
Moore, Charles Elijah
Moorhead, George Bonynge
Morganstern, Alfred J.
Morin, Samuel Williamson
Morlan, Joseph Alvie
Morse, Henry Clay
Morton, Clyde Walter
Moss, Leon Fremont
Muller, Frederick Frank
Murch, Edward Weston
Murphy, Jerome
Musselman, John William, P. M.
Myers, Cecil Bauer

467

Nadeau, Hubert
Nelgner, Richard Albert
Newell, John J.
Nicola.us, William
Noble, Ivory Bean
Nye, Arthur :Maurice
Odell, Abram H enry
Odemar, Fritz
O 'Kelly, Thomas Jefferson
Ourfalian, Paul Larkis
Palmer, Amos Lorenzo
Parke, Elbert Taylor, P. M.
Parke, Oliver Hazard P., P. M
Parker, Francis Marion
Parker, Robert
Parsons, Alfred Harry
Pauly, Julius
Pawley, James
Pawley, Joshua Medlin
Payne, Rottham Kenner
Perrelli, Roxey
Peters, Charles Rufus, Jr.
Peterson, Frederick Erskine
Pepe, Fernando
Perry, Arthur St. Clair
Pessell, George Douglas
Pfaff, William Henry
Philp, Harry Grafton Rowe
Phister, Richard Louis
Pike, Charles
Pitblado, James Bruce
Porter, William Sterling
Potter, Bernard
Preston, Jasper Newton
Pritchard, Stephen Lacy, P. M.
Prosser, Albert John
Quiggins, James Allen
Quitzow, Charles
Rank, Isaac Elliott
Rankin, William John, P. M.
Rannells, John William
Rebman, John
Reed, Charles Jo.s eph
Reel, Peter Alex.
Ricciardi, Nicholas A.

468

Rice, James Edward
Riggle, Elmer Willis
Roberts, Guy Malcom
Robinson, Clarence Curtenius
RobinRon, Frank
Roeder, Frederick
Roeder, Karl, Jr.
Rohde, Charles Julius
Rose, Louis Carl
Rossiter, Holland Benson
Roth, August
Routzahn, Willis HarRey
Ryse, Richard
Salyer, Alfred Mnrk
Salyer, Charles Alfred
Salyer, Frank Hamilton
Sanders, George Leon
Saunders, William Seymour
Savage, William Edward
Schmalzried, Edward
Schmitz, John
Schrader, Gustave
Schwartz, Adolph
Scott, Arthur Morseman
Sentous, Camille
Shafer, Charles Franklin
Shaw, William Herbert
Sheets, Sylvester Newton
Shott, Willia.m Philip
Siefert, John W.
Singleton, James William, P. M.
Smith, George William
Smith, Herbert Lee
Smith, Isaac Horatio
Smith, Robert Jefferson
Smith, Robert Pendleton
Sinith; Samuel Barnes
Sprague, James Wesley
Sprague, William Brown
Stansbury, Charles Vivian
Staples, Charles Robert
Steckel, George
Stewart, John Taylor
Stine, Isaac D.
Stocking, Clyde Henry

Stone, William Harry
Strayer, Arthur James
Summers, Alexis Charles
Summers, Samuel Lee
Swank, Wiley
Sweet, Charles Alvin
Sydow, Ernest Robert
Taylor, Charles Russell
Thirkell, William Russell
Thompson, Charles Santford
Thompson, Joseph Franklin
Thompson, Rip Victor
Thomson, Archibald ..t'ercival
Throop, George Warren
Tipton, Charles Melville
Todd, lnysses Samuel G., P. M.
Tritt, William Winters
Tubman, William
Tucker, James Peter
Tulloch, Thomas Mcintosh
Udell, Charles Arthur
Unwin, Edward George Oxford
Valentine, Louis Hulett
Valiant, Frank Doble
Valiant, Harry Alfred
Van Alstyne, George Warren
Van Cleve, Rae Gird
Van Norman, Harvey Arthur
Van Norman, James Linn
Wagner, Daniel Arthur
Waller, Perry Jay
Walsh, Frank Edward
Walters, William Thomas
Ware, John Francis
Watson, John William
Webb, Charles Marion
Weber, John
Weichmann, _Henry Philip
Weiser, Abraham Grant
Welch, Charles Emory
Welch, William Ormond
Wellborn, Charles
Wells, Charles Jedidiah
Werdin, Ernest Rudolph
White, Frank Harrison

469

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

White, Robert
Whitfield, Robert
Whitney, Grant Ulysses
Wickersham, Daniel Ross
Wickstrom, Eric Gustave
Wilcox, Kearney Lee
Wilcut, John Alfred
Wilkinson, Thomas Bertrand
Williams, Charles Allen, P. M.

Ehlers, Peter William
Fo:x:, Edward William
:McFee, William Hamilton

Brooks, Frank Cerry
Codrick, Thomas Ulysses
Cooper, William Adelbert
Coumbe, Alfred John

Wilson, Andrew Porter
Wilson, Frank Stewart
Wolf, Frank Charles, P. M.
Wood, Emerson Lee
Wood, George Henry
Workman, Robert Ferguson
Young, Walton
Young, William, P. M.
--440
Ziegler, John Louis

WITHDRAWN:
:Miller, Thomas K.
Parker, Charles Frederick
· Winnett, Percy Glen
DIED:
Ducasse, Peter Leon
Harris, Leonidas R.
*Parsons, Alexander
Smith, David Holmes

ALISAL LODGE, No.

321.

Pleasanton, Alameda County.
Stated :Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full :Moon.

OFFICERS:

Samuel Jenkins Wells, Master,
Louis Christian Walter, Sen. Deacon,
· W ard., Walter Day, Junior Deacon,
Clarence E ar1 M ayo, S enior
Thomas H. Silver, Junior Warden, Hugh Arnold Sinclair, Marshal,
Edward Lewis Benedict, Treasurer, Logan A. Colestock, Steward,
John Tad Haley, Secretary,
John Robert Hel~s, Steward,
Hans Christian Therkelsen, T·yler.
MEMBERS:
Corbett, Henry Havelock
Albrecht, Herman William
Crellin, Charles Louis
Apperson, Elbert Clark
Crellin, Ernest Willard
Benedict, Edward Lewis
Dall, Christian Hansen
Bonde, Hans Peter
~His, Robert
Bryan, Daniel
~·ensier, Henry Edward C.
Chadbourne, Henry Pierce, P. M.
lHll, James S.
Colestock, Logan Alfred
Haley,
John Tad
Cope, William Henry, P. M.
• Affiliat.ed during the yenr.

470 '

ROSTER.

Hall, Ernest Edwin, P. M.
Hall, Fred James
Harris, Thomas William, P . M.
Harris, William
Hedemark, John Christian
Hitchcock, Jess
Johnston, George
July, Riley
Mayo, Clarence Earl
Mohr, Henry Paul, P. M.
Nagel, Frederick Henry
Peterson, Antone I ver~en

ROSTER.

Richards, George Henry
Saunders, Joseph w..
Schween, Walter James
Schween, William Frederick
Silver, Thomas Homo
Sinclair, Hugh Arnold
Therkelsen, Hans Christian
Thorup, Peder Christian
Walter, Louis Christian, P. M.
Weilbye, Julius Lars
Wells, Samuel Jenkins

-39

DIED:
Schween, John Herman

ALHAMBRA LODGE, No.

322.

Alhambra, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Hen'?' Jo.hn Olsen, Master,
Edward Lingenfelder, Senior Deacon,
Melvin Ulysses Butterbaugh, Sr. W., Sloan Pitzer, Junior Deacon,
Kenneth F. Postle, Junior Warden, N ea! Sorenson, ·Marshal,
Hans Olson, Treasurer,
OJof G. Myren, Steward
Albert Adams Clapp, Secretary,
Frank Ames Utter, SteU:ard,
Henry E. Lawrence, Chaplain,
'I'heodore Knight, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Algie, Matthew
Allen, Charles W e~ley
Bailey, Charles Alden
Bailey, Elmer Ellsworth
Behlow, Irwin Wesley Merritt
Behlow, Robert Roscoe
Biddle, George Arthur
Bobz, Emil
Bo,rden, Gail
Brady, Charles Evey
Bronaugh, Charles Augustus
Bronaugh, Daniel Dodge
Bryant, Joseph Allen
Bullis, Sherman Allen, P. M.

Butterbaugh, Melvin Ulysses
Cartwright, Benj. Brooks, P. M . .
Caulk, Harry Parsons
Charles, Merrill Stull
Clapp, Albert Adams
Clapp, Ralph Bissell{ P. M .
Clapp, Randall Commg
Clover, Samuel Travers
Clark, Paul Hipolit
Cohen, Benjamin
Corey, Francis Edwin
Creamer, James Montgomery, P. M.
Crow, Samuel Dickinson
Crowe, William Launcelot

..

Cumming, John Albert
Drake, Samuel Ambrose
English, Manon Columbus
Ferguson, Edward Paul
Fortney, George Washington
Gray, Francis Edward
Hall, Jimmie Na pier
Hanly, George Thomas
Hanscome, Henry Irving, P. M.
Hawkins, Arthur George
Holt, Thomas Elijah E.
Hoover, David Elwooll
Johnston, Rufus
Lattin, Kelley Walter
Lawrence, Henry Eugene, P. M.
Lee, Stewart
Liddell, Va~ Ranssalier
Lingenfelder, Eqward
Lloyd, William Frazier
Lord, Thomas Newton
Lundy, Walter James
March, Daniel Webster
McDonald, Henry Dalton
McDonough, James
Messenger, Bernard Ellis
Messenger, John
Meeker, William Metzger
Middleton, William Philip
Miles, Harry Storrs
Miller, Jacob
Morgan, Guy Stephen
Mulock, Daniel Connolly
Munsell, William Alex. Oliver
·Musselman, Charles Wilfred
Myers, John Albert
Myren, Olof G.

471

Northrup, William Moulton, P. M.
Olson, Hans
Olson, Henry John
Pitzer, Sloan
Porter, John Clinton
Postle, Kenneth Fountain
Powell, Lewis Smallwood
Powers, Andrew Joseph
Reighard, Earl Marion
Reynolds, Duncan L.
Rich, James Jasper, P. M.
Robinson, Thomas Wilfred
Roedder, Alfred
Rossi, Albert
Sorenson, Neal, P . M .
Stanton, Edmund WooJ
Stevens, William Oliver
Stickler, Commodore C.
Stone, Fred George
Strifler, Chester Eldrige
Stuart, Edward Brookbank, P. M.
Stuart, Thomas Jefferson
Sutton, Earl Vernon
Thompson, N ewton Warren, P. M.
Van Hagen, Fred
Wallace, Robert M.
Walters, Simon
Ware, Henry Peace
Wheat, Charles Albert
·Wickerd, Homer Merritt
Wilks, Frank
Willard, Frank Stansbury
Witherbee, Orville O., P. M.
W oolpert, Royal Myren
Wuest, Samuel Franklin
Yelland, George L.
- 100

WITHDRAWN:
Johnson, Milbank

472

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

WHITTIER LODGE, No. 323.
Whittier, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Jerome Frank Powers, Master,
Paul J. Denninger, Senior Deacon,
Thomas Madge Frampton, Sr. War., Irving Lewis Blinn Junior Deacon
Donald Leroy Crane, Jun. Warden, John Wood, Marshal,
'
John Henry Gwin, Treasurer,
Frank D. Miller Steward
Edwin Hiscutt Payne, Secretary,
John A. Rutherford Ste~ard
Christmas S. Evans, Chaplain,
Lewis Johnson, Tyl:r.
'
MEMBERS:
Adams, William George
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Sr.
Allen, Milo, P. M.
Edeburn, Edward B.
Arfwedson, Carl Edward
Ellis, Nathan D., P. M . .
Barnes, Wilbert Edwin
Evans, Christmas Stephen
Bauer, Lewis Jacob
Evans, John W.
Bell, Samuel Henry
Essley, Edgar L.
Binford, David Samuel
Fairchild, John Jasper
Blinn, Irving Lewis
Farnsworth, John C.
Borden, Lindon A.
Flanders, George Hiram
Buck, John Henry
Flanders, Ray Johnston
Buffington, Charles Clifton
Fletcher, Frank Augustus
Butman, John S.
Foster, Fred Monroe
Butler, Stephen
Frampton, Thomas Madge
Butterfield, Edward Clarence, P. M. French, Eugene Kinkade
Burke, Edwin Alonzo
Fletcher, Marcus Elwood
Coverley, John Harvey
'Garrison, James Themas
Cox, George Washington
Gwin, Ancil
Campbell, Frank Chester
Gwin, John Henry
Carmack, Harvie Grant
Gray, Fred Willis
Clabaugh, Adam Grant
Gregg, Augustus Hugh
Cole, John Eckles
Guthrie, Finis William
Cornett, James Henry
Hazzard, Frederick A.
Crane, Donald Leroy
Hazzard, George Lee
Dahlitz, Paul
Hfatt, John C.
Davidson, Lewis Halberton
Hiatt~ William Macy, P. M.
Davis, James William
Hill, George Goldsmith
Denninger, Paul John
Holbrook, Morrill
Denny, Louis Hoyt
Hole, Willett J.
Denny, William
Holt, Shirley L.
Dressor, William L.
Holton, Charles Rufus
Dunlap, Albert Houston, Jr.
Homey, Gilbert Harvey

•

Humphrey, Henry E.
Hurst, Albert E.
Hurst, Charles J.
Isbell, James Fletcher
Jacobs, Alfred
Johnson, Lewis
Kelly, James Campbell
Kelso, Charles Edmunil
Kendrick, Henry W.
Kinsler, Charles Clement
Lambert, Charles Leslie
Lambert, Edward Frank
Lawhead, George C.
Little, William Henry
Locke, James S.
McDonald, Hugh
McMillen, David Madison
Miller, Frank De
Moorhead, Talbert Buchanan
Monroe, George Walter
Montgomery, Lonnie Clarence
Myers, Lemuel Allen
Nickson, John
Owens, Frank Centennial, P. M.
Payne, Edwin Hiscutt
Powers, Jerome Frank
Rainbolt, Winfield Scott, P. M.
Reed, Arthur Lucius
Reed, Cass Arthur
Rees, Cassius 4,lfred
Reichling, William George, P. M.
Reider, Eddy Willis
Rendleman, Andrew Jackson

"Carpenter, Lucius Jerome

Riho, John Perry
Risum, Chris
Russell, William Henry
Rutherford, John Ashley
Sargent, Frederick Oscar
Sargent, George Herbert
Schenck, Daniel Brininger
Seaver, Fred Solon
See, Marshall Marion
Seeley, James Brown
Shaffer, Howard McKinley
Smith, Warren, P. M.
Smith, William Alfonzo
Souden, Oscar May
Stafford, Paul Leslie
Steinart, Bernard William
Stewart, James Hope, P. M.
Stone, Frederick George
Swain, Arthur William
Trueblood, William Erwin
Tyler, Guy
Vernon, Walter A.
Way, Robert B., P. M.
West, Arthur Jerome
West, Charles Elihu
Wiles, Joseph Mansfield
Wolfe, Thomas
Wood, John
Woodruff, George Hobart
Woodward, Ray Ralph
Wright, John E.
Wyatt, Robert E.

WITHDRAWN:
Price, William

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT" OF DUES:
Cooper, Everett
Whi1son, John Wesley

..

•Degrees conferred during the year.

4i3

-127

474

ROSTER.

CORONA LODGE, No. 324.
Pasadena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Norval Gibson Felker, Master,
Hugh E. Montgomery Sen D
p
· 1J
p ·
S
·
'
. eacon,
. e_rc.1va ames nau 1x, en. War., Peter Orban, Junior Dea~on,
Wilham H. Holland, Ju_nior Ward., Clayton F. Huddleston Marshal
Farnum Lorainne Slate, Treasurer, Henry Hawes Meday, 'steward,'
Wallace Kendall Gaylord, Secretary, Grant Gillmor, Steward,
Mayhew W. Davis, Chaplain,
George Rasmas Weaver, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Aberle, John
Brown, Ira W.
Allen, Andrew Smith ·
Brownson, Howard Eugene
Allen, Robert Stuart
Burnham, Frederick Russell
Allin, John
Byrne, James Edward
Anderson, Homer John
Cambell, James Hanford
Andrews, Dorsey Giles
Carder, George Herbert
Andrews, Harry Eugene
Carrothers, Walter Roland
Armstrong, Robert
Carter, William Mathews
Bacon, Frederick Albert
Cartzdafner, Frank LeRoy
Ball, Benjamin Franklin
Cary, George Peter
Batchelder, Benj. Franklin, P. M.
Case, Gideon Seward, P. M.
Batchelder, Ernest Allen
Chamberlain, Arthur Henry
Baxter, John Fleeger
Chamberline, Clarence Edwin
Baxter, Samuel Castner
· Chapman, Dorr Gilbert
Beach, Fitz E.
Chatfield, Harry Ives
Beatty, Harry Wilson
Clifton, Harry Trumbull
Bell, Charles Webster
Conrad, David Andrew
Bell, Nelson William
Cook, William Vanalstine
Biles, Fred Eugene
Coolidge, Douglas William
Blankenhom, Louis
Crandall, Charles Joseph
Blatz, Herman
Crowell, William Chamberlain
IDeecker, John James
Crumb, Edgar Dwight
Blick, John Charles
Davies, William Tremper
Blick, Joseph James
Davis, Jesse Miller
Boner, Frank Sherman
Davis,'Joseph Edward
Bowen, Stephen Oliver
Davis, Mayhew Whitesall
Braddock, Oscar Louis
Deacon, George
Bridge, Norman
Dickinson, Gardiner Williams
Brigham, George Franklin
Dockery, John Otto
Brown, Charles Lee
Dodworth, Allen Roy
Brown, George Elmer
Doty, Henry Aaron

~OSTER.

Dunham, Samuel Gaston
Dyer, Heman
Eason, Robert, P. M.
Ewing, James Andrew
Felker, Norval Gibson, P. M.
Fessenden, Alfred Newton
Fish, Clinton Thomas
Foltz, Hudson
Frary, Leander Warren, P. M.
Fray,.r, Dent Beckwith
Frost, Charles Henry
Furness, Joseph Clarence
Gaylord, Albert Patterson
Gaylord, Robert Horace
Gaylord, Wallace Kendall, P. M.
Gentry, Henry Fletcher
Geoheg:i.n, Harry
Gibbs, George Albion
Gillmor, David Todd
Gillmor, Grant
Glasscock, Joseph Sherman
Gleason, Cassius M.
Goodrich, John Albert
Gordon, Theodore Granger
Grace, Frederick Albert
Graham, Samuel Findley
Gray, Edward Everett
Green, Manly P.
Greene, Henry Mather
Griffith, Eugene Cook, P. M.
Groenendyke, Edward, P. M.
Halsted, Samuel Hazard
Hamilton, Arthur Lincoln
Hansen, Lorenz Peter
Hansen, Waldemar Grant
Harris, F~ed Reid
Harvey-Elder, Churchill
Hawkins, Arthur Lou
Henderson, Leroy Munson
Herlihy, David Walter
Hertel, Herman Rudolph
Hibbard, William Edwar<l
Hobbs, Sidney Freeman
Hoge, Smith B.
Holland, William H.
Holmes, James· Huston

Holt, Herbert Charles
Horton, George Clifford
Howe, Edward Tucker
Huddlestl'.ID, Clayton F.
Huff, Melvin :Byron
Hutchins, Alfred
Jackson, Charles William
Jacobs, Julius Richard
Jewett, Stanley Punc_hardon
Johnson, Thomas
Jones, Paul Vernon
Kelty, Elisha F . B.
Keyes, Charles Henry
Khazoyan, Haigag Hagop
Kiehl, Roy C.
Kiesling, Henry
Klamroth, Henry Herbert
Knight, William Franklin
Leithead, William Wilson
Lindsay, Harry Wyatt
Lisk, Byron
Lockwood, Charles Daniel
Luken, John Arendt
MacCormack, William
MacLaughlin, Leo Garnett
Macomber, Abraham Kingsley
Makepeace, Thomas Ransome
Malaby, Zachary Taylor
Markham, Henry Harrison
Marquardt, J eese Claude
Marshall, William Sunderland
Martin, John Franklin
Mattison, Fitch Champlin E .
May, Ernest Heath, P. M.
McCament, John Oliver
McDonald, Robert Walker
McLarn, Robert Harper
McNally, Patrick James
McNaughton, James
McPherson, William Penton
Meday, Henry Hawes
Merriam, John Howard
Merritt, Cecil Adelbert
Metcalf, Hiram Franklin
Minassian, John Horhannes
Montgomery,. Hugh Eglinton

475

476
Montgomery, James Eglinton
Mordoff, James Malcolm, P. M.
Morris, Homer
Mueth, Adolph Albert
Munson, Byron
Munson, Spencer M., P. M.
Neff, Edwin Dorland
Nelmes, Thomas Hussey
Nettleton, Ashbel Griswold
Newby, Henry
Off, Edward T.
Orban, Peter
Palmer, Arthur Hopkins, P. M.
Parnay, Serope Yedicar'n
Paterson, Schuyler C.
Patten, Henry Sheridan
Pearman, John Henry
Perkins, Henry Alfred
Permar, David Wilson
Pierce, William Jacob
Pike, Albert Pillsbury
Polley, Frank John
Porter, Lafayette Seward
Powers, Fremont
Priaulx, Percival James
Proudfoot, Frederick M.
Proudfoot, John
Pyle, Edward Jehu
Raftery, Leon Francis
Randall, Merton Orlando
Rawles, Joseph Arthur
Reynolds, Charles Calvin
Rhodes, Charles Hilliard
Roberts, George Burhans
Roberts, William Humes, P. M.
Rossiter, John Gormley
Sargent, Chester Davis
Schroeder, Diedrich
Schwacofer, Edward Blake
Sheldon, Lionel Allen
Slierman, Henry Bushnell
Sherry, Henry
Sherwin, Billy Ebin
Shibley, William
Short, Albert N.
Simpson John Hifford

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Skillen, Charles Moses
Ralph George
Slate, Farnum Lorainne
Slavin, Matthew
Smith, Charles Warren
Smith, Edward Clarence
Smith, Elbert WhitneySmith, John Martin
Smith, William Charles
Smith, William Henry
Smith, Willis Hubbard
Snowball, MacDougall
Staats, William Richardson
Stafford, John D.
Stanton1 Edwin Moore
Stanton,. William
Stearns, Charles Henry
Stuart, Holloway Ithamer
Sturdevant, Charles Victor
Sullivan, Daniel Cornelius
Sutton, Charles '1'homas, P. M.
Taylor, Ahira Samuel
Test, Lemuel Langstaff, P. M.
Thomas, Frank Newton
Torrance, Lewis Curtis
Torrey, Frank Sedgwick
Turner, Lewis Horace
Twombly, Fred Eugene
Upton, Samuel ·warren
YanNuys, William Nelson
Viney, Alvin Wallace
Wallace, Silas Ives
Ward, Victor Leigh
Warren, Kenyon
Washington, Richard Henry
Webster, Joseph Carl
Weed, Oscar F., P. M.
Willett, Charles Joseph, P. M.
Winters, Roy Leighton
Wolkyns, Webster
Wood, J. Perry
Wood, John Windell
Wood, Melvin Edgar
Wooster, Charles, P. M.
Wotkyns, Walter Livingston, P. M.
Young, William Peter
-246

~Skillen,

Coffin, George Holman
Seay, Chester

477

WITHDRAWN:
Stowell, Eugene Alexander
Warner, William Harv.e y
Wyatt, Joseph Davy

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Beck, John Martin

Bailey, Edward Clifford
Bates, Henry Wolcott

DIED:
Crossman, James Dunn
Dillon, James Ricardo
Lund, Charles

CONSUELO LODGE, No. 325.
Escondido, San Diego County.
Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

·wm. Waters Carpenter, Jr., Master, Edgar E. Turrentine, S enior Deacon,
Jacob L. Van Derveec, Sen. Warden, Alonzo R. Moon, Junior Deacon,
Samuel C. Dickson, Junior Warden, .... . .. .. .. . . . . ..... . Marshal,
John C. Dickson, Treasurer,
E. M. T.arvin, Steward,
John N. Turre~tine, Secretary,
P . J . 'vV1sdom, Steward,
George R. Jenkins, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Estes, Payton Wade
Bailey, Charles Wesley
Garrett, Benjamin G.
Bailey, Clinton J .
Hansen, N. F.
Bailey, Theodore O.
Hartshorn, Charles Darwin, P. M.
Baldridge, William Henry
Hayes, Hiram C.
Boyle, James
Hinman, Byron
Butler, William Nelson
Holmburg, Charles K.
Carpenter, Wm. W. Jr., .P. M.
Jenkins, George R.
Churchill, Edward Marion, P. M.
Judson, John N.
Churchill, Charles B.
Kelley, John L.
Cleave, Charles
Kies, Byron W.
Connor, Mayrant
Larzalere,
J. V.
Covell, William A.
Lehner, George
Crise, Harry Null
Marshall, Henry
Dickson, John .Charles
Marshall, Hugh J.
Dickson, Samuel Clark
McNeil, Louis W.
Dunn, Alvin Delos, P. M.
Merriam, Gustavus F.
Durfee, U. G.

478

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Moon, Alonzo R.
Mudd, W. S.
Nordahl, Andrew W.
Nordahl, Oscar Carl
Phillips, Andrew
Plowman, A. R.
Quinlin, Edward
Ramey, William Luther, P. M.
Reed, Sewal A;
Steiner, Sigmund
Stevenson, Donald R.
Stevenson, Frank H.

Stevenson, .James R.
Stevenson, Lloyd A.
TarVin, E. M.
Teed, Hamilton J.
Turrentine, John Neil, P. M.
Vanasen, William H.
Van Derveer, Jacob A.
Welty, Henry
Wisdom, P. J.
Witt, Charles G.
Wohlford, Alvin W.
Worth, Jehoida J.
-58

WITHDRAWN:
Baldridge, Charles W.
Bumgarner, George Marion

*Seeley, C. D.
Stanley, William H.

•

Kelly, Fred M., P. M.
McElmell, James A.
Mealy, Solomon Richard
Miller, Charles William, Jr.
Miller, William Lewis
Mills, William Henry
Monaghan, Charles Burns
Monaghan, Francis, P. M.
Murphy, Daniel
Newhall, Henry Martin
Null, Edward Jacob
0 'Donnell, Martin William
Patton, Wallace J.
Pella t, Robert Wesley
Phillips, Roscoe Erwin
Pine, Bertram Reuben
Platner, William Albert
Reinen, Otto Frank

479

Rhodes, Charles Edgar
Rickenbacher, Hartman Walter
Root, Leroy Vincent, P. M . •
Sanderlin, Elmer Lauson
Saunders, George W.
Schiller, Frank Christ
Shale, Samuel Clarence
Smith, William Alpheus
•Stearns, Albert Henry, P. M.
Sydnor, Alfred Wyatt
Taylor, Carl I.
Topp, William Wallace
Vick, William Robert
White, Howard Bennett
Wild, Arthur Grant
Williams, James
Wooll, Arthur John
Yrnger, Sherman Abner
--66

NEEDLES LODGE, No. 326.
Needles, San Bernardino County.

LONG BEACH LODGE, No. 327;

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

Long Beach, Los Angeles County.

OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

No Certificate.
MEMBERS:
Ahrens, . Henry
Anderson, Harr.y Temple
Armantage, John
Baker, Elmer N.
Baldwin, Harry Coffee
Bedell, Stephen Allen
Berding, Gerhard Herman
Bispham, William
Bowen, Hector Morgan
Briggs, George Smith .
Butler, George Eugene, P. M.
Cheney, Raym~nd Stewart
Christie, John Alexander
Clark, Ray R.
Cooley, Malichai Harry
•Affiliated during the Year.

Crayne, Daniel Edward
Crew, Abner Lafayette
Crowthers, John ·Richard
Cubbage, Wilford
Cumback, Edward Lynn
Fluhr, Charles George
Freeman, H.erman
Freeman, William Francis
Fish, Eli Willis
Godshall, Lincoln D.
Gilbert, Isaac Sylvester
Greer, Harry Munns
Guthrie, Robert Edward
Havill, Frederick H.
Huber, Herman Louis

John Thomas Cullen, Master,
James Duncan Graham, Senior Dea.,
Clark Hervey Shaw, Senior Warden, Albert Nelson, Junior Deacon,
Leonidas F. Johnson, Junior Warden, Wm. Wallace Lowe, Marshal,
Frank McCutchen, Treasurer,
John Jacob Stubenbord, Steward,
Wm. Clarence Fager, Secretary,
Charles Alfred Allen, Steward,
Charles Pease, Chaplain,
Mark Trafton Berry, Tyler.
Abbott, Arthur Marion
Adams, Loyd Garfield
Allen, Charles Alfred
Allison, Robert
Almind, Anders E.
Austin, Albert Bennett
Austin, William Horace
Bailey, Henry Clay
Bailey, Louis Albert
Baker, James Barden
Baldridge, William Rankin

MEMBERS:
Baldwin, Walter George
Barndollar, Harry, P. M.
Barton, William Thomas
Bassett, Henry Willard
Beard, George
Becanon, Herchel Fra:q,cis
Benson, Claud Miller.
Benson, George Samuel
Benson, John Paul
Bentley, William Raymond
Berkie, William

480
Bisby, Robert Lee
Boone, Harvey Elsworth
Bowets, James Erwin
Bowers, Wesley Clay
Brandenburg, Frank
Brayton, William Lorentus
Brewer, Alvin Lee
Brown, Edwin Severance
Brown, Harry Gardner
Brown, Rufus Donaldson
Browning, Nathaniel Cannon
Butts, Duane R.
·
Callahan, Henry Seymour
Campbell, Marcus Herbert
Campbell, William Leslie
Carpenter, Louis K.
Carse, Elmer George
Clayton, Albert Benjamin
Clem, David
Clewett, Chester C.
Cobourn, William Henry
Connett, Albert Bradwell
Connett, Harvey Mahlon
Cooper, Dale Goodwin
Counts, John Ellis
Covert, Joseph Newton
Cownover, Alpheus Alonzo
Creeth, Ernest Ray
Crowe, Frank Austin
Culllm, John Thomas
Davenport, Alfred LaRue
De Meulle,. Joseph
Dewey, Edwin Preston, P. M.
Donnell, Theophilus Crosby
Dougan, Andrew
Pouglas, Bruce Edwin
Douglas, Cyrus Edwin
Drake, William Lord
Driscoll, John Joseph
Driskill, Jesse.
Dudderar, Clarence Boyd
Dudderar, Geo~ge Washington
Ewin, Andrew James
Ewing, Louis Franklin
Eno, Rufus A.

ROSTER.
Fager, William Clarance
Fellows, Ernest Frank
Fetterman, Isaac Leonard
Finlayson, John
Flint, George Clifford, P. M.
Foster, William Addison
Galer, William
Gilbert, Christopher Columbus
·Gollum, Frederick Walker
Goodhue, Arthur Martin
Green, James Henry
Green, William Horace
Greenwell, George
Greive, Anselm de Grellier
Grube, Aaron Christian
Gutzler, Alfred John
Hammer, Samuel Crawford
Hargis, Charles Jones, P. M.
Harley, Robert J?ollok
Harris, Adam Singleton
Harrison, Henry
Harthorn, Dell Henry
Harvey, Edwin Ruthvin
Heartwell, James Benjamin
Henry, Joseph Baxter
Hess, Logan
Hill, Jesse Andrew Paton
Hincks, Harvey Wellman
.Hirsch, George Fred
Holden, Joseph Matthias
Holloday, Alvin Cosmo
Horn, Harvey
Horne, Walter James
Horsch, Elias Henry
Hough, John J.
Huff, William F.
Jackson, Edward Hendryx
Jillson, Norman Stanley
Johnson, Leonidas Frederick
Jones, George Gray
Jones, Edward Palmer
Jones, William Harriman
Julian, William Bailey .
Kenyon, Brewster Cox
Knight, Frederick Alonzo

ROSTER.
Kennedy, William Anderson
Kenniston, Arthur Hiram
Kimball, Rollins Freeman
Kinzer, Samuel
Kring, Ulysses Grant
Learning, George Ambrose
Long, Stephen Gano
Losee, Judson B.
:(..owe, William :.Wa.llace,, P. M.
Loynes, Richard, P. M.
Lyster, William Grafton
Macdonald, Harry Beverly
Martin, George
Martin, Wiliiam Simon
Marshall, Harry Bateham
Masters, Robert Emmet
May, Joseph Jacob
Mayers, Lewis Deara
Mayhugh, Spencer Arthur
Mccaslin, Isaac Lafarett
Mccaslin, James Alexander
Mccutchan, Henry Chester
Mccutchan, Hugh Henry
McCutchen, Frank
Mears, Charles Franklin
Miller, James Aden
Mitchell, Charles Edward, P. M.
Moore, Eugene B.
Moore, Harrjr Dawson
Morris, -!ohn Miles
Munholland, John Guthry
Munholland, John 'Henry
Murphy, Charles Thornton
Musselman, Edwin
Mussen, John Edward
Myers, George Ridley
Neece, George Washington
Neel, Melvin
Nelson, Albert
Nelson, Swanti Louis
Nixon, Herbert Emerson
Norton, Elbert Eisworth
Oakford, Richard Scholes
Pascoe, William Frederick
Paul, Bert Hamilton
31

Patterson, Charles P.
Pearce, Robert Whaley
Pease, Charles
Perce, Louis Ansen
Pierson, George H.
Pingree, Franklin Pierce
Plantico, Emil Louis
Porteous, Arthur Leopold
Porterfield, Walter Lowrie
Potter, Pleasant G.
Raine, James Bradley
Roberts, John
Robinson, Chester Ellswood
Rockwell, Guy Lionel
Ross, Ulysses S. Grant
Saunders, Franklin
Scales, Joseph Henry
Shackleton, James
Schleismayer, Conrad William
Schulze, Theodore Gustave
Scott, Henry Adison
Shaw, Clark Hervey
Shaw, Frank Edwin
Shaw, Hervey Eleazer
Shaw, William Ray
Shuftlebotham, John G.
Shull, David Paul
Smith, Edwin W.
Smith, Harley Earl
Smith, Louis Hazelwood
Smith, Walter Clifford, P. M.
Snow, Albert B.
Springer, James Bowie
Stafford, Wm. Perry Lucien
Stannard, S. Grant
Stephens, Timothy Alva
Stevens, William Samael
Stigner, David B.
Stovall, Thomas
Stratton, Domont Seely
Strickland, Stedman Leeds
Stuart, Harry Carlos
Stubenbord, Jacob John
Stults, William Leon
Taber, Charles Grant

481

ROSTER.

482

ROSTER.

Weinberg, Isaac
Taylor, Charles John Edward
W elborne, Oclasco Carlos
Taylor, Humphrey
Welch, William
Thayer, Delos P.
Westgate, Charles Adams, P. M.
Thornburg, Charles Hix
Wheeler, Frank
·
Tucker, William A.
White, Walter C.
Twombly, James C.
Whitiker, Forest Marion
Twombly, James Richard
Williams, Alonzo Rawley
Vanderburg, Robert Benton
Wil8on, Harry Milton
Varney, William Madison
Wilson, George Hay
Wade, Charles Howell
Wilson, William Harrison
Waite, Earl Sherman
Wood, James Watson
Waldron, Thomas Henry
Wright, Robert Allen
Walker, Allen Cyrille
Zahler, Frederick William
Wallace, John Meredith
Ziegler, Harry B.
Watson, Matt Paul
-233
Weesman, William Edwin
WITHDRAWN:
tBuffum, Charles Abel
Malone, Augustus Charles
tcarr, Roy Nathan
Malcom, Charles
Carroll, John
Morgan, Jesse Josiah
Collins, Arthur R.
Mosher, Evan
Dodsworth, Robert M.
tStarr, E!Iward J.
Heartwell, Charles Leonard
"Stevens, William F.
Huntington, Charles Elmer
Warren, William Mark
Swain, Arthur W.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Davis, Magnet J ervais
DeWitt, Deelton Dyer

DIED:
Hargis, George Wayne
Thurman, Norman Dawson

•

REDONDO LODGE, No. 328.
Redondo, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Wm. Grasse!, ·Master,
James Guy Stark, Senior Warden,
Denton John Pitts, Junior Warden,
Peter Brown, Treasurer,
Augustus Medores Harter, Secfy.,
Fred'k Albert Barnes, Chaplain,
• Affilia.ted during the yea.r.

t DegreP.s conferred during the yea.r,

James Albert Searing, Senior Deacon,
Barre Augustus Furlong, Jun. Dea.,
Roy W. Culver, Marshal,
Ernest Clark Heath, Steward,
George Holm Anderson, Steward,
Louis Von Rockabrandt, Tyler.

"

483

MEMBERS:
Abell, James Nelso;n
More, Melvin John
Anderson, Arthur Torrence
Moyan, Alphonse
Anderson, George Holmes
Paine, John William
Barkley, Samuel Deal
Paine, William Lee
Bluett, James
Parker, David Jonathan
Brown, Peter
Parker, Perl Scott
Carter, Walter
Perry, Frank Lorin
Pitts, Denton John
Cate, George
Cleghorn, William Jackson, P. M. Protsch, Alex. Frederick
Culver, Roy W.
Quint, Leander John
Dry, Wilson Joseph
Raby, Henry George ·
Eneix, David Sylvester
Rettig, Louis Ebrohardt
Feder, Henry Charles
Rice, Calvin
Fisher, Martin Van Buxen
Rice, Charles Albert
Funk, George Spalatin
Riley, George Andrew
Furlong, Barre Augustus
Russell, John Tecumseh
Schlegel, John
Galentine, Charles Corrington
George, James Harvey
Scott, Raymond Chester
Gillespie, Joseph C., P. M.
Sea.ring, Jesse Albert
Grassel, Charles William
Shultz, James
Griffin, Cecil Lelland
Smith, George Vinson
Hansen, Alff Scharff
Smith, George Montgomery
Hardin, Louis Brownlow
Smith, Richard Dallum, P. M.
Harter, Augustus Medores, P. M.
Smith, William
Heath, Ernest Clark ·
Spaulding, Edgar Warren
Heath, Roy Watson
Spaulding, Elbert Augustus
Hinman, Orrin Clark
Sprinkle, Wm. Foote, P. M.
Holm, George Hansen
Stark, James Guy
Hull, Frederick Homer
Steel, Arthur Bridge, P. M.
Kew, James Herbert
Venable, Charles Earle
Klein, Alfred Henry
Venable, Pierce Samuel, P. M.
Kosterlitz, John C.
Venable, Thomas Eldriche
Leftwich, Jerry Tiffin
Von Rockabrandt, Loujs
Leuzinger, Adolph
Weaver, John Lenard
Lichty, Bert Christian
Weaver, Wallace Herman
Lindsayz Gaun Ja.,kson
Webb, Sherman Albert
Lindsley, Samuel Goodwin
Wells, Lucian Fayette
Mangold, Charles Clarence
Whiteside, Thomas Bingley
McMillan, Edwin Harbaugh
Whiteside, Ross Saxton
McNally, Henry Jacob
Whomes, Arthur
Meacham, Harry Douglas
Whomes, Joseph
Means, Charles Vernon
-83

484

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

WITHDRAWN:

WITHDRAWN:

Wooley, Lester J.

.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Allee, Jean
Antonielli, Clement

DaviRon, Jonathan Leeds
Scott, Nelson Elmer
Wooley, William Willard

VALLEE de FRANCE LODGE, No. 329.

Marin, Jules
DIED:
Cuguier, Louis
Dock, Simeon

KILAUEA LODGE, No. 330.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.

Hilo, Hawaiian Territory.

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.

Stated Meetings, Saturday nearest the Full Moon.

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

George Henry Vicars, Master,
Donald S. Bowman, Senior Deacon,
\Vm. H . C. Campbell, Sen. Warden, Charles Weatherbee, J11nior Deacon
Charles Francis Pai-sons, Jun. War., George Henry Pierce, Marshal
'
Adam Lindsay, Treasurer,
· Charles Reid Kennedy, Steward,
Frank Arthur Medcalf, Secretary, John Napier, Steward,
Charles William Hill, Chaplain,
William Siegfried Bohm, Tyler.

Louis Sentous, Jr., Master,
Jean Castera, Senior Deacon,
Bertrand ]. Barthe, Senior Warden, Clement Vincent, Junio1· Deacon,
Jean Mazet, Junior Warden,
Charles Deutsch, Marshal,
Ernest Fleur, ·Treasurer,
Henri Laprote, Steward,
Jean F. Mirassou-Casteig, Secretary, F. A. Loridan, Steward,
George Lacour, Chaplain,
John Francis La Croix, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Allemand, Jeremie
Apffel, Alex. LouiR
Barthe, Jean Bertrand, P. M.
Bouelle, Frank Auguate
Bresson, Francois
Cajal, Antonio Domingo
Castera, Jean
Gazeaux, Armand, P. M.
Chiarodit, Georges
Christopher, Louis Joseph
Curtet, Leon, P. M.
Deutsch, Charles, P. M.
Escallier, Leon
Eyraud, Joseph
Eyraud, Marcelin
Fava, Arthur
Fleur, Ernest
Gabard, Louis
Gianetti, Guisseppe
GraV'et, Adolphe CharlPs
Hiriart, Pascual
Humbert, Etienne Edward
Labourdette, Pierre

Lacour, Frederic
Lacour, George Solier
Louazon, Joseph
Machris, Alfred Paul
Machris, George Louis
Malay, Clovis
Mirossou-Castig, Jean F.
Mazet, Cacimir
Mazet, Jean
Nesa, Bernard
Pedy, Louis
Pellissier, Germain
Pourroy, Pierre
Puissegur, Frank Raymond
Roques, Paul
Sentous, Jules Jean
Sentous, Louis
Taix, Adrien, P. M.
Taix, .Jaachim
Tischhauser, Arnold
Tisnerat, Edouard
Vial, Scipion
Vincent, Clement

485

•
-46

MEMBERS:
Ainslie, Archibald
Curtis, Albert Guild
Anderson, Frank Moir
Deyo, Eugene Nelson
Andrews, Lorrin Andrews
Dickson, Charles
Andrews, Wentworth Kinney
Elliott, Harold Beaty
Arnswaldt, Anton Walter von
Engals, Hans
Arnswaldt, Ernest August von
Fairer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Baker, John Thomas
Fincke, Heinrich Wilhelm
Balding, William Thomas, P. M.
Fitzgerald, John
Baldwin, Erdman Dwight
Flohr, Ernest Gustav
Beckley, Henry Pitman
Forbes, David McH11ttie
Benton, Corydon Philemon
Forbes, Robert
Blake, George
Fraser, Alexander
Bohm, William Siegfried
Gere, Giles Henry
Bole, John Hodge
Gerlach, Henry August
Bowman, Donald Scott
Gibb, Arthur Charles
Brein, William
Goodale, William Whitmore
Breyman, Fred
Grace, John Johnston
Brunaghim, Everett
Green, Charles David
Butchart, David Creig
Guard, Thomas
Cameron, James Murray
Hapai, George Washington A.
Campbell William Henry Colen
Henderson, James
Conradt, Julius Wilhelm
Hill, Charles William
Cosgrove, James
Holmes, Everett Nathan

486
Howatt, James College P., P. M.
Howland, John Hastings
Humburg, John August
Hutchison, Robert Allan
Irwin, Archer
Jamieson, George
Johnson, Peter
Kelsey, Evelyn Henry
Kennedy, Charles Reid
Kennedy, John Downie
Kennedy, Ronald Clark
King, Charles Edward
Linder, Axtell Ferdinand
Lindsay, Adam •
Lindsay, Andrew Bonnar
Lobenstein, David Albert
Lougher, Robert
Lyman, Levi Chamberlain
Maby, John Henry
Mackenzie, Daibhidh
Macpherson, John
Maxfield, Daniel Edwin
McDougal, William Paul
McKay, William, P. M.
McKay, William
McKnight, William
McLean, Walter Scott
McQuaid, William Matthew
Medcalf, Fr~nk Arthur, P. M .
Moir, JtJhn Troup, P. M.
Moses, Robert Todd
Muir, James Marriner
Napier, John
Nichols, Ezra Francis
Omsted, Olaf
Overend, Henry Sheridan
Paetow, Frank Christian

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

PACIFIC GROVE LODGE, No. 331.

Parsons, Charles Francis
Parsons, Silenus De Wit
Patten, Harold Vaughan.
Peck, Philip
Peck, Samuel Stodole
Pierce, George Henry
Ray, Ira Elmer
Ray, Willis Alfred
Rice, Milton
Richards, Elmer Ellsworth, P. M.
Richmond, Frank Adams
Ridgway, Thomas Caldwell, P. M.
Ross, John Monroe
Rycroft, Robert Henry
Schoen, Irving Baruch
Shaw, Henry Leonard
Smith, John Ulric
Souza, Florentin, P. M.
Stobie, Charles Alexander
Stow, Charles Lethbridge
Turner, Lewis Farrant
Vannatta, William
Vicars, George Henry
Wall, Allen Serouny
Weatherbee, Charles
Webster, James
Weight, Edward Joseph
Weight, William
Willfong, Nathan Crosby
Williams, Geo. Herbert, P. M.
Wilson, George
Wise, William Seaburn
Woods, James Frank
Woods, Palmer Parker
Woods, Samuel Parker
Wright, Charles Edward

Pacific Grove, Monterey County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each montJ:i.

'

OFFICERS:
William Charles Cook, Master,
Charles K.. Johnston, Senior Deacon,
John Proctor, Senior Warden,
Richard Chivers, Junior Deacon,
Elmer George Brua, Junior Warden, Charles Edward Tuck, Marshal,
Robert M. Fitzsimmons, Treasurer, Charles Frederick Brown, Steward,
FAwin Simpson Johnston, Secretary, George Alexander Ingram, Steward,
George Francis Ingham, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Brink, William Otho
Jamison, William Thomas
Brown, Charles Fredrick
Johnston, Charles Kingsley
Brua, Elmer George
Johnston, Edwin Simpson
Lawrey, Francis Edward
Buffum, Eldridge Clayton
Chivers, Richard
Leary, Daniel Joseph, P. M.
Cook, William Charles
Lee, Abraham
Eardley, Bedson Alma
Lewis, Edward Branham
Fifield, Daniel Black, P. M.
Oliver, Joseph Kurtz
Patrick, Harry Lee
Fifield, Willard George
Fitzsimmons, Abram Miller
Peterson, John August
Fitzsimmons, George Lyman
Proctor, John
Fitzsimmons, Robert Miller, P. M. Richardson, Fred Orland
Gardner,· Joseph Marshall
Stalter, John
Gould, George Sylvanus
Steiner, Adam Jackson
Stewart, William Wallace
Harper, Hind, Jr.
Hart, Charles Edwin
Sutton, William, P. M.
Howard, Fred Dudley
Swanson, Oscar
Trimmer, Oliver Smith, P. M.
Ingram, George Alexander
Tuck, Charles Edward
Ingham, George Francis
James, Elias Olan
Tuttle, Charles Kirkham, P. M.
James, Richard L.
-41
WITHDRAWN:
Chamberlain, Charles G.
Moore, David Charles
Howard, Charles Millington
Morse, Albert Garrish

:-!Ill

WITHDRAWN:
Bowman, Reginald H.
Wachs, .M artin
Dale, William Frank James
DIED:
Decou, George Turner
Heminger, G1!orge Levy
Scbmi1lt, Wiehelm Daniel

487

DIFD:

•

Oger, Philip

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

488

M~rtin, John Isaac

SAN PEDRO LODGE, No. 332.
San Pedro, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

James Henry Powers, Master,
George S. Kling, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Burnett Duncan, Senior Ward., Niels Almy Larsen, Junior Deacon,
James Henry Johnson, Jun. Warden, Murrell B. Stetson, Marshal,
Edwin Butler Moores, Treasurer,
William Charles Greely, Steward,
.William Davis, Secretary,
L. C. Shell, Steward,
William Gordon Mills, Chaploin, ·
William A. Carpenter, -Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Abbott, Edwin Stewart
Abbott, Oceola C.
Ahlin, Karl Albert
Allan, Howard Clinton
Allison, Frederick William
Anderson, Johan Alfred
Asmussen, Marcus Frederick
Back, Mathias Christenson
Baker, Charles Joseph
Baly, Henry
Barton, Albert Garrett
Bell, Gilbert Clyde
Benjamin, Thomas Clay
Benjamin, William Brooks
Birkholm, Frederick Sophus
Brand, Robert Lee
Brose, John Ambrose Octovius
Buckley, John Wilkinson
Burns, Frank
Carpenter, William Algo
Clair, John Edward
Clark, James Robert Duncan
Clough, George Fletcher
Colman, Edwin Waterman
Dakin, William Stevens
Davenport, Walter Lewis
Davis, David P.
Davis, William
Duncan, William Burnett
Fawcett, Thomas H.
Foldat, John

Graves, Stephen Douglas
Gray, John, P. M.
Greely, William Charles
Gridley, Frederick Harland
Griffin, John
Goodwin, Andrew Peter
Gwaltney, John Sandford
Gwaltney, Sylvester
Hamilton, Kenneth Chapin
Hansen, Carl A. S. R.
Hanson, Christian
Hill, William Cornelius, P. M .
Hyatt, William Harvey
Johnson, Charles W.
Johnson, Gust Ferdinand
Johnson, John Henry
Kallenberg, Ernest Walfred
Karr, Frank
Kiff, Frank Oscar
Kittleson, Jacob
Kling, George Stephen
Krohn, Peter George
Lane, Henry Stanton, P. M.
Langkilde, Sage Andreas
Larsen, Niels Almy
Lawyer, Ila Calvin, P. M.
Lippman, Bernard Bear
Lippman, Lazard Harold
Logan, John Edward
Long, Harper Mervin
Lurman, George Henry Frederick

•

Mather, Rolf Harold A.
Milber, Ernest Albert
Miller, Charles Laird
Mills, William Gordan
Mitchell, Ray
Moores, Edwin Butler
Myers, Bernard
Neilson, Carl Peter
Oman, Eric William .
Pearce, Ira
Pearce, Peter
Peterson, Anton Marcelius
Peterson, Lawrence
Pitman, John Spence
Powers, James Henry, P. M.
Quinn, Richard
Richardson, Jacob Funk
Riggs, Murray Hez
Sargent, Charles Albert
Schroeder, Frederick William
Schroeder, Johan Frederick

Hixson, J"ared H.

489

Schwartz, Clifford Diece
Schwartz, Moritz
Seglem, John Lawrence
Spadeholtz, Lester Bates
Spencer, William
Stetson, Murrell Bailey
Stewart, George
Svenson, August Wilhelm
Svenson, Charles John
Supelveda, Albert George
Thornton, Daniel Clarkson, P. M.
Tutt, Edward Stanley
Walton, Joseph Wilson
Weddle, Joseph Milton
Weir, Jamee
Westerdale, Gus
Whitman, Frank Scott
Wickersham; William Howard
Winn, Albert
Young, Edward Everet.t, P. M.
Zaddart, David Ernest Johan

-105

WITHDRAWN:
Williams, James Henry

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Hartman, Edwarcl
Dodson, James Hillsey
Strom, Fred Nestor
DIED:
McDonald, Don B.

ALTA LODGE, No. 333·

•

Bridgeport, Mono County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Herman L. Schreck, Master,
Edward LeRoy Brandon, Sen. Dea.,
Leslie Edwin Elliott, Senior Warden, Baxter Dennis Barnes, Jun. Deacon,
Hiram Barnes Patterson, Jun. War., Alton Denwood Waltze, Marshal,
George Delury, Treasurer,
Benjamin Lewis Simmons, Steward,
J oshua West Towle, Secretary,
Claud Henry Hardy, Steward,
Alexander Franklin Scott, Tyler.

490

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

MEMBERS:
Barnes, Baxter Denis
Batjer, Frank Wilhelm Robert
'B ernard, Herbert James
•
Brandon, Edward Leroy, 1'. M.
Bump, George Henry
Cargill, William James
Chichester, George
Cook, Frederick William
Cook, Harry Sawyers
Creaser, John Alexander
Crowell, Frederick Everett
Day, Charles Eugene
Delury, George
Drake, Roy Niles
Elliott, Leslie Edwin
Hardy, Claud Henry
.
Hunewill, Napolion Boneypart
Kirkwood, Charles Melvin
Kirkwood, Emery Edgar, 1'. M.
Kirkwood, George Agustus
Laws, Arthur Herbert

Murphey, Edward Alanson
Murphey, John Douglas
Montrose, Harold Albert
McEwen, Duncan
Patterson, Hiram Barnes, P. M.
Patterson, Rezin Grant
Patterson, Robert Ralph
Rickey, Charles. William
Sayre, Andrew Phleming
Sawyer, John Merrick
Schreck, Herman Leonard
Scott, Franklin Alexander
Simmons, Benjamin Lewis
Smith, Samuel M., P. M.
Smith, William Henry, Jr.
Taylor, Charles Henry
Towle, Joshua West, P. M.
Travis, Abner Andrew
Waltze, Alton Denwood
Wedertz, Charles Edward
-41

DIED:
Kirkwood, Elmer Averell

COVINA LODGE, No. 334.
Covina, Los Angeles County,
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Amador Francis Coltrin, Master,
John C. H . Brunjes, Senior Deacon
Ralph Oliver Simpson, Sen. Warden, Percy L. Nash, l1mior Deacon
'
Alois Nigg, Junior Warden,
Jacob Brunjes, Jfarshal,
'
Thomas Francis Griswold, Treas., William H. Lavayea, Steward,
Bryce Morrow Given, Secretary,
Guy Ernest Fairly, Steward,
Joseph Fletcher Brow, Chaplain,
Robert Lee Kingery, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Atwood, George Nichols, P. M.
Brow, Joseph Fletcher
Benton, Henry Clay
Brunjes, Jacob, 1'. M.
Bristow, Charles E.
Brunjes, John Charles H.
Brow, William Charles Henry
Buller, Charles Osborne

•

Clapp, Eri Garfield
• Collins, Herbert Edward
Collins, Westwood Hugh
Colt, Arel Elias
Coltrin, Amador Francis
Coltrin, .Marion Chester
Coolman, John Henry
Corbett, William Henry
Dudderar, Franklin Edgar, P. M.
Dudderar, George Otis, P. M.
Fairly, Guy Ernest
Gilchrist, John
Graham, George
Graham, Levi D.
Given, Bryce Morrow
Greenlaw, Ernest Elwood
Greenlaw, Isaac
Griswold, Eugene I.
Griswold, Thomas Francis, 1'. M .
Griswold, William Merton
Griffiths, Charles Edwin
Harris, Howard
Hay, Daniel Creager
Hines, Bynam Robert
Hoogendyk, William
· Hulce, Clarence Lester
Ingram, Samuel S.
Johnson, Charles F.

491

Johnstone, William Arthur
Kerckho:O', Anton Phillip
King, Dana Charles
Kingery, Robert Lee .
Kline, John William
Lavayea, William Henry
Matthews, James Lewis, 1'. M.
Menefee, Charles
Menefee,. Clarence Wheeler
Nash, Percy Louis
Nigg, Aloia
Pelton, Frank Edward
Plant, Francis Benjamin
Pollard, Richard Caswell
Reed, James Denny
Richer, Charles Anthony
Rush, Bert
Scofield, George B.
Shouse, George Owen
Simpson, Ralph Oliver
Van Awken, Erastus W.
Vincent, Bert
Wanty, Charles Camille
Ware, Edward Septimus
Warren, William Mark
Webb, Benjamin S.
Wellington, Arthur Lee
Wilson, John Newton
-64

WITHDRAWN:
Brown, Carlton Barstow
Carrier, Elisha Bosworth
Deeter, Charles Clarence
DIED:
Coleman, Samuel S.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

:492

WEST GATE LODGE, No. 335.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.

•

Stated. Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Henry ·washington Louis, Master, Alfred Eben Adams, Senior Deacon
Jay Berthold Jacobs, Senior Warden, Charles Flavel Turner, Junior Dea.,'
Frank Elmer Edwards, Jun. War., Frank B. Reichenbach, Marshal,
Fred Zucker, Treasurer,
Arthur William McCord, Steward,
August Wackerbarth, Secretary,
Joseph Philip Loeb, Steward,
Joseph Lanes Murphy, Chaplain,
Edward H . iv!iller, Tyler.
MEMBF.RS·
Adams, Alfred Eben
Adler, Melville Charles
Altman, Harry William
Ancker, Albert
Archibald, Herbert Owen
Arons, Morris
Atkinson, Harry Ross
Auble, Walter Herman
Backer, Henry Frank
Bacon, William R.
Baer, Heney Simon
Baer, Oscar Isaac
Bagby, Edwin Hanson
Bailie, William Nassau
Bair, Herbert Stanley
Bakt>r, Robert Samuel ·
Barham, Albe1-t Dudley
Barman, Frederiek Ferdinand
Bartels, Bernard William
Bartholomew, Charles August
Baruh, Joseph
Bayless, Herman Gordon
Benjamin, Her.QJan
Berge, Carl Theo. Emil
Bernheim, Abraham
Bernstein, Arthur
Besselman, Charlie Fre<l
Besselman, Fred L.
Black,. George Nathan, P. M.
Black, Julius Richard
Bock, Charles

Bootht>, Stephen Sterling
Boswell, Albert Baldy
Bowen, J"ohn 'l'homas
Britt, Eugene Waddell
Brown, Francis Henry
Brown, Henry Stephen, P. M.
Brown, Robert George
Brownstein, Aleck
Brownstein, Daniel Jacob
Buell, Samuel Washington
Burns, ,John Charles
Campbell, Warren Irving
Carl, Irving L.
Cave, Daniel, P. M.
Chamberlain, Wm. Edwin, P. M.
Chandler, Logan Bertram
Chase, William Elmer
Cheshire, Charles Albert
Church, Samuel Barber
Cline, William
Cohen, .Susman .
Cohn, Albert
Cohn, Herman
Cohn, Isidor
Cohn, Isidor N.
Cohn, Jacob
Cohn, Morris
Cole, Louis Maurice
Cooper, Jay J.
Cotton, Henry Gilbert
Craig, William Talton

•

J

Danziger, Jake Morris
Darby, William T .
Dobbins, Irvin Waterman
Dooner, William Pierton
Doull, Albert Prince
Duncan, Francis Marion
Dunkel, Otto
Y,dwards, Frank Elmer
Ehrlich, Morris
Eisner, Isidor
Evans, Charles Edward
Everhardy, Matthew William
Feintuch, Abram
Figg, Gay William
Firth, Emil
Fishburn, John Eugene
Flaxman, Samuel Alex.
Francis, John Haywoo<l
Frank, Herman Washington
Frankel, Adolph
Frankel, Cecil
Frankenstein, Abraham Frankens
Gainsley, George Christian
Getz, John
Gibson, Robert Cary
Glafke, Charles
Goldberg, Harry Samuel
Goldsmith, Berthold
Goldsmith, George
Goldsmith, Gerson
Goldsmith, Joseph
Goldwater, Lemuel
Gottschalk, William M.
Grant, John Edward
Green, Robert
Greenewald, ·Aaron Ben
Gresswell, Herbert Kemp
Haines, Charles Johnson
Ha~burger, David Asher
Hamburger, Moses Asher
Hardman, James Manford
Harper, Arthur Cyprian
Harris, Howard Jacob
Hartnack, Albert Charles
Harwood, Benjamin

Harwood, Sprigg
Hasenburg, Fredreick B.
Hauser, Edward Charles
Hauser, Herman Julius
Haynes, John Randolph
Hecht, Sigmund, P. M.
Heiman, Jacob
Hellman, Maurice Samuel
Henry, Edward George
Herrington, Ira
Higginbotham, Samuel H.
Hill, Thomas Lincoln
Hinzeman, Edward Anthony
Hookstratten, Edward Gregoey
Hopkins, Benjamin Franklin
Hunsaker, William Jefferson
Hupp, George Shother
Hutchison, William McGuffie
Hyman, Morice
Jacobs, Jay Berthold
Jacoby, Abraham
Jacoby, Julius
Kahn, Frank G.
Kahn, John
Kaiser, Otto
Kalchheim, Eleias
Kauffman, ,Jules
Kazinsky, Joseph Sim
Keene, David Herman
Kellogg, Charles Giles
Kirkpatriclt, Campbell Berey
Kirschner, Samuel
Kitchen, John Franklin
Klein, Philip
Klingenstein, Isaac
Korn, Jake
Krafft, Justus, P. M.
Krassow, Carl Axel von
Kujawsky, Jacob
Kurtz, Carl
Kurtz, Saul Benjamin
Lamb, Hamilton Gordon
Lang, Augustus
La Niece, Edwin
La Strong, Frank

493

494
Laventhal, Isidor Edward
Laventhal, Jacob
Lazard, Edmund Myer
Leavitt, Frederick Clinton
Lerner, Samuel Alex.
Levi, Bernard
Levi, Herman
Levy, Alfred
Levy, Barnett Louis
Levy, Charles
Levy, Isaac Oury ·
Levy, Leo Louis
Levy, Louis
Levy, Samuel Garland
Lichtenberger, Herman Carl
Lissner, Meyer
Livingstone, George Benjamin
Llewellyn, David Edgar
Llewellyn, John
Louis, Henry Washington
Lowman, Isaac L.
Lubin, William
Lustig, .Jacob Stern
Lyons, Harry
Maas, Simon
Maier, Bernhard
Maier, Leopold
Mallory, Llewellyn Aloord
Marks, Joshua Harry
Marshutz, Siegfried G.
Maxson, Herbert Elmer
McArthur, Peter Robb
McCord, Arthur William
McDivitt, Frank Paul
McKay, Walter Warner
McMillan, Robert Wilson
Meertief, Charles
Mendelsohn, Edward
Mepham, Charles Henry
Merigold, Harry Patte1son
Merigold, Robert Lee
Mertes, Anton
Mertes, George Adams
Meyberg, Moritz
Meyer, Edgar IDman

ROSTER
Miller, Frank
Miller, Isaac Max
Mitchell, Frederick William
Mitchell, Robert
Mole, Harry Porter
Morgan, Cosmo William Edward
Morris, Julius Samuel
Morrison, William Edward D.
Murphey, Joseph Lanes
Murphy, Neil Hart
Naudain, Thomas Nelson
Neisser, Otto
Newbauer, Sanford Robert
Newmark, Maurice Harris
Newmark, Philip A.
Newmark, Phineas
Newmark, Samuel Mark
Nordlinger, Louis S., P. M.
Norton, Aaron Friedman
Norton, Richard Hen-ry
O'Neil, Owen Hugh
Parker, Joseph Herndon
Parker, Walter Francis
Partridge, Harry
Pe:tley, Arthur
Pettebone, Henry Welles
Plummer, Charles Hicks
Pollock, Frank Joseph
Prenzlauer, Albert
Raiss, Carl
Ramish, Adolph
Rangan, Joseph Alfred
Reichenbach, Frank Benja,min
Rendon, Victor Armand
Reynolds, John Jacob
Reider, Michael
'
Richards, Ellsworth :F:"rancis, P. M.
Ritchie, Matthew R. Steele
Robertson, Orville Leroy
Rosen.s tein, Fritz
Roth, Eugene Henry
Sain, Alfred Rants
Balkey, Jacob Samuel
Salzman, Max
Sargeant, Theo. Anthony

ROSTER.
Schiff, Ludwig, P. M.
Schiff, Solomon
Schutte, Johann Gottfried
Schwartz, Charles Edward
Schweitzer, Arthur Dell
Scolary, Philip Anton
Sheuerman, Bernhardt
Short, John Owen
Siegel, Frederick
Siegel, Myer
Silver, Herman, P. M.
Simms, Vinton Delos
Simon, Eli Harry
Skeel, William Spencer
Slotterbeck, Harry
Smith, Francis William
Smith, Thomas Sherman
Snodgrass, Henry Milton
Solomon, Jacob Carl
Stanton, Philip Ackley
Stein, Samuel H.
Steinbeck, Ernest Frederick
Steinlein, Karl
Stephens, Frank Arch
Stern, Gustave
Stevens, Will Phoender
Stewart, William DaniE>l
Stoner, William Greene
Streicher, Michael
Summerfield, Isidor

4!)5

Sweet, Otto
Swirt, John Ferguson
Taskey, Paul
Taylor, Waller
Thompson, Arthur Marsh
Tibbitts, George Arthur
'friest, Karl
Triolo, Charles
TriolQ, James Slorach
Trippet, Oscar A.
Tunison, Albert Lafayette
Turnbull, Mark
Turner, Chas. Flavel
Tyroler, Adolph
Wacherbarth, August
Wacholder, Joel
Walter, Albert
Ward, Benjamin English
Watson, James Henry
Weismeyer, Glen Morton
Wendt, Henry raul
White, Charles Henry
White, William Addison
Willard Eugene
Wittenberg, Ernest J.
Wood, Percy Neville
W oolner, Henry Sigmund
Youngerman, Moses
Zeehandelaar, Felix Josephus
Zucker, Fred
-302
WI'fHDRAWN:
Difani, Edward

FRUITVALE LODGE, No. 336.
Fruitvale, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Cameron McEwen, Master,
Arthur Alfred Barber, Senior Deacon,
Harry Elsworth Truitt, Sen. Ward., Frank Stuart Rosseter, liin. Deacon,
Fred'k Stuart Ellard, Junior War., Frank Oscar Schullerts, Marshal,
Fred'k Calvin Clark, Treasurer,
George August Sittman, Steward,
Wilder Munson Manning, Secretary, Thomas Calicoat Martin, Steward,
John ·Henry Helmstein, Chaplain, Josiah Tomlinson, Tyler.

496

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:

Anderson, Fredrick
Balus, Levi Marion
Barber, Alfred Arthur
Beckwith, Ward Maklelow
B eeman, R euben W.
Bendell, Charles
Blake, Llewellyn Week
Blake, Philip Henry
Bo!esworth, Britten
Bowlsbey, Edward S.
Boyle, Harry Louis James
Bridge, William Bayley
Bridgman, William Calib
Briggs, Charles Linford
Carew, Cornelius, P. M.
Carew, William Ambrose
Churchman, William H.
Clark; Frederick Calvin
Claudius, Peter
Clough, George M.
Cole, Albert Samuel
Colquhoun, James Craw.ford
Cornwall, Henry F.
Ctawford, Thomas Olin
Crosby, Daniel
Crump, John M .
Cutting, Edwin M.
Davis, Edward William
DePuy, Anson Augustina
DePuy, Edward Spence
Dicken, Charles Edward Lee
Dickson, Richard
Durant, Francis Alex.
Ellard, Fredrick · Stuart
Everett, Thomas Burton
Fake, George
Fehnemann, Benjamin
Finkenstedt; George
Fording, Howard William
Fraser, Walter Henry, P. M.
Frost, Andrew Nisson, P. M.
Gates, Edmund
Gates, Elwin William
Gibbens, Edward Louis

Greenman, Charles Hydron, P. M.
Gustafsen, August
Graf, Walter Henry
Graham; William Wagner
Hammel, Julius C., P. M .
Holman, Edward Allen
Holst, Peter Mathisen
Hackett, William Henry
Hambleton, Thomas Clair
Hansen, Peter Erland
Holton, Franklin Alex.
Howkins, Alfred
Hughes, Charles
Ingle, Elbert Quincey
Johannsen, John Olaf
Johnson, John
Kendrick, William
Kennedy, Edwin Amon
Lepori, Constantine
Leve, Marcus Solomanson
Lubbock, Oswald John
Lund, George Emil
Manning, Wilder Munson
Martin, Thomas Calicoat
Masterman, John Chester
Maus, Charles Frederick
McArthur, John
M'cDonnell, Noble Alex Johnson
McEwen, John Cameron
Merkel, George Karl
Merrill, William Francis
Mowbray, Henry Buckingham
Nason, Hubert Cecil
Nielson, John Alfred
Nordman, Peter
Post, Philip Joseph
Pladwell, Franklin Townsend
Rawson, William Henry
Rice, William Frederick
Roane, Robert Heron
Rudland, Arthur Charles
Rounsevell, Philip Nelson
Rosseter, F!ank Stuart
Schullerts, Frank 0.

ROSTER.
Schenck, Stephen Alex. Douglas
Scc>tt, William Clifford
Sittman, George August
Slavan, James P., P. M.
Snow, Arthur Pliny
Storch, Hugo William
Stow, Frank Lee
Stromer, John Antone
Thornalley, William G., Sr.
Thornalley, William G., Jr., P. M.
Thorsted, Peter Jansen
Tomlinson, Josiah
Tyack, Henry

Crowley, Charles Carlos

497

Truitt, Harry Elsworth
Wade, Prancis North
Walker, Herman Otto
Walton, Jacob Philip
Whitaker, Lucian Myron
Wiggenton, J~'mes W.
Wightman, Minor
Williams, David Greenleaf
Williams, George Francis
Williams, John Edward
Williams, Robert Henry
Williams, William R.

-113

WITHDRAWN:
Hul<{uist, Peter Earnest
Harding, George

CARQUINEZ LODGE, No. 337.
Crockett, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Alvin A. Paul, Master,
Eugene R . Harris, Senior Deacon,
Jacob Erratt Hughes, Sen. Warden, Wm. Murray Laidlaw, Junior Dea.,
Clarence Hushbeck, Junior Warden, Charles Philip Thomas, Marshal,
George Jones, Treasurer,
George Alfred Helmer, Steward,
Herbert George Powers, Secretary, William Sheldon Dunning, Steward,
George Herbert Whiteman, Chaplain, John M. Alexander, Tyler.
Alexander, John McLay
Anderson, John Christian
Astleford, Robert Jones
Bahney, Luther William
Barnard, Leo Harcourt
Beam, Arthur Wellesley, P. M.
Beda, Paul
Baltrusch, Richard Carl
Bowman, Melville Bryant
Broder, Joseph
Davis, John James
32

MEMBERS:
D elacruz, Manuel
Dorman, John Henry
Dow, David Winter
Edwards, Thomas
Fenwick, John Frederick
Freund, Edmund, P. M.
Futton, John Weir
Gabbs, John Lincoln, P. M.
Garwood, William Simpson, P. M.
Gates, Isaac Newman
George, Frederick Robert

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

498 .

Glick, John Alva
Goodfriend, Aaron Isaac
Gordon, Luther de Wayne
Harris, Eugene R.
Harris, Thomas Allen
Hodgkins, George ·Melvin
Howser, William Willard
Hughes, Jacob Erratt
Huntington, Ralph Stanley
Hushbeck, Clarence
Jeffery, Edward John
J ochem, Fred
Jones, George, P. M.
Jones, Harry Lorenzo
Knudsen, Louie
Laidlaw, William Murray
Le Bourveau, John Franklin
Long, John Albert
McCown, William Evans
McNaughton, William Francis
Moignard, Philip Rich'lrd
Moiles, Theo. Despard

MEMBERS:
Martin, Wallace Gustave
Matthews, Gustave, P. M.
Maxwell, James Baker
McCue, Joseph Benton
Molyneux, Robert Sefton
Nelson, Henry Coffy
Nightingale, Daniel Webster
Otto, Henry
Powers, George W ashingto11
Roulston, Robert John
Ryan, John
Sager, Edgar Pendleton
Scbawcofer, Leonard Tryon
Scherman, Anton .
Sears, William J.
Sbaug, Charles J.
Smith, Homer Albert
Smith, Selvester Kincade
Snyder, Ferdinand, Jr•.
Stanley, William Henry
Strasser, Fre.derick Karl
Swezea, Jay
Tanner, Ellis Theo., P. M.
Ticknor, Jason Charles
Thomas, Rocky Mountain
Van Dusen, Harry Hartman
Vosburg, William Gates, P. M.
Walker, Fred
Waller, Henry George
Waterman, Julius .Max.
Wilson, William

Narbett, James Thomas Syrian
Nicholls, Harvey Bartlett
Nuttall, William
Odell, Clarence Archer
Paul, Alvin A.
Petersen, Emil Henry
Polson, Paul
Powers, Herbert George, P. M.
Quinn, James William
Reid, Edmund Robert
Rodney, Hiram Ault
Rowlando, Matthew Arthur
Shaecker, George Oliver
Sherman, Francis Harvey
Sullenger, Albert Noah
Thomas, Charles Philip
Thompson, David
Turner, Manley Mansfield
White, Arthur Harry
Whiteman, George Herbert
Yates, Henry N ewto'n

Aleksa, Girolamo
Anderson, Everett Johnson
Ballou, William Addis
Bell, Robert Lemuel
Bingham, Samuel John
Black, Samuel .
Blackburn, Fred Abner
Blackshaw, Jos. Benjamin, .
Blackshaw, Jos. Edward, P. M.
Blair, Alex.
Canon, Solomon Royce
Clevior, James George
Cogan, Philip Joseph
Crofton, Robert Augustus
Curl, Charles Albert
Druding, Frank Anthony
Edwards, Edward Frederick
Ferguson, James Franklin
Goff, Hugh Ro~
Goodstein, Maurice
Grover, George
Hudson, Thomas Wade
Hunt, George Franklin
Huntoon, Joseph Horton
Jacobs, William Donaldson
Knapp, Edward Burke
Ladd, Zacr.aheus Ezra
La Rue, James Zeller
La Rue, Jeremiah
Lawson, Andrew Nels
Linaley, James Ambrose
Martin, Frederick Clinton

-65

WITHDRAWN:
Jones, Seneca
DIED:
Davis, William Augustus

SAN JACINTO LODGE, No. 338..

WITHDRAWN:
Minor, Edward

San Jacinto, Riverside County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
George Grover, Master,
Charles Albert Curl, Senior Deaco,.,
Robert.John Roulston, Sen. Warden, Alexander Blair, Junior Deacon,
George Franklin Hunt, Jun. Warden . .Frank Anthony Druding, Marshal,
Edgar Pendleton Sager, Treasurer, William Donaldson Jacobs, Steward,
Gustave Matthews, Secretary,
William Henry Stanley, Steward,
Wallace Gustave Martin, Chaplain, Daniel Webster Nightingale, Tyler.

•

499

ROS'l'ER.

501

ROSTER.

500

Lotz, John Henry
Marks, Emerson Joseph
Marshall, John Lundy
McBride, Francis
McBride, Walter
McDumont, Arthur
McFadden, C!aren ee Earl
\felrose, Richard
Miles, George ~'rancts
Mills, Charles Newton
Munday, 'Valter Linville
Pendergrast, Albert A ustin
Pendleton, Alexis Theodore
Pitt, John Frank
P <'me1·oy, Alhert \<Valker
Porter, Charles George
ReJelbnger, Fred

FULLERTON LODGE, No. 339.
Fullerton, Orange County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preeeding Ful' '1:oon.
OFFICERS:

Clar.ence Earl McFadden, Master, Fred Redelberger, Senior Deacon,
Charles George Porter, Sen. Warden, John Reeder Gardiner, Ju11. Deacon,
Charles Edward Ruddock, Jun. War., v\iilliam Thomas Brown, Marshal;
Elmer William Dean, Treasurer,
William Eugene Burgess, Steward,
James Garland Delozier, Secretary, Roy William Gustafson, Steward,
Charles Clark Chapman, Chaplain, Thomas James McCart, Tyler.
Amerige, Edward Russell
Barnes, Wilson Asa
Beaizley, Theophilus ·
Benchley, Edward Kellogg
Benchley, William Leonidas
Berkenetock, William
Bradfield, Elias Harvey
Bradford, Percy L.
Braly, John Claude
Brewer, Edward Wellington
Brown, William Thomae
Burgess, William Eugene
Case, George McClellan
Chapman, Charles Clark
Chilton, Jesse
Christie, ~amuel Longhead
Clark, George Cook, P. M.
Connoly, William Arthur
Conway, Meredith
Craig, Guy
Coulter, William Fair
Culmer, Edward Cruse
Cunningham, James Lloyd
Curtis, Charles Irving
Dahlman, Ludwig
• Daniels, Charles
Dean, Elmer Williams
Delozier, J. G.
Drips, Thomae George
East, Jamee
Fairbanks, James Francie

MEMBERS:
Ford, Charles Keith
Ford, Elmer R.
Ford, James Ezekiel
Ford, William Martin
Fowler, Franklin Lee
Frankenberger, Joseph Idell
Freeman, Alanson William
Freeman, William, P. M.
Fritz, Michael
Gardiner, John R eeder
Garrison, Thomas Landon
Good, Matthew Melancthon, P. M.
Haas, Charles Edwin
Hale, Willie Lee
Hamlin, William L ee .
Hamm, Lewie
Hanet, Jacob George
Harding, James
Head, Horace Caldwell
Henderson, Alexander
Holcomb, Francis Reuben
Holloway, Ralph Evans, P. M.
Holser, Raymond Frederick
l(ammerer, George
Kammerer, William
Krdghbaum, Oscar Adelbert
Leslie, William Lincoln
Lester, Calvin Devore
Lillie, Orrin W ileon
Lillie, Squire Joshua, P. M.
Lotz, Charles Edwin

Reese, Paul
Rich, Clayton L.
Ruddock, Charles Edward
Ruddock, George Albert
Robb, Charles James
Saine, David Thomas
Schulte, Henry John
Small, Clifton Mordant
Smith, Clinton Howard
Staley, Arthur,. P. M.
Stephens, Lewis Ely
Stephens, Rosco William
Welton, George Chauncy
Wiebers, Henry Max
Wintters, William Jacob
Witmer, .Jacob
Woodruff, Walter Jonathan

-96

DIED:
Davis, James Franklin

SANTA MARIA LODGE, No. 340.
Santa Maria, Santa Barbara County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Robert Wesley Earl, Master,
Egbert E. Blosser, S enior Deacon,
Lambert B. Coblentz, Sen. Warden, Frank Smith, Junior Deacon, .
Robert W. Brown, Junior Warden, T homas Boyd, Marshal,
Samuel Taney Coiner, Treasurer,
Samuel Fleisher, Steward,
Lewis L. Colvin, Secretary,
William Frank Davis, Steward,
Louis Joseph Morris, Tyler.
MEMBERS:

•

Alverado, William Pablo
Blosser, Elbert Eldridge, P. M.
Bloeser, Garett Lorenzo
Bonette, John Baptist
Boyd, John
Boyd, Thomae
Brennan, John Kerran
Brown, Robert Wesley
Qoblentz, Lambert B.

Coiner, Samuel Taney
Coker, Francis Martin
Colyin, Lewis Llewelleon
Davis, Bainard
Davis, Dalis Del'lver
Davie, William Frank
Dobson, Edward G.
Earl, Robert Wesley
E lliot, Walter, P. M.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

502

Elliot, George
Elliot, James Wesley
Finley, Theo. Randolph, P. M.
Fleisher, Marks, P. M.
Fleiaher, Samuel, P. M.
Fox, Llellyn Lawrence
Fry, Herman Constantino
Gutherie, Charles Merrion
Glines, Robert Cassius
Hartley, James Benton
Helvey,. Alfred Allen
Hemingway, George
Herring, Edward Lewis
Hobson, Clarence Jay
Ingram, John
Jansen, Robert Christensen
Johnson, Charles L.
Jones, Henry Martin
Kelly, Hugh Sylvester
Kemp, William Park, P. M.
Lapez, Joseph Virgil
Martin, John Howard
Mattie, J.ilelis
McCan, John Earl

McMurray, Theo. Zelem
Miller, Wayne Anthony
Morris; Louis Joseph, P. M.
Muscio, Guisepi
.
Nelson, Robert Andrew
Oliver, Manuel
Patterson, Adison Austin
Parish, Ernest J.
Perraud, Antonio
Pettie, James R.
Pierce, Francis Ogden
Pierce, William A.
Pratt, Clarence Melton
Reghetti, Elvizo
Rice, Charles Lee
Seely, James Watt
Smith, Frank
Smith, James
Stewart, Joseph Ross
Strahan, William Calvin
Supulvedo, Frank R.
Tunnell, George Robert
Waterson, William

-65

SUSPENDED .FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Miller, James Patterson
Blosser, Daniel Martin
Barca, Antonio M.

OXNARD LODGE, No. 341.
Oxnard, Ventura. County.
Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Robert Buchanan Edmondson, Mas., Herman Rudolf Erkes, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Reinhardt Livingston, Sr. W., John Raymond Gabbert, Jun. Deacon,
Fred'k Hartzell Thatcher, Jr. War., Samuel Bremner BaO'nall, Marshal,
Achille Levy, Treasurer,
Louis Stanley Lothridge, Steward,
Thomas Eaton Walker, Secretary, Rudolph Beck, Steward,
Norman Nash Badger, Chaplain,
Barclay Stokes Braddock, Tyler.

•

MEMBERS:
Alvord, Julius Bela
Engstrom, Frederick Edgar
Arnold, Charles Rupert
Eakes, Herman Rudolf
Argabtite, John Riley
Fulkerson, James Frederick
Avery, John Howard
Fulkerson, Jona than Floid
Bagnall, Samuel BremneT
Gabbert, Thomas Y.
Bard, Thomas Robert
Gill, Charles Alex.
Baum, George
Gill, Ernest David
Bayley, Charles Homer
Glenn, Jesse Lee
Beardsley, Robert Lee
(ioodyear, William Ernest
Beasley, Henry Charles
Gourlay, Arthur
Bellah, George Rolen
Griffith, James Keating
Black, Edward Jacob
Gudemann, Albert
Blackstock, Charles Fidelia
Hatch, Roger Knox
Boschke, Guy
Hawkins, Alonzo
Bovee, Henry Hopkins
Haydock, Richard Barrett, P. M.
Braddock, Barclay Stokes
Heckman, John
Brewster, Elbert Pineo
Herlick, Jessenius
Broughton, George Anthony
Henry, Hugh
Browne, Albert 0 'Brien
Hentrich, Lewis Valentine Bernard
Bruckman, Christopher
Hetrick, Jasper
Buckley, August
Hill, Ernest Rice
Carr, Earle, P. M.
Hitch, James Wilson
•
Carr, Martin Van Buren
Hoffman, Roy B.
Carr, Philetus Sprague, P. M.
Holst, Bendix
Carver, Harry Bernice
Hood, Theodore F.
Coen, Othello Jerome
Roswell, Jeremiah Trone
Cook, Leon H.
Howland, James L.
Cornell, Charles Henry, P. M.
Hughes, Edward Thomas
Coultas, Alex. Evert
Jennings, Robert
·
Coultas, Thomas Arthur
Johnson, James Leborn
Coultas, William Walter
Kastle, John
Crowley, Wilham Henry
Knight, IDy Grant
D)ckerson, William Warren
Lambert, Herbert Smith
Dorn, Charles I.
Lang, James Elton
Dreher, Gustav P eter
Le Blanc, Tl!omas Sydney
Driffill, James Alex., P . M . .
Lehmann, Edmond
Dunn, Oliver Benjamin
Lehmann, Leon, P . M.
Dwire, Dermon t
Lehmann, Mathew
Eastwood, George Edmond
Lehmann, Paul
Edmondson, Robert Buchanan
Lamb, Harry Ralph
Elliott, Charles John
Leavitt, Norman Jenkins
Ely, Martin Juda
Levy, Achille
Emtman, Theo.
Levy, Henry
Engstrum, Frans Otto
Livingston, Robert George, P. M.

ROSTER.

504

Livingston, William Reinhardt
Lodwig, Augustus Carl
Lothridge, Louis Stanley
Lothridge, Orson Stiles
Mack, Soloman Lawrence, P. M.
Marx, Charles
Mcinnes, William Joseph
McMillan, William James
Meyers, Benjamin Franklin
Miller, Joseph Charles
Milligan, John Leslie
Murray, Joseph Henry
Myers, John Hyland
Parish, John Wesley
Petit, Albert Clayton
Petit, Frank
Pettis, Frank Brockman
Plumb, Max Alarie
Poggi, Isaac Martin, P. M.
Powell, Heber Chase
Rice, Ernest Everet
Rice, Paul Alvin
Rice, ThQillaS Alex.
Rodaway, Alfred Biggs
Rose, Jacob Walter
Roth, Samuel Dean
Rust, William Le Page
Saviers, Winfield Scott
Sebastian Alfred Tennyson
Sebastian, John Louis
Sebastian, Robert Milton
Seekatz, George Philip
Shone, Edward
Short, Eli John Bird
Small, John Adams
Shillingston, James Wesley
Smith, Alvin Billings

Dilworth, William Dennison

Gill, Alexander

ROSTER.

Smith, Charles Thomas Elmer
Smith, Raymond Earle
Smith, Robert Percy
Smith, Winfield Scott
Snively, Ray Dean, P. M.
Snow, Hiram King, Jr.
Snyder, Frederick Autes
Snyder, Harry Nicholas
Spence, Jay
Steinmiller, John
Stewart, Isaac William
Thatcher, Amos Davis
Thatcher, Fred Hartzell
Thatcher, Harry Seymoure
Thatcher, Hugh Arlington
Thurston, Albert LeRoy
Turbett, Alvarado Doremus
Turney, Douglas
Turbett, John Smith
Vennink, Henry Leonard
Vi_ckers, Ashby Christian
Viles, Earl
V~rden, Benjamin S.
Wadleigh, Orville Austin
Walker, Thomas Eaton
Waterman, Emil Max
Waterman, William Max
Weill, Sam
Wellington, Lorenzo Dow
Whitmore, Charles Abbott
Wineman, Alvan Harold
Wineman, Henry Leonard
Wineman, Murray Jay
Witman, Henry William, P. M.
Witman, Roy Bradfield
Wolff, Moise Lazarre
-161

MANILA LODGE, No. 342.
Manila, Philippine ISlands.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

•

WITHDRAWN:
Grove, Millard Paine

DIED:
Johnson, John Samuel
Styles, Augustus P.

505

•

OFFICERS:
Amos G. Bellis, Master,
Herman Pink Hodson, Sen. Deacon,
George Northup Hurd, Sen. Warden, Ernest Nichols Stevens, Jun. Deacon,
Wilson Ansel Blossom, Jun. Warden, Ernest Faustine DuFresne, Marshal,
George Washington Vilain, Treas., James Francis Quinn, Steward,
Manuel Camus Roxas, Secretary,
William Keller Alther, Steward,
Oscar Franklin Campbell, Chaplain, Owen M. Adams, Tyler.
Adams, Ferrel
Adams, Owen M.
Ainsworth, James Evc)rett
Allan, Arthur Spelman
Allen, Richard
Anderson, Henry Charles
Bach, John
Baldwin, Robert Caleb
Ballin, Alfred
Bardelson, Samuel
Barner, John Emil
Barr, Robert Frederick
Beeman, John Hollen
Bellis, Amos G.
Best, Wm. R. Llewellyn, P. M.
Beyer, Charles William
Bills, Albert James
Bingham, William Otterlin
Bloch, Leonard
Blossom, Dallas Emerson
Blossom, Wilson Ansel
Boor, James Garfield
Bowers, James Newlin
Breaker, Frederick William
Breszee, Hugh Spencer
Brock, Leo
Brower, Charles Clinton
Brown, Bernard Herbert
Brown, George Edward
Bruening, William Her:ri:ian
Brurein,. Charles John

MEMBERS:
Burritt, Charles Henry, P. M.
Burton, Joseph Harvey
Cabling, Axel Rudolph
Campbell, Oscar Franklin
Casaday, George Harry
Chadwick, Harry Richmond
Chandler, William D.
Christensen, Waldemar Alfred
Clinton, Guy
Cobb, David Lewis
Cody, Frank Jay
Colbert, Perry Dudley
Collins, Patrick Joseph
Colton, Charles Maxwell
Cook, Ernest Bradford
Cook, William Harris
Cooper, Henry Richardson
Corey, Charles Dunn
Cowdrey, Clare:nce Eugene
Craig, Emmett Junius
Creagh, Merrick Woodman
Cromwell, Ellis
Urowley, Thomas Francis
Cullen, Gilbert Isham
Curry, Manley Bowie
Deichman, Carl F rederick
Deyo, Arthur Eugene
Doran,° John Henry
Drees, Franklin Henry
Du Fresne, Ernest Faustine
Durham, Jacob MeCiay

506

Eisenman, Francis Joseph
Elser, Henry William
England, Herbert F. Townley
Ernst, John, Jr.
Fagerquist, Carl August
Fawcett, John
Fayant, Joseph
Fels, John Gustav
Ferrier, Francis Coote
Fischer, Leo
Fletcher, Harrison Otis
Foehrenbach, Francis
Frank, George I.
Gaches, Samuel Francis
Gard, Adam R.
Garrett, Milan Jay
Gerdes, Claudius W.
Golt, John Thomas
Grant, Louis Theo., P. M.
Graves, Benjamin Hugh
Gray, William Smith
Greenwell, Samuel Alex.
Hale, Walter Franklin
Hamilton, Matthew
Hammer, Hubert H.
Hanek, John Frederick
Harding, John Ellery
Harn, Wilson Winslow
Harris, Emory Lorenzo
Harstedt, William Henry
Harvell, James Ephraim
Harvey, Stuart Smeillie
Haswell, William Clark
Headington, John Labon
Heinrich, Julius
Hillgrove, Thomas Albert
Hinton, Charles Pill
Hodson, H erman Pink
H olland, Guy
Horan, John J oeeph
Hurd, George Northops
Jenkins, John H.
Johnson, Louis Marsena
Jones, Alfred Belcher
Kahl, Otto Henry

ROSTER.
Kanekl, Julian S.
Kimball, Guy Burtrand
Kindler, Charles Jacob
King, Hiram W oodwaru
King, William Johnston
Kipp, William J.
Kirk, William
Koehler, Robert Gano
Lang, Louis Magnus
Lay, William Grant
Lear, Ben, Jr.
Lenthold, Calvin Andrew
Libby, Percy Campbell
Loring, Sylvester C.
Lynch, Walter
Lyons, Charles Truman
MacDonald, Alex.
Mainland, Henry
Margelin, Julius
Marquardt, Walter William
Ma8on, George Cooper
Masters, William George
Maynard, John
McClin~n, William Lewis
McDonald, John Francis
Mcintyre, William Hoyt
McKay, James
McLain, Charles Campbell
McLaughlin, Wendell
Miller, Alex.
Miller, James
Mille'r, John Thompson
Miller, Thomas Cavin
Milliron, Clark Jay
Mitchell, George Richard Carmen
Mizell, Chatham
Monson, Morton Lawrence
Moody, Joseph Elbert
Morton, Charles G.
Mygatt, Porte George
Nathorst, Charles Edward
Neisser, Stanislaus Maximillian
Nichols, Taylor Abraham
0 'Brien, Charles William
0 'Donovan, John James

ROS'l'ER.

• •

•

507

Squire, Charles Henry
Ostrand, James Adolph .
Stafford, Harry Eugene, P. M .
Parkinson, Lee Allen, P. M.
Stevens, Ernest Nichols
Patstone, Lewis
Stevenson, John Speer
P eabody, Henry Sterling
Stratford, Frank Cornish
Peat, James Bonner
Strattan, Guy
Perrine, Francis Joseph
Strattan, William
Pittman, Frank
Tarrant, Charles Wesley
Preston, Richard Andrew
Thebaut, William Maxwell
Preuss, O!Vlar
Thomas, Alvin James
Quinn, James Francis
Thomas,
Owen
Ramsey, William Russell
Thompson, Frank Carroll
Rankin, Adam Warrell
Thompson, William Ve9sey
Reinhart, Allan
Thomson, Thomas W.
Renner, Luther Abraham
'liirner, Allan Donald McGregor
Ricard, Oscar Francis
Turner, Frank Powell
Richards, David John
Vandeford, Ottis Leonard
Richards, William Wilson
Vaughn, George Irwin
Roxas, Manuel Camus
Veutorini, Nicholas Teodor
Ryer, Andrew George
Vilain, George Washington
Saleeby, Najeb M.
Waganer, Clark Eugene
Satterthwaite·, George William
Walker, John T.
Schlotfeld, Frederick J. Osbjorn
Walker; Joynee Harwood
Schoendube, Chas. Albert Harry
Walters, Henry Llewellyn
Schunming, Edward August Wm.
Walters, Thomas Edward
Schysull, August
Watt, Charles Dewar
Scott, Mark
Weltner, Charles Burch
Scott, Robert Brough
Wescott, Harold Edward
Seaver, George Henry
West dath, Lawrence Hawley
Selvidge, Joseph Burnside
Westervelt, William DeRyes
Sharman, Herbert
W eston, Warren Wallace
Sheaser, Lawrence M.
White, Frank Russell
Shoemaker, Clifford
Wilder, Whitford Thompson
Shuler, Joseph George
Williams, Charles Aben.lorn
Silk, Charles
Williams, Charles Edwin
Simmons, Charles Mercur
Williams, Richard Lewis
Simpson, Walter Henry
Wilson, Walter Eli
Smith, Charles Ayron
Wittenberger, Nace
Smith, James Eugene
Wolff, Thomas John
Smith, William John
Wolfson, Joseph Napoleon
Soll, Charles Harold
Wright, Albert Pleasant
Springer, Milton Earle, P. M.
-235
Squier, Herman Grey, P. M .
WITHDRAWN:
Cromwell, Frederick T.
Baker, William Pitt
Cruse, Thomas
Black, Henry James
Due, Jackson Angelo
*Cotton, Aylett Rains

ROSTER.

508

ROSTER.
· Edmiston, John Freebie
Mars, James Andrew
Marshall, James Edward
Enright, John Edwin
McCrory, Robert Morton
Fisher, Frederick Charles
Moulden, William Raymond
Focken, Frederick J. C.
Oliver, Ernest Warner
Gibbens, Leo Thomas
Oppenheimer, Zachary
Goodrich, Jay Cottam
Heppert, Albert George
Richards, Benjamin F.
Hogan, David Durnard
Schlitt, William Andrew
Ilse, Ludovig
Seibert, Albert Nicholas
*Keech, George
Seybolt, George Ernest
Krook, Lenus G. Theodore
tSkidmore, Wallace G.
Loomis, Ira
Yan Hoesen, William F .
Warwick, Clarence A.
Manchester, Louis B.
Manning, Lawrence Warren
Webster, Frank Daniel
Weise, Emil Ernst

..

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Slee, John Gregory
Austin, George Henry
Bernhard, John George
Beach, John Hartwell
Bish, Wm. Nelson
Campbell, Louis Joseph
Dell, Robert Victor
Gilbert, George Wesley
DuBois, Franklin T.
Lane, Frank Cyrus
Hargis, Lionel D.
Ross, James Grant
Sherman, William Edward
Harper, Frank W. F.
Waddington, James 8.
-0 'Connell, Thomas J.
Walstrom, David
Osgood, Harry Douglas
EXPELLE1):
Beabam, John Robman (E. A.)
Agnew, William Burl
:Flischer, John

Abel, Alex.
Aiken, John Martin
Allen, Henry Cornell, P . M.
Allen, John Wesley
Bailey, George Herbert
Barclay, John Hugh
Brown, James Dougal
Burr, John, P. M.
Burr, William Thomas, P. M.
Daniels, Elmo Charles
DeArmand, Roy
Dodd, Miles William
Erwin, William Francis S.
Evans, Roderick Dhu
Folger, Wilber Barton
Fraser, Simon K.
Genzel, Charles
Gifford, John Timothy
Grass, Frederick William
Harps, Jacob
Hawk, Charles Whetzel
. Hogan, Charles Sturdivant
Hopkins, Charles Chapin
Hubbard, Henry Cutler
Jenifer, James H.

509.

MEMBERS :
Judy, Clifton Wilson
Kidder, Frank Allen
Mackey, John Galbrath
Martin, Thomas Peter
Matthews, William Henry
McCandless, Charles William
Munro, John, P. M.
Myrick, Charles Nelson
Olin, Dwight B.
Powell, John Francis
Rickels, Thomas
Rinaldi, Carl Robert
Rinaldi, · Otto Franklin
Royce, George
Schwinger, Edwin Henry
Sedwell, George William
Strader,. Fred E.
Smick, James Phillip
Symons, Charles
Troxel, Frank Larue
Wagner, Claude C.
Walker, Thomas James
Weldon, Arthur
Wheat, James Edgar
-50
Wright, Francis Marion

I

WITHDRAWN:
Whitman, Adorna A.

DIED:
Kernan, John
Walker, Ashley Cabrill

DIED:
Keller, Theodore Emmanuel

SAN FERNANDO LODG:lj;, No. 343.
San Fernando, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:
John Galbrath Mackey, Master,
J acob Harps, S enior Deacon,
Wm. Henry Matthews, Sen. Warden, Jam es Edgar Wheat, Junior Deacon, •
Elmo Charles Daniels, Marshal,
James H. Jenifer, Junior Warden,
Charles Symons, Steward,
Frank Larue Troxel, Treasurer,
Fred E . Strader, Secretary,
Edwin Henry Schwinger, Steward,
John Wesley Allen, Tyler.
Clifton Wilson Judy, Chaplain,
•Degrees conferred during the year.
t Restored during the yrnr.

STARR KING LODGE, No. 344.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

•

OFFICERS:
Arnold Glaser, Master,
Harry L. Simon, S enior Deacon,
Wm. John Kidd, Senior Warden,
Charles Michael Hackmeier, Jr. Dea.,
Solomon Deutsch, hmior Warden, Charles M . Wollenberg, Marshal,
Albert H . Leaf, Treasurer,
John W . Gale, Steward,
Hiram French Wright, S eretary,
Thomas Smith, Steward,
John Henry Sampson, Tyler.

510

Abrahams, Abe
Abrahams, Myer
Alpers, Aaron Albert
Baer, Louis
Baker, William John
Batt, Saul Charles
Bernard, Samuel
Bernstein, Jacob Alfre1l
Benham, George Bates
Bernard, Emil Anthony
Berry, Gustia Shield
·
Blackman, Ellis Aaron
Blackman, Morris Jacob
Blackman, Oscar Lemuel
Blume, Mier
Bock, Jacob
Boyd, Robert
Brandenstein, Henry U.
Bray, Arthur
Bright, Joseph Aaron, P. M.
Brownstone, Louis H.
Bush, Ira Charles
Cale, Prancis Moses
Carlson, Mathew A.
Chollet, Henry Edward
Codington, Arthur David
Cohn, Carl
·
Cohn, Max
Cohen, Baruch
Cooper, Abraham
Cooper, John Freeman
Crow, Samuel Marmaduke
Curtaz, Oscar Hugo
Daniels, George Eaton
Daniels, Roy Alonson
David, Charles
David, Isaac Lazarus
Davis, Burris Kincaid
Davis, Philip
Dethlefson, Fred
Deutsch, Ferdinand
Deutsch, Solomon
Dinkelspeil, Henry George W.
Dodel, Hans

ROSTER.
MEMBERS:
Dodel, Xavier
Dowling, John Charles
Dudley, Tyler
Dugdale, George Edward
Duwer, August Paul
Elser, Edwin Emile
Eschen, Lee
Farley, Frank Eugene
Fletcher, Claude Mathew
Ford, John Franklin
1',orsyth, Frederick Jacob
Franklin, Harry Paul
Friedlander, Melville Lewis
Friedman, Henry
Gale, John William
Gale, Milton
Garren, David
Gates, Alex. Warren
Gensler, Julius
Gilbert, Lllo
Glaser, Arnold
Glaser, Michaelis
Glass, Arthur
Goldman, Isaac
Goodman, Isaac
Goodman, Joseph, P. M.
Grange, Louis August
Green, Isador S.
Hackmier, Charles M.
Hagerdon, Charles Henry
Hall, Andrew Leslie
Heath, Benjamin, Jr.
Herbst, Jacob
Herzog, William Melville
Higgins, Solomon Franklin
Hirsh, Samuel
Hirshberg, David Samt~el, P. M.
Hirshfeld, Isidor Morris
Hirshfeld, Peter
Hislop, Robert Cooper
Howe, Harvie Bosworth
Iberson, Robert T.
Jacobs, David
Johnson, Delius Oscar

ROSTER.

•

•

Joost, Henry M.
Katchinski, Bernard
Katz, Arthur S.
Keller, Henry A., P. M.
Keller, William Arthur, P. M.
Kidd, William John
Lazarus, Leon Ochile
Leaf, Albert Henry
Leland, Thomas Byers Wood
Lemoine, Emil August
Leopold, Samuel
London, Mortimer A.
Lester, Albert Mona
Levicy, Starling Clark
Levy, Albert
Levy, Maurice Thomas
Liebling, Samuel
Lillie, William Adam
Littlefield, James Mar~hall
Lobree. Aaron Allen
Lunger, Harry Elmer
Lynch, James Francis
Marston, Walter Harmon
Martin, William Augustus
Ma.yer, Emanuel Belasco
McNab, Gavin
Meinhardt, John David
Mish, Solomon Gerson
Munson, Charles Oscar
Myers, Oliver Hazzard Perry
Nathan. Herman
Nathan, Louis David
Neumann, Edward Rudolph
Neumann, William Frtnetick
Nielson, Wilhelm
Oppenheim, Samuel Philip
Owen, Ferguson
Patrick, Harry Wallace
Rafael, John
Rechsteiner, Emil August
Rehnstrom, Charles H.

511

Roberts, Adam
Robinson, John Lee
Rollins, Edwin A.
Rombach, William
Rosenthal, Henry
Salomon, Benjamin IrllSampson, Frank Robert
Sampson, John Henry
Samuels, Jacob
Schantz, I saac Biehn, P. M.
Schmidt, Theo.
Scott, Joseph Harry
Sexton, Horace Chapin
Simon, Harry Lewis
Smith, Harry L.
Smith, Thomas
Speck, John Henry
Spencer, Carlington Theo.
S tevens, Myron M]lnson
Strine, George Wesley
Tonkin, James Varco
Truman, Charles Henry Jacob
Unger, Isidor
Wegener, George Nich<:>las
W ehser, Will Emil
Weidenthal, Samuel H .
·weir, James
Wendling, George Xavier
Williams, William ~bert
Winterberg, Gustave Conrad
Withington, Charles M.
Wittman, William George
Wolfenden, George Carlile, P. M.
Wolfe, Edward I.
Wollenberg, Charles M.
Worster, William Dennett
Wright, Hiram French
Yeatman, John Andrew
Yonge, John Duke
Zelinsky, David
-169

WITHDRAWN :
Nadel, Louis

ROS'l'ER.

ROSTER.

512

PALO ,ALTO LODGE, No. 346.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Gilbert, James Dillon

. Palo Alto, Santa Clara County.

DIED:
Cohn, Harry
Herzog, Henry Joseph

Cohn, Adolph

BRENTWOOD LODGE, No. 345.
Brentwood, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Robert Wallace, Jr., Master,
Austin Watson Collis, Senior Deacon,
Orlando Columbus Prewett, S. W., Walter B. Hinebaugh, Junior Deacon,
Chas. T~ Shellenberger, Jun. War., Rueben E. Lemoin, Mars-ha/,
Geo. Henry Ludinghouse, Treasurer, Charles Cowan, Steward,
Wm. Jefferson Estes, Jr., Secretary, John Boyd, Steward,
Ulysses A. Boydston, Chaplain,
Watson P. Morgans, Tyler.
Agnew, J esse B.
Altizer, William Taswell
Babb, George Alfred
Bettens, Albert
Bonnickson, Hans
Boyd, John
Boydston, Erwin Johnson
Boydston, Ulysses Amhler
Bridges, Aaron Nelson
Brown, Frank Thomas
Collis, Austin Watson
Cowan, Charles
Dean, Aluen Ora
Estes, William Jefferson
Gardner, Robert
Glass, George Walter
Grey, Minion Edward
Grigsby, Byron Lindsey, P. M.
Grigsby, Warren Miller
Harley, Sherman Ellsworth
Hinebaugh, Walter Broox
Howard, William Guy
Kelley, Fernando Gus
Estes, Frederick R.

MEMBERS:
Koppernd, Anders Harold
Lemoin, Rueben E. ·
Lucksinger, Frederick M.
Ludinghouse, George Henry
McCabe, Roy Lester, P. M.
McKean, William Giles
Morgans, Watson Philip
Morgans, William.Watkins
Nason, James Edward
Nunn, George
Pearson, Frank
Prewett, Joseph Granville
Prewett, Orlando Columbus
Russell, George Clifforu
Shafer, George Henry
Shellenberger, Charles Thomas
Stone, Harry
Taylor, Volney
Veal, William Worth
Wallace, Robert, P. M.
Weihe, Frederick William
Whipple, William M.
Williamson, William Colbert --46

WITHDRAWN:
Jereslaw, William

513

Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Albert N. Umphreys, Master,
Geo. Washington Harms, Sr. Deacon,
Emil F. Weisshaar, Senior Warden, Claude Standish Downing, Jr. Dea.,
William Benjamin Allen, Jun. War., Clarence Eugene Henry, Marshal,
John Fletcher Byxbee, Treasurer,
John Johnson Monzingo, Steward,
William "Clowes Werry, Secretary, Arthur Lee Munger, Jr., Steward,
Lewis Harmon Barker, Chaplain,
Richard Werry, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Ackley, Edward
Allen, Benjamin Graves
Allen, William Benjamin
Atterbury, Charles Delaplane
Barker, Lewis Harmon, P. M.
Barrett, Frank
Bille, George Christian
Black, Marshall
Blackman, Harold Stabler
Blake, Thomas Barnard
Boyd, John Duncan
Braunschweiger, Edward
Burke, William Edmund
Buss, William Gardiier
Byxbee, John Fletcher
Campbell, Henry Avery
Childs, Clarence E.
Clack, George Sydney
Clack, Sydney ·
Clute, Elbert Schuyler
Cochran, Thomas Craig
Colton, Albert Sanborn
Crabtree, David Montgomery
Crooks, John Chisholm
Dean, William
Decker, Charles William, P. M.
Downing, Claude Standish
Dudfield, John
Duncan, Peter Young
Duryea, Edward, Jr.
Engle, Alfred Jones

k

Evans, John Jeremiah
Ferguson, Aleck Sanford
Firebaugh, Charles Ludwig
Foss, James Galvin
Gallagher, Gustave Charles
Gilman, Charles Edward
Gilman, Philip Kingsnorth
Goodman, Theodore Henry
Griffin, James Owen
Raehl, Harry Lewis
Hall, George Elbert
Harms, George Washington
Henry, Clarence Eugene
Hodges, Charles Edward
Hughes, Watt
Hughes, Wiliiam Thomas
Johnson, John Olaf
Kaiser, Joseph Jacob
LaPeire, Edwin Arnaud
Laumeister, Gustave
Lausten, Brousen Peter
Lockey, Richard, Jr.
Loeser, Robert M.
Mahany, Henry John Wade
Martin, Ernest Whitney
Martin, James Dickason
May, John
McConish, Ralph Clinton
McDowell, John Ezra
McFadden, Ralph John
Meares, John London

ROSTER.

514
Metz, William
Miller, Clark Flickner
Monzingo, John Johnson
Morris, Joseph Jonathan
Palmateer, Theron Josiah
Patrick, William
Patterson, Henry Samuel
Patton, John Quincy
Perry, Henry Fates
Prewitt, Jesse Augustus
Ramsay, Hugh A., P. M.
Reinhart, Jacob Henry
Roberts, Hugh Roland
Roller, Arthur
Roller, Josiah Wickerd, P. M.
Roller, Milton Benjamin, P. M.
Ryan, Shirley Bell
Sabin, Henry Wells
Saunders, Arthur Bertram
Saunders, Howard Elwood
Schwarzkopf, Rudolph Herman
Shumate, Charles Henry
Simkins, Henry Walter
Sonnickson, Andrew Ou'tzen
Spencer, Allan Thomas

Spencer, John
Strong, Sylvester
Taylor, Charles Marvin
Taylor, Edwin Lothrope
Taylor, Henry Thoma~
Taylor, Rodman M.
Thoits, Willis Clifford
Thomas, Benjamin
Thompson, Philip Johnson
Umphreys, Albert N.
Upham, Henry Lauren!!
Walker, Charles Conwell
Walker, Lou Cain
Wallace, Van Alstine
Waring, Gerald Ashley
Weck, Edward, P. M.
Weisshaar, Emil Florentz
Wells, James Webster
Werry, Richard
Werry, William Clowes
Williams, George
Winsor, Anon A.
Woods, Ira McMicken
Yost, George Herbert
Zschokke, Theodore Christian-112.

ROSTER.

•

•

McKINLEY LODGE, No. 347.
Richmond, Contra Costa County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

William Henry Johnston, Master,
Leonard Little, Sinior Deacon,
Archibald H. Campbell, Sen. War., John Herbert Rumrill, Jun. Deacon,
Frank McV. Palmer, Junior Warden, William Lewis Thompson, Marshal,
John Richard Nystrom, Treasurer, William Brook 'Richmond, Steward,
Edward Brackett Willets, Secretary, William Edward Rose, Steward,
Harry Leander Ells, Chaplain,
John Roth, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Benison, Walter Scott
Blake, Charles Robert
Boorman, Benjamin
Brown, Warren Bateman

Barney, Hawley Nathan, P. M.
Barnhouse, Howard Remus
Bayless, Benjamin Oscar
Belding, William Forsythe

,i

Calfee, David Walker
Campbell, Archibald Hamilton
Campbell, Palmerston Cornick
Church, PaleB, P. M.
Clark, Jl!farvin Talor
Clyma, William Stanley
Cowan, Charles Henry
Coward, John Robert
Critchett, Frank
Dalton, Charles Irvin
Davis, Daniel David
Differding, Henry
Dolan, Edward
Down, Fred Robert
Ells, Harry, P. M.
Eakle, John Barrett
Follett, Geary Alton, P. M.
Fitzpatrick, Patrick B. •
Fenwick, William Brownlee
Forster, Carl Emil
Fox, William Alex.
Gillispie, Robert
Gregory, John Hamilton
Hammill, Eddie Luman
Hopkins, David
Hulse, John Sidney
Johnston, Milford Ray
Johnston, Henry Albert, P. M.
Johnston, William Granville
Johnston, William Henry
Jones, J. Shirley
Kirkwood, Edward
Kinney, Herman Bishop
Keeney, Thomas Jefferson
Kennedy, Charles Clark
Leight, William Alexander
Little, Leonard
Loavell, Lewis Edward
Loucks, Don Anderson
Lowman, Willie Boydkin
Lucas, William Austin

Martin, Joseph Sautana
Mason, William Daniel
McCombs, Frank
McVicker, Archibald
Merrill, Lewis Elmer
Neville, Frederick Morgan
Mitchell, David Leroy
Morrison, John Mcintyre, P. M.
Murray, John
Nystrom, John Richard
Odell, Alfeus
Palmer, Frank McVicker
Park, George
Parker, Robert Lee
Peury, Henry Lincoln
Picton, William
Ragland, Jay Gould
Richmond, William Brook
Roth, John
Rumrill, John Herbert
Schoen, Frederick
Severio, Frank
Slattery, Richard Edmond
Smith, Beverly Bailes
Smith, Herbert Williamson
Sutherlen, William Nelson
Thomas, Benj. Franklin
Thompson, William Lewis
Topping, George Washington
Trull, Walter B.
Wagner, Ernest Herbert
Walker, Thomas Shelby
Walker, William Andrew
Woiriek, John Calvill
Whitcomb, Charles David
Whittle, John Franklin
Willets, Edward ·Brackett
Williams, William Henry
Wood, Frank Goodacre
Wood, Robert Newcomb
Wylie, Oliver
-90

WITHDRAWN:
Jordan, Leander Richard

515

Wright, Charles Herbert

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
SUSP.ENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Still, Winfield
DIED:
Richards, William Miles
J

SAN BERNARDINO LODGE, No. 348.
San Bemar~no, San Bernardino County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Benjamin Franklin Bledsoe, Master, Charles Gorall, Senior Deacon,
William Lear Brown, Sen. Warden, James Shedden, Junior Deacon,
Henry Adolph Wierwille, Jr. War., John B. Phillips, Marshal,
\Villiam Swayzr Hooper, Treasurer, James Edward Albert, Steward,
John Flagg, Secretary,
Peter John Dubbell, Steward,
Jacob Samuel Jonas, Chaplain,
Sydney Mee, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Boggs, William Stewart
Bright, J. Shirley
Bright, Joseph Shannon, P. M.
Brill, Henry Edward
Brison, Wm. Willey, Jr., P. M.
Brown, Archie Rutherford
Brown, William Lear
Brush, Frederick Morton
Burgoyne, George
Caldwell, Oliver Morton
Carey, Charles Francis
Carpenter, Lucius Jerome
Carner, Jackson Ernest
Carner, Jamee Henry
Carter, Tom Osland
Cleveland, Frank A.
Cobbs, Albert Richard
Cohn, Caesar
Cole, Frank Horace
Conner, Henry
Coultrap, Clyde
Craw, Ralph Richard
Crutchfield, James Edgar
Curtis, Isiah Hamilton

Albert, James Edward
Aldridge, Marion Lafayette, P. M.
Aldridge, William David
Allen, Byron William
Allen, Oliver A.
Allen, William David Fra:riklin.
Allison, Charles Loran
Allison, Claude H.
Allison, Monte Demoss
Andreson, John, Jr.
Anker, Rudolph
Arbioe, Joseph Jacob
Armantage, William Lilley
Armstrong, Royal Milton
Ball, William Amos .
Batchelor, Sherman G.
Benjamin, Isaac
Benson, Nels R.
Bledsoe, Benj. Franklin
Bledsoe, Howard
Bledsoe, James Blair
Bledsoe, Robert Emmett
Bledsoe, Walker Keith
Boehm, Hiram J eeee

..

517

Daley, Charles Jefferson
Hooper, William Swayze
Daley, Frank Barber
Houghton, Lagona Derias
Daley, Michael Breen
Howland, Harry Charles
Isreal, Joseph
Donnatin, Frank
Downer, Abner John
Ingersoll, Joseph
Irving, Carl
Draper, Joshua Clinton
Irving, William Edward
Draper, Stoddard Stevens
Izenour, Angus Wesley
Dresser, Nathaniel A.
Johnson, Ammi Keyes
Drew, Arthur Linford
Drew, Fred Charles
Johnson, John Franklin, Jr., P. M.
Jonas, Jacob Samuel
Drew, Roy Fordham
Dunn, Frederick William
. Kendall, Albert Glenn
Kelley, Stephen Francis
Eadie, William Hunter
Kerrn, William
Eddy, Arthur James
Keyser, Howard
Eikelman, John George
Esler, Frederick John
Levy, Henry Raphael
Levy, Morse Samuel
Feetham, Geo. Francis Andrews
Fisk, Oliver James
London, Soloman
Fitting, Hans H.
Longmire, Rufm1 Elbert
Flagg, John, P. M.
Loring, George Washington
Fleming, James
Lothrop, Clinton Augustus
Frith, Joseph Breathwhite, P. M. Lyman, Eugene Harding
MacGillivary, Russell
Fry, Gailen K.
Manahan, Charles William
Fussell, Elbert Ro11s
Manson, William Alex.
Gansner, Henry Florian
McElvaine, Jefferson
Geiger, Frank
McElvaine, William Augustus
Glasgow, Nathaniel B.
McCormack, Barton James
Glatz, Albert
McMullen, John Calvin
Gorall, Charles
McNabb, Samuel Brown Wylie
Graham, Henry Noel
Mettler, Alfred Samuel
Grow, Charles Melville, P. M.
Miller, William Henry
Hadden, Thomas
Mort, Clyde Everett
Hall, Wheeler D.
Murray, Thomson Keith
Ham, Alex. McMillian
Neff, J. Roderick
Hanf, Charles Morrill
Neff, Lawrence Wilson
Harbison, Robert Clelland
Newcomb, Leroy E.
Harmon; James Flanders
Newton, DeWitt Perkins
Harrison, John
Nye, William Edward
Harrison, John Parker
Paddock, Aland Bertram
Henderson, John Alexander
Parker, George Horace
· HHkebrath, Charles Philip
Parker, Wilbur Melton
Hibbard, Oscar Henry
P eck, Elbert Charles
Higginson, Osmond Francis
Pert, Thomas James
Hight, John Platt
Pfeiffer, Louis Alexander
Hitchcock, William England

ROSTER.

518
Phillips, John B.
Phy, John M.
Poppett, Edward
.t'oppett, John Robert
Prescott, George Wash.
Preston, Godfrey
Rawiez, Louis Morris
Rawiez, Samuel R.
Rich, Joseph Eugene
Rogers, Daniel Ambrose
Rogers, William Horton
Rourke, William
Rouse, Charles Augustus
Ryan, Edmond D.
Runyan, James Madison
Schlott, Dwight Coleman
Scott, Josiah Park
Shatto, Samuel M.
Shay, Walter Alexander,
Shedden, James
Sibley, Hiram Dell
Slamal, John
Sloat, Orrin Peck
Starbird, Edward Palmer
Starke, William

Mull~n, Jay B.

Stevenson, Neltson Romeo
Stevenson, Oren Menzie
Stiles, William Heman
Stone, Moses Phillips
Smith, James William
Smith, Victor C.
Surr, John Howard
Swarthout, Albert Riley
Thompson, Robert Scott
Thoms, Clifford Carlson
Tillapaugh, George Washington
Torstenson, Nels Otto
Tyler, Charles Beach
Underwood, Frederick Gilbert
Wagner, Walter Dougla.s, P. M.
Waite, Everett Randall.
Weston, Joseph
Whitham, James Henry
Wierwillie, Henry Adolph
Woodling, Frank Leighton
Yarnell, John L.
Yerkes, James Houston
Young, Walter
Zombro, Sumpter F.
-187
WITHDRAWN:
Neff, Adam Adison
Young, Howard

EXPELLED:
Bailie, Norman Alexander

Levy, Samuel

DIED:
Levy, William

ROSTER.

5HI

SEQUOIA LODGE, No. 349.
Oakland, Alameda County. ·
· Stated Meetings, nrst Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

John Ryle MacGregor, Master,
Francis Delmar Dolbier, Sen. Deacon,
Gilman Wm. Bacon, Senior Warden, Charles Chubb, Junior Deacon,
Frank Flint Porter, Junior Warden, Orville· Benton Caldwell, Marshal,
Geo. Sargent Meredith, Treasurer, Edward Floyd Hughes, Steward,
John William Gwilt, Secretary,
Fred James Whiting, Steward,
J<;1mes Cairns Cole, Chaplain,
James Rothschild Sloan, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Cooley, Frank Lucius
Coon, Mathew Fernandez
Cox, William Warren
Currlin, Varlin Albert
Currlin, Waldemar Edmund
Darrow, John Walworth
Davis, Warren Marcus
Dixon, James Isaac
Dolbier, Francis Delmar ·
Donahoo, Edwaru Denniston
Doud, Roy Wells
Dowdle, Everett Stanley
Dukes, Charles Alfred
Dyer, Theo. Xavier
East, Henry
Elkinton, Jacob Henry
Elliott, John Scholes
Ellis, G~orge Walter
Ellis, Louis Albert
Emery, Charles Del:rpar
Fant, Edwin Mason
Filgate, James Robert
Galbraith, Alexander
George, William Henry
Gibbs, Samuel Henry
Gilbert, Thomas
Gilbertson, James Coolidge
Gilbertson, John
Gillet, Wallace Levi
Grahn, Walter A.
Gray, Leon Ernest

Aikens, Ebbie Campbell
Anthony, Thomas Maurice
Atherton, Almon Dwight
Bacon, Gilman William
Baker, Arthur Tullock
Baker, Harry Hamilton
Bartelme, Ferdinand John
Bayley, Frank Leslie
Bennett, Peter
Blessing, Chas. Bernhardt
.Bouterious, Amiel Oliver
Brill, Oscar Charles
Brodien, Edward Benjamin
Brown, Frank Theodore
Brown, Harry Winchester
Brown, Samuel, P. M.
Browne, Roy James
Brune, Alfred Ernest
Cahill, Patrick
Caldwell, Orville Benton
Chapman, William H.
Chesney, William James, P. M.
Chubb, Charles
Chubb, William Henry
Clarke, Austin Fisher
Cobb, Lewis Harrison
Cobb, Rufus Warren
Codington, Charles Frederick
Coffman, Alfred Bonh
Cole, James Cairns, P. M.
Collins, Willis Harold

520
Gwilt, John William, P. M.
Hadler, John Henry
Hadley, Marquis De Lafayette
Halliday, George, P. M.
Hallowell, Edward Lewis
Hamilton, William Britton
Hanna, James Clendenin
Hansen, Andrew Martin
Harford, Albert Kellogg
Harlow, Wilbur Burton
Hartley, David Clough
Hawley, Robert Tipton
Heathorne, William Elisha
Hendrickson, Alonzo Bell
Hobron, Samuel Harris
Hopkins, Dan Leslie
Horton, William Rogers
Haugh, Edward Stanford Samuel
Howard, Willis Clinton
Hubbard, Ludlow
Hudspeth, Charles Ernest
Hughes, Edward Floyd
Huntley, John Stanley
Hurlbut, Reuben Preston
Husband, Charles, P. M.
Hutchinson, Gilbert Henry
Innes, John
·
Irish, Clifford Lucius
Jeffery, Charles Alex.
Jeffery, Richard Edgar
Jenkins, William Norman
Johnson, Charles, Jr.
Journal, Philip Samuel
Jung, Gottlieb
Kehoe, William Evans
Keifer, Harry Edward
Kelly, Alexandei; Simpson
Kergan, William Wesley
Kirkland, John Nicholson
Klinkner, Herman Parke
Knapp, Sherman Irwin
Krueger, Maximillion Adolphus
Lackey, Howard Julian
J,ake, Rufus Nathan
Laufer, Frederick William

ROSTER.
Letts, Henry John
Lewis, Hiram James
Lewis, Walter James
Lilley, John Francis
Lind, Edward Martin
Lindeblad, Peter
Lockwood, Julian Lyman
MacDonald, Arthur Thomas
Macfee, Neil
MacGregor, John Ryle
MacMillan, Alexander
Mariotte, Paul Alonzo
Marquardt, Reynolds Gottlieb
Martin, George Hayward
Martin, George Washington
Martin, Thomas Clark
McClunie, William Johnston1.
McCoy, William Johnson
McKinnon, Chester Gordo:u.
McKinnon, Russell Norman
Mead, Rollen Orlando
Meredith, George Sargent
Metcalf, Solon Thayer
Mielenz, Franeis William Pinnick
Miller, Wesley Washington
Morris, Ray Hunt
Muller, Robert Eugene
Myhre, Samuel Alfred
Nebrkr, Frank Orlando
Nickerson, George Whitefield
Nielson, John
Norman, Robert Edward
Norton, Dixon Beldon
Olmsted, Theodore
Olsen, Hans
Olsen, Oscar
Olsen, Sydney Gilbert
Parke; James Henry
Parlane, Lewis James
Pettigrove, Alfred Raymond
Platt, Samuel J.
Porter, Frank Flint
Porterfield, Arthur Colmery
Pou~ter, Alfred Mayer
Poulter, .Charles Thomas

ROSTER.

..

Powell, Charles Ezra
Quinn, Paul John
Ragland, William. Beverly
Ileag)l, Edward Mitchell
Reed, Clarence Monroe
Recd, George William
Rogers, Eugene. Charles
Rugg, Ray Ruggles·
Russell, Georgtl Albert
Sayers, John Walter
Schwaner, William Frederick
Scott, George Amos
Seavey, Benjamin Eastman
Seavey, Ralph Eastman
Seiler, Herbert Frederick
Sharp, Craigie
Shepperd, Elmer Earl
Sloan, James Rothschild
Smith, Dudley Almonte
Smith, Ray Sidnty
Smith, Robert Tangier
Smith, Rufus Garfield
Somerville, Samuel Moir
Sparhawk, Edward Evnest
Starbuck, Henry Fletcher
Stein, Philip Harry
Stewart, John B. A.
Stieper, Julius Theodor
Stratford, Chester Grant

Aikin, Arthur Gates

Davis, William Wallace

521

Stricklen, Edward Griffith
Struckman, Paul Fred
Stuart, Victor Daniel
Swift, J ease Herbert
Taylor, Albert Enri
Taylor, Charles Harold
Taylor, Guy
Thaler, Conrad Henry
Thompson, Edward Anderson
Thompson, Thomas Jeffries
Trousdale, Elmer Hill
Trousdale, Otto J.
Tutt, Richard William
Valentine, Lincoln Garfield
Vane, James Playford
Walker, William Pearl
Wells, Herbert Arthur
Whiting, Frederick James·
Whitmore, Campbell Dunlap
Whitehead, Rupert
Whitney, Hamlin Avery
Williams, Clarence
Williams, William
Williston, Thomas Allan
Wilson, Oliver Thomas
Winchell, Calvin Smith
Wood, James Burris
Wyndham, Arthur Cherrington
Zeis, Adolph
-210

WITHDRAWN:
Hart, Frederick Watson
DIED:
Marchand, Frank X. Z.

522

ROSTER.

ROS-fER.

CAVITE LODGE, No. 350.

•Whitcomb,· Berton, P. M.
Wilcomb, Owen Victor
Wood, Rasco Conklin
Winkler, Charles Augustus
Wilson, Frank

Cavite, Philippine Islands.
Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:.

William E. Wichman, Master,
Edgar W. Snell, Senior Deacon,
Valdemar L. Holmgren, Sen. War., Charles B. Smith, Junior Deacon,
Harry J. Braman, Junior Warden, John V. S. Breson, Marshal,
Camillus J. Taliaferro, Treasurer,
Marvin Wesley, Steward,
John O'Connell, Secretary,
Merton J. La Vanway, Steward,
Arthur M. Whitton, Chaplain,
Alfred Woodruff, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adamson, Thomas
Anderson, John
Bathke, Max Frederick
Beers, Benjamin Franklin
Bellinger, James Warren
Berg, Ludwig M.
Borgers, Albert Bernard
Braman, Harry Johnson
Breson, John Viggo Signald
Bruce, Louis Edgar
Burns, Edward
Carnahan, Joseph Henry
Clapp, Leander Austin
Coyne, James Matthew
Delaune, Henry Joseph.
Dilks, Isaac Charles
Douglas, James Robert
Ely, Clyde Baldwin
Ericson, Julian Clarence
Fedak, Albert Louis
Folger, Lester Mitchell
Hamilton, Ralza Benjamin
Hawkes, Edward Joseph
Henrichsen, Oscar Gustav
Holmgren, Valdemar Louis
Jorgensen, Alfred Kristian
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Kirby, Robert Pleasant
Lewis, Frank
Lindberg, Alfred John

Losh, Albert Richard
Muller, Hermann
Nielsen, Martin Niels K.
Norwood, Frank Mattjson
Nygaard, Carston
O'Connell, John
Olin, Louis . ·
Olsen, Valdemar
Perry, Frank Wi!liam
Pierce, James Louis
Pray, George Alden
Purmcker, Fritz Charles
Rinehart, Archibald
Sainsbury, Joseph Edward
Schoon, Peter John Christian
Shaw, James Russel
Smith, Charles Bruce
Smith, Jesse Charles
Snell, Edgar Wright
Swan, John
Svenesen, ·John
Thornberry, Risher W.
Treutlein, Peter
Utz, Joseph William
Vassie, David Barclay
Valmas, Emanuel, P. M.
Vau1than, Reuben Vance
Walker, James E.
Warburton, Charles Edgar
Whitton,- Arthur Mervyn

•

523

Weichman, William Eugelbertus
Winson, William Alden
Woodmff, Alfred
Woods, Paul
-69
WITHDRAWN:

Anderson, Gustavus
Heilignstein, George
Benton, Frederick Leslie
Marshall, Harvy E.
Blackburn, Joseph
Miller, Walter George
Couch, Maurice Douglas
Miller, James William
Foster, William Ragsdale
McClure, Herbert James
Gay, Harrold
Newman, Harry Thompson
Hayhurst, Charles Frederick
Echlegel, William Frederick
Thormahlen, Matthias A.
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Prideaux, William Downing
DIED:
Eckstrom, John

PALESTINE LODGE, No. 351.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Joseph McDonald, Master, Joseph F. Chambers, Senior Deacon,
Samuel Henry Gowen, Sen. Warden, Otto F. Reinen, Junior Deacon,
Walter Francis Haas, Jun. Warden, Solomon Blum, Marshal,
Charles William Evans, Treasurer, Isaac C. Gordan, Steward,
Elmer Ellsworth Bradley, Secretary, Charles H. Waggoner, Steward,
Samuel Wakeling, Chaplain,
Jacob E. Goetz, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Black, Frederick Rufus
Alger, Duncan
Blott, William Leander
Adamson, Lewis Frederick
Blum, Solomon
Allen, Ethan Ray
Bosserman, David Wernick, P. M.
Atkinson, Johnson
Bradley, Elmer Ellsworth
Baskerville, Charles Albert
Bryant, William Franklin
Bell, James William
Califan, Ferdinand
Brown, Frederick Henry
Cary, Charles Albert
Brown, William Lundy, P. M.
Chambers, Joseph Fleischman
Best, William Newton

524
Civille, Leroy Henry, P. M.
Clark, Ashford Woodward
Clark, Walter Henry
Cook, Charles Henry
Cooper, Frank Scarles
Comm, William Thompson
COx, Jasper
Crisber, Lewis Allen
Cunningham, Robert
Dickey, Arthur Meod
Downie, Emerson James
Earle, Charles Henry
Easton, Ernest Eugene
Eddy, George Sigel
Eddy, Joseph Roderick
Ehlers, Peter William
Evans, Charles William
Faust, Mahlon Ellsworth
Flammer, Paul Ernest
Fondersmith, Addes Henry
Foster, Edward Ware
Fox, Willard Henry
Freeman, David Oliver
Fretz, Edwin Henry
Fullerton, George Herbert
Garrett, Frank
Goetz, Jacob Edward
Gordan, Isaac Carl
Gowen, Samuel Henry
Greene, George Simona
Haas, Walter Francis
Hamerlund, John Peter Nelson
Hancock, Walter Edward
Harrington, Fred Jennings
Haughton, Albert Scott
Havil, Fred H.
Heard, Isaac Stephen
Henck, Ellery Longshore
Henderson, Andrew
Horne, William Anthony
Inman, William Charles
Jepson, John Augustus
Johnson, Alfred B.
Johnson, Charles
Johnson, Swan Peter

.

ROSTER.
Jordan, Zachariah Thomas
Judd, Marvin DeLoa
Jurdon, Albert Leonard
Kelly, Charles Leonard
Kelpatrick, Aaron Edward
Kenip, Robert Walter
.Kirkpatrick, George Bertram
Knesel, John George
Kornblum, Morris Samuel
Kreider, Samuel Leander
Leighton, William Henry
Meara, Benjamin Franklin
McCabe, Henry Debasco, P. M.
McConnell, Otis Levy
McDonald, Daniel Joseph
McDonald, Frank Virgil
McDonald, Thomas Joseph
McDonald, Walter James
McDonaugh, Sidney Roy
McKinnie, Frederick Campbell
McNeal, Thoe. Andrew, P. M.
McNeely, William Thayer
Mendell, George Herkimer
Miller, Arthur Edward
Miller, Edmund Alexander
Millsap, Edmund Moise
Millsap, Sylvester
Nathan, Morris
Neel, John Henry
Negley, Adelbert Miles
Nelson, William Reseniaua
Nickols, George Swanson
Overell, Walter Edward
Partridge, Harvey
Patterson, George Robe.rt
Pennington, Norman Augustus
Peterson, Louis Nathaniel
Power, Charles Ora
Raymaker, William Arnold
Reed, Burt Warren
Rehme, Charles Frederick
Reinen, Otto Frank
Rich, Levi D.
Richards, Charles Albert
Richards, John

ROSTER.

•

Th~m, ~ewel Watson
Thomas, Ernest G.
Thompson, Frank Slusher
Tinklepaugh, Ray Deoerne
Tracy, Charles Clifton
Tracy, James William
Tuttle, Robert Payson
Tyler, Martin Rich
Waggoner, Charles Henry
Wakeling, Samuel
Waterman, Collins Palmer
Watkins, Albert Berline
Welsh, Clifford Durham
Wheeler, Arthur James, P. M.
Willits, Charles Nelson
Winter, Albert Charles
Wolf, Christian
Womersley, George Frederick
Wood, William Bell, P. M.
Woodworth, Theo. Whitingham
Wride, Frank George
Zimmerman, Joseph E.
-152

Roberta, Richard Gorony
Rollins, Fred Aaron
Ruaaill, Henry Davis
Ruston, Ernest Samuel
Sams, Peter W.
Samuel, Frederick David
. Scullin, Harry Robbins
Selph, Edgar Eugene, P. M.
Sherer, Robert
Sherman, Samuel Wesley
Sledd, Warner Alfred, P. M.
Smith, John Clayton
Sonderegger, Arthur L .
Stead, James Robert
Stevens, Joseph
Stevens, Mark
Strong, Herbert Vincent
Strouse, Louis Alva
Strunk, Joel Bertram
Sumption, Frederick Albert
Suter, John
Thacker, Frank L.

WITHDRAWN:
Sexton, James Brownell
Shorten, Albert

Hughes, Joseph Robert
Pageeler, John Charles

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Lyell, Julian H.
EXPELLED:
"Lindsey, Robert Andrew
DIED:
Adamson, Robert Newell

525

Ansell, Jake Lewis
Horine, Henry Clay

•Degrees conforrad during the yp,ar.

526

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

SUNSET LODGE, No. 352.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Henry Bridges, Master,
Charles Henry Miller, Senior Deacon.
Ralph Arthur Chase, Senior Warden, Edwin Morrill Williams, Jun. Dencotz,
Louis Murdock, Junior Warden,
Ambrose Harvey Armstrong, Mai·.,
Eugene Leonard Titus, Treasurer, Edward Lewis Farmer Steward
Elliott Stacy Rogers, Secretary,
Dale Owen Peet, Stew~rd,
'
John Martin Schaefle, Chaplain,
John Francis Lacroix, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, James Edwin, P. M.
Anderson, William Henry Brett
Armstrong, Ambrose Harvey
Armstrong, John Z.
Ballard, Earl Blakeley
Barclay, Henry Augustus .
Barrow, Thomas Martin
Beauchamp, Hiram Frederick
Blair, Luther Reed
Brasher, Horace Clyde
Brasher, Russell John
Brasher, William Floyd
Bridges, Charles Henry
Bridges, Charles William
Bridges, George Horton
Brock, Edward Ivory
Bruflat, Martin
Burgess, Frederick W:,illiam
Burke, Samuel Edgerton, P. M.
Burrows, Robert Hughston
Carter, James Thomas
Chamberlain, John Joseph
Chase, Ralph Arthur
Chesworth, John Edward
Chesworth, Joseph Re~nald
Clark, John Beaver, P. M.
Clatworthy, William E.
Colby, William Wall ace
Coles, Edward Augustus
Conlee, Monroe Harold
Conkling, James L.

Cook, Milo Rowland
Crouch, George Andrew
Deeble, William Davie
De La Matyr, Nathan Henry
Dobson, Elisha Robert
Duncan, George Nolan
Eccles, Cloudy Morning
Eitelgoerg.e, William Frederick
Eley, James Thomas
Farmer, Edward Lewis
Fechtig, John Freanor
Ferguson, Mark Simpson
Fiske, William Kingston
Franken, Robert
Frick, Moses Light
Frost, Howard
Frost, William Joseph
Garver, William Merrell
Gilmor, John Park
Guthrie, Robert Allen
Gray, Samuel
Gregory, George W.
Hanson, Gotfred
Hatch, William Kinersley
Haynes, Elmer Eugene
Henderson, William
Herendeen, Wesley Eugene
Hillman, Delmar Orrin
Hodges, Jonathan
Howard, Horace Emory
liubner, William Fred

•

Hunt, James Edwin
Iles, Harry
James, William Perry
Jensen, Henry Christian
Johnson, Henry Samuel
Johnson, John Dedrick
Jones, Richard Gordon
,Jordon, Learnler Richard
Kelley, William Pliney
Kelsey, James Henry, P. M.
Kelsey, Ralph Henry
Kirkby, Mark
Kirkpatrick, John Reid
Lacroix, John Francis
Lagre, Knute
Larrigo, George
Leighton, Luther W.
Lynde, George William
Macdonald, James Enon
McDonald, Fred Stephen
McLaughlin, William F.
McLeod, John Munro
Mercer, Edgar
Miller, Charles Henry
Morris, Charles Hensley S.
Mort, Albert Cliffton
Murdock, Louis
Musser, Roy Robert
. Nelson, Charles Oscar
Osmun, Sidgewick Ziba, P. M.
Osmun, Silas Cook, P. M.
Peet, Dale Owen
Peet, Daniel Ario

Howell, Clarence Walter

Pierce, Frederick Eugene
Rhodes, John Albert
Riley, Daniel Pike
Rogers, Elliott ·Stacy
Rommel, Samuel Edward
Rose, Henry Howard
Ross, Percy Wallace
Rudell, Charles August
Sawyer, Edmund Ogden
Schaefle, John Martin
Shag, Hugh Gill
Siemer, Henry
Singer, John
Smith, Cyrus Donald
Snyder, Aaron
Sook, Julius Frederick
Spangler, David Etherington
Stegemeier, Charles Frederick
Stokes, Robert
Sutherland, David Munroe, P. M.
Swayer, Edmund Ogden, Jr.
Thomas, Orsen Theo.
Tilden, William Frederick
Titus, Eugene Leonard
Trail, .Tilhn Willliam
Troxd, Enoch Aaron
Upp, George B.
Von Weber, George
Walker, Henry
Walters, Reuben
Whitice, Robert Doll
Williams, Edwin Morrill

WITHDRAWN:
Scholfield, Rerbert

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Christopher, James Henry

Blakwell, Thomas

52i

DIED:
Johnston, William Murray
Winton, Paul

-127

528

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

PINOLE LODGE, No. 353.

PRESIDIO LODGE, No. 354.

Pinole, Contra Costa County.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Andrew Jackson Hamilton, Master, Abraham Greenfield, Senior Deacoft,
Joseph Valley Enloe, Sen. Warden, Walter Hunt Jackson, Jun. Deacon,
Theodore Scott Catlett, Jun. Ward., Brainard Wyman Stevens, Marshal,
John Alexander Fraser, Treasurer, Niels Swenson Engelbret, Steward,
John Charles F. Hall, Secretary,
James Thomas McDee, Steward,
William Berry McKenzie, Chaplain, Andrew John Swenson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Bacon, William Thomas
Barrett, John Peter
Bermingham, John, Jr.
Bleuler, Emil
Boysen, Henry
Brandt, Frederick John
Carr, Edward Moon
Catlett, Theo. Scott
Chaquette, Ephram Charles
Cooper, Clinton Clifford
Cummings, Claud Allen
Daniels, Frederick Hugo
Davies, Thomas
Donaldson, Mason W.
Downer, Edward M.
Downing, Fred Parsons
Ellerhorst, Christopher
Engel, Otto Herman
Enloe, Joseph Valley
Evans, Levi
Fraser, George Whittier
Fraser, John Alexander
Garland, Fred Augustin
Graham, George Jarvas
Greenfield, Abraham, P. M.
Hall, John Charles Fremont, P. M.
Hamilton, Andrew Jackson
Hamson, William
Hitch, Abraham
Holiday, Charles Hiram

Horne, George
Jackson, Walter Hunt
Kemline, Ludwig
Lehman, Max
Lehmkhul, Chas. F. Christian
Lumaden, William John
Mann, William Hodgson
Marx, Joseph Sidney
McCullough, Henry
McDee, James Thomas
McDonald, Frederick
McDonald, Ralph Ernest
McKenzie, William Berry, ~· M.
McKinley, Samuel Stuart
Mendelsohn, Philip N.
Murphey, Raymond Cornelius
N ewneld, Joseph
Paterson, John Chalmers, P. M.
Pfeiffer, George
Pfeifer, William Jennings
Prentice, William Judson
Robison, Edward.Wade, P. M.
Ruff, Carl Frederick
Southworth, Eugene Edward
Stevens, Brainard Wyman
Swenson, Andrew John
Thode, Rudolph Nicolas
Towns, John Warren
Vanprooyori, Cornelius
Viano, Bernarto
--60

529

OFFICERS:

Herman Locks, 1.faster,
Anton Emil Schuhmann, Sen. Dea.,
Wm. Albert Sherman, Sen. Warden, Frank Ringo Jackson, Junior Deacon,
John Burke Glennie, Junior Warden, Herman Appleton Coggins, Marshal,
Andrew Jackson Vining, Treasurer, Clarence Maxwell Cheney, Steward,
Benjamin Loring Hesseltine, Secty., Carl Frederick Ernst, Steward,
Frank Mason Jackson, Chaplain,
Frank George Watson, Tyler.
Allen, George William
Altvater, Wm. Frederick ..
Ames, George Wesley
Andornetti, Paul
Baker, Thomas Leonard
Baker, Wood Carson
Barker, Henry
Batcher, John Henry
Bemmerer, Henry August
Blanchard, Cortland J.
Boivin, Louis Edmond, P. M.
Bonick, William Hood
Bowes, Alfred
Boxton, George Wynell
Boyd, John Houston, P •. M.
Butterworth, John Barlow
Caler, Frederick Edward
Campana, Pietro Sebastian
Campbell, Archibald
Cheney, Clarence Maxwell
Childs, Benjamin Neely
Cobb, George Douglas
Coggins, Herman Appleton
· Coggins, Raymond Bbynton
Cooke, George Warren
Cooley, Aaron Riley
Denke, August Reinhold
Denke, Edmund Herman
Dillon, Charles Monoe r
Dittman, Frank
Dye, Marcus Brutus
Emerson, George Waldo
3!

MEMBERS:
Engle, Walter J.
Ericsson, Joseph Edward
Ernst, Carl Frederick
Estes, William Edward
Fischbeck, ·Jules Minckle
Fisher, Charles Douglas
Fleischer, Ernest Custer
Fuson, Amandus Ulysses
Gallagher, Hugh Patrick
Gallagher, Joseph
Gaskill, Varney William, P. M.
Gibbs, Harry Throckmorton
Glennie, John Burke
Gomersal, Fergus
Graham, George
Greenwell, James Oliver
Grier, Robert Arthur, P. M.
Gwinn, William Madison
Hardy, Frederick Alden
Harwood, Albert Oliver
Haslehurst, Oscar Alvinza
Hearn, William Daniel
Helgesen, Nelson Rodvelt
Helms, George Leo
Herbst, A.
Hesseltine, Benjamin Loring
Hilbert, Frederick Henry
Hobro, Alfred Watson
Hobro, William Dovey, Jr.
Homburg, Martin Julius
Hubbard,· John Minkel
Ingermann, Albert Lewis

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

530
Jackson, Frank Mason, P. M.
Jackson, Frank Ringo
Jacobsen, Christian Theo. Fred.
.Tohnson, Thomas Arthur
Keator, Robert Stone
Kelly, George Francis
Kelly, Francis Patrick
Kelly, John Harold
Kipp, Joseph Henry
Kipp, Matthew E.
Knight, Carlton R.
Knight, Orman Hampton
Knowles, Ned Lewis
Kock, Walter Valentine
Krogar, Charles Frederick
Kroger, Frederick Claus
Kreft, Henry
Lauterback, Edmund
Leonard, John Vaughan
Leu, Matthias Adolph J.
Lowis, Chester Owen
Locks, Herman
Long, Charles Henry
Marsh, Alonzo Ralph
Mason, Arthur Calvin
Mason, Frank
Mason, Paul William
Miller, George Herman
Mills, Frank Henry
Milton, Louis Bernhard
Mitchell, Charles Burton
Mohr, Rudolph
.Morcom, Fred Nicholas
Morrice, Thomas Brown
Moyle, James William
Mullender, David Fraser
McKevitt, Hugh King
·McKevitt, Thomas Eugene
Nelson, Cnarles A.
Obradovich, Nicholas
Payne, Clyde Sylvenus

HOLLYWOOD LODGE, No. 355.

Plagemann, Walter Otto · Henry
Prechtel, George Philipp
Reed, Warren Stedman
Rice, Albert Everett
Richards, David·
Sandy, George Howard
Schroder, Henry Andrew
Schuhmann, Anton Emil
Schuhmann, August Max
Sedgley, Harry Timothy
Seeburger, Herman J.
Sherman, William Albert
Smith, Francis Gilbert
Smith, Frank Edward
Smith, Walter Egerton
·Starling, Kndrew John
Strand, William Francis
Strohmeier, Otto
Thomas, Alvin J.
Thomason, Frank
Tidell, Andrew Gustaf, Jr.
Tomasini, Henry Elvezio
Toye, William Osbourne
Trailer, Lewis Clinton
Trezise, John Samuel
Trull, Charles Bert
Ulrich, John Alvin
Utterback, Charles Norman
Vaughan, William Weaver
Vining, Andrew Jackson
Walker, George Henry, Jr.
Ward, Charles Henry
Watson; Frank George, P. M .
Watson, Kenneth
Weitzenberg, Wm. Fred. Joseph
Wetzel, Theodore, Jr.
Wetzel, Theodore, Sr.
White, George Philip
Wilkinson, Eli. J.
Williams, Ralph E.

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
King, Henry Arthur
DIED:
Harris, Thomas Henry

531

Hollywood, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Edwar-d Winterer, Senior Deacon,
George Lingo, 1Haster,
Charles Edward Boag, Sen. Warden, Herman Louis Baake, Junior Deacon,
Fred Vincent Denne, Marshal,
Robert Young, lut1ior Warden,
Frank Sheridan Hoover, Steward,
John Eugene Law, Treasurer,
Frank Webster Hauce, Steward,
Henry White Whipple, Secretary,
William Vickers, Tyler.
Theodore Heinig, Chaplain,

-145

'

MEMBERS:
Ferry, Louis
Fox, Edwin William
Gardner, Alan
Glass, Clement Studebaker
Glass, Edwin Marshall
Grass, Joseph Fernand
Gregg, L. W.
Hampton, Ellis Clark
Hanna, George
Harper, Benjamin William
Harrett, Edwin
Hauce, Frank W ebster
Heinig, Theo., P. M.
Holman, Paul
Hoover, Frank Sheridan
Howell, Clarence Walter
Howland, Frederic Charles
Jackman, Florie B.
Jackson, Joseph Addison
Jackson, W alte.r Arnold
Jepson,. Jacob
K ennedy, Benjamin Edward
Kincaid, James Leslie
Koehler, Chas. Frederick, P. MLau, John Eugene
Letts, Arthur
Lingo, George
Marvin, Otto A.
McMillan, John
Mead, William
Melcher, Howard Wash. ·

Allen, Russell, Joseph
Aldritt, John Allen
Anderson, Charles
Baake, Herman Louis
Blette, Edward Henry
Bynon, Frederick Silas, P. M.
Boag, Charles Edward
Boehncke, George
Boyle, Calvin Alcinous
Boyle, William Machneer
Barnes, George Henry
Bartels, Arnold
Barter, Henry Jamee
Berry, Bennett Burrett
Beynon, Llewellyn James
Chamberlain, James B.
Clark, Herbert F.
Cook, James Todd
Crissey, Charles A.
Davidson, Anstruther
Day, John Pinkney, P. M.
Denne, Fred Vincent ·
Dirke, Fred G.
Douglass, Frank M.
Dunlap, George Howard
Dunscomb, Jay Luther
Edwards, Benjamin Clarence
Elliott, Edwin Windsor
Extey, Fred George
Exton, George Tory
.Ferry, Francis Charles, P. M.

532

ROSTER.

Mercer, Levi Long
Merkley, Harry Samuel
Miller, Edward William
Miller, Louis D.
Milner, Robert Virgin
Monson, Olaf
Moore, Ola
Pog_son, Robert M.
Palmer, Edwin Obadiah
Pierce, Charles Merritt
Price, Veazey
. Pursell, William Fox
Raven, Fred Joseph
Rich, Sanford
Rodenhouse, Harry Edward
Snodgrass, Walter F.
Soules, Charles Henry
Spalding, William Brockhurst

Spear, Charles Nathan
Starlie, Rudolph R.
Stephens, Albert Lee
Stevenson, Gilbert Field, P. M.
Thompson, Percy W.
Townsend, William Henry
Valdez, Alexander Avaline
Vickroy, Hugh Kennedy
Wakeman, E. B.
Weddington, Fred Rutledge
Whipple, Henry White
Whitley, Hobart Johnston
Wickerson, Harry Douglass
Winnett, Percy Glenn
Winterer, Edward
Young, Mose
Young, Robert
"-97

WITHDRAWN:
Kanouse, Theodore Dwight

Willits, Robert Leander

MILL VALLEY LODGE, No. 356.
Mill Valley, Marin County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Thomas Travis Greaves, Master,
Kent Jarvis C. Seymour, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Gordon Selwood, Sen. Warden, George Hillary Harlan, Jun. Deacon,
· Alonzo Coffin, Junior Warden,
Horace Coffin Marshal
Lorenzo Rich Cofer, ;'reasurer,
Clinton Falge~, Steward,
Charles Jacob Brockhoff, Secretary, George Henderson Cook, Steward,
George Maxwell, Cha.plain,
George Archibald Urquhart, Tyler.

ROSTER.
Crumpton, Hezekiah John
Demmer, Mathew
de Sella, Leo
Doherty, Earle Leeper
Eisen, Edward George
Farr"ar, Walter William
Findley, Frank Beatty
Finn, Charles Chamberlain
Fleming, Willard Stephe11.
Folger, Clinton
Garcia, Manuel Rodgers
Greaves, Thomas Travis
Grindley, William Cecil
Harlan, George Hillary .
Hayes, Daniel Edward
Haynes, Charles Lyman
Higgins, Frederick Ernest
Hunt, George Elliott
Jackson, Ernest Wedgwood
Janes, Louis Lyman,. P. M.
Johnson, _Harry Lee
Klyce, Harvey Asbury, P. M.
Lange, Mathias
Linsley, Frederick Douglas
Lockwood, Frank Edgar
Losh, Francis Adams
Mackenzie, Charles Fyfe
Makin, Robert Ross
Miller, Allyn John
Morrow, William Grant
Newlands, James, Jr., P. M.
Nichols, Ezeri R.
Norris, John Floyd
Parcell, Charles Erskine
Parcell, Charles Henry

MEMBERS:
Ankers, George
Becker, Christopher Henry
Becker, Philip Sheridan
Beirao, Manuel Peireira, Jr.
Bostwick, Frank Fiske
Brockho:ff, Charles Jacob
Burt, .John
Burt, Samud Murdoch, P. M.

Bush, Alfred William
Citppelmann, Oscar Cornelius
Chase, James VPrnon
Cofer, Lorenzo Rich
Coffin, Alonzo
Coffin, Horace
Cook, George Henderson
Cox, Walter

*Hawes, George Percy, Jr.

533

Peters, Charles Henry Fred.
Pritchard, Alfred Henry
Pryor, Joseph Henry
Pryor, Percy Church
Regan, Henry
Ritchie, William Lloyd
Rudebeck, George Maurice
Runyon, Charles Francis
Runyon, Frederick Fra11cis
Schlingman, John Fred
Belwood, William Gordon
Seymour, Kent Jarvis Chase
Shaw, Frederic Grant
Shaw, John Edward
Staples, Melvin
Stevens, Harry Osborn
Stocker, Charles Ellis
St. John, Chauncey Milton
Stubergh, Otto Henry
Thomas, William Edward
Thomas, William James
Treat, Archibald Jennings
Urquhart, George Archibald
Urquhart, George Archibald, Jr.
Waid, Roy Culver
Wall, Charles Joseph
Watters, Thomas Sydney
Westcott, Harry Blake
Wetherell, Charles Elton
"Whitcomb, Bonner
White, Burchard Cole
Williams, Robert Barker
Wilson, Robert.,\ rchie
Wray, Alban Ernest
Yost, Nicholas Peter
-86

WITHDRAWN:
Howitt, Henry

• Affiliated during the year.

•

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

534

BUENA PARK LODGE, No. 357.

GOLDEN STATE LODGE, No. 358.

Buena Park, Orange County.

Los Angeles, Los Angeles County:

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated M eetings, first Friday in each month.

535

OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Simeon 0. Walker, Master,
Ralph H. Morgan, Senior Deacon,
James E . Milliken, S enior Warden, John Kellenberger, Junior Deacon,
Merton C. Cawthon, Junior Warden, A. S. Feagan, Marshal,
James H. Whitaker, Treasurer,
Samuel W . Little, Steward,
John S. Perry, S er:retary,
William E . Tice, Steward,
Charles L. Damron, Chaplain,
Samuel Huff; Tyler.

John George Morley, Master,
Heber H. Balderston, Senior Deacon
Albert Edgar Wright, Sen. Warden, Henry Wm. Bohrman, Junior Deacon:
Benj. Franklin Kierulff, Jr., J. W., John Colville Brown, Marshal,
James Irving, Treasurer,
Robert Butcher, Steward,
Wm. Hendricks Ledgerwood, Secty., Harry Eugene Betz, Steward,
Jonathan C. Duncan, Chaplain,
Adolph J. Maas, Tyler .

•

.

MEMBERS:

MEMBERS:
Angell, Edgar Edward, P. M.
Bennett, Arthur Leslie
Cady, Eugene Caldwell, P. M.
Cawthon, Merton Chesley
Cook, Justin Browning
Corbin, Oliver Lee
Damron, Charles Lee
Dutton, George Eli
Gilmore, William Duncan
Hall, Jesse Clark
Hasson, David William, P. M.
Huff, Samuel
Kellenberger, John, Jr.
Kennedy, Charles Sumner
Landell, Gilbert Stuart
Lawrence, Howard Chester
Little, Samuel William
Macdonald, John Alexander
Mann, Charles Homer
Mann, Robert Carlos
McAllep, William Reed
McGuire, Thomas

Martin, Herbert

McKenney, Joseph Wilson
Miller, George Barter
Milliken, James Emmanuel
Morgan, Ralph Herbert
Osborn, Maurice Nelson
Pechstein, William Bruno
Perry, John Sargent, P. M.
Perry, Oliver Hazard
Potter, William Gibbons
Sailor, Richard Allen
Sanford, William Alfred
Schantz, Mathew
Smith, Sidney Charles
Taylor, William Saunders
Tice, William Edges
Tweed, ·George Hume
Walker, Simeon Oglesby, P. M.
Warren, Henry Elias
Whitaker, George Andrew
Whitaker, James Henry, P. M.
White, Charles Edward
Winters, Samuel Durbin
--44
DIED:
Rundall, John Thomas

Anderson, Charles George
Anderson, James Madison
Ashley, Chester Carlisle
Ashton, Philip
Badham, Willard Edmund
Balderstoir, Heber Hamilton
Bannister, Alfred William
Barkley, (,heater Mathias
Bathey, Herbert Theodore
Bean, John Hill, P. M.
Benford, George Arthur
Berry, Nathan
Betz, Harry Eugene
Bohrman, Henry William
Bowen, William Miller
Bozarth, Charles Walter
Brill, Frederic Wultze
Brockett, Clarence William
Broadhead, Thomas Harvey
Brown, John Colville
Brown, Robert Edward Lee
Butcher, Robert
.Callender, Clarence William
Campbell, Otis Augustis
Cherington, William Stacher
Christin, Emile John
Conoway, Othello Parker
Copenhaver, Robert Carter
Couser, William
Creswell, Frank W.
Cummins, Francis Marion

Cunningham, George
DeForest, William Heath
Dinsmore, Joseph Henry
Dixon, Willis Milnor
Dolton, Louis Algernon
Dolton, Schuyler Arthur
Doyle, John Hurst
Dukeman, Frank Clayton
Duncan, Jonathan Columbus
Edwards, Godfrey
Fish, Charles Winthrop
Frackelton, William Burnside
Franklin, James Edward
Franklin, Reuben Henry
Frost, Fred Rufus
Gardner, Raymond Albion
Garn, Peter W., P. M.
Gaud, Richard Hamilton
Gertz, Peter William
Gilbert, William Henry
Gloege, Edward Frederick
Gray, Jacob L.
Griffin, Oliver George
Hamer, Joseph W.
Hamill) Edgar Samuel
Haupt, Robert Samuel
Heath, Charles Rhodes
Heath, Robert L ee
Henderson, Harvey Milton
·Hinton, Thomas
•
Holbrook, Leroy Heber

536

Howell, Robert Paine
Hutchinson, William Edward
Rydell, .John Baptist
Irving, .Tames
Isaacs, William Henry
.Tanssen, .Tulius
.Tones, Fred Hooker
.Tones, .John Leland, P. M.
.Tord.e r, Frederick
Kanouse, Theodore Dwight
Kelch, .Taeo b
Kierulff, Benj. Franklin, .Tr.
Koerting, Oscar Paul
Krause, .Julius Webster
La Dow, Charles
Ledgerwood, Newton Green
Ledgerwood, William Hendricks
Levy, Solomon
Locke, Edmund
Lowman, Charles Oscar
Lyon, Frederick Saxton
Marsh, Willis Charles, P. M.
Martin, .Tames Edward
Martin, Richard William
Mattel, .Joseph .Jason
MeBirney, Alexander
McKenzie, Samuel .Jerome
Melius, Frank Hancock
Mellus; Grover Blair .r.
Mellus, Louis Randolph
Merrill, Albert Eugene
Miller, George William
Moore, Newton
Morgan, Thomas Elisha.
Morley, .John George
Morrison, George Denton
Norton, Frank Lathey
Oldershaw, Frank Henry D.
Parker, Herbert Raymond
Parker, Lucius Clark
Peckham, William Mason
Penzer, .John Charles
Perry, William Franklin
Plisehke, Frede:rjek William
Purdy, .John Henry

ROSTER.
Raney, .Joseph Francis
Rawson, Guy Allison P.
Reading, Robert Edward
Reed, George Houston
Requa, Clarence .Tames
Requa, Herbert Davis
Richmann, Emil Frederick
Risk, .Joseph
Riv.e rall, Elfegio
Ro herds, Frederick Ottie
Roeder, Henry
Roseburg, Samuel Robert
Rosenberg, Samuel
Rothgeb, .Tames Frank
Sanborn, Benjamin Franklin
Sayre, .John Scott
Schneider, Frederick William
Schneider, George Henry
Schneider, William Theodore
Schweitzer, Charles George
Schweitzer, Ernest .John
Sellers, Oscar
Shellhorn, Arthur Lemon
Sherer, Albert .Tames
Smith, Richard Robertson
Snavely, Archibald Clinton
Sobieski, .Tohn
Spears, Barton Walter
Stevens, Frank Alfred
Strickler, .John Henry
Sutch, Wendall Hamilton
Tedford, George Walter, P. M.
Tenbrook, George Henry
Test, Elwood Allen
Thies, Charles Louis
Tierman, Albert
Vosburgh, George Herman
Wagner, Robert Garfield
Walker, Walter
Wheelock, Raymond Patterson
Whyte, William .Tames
Wilde, Charles L.
Williams, William Henry
Wing, William Allen
Winn, Albert

ROSTER.
Wood, Thomas, .Tr.
Wright, Albert Edgar

Winters, Harry Lewis
Woelz, Leonard Charles
Wood, Arthur Pearce

Dixon, Charles Edward
Lipe, Columbus .Joshua

537

-157
WITHDRAWN:
Peterson, .Tulian Ing&rsoll
Tilden, Byron Timothy

SUSPENDED FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DUES:
Slobohm, George Melvin
DIED:
Hutton, Charles Edward

Fish, William Campbell

LOY ALTON LODGE, No. 359.
Loyalton, Sierra County.
Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Richard Asa Huyck, Master,
Geo. Harvey Hampson, Sen. Deacon,
Adolph Robert Walthers, Sen. War., Charles Schleef, Junior Deacon,
Jessie Hunter Penney, Jun. Warden, Michael Thomas Becker, Marshal,
William 0. Peck, Treasurer,
Frank Benson Sparks, Steward,
Benjamin Franklin Hoover, Secty., Isaac Pearson, Steward,
Isaac Weston, Chaplain,
John Alford Gustafson, Tyler.

I

Arnold, George Ezra
Beadner, Edward .John
Becker, Michael Thomas
Black, George Thomas
Coats, Winston Decatur, P. M.
Conklin, Louis William
Counter, Charles Reuben
Enseoe, .Joseph Robert
Goodwin, Harry Nettles
Gustafson, .Tohn Alford
Henderson, Robert Leon
Hopkins, Oliver Garrett
Huyck, Richard Asa
Hoover, Benjamin Franklin
Lewis, Horace Edmund

MEMBERS:
Lewis, Richard Hiram
Millar, .Tames .John Orimbah, P. M.
Mcintyre, .John
Pearson, Isaac
Peek, William Ottway
Penney, .Jesse Hunter
Robinson, Henry Harrison
Sehleef, Charles
Schroeder, Marion
Smith, .John X.
Sparks, Frank Beeson
Sparks, .Joseph Beeson
Thompson, Peter .Julian
Thorne, Robert William
Thorne, William Davis

538

ROSTER.

Walsh, Frank Denton
Walthers, Adolph Robert
Watson, Isaac
Wheeler, Brent Marshall

ROSTER.

Wilson, John Everett
Worn, George Ross
Wren, John Samuel

-37

WITHDRAWN:
Rulison, Charles James

SAN FRANCISCO LODGE, No. 360.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Jesse Claude Perry, Master,
Alfred Daniel La Motte, Sen. Deacon,
Harry Edward DeLasaux, Sr. War., William Walter Willis, Jun. Dearo11,
Stephens Isaac Simmons, Jun. War., Arthur Woodley Baker, Marshal,
Lewis Emmet Sawyer, Treasurer,
Arthur Sidney Young, Steward,
Charles Seymour Sherman, Secty., William Edward Hague, Steward,
Matthew Thomas Wilson, Chaplain, Walter Brotherton Herndon, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Ade, George William
Aitken, John R., P. M.
Anderson, Archibald Andrew
Anderson, Axel Ferdinand
Anderson, George Murdock
Auld, John Davidson
Axman, Rudolph
Baker, Arthur Woodly
Baker, George Washington
Baker, Warren Garfield
Barden, Charles, Jr.
Bass, Thomas
Batkin, Norton Thomas
Bell, George Rutledge
Benham, Joseph Marshall
Benjamin, Elmer Hopkins
Bennett, Henry Charles
Biggerstaff, Eugene Knight
Billings, Homer A.
Bliss, Porter Lincoln
Brace, Herbert Edward
Bray, Walter Garfield

Bruckman, Robert R. Conrad
Chamberlain, Newell Day
Chisholm, Alfred Arthur
Cross, William Wood
Crozier, Alfred Bernard
Crozier, Harry Perryman
Cushing, .Stephen Russell
De Lasaux, Harry Edward
Dement, Richard Henry
De Meyer, Gabriel Henry
Denroche, CharleR Percy
Dillon, James Root
Dillon, John Francis
Dodge, Frank Lewis
Doig, James
Dunn, Edgar H.
Dutcher, Forrest LeGrand
Epler, Samuel Edgar
Folger, Roy Sinnott
Fowler, Herbert Franklin
Gates, Merville Elwood
Glissman, Pearlie Randolph

Goe, Clarence George
Grim, Lucullus K.
Racket, Thomas Ophir
Hague, William Edwad
Haller, Emile Lucas
Hammersmith, Louis
Hanna, Rea
Hansen, Oscar Herman
Heim, Herman Marcus
Hendry, Charles Stewart
Hendry, William
Herndon, Walter Brotherton
Herrington, William Merced
Hinton, Russell
Hoin, Theodore Stone
Holloway, Howard Stanley
Huffman, Edwin Towne
Jarvis, Thompson Pearson
Johnson, Harry Sumner, P. M.
Johnson, Willillfl- Cleas
Kirkpatrick, George Edward
Krueger, Henry Jacobus
Laist, Otto, Jr.
La Motte, Alfred Daniel
Lane, Warren Cox
Laumeister, Anton
Lindsay, Francis
Lindsay, Ulyses Graiit
Linz, Fred john
Lipowitz, Maximilian, P. M.
Loveland, Harvey Davis, P. M.
Macurda, Arthur Amsden
Martin, Benjamin Risdon
McDonald, Frank William
Mcintyre, Eugene Blake
Mery, Jacob Laurence
Miles, Harry Judson
Miller, Eugene
Miller, Otis Locke
Moll, Francis Oliver
Moore, Francis Joseph
Moore, Robert Isaac
Morgenstern, Alfred William
Moulthrop, John Robert
Munroe, Louis Francis

.Munroe, Thomas Anderson
Myland, George
Nelson, Arthur Julius
Nelson, William Christian
Newell, Ralph Gerard
Norton, John Francis
Oakes, Charles Wesley
O'Neill, Hugh
Pabst, Rudolph Ambrose
Peck, Mordecai Alonzo
Pelletier, John Francis
Pence, Orlando Edward
Perry, Jesse Claude
Peters, Charles Richard
Prost, Herbert Greiveldinger
Ramsay, John Domingos
Rasmussen, Edwin Otto
Rassette, Samuel Joseph
Rebard, John Emil, Jr.
Rennie, Zenas Crane
Reynolds, Francis Edward
Rice, Basil Warner
Richardson, William Joseph
Rowling, William Henry
Russell, Samuel Wilson
Sanborn, Harvey Hackett
Sawyer, Lewis Emmett
Scharowsky, Hans Albert
Scheilein, John Paul
Sherman, Charles Seymour
Shields, Hugh Francis
Sickles, George Lewis
Simmons, Stephens Isaac
Simpson, Arthur Pierce
Slye, Joseph
Spohn, John Henry
Stern, Henry Stuart
Stevens, Harry Clay
'Ialbot, William Henry
Terrill, George Clark
Trimble, James Felix
Tucker, Alber John
Van Bergen, Harry
Van Nest, Gamaliel C.
Veale, Almer Fletcher

539

540

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

Verdellit, Victor Leon
Walworth, Charles Harper
Waters, Barclay
Watters, George Franklin
Webster, Stanley

Whan, William Weir
Williamson, John Colonel William
Willis, William Walter
Wilson, Matthew Thomas, P. M.
Young, Arthur Sidney
-144

WITHDRAWN:
Ames, Donald Sinclair
Rogers,· Guy
Callender, Monroe Nathan
Rouse, Frederick Edwin
Loveland, Harvey A.
Saville, Harry Darius
McEwen, Daniel Hudson
Sunder, Frank C.
Trusson, Alfred William
DIED:
P:fltzner, Johannes

Lowell, Andrew Jac.ii:son
Lowell, John Walter
Lowry, William Scott
Lyman, Arthur Stephen
Macrum, John Wilson
Mathews, Charles William
McCallum, John Alex.
McCornack, Edwin Roy
McCornack, William Andrew, P. M.
Mero, Charles William
Milliken, Horace Fremont
0 'Connor, Edward Jam es
Olson, Gudmund
Peirsol, James Kastor
Pringle, Douglas Lindsay
Schmitz, Charles
Schow, Henry Curtis

541

Seaholm, Otto Henning
Shafsky, Abraham Henry
Shafsty, Samuel
Stillings, George Hutchinson
Switzer, Albert James
Tregoning, Henry Stewart
Tullis, Edward
Ward, William· Burchard
Weller, Charles Russell
Weller, Guy Vary
Weller, Horace Aaron, Jr.
Weller, Horace Alanson, Sr.
Weller, John Elwyn, P . M.
White, Fred Cyrus
Woodruff, Chester
Wright, Charles Edgar
Zerbe, Samuel John
-62

FORT BRAGG LODGE, No. 361.
Fort Bragg, Mendocino County.

CHARITY LODGE, No. 362.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Campbell, Santa Clara County.

OFFICERS:
Abraham Henry Shafsky, Jfaster,
Otto Henning Seoholm, Sen. Deacon,
Berny Alex. Lendrum, Sen. Warden, Charles Russell Weller, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Fremont Fuller, Jun. Warden, Charles William Mero Marshal
Herman Robert Baum, Treasurer,
Horace Alanson Well;r, Stewa;d,
George Golden, Secretary,
William Henry Dixon, Steward,
William Buchard Ward, Chaplain, Henry Augustus Doidge, Tyler.

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

MEMBERS:
Albert, David Lowell
Duffey, Fred
Baum, Herman Robert
Fee, George Henry
Beckman, Oswald Heribut, P. M.
Foye, Henry Malcolm
Bouton, Edward Fillmore
Fntzsche, Carl August
Brown, Edward Evans
Fuller, William Fred 'k Horace
Carlisle, Ira Herbert
Gilliam, William Andrew
Cavanagh, Charles Joseph
Golden, George
Cullen, John WinchP.ll
Higgins, Walter Francis
Dixon, Edward William
Holmes, Harry
Dixon, William Henry
Huggins, Eri
Doidge, Henry Augustus
Jones, William Gaston
Dorwin, Frank Romeo Canfield
Leiser, Leo.
Duffey, Albert Edward
.Lendrum, Berney Alex.
Duffey, Andrew Dallis
Lord, Alfred Austin

OFFICERS:

Fleury K. Bartholomew, Master,
Lewis Dan Bohnett, Senior Deacon,
Pope Catlin Hartman, Senior Ward., Chauncey H. Whitman, Jun. Dea.
George S. Robson, Junior Warden, George Whitney, Marshal,
John Fellows Duncan, Treasurer,
Curtis Brown Miracle, Steward,
William Beattie, Steward,
James Fablinger, Secretary,
Stillman A. Moulton, Chaplain,
Charles Townsend, Tyler.
Ainsley, John Colpitts
Bartholomew, Fleury K .
Beattie, William
Betts, Barney
Bohnett, Lewis Dan
Cornell, Jesse James, P. M.
Duncan, John Fellows
Fablinger, James
Farrington, Perry Francis
Fore, Daniel, P. M.
Galbraith, Nathan Buchanan
Greene, James Adelbert

MEMBERS:
Griffith, William Butler
Hanson, George Warren
Hartman, Pope Catlin
Helliesen, Charles Frederick A.
Hutchins, Samuel
Johnson, Andrew Lytgow
Keesling, Homer Grant
Lewis Edward W.
Merrill, Alex Pomroy, P. M.
Miner, Welty Daniel
Miracle, Curtis Brown
Moulton, Stillman Augustus

542'

ROSTER.

Parker, Charles L., P. M.
Parso, George Lewis
Peterson, John Edvart
Powers, Edward Augustus
Righter, Francis Marion, P. M.
Robertson, Lance Scott
Robson, George Stokild
Schmitt; Jean Emmanuel

ROSTER.

Townsend, Amos Brown
Townsend, Charles
Tuttle, Thomas Jefferson
Wade, Sylvanus Raynor, P. M.
Wakeman, Edward James
Waite, Demmon Weston
Whitman, Chauncey Hira
Whitney, George
--40

WITHDRAWN:
Bennett, Orra Leroy

BERKELEY LODGE, No. 363.
Berkeley, Alameda County.
Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Julian Juriah Benton, Master,
Edwin Charles Arnold, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Angelo McKelvey, Sr. War., Albert Jay Walker, Junior Deacon,
Harry Dayton Kelsey, Jun. Warden, Charles Grant Bailey, Marshal,
Robert Browne Baird, Treasurer;
Charles Henry Benton, Steward,
David Fowler Jones, Secretary,
Guy Robe,-.tson Stewart, Steward,
John Tower Morrison, Chaplain, William Riley Stamper, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Adams, Leonard Oliver
Andrews, William Samuel
Annis, Jerome Walter
Arnold, Edwin Charles
Bailey, Charles Grant
Bailey, Lewis Newton
Bailey, Lyman Clopp
Baird, Robert ·Browne
Barnes, Henry S.
Baxter, George Perkins
Bayly, David Harry
Beecher, Hc-nry Ward
Beedle, Elbert Ellsworth
Behm, Augustus Clair
Benton, Charles Henry
Benton, Julian Juriah
Biglow, John Edwin
Bradhoff, Peter Francis

Brothers, Walter Edgar
Brown, Charles Leslie
Burchett, George Letchford
. Burden, William E.
Butler, Robert
Butterfield, Fred Louis
Church, Allen
Coe, Herbert Milton
Cohn, Jacob Isaac
Cole, Charles Martin
Congdon, Merton Joseph
Crackbon, Charles Lemuel
Craig, David
Craig, Harry Sherwood
Davis, James Randal, P. M.
Demerritt, Hayden Lewis
Driver, John Rush
Dudley, William Christopher

'

Egleston, John Valentine
Elliott, George Alexander M.
Ellis, Eben Bethnel
Emerson, Ralph Wal do
Everett, George Linus
Ey, George Phillip
}~urlong, Herbert William F.
Gage, Benjamin FrankHn
Gillihan, Allen Francis
Godwin, James Madison
Gray, Frank Sidney
Griffith, Hanford Berry
Grigg, Harry Herbert
Hager, Adolph John
Hall, Charles Ambrose
Hanford, John Raymond
Heywood, Walter Minturn
Hill, James Faulkner, P. M.
Hodge, James
Holt, William Henry
Hugill, Elbert Abram
Hutton, John Adams Duglas
Irwin, Horace Dunn
Jackson, Arthur Vincent
Jaggard, Belmont Perry
Jenkins, Joel Harry
Jones, David Fowler
Jones, Harry Oliver
Johnson, Edward
Johnson, Frederick Woodward
Johnson, Samuel Woodward
Juster, Cyril Cecil
Kaiser, William Harry
Kelsey, Harry Dayton
La Baree, William H.
Lawton, Frank Houteling
Loriµg, Ernest Linwood
Macdonald, Hershel Holt
McClain, Frank Walter
McClintic, John
McCoy, Charles Henry
McKelvey, Charles Angelo
McKeown, Arthur
McLauren, Jay Lucullus
Meder, Walter John

Merrilees, John M.
Morrison, John Tower, P. M.
Morse, Newell Obadiah
Mortimer, Walter John
Mueller, Fred Albert
Needham, Paul Arnold
N ~son, Hans Peter
Nelson, Louis Levy
Nichols, William, Jr.
Nielsen, Neils Jensen
Nielsen, Nicholai Lauritz, Jr.
Ochiltree, Gilbert Brydon, P. M.
O'REilly, Garrett
Otis, George Fredron
Ott, August Louis
Owens, William Evan
Ozouf, Henri Eugene
Parsons, Albert Samuel, P. M.
Peck, John Thomas
Peck, Louis Stanley
Phillips, Henry Byron
Pratt, Edward Payson
Quackenb_ush, Simco Simeon
Ramsden, Charles Harold
Rankin, I van Sloan
Reed, George Edward
Reed, William Elwood
Reed, Richard Cecil
Reynolds, John Henry
Robison, James Leman, P. M.
Roslington, William
Sanger, ·Walter Max
Schaeffer, James Garfield
Schmidt, George
Schultz, Gustav Fred 'k Wilhelm
Schuster, Gustav Adolph
Sherman, Cornelius Augustus
Simonds, Charles G.
Sisson, George Henry
Slater, George Rhodes
Smith, Dwight Timothy
Sorensen, Hans Rudolph Nicolai
Sorensen, Otto Valdemar
Spear, Charles Henry
Spear, Charles Morton

543

544

ROSTER.

Spinks, Charles Henderson
Turner, Thomas
Staats, Redmond Cyril
Underwood, Byron Edward
Stamper, William Riley
Verrue, Harry Randal
Starke, Eric Alex.
Vickers, Austin Lot
Stevenson, Herbert Barrows
Walker, Albert Jay
Stevenson, Thomas Edward
Whitworth, George Frederick
Stewart, Guy Robertson
Witte, Gustav Adolph
Strom, Carl August
Woods, William Fowler
Thies, John
Woolsey, Frank Reeve
Trueblood, George Linebarger
Young, John William
Turner, Edward Quale
-149
WITHDRAWN:
Hendricks, William Henry
Lamb, Frank Henry
McKinney, Samuel Pease
EXPELLED:
Swain, Hershel V. J.

McNulty, Lester Clay

ROSTER.

545

Hoag, George AleL
Rickman, Edgar Conrad
Jacobs, Henry Frederick
Samson, William Herbert, P. M.
Kenney, Marcus Endorus
Smith, Alex.
Kent, Nelson Gilman
Thompson, Lewis Hartwell
Kincaid, Samuel Wilson, P. M.
Thompson, Rowland Maynard
Lukens, Ernest Paul
Waite, Frederick Warren
Maynard, John Baptist
Walker, James
Mcilroy, John James
Walker, William
.Moffitt, Isaac Frank, P. M.
Watkinson, Alfred
Newton, Ferry John
Wheeler, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Nichols, William J.
Wilson, Elias McCarty
Woodson, Warren Nicholas
Remick, Henry Clay
Rice, Napoleon D.
--41
WITHDRAWN:
Bliss, Nathan Leonard
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Woodland, Charles Masters
Brown, Herbert C.

DIED:
Parsons, Chester Martin

WILLITS LODGE, No. 365.
Willits, Mendocino County.

OLIVET LODGE, No. 364.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next pre·ceding Full Moon.

Corning, Tehama County.

OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, third Tuesday in each month.

Geo. Washington Richardson, Mas., James Alfred Joyce, Senior Deacon,
Allen Davidson, Senior Warden,
Duane Bittenbender, Junior Deacon,
Charles Edgar Palmer, Jun. Warden, James Edward Daniels, Marshal,
Charles Alonzo Irvine, Treasurer, Frederick Newhall Loring, Stewa,rd,
George Youde, Secretary,
Geo. Washington Crawley, Steward,
Owen Dunlap, Tyler.

OFFICERS:
Edward Frederick Conway, Master, \Villiam Dale, Senior Deacon,
Richard Bacot Fripp, Sen. )farden, Humboldt August Blanck, Jr. Deacon,
George Alex. Hoag, Junior Warden, Alexander Smith, Marshal,
Warren Nicholas Woodson, Treas., James Walker, Steward,
Isaac Frank Moffitt, Secretary,
Napoleon D. Rice, Steward,
William Henry Darden, Chaplain,. Andrew Jackson Wheeler, Tyler.
Albertson, Frank Blakeley
Blanck, Humboldt A.
Busey, Allen A.
Case, Edgar Elroy
Case, Elias Payne, P. M.
Case, Mason Nutting, P. M.
Cockcroft, John·
Conway, Edward Frederick

MEMBERS:
Dale, William
Darden, William Henry
De Motte, Marshall
Fatt, Frederick Helling
Foster, Charles Frederick
Foster, Robert Albert
Fripp, Richard Bacot
Harper, Hiram Augustus

Auten, Leroy Kendall
Bilodeau, Louis
Bittenbender, Duane
Blodgett, Walter LeRoy, P. M.
Branscomb, James Henry
Campbell, Alexander John
Coleman, James Owen
Crawley, George Washington
Crossfield, Francis Marion
Daniels, James Edward
Davidson, Allen
35

MEMBERS:
Disher, George William
Dunlap, Orren
Edwards, William Richard Jones
Eggerts, Herbert George
Fairbanks, Augustus John
Foster, William Anderson Scott
Hart, Henry Herbert
Hensley, Henry Livingston
Irvine, Charles Alonzo
Jp.yce, James Alfred, P. M.
Le Bars, Joseph

546

ROSTER.

Martin, John Wesley
McPeak, Eugene
Muir, Henry Baker
Palmer, Charles Edgar
Perry, Frank ·F ielding
Petrie, Alex. Hays
Rice, William Isaac
Richardson, George Washington
Riffe, Abraham Thomas
Roach, Lew Jackson
Roach, Robert Emmet

Rowe, Horace Doolittle
Saxon, William Thomas
Selfridge, Edward August
Smart, David, P. M.
Smart, George Arthur
Smith, Abinadi Jefferson·
Thompson, Arthur Harlow
WalkerJ Herbert Edward
White, Gaston David
Woelffel, George August
Youde, George

ROSTER.

--44'

WITHDRAWN:
Burton, Alfred Conwell

LAS PALMAS LODGE, No. 366.
Fresn2, Fresno County.
Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Herbert Z. Austin, Master,
Jame:s Wiley Smith, Senior Deacon,
Wm. Angus Sutherland, Sen. War., Ralph Roscoe Aten, Junior Deacon,
William R. Price, Junior Warden, Joseph Philip Bernhard, Marshal,
Charles Sheldon Pierce, Treasurer, George Pickford, Steward,
George Grover Murray, Secretary, John Franklin Coffman, Steward,
Duncan Wallace, Chaplain,
Charles Ed~ard Stewart, Tyler.
Allardt, Hugo Frederick
Allison, Duncan Donald, P. M.
Ambrose, Wiley D.
Anderson, John Quincy
Archibald, Lambert Lewis
Asbury, Frank Herbert
Aten, Ra:tph Roscoe
Austin, Herpert Z.
Austin, John Reubin
Austin, Mark Edmond
Baker, Raymond Waldo
Balch, Albert Eugene
Barbour, Henry Ella.worth
Barrack, Guy
Bernhard, George Henry

MEMBERS:
Bernhard, Joseph Phillip, P. M.
Beveridge, James Young
Braverman, Alfred
Buker, Humphrey Oscar
Burgess, John Edward
Casner, Edward Rufus
Cearley, Charles Talent
Chappell, Walter Lee, P. M.
Cherry, George Washington
Chittenden, Charles William
Chittenden, Robert D.
Clark, Albert Bazzle, P. M.
Coffman, John Franklin
Cowan, Angus Bertram
Craycroft, Harry Judge

,

Davidson, William, P. M.
Detoy, Louis
Dick,· William
Drew, AleL M.
Duvall, Joseph James
Eden, William Wallace
Everts, Alen Lee
Faris, George Atkinson
Fassett, Briceno Aanendez, P. M.
Fassett, Francis Ronello
Gibson, Louis Wills
Glass, Edward
Grove, Millard Paine
Hamilton, Creighton Everett
Hasselbalch, Andre Marion
Hayden, Thomas Morris
Heron, John Maxwell
Hickman, Frank
Hill, Calvin Sheok
Holland, Herschel Horace
Huffman, Milton Decatur
Hutchinson, John Hamilton
Johnson, Herbert Greary
Jones, John Simeon
Jones, ~land D.
Jorgensen, Christian
Kjaerbye, Claus Peter Hoyer
Kleebergn, Edward Adolphus
Lamkin, Burt B.
Leas, Speed Butler
Leavitt, Charles Carroll, Jr.
Lindsay, Elliott William, P. M.
Lingby, Louis
Loper, Albert M.
Ludvigsen, Peter Erick
Markley, Osborn Lincoln
Marshall, William Sylvester
Martin, Joseph Georg'3
McCardle, Charles M.
Miles, William Oscar
Miller, Frederick M·a rvin
Miner, Jesse Mayland
Mower, Eugene Adelbert
Munger, Albert Luke

5-17

Murphy, Leavis Andrew
Murray, George Grover
~iblock, Samuel William
Noble, Jay Preston
Norton, Paul Bruce
Perkins, Darius Enoch
Pickford, George
Pierce, Charles Sheldon
Platt, Sidney Lawrence
Pottle, James Cyrus, P. M.
Price, William R.
Primrose, Bert Anderson
Rohrer, William N ewton
Rowe, William
Ryan, Omar Wester
Sample, Thomas Nelson
Scholz, Oswald Sylvester
Shirri:fl', Charles LeBaron
Smitb, Erenst Nathaniel
Smith, Frank Messer
Smith, Frederick. Walter
Smith, James Wiley
Smith, Thomas Henry, P . M.
South, Francis Paln,ier
Stewart, Charles Edward
Sunderland, Alpheus Eugene
Sutherland, William Angus
Swift, Harvey Whalen
Telfer, Ralph Morris
Walden, Charles E.
Walden, Wesley McHenry
Walker, Benjamin Franklin
Wallace, Duncan
Walrond, Ernest Adolphus
Walter, Charles Lewis
Waterman, Edward Bentley
Weldon, Lut~er Edward
Wilkinson, John Howar1
Williams, William Rufus
Wishon, Albert Grave
Wright, John Elmer
Wyatt, Walter Frank
Youmans, John H .
-117

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

548-

Soper, Joseph Bebe
Taylor, B. Frank
Taylor, Charles Newton
Vatcher, Herbert James
·vatcher, Herbert James, Jr.

WITHDRAWN :
··Weldon, Lou Oliver

*Wheeler, Roswell Samuel
DIED:
tWhite,

Jame~

Riggs

549

Wachtell, John Valentine, Jr.
Waddingham, Albert Bascom
Williamson, George
Wilson, Charles William
· 1 ~3
#

WITHDRAWN:
. Smith, Sanford Stephen t.

SOUTH PASADENA LODGE, No. 367.
South Pasadena, Los Angeles County.

DIED:
Reid, Maurice Birclsil

Harter, Noble

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday ~n each month.

•

OFFICERS:

UNITY LODGE, No. 368.

Edward Everett Barden, Master,
Hartley Crawford Packer, Sr. Dea.,
John Wesley Shenk, Senior Warden, Frank Henry Phillips, Junior Deacon,
Charles Wm. Wilson, Jun. Warden, John Thomas Peed, Marshal,
Wm. Church Brainerd, Treasurer, William Lester Cox, Steward,
John Newell Hunt, Secretary,
George Wills Bishop, Steward,
George Adolphus Green, Chaplain, Alvin E. Pierson, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
•
Allyn, Calvin Ethan
Jones, Walker F. D.
Ailstin, Charles
Lewis, Boon
Axtman, William Francis
Longley, Anzelotto Leonell, P. M.
Barden, Edward Everett
Lowry, William Henry
Binder, George Lewis
Mackin, Frederick Blair
Bishop, George Wells
McCluer, James Henry
Brainerd, William Church
Menderson, Henry
Bush, George Clarence
Moffitt, Thomas
Carson, John Elmer
Moore, John W.
Casmire, John Jacob
Moore, Raymond Bayard
Cattern, Frank Addison
Packer, Hartley Crawford
Cox, William Les~er
Peed, John Thomas
Dodge, Jonathan Sherman
Phillips, Frank Henry
Ewing, Charles
Pierson, Alvin E.
Fishburn, Chalmer Good
Postle, Herman Richard
Fishburn, Claud Willard
Pridham, James Chaplin, P. M.
Garwood, Be»jamin Vernon, P. M. Pridham, Richard W oodsworth
Gifford, Thomas I.
Reid, La Verne Sanders
Green, George Adolphus
Rush, Edward Humphrey
Hawkins, Robert Edward
Seay, Robert Horsley
• Hunt, John Newell
Shank, Edmund Simpson
Jaco~s, John Carpenter
Shenk, John Wesley, Jr.
•Degrees conferred during the year.

t Affilia ted during the year.

Glendale, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Frank Ellsworth Albright, Master, Reuben Zinn Imler, Senior Deacon,
Daniel Campbell, Senior Warden,
Charles Wilber McFadden, Jun. Dea.,
Arthur Campbell, Junior Warden, Charles Frederick .Parker, Marshal,
Asa Vincent Fanset, Treasurer,
Alphonso Welker T ower, Steward,
Richard Clark Sternberg, Secretary, David Henry Imler, Steward,
Joseph Hamilton Henry, Chaplain, Jesse Sylvanis Stine, Tyler.

4

Albright, Frank Ellsworth
Andrews, ,Joshua Earnest
Ayers, Edgar Stewart
Ayers, Edward
Barnes, George Nuttman
Blain, William John
Borthick, Samuel Littleton
Bryant, Allen Lincoln
Budd, Henry Johnston
Bulkeley, Henry Loomis
Burk, Joseph James
Burt, Forney Edwin
Campbell, Arthur
Campbell, Daniel
Camp bell, Frank
Catlin, Charles William
Chandler, Alphonso Lafayette
Chandler, Moses Willard

MEMBERS:
Chandler, Willard Ruggles
Chase, Raymond Everett
Coker, Harry Perey
Collins, Albert William
Emery, Edward Ulysses
Fanset, Asa Vincent
Fischer, Charles Bruno
Fischer, Edward Albert
Fuller, Daniel Edward, P. M. ·
Grannell, Charles Aldon
· Griffith, Elijah
Hall, Henry Hamlen
Hartsaugh, Christopher William
Hobbs, John
.
ti .
Hunchberger, John Grabill
Imler, David Henry
Imler, Reuben Zinn
Larkey, George Emory

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

550
Logan, John Arthur
Logan, Oliver Cunningham
Lowe, Myron Rufua
Malcom, William
McFadden, Charles Wilber
Mcintyre, James Freeman
McPeak, John
McWhorter, Wilber Walter
Miller, George Thomas
Mills, William S.
Moore, St·e phen Walker
Morton, William Addiscm
Monroe, Lewis Allen
Morgan, Ernest J obn
Moyse, George ffiysses, P. M.
Ogden, Hiram
Overton, John Lewis
Palmer, Samuel James S.
Parker, Charles Frederick

Penn, William Thomas Prosser
Remsburgh, Melvin Zlora
Reynolds, Elbert Deville
Russell, Charles Edward
Schiek, Morris
Schltemer, August
Sternberg, Richard Clark
Stine, Jesse Sylvania
Story, Warren
Taylor, John Hartley
Thompson, William Alexander, P. M.
Thorne, William Buckingham
Tower, Alphonso Welker
Valentine, John Sherwood
Vesper, Frank H.
Webster, Joseph Henry
Weidenfeller, Charles
Woodberry, George Barker
Wright, Alfred
-74

OCEAN PARK LODGE, No. 369.
. Santa Monica, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, :first Tuesday in each month
OFFICERS:
Charles Seeley Thatcher, Master,
Daniel Webster Baker, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Hamilton Ritchie, Sen. Wa.r., Robert James Haney, Junior Deacon,
Frank Carver Wolff, Junior Warden, Thomas H. Hanna, Marshal,
Thomas M. Meldrum, Treasurer,
John. Walter Eads, Steward,
Charles Wm: Damerel, Secretary,
Leon Sanford Webster, Steward,
Charles A. Fanjoy, Chaplain,
Samuel M. Smith, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Anderson, William Henry
Baker, Daniel Webster
Bliss, John Dallett
Brooks, Louis Robinson
Bryon, Stephen Douglass
Burns, Charles YouJ).g
Dales, John Bertram, P. M.
Damerel, Charles William
Dodge, Charles P.
Donahue, Daniel

Eads, Walter John
Edinger, Ralph Garfield
Eville, Thomas Benjamin, Jr.
Fanjoy, Charles A.
Farris, William T.
Ferris, James Andrew
Field, Henry D.
Fraser, Alexander R.
Fraser, Earl Alexander, P. M.
Gage, Herbert Richmond

Garey, Stephen Thomas
Good, Henry Milton
Grant, Percy Morris
Grubb, Oscar Edwin
Haney, Robert James
Haskell, Wesley
Heimann, Richard
Hufi'; William T.
Johnson, David
Jones, George M.
Kelsey, Stephen Truman
Kiger, William H.
E:ing, Marvin R.
Koontz, Wilford C1!arles
Lavayea, Henry Eli
Lawton, Frank
Lovelace, Charles Edward
Makin, John
Meldrum, Thomas Miller
Mellen, Charles Henry
Meskimen, Charles E.
Miller, Harry
Moore, Alfred James
Morre, Herbert B.

Newlon, Peyton Griffith
Pittenger, H. C.
Rathbone, Charles Clary
Rit,chie, Charles Hamilton
Robinson, A. Edward
Rogers, Harry Ermon
Simmons, John Edison
Smith, Ollin E.
Smith, Samuel McCalmont
Smith, Thomas Galon
Stearns, Frank LeGrand
Steele, Murray Moore
'!'hatcher, Charles Seeley
Tomblin, Eugene S.
Van Ormon, John T.
Vawter, Edwin James
Wagar, Milo Harry
Walker; Frederick Ernest
Warner, Lorin Leroy
Webster, Alfred Francis
Webster, Leon Sanford
Wolff, Francis Garver
Woodward, John Ward
Young, Lee Harry

551

-68

WITHDRAWN:
Kayser, Alonzo

AMITY LODGE, No. 370.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Edward Stephenson, ll1aster,
Byron DeWitt McDonald, Sen. Dea.,
Frank Gustaf Johnson, Sen. Warden, Paul Frederick Schaffner, Jun. Dea.,
August Lewis Bett, Junior Warden, William Palmer Stanton, Marshal,
Fred Drew Ashworth, Treasurer,
Henry Charles Klevesahl, Steward,
Robert Johnston Loughery, Secty.,
Alfred Alvin Reed, Steward,
George J. Palmer, Tyler.

552

ROSTER.

MEMllERS·
Alberti, Lawrence Boyer
Lynam, Thomas James
Armstrong, Elbridge Robertson
Maclauchlan, Charles Raabe
Ashworth, Fred Drew
McCallum, Harold Howard
Augsburger, William Edward
MeCallum, John H.
Bass, James Gifford
McDonald, Byron DeWitt
Bittancourt, Thomas Marion
McDowell, William Andrew
Bohr, Rudolph Henry 0.
McPherson, John F.
Branford, Frank Giles
Mead, William Frederick
Bruchm.ann, Henry Emile
Meyer, Frederick William
Burgess, Chandler William
Millar, Robert Forrester
Cain, Richard, P. M.
Miller, John H.
Clark, Archer Brenton
Moller, William Daniel
Coles, Francis Alexander
Neil, Walter Scott
Conyers, Horace
Nelson, Andrew
Copping<'r, Clarence
Osthofl', Henry William
Crew, Charles Edward
Oughton, Oliver Henry
Curtis, William Bovey
Palmer, George J.
Daggett, Leander Bradley
Rau, Benjamin Franklin
Diaston, Arthur Dixon
Reed, Alfred Alvin
Douglas, James
Reid, George Ferguson
Douglas, Walter Renick
Reid, James Archibald
Eaton, Arthur John
Ra~mussen, John Charles
Easson, William Lawson
Rehn, George
Edwards, George
Rentschler, Fred J'ohn
Engle, Frank Thomas
Rude, Martin Hansen
Field, Joseph Clifford
Scamell, Arthur Ernest
Gillmore, William Solomon
Schubert, Charles Edward William
Glasson, Wm. Charles Worthington Schaffner, Paul Frederick
Herrick, Clarence Green
Schott, William John
Hidlberand, Frederick Jacob
Seagrave, Joseph
Hogberg, Henry
Shea, Charles Perine
Holcomb, Frank Herbert
Smith, Rudolph Adam
Hunt, Oscar Fred
Stahle, Charles August
Jennings, Enos Charles
Stahle, Harold John
Jensen, Olaf Martinez
Stanton, William Palmer
Johnson, Frank Gustaf
Stephenson, Edward
, Kennedy, Robert Vance
Stockmon, Ralph
Kidd, Elmore Allen
Taylor, Edward Tomlinson
Klevesahl, Henry Charles
Thompson, Riehard Hugh
Lee, James Douglas
Tomkins, Joseph George
Lemon, James Arthur
Trautvetter, Alexander Otto
Lillie, Clarence Belcher
Upham, Walter Fuller
Loughery, Robert Johnston, P. M.
Upham, Walter Sumner
Loveland, William Jay, P. M.
Waite, Alfred Napier

ROSTER.
Walker, Thomas Walter
Wallgren, Wilhelm Edward
Webster, David Frank
Wehe, Frederick Peter
Wigney, Benjamin Arthur

Williams, Enoch R.
Williams, William Jerome
Wood, William Daniel
Wood, William Everett
Zett, August Lewis

553

-·98

WITHDRAWN:
*McFarlane, Arthur Henry
SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Born, John Albert

OCEANIC LODGE, No. 371.
Honolulu, Hawaiian Territory.
Stated meetings, last Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Merle McNaughton Johnson, Master, Norman Stanley Fairweather, S. Dea.,
Ross Hamilton Bemrose, Sen. War., Francis Louis Hatch, Junior Deacon_.
John A. Palmer, Junior Warden,
John Christian Wagner, Marshal,
Carel Justine De Roo, Treasurer,
Alva Stewart Webber, Steward,
William Henry Goetz, Secretary,
James Ernest Morgan, Steward,
John Dickson Gaines, Chaplain,
Charles l!enry• Thurston, Tyler.

L

·'

Alexander, Charles Frederic
Andrews, George John
Armitage, Harry
Asbahr, Frank Louis
Atwood, Ozro Millard
Baldwin, Herman James
Bartlett, Charles Garfield
Bellina, Charles Henry
Bemrose, Ross Hamilton
Blom, ·John Albian
Bockus, Charles Gerald, P. M.
Boisse, Gaston John
Bon, Charles, P. M.
Bosson, Charles Lewis
Bowler, John Francis
Breckons, Robert Warren
Brown, Edgar Marion
• Dcgr00s conferred during the year.

MEMBERt=I:
Brown, Embert Morelli
Burke, Robert Emmett
Buckley, John
Campton, George, P. M.
Capilos, Demosthenes
Chillingworth, Charles F.
Collins, John Robert
Coney, John Hawks
Coulter, George Thomas
Crowley, David William
Culver, Warner Walter
Davis, David Henry
Davis, George Anthony
Dayton, Davis, P. M.
Dee, Lawerence Henry
Denison, Harry Norwood
DeRoo, Carel Justus

554

. Dillingham, Benjamin Franklin
Donnelly, William John
DuBose, Tascar Polk
Durant, Albert Allen
Eaton, William L.
Edlunds, Frank G.
Evans, John Richard
Fairweather, Norman Stanley
Farrington, Wallace Rider, P. M.
Gaines, John Dickson
Gartley, Alonzo Floyd
Goetz, William Henry, P. M.
Hartman, Ernest Edward
Hatch, Frank A.
Haughs, David Michell
Hayselden, Harald Thomas
Henry, William
Hilbus, James Francis
Hundley,' Samuel Napoleon
Hurtt, Allen Milton
Hutchins, Robert Jacob"
Johnson, Edmund
Johnson, Merle McNaughton
Johnson, Samuel
Johnson, William Paulo
Jessett, William
Jewett, John Darneal
Kenake, William Chaffe
Ketcheson, John A.
Lee, Charles White
Lutted, Oswald James
Mackenzie, James Harris
McAllister, John Walter
McDonald, Angus Paul
Menefoglio, Alfred
Merril, C. F.
Mills, Harry Thomas
Moore, Herbert Thompson
Morgan, James Ernest
Morris, Reade Harris L.
Musgrave, Charles Alfreil
Neeley, Arthur W.

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Neiman, Ernest Rudulph
Nickals, Philip
Norton, Benjamin Hale, P. M.
Nott, John
Pfeiffer, Charles Henry, P. M.
Piltz, George Henry
Pinkerton, Samuel
Palmer, John Aurelius
Perry, John M.
Pratt, Joseph George
Reinecke, Henry Herman MartiL
Rosenberg, Isidor
Sager, Isaac La Grange
Schutte, John
Schwarzberg, Elmer Louis
Simerson, Aaron Cook
Simpson, Harry
Smith, William Henry
Spencer, Joseph
Stephenson, George
Sturtevant, Charles Vale
Thurston, Charles Henry
TouBBaint, Louis Mathew
Towse, Ed., P. M.
Treadway, Harry Gorham
Turner, Archie Michel
W11-gner, John Christian
Waldron, Frederick
Ward, Livesey de Leyland, P. M.
Watson, John B.
Webber, Alva S.
West, Frederick B.
Watt, Henry Chorley
White, William George
Whitehead, Orlando John
Wilkinson, James William
Williams, Charles Edwin
Williams, James John
Winant, Elmer Terry
Wright, George Scott
Yount, Wilmer W.
-116

555

WITHDRAWN:
Smith, Charles
Winkler, Otto
Tom, Kelly

Harlan, Orlando H.
*Nicklas, Philip

SUSPENDED FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
DeGreany; Francis
Carlton, Carl
Langston, James Fry
Couzins, Harry de C.
McNichol, Gilbert
Dayton, David K.
Morton, William B.

•

DIED:
Bishop, Charles Herbert

GARDENA LODGE, No. 372.
Gardena, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, Tuesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Daniel N. Towne, Master,
Lowry H. West, Senior Warden,
Alonzo F. Hann, Junior Warden,
Mathis G. Rogers, Treasurer,
Newton E. Cowles, Secretary,
John D. Green, Chaplain,

)

l

Bathrick, James H.
Bathrick, William J.
Bergin, William J.
Biggart, Thomas
Bodger, John Charles
Bristow, Henry
Cowles, Newton E.
Davis, Carl R.
Day, John Warren
Dodge, Roy James
Ergmann, William
Fanning, Beri
Green, John D:
Green, William Henry
Hann, Orlando Francis
•Degrees conferred during the YP.Br.

Walter E. McCarroll, Sen. Deacon,
Lowry E. West, Junior Deacon,
Adam Bard Mohr, Marshal,
Walter W. Pitman, Steward,
William J. Bathrick, Steward,
James H. Bathrick, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Hudson, Richard Heroy
Klasgye, John W.
Lakey, Joseph Asbury
Longacre, James
Mattern, George Stewart
McCarroll, Walter Van
Michales, Adolph William
Micheal, George M.
Miller, Charles Frederiek
Olney, Edward West
Pitman, Thomas C.
Pitman, Walter Walton
Pitman, William
Roberts, William
Rogers, Mathis Gosett

556

ROSTER.

Simpson, Walter
Spencer, John Foster, P. M.
Stephenson, Christopher Ward
Stephineon, Christopher W.
Towne, Daniel N., P. M.

ROSTER.

Walters, Benjamin
West, Loury Earl
West, Loury Hay
Williams, Hugh E. ·

Jenkins, Robert ·
Keener, James P.
Kelly, Arthur
Laing, Robert Douglass
L ear, Peter R.
Lillie, Sylvester
Lutkins, Frank H .
Lounsberry, William
May, William Wallace
Mudge, Edwin Elmore
Muller, Albert Rudolf
.Murch, John Wesley
Murphy, Thomae
Myrick, Mack Harry
Nellis, Clarence Jones
Osborn, Joel Edgar
Peck, George William
Pierce, Ira
Pilgrine, Charles Mart

-39

WITHDRAWN:
Hamilton, Jamee W.
Lewie, John T. H.

Russell, Thomas B.
Willimson, Frederick B.
*Woolsey, Arthur S.

VETERAN LODGE, No. 373.
Sawtelle, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, third Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS:
Clarence Jones Nellis, Master,
William HMs, Senior Deacon,
Joel Edgar Osborn, Senior Warden, Robert Douglass Laing, Jun. Deacon,
Cyrus Lloyd Edinger, Jun. Warden, John Henry Pobbings, Marshal,
Ira Pierce, Treasurer,
Charles Henry Pendleton, Steward,
William Sharp Smith, Secretary,
Frank M. Wilson, Steward,
George Abram Conrey, Chaplain,
Frederick Diekely, Tyler.

Colbert, Patrick

• Affiliated during the year

Dille, George Abdial
Dobbinge, John Henry, P. M.
Driggs, Morgan
Dustin, Charles Lowell
Edinger, Cyrus Lloyd
Elliott, Mathew
.Flanery, David
Ford, Ira Beebe
Gilford, Andrew Jackson
Gill, Edmund Roy
Gill, George Ellerson
Gilmore, Hiram
Hass, William
Hasse, Herman E.
.
Heagy, Henry Washington
Howard, Charles
Hurlbut, Henry Alonzo

-72

DIED:
Smith, Andrew Jackson
Simmons, Samuel Benjamin

JEWEL LODGE, No. 374.

MEMBERS :
Arnold, Edwin M.
Axtell, Charles Henry
Baker, Luther J.
Bales, A. W.
Bartlett, Thomas Herbert
Bonnick, Henry John
Bottomfield, Sheridan
Bowerman, Nelson
Boyer, Eugene Franklin
Boyer, Leonard Bell
Burchard, James E.
Calhoun, Ezra
Carnegie, Archibald
Conkling, Frank E.
Conrey, George Abram
Costelloe, Peter
Deives, Elisha

Prichard, Martin Howard
Rice, Sumey Allen
Richardson, William
Rohda, August J.
Sagar, Thomae William
Shade, Marvin Robert
Sigman, Marcus H.
Smith, William Sharp
Sonneeyn, Peter Herman
St. John, Andrew A.
Ten Eyck, James Campbell
Wait, Dudley Monroe
Warren, James Riley
West, Robert Leslie
Wettstein, Andrew
Wheeler, William Daniel
Wilson, Charles August
Wilson, Frank M.
Yelton, William L.

557

San Fra.ncisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Arthur Byron Sanborn, Master,
Leo Bruck, Senior Deacon,
Samuel Omega Blodgett, Sen. War., Gerald Kenney, Junior Deacon,
Otto Bismark Romer, Jun. Warden, Charles Shaw True, Marshal,
John Jacob Mundweyler, Treasurer, John A rthur Snell, ~teward,
Robert Cummings Johnson, Secty., Arthur Douglas Davidson, Steward,
Hiram F. Wright, Tyler.

l

Anderson, Per Axel
Blodgett, Samuel Omega
Braendlein, John Conrad
Bruck, Leo
Butler, Andrew Joline
Cohn, Max

MEMBERS:
Cromwell, Burnside, P. M.
Davidson, Arthur Douglas
Delaney, William
Finley, William Hugh
Galloway, Wiley Kimball
-Gruenberg, Carl

558

ROSTER.

Hearn, Thomas Frederick
Heller, Hermann
J aulus, Bernat
Johnson, Robert Cummings, P. M.
Kenney, Gerald
Lachman, Jacob
Lachman, Louis
Lada, Edward B.
Langenberger, Charles H. F.
Lerond, George W eAton
Levin, Emanuel Monroe
Levin, Joseph
Levy, Louis
Levy, Mark Eugene, P. M.
Lindley, Paul Jay
Mahood, Cadmus J. W.
Marlatt, Augustus G.
Morey, Arthur Snow
Mundweyler, John Jacob

ROST EB..

N evina, W aahington
Newbauer, Julian Herman
Nolting, Edward A.·
Norcross, Frank Gilman
Reynolds, David L.
Romer, Otto Bismark
Rusk, William Gee
Sanborn, Arthur Byron
Schuhl, Sylvain
Simpson, Joseph Dodd
Snell, John Arthur
True, Charles Shaw
W a.Hing, Richard William
Wayman, Mark·
Wiley, Herbert
Williama, Ernest George
Winkley, Walter William
Wright, Dexter M.

Collins, Asa Weston
Comegys, Lloyd C.
Crane, Douglass Barnitz
Fairweather, John Hen"Q'
Faubel, John
Fischer, Ernest Louis
Foster, Jesse Clark T.
Fourness, Havelock
Freirmuth, Henry Hervey
Gillespie, George Graham
Glick, Henry
Goetting Charles Lawrence, P. M.
Hamilton, John Williams
Harrison, James E. D.
Hinds, Hiram Conlee
Isbell, George F.
Jessen, Christian t'rederick
Johnson, Shirley Wayman
Kennedy, Daniel. Webster
Kenny, William Rowland
Larsen, Louis Albert, P. M.
Lawrence, Stephen
Lawson, John Finlay
Levy, Sol Jacob
Liechti, Arnold W.
Longwill, John
Maddux, Parker Simmons
Mann, James Munroe
Mardis, Benjamin Allen
McLeod, Charles H.
McPhail, Roy Kenneth
Mehrtens, Louis
Momyer, Harry E., Jr.
Momyer, Henry Eastman
Morris, Robert

-40

RICHMOND LODGE, No. 375.
San Francisco, San Francisco County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

OFFICERS:
Douglas Barnitz Crane, Master,
George B. Waterman, Senior Deacon,
Chalmer C. Mtmday, Senior Warden, Walter E . Bidwell, Junior Deacon
Ernest Louis Fischer, Jun. Warden, Arthur W . Bennett, Marshal,
'
John Faubel, Treasurer,
George G. Gillespie, Steward,
Havelock Fourness, Secretary,
Luther Sanborn Stewa~d
William H. Standart, Chaplain,
William Burbeck, Tyler. '
MEMBERS:
Baptist, ,Joseph
Barth, August Herman
Baum, George S.
Bennett, Arthur William
Bidwell, Walter Edmund
Bielawski, Hugo Theodor
Bleily, Alban Centenial
Booyer, Percy Tyler
Bradley, Albert All~n
Bradley, Charles Clarence

Bransford, Edgar McDowell
Brownlee, John P.
Burbeck, Julius Lee
Burbeck, William
Burdick, William Albert
Burtchaell, John William
Caine, Albert Howland
Clark, Henry Augustus
Clark, William Arnett
Clarke, Benjamin Franklin

Morton, Robert Linceln
Munday, Chalmer C.
Nelson, Fernando
Nelson, William A.
Newburgh, Henry
Niemeyer, Harry Albert
Nystrom, Charles Alfred
Oldland, Thomas James
Phelps, Orlo
Pratt, John Haradep
Purdy, Frederic
Rothermd, Frederick Charles
Sanborn, Luther
Schofield, William Frederick
Shorb, Orren Edward
Sommer, Carl George
Standart, William Henry
Stevenson, Edwin John
Stewart, Joel Lemley
Stone, Leonard
Strange, Ralph Rae
Temple, Jame~ Howard
Thompson, John E.
Tichnor, Austin K.
Trefz, Adolph Gustav
Walker, Joshua
Wardell; Ju11tus S.
\Vaterman, George Burton
Wehe, Alfred Wood
Wholey, William N.
Wilson, Joseph Arthur
Young, Edward Livingston
Zfotich, Antone
Zobel, Alfred Jacob
Zobel, Jacob
-90
DIED:

Smith, Robert W.

(

55!)

ROSTER.
ROSTER.

5()0

561

·MEMBERS:

FRANCIS DRAKE LODGE, No. 376.

Ashleigh, Frank Dunette
Byng, Benjamin Francis
Carse, Levi
Courtney, Joseph Edwin
Courtney, Zeanus Maywood
Cox, Robert Matthew
Dalley, Rolland Evert
Dohn, Phillip C~rl
Frampton, Arthur Edwin
Frampton, Douglas Lighton
Frampton, George Reed, P. M.
Frampton, Walter Nelson
Felts, George Wesley
Gamble, Grant Elmer
Gamble, Guy Bennett
Gillespie, Edwin Grant

South San Francisco, San Mateo County.
Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jesse Oglevee. Snyder, Master,
Frank Edwards, Senior Deacon,
John James.McDonald, Sen. Warden, Frank C. Nunes, Junior Deacon,
Harry Eckford Styles, Jun. Warden, Arthur Coombes, Marshal,
George Wm. Holston, Treasurer,
Timothy Bresnan, Steward,
Fred Alonzo Cunningham} Secretary, Walter S. Money, Steward,
George F. McDonald, Chaplain,
Edward P. Kauffmann, Tyler.
Bresnan, Timothy
Brown, Ephraim Nixon
1.;oombes, Samuel Arthur
Cunningham, Fred Alonzo
Edwards, Frank Porter
Eschelback, Albert Joseph
Guerra, John
Holston, George William
Hoon, Malcom James
Hynding, Andrew
Kauffmann, Alfred E.
Kauffmann, Charles Louis
Kauffmann, Edward Philip
. Lawson, Edwin Richard
Ludermann, Adolph Fred

MEMBERS:
Martin, William James
McDonald, George._Franklin, P. M.
McDonald, John James
Money, Walter Sydney
Newberry, George Akin
Nunes, Frank C.
Patchell, Robert Kelso
Perham, George Lawrence
Plymire, David Brandly
Plymire, Harry Garretson
Smith, Du Ray
Snyder, Jesse Oglevee
Styles, Harry Eckford
Taylor, James

MIZPAH LODGE, No. 378.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.

ARTESIA LODGE, No. 377.

)

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Reed Frampton, Master,
Guy Bennett Gamble, Senior Deacon,
Fred Hiram Purdy, Senior Warden, Augustus S. Perrie, Junior Deacon,
Walter N. Frampton, Jun. Warden, Levi Carse, ~Marshal,
William Harvey Smith, Treasurer, Frank Logan Norton, Steward,
Jay Elisha Randall, Secretary,
William A. Sackett, Jr., Steward,
Myron Robert McKinney, Chaplain, Grant Elmer Gamble, Tyler.

-31

WITHDRAWN:
Hayes, William Bealey
Jolly, James R.
Hathaway, Dexter Chamberlin
White, William Ephraim

-29

Artesia, Los Angeles County.

Hurley, William Walter
McKinney, Myron Robert
Mills, John Benjamin
Morse, Fred Theo.
Norton, Frank Logan
Perrie, Augustus Sherman
Purdy, Fred Hiram
Randall, Jay Elisha
Sackett, William Alford
Sackett, William Alford, Jr.
Sackett, Joseph David
Sanderson, Andrew Jesse
Sewright, John
Smith, William Harvey
Whipple, Carl Howard

(

OFFICEBS:
James William Calder, Master,
Charles Edward Dixon, Sen. Deacon,
Michael Roy Raftery, Sen. Warden, Oliver Shephard Barnum, Jun. Dea ..
Bartholomew Marchese, Junior War., Frederick Augustus Holmes, Marshal,
John Kremer, Treasurer,
John Benjamin Merrill, Steward,
Ora Taylor, Secretary,
Joseph Raymond Thorpe, Steward,
Nathan Warren Zimmer, Chaplain, Adolph J. Maas, Tyler.
Altland, Edwin Neiman
Andrews, Fred L.
Babcock, William Wesley
Bateman, Harry Lindsay
Baker, Fred
Baker, Thomas G.
.
Barlow, George Frederick
Barnard, Albert William
36

MEMBERS:
Barnum, Oliver Shepard
Battr11m, Henry Samuel
Bowen, Albert John
Boyd, Am brose
Brooks, David
Butler, John Lynch
Calder, James William
Calder, Hugh Forrest

562

Caldwell, William Elliott H.
Carroll, Frank Daniel
Castleman, Casey Martin
Clark, Royal Francis
Colyear, Curtis Calhoun
Crocker, Rowland Harris
Desmond, William M.
Dixon, Charles Edward
Dodd, George Melville
Dolland, Edward
Donaghy, Frederick
Donaghy, George
Downe, Alexander Byers
Farmer, Robert Lorenzo
Fitch, Harry Jay M.
Frazier, Frank 0.
French, Thomas Fox
Gain, Oliver J.
Gates, George Washington
Gillespie, Richard Johnson
Goge, Max
Gordon, George Barr
Graham, Albert Edward
Graham, Alfred Henry
Graves, John Colburn
Graves, Wesley Richard
Green, Albert Price
Harmon, Lloyd William
Hathaway, Dexter Chamberlain
Haun, William Mars
Heaton, Walter St. Clair
Holmes, Frederick Augustus
Hubbell, William Henry
Hummel, William August
Hurt, Alfred Deavor
Ingramr William Marque
Irwin, Theodore John
Ivy, James L.
Jackson, Charles Franklin
Johnson, Peter E.
Jones, Charles Austin
Jones, Guy
Jones, Thomas Lewis
Kern, Joseph Edward
Kersey, Richard Wakefield

ROSTER.

ROSTER.
Kiener, Charles
Kittredge, Charles Heber F.
Kitzele, Henry Joseph
Kremer, John
Kriege, Herman Rudolf William
Lindsay, Joseph Brown
Lovie, Edward Burns
Maguire, James Harvey
Marchese, Bartholomew
Martin, John Henry
Mason, John A.
McClure, John
McStay, Carl Elmo
Mendelsoln, Manny Solomon
Merrill, John Benjamin
Miller, Daniel
Moffet, Alonzo Grey
Moses, Thomas William
Orr, Frank Leslie
Parsons, George Custer
Peterson, Julian Ingersoll
Powell, James Rice
. · Quaglino, John
Raftery, Michael Roy
Raftery, Thomas Albert
Redmond, Clement James
Richards, William Washington
Robb, Charles Miron
Roberts, William Nathaniel
Rothfuss, Christian Frederick
Sebastian, Charles Edward, P. M.
Schwerdtfeger, Julius
Shepard, Albert Lee
Sherrard, Edward Everett
Small, Fred Fulton
Snyder, Char lea Frank
Stair, Edward
Stelzride, John Williard
Stevens, Corwin Worth
Stutsman, Carl Allen
Taylor, John Roberts
Taylor, Ora
Taylor, Roland D.
Thorpe, Joseph Raymond
Tyrrell, Frank Gill

VanHorn, Martin Francis
Virgo, George Edward
Ward, Harry Wilfred
Watson, Ralph Mott
Weissert, Leopold Adolph
White, William Ephriam
Williams, Charles Wesley

56H

Williams, J. Frank
Williamson, Frederick B.
Winehester, Francis Orion
Wright, Arthur
Ziegler, Thoma~ Harry"
Zimmer, Nathan Warren

. -119

FILLMORE LODGE, No. 37g.
Fillmore, Ventura County.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Gilbert E. Webb, Master,
Ira Loomis Hinckley, Sen. Deacon, 1
John Powell Hinckley, Sen. Ward., Oscar Henry Welch, ltmior Deacori,
Boojamin Franklin Kenney, Jr. War., James Walker, Marshal, ·
·
Richard S-tephens, Treasurer,
Ch11rles H. Haines, Steward,
James N. Bowie, Secretary,
James F. Allee, Steward,
Robert Franklin Sallee, Tyler.

>

{

J

Allee, James Francis
Anderson, William Newton
Barnes, Louis Lee
Bower, Homer Andrew
Bowie, James Nathaniel
Burson, Edward Wright
Burson, George Washington
Burson, John William
Burson, Willis
Dorman, Eugene Earl
Fleet, Walter Hugh
Guiberson, Nathaniel Greene
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Grimes, John A.
Harthorn, Charles Whitney
Hinckley, Ira Loomis

MEMBERS:
Hinckley, John Powell
Kenney, Benjamin Franklin
Martin, Ira Benjamin
Maw, Norman Francis
Phillips, George
Riley, West
Sallee, Robert Fr'.lnklin
Stephens, .Ric~ard
Sutton, Edward Esington
Trotter, John P.
Walker, .James
Walker, .Jonatl!.an' Herbert
Webb, Gilbert Elisha, P. M.
Welch, Oscar Henry
Wileman, Thomas
'-31 I

ROSTER.

564

HUNTINGTON

BEACH LODGE, No.

R.OSTEB.

380.

MEMBERS:
Belt, Arthur Hugh
Manning, Joh11., P. M.
Davis, Ira Woodard
Martin, Isaac
Franklin, Will Cook
Morrison7 James Tho'mpson
Goldbaum, Simon
Nichols, Wm. Van =Derveer, P. M.
Griffes, Eugene Viele
Pittenger, Frederick William
Hall, Nathan
Rieke, Frederick.William
Harrington, Herbert E.
.' Rorick, David
Herman, ·Leopold Henry Penniman . Sharp, Joseph Lewis
Jones, Joseph
Torrance, John- Norcrog
Lane, George Addison
Tulip, Johil Albert
Mar~in, John Franklin
~21

Huntington Beach, Orange County.
Stated Meetings,_ first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS:
A~drew Wylie Griffith, Master,

James Richardson Jolly, Sen. Deacon,
George Arthur Shank, Sen. Warden, Charles Robert Nutt, Junior Deacrm,
Edward Hiram Darling, Jun. War., .. ..... .. . .. ..... . Marshal,
Foster E. Wilson, Treasurer,
Ralph Emery Graves, Steward,
Spencer L. Blodgef, Secretary,
.. ... ........ ..... ..... .... Steward,
William Kesemann, Tyler . .

WITHDRAWN:

MEMBERS:
Harrison, Frederick Earl
Blodget, Spencer Langdon, P. M.
Hoornbeck, Eugene
Corbett, George Albert
Huber, Orlando Henry, P. M.
Darling, Edward Hiram
Ingersoll, Cyrus Tweedy
Fi~her, Eugene Irving
Kesemann, William
Fowler, William ·
McDonald, John
Fox, Ernest M. ·
Miller, George M.
Gillespie,' Julius Milton
. Pollard, Herbert James
G11etz, John· Jacob
Shank, George Austin
Graff, George Roy
Trodd, Frederick
Graves, Ralph Emery
Van Ornam, Chester D .
Griffith, Andrew Wylie, P. M .
-24
Wilson, Foster' Ebenezer
Harman, Nathaniel Oscar

Shaul, Marion J.

HIGHLAND PARK LODGE, No. '382.
Los Angeles, Los Angeles County.
Stated Meetings, second Thursday in eaeh month •
OFFICERS:
Charles Elliot Carver, Master,
Jolrn : Henry Train, Senior Deacon,
Fred. Ezekiel Vincent; Sen. Warden, ~obert He.Dry Gray, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Russell Morehouse, Jun. War., I-iar.oJd· Fraser Weller, Marshal,
John Alexander Donnell, Treasurer, John James ·BacJcus,.Steward,
Edward Difani, Secretary,
George Marshall Duntley, Steward,
Edward Houts Stagg, Chaplain,
Herman Charles.Mertens, Tyler.

WITHDRAWN:
Day, James Allen

OCEANSIDE LODGE, No. 38r.
"oceanside, San Diego County.

)

Sta.t ed ·Meetings, Monday of or next .preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:
William Van D. Nichols,·Master,
John Albert Tulip, Senior Deacon,
John Manning, Senior Warden,
James Thompson Morrison, Jr. Dea.,
John Franklin Martin, Jun. Warden, Eugene V. Griffers, Marshal,
Frederick Wm. Rieke, Treasurer,
George Addison Lane, Steward,
Arthur Hugh Belt, Secretary.
Herbert Eber Harrington, Steward,
Edwin Bruce Johansen, Tyler.

(

MEMBERS:
Allyne, Ernest Osborn
Duritley, George Marshall
Alionso, Herbert Denis
Difani, Edw:ard
Anderson, James Law
Donnell, Wiiliam Wendell
Blood, Willis Norton
Frederick, J~~es Shaw •
Bradford, Charles Raymond
Fellows, ·Thomas
Backus, John James
·Fink, 1Hydalias Cyprian
Blair, Paul Loughridge
Gray, Robert Henry
Band, Arthur Dalton
Good, Sidney ,:Vincent
Carver, Charles Elliott
Handcock, Phillip
Clark, William Alton
Howell, Ernest Frederick
Corbin, Walter Augustus
Hill, Benjamin ·Franklin
Cline, George Thomas
Hubbard, John Frost
Coles, Thomas Richard
Hubbard, Hubert Sylvester
Hrath, Charles Rhodes
Donnell, John Altxander, P. M.

1

ROS'rER.

ROSTER.

566
Jeffery, Elmore Robinson
Jones, Herbert Clinton
Kennedy, William Homer
Knox, Harry Clifton, P. M .
Ketehum, Marshall Bidwell
Koernei::, Paul Albert
Lock, George Ernest
Mo~ehouse, William Russell
Mertens, Herman Charles
MO'Ore, Alton Howard
Meyers, William Raymond, P . M.
Morrison, Andrew Jackson
:Musg_rove, John Joseph
McFee, William Hamilton
:McCrea, Thomas Pleasant!!
McCabe, James William
Noyes, Joseph Sibley
Nicolson, Alexander
Phipps, Edward
Price, William
Renfrew, Ontario John

Rice, George
RitQhey, Cyrus Isaac
Richards, Royal Francis
Renner, Andrew Jackson, P. M.
Stagg, Edward Houts
Stewart, Robert
Schulze, George William
Smith, Charles H. D.
Train, John Henry
Titus, Benjamin Greene
Thorne, Henry John, P. M.
Vincent, Fred Ezekiel
Van Ornum, Allen Fish
Wall, Arthur Augustus
Walter, Fred, Jr.
West, Leslie Melvin
Weller, Harold Fraser
Westbrook, Richard
Wigdal, Ole Johnson
Yates, Sherman
~9

OROSI LODGE, No. 383.
Orosi, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Charles Campbell, Master,
Franklin Leroy Blair, Senior Deacon.
Charles Addison Bump, Sen. Ward., James Henry Flack, Junior Deacon,
Frank Norwell Bump, Jr. Warden, Gustave Cahn, Marshal,
Addison. Joseph Bump, Treasurer, Raymond Daniel Martin, Steward,
Fred Wrigfit Conkey, Secretary,
Eugene Albert Conkey, Steward,
John Douglas Black, Chaplain,
Linzey Coleman Angel, Tyler.
'MEMBERS:
Campbell, Charles
Ang_el, Linzey Coleman
Conkey, Eugene Albert
Bump, Addison Joseph
Conkey, Fred Wright
Bump, Charles Addison
Feaster, William Alvis
Bump, Frank Norwell
Flack, James Henry
Biswell, George Washington
Hills, P. rthur Augustus
Black, John Douglas
Hills. Frederick William
BlackledgE', Lindley Ninde
Knott, Bruce
Cahn. Gustave

Kiggens, Elmer E.
'.Martin, Raymond Daniel
McLemore, Calvin Arthur
Morgan, Nelson Wesley
Reed,_John Rayson, P. M.

567

Redd, John Eaton
Starkey, Thomas Gideon
Trammel, George Foster
Wheeler, Austin Ellis ·

-25

EL CENTRO LODGE, No. 384.
El Centro, Imperial County.
Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Carlton Bars ton Brown, Master,
Herman Roiger Peterson, Sen. Dea.,
Walter Owen Hamilton, Sen. Ward., Wm. Vinton Baker, Junior Deacon,
Adolphus M. Shenk, Junior Warden, John Norton Marshal
Murray A. Storer, Treasurer,
Jesse Lee M~Guire s/eward
John B. Baker, Secretary,
M. Durward John~on, Stew~rtl,
George Hunter Reid, Chaplain,
William Pitts Hamilton, Tyler.
MEMBERS:
Baker, John Billingsley
McCary, Jasper
McCully, Earnest
Baker, William Vinton
McGuire, Jesse Lee
Brown, Carlton Barstow
Medhurst, Frederick Morel
Chaplin, David Hogue, P. M.
Morgan, Isaac Archie
Christopher, Thomas
Cooley, Lewis Edward
Norton, John
Pangborn, Edmund James W.
Copenhaver, David Denton
Dool, Edward
Peterson, Herman Holger
Potter, Lawrence Addison
Eckert, Adolph Falkar
Phillips, Peter Charles
Eckert, Carl Fredrich
Fromme, Ernest August William
Reed, George H.
Reid, George Hunter
Hamilton, Walter Owen
Shenk, Adolphus M.
Hamilton, William Pitts
Stover, Murray A.
Hart, Purdy
Vencill, Truman
Holman, Milton Palmer
Holt, William Franklin
Weber, Julius H.
Wade, George Royal
Hughes, Thomas Henry
Jenkins, Herbert Alonzo
Woolley, Lester J.
--37
Johnson, M. Durward

ROSTER.

568

ROSTER.

DINUBA LODGE, No. 385.
Aitken, Thomas Dickey
Barton, Eugene Martin
Blanchard, Rueben DeForest
Chandler, Myron Hall
Conn, Charles Centennial
Comfort, Newton C.
Cook, Edward
Enright, John Edwin
Fansler, Orville Newton
Fisher, Frederick Charles
Gale, Herbert Daniel
Hamilton, James Yeager
Harvey, George Rogers

Dinuba, Tulare County.
Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

J. Rene Clotfelter, Master,
George Foster P. Hedgpeth, Sr. Dea.,
Wm. Bates Nichols, Senior Warden, William Frederick Day, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Christie Wyman, Junior War., Archie Berton Wasgate, Marshal,
George Madison Dopkins, Treasurer, Samuel Ernest Burum, Steward,
Elmer Sibley, Secretary,
Gordon C. Giffin, Steward,
Joseph Fountain Cauby, Chaplain, Henry H. Burum, Tyler.

Arthur, Tom
Aye.r, Isaac Vanmeter
Burum, Henry H.
Burulil', Samuel Ernest
Burum, William Malcolm
Barris, Emery
Cash, John Simpson
lauby, Joseph Fountain
Cress, Jacob Daniel
Clotfelter, J. Rene
Day, William Frederick
Dichman, William James
Dopkins, George Madison
Dunn, George Ambrose
Ensign, Henry Wilson, P. M.

MEMBERS:
Giffin, Gordon Culbertson
Hauser, Walter Cicero
Howard, Frank Evans
Hedgpeth, George Foster P.
.uewis, Thomas M.
Morton, Richard Ephraim
Nichols, William Bates
Rhodes, John Livingston
Sibley, Elmer
Scoggins, Andrew Jackson
Williams, Thomas Freeman
Whittington, William
White, Frank Low
Wyman, William Christie
Wasgate, Archie Berton
-30

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

George Washington Hinkle, Master, Charles Lewis Kinney, Senior Deacon,
Samuel Allen Guiberson, Sen. War., Wilfrid Harry Boyce, Junior Deacon,
Henry Stuart Richmond, Jun. War., Hubert R. Crozier, Marshal,
Henry Clinton Kerr, Treasurer,
John Hinckley Webb, Steward,
Sylvester Douglas Porter, Secretary, Benj. Wm. Charlesworth, Steward,
Joseph Benjamin Mead, Tyler.

}

OFFICERS:

•

-25

Coalinga, Fresno County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

Newton C. Comfort, Master,
Charles Centennial Cohn, Sr. Deacon,
George Rogers Harvey, Sen. Ward., Howard A. Lampman, Jun. Deacon,
Thomas Dickey Aitken, Jun. Ward., Eugene Martin Barton, Marshal,
Harry Dohme Kneedler, Treasurer, Edward Cook, Steward,
On·ille Newton Fansler, Secretary, Myron Hall Chandler, Steward,
Robert Clement Round, Chaplain,
Arthur F. Dunham Redford, Tyler.

MEMBERS:
Herdman, Robert Ernest
Hoggrette, James Archibald
Kneedler, Harry Dohme
Lampman, Howard A.
Lear, Benjamin Edgar
Redford, Arthur Frederick D.
Reed, Thomas
·
Ross, James
Rounds, Robert Clement
Rouzee, Milton Elliott
Smith, Charles H.
Wright, Benjamin F.

COALINGA LODGE, No. 387.

CORREGIDORE LODGE, No. 386.
Manila., Philippine Islands.

569

(

MEMBERS:
Hinkle, George Washington, P. M.
Bender, Herbert Jacob
Kerr, Henry Clinton
Black, Harry L.
King, Robberson Jefferson
Boyce, Wilfrid Harry
Kinney, Charles Lewis
Charlesworth, Benjamin William
McFee, William James
Clow, Burton Roderick
Page, Perryman Fredrick
Cl'ozier, Hubert R.
-Pierce, Jam.e~ Henry
Davis, Arthur H .
Porter, Sylvester Douglas
Davis, Harry Sprague
Richmond, Henry Stuart
DeLong, David Magee
Rogers, David Thompson
Garrigan, William Henry
Shore, Richard Edward
(iromley, lnysses Sheridan
Smith, Alford Washington
Greer, William Alison
Smith, Thomas Pomroy
Guiberson, Samuel Allen
Trumbull. Louis Thomas
Guiberson, William Richard
Webb, .Tohn Hickley
-30
Hendrickson, John McElhaney

570

ROSTER.

ROSTER.

PARNASSUS LODGE, No. 3S8.

PALOS VERDES LODGE, No. 389.

San Francisco, San Francisco County.

Long Beach, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, second Tuesday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS:

OFFICERS:

Wm. Wallace Allen, Jr., Master,
Harvey Arthur Loveland, S. Deacon,
Harry Darius Saville, Sen. Warden, James Merton Hoyt, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Diedrich Koenig, Jun. Warden, Frank Christle Sunder, Marshal,
Wm. Henry Hendricks, Treasurer, William Arthur Cree, Steward,
William Albert Hoyt, Secretary,
James William Redpath, Steward,
Benjamin Bryon, Chaplain,
Edward Barnes, Tyler.
MEMBERS :
Adame, Frank Bertram
Koenig; Frederick Heinrich, Wm. D.
Allen, William Wallace, Jr., P. M. Little, John
Barnes, Edward
Long, James Francis
Beha, Charles Frederick
Longworth, Thomas
Brundage, Charles Edward
Loveland, Harvey Arthur
Brundage, Charles Stratton
Marsh, Albert LeRoy
Marsh, George ·warren
Bryon, Benjamin
McFarlane, Arthur Henry
Callender, Monroe Nathan
Carleton, Edwin Herbert
Millner, William Prosper
Mitchell, William lienry
Chaquette, Albert Bernard
Christiansen, Jens Peter
Redpath, James William
Remmel, Alva"Jacob
Cree, William Arthur
Doherty, William Francis
Riffee, Clarence Walter
Dykeman, John Joseph
Rutherford, James Andrew
Saville, Harry Darius
Force, Harold Wade
Fox, August William
Sherwood, Stanley Edward
Green, Thomas Jackson
SpHry, Jared Boardman
Gregory, John Meredith
Sunder, Frank Christle
Hart, Edgar Wayland
Theriot, Joseph Edward
Hendricks, William Henry
Thumler, Henry William
Hoyt, James Merton
Tooker, Simeon Edmund
Hoyt, William Albert
Varney, George H enry
J eseon, Walter Henry
Williams, John Butler
,Johnston, Andrew Lewis
Williams, Oscar Floyd
.Tones, Robert William
Yates, Walter Henry
-50

571

Jesse Josiah Morgan, Master,
'Edward J .. Starr, ~enior Deacon,
William F. Stevens, Senior Warden, John Hewitt, Junior Deacon,
Wm. Havelock Wallace, Jun. Ward., ~Benjamin Franklin Bond, Marshal,
Augustine Chas. Malone, Treasurer, ...... . ........ .. . ··· .. Steward,
·
'
Steward
Evan Mosher, Secretary,
• · · · · · · · · · · · · •· · · · · · · · ·
,
Josiah Sibley, Chaplain,
Mark Trafton Berry, Tyler.

t

MEMBERE?:
Mosher, Evan
Parker, John Robert
Porterfield, Austin Roy
Sibley, Josiah
Simmons, Charles Leonard
Shaul, Marion J.
Starr, Edward J.
Stevenl!, William F.
Thornton, Edwin Willia~
Wallace, William Havelock

Bond, Benjamin Franklin
Buffum, Charles Abell
Carr, Roy Nathan
Carroll, John
Collins, Arthur Raymond
Huntington, Charles Elmer
Heartwell, Charles Leonard
Hewitt, John
Malcom, Charles
Malone, Augustine Charles, 1'.· M.
Morgan, Jesse Josiah

)

•

r

{

-21

572

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA •

.ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Abell .............. 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocino.
Acacia ............. 92 Coloma .............. El Dorado.
A din .....•........ 250 Adin ................ Modoc.
.Alamo •............ 122 Walnut Creek ......• Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville .•........ Alameda.
Alcatraz ............ 244 Oakland ........... , . Alameda.
Alhambra .• , ... ... .. 322 Alhambra .......... •Los Angeles.
Alis al .•........ ... . 321 Pleas an ton ............ Alameda.
Alta ............ . .. 333 Bridgeport .......... Mono.
Atlurae ............ 248 Alturas ..............Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Amador •........... 65 Jackson ............. Amador.
Anaheim ... ·........ 207 Anaheim ..... "' ..... Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
Antioch ........ ; ... 175 Antioch ......... : ... Contra Costa.
Arcata. •............ 106 Arcata .............. Humboldt.
Arroyo ...... , ..... 274 Arroyo Grande .... , .•San Luis Obispo.
Artesia •........... 377 Artesia .............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton ...............San Bernardino.
Athene . ; ........... 228 Davisville ............ Yolo_.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa ............... Loe Angeles.
Bakers:field ......... 224 Bakersfield .......... Kern.
Bear Mountain ... . . 76 Angels Camp ........ Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ........ : .....Solano.
Berkeley ........ ... 363 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
Bodie ..... : ....... 252 Bodie ..... . ......... Mono.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ...........Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .......... 225 East Oakland ........ Alameda.
Buckeye •.......... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.
Buena Park ........ 357 Buena Park ....... .. . Orange.
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francis~o ........ San Francisco.
Calaveras . . . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayo mi •........ 282 Middletown ..........Lake.
Calistoga . "· ....... 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carquinez .•........ 337 Crockett ............ Contra Costa.
Cavite ............. 350 Cavite ..............Philippine Islands.
Charity ........... 362 Campbell ...... . ..... Santa Clara.
Chico .............. 111 Chico .. .. ........... Butte.
Claiborne . . . .. ..... 185 Point Arena . . ....... Mendocino.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat . .... ..... Placer.

)

'

No.

Post Office.

573

County.

Clear Lake · .... .. .. 183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ................. Shasta.
Coalinga ......... .. 387 Coalinga ............. Tulare.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Con:fidence .....•... 203 Castroville . . ..... .. . Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido ........... San Diego.
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa ............... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........••. Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena . : .......... Los Angeles.
Conregidor ... .. .... 386 Manila ...........•.. Philippine Islands.
Covelo •........... 231 Covelo •............. ,Mendocino,
Covina .... ... ..... 334 Covina .. . ...... .'.... Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City ........ Del Norte. ·
Crockett ........... l 39 San Francisco ....... ·San Francisco.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 300 Delano .............. Kern.
Dinuba ............ 38fi Dinuba .............. Tulare.
Doric ............. 216 San :E)'ancisco ........ San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey ............. Los Angeles.
Drytown •......... 174 Drytown ... ......... Amador.
Dunsmuir ..... . ... 297 Dunsmuir ............ Siskiyou.
Durant .........•.. 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.
East Belt ......... U. D. Tuolumne ............ Tuolumne.
East Gate ..... . ... 290 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Eden ...... : ....... 113 San Leandro ...•....• Alameda.
Eel River ........ . . 147 Rohnerville .... . ..... Humboldt.
El Centro ....... .. .. 384 El Centro ............ San Diego.
El Dorado . . . . . . . . . 26 Placerville .. . ....... El Dorado.
Elk Grove ....... .. 173 Elk Grove . . . ........ Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ... .... ........ Butte.
Enterprise ......... 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Eucalyptus ........ 243 . Haywards ........... Alameda.
Eureka ..... . .. ... . 16 Auburn .. . .........• Placer.
Evening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fallbrook ... : ..... 317 Fallbrook ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Ferndale ............ Humboldt.
Fidelity . .......... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore . .. ........ 379 Fillmore .............Ventura.
Forbestown ... .. ... 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest ... ·. . . . . . . . . . 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.

574

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mendocino.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ....... ·~ ..•Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ...San Mateo.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship .....••.. 210 San Jose .......... : .Santa Clara.
Fruitvale •......... 336 Fruitvale ... .'........ Alameda.
Fullerton ........... 339 Fullerton ............ Orange.
GaH ............... 267 Galt ................ Sacramento.
Gardena .......... 372 Gardena ......... •.... Los Angeles.
Georgetown .•...... 25 Georgetown ...•.... , .El Dorado.
George Washington . 62 Chinese Camp ......... Tuolumne.
Gibsonville ........ 158 Gibsonville .......... Sierra.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden State ...... 3;)!i Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . 32 Lincoln .............. Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
,,
Granite ........... 222 Rocklin ............. Placer.
Gravel Range ...... 59 Camptonville ........ Yuba.
Guadalupe ......... 237 Guadalupe ........... Santa Barbara.
Hanford .......... 279 Hanford .......•..... Kings.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City .......... Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian . . . . . . . . . . 21 Honolulu ......•.....Hawaiian Islands.
Henry Clay ........ 95 Sutter Creek ......... Amador.
Hermann .......... 127 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
;Hesperian ......... 264 Santa Maria ........•Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ...... 382 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman ........... .,Stanislaus.
Hiram ............. 43 El Dorado ........... El Dorado.
Hollenbeck · ........ 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood ........ 355 Hollywood ........... Los Angeles.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith .........•.. Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ............. Maripos.a. .
Howard ........... 96 Yreka ............... Siskiyou.
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka ............. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown . . . . . . . . 51 Colfax .............. Placer.
Imperial .......... U. D. Imperial ............. Imperial.
Inyo .............. 221 Independence ........ Inyo.
Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 Ione ................ Amador.
Jefferson .......... 97 Laporte ............. Plumas.
Janesville ......... 233 Janesville . . . . . . . . . . Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.

)

575

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Keith ............• 187 Gilroy ............... Santa Clara.
Keystoh.e .......... 161 Milton ............... Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Islands.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo . . . . . San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol ...•....... Sonoma.
La Grange ......... 99 Merced .............. Merced.
Landmark ......... 253 Madison ............. Yolo.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ...... , . : ......Fresno,
Lassen ............ ~49 Susanville ........... Lassen.
Laurel ............ 245 Willows ..............Glenn.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............ Los Angeles.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara .......... Santa Clara.
Live Oak ......... 61 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ........... 262 Lompoc ..... , ........Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos ........... Merced.
Los Gatos ......... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton •......... 359 Loyalton ............ Sierra.
Madera ........•... 280 Madera .............. Madera.
Madison . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Grass Valley ....... : . Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Manila ............ 342 Manila .............. Philippine Islands.
Manzanita ......... 102 North San Juan ...... Nevada.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa .......... 24 Mariposa ............ Matiposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez ............ Contra Costa.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ............. Colusa.
McKinley .......... 347 Point Richmond ...•• Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino.
Meridian .......... 182 College City ......... Colusa.
Mill Valley ......•. 356 Mill Valley .......... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah ............ 378 Los Angeles •........ Los Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill ...... Calaveras.
Molino ............ 150 Tehama ............. Tehama.
Monrovia ......... 308 Monrovia ........ ; ... Los Angeles.
Monterey .......... 217 Monterey ............ Monterey.
Morning Star ...... 68 Stockton , .. , ........ San Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ..•..•..... Alameda.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville .......... Sonoma.

576
Lodge.

ALPRABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
No.

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

County.

Mount Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mountain Shade . . . 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 A"n:derson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Mount Zion ....... 114 Grizzly Flat ......... -El Dorado.
Natoma ........... 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval .. . .......... 87 Vallejo . : ............ Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ............• San Bernardino.
Nevada ..... ... ... 13 Nevada City .......•. Nevada.
Newville . .......... 205 Newville ............ .Glenn.
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland ........... Yuba:
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley . . ........... Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ..........Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ............. Shasta.
North Star •....... 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk ... .. ..... 315 Norwalk ............ Los Angeles.
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ......... 215 Alameda ............•Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland .............Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park ....... 369 Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles.
Oceanic ........... 371 Honolulu ............ Oahu.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ........... San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare .............. Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario ........ ... 301 Ontario .............. San Bernardino.
Ophir ..... ..... .. . 33 Murphy 's ............ Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange ........•..... Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ....... . San Francisco.
Orland ............ 265 Orland ...........•.. Glenn.
Orosi . _ ............ 383 Orosi ................ Tulare.
Oroville .......... .. 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Owen ............. 108 ·scott 's Bar .......... Siskiyou.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific ............ 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove .... ...•.Monterey.
Pajaro ............ 110 Watsonville .........•Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles ...... ~ ...Los Angeles.
Palmyra ........... l 51 Placerville ........... El Dorado.
Palo Alto . ...... . . . 346 Palo Alto ...... . .. . . . Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes ....... 389 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco .... . ... San Francisco.
Parnassus ... ....... 388 San Francisco ........ Sau Francisco.

Lodge.

I

)

No.

Post Olllce.

577

County.

Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena •.........•. Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Roblee .... ~· ....San Luis Obispo.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ....•........ ~Placer.
Pentalpha ..• ...... 202 Los Angeles ......... .Los Angeles.
Petaluma .......... 180Petaluma ............. Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ..... ,San Bernardino.
Pinole ......•...... 353 Pinole .......... .. .... Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . . • . . 60 Quincy .............•Plumas.
Pomona ........... 246 Pomona ............. Los Angeles.
Porterville ........ . 303 Porterville ....••.... . Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Quitman ........ .' .• 88 North Bloomfield .... . Nevada.
Reading .... ·....•.. 254 Redding ............. Shasta."
Redlands .......... 300 Redlands ....... ... ..•San Bernardino.
Redondo .........•. 328 Redondo .• ·........... Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...• ; .168 Redwood City ........ San Mateo.
Reedley .......... . 304 Reedley ............. Fresno.
•
Richmond ·...•...•. 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Rio Vista .......... 208 Rio Vista .....•...... Solano.
Rising Star . • • . . . . . 83 Forest Hill .......... Placer.
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . 89 Smartsville ...........Yuba.
Russian River . : . ... 181 Windsor ............• Sonoma.
Sacramento· ........ 40 Sacramento .......... Sacramf'nto.
Saint Helena ....•. • 93 St. Helena ......•.... Napa.
Saint John's ....... 37 Yreka ........ . .....•Siskiyou.
Salinas ...•..•..... 204 Salinas ............. •Monterey.
San Benito : .....•.• 211 Hollister ...•...•..... San Benito.
San Buenaventura ... 214 Ventura .. ... .•.... .. Ventura.
Santa Ana ......... 241 Santa Ana •....•..... Orange.
Santa Barbara •.... 192 Santa Barbara .••.... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ........• 38 Santa Cruz .•.•..... Santa Cruz.
San Diego . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego ............San Diego.
Sanger .. .. . ....... 316 Sanger •... . ......... Fresno.
San Bernardino ..... 348 San Bernardino .•....San Bernardino.
San Fernando ...... 343 Fernando ......•..... Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..... 360 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
San Jacinto_........ 338 San Jacinto • ........ Riverside.
San Joaquin ....... 19 Stockton ............. San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo .......•... San Mateo.
San Miguel ....•.. 285 San Miguel .••. .•. ... San Luis Obispo.
San Pedro .. ... . .. . 332 San Pedro ...•....... Los Angeles.
Santa Lucia ••...•. 3.02 Kings City ......... Monterey.
87

578
Lodge.

. ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES.
No.

Post Office.

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

County.

Santa Maria ....••. 340 Santa Maria ......... Santa Barbara.
Santa Monica ...•.. 307 i;>anta Monica ... , .... Los Angeles.
Santa Paula .....•. 291 Santa Paula ......... Ventura.
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria ............. San Luis Obispo.
Santa Rosa ........ 57 Santa Rosa .......... Sonoma.
Selma ........... , . 277 Selma ............... Fresno.
Sequoia , , ....•..... 349 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Sierra Valley ..•... 184 Sierra ville ........... Sierra.
Silveyville ........• 201 Dixon ......•........ Solano.
Silver Gate .......• 296 San Diego ..... , .... . San Diego.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville ..•....... Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Sisson ......•........ Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford .......... Colusa.
Solano ............ 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg . . . . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
South Gate ........ 320 Los Angeles ........•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .•.. 367 South Pasadena •..... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South West ....•... 283 National City ..•..... San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .•. 219 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Stanislaus ......•.. 206 Modesto ...•.•..•.••. Stanislaus.
Starr King , .....• ,344 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Suisun .......•.. , • 55 Suisun ......•.••.... Solano.
Summit ...•.••..•. 112 Knights Ferry ..... , .Stanislaus.
Sunset , ... , ........ 352 Los Angeles ..•...... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .... 235 Cedarville ....••..... Modoc.
Table Mountain •... 124 Cherokee .•.•........ Butte.
Tehachapi ......•.• 313 Tehachapi ...•....... Kern.
Tehama . . • . . . . . . • . • 3 Sacramento ...•••.... Sacramento.
Temescal .......... 314 Corona ....•......• , .Riverside.
Temple .......•.... 14' Sonoma ............• Sonoma..
Texas ...........•• 46 San Juan •.•....•... San Benito.
Traver •........... 294 Kingsburg ........... Fresno.
Trinity .........•.. 27 Weaverville .......... Trinity.
Truckee ...•....•.. 200 Truckee ...•......... Nevada.
Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . • 8 Sonora ..•..........• Tuolumne.
Tuscan ......••. ·.•. 261 Williams ...•..•....• Colusa.
Tyrian ............ 284 Dunnigan ............ Yolo.
Union ......•...•.. 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento.
Unity .......•..•.. 368 Glendale •.....•....•. Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......••• 134 Vacaville .....•.•.••. Solano.
Vallee de FraJ,lCe •••• 329 Los Angeles ....••.••,Los Angeles.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

.

County.

Valley ............. 135 Linden ............. . San Joaquin.
Vesper : ........... 84 Red Bluff ... ~ ......... Tehama.
Veteran . . ......... 373 Sawtelle ............. Los Angeles.
Visalia .•.......... 128 Visalia ..... , ........ Tulare.
Vitruvius .....•.... 145 Bloomfield ......... , .Sonoma.
Volcano ........... 56 Volcano ............. Amador.
Washington •..••... 20 Sacramento ...•...... Sacramento.
Welcome . , .•...... 255 Lemoore ...•..... , •• Kings.
Western Star . . • . . • 2 Shasta •............. Shasta.
West Gate ......... 335 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
West Lake ....... U. D. Los Angeles ...........Los Angeles.
Whittier ........... 323 Whittier .......•..... Los Angeles.
Willits ............. 365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington ..•..•.... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 Bishop ........•..... Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ......... San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yolo ......•........ 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
Yosemite .......•.. 133 Coulterville .......... Mariposa.
Yount ............. 12 Napa ................ Napa.
Yuba .............. 39 · Marysville ........... Yuba.

)

( ;

579

' I

580

Post Office.

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Alphabetically Arranged.
Post Office.

Lodge.

581

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

LOCATION OF LODGES.

No.

Adin ......•........•.... Adin ............•.......... 2.50
Alliambra ..•........•... Alhambra .........•........ 322
Alameda ••••••••••• , •••• Oak Grove ...••.....•... , ... 215
Alleg_h any •.............. Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
A1Euras •.•.•.•..•..•.•.• Alturas •..•.••. . ••••....•.. 248
Anaheim •..•..••.••..•.. Anaheim ................... 207
Anderson •.••........••.. Mount Shasta ............... 281
Angels Camp ..•.......•. Bear Mountain ............. 76
Antioch •.••••...•...•... Antioch .................... 175
Arroyo Grande ..........• Arroyo •.......•...•...•.... 274
Auburn ...•.....•....•... Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 16
Arcata ..•.•............. Arcata ..................... 106 .
Artesia ......•.....••.... Artesia ••.•.••..•..... : ..... 377
Azusa .....••...•....•..• Azusa .....•••.......•...... 305
·Bakersfield •..•....•.•... .Bakersfield ................. 224
Beckwith •...••.......... Hope ......•................ 234
Benicia ..................Benicia • . • . . . • • • • . • . . • . . . . . 5
Berkeley ......•........• Durant •.•..•.........•..... 268
Berkeley •.....•....•...• Berkeley ......•............ 363
Biggs ..................• Emmanuel •..•..•....•...... 318
Bishop ........••..•..... Winnedumah .....•..•...... 287
Bloomfield ........••...•. Vitruvius •• _•..•..•...•..... 145
Bodie •.......•...•.....• .Bodie ..........••••....•.... 252
Brentwood ....•.••.•.....• Brentwood ••..•..•..•...... 345
Bridgeport ...•..•....... .Alta .........•....••.•.•..• 333
Buena Park .•............ Buena Park ...•............ 357
Cil.lis.toga ................ Calistoga ' .•...•.....•...... 233
Cambria .....•........... San Simeon ... .. ....•.•...... 196
Campbell ................ Charity .....••.•••••...••.. 362
Qomptonville .............Gravel Range . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . 59
Castroville •..•.••..•.•..• Confidence ............•..... 203 .
Cavite, P. I .•••..•..•.•.•• Cavite ............•....••... 350
•Cedarville ............••. Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville •....•••..•.•• .Alameda ..........•........ 167
Clierokee .........•.....• Table Mountain ...........• 124
Chinese Camp ..••..•.. -. .. George Washington .......... 62
ChiCo ...•.•..•••••••••• ,.Chico .........•......•.•... 111

j

Lodge.

No.

Cloverdale ............... Curtis •.•••.•••..••••.•....• 140
Coalinga •.......•.•..•••• Coalinga .........••..•.••.• 387
Coulterville ...•.. ••... •.• Yosemite •........•.. .'..•. :. Ul3
College City ..............Meridian ......•...•.•.•.... 182
Colfax •..•.....•..•.••.• .Illinoistown •....•... : . • . • . . 51
Corona •....•..........•• Temescal •......•..•...•...• 314
Courtland •.....•..•.•.•. .Franklin ...•..•..•....•.•.. .143
Covelo •...• , .....•••..••• Covelo •..•........•......... 231
Colusa .....••..••..•...•. Colusa .........•..... , ......240
Colton •..•.......•..•••• ~<\.shlar .................••... 306
Covina ••.......••••.....•Covina ..................... 3"34
Compton .........•••..•. .Anchor ..........•......•...273
Coloma ..........•....... Acacia ............•....•.... ·92 •
Corning ..............•.. Olivet ....•.....•..•........ 364
Crescent City ......•..... Crescent .•.......•....•.... 45
Crockett •..•............•Carqui11ez •.....••.••..•. ". ..•337 .
Davisville ......••.•....• Athens ...........•......... 2'2B
Delano .•.•..•.....•...•. Delano ..•.............•...• 309
Dinuba .................. Dinuba ........•.......... ,. .385
Dixon ...•..•.......••... Bilveyville .................• 201
Downey ..•......•.•...•• Downey .•....•...•.•....... 220
Downieville .............. Mountain Shade .•..•...•... 18
Drytown .•......•....••• .Drytown •................. ~17 4 ,
Dutch Flat .............. Clay ... ~ .................... 101
Dunsmuir .........•....• .Dunsmuir ..........•.•..•... 297
Dunnigan ...•....•....•••Tyrian ...........•..•...... 284 .
East Oakland ......•....• Brooklyn ..•.....•.•••.•.... 225 .
East Los Angeles ..•...••. Sunset ...•........•.•.•..... 290 ·
Elk Grove .........•..... Elk Grove •..........•••.... 173
Elsinore ••.•..•...•••· .••• :E)lsinore •..•..•...••••.•.... 289 ·
El Centro •.....•..••••..• El Centro ........•.......... 384 1
El Dorado •..•.....•••... Hiram .... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 ,
El Monte .............••• Lexington •.....•..•...•.... 104'
Escondido ................Consuelo .........•.... . .... 325 .
Etna Mill ...•.•....•.•... Evening Star .....••........ 186
Eureka ......•.....••..•. Humboldt ........••........ .79
Fall brook •.......••.•.•• .Fallbrook •.....•.••....•.••. 317
Fernando ...... -• •..•.•... San Fernando .......•....•.• 343
Ferndale ........••..•.•• .Ferndale ••...•.••..••.....•. I93 .
Fillmore ...•..•.•••••...• Fillmore .> • ••••••••••••••••••.379
Forbestown ••...••.••...• Forbestown . . . . . • • • • • • • • . . . . 50 .
Folsom .......•.•..•..... Natoma ........••.....•.... 64·
Fort .Bidwell ............ ,North- East ...•............. 266 ;-

582

LOCATION OF LODGES.
Post Office.

Lodge.

583

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
Poot Office.

No.

Fort Bragg ...... , .••..•• Fort Bragg ....•..•....•.•.. 361
Fort Jones .........••..•. North Star .... , •....•...... 91
1''orest Hill .............. Rising Star ................. 83
Fresno ........••.• ·.•••.• .Fresno ..............•...... 24 7
l!'resno ..... •....•.•..•...•Las Palmas ................. 366
Fruitvale .....•...•.•..•• Fruitvale ......•.........•.. 336
Fullerton ............•..• Fullerton .......•..•..•.••.. 339
Galt.............•...... ,.Galt ..•.•.•.....•..••••..... 267
Gardena ....•••...•...••. Gardena ..................•. 372
Georgetown .•.•..•.....•• Georgetown • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . . • 25
Gibsonville · .............. Gibsonville •••.•••••••••.... 158
Gilroy •.•.......•.••••.•. Keith •..••..•.•••.•...•.... 187
Glendale .....•.....•••... Unity ..............•....•.. 368
Grafton ................. Grafton .................... 141
Grass Valley ............. Madison .................... 23
Greenville .....• , •..•.••• Sincerity •. , .••...•. , •..•... 132
Grizzly Flat ............. Mount Zion ...•.••••.....•.. 114
Gridley ...........•.....• North Butte ......•......... 230
Gu!Ldalupe ............... Guadalupe ...............•.. 237
Gil.erneville ................ Mount Jackson .......•...•. 295
Hanford ..............•.. Hanford •..•...........•.... 279
Haywards ............ : .. Eucalyptus .............•... 243
Healdsburg .............• Sotoyome ................... 123
Hilo, H. I. . , .....• , ..•.•. Kilauea •..••.•• , .. , .•• , ..... 330
Hornitos ..........•...... Hornitos .... , ..• , .. , ..•.••. 98
Hollister .........•. , , , , ..San Benito . , . , , , . , , , .•..... 211
Hollywood ............... Hollywood ..........•....... 355
Honolulu, H. I .. , ... , ..... Hawaiian ......•.•......•.. 21
Honolulu, H. I. ........... Oceanic ......... ·· .......•.. 371
Huntington Beach •.....•. Huntington Beach .......•... 380
Igo ...................... Clinton ..................... 119
Imperial ................. Imperial ..... : ............ U. D.
Independence ............. Inyo • , ...... , , .. , .. , ........ 221
Ione . .' ................... Ione .. , •.... , , ..•.......... 80
Jackson ................• Amador ...............•...• 65
.Tanesville ................ Janesville ...•.............. 232
Kingsburg ............... Traver ... , ... , ....... : ..... 294
Kings City .......... : .... Santa Lucia ................ 302
Knights Fe1ry . L•,, ,_, ••. ,6JUIWl,it. .....................112
Lakeport ................. Hartley ................. , .. 19!l
Laporte ................. Jefferson .................. , 97
Lemoore ................. Welcome ................•.. 255
Lin~oln .................. Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32

•'

Lodge.

No.

Livermore ...........••.. Mosaic ........•...... , .. , , . 218
Linden •....•........•.•. Valley . , ... , . , . , ..•.•....... 135
Lodi ........ , ...•...••••. Lodi ...............•..... , . 256
Lompoc .....•...........• Lompoc ............•........ 262
Lower Lake .....•....... Clear Lake · •..............•.. 183
Long Beach •..........••. Long Beach ................. 327
''
............. . Palos Verdes ................ 389
Los Angeles .............. Los Angeles • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
''
............. . Pentalpha .....•............ 202
............. . Southern California ......... 278
"
''
.............. East Gate .................. 290
''
............. . Hollenbeck ................. 319
..........•••. South Gate ................. 320
"
.............. Vallee de France •• , ......... 329
"
.•....•......• West Gate .................. 335
"
..............
Palestine .................•. 351
"
............. . Sunset , , ... , ... , .............. . 352
"
.....••..•..•. Golden State ................ 358
"
... ·.....•..•.• Mizpah •• , ••••• , ••• , ........ 37!!'
"
.............. Highland Par~ .............. 382
"
.............. West Lake ................ U. D.
"
Los Banos ...........•... Los Banos .......•.......... 312
Los Gatos ................ Los Gatos .................. 292
Loyalton .••••••. , ........Loyalton .... , .......•...... 35!l
Marysville .........•..... Corinthian . , , ......... , . . . . . 9
''
............. . Yuba ....................... 39
Madison .............•••. Landmark .....•..•........• 253
Manila ... ." ....•.•• , ..•.. Manila, P. I. ................ 342
''
.................. Corregidor .................. 386
Maxwell ...••.•......•.•. Maxwell ..... : . ............. 288
Madera ..........•••.•...Madera, ..................... 280
Mariposa •.......••••••.. Mariposa ..................• 24
Martinez ....... , ••....•. .Martinez . , ..• , ••... , ........ 41
Merced ........•....•..•. La Grange ........•......... 99
Mendocino •• : ••••..•.•.. .Mendocino ............•..... 179
Middletown •..•...••.....Callayomi ..... , •.. ; ......•. 282
Milton ...................Keystone ................... 161
Mill Valley ...........••. Mill Valley ............ , .... 356
Millville .............•.•• Northern Light ............. 190
Mokelumne Hill ......••.• Mokelumne Hill ............ 298
Monrovia .•.•..•.••...••. Monrovia .....•........•.... 308
Monterey .........• ; .•..• Monterey ................... 217
Mountain View .... , • , •..•Mountain View •.... , ....... 194

584

585

LOCATION OF LODGES.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA.

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Modesto ............... .. Stanislaus ..... ; ......•.. . .. 206
Murphy's ................ Ophir .... : ..•....... : . . . . . . . 33
National City . . .......... South West ..•............•. 283
Napa ... . .....•. ... ......Yount ..... ................ • 12
N ewman •.. .. : . .. .. ....•.Hill's Ferry •............... 236
Needles .... ... ... ......•• Needles .................... 326
Nevada City . ... ......... Nevada ............•....... 13
Newville ..................Newville . .. .......•........ 205
North Bloomfield . ... ..... Quitman ............•.....• 88
North San Juan .......... Manzanita .... ........•.... 102
Norwalk ................. Norwalk ................... 315
Oakland ................. Live Oak ......•....•.....• 61
''
... ....... ..... . .. Oakland . .. .... . .......... . 188

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Redwood City • ...... . . .. . Redwood City .....••.....•. 168
Red Bluff ...•....••....•• Vesper • . . . . . . • . . . . • • . .• . • . . • 84
Rio Vista .. . ...........•. Rio Vista •.............•... 208
Riverside .....•......•.•• ETergreen ...•.•.......... , . 259
Rocklin •..........•..... Granite .....•....••. . . . •.•.. 222
Rohnerville ...•.......... Eel River .....••.....•..... 147
Sacramento ....•.•....... Tehama . . . . . • . • . . . . • . . . . • . . 3
"
•............. Washington . . . • . . • • • . . . . . ..• 20
"
. ..........•.. Sacramento ••••.••.•••...... 40
"
.•.••....•.... Union .......••..•••.•...... 58

................. Secinoia .................... 349
''
................ . Alcatraz ........... .. ....... . 244
Oakdale ... ...•.......... Oakdale ...........•..•..... 275
· Oceanside •....••..••..•••Oceanside .........•.•...... 381
Ontario . ... ..... ..• •.•.•• Ontario ...........•••...•.. 301
Orange .......••••...•••• Orange Grove ..... ..•. .... . . 293
Orland .•.....•.•~ .•• .••• Orland ..................... 265
Orosi .................... Orosi ....................... 383
Oroville ........ ... ....•• Oroville ......•...•....•.... 103
Oxnard . . .............•.. Oxnard ..............•.•... 341
Pacific Grove ..........•• Pacific Grove •..•..•........ 331
Palo Alto ..• .. .. .. ..... , .Palo Alto .........•..•..... 346
Paso Robles ..•........•.. Paso Robles .........•..•... 286
Pasadena .............•.. Pasadena ................ .. 272
Pasadena .....•...•.....• Corona .... . ................324
Penryn .................• Penrhyn ....................258
Petaluma ............. .• • Petaluma .. ........••..•..• 180
Pinole ................••. Pinole ..............•...... 353
Pleasanton ............... Aiisal ................... . •. 321
Placerville .•...•........• El Dorado • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
''
.............. . Palmyra ................... . 151
Point Arena •. ...• .. .• .•• Claiborne .. . ....•.......... 185
Point Richmond ... . ...... McKinley ..... .......•..... 347
Pomona • ..•.. ......•. : .• .Pomona .... ....... .. ....... 246
Porterville • .. ........••.• Porterville .• ......•......... 303
Quincy ..... ... .. ......•. Plumas .................... 60
Redondo .... .. •... .... ••• Redondo ...•..... .... ...•. . 328
Redding ... . .• .. ...••.•.•Reading .................... 254
Redlands ........•.•••••• Redlands .. ............. .. •. 300
Reedley ..........•..••.• Reedley .................... 304

''

............. . Concord ................... . 117

San Andreas ......•... ... Calaveras .......•• ••• ..•... 78
San Bernardino ..•• • : .•. •Phoenix ..•.....•... . ....... 178

''

''

. ........ . 88.n Bernardino ............ . 348

San Diego •....•...••.... San Diego .....••.•.•.. .. ... 35
''
.......... . ... . Silver Gate ........ .. ...... . 296
San Francisco ..••....••.. California . . . • . . • . . . • . • . . . • . 1
''
......... . . . Parfaite Union ............. 17
•.....••.••. Occidental •.......•• ·. . . . • . • 22
"
••.••••.• , .. Golden Gate . . . • . . • • . • • . . . . . 30
"
•..•••.••••• Mount Moriah •.•.•. •.•.•. . . «
"
............Fidelity ...••......••.•...•. 120
"
...........•
Hermann •••••.••.•••••...•.127
"
•.•........• Pacific ...••..•.•..••....... 136
"
.•..•....••• Crockett .•.... .. ••.••...... 139
"
...•.•...•.• Orlen tal ..•.....•••••••.•... 144
"
....•.••.••• Excelsior •......•..• • ....... 166
"
•••......... Mission ... .• .••...•.•... ... 169
"
•.••••••••.• South San Francisco . .•..... 212
"
..•••••••••• Doric ..••.....•....••.•..•. 216
"
•..•.••.••••
Speranza I taliana •••.... .• •. 219
"
•.••.••••••• King Solomon's ... ••. ••.•••. 260
"
.....••••.•. Starr King •...•..•.•.••.•.. 344
"
.... •• •..• •. Presidio ... ....•. ...• •• .. ... 354
"
••.•..•.•••• San Francisco •..•••........ 360
"
•••••••• •••• Amity •.•.•••...••••.•..•.. 370
"
.•.•.••..••.Jewel ........••............ 374
"
•.•.•.•••••• Richmond ...•...• ... •... . .. 375
"
''
............ Parnassus ................... 388
San Jacinto ... ...••••• ·•.• San Jacinto .....••.••...... 338
San Jose • . ....••••..•.... San Jose ....••..••....•. ... 10
''

................ . l!1riendship

................. 210

San Juan •...•..... . •...• Texas . . . . . • . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . 46

586
Post Office.

LoCATION OF LODGES.
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
No.

San Leandro •..•..• . ...•. Eden .... . ....•.... • •... • ... 113
San Lui& Obispo •... . . •. . . King David'11 •...•.....•••.. 209
San .Mateo •..........••.. San Mateo .... .. . • ..••..•.. 226
San Miguel •••••• , •••.•..•Ban Miguel •.......••.••.... 285
San Pedro •.••..•.•..• . ••.San Pedro .... . ....••.•.••.. 332
San Rafael ......•......•. Marin ......... .• .....••..• . 191
Santa Ana ............. .. Santa Ana •• , . ... , ••••.....•241
Santa Barbara ..... .. .... Santa Barbara . •..... • .. ., . . 192
''
. .. ",." ....... . Magnolia .. . .. . .. . ......... . 242
Santa Cru!ll . .. .... .. • .• ..• Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 38
Santa Clara • • • ...•.. • .•. •Liberty ... • . •.. • .... • ...... 299
Santa Maria ...... • •• ...• Hesperian .. ..•. ; •..••..•.• • 264
''
... .... .. ... . Santa Maria ....... . .... . .. . 34:0
Santa Monica .... . ...... . Santa Monica .. . ............307
''
...... . .... . Ocean Park .......... . ... . . 369
Santa Paula ..•..•.• . . ..... Santa Paula , , •• , .... . ......291
Santa Rosa .............• Santa Rosa . ... .. . .•.••. . .. . 57
Salinas .. ... ......... . .. . Salinas . . .. . ....•.....• . .... 204
Sanger ••••••• • •••••......Sanger .... . .................316
Sawtelle .............•.. •Veteran . . ........•..... . .. . 373
Scott's Bar ............•. Owen .. : ..•.••..••.•..•.... 108
Beba11topol ......•....... . La Fayette .... ·.............126
Selma •••••••••• , ••••••.•Selma ... .• ..........•....... 279
Saint Helena ............. Saint Helena ............... 293
Shasta •.................• Western Star • • • • . • • • . . . . . . . 2
Sierra City •....•••.••...• Harmony •....•...•......... 164
Sierraville •..•....•..•. .. Sierra Valley ........... . ... 184
Sisson ••••••••••••••.• • .. .Sisson ...·.......•••..••..... 310
Smartsville .•.•..•..•.••. .Rose's Bar . . . . . . • . • • . • • . • . • . 89
South Pasadena . . .... . ....South Pasadena ...•..•••.... 367
South San Francisco •.•• . • . Francis Drake • .• ...•....•.. 376
SOlloma ....•.• . .•.. • ••...Temple ...............•...... 14
Sonora .....••..• • ..•.•.• , Tuolumne . . • . . • • . . . . . • • . . . . 8
Stockton . . ..•.••.•.. •• •.• San Joaquin . . • . • • • . • . . . . . . . 19
''
. . .... . .... . .... . Morning Star ..... . ........ 68
Stony Ford • .....•..•.... Snow Mountain •..... • ..•... 271
Susanville •••••.••••.•... Lassen .••.••••.•.... . ......149
Sutter Creek •..••.• • •.••• Henry Clay •...•..... • •••... 95
Suisun .••••••••••••... . . .Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Tehama . •••• ••••••.••... .Molino ......•....•.••...... 150
Tehachapi ...............Tehachapi .................. 313
Truckee ........•........Truckee •.. . ..•............. 200
Tulare , ....••.•. • ••.•• , .. Olive Branch .....• . ....••. . 269

Post Office.

L odge.

587
No.

Tuolumne .. . : . ..... . . . . .. East Belt .. . ........ . . . . . . u. D.
Ukiah ... . ..•.••••••. . .•• Abell . . . • • • • . . •
146
Vallejo ...•.•..•.•.•.••..l'iaval ...................
• . ' •. '· · ....
· •· ·
87
''
. . ·.•.....•........ Solano ..•.....•.•...•...•. . . 229
Vacaville ...•... . ........ Vacaville ........... • ..... . .134
Ve11tura ....•....... . ... . San Buenaventura ..•. • ••.••• 214
Visalia .....••.••••• • •••• Visalia .••••..•...• • •.... . •• 12 g
Volcano ...• • •••...••..•.. Voleano .
•
56
Walnut Creek •••..••..•• . Alamo • .
.Watsonville ••..•.•• • ..••. Pajaro .. ·.•.. • ......•....... 110
Weaverville . • .•..•..•..• Trinity .............•..•.... 27
Wheatland .•••.•.••.••... Nicolaus .... . ••............ 129
Whittier ..••.. . .•.••.. • .. Whittier .•. . .....••..•.•.•.. 323
Winters ............... . . Buckeye
195
Willits ..•.••••••.••.•.•• Willits • ."."." ....•.•.. ' .... . ..365

.".".".".".".".".".".".".:::::::urn

Willows .••..• . .......... .Laurel .... : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 245
Windsor •••••.•.•••••••.• Russian River ...•.•...... . .. 181
Williams ............•..•.Tuscan ..•••••.••.•......... 261
Wilmington ••••••••••••••Wilmington •.•••.•.....••..• 198
Woodbridge ........... . .. Woodbridge •••• • •• , . , •....•. 131
Woodland •••••.•..•. • •.. Woodland .•.•...•••.•••.... 156
Yolo • .....••. • ••••.•.••..Yolo ..... , ......... . . , ..... 81
Yreka ............••••.• .. St. John's .......• • •........ 37
96
" · . · ...••••••••••••• Howard
Yuba City •.••••..••••..• Enterpris~ . :::::: : ::::::::::: 70

I

;

\

r

588

LIST OF INSPECTORS.
NAME

District

Town

Alonzo J. Monroe ............ . .. 1st .............•.... Eureka.
'l'homas J. Richards .............. 2d .............•..... Mendocino.
Arthur V. McNab ....•........... 3d .. ................ Ukiah.
Charles W. Nutting ............. 4th .. ~ ............ , .. Etna Mills.
Charles E. Glidden ....... . ... . .. 5th ..... .. ........... Sisson.
Charles C. Corbiere .............. 6th . . ................ Redding.
Ernest C. Bonner ........... '. . .. 7th ...........•...... Afturas.
William H. Samson .............. 8th .................. Corning.
Samuel H . .Crow ................ 9th ... , .....•........ Sierraville.
James 0. Moncur .............. 10th . . ................ Quincy.
Gilbert May .................. 11th .................. La Porte.
Eliphalet L. Case .............. 12th ... : .............. Downieville.
John D. Murphey ............. . 13th .. ...•..... . ...... Bridgeport.
Frederick L. Arbogast ......... :14th .................. ~evada City.
Michael D. Lininger ... . ....... 15th ...... . .....•..... Auburn.
Roger S. Kitrick ............... 16th .................. . Oroville.
Jay W. Ashley ............... . . 17th .. .'............... Yuba City.
Jefferson D. DanIJ,e_:r: ... ....•.... . . 18th .............•.... Willows.
Curtis J. Mqm;oe ................. .. . 19th . .. ,, •...•........ Lakeport.
Isaac McGuffin ............. ·... 20th . ................. Guerneville.
William Gee .......... ; .... . .. 21st ........... .. ..... Vallejo.
Levi Nuttall .................. 22d ........ . ......... Sacramento.
Hayes H. Gable ............. .. . 23d .................. Woodland.
Frederick W. Gee ............ . . 24th .................. Placerville.
James E. Dye ...... ..... .... . . 25th ........... . ... ... Jackson.
Frederick W. Clough ........... 26th ............ . ..... Angels Camp.
J; Au~stus Stites . , ..... ... .. . 27th ......... : ....... . Stockton.
Louis N. Buttner ............ .. 28th .................. Martinez.
Daniel M . Watson ............. 29th ........... . ...... Benicia.
John T. Morrison ....... .. .... . 30th .................. Berkeley.
Albert B. Webster ............. 31st .................. Oakland.
Charles N. Walter .............. 32d .................. Oakland.
Richard S. Allen ................ 33d ............ . ..... San ·Francisco.
Max Goldman .... . ........... 34th ... . ......... . .... San Fran~isco.
George F. Rodden ........... . .. 35th . .. ... ............ San Rafael.
Roderick G. Guyett ............ 36th .................. Palo Alto.
Delos W. Smythe ............ . . 31th ..... . ........... . San Jose.
William H. Benteen ........ . ... 38th .................. Watsonville.

District

Town

John S. Larew ................. 39th ................... Mariposa.
Antonia F. Pedreira ........... .40th . .. ............... Merced.
Guy P. Doyle .......... . .....• .41st .. . ............. .. Bishop.
James C. Pottle ............... .42d .................. Fresno.
Fred M. Velie .................. 43d .................. Porterville.
Hamer I. Tupman ............. .44th ................ , .Bakersfield.
Myron H. Brooks ............. .45th .. . ............... Paso Robles.
Robert W. Earl. ... . ...... ·.... .46th . .. ............... Santa Maria.
David J. Reese ............... .47th .................. Ventura.
Charles H. Brown ............. .48th .................. Los Angeles.
Dana. R. Weller ............ . .. .49th . .. .... . .... . .... . Los Angeles.
John, H. Bean ................. 50th . . ................ Los Angeles.
Lemuel L. Test ................ 51st ............. .. . .. Pasadena.
Joseph R. Garthside ............ 52d .. . ......... : . .... Pomona.
Albert P. Henry ... ; ............ 53d . . ... . ............ Downey.
Philip H. Krick ............... 54th ................ . . Anaheim.
Joseph B. Frith .... . ........... 55th .................. San Bernardino.
.George H. Kelsey ........•..... 56th .................. Riverside.
Edwin A. Woodard ... . ........ 57th .................. San Diego.
David H. Chaplin .......... . ... 58th ............. . .... El Centro.
Joshua D. Tucker .............. 59th .................. Honolulu, H. T.
Luther A. Renner .............. 60th .................. Manila, P. I.
Orel M. Goldaracena ..•.•.... Special· ...... : .......... San Francisco.
Louis Muller .. .. . •......... Special· ..............•.. San Franeisco.
Giovanni Scalmanini ........ Special ...•.............. San Francisco.
Daniel Cave .. . ............. Special ......•........... Los Angeles.

LIST OF INSPECTORS.
NAME

589

LIST OF INSPECTORS.

•

INDEX-1906.
A
AccouNTs-G>f the Grand Secretary and Grand TreasurerRelative to ... . .......................... 371-375, 382-385, 476-478
ADDRESS-Of the Grand Master-Report on-Relative to ....
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 188-224, 413-415
ALPHAE:E'rICAI. LIST oF LODGES ................... . .... : . .. : ... 514-521
ALPHAEETICAL LIST Ol' LoCATION OF LoDGES .. . . ....... .. ... .. . . 522-529
ALLOWANCES-To Representatives of Lodges-~elative to . .427-434, 470
AMENDMENTS-To By-Laws of Sundry Lodges-Relative to .... 193, 381
AMENDMENTS TO CoNSTITU'!)ION-Relative to . . ... 219,,220, 465, 466, 499
AMENDMENT To GEN. REGULATION No. 57 .... . .... . . . ... . .413, 466, 499
ANCHOR LODGE-Censured ..... . .. . .. .. ............... .. .... ... . . .471
APPOINTMENT-Of Grand Officers ........... . ..................... 482
of committees and to fill vacancies .. .. , . . ... . . . : ... . . . 187, 224
APPROPRIATIONS-For Sundry Purposes-Relative to ........... .473-475
ATKINSON, ROBERT-Action of Lodge Reversed .. . . .... .. ... ... . . . . .472
ATTENDANcE-Of Delegates at this Communication-Relative to . ... 187
AUDITING COMMITTEE .. ... ... . . . .......... ... .. . . . ............ . . .411

B
BQARDS OF RELIEF-Masonic-Reports of-Relative to-Reports
on . ... .. ..... .. .... . .... .. ..... . ...... . .... 194, 217, 385-406, 473
BURNETT, THOMAS T .-New Trial Ordered ........ . .... . . . ..... . . .455
BY-L AWS OF LoDGES-Amendments to-Report of Committee
on .. . ... . . .... ..... .... ..... .. .. ..... .. ... ... ... ... . 381, 451-454

I

0

c

I.
•

CHARTERED LODGES-Number of. .. ... .. ..... . ..... . .......... . 379, 380
CHARTERS-Report of Committee on-Rel~tive to ......... 193, 410, 451
CIRCULAR-Bi-monthly-Relative to .... .... ... . . ........ ... . ... . . . .415
Co)ll:MITTEES APPOINTE)}-Regular, Standing and Special. .... .
. ., . .. . . .. .. ... .. .. ... ... . . . . .. . .. . . 187, 224, 371, 415, 439, 4P4, 483
COM,MITTEES REPORTF.)}-Rcgular and Standing. See N amcs of
Committees.
Special-On annual address of Grand Master . ... ,. .... . 413-415
On annual report of Grand Secretary . ..... . ........... 414, 4 lS
On annual report of Grand Lecturer .. . ... . .. . . . ....... 436-438
On Widows' and Orphans' Home ............ ... .".. .. .. .473
On petitions and applications-Reports on . ...... . ......... 464

ii

INDEX.

CONSTITUTING LODGES .. . .. . .... . ....... . .... . ........... 190, 478, 479
CORNER STONES-Laying of. . . ............................. . .. 191, 192
CORRESPONDENCE-Report oi Committee on-See Appendix.
·
CREDENTIALS-Reports of Committee on .... . ........... 345-366, 376-378

D
DECISIONS-Relative to .. ..... .......... .. ...... . . .... 201-2C7, 4fl-!0
DEDICATIONS ... ..... . ... . . . . ..................................... 192
D1sPl!NSATIONs~For New Lodges Issued-Relative to ...... ... 191, 379
Speciai-lssued for Sundry Purp.oses-Relative to .... 192, 193
DUES To .GRAND LoDGE....:.Relative to .... ..• .. .... ... .. ... .. . ... . 382, 383

E
ELF.cTION-Of Grand Officers-Relative to . .. . .. ... ........ .. .466, 481
ELEcTIVE GRAND OfllrCERS-Relative to-Expenses for Attendance ... . ... . .... . ...... ... ....... . . .. ...... ..... ..... .. . 468, 469
EuLCiGIES-Johnston and Rucker ....... . . ... ..... . ....... . . .. .. 444-450
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU ... .... .. ... ........ .. . ........ . . .... . .. 194-197
ExPENSEs-Of Grand Lecturer-Relative to ...... ...... .... ...... .473
EXPERT-On Books of Grand Secretary and Grand TreasurerReport of .. ... .. . ............. ... ..... ... ... : ...... . .. . .476, 477
On Books of Home-Report of. ... : . ............ . . .. . ... .478
ExPur.SIONs-Relative to-List affirmed .. .416-422, 454-458 471 472 536
'
'
'

INDEX.

iii

G
G1n:<ERAL R!LlEF FuN]}-Relat=ve to-Report of. .......... . . .. .
...................... 225-344, 383-385, 411-413, 435, 436, 464, 473
GoERITz, ROBERT E.-Lodge Action Reversed ................ . .... .419
GRAND L£cTURER-Annual Report of-Report of Committee on
.............. . . - . - ............... ... .. ... ....... 366-371, 436-438
GRAND LooGES-0£ the United States and British America-List
of . ........ .. . ...... . ...... . . . ... . . .... . ... .. . . ... .... ........ 530
GRAND MASTER-Annual Address of-Report of Committee on
. .. . ... ... ......... .. .. . . ... : .. .. ......• ....... . . 188-224, 413, 415
GRAND OFFICERS-Election, appointment and installation of. ... 481, 482
List of Elected since the organization of Grand Lodge . . 532-535
For the year commencing October, A. L. 5906 ..... .. ..... 184
GRAND ORATOR-Annual Oration of-Relative to .. . ........ 408, 440-444
GRAND. SECRETARY-Annual Report of-Report of Committee
en .. ... . . .. . ..... . ..... . ... • .................... 378-385, 414, 415
GRAND TREASURER-Relative to-Annual Report of-Report of
Committee on ...... ... ................... . . .. ... 371-375, 476-478
GREENLEAF, GEO. T.-Relative to ....... .. ... ..... .. ............ . . .471
GRIEVANCES- Reports of Committee on ... ... .416-422, 454-458, 471, 472

H
HoMl!:.::...At Decato-Relative to . . .. . . . .......... .. 212, 213, 439, 475, 478
HoME-At San Gabriel-Relative to . .. . .... ... ... . . .. ..... 213-217, 439

F

I

FINANCES-Reports of Committees on-On Books, Etc., Grand
Secretary and Grand Treasurer . ..... . .. ...... ..... ..... .476, 477
On Appropriations for salaries of Grand Officers and
Expenses of Grand Lecturer ... . ........... .. _. .. ...... .473
On Appropriation.s for the Several Boards of Relief. . .... . .473
On Appropriations for Attendance of the Elective
Grand Officers . .. .. ....... . . ... .. . .. . ..... . .. .. ... 468 4l9
On Appropriation for Past Grand Master's P ortrait. . . ... : .475
On Masonic Widows' and. Orphans' H ome . ..... . ... .475, 478
On Board of Relief at Manila .............. ... .. . .. . .473, 474
On General Board of Relief. ............ . ...... .. .. . .... .473
On Representative Manila Lodge . . . ............. .. ....... .474
On Committee on Accommodation .. . : . . . ..... . . . . . . ... ... .474
On ixpense Deputy Grand Master . . . ...... . . ........ .. . . .474
On Ge9. W ashington Lodge ...... . ... .. .. . . . ........ .474, 475
On La P a rfaite Union Lodge . ... . .. .... . .... ............ .475
On Rent Cavalry Church ....... ... ............... : .... . . .479
FORli!GN GRAND LODGES . . . ... . ............ .. . . ...... . . . .. . ........ 531

INSP£CTO&s-Of Masonic Districts-Relative to ........ 367-369, 437, 479
INSTALLATION .......... ... .. .... . ....................... . ... .. .. 482
INVESTIGATING CoMMI'l'TEEs-Relative to Reports of. . ....... . ....... 464
loN!c LoOGE-Relative to . ... ..... ... ............ ..... .... 381, 410, 411

J
]URISI'RUM:NCE-Reports of Committee on
Relative to Dispensations issued ... .... .... .. ............ .459
Relative to Aged Members ... . .. ..... ....... .. .. .. .. • 407, 460
Relative to Past Masters . .. . ....... ... ......... . . . ........ 461
Relative to Membership . .. . ......... . ... . . ... ... . ... 462, 463
Relative to Wine at Banquets . . .... ......... ... .... . . ..... 463
Relative to Amendments to Constitution ............ . .. 465, 466
Relative to Wardens of Lodges . ....• .. ....• . .. •........... 480
Relative to Decisions of Grand Master .. .•.• . . . .... .. .. 461-463
Relative to Grand Representatives ......... .• . ....... .. .... 460
Relative to Committees of Investigation ... .... ...... . . .. . 464

iv

v

INDEX.

INDEX.

L

REPRESENTAT"ION-In the Grand Lodge-Relative to .. . ... . .. ........ 187
REPRESENTATIVE FUND-Relative to Dues for Account of .. .. ... . . .. .470
REPRESENTATIVES-To and from Grand Lodge-Relative to ......... 460
RETURNS-Report of Committee on . .. .. ...... .. .............. .423-435
RosTER OF LoocEs-Relative to ..• .. ... . .. . .. .... ·: ............. '2fJ0-415

LIFE MEMBERSHIP . .. ' ............................. . ... ....... '2fJ7-212
LoDGES, CONSTITUTED . ....... ..... ....................... 190, 478, 479
LoocEs-Chartered this year-Statistical tables-Alphabetical
list of .... .. ..... . . . ....... .... . ..... .......... .. . .. 484, 500, 521
LoocEs-Number of in Jurisdiction . .......... . ... . : .......... 379, 380
LIST OF MEMBERS-Relative to ............... ·................. 200, 415

M
MANILA Looc1t-Relative to B. of R. of. ........... .. 407, 408, 473, 474
MEMBERSHIP-Total in Jurisdiction-Relative to ........ . . . .. :379, 380
MouRNING PAGES-In memory of Past Masters of Jurisdiction
Deceased ............ .. .... ... . . ... . . .... ..... . .. .... . . '. .493-498
MuGRIDCE, CHARLES F.-New Tl'ial Ordered ..... .... . ... ..... . .. . .420

s
SALARIES-Of Grand Officers-Relative to .......... . .............. .473
SISSON LoDCE~Censured ........ .. ...... .. .......... . ............ .471
SPECIAL CoMr,;umcATIONS ... . ... ... ..... . ... . .... . ..... ..... 191, 192
SPECIAL DISPENSATIONS-Issued by the Grand Master-Relative
to ............. . . .. ......... .. ....... . ......... . .. . ..... 192, 193
STATISTICAL TAELES-Of Returns of Lodges for the year, etc . . . . 500-513

T
N
NECROLOGY .. . ........ . ... . ... . .. .... .. ..... ..... .... 189; 190, 493-498

0
ORATION-Relative to .............. ... ................... 408, 440-444

p
PAST" MASTERS-Relative to .................. . ' ........... 461, 493-498
PAY OF MEMBERS-Report of Committee on-Allowances by
Committee ... . ........................... .. .... .. ... ..... 468-471
PER CAPITA TAx-Relative to ........ ....... . ... . ..... . ... .. . .. ... 475
PETITIONS AND APPLICATIONS-Reports of Committee on ............ 464
PHILIPPINES-Masonry in-Relative to .. 217, 218, 222, 407, 408, 439, 482
PORTRAIT OF RETIRING GRAND MASTER-Relative to ......... ...... . .475
PRESENTATION-Of Testimonial to Retiring Grand Master .......... 483
PROCEEDINGS-Relative to Publication of. ............. ... . 200, '2fJ1, 415

R
RECEIPTS-By the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer-Relative to ............................. . ..................... 371-385
REDLANDS LoocE-Censured ....... .. ................. .. . ..... . .. .471
RELIEF FUND-Report of. ..................................... 225-344
REGALIA~Relative to .................................... ........ 193
REPORTS-Of Regular, Standing and Special Committees-See
"Committees Reported."
·
·
Of the Grand Secretary-Report of Com. on .. 378-385, 414, 415
Of the Grand Treasurer ............... .. .. ... 371-375, · 476-478
Of the Grand Lecturer-Report of Com. on .... 366-371, 436-438.
Of the Home Trustees . .... . .... .............. -. . .. .....•.. 38S°

TEMPJ.E-New Masonic-Relative to ... 197-200, 408, 409, 415, 439, 467, 468
TESTIMONIAL-To Past Grand Master-Relative to .. ....... . . . ..... 483
THANKS-Of Grand Lodge . ...... .... . . .. ..... ... . .... .. 224, 444, 479
TRIAL RECORDS-Transcripts of-Relative to . . ...................... 380
TRUSTEES MASONIC Wmows' AND ORPHANS' HoME-Appoint~ent of-Relative to .................................... .439, 483

v
v ACANCIES-Appointments to fill . . . ..... ... ........ . .......... . ... 187

w
WARm'.NS OF LoDGEs-Relative to .......... . ..... .. . ... .. . ........ 480

INDEX-1907.
A
AccouNTs-Of the Grand Secretary and Grand TreasurerRelative to .... . ......... .. ... . ............... . . 614-621, 715-723
ADDREss-Of the Gr. Master-Report on-Relative to .. 560-607, 676, 677
ADVANCEMl':NT-Objection to ...... . . . . . . . .. . ...... .. ... 598, 599, 681
ALPHAEETICAL LrsT oF LODGES ........................ . .. . .... . 764-771
ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LOCATION OF LoDGES ....... . .......... . . 772-779
·ALLOWANCES-To Representatives of Lodges-Relative to .. 668-675, 726
Al\ll!:ND~ENTs-To By"Laws· of sundry Lodges-Relative to ........ 611
AMEN1l.MENTS To CoNSTITUTJON-Relative to .......... 705, 715, 747, 748
AMENDMENT TO GENERAL REGULATION No. 21 ....... . .. . ... 705, 706, 748
ANDERSON'S MANUAL-Relative to revision of. .... . .. .. .. ·: . . . 712, 728
APPOINTMENT-Of Grand Officers .. .................... . ..... 543, 729
Of Corns. and to fill vacancies .... 543, 607, 697, 729, 730
APPROPRIATIONS-For sundry purposes-Relative to ... . 710, 716-719, 728
AT~INSON, JOHN MARSHAL-Suspension of affirmed ............... 686
ATTP:NDANCE-Of Delegates at this Communication .. . .. . . . ......... 730
AumTING CoMMITTEil-Report of. . . .. .. . .. ..... .. ..... . . ... . 650, 730
ArnucHMENT-Relative to ..... . . ... . . .. ........ .. .. . . . . 598, 714, 715

B
BOARDS OF RELIEF-Reports of-Relative to-Reports on ..... .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 566-588, 623-650, 716, 723
BRADfORD, WALTER W.-Relative to ................. .. .. . ...... 707-710
BRESZtE, HUGH S.-Relative to .... . ..... . ....... . .. . ..... . ... 710-712
Bv-LAws o:t' LoDGEs-Amendments to-Report of Committee
on ............................. . ......... . ........... 611, 692"695

c

CHARTERED LoDGEs-Nu~ber of. .............................. 609, 730
CHARTERS;-Report of Committee on-Relative to ...... 609-610, 692, 730
COGGINS, CHARLES W.-Relative to ... . ........ . .. . ........... 711, 712
Co:MMITTEJlS APPOINTED-Regular, Standing and Special. ..... .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 543, 607, 697, 729, 730

ii

INDEX.
INDEX.

COMMITTEES REPORTED-Regular and Standing-See Names of

Cvmmitters.
Special-On Annual Address of Grand Master . ... .. . . 676, 677
On Annual Report of Grand Secretary . ....... . .. 677
On Annual Report of Grand Lecturer .... . .. 726, 727
On Widows' and Orphans' Home ... . . . ... . .... . . 650
On Petitions and Applications-Reports on . . . .. .. 713
CONSTITUTING LoDGES .. .. .... .. ... .. .. . .. . .. . ........... . . .. 608, tcJ9
CREDENTIALS-Reports of Committee on . .. . .. . ..... ... 544-560, 622, 678

D
DECISIONS_..:Relative to ... . . ... ... .. . ....... . . . ...... . 593-599, 681-684
DINUBA LoDCE-Relative to .. ........ .... ..... .. . . ...... . ... . .... . 565
DISPENSATIONS-For new Lodges issued-Relative to .. . ........ . . .. 609
Special-Issued for sundry purposes-Relative
to .................... .. ....... 6C9, 612, 613, 685
DuEs To GRAND LoDGF.-Relative to . . . .. .. . : .. . ....... .. .... . . 613, 726
DURANT LoDCE-Relative t o .. .. .. . ...... ... . . . . ...... . ...... . '. .... 678

E
ELECTION-Of Grand Officers-Relative to . . . . . .. . . ... . ... . .... .. .. 728
ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS-Relative to-Expenses for Attendance ........... . . . .... . .. .. ....... .. ...... .. .... ... . . 724, 782-785
ExPENSES-Of Grand Lecturer-Relative to ... . . . . . . . . . . ......... . 716
ExPERT-On books of Grand Secretary and Grand TreasurerReport of . ... .. .... . ......... .. ..... . ............ . ...... 720-722
On books of Home-Report cif .... .. ......... . ..... . ... . 722
E.xPULSIONs-Relative t o-List affirmed . ........ .. . .... . . . 610, 611, 749

iii

On New Temple Fund .... . . . .. . ................... . ..... 719
On Home at San Gabriel. . . . . . . . . ... . . . .. . ... . ..... . . 716, 717
On claim of Excelsior Lodge .... . ....... . . . ..... .. ....... 717
On expenses of Grand Master Hart ........ . ....... . .. . ... 728
On printing revised edition Manual. ........... , .. . ....... 728
FoRtIGN GRAND LoDGF.s ...... . .. . . . .. .. ....... . ..... . .. . .... . .. . .. 781

G
GARDENA LoDCF.-Relative to-Jurisdiction of. . .. . . .. . . 594-596, 683, 684
GENEl~AL RELIF.~' FuNo-Relative to-Report of. .. ...... . . . . . .. . 566-588
GENERAL REGUI,ATIONs-Relative to ... .. .. . .. . .... . .. 705, 7C<i, 707, 748
GoERITZ, RoIERT £ .-Lodge action affirmed .. ... . . . .. . . .. ... . . .. .. . . 686
GRAND LECTURER-Annual Report of-Report of Committet! on
. .. .. . . .... . ... . . .. . . .. . ... . .... .. .... .. .... .. .. 695-697, 726, 727
GRAND l,oDCEs-Of the United States and British AmericaList of ...... . . . . . ..... . .......... . ............... .. ... ... ... 780
GRAND MASTl\R-Annual Address of-Report of Committee on
. .......... . ..... . . . . . . .. ..... ·. . ....... . ........ 560,-607, 676, 677
GRANO OFFICF.Rs-Election, appointment and installation of. . . . . 728, 729
List of elected since the organization of
Grand Lodge ... . .... . .. .... .. .. .. . .. .... 782-785
For the year commencing October, A. L. 5907 ..... 540
GRAND ORATOR-Annual oration of-Relative to .. .. . . ... . .. 692, 697-704
GRANJY StCRF.'l'ARY-Annual Report of-Report of Committee on
. .. . . .. . . ... ... . . . ... . . .. . ..... . . . ....... . . : ... . .... . 608-616, 677
GRAND TRF.ASUJU:R-Relative to-Annual Report of-Rep~rt of
Committee on . .. .... . ....... . ..... . ............ . . 617-621, 720-722
· GRl\ENLEAF, Gi;o. T .-Expulsion affirmed . . .. . .. . .. ... ........ .. .... 686
GRIEVANCES-Reports of Committee on . ..... . . .... .... 686~691, 707-712

F
F1GELEY, CHARLES McGILL-Relative to . .......... . .... . . ... .. ... . . 691
FINANCES-Report cf Committee e n-On Books, etc., Grand
Secretary and Grand Treasurer . ..... .. . . . . ... . . . . ..... . . . 715-723
On appropriations for salaries of Grand Officers and
expenses of Granrl Lecturer ... ... ... . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 716
On appropriations for the several Boards of Relief . ... '.(16, 723
On appropriations for attendance of the elective Grand
Office rs ..... . . . . .. ..... . . ... .... . . ... .. .. . .. . . ... . .. 724
On appr~priation for Past Grand Master's P ortrait. .... . .. 718
On Masonic Widows' and Orphans' Home .... . ..... . .. . . . . 718
On Board of Relief at Manila ... . .......... .. . . ..... . . .. . 716
On General Board of Relief. . .. ... . ... .... . . .. . ....... 566-588
On Tuolumne Lodge ..... .. ..... . .. . .......... . ... . .. .. .. 718

H
HAMBURG-Grand Lodge of-Relative to . . .. . ...... . .... .. .... 613, 680
HoMi;_.:...At Decoto-Relative to ......... .. .. . .. .. . 599-601, 650, 718, 719
HoME-At San Gabriel-Relative to .... . . .. . .. ........... 679, 716, 717
H UBBARD, w Al TER-Relative to . . . ... ................ . ....... . 689, 690

.I
INSPECTORS-Of Masonic Districts-Relative to .. 602-606, 696, 724, 725
I NSTAI:LATION ........ . ............. . ...... . ....... . ...... . ...... 729
INVESTIGATING COMMITTEE-Relative to-Reports of ... 593, 594, 681, 713
loNIC LoDGE-Relative to .................................. . ...... 611

iv

INDEX.

INDEX.

1

PA v OF MEMBERS-Report of Committee on-Allowances by
Committee ...................................... 668-675, 723-726
PER CAPITA TAx-Relative to ................................. 718, 726
PETITIONS AND APPI.ICATIONs-Reports of Committee on ............ 713
PHILIPPINES-Masonry in-Relative to ........................ 704, 705
PoRTRAI'J'. oF RETIRING GRAND MASTER-Relative to ................. 718
PRAGER, SAMUEL-Relative to-Death of. .................. 562, 627-629
PRESENTATION-Of testimonial to retiring Grand Master ............ 729
PRINTING-Relative to .......................................... .,726

JoURDEN, JOSEPH DANIEL-Relative to ....... : ............. ' ... 687, 688
JURISPRUDENCE-Reports of Committee onRelative to Dispensations issued ........................... 685
Relative to Past Masters ............................. 683, 715
Relative to Amendments to Constitution .............. 705, 715
Relative to decisions of Grand Master ............. 681-684, 713
Relative to Committees of Investigation ................... 713
JURISPRUDENCE-Reports of Committee on-Continued.
Relative to Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan ............ 679, 680
Relative to Grand Lodge of Hamburg .................... 680
Relative to transfer of trials ......................... 680, 681
Relative to objection to advancement ...................... 681
·Relative to avouchment .........•............... 682, 714, 715
Relative to waiver of jurisdiction ......................... 682
Relative to anniversary date ............................. 683
Relative to Los Angeles Board of Relief. ............. 683, 684
Relative to General Regulation, No. 21. .................. . 706
Relative' to visiting Masonic Home ........................ 713

L
LIFE MEMBERSHIP ............................................... 611
LODGES CONSTITUTED ................................. ~· ....... 608, 609
LODGES-Chartered this year-Statistical tables-Alphabetical
list of ............................................... 730, 750-771
LoDGEs-Num'ber of in Jurisdiction ........................... 609, 730

M.
MANILA LoDGE-Relative to B. of R. of ........................... 716
MANUAL-Relative to revision of. ... : ......................... 712-728
MEMBERSHIP-Total in Jurisdiction-Relative to ............... 561, 609
MOURNING PAGES-In memory of Past Masters of Jurisdiction,
Deceased ................................................ 739-746

N
NECROLOGY ............... ".' ........................ 561-565, 739-746

0
ORATION-Relative to ..................................... 692, 697-704

p
p AST MASTERS-Relative to .............................. 599, 683, 715

v

R
RECEIPTS-By the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer-Relative to .......................................... 614-621, 731-738
RELIEF FUND-Report of ...................................... 566-588
REPORTS-Of Regular, Standing and Special Committees-See

"Committees Reported."
Of the Grand Secretary-Report of Committee on ....... .677
Of the Grand Treasurer ............................ 715, 723
Of the Grand Lecturer--Report of Committee on .... 726, 727
REPRESENTATION-In the Grand Lodge-Relative to ................. 730
REPRESENTATIVE FUND-Relative to dues for account of ............. 726
REPRESENTATIVES-To and from Grand Lodge-Relative to ......... 608
RETURNS-Report of Committee on ............................ 663-676

s
SALARIES-Of Grand Officers....:.Relative to ......................... 716
SASKATCHEWAN-Grand Lodge of-Relative to ............ 613, 679, 680
SPECIAL DISPENSATIONS-Issued by the Grand Master-Relative
to ............................................. 609, 612, 613, 685
STATISTICAL TABLES-Of Returns of Lodges for the Year, etc .... 750-763

T
TEMPLE-New Masonic-Relative to .................. 650-662, 663, 719
TESTIMONIAL-To Past Grand Master-Relative to ............. " .. 729
THANKS-Of Grand Lodge .............................. 608, 650, 704
TRANSFER OF TRIALS-Relative to ..................... 589-593, 680, 681
TRIAL R:EcoRDs-Transcripts of-Relative to ... 610, 611, 686-691, 707-712
TuusTEES MASONIC Wrnows' AND ORPHANS' HOME-Appointment of-Relative to ......................................... 730

vi

INDEX.

v
Vi..cANCI£s-Appointments to fill.. .................... . . . .... . .... 543
VouCHMENT-Relative to ............ . ................... 598, 714, 715
VISITS oF GRAND MASTER-Relative to .............•........... 601-606

w
WAJVER OF }URJSDIC'PION-Relative to ........... .... ... . ....... 597, 682

