'

/5' rr u .~/!__,. ~ /~,f;
r._y:;
nr .,/I'd.
·~er- ~ h1a4~
. . , . I" fl ... tru' /?a-y
,'- ~'
'

~J5
'

•

I

..···)

j

, .I
~

{ :'
.
~

\

I~
(

I

./

Ir

•, ..

• •

I

,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS
011' THE

GRAND LODGE
011' THlli

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
VOLUME

III.

1857 AND

1858_

•

To the M.ason\e "Fratern\t~ .\n Ca.\\forn\a ~
IN obedience to an order of the Grand Lodge of this· State, pas~cd
May 14th, A. L. 5858, the third volume of its proceedings, embracing
the transactions of the years 5857 and 5858, is now bound in a manner uniform with the preceding ones, and presented for the use 1Jf the
Lodges and brethren. A new and copious index has been prepared ;
and as no labor ha~ been spared, either in the original preparation of
the matter for and its progress through tlie press, or in the superintendence of its present arrangement, it is hoped that it may meet the
approbation of the Craft, and be deemed worthy the high position
which the Grand Lodge of California now occupies among the similar
bodies of the world.
If this method of perpetuat.ilig our records be continued, it is
scarcely possible that the history Gf Masonry in this State can become
obliterated or obscure. Jlew, if aay, of the Grand Lodges now e:r.isting, can present such a series of p11blications : and the undersigned
feels a double pleasure in having originated the present system for preserving the annals of Masonry here, and in having thus far been so
well supported by the Grand J.oodge in carrying it into effect.

ALEX. G. ABELL,
Grand Sem-etary.
8AN FRANCISCO, Ju.nf, A. I,. 5858.

•

QDrnnll 1J:o{lge of ~nlifotnia.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.
T, Au:x.rnmm G. AnEr.r., Gmml Secretary of the M.-. W.·. Grnml Lodge of

Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do hereby certify that the
Journal of Proceedings of the Grand Lodge at its Eighth Annual
Communication, held at Sacramento in May, A. L. 5857, • •..•

1 to 129

Amendments to the Constitution, Standing Resolutions, and Regule.tions fol" Trials, and proposed new Constitution submitted in
May, A. L. 5857, . ...••. ... ... .. .... .. .•. ... ....••. . ..... . 130 to 150
Returns of the Subordinate LQdges, complete, to March 4th, A. L.

following pageRcontain a true 1md faithful transcript of the proceedin~R of thnt
holly at itR eighth Annnal Communication, commenced at the City ofSacrnmrnto
on Tuesday, tl1e twelfth d11y of ]!fay, A. L. 58ii7, and of the retnrnR of thr Rubonlinate· LodgeR 11nd other matters Anthorizco t.o be pnbliRhed.

5857,. ...•.... . .... . .•................•............•.•• . 151 to 213

Jn W:estimon~ ltll)crrof,

Statistical Tables, Record of Expulsions and Suspensions, Lists of
Grand Officers, and Registry of Grand Lodges, for the year
A. L. 5857,.. . • • . . . . . • . . . • • • • . • . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . • . • . • . . 214 to 220

ham hereunto 1\)lp<>n<lrd my
oflicial signature, 11ml h11vr 11.tlilw1l

Journal of Proceedings of the Grand Lodge, at its Ninth Annual Communication, held at Sacramento in May, A. L. 5858, ....••.•• 220 to 358

the ~eal of the Grano Lo<li,rc of tilt'

Constitution, By-Laws, Regulations for Trials, and Standing Resolu~
· tions of the Grand Lodge,. • • • • • . . . • . . .. . .. .. .. .. .. • .. .. .. 359 to 374

State of California, at thr office of
the Grand Secretary in th!' City of

.Returns of the Subordinate Lodges, complete, to March 4th, A. L.
Fnn l''rancisco, thiR fiftPrnth d11y of

5858, •..••......• •• •.••.•.• .... ... • •.••.• .. ....•.•...... 375 to 450

Record of Expuleions and Suspensions, Statistical Tables, Lists of
Grand Officers, and Registry of Grand Lodges, for the year
A. L. 1i858, ... . ; ................. .... .... .. .............. 451 to '57

.Tum', A. L. ii857.

~
~-d:~--, ~

(,.-----................_______/

PROCEEDINGS
O~'

THE

M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
Oli'

STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
AT

Tl.IE

ElGllTfl:l ANNTI AL COM.M.TINICATflON,
HELD

.4.T

'~pr JUnBnnir Enll, in tpr (j])if~ nf ~ntrnmrntn ;
COMMENCED ON

TU"ESD.A. Y, JY.[.A. y

12TH, .A.. D

1ee;7, .A.. L. e;ee;7,

AND '.l'l!:RMINATl!:D ON

l110NDAY, JlIAY 18'l'H, A, D. HWf, A, L, 5!i:i7,

®rbmb in bt ~tab In all tf)t :tnbgu.

SAN

FRANCISCO:

Fl<ANJ; EASTMAN, PRINTER, WASHINGTON !TREET, OPPOSITE THE POST OnJCE.

18 5 7.

GRAND LODGE

GRAND OFFICERS

0 t'

$ttt llttb acctpttb masons
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

0 P TU I!:

I•'OR THE YEAR COMMENCING MAY, A. L. 585i.

STA.TE OF CALIFORNIA.
~

EIGHTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.

,lf.-. W:.N. GREENE CURTIS, ... GRAN11 MAsnJR,. ..•.•.... 8<1crai11e.11to;
R:. TV:.CHARLES MARSH,. .... DEPU'rY G1tAN1> MAHTE!t,. .Nevada;
"· " AARON D. PARK,. ..... SENIOR GRAND WARDEN,. . . Diamond Springs;
' ~ " JOHN B. BOPE, ... ..... JUNIOR GRL~D WARDEN, . . . F()J"e,st City~·
'' '' ADDISON MARTIN, . .... GRAND TREASURER, ....•. . San Francisco;
" " ALEX. G. ABELL, ...... GRAND SECRETARY, ...... . San Francisco;
RM.~ W.-.0. C. WHEELER,. .... ... GRAND CHAPLAI1',. .. . . . .. Sacramento;
" JAMES W. CLA1BORNE,.G1tAND ORATOR,•. ..... .. . Jamut<rwn;
" LAWRENCE C. OWEN ... Ass·r. GRAND SECRETARY,..San Franr:isco;
" THOMAS M. REED, . . ... GRAND MARSHA.I.,. ....... . Coloma;
" EDGAR BOGARDUS,. .. GRAND STANDARD BEARER,. Indian Diggings;
" JOSEPH TYSON,. ...... GRAND SWORD BEARER,. . . . Yreka;
" GEORGE C. YOUNT, ... GRANDBIBLE BEARE1t,. ... Napa;
'· JOSEPH DE BELL,. •... SENIOR GRAND DEACON, .. . MaryttVille;
" n. NEWMAN,. ...•.•.... Jui.."IOR GRAND DEACON,. . . Petaluma;
,; E. LANE,. .............. }
I Rabbit Oreek ;
" J • s• BLACKWELL ,..... GRANJJ STEW.UlDS,. ... )t Mi'innesoa,
t .
" HENRY L. DAVIS,. ..... GRAND ORGANIST,. ....•.. San F'ranmsco ;
'' I<'. C. ANDREW, .. . .. . ... GRAND PuRSUIVA.NT,. ..... . Stockton;
" 0. D. CHAFEE, . .. . , .. . . GRAND TYLEit,. • ..... ... . Sacramento.

The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free und Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its }Jighth Annual Communication nt the Masonic Hall, in the City of Sacramento, on Tuesday, the
twelfth day of May, A. L. 5857, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Upon calling the roll of members, there were found present the following: GRAND on'ICERS:
The N:. W:. WM. H. IIOWARD, ..................... Grand Maatei·;
R:. W:-. ,J, A. RAYMOND 1............................. D~uty Grand Master;
" " P. )V. RANDLE, ......... ...................Junior Grand Warden;
"
"
ADDISOll MARTIN, .......................... Grand 'Jlreasurer;
'' " ALEX. G. ABELI.1........................... Grand Secretary;
llev.andW:'. 0. C. WrruLER,. ........................... Grand Ohaplain;
'' ,JouN F. MORSE, ............................. Grand Orator;
" L. C. OWEN, ............................... .. Asst. Grand Secretary;
"
CHARLES MARSH, ........................... Grand Marshal;
" II. G. BROWN, ........................... } Grand Stewards;

.J.B. BUKER, ............................ .

''

H. I". DAVJs, ... :... , ......................... Grand Or,qanist;

''

0. D. CHAFBE, .....••..••.•.•••.•...•••..•..• Grand Tljler.

l'AST ORA.ND OFFICERS:
The M:. W:, ,Joull A. TuTT, ........................ Past Grand Master;
R:. W:·. 'l'. A. 'rHOMA.S,. ....................... Past Deputy Grand Master;
"
" N. GREENE CURTIS, ...... ........... Past Deputy Grand Master;
" "
ADOLPHUS HoLLUB1....... ........... Past Senior Grand Wardm;
" '' J . R. CRANDALL, ..................... •Past Senior Grand Warden;
,; '' RICHARD F. KNoTT, .................. Past Junior Grand Warden;

And :the representatives of sixty-nine chartered Lodges1 together
with a large number of Past Masters entitled to seats.

(j

JOURNAL OJ' PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

The Grand Master filled the vacant stations and places by the following appointments, pro tempore: The R:. W.-. ArioLPHUS HoLLUB, as ................ Senior Grand Warden·
W.·. J. JuDsoN AMES, as........ ............ Grand Standard Bear~r ·
" Taos. P. HAWLEY, as .................. Grand Sword Bearer · '
" E. S. RuGGLEs, as ....................... Grand Bible Bearer;'
" E. \V. POTTER, as ....................... &nior Grand Deacon;
" H.F. WILLIAMS, as .................... .Junior Grand Deacon·
" J. G. HUFF, as ................ .'.......... Grand Pursuivant. '

There being a sufficient representation, the Grand Lodge of California was opened in '.1\mplt~ .form, with prayer by the Grand ,Chaplain.
The reading of the proceedings at the last Annual Communication
was dispensed with, the members being furnished with printed copies
thereof.
The Grand Master announced the following committee On Oredentials,... . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .

l

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock, this afternoon.

Jn Q5ranb !obge.
}

T1wsday, May 12th, .A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. l\I., the Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. A. MARTIN, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the
following officers and representatives . of chartered Lodges, · and Past
Masters holding membership within this jurisdiction, as present and
entitled to seats in the Grand Lodge, viz. : from
ALu. G. ADELL, Worshipful Master and P. ?ti.:
HENRY F. W1LLU.111s, Senior Warden;
.
•
BENJ. II. FREEMAN, Junior Warden;
Califorma, No,. ............ lRlCIIARD F. KNOTT,)
JOHN D. CREJGB,
l
LEWIS PECK,
I Past Master~.
LUTHER T. WILSON,)

r

GRAND LODGE o:ii CALitoRNiA.

1

JosEPH !sues, Worshipful Master;
M. H. MYRICK, proxy for Junior Warden;
{ J. A. RAYMOND, Past Master.
A. T. NELSON, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
J. H. CuLVER, Senior Warden ;
C. M. CORNELL, Junior Warden;
Tehama,. ..........No.
JoBN A. Tu TT, }
T. A. THOMAS,
Past Masters.
JoHN F. MonsE,
0. D. CHAFEE,
ADOLPHUS HoL1,uB, Worshipful Master and P.M.;
San Francisco, .... No. 7,... J. J. PAPY, Past Master and proxy for J. W.;
{ ADDISON MARTIN, Past Master.

Western Star, .... No. 2,...

3,...

I

'l\wlumne,. ........ No.8,. ..... W. W. 'l.'RAYLOR, Past Master.
J. R. TOTMAN, Senior Warden;
,l[a1'Ysville, .... ..No. 9,... { p, w. RANDLE, Past Master.
JOHN B. IIEWBON, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
ivrn Jose, ......... No. 10... R. W. DAVIS, proxy for Senior Warden;
{ W. H. HowARD, Past Master.

J'inrnt,. ........... No.12, ...... JAMES M. WILSON, Representative.
THos. P. HAWLEY, Worshipful Master·
Nevada,. ......... No. 13,... Taos. H. CASWEJ,L, proxy for Senior Warden;
{ WlI. G. ALBAN, Past Master.

Bro. A. Martin,
'· R. F. Knott,
" H. G. Brown,
" A. T. Nelson,
" J. S. Blackwell:

AFTERNOON SESSION,

5857.j

Em·eka, ........... No. 16, ......J. R. CRANDALi,, Worshipful Master and P. M.
.
r.
{ H. G. BROWN, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Mrmnta1nSltade,llo. l~,... E. c. So'DTBWORTH, proxy for Junior Warden.
E. M. HowrsoN, J. W. and proxy for W. M.;
Sri 11 Joaquin, ... No. 19,... J. B. KENNEDY, proxy for Senior Warden;
{ F. C. AKDREW, l'ast Master.
N. GREENE CURTIS, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
.
H. C. lIARRtsoN, Senior Warden;
Wa.,hmgton,. ....No. 20,... L. W. FERRIS, Junior Warden;
{
.
Isuo DAvis, Past ~foster.

Hawaiian ....... No. 21,. ...... ALEX. G. A»EI.L, Representative.
{JoBll P. MoLAUGllLIN, Junior Warden;
.
Jfa,dison,. ........ No. 23,... o. Ii. Drnst,E, Past Master.
.
JAB. Z. KELLY, Worshipful Master;
Georgetown,. .....No. 25,... JOHN B. HARDEN1 Senior Warden;
{ JOHN C. SIMPSON, Ju~ior Warden.
'
WM. A. JANUARY, Worshipful Master;
RI Dorado,. .....No. 26, ...' { J. B. BUKER, Past Master.
'Jh'.nity, ........... No. 27,......JoHN C. BuRcu, Junior Warden.
JAB. A. JAouoN, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Col11m.b1'.a, .......No. 28,.... { JAB. W. COFFROTH, proxy for Senior " rardeJI.
JC. F. IRWIN, Wor!lhipful Master;
·
.·
.
,
· E. H. Ev ANS, Senior Warden ;
Diamond,. ....... No. 29, ... lW. W. R1soN, Junior Warden;
A. D. P ARit, Past Master.

8

ZOtTBNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[.May,

Gouun Ga~, ....No. 30.......L. C. Own, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Mokelumne1...... No. 31, ...... J. L. WILKINS, Worshipful Master.
.

Gold Hill, ........No. 32,...

{ J, B. HENDERSON, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
J, A. BoND, proxy for Senior Warden.

San ])i,ego, ...... No. 35,. .....J, JuDSON AMES, Representative.

Butte,.............No. 36, ......E. S. Ruoor.Es, Past Master and Representative.
St. John'a, .......No. 37, ......JosEPH TvsoN1 Worshipful Master and P. M.
Yuba, .............No. 39, ...... Jos.EPH DE BELL, Worshipful Master.
Sa~amento, .....No. 40,...... W. F. KNox, Worshipful Master.

Martinez, ......... No. 41, ......W. H. BucKLEY, Junior Warden.
Hiram, .... ....... No. 43,...
ir.

ir

•

Ni.

, ...l. moriaii,...... o. 44,...
7

CHAS. MEREDITH, W ors1{V:ful Master ;
DARWIN CHASE, Senior arden ;
{ 0. B. WESTCOTT, Past Master.

{ P. W. SHEPHEARD, Worshipful Masterand P. l\I. ;
II. L. DAVIS, Senior Warden.

Crescent, ......... No. 451......D. C. LEWIS, proxy for Senior and Jun. Wardens.
Jfichigan City, ..No. 47, ......PHILIP_STONER, Representative.
Lebanon, ......... No. 49,. ..... JAcOB MAYER1 Past Master and Representath·e.
r,

Forbestown,. .....No. oO,...

{II. W. BnowN, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
DAVID McKEE, Junior Warden.

Rough&Ready, No.52, ...... J. K. SM1Tn, Worshipful Master.
St. James, ........No. 54,. .....JAs. W. CLAIBORNE, Past Master.
Volcano, .......... No. 56, ......W. Aun, Worshipful Master.
Santa Rosa, ..... No. 57, ...... JoHN G. HUFF, Worshipful Master.
.

Union,. ........... No. 58,...

{RICHARD D..t.LE, Senior Warden;
HARRIS DAVID, Junior Warden;
JESSE MoRRILL, Past Mnster.

Gravel Range,. ..No. 591...... WM. G. LocKwooD1 Worshipful Master.
Iowa Hill,. ....... l{o. 63,. .....GEo. JoH!ISTON, Worshipful Master and P. M.
,
{ Au·RED SPINKS, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Natoma, ......... No. 64,... MARCUS A. SAWTELLE, Junior Warden.
Amador, ......... No. 65, ......E. B. HARR.Is, Representative.
J oHN KmKP ATRICK1 Worshipful Master ;
Forest,. ...........No. 6 t:.,... { M. R. EVANS, Past Master.
.

Mmnesota, ....... No. 67,...

{ J. S. BLACKWELL, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
LEWIS GOODWIN, proxy for Senior 'Varden.

Momin,g Star, ... No. 68, ......C. B. PHEJ,rs, Worshipful Master.
E K K
M
· ' ane, ..... l 0 • 72,...
.

.

Tgio, .............. No. 7H,...

C. C. GREEN, Worshipful Master;
PETER McGLOIN, proxy for Senior Warden;
C. H. SEYMOUR,}
{
Past Masters.
C HAS. MARBlI1
{ 8. F. BENJAMIN, Worshipful Master nnd P. M.;
A. C. HINX:So:ti, Senior Warden.

~857.]

GRAND tODGE OF CAtll'ORNlA.

9

Wisconsin Hill,.No. 74, ...... W. 0. Rrcu, Worshipful Master.
.llount'n Foreat,.No. 75,......JJ.CQB A. EWALT, Worshipful "Master.
P~taluma, ........ No. 77,...... B. NEW.MAN, Worshipful Master.
Humboldt, .......No. 79,. .....8. G. W1nPPLE, Representative.
lone, .... ........... No. 80, ...... A. E. C..t.LLAWAY, Past Master.
.Mountain,. ....... No. 82,. .....C. GIL.MAN, Past Master and Representative.
Rising Star ..... No. 83 ... { J. W. HARVILLE, ~orshipful Master and P. M.;
'
'
J. M. MINER, .Tumor Warden.
IndianDiggings,No.85, ......E. BoGARDus, Past Master and Repseseutr.til·e.
St. L<Yuis, ........ No. 86, ..... :JOEL EvELAND, Worshipful Master.
Quitman ......... No. 88 ... {ANDREW HANNA, Worshipful .Master and P. M.;
'

'

W)r. C. 'Voon, proxy
for Semor 'Varden. .
.

Rose's Bar, ...... No. 89, ...... A. L . MORRISON, Senior 'Varden.
Acacia, ............ No. 92, ...... THOMAS M. REEn, Worshipful Masterand .I'. M.
,
Mt JI.
N
{WM. M. MILBURN, Worshi:pful Master;
" ermon, ..... 0 • 9 , ... DAVID 'f1THERINGTON1 Jumor Warden.
JI.

l

owan ,...... ...

Ni.0 96
{ E. W. POTTER, Worshipful Master ;
• • , ... . W. S. R. '1'..t.YLOR, Past M11.ster.

Je..fferson, ......... No. 97, ......E. Lt.NE, Worshipful Master and P . .M.
Quarlzburg, .....No. 98, ...... A. McNEIL, Representative.
Campo Seco, ... No. 100,...... J. M. HAVENS, Worshipful Master autl P. M.
Clay, .... ,....... No. 101, ......J. H. MONTGOMERY, Worshipful l\:Iaster and P. M,
Mi

1

·e

anza·m a,.....

N0 l0"
•

.,...

{WM. A. SEARB1 Worshipful Master;
H. A. GASTON, proxy for Junior Warden.

01·01,ille,. ........ No. 103,.... .. D. G. O'DONNELL, Representative.

'l'he foregoing report was received and concurred in, and the brethren therein named were admitted to seats.
'l'he Grand l\Iaster then delivered his AnnuR1 Address to the Urand
I~odge of California, as follows : BnETHllK."\" oP Tilt: lllosT WoRSHIPFUJ.

GRAND LoDGE o~· CALU' ORNIA : '£he time has again Mrived for me to ronder you uu account of my olHcial actM
for the Masonic ye·lll·,a.nd to offer for your consideration such suggestions us may
Reem calculated to promote the interests of the Craft, and secure its permanent
prosperity. Such of' my official acts as may be deemed of sufficient importanC(!
to engage your attention I will now endeavor to enumerate, aud will nt My time
hereafter afford such :idditional information as may be desired, so far as may lie
within my power.
Our acknowledgments are first due to our Supreme Grand Master for his protection during the past year, and for the many evidences which he has afforded us
of his superintending care. In the oblations which we have offered for bis acceptance, we have pledged ourselves to the promotion of thl\t peace und harmony which

to

JOURNAL OF PitOOEEl>INOS.

[May,
5857.)

we have besought him should pervade our councils; and let us not forget that he
will hold us iwcounta.ble for any act of ours which may be calculated to mar their
eftlcacy, and to introduce confusion and misrule. Let the general tenor of
our deportment be conducive to the legitimate purposes of our assemblage,
t o the eradication o~ evil, and to the attainment of good; and in their accomplishment let us see that our councils be chracterised by that prudent and deliberative action which seldom fails to result from an enlightened andjust course of
policy ; and above all, that they bear the impress of the ennobling virtues of forhearance and self-sacrifice, wherever they may be needed to promote peace and
harmony and secure the greatest amouut of good to the greatest number. Let us
bear these things in mind, my brethren,-tbat Masonry inculcates forbearance,
an<l rejoices in the doctrine of an expansirn charity; and let the line of our conduct
lie in accordance with these suggestions.
Another year has passed away. It has passed as the wind passeth, and like the
wind when the wings of the tempest have been spread and its power invoked, it
has left traces of its violence , while sweeping away the pestilential vapors that
hovered OYer it.s pathway. Would that itseYils bad all passed along with it, and
that thl.l good alone remained. Then might we not be called upon to deplore the
one, while coutemplating the other, as seen through the medium of past events,
aml the impress of their tracings upon . the lineaments of the developing future.
Another year has passed away. The sound of its whirl of stirring incident~
has tlied in lingering echoes beneath the mausoleum of ages. But its history baB
been written. 'fhe record of its changeless events bas been laid up in the world's
archives, to he brought forth when tbe day of retribution shall come- when tlie
myriad~ who have trodden the earth .shall be aroused from their deep slumbers when the juRt and the unjust, the oppret;Sed 11nd the oppressor, the murderer and
his victim, shllll stand face to face before a tribunal where iajusticc will find no
a!hocate ; where the yoke of the oppressor will lie broken beucath the feet of th~
oppre8sed ; where the baud of tho assnssin will be pRlsied and powerless forever ;
u.ntl there will be no leRgue of iniquity to shield the confederates of crime. With
the yt>ar that has passed, have gone 11lso t he loved and the lost ofour own number.
'f hcy have been but few, but many have lu.mented their fate. Who is there among
qs t nai docs not remember the familiar face of JACOB M. Fous~:? And who i•
there that ever knew, and did not love him ? Others too, whose 1mmes 11re written upon the tablets of our hearts, have trodden the rnlley of the shadow of death
~ince last we met. While on the one band the sih-er cord was gently loosed by
t.he hlight of disease, and the pitcher noii;elessly broken at the fount11in, on the
other, the Rand~ of lifo were rudely dashed from their shivered glass by the hand
of violence, 11nd the wheel was broken at the cist.ern ere the half of its evolution~
hud been made. May they rest in peace ; for their winter of death has pass1:d away,
and we luwe au abiding hope that they have awakened to newueAA of life, in the
g-enial warmth of tb11t bright and happy spirit-land whither they bai•e b'Onl'.
I am happy in being enabled to report t-0 you that the condition of the Cmft
throughout the jurisdiction is genernlly 8atisfactory, 11\though I regret to >':IY th11t
it is not wholly free from the operntion of ud n~rse intluences. Inst11nces have oc•mrred where itApeace and harmony have been disturbed by those who, in conse<11ience of their cleva~ed poRitions, Hhould have been tlieir principal couservatorK ;
and this is the more to be deplored, ns it is calculated to retlect the mor<> discredit
npon the institution.
'f he first of these to which I will direct attention, iH 11 difficulty which occurred
in July last between the prcs:diug ofticerA of SduJoaquin and MorningStar Lodges,
the lllt tcr being al~o an officer of tbiH Grnnd Lo<lge. The furme1· is charged with
lui.ving premedit1\ted unu 1uatle au asi;;mlt upon the laltt r with a ~tick, thereby
"('ve1·ely heating un<l brui~iJig him ; hut grr·tlt prurncat1on i• pleaded iu extenu11tion', he having, a,; he alleges, been gro~sly •lamlercd. I arniled myself of the l'llrliest
opportunity to im·estigate thiH <litlicuHy in Stockton, where it occurred, and upou
h;s own admission of luwiug made the 1tltack, l su~p~11ded the Master of Sun Jonquin Lodge from office. The ot her Brother being >tlJHent from the Staie, auii alw
ttn officer of this Grnnd Lodgi>, I thought it udl'i~111Jle that an im-estigation of the
•~uuses which led tu the u Unck should be <letil'N:u until his return, and bl! had aim
untler the immediate direction ·o f the Gmnd Lodg•:. 1 shall snlimit this Clllit' with-

llRAND LODGE OF OALU'Olf-NIA.

11

out further remark than an expression ofm;y deep mortification that such a difficulty
should have occurred. It is a s11d retlection that those to whom the Craft are taught
to look for counsel and advice, and example worthy of imitation, sh?uld them11elves fall out by the way, and by crimination on the one part, and physical aggref;11ion on the other, introduce contention and strife where peace and harmony shoultl
alone prevail.
The next case is that of the 'late Master of Caymus Lodge, No. 93, who was
charged with an act of unmasonic conduct, which it is not neceBBary here to mention. Upon·an invest~gation of the eharge, in his L?dge, which I visited f~r t~1~t
purpose, I suspended him from office ; . and have been mfor~ed that after the ~':Pl­
ration of bis term of office, he was tried and expelled by hts Lo~ge. In not1c~ng
his e,xpuliion by the Lodge, I would not be understood as ei:idorsmg the doct; u!e
that the right of expulsion lies in a subordinate Lodge, or 1s even shared by it 11~
common with the Grand Lodge. The latter alon~ can expel. 'Fhe .former Illa)'
declare such award of punishment, and although, m point of.fact 1t will. be .recommendatory only, It will properly operate as a suspension until the case ts disposed
of by the Grand Lodge.
Complaint bas been made to me also, against the course pursued by the memb:rs
of Rose's Bar Lodge. No. 89 in reference to a rejected applicant for the mysteries
of Masonry. I have been un~ble to obtain such positive testimony in relation to the
matter as would justify me in more than alluding to it; and would the~efore recommend that such documents as I have received, be referred to a comm1tee of in.v.estigation. With that view I have caused the Master of the Lodge to be , no~1fied
that its book of records would be required at the Grand Lodge for e;i.:ammat1on.
The next, and I aDI b11ppy to be able to state, th~ last case which has demanded
summary action on my J?art, is that of San Francisco Lodge, No. 7, the ~barter
of which I arrested. This I did in consequence of the want of harmony m that
body, as evidenced on and subsequent to the trial of one of. it~ ~embers.. It
would afford. me the most sincere pleasure to find that the d1sc1pl!nary action
necessarily had towards this Lodge has not been wh.olly lost upon its. m~mbers,
and that the discordant elements which have unhappily been at work m it, have
become harmonized, so as to render advisable 11 restoration of its Charter. I
could not otherwise recommend it.
.
Such documents as have come into my bands in reference to or connection
with the foregoing cases, I have placed in the bands of the Grnnd Secreta~y,
where they can be bad upon application, for the use of the Grand Lodge or its
committees. In sifting the evidence, and arriving at facts in matters of difference
when brought before a lllrge body f~r its considei'atio? and action1 11~d where an
appeal, whether inconsiderate or designed, to th~ passions and prejud1c;es of. men
might otherwise lead to hasty and immature act10n, the services .of an mte!ltgent
and discriminating committee are invaluable, and can seldom w1t.h propriety be
dispensed with. "Especially is this the case in ref~i;ince to a ~asomc. Body ~uch as
this where such committees 11rn not alone the fae1lttators of its speedy and 1mpartfal 'awards of justice, but t he conservators of its dignity and the guardians of its
peace and harmony. I would therefore r~commend.that the ~auscs. of ~omplaiot
herein enumerated, be referred to appropriate committees for m vest1&at10n, as has
heretofore been the cnstom of this Grand Lodge ; where they will doubtles~
receive every requisite and proper attention, and be put in the most advisable
shape for calm and considerate iwt.ion. There is no good and true Mason but will
second the laudable endeavors of 11committee to settle matters of difficulty quietly
and peacefully, and without an appeal ~o the P8;8Sions, eit.her to defe~t the ends of
justice, or to secure the award of un unjust PUf!lshment ; and sue~ will .bl'. equally
~low to avail themselves of anr, improper appliances to accomplish a stmtlar purpose. I regret much the necessity which impelled me to ~ummary 11ction in the matiers of diftlculty to which I have directed your attent ion. It would have been far
more agreeable to me to have passed them over unt il the meeting of th~ Grand
f,O<lge for its consideration rather than iny own, could I have done so with propriety: But the maintenance of order 11n4 good government demanded s!1mmary
action, and it wall therefore had. It is far from being pleasant to me to direct the
band of retributive Justice, when the blow is to fall on a brother's ·he11d, for I

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

am not amoug the number of those who would inflict a penalty for the sake of
its punishment alone. But as a surgeon would cauterize a wound to heal it,
or even sever 11 limb in his desire to save the body, so have I done, and so would
I do again should occasion require it.
In view of ~he fact that difficulties have arisen, of ri. nature calculated to
produce confusion, and even threaten the conservatism of the society, if not
frowned down by every good and true Mason, I would raise the voice of w11ruing against the impcndmg danger, lest in its serpentine windings the slime of itR
influence should ~ollute our sanctuaries, and render them flt habitations for
"every foul spirit.' It is our bounden duty to guard against the approach of every
improper influence, <,>f whatovcr nature or character, or from whatever source it
may spring. The conservatism of Masonry i~ necessary to its existence as well
as to its usefulness, and is one of the controlling principles of that assimilating
inftuenco by the operation of which it mon,ds the good and the true of all nation~
and climes into a common brotherhood, on the broad basis of universal fraternity;
and to subject it to the control of influences that would rob it of its distinctive
charncter, and narrow uown its affinities to the venal standaru of interest or prejudice, or subject them t~ the sway of unhallowed passion, or nnBQrupulous 11im~,
would be to tear the brightest gem from the crown of its glory, to destroy forewr
its usefulness, and to trail its dishonored banner in the dust.
I have already remarked that the general conditiorr of the craft seems
Mtisfnctory, and indicates that prosperity which has usually characterized our
jurisdiction. There have been numerous accessions to our ranks, both by affiliation and initiation; and the number of rejections would seem to indicate that
due precaution .has been exercised against the introduction of improper persons into
our Lodges. I must confess, however, that it is for more gratifying to me to contemplate a lengthened liRt of affiliation~, thun one of degrees conferred. However ip:atifying it may be, nnd is, to rccein uumrrous 11cceasious to our rank-,;
by imtiation, from 11mong those who are worthy and well qualified, it is far mor•·
gratifying to find brethren who have withdrawn from us, rcturnin¥ to the Lodge,
to enter again upon the di!lCharge of their duties, and afford practical evidence of
the sincerity of the profession which they ha.ve taken upon themselves. I would
rather bear of the affiliation of one worthy applicant, than of the initiation of a
,;core of candidates. It argues better for the safety and well being of the institution. There wa.s a time, it is said, when few except the good and true either sougbt
for or gained admission into llfasonlc Lodges, for it was thought. that such alone
could find their affinities there. Masons were then eomparatively few, and were
generally known and distinguished for those qualifications which the teachings of
the Order require on the part of all who apply for admission. They were not of
I.hose who sought admission into the Lodge to gain admission into eociety, through
~lasonic influence. They were not of those who would make merchandise of it~
benefits, by prostituting them to the purposes of individual emolument. They
were not of those who would seek, through Masonic appliances, to re-invigorate a
decaying r~putation, and gain a prominency within the Lodge that was unatt11in1ible without; or worse still, to use its influences to gain prominency elsewhere.
They were few, but" good men and true," anll practiced in the new hemisphere
the doctrines and teachings which they had inherited from their brethren of the
old. But the day of an unwonted prosperity came ; the spirit of innovation, whose
~light tracings had been visible in the old world, found a more extended field of
operations among the urcl~nt spirits ot the new. The honors of Masonry embraced
:i wider range than had been known to our ancient brethren, and in the pursuit of
t.hem, the principles and groundwork of Masonry were sometimes lost Bight of by
I.hose who run past the substance, to grllBp at a luminous shadow beyond. Ma~onry floated upon the tide of popular favor.
Its fancieu honors anu distinctions were coveted and eagerly sought nftcr, o.nd were sometimes acquired
by those who were not over scrupulous as to their use. The world saw that
they were desirable, and the world rnsheu to the t.hreshold of her temples, to
knock for admission into their courts. The brethren were fiattc.r ed by the numerous accessions to their ranks, and in contemplating the bright galaxy of stars that
gleamed upon her horizon, lost sight of the ignis-fatuus. creations of impure at-

0807.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

IS

mosphere which had been gathering around her altars. Lulled into a fancied seuurlty, the day of adversity came when least expected. The hand of the assassin
was raised in the circle ofherworshippers,and the torch of the incendiaryprepared
for the house of her habitation. The tide of popular fury was directed ago.illl!t
her temples, and the mercenary crowu who bad shouted hosannas to her name, rejoiced in contemplntion of the smouldering ruins. But there were those who for•ook her not in the hour of her trial, but stood by her fortunes until she emerged
f'rom Urn furnace of her persecutions. The tires of persecut ion had thinned her
rnnks, 1Jut they had left uo mark upon the body of her principles. They rcmain<'d pure and entire. Her ermine was unsullietl, her honor untarnished. Time
has flown rapidly since then. Its ever varying ·events have exhibited their
eountleflB changes, and the opinions of men in reference to Masonry have hud
their changes also. She has gained an unprecedented popullll'ity with the mn~~­
t'H.
The a!lmiring worlu is rushing to her alt1wF. The Just and the unjust, the
l'ill~e and the true, the man of good repute uud him of doubtful fume, h11ve
been trcadial!' her courts together, and doubts a rc being engendered 11s to what
will be the history of her future. How Rhall w<l avert the impending danger?
How remedy the evil which 1111 indiscriminate accession to our i:anks is threatonin"' to bring u)}on us ·1 There is but one method, and that is to do our duty,
mildly hut llrmly, anu without fear or favor. If lm1l men, or men of doubtful repute, apply. to us for u recommendation to the Lodge, let them he told that.
the Institution will not suit th1•ir h111.Jits or their tastes, and tl111t they cannot
expect to !ind enjoyml'nt where they can !ind no affinities to lead to it. As well
might Satan seek to linrl true enjoyment in Pnradi"e, llMfor 1111 unworthy man to
seek for it in a pure und well goYerned Lodge. Ile puuctnul in 11ttenu111Jcc upon the regular meetings of your Lodges, in order that no candidate may eHr be
batloted for without a white or black ball passing through your own hand ; 11nd
reject the applicant without hesitation, if there is the remotest doubt uK to his
character an<l standing, or if he is cleflcicnt in one single qualification, be it what
it may. We have the choice of the material of the world, nnd there is no exc111'<'
for working with that which is unfit, or even indifferent., when we have only to rcfnse to have anything to do with it to <'nsurc 11 plentiful ~upply of the best..
Unworthy men will upply far less frequently to our Lodges, whun tht>y learn that
t.here aru no aSBociatious within suited to their tMtc~, and thl\t the probabilitleR
are all in favor of the door being closed 11g&iust them.
If your brotlwr is acting unworthil7, and refuses your friendly ndmonition.
when given him in tl!P. required manner, 1t is your duty to report him to the llfo.~tcr
of the Lodge, who will cause the necc1Wtry stcpK to be tl\ken to puniKh hiK delln'lucncy, anu to prevent the Cmft trom being brought into disrepute. 1tfasonry
docs not require perfection, for that is unu.ttainable, lint ~hn docs require that her
votaricij Rhould he "good men and tr~e, " and "of good n:port;" othcrwiHe the Lo1lgc
HiJoulu enforce its discipline, and rid itself of their preHCllCt', ancl the ~ociety of
their baneful iutlucnce. We must purify our ranks by rid.ding them of mt•n of
had repute, or the firrH of persecution will sooner or later burHt forth 11gain und
purify them for ns. We must guard with increascu vigilance the doorH of our
Lodges ugt\inHt the admission of unworthy aucl nnqunliflc<l mun, 111111 benr in min<l
!.hut the security of Masonry, no lcRS than the " price of liherty, itt eternal Yigilancc."
CircumstanceK have tmnspired during the past year, which render it nu1·i~al.Jk
that I should once more allude to the so called '; Siuc Degrees" - thol!C fungous
attachments to l\fosonry, which have fastened to it~ body llR .i f they were 11
part aml pare~) of its exiKtence. Whether consiHting of mere idle ceremonies, or
really 11imin~ ut. usofulncss, thc,r arc c91!0.lly iuaumis.~ihle, either as JlfaRonic
tests, or as alfordmg the mel\nB of rccogmt1on to those who cannot he made i\fo!!llll8. If used UK MuFonic tests, they are an nccumalation 011 the !Jody of MRHonry,
and consequently an innovation; ancl be who would t.lrnK u•e tbcm wou ld sul(iect
himself to lliscipline for so evident an impropriety. [ f really Masonic, ns they
are generally, though improperly called, be who would confer them upon u. perHon who, agreeably to the laws of our society cannot be made a Mason, would
deserve oxpulsion for so gross a violation of those laws. Aud if aot Mawnic, aH

14

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

they .most assuredly are not, he' who confers them as such practices deception
and is guilty of cleceiving the unwary and confiding. Viewed in either light'
they are unworthy our consideration. There is a furor raging for new "lJef!ree& ,;
fresh from the manufsctory of aome innovater's brain, 1md generally as worth1,ess as their ceremonies are ridiculous and absurd. These and new ~ocieties arn
continually springing up, like mushrooms after an ApriJ shower, and some of
them are of so scandalously exceptionable I\ charooter as to surprise one that a
Mas()n who had been entangled in their meshes, should lead his irnweary brother to
a participation in their ceremonies. And yet Masons have done so, and some arc
fou!1d to whom onr ceremonies seemingly afford but little interest, and who complam of the length of the lectm·e, or slumber under its teachings, but are ever" wide
a.wake" for the eeremonie11 of some" side degree " which they have bl3en impat!ently.aw~lting. These evils certainly require to 'be corrected, and the chief cons1derat1on Ill connection therewith, is the manner in which it may be done. I should
<loubt the policy of attempting to strip the body of Masonry of its parasitical appendages by legislative enactments, ns it might be made to appear that we are gomg bey~nd th; pale of our authority; for however plausible the legitimacy of their
con!1ect1on with Ma!!Onry may appear, it is wholly wanting in point of fact-they
~avmg no connection with the Order whatever, save the self-a88umed one of bemg confined to Masons and certain of their female relatives.
The !110St ;ffectual modo of getting rid of them is by the use of those appliances which will be best calculated to correct our errors generally as they ~ill
alm?s~ all of' them be found to spring either directly or remotely' from the same
or s1m1lar causes-one of which I will mention. It is the lack of information of
a useru1 and valuable character, its absence being too frequently supplied by a
~urfc1t of ~bat which is worthless and deleterious. The remedy may be slo'l'I' in
!ts operation, :is. th.e field will ha'!'e to be cleared as well as occupied; but
it will be certam m its effect, and will do more towards restoring that healthv
tone of feeling 1rnd sentiment which pervaded the Craft in the days of it~
old fashioned, honest simplicity, than all the legislation that can be conceived
of, or attempte!1 to be carried into effect.. The lnw may make its exa«tions, and
thu~der forth. its anathemas, but they will be of little avail if the standard of
sept1ment which pervades the Ordet, falls below the standard of its requirements.
We must elevate the ono if we would give efficiency to the other. To accomplish
these things, we !11~st place means of information of a useful and unexceptionable ch~racter.w1thm the reach of all, by the establishment of Lodge Libraries,
~lle!1 with e~oice standard works; and by encouraging the dissemination of useful rnfor1!1at1011. among the brethren. We must strive to create a healthy tone
of ~I:;tsomc feelm(l' and sentiment, by instilling into their minds a fondness for the
leg!timate teaclungs .of Masonr;y, obe~ience ~o all its just requirements, and
a. distaste for the puenle cerflmomes of its spunous af pendages. We must exercise more discrimination in our choice of the matcria of' which we make Masons
do less "'.Or~, nnd see that it is better done. In short, we must use every propel'.
means w1thm our power, which may be calculatod to improve both the head
a!1d the heart, and instill iuto the mind a love and reverence for the pure principles of the Order, and a desire to become thoroughly indoctrinated into their
requirements. Let these things be done; let the rulers of the Craft, who shoud be
the exemplars of the teachings aud requirements of Masonry commence the work
of reformation in their Lodges, and sh.ow to the world that they 1t1;e places where
good and true men alone do congregate; and let it be known :unong the brethren
tha~ Lodg~s are not held solely for the purpoRe of conferring degrees and tran~­
~ctmg bus1~~~· but that due regard is to be had to the enlightening of the mind
and the pur1ty1~g of the morals; and our Lodges will become the favorite resort.
of men of lntelhgence and worth-the true light in Masonry will be coveted anrl
sought nfter-;-the impure exhalations of the atmosphere which has gathered around
Ii.er alt.ars will be ~orevcr ~wi:pt away-and 1!1e11 will be prompted by higher motives than a mere idle c1mos1ty, when applymg for the mysteries of the Order.
1t may not be improper in this connection to notico the existence of another
evil which requires correction, and in reference to which the foregoing remarks
may not be wholly inapplicable, as the same corrective would doubtle~s operate

b85f .]

aR.ANn LODGE oJr oALiroii?.iA.

16

beneficially in this instance also. It is an inordinate desire for official station in
the Lodge, and the almost rebellious dissatisfaction sometimes manifested by
lbe defeated aspirant, when he finds that his brethren have placed a lower estimate upon his qualifications than be had himself. This unfortunate disposition
011 the part of some of our brethren who have not yet learned the art of sell~
government, that first nnd most essential requisite to the proper government of
others, has jeopardised the pence and harmony, and created confusion in the ranks
of more Lodges than 11.lmost any other one cauRe. I will forbear further remarks
in reference to it, however, in the hope that this brief notice may lead to its
correction, and prevent both an exposure of weakness and a dereliction of duty.
llefore dismi88ing this portion ot my subject, I feel it to be incumbent upon
me to remind the brethren ~f the Lodges how important it is that they should
exeroise great precaution in the selection of their officers. The laws of Masonry
require that the members of a Lodge should be unexceptionable men ; and the
well-being of the institution requires in addition thereto, that those who fill
official Htations in it, should be men of sufficieut attainments to enable them to
discharge efficiently all those duties which may, in any emergency, devolve upon
them. They moreover, form a sort of index to the character and standing
of the members, which will be judged of, and vory properly, by that of their officers. For where· you find the latter deficient in those guneral qualifications which
~hould characterize the good man as well as the good MnRon, you will seldom fail
io find n want of moral tone among the members of the Lodge. True, this may
not alwnys be the case, as a bad man may somtimes manage to become even the
Master of'a good Lodge, by concealing bis unworthiness until the object of bis ambition has been 11ttained, and some accidental circumstance has chanced to develop
his true character. There is no apology, however, where the reputation of the intlividual is already and unfavorably known. If the brethren will select their officerB, and more especially their Master, from among men whose character and
'tanding in the community where he resides is exceptional, or even doubtful in
reference to the positive requirement of society and good government, it mny be
Hct down f\8 a certain index tq the character of the Lodge, where similar or equal
deficiencieR will be found among the members. " A good tree bringeth not forth
bad fruit."
I know of no more proper time or place than this, to drop a·word of admonition in reference to the conduct of Masons toward~ each uther, as well as to the
acknowledged tenchings and requirements of the Order. It may i:;eem strange
tlmt Ma~ons should ever make uRe of abusi vc epithets, or other improper
language towards one another, and yet I have known it done: It mny seem
,;trange that Masons should deal unjustly wit.b one another, and yet complaint
has often been made. It would seem strange that Mnsons 8hould be found
pursuing 1\ line of conduct in contravention of the Io.ws of the land, and calculated to bring reproach upon the Craft, and yet it is llllid that such is sometimes
the case. It wou Id seem strange that Masons !Would be found revellng in riot and
exceM, and yet they are seen. But strangest of all would it seem, that Masons
"hould ever be found profane, to that degree of excel<S that would make a novitiate in impiety blush, nnd yet I bnve heard that august name, at mention of
which, archangels bow their heads and the powers of darkness are seized with
fenr and trembling, used as a common by-word! and often spoken irreverently
hy those who are expected to set 1\ better example, and whose almost only fault
is sometimes this. .
l nm far from offering these observations t\K iudices to the general character of
the fraternity of this jurisdiction, a~ I believe it will probably compare favorably
with that of almost any other; but they are mentioned as existing instances of moral dereliction, which have only to be sought for to be seeu, originating in the pl\st
aud whether attributable to tl.ie lax ~tat!! of moral~ once exi~ting here, or to ou~
carel~~sness iu the choice of the material of which MasonH 1tre made, or what IH
more probable. to both cau~cH combined, it matters not, a~ the evils complained of, although yielding to better inthlence8, 1tre not yet wholly corrt'Cted.
\\'e should not dit down supinely, and await tbc operation of the public sentiment
to correct our errors for us, hut ~hould Cl)clearor to create iu our own ranks u

ioURNAt OF PROl'i:Ei:>f~rns.

[.May,

he~l~hy tone of sentiment where wanting, to a.dd strength to it where already
cxistmg, a.nd, when under the control of improper influences, to correct it 80 fa.r
as ma.y ?e.within our power. Wo may not excuse ourselves from the task of
reformation upon the plea. that our influence is too small to be felt. Who is there
without influence? And who cannot accomplish good if he will try? As the
smallest rain-drop which falls into the ocean and is lost in its immensity forms
an integral pa.r.t ?f its mighty waters, so the slightest emanation of the' mind,
when directed m its proper channel, enters a.s a controlling influence into the
mig~t:r mnss of intelligence ~vh}ch directs t~ c counsels of Ma.sons, a.nd sways the
destmies of the world; a.nd it is even 80 with the effortR of the most humble in~ividual, when properly directed in aid of reformation. They add to the upheavmg ele!11ents of public sentiment, nnd swell Its gathering strength, until there is
no resis~ing the potency of its workings, no withstanding tlie 'sweeping influrnces of its vast accumulated power. Then say not that your influence is too small
to be felt. Unite it with that of others, and it must and will be felt , for "in union
there is strength."
I have issued Dispensntions for eleven new Lodges during too pa.st year, n list
of which is herewith submitted. We now number one hundred and eleven
working Lodges, with a.n aggregate membership of a.bout five thousand. J
have declined issuing Dispensations on llevera.l occasions, a.nd for several purpo.ses, where, in mY: opinio~, it was inexpedient or improper to do so. But
with all the preca.ut1011s which I have endea.vered to use, I am apprehensive
that I have transcended my authority by granting Dispensations to re-ballot
for rej~cted applicants for initiation under any circumstances whatever. f Ii.ave
a.u thor1zed such re-ballots to be ta.ken, where the reasons assigned by the Lodge
for requesting a Dispensation for such purpose ap.11eo.red to be good and sufficient-contenting myself with the use of such precautionary measures a.s were best calculated to prevent imposition, and ensure a thorough compliance with all the
regulations of the Gra.ml Lodge. I am satisfied now, however, that in following
the example set me by the Grand Lodge, I have erred, and thnt neither it nor the
Grand Master should interfere with the Lallot of a Lodge where it has been
properly to.ken. The evils likely to result from the opportunity thus afforded an
unscrupulous member to ferr et out a ballot, and by browbeating, or by the use
of other unmasonic appliances, to defeat the independent and untrammeled
acti-0n of the members, would more than counterbalance any good likely to result
from the use of' such a. privilege.
I would suggest an alteration in Standing Resolution No. 49, so a8 to require
a member who objects to a visiting brother's entering the Lodge, to state the
grounds of his objection to the Master, and leave.it to his discretion whether or
uot the objection be valid. The extraordinary privilege conferred by that Resoolution, ha1l, t-0 my certain knowledge, been gro ssly abused. and should by nil
means be restricted.
·
'!'he vouclii11{} for visitors is a matter of so much importance, and often so ca.relessly done, ns to require a remedy. I would therefore .suggest to the Mo.sters of'
Lodges the propriety of not nclmitting visitors until the opgniug ceremonies are
concluded, nnd the minutes of the preceding meeting properly dioJlOBed of.
Where there arc usually u number of visitors, 11s is generally the case in citie~
and populous neighborhoods, the ncce88ity of' greater precaution than is sometime8 used, will naturally suggest itself: The practice of vouching for visitor"
promiscuously, and ju~t at the moment of opening the Lodge, as is too frequently
clone, is liable to much abuse, nnd I know of no b~tter method for its careful
nnd proper exercise than the one above suggester].
·
I believe it i• generally conceded that ballotings should be hatl at regular
meetings only. And where 11 Dispensation is granted to ballot at a special meeting, under circumstances which would justify and render expedient such procedure, every member of' the ,Lodge ,;hould Le duly notified of the time when it
is to be ta.ken, that no opportunity may be nfforded of foisting upon the Fraternity an improper person. Were the Lodge entirely free from misguided, not to
say unscrupulous men, who are sometimes found willing to injure a. Lodge other
than their own, through envy, private pique, jealously, or ill will townrds either

o.RA.N:b i.oi>aE o:F cAi.i:FoaNIA..

6857.]

the Lodge or some member belonging to it, I f!hould think that a.ll Masons present
at 11 balloting, whether members of the Lodge or not, should bo entitled to vote .
1\11 It would be a matter in which the entire Fraternity was interested. But ex~
pcrlence has taught us that the rule would probably not work well now ; for
when Masons are found who a.re willing to visit their displeasure against a Lodge
upon the head of a visiting brother hailing from it, and against whom they ha.v~
no ground of complaint whatever, save that he is a member of that particullLr
Lodge, we may well question the expediency of permitting men governed by such
Influences to have a right to ballot in a.ny Lodge except their own. As many
members of the Lodge ma.y reasonably be supposed to ballot in accordance with
the report of the investigating committee, it behooves thol!e committees to
exercise great precaution in their reports, lest their remissnellll should lead
the brethren a.stray, and be the ca.use of their voting in favor of the a.dmiHHion
of applicants, who would have been rejected had their character and qualifications been properly looked into, and a report made in accordance therewith. I
have heard it said, that we have brethren among us who never resort to the use of
the rejecting ballot under a.ny circumstances whatever. For their own credit aH
well as for the credit of the Institution, I should hope it were otherwise; and I ~an
only regret the possibility of similar sentiments having been entertained by others
at the time of their ndmission. Where a ballot is tnken separately for ea.ch degree
it should, I think, always be unanimous, and the rejection ought to be Oll th:
score of a. want of suitable proficiency or some 1·equisite qualification not
known at the time of the candidate's admission i and not for unmo.sonic co~duct
afterwards, because in that event the objecting brother ought to make known
his objections, that the Master of the Lodge might order charges to Le preferr~d, a~d ~fford au opportunity of disproving them, if groundles~. If up- .
on mvestlgat1011, they should prove to be false and malicious, the defamer
if a Mason, would deserve a.nd should receive an a.ward of punishment equal t~
that which would have been bestowed upon the accused had he been found guilty. A brother should not, in my opinion. however, be questioned as to his mo·
tives for rejecting a.n applicant for advancement, should he choose not to reveal
them, as, in the absence of o. knowledge to the contrary, the presumption would
be that they were of a proper character.
·
It would seem to ~e t~at ~here no lawful diAqualillca.tion hus bee,n made known,
a r~uewo.l of an application for advancement might be left to the discretion of the
Lodge, o.s circumstances might develop themselves which would render a re-bal·
l.ot admissible at an earlier day than might be advisable where the rejection w11~
tor the first degree. In such event the renewal of the application should be ma.de
at a regular meeting only, and should lie over until another regular meeting before being acted upon.
'l'he requirements of the old ritual would seem to indicate that only one candidate a.ta time can, with propriety, be initiated, passed, or· raised· and thie
forms the basis for the requirements of this jurisdiction. I have thought it o.dvi~ablc to allude to this, lest an infringement of the rule elsewhere might lead
to a similar one here.
~n my A~dress of la.st year I argued against that provision of the old charges
which required that a Master of o. Lodge should previously have eerved as a War•
den. I ll!ll appr~hensiv~ that in doing so I have in some degree favored that ten·
dency to mnova.t1011 wluch has become oue of the crying evils of our time and
which. has been more apparent to me since those remarks were penned. I' shall
the~efore frankly acknowledge tho error which I then fell into in my strong
desire to ensure proficiency in the presiding officers of our Lodges • and by
abandoning the position then assumed, yield my reasoning to the force' of facts
as "No Brother can be o. Warden until he has passed the part of a Fellow-Craf*
nor a Alaster until he llru acted aa a Warden."
'
In "!~ fir~t Address to the Grand Lodge, In 1855, in reflTence to citizens
of Cahtorma. made Ma.sons while sojourning in other jurisdictions without
the consent of the Lodge nearest their place of residence, and alRo' in reference to the Grand Lodge of Hamburg relative to its invasion of the jurisdlc·
tional rights of the Grand Lodge of New York, I recommended such nction as
wus afterward had by the passage of prohibitory resolutions to a certain extent
In reference to both, though in the former instance of a r~ther more stringeni

3

18

.JOttRNAt OF PROCEEDtNGS.

[May,

character than I had in contemplation when I penned my recommendation. We
were then smarting under wrongs through Californians having been made Masons
while abroad, against our oft repeated remonstranceR, and I am apprehensive
that we have been rather too stringent In the character of the resolutions referred
to ; and I would therefore suggest such a modification as would render them of a
less exceptionable character, without abandonln~ our right of self-protection
against the inftiction of a wrong. In the former rnstance I should think it sufficient that the citizen made a Mason while abroad, as alluded to, should not be
permitted to visit any of our Lodges until he had affiliated with the one nearest
his place of residence, and paid into its treasury such additional fee as would
amount in all to the same tliat the degrees would have cost him had he received
them here · and in the latter that our fraternal correspondence with the Grand
Lodge of llamburg be discontinued until its Interference with the jurisdictional
rights of the Grand Lodge of New York be withdrawn. This would seem to
me to be sufficiently prohibitory, and would do away with the objections which
might be urgt!d against some of the requirements of those resolutions.
As regards our own Lodges, their interference with one another's jurisdictional
rights, should, I think, subject them to discllplinary action on the part of thr.
Grand Lodge, or the Grand Master. In defining those rights, however, I think
that some regard should be had to convenience of acceBB, and other facilities of "'
like nature, a.~ well as to geographical limits. This might properly be left to the
discretion of the Grand lllaster, during the interim of the Grand Lodge, who,
where the matter of convenience was worthy of consideration, would gh·e It the
requisite attention.
I have had occasion to observe that our Grand Lodge has not always exercised
due discrimination in ordering Charters for new Lodges, and has sometimes granted them where it appears to me that it would have been better to have required
another year's probation. I should think it improper as well as impolitic, to
hurry a Lodge to maturity with the evidences before us of its probationary state
not having been such as to render advisable such a procedure. In this connection, I would remark in reference to Lodges under Dispensation, that I agree
with the Grand Lodge that they are but " temporary and inchoate bodies, and
not entitled to representation in the Grand Lodge, and those who work them do
not forfeit their membership thereby in any other Lodge, while it so continues";
but I do not believe in the propriety or correctness of the principle of 11U&peruli11g
their membership in the chartered Lodges of which they may be members, because they have voluntnrily assumed responsibilities elsewhere. I think
it an injudicious interference with the lawfully incurred responsibility of the individual, as well as with the local regulations of his Lodge. I would rather let him
enjoy his privileges and pay his dues, and if he sees proper to contribute of his
means to the support of a rtew Lodge in addition thereto, let him do so-it is his
own affair and should, I think, be left to his own will. It seems to me that
where we can do so with propriety, we should encourage voluntary contributions
to the treeauries of our Lodges, which are drawn upon so freely for charitable
purposes, rather than to pursue n. course which would have a tendency to leSBen
~hem.

Under the authority of a resolution of the Grand Lodge, authorizing the appointment of a Representative near the Grand Lodge of New York, I appointed
as our Representative there the R. W. Brother JAMES W. PowELL, Past Grand
Secretary of that Grand Lodge. I have received a communication from that worthy aud estimable Brother accepting the appointment, which will doubtleBB be a
source of gratification to the brethren of California, to whom his name is familiarly and favorably known.
In complin.nce with the direction of the Grand Lodge, I again as'*'mbled the
Committee on Work at Sacramento in July last, for the purpose of making such
furth er revisions in the work and lectures as might seem necesssry and proper to
arrive at correctness, and establish uniformity. The result of that meeting will
necessarily be given verbally, and will be made known at such time as may suit
the wishes aud convenience of the Grand Lodge. I did not appoint a Grand
Lecturer during the past year, as I kue:w of no suitable perl!On who could
accept the appointment, for the purpose of discharging its duties, and I
did not deem it advisable to make a mere uowinal one. To supply the de

5857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

18

flciency. however, I vi.sited as many Lod~es as I poBBibly could in person,
~umbermg near forty m all, and embracmg all those in the northern port10n of the State, from Marysville to the Oregon line. As I had a very
good insight. into the condition of those Lodges, and worked or lectured in
nearly or qmte all of them, I am very well prepared to speak in relation to them
and feel tr~ly gratified that I can do so favorably. It is a source of pleasur;
also to avail ~yself of the only favorable opportunity afforded me to acknowledge the cordial welcome which awaited me every where and the kind attentions
bestowed upon me by the officers and members of the Lodges wherever I went.
They can never be forgotten.
My tour north encouraged me as to the practicability of introducing uniformity
o.r work. I found ~h.e breth~en everywhere. anxious to be taught the ancient
ritual, and 07:1ly awa1tmg a suitable opportumty to learn it. My own experience
and observation suggt!sts to mo that if the ancient ritual is adhered to and tho
pr_?p.er ~o~r~ pursued in teaching it, uniformity of work can be introduced into
this JUr1sd1ct1on, and perhaps at no distant day. It should be recommendatory
however, and no attempt should be made to force it upon the Lodges, o.s experi:
?nee shows ~h~t men cannot be legislated out of their opinions in reference to
it, however w1llmg they may otherwise be to be guided by the dictates of reason
and .common sense. During my absence I had occasion to pass through the southern
portion of Oregon, and was detained a short time at Jacksonville. I should reel
that I had not done my duty were I to omit acknowledgin15 the generous hospitality
of th.e warm hearted Masons of Oregon. A subsequent vuilt to tbe interior of that
Territory, where I spent several days very pleasantly with the Most Worshipful
~rand ~aster, Bro. A. M. BELT, and other distinguished brethren of that jurisdlct1_?n,_ '!ill, I am sure, render appropriate this further acknowledgment of the ho11p1taht1es of our Oregon brethren.
I :would direct the attention of the Grand Lodge to several communications on
file m the. Gf!'nd Sec_retR!'y's office, in reference to Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. and
the orgamzat1on stylmg itself "Le Progrla de l'Oceanit." However desirable it
may be, and is, that amicable relations should be restored between the members
of the regular Lodge and those of the irregular association referred to it can
not be done at the sacrifice of correctness ; and therefore the interdiotion or
Masonic intercourse between them must of necessity continue until "Le Prrr
grla de l'Oceanie" can show that it is working under lawful Masonic authority
I won!? ask the at~ention. of the Grand .Lodg~ a!so t? the peculiar position of
Hawauan Lodge, owmg to its remote and isolated s1tuat1on, the eosmopolitan character of most of its applicants for initiation, and the continual drain upon its treae·
ury for charitable purposes. These unavoidable exigenciea demand at our hands
the most liberal course of policy, and, I may add, even latitudinarian exercise o(
privileges that a generous liberality can sue:gest, and the general requirements of
the Order admit of.
I would avail myself of this method of directing the attention of Masters of
_Lodges to the requirements of Masonry, as well as to those of this Grand lodge
m reference to the proficiency of candidates previous to thfir advancement. Th~
Ancient <'.barges place grea~ stress upon su~h proficiencY:. The Grand Lodge of
Engla~, m order to ensure It as far as practicable, found 1t necessary to require a
probation of four weeks, and an examination in open Lodge in. the preceding degree. The latter regulation is in vogue here, and with a manifest beneficial trndency. To add the former to it would only be to increase the ·probabilities of a
due proficiency eo far as regards the ritual ; and if the probation were even lengthened, and an opportunity aJforded the candidate of receiving suitable instruction re.
lative to the moral requirements of Masonry as well as to its ritual it would be far
better both for him and for the Lodge-would confer upon him la&tin'g benefits-and
would add strength and stability to the Institution. The Grand Lodge had in view
the proficiency of the can~idate when it provided that an ~xamination in open
Lodge should be h~d previous to advancrment; and the evasion of the manifest intmt of the resolution referred to, by a partial and imperfect examination is altogeth~r ~mproper. The candidate &hould be placed near the centre of the room,
and tacrng the Master, by whom he should be examin.ed; and every question a.sked

20

JOURNAL 01' PROCEEDINGS.

[Nay,

and answer given 1hould be in a clear and distinct tone of voice, so a.s to be heard
by every member of the Lodge; 11nd if there be an evident want of proficiency,
(which an examination was surely never intt>nded to supply) why, ltt him wait until
he h111 acquired it, and both himself and the Lodge will be benefitted thereby. Th~
r •quirementa of the Grand Lodge should not bP. avaded for the ~ake of convenience,
or for nny other cause.
It affords me pleasure to inform the Grand Louge that a short time previous to
ill last Annual Communication a "Masonic Board of Uelief" was formed by the
Lodges of San Francisco, for the purpo!e of enabling them to dispense more equitably their charities, and al10 to guard against imposition on the part of improper
applicants. This highly creditable organiz11tion deserves the warmest gratitude
of the entire fraternity of the :State, for the many benefits which it has already
conferred upon the numerous iipplicanta who have been rclie\•ed through its instrumentality. The Board has, at my suggestion, ordered a report of its proceeding• to be presented to the Grand I.odge for its inspection, and I flatter my~elf that
it will be found every way worthy its commendation. I would take occasion
here to recommend to country Lodges, when they have fornish~.d Masons with
means to send them home, to report the same forthwith to the Secretary of that
Bond, together with the name and residenre of the applicant, the name, number
and locality of his Lodge, the amount of relief furnished, and any other information deemed necessary and proper to enable it to guard against imposition.
lt is but proper that I should take occasion here to allude· to the able and efficient manner in which the Grand Secretary has discharged the duties appertaining
to his office during the past year, as will be seen by referPnce to his books, and the
neat and orderly arrangement of every thing connected therewith. It seems
to me that the salary of the Grand Secretary is scarcely adequate t•J the vast
amo•mt of labor performed, by him, and that it would probably be better that he
should not be dependent upon a contingency in part, (or his remuneration for servicP.s rendered ; but instead thereof should receive a fixed salary, sufficiently remunerative, and be allowed no perquisites of office.
In conformity to the wishes of many enlightened Brethren of this jurisdiction, I
hart intended giving a synopsis of my decisions, in reference to questions of law or
usage which have arisen during my terms of service as Grand Master. U;ion examination, however, I find that they have embraced so wide a range in the field of
Masonic Jurisprudence as to render it advisable that they should not be crowded
into this address, and I have therefore concluded to give them, or rather a substitute
for them, in a separate form. The rubstitute to which I allude is a synopsis of my
own views relative to Masonic Law and usage, and which I have been prompted
to give for the following reasons :-1 find them to accord generally with those expresse-1 by the old established authorities, and therefore feel the less hesitation in
offering them; and as my decisions have been more in accordance with the req\lirements of the Grand Lodge, and the generally prevailin;:' sentiment relative
ttiereto, than strictly with my ow~_views, I thought it better to endearnr to correct
existing errors than to aid, however remotely, in perpetuating them; and as some
of the views set forth in the synopsis alluded to are not in strict accordance with
those heretofore prevalent in this Grand Lodge, and as its publication would moreover tend to swell the volume of its proceedings, I would suggest that they be not
encumbered with it for the present, but that the matter or its publication be left
to my own c!iscretion at some future day, and through some other channel of communication. In the mean time however, it will afford me pleasure to submit it to
the Grand Lodge for the use of its committees, so far as may be found desirable.
Several matters which l sh.o ul•l have deemed it advisable to call attention to,
through this channel of comniunication have been omitted here, in order that they
might more appropriately appear in the synopsis alluded to.
· I have been favored with a treatise on Masonic Jurisprudenee, from the pen of
Bro. RoBJ:BT Mo•us, of Kentucky. I regret that, owin1 to the length of the
treatise, and the little time allotted me outside the discha1ge of my official duties,
I have been unable to examine it with that care which would be necessary to en-

5857.}

21

ORAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

able me to express a n opinion as to the correctness of the views ·therein presented.
But from the cunory glance which I have given its contents, I find that it has
been gotten up with great care, contains a vast amount of useful information,
and will doubtless prove a valuable acquisition to any Masonic Library. The
more brief treatise from the pen of Bro. A. G. M.a.clrEY 1 of South Carolina, "on
the Constitution11l Law~, Usages anrl Land Marks of Free. Ma~onry," I ha~e
thoMughly examined, and could wi'h it in the hands of evny Mason in the juns·
diction. While on this subject, I will take occasion to recommend again as a TextBook, the " New Masonic Trestle Bo~rcl," by Bro. CHAllLES W. MoonE, of Boston,
Mass.; and in directing the attention of the brethren to t he Masonic periodica ls
of the day, as sources of much valuable in fo rmation, I may be excused for alludiug particu larly to" The Free Masons' .Monthly MagnzinP " of Boston, us it was
one of my earliest sources of Masonic information, and has never a ided me in the
formation of an incorrect opinion that I am aware of, or otherwise impaired my
confidence in the Masonic ability of its distinguished erli:or. With such source~
of information, together with the " Masonic Review " of Cincinnoti, and vanous o:her vehicles of Masonic intelligence, there is every opportunity afforded
the brother who will read and reflect, to become an enlighteoPd aml useful Mason.
In ~carchinir for light, however, we should not overlook the old standard authors.
or that " Great light iii llfasonrg " whirh should bP. both the Alpha aud the Omega
of every Mason's erlucation.
I have offered for your consider&tiou, brethren, sucli matters of interest as in
my opinion are worthy your attention. There may be, and doubtless are, other
matters which will present themselves to your minus, for the omission of
which, in part, I must crave your· indulgence, and offer as an apology the hurried
manner in which this address has necessarily been written. An experience of
three co!l~ecutive years, in the discharge of the arduous dutie~ which have been assigned me, has taught me that I can unhesitatingly throw myself upon the kind
indulgence of the Craft in Califomia, for any errors which I may have committed
in my official capacity. The distinguished honors which you have conferred upon
me have been l...ighly prized, because they have been the unsought free ·will offerirags of men whose good opinions were worthy of consideration; but they have
been worn with almost fear and trembling, least the recompense of service which
I could offer you in return, should fall so far short of what I felt to be due the
Craft, as to shame me with the poverty of the offering. I must therefore beg your
kmd indulgence, and if I have erred or fall en short of your expectations, I woul1l
ask that the broad mantle of charity be cast over my imperfections. Lang11Bge
fai ls me on retiring, to suitably express the many obligations which I am under to
the Fraternity of California. not alone for the high position whirh has thrice been
conferred upon me, but for thoi.c count!Pss exhibitions of kindness nnd affection
which have been showP.red aloug my pathway, anrl which, like flowers of Paradise,
have instilled the ir fra!;'ran·cc into m y heart . They have rendered m y nrdu·
ous duties even a source of pleasure. Brethren, I can " nly reiterate my thanks,
and assure you that the remembrnnce of your kindness will be ever present with
me, and will sher! a halo of light around the pathway of my future.

W. H. HOWARD.
A LIS'!' OF DISPENSATIONS
TO OPEii

A.ND HOLD NEW LODGES, ISSUED BY THE GllA.ND
SINCE THE CLOSE OF THE LAST COJdl\lUNICATIO!I.

MASTl:R,

1856.-May 15 ••• • Metmt Jefferson,••••• ••• Garrote, .••.••.••••••• Tuolumne County.
July ~ •••• Owen, ••••••••• • •• •••• •Johnson's Bar, •••••••• Siskiyou
"
" 15 •••• lJibble •••••• •••• ••••• • .Alpha, •••• •••••• .•••• Nevada
"
Oct. 28 ••• • Pajaro, •........ , •.... WB.tsonviJle, .•• ••..•. . Santa Cruz, ''
Dec. SJ •••• Chico, •• ................ Chico, ••••.••••••••••• Bulle
1857.-Jan. 13 •••• Summit, •••••••••••••• • Knight's Ferry, •••.•••• San Joa.quin "
Feb. 7 .••• Edm, •••••••••••••••• , San Leandro, •••..•••• Alameda
" 11. ••• A-Iount Zion, •••••••••• • Grizzly Flat, ••••••••• • El Dorado
"
" 12 .••• Saint llfark'1 ,•••• •••••• Fiddletown, ••••.•••••• Amador
"
" 14 •••• Fouom,.•• ••••••••••••• Folsom,.•••••••••••••• Sacramento
April 7 .••• Windsor, •••••• •••••••. Windsor, ••••••.••••.• Sierra

r
22

[May,

.JOURNAL Oll' PROCEEDINGS.

On motion of Bro. J. J. AMES, the Address of the Grand Master
was referred to a Special Committee of five.
The Deputy Grand Master named the following brethren as such special Committee -

Otl the

Grand Masters' .Addru1,........ ...

Bro. John F. Morse,
" Charles Manh,
" E. 8. Ruggles,
J . W. Claiborne,
·' J. C. Burch.

Il "

On motion of Bro. R. F. KNOTT, the By-Law requiring the reports
of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer to
presented on the
first day of the Communication, was suspended, in consequence of the
lateness cf the hour.

be

The Grand Lodge was then called off until IO o'clock, to-morrow
morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

5857.J

Live Oak, ........ No. 61, .... .. H. A. H101.11:Y, Past Master, and proxy for W. M.
Jowa Hill, ....... No. 63, .....•GEo. L. liAKLIN, Junior Warden .
T.

lone, ...••.. •• .• ••~o. 80....

{JoHN C. Gun, Worshipful Master.
JoHN E. HUNT, Senior Warden.

Naval, ............ No. 87, ......C. H. OLIVER, Representative.
Henry Olay, •... No. 95,......0. P. SoUTBWET.L1 Worshipful Master.

Which report was .received and concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
The Grand Masterannounced the following Standing Committees: -

0 1,

Bro. Jae. W. Claiborne,
'' 0. C. Wheeler,
Griiivances :..............................
'' · W.W. Traylor,
{ " E. S. Ruggles,
" Geo. Johnston.

.f

011 Unfi11i.~hed Rusin.es.~:..................

.Jn c@rnn() !obgt.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Bro. H. G. Brown,
'' A. 'l'. Nelson,
" C. F. Irwin,
A. E. Callaway,
'" Chas. Meredith.

l"

Bro. Chas. Marsh,
" Thoe. P. Hawley,
() 11 l'i11ance and Accounts: ......... .,....
" Jos. Tyson,
{ " J. S. Blacklvell,
" A.D.P11.rk.

Wednesday, May 13th, A. L. 5854.
The Gtand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.

IJn 1Jispensation11 and Charters:.........

.

After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
yesterday were read and approved.
Bro. A. MARTIN, from the Committee on Credentials reported the
following additional members as present and entitled to scats, viz. :
from

San FrancUlco, No. 7, ...•••Taoius CALLAN, Senior Warden.
Occidental, .••.•. No, 22, .....•H. A. WEBB, P. M. and proxy for W. M. & J. W.
Gol,den Gate, ... No. 30,. ....• GEo. J. HoBE, Past Master.
Santa Cruz, .....No. 381••••••J. F. J. BENNETT, Senior Warden.
Hiram, ......••.No. 43,.. .•..C. P. JACKSON, proxy for Junior Warden.
Illinoistown, .... No. 51, .••.••WH. M. STEWART, Senior Warden.
S11iaun, ...•••.••.No. 55, ...... F. L. ,JACKSON, proxy for Worshipful Master.
Unioo, ........•...No. 58, ..••.•J. H . RuBTON, Past Master.

2S

Bro. J. R. Crandall,
'' J. W. Harville,
" W. A. January,
'' E. C. Southworth,
'' Jos. DeBell.

l

Bro. Isaac Davis,
" R. F. Knott,

011 Work: .. ............. ··· •• ·· .... .... ·· · · · ..

lr :: ~: i: 'i;~~~on,
l " l<'. C. Andrew.

o:;,..;,,,..a..,.'........................... l

Bro. N. Greene Curtis,
" E. Lane,
" E. Bogardus,
" ,J. C. Burch,
l " Thoe. M. Reed.
Bro. T. A. Thomas,

f " W. Ayer,
0 11 Ed11 cat-w 11 : .............. . . .. ............ Jl " J. L. Wilkins,
" .r. B. HenderRon,
·

"

B. Newman.

24

.Jouii.tui o:f PROCEEi>i~os.

6857.)

Bro~ H.F. Williams,

" J. M. Havens,
On By·Latc1: ................... ....•....... .•
" J. K. Smith,
{ " S. F. Benjamin,
" E. W. Potter.
Bro. J.... C. Owen,
"

On Returna :..................................

J.B. Hewson,

'' A. McNeill,
" A. Hanua,

{

"

J. B. Buker.

Bro. J. F. MoRSE1 from the committee to whom was referred the
Grand Master's Address, presented the follow'ing report: 1b tM M:. W. ·. Grand Lodge qf California: -

Your committee to whom was referred the Address of the M.·. lV:. Grand Ma~­
ter, submit the following report : We rt'<lommend that so much of said Address as refers to the Masters of San
Joaquin and Morning Star. Lodges; to the suspension and expulsion of tlrn Master of Oaymua Lodge ; and to the proceedings of Rose's Bar Lodge in relation to
the rejection of an applicant for the degrees of Masonry ;-be referred to the Committee on Grievances: .
That so much as refers to the existing difficulties in Sa.n .Franci:ioo Lodge, No. 7,
be referred to a Special Committee of iive : That so much as refers to the subject of "side degrees" he r eferred to ll Special
Committee of three : 'l'hat so much as relates to the ueces.sary qut>lific11tion11 of Masters of Lodges ; to
the suggested modification of the prohibitory resolutions having reference to the
ma.king of Masons of citizens of this State while without the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge; to the respective jurisdictions of subordinate Lodges ; and to
the difficulties existing between Hawaiian Lodge and the Lodge " Le Progres de
L'Ocea11ie - be referred to the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence:~
That so much as refers to the memorial of Hawaiian Lodge, concerning a remission of its dues ; to the salary of the Grnnd Secretary; a1Jd to the San Francisco Board of Relief: - be referred to the Committee on Finance and AccountP.
Your committee would further recommend to the special attention of the Fraternity 11t large those admonitory and commendable suggestions of Masonic
duty with which the Address is so repletQ.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JouN F. Mons~:,
)
CHAS. MARSH,

E. s. R. UGGLES,
J .1.MES

w. CLAJ.DOHNE,

Commit.tu.

Jo1rn C. Bu1{cJI,

Which report was received.
Bro. J. J. PAPY moved that 80 much of the report llll relates to San
1''rancisco Lodge No. 7, be recommitted to the committee; which motion did not prevail, and the report of the committee was then concurred in.
The Grand Master named the following brethren as the Special Committee -

·

(Chas. Marsh,

I E. Bogardus,
On the.affairs of San Francisco Lodge: i '1'. M. .Reed,

l

E. S. Ruggles,
Geo. Johnston.

GRAND tODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

25

The Grand Secretary presented his Annual Report, as follows : To the M:. W: . Grand Lodge qf California: The undersigned again presents the Annual Report required by the Constitution
from the Grand Secretary.
Immediately after the close of the last Communication, he officially informed
Bros. L. J. Cz.lPK.lY, JESSJ: MORRILL, and A. Hu.a, of the action of the Grand
Lodge by which they were severally restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry; and, in accordance with the instructions given, addressed a letter to the
Grand Lodge of Germany, in 1eply to the communication thence received the pre·
ceding year. Both papers are herewith submitted. Letters were also transmitted
to the former Master of Parific Lodge, at Valparaiso, Chile, and to tlit Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts, enclosing the resolutions adopted at the last session in re·
lation to that Lodge, formerly under this jurisdiction; an•l the order of the Grand
Lodge, directing the return of fift,v·six dollars to foe Grand Lodge of New Jeraey,
has been complied with, as will be seen by the acknowledgemeut of ita receipt
contained in a letter from Past Grand Master Edward Stewart, herewith presented.
In compliance with the resolution passed last year, parchment has been procured
from New York, and one hundred blank Charters have been prepared, which are
no"w offered for inspection. The various Grand Secretaries in the United States
have again been requested to furnish us with the back publications of their tran11actions, and a considerable number have been received in addition to tho1e reported
at the last Communication,, which have been bound 11.nd placed in the library. A
.:omplete edition of the "~1asonic Review," by Bro. C. Moore, of Cincinnati, com·
prising fifteen \'Olumes, has also been received.
Fifteen hundred copies of the proceedings at your last meeting were pFinted and
distributed as usual, with the exception of five hundred reserved for binding, and
those required for use at your present session; and the undersigned having on hi1
own account completed the republication of the transactions of this Grand Lodge
from its organization to and including the year 1854, again urges upon your attention the propriety and utility of having those of 1855 and 18:16, now on hand,
bound in a similar manner, and sold to the Lodges and Masons in the State at such
price as shall cover the cost of their printing and binding. There are now on hand
five hundred or more copies of each of those two years, which together would make
n volume of some four hundred and fifty pages, equaling in size that already published;
and as all the Lodges can now be supplied with the complete proceedings to 1854,
it is recommended, not only that those of 1855 and 1860 be thus prepared, but
that hereafter a similar number of copies be laid aside each year to be bound a1
often as a volume of suitable size shall have been completed. Not only can the existing Lodges then be furnished with a complete history of the Masonic transactions of this State, but each new Lodge hereafter created, r.11n at once be provided
with them all, at a price which shall remunerate the Grand Lodge for the di1burat·
ment necessary to accomplish this useful project.
The books, papers and correspondence of the Grand Secretary are herewith presented, together with an account of the receipts during the year, and of the bal11nce1
in favor of and against certain Lodges on the fourth day of March laat, aa
follows:-

™ Grand Stt:rdary in account with tM Grand Lodge qf C'alifcmiia., fur the year from

March 4, A. L. 6856, to March 4, A. L. 5867.
1856.
For receipts during the year, as follows:Dr.
May 10, I<'rom sundry Lodges, from March 4, 1856, to this date, as reported at the last Communication,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . $ 6194 25
" 12, " Yount, - Lodge, No. 12, dues in full to 4th March, 1856, 27 oo
"
" Amador,
"
" 65, "
"
"
"
"
111 ao
" " Riling Star, "
" 83, fee for Charter,... . ... . . . . . . . .
60 00
" 13, " Iowa. Hill,
"
" 63, on acc't dues to 4th March, 1856, 49 00
Amount Cl\rried forwe.rd, ............. . .....• '6378 76

4

26

[May,

JOUltNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Amount brought forw11rd, ................................ $6378 75
M11y 13. FromHoward, Lodge, No. 96, Ch'r fee and dues to M11y 1, '56, 70 00 ·
" " " v~,
" " 84, " "
"
"
"
84 50
"
" L«l:i,ngt,qn,
"
" 104, "
"
"
99 50
" " " Mt. Jejff17'1K1111 "
U. D., fee for DispenB11tion,..........
75 00
" " " B«ir Moumain,"
No. 76, balance of dues to Mar. 4, 1856,
4 00
" 14, " Volcano,
"
" 116, on ncc't,
"
"
"
31 00
" 23, " Michigan Oity, "
" 47, balance of "
"
"
6 50
"
" 37, "
"
"
"
15 50
" 24, " St. John'•,
"
" 3, dues in full to
"
"
101 00
" 30, " Tehama,
June II, " JejfffT'B<m,
"
" 97, •·
''
May, 1, "
40 50
"
" 46, "
"
Mar. 4, "
45 00
" 28, " Te:raa,
July 2, " Owen,
U. D., fee for Dispensation,.... . . . . . .
75 00
" 15, " Dibble,
"
" " "
"
75 00
Aug. 1,
2,
"

" 13,
" 29,
Sept. 22,
Oct: 16,
" 28,
Nov. 24,
" 29,
Dec. 2,
" 31,
1857.
Jan. 3,
" 13,
" "
Feb. 7,
" 11,
" 12,
" "
" 14,
Mar. 4,

Iowa BUl,

"
"

~'

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

St. 1..oUia,

Ent,erpriu,

"

"

"

"

Watern Star, "
SiBkiyw,

Pajaro,
San Joaquin,
Trinity,
Volcano,
Ohioo,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

Ophir'.

~ummit,

"

Olay,
Eden,

Mt. Zion,

"

No. 63, bal. of dues to Mar. 4, 1856,... .
" 14, "
"
"
"

11 00
11 50

" 86, ''
"
May 1, "
" 70, "
Mar. 4, "
" 2, "
"
" 105, "
"
May 1, "
U. D., fee for Dispensation,. . . . . . . . . .
No. 19, balance of dues to Mar. 4, 1856,
" 27,
"
"
"
"
"
" 56,
"
"
"
"
U. D., fee for Dispensation,..........

31 50
ii 00
6 50
14 50
75 OU
2 50
4 OU
50 50
75 00

No. 33, balance of dues to Mar 4, 1856,
U. D., fee for Dispensation, ......... .
No.101, bal.Char.fee & dues to M'y l,'56
U. D., fee for Dispensation, ......... .

2 50
75 00
20 00
75 00
75 00
75 00
2 25
75 00

"

"

"

"

St. Marla,
"
" "
"
"
No. 75, balance of dues to Mar 4, 1856,
Mountain./ibreat"
Folsom,
"
U. D., fee for Dispensation, ....•.....
Grand Lodge fees for 97 Diplomas issued, 22 of which were
not charged for, being for families of deceased Brethren, or
in lieu of old ones issued heretofore - 75 at $1 each,. . . . .

75 00

5867.]

Z7

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNll.

Statement of balancu to ikbii and credit qf Lodgu, on the booka of the G1·and &cretary, MareJi 4th, A. L. 11857.
DR.
CR.
Nevada
Eureka
Parfaite UnWri
Wa..!hington
Gold Hill

Sanla Clara
Butte
Santa C'ruz
Los Angela
Hiram
lllinoiatown
Santa Rosa
Natoma
Nebraska
Wiscomin Rill
Petaluma
OalaVfJT'a..!

Humboldt
11fountain
Quartzlmrg
La Grange
Manzanita
Oroville,

Lodge, No. 13,. ... .. .... . . .... ......... .
" 16, •.....•..... . ..... . •...... $23 00
"
" 17,...................... .... 50 50
" 20, ..........•....••........ 127 60
"
" 32,............ . ....... . ..... 51 00
"
" 34,............ .. ............
7 00
" 36,. ........................ .
"
" 38,. ............. ... ........ .
"
" 42,............... .. .........
2 00
" 43,.................. ... .....
4 00
"

"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"

"

$1 00

1 60
8·00
2 00

51, ........... ... ' .......... .

" 57,. .. . .. . . . . . .. .. .. .. . .. .. ..
" 64,. ..... . .......•. ..... .....
" 71,............ . ... .. ........
" 74,. ................ ... ..... .
" 77, ......... .... .............
" 78, ... ..•.•••.. .••.. ... . ... ..
" 79,. ............. . ... . ...... .
" 82,................. . ....... .
" 98, ........•.........• : ..... .
" 99, .......................... .
" 102,. •.••......•........•.•...
" 103, ..............••.....•....

65 00
7 50
4 50
2 25
83 00
1 60
1 00
81 60
16 50
74 00
3 00
2 00

$578 00

$40 25

It will be seen that the nccountsare made ouly to the fourth day of March, that

being the d11oy fixed by our regulations for the return,e to be made and dues paid.
for the current ;year, and it having been thought proper to keep each year's accounts thus distmct. Before the close of the Communication, a further report will
be made of the receipts since the day above named, as was done at the last annual
meeting, though they will appear at the next session in the accounts of the present
year.
•
All of which is rc!'pectfully submitte<l.
AJ,EX. G. ADELL, Grand Stcrdary.

Total receipts during the year, ..... ..... ..... . ....... . $7861 00
1856.
Cr.
May 10, By cash paid Grand Treasurer, as reported thiR date,. . ... . $6,194 26
Nov 1, By cash paid Grand Treasurer as per receipt,. .......... .
900 00
1857.
Mar. 4, By cash paid Grand Treasurer as per receipt, •. , ......... .
766 75
$7,861 00

RECAPITULATION.
Received for back dues of 1855, ............................... .
"
" Dispensations iBBued,. ..... ,. .............. . ... ..
"

"

Charters granted,. . . . . . . . . . .................... . .

"

"

i•

Diplomas issued, ...... ............•......... .... .
Dues of 1856, . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ...

192 00
900 00
1200 00
106 00
5,463 00
t7,861 00

Which report was received, and with the accompanying books and
papers, was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report, ns follows: The Grand Tr&lSurer in account with tlie Grand Lodge qf California for the fiacal year
ending March 4th, A. L. 5857.
RECEIPTS.
1856.
May 1. Balance i!l treasury per hist account, ••...... , ••••.......
" 7. Ca~h rccmved from Alex. G. Abell, Grand Secretary,. ...... .
"
U
H
H
H
41
H
H
" 10.
Nov. 1.
1857.
March 4.
"

DR.
$479 32
13fi0 00
4844 25
900 00
766 75
$8340 32

1856.

29

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

[.Hay,

6867.]

DISBURSEMENTS.

DR.

The Grand Secretary presented certain papers relative to the suspen·
Rion of J. J. MAY from the mastership of Gaymus Lodge, No. 93, by
the Grand Master, and to bis subsequent expulsion by that Lodge, on
the thirteenth of December 1856 :

Fw account of contingent expensa of the ·Grand Secretary's o.f!i~:
Paid for printing & binding proceedingB ofl S56, as per voucher8, $1205 25
" " Sundry printing,
"
"
90 00
" " Repairs of furniture, fixtures, &c.,
"
"
35 00
" Rent from June 1, '56, to Mar. 31, '57, inc'v, "
500 00
" Incidental expenses for the year,
448 82 $2279 07

Fw account of Grand O.f!i=s' salaria:
Paid Ala. G. Abell, Grand Secretary, on art., asper vouchers, $1416 66
" Addison Martin, Grand Treas., for the year, "
"
100 00 $1516 66

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63,
in the case of D. N. ALLAN, expelled on the thirtieth of August, 1856,
rmd his appeal therefrom :

Fw account of expt17Mes of Grand Officers :
Paid lJ~ H. HQWard, G. M., expenses attend'g G. L., as per vouch., 52 50
" J. A. Rayrrwnd, S.G. W., "
"
"
"
"
100 00
" S. A. Merrill, J.G. lJ':,
"
"
"
"
" 100 00
" A. Martin, G.'Jfrws.,
"
"
"
"
48 75
" A. G. Abell, G.S.,
"
"
"
"
"
52 50
" Incid'l expenses G. Sec. office during ses. G. L., "
"
70 25
"
"
"
G. Master's office during year,
"
"
23 50 $447 50

Fw account of the Library :
Paid for tables and book case, as per vouchers, ............•.. $60 00
" " Binding sundry pPoc'gs ofother G. Lodges, as per vouch., 32 50

$92 50

Fw account of genl'!T'al appropriations, per raolutions;
Paid Isaac Davis, bal. salary as G. Lecturer, 1855-6, asper vouch., $250 00
" Mwris Evam, for services as Grand Chaplain, "
"
100 00
" O. D. Chafee, "
"
" Grand Tyler,
"
"
100 00
J. F. Damon, for designs for Diploma,
"
100 00
" L. Owen, for services as Asst. Grand Sec.,
"
300 00
" W. H. HQWard, for sundry expenses, &c.,
500 00
" T. A. ThomJ:U, for exp'ses at special Com'n, 1855, "
36 00
" G. LodgeofN. Jersey, $56, refundedwithprem., "
57 68
" H.F. Willia1118, for sund. furniture for G. Lodge, "
"
56 75
" G. Elliot,
"
"
"
" "
"
"
37 50
" JireemanS(Cb.,forparchmentboughtinN. York, "
"
137 33
Thierry, for making 3 new jewels for G. L.,
"
75 00
" Britton 8( Rey, for lith. 100 blank charters,
"
150 00
" G. Master'sorderforexpenses of Com. on Work, "
"
352 50 $2252 76

a.

a.

Making the total amount disbursed, ................... $6588 49
And leaving 11 balance in the treasury of.............. 1751 83

$8340 32
Of the $1700, appropriated for the Grand Secretary's Blllary, it will be seen that
$283 34 remains undrawn. A detailed account of the disbursements is presented
herewith, with the vouchers therefor from No. 89 to No. 140 inclusive, as are also
the books in which the accounts are kept.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ADDISON MARTIN, Grand 'JfrenmJrer.

Which report was received, and, with the accompanying books and
vouchers, was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
The Grand Master presented a communication from Bro. J. E.
WAINWRIGHT, P. M. of Occidental Lodge, No. 22, asking permission for
that Lodge to ballot upon the petition of an applicant for the degrees,
without the delay required by the Constitution; which was referred to
the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.

Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Martinez J,odge, No. 41, in
the case of WM. HooK, expelled on the thirty-first of March, 1857,
and his appeal therefrom :
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Ione Lodge, No. 80, in the
case of L. G. LYON, suspended on the twenty-fifth of October, 1856, with his appeal therefrom, and a memorial from sundry brethren of that
Lodge in favor of his restoration :
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, in
the caae of JAs. McD. Ross, expelled on the twenty-first of March,
1857, with his appeal therefrom :
And also, notices of the following expulsions viz: - of J. H. Bow·
DEN, by Hiram I~odge, No. 43, on the twenty-ninth of April, 1857;
of JOHN M. GARDNER, by Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18, on the
thirty-first of December, 1856; of PmLIP STRELITZ, by .Diamond
Lodge, No. 29, on the twenty-fourth of January, 1857; of JACOB
TIEHL, by Amador Lodge, No. 65, on the seventeenth of March, 1867;
and of WM. TEKUSCH, an Entered Apprentice, by St. Louis Lodge,
No. 86, on the fourteenth of February, 1857 :-All which were referred to the Committee on Grievances.
The Grand Secretary further presented the petition of sundry brethren residing at V allecito, in the County of Calaveras, asking for a
Dispensation to open a new Lodge at that place t.o be called Vallecito
Lodge; and another from sundry brethren residing at Meadow Valley,
in the County of Plumas, for a Dispensation to open a new Lodge at
that place, to be called Franklin Lodge; both which were referred to
the Committee on Dispensations and Charters :
Also, a communication from Mt. He1·mon Lodge, No. 94, relative to
the children of Masons under the care of that Lodge; which was referred to the Committee on Education :
Also, a communication from Bro. RODERT MoRRis, of Kentucky,

80

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

[May,

relative to the publication of the "Universal Masonic Library;" which
was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts :
Also, a memorial from Quitman Lodge, Nci. 88, relative to the case
of a Feirow Craft whose advancement to the third degree had been
objected to :
Also, a communication from Yuba Lodge, No. 39, containing the
report of a committee of that Lodge, as adopted, in regard to certain
charg~s against Bro. A. MAURIOE, Jr., sent to said Lodge by order of
the Grand Lodge at its last Communication :
.
And also, a petition from Ione Lodge, No. 80, for perm1ss10n to rcballot upon the application of a Fellow Craft for the third degree : All which were referred to the Committee on Masonic J urisprudencc.
The Grand Secretary further presented the following communication
from the Masonic Board of Relief of the city of San lfrancisco : - ·
1b the M.-. W.·. Grand Lodge of Oalifarnia: -

The Masonic Board of Relief of the city of San Francisco, believing that your
Most Worshipful Body will learn with pleasure of the success of its ministrations
in the cause of charity during the past year, have directed me to present to you
at this Communication, a brief statement of the causes which induced its establishment, of the plau of its organization, and of the results which have attended
its operations.
For some years past it has been notorious that the Lodges of this city were frequently imposed upon by successful applicants for charity to several of them in
succession, by those whom a proper opportunity for investigation would have exhibited as utterly unworthy to receive it ; and, that even in the cases of deserving
applicants, who were strangers, it was impossible that the Lodges, at a single
meeting, should be able sufficiently to understand them, to be enabled to discriminate wisely as to the amount and mode of the relief to be afforded. So evident
was this, that as early as the year 1854 an effort was made to institute au association of the Lodges here, similar to that now existing, but it failed to be carried
into effect, - not because the plan was disapproved, but because of a lack of energy and attention to conduct it to completion. In the following year it was
again proposed, and the result was a compact between five of the Lodges, with
an invitation to the others to become parties to it, should they feel so disposed.
This went iL1to operation from the first day of January, 1856, aml its principal
features, after a recitation of the causes which led to its formation, are that a
Board of Relief should be established, to be composed of' the Masters or presiding
officers of the Lodges assenting to it, to which all applications for assistance
from Masons, or the widows and children of Masons not belonging to any Lodge
in this city, shall be sent- that a fund for the relief of such applicants should be
provided by a tax upon the Lodges, parties to the compact, levied in the manner
hereinafter exhibited- that each member of the Board should report all cases requiring relief to that body at its regular weekly meetings, or to its chairman
during the recess - and that a report should he made to each of the assenting
LodgllB, twice in every year, detailing all the transactions of the Board during the
preceding six months.
The following was its second semi-annual Report, presented to the Lodges on
the thirty first day of December, 1857 ; and as lt gives a summary of the operations of the whole year preceding, it is exhibited as it was sent fo the constituent
bodies·:-

6857.)

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNiA.

Si

" REPORT OF THE MASONIC BOARD OF RELIE}' }'OR 1'HE YEAR ENDING THIRTY-FIRST
DECEMBER, 1856.
"1b the w: Master, Wardens and Brethren of
Lodge, No. " The Masonic Board of Relief of the city of San Francisco, in submitting this
its second semi-annual report to the several Lodges which have contributed to it~
establishment, take occasion at the close of the first year of its existence, to present, not only a summary of its proceedings during the past six months but a
full and detailed account of all its transactions during the entire year.
'
"As you have before been informed, the Masters respectively of California, Parfait~
Union, Occidental, Golden Gate, e.nd Mount Moriah Lodges, (these being the five which
first assented to the compact,) assembled on the thirty-first day of J annary 1856
and organized the Board by the election of Bro. ALEX. G. ABELJ. as Chairman'
Bro. A.G. RANDALL as Treasurer, and Bro. L. C. OWEN as Secretary, the othe;
two members being Bro. LEOPOLD LEVY and Bro. C. R. SAUNDERS. In accordance
with the second article of the compact, By-Laws were adopted for the government
of the Board, and for the regulation of the manner in which the charities confided
to its care should be administered ; the most material rules of which are that reg·
ular meetings shall be held once in each week- that relief shall be granted only
to regular and worthy Masons, their widows and children - that no sum greater
than fifty dollars shall be grantetl at one time, except in extreme cases and then
only by an unanimous vote - that the Treasurer shall give satisfactor7 bonds
for the faithful discharge of his trust, and shall make weekly reports o his receipts and disbursements - and that the Chairmim be empowered during the recess of the Boarcl to grant relief' in emergent cases to the extent of twenty dollars
reporting the c11se at the next meeting for approval.
'
"On the twenty-eighth day of February, Lebanon Lodge assented to the compact, and on the thirteenth day of the following month, Bro. JACOB MAYER appeared and signed it, thus making six of the city Lodges represented in the Board·
and we have now the additional pleasure of announcing that the only remaining
one, San Fmncisco, will become associated with us from the commencement of the
coming year- thus joining together the entire Brotherhood of the city, for the
accomplishment of the charitable purposes of our organization.
"The revenue of the Board, untler the terms of the compact, has been derived
as follows: " 1. From 11 general assessment of fifty cents for each member of every Lodge,
party to the compact.
"2. From u monthly asses1m1ent of ten cents for each member, ns before and
from a charge of' five dollars for each degree conferred.
'
"3. From such donations ns those charitably dispol!Ud, might from time to
time, present to the Board, to aid it in the performance of its duties ; and
"4. :From the power in cases of emergency, to levy un extra assessment on
the Lodges of twenty-five cents for each member.
" From thel!C sourc<Js the receipts during the ycnr just terminated, have been es
follows:California - Parfaite Uuion,
Occidental,
Golden Gate,
Jft. Moriah,
Lebanon,

From Astul!1nenta:
Lodge, No. 1, for 12 months, ..................... $ 557 90
"
" 17, " 1
"
• • .. • . . . .. . .. . .. .. .. .
43 20
" 22, " 12
. . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . 147 00
" 30, " 12
" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . fi28 90

"

" 44, " 12
" 49, " 12

"

.. . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . .
..................... '

406 60
244 65

Fr01n Donations:
:'\'ett proceeds of a benefit gh-en at the Metropolitan Theatre, by Mrs.
Ju1,1A DEAN HAYNE,. ....................................... $1459 00
Contribution b~ S~n 1'1rancisco .Lodge, No. 7, to 11ssist in sending home
n Mason s widow and ch1ldren,.. . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . • . • . . . • . . . . .
25 00

Making the total of receipts, ............................ $3412 25

32

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS•

6857.]

" Thns it will be seen that all the Lodges, parties to the compact, have paid
their dues to the Board for the entire year, with the exception of Parfaite Union,
No. 17, whose pecuniary embarrassments have compelled it to remain our debtor
for its regular dues of the last eleven months, and for the extra assessment hereafter mentioned. It is believed, however, that that Lodge will ere long recover
from its misfortunes ; and the zeal which it has ever displayed in the discharg~ of
its charitable duties, gives assurance that the debt will be cancelled at the earhest
moment it may have the means to effect It.
" Bnt once dnring the past year has the Board had occasion for exercising the
power given it to levy an e:ii:tra contribution upon the Lodges. In the month of
June last unable to meet the demands upon its charity,.an extra. assessment of
twenty-ft;e cents per member was cal)ed for from,the Lo!1ge~, and, with the ~x­
ception before named, it was at once paid by all. Even this did not suffice for its
necessities and to supply the additional want, three of the Lodges advanced to
the Board the sum of $214,50, which it was afterwards enabled to repay them
from the receipts of the Benefit so kindly given by Mrs. JuLLI. DEAN HAYNE.
"A detailed tabular statement accompanies this report, showing, in accordance
with the 6th Article of the compact, the names of all to whom relief has been
afforded the date when given, the residence of the recipients, the Lodges of
which they last were members, the amounts donated, and the reasons for the donation; from which it will be seen that the disbursements during the year have
been as follows : For relief of sick, needy and destitute Masons, ........•....• $ 660 00
" Relief of the wives, widows and children of Masons,.. . . . . 648 00
" Passages paid in various directions for destitute Masons,
their widows and children, ........................ lOll 50
" Funeral expenses of deceased Masons, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 165 00
Making a total for charity, of......•................ $2484 50
In addition to this, there has been disbursed for blank books,

stationery, and other necessary expenses,.... . . . . . . .

35 00

Being a total eA11enditure of ........................ $2519 50
. " The foregoing sum of $2484,50 has been distributed as follows : To 1 case from Alabama, .•.... $281 50!
Amount brought forward, $1212 50
" 1 "
" Arkansas,. . . . . . 20 00 To 3 cases from M~ssach_usetts,... 45 00
" 5 "
" California,. • . . . 118 00 " 4 "
" Missouri,.... . . . . 185 00
" 1 "
" Connecticut,.... 85 00 " 2 "
" New Jersey,.... 60 00
" 3 ''
" Dist. Columbia,. 155 00 "21 "
" New York, ..... 380 00
" 3 "
" Georgia,. • . • . . . 95 00 " 3 "
" Oregon,........ 35 00
" 1 "
" Indiana,. . . . . . . 40 00 " 1 "
" Pennsylvania, . . 50 00
" 1 "
" Iowa,.. . . . . . . . . 20 00 " 1 "
" Rhode Island,.. . 50 00
" 1 "
Kentucky,.... . . 10 00 " 6 "
" South Carolina, 80 00
" 16 "
" Louisiana, ..... 323 00 " 3 "
" Texas,....... . . 30 00
" 1 "
" Maryland,.. . . . . 65 00 " 3 "
England,....... 50 00
" 12 "
" France,..... .. . 247 00
Amount carried forward,. $1212 50 " 3 "
" Ireland, . . . . . . . 60 00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN1A.

month ; and that the Treasurers of the Lodges respectively, be directed to pay
over the amount of the assessment due in accordance with said statement, to the
Treasurer of the Board without delay.
"All of which is respectfully submitted.
" By order of the Board,

"L. 0. OWEN, Secretary."
Thus it will be seen that five Lodges in the city of San Francisco have diE·
bursed in charity to sojourning brethren, their widows and orphans, within le!lll
than a year, the sum of $2484,50, besides the sums bestowed among the needy
and destitute of their own membership, these being expressly excluded from the
jurisdiction of the Board. The moneys thus additionally expended amount in
the aggregate to about $1500, making a total expenditure for benevolence of
nearly $4000 within the past twelve months.
Even this sum does not represent the whole amount which we should have been
compelled to disburse, had it not been for the charitable generosity of others ;
and we arc happy to have the opportunity thus to express the great obligations
we are under to the liberality of the Pacific llfail Steamship Company and the
California Steam Navigation Company. The first, through its agents in this cit.y,
Messrs. FORBES and BABCOCK, has always made generous deductions from their
usual charges, in the cases of pa~sengers sent home to the Atlantic States by this
Board; and the last, by its President, Bro. SAMCEL J. HENSLEY, has ever carried
free upon all their river steamers, those whom we were aiding to reach any part
of the interior.
The system has been found to work admirably. Time and opportunity is afforded by it to examine thoroughly the merits and requirements of each application ; and thus while imposition is prevented on the one hand, real need is certainly cared for on the other, and there is tolerable assurance that the funds
collected for charity are disbursed as wisely and judiciously as human fallibility
will permit.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ABELi,,
Chairman Miuonic Board of Rdiif.

Which communication was referred to the Committee on Finance
and Accounts.
Bro. A. G. ABELL, from the special committee appointed at the last
Communication "to revise the Constitution, &c.," presented the draft
of a new Constitution ; which was received and made the special order
for this afternoon.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock, this afternoon.

96 applicants for relief, ......................................... $2484 50
"RECAPITULATION.
"Total amount receipts by the Board, ............••..••..•....... $3412 25
"
"
disbursements, • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2519 50
Balance in Treasury Dec. 31, 1856,.............. $892 75
" In concluding this report we take the occasion to request that the Lodges will
direct their respective Secretaries to furnish the Secretary of the Board, on the
last day of each month, with a statement of the.number of membersth~n borne
upoµ the roll of the Lodge, and of the number of degrees conferred durmg that

Jn Qi)ranb .!obgc.
AFTERNOON SESSION,

}

Wednesday, May 13th, A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Gran~
Master presiding.

5

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS • .

t.Ma1 ,

The Grand Master presented a petition from Naval Lodge, No. 87,
11Sking that certain names now borne upon its charter, may be stricken
off;
And an appeal of Bro. B. ROGERS from the action of Ophir Lodge,
No·. 33, by which Bro. A.H. PUTNEY was acquitted of certain charges
preferred against him in that Lodge ; - Both which were referred to
the Committee on Grievances.
The Grand Secretary presented a memorial from certain brethren of
the Hebrew faith, residing in Marysville, praying the Grand Lodge to
take some action relative to a late alleged declaration by the Grand
Lodge of Hanover that Masonry is exclusively a Christian institution;
which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Correspondence.
Ile also presented a petition from Nebraska Lodge, No. 71, asking
a remission of its dues for the past year; which was referred to the
Committee on Finance and Acconnts.
The special order, being the consideration of the proposed new Conistitution presented at the morning session, was then taken up ; a.nd
after some discussion, it was ordered·that its further consideration be
postponed until the next Annual Communication, and that it be printed
with the proceedings for distribution among the Lodges.
Bro. A. G. ABELL, from the Committee on Foreign Correspondence,
presented the following report: 1b the M. ·. W. '. Grand Lodge of California : THE.Committee on Foreign Correspondence have again had the pleasant, though
tiresome privilege of examining the printed transactions of thirty-one American Grand Lodges, together with sundry communications from Masonic hodie1
in Canada and in Europe ; and again they present the results of their labors in
preparing nn abstract of the several thousand pages which they have carefull1
read and noted. The proceedings received since the commencement of our last
Annual Communication are as follows : - ·
ALABAMA, .....for Dec., ... . 1855. MICHIGAN, •..... for Jan., ... 1856.
"
" " •• . . 1856. MrnNEsorA, .... " .fan.,.....1856.
ARKANSAS, .... " Nov., ...•1855. M1ss1ssIPPI, .... " Jan.,...•. 1856.
CONNECTICUT,. " ~foy, .. .. 1856. M1ssou1u, ...... " May, . • .• 1856.
DELAWARE, ... " June, ... 1856. NEw JERSEY, ... " June, ... 1856.
FLORIDA, ..... " .Tan., .... 1856. NEwYoRK, ..... " June, ... 1856.
GEORGIA, .. . . . " Oct., ... 1855. NORTH CAROLINA, " Dec., .... 186/i.
ILLINOIS,. .... " Oct., ... 1856. Omo, .......... " Oct., .•.. 1866.
INDIANA, ...... " May, .... 1856. OREt>ON,....... . " June, •... 1856.
lowA,. . . .. . ... " June, ... 1856. RHODE faLAND, .. " June,..•. 1856.
KANSAS, . ... .. " March, .. 1856. SouTH CA.Roi.INA, " Dec., . ... 1855.
KENTUCKY, .. . " Oct., .... 1856. TENNESSEI!!, ..... ,, Oct, . . .. 1856.
LOUISIANA, .. . " Feb., .... 1856. TEXAS .. ... .. ... " Jan.,. ... 1856.
111AINE, . ... ..... l\!ay, .... 1856. VERMONT,..••... " Jan., .....1856.
MARYLAND, . . . " Nov., ... 1855. VmarNIA, ...... " Dec., .... 1856.
MASSACHU8E1'TS " Dec., .. . . 1856. WrncoNSIN,J ..... " June •.... 1856.

6857.]

GRAND LOOGE OF CALIFORNIA.

86

Together with the Grand Lodge of Scotland's Reporter for 1856, a. Circular
from the Provincial Grand Lodge of Cnnada West, and several publications
from the Grand Lodges of Germany.
No communications have been received during the past year from the Grand
T.odges of the District of Columbia, New Hampshire, and Pennsylvania ; and
we again beg leave to remind some of our brother Grand Secretaries of the
venerable antiquity of a portion of those we have received. The many other
laborious duties which the action of the Grand Lodge at its last Communication
Imposed upon the writer of this report, in addition to bis almost constant employment in the affairs of the Grand Secretary's office, have rendered it impossh
hle for him to bestow as much time and care to the preparation of this paper, ns
under other circumstances he would have wished ; and it is hoped that this will
prove a sufficient apology for the hurried manner in which most of it has been
Indited. It is probably long enough, even as it is, and without further preface
we begin with the proceedings of
ALABAMA.
Since our last report the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of this State for
the years 1855 and 1856. have been received. The Annual Communication for
1855. was begun at the City of Montgomery, on the third day of December-the
H.·. W.·. STKRLING A. M. Woon, Grand Master, presiding, nnd the R.·. JV.·. AMAND
P. PFISTER being Grand Secretary,
·
The Address of the Grand Master, like the papers of a. similar character which
emanated from bis predecessor, is an able and business-like production, detailing the prominent events which 'flave occurred during the vacation, and reviewing and commenting upon those matters about to be.brought to the attention of
the Grand Lodge. It will be recollected that we last year noticed a. vexed question, which for two or three years past bas occupied much of' the attention of
our brethren of Alabama,- the proposed partition, among the Lodges, of a fund
amounting to some $17,000, which had originally been intended for educational
purposes. This had finally been decided at the preceding Communication, and
11 division was ordered to be made ; but owing to some error in the proceedings,
the committee to whom the partition was entrusted were unable to proceed, and
the matter was a.gain in abeyance for another year. It would seem that the
Grand Master bad heretofore favored the project of distribution, but he now confe11ses ihat his views have undergone a. change in that respect, and that he believes, in the words of Grand Master CLOPTON, the year preceeding, that it would
be " almost tantamount to a waste of the funds." The Grand Lodge, however,
unfortunately as we think. entertained a different opinion, and the partition bas
been finally made ; thus dividing among more than two hundred Lodges a sum
which, had it been husbanded together, would have formed a splendid basis of a
fund for the endowment of some Masonic institution of charity or education.
Bro. Woon urges the necessity for a uniform system of work; nnd we remark
tbatat a later period a committee recommended the abolition of the present system of Grand Lecturers, and a return, as the lesser evil of the two, to the former
practice of exemplification at the Annual Communications. A considerable portion of the addreSA is devoted to a recommendation that steps be ta.ken for the
preparation of a wo;k upo~ the early history of Masonry i? that State, a._nd that
t!omething be done for the mcrease of the Grand Lodge Library. .The 1BSue of
seven Dispensations for new Lodges is recorded. He recommends the plan for
~ National.Confederation of Grnnd Lodges, and the Grand Lodge bas assented
by the adoption of the Articles prepared at Washington.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence was again presented by Bro. DANIEL
SAYRE. He quotes at some length from the Address of the Grand Master of this
State in 1855, and presents the resolutions offered by your Committee on Foreign
Correspondence at the Communication of that year. He also copies the "Ancient
Landmarks" as laid down in the new Constitution of the Grand Lodge of New
York, which we quoted at the time, and this is adverted to only to correct an error
into which either Bro. SAYRE or the printer has fallen, in saying that all these
" are acknowledged and held to by the Grand Lodge of California, except a part
of the fifteenth and ninet,eenth." These f\Vo we presented no objection to, the first
setting forth only the undisputed fact that initiation makes a. man a Mason, etc. ;

36

JOUIUlA.L or PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

and the le.et declaring that none but one who has served as a Warden can be
elecied Me.eter of a chartered Lodge, which, though not in accordance with our
pr11.ctice here, we made no comment upon. But it,was to the tenth and eleventh Articles that we objected, those referring to that so-called prerogative of a Grand
Maater to make Masons " at sight i" and those who are acq11ainted with the unlucky experience with which this lirand Lodge has been afilicted in thRt respect,
will not be surprised that we prefer to have our Masonic introductions made due
at tllwty day., with the proper endorsement of a Lodge.
We are pleased to see that Bro. Sayre entertains opinions similar to those expreMed by ourselves in our le.et report, relative to that new test introduced by
Ohio, which require& that a candidate should express a bdief in "the divine authenticity of the Holy Scriptures," before he can be made a Mason. In our remarks last year upon this subject, which had been somewhat violently treated
b:f; the chairman of the Con1mittee on Foreign Correspondence of Iowa, we
!!aid:-

6857.]

37

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

quency of this kind of legislation in Grand Lodges - the grave enactment of
the commonest truisms, without the faintest shadow of that mandatory and penal character which alone could make them of any use. Some well-meamng
and most zealous brother, more anxious perhaps to do good than skilled in the
method of accomplishing it, or, it may be, a little desirous to see his name in
the published proceedings In jtixtaposition with a moral sentiment, offers a resolution involving simply the assertion of the most palpable truth, and the Grand
Lodge, good-naturedly, most solemnly resolves that it is really true. We do
not speak of this here with any especial desire to find a mote in the eye of our
brethren in Alabama, for we have a beam In our own of much more imposing
proportions. At our Communication in May, 1854, it was with all due solemnity
"Re1olvtd, That the stern morality of Masonry is J'racticahle ; and that we pledge
the inOuence. of this Grand Lodge in sustaining it, an recommend to all subordinate
Lodges to see that their members exemplify the same iu their lives nnd conduct.''
Of what particular use this resolution, or others like it, can b.c'. we are unable to determine. Laws shou~d be laws, and not abstract opm1ons ; and it
seems worse than usele~ to lumber up the records with crude ideas, done into
wordy resolutions which bear no semblance of command, and which, if they
did, would be certain to be disobeyed. If we wish to prohibit a "retail traffic
in alcoholic liquors," or any unbending from " the stern morality of Masonrr.''
let us do so in terms, and provide a punishment for disobedience to the edict.
Or, better still, let us cease asserting, by resolution, an hundred things which
the moral law, the spirit and lessons of our Order, and the plainest common
sense hnd long since established. In brief. let ua not legiF!ate for Duncombe.
The financial reports show the revenue for the year to have been $3950. The
disbursementR were $2680 ; and there remained a balance In the treasury of
$4810. Besides this, the "Trust Fund" out at interest amountell to $11,6'1'3,
and it was out of both these, we suppose, that the $17 ,000 was tRken for distribution among the Lodges. Two hundred and seventeen chartered Lodges appear upon the registry, as now existing, being an increase of nine since our last
report. The Communication continued five days, and the Grand MaRter and
Grand Secretary were both reelected.

"We have yet to lenru that Masonry is especially a Christian institution, or that it is a
religious one at all; and while we doubt not lhat our own faith in 1he Divine authenticity
of the Holy Writings, both Old and New, is quite as implicit as lhat of our Christian
brother of lowa, we do not forget that there is a very large number of our brethren, os
~ood and worthy Masons as ourselves, who•e belief does not and r.annot extend so far.
The precepts of Masonry are moral, not religious, and a declaration of belief in God is
re';luired, not only for the reason given to the candidate upon his entry, but because there
is ~1ttle guarantee.t~at a m~n will obey the moral law, who does not give credence to the
ex1s.tence of a D1vme Arbiter of our future state of being. 'Masonry,' we are lold,
'umtes men of every country, sect :and opinion,' and as our own traditions date its origin at a 1;1eriod long anterior to the advent of the Messiah, the attempt to introduce this
new test is not only an evident invasion of the primal law, but is n pafpable contradiction
of .the very history which we teach and P,rofess to believe. There is no law of Masonry
which should prevent the fraternity of Christian$, Jews and Mahometans; and that Brotherly Love, 'by which we are taught to regard the whole human species as one family,'
and .' whi~h conciliates true ~riendship among thosi; who might, (but for their Masonic
relat1onsh1p,) have ever remamed at a perpetual distance,' 1s the very foundation, life
and spirit of the institution.''
Bro. Sayre quotes the proceedings of Ohio in this respect at length, and then
thus exhibits the error of the proposition of that Grand Lodge by its own proceedings:"At the opening of the Communication of thP. Grand Lodge at which this report was
adopted, the Grand Master congratulated the brethren that 1\lasonry was spreading in
Turkey, and reviving in China. Now neither the Turks nor the Chinese believe in the
New 'testament. The Jews are everywhere admitted into our Lodges, but they do not
believe in the New Testament any more than the others. In fact, we are constantly
told that pure and unadulterated Masonry, or traces of it, may be found all over the
world- among the civilized and the savage - among those even who bave never heard
that lhere was such a thing as the Bible. Either lhese reports must be the merest fables,
or a belief in the authenticity of the Scriptures is not necessarv in the Mason. The
Jews, the followen of Confucius, and the Mahomedans, all reject either the New Testament, or the Old, or both, and yet we see no good reason why they should not be made
Masons. In fact, Blue Lodge Masonry has nothing whatever to do with the Bible. It is
not founded upon the Bible; for if it was, it would not be Masonr_y, but religion. Masonry' is merely a charitable institution. " # * * That some Masons may teach the
Divine authenticity of the Holy Scriptures is true, because some Masons are Christians;
but .Maa011ry does nothing. of t~e. sort., leavi.nir every ma.n to his ~wu opinions upon that
subject, as 11 does upon his polihcs, bis rehg1on, and his profe881on. Masonry ouly inquires if the candidate for mitiation possesses the proper physical qualities; if he be
free-born, of lawful age, under the tongue of good report, and properly vouched for :
then, if he believes in the existence of a God, he is a proper candidate for our sublime
mysteries.''
Among the resolutions adopted at this Communication we note the following: " Re6olvtd, That the retail traffic in alcoholic drinks is demoralizing in its tendency,
opposed to the principles of the Order, and the1efore inconsistent with the Masonic char-

1856. -The Annual Communication of this year was commenced at the City
of Montgomery, on the first day of December, - thq, M:.
STEitLING A. M.
Wooo, Grand Master, presiding, Rnd the R:. W:. AMAND P. PFISTE!t being
Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master openR with a kindly tribute to the nieIIJDry of
the late Grand Master of Georgia, the lrl.'. W.-. WM. C. D.1.waoN, who departed
this life since our last Communication. He alludes to the case of a brother who
had presented an application for permission to withdraw mtirel.y from Masonry,
and "be placed in the same situation be would have occupied ha~ he never
joined the Fraternity;" the request being bRscd, not upon any unfriendly feeling to ihe Order, but upon conscientious scruples, he having become I\ member
of a church which was opposed to all secret societies, and heing desirous t.o
conform strictly to its rules. Bro. Wooo of course decided that the most bis
Lodge could do would be to grant him a demit.
"There is no Masonic law," said he, "forbidding his withdrawal from an .active pa~­
ticipation with his brethren in Masonic duties, but no power could release him from !us
moral and personnl obligatiou to perform them . * * * " * lf 1he brother who had
r.onnected himself with a church whose discipline forbade him to he a member of a secret
society felt that his conscience would not allow him to remain affiliated with the Lodge
and a participant of its labors - if he believes that such an association w.as ~n impediment
to him in his efforts to reach a happy home, where, after the trials of this hfe are ended,
'the wicked cease from troubling and th.e weary !1re at restl -then .it wa~ his duty to
withdraw, and we can only commend him to go m peace. tiut let him be mform~d that
it is still obligatory upon him to conduct himself iu such a manner as not to brmg reproach on us; and that, having once freell consented to obey the moral law, no power
on earth can absolve him from that duty.'·

W'ithont pausing to inquire why the wholaale traffic of a similar kind should
have been excluded from denunciation, we quote this only to point out the fre-

The Grand Master is in favor of the n.bolitiou of the system of Grand Lecturers, as was proposed the preceding year, ~nd strongly recommends in its
stead the appointment of District Deputy Grand Masters, as being more likely

acter."

·

w..,

.
38

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

to produce the order and uniformity so much desired. This met with the approval of the Grand Lodge, and though the Lecturers could not be discontinued until the Constitution could be altered, at a later period of the proceedings
nine District Deputies were app,ointed. He reports that the lon" talked of distribution ~f the ''.Trust Fund, ' so often ordered, had not yet taken place, as a
great portion of 1t was loaned and had not been collected, We perceive however, that it was directed that the amount now on hand should be at on'ce divided, and the committee who had the matter in charge, reported that one fifth
of the whole was ready for the Lodges. He again urges the collection of mate.rials for a Mas?ni~ Hist?ry of the State, and a pr~vision for a Gra~d Lodge
Library ; and this time with good effect- $500 havmg been appropriated for
the purchase of miscellaneous Masonic works, and $100 for - - copies of
Mitchell's proposed Masonic History ; the Grand Secretary being likewise instructed t.o purchase two .sets of Morris's Unive~al Masonic Library, and one
copy of his Code of Masomc Law for each Lodge'1n the State. The issue of Dis·
pensations for five new Lodges is recorded. He concludes with a eulogy upon
the present system of Foreign Corresvondence, and announces the termination
of his official connection with the Grand Lodge.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence this year is by Bro. R.H. ERVIN, and
is ~ore ?rief than usual. A very ~indly notice is given to the Grand Lodge of
Califoyma, and a cou.rteous word 1s spoken for the writer of its reports. The
establishment of the rndependent "Grand Lodge of Canada" is commented
upon, and after giving some good reasons for discountenancing that body Bro.
ERVIN presented the following resolution, which was adopted : '
. "!l-esolve~, 1:hat the Grand Lodge of Alabama can not at present recognize the organ·
1zabon stylmg 1tselfthe Grand Lodge of Canada, as a legitimate body.''

An Address was delivered by the Grand Orator, Bro. JOHN DARBY, and jewels

w~re voted to several Past Grand Masters. The tlnancial reports show the rec~1pts to have been $4061, and there was in the treasury (before the distribu-

t10n) $9512, in cash, and $10,707 of the" Trust Fund" in loans not yet collected. Two hundred and eleven existing chartered Lodges now appear upon
the ~·egister, six less than the number of the preceding year- the Grand Lodge
havmg revoked the Charters of several for non-payment of their dues during a
period of two years. This Communication also lasted five days, the M.·. W.·. J,
MCCALEB WILEY being elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. AMAND P. Pnl:ITER
reelected Grand Secretary.
.
ARKANSAS.
The latest proceedings received from this Grand Lodge are those of its Annual Communication commenced at the City of Little Rock on the fifth day of
November, 1855- the M.·. W.·. NAT. G. SMITH, Grand Master, presiding, and tho
R.·. W.·. THos. D. MERRICK being (}rand Secretary.
The Grand Master notices the spread of Masonry among the tribes in the ad~oi~ing Indian terr.itory, an~ speaks highly of the advancement they have made
m its lessons and its practice. He states that he had revoked the suspension
inflicted 1Jy the Grand Lodge, at its last Communication, upon one of the subordinates which had refused to comply with an edict imposing a tax for the benefit of St. John's College, the Lodge having made due submission and paid up
the amount for which it was delinquent. Considerable space is given to the
subject of that Masonic institution of learning, and it would seem from the urgency of his appeal to the Fraternity in that State, as well as from the financial
reports in regard to the progress of collections on its account, that the project
has not advanced as happily as was desired. Yet it is still persisted in; and
though our brethren of Arkansas have not, like those of North Carolina last
year, built a college by resolution, they seem determined to persevere in the
work they have thus commenced. Our best wishes go with them, though we
ourselves are not in favor of turning the energies and resources of the Order in
that direction. Bro. Smith urges a more strict enforcement of the law relative
to gambling, profane swearinp; and intemperance, announces the issue of fourteen Dispensations for new Lodges, and concludes with a recommendation
that the Grand Lodge pay the expeuses of the Grand Officers in attending at its
Communications.

6857.]

GRAND LoDGE or OALIFORNIA.

89

Bro. LUKE E. BARBER, Past Grand Master of Arkansas, presented credentials
as the Representative of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana ; and the acquaintance
we have formed with him from the reading his addresses, induces us to congratulate both Grand Lodges upon so happy an appointment. There is no report on Foreign Correspondence, and we sadly miss the name and works of Bro.
ALBERT PIKE at this Communication. We remark that the Charter of a J,odge
was revoked, most deservedly, because it had refused to suspend or expel an unworthy member. One hundred dollars was appropriated for addition! to the Li·
brary. The financial reports show the receipts of' the year to have been $1701,
the balance on hand to the credit of the general fund, $1020, and the amount of
the College Fund, $801 in cash, and $14,319 in notes. Ninety-five chartered
Lodges, and four under Dispensation now exist in this State, being an increase
of thirteen since our last report. The Communication continued five days, and
the Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected.
CONNECTICUT.
The Grand Lodge of this State commenced its Annual Communication for the
year 1856, at the City of New Haven, on the fourteenth day of May,- the M.·.
JV.·. THEODORE SPENCER, Grand Master, presiding, and the 'R.·. W.·. EI.IPHALET
G. STORER being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is devoted principally to matters of local inter·
est. He notices sadly the decease of B1.·o. WILLIAM H. ELLIS, a Past Grand Mas-.
ter of Connecticut, and gives a brief eulogy upon his character. He announces
the issue of one Dispensation for a new Lodge, and recommends an increase of
the revenue of the Grand Lodge, its present resources being entirely insufficient
to meet the demands upon its treasury. He suggests a thorough revision of the
By-Laws and Permanent Resolutions of the Grand Lodge, many of them having become inoperative, and others requiring alteration ; and concludes by de·
clining to be a candidate for reelection.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is again from the pen of Bro.
WILLIAM STORER, and when we remarked in one portion of it the expression of his "ardent desire to make this a short report," it was impossible to repress a feeling of the deepest sympathy with the gratification he must
have experienced at finding that he· had actually been enabled to compress it
within the brief space of ninety-four octavo pages, principally of brevier. Jesting aside, however, we do not quarrel with long reports, having to some extent
afflicted our own Grand Lodge in that respect ; and it is impossible not to ad·
mire the amount of labor bestowed, as well as the zeal and ability displayed by
Bro. STORER in this department of Masonic literature. He speaks in terms of
high commendation of the Address of the Grand Master of California in 1866,
and quotes largely from its pages. He is in favor of the proposition that all
Masons, whether members ot' the Lodge or not, should be permitted to vote in
any Lodge upon the question of admitting candidates ; and is a firm advocate
of the absolute righJ, to visit. The tlrst of these questions is rather a new one,
and as we can not perceive that any benefit to the Order would ensue from the
change of a custom almost universal, even did we wish such change, we shall
not pause to discuss it. The second, we have had occasion to express our opinions upon before, and the Grand Lodge of this State has agreed with Maryland
and Ohio in that respect. Bro. ST01i&n quotes largely from the proceedings of
Vermont in reference to the new" Grand Lodge of Canada,'' and offers a resolution recognizing thnt organization, which we perceive was not adopted by the
Grand Lodge. He is opposed to a regulation of' Kentucky which permits the
Lodges to elect representatives in the Grand Lodge, when the proper officers
can not attend, insisting that the Master and Wardens only can appoint proxies,
" for the very good reason," as he says, " that the Lodge is not a member of the
Grand Lodge, and therefore has no right to be a representative." We must
beg leave to differ with our learned brother of Connecticut in this respect.
Whether a Lodge has the right " to be a representative " or not, there can be
little doubt that it has a right to be represented. Grand Lodges at the present
day are in effect the Legislatures of .the Fraternity, and as the Masters and
Wardens are elected for the purpose, among other things, of representing their
respective Lodges in the Grand Lodge, if, from any cause, it becomes impossi-

I~

' .

40

6851.]

jouRNAL or PROO.EEDINGB.

ble for them to fulfill that duty we think it eminently proper that the same authority whence they would bav~ derived their rep_resentative right, s~ould be
invoked to devolve it upon others. We are republl~an . enough to believe that
it is the Lodge - the congregation of Masons-which 1e to be represented, and
not the Master and the Wardens ; and if this belief be wrong, then New York
and many other States, as well as Kentucky, have. gone as~rf!-Y· .we perce~ve
that Bro. STORER has caught the infection from <?h10, as exh1b1ted m the Ch;1stian test there first proposed (if we recollect. ar1~~t) to be ~dded to the t1mehonored Masonic one. He offers a resolution that can!1idates for Masonry
should be required to avow their belief, not only in t~e existe.nce of God, but
in the Divine authenticity of His word, as revealed ID · the Bible.'.' \ye have
already adverted to the opinions we la.st year expreF.sed upon this po1Dt, and
have only now to say that, notwithstanding our high regar!1 for the .chairm~n of
the Connecticut Committee, and our sincere respect for his Mo.sonic erudlllon
and usually sound conclusions, we are well pleaserl to see .t~at the Grand Lodge of
that really Christian State refused to assent to a proposition s~ utterly destr~ct­
ive of the idea of universality which lies at the very. foundat10n of o.ur Institution A resolution requesting other Grand Lollges, ID accordance with the regulations of Connecticut and onr own, to prohibit the initiation of candidates
from other jurisdictions than their own, was presented and adop.t ed; and Br_o.
STORER concludes with a very handsome and well-deserved tr1b.ute to Jlefief
Lodge; No. 1, in Louisiana, for its charitable exertions and expenditures d.unng
the past four years. The comp.liment was .re?llered all the more substantial by
the successful offer of a resolut10n appropriating $100, and by a call up?n t~e
subordinates for further subscriptions, to remun~rate that L?dge for its disbursements on account of sick and needy Masons ~roll!- Connecticut.
A committee we.~ appointed to revise the Const1t.ution, By-Laws, and Permanent Resolutions · a circular was ordered to he issued to th~ L?dges In the
State, asking for 6ontributions to the Putnam Monument Ass~1at1on; .and the
subject of a " National Confederation," here~fore apparently viewed with some
favor WIUl indefinitely postponed. The receipts for the year were $479, the expendltnres were $589, and there remained in the treasury, in c11:5h and ~tocks, a
balance of $1122. Fifty-six chartered Lodges. and one under D1spensat10!1 now
appear in the r eturns as existing, being three more ~ban were recor.ded ID our
last report. The Grand Lodge completed its labors ID two..days, having electe~
the M:. lV:. Wu.LIAM L. BRNWER Grand Master, and reelected the R:. lV. •
ELIPHALET G. STORER Grand Secretary.
D E LAWARE.
The Gmnd Lodge of Delaware held its Annual Communication at the City of
Wilmington on the twenty-seventh day of June, 1856-the R:. 1".·.THOMA!I J.
PHILLIPS, Senior Grand Warden, presiding, and the R:. lV:. DANIEL R. WoU'E
being Grand Secretary.
.
There w!Ul no Address the Gro.nd Master, the M: . W:. JAM.ES BooTH, hav10g
departed this life on the 'twenty-ninth day of March preceding. Suitable resolutions of r espect for his memory were adopted, and. the halls ?f the ~rand Lodge
and its subordinates were ordered to be clothed with mourning durm~ the year.
One new Lodge was chartered o.t this Communication, and we notice that a
special meetin(;' of the Grand Lodge had been holden to inst~ll the ?fficers of o.
Lodge just created by Dispensation. This strikes us o.s at variance with the general opinion tho.t the officers of Lodges, U. D., should not be installed ; and we
are the more emboldened to consider it as a departure from. tl.1.e acoepted usag~,
as, ho.ving had occo.sion to notice in our report of 185~ a s1m1lar oc?urrence ill
Connecticut the enlightened chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondenco of that State in his report before us, acknowledges the error, and says
that it will probably n~t occur o.gain in that jurisdiction. After all, 11 Charter
was r efused to the new Lodge at this Communication..
The Committee on Foreign Correspondence, of which Bro. SAMUEL GuTH~IE
appears to be the chairman, presented rather a remarkab~e report. After na!DIDg
the several Grand Lodges from whence copies of proceedm~s had been rece1v~d,
he quotes the article of the Constitution of Delaware, wh!ch .defines the duties
of that committee to be " to receive o.nd n.nswer all commurucat1ons, and to repor\

GRAND LODGE OF OALil'ORNIA.

to the Grand Lodge, at every Communication thereof, the substance of the communications received and copies of the answers given ; .,, and then proceeds u
f<>llows :--

I

I•

" Communications then, which require or imply an answer- these only lie within the
province of this committee. But for some years pasi, following the example of similar
committees in other States, ihP. Committee of Correspondence of this Grand Lodge hat
tran~gressed the li~it of .i~ constit_utional powers, and has at length reaehe.d a pomt out
of sight entirely of its ortgmal design and purposes. It has become a Jcg1slativl' bodJ.
A mass of Jaws might be compiled from the labors of these committees, equal in volume
to the 'l'andects ' or the ' Institutes.' It bas assumed big·h Judie.in! function s. With
amazing IJIOdesty it reviews, overrules, and reverses the decisions of Grand Masters in
cases regularly before them, as well as the recorded determination of Grand LodgP.s
U.J>On questions carefully considered end solemnly adjud~·~d . It has become the Public
Censor'!~ Masonic morals and Ma_sonic mRnners. . It has ta_ken up the trade of lhll literary crillc. It affects the reputat100 of the essayist. It writes profound end 11ni11telligible prose. It explains ' the relations of Freemasonry to the moral and religious element in man, and its afli11ily for the religions of the world." It looks very wise, a11d
talks like a Philosopher. M11ny other thinga, also it has come to be and to do, away
I ram the purpose ot its institution, which we will let pa8s. 7'/ii• only we will odd that
its reports have in many cases been made the channels of flattery, 1tsq1~ ad tllluua:n 011
the one side, a11d of reseotmcnt, uncharitabl~ness, and envious disparagement on' the
other. .Now llll these thiugs, except the last, it were well enough to have; nay, indeed
1hese things, all of them, we perhaps mwt havo-lnw-makcrs, judges, critic•, cen•ors'
!'"d in the present condition of sublunary things, tvriters also of unintelligible prose. Bui
111 our notion, a Committee of Correspondence is not so constituted as properly to perform these variou1 and incompatible functions. To do so was not the purpose of its
creation, and the attempt so to do threatens to involve i11 inextricable confusion the History, Law, Landmarks, and Ancient Usages of the Order.
" Holding these \'iews, we think to discharge our duty to the Grand Lodge by simply
declaring tllat we have received no communications during our official term, nor consequently have dispatched any answers which require to be laid hefore them."
It is generally believed that the consciousness of having well performed a

duty is calculnted to produce the most soothing n.nd gratifying reflections and
wc c11n Imagine the seraphic state of fei•llng with which our good-natured
brother of Delo.ware luid down his pen at the conclusion of the forc~oing deeply i1Dpressed with the satisfactory certainty that he had done all which the
Constitution required-ab8olutely nothing; And yet he should have bud somu
misgivings. Had the report consisted only of its concluding paragraph, he
would to the letter have fulflllcd that which he understands to be the duty prescribed in the articlo quoted. But ha., he not somewhat triinscended bis own
construction of that duty by ~tepping beyond the very narrow limit it providcH
\o lay his literiiry scourge upon the shoulders of a score or more committees'
from whom be has "received no communications," and to whom conecquently
he should have reported no answers? In all seriousness, what though some " unintelligible prose " may have been written in these reports i there ls certainly
much, very much, and we believe Bro. GuTIIRIE will admit it, that Is not only
irftelligible, but most useful and instructive in them ; 11nd to their n.ppearance
to the comparison of opinions l\lld discussions of mooted points which they bav~
presented, is mainly to be attributed the comparat ive uniformity of decisions
1md practice which now prevails throughout the United State11. We will admit
that they Ii.ave at times been sufficiently presumptuous to differ even with Grand
Mas.t ers, nnll we hope the shock will not be too great for our loyal brother of
Delaware, when we a.vow tlle belief that, judgi11g from the printed proceedings
we have received, the committecs a1·c occ11Slonally much the most intelligent of
the two. We will also admit, and we are sorry to be compelled t.o do so, that
they have sometimes been made the vehicles for t he exhibition of vanity. flattery, and ill-humor ; but these arc the exceptions, not the ~eneral rule, and it
wo.s hardly well-considered thus pugnaciously t o " pitch in ' to all committeedom, to punish the errors of some ofl'endiug individual.
The receipts for the year were $ 180, and the disbursements $88. Ten chartered Lodges exist in Dell\ware. being the same number reported by us in 5855.
A single day sufficed for tho purposes of the Commuuication, the .M:. W: •• AI.PRED P. UonINsoN being elected Grand Master, nnd the R. •• W.·. D..1.Nlll!L R.
WOLFE reiilected Grand Secretary.
·

6
'•

joURNAL Oll' PROOBEDINGS:

[May,

FLORIDA.
,
This Grand Lodge commenced its Annual Communication for the year 1856
at the City of Tallahassee, on the fourteenth day of January-the H.·. W.·. Rieu·
J.RD A. SHINE, Grand Master, presiding, and the W.·. JoHN B. TAYLOR being
,
·Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master Is comparatively brief. He records the decease of two Past Graud 111.ast.ers of Florida, the M.·. W.·. Brothers Is.1..1.c · H.
BRONSON and THOM.ls Dououss, and of a Past Grand Chaplain, the Rev. WIL·
LUM CHOICE. Proper resolutions of'mourning and respect were adopted by the
Grand Lodge. One Dispensation for n new Lodge is announced. He invites
attention to th~ subject of the National Confederation, and we remark that a resolution agreeing to it was adopted. He recommends the " Model Form of By·
Laws" for the use of subordinate Lodges, by Bro. RonERT llloRRIS, of Kentucky,
and suggests their adoption by the Lodges of Florida; and at a later period·a
commit.tee to whom the subject was referred, affirm the recommendation.
Upon the subject of withdrawals, this Grand Lodge expresses the opinion thiit
no brother should request one except for the purpose of joining some other
Lodge, or when about to remove from the jurisdiction ; and its subordinates are
instructed not to grant demits under any other circumstance~. Our practice di!·
fers from this, and however dPsirable it may be, and is, to prevent the evil ot
non-affiliation, we cannot but believe that the forcible detention of an unwilling
member by a Lodge would be a greater one.
Florida. as might have been expected, discountenances the late rebellioua ac·
tion of Holland Lodge, No. 8, New York; and declares that Lodge, by its action,
to have become irregular aud outlawed. This case will be more particularly ad·
verted to when considering the proceedings of New York. A resolution was
adopted, consonant with the usage in this State, that Lodges under Dispensa·
tion should pay the same dues required from chartered Lodges. Another reso·
lotion was agreed to, which strikes us pleasantly as we now write, "a wee
~hort hour ayont the twal : " " Wktrta•, The nights being long and our labors arduous, R"ofotd, That the ·Tyler
be instructed to order suitable refreshments for the brethren, to be served in the ante·
room at 10 o'clock each night during the session.''
A very singular document, to be called " Anderson's Constitutions," is pre- .
sented under that name in the Appendix, and , we confess our ignorance of the
reason why an old·fas_hioned history of Masonry, from the time of Ad~m to the
reign of George the Fust, should, by order of the Grand Lodge of Florida, have
.appeared in its proceedings under that title. The financial reports show.the
total receipts to have been $1222, and the estimated expenditures $1008, leaving a balance in the treasury of $214. As nearly as we can ascertain, (no list
being given,) thirty-six chartered Lodges, and one under Dispensation, are now
borne upon the registry, being nine more than we last year reported. The Com·
munication continued four days, and the Grand Master and Grand Secretary
were both reelected.
Gl:OR.GIA.
The proceedings of the Grand Lodge of this State are, as heretofore, long In
reaching us. The latest which ~ave come to our hands !Ir~ those of its Annual
Communication begun at the City of Macon, on the th1rt1eth day of October,
1855, - the R.·. W.·. WILLIAM S. ltoCKwEJ.L, Deputy Grand Mnst.er of the fourth
District presiding, nod the W. ·. SIMRI RosE, being Grand Secretary. The Grand
Master,' the M:. W:. WILLJJ.M C. D.1.wsoN, took the chair on the second day.
No address was presented, that custom having been abolished at the preceding
Communication. Heports were made by the four Deputy Grand Masters, in the
course of which we note the following decisions given by them: -That a Mason,
stricken from the roll of his Lodge for non·payment of dues, becomes thereby
simply non·attlliated, and is eubject to. the ~uriediction of the Lod~e nearest ·tO
which he may reside ;-That an election ot Master and Wardens 1s legal only
when held on the day prescribed by the Constitution, and that if a. Lodge fa.Ila
to elect a Master on that day, or if the Master then elected rPfuses to serve, ~he
former M~tef continues in otlice ;-That a Lodge cannot reconsider the act1011
had at a previous meeth1g ;-That when a trial has been had, the Lodge ce.1111oi

6857.)

GRAND LODGE OF OALlli'ORNJA.

48

«rant a new one, nor can it set aside a sentence of expulsion once pronounced
these powers belonging only to the Grand Lodge ;-That a Lodge has the rigli
to r~fuse to any other Lodge permission to pass or ra.ise 11 candidate whom it has
Initiated, ~n~ that the Grand Master, even, cannot Interfere with such right;That a.1!1a.JOr1ty of a L?<Ige, however large, could not surrender its charter while
a requ1s1te number of its members, In good standing, were willing to ·continue
Its 'York ; -;-That the members o~ a char~red Lodge, applying for and obtaining
a Dispensation for a new one, still retamed their membership In the first until
the last was chartered, when they must elect between the two • - That charges
co.old not be preferred in a Lodge against a Mason by a person'not a member of
the Order, but that If statements were mo.de involving the Mo.sonic character of
a ,brother, the Lodge itself might proceed to investigate and determine them • And that a member of one Lodge residing in the jurisdiction of another co'uld
oµly be tr!etl In his own Lodge. Most of these opinions are in accordan~e with
the usage m ou~ own State, and with all of them we agree, except the last. A
Mason m~y r.eside for years at one extremity of the State, while retaining his
membership in a Lodge at the other; and, having com:nitted some offence at the
place pf his residence for w.hic~ he would be liable to discipline, it does not appear t~ us ~hat the ends of Justice ~·ould be w~ll su~served were it necess11ry to
~nd him, his accuser, and all t~e witnesses which might be necessary to snbstan.
tlate the charge made ago.met him, a distance perhaps of several hundred miles in
order . that a trial might be had. Few trials, where such expense and trouble
were mv~lved, woultl probably take place, and thus misconduct would frequently
~~ u~pu~1shed. We do not ~now of any particularly good reason for restricting
1
mqutry mto a Masone
behavior to his own Lodge. and it seems to us that those
amon~ who~ he resides, in whose neighborhood the alleged offence has been
committed, and near whom are to be found the witnesses for either party are far
the best qualified to determine in snch a case.
'
Three _Dispensations for new Lodges appear to have been issued. The Report
on Foreign Correspondence, presented by Bro. L. C. SIMPSON Is very brief
bare~y alluding to the several Grand Lodges from which proceedings had bee~
received. In one portion, relative to thr. subject of non-affiliated Masons we remark a very singular coincidence of opinion and of lan9ua9e with the r;port of
Bro. AIJ.cu::Y, of South Carolina, in 1854. The quotatfon marks only appear to
have ~en forgotten. A revised Constitution was adopted, in which are some
peculiar features. The Grand Lodge is to consist of the Masters of Lodges with
all Past Grand and Deputy Grand Masters, Paet Grand Wardens and Past Mas·
ters of that jnrisdictlon. The Grand Deacons are to be appointed by the first
five Grand. Officers; the first Grand Ste_ward by the Grand Master, the second
by th~ Semor Grand Warden, and the third by the Junior Grand Warden. The
tinanc1al accounts show that the total receipts for the year were $95971 the disbnrsements $8528, which included $2000 paid to the Southern Female 1\lai;onic
College, and the amount on hand in the treasury, in cash loans and stocks wa 11
812,001. One hundred and ninety-seven chariered Lodges now ackoowiedgo
allegiance to ~bis .Grand ~odge, being three more than our last report exhibited.
Tbe Commnn1cat1on contmued four days, and the Grand Master and Grand
Secretary were both reelected.
ILLINOIS.
I~ is long since we have been favored with the proceedings of this Gl'l'nd Lodge
nnttl now. Those before us are for the Annual Communication commenced at
the City of Springfield on the sixth day of October, 1856-the M.·. W:. WIL·
1.1.1.x B. ;HERRICK, Grand Master, presiding, and the R. ·. W. •• HJ.RMAN G. REY·
NoLDs bemg Grand Secretary.
The ~d.dresa of the Grand Master is devoted almost entirely to matters of
domestic import. He announces the il!Bue of thirty-Reven Dispensations to form
new Lodges, an~ congratulates the Craft upon its prosperity in that State. He
prese~ts the subject of the new Grand ~,odge of Cauada; and at a later period we
perceive tb~t the Grand Lodge determmed to postpone any action lo regard to it
~ck~owledgmg that. the brethren in Canada oughJ to have an independent organ~
iz3t1on, an~ ~xpre!lllllll( the hope t.bat the Grand Lodge of England would event·
Mlly permit it.

44

.toURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[Mau,

A new Constitution, and new Laws and Regulations for the jurisdiction, were
p111!8ed at this Communication for the consideration of the Lodges; and a uniform
cAite of By-Laws for the government of subordinates under Dispensation was
prl!P.Crlbed. We remark t.bat when the election for Grand Officers bad proeeedetl to somt~ extcat, the Grand l\la~tcr arrested tbe ballot, because the officers of
L()(lges under Di~pensat.ion had vote/I. This was <loubtle8s cort'ect., in the absence
of any express constitutioual provision giviug them the right to vote ; and we
mention it here only to point out the frequency with which the spirit and meaniug of our ownConstitutioiihas been violated by permitting the representatives of
Lodges umler Dispensation to exercise such right in the Grand Lodge as soon as
Cl.i111·ters were ordered for their Lodges. Our Constitution restricts the membership to the representat1ves of chartered Lodge~, and no Lodge can properly be
considered in that light unt.il it shall ho.vc been regularly constituted as such.
A resolution was offered to the effect that there should he but one ballot for the
three degrees, l\nd that after initiation, a Mason should not be peremptorily, and
without cause shown, stopped in his advancement; it being urged, and properly
we think, that an Entered Apprentice or a Fellow Craft should be dealt with for
Masonic offence~ in the 8amc manner as 11 Master :Mason. The resolution WRR
reforred to the Committee 011 Masonic Jurlsprndence, to be reported on at the
next Communication.
Though not much given to unnecessary praise, we take the occasion to compliment both the Grapd Secretary and the printer upon the handsome manner in
which the proceedings of Illinois are prepared. The financial reports show a
revenue for the year of $5350, and an expenditure of $3649 ; and there remained
in the treasury $5830. Two hundred aml thirteen chartered Lodges and four
nuder Dispensation uow exiFt in this State. The Communication continued four
days-the M.-. W.-. JAME8 H. HrnB.l!;D having been elected Grand Master, and
the R.-. W.-. HARMAN G. REYNOLDS reelected Gran!l Secretary.
·

INDIANA.
'l'he Grand Lodge of this State commenced its Annual Communication for the
year 1856 at, the City of Indianapolis, on the twenty-sixth day of May- the
R.·. w:-. LEWIS BURK, Senior Grrmd Warden, presiding, and the R.'. W:-. lt'RA!Wifl
K!NG being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master, the M.-. W.-. AJ,EXA.XDli:R C. DowlmY, not being present
until a later period, his address was read by thP Grand Secretary. He mentions
t'le arrest of the charter of a Lodge for having violated the jurisdiction of another
State, by conferring the degrees upon a resident thereof i and we are well pleased
to see that which has now almost universally in the Umted States become a law
in theory, thuB practically exemplified. Hll speaks of tbe multitudinous number
of letters received, and says that of most of them only two things need be said.
The first, (and to that the writer of this report can give his experience as Grand
Secretary as a voucher,) that the~ need never have been written had the writers
t:.ken the trouble to look at the Llonstitntion and Regulations; and the second,
that most extravagant ideas seemed to be entertained in regard to the powers
of 11 Grand Master, so that If it was wished that anything be done contrary to,
or not provided for in the laws of the Grand Lodge, a "dispensation" was
uHked for at once as a matter of course. We are glad to see a Grand Master
proclaim himself what in these days we think he should be, simply the executive
ufficer of the Grand Lodge, and not too ready to exercise even a doubtful power.
Ile announces the issue of thirteen Dispensations to form new Lodges during the
year ; aud speaks in glowing terms of the prosperity of the Order in that State.
A Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented, consisting only of a list of
the Grand Lodges from whom proceedings had been received. Indiana recognizes the new Grand Lodge of Canada, and greets it "as 11 legally constituted
and independent" body. A committee to whom had been referred the question
whetht:r thti Master of 11 Lodge could demit during his term, settle the point
well, as we think, and with peculiar aptness in their concluding argument.
They say'"That the being made Master of a Lodge ou,ht not to deprive the Master of any of
those rights which be enjoyed as a Mason-among which is the right to change. bis location, by moving from the jurisdiction of one Lodp lo that of another, and with such

5857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIJ;'ORNIA.

45

change of location lo change bis membership, which are onll be done by demitting from
the Lodge of which he is a member. The Grand J,odge of England, on the twenty-fifth
of November, 1793, provided 'that ;r •he Maswr of a Lodge is deposed, or demits, the
Senior Warden shall fill the chair u11t1l !tie next appointment of officers.' In the Ancient
Constitutions we find this provision: - 'If the Master goes abroad on business. resigns,
or is deposed, the Senior Warden shall fill his place, &c.' Dermott, in the· Abiman
Rezou, establi~hes the principle-' 'l'hat if the Ma.ster dies, demits.t!·esig;ns, is deposed, or
goes abroad, his 1>)ace shall be filled by the Semor Warden.' The Uraud Lodges ·or
Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, :South Carolina, and Ohio, and perhaps others, have recognized the right of a !\laster to resign or demit, 11 right which your committee think may Ile
classed among what, in other as•ociations, would be called inhennt and inalienablt rights.
They think, in fact, that the right to resign or demit is as welt established by J\lasonic
law, as the tht right to die or be deposed.''

Such is our own idea upon the subject, and we are glud to see that a resolution embodying the opimon8 q:uoted was adopted by the Grand Lodge. 'l'he
Grand Sei;retary's report exbilnts a revenue for the year of $8683, - an exiienditurc of $8446, of which $4231 was on account of the Grand Lodge Hall, and
$2844 for pay and mileage of member~ - and a balance in the treasury of $424.
One hundred and ninety-nine chartered Lodges and six under Dispensation now
ucknowledge the supremacy of this Grand Lodge, being nineteen more than we
last year chronicled. The Communication continued five days, ancl the Grand
:\faster and Grancl Secretary were both reelected.

IOWA.
The thirteenth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge or this State was
begun at the Town of Oskaloosu, on the third day of June, 1856- the R.-. W.·. G.
W. TEAS, Deputy Grand Master, presiding, and the R.-. W.·. T. S. PARVIN being
Grand Secretary.
The Address of' the Grand Master, the M. '. W.-. AYLETT It COTTON, was read by
the Grand Secretary. He cpngratnlates the Craft upon the harmony and prosperity prevailing throughout the jurisdiction ; announces the issue of twentvthree Dispensations to open new Lodges during the year ; and recommends appropriations for additions to the Library, and for the compilation of a Masonic
Hi8tory of that State. Ile al~o urges the acknowledgment of the new Graml
Lodge of Canada, and we see afterwards that the Grand Lodge adopted the report of 11 committee to whom the snbject was referred, giving a cordial recognition to that body.
No Report on Foreign Correspondence appcarK, though there was probably
one somewhere, as we uotice a resolution referring it to another committee,
"with instructions to report such rcsolntione ns may bo deemed necessary to ,
to carry out the suggestions therein setforth." We regret its 111.Jsence, as we were
anxious to hear again from Bro. WAI.LACB. 'l'hc Grand Secretary compfolns of
the non-arrival of' the proceedings of other Grand Lodges; and to some extent we
have heretofore bad occasion to sympathise with him, though we can hardl?' attrib~
ute it, as he docs, in part, to "the hostility of' Anti-Masonic \)Ostmasters,' having
uo reason to ~upposc that there is even a fossil rcmainmg of' that cla~s of
the political creation. A resolution to the effect t11at Lodges under DispenRation should not affiliute members, was rejected, -Iowa ti.ins holding, with us,
that there is no objection to mch proceeding. It was resolved to divide the
State into four or six clistricts. nnrl that the Grand Master convene the Masters
and Wardens in each. for the purpose of 11olding Grnnd Lodges of Iust,ructi1Jn.
It was also resolved that no application f.ir lnrnatlon should lie r~ceived in that
State from any one who had not resided ouc ye11r th.erein ; and this seems now
to have become the generally aer~pted law, our little eister of' Delaware to the
contrary notwitbstnndinp.
We remark that Bro. CoRXELlUH Moom1:, of Cincinnati, Ohio, delivered an Address at the lni;tallation of the officers of this Grand Lodge. From the financial
rnports the receipts appear to have lieen about $2100, and tile disbursements
91358, and there remained on band, in notes and cash, something over $2000.
Eighty-seven clmrtcred Lodges and three under Dispensation are now borne
upon the registry of Iowa, being 11n h1crease of twenty-three since our last report. The N.·. W.· • •J. It'. SANPOR11 wa8 elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W,-.

JOVBNA:t. Oli' PROCE'EDINOS.

[May,

T. S. PJ.BVIN was reelected Grand Secretary. The Comrnun!catlon lnsted three
days, and waM terminated, ae we 11re informed, by singing Burns's Masonic
Adieu!
KANSAS.
Another star has appeared In the Masonic firmament. Amid all the trouble11
which, during the past two or three yearH, have arisen In this Territory, it ap·
pears that " Freemasonry still survives; " a Grand Lodge having been established in this so lutely Indian country.
·
The first attempt at organlzafom was certainly I\ blunder, and from the subsequent action that appears to have been perceived. As early as November,
1855, "a meeting of delegates from several Masonic Lodges" was held at the
Town of Lea\•enworth, for the purpose of taking steps to form a Grand Lodge.
There were then three chartered Lodges in the Territory, from one of which
two representatives were pre@ent, and from another, one. The third Lodge be!ng absent, it ~as concluded to delay proceedings, and "the Convention adJOurued " until the twenty-seventh day of December following. On that day
the eame two Lodges only were again represented, each by a single officer, but,
singular to relate, these two Mastel'I! (with six other Masons present) proceeded
to orgnnize a Grand Lodge, to adopt a Constitution and code of By-Law~. and
to elect a full list of Grand Officers!
Refiection or better counsel seems to have come to their aid, however, and on
the seventeenth of March, 1856, "delegates from all the chartered Lodges" again
Msembled at Leavenworth, and reenacted all that which had been done before.
The same Constitution was adopted, and, with one exception, the same officers
were elected, - the Grand Master being installed by three Masters of Lodge&
HHing thns completed its organization in accordance with the rule which seem~
now to be an established one in the United States, we have great pleasure in
greeting this thirty-fonrth " addition to the family " - presenting our most
cordial wishes that the little mal-practice exhibited at its birth may not In any
wise prove detrimental to its health and growth. The M.·. W. •• RICHARD R. REES
was elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. CHARLES F. HA1rarsoN, Grand Secretary.
KENTUCKY.
The Grand Lodge of this State held its Anm~al Communication for the year
1856, at the City of Lexington, commencing on the thirteenth day of October -tho
JI.:. W.·. DAVID T. MoNTSARRAT, Grand Master, presidinJ?, and Bro. J . M. S. ~fo­
CoRJCLE being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is a practical, sensible and well-written
paper, principally devoted to matters within the State, but touching also some
questions of general importance. He announces the issue of but seven Dispensaiions to form new Lodges, expressing the belief that there are Lodges enough in
Kentucky, and that the strongest reasons only hatl induced him to send forth
those which · had been granted. He suggests to the Lodges that greater care
should be taken in the selection of brethren for the office of Secretary, saying,
with great truth, that although it is a great misfortune to a Lodge to have an
incompetent Master, it is even a greater one to possess an incapable Secretary.
The position of one of your committee enables him to appreciate this opinion,
for althongh the greater number of the Secretaries in this jnrisdictiou perform
their duties in a very creditable manner, there are not w1mting instances where
there is infinite room for improvement. Bro. MoNTSARRAT strongly reprobates the
action by which so many mutilated persons had been mu.de Masons in Kentucky.
" Men without limbs," says he, "are to be found in the Lodges of almost every
District," and the excuse given for such unwarrantable making is the pre<'.edent
established by the Grand Lodge itself, ia 1801, during the first year of its existence. Then, when but t.hree Lodges composed that body, and when perhaps the
light from the East had but faintly shed its rays over the "dark and bloody
ground,:' a Dispensation was given to one of those Lodges to confer the degrees
npon a man who had lost his right arm ; and thi~ illegal and unlucky precedent has perpetuated the infringement of the organic law in that State during a
lleriod of fifty-six years. We think, with the Grand Master, that this evil should
110 longer he a blot upon the fair escntcheon of a jurisdiction where RO mur.h

6857.)

i:JRA.ri:b i.oi>G:& 01' cAtuoti.NtA..

Masonic intelllgence exists. He also strongly urges the collection of Masonic
Libraries, not only by the Grand Lodge, but by all its subordinates; and Invitee
attention to the necesRity for a history of the Introduction, progress, and presen•
condition of Masonry In that State. He earnestly recommends a more general
attention to the celebration of the anniversaries of our Patron Saints, believing
that this time-honored practice of our fathers would have a most vivifying infiuence upon the Order - that the ceremonies upon such occasions are full of sym·
bolic instruction to the initiated- that they tend to polish the glorious chain of
fraternal sociability, and to smooth and soften the little asperities which will
arise even among brethren ; and he concludes his Addre88 with the following
eloquent advocation of his suggP.stion : " Masonic festivals exercisl' a highly beneficial influence upon the mind1 of the tminitia·
ttd public. All. lbat 1b.e com!"u!'ity requir':s, to estimate '?ur ins~itution far above all o~h­
ers is to hear :Is sublime prmc1ples enunciated, and to witness its admirable ceremonies
11s perfonned on days of Festival. The effect is ever lo s~ell our ranks fro~ among!~
wise and good. Put, therefor~, the el~ucnce of our best informed brelhren 11110 rcqu1S1tion for publir. orations. Set 1he liberality of the Craft at work for abundant feasls. C111l
around you the charms of woman, the <hgnity of ag-e, the rcver~nce of ,religion, the ex.
ritemenl of mnues, nnd make them all to see whereon Masonry t• the jMtnd of man and
tM •en·ant of God!'

We are disappointed by Bro. RoBl!:RT M0Ira1s this year. His Report on Fort>ign Correspondence consists only of a welcome to the new Grand Lodge of
Kansas u.n extr11ct from the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of New York relative to 'the proffered mediation of Pennsylvania, and another from the tran81\C·
tions of the new Grand Lodge of Canada. The lack of time and the press of
other l\\'ocatione is given as a renson for the failure to present a paper such as
those we hnve seen from him before ; but we were too anxious to hear from him,
and, because of just ~uch reasons as those he give~, have been compelled to con~ume too much of the midnight oil ourselves, willingly to receive the excuses he
bas presented. He offers resolutions of welcome to and recognition of the Grand
Lodges of Kan~l\H and of Canada, and they were adopted by the Masonic Senate
of Kentucky.
Some rather queer resolutions were offered to the effect that, because some of
the :Charters to Lodges were iBAued when the Grand Lodge required elections to
be held on both the anniyersaries of St. John, and such requisition was stated in
them - by having changed that law and ordered the elections to be holden annually only, the Grand Lodge had subverted " the natural and inalimable rights"
of the Lodges, " D.R much so as to meddle with andrsubvert the enjoyment of life,
libe.tty and· the pursuit of happine~s I" The ret10lutions also maintained that, althou"'h the Grand Lodge had the right to arrest or revoke I\ Charter, it was its
"m<~o.1 and legal duty" in such case, to refund the money which originally
had been paid for It I! It is needleRB to Ray that the propositions did not prevail.
We remark, however, that a resolution permitting a Lodge to tr1 its Master
during his term of service, wiu adopted. This, so far as we are mformed, iH
certainly not in consonance with the general opinion entertained upon that
~ubject.

1t wns ordered that the Committee on Foreigu Correspondence collect and
publi8h a list of all thu expulsions in the Union, and that no new Lodge should
he opened unleM the nearest Lodge thereto certified that the Master and Wardens proposed were qualified to confer all the degr~es.; and It was offered, as a ·
conHtitutional amendment, that no ono:i should be permitted to serYe as Master of
a chartered Lodge until he hnd sntisfled his predecessor that he was qualified to
perform the dutieR of his olllce. The Treasurer's Report shows a revenue of
abont $12,000, and u. fund in notes and stocks on hand, of nearly $19,000. Two
hundred and Hixtv-four chartered Lodges, and seventeen under Dispensation now
r.xist on the regi~try of Kentucky, bein~ six more tban our Inst report exhibited.
The Grand Lodge was five days in session, the M.·. W. •• TnEODORE N. Wrn:s hav·
Ing been .,Ject~d Grand Master, and Bro. J.M. S. McComn,& reelected Grand
Secretary.
LOUISIANA.
1'he Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge or Loui~iana Wall co111meuce4
at tbe City of New Orleans, on the eleventh day of Febrnary, 1866,-tbe /4:. W.•J

48

JOUlt!UL OF PBOCHDINGS.

WILLI..!.¥ M. PERKINS, Grand Master, presiding, and the W. •• SA.llOEJ. G. RlllJC
being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master opens with c 0n'gratulatioos upon the complete union of all the Lodges in the State, and upon the general health which
has prevailed among the brethren. He mentions the formal healing of the members of the two Lodges named in our lo.st report as having returned to their
proper allegiance ; and, in connection with a cn:se occurring in one of them
_takes the occasion to exp_ress the opioi~n ~hat, though knowing no legal imped'.
1meot to a :Mason's holdmg membership 10 two Lodges at the same time it is
inexpedient, and frequently capable of producing n:uch confusion. ::5nch i~ onr
own opinion, and although the Grand Lodge of California hus permitted double
membership in cases where one of the Lodges was in another jurisdiction, (which
ls not so liable to objection as if both were in one State,) we think that the time
has gone past when the reRBon for that enactment e:-::isted, aucl that, ns no poasi·
ble good can result from such permission, and there certaiuly are cases where
much harm may ensue, the law had better confine membership to a single Lodg1!.
He announces the issue of eleven Dispensations during the year for the opening
of new Lodges; and in answer to some doubts which had been suggested on the
subject, presents the opinion that such Lodges should pay dues to the Grand
Lodge in all respects like chartered ones. Such i8 our own custom, and we have
no doubt of its justice, and not the lea.st reason to question its legality and propl'iety . He suggests that Lodges, in their petitions for Charters, should suggest
the first three officerA, that they may be named therein, a.s the Constitution permits no election until the Lodge shall have been properly constituted, and the
net of constituting a Lodge necessarily involves the installation of its officers. He
thinks that, o.s a matter of policy, only, the Master of n Lodge should first have
served as Warden, though he rcgllrds the regulation of the Grand Lodge of
England upon that subject as being no more binding upon us than another which
requires that the Grand Master shall be of noble blood. Upon the v~ry ground
assumed by Bro. PERKL>:S, we think the selection should not be thus restricted.
Where the Wardens are qualified ~o succeed ~o the Mastership, it very rarely occurs that the brethren do not perceiYe their fitness. But it dou sometimes happen that those are placed in the West a.nd South who are incapable of learning,
or negligent in attending to the duties of those stations, and it is suftlciently un
fortunate for a Lodge to be compelled to endure iuefficieocv in it~ Wardens fot
a year, without having entailed upon it the still greater calawi.t y of being compelle<J to elevate such officers to the Mastership. The Grand Master concludeR
his addre11s with a statement relative to the o.tfairs of the Grand Lodge Hall,
which we have before spoken of, nod which now seems steadily progressing to a
favorable close.
The Report of Louiria11a Relir,f Lodge, No. 1, deservedly finds pince in the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge. Besides au expenditure of about $3,000, for
a Masonic Tomb in Greenwood Cemetery, the amount diRbursed for charity
during the year wns $2800, of which only $468 was for residents of Louisiana.
Of the twenty Lodges in New Orleans, eleven nominally, though but seven in
reality, have borne the burden of this cbarity ; and perhaps the highest encomium
which we can bestow upon the benevolence of our brethren in that city, will be
found in the fact that the Lodges in our own principal town have esteemed it 110
praiseworthy that they have by a ~iwilar establishment ende1wored to emulate it.
Tho Report on Foreign Correspoodence is from the pen of the Grand Master,
and to those who have read his Addresses, that will be a sufficient commendation. He approves the plan adopted by Virginia and Texas, in the eft'ort to
secure a uniformity of work. Instead of a system of Lecturers, a Standing
Committee on Work is appointed from among those best qualified in the Ritual
of the Grand Lodge, and no changes are ever made io it except to fill such
vacancies as death or cessation of membership in the Grand Lodge may produce. With this Committee the work is deposited, and all that is taught in the
State must emanate from or be approved by it. 'l'he sugge&tion strikes us
favorably, though nt this time we probably have little to complain of on the
score of lack of uniformity. Bro. PERKINS advocates the propriety and usefuloeBB of the publication by the Grand Lodges of the names of all the members

GitAND LODGE OP CALI~lA.

6867.1

of Lodges In their respective jurisdictions, together with a list of 8U8pellldope
and expulsions, as well as of demissions and deaths. It is the practice ot Q.e
Grand Lodge of California, and we would be well pleased to see the ouetom
general, as, in another capacity, we have frequently had occasion to regret the
absence of such means of information. He quotes from the Address of our
Grand :Master In 1855, and of him and of others of this body speaks lo most
courteous and ~iodly terms. Ile notices the Iowa Re)lort of 1865, by Bro.
WALLACE, whose broad-axe and hook and ladder style of diSBertation we adverted
to slightly at the last Communication ; and thinks that brother "Is resolved
to keep the balance of the world straight," for, finding nothing else In the Texaa
proceedings to pitch into, "he fires a broadside at the printer and those who
Ruperintended•their publication." Io relation to the question whether a Mn11011
can be tried and punished for offences committed prior to his initiation, Bro.
l'ERKINS is decidedly of opinion that he cannot, unless the offence have Rome
uoonectioo with his admisRion to the Order, as an untruth in his petition, or
ll<lme deception to procure a favorable consideration. So we think 1.1nd have
heretofore had occasion to say. He comments upon a case in Texas to which
wo last year adverted-the manufacture of sunclry "emergent" Masons for
rxportatioo to California - and very justly condemns the practice of granting
dispensations suddenly to confer degrees, for no better reason than that the
applicant is about to remove to another State, where perchance Masonry may be
useful to him! Bro. PERKINS, like Bro. GIL.MAN, of Maryland, disapproves or
that portion of our Regulation for Trials which required a viva vooe vote on the
question of the guilt or innocence of thQ accused, and we doubt not f,hey will
both be pleased to see that the Grand Lodge of this State at its last Communication arrived at the Mme opinion entertained by them. The Report conclude~
with a copy of the Ctinada communication, and an expression of the opinion
that the new Grancl Lodge ought at once to be acknowledged. No action npon
the subject, however, was had by the Grand Lodge of Louisiana.
A resolution was adopted that no non-resident should be initiated in that
State, without permission from the Grand Master or Grand Lodge of the juriedictioo within which he lived. The Grand Treasurer's Report show the recei~h
from all sources to have been $17,452, and the disbursements $11,834, a con11d·
erable amount of which, on both sides, WM for account of the Grand Lod,e
Hall; nod there remained on hand in cash $5617. Ninety-five cha1·tered
Lodges and six under Dispensation now are borne ur,on the registry of Louisiana,
ehowing an increase of five since our last report. 'I ho Communication continued
nine days-sessions ·being held only in the evenings-and both the Grand
Master nod Grnnd Secretary were reelected.

•

MAINE•

The Grand Lodge of this Sta to commenced its Annual Communication for the
year 1856, at the City of Portland, on the first day of May-the M.·. W.·. Joax
MILLER, Grand Master, presiding, llnd the R:. W.·. CHARLES B. SMITH being
Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master contains little of general interest. It opena
with the usual gratulatory remarksl· recommends .the compilation of a work on
Ma1mory for the use of that Grand odge ; announces the iBBue of five Dispen11atioos to form new Lodges (three of which, en pau!tnt, are named St. Joh11's) ;
and concludes by declining to be a candidate again for the high office he was
11bout to leave.
A report from the Grand Treasurer seems to show rather a looee supervision
or the Lodges in that State during the past years. He had })een directed at the
previous Communication to make up certain accounts commenced in a "Trea11urer's Account Book" many years ago, containing most of the details given in
the Annual Returns. Upon examination he found that twenty-five 1ears had
elapsed since it bad been 'ouched, and that much of the makriel requisite to perrorm the task imposed waa lost or had never been received. Although he looked
upon the order as very much like that of Pharaoh when he commanded the
leraelites to make bricks, without furnishing the straw, yet he made the b1ickl;
and among other facts elicited, it is stated that of eighty-one Lodges under that
Jwisdiction in May, 1855, eixty-oine 0011 had made returns and paid due11-

7

60 ·

6857.]

j()URNAL OF PROClilEDING!i.

one Lodge h&d surrendered its Charter several yearP ago to .a Grand Omcer, but
it bad never been reported, and the Charter and Records were probably lost •
another had "never resumed work and bas no omcers," and a third bad neve;
had a meeting since the day it was constituted, the Senior Warden having
removed to Illinois and carried with him the Charter, Jewels, Collars and
Aprons I There seems now, however, to be a disposition to remedy this sleepyhollow system, and it is to be hoped that the applications will be radical-either
death or absolnte resuscitation.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is again by our learned brother, the
Rev. CYRii. PEARL. He gives a summary of the action of the several Grand
Lodges, so far as beard from, relative to a National Confederation and concludes .that it is doubtful whether the requisite number will be found i~ its favor.
There 1s probably no doubt about it at all, for, though we regret that it is so, not
more than half a dozen have declared for the project. The manifesto of the new
Grand Lodge of Canada is given entire, and Bro. PEARL, in a series of resolutions
warmly proposes to recognize and welcome that body. These, after some dis'.
cu98ion, were laid over until the next Communication, by a very small majority.
An~th~r .resolution fro~ the committe~, "against excluding all allusion to
Chr1st1amty fro~ Mas?mc Lodges, and m favor of retaining the Bible entire,
as the Great Light m Masonry,'' was adopted. We have already 11·rittt!n
on the subject of Christian tests as regards qualification for admission and our
report of this year and the last will Rulllciently exhibit our opinion that they are
in violation of the general Masonic law. But if Christianity instead of Masonry
is to be taught in the Lodges, then it is but fair that the test should be applied
that the candidate may know upon what he is about to enter. We have the pr~
fo?ndest reverence for and the m?st impli~it faith ID: the doctrines taught by
Him of ;N~zaret~, but we do not tbmk that m a Masomc Lodge, our own particular rehg1ous v1~ws should be forced upon those who, be.ving as good a right to
be there, and bemg as good Masons too, as ourselves, entertain a different creed.
The discussion of this subject, like those of total abstinence profane swearing
gambling, etc., cannot be productive of any good, and indeed Maine herself
gives a proof of this, one Lodge in that State having been broken up in conRequence of a teetota~ row. We meet for one purpose only, and we believe that a
Lodge should remam a Lodge, while Chapels, Halls of Temperance and Houses
of Correction should be found elsewhere.
'
Th~ ten District ~eputies of this State al~ presented reports at this Communlcat10n. A resolut10n was adopted authorizing each to hold a Convention of
Masons in his proper District twice each year, for the purpose of instruction in
the work and lectures. The financial reports show that the receipts for
the. yea~ were about $1580, the e:-pend!tures about $1500, adtt that $1028 remained m the. treasury. There 1s besides a Charity Fund invested in bank
stocks, amountmg to $5800. There appear to be now in existence in Maine Aeventy-two chartered Lodges, and six under Dispensation, being seven more' than
we last presented. The Communication was concluded in two days, during which
the M.·. W:. JABEZ TRUE was elected Grand Master, and the R:. W.·. IRA BERRY,
Grand Secretary.

MARYLAND.
The latest intelligence we have from the Grand Lodge of this State is to November, 1855, and we take the occasion to express our regret that we hear so irregularly and so tardily from Maryland. Neither the transactions of May, 1855,
or of May or November, 1856, have reached us, and we feel their loss the more as
there are those in that body from whom we are peculiarly anxious to hear. The
publication before us contains the proceedings of the Grand Stewards' Lodge at
the quarterly meetings in July and October, and of the Grand Lodge at its Annual Communication, commenced in the city of Baltimore, on the nineteenth .day
of November-the M:. W.·. CHARLES WEBB, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:.
W.·. JosEPH RoBINSON being Grand Secretary;
The Address of the Grand Master is very brief, simply admonishing the brethren in regard to the proper discharge of the duties which lay before them.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as heretofore, from the pen of our
well-known and esteemed brother, CHAl!LES GILMAN, who, it will be remembered
was the presiding officer of the Convention which organized the Grand Lodge

oi

GRAND LODGE Of CALIFORNIA.

61

California. It is confined within a few pages, only adverting to some most prominent points presented from the various jurisdictions ; and noting with just satisfaction, the great concordance of opinion throup;hout the country now exhibited
In .these reports, !l-B compared with the wide and almost angry differences which preTailed when this system of correspondence-was first established. For the kind '
notice of the Chairman of this committee, and of his report in 1855 we feel sincerely grateful, as commendation from a Masonic writer of such long experience
and a~knowledged ability, is calculated to induce the belief that our then first
essay m su~b a field, could not have contained many grievous blunders. Bro.
GrLMA.."'<'s kmdly recollections of his brethren in California are not warmer or
more sin~ere than ~heirs of him to whose wise counsel and ready aid they were so
greatly mdebted m days bygone. The proceedings in Canada are slightly
touched upon, apparently with commendation of the views presented by Grand
Master EvA..vs, of New York, in opposition thereto; but as the declara~on of the
new Grand Lodge h!l'd not then appeared! it is not yet known to us what the opinion of Maryland will be upon that subJect. A soft reproof is o.dministered to
Bro. HACKER, of Indiana, for the harsh terms employed in the report which we
last year noticed ; and the paper concludes with the correction of a mistake made
by Bro. FosTE~, ~f Missouri, in terms s~ ge~t!e, fr~nk, o.nd ft·iendly, o.s to command our adm1rat1on for the truly Masomc spmt which they display.
A committee was authorized to commence the collection of a Masonic Library
and Bro. J. N. McJILTON, Grand Chaplain, was appointed to compile o. History of
Freemasonry in Maryland. The Treasurer's Report shows the receipts for the
half year to have been $2402, the disbursements $1848, and $1583 remaining In
the treasury. Besides thiR, the Grand Charity Fund now amounts to $16 783
and a ~ommittee was appointed to select a hundred acres of land near Balti~ore'
on ~b1ch ~o erect buildings for its permanent application. There are now in op:
cra~1on th1r~y-one chartered Lodgl!R• and ?ne under Dispensation. The Communication contmued three days, sesswns bemg held only in the evenings and the
Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected.
'

MASSACHUSETTS.
The o.bstra.ct of the proceedings of this Grand Lodge for the year 1856 now
before us, contains the published tran~actions at the quarterly meetings In March
Jane, and September, the Annual Communication in December and a speclai
meetinp; on the thirtieth day of that month, which appears to hav; been a postponement of the usual Communication on the day of St. John the Evangelist.
At the September meeting, we rP.mark the reception of certain resolutions or
t~ls Grand Lodge, rel~tive t~ the Lodge formerly known on ourregistcr as Pacific Lodge, at Valparaiso, which your Grand Secretary was directed to forward
·to Massarb11setts; and we take the occasion to acknowledge the courtesy exhibited by ordering them to be entered upon the record. At the same session a
very excellent anq carefully prepared report upon the Canadian difficulties was pre•ented and approved; but as we shall speak of that subject in another place we
only 1;1ote here t~a.t the resolutions which accompanied it and were adopted: rerused the recog01t1on of the new Grand Lodge, protested against its continuance
as an act of rebellion, and forbade the Lodges and Masons of Massachusetts to
hold o.ny Masonic commmunication with it, or with any Lodge or individual having connection with it.
The Annno.l Comm~nication was holden on the tenth day of December the
JI:. W.-. ~INSLow LEw1s, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W: •.CH.t.~ W.
'MOORE, bemg Grand Secretary. A committee on the subject of regalia rer,orted
that ~ new set for the Grand Lodge had been ordered from England, similar to
that m use by the Grand Lodge of that country ; and that for the subordinates
it should be as follows : "The a~ron of a Master Mason should be a plain white lamb skin fourteen inches wide
hy twelve rnches deep, with sky blue lining and ed_ging, having thre~ rosettes of the same
r.olor. No other color shall be allowed, and no qther ornament shall be worn, except by
.,ffieer~ and past officers of Lodges, wno may have the emblems of their offices in silver
nn their apr~n. An ~ffice_r of a subordinate Lod~e should wear a blue sash; a blue velVflt collar, trnnmed with silver lace, and a silver Jewel. ·"

61

iOURNAL OF PROCEEDING&

[Majt,

Tbe jewels proposed 11re the same 11s those In use among ourselves. The Grand
Master, Bro. LEWIS, having declined a reelection, the M... W.·. JoHN T. HEARDWllS
uaanimously elected to succeed hltn, and the R:. W:.CHARLES W. MooRE was reelected Recording Grand Secretary,
' At the Special Meeting on the thirtieth of December, Bro. LEWIS delivered hiH
valedictory Address to the Grand Lodge. The decease of the M.'. W:. P. P. FAY,
a Past Grand Master ; of the R:. W,'. SETH SPRAGUE, a Past Grand Warden ; and of
the R:. W,., JoHN J. LORING, also a Past Gr1md Warden, and for twenty-five ye11rs
lkand Treasurer of Massachusetts, was noticed in fitting terms. Public processions or exhibitions of the Order, except for purposes strictly appertaining to Masonry, were strongly disapproved. 'fhe re-issue of six old Charters, and the issue of
six Dispensations to form new Lodges, waR announced ; and we observe that one
of these last was for our brethren in Chili, by the name of Si.Jr-of-the-South Lodge.
Some interesting correspondence was presented re la ti veto HENRY PRICE, the fir st
Grand Master in New England, and the Grand Lodge has been fortunate enough to
be enabled to add his to the g11llery of portraits of Grand Masters which it has collected. The new Grand Officers were installed, and in the Address presented b1
Grand Master HEARD on the occasion, he pays a handsome and deserved compliment to his predecessor; recommends the publication of all the records of th"
Grand Lodge ; suggests the propriety of a return to the 11ncient custom of obllerving the General Feast on St. John's day ; proposes the erection of a monument to the memory of HENRY PRICE, the first Grand Master on this Continent ;
and congratulates the Craft in Massachusetts on the general prosperity of the Order In that Commonwealth. The number of existing Lodges under Charter is now
0ighty-nine, besides seven under Dispensation, being sixteen more than our last
communication from that Grand Lodge exhibited.

MICHIGAN.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Michigan for the year
1856, was begun at the City of Detroit, on the ninth day of January,-;;-the R:. w. ..
Gl!lORGE C. MliNRO, Deputy Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W:. JAMES
Ji'ENTO!i being Grand Secretary. There was no Address, nor is there aught said
relative to the Grand Master in the proceedings.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by the Grand Secretary, and presents
11 short notice of most of the Grand Lodges. He recommends the adoption of
&n {dbt forbidding the Lodges from admitting, as visitors, any Mason not a
member of some Lod~e. Strongly inclined as we arc to do all that is possible to
discountenance and disqualify the drones of the Masonic hive, we feel disposed to
suggest this proposition for our own government, if, indeed it be not already in
eH'ect contained in our sixty-third Standing Resolution. Yet, while looking
favorably upon any 11ction which sbnll debar those who contribute nothing to the
~upport of the 1;harities of the Order from being the recipients of any of the
privileges or beneficences of a Lodge, we must record our unqualiOed disappro·
bation of one act of the Grand Lodge of Michigan in relation to this matter,
which we find at a later page. A code of By-Laws, copied, it is said, from those
existing in Ohio, was adopted for the government of' the Lodges, and was recommended to their acceptance. Among them is the following article: "Any member
who shall be in arrear for one year's dues, shall be suspended; nnd if, within a
rellSonable time thereafter, he does not nnswer the suspension by the payment of
the dues, he shall be expelled." It seems to us not at all consonant with the
prlneiplee embodied in the fourth of our cardinal virtues, that for the mere nonpt1yinent ef certain dollars, the same heavy punishment should be meted out as
Is l11llicted for the gravest misdemeanors known to the Masonic law. We would,
by ~very possible means, endeavor to deprive those who are thus careless of their
proper and well known duties, in this respect, of all those Lodge rights and
benefits, which can only exist and be dispensed by the aid of the contributions of ·
the brethren; but we do not believe that for such neglect, blameable as it is,
they should or can, by the ~enerally received law of Masonry, be entirely cut off
fl'OUl certain of their individual claims upon the Brotherhood. Bro. FENTON is
a..-~se to the proposition of New York relative to the reciprocal appointment of
Representatives by the various Grand Lodges, stating that to do this with all
tboso bodies in the United States "would involve an outlay of not less than

6867.)

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA.

68

llfteen hundred dollars." For what purpose? Whatever other reasons there1lla:r
be against the suggestion of the Grand Master of New York, we have · never
before heard the expeme argued 11s one, and confess we were ignorant that there
would be a11y further than the pre-payment of postage on a letter of appointment.
The Report of the Indiana Committee of 1855, wherein certain suggestions for
regalia in Michigan were char11cterized as " 11n absurd specimen of balderdash,"
ls noticed by Bro. FENTON, in the language of Job--,." No doubt but ye are the
people, and wisdom shall die with you." An allusion is made to the meeting of
the Canadian Lodges, but the Committee states that, having "no official informa·
tion whether said Convention did proceed to organize an independent Grand
Lodge," comment upon the subject is not offered. 'l'his seems a little singular,
&son the second day of November preceding, the M:. w.., Hl!lNRY T. BACKUS, &
Past Grau.d Master of Michigan, who was present at this Commnnic11tion, installed
the officers of the new Grand Lodge. at Hamilton, a single day's journey from
Detroit!
The Grand Lecturer reported that he had visited all the Lodges in the State
hut 01'le. A Lodge to work in the German language was chartered. The Grand
Treasurer's Report shows an income of $1455, and an expenditure of $2567, 11nd
$616 yet remained in the Treasury. There 11re seventy-three Lodges chartered.
and fourteen under Dispensation on the registry, being ten more than we last
year noted. The Communication lasted three days, the 111... JV>. GEORGE C.
MuNRo, having been elected Grand Master, u.nd the R:. w.., JA.MF.H 1''ENTON,
reelected Grand Secretary.
Ml NNESOTA.
The fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of this Territory was
commenced at the 'fown of St. Paul, on the seventh d11y of January, 1856,-the
M:. lV:. MosEs SHERBURNE, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. w.., HENRY
HEYNOLDH being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is more than ordinarily interesting. He
describes well the duties which Masons owe, not only to each other, but to 11ll
their fellow-me11, and truthfully sets forth the various unworthy reasons which
frequently prompt the applications of those, who, through carelessness and inattention, are too often admitted to our mysteries. He devotes considerable apace
to the examination of the subject of a National Confederation, and is of the
opinion that it would be cumbrous and unproductive of anr of the good etfectA
Mought to be produced by its orgimization, while the establishment of' a General
Grand Lodge would be in the highest degree beneficial to the interests of Amcri·
can Masonry. These views, at a later period, were adopted by the Grand Lodge.
He thinks that too little care is exercised by the Lodges in granting demits, so
called; and that, while the right of 11 member to withdraw from a Lodge whenever it shall please him, ought not to be disputed, it behooves th11t body to be
1•ery cautious bow they grant certificates which recommend the bearer to 11ll the
Masonic Fraternity throughout the world. Our own opinions, In consonance with
this, have heretofore been given. Bro. SHERlllJRNl!l announces the issue of three
Dispensations to form new Lodges during the year, and declines a reelection aA
Grand Master.
There is no Report on Foreign Correspondence. A new Constitution was pre!lflnted, which appears to be modeled principally from that of the Grand Lodge
of New York, though we think that in two or three reRpects 11t lc11st, alterations
which have been introduced are not improvements. Neither time or space, however, permits a discussion of the instrument now. It was approved by the Grand
Lodge, and ordered to be submitted to the Lodges for their acceptance or rejection during the year, the concurrence of two-thirds being required for its adoption.
A resolution was adopted to pay one representative from each Lodge three dollars
per day and his necessary traveling expenses in attending the Communications.
The financial reports show a revenue for the year of $412, and an expenditure of
$299, there remaining $472 in the Treasury. Both the Secretary and Treasurer
Meem to act as custodia11s and disbursers of the funds. Eight chartered Lodges
and four under Dispensation now exist in Minnesota, being an increase of' seven
Hince our last report. The Communication la<1ted five days, during which the
M:. w.., A. T. C. PIERSON was elected Grand Ma~ter, and the ll:. W.·. HENRY
RlllYNOLDS was reappointed Grand Secretary.

.JOUBNA.L OJ' PROCEEDINGB.

MI S SISSIPP I.
The Grand Lodge of this State held its Annual Communication for the year
1856 at the city of Vlcksburg, commencing on the tw.e~ty-first day of Jan~ary­
ihe 11.·. W.·. GILES M. HILLYER, Grand Master, pres1dmg, and the R.·. W.. WILLIAM P. MELLKN, being Grand Secretary.
.
The AddreRB of the Grand Master presents a retrospective view of Masonry 1n
Mississippi, and contraRts the condition of the Order in 1819, when but three
LodgeR existed In the State, and but one hundred and four members were borne
upon their rolls, with its prospects now, when there are two hundred Lodges and
nearly eight thousand members. He ll'ives a tribute of remembrance to the R.·. W.·.
WoonsoN WREN lately deceased, who was formerly Grand Secretary of that
Grand Lodge • ~ompares the quiet harmony and peace which prevails in Masonic
-assemblages ~ith the loud discord and confusion ~su!'-llY characteriz.ing other
congregations; and displays the chastening and molhfymg effects .pro~uced upon
men in all circumstances and situations by the precepts and obligatt0ns of the
Order. He advocates the District Dtlputy system prevailing in Mississippi, nod
presents the substance of the reports of ten out of the seventeen officers of that
name. Some space is given to the subject of a deficiency in the revenue, occasioned by a division of $2500 among the Lodges, and an increase of the ~ay "!1d
mileage of members · and a brief notice ls taken of the settlement of the rival JUrisdictions of the Supreme Councils of the 33d in the South, in conseque~ce of
which all the Lodges in Louisiana were now re~tored to their rightful allegiance.
He announces the issue of seventeen Dlspensat1ons to form ne~ Lodges; and, a~­
ier a beautiful and eloquent admonition to the brethren so to illustrate, by their
lives and conduct, the emblems and lessons of the institution, that at the en~ of
earth they may be raised to a knowledge of the grent secrets and unbounded JOYS
of the life to come, be concludes with the following most appropriate extract
from Inwood's Sermons: "Then in that awful day when the seer()ts of all heRrts shall be disclosed, the gazing
lllallitude' who have curiouslv inquired our secrets, shall be astomshed to know tliat the
r;reatesl deep of Masonic mystery was the unpublished act of doing good."

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as in previous years, from t~e skilful hand of Bro. WM. P. MELLEN. An excellent summary of the proceedings of
the various Grand Lodges is presented, while but little !'}lace is gi~ei!' t? t~e enunclation of opinions upon any particular subject, our brother o~ M1ss1ss1~p1 pr?bably, like ourselves, finding little left a~ong the ma!1y late subjects of d1scuss1on,
ihat is not pretty conclusively determmed. He gives two or three pages to the
proceedings of California and as there are several opinions in our Report on Foreign Correspondence of that year (1855) which do not meet bis approval, we take
the occasion to BllY that all t~e imperfections of that report, bow~ver great, rest
not upon him to whom be attributes them, but to the writer of this, as well aR of
the two ne:xt preceding papers of this kind.
. .
.
.
A resolution similar to our own of 1855, forbidding suspensions for a .defimte
Ume was adopted. Majority and minority reports upon the troubles m New
York were presented, as well as a" reply" and" rejoinder" from t~e parties presenting the two re\>ortR · and we are !IIOst happy to see that that which we thought
was foreshadowed m th~ previous year's proceedin~s, has in reality come to pass,
and Mississippi now. acknowledges, with all her sisters, the Grand Lodge of th;;
State of New York. A very learned report on the "powers of a Grand Lodge
was presented by Bro. G11:0. H. _GRAY, Sen., which, as it ~ems to deny any real
power in a Grand Lodge at all, 1s rather unfortunately entitled. The report of a
Committee on Retrenchment was adopted, reducing the pay of members t~ $2. 50
per diem 1md $2 50 for every thirty miles travel each way, 11nd the Constitution
was ame~ded by raising the annual dues from fifty to seventy-five cents for each
member - the dues for degrees being, as with us, one dollar for each conferred.
· A res~lution was adopted authorizing Lodges to try Ma~ons for offences committed before becoming members of the Order, if such offences were of a cb!lracter which would be designated as "felonious" by the la"(S of the land. A Jewel
was voted to BRo. WM. P. MELI.EN, who for twenty-one years has been Grand
Secretary in Mississip~i, and who, for some reason which does not appear,_ was
not reelected at this Communication, though the highest compliments are paid to
the carfl and fidelity with which be bas discharged the dutieR of his office. The

386~.j

GRAtfD . LODGE OJ' oA.iii'oa~

nnanolal report exhibits an income during the year of $7150, and an expenditure

ut 17706 leaving $62 in the treasury, and an outstanding indebtedness of $1342.

One hundred and seventy-four chartered Lodges and fifteen under Dispensation
1111w exist in this State, being ten more than we last yeRr chronicled ; and we take
Iha liberty of expressing our admiration of the care and labor which bas been be•lowe<l by tbe Grand Secretary in preparing their returns, and the accompanying
•latl"tics. These, with the proceedings, fill four hundred and sixty-three pages,
ootavo; five days were devoted to the Communication, during which the Grand
ll11Nkr was reelected, and the R:. W:. R. W. T. DANIEL was elected Grand Secretary.

MI S SOURI .
Thi.' Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of this State for the year
l8611, was commenced at the city of Lexington, on the twenty-sixth day of May,lbe M:. W.·. L. S. CORNWELL, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.·. A. O'SuL&.IV.l.N being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master in bis Address announces that health, prosperity and harmuny has prevailed throughout the jurisdiction. He laments the death of Bro.
Wtr.!iON BROWN, a Past Grand Master of that State; denounces the system of
Itinerant lecturing prevalent in MiSBOuri ; disapproves of the practice, there in
(Oroel of permitting District Deputy Grand Masters to grant Dlspensatlons'to form
11nw Lodges · and takes the occasion to notice how few of the aeuen Grand ChaphllnH annuaJiy appointed by the Grand Lodge, ever attend itR meetings. He iN
upposed to the custo'1!-, i.n \'Ogu~ among many of th~ Lod~es, o~ occupying a hall
Jointly with other socrnt1es ; believes that aJJ pecuniary difficulties between brethr1•n should be settled in the Lodge-room, and not in the Jaw-courts· and, notwlthNtandin" the harmony which he states as prevailing, notes severai insti,mcee
of the arres~ s11spenRion and surrender of charters on account of troubles in the
l..otlges. A considerable portion of the address, and not a little space in the proo~edings is given to the constant subject of the Masonic College. The experience
d••rlved from rending the transactions of Missouri, convinces us more and more
~1ohl.rar of the inexpediency of attempting, by means of" MaROnic Colleges," so ·
Clllle , to advance the cause of education. There are few States now in the Union
l\'hPre free primary schools <lo not exist in every neighborhood, and thus the
1•nmmon branebeNof education ure open without cost to all. If it be desired to
l\lllllst a l\fason'RROil or daughter further, there is little doubt that it can be done
al a much less rxpeuse by sending them to some one of the hundreds of institutlonA of learning nlready in existence, than by attempting to organize, endow 1md
manuge one ourselves.
We regret to see that Grand llf11Rter COR1'"W.t:I,L committed the great error of
Introducing in his address any notice of the political and sectional dissensions
wblch have pre1·ailed in that State and in the Territory on its borders, or any
'll'l\l'lling of the brethren against other sccrct societies; and we arc well pleased to
ahl!<'n·e that a committee to whom that portion of the address was referred, exprel'l!ed di!!approml of the act, declaring that they regarded, "the introduction of
1n11ttrrs of political policy, or the tendency of other secret eocieties, into the Grand
Lodge as not only of doubtful propriety, but truly hurtful to the principles of
our Order." In a Lodge of 1.fowne, say they, "politics should never enter, nor
~hould we undertake to condemn other secret societies of which we perhaps know
nothing, and which claim to J;>e, it' not so venerable, at least as good as ou~" Bro.
CnnNWELL gives some attent10n to the new Grand Lodge of Canada, and is of the
nplnion that for the present at least, it ought not to he recognized; and in this the
CJrand Lodge more t.han concurred, by a somewhat sweeping resolution that It
nmlld not " acknowledge the existence of a Grand Lodge in the Canada&, indeflllndcnt of the Grand Lo<lge of England." Not even if the parent Grand Body
•b1111ld assent ?
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as heretofore, by Bro. J osEPH Fos1 tm. Ile expends a little indignation upon France for presuming to attempt to
holcl the" UniverRal Masonic Congreflll" adverted to in our last report, and repeats
wbl\t he says he stated several years ago, that " it would be a miracle to expect
1n1 results but wanton and reckless lnnovations,-if indeed the term ravages
would not be more appropriate- upon our fraternity from all assemblies of the
~11111.'' Grand J,odges then must be Masonic nuisances to B greater or ieM ex-

ioihur.AL o:F PR001tifoNes,

f~,

tent. Dro. FosTER speak!! of the Indiana report of 1855 as being " sometimes
rather caustic," which strikes us as a definition, unknown to the lexicographel'8t
for harsh, discourteous, almost abusive language. He takes issue with the Grand
Lodge of Ohio because a committee of that body, in reporting against making an
appropriation upon an application for charity, stated that the usage had always
been to refuse relief from its funds, on the ground that it was more proper for
the subordinate Lodges to be the ministers of such beneficence, each in its own
particular neighborhood. Now this, it seems to us, is exactly as it should be. If
a Grand Lodge undertakes the distribution of charity, how unequal, uncertain
and infrequent must it be, especially in an extensh·e jurisdiction like Ohio. Un·
fair too, it is likely to be, as all the Lodges are ta..'l:ed to fill the treasury of the
Grand Lodge, and this money would be apportioned among a very few, living
probably in the neighborhood of the place where that body meets, and appropri·
ated without that certain knowledge of the worthiness of the applicants which a
subordinate Lodge would have the time and means to ascertain. It appears to
us to be far better that the revenue of the Grand Lodge, derived from its subor·
dinates, should be only just sufficient to meet its necessary business expenses, and
that to the Lodges should be left such disbursements as the calls for charity may
require and their means may justify. Bro. FosTER very justly condemns the proposition of the Grand Master of Oregon in 1855, to which we last year alluded,
making a general reputation for lack of morality or honesty sufficient ground for
immediate suepension or expulsion, without requiring charges to be preferred and
proved ; and he disapproves, as we think for good reasons, the change of practice
in Arkansas by which balloting on the applications ot' candidates is had in a
Lodge of the degree applied for.
A Committee reported that a Grand Lecturer of approved skill should he
appointed, to devote his whole time, not only in lecturing Lodges upon the
Ritual, but upon the history and principles of the Order. Ile was to keep a
journal of his proceedings, to be submitted each year to the Grand Lodge,
showing the number of Lodges vi8ited, the time spent with each, and the condition
of each "morally, Masonically and financially;" and he was to receive three
dollars per day for such service, from the Grand Lodge, and have his necessary
expenses paid by the ,Lodges which he visited. The new Grand Lodge of Kansas
was recognized, the three Lodges composi11g it having all existed under CharterR
from Missouri. A little dispute between two Pa8t Grand Masters appears to have
arisen upon a claim by each to the paternity of the "Masonic College," and a
gentle rebuke was administered to the Grand Master for restoring on his own
responsibility the charter of a Lodge which had been arrested, to a iJbrtion of the
members of the Lodge. The financial reports show the receipts for the year to
have been $8645, from all sources. The debt of the College was $9100, and the
estimate of its expenses for the coming year was $6200. One hundred and fifty
ch!l-1'tered Lo~ges and eight under Dispensation now exist upon the registry of
this body, bemg the same number laRt year reported. The Grand Lodge was six
days in Communication, during which the M.-. W.-. BENJAMIN SHARP was elected
Grand Master, and the R.-. W.-. A. O'SULLIVAN was reelected Grand Secretary.
NEW JERSEY.
The Grand Lodge of New Jersey held its Annual Communication for the year
· 1856, in the City of Trenton, commencing on the.ninth day of Jnne-the M:. W.-.
EDWARD STEWART, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. w,., Jo8EPH H. HouGH
being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master discusses no subject of general interest. He
· announceH the issue of two Dispensations to form new Lodges, and the resuscl·
tatio1:1 of three ?ld ones; and _presents a lis~ of Lodges .visited during the year,
showmg not a little zeal and mdustry on his part. He mculcates the necessity
of becoming well versed in the ceremonies aud lectures of the Craft declines a
reelection, and closes with a piece of poetry.
'
A Report on Foreign Correspondence seems to have been preRented as the
Committee had leave to print it with the proceedings, but it nowhere app~ars iu
the pamphlet before us. Resolutions respecting some border difficulties with New
York and Pennsylvania were adopted. The Financial Reports exhibit a revenue
of $532, and an expenditure of $534. l<'orty-one chartered Lodges now appear

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OF' bAtIFOil.NiA.

upon the rolls, being six more than shown by the last year's record. The Co111·
munlcation continued two days only, the M:. W:. DANIEL BABBITT being elected
Grand Master, and the R:. w... JOSEPH H. HOUGH, being reelected Grand
l:lecretary.
NEW YORE.
The Annual Meeting of the Grand Lodge of this State for the year 1856, was
begun at the city of New York on the third day of June-the M:. W:. JosEPH D.
KvANs, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. lV:. JAMES M. AUSTIN being Grand
Secretary.
The Grand Master, in his Address commends the practical operation of the Dis·
trlct Deputy system lately established in that jurisdiction ; deprecates the too
ltl'eat carelessness with which constitutional provisions are sometimes nlmo~t legishited away by hurried action in the Grand Lodge; and rejoices in the harmony
iind prosperity which prevails among the Lodges throughout the State. He re·
r1robates 11.spiration for oflice, n.s contrary to the precepts of our institut:ou, and
baneful in its etfects upon the Order ; and commends that portion of the new Con·
~tltution depriving l'ast Masters of memberohip in the Grand Lodge, because it
tl>nds to prevent the too frequent change of Masters In Lodges- he believing
that the prosperity of a Lodge is best promoted by keeping a good Master in
oltlce as long us he will serve. He urges the reestablishment of the Grand Stew·
IU'ds' Lodge, which was lately abolished ; approves the efforts which have been
made for the establishment of Masonic Libraries; and advocates the practice of
t•xamining candidates fur a1hancement in open Lodge. This practice, however,
11 subsequent resolution of the Grand Lodge has altered, without improving, as
we think, by permitting such examinations to be had before a committee. He al·
ludes again to the subject of the new Grand Lodge of Canada, reiterating the
opinions before expressed reg·ardiug the illegality of its formation; and expresses,
most properly, in our opinion, his disapproval of the mediation lately proposed by the
( <rnudLodge of Pennsylvania, between the Grand Lodge of New Yol'k and the rebel·
liousorganizationswhichithaH expelled. Both these subjects will hereaftel' be referrt•d to. llro. EvANS devotes a little space to the discussion of that great desideratum
-a proper and nniform standard of work ; and in relation to the many difterences of
opinion existing upon the subject, he mentions something with which our own Grand
Lodge is not entirely unfamiliar, that while the oldest and best informed Masons
may not have exactly the same versions, novitiates of a month's or a year's expe·
rlence are not unfrequently the loudest and most positive in their assertions aH to
the possession of the "ancient work." And we take the occasion to express our
gratification that from so high a source has come the expression of an opinion,
consonant with our own, that while the essential portions of the Ritual should not
and need not be departeq from, mere forms of J?hraseology may well be changed
to secure harmony and uniformity, most especially when the result will be pro·
ductive of good Engliah. The Address closes with a well deserved compliment to
.
the accomplished Grand Secretary of.New York.
We remark the announcement of the Grand Master, that he had issued a Dispensation to the members of HoUand Lodge, No. 8, ·their Warrant "having been
taken from them by the Master, who contumaciously resisted the demand upon
him for its returd, together with the property of the Lodge." It surprised us that
nothing more in regard to the action ot' that Lodge appears in the proceeding~.
Soon after the close of our last Communication the Grand Secretary received a
pamphlet dated at New York, August thirteenth, 1855, entitled, "An Address of
Holland Lodge, No. 8, to their Masonic Brethren," the first paragraph of which
presents the following not very logical or Masonic language: "Imperative necelsity, cOt1pled with an honest de8ire to add Of.Ir humble <fforta to allay
tile disunrions which for the past eight years have destroyed the reputation of the Mason·
le Fraternity of this State, fias induced Holland Lodge, No. 8, to cast asidt tht alltgi·
11nct to which she has hitherto been subject, and to declare herself free and independent of
all control and authority, save such as the ancient landmarks and usages of the Order
have prescribed.''
It is unnecessnry, and would be giving too much notice to a revolutionary and
unmasonic paper to quote further. It is probably the first instance since the time

of the four old Lodges in London, where a single Lodge has had the absurd pre1umption to declare itself "free and independent;" and we only refrain from

8

68

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

[May,

saying more upon an occurrence so remarkable, because we are not informed
i'1at the Grand Lodge of New York-the body most interested in such an act of
r ~hellion-has taken anr action upon the subject.
The Report on Foreign Correspondencfl is, as for some yeurs pnst, from the
skillful hand of Bro. FrNLAY M. Kum, the Senior Grand Warden of N ew York.
W e regret that he was unable to complete it, not half the Grand Lodges having
been presented in his r eview; and we r.egret still more that the many pressing
demands from other quarters connected with our duties to the Grand Lodge,
prevent UR from giving time and space to the usual valunble information it contains. He notices in approprinte termR the recognition of the Grand Lodge of
N ew York by that of Missi~sippi, and stateR that such recognition has now t aken
place in every Grand Lodge In the worl!l wher e definit e action has been had upon
the l!llbject ot' the difficulties In that jurisdiction. The only su~IJfd exceptionH
are Pennsylvania, which holdR little correspondence with other Grand BodicR of
the world-Saxony, which too liberally acknowledges all podies claiming to be
Masonic, and thus, recognizing the rebelliouR organization in New York, iR no
longer communicated with by the Grund Lodge of' that State-and Hamburg,
which ha& acknowledged the true Grand Lodge, but which, having improperly
sought to establish subordinates in her territory, bas not only been cut off from
correspondence with that Grand Lodg e, hut is refused communication with by
most of the Grand Lodges in the United States. Considerable space iA given to
the discussion of the Canadian question, and a r esolution was presented and
adopted, declaring that "as at present advised, the Gra nd Lodge of New Yor);;
cannot recognize as a Grand Lodge, the newly formed body in Canada, claiming
to be the Grund Lodge of Canada." The proceedings of the National Masonic
Congress at Paris, to which we alluded in our last r eport, are given in full, and
in another place we shall avail ourselves in part of the copy thus presented.
Resolutions were offered and adopted authorizing the appointment of a suitablo
person to compile and write a history of Masonry in New York, and at a later
period we observe that the R.'. W." and Rev. Bro. SALEM TowN was selected to
perform that important task.
· Five out of the nineteen District Deputy Grand Masters presented r eports, and
in each case, it was represented that the Officer had not been able to discharge
the duties of his office, to a greater or less extent. The Grand Master is of course
a better judge than we, but it is difficult to conceive from the published proceedings that this system so far has been productive of any particular good in
N ew York. The theory is a good one, a nd could Deputies be found who would
always perform the duties proposed for them, fully and faithfully, it is impossible
to deny that ffi!Ch a system would be productive of most beneficial effocts ; as the
Lodges would by such means be subjected to a nearer and more scrutinizing
supervision. But our reading of the proceedings of the various Grand Lodges
for the past three y ears, preparatory to writin g our reports, haR shown us, in most
cases, how signally the practical eftects have failed to keep pace with the theoretical benefits. Year after year it bas been the same-a few only of the Deputies
making reports at all, and of those few, the greater portion making a report only
to show r easons why they have done little or nothing of that which was expected
from them. And thus, though strongly impressed· w ith the good results which
might be derived from such a system of sub-divided surveillance, nnd at one time
almost inclined to recommend it, we are admonished by the experience of other
jurisdictions that, as a general rule, it is impracticable to find a sufficient number
of those who will properly fulfill its dutieR, and that we must look to some other
mode for the accomplishment of the benefits it proposes.
We are not much in the habit of making up our reports with f!Cissors, but it
does sometimes happen that a brief, or even a lengthy abstract, cannot do justice
to a subject as presunted in the .proceedings of other jurisdictions. Believing the
case of the proffer ed mediation by the Grand Lodg e of Pennsylvania, between
the Grand Lodge of New York and the pretended, though outlawed body of that
name, to be one of these instanceR, and thinking it proper that the severe, though
just and well-merited rebuke which has been given to Pennsylvania for its 11rrogance and discourtesy, not more in the proffer than in the manner in which it wn~
made, should be presented in full, we give the following special report by the
Committee on Foreign Cor r espondence of New Y ork, to whom the subject had
been submitted:-

59

"The Committee on Foreign Correspondence, to which bas been referred the proffer or
n1edietion from the Grand Lodge of Pennsvlvania; so much of.the address of the M.·. W,.,
llrand Master as relates to this subject ;. t6e preamble and resolutions offered b)' the W,.,
W. A. CARPENTF.ll; and various other papers and resolutions relating thereto, beg leave
l<t aubmit the following report :"The proposition for a mediation on the part of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, ia
1•011tni11ed in what appears to be the copy of an extract from thP. minutes of that Grand
Lodge, sent by the Grand Secreta.ry thereof to the M.·. W,., Bro. JAMES PAGl!, a Past
flrand !\laster of that State, and by the latter forwarded to the Grand Secretary or New
York. Relying upon the honor of this distinguished brother, your committee h1we con·
Rdence to believe that the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania has made the proposition which
I• therein indicated ; yet it is not customary for the Grand Lodge of New York, nor any
other prudently conducted !)OVerning body of l\lasons, to take cognizance of, much less
tu Ket upon, questions of th1• importance, without something to indicate the official char·
11cter of 1he transaction. Though the Grand Lodge ma.v justly feel a diffidence in enter·
t11ining a proposition that has been made in this form, the committee have ventured to
ronsider it as it it had been officially communir.ated to your M.·. n~., Dody.
The paper, containing that proposition, reeds as follows:'OR.AND LODGE OF PE:-INSYJ.VANJA.
' SPECIAL CO!JMUNICATIO!' .
'~TEW HALL,

CnesTNUT sr1t1~r, Pnrun1Lrou...
'Janunry 7tb 1 A. D. 1866, A. L. 6856,
motion of Pn•t Grand lll••ler Bro. JAM•S PAGE, l\nd duly •econd•d by Bro. Wu. B.1.1x1n,
the following preamble and resolution• wore adoptod •Ith greRt unanimity, to wit: 1 On

' WhP,reas, An unhappy condition ot sffolra now extstll, mad hru1 md~ted for some time Jn the
or New York, and whoreao tht• Grand J.odge has taken no part
wtm.tevcr in tho controver1ty, not he.ving rec~nized either of the bodies cleimingto be the Grand
l••IKe or that Stat.., nnd I• therefore In n po'ition to interpose her friendly offices with a view to
the restorntion of Me.1<0nic lrnrmony in thBt jurl ~diction; therefore,
'}l.,.nlve<l. That this Grand Lodge do autl.Jorize Its R.-. ll';, Ornnd !laster to appoint fourbreth·
r•n. him,.,Jf being n flnh , to constitute a committee In ber behalf, to tonder her mediation to the
~fRllOnt r. l!'raterulty of the Stat•

lo0<lles of Masons referTPd to in the pre~mble, for the purpose, If possible, of settling and
U1\ting the controversy between them.

term!·
1R esol.vW., That In case of their l\Cceptance or •uch mediation, the said commltfoe •hall have
rull and ab•olute power to act for thi• Grn.nd Lodge In the premise•: provided, however, that the '1
•hall not proceed In the dl•charge of their duties, unless It be previously stlpulat.d and egroed,
lhd their decision, nfter fully hearing both pulfo•, shall be oon•idered no the decl!lon of
thlo Grand Lodge, and It be binding and ronduslve upnn all <'O ncerned.
'The R: .W.-. Ornnd ~fa•terwaR plenscd to appoint the following onmedbrethren said com·
mltt.e, •lz : ' R. "w.., P•st Grand Ma•tero Bro••TAMF.8 PAGE, S .u111EL BADGER, SAMUEL II. PUEJNS, nnd Wu,.
LIAM WHITNEY.
1r.xtract from the Q>lnut••·
WILLIAM

•To J .n:IEl!I PAGE, EFq., Chairman!

u. ADAMS, Grand &cretarv.

"Under circumstances other than those iuvol"ed in, and which have a bearing npon
would
roel themsel"es excused from any further discussion of the subject than is contained in the
nhjer.tions offered by the Committee on Forei~n Corres1;>ondence to the proposition of
the M ... w ... Rro. FosT.ER, of Missouri, in 1853, of suhm11ting tho samo matters to the
Jmlgment and determination of the Grand Lodges of Massachusetts and Virginia. That
proposition was made nt n time when an idea of its possible acreptance might have bePn
ttntertained by those who were not familiar with the questions involved. The proceP.d·
1nrs of our sister Grand Lodges, for two years past, show 1hat the objections offered to
It, have been extensively considered ; and wherever considered by intelligent and dispas·
•lonate minds, h1we been regarded as insuporeble obstacles to any possible mediation on
the part of any Grand Lodge or Grand Lodges in the world. The previous proposition
of Ohio to act as a mcdiater was also declined; and why it is that Penns,rlvMia should
111leem herself, or any committee she might appoint, helter qualified lo arbitrate the differ••ner.• formerly existing here is difficult for this committee to c.onceh·e. True it is, that
ueither Ohio, llfassachusetts or Virginia, will vt1il their action, from wanl of Masonic
knowledge, integrity, sound legislation, intelligence or fidelity to the landmarks and usa11'" of our inslill!tion, before any Grand Lodge whatever.
" And this committee, having some knowfedge of these qualities, as manifest in the
hlatory of these illustrious bodies, do not hesitate to accord to them1 respectively, a stand·
Mrd in these particulars which admits of no superior. But, asiae from these circwn~lances, with entire deference to the age, experience and wisdom of the Grand Lodge or
l'tnnsylvania, this committee believe that the Grand Lodge of New York, or any other
llrand Lodge in this country, would feel much safer in trusting the arbitrament of any
111111tions involving its existence, as docs the present, to either of the above mentionei:t
tbi~ third proposition for a mediation in the affairs of New York, your committee

60

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDING9.

[May,

hodies than to that of Penns.ylvania; and for reasons, by no means derogating, in the
~light.est particular, from the mtegrity of that body, but for others we will state. 'l'he
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania is, and bas been, since her organization in 1786, nearly a
sealed book to the other Grand Lodges of the world. Her current history has only been
known through the medium of personal interronrse with her members, and the occasional
reports of her Grand Master and her Financial Committees, or the dedication of some
h~ll. Jn the latter case, her r.ourtesies have been measnred rather by the caprice of individuals than the generous politeness which is the natural produrt of true l\fasonic brotherhood. While many of her members are Masons of enlarged minds, of great ability,
of unflinching integrity and comprehensive pliilanthropv, ancl have shown themselves the
friends of the Grand Lodge of New York and of her sister Grand Lodges, the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania, as a body. is insular, exclusive and peculiar. 111 different respects, its exterior boundaries encircle a system of Masonry that is unknown, in practice,
to any other Jurisdiction iu the United States. It know• not, or if it knows, it studies not,
the wants, wishes or opinions of its sister Grand Lodg~s in this country. It has liule or
no sympathy in common with the rest of the Masonic world. In derision and ronleJ1!pl
of the universal opinions and practices of the Grand Lodges of this country. it coutmues its supervision and control over other branches of Masonry, from which, rn deference
to their wishe• and to preserve harmony in the Masonir, fold, it should have been long
s;nce separated. lts course, in this particular, has not only created party feuds among ils
own members, but bas caused unpleasant discussion and irritation to the body of the Fraternity and to the governing Masonic bodies of the nation. With what propriety, then, if
a mediation were proper or desirahle, can the Grand Lodge of New York accept that
of Pennsylvania and reject the Grand Lodge of Ohio, Massachusetts or Virginia 1 each
and all of whom, in nearly all particulars we have uamed, mny be said, with great pronriety, to have moved in harmony with 'the music of the Union, 1 while Pennsylvania
his not.
" The committee can hardly believe that the Grand Lodge of Pennsylva11i9 are cogni•
z:int of the facts which are involved in one of the subjecls tliat they propose to determme,
which are afforded in the rebellion that took place in this Jurisdiction m 1849. For the
i 1formation of that hody we will briefly present them. The Grand Lodge of New York 1
J;ke all other Grand Lo~ge• in this country, which succeede~ the Provincial ~r~n<t
Lodges previously established here, was formed by a convention of Lodges derivmg
t'1~ir o~iginal authority from different sources, viz. : the tw.o Grand I:odges then (1785) exi<tmg m England. In the month of June of that year, this convention, (the country bav100' passed from under British rule,) threw up the authority of the Provincial Grand
Lgdge, and forme_d a_ Constitution for the goyernment o~ t.he Craft !'s a soverign jurisdiction. The Const1tutton thus adopted, contained a prov1s1on allowmg P ast Mast~rs t~e
1>rivilege of membership in the Grand Lodge. There was doubtless much propnety m
this provison, at that time, on account of the paucity of members in that body. Io the
various revisions of that instrument which had been made thereafter until 1848, this pro;
vision had been retained, with some other provisions of equal importance; and the latter
are still retained. llut in consequence of the privilege so given to Past Masters, the
nnunal elections supplying a new Past Master for each Lodge, ergo, a new member of
the Grand Lodge, every year, this class of members had become so large at the last
named period, tlie.t it controlled and directed the legislation of the Grand Lodge almost
entirely upon every subject in which they felt an interest. That body was made 110 cumhersome by their p~esence, partic!pation, and often boisterous act•Of!. that fogislation,
jnslice and progress m the proceedings of the Grand Lodge, were ahke denied. The
Grand Lodge was compelled, ex nec..aitate rei, either voluntarily lo pt>rmit the dissolution
of that body, to allow this class of irresponsible. and sometimes t.urbulent members, to .do
the legislation of the Grand Lodge to the excluSJon and clestruchoo of the representauve
rights and powers of the Subordmate Lodges, or curtail the privileg-e of voting thus exerr.ised by them. lt r.hose to do the latter, which it did by the adoption of an amendment
t~ thf! constitution, limiting the privilege of voting, exercised b.v this class, to the Pmit
Master of each Lodge who had last past the chair thereof. 'J'he Past Masters who were
t'Iereby deprived of this privilege, retained, nevertheless, their membership in the Grand
Lodge an<I exercised all othn powers nnd privileges undisturbed. The amendment
referred to was adopted in the Grand Lodge at its Aunual Communication, in 1848, and
by a very large majority of the members present. We speak from recollection in expressing ~he belief that it was adopted by nearly. 8: unanimous vote. Afte! being so
adopted. 1t was appended to the document contammg the annual transactions of the·
Grand Lodge, under the head 'Proposed .Ame~dments,' '!nd in I.hat form sent out to the
subordinate Lodges of the State for their action. Of mnety-nme Lodges, then under
this jurisdiction, fifty-nine took action upon it; fifty.six voting in fn.vor thereof, •;nd three
vo1in0' a"'aiost it; the balance not having voted. 'l'he returns of the Lodge• having been
m~i&the Grand s~cretary, he a.nd tl:ie GrMd J\faster examined them, and in his addt~n at the Annual Communication of 1849, the latter announced the result as above

6A67.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALirORNIA.

61

lnrlieated, and stated, that by virtue thereof it had become a part of the constitution. On
lhl1 announcement bein&' made, one of the party opposed to 11 arose and asked the Grand
M111ter if he distioctlv understood him that the amendment was adopted. and had become
I part of the conslit1ition of lhe Grand l,odge 1 To which the Grand Master replied, in
111b1tance, what he had before stated-that by virtue of the action taken. it had become a
part of the constitution. (We don't pretend to give the words used.) But on this reply
halng made, the interlocutor before-mentioned, jumped up on one ot lhe seats, and pre·
rlalmed, ' Then I declarll this Grand Lodge dissolved; and I call upon all who ore oppn1ed to the amendments to unite with me in organizing a Grand Lodge.' Thereupon a
number of Past Masters who were collected in a body near the East, sprang to their feet,
and amidst cries aud yells and imprecations tbnt were disgraceful to o Muouic body,
11retended to elect one of their number chairman , and went through the form of electing
a list of Grand offioers. During all this time the Grand Master was occupying the ~hair,
with the gavel in hi• hand, frequently calling to order, to whirh 110 allenlton was paid by
the disr.ontents. When they got through with this part of the outrages, they seized the
1101 eontaining the fund• of the Grand 1-.odge which had been paid in by the represf'ntll·
tlve•. then in the han.ds of the Grand Secretary, and with such other effects as they could
~I hold of, made off with them. A motion was then made by the Senior Grand \\ arden,
who was slill orcupying his place, to adjourn the Grand Lodge to the next dny. which
WH put by the Grand Master, and carried. At the time to which the Grand Lodge was
thus adjourned, it ronvened and went on with its business.
"It is now objected by those who were engall'ed in the riot, 1tnd their sympathizers,
thM the amendment was the exercise of unauthorized power ; that it was insufficient in
rnrm; that its executiou was a violation of the compact of 1827; and that it was destructive of vesled rights.
.
"We believe these to be the most prominent objer.tions, the only ones, indeed, of surllrient weight ·to call for discussion, which afford any possible ground• for the rebellion.
We will lirielly answer them in their order; and,
" !st. The abstract power of amendment is undeniable. It may be exercised by all
Urnnd Lodges. It was specifically _given to the Grand Lodge of New York, in the orig·
lnal constitution, and in every rev1s1on of that instrument up to 1845; and this, without
rowtriction as to any part thereof, except RS to those laws of Masonry which are perp~I·
nal. Witho11t stoppmg to quote from the constilulion whir.h wa.• amended, other part•
Ihereof 011 the same suhject1 it will be sufficient to give the language of Article I., in which
the grant of this power ts made ; it reads : " Every Grand L odge hos an inherent powflf
Mud authority to make )oral ordinances and new regulotions 1 as well a• to amend and explain the old ones, for their own partir.ular benefit, and the good of Masonry in general;
provided, always, that the ancient laudmarks lie carefully pre.s erved,'' &c. The abstract
authority to make an amendment is so plainly given here, that the committee are unable
to employ any language to make it plainer. They will here leave it, believing that no
1ane mind ran dispute its meaning. If, then, the abstract power of ameudmeut existed 1
the Grand Lodge of New York was the proper and only pnrly to judge of the time anti
rircumstanres requiring its exercise. Derore any other Grand Lodge rau do this for her.
New York mu•t cede her sovereignty to, or part with it, in behalf of that other GrRDll
Lodge which may so assume to !\Cl for her 1 and this she has ne\•er done. New York
b"ing, therefore, the judge of the time and circumstances requiring the <'Xcrrise of this
flower, she exercised it properly, 11nd her act was binding upon her constituents; unless
the act was rendered 11ugatory bv one of the other ob)e(\1ons we have named, and the
dr•I of these is : that the omendmei1t was insufficient in form. Our impreHiou i1 1 that the
111ceders themselves never, in any of their orgumeute, pretended for a moment, that the
1me11dment was defective in language. No exception wh11tever 1 to our knowledge, ba1
over been taken to the lang·uage. But tho defect in form is. r.laimed to have been in the
manner of ascertaining an<I clrrlarinll' the result of the action of the Lodge• upon the
amendment. This result was ascertamed, and declared by the Grand Master and Grand
lfeeretary. as before-mentioned, from the rertilied returns oflhe Lodges sent in to the latter
ntllcer. The Constitution wns entirely silent as to wlto, or"°"' it should be nsrertaineJ
1111d declared; nor had we any law or resolution upon the subject. Who, then, in such a
flle, is the proper officer or officers to do this busmess 1 Is tt not the duty of the Gra11d
tlecretarv to rxamine the returns; and who but the Grand Master •hall declare the reNults, in the absence of a specific designation of the molters reeorted to him by the for.
mer officer? The Grand Lodge of Louisiana is to-day workmg under a Constitution
thRt was proc.luimed to be the organic Masonic law of that State by the President of a
Convention, the yeas and nays having been taken down by the Secretary thereof. The.
llrat Constitution of the Grand Loage of California was adopted by resolution; and
although they are now acting under another and very different one, which was adopted
by the Grand Lodge , .it does not appear that au,v one but the ~rand 8e~ retary ascer·
lllined the result 1 and it does not appeer that any one declared it, though 1t W881 doubtleu, done by the Grand Master. Jo the amendment of the Constitutions of the Grand

62

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.'

[May,

Lodges of the United States. tl:e instances are very rare, where the result is ascertained
by any one but the Grand Secretary, while their ascertainment occurs, in innumerable
instances, by that officer alone; but in New York it was done hy both the Grand Mast~r
and Grand Secretary. We have the certiticati; of both these officers. on record. If their
correctness had been disputed by the contumacious members, why did they not ask fo; a
committee a l the time, to exam1De the returns 1 No, on the o•her hand Mr. P.h1llips,
the principal actor, admitte<f their currect·n e.•s, by risirtf!: in his _placr and declannp: tht
Grand Lodl(e dissolved(!) in consequence thereof, and, b~ca~se '!had c~ang~d I~~. Con·
•titution of the memherships of that body. Let us here mqmre. ID all smcerity,_1f ID oh·
jecting to the form of the act, its objectors, in view of these facts, do not •acrifice lbe
whole fact, proofs, and every reasonable. ~spec! of the case, not to aform, for no form
was _pre~cribed, but to the shadow of a vision, and unreal at that 1
.
•
"But it was a violation of the compact of 1827, say the recusants. This pretenr.e is
unworlhy the intelligence of the objectors. The only allusion to Past lllasters whatever,
in that instrument, is contained in the following language, viz. : " The number of LodKe•
which one Master or Past Master may represent shall not e:<ceed three. That Past
Masters shall not be represented by proxy." 'J'be amendment limited the voting powers
of Past Masters, as such, to the one who hnd last passed tbe chair. Does this amendment iuterfere with the privileges indicated in the above language of the compact 1. Does
it limit the number of Lodges which a Past Master ma.v rel'.r~se~t 1 It.says. nothlDg ,on
this subject. He may represent as many now as before. Does 1t restrict his authority
to be represented hy a proxy 1 That was done hy the compact itsel_f, which the amend·
ment has in nowise limitl'd. The amendment, therefore, has no possible reference to the
compact. But, suppose it had swept that instrument from our records entirely, wil! Penn•
sylvania contend that the act would not have been lawful 7 Had the last ire11er~t1on any
right to impose upon the present a local law that should be perpetual 1 There 1s not ltn
instance, either in municipal or Masonic law, that. affords such an example. No surl1
power can be exercised. It has not heen reposed m mortal hands:
.
"It is claimed that the adoption of the amendment was destructive of the vested rights
of Past Master;. This phrase, 'vest~d rights,' is a new on~ t<,> Masonry. How fr~­
quent soever it may occur in civil, c'!mmon .or statute Jaw, 1t 1~ un~now~ to Masomc
law. It does not occur in any Masonic treatise extant. Exccptmg m an isolate~ case
in Ohio, where the interest involved was no~ of sufficient impor!ance. to deser':'e '!- d!scussion of tbe principle, it is doubted whether 1t was ever recogmzed m Maso1~1e 3ut1spru· .
dence by a Grand Lodge. It certainly has not been regarde~ by. our sister <?ran<l
Lodges, as instanl'e-Mississippi, Louisiana, Florida and Califorma, .where '~1ghts'
similar to those exercised by the Pust Masters of New York have been, m some mstan·
•es, abridged, and, in others, swept away entirely. If the act in _the case of New York
destroy her Grand Lodll'e, it destroyed each. and all of these; form ea~h and all of them
the repose of •vested rights' was equally disturbed. But let us submit lo oyr brethren
of Pennsylvania, for we recognize among them some very able. lawyers; is 1t a pa'.t or
the whole of a Constitution which a person ~wears to support, 1f ~t all 1 Are the ri~hts
which accrue to him therefrom abstract and 1Ddependent of restramt; or are they sub3ect
to the qualifications and limitat'ions impose~ there!n 1 They.will :>l once IP;ll ~s,_that the
whole Constilution - the rights and franchises, with the qnahficat1ons and hm1tat1ons are
taken together. We heg now to call their attention to a provision of the Constitutiou of
the Grand LodgP of New York, which ":e ~ave before copi~d, under which th11 ~~ceders
in this State or their ancestors. took their right of membership. The same provmon, has
been repeat;,d, as often as our Constitution bas been revised1 for over fifty :yeau, certa1Dly1
und we think for seventy ye~rs. It is, that the Grand _Loage ma.v exercise 'power and
authority to make local ordmances, and new regulations, o.s well as to amend ~nd ex·
plain the old ones, for their (its) own particular benefit, and the good of l\la:onry ID .gen·
era!, provided, always, that the ancient lan~marks b11 carefully preserved. Here 1s no
limitation to the power and authority of makmg amendments, excep.t as to the !andme~ks;
hut it does con tam a limitation upon the privileges _a nd rights gr?~IDg out of 1t, t~at '"• a
reservation of power to enlarge or abridge their rights and pr!v~leges, an~ ~h1ch they
took along with the other provisions. and must he governed by 11 ID ascertammg the ex·
tent and permanency of their fr011chises ._ If thi~ h~ admit.led., and it cannot be denied,
withoul denying the enhrety of the Constitut1011 m its applic~hon to, and government of,
its supporters tbe Mtion of the Grand Lod"'e was legal and3ust; for, we thlDk we have
before shown; that the Grand Lodge itself fa the judge of the time and circumstances re•
<JUiring an amendment.
.
..
" lt occurs to the Committee that it should be stated there 1s a provmon of our former
Constitution, whir.h provided that an a!'lendll'!eut might be made in either of two ways:
first it could be adopted by the affirmallve art10n of the Grand Lodge thereon, at two An·
nu al Communications; or the affirmative a ction of the Grand Lodge at one Annual Communication and the subsequent affirmative action of a majority olthe warranted Lodges.
The latter ~ourse was pursued, as before •lated. Thus much in respect to this brancl1 of
the subject.

&851.)

GRA~l> tot>G:l!l o~ dAtfroR:ktA.

63

"Shortly after the secession took place, in 1849, the Grand Lodge of the State, as well
to the various Grand Lodges of this country and Europe statements respecting the questions involved and the occurrences that took place. These
documents were earnestly canvassed by most of the Grand Lodg~s in both hemispheres,
and with nn individual exception, the Grand Lodge of New York, to which this report is
made has been recognized as the true, lawful, and only Grand Lodge of the State of
New York. The exception we have named wns in the case of Saxony, which, in the recognition of ourselves1 also recognized the seceJers, as they would have recognized forty
other Grand Lodges m New York, had claims therefor been presented. Scorning surh
action as this, as being abhorrent to the Masonic sentiment of the United States, the
Grand Lodge of N cw York repudiated its action and suspmded intercourse with the body
which bad adopted it. The only instance in the United States where specific action has
not been taken, outside of Pennsyh•ania, is i'! the case ~f Georg!a. And the reason why
"ct ion was not there taken , as told to the Chairman of this committee by the late M.'.
WM. C. DA wsoN, Grand Ma~ter of that State, was, that "the pretence of the seceders to
be the Grand Lodge of New York, was so absurd, that the Grand Lod~e of Georgia did
uot or would not so much countenance their claims as to consider them.' This conversation was held with the lamented Bro. DAWSON in the rotunda of the capitol al \Vasbing·
ton, in January, 1855, in the presence of the R ... w ... Grand Secretary of New York.
The relations of New York and Georgia have ever been the most cordial and fraternal ;
the learned and accomplished R ... w ... WM. S. RocKWF.LL, one of the Deputy Grand
Ma•ler of Georgia, being our Representative near that distinguished body.
"The Grand Lodge of New York has at various times held out the olh·e branch to the
~~ceders, and at one time threw its doors wide open again to receive them; many of them
then returned, but the balance, who are yet. maintaining their hostility to the Grand Lodge,
cle~lined the proffered boon. Our co11cess1ons have seemed to malie them only the more
•tubborn ; but the Grnnd Lodge has been severely criticised by many of our sister Grand
I.odges for the liberality thus extended. Nor can the Grand Lodge of New York, with
uny respect to the opinions of her sist«;r Grand L~dges over the w?rldt rec~de from the
position she has hcretofo~e taken, or d1.sr«;gard t?eir s'!lemn determ1.nahon wnh respect. to
the legitimacv of our achon by a subm1ss1on of its action to the arb1tram11nt of an umpire
who may undo the whole. !I would ?e. an insult to their intelligence and candor for
which New York could furmsh no palliation.
" Let us proceed to other aspects of this proposition for a mediation.
"The commillee are of th~ opinion t?a~ n~ither the Grand Lod~e of Pen~sylyania or its
11 fficers are on those terms with tho junsd1ct1on of New York which would JUSllfy the proposed suhmission. A change has taken place in these relations. 'fbat friendly feelings
were entertained by her toward New York as late as 1848, is evident from the fact that
~he then adopted a resolution on the fraternal request of New York, forbidding the admission of visitors from this State unless they presented a certificate from our Grand Secr~tary. After the secession, in 1849, information was communicated to the officers of the
Grand Lodge of this Stale, that some of the subordinate Lodges iu Pennsylvania were
pursuing a course calculated to encourage insubordination and perpetuate divisions
11mong 1bc Fraternity of New York. Y ct, trusting in the presumption that the acts indirntiu,,. this course were unbeknown to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania- that she
ronld° not long remain ignorant of them, and that as soon as informed, a correction would
hr administered, our officers forbore remonstrance until in 1852-3, when this committee
railed. a~tention to it in the .following: language, viz. : ' If ou.r inform~tio1,1 be. cor~ect, the
Jorisd1chon of Pennsylvama has given encouragement to msubordmahon m this Stale,
liy allowing those who have been expelled hy the Grand Lodge of New York to hold
)I aso111c intercourse with their memhcrs, and to visit their Lodges with as much freedom
llK if they were in good standing. This is not only 11 discourtesy to the Grand Lodge of
New York, bnt it is unmasouic 011 the part ofthoie permitting it. If the Grand Lodge of
New York is a regular Masonic hody (and we are not aware that this has ever been dis·
11uted l>y Pennsylvania,) the Grand Lodge of Pennsyh·ania cannot but realize that she
t• winking at gross violation• of Masonic obligations in allowing her constituents to fellowship with expelled Masons of this jurisdiction. Our informal!on on this subject is not
1ufficic ntly authentic to call for an iudication of an,r particular linl' of policy (then) to be
pnrsucd in the premises;• yet this information is of such a nature that we cannot entirely
diucgard it; we therefore submit a resolution, which, if answered, will prepare this Grand
l,odge to act advisedly when the matter is again brought before it.'
•
" The resolution submitted and then adopted, is as follows:• Rt>olved, Th&t the Ornncl Sccr•tllry be lnolrnc.ted to correspond with the Ornnd Lodge of
iu tbc seceders, sent out

w...

l'1&Dlfylvanin, and rctqueat ioforma.tion wbelher that Grand Lodge permltR iti;:i Rnbordinate Lodges

In ~Jlow tho visitntlon of lndlvidunls therein who havo b.en expolloo by tho Grand Lodge of New

'l'o••.'

u 'l'he Grand Secretary informs this committee that the duty herein enjoined was punctually attended to; but from that day to this no answer has been received. We are led to

64

&857.]

.Tot:iaNAL OF PROCEEDiNGB.

onclude \berefore \bat \be information 'received respecting this plain infraction of Ma-

~nic )a~ and usa~, and of Masonic duty on the part of the Grand .Lodge of ?eni;isylvania was entirely correct; otherwise an answer would have been given , denying its correclness. The omisaion to an1wer the respectful and fraternal letter ~e.nl lo them by ~he
Grand Secretary may be reconciled with the character of her pr?pos•l!on for mi;cl1a.ll<;>n
in our affairs, if we rightly unclerstand iq but it c:innot be reconc1.led w1.th Masomc C!Vlli ty. For the reputation of that body, this comm1ttee could wish m their heart~ that this
was the only a~t.of incivility committed by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvama toward
New York. but it is not.
.
.
"The Committee on Foreign Correspondence of this Grand Lodge, 10 lllM, after spea.k·
in wilh real kindness of the affaira of l'f!as<;>n!Y in that Stato, proceed to sa): : ' W~1le
th: eomm~ttee are alluding to Penns.vlvama, 11 1s proper to rommun1cate ,the mformal!on
which we have receivl'<i from W.·. llro. AsAHEL Hucx , of Chemt!ng 1 a!ley_ L?dfl"e, at
Chemung, in this Jurisdiction: that Ruraj. .Amity ,J,.odgc , at Athens, in. the JUnsd1et1on of
Pennsylvania, is 10 the pracl!ce of rece1vmg pel!l!ons from, ancl mak10g ~asons !>f, candidates residing in the State of New York. The adopt!o11 . of the resolut!on which ":as
presented in 18o3, and which was rell.dopted in 1854, forb1ddmg our subordmates ~rom. JO·
itiating non-rt&uunts, has not changed the minds of the comm1ttee ;hat t!1e ab;tr1ct..r1ght
to make Masons of such exists on the part of any Grand ~odge l
.
fiut as a matter of courtesy and fraternal kindness to our sister Gr8!1d. I .odges, ~cl m or·
der to reserve the peace and harmony of the Craft, wherever, w1th1i;i the prov10ce ~nd
mfluenc~ of this Grand Lodge, this most laudable object c ould be attame~, the resol1!t1on
forbidding such practic.e was adopted. And we very fraternally submit to our sister
Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, whether these obj~cts would not be. pro~oted '([, the
adoption on her part of a similar rule 1' A resolution was adopted d1rec.tmg the ~and
Secretary to communicate these views to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylva!11!', and to , f1a·
ternally solicit their consideration of the subject.' The 1locument contamn~g these proceedings was aent, as we are informed, by the Grand Secretary; but, as JO •he former
case, no reply to it has been made.
.
..
. .
" It might be supposecl, from the tenor of the foregomg propos!l1~11 for med1at1on, as
well as from what we have previously stated id r~gard to tlie 11dm.1ss1~n of. expelle~ ~l\·
sous from this :State into their Lodges, that th~se m regular .standmg Ill this JUnsd1ct1on
would al least be admitted to visit the Lodges m Pennsylvania ;.but the ~act appears In be
otherwise. Tne Grand Secretary has placed io the h~nds .of tlus eomm.'ttee ~ Jetter fr?m
one of our Past Masters, resident in this city, throwing hght upon th11 suhJect, which
reads as follows : ' N'EW YORK, December 4, 1856.

'J.ui•s M. Ausmr, ~~~d Secrelary Grand LodlJ', Slate qf Kew York.: -

' DEA>< SJ.a A"D BBOTBEa: Havioii occa•ion, reoently, ~ :v~•l t l'h1ladelpb ta, P&., I ".'valled my·
!18lf of t.b• prhilog;e as well as plea• ure, (a• I supposed,) of VlOJtmg one of the Lodg•s of} ree and A.,.
cepted Maseus of th.at city; but jud:.e of my surprise. when I W!U' Nfused a.dmitte.nce, with a. certif..
kate of our Moot Worshipful Grand Lodge ~n my hand, on the gyound that. they (tho Grand Lodge
of Pennsylvania) would not admit no vls1tor1 a.oy Mason halhng from New York. 11 there 110
remedy!
' Frateroally youro,
'P. 8. VAN BOUTON,
P. M., ..tbram1 Lodge, No. 20.'

" It is not impossible that this Lodge may have acted unadvisedly in the matter, but
the grounds assigned for the refusal indicate a full .know!edge of the feelings of that Grand
Locfge if not of some decision it has made, and tf so, 1t would appear from this and the
facts above related, that, while the e';lemies. of the Gra nd L.o~ge of New York, who ,have
been expelled by it, are permitted with entire freedom to v1a1t the Lodg~s of that State,
those who are in r~gular standing, so acknowledged by all the world besides, are refused
· admission. A complaint similar to the 01111 above haa been presented bY.
Brother
w. A. Carpenter, of Hudson Lodge, No. 7, and other brothers cerl!fy to s1m1lar cases of
discourtesy.
,
' an d d"1scourtesy toward. ,
" Hut we come to a matter equally pregnant w1"th d"111avor
01,
the Grand Lodge of New York. In the month of September la~t. a new hall was d.ed1cated in Philadeldhia to Ma1011ry, Virtue, and Univer1al Bent1)o/t:net. The comm1tte<1
appointed for that purpose extended invitations to all portions of the ~ount_ry, and especially to the officerK of our sister Grand Lodges, to come up and .umle with the Grand
Lod(:"e of Pennsylvania in the imposing c.eremouials. We were mformed through the
public preu, that vast numbers were in atten.dan~e, a~d that the e7ternal~ of the scene
were e;rand and impressive. It was an occasion m which those sublime. objects, to whoo
cultivation and use all Masonic halls are dedicated 1 sho~ld have a practical development;
for on such occasions it is that the~ennous votaries.of M".sonry, of wb.a tever St.ate or
country, of whate':'er.secl or deno!'lm.ati~n, attest their fid<Jhty I~ and thc1r.veneratJon for
the fraternizing pr1nctples of our 1n11htul1on; by brotherly greetings, the rnterchAnge of

"r···

GRAND LODGE OF CALiFORNiA..

fraternal sentiments, and by reciprocal pledges of dovotion to the hallowed tendencies of
tho Order . .But New York was not among the States to enjoy these privileges on thatocta1ion. The Grand Lodge, Grand Officers, and the territory of New Yorli. were as UD·
known to the CommillE>.e on Invitations and the Grand Officers of Pennsylvania, as if they
had not existed! That this d iscourtesy was intentional on the rart of the ruling powers
o( the Grand Lodge, is evident from the circumstances we wil relate. During a short
1oJourn of our Deputy Grund Ma.•ler, in Baltimore, the .w eek previous to that 011 which
the hal) was dedicated, he fell in company with Brothers Curtis and English, members·of
lho Grand Lodge of Penn;ylvania, and the latter, as stated by the former, Chairman of
lhe Committee on Invitations. On inquiring of Brother Curtis why it was that the Grnnd
J,otlge of New York hacl not been invited to participate in the celebration, he dicl not profeu
lo L>e informed, but referred the Deputy Grand Master to Brother Euf.lish, of whom be re•
~uested, in his official capacity, to know the reason for the omission. fhe answ11r was, that
l1r or the C ommiUee, (anil the Deputy Grand Master does not recollect which,) wos or wt.re
unable to <lelermrne which was the true Grand Lodge, a nd they had not, therefore, invited
tither. The Deputy Grand Master very properly remonstrated at such conduct, and claimed
(or our Gra nd Lodge not only that it was the Grand Lodge of New York, hut that as such it
hn<l been rer.ognized by the Masonic world, and tacitly, if not explicitly, by Pennsylvania
borself. Brotlier Engh~h expressed his regret al the circumstance, and wished to enter ink>
ti cliscussion as to our right lo L>e considererl the Grand L"dge ; which the Deputy Grand
.l\faster very properly declined, saying; in substance, thnt New York did not now feel r.alled
npou to prove her legitimac,v before any committee or L>ody of men. In the conversation
with one or the other of these brethren, he is unable to say which1 the Deputy Grand Ma1ter
w11sapologetically infonned that HENRY !'fl. PHILLIPS, the Jumor Grand Warden of Penu~ylvan i a, a nd a relative of an expelled 1\1ason in tliis S tate,' had ~xerr.ised a controlling inQuence' on this subject,' upon the action of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania.' He was
also told that the action of the Committee was in consonance with the views anrl feelinga
11( their Grand Lodge. Jt is proper to add that the tone of these brethren to the officer
referred to wa• quite apologet1c, and their demeanor entirely courteous and gentlemanly.
"One of the Past Gra nd Masters of New York, whose intelligence, exalted worth and .
Masonic fidelity bave extorted the c.ommendation of the Grand Lodges, both of our own
•nd foreign rountries, was accidentally present in Philadelphia on the day of the conseuat10n - called there, not by the politeness of the Grand Lodge of Pensylvania, or its
Committees, but by a clisP..-n•alion of P roYidence, in the prostration of a· near relative
upon the bed of extreme illness. H e was there with a name which for many year• had
reflected honor upon the character of Pennsylvania Masonry- wbich, in the person of his
l'lather, forty-four years previous, had conoecrated, in the same place, and pronounced hi•
benediction upon, the then most magnificent Masonic Hall m the Union, and through
whose exe rtions the present owners aro indebted for t.he very ground upon which their
edifice is erected. H is oration on that occ.asion is on eloquent commentary ou the
1Masured Masonry of his successors. The son of this revered and venerated Mason was
lhere, in the person of u Past Grand Master of New York, whose own career refiec.ta
honor upon Masonry, but those who should have greeted him with a fraternal welcome
• passed by ou the other side.'' Stringent orders bad hecn issued to receive no one from
Now York, under any circumstances. Tbe Grand Master of Pennsylvauia, the next
day, very kindly invitecl him to visit the Hall, 'it being open lo the public.' The invitallon was, cf course, declined. The P nst Grand Master WM, by nnother higlt officer of
Pennsylvania, modestly reminded that they did no\ remember so far back as when hill
l&ther presiced over the Craft in that State1 though he had thus presided for the long term
eight vears. Brother MILNOR repliea : ' We of New York ha.ve better memories·
lapse of iime does not weaken our attachment to those who, in pMt years, have devoted
1huir energies to Masonry.'
"The Committee are authentically informed, that there was but one opinion expretsed
by the visiting Grand Officers present, which was that of disapproval o( the course por1uod by P ennsylvania. This course, we notice, has been severely' commeuted upon
1lnce, especially by the Grand Master of Virginia, who, in bis late annual nddress to the
Grand Lodge of that Sta te, referring to the dedication in Phila.lelphia, says : 1I regretted,
hnwcvcr, to find , that the Grand Looge of Penns.vlvnnia has 1101 yet ·clcr.ided wbich of
1be organizations m our unfortun ate sister, New York, is the legitimate Grand Lodge of
lbat :State. While I would not say or do aught to censure the- Grand J.odge of Pennsyl·
Y&nia for her course, ye t I ca nnot forbear to exp res~ the opinion, that by her tardiness, she
/ta1 inflicted a deep il'Ound 011 that Masonic body in N ew York which all the other Gr1md
Lod1res in the Un iM haue recognized as the I.awfu l Grand L-Odge of that &ate, and which
hu borne herself so noblj under the severest trialo. In consequence of this condition of
•hln_g~ •. no Mason,.hailing from th~ State of New York , wa:s i';lvi~d.to participa~e in the
1'11tiv1t1es. Had 11 been otherwise, had there beeu an tnd1&crtnnnate adm1sswn of 'Rll
hailing from thal jurisdiction- of whatever organization - I, 1\8 the representative of the
Grand f,odge of Virginia, eould not haYe united with them, the Grand Lodge of Virginil)

nr

9

,

66

JOURNAL OF J.>noCEEDINOs.

[May,

bavin .. recognized that Grand Lodge in New York, of which M.·. lV.·. JosuH D. EVANS
is Gri:'nd Master. as the only lawful Grand Lodge in that State, and declared all other11
spurious or· clandestine. These things are to be deeply regretted.'
.
·'Considering, then, that the Grand Lodgo of Pennsylvania has. at no time, l>y any
formal action, so far as we are informed, expressed a douht about the legitimacy of the
Grand Lodge of New York, but that, on the other hand; she nas, by various eels, r~garded
our Masonic organization as regular and le~ti mate, from the dace of ils origin, urolc'5 a
reservation may ba made for the discourtesies above referred lo; !hot she h11s treated
our fraternal suggestions against her disregard of Masonic law and natio1rnl comity wilh
silent contempt i that she permits her subordinate Lodges to admit, as visitors, those who
have been exp~lled by this Grand Lodge, while, at the same time, she refuses admissiou
to those who are in regular standing in this Stale; that >he treats the Grand Lodge of
New York, and her vast constituenc.y, numbering nearly double her own , with studious
contempt, through marked indignities to her and their highest officers, and that, indeed,
all Masonic intercourse with the Grnnd Lodge of New York, and her faithful sul>ordinatts
and constituent•, is de facto cut off by the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, your Committee
would ha\·e no hesitation, at this point of the discussion, in indicating the conrlnsion to
which they have arrived, es to the form of the answer which should be given to the po·
position that has been made on the part ohl1at body.
" But, fearing that the sentiments heretofore expressed by this Grand Lodge may uol
have been considered by the Grand 'Lodge of Pennsylvania, though those sentime11ts
have been promptly conveyed to her in the cransmission of our annuof transactions, whi< h
have been regularly forwarded as issued from the press, che Committee deem it proper
to repeat them as expressed, in declining the proposed mediation of Massachmrlt• 011d
Virginia before referred to.
" They are in substance, and nearly in language, as follows : "ht. The Grand Lodge of New York rests upon the some foundation of Masonic
law and Masonic priuciples that form the ba•is of ell the otber Grand Lodges of the
Union; wi~h the consciousness.of this fact, it cnnnot permit itself ~o be placed in a position that might lead to a rf'cesston from the just and high grounds 1t has heretofore taken
in preserving its ho11or and integrity.
"2. It cannot, with any regard to its dignity a11d prerogatives, allow itself to be placed
upon an equality with those whom it has expelled ; nor can it be a part'· to any measure
which might lead to a restoration of nn irresponsible representative power in the Gran<!
Lodge wliic.h it has lopped off from a sense of imperious duty, and to preserve the juri~­
diction from impending ruin.
"3. If we could persuade ourselves that it would be right or expedient for the Grand
l.odge of New York, having a constituency nearly double that of Pennsylvanii<, inc.luding
at least three-fourths of all the Lodges in the cities of New York and Brooklyn, wit&
memberships outnumbering those of any other jurisdiction in the Western hemisphere, to
dissolve our organization for the purpose of pacifying ten or a dozen contumacious
•Lodges' in the city of New York, \here is nothing in the. character of the 1chi11nalic1
affording n11y re.liable g uaranty against the repetition of the same sceues of violence and
outrage with which their rebellion c.ornmenced.
"4. We conceive, that a proposition for mediation between the Grnud Lodge of New
York or any other re~ lar Masonic body, and the Scotti•h Rite organiz11tion, lately estal;>lished in the city of New York, would require an abandonment of all self·respert, onrl
would be conceding to them 10~ ground1 for continuing their unlawful assemblies for
whicl\ there is not now the shadow of a pretext. Jf the proposed mediation shoula1 ho
unsuc.cessful, in inducing them to abandon their organizations, it would be e gua1i acknowlei:lgment that they were right in their position.
"II. The individuals who resuscitated what they ore pleased to call •St. John'• Grund
Lodge,' are of such material that tbc Fraternity can derive 110 benefit from their connection with it. and it i" the opinion of this committee, that it is far better for the i11terests of
the Cran, that they should remain out of the Order than be permittt'd to return iulo it.
"A proffer of medi11tion to those bodies, in the city of New York, whirh pretend to
derive authority for their Masonic existence from the Grand Lodge of H~mburgh, would,
of course, be a direct acknowledgment to them and the Grand Loilges of Europe, thll.t the
princiP.le• of indivisible sovereignty and of Grirnd Lodge supremacy, whirh universally
prevail among the Grand Lodges of the United Stutes, art matter1 of compro1ni1t, 'J'o
imagine, for a momcut, that these pri11c.iJ?les are legitimate suh)ects of ortiitretion is to
1
imagine that the Grauel Lodges of America can part with portions of their sovereignty,
and yet maintain their rightful authorily within thr.ir jurisdiction~. II, fostead of offoriug
10 compromise priuciples that arc so important, so vital lo the inter<"sts of Andent Cr11ft
Muonry in this couutry-if, insleHd of, by 111cit arquiescence in an invasiou of this kinrl,
encouragin_g it, as has bee n the c.ase with l'ennsylvania, the Grand Lodge of that State
shall meet 11 at 1he lhresholcJ, and declare the i111:cuitra to ht auch, anrl forb1cJ ell fellowship
witll them and the authors af their encroarhmen!S, sl1e .,.;11 have perf'Ormed a servict> thal

5857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

87

the vital interests of Masonry demand of her, and she may,1hereby,aaveherown territory
from like encroachments.
''As to any refractory conduct on the pnrtofanyofthe members of this Grand Lodge,
or its subordinates, we have far greater confidence in the remedial measure• that are
within the power of the Grand Lo<lge to ndopt, if these measures be not neutralized by
encouragement to disatrectiou from abroad, tlian in any mediation that can be otfored. If
the lawful edicts and solemn acts of the Grand Lodge of New York may be set at
naught; if its members may rebel against its authority and set up organizations for th«;m·
selves, claiming, and being encouraged by propositions or compromise, and b,)'. bemg
given the same privileges abroad as dutiful Masons, lo exercise the prerogative of M~sou­
lc government; if indeed foreign invaders may plant their colonies within our tcrr1t?ry,
not only without reproof, but without notico on the part of Pennsylvauin 1 these thmg:s
may not onlv be done in tlrnt jurisdiction as well as liere, b11t the Grand Lodge that will
stand by and regard them with indill'ereuce and tacit encouragement, is not, to our mind1 ,
either the safest or best qualified in the world to determine t&e questions involved in the
premises.
" Your committee, therefore, submit to the Grand Lodge tho subjoined re~olntions, aud
recommend them to its favorable consideration.
" Re•pectfully and fraternally submitter!.
" 1-'INLAY M. ICING,
CommiUte on
~~~~i'th·~~~S, Jn., Fur. Cormpondtm:e.

l

5

" I. R esolved, 'l'hat in \'iaw of the considerations presented in the foregoing report
lhe mediation proposed by the Grand Lod~e of Pennaylvania, ' to the bodie1 onlfasons 1
in this State be, and hereby i~, on tho part of the Grand Lodge of New York, fraternally
1ind respectfully declined.
"2. Rtso/11ed, That until the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania shall treat this Grand
Lodge with Masonic re"pect, and a& an equal among the Grand Lodges of the Union,
all Masonic intercourse hetweeu that Grand Lodge, and the Grand Lodge of New York
be, and hereby is suspended.''
The report wn~ 11cceptcd, nnd the firat resolution w11s adopted- the second being
laid on the table by conRent of t he mover. We have copied this in full , not only
hecau!!ll of !ta nnHwcr to the Grund Lodge of P cnnsylvanin, but bccau11e It presents
a r..encral review of the history of the difficulties in New York, which will doubtle~s be read with intercRt by mnny in this jurlsdlcilon not heretofore familiar
with the facts of the r ebellion of 184.!l nnd tho reRulta conAcquent thereupon ; and
because, further, our strong dcAire to aeo ihnt Grand Lodge maintv.ln the proper
nml dignified attitude it baa nssumed iownrds the Maaonlc reculll\nts within itR
tenitory, aml om· admiration of the ability which chnracterlzea !ta 1mblishc1l
paperR, impels UR to lond our feeble Ptforta to give publicity to aught concernln~
that important subject nrnong the Masons of this St11tc.
A r eport fh>m a apecir~l committee nppolnted at the previous Communlc11tlon
was presented, ad verse to any sectarian allusions In the dovotiono.l exercises of
the Lodges ; o.nd though we o.rc firm bellevers In tho doctrlnc11 of the Chrlstlnn
relig'ion ns set forth e11peoially in the. Episcopal Church, we subscribe to every
word uHcred in the r eport mentioned, upon the ground that Mo.sonry has as little
to do with religion (further than the bellP.f !rt the existence, nlmlghty power, and
infinity o'f God) as ft huH with politics, Odd Fellow!!hip, or the discovery of the
Northwest PaSRagc. We ure sorry to !lee that the r eport was laid upon the table,
11s such action wns In e!f~ct denying that principle of unlvcrenlity which probably
not on e of thoRc voting for It vmuld in terms deny, yet which t&ey as effectually
destroy by l~gislation which cnu only properly be charncterlzed aa bigoted in the
extreme. We believe in Miwmry In its broa<lest extent, governed on!;)'. in its
llrticleR of ftllth by that one crt•1•tl familiRr to all who are 11cquaintcd with the
ancient charges; und we think it would he n o greater outrage against that onP.
rPligious principle of tlHi Or<ler (I.he recognition of 11 Su1,>reme Being) to exclude
Christians, .Jew~ or MussulmPn altogether from its mysteries and benefits, than to
leii;islnte, or r<•fuse to legMo.t•', ln such u manner as t o declare tbo.t the p eculiar
religious views of either should be Incorporated in the ritual or devotional exercises of the Craft.
.
.\.resolution In fa,·or of the p roposed National Confederation was adopted. A
rommittee reported , in nnRwer to a question concerning the. right of a Master to
exclude a member of his Lodge, that be bad "the legal right to exclude, temporarily, any Brother whatever.'' whooo presence, in his opinion, would tend to disturb

68

JOURNAL OF PltOOEEDINGS,

[May,

the peace and harmony of the Lodge. This does not appear to have been acted
upon, but it seems to us to announce simply that which the language of the
ritual declaTes, and we have not 11 doubt of its correctness-the Master, pf course,
being responsible for the proper exercise of his discretion to 11 higher power. A
report was presented and adopted in favor of a proposed amendment of the ConMtitution, depriving all Past Grand Officers, except Past Grand Mttster~, of seats
in the Grand Lodge, by virtue of that rank. Sundry Repre~entntives from other
Grand Lodges were introduced antl properly welcomed. The financial reports
-.how the rnvenue of the year to have been $16,005-the disbursements to lmve
been $15,076, of which $3000 was invested for the Permanent Fund.• making $7000
now accumulated for that fund; and 11 balauce in the Treasury of $1512.
Three hundred and forty-eight chartered Lodges nnd five under Di~pensation now
11cknowledge thf.' supremacy of the Grand Lodge of New York. The Communication continued five days, the M.·. W.·. JoHN L. LEw1s, Jr., having been elected
Grand Master, and the R:. W.·. JAMES M. AUSTIN having been reelected Grand
Secretary.

NORTH CAROLINA.
The latest intelligence we have received from this Grand Lodge is found in the
proceedings of the Annual Communication, begun at the City of Raleigh, on the
third day of December, 1855-when the M:. JV:. CLEMENT H JonDAN, Grnntl
Master, presided, and the R:. W.·. WILLIAM T. BAIN was Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is principally devoted to matters of local
importance. He speaks of the period, within his own memory, when the initiation into our mysteries wns regarded almost as having entered into 11 league with
Sat11n, nnd "when every Church iu the laud, with perhaps here and there 11 soli·
tary exception," was arrayed in the general crusade against the Order; 11nd"he
contrasts it with the present time, when all the world seems desirous to join our
ranks, nnd when our rolls are graced with the names of so many hundreds of the
lw.st 11nd ablest of the Clergy. He mentions the having 111id the corncr·stone of
St. John's College, (an institution to be under the charge of the Grand Lodge,)
on the anniversary of St. John the Baptist preceding; 11nd considerable space
in the proceedings is occupied with reports and other matters having reference
to that establishment. We sincerely hope that our North Carolina brethren may
have better luck with their project than has befallen similar efforts in other
jurisdictions. He announces the formation of fifteen new Lodges, nnd recommends a reversal of the action of two years before,'when the system of filling up
the blank numbers with the names of new Lodges was adopted. We remark 11
very eloquent appeal from an old Lodge, Phanix, No. 8, which wns estnblisbed
hy the Grand Lodge of Scotland before the Grnnd Lodge itself was constituted
by that body in 1771, complaining of the injustice done by thus appnrently placing the Lodges of the eleventh hour in front of those who bad borne the beat and
burthen of th~ day ; and upon the report of a committee, the Grand Lodge receded from Its late action, giving new numbers to the Lodges which b11d received
the old ones, and restoring the original order of senlorit.y. This we think is ns
it should be, not only as a matter of rip:ht to the elder Lodges, but because the
history of Masonry in a St.ate is thus likely to be better preserved. Grand Master
JonDAN is op1Josed to the suggested Confederation of Grand J,odges, and at 11
later period the report of a committee w11s adopted, in accordance with his
views, that " the plan was both ineffectual and inappropriate."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence was prese11ted by Bro. H. J. MACON.
It is very brief, copying the proposed Articles of Confederation, 11nd offerin~ a
few remarks, with extracts from the action of other Grand Lodges, on the subject
of non-allili11tion. In connection with this question, we note that a resolution
was afterwards adopted, recommendinp: to the subordinate Lodges " to protect
themselves from the intrusion of non-affiliating Masons by imposing some amount
for them to pay;" and we somewhat incline to the opinion that could such a
regule.t.Jon become general, it would be productive of great effect in the cure o~
the evil which has become one of such universal complaint. The financial rc1)orts e:lhlbit e.n inoomo during the year of $1508, an expenditure of $1630, and
a b!Ue.nce on hand of $269. The Historical Committee was continued. One
h~ and 1mean ch.Artered Lcidges are now in active existence. The Com-

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

69

munication lasted five days, and the llf:. W.-. P.A. llor.T w11s elected Grand
MMter, and the R:. n~.. WM. T. BAL'/ was reelected Grand Secretary.

OHIO.
For the first time in four years h11s it been our good fortune to receive the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge of this State. 'l'he volume now before us contains the transactions of the Annual Communication, commenced at the Town
of Zanesville, on the twenty-first d11y of October, 1856 - the M:. W.·.Wn.r.IAllt: D.
Donos, Grand l\foster, presiding, and the R:. W:.J01rn D. CALDWELL being Grand
Secretary.
We observe a peculiarity in this jurisdiction, in first opening 11s 11 Master
Mason's Lodge, and 11fterwards opening the Grand Lodge. Ttie Grand Master
In bis Address l(ivcs a copious account of mnny Io~ul matters; Epeaks in appronrinte terms of the decease of the R:. W: ..AllSAI.OM DEATH, 11 Past Deputy Grnnd .
Ml\ster of Ohio ; and announces the issue of nine Dispensations to form new
f,odges during the yc11r. Four others were issued by the Deputy Grand Master.
He comments upon the duty of a Committee on Ch11rters and Dispensations, exrcssing the very proper opinion thnt beeides merely examining the work of
,odges under Dispensation, which are applicants for Ch!trLers, it is their province
to inquire into the necessity or propriety of their establishment in their various
localities. Ile alludes to tbq prevalent rage for ~ecret societies Jn lllilguage very
~lmil ar to that used by Grand Master llANDAJ.I,, of Massnchusetts, in bis v11lcdlc·
tory Address to the Grnnd Lodge of that State in 1854, but the f11cts n.nd deductions therefrom n.re none the less true and worthy of consideration for bein6 at
~ccond-hand. He, too, reprehends the practice of holding Masonic meetings in
the same halls with other Rocieties; and, although a Committee, to whom the
~ubject was referred, did not sustmn his recommendation to prohibit It, for the
reason, doubtless, that It would cause great inconvenience aud expense to m11ny
f,odges which had n.lready made arrangements for such joint occupancy, yet
none will doubt that the recommendation w11s correct, and we would suggest
that in our own jurisdiction joint stock associ11tions of th11t kind be here11ftcr
11lscontinued. We arc glad to see that he recommends the republication of the
1•nrlicr proceedings cif the Gr11.nd Loilge of Ohio, long since out of print, and that
upon the report of 11 committee to who::n the ~ubj0ct w11s reforred. that body has
11dopted the suggestion, nnd ordered it to be c11rried into effect. 'fhis is certainly
11 matter which commends itself to the attention of all the older Grantl Lodges,
for could complete reprints of nil the tranS11ctions of the several Grand LodgeH
of the United States he completed and Interchanged with each other, what a
v11luable fund of Masonic information, history, anrl precedent, might be added to
the library of e~ch. The writer of this report takes Mome c1edlt to himself for
h11ving practiced what he preaches, by rescuing from n. Yerv early oblivion the
transactions of' the first y ears of 0111· own existence ; and he 'hopes yet to see the
proceedings of our elders grace the shelves of our infant libr11.ry to a far greater
oxtent than his eft'o1·ts have thus far 11v11iled. Grand llfoster Donus recommends
G change in the time of meeting of the Grand Lodge so that it m11y t11ke place
~oon after the elections in the subordinate Lodges1 that thus the entire work of
the year may be reported by the officers in charge during thnt period - a very
wise and proper suggestion, as we think, 1111d one which in another shape will be
presented to the Grand Lodge of Californi11 at this Communic1ition. He recominonds a proper celebration of the semi.centenniRl anniversary of the estn.bliahmcnt of the Grand Lodge, which will occur in J11nu11ry, 1858, 11nd we note that.
cit a later period it was ordered that a committee be appointed to t11kc the neoc,snry steps to carry out the recommendation.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is from the pen of the M:. W.'. L. Y.
DrBRcE, a Past Grand ~foster of Ohio, 11nd Is n yery ,In terestlug compilation of
nnd commentary upon many of the questions which have lJeen mooted among the
Oraod Lodges of the Union during the past ft:w ye11rs. He gives 11 well·m('riterl
robuke to the Committee ou Foreign Correspondence in Delaware, for 1856, for
tbolr absurd tirade agninst such Committees generally, which we have ah'cndy
presented in its proper place, 11nd of which we will only further ~ay that {t
nvlnced more impertrnent smartness than eound discretion or Masonic feeling.
He comments upon tbe new re~lo.tions of Kentucky and ArkanS1.e, which direct

r

70

JOt1RNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

[May,

the Lodges to receive and act upon applications for initiation in the first degree,
and upon those for pa91ling in the Recond, &c., and after expressing the opinion
that Master Masons are probably better qualified then Entered Apprentices to
conduct the bu8iness of a Lodge, he presents a reductio-ad absurdum in the following language : "The greatest objection mad~ to, doing business only in the Maste,r's degree, is that
an Entered Apprentice would, 1f guilty of an offence, have to be ~rte<l by those of o.
degree hi@.'her than himself. This is a new phase of Young America, Every person
must•be trie,d by those ~f .as /oUJ ~ g~ade as himse_Jf. Thus minors <;>ught to claim !he
right of vot1n~ and of s1tttng on JUrtes, as otherwise they may be tried hy laws which
they had no h~nd in making, and by juries higher in legal rights than themselves."

Bro. BIERCE commends the resolution at present existing on the statute-hook
of California relative to the powers of Grand Masters, and approves of our" New
Regulation," providing in cert~in cases for the. trial of those officers: In nnother
case while spooking of our action, by an o'·ers1ght he has been led !Ilto an error.
He disapproves of our doctrine "that the right, so called, to visit masonic11lly, is
not an absolute n:qht," &c., and .adds that" the Gran~ Lodge (of Cal!fornia ?). subsequently laid down the' anc1e.nt landmarks,' aI_J.d m them contr!ld1cted t?~1r resolution. In their list of• auc1ent landmarks' 1s 'No. 8. The rtght to vts1t nmsot~ically is an absolute right, but may be forfeited or limited by parti~ular rep;uln.tions.'" It is difficult to imagine how our learned brother of Ohio should
have misconceived so evident a quotation from New York, it being not only indicated as such by the usual marks, but by being printed in smaller type thnn the
body of the i·eport in which it is found. Dy ngaiu referring to the proceedings
of thin Gru.nd Lodge in 1855, Bro. BIEam: will find not only that we have not
tboup;ht it necessary to publish an~ " ancient landmarks" for ourselves, but that
of alf those then quoted from the Constitutio? of New York, thatp.articul11r oue,
with one other was commented upon and objected to by the con:m1ttee who quoted It. The Ohio committee,. like ourselves, is not fovornbly imp~essed with !be
prevalent mnnia for "Masomc Colleges,'' and ventures the very JUBt suggestion
that, iu these days, when the common school system of the vn_rious ~tates places
education within the reach of all, a better field for Masomc charity could be
found in providing an Asylum for tl1e widows and orphans of indige~t Masons.
There is much more in this report which we would be glad to notice, hut we
must conclude with a record of the assent of the Ohio committee to the le~ality
of the new Grand Lodge of Canada.
. .
.
. , .
A proposition was adopted that the State be d1v1dcd mto six districts, am! thnt
n District Deputy be appointed for each, to hold office for three year~, so armnged
that each vear two shall retire and be replaced by others. These are to meet
with the Gru.nd Master and adopt t\ form of work, n.nd thereafter en.ch is to teach
it in his particular district, and all are to rehearse it annually before the Grand
Lodge. This looks like a i;ood plan, if the officers appointed will do the cluties
assigned them. A long and affectionate obituary notice of Bro. J AMl!:B D. CAI.DWELi late Grand Secretary of Ohio, is presented. The financial reports exhibit
disb~~sements to the amount of $6642 during the year, and a balance ol' $72!1;) in
the Grand Trea.~urer's ho.ads. This Grnod Lodge now numbers among its subordinates two hundred and forty-one Lodges existing under Charter, natl thirteen
under Dispensation. The Communication continued four days- the M.·. lV.·.
BENJAllllN F. SMITH hnving been elected Grand MMter, and the R.·. w.·. JOHN D.
CALDWELJ,, Grand SecreLary.
OREGON,
The Grand Lodp;e of this Territorv commenced its Annual Communicntion for
the year 1856 at the town of Portland, on the 9th day of June -the M:. W.·.J.
C. AJKSWORTI;, Grand Master, presiding, 11ncl the R:. W.·. BENJ. STARK being
Gmnd Secretary.
The Grand Master, in his Address. offers a fraternal tribute to the memory of
several members of the Order who had fallen during the rec·ent Indian war. He·
aonounceR th!" issue of a Dispensation to form n. new Lodge at Portland, for reasons which he considered sufficient, notwithstanding the fact that the chartered
Lodp;c at that place had not given the recommend11tion required by the Constitution ; aud the Grand Lodge approved his action, as the new Lodge was char•

6857.]

GRAND tODGE or CALifoRNlA.

71

&nrcd at this Communication. He is of the opinion, and In this we heartily coin11ldc with him, that after n. candidate has biien regularly elected and has taken
&he first degree, the peremptory and unexplained objection of a single member
aught not to be considered sufficient to stop his advancement. Ile is then a Mason,
llnd is entitled to certain rights aft such ; and among them we believe is tho.I. of
llaving such objection Investigated, that it may be known whether Masonic or·
hnproper reasons have been the cause of it, A portion of Grand Master ArnsWOllTn's sug~estion in this connection, however, we beg leave to exprci:s our
tliRsent to. 'I he proposition that " if on examination he is found gull ty of an offence, or if he has deceived the Lodge, and proves to be other than he was rcprcHented,'' the Master should " expel him on his own motion," too much resemble~ an actual occurrence in that jurisdiction some two years ago, to be included
In our general assent to his opinions on the subject of initiates. We took occa~lou, in our report of 1855, modestly to notice the suspension of a Mason by tht
Maater of a Lodge, " on his own motion," as something new to us in Masonic j"rlsprudence ; n.nd as we perceive that the notice has given some umbrage to our
neighbors in Oregon, as appears by their Report on Foreign Correspondence in
1856, WC propose, at the proper place, in the language of' a Western friend or
ours, to" make a few brief and impertinent remarks'' thereupon. D1·0.A1NBWORTH
approves of the system of Grand Lodge representation, as lately recommended
l>y New York, and we perceive that an exchange of representatives has already
l1cen agreed upon with that body, the R:. lV:.DEKJ. STARK, now Deputy Grand
MaF.ter of Oregon, being named t-hcre to represent New York. He again urges
upon the Grand Lodge the rnbject of a uniformity of work, recommends the adoption ot a uniform code of Dy·Laws for the Lodges, and strongly advocates the
necessity of continued exertions to accumulate n. fund for educational purposes.
The Deputy Grnud Master reported the issue of another Dispensation. ReJ>orts wero received from the Gr11.nd Inspectors of the Southern and Central Districts. A committee to whom a portion of the Grand Master's Address relative
to border jurisdiction was referred, reported that legislation upon the subject
wn~ unnecessary, approved the past action of th~ Grand Mnster, and recommended that it be left hereafter to his dil!Cretion. A resolution wa$ adopted,
''To obtain further light: - that this M:. lV:.Grand Lodge inRtruct the present
J(:. ll'.·.Grand Secretary (who is about to visit the Enet) to obtain nil Light and
Masonic knowledge practicable from the older Grand Lodges with whom he may
confer in the St11tes, etc." A jewel was voted to Bro. JlEliJ. Sunx, the then
tlrand Secretary, who, in consequence of his proposed journey to thr1 East In
"enrch ot' more light, declined a re-election to that office ; and a committee wnH
appointed "to investigate the claims of the .M:. H':.B11:nnYMAN J1urnnws, Post
Omnd Master of' Orc~on, against the l<"raternlty in the jurisdiction of the Grnnd
Lodge of California.' It stl'ikes us that if' our brethren in Oregon will read the
proceedings of' the Urand Lodge of this Staten.tits last Communication, they
will find that Bro. Jii:N1''1NGs' claim has already been" investigated" by the only
body whose 11ction is likely to have any effect upon it.
The Report 011 Foreign Conespondence Is presented by Bros. DENJ, STARK and
JI. JEliNINUS. lt Is very brief, referring, with the exception 9f a matter m~ntlon­
td below, only to the formation of the new Grand Lodge In Canada, which they
cordially approve, and the recognition of which, as recommended by them, waH
adopted by the Gmnd Lodgu. After n. summary disposition of this subject, the
Committee do 118 the honor of n" first rate notice" 11H follows: "We recnr to the tran•oction• of our neighbor of California, for the purpose of calling
the attention of her highly accomplished C~oirman of the Committee on Foreign Corre·
1pondenc.e to the fact, that in the elegant essay on Meoonry in general, and resume of
Masonic transactions of other Grand Lodges in particular, emanating from that Committee, (Anglic,--our report of IBM) an inaccurate statement is made concerning our
Orand Lodge. No 81lch occurrence a• the one alluded lo ha• taken place within our j11.1istliction, and consequently ha• not hcen approved by oui· Grand Lod1;_e. We canuot make
lbi• plainer than it will appear to our l1<11rned friends, if they will carefully read the
nuthorize<.1 publication of our proceedings."

Now, without stopping ta express the Immense profundity of onr obligations
&o our too complimentary Brother of Oregon for the very tlattering (?) expres1lons contained in the foregoing, we shall wa~te some time in the endeavor to

72

foURNAt

OF PROCEEDiN'ds.

[.May,

6851.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

78

convince him that we do "carefully read the authorized publications," (those
sent us by himself,) and, by so doing, exhibit to him how unsafe it is to make assertions like those above quoted, in the very teeth of the facts as published under his own supervision. In our report of 1855, while presenting an abstract of
the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, the following paragraph occurs:-

principles of our Order: we would recommend all:the charity that could be eztended
11nder the circumstances.
"
"
"
·.,
"
"
"
"
"All of which is respectfully submitted.
"J. C. AINSWORTH,~
A. W. 1''ERGUSON, Commitlu.''
B. JENNINGS,

"We remark one occurrence among the proceedings whic.h, with our limited knowledge
of the extent of Masonic powers and prerogatiYe~, seemed somewhat singular-the suspt11Sion of a Mason, for refusal to obey a summons, by the order of the Masttr of the
Lodge. And this act was approved by the Grand Lodge, although the offending Brother
was restored by its order. We had heretofore supposed that such power of punishment
resided in the Lodll"e alone, and was then properly exercised only after charges were
preferred and a fair trial offered.''

Although it was unnecessary to copy a great part of the foregoing, as a charge
or untruth, in eftcct, lies against us, we have thought it proper to give every word
of the report, so far as it relates to the case at ill8ue, without presuming to correct
11lght errors in construction or bad luck at punctuation ; and in order to ehow
how it was acted upon by the Grand Lodge, we copy the following also from the
proceedings of that session: -

It will be seen that the certainly not very offensive form of dissent therein
expressed was directed solely to the question of the right of a Master of a Lodge,
by his own will, and without action of his J,odge, to :mspend a Mason from all the
rights and privileges of the Order. It was our impresston at the time, that the
a.ct was in consequence of the refusnl of the party thus dealt with to obey a sum
mons, nnd we so recorded it. But thnt was a mere incident. It would 'not have
mattered to us whether that was the real cause, or whether he had stood on his
head in open Lodge, or whether, as it is now averred was the fact, he treated the
authority of the Master with contumely, so fnr as this mode of punishment was
concerned. Our simple opinion was that the Alaster had no right to assume s1icli
powers for any cause. That he might have caused the offending melllber to be led
out of the room, that he had the power to exclude him thereafter from the meetings
of the Lodge, (his proper exercise of such power being alwa,Ys subject to the ecru tiny
of a higher authority) we presume no one will doubt ; but mall our reading of the
works of many Masonic writers, and with a tolerable knowledge of the proceedings of those Grand LodgeR of the world with which this Grand Lodge is now in
correspondence, we do not remember that we ever heard before of a Ma~ter exercising the plenary power of suspension or expulsion. Now this was the "occurrence" which we noted, and the language in which it was mentioned could have
given offence only to those whose cerebral cuticle was exceedingly thin indeed.
Yet the Oregon Committee now declare that " no such occurrence as the one
alluded to has taken place within our jurisdiction," an<l this unqualified and
wholesale denial would naturally enough lead to the conclusion that no Ru~pen
sion in such a manner had therein been ordered. In answer to this we will only
quote, verbatim, literatim et punctuatim, from a page of the proceedings of that
Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication in June, 1854: --

."In r«'.lation to the suspension of Bro. C. Hutchins, the following resolutions were sub·
m1tled, VIZ. : " Resofred, That the Grand Lodge JuUy awtain the course pursued by the W. M. of
•Villamette Lodge, No. 2, in the case of Bro. C. Hutchins, and entirely approve ".[IM
Jv.dgrri~nt rendertd btj tht W. M. in that ca1e."
·
"Further Re1olved, That for these and the further reasons set forth in the report of the
Commillee on Grievance, it is hereby ordered that the sentence againal aaid Bro. Hutch•
1111 be perpetual.''

"Your Committee of Grievance, to whom was referred the case of suspension ofChns._
Hutchins, by the Wor11zipfid Master of Willamette Lodge, No. 2.; haYe examined all ihe
papers and records in the case- anJ find that in addition to the evidence of insubordination as appears by the records, that the acr.uscd stated previous to the time the diffi··
culty occurred-that now claims the allenlion of your commillee: that he was the
Semor Deacon of Willamette Lod;;e. Which he subsequently denied and refused to answer a summons under the seal of bis Lodq,e, because es he alleged that the summons
did not refer lo him, as it wa• directed to Che•. Hutchins, Senior Deacon of Willa"'!'lte
Lodge, No. 2. It bas also come lo the knowledge of your committee, that while under
suspension by W. M. of Willamette Lodgt, No. 2"- that accused bas visited a Lodge or
Lodges in California, thereby sbowiug bis utter disregard for the proceedings had against
him m his own Lodge. ( 7) While your r.ommillee deepl>; regret that they are called
upon lo pronounce against one, who, previous lo this net of insubordination, sustained au
uncxr.eptionable Masonic character; yet believing as we do, that the right of the W orsbipful Master to call any member to fill any slal10n or place in the Loage, is not at all
to be queslioued, and that the accused as appears by the evidence, did wilfully refuse to
obey the order of the W. M.; and notwithstanding every effort was made by officers of
th o Grnnd Lodge nnd others- as well as the W. M. himself, to effect a treaty, yet he
ullerly relilsed the advice of his brethren and rejected all propositions for Accommodation . We therefore feel it our duty in view of all tl1is, to recommend that the Grand
Lodge sustain the action of the W. M. of Willamette Lod;re, No. 2, in mspending by hi•
own authority, for au offence commilled against his authority; and which, your committee
are of the opinion should be punished by "the Master without reference to the Lodgt ; and
while your committee are of the opinion that Chas. Hutchins has acted in violation of the

These were "laid upon the table for the present," after some time spent in their
discussion; but at the evening session of' the same day, the following record
uppears:" The resolutions reported by thfl Committee of Grievance now lying upon the table,
were taken up, aud the first resolution adopted by ihe Grand Lodge.
"Ou motion, the second resolution was amended, and the amendment, as follows, WH
adopted by the Grand Lodge, Yiz. : "Resolved, That tl1is Grand Lodge recommend that the M.·. W .., Grand Master or his
Deputy, cause the said HUTCHINS lo appear at some Stated Communication of Willamette Lodge, and that he be reprimanded by the M.-. W,., Grand Master or his Deputy,
tmd re!n1Wtd to tlit rig/its and priviltgei of Maaonry.''

::>o much for the careless asaertion that " no RUch occurrence" had taken place,
1md the cquallr, heedless one that it " consequently has not been approved by our
Grand Lodge I ' Our brief notice in 1855 embodied thesa Eimple propo~itions­
that 11 Mason had been auspmded by the order qf the Master, only -that this act bad
been approoed lnj the Grand Lod17e-and that notwithstanding this approval, the
offender h11d been restored to his Masonic privili!ges by its order; and it seems to
us upon reviewing these transactions, that we most assuredly did " carefully
rl'~d " them at the time we wrote, and that unless the pamphlet sent us by Dro.
HTAnK himself be not an "authorized publication of our (their) proceedings," he
has not, in the report now beforl! us, been very i;crupulously regartlful of thnt tenet
of our profession which is said to be u. "Diviue attribute, and the foundation of
every virtue." . If he had wished to take exception to the cauu we gave for the
exercise of the authority assumed by the Master of Willamdte Lodge, how easy
It would have been to su.y so; and in such case we would have acknowledged, a~
we now do, without hurting us much, that upon another reading of that which we
have just quoted, it does nppear thnt that cause wns not the only one -indeed
was not the principal one which induced the act. Granting,,if_it eo be wished,
that it was not any one of the causes at all, (though that admtss1on would hardly
be compatible with the early portion of the report of the Grievance Committee,)
what m11tters it? It is as palpable as the sun at noon-day, not only from the simple words themselves, but from the mu.nner in which they were italicised- " the
1uspension of a Mason, for refusal to obey a summons, by the wder of the Maatcr of
the Lodge·" -that our notice in 18J5 was intended to be n denial of any such authority i~ the Master at all, and not an inquiry into or diF.cussion of the particulnr reason which induced its assertion ; and were it possible to suppose a dullness
of comprehension that could not perceive i~ from that portion of. the text, such
1uppos1titious obtuseness must have been enlightened by the concludmgparag1•aph.
The fact is thllt it was perfectly well known, if not through the evident meaning
of the language of our report itself, through tho unmistakeable words of the an·

10

jotrRN.At or PiloCEEDt:Nos.
swer to a letter which we received from the chairman of the Oregon committee,
foreshadowing a dread onslaught upon us from that source, if we did not make
eome satisfactory amende. We hope the one now presented will prove so; but
when the flat denial of an absolute fact-nay, series of facts- shall be with·
drawn, and it shall be_proven to us that the Master of a ·Lodge may "by his own
authority" suspend a Mason, we will endeavor to present a better one. It only
remains to be added that the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspon·
deuce in Oregon, was the Master of Willamette Lodge at the time of the "occnr·
renee." " Hine illae lachrrmm I"
We should not he maktng a sufficient response to the courteous attentions of
our beloved Brother of Oregon, were we to leave him thus; and it is no part of
our intention to permit the unpalatable dose of an inferential charge of untruth
to be administered to us, albeit it may be mixed with some sweet condiments
composed of" accomplished chairman" and " elegant essay," without well paying the cost of the prescription. " Such instances as that to which our attention
is now beinit addressed," says he, still in allusion to our inoffensive remark in
'55, "are not calculated to weaken the force of our conviction of the soundness ot
the views we entertain, touching the le¥itimate duty of a Committee on Foreign
Correspondence." Now, for aught we have ever seen from our dear Brother
which could lead us to any particular opinion upon the subject of his " views,"
thel may be very "sound" indeed. He has been the Chairman of the Committee
on Foreign Correspondence since the formation of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
In 1852, his report-the first presented-consisted of an acknowledgement of the
receipt of the proceedings of Vermont and California, and a brief quotation from
the proceedings of the last named body-in all less than half a page. In 1853,
the proceedings of sixteen Grand Lodges are "cursorily glanced at" in five
pages, without the expression of a single opinion upon any subject. In 1854, his
report-a fraction over a single page-consisted of a resolution to recognize
Minnesota, ten lines to give us the startling information that there was "distraction" in New York; as many more to notice the Louisville Convention, and
some not particularly original remarks upon "the necessity of eternal vigilance at
the door of initiation." In 1855, the report-then swollen to two pages aQlil a halfwas composed of the announcement that it was deemed a duty not to express any
opinions, as a general rule .i. of a half dozen lines to say that any further notice
of the" unhappy feud" in .New York was unnecessary; of a copy of the Articles
of Confederation proposed at Washington; and of a resolution disapproving
them. In 1856, the report before us, half a page suffices to prove most satisfac·
torily that "not to extend the right hand of fellowship and respond promptly to
the fraternal greetings of this new American Grand Lodge, (that of Cannda)
would be to strike a blow at the legitimacy of every Grand Lodge formed within
the American Union since the organization of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, in
the first year of the present century." Beyond this it ls said that among the
proceedings of all the Grand Lodges of the Union, with a complimentary (?)
exception in favor of ourselves, there is "nothing requiring especial attention
-from the committee;" and about half a pnge more is given then to our benefit,
upon the subject already presented.
Now while we do not pretend to find fault with the brevity of these reports,that, as well as the matter, or lack of matter, they contain being of no especial
concern to us--we have presented this synopsis of them for the purpose of
showing that these constitute the recorded data by means of which we are to be
instructed in the "legitimate duty of a Committee on Foreign Correspondence."
Doke far niente, say the Italians. Our Brother of Oregon has improved upon the
saying by asserting it to be a duty, as well as pleasure to do nothing. He doee
not believe it to be orthodox to question the august "decisions of Grand Ml\Sters,"
or to "intimate doubts of the wisdom, propriety and regularity" of the action of
Grand Lodges "upon questions carefolly considered and solemnly adjudged."
Did it ever occur to him, (and in asking this question we do not mean to refer or
give offence to the Grand Lodge of Oregon) that the aolemnity with which an
absurdity might be decreed, would give no particular assurance that it was uny
the JeEs absurd ? or that there may po88ibly be some Grand Masters not so well
versed in Masonic law and usage, as others, 1<!88 elevated in nominal Masonio
rank, who have devoted years to reading and writing upon those suqjecte? for

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OF OA~IFORNIA.

75

ourselves, we humblyacknowledge ourownMasonicyouth and inexperience butwe
do not ,deem it any great exaggeration to say, that among the Grand M~ters of
tho Umted States there are always at least a dozen whose aggregate opinion upon
queetions of Masonic jurisprudence we would not value half so much as the single
UIWM of MACKEY, MOORE, KING, GILMAN, or others we could name who in their
u1p11cities as the writers of Reports on Foreign Correspondence, h~ve n~t unfre·
IJUently been guilty of the great heresy anathematised by our good Brother of
Oregon. That the positive 11nd unexplained denial of a plain and recorded truth,
lllay not be "the course best calculated to promote harmony &c. " we have no
h~Mltat~on in admitting ; as it will probably be apparent that' such a method of
rul'u.tat10n does not at all harmonize with our opinions in regard to the proper
1m111ncr of conducting an argument upon Masonic or other subjects: and we now
tako leave of the matter, with the frank expression of our annoyance that a
•t11tument, conveying upon its face a charge of untruth against us should have
compelled us to waste some hours of valuable time in its treatment.'
An educational fund of $1201 has already been accumulated in Oregon. The
nnancial reports show that $483 had been received during the year and that
11116, including $500 loaned, had been disburRed, leaving a ~mall dettcit of $5.
Tlll're 11re now twelve chartered Lodges in the jurisdict~n. The Communication
la11tcd four dayR, during which the M.·. W.·. A. M. BELT Wall elected Grand Master
and the R:. W:. Wrr.r.u.M S. CALDWELL, Grand Secretary.
'

RHODE ISLAND.
Th.e proceedings of this Grand Lodge, now before us, embrace the Quarterly
Mootmgs of August and November, and the Semi-annual Meeting December
twenty-seventh, 1855 ; the Quarterly Meetings of February and May; 1856 ; and
lhu Annual Communication on the twenty-fourth day of June, of that year - the
M.·. W.·. Ouv1m JOHNSON, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. WILLIAM C.
ll41tKER being Grand Secretary.
At the meeting in May the Grand Master presented his Address.- He announllt'M the death of the 1'1.·. W.·. ALVIN JENKS, a l'ast Grand Master of Rhode Island •
•tates that he had installed the officers of every Lodge In the State except three ?
11xpresses the opinion that officers reelected should be reinstalled ; disapprove~
lhu practice of double membership ; and closes with an exhortation to the.breth1·11n so to conduct themselves.in all the walks of life, as to maintain the true dig·
nlty of our profession. At this meeting the election for officers was held, resulting in the choice of those who served the year before. A singular custom seems
to prevail of going into "committee of the whole" on these occasions, and calling
llOme other th11n the Grand Master to preside.
A Iteport on Foreign Correspondence was presented by Bro. SULLIVAN BALI.OU
wbo seems to differ somewhat ti'om our bilious brethren of Delaware on the sut>'.
jeot of the usefulnesR of such papers.
"There. is .no more gratifyi11g evidenre," ~ays he, 11 of tho true ond lasting prosperity
Df the Inslltullon than tlie character of the \•ar1ous reports from the Committees of these,._
eral States. '!'hey aeem to vie with each other in the amount of learning that can be
hrought lo enlighten and adorn the history, condition, prospects, character, end prartice
11f tlrn tenets of the Order; and by their suggestions, comment& nnd criticism& upon the
IOlion of the Grand Lodges abroad, they produce a constancy of aentim<'nt, strengthen
lhll boi:ids of our Universal Broth~rh?od, and dispel m'!ch of the dark mists of other ages
1h1<1 still hover around our Inst1tut1011, and conceal its lol\y beauty and sublime arch·
llerture.''

llro. B.iLr.ou discusses at ~omc length the project of a Confederation, which be
that the present system of exchanging with each
11th1!r their t'eFpective opiniouH and proceedjngs, will do more towards ettecting
ooncordance of' u1c1age and unity of 11ction among the many Grand Lodges of the
\Tnlon, than any organization of' that kind could possibly produce. He presents the
Virginia. system for ensuring the perpetuity of a uniform and correct mode of
work, in terms of commendation j gives several pages to the interesting decisions
of' Grand Master llDBBARD, of Onio i. and offers much besides which lack of time
prvvents us from taking note of. '\v e regret that the proceedings of California
wurc not received by our brethren of Rhode Island, as they were most assuredly
1t1>1•R not approve ; and think~

'-'lllt..

76

JOURNAL or PROCEED1NGS.

[May,

The Annual Meeting, on the day of St. John the Baptist, was devoted to the
election aud installation of omcers, and the celebration of the festival. There was
a service In church, an AddreBS, a dinner consisting of "almost every article the
market afford~,'' music, singing, and a good time generally. The Finance Report
exhibits a receipt of $350 during tlie year, an expenditure of $501, and a balance
due the Grand Treasurer of about $75, which he was authorized to borrow.
Fourteen chartered Lodges now exist in the State, being one more than we chronicled in our last report.

SOUTH CAROLINA.
It is our misfortune ever to receive the proceedings of this Grand Lodge too
late to notice them until an extra year has passed by. Those now before us are
for 1855, comprising one Special and four Quarterly Meetings, and the Annual
Communication and Feast on the twenty-seventh day of December - the M.'. W.·.
ALFRED PmcE, Grand Master, presiding at each Communication, and the W.•.
ALBERT G. MACKEY, being Grand Secretary.
At the January meeting a resolution was adopted that the proceedings at the
late celebration of the Centennial Anniversary of the Grand Lodge of South Carolina be heremetically enclosed in a brass box, bearing an inscription that it was
not to be opened for one hundred years (from 1854); which box was to be placed
in a bank, or other secure place, and the proceedings of each year hereafter are to
allude to it and its place of deposit, that it may not during that long period be
forgotten. Thus the brethren of the Palmetto State will be enabled in after times
t:> see how their progenitors did things "a hundred years ago."
At the Quarterly Communication in December, Bro. A.G. MACKEY presented
his customary Report on Foreign Correspondence. He adheres to the doctrine
that neither the Master or Wardens of a Lodge can resign, inasmuch as at their
installation they "have solemnly promised to perform the duties of their respective offices for the time for which they have been elected." Suppose imperative
necessity required their removal from the scene of their labors to another part of
the world. Mnst their private interests be sacrificed for the purpose of literally
fulfilling that promise? Is not the general instruction that Masonic duties are
not to interfere with those which we owe to ourselves, our families, or our country,
an inferential qualification of such n. pledge? Bro. MACKEY urges the adoption of
a uniform code of By-Laws for the government of Lodges under dispensation,
and in this, as well as in his opinion that any member of a Lodge in good standing, who has paid up his dues, is entitled to withdraw, we aro happy to say that
the Grand Lodge of California agrees with him. He pays a well-<leserved compliment to Louisiana Relief Lodge, No. 1; and we hope in another year, that a similar organization within our own limits will have earned from him an equally favorable notice. A few very appropriate remarks are given to matters in New
York. He says, very correctly, that "the effect of the dissensions in that State
have been unintentionally ~xaggerated by the writers of, reports for some years
past,'' and that the results of these.dissensions are felt much more abroad than at
home. " The schismatic bodies,'' says he, " are rapidly dwindling in numbers and
respectability, while the strength and influence of the legal Grand Lodge are as
great among all true Masons there as in any other jurisdiction." And he is of
the opinion that the pseudo Masonii: bodies of the city owe their present puny
existence rather to the "notices and comments, denunciation and abuse which
they have received from other jurisdictions, than to any principle of vitality which
is inherent in themselves." He alludes to the new Canadian organization, with
the expression of the opinion that "it is not to be doubted that the Grand Lodges
of the United States will, with one accord, extend the right hand of fellowship
and recognition to this, their youngest sister." From a constructionist so strict,
and an expounder of the law so conservative, we are somewhat surprised to hear
this'; and we are inclined to the opinion that at the time he wrote he could hardly
have received full information on the subject.
The Annual Communication and Grand Feast occurred on the anniversary of
St. John the Evangelist. The financial reports show a revenue for the year of
$5254, an expenditure of $11104, and a balance on hand of $254. Sixty chartered
Lodges and ene under Dispensation now exist in South Carolina.. The Grand
M1.11ter and GTand t!.eeretary were both reelected.

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNI.A.

77

TENNESSEE.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee for the year
11!66, was commenced at the City of Nashville on the sixth day of October-the
!I.·. W.·. JOHNS. DASHIELL, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. C. A. FULLER
being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is devoted principally to a notice of the
c1'6trnction of the Masonic Hall in Nash ville, by fire, and a sketch of the life of
tho M.·. w. .. THOMAS CLAIBORNE, the first Grand Master of Tennessee, lately
droeased.
The Report on Correspondence is by Bro. WILKINS TANNEHILL, Past Grand
M11ster of that State, and is a very good abstract of the proceedings of the various
Orand Lodges. The report of our committee last year on the subject of the new
<lrand Lodge of Canada is quoted from, and the opinions of the Tennessee comh!lttce in regard to that question are promised in another place ; but it appears
lo have been forgotten, much to our regret, as we would have been glad to have
lll'11rd from a Mason so distinguished as Bro. TANNEHILL upon that important
n111tter. We perceive that the Grand Lodge appropriated three hundred dollars
for his services in preparing the report.
'l'he Financial Report shows a revenue of $3354, an expenditure of $2784, and
"balance in the Treasury of $7967. One hundred and eighty-eight Lodges arc
now existing upon the registry. The Grand Lodge was four days in sellBion,
cl11ring which the Al:. W.·. THOMAS McCuu,ocH was elected Grand Master, and the
N.·. w,., CrrARLES A. FULLER was reelected Grand Secretary.

TEXAS.
Our last intelligence from this Grand Lodge is to the twenty-first day of Jan1111ry, 1856, when its Annual Communication was commenced at the City of
Cfolveston-the Al:. w.., E. B. NICHOLS, Grand ]\faster, presiding, and the R:. W:.
A. S. RUTHVEN being Grand Secretary.
The Gmnd Master, in his Address, laments the decease of the M:. W.·. JOHN A.
OllEER, a Past Grand Master, and the R:. lV.'. JosEPH C. HAmusoN, a Past Deputy
Clrnnd Master of that State; and announces the issue, by himself, of seven Dispunsations to form new Lodges. Besides these there were three issued by the
JJ1•pnty Grand Master, and some two or three dozen, more or less, by the several
lllhtrict Deputies. Of course we do not wiEh to intrude upon the domestic conOfll'lls of our brethren of Texas, but it seems to us that the authorizing eighteen
pu1·eons within one jurisdiction to create new Lodges is permitting that prerogative to "lay 'round loose" to a very liberal extent.
'l'he Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Bro. ANDREW N1m,r., and we
rogrct that time does not permit us to note the many interesting matters it con•alns. He is pleased to compliment the manner in whicil the proceedings of this
Urnnd Lodge were prepared in 1855, and Ire commends its action in sundry
lnRtances in that year; and we take the occasion to eXpress our thanks to him for
hi" few flattering words in behalf of our report at that time, albeit he has, natur•lly enough, attributed it to ano.ther.
We observe the report of a committee, adopted by the Grand Lodge, which,
11rtor reciting tile facts of a case where a candidate had been blackballed and
declared rejected by the Master, and where the Lodge hnd then been crtlled off,
lhd again called on the following day, when the ballot was reconsidered and the
IJlpllcant elected, declares that the Lodge in so doing acted in accordance with
•liu H]Jirit of one of the resolutions of the Grand Lodge, and that it could not be
oanHured, consequently, for the course pursued! Ought not that resolution to be
l'Cllllllnded then? 'l'he reconsideration of such a vote at a subsequent meeting is
r•rtalnly not in accordance with the general usage in the United States, and
wo believe that the Constitution of Texas itself prescribes a period of time within
which the application of a rejected candidate shall not be acted on again. A new
OonMtltution was presented and ordered printed for the consideration of the
Iiodgcs. Eleven of tile sixteen District Deputies presented reports. From the
Urand Treasurer's Report the receipts for the year appear to have been $5560,
'111 oi:penditures were $3787, and there remained in the Treasury $5151. One
~IUldrcd and !ixty-one chartered Lodge! and six under Dispensation now exist in

7S

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

TexM, as appears from the published list. The Grand Lodge was six days in
seBBion, during which the M.., W.·. F. B. SEXTON was elected Grand Master, and
the R:. W.·. A. s. RUTHVEN was reelected Grand Secretary.

VERMONT.
The Grand Lodge of this State begun its Annual Communication for the year
1856, at the city of Burlington, on the ninth day of January, - the M:, W.·. PmL·
IP C. 'l'ucs:ER, Grand MMter, presiding, and the R:. W.·. JOHN B. HoLI,ENDECK
beiug Grand Secretary.
A considerable portion of the Grand l\foster's Address is devoted to a beautiful
eulogy upon the Masonic career of a distinguished brother, lately deceased, ths
M:. W.·. NATHAN B. HASWELL, - who for more than seventeen years preceding
the advent of Bro. TucKEH in the Oriental Chair of Vermont, lmd occupied thtJ
Grand Master's seat in that Grand Lodge. The iBSuo of two Dispenslltlons to
form new Lodges is announced ; and the proposed plan of a Confodei·ation is presented, but in our necessa\-ily hurried examination of the proceedings, we do not
perceive that any action was had upon the supject. We believe, however, that
Vermont looks favorably upon the proposal. Sundry correspandence relative to
the so-called "Prince Hall Grand Lodge," a colored institution in Massachusetts,
ls presented, and it very unmistakably appears that the venerable nnd distinguished writer docs not consider negro Masonry legitimate in the United States.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by Bro. L. n. EsoLE!lUY.
A special committee on the subject of the new Grand Lodge of Canada, presented
a vory able report, concluding with a resolution to recognize that body, which
was adopted. The receipts for the year past were $351, and the expenses appear
to have been $227, leaving some $125 on band. Thirty-six chartered Lodges 11nd
one under Dispensation are now in existence, being one moro than we last year
mentioned. The seBSion continued two days, and the Grand l\laster i1nd Grand
Secretary were both reelected.

VIRGINIA.
The Grand Lodge of this State commenced its Annual Communication for the
year 1856, at the city of Richmond, on the eighth day of December, - the M:.
W.·. JAMES A. LEITCH, Grand Master, presiding, and the W>. JOHN Dov!!: being
Gund Secretary.
The Grand l\laster in his Address 1mnounces the iBSue of fourteen Dispen!!Btions
to form new Lodges during the year · and acknowledges the compliment paid to
the Grand Lodge of Virginia by the Universal Masonic Congress lately nssembled
at Paris, in the appointment of Bro. DovE W! one of' the Permanent C:ommi~sion
of five named by that body. He complains of the looseness of practice among
the Lodges, In the trivial and merely formal examination to which candidlltes for
advancement nre subjected; and we perceive that the Grand Lodge hl\s undertak(•n
to remedy it by requiring, as we do here, that the applicant shall exhibit thorough
proficiency in the first Rection of the degree which he has received, before being
admitted to another. He also mentions the fact that many of the LoclgeH haul
fallen into the error of initiating two, three, or more candidateR at once and by
t.be sumc ceremony ; the excuse therefor being 11 plainly erroneon~ conHtruction
of the Constitution of Virginia, (In that respect copied from Anderson,) which
declares that "No Lodge shall make more than five new brotherH at one time,
unleBB by Dispensation." This is l'euerally understood to mean what the nature
of our ceremonies makes it very evident it ought to mean, that not more than five
should be made at any one meeting of the Lodge ; and the Grand Lodge of Virginia bas now defined it thus, by a resolution forbidding the Lodges" from conferring any portion of either degree, except the explanatory lectures, upon more
than one candidate at a time." The Grancl Master notices the decca11e of the M:.
W:. J. W. SmTH, a Past Grand Master , and of the R·: W:. TnoMAR LAMBEitT, a
PW!t Grnnd Warden of that jurisdiction ; llnd he calls the attention of the Lodges
to the scanty contributions which have been made of late for the r elief of the
widow of Grand Master HUNTER.
A Report on Foreign Correspondonce was submitted by Bro. JAMES EvANS. He
alludes briefly to the subject of nou-atfiliation, which has engaged the attention,
more or leBB, of all the Grand Lodges in the country, and a resolution was
adopted., intlioting the usual deprlntlons upon tho!!e who neglected to join a

5857.j

GRAND LoDGE OF OALllrORNiA.

Lodge. The subject of the Congress held at Paris is mentioned and a full copy
o~ th~ proceedings .had thereat is appended to the report. The 'unwillingness of
V1rgi~la to recogmze the ne.w Grand Lodge of Canada, as recently established,
ls agam e?'pressed ; and various other matters are ably treated which we have
not now time to present.
R~solutions ~e:e adopt~d pro.hibitlng the conferring of "Side Degrees ;" direct1~g that petitions fo: 1~itlation should not thereafter be referred to committees, (why not T) forbiddmg the Lodges to act upon so-called "cases ·of
emergency" without a Dispensation from the Grand Master · and disapproving
of the practice of electing to "honorary membership," wbe'n such election exempted the brother thus honored from all or any of the requirements of Masonr
The receipts from all sources were $2407, tho disbursements $2808 and the bJ:
ance on hand, $377. Besides this, there is a funded property ~mounting to
$1~,260. One ~undred and forty-five chartered Lodges and one under Dlspensat10n are ~ow m existence, being four more than we last year named. The
Communication continued three dl\ys, during which the M.·. W.·. JOHNS. CALD·
WEU, was elected Grand Master, and the W.·. JouN DovE was reelected
Grand Secretary.

WISCONSIN.
The Annual Communication of the GrRnd Lodge of this S!ate for th11 year
1856, wa.s begun at the City of Milwaukie, on the J 0th day of Jun~,-the M:. W: .
HENnr ·~· B1Lt,1:n1, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. w. .. WILLI.I.)( R.
SMITH being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is ~rief. He notices the death of the R:. W:.
DwrnHl' F. L1.wro::''.a Paat D•puty C.rand Master of that jurisdiction, and recommends that prov111~n be made for his only child, left destitute ; and we re'"?ark that at a later period the <?rand Lodge set apart a sum to be paid 1rnnually
for ?er ll!le. He announces the 1.1111e of eig?t Dispensations to form new Lodges
during .the year; and expresse1 h11 approbation of the 1yste111 of District Deputies
lately mtroduced by that Hrand Lodge.
T~e Report on Foreign Correspondence was presented by Bro. H. L. p .uxim.
It briefly offers an abstract of the proceedings of twelve Grand Lod.,.es all wtiich
had bee~ received, ~ithout indulging in any comment on their acti~n.' The Can·
a?a s.ubJect was. rele~red to a committee, who are to report at the next Commu·
111cat1011. The hnanc1al r~ports, as nearly t\S we can ascertain both the Grand Sec·
ret~r~ and Treuurer ~mg app~rently disbursing officers, 'ehow an income of
$280;i, an~ an expenditure of $2 .. 47, and there remained on band 11n amount in
Io.ans, and m the hands of tho Grand ~ecretRry 11nd 'freasur6r, of $5607. Sixty·
nine ch~rtered Lodges and five under DispenHtion now exist in Wi1con1in,
~eing thirty·one more than were named in our report of 1855. The Communiration lasted four days, the M:. W:. HxNRY L. B.u1rn being elected Grand Master
11nd the ll:. W.·. WILLU.M R. SMITH being reelected Grand Secretary.
'

CANADA.
. I.t had been our intention, aft~r a careful examination of the proceedings of the
\ an~us Grand Lodges of .the ,lJmted States by whom opinions have been presented
relall ve to the late orgamzat1on of the body known as the " Grand Lodge of C •
ada,'.' and of.t~e 11rguments 11~d authoriti,es which have been adduced in favora~f
and m .opposition to the propriety and legality of its formation, to have offered an
~n~ly~1s.of the.rn all .at such length as would have enabled the brethren in this
JUr~sd1chon to JUdg~ tor themse.l ves o.f the reasons which induce the conclusion to
which we have 11mved upon this subject. But the little time which remains to
us tef~re the annu~l meeting of o~r. Grand Lodge, and the many other duties now
crowding upon us m ~the.r capacities connected with it, render that impossible;
and we can only at this time present the results of such action as has thus far
been !a.ken by the several ~r~nd Lodges of the Union, with our own suggestionepromunng·at a future d~y, 1f 1t s~all then geem expedient, to pre~nt .a more sat·
1sfactory report upon tb11 really important question.

joua:Nii. OF PROdl:EDINGS.

[May,

The Grand Lodges of Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Oregon, and Vermont, have
acknowledged the right of the new organization, and have recognized and wel·
corned it. In Maine, Ohio, and South Carolina, committees have reported in its favor•
but no action wa5 had by those Grand Lodges. The committ~e in Louisiana ap·
pears for it in one place, apd against it in anotl\er. The committee in Connecti·
cut reported in favor uf its acknowledgment, but the Grand Lodge refused the re·
cognition, as have also the Grand Lodges of Alabama, Missouri, New York~
Massachusetts, and Virginia. The opinion of Maryland is, beyond all doubt, ad·
verse, and Illinois, for the present, declines to take definite action in regarcl to it.
In Vermont alone, on the one hand, has any particular argument been published.
in support of this Masonic Declaration of Independence, and that is certainly a
very able one indeed. In New York and Massachusetts only, on the other hand,
have appeared any exhibition of reasons for opposition to it, and these to us seem
very weighty ones. In truth, comparatively inexperienced as we must confess
ourselves to be, we do not hesitate to say that when three such Grand Lodges as
those of Massachusetts, New York and Virginia unite in opinion upon a question
of such consequence, we should deem it presumptuous in ourselves to set up an
opposing one, even did we entertain it. But we do uot in this instance. Sincerely
as we sympathize with our Canadian brethren in thP.ir efforts for an. inde~enden~
organization, and gladly as we would welcome them to the fam1ly ot Grand
Lodges, could their entry be effected in a legitimate and Masonic manner, we
cannot feel it consonant with our duty to recommend their recognition now. The
able and judicious report presented to this Grand Lodge at the last Communica·
tion by the committee to whom the eloquent appeal of the "Grand Lodge of Can·
ada" was referred, met our hearty approbation ; and as we perceive by a commu·
nication received from the Provincial Grand Lodge of Canada West during the
past year, that the whole subject is now before the Grand Lodge of Er.gland, with
some prospect of a satisfactory termination, we shall suggest no other action than
that proposed last year by Bro. CuaT1s.

SCOTI.AN D.
We acknowledge the receipt of the Grand Lodge of Scotland's Reporter, datr.d
March 27, 1856. It gives only a list of the Grand Officers, Past Grand and. Pro·
vincial Grand Masters, and 0th.er members of the Grand Lodge. From this 'H
learn that the lfI:. W:. the Duke of Athole is still Grand Master, the R: . W:. J.
WurTE MELVILLE, Deputy Grand Master, the R.-. W.'. Lord Louoanonouo111
Substitute Grand Master, and the R:. W.-. WM. ALEX. LAURIE, Grand ~erretary.
As nearly as we can understand by the roll given, there are now two hundred and
forty-seven Lodges in existence upon the Registry of Scotland, of which about
forty are without the Kingdom, in various parts of the world,
PRUSSIA.
Several communications have reached us from the GR.I.ND NATJOY.!.L MOTHER
LODGE OF THE THREE GLOBES, at Berlin.
The first, dated the twenty-fourth of June, 1855, gives an account of the cele·
bration of St. John's Day, and of the 115th annivel'sary of the existence of .that
body, and presents the oration delivered on the occasion by Bro. DIEDE!~ The
second, dated September sixth, 1855, notices the opening of several new Lodges
. -the installation of others-the fiftieth anniversary 'o f the election of Bro. A!A·
nor in the Grand Lodge, and a vote of thanks for his long and faithful service,
- and the singular fact that Bro. EGGERS had initiated his seventh son in o~e
of the Lodges, himself and six other sons acting as the officers of the Lodge I It 1s
also stated that a communication had been received from the Grand Lodge in
Germany, announcing that new attaeks had been made upon the Order by the
Catholic clergy in Silesia ; and it is noted that the Grand Lodge of Sax~ny had
refused to acknowledge a so-called Masonic body in Amsterdam, be.armp;· the
name of" Post nubile luz," until the Grand Lodge of the Netherlands should re·
cognize it. The third communication, dated November second, 1855, gives
ihe pl'oteetlings of a "Mourning Lo'dge'' held that day, when the namel! of all

867.J

GRAND LODGE Ol' OALil'ORNIA..

81

tho brethren who had died during the year were presented, and a eulo~y was
Dronounced by the Grand Orator, llro. SCHULLER. The last, dated the sixth of
P•oumlicr, 1855, ~peaks of the celebration of the twenty-fifth election of Bro.
lui1,u1Tow as ~aster of Ferdinand Lodge, at Magdcburg, and presents 11 letter
uongratulat1on upon the event, sent him by the Prince of Prussia. It also
dovoteH some space to the action of the Grand Lodge of the Netherlands and of
&hu Grand Lodges of Darmstadt and of Frankfort, and other Germnn' Grand
loOllges, relative to certain proceedings of the Grand Orient of Belgium.
H w~ ll lie recollected thnt we last year noticed that this body hRd rescinded
11110 of its rul es, which forbade the discussion of political or religious subjects in
11111 Lodges under its control, thus declaring that such questions ll'ere proper sub·
lvct~ for introduction iuto those bodies. This, naturally enough, Is looked upon
n~ 1111 infraction of the universal Masonic law, and the Grand Lodges aliove
llRtnl'll have forbidden all intercourse with Belgium, until the obnoxious action
1111111! Lie reconsidered, as we had prevlou~ly noted that the Nntlonnl Mother
1,odgc :ind the Grund Lodge of Saxony bad done, The M:. W.-. Bro. ME8HER•
11111.l!ID'r is Graud Master, and the R:. W.·. Bro. MEnTEN is Grand Secreta.ry.

or

THE UNIVERSAL MASONIC CONGRESS.

We last year noticed the fact thnt an assemblage bearing the above name had
btt•n invited to convene in Paris during the time of the Great Exhibition In that
olty ; and we then preAented a copy of the decree of Prince LUCIEN MURAT, Grand
MaMter of the Masonic Order In :France, nnnouncing the convocation of that body
on the first day of June, 1855. Its proceedings have since been received a11d al·
though the re:ruUa arrived at could lie set forth in a single page,- as the transactions in themselves nre somewhat interesting, and as they will probnbly prove
111 to our readers in this jurisdiction, not so much for their intrinsic import·
a11110 as because they serve to show the way our brethren of the Eastern Hernia·
pbur11 conduct Masonic business, - we have concluded to present them entire,
•~ " sort of appendix to our report.
The publications show that there were present the following : 1111 Royal Highness, the PRINCE LUCIEN MuR.\T, Grand Master of the Masonic
Orclcr in :France ;
lh:ur.r.ANT and RA.ZY, Assistant Grand Masters of the Masonic Order in !<'ranee·
Dot:DEE, BRAH LAFITE, BUGNOT, DARRAGON, DoUMET, FAULTRIER, Gotn' m:!l MAR!
hlC~, I!oUTELET, JANrN, JOBERT, ain<l, LAIL!,ER, L11:zl:RET, MoNGENOT, MORAND,
Mo11ToN, RExEs, DE SAUI,EY, TA.NQUEREL, and WENTZ, members of the Council of
•hn Grand Master of France ;
FllANcrs McCowA.N, Delegate from the Lodge of Edinburg, (Man/• Chapel) No.
I, Mcotland ;
G. PAnKER CUMllCINGS, Delegate from the Grand Lodge of the District of CoIUDlhla, U. S. A. ;
'l'bc EARL OF DoNOt'GHM:ORE, nnd THOMAS J, QUINTON, Delegates from the Gro.nd
l,odge of Ireland ;
1"AnNELL, Delegate from the Provincial Grand Lodge of Munster, Ireland ;
lltn11ERT Lr.oYo, DONALD NICHOLL, and Sm HART .MuGGERIDGE, Delego.tes
ft'flm the Grand Lodge of England ;
l>rswmmE B. ~~ILr.IPs, Delegnte from the Grand Lodge of Virginia, U. S. A. ;
Tho C11Ei-.u.rER DE RosENTHAI., Delegate of the Grand Lodge of the Notherh1nus ·
And l'. CLAUDE, Secretary General of the Ordrr In France, as Secretary of
llin Congress.
It la stated that the following Delegates bud been appointed by other Grand
Do1lluR, who were not enabled to be present : ••rom the Grand Lodge of New York, JouN D. WILi.ARD, Past Gl'llnd Master;
Jf1•om the Grantl Lodge of Sweden, Baron Auu. STJERNSTED, Master of Ceremo·
1 • nnd Cbamlicrluin to his Majesty ;
And from the Grand Orient of the sable Empire of Hayti, the Very Illustrious
lrothcrs, Ge,neral DE DEL.VA, Oomte DE DA.MllLUtIE, Grand Chancellor, - the Dar·
II ~ VoR'As, Senator Of tho Empira, - and A1i.rioum1 also a Senator of the Em·

.

p~I

11

.

[J/(I.~,

JOURNAL OP PROOEEDtNGll.

T)ie following Masonic Grand Bodies are alRo noted BR having sent their adhes:on to the Congress, without having appointed delegateR, viz. : The Grand Lodge, Alpina, Orient of Basle, Switzerland ;
The Grand Lodge, Archimede, Orient of Gera, P'te. de Reuss ;
'fhe Grand Lodge of Hamburg ;
The Supreme Council of the Grimd Duchy of Luxembourg ;
The Grand Lodge of LouiRiana, U. S. A. ;
And the Grand Orient of the Kingdom of Saxony.
The proceedings of the Congress were as follows :
" UNIVERSAL MASONIC CONGRESS.
. ASSEMBLED AT THE ORIENT OF PARIS, IN 'Utlll:, tl!M,

By decree of His Royal Highness, Prince

LUCI.EN

Mua.u,

Grand Master of the Masonic Order in France.
PREPARATORY SESSION.

THE SEVENTH DAY OF THE FoUHTH MoNTH

l

of the year of the True Light, 5855, (June 7, 1855.) S
The ses•ion was opened under the Presidency of the Assistant Grand Master of the
Order in France, HEVLLA!IT. Bro. CLAUDE, Secretary General of the Orderiu Franre
as Secretary of the Congress, by order of the Prince Grand Master.
The illustrious President pronounced the following Address :
"VERY ILLUSTRIOUS BROTHEP.S :. "Tbe grand and beautiful idea of a Universal Masonic Congress, conceived by hi1
Royal Highness Prin~e Lucu:11 Mu RAT, Grand Master of the Masonic Order in France,
receives to-ddy a juMt cousecration t>y your presence in this preparatory session. Tomorrow, our most illustrious ~hiefwill direct, in person, the official oeemng of the Con·
gre•s. Wheu yon have heard his speech, inspired bY. the noblest se11ttme11ts, dictated by
•troug and pure logic, you will folicitale yourselves, illustrious Brothers, in surrounding a
Mason so worthy; and redouble your ardor in advancing, with him, the glory and pros·
perity of the Order.
" For myself; illustrious Brothers, I am happy end proud that the execution of a.n act so
important as that for which we are met, has been confided to me. Surrounded by Ma·
sons of a rauk so superior in the profane world, decorated with such high Masonic titles,
I fear lo find myself excited beyond my mission ; your indulgence, illustriou• Brothers,
your fraternal aid, on which I rely, and my sincere devotion, will supply the qualities
wbich have been denied me. Animatf'd by a wise and pure philosophy e•piring to the
same object, the glory and prosperity of the Order, we shall always m11rch in accorJ, and
our deliberations will be distinguished by good sense and a truly lrBlt'rnal union."
Al\er the address, the credt>ntials of the Fort>ign Delegates were read, verified, and acknowledged lo be regular.
The Brothers of France by their President Grand Master, expre11ed their acknowledg·
ments for the flattering terms in which those credentials are wrillen.
'l'he Brother, the Earl of DoNOUGHMORE, asked if the Congresa could discuss other
propositions than those made by the Grand Master of France 7
'l'he illustrious brother HEULLAllT replied, that every member of the Congreas has the
right lo make propositions; but that ii is indispensable, in order lo save labor, that those
p1opositions be presented in writiug.
A communication from the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New York, am1ounring tltut it had nomed Brother WILLARD es a delegate, but that ii was doubtful whetht'r
that brother could arrive in Paris in time for the opening of the Congress, was then reed,
There was likewise read the Commission of the Grand Lodges of Saxony and Ham·
burg, and also a Commission of the French Lodge, La Tolerance, No. 784, Orie11l of London, who regret that they are not able lo send deputations, but who entirely sympathize
witb the idea of the Very Illustrious Grand Master of Franre, and express a wish for the
success of the object which the Prince bas conceived-the convocation of a Univeual Ma·
ionic Congress at Paris.
The Assistant Grand Master announced that tho Priuce Gra11d Master would open· ~
fe'SJion of the Uni~rsal Congren tO.m<lrrow, at threo o'cldck, p, lll•

6857.)

QB.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
OPENING SESSION.
THE EIGHTH DAY OF THE FOURTH MONTH
l
Oftht year of the True Light, .5855, (June 8th, ISM.) 5

Opened, in the usual form, by the very illustrious llro. HEULLANT, Assistant Grand
Master of the Order,
The Honorable Bros. BoUBEE and MoRAND, members of the Council of the Grand
Master, holding the second and the third mallets. The bench of lhe Orator is occupied by
the illustrious Bro. Buo110T, member of the Council of the Grand Master; that of the
St>cretary by Bro. CLAUt>E, Secretary of the Congress.
The Assembly confirmed the credentials verified in the prt>peratory session •
The Brother, Master of Ceremonies, announced the arrival in the waiting room, of the
very illustrious Prince Lucn:i. MURAT, Grand Master of the Order.
The entire Asaembly arose to surround und welcome his Highness.
Each Brother is bearer of a Rtar, and provided with a sword. The very illustrious
Grand ~laster, accompanied by the deputation, and precoded by the Master of Ceremc•
nies, entered the Templo, where he was received, mallets beating; all the men1ber1 standing in order.
Arrived at the Altar 11nder the arch of steel, he was receivecl by the Assistant Grand
Master HEULLABT, who expressed to him how much all the illustrious Brothers were delighted by his presence, and the opportunity of acknowledging those eminent services
which he never ceases to render to the Order; end preeented to him the gavel.
The Grand Ma•ler graciously returned thanks, invited the Brothers to resume their
place•, and pronounced the following discourse : l\<lv VERY DEAR BROTHERS :
"Receive hero the verv sincere thanks whirh I express in my name, and in that of the
entire Fraternity. The (oreign Orient~ who have chosen to reply to the call whirh I
made to them, as the organ oT French Masonry, have felt the nece1Sity there was for us,
a socit>ty of beneficence, lo closn up our ranks.
" Al\er forty vears of peace, war renders our mi•sion more difficult; in renewing our zenl,
it furnishes u1 the opportunity o( showing lo the profane all that is grand ond geot'fou1 in
our institution. Our mission is a holy one; we lahor to render men bettor; and, in order
to accomplish this object, we appeal only to the noble and generous i111tinct1. Love, Fra·
ternilv and Charity are the sentiments we invoke.
" Ii has been said; ' Bad kings engender repuhlics, and bad republics engencer roynl•
ties.' Very wt>ll 1 my brothers, for men animated with bad paasions, ell government is
had; for those wno know how to curb their desires, end who are inspired with the love
of their fellow-man, t1very g-overnme11t is good. Jt is for this, that, in its wisdom, Mason·
ry has excluded ell di1cuss1ons of f>Olitic1. It ia easy, in eff'ect, to govern _good men_, who
have only in view the love of their fellow-man. It is tho same in a 1"aoon1c point 01 view
with religion . All tnen who believe in the exislenre of a Supremo Being, the Great Ar·
chitecl of the Universe; who believe in the immortality of tlie soul, and <"onse9uently in
an eternal well-being I every man who feels the love of bis fe-llow-man vibrate m him, is
acceptable amon!f us. Our mission 11, then, to render men heller, or rnther lo ~ul·
tivato that which 1s good, and lb repress all that is bad.
" Our mission io great, you see; bul every thing in the world i1 judged by comparison;
we cannot but be gainers hyfrequent convocation~, end by studymg the most efficacious
means to slrE'ngthcu the bonds which unite us lo earh other. I have said, aller forty
years of peace, a war, of which 110 one can foresee either the leni.,'1h or the result, comes
to revive the zeal of every Mason. Each change of government which hos taken place
during mftny years, in weakening the prc•tigc attached lo each of tht>m, has given mqre
force to public opinion, which all governments arc now obliged to re•pecl. It is then a
Bervice which ~lasonry renders, 1101 only lo humanity, but to the j1:0verumenl itself, what·
ever its form, when it directs the opinion of the masses toward Virtue, Fraternity and re,
spect to the laws.
" ~ly very dear Brothers, if I have been able lo make you comprehend my thoughts, you
will feel like me, the necessity of exleudiug the influence of Masonry in lite world; and
you will devise, before we separate, 1 hope, somo mPans of attaining that object. II is
necessary that a Brother, whatever may he the country which heinbal>its, whatever may
be the llag under which he serves, may find a fraternal hand elwaya readv lo alloviale his
suff'eringii; and that every government, flndi11g itself strong in tho pbilanlbropic support
11

84

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

which they will find among the people elevated and instructed by us, setting aside na·
tiouB.1 rivalries, may, among the people whom they are called to govern, find only
Brothers.''
This discoune, listened to by the Assembly with the mo1t.perfcct attention, was crown•

J

ed with applause.
The very illustrious Grand Master added :
"My very dear Brothers we labor. in .a c_ommon caus.e; we seek to destroy some .of
the imperfections of our Order; what mslltul!on of huma'!1ty ~as them not 7 Let us do 1t.
Under the inspiration of tbi1 though~, ~e obtain lruP. a~ehorat1on, true progress, only by
wise measures well matured and md1c1tted by experience. We shall thus successfully
achieve that g~od which we ~11 so erdeutly wish.
·
"My Brothers, the Universal Masonic Congress is open.''
The illustrious Bro. DF. RonKTUAL 1 pronounced the following discourse: ''A concourse of circumstances, indeptmdent of my will, has placed me at the head o(
the column of the South, in this august Conv:oca.tion j I feel myself, then, obliged lo re•
spoud, by a few words , to the speecli, aboundmgm w.1sd om and paternal ~enevolenre, bJ
which the illustrious Grand Master of the Grand Orient of France has JUSI opened th11
first solemn session of the Universal Masonic Congress. Believe me, my very dear
Brothers, that, without the senti~ent of.th_is obligati<?n, ofw~ich I canno~ divest myselr.
J should have hesitated to speak 1n ttn 1d1om wb1r.h 1s not mme, aud which I hove onl)'
learned for tbe/urpose of study and ordina:y con:vers~lion.
.
.
"But beyon this circ~mstance ofnc:r:ess1ty, "'.h1ch, m every c~sc ,g1ves a claim lo yc:iur
indulgence. I find, even m the compoS1t10'! ofth1s assembly, motives of confidence, which
vou will easily appreciate. I find myself m France, and I speak now, to Frcuchmen.
Among all the line qualities .which disfo1guish this en_iinent .and chivalrous nAtion, all stran·
gers delight in acknowledging that pohs1ied good will, wh1r.h supports and encourages all
those who endeavor to express themselves in their language. Then I find myself Ill the
midst of Drothers, who know bow to use the Masonic trowel lo cover the defects of an
off-hand addre•s in I\ foreign language.
.
"In fine, that which is of the highest importa!1cc 1 I ~ddress the Ve:y Ill~s.tnous Gran~
~faster of the Graud Orient of France, whose h1g·h social and Masomc pos1t1on, and pn·
~ale virtues, impose respect, bu~ whose g?od wi.11 a~d fraterual reception ~bich I desire
to acknowledge, with the most lively grahtude, mspJTes, yes, J dare to say 11, draws, from
the heart the most unlimited confidence.
"Charged with a Masonic mission, to 1ou, ~y dear Drothe~s, I feel impressed b.Y <luty,
and by an attachment without bounds, Ill calling your attention to the noble Prmre, of
whom I have the honor lo be the representative in this ~olemn Convocation. When l say
prince, [ have not the least pretension to surround the name of a true Mason, in all the
force of the term, by a borrow~d ecl~t, sur~ as belon;rs lo the profane world i but, not·
withstanding, it may not be unmle~cstmg to mform you that that 11.oble Brother belongs lo
the illustrious house of Nassau, w~1ch,dunn~ the course of cenlurie.s 1 ~as prese~tccl to the
admiration of the world many vaha.nl c~ptams, many profound polihc1ans .. lt 11 that noble race of which the celebrated h1stonan, MACAULAY, wrote that magmficent eulogy,
that' Pr~vidence seems to have set it ~part,. in order to form everywher~, defenders of
Truth and Liberty.' If such a eulogy 1s mented, ~s I .flatter mysel.f you w1.ll acknowledge
it to be you will feel my very dear brothers, that m hke manner 1s established the voca·
tion of~ descendant ~fthatillustrious house, in the defence and in the propagation of the
princ.iplea which we profess.
"Hut this has only an indirect relation to the position which I occ11pl at this moment
amongst you· I delight more to speak of the very venerable and very illustrious Grand
Master of F/eemasonry in the ·kingdom of the Pays-Has. During the long years that
this noble brother has 'been at the head of Freemasonry in the Netherlands, his attach·
ment to the Order bis devotion to its institutions, his desire to preserve it from innova·
tion-to confirm it;above all, in its spirit of l"raternity, in all the Masonic extent o( the
word-to hring it back to its true principles, have n~ver ceased, nor eve!! cooled. To
sum up my ideas, it delights me to repeat here, what ma solemn Convocall.on. of brethren,
and amid their applause, I have beretoforo expressed as my profound conv1ct1on, namely1
that I have been uncertain wh~tber the princelyql!B;lity of .the noble brother was enhance!l
by bis Masonic virtues, and bis truly fraternal spmt, or bis character as a Brother, by h11
princely virtues.
·
"Of the forty years, tts Maso~ic Grand Master, whi~h this no~le Brother h~s now.completed, I have had the. inappre~1able adv~nt~go of being, fo~ tbJTty years, without. mter·
ruption, a member of bis Counc1~. In the 111t11~1ale conversations generally succeedmg the
sittings o( the Council the question as to the history and future of Freemasonry, bas often
arisen. In these r.on~erHl1ona, "'fact, having relo.lio'! to this Congress, .had often ~p·
·pQaretl to. our min~1, -..hicb I ,will endeavor l? ~xplam m. a few words._ Wllhout stoppmg
at ant;erior Masonic Coagresstl'i!, th~ a:uthent1t•ty of wb1cb seems sull to be do'ubtful to

6867.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

85

ml\ny brothers, we were astonished, that in the twenty-five years which have preceded
lhn total political overthrow of the eighteenth century, many Masonic Congresses bad
heen convoked.lo either in Germany or in 1''rance; 1tnd, that since that epoch, to my
knowledge, no lJonvocation of this nature has heen proposed.
"'l'be necessity then, for a belier understanding, for drawing closer the bonds of Frater·
uhy, had been felt at the time; and although the well-known results of those Convocations
may have been beneath what we had a nght lo expect of them, ilis none the less estab·
1l1hod, that the ner.essity of closer union, of better understanding, of purification, were
profoundly felt 1 and had left their traces m the minds of contemporaneous brethren. Now,
ha~ this necessity never been felt since tho political event of which I have spoken 1 Is it
by some chance coincidence that these general Masouic meetings ceased nearly al the
1nme time, or o.re these two events connected by some mysterious bond 7 When I deny
1ueh a bond, I am certain of being historically correc1, and of obtaining your approval.
"As lo myself, J believe, that the errors which so soon defiled the generous ideas of that
romarkahle epoch, and which even swept in their current some l'tlasouic Lodges, excited
111rror in the hearts of true Masons, who, without abnndoning .their real principles, pre·
r~rred, for many years, to art a negative part, and if I may so express myself, to follow in
Iha wake, rather than lead in the Tront of civilization ond progress, to the danger of a l·
lnwin~ the sacred fire lo be extinguished by the torrc11ts of unbridled passion. I am con·
nrmea in these viewH by the evident fact that sinre the •torm has been succeeded by a
ralm, the need of closer union, of more intimate correspondence and reciprocal i11struc·
llnn, has again been felt by true Masons; toking hitherto the form of affiliation, of repre•
senlation, of isolated correspondences, cl1>arlv indicating tho •pirit al work among Ma·
101n, there was needed as a completion a Universal Congress. This day we behold it
ronlized.
"Yon will easily romprehend, my very dear brothers, that this disposition, or rather this
rrogress of mind, not escaping the clear judgment of my rnustrious Grand Moster, nor
lho appreciation of those who formed his council, the call which emanated from the Grand
Orient of F rance must necessarily meet among us a sympathetic reception. Thus with·
nnl lhc least fear of the possibility of a check to this generous enterprise, my Jllu~lrious
Urand Masler,by tho unnnimous assent of his council, unhesitatinglv answered your call;
1111d the Grand Oricul of the Pny•·Das, which l\Ssembled after my departure, gave its unan·
1111ous approval to the act of the Grand Master and his Council.
"Perhaps I am dwelling loo long on what may seem lo belong to my rountry, or to the
Mason ic power which I represent here; but DI the solemn moment when we are about to
diacuss general Masonic inlerC'Ats, it bas uot lo me seemed entirely u•clcss to r'Ppreoent to
you in wnal sense my mission has been conceived and acccptrd ; nnd a fa.ithfol narrative
ofonr views in this respcct,nppears the most appropriate means to atlain that object.
"Very Illustrious Grand Master of tho Grand Orient of 1''rance, it is with the Hentimcnts
lhnt I have just traced that I turn town rel yon, in orcler to expreRs lo you my most lively
arknowlcdgments for the noble nnu benevolent words that you have been pleMed to nd clress to us. They will find , I am convinced, a sympathetic echo in the hearts of all true
~lo.sons spread over the surface of the two hemispheres. The namp which you bear Very
Illustrious Brother, is traced ii1 inetl'ar.eable chnracten on the pages of history. Among
1111 the glory acquirod on lbe field of battle in the first yeRrs of this century, tbe name of
M11RAT shines with a brilliancy bright aud pure. It is surrouuded with a crown of hero·
l1m whic.h approaches to fabulous times; and, if I dare to uso such nn expression, the glory appertaining to his memory seems suflicient for many generations. Your son who
In his young and tender years, is already the pride of his noble parents, will renew1 ~r wili
augme ut, if possible, the brilliancy of tl1e name which he bears.
·
".But there was wanting ,until now, (excuse the freedom of my thought} a title of humon
slor_y; you have ncquireil it. The geuerous idea of the Convocation o( a Universal Ma·
ionic Congress belongs to you; and it; as we have the right to hope, Freemasonry enters
lhis dny the most glorious phnse of its existence, posterity, as we do at this moment, will
1rcord to you the honor. Be not, then, discouraged, Vf"ry Illustrious Brother, in oeeing
the columns of this Temple so slightly furnished. You had a riirht to expect more cagertl~•s in answering your rail; hnt as a seed sown in u fertile soil neceHSRrilv beors fruit
thus a grand and noble idea, although loso npprer.iated al the time of its iirst emission'
will soou or late unite all hearts in its fa\•or.
'
"The Supreme Arr.hitccl of the Universe will give His benediction to the work so nobly
tommenced by. you.''
After this di~courso, many times interrupted hy numerous marks of approb.ation, the JI.
lustrious Brother DE RosEKTHAL desired !be foreign Drotbers to join with him in saluting the Convocatiou of the Congress.
The salute was given with great enthusiasm.
The Vfrty Illustrious Grand Master, Priuce MU.R.lT said :-

86

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS,

[.May,

"I thank you very i>articularly, my Brother, for the flattering speech which you have
addressE'd to me. Nothing could be more agreeable than the rhoice ofsurh a brother al
you; and here 1 thank very sincerely, his Royal Highness Prince FREDERIC, of the
Pays-Bas, your very illustr1ou• Grand Master." ·
The Assistant Grand Master HEULLANT thanked the illustrious Brother Ron:NTH.t.L,
and replied to the noble speech of that Brother, by assuring him that Masonry in France
is not ignorant of the services which have been rendered to the Masonic Order by the
Prince FREDERIC, oflhe Pays-Bas , during forty years occupied as Graud Master.
With the consent of the Grand Master, the lllustrious Brother Ht:ULLAl'T, desired to
,ioio with him in applauding the sentiments expre5sed by the Illustrious Brother DE RoSENTHAJ..
That applause was given with enthusiasm.
The Brother the Earl of DoNOUGHMORE, (Ireland,) pronounced a discourse, which we
regret not being able to report exactly in bis own words.
The illustrious Brother, expressing the most elevated Masonic sentiments, declared, in
the name of the Grand Lodge of Ireland , his sympathy \with all the wishes of tho Grand
Orient of France, for the prosperity of our institution. He asked that the daily di•cUt•
sions of the different proposi tions submitted to the Congress, might take place out of thn
temple; as it might be possible in this.way to speak without the observance of a successio'Q
of formalities which at times are injurious to the utility and lo the force of the discuuion,
and in all ca sE's cause a loss of time that is precious, which every member of the Congretl
desires to employ to the perfecting of the Masouic institution.
Marked assent followed the above.
" Very Illustrious Grand Master , and all of you , my Brothers," said the illustrious Hrother
McCow AN, " I have great difficulty in exprnssing myself in French, end fear I •hall no\ ht
able to translate my sentiments, noi being familiar with the French language. 1 ask, tbell,
permission to address you in English!'
The Very Illustrious Grand l\1asterreplied :"I accord to you that authority the more willingly , that mauy Brothers of this assembly
undNsland the language in which you ask lo speal<."
The lllustrious Brother McCow AN, (Scotland,) then pronounced the following discourse:"Very Illustrious Grand Master, and very illustrious Brothen-My Brothers of Scotlancl
have desired me to convey to you their lively appreriation of the noble motives which
have induced you lo collect, in this Congres., the brethren of all parlR of tho world, and
that they accept, with cordial earnestness, the hand whirh you have held out to them.
"Th<'y coincide, most sinc.e rely, with th~ sentiments whic~ you have so re11!arkahly ell•
pressed. They_hope that th1• Congress will have the happiest. results fo_r F re~maso1!,,_
and the Fraternity in general ; ~nd that the bonds of Fralermty an? I•r1en~Hh1p w~1e,.
have eltisted for so many centuries between Scotland and France, will be still more 111ti•
mately and strongly cemented.
"I regret very much that the Brothers who ore joined with me, of Naples and Londoat
could not, in consequence of delay in opening the Congress, partake in it as they woul<I
liave wished to do.
" We form for you the most ardeul vows, and I shall carry with mo to Edinb11rgh the
most grateful remf'mllrance of the amiable reception which you have bestowed on my
Brothers nnd me. Finally, I pray you, Very lllustriou• (~rand Master, to receive the assuranco offmternal re~ard and of my most distinguished sentiments, and lo believe me
your devoted Brother.
The illustrious Brother Dl"WIDDIE n. PHILLIPS, (Richmond, United States,) proJIOUllCed the following discourse : "Most Illustrious Grand Master-I regret that the Grand Lodge ofVirginia,which h11s honored me by naming me its representative to this Coni;:ress, did not choose a Brother more
capable of filling the hio-h functions which necessarily devolve on him who is rharged
with such a mission . i ';.m strongly convinced of my mc.aparity to fill the honorahle !ind
elevated position in which it hllB been pleased to place me. Nevertheless, l shall strive,
by all possible means, to prove myself worthy of its confidence. Allow me, Very Jllus·
trious Grand .l\laster, in tho name oft.lie Grand Lodge of Virginia, lo assure you that the
fraternal a.ffoctioc expressed in the words which you havo just pronounced, 1& very sin-

6851.J

G:tlAtit> 1.0DGE OF CA.L:ti'OltNlA..

81

eerely and ardently reciprocated. Permit me to say to you that the grand and pob~ ertorll that you have alread,y made for the progres1 or Freem&sonry, (aud consequently for
the amelioration of humnmty,) have merited for you the most ardent thanks and the high11\ esteem and consideration that it is possible for man to have.
"It is true, (and I say it with the most lively regret,) that war and discord still reign on
11rth, and th11t the blood of our Brothers is still spilled and moistens the dust of the baulefteld; but if th.e memb~rs of our .venerable institution ~xert themselves in fulfilling the
rrand and sublime dnt1es with wh1eh they are charged, 1f the pure and holy doctrines
~hie~ are inculcat~d in the lessons of Freemaso!'ry. a~e followed, we may hope that the
tune 1s not. very distant when t!ie ~nt1re world will cultivate peace. We may see the time
when the hon and the lamb will he down together • when the lance will be changed for
the pruning hook; and when nations will no fonger earn war. Let us then use all our
~R'orts, and lei ua put our whole soul to hastening the accomplishment ~f thi; great work .
In the name of the Grand Lodge of Virginia. orwhich I am the fPehle interpreter I offer
you the assurance of its cordial and indefo.tigable coOperation.
'
'' In _conclusio11, permit me to express to you _my sentiments of fraternal love. I thank
you, w1~h all my 1onl, for the benevolent reception that I have received among you· 11nd
I hope 11 may please the Supreme Architect of the Universe to guide aud assist us 'in all
unr councils, and conduct u1 to the source of Truth and Light.''
The assembly then deliberated on the manner of c.onducting its labors.
A brother asked if it would not be agreeable lo the illustrioua foreign brothen that the
meetings should toke place daily, nl such hour as it may be convenien~ for the aHembly
to choose, and that these meetings may be exempt from the formalities of Masonic ceremony, which might, perhaps, facilitate our proceeding1. He added, that each might hring to
lhese meetings the fruit of his meditatio11a, in the form of propositions, which could be there
examined and discussed; a11d whenever deemed proper, a regular session might be convoked, in order to decide definitely on the points already examined. He therefore proposed that the Hall of the Council of the Grand Master be chosen by the conferente as the
ordinary place of its sillings, and that tho assembly decide that the Conference shall be
permanent.
The assembly unanimously adopted tho proposition, end decided that it shall be permanent; that it shall meet in conference every day, (certain days excepted,) at one hour
ancrmeridian, nt the Hotel of the Grand Orjent, in 1be Hall of the Council of the Grand
Master.
The Very Illustrious Grand Master, Prince MURAT, asked ifnny or lhe members had
observations or proposition• to present.
No one answering, the labors were closed in the usual form.
The .Prince Grand Master relired1 accompanied, 01 on his arrival, by tho officers, furnished with stars and 1word11 and preceded by the Moster of Ceremonies.

1

l
·Taz NINTH DAY OF 'IHE FOURTH MOl<TH
Uf the Ytar of the True Light, 585.5. (June 9, 181515.) S
The session was opened by tho lllustrious Brother HEULLANT, Assistant Gra11d Mn1ter of the Order.
The necessity of seeking some method of insuriug to every Mason arcess to Lodges,
wherever situated, subject to a regular examination when required, was admitted by all
present.
The Illustrious Brother DE ROSENTHAL, addressed the Conference on the subject.
"It is of the highest importance,' gaid he;" No Lodge can close its doors tu a Mason re•
1fUlarly initiatedliy n regular Lodge. And when that Mason shall have satisfactorily
pnssed an examination, the true Masonic Fraternity should see that in no case he be depriv_ed of the benefit of Masonic c.ommunion. Every Lodge ought then to open its door
IO him.
" I propose that there he adopted a standard formuln for nil diplomas, and that the formula be printed in Latin, with a trauslation into ea<' h reepective netional langueire.
" Before concluding, permit me, my Brothen, to insist on the necessity of proposmg none
but simple mea1ure~, very clen.rly defined, few in number, nnd in every case cha1&1:ler•
1'4!d by the great.est respect for tbe pcculiur and accepted ull8ges of each nation!'
All the members pnls\mt were ol Ille same opinibn.

88

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

Brother RosJCNTHAL laid before the Conference a circular from the illustrious Brother
Prince FREDF.llICK 1 of the Netherlands, containing a complete discussion of tho above
principles.
This Brother also presented a diploma, written in Latin and Dutch, which, without be·
ing offered as perfect, might serve a~ au ind!cat!on: This diplor,na has a ~e~tamentary
formula to be signed like the Ne Vantlur, which md1cates the desire of the signer that the
diplom; should, after his death, be returned to the Lodge in which he was initiated.
The Assembly expresaed its entire concurrence in favor of a diploma in Latin and the
national language of the country where issued, and of the testamentary formula; where·
upon it was agreed to submit the proposition to the Congress for its assent, and the sane·
tiou of all J\1asouic authorities.
The Conference decided to submit, through the Congress, for the acceptation of Mason•
ry, the following resolution: Resolved That neither written nor priutcd certificates shall be given to brethren not in
possession ~f the Master's degree.
The Conference took into consideration the difficulties arising from the profane, who,
having been rejected by the Lodge at their place of residonce,end subsequently initiated
in another, return to their homes with the usual certificate.
It was decided to make this question the subject of discussion hereafter, each JJrother
being, meanwhile, requested to seek the best method of remedying the abuse.
At six o'clock the Conference adjourned to Monday, June 11th.
THE ELEVF.l'iTH DAT OF THE FoURTJI MONTH
l
Of t/1< Year oftlu T ·rue LiglU, 5355. (June 11th, 1855.) 5
The Illustrious JJro. HEuLLA!IT 1 Assistant Urand llI1tslcr, presiding.
The President stated that it was the int,cntion of the Prince Grand Moster to have pre·
sided at this meeting, b~t that the illness of the Princess Mu RAT would deprive him of that
pleasure.
Bro. HEVLLA!IT announced that his Highness would preside on the following day, at
one I'.M., ~nd that he is desirous that the Congress should convene next year, if og:ee·
able, in Holland; he also desired that there should emanate from the Congres~ some idea
capable of elevating the intellectual character of Masonry.
Bro. DE RosENTHAL said, that he thought it preferable not to call anothnr Convoca·.
tion till three years hence. He added, that however flattered be might be, that the Nether·
lands were honored by such a choice, he feared it might be said that this country had
been chosen among so many others larger, and not less central, bec1tu" it we.a directly
represented; that he was fearful of wounding the susceptibilities of others; finnlly, this
Brother wot1ld propose Frankfort or Hamburg.
The Assistant Grand Master replied, that the difficulty is wholly in this fact, that from
Frankfort, thr. Convocation of Paris bad received no response, nnrl that H1tmbn:g1 although
having testified her active desire to participnte in tho labors of the Congress, 1s not repre·
sented in it.
Brother Do11ouGHMORE, (Ireland,) proposed that London should bo chosen as the
point of meeting of the next Congress. He supporte~ that proposition b_y the fact, that
the inhabitants of the difl"erent parts of the world, com mg to Europe, arc mdured, nee es·
sarily to visit Paris and London, whirh is 11ot the case with ~econdary cities.
Th~ Assistant Grand Mast.e r suggested the nomination of o. Permanent Commission
to receive propositions relative to tho next Congress, and to fix tho place and time ~f
meeting.
..
Hrother CUMMINGs, (Washington,) proposed, as nn amendment to that propos1t1on,
that the Commission be limited in their choice to P aris or London ; the Commission not
to convoke the Congress until it hns received notice that nll the Grand Lodges or Grand
Orients are ready to discuss tho questions proposed by the CongreHa.
Brother PHILLIPS (Richmond1 United States,) askC'd that a tlbleglltl! frb'm oac.h coun•
try re'p'r'ei;mittoli, ma/bl! naml!6 mem~ ihe tbmmi~to'n.

or

686'1.j

89

GRANl> LODGJi 01' CALIJ'ORNIA..

The question, shall the Commiuion con1i•t of seven memben, "'al voted on and ner;·
1tived ; that, shall it be of live membera, was carried. The Com111i11ion will be th11& con·
1lituted; two French; one American; one Engli11h; and one Hollnnder.
The following Drothera were named on auch Comminion:
Di: Rour.1'THAL 1 (Netherlanda.)
H.1:11LLA1'T, (France.)
Do1'oVGHHORIC 1 (Ireland.)
RAzT, (France.)
The American Brothen informed the Asaembly, that they would make known to-mor·
row, tho candidate they propose 11s a member of the Commission.
It was decided, tb1tt in case nny Comminioneris unable to attend, the Grand Mn1ter of
onch Grand Lodge having a repre1entntive in that Commission will designate hi1 aub11titute,
The Assistant Grand Master proposed to th!\ members of the Congrese to relebrate th•
Convocation by n banquet; he intimated that the Prince would preside.
The Banquet was fixed for Wednesday next, at the hour of seven.
Brother Do11ouGHMORJ: 1 (Ireland,) nsked the consideration of the re1olutioa, propo11ing, for the ~nnction ot the different Mn•onir Powers, the following declaration : Eac~ Masonic P?wer abandons the right of creating Lodge• in countries wht>rc any
Maoomc Power ex1Sl1.
The Brother developed hio proposition wilh excellent reasons, to the 1atisfo.clio1 of the
Auembly.
Brother RoSKllTllAL insi1ted, •lrongly, on the 11eceasity of declaring, that the law shall
not ha:ve an ez po1t facto ell'ert 1 and that the definitive formula shall be preceded by the
words "in future." Ho thought that, without such stipulation, the result would be the
alienation of certain German Orient. and others; besides. said he, Holland hM a num·
her of Lodge• in certain En![li•h poase•vions, constituted when tho•e countrie1 were
subject to it. The Gr1t11d Orient of Holland •till mo.into.ins amicable relations with those
Lodges. The brothers who compose thorn arc faithful 1ubject1 of the Queen of England;
but, to deprive Lhem of their olrl relation• would not he just, 11Dd might not he
acquiesced in.
The Auembly acceded u11n11imo11sly to this Just desire, and the proposition wn• plaeed
in form, as follows:".Each Mason!c ~ower abandons, iu future , thn right of ucating Lodges, where 11111·
1001c Powers exist. '
4'.t six o'clock tho Conforo11M adjourned.
'1'1u: 'l'WJ!LFTH HAT 01' TUY. FOUl\Tll Jlfo!ITPI
l
Oft/it Year oftlu 1'rttt Ughl, liSM. (Jttnt J~th, 1865.) S
The Illustrious A•sistn11t Grand Master HF.ULLAl'i1" 1 presiding.
The Jllustrious Gr1tnrl Master llEur.r.A.llT informed the Assembly that the Prince
Orand Ma•ter had designo.ted, as '' member of the Universal Congreu, the illustriou•
Urother FUR1'ELT., Deputy J,ieutcnant of tho rounty Limerick, (Irelnnd.) This brother
took his seat as such.
The 8essio11 was optmcd by a disr.ourao written by the illustrious Brother G. PAn1t11a
CVMMl1'G5 1 (Washington, U. B.) translated, in part, by the illustrious Droth~r DollOUGB•
HORE.
"VERT ILLUSTRIOUS GKA!ID llfASTF.R :"A subject so important 111 tho one in question resterday, would seem tb demand from
myself an~ colleague, n n1o~e for.cihlo e"P.reHi~n of our views, and, from thi• Congres•
ot1ch attention to th? matter m pomt n~ ~111 bo likely to remedy nn evil that has Joni:' been
a aource of complaint to tho tran~atlanlle brethren of whom we o.re the representatives.
"In that peaceful a.sylum, ou.r Lodge, which every brother feels i~ a mental garden for
the culture of those kmdly feelmgs that best adorn our common nature1 where we are
1hut out from the rest of the world with its strifes and contentions we the American Fra·
teruity, do not wish to be thought _capable of e11tcrtai1~ing: fc;ling~, ~r 11sking for the
observance of rule>, that may •ecm m any degree as prejudicial to 1he mterest and hap·
piness of one individual of tl1e human race. Thrice Illustrious Sir, we call your own
and this honorable Conventio'n's attention to the governing characteristic of our institu•
lion-Charity- not only with our means, for !hp.relief of distreued brethren our sympa·

12

I

90

JOURNAL or :1>ROOEE1>1~GS.

[May,

1hie• and consolations for their sorrows, but a higher and more distinct charity for their
errors more particularlY. 1bose that are the effect of circumstances, and seem, at least lo
us, indigenous to our soil.
"Along with the blessings of civilization, of laws, arts, religion.and le!lers, that we have
inherited from our parents, France and England, came also the mst1tuhon of slavery. It
is now g;ruwn and rooted to our soil, and ~11 a. la~ge portion. of our country is aa much a
matter of necessity to both races, as any mslltuuon that ex!sls m .lhts; ana however the
philanthropist may think, it remains, at least to the practical mmd, a matter of doubt
whether its abrogation would benefit the blacks thems!'lves.
·
" Such being toe facts and necessities of our case, we ask of the brethren of this hemisphere but the observances that we practice among ourselves in the geographical. distinc1ion that exists between the North and the South-an obs!'rvance of !lits MaJontc law of
non-interference in a matter that would 1rurtly interrupt the social and civil position of the
slave-holding Mason , and which has, unhaJ>~ily, already produced serious complaints,
and threatened as wide a gulf between the F ralernity as lhe sea that sepnrale1 them,
should the European Lod~es continue lo give charters, and confer the degrees, upon men
at least disqualified by bemg citizens of another country.
"When we remember, Tbrice Illustrious Sir, that our time-honored institution has owed
its existence and usefulness to its happy adaptation to the laws and usages of every
country in which it has ~o.urished-when w.e are conscio.us of the sml!-11 amount of good
that can arise lo the rec1p1ents themselves, trom the contmuance of this custom1 and the
large amount of evil to the instit~tio!' a~ larg:e. we feel this 9ongress.will give the.matter
its serious consideration. and will. m its wisdom, accomplish one important obJeCl by
instituting a remedy for this evil.'' ·
The Ill. Assistant Grand Master remarked that the French Masonic Constitution would
not permit the assent of F'rench brethren to the \'arious propositions of the discourse : that
it had already decided most of the points in question.
Bro. PHILLIPS, (Richmond, U . S .,) declared his willingness to abide by the resolutions of the Conference.
Bro. Ron:NTHAL called attentiou to his proposition that the various Masonic authorities should reciprocally make known the motives of exclusion in the case of profan811
declared unworthy. He insisted on the necessity of preserving the di1tinction betweell
incapacity and unworthiness. Incapacity leads to a delay in the initiation, and requires
no notice ; unworthiness, on tbe other hand. results in exclusion, ancl notice should
then be given.
Passing to another subject, and the question of profanes obtaining initiation nbroad, ·
nnd then r~turning home with certificates they could not ha\'e obtained there, as also the
subject of the admission of colored men, the Conference, after a lengthy discuuion,
unanimously adopted the following resolution, to be suhmitted through the Congres1 to
thP. approbation of the Masonic authorities :Non-residents shall not be initiated without previous inquiry of the Masonic authorities
of the conntry to which they owe allegiance, except in extraordinary and well established
ca.•es of emergency.
Bro. Ron:NTHAI. suggested that in addition to a standard form of diploma, it shonld
be incumbent on Masten of Lodges to give the initiate the words, signs and grips, of the
Scottish and modern rites, those being the ones most universally known. Whirh was
unanimously agreed to.
Bro. DoNOUGHMORE desired that cure should be taken in printing the proceeding111ot
to convey the idea that Masonry is not universal, or that Maso11• ttrc without absolute
means of recognition.
Which was referred to the Permanent Commission.
'fhe American brethren gave notice that th~y had selected the R ... ff".-. JoHN Don:,
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Virginia, a.• a member of the Permanent Com-

mission.
The c.hoice was approved by the assembly.
At six o'clork the Conference adjourned.
THF. THIRTF.ENTH Du o•· TH£ F'ovnTK Mo"TH l
Of the Year of th• Trut Ligltt, 5855, (Jun. 13, 185.5.) 5
111. Assistnnt Grand l\lasta presiding, and labor resumed in the usual form.

6867.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA.

91

Bros. BouBJ:E and 1''AuLTRIER hold the Second and Third Mallets, Bro. JAlflN as
Orator, Bro. RxxEs as Assistant Secretary, Bro. CLAUDE, Secretary of the Congress,
and Bros. DARRAGoN and L•LLIER, Masten of Ceremonies.
The 111. Assistant Grand Master, HE UL LANT, informed the Congress that he bad just
received a note from the Prince Grand Master, informing him that some unexpected
buainess would prevent him from being present at the session to-day, but that he hoped to
pre1ide to-morrow.
After a short session in the Hall of the CongreH, the brothers repaired to the banquet
!fall, in order and in silence, banners displayed, and preceded by the Masten of
Ceremonies.
All the brothers having taken their plares, l\lnsonic labors were suspendcd, in order to
participate in refreshment.
The cloth having been removed, the Hall wus tiled, labor resumed, and th" Grand
Master req11ested the brethron to charge for a sentiment he was about to have the honor
or proposing.
All being charged and in line, the Grand !\laster said. " Standing and in order, my Brothers. The health that I have the honor lo propose is
lhat of' His Majesty tho Emperor Napoleon III.' We will join with it the 'He&lth of
Her Majesty the Empress Eugenia, and of all the members or the imperial family.' We
will give also,' A toast to France.' "
"lllustrions foreign Brothers, these health•, AO dear and so precious to us Frenchmen
Are prescriherl to us also by our regulations ; but for you there is no obligaiion; you ar~
(rec to abstain· to your hearts alone we make appeal. To his Majesty the Emperor
NuoLl:oN 111'.-to 1hat l:lovereign whoaefirsl thought on ascending the throne has been
the peace of the world and tho uni~n. ?f t~e people-:- to that rivilizer who has taken up
arms only to secure progress and c1v1l1zut1on- to him who emulates the Grand Arcbitert
o( the world, and who, as an ardent lover of Masonic principles. creates daily some humaue institution. To her Majesty, the Empress EuoF.NIA, that tutelary angel of the un·
happy, who each day justifies the'choice of her spouae. 1'o all the members of the imperial family., To France, ou.r henutifol country -to bet heroic and ge!'erou1 people, who,
aner coveriag themwelves with glory m combntR\ know how to appreciate the ble11ing1 of
peace, and are happy to otTor their hands to I 1e other people whom they can call her
friends."
1st Toast-" To the glory of the Emperor Napoleon 111. ; may our devotion prove our
Jratitude to him.''
2d Toast-" To thtl Empreu Eugenia, to her happine11, and to all the memhera of tho
imperial family."
3d Toast, and the last - "To France; to tho union of the people.''
The toasts were given with the most perfect regularity, and followed by a triple and t'nergetic salute.
After which, the President Grand Master 1aid " Very lllustriou• foreign Brothers, I know not how aufliciently to thank you for tho
warin and generous manner in which you have joined us in the sentiments ju1t responded
10.

"Since we have been together, the most fraternal sentiments have reigned among us; always the same conformity of ideas; always the same desire to arrive at and aasure tho
glory and the prosperity of the entire Order.
"Our enemies, and unha~pily the number of them is great, use every mean• to annoy us.
'l'hey select words in our Constitution in order to bring on us odious calumnies, ana at·
tribute to us the cruel misfortunes of epochs which I need not repeat here.
" Yes, the words Liberty, Fraternity, Equality, shine al the head of our Constitution and
w.e .are proud of the1n; but those sublime words, trac~d on every page of l~e Gospel; that
rhvme book, have they not always been employed. m all times, for a ba818 to the principles of our Order 1
"If misled and ambitious minds, ~eeking to deceive the people by speaking to them
ur liberty, have abused those sacred word&, and tarnished them for a moment by fatal
nnd sinister interpretations, ought we to efface them from our precepts 1 No ! But
••pecially, above all, and in grav" and importa.n t circumstances, we ought·boldly and
sincerely to say how we understand thoAe philosophic ideas; how we interpret and how
we teach them, we, Masons. men of peace and umon.
"Liberty, that daughter of Heaven, that mother of civilization, that beautiful gem in the
crown of man-the liberty we teach, is not guilty of the wicked acts committed in her
11ame.

JOURNAL 01' PROOEEDINGli.

[Ma.v,

"To render to Cresar that which belongs to Cresar; to respect, practice and obey the
laws of the country :which we inhabit, is <1ne of the first obligations which we prescribe to
our new converts. In order to be truly free, man, according to us, ought to learn to subdue his passions and r.ractice virtue; lie ought to labor in the slow but truly wise and ra·
1ional proi;ress of civilization i be ougbt to devote himself to the common good.
"Equality, that which all l\lasons continually practice, is the right of each to aspire to
all the functions and dignities, but not the right of obtaining them at will; it i1 the most
worthy on whom they are bestowed. \Ve all are Brothers, all arc equal to labor in con·
cert for the common good; but earh is to be rewarded according to his works and accord·
ing to his merit.
"Fraternity, that sentiment so $ublime and so dear to our hearts, is not for us that vain
word which utopian dreamero so murb abuse. Fraternity is the sacred tie which unite1
u•; it is the obligation of all Masons mutually to love and aid earh other; it is a virlue
more sublime than the charity preached in the profane world. Inspired by the love of
our fellow-man , we share with our Brothers, we put at the disposal of all, our purse, onr
arms, and our intelligence. We thus arrive al the realization of the most pure of th~ vir·
Illes which the Grana Architec& .of the Universe has inspired-the love of our neighbor.
"Such are, Illustrious Brothen, the sentiments which animate us - they are yours - the
eagerness you have shown in coming to join us, the frel\ and sincere affection which you
oonstantly manifest, is a proof thal we arc united by the same sentiments, and by the
same principles and idea..
The Ulustrious Brother DE ROSENTHAL said:" The noble and beautiful words which we have just heard ought to be deeply engraved
on our hearts. I implore their insertion in exten10 in the proceedings; ii is important
1hat thev should be read by all and known of all; they no doubt will have a 15reat influ·
ence on· the composition of the next Congress. Dear Brother Hu ELLA NT, receive our sio·
"ere thanks; your words add, if possible, to the esteem and the affection thal we had con·
~eived for you while directing our labon.
The Grand Master said" Will you prepare) my BroU1cu, to charge for a second toast which I nm abont to pro·
pose 1"
All being charged and in line, the Grand .l'ttaster said" Stand in order, my Brothers.
"The health which I have the honor lo propose to you, and which his Hi~hness, the
Grand Master, regrets not being able lo propose in person , is that of lhe foreign Grand
Masonic Bodies represented in this Congress. We will join to it the health nlthe Dele.'
gates of th•ose power..
"Very Illustrious Brother Delegates," said the Grand Master, " l 11m happy in being
the organ of our Brothers of the Grand Orient of France, to testify our gratitude for the
marked and enlightened zeal which you have brought to the labors of the Masonic Con·
greu. Aasure, I pray you, the Grand Masters and the Grand Orienls who sent you, of
our sentiments of fraternal devotion; thank them for the manner in which Ibey have responded to our call, and above all, in being represented by brothen auch as you.
"First. · To the perpetual remembrance of the Congress.'
"Second. 'To the prosperity and glory of our Institution.'
"Third. 'To the Union of all the Orients in universal Ma1onry.'
' Al\er which a triple salute was given with enthusiasm.
The Illustrious Brother DE RosENTHJ.LL pronounced the following discourse:" Al\er the serious deliberations of the past days, we only needed to af preciate, in all
their extent, your profound attachment to the true principles of the Roya Art, and your
exquisite hospitality, the splendid and fraternal banquet around which we find ounelves
a.semhled at this moment. It is, so to •peak, the climax of the fralernal work, which we
all hope will le11ve ineffaceable traces in the annals of Preemasonry. Will you lhen ac·
cept, very dear Brolhers, the thanks which I have the honor to address you, in the name
of all the representatives of the foreign Masonic authorities assembled with you in this
sanctuary, for the truly fraternal recepuon you have tendered us during our •ojoum at thiM
Grand Orient
· " We desire, also, to unite, with these sincere lhanks, the expression of our acknowledg·
ment for the health which the Illustrious Grand Master has just proposed, in honor of for·
ei'r1 Masonic authorities, and which you have recoived with enthusiastic applause.
' When we return to our homes, we shall report, in detail, 1111 that we have seen and
beard in these ever memorable days, not forgettmg the kind words you, Illustrious Grand
Master, have pronounced, in honor of your illustrious correspondents, who will, we are
e~nvinced, feel amply compensated for their readiness in answering your call, by the
obligigg kindiien with which you have surrounded their reprosenlatives.

6867.]

GRAND LODGB Ol' CALil'ORNU..

98

" The kindl.l:' •e.ntim~~ts now intlui;ncing us are only marred by a 1in le re et which ii

l~at a sudden 111d1spos'.t1on ha~ deprived us of the pleasure of 1itting aftbis fanquet uode;

:he rv~I o; ~atFlllustrious Pr10cc, whom, by your unanimous votes, you .have placed at
e e.·, o t e reema.,ons of Fronce. We unite with you in prayers for bis rom t re
(;iverJ, ,:ind for the health an.d prosperity of his august family; we ask
rnu!triou;
ran
a•tcr, to he the meclmm whereby we may express to him oursentimcnts of res
Pf°\fnlhan~ fratern~I acknowledgment; our desire that be ma.y yet find , in 8 closer unio~
n a t e a•ons dispersed over the surface of the globe the reward of that work he h
111 happily commenced."
'
a•

yol

At the conclusion of this address, n triple 1alvo of applause was given, under direclion

or flro . HEULLAl'!T,

The Senior Warden then asked permitsion of the Illustrious Pre.ident to rommand a
charge for a sentimelll he desired to propose.
Au~ority heing granted, the Orator and Junior Warden were directed to rausH the co).
11111ns m the North and South lo charge. All being r.hargf!d and in order Br H
anid'
, O. OUBEK

I •;The 1p~lth itLi1 my privilege to J~ropose to you, my brethren, is that of the 1 'l'hrire 11·

II~ ri~us rmrc ucucN MUf!J.T, Grand MRStcr o( th11 Moson• in J.'ranro. J.et us Joi
w1,t,h 11 that of.our ,beloved Ass1•tant Grand Muters, }h;ur.t,J.NT and RJ.ZY.
n
Let.our v1vnc1ty prove to our respected Grand Mnstu how ho
and roud
lo see l11m ~t our hvad, extending his benign infiut\nre over our or!!~;. and ~o hit r:.~~
11111s,. how smcerely we appreciate their devotion to the Order and the' brilli'ancy of th ·

Kttnmments.

'

cir

"First. 'The Prince a.nd his fam ily long life and happinesa'
:; ~ec~~d., ' 'l'he Asai~tant G.rand M~te.rs, and all who nre d~ar to them.'
Th11d. The ever 1orreaa111g prosp~nty of Masonry.'.,

'~'he sentiments .were received with great applause; Grand Master HEU I.LANT respond·
A · t
G d
1d 111 behalf of 111s Royal Highnesa Priure LucrEN MuRJ.'r Th t
Masters returned thanks.
'
e wo 55 '" ant ran
After a short int11rval, the Illustrious Pre•ident requested the brethren to charge for 11
(onrlh toast he would propose.
All being charged, and in line, the Grand lllastcr iaid-

~ j he. health whkh J have the honor to propose to you, i• that of'Our Brothers t'!enior
Mn muor \Vardens, Orat<_>r, 8crrctary, .nod Masters of Cert'monies.' (llt'rc the' Grand
Masler addresaod a few k10rl and ftattormg remnrks to eu!'h of 1he Jl 11
d
'l'his
toast • m"
Jlr0 ther•, 19
· <l.cS1gne
·
d to express to those officers our salisfartiou
ro 1ers name
.)
• •
J
with the
ht1lha11t manner they have d1srl!arged the duties of tb<'ir offic 6 and to t••t'f
It h
mcnt to them."

Drank, hy lhrec times, wilh tho usual opplauso.
'J'he Senior Warden, Bro. Houaxr:, rose to reply.

,

~~ 1 Y our a

nr •

•

1

Resbectnble !Jrothe!s.'.said he, 1 the Grand Master, in proposing thehP.ulth of the offi.
r~rs who ave a~•isted him m the l~l!ors of l~c Congrea•, has been pleased to include me
w1tb such tlattermg remarks. that, 11. a~y tlung were ueeded to excite a Mason's zeal it
would, doubtless, be th~ hope of obtammg sucli commendation
'
"A~, who would not be proud!<> he so honored ~y tho repres;nlatives of Universal Ma1onr.i:. Moreove!, I ran say with truth, lhnt for •1xty years that I hove had the ha incu
to enJoT, the true hg~1t, I have ne\'er. experience~ a more lively, anti, at the same ~hne 11
more p easant emollon. But I •top, m order to give the floor to thb Broth 1 s · \\•'
~en an dd Orator, ,~ho are al~o bighl.v honored, an<! not less impatient to ~~ p' re:~llh~ir :;·
·-1ep~ ~
.
.
The IlrolherOrator, said"

" Deign, ~llustrious Brethren,. to accept the very sincere thanks of nil the ofticer. wholC'
111mcs }'.OU ave honored, and m whose name I speak nt this moment J am fdarful of
wenke1!10g th~ effect of lhe discourse of our respectable Brother Bou:e:r:'E . we 5 •m aih'
In all l11s senllments, as we unite with his request for a triple solve.'' · '
J P ize
Dro: ~o~BF.F. read an ode, entitled, 11 The Universal Masonic Congress," followed b
th11 fehe1tat1ons of all the mcmliors present.
y
The Grand Master H:i:ULLAl'IT called for a S11lutc of thanks and added" We salute, m:ir friends, in the respectable Brother HouBu:' the Nestor of French M
toory, more than fourscore years ola, a Masonic devot~e of i:.ost pure and lively faith;.

JOURNAL 011' PROCEKDlNGB.

9(

[Moy,

·d
t b t w many day• on our dear Brother
ID06t complete self-denial; may Prov1 ence ye es o

Boua:u :.

'.'. ~h~efiK~~:!~:'i~ ~A~rM~ons, happy or unhappy, throughout the world.' "
The sentiment, as' all the others, wao given with ardor, and followed by a warm Ill1ute.
The poor box wa.s carried round.
lt being past midnight, the labors were closed in the usual form .
All retired in peace.
THE FouRTEE1'TH DAY o•· THE FOURTH MONTH

l

Of tht, Ytar of tltt Trnt Light, 5855, . ( ~unt 14, 1866.) 5
Thrice Illustrious Grand Master Prince Lucn:N MoR.lT, pres1d1ng.
.
The v t>r • Illustrious Grand Master entered the Hall ~f the CongreBI, and occupied th~
Chair in th~ East, having on his right the ll\ustriou~ Assistant Grand Master HEULLANT'
on his left, the Assistant Grand Master RAZY.
Bro. CLAUDE, Secretary.
d
d ·d . _
The Very Illustrious Grand Master invited the assembly to be seate , an sat · h k
d ·
I
th ·uin..-s of the Congress to-day . I have to t an
"My Bhrot~ders, wh es1gft, tod~ds:nd fos: the'lntelligence you have manifested. I hope
you for t o a1 you ave a or
'
I . b lI t
ot deceive ourselvt>I. Tho Con•
that thi~ fh·ngress ~:i~ehb~: tt~~a!ri:\i~glfiomu th! wl!d~m and m~turity of its judgmenllf
!~dsa;~ve ~ll~ th~ concurrence of Foreign Grand Orients. This result mu•t be one o
I ro oiitions which in your wisdom you
time. I trust it is not doubtful:
" We are now to voteb defi~it~:r d~ot~:es:;:;~tfnc:of the different Masonic authorities.
have thought proper to e su 1m1 e
.
" The following are lo be thus submitted :~ ·
b r as bear tho cbarac·
"1st. '~'his Co.n.gress will only sdublimitduchndl:"~li°:~:e~ '~:~lfes~ 'the greatest resped
1
tcr of evident utility, are c early e ne , a
0
for the acc.epted anddinterttaGI cusJoL1:dg~sc:~~h~ogul~b~· that no diploma shall be given to a
" 2d. It is propose to~11 ran
M '
brother who has n?t attfamed ldhe ddegree ~~ ~pa~~~a isaps~~P·osed to all Masonic authoritiet.
" 3d The adoption o a stan ar form
.
11
d to haVI' also
The diploma to ~e in Latsient'i·twng
ithro~\~ath~l~~~~~°.,}~~:~~~i~len~t~t:~~~~rahls
death it may
a testamentary 1ormu a,
.
d
J1
=~~~~~r~
is
hereby
constituted.
The
Comm is·
be returned to the Lod{; fron! --:hencf
0 1
"4th. A Pc~manenl 0m"! 159.' 011 T v 1 f the Grand Orient. It is charged with the
sion will hav11 1t.s seal hl Par~s, m ~~:So:~~:ihorities the propositions and publ!cat!mu of
duty of forwardm{ tot e v~rious
d
. to receivt> all letters, commumcat1ons or
the Congress ; to e~p ~ tis Gcorr~s()~t~n~~~~ 'Grand Lodges or from in<lividunl l\1aso11s,

1

1

~~~F,~~!'~'(~[:ri.~;~;:
f:~~d?f ;;,~rl mbt>~tat~~1~ 1fi'n~jyC~h:gyr~r~;
~nfi~ fu~r~;:~':~:i~t::'/e
he deemed useful m 1orwar mg 1~~ a o ·
'
fo~, ~i.:c~:~f:!i.fn i~ ~h:m~~~~de~f the following illustrious brethren : 0

CHEVAJ.IElt DE RoHtcTHAL, for the Netherlands
CouNT DotcoUOHlllOKlt,
"
~:~:i~d State~.
JoHN Df)vE,
,
·
HEULL.ltcT,
"
F ',~nee,
Ruv,
I 0

dM t
"In case
his
of the Gran
o ge, or ra
•
stitute.
.
h ..
. 'uturc to abandon the practice of consti1uting Lodges in
"6th. Masonic aut ortttes are tn ,,
. t
.
0
countries --:h.er\M".sonL Pd g':~ri:~h~a~ri::::i~• of other powers, 8 ho.uld .ro~•e.nl .to these
"dAuthorill.es avd~f th~ actual authority of the Grand ],odge having JUrtSdtctton over
Lo ges pa.. mg uu
the te rritoLrydwhere thleybarel lf\octoatethde"1r owu discretion and thA authorities of the countries
'" l'he 0 ges are o e e
'
·d
·
·
where thif. are locatedd~hould thea.t ~h.eC wit~ z~t:~~:~sld~~~ l~~~f:y shall be made ofth.e
a~;;~~iiiese~'f't~~r::~:lr;~o l~~i:h,~h~ac~'::'dldate owes allegi~nce, except in well authenti-

odfLthedinabilityGofnadn>Q~f;;.~ ~~':hi~hh~dr!'~~th~!io~~e~ii\' ~~~ig;:~ a:u~~

cated cases of emergendcy. .
, . the degree of M. M. should invest the candidate
"7th Masters of Lo ges, m con1errmg
.'
with tb~ words, signs ana grips of the S cottish and modern rites.

6851.j

Gl.tAiiD toi>GE oil OALitORNU..

"8th. Thia meetin!(, considering the apron as tho symbol of labor, that it bas alwaye been
•n Important symbol m Masonry, that it ia in general use, purposes to decide-that in all
Muonic assemblies the apron is indispensable.
" 9th. Convinced of the great utility of a regular.and 11ninterruptcd eorrespondeace between the various Masonic powers, tho Congre11 invites all Masonic authorities regularly
10 exrhange copies of their printt>d proceedin~.
"10th. The Congress insist.a upon the necemty of rertain central points in each country,
!\Jr lhe reception of correspondenre, whence it conld be diffused throughout the j url1diction.''
'l'he various propositions having been put to vota in the order named, they were unanimously udopted.
'fhe Thrice Illustrious Grand MastP.r asked if any of the members had any observation
nr proposition to present.
Bro. RosENTHAL arose and spoke as follows:" T hrice Illustrious Grand Master : When at the opening of this Congres•, 1 besouirht
you not to be disheartened at the paucity of it• numbers, l l>elieve I expressed the seuli·
111e11ls of all who heard me ; we 11re not rertainly to look at the number of those who first
1mbrace a generous idea to judge of its value or the extent of the benefits, of which, sooner
ur later, it may prove the fruitful germ. History teaches us, that those generous ideas
lhat have g iven a new impulse to lium unity, and prepared the well-being of future gener•llons, have been mo.lured in •ilcnce, or in the associations of sympathetic hearts. Freetn••onrv being a human instilutiou , is in nowise exempt from th11t slow and proireu ive
movement that seems to have been marked oul by 1he Deity, as characterizing all
lhlll is g reat und noble; all that is proper to dirert humanity 111 the path of true hap·
pluess.
" At this solemn moment, when the Sessions of the Masonir. Congress are drawing to a
Plo1e, when we are about to separale, perhaps forever, I recall your atlention to my first
1hous-h1s, and aak you, with the utmo•I rertninty of a nes-ative answer, whether any rea111111 tor discouragement has appeare1\ to your minds durmg the duy• just past. True, we
have been fPw iu number; the places that might have been occupied hy the delegates
l~om other Mnsonir. powor1, have remained vacant, and we have lar.ked the benefit of
lbcir roncentrated intelligence; but, the mo•t perfect union, an nu reserved ngreement on
lht Mcessity of a rloser allian«o in our Order, and a spirit of moderation and I•'raternity
have distinctly charorterizod the Unh•ersal Masonic Congress ron vcucd by your frater·
ual act. Of these things wo may justly be proud; and, I can aflirm, without foar of con·
lrRdiction on your part, that we have taken a step, however imperceptible, in the direcllun of true M1tso11ic progress.
" When foroign Masonic bodies •hall have examin11d the report of our proceeding» whir h
.)'UU propose lo send them, I ftatter myself that they will appreciate the moderation, the
•ttachmenl lo the Royal Art, the truly fraternal spirit that ha ve governed u11. They will
l"PCeive, that far from i;iving way lo noisy aud useless declamation, we have r onlincd
IMlr•clve.• to strictly prnctiraf views ; that the modest propositions whirh, while fully re·
1pec1ing their independeure, we have submitted , for the r.011sidc rntio11 of a fo ture Cougre••,
are hounded by the external relations common to all Masons ; thut wo have nbslained from
tvery thing foreign to the Roy al Art; rontrary to the fundamental prinr.iplos of our be111Rcenl uuion, or which might have wounded the mo•l delicalo susceptibility of a brolber,
llf any rite practired in our sacred iuslitution.
" True brethren, wherever dispersed, in reftectingupon what I have thus hastily sketched,
will feel that we have comprehended the actual state , and the mo•t pressing needs of
ll'reemasonry; that, like you, Thrice J llustrious, we have desired the extension of our mulllal relations ; the detection and removal of the obstacles which seem to oppo•e it; and
11111, like you, we are willing to leave to 1hc free development of fixed principles, the
rue and tho glory of extending, to the uttermost limits, a. unity of practire aud principles.
"May that glorious day soon appear, whon all mortals intbe two hemispheres shall re·
1ornize F reemasonry as the noblest of human in1titutions ; as the best adapted to the
wantj of humanity.
• 1 Mny our labors assist in hastening the triumph of truth, and the progress of civilizalion,
1Ail1 as connected therewith, may your name, Thric~ lllWJtrious Hrother, be placed, by a
1rateful posterity, among the benefac tors of humanity, to whir.It end may the Great Ar1bltect of the Uuiverse de ign lo bless our labors and grant our prayers.''
1'he Assembly loudly applauded the noble sentiments so eloquently expressed.
1'he Prince Grand Master relurned thanks to all, and especially to the Illustrious Bro.
ltr RosENTHAL, adding :-

96

.totiRNAL ()ii' PROOEEDIHds.

[.Alay,

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"My brethren, you are now about to return to your re1pective Orienta; convey to them
our gratitude for their ready auistaoce, and asaure them ofmythaoka for baving1elected
1ucb brethren a1 you.''
The Senion of the Universal Masonic Congre11 for 1855 was then clo1ed.
By order of the Congress,
(L. s.]
P. CLAUDE, 33d,
Secretary General oftht Ord•r,
Secretary of Conrre11,

The peculiar interest which must necessarily attach to the 'proceedings of an
aHemblage of this kind, the first we have ever heard of, will prove a 1ufficient
justification, we trust, for giving to them so much space in this report. We had
not time, overborne as the writer of this has been with other busine11 of the Grand
Lodge, to prepare an abstract, and even had time been given, it is probable we
should have preferred to present them thus, as thereby the manner, as well u the
subltaace of the transactions is exhibited. With but little exception, the few re·
suits arrived at are precisely the conclusions which have e,·er governed Americaq
Masonry, so far as they extend, and the action of the Congress haa thu1 been complimentary to U9 of the Western Hemisphere. That Diplomas should be given
only to Ma1tP.r Masons, is the general, probably the universal practice in. the
United States; and that th~y should be in Latin and the language of the country
where issued, is the customary usage also. But the "testamentary formula" which
it is proposed they sho)lld contain, by virtue of which they are to be sent back to
the body whence they issued after the death of the holder, does not accord with the
practice in this country, nor with our views in regard to their uses. In America
such instruments are intended to be kept 9y the wives and children of the deceasc4
owner1, so that should neceslllty require 1t, they may be exhibited ns evidence•
of the right of those thus holding them to make claim upon the Order for assist•
ance; and further too, many of the Grand Lodges of the Union, our own among
the number, direct the issue of Diplomas for Masons, after deata, for the benefit of
their widows and orphans. Of the other propositions we have not time to speak.
The whole affair is interesting, but we are not enabled to perceive that much
practical good is likely to result from it.
Your committee have thus presented a reflex of the transactions of thirty·one
of the Grand J,odges of the United States, together with such informntion from
Foreign Grand Bodies as has been communicatAd by them. They have paused
but little to discuss or comment upon any subject, having been compelled to hasten
through this labor, almost with locomotive speed; and now, almost at the very hour
for your assembling, having performed this taPk entirely during the later hours of the
night, our pen is laid a~ide with the profoundest satisfaction, and its hurried production is presepted "with all its imperfections on it~ head."
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ABELL,
Chairman Com. For. Corrtapondence.

The foregoing report was received, and the Grnnd Lodge WWI then
called off until 10 o'clock, to-morrow morning.

97

Jn ~rnnl! .#lollgc.
MORNING SESSION,
}
A. L. 6857.

~hursday, May 14th,

The Grand Lodge 'vas called on at 10 o'clock, A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by the Grnnd Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
yesterday were read and approved.
Bro. A. MARTIN, from the Committe~ on Credentials, reported the
following additional members ns present and entitled to seats, viz.: from
Western Star, .. No. 2, ...... J. N. CHAPPEi,, proxy for Senior Warden.
Tehama, .......... No. a, ...... GEo. E. MoNTGOKERY, proxy for Junior Warde;,
Tuolum11e1........ No. 8, ...... W. W. TRAYLOR, Representative.
Occidental, ....... No. 22, ...... JAUES 1.1.IDLEY, proxy for Senior Warden.
Golden Gate,. .... No. 30, ...... IIENRY J, MoRTON1 Junior Warden.
Lebanon,. ......... No. ~9 1 •••••• JouN F. DAKON1 Past Master.
Suisun1.........:.No, 55,. ..... S. S. 8111TD1 Junior Warden.
Corinthian, ...... No. 69, ...... Ju1Es ALLEN1 Past Master and Represent11.tive.
Enterpriae, ....... No. '10, ...... JonN M. FRONK, Representative.
Nebr<uka, ........ No. 71, ...... F. R1Ln, Senior Warden.
Rose's Ba1·1...... No. 89, ...... Wu. M. PEARL, proxy for W. l\I. and J. w.

Which report was received and concurred in, and the brethren there·
in named wero admitted to scats.
Bro. H. G. BROWN from the Committee on Unfinished BW1ineB11,
presented the following report : To the M.·. W:. Grand Idge qf California: The Committee on Unfi1.1ished Business report thnt they ~nvc carefully examined the record of proceedmgs at the last Annual Communication of the Grnnd
Lodge, and find the following matters still unflni~hed : The case of CanrsTIAN KrNTZ, in regard to whom information wns requested by
the Grand Lodge of Missouri, wns referred to Loi Angelu Lodge No. 4~ with inHtructions to report nt this Communication. {See printed Proceedings 1B56 pago

807.)

,

,

A resolution was ndopted to elect n Board of Trustees at each Annunl Communication, for the mnnal!'ement of the Masonic Hall Fund etc. but no such election was h~d. {See .Prmted P:oceedingt>, 1856, pnge 346.)
'
The epec1al committee appomted at the Annual Communication In 1854 to procure a suitable stone for the National Washington Monument, and to soli~it subecriptions from the Lodges therefor, was directed "to report to the Grand Master

13

6857.)

98

JOURNAL or PROCEEDING!?.

[May,

an account of all moneys received for that purpose, and to pay the same over to
tJ.e Grand Secretary in time for the account thereof to appear in the printed Proceedings of this (the 111St) Communication." (See printed Proceedings, 1856, page
353.) Your committee aN informed that no sµch report or paymeat has Ileen
mlde.
A committee wns appointed to revise the Constitution, Regulations, etc., of the
Grand Lodge, with instructions to report at 'this Cwnmunication. (See printed
•
Proceedings, 1856, page 353.)
'fhe Committee wuo presented the present ritual, in 1854, was directed agnln to
assemble in Sncramento in July, 185ti," for the purpose of reconsidering their labors, nod ngain presenting a mode of work for the !!fa.sons of this State." (See
printed Proceedmgs, 1850, page 355.) It is presumed that a report will be presented at this Communication.
The special committee appointed at the Annual Communication in 1855, relll·
t lve to ~he donation of certain lBnds to the Grand Lodge by Bro. A. M. WINN
w.is continued at the last Communication, with power to act. (See printed Pn!
c ~edings, 1856, page 363.) It is supposed that n report will be presented nt this
m:!eting.
. The following amendments to the Constitution were proposed at the last Communication; and, having been then approved by a majority, will come up for
lllal action at the present meeting, viz. : - .
To amend Sec. 14, Article X., so that notices of rejection, shall be forwarded to the Grand Secretary, and hy him be disseminated among the Lodges.
(See printed Proceedings, 1856, page :119.) The committee respectfully recommend the n.doptlon of tbe nmendment.
To amend Sec. 3, Article IX., by reducing the fee for Diplomas to two dollar11,
etc. (Sec printed Proceedings, 1856, page :133.)
To acld a new Section to Article V1., relative to the appointment of other
standing committees. (See printed Proceedings, 1856, page :!44.)
To amend Sec. 6, Article X., so as to authorize Lodges under tbi~ jurisdiction,
without the State, to hold staleu meetings twice each month, and to act upon
applications aftor the expiration of two w~eks. (See printed Proceedings, 1856,
p~ge 353.
'l'o amend Sec. 1, Article III., so as to change the day of Annual Meeting of
t '1e Grand Lodge to the second Monday iu August. (8ee printed Proceeding!',
1856, page 31l0.)
·
To amend Seo. 1, Article X., so that the Annual Elections in the Lodges shall
be holclon at the stated mtJetmgs next prectlding the Anniversary or 8t. Jobn the
liaptist. (See printed Proceedings, 18.>6, page 3ti0.)
'l'besc your committee beltu\·e to be nil tbe matters lying over from the last
Commumcation, and they take the occasion to express the opinion that so far as
the prciposed amemlmcuts are concerned. all, w1 th the exception of the llrst
named, 11ro nullities, having been adopted in violation of that port.ion of Article
XlII.. of' the Coustitution, which requires that uny amendment proposed shall
b~lresented bfjore the dution of Grand Officer•·
II of which Is respectfully submitted.
ll. G. DROWN, }
A. T. NELSON,
CHAS. lt'. IRWIN, Committee.
A.]!]. CALLAWAY,
CeA.S. MEREDITH,

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. H. A. GASTON presented a transcript of the proceedings of
-;Minnesota Lodge, No. 67, in tho cusc of'E. CROWE, sui>pendcd by that
Lodge on the twelfth June, 1856, und his nppeal therefrom; which,
with other paper3 having reference thereto, was referred to tho Com·
mittec on Grievances.
\

99

GRAND LODGE OJ' CALIFORNIA.

Bro. J. W. CLAIBORNE, from the Committee on Grievances, pre·
1ented the following reports: T.i the Jf,., W:·. Grand Lodge ef California: Your committee, to whom was referred the appeal upon the expulsion of WM.
HooK, PY Martinez Lodge, No. 41, beg leave to report as follows:.
The grounds taken in the appeal appear to be entirely technical. They ure
let, that but little over nine days had elapsed from the service of the "attested
copy "
the charjl'es, when the trial was commenced ; thereby conflicting with
the re9u1~cments of the Grand Lod~e, ns ueclared in Sec. 10, Artiole X., of the
Const1tut1on, an~ Seo. 1, R~le I., of the Regulat!ons·concerning Trials: uad 2d,
that hearsay testimony received, and the ueposit1ons taken before a Justice of the
Peace, invalidated the action of the Lodge.
Your committee beg leave to s:i.y that to order a new trial lo this cn.se would
renew an investigation, painful to the Masonic community in the neighborhood
where the circumstances occurred; and that although the ten days' notice was
not quite given, yet as the "attested copy" was dated the twentieth of March
and the trial was ordered for the thirtieth of that month, the difference of a fe~
hou:s lost in the service is not material enough to interfere with the ends of
Justice.
';l'~e admission of t~e hearsay evidence, which was Improper, did not, In the
opm10!1 of your co1!1m1ttee, affect the decision of the Lodge, as all the facts {wltl:out said hearf18y evidence,) were fully establisheu by proper testimony. They
therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:Re.!olved, That the expulsion of W1LJ.JAM HooK by ,llartinez Lodge, No. 41 be
nod 1s hereby confirmed.
' ·'
All of which Is respectfully submitted.
JAMES W. CLAIBORNE, }
.
0. C. WHEELER,
Qmim:ttu.
E. s. RUOGI.ES,
.
GEO. JOHNSTON,

or

T.i the M.·. W.·. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia: Y?ur committee, to whom wus referred the appeal of L. G. LYON, under sn11pen810n o.s a member of lone Lodge, No. 80, beg leave to report that they find
f1·om th~ papers In the case, that the trial was conducted under the d irect.Ion of
tlle .JnmorWarden, nctlng as Master pro tempore, while the accused was at the time
Ren1or Warden of the Lodge. As your committee ure of opinion that no authority can be shown for such a mode of proceeding, they recommend the adoption
of the following resolution: & s?lved, That the action of Ione Lodge, No. 80, !n the case of L. G. LYON bo
1ct II.Bide, and that u new trial thereof be ordered.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES W. CumoRNE,}

0. C. WHEEi.ER,
E. 8. RuooLES,
GEO. JOHNSTON,

,..,_

•

vw,.mittee.

Both whiuh reports were received and concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.
Bro. N. G. CuaT~s, fro1n the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence,
presented the foUowmg report : 2'b the M. ·• lV.•. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia: Yo.ur commit~ee, to '~hom was referred the petition of OccidentaJ, Lodge, No. 22,
pray1.ng for ~ dispensation to confer the three degrees of Masonry upon an appli01nt ID less time than that prescribed by the regulations of this Grand Lodge,

100

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINOS.

would respectfully report : -That they have given the subject that cons:clcrat!on
which its importnnce seems to require, nnd are of opinion, from the facts &;t forth
in the petition, that this is properly a cnse of" emergency" ns contemplated by
the "old regulations" in such cases made and provided ; but ns our Constitution
makes no provision for such cases, the1 are of opinion thnt the Grand
Lodge cannot grant the prayer of the petitioners· without violating tho 6th Sec.
of Article X. of the Constitution, which provides that "All npplications for
initiation or membership shall be made in writing, at a stated meeting of the
Lodge ; but 'shall not be acted upon until after the expirntion of four weeks, nnd
then only at 11 stated meeting."
Your committee to whom was also referred the report of Yuba Lodge, No. 39,
in relation to certain charges preferred by Bro. W. B. LATHAM, J11., against Bro.
A. MAUllICE, JR., at the last Communication of this Grand Lodge, and which were
referred to said Lodgo for investigation, further report : That the said communl·
cation from Yuba Lodge represents that nfter a careful investigation of the charges vresented, the Lodge found nothing which should nffect the Masonic standing
of Bro. MAURICE. They therefore recommend the adoption of the report of Yuba
Lodge, No. 39, and the approval of its action in the premises.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
N. GuEENE CURTIS,
E. LANE,
E. BOGARDUS,
Committee.
J.C. BURCH,
Tuos. M. REED,

l

Which report was received and concurred in 1 and its recommendation was adopted.
The Grand Secretary presented a memorial from Hawaifrt.n Lodge,
No. 21 1 at Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, relative to the· peculiar and
disagreeable nature of its position in regard to the organization at that
place, known as the Lodge Le Frogr~s de l' Oceanie; and nlso a petition from the same Lodge, asking that a District Deputy Grand Master
for those Islands may be appointed : - Both which were referred to the
Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock, this afternoon.

6857.]

101

ORAND LODOE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Grand Ma.liter, in accordance with the report of the committee
to whom his Address was referred, announced the following speci~l
committee-

On the subject of Bide Degrees:..................

Bro. H. F. Williams,
" J. Kelly,
{ " Jas. Allen.

z.

Bro. B. NEWMAN p_rcsented a petition from Petaluma Lodge, No.

77, asking a remission of its delinquent dues for the year ending March
fourth, 1856; which was referred to the Committee on Finance and
Accounts.
The Grand Secretary presented a petition from sundry brethren residing in tho City of Sacramento, praying for a Charter to open a new
Lodge in that city, to be called Concord Lodge; which was referred
to the Committee on Dispensations and Charters.
The Deputy Grand Master presented the following proposed amendments to the Constitution: We propose to amend Article XIII. of the Constitution by striking out the
snme, and Inserting instentl thereof the following: "Any proposed nmendment or alteration of this Constitution sl111ll be presented
to the Grand Lodge In writing nt nn Annual Communication, before the election
of Grand Olllcers, by the repreRCntntives of nt lenst three subordinate Lodges;,
nnd, if sanctioned by two thirds of thu members present, shall become a part ot'
this Constitution."
J, ISAACS, W.·. M. Western Star Lod~, No. 2;
L. C. Ow1rn, W:. M. Golden Gate Lodgt, No. S~i
JACOB MAYER, P. M. nnd Rep. Lebanon Lodge, No. 49.
We propose to amend Article XIII. of the Constitution by striking out the proviso in said Article.
II. G. BROWN, W,'. M. Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18.
J, H. EWALT, W:. M. Mountain lbrest Lodge, No. 75.
TnoMAB I'. HAWLEY, w... M. Nevada Lodge, No. lB.

Both which propositions to amend were ordered to be entered upon
the minutes. ·
Bro. J. R. CRANDALL, from the Committee on Dispensations and
Charters, presented the following report: -

Jn @ranb JJ:obge.
AFTERNOON SESSION,

}

Thursday, May 14th, A. L. 6857.
The-Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.

1b the M:. W:. Grand l..<Jdge ef California: Your committee, to whom was referred the records nnd other papers from
Lodges under Dispensation, beg leave to report that in the discharge of the duties
assigned them they have cxnmined the books and proceedings of the following
Lodges ; and find their work generally correct, and in nccordauce with the requirements of this Grnnd Lodge, viz. : Arcata - - Lodge,
Pa,faro Lodge,
Mount Zion Lodge,
Mounl J~ferlJ()n "
Chico
"
Saint Mark's "
Ozoen
"
Summit
"
"
Winekor
Dihble

"

Eim

"

102

[Ma9,

JOURNAL OF l'ROCEEDJNOS.

0857.J
Your committee find tho.t the records of these Lodges ho.ve generally beell
kept in accordance with the requisitions of this Grand Lodge, and that the Lodgei
have adopted the code of By-Laws recommended by the Grand Lodge at its !Mt
Dommunico.tion. They are, however, compelled to notice a few exceptions to the
gmeral regularity of the records. In some instances Lodges· have not bel!n closcd
f,·om one regular meeting to another ; but the practice of calling off for several
successive meetings has obtained, notwithstanding the admonition in this parfa,.
ular contained in the report of the Committee on Dispensations and Charters preSJnted o.t the last Annual Communication.
Your committee with pleasure refer to the records of Owen Lodge, as most cred·
itable to the officers and members of that Lodge. - the large o.nd rapid increase
of whos~ membership must have rendered the duties of its officers o.rduoua in tho
extreme. The records of Mount J~tferson Lodge are correct, that body consto.ntl.1
observing the prootice of closing at each meeting. The so.me may be said of Arcata Lodge, except in an inAtance of the reception of a petition for initiation.and
its reference at a called meeting, and in the auditing of a bill on that occasion. The
records of SI. Mark's, Wind8or, Summit, Eden, Chico, Pajaro, and Dibble Lodges, are
in the main correct. It is recommended to Summit Lodge, that the names of the
members present o.t their meetings appear hereafter on their records. The records
of Mount Zion Lodge do not show any authority for its organization or existence;
the names of its members other than the officers are not mentioned in the minutes;
and at 11 stated Communication held April 7th, the Lodge was opened in the third
·degree, and so remained open until the 28th of that month. In other respects the
work appears correct.
Your committee are convinced that the errors above alluded to were the result
only of a want of MaROnic experience, 1md believe that the good inclinations of
tho~ having charge of these Lodges will lead them to a better acquaintance with
the Constitutions of Masonry o.nd the requirements ol this Grand Lodge.
Re!!pecting Folsom Lodge, your committee fh1d that its records luwe been very
irregularly kept i they do not show whether meetings were stated or special, and
they do not in all cases show who were present. At some meetings of the Lodge,
the names of the W.'. l\Iaster and Secretary only appear; the minutes have been
approved at 11 called or special meeting, and when the business for which the
Lodge was called together was completed, it was called off instead of being closed.
The records do not show by what authority the Lodge was organized; and it bas
not completed any work- not yet having conferred the third degree.
Your committee therefore recommend the adoption of the following resoln·
tions : ·
R~olved, That Charters be issued to Arcata, Mount Jetferaon, Owen, Dibble, Pajaro,
Chico, Summit, Eden, Mount Zion, Saint Mark' a, and Windsor Lodges ; 11nd that their
representatives present be admitted to Reats as members of the Grand Lodge.
Reaolved. That the Disp~nsa.tion of Folsom Lodge be continued until the next
Annual Communication.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
J. R. CRANDAJ.L.
J. w. HARVJLLE,
WM. A. JANUARY,
\
E. C. SOUTHWORTH,
Joe. DE BELL,

Oommitt~.

1

Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolutions ac. it
. were adopte d.
•
companyrng
Bro. F. L. JACKSON presented a petition from Suisun Lodge, No.
55, praying for assistance to educate the daughter of a deceased Mason; which was reforred to the Committee on Education.
The Grand Secretary offered the following resolution : -

ORAND LODOE OF CALIFORNIA.

Resolved, That cert11in resolutions relative to SAMUEL BnA:!.'NAN, ndopted at the
Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge, in May, 1855, be and are hereby
rescinded; inaEmucb o.s o. genl'rnl regulation of this Grand Lodge exists which
renders th1't net of spPcial legislation altogether unnecessary.

Which resolution was adopted.
On motion of Bro. F. C. ANDREW, the election of Grand Officers
wos made the special order for to-monow, at 11 o'clock, A. M.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until !) o'clock, to-morrow
morning.

MORNING SESSION,

}

F7'ida9, May 15th, A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 9 o'clock, A. M., tho Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of tho sessions of
yesterday were read and approved.
Bro. A. MARTIN, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the
following additional members ns present and entitled to seats, viz. :
from

Western Star,. .. No. 2, ...... W. G WEST, Past Master.
· ·
li.,, ,
} A.H. Esnr.L1 Junior Warden;
Benicia, ........... o. 5,... W. S. 'V1L1.s, Past Master.
Parfaite Union, No. 17,. ..... B. DeNNERY, Junior Warden.
Crescent,. ........ No. 45, ...... E. MASON, Worshipful Master Rod Past Master.
St. James, ........ No. 54, ......J. W. CLAIBORNE, proxy for Junior Warden.
Calaveras,. ......No. 78,. ..... ORPHEUS S:111TII 1 Senior 'Varden.
Vesper, ........... No. 84, ...... J. G. DoLJ., Past Master and Representative.
Owen,. ........... No. - , ......GILBERT LANPHIER, Worshipful Master.
Dibble, ............ No. -, ...... W.W. W1xoN,. Senior Warden.
Pajaro, ...........No. -, ...... N. A. H1cxs, Worshipful Master.
Summit, ......... No. -, ......M. C. EDWARDS, Worshipful Master and P. M.·
•

r.

Esen,. ............lio. -,...

}

P. E. EDMONDSON, W crsbipful Master;
Jos. DEMONT, Junior Warden.
·

Mount Zion, ..... No. -, ......WM. McKEAN' 1 Worshipful Master.
St. Mark's,. ..... No. -, ......1''. L. SuLLlVAli, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Windsor, ......... No. -,. ..... W. P. YouNci, Senior Warden.

104

.TOURNAt OF PltOCEED1NdS.

[May,

Which report was received and concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
'

I

Bro. J. R. CRANDALL, from the Committee on "Dispensations and
Charters, presented the following report : To the M. •. W: •• Grand Lodge of Oalifqrnia: Your committee, to whom was referred the petitions of a constitutional number
of brethren residing respectively at Vallecito, in the county of Calaveras, and at
Meadow Valley, in the county of Phlmas, both praying for Dispensations empowering them to assemble 'respectively at the above named places, and work as legal
Lodges, respectfully report ; that they find the said petitions to be in proper form,
and that the requisite certificates and recommendations accompnny them
accordance with Masonic usages, and the requirements of this Grand Lodge.
They therefore recommend that Dispensations be issued to open Vallecito Lodge,.
at Vallecito, in Calaveras county, nnd Franklin Lodge, at Meadow Valley, in Plumas county, in accordance with .the prayer of the petitioners.
Your committee have also had referred to them the petition of certain brethren
residing in the city of Sacramento, praying for a Dispensation or Charter empowering them to form and open a new Lodge in that city, by the name of Owicord •
Lodge. Accompanying the petition 11re all the requisite certificates and rccom·
mendations, in accordance with Masonic usages and the requirements of this
Grand Lodge.
Your tommittee further report that the Charter of E. K. Kane Lod~e, No. 72,
having been destroyed by fire, a Dispensation empowering it to contmue wort
was issued by the M. ·. W:. Grand Master, which Is now returned with a petition
that a new Charter be granted to that Lodge.
Your committtee recommend the adoption of the following resolutions : RtBOlved, That a Charter be issued to Concord Lodge, No.-, to be located in
the City of Sacramento ; and that Bro. JOHN L. THOMPSON be therein named as
Master, Bro. THOMAB JOHNSON, as Senior Warden, and Bro. CHARLES L. WHmc, as
Junior Warden.
Re.solved, That a new Charter be issued to E. K. Kane Lodge, No. 72, In lieu of
that destroyed by fire, free of charge.
.All of which is respectfully submitted.
J. R. CR.\NDALLJ
J. w. H.\RVILLE,
WM. A. JANUARY,
Cbmmitta.
E. C. SOUTHWORTH, ,
Jos. DE BELL,

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the subject, your committee nre of opinion that the application of Apprentices or
Fellow Crafts for advancement, should, after they have been once rejected by
ballot, be governed by the snme principles which regulate the ballot on petitions
for initiation, as expreBBed in the 14th Section of Article X. of the Constitution
nnd which r1Jquire a probntion of one year. We therefore recommend thnt th~
prayer of tM petitioners be not granted.
Y~ur comm~tt~e hnve also examined t!1c memorial of Quitman Lodge, No. 88,
relnt1ve ton s1m1lor case. The q11estlon mvolved seems to have been fully :provided for by St1'nding Resolution No. 40 ; nnd the hmguage of that resolution
'
your committee 1mi of opinion, n~oessarily implies n second ballot.
All of which .Is respectfully submitted.
N. GREENE ConT1s,)
E.L.\NE,

in

l

Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolutions
accompnnying it wero adopted.
Bro. N. G. CURTIS, from the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence,
presented the following report: 1b the M:. W:·. Grand Lodge qf California : Your committee. to whom was referred the petition of Jone Lodge, No. SO,
praying for a Dispensation to re-ballot upon the petition of Bro. J. B. AIKINS, a
Fellow Craft of that Lodge, for the third degree of Masonry, have had the some
under consideration and respectfully beg leave to report : That they nre of opln·
ion that Dispensations should only be granted upon extraordinary occasions or
for excellent reasons. The ballot-box is the bulwark of Masonry, nnd nfter the
Lodge is closed the decision of the bnllot is final. If it were otherwise, a Lodge
might be taken by surprise, and, in the words of the old regulation, "a turbulen•
member might be imposed upon it." In the absence of any special enactment on

E. IloGARDUs,
JNO. C. BURCH,
Tuos. M. REED,

Committee.

Which report wns rccci'l'"cd and concurred in.
Bro. A. G. ADELi., from the Committco on Foreign Correspondence,
presented tho following report: To the M:. W:·.Grand Lodge of California: Your committee, to whom wns referred the memorial of certnln brethren of the
Jewish faith residing In Marysville, praying that this Grand Lodge may expreBB
some opinion relative to the recent nlleged action of the Grand Lod~c of Hnnover, by which it is declared that Mnsonry is ~trlctly n Ohriatian Institution, beg
leave to rt'port, that this body has, through its Committee on 1''oreign Correspondence, sufficiently set forth Its opinions upon thnt subject during the pnst
three years. And It ls only reiterntlng those opinions to s11y that Masonry is not
only not especially n Christian Order, but that 1t is not n religious one nt all, except in so tar as It requires n belief In tho existence and omnipotence of 11 Supreme
Being, and the observnnce of the moral lnw.
All of which ls respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ADEJ.L,
Oliairman Clim. For. Oorr_upondenu.

Which report wns received and concurred in.
Bro. GEO. JOHNSTON presented a memorial f'rom Iowa Ilill Lodge,
No. 63, oomplnining that lllinoistown Lodge, No. 51, had infringed its
jurisdiction, by conferring the degrees of Masonl'y upon persons residing ncnrcr to it than to the last named Lodgo; which was roferred
to the Committee on Grievances.
Bro. CHAS. MAns11, from the Committee on Finance nnd ·Accounts,
presented tho following roports: ·
To the M:. lV.'.Grand Lodge qf California : Your committee, to whom was referred the petition of Petaluma Lodge, No.
77, reEpectfully report that they 'bnve cnrefijlly examined the circumstancee
which hnve induced that Lodge to make an npplteation for relief to this Grand
Lodge ; aud, while it Is their opinion thn.t under no ordinary circumstances should
a subordinate Lodge nsk of this body relief from its pecuniary embarraBBment,the menns for such chnrity being in fnct drawn from other subordinate Lodges,
as little able to give perhaps as the applicnnts themselves,-yet as the circumstances in this case show n continued train of misfortunes, and inaEmuch as the request is for a remission of dues for the year A. L. 5855, to pay which further time

14

106

JOURNAL OF l'ROCEEDINOS.

[Mag,

wns granted until the present year, and ns the misfortunes of the Lodge have continued during the past year, its Hall having fallen down nncl its furniture been
destroyed,-your Vommittec have thought proper to rccommencl the adoption of
the following resolution : .
Rewlved, That the dues of Paaluma Lodge, No. 77, for the year ending Mnrch
4th, A. L. 5856, be nnd are hereby remitted.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
CHA~. MARSH,
)
THos. P. H.1.wLEY, }
Jos. TYSON,
Committu.
J. S. BLACKWELL,
A. D. PARK,

1b the M.-. W.-. Grand Loage of California: Your committee, to whom was referred the petition of Nebraska Lodge, No. 71,
asking for n l't'mission of its dues, refprctfnlly submit the following report : The petition sets forth thnt the Lodge has become cmbarraEscd hy the lr1·ction
of a new Hllll, a11d i8, in consequence, unable to mrct its linbilitic•s. Your committee clo uot deem that a sufficient reason for 1\ remission of its dues, but in consideration thereof, would recommend the ndoption of the following resolution:Resolved, Thnt Nebraska Lodge, No. 71, be granted time uniil the fourth day of
March next, for the payment of its due~.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
·
CHARI.ES MARSH,
HOMAH P. ll.1.WLEY,
J. TYSON,
Committee.
J, 8. liJ.ACKWELL,
A. D. l'ARK,
T.

1
J

To the M:. W.'. Grand Lodge of California: Your committee, to whom was referred the report of the MaEOnic Doard of Relief, of the City ot' San I<'ranciEco, beg leave to report: thnt they have read
with much plearnre nud sRti~fnction the communication of ~nid Board and
highly commend the zval nnd Muwnic rpirit which rernlted in 1he formation of
EO thorough an organization for the diFpensation of charities to distrcPBt•cl
~rother M11eo118, ~ht;i1· wid~W8 nnd orphan~._ 'l'h"Y ~rould recommcud to Loclgrs
m towns, where 1t 1s po~s11.Jle and convcment, tu lorm IL!'socintious of a similar
charucter ; and they furtl1er rccommencl to the Lodgc8 throughout the Stntc that
they "Omply with the fUl!gcstion~ contained in the Grand Master's Address having rclnt1011 to this subject.
All of which is 1·espcctfully submitted.
CHA.Ill.ER MARSH,
THOMAH l', HAWLEY,
"
Jos. Tno~,
Committee.
J. s. BJ.ACKW,ELL,

1

A. D. l' A.It¥,

J

5857.]

nt ns car.ly 11 period ns prncticnble, the Universal M11sonic Library, edited by Bro.
ROBERT MORRIS.
All of whioh is respectfully submitted.
CnAS. l\IAnsrr,
T11os. P. H.1.wLEY, . ·
Jos. TY~oi;,
Cbmmittu.
J. L. BJ.ACKWELL,
•A. D. PARK,

1
J

All which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.
On motion of Bro. E. LANF.1 so much of the vote on concurrence
with tho report of tho Committee on Dispensations and Charters, presented this morning, as related to tho is~ue of a Dispensation to open a
Lodge at Meadow Valley, in Plumns county, to be called Franklin
Lodge, was re-considered; and, on his motion, that portion of snid report was not concurred in.
Bro. J. W. CLAIBORNE, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following reports : 1b the M." W. ·.Grand Lodge qf California: Your committee, to whom was referred th11t portion of the M:. W:.Gr11nd Master's 11ddress relative to the suspension of J. J. MAY from the Mastership of Caym1a Lodge, No. 93, and to whom was 11lrn referred the papers relative to his expulsion from nil the rights and privileges of Masonry, by the subsequent action of
his Lodge, with an accompanying petition for a suepenslon of the sentence of the
Lodge 11nd n new hearing thereon, beg leave to report : - Thnt all the action
taken in this matter seems to hnvc been justly demanded by the facts. and regular
in execution. The petition for 11 new hearing upon the expulsion Is grounded
nlone upon hie failure to appenr In answer to the summons !lent him, which lays
no fault nt the door of the Lodge.
Your Committee therefore recommend the ndoption of the following resolution: Raolved, That the suspension of J. J. MAY from his office ns Mnster of Caymua
Lodge, No. 93, by the M:. W:.Grnnd Master, is approved; and thnt his subsequent expulsion by that Loclgc is affirmed.
All of which ls reepcctfully submitted.
J.1.s. W. Cumon~E, )
0. C. WHEEi.ER,
,.,__ 'tt

E. S. RuGGJ.Es,

To the M:. W.·. Grand Lodgr of California:Your committee, to whom wus referred n communicntion from Bro. RoBERT
l\fonR1s, of Kentucky. relative to the publ:cntion of the "Uuivrreal Mnso11ic
Library," respectfully report thnt thry believe it would be of great and p~rma­
ncnt advantage to the Cra!t., that every Lodge throughout this juriW.iction 1.Je the
posscsrnr qt' BO useful a collection of 1>tancla1·d llfoeonic works · and us from tho
c~mmunication Rlint to the Grauel Secretary by liro. J\101mrs, lt oppcn~s tluit ho
will pt rhaps be unnble to complete the enterprise he [hns undertaken for lack of
pecuniary me11n8, a result which, in the opmion of your committee would be
most unfortunate for the Cra1t, they recommend the ndoption of th~ following
resolut.on : Rewlved, Thnt this Grand Lodge recommend to each subordinate Lodge throughout it~ jurisdiction (if consistent with its pecuniary resources) that it purchnRe

107

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1.;vmmi ee.

GEO. JOH1'STOX,

To the M. •• W.·.&rand Lodge qf Chlifornia :Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the M:. lV. .. Gmnd MMtcr's
address relating to the affairs of ROlle'a Bar I,odge, No. 89, beg leave to report:Thnt the papers in this c11~c Ehow a petition, dated l!'ebruary 25th, 1857, requesting a UispenBlltion from the Grand Mnster to re-bnllot upon the npplicntion
of a rriected Cllndidate. This petition, for excellent reasons, wns not granted, inasmulh as facts presented to him in connection with it showed unusual freedom
in construing the mom! law of Masonry nnd the reepect due to the ballot-box.
Bro. CHARLES MARSH was instructed to visit the Lodge, and to report in regard to
this matter and to the general condition of its nffairs. This instruction was complied with, and the report mRde in pursuance thereof, under date of March 8th,
1857, concludes by saying: " ! think the lesson has been o. good one, llJld if per-

108

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

mitted to go on, I believe they will meet and perform their duties as MllSons in
unanimity a.ad brotherly love."
Your committee would therefore recommend that no furth er action be taken
in the matter, but that the whole be left to the discretion of the Grand Master as
heretofore.
All of whic~ is respectfully submitted.
JA.S. W. CLAIBORNE, }
Q, C. WHEEI.ER,

E. S. Ruoor.Es.

.

Committee.

,

GEO. JOHNSTON,

1b the M. •. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California : -

Your committee, to whom was ref.,rred the petition of Naval Lotlge, No. 87,
asking, for reasons therein presented, that the names of three individul\ls may
be eraseq from their Charter, respectfully report: that the case is uf such n •ingular character, :.nd is surroumlerl by circumstances of such serious import, that
they are induced to suggest ns the best method of relief, that t.he brethren of
said Lodge nsk for n new Charter, from which such names ns are objected to
may be excluded. They therefor offer the following resolution for adoption: Resolved, That a new Char,ter be issued to Naval Lodge, No. 87, if desired, free
of expense, save the Grand Secretary's fee.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JA.S. W, CLAIBORNE,}

0. C. WHEEi.ER,
E. S. RuGm.Es,

.

Committee.

GEO. JOHYSTOY,

To the M.-. W. •. Grand Lodge of California : Your committee, to whom was rpforred tho appeal of J. McD. Ros~, expelled
by Tuolumm Lodge, No. 8, March 21st, 1857, beg leave to report that they have
carefully examined the papers in tbut cn•e, and find the decision m:ide to be
solely and simply this: That inasmuch as the appellant received the three degree~ of MllSOnry without having paid thci.focs therefor, he is guilty of" ha\'lng
obtained money under f'nlsc pretences!" Sufficient testimony, in the opinion of
the. committee, is contained m the appeal papers, (to wit, that of the Worshipful
Master, presiding at the trial,) to show that in November, 1856. property was
placed in the hands of the first officer of the Lodge, by the appellant, sufficient
to fully meet all his indebtednes8 to that body ; from which it must be concluded
that there has been no c.lear disposition evinced to wrong the Lodge.
Your committee feel some regret at being compelled to differ from tho.a.ction
of this Lodge, when the names appearing would seem to pre-~upposo such mature judgment in Masonic jurisprudence. They do not consider it safe, howl'ver,
for the Grand Lodge to pursue a course which might seem.a protcciion of an of~
ficer in neglect of duty, nnd they cannot think otherwise than thut the sentence
which bas been p...ssed, was bused upon t.oo bRrsh a construction of the facts, inasmuch as each of the three facts of indebtedness can be argued to have accrnecl
before the accused was ma~onically responsible. They therefore recommend the
adoption of the following resolution : Re?Olved, That the decision of Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, in the case of J. McD.
RoB!', be reversed, and that Bro. Ross bci and is hereby restored to all the rights
and privileges of Masonry.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAS. w. CLAIBOmrm,}
o. c. WHBl!:LER, Commi'Itu.
E. S. RUGGLES,
GEo. JoHl!ISTol!I,

Ail whioh reports were receh·ed and concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.
The Grand Master announced that tho hour for the special order,

5857.]

109

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

being the election of' Grand Officers for the ensuing year, had arrived i
and, after a few remarks to the Grand Lodge, expressive of his grateful
appreciation of the high honor which it had thrice conferred upon him,
expressed his desire not again to be considered a candidate for any.
office in its gift.
On motion of Bro. J. J. PAPY, the thnnks of the Grand Lodge were
unanimously tendered to the Grand Master for tho zeal, fidelity and
ability with which he had discharged his duties during his long term
of office.
The Grand Master named Bros . .1. C. :Buaorr and J. W. CLAIBORNE
as tellers, and the Grand Lodge proceeded to ballot.
Bro. N. GREENE CURTIS was elected Grand Master of Masons for
the State of California.
On motion of Bro. P. W. SHEPHEARD, all members were granted
leave of absence who desired it, provided one representative of their
respective J..odges remained.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this afternoon.

Jn Qjrnn~ io~gc.
AFTERNOOS 8ESSION 1

}

Friday, May 15tli, A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock,
Master presiding.

P. M., the Grand

The election of Grand Officers was resumed ; and
Bro. CUARLEB l\IARSll was elected Deputy Grand Master, nnd
Bro. AARON D. PARK was elected Senior Grand Warden.
A ballot for Junior Grand Ward.en resulted in no choice, and tho
Grand Lodge was then called off until 7 o'clock, this evening.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

110

[May,

Jn Qiranb J.toi)ge,.
EVENING SESSION'
}
Friday, 1'tfay 15th, A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 7 o'clock, P. M., the Grand Mas·
ter presiding.
The election of Grand Officers was again resumed, and
Bro. JOHN B. BoPE was elected Junior Grand Warden;
Bro. ADDISON MARTIN was re-elected Grand Treasurer; and
Bro. ALEX. G. AnELL was re-elected Grand Secretary.

In accordance with a resolution adopted at the last Annual Commu·
nication, the following brethren were unanimously elected Trustees of
the Masonic Hall fund, viz. : - .
Dro. Jom; F. MonsE, of Teham::i • Lodge, No. 3,. ... S:icrnmen~; ·
" R..:cron E. CoLE, of Cali/OT11ia "
" 1,. ... S..in Fra~c1eco ;
" WM. H. How.I.RD, of San Josi
"
" 10, ••.. San Jose.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock, to·morrow
morning.

6857.]

111

GRAND tODOE OF CAtii'ORlUA.

1b the M.'. W:.Grand Lodge of Califomia:Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand 11fnster's nd4rcss, which alludes to the conferring of the EO called "S:de Degrees in MaEOnry ,''
have had the same under consideration, and, being fully impreF.sed with the evil
tendency of those EO called degrees, would recommend prompt nnd decisive action on the part of this Grand Lodge to diecountenance and nprchend them. To
treat the subject with further indiflerence. for the rceeon a s urged by EOmc, that
~aid degreee, being no part or parcel of leA"itimate MREonry, nre con&quently unfit subjects for MaEOnic legiElation, is, in the opinion of your committee, e1mpJ1
an unrearnnable evasion of e. question which Ehould be met and acted upon dcc11\vely. While these degrees are conferred by Muons, in Ma£onlc Lodge Roome,
nnd as MaEOnic Degrees, their toleration le virtually their endorsement ; and,
though eome of them may seem to poF&>!\S Rufficient merit to justify such tacit ep·
proval, your committee are fully pereuaded that the grrnter numl.Jcr of them nrc
worse tha n worthleEs, and most Injurious in their cou!!Cquences- tending ns they
must necesrnrily do, to dcEtroy thut ~uLlimity which we proudly aEcribe to the
time-honored degrees of Entered Apprentice, Fellow Crntt and Mastrr Mnrnn.
While your committee heartily npprove ot the remedies contcmplutcd in the
Grand Mneter'snddfess, and most cnrnestly recommend them to the consideration
of the Craft at large, they desire to see immediate action taken by this Grand
Lodge to check what they conceive to he great and growing evil; nnd in forthernnce of that desire they recommend the adoption of the following resolution : Re11olved, That the "8i1le Degrees," EO called, form no part of legitimute Maeonry, aud the conforring them liereafter within Maeonic Lodge rooms is prohibited
throughout th:e jur!Ediction.
All of which is respectfully submitted.

H. F. Wn.Lu1i1e, }
JAB. Z. KE1.1.Y,
CommiUtl.
JAMES Ar.LEN,

Which report wns received ; nnd, ofter some diseuBBion, it wns laid
oYcr for considcrntion at the next Annual Communication, nnd the com·
mittec was discharged.
Bro. J. W. CLAIBORNE, from the Committee on Grievances, pre·
Rented the following reports : -

MORNING SESSION,
}
Saturda1;, Ma!J 16th, A. L. 585i.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by tho Grand Chaplain, tho minutes of tho scssio~s of
yesterday were rend and approved.
Bro. B. DENNt>RY presented a petition from Parfaite Union J,odgc,
No. 1i, praying for a remission of its dues; which wns referred to the
Committee on Finance and Accounts.
Bro. H. F. Wu.LTAMS, from the special committee upon the subject
of " Side Degrees," presented the following report : -

To> the M:. W.·. Grand Lodge qf California: Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Master's
Addre~s relutlng to his suPpenslon of Dro. J, K. SuAFEn, from the Muter~hlp of
San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19, beg leave to n•port, that tl1ls c nsc lrne its origin in
the complaint of n Grund officer of your M:.
Docly. Thie Grand otfkcr is
not present, and your committee nre of the opinion that the open and direct nc·
tion of the Grand Lodge would be more setiHfactory to the pnrtiee complaining
than nnytbing your committee can l'!'eommend ; and they believu it will bo
equnlly satisfoctory to the accused. Although fully eensible of the propriety of
having kept the subject from the floor of' thiR body, yet upon 1leliber11te and mature reflection, they hnve at Inst concluded to oft~1· the following reEolution for
adoption:Re11olved, That two o'clock this afternooon be appointed as the hour for n hear·
Ing of' the charges agaiust liro. J. K. SHAFER, l'aet Master of San Joaquin Lodge,
No. 19.
All of which le respectfully submitted.
• JAB. W. CLAIBORNE,
O. C. Wu&Er.En,
.
E. S. RtrGGI.El!,
Cc111m1ttet.
GEO. JOHNSTON,
7b the~!:. W:. Grand Lodgt of Califomia:Your committee, to whom were referred the pnpers relative to a trial in Ophir

w..,

l

1i2

jOURNA.L or PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

Lodge, No, 33, beg leave to report that no authenticated copy ~f the proceeding11 ·
in that case has been presented to them,, and .they do not d~em l~ proper therefore
to report the party complained of. It 1s, however, a case m whtch ~barges have
been· preferred by one brother against another, and the accused bavmg been ac·
uitted, the accuser appeals from the action of the ~odge. ~~ou~h has b~en
ibown to make it seem probable that ~here were some 1rregular1ttes m the trtal,
and that prudence and watehfulness will be necessar.r to preserve ~rder and h~r­
mony in that Lodge. Your committee, therefore, -Offer the followmg resolution
for adoption : . .
RelOlved, TbrLt the attention of the M.'. W.-. G~and Master be .mv~ted. to t?o affairs of Ophir Lodge, No. 33; and that, should 1t ~eem proper ID bts dts~retto? .to
order a new trial iu the matters rLlluded to, !l.B there seems to )le a suffic1o~t dtv1eion of sentiment amon.,. the members of that Lodge to greatly embarrass its present Master it is sugg;sted that be issue a co~mission to some Master or l'nst
Master in that vicinity to preside on such occaS1on.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAS. W. CLAIBORNE,}
0. WHEELER,
Committe1.
E. S. RuGor.Es,
GEO. JOHNSTOY.

c.

Both which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolu·
tions accompanying them were adopted.
Bro. T. ·M. REED, from the special committee to whom was referred
that portion of the Grand Master's Address relative to his ar.rest of the
Charter of San Francisco Lodge, N:o. 7, and the accompanying papers,
presented a report, embodying a statement* of the facts in that case,
to which all the committee assented, though they did not agree upon
the conclusion to be arrived at. A majority presented the following
recommendation : We recommend that the whole subject of ~be difficulties in Sf!n .francjsco Lodge,
No 7 be acted upon in open Grand Lodge, m such manner as ID its wisdom may
be de~m~d advisable, and that the committee be discharged from its further consideration.
Taos. M. REED, }
EDGAR BOGA!IDUS,
E. $. RUGGLES,

Commit/u.

A minority of the committee offered the following resolution : Rt30lvec1, Tho.t the Charter of San Francisco Lodge, No. 7, be restored.
·
CHAS. MARSH,
l Committee.
GEo. JoHN!ITON, f

The report was received and concurred in ; and, pending the discussion of the recommendation and resolution accompanying it, the Grand
JJodge was called off until 2 o:clock this afternoon.
•Ordered not to be printed. Soe Evenlog Sesalon, May 10th, A. L.6867.- [A. O. A.,Oa. Sao.]

6857.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

us

Jn QDranh Jrohgc.
AFTERNOON SESSION,
}
Saturda!h Ma!! 16th, A. L. 5857.
The Grand J,odge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Grand Master presiding.
Bro. GEo. JOHNSTON presented a communication from Iowa · Hat
Lodge, No. 63, relative to the case of J . T. HILL, referred to it at the
last Communication ; which, upon his motion, was referred to a special
committee of three.
The Grand Muster named ns such committee Oii the Communication from Iowa Hill Lodge,...

}

Bro. R. F. Knott,
" H. F. Williams,
'' '.!.'. P. Hawley.

The subject pending when the Grand Lodge was called off this morning, being the consideration of the propositions offered by the Special
Committee on the affairs of San Francisco Lodge, No. 7, was then
taken up.
Bro. Jos. ISAACS moved that the whole matter be referred to the
Masters of the several Lodges in the City of San Francisco; which motion did not prevail.
Bro. H. F. WILLIA.Ms offered the following as a substitute for the
resolution presented by the minority of the committee : -

Resolv~, That ~be Chartl)r. of San Francisco Lodge, No. 7, be restored to that
Lodge, w1tb the direction to 1ta Ma~ter that he summon its members again to try
Bro. 1:· KEr.r.Y : and t.ho.t the M:.
Grand Master be requested to be present at
the trial.

w...

Whil'lh substitute was adopted, the whole matter was thus disposed of
and the committee was discharged.
'
The. special order for this hour, being the examination of the charges agamst Bro. J . K. SHAFER, P. M. of San Joaqu1'.n Lodge, No. 19,
was then taken up; and after the papers in that case had been read
and the statement of Bro. SHAFER heard, the following resolution was
adopted:-

~olved, Th~t while this Grand Lodge approves the action of the G<and Ma~­
ter m suspendmg Bro. J. K. Suu'ER from the exercise of hie duties a.a Master of

15

114

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19, inasmuch as no proper testimony has been adduced in
support of the charges here presented against him, it is ordered that the case be
dismissed.

Bro. N. G. CURTIS offered the following resolution: R~v~, That the regulations for trials be referred to a committee for revieion

and amendment.

Which resolution was adopted, and th'e regulations were referred to
the Committee on Masonic J urispmdence.

•

Bro. CHAS. MARSH, from the Committee on Finance and Accounts,
presented the following repol'.ts '.To thB M:. W: . Grand Lod/JB of California: Your committee, to whom was referred the petition of Parfaite Union Lodge,
No. 17, for a remission of its dues, respectfully report that the only reason assigned for such prayer is poverty, which is not, in the opinion of your committee, sufficient to warrant the Grand Lodge in granting it; but in view of the
present embarrassed condition of that Lodge, they recommend the adoption of
Lhe following resolution:Resolved, That Parfaite Union Lod~e, No. 17, be granted until the fourth day
of March next, for the payment of its dues for the year ending March fourth ,
1856.
CHARLES MARSH. }
•rHos. P. HAwLE·Y ,
Jos. TYSON,
Committee.
J. S. BLACKWEU,,
A. D. PARK,
7b the M:. lV:. Grand LOOge of California : Your committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address relative to Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, with sundry papers having reference
thereto, after giving the subject that careful attention which it demanded, respectfully report that, from the peculiar and exposed situation of that Lodge, It
being like the outpost of a far-off fronti e·r, and from its situation at a potnt
which mo.y well be called the great half-way house of the broad Pacific - the
ocean oasis to so many weary mariners - it is necessary for it, in fact it is compelled, to collect .an~ di~~n~ ~ n;iuch greater ~mou~t for charity, probably,
than any Lodge withm this Jurisdiction; many of its recipients doubtless hailing
from our own shores, thus showing a bright reflection on the broo.d ocean mirror
of the most ennobling attribute of our time-honored l!'raternity. Under ihese
considerations, your committee offer the following resolution: Re8olved, That the dues of Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, for the year ending March
4th, 1857, be and are hereby remitted.
All of which is respectfully submitted .
CHARLES MARSH, }
THOS. P. HAWLEY,
J os. TY80N,
CommiJtt»
J. S. IlI.ACKWELL,
A. D. P.uiK,
'lb the M. lV. Grand LOOge of 0Jlif()1'7lia:: Your committee, to whom was referred the Annual Report of the R.·. w:-.
Grand Secretary, respectfully report that they have carefully examined the
books, accounts··a nd vouchers of tbat officer, and find that the total amount received by him and po.id to the Grand Trensurer during the year ending the
fourth of March, 1857, was ....................................... $7861 00
and that he has drawn upon the Grand Treasurer during the year, in accorilance
with resolutions of the Grand Lodge, orders amounting to the ~11m of... $6235 91l

6857.)

GRAND LODGE OF

115

OAL~FORNIA.

The committee take great pleasure in expressing their satisfaction not · only
with th e neat, correct and well-ordered manner in which the books ~nd papers
of tbe G~·and Lodge. have been kept by .the G~and Secretary, but with the nbillty nn.d mdustry whwh have charncter1zed his conduct of its correspondence
1111d his genera.I management of all its affairs appertaining to his office. The la~
hors of that officer ~ave greatly increased within the past two ;rears, and during
the last year, especially,,they hay-e been very onerous1 -requiring not only the
hceto'Yal of nearly all his own time, but all that of his Assistant- nnd as your
oommittee are of tbe opinion that the amount of compensation which he receiv"es
I" not at all p~oportioned to the amou~t and vnlue of the services he performs,
they propose, m nnother report herewith presented, to increase his so.la.ry for
the present year.
All of which is respectfully submitted .
CHARLES MARSH,

l

THos.P. HAWLEY,
Jos. TYSON,
Committee.
J. S. BLACKWELL,
A. D. PARK,
J

1b the JJI. W. Grand Lodge of California : , Your committee, to whom was referred the Annul\l Report of the R:. W:
<~rand Treasurer, find, after a thorough examination of the books and vouchers
of that officer, that o.t the close of the Inst fiscal year there remained in the
treasury a balance of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . $ 479 32
And that he has received from the Grand Secretary during th~
year ending March fourth , 1857, the sum of.. .. ... . ......... . 7861 00

----

Making a total amount to the debit of the Grand Treasurer, of ...... $8340 32

----

Ho has disbursed, upon warrants properly drawn by the Grand Secretnry, the sum of ............... .. ........ .. ............ , .. .. $6235 99
And upon nn order of the Grand Master, to pay the expenses of the ·
Committtce on Work, which assembled m Sacramento, in July
last, the sum of...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . 352 51)
Making the total amotmt of disbursements, to his credit,. . ......... . . $65ii849
And leaving in the treasury, on the fourth day of Mo..rch last a balance of. ............................•.............. .'......
1751 83
There is to be deducted from this amount the sum of .......• . .•.... : 283 34
Doing a balance, due and undrawn, of the salary of the Grand Secretary for the past year, which will leave remaining in the treasury
the 8Um of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $l468 49
l~or all the foregoing, satisfactory- o.ccounts and vouchers hnve been submitted
11nd your committee take pleasure m acknowledging the correct and business-lik~
ml\nne: in which the Grand Treasurer has discharged his official duties.
It will be seen that the e~pe°:ses of the .P~st y~ar are within the amounts nppro·
prlated at th7 last Commumcat1on, and it is evident that the officers having in
obA.rge the d1sburse!11ent of the fonds of the Grand Lodge, have practiced the most
rigid econo~y possible. In proof of this, witness the diminution of expenses as
compared with those of the preceding year. They reached the sum of $9,490 08 ;
while the total arp.ount expenclcd, and to be expended, for the year just past is
hut $6,871 83-11 difference of :\i2,618 25,- ittfording the best commentary upon
tbo carefulness of the officer upon whose warmnts the disbursements were made espto!ally when. it is recollected how largely the business of his office has incre~ed.
\our committee recommend that, of the $1,468 49 remaining in the Treasury
tho eum of $1000, be placed in ~he hands of. the Trustees of the :Masonic. Hali
li'und. for the p~rposes set forth m the resolution upon that subject adopted nt
Ibo last Communication, as soon as they shall have given the bonds therein pre'1Grlhed ; and that the excess of $468 49 be tranl!ferred to the general account for

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

116

the present year. They further recommend that the following amounts be appropriated for the expenses of the present year, and that the expenditures for account
of the Grand Lodge be confined within those sums, viz : For expenses of Grand Officers, and of the Grand Master's office,. . . . $600 00 1
For printing and contln <>'ent expenses of the Grand Secretary's office,. 2500 00
For salary of the Grand"'Secretary,........ .. .............. . . . . . . . 2400 00
I•'or salary of the Grand Treasurer,.............................. . .
100 00
For salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary,...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
400 00
For services of the Grand Tyler,.. . .. ... ..... ... .. ... ..... .. .... ..
100 00
Making a total amount appropriated, of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . $6000 00
All of which is respectfully submitted.
CHARLES· l\IARSII,
THOS. P. HAWLEY,
Jos. TYSON,
J. S. ;BLACKWELL,

'j

Committee.

A. D. PARK,

All which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolu·
tions accompanying them were adopted.

5857.]

117

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

the work of this jurisdiction, presented a report upon that subject,
which was received.
Bro. N. G. CURTIS, from the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence,
presented the following report : To the JJf.·. W.-. Grand Lodge of Califurnia: Your committee, to whom was referred the r ules relative to trials, for revision
and amendment, have discharged the duty assigned them, and r espectfully beg
lenve.to submit the following amendments for ndoption: Stnkc out all nfter the word " Lodge" in the first subdivision of the fourth rule
and i~sert the following: - " 11nd the. vote thereon shall be by ballot."
'
Strike out t he Inst sentence of the sixth rule, and insert the following: - "In
all cns~s a v?te. of two-thirds shall be necessary to find a verdict of guilty,
and n hke majority shall be necessary to expel or suspend ; but a majority shall
be sufficient to reprimand or censure."
N. GREEN!': CTJRTIS,
E. LANE,
E. BoG.ARDUB,
Committee.
J. C. Buncrr,

l

T. llf. REED,

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 7 o'clock this evening.

W"hich report was received and concurred in, and the rules were
amended as therein proposed.
Bro. C11As. MARSH offered the following resolutions: -

ln Qiran~ Jtoogc.
EVENING SESSION,
'}·
Saturday, May 16th, .A. L. 5857. ·
The Grand Lodge was calJed on at 7 o'clock, P. l\I., the Grand
~foster presiding.

On motion of Bro. C. M.Aasn, it, was ordered that the report of the
special committee upon the matter of San Francisco Lodge, No. 7, be
omitted in the printed proceedings, with the exception of the recommendation and resolution with which it terminates.

Resolt•ed, That thfa Grund Lo1lp;c recommends to the Lodges and Masons within
its jurisdiction the lie11.utiful republication of its proceedings from its orgnnization
to and including the year 1854, prepared and published by the Grand Secretary ·
nnd strongly urges the propriety of liberal subscriptions for 11 work so useful, that
he may be reimbursed for the great expense be has incurred in Its preparation.
Hesofved, That the Grund Secretary be instructed to have three hundred copies of
the prmted proceedings of 1855 and 1856, now on hand, bound in the same mnnner as the volumes published by himself i and that he be authorized to dispose of
them, for account of the Grand Lodge, at suoli price as shall be sufficient to cover
the cost thereof.

Which resolutions were adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock, A. M.,
on Monday morning.

Bro. J. B. HE.NDERSON offered the following resolution : RMoT,ved, That the Grand Secretary be instructed to subscribe for a copy of the
Masonic Library edited by Bro. ROBERT MORRIS, of Kentucky ; and that he draw
upon the Grand 'Treasurer for the amount of the cost thereof:

Which resolution, after being amended by substituting for " a copy,"
the words " two copies," was adopted.
The Grand M:iSter, from the special committee appointed at the last
Communication to assemble in SacramentO for the purpose of revising

..

Jn Qjrnno Jtobgc.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Monday, May 18th, .A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was calJed on at 10 o'clock, A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.

118

[.May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDING!:!.

After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
I
Saturday last were .read and approved.
Bro. N. G. Cull.TIS, from the Committee on :Masonic Jurisprudence,
presented the following reports : To the M:. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California: .
Your committee, to whom were referred certain portions of the ~rnn~ M:i.ster 's
address relative to the qualifications of Masters of Lodges, - a mod1ficat10n ~f t~e
resolution concerning citizens of California made Masons abroa~,- :l?d the Jurisdiction of subordinate Lodges-have carefully and deliberately mvest1gate.d thoire
subjects. They very much regret the necessity which forces the~ to arriyc at a
different conclusion than that entertained by the Gra,nd Master, m reference to
the qualific::itions of a Master. They do not conce!ve it to be absolutely necessary that the Master of a Lodge should have previously ser~ed as a Warden, ~1though this seems to be the doctrine of many enlightened Masons, for wh.ose opmions they entertain great respect. It sometimes happens tha.t ~ ~arde'!- IS electe.d
who is destitute of the requisite qualifications to act as a presulmg offi~er, and It
would seem injudicious to force him upon the Lodge ano!her year as I~B ~aster,
thus depriving its members of the right of exercising their own free will m the
.
.
selection of their rulers.
In reference to citizens of California, made Masons while. abroad, your co1!1mtttee are of opinion that the action heretofore taken by this ~rand Lodge IS too
stringent, and is calculated to punish those who h~ve i;omm.1tted '!-0 .w~on.g, as
the initiate should not be held responsible for any v10lat10n of our JUl'lsd1ct1onal
rights by foreign Masonic bodies. They would therefore recommend that the 50th
standing resoliition be so amended as to read as fol~ows :~ . .
"RrMlved, That this Grand Lodge having recogmzed t~e prmc1ple that no 01~e
shall be initiated into the mysteries of our Order, except rn the I,odge neare.~t h18
place of residence, (unleBB by.tb_e p~op~rpermi~si?n).an.d havi'!-g by an establish~
regulation, taken care to av?ul mfrmgmg ~h~ Jur1sdict10n11l rights of others, will
not tolerate that its own be mvaded ; and 1t 1s therefore ordered that no ~odge
8 ubordinate to the Grand Lodge of California, shall admit t? membersh!P any
person who, being at the time a resident of this State, has received,_ o~ c.la~s to.
have received the degrees of Masonry from any source beyond the JUri8!11ct1on of
this Grand Lodge without proper permission from the Lodge nearest his place of
residence, until he shall have paid into the hand.~ of the Secretary of the Lod~e
to which be applies for membership, the full amount cha.rged by that Lodge for
conferring the degrees, less the sum paid by him to the Lodge in which he re.
ceived them."
In reference to the jurisdiction of subordinate Lodges, your comuutte~ ar.c of
opinion that distance should not govern that in all caseH, but that apphcn,t10ns
should be made to the nearest and most accessible Lodge.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
N. GREENE CURTIS, 1
E. LANE,
i
E. BOGARDUS,
Committee.
J.C. BuROH,

1

•

THOS. M. REED,

To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California: Your committee, to whom was referred the commu~ication fro~ Jlawf!iian L.od.g~.
No 21 at Honolulu in the Hawaiian Islands, relative to the difficulties ex1Rtmg
betwe~n that Lodge'and the so called Lodge Le Progd& de L'Ocean~, at that pl~ce,
have bad the same under consideration, and lJeg leave to submit the followmg
report :-Onr brethren of Hawaiian Lodge, feel!ng ?aturally enough that the po·
sition in which they are placed in regard to tbe~r friends and fell~w-townsmen of
the body above named, 1s disagreeable an~ pa~nful, are mos~ desirous t_hat some
means may be devised to res~or~ a barmomous mte~course with th?se w1.tb whom
their social relations are so mt1mate. Under the influence of this feeling, they

6857 .J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNiA.

119

have permitted their neighborly impulses to overcome their 1.fasonicjudgm.ent,
and they again urgently request further action at our hands upon this subJectaction which, to meet their l,lllplied desires, must be of 11 character totally different
from that had at our last Annual Communication, for their benefit. In fact, it is
complaiued that the conclusions then arrived at had the undesigned effect of rendering their difficulties still more intricate, rather than that of affording them relief. If this bas unhappily been the case. our brethren should attribute it more
to an over-zeal on their own part, which led them to represent their grievances in
a strong light to the Grand Lodge, than to inattention on the part of that body.
'fbe resolution adopted at the last Communicat ion was, in our opinion, a proper
l\nd necessary one ; and if the facts are as they then appeared to be from all the
information which the Grand Lodge bad in its possession, so far from repealing or
modifying that resolution we should rather feel called upon to require Hawaiian
Lodge to observe a, strict obedience to it, even if in so doing all those who have
hitherto shown themselves to be "good and true" should ~bandon them and
"worship at altars erected to ftilse Gods." No Mason should hold Masonic communication with any person until he is satisfied fully and beyond a doubt that
that person is 11 brother : nor should one Lodge commune with another until it
has assurance that that other bas been properly established and has a legal exist1mcc .; and a brother who visits a Lodge styling itself as one of Masons, without
ueing satisfied of its lawful authority to meet and work, does that which shows a
total disregard of those teachings which he received at the very threshold of our
lnsti tu tion.
Yct whilst we would by every guard preserve the fraternity within this jurisdiction from imposition, still would we be equally ca,reful that none who can establish
at claim to our fraternal consideration should in the slightest degree be. treated
with 11isrespect. With these views then, we would be most happy to know that
the organization styled " L e Progrla de l'Or.eani.e" WM really what it professes to
be, a legal Masonic organization under any jurisdiction recognized by us. That
pure and holy Masonic Hpirit which is ever to be found in a true Masonic Lodge,
induces J,odges properly established to afford not only to separate organizations
of known leipi.1 existence, evidence of its recognized authority to work, but even
deigns to s~tisfy a single member of th11t separate organization, should be desire
it. Now as our brethren of Jlawaiian Lodge ·have, or Hhould bll.ve been ever
ready to afford tc any nod all who desired it, the proofs of' their legal existence
ns a Lodge, so with that feeling or spirit of fraternal reciprocity which pervades
all l\fasouic intercourse, 'a similar favor should be extended to our brethren of'
Hawaiian Lodge by "Le Progrla de l'Oe«znic." It is clearly the duty of our liretbren of Jlawaiian Lodge to satisfy themselves of the legt\l existence of any alleged
Masonic body before the;1: enter its portals; and even had not the resolution of
last year been adopted, if a member of 11ny Lodge within this Jurisdiction should
knowingly sit iu a Lodge styled :Masonic, but not having .a legal existence, no
Mason could doulJt his unfitnes.~ to sit thereafter in a lawful Lodge. If then
l\Iasons-those who originally were entitled to all the benefits nnd privileges of
Masonry - in grasping at the shadow have lost the substance; if, in their great
desir e for clmnge and novelty they have forgotten their first lessons and have
attempted an organizatiQn without authoritr; and if, under these circumstances,
others will persist in r ecognizing and holdmg communication · with them, they
must suffer the consequences of their own willfulncBS, antl meet the penalty of
their disobedience to our laws.
If Le Progrla de L 'Oceanie possci;scs the proofs of her legal existence and does
not afford them to visitors or neighboring Lodges, the prganizatio)l is undeserving
of 11ny courtesy or consideration at our bands. If there be no such proofs, the
self-styled Lodge is unlawful1 and must of course receive our condemnation.
What we have said of the proofs of a legal existence we wish to be understood
ns meaning the proofs that there was an emanation from a Masonic organization
of known und recognized authority ; an adherence to that authority; and a continued, constant, and unceasing existence both in the supreme and subordinat e
organizations. So if Le Progrls de L'Owinie has not these proofs, our brethren of
Hawaiian Lodge must discard her and her misguided members.
Steps have lJeen taken by our R:. W.·. Grand Secretary to ascertain from France
the facts in regard to the Lodge Le Progrb de L' Oe«znie, ancl until we are fully in·

120

jOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[.May,

formed upon this point, we feel it a duty we owe the great brotherhood of Masons
to insist upon an observance of the resolution adopted at the last Annual Commu·
nication of this Grand Lodge. Under this resolution we nre of opinion that whenever Hawaiian Lodge is satisfied that Le .Progres de L'Oceanie is acting under
"lawful Masonic a11thority," communication with it may be established; and they
may satisfy themselves of this fact in whatever way to them may seem most
proper.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
N. GREENE CURTIS, }
E. LANE,
E. Boo..umus,
Committee.
JNO. C.•BURCH,
THOS. M. REED,

Both which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolution accompanying them was ad9pted.
Bro. H. F. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on By-Laws, presented
the following report : 1b the M:. W.·. Grand Lodge of Oalif(Yf'nia:Your committee, to whom were referred the By-Laws of the Subordinate Lodges, have had the same under consideration, and beg leave to report, that they
have carefully examined all those submitted to them, and approve them, with
the exception of those named below-in which they recommend the following
nmendments : Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8.-To so amend Art. V., that it may conform to the 42d
Standing Resolution of the Grand Lodge; and, at the request of the Lodge, to so
amend Art. VI., as to fix the fees for the degrees at thirty, twenty, and twentyfive dollars, respectively.
Mo/Clllumne Lodge, No. 31.-To so amend Article VIII., at the request of the
Lodge, as to fix the monthly dues at one dollar.
St. John's Lodge, No. 37.-To amend Sec. 1, of Art. II., at the request of the
Lodge, by striking out the word "November," and inserting the word "September;" to so amend Seo. 1, of Art. 4, that it may conform to Sec. 1, of Art. X, of
the Constitution ; and to amend Sec. 2, of Art. IV., at the request of the Lodge,
by striking out the word " six," and inserting the word " three."
SafJT'amento Lodge, No. 40.-To f>O amend Article I., that it may conform to the
40th Standing Resolution of the Grand Lodge.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42.-Tci' J3trike out Secs. 10 and 21, of Art. II., which
are deemed improper.
Rough and &ady Lodge, No. 52.-To strike out Art. XII., as it conflicts with
the established Regulations for Trials.
Union Lodge, No. 58.-To reduce the affiliation fee, at the request of the Lodge,
from ten to five dollars.
Natuma Lodge, No. 64.-To so amend Sec. 1, of Art. II., that it may conform to
Sec. 1, Art. X., of the Constitution ; and to append the following worcls to Art XL :
" subject to the approval of. the Grand Lodge."
Quitman Lodge, No. 88.-To strike out Art. XII, as it conflicts with the es~ab­
lished Regulations for Trials.
Your committee would recommend that St. James Lodge, No. 54; Enterpri11
Lodge, No. 70 ; Mount Zion Lodge, U. D. t and St. Mark'a Lodge, U. D., be instructed to adopt the Uniform Code of By-Laws, aR recommended by the Grand
Lodge at its last Communication, instead of those they now present, which contain many objectionable features. Your committee are gratified to find that full
three fourths of the Lodges under this jurisdiction have already adopted said
Code.
H. F . WILLIA.MS,
All of which is r espectfully submitted.
J. M. HAVENS,
J. K. SMITH,
s. F. BENJAMIN,
E. W. POTrER,

6857.)

121

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Which report was received und concurred in.
Bro. J. W. CLAIBORNE, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report : 1b the JJ/:. W.-. Grand Lodge of California : Your'committee, to whom was referred the appeal of EDWARD CnowE, whowne
euspended from the rights and privileges of Masonry by Minnesota Lodge, NJ. G7,
on the twelfth of June, 1856, beg leave to report, that the party uppealing complains that he has been denied a tmnscript ot' the proceedings in h;s clll!e; and es
the committee are of the belief that he has been sufllciently dealt with, upon teEtlmony neither c<>nclusive in its weight (as showing evil intent) 11or of the bett
kind and quality obtainabb, they r ecommend the ndoption of the following reEo·
1ution:Resolvcd, That EDWARD CROWE be and is hereby restored to the rights nnd prh-ileges of Masonry.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
J AS. W. CLAIBORNE,}
'
0. C. WHEELE!t,
Co 'tt
E. S. Ruo<JLES,
mmi ee.
GEO. JOHNSTON.

The report was received, nnd Bro. J. A. JACKSON moved thnt tho
following be adopted 08 a substitute for the resolution presented: Resolved, That the decision of Minnesota Lodge, No. 67, in the case of EDWARD
CaowE, be reversed, and that n new trial thereof' be ordered in that Lodge.

Which substitute was adopted, and the report of the committee, os
thus amended, was concurred in.
Bro. J. W. CLAIBORNE, from the sama committee, n.lso presented the
following reports : -

w:-.

1b the N.-.
Grand Lodg,e qf California: Your committee, to wh~m was referred the petlt!o:i. of D. N. AI.LEN, of Jou:a
llill Lodge, No. 63, asking a new hearing upon the proceedings by which he wl\8
expelled t'rom the rights and privileges ot' Masonry on the 12th ot' August, 1856,
beg leave to report. tllat the p11pers iu this ca~ arc well prepared and ~how proper
carJ in its conduct. Two opportunitie~ have alrendy been given the petitioner
to npp~ar, and a third is demanded upon fncts which could not be con~trucd dil'.fercutly even in the event of a new trial. Your committee therefore recommend
the adoption of the following reRolution: Resolved, That the expulsion of D. N. Ar..LEN from the rights and pr:v:l~ges of
Masonry by Iowa llill Lodge, No. 63, be and is hereby uffirmcd.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
·
J As. W. Cr.AIBORNE, }
0. C. WHEEi.ER,
Committ:e.

E. S. RuooLEI!,

1b the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:Your committee, to whom was referred the following cases, viz. : - those of
JOHN M: GARDNE1t, expelled by Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18, IJecembcr 31st,
1856; PHILIP SrnEr..ITZ, expdled by Diamond Lodge, No. W, Jannnry 24th, 1857;
J. A. Bow DEN, expelled by lliram Lodge, No. 43, April 29th, 1857 i JAcoe 'l'IEHI,,
cxpdled by Amador Lodge, No. 65, Morch 17th, 18.37 ; and WILLIAM TEKU8CH, E. A.,
expelkd Ly St. Luuia Lodge, No. 86, Februnry 14th, 1857; beg I., ave to report,
that as 110 appeals have been taken thercou, they be and are hereby lach and e very
of them aftirmed.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAB. W. CLAIBORNE, l
0. C. WHEELlm,
Com 'tt
E. S. RUGGLt:s,
mi Cl.
GEo. JoRNsnN,

J

10

122

JOURNAL OF l'ROCEEDINGS.

[Map,

Both which reports were received and concurred in, and the i·csolution accompanying them were adopted.
'The Grand Secretary presented the following report of moneys received by him for account of the Grand Lodge from March 5th to May
16th, A. L. 5857, inclusive: ·
For D!Jponaatirma to o-pen new Lodges.
Apra 7. From Windsor Lodge, Grand Lodge Fee, ...... . ......... .. $ 75 00
" • Jilranklin
"
"
"
" ••..•• , ........... 75 00
May 6.
"
Valle:ito
"
"
" • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • 75 00
"
9.
$225 00

For due1 oftM ye:r,r ending March 4th.for Chartered Lodges, and May ht, f0'1' Lodgfl
under DillJieTUllltion.
March 5. From Geo. Washington Lodge, No. 62, in full,. . .. . . ... : .. .. . s 42 00
75 00
5.
" Michigan Oity
"
"
47, on nccouut., . .. . . . ... .
Trinit!f
"
"
27, in full ,. ............ . 111 00
" 6.6. "" Hiram
57
00
account, ........ . .
" 6. " Wisconsin Hill "" "" 743,4, on
ii6 00
in full, ............. .
"
57 00
"
"
5, " '~ ... ...••••.••.
"" 11.6. •'•· Benicia
43 00
E. K. Kane
"
"
72, on account, ......... .
52 00
"
l t.
" Iowa Hill
''
"
03, "
"
. ......• . .
82 00
"
12.
" Jfariposa
"
24, in full, ......... . ... .
58 00
"
13.
" Morning Sta1·
"
"
68, " " •• ~ ...••.•....
48 00
"
13.
" San .Tvatjuin
"
"
19, on nccount, .....••..•
85 00
"
13.
" Jefferson
"
"
97, in full, •. .•.•..... .. .
''
16.
" Arcata
"
U. D.
on account, ....... . . • 35 00
58 00
"
19. " Mokelumne
"
No. 31, in full, •....••.......
"
19.
" Go'l<len Gate
"
"
30, ., '' •••...... , .•.. 176 00
32 00
"
19. " Oampo Seco
"
" 100, " " .............•
70 00
19. " -st. John's
"
"
37, ou account, . . . ....•••
95 00
"
20.
" San Ji!ranC1·sco
"
"
7, in full, ... • .•........
40 00
"
23.
" Eureka
"
"
16, on nccount, .....•....
79 00
"
24.
" L08 Angelea
"
42, "
"
•.•.•.....
63 00
"
25. " Howard
"
" 96, in full, ... . ....... .. .
"
25.
" Culifornia
"
"
1, " " .. . . .•.•• .•.• . 232 00
51 00
"
26.
" Gold Hill
"
''
32. on account, ......... .
45 00
"
26.
" Union
"
"
58, "
"
.. . .. .•. • .
64 00
26.
" Gravel Range
"
59, ."
"
••• ..... ..
"
57 00
~'
27 ~
~' Minnesota
'"
"
67, "
''
.... . ...•.
43 00
.April 1. " Oreacent
"
"
45, in full, ............. .
53 00
u
L
'~ Rough Sf Ready
"
"
52, " " ....•.•.......
7.
" Western Star
"
'~
2, "
......•....•.. 169 00
47 00
"
"
33, on account,. ...•.....
" 7.7. ''" Ophir
70 00
Orei,dental
22, in fnl1 1 • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
" 9; •• Humboldt
39 00
"
"
79, on account, ....••.••.
·'·' 11.
53 00
•· Mt. Hennon
u
"
94, "
'•
.....•....
34 00
"
13.
" · Santa Cruz
"
"
SS, "
.... .. ... .
33 00
"
14.
" San Diego
"
"
35, "
"
64 00
16.
" Suisun
"
•' 55, in full,. ... :::::: : : : :
51 00
''
18. H ll~e':!JBar
"
•'
89, '' " ... •.. . •. .• ...
" 20. " Owen
"
U. D,
" " ....•. . ....... 121 00
"
20. ." Ltharu:m
"
No. 49, "
..... . ... . ... . 108 00
46 00
"
23.
" Henry Clay
"
"
95, " " ............. .
•· n. " ·Siskiyou
"
" 105, " " .............. . 35 00
25 50
25.
" Qu01•t2bUr!J
"
"
98, " " • , •,,, , , . .. , , ,
Amount carried forward, .............................. $2854 5a
• ll1'J/'11111&tloo DDt is1uo>1, aud f•• to bo rufuQdetl.

(A.O • .&.., Gr'il SeD.)

~867.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

128

Amount brought forward, ................................. $2854 50
April 27. " Texa.i
Lodge, No. 46, on Bccouot, .... .... . ,
34 00
' :: 27. " Lerington
"
'• 104, in full,..............
31 0.0
You;:; ,
"
"
12, " " . . . • . . . . . . • . . .
7fi 00
.
" 8!. mark•
"
U. D.
" " , • • . . • . . • . • . . • 16 00
May
1.
" Oilwerru
"
No. 78, " " • • • • • • . . . . . . . .
51 50
"
2.
" Beo.r Mountain "
" 76, " " . . . . . . • • . . . . . .
36 00
"
4.
" Arcata
"
U. D. bBlance in full,. . • . • • . .
50 00
"
6.
" Sn.ma Clara
"
No. 34, on account,..........
47 00
:'.
6.
" Yesper
"
"
84, in full,. ••.•..... , . . .
4.0 00
6.
" Mt. Jefferson
"
U. D.
" " •. . . •• ••. . . . . .
40 00
Pajaro
"
U. D.
" '' • . . . • . • . . . • . . .
2u 00
" 9.6. "" San
Jos~
"
No. JO, " " . . . . . . . • . . . • . • 78 00
"" 11.
" Cblumbia
"
"
28, on BCCOUnt,.......... 114 00
"
11.
" Forbe!town
"
" 50, in fn ll. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
44 00
"
11.
" Plumas
"
''
60, in full for 1856 and '57, 154 00
::
12.
" Yubt.1
"
"
39, in full,.............. ./i9 00
!~da
'·
"
13, " " • • . . . . • • . . . . . . 103 00
.
' ~ :vro
"
"
73, " " . • . . • • . . . . • • . •
33 00

" ig· "

" g· ;•
"
"
"
"
::
"
;;

"
"
"
;;
"
"
::
"
"
'·

::
"
"
"
"
"
"
::

"
::

~~·

12.

.

l 2.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.
12.

~~:

13.
13.
13.
13.
13.
13.
13.
13.
13.
14.
14.

"
"

:.adison

"

"

soreJt
.
t. Jame•
" Hiram
" Quitman
:: Risiflfl Star
Santa Ro•a
" Iowa Hill
" Petulwma
" St. Louis
" Mt. Moriah
" Mrtn:r.anita
" Eden
" Na.toma
" Orcv.ille
" Mt. Zion .

"
"
"
"
::

"
"
"
"
::

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

::
"
"
"
"
,,
"
"
"
"
"
"

15.
15.

"
"
"

15.
.15.
15.

88, in full,..............
83, ''. " . .. . . . . . . . .. . .
57, on account,. . . • • • • • . .
63, 1.mlauce in full,. . . . . • .
77, In full,..............
86, "

"

. . . . . •. . . . . . . .

44- " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

E. K. Kane

"

Diamorul
Tuolumne
}fountain Shade
Mountain Forest
Gold Hill

"
"
"
"
"

102, on nccount,. . . . • • • • • •
U. D. in full ,.. .............
No. 64, " " . . . . . • . • • • • • • • •
" 103, " " . . . . . . . . . . • . . • .
U. D.
" " . . . . . . . . . .. . ..
No. 72, balance in full,...... .
"
29, In full,..............
"
8, " " . . . . . . • • . • . . •
"
18, on nocount...........
"
75, in full, .. . . • . . . . . . . . .
"
32, " " • • . . • • • • • • . . . .

Ione
Butte
Mountain
Jlarysville

::
"
"
"
"

No. 80, in full,..............
•'
36 "
" • • • • • • • • • • •• • •
"
s2' " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
"

Georgetown
Tempi~
Illinoiitown
Folsom
Acacia
Clay

"
"
"
"
"
"

gli~orado
Martine~

" ~!·• "" '?;;vmru
ind801'

"
"

23, " " . . . . . • • . . . • . . .
66, " " . . . . . . . • • . . . . .
5~, " " • • . . . • • . . . . . . •
43, on account,...... . . . .

" EnterprillfJ
" Santa Cruz
" Amador
" Summit
" Corinthian

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

115 00
122 00

45 00

4 00
107 00
56 00
86 00
1 00

6~ 00

74 00
190 00
67 00
38 00
48 50
95 00
37 00
ti 00
53 00
93 00
102 00
77 00
37 00

~. D~G, ~~ ~~c~~~t,:::::: ::'.: ~~ gg
"

9; " " .. .. .... ... ...

41, " " . . . . . . . . • . . . . .
25, " " . . . . • . . . • • • • • •
14, " " , . . . . . . . . • • • • •
51, ·' " . . . . . . . . . • . . . .
U. D.
" " . . . . . . • . .. . . . .
No. 92, " " • . • . • • • . . . . . . .
" 101, " " . . . . . . . . . • • • • •
·~ 93, " " . .. , . . . . . • . . . .
U. D.
" " . . . . •. . . . . . . . .
No. 70, " " . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
"
38, bnfance in full, .......
"
65, in full,..............
U. D. . " " .. . . . . .. ... • ..

33 00
50 00
119 50
74 00
58 00

"
"
"

103 00
58 00
44 00

No. 69, on Bccount,. . . . . . . . . .

23 00
56 00
28 oo
21 oo
18 oo
47 00
11 00
49 00
32 00
49 00
$6388 00

124

JOURNAL OF PllOCEEDINOS.

~arch 16.

.i\pr:I 20.
"

29.
6.
12.

May

"
"
"
"
"
"
i•

12.
12.
13.

13.'

13.
13.

[Ma9,

For Oharter1 ordered at this Communication.
From Arcata Lodge, U. D.,
Grand Lodge Fee, . ..... ,,, $50 OJ
50 00
" Owen
"
'' "
"
50 00
" St.Mark'a, "
·' "
"
"
50 00
" Mt. Jefferson"
" "
"
"
50 00
' ~ FA.en,
"
" "
"
"
" Mt. Zion, "
" "
u
,,
50 00
1
50 00
•
" Ohioo,
"
" "
"
50 OJ
" •Folsom,
"
'' "
"
"
"
50 00
" Pajaro,
"
'~ "
"
"
50 00
" Wi"ndsor,
"
" "
''
50 00
'' Summit,
"
" "
"

..

$550 00

5857.]

125

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

"Resolved, That it is recommended that the funds thus subscribed be tranfllJlltted to the R.·. W:. Grand Secretary, and that the elective Grand Officers of this
Grand Lodge shall constitute a committee for the preparation and presentation
of the testimonial thus to be procured."
1
Which resolutions were adopted.
Bro. J. S. BLACKWELL offered the following resolution: I'.e11olved, That the subordinate Lodges be required to instruct one of their representatives hereafter to remain in attendance upon the Grand Lodge until the
close of its CommuniCations.

Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. II. L. DA VIS offered the following resolution : -

RECAPITULATION.
To May 16, Cl\Sh received for Dispensations, ................ . ... .
''
·•

"
"

16,
16,

"
"

''
"

"
"

$225 00
6,388 00
550 00
Charters,. ....................... .

Dues, ........................... .

Total amount received,. . .. .......................... .. ...... $7,163 00
Which sum has been paid over to the Grand Treasurer, as will be seem from his
receifts herewith presented.
Al of which is respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ABELL, Grand Se.,.,.etary.

Resolved, That the thanks of this Grand Lodge be and arc hereby tendered to
Bro. RICHARD DALE for his kindncllll in providing nu organ for its use during the.
present communication.
Which retiolution was adopted, nnd the Grand Secretary was instructed to send a copy thereof to Bro. DALE.
Tho Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this afternoon.

The report was received, ant! with the Secretary's books, was referred

to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
On motion of' Bro. J. A. JACKSON, it. was ordered that the installation of the Grand Officers shall take place at 7 o'clock this evening.
Bro. N. G. CURTIS offered the following resolution: -

Resolved That the 49tb Standing Resolution be amended by 11triking out nil
itfter the ~ord "ask," in the second line thereof, and inserting the following: "and which no Lod"'e should refuse unless good and sufficient objection to such
admission is macla by a regular member ; in which case the Master, in his discretion, may admit or reject the visitor."
Bro. T. M. REED moved to amend the rrsolution so that it should
declare that the right to visit is absolute; which motion did not prevail,
and the resolution, as presented, was then adopted.
Bro. J. F. MORSE offered the following resolutions: -

"Resolved That the Representatives of the subordinate Lodges be requested,
upon their ~eturn to their respective homes, to suggest to their brethren the. propriety of raising 11 fund by private subscription for the purpose of procurmg a
s1tito.ble testimonial for presentation to our esteemed Past Grand Master, Wr1.1.rAM
II. How ARD, as a mark of their appreciation of his services as Grand Master during
the past three year8:
•No Chartor ordered, and f•o to bo refunded. (A. 0. A. Or"d, Sac'y.)

1!n ~rnni) ioi)gc.
AFTERNOO".i SESSION,

}

.llonday, ltfa!J l8tli, A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., tho Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. T. P. HAWLEY, from the tlom01ittee on Finance and Accounts,
presented the following report : -

1b the 111.-. W.-.Grand Lodge of Oalif<>rnia: Your committee, to whom wa~ referred the supplemental report of tho R:. W:-.
Grand S2cretary, submit the following:The receipts by the Grand Secretary from March fifth to May fifteenth, 1857,
inclusive, from all sources, have been $7163, which amount bas been duly paid to
ihe Grand Treasurer, as appears by his receipts.
All of which is respectt'nlly submitted.
THos. P. HAWLEY, }
Cl
.
Jos. TYSON,
J. L. BucKWELL,
ommiltce.
A. D. PA.m.::,
Which report was received a.nd concurred in.
Bro. L. C. OWEN, from the Committee on Returns of Lodges, pre11onted the following report : - .

126

.TOUllNAL OJ' PROCEEDIN08.

[May,

1h ~ M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:The Committee on Returns of Lodges respectfully report that they have examined and corrected the returns of the following named Lodges, and find their
dues to be as below set forth : Amount brought forward .. $4342 00
California - - - No. 1,. 'I· •• $232 00
2,..... 169 00 Geo. W<Uhington, No. 62,.... . 42 00
Wt111D-n &ar,
Iowa
Hill,
"
63,. . . . . 53 00
s, ..... 113 00
Tthama,
" 6,.....
" 64:,. • . • . 56 00
54 00 Natoma,
Benicia,
"
"
65,. . .. .
49 00
95 00 A11U1llor,
San l'ra1iciaco,
" 'J,.....
u
66,.. . . . 122 00
8,..... 93 00 FCJTest,
Tuolumne,
"
" 67, . . . .. . 68 00
9,..... 74 00 Ninnuoto,
Maryllllilk,
"
68,... . . 57 00
10,..... 78 00 Morning Star,
San Jou,
"
Corinthian,
"
69, . . . . .
50 00
Yount,
'· 12,..... 75 00 Enterpriae,
'' 70,.. .. . . 47 00
13,..... 103 00
Nevada,
"
" 71,. . . . . 51 00
56 00 Nebraaka,
Tt111pk,
" 14,.....
" 72,..... 49 oo
Eu'l'tka,
16,..... 21 00 E. K. KtJne,
" 73, . . . .
32 00
17,..... 41 00 T'gro,
Parfaite UnU>n, "
74,..... 52 00
18,..... 113 00 Wiacon.!'in Hill, "
Mountain Shade, "
75,. . . . .
77 00
&nJoaquin,
50 00 Mountain Fwm, "
" 19,.....
76,.....
35 00
20,..... 127 00 Bear MoUntain, "
Wiuhington,
"
Pdaluma,
"
77,
.
.
.
.
.
65 00
21,.....
64
00
Hawaiian,
" 22, : . . . 70 00 Oal.avera&,
"
78, . . . . . 5 3 0 0
Occitkntal,
"
"
79,. . . . . 45 oo
Madison,
115 00 Humboldt,,
" 23,.....
"
80,. . . . .
33 00
24,. .. . 80 00 Ione,
Maripooa,
"
81,.....
26 00
Gtorgetown,
25, ..... 103 00 Yolo,
"
"
82, . . • . .
38 00
26,..... 88 00 Mountain,
El Dwado,
"
83,.....
56 00
Triniiy,
27,..... 109 00 Riting Star,
" 28,.....
"
84, .. . . . 40 00
ruumbia,
123 00 Ve.!per,
Dia111Q11d,
85,. . . . . 51 00
29,..... 53 00 Indian Diggings, "
" 30,.....
"
86,. . ...
74 00
176 00 St. Louis,
Gal.den Ga.U,
"
"
87,. . . . .
27 00
.Hokelumne,
31,..... 58 00 Naval,
"
"
88,.. . . . 107 00
Gold HiU,
32,..... 37 00 · Quitman,
"
1
Ro3e
s
Bar,
89,.
.
.
.
.
51
00
Ophir,
53 00
" 33,.....
"
90,.....
34 00
34,..... 45 00 Polar Star,
Sama <Jlara,
"
H
92,, , . , ,
56 00
San Diego,
35 00 .Acacia,
" 35,.....
93,.....
21 00
Bui.le,
36,..... 50 00 Caymus,
"
94,..... 56 00
St. John't,
37,..... 73 00 Mount Hmrwn, "
"
95, . . ..
34 oo
38,..... 53 00 Henry Olay,
Santa Oruz,
"
96,. .1. • .
63 00
39,..... 59 00 Howard,
Yuba,
''
"
97,. . . . .
82 00
40,..... 45 00 ·Jefferson,
Sacramento,
"
" 98,. . . . . 41 00
41,..... 58 00 Qu.artzhurg,
Martinez,
"
"
99~.....
84 00
Lo& Angelea,
" 42,..... 82 00 La <haTJtg~,
" 100,. . . . . 32 00
43,..... 67 00 Ca.mpo Seco,
Hiram,
"
" 101,.... . 28 00
44,.... . 190 00 Clny,
Mount Mwiah,
"
" 102,. . . . . 67 00
45,..... 43 00 Manzanita,
Orucmt,
"
·
Orooilk,
" 103, .. : . .
95 00
.Tenu,
't
46,..... 54 00
.Lexington,
" 104,. . . . . 31 00
Michigan Oity,
"
47,.".. 82 00
" 105,.. , , . 35 00
Lebanon, ·
"
49, ..... 108 00 Si&kiyou,
U. D.
85 00
Fw~s1oum,
'' 50,..... 44 00 Arcata,
40 00
51,..... 43 00 ·Mount J<;fferton, "
JUinomoum,
"
"
121 00
52,..... 53 00 Owen,
Raugh and !Uady, "
"
60 00
St. Jamu,
"
54,..... 45 00 Dibble,
"
26 00
55,;....
64 00 Pajaro,
Suuun,
"
"
35 oo
56,... •. 77 00 Chi.co,
Volcano,
"
"
32 00
" 57,..... 86 00 Summit,
Santa Roaa,
"
38 00
Union,
" 58,..... 53 00 Eden.
"
37 00
59,..... 68 00 .Moitnt Zion,
Gravel Range,
"
"
16 00
60,..... 73 00 St. Mark's,
Plumaa,
"
"
23 00
61,..... 27 00 Fo~om,
Live Oak,
"
Winda01',
18 oo
Amount carried forward, .. $4342 00
--Ma.king the total a.mouiit of dues, .............................. $7106 00

"

"

6867.)

127

GRAND LODGE OI' O.A.LIJ'OB.N1:A.

No returns have been received ftom North Star Lodge.
All of which is respectfully submitted.

L. c. OWEN, )
J.
B. HEWSON, Cbmmittee.
A. MCNEILL,

.1

A. HANNA.,

;s, B. BU:U:B,
Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. T. A. TnoMAS, from the Committee on Education 1 presented
the following report: To the ltl •. W:.Grand Lodge of California:The Committee on Education, to whom was referred the petition of Suimn
Lodge, No. 55, for assistance in the education of the children of the widow of our
la.te Bro. RuoFF, of Quiney Lodge, No. I, lllinois, re8pectfully report that it is not
In the province of the Grand Lodge to make such appropriations a.s ILl!ked for in
the petition; but believing the request for assistance should be responded to by
the fraternity at large, they are induced to offer the following resolution: Ruolved, That the Masters of the several subordinate Lodges in this juriFdictlon be and arc hereby requested to present the case of Bro. RuoFF's children to
their respective Lodges, with the request that they forward to Sui8'Un Lodge the
11m of live dollars each for the education of said children, provided they consider
the call reasonable.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
T. A. THOMAS, Chairman.

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. J. W. CLAIBORNE1 from the Committee on Grievances1 pre1ontcd the following report : 7b the M:. W. ·.Grand Lodge of Californ.i a: Your committee, to whom was referred the memorial from i<fWa Hill Lodge, No.
13, stating that Illinoi8tOID1I Lodge, No. 51, had initiated, passed and raised certain
Individuals within the first mentioned jurisdiction, and asking for reparation beg
l~avc to report the following resolution : '
Resolved, That it is the opinion of this Grand Lodge that a Lodge makes a just
drmand in claiming the fees accruing upon the initiation, p1188ing, and raising by
11uother Lodge of individuals whose residence relatively to the Lodge complainlllg, is within a point midwa.y between the two.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
J.a.e. W. CL..uBoK:>"JC, }
0. C. WHEELER,
Committte.
E. S. RUGGLES,

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. R. F. KNoTT1 from the special committee to whom wns referred
oortnin action of Iowa Hill Lodge, presented the following report : 7b the M:. lV:.Grand Lodge of California: Your committee, to whoI11 was refe1Ted the act.ion of Iowa Hill Lodge No. 63
r•l11tive to the trial of Bro. J, T. HILL- which trinl was ordered by th~ Grand
I odge, at its last annual Communication, beg leave to report: That they have
1 ¥an1ined the records of Iowa Hill Lodl!'e, No. 63, and find that the trial was con4uctcd in accordance with the Regulations of .this Grand Lodge. They ..thereJon
1·~cowwend the following resolution:.
.

128

JOURNAL

or PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

Resolved, That the proceedings of Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63, In the case of Bro.
J. T. HILr., be approved.
All of which is respectfully submitted.

6857.]

The AI." W. ·• N. GREENE CURTIS, Grand :Master, announced the
following Committee -

·

R. F. KNOTT,
l r! 'ti
Tnos. P. H..1.wLEY, f ..,ommi · e~.

The standing committees, having disposed of all the business referred
to them, were severally discharged, and the Grand Lodge was then
called off untill 7 o'clock, this evening.

He also announced that Charters had been issued to the following
Lodges during this Communication, viz. : - to
Arcata - - Lodge, No. 106,. . . . . . at Union, . ..... . .... . Humboldt County.
Mount Jefferson
"
u 107, ...... " GarrOte, ........... Tuolumne
"
Owen
"
" 108, ...... u Johnson's Bar, .. ... Siskiyou
,.
Dibble
" 109,. .. ... " Alpha, ... . . ... .. . Nevada
Pajaro
"
" 110,. ... . . " Watsonvllle, .... . .. Santa Cruz "
OMco
"
'' 111, ...... " Chico, . . .. ........ Butte
"
Summit
"
" 112 •. . .. . . "Knight's Ferry, .. . . Sao Joaquin '•
Eden
''
" 113,. . . . . . " San Leandro, . .... . Alameda
"
Mount Zion
"
" 114, ...... " Grizzly Flat, ...... El Dorado
St. A/ark's
" 115, ...... " Fiddletown, . . ..... Amador
"
Windsor
"
" 116, . .. ~ . . " 'Yindsor, . . .. . . ... . Sierra
Ooncord
" 117,. . .... " Sacramento, .... ... Sacramento "

The busi.ness being'll completed, after prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the M.-.
Grand Lodge of Cnliforniii. was closed in '.2\mplt

w..,

Jn Q5rnn~ Jl:o~gt,.
EVENING SESSION,

f

Bro. .Alex. G. Abell,
" Geo. J. Hobe,
011 "Foreign Oorr~pondence:.......... ..
'' R. F. Knott,
'' E. 8. Ruggles,
l " Jos. Isaacs.

Which report was received and concurred in, the resolution accompanying it was adopted, and the committee was discharged.
Bro. N. G. CURTIS, from the Committee on the Lnnd Donation by
Bro. WINN, presented a verbal report, and, on his motion, the commit·
tee was continued.

129

GRANl> LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Jorm.
}

N. GREEN I~ CUR'.l'IS, Grand Maater.

Monday, .Moy 18th, .A. L. 5857.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 7 o'clock, P. l\1., the Grand Master presiding,

ALEX. G. ABELL,

Gmnd Secreta.ru.

The Grand Master elect announced the following appointments for
the ensuing Masonic year, viz: AR Grand Chaplain, ...... Bro. O. C. WHEELER,.. of Tehama
Lodge, No. 3;
" Gmnd Orator,...... . . " J. W.C1~UBORNE, . " St. Jqmes
"
" 54;
" Asst. Grand Secretary, " L. C. OWEN! ••••• " Golden Gate
"
" 30;
" Grand Marshal,. . . . . • " T. M. REED..... . " Acacia
"
" 92 ·
'' Grand Standard Bearer, " E. Boo..1.RDUS, . .. "Indian Digging• "
"
"GrandSwordBearer, .. " Jos. TYSONto· · ·· " St,.John'1
"
" 37;
"GrandBibleBearer, ... " .G.C.YouNT, .... "Caymua
"
'" 93;
" Senior Grand Deacon, . " Jos. DE BELJ..,. . . " .Yuba
"
" 39;
c. Junior Grand Deacon,. " B.NEwMAx, •..•. "Petaluma
"
" 77;
" G dSt ards.
l
"
E. LANE, ....... "Jeffer8an
"
•· 97;
1 • ••• f "
ran
ew
J.S. Bl.ACXWELL, '' Jfinneaota
"
" 67;
" Grand Organist, • ..• . . " II. L. DAVIS..... "All. Moriah
"
" 44;
" Grand Pursuivant, .... " F. C. ANDREW, .. "San Joo~uin
"
" 19;
" Grand Tyler, ... , . . . . . " O. D. Cn..1.FEI!:, . . . " Tehama
"
" 3.

85;

The hour appointed for the installation of the Grand Officers hawing
arrived, that ceremony was performed by the M." W." Grand :Master,
WILLIAM H. !lowARD.

STAT .E JIIENT
Of receipta by the Grand Secret.ary.from the 17th day qf May, to the 10th rlay qf June,
A. L. 5857, inclu6ivt.
•
May 18. From Pol.ar Star Lodge, No. 90, on acc't of dues to 4th March, '57, $32 00
" "
" Dibble
"
U. D., ch'r fee 11nd dueR to 1st l\Iay, '57, J 10 oo
" "
" Sacramento "
No. 40, dues in full to 4th March, 1857,. 45 00
" North Star "
" 91, dues on acc't to 4th March, 18.57, 57 00
June 2.- "
La Grange "
" !19, on acc't of dues to 4th March, '57, 80 00
5. " Minnesota
"
" G7, bal. of dues to 4th March, 18.57,. 11 00
'' 10. " Indian Di,g9i11,q3 " 85, on acc't of dues to 4th March, '57, 44 00
"
lVaahingtan
" 20, on acc't of dues to 4th March, '57, 117 00
1
'
Ooncord
" 117, for charter fee, ...•.•••..••... 125 00

17

$621 00

130

[.Na9,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

STATEMENT
Of balance4 to the debit and credit of Lodges on the 10th day of June, A. L. 5857, as per
Books of the Grand Secretary.
Tehama
Benicia
Nevada
Temple
Eureka
Parfaite Union
Mountain Shade
San Joaquin
Washington
J1!ariposa
Trinity
Columbia
Ophir
Santa Clara
San Diego
Butte

St. John's
Los Angele&
Hiram
Texa~

J}fichigan City
lllinoistown
Volcano
Santa Rosa
Union
Gravel Range
Live Oak
Morning Star
Cvrimhian
Nebraska
Tyro

Wiaconsin Hill
Bear Mountain
Humboldt
Yolo
Indian Diggings
Naval
Polar St.ar
*North Star
~fount Hermon
Henry Olay
Jefferson
La Grange
.Manzanita
Oroville
Chico

11857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

131

AMENDMENTS
ADOPTED AT THE COMMUNICATION IN MAY, A.L. 5857.

DR.
3, ....• , ................... $113 00
5, . ....................... .

CR.

Lodge,. No.
"
''

1 00

m' 'J'IIE CONSTITUTIOX.

"

13, •••..•......•......•.•...
14, ................. . . . .... .
16,. ..... ' ......... . . . . .... .
17, ................. . ...... .
18, ........................ .
19, ........................ .

2 00

The 14th Section of A1·ticle X. wa~ stricken out, and the following was adopted
In its stead :-

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

4 00
lll 50

11 00
2 00
20, ........................ . 137 50
2 00
2 00

24, ........................ .

27, ........................ .
28, ........................ .
33, ........................ .
34,. ...................... .

",,
"
"
"

35, ............ . ........... .
36, ........................ .

"

51

9 00
ti 00

5 00
2 00

42, ........................ .
43,. ....................... .

10 00

46, .....•...................
47,. ....•.............. . ....

~o

oo

7 00

"

"
,,

58,. ....................... .
59, ........................ .
61, ........................ .

,,

68,. ....................... .
69, .....•...................
71, ...... ·'·.................
73,. ....................... .

74, .•........ . ..............
76, .......... . ..........•...
79, ........................ .

56 60

i ·oo
6 25
1 00

6 00

,,
"

87, ............. .......... .
90, ........ ............... .

"
",,
"
"

94, ........•••••............
95, ........................ .
97,. ....................... .

3 00

99,. ...... . .... . ........... .

81 00
3 00
2 00
13 00

26 00
7 00
26 60
2 00

91,. ...•...•.........•......

111, ........................ .

()lo'

1 00

81, ............••...........
85, ...... . ................. .

''

RuLE 4. The question, " Is the accused guilty or not guilty 1" shall be distinctly put
lo each member· of the Lodge, and the vote thereon shall be by ballot.
Ru LE 6. A sentence of expulsion shall not take effect until confirmed by this Grand
l,odge: but shall operate as a suspension of the delinquent in the meantime. In all cases
tt vote of two-thirds shall be necessary to find a verdict of guilty, and a like vote shall
he required to suspend or expel; but a majority shall be sufficient to reprimand or

<·ensure.

1 00

"

102, .... . ................... .
103, ........................ .

a oo

The fourth aud sixth rules of' Section 1, were amendx<l so as to read as follows: -

8 00
4 00
27 00

"

''
"

SECTION 14. -On the re.jectiou of an applicant for initiation or any of the degrees, by
1111y Lodge under the Jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, the Secretary of said Lodge shall
IC.rthwith notify the Grand Secretary thereof, under the seal of the Lodge, whose duty it
•hall be once m every two months to forward to each of the subordinate Lodges in ihis
lurisdiction, a notice of all such rejected applicants; and no Lod_ge shall be allowed to
'receive a petition from such rejected applicant within a less per10d than one year from
the date of such rejection.
OF 'flIE llEGUI.Ai'IONS FOR TRl.l.I.8.

1 60
3 00
5 00

37, .....•........•..........

0(::::::::::::::::::::::::
77 00
57, ........................ .
65 00

"
"
"

3 00

2 00

12 00
3 00

•The returns of Nmh Star Lodge, before reported as not received, have since arrived.

THE STANDING RESOLUTIONS.

'l'he JDth aml 50th Standing' Uesolutions were so amemle1l as to read as fol·

lows:49. Resolved, That the right (so called) to visit Masonically, is not an a.b•olme ri;rht,
but is a favor which every lawful Mason in good standinir is entitled to ask, and wnich
Lodge should refuse unless good and sufficient objection to such admission is made
hy a regular member; in which case the Master, in his discretion, may admit or exclude
the visitor.
50. Resolved, That this Grand Lodge having recognized the principle that no one
•hall be initiated into the mysteries of our Order, except in the Lodge nearest his place of
residence (unless t>y the proper permission); and having, by an established regulation,
tnken care to avoid infringing the jurisdictional right$ of others, will not tolerate that its
own be invaded; and it is tlierefore ordered that no Lodge subordinate to the Grand
l,odgc of California, shall admit to membership any person who, being at the time a re·
Rident of this State, bas received, or chims to have received the degrees of Masonry
from any sourr.e beyond the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, without proper permission
from the Lodge nearest his plaee of residence, until he shall have paid into the hands of
the Secretary of the Lodge to which he applies for membership, the full amount charged
by that Lodge for conferring the degrees, less the sum paid by him to the Lodge in winch
he received them.
110

The following additional resolution was adopted : 71. Resolved, That the subordinate Lodges be required to instruct one of their repre•
•entatives hereafter to remain in attendance upon the Grand Lodge until the close of its
Communications.

'

182

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

5857.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

133

ARTICLE III.
m' I1'S POWERS AND AUTHORITY.

PROPOSED NE'1V CONSTITUTION
01' THE

M.·.

w.·. GRAND LODGE
OF

THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA;
SUBMITTED AT THE COMMUNICATION IN MAY, A. L. 5857,
~n))' orlYmlY to ilt 1,llt!nb))' for tf)e Cnforma:tlon of tbt i.olYgt.5.

PART

I-

O/ the Organizati?n of the Grand Lodge.
ARTICLE I.
OF IT8 TITLE AND BEAL.
SECTION 1. This Grantl Lodge shall be entitled" The Most Worshipful Grand
Lodge of Free aud Accepted Masons of the State of California."
SEC. 2. It shall have a Se11l, bearing such devices and inscriptions as h11ve
heretofore been, or may hereafter be determined ; which shall be affixed to all
Charters, Dispensations, Diplomas, Certific11tes, or other documents issned by or
under its authority.
ARTICLE II.
01' ITS MEMBEns AND THEIR QliAUPICATIONS.
SECTION 1. This Grand Lodge shall be composed of 11 Grantl Master, (whose
address shall be Most Worshipful,) a Deputy Grand Master, a Senior Gl'flnd
Warden, and a Junior Grand Warden, (whose 11ddresses shall severally be Right
Worshipful,) 11 Grand Treasurer, and 11 Grand Secretary, (whose nddresses shall
severally be Very Worshipful,) a Grand Chaplain, (whose address shall be Most
RevPrend,) a Grand Orator, a Grand Marshal, n Grand Standard Boarer, a
Grand Sword Bearer, a Grand Bible Bearer, a Senior Grand De11con, a Junior
Grand Deacon. two Grand Stewards, 11 Grand Organist, a Grand Pursuiv11nt,
and a Grand Tyler, (whose addresses shall severally be Worshipful,).and such
other officers as it may hereafter design11te; together with nil the Past 6rand
Officers and Past Masters of this jurisdiction, antl the Masters and Wardens, for
the time, of the several chartered and duly constituted Lodges, or the representatives thereof, duly eleded as directed in Art. II. Part VII.
SEC. 2. Every officer or member of the Grand Lodge must be a member of
some Lodge within its jurisdiction ; and with the cessation of such membership
shall cease bis office and membership in the Grand Lodge.
SEc. 3. No member of the Grand Lodge shall be represented therein by proxy.

SECTION I. The Grand Lodge is the Supreme Masonic Power and Authority
In this State, possessing all the attributes of sovereignty and government, legislative, executive, and judicial, - limited only by a strict adherence to the
Ancient Landmarks of the Order, and to 'the provisions of its own Constitution
and Regulations.
SEc. 2. Its Legislative powers extend to every case of legislation, not expressly delegated by itself to the Lodges ; and the Constitutions and Regulations,
which it has an inalienable right to adopt and promulgate at its own convenience, and to alter, amend, or repeal at its own pleasure, under the limitations
therein imposed, are final and binding upon all Lodges and Masons within its
,
jurisdiction, until so ~ltered or repealed by its own act.
SEc. 3. Its Executive powers include the granting of' Dispensations and Charters
to all Lodp;t18 within this State, and to Lodges in other territory where no Grand
Lodge exists ; the revocation or suspension thereof; the issuing of special
11iApensat.ions for all purposes permitted by any of the provisions of this ConAtitution ; and the exercise, generally, of e.ll snch authority as may be necessary
to carry its own legislation into complete effect.
SEc. 4. Its Judicial powers are of two kinds; 1st - Original - Including the
decision of nll controversies between any of the Lodges, or between one of them
1111d a member or members of another, or between members of different Lodges ;
nnd the enforcement of discipline upon its own members and upon the Lodges
under its jurisdiction ; and 2d -- Appellate - Embracing the revision of all
matters of contfoversy or discipline, proper for Me.sonic investigation, which
may have fLrisen in any of the Lodges, and over which it has not retained original jurisdiction.
ARTICLE IV.
01' ITS CO:l!MUNIC.~TIONR.

SECTION 1. The Grand Lodge shall bolcl its Annual Communications for the
transaction of its regular busines.~. at the City of Sacramento, commencing on
the second Tuesday of August, 11t to o'clock, A. M.
SEc. 2. Special Communications may be ordered by the Grand Mast1!r when·
1•ver, in his opinion, the welf11re of the Fraternity sh11ll require it.
SEc. 3. Specilll Communications shall be ordered by the Gmnd Master, upon
11n application therefor in writing, setting forth the causes which demand it,
f\nd signed by the Masters of at least five chartered Lodges.
SEc. 4. Every order for 11 Special Communication shall designate the object
t.11ereof, so far as is proper to 1.Je written, und shall 1.Jc issued at least thirty days
before the day named for meeting ; and no business shall be transacted thereat,
other than that for which the Grand Lodge was especially convened.
SEc. 5. '.l'he oiflccrs or representatives of at least fifteen chartered Lodges
Mhe.11 be present in order to transact any business in the Grancl Lodge, either
11t an Annual or Special Communication ; hut upon occasions of ceremony only,
tbe Grand ]\foster or his duly authorized representative, with a sufficient numher of brethren to fill the Ht.ations ancl places, may at any time open the Grnnd
Lodge, and perform thll reremonies for which it Wt\S convened.
ARTICLE V.
OF ELECTIONS AND

APPOINTMENT~.

SECTION 1. The Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master, Graml Wardens, Grand
Treasurer and Grand Secretary, sh11ll be elected by ballot at each Annual Communication. upon the fifth day thereof; Ahall be in~tallcd before its close ; and
Nhall hold their rwipective offices until the next Annual Communication, and
until their successors shall have been elected and installed. A majority of 1111
the votes cast shall be necPssary for an election.
8Ec. 2. All other Grand Officers shall be appointed by the Gr~nd Master
rlect, after his installation, 11t each Annual Communication ; shall be properly

134

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

invested befol'e the close thereof; and shall hold their respective offices during
his will and pleasure.
SEC. 3. Whenever a vaoancy shall occur in any office of the Grand Lodge, the
Grand Master shall have power to fill the same by appointment ; which appointment shall be valid until the succeeding annual election and installation i and
the officer so appointed shall be charged with all the duties and responsibilities
of one regularly elected.
ARTICLE VI.
01' VOTING AND REPRESEXTATION.

SECTION 1. All questions in the Grand Lodge (except an election of officers)
shall be decided by a show of hands ; unless, before the announcement of the
result thereof, three members shall demand the yea.a and nays, in which ca.se the
vote shall thus be taken.
SEc. 2. Each Grand Officer present, whether elected or appointed, (except the
Grand Tyler,) shall be entitled to one vote ; and each elective Pa.st Grand Officer present shall be entitled to one vote.
SEC. 3. Each Lodge represented shall be entitled to thl'ec votes for any number of members les.~ than fifty, and to one additional vote for every twenty-five
additional members ; and the number of votes to which each Lodge may thus he
entitl~d, shnll be determined at every Communication, by its last Annual Return.
SEC. 4. The Past Ma~ters of each Lodge, collectively, shall be entitled to one
vote.
SEC. 5. No Grand Officer, Past Grand Officer, or Past Master, voting or participating in a vote in either of those capacities, shall vote or participate in a
vote in any other of them; but either of such members may, as Master, Warden,
or representative of a Lodge, cast also the vote or votes to which sueh position
shall entitle him.
SEC. 6. When a Lodge shall be fully represented by its Master and Wardens,
and shall be entitled only to three votes, each of those officers may cast one vote.
SEC. 7. When a Lodge shall be fully represented by its Master and Wardens,
~nd shall be entitled to more than three votes, the additional vote or votes may
he cast by those officers in the order of their rank; as thus- if the Lodge have
foar votes, the Master may cast two; if it have five, the Senior Warden may
also cast two; if six, the Junior Wnrden may also cast two; and thus again for
any number of votes to which the Lodge may be entitled.
. SEC. 8. When a Lodge shall be represented by only two of its proper officer!!,
if the number of votes to which it is entitled be even, each officer m1Ly cast an
equal number ; if odd, the officer highest in rank may cast the odd vote.
SEc. 9. When a Lodge shall be represented by only one of. its proper officers,
or by a representative, such officer or repre11entative may cast nil the votes to
which it is entitled.
S11:c. 1O. In all cases of IL tie vote, except votes by ballot, the Grand Master,
in addition to his proper vote, may have the casting vote.
.
ARTICLE VII.
OF CJO~IMITl'EES AND TH~l!R

DU'l'IE~.

SECTI0:-1 1. The following regular committees, to consist of live members each.
shall be appointed by the Grand Master at each Annual Communication, viz.: A
Committee on Credentials, 011 Returns, on Grievances, on Finance, on By-Laws,
on Charters, on Jurisprudence, and on Correspondence.
SEc. 2. Special commitiees may also be appointed by the Gmnd :M11ster,
whenever it may be deemed necessary by the Grand Lodge.
SEC. 3. No business of any kind shall be finrLlly acted upon, unt.il after rtifer~
ence to, and report upon by a committee, nnlcs.~ by unanimous consent ; an<l no
appropriation of money shall be made •mtil after reference to, and report upon,
hy the Committee on Finance.
.
ARTICLE VIII.
01'

ITS

REVE:-IUES.

SECTI0:-1 1. 'l'he revenue of the Grand Lodge ehall be derived from the following sources: 1st-From fees charged for Dispensations, Charters, Diplomas, ,

6851.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNtA.

135

11nd other documents issued under it~ authority ; 2d- From contributions levied
upon the Lodges, which shall always be equal and uniform, in proportion to
their membership, admissions and degrees conferred; and, 3d - From the funds.
clues, and proceeds of all property of dissolved Lodges within its jurisdiction.
Sec.,2. The following shall be the fees ch.arged as above, exclusive of those pro\' hied m Sec. 3, Art. IY., Part II., to be paid to the Grand Secretary: lBt- For
11 Dispensation to open a new Lodge, the sum of seventy-five dollars; 2d - For a
Obarter to perpetuate a Lodge, the sum of fifty dolll\r!I ; 3d- For a Dispensation •
to hold an election of an officer or officers at a time other than that named in
Hee. 1, Art. I., Part IV., the sum of ten dollar!! ; 4th- For a Dispensation to ballot f~r a candidate for the dei>rees without the reference to a committee proviM~d m Sec. 2, Art. III., Part III., the Rum of ten dollars ; and 5th- !<'or a DiJlluma of any kind, the sum of two dollars, except when issued for the widow or
1•hlldren of a deceased Mason, in which case there shall be no charge : but no
IJ!ploma shall issue except upon the presentation to the Grand Secretary of a
cwrtificate from the Secretary of a Lodge, in the form prescribed in Art. III.,
l'nrt VII.
SEC. 3. In 110 cal!C shall eith~r of the foregoing documents be issued until the
f111•s therefor shall have been p~id to the Grand Secretary.
SEc. 4. The following contributionK shall be paid ns annual dues, by each of
the Lodges. whether chartered or under dispensation, at the time and in the manner provided in Sec. 4, Art. II., Part Ill. ; 1st- For each degree it shall have
uonferred during the year, the surh of two dollars ; 2d -For each member it shall
have received by affiliation during the year, the sum of one dollarl· 3d-For each
M11Bter Mason borne upon its roll at the date of its Annual Re urn the sum of
unc dollar ; and the Grand Lodge may levy, in addition to the above ~uch special
'
uoutributions n.s in its judgment may be required.
SEc. 5. In ~ase of the diss.olutlon of a Lodge, the Grand Secretary, or some
h1•otber by him · duly authorized, shall at once proceed to receive its funds on
hand, collect its outstanding dues, and sell all itR jewels, furniture, nnd property
uf every kiml, in Ruch manner as shall ~eem to him most judicious ; and he shall
place the proceeds thereof, after the payment of necessary expenses, among the
l\cml.~ of thn Grand Lodge.

P .A. R T

:r:r_

Of tlie Grand Officers, their Powers and Duties.
ARTICLE I.
01' TLU: URA.'11> MAS'flo:lt.

SECTION 1. The Grand Master, during the interval between the CommunlcationR

or the Grand Lodge, may exercise all its executive powers ns defined in Sec. 3

Art. III., Part I., and none otherR. By virtue of these, authority iR given him'
!Mt -;- To grant. Dis~ensatlons for the formation of new Lodge~, under the Reg~
II h1t1ons prescribed m Sec. 2. Art. I., Part III. ; 2tl- To grant Dispensations for
tho holding electionR of an officer or officers at times other than the regular periods prescribed In Sec. I, Art. I., Part IV., under the regulations provided in Sec.
»., Art. I., Pnrt IV. ; 3d-To grant Dispensations to ballot for and confer the
d11greus. npo0; n can~idrLte, without the reference of his application to a committee
"" provuled 111 Sec. 3, Art. III., Part III., under the regulations prescribed in Sec.
'· Art. III., I>art III. ; 4th - To convene any Lodge, preside therein inspect
h~ proceediugs, u.nd require its conformity to Masonic usage; 5th-To a'rrest the
llharter or Di~pensation of nny Lodge, for good reasons shown and suspend
tho operations thereof until the next Communication; 6th-To susl>end the Mas~ir of any Lodge from the exercise of the powers and duties of bis office for good
r1•11HOllR shown, until the next Communication; ·1th -To require the attendance
11!', nncl information from any' Grand Officer, respecting matters appertainin!!' to
lh~ duties of his office ; and 8th-To appoint Representatives in other rccogmzed
Uranll Lodges, nnll to receive and accredit Representatives from them.

136

jouR.NAt OF PROCEEDINdS.

[May,

SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of the Grand Master : 1st- To preside in the Grand
Lodge at all its Communications; 2d-To present at each Annual Communication a written message, therein setting forth all his official acts during the year,
exhibiting the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and recommending such legislation as he may deem necessary or expedient for the welfare
of the Order ; 3d -To constitute all chartered Lodges, either in person, or by 11
duly authorized representative, in accordance with the Ancient Usages and Regu•lations; 4th- To exercise a general and careful supervision over the Craft, and
see that the Constitution and Regulations of the Grand Lodge arc strictly maintained, supported and obeyed; and 5th-To discharge all the executive function•
of the Grand Lodge, when that body is not in session :
SEC. 3. From the decisions of the Grand Master in the chair, there shall be no
appeal, but he shall be amenable for any abuse of his power as provided in Art. I.,.
Part VI.
ARTICLE II.
OF THE DEPUTY GRAND MASTER AND THE GRAND W AHDENS.
SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the Deputy Grand Master to assist the Grand
Master in the disch,a rge of his duties at the Communications of the Grand Lodge,
and in his absence to preside therein ; and in the event of the death of the Grand
Master, or of his absence from the State, or of his inability from any cause, to perform the functions of his office, the Deputy Grand Master shall succeed to and be
charged with all its powers and duties.
SEc. 2. It shall be the duty of the Grand Wardens to assist the Grand Master
at the Communications of the Grand Lodge, and in his absence, and that of the
Deputv Grand Master, to preside therein in the order of their rank; and in case
of the "death, absence from the State, or inability as before, of bot.h their superiors, they shall in the order of their rank, succeed to nnd be chnrged with all the
powers aud duties of the Grand Master.
ARTICLE III.
OF THE GHAND TREASUREH.
SECTION 1. lt shall be the duty of the Grand Treasurer; 1st-To receive all
moneys belonging to the Grand Lodge from the Grand Secretary ; to give him
duplicate receipts therefor ; and to keep, in proper books, a just account
thereof; 2d-To take charge of all other property of the Grand Lodge, except as provided in Sec. 1, Art. IV., of this Part, and keep an accurate A.ccount
thereof; 3d - To pay all orders drawn upon such funds and moneys, under
such regulations as may be provided by the Grand Lodge · 4th - To nttend the
Grand Lodge at nil its Communications, and the Grand ifaster when required,
with the books and all necessary papers appertaining to his office i and also, if
required by the Grand Lodge or Grand .Master, to attend with sucn books and
papers upon any committee which may be appointed to net in relation to the
fiscal concerns of the Grand Lodge ; and 5th- To report at each Annual Communication a detailed account of his receip ts and disbursements, with proper
vouchers for the latter ; and present a statement of the existing condition of its
property and finances.
SEc. 2. Ile shall execute aqil file in· the office of the Grand Secretary, within
fifteen days after his installation, 11n official bond, in such ~e!1al sum and wi~h
such sureties as shall be approv.ed by the Grand Master, cond1t10ned that he will
faithfully discharge the duties of his office, and, at the end of his term will pay
over and transfer to his successor all funds or property of the Grand Lodge
which shall have come into his keeping.
SEc. 3. Ile shall receive such compensation for his services as the Grand
J,odge may, from time to time, direct.
.
ARTICLE IV.
OF THE GRAND SECRETARY,
SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary : 1st - 'l'o record all
traneactions of the Grand Lodge which it is proper to have written, and to superin·
tend the publication thereof, immediately after the close of each Communication,

6851.]

GRAND LODGE or tjALtPORNIA.

187

nnder such instructions as may be given by the Grand Lodge ; 2d-To receive,
duly file, and safely keep all papers and documents addressed or belonging to
the Grand Lodge; 3d-To keep .t he Seal of the Grand Lodge, and affix the
Kame, with his attestation, to all instruments emanating from that body, and to
all the written official acts of the Grand Master; 4th -To collect all moneys
due to the Grand Lodge, keep a correct account thereof in proper books, and
pay the same over to the Grand Treasurer without delay ; 5th - To report at
~ach Annual Communication 11 detailed account of all moneys received by him
during the year, with a specific statement of the sources whence they were derived; and to present therewith the receipts of the Grand Treasurer therefor;
6th - To report at each Annual Communication all Lodges which shall be in
arrears to the Grand Lodge, or which shall have neglected or refused to comply
with any provision of its Constitution and Regulations ; and to notify such
Lodges that such report will be made; 7th-To conduct the correspondence
of the Grand Lodge, and to submit copies thereof, at each Annual Communication, for its inspection and approval • 8th-To attend the Grand Lodge at all
its Communication~, and the Grand Master, when required, with the books and
all necessary papers appertaining to his office ; 9th - To keep his office, with
all the books, papers, and archives of the Grand Lodge, in a fire-proof building;
and to have the same open at least six hours each day (except Sundays) for the
transaction of Masonic busineBS; 10th-To tranRmit to the several Grand
Lodges in correspondence with this Grand Lodge, immediately after the close
of each Annual Communication, a certificate of the election of its Grand Officers, having their signatures therein written; with a request for a similar certificate evi,ry year, from each of those bodies · 11th- 'l'o present nt each Annual Communication an estimate of the probahle expenses of the ensuing year,
giving each class of expenditures under its proper head ; and nlso to present 11n
estimate of the probable income from the known sources of revenue, during the
st\me perio~i 12th-To IBBue notices of any Special Communication ordered by
the Grand .Master, to each Lodge, Grand Otll.ccr, and Past Grand Officer within
the jurisdiction; 13th - To issue notices to each Lodge, of the granting of 11 Dispensation by the Grand Master for the formation ofa new Lodge ; 14th - To transmit to any Lodge, which shall send him a proper certificate of membership and
good standing of a deceased Brother, stating that he leaves a wife, child or chil·
dren, a Grand Lodge diploma for her, his or their benefit, free of chargo, when
so requested by such Lodge ; 15th -To take charge of the jewels, furniture,
clothing and paraphernalia, of the Grand Lodge, during its ncations; 16th-To
furnish every Grand Officer, elected or appointed, with a certificate of such election or appointment; 17th- To act as Grand Librarian and ta,ke charge of the
Library of the Grand Lodge, under such regulations as it may prescribe;
18th -To report at each Annual Communication, all unfinished business of the
Grand Lodge, and to present all such other matters to its notice as may properly
come within its province; and, 19th -To perform all such other duties, nppertaining to his office, as the Grand Lodge. may direct.
SEc. 2. He shall execute nnd file in the office of the Grand Treasurer, within
fifteen days after his installation, 11n offici11l bond, In such penal sum and with
such sureties as shall be approved by the Grand Master, conditioned that he will
faithfully discharge the duties of his office, as prescribed in this Constitution.
SEc. 3. He shall receive such compensation for his services as the Grand
Lodge may direct ; nnd in addition thereto shall receive the following fees:1st - For a Dispensation to open a new Lodge, the sum of fifteen dollars ;
2d - For a Charter to continue a Lodge, the sum of ten dollars ; 3d - For 11
Dispensation to hold an election of an officer or officers, at another than the regular period, the sum of five dollars ; 4th - For a Dispensation to ballot for a
candidate and confer the degrees, without reference to a committee, the sum of
ftve dQllars; 5th-l!'or a Diploma of any kind, (except when issued for the widow or children of a deceased brother,) the sum of three dollars; 6th- For every certificate (except those herein before named) requiring the Seal of the Grauel
Lodge, the sum of three dollars.
SEc. 4. He may, with the approval of the Grand Master, appoint an Assistant
Grand Secretary, for whose official acts he shall be responsible, and who shall be

18

138

JOURNAL OF PROCEEl>IN<lS.

considered an appointed officer of tha Gr1md Lodge, and shall receive such com·
peneation for his services as it may direct.
ARTICLE V.
OF THE APPOINTED ORA.ND OFFICERS.
SECTION 1. It shall be the duty of the Grand Chaplain, at each Communicatlool
to perform such services, appertaining to hi~ sacred office, as may be required Of
him by the Grand Master.
SEC. 2. It shall be the duty of the Grand Orator, at each Annual Communication, to deliver an address to the Grand Lodge, upon matters appertaining to the
Ancient Craft.
SEC. 3. It shall be the duty of the Grand Marshal at each Communication :
1st -To proclaim the Grand Officers at their installation, and to make such other
proclamations as by the Grand M11ster may lie directed ; 2d-To introduce the
Uepresent:itives of other Grand Lodges, and all visiting brethren of distinction ;
and, 3d- To conduct all processions of the Grand Lodge, under the direction of
the Grand Master, and perform such other duties, proper to his office, as may be
required.
SEc. 4. It shall be the duty of the Gmud Standard Be111'er to bear the Grand
Banner of the Order in all processions and at all public ceremonies.
SEC. 5. It shall be the duty of the Grand Sword Bearer to attend upon th.e
Grand Master, and bear the Sword of the Grand Lodge in all processions and at
till public ceremonies, and to perform such other duties as by ancient u~age apper·
ta.in to his office.
SEC. 6. It shall be the duty of the Grand Bible Dearer to bear the Holy Writing&
in all processions, and at all public ceremonieH.
·
Si.:c. 7. It shall be the duty of the Grand Deacons to a!lf!ist the Grand Master
and Grand Wardens in such manner as the ancient usages of the Craft prescribe.
Smc. 8. It shall be the duty of the Grand Stewards to superintend the preparations for all festive occasions directed by the Grand Lodge.
'
SEC. 9. It shall be the duty of the Grand Organil!t to preside a.t the organ at
the o:iiening and closing of tbe Grand Lodge, and to conduct its music upon all
occasions of ceremony, when required.
SEC. 10. It shall be the duty of the Grand Purimivant. : l~t- 'l'o guard the in·
ncr door of the Grand Lodge, and communicate with the Grand 'l'yler without;
2d-To announce all applicants for admi~ion by their n:i.mes and proper Ma·
sonic titles, and see that all who enter wear the jewels proper to their rank; and,
3d-To allow none to withdraw who have not. obtained permil!l!ion to do so
from the Grand Muster.
SEC. 11. It shall be the duty of the Grund Tyler: 1st-To guard the outer door
of the Grand Lodg·e, and communicate with the Grandl'urRuivunt within; 2d-To
report all applicants for admission, to the Grand Pursuivant, and see that all who
enter are duly authorized and properly clothed; 3d--To make suitable prepara·
tions for the accommodation of the Graud Lodge at all itll Communications, and
see that the Hall is kept in proper condition during their continuance ; 4th -To
take charge of and safely keep the jewels, furniture, clothing, and paraphernalia
of the Grand Lodge during its Communications ; and 5th-To carry all notices
and summonses, and perform such other duticR as may be required of him by tho
Grand Lodge or Grand Master.
SEC. 12. The Grand T,rler shall receive for his ~crvicPs •ur.h rompens~tion as
the Grand Lbdge may direct.
ARTICLE VI.
OF TllE CO:llPEliSATI01" OF GRAND Of'F!CllRS.
SECTION 1. Each of the elective Grand OfficerR Rhnll be entitled to r~ceive pay·
ment for the amonnt of his actual tr:welini;: expensefi in goinl( to und returning
from the Gmnd Lodge, at nny Communication which be may nttend. and nlFo th1•
sum of three dollars per diem during such nttcndnncc; Jmt i11nll cases, such claims
for expenses and per uiem shall be ascertained by the Committee on Finance, lllld
}>e by it reported on, before allowance by the Grand Lodge.

1)857.]

GRAND LODGE OJ' OALil'ORNIA.

189

SEc. 2. No pecuniary compensation for services, except as herein before provided,
Mhall be allowed or voted from the funds of the Grand Lodge to any of its officers
or members.

PART

III-

0/ Subordinate Lodgea.
ARTICLE I.
OF TUE ORGANIZATION OF A !.ODGE.
SECTION. 1. A Lodge can only be formed by authority of a Dis11ensation fi•om
the Grand Master or a Charter from the Grand Lodge; and hereafter no Charter
~hall be granted to any Lo1lge, until it shall have work~d a time un~er Dispen~·
tion, and shall have exhibited to the Grand Lodge satisfactory evidence of its
Masonic capability.
.
SEc. 2. Upon the proper petition of seven or more Master Masons being present·
ed to the Grund Master he may grant them n Dispensation to open and hol~ a
Lod"e at the place ther~in to be named, with power to make Masons and receive
meufbers by affiliation and he shall therein appoint tbe Master and Wardens of
the new Lodge. But in no case shall such Dispensation be issued, unless the. pe·
tition be accompauied by u recommendation from the nearest or most C?nvement
chartered Lodge, ~if from a town or city where more than ~°:e Lodge exists, then
from a majority of su~h Lodges,) setting f?rth that the pet1t1oners ar~ all Maste.r
Masons in good stand mg- that the establishment of the new Lodge is of mamf'eot propriety 11nd will conduce to the good of the Order - and that. a. B:lfe and
~uit:i.blc Lodge room has been provided therefor : nor unless the pet1t1on shall
also be accompanied by 11 certificate from a Master whom the Grand Master is sat·
isfied is well skilled in the Craft, declaring that the Master proposed in such petition is fully competent properly to confer the three degrees of Masonry, and to
del iver entire the lectures thereunto appertaining. Such Dispensation shall ter·
miuate upon tho first day of the month in which the next succeeding Annual Com·
munication shall be holden, and shall then be returned to the Grand Secretary,
together with the By-Laws, Book of Re'bords, and Returns of the new Lodge. .
Si.:c. 3. Upon the return of t~e Dispensation. of a n?w Lodge, as above, ';1'1th
11n application for a Charter, 1f an examlnat10n of its work and proceedings
shall prove satisfactory, the Grand Lodge may order the issue ,of a Charter to
8uch Lodge and assign it such ntime a.nd number on the Registry as shall be
deemed pr~pcr · and such Lodge shall be duly constituted within thirty days
thereafter, or it~ Charter shall be forfeited. If the exa~ination be not ~tiefnc·
tory, the l\pplication mo.y be totally refused, or a contmuance of the D~spensa·
tion until the next Communication, may be ordered; but no such contmuanco
~hall be gi·anted a second time.
.
.
SEC. 4. A Lodge shall consist of 11 Mnster, 11 Semo~ Wardf.'n, a Jumor Warden, a Treasurer, a Secretary, u Senior De~con, a Jumor peacon, a Tyler, and
8uch other officers as its By-Lawa may provide ; tog.ether with as many memb~rs
as it ma.y find convenient, congregating and working under I\ Charter or Dis·
pensation as aforeS11id.
AHTICLE II.
OF 1'1lM POWEltS A~D DUTIES OF A LODGE.

SEC'rION 1. The powerij and privilc~es of a Lodge arc such a~ are authorized in
il8 Dispensation or Charter, by the Constitution and Regulations of the Grand
Lodge, and by the General Re~ulations of Masonry ; and they are. defined as
follows : ht - Executive - In the direction and performance of its w~rk, as
prescribed by the Grand Lodge, under the con~rol of the ~aster ; an.d ID all
otller matters in nid of the Master, who is the pr1me.ryexe~utn:e author~ty oft~e
Lodge · 2d - Legislative -Including all matters of legislation relative to its
ii1t.ernai concerns, which shall not be in violation of the Constitution or Reg-

140

JOURNAL O.F PROOEEDINGI.

[May,

ulat!ons of the Grand Lodge, the Gel!-e:al Regulations of Masonry, or its own
particular By-Laws; and, 3d- Jud1c1al- Embracing the exercise of discipline over its own members (except the Master) and all other Masons within its
Jurisdiction, and the settl.ement of controversies between them, subject always
to an appeal to th" Grand Lodge.
S1.:o. 2. Each Lodge shall have one !lated meeting only in c11ch month, but
may hold ~uch other m!leting@as it may ?etermine, o!' the Master shall direct ;
but no bus1~ess of any kmd, except collect10ns for cb1mty, conferring of degrees,
or ceremomal observances, shall be done at uny other than a stated meeting. unless by dispensation from the Grand Master, as hereinbefore provided. And all
business, except the conferring of the first two degrees, shall be done in a Lodge
of Master Masons.
SEc. 3. Each chartered and duly constituted Lodge shall be represented in
the Grand Lodge at every Communication, by one or more of its proper officers
or by a representative duly elected as provided in Art. II., Part VII., which of:
ficers or representative shall have credentials, respectively, in the forms provided in Art. III., Part VII.
SEC. 4. Each Lodgo shall transmit to the Grand Secretary a full and correct
return Of its transac:iOfi:S for the twelve. m.ontbs next preceding the· anniversary
of St; Job!l the ~apt1st, m ea,ch year, w1thm fifteen days thereafter, in the form
provided m Article III., Part VII.; and shall accompany them with payment of
its dues to the Grand Lodge for that period, as prescribed in Sec. 4, Art. VIII.1
Part I.
SEc. 5. Each Lodge shall transmit to the Grand Secretary a copy· of its ByLaws, as soon as adopted ; but no such Dy-Laws shall be deemed valid until approved by the Grand Lodge, though they may be acted under until the next
Communication, if approved by the Grand Master.
SEc. ti. Each chartered Lodg~ shall, within two months from the date of its
Charter, have 11 suitable seal, bearing such devices us may be deemed proper
and having inscribed thereon the name and number of the Lodge, the date of it~
Charter, and the pln~e of its location; and all documents or papers of every kind
wha~soever, ~lllanat1ng from su~h Lodge, or from its Master, or Secretary, in his
official capacity, shall bear the impress of such seal, or be considered null and of
no effect.
SEc. 7. Each Lodge shall have all official communications from the Grand
Master or Grand Secretary read in open Lodge immediately upon their receipt.
SEc. 8. Each Lodge shall provide the several books prescribed in Sec. 2 Art.
V., Part IV., to be k"pt by its Secretary, which shall be prepared in accordance
with the forms provided in Art. III., Part VII.
SEC 9. Each Lodge shall provide, in such manner as it may deem proper, for
the payment of its officers or representati\res in attending the Communications
of the Grand Lodge.
SEc. 10. For the neglect or violation of any duty imposed upon a Lodge in this
Constitution, its Charter may be suspended or forfeited ; and for any neglect or
vio.la~ion of~ duty imposed upon a Secretary, a Lodge shall be held reRponsible,
as 1f 1t were its own act.
ARTICLE III.
PROlllDITIONS.

OP

SECTION 1. No Lodge shall remove its place of meeting from that named in its
Dispensation or Charter, unless notice shall have been given at a stated meeting
that a resolution for such removal will be offered at the next succeeding one ; nor
nnless such resolution shall have been adopted by the votes of at least two
thirds of the members present at such succeeding meeting; nor shall such removal then take place until the action of the Lodge shall have been approved by
the Grand Lodge or Grand MaRter.
SEc. 2. No Lodge in this State shall receive an application for the degrees of
Masonry unless the applicant shall have been a resident within the State during
twelve months, and within the jurisdiction of the Lodge during three months,
next preceding the date of his application. Nor shall any Lodge receive such
appli~tion from any person who, within twelve months next preceding, shall

5857.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA.

141

have been rejected by any Lodge. All such applications, as well as those for
aftlliation, shall be in writing, signed by the applicant, and recommended by at
lea.st two members of the L odge, in the forms prescribed in Art. III., Part VII.
SEC. 3. No Lodge shall ballot upon such application (except by Dispensation
t'rom the Grand Mastor as provided in Sec. 1, Art. I ., Part II.,) until it shall
have been referred to a committee, whose duty It shall be to make strict exam·
!nation into the moral, mental and physical qualifications of the applicant, and to
report thereon: 11,t the next stated meeting, unlees further time be granted. No
application eball be withdrawn after reference to a committee, and it shall re·
quire an unanimous ballot to elect.
SEC. 4. No Dispensation shall be iBl!ued to a Lodge to brulot for and confer
the degrees upon a candidate without reference to a committee as provided in
the preceding section, unless the application therefor he made by the Lodge, by
u. unanimous vote, in the form hereafter provided in Art. III., Part VII. ; and of
the special meeting to be holden under such Dispensation, and the purporo
thereof, the members of the Lodge shall have due notice.
SEc. 5. No Lodge shall have more than one ballot for the three degrees ; but,
though the applica11t may be elected to receive them. if at any time before his
initiation, objection be mnrle by any member, be shall not receive the degree
until such object ion shall have been withdrawn i and if, after his Initiation,
but before his being passed or raised, objection to J1is advancement be made by
tmy member, such objection shall be referred to a committee, with power to inquire into the cauF!C thereof, who shall at the next stated meeting (unless further
time be given) report thereon; and upon the reception of such report, If no cause
lor the objection has been nBBigned, or if such cause be not, in the opinion of two
thirds of the membera present, o. valid and Masonic one, the Lodge may order
the d egree to be conferred in the same manner as if no objection had been made.
S1'Jc. 6. No Lodge shall advance an Entered Apprentice or a l<'ellow Craft
to a higher degree, until, after a strict examination in open Lodge, he shall have
given satisfactory- evidence that h~ is entirely proficient and well qualified in
that or those which he has nlrendy taken ; and no Entered Apprentice or Fellow
Craft shall be advanced to a higher degr(Je in any Lodge other than that in
which be shall have received those, or either of those, degrees, unless by the offici al consent of such Lodge, if it thl'n be in existence, or bo within the United
States.
Sim 7. No Lodge within thi~ State shall cont'cr the three degrees for a less fee
than fifty dollars ; nor shall any Lodge without the State and under this jurisdiction, confer them for a less fee than thirty dollars; and in every case the fee for
each, or all, of the degrees, ns may be regulated by the Lodge, ~hall be paid be·
fore the conferring thereof.
SEC. 8. No Lodge shall confer degrees upon more than five candidates at any
one meeting ; nor Rhnll confer more than one degree upon nny one candidate at
any one meeting ; nor shall confer either of the degrees upon more th11n one candidate at a time.
SEC. 9. No Lodge shall expel or ~u spend ti member for the non-payment of hi~
dues ; but in cR~e any member shall have refnsed or neglected to pay his regular
clues during a period of six months, he shall be notified by the Secretary that, un·
less at the next stated meeting, either his dues be paid, or ~ickne~s or inability to
pay be shown as the cause of such refusal or neglect, bis name will be stricken
from the roll of members. If neither of these things be done his name shall be
stricken from the roll, unless, for special reasons shown, the Lodge may otherwise determine ; nnu no Mason, thus stricken from the roll of any Lodge, shall
be received into membership by any other Lodge, until he ~ball have paid up all
arrearages to that of which he was last a member, or, if that has ceased to exist,
to the Grand Secretary for account of the Grand Lodge.
SEc. 10. No Lodge shall receive lectures from any person who is not duly authorized by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master.
SEc. 11. No Lodge shall receive an application for affiliation unless it be accompanied with a proper demit from the Lodge of which he was laet a member.
SEC. U. No Lodge shall hold Masonic communication with any LOllge, which
has been declared clandestine or illegal by the Grand Lodge, or with any person
who bas received degrees in, or is a member of such a Lodge.

..

142

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

SEC. 13. No Lodge shall admit a visitor without due inquiry or examination,
nor if there be in the opinion of the Master, a valid objection made to such aG•
mission by a member of the Lodge.
SEC. 14. No Lodge which shall have foiled to make its annual returns, as provided in Sec. 4·, Art. II., Part III., and in Sec. 1, Art. V., Part IV., shall be enti·
tied to representation at the next Communication.
S.ec. 15. No Lodge under Dispensation shall be entitled to representation in the
Grand Lodge, though it may send delegates thereto who may be admitted to
seats, but shall have no vote.

6851.]

mtA:N:D LODGE

to be properly certified by the Secretary i and of the special election which may
thus be ordered, the members shall have uue notice.
SEC. 3. Every member in good standing, and whose dues are paid, shall be en·
titled to a vote at all elections ; and every voter shall be eligible to any office in
the Lodge.
Ssc. 4. The Deacons, Tyler and such other officers as the By-Laws of each
Lodge may dcsiii:nate, shall be appointed in such manner as they may direct ;
1111d the officers so appointed shall be properly invested as soon as practicable afwr their appointment.
ARTICLE II.

ARTICLE IV.
01' THE DISSOLUTION Ol' LODOES.

SEC'l'lON 1. A Lodge may be dissolved : 1st- Dy a voluntary surrender of its
Charter, when such surrender shall have been accepted by the Grand Lodge ; and
2nd- By the net of the Grand Lodge declaring its Charter forfeited.
SEC. 2. The Charter of a Lodge may be surrendered if notice shall be given at
one stated meeting that a resolution to that effect will be presented at the ne~
succeeding one, and if at such succeeding meeting, such resolution for surrender
shall receive the votes of at least two-thirds of the members present ; but no such
act of surrender shall be considered of any effect until it shall have been approved
and accepted by the Grand Lodge.
SEC. 3. The Charter of a Lodge may be forfeited, 1st-Dy disobedience to any
provision of the Constitution or Uegulations of the Grand Lodge; 2d--Dy disregard
of the lawful authority of the Grand Ma.•ter ; 3d - By violation or neglect of the
ancient and recognized usages of the Craft· or, 4th -By failure to meet during a
period of six successive months. But no Charter shall be forfeited, except after
charges shall have been regularly presented in the Grand Lodge, of which the
Lodge accused shall have due notice; though the same may be suspended until
the next Annual Communication, either by the Grand Lodge or the Grand Master,
upon satisfactory reasons therefor being shown.
SEC. 4. The forfeiture of the Charter of a Lodge involves the suspension of all
its members from the rights and privileges of Masonry, excepting those who mav
be by name especially exempted from such effect.
SEc. 5. The surrender or forfeiture of the Charter of a Lodge, when declared by
the Grand Lodge, shall be conclusive upon the Lodge and its members; and oil
its funds, jewels, furniture, dues, and property of every kind shall be disposed of
as provided in Sec. 5, Art. VIII., Purt J.

PA.RT

IV.

Of the O.fficers of Subordinate Lodges.

or OALIFORNiA.

OF THE MASTER.

SECTION 1. The Master shall have power : lat - To congregate his Lodge whenuver he sball tleem it proper ; 2d - '.J.'o issue, or cause to be issued, all summonses
and notices which may be required; 3d --To discharge all the executive funcUons of the Lodge ; 1md, 4th- To perform all such other acts, by ancient usage
proper to his office, which shall not be in contravention of any provision of the
Constitution or Regulations of the Grand Lodl.!'e.
SEc. 2. It shall be his duty: 1st- To preside at all meetings of his Lodge;
2d-To confer all degrees in strict accordance with the Ritual which has been,
or may hereafter be ordained by the Grund Lodge; 3d-To give, in full, the
lectures appertaining to each degree, at the time it is conferred, in accordance
with such Hitual ; 4th -To superintend the official acts of all the officers of his
Lodge, and see that their i·espectiv~ duti~s are properly dischar!fed ; and,
6th - To carefully guard against any mfraction, by the members of his Lodge,
of its own By-Laws, of the Constitution or Regulations of the Grand Lodge, or
of the General Regiilations of Masonry.
SEO. 3. From the decisions of the Master there shall be no appeal to the Lodge,
but objections to such decisions may be laid before the Grand Master, and by him
be dealt with in the manner provided in Art. II., Part VI.
SEC. 4. In all cases of a tie vote (except by ballot,) the Master, in addition to
his proper vote, shall have the casting vote.
s~:c. 5. For the neglect or violation of any duty imposed by this Constitution,
upon the Master of' a Lodge, he ~hl\ll be subject to suspension or deprivation of
olf\ce, or expulsion. as provided in Art. II .. Part VI.
ARTICLE III.
O~'

THE W.l.RDENS.

SEC'I'lOS 1. lt ~hall ~the duty of the Wardens to assist the Master in the performance of his dutieB, and to discharge all those clutics which ancient usage hns
assigned to their respective stations.
SEC. 2. In the absence of the Master, the Senior Warden (and in his absence,
nlso, the Junior Wnrden,) shall succeed to and be charged with all the powers and
1luties of the Master.

ARTICLE I.

ARTICLE IV.

OF ELEC'rIONS AND APPOINTMENTS.

OJ•' THE TKEASUREK.

SECTION 1. The Master, Wardens, Treasurer, and Secretary of each Lodge shall
be elected annually, by ballot, nt the stated meeting next preceding the anni·
versary of St. John the Baptist: and a majority ·of the ·rntes of the members present shall be necessary to elect. They shall be installed on or before the next
stated meeting thereafter, and shall hold their respective offices until their ~uc­
cessors shall have been duly elected and installed.
Sim 2. In case any Lodge shall fail to hold such election at the time above
named, upon good cause being bhown therefor, the Grand lllaster may issue a
Dispensation to hold such election at another time ; and in case a vacancy ~hall
at any time occur in either of the offices of Master or Warden in any Lodge, upon
proper representation thereof the Grand Alaster may issue a Di ~pensation for un
election to fill such vacancy. But in either of these cases, such Dispensation shall
be issued only upon the application of the Lodge, setting forth the reasons therefor, to be approved by two thirds of the .members present at n stated meeting, and

SECTION L It shall be the duty of the Treasurer: 1st - To receive l\nd safely
keep all moneys or property of every kind which shall be placed in his hands by
order of the Lodge ; 2d -To disburse or transfer the same, or any part thereof,
upon the order of the Master, duly attested by the Secretary ; 3d - To keep a
hoQk or books wherein a correct account of his receipts and disbursements shall
be exhibited; 4th-To present a statement of the finances of the Lodge when<:vcr requirCll ; and, 5th -To perform such other duties appertaining to his office, as the By-Laws may require, 01· the Lodge may at any time direct.
ARTICLE V.
O~

THF. HECRETA!ff,

SEc·rrnx 1. It 8hall be the duty of the Secretary : 1st -To record nil the proceeding at each meeting, which it is proper should be written, under the direction of the Master; and to submit such record to the Lodge nt its nex~ stated

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDtkGB.

tMay,

meeting for approval or correction ; 2d -To prepare and transmit a copy of
such record, or of any part thereof, to the Grand Lodge when required· Sd-To
collect and receive all moneys due to the Lodge, and p~y them over to'the Treaeure_r ; 4th -To keep the Seal of the Lodge, and to affix the same with his attestation, to all papers iBSUed under its authority, or in obedience to the requirem~nts of the Constitution and Regulations of the Grand Lodge i 5th - To tra.nem1t to the Grand Secretary, immediately after each election and mstallation in the
Lodge, a certifl~ate thereof, in the form prescribed in Art. Ill., Part VII. ;
6th - To transmit to the Grand Secretary the Annual Return required in Sec. 4,
Art II., Part III., in the form hereinafter pro\•ided in Art. III., Part VII. ;
an~ 7th-To report to .the.Grand Secr~tary and all the Lodges, immediately after
their occurrence, all reJect1ons, expulsions, suspensions, names stricken from the
roll, and restorations, in the form provided in Art. III., Part VII.
SEc. 2. He shall keep the following books of the Lodge in the forms provided.
in Art. III., Part VII. : 1st -A Record Book, in which he shall record all the
transactions of the Lodge proper to be written, after the same shall have been
approved i 2d -A book of By-Laws, for the signatures of the members in the order of their admission ; 3d -A Roll Book, in which he shall record upon pages
alp?a~e~i_ca~ly arran~ed, t~e. names of .al~ belonging to the Lodge;' the dates of
their 1mt1at10n, p~SSing, Ta1smg or affiliat10n ; the name, number, and location of
the Lodges of w~ch those affiliated last were members; the age and occupa.tio11
of each "'.hen re_ce1ved, and the dates of their withdrawal, expulsion, suspension,
death, bemg stricken from the roll1 or restoration; 4th-A mack Book,in which
he shall record, on pages a1phabet1cally arranged, the names of those rejected, expelled, suspendi;d, stricken from t?e roll, or restored by any of the Lodges, so far
as he shall receive the proper notice thereof; 5th -A Register to be kept in the
Tyler's room, in which all members and visitors shall record th~ir names and residence before entering the Lodge. •
·
.
SEC. 3. He shall also keep such Account Books as may be necessary to present
clearl;r the acconnt of each member with the Lodge, the receipts of the Secretary,
and his pa~ents to the Treasurer; and shall preserve the books of Constitutions
and Regul~t10ns of the ~rand Lodge~ which may from time to time be published,
together with all the printed proceedmgs thereof as promulgated by its order.
ARTICLE VI.
OF THE APPOINTED OFFICERS.
SECTION I. The Deacons, Tyler, and other appointed officers, shall perform
such duties, consonant with the usages of the Craft, and appertaining to their respective offices, as may be required by the By-Laws, or directed by the Master.

P A R T V.

Of Individual Masons.
ARTICLE I.
OF MKilllERSlllP,
SECTION 1. Membership in a Lodge may be acquired: 1st-By having regularly received the degree of Master Mason therein i 2d- By having been
duly elected for affiliation therewith ; and 3d -By havmg been named in a Dispensation for a new Lodge as one of the petitioners therefor.
SEC.. 2. No Mason shall be a member of more than one chartered Lodge at the
same time ; but a member of a chartered Lodge may be one of the petitioners for
a new Lodge, and may hold membership therein during the term of its Dispensation, his membership in the old Lodge being meanwhile suspended.
. SEc. 3. Membership in a Lodge can only be terminated : 1st -By the dissolut10!1 of the Lodge ; 2d - By voluntary withdr.awal therefrom; 3d-By being
stric_ken from the roll for non-payment of dues; and 4th-By suspension or e:x:puls10n.

685'i.]

GRAND LODGE OF CAtU'ORNl&.

145

Sm:c. 4. Upon the dissolution of a Lodge by the voluntary surrender ef its Char&or, or by the termination of its Dispensation, all its members become simply nonaftlllated ; but when a Lodge shall be sufpended, or its Charter forfeited, all its
members shall be deemed suspended, except as hereinbefore proYided.
SEC. 5. A member of n. Lodge in good standing, Md whose dues ore paid, may
withdraw therefrom at any time by giving notice of his intention so to do at a
1tated meeting; but no recommendatory certificate shall be given him except by
a vote of a majority of the Lodge.
'
ARTICLE II.
OF DUTIES, PROIIIBITIONS AND PENALTIES.
SECTION 1. It is the duty of every Master Miu;on to be a member of rome
Lodge; and every one who shall refuse or neglect eo to be, or who shall not have
regularly contributed to ~ome Lodge an amount equivalent to its reguln.r dueP,
while able so ~o do, shall be deemed unworthy of Masonic consideration, and
Mhall not be entitled to, nor be the recipient of, any rights, privileges or churities
of any Lodge.
SEc. 2. No .m~mber of a Lodge shall be required to divulge his vote upon a
ballot for affiliation, or for the degrees of Masonry, nor to aaeign reasons for such
vote, if it be known.
SEC. 3. No Mason shall hold aily Masonic intercourse with au expelled or suspended Mason, -with a clandestine or illegal Lodge, or any person who has received degrees therein, or is a member thereof- nor with any Mason not acknowledged as such by this Grand Lo~ge.
S~c. 4. For non-payment of dues, a member may be stricken from the roll
of his Lodge, in the manner hereinbefore provided iu Sec. 9, Art. III., Part III.
SKc. 5. For any violation of the Ancient Landmarks of the Ordtr of the Con1tltution an.d Regulations o~ the Grand Lodge, of the By-Laws of his Lodge, or
of any .Po!t1?n .of the Masomc or Moral law, a member, or any other Mason within the Jur1sd1ct1on of a Lodge, m11y be suspended or expelled in the manner hereinafter provided in Art. IV., Part IV.
'

PART

VI'..

Of Trials, Appeals and Penaltie1.
ARTICLE I.
llELATIVE TO TllE GRAND MASTER,
SECTION 1. Charges may be preferred against the Grand Master, for abuse of
his power, violation of the Constitution or Regulations of the Grand Lodge or ·
other unmasonic conduct, by any five Masters of Lodges· which charges shall' be
In writing, over their signRtures, and shall be presented to the last Past Grand
Mnster of this Grand Lodge who may be within the State, and who is a member
ofa Lodge within this jurisdiction.
SEc. 2. Upon the presentation of such charges, it shall be the duty of such
l'ast Grand Master to transmit a copy thereof to the accused, if within the State
at least thirty days, and if without the State, at least ninety days, before t.he tim~
designated for the trial, together with a notification to attend at such fme and
place as he 1nay therein name, which shall be one most convenient for the parties ; and he shall also summon four or more other Past Grand Masters of this
Btatcl, who shall be members of Lodges therein, to as:cmble with h:m at the t:ms
and place designated, and shall notify the accused thereof.
SEc. 3. The tribunal thus assembled shall have power to summon witnesses at
the request of either party, to receh·e such testimony as in their judgment shall
he proper, and to determine finally upon the guilt or innocence of the accused ·
aud the opinion of the majority shall be the judgment of the tribun11l.and ehali
bt llm\l.

19

146

•OURNAL OF PROCEEDitms.

8Ec. 4. The only penalty inflicted shall be deprivation of office, but when thus
deprived, the adjudged may be amenable to his Lodge upon a charge of un·
masonic conduct.
SEc. 5. The Grand Secretary shall attend at the trial to keep a record of the
proceedings and of the judgment, which shall be filed in his office, and shall be
presented at the next Communication of the Grand Lodge.
Sim 6. All necessary traveling expenses of the members of such tribunal shell
be paid by the Grand Lodge in the same manner as those of Grand Officers in a~
t3nding at its Communications.
ARTICLE II.

6857.]

GRAND LODGE OJi' CALIFORNIA.

1elected from at least three different Lodges not interested in the controversy,
and most convenient to the parties ; and the accused party shall be summoned,
with such time to answer ns provided in the Section cmd Article last quoted.
SEC. 3. The Commissioners shall have power to proceed, and sh~ll ke~p a record
of their proceedings and judgment in the same ml\nner as provided m Art. II.,
of this part; and the penalties which t~ey m~y intli~t m~y be any kn_own to Mn·
10nic usa"e · or if the case be one not mvolvmg a v10lat1on of Masomc duty, the
decision ~ay b~ such special one as the circumstances shall, in their judgment,
warrant.
SEC. 4. An appeal may be taken by either party to the Grand Lodge, as pro·
vlded in Art. II. of this part.

RELATIVE TO MASTERS OF LODGES.

ARTICLE IV.

SECTION l. Charges may be preferred against the Master of a Lodge, for abuse
of his power, violation of the Constitution or Regulations, or for unmasonio conduct of any kind, by any five members of his Lodge in good stauding; which
char·ges shall be in writing, over their signatures, and shall be presented to the
Grand Lodge, if in session, or to the Grand Master during the vacation.
SEC. 2. Upon the presentation of such charges, th~ Grand Lodge or the Grand
Master, as the case may be, shall at once appoint and summon not less than three
nor more than rnven disinterested Masters, to assemble as Commissioners to hear
and determine thereupon; and shall alEo summon the aceused to appear and an·
swer thereunto, nt such time and p1ace most convenient for the parties, as shnll
be indicnted in said summons; giving him, if within the jurisdiction of his Lodge,
at lenst ten days -°if without that jurisdiction and within the State, at least thirty
days-and if without the State, at least ninety dnys -to answer thereunto; and
transmitting to him nlso a copy of the charges.
SEC. 3. The Commissioners, or any of them shall have power to summon witnesses l\t the request of either party. · The witnesses, if Masons, shall testify upon
their honor as such; if not, their depOS:tions shall .'be taken in writing, before an
officer legally authorized to administer .oaths,,and in such case the party requiring such depositions shall notify the otber of the time and place when and where
they will he taken. that he may, if he choose, be present thereat.
SEc. 4. The Commissioners may adjourn from time to time, at their own convenience, or for good cause shown by either par.ty; provided that the period with·
in which their duties shall be concluded, shall not exceed ten days, unless, for
sufficient reasons. the Grand l\faster shall grant them further time.
SEC. 5. The opinion of a majority of the Commissioners shall be deemed the
judo-ment of the whole, and shall be conclusive unless an appeal be tnken at the
next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
SEC. 6. The penalties which may be inflicted by such Commissioners, may be
either deprivation of office, suspension or expulsion, as in their judgment shall be
deemed proper.
SEC. 7. 'l'he Commissioners shall keep a complete record of their proceedings
and of their judgment, and shall trammit the same to the Grand Secretary at the
conclusion of the trial; and the judgment shall at once be carried into eftect by
order of the Grand Master.
SEC. 8. An appeal to the Grand Lodge may he taken at its next Annual Cpur
munication, by either party, if notice thereof be given to the Grand Secretary
within thirty ilays after the conclusion of the trial.

RELUIVE TO MASONS INDIVIDUALJ,Y.

ARTICLE III.
RELATIVE 'l'O J,ODGE8. AND llEMIJERS Of' DIFfEl\ENT LODGES.

:5Ecr10x 1. When a controversy shall arise between Lodges, or between a Lodge
and a member or members of another Lodge, or between members of different
Lo deres charo-es may be preferred by either party, if in good ~tan ding, which
charge~ shall"he in writing;nml shall be presented to the Grand Lodge or Grand
}laster, UH provided in Sec. I, Art. II., of thi15'l'art.
SEC. 2. Upon the presentati.on of' such charges, not le!'S than three nor more
than seven l.Jommissioners 8hall be appointed and summoned, as provided in Art.
II., of this Part, which Commissioners 81rnll bto l\fastcre or Wardens, and eh!IU ~

147

SECTION I. When anl. member of a Lodge, (except the Master or Grand Ma~
ter,) or any Mason residing within its jurisdiction, shall be accused of unpmsomc
conduct, charges to that eftect mn:y be . J:!referred b.y a!1y Master MJJ.son rn good
atanding · which charges shall be m writmg over hts signature, and shall be preaented to 'the Master. of the Lodge having jurisdiction thereof.
SEc. 2. Upon the presentation of such charges, it shall be the duty of.the Master at once to appoint and summon not less than five nor more than mne members of his Lodge (two of whom shall be the Wardens, if it be within their pow·
~r to attend,) to ~ssemble as Commissioners1 to hear and d~tei:mine thereupo_n, at
Huch time and place convenient to tlj.e parties, as he shall mdicate; and he shall
also summon the ac~used to appear and answer thereul!-to a~ sue~ time and plC1ce,
and shall at the sC1me time cause the Secretary to furmsh him with a copy of the
charges and to notify the ~censor of the said time and place of trial.
SEc. 3. It' the accused be within the jurisdiction of the .Lodge, the summ_ons
C1nd copy of the charges shall be issued at least ten d11ys prior to the day appomt·
cd for the trial, and shall be served personally by the !yler, oi· shaJ! b~ l~ft .at
his ordinary residence or place of business. If he be without the said Jnrisd1ction, but within the State, they shal~ be issued at least thirty days l!ef~re the day
of trial and shall be forwarded to hts address by the Secretary, by mail or other
usual diode of conveyance, which shall be dee~1ie1l sutilcient service. I! he be
without the State, they shall be issued at least nmety days before t~e trial, a_nd
Hhall be forwarded to his address by the Secretary, as before provided, which
M!mll be sufficient serviee. If his address is shown in the charges to be unknown,
the Master shall order the trial to proceed at once upon the testimony, ex parte.
SEc. 4. The Commissioners shall assemble at the time and place appointed, and
the Secretary, by order of the Master, sha~I attend them to kc.ep a full. °:nd correct record of the proceedings and of the Jndgment, under then· superv1s1on.
SEc. 5. The Master shall summon such witnesses as may be desired by either
party, within the jurisdiction ~f h!s L?dge, and the accu~ed may ~elect any brother in good standing to assist bun rn his de!'ence. T~e witnesses, 1f }la~ons, ~~all
testify on their honor as such; _if not, thetr. d.eposit1ons shall b~ taken m wr1tmg
l1efore an otilcer legally authorized to adm1mster oaths, al!d, m such cases, the
party requiring such depositions shall notify the other of the time nnd place
when and where they will be taken that he may, if he choose, he present thereat.
SEc. 6. The Commissioners may 'adjourn from time to time. at their own c?nvenience, or for sufficient cause 8hown by either party; provided that the per10d
within which their duties shall be concluded shall not exceed ten days, unless, for
good reasons shown, the Master shall grant them further time.
SEc. 7. The opinion of a majority of the Commissioners shall be taken as the
decision of the whole· and when the trial is concluded, the Secretary shall make a
fair copy of the record and finding, under their supervision, which shall be signed
by the chairman of such CQmmission and attested by the Secretary, and shall be
presented to the Master, who, at the next stated meeting of ~is Lodge, shall, in
the presence of its members only, announce the result, and direct the Secretary
to record the same as the judgment of the Lodge, and file the record for rnie
keeping among its archives.
Si,;c. B. The penalties which may be inflicted are : reprimand in open Lodge,
8uspension or expulsion. If the sentence be reprimand, the Master shall summon

I

JOURNAL OJ' PROCEEDINGS.

[Ma,v1

the adjudged to nppear nt the next stated meeting, when it shall be cnrried into
effect, in the preEe:ice only of members of the Lodge. If it be suspension or e:s•
pulsion, it shall at once go into effect, and the Secretary shall immediately notlf)'
all the other Lodges thereofL• and it shall be final and conclusive, unless an appeal be tnken to the Grand odgc.
SEc. 9. An appeal may be taken to the Grand Lodge, by either party, only at
its next succeeding Annual Communication, but not unless a notice of such In·
tended appeal shall be given to the Master within thirty days after bis announcement of the result of the trial· and in such case the Master shall cause the Secretary to prepare a transcript of the recorcl of trial, and immediately transmit It to
the Grand Secretary, with Information of the appeal intended.
ARTICLE V.
OF REVISIOli'S AND RESTORATIONS.
SECTION 1. All judgments from which an llppeal shall be taken as hereinbefore
in this Part provided, shall be reviewed in the Grand Lodge, or before 11 Com·
mitte} thereof, during its sessions, upon the record sent up, and upon such other
proper documents as may be submitted; and its decision ~ball be final and con·
elusive.
Sim 2. All sentences of suspension shall be for an indefinite period, 11nd 11
Lodge may, at any etated mectinng, by the votes of two-thirds of the members
pres}nt, annul any such sentence of suspension pronounced by itself, and restore
the 'Mawn tb11s suspended to all his Mason ic rights: Provided, that notice of 11
r 2solution for such restoration shall have. \Jeen given at the stated meeting next
przcecding. And in case of such restoration, the Secretary shall at once notify
all the other Lodges, and the Grand Secretary thereof.
SEC. 3. The Grand LQdge may at any Annual Communication, if good cause
therefor be shown, restore a Mason who bas been suspended or expelled within its
jurisdictioa, but such restoration shall not restore him to membership in the
Lodge by which be was suspended or expelled.
SEc. 4. No l!llspension, expulsion or restoration shall be /ublisbed otherwise
than hereinbefore provided, except by auth?rity of the Gran Lodge.

Of Amendments, Definitions and Forms.
ARTICLE I.
OF AMENDMENTS.
SECTIOS 1. Any proposed amendmrnt to this Constitution shall be presented at
nn Annual Communication, and shall in all cases be referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence, who shall report before a vote thereon be taken.
.
S:sc. 2. After the report of the committee, if the vote in favor of such proposed
amendment be unanimous, it shall be declared adopted, and from and after the
cloEe of that Communication, shall become a p11rt of the Constitution.
SEC. 3. If the vote in favor of such proposed amendment be not unanimous,
lmt there be a majoritr therefor, it shall lie over for one year, and shall be published with the proceedmgs under the caption of " Proposed Amendments to the
Constitution;" and at the next succeeding Annual Communication. if it shall
receive a majority of the votes given thereon, it shall be declared adopted, and
from and after the close of that Communication, shall become n part of the Constitution.
SEC. 4. No vote upon 11 proposed amendment shall be taken after the election
of the Grand Officers.
SEC. 5. All former written Constitutions of this Grand Lodge are hereby repealed, as are aho all Regulations, or parts thereof, which are repugnant to or
JDconsistent with this Constitution ; and no Regulation shall hereafter be adopted which shall be in violation of or inconsistent with any of its provisions.

686i.]

01\AND LODGE OJ' OALIJ'ORNIA.

149

ARTICLE II.
OF DEFINITIOXS.

The words and terms used in this Constitution shall bear the construction which
IM iz:i\•en them in the following definitions : GRAND llIAflTER. -This title applies not only to him who bas been elected and
Installed as Grand Master but to either of the Grand Officers who, under the
provisions of Article II., Part II., of this Constitution, shall have succeeded to
bis powers and duties.
.
MA!STER. -This title applies not only to him who bas been .el.ected nnd 1!1-stalled
l\K Master. but to either of the Wardens who, under the proy1s1ons of Article
of Pnrt IV., of this Constitution shall have succeeded to his po.wers a~d duties.
p AST GRAND OFFICER. -Tl1is title llppliee only to one of the six elective Grand
Officers1 who has been regularly elected nnd installed, and bas served a term as
~uch in tbis Grand Lodge, and who remains a member, in good standing, of rnme
Lodge under its jurisdiction.
PAST lliAsTER. -This title applies only to one who bas been regular)~ e~ected
and installed. and has served a term as Master of a chartered Lo.dgc w1tbJD the
jurisdiction of thi8 Grand Lodge, and who still remains a member JD good stand1np:, of one of its subordinates.
.
REPRESENTATIVE.- The Representative of a Lodp:e within this Stnte1 1s one
who. being a member thereof, in the event that neither the Master nor either of
the Wnrdcns can be present at the Grand Lodge, bas been elected by the Lodg~.
11t a stated meeting, by ballot and by a majority of the votes present, to represent it
at the next Communication. A Lodge without the State may be represented by
I\ member of any Lodge under this jurisdiction, elected .as before.
VAc.u;;cv. - V acnncies in office, either in a Lodge or JD t he. G~an.d ~odge, may
occur by death, deprivation, r esignation, removal from the Jur1sd1ction, suspenRlon, or expulsion.
JumsmCTroi>. - The jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge includes all Lod.ges and
!dasons within the territorial limits of this State, and all Lodges and their members without this State, acting under its authority. Tb~ jurisdiction of a Lodge
Includes all Masons residing nearer to its place of meetmg than to that of any
other Lodge within this State, except in towns or cities wh~re. ~or~ than o!le
Lodge exists· in which case either of such Lodges b11s separate JUr1sdict1on over its
own member~, and concurrent jurisdiction over all Masons not members of one
of such Lodges, who reside in such town or city, or nearer thereto than to any
other place where n Lodge exists.
REGULATION. - By a Regulation of the Grand Lodge is meant any Re,~lut'.o!l,
Edict, Law or Ordinance of any kind whatever, other than the Const1tut1011,
which it may adopt.
SusPENS!ON. - The suspension of a Lodge is an arrest of it.s Ch~rter, and.°' temporary prohibition to aRsemblc or work as a legal Lodge unt1lagaJD authorized so
lo do by competent authority; and the act suspends all its members except th.ose
rspecially exempted from its effect. The suspension of the M~s~er of a ~o~ge 1~ a
temporary deprivation of his office, and prohibits !Ill recogmt10n of. him m that
c11pacity until be le restored by competent authority. The suspens10n of a Ma~on is a temporary deprivation of all his rights and privileges as such, and prohibits all MasonB and Lodges from holding any Masonic !ntercourse wb~tever
with him, until be sbnll be legally restored by the body which suspended him, or
by the Grand Lodge having juriediction over that body.
EXPUI~~JON. -The expulsion of I\ Mason is the highest _Penalty kno~i;i to the
Masonic Law. It is an absolute deprivation of all the rights and pr1v1lei;;es. of
tho Order, and prohibits all Masons l\nd Lodges from holdmg any Masom.c 1!1t~rcourse with him forever, unle88 be be restored by the Grand Lodge w1tbm
whose jurisdiction he bad been expelled.
NOTIFICATIOX. -A notification is a call issued by the Secretary, by ord;r of
the L odge or Master, or by other competent authority, as herei?b~for_e provided,
to attend for some specific purpose at the time and place tberem JDd1cated; and
It ls the duty of every lllason to comply with its direction, if he can, without
itreat inconvenience do so.

:q:r.,

· 150

.JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS •

( Jtfo.y,

. Sl!llMON8. -A Summons is an imperative order, issued by the Master, or by
other competent authority as hereinbefore provided, to appear at such time and
place as may therein be designated. The obligation to obey it is absolute, and
the penalty for disobedience shall be expulsion, unless it shall be shown that
Sl\C~ disobedience was unavoidable, or was occnsioned by some pressing ne·
cess1ty.
STATED MEETINGS. -The stated meeting of a Lodge is the one only meetinp:
in each month, at which business may be done ether than that provided in
Sec. 2, Art. II., Part .III., of this Constitution. It shall be designated as such
in ihe By-Laws of each Lodge, and no adjourned or called meeting shall ever
be considered. as a part of such stated meeting.

t5i

GltA~D tODG:E OF O.U.iFORNIA.

6861.j

RETURNS
OP THE

RUBORDIN ATE LODGES

ARTICLE III.

UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF

OF FORMS.

[The forms "'-hich will t'Ompose this Article, have not yet been prepared by the
committee, but will be presented at the next Annual Communication.-A. G. A.1
Gr'dSec.]

THE GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

California Lodge, No. 1.
!Ian Franol~oo 1 San Franol8co Count)'.

Stated ltfeetinga, first Tliuraday in each Montli.
OFFICERS a

'

J. II. Leitch, Jun. Deacon.
Alex. G. Abell, Wor. Maater,
Geo. W. Ryder, Marahal,
Henry F. Williams, Sen. Warden,
Jlrnj. H. Freeman, Jun. Warden,
A. J. Kellogg, t "'I
_,_
C. A. SearP., f o, ewar....
Bli Cook, 1'rtJaaurer,
0. do Villarson, Organm,
KW. Bourne, &crdanJ,
W. II. Lyon, Sen. Deacon,
Jno. Woolaver, (of San l<'mnci~co Lodge,) fyler.
Past lllaat.er• 1

J. D. Stevenson, P. G. JI., L. Steinhart,
P. A. Brinsmade,
L. T. Wilson,
R. F. Knott, P. J. G. W., Lewis Peck,
J. D. Creigh,
Jrfo. S. Watson.
R. E. Cole, P. S. G. W.
Alex. G. Abell, G. &c.,
MASTER MASONS :

Abraham, J.
Addison, J. E.
Ashley, S. J.
liacon, J acoh
):laker, Geo. W.
llarry, T. A.
Beale, E. 1''.
llenham, Calhoun
lilackm1m, C. ll.
lioyd, Tho~.
l.lrainerd, C. F.
Brnnnan, Jno.
Brenham, C. J.
lJrown, Chas.
llryem, W. J.
Burke, D. H.
Burke, M. J.

Cameron, Juo.
Clough, Jos.
Cook, S. M.
C1·ittenden, A. P.
Crocker, G. H.
CroBB, Osborn
Dall, Jno. H.
Davis, I. E.
Delany, C. McC.
Derby, S. J.
Donaldson, T. P.
Douglass, D. !<'.
De Vries, Thos.
De Woody, T. J.
Eastman, Frank
Elliot, Gardner
Engel, Morit;

Engert, A. F. C.
Fair, W. D.
!<'cit, J, J.
Fernald, D. L.
Field, S. 0.
Findla, Jas.
Fitton, Jas.
Foster, Wm.
Friedlander, A.
Game, M. !<'.
Gardner, Phineas
Gayle, A. D.
Gerke, Henry
Gerry, S. R.
Gilmor, J. A.
Gray, H. M.
Greene, Wm.

Haggett, Thos.
Hann, T. R.
Harrison, G. L.
Hawk, Louis
Heeser, Wm.
Hillard, B. F.
Hodge, Jno.
Hoff, Jno.
Hoft'man, Ogden
Hoft'nier, Wm.
Homer, Chas.
Howe, Wm.
Hudson, G. A.
lckelheimer, H.
Justh, E. ·
Keith, W. H.
Kimball, M•.c,

152 .

jofiRNAL OF PRMUimrns.

King, Leopold
McMahon, Thos.
King, Marcus
Neal, W. W.
Kuh, Leopold
Noyes, G. P.
Lamb, E. J.
Oldfield, W. C.
Lawrence, H. H.
Oldham, T. S.
Letter, Jacob
Olds, W. B.
Linen, Jas.
Overn, Geo.
O'Bryon, J. F.
Maieas, C. W.
Mann, W. B.
Page, R. C.
Martin M. S.
Parent, C. L.
Middleton, Joo.
Paster, S. E.
Miller, J . F.
Patten, B. A.
Miller, W. J.
Patten, W. H.
Milling, Wm.
Paul, A. B.
llliro, H. E.
Payne, Theo.
Molitor, A. P.
Peaslee, C.
Monroe, J. A.
Phillips, Ja.s.
Montagnie, J. de la. Piper, A. D.
Moore, W. H.
Plum, C. M.
Morse. E. E.
Ponte, Joo.
Murphy, N. S.
Potter, F. T.
McClure, A. T.
Pratt, Jas.

[May,

Preston, R. J.
Pulvermacher, F.
Rasche, F.
Reed, S. B.
Revalk, J.
Reynolds, Wm.
Reynolds, W. T. ·
Saulmann, A.
Saunders, B. C.
Savage, O. S.
Sawyer, E. A.
Scooffy, P. l\I.
S elover, A. A.
Sha.w, Tobias
Shaw, S. W.
Shiels, Wm.
Smith, E.W.
Smith, J. T.
Southgate, J. J.
Stark, Jae.
Strahl, C. G.
Sullivan, E. L.

Sutton, 0. P.
Thompson. Lucius
Tubbs, Hiram
Tucker, J. W.
Unger, Adolph
Uzoay, C.
Vail, Joo. F.
Van Buskirk, H.
Ward, I. l\f.
Wegener, F. O.
Welton, M. •
White, J. W.
Wightman, Jno.
Wilder, L. I.
Williams, J. S.
Williams, J. W.
Williams, W. A.
Wilson, C. L.
Wood, W. B.
Wright, G. S.-174.

'

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Eastland, J. G.
Flint, W. C.
Goldsmith, Jos.

Hall, E. Jr.
Hildreth, J. D.
Hoyt, Richard

Joffroy, Lorenzo
Leese, J. P.
Pollard, Aaron

Simpson, J. L.
Wilson, E. A. - 11.

E~TE!ll:D •.\.PPRE~TlCES:

Baker, Henry
Balley, W. J.
Blood,J. H.
Briggs, Edgar
Brigg.a, W.-H.
Brown,H. S.
Cazneau, T. N.
Coughlin, J . llf.

Ewer, F. C.
Kittrell, J, R.
Fleming, J. R.
Kohler, J. J.
George, H. A.
Lainbeer, Jno.
Gilbert, G. S.
Musgrove, J. D.
Goldsmith, W. E. Peabody, A. W.
Harns!)orough,W.B. Phillips, S. S.
Ingram, J.
Rabe, Wm.
Janes, J. L.
Root, S. E.

Adler, Hipolito
Barry, J. W.
Bristow, J. H.

Figel, S.
Lane, E.
Markwald, A.

Rosenstock,' M.
Sa.wyer, A. F.
Sterliug, J. F.
Taylor, J. l\I.
Thrall, H. H.
Whitney, Jas. Jr.
Young, Jae. H. -Sl.

6857.]

158

GRAND LODGE OF CALliORNI.A.
PaBt MaaterB 1

J. A. Raymond, P.D.G.M.
!laker, W. H.
Berry, Roht.
Bloom. II.
Boch, R.
Brewer, J. W.
Brickey, R. W.
Drown, A. n.
Drownell, H.
IJryce, Wm.
Chandler, Il. F.
Channel, Il. F.
Chappel, J. N.
Cheesbro. E. F.
Conger, P . F.
Crocker, E. F.
Ourtis.~, H. A.
Dangerfield, W. P.
Davis, M. C.

W. M. Allen.

W. G. West,

MASTER MASON~:
Dunn, D. H.
McAulift~ .D. R.

Farrington, N. C.
Forbes, G. D.
Glenn, J. T.
Goodin, A.
Hanson, Samuel
Hart, Thos.
Hickey, D. B.
Holmes, J. L.
.Jackson, J. W.
Johnson, H.
Johnson, J.
Johnston, W. K
Lander, H.
Lavery, .J. D.
Merrill, S. H.
Moore, Jos.
:\fosbach, A. H.

Seeley, Geo.
Selden, E. C.
Skeen, W. E.
Staple~, Levi
Stewart, W. W.
Taft,
H.
Tower, L. H.
Tull, J . W.
Van Wic, A . •r.
Wade, J.C.
Wescott, S. 13.
Wiener, J.
Wilson, G. A.
Wilson, II. II.
Wilson, W.-80.

Neil, B.
Newman, T. A.
Norton, J. H.
Nunnally, W. A.
Owens, Alex.
Parker, Wm.
Parkinson, G. W.
Patten, I. ll.
Pennington, J . T.
Pierson. J. W.
Robbins, E.
Roop, I.
Ross, Geo.
Ryan, J .
Scammon, G..r.
Scott, J. Y.
Seely, S.

w:

l'ELLOW CRAl'fl<:

Rodin, ;r. E.-3.

Kelly, C. P.

Fuller. A. F.

~:X 'l'EIU:D

APl'Jtt:NTlOt:l':

Blake, J. <J.
Cecil, .T. I!.

Dewitt, .T. 111.
Hodge, J 110.

Bradley, \V. L.
GettleRon. H.

GoldMtone, Lewi~

Hornbeck, A.
Roland, Wm. - fl.

WITHDRA W.N :

Nutt, J onathau
Wingatr, R. P. - G.

~!ooncy, D. D.

WlTllDRA WN:

llloulton, U. F.
Newell, L. W.

Tehama Lodge, No. 3.

Owner, Henry
Piper, W. A.~ 10,

Hacro.mento, Sncrantento CottntJ'•

."itated Meetings, .fii-st Monday in each month.

STRIC'KEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYME!iT OF DUES:

Amory, C. G.
Coffin, Rufus

Davis, J. H.
Gomez, H.

Loder. Geo.
Mallett, J. H.

lllcCarthy, Dennis
Van De Wat'er, J.-8.

OFFICER81

A. T. Nelson, lfor. Master.
J. H. Culver, Sen. Warde11,
0. M. Cornell, Jun. Wara'cn.
J. G. Brewton, \PreaJJurer,
T. A. Thomas,'&eretm71.

Geo. S. Phillips, Chaplain,
Jno. A. Tutt, Sen. Deacon,
T. A. Talbert, Jun. De,acon,
Miiller,
l "
d
.r.r.a{:oh
George, otezoar a,

r

0. D. Chafce, Tijl~r.
p,.... MR8l6'1'8 I

Western Star Lodge, No. 2.

Jno. A. Tutt, l'. G. M.
O. D. Chafer, G. Jl!fl.;rr,
T. A. Thoma~, J'. D.G.111. A. T. Nelson.
Joo. F. l\Iorsr,

Shaatn, ShaBta County.

Stated Meet,ings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Joseph lsa11cs, Wor. Maater,
W. D. Olendorf, Sen. Wara'en,
·L. G. Chapman, Jun. Wara'en,
G. C. Ji'arquhar, 1'r141Urll',

l\L H. Myrick, Sei:retary,
H. H. Shuflleton, Stn. DtaC011,
Dllniel P. Bystle, Jun. DraCM,
E. A. Kelton, fyhr.

~IASn:R

Aurich, A.
Baggs, Isaac
Bean, E. S.
Beckley, L. R.
Bennett, A. A.
Blossom, R. ll.

Borrodaile, Geo.
Bowles, J. 8.
Braudes, J.
Browner, G. F.
Cone, J. L.
Danielson, C. L.

20

.ros. Hull,
Geo. H . Cartter.

MASONS:

Davis, J. Z.
Farley, C.
Fi!!her , H. C.
Flanagan, T. B.
Foley, J. J.
Gamble, J.

Gober, W. H.
Grant, J. D.
Gray, B. S.
Greenbaum, A,
Greenhood, Wtu~
Hagan, Lewis.:·

154

• J011RNAt . OF PROOEEDINOS.

Harrington, C. C. Montgomery, G. E. Pu~h,_ J. W.
Harrison, A. C. . Morton, S. M.
Qumlm, W.
Hoffman, S.
McCarty, M.
Ratcliffe, W . M.
Humphreys, E.
McDonald, R. H.
Rhodes, J. P.
Johnson, J. N.
McHesse, A.
Ryan, Jno.
Kalkman, P.
McKune, J. H.
Sherwood, S. M.
Kyberg. Samuel
Ordway, Wm.
Smith, C. I-{.
Latta. Thos.
Painter, A. J.
Somes, G. W.
Peabody; T. J.
Stephenson, J. M.
Marks, M.
Marzen, Jo~.
Perdue, T. W.
Stovall, W.W.
Merriam, G. B.
Polhemus, J. L.
Stmuss, L.

6857.)
Taylor, J. N.
Tracy, E. W.
Weinrich, Henry
Wether, B. F.
Wetzler, J.
Wheeler, O. C.
Wb.ite, James
Wb.itlock, G.
Whittenburg, W.
Young, O.H.-83.

San Francisco Lodge, No. 7.
San Franclaco, San Franctaco County.

Stated Meetings, Ji.rat Wednesday in each month.
O .F FICERSa

Adolphus Hollub, Wor. M<J11ter,
S. S. Sullock, Secretary,
Thos. Calleu, Sen. Warden,
B. Hinebcrg, Sen. Deacon,
Hugh Doyle, Jun. Warden,
W. C. Dyer, Jun. Deacon,
Jas. Ballentine, 'Jlrea.iurer,
P. Gardner, (of California Lodge,) Tijler.
\

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Cantwell, W. R.

Hoyt, J. P. - 2.

Hastings, L. W.
Henning, F. C.
Marselas, G. W.

Bradford, J. B.
Deitrich, A. G.
Dubrosky, A.

Fletcher, C. A.
Graham, A.
Harkness, H. W.

Nichols, C. P.
Russell, J. M.
Stockfiesh, T.

Torbit, C. J . -10.

WITIIDRA WN :

Hobrecker, F.
Johnson, T. D.
Martin, Addison

McCall, D.
Nutt, J. -11.

DIEIJ:

Wright, G. G. -1.

Benlclo, Solano County.
OFFICERS a

II. B. Hawkins, Sen. Dew:m,
Wm. J. Tustin. Jim. Deacon,
Wm. l?rench, Marshal,
John Wright, l St
L
.A. P. Ryernon, f ewa.ru.•.
George Pare, Tyler.

· s. K. Nurse,

Wm. S. Well~.

MASTER MASOl"S :

Agnew, J. D.
Bedford, ThoR.
Davis, J. A.
Duff, Tho~.
Farmer, Tho!'.
Graham, Jno.

U:trvio", C: F.
Henry, JaA.
Holliday, H. M.
Kinstry. Thos.
Leslie, Lyman
:Miner, W.

McDonald, D. F.
Ncule, Joo.
Norman, R. Ji.
Nurse, W. B.
Pollock, JaR.
Robinson, Il.

Von Pfiatsr, E. ll.
-:16.

Luny, P.

Simon, U.
Simpson, Je.s.
Simson, Aaron
Solomon, A.
Stern, David
Thompson, J. S.
Treanor, Jas.
Urie, Ja~.
Wade, Joo.
Washburn, J. K.
Wnsscrnmn, A.
Whitney, W. J.
WilAOn, J. L.
Winkle, H.
WoodR, R. E.
Woolaver, Jno.-74.

Notting, W. H.

Roberts, Geo. G. -4.

Bowen, G. C.
Dukes, M.

Hudson, M. Il.

Diaglespicl, L.
Dndley, J.
Edclie, T. R.

Friedlander, W.
Goodman, J.
Hunter, W. H.

Wallace, Thoi<..

Yntes, Geo. E.-11.

WITJIDRAWN:

Levi, J.
Myers, I.
Ncwbonner, J.

Wertheimer, L.-10.

STRICKE~ !!!tO'.\f l:OLL l'Oll NO:ll-PAYllENT OF DUES.

Barry, E.
Caston, G. R.
Dolan, P.
Fritsch, J. W.

Gibbs, J.
Gilm:irtin, D.
Groalier, Chns.
Mendels, E. S.

Moylan, T. J .
Parker, J. W.
R:igsdale, E. R.
SJitz, Chris.

Smith, E. J .
Willock, T:
Will!on, J . A. - 15. ·

Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8.
Sonora, Tuolumne County.
~Aaf~d Meetings, Ji.rat Saturday in (ach MontTa.

• NTERED APPil:ENTIC.lt :

OFFICERS1

Scoby, J . W.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Van Doran, J. W.-3.

STlUOlt.EN l'ROM ROLL .FOR NON l'AYMEN'l' OJI Dtn:~ :

Ilynum, Saschel.-1.

J ohnson, Jno.

Meraich, M.
Moeller, A. D.
l\foSR, D. H. D.
Mott, P. D.
.McCabe, A. J.
McCarthy, E.
McKenzie, J.
McNeil, D.
Newhouse, JI.
O'Connell, A. F.
Parish, C. J .
Pierce, Nelson
Pottorlf. W. H.
Richardson, W.
Ruje, R. A.
Scott, Jno.

Vaughn,~.

Ilarry, J. -1.

Rodie, Robt.

Donahue, J.
Eger, A. .
Evans, P. J.
Frizell, J.
Glenn, Thos.
Gorham, W.R.
Green, W. A.
Harri~, Tbos.
Helbing, A.
Jacobi. D.
Jamison, M.
Johnson, J .
Kelly, T.
Mahan, I<'. J.
Marsh11.ll, C.
M11.ycrs, H.

Sage, Timothy
Stine, J.C.
Toppan, H. S.

l'l<:LLOW CltAFT:

lli.Il11r, Jae.

Anderson Chas.
Andrews. W.
Ashton, Chas.
Atkinson, J. H.
llrown, !<'. C.
llyrnes, T. E.
Cabaniss, J.C.
Canham, W.
Carter, A.
Castle, J. G.
Clement, Jos.
Cochmne, n.
Collins, C.•T.
Craine, Wm.
Curry, Samuel
D~groote, L. A.

ENTEltt:D APPltENTICES:

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Past Mast.,re •

Addison Martin, G. Trw..

F.rJLLOW-CRAl'Tll :

Benicia Lodge, No. 6.

John M. Neville, lfor. Master,
John J. Barry, Sen. Warden,
A. H. Estill, Jun. Warde1l,
A. L. Stiles, Treasurer,
H. S. Soanes, Seada.ry,

PaHt Jllaater& 1

Adolphus Holluh, P . S. G. W.

J. J. Papy,

~!ASTER MASO~S:

ENTERED AP.PHENTlCES:

Aula, V.
Bowne, C.H.
Gunn, G. W.

165

ORAND LODGE OJ' CALIFORNIA.

Hugh G. Plntt, Wor. M1131t:r,
A. C. J. Wilson, Sen. Warden,
R. R. Il.alls, Jun. Warden,
W. W. Traylor, 'Jlreaaurer,
W. T. Pinney, Sem!ar.11.

n-,

F. A. Prasser, Sm.
M. Hanover, Jun. Dtae0n.,
J.M. 'Stewart, Marshal,
R. Coonret, .
l S t . '·
J . E. Edmondson, l ei:ar....

W. A. Burt, 2i/ler.

156

[May,

.JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGB.

a857 .j

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Pnst lllnsten1 1

Cb.as. M. Radcliff, P. G. M.
Amy, c . .n.
Anderson, .T. N.
Burns, T. H.
Ce.le.way, 0. P.
Caldwell, 'f.
Cle.pp, J.J.
Clarke, T.
Classen, R.
Coe.ts. T.
Colbreath. J. C.
Collins, Wm.
Crawford, '1'.
Delahay, J. B.

H. G. Platt,

W. W. Traylor.

Smith, Mix-2.

Simpkins, C. H.
•:Nn:JtEJl APPl\ENTIC•~:

'JASTER MASO:SS:

Dodge, C. Jo'.
Doore, l<'re<l.
Doore, S. D.
f~vanA, G. S.
l<'ish, J. 13.
Fray, F. 11.
Green, Alonzo
Grr.enwood, 0.
Hal(}, :Mntthcw
Hall, T. S.
Henry, B. M.
Hutton, J. McD.
Jamison, A. H.

167

ORAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

Jamison, D. A.
.Te.ques, Claude
.TohnAon, C.
Johnson, P. F.
Keeler G. W.
Linoberg, E.
Me.rAhall. B. F.
:IIcCollough. I. N.
McLean. Geo.
Phillip~. S. G.
Rav, W. B.
Rutherford, C. B.
Sedgewick, J no.

Seivers, H.
Sekel, Geo.
Sellinp:, P.
Soles, H.S.
Stoker, J. R.
Sullivan, R. F.
'l'abard, P.
Thomas, LouiR
Tuttle, A. H. H.
Van Harlingen, J.
Wolf, 11. .
Yaney, I. P. - 63.

Lowery, J.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Rees, E. M.

Burlingame, Joel

Ruger, John.-3.

STltIOii:l':N FHO)I HOLL ~-on NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Becklit, T. K.
Coliandoly, C.

Legate, C. T.
Lindhill, J. A.

Norrie, F. A. B.
Stockton, J. E.-6.

\

}'ELLOW CRAFTS:

Myer, Peter

Wellf, N. W.

Wolcott, 0.-:l.

San Jose Lodge, No. 10.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Corker. David
Franklin, .T. J.

.Jone8, •r. S.

Bertine, P. 0.
Bruner. W. H.
Elkins,· A.

Goldwater, M.
Jeffrey, Wm.
Markley, W. J.

Myer, :Mose~

San Joae, Sonta Clnra County,

Noekin, A. - 5.

St£ited Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
WITHDRAWN:

:\lcDowell, D. S.
Purdy, J. W.
Steiger, 0. S.

Townsend, David
-11!.

!l'rHIC# )'ROM ROLL ~·on NON-PAYlllE!\T OF DUE8:
Hefi);~hon, W.
Smit-h, F. W. - 5.

Bancroft, E. A .. · · 1faney. W. A.. ·
Hammond, Wm.
·
•

OFFICERS:

.T. Y. Brown, Sen. Deacon,
D. J. Porter, Jun. Deacon,
R. B. Buckner, Marshal,
l'. C. Easley, Steward,
.Tao. Reddick. Tyw.

Jno. J3. Hewson, Wor. )faster,
If. J. Haskell, Sen. Warden,
Chas. F. Willey, Jun. Warden,
.rosiah Belden, Treasurer.
W. R. Davi~, Secreiary.

Pad llla»ter• 1

W. H. Howard, P.G.M. J. B. Hewson,

Denj: Cory.

H. C. ]\[elone,

MASTElt l\IASONS :

Marysville Lodge, No. 9.
lllar7•vllle, Yuba :County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in eacli month.
OFFICERS1

Wm. T. Fonda, Wor. Master,
J. R. Totman, Sen. Warden,
Henry Blackman, Jun. Warden. •
JM. Moore, 'Prta11Urer,

.r. Ruth, SeereiariJ,

11. N. 'l'Wiien, Sen. Deacon,
Jno. McQuin, Jun. De,acon,
F. Schreiber. (of Yuba Lodge,) 'l'ykr.

Alc.ese, Andrew
Auzerais, Edw.
Hailey, G. W.
Barrows, J. F.
Bassham, W. R.
Brownshield, Hy.
Byers, Robert
Delmonley, A.
Dresser, T. W,
Guerrez, J. D.
Hancock, .T. T.
Hardy, Mark

R. H. McDe.niels,
G. 8. Pierson,
P. W. Randle, P. J. G. JV:
MASTER MASONS:

Andris, Chas.
Barnes, A. P.
Brett, J. R.
Cady, Miles
Carpied, Frank
Carr, J.E.
Coville.nd, Chas.
Duerdorff, J. R.
Ee.ton, Ira A.

Filkins, C. E.
Goodwin, J. 0.
Hake, F. H.
He.kens, L.
Hathwell, C. A.
Kraft, Chas.
Lowery, G. W.
McCarthy, J. T.
O'Hanlin, R. T.

Peck, E. S.
Pierson, 0 . H.
Pixley, Seymour
Rice, D. W. C.
Robinson, Wm.
Scheussler, A.
Sherwood, J. W.
Simerly, Samuel
Simpson, - -

Smith, J. G.
Smith, S. B.
Snowhite, E.
Summers, H. B.
Tee.garden, E.
Tucker, Jno.
Warfield, J. D.
Wheeler, Alfred
Winans, Steph.-47.

Schcllenberger, 111.
Smith, H. C.
VanCannegan, P.
Warthen, A.G.
Watson, 0. P.
Wilburn, T. J.
Wilks, R. P.
Williams, Marcui<
Winn, A.111.
Wise, A.
Yocll, J. A .-60.

l\Iinor, P. 0.
l\Inrphy, W. A.
i\IcKinney, J:.', S.
Packwoo<I, S. T.
Papson, Wm.
Peck, A. W.
Peck, Geo.
Prevost, Louis
Price, J. R.
Putney. C. ]\[.
Heed, Elliott
Ryland, C. T.

~·1;LLOW CRAFTS:

llfoCutcheon, Wm.

llasler, Jos.

Past lllnstera 1

Geo. Fagg,

Hensley, S. J.
•Tacobson, R
Kibbe, T. R.
Kotinger, J. W.
La.bell, M.
Laurence!, H.
Lazeras, Leopold
Levy, .Te.cob
Lewis, Frank
Lewis, Jackson
Mathew~, Wm.
Miller, James

E'.'<Tll:RED APPRENTICES :

Williams, J. M.
Wilson, Thos. -10.

Kearney, .Tames
Kendall, C. W.

Bostick, L. C.
Cabn, L.
Healey, L. B.

Hester. W. T.
Hines, .Wm.
Ingersol, T. J.

Bergham, A.
Crouch, B. T.

Orr, Samuel
Stafford, W. ]\(.

WITHDltAWN :

Whitesides, C. H.-6.

Swain, H. P.

STRICKEN Fl<OM ROLL FOR NON-P.WMENT OF DUES:

F:ddy, W. H.

Johnson, H. W.

Lamartine, G. A .

Morrow, Wm. - 4.

DIED:

Christoph, F.

Woodnnt, E.

Yate8, A. J.

15~

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Napa, Napa <Jounty.

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFJCERS1

J as. Leffcrts, Secret.ary,
R. Smith, Sen. Deacon,
E. S. Cheesbro, Jun. Deacon,
Chas. H. Fitch, Tyler.

Past Masters 1

Jno. H. Seawell,
Alker, Tho8.
Allen, C.H.
Boroughs, S. C.
Brown, J. E.
Capelle, J. S.
Cbopson, T.
Clark, Cha8.

Crouch, Robert
Ford, O. G.
Goodrich, G. G.
Grant, David
Grim·ea, Brice
Holliday, W. H.
Howell, J. J.

Ce.lwell, J. H.
Carter, C.

Coombs, H.
Cross, E.W.

(;ulbertson, J . H .
Dunn, J. S.

Henley, R.
Rendfee.rn, G.

Dlghnm, R. W.
Fitz James, J.
Grar, Jonathan

Hardy, A.
Hill, Wm.

Hutchinson, J. P.
Kilburn, R.
Lawley, Jno.
Morse, Newton
Mount. Joseph
McLallen, M. T.
McLeod, Geo.

Wilson, A. B.-6.

Morgan, T.J.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Whartenby, Jas.

Woodruff, H. R.-6.

\VI1'HDHA WN:

Readehe.w, W. J.
Tansey, J. R.-11.

Ju8tice. W.
Lilly, D.R.

F. B. Gilmore.

MASTER MASONS:

159

ORA?fD MDOE OF OALIFORffIA.
l!'ELLOW CRAFTS :

Yount Lodge, No. 12.

Jos. lit. Dudley, lVor. Master,
Jas. M. Wilson, Sen. Warden,
Saml. D. Goodrich, Jun. Warden,
Robert West, 1'r1Xl8Urer,

6851.]

DUD:

Johnson, David-1.

Pl0.8S, c. w.
Robberson, A. F.
Rupe, S. H.
Souther, C. N.
Stillwo.gp:on, W. W.
Tucker, S.S. -37.

ENTERED Al'PR.l!:NTICES :

Edgerton, H.

Nichols, J. M.

Parks, D. B. - 3.

Temple Lodge, No. 14.

WIT'lDHA IVN :

Baldridge, W.
Evey, J.

Grigsby, A. F.
Grigsby, Jno.

Sonoma, Sonoma County.

Hargrave, W.
Nash, W. II.
M.cGa.ny, Edward Vaughn, W.•-tl.

Stated Meetings, fourtli &turday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Wm. Cassebobm, Secretary,
H. D. McNab, Sen. Deacon,
J. Selling, Jun. /Jeicon,
T. Neeb, Tyler.

J. S. Woods, lVor• .Meat.er,
S. Akers, Sen. Warden,
A. C. McDonald, Jun. W1rdcn,
H. Burns, 1're2eurer,

Nevada Lodge, No. 13.

Pnot lllaatei·s 1

Nevada, Nevada Coanty.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Tbos. P. Hawley, Wor . .Master,
A. D. Swan, Sen. Warden,
W. L. Phillips, Jun. Warde11,
J. Williamson, Treasurer,
J. F. Rudolph, Secretary,
J. F. Blythe, Ohaplain,

S. W. Boring, Senior Deacon,
E. K. Holm e~, Junior Draccon.
J. H. Helm, Afarsltal,
8amuel Nicliol8, t St
els
J. F. Huthawuy, I ewar '
J. W. H11st.ings, Tyler.
P•ut 1Un8tcr8 ;

Is1111.c Williamaon,
Doyle, Jos.
Dunn, T. 0.
Early C. D.
Edwards, P. N.
Elliott, G. N.
Ellmore, D. T.
Endicott, W.
Freeman, Fred.
Furth, S.
Hall, C.R.
Hill C. W.
Holmes. J .
Kilander, H. M.
Kilbourne, G. O.

W. Copelcmd.

Wm. Ross,
MAST.E R MASONS:

lleasley, Jesse
Benitz, Wm.
Derggr~u, T. F.
Boggs, Wm.
Burris, Wm.
Campbell, Peter
Coleman, Chas,

Horne, A. A.
,Jenks, J. L.
Kamp, II. L.
Kelsey, Sam.
May, Jno. •
Munuay, JaF.

Beck, Robert
Fitch, Fred.

LeValle, H.

Neville, J. N.
Orr, Samuel
O'I•'arrell, Jasper
Peabody, E. 'I'.
PendeF(rass, J. C.
Ray, Jno. ·

Renick, A. B.
Hupe, David
Smith, Jnson
Tnte, T. II.
Tennent, Archibald
Warder, R. R.-37.

.rm,LOIV CllAFTS :

Wm. G. Albo.n.

MASTElt MA80liS:

Asher, W. C.
Block, A.
Broo.dus, J. L.
Bucknell, E.
Burton, E. F.
Caldwell, J, I.
Calkins, M. D.
Carman, B. H.
CMwell, 'I'. H.
Chapman, A.
Conyers, B. L.
Crane, D. A .
Crenshaw, J. T.
Dawley, I. N.

Israel Drockmo.n,
11. E. Cook,

Knox, W.J.
Lamb, Alex.
Latta., 8. N.
Lillard, G.
Lindsay. R. S.
Little, R.
Maltma.n, C. S.
Multman; Wm.
Meredith, Henry
lliller. F. R.
liills, H. A.
Morri~on, W. l'.
Overton, C. 'I'.

Pa.lmer, G. lll.
Peters, F. W.
Plumhoft', Wm.
Read, W. H.
Ritter, Wm.
l~osenheim, Anron
Skeggs, E.
Smith, Wm.
Stewart, W. l\[.
Tweed,C. A. ·
VanH11gan, J.B.
Webber, Juo.
Whitney, J. R.-67.

Poppe, Julius

Willi11mR, J.-5.

WITllllllAWN :

Mullison, H.P. - 2.

Fine, J. ll.
SUl:!l'ENDED:

Blo.ckeney, J. C.-1.
DJl>D :

Cooper, Jas. - 1.

160

[May,

JOURNA1 OF :l>ROCEEDHWS.

6857.J

161

Git.AND tODGE OF C.ALfFORNIA .

Eureka Lodge, No. 16.

Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18.

Auburn, Placer County.

Downlevllle, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, third Monday in each montll.

Stated Meetings, Tiiesday of or next preceeding Full Moo11.

OFFICERS a

Hiram R. Hawkins, Secre.tary,
Simon E. Barrett, BP:n. Deacim,
Moses Hyneman, Jun. Deacon,
Simon Davidson, Tyler.

Jno. R. Crandall, Wor. Master,
M. P.H. Love, Sen. Warden,
Jacob Feldberg, Jun. Warden,
Vic tor j ones, Jreasurer,

Past Masters•

Jrio. R. Crandall, P. S. G. W.

OFFICERSt

IL G. Brown, Wor. MaKter,
Hamuel Sto.iley, Sen. Warden,
Garland Harris, Jun. Wa.rden .
Christian ReiA, Jreamrer,

Past lllaat.er• •

M. Hyneman.

H. R. Hawkins,
Mitchell, C. Ii.
Parkinson, W. K.

Thomas, P. W. - 15.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Lubeck, S. - 2.

Boggs, J . C.

WITHDRAWN:

Leviwn, Jacob - 1.

Loge La Parfaite Union, No. 17.
San Francl1C10, Comte de San Franctaco.

Rt1im'.on Ordinafre, le pi·emier Ve11drtdi de chaque moia.

MASTER MASONS:

Aiken, C. D.
Andrews, Hichard
Barrett, J. 111.
Bernhardt, LewiH
Booth, G. A.
Bramley, J . S.
Brown, J, W.
Clements, Q. A.
Collins, Stephen
Cooper, S. D.
Craycroft, J·. I£.
Mvans, }_;, ll.

Pierre Portois, 2de DW.ere,
Jean llfibielle. Orateur,
Amie Gazan, ·Marlchak,
Jacques Delange, l Maitru <k
T,ouis Gobert,
f Ceremoniu,
Jeo.n Bro.nger, Couvreur.

EX VENERABLE MAlTitES :

Hubert Kidel,

Joseph Haine,

Pasqual Quo.yne.

Frost, ll. G.
Gnlwny, Rich11rd
Gates, Erastua
Gralto.m, T. B.
Green, Benj.
Grippen, .E. M.
H11ll, O. C.
Hunter, W. R.
Kline, C. J.
Lo.roping, l'. A.
I,angton, R. IV.

Meraux, Jos.
Munday • .E. L.
McGrath, Wm.
PBrsons, Nathan
Rapp, Jos.
Rosentbt\l, Lewis
8ava.ge, J. 111.
Scell~n, J, l>.
~hinuncl, Jno.
8eltzer, Henr,v
8mith, g , J.

Southworth, E. V.
Spohn, Elljah
Stewart, S. C.
8tick, Wm.
Stowe, A. W.
Taylor, H. H.
'froppman, J.
Van Rankin, I>.
We.mer, IL
Weaver, V.
Whistler, Thos.- ii-l.

n:LI.,OW CRAFl'~:

Hickok, JI. D.

Proctor, F. M.

Strober, M. - 3.

ENTEREn APPRENTICES:

LES OFFICIERS 1

Fran<;ois T. Teclaw, V'ble Maure,
Constant Hubert, ler Surveillant,
Bernard Dennerey, 2de SurveiUant,
Henri Lucke, Jreasarier,
Prospere Co.rbiniere, Secretaire,
Cho.rles Thierry, lcr Diacre,

II. G, Brown.

Lewis Reynolds,

MASTER MASONS:

Holmes, H. T.
Johnson, W. A.

Anderson, J as.
Glaze, M.

E. J. Foote, Secretary,
.T. S. Van Dyke, Sen. Deaco11,
Peter Thatcher, Jun. Deaco11,
C. E. Wilcox, Tyler.

Howe, S. B.

McKibben, Jos.-2.
WITHDRAWN :

Adolph, Philip
Alleman, L.
Conrad, Jno.

Eddy, Otis
Ford, W. J.
Haskell, IIiro.m

Kennedy, .\Ialachi
Langton. A. T .
l\Ia.klin, H enry

Young, W. 1'. -- 10.

S'!B.lCKEN FROM nor,L t"OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

llnhlengcr, Simeon l<'lagg, J. l\I.
lJampbcll, Wm.
J,emon W. C.

Powell, J no. - 7.

Miller, Hiram
Polley, J, B.
EXPELLl:D :

MA'iTRE MA90NS :

Bruiggemo.ne, J. H. Drio.rd, Sosthene
Go.gneux, E.
Ca.sse, Fran~ois,
Domer, Bertrand Harris, A. H.

Alexandre Elie,
Bera.ad, Louis
Berthelot, J.
Blum, Jacob

Vessa.ert, A.
Za.crisky, A.
Zwicky, G.-28.

Gardner, J. 111.
Dil!1D :

J.:mcrick, W. J.

J.:wart, Hugo.:.._ 2.

COMPAGNONS:

Kiiner, A.

Fo.y11rd, J. B. A.

Pincha.rd, J. Il.

A.l'l.'HENTICES ·:

.i\lorin,--

Fournier, A.
Fournier, C.

Samuel, Davirl

Thom11R, Simon - 6.

Rn~s, .J.

RETRAITES:

<l uillet, A. S. A.

Dahlman, C.

San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19.
Stockton, San Joaquin Count>··

Levy, Leopold-~.

Staled Muti-n_qa, Monday nut precedin,q Ji''!tll 1110011.
OFFICERS•

RAYE POUR NON-PAYMENT J.a: QUOTISATION:

Wm. Gralmm, Wor. Master,

Bonchnrd, Hypolite - 1.

'!'. 'l.'. Bouldiu, Sen. Warden,

EXPUl.SE:

~:. JI{. Howison, Jun. Warden,
;\[, Goldman, 'l'reruurer,

Chieto, Thomas - 1.
DECEDE:

Do.wee, W.

Lequin, Constant

Gilbert Palache, Secretary,
AnBn Hine, Sen. Deacon,
W. R. Jefferson. Junior D-,
A. G. Brown, Tyler.
Past Jllruiter1 1

uerardin, A. (app.) - 3.

F. C. Andrew,

21

.J. K. Shafer,

16Z

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROdtEDINOS.

.FELLOW CRU'TS:

MA.STER MASONf\:

Benson. H. C.
Beritzofl', A. C.
Brown, S. J.
Choate, G. R.
Clark, W. B.
Craner, A.
Friedlander, J.

Gage, A. S.
Grunsky, Chas.
Hoercher, A. H.
Jenkins, J. G.
Kelty, E. C.
Kennedy, J.B.
Kitchings, D.

Rotbenbush 1 Ji'.
Shaeffer, F.
Schwartz, Philip
Tyler, J. A.
Vance, W. M.
Vandyke, J . M.-36.

Lester, Andrew
Lewis, A.
Mathews, H. 0.
Morris. J.C.
McKamey, J.M.
Peters, J. D.

Bonacina, F.

Bradford, A. C.
Caldron, E. L.
Claiborne, G. B.

Henry, B. l\I.
Leach, J. B.
Marshall, J. R.

Graves, J. L.

Asbury, G. M.
Cropsy, J. R.

Deal, Samuel
Fitch, W. C.

Ball, N. A. II.
Bolez, A.
Brewster, J. A.

Cone, Geo.
Gilmore. D. W.
Locke, B. S.

Colgan, Jos.
Collins, L. p.
Hammond, A. l\L

Meredith, Henry
MH!s, J. M.

Palmer, W. J.-4.

Keeler, Jno.
WITHDRAWN :

Madden, J erome
May, S. J.
Moon, Jackson
Morgan, E. S.
Powell, Ransom

Morse, Chas.
Waters, W. R.-11.

Rich, Snmuc~
Warner LoUIR - 9.

STRlCU:N }·1t0M HOLL l'Olt NON-PAYMENT OF DVES.

Winham, W. P. L.
Wynu, Walter.-11.

Rhees, H. H.
Rosenthal, S. R.
Winham , M. A.

Rhea, H. P.-6.

ENTERED APl'JtENTIClS:

Wl'l'IIDlt&WN:

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Alexander, J. O.

163

GRAND LODGE OJI' OALIFORNIA.

5857.]

Bird, S. H. - 1.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL ~·on l'WN·PAYME!\T O.F DUES :

Corcoran, F. E.

Candee, .J . G.
Colt,E. W.

Creanor, C. M.

Web~ter, Geo.-5.

Hawaiian Lodge, No. 2L
Honolulu, H!lwallan Ialand•·

Stated Meetings, jfrst Monday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Washington Lodge, No. 20.
Sncrnmento, Snerumento County.

Stated Meetings, first Tltursday in each month.

Geo. Williams. Wor. Master,
Henry F. Poor, Sen. Warden,
J. C. Pfluger, Jun. Warden,
G. H. Luce, Treaeurer,
Abr. Fornander, Secretary,

OFFICERS 1

N. Greene Curtis, Wor. Ma8ler,
Ham. C. Harrison, Sen. Warden,
L. W. Ferris, Jun. Warden,
David Maddux, Preawrer,
Dan'l. St. C. Steevens, Secretary,

Justin G11te@, Sen. Deacon,
Jno. Rothenhucher, Jun. Deacun.
,J. D. Treat,
tS
d
J110. Trautman, j tewar &.
J. L. Thompson, Tykr.
Past 11laste rs a

N. Greene Curtis, G. lll
G. I. N. Monell,

H. H. Hartley,
Isaac Davis,

A. D. PatterHon.

MASTER 3IASON~:

Abbot, C. E.
Alden, Tho•.
Arcega, J.M.
Atkins, J. R.
Backus, Gordon
'Harr, J. C.
Blake, Gorham
Rlock, Emanu<'l
mom, J.
Ilockrath, ll. H.
Booth, L.A.
nowstead, J. IL
Bradford, C. H .
Buddwent, C. L.
Coachm11n. J. C.
Craig,J. L.
Crouch, B. T.
Day, J. ['.
Denver, Frauk
Diehl, I. S.
_1;;akins, W. JI.
Elkus, L.

c.

Eyre, E. E.
Hogg, W. M.
McNnlt.y, W.
Forsyth, J. H.
Runt, D. N.
Read,J. A.
l~owler, J. A.
Hunt. J. A.
Redding, Il. R.
Gal.es, D. V.
Hutchinson, C. J. Richardson, A. G.
Gift, G. W.
Ingham, C. '.r.
Rum~ey, L. W.
Goss, Leonard
J111nison, J . S.
Rns><ell. J. I'.
Greenwald, Simon Johnson, Alhert
UuHt, P. C.
Grice, Henry,
Johnson, Tho~.
Sackett, C. C.
Griffith, Humphrey .Johnson, R l'.
f\hepherd, J. 111.
Griffith,J. T.
Kidder, N. A.
Stanwoorl, N. D.
Griswold. Gill•ert J,ardner, F. S.
8tarrctt, Milton
Hall, J. T.
J,uuriat, L. A.
Taylor, L. W.
Hammond, A. i\f.
Little, Samncl
'l'homprnn, ,J. l'.
Hardy, J. H.
I.on;.;, W. S.
Walt~r, Amlrrw
Hardy, J. l'.
J.ord, J. D.
Water", John
llarriR, L. Il.
Mit.chell, J. A.
Wclhourn, L. C.
Haskell, D. H.
?.litchell, J. ll.
White, C. S.
HaydL•n, A. l\L
lllorri", J.M.
White, W. S.
Henry, H. O.
McClellan, WillF, J.M.
McGrew, J.
Hereford, Frank
Wilson, A. 11.
Hill, Tho•.
Mclllcans, S. A.
Zander, T. P. -100.
Hillyer, 111. C.

Wm. Duncan, Sen. DMc<m,
Daniel Quinlan, J un. Deacon,
E. Hoffman, Marshal,
B. Rich~ond, t Steward,,
C. F. Gu11lou, f

--

- -, 'Jlyler.

Pad lllllster• 1

Wm. Wond,

Alex. J. Cartwright.

)!AST}:R MASONS:

Adams, B. P.
Andrews, L. Jr.
Babcock, W.
Barton, C. S.
Bernard, B.
Brayton, G.
Collins, J.
Comstock, H.

Cooper, Jas.
Cornell, J.B.
Durham, B. F.
Emmes, G. J.
J<'eldbeim, S.
Gilman, G. D.
Green, II. J.
Greig, W.

Ford, S. P.

French, A. S.

Hardi, E. F.
Harvey, M. R.
H enck, T. C.
Johnson, T. W.
Lange, G.
Lewers, C.H.
Macfarlane, H.
Melchers, G. C.

lllontgomery,Jno.
lllcLcun, G. C;
Reiners, G.
Hobbins, N. H.
Sweeney, G.
Thurston, A. G.
Webster, Wm.-4S.

Y.NTJ;:n•:D APP&E:ST!CES:

Mauer, L. G.

Rice, W. B.-4.

WlTllDltA WN:

Anstiu, J. W.
Miller. G.
Moch; J. A.
lrwin, Jos.
Kamehameha, Lot Neilson, H. A.

Rooke, T. C. B.
Sea, Henry

Seymour, T. S.
Turner, T. J.-10.

Occidental Lodge, No. 22.
So.n Frllnellco, S!lll Fro.nclsco County.

Stated Meetil1ga,fo1trth Monday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Albert G. Randall, Wor. Master,
Wm. M. LaRoche, Sen. Warden,
Jno. B. Newton, Jun. Warden,
Samuel Loring, Trea8urer,
Edward S. Benson, Secretar!J.
Annis l\Ierrill, Chaplain,

Jas. Laidle;y:, Sen. Deacon,
Stewart Smith, Jun. Deacon,
Jas. G. Pearson, Marshal,
I,saac G. Thrasher, l Steward&.
Edward M. Hayes, )
Joel Noah, 'Jlyler.

164

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.
Paat Mastera:

James Rice, Jr.,
Jas. E. Wainwright,
Smyth Clark,

Geo. W. Baker,
Aibert G. Randall,
J. 11. Gibon, P . G. Ser.

Gregory Yale,
Joel Noah.

MASTER MASONS :

Bailey, Orrin
Baird. J . II.
Bates, G. C.
Browne, J. V.
Campbell, Alex.
Chapin, S. II.
Chauviteau, F.
Clark, J. A.
Cook, Elisha
Crozier, R. G.
Eldridge, J. 0.
Ellis, J. S.

Farwell, J.M.
Fenner, C. G.
Finley, J. W.
Franklin, Lumley
Gamble, J. S.
Gates, H. S.
Gore, B. B.
Grant, Jas.
Hackett, J. K.
.Hagan, A.H.
Hampton, R. B.
Ifarris, S. R.

Heyl, W. S.
Holland, Nath.
Hooper, A. ,J.
HopkinR, R. C.
Hnghe8, J . L.
Hnot, D. B.
.Johnson, T. IL
Lnll, L. R.
Middleton, Jo~.
)foore, E. J.
Mount, C. E.
Negus, S. W.

Nickerson, Mulf.
Noe, Jas.
Norcross, Daniel
:-;' orton, Joshua
Parker, T. B.
i'earkeF, Geo.
Roberts, D. S.
Rowell, Isaac
Sherman, Wm.
Sinton, R. H.
Soule, Frank
Wood worth, F .A.-65

Harvey, J . C.
Saffrons, I.

McClure, J. W.
McCoy, Jno.
McDonald, C. P.
Mcl<~lroy, F.
McLaughlin, E.
McMurtry, J. H.
McMurtry, J. W.

Osborne, A. P.
Penberthy, Wm.
Phelps, J.
Richard~, J. J.
SauderM, A.
Scadden, Henry
Scott, H.

llow11n, Stephen

Kobler , Wm.

Seguin, B.
Stevens, W. H.
Lammot, R. S.
:\fcDougal, Geo.
8beldon, J.
Spofford, W. K

165

CALUORNJA .

Stewart, M. L.
Sweet, H. H .
Tilley, W. J.
Tompkins, E. A.
Watt, Wm.
Wood, W. W.-63.

Silvester, Henry
Smail, B. B.
Smith, C. F.
Solomon, A.
Spencer, W. K.
Spofford, E.W.

}'.J::LLOW Cl!AFTB :

Itupp, J . D.-4.

Lambert, J. 8.

f:N•n :mrn APPltl!NTICJ::fi:

llard, L.L.
C!Rpp, W. ll.
l•~l~e, Matthew

Freeman, H. F.
Hancock, II. H.

~:11vcs, Wm.

Fisher, .Tacoh
Goad, W. l<'.

~:mn gcr, J. H .

~·nu~, J.

s.

Nisuanger, Wm.
Smith, C. W. - 9.

Hubbard, F'. A.
Mahew, J. S.

WITilD!lAWN:

8hedd, T. A.
TibbalR R. - 9.

Land, T. H..
8eyton, C. S.

or DU~:s:

Peterson, C. M. - 1.

Watson, G. F .
Woocl, W. G.-8.

SUSPENm:D:

ENTEIU:O APPRENTICE8:

AddiH,Jno.
Freelon, •r. W.
Alexander, Geo.
Garwood, G. M.
.Brooks, W. H.J. Howell, L . V. H.
Chamberlain, C. M. Huxley, J . i\l.

O~'

~1'1llCIO:N ~·noll HOLL FOR NON-PAYMENT

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Bowie, A. J .
Brinsmade, A. A.

ORAN]) .Looc.u:

fi8f>7.]

•

'!'hayer, F. W.-1.
Squire8, H . N. ·- 13.

DIED :

Fou11e, J. M. - 1.

Wl'rllDRA WN :

Battelle, T. K.

Brower, II. II.

Hyim, Edmund-3.

STRICKEN ~'ROM ROLL FOU NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Byrne, H. II.
Fitch, H. S.

Simpton, Geo.
Sloan, E. W. F.

Webb, H. A.

White, 'I.'. J. - 6.

Mariposa Lodge, No. 24.

DIJm :

Marlpooa, Marlpo1a County.

Bowie, Hamilton H.

Stated Meetings, S:lturday next preceding Full Muon.
OFFICERS a

John N. Moore, Secretary,
Wm. A. King, Wor. Master,
J. H. Appling, Sen. Deacon,
Jus. W. Thomas, Sen. Warden ,
'l'bos. J. Farnsworth, Jun. Deacm.
Jo~bua D. Crippen, Jun. ll'arde11.
.Miles Goodman, 1'farshal,
Jules Dettlcback, Trearurer.
Hugh Dav1111ay, Tijler.

Madison Lodge, No. 23.

Pnst Maatere :

GraH Valley, Nevada Connty.

Stated M~tinga, first Tuesday in ea.ch mo11th..

:UAB'l'ER MASONR:

OFFICERS a

Wm. McCormick, Wor . .Master,
Zenas Wheeler, Sen. Dearon,
Wm. H. Hollis, Sen. Warden,
T. R. Walker, Jun. Deacon,
,Joo. P. McLaughlin, Jun. Warden,
Wm. E. Bank~, Marahal,
J. S. Dorsey, TretUUrer,
R. Musgrave,
lS
ch
S. Brigham, Set:retary,
Samuel Taylor, f tewar •
E. H. Whiting, Tyler.
Past l!la1ter1 a

Zenas Wheeler,

S. C. Richardson,

Wm. McCormick,

0. H. Dibble.

MASTER MASONS:

Barnstead, T. S.
Blackford, Joo.
Boardman, J. H.
Bradly, A. B.
llurgess, T. J.
Burnett, Jno.

Qoock, H. H.
Crandall, G. N.
CroBBette, W. C.
Delano, A.
Dibble, A. B.
Edwards, C. R.

Erwin, T.
F indley, Thos.
F letcher, Stephen
Goad, J. C.
Hodgson, Henrv
Humiston, L. ·

Samuel A. Merritt, !'. J. O. W.

Green ll. Abel,

.TC!lllel, M.
Larrimer, J. W.
Lauke, E. V.
Lockwood, J. W.
Mansau, Z.
Meyers, S.

) '

Adams, J. T.
Aeilkema, B. D.
Appling, R. A.
Appling, E. R.
Bell, S11muel ·
Howlin, J. S.
Bowling Jno.
Rowling, J. L.
Bowman, J. C.
Boyce, A. D.
llrown , E. D.
Brownfield, S. G.
Ciu-roll, H. A.

Connelly, R. S.
Creighan, Jas.
Crenshaw. G. H.
Davis, J. H.
Dickenson, 0 . M.
Easley, Tho~.
Hewitt, E. E.
Hillm11n, Thos.
Howard, I. M.
Howeth, Nelson
Hubbard, Wm.
Hubbell, N. B.
Jackson, A.

Jenkins, J.C.
Lewis, M. B.
Linen burg, L.
Magner, Jno.
Marshall, J. J.
Morris, B. F.
McCro.cken, J as.
McDonald, J. H.
McNamara, J. F.
McNichol, Jno.
Norris, J. K.
Parlrnr, W. T.

llroderes, R. C.
Brown, Andrew

Burchard, W. C.
Hart, E . f.
Grosenmiers, J. F. Papers, J. M.

Rountree, W.,,A..
Simpson, Jas.
8teptoe, J. r.
Stiner, C. M.
Stockton, J. III.
Sweet, S.
'l'orney, J. W.
Valentine, C. T.
Westfall, J. J .
Williams, G. W.
Wormser, Simon
Young, A. B.- lil.

FELLOW CRA}"fS:

Shilling, J. D. -7.

•

166

[Mag,

JOURNAL OF PltOCEEDINGS.

6857.J

GRAND :lODG:E; 6F OALtFORNIA.

E:-ITER~:D APPRENTICES:

Ashman, J. S.
Dickey, H. H. ,

Eagar, D. J.

Bradley, D.S.
Howry, Abmm

Hussey, Patrick,
Lane, A. J.

Parker, D. G.-5.

McElwy, A.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Davis, M.

Russell , H. B.

Nagle, J . B.
Thornton, T. G.

Nye, Samuel P.-1

Vinsenbaler, L. D.

-"'1.

DIED :

Bunch, Isaac H.

STRICKl!:N FUOllI ItOLL }'Olt NON-PAY.IIENT Q}' DUES :

Higgins, _Asa
Long, T. W..

Stewart, R.-3.

}JXl'ELLED:

WITUDllAWN:

Ashworth, S.
Bondurant, J. M.

167

McSJagle, M. K.-2.

Walcot, C. H.-6.

McVicnr, Jas.
SU!,WENDED :

Green, R. L.-1.

El Dorado Lodge, No. 26.

DIED:

Hargis, W. S.-1.

Placerville, El Dorado County,

Stated llieelings, lllo1;day of or nezt preceding Full ../l(oon.
OFFICERSs

•

Georgetown Lodge, No. 25.
Georgetown, El Dor11do County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of 01· next preceding Fu7l Jlfoon.

Wm. A. January, Wor. Master,
Jno. Bush, Sen. Worden,
C. W. Barnes, Jun. Warden,
L. Lannewald, 1're1UUrer,
I. S. Titus, Ser:rtJar!I,

J. S. Devoe, Tyler.

Ol•'FICER~ s

Uicbunl DoncaHter, Jr., Set:rdary.
ltu8~cll WilliamM, Sen. Dtacon,
A . <J. Kitti!', Jun. Deacon,
Wm. T. Gibbs, Pyl~,

Jus. Z. Kelly, Wor. Jlfa1Jt<:r,
Jno. D. HardP.n, Sen. Warden,
Jno. C. Simpson, Jun. Warden,
A. D. Rock, Trea&ur<:r,

Pad .lllasters a

Jno. P. Davidrnn,

I'. W. Cunningham,
MASU:lt MASONS :

Dartie, Geo.
Barnry, C. S.
Burney, J. N.
Derry, S. A.
Bird, A. D.
Bollen, Thos.
Dossout, A.
Doswell, N. C.
Dreese, A.
Breese, T. W.
Buyutte, Louis
Chancller, W. II.
Cox, W. H.

Cran8ton, 'l'. J.
Day, R. J.
Deverter, M.
Dodd, W. W.
Eisner, Jo~.
Perguson, S. H.
. Fortunes, Wm.
Glaz1i, M.
Gore, Jno. G.
Gunsell, J . H.
Hook, Geo. W.
Hughes, J . H.
Jamison, S. M.

Lancaster, W. M.
L11ugley, Wm.
Lntchin, G. T.
Manecke. !'red.
Martin, David
McCvnncll, '.l'ho~.
)foMurruy, J. D.
Oliver, J. W.
Palmer, W. l\f.
l'eebles, S . S.
Pctrogenia, I'.
Porter, Tho8.

Ray, F. G.
Hayburn, L . C.
Roblnso1!! E. J.
Rouch, Wm.
ltuperi, G. W.
ltuRsell. W. H.
8mitb, J. F .
8tcel, J. N.
Stock Lon, J a~.
•ruruer, Jared
VanGuiltler, A. A.
Wood, W. T.-60.

FELLOW·CRAFTS:

Castle, J. M.

Myrick, J. W.

Nod, J. 'l'.

Hay, J. W.-4.

ENTERED Al'rRENTICES:

Buras, J. A.
Courtwise, J .
Downs, D. S.
Elson, J.M.

Grcenw1Jod, E.
Guthrie, R. M.
Hershey, C. B.
Hewit, R.

W. P. Vernon, Sen. Deaccn,
Thos. Caystile, Jun. Deaccm,
W. H . Smith, Marahal,
L. C. .l<'isk,
} St
d
L. S. Cardwell,
ewar 11

Hubert, G. A.
Kittle, A. C.
Loftus, J no.
Mooney, )1.

Parker, S. E.
Simmons, J.
Stewart, E. K.-15.

MASTE!t MASONS:

Allen, J. H.
:\.rvidRon, C. J.
lliiilcy, ,J. G.
l111rneH, J. N.
Bnrllil, l<'. F.
Jliron, Hyman
Cnrr, L . T.
fJarthcchc, J no.
Coughlin, D.
Crosby, A. C.

Dal'iR, T.
Dcgolia, D.
Dorsey, A. S.
Doyle, Herm11n
.Frank, Wm.
Gelwicks, D. W.
Hardin, Richard
Harmon, F. H.
Hawley, A. H.
HopkinR, L. R.
/

Recd, T. i\1.
8m1th, H.
Thomp~ou, Jos.

Williamson, J. R.
Wilson, 'l'. W.-23.

Hunter, Alex.
Johnson, J.C.
Johnson, Wm.
Knhn, Aaron
King, John
Levisson, M.
Little, Hiram
Luck, Frank
!\foll, Frnncis
Newell, D. K.

Ober, C.H.
Parker, E. G.
Plumado, F. II.
Ream, Samuel
Roy, Jno.
Stout, G. W.
Su lzbacher . Jos.
Thatcher, A. i\f.
Van Vleck, H.
White, Robert.-52.

FET,LOW CRAFTS:

Grabenheim, A.

Mcncbnm, B.-'- 2.

EliTEnt;{I APPRENTICES:

Craudall, 0. A.

Dorsey, J. M.

L e Cam, A. llf.

Shields, J. W. -

4.

WITIIDRA '\\'N :

Bee, A. W.
Buchn.mm, J.
Burwell, W. J.
ConverRe, W.R.
Finch, CalPb

Fleischer, W.
Greenberg, 11.
H enderson, Wm.
Hewett, J. C.
Kohn, David

Levy, H.
Phillips, Isaiah
Sanders, J. L.
Shober, J. L.

Sischo, N. N.
Thompson, R. L.
Tracy, T. F.
Wilstater, H. -18.

~·rHTCICEN l'llO)f ROLi. rnrt NON-PAYMENT· OF Dm:s :

Burnham, A . •J.

Kisinger , Jno. - 2.

11u;n ,
Keene, B. F.

Wl'l'llDJU WN :

Boles, J. N.
FrRnkentbnl, M. M. McCully, J.- S.
Bollen, Thos.
Graff, Loui8
McCurry, B. C.
Brookshire, R.' It. Hill, A. J.
.\IcDonald, A . II.
Kellv, II. C.
)fcDonald, J. A.
Cox, J. \V.
Keyaer, Denj.
Newman, H. E.
J.mis,N. w.
Lackey, W. G.
Pardee, R. G.
Fewell, J.M.

Pait Ma11ter 1

J. R. Duker.

Vernon, J. B. - 2.

i68

[May,

JoURNAL OF PROOEEDiNGS.

6857.)

169

GRAND Lot>GE 01' cAt:troRNIA.
MASTER MASONS:

Trinity Lodge, No. 27.
Weaverville, Trinity County.

Stated Meetings, last Monday in each month.
·.OFFICERS:

Jno. A. Watson, Secrel.ary,
L.B. Thor£e, Sen. Deac<m,
Jas. W. Finley, Jun. DeaCO'fl,
L~vi Reynolds, 'l'ykr.

ll. J. Seaman, Wor. Master,
B. W. Winston, Sen. Warden.
J. C. Burch, Jun. Warden,
A. J. Loomis, 'l'reamrer,

Past .!Ua&ters :
.I, &. Pitzer.

M. W. Personette.,

M. Ruch ,

MASTER MASONS.

Potter, D. W.

Bilay, A. F.
Carr, Jno.
Chillis, J. F.
Dannenbrink, C.
Darling, H.
Davidson, H. JJ.
Davis, J. R.
Dexter, S. S.
Edwards, F. 'l'.
Felter, A. J.
Given, W. C.
Gordon, J.B.
Goring, Chas.

Grant, Jno.
Grant, Wm.
Harris, F.
Harris, J . S.
Hessey, J.
Hocker, Henry
Howland, D.
Kelly, E. A.
Lang, Max
Lee, Craven
Lowe, W. M.
Maloney, Wm.

Mason, J. C.
May, W. B.
:Miller, R. T.
Monroe, A.
Musser, Jno.
Myers, Jno.
McGillivray, Jo;;.
McKenzie, F. S.
McMurray, Jno.
Neblett, E.
Norcross, 0. 11. ]'.
Olmstead, W. II.

Stuart, R. G.
Hturdivant, J. A.
Yan Schaick, W.
Ware, Wm.
Wells,F. W.
Wells, R. B.
West, W. J.
White, Juo.
Wilson, R. W.
Woou, J.C.-60.

Gilman, S. S.
Griffin, 1\f. F.

Lauver, J 08.

· Live, Chas.

l'eschle, F. W. -5.

Epley, Jno.

Holler, Phillip

~impson, W. G.

Genning, A. W.
Gilleepie, C. K.
Glover, B. S.
Goodrich, A.O.
Grny, J. A.
Ikckcndorn, J.
Hildebrand, M.
Howland, L. L.
Hurford, J. E.
Jol,ly,John
~e1th. J. W.
Kendal, J,, N.
Leavitt, Alb~rt
Leon, S.
Levy, Isaac

Blatchley, A.
Cttr!Py, Josl1.
Coffroth, J. W.
lJolhy, S. S.
Collins, J. T.
ConnPr, J. L.
Day, Eben'r
Dillon. JoP.
DryPr, T. B.
Duchow, J.C.
l>uncan, Jacob
Eddy, Ja8.
1''arnsworth, A.
F'letcher, A.
Frost, Jacob

Farquhar, Ale:t.

Belcher, L.

Tinnin, W. J •.-9.

Diamond Lodge, No. 29.

DI.llD :

llpa inlJa, El Dorado Couat7"

Slated Meetinga, &lurday of or nezt preceding Full MOO'/\.
OFFICERS a

ChaR. !<'.Irwin, lVor. Malter,
E. H. Evans, Sen. WaJlllm;··

J. (], Schoocb. -1.

Laird, 1. W.
Mylar, Israel

Carter, J. T.
Daken, P.

Ralib, J.oui8. - 4.
~ewlmur, H.

Merchant, S. D.-4.

Sponsler. F. R.
Wynne, J. A.-8.
STRICU:N YltOM r.or.1. l'OR NOS-PAYMENT OF DU~:s.
Hunnewell, A. A. Oxley, T. J.
Robinson, R. A.
Wilson, Geo.-4.

Allen, Henry
Camp, E. S.

D~amond

Kreider, S. D.
Moore, M. '1'.

Wedlakc, Jno.-s.

Y.NTERf:n APPJUiNTICIC8: .
Brigg@, }~. B.
Her~chftold, B. ,J,
WITHDRAWN:

WITllDRA WN :

Broauwater, W. P. Harris, F. W.
Eder, P. M.
Henderson, .T. A.
Fisher,J.

n:

FELLOW.CRAFT~,

Bowen, l'. M.

JoJNTBRKD APPJ\l!JNTICES:

Mclll!cc, J. G.

Lewis, Y. A.
Reasoner, N.
Lockley, E. B.
Roberts, J.
Loring, J, M.
Robinson, R. A.
Ma.rkhom, W. F. Sampson, G. H.
Marshall. J. W.
Skinner, Ed.
Miller, H. S.
Sleeper, W. O.
Millington, J.
Sparks, J. G.
Mill~, Edgar
Taylor T R
Mullln, E.
Towle.'
H:
Mylar. Tho~.
VanAmringe, W.
McLaughlin, J. VI. Wellington, E .
Parsons, M. W.
Wells J
Plumer, G. B.
What~ley, w.
Raymond, V. R.
Williams F.-70.
'

W. R. Rison, Jun. Warden,
J as. Ellis, Treiuurer,
P .•T. Meighan, Sf,Cf'etary;

11. Kross, Sen. Dea;mi,
Jae. Akin, Jun. DttU:On,
R. D. Crittenden, ..Marlhal,
J. White. l "'
d
H. Gylor, f dewar '·
A. Siesbuttel, 'I'!Jkr.
Paat 1lla•ter1

Aaron D. Park, S. G. JY.

Columbia!Lodge, No. 28.
Colunibla, Tnoluu1uc County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each nwnlh.
OFFICER!01

C. ll. Il.ill'y, Sm. Dtatxm,
Jas. A. Jackson, Wor . .blaster, ·
Jl. S. Glover, Jim. Deacon,
Jas. Campbell, Sen. Warden,
.fl'r1·mi11h Floyu, J.farshal.
M. S. Toman, Jun. Warden,
N. B. Gardner, } S
d
P. C: Ferguson, 'l'reasu.rer,
Y. ]), llrund11ge, dewar 8 '
}'. W. H. Aaron, Secretary,
· 8. Jellison, 'l'yler.
Augustus Uarupbell,

MASTER MASONS:

Allen, L.
Arvidson, A. C.
Dowe, E. Y.
Dickey, A. S.
Ellen, E.

Graham, A. J.
lfaW!, G.
Hamm, S. J?,
Harkerson, C.
Hu11e, S. E.

Larkin, H.
Remington, O. F.
Mallory. E. Y. H. Richardl'On. H • .M.
Shields, F. )I[. · · ·
Meeks, E. E. L.
Mo88, Jno.
White,S.H.P.-31.
McDaniel, C. M.

FELLOW-CRAFT":

Baker, H.J.

Carter, G. H.

Riley, W.C.-a.

WITHDRAWN:

Abrams, L.
Bowman, E. P.
Bradley, L.

Broocke, L. E.
Davison, J.

Ja,:, A. Jackson.

22

J,obdell, W. H.
Peck, S. S.

EXPELLED:
Streu~. Philip -

i.

Ross,L.
Schmidt, N. - ~·
.c

5857.J

17&

Pl! $t Jllnstcr 1

J .C. Reid.

Golden:Gate Lodge, No. 30.

MASTEii MASO:!iS:

San F1011..i,co, Son Frnucl&co Count y .

Silted Meetings, first Ji1csday in each month.
UFFICEilS1

J,awrenee C. Owen, Wor. Master,
~. Il. Cfark, Sen. Deacr:m,
Geo. S. Hull, &n. Warden,
Ja~. A. Wright, Jun. Deucon,
Henry J . .Mor~on, Jun. lVarde11,
'l'ho~. Bigley, /Jursliul,
Walkr lJ. Cu:nmings, '/lreal!Urer,
.
John Madison,
l St . a,
Jae. C. Oeorge, SeCMai\', ·
Ualeb S. Hobbs, j ewar •
Jod Noah, (of Occidental Lodge,) TyllJ"r.

Flor~ncc, S. C.

Il):icber, W. IC
Clark, C. A.
Davidson, Louis
Dougla~~. J, P.
Dreher, Joo.
Elias, C. It.
P~rJuso:i, M. 8.

Gebh11rdt. J. C.
Grundy, C.
Hamilton, W. B.
Hodapp, E:lwurd
lford. S'lerm:in
I.lue11, Wm.

Blc?i.c, Fcrdina:id

Hodges, Jno.

MASTER MASONS:

Everett, l\I. V. Il. Hunter, Jno.
Abbott, W. A.
Fairley, Henry
llutchiuson, G. W.
Adrianson, l<'.
Iverson, Neil
Anderson, Andrew Field,!!!; X.
J1ickso11, 0£car
Flood, J. U.
Anderson, Jas.
Jollitt'e, W. 11.
French, Arthur
llnxter, C. G.
Gamage, Sninucl Keef, Jno.
Brower, A. ll.
Kimball, T. A.
Garcia, J. L.
Brown, W.'l'.
Kincaid, J. K
Gitlin, O. ~'.
Buck, Holantl
.
Kiog".tou, IL A.
Graves, 11. T.
Burbank. David
Knipe, T. J.
il.
Grnves,
W.
Canoll, Martin
Lems, Hiehord
Churchward, Jas. Ur:ffin, Wm.
MnrcLovich, Jno.
Hacker, Btlwnril
Clark, Chae.
llllly, John A.
Hall, A. 8.
Uooke, W. ll.
:Midtlletoa, F.
Hall, G. ll.
Corno, l'11ul
Miller, J. L.
Hamilton, n. A.
Cottrell, E. M.
lllcUombe, Jno.
Hanley, G:. W.
Craig, fete1·
l\lcGuignu, B.
HayH, Jas.
Crocker, J. A.
lie,alt1y, ,H. S.
McKil.Hiiu. Wm.
Curtis, C. C.
Ni1thting11le, ,J no.
Helmke, Gust.
lJavtro.1, Geo.
Hewitt, C.H.
O'llricu, W. S.
Dayl~y, Jas.
Hobe, A. A.
l'11rk, J. C.
Uonndan, ll. C.
l'lwlpe,
A. E.
llogcl:Joom, L. V.
Ebmao, UobHt
Homer, H. 11.
.Elliott, l:.lpory

Phelps, W. S.
l'rng. llfartill
Ucddi•b, T. J.
Hchorn, Cuor111l
It:chartlson, A. P.
ltobertson. C. O.
81fr~tmt, .S. F.
Scott., A. F.
Sm:th, U. W.
Snook, Ho bl rt
'J'yler, T. 1'.
'l'y;e, Dnvlu
Vnlt>utine, Joo.
VnnNcse, .Henry
VanPelt,, Jno.
Vol11 l'R, l Ienry
W11tt, 8. l!'.
WeliF.ter, J, R.
Wetherbee, C. II.
Whit~man, G. l•'.
Wilbur, J. I'.
WorL!Jky, T. n,10~

11 llLLDW cnArTS :

Boo, Chas.
Gallowny, Wm.
Alley, :Ephraim
llulger, Martin
Carlton, Richnrd
AndruSI', Theo.
Harford, E. C.

Godfrey, S. R.
Joh11eio11, J. 1''.

Lewis, S. F.

ll:lSTEllID Al'l' HEN'l"JC:ES:
Douglas~, G. G.
Colline, S. J.

Morton, F. K.

Digge, W. ll.

Moody, W. II.

Aylilf, S. ll.
Il:\d.,r, A.
Buch:mnn,
G~bhardt, A:ig.

w. r.

·r.J.

Wcstg11tc, J. D.-6.

Zublr, W. L. -16.

WlTllDl1.A\\':\:

Pab.che, G.

RoscnficlJ, A. - 2.
EX!'Er.t.ED.

Snyder, F. -

t

Gold Hill Lodge, No. 32.
Onltl_Illll, Pincer County,

Statecl Meetings, .flr.,t S11t11rda!J in cacli month.
OFFIOER!i1

D. V. Mason, Se::retary,
J, L. Carter, Sm. Dllllc<m,
I •. K. Honeycut, Jun. DJa:<m,
J. A. Bond, Marshal,

J. D. HendcrFon, lVor. MCU!ler,
B. L. Heath, Sm. ll'q1·den,
W. S. C. Woods, Jun. Warden,
J. Holcomb, 'l're::mrer,

M. Wnldr~n, Tyltr.
r1\11t l\Jcuter' 1

r. Hc:itlcreoo.

J.

W.W. Cnpcrtoo,
:Murra{i,
Neal, l.-9.

Staples, D. J.
Vnn Pelt, J.
Wnue, T. B.

Mni:tec,S. L.
Milhr, D;W.
llforebousc, E.
McKinnie, J. Il.

G:Jly, J.P.
H anson, J.
Highly, Wm.
Hooper, JI. 11.

Mnlhcsoa, R.-6.

WITnDnAW~:

Lclaml, G. H.

Woolsey, K. S.-4.

Rab;, Wm.

I::Nl't:RJm Al'P!H'!.IC):8:
Lnwre;:c~ C. Owen.

Geo. J. Hobc,

Raymo:id, G.
Rowan, lll.
Shuler, G. L.
Strauss, Abraham
Thr·:ipson. P.
William~. D. H.
Wint:i:miller, D.-37,

Jarvis, Smith
Kraft-, H.
Leake, C. A.
Manning, E. J.
lllcDowell, N. S.
Pa;:te, Lewis
Pa.rker, T. B.

FEI.LOW CHA !<'JS :

Pnat lUnatrra 1

Wm. S. Moses,

171

ORA:i'D LODOE OF CALil!'OR::SIA.

JotnX,\L Ol' rnoCE:EDI:\CS.

~!ASTE!t MASO~~:

Adume. W. V.
13rck, Wm.
Cordillon, Wm:
DJany, J,
Devany, W. It K.

IIendrick~, A.

Hill. J. A.
Holder, J.
Howell. "J!.
Mandt!, E.

Mimhnll, J.
Ilnlnny. T. T.
Ro~rte, W. E.
Rucker, J. W.
Hualng, E. t:!.

s:m~. J.

s.

Spann, J. W.
Starr, H. W.
Sylv1•ster, E.
Trammel, T. J ...:. 31.

FELLOW C&A F'l'S:

to'squit, Jno.

l)Iokelumne Lodge, No. 31.

Bl:l!n, Geo.

French, C. G. W.

.DJc;J,elumuo Hill, Onl:i.voras Oo:inty,

Stated Meetings, second 'J'ueaday in cacli mo11tl1.
OFFICKRS:

Jas. L. Wilkins, lVor. Master,
D. •u ' Mulford, ·Se11. Warden,
M. L. Cozine, J11n. Warden,
J pa. !lleyar, 2'r111111rll',

E. J. B:icon, Sccre!ary,
B. Grable, Sen. Dea.con,
J, M11guire. Ju.n. Deacon,
Jeiw G. Wiler, Z'v/,,..

Robinson, J. N.-2.

t:Nn;mm AJ>PRE;l!TJCI 8:

McClure, Samuel

Reese, J.M. D.-4•

\\'ITllDT:AW:S:

I:ootb, D. H.

Clurk,C.r.

Miller, L . C. - 3.

~l'TtlCI\l'N l'Jl()l\J noLL FOR :SON-PAYMENT 01' DUES:

Alkn, T. M. J;.-1.

172

[May,

JOURNAL OJ' PllOCl::tDJNGS.

6857.]

G!t.A~D

173

LODGE OF C.\LI!'O!t?UA.

E.'ITED 11;n A PPD'£NTICE8 :

Ophir Lodge, No. 33.
Jlurpby'• Camp, Calaveraa County,

Btaf,e(J. Meetings, /~urth T/1ursday in each 111011th.

ttoork, J . B.-S.

Herring, J. II.

Uardwic.ke, J. W.

WTTllDRAWN:

lllllcr, Jno.-S.

Clayton, J. A.

Brother, Henry

()111'FICER!l1

Wm. H. Barnes, Wor. Maat.er,
Louis Webber, Sen. Warden,
Riley Senter, Jun. Warden,
A.H. Putney, 1'reaaurer,
J.M. Montgomery, Secretary,
las. McGowan, Chaplain,

Samuel Criswell, Sen. D - ,
W. C. CriPpin, Jun. DtJOcoo,
W. R. Downing Marahal,
W. Harland, l "t
~G. G. Baker, I .,,eicaruo,
Geo. Kline, 'l'ykr.

San Diego Lodge, No. 35.
Sim Diego, San Diego County,

• · ·• n4t 1'IR8fl:l'lll

...J. W. Griswold,

A. H. Putney,

W. H. Barne@.

MASTER MArnss:

Anderson, A.G.
Angelopulo.11.
Beach, G. H.
Biggs, Dennis
Biggs, N.B.
Card, NPlson
Clary, W. H.
D.iviP, J. S. C.

Davis, 'I'hornM
Doland, peter
Emery, A. J,
Farrar, L.
Green, N. 'JoV.
Hein@dorff, J,
Hinkle, W; C.

Jeffrie@, R. A.
Jones, Wm.
Leonhard, Geo.
Light, A. B.
Meatz, Geo.
Myers, M. S.
McLean, H. R.

Newton, S. J.
Reany. McK.
So.faelo, N.
Sinclair, J.B.
Smith, Wm.
Stuart, W. W.
Taylor, Ira-42.

Harris,JoP..-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICE~:
Deer, Tho~.
Traver, P. L.-2.
WlTllDRA WN:
Johnrnn, Cha~.
Morri~, W. R.

:Booth, Jno.
J>ryant. Wm.
Christie. F.
Faxon, Frrd.
Hinkle, W.W.

J...aphnm, W. W.
Laveutho.l, H. H.
Morland, D. C.

Rogcn, Henry
Russell, W. A.
Shaftic, J. J.

Oll'FlCER!l 1
Tho~. R. Darnall. &-reta-ry,

0. B. K•irt:a. Wt>r. M.uter,
'E. D. P~ndleton, Sm. lVurden,
M. Schiller. Jun. Warclm,
J. Sm:th, 1hmurer,

D. B. Hoffman, Sen. Dtaecn,
L. Gilbert, Jun. Deacon,

W. Q...iFcrrell, Tyler.
Pad lUn•teru

W. C. Ferre:J.

J. W. Robinson,

Pllllip Crosthwaite,

~!ASTER

Am3s, J. J.
Bogert, A. L.
Bogert. J.C.
Couts C. J.
Fitzierald, F. II.

l"ELLOW CRAl1'S:

'f"ldler, N. L.

Sta'l~d Meetin9B, third Monday iii each month.

Goldman, S.
Ilnyes, J.
H_o ppcr, G. F.
Keatinit, J.P.
Kendrick, J. J.

\!ASONS:

•'ELLOW CRAFTS:

Smith, J.B.
Stevens, S. B.
Stiver. Jae.
Zively, J. A. -17.

Y~ager,J.L.F.-28.

Morse, E. W.-2.

.,

Lyons, G.

s~xton, 111. M.
Tibbetts, G. P.
Treweeke. W. A.

J,MSo.tor, J , R.
l'tlanClSSe, H.
R ·! iuer. Jos.
Rose, L.

Y.l\TElllW APPHENTICF.1:1:

Vnnalat, J. J.-S.

Swyco.tfor, J.

Kutz, M.

ETRICKEN FROM noLL FOil NOl'\·PAYMEl'iT OJI DUEl:l:

Harris, Joseph

Pulliam, W.W. - 2.

Butte Lodge, No. 36.
B:chvell'• Bar, Butte Connty.

Stated Meeting11, jirBt Saturday in taeh mor.th.

Santa Clara lodge, No. 34.
Santa. Claro, Santa Clal"ll County.

Stated ifeeti11g1, third Saturday in tach month.

B. J. }Jro.dlcy, Wor. Matter,

L. Gardner, &rt. Warden,
E. T. Starr, Jun. Warden,
W. B. Stockton, ~rtr,
D. W. Htrrlogton, Secretary,.,

OFFICKRS1

A. Jones Jacbon, Sm. Dta«111,
Jno. Dickson, Jun. Dtacon,
H. Lillick,
t
S. Wellheimer. f Steu:ard4;
P. J. Do.vis, Tyler.
l"ad lll'a•ter11

Jno. Cook,

.A.' Jones Jackson,

Il. J, Bradley,

l\1A8TER l\1A80NS:

.AnderEOn, A. P.
Bayley, A. M.
Boone, W. E.
Brock, E. E.
Caldwell, A. B;
Clayton. Chas.

Dale, Edward
• Morgnn, J. H .
Gallimore. Wesley McCabe, ]'. T.
Habick, Ferdi·nand ~ Riche, L. M.
Joseph, B.
Rucker, W. T.
Martin, J.P.
Senter, J. N.
Missing, H.
Sbephclll'd, F. l\l.

Stra!iBer, Angnstn1
StresRer, L.
Swinford, Geo.
Vincent, Geo.
. Williams, J ns.-34.

Oll'FlCERl!a

R. T. VRnNorden, Stcrda"J•
A. J, sgauldiuii;. Sm. Deacon,
G. \V, r11ke, Jun. Deacon,
Gordon Scrolss, 'l'yler.

Henry Keefer. lVor. Maater,
A. L. Cho.mberl11in, Sen. Warden,
W.W. Hobart, J un. Warclm,
G. W. 1Ie~s, Treaaurer,

.Pad lllnstera 1

E. S. Ruggles.

Geo. II. Crossctte, ·

Thoe. Wells,

~!ASTER MABONE:

Al~p11ugh, J, I!.
Arthur, D, G.
Bancroft, C. A .
Bidwell, Joo.
Bloch, Jos.
Callon, Thos.
Cl.lapin. Miles

}~nii;lnad, J. T.

Farnan, Joe.
Freer, Peter
Gilkyaon, J, W.
Glucko.uf, Jos.
GoodriCb, 0. O.

Griffith, A. E.
Harris, P. II.
Holl'stet.ter, J. G.
Lamp, Gardner
:Ma.thews. Wm.
Martin, D. G.

E:iTERED APPRENTICES:

Plelsticker, F. A.-2.

Mo.rsho.11, Wm.
WITllllltA'll"N :

Wilson, Jao.

Marx, Louis
Reynolds. Horace
So.berfeldt, C. A.
Smith, Levi
Steo.rneR, Minott
Walsh, .Michael-36.

Witt, N. D.-Z..

1'44

JOUnN.\.L 01' PilOC.EIDIXClS.

6837.)

YET.LOW CRAFT:

Yreka, Siskiyou Co11nt>··

l\IeMorris, Jno.-1.

Stated Jlt!ett'.n,'Js, firit S.iturday in eac."i month.

£:S'fE!lED Al'PRE:\TJCE~:

n:n, n. s.

OFFICERS:

Joe. Tyson, lYor. /ll.PJter,
Joe. Sm'th, Sen. JV.mien,
?.I. C. Wh:tP-.Jun. Warden,
C. Gross, Tre:i.surer,

Jo::mthv1 GrJcn. Secntary,
G. W. SleepJr, Sen. Dncon,
G. W.•Jack3on,. J,,fi, DJ.co;i,
J. L. Cummins, Tyler.
Pnsf. lU:nstc1·a 1

Wl'fllDllAll'N:

Bell, Wm.
lJluckLurn, J. II.
Cather~. Jamu1
Davis, T. l\1.

Gagnon, l\f.
Gudch1 ux. L.
Irwin, S. Q.
K.itcbcr.s, J. W.

Cohe~, S.

Colto.1. D. D:
Connelly. J.
Creegan, J.

Cutler, N. T.
Duff, John
Dyer, J.
Flanegan, E.
George, A.
Isaacs, D.

KPlley, J.
1\illibrew, Wm.
Lennox. J.
Livingston, F.
Millarcl, N. ll.

Ri'.d, II. M.

nunkln, M. A.
Stratton. R. B.
Te1·ry, Geo. T.
Tnrner, J. 0.
Wh'.b, l]:. K.-33.

Yuba Ledge, No. 39.
Stated Mccti71ca, ·f)·~t ffcd11csc?ay bt cacli mcntli.
P:c~c~, J. Il.

Morcheac1, J.

WITIIDllA IYN:

Drown. J. W.
Cummins, J. S.
Crist, J.
Davidson, D. M.
Doud,D.
Dowthil, D. W.

J\fason, B. F.
Nickel. W. C.
Pool. W. P.
U:ker, II. II.
Shores, Wm.
Silverstein, S.

Drake, J. A.
Ferris. H. G.
Fox, \v. J.
Hickman, J.
Judah, H. M.
Kitts, D. B.

Slade, W. D.
Smith, J. P:
'faylor, W. S. R.
Thornberry, C. W.
Toz!r, C. W.
Tyler, G. W.-24.

STRICKEN Fr:mt JlOT.T. ron :l<'ON PAnrn:-.·T CF T U1 f:

Fairchild, J. W.
R:imsay, G. T.

Cosby, J. D.
Dunn, J. W.

lllat ,.,,.111 .. , 'l'uba t.:ou111;y,

Lowry, D. II.-3.

Ingram, Joe.
Ilolfonback, D.S.

Sloba:ich, J. W.

Wl3S:l.1, G:IcJ-6.

Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38.
S1>ntn Crn:ir., f!'nnta Cruz Coant)··

OFFICERS a

Pn•t lllnatel'& a

A. l\Iaur:c~, Jr.
Arm,r, llhx
lJelknap, I•'. G.
BromiJ~rgcr, l\I. A.
Cnmpbdl, W. A.
Cnpp~, W. H.
Donovan, 'l'ho8.
Evans, 0. 111.
Bvcrts, F. D.

N. II. Stockton,

II. W. Peck,
~usn:n

Brummett. Jas.
Cannon, E. G.
Curtis, Joo.
Dame, J.B.

DobbinbisR, Joo.
Durham. K
EvanR, G. W.
Fleck, Jno.

Fnirfax, C. S.
Ford, Chae.
Garst, E.
Gear, Geo.
Goodwin, J. D.
Ha11:an, E. 11.

L'ctenstcin, S.
Logan, A. D.
l\larcurn, 111.
:Mcs!ck. R. S.
J\lcDutne, J. Y.
Orr, W. llf.

Keyser, P. W.

Pmrkee, !<'.
Potkr, I.... W.

Lcvly, Chae.

MArnxs:

Frederick, J. L.
Gregory, D.S.
Hutchen@, N.
Imas, II • .A.

Kitri<lgc, F. M.
Sinclair. Prewett
Tracy, P~ter
Tyus, J. B.-:.::s.

'l'uylo·r, J.
Tenchcn, II.
'J'uEkll., A.
Wagn~r, II.
Whitehill, J.
Wright, ll. F.-42.

Shultz, M.-~'.

E:sn:mm Al'PilEN'fICES'
Glnsrnn, Louis

Jeffrice, J. N.

Wl'fllDllA \\':S;

Da.rmuo, J. S.
Cohen, Solomon

I,.urrirnn, Samuel
1\laRoo, Caleb

'l'homae, A. S.

Thompson,.C. H.-6.

STRlCKE:S ~·.noll ROl.L FOlt ~Ol'·l'AnmNT m· DUJ::S:

Juckwn, El:as-1.
DIJ.D:

n. ·r. Ilucklcy.

Uai~b. Chae.

Fl:t,LOW CllAll'IS:

Duvls, J. J,,

A. W. naw:ion, C!iaplain,
Samuel Drennun, Smior De:z:;on,
J. ll. Arc11.n . .111,nior DJ:wm.
J. L. Prewitt, l St
d
S. S. Green, f ew:zr 8•
J.C. Riley, Tyler.

J. N. Hinman.

J. T. Dickey,
M.\Sl'ER MASOl'S:

Gnvcr, E. S.

OFFICERS a

Pn•t Mnit~rs 1

Tho~. II. Kernan, Se:retary,
S.1m11cl Cummins, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. C. Stokes, Jun. Deacon,
Fred. Schreiber, 'Py/er.

Jos. De Ddl, lVor. 1'!1wter,
A. S.ivry. Sen. Warden,
Thoe. S"wartl. Jun. Warden,
L2w:s Lr.wiB, Preusurer,

Stated Meetin[Js, Saturda!f nf or next pr~ceding Full Jl[oon.
Il. T. Ilncklcy, lVor. Mtlfler,
J. 'l'. J. llenndt, Sen. 1Vi1rdm,
0. K. 8tampley, Jun. Warden,
C. Winterhelrler, 1'reaaurer,
N. ll. !:ltockto:i, Se::re!ar!I,

S1•1•, J,. /!...

Willi:uns, E. J.,-14,

Sh11mw~y •. G. "··

ENTERED A Pl'llEl'TICES:

Emcrso:i, W. II.

Sanbnrn, I,.

DUD:

FELLOW CRAl'TS:

Horsley, F. C.

J\lannFco, C.
:Munarco, llf. L.
1'11rrn11s, 11. l!'.

llilcl:ccck, Iem:c-1.

MASTER MASONE:

Arn.olc1, F. M.
Ilatterton, W. D.
llibend. C.

Patterson, J. R.-3.

Moore, Thos. W.

J oscpb TyEon.

Jonathan Green,

175

illt.\~D LODGE OF C.\LIFOil?i°iA.

St. John's Lodge, No. 37.

Amy, J:i.o. W.-1.

176

6857.]

ioua:ii'AL OF l'ROCEEDINOS.

Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.

177

GRAND LODGE OF OALlFORNIA.
WITllDRA WN:

Mitchell, J. E.

Sacramento, Saer1unento County.

:Mc:Mahan, Thos.-2.

STRIOKES FROM ROLL ~'OR NO!<-PAYMENT OF DUES;

Slated Meetinga, jirlt Friday in each month.

Day, J. S.

Russell, Samuel.-2.
DIED:

OFl<'ICRRS I

Jones, William.-1.

Wm. F. Knox, War. JJf,uter.
C. D. Ho•sack, Secretary,
Wm. W. Li~ht, Sen. Warden,
W. H. Hill, Chaplain.
D. Farquharson, Jun. Warden,
J. S. Kaneen, Sen. lJtJU»n,
A. Mayer, 2'nalvro-,;
A. Aitken. Jun. DeaJJOn,
O. D. Chafee, (of Tehama Lodge,) Tyler.

EXPELLED:

Hook, Wllli11m.-l.

Pruit Jllruitera 1

J. II. Ga~s.

J.M. Koon, ·

J. L. English.

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42.

MAST.ER llASO:SS:

Anthony, Jas.
Asher, A. B.
Dories, H.
Borneman, W. G.
Brown, J. Q.
Cornwall, P. B.
Crencb, B. F.

DPxter, S. F.
Edwards, P. L.
Ewing, J.P.
Gardiner, T.
Greenbaum. IT.
Henry, W. P.
Heyman, A.

Jacobs. H.
King. D.
Kin~, J.
Kohlman, J.
Korminsky, H .
Miller, J. H.
Millgnte, T.

Montgomery,J. P.
Pearis, R. A.
Pearson, H. ll.
bherman, E. A.
Shuck. J. L.
Wilcoxon, J.-37.

WITllDRAW:S :

Gridley, n. C.

Lester, W. M.-5.

Martinez Lodge, No. 4L

-----,Jun. Warden,
ll. S. Eaton,

Louis Grnngcr,

..~tlted Meetings, first Mo1ulay in each monl.h.

Goodn:mu, M. L.
Hale, E. C.
Hamilton, Henry
Hartman, Isaac
Hodges, A . .t'.
Keller, 111.
Laventbal, Elins

Bishop, S. A.
Brent, J. L .
C11rsou, Geo.
Clark, A. II.
De1m, .Peter
Fenner, S.
Foster, Timothy
Gass, 0. D.
Gilchrist, Ira
Goldberg, H.

Morris, JBS.
McFarland, J. P.

Meyer, Samuol

Shelley, Alfred

~larks, B.

McLaughlin, H.
Newmark, Harris
Norton, Moses
P erry, W. H.
Portugal, Adolph
Raines, John
He.shard, J.
Hieb, Jaco!J
Sansevaln, J,ouis

Joo. F. S. Smith, Stt:raary,
Q. Ya11;er. Chaplain,
Wm. K. Leavitt, &n.. D,w.con,
Christian Hoffman, Jun. Deac(YTI,
It. A. Mndison, fyler.

Sporr, J. W.

•:~TERED

Scott, J. R.
Shachno, ChM.
Smith, W. A.
Stanley, J. Q. A.
Stewart, J .
Vlnsenhal~r, L. D.
Waite, J. S.
Wi!l!Ou, D. n.
Winston, .T. B.-48.
Wellergren, - i.

APl'RENTICES:

Page, Thos. P.

Brnnuige, 111.

OFFICERS.

Read, J as.-3.

'rlTHDBAWN:

Downey, J. G.

Kalisher, Wolf

Levy, J . lll.-3.

SUSPENDED:

).facey, Obed-I.

num :
Barton, J. R.-1.

t•aat !llaatera.

R. N. Wood, P.J.G. IV.

'l'ho!I. Foster.

MAsn; R MASONS:

FELLOW CliA11'£S :

!llarUoez, Contra Coatn C:onnty.

Thoe. A. Brown, Wor. Ma3ter,
Leopold Lassar, Sen. Warden,
W. H. Buckley, Jun. Warden,
lliram Fogg, Treamrer,

H. S. Allanson, &crdary,
S. Prager, Sen. Deacon,
Will. Potter, J.un. Deaco11,
Perry Switzer, Tyler.
Pad Jllasl era 1

Riley, ·w. T.-2.

Farquharson, D.
Cole, G.M.
Farquharson, C. D.

OFFICF.RS1

Ju.cob EliM, Wor. MaAter.
II. N. Alexander, Sen. Warden,
J. L. Morris. Trtaaurcr,

E:STERED APPRENTIOES·::

Spencer, D. C.

Los Angeleo, Loa Angeleo County,

Stated Meetinga, first Monday in each mont!t.

Thos. A. Drow:i.

MAST};R MASONS:

Barkley, A. E.
Berreye81L, J. S.
Borden, R. E.
Bowen, N. S.
Brown, Warren
Clark,G. R.
Classan, H.

Flippin, P. T.
Foster, F. D.
Hooper. W. A.
Kemiriek. J. W.
Lane, J . iv.
Lassar. E.
Mills, Hiram

Morgan, J, N.
O'Brien, J.C.
Pattirnn, Geo. J.
Prince, T. D.
Small, Daniel
Strode, S. E.
Such, I~. L.

Tennent, Jno.
Tucker, Jno.
Thompson, J. H.
Thm·n, Cipriano
Weld, E. F.
Willinlllll, J. F.-S5.

1!ELL'JW Cll.!.FTI:! :

Worth, Geo. F.-2.

Gibson, Jos.

i:NTEllED AfP&ENTICES:

Ce.ldwell, 1. :MoU.

Pen.ni.mlln, A. a-2.

Hiram Lodge, No. 43.
El Dorado, El Dorrulo County,

Stated Meetinga, Monday of or ne:i:t preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

Chall. :Meredith, Wor. Jfrutu,
)Iyer Cohn; Sen. Deac(YTI,
Uarwin Chase, Sen. Warden,
Emanuel Berg, Jun. Deacon,
Thos. A. Gault, J un. Warden,
ll. W. Mount Jfarthal
(.)has. P. Jackson, Tre<Uurer,
W. K. Liverage, l " '
Geo. G. Blanchard, Secret.ary,
,
H. M. Fiske.
f olewarda,
Jeremiah NicholH, Tyler,

23

178

[May,

J"OURNAL OF PROCEE1>1NOB.
Pnst MMters 1

0. B. Westcott.

R. Hull,
MASTER MASONS:

.Anabal, J. W.
Bean, Wm.
Anderson, R. C.
Boyd, Chas.
Anderson, 8tephen Cohn, A.
Barlow, G. W.
Dexter, L.
Bates, B. F.
Huber, Jno.
Bean, Jno.
Leutnesky, V.

Losky, M·
Mason, F. S.
Maxcy, J. B.
Miller, J. H.
McCormick, Jus.
Mcintyre, R. G.

Pnvey, W. H.
Price, Wm.
Reibsam, W. E.
'Yetherwax, J.M. B.
Wyatt, W. G.-36

WITIIDRA WN :

McGee, P.

Bamford, Wm.
Foster, Theron

Simmons, J.E.

Summers, Wm.-li.

5857.]

179

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNJA..

Sunder, Geo.
Swain, J.H.
Tewksbury, J. M.
Thurber, E. R.

Tobias, A. S.
Torrence, J no.
Umber, Cha.A.
Vollum, G. W.

IJills, H. C.
Benns, C. C.

Doane, Chas.
Jones, L. D.

Burrow, Samuel,
Blake, G. W.
llrady, J. n.
Chipman, C.

Cole, N. W.
Dehon, T. i\1. J.
Gilbert, J. A.
Leland, G. W.

Abra.mM, J. l\I.
Clark, E. Z.
Cohen, l\I.
Collins, Nap.
Devoe, J.B.
Dorsey, S. P.

Dougliss, D. IT.
Gates, Geo.
George, Jas.
La.udinor, Julius
M~yer, Simon
Mizner, L. Il.

Wadhams, Wm.
Walton, Jno.
Wells, G. W.

Wiggins, C. L.
Willett, E. W.
Wright, A. S.-131.

FELLOW CllAFTS:

Judah, C. D.

Spe.rrow, Thos.-6.

EN'l'Eltt;D APP!tENT!CES:

Moulton, Josiah
Ra.dston, Jacob
Shepherd, J.
Sullivan, J. W.

Upton, E. A.
White, Martin
Woods. G. W.-15.

Wl'fllDRAWN:

Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44.
San Francllco, San Franchco County.

Stated Meeting1, second Wednesday in each month.

STIUOKEN FROM ROLi, !<'OU .NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Coffee, G. W.
Graham, J. A.

Thos. J. Bass, Sen. JJeacon,
J. l\I. Martin, Jun. Deacon.
Chus. E. Rund, !rfar•hal.
Caleb Cameron, l Stew d.
•
S. M. Keifer,
f
ar ·
J. Noah, (of Occidental Lodge,) Pyler.
JoH. Shannon,
TI1•uben Clttrk.

E. A. Theiler,
H. G. Blaisdell,
C. T. Wilson.

Kendig, M. H . N.-5.

Steen, E. T.

Davidson, G. R.

Crescent Lodge, No. 45.
Creaeent City, Del Norte <lounty.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

MASTEU MASONS.

Abrahamson. P.
Abrams. J. C.
Ackley,.Lyman
Alexander, J. D.
Atwill, J. F.
Babcock, B. E.
Badger, W. G.
Batchelder, L. L.
Bee, A.W.
Bennett, R. H.
Bergson, Ole
Berkie, L. H.
Birch. Wm.
Blum, Chas.
Bourn, J.B.
Brigham, A.
Brittain, J. W.
Brooks, J. K.
Brooks, R. C.
Brown, J.E.
Burkhead, W. N.
Burrows, 0. B.
Bush, David
Campbell, A. C.
Canfield, J.C.

Lipman, Jsn11c

Cf\nu<!y, Patrick,

Paat Jllaatera 1

P. W. Shepheard,
C. R. Saunders,
B. D. Hyam, P. G. M.

Phillips, Fitch
Ramsay, W. B.
Ha.mbler, l!'ra.ncis
Smith, W. G.
Tyler, O. D.-22.

l>U:D :

OFFICER!l1

P. W. Shepheard, Wor. Ma3ter,
Henry L. Davis, Sen. Warden,
J.E. Terrell, Jun. Warden,
W. Melvin Smith, Treasurer,
Chas. T. Wilson, Secretary,
S. W. Holll\day, Chaplain,

Moses, Alfred
Moses, D. F.
Olmstead, J.P.
Parker, G. F.
Phelps, E. R.

Carrick, J. W.
Gordon, Jas.
Charrington, W. H. Hall, Milton, Jr.
Clark, A. IL
. Hawley, C. A.
Cogliandolo, F.
Hedges, G. M.
Cohen, S. H.
Hickox, G. C.
Coker, Edw.
Higgins, G. K
Corser, C.H.
Hollings, G. E.
Cowen, Philip
Hopkins, M.
Cox, J. W.
Howard, Benj.
Dahlman, Chas.
Humphreys, L.
Dar~an, Jonns
Hutchings, P.
Davies, J. S.
Kaplan, Lewis
Davia, J. P.
Kenny, G. L.
Dean, E. S.
Kewen, E. J. C.
Des~au, J. H.
King, Minor
Devinney, Jos.
King, Richard
Eayrs, H.P.
Krahe, W. A.
Flint, Wilson
Kuchel, C.
Fobes, G. P.
Lawrie, J . A.
:Folk, Sol.
Lee, H.
Franz, Bernard
Lent, Silas
Gardner, S. C.
Love, J. S.
Garrison, W.R.
Ludington, G. C.
Gilman, M. M.
Lumbcck, S.
Godfrey, Wm.
Martin, G. T.

u,.

Martin, Wilmot
l\1arx, Samuel
Muy, Joseph
l\krrill, I. 1\1.
Meyerfeld, Moses
Michel, Anron
Morgunstein, M.
l\IacCrelliEh, F.
McKenzie, J. T.
Nagle, G.D.
Nelson, G. II.
Newcomb, C. S.
Owens, P . A.
O'Dryon, Jer.
l'rochold, Chas.
Rnimoncl, R. E.
Randolph, W. C.
lleichart, J . A.
Robinson, T. P.
Ruggles, J.E.
Sawyer, E. D.
Scoville, H. W.
Sherk, Louis
Silverthorn, W. H.
Smith, Leonida.a

E. Ma.son, Wor. Master,
J . G. Wall, Sen. Warden,
S. Ha.1111, Jun. Warden,
C. L. Knutle, Treasurer,

D. C. Lewis, Secretary,
B. Goldsmith, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Meyers, Jun. Deacon,
N. Tnck, Pyler.

.

Past Jlla.teru

Edward Y. Naylor,

E. l\fo~on.

MABTJ!llt MASONS:

Bell, P. W.
Dutler, A. J.
Church, S. '.I.'.
Fletcher, E. P.
Gilkey, L. n.

Gilmore, T. D.
Hart, H. M.
Holton, D. S.
.Jackson, T. A.
Lawton, G. 'r.

Friedman, II.
Hoover, D.

Morford, n. Il.
Murphy P.

Illoch, A. J.
F ullerton, W. G.
Hale, J as. R.

Morey, N. E.
Old~, R. P.

Lord, J . A.
Mann, J. F.
McComb, D. W.
Nordheimer, B.

Peveler, P. H.
Pierce, S. Z.
Smith, W. D. L. F.
Sta.telers, J. W.-27.

EN'l 'l•arnn APl'lll!:NTIOEB:

McDonald, W.

Watkins, L. D.-6.

Wl'l'HDRA WN <

Regan, Wm.
Strawbridge, J.
SUSl'ENBED:

Ha.le, Jno. Rix-1.
lJ!ED:

Grubler, S. H.-1.

St. John, H. W.
Westcott, E. G.-9.

180

[.May,

JOURNAL 01'' PROCEEDINGS.

11857.]

.E NTEll.Ell Al'PRE NTIOE:

Texas Lodge, N. 46.

Bates, E.-1.

!!an Juan, Monterey County.

WITHDRAWN•

Stat.ed .lfeeti11gs, second &turday in eacli month.
OFFICERS t

W. B. L. Clark, Wor. Ma8ter,
J.C. Gasten, Sen. Warde11,
L. Strode, Jun. Warden,
J. T. Clark, 1't-ta81.trer,

Kloppenberg, D. W. Taylor, Samuel
McCollum, J. S.
Todd, L. M.

IJuckley, B. T.
Johnson, D.

J. P. Laue, Secretary,
J. S. Black, Sen. Deiicon,
0. P. McFadden, Junior Deacon,
.J. A. Webb, Tyler.
Palllt 1\laeter& 1

W. ll. L. Clark.

Benue.tt; W. C.
Butterfield, J.
Campbell, J . L.
Chism, J. E;.

Chi8m,J. V.
Fulgham, G. F.
Hill, J.
Hubbard, W. G.
Hunt, J.
Johnson, J. S.

Ably, A.
HAill, W.

Bennett, G. G.
Bolad, J.

B~l'ton, J.

Webster. G. G.
Wixon. iv. W.-8.

Lebanon Lodge, No. 49.
Sau l4"'ranrh1co, San Frtlttf'llco County.

.r. T. Cox.

Stated Meetings, fourth 1'hursday in eacli month.

~asrm• lIASONS:

Ashley, D. R.

181

GRAND LODGE OF CALU'ORNIA.

•Toicc, W.W.
Jordan. F.
Lindsey, J. J.
Matthews, R. L.
Mylor, I.
Nqrris, J. A.

OFFICERS•

Page, Jno .
Stone, M.
Story, E. l!'.
Turner, J. H.
Williams, E. L .-U.

T.ouis Cohn, Wor. ],faster,
•
Henry Adler, Sen. J)8flcon,
Fred. A. Benjamin, &n. Ww·den,
H. Weil, Juni Deacon,
Henry J . Labatt, Jun. Wa1·dm.
l!. Pccare, Marshal,
Morris Elgutter, 'l'reasurer,
Samuel Mayer, } Stewarda
llernhard Simon, Se.cretanJ,
D. Abrams,
'
Joel Noah, (of Occidental Lodge,) 'l'IJler.

ENTEllED APPJtENTIC~;s:

Bryant, Il.
Day, T. W.

Head, S. C.-7.

J·no. 1''. Damon,

\l'ITHD!tA WN :

Glecksmau, J.-1.
ST!llOKEN }'RQ)l ROLL l!Olt NON-1.'AYMt.:NT Ol' DUK8 .

Bricknell, II. F.·-1.

.Michigan City Lodge, No. 47.
Michigan City, Placer County.

StaU!d Meetings, Th!lrsday of or next preceding Full .ilfoo11.

Harrett, S.
Bloomingdale, R
Brandt, B. L.
Breslauer. H.
Caro, W.
Carter, R. W.
Cohen, F .•J.
Cobn, L. llf.
Cohn, Solomon
Coleman, E.
Cook, Chas.
Craner, S.
Duxbury, P. C.
Visher, B.
:Frankenthal, lll.

Fulda,R.
Garwood, J . S
<~odchaux, L.
Goldsmith, L.
Greenberg, L.
Guttee, Iso<lorc
Henr~ucz, - llotchm, Tom.
Hunter, W. T.
•Jacoby, W.
Just, H.
Levy, S.
Lewis, Fred.
Lewis, H. M.
Livingston, M.

OFFICERS:

Chas. A. Low, Wor. .illaster,
E. ll. Bartlett, Sen. Warden,
Uyrus Watkins, Jun. Warden,
Robert Berland, Treamrer,
C. C. Reid, SfJCT'emry,

Jacob Mayer.
MAS'rEn MASONS:

E. II. Loyd, Sen. Dtaeon,
J. W. Bird. Jun. Deacon,\
D. L. Whiting, MarahaJ,,
A. A. Mason,
t St d
David Taggart, f ewar !,
Benjamin White, 'l'yler.
Past lllnater t

B. Bonnett,

Lowenstein, J.
Steinhart, Wm.
Manna, S.
Stcppacber, l\f.
Sutro, G.
Mar9all, J.
Mentel, Wm.
'fichnor, L.
Mcyers;M.
Trapet, R.
Oppenheim, M.
Triest, D,
Pearce, Il. H.
Uhlfelder, S.
Rosenfield, A.
Vun Vlcek, A.
liosenstock, S. W. Walley, J>.
Rosing, E. L .
Weillcr, L.
Willis, Edward
Schelcr, G.
Wolf, A.
Sichel, M.
Wolf, B.
Smiley. G. W.
Zeile, Jno.-70.
Solomons, S.

VELLOW ORA!'1' :

Torres, E.-1.
1-:N'l'Eln:D API•lrnNTICll :

Wallis, J. S.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Benjamin, J.
Dittelbach, J.
Griesman, J .

H echt, A.
Jacobs, M. J.
JRCobson, S.

Label, A.
Ottenheimer, A.

Simon, S. L.
Steinhart, S.~ 10.

)JASTER MASONS:

Adams, J.Q.
Haker, J. H.
Bell, J . N.
Berry, Jos.
Blake, C. T.
Butler, P. D.
Cooley, J. B.
Darling, E.T.
l)rnrey, J. W.

Eddington, A. M.
Falkner, Zach.
Halligan, D. JI!.
Hancock, J. H.
J oues, E. R.
Levin, Jacob
Lytle, Thompson
McCormick, J. D.
McCullock, G. K.

Noble, l!'. E.
Passmore, W. H.
Peck, C. M.
Poole, II. W.
Reinstein, S.
Shaw, Philo
Shawl, Mark
Shepherd, R. D.

FELLOW ORAF'r:
~IcCollum, N.-1.

Smith, W. G.
Steivart, J. R.
Stoner, Philip
Swan, C. J.
Thomas, W. M.
Tyler, Edwin
Weis, Jacob
Whyle, M. M.-46.

Forbestown Lodge, No. 60.
Forbeatown, Butte County.
Sta~d Meetiugs, Satu1·day of or next pl'eceding Ji'ull Moon.

OFFICERS 1

ll. W. Brown, Wor. Maater,
N. D. Plum, Sen. Warden,
David McKee, Jun. Warden,
Samuel T. Dowers, TreMUrer.,

- - --,Secretary,
R. C. Gaskill, Sen. JJeo.con,
Louis Blumfield, Jun. D faoon..
C. O. Foote, 'Jl11lt;1"

182

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

6851.j

A. G. Simpson,

Past l'II88ter •

H. W. Brown.

A. C. Kean.

MASTElt MASONS:

Abney, Jas.
Jordan, W. II.
Callaghan, Samuel Kring, J. N. B.
Dorland, T. J.
Lillard, J. H.
Grunsell, Andrew McMillan, Jas.
Harris, J.
Pautin, W. L.
Hillman, Geo.
Rountree, J.

Saucet, Henry
Sharp, J. H.
Sparks, E. B.
Sutherland, Jno.
Thrasher, J. T.

Watson, J, A.
Whealdon, J.
Wilson, H. W.
Wilson, M. W.
Winkled, Aug.-SG,

l'ELLOW CRA~'T:

Guthrie, J. P.

MASTEH MASONS:

llcrnadotte, E. J.
lloyce, W. P.
Clark, N. W.
()offee, W. R.
))avis, W.
l<~bright, J. H.
Ollharn, S. M.

Hamlin, G. A.
Hoffman, H.
Inskip, W. S.
Jackson, S. P.
King, Geo.
Lowenthal, L.
Marsh, P. P.

Smith, J. L. P.
Stewart, A.
Taylor, C. O.
Van Hagan, J.B.
Washburn, W. D.
Young, P. R..'.-40.

Scott, W. C.-1.

Pangborn, J. P.-2.
WI'l'llDRAWN:

};l\TERED APPRENTICES:

Fitzgerald, Jos.
Thomas, J. H.
Walker, Albert-'r,
Hanneway, W. W. Thompson, Alfred

Blake, L. L.
Feller, Elias

Melborne, H. C.
Montgomery, Jno.
Moose, J. L.
McAllis, Jno.
Nathans, B.
Owens, Jas.
Schardin, H.

FELLOW·CRAFT:

ENTERJm APPRENTICES:

Foley, W.

183

GRAND LODGE OF CAtiFORNtA.

Past l'lla•ters 1

Walling, L.-3.

Murphy, J no.

Lund, L. W.

WITHDRAWN:

Ashburn, H. A.
Ault, W. C.
lleedle, J no,
Bell, V. G.

Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51.

Black, J, M.
Boyers, J,
Buchanan, W. II.
Findley, Thos.

Sheldon, H. A.
Smith, G. T.
Taylor, Wm.-14.

Gambrel,R. 'f.
McCracken, J.
Newton, W. L.

STRICKEN FROM nor,L FOlt NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Smock, H.-2.

Cooper, J. E.

Illlnolstown, Placer County.

Stated Meetings, .fi;at Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS:

Jehoiakim Jones, Wor. Ma8ter,.
Wm. M. Stuart, Sen. Warden,
J. D. Hilton, Jun. Warden,
K J, Brickell, 'Jlreamrer,

Geo. W. Applegate, Set!rdary,
A. L. Hodge, Sen. Deacon,
L. D. Brown, Jun. Deacon,
Jno. Y. Wynn, Tyler.

St. James Lodge, No. 54.
Jame.town, Tuolumne County.

Past l'lla~ters 1

Jehoiakim Jones,

Geo. W. Applegate.
MASU;R MASONS:

Baldwin, J, W.
Banks, E. L.
Bigham, Joshua
Bradley, E. L.
Brickell, B.
Burge, Jas. T.

Stated· ll{eetings, second Saturday in each month.

Campbell, W. B.
Carter, Jackson
Cate, J. K.
Cheesbro, A.
Cook, J. W.

Fish, Franklin
l;lammond, L. G.
Himes, W. A.
Moore, B. F.
McNalley, Juo.

Quin, A. V.
Quirk, Wm.
Rice, Chas.
Sherman, A. L.
Smith, R. A.-'-29.

OFFICFJRS1

Past Ma11ter•1

Milliken, J.

Thornton, M. 0.

Williams, H.--4.

Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52.
Rough and Ready, Nevada County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
Ol~FICI<'JRS 1

J, K. Smith, lVor. Master,
J. E. Congleton, Sen. Warden,
E.W. Roberts, Jun. Warden,
C. Beckman, 'Jlreamrer,
Wm. Coombe, Secretary,
D. E. Harper, Chaplain,

Ja~.

John J. Willis,

WITHDRAWN:

Armstrong, Jos.

Edward Parks, Secretary,
Jas. W. Claiborne, Sen. J)ll,ICOn 1
Peter Grogan, Jun. Deacon.,
G. B. Nyman, 'JliJler.

Wm. D. Newton, Wor. Master,
Bverard Sharrock, Sen. Warde11,
Isaac N. Quin, Jun. Warden,
BP.nj. Randall, Treatmrer,

Geo. W. Weaver, Sen. Deacon,
A. C. Congleton, Jun. Deacon,
Jos. Heritage, Mar&hal,
E. Robbins, l
S. p. French, f Stewards,
M. Merrill. Tyler.

W. Claiborne.

MASl'.lm MASONS :

Baxter, L. T.
Beretti, Wm.
Bettis, O. J.
Brunton, T. C.
Donnel~, Thos.
Dunphy, Wm.
Emanuel, Henry

Fleming, J. W.
Hildreth, Thos.
Howard, J. A.
,Joseph, ·a.
Keith, A. J.
Lea, J, C.
Leland, G. A.

Maltbie, J, B.
Myers, Jno.
Nye, A. R.
Pareim, John
Pope, W. A.
Servio, Francis

Scott, C. L.
Spencer, J. C.
Stonecipher, P.
Turk, J. H.
Willis, T. N.
Wing, Stephen-35.

FI·:l,LOW CRA}'1'8:

Pope, E. II.

:Myers, M.

t;Nn:mm

Ackerman, J.
Lake, G. P.

Paine, W.
Parsons, J as.

Hopkins, .J. L.
Lander, N.

Peacock, Ja..•.
Sharrock, G. W.

Simmons. F. H.-3.

Al'PREN~'JC}:8'

Tribou, G. F.

Rogers, E. A.-6.

wrrHDRAWN:

Stimpson, Chas.
White, Cyrus

Woodworth, .B.-7.

STRIC'K}1N }'ROM ROLL }'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Danziger, H.

Gibbons, T. G.

Ledbetter, J. W.

Wolf, Casper-4.

184

iouiiN.At of Nt0ci.E:EbINas.

6!!61.j

185

GRAND LOD<.lE OF CALIFORNIA.

Suisun Lodge, No. 55.

Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57.

Subun, Solano Count,y.

Santa Rooa, Sonoma Coupty.

StaWl Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next pteceding llrill Moon.

OFFICERS a·

Chas. Maul, Wor. Ma#ler,
A. P. Jackson, Sen. Warden,
S. S. Smith, Jun. Watden,
J. B. Lemon, 1rtaAurer,

OFl<'ICERS I

Jno. M. Jones, Secraary,
G. W. Hayes, Sen. Deawn,
D. D. R eeves, Jun. Deaccm,
R. H ayes, Tyler.
Past Master t

P1tst ~laatel's 1

Nathan Cutler.

A. Richardson,

E.'D. Harris,

MASTER MASONS :

Brown, W. B.
Brown, W. C.
Carberry, Aaron
Carberry, J. J .
Clayton, P. 0 .

Cutler, Jacob
Gardner, G. G.
Gessner, Wm.
Hull, G. W.
Jackson, F. L.

Keeny, J.M.
Long, Jno.
Longmire, Jos.
Mauka, C.
Owen, J. W.

Palmer, Philip
Rice, H.13.
Robinson, Jno.
Rush, Hiram
Russell, Henry-ti!.

FELLOW CRA.l'T8 :

Aldridge, Frank

Thoma~, Heaj.-3.

Cord, G. W.
~; N'rERED APPREN'flC.F.S :

WilliamR, J.-2.

H111l1 C. W.

Fennick Fisher, Secretary,
J. S. Ormsby, Sen. Deacun,
H. P. Larrabee, Jun. Dearon,
W. H. Moore, Tyler.

Jno. G. Huff, Wor. Master,
Wm. M. Holmes, Sen. Warden,
J, }'.Patrick, Jun. Warden,
A. C. Bledsoe, 1rearnrer,

.Jos. H. Grlgg11.,

E. Fisher,

· l\IASTER l\IASONS:

Harnes, E. H .
llcldcn, J. W. C.
lllair, Thos. N.
llrown, Jno.
Oe.lboun, J . W.
Oauipbell, J. A.
(.Jarrillo, Julio
OarRon, Lind say
C11~h ••Job

Fulkerson, R.
Hartman, J. W.
Hendley, Jno.
Hereford, W.A.
Holmes, Calvin
Howe, H.
Ingram, Juo.
.JoneA, J. 1'.

~'KLJ,QW

WITHDRAWN:

CRAFTS:

Henderson, M.-2.

Dooley, E. M.

Maupin, Sidney-1.

Y.:\'TBR~;o

APPIU:NTICES:

Lambert. H. P.

Tife, A.

CJook, J. G.

McPeak . .M.
Noell, '\V. 11.
Nuckolls, N.
Reynolds, J. A.
Sanders, G. P.
Smith, I. P.
Thompson, J. D.
West. Samuel-45.

Kennedy, J . I'.
Laughland, J.M.
Lockley, E. B.
J\Iatthews, C. W.
Morehouse, J. C.
:\[yzc, M.
McDonald, D.
McMan~s, .J. G.

Lovegrove, C. D. P.-4.

Wll'HDHA WN:

Ellis.•T..T.

Clark, J.P.

Volcano Lodge, No. 56.

Prewitt, Ja.s.-!l.

Volcano, Amador County.

Stated MeetingB, Saturday of or next preceding F11ll Moo11,
OFFICERS•

W. Ayer, Wor. M<Uter,
J. W. Baldwin, Sen. Warden,
A. L. Land, Jun. Warden,
A. 'l'heurkauf, Treamrer,

E. Drey , Secretary,
Robert, Stewart, Sen. Deacon,
Stephen H. Hunt, Jun. Ikacon,
F. Heichling, Tyler.
P1tst l'II:uters t

P. Orton,

G. R. Walker.

Union Lodge, No. 58.
l!lncrnment.o , Sncrnmcnto County. ,

Stated Meeting.,, second Thul'sday in each month.
OFFICERS:

MASTti1' MASONS:

Aram, John,
Armstrong, D.
Hell, S. A.
Briggs, S. G.
Champion, T. S.
Clark, Isaac
Clements, David
Douglass, M. A.
Foster, T. A.
Griij1rnld, T. N.

Henry, E. F .
Hubbard , C. '!'.
Hudson, W.
IFaaca, R.
Johnson, A.
Johnson, T.
Kelly, L. C. lll.
Latham, 0 .
Logan, P. F.
Millignn, T.

Munckton, Geo.
~IcKee, Amos
P ni::e, J. D.
Pn.yne, W. B.
Pendleton, J.C.
Reed, W. D.
Roes, A .
Shacklett, G, W.
Stewart, 'l'b oma~

Sw11nger, S.
Tebb8, Moses
Tullock, J ns.
Turner, S. T.
V11nce1 R .
Welch, J. N.
Wert.z, G.
White,Jno.
Williaml'I, J. P .--4&.

FELLOW..CltAl'T:

Foster, Juo.- 1.
l :NTERED APPJlHNTlCES :

Burdon, B.
christia.n, R.

Cool, P . Y.
Goff:. E.

Goldoworthy, .las. Low, A.H.
Ilarden, ~· L.
Spingger, T. A.-8.

Bailey, Melvin
Bamborger, J. M.

Cornelins, W.
Frame, H. 'l'.

Past lllaUerM 1

J. II. Ralstou.

Otten, D.
Pease, L.- 8.

G. Ilaines.
MA~TEn

Alexander, Jas.
llerwin, Lewi~
Bucki, Lewis
Cl11pp, C. C.
Fitzpatrick, .T.

Flohr, Andrew
Fredericks, Jo!'!.
Galland, A.
Horan, Thos.
•Tackijon, J. W.

Jel!Be Morrill.

MASONS :

Koppikus, A.
Lehman, L.
Lewis, Lewis
Loryea, Jos.
Lyons, Julius

Mr.Mabon, P.
Steinfurth, Henry
Thompson, W. A.
Weinrich, Henry
Wormser, 1.-30.

FELLOW CRA.l"l' :

Conklin, :M. J.-1.

WJTHl>RAWl\:

Grey, W. E.
Lingrel, 'l'. H.

T. Steudeman, SecrtUry,
Moritz Kalmuch, Sen. Deacon.,
Moses Goldstein, Jun. neacon,
-- - - -, 'l'yler.

Levi Keller, Wor. M~ter,
ltichard Dale, Sen. Warden ,
Harris Davis, Jun. Warden,
~larkus Kohn, 1reiuurer,

J-:~T KRED

()almack, .i\I.

APPR~]NTIO.l!:S:

Lohensteln, LcwiR

24

Meserve, Theo.

186

[May,

.JOURNAL 0.1!' PROCEEDJNQS.
WITHDRAWN:

Einstein, Moritz
Hutchinson, F.
Jacobs, Wolff

Kohn, Morris
Mandlebaum, F.

Oppenheim, L.
Oppenheim, S.

Thiele, H. G.
Watters, A.-9.

SUSPENDED:

Harris, Jos.

5857.]

187

ORAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA.

Dickinson, J.
Dillinger, Geo.
Gholson, W. :r.r.
Gilkd., W. L.
Gloy , D. J.
Hargrave, A.
Harper, B. M.

Jarret, J. H.
Kaulback, C.
Kingsbury, W. C.
Lawrence, J.
Lovejoy, J. K.
Mumford, James

Pierce, E. H.
Ray, J. F.
Root, J. S.
ltussell, H.P.
Shannon, T. B.
Sharp, Jas.

Smith, R.D.
Taylor, Jos.
Taylor, P • .
Vaughan, J. R.
Ward, J . S.
Ward, T. E.-4-0.

FELLOW ORAl'TS:

Ins, L.

Davis, E. J.

Simmons, J. W.

EN'fEllED APPllENTIOES.:

Gravel Range Lodge, No. 59.
camptOJl"Vil1e, Yuba County.

Stated, Meetings, Monday of or next prece<Zing Fttll Moon.
OFFICERS•

Wm. G. Lockwood, Wor. Ma$1.er,
P. McNulty, Sen. Warde11,
Chas. O'Hara Jun. Warden,
,r. Stevenson, TreMUrer,

Bradlea, J. M.
Bullar , L. J.
Davis, J. II.

Doran, W. :r.I.
Jacks, Richard

Barnet, R. J.
Buckbee, J. n.

Given, W. M.
Harbison, J.

}JAS'fE!t MASONS:

Kendall, Alex.
Kine, L. F.
Leventhal!, H.
lliorgan, L. E.
Morgan, L. H.
l\foMurry, Y. C.
Somerville, JoR.
Sterett, J. W.

Stevenson, W.
Twigg, C. A.
Yariel,J. H.
Webber, R. N.
Williams, J. H.
Woods, W. T.
Wooster, D.
Young, N. G.-42.

Moody, J. W.

OFFICERS•

Smith, W. F.-3.

Hubbs,. J. C.-1.

Pad lllaetera 1

I. E. Paddock,

H. A. Higley,

Porter, J. R.
Shuler, Wm.

McDevitt, A. n.
Scott, Jno.

Bell, S. B.
Jones, B. L.
Evans, C. W.
Kellersberger, J.
Huerstel, Lawrence Lacey, D. S.

M. Fallon.
Shattuck, F. K.
Yard, G. M.-21.

PELLOW OltAFT:

\fll'HDRAWN:

McCormick, T. J.
Nuckols, J. P.

J. E. Whitcher, Se;:retary,
F. Warner, Sen. Deacon,
Geo. M. Blake, Jun. Deacon,
P. Hays, Tyl.er.

S. B. McKee, Wor. Ma,81,er,
S. H. Robinson, Sen. Warden,
Marvel Parker, ,:run. Warden,
J. P. M. Davis, Trea1111rer,

MASTllR MASONS:

ENTERED APPUENTICIC:

Hurris, Matthew,
Fike, Nathan

Zimmerman, J .-6.

Stated, Meetings, firat Friday in each month.

n;LLOW CRAFTS:

,Tones, T. L.

Watts, J.C.

Oakland, Alameda County.

Wm.Elwell.

Crawford, I. ,
Dorsey, Stephen
Dunn, J. A.
Everett, II. S.
Files, J.
Gillespie, J.M.
Gillfillin, Alex.
Hicks, W. J.

. J .-9.

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.

Past Jllastel"a •

Alli8, W.W.
Beaman, J. H.
Bowlby, S. J.
Hradford, J.
Hrown, J. l'.
Buckley, P. II.
Buster, Hiram
Cavin, J.B.

Sterli~, E. C.

True,

WITllDRAWN:

P. L. Wnshburn, Secretary,
J.no. G. McClellan, Se11. Deacon,
Jno. C. Terrell, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. Myers, Tyler.

J. R. Yanoc,

Platt,M.
Smith, Morris

Stratton, Jas. T.-1.
Zimmerman, P.-7.

WITHDllAWN :

Beal, S.
Black, Joseph

Edmondson, P. E.
Evans, Morris

Lengfeldt, Loni~

Richards, W.-6.

DIED:

Spicer, H. C......,l.

Plumas Lodge, No. 60.
Q.ulncy, Plumas County.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each 111011th.
Thos. E. Hayden, Wor. Master,
P. O. Hundley, Se11. WardC/1,
J. H. Whitlock, Jun. Wardm,
D. J. Wilmans, 1te;ui1rer,

A. D. McDonald, Secretary,
- - Patton, Sen. Deacon,
J. H. Houck, Jun. Deac(Yfl 1
A. S. Titus, Tyler.

MASTElt :l!ASONB:

Bancroft, S. H.
BaSl!,J.M.

Ba.ss, R.

Bass, S. D.
Boyd, Jas.
Bradbury, A.

Burton, L. M.
Byers, J. D.
Calkins, S.

George Washington Lodge, No. 62.
Chlneae 1 Tuoln1nne County.

OFFICERS&

Clark,N.
Cross, L.
Dean, W. S..

Stated Meeting.•, Saturday ~-t succe<Zing Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

S. M. Buck, Wor. Ma&ter,
Thoe. Cutler, Sen. Warden,
T. F. Powers, Jun. Warden,
T. B. Dorsey, '.li-eMUrer,
:'IL R. Grahain, Secretar,11,

. H. E. Lea, Sen. Deaccn,
Charles Rice, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Raymond, Marahal,
Jno. Taylor, l Sw cl1
H. Garrett, f
ar '
I. C. Peacock, Tyl.er.

188

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

5857.]

Paat Madera •

Past l'llaaters 1

J.B. Smith,
MASTER ~IASONS:

Adams, J. W.
· Ade.ms, P. H.
Bos..-ert, Peter

Cooper, Chas.
Lewis, W. T.
~fachin, T. N. ·

Mollynee.ux, R.
Shreves, ·G. W.
8pre.gue, Jo~.

Te.ggett, J.
Tannehill, J ..
We.Iker, Wm.~24.

Fl<:LLOW-CUAFT :

MASTER MASONS:

!Jerry, J. H.
Bogan, C. S.
Clark, Isaac
Corey, G. W.

Curran, Hugh
Fink, J. A.
Frauchere, E. ·
Hatch, Moses

Gragg, U. F.

Orr, Jno.

Iloo·t, J.-1.
Love, R. K.

Friedman. A.
Klaske, J\I.

Logan, Samuel
Rouse, J. W.
Ne.pier, G. L.
Sheldon, W.W.
Robinson, J. S. S. · Swart, J. A.-25.

F:KLLOW CllAFTS;

ENTBRED APPR~~NTICES:

Jfovksbier, J.B.
Cohen, Jos.

Alfred Spink@.

M. We.llace,

i\f. R. Gre.he.!11.

. 189

GRAND LODGE 0.1!' CALIFORNIA.

i\fcCullough, J\L-6.

Wl'l'llDl\AWN:

J\Ioore, L. C.

Graham,_J. '"·

Osborne, C. E.

Ott, Jno.-4.

ENTERED APP~ENTICES:

Cox, G. M.
Allen, Robert
Dennison, J. W.
Brown, Wm.
Colwell, Augustus

Elwer, G. A.
Quigley, Il. C.

Richards, AlbCrt
Walker, Wm.-9.

WITRDllAWN:

Spencer, W. K. -7.
Campbell, D. M. K. Ellis, Perry
1 Livingston, Henry
Garr, A.O.

Avery, ll. P.
Burns, Thos.

Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63.

STJnCKEN l'llOM HOLL FOil NON·PAYMENT OF DU:K8:

Holcomb, IL A.-1.

Iowa Hlll 1 Placer County,

Slated Meetings, Wednesday next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

Je.s. W. Johnston, &cretary,
D. i\I. Ford, Sen. Deacon,
L. M. Henry, Jun. Dea.con,
.Tas. Swartwout, fyler.

Geo. Johnston, Wor. Master,
W. D. Lawrence, Sen. W(lrden,
Geo. L. Hamlin, Jun. Warden,
Hquire Powell, Tre(IJ!urer,

Amador Lodge, No. 65.

Past Mau.en 1

Geo. Johnston.

Jackeon, Amador County.

H. W. Roberts.
MAS'f EH MASONS:

Alexander, E.
Arnold, O. P.
Colllns, J. B.
B~mond, W. J .
Hall, G. W.
Hatch,G. T.
Hill, J . T.

Hillier, C. II.
Housel, W. A.
Johns, T. M.
Lackey, W. A.
Ladd, H. C.
Ladd, Theo.
Manse, F. C. R.

Montgomery, Thos. Smith, S. W.
Morrison, R.
Striker, Jno.
McCullogh, A.
Trim, R. M.
O'Neil, Jas.
Vanderlip, Ed.
Parke, F. A.
Waterman, Philip
Scott, W. A.
Warden, L. M.-36.
Sheridan, G. 1\1.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS a

Coleman, J. C.

Cook, R. M.

King, Chas. Rudolph, G.-6.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

!'Alward, P. J.
Grant, H.
Kidd, A. K.

Knuland, Jno.
Levinge, A. K.

Murphey, B.
Riley, Michael

Brown, Wm.

Davis, Abraham,

Stewart, D. K.
Tubbs, M. B.-9.

WITHDHAWN:

Gardner, i\I. S.

Tishler, S. --4.

M. Levinsky, Jun. Deacon.
E. B. Harris, Marahal,
Jno. Levinsky, l St
ck
M. Brummel, f ewar '
J. R. Brown, fyler.

FELLOW CRAF'fS :

Coleman; Ed.

0. D. Auelin, Sen. D-,

Jas E. Graham, Wor. Master,
-----,Sen. Wartkn,
W. S. Cooledge, Jun. Warden,
C. Stickler, Truuurer,
D. Heming, Secretary,
Pn~t.

Mtl•t.ers 1

W.W. Cope,

J as. E. Graham.
MASTER MASONS :

Arata, A,
Beach, D.
Benas, Benj.
Cooledge, J. B.

Farmer, S. M.
Hubbard, J. F.
Husband, Bruce
Kenner, W. W.

EXPELLED.

Levy Samuel
Little, M. J.
Moretto, E. G.

Sharp, W.
Short, Jae,
Zeh, Geo.-25.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Allan, D. N.-1.

Bryant, Jo.s.

Freeman, G. E.-2.
EN'fERED APPltENTIC:KS:

Bummbe, Jos.

Natoma Lodge, No. 64.
Mormon Island, l!lacramento County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next :preceding Full Moon.
OFFICEllS1

Alfred Spinks, Wor. Master,
Leman Bates, Sen. Warden,
;\farcus A. Sawtelle, Jun. Warden,
H. N. H. Brown, Treaaurer,
E. Greenwood, Secretary,

S. G. Elliott, Sen. Dea.con,
David Waldenburg, Jun. Deacon,
E. Rulison,
l «t .,_
Richard Richard, f ..,, ewar.....,
Samuel Hardesty, fykr.

Effner, J.

Hickey, J.- 3.

WITllDRAWN:

Best, Valen tine
Bradbury, J.M.

Brown, G. W.
Crandall, Dwight

Davidson, J. D.
Hayward, A.

Pollard, S. J.-7.

STRICKEN ~'ROM ll.OLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Boynton, Chai!.

Clark, Philo

Gibbons, J. T.
EXPELLED:

Tiehl, Jacob-I.

Rogers, W. M.- 4.

190

6851.]

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Forest Lodge, No. 66.

IJavis, Benj.
Edwards,R.

Foreat City, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

Jno. Kirkpatrick, Wor. MOJJter,
W. M. Flemming, Sen. Warden,
Geo. W. Hopkins, Jun. Warden,
E. Livingston, Treasurer,

V. J. Van Doren, Secret,ary,
Jas. Ga.venly, Sen. De,acon,
J no. Baldwin, Jun. De,acon,
Chas. Houghtelling, 'l'ykr.

Miller, C.

Bottomley, Geo.
Davidson, S, B.
lllll, Jno.

Gaston, H. A.
Greenman, H.
Ha.Iburg, P.R.

Tague, Henry-6.

Hopkins, G. W.
Lyon, Samuel
Marshall, Jos.

Maulden, P.A.
Wa.lda.uer. Julius

'

-11.

STlllCKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

llowman. J.
Corser, H. H.

Kerstein. G.

L•ast llla•tera.

Price, W. V.

Snyder, S. L.-6.

Crowe, E.-1.

M. R. Evans.

EXPELLED:

MASTER MASONS :

Allibaugh, J as.
AmeA, A. L.
Bateman, J.C.
Bonham, Pe1Ty
Cowden, J. A.
Davidson, W. H.
Dunlap, R. R.
Eddy,S. R.
Everheart, G.
l<'leishacker, A.
Foote, L.
Fox, Anthony

Gatewood, T.
Mitchell, Jno.
Goldsworthy, Wm. Patchin, C. H.
Hammond, Samuel Perkins, Geo.
Harris, A. P.
Perry, S. M.
Renning, J. S.
Pratt, W. P.
Hepperly, G. W.
Read. T. A.
Johnson, M. R.
Sa.id, E.
Jones, Chas.
Scott, W.
Kleoker, F. B.
Shaffer, l'. C.
Lohman, Peter
Shaw, F. A.
Lyons, S. M.
Shaw, Geo.
Smith, J. R
Mauldin, P.A.

Garretson, J. R.
Kokernour, Jno.

Lohman, J no.
Reed, Jas.

Bryden, W. M.
Jordan, G. M.

Lutz, Jacob

Stillwell, G. W.
Strauss, E. D.
Swift, S.
Theall, H. W.
Tyrrill, D. M.
Vt111 Vrankin, D.
Waterman, T. A.
Winston, T.
Winters, J. D.
Winters, Theo.
Young, J. C.-67.

!'ELLOW CRAFTS:

Reeser, J. R.
Robertson, J. R.

Shaw,. J. S.~7.

ENTEllEJI APPRENTICES:

McLain, B. F.

QuackenbuAh, C. .L.
-11.

Ray, Elija.h.-1.

Morning Star Lodge, No. 68.
Stockton, San Joaquin County.

Stated Meetings, fourth Th.ursday in each montli.
OFFICERS•

(.), ll. Phelps, Wor. M<S1Jter,
[,, C. Van Allen, Sen. Warden,
T. R. Eddie, Jun. Warden,
}<;, B. Bateman, Tre,amrer,
Julius George, Secretn.ry,
O. Fisher, Ohapl,ain,

0. C. Gage, Sen. De<UXm,
Jno. Henderson, Jun. D«l.con,
G. W, Peachy. Marahal,
W. S. Overheiser, l St
da
Thos. Driver,
f ewar •
A.G. Brown, 'l'ykr.
Poot lllnHtl'rH 1

Lemuel Lyon, P.S.G. W.

Wm. G. Ca.nclerH.

MASTER MASONS:

WITHDRAWN:

Lohman, H.J.

Stilck, F. W.
WITHDRA.WN :

SUSPENDED:

John B. Bope, J.G. W.

Anderson, Jno.

19i

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO&Ni.A.

Miller, G. H.

Walda.uer, J.-4.

Baggs, Wm.
Bennett, A. ll.
Blackwell, Wm.
Buffington, J.M.
Byrkit, A.

Fullerton, W. McD. Neil, W. JI.
Gillingham, H. W. Osborne, T. C.
Hickman, Edward Peyton, V. M.
Hoffman, C. H.
Shurtleff, G. A.
Sperry, A ..
HugginR, H. S.

Stevenson, R. W.
Underhill, H.B.
Va.nsycle, J, M.
Vaughan, A. Y.
Wolf,·A.-34.

~:Nn:RJ;D APPRENTICES:

Boone, G. W.

Minnesota Lodge, No. 67.
llllnneaota, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Pull Moon.
OFFICERS a

C. H. Fish, Sen. Deacon,
L. Willia.ms, Jun. Deacon,
F. l\foG~en, l Stewar~.
Wm. Slinger, f
Jos. Blackburn, Ty'tt:r.

J. S. Blackwell, Wor. Ma.lter,
A. Whelan, Sen. Warden,
J. A. Tyree, Jun. Warden,
H. McNulty, Trearurer,
L. Goodwin, Secret,ary,

Pad lllaatera •

J. S. Blackwell.

P. W. Coppers,
MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, J.
Bandy, J.
Burmister, F.
Commisky, P.
Conrad, J.
Conway, JaA.

Cooper, J.E.
Crafts, S. S.
Don Levy, P. C.
.Ferguson, W. T.
Goldsworthy,Jas.
Hanchett, L. J.

Harkness, T. C.
Herriman, M. S.
Irwin, L.
Ma.es, C. H.
Myers, C. F.
McCra.ney, Wm.

Cutting, L. C.-2.
WlTllDRAWN:

Olmstead, S. H.
Oren, J.E.
Paulfsen, F.
Rapp, Peter
Taylor, J. M.
Va.nDecar, E. H.-M.

Benadom, J osb.
[,yon, .T. W.

Manning, Rockwell Reid, R. K.
Pope, W. A.
Simmon~, .T. C.

Stevenson, W.W.
Verill, G. S.-8.

eUSl'ENDED :

Bours, A. L.-1.

Corinthian Lodge, No. 69.
lllarysvtlle, Vuba County,

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each inonth.
OFFICERS.

W. H. Wickersham, Wor. Master,
· D. C. 'Stone, Secretn.ry,
M. D. Dobbins, Sen. Warden,
W. P. Thompson,'Sen. Deac<m
J. S. Belcher, Jun. Warden,
L. Dingman, Jun. Dea~, .. '
LI. A. Elwell, 2're,arurer,
F. Schreiber, (of Marysville Lodge,) fyler.

192

(May, .

JOUR1'At OF PROCEEDINGS.

~851.]

GRAND WDGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Prutt lUnsters 1

James Allen,

W. H. Wickersham.

C. F. Colton.

Paet Master•1

J.E. Woodford,

B. F. Wayne•

. MASTER MASONS :

Brooks, S.
Brumagim, J. H .
Decker, P.
Dekay, Wm.
Felton, C. N.
Foster, J. J .

MASTER MASONS 1

Hatch, F. L.
Little, S. H.
Holmes, F. S.
Meek, N. D.
Laird, L.
Morse, H.
Latham, W. B.,Jr. McCormack, T. J.
Levy, J.
Otis, T. P.
Lindley, C.
Rice, E. E.

Schermier, J.M.
Sharkey, Wm.
Stanwood, R. G.
Webb, J. J.
Wes.t coat, N clson
Woodrow, E.-aa.

Blair, H.
Cotton, J, M.
Davidson, K.
Fitz James, J.

Herrington, H.
Hoyt, E. C.
Hunter, J.

Dunham, J .-2.
KNTER l!:D APPRENTICES:

Thornburgh, W. B.-3.

Payne, Sumner
ENTERED APPRENTlCES:

Haymood, C.

Allen, D.

Martin, H. T.

:McDaniel, J.-4.

WITHDRAWN:

Reinhnrdt, S.-2.

Harrington, W. P.

Van Sickle, A •.K.
Wentworth, J, G.
Whitlatch,. D.-23.

l'KLLOW CRAllT8:

Bross, l'.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Daley, J. L.

Kyle, S. B.
Matthews, J. II.
Pollard, A. A.

Alvord, H.
Bartlett, E. D.

Creek, C. Y.

White, G. G.

Williamson,.H. 11'.-6. ,

WlTllDRA WN :

Fitzgerald, H.
Fleishman, J.

F'reeman, C. D.
Hall, C.

Hamilton, W. S.

Sinclair, J. W.-6.

DIED :

Wilkins, Douglass J.-I. .

E. K. Kane Lodge, No. 72.
Nevada, Nevada <lounty.

Enterprise Lodge, . No. 70.

Stated Metting11, Fritiay flf or 11ezt prec~din,q Full M0011.

Yuba Ctty, Sutter Cou.nty.

OFFICEHS1

Stated Meetings, Saturday of ar ne.xt preding F'ltll Moo11.
OFFIUERS1

J. E. Stevens, Wor. ltlaater,
A. B. Davis, Sen. Warden, ·
Milton Bassett, Jun. Warden,
Jno. M. Fronk, 'Prea8Urer,

C. E. Wilcoxon, Secretary,
J. S. Ramsey, Sen. Deacon,
Ira H. Wood, Jun. Deacon.,
Geo. l\I. Fronk, Tyler.

.r. N. Arnold, &n. lkacon,

C. C. Green, Wor. MarJtm·,
'f. H. Rolfe, Sen. Warlkn,
Sol. Kohlmo.n, Ju11. Wardei1,
Chas. Marsh, Treasurer.
J. V. Watson, Se.cretar!J,
S. i\f. Morrison, Ohaplain,

A. V. Allen, Jun. Deacon,
U. H. Seymour, Marahal,
D. Crittenden, l Stew th
D. Gatzert, f
or •
.J. W. Hastings, 1'gler.
Pad lllaatera 1

Past Mast.;r• 1

D. H. Apperson,

C. E. Wilcoxon,

0. II. Seymour,

,J. E. Stevens.

Chas. Marsh, .D. G. M.
llABTl!:ll :UASON8 :

MASTER MASONS:

Boon, R. G.
Brown, I. A.
Brown, 0. H. l'.
Bullard, I. P.
Burson, Ella.~,
Cro.ine, Edwin
Cross, S. Z.

Dillon, J.P.
Edwards, J. E.
Gaither, J. W.
Goode, D. D.
H11.nson, G. 1\1.
Hightower, A. S.
~;NTERED

Jones. L. G.
McCall, J. B.
McClure, C. C.
Painter, B. B.
Ramey, Isaac
Ream, J •. A.

Allen, A. D.
Axley, A. D.
Bleiman, A.
Denzer, C.
F..uly, J. D.

Hertziuger, J .
Hicks, N. A.
Huut, R. M.
Josephson, C.
Kel\ting, T.

Hendrickson, 1\1.

FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAUU:N'r OF nm:s:

Northoul\I', .L.-~.

Bruce, M.-1.

WITHDRAWN:
8TR1CK~;N

Smith, 0. ~:
Stiles, H. R.
Watson , 'V. F , t •
Zimmerm1m, J.-:ll.

Y.NU:R.Jm .APl'ltENTlC.R :

Richitrds, J as.

Ashford, J. Q.-1.

Kilburg, A. M.
McGloin, P.
Peters, G. A. ·
Rosenheim, !If.
Searles, N.

l<~LLOW OR.AFrs :.

Davis, B. 'f.

APPRENTICES:

Lucas, J.B.

Fish, P. W.

Sanburn, S.
Shore, J. A.
Shore, S. D.
Taylor, L. W.
Vaughn, C; L. N.
Watson, G. W.-34.

WITRDR.AWN :

Ash, Leo.

Granda.II, O.

May, F.-:1.

Nicholas, Jno.-1.

Tyro Lodge, No. 73.
Nebraska Lodge, No. 71.
Michigan Bar, SncrtUnento Cow1ty.

Stated Meetings, second Friday in each montlt.
W. B. Kingsbury, Wor. Ma~ter,
l<'. Riley, Sen. Warden,
·
M. Perry, Jun. Wardm,
C. Fuller, Tremurf"" .

OFFICER81

W. J. Stoddart, Secreta"!J,
J. W. Williamson, Sen. DMJXm,
J. Riggs, Jun. /Jtac()TI,
S. W. Brown, Tyler.

Drytown, Amador County,

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or next preceding l'ttlt Muo~1.
Ol<'FTCEllS;

S. F. Benjamin, Wor. .Maater,
A. C. Hinkson, Sm1. Wardei1,
1-~dward Gallagher, Jun. Wardei1,
C.H. Misner, 1'reamrer,
IV. E. McGready, Se.cretary,
.Y. W. Glover, Chaplain,

25

W. T. Curtis, &11. Deacon~ ,
J. H. Hinkson, Jun.
J<J. A. McClure, .Mar1hal.
D. J. Bell, l ,.,_ _,_
J. Louis, j ""'wara..
Thos. Sheridan, Pvr..

Deacon:

194

[.May,

.JOURNAL OF PROOEEJ)JNOS.

5857.]

GRAND LODGE

Past Master•

MASTER MASONS:

S. 'F, Benjamin.
MASTER MASONS.

Hinkson, A. H.
Johnson, Alex.
Mayers, Chris.

(.)ochre.n,J.
Die.mood; Benj.
Gallagher, Joo.

Milton, J as. H.
Richardson, A. S.

Smith, Robert
Wisse.rt, F. X.-22.

Allman, Samuel
Beck, H. S.
Bragg, Justus
Ingram, Jasper
Johnson, A. C.

Johnson, R. R.
Moore, S. D.
McC!ung, Wm.
McClure, Wm.
Olds,(), C.

King,J. H.

Tupper, Geo.-3.

O'Donnell, Ja~.

Nicholson, Lewi~

WITIIDRA WN :

Gillam, B. H.-2.

Raymond, Jal!.-8.

Miller, W. L. G.-1.

Hinkson, H. P.-4.

Fox, C. W.

Auerbach, Henry,

Stewart, J oaeph
Vosburgh, Isaac
Van de Walker,A.K.
Ware, L.-28• .

)lNTERED AJ'PRENTICE:

RNTERED APPRENTICES:

Dudley, C. E.

Darnes, C. W.

Parks, Andrew
Reynolds, T.
Rodgers, D. W.
Serand, Paul

~'KLLOW-OltAFTS:

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Cosmer, Robert

195

or OALIJ'ORNIA.

WlTHDRAWN:

Bush, Squiro
Caro, S. D.
Craig, David

I<'rone, Wm.
Green, Benj.
Hughes, G. W.

Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74.

Murphy; Francis
Newby, B. I<'.
Nichols, H. C.

Tucker, Allen
VanAllen, P.C.-11.

Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76.

Whconaln Hill, Placer Clouuty.

Stated Meetin,q8, &turday neri:t preceding Full Moon.

Angel's Clamp, Clalavera• Clounty •

OFFICERS a

•stated .Meetings, Wednesday of or nat preceding FuU Moon.

B. F. Marsh, Secretary,
J. F. Woddail, Sen. Deacon,
S. Stoneberger, Jun. Dt11con,
Thos. Hager, 'Jlyle:r.

W. C. Rich, Wor. M<Ute:r,
H. H. Stevens, Sen. Warden,
W. W. Whipple, Jun. Warden,
A. G; Allenson, Treaaure:r,

Past Maate1·& 1

B. C. McCurry.
MASTER MASONS:

Levin,J.
Major, H.
McMurry, J. D.
Neff, J. A.

Cravens, R. O.
Crutcher, W. M.

Dull', A•.

Herpse, A.

Ormsby, C. N.
Patton, J. W.
Stewart, W. W.
Tidd, J.M.

Tyree, J. A.
Willie.ms, R. L.
Worley, S. J.-25.

FELLOW CRA~'T:

OFFICERS a

F. R. Sponsler, Wor. MIUl.er,
Cha.s. Dickinson, Sen. Warden,
Jno. C. Scribner, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Coddington, Treaaurer,
Wm. A. Kelly, Stcrelary,

H. H. Reynolds;

Past Mader• 1

W.A. Kelly.
MASTER MASONS:

Brooks, E. J.
Brooks, M. B. .
Bush, Ephraim

Frazier, E.
Friedberger, A.
Lake, C. G.

Selkirk, David
Mays, W.R.
O'Leary, Oorneliue Tryon, G. C.-22.
Reddick, Wm.
•

FELLOW-CRAFTi:

Patton, R. R.

Stratton, T. B.

Kelly, Jas.

ENTERED APPREN'fICES:

Smith, G. E.

Westbrook, H. F.-1.

WITIIDRAWN:

WITIIDRAWN:

. Thurman, L. B.-3.

Stovall, W. W.

Straus, B.-3.

};NTERED APPRENTIOE:

Spicer, S. A.

l!ingleton, J. J.

Jas. Mattson, Sen. D«U:On,
S. S. Abbott, Jun. IJ«Jcon,
E. S. Camp,
l St ...,_
Robert Graham, f ewanoo,
B. Rasberry, 1}/kr.

Williams, P. A.-1.
DIED:

Williamson, Jno.-1.

Mountain Forest Lodge, No. 75.
Eureka, Sierra Clounty.

Stated Meeting81 Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

Jacob S. Ewalt, Wor. M<Ute:r,
D. W. Mitchell, Sen. Warden,
Wm. B.Hlckok,Jun. Warden,
Que. Rels, Trtanirtr,

Petaluma, Sonoma Clounty.

L. B. Frankell, Secretary,
Joo. R. Ellis, Sen. Deacon,
R. M. Norvall, Jun. Deacon,
H. Hyman, ~ler.
Paat Ma&ter• t

B. P. Benton,

Petaluma Lodge, No. 77.

D. A. Clowes.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preeeding Full .Moon.
OFFICERSt

B. Newman, Wor. Maste:r,
J. B. Hogle, Sen. Warden,
Jas. Singley, Jun. Warden.
W. L. Anderson, Treamre:r.

A. P. Overton, SfX:ftll.ary,
F. J. Benjamin, Ben. Dt11bm,
W. D. Trinque, Jun. Demxm.
Uriah Edwards, 1}/ler.

[.May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

5857.]

Humboldt Lodge, No. 79.

Ptutt Mnoter •

Tho8. L. Barnes.
~ASTER

Goodspeed, F.
Hardin; J.
Holman, J. A.
Howe, Henry
Huie, J. T.
Hnnt, Chas.
King, Samuel

Alberding, Fred.
HBl58ett,Heman
Conley, Wm.
Gramer, J.C.
CroBB,J. D.
Dashiell, Benj.
EUis, Jno.
Fine, J. H.

Buckaport, Humboldt County.

MASONS:

Smith, S. J.
Stewart, J as.
Swinerton, W. R.
Thompson, Jef.
Thompson, P. R.
Walker, J. R.
Walkt-r, L. J.-38.

Lee, W. G.
Pettns. J . E.
Phinney, R.
Powell, Jno.
Rathboun, E.
RogerR, A. W.
Samuels, .Tame~

Stated Meetings, first Thur1day in eacli month.
OFFICERS•

A. J. HeuHtis, Wor. JfI11ster,
R. M. Stoker, Sen. Warden.
C. W. Long, Jun. Warden,
J. R. Moloney, Trea~rer,
J. N. Hnme, Secrnl/.ry.

;J. DcHaven, Sen. Deacon,
I. J. Upton, Jun. Deacan,
J as. Hanna, 1Yarahal,
Wm. H. Conklin, l "t
_,_
H. I•'. Fi~k,
f "·twarr..,
It. G. Simonton, Tyler.
Paat lllaatera s

~'l<lLJ,OW CRAF'r:

J. R. Molony,

Eaylief, T. F:-1.
Rudesill, A. C.
Vincent, Albert

Latapie, E.
McGuire, - -

White, Ja8.-7.

Carson, Wm.
Comstock, H. S.

1Javi8, J.

Davis, F..:. L.

Downham,Edw.
Fairchild, J. A.

Craon, A.
FremlcnRt.ein, M.

Lan.ildon, J. P.
M1ntin, W. C.

Ho:i;well, Geo.
Dupern. Numa

Howard, E. B.

WITHDRAW:S:

Brush, G. R.
Derrick, .T. C.

Bonham, B. B.
Bouton, A. P.

DH:D:

J as. Finnie, Sen . .Duuim,
R. W. RuBl!ell, Jun. Dw.con,
E. J. Attinelli, Jfarahal,
Jo~..Kerns, l Stewa.rd&
Ph1hp Stone, f
'
N. ll. Jenks, Tyl.er.
Paa t 111 alters •

N. D. Jeoks.

G. Garretsee,
MASTEH MASONll:

Gummings, T. J.
D1rnning, H. W.
HudgiM. Philip

Norcross, N. T.
Shaul, G!!P·

CowlC!!, Timothy
Latimer, Daniel
:Morse, Chauncey
McCracken, R.

Pomphret, Richard
Wallace, E.
Webb, M. T.-27.

WilROll, J. G.-6.

OFFICERS s

Jno. C. Gea~, War. Ma&ter,
Jno. E. Hunt, Sen. Warden,
J. B. Gregory, Jun. lVardm.
C. Leneger, 'l'rea8!1rer,
J. Farnesworth. Secrelar!I,

Jno. W. Surface, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. J . Smith. Junior Deacon,
Wm. Hcrnes,
l
A. J<~. Callaway, f Stewarda,
A. D. Kibbee, Tyler.
1•1ut llJ ..ster •

A. E. Callaway.
MASTKli! MASO.N8:

Henedicks, A.
Eagon, J. A.
Livermore, Ja!I.

Lyon,'L. G.
Newman, David

Poe, Jno. 'f.
Simpson, H.

Stephens, It. F.
Withington,R.H.-19.

n:LWW-<::RAi'TS:

Aikins, J.B.

Beck, J. J.
J::NTJ<:J:Jm APl'llENTICt:S:

Carter, H. A.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Murphy, Morris

WilliamR, D. D.

lone, Amo.dor Couut.y.

OFFICERS a

Haskell, J. P.

Sevier, A. D.-6.

Stated ,1!eeti11y1J, Saturda11 of or next preceding Full Moon.

8tated .Veetings, Saturday of or next7Jreceding Full Moon.

Gatewood, W. J.
Goldstein, M.

Pickard, D.

Ione Lodge, No. 80.

Son Andren&, CalaverDS County.

Brotherton, T. W.
Clow, J.C.
Coldren, E. R.
Cook, J. A.H.

l'ine, C. A.
ltunclcll, C. II.
Whipple, S. G.-24.

WITllDllA W .N:

Calaveras Lodge, No. 78.

Austin, Horace
Beatty, T. N.
Blancbard, Seth
Bode, Herman

Fleishman, H.
Gilmore, Alex.
Legg, F. W.

t ::S'f EIU:D Al'l'ltENTIClS:

Maxey, P. L.
Ratbboun, J. S.-!!.

GoES11ge, J. 11.
Huft~ J . G.

Stodola, Samuel-I.

Mo!!es Thorpe, War. Ma&er,
Orpheus Smith, Sen. Warden,
E. R. Purple, Jun. Warden,
B. J. Latz, Trcamrer,
Ja& Barclay, Secretary,

b. L. Shaw.

)JASTl:R MASON l:i:

ll:STER}:D APPRlrnTICES :

Codding, S. R.
Parley, - -

197

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Flint, U.

Sutherland, Jno.

VanNess, W. 11.- -4

Osborne, C. L.-6.

};NTEUF.D APPREN'l'ICES:

Soyder; Peter, .
Steams, W., H.

Williams, J. S.
Wilmer, Robert-9.

Yolo Lodge, No. 81.
Yolo, Yolo Connty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or iuxt preceding Full .Moon.

WITllDRAW.N :

Bright, P. :M.-1.

01''FICERS I

~TRIC.KEN )'JIOM ROLL FOR NON·PAYMENT OF DU.E5:

Rea, Jas.

·Snyder, Wm.-2.
DIED:

Fox, D. D.

Kin!eyside, Peter.-2.

W. F. Anclerson, JV01.. Mal!fer,
N. Wykoff, Sm. Warden.
J . Stevens, Jun. lVarden,
J. T. Boone, 'flrtaaurt'f',

E. Giddings, Secretary,
C. 'b. Davis, Sm. Deacon,
B. F. Tebbs, Ju11. Dearon,
Geo. Snodgra8s, Tyl.u .

198

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

6857.j

Paat Master 1

Paut Maatort

J. W. Harville.

W. F. Anderson.

MASTER MASONS :

'!ASTER MASONS:

Gottwals, C.
Grey, F. G.
Hambright, B.

Brown, G. F.
Derrick, J .C.
Forman, J. L.

Tebbs, Q. C.
Travers, Chae.-l 11.

Pockman, T. C.
Riggs, H. C.
Schindler, D.

}'ELLOW.CRAFT:

Diggs, D. l'.-1.
J<;NU:ll.ED APPRENTICE.'! :

Tepscomb, R. S.-2.

Borden, Wm.

Baker, D. J. ·
Burrows, G. W.
Butts, Geo.
Colcord, M. S.
Corah, R.
Cravens, R. O.
Crompton, H . J.
Decker, G. W.

Duck, Wm.
Foskett, E. D. C.
Frye, J. H. P.
Graham, 'W. G.
Hackett, J. M.
Henson, W. T.
Herrick, Ja~.
Hill, A. J.

WITIIDRAWN :

li'incb, A. M.

Mountain Lodge, No. 82.

· Lister, W. M.-2.

Vesper Lodge, No. 84.

Don Pedro'• Bar, Tuolumne Count;y.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

Red Bluft'o 1 Sbaata County.

OFFICERS•

Stated Meetings, Thursday next preceding lidl Moon.
A. Morgan, Secrdary,
S. H. StevenM, Sen. DWXlft.
P. O'Neal, Jun. Deamn, ·
Caspar Sharp, Tyler.

Z. P. Cole, Wor. Ma3ter,
Wm. Camick, Sen. Warden,
N. Bond, Jun. Warden,
Z. M. Porter, 'Jlre,asurer,

.

Past Mo.lifter t

OFJ<' ICERS 1

Dennis Dunn, Wor. Ma3t.er,
E. Jackson, Sen. Warden,
Wm. A. Roll, Jun. Warden ,
Geo. Sherman, 'Jlreaaurer,

C. Gilmlln.
:U .~ S1'ER

Block,E.
Cook, J. H.
Cope, F. S.
Cope, J . F.

Waddell, Thos.
Warsbu!g, L.
White, W.R.
Wilkerson, Achilles
Williams, R.
Wilson, J. L.
Young, II. M.-42.

Brohard, J. D.-1.

Simpeon., G. E.-a.

Jury, J. S.

Hoskins, Avery
Kirby, J . E.
Lon~ley, J. H.
Martm, G. M.
Powell, P .
Read, A. G.
StepheuR, W. S.
Thayer, F. M.

t:NTERED APPHE NTIC}::

WI'fHDRAWN:

Isbell, Wm.

199

GRAND LODGE OF OALiFORNiA.

Holmes, Tbos.
Muir, Wm.
ParsonR, Oti8

A. H. Stout. Secretary,
G. W. Hoag, Seri. D~,
T. J. Butler, Jun. IJeacun,
N. B. Gay, 'l'J.11#r.
Pait !I aate1· 1

J. G. Doll.

MASON!!:

Starr, C. A.
Stevens, R. D.
Wilson, P. P.-22.

Piley, H.
Rolfe, N.
Sherwood, J.

~·i;:LLOW.CR.HTS:

Hal~e, A. W.

Davis, D. E.
KNTl;:Jti;D Al'PJti;:NTlCES:

Squires, S. S.

Stevens, C. F.-2.
WITllDRAWN :

Gibson, J. T.

Hoyt, Samncl-2.

MASTKlt MASONS:

Bradley, J. U.
Bull, AlphenR
Broadwater, W. S. Dye, J.M.
Brownstine, Geo. Earl, J ,

EdmondM, Ii'.
l:l1nrison, W.R.
Ide, J. M.

:Meador, M.
Veatch, J , A.
Webb, A. H.--21.

Fl!LLOW.CRU'Tt!:

Craig, Alex.

Gellan, L. S.-3.

Galland, J. B.
ENU:IU:D APPREN'1'1CE8:

Cop~land, H. C.

Hflmmers, Geo.

Riser, Bilis

Whitehurst,J.C,-4,

WITHDRAWN:

T>nnlelH, S.

Hnmpbry, E.

Neil, B.-3.

. Rising Star Lodge, No. 83.
Todd'• Vnlle;y, Pincer County.

Indien Diggings Lodge, No. 85.

Stated J(eeti11g11, Saturday of or ne~ .preceding full moon.

lndlRll Dltrtrlng•, .El Do•·n<lo County.

O FFICER!l1

Staled Meetittgs, Saturday of or next precedin,q l!ull Moon.

J. W •.Harville, Wor. Master.
Martin Hoover, Sen. Dew:on,
Artem11.11 Baker, Sen. Warden,
Elias Waldron, Jun. D=n,
J. M. Miner, Jun. Warden,
Chas. La Salle, Mar1hal,
S. S. Willard, ~er,
A. Knapp, l St a d3
Wm. Hufus Longley, St!Cl'dary,
~[. L. Todd, j ew r •
. Wm .. T. McGinnis, Tyler.

OFFICERS•

J. B. Carter, Wor. MruLer.
E. H. Dumhte, Sen, Wardffl,
J . D. Collins. Jun. Warden,

A. Bra.ult, n-eamrer,

H. W. Ege1ston, Secretary,
T. Y . Williams,. Senior DenC<111;
Jno. Gates, Jun. Deamn;
H. Hall, Pyler,

,
Mo

[ Ma.11,

JouiiNAL OF PROCEEDINOil.

5851.]

Put llla.oter 1

Past .Master•

Jno. R. Bird.

E. Bogardus.

llABTER MASONS:

~!ASTER MASONS :

Mechlenberg, J.
Morgan. W.
McCure, F.
McDonald, Geo.

Dake, L.
Gibson, P.
Harrison, J . H.
Holliday, Wm.

Blockma.n, A.
Chandler, Jos.
Clayborn, R. R.
Colenburg, H.
Collins, J. S.

Phelps, M.
ReynoldA, J.
Thompson, D. P.
White, O. P. H.-26.

Brownlee, Thos.
Bean, L. W.
Cheeney, W. B.
Beoas, Beaj.
Brownlee, Robert Hook, Henry

Meagher, De11!1la
Mooden, G. R.
·
.McLaughlin, P.-21.

Hussey, Chas.

Williams, 0.-S.

KN'lERED APPRENTIC}:S:

Smith, Wm.-1.
E!STERED APPllENTICf;8 :

Languedoc, W.

Jones, W. D. .
Macauley, J.B.
Mano, Jas.

FELLOW·0RAFTS:

Flanders, Nathan

YELLOW-CRAFT:

Clayton, P.
Grodmohl, - -

201

GRAND LODGE OF 0At1.foilNtA.

Loveless, S.

Malone, Gco.-6.

Martin, Cornelius

Frisbie, Elizur
Hall, O. A.

Milks, E.

Richardson, .M. H.
-6.

WITHDRAWN:

Mitchell, B. R.

Wilmot, Wm.-2.

wrrHDRAWN:

.JackR, J.-3.

-ll:\le, S.

GoldRteln, S.

Quitman Lodge, No. 88.
Orlean• Fllt, Nevada Oounty.

St. Louis Lodge, No. 86.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

St. Lout&, Sle1•ra County.

OJl'Jl'JCERll1

Stated Meetin,gs, Saturday of or neat precedit1g Full Moon .
OFFICERS•

Geo. W. Cox, &crdary,
W. W. Withrow, Sen. /Je=m,
Hichard Brown, Jun. Dem:rm,
Chl\8. W. Hendel, T11ler.

Joel Eveland, Wor. lrlaster,
R. D. Hill, Sen. Warden,
W. R. Libbey, Jun. 1Varde11,
B. Pf\lmer, Treast1re?".

Pa•t Masters I

,Tobu W. Tingley,

Andrew Hanna, Wor. Mas/a,
H.B. Coyaux, Sm. Df,(U)OR,
S. B. Blakesley, Jun. Deacoo.
R. B. Moyes, Sen. Warden,
.J. P. Brinton, Mar1hal,
Thos. W. Triplett, Jun. Warden,
Jno. Noyes,
l
Jno. Caldwell, TrtaaUrer,
H.J. Greenman, f Steward•,
S. B. Hickman, Seeret.ary,
W. H. Hopkins, .ij,iler.
Pa.ot ~(a•ters 1

Jae. St.. G. WilRon.

D. S. Olds, P. J. G. J-J~

J, M. Gregg,

M.ASTt:R MASONS:

Anderson, J 110.
Beal, C. C.
Bump, Peter
Butler, C. D.
Clark, Orns.
Coho, Heiman
Cox, M. T.
Downer, J. W.

Ora.kc, H. G. O.
Eidson. N. B.
Eve, George
I:<' oRter H. E.
Fraler: Cha~.
Giraud 1 Daniel
Harris A. J.
Harwo~d, Jno.

Hill, N. S.
Howe, A. J .
Jump, Alcmby
Kerr, Henry
Knouth, Fred.
Mar~b, Allen
llliller, J.P.
Morrison, T. F .

Gordon, Tho~.

Griswell, Amos

MAS'lER MASONS :

l\lcRoddin , D11vid
Ong,J. W.
Parvin, W. L.
Small, Jacob
Wallace, Si!M
Watkin", T.
White, P ..T.- 41.

Aiken, Samuel
Arnold, Geo.
Barry, J. K.
Butterfield, R. W.
Eaker, Jacob
Gray, Jno. M.
Harris, C. W. B.
Julian, Humphrey

Kingman, H. J.
Lambltti, S. H.
Lang, Frank
Lawrence, A.
Mead, Stephen
Mead, Wm.
Montinall, F.
Morrow, W. R.

Schott, C-•.

Hunter, J, M.

Jonee, C. B.

FEl..1..0W CRAl'1'S:

Hdin, Alfred

HollingHworth, M. Page, Benj.
.foukins, J . W.

.'.\lorrow, W. R.
Ozencler, JoPl

Rigley, J. A.
St.<>w11rt, M. S.

W11'!1DUAWN:

Tranor, Jno.
Turner, Geo.

Shdden. B.- G.
We~l, J. W.-7.

Scott, W. A.
Sichcll, A.
Singleton, .M. A.
Smith, J. L. P.
Snapp, S. D.
Tyler, Samuel
Wood, W. C.- ••.

FELJ,OW CRAFTS:

E'.'!Tt, Rl.m .Al!PllENTICKS:

Creely, J 11.~.
Deubell, L. G.

McNab, G. G.
Nngcnt, A. S.
Oppenheim, P. B.
Pease, S. 0.
Pickle, W. C.
Ream, Jeremiah
Reed, J. D.
Sackett, L, A.
McLean, P. M.

Rooney, J. M.-•.

ENTERED APPRENTIC.f:S:

Barnes, W. C.
Belnap, W.

Blackwell, S. L.
Cougar, Joo.

Anthony, Ja• .

Chapman, L. G.

Dill, E.
Hotchkiss, H.B.

Kinny, H . L.-7.

WITHDRAWN:

Dlevendorft', Henry Friel, J eremlah-4.

l!XPEJ,LKD:

'rPkusch, Wm. (E. A.)- 1.

Rose's Bar Lodge, No. 89.
Ro•e'• Bar, (Empire Ranch,) Yuba Couut7.

Naval Lodge, No. 87.
'\' ollejo, Solnno Connty.

Stated Meetings, third Thursday iii each mu11th.
OFFlCEU81

.~braham Powell, Jr., Wor. Master,

Wm. Aspinall, & 11 • Warden,
Isaac Hobbs, Jun. Warden,
Jas. Logan, Tnamrer,

Alex. GL1.ffy. Secrdary,
C. H., Oliver, Sen. Deawn,
Denms Kd.!J, Jun. Deacon,
Joo. Lee, 7'ykr.

Stated Meeting1, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

B. M. Sawin, Wor. Maater,
A. L. Morrison, Sen. WarcU11,
R. Dillon, Jun. WarcU11,
N. 0. Lawton, Trea.!llrtr,
Henry Hogarth, &crdary,
J . G. Potter, Ohaplain,

26

.

M. Coleman, Sen. Dtawr1,
F. Greenwold, Jun. Dtacon,

l

.~. 0. Hyde, Marshal,

' "
C. Lintott,
St~r.JU,
L. C. Carpenter,
·-:~ .: ~;­
U. R. Sheldon, 7ykr. · ·

202

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINOl!I.

5857.]

Pnat lllaste1· 1

ENTERED Al'P&ENTICES:

Cowden, J, S.
Gartrell, Caleb

B. M. Sawin.
MASTER MASONS :

Boyc.e , S. G.
Clark, L.B.
Congdon, G. N.
Courtright, W. H.
Craemcr, J. A.

Dykeman, H.
England, C.
Gregory, Wm.
Henry, J.
Kellogg, H.B.

208

f1RAND LODGE OF OALIJ'ORNIA.

Landgrage, G.
Long, U. AI.
Merrill, W. P.
Meyers, C. U.
McCrackin, J.M.

Parke, J.
Pearl, W. M.
Rogers, S. J. S.
Wilbur, J.-lll.

Huff, J. F.
Ingram, Peter

Palmer, N. N.
Pennington, B. C.

Steele, F. H.-7.

WJTIIDRA WN:

Davidson, D. N.

Hockensmith, M.-2.

ENTERED APPRENTlC.b::

Bradley, M.-1.

Acacia Lodge, No. 92.

WITIIDRAWN:

Coloma, El Dorado County,

llfyor, F. A.-i.

Hutchins, J. U.

Stated Meetinga, Thuradag of 01· 1iext preceding Full Moon.

8TRICKEN l'ROM HOLL WR. NON-I'AYM>:NT 01' lJUJ;S :

Prn-in, A.-1.

OFJo'lCEIU; I

Thos. M. Recd. Wor. M<Utv,
A. W. Cullom, Sen. Warden,
D. C. McKenney, Jun. Warden,
J. S. Chapman, 'l'reamrer,
Thoe. Wren, Secretary,

Polar Star Lodge, No. 90.

G. ll. Gilbert, Sen. D=n,
Robert Chalmers, Jun. DtacCft,
R. Bell,
t Si
d
H. S. Herrick, f tewar ' ·
J. S. Ford, fykr.
Paat llladera

Fo1·ka oC Poor lUan•a Creek, Plumas County,

Tbos. M. Reed.

Stated Jlee#ngs, Saturday of or nat pi·eceding Full Moon.

l!ASTKR MASONS :

OFFICERS1

Geo. W. Adams, Secreta1y,
Almus Stebbins, &n. Dtaccm,
A. A. Cummings, Jun. Dearo11,
Tho~. McA!li8tt'r, Tykr.

D. \V. 0. Baird, Wor. Ma6ter,
H . C. Hampson, Sen. Warden ,
J as. ·corcoran, Jun. Warden.
Roi.Jprt Gunton, Trea8urer,
Hodgkin!I, C.
Hudson, J. F.
Kelly, R. C.

Levy, H.
Long, A.
Mahler, TI.
Moore, J.
AforrlR, J.

Camp, D.

Clces, J . 1'.

Lester, T. G.
Long, D. P.
Naylor, W. F. S.

Tomlinson, A. A.
WnitR, A. E.-19.

Camp, E.

McDonald, R.

lfcDougald, J.A.-i.

Merrill, A. W.

Merrill, D. S.

\V'ilcy, J . P.-4.

WITllDllAWN :

Reynolds, J .-2.

A11dcr11011, G. C.

ENTEREll APPltENTJCES :

Hnrlburt, G. D.

McConnell, Wm.

Stt.nforil, J. N.--4.

Tally, W. W.-!I.

McCabe, J. P.

Davis, W. S.

dtnoltz, A.
Thulin, N. L.
Van Guelder, A. A.
Weymouth, J. L.
Williama, T. H.-31.

EN'!'llREU APPRENTICES:

FELLOW CRAiTB:

PePl, J. J, L.

Nelson, A.
Noteware, C. N.
lto.cklitr, c. J.
Robertson, Tbos.
Smith, L. S.
F.ll:I,LOW OUAJ!TS:

MAS'U:tt ~1ASONS:

mmons, •r. H.
lfarmon, L. N.
Hllys, Edwllrd

Borowsky, M.
Carson, E. B.
Farley, M.
Grace, N.
Hedrick, J.
Johnson, J.

WITHDRA'll'N :

'l'odd, S. S.-2.

Collins, J no.

Caymus Lodge, No. 93.
Yount....llle1 Napa County,

Stated Meetings, laat Saturday in each month.

North Star Lodge, No. 91.
Hoopervllle, Sbktyou County.

St,atea Meetings, 1econd Saturday in each month.
OFFIC.ERS1

J.C. Logan, Swret,ary,
A. P. McCarten, Sen. Deacon,
Joshua Randall, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. Gruther, Tyler.

A. M. C. Smith, Wor. MaBter,
1''. E. Ensign, Sen. Warden,
B. R. Turnbow, Jun. Warden,
L. B. Gregory, 'PreatUre?",

lllASTB.k MASONS:

Adams, A.W . .
Baker, M.. M.
Barker, Jos. ..
Beam, Adam
Brewster, Chas;

Cutler, Amos
Dowd, David,
Hee.rd, Geo. W.
Judah, H. M.
Keowo.n, B. W.

Kitts, D. B.
Logan, J . J.
Mason, B. S.
Rigg, E.G.
Sho.w, D. H.

•

Sboers, Wm.
Stone, S. E.
Thornbury, C. N.
Vanl:{or.!!i Wm.
Wright, wm.-28.

Edward Evey, Wor. MaBter,
Geo. O. Yount, Seri. Warden ,
Wm. Baldridge, Jun. Warden.
P. R. Hazelton, 1'rta1Urer,

OFFICERS:

D. M. Johnson, SfJCT'etary,
E. L. Levey, Sen. Deacon,
- - - - - , Jun. Dea.con,
- - - - - , 1'yler.
l'a•t Mader.

S. Rosenbaum.
~IA5TER MASONS:

Deering, J, W.
Dimick, C. A.

Evey, Jo~.
GrigRby, A. F.

Still, H.

H1ugrave, W.M.
Meckenberg, Jo8.

Wright, J. M.-1'.

FY.LLOW CRAFTS:

Taylor, W. E.-2.
EXPELLED.

May, J. J.,....J.

204

JOURNAL OF

5857.]

PROC,.~EDINGS • .

.20,5

ORAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Mount Hermon Lodge, No. 94.

Howard Lodge, No. 96.

Ellsabethtown, Plumas County.

Yreka, Siskiyou CoWlty.

Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each month.

OFFICERS a

Wm. M. Milburn, Wor. Ma8ter,
E. A. Hall, Sen. Warden,
David Titherington, Jun. Warden,
E. P. Grubbs, Treamrer,

OFFICERS1

Isaac M. Walters, &cretarv,
Benj. Coss, Sen. Deawn,
Jno. G. Appel, Jun. Deacon,
Jno. Howard, Tyler.

Edgar W. Potter, Wor. M~ter,
Jonas W. Brown, Sen. Warden,
H. Brooks, Jun. Warden,
A. H. Brown, 'l'reaaurer.

Pn.ot Mll8ters 1

J no. Howard,

Past lllaater 1

E. P. Grubbs,

W. S. R. Taylor.

A. S. Paul.

MASTER MASON8:

Boyd, A.
Green, J. H.
Harrison, W. H.
Hart, Richard

Kaulback, C. F.
Mather, S. H.
Moore, G. M.

Beartch, C.
Chamberlin, P.

Elliott, H. B.
Hogan, E.T.

MASTER MASONS :

McDonald, A. M.
Norris, •r. A. B.
Perry, Richard

Peters, N. J.
Petty, Wm.
Robinson, F. D.-22.

l'ELLOW CRAFTS:

McKinley, O. P.

Ritchie, J. D.-6.

Autenueth, L.
Beekman, C. C.
Bisbee, Wm.
Brooks, S. S.
Burns, A. V.
Carrick, E.

Larrison, J. H.
Orr, H.

Dearing, Thoe.
Emery, M. P.
Fox, W. J.
Furber, G. C.
Hill, Jas. A.
Lewis, C. W.

Long, Jno.
North, Samuel
Norton, W. T.
Paul, W. J.
Reid, Jno.

Phelps, J.
Stark, C. T.

Taylor, Hiram
Winans, Jno.-9.

Riker, H. H.
Scott, X. E.
Slade, W. D.
Smith, J.P.
Waterhouse; G.B.-30.

l'ELLOW CRAl"1'8:

Durand, Geo.

ENTERED APPREN1'1CES:

Choate, C.
Coburn, Benj.
Dickson, S. J.

JPs. W. Barry, Su:retary,
Wm. Conery, Sen. Deacon,
J. A. Lytle, Jun. Dl!JIUX)n,
U. B. Kitts, (of North Stal" Lodge) 1)/l>!r.

Searcy, Jas.-2.
}JN'rERED APPREN1'1CES:

Shepperd, J. B.

Steit~, G. W.-3.

Snelling, B. B.

WI1'HDRA WN:

Gloyd, D. J.

Harper, B. M.

Taylor, P.-S.

Jefferson Lodge, No. 97.

SUSPENDED :

Geagham, Thoma.s-1.

Rabbit Creek, Sierra County.

DIED:

Stated Meetinga, Saturday of or next ·preceding .Full Moon.

Matthews, J. K.-1.

OFFICERS1

I

E. Lane, Wor. Maater,
N. S. Hill, Sen. Warden,
R. C. Wilson, Jun. Warden,
J. R. Porter, Treasurer,
A. H. Crew, Secretary,

Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95.

J. P. Fuller, Seti. Deacon,
B. Loeb, Jun. DeacOfl,
.J. B. Price, Marahal,
W. Sim,
l St !h
,J. H. Hudson, f ewar '
W. Y. Head, 'l'yler.
Paot lllaoter 1

Sutter Creek, Amador County.

E. Lane.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

0. P. Southwell, Wor. Master,
Harrison Wood, St11. Warden,
W. T. Wildman, Jun. Warden,
F. Tibbita, Treaaurer,

J as. Tibbits, Stcretar'll,
N. A. Green, Sen. Deacon,
P. Cook, Jun. Deacon,
R. Baker, Tyler.
MASTER MASONS:

Burke, T. J.
Crandall, D.
Davis, J.
Elkins, J.

Fidler, D.
Gliddon, C. R.
Hayward, C. R.
Kussart, P.

Loring, W. A.
Manon, S.
Morrow, S. S.
Murry, Jas.

Peckard, J.
Pendleton, B. F.
Porter, W. S.
Rose, A. H.-24.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :
Com~ck, Asa

Keys, J.

Kimball, J. A.-3.

MA8'fER MASONS:

Abshae, E.
Baker, T.
Barnhart, J. A.
Bracy, W.
Brown, H.
Brown, J.
Carrington, .r. B.
Conley, J.

Cook, M.
Hannon, M. W.
Harris, J. J.
Hayden, J. S.
Howard, F.
Johnson, A. C.
Kitts, J.
Larrison, S.

Lester, E.
Mamlock, S.
Moss, J.
Myers, W. F.
Payne, N.J.
Pinch, J.
Riggins, G. W.

F~JI.J,OW

ORAl'T8:

Arnold, C.

Burris, S.-2.
ENTERED

Francis, W.
Gardner, W.

Smith, A.N.
Smith, F. W.
Vangundy, J.
White, T.
Wilks, J.
Winfrey, J. B.
Zimmerman, P.-41.

John~on, J. A.

.\PPRENTICI~S:

McMann, J. F.

Wood, T. M.--i.

WITIIDRA WN :

Cross, J. D.

Gray, C.
SUSPENDED:

O'Brien, J.-1.

Rand, ·R. G.-3.

206

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

5857.j

f.01

GRAND to:DGE OF OALtroitNiA.

Quartzburg Lodge, No. 98.

Campo Seco Lodge, No. 100.

Q.uart,zburg 1 lllarlpoaa County.

Campo 8eco, Calaveraa County.

Sumd Meetinga, &turday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, fir11t Monday in each month.

OFFIC:ERSs

N. A. Bailey, Sen. Dearot1,
J. G. Thornton, Jun. Deacon,
B. F. Ross,
l SUw rh
W. H. Tongue, f
ar '
G. H. Barnes, jjikr.

Wm. H. Tichenal, Wor. M~ter,
D. C. MoCloeky, Sen. Warden,
Jas. Doegg, Jun. Warden,
D. M. Pool, Treamrer,
P. B. Smallwood, Stcrtlary,

J.M. Havens, Wor. M~ter,
Joo. M. Keith, Sen. Warden,
L. M. Drake, Jun. Wardim,
A. L. Wangenheim, Trw~rer,

J. M. Havens.

D. C. King.

~IASUl R

lU.STER MASON8:

Jones. J. Y.
,
Kirkpatrick D. S.
Landrum, A. J.
McNeill, A.

Elias, J.
Gilmore , G. B.
Goss, W. G.
Jacbon, W.W.

Wm. A. Atlee, Secrtlat'f,
F. W. Gude, Sen. Ikactm,
F. M. Shoemaker, Jun. Dtacon,
C. G. Tompkins, 'l'ykr.
Pa•t Ma&ter •

Paat llla&ter •

Barfield, W. J.
Block, D. G.
Carr, S. W.
Curtis, G. W.

ORJClER8.

Snow, Chas.
Wood, J. H.
Wood, w.'.P.-as.

Adler, A.
B'rown, E. M.
Combs, L. S.
Drake, A. T.
Einstein, Jt1cob

Einstein , Morris
Fitzsimmons, Jno.
Howard, Jas.
Kettleman, David

MASONS :

Miller, JameH
Monroe, J.C.
Nathan, Daniel
Palmer, J. W. D.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Fll:LJ.O'W CRA~'T:

Bloodworth, Chas.-1.

Smithland, Louls-1.
WJTJIDRAWN:

WITIIDRA WN :

Weir, J. B.-2.

l:lrittnu, J. W.

Taylor, S.-3.

Landrum. F. S.

Buckhalter, J.

P11.11l, R.H.
Wangenheimi_Sol
Wheeler, R. '"
Wooley, Wm.-20.

SUSPENDED :

Innctt, Jno. H.-1.
DIED:

Clay Lodge, No. 101.

. Dickenson, O. M.-l.

Dutch Flat, Placer County.

Stateil Meeting1, second Saturday in eacl1 tnonth.

La Grange Lodge, No. 99.
LaGrange, Stanblaua County.

Stated Meetings, second &tui·day in each mo11th.
\

Samuel N. Hoyt, Wor. Mai!ter,
Jno. B. Hockett, Sim. Warden.
P. B. Nagle, Jun. Warden,
C. M. Wells, Treamrer,
Robert McGarvey, &cretary,

OFFJCER8s

Jno. Il. Montgomery, IVor. Mal!ler,
B. Hagan, Sen. Warden,
~1. S. Gardner, Jun. Wardt'71,
E. L. Bradley, Tr~a8ttrl'1',

OFFICERS:

Jno. Uyers, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. B. Thurman,. Jun. DeacOfl,
8. Cleaveland, Jtlarahal,
8. J · Simon?, l Stewa-rdi
Arnt. Harr18, f
'
W. W. Bowen, fyler.
·

Pout MaMter• 1

E. Hagan,

Jno. H. Montgon1ery.
MAS'rlm MASONS:

l:lli:ker, J. J<'.
Beal. G. P.
Curran, V.

Francis, R.
Friedman, A.
Gailey, J. W.

A. Elkins, /

~!Al:l'l'ER

Calbreath, J.C.
Currel, Spencer ·
Damien,-Delany, Patrick
Dickenson, J.P.
Dubois, Samuel

Hawthorn, Samuel
Johnson, N. B.
Kennon, Tho~.
Kirk, W. D.
Laird, Jno.
LaTourette, A.

Y.NTKRF.O APPRltNTJCJlS:

Thibault, Peter
'l'!Jomas, G. W.
Toney, i:leth
Ward, J. N.
Woodworth, B.-37.

Peacock, Wm.

Pornier, A.

8omel's, Jno.-4.

Ewing, Simon
Frye, M. L.
Gardiner, J. H.

Gianini, Tho~.
King,G. W.
Lobbe, Jnliu~

Stal'r, W. C.
Young. Wm.-11

WITHDRAWN :

Becker. Frlld.

Gibbs. W. D.

Manzanita Lodge, No. 102.
8ial1!<l Meetings, &t11rday nf or next preceding Full Mo011.
OFl<'ICERSs

ENUJRED APPRENTICE8:

Branch, G. W.
Croson, E.T.
Duke, Burrel

Thomas, J. M.-2.

Seftene, Ch11&

Snn Juan, Ne,•ada County,

Fl:J,LOW CRU'TS:

Allen, 0. H.

Lilly, J.C.
Scott. Wm.
ShubCrt, J. A.-20.

Weber, M. N.-1.

W. M. Stalford.

MASONS :

Letroadec, - :O.lurphy, T. G.
Payne, Thos.
Roynol, T.
Scaniker, S. P.
Shearer, Arthur

Heyman, S.
Jachleus, B.
Kopp, C. M.

F.ELLOW-CRU'T :

Pa&t Mastera•

J. J. Willi~.

Isaac Gill, Secretary,
J. A. Beal, Sen. D-.,
J.M. Fritch, Jun. Dw;iwn,
D. F. Hathaway, fy~.

~elson, Uria,h.-3.

Chas.E. Olney, Sen.~,
Wm. H. Sear~, Wor. Master,
Jos. M. Dic~s-on, J'IJ.1l. :l:)f.le<m,
John H. Effinger. Sm. lfordim,
W. P. L. Wm~a'in, ~hal.
L, C. McKeeby, Jim. Warden,
J a~. H. Moore, Treasurer,
Jno. R. Archlbald, l •
d
Jos.
Kinville.
5 Gr 1'
.A. Eastin, SecrdaTf,
Peter Zacharias, fykr.
·

~OS

6851.]

.fubitN.At or PROC!:EDING"1.

Paat Master a

!llABTER MA.SONS:

Coker, Ja.s.
CollinsJ· tlenry,
Cook, Joe.
Curtis, Samuel
Evans, Alvaro
Evans, Orlando

Adsit, L.B.
Avery, B. P.
Baldwin, Smith
BaB8, Lawrence,
Black, Houston
Caswell, S. B.

Freeman, Thos.
Hatfield, Wm.
Hilliard, Samuel
Macklin, Henry
Mobley, F. F .

Readshaw, W. J.
Seely, Jno. A.
Spurling, A.
Stalford, Joshua
1Yinham, M;. A.--:S:S,

ENTERED APPHENTICJ; :

Sil11.s Bennett.
MASTER MA.SONS :

llBrton, Benj.
Beardslee, N.
Bettis, Elijah
Coopwood, B.
Hunter, E.

Johnson, J. G.
Kyle, P.
Norbor, Jno
Norris, B.

Fisher, Geo. P .-1.

Read, J no.
Robinson G. N. G.
Rubottom, E. H.
Rubottom, W. W.

Swigart, T. C.
Tyler, E. B.
Weir, Jno.
Y orce, .T. R.~25.

WITHDRAWN :

WITHDRAWN:

Senroh, A. 'l'.-2.

Pollard, Jeremiah

209

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA..

Dunlap, R. R.

Hayward, A. Il.

Vise, N.-3.

DIED:

DIED:

Little, W. H.-1.

McCoy, A. C.-1.

Oroville Lodge, No. 103.
·Oroville, Butte County.

Siskiyou Lodge, No. 105.

Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each mo11th.

Henley, Siskiyou County.

Oli'FICERS1

J. J. Klein, Wor. Maater,
D. Jewett, Sen. Warden,
J.C. Klimper, Jun. Warden,
Phil. Waterman, Prta1urer,

Robert Williams, &ci·dary,
Geo. W. Elliott, Sen. DUUXYll,
Daniel JohnHon, Jun. DtiJJXJn,
D. G. O'Donnell, Tyl~.
. Past Master a

David A. Brown.

Stated Meetings, .first Mo11day in each mo11tlt.
OFFICERS a

Daniel Grosse, Wor. Matter,
L . M. Hazlitt, Sen. Ward.m,
J no. S. Dudley, Jun. Warden,
Jacob Ditzler, PreMttrer.

A. J. Rosin\Jum, Secretary,
S. S. Williams, Sen. Dtacon,
J. H. Hazlitt, Jun. Deac<m.
P. Highlander, Tyler.
Paat ltlaate1· 1

MASl'ER MASON8:

Farley, M. H.
Faulkner, G. W.
Faulkner, Thos.
Fee, L. W.
Green, J.E.
Gunson, Robert
Hoskins, Avery

Bayw1·ight, Geo.
Beker, J.C.
Biesett, T.
C611ins, P.
Edmonds, Wm.
Elliott, J. T.
Emmerson, J.E.
FairebUd, 0. L .

Jones, Jno.
Keating, J. D.
Mann, A. F.
Martin, S.
Miller, J. W.
Mitchell, J .
Peck, W. D:

Pilltt, J. A.
Reis, A. D.
Sil vis, J. B.
Sims, J. S.
Smith. D. W.
Tooker, Lansing
Torr, Geo:.:._as. ""'

Blanchard, Wm.
HaRerir.k, A.

Lee, Wm.
Rhodes, 0. l'tf.
Ottenheimer, Wm. Richardson, Jno.
l 'ELLOW CRAFT:

Herron, .A. M.-1.

Govenor, D. W.-2.

Aikcmari, WilliH

Bostwick, E.

Hornbrook, S.

Bowman, D.

Stites, Amo~.

WITIIDRA.WN :

ENTERlm Al'PRENTlCES:

Davis, R.
Hoffman, P.

Ross, Ephraim
Runkle, J. l'tf.-16.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

HlLLOW·Cll.AFTS:

De Cosmos, A. D.

Daniel Grosse.
MASTE:U. MASONS:

Jones, J. Y.

Rutherford, J. B.- 1.

Rothrock, Geo.-5.

WJTllDllAWN:

Mallory; G. H.

Rosenthal, Jos.

Sadores, H. T.-3.

DIED:

Byers, Jos.-1.

Arcata Lodge, No. 106.
Lexington Lodge, No. 104.

Union, Hlllllboldt County.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each month.

Lexington, Loa Angele• County.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

Ww.

B. F. co·opwdoll,.
Ma.tu,
Frank Gentry, Sen. 'Wdrden,

W. W. Maxey, Jun. Warden,
Thos. A. Moyes, Preamrer.

OFFICERS a

J. H. Maddox, Secre.tary,
Silas Bennett, Sen. Deawn,
R. C. Fryer, Jun. Deacon,
M. A. Tyler, Tyler:

OFFICERS a

B. Henry Wyman, Wor. Master,
Isaac Manheim, Sm. Warden,
John C. Bull, Jun. Warden,
Augustus Jacoby, 'l'rtaaurer,

Herman Fleishman, Secrt:l.a"JI,
Isaac Culberg, Sen. Deacon.
David Marsten, Jun. Deacon,
Reuben Duncan, Tyler.
Paat lUa&tel' t

J. R. Molony.

27

210

[.May,

JOURNAL O'.F 1'ROCEE1JlNOB.

5857.]

ORAND LODGE

MASTER MASONS:

Hulme, Geo.
Julie.rd, C. L.
Lake, H. W.
Ledingsten, H. Y.
Legg, F. W.
Love, G. J.
Maxwell, J.M.

Beckwith, L. C.
Block, A, J.
Cushing, Horatio
Daniels, H. S.
Deming, Byron
Farrel, J. D.
Flei!hman, J .

ENTEP.ED

Stern, Henry
McLean, H . H.
Stanislawsky, G.
Nordheimer, B.
Strawbridge,
J.
Nixon, Isaac
VanDyck, W.
Parker, R. F.
Roskill, Ferdinand Wiley, R.
Wilson, J. G.-S6.
Siely, S. P.
Sinsheimer, S.

Fisher. J a.~.
Girouard, L.

H icks, G. A.
Nicholson, Jas.

DuVal, S. A.
Elzy, E. J.

Learuiu, ChriR.

APPl~ENTICES :

Prindle, C. W.

White, M.-6.

WJ 'l'HDJ\AWN :
O~borne, J. D.

•White, J. B. (E. A.)

-5.
DU:ll :

Sewnrds, llrichael-1.

FELLOW-ORAFl'S:

Wiley, Austin-s.

Newkirk, J. J.

Murdock, H. H .

211

or OALIFORNIA.

Dibble Lodge, No. 109.
Mt. Jefferson Lodge, No. 107.

Alpha, Nevad1> Vonnty.

Garrote, Tuolumne County.

Stated Meeting.,, Monday of or next preceding J.i1ull Moon.

Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each montl•.
OFFICERS•

Jno. Macfarlane, Secretary,
Thoe. H. Burns, Sen. Deacon,
Elias, J. Peterson, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. C. Stewart, 'l'yler.

Edward 'l'. Harper, Wor. Ma1Jter,
Jno. Il. Green, Sen. Warden,
Harrison Low, Jun. Warden,
J as. Tannahill, Treaaurer,

~IASTF.R MASONS:

Arnhold, Wm.
Blye, J. N.
Crocket, Amos

Harris, Isaac
Plaster, J. H .
Hubbard, Winslow Shepherd, Jas. .
Jordan, W. R.

Stumper, IBaaC
Wheeler , Wm.-18.

Dext.cr, A. G.-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

---~, 'J'freamrer,

MASTlm l\IASONB.
Bailey,~'. E.

Hotl'man, H.J.
Lansing, J. V. A.
Merryman, Il. S.

Ilimms, J. P.
Bridge~. ,JaB.

Doolit.tle, A. .J.

OFPICERS1

Gilbert Lanphier, Wor• .lffaster,
.T. W. Sinclair, Sen. Dcaeo11,
M. M. Nichols, Sen. Warden,
Wm. Huff, Jun. Deac<m.
Ephraim Durham, Jun. Warde11,
ChRS. Travelli, .lffarahal.
W. H. St. J ohn, Pteasurer,
S. i\I. Boblet, l Steward•.
Jno. Reid, Secretar,11,
.And. N. Elzy, f
B. L. Coldren, (of Sau Joaqum Lodge) 1\jler.
MASTJ<:R MASONg:

Breckenridge, J . L.-1.

McCloud, F.-5.

Pajaro Lodge, No. 110.

John•on's Bar, Slllklyon County.

FJlLJ,OW CltAF'l':

.Jennings, J. J.

Wat&onvllle, Sant.a Cruz County.

°stated Meetings, Thursday of or next prer,eding lull :Jfoo11:

J ost, Chu.s.
Kilgannon, M. F.
Miller, JoA.
:\IcLaughlin, J.B.
Pool, W. P.
Rice, I . K.

Steinmets, Chas.
Sturtlvant,J. H .-18

K'IT•:mrn Al'l'RENTICES :

Owen Lodge, No. 108.

Feaglcs, H. L.
Freeman, 0. D.
Haas, Augustin
Hall, Solon
llowurd, .T. 'l'.
Hughe~, J . L.

l\loore, A.
Plain, Benj.
Prescott, L. R.

Woodruff, II. R.-2.

Dorrington, Albert
Dorrington, D. A.
Bosley, J . N.

Underwood, J . R.-1.

Armstrong, J. ll.
llerggrew, Aug.
Buttks, J. F.
Uormack, Ja~.
Ureegan, J us.
Uouglass, J n8.

J. C. Ogden, &crtlary,
Hiru.m McKee, Sen. D=n,
Isaac Rich, J un. Deacon,
Daniel Corlette, Tyler.

FELLOW.C!lAFl'i:

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Campbell, M. M.

OFFICERSt

James B. l'rewett, Wor. 1Jla1Jter,
IV. W. Wixon, Sen. Warden,
A. Fr11sier, Jun. Warden, ·

Ilobinson, J ..M.
Sawyer, J. C.
Simon, Siep;muud
Soape, T. M.
.
Stevensoi,, J. W.
'faggcrt. G. I.-34.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS&

N. A. Hicks, Wor. Master,
Thos. M. Davis, Sen. Ward<l!I.
L. A. See, Jun. Warden,

.r. 11. Blackburn, Treasurer,
.T. l.l. TyuA, S=w.r11,

W. W. Joyce, Sen. DUUXYP,
J. W. Kitchen, Jun. DMC01t,
J as. Cathers, Marahat,
C. G. Menasco, l St
ti&
M. L. ·Menasco, f ewar '
M. Gagnon, fyler.
.IJASl'lm MASONS:

Barry, Edward
Ford, Chas.
Godchaux. L. D.

John~on, J. G.
Norri~. J . A.

Sanborn, L.
Sinclair, P.

White, J. F.
Whitlock, H. G.-20.

~'ELLOW ORAFT:

Pl\l'rott, Beverly-I.
1;;~·r1rn1m APPRENTIOE :

Carter, Chas.-1.
• Di11mi!twd, with cerllftea.t e to rer.eivP the remR.inlng DPgrees elsewherr.

212

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

585i.]

llAST}JR MASONS:

Chico Lodge, No. 111.

Jucks, J . S.
Johnson, R. S.
King, Elijah

Cobb, J . R.
l<'inney, W. M.
Goldstein, S.

Chico, Butte County.

&ted Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS I

MAST~:It

Steeley, J. W.
Strohn, D. W.-18.

APl'lUJ!l'TICI'.:

Heath, G. W.-1.

Pence, hf.-13.

St. Me.rk's Lodge, No. 115.
.F'lddletow·n, El Do1'lldo County.

~'El.LOW ClUFTS:

Stated Mcetin!J11, Wednesday next preceding Full Moon.

Spark~, R. H.-2.

Middleton, W. 0 .

OFFICERS•

ENTERED APPll.ENTICES :

Longmoor, A. Q.-3.

Everts, Wm. J.

Burman, Louis

Knox, Wm.
McKean, F .

MASONS:

Neal, Sam'!.

Maine, A.

Froman, S.
Jennings, W. U.

~: NT~:RED

O. Wheeler, Secretary,
Alex. Burnes, Sen. Deacon,
A. !If. Sadorus, Jun. Deacun,
W. E. Polk, 'Jlyler.

A. Wood, Wor . .MQ.8/er,
J.B. Smith, Sen. Warden,
J. Bidwell, Jun. Warden,
E. B. Kimon, PretUurer,

213

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

F. L. Sullivan, Wor. Mo~l.er.
A. B. Rowlanil, Sen. Warden,
T. M. Horrell, Jun. Warden.
A":neas Quinu, Preamrer,

/

Thos. Homu, Secraary,
F. G. Hoard, Sen. Deacon,
C.1''. M. W. Goldkofer, Jun. Deacon.
H. A. Kuchenthal, 'I'ijler.
MASTER lllA::!ONS:

Summit Lodge, No. 112.

Fitzgerald, H. W.

Knight's Ferry, San Joaquin County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Pull Moon.

Horrell, A. B.

Hunstablc, J. A.

Wilson, Monl'Oe-12.

n:i,ww CRAFTS :

Blum, I.

Wooil, A; l'.-2.

OFFICERS1

T. W. Lane, &craanJ,
A. McSarlcc, Sen. D-.,
J, S. Snodgrnss, Jun. Deacon,
Joseph Dillon, 'fliJler.

M. C. Edwards. Wor. Mrut.er,
8. Bishop, Sen: Warden,
A. J. Lane, Jun. Warden.
H. Palmer, Prea.mrer,

Windsor Lodge, No. 116.

~l.\STlm AUSONS :

Bently, J . D.
Dent, G. W.
Harmon, Henry

Honigsberger, J.
Skorm, J. H.

Stewart, W. E.
Tyson, Jno.

Wind•or, Sierra County.

Head, W. H.
Whet~tone, J. W.

-17.

Eden Lodge, No. 113.

Stated Meetinga,
OFl<'ICERS 1

Henry l'. Beuton, Wor. Maater,
Wm. P. Young, Sen. Warden,
R.R. Johnson, Jun. Warden,
Richard Galway, 1'reaBUrcr,

)!A8'1.'Ell ~!ABONB:

San Leandro, Alameda Couoty.

DillCumbus, Franci~

Stated Meetings, Saturday next succeedin!J Pull nioo1i.
OFFICERl!l1

Wm. C. Pease, Secreta1·y,
Jos. H. Taylor, Sen. Deaoon,
Jno. W. Carrick, Jim. Deacon,
J. L. Shlnan, 'Jlyler.

P. E. Edmondson, Wor. Maater,
Louis Lengfeld, &n. Warden,
Joseph Demont, Jun. Warden,
G. D. Tool, PretUurer,

Hamilton, Noble
Hamilton, W. G.

NorcroSB, L. M.
Vesey, H. M.-16.

FELLOW.CRAFTS:

Alcxa.udcr, Jacoh
.Armer, MorriR

SRmpson, J. V.

Davis, J. D.

Sperry, J, A.-6.

Doh!. J ohu

Folsom Lodge, U. D.
Fohom, l'la.Cramento County.

,

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Ch11rch, A. M.-2.

Boone, G. W.

Mt. Zion Lodge, No. 114.

Leverett Dradley, lVo-r. JftZuer,
Calvin Hall, Sen. Warden,
.fohn Waters, Jun. Warden,
II. F. Kellum, Prea-!urer.

OFFICERSc

G. W. McKenp., Secretary, .
C. C. McLenn, Sen. D=n,
E. Lawrence, Jun. Deacon,
Alex. Mccrary, 'Jlyl4r,

W. D. Hees, Secrdary,
A. 0. Carr, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. Dresser, Jun. Deacon,
J. W. Gaylor<l, Tyler.
Paat Jllaster 1

Grizzly Flat, El Dorado County.

J.. everett Bradley.

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moo11.
Wm. McKean, Wor• .Maater,
N. C. Boswell, Sen, Warden,
Jas. H. Watson, Jun. Warden,
L ewis Abrahams, Preamrer,

Morin, L. F.-10.

ENTERim APPHENTim:s:

MASTElt MASONS:

J.lroder, A.H.
Dixon, E. F.
Chauncey, Edmund DuBois, Jas.

P11ul Serand, S(JcnJary,
·
Heiman Cohn, Sen. Deacon,
Wm. MoClure, Jun. Deacon,
H:L. Brown, 'Jlyle1'.

:'l!ASTEn MASONS:

Barket', J.

Cole, G. 111.

Meredith, J. S.

Palmer, C. T. H .- 12.

YELLOW.CRAFTS:

Griggs, Geo.

Kullman, L.

Timson, Wm.

ENTERKD APPRENTICE:

Tait, A. J .-1.

Waddelon , JI.B.-4.

LODGES.

p L A

c F.
0 F

L 0

TOWN.

I

COUNTY.

I

1!\

!

l

E

~

~

ORDERED.

CHARTER WAS . ;

~

~

i
1 l

~

~

~

F~ ~ ~ ~
~i g_ ~ E

4TH, A. L.

i

~
~

5857.

11

~

i;;

~
~

1~ f 1 1 ! t ~

£

~ - ~w- oo~~~~-"'J

I; - ; S

~ I

:

If

D.\TE WHEN

- - - - -, --- - --- ·e:

c A T I 0 N •

~

RETURNS FOR THE lllASONIC YEAR ENDING i\1,\RCII

r \San Francisco,. . . ..... JSan Francisco.. ~IApril

~

z

SUMMARY OF THEIR

IC

I

~

~

I

iEl

3a San Francioco,. . ..... . :s an Franci£co, . .. :May
31 \Mokclnmne Hill,..... . !Calanras, ....... 1 "

I

l

!

!
!

I l

147

I

!

·I

32 Gold Hill, .. . . : ... . .. !Placer,. . . . . . . . . . "
:13 Murphy's Camp....... ,Calaveras,. . . . • . . 1 "
3-t jSauta Clara, .. . . . . . .. Sant.n Clara, .... .
3.3 San Diego, .... .. ... .. 1San Diego,...... .
36 !Bidwell's Ilar, ... . . .. 1Buttc,..... .. .. .. ,May
~~ jYr cka•... . ... . ... .. . !Siskiyou,.... .. ..
.>I
"
38 !Santa C::rnz, . . . ... ... . Santa Crnz,. ... ..
"
3.> 1ll'll.l.. . .. . . . . . . . . . , 39 1 :\Iary~nll<', . ..... .. ... Yuba,..... . . . .. .
3G,l s.~cnA~IEXTO. ...... 40 Saer~mrnto, .......... Sacrnmcnto, . ... .
37 M.1.Rn.sr:z,.... .. . . 41 Martinez, .. .. . .. ... . . Contra Coi;ta, ... .
38 , Los AXGEl.E!-<,.. . . . 42 Los Angeles.......... Los Angele~, . .. .
39 HfR..\)I.. • • • . . . . . . . 43 1El Dorado,. . . . . . . . . . El Dorado,.•.... .
1
-rn,~Io~~T
.llfom.rn , ...
4~ !-San Francisco,........ 11San Francisco, .. .
11 C1tE~CEXT. . . . . . . . . 4a Crescent City, ... .... · !Del Norte,...... .
421TE~.\~ •. . .. ·,: . : . . . . 46 S~n ~nan, .. : ..... . . . 1Monter cy, .... . . .
/lhcb1gan !Jity,. . . ... . iPlac.er ... : . . . . .
431M1c uH,.\:S C.n .... ·
44 fa;B.\XOX.. . . .... . . 49 San Francisco,.. ... . . .. San Franc:sco,. . .
"
45 FORB!>STOWll... .... 50 lForbC'sto'\\"n,..... . . . . Butte,. ...... . . . .
"
4ti lLUli'OISTOws..... · 51 Tilinoi~town •.. .. ... . . ,Placer, . . . . . . . . . . "
47 Rouou AND RE.l.llT, 52 Rough and Ready, .... Nevada,. . ....... "
4-8 ST. JAl!ES,. . . . . . . . 54 Jamestown, .... : .. ... ,Tuolumne, .. .. .. May
49 Sursi;x,. .... .. .. .. 55 ;Suisun, .•... . ... . .. . . Solano,..... .. . . "
50 VOLCA:SO, •. . . . . . . • 56 Volcano,. . . . . .. . . ... . Amador, ........
"
51 S.1.~'TA RoHA, . .. . .. 57 ' Santa Rosa,. ... . . .. .. Sonoma,.. .... .. . I "
52 UNION,. . . • . . . . • . . 58 Sacramento,. .. . . . .... Sacramento, ... . .
53 GnA>Er.Hu;m;, •... 59 Camptonvilll', ... .. .. ·!Yuba,.......... . , "
54 PLmrAs, . . • . • • • . • . 60 Quincy...•.... . ., ... . •Plumas,... . . .. .. ''
55 LIYE OAK, . . . . . . . 61 1oakland,. .•...... . .. . 1Alameda,........
"
5 (i GEO. W ASUIXGTOX, 62 1Chinese! ..•.•....... . jTnolnmne,.......
"
57 low A H1Lr., . • • . . . 63 Iowa Hill, ....•..... . Placer,........ .
1
581NATOMA,,. ... . .. .. 64 Mormon Island, •.•.... Sacramento, .... .
.r;9IA:1upou,.. ... . .... 65 Jackson, . ...... .. .. .. !Amador, . . ...... 1 "
601FOREST,........ . . . 66 Foreet City, .....•... . ISierra, .. . ...... . .
61 AfTXl\"J:SOTA, • •••• , • 67 ;Minnesota, ... . .. . . .. . :sierra,.. ..... . . . .

2fi'JGOl.J)El\ Gni:. . . . .
'L7,l\foKELl:M.SE, .. . . . .
18 GoLD llrr.1... . . . . . .
29 ,0 rmu . . .. : ..... ..
:io l· s~=-.-r.\ CurtA.. . . . .
31 SAS DIEGO. . . . . . . .
32 Il1;-rr;: ..... .' . . . . . . .
· .·.
"~3 s·
. r. J OII:>
' >i . . . . . . .
:l~ S: \HA Cm::z, . . . . . .

·I

ll'CALlllOlt:\'IA, .. .. . .

~;

"

ti

11
7.

"
"

ti

2

5

.. 13

"
"
"
"
"

..

"

2,

"

.I

6

8
10

..
..
"
1:1

3,

"

"

I
3
5

8

8

11

102
37
2 31
2 42

2

42

28

28

36
33
2 ...
4 3
.3 1

3

34

2

3

4

6

2,
31 _..

91

161
41

41

91

G

6

21 2, 2 . . I 1

1 4
I.. .

2 . ..
37
2 2 36
3 4 48
7 8 3'... 1
8 9 1 5 .. . ..
36
.
1 .. . •..
2
2
16
6 131
1"4112 20 . 22 5 ..
4 6 1 9 ... I
27
1 . ..
6 .. .
4 4 5 1 1
1 7 .. .
32
9 9 8 8.
1 1 46
81 8 12 IO
1 1 70
21 2 1 30
6 . . . 7 .. .
4 6 1 4 .. .
29
3 1 40
4 5 2 14 2, ..
3 2 2 7 4 ..
1 ti 3 35
1
9 2 1 .. .
1 2 3 29
9 10
2
8 .. .
8 1 48
2 4 2 45
9
7
12
3
.
-~
8 7 l
9 . . . 1 ..
3 1 30
1 3 42
6 8
6 7 . .. .... 1... , 4
s 45
9
6
8
2
6 . . ... .. , . ..
2
1 21
2 1 ~1 6 .......
1 . ..
6 1 24
4 6 1 2 . .. ... .
9 5 36
5 2 2 4 . . . . . 1, . . .
8 12 . . . 7 1 . . . . . . . 1 !I ·4 26
77
7 4 . . 1 .. . .. . 3 2 25
19 1!1112 4 . . . . . . . ... / s 5 7 57
10 12 3 11 6 1 I 1. . . 3 5 . •.
35

41

1 24 6 .
5 14 . .. . ... .
4 6 1 ..
7 5 ... . .

·1 ·.

21 ..

3

3

~I · · i

~ ... .. . .. '- .. j
- .. . 1.. 1 I : ...

3 3 1
3 17
1 3 .....

I

~ . ~I:: ·J:: ~ --~

II

;11 ;11..:: ..~. ... .~. ... .~. ! .. ~1

!1 ~ .. 2 " 2

2
3
2

I

·41

201 !I

41 4

3
3
4
12 13 14
5 6 8
6
3
I
1 1

2
2

ti

10
8
3,
12
"
5
7
4, "
9
3,
8
" 53
" 3
2, 1855 3
•i "
12
8

"
"
5,

"

" "

7
"
3, 185!

"

91

5 18531 24 2!

I

1
"\ · ··
3 ' 31 111 17 4
1
l!l , 1850'I
10\ 15 18 10 8 ..
. . .. .. .
6 6 3
~0
2
Shasta,
.
..
.......
..
.
.
1Shasta,...
.
•
.
.
.
.
"
"
"
27
26
26
12
6
2 WESTERN ST,1.R,... .
.. ..
I . . • 10 2 ~ 3
3
Sacramento,
..
.
......
·
jSacramento,....
.
"
"
"
6
6
G
14
11
3\ TE~~MA, • •....•. •.
1
. .. . ..
1 1 '6
"
"
"
5 1 .5 8 . . .
3 15
! IlEMCJA.,.. . • • • . . . 5 Benicia,. . •..... . . .. . Solano,. .... . ...
.. .. .. ... 5 4 j 4
7
ISan
Francisco,
........
,San
Francisco,
...
!Nov.
27.
..
i
7
3
10
5JSA....'1 FRL'\'CISCO,. .. .
5 .. . . . . . . .. 5 3 f 3
8 Sonora, .. .. . . .... .... Tuolumne....... · 1 "
·• " 10 8 11 J 10 6 .... ... . .. 1 2
,7
6 JTuOLUMNE,. ••• . . ••
9
Marysnlle,
.......
....
Yuba,.....
.
.
.
.
.
.
"
"
··
\
7
8
6
5
3
1
'T IM..utYSVILLF., ••....
4 .. ..
3
IO
2 ~0
10
San
Jose,
...
..
.
......
,Santa
Clara,.....
"
"
"
,
7
5
5
I
6
8 S.rn JCiSE, ... .... . .
l ...
1
3 ...
;7
12 Napa, . .. . .. . ... .. . . . Napa, .. . ..... . .. 11ray 6, 18.il 12 9 10 81 8 ...
9 YouJST, .. .. . . .. ..
1 .. . 6 6 I 7
1
"
"
"
6 6 tl 16 9
,7
10 NEVADA, • ••• .• •••• 13 Nm·ada, .. .. .. . .. .. .. !Nevada, ... .. ... .
' ... 1 ..
1 2 ... 5
"
"
6 6 !
2 2 . . . .. .. ...
5
11 TEMPLE, •.... ••. . . 14 Sonoma, ..... . . .... . · 1Sonoma,.. .. . . ... 1 •·
1 2 ...
··
3 1 I II ~I I . . 1 3 2 6 3i 8
12 EuREKA, .. ....... . 16 Auburn, .._. ........ .. Placer, . .. : . .. ... 1!'fov. 7,
17
San
Frnncrnco,
.
...
.
..
San
Francisco,
...
May
5,
I
5
j
4
4J
3
4
13 PARFAITE UNION, ..
•·
"
"
16 17 14! 12 1
6
14 ?tfoUNTArN SHADE, • • 18 Downicvilk .. . ... .. ... '!Sierra,... .. . ... ..
19
Stockton,
...........
.
San
Joaquil),....
.
"
"
"
3
'
2
3
!
5
1
15 Sui JOAQUIN, •• •• . •
ll 6 1· 0
20
Sacramento,
..
.
.
..
.
.
.
.
Sacramento,.
.
...
"
"
''
10
9
3
16 WASnrNGTON, .....
1 ......... .
5
4 ... J
"
"
6 5 7 31 1
1'7 fuWAJTA....'1 1 • • • • • • • • 21 Honolulu,. ...... ..... Ha'l>aiian I shrnds. "
I 6 1, .. • • I
1 13 BJ 5
22
San
FranciEco,
........
San
Franciroo,..
·
1
"
20,
"
1
.
.
.
1
I
3
18 OccrnE~"TAJ,, ••••• •
UI 13 12 14· r 161.
I ..
1 5 95 7~ I
19 MADISOK,•••....•.• 23 Gr:i:-"8 Valley, ........ Ne•.ada,......... llfay 5, l
24
~Iar1posa,.
....
.......
.
Mari
porn....
.
.
.
.
.
•·
"
"
7
4
4
1
0
:!O MAta!'OSA, .•..... •
Dorado, . . . . . . "
"
"
14 11 11 81 2 Ij 32 \1 .••. • 1• J 22 44 154 . 24 . 2
l!l GEORGETOWll, . . . , 25 Georgetown, ..•.. ....
6, "
i l 1~ 9 5 1 I . . . . . . . 1 12 4 5
Z.2 ; DORADO, .• • •.•. 26 Placerrillc, ..... .. • . . El Dorado, . . . .. · 1 "
0
5, "
16 12 11 10
2 TRINITY, .... ... .. . 27 Weaverville, ••.. . ... . !Trinity, . . . . . .. . "
o.
"
"
"
1G 17 15 6
I
:t4 CoLUMllIA, ••••••. ; 28 Columbia, . . . . . . . . . . Tuolumne,.. . . . . .
s
"
" _ ...
5 I
:!5 Du.MO!'ID, ..•.• •.• . 29 Diamond Spriligs,. . .. . El Dorado, . . . . . . "

01''

l< AM}; S

WITll A

LIST OF LOD(}ES NOW IN EXISTENCE:

g:

~

t.;:)

Q>c

....

~

z·

~
Ill

~-

"'·
a.

0

M

!;)

ti·

0

t<

ti

z>

0

~

°'

..:......

~

00

~

,...,

~

0

z

i

0

;g

"Ii

0

z
>
t"

Ill

0
d

....

ti>-

~

-

TOWN.

LODGES.

·--

COUNTY.

[. 0 c AT I 0 N.

CHARTER WAS
ORDERED.

f'

~

.? p. p.

~

~

I

a E~ ..~ ~;;

I DATE WHEN I "'

~

!;'

&

~

~ ~

~

~

g: f' i

gi~ ~

"'~ ~ "' ~
; :
~ ~ 1

~

1

i

~
~

~

~
~
~

:i
"'
~

I

~

II:

~,..

i

""i

~

~

~

~

~

~

j1

!. .. . .. .. .. ... ... ...

·I

·I·.. .. . .. .. ... ...

51... .. ..

I....... /. . ...

·I

~

,.,,

Q

a

0

,.,

0
0
0
l'l

t:"

e

>
z

I;::!

._:_..

-i

.:1•
00

~-

~

,.....,

!"

c;i

z

&lt;:; ·
.....

0

'-cl
ti:1·
0

0
.._,

>·
t<

~-

0
de
ti:I

.....

t¢

.....
a:

NoTF..-The Grand Secretary i• very happy to announce that all the Lod~s In thi•Jnrisdiction ha-.-e this year completed their return• In time for publication.
'Those or Arcata, No.106, and the following Lodgp.s, were made to llay 1st, belog fur the period of their DispenDtions.

~

-1

~

I·.. ... .. .. ... ... ... ...
~
0"'
·I·: .......
.1
'---i--------,--- ==z
!003:789 749 460 571Ju3 11111 381156 485°252 4282
F

I

Ill

·l·..

·I·.1··1.. ..· . ..
J·····

···1 ....

~

"
"
6 5 3 3 2 .. . .. ..
1 3 4 3 33
"
"
1 3 5 4 1 1 .. .. .. . .. . 3 . ..
34
"
"
10 1 10 8 . . . 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2 23
"
"
51 4 2 9 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . I 3 31
"
"
5I 3 2 I 2 . .. .. .. . .. . .. 4 3 22
3,
"
11 1 11 10 . . . 3 . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2 I
25
2,
"
14; 15 18 2 11 .. . .. .. .. . 4 I 3 28
"
"
51 4 2 2 I . . . . . . .
I ... I
3 22
"
"
91 6 5 5 8
1 ... 7 I 38
4, "
ll j 7 7 I 1 2 .. ..
2 . .. 9 5 27
I,
"
6j 5 5 5 5 .. .. ·
1 6 ·•·
24
8, 1856 51 5 3 2 ... ..
I 4 2 19
"
"
2/ 1 ... 3 3 ... . . . . . . . 11 2 I 19
"
'' I 7 1 51 3 I 1I 2 .. . 11.... I ... !... j 2 2 22
3! 2 2 7 2 1.....
2'1 1 ...
42
9,
"
8 1 4 11 4 2 3 .. .. .. . .. .. . 4 3 21
8,
"
9! 7 5 2 3 . .. .. .. .. . I 51 11 26
"
''
I2j 9 7 6 . 7 . . . . . 1 . . . 2 6 41 41
"
"
21 2 . ..
2 2 . . . . . . . . . . 1 51 31 21
" " 21 19 17 8 1 4 . . . . . . . . • . 4 7 41 44
"
"
7 6 6 1 I 2 I . . . . . . . 3j I . . . 31
"
"
4 1 41 51 21 2 . . . . . . . . . · ...
31 2 19
"
"
IO 6 8 4 2 ...... . , .. . . . . 1 7 ..
28
"
" \ 9 8 1 4 1 5 4 ... ....... I I t 4: 4 3I
·•
"
2 21 21 Ij ..
1··11 , .. , ... 1···1 21 14
"
"
15 11 7 2 3 . . . 1 ..
I . .. 9 6 22
"
"
I 21 31 2 . .. 1. .. .. 1.. . . . 31 3 . • • 24

~

Yreka ... . ....... .... . Siskiyou,. ....... ,'May 8, I856 13, 101 8• 2: ... , ... I .... , .. · 1 · .. 1 3 2 :JO
Rabbit Creek. ....... . Sierra,. .. .. . . .. . "
"
" I 12 11 12 51 3 . . . ! 1 . . . .. . .. 5 2; 41
Quartzburg,. . . .. ... . . Mariposa,.... . . . "
"
"
4 5 4 2 3 . . . I . . 1 . . . . . . l j 26
La Grange,. ........ . Stanislaus,... ....
"
"
"
12 11 10 14 3 . . . . . . . . . . 1 11 4 37
Campo Seco,. . ...... . Calaveras,... . . . . . "
"
"
1 2 3 1 2 1.. . .. .. .. .
2 .. . I 25
,;
"
2 2 31 4 1. .. .. . . . .. .. .
3 2 1 20
Dutch Flat,. ....... . Placer,... . .. .. .. "
San Juan,. ....•.•.... Nevada,.. . . . . . . . "
"
;,
9 11
2t 2 . . . . . . . I 5 1 . .. 33
Oroville,. ........... . Butte... . . . . . . . . . '·
"
" I 19 14 12, Ill 3.1. . . . . . . I 3 5 21 38
Lexington,. ......... . Los Angeles,.. . . . " 15, "
I I II' 3: 31.. . .. ..
I 1 . .. .. . 25
Henley, ............ . Siskiyou,.. .. .. .. "
"
"
8 5 4 1 11.. . .. .. .. . .. . 4 1 I 16
Union,. .....•. ........ Humboldt, ...... May 14, 1857 15 15 121 71 ... J . . .
3 1 36
Garrote,. ........... . Tuolumne, . . . . . . "
"
"
8 7 51 21 ... ; .. . .. .. .. · .. · 1 21 I8
Johnson's Bar,....... . Siskiyou,....... . "
"
"
34 27 26 . . .
I 3 6 I 34
1 ... .. .. . .. .. .. • . . .
Alpha,. ....... . ..... . Nevada,......... "
"
"
18 13 11.
5 2 18
1
Watsonville, ........ . SantaCrnz,. ..... "
·•
"
3 2 IJ..
I 1 20
1
Chico,. . ....
Butte,. .. .. . . . . . . "
"
"
IOI 7 5, . . . , . ..... .. . . . . . . . . 3 2 I3
Knight's Ferry,. .....• San Joaquin,.. . .
"
"
"
3 3 3 1 6, ... ............ . . . . . . . I7
San Leandro.... .... . . .Alameda,. . ...... "
"
"
7 8 6 I .. . .. . 1.. .. . ..
2.1... 2 16
Grizzly Jt'lat, ........ . EI Dorado, . . . . . . "
"
"
7I 6 61.. . 1. .. . .. .. .. . .. ..
1 . . . 18
1
Fiddletown,. .. . .....• Amador, . . . . . . . . "
';
"
2 2 ......
2 12
Windsor,. .......... .. Sierra,...... . ... "
"
"
6, . . . . .. 2! .. . , ... ..........16 .. . 10
Sacramento,. ......... . Sacramento,. . . . . " 15, ;; .. ; ........ ·
23
Folsom,. . .. . •........ Sacramento..... . .
i o
4 .. . 2 .. . , .. . . . .. . . . .. • 1 4 12
Vallecito,. ......... .. Cala•eras,. . .. . ..
: ..
J . . . , . . T1 . . . . . . . .. .. . ..
10

69 Marysville,. .......... Yuba,...........
"
70 Yuba City, ........... Sutter,........... "
71 Michigan Bar,. ....... Sllcramento,. ... .
"
72 Ne•ada, ............. Ne•ada,....... . . "
73 Drytown,. ........... Amador,........
"
74 Wisconsin Hill ...· ..... 1Placer,.. . . . . . . . . "
75 Eureka North, ........ 1,Sierra,..........
"
·i 6 Angel's Camp, ....... 1ICafa•eras.. . .....
"
77 P etaluma .... . ..... ... Sonoma. : . .. ... . , ;•
78 San Anllreas,......... Calaveras,... .... "
79 !Buck8port,.... . ..... . Humboldt,. .... .. July
80 Ione Valley,....... . .. Amador,. .. . .... May
8l jYolo,. ......... ...... Yolo,. .......... .
"
82 Don P edro's Bar,. ...• Tuolumne,.,.. .. . "
831Todd'sValley,. . ... ... JPlacer,. ..... ....
"
84 Red Blnlfs,. .......... Shasta,......... . "
85 IIndian Diggings,. ..... El Dorado,......
"
86 St. Louis,. ........... 1Sierra,..........
"
87 Vallejo,. ............. 1Solano,. ......... 1 <;
88 IOrle~nsFlat, ......... Nevada,. ..... . . · I "
89 Empire Ranch, ....... Yuba,. ..... . . .. · 1 "
90 1ForksPoorMan'sCreek Plumas......... . "
91 !Indian Creek,. ....... Siskiyou.........
"
92 Coloma, .... . ... . . . .. El Dorado, ... .- ..
"
93 Youutville, ..... ...... 1Napa,. ..........
"
94 1Elizabethtown, . ..... . !Plumas,.......... "
95 Sutter Creek,. ........ !Amador,....... .
"

90 HOWARD,. . . . . . . . 1. 96
91 JEFFERSOX,.. .. .. . 97
92 QUARTZBURG,.. . . . . 98
93 LA GRAXGE,.. . . . . . 99
9~ CAMPO SEco,. ..... 1100
9a CLA.Y,. ........... 1101
96 MA~Z.\XITA,. ...... 11102
97 0ROYILLE, ........ 1103
l>O 98 LExr:mrox •....... 1104
00 99 SISKIYOU,. ........ 105
100 ARCATA,. ........ 106
101' MT. JEFFERSOX, .. · 1Io7
102 OwEN, ........... 108
-103. DmBI.E,. .......... 109
I041 PAJARO, .......... 110
105 Cn1co,. ........... Ill
1061SUIDfIT,. .......... 1112
1071 EDEN,. ........... 113
108: llT. Zrox,. ........ 114
1091ST. llARli:'s,. ...... 115
110: WIXDSOR,.......... 116
1111 CONCORD,........ 117
112 FOLSOM, .......... U.D.
113 VALLECITO, ....... U.D.

65 NEBRASKA,. . . .. . ..
66 E. K. K.u."E,.......
67 TYRO,............
68 W1scoxarx Hrr.r.,.. .
<W Moi;KTAL" FoRESr,.
iO B:i-;AH Moc-xTAIN,.. .
ilPETALDLl,....... .
i2 C.u..n·ERAS, .. _.... .
73 H
. cYBoLor....... . .
74 loxf:.... . .........
i5YoLO.............
i6 Mor.xr.<rx,........
77RrsrxGSrAR,.....
78 YESPER,..........
79 lNDIAX DrnGrxGs...
80 Sr. Lons,.........
81 NAVAL,...........
82 Qt'IL~.L", .. _......
83 Ro~E ·s B.rn,.......
84 POLAR STAR,......
85 NoRTH STAR,......
86 ACACIA,..........
87 C.lYXGH,. .........
88 Mou~'T HER'llOX,.. .
89 1HEi..,tY CLAY,......

u21~loR!o."ING
63 ComNTHIL'i,.......
64 E1'"1'ERPRISE,.......

1

0 F

Gontinved.

1 S1
!:
I
STAR,.... 68 Stockton, ........... San Joaquin .... . May 2, 18551 31 6 7 8 8 . . . 1 . . . . . 2 2 . . . 34

1

p [.Ac E

- ~~~~~~~~~---'~~~~~~

Ol'

NA :II ES

List of Lodges, etc. -

211

[May,

JOURNAL OJI' l'ROCE!:DING!!.

585i.]

219

GRAND LOD.GE OF CALIFORNIA.

GRAND OFFICERS,
Elected since the Organization of the Grand Lodge of California.

EXPU LSIO NS ,AND SUSPENSIONS
iaao.
JONATHAN [). STEVENso11, ............ , •••• , Gra11d Masttr.
JoHN A. TUTT, .................... , .... .... Dep. Grand Masttr.
CALEB l<'ir.111u:R , ......................... ... Sen Grand Wardtn.
S\SCHEL Woons," .......................... J,.n. Gra71d Wardtn.
LY.VI STOWELi.," ............ , .............. Grand Tr·easurer.
JoHN H. G1Ho11,. ........... ................ Grand Secrttary.

DURING T::S:E -YEAR-

EXPELLED:
Parfaite Union
Moimtain Shadt
SAMUEJ. P. NYE,. .... .. . . ......•...•• . .. . " Georgetown
THOYAS CHIETO, .• . .•••..•••.•..•••••••• "

J.M. GARDNlm, •. • ••••• • •••••••••••• • ••• "

PHILIP STREUTZ, ••••••••••• • ••••••••••• • " . Diamond

F. SNYDER,. .••••••••••••••••••••••••••• " Mokelum11e
WILUAM HooK, ..•.......•••••.......... " Jfartinez
J. A. BowDEN, .... . ......... . ....... . ... " Iliram
D. N. ALLAN, ••••••••••••••• • ••••.•• • ..• " lowa Hill
.LlCOB TIEHL, •••••••••••••••••••••• • ••• • " Amador

Er.IJAII RAY, ••••••• • •••••••••••••••• • •.• " Mi1111esota
WM. TEKUSCB, (E. A .) . . . ............... . " St. Louu
J. J. JllAY,............ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . " C!aymua

1081.

"

"

"

"
"
"

",,
"
"

"
"
"..

"

"
"
"
"
"

17,
18,
25,
29,
31,
41,
43,
63,
65,
67,
8G,
93,

SUSPENDED:
J. C. BLAKENEY, •••••.• • •••••• •• •••• • •••• by Temple

.F. W. THAYER,••••.•••• , ••••••.•• • ••• • .• " Madiaon
R. L. GREEN, .••••••••••• • •••••.••••.••• " Mariposa
OBED JllACY,. ••••.•••••••••• • •.•• • •••••• " L-08 Angeles
JOHN Rrx HALE, .• . . ••. . .•••.••... • ••.•• " <JreacenJ,
JosEPH HARRIS,. . •• •..••. . ••••••.••••••• " Union
A. L. Botras,. ........... . . . .. . ...... . ... " Morni11g Star
T110MAS GEA.GRAM,, •••. • .•••.•••••••.• .• " Mount Hermon
J. O. BRIEN,••••••••• . • • ••••• • ••• • • • •••. " Jefferaon
Joml' H. INNETT, ...... . ....... . ... .. . . . . " Quartzburg

Lodge, lto.

14,

"

23,
24,
42.
45,
58,
68,
94,
97,
98,

"
"
"
,,"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

Jom• A. 'l'uTT, ................ ............. Grand MtJ.Ster.
Hv.NJ. D. HY.AM·, .......................... • lJep. Grand MtUtel'.

E. F. \V. E1.L1s, ............................ Sen. Grand Warden.
B. 8. 01.ns, ............................... • Jun. Grand Warden.
'I'. A. 'J'H,.MAS,. ............................ Gm71d Trtatmrer.
L:i:v1 ST0WEL1.," ........................... Grand Secretary.
:I.OBS.

IlF.NJ. D. Hvu1,. ................. ........... Grand Jlfaater.
CHAS. M .. ltADCLU'F, ..................... , • .Dep. Grand Master.
ADol. PHUs Hol. LUB,. ................. , .... , Sen. fhand Warden.
J. R . !lfcCoNN1':LL, .... •• ................... • Jun. Grand Warden.
ADDISON MARTIN, ............. , ............ Grand 7'reasurer.
LF.VI STOWELL," ........................... Gra1ul SecretaMJ.

iasa.

CHAS. M. RADCLIFF, ....................... Grand Maat!r.
'f. A• 'J'uoMAS, ............................. /hp. <rra11d litaster.
.rom1 fl. CRANDALL, ...... , ................ Sen. Gra71d Warden.
R1cHARD P. KNoTT,. ................... .... Ju11 . Grand Wardtn.
ADDI So If MARTIN ........................... (hand Treaimrer.
L1tv1 STOWELL,* ... •• ................ , ... ,. G ran..-l Secretal'tJ.

1864.
\VM. H. HowARD, .......................... Grand Malter.

N. GR!o:F.NF. CURTIS,. .................... ... 1Jep. Grand llfasttr.
Rv.c1'1>R E. Cou: ............................ Sen. Grand JVardtn.
Ron>:RT N. Woon, ..................... .... Jun. Grand Wardtn.
ADDISON MAnTrn,. ......................... Gra11d Treamrer.
L1tv1 STOWELL,« .. • ........................ Grand S•cretary.

iaaa.

\VM. H. HoWARD, .......................... Grand Mast•r.

'l'. A. 'l'HOMAS, .. • .. • .... • ................. • Dtp. Grand Ma.Ater.
J. A . RAYMOND, ......... • .................. Sen. Orand Wardm.
S•MU'P:L A. MF.RRITT, ...................... Jun. Grand Wardm.
ADDUIOM M.-J\TJ111, ••• ••• •••• ••. • . . . . . . . . . . . . . (}rand

Trea1nrer.

LEVI 8TOWEl.L,"................ ••• ...... ,.Grand Secretary.

1886.

\VM. H. How ARD, ................ .......... Grand Master.
J. A. RAYMOND, ......... • ................ .. Dep. Grand Masttr.
LEMUEi. LYoN, ............................. Sen. Grand Warden.
P. W. RANDLE, ........................... • Jun. Gra71d Wardtn.
ADDISON M•RTl!f, .......................... Grand Treasurer.
ALEX. G. ABELL, ........................... Grand Secretar1J.
186'7.

N. ORY.EN•: CURTIS, ........................ Grand Master.
CHARLES MARSH, ... • ..................... • Dep. Grand Master.
AAROll D. PARK, ................. .......... Sen. Grand Warden.
JoHll B. BoPx ....... ......., ................ Jun. Grand Wardon.
ADDISON l\f.ARTIN,. ......................... Grand Treasurer.
ALllX. G. ABELL, .. • ........................ Grand S ecretar1J.

--- - •------------------'Dcoeuod..

220

.toti'.RNAL or Pkoc:EEbi:Nos.

GR.AND LODGES
IN COMMUNICATION WITII

(!t~e ~tanb tobgt of Qialifornia.
~·ran~ Jrobge of '1!alifontin.

In the United States of A1ne1·ica.
GRAND I.ODGES.

•GP.AND SECltET.UtIES.

JIESllJENCE.

ALABAMA, .. . . ... . ...• ... . . ... . AM.AXD P. PFISTER, ... . .. . Mrmlgomery.
ARKANSAS,.... ..... •• .•.....•.. THo~LlS D. MEURICK, .• , ... Little Rock.
CONNECTICUT, ........... .. .... EUPHALET G. STORE!\.... . New Havc11.
DELAWARE, .•. . ... . .. .......•.. DANIEr. R. Wor.FE, .. .' ..... New Castle.
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, ....... GEollGE C. Wnrmm, •.•... Washingtcm.
FLO RID A, .. .. . .. ........ . .... .. JOHN Il. TA non, .........• Tdltaliaasee.
GEORGIA, .. . ... . ..... . .. ....... S!MRI RosE, . .. . ...•. . ... . Macon.
ILLINOIS, •....... . ...... . ..... . lIAmtoN G. REYNOLDS, ... . Knoxville.
INDIAN A,. . ••..• ... ... ...... ..•. FRANC!~ Kum,. .....••.••. Indianapolis.
IOWA, ...... ..... ............... T. S. PA.llvrN, ••••••.•• •• . Muscatine.
KANSAS, ..... ..•.••...... . ...... CHAS. F. HARRISON,. ..... . Leavenworth.
KENTUCKY, •.• •• •.............. JouN M. S. McCoRKr.E,. . .. Gnemburg.
LOUISIANA, ..••••.... .. . •• ..•.. SAMUEL G. RisK, ........ . . NeiJJ Orleans.
MAINE, .. . ..•.... ... ...•........ IRA BEmtY,. .......... . . . Portland.
MARYLAND, .... ... .........•. . . JosEPll HonrNSON, ......... BaUirrwre.
MASSACHUSETTS, .... •...•••••• CHARLES W. i\iooRE, ..•.... Bost.on.
MICHIGAN, •........... . .... .... Jurns 1''ENTON, ....•... . . . Detroit.
MINNESOTA,. ................... HENRY REYNOLDS, .... ... . St. Anthcmy.
MISSISSIPPI, ........•..•..•.. .. . H. W. T. DANua., ....... . Jackson . .
MISSOURI, ................ . .... . A. O'SuLr.tVAN,. .......... St. Louis.
NEW HAMPSHIRE, .....•...... . . Ho1uc.i,; CHASE, .......... . Hoplcintcm.
NEW JERSEY, .. . •........ • .•... Josf;Pu H. Houon, ........ T'l'e11ton.
NEW YORK, •••. , ................ J.UIE::! M. AUSTIN, .•..... . Netu l'ork.
NORTH CAROLINA, .. ....... .. . WILLIAM T. BAIN, •....... . Raleigh.
OHIO, .. . ....................... Jonx D. CuowE1.L, ....... Cincinnati.
OREGON, ...................... . WM. S. CALDWELL,. ... . .. . Portl.and.
PENNSYLVANIA, . . . . . . . . . . . ... WrLu.rn H. ADAM:l, .... ... . Pliiladelpliia.
RH 0 DE ISLAND, ........... .. ... W11.LIAM C. IlARDEH, ...... l'rovide11ce.
SOUTH CAROLJNA, •.•.•. .••.... Ar.nEUT G. MACKEY, ....... Gharlestrm.
TENNESSEE, ...... .. ..... . •••• .. CH AHLES A. FuLr.En, ...... Nashvilk.
'£EXAS,. .. ................. .. . .. A. S .. RUTHVEN,. .. .. .. ... . Houston.
VERMONT, ••..•... . ....• .. ...... JONH ll. HOLLENBECK, ...... Burlington.
VIRGINIA,. . ........ .... ........ J Oil~ DoVE, .............. Richmcmd.
WISCONSIN, .......•...•....•.•. WILLIAM R. SMITH, •....... Mineral Puint.

Foreign G1·aud Bodies.
PlWVINCIAL GRAND LODGE,} ,
OF CANADA WEST,
:E RANCHI RICHARDSON, ... .. %ronto.
GRAND ORIENT OF FRANCE... ADot.PlIE l'EmEn, ... ..... Paris.
GRAND LODGE OF SCOTLAND, W:11. ALEX'n LAURIE,. ..... Edinburg.
NATIONAL MOTHEit GRAND}
LODGE OF THE THRl~E
JJ.c. RuD. MERTEN, ....•.. . Berlin.
GLOBES. IN PRUSSIA,
GRAND ORIENT OF BELGIUM, L. TuEnEMr~, . , .......... Bruseels.
GRAND LODGE OF GERMANY, KARL ED'D lliNCBE, .•.. •.. Berlin.

I, .A.LEXA,NDER G. ABELL, Grand Secretary of the M...w... Grand Lodge of
Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California, do hereby certify that the
following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of the proceedings of that
body at its ninth Annual Communication, commenced at the City of Sacramento
on Tuesday, the eleventh day of May, A. L. 5858, and of the returns of the subordinate Lodges and other matters authorized to be published.

Jn ii!estimonn :ln~ereof,
I

have hereunto appended my

official signature, and have affixed
the Serl of the Grand Lodge of the
State of California, at the office of
the Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this twelfth day of
June, A. L. 5858.

PROCEEDINGS
OF

THE

M:.W:. GRAND LODGE
0 :r

OF

THE

STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
AT

THE

NlN'l:ll .l\.NN"\1 .l\.L COM.M.l1NlC.l\.'l:lON,
HELD

AT

COMMENCED ON

TUESDAY, MAY llTR, A. D. 1858, A. L. 5858,
A.ND TERMINATED ON

lllONDAY, MAY 17TH, A, D . 1858, A, L . 5838,

•

®rlrmlr to ~! 3ll.talr In aII tbt i-olrgt•.

SAN FRANCISCO:
FRANK EASTMAN, PRINTER, FRANKLIN OFFICE,
WaohlBlf<>D Bt., nearly opposite the Post omoe.

185~

GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE

0 F THE

OF

GRAND L 0 D GE 0 F CALIF ORNIA,

.lrtt anb Q\cctpltb Jllasons
OF

T HE

FOR THE YEAR COM...\iENCING MAY, A. L. 5858.

STATE OF CALIFORNIA.
:NINTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION.

M." W.".N. GREENE CURTIS, .. GRAND MASTER,. ..... ... . Sacramenk>;
R.'. w. .. P. W. SHEPHEARD, .... DEPUTY GRAND MASTER,... San Franci&co;
" " WM. McCORMICK,. .. . . SENIOR GRAND WARDEN,. . . GraAs Valley;
" " J AS. W. BICKNELL,.. . . JUNIOR GRAND WARDEN, . .. Volcano;
" " ADDISON MARTIN,.. .. GRAND TREASURER, .. .. .. . San Franci&co;
" " ALEX. G. ABELL, ..... GRAND SECRETARY, ....... San Franciaco;
Rev.8( w: ..w M. H. HILL, . ... ..... GRAND CHAPLAIN,. . • .•.... Sacramento;
w.., J AME.S L. ENGLISH, .. GRAND ORATOR,. .. . . ..... Sacramento;
" L AWRENCE C. OWEN, . AssT. GRAND SECRETARY,., San Jira~~;
" THOMAS P. HAWLEY,. GRAND MARSHAL,. • •••.•• . Nevada;
" JOHN M. TINGLEY,... . GRAND STANDARD BEARER, . St. Louis;
" ISAAC N. BARNES, .. .. GRAND SwoRD BEARER, ... . Placervilk;
" GEORGE C. YOUNT,. . . GRAND BIBLE BEARER, . ... Yountvilk;
" WILLIAM McKEAN, ... SENIOR GRAND DEACON,.•. , Grizzly Flat;
" E. H. VAN DEC AR,.... . JUNIOR GRAND DEACON,. .. . Iowa Hill;
" GILBERT LANPHIER,. }
{ Johnson'a Bar;
GRAND STEWARDS,...
Downievilk .
" LEWIS REYNOLDS ,.. . .
,
" HENRY L. DAVIS,. .... GRAND' ORGANIST,......... San Jii-ancisco;
" N. DENNIS WITT, . .. .. GRAND PURSUIVANT,. ..... . Orovilk;
" O. D. CHAFEE,. .. . .... . GRAND TYLER, . .. . .. . .... Sacrament.o.

TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC HALL FUND:
W,.,JOHN F. MORSE,. . . .. . .. ... .. . Sacramento;
" JAME.S L. ENGLISH, . . . ... . .. ..Sacramento;
" RECTOR E. COLE, . ..• ....... ..San Franciaca.

'
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of F ree and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its Ninth Annual Communication at the Masonic Hall, in the City of Sacramento, on Tuesday, the
eleventh day of May, A. L. 5858, at 10 o'clock, A. M.
Upon calling the roll of members, there were found present the
following:GR.\ND OFFICERS:

The M.·. W.· . N. GREENE CURTI S, ............... Grand Master;
R:. W.'. CHARLES MARBH,. ..................... . .. Deputy Grand Master ;
" AARON D. PARK:, ......................... Senior Grand Warden;
"
JonN B. BoPE, .... ... ............ ...... ..Junior Grand Warden;
"
" ADDISON MARTIN, ....................... Grand Treasurer ;
"
" ALEX. G. ABELL,. ........................ Grand Secretary,·
J
R ev. and W.·. 0. C. WHEELER,. ........... .............. Grand Chaplain;
W.·.,L. C. OwEN,................. ..............Aast. Grand Secretarg;
" EDGAR BOGARDUS, .. .................. .. .. Grand Standard B earer ;
GEORGE C. YouNT, ......... .......... .. .. Grand Bible B earer,·
'' E. LANE, •• ••.••• •••••.••••••.•••••••••••••• Grand Steward;
" H. L. DAv1s, .... .. ......... ....••••..•••.. Grand Organi3t J.
0 . D. CHAFEE, ...... . ..................... Grand Tyler.
PAST GRAND OFFICERS:
The M:. W:. JOHN A. T uTT, ...... ......... ......Paat Grand Master;
W:ir. H.HowARD, .............. .. ..Paat Grand Master;
R:. W:. J. A. RAYl!OND, ............ ~ .......Past Deputy Grand Haate1·;
" " ADcp-PHUS HoLLUB,. ............. .. Past &n~or Grand Warden ;
"
" JoHN R. CRANDALL................ P ast Senior Grand Warden ;

And the representatives of seventy-nine chartered Lodges, together
with a large number of Past Masters entitled to seats.
(5]

226

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

1858.]
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the following appointments, pro tempore : The W.·. HENRY F. WILLI.A.Ms, as .................. Grand Orator;
WM. F. KNox, ......... as ........•......... Grand Marshal;
" C. C. GREEN, ....•...... as .................. Grand Sword Bearer;
"
CHAR.LES RAISH, ••. ••. . as ................. . Senior Grand Deacon;
"
·'

There being a sufficient representation, the Grand Lodge of California was opened in ~mplt cf'orm, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain.
The Grand Master announced the following committee Bro. William H. Howard,
" Addison Martin,
On Credentials,........................
" Jae. W. Bicknell,
" John W. Harville,
•
" J. E. Stevens.

l

Jn <lirnni) !oi)gc.
}

Tuesday, Moy 11th, A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following officers and ·representatives of chartered Lodges,
and Past Masters holding membership within this jurisdiction, as present and entitled to seats in the Grand Lodge, viz. : from
HENRY F. WILLI.AMS, Worshipful Master·; '
BENJ. II. FREEMAN, Senior Wardon;
WM. H. LYON, Junior Warden;
{
ALEX. G. ABELL, Past Master.
J. A. RAYMOND; Worshipful Master and P. M.;
H. H. SHUFFLETON, Senior Warden;
Western Star, .....No. 2,... WHITING G. WEST,}
{
Past Masters.
J OSEPH I RA.ACS,

[61 .

A. T. NELSON, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
1Mama,...... ............
""o 3,.. . JGt:o. H.
A CARTTER,
T
} Semor Warden and P. M. ,·
{ 0~~ C~AF~~~· Past Masters.

{ADOLPHUS HoLLU.B, Wor. Master and P. M.;
. '
San Franciaco, -... No. 7,... JoHN WADE, Semor Warden;
ADDISON MARTIN, Past Master.
Tuolumne, ......... No. 8, ...... W. W. TRAYLOR, Po.st Master.
Maryaville,.: ....... No. 9, ......C. A. HATH':ELL, Senior Warden.
CHAS, F. WILLEY, Senior Warden;
San JoBe, ......... No. 10,... WM. H. How ARD,} p t M te
{ JoHN B. lliwsoN,
118
as rs.
Yount, ............No. 12, ......JoHN H. SEAWELL, P. M. and Representative.
Nevada, ........... No. 13, ...... Tnos. P. HAWLEY, Wor. Master and P. M. '

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 1>'clock, this afternoon,

.
.
Oalifornia, ...•..... No.1,...

227

Benicia, ...... .' .•••. No. 5, ... {WM. S. WELLS, Worshipful Master and P. ~L;
JOHN M. NEVILr.E, Past Master.

URIAH EnwARDs, ...... a.s .................. Junior Grand Deacon;
ALANSON WHELAN., ... as .................. Grand Steward;
J. E. STEVENS, ......... as .................. Grand Pursuivant.

AFTERNOON 8ESSION1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Eureka, ........... No. 16 ... { M. P. II. LOVE, Worshipful Master;
· '
J, R. CRANDALL, Past Master.
Parfaite Union,.No. 17, ...... B&RNARD DENNERY, Junior Warden.

· { JoHN S. VAN DYKE, Worshipful Master ;
.
Mountain Shade,No.18,... SAMUEL W. LANGTON, Senior Wnrden;
LEwrs REYNor.Ds, Past Master.
ll. C. HARRISON, Worshipful Master;
.
EDWARD E. EYRE, Senior Warden;
.
JAMES S. JAMISON, Junior Warden;
Wa.Bhington,. .... No. 20,... N. GR&En CuRTis, }
G. I. N. MoNEr.L,
p
M
ast asters.
H. II. HART!.EY,
ISAAC DAVIS,
Hawaiian, ...... ,No. 21, ...... ALEX. G. ABELL, Representative.

I

U'ad:son

no 23

{ WH. McCORMICK, Wor. Master and P. M.;

'a' • '· ··· ·· ··•·"' · ,. ·· 0. H. DIBBLE, Past Master.

Maripoaa, ........ No. 24, ......WM. A. KrNG, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Georgetown,. ..... No. 25, ..•••• A. D. RoCic, Representative.

'
{EDGAR BOGARDUS, Worshipful Master and P.M.;
El Dorado, ...... No. 26,... Is.A.Ac N. BARNES, Senior Warden;
W• .A. JANUARY, Past Master.
Oolumbia, ....••.. No. 28, ......J.AMES A. JACKSON, Paet Master.
AARON D. P ..i.RK, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Diamond, ..•..•.• No. 29,... { EDWARD H. EvANs, proxy for Senior Warden·
WM. R. RrsoN, Junior Warden.
'
Golden Gate, .... No. 30, ...... LAwRENCE C. OwEN, Past Master.
Gold Hill, ........ No. 32,...

JAMES HOLCOMB, proxy for w ors~_ipful Maeteq
E. SYLVESTER, yroxy for Senior Warden;
{ D. V. MASON, J'unior Warden.

[7]

,
JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

228

1859.)

[May,

1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

FJ. K. Kane, .•....No. 72,...

Opltir, ....•.......N<>. 83,. ..•.. Wx. H. BARNES, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Santa Clara, •... No. 34, ...... H. J. BRADLEY, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Butte, .............No. 36, ...... A. L. CHAMBERLAIN, Senior Warden.

229

T. H. ROLFE, Worshipful Master ·
SoL. KOHLMAN, Senior Warden; '
CHARLES MARSH, }
{ C.
C. GRBEN,
Past MasteTs.

Tyro, ...........•..No., 73, ......W. T. CuRTie, Worshipful Master.
Petaluma, ........ No. 77, ......URIAH EDWARDS, Worshipful Master.
llumboldt, ....... No. 79,. •.... W. L. l<'i:RGusoN, Worshipful Master.

,

{JNo. GREEN, P . M. andproxyforW.M. &J.W.;
St. Johns, .......No. 37,... D. B. KITTS, pro:x:y for Benior Warden.

Santa Cruz, ......No. 38,. .....H. J. HILL, Junior Warden.

Yolo,. .............. No. 81, ... { N. WYCKOFF, Worshipful Master;

CHARLES RAISH, Worshipful Master ;

JOHN D. STEPHENS, Senior Warden.

Yuba, ............. No. 39,.. . { WM. C. STOKES, Senior Warden.

Rising Star, ..... No. 83, ... { J. W. HARVILLE, Worshipful Master and P. M.;

WM. T. KNOX, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
Sacramento, ...... No. 40,... { JAs. L. ENGLISH, l Past Masters.
J.M. KooN,
J

JORN M. MINER, Junior Warden.

Vesper, ............No. 84, ......J. G. DoLL, Past Master and Representative.
Ind'ian D'igginga,~•o.85,
·
u
..... .J. B. CARTER, Worshipful Master and P. M.
St. Louis,. .......No. 86, ......J. M. TINGLEY, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Naval, .............No. 87, ... : .. NATHAN FLANDERS, Senior Warden.

DARWIN CHASE, Worshipful Master;

Hiram, ....... :.... No. 43,... JosEPH E. S1M¥ONS, Senior Warden;
{ W. H . PAVEY, Junior Warden.

.

.

{PHIL. W. SHEPHEARD, Wor. Master and P. M.;

Mt. Moriah, .•.••. No. 44,... J.E. TERRELL, Senior Warden.

Quitman, .........No. 88, ... { R. B. Mons, Worshipful Master;

Tezas, •...•. .......No. 46, ......W. B. L. CLARK, Wor. Master and P. M.
Michigan Oity, ..No. 47 ......J. T . HIGBEE, Worshipful Master.

Rose's Bar, ......No. 89, ...... A. L. MoRRISON, Worshipful Master.
Polar Star,. ..... No. 90,. ..... ARTHUR E. WAITS, Worshipful Master.

W. C. WooD, proxy for Senior Warden.

Louis COHN, WorshiJ!ful Master and P. M.

.

Lebanon, ........•.No 49.... { F. A. BENJAMIN, Semor Warden.
lllinoistown, .....No. 61,. ....•WM. M. STUART, Senior Warden.
Rough&: Ready, No. 52, ...... E. W. RoBERTS, Worshipful Master.
St. James, ......•. No. 54, ......WM. D. NEwTnN, Senior Warden and P. M.
Suisun, .......•... No. 55,. ... .. P. 0. CLAYTON, Worshipful Master.
Volcano, .. .'...... No. 56, ......JAs. W. BICKNELL, W orshipful Master.
&nta Rosa, ... ..No. 57, ......JNo. HENDJ.EY, Representative.

Acacia,............ No. 92,...

{ RoBERT BELL, proxy for Worshipful Master ·
THos. II. WILLIAMS, proxy for Senior Ward~n ·
RoBERT CHALMERS, Junior Warden.
'

Caymua,, ......... No. 93,...

EDWARD L. LEVEY, Worshipful Master·
GEORGE C. YouNT, S11nior Warden·
'
{ WM. BALDRIDGE, Junior Warden. '

Mt. Hermon, ..... No. 94, ...... ISAAC M. WALTER, Worshipful Master.
Henry Cl,ay,. .... No. 95, .. . .. . ALVINZA HAYWARD, Worshipful Master.
Howard, .......... No. 96, ... {EDGAR W.PoTTER, Worshipful Master and P.M.;

R1cHARD DALE, Worshipful Master ;

JONAS W. BROWN, proxy for Senior Warden.

Union, ..•.........No. 58,... { JESSE MORRILL, Sen. Wnrden and Past Master.

Jejferson, ......... No. 97, ......E. LANE, Worshipful Master and Past Master.
Campo Seco, ... No. 100,. .....JoHN M. Ki:ITH, Worshipful Master.
Clay, ............No. 101, ......LEWIS D. KOPP, Junior Warden.
Manzanita, ..... No. 102,...... A. FRASER, Representative.
Oroville, ......... No. 103, ...... D. A. BROWN, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Owen, ...... · ..... No. 108,. .....GILBERT LANPHIER, Worshipful Master and P.M.
Dibble, ........... No. 109, ......W. W. WIXOM, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Chico, ............ No. 111,......H. W. JENNINGS, Representative.
Summit,. ........ No. 112,. ..... M. C. EDWARDS, Worshipful Master and P. M.

Grave,l Range, ... No. 59, ......P. McNuLTY, Worshipful Master.
Live Oak,. ..... ... No. 61, ...... HoRACE A. HIGLEY, P. M. and Repr~sentative.
L. BATES, Worshipful Master ;

Natoma, .. ··• .....No. 64,... { ALFRIID SPINKS, Past Master.

Amador, ....... ...l{o. 65, ......W. W. CoPE, Wor. Master and Past Master.
GEo. W. HOPKINS, Worshipful Master;

Forest, ~ ......... :.No. 66,... { JoBN B. BoPE, Past Master.

Minmaota, .......No. 67,. .....ALA"KSON Ww:uN, Worshipful Master.
Morning Star,. ..No. 68, ... , ..L. C. VAN ALLEN, Senior Warden.
Oorinthian, ......No. 69, ..... . D. C. STONE, Representative.
E~, .......No. 70,. ..... J. E. STEVENS, Wor. Master and Past Master.

Mount Zion,. .... No. 114,. .. { Wx. McKEAN, Worshipful Master and P. M.;
J OHN A. STEELEY, proxy for Senior Warden.

Windaor, ........ No. 116, ...... R. R. JOHNSON, Worshipful Master.
2
f9]
.

Nebraska, ..•. .... No. 71,. .....K. DAVIDSON, Representative.
[8]

•

,
230

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

THOMPSON, Worshipful Ma's ter and P. M.;
fJ.J. L.L. PoLHEMus,
Senior Warden;

Ooncord! ......... No.117, ... lLEvr HERMANCE, Junior Warden;
B. B. BROWN, Past Master.

The foregoing report was received and concurred in, nod the
brethren therein named were admitted to seats.
The reading of the proceedings at the last Annual Communication
was dispensed with, the members being furnished with printed copies
thereof.
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address to the Grand
Lodge of California, as follows : BRETHREN OF THE MOST WORSHIPFUL
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA:

ONCE more in the passage of time we are permitted to meet in our annual c~n­
vocation to consult in regard to the interests of our beloved Order, and to devise
those means best adapted to its continuance and prosperity, to insure its
permanency, and to develope its inner life, that its good may be felt where~er
its name is known, and that those who are around us, and to whom each action
of the Fraternity becomes a thing of closest scrutiny, may acknowledge and
approve our course, as one claiming the sympathy of the good, the assistance
of the benevolent, and the earnest prayers of all who ~ould aid the friend
of the friendless-the guardian of the fatherless and destitute.
.
To that Divine Master of us all, whose eye overlooks a11, and whose kmd
providence guards the path which each of us does tread, our most humble and
heartfelt thanks for our preservation and return to this ball in peace are due.
J greet you here to-day, my brethren, and it is with great joy that I see so
many present whom I have met in preceding years, interchanging thoughts,
comparing work, and toiling together for the common good of the Craft.
And yet this joy which I feel at beholding so many here that I have met before,
hath its shade of sadness. Mortality has claimed its tribute from among us.
There are places here we were wont in times gone by, to see filled by familiar
faces, which will be seen no more; voices, once heitrd with pleasure, are forever hushed in the deep silence of the grave ; and forms that moved among
us the personation of all that was manly and worthy of being loved, have crumbl~d to their p~rent dust. Noble spirits have-burst the bands that bound them.
here, to enter the untried future. Gentle souls have escaped the sorrows of
earth and time, to seek the fruition of their hearts' hopes in heaven and eternity-each carrying with him a record of his work for the inspection of the
Infinite.
Ours is not a legislature of political sovereignty, or of social rights or conduct that is to govern men in their political or social intercourse purely, but a
higher one-one that ministers to the sick heart and desponding mind. The
one can be reversed, and a succeeding enactment of sovereignty may amend
and restore rights taken and repair wrongs done. Not so our legislation, whirh
is but the interpretation of principles having with them the sanction of centuturies the adhesion of the great of the past, and the earnest support of the
emine~t of the present. One wound inflicted upon that ancient structure mars
the fairness of its proportions, and is attended by consequences of so great a
magnitude that the most reckless should shrink from their contemplation with
dismay. It is a loosened joint which will be fo11owed by the decay that precedes the fall of the temple. Those ancient land-marks once attacked and

(10]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

231

weakened, ijO succeeding convocation can restore to them their strength and
beauty.
It is a source of satisfaction that I am able to congratulate you at this time
upon the general welfare and prosperity of our beloved Order in this Commonwealth. With a firm and steady, though silent exercise of its powers, it has
extended its numbers, widened its field of usefulness, and exemplified its principles-endearing its members to t he precepts which govern it, and knitting
with closer ties each to the other in the sustaining of the rights so dear to all;
while without our circ.le of brotherhood, the world has been taught to resp~ct
our motives, and appro ve our actions.
This general harmony of action and feeling has met with but one interruption which has come to my knowledge, and that.is in the instance of Lebanon
Lodge, No. 49. One of its members having been guilty of a gross violation of
Masonic law and duty, and the Lodge having refused to punish him therefor,
believing it to be for the best interests of the Fraternity, I arrested the Charter
of that Lodge, suspended the offending member from all the rights and privileges of Masonry, and summoned him to appear and take his trial before this
Grand Lodge. All the papers in reference to this case are in. the hands of the
Grand Secretary.
To the wise, this general prosperity presents its elements of danger-for
while there is nothing seemingly to guard against, a relaxation of that vigilance
which should always watch at the portals of .our temple., is most to be dreaded.
This is true in all lands and among all societies. How much more forcibly
may it be put in this land of strangers, coming from every country, speaking evory
tongue, the representatives of every people. Unknown t o each other, save in
that restless and careless association which marks the society of the people of
this great and growing Commonwealth; their past history beyond our knowledge; their hearts a sealed book which we have no power to open or peruseall should be subject to the closest scrutiny, and if aught is found upon which
to base the slightest doubt, it should make an impassable barrier between them
nnd us. It is far better that we turn away many good men from our altars,
than that we hazard oar good no.me and reputation by accepthig a single bad
one; for upon that reputation rests, in an eminent degree, our power to do
good. I have every reason to believe that the fraternity in this State are both
zealous and vigilant in the discharge of their duties in this respect. The
course now pursued by the Subordinate Lodges is such as necessarily impresses
the work upon each one who receives it, and forms the foundation p.pon which
to build a complete masonic education. The t horough examination to which
the candidates are subjected as they progress, renders it impossible that any
should be ignorant of the principles ta~ght or the duties enjoined by our
venerable and benevolent Institution.
Considering the circumstances which have governed the establishment of the
Order in this State, the harmony-attained in working is a source of congratulation to all. This was scarcely to have been expected, and it speaks volumes
for the earnestness and faithfulness of those who have contributed to such a
result. I would recommend that the work heretofore sanctioned by this
Grand Lodge, be fully exemplified at this Communication.
In obedience to a resolution of the Grand Lodge, I visited San Francuco
Lodge, No. 7, in May last, and am happy to state that the differences then existing in that Lodge have been amicably settled, and t hat peace and harmony
have fully been restored.
Many applications for d,ispensations have been made t o me for t he purpose
of conferring the degrees upon applicants in less time than that provided by
the Constitution, because the candidates were about leaving the Stat e. These [
have inyariably refused, for the reason that t hose applying had been living
within a short distance of Lodges for years, and had never discovered that
they could be of benefit to the Fraternity until they learned that t he Fraternity
could be of immediate benefit to them; and for the further reason, that I do
not think we have any right to inflict upon our brethren eleswhere half

[11)

232

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

made Masons, or hazard our reputation as workmen by sending such abroad
e.s accredited specimens of our labor. Our own jurisdiction has suffered too
much from that ca.use to be ignorant of its duty in this respect.
I have also received applications for dispensations to re-ballot for persons
rejected, within the time prescribed by the Constitution. The enactments of
this Grand Lodge, as expressive of its judgment upd'n the propriety of sueh a
term of probation, has governed me in the refuse.I of all such application&, I
believing them to be wise and salutary regulations.
My busi_ness engagements have rendered it impossible for me, during this
year, to visit many of the subordinate Lodges; but such as I have been enabled to call upon have left with me only impressions that they were truly and
faithfully discharging their duties, and fulfilling the object of their creation.
That I could not see more of them has been e. source of extreme regret, for
I had anticipated much satisfaction in visiting them during the past year.
Although deprived of that pleasure, I have been in correspondence with most
of the LodgeB in the State, and am satisfi ed that they are all in a prosp~rous
condition, and unceasing in their endeavors to promote and forward the mterests of the Ore.ft. Many questions of various kinds have been submitted to me,
which I have settled or explained to the best of my ability, and, as I believe,
in strict conformity with Masonic law and usage.
I have received a communication from the Grand Orient of France, through
its General Secretary, expressing its wish to establish more inti1;11ate relations with this Grand Lodge, and, to facilitate that object, requestmg me to
n11me three members of this body, from among whom the Grand Master of
France could select one to be the proper and authorized representative of that
Grand Orient near this Grand Lodge. Jn answer to that requ est I transmitted
the names of three prominent members of this Grand Lodge to Prince LUCIEN
MURAT; but have not yet received from the Grand Master of France the nnmcs
from which to select e. representative there, e.nd we are yet without any re~resen­
tation near th11t Grand body. You a.re all too well aware of the great importance of cultivating relations of the most friendly and intimate character with
the European Masonic Fraternity, for me to endeavor to impress it any more
deeply upon your minds l;>y any reason that I could give. The system proposed
by the Grand Master of France meets with my most hearty concurrence, not
only as being best adapted to the dissemination of a ~no~ledge ?four transactions, character, and work, as well as to the brmgrng a like knowle~ge
to us concerning the distant. members of our great Fraternity, bu_t as openmg
a channel through which the interests that we feel and the affections that we
entertain, may be sent, bringing back a like return.
A communication has been received from the Lodge Clemente Amitie, of
Paris, in France, soliciting aid in the benevolent undertaking, by them begun,
of establishing an orphan asylum; with the request that I would lay th~ same
before you at this Communication. The pA.pers relative thereto are m the
hands of the Grand Secretary, and your attention to the subject is respectfully
Invited.
I also received a communication from the Grand Master of Me.sons in Peru,
in June last informing nie of the insubordination and expulsion by the Grand
Orient of that Republic of two Lodges under its jurisdiction, -La Concordia
Univeraal and La EatreU~ Polar - for unmasonic and rebellious conduct. Immediately upon the reception of this information, I ordered :qotices to is.s~e. to
the Lodges of this jurisdiction, acquainting them of the facts an? proh1b1:mg
any intercourse with the said Lodges or their members. J have smce received
e.n address from the seceding Lodges, to which another appears to have been
added informingme of the establishment by those three ofe.n organization independe~t of the Grand Orient of Peru, and transmitting e. pamphlet containing
their defence for so doing. But there appears J\Othing in either of the papers
which seems to me to excuse their rebellion against the Grand Orient under
whose jurisdiction they were, or that would e_mpower t_hei;n with. a 7ig?t
establish another Grand Body, against the desire and w1thm the JUrisd1ction of

:o

[12]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

233

the one legally existing. Th~ act is in direct violation of all Masonic law, and we
cannot recognize those as just and true members of our Fraternity who could
so far forget its teachings as to mar by such high handed measures its peace
and harmony. Your early attention is invited to this subject, as containing:
that which is of vital importance to the well-being of the Craft. They
ask a recognition at your hands. Schism may be easily crushed in its infancy,
which, left to grow, might defy our utmost power.
I have received and herewith submit to you, a circular issued by authority
of the Grand Lodge of the State of Maine, containing a resolution urging the
formation of a General Grand Lodge of the United Stittes, to meet in September, 1859. The high Masonic source from which this emanates renders it deserving of your respectful consideration. The reasons urged by the committee are
forcibly and cogently stated, and are undoubtedly the result of a pure desire
to contribute to the welfare of the Order, as well as to perfect it in harmonious
action. l therefore present it to you for such action as you may deem best
calculated to promote the general good of our Institution.
I have also rece.iyed, and herewith submit for your consideration, certain
resolutions of the Grand Lodge of Virginia, asking t he cooperation of the
Grand Lodge of California in raising funds fo r the purchase of Mount Vernon.
There are none whose pride and patriotism, as well as fraternal love and respect, will not be awakened on a subject so dear to the Masonic heart. Our
reverence for the past, our thankfulness for tho blessings which throng t he
present, our hopes of the future, and our gratitude to the memory of the illustrious dead, all prompt us to every exertion to become the possessors of the
place where repose the remains of our brother and chief, GEORGE WASHINGTON;
making his tomb-as in time it must be-the Mecca of the patriot's pilgrimage.
The continuance of the difficultie~ which still surround and embarr11ss our
brethren of Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, in the Hawaiian Islands, demands careful
consideration at your hands, that some means be adopted t o relieve t hem from
the annoyances which constantly disturb their harmony and peace, in consequence of the existence of tfie so-called Lodge Le Progria de l' Oceanie, at
that place.
You will be called upon at this Communication to determine upon a change
in the organic law of Masonry in this State. You'can not exercise too much
care and wisdom in the enactment or a.Iteration of the laws which are so vitally to affect the Fraternity. Too much legislation is ever attended with a
danger of encroaching upon the ancient landmarks of the Order, or infringing
upon some of those rights which are the inalienable inheritanye of each member, however humble.
I would respectfully recommend a thorough revision of the Standing Resolutions, as many of them are inoperative, and as the reasons which gave rise to
others ha.ve ceased to exist, leaving some useless, and others Injurious in their
operation. The substance of many of them is embodied in the proposed new
Constitution which was presented at your la.~t Communication, and which you
will have to pass upon at this. A few clear and concise regulations are all
that are needful, and would fulfil their office much better t han the many without that conciseness. I would also recominend a repeal of the resolution permitting the subordinate Lodges to ballot for the three degrees at the so.mo
time. If not an infringement upon Masonic usage, as I am in,clined to think it
is, it he.a been, and I think must ever be, attended with confusion and evil t o
the Fraternity. There are too few guards around us to dispense with any one
of them. They were framed with long thought, have endured the lapse of
time unshaken, and have.survived the world's frown and condemn11tion. They
exert now, and always have exerted a salutary effect upon the Order, and I
think we had better leave them as our Masonic fathers projected and transmitted them to us. It is a source of pain to me to see the desire for change
and alteration which has invaded our councils, as the preservation of our
marks of antiquity alone gives to us the benefit of that universality which is
one of our greatest boasts. Once admitted to change, and every link which

[13]

284

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[Mal/,

binds us to the Fraternity elsewhere will be broken, the catholicity that it now
claims would be destroyed, and all the benefits to ·be derived from it would be
confined to a single organization.
During my term of office I have issued Dispensations for the establishment
of ten new Lodges, the names and 109ations of which will be found in the report of the Grand Secretary. They are all in good working condition, and
their members appear zealous and competent to perform all the duties enjoined
by the laws of the Craft. I recommend a careful examination of their work,
and if it meets the approbation of the Grand Lodge, that Charters be granted
·
them.
The difficulties which nt one time threatened the harmony of Iowa Hill
Lodge, No. 63, and Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74, have been settled, both having surrendered their Charters, and a portion of the members of both having
consolidated under a new Dispensation, with the name of Ionic Lodge.
The Dispensation under which Folsom Lodge was working has been given
up, and its members have affiliated with Natoma Lodge, No. 64, to which I
granted a dispensatior. to change its location from Mormon Island to the town
of Folsom-a place better adapted to sustain the Lodge in its course of use, fulness.
Upon petition from the members of Humboldt Lodge, No. 79, for a dispensation to remove their Lodge from Bucksport to Eureka, as being a place more
convenient for them, and better enabled to support the Lodge, I have granted
their request, and the Lodge is now working at the last named place.
Invited by the German Benevolent Society of San Francisco, with the assistance of the members of the Grand Lodge I laid the corner-stone of the
German Hospital in that city, iu accordance with ancient Masonic usage. The
kindness and consideration with which the Fraternity were treated on that
occasion, was strong evidence of the good repute in which it is held by those
without its membership. The prejudice which once trammeled its action is
fast sinking before its tread, and the hands and hearts of the good and true on
all sides are found cheerfully contributing to our prosperity and fEJ.me.
The Masonic Board of Relief, established something more than two years
ago by the several Lodges of the City of San Francisco, under a thorough
organization to administer to the distresses of those who are worthy and
needy, deserves our highest commendation for its active and efficient benevolence. The want of time, the cares of business, and the whirl of- pleasure,
often closes the hand which else would have been freely and cheer~ully opened
to minister to the wants of the destitute l\nd the unfortunate. In this board
of relief our brethren of San Francisco have avoided all those difficulties, RS
it is their business as well as plea.sure to give ear to all that apply, and as they
have full power to contribute to their needs and supply all their wants. The
great good which our San Francisco brethren have thus already done, is but
the guaranty for the boundless good for which the future will bless them.
Beyond the difficulties hereinbefore mentioned, our foreign intercourse, as
will appear by the report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, gives
a flattering exhibit of the harmony and prosperity of the 'Fraternity throughout the world. There has been no time in the history of Masonry when so
great an influence has been felt, or so large an amount of usefulness exhibited,
as at the present time. The shackles with which prejudice and ignorance have
hitherto bound it, unnerving, in a manner, its arm for extended good, and circumscribing its theatre of action, seem to have fallen at its feet ; nnd with
strength and vigor it is pressing forward in its path of duty to humanitywidening as human intelligence widens - spreadi'ng hand in hand with those
sciences which confer blessings upon mankind- and preparing tbe heart and
mind for a more noble appreciation of the sublimity of that justice and benevolence which it is confidently hoped will one day bind together the whole
' human family with indissoluble ties of friendship and affection.
Our Order, grand in its numbers and influence, will play a noble part in
this great scheme of universal brotherhood ; interpreting all languages, ac-

[14)

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

285

co~~ode.tiilg all cust~ms, acclim~ting all zones, conciliating all sects, whethe; livmg un~er despotic or republican rule, and everywhere performing its mission of charity and love. From every part of the civilized world has been
exte.nded the hand of brotherhood, and palm has pressed palm sealing the
mutual promise of harmonious action.
'
Our own Commonwealth, by the force of circumstances seems to have been
sele~ted as the pioneer in this holy work. Far away from 'the civilized world
unbiassed by the troubles or prejudices that control or vex it-uninfluenced
by _tho~e ~aily occurrences which brighten or cloud its sky, - rich in that
which IIlVites the hardy, energetic and adventurous from the whole earth but
for a temp?rary r~sidence among us-among the thousands that have 'been
scatter~d ~1ke gra1Us of gold, scarce thinking that there was another and a nobler mission than gathering the shining ore-they have found their way
through the J?Ortals of our ~emple, and kneeling side by side with us at ou;
alt~rs, have listened to their and our tradition in another tongue than that
which taught them first the light; have seen our charities and felt the benefit
of our benevolence; have watched our harmony; and blessed God that we were
here to welcome and befriend them in their hour of trial and of need. They have
left us to seek again .~heir own lands, beadng with them our God-speed on the
ear, and graven on their hearts our good offices. The asperities that parted them
rrom ~ s, born of national prejudices, have been dissolved by our friendships ; and
m their far homes, from the fullness.of their hearts, they will teach others to love
and revere us and the Order of which we are but humble members. Who can
!l'uess or. tell the extent of that vast influence exerted by those silent dee.ds of
fellow.ship and kindness which have be~n perfo~med by us, and received by
them , or meas~re the wealth of t~at k1Udl.l'. feeling a~akened in every land by
grateful and lovmg hearts. May it not be like the air which a spoken word
hath set in motion, undulating until the whole earth hath felt its passing
breath.
.
Bef~re closiD;g ~his address and retiring from the high position to which
your kmd partial.ity exalted me, I must be permitted to return my sincere
thanks for the k1Udness and good feeling which has ever been mariifested
~y ea.ch and all of you towar.ds me, in the discharge of the duties of my position. To the. Grand Se~retary especially, I nm deeply indebted for the prompt
and great assistance which he has rendered me.
In bidding you a f~rewell as your G;rand Master, my he~rt is filled with joy
at t~e_p;ospect of takm~ my place agam among you, she.rmg in your labors,
an.d JOmmg once more with you around that altar where the incense burns 80
brightly no;w. May that God who has so long guarded nnd protected our bel?ved Order, making its darkest night bright with His smiles of love and approbat10n, guard and guide us in the future as in the past, that the principles which
'~e pr.ofe~s may becon_ie an. universal rule f<lr man's action, and con~tant guide
for Ins hfe, thus fittlllg him, by their practice for that Grand convocation
where the good of the universe will meet to dw~ll in harmony forever.

N. GREENE CURTIS, Grand Mruter.

On motion of Bro. JAS. L. ENGLISH, the Address of the Grand
l\Iaster was referred to a special committee of five.
· The Deputy Grand l\Iaster named the following brethren as such
special committee ·

On the Grand Master's Address,......

.

[15)

Bro. Jas. L. English,
" W . .A. Januar;y,
" Wm. McCormick,
" Louis Cohn,

l

"

E. Lane.

236

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

The Grand Secretary presented .his Annual Report, as follows:To the JI.·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California:In accordance with a provision in the Constitution, the undersigned again
. .
.
presents the Annual Report required from the Grand Secretary.
Within thirty days after the close of the last Annual Commumcat10n, its
transactions were prepared for publication and issued from the press ; and the
usual number of copies (fifteen hundred) were distributed in the. cu.stomary
manner with the exception of five hundred reserved for future bmdmg, and
those r~quired for the use of the Grand Lodge at its present meeting. In obedience to an order passed at that Communication, three hupdred copies of the
proceedings of the years 1855 and 1856 have been bound m the same manner
as the volume containing the previous transactions of the Grand Lodge, before
published by the Grand Secretary, and specimens of the edition are herewith
presented, labelled Vol. II. It is rec~mmended that a s.imilar order be passed
for the binding of three hundred copies of the proceedmgs of 1857 and 1858,
which will make a third volume of about equal size with the two preceding.
The price of the second volume, thus bound, upon consultation with the Grand
Master was fixed at two dollars; and the number disposed of at tllat price, to
the end of the fiscal year, will appear in the financial statement herewith
appended.
A copy of Vol. I. of our p1~ceedings, being the republicati~n of ~ll the
transactions from the organization of the Grand Lodge to and mcludmg the
year 1854, prepared by the undersigned, has been forwarded to each of the
Grand Bodies with which this Grand Lodge holds correspondence, to our representative in the Grand Lodge of New York, and to Bro. ROBERT MORRIS, of
Kentucky; and as this has been done for the credit of the Grand Lodge, 8:s an
acknowledgment of similar courtesies received from some, and a testimonial of our wish to deserve them from others, it is hoped that an aprropriation will be made to cover the expense thus incurred by the Grand Secretary.
The usual publications have been received from ~ost. of the va;ious Mason~c
bodies with which this Grand Lodge holds commumcatlon, as will be seen m
another report; and sundry correspondence has bee)! had with t}:ie ~ra~d
Orients of France and Peru, and the Provincial Grand Lodge of Victoria, m
Australia copies and translations of which are here presented. The general
letter file' for the year is also exhibited, together with the letter-books, containing a miscellaneous correspondence of some six hundred pages.
On the twenty-ninth day of June last, the Charter of Lebanon Lodge, No.
49 was arrested by the Grand Master, its funds were placed in the hands of
th~ Grand Treasurer, and the Charter and seal of the 'Lodge, together w.ith i:ts
jewels, furniture, books, papers, and other property, "'.ere at once deposi~ed m
this office. By permission of the Grand Master, the Jewels and a P?rt10n .of
the furniture have been loaned to Fidelity Lodge, U. D., upon the receipt of its
Master, Bro. Lours CoHN, who was also the Master of the snspended Lodge
when ih labors ceased. They will be returned when the Grand Lodge shall
signify its will to that effect. The records of the Lodge are present for inspection.
.
.
.
On the twenty-ninth day of August, 1857, Wisconsi'! Hill Lodge, No'. 741
adopted a resolution to surrender its Charter; and early m October followmg,
that instrument, together with the seal, books, and papers of the Lodge w~re
transmitted to this office by its late Master, Bro. W111. C. RrcH, who was metructed to settle up its affairs in such manner as might seem. to hii;n most just
and expedient. An exhibit of his prompt and correct act10n will be seen
among the records of the Lodge now submitted.
.
On the twenty-ninth day of October, 1857, Iowa Hill L?d~e, ~o. 63, a.lso
adopted a resolution to surrender its Charter, and upon receiving mformat10n
thereof at the suggestion of sundr,y brethren at that place, Bro. H. C. LADD
was ap~ointed to wind up its affairs. This he has done in a very satisfactory

[16]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

237

manner, as will be seen from his report now presented with the records of the
Lodge, which, together with the Charter, seal, other books, papers, &c., were
transmitted to this office in March last.
Returns for these three Lodges to the date of their cessation from labor,
have been prepared from the records, and the amount of funds thus far received
from the two last will be found credited in the proper place. A large amount
of unpaid dues appear upon the books of all, especially upon those of Iowa
Hill Lodge ; and it is rec.ommended that some action be taken by the Grand
Lodge for the collection of these dues, and for the infliction of the same penalty upon all such delinquents, as is now incurred by those stricken from the
rolls of membership for non-payment.
Information has been received from the Secretary of Folsom Lodge, U. D.,
that on the twen.ty-eighth day of January. last, that Lodge had resolved to
cease work and yield up its Dispensation. As neither that instrument, nor any
books, papers, or property of the Lodge, have been transmitted to the undersigned, it is probably intended to present them at this Communication. The
Secretary's lett.er upon the subject accompanies this report.
At the last Communication, the Dispensation previously issued to Fol8om
Lodge, at Folsom, in the County of Sacramento, was continued; and, by order
of the Grand Lodge, a Dispensation was granted to Vallecito Lodge, at Vallecito, in the County of Calaveras. Since then the following Dispensations have
been issued by order of the Grand Master, viz : June 27, 1857.-To Clinton Lodge, at Horsetown, ......... Shasto. County.
July 11, "
" Fidelity
"
" San Francisco, .... S. Francisco "
" Ionic
"
" Iowa Hill,. .......... Placer
"
Octo. 19, "
Dec. 12, "
" Alamo
"
" Alamo, ............... Contra Costa"
'.'. 19, :: .
;; Sotoyomi ;;
" Healdsburgh, ...... Sonoma
'.'.
19,
Visalia
" Visalia, .............. Tulare
" 21, "
" Table Mt'n"
" Oroville, ............ Butte
"
Jan. 14, 1858.- " Progress "
" San I<'ro.ncisco,. ... S. Francisco "
Feb. 8, "
" LaFay~tte "
" AnnallyTownship,Sonoma
"
March 6, "
" Hermann "
" San Francisco,. ... S. Franci$CO "
The numbers of the chartered Lodges now reach to 117, and there are outstanding twelve Dispensations-making in all one hundred and twenty-nine
Lodges which have been established under the authority of this Grand Lodge,
besides the former Pacific Lodge, U. D., at Valparaiso. Of these, two have
withdrawn to aid in the formation of the Grand Lodge of Oregon, six have
surrendered their .Charters, one has been suspended, and one has ceased under
its Dispensation-leaving now in active existence, under the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of California, one hundred and eight chartered Lodges, and eleven
under dispensation.
.
'l'he registers and account books of the Grand Secretary's office, and var10us
files of officio.I papers, ure herewith submitted for examination, together with
an account of the revenue of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Treasurer's receipts
for its proper payment, and,a statement of the balances to the debit and credit
of the Lodges at the close of the fiscal year, ns follows : The (hand Secretarg in account with the Grand Lodge of California, for the fiscal
year ending March 41 A. L. 5858.
1857.
For receipts during the year, as follows:DR.
~fay 15. From sundry Lodges from March 4, 1857, to this date inclusive, as per report on page 122, et seq., Proc. of 1857, ..... $7163 00
" 18. " Polar Stai· Lodge, No. 90, on acct. dues to Mar. 4, 1857-,
32 00
" "
" Dibble
"
" 109, Ch'r fee and dues to l\fay 1, "
110 00
" "
" Sacramentn ,,·
" 40, dnes in full to l\Iar. 4,
"
45 00

Amount carried to next page, .................. $7350 00

3

[li]

238

. [May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Amount brought forwa.rd, ....................................... $7350 00
May 18. From North Star Lodge, No. 91 1 on acct. dues to Mar. 4 1 1857, 5'1 00
June 2. " La Grange
"
"
"
"
"
"
" 99 1 " "
80 00
Minneaota
"
" 67, bal. dues in full to" "
"
11 00
" 5. "
"
IndianI>igginga"
" 85, on acct. dues " " "
"
44 00
" 11.
Waahington
"
" 20, " "
"
" " 1856, 117 00
"" "" Concord
"
" 117, Char. fee without Disp., ...... 126 00
""
"
Clint01'I
"
U.
D.,
fee
for
Dispensation,...........
75 00
" 23.
Columbia
"
No. 28, bal. dues in full to l\Iar.4,1857, 9 00
" 24. "
Yolo
"
" 81, on acct. dues to " " "
24 00
July29. "
"
Loa Angela
"
" 42,·bal.dues in full to" " "
6 00
"
"
Aug.16. "
St. John's
"
" 37, "
" "
"
" " "
3 00
"
Fidelity
"
U.
D.,
fee
for
Dispensation,...........
7
5 00
" 20.
Naval
"
No. 87, bal.duesinfulltoMar. 4,1857, 26 50
" 27. "
Sep.29. "
San Joaquin "
" 191 "
2 00
"
"
"
"
"
"
Wiaconsin Hill"
" 74, upon surrender of Charter,... 48 00
Oct. 'I. "
"
I<>1'1ic
"
U.
D.,
fee
for
Dispensation,...........
75
00
" 9.
"
Mt. Hermon "
No. 94, bal. dues in full to Mar.4,1857, 3 00
" 9.
MountainShade"
" 18, "
"
"
"
"
"
11 00
" 14. "
IndianDiggings"
" 85, "
"
"
"
"
"
'I 00
" 18, "
Parfaite Union"
" 17, on acct. dues 1856 and 1857, 45 00
" 24. "
"
Ophir
"
" 33, bal. dues in full to Mar. 4 1 "
6 00
" 31.
Visalia
"
U. D., fee for Dispensation,........... 75 00
Nov. 3. "
Yolo
"
No. 81, bal. dues in full to Mar.4,1857 1 2 00
, " 14. "
Parfaite Unio11"
" 17, on acct. dues 1856 and 1867, 30 00
" 20. "
Wiaconsi11 Hill "
" 74, further amt. since surrender, 15 00
Dec. 5, "
"
Alamo
"
U. D., fee for Dispensation,........... '15 00
" 9.
Sotoyomi
"
U. D., " "
"
75 00
" 16. "
"
Table Mountain"
U. D. 1 " "
75 00
" 19. "
1858.
No. 591 bal. dues in full to Mar. 4,1857 1 4 00
Jan. 4. " Gravel Range "
"
U. D., fee for Dispensation, ......... .. 75 00
" 5. " Progresa
" No. 1031 bal. dues in full to Mar.4,1857, 2 00
" 15. " Oroville
16 50
" l'l, "
"
" "
" "
" 26. " Parfaite Union"
"
U. D., fee for Dispensation, ......... .. 75 00
Feb. -8. " La Fayette
Corinthian
"
No. 69, bal. dues in full to Mar. 41181'>7 1 1 00
" 10. "
20 00
"
" 46, "
"
"
"
"
"
" 17. " Texas
10 00
Mar. 1. " Hiram
"
" 43, "
"
"
"
"
"
7 00
"
"
"
"
"
"
Michigan
Oity
"
"
4'1
" 3.
1
" Union
8 00
"
"
58,
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
Fees for 143 Diplomas issued since March 4th, 1857,..... 143 00
" 4.
" Sale
78 copies of Vol. II., Proceedings of Grand Lodge, 156 00
" " " Sale of
1 set Morris' Universal Masonic Library at cost and
"
"
charges delivered here by express,. ....................... .. 63 00

"

"

Total receipts for the year, .... ~ ................... $9126 oo

RECAPITULATION.
Received on acct. dues to Mar. 4, 1857, and back dues, .................. $'1139 00
"
for Dispensations issued during the fiscal year,.................. 900 00
"
H Charters issued per order of the Grand Lodge,..............
726 00
"
" Diplomas and books, per above acct.,.................. ........ 362 00
Total from all sources, ............................. $9126 00

[18)

I

,

1858.]

239

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

185'1.
Ca.
May 16. By ca.ah paid Grand Treasurer, as reported this date, .. ...... $7163 00
Sept. 4. "
"
"
"
"
as per receipt,..................
838 50
Dec. 4. "
"
"
"
"
"
"
......... .........
304 00
1858.
820 50
"
Mar. 4. "
"

"

"

"

$9126 00
Stateme11t qf balanua to the debit and credit of Lo<J!.u, on the booM qf the Grand Secretary, March 4th, A. • 5858.

DR.

Tehama
Benicia
Nevada
Temple
Eureka
Waahington
Maripoaa
Trinuy
Santa Clara
San Diego
Butte
Illinoistowa
T"olcano
Santa ROiia
Live Oak
Iowa Hill
Morning Star
Nebraaka
T,qro
Wiaconain Hill
Bear Mountain
Humboldt
Polar Star
North Star
Henry Olay
J efferson
La Grange
Manzanita
Chico

Lodge, No.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"..
"

"

"
"
"
"

3, .......................... $113 00
5, . . . •••..••.••.•.•..•.•· ....
13, ...••.•.•• • ....•.. • •••....
14, ............... . ... .. . ... .
4 00
16, .••••..•.•••...•.•........
20, •..•....••••••••.... . ...•. 137 50
24, .......•.•••...••.•.....•.
27, • ..•.•.....•.............•
5 00
34, •••......•..••••••....•.••
2 00
35, .... ............... ... .....
36, .••••••.••••••••••..••....
51, ....•• . .. ... ••..••. . .... . .
56, .... . •.. ...• ••.•••. .. .... . '17 00
57, •••.••.••.•.••••.••...•••• 65 00
61,. .••.•...•.••...••••••.... 27 00
1 00
63, •••.••............. • •...•.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" 68, ......
" '11,
" '13,•.••.•••••.•....••••••...•
" 74, ..........................
......... . . .... ... . . ......
"
.. .•••..... •• ••.•..... . .. .
" 76,
•....•. . ......•.... . •. • ...
" 79,
90, ••..••••••.•.... •••••• ....
" 91,.
........... . ...... . .... ..
"
.....•••.•...•••••••••••••
" 95,
97,
•••••••••••••...••••••.•..
" 99, ...•••...••...•.••••.....•
f

•••••• •

••• '

••••••••

"
.•...••.•...••..•......•.•
" 102,
" 111, •.....••••••••• • .•• •. ..••.

Ca.
$3 00
1 00
2 00
2 00
2 00
1 50
3 00

1 00

55 50
1 00
50 25
1 00
5 00
2 00
12 00
2 00
3 00
78 00
3 00
13 00

$588 00 $84 75
Since the books were balanced, and the foregoing accounts prepared, Wa,,hington, San Diego, Volca110, Live Oak, Humboldt, and .folar Star Lodges have
paid up the balances respectively to their debit, amounting in all to $250 50 ;
and there has been received from Iowa Hill Lodge the sum of $92 60, being
the net amount thus far realized, after payment of its debts, from the collection of its dues and the sale of its effects. Before the close of the Communication, the usual supplementary account of all moneys received since the fourth
day of March last will be presented for examination, though it will as heretofore form a part of the report of the following year .
In conclusion, the undersigned expresses the pleasure he feels in announcing that every Lodge under t he jurisdiction transmitted full returns for the
year 1857, and that the three which were delinquent at the time of publication
the year before, soon after remedied the fault. The creditable manner in
which nearly all those papers are prepared by the various Secretaries, should
not escape the attention of the Committee on Returns. A great and constant

(19)

240

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

impr.ovement in this respect has been manifested during the past three years,
and now, instead of seeing very many of them informal, ill-spelled and illegible, thus rendering it impossible for the Grand Secretary to publish correctly
the lists of membership, there will be found but two or three which are not
well written and properly prepared.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ABELL, Grand Secretary.

Which report was received, and, with the accompanying books and
papers, was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
The Grand Treasurer presented his Annual Report as follo~s : The Grand Treasui·er in account with the Grand Lodge ~f California, for the fiscal
year ending JJ[arch 4, A. L. 5858.

1857.
March 4.
Mav 13.
,; 16.
Sept. 4.
Dec. 4.
1858.
March 4.

RECEIPTS.
Dn.
Balance in treasury as per account this date, .................. $1751 83
Cash received from the Grand Secretary, ........................ 2804 00
"
"
"
"
"
....................... 4359 00
"
"
"
"
"
.... ... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 838 50
"
"
".
"
"
. . . . ... .. .... .. .. .. .. .. 304 00

"

"

"

"

"

820 50

$10877 83
DISB.URSEMENTS.
Ca.
For account of salariu of Grand Officers;
Paid Grand Secretary, as per vouchers Noe. 13, 26, 38, 48, $2400 00
" Asst. Gre.nd Sec'y, "
"
Nos. 19, 29, 40 1 49 1 400 00
" Grand Tree.surer, "
"
No. 51 1 ......... ......
100 00
" Gre.nd Tyler,
"
"
No. 2, ........... ......
100 00 $3000 00
For account of printing and expenses of Grand Secretary's office:
Paid for printing e.nd binding Grand Lodge proceedings of
1857, as per vouchers Nos. 6, 17, 21, 24, 30, $1300 00
" " Sundry printing, e.s per vouchers Nos. 20, 25, 32,
192 oO
" " Rent of Gre.nd Secrete.ry's office, as per vouchers
Nos. 11, 15, 27, 39, 45, 46, 47, ......... ...........
600 00
" " Expenses of Gre.nd Sec'y's office, as per vouchers
Nos. 14, 28, 41, 42, 50,......... ......... ...... ......
763 41 $2855 91
For account of ezpenaea of Grand Officers and of Grand Master's office:
Paid W. H. Howard, G. JJI,, exp. e.tt'g G.L., as ;ier vouch., No. 3,$60 00
" J.A.Raymond,D.G.JJI.," "
"
"
"
" 11100 00
" P. W. Randle, J.G. W., " "
"
"
"
"52, 45 00
" A. Martin, G. Treas.,
" "
"
"
"
"53 1 31 50
" A . G. Abell, G. Sec'y, " "
"
"
"
" 8, 51 oo
" L. C. Owen, Aast. G. S., " "
•"
"
"
" 91 51 00
" Incidental expenses during session
"
"
"10, 59 50
" Sundry expensesofGrandMaster's office, "
"
"18 1 27 00 $425 00
For account of special appropriationa, per resolutions :
Pe.id Gre.nd Sec. be.l. salary le.st year, e.s per vouch.,No. 5,. ..... $283 34
" For binding Vol. II. G. L. proc., "
" Nos. 38 1 36, 245 00 $528 34
1857-8.

Amount ce.rried to next page,... , ............................ $6809 00

[20]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

241

Amount brought forward,. ...................................... $6809 25
For account <if the Library :
Paid for sundry books purche.sed, as pe·r voucher No. 12,. ... $ 78 56
" Cost and freight of Universal Me.sonic Library, 2 copies, as per vouchers Nos. 16, 44, .................. 121 00
" For binding Proceedings of other Grand Lodges, as per
213 06
voucher No. 43 1 ......... ......... ......... .......... ..... 13 50
For account Qf the General Fund :
Refunded to Folsom Lodge, U. D., amt. Charter fee, (Char.
not issued,) e.s per voucher No. 4,................. $ 50 00
To petitioners at Mee.dow Ve.Hey, e.mt. Dispense."
tion fee, (Disp. not issued,) e.s per voucher No. 22, 75 00
Paid for 11dd'l Clothing, Pe.rchment, &c., as per voucher No. '1, 120 50
" Bill of Sacre.mento Lodges, for expenses of Grand
Lodge, as per voucher No. 23 1........... ...... ...... 78 75
" For Chests, &c., for hooks and archives of Grand Lodge,
as per vouchers Nos. 31, 34,. ..... : ................. . 96 00
" For printing Diplomas from plate, as per voucher No.3 7, 60 00
486 25
6 00
" For Acc't Books for Grand Treas., as per voucher No.54,
For account of the Masonic Hall Fund :
2000 00
Paid to the Trustees of the fund, as per voucher No. 35,. ............ .
Total amount of disbursements to March 4, 1858,..............

$9508 56

Lee.ving a be.lance in the treasury on the.t de.te, of............. $1369 2'7
A dete.iled account of the disbursements is herewith presented, with the
vouchers therefor from Nos. 1 to '54, inclusive, as are e.lso the books in which
the e.cco nnts are kept.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ADDISON MARTIN, Grand Treasurer.

Which report was received, and, with the accompanying books and
vouchers, was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
The Grand Secretary presented . the following report in regard to
the Library : To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California :The Grand Secrete.ry, in his co.po.city of Libre.rie.n of the Gre.nd Lodge, reports the following books, e.ll well e.nd he.ndsomely bound, e.s now upon the
s helves of the Library, viz. : Universe.L Masonic Libre.ry, t1dited by Robert Morris, 8vo., Lexington, Ky. 1 1856,. ..................................................................... 36 vols.
Lectures on Freeme.sonry, compiled by Geo. Crook, 8vo., London, 1850, 1 "
Sermons on Freeme.sonry, by the Rev. John E. Cox e.nd others, 8vo.,
London, 1852, .. ........................................................... , .. . .. . . .. 1 "
Proofs of a Conspire.cy, collected by J ohn·Robinson, 8vo., London, 1 798, 1 "
Ano.logy of Ancient Craft Me.sonry to Ne.tural e.nd Reven.led Religion,
by Charles Scott, Bvo., Philadelphia, 1850,: ......... ........................ 1 "
Outlines of the Temple, by Cornelius Moore, 12mo., Cincinne.ti, 1853, .• 1 "
Principles of Me.sonic Law, by Albert G. Me.ckey, 8vo., New York, 1856, 1 "
History of Freeme.sonry, by James 0. He.Howell, 8vo., London, 1844,. .. 1 "
Stray Lee.ves from a Freemason's Note-book, bye. Suffolk Rector, 8vo.,
London, 1846, ........... ..................... .". .. .. ... . .. ... ... . ..... ... . .. ... . . .... 1 "
Symbol of Glory, by Geo. Oliver, 8vo., Landen, 1850, ........... ............ 1 "

[21]

242

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

243

Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of N. Hampshire, 1843 to 1853, incl., 8vo., 1 vol.
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of N. Carolina, 1847 to 1852, incl., 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of New Yark, 1849 to 1855, incl., 8vo., 2 "
Proceedingis of the Grand Lodge of Ohio, 1808 to 1847, incl., 8vo., ...... 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of S. Carolina, 11!51to1856, incl., 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings l?f the Grand Lodge of Vermont, 1846 to 1855, incl., 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Chapter of California, 1854 to 1857, incl., 8vo., 1 "

Signs and SymJ:vils, by Geo. Oliver, 8vo., London, 1837, ................... . 1 vol.
History of Initiation, by Geo. Oliver, 8vo., London, 1841,. ............... .. 1 "
Antiquities of Freemasonry, by Geo. Oliver, 8vo., London, 1843, ........ . 1 "
Historical Landmarks of Freemasonry, by Geo. Oliver, 8vo. London, 1846, 2 "
History of the Royal Atch, and other works, by Geo. Oliver, 8vo., London, 1847, ............................................................................ 1 "
Dictionary of Symbolic Masonry, by Geo. Oliver, 12mo. London,. ....... 1 "
Book of the Lodge, by Geo. Oliver, 12mo., London, 1849,. ................. 1 "
Mirror for the Johannite Masons, by Geo. Oliver, 12mo., London, 1848, 1 "
Star in the East, by Geo. Oliver, 12mo., London, 1842, •..... .. .... ......... 1 "
Illustrations of Masonry, by Wm. Preston, w.ith notes by Geo. Oliver,
12mo., London,. ........... ........................................................ .
"
Spirit of Masonry, by Wm. Hutchinson, with notes by Geo. Oliver, 12mo.,
London, 1843,. ........ ... ............ . .... ..... ................. .....................
"
Remo.ins of the early Masonic Writers, Calcott, Smith, Inwood, Anderson, Harris, and others, with notes by Geo. Oliver, 12mo., London,
"
1850, ................................................................................... 5
Masonic M1r.nual, by Jonathan Ashe, with notes by Geo. Oliver, 12mo.,
"
London, 1843, ............................... .... .................................... 1
.Freemason's Library, compiled by Samuel Cole, 8vo., Baltimore, 1817, 1 "
Ahiman Rezon, compiled for the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, 8vo.,
"
Philadelphia, 1825,. ........ .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . ... ...... ... .. . ... .. .. .. .. .... .. .... 1
Freemason's Manual, compiled by K. J. Stewart, 12mo., Phil., 1854,. .. 1 "
True Masonic Guide, compiled by Robert Macoy, 12mo. New York,. ..... 1 "
Masonic Text Book, compiled by John Dove, 8vo., Richmond, 1847,. .... 1 "
Masonic Chart, compiled by Jeremy L. Cross, 8vo., New York, 1853, .... 1 "
Freemason's Monitor, compiled by Z. A. Davis, 8vo., Philadelphia, 1853, 1 "
Masonic Trestle Board, compiled by Chas. W..Moore, 8vo., Boston, 1856, 1 "
Freemason's Quarterly Review, from 1834 to 1852, inclusive, 8vo.,
London, .. ... ................... .. ...... .... .. ... ...... . .............................. 19 "
Freemasons' Quarterly Magazine, 1853, a continuation of the Review,
8vo., London,..................... .. .. . . .. . ... ...... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. . . .. 1 "
Freemasons' Monthly Magazine, from 1842 to 1857, inclusive, edited by
Charles W. Moore, 8vo., Boston,. ............................................... 16 "
Masonic Review, (monthly), from 1846 to 1857, inclusive, edited by
Cornelius Moore, 8vo., Cincinnati, ............................................. 17 "
Masonic Union, (monthly), from 1850 to 1854, inclusive, edited by Finlay M. King, 8vo., Port Byron, N. Y., ... ...................................... 4 · "
The Temple, (monthly), from 1851 to 1853, inclusive, edited by Parke
and Blumenthal, 8vo., Carlisle, Pa.,......... ..... .... .. .... ... . .. ... ... ...... 2 "
Signet and Journal, (monthly), 1855 and 1856, edited by Samuel Lawrence, 8vo., Marietta, Ga.,.......... ...... ... ... ...... .. .... ... .... .. ... ... ...... 2 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Alabama, 1848 to 1853, incl., 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Arkansas, 1851 to 1855, incl. , 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California, 1850 to 1856, incl., 8vo., 2 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Cal., 1850 to 1854, incl., 8vo.,( old ed.), 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut, 1851 to 1856, incl., 8vo., 2 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Dist. of Col., 1845 to 1854, incl., 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Florida, 1850 to 1857, incl., 8vo., ...... 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Georgia, 1849 to 1856, incl., 8vo.,. ..... 2 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Indiana, 1850 to 1854, incl., 8vo.,.. .... 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Io~, 1851 to 1855, incl., 8vo.,. ..... 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky, 1851 to 1857, incl., 8vo., 3 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana, 1852 to 1857, incl., 8vo., 2 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Maine, 1852 to 1856, incl., 8vo.,...... 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Michigan, 1848 to 1855, incl., 8vo., 1 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Mississippi, 1840 to 1856, incl., 8v1>., 5 "
Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Missouri, 1854 to 1857, incl., 8vo., ... 1 "

Being in all, now on hand and bound, .................. 160 vols.
During the past three years the undersigned has exerted every effort to procure a complete series of the published transactions of the various American
Grand Lodges, as far back as they were to be found consecutively in print ·
and he takes this occasion to acknowledge the courtesy of the several Grand
Secretaries who have enabled him thus far to present the thirty-three large
volumes of valuable Masonic history above enumerated. A great number of
incomplete series of such proceedings still remain unbound, but it is believed
that during the ensuing year, most of the missing publications, as far be.ck as
the average of those now given, will be received, and it is probable that fifteen
or twenty more similar volumes can be presented at the next Communication.
As an earnest of our own willingness to reciprocate the courtesies here acknowledged and hoped for, the undersigned, in October le.st, transmitted to the
Grand Secretary of each Grand Lodge in the United States, and to severe.I foreign Grand Bodies, a copy of the republication of the proceedings of this Grand
Lodge from 1850 to 1854, inclusive, as prepared by him under the resolution
adopted in May, 1856.
By reference to the report on the Library me.de in 1855 1 it will be seen that
there were then but seventy-three volumes (excluding duplicates) in our possession. That number is now more than doubled, and it is the hope, as it
will be the constant effort of the undersigned, to make our collection of Masonic works, within a few years, the largest and most valuable on the Western
Continent. Among other books received during the past year, 11.re the thirty
volumes of Bro. RosERT MORRIS' valuable publication-the Universal Masonic
Library-which, though including many works already in the possession of the
Grand Lodge, yet contains many of importance not previously upon our
shelves. Two sets of this work were purchased, as ordered by the Grand
Lodge, but tho undersigned, knowing of no use for duplicates in the library
has disposed of one for the cost and expenses, as will appear in the fine.nciai
report of the Grand Secretary. It is strongly recommended as a most valuable
collection of' the writings of many of the best Masonic authors, which every
Lodge in the State ought to possess. A complete set of the " Me.sonic Review" has been obtained; the additional volumes of the" Freemason's Monthly
Magazine" have been bound, as have also sundry volumes of the " Temple,"
the "Masonic Union," and the " Signet and Journal" ; and severe.I other books
have been added, as will be seen in the foregoing cat11.logue.
For the disbursements made on these occasions, reference is me.de to the
orders upon the Grand Treasurer and his report; and it is recommended to
the Grand Loffge that a further appropriation be me.de for additions to the
Library during the coming year.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ABELL, Grand Secretary.

[22J

(23]

Which report was received, and ordered to be published with the
proceedings.
The Grand Secretary also presented the following report of the
Masonic Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco, to its constituent Lodges : -

'\

244

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

1b the Lodgea in the City of San Francisco :The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco submits this, its
second Annual Report, to the constituent Lodges of which it is the represent.a..
tive with the hope that the manner in which the duties for which it was created
hav~ been discharged during the past year, may meet the approbation of those
whose charitable foresight called it into existence. In the compact between the
Lodges which established this Board, it was provided that semi-annual r~rts •
should be made to them, and during the year 1856, this requisition was complied
with.. The absolute inability, however, on the part of the officers of the Board,
to give the time necessary for the preparation of the lengthy statistical tables
which accompany this report, and which are required by the languag~ of the
compact, twice within the year, prevented the appearance of a rep?rt m July:
and it is now respectfully suggested th~t for all use.ful purposes a full and detailed report at the close of each year is amply sufficient.
With this day terminates the second year of the existence of the .Board of
Relief and had there been any doubts in the beginning in regard to the utility of
such ~n organization, all would now be dissipated by the practical results which
two years' experience of its beneficial workings have presented. At the date of
the last Annual Report six Lodges, viz.: California, No. l,Parfaite Union, No. 17,
Occidental, No. 22, Golden Gate, No, 30, ¥uunt Moriah, No. 44, and Lebanoo, No. 49,
were parties to the compact. Two others have since been added, while the last
named ho.s ceased its membership, its Charter having been arrested by the Grand
Master on the twenty-ninth day of June lo.st. At the commencement ~f .the
present year San Francisco Lodge, N.o. !, became a member o~ the Assoc1atio.n,
and on the sixth day of August, Fidelity Lodge, U. D., gave its o.ssent to the
compac.t : these, with those before na,!11ed, comprising all the Lodges in the city.
At the first meeting of the Board Ill J annary lo.st, Bro. ALEX. G. ABELL, W. M.
of No. 1 was reelected as Chairman, Bro. A. G. RANDALL, W. M. of No. 22, was
reiilected as Treasurer, and Bro. L. C. OWEN, W. M. of No. 30, was reelected as
Secretary, the other members being Bro. A. HoLLUB, W. M. of No. 7, Bro. F. T.
TECLAW, W. M. of No. 17, Bro. P. W. SHEPHEARD, W. M. of No. 44, and Bro.
Lours CoHN, W. M. of No. 49. The regular meetings of the Board are held on
Thursday of every week, and special meetings are called by the Chairman whenever it is deemed necessary. A reference to the last report will sufficiently explain its mode of action, and will exhibit the sources whence its revenue is derived. From these during the po.st year, the receipts have been o.s follow~:From asseaements upon the Lodgea :
Califomia, •...•.•.• • No. I, ..... . ...•....... . .. ... $537 45
San Francisco . • • • • • . " 7,...................... . 237 35
Parfaite Union.. • • .. • " 17,. .. . ............... ·.. .. 000 00
Occidental, .......... " 22,.......... .. .. .. . .. .. . 164 50
Golden Gate .. . •..•.• " 30,.' · · · • · ...............• 421 00
Mount Moriah,... . • • • " 44, .................... . . . 262 20
I.Jebanon •.•••....... " 49, .. . ................... . 191 50
91 50
$1906 :io
Jildelilf/,. ..•••.••. .. U. D., ........ \ ...... •.. ... . .
From Donations :
Contributed hy Bro. H: A. Cobb, to aid in paying passage
of a brother to New Orleans,...... . . . • ........... $ 10 00
Contributed by Bro. J. W. Tucker, for the ~ame purpose, .
10 00
Contributed by San Francisco Chapter, No. 1, R. A. M., for
20 ()()
the same purpose, . . ... . . . .............. ... . . • .. ..
:) ()()
Returned by Bro. William Cox, .. . .................... .
30 12
~undry subscriptions to aid Bro. T. Haley, .•.... . .......
Net proceeds of Promenade Concert given by the Board
of Relief,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1926 50
$2051 G2
Donated by Bro. J. W. Tucker,.......... . . . . .. . . . . .. . .
50 00
'fhe balance on hand as per last report on the 31st clay of
892 75
December, 1856, was, ......... ...... . •.. . .. . . .... .
Making a tot.al to the crerlit of the fund of.. .. .

[24]

$4850 67

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALI.ll'ORNIA.

245

. Ag!Lin during this year the Board has been compelled to exercise the power
given 1t to levy an extra assessment upon the Lo<jges. In the early part of the
present !110nth, its funds had so diminished as to be unequal to the applicationei'
for charity presented, and an extra contribution of twenty-five cents per member
was .called to~ from th.e Lodges, which is included in the foregoing statemeni of
re~eipts. Tb1~ depletion of !he :tr~asury was soon afterward more fully remed1~d by the hberal manner m which the Concert given by the Board was patromzed by the Fraternity and the public.
. The usual tabular statement accompanies this report showing in detail in
flccordance with the sixth Article of the CompMt, the nan:.es ofall to whom r~lief
has been afforded, the dates when given the residence of the recipients, the
Lodges of which they (or their husbands ' and fathers) last were members the
amounts ?onated, and the reasons for the donation. From this it will be ~een
that the d1sbureements during the twelve months po.st have been as follows:-

~:?r the reli~f of sick, needy and destitute brethren, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $855 25

The relief of the wives, widows and children of hrethren
1249 oo
" Pa~ges p~id in various directions for destitute breth~e~; 'th~i~
" F wives, widows and orphans,. . ... . .... . ....... ... ... .. .. .. .. 515 00
uneral expenses of deceased brethren,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 147 oo

.Ma~ing the whole amount expended for charity, .. .. ........ .. . $276(; 25
To which 1s to be added for blanks, stationery, &c.,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34 00
Being a total expenditure of. . . . ....... . .. .... ....... . . . . ... $2800 25
The foregoing sum of $2766 :!5 has been distributed as follows::,o ~ c~~es f~om Au~tral!a, . . . $50 00
Amount brought forward,. $1901 25
36
· Cahforma, . . . 849 25 To 3 cases from Maine, . . . . . . . 138 00
" 1 "
" Delaware, . . .
5 00 " 6 "
" Maryland,. . . . 125 00
" 2 "
" England, . . . . 100 00 " 2 "
" MassMhusetts 50 00
"rn "
" Fr~nr:e,. ..... 467 00 " 1 "
Missouri, ... . : 10 00
" 1 "
lllmo1s,... .. .
2.0 00 "18 "
" New York,. . .. 362 oo
" 1 "
" Irel~n.d,.. . . . .
25 00 " 1 "
" Ohio, . . . . . . . . 20 00
"14 "
Loms1ana, . . . 385 00 " 1 "
" Pennsylvania,. 15 00
--- " 7 "
" · South Carolina, 145 00
Amount carried forward,. $1901 25
112 applications for relief,. . .. . . ... ... ... . . ... .. .... $27 66 25

RECAPITULATION.
Amount in the treasury Jan. 1, 1857, ... .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . $892 75
Received from the Lodges during the year,..... . . . . . . . . . 1906 30
Received from donations during the year,. . . . .... .. . . . .. 2051 62
Amount expended for charity during the year,. .... ...... $2766 25
Amount expended for stationery,. . . ... .. ... ... .. ......
34 00

$4850 67
2800 25

----

Leaving 11 balance in the treasury on the 31st day of Dec'r, l8j7, of $2050 42
The following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the Board
during the two yrars of its existence:-

Receipts.
Year.

From the Lodges.

1856.
1857.

From Donation~.

$1928 25
1906 30.

Tot&!.

$1484 00
2051 62

$3412 25
3957 92

4

$3834 55

L25J

$3535 62

----

$7370 17

246

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Year.

Of other Blanko and
Widow• & Orphan•
Maoons of
Of other
ofCalifornia.
Jurhdlctions. Stationery.
California. JuriBdlctlons.

1856.
1857.

$113 00 $1297 00
550 25
730 00

[May,

1858.]

Total.

Los Angelts, ..... No. 42, •••... H. N . .ALEXANDER, Worshipful Master.
r -L
{II. J. LABATT, Junior Warden;
uwanon, ......... No. 49,... JoRN F. DAl!ON, Past Master.

J!)xpendituru.

$20 00
299 00

$1054 50
1187 00

$35 00
34 00

$2519 50
2800 25

$5319 75
$2241 50
$69 00
$319 00
$663 25 $2027 00
In conclusion the Board again acknowledges the liberal_ity "111'.hich has been
evinced by the Pacific Mail Steamship Company, and the Cahfo;ma S~~am N11;vigation Company, in the transportation of poor brethren, or their families, at its
request.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
By order of the Board, Dec. 31, A. L. 5858.
.
ALEX. G. ABELL, Chairman.
L. c. OWEN, SeJ;re.tary.

Which report was received and laid on the table.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock, to-morrow
morning.

Jn ~ranb 1!obgc.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Wednesday, May 12th, .A. L . 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
yesterday were read and approved.
Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the Committee on Credentials, reported .the following additional members as present and entitled to seats,
viz.: from
Western Star,. . ...No. 2, ......J. !sues, proxy for Junior Warden.
1.'ehama, ............ No. 3, ......JoRN F. MoRSE, Past Master.
SanJoaquin,. .... No. 19, .....• A. G. BRows, proxy for WorRhipful Master.
Occidental, ... ....No. 22, ......JAS. LAIDLEY, Junior Warden.
El Dorado, ......No. 26,. ..... F. H. HARl!ON, Junior Warden.
Gol<len Gate, ....No. 30, ......HENRY J. MORTON, Senior Warden.
lrfokelumne, .. •...No. 31, ..••••J. L. WILKINS, Worshipful Master and P. M.

Sacramento, ......No. 40, ...... W11. H. HILL, Senior Warden.
(26]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

247

Forbestown, ......No. 50, ..... .R. C. GASKILL, Representative.
Natoma, ..........No. 64, ...... H.· N. II. BaowN, Junior Warden.
Amador,. .........No. 65, ...... 0. D . .AVELINE, proxy for Worshipful Master.
Eden, .......... .. No. 113, ...... P. E. EDMONDSON, Worshipful Master and P. M.

Which report was received and concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
Bro. J AS. L . ENGLISH, from the committee t o whom was referred
the Grand Master's Address, presented the followi~g report: To the .M. •. lV. ·. Grand Lodge of California:Your committee to whom was referred the Address of the .M.·. l-V.·. Grand
blaster, have had the same under consideration and recommend the following
disposition of such portions thereof as require the action of this Grand Lodge:
We recommend that so much of said Address as refers to the refusal of
the Grand Master to grant dispensations for the conferring the degrees
upon applicants in less time than that provided by the Constitution; to his
refusal to grant dispensations to re-ballot for persons rejected, within the time
prescribed by the Constitution; to the circular issued by authority of tho
Grand Lodge of the State of Maine containing a resolution urging the formation of a General Grand Lodge of the United· States to meet in September,
1859; to the continuance of the difficulties which still surround and embarrass
our brethren of Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21; to a thorough revision of the Standing Resolutions; and to a repeal of the resolution permitting the subordinate
Lodges to ballot for the three degrees at the same t ime, be referred to the
Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence :
That so much of said Address as refers to the work of the subordinate
Lodges, and recommends that t he work heretofore sanctioned by this Grand
Lodge be fully exemplified at this Communication, be referred to the Committee on Work.:
That so much of said Address as refers to the issuing of Dispensations to
new Lodges, and recommends that Charters be granted them, be referred to
the Committee on Dispensations and Charters :
That so much of said Address as refers to the arrest of the Charter of
L ebanon Lodge, No. 49 ; to the suspension of an offending member of said
Lodge from all the rlghte and privileges of Masonry ; and to his being summoned to appear ·and take his trial before this Grand Lodge, be referred to a
special committee of five :
That so much of said Address as refers to the communication from the
Grand Orient of .France, expressive of its wish to establish more intimate relations with this Grand Lodge, be referred to _J special committee of three :
That so much of said Address as refers to the communication from the
Lodge "Clemente Amitie," at Paris, in France, soliciting aid in the benevolent
undertaking, by them begun, of establishing an Orphan Asylum, be referred
to a special committee of three :
That so much of said Address as refers to the Grand Lodge of Virginia,
asking the co-operation of the Grand Lodge of California in raising funds for
the purchase of Mount Vernon, be referred to a special committee of three:
And that so much of said Address as refers to the communication from the
Grand Master of Masons in Peru, giving information of the insubordination and

(27]

•

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

248

[May,

expulsio11 l'>y the Grand Orient of that Republic, of two Lodges under its jurisdiction, for unmasonic conduct; to the address from the seceding Lodges, announcing the establishment of an organization independent of the Grand
Orient of Peru ; and to the pamphlet containing their defence for so doing ; be
referred to the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, with instructions to
ascertain all the facts connected with or b~aring upon the subject, and to report at the next Communication of this Grand Lodge.
Your Committee approve of the action of the .Grand Master in issuing,
immediately upon the receipt of the communication from the Grand Master
of Peru, notices to the Lodges within the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge,
acquainting them with the facts, and prohibiting any intercourse with the rebellious Lodges or their members. No matter what the circumstances may
have been which led to the insubordination, he could not have acted otherwise,
consistently with Masonic law, until · the facts had been investigated by the
Prand Lodge, and other action recommended.
Your committee t(l.ke p-eat pleasure in saying that they regard the Address
itself as a model, and commend it to the careful attention and consideration
of the Brethren.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAs. L. ENOLISH 1 }
WM. A. JANUARY,
WM. McCORMICK,
:i:.,ouis COHN,

Committee.

1858.]

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

249

Bro. Wm. H. Howard,
" J. R. Crandall,
On Masonic Jurisprudence :.... ... ....... .
" A. Hollub,
· .
{ " Thos. H. Willie.ms,
" Wm. S. Wells.
Bro. John A. Tutt,
" J. A. Raymond,
On Education: .............. ......... ........
J. A. Jackson,
" W. W. Traylor,
" Darwin Chase.
Bro. H.F. Williams.
" E.W. Potier,
On By-Laws of Lodges:...................
" J. T. Higbee,
{ " Geo. H. Cartter,
" D. C. Stone.
Bro. L. C. Owen,
" J . B. Hewson,
On Returns of Lodges: ............. .......
" A. T. Nelson,
{ " Wm. D. Newton,
" Arthur E. Waits.

fl "

E. LANE,

Which report was rec~ived and concurred in.
The Grand Master announced the following Standing Committees:Bro. Jas. L. English,
" Charles Raish,
On Grierances:..............................
" E.W. Roberts,
{ " L. Bates,
" A. L. Morrison.
.

{ Bro. Lewis Reynolds,
" Jas. W. Bicknell,
()it Unji.n~hedBusiness :..................
" Gilbert Lanphier,
" H. J. Bradley,
1
'
Jonathan Green,
Bro. John F. Morse,
" E. Lane,
On F fna nce and AccountB: .. . . ... . .. .. ...
" J. B. Carter,
{ " J. W. Brown,
·
" H. C. Harrison.

·i

Bro. Thos. P. Hawley,
" J . W. Harville,
On Dispe~ations i;in4 Charters:...... ...
" M. P. H . Love,
·
" W. A. January,
L " R. B. Moyes.
Bro. Isaac Davi~,
,
" E. Bogardus,
On Work:.................... .................
" P. W. Shepheard,
·
" Wm. McKean,
l " W. G. West.
[281

j

On motion of Bro. P. W. SHEPHEARD, the report of the Masonic
Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco, presented yesterday, was
taken from the table, and ordered to be printed with the proceedings.
The Grand Secretary presented a transcript of the proceedings of
California Lodge, No. 1, in the case of O. J. PRESTON; suspended by
that Lodge on the fifth day of December, 1857;
Also, a, transcript of the proceedings of the same Lodge in the case
of C. :F'. BRAINERD, expelled by that Lodge on the twenty-eighth day
of November, 1857; . with the appeal of Bro. WM. REYNOLDS and
others, members of that Lodge, from said action ;
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Howard Lodge, No. 96, in
the case of J. P. EMERY, expelled by that Lodge on the twenty-fifth
day of January, 1858;
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of the same Lodge in the case
J. M. S. CooK, expelled by that Lodge on the twenty-third day of
April, 1858 ;
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Western Star Lodge, No. ·
2, in the case of CHAS. B. UHL, suspended by that Lodge on the
twenty-fifth day of March, 1858, and his appeal therefrom ;
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Bear. Mountain Lodge,
No. 76, in the case of PETER A. WILLIAMS, expelled by that Lodge
on the eighth day of July, 1857;
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30,
[29)

•

250

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

in the cas13 of CHARLES CLARK, expelled by that Lodge on the
twentieth day of April, 1858;
Also, an appeal of B. F. FISK, from the action of Humboldt I ..odge1
No. 79, by which he was suspended on the fifth day of November, 1857;
Also, the appeal of Bro J. N. HUME, of the same Lodge, from its
action in that case, for not inflicting the penalty of expulsion on said
FISK;
. Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Minnesota J,odge, No. 67,
in the case of G. A. WILSON, suspended by that· Lodge on the nineteenth day of April, 1858;
Also, a transcript of the proceedings of Mountain Forest Lodge,
No. 75, in the case of D. HARDY1 suspended by that Lodge on the
twenty-eighth day of March, 1858;
Also, sundry notices of expulsions and suspensions by other Lodges;
in which cases transcripts of the proceedings have not been presented ;
All which were received and referred to the Committee on Griev.
'
ances.
The Grand Secretary also presented the appeal of A. II. RosE from
the action of Henry Olay Lodge, No. 95, by which he was suspended
for the non-payment of a certain assessment levied by that Lodge;
which was referred to a special committee of three.
The Grand Master announced the following brethren as such committee -

On tlte .Appeal of .A.H. Rose: ........ ..

Jl Bro." .J.Wm:R. II.Crandall,
Howard,
"

A. Hollub.

The Grand Secretary presented the petitions, Dispensations, books
and records of the several Lodges under dispensation, which were referred to the Committee on Dispensations and Charters.
.lie also presented the By-Laws of those Lodges, which were referred to the Committee on, By-Laws.
He also presented the books, papers, &c. 1 <Jf Iowa Hi!ll Lodge, No.
63, and Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74, both which LodgeA had sur·
rendered their Charters; and those of FolsornLodge, U. D., which had
ceased work under its Dispensation : all which were referred to the
Committee on Finance and Accounts.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock, this afternoon.

[30]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

251

Jn @;ran~ Jtohge.
AFTERNOON SESSION,
}
Wednesday, May 12th, .A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
Past Grand Master WM. H. HowARD presented the credentials of
Bro. JOHN S. GRAHAM, as the Representative of the Provincial Grand
Lodge of New South Wales near the Grand Lodge of California ;
whereupon Bro. GRAHAM was introduced, and received with due honors in that capacity.
The Grand Master announced the following special committees in
accordance with the recommendations presented in the report of the
committee upon his Address : -

On the communication from the Grand Orient {Bro. H. H. Hartley,
of France :
" R. C. Gaskill,
·• C. A. Hathwell.
On the communica.t~ from t.he Lodge Olemente { ~~0 • ~:
~h:reard,
.Amiti~, at Paris :
" G W ~y k"
. . Hop ms,
On the communication from the Grand Lodge {Bro. A. Martin,
of Virginia, relative to the purchase of .Mt. . ;; H. A. H~gl.ey,
Vernon:
H. F. Williams.
Bro. Chas. Marsh,
On the suspension of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49, and f ::
lfarard,
1
of Joseph Mayer:
L. C. Vmgieyl,
. . an Allen,
" I. N. Barnes. .

}ri.·

l " j·

The Grand Secretary presented a letter from the R.·. W.·. JAB. W.
PowELL1 accepting the appointment of Representative of this Grand
Lodge near the Grand Lodge of New York; which was read and ordered to be placed on file.
He also presented a letter from the W. ·. JAMES W. CLAIBORNE,
Grand Orator, regretting that his absence from the State will prevent
him from the performance of the duties of his office; which was read
and ordered to be placed on file.
He also presented a memorial from El D orado Lodge, No. 26, relative to the proposed change of name of WM. JOHNSON, one of its

[31]

252

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

1858.]

members, which was received and referred to the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.
He also presented a petition from sundry brethren residing at and
near Nicolaus, in Sutter County, praying for a Charter to establiRh a
new Lodge at that place; which was referred to the Committee on
Dispensatio~s and Charters.
·
. He also presented a memorial from Bro. WM. GROVE DJ:AL, setting
forth certain heavy expenditures by him in the years 1849 and 1850,
and praying relief from the Grand Lodge; which· was referred to a
special committee of three.
The Grand Master named the follo_wing brethren as such special
committeeBro. Wm. II. Hill,
On the memorial of Bro. Wm. Grove Deal,...... { " H. U. Jennings,
.

"

Isaac M. Walters.

Bro. LEWIS REYNOLDS, from the Committee on Unfinished Business, presented the following report:To the],[.., w... Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:The Committee on Unfinished Business respectfully report that they hav"I!
carefully examined th_e published record of the proceedin~s at the last A?nual
Communication of this Grand Lodge, and find the followmg matters still requiring action: . .
The consideration of the proposed new Constitution, presented last. year
by a. committee previously appointed to prepare it, was postponed until the
present session. (See printed proceedings, 1857, page 34.) .
..
A petition from Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, at Honolulu, m the Hawauan
Islands asking that a District Deputy Grand Master for those Islands be appointed' was referred to the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, {See
printed' proceedings, 1857, page 100,) but no report appears to have been
made thereon.
,
The report of a special committee upon the subject of "Side Degrees,' ~re­
sented at the last Communication, was laid over until the present sess10n.
(See printed proceedings, 1857, page lll.)
.
· The committee upon the donation of lands by Bro. A. M. WINN was agam
continued. ·(See printed proceedings, 1857, page 128.)
The following amendments to the Coiistitu tion were pr?p~sed at the last
Communication, and, having been then approved b~ a. m~Jority of the votes
present will come up for action at the present meetmg, viz.:To ~mend Article XIII., by striking it out and inserting instead thereof the
following:.
. .
"ART. XIII. Any proposed amendment or alteration of this Cons~1tu~1on
shall be presented to the Grand Lodge in writing at an Ai;inual Commumcat10n,
before the election of Grand Officers, by the representatives of at least three
subordinate Lodges ; and, if sanctioned by two thirds. of the memb~rs present,
shall become a part of this Constitutfon." (See prmted Proceedmgs, 1857,
page 101.)
.
To a.mend Article XIII. by striking out the concluding paragraph, which
is in the following words: "Provided, That the vote on such proposed amend-

[32]

253

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

mcnt shall be ta.ken prior to the election of Grand Officers." (See printed
Proceedings, 1857, page 101.)
The foregoing, it is believed, includes all the business remaining unfinished
at the close of the last Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
All of which is resp~ctfully submitted.
LEWIS REYNOLDS,
JAs. W. BICKNELL,
H. J. BRADLEY,
GILBERT LANPHIER,
JONATHAN GRHN,

1Oommit~e.
J

Which report was received and laid on the table.
Bro. Aux. G. ABELL, f'rom .the Committee on Foreign Correspondence, presented the following report: To the M.·. w: .. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:Again your Committee on Foreign Correspondence have carefolly examined
the proceedings of the various Grand Lodges of the United States, which have
been received since their last report, together with sundry correspondence from
Canada., from Europe, and from South America; and a.gain they will endeavor
to present a reflex o.f the transactions of those bodies, with such comment11 as ·
their limited time and humble abilities shall enable them to prepnre. The following are the printed proceedings which have reached them in time to be reYiewed for this Communication, viz. :ALA.DAMA, ..... for Dec., .... 1857. MISSISSIPPI, ...... for Jan., .... 1857.
ARKA.NSAB, ..... " Nov.,.... 1856. Missoum, ....... " May, .... 1857.
CONNECTICUT,.. " May, . ... 1857. NEBRASKA, . . . . . . " Sept., ... 1857.
DET..A.WARE, .... " June, .. . 1856. NEW HAMPSHIRE,. " June, ... 1857.
DrsT. COLUMBIA, to Dec., . ... 1856. NEw JERSEY, .. .. " Jan., .... 1857.
FLORIDA, ...... for Jan.,. ... 1857. NEwYORK, ..••.• " June, ... 1857.
GEORGIA, ...... " Oct., .. .. 1856. NoRTHCAROLINA,. " Dec., .•.• 1856.
ILLINOis, .•.••. " Oct., .... 1857. OH10, •....•..... " Oct., .... 1857.
INDIANA, ...... " May, .... 1857. OREGON, ......•. " June, ... 1857.
Iowa, ..•...... " June, ... 1857. PEsNBYLVANIA, • . " Dec., .... 1856.
KANSAS, ....... " Oct., . •. 1857. SouTHC.A.ROLINA,. to Dec., ... ,1856.
KENTUCKY, ..•• " Oct., .... 1857. TENNESSEE, ..... for Oct., .•.. 1857.
LOUISIANA, .... " Feb.,. ... 1857. TEXAS,.......... " Jan., .... 1857.
MAINE, ........ " May, .... 1857. VERMONT, ......... Ja.n., .... 1857.
MARYI•.A.ND, .... to May, .... 1857. Vmo!NIA,....... " Dec., .... 1857.
MICHIGAN, ..... for Jan., .. . . 1857. WrsooNBIN, ...... " June, ... 1857.
MINNESOTA, .... " Jan., . . .. 1857.
Being in all 33 G. Lodges of the U.S.,
besides the proceedings of the "Grand Lodge of Canada," from its formation
on the tenth day of October, 1855, to its second Annual Communication on the
ninth day of July, 1857,-the proceedings of the Provincial Grand Lodge or
Canada. West, from the twenty·tlrst day of May, 1856, to the ninth day of September, 1857, and of its successor, the" Ancient Grand Lodge of Canada," on
the tenth day of September of that year-the Bulletin of the Grand Orient of'
France for the months of January, February, March, and April, 1857, its Ma.Aonic Calendar for that year, and sundry correspondence-the Regulations and
By-Laws of the Provincial Gr1md Lodge of Victoria, (Australia,) held under
the authority of the Grand Lodge of Ireland-sundry communications from
the National Grand Orient of Peru--and a Manifesto and Circula,r from three
seceding Lodges under the jurisdiction of this last-named body, a.rio.ouncing the
establishment of an organization styled the Grand Lodge of Peru.
We regret that our fi\e of the transactions of American Grand Lodges lacks
the contributions of Massachusetts and Rhode Island, but it is certainly a subject for congratulation that of thirty-five n:ow existing in the United States, (be-

5

f33]

254

JOURNAL OF l'ROCEEDINGS.

[ ]Jfay,

sides our own,) the public~tions of but two have failed to reach us. As heretofore,
we prefix our annual growl at the musty antiquity of a few of them, and then
proceed to their consideration, commencing with

ALABAMA.
The Grand Lodge of this State begun its Annual Communication for the
year 1857. at the City of Montgomery, on the seventh day of December-the
M.-. W.-. J.'McCALEB WILEY, Grand Master, presiding, and the R. •• W.-. AHANI>TDSE &. PFISTER acting as Grnnd Secretary. .
·
The Address of the Grand Master contains a biographical sketch and proper
tribute to the memory of the late Grand Secretary, the R.-. W.·. AMA:SD P.
PFISTER who died soon after the close of the preceding Communication. For
nearly t~enty ye1us he had occq,pied that office, and, as was well said by Bro.
W1LEY, "the record~ of the Grand Lodge will constitute a monument to his memory U:s lasting as the bonds of our Union." The appointment of the brother of
the deceased, above named, to fill the vacancy thus created, is announced. The
Grand Master earnestly urges upon the Lodges the importance of Masonic Libraries; recommends the retention of o. goo~ Master in o~ce as long as be can. be
induced to serve ; and suggests the propriety of adoptmg the system of paymg
per diem and mileage to one delegate to the Grand Lodge from each subordinate.
·~he necessity for a uniform code of by-laws for the Lodges is strongly set forth,
nnd the inquiry is offered whether it would not be an improvement upon the present mode of publishingthe proceedings, to append lists of the membershipin t.hat
jurisdiction. He expresses the opinion that the ~ystem of District Deputy Grand
Masters" has not worked to' much advantage," though be is not disposed to recommend its abandonment until it shnll have been further tested during another
year. An interchange of Representatives with the Grand Lodges of Arkansas,
Florida, and LouiBiana, is . recorded, nnd the issue of twelve DispensatlonFseven to form new Lodges, o.nd five to revive extinct ones-is announced. He
recommends the cessation of intercourse with the Grand Lod~e of Hamburg,
and a refusal to recognize as Masons those hailing from its subordinates, until
the intrusive warrants sent by it to New York shall be withdrawn; and he closes
bis address with some remarks upon the new organizations in Canada, expres·sive of uu opinion adverse to their recognition.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Bro. Wi.r. A. FERRELL. It is
very brief, but we perceive that the writer has tound time to record his disapproval of the new test introduced by Ohio, which requires of a candidate, instead of, or in addition to the time-honored Masonic requisite of a belief in• God,
the· declaration of a belief in the divine authenticity of the Holy ScriptureH.
Several Lodges, whose Charters had been declared forfeited at the preceding
Communication, for non-compliance with the requiremmts of the Constitution,
having now made amends, were restored to tbe reg1stry. A resolution was
adopted in earnest approval of the great work of Bro. MoRms,-the " Univerrnl
Masonic Library,"-and at a later period we observe that action still more earnest was bad by the' passage of an order to purchase a copy of that rvblication
for each Lodge within the jurisdiction. When it Is remembered tbo.t last year
every Lodge was furnished with Morris's Code of Masonic Law, and that there
1
are about two hundred and twenty Lodges in the State, the Appropriation will
appear most liberal; but that it is as wise as liberal, if the means are at hand
to afford it, no intelligent Mason will be likely to deny. Jewels were presented
to Past Grand Masters S. A. M. Woon, EnwA1m HERXDON, and WILLIAM HENDRIX ; a committee to prepare a uniform code of by-laws for the Lodges was ap
pointed ; and an amendment to the Constitution, prescribing a mode of perfecting
and perpetuating the work, was presented by a committee of which Past Grand
Master DAVID CLOPTON was the chairman. The financial reports show that the receipts during the year were $7743, the disbursements $6871, and that there remained in the treasury the sum of $8739, besides a Trust Fund, in notes, amounting to $8107. Two hundred and fifteen chartered Lodges and five under dispensation now appear upon the registry, an increase of nine since our last report.
The Communication lasted five days, durin11: which the M.-. W.-. J. McCALEB WILEY
was reelected Grand Master, and the R.-. W.·.DA.Nn.:i. SAYRE was elected Grand
Secretary.

[34]

1858.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

25.1

ARKANSAS.
Our latest intelligence from the Grand Lodge· of Arkansas is contained. in
the published proceedings of its Annual Communication commenced at the City
of' Little Rock, on the third day of November, 1856,-the M.·. W.-. NAT. G. SMITH,
Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. Taos. D. MERRICK being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master, in his Address, recommends that the reports of the District Deputies be published for the good of .t!Jc Craft, al~hough h7 ~tates that, for
various reasons given, those officers have "generally fa1l~d to v1s1t the ~odges,
as their duty requires them to do." He announces the issue of ten D1~pensa­
tions for the formation of new Lodges during the year ; describes the duties and
qualifications of' Masters; urges the stric~est discipline in the government ?f
Lod.,.es and the great necessity for regularity of attendance on the part of their
me~be;s ; suggests further additions to the Library ; and declares ~~s opinion
in favor of the right of withdrawal. He strongly opposes the recogmt1on of the
independent Grand Lodge of Canada ; sincerely congratulates the brethren that
Masonry affords one peaceful spot, free from the agitating effects of party strife
and sectional politics; and hopefully anticipates the completion of St. Joh11;'s
College-his faith in this last being strengthened by a recurrence to certarn
events which happened to the children of Israel," under the reign of Jeboash,"
and by a firm reliance upon the financial conclusion "that interest, at ten per
cent. per annum, pretty soon makes a big pile."
.
Sundry decisions by the Grand Master during the year arc presented, m accordance with the regulation of Arkansas, as ~ollows :-That it is u~°:ecessary to
install the officers of a Lodge under dispensation-That n Lodge fa1lmg to elect
and install its officers at the proper. time, must receive authority from the Grand
Master to do so at a subseq?ent period:._~hat the reccpt~o°: of. the first t"'.o degrees does not entitle a candidate to the third-That unamm1ty 1s requl~ed m the
reception of candidates for initiation-That the advancement of a candidate may
be arrested at any stage, for sufficient cause-That a member may ?ast a black
ball without assigning any reason therefor-That a Lodge may o.tfili~te a member without a demit, in case ol' the dissolution of the Lodge to which he last
b3longed-Tbat a Lodge may adopt a new code of by-laws, if it be not in violation of any landmark or of any edict of the Grand Lodge, and the Grand Lodge
shall approve it-That the Secretary of a Lodge is bound to obey the will of
the Master and the Lodge in reco.rdinp; all things proper to be written-That
fees should be returned when degrees 1.ire pot conferred-That a memb~r may
ohject to the advancement of a candidate on other grounds tba.n those of 1mmorl\lity or unmasonic conduct-That a ballot cannot be reconsidered at a su_baequent meeting-And that proficiency in the preceding degree should be at tamed
before advancement.
We have enumerated the foregoing decisions only because we thought it remarkable that such simple Masonic truisms as most of them are, should have
been deemed so doubtful as to make " decisions " necessary:. There are others
upon which we shall offer a word 01· two. 1st-That a faihire on the part of a
Lodge to meet for twelve months, Involves the forfeiture of its Char.ter. This,,
we think, should not be enunciated as a general law of Masonry, as 1t is a matter properly depending upon the particular regulation of the Gr~nd Lodge having jurisdiction. 2d-That "an entry should never be made, either on the peti tlon or Lodge books, of bow a committee (on inyestigation of the fitness of u.
candidate) reported." We have never heard this aI11!-ounc.e~ before. In our
own jurisdiction it is the custom to make such r.eports m wr1tmg,. and tb7 substance of them is entered upon the record ; and 1t seems to us that 1f the mmutes
show (as, with 1111 deference to Virginia., we think al~ L~g~ records should) that
a petition bas been referred to a committee for their opimon, they,~~ould als?
~bow, o.t the proper time, the result of sue~ a re_f~renc~.. 3d-That. if a can~1date ls.rejected." the Lodge may return bis pet1t10n to .him, or ret&m 1t, at discretion. This too is new to us. We bad supposed 1t to be well settled that
even after reference to a committee, no petition could be withdrawn; but whatever difference of opinion or of practice there might a.t some time !iave been Q\J.

(35)

256

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

[May,

this point, it bo.s not before fallen under our observo.tion tbo.t o. petition might
be restored to o.n applico.nt after rejection. Even were it done, what object woul<l
the petitioner have gained by the recovery of a simple piece of paper, when the
records of the Lodge exhibited its contents and the consequences resulting ?
4th-That " o. subordino.te Lodge has the authority to restore an expelled member, by unanimous vote, to membership," but tbo.t the action of the Grand Lodge
"is necessary to restore him to all the rights and privileges of a Mo.eon." Now
this is difficult for us to comprehend. We have been under the impression that
a Grand Lodge only should restore in cases of expulsion, and such certainly
o.ppears to be the general usage in the United States. But, whether this be true
or not, if a subordinate may thus far effect a restoration, what need is there for
further action by the Grand Lodge, when membership, in good standing, in 61
legal Lodge, is the first and most complete title to all the rights and r.rivile~es
of Masonry? It seeins to us that almost the converse of Bro. SMITH s opimon
is generally held to be the true decision-that while the Grand Lodge may restore an expelled Mason to the rights and privileges of Maeonr:y at large, it may
not restore him to membership in the Lodge from which be was ejected, without
its proper assent. There are a few other decisions of the Grand Master of Arkansas. hut as they relate only to matters probably governed by the regulations
of that Grand Lodge, we make no comment on them.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by Bro. L. E. BARBER,
who lately occupied the Oriental Chair in that Grand Lodge. To those who
have read the papers which have heretofore proceeded from his pen, it is needless to say that it is a well-written summary of the transactions of the twentytbree Grand Lodges reviewed by him. We perceive that bis opinion relative to
the new test introduced by the Grand Lodge 0£ Ohio, and followed by Iowa and
Indiana, coincideR with our own,-be considering it "not only a wide departure
from the old regulations, but a dangerous innovation, leading to consequences
which cannot be foreseen." Sundry acts of the Grand Lodge of California, and
opinions of its committees, are quoted and commended ; and we have the gmtification of bearing that our report of 1856, was not o.ltogetber barren of effect,
ns it had served to clothe Bro. BARllER "with the armor of good humor," when
call~d on to notice the dread onslaught upon Arkansas, made by a former committee of Iowa. He is opposed to definite snspen~ions, which, three years ago,
were abolished in our jurisdiction ; and is unwilling at present to advise the
recognition of the new Grand Lodge of Canada.
We observe that on behalf of the Trustees of St. John's College, a very long
report is presented by Bro. SOLON BORLAND, in which the poets are made to do
an unusual amount of duty, and the action of the Grand Lodge in revoking the
edict of 1853, levying a contribution for the College, is strongly disapproved.
Another thing we observe which concerns the Grand Lodge of California. The
Committee on Appeals and Grievances, among otber!l, presented the following
report:"Your eommitttf'e have examiued the correspondence between the Secretary of
Franklin Lodge, No. 9, (in Arkansas) and thl' D. G. Lecturer of Lo• Ani;-eles District, in
California, in relation to the expulsion of W.W. REUBOTTOM, by said :Pranklin Lodge;
and are of the opinion that the action of Los Angeles LodS'e, m admitting said Jtr:uBOTTOM to memherahip, with the knowledge of the fa"ct ot his expulsion by Franklin
Lodge, is a breach of Masonic law and usage. and should subject said Loi Angele1
J,odre to censure. They therefore report that the request . of Los Angeles Lodge to
Franklin Lodge, (to restore said REV BOTTOM to membership) is unreasonable and unmasonic, and that Masonic usa/:("e requi red the D. G. Lecturer to communicate with
this Grand Lodge, and not with Fra11klin Lodge, No. 9.''
'
The report was adopted, and very properly. Who the " D. G. Lecturer of
Los Angeles District" was we are not aware ; but if it be true that a Lodge in
this jurisdiction has received a man into membership, knowing him to be an expelled Mason, it is very certain that sometbinp: more than "censure" should be
the meed of .the transgression. Your committee therefore present this matter
to your notice for examination, expressing at the same time their acquiescence
in the views of our brethren of Arkansas, as contained in the concluding paragraph Qf the re,port above quoted.

[36)

1858.]

GB.AND LODGE OF CALU'ORNIA.

257

An oration was delivered by the Grand Orator, Bro. GEO. A. GALLAGHER.
Resolutions to enforce the payment of arrears due for contributions to the St.
Joh n's College Fund, under the edict of 1853, and to solicit further aid to that
undertaking, were adopted. A committee was appointed to prepare a .uniform
code of by-laws for the government of the Lodges. The financial reports show
the receipts for the year to have been $3365, the balance in the Treasurer's
bands, $2837, and the amount of the College Fund $2296 in cash, $6108 in
real estate, and $14,408 in notes of hand. There are now one hundred and two
chartered Lodgei;, and nine under dispensation, existing in the State, showing
nn increase of twelve since our last report. The Communicution continued four
days, the .1.lf.·. lf:O. D. F. ARMSTRONG having been elected Grand Master, and the
R. ·. w. .. Tuos. D. MERRICK, reelected Grand Secretary.

CONNECTICUT.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of this State, for the year
1857, was held st the City of Hartford, commencing on the thirteenth day of
May-the M.·. W:. WrLl.lAM L. BREW Im, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W:.
ELJPHALET G. STORER being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master, in bis Address, adverts to the decease of several of the
older members of' tbnt body ; announces the issue of three Dispensations. to form
new Lodges ; pays a brief tribute to the memory of our distinguished brother.
E. K. KANE ; and recommends that action be taken for the preservation of the
nncient records of' the Grand Lodge, which, from its organization in 17g3 to the
year 1819, are found only" on loose scraps of paper, nearly all in manuscript,
and much worn ancl mutilated." The Address concludes with a notice of an
interesting relic of the past, now 11tnong the nrchiveR of the Grand Lod!!'e of'
Connecticut. This is a Charter granted Ly the ·Provincial Grand Lodge of MaPsacbusetts, on the fifteenth dny of February, 1776, to" American Union Lodj!;e,"
a traveling Lodge in the Connecticut Linc of the Continental Army, together
with its records, fully kept, during the war of the Revolu,tion.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, as for several years past, from
the ready pen of· Bro. WM. STQRER. In his notice of the proceedings of the
Grsnd Lodge of this State, be adverts to some remarks offered by us, in a preceding report, in reply to an opinion expressed by him that a Lodge under dispensation was" not really and in fact a Lodge, but only a temporary association
of Masons,'' &c. He says" The California committee do not exo.ctly agree with us in our definition of a Lodge
under dispensation. They very pertinently ask, if such a body be' no Lodge, in what
position are those Masons placed who hove received their degrees therein, wben called
upon to answer the inquiry where they were made 1 1 Perhaps we were not quite explicit enough, on a former occasion, in giving our view~ of a Lodge under dispensation.
It may he, Bnd probably is, true that such a body is in some sense a Lodge-at least so
far as the authority to 'make Masons' is involved; hut so far as we have been enabled
to discover, the best authorities agree 1hat ,uch a Lodge is not empowered to recei,·e
m.embers, nor are its officers entitled to installation. Th"Jcrsons made Masons therein
can not even become members of that particular body, an have no right to vote therein,
until the Lodge is duly chartered. Every Mnson knows that a ' Loc~e is B certain numher of Masons, duly assembled,' with the proper implements of the Craft,' and .a Charter
nr Warrant empowering them to work.' ~Now, as w~ understand the mailer, the Dispensation of a Grand Master is not such a' Charter or Warrant,' but merely a documeut of
temporary existence, authorizin~ certain individuals to perform .certain acts till the 11e.7't
meeting of the Grawl Lodge, when all the authority of the instrument comes to en end.
lf otherwise, why come to the Grand Lodge at all for a Charter? Why not net ,perpetually under the Dispensation 1 As to the persous receiving the degrees in a Lodge under dispensation, doubtless they are Masons, because the mysteries of Masonry have
heen regularly and lawfullv entrusted to them. They may become members of the
Lodge on its receiving a Cliarter, and in ease uone is issued, they may become members
of some other Lodge, in the usual way."

It bas always been with great diffidence that we have advanced opinions
which were opposed to those who were older, and doubtless better soldiers than
ourselves in the :Masonic ranks; and we have never been unwilling to be convinced, by proof or argument, when we were wrong in any conclusion at which

f37l

258

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

we had arrived. But will Bro. STORER say that there is ei.ther. in the quotation
just presented? Is it no~ simply a somew~at relucta~t rehnqmshment .ofa P?rtion of an original assert10n, and an assertion only still as regards !hat !o wb1ch
he yet adheres? Let us examine it in detail. He says ';,the Cahforma Committee do not exactly agree with us," &c. Not" exact.ly, we should suppose,
as the difference in opinion was positive, the one affirmrng, the ot~er den;png a
proposition. Our Connecticut brother decl~ed a Lodge under pispen.sat1on to
..be" not in fact a Lodge," while we entertarned no ?o!lbt that 1t was 1Il fact a
Lodge, and at the time gave some reasons for our opi~10n. No'Y, however, the
difference is not so wide a one, as Bro. STORER doubtrngly admit~ t.bat such .a
body " may be and probably is in some sense a. Lodge,'' but yet rn.iists that 1t
"is not empowered to receive members," &c. Wh;i: not! ~ho bas bad the authority to promulgate a general law of Masonry in t~1s 1espcct, or ~hat custom is there in regard to it, which, like our old regulat1on.s, is so ancient as to
command universal observance ? Can any rea&on be ~1ven why ea.ch Gra~d
Lodge may not prescrib~ for itself the powers w~ich ~hall be co~ferred up~n its
~ubordinates thus establtshed? There are certam thmgs to which antlqu1tyimmemorial usage-has given the absolute force of lo._w ; .but. it is scarcely probable tba.t this comparatively very modern mode of mst1tutmg L?dges, by socalled "dispensation," with its greater or lesser extent of o.?tb~rity conferred,
will be claimed by any as among them. That a Lodge of t~is k~nd. has no authority beyond that which is given in the instrument creo.tmg it, is of course
most true · but that a Grand Lodge may authorize the gre.ntins: in that instr,ument of sdcb powers besides the mere liberty "to make Me.sons(' as a.re given
to other Lodaes
we have as yet bee.rd nothing to make us doubt.
0
Our broth er ~f Connecticut says also , of such a Lod~e, " nor ar~ ite o~~ers
entitled to installation." This we understand to be a generally rece1yed opi!11o_n,
and it is that held in California, though it does not appear to be so 10 ~he J.ur1~­
diction which Bro. STORER represents. In our report of 185!), we noticed mc1dentally, that in Connecticut it seeme.d to be the practlc~ to ms~all the officers of
Lodges under dispensation · to which he r esponded m 1856, that the cases
alluded to were errors which would probably not again occur in tht State.
Yet notwithstanding this opinion. we observe in the proceedings now before us,
a report from the Deputy Grand Master, stating among other things. that by
order of the Grand Master and with the assistance of other Grand 0fllcers, he
bad installed the officers of two such Lodi~es during the year just past : and the
record add~ that" his official acts were approved by the Granrl :Yodge." We ~o
not mention this with any intent to criticise the action of that Grand Body in
this respect as for aught we know, it bas a perfect right to inaugurate such
Lodges in the ~ame manner that it docs those existing by vir~1~e ?f a Ghar~er.
But it is only done to show that Conn.e cticut, no more th~n Cahforma, recog~1zes
any such general law as is assert0d by the intelligent chairman of the Committee
on Foreign Correspondence.
..
.
Bro STORER says further-" Everr, Mason knows that a Lodge 1s a certam
numbe; of Masons, duly assembled, with the proper imple~ents of the ~~aft,
a·nd a Charter or Warrant empowering them to work; " addmg then that the
Dispense.tion of a Grand Master is not su~~ a Cbart~r.or ~V:arrant, but merely.I\
document of temporary existence, author1zmir certam md1v1dualsto perfom:, certain
act.! till the next meeting of the Grand Lodge." We understand thewords Charter" and" Warrant" to be synonymous terms as used in Masonry. In En~land
we believe the laRt name is the one in use, aR we know it to be the on.e employed
'in New York. With us, following the usage of most of the. American Gr~nll
Lodges it has been the custom to use the first; and thus, unhke the concludmg
portion' of the formula given above for the definition of a Lodge, we add "a.nd
a Charter or Dispensation empowering them to work." For the rest, we rc11dily
admit that a Dispensation is not a Charter, else we would not use the wo~ds as
distinctive terms· and that it only authorizes the performance of certain acts
(therein expressed) till the next meeting of the Grand Lodge," is precisely the
language we would ourselves _!Jave use~ in d~sc;ibi~g: i~. Let tho~e acts be such
only as the Grand Lodge withm whose JUrisd1ct1on 1t1s issued, shall have authorlz~ci..

·

{38]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

259

A word more in regard to the doubt which our distinguished brot.her of
Connecticut seems still to entertain, whether such a body as that of which we
have been treating can properly be called a Lodge. In answer to our inquiry in
a previous report, he replies that "the persons receiving the degrees iu a Lodge
under Dispensation are doubtless Masons, because the mysteries of Masonry have
been regularly and lawfully entr~sted to them." Could that be done else"'.h~re .than
in a regular and lawfully constituted Lodge of Masons T Bro. STORER is I? favor
of the recognition of the new Grand Lodge of Canada, and at a later pemld &be
Grand Lodge, by a unanimous vote, adopted a re.solution to that effect, w~ich
had been rejected the year before. We observ.e, with regTet, that he has declined
to serve for the coming year upon the Committee on Foreign Correspondence,
\Jut hope that ere long we may meet him again in the capacity in which he has
so well served during so many years.
A Gavel made from wood of the Charter Oak was presented to the Grand
Lodge. The Grand Secretary announced that, in addition to the $100 appropriated last year by the Grand Lodge, $145 had been received from the subordinate Lodges, for transmission to the "Relief Lodge" at New Orleans, to re~
imburse that body for the sums expended in charity to Masons from Connecticut.
It would be gratifying if some of our Eastern breth:en would be as. thou11htful
in regard to the disbursements made by the "Me.some Board of Rehef" m the
City of San Francisco, for aid to the suffering and needy of their respective jurisdictions. Fifty dollars was appropriated to the chairman of the Committe<J
on Foreign Correspond.ince for his report, but it was resolved that not more
than $25 should be paid for such service thereafter. It seems to us that if such
labor is to be paid for at all, the llrst named ~um affords little enough remuneration. The financial reports show the tote.! receipts of the year to have been
$ 629, and the disbursements $520, with a balance in the treasury of $376. The
Grand Secretary reporte fifty-four Lodges as now existing in the State, being
three less than our last report exh ibited. The Grand Lodge was two days in'
session, and the Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected.

DELA WARE.
We have no later information from the Grand Lodge of Delaware than that
contained in the proceedings at its Annual Communication for the year 1856,
held at the City of Wilmington, on the twenty-seventh day of June-the M:. W.'.
AU'RJCD P. ROBINSON, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W:. DANIEJ, R.
WOLFE being Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master presented an Address, in which he congratulates the Fraternity in his jurisdiction upon the prosperity which has there prevailed; recommends the establishment of Masonic libraries by the subordinate Lodges ; suggeRts the abolition of the semi-annual Communications, as being unnecessary
and always unattended ; and chronicles the decease of' the M:. W:. Bro. Jons
McLuNG, a Past Grand Master of that State.
No Report on Foreign Correspondence appeare, the committee on that subject
for the year before having possibly exploded the idea that such reports should be
tolerated in Delaware. The financial stutements show that S60 had been paid
in, and that $104 bad been paid out, but give no further information. Ten
Lodges still appear upon the register, as before. A single day sufficed to
transact the buRiness of the Communication, and the Grand Master and Gran<l
Secretary were both reelected.

DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
The proceedings of this Grand Lodge now before us are somewhat ancient,
comprising the transactions at a Special Communication on the twentieth day
of February-at the Semi-Annual Communication on the sixth day of May-at
a Special Communication on the Anniversary of St. John the Baptist-at the
Annual Communication on the fourth day of November-and at the Installation
Communication on the Anniversary of St. John the Evangelist; all holden at
the City of Washington in the year 1856-the M:. w.·.CnARLES s. •l<'RAJLEY,
Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·.GEORGE C. WHITING being Grand Secretary.

[39]

260

.JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[Ma!/,

The Communication first named was called for the purpose of performing the
funeral obsequies of the M. ·• W.·. RoBERT KEYWORTH, a Past Grand ~foster of
that jurisdiction. At the Seini-Annual Communication, the Grand Master delivered a brief Address, in which he offered a proper tribute to the memory of
Bro. KEYWORTH ; made eundry suggestions relative to matters only of domestic
interest ; and presented the information receiveu relative to the new Grand
Lodge of Canada in terms which seemed to favor its recognition. The committee to whom the Address was referred reported a resolution recognizing that
Grand Lodge, and the resolution wns ado_pted.
At the Annual Communication .t he Grand Mas~er again presented an Address, which the committee to whom it was referred most justly describe. as one
"combining the elements that should ever characterize the heart of a true Freemason." In it he alludes to the Congress of Masons in Paris, where that Grand
Lodge was represented; notices a striking instance of his unyieldinp: opposition
to so called "cases of emergency" ; sets forth the condition of the Craft within
his jurisdiction; animadverts upon the conduct of a Lodge which had granted
a demit to a member while under a charge of criminal offence against the laws
of the country ; suggests additions to the library of the Grand Lodge; and declines n reelection to the office he holds.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence was presented by Bro. GEo. C. Wm-'
TING, then Grand Secretary, and now Grand Master of the District; and it is
certainly a most creditable paper.. We perceive that he disapproves the regulation of California which permits Lodges to ballot for all the degrees at one
time, suggesting that the practice "is not in strict conformity with Ancient
Craft Masonry." The suggestio11 is doubtless a fact, as Lodges in" ancient"
times conferreu but one degree, nnd they had nothing more to ballot for-the
Grand Lodge performi11g the remai11der of the work. We do not consider the
question as one of much importance, as is evident from the fact that Lodges in
this jurisdiction 11re allowed to ballot in either manner, 11s tlleir own by-laws
may determine. It is simply one of expediency and convenience, a11d we have
n·ot yet learned that in this State nny evil has grown out of the permission which
bas been given. Bro. WHITING also records his disapprobation of another regulation of the Gra11d Lodge of California, giving to Lodges under dispensation
the privilege of receiving members by affiliation, which, though not formally
adopted until 1856, was but tbe echo of the usage which has prevailed here from
the beginning. Though he admits the reasonableness of our former proposition,
that a body worthy of being given the important authority to malce Masons,
might well be entrusted with the le~ser privilege nf admitting to membership
those already made, he is of the opinion that "there appears no legal way by
which such 11uthority cun be conferred." Is there any "legal way" by which
the conferring of such authority cun be prevented, whea that authority procP.eds
from the Supreme Masonic Power? We are compelled to suy, with all courtesy
and respect, that the argument of our brother of Columbia does not at all strike
us as sufficient. The assertion that the establishing a Lodge by.dispensation is
but the exertion of the (so called) power of tbe Grand Master "to make Masons
nt sight," requires not a little proof; and to say that a Grand Lodge may not
grant power to such Lodges to affiliate members, simply because it is a general
custom in the United States not to "corntitute" them or 11 install" their officera,
does not seem to us a very conclusive 1equitur. As we are not nware that this
mode of establishing Lodges can claim any very venerable degree of antiquity,
and as we have never encountered any ancient law upon the subject, we see no
reason to doubt that each Grand Lodge muy, with perfect propriety, regulate
for itself the extent of power to be conferred upon them. In our report of 1856
we had occasion in two or three places to speak upon this subject, and, to save
time now, we quote one paragraph from that report, which was written to keep
our courage up against the bugbears of" landmarka" nod 11 innovations," which
had been let loose upon us.
"We have as much veneration for the ' la11dmark& which our fathers ha\•e set,' and
as little desire •to make innovations upon the body of Masonry,' as any of our brethren
can possibly evince. But we most modestly suggest that every custom which a few

[40}

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

261

ye nrs ~ave sancti.oned, and which relates only to the local mode of government and to
the police, regulaho.ns of.thi; O~der, is not a.' land-mark' or a portion of 1he 'hody of
Masonry. E\•en tf.anttqmty 1~ to be considered a sufficient argument in the mamlenauce of any Masonic custom, however repugnant to the common sense of the present
day, we are yet to lean_i that i.t can pro~erly be .offered in the present case. So far as
we can. learn, the p;acttce of 1.ssumg '. J?ispensat1ons' to open new Lodges, as in use in
the ~mted ~tales, ts of Ame~1can origm,_ and Mnso_nry has not yet become so ancient
!In this ~onltnen!, as to authorize the settmg up of its usages as land-marks. It is our
1mpress1on that m England, the C?untry whence we de~ve the •Regulations' by which
we profess lo he i;-overn.ed, sue~ mstrui_nents are only 1ssuf!d by the Provincial Grand
Master, for a brief penod, unhl the will of lhe Grand Master can be ascertained. If
that be favorable, a Warrant is given by him, ~bich fully empowers those to whom it is
granted to do all tha~ a Lodge of Masons of right may do, and its only qualification is
that the n~xt succeedmg Grand Lodge has lhe power either to confirm or annul it a
powe.r which, nfier nil, any Grand Lodge has over the Charters of all its subordinate; at
any .t!me: It wol!ld. seem, .th.e n, that if there be' innovation' any where, it is not in the
add1t1on to the hm1ted privileges by some so stoutly maintained as necessary to the
lawfu.Jne~s of Lodges uni:ler dispensation, but is. reallY, in. that very limilation itself. The
racltce !B doubtless n good. one that Lodges In therr tnfancy should be more particuarly subjected to the scrutmy of the Grand Lodge, that it may determine by the ev·idences offered. whether the new creation should be continued in existence. But by wl.iate,·er name thetr tenure may be known, whet11er Dispensation, Charier, or \Varrant, we '
can see .no reason and h~ve heard ?f no law why they should not be Lodges in fact as
well as ID ~me, and while they exist, do all that a regular Lodge is empowered to do
by the ancient laws."
•

r.

Before.p~rtiag with Bro. WHITING, we consider it a duty to let him know how
much he .1s tnd~bted to our unconquerable sweetness of temper and forgiving?ess o~ d1sposlt1on i. for who but one possessing those amiable qualities in great
m~ens1ty, could patiently see his proper name eo mangled in the spelling by a
friend w~o had known ~im for more .than sixteen yeare.
At t~1s Com~unlcat1on the question of the recognition of the new Body in
~an11da,_ was agam brought before the Grand Lodge, and a most interesting and
mstructive report upon the subject was presented by Bro. B. B. FRE.SCH. It appears th~t at the time whe!1 action in this matter was hl\d, as before related, at
tbe Senu-Annual Commun1catlon, the circular of the Provincial Grand Lodge
of Canada West, In reply to the statement of the Independent Grand Lodge
had not been ~cceived. After its app~arancc, the Grand Master, entertaining
great doubt in. regard to the propr1ety of the conclusion at which the Grand
Lodge of the District had arrived, referred it, with the '!\·hole subject therewith ·
connected, to the committee who bad previously reported the resolution ot
recog_nltlon ; and the result was tbe paper now before us, which, after treating the
question at 11:reat length, and with that ability which few more than Bro. FRENCH
possess, reaffirms in the. most positive terms the decision previously pronounced.
We confess that our opinions m regard to the legality of the course pursued by
our Canada .brethren, ha!e bee_n not a little unsettled by his arguments and the
proofs he brmgs to bear tn their support ; but as we propose, if time be found
to ~evote a separate place to the consideration of this subject we leave it no~
until a more mature and careful examination can be had.
'
At the Inaugural Communication, a very handsome Valedictory was pronounced by the retiring Grand Master, and an appropriate Address was delivered by his succeesor. The finnncial reports exhibit the monetary position of
ea~h Lodge in the jurisdiction, as well as that of the Grand Lodge. The receipts o~ tbe last for the year were $444, tbe disbursements $400, and there rem~mi;d m the treas~ a balance of $608. The number of Lodges in the District is te~, there havmg been no change since our last report. The .M. ·• W. ·.
GEol!GE C. WHITING was elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. Gusuvus A.
SCHW.4.RZH.1.N, Grand Secretary.

FLORIDA•
The Grand Lodge of this State commenced its Annual Communication for
the year 1837, at the City of Tallahitssee, on the twelfth day of January-the
M.·. W.·. R~CIURD A. SHINE, Grand MBl!ter, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. JOHN B.
T.4.YLOR betng Grand Secretary.

6

(41]

262

JO URN AL OF PROCEEDINGS.

The Address of the Grand Master is very brief. He announces in fitting
terms the decease of the M:. w. .. JosEPH B. LANCASTER, a Past (}rand Master of
Florida; states that three Dispensations for the' establishment of new Lodges
bad been issued · and plllCeB before the brethren the communication of tbe Independ~nt Graud Lodge of Canada, without offering any opinion thereupon.
A long and well prepared Report on Foreign Correspondence iR presented
by Bro. TH01us BROWN. Though he does not in all things agree with the view11
presented in our report of 1856, we are happy to perceive that there are many
which he approves ; and we take the occasion to proffer our thanks for the flattering compliment which he bas been kind enough to bestow upon our labors.
He expresses bis surprise at a passing remark of ours In regard to sundry. strictures of other committees upon the practice of "going into Committee of' the
Whole" in the Grand Lodgt' of Indiana,-which was to the effect t.bat we saw
no reason why the brethren in that State should not be permitted to do their
own legislation in their own way t and he adds that mortification was felt, to1>,
at meeting " such an argument addressed to the consideration of experienced,
discriminating Masons, upon a subject of Masonic custom and usage,'' by those
· whom he considers as" intelligent." Now we think that Bro. BROWN will Bell,
upon reflection, that in this we offered no " argument" at all, and no opinion
even upon " a subject of Masonic custom and usage,'' for that implies something which is common to and affects the whole Craft. It was a mere suggestion that a little peculiarity In the domestic management of the Grand Lodge of
Indiana, was hardly a matter of sufficient importance to the Fraternity bejond
that jurisdiction, to make it worth while to wage war upon it; and we were induced to make the remark, because, in other instances besides this, as we then
said, "there is too frequent a disposition to find fault with the mere local practices or rep;ulations of' other bodies, for no better reason, generally, than that
they differ from those of the bodies to which the writers themselves belong."
It was not while treating of Florida that this paragraph was written, and we
did not then, and do not now intend it in the least to apply to her committee.
Nor did we, or do we, propose at all to defend or recommend the practice spoken
of. Nothing of the' kind occurs in the Grand Lodge of California, nor with our
assent ever would occur there. But our brethren of Indiana have thought differently, and as it appeared to us to be one of those things which concerned
themselves alone, we were not disposed to see them quaneled with in consequence, and were content to do what we have now done in nearly half 11 page
-say nothing at all aboµt it.
.
. In oul' turn we acknowledge a little surprise that our esteemed brother of
Florida should have come" to the conclusion that there is much good sense and
sound wisdom" in the peculiar report made by the Delaware Committee in 1855.
If be is in earnest, which we greatly doubt, from t4e care and labor be hRs
bestow€d upon bis own report, it is very probable that he will be generally conceded the honor of a first di@covery. The reviews of the proce€dings of the
various. Grand Lodges are generally brief, but over twenty pages nrc given to
a careful consideration of the Canadian question, resulting in the conclusion
that the new Grand Lodge should be warmly welcomed, and 11 resolution to that
effect, which was unanimously adopted.
The u.embers of the Grand Lodge were summoned to attend a meeting at
Alligator in May, 1857, for the purpose of adopting a uniform system of work.
A portrait of the first Grand Master of Florida, the M... w... JOHN P. DUVAL,
was ordered. The receipts for the year were $1572, and the expenditures such
as to leave $160 ln the Treasury. The names of thirty-one chartered Lodges
and of' three under di~pensation are given. The Communication continued six
day@, during which the M:. w... THOMAS Y. HENRY was elected Grand Master,
and the R:. W:. JoHN B. TAYLOR was reelect'ed Grand Secretary.

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

263

w:.,

Grand Ma.ster for the Fourth District, presiding, and the
SIMRI RosE, being
Grand Secretary.
The proceedings are saddened by the record of the decease of the Grand
Master, the M:. lV.'. WILLIAM C. DAWSON, who for thirteen years had presided
over the Craft in that State. Distinguished in public life, having long held the
highest positions which the people and the Legislature of bis State could bestow
-beloved and esteemed in private, for bis amiability of disposition and kindness
of beart,-and revered by his brethren for the Masonic virtues which so eminently qualified him to fill the high station he so long had occupied-his loss is
deeply telt by the Fraternity of Georgia, and will be mourned by many beyond
her borders. The following Is 11 resolution reported by the committee to whom
the melancholy announcement was referred : " ReBolced by the Grand I.odg~ of Georgia, That in the death of our late Grand
Master we have sustained a loss which human wisdom cannot measure. Our onward
progress in r.rosperity has received a check, which a close imitation of bis bright example can alone enahle us to overleap; and our Masonic fabric is weakened by a breach,
of which the broken column among our mystic emblems will perpetually remind u~.
But the living sprig of evergreen which a brother's ha11d has deposited with his l'erishable dust in the last home of all the living, with its symbolic teacbin~s triumphantly
assures u1 that his undring spirit will li,·e forever, as we cheerfully hope, m the realms of
a blissful immortality.'

Our latest news from the Grand J... odge of Georgia, give the tre.nsactione
at the Annual Communication which was begun at the City of Macon, on the
twenty-eight day of October, 1856-the R:. W:. WILLIAX S. Rocs:wELL, Deputy

The sum of $1200 was voted to erect a marble monument to the memory of
Bro. DAWSON, and his portrait was ordered to be procured and placed in the :East
of the Grand Lodge. Reports were presented by all the four Deputy Grand
Masters, relating principally to matters of domestic concern. Among their decisions we notice the following :-That an election of officers of a Lodge at a
time differeut from that prescribed in the Constitution of a Grand Lodge is a
nullity :-That in case of a vacancy in the Mastership of a Lodge, that office
devolves upon the Senior Warden, and if he declines to preside, from any cause,
it is the duty (and right) of the Junior Warden to do so, even though the Senior
Warden be present :-That a member of n Lodge who foels himself agp;rieved by
a decision of the Master, must seek bis remedy by application to the Grand
Lodge ; and that it is the duty of a Master, upon proper request, to convene .b is
Lodge and attend the remains of a brother to the grave, "no matter what his
religious belief In life may have been ;" the only proper subject for inquiry
being whether he was in good standing In Masonry at the time of his decease.
All these accord with our own opinions.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by Bro. SAMUEI. LAW·
REKCE, the editor of the "Masonic Signet and Journal." In bis views regarding the rights' of Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts to be considertd as
members of Lodges, we fully concur. The ancient custom in that respect is indisputable, and we are not yet acquainted with the reasons why a different regulation came into so general (at one time universal) use in the United States..
But It bas so come, and as there are some abstract rights which are not of sufficient importance to llSBert when great obstacles stand in the way of their
achievement, we are content in the belief that thiB is one of them, and are willing
to leave this usage where the common consent of American Masons once bas
placed It. This much at least can be said in its favor. It is an incentive to
search for all the light in Masonry, and operates as an inducement to accept all
the duties and responalbllities of the Order. We perceive that the fame of Bro.
WALLACE, of Iowa, bas reached the Georgia committee, and that they have not
suffered bis light to be entirely hidden under a bushel. The very flattering remark is made of the Grand Lodp;e of California, that, "although one of the
youngest, it is one of the most enlightened jurisdictions in this country." Bro.
LAWRENCE fully agrees with us in regard to the propriety of permitting Lodges
under dispensation to receive members by affiliation ; yet states bis belief, in
accordance with that held in Georgia, that this, as well as their other pow<·rs,
must depend upon the terms of the dispensation-the very opinion which the
Grand Lodge of California entertains, as is shown by its resolution quoted in
his review, and which this committee bas just re-asserted in that portion of its
report relating to the District of Columbia. A stringent resolution relative to

[42]

(43]

GEORGIA.

264

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

265

The Grand Lodge of this State commenced its seventeenth Annual Communication at the City of Springfield, on the sixth day of October,' 1857,-tbe
M:. W:-. JAMES H. Hrnn.a.liD, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.'. W.". HARMON
G. REYNOLDS being Grand Secretary.
•
The Grand Master, in bis Address. announces the death of the R.-. W.·. WM.
A. DICKEY, a Past Junior Grand Warden of that body, and pays a kindly tribnte
to bis memory. He gives a list of twenty-six Lodges for the formation of which
he had issued Dispensations during the year ; deprecates so much legislation
upon matters of small consequence, and so little upon affairs of really great importance ; and reproves that carelessneEs of the members and officers of Lodges,
which overwhelms the Grand Master with letters of inquiry upon subjects, which
a reading of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge would have f'ullr informed
them concerning. We commend some of our brethren in this jurisdiction to a
notice of that complaint. One passage in the Address strikes us us announcing
something unusual among the official acts of a Grand Master. He informs the
Grand Lodge that in accordance with the unanimous recommendation of a
Lodge by whom a Jlfason bad been expelled, he bad restored him to all the rigbte
and privileges of Masonry. It is possible that the regulations of the Grand
Lodge of Illinois may confer this power upon the Grand Master ; but if not, we
respectfully ask whether such an exercise of authority is in accordance with the
usual customs of the Order ? The Address concludes with some remarks discountenancing the many mushroom Jlfusonic periodicals with which the country
is flooded, and bestowing a fla.ttering, and, as it appears to us, well deserved
encomium upon the Grand Secretary.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by the ofljcer just mentioned, Bro. HARMON G. REYNOLDS. It does not follow the usual course of
reviewing the transactions of each Grand Lodge, but treats of varions subjects
under their distinctive beads, giving large quotations from other proceedings in
regard to them, and closes with a brief notice of ea.ch Body from which communications have been received. A somewhat comical reason is given for the
non-appearance of a report of this kind at the preceding Communication. The
chairman of the Maine Committee bad enquired whether Its absence was "accidental, providential, or intentional?" whereupon Bro. REYNOLDS answers that
"The chairman of the committee last year, a very bright Mason, is a physician
:"·ho intended to j>repare a report, but press!ng engage~ents prevented. Dr. RtcE wa;
JD tp~ same fix. .B.ro. P1cKETT .took the burcfen !Jpon his hands, but he was .:pgaged in
poht1cs, and was himself a cand1dntc for a lucrative office, and could 1JOt get 1t ready ill
time. Your committee are therefore of the opinion that the causes of its non-appearance
are 1urgical, medicinal and poUtical !"
Resolutions accompanied the report, instructing the Grand Secretary to open
a correspondence with the Commission established at Paris by the late Masonic
Congress; commending the position assumed by the Grand Lodge of New York
in relation to the proposed union with the so-called Phillips Grand Lodge; recognizing the Grand Lodge of Canada; 'denouncing the "side-degrees" nnd
prohibiting the conferring them in Masonic Lodge-rooms; and forbidding intercourse with Masons from New York who have not the proper certificates of their

regular standing in~he Grand Lodge of that State ; all of which were adopted.
The Master ofa Lodge presented the following statement to the Grand Lodge
'
and asked instructions thereupon:"Two members of the German Lutheran Church have for some years been niembers
of ~y Lodge. Last winter t~ey were co'!lpelled to make a promise to abstain from
p~ymg dues, and from attending the meetings of the Lodge, on pain of being excommunicated from the Church. At a subsequent meeting of the Lodge I got a hrother to
prefer charges against them, speci~ving the cause, which the Lodge' did uot sustain and
they remain members entitled to all the privileges of Masonry.''
'
This is one of the few cases in many years where a Protestant Church b&11
thus Interfered. The communication was referred to the Committee on Masonic
Jurisprudence, who reported that in their opinion
" Masonry does not assume the authority to hold its members or votaries in affiliation
wh~n. such affiliation inte!feres with th~ir duties to their God, or with the peace of thei;
fam1hes; and that such interference 1s good cause for "ll Mason to withdraw from a
Lodge by demit."
_ With the inten~ of this report we cordially agree, but we think its language
might have been improved by saying "when such affiliation Ui believed to inter·
f'ere with their duties to their God," &c., as it might now be inf'err~d that Filch
n state of interference may really eXlst-a thing of which we can form no con·
ceptlon. We think, too, that while the report suggested the proper course for
the two brethren to pursue, it should have administered them some reproof for
not pureuinl!' it. There is no doubt, in our mind, of the right of any Mason, for
any cause which to him seems good, to withdraw from membership-always
recolle?tln~ that when he thus v~luntarily ceases bis connection with a Lodge,
all obligations of the Lodges to him have also ceased ;-but it appearR to us that
a little wholesome advice might have been given to the two German Lutheran
bretb!en and their ghostly counsellors, whose conscientious scruples would not
permit them to pay dues to a Lodge, but were not at all shocked at their continuing to retain the privileges of membership.
An incident occured during the Communication, which, as it coocerns a
matter of Masonic usage, we deem sufficiently important to take brief notice of.
The Grand !\foster bad proclaimed in the morning that the new Constitution of
the Gri.rnd Lodge was then in force, it having received the proper vote of the ·
subordinate Lodges. In the afternoon, Bro. SHIRLEY, believing apparently that
something more was required before it became the supreme law, offered a res·
olt~tion tba~ the Constitution be submitted to the Grand Lodge for adoption.
This re8olut1on the Grand Master ruled aR out of order, inasmuch as no dissent
had been offered to the proclamation of the morning, and because, as we are Jed
to infer, be did not believe that the old Constitution made such legislation ne·
cessary. Bro. SHIRLEY appealed from the ruling, and it is recorded that the
Deputy Grand Master was called to the chair, and the Grand Master" gave bis
reasons at lenl!.'th for bis decision" ; wbert;upon, after considerable debate the
ruling of the Grand Master was sustained. Upon this, Bro. SHIRLEY gave n~tice
that he would offer a protest against the decision, and on the following morning
he did offer such a paper, which was ruled out by the Grand Master. Now we
have seen nothing in the present Constitution or regulations of Illinois which
authorizes an appeal from a decision of the Grand Master in the chair and in
the absence of some such expreRs provision, it appears to us that the general
usage of the Order would forbid the entertaining such a proposition and that
the appeal ought not to have been allowed. Yet, while in the absence 'of express
statut~s, under that common l~w of Maso~ry which long continued custom bas
prescr~b~d, we W?uld thus decide, we avail oursel~es of the occasion to express
the op1mon that 1t ought not thus to be. At the risk of encountering from some
of our young, but apparently very ancient brethren, a further ebower of" Ancient
Landmarks" and" Young America," we declare that upon this point, no more
than upon some others, have we any faith in those "inherent rights'' of Grand
Masters 'Yhich_elevate them so high above the body creating them, aR to render
them entirely mdependent and utterly irresponsible for their acts. We consider
a Grand Lodge in these days as simply the Legislature of the Craft, and as it is

[44]

[45]

visitors from New York was presented, as was another declining, at present, to
recognize the new Grand Lodge of Canada ; both which were adopted.
A very encoura.ging report in relation to the "Southern 'Masonic Female
College " appears. The financial statements show that the revenue of the Grand
Lodge for the year was $9112,-that the expenditures, excluding the pnrchase
of certain stocks, were $8151-and that there remnined in the Treasury $1389
in cash. besides investments in loans and stocks to the amount of $13,250. Two
hundred and four chartered Lodges and one under dispensation are now borne
upon the registry of Georgia, (being seven more than we last reported,) having
an aggregate membership of 12,310. The Grand Lodge was in session four
days. during which the M.·. W:-. WILLI.AMS. Roox.wELL was elected Grand Master,
and the W.·. Smar RosE was reelected Grand Secretary.

ILLINOIS.

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

the supreme authority, beyond which there is no tribunal where an appeal can
be maintained, it seems a very absurdity that one man, the temporary officer of
its own elevation, should be permitted, unqttestioned, to declare upon what subjects it"ahall or shall not deliberate, and with despotic power to pronounce and
maintain his single opinion in opposition, as it may be, to the united voice of the
body which created him. We believe it should be the proper province of the
Grand Master, when the Masonic Senate is in session, to preside over and preserve order during its deliberations, but that ils will, and not his, should be the
law. Thus we think there would be sound reason in such a provision of the
organic laws, as would do away with that present generally acknowledged doctrine of the supremacy of Grand Masters, which had its origin probably during
the same period that gave birth to the equally sensible proposition that "the
King can do no wrong." We sha.ll not be alone in this heresy, for some of the
most eminent Masons in the Union have lat11ly and successfully advanced it in
those elevated and intellig~nt bodies, the General Grand Chapter and the Grand
Encampment of the Unit'ld States. As to the " protest,'' the Grand Master of
Illinois was right in the refusal to receive it. It is one of our promises to abide
by the decision of a majority of our brethren, and such a paper was in spirit a
violation of that promise, as it sought to record an unwillingness to submit to
the arbitrament, not of the Grand Master only, but of a large majority of the
members of the Grand Lodge.
The financial reports exhibit a revenue for the year of $6,40!1., and an expenditure of $5,283 ; and there remained $6,956, in the Treasury. Two hundred and
thirty-nine chartered Lodges and four under dispensation now exist upon the
registry of Illinois. The Communication continued three days, dnrinir which
the M. •. W>. HARRISON DILLS was elected Grand Master, and the R:. W.·. HARMON
G. REYNOLDS was reelected Grand Secretary.

INDIAN A.
The Grand Lodge of Indiana commenced its Annual Communication for the
year 1857, at the City of Indianapolis, on the twenty-fifth day of May-the
M:. W.·. A. C. DowNEY, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.·. FRANCIS KING
being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is brief. He declares that, with a few
slight excepticme, " nothing has occurred to disturb the general quiet;" announces the issue of fourteen Dispensations for new lodges, durin1t the ye11r ;
sugirests the enactment of a regulation by which Masters and Grand Masters may
be tried by the Lodges of which they are members, for any "unmasonic conduct
not growing out of their official acts ;" and signifies his desire to be relieved
from the duties of the high position which he had occupied during four years.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by Bro. SOLOMON D.
BAYLESS, and is principally a compilation from the etatistical tables of other
Grand Lodges, exhibiting the amount of revenue and number of initiations,
affiliations, demissions, suspensions, expulsions, &c. It seems to us, from our
own recollection about some of these things, j;hat they have been . too carelessly
collated by Bro. BAYLESS to be of much value. For instance-The receipts of
Kentucky for 1856, are set down at $10,541. Our examin11tion makes them
about $12,000. The revenue of Texas for the same year is noted at $4380,
while we find it to have been about $5560. That of Californil\ is reported at
$5778. It was $6194. The duee received by New Jersey in 1856 are stated to
have been $1616, but a more careful examination will show that they were $532.
The revenues of Arkansas and Mississippi for the same year, figure for about
half the proper amount, the first being called $1701, when it was near $3365,
and the second $3488, when it was about $7150; and worst of all, in the notice
of the Georgia proceedings for 1855, it is said that " the receipts of the Grand
Lodge for the three past years were $3476," when, in fact, for that one year
alone. they were nearly $9600 ! Taking these example~ as a guide for our op.inion, we are inclined to believe that Bro. BAYLESS has had rather bad luck with
his statistical effort. In that part of his report which speaks of the transactions
of California in 1856, it is stated that there were "demitted, 397 ," and "withdrawn, 493 ;" and that "ninety-eight Lodges were represented, who represented

[46]

"

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

267

898 jurisdictions"! Will our esteemed brother explain to us the difference between demitting and withdrawing ; and above all will he satisfy our gTeat curiosity to know where all those " 898 juriedictions" are, and how they came to
be represented by " ninety-eight Lodges " in California? In noticing the refusal
by the Grand Lodge of New York to recognize the new Grand Lodge of Canada,
the Indiana committee" desire to say that no ohetinacy OB the part of even all
the Lodges within our National jurisdiction, which may be manifested on such
merely technical grounds, will for any considerable period be effectual. Public
sentiment has much to do with it, and the spirit and genius of our beloved government is awake'hed in our hearts and sways in our mind when we consider
it." We have seen some more convincing arguments than this upon that side
of the Canada controversy, as we a.re not much in the habit of calling in "public
sentiment" or" the ~pirit and genius of our beloved government" to" sway in
our mind" when determining a question of Masonic right or wrong. Bro. liAYLESS advocates the payment of committees on Forllisn Correspondence for their
labors, and to this we certainly have not the least objection.
From a report by Bro. WM. SHEETS, Commissioner of the Grand Lodge Hall,
we learn that the amount of stock in that building now owned by the Grand
Lodge is $24,000, and that but about $8,000, principally belonging to Chapters
and subordinate Lodges, remained to be redeemed. As upwards of $5,000 was
applied to that ·purpose during the year preceding, but a short time will be
required to complete the redemption. An application was made for the restoration of a Mason who had been expelled by a Lodge in Ohio two years after he
had demitted from that Lodge and removed to Indiana. It was denied, the committee to whom it was referred being of the opi11ion, notwithstanding their conviction that the charge on which he was expelled was not well founded, and that
the Lodge thus acting had no jurisdiction, that the brother thus aggrieved should
8 eek redress from the Grand Lodge of Ohio. The decision we believe to be a correct one. In answer to the communication of a committee from the Grand Chapter
and Grand Council of the State, proposinit to the Grand Lodge to join them in the
publication of a "Book of the Law and Ceremonies," it was decided that there
were already books enough. Amen! A committee to whom was referred that fortion of the Grand Master's Address suggesting a new regulation for the tria of
Masters and Grand Masters, express the opinion that such officers should be as
much " amenable to the Lodges of which they are members, for any violation of
the great moral code,'' as any other Mason ; and that they should, each in his
proper Lodge, be subject to "discipline for a violation of any duty other than
r.hat growing out of their offici11l duties;" and they conclude their report by
proposing the following "New Regulations" :,.......
"!st. Jt shall he competent for the subordinate Lodge of which the Grand Master is
a member, to try, ~nd expel or suspend him for any unmasonic conduct nol growing
out of his official duties; and wheu expelled or suspended, his office of Grand Master
shall be va1·ated, and the officer next i11 rank sbould fill the office.
·
"2d. Subordinate Lodges shall have power to try, nnd expel or suspend their Muter for any unmasonic roncluct not growing out of tht1 discharge of his official duties.
When the Master of a Lodge is unaer triaT, the officer next in rank, or 1ome Past Master
lo be designated by him, shall pre•ide. When the Master of a Lodge is.expelled or suspended, the officer next in rank shall succeed to the station.
"Sd. The Grand Master and Masters of &ubnrdinale Lodges are answerable only Lo
the Grand Lodge for acts growing out of their official duties.''
These were agTeed to by the Grand Lodge, and under its By-Laws, were
ordered to be laid over for action at its next Communication, by which time it
is to be hoped that a little cool reflection will have come to its aid. The Grand
Secretary's report shows that the revenue for the year was $9,617 ; the expenditure $9,723, of which $5,300 was for the redemption of Grand Lodge Hall
stock ; and that there remained in the Treasury $318. Two hundred and fifteen
chartered Lodges, and five under dispensation, now appear on the registry of
Indiana, being an increase of fifteen since our last report. The Communication
continued five days, the M:. W.·. SOLOMON D. BAYLESS having been elected Grand
Master, und the R:. W:. FRA..'\"CIS KING reelected Grand Secretary.

[47]

268

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

IOWA.
The fourteenth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of this State was
commenced at Iowa City, on the second day of June, 1857,-the M.·. W.·.,JoHN F.
SANFORD, Grand Master, presiding, nnd the R.·. W.·. THEODORE S. PARVIN being
Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master presents the customary congratulation upon
the condition of the Order; gives an eloquent panegyric upon the system of
Freemasonry ; and asserts the great care which has been taken to purify nnd
re-invigorate the Institution within thatjurisdiction. It reciteR the unsuccessful
efforts which have been made to establish a uniformity of work in that State by
a system of districts and Grand Lodges of Instruction ; records its utter failure ;
and recommends, as the only practicable manner of ensuring an approximation
to that much desired result, the exhibition of the work and lectures before the
Grand Lodge at ea.ch Annual Communication. The action of the Grand Lodge
the year before in recognizing the Grand Lodge of Canada is maintained ; the
prosperity of the Order in Iowa is demonstr0;ted (?) b;y- ~he fact that seventeen
Dispensations to form new Lodges have been issued withm the year; and a new
Masonic periodical, established in that State and called the " Western Freemason" is recommended to the attention of the brethren. The Address closes
with a' complimentary apd well merited notice of the efficient Grand Secretar;Y ;
an annunciation of the decease of Bro. THOMAS WILLIAMS, a Past Grand Semor
Warden of Iowa; and a glowing tribute to the memory of Bro. E. K. KANE.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is written by the Grand Secretary,
Bro. T. S. PARVIN. In its commencement he announces his determination only
"to present an epitome of their doings and results, (those of other jurisdictions)
without any effort to comment or criticise , further than to express our (h.is) approbation or dissent from the positions assumed by the writers, or actions of the
bodies whose exponents they are." With all deference to Bro. PARVIN's fixed
oplnion3, we modestly suggest that1 as one of th.e pr~ncipal objects of these reports is to discuss all mooted and disputed questions m Masonry, to the end th at
errors may be corrected and an approximation to uniformity in theory and practice be effected, the mere dissent to or denial of a proposition emanating from
another is not likely to prove very convincing; whereas the exhibition of Rome
argument in favor of the dissent, or proof in support of the denial, might perchance, were either sufficiently cogent, compel his adversary to his opinion.
Bro. PARVIN is mistaken in saying that the Grand Lodge of California has added
to its Constitution that "No brother shall ·be eligible to the office of Master of a
chartered Lodge unless he shall have served as Warden in some Lodge." On
the contrary, it refused to do so at the very Communication, the proceedings of
which he is now reviewing. The reasona for the refuswl. have been heretofore
given in our published transactions, and may be again' spoken of in this report,
but not until some more potent spirit than " the spirit of Young America," or
more venerable shade tha.n that of " Old Fogyism," shall be evoked to convince
us that it is necessary. Our excellent brother of Iowa seems to have read our
proceedings quite too hurriedly to eneure great accuracy, for he again errs in
putting into our mouth the question "Who are the peers of Past Grand Masters?" We asked nothing of the kind. A reference to our report of 1856 will
exhi\lit the following paragraph:'•'.Ve remark the announcement by the acting Grand Master, upon appointing a r.ommittee of Past Grand Masters to in\·estigate certain matters in reference to another brother
of that rank, that such a committee was appointed through courtesy only,' as all Masttr
Masons were the peers and equals of Grand Masters! Is our R.·. W.·. brother of Iowa
gnite sure of that 1 Are all Master Masons the peers even of the Master of n snbordinale
Lodge7"

To this wns appended some further remarks illustrative of our doubt as to
the correctness of the opinion above italicised, and if Bro. PARVIN will reply to
them, and prove to us, by something more convincing th11n simple assertion or
mere " di11sent," that all Master Masons are, masonically speaking, the peers of
Grand Masters,' we will incontinently withdraw our imprudent question. He may
eafely be "quite sure that all Master Masons are the peers of all Past Masters

]48]

. 1858.]

GRAND LODGE 01' OAIJFORNIA.

269

and Past Grand Masters," but he was certainly either very chreless ol' vei:y
wrong thus to interpolate words, and to italicise them too, which we never used
or thought of using, and which are calculated to give a meapiog to our language
entirely different from that which was plainly written. For the compliment to
our labors which our brother of Iowa is kind enough to bestow, we feel fraternally grateful, and we assure him that it is considered all the more flattering, as
coming from one whose zeal and devotion to our Order, every page of the proceedings of his own Grand Lodge most plainly shows. Bro. PARVIN's reprobation
of a provision in the "standard" by-laws of another State which leaves socalled " cases of emergency" to the discretion of the Lodges, we heartily coincide with ; and we are pleased to be enabled to say that not only does no such
practice exist among the Lodges here, but that the issuance of dispensations by
the Grand Master for " emergent cases " is now unheard of.
A new ConstitUtion and code of By-Laws for the Grand Lodge bad been
adopted . . A reprint of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge for the first ten
years of its existence was ordered; and, as we first set " that ball in motion " and
have furnished all our contemporaries with the bound 'Volume of our earlier
transactions, we shall hope to be favored with this addition to our library. The
Grand Secretary of Iowa, in giving credit to California for the earliest proceedings received, (they having arrived within sixty-three days after the close of our
Grand Lodge,) might have mentioned the additional foct that, with one exception,
it was the most distant body with which he has communication. The fact is that the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California, making a volume of two hundred
nnd twenty-fl•e pages, principally of solid brevier, were published within thirty
days after the termination of the session. The Grand Treasurer's Report shows
a receipt for the preceding year ·of $2821, nod an expenditure of $1749, leaving
an amount on baud of $3118, of which sum $542 was in cash. One hundred
and two chartered Lodges and six under dispensation now appear upon the regiRtry of Iowa, being eighteen more than were noted in our last report. This
Grand Lodge wns four days in session, and the Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected.
·

KANSAS.
'1.'be Grnnd Lodge of this Territory has apparently held two Annual Commu·
nications since the meeting when its organization was effected, in March, 1856,
a.s noticed in our last report. We hava received the proceedings of the last of
these only,-tbat. held at the City of :j:Jeavenworth, commencing on the nineteenth day of October, 1857, when the M.·. n~ .. RIOHARD R. REES, Grand Maeter,
preRided, and ~he R.-. W.-. CHARLES MuNDEE was Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is of considerable length, and its first paragraph is about the longest we ever saw. He congratulates the Grand Lodge
upon the more peaceful aspect of' the outer world now exhibited in Kansas ; com·
mends the subject of education to its care ; expresses nn opinion favorable to
the system of t·epreseotation between Grand LodgeA, which he somewhat slngu·
larly styles " Grand Lodge visitation ;" announcew the issue of seven dispensations to form new Lodges; and advocates the establishment of a "universal
sovereign power in MMonry, either me11ting iu some locality central to the civilized world, or, like the General G. R. A. Chapter of the Union, itinerant." On
this subject he is very eloquent, and he concludes a picture of all the
world most fraternally shaking hands, by the proposal " that on the twentyfourth day of J~e, 1870, delegates from every Grand Lodge in the world, and
from every body of Masons, however hidden in the distant wilds," assemble at
the City of York, in England. A very comprehensive proposition, certainly,
but unluckily having one little obstacle in the way of its accomplishment-its
utter impracticability.
A Report on Foreign Correspondence, consisting of two paragraphs, is pre·
sented by Bro. LEANDER KER. In the first of these the following comical and
original reason is given for the recognition of the Grand Lodge of Canada :"Your committee wonld protest against the formation of any alliance with a Lodge
or Lodges under foreign power, whose political opinions differ materially from our own;

7

(491

270

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

but in this case, where there is neither political or religious reasons existing, forbidding
such an alliance. your commillee are willing to acrede to the overtures of the Grand
Lodge of Canada to the Grand Lodges of the United States, and would recommend the
adoption," &c.

How much time Bros. TUC!(ER. FRENCH, BROWN, and others have wasted upon
Masonic arguments in favor of acknowledging the new Grand Lodge, when, after

all the question was one of "political or religions reasons," of which there

we~e none! In the second paragraph of the report, it is proposed to buy Mount
Vernon, "the home and grave of Washington, who was a wllrthy Maeon." Two
hundred thousand dollars are asked for it, it is said, and if the 300,000 Masons
in the Union would give a dollar each, it might be purchased, converted into a
"Grand National Masonic College," and "leave a large surplus fund to be disposed of as the Grand Lodge of' the United States (?) might in its decision see
fit." Verily, our youthful sister of Kansas is" spreading" herself; and having
within the second year of her own existence, given birth to such vast conceptions
as a Grand National Masonic College, a Grand Lodge of the United States,
and a Universal Grand Assembly of all (Masonic) creation, what may we
not expect of her in the future?
The financial report exhibits a revenue for the year of $307, and an expenditure of $162, leaving $145 in the treasury._ There appear now to be nine chartered Lodges and four under dispensation in the Territory. The Communication continued during two days, and the Grand Master and Grand Secretary
were both reelected.
·

KENTUCKY.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of this State was begun at the
City of Lexington, on the twelfth day of October, 1857-tbe Jf.·. W.·. THEODORl'l
N. WISK, Grand Master, presiding, and Bro. JOHN M. S. M1;ConKLE being Grand
Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master is a well-written paper, which we are sorry
to see somewhat marred in its commencement by an apparent expressi.on of
sympathy with the wretches who have perpetrated the late horriLle outrages
and m>1ssacres in India-here dignified as " millions of enslaved people aspiring
to throw off her yoke, (that of Great Britain), and reassert the ancient grandeur
of their mysterious, wonderful, nnd roll\antic clime." He congratulates the
Craft upon the harmony prevailing among the nearly three hundnd Lodges of
Kentucky, and states that their aggregate membersllip exceeds ten thousand.
He laments the death of two Past Grand Masters of that jurisdiction, Bros.
WILLIS STEWART and JoHll D. McC1.unE; announces the issue of ten DiEpensations to form new Lodges; and alludes to 1he laying of the corner-stone <Jf the
Clay Monument, in the City of Lexington, on the fourth day of July last.
A decision of the Grand Master, during the receEs, is presented Ly him as
follows :-.A Lodge had tried and expelled a member, and upon appeal, the
Grand Lodge, at the preceding Communication, ha(l reversed the decision of the
sulJordinate, and sent the case back to it for a new trial. Upon the second trial,
the accused party was acquitted, but the Master of the Lodge refused to recognize him theu as a member of that body; 'and the question being laid before the
Grand Master, he decided that the acquitted party was restored to membership
in the Lodge. We observe that the committee. to whom this part of the Grand
Master's Address was referred, qiffer with him in opinion, because one of 1hc
Constitutional Rules of the Grand Lodge declares that the rcs1oration of an
expelled or suspended Mason, by that body, to the IJendits and privileges of Masonry, shall not restore liim to "membership within the Lodj!'e from which he
was suspended or expelled, without its unanimous consent." The Grand Lodge
sustained the decision of the Grand Master, and, as it seems to us, correctly.
The case was not one coming within the rule upon which the committee IJased
its report, as the party does not appear to have been "restored " by the Grand
Lodge, but simply to have been tried and acquitted by his own,-the proceedings in the first trial having been set aside, and the case then being just where
it was when the charges were prefe'rred.

[50]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

271

Two cases of attempted assumption of authority by Past Masters, are related
by Bro. WISE one of which exhibited some peculiar aepects. At a called meetina of Robert Burns Lodge, No. 163, the Master and Senior Warden being absent,
th~ Junior Warden took the chair, (as it was not only his right, hut his duty to
do,) and proceeded to confer a degree. Sundry Past Masters present protested
against this action asserting that he should have called some one of them to
perform the duty ; 'and appealed t~ the Grand Master for the correc!ness of their
claim. He of course pronounced 1t baseless, very properly declarrng not only
that the Junior Warden had violated no law, but that he deserved comm~nd.a­
tion for his ability to perform the duty which rightfully devolved upon him ID
the absence of the senior olllcers. At the next meeting of the Lodge, the Master, JOHN KLINE, was present and denied _the correctness of th~ Grand Master's ~e­
cision, pronounced the action of the Jumor Warden u!lmasomc, and censured him
in open Lodge in such terms as to cause great confus10n ; whereupon the Master
took the Charter, without ceremony declared the Lodge closed t.ill the ~ext
meeting of the Grand Lodge and left the hall. Charges were preferred agamst
him the Grand Master orde;ed the trial to take place in his Lodge, according
to the usage of Kentucky, and the Lodge acquitted him l We arc pleased to
see that the Grand Lodge reversed the decision and exp~lled Master Kr.INI!:.;
and we think that the Lodge escaped on very easy terms with the order that 1t
"be reprimanded by the Grand Maeter, in writing, and that it be required to
enter said reprimand upon its records."
The Report on Foreign Correspondence was presented by the Gra'.1d Secretary,
Bro. J. M. S. McCORKLE, and is a very excellent review of the proJeedmgs of every
Grand Lodge in the United States, save one; he having had the unusual good
fortune during the past year to receive all except those of Kansa~. Bro. McCti~­
KLE thanks us "for the able defence of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky," &c:, in
our report of last year, relative to the election by the Lodges of representatn:es
in the Grand Lodge, when the proper officers could not attend. We thank him
for the courteous manner in which he is pleased to speak of us in this and other
respects but can scarcely claim any credit for defending that Grand Lodge.
We wer~ only supporting a general principle, according ~o. our knowledge and
poor abilities and were well pleased to see that our opm1ons were consonal!-t
with those or' a body containing so many intelligent Masons ns cloes the Masomc
Senate of Kentucky. Bro. McCoRKLE joins to ~urs his reprob!'-tion of the. ~ew
"christian test" and we sincerely trust that this great M'somc error, ar1smg
from that which we consider a mistaken religious zeal, will not spread beyond
the two or three Grand Lodges which have now embraced it, and which we hope
ere long to see recant it. It gives us pleasure to see that our brother of Kentucky approves a resolution relative to the so-called "right to visit,'' which he
quotes from the proceedings of Maine last year, i~asin'!-c~ as a refe~ence tp the
published transactions of the Grand Lodge of Califorma ID 1855 will. show that
it had its origin with this committee, and was reported after a notice of the
new Constitution of New York, wherein the opposite doctrine is set forth. ;The
recooonition of the Grand Lodooe of Canada, given by Kentucky at the prev10us
Com~unication, is defended at some length, in answer to the report of the Mnssachusetts committee in 1856 refusing to acknowledge it as a legal body; and
the practice, which has hitherto prevailed in Kentucky, of publishing the names
and descriptions of rejected applicants, is strongly disapproved. Onr regret
that such a usage should exist was expressed in our report of 1856, and 1~e :ire
sincerely glad to see that a resolution presented ·by Bro. McCoRKLE, rescmdrng
the unnecessary and unjust regulation, has at last been adopted by that Grand
Lodge.
.
,,
Kentucky appears to-have "seen the elephant" as far as.a "Masonic Col.lege
is concerned, and the Coinmittee on Foreign Corespondence takes occas10n to
give some words of caution and. advice t!l others 1;1pon that subjec~, d:rived from
her own experience. The last 1Dformat10n relative to her Institut101!- of that
name is contained in a report of its Board of Trustees that" at a nonnnal rent,
for fi;e years,'' they bad leased " the College 1_31~ildings,. both male and.female"!
A resolution was adopted to refund to the Lou1s1ana Relief Lodge, the amount
disbursed by it for the assistance of Masons from that jurisdiction. Propositions

(51]

272

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

were made to amend the Constitutional Rules by allowing Lodges to elect
officers twice in each year, and to ballot for initiation either in the first or third
degree. It was also prcposed to divide the State, and form two Grand Lodges.
The8e lie over until the next Communication, and we shall be anxious to know
bow they will be disposed of. The report of the Grand Treasurer exhibits an
income for the year of $12,767, and an expenditure of $10,474; and there remained in the Treasury, in cash, stocks, bonds, &c., the sum of $22,029. Two
hundred and ~eventy-five chartered Lodges, and fifteen under di~pensation, are
now in eidstence within this Slate, being nine more than our last report announced. The Communication continued five days, dnring which the M.'. W.'.
PHILIP SWIGERT was elected Grund Master, and Bro. J . llf. S. McCoRKLE was
reelected Grand Secretary.

LOUISIANA.
The forty-fifLh Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana was
commenced in the City of New Orleans, on the ninth day of February, 1857,tbe M:. w.., W:.t. M. PERKINS, Grand Master, presiding, and the w.., SAMUEL G.
RISK, being Grand Secretar;r.
The Grand Master, in his Addres~, suggests that his successor be authorized
to appoint deputies to visit, superintend, and lecture the various Lod!reB; announces the is8ue of eight Dispensations to form new Lodges during the year,
one of which was in Nicaragua, bift was neYer organized; and records the succe~s
which has thus far attended the efforts of the Grand Lodge to meet its pay men ts
of the purchase money for its new Hall. He reporLs the suspension of the work
of F011er Mafonique Lodge, No. 44, b;y his order, that body having been guilty
of many rebellious acts, which fully justified the mensure taken ; and states that,
after the order of suspension was issued, a large number of members of the
Lodge, having by a refusal to give up the Charter, and other unlawful means,
endeavored to evade its effect, at last adopted a resolution to withdraw from the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge, and were holding meetings under the pretended authority of some persons who were attempting to revive the lately defunct so-.
called" Supreme Council of the 33d," of Louisiana. At a later period we observe
that the Grand Muster wa~ authorized to issue a new Charter of the same · name
and number to the few brethren of that Lodge who bad remained faithful, and
to take such further steps in regard to it as be might deem proper.
The Grand Secretary, as usual, presents a full and detailed report of the
business of bis omce, from which there appears a laxity and neglect on the part
of the Lodges to make their returns and pay- their dues, such as we are happy
to be enabled to say bas never been known m this jurisdiction.
The annual report of the Louisiana Relief Lodge, shows an expenditure
during the yenr of $1,550, fpr the relief of sojourning J>rethren, their widows
and orphans, of which sum $75 was paid to those bailing from the State of Cali·
fornia. We suggest that this Grand Lodge refund that amount, as it is evidently
wrong to"pcrmit a small association of Lodges to remain our creditor£! for expense incurred in relieving the distresses of our brethren and their families, when
Wi have abundant means to acquit ourselves of the debt. Bro. Fi,;LLows, the
Master of the Lodge, and writer of the report, expresses his regret that se'l'eral
of the Grand Lodges present no lists of membership in their published proceedinirs ; and our own experience of two years, as Chairman of the Board of Relief
in San Francisco, enables us to testify bow useful it would be, were the practice,
now so general, a universal one among the American Grand Lodges. Thirteen
Lodges are now represented in that body, and there are yet eight others in New
Orleans which have thus far declined to aid their brethren in this most commendable association.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by the R:. w.., llf. H.
DossoN, the Deputy Grand Master. It is brief, as compared with many of the
reports for the current year, giving little space to the discussion of any of the
topics which for the past two or three years have occupied the attention of most
of the committees, and which, perhaps, arc wisely thought to have been worn .
too threadbare to permit of further argument. The most space is given to some
remarks on a passage in Grand Master HowARn's Address to the Grand
Lodge of this State in 1856, wherein he expressed his dissent to a proposed

(52)

1858.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

273

amendment of the Constitution, making it requisite that the ]\faster of a Lodp;e
should have previously served as a Warden. This, Bro. DossoN thinks "the
strongest argument he had seen on that side" of the proposition, but it was not
sufficiently powerful to convince him, nor did it last its writer quite up to tb'e
next succeeding Communication of this Grand Lodge. Our own ideas upon this
subject, however, have been expressed in some one of our previous reports, and
we have little to add now beyond the fact that they were, and are consonant with
the action.of the Grand Lodge of this State. Without pausing to enquire into
the fact whether the "old Charges " of 1722, are entitled, as our brother of
Louisiana declares, to more reverence than the " old Regulations " of 1721, we
admit that we look upon them both as the law, so far as they are not manifestly
and palpably inconsistent with the well-being and necessities of the Order at the·
present day ; and it should be no light reason which would induce us to suggest
a departure from any plain and unmistakable direction contained in either. In
this case, however, were the" Charge" as absolute and distinct us Bro. DossoN
thinks it, (even' with an erroneous definition which be has given to one passage),
we have no doubt that a departure from it is perfectly justifiable, and for this
reason: That as the ''Old Charges" were given and received as the laws best
adapted for the government and prosperity of the Fraternity at the time when
they were promulgated, and were intended to operate as useful adjuncts to its success and perpetuity, so now, when a c,entury or•more has produced great changes
in the state of society which made some of those regulations useful and necessary, we may well and rightfully enquire whether an alteration of them in some
instances is not calculated to carry out the good results which were the sole
intent of the original law. When those" Charges" were written there is little
doubt that one who " had acted as a Wanlen" was likely to be the most competent person to ser ve as Master, and the good of the Order was evidently conaulted in the regulation. ls' it necessarily so now? On the contrary, does not
all our experience show that there are frequently those in a Lodge much better
qualified for the Chair than the brethren whom accident or a mistaken partiality
has placed for a season in the South and West? And thus, if the usefulness of
the Institution is really advancf!d, at the present time, by the selection of the
most capable and best informed brethren to preside over and cond11ct its Lodges,
without reference to the stations they may previously have occupied, is not the
spirit and 1intent of the ancient charge effectually maintained, although it be
apparently violated in the letter ? It seems to us that it is ; and in any event,
we do not a·t all jloubt that it is far better for the honor, the utility, the respectability, the perpetuity of Masonry, that an educated, zealous, and intelligen1;
brother of a single month's standing in the Order, should be elevated to the
Mastership, rather than an ignorant, careless, or stupid individual, who may have
been a Mnson for twenty years, and whose only qualification is that by some
untoward misfortune to the Craft be bus been once a Waiden. All this, too, is
upon the supposed proposition that the "Old Charges" absolutely required that
a Master should' first have served as Warden. But there is room for doubt
whether or not that might have been intended to be merely suggestive that
one who bad thus served would probably be the fittest for the higher office. The
fourth of the" Old Charges,"- the one which contains this so-called regulation
-commenceR as follows: "All preferment among Masons is grounded upon
real worth and personal merit 011ly ; • • • • • 'I'herifore 110 Master or Warden
is chosen by seniority, but for his mtrit." Now this would seem to say that a Warden
is not necessarily to be selected from among the eldest of the brethren, but from
rtmong the best of them; and that a Master also is not impemtively to be taken
from among those who have occupied the office next in rank, but from those best
qualified to discharge the duties of the position. This, to be sure, is at variance
with the apparent positiveness of the words which soon after follow - " No
brother can be a Warden until be has pas.~ed the part of a Fellow-Craft, or a
Master until he bas acted as a Warden " ; bnt if the two passages 'cannot be
reconciled to mean that a Warden should be elected Master in preference to any
other brother, equally capable -not for bis " seniority, but for bis merit " -then
we prefer to consult the real good of the Order by acting only under the sensible proposition laid down in the commencement of the charge. A word or two

(53)

274

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

more in reg1trd to that which we have called an erroneous definition by our
brother of Louisiana. He quotes that portio1 of the fourth "Charge" upon
which his argument is based, as follows:-" No brother can be a Warden until
he has passed t.he part of a Fellow-Craft, [that is, has become a Master Mason], nor
Master until he has acted as Warden"; and then adds "If our opinion be correct, it is an innov11tion of the ancient landmarks to install a Master who has
not previously served as Warden, a.i much as il would be to elect a Fellow-Oraft 11
Warden." Very probably, just as much and no more. It would appear from
the plain language of those ancient records, that Fellow-Crafts were the very
Masons from among whom Wardens were chosen, and it strikes us that Bro. DossoN
has interpolated a very original definition to the words "has passed the part of
a Fellow-Craft," when he announces them to mean "has become a Master Mason." If any proof were needed that those words mean simply that a Warden
should hiwe passed to the degree of Fellow-Craft, it is foood in the second line
below them in the same "Old Charge," where it is written that a brother cannot
be Grand Master "unless he has been a Fellow-Orajt before his election," &c. Thus,
if no higher degree was necessary to enable him to reach that exalted office, it
is scarcely probable that it was required to quality him for the comparatively.
humble position of Warden of a Lodge. But this is not left even to any supposition of probability. In the succeeding "Charge," the fifth, it is written that
"when a Fellow-Oraftsman is chos~n Warden of the work uuder the Master, he
Rhall be true both to Master and Fellows, &c.," thus showing that Fellow-Crafts
alone, (and not Master Masons, as Bro. Dos1.<0N has most inventively suggested},
were at that time selected for that office. To close the argument, it is only necessary to say that in the days when the "Old Charges" were set forth, we do
not hear of the degree of " Master Mason." Entered Apprentices were made
in the several private Lodges, and they were Mas(}tls. The degree of FellowCraft was conferred in the Grand Lodge, (when it was established), and from
among those the Wardens and Jfasters were seleeted; and the last,-mean!ng
the Masters of Lodges, - were chosen from among those who had served in the
office next in rank, for the good reaeon that in those days they were beyond
doubt the most likely to be the best qualified to perform the duties of the office.
Bro. DossoN is an advocate of the recognition of the new Grand Lodge of Canada, but the Grand Lodge of Loni8iana resolved to "withhold any expression of
opinion for the present " in regard to that question. A "Committee' on Work"
wa8 ordered, to consist of five, with the Grand Master for its chairman, the
members of which are to serve in that capacity as long as they remain members of
tjie Grand Lodge, and preserve their good standing as Masons. 'l'he "Universal
Masonic Library," edited by Bro. RoBJo:RT Mo1rnrs, wa~ most deserredly recommended to the favorable consideration of the Fraternity in Louisiana. A proposed
new Constitution was submitted, which, under the regulations, lies over umil the
next Annual Communication ; and 11 uniform code of by-laws for the Lodges
was adopted by the Grand Lodge, which was recommended to its subordinates.
A very interesting address by Bro. C. SAMORY, relative to the late Supreme
Council of the 33d in New Orleans, is appended to the published procerdings.
This gives a history of the origin in the Unitell States of the "Ancient and Accepted" or "Scottish" Rite, and explains the rensons why, when convinced of
it3 error, that organization in New Orleans yielded its pretensions to the lawfully
established Supreme Body of that rite whose seat is in the Valky of Charleston,
South Carolina. The financial reports show that the receipts from all sources
during the year were $19,2~8, and that the disbursements were $20,7 49. Of
these last $16,213, were for pnyments on account of the Gmnd Lodge Hall, and
there Rtill remains $4,106 in the Treasury. Ninety-nine chartered Lodges and
six under dispPnsation now appear as existing upon the r.el{istry Qf' Louisiana,
being four more than our last report exhibited. The Communication continued during eight days-sessions being held only in the evenings-and the
Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected.

MAINE.
The Grand Lodge of Maine commenced its A~ual Communication for the
year 1857, at the City of Portland, on the fifth day of May-the M ... W'.· JABEZ

]54]

1858.]

'lJRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

275

TRUE, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W. ·.IRA BERRY being Grand Secretary.
The G_rand ~faster, in his Addre@s, recommends the compilation of a work
on Masomc ~ur1sprudence 1• for the guidance of that juriediction, and we perceive
that a committee. was appo1~ted either to prepar~ or select one. He gives an accou_nt o~ some difficulties with a border Lodge m i~ew Brunswick, in regard to
which his successor was afterwards requested to correepond with the Grand Master of England; and, after S<?me space devoted to matters only of local conseque~ce, ~nnounces the issue of four dispensations for new Lodges and declines
a reelection.
'
The Report on Foreign Correepondeace is presented, as it has been for several years past, by Bro. CYRIT. PE.&n.L, one of the Grand Chaplains of this Grand
Lodge. Like all the papers from his hands which we have seen it is well written. and courteo!lsly worded, ~ieplaying none of that violenc~ of expression
~~1ch has eomet!mes occurred m reports from other jurisdictions; and this year
it is ~evoted entirely to th~t ~hich seems t? 1;1s to be its proper purpose. Jn a
prcv10us report we have mt1mated the op1n10n that Bro. PEARL has at times
tra!eled eom~"'.h~t ou't of the record, but the good natured manner in which he
notices the cr\t1c1em, though we still b~lieve it to be just, makes us rather sorry
that we gave 1t utterance. He serms m favor of the recognition of the Grand
Lodge ?f Canada, b~t •. upon his motion, a reso!ntion was adopted deferring the
express10.n o~ any opm10n by the.Gmad Lodge upon that snbJeqt, until the next
Commumcat1on. An argument 1s again offered in favor of the establishment of
a Gener!11 Gr~nd Lodge, and a resolution was passed instructing the Committee
on Foreign Corresp~adence to address the various Grand Lodges of !he United
States upon that snbJect.
~he su~ of fifty dollars was voted to the chairman of that committee for his
services ; eight Grand Chaplains were appointed_; and all the ten District Dep~ty Grand Ma~te~s ~re~ented reports-the last bemg a very unusual occurrence
111 m,ost of the Jurisd1c~10as where that system prevails. From the Grand Treasurer ~ report the receipts for t!;ie year appear to have been $1886, and the ex~end1~ures $2930, leavmg a small balance due that officer ; but there is a charity
fund, m. stocks ~nd cash, of $64-16. Seventy-seven chartered Lodges and three
under dispensation now appear upon the registry of Maine, being two more than
we la~t reported. The Grand Lodge was three days in session during which
the M,., w.., R~11ERT P. DuNLAI' was elected Grand Master, and the R.". w. .. IRA
BENRY was reelected Grand Secretary.

MARYLAND.
We ~ave from this Grand Lod!fe t~o pamphlets,-the first containiag the
proceedmgs at the Annual Commumcat1on commenced in the City of Baltimore
°,n the seventeenth. day of November, 1856, when the M.". w. .. CH.&RI.ES WKBB
Grand Master, presided, and the R.·. W.·. JOSEPH RonINSON was Grand Beere~
tary-an~ t~e second embracing sun~ry special meetings, and the Semi-Annual
Commumcat10n b~gun at ~he eame City on the eleventh day of May, 1857.
On both occa~10ns a brief Address waR delivered by the Grand Master. ln
the first1 Grand Master W1rnn ~nnounces the issue of one dispensation during the
P.receed!ng half year, and declmes being a candidate for reelection to the posit10n which for three years lie has Eo worthily occupied. In the second, Grand
Master McKieNN~Y presents a few excellent remarks upon the physical mental
and moral. quahficat10ns of candidates for initiation · very concisely a~d properly describes the purpose of the ballot for initiates'· and recommends to the
Lodkges the " Code of Masonic Law " prepared by Br6. ROBERT MoRms, of Kent uc:g,
he Report on Foreign Correspondence at both Communications was prese!lted by Bro. JoHN S. BERRY. Owing to a lack of time as atated by the committee, the ~roceedings of ~he vari?US Gran_d Lo~ges are 'not reviewed, Beriatim,
but a f~w ot the most promment pomts of d1scuss10n and difference among them
are noticed an~ ~omme~ted upon. That pernicioul\.doctrine of so called "cases
of emer~enc!, is ve~y Justly rebuked ; a most sensible interpretation is given
to certain ot the Ancient Charges relative to :Masters and Apprentice~; and dis-

(551

276

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

approbation is expressed in regard to some of that legislation, ~bicb ";~ hav.e
lately seen and have more than once commented upon,-denounclilg the retail
traffic in al~obolic drinks," and a.sserting the practicability of " the stern morality of Masonry." Bro. B~RRY 1s oppos:d to any .comp.ulsory process. to force
Masons to perform their duties, and an amiable ~nd ~ngem~us arg~ment 1s offered
to prove that the belonging to a Lodge or contr1butmg to its charity fl!-nd. s~ould
be left altogether to the conscience, (or lack of consci~nce) of ~".ery md1v:1dud
Mason. We are not convinced of the correctness of this proposition. Wlnle, as
we have before written we do not think that tbe•barsb measures adopted by
some Grand Lodges are Just or reasonable--extending, as they do, to susp~ns!on
and expulsion for non-affiliation and for non-payment of d~es-tbu~ pumsbmg
these misdemeanors in Masonry in the same manner as the highest. c~1mes kno:wn
to its laws -we do think that the deprivation of those Lodge privileges wlucb
the non-affiliated Mason refuses to contribute to support, ~ommends ~tsel~ ~o our
every sense of justice and of right. The Massachusetts view of tbe.1lleg1tlmacy
of the Grand Lodge of Canada, is adopted b:y the Maryland committee, but we
do not perceive that any action upon the subject has yet been bad.by the ~rand
Lodge. The position taken by the Grand Lodge of New York, ID refuslilg to
submit to the somewhat officiously offered arbit.rament of the. G;and L.od¥e .of
Pennsylvania, between the former and the rebell10us Lod~es w1th1D her JUr1s~ic­
tion, is heartily approved ; and th_e rcpo~ts conclude with ~ recommendat.10n
that the Grand Lodges adopt a umform size (octavo) fo; their sev:~al I_>Ubhcations. This is the form in which the published transact1.ons of C~htorma ?ave
always appeared, and as the republication ,of our first five years proceedmgs,
lately prepared by the Grand Secretary, have been sent to all.the Grand Lodges
with which we are in correspondence, our brethren abroad will have an o~por­
tunity to see the manner in which it is intended to perpetuate the records of Masonry in this State .
•\ special meeting of the G~and Lodge 'Yas held on the tent~ day of ¥~rcb,
1857, for the purpose of escortmg the rem ams of Bro. E. ~· KANE, on th:u passa e through the city from the South. A plan for enlar~mg the Masol!'1c Hall
befonging to the Grand Lodge was adopted, and a committee wa.s appomted to
carry the proposed enlargement into execution, at a cost not to excee? $2~,000.
An excellent report was presented by the Grand ln~p~ctors for the .City of ~al­
timore in which we are pleased to see our own opm1ons confirmed, regardmg
the all~ged necessity. that a Maste_r must h:'ve ~erved as a Warden. The very
proper and as we thlilk all-sufficient quahfication for the occupant of that position ls given in the fe~ words-that " he should at all tiI)'.leS be th,e most int~l­
ligent moral 1md zealous Mason of the Lodge." The Treasurers account m
May. is57, showed the receipts during. the preceding half-year to h1w~ b~en
$2226, and the disbursements, $1487, with a balance, In the ~reasury of ii:i2036.
The Grand Charity Fund invested r1mounts to $20,887: T.h1rty-two char.tered
Lodges are now existing in Maryland. The Co~mumcat10ns euch contmued
during three days, sessions bein!l held in the evenmgs only ; and a,t the Annual
one in November 1857 the M.·. W.·. J. A. McKENNEY was elected Grand Master,
and the R.·. W.-. JosEPH'RoBINSON was reelected Gra.nd Secretary.

MICHIGAN.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Michigan, for t~e year
1857 was held at the City of Detroit, commencing on the fourteenth day of
Jan~ary-the M.-. W:. GEORGE U. MuNRO, Grand Master, presiding, an~ the R:.
W:· JAMES FENTON being Grand Secretary.
' The Address of the Grand Master is eomparativel1 brief. He announces the
issue of three Dispensations to form new Lodges during the yeari and pr.esente
seversl applications for others. He asks the G;rand Lodge to d~c1de relative ~o
the proper course to be pursued by the Subordmates whe? ap~lied to for admission by those belonging to Lodges held .under the aut~ority of the Independent
Grand Lodge of Canada· but we perceive that no act10n was had upon the suggestion, further than that the committee to whom it was refe;red, reporte~ a
recommendation that the matter be again referred ttJ the Co.mm1ttee on .Jfore.1gn
Correspondence, with instructions to report at the followmg Commumeat10n.

r56l

1858.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

277

Bro. MUNRO also requests the Grand Lodge to decide" whether, after a candidate
has been elected, he can be rejected, and objections raised by a brother who was
not present when the ballot was passed," and also whether " it is proper and
legal, after a ballot has been passed at one regular meeting, at the next reirular
meeting to move a reconsideration of the vote, and pass the ballot again.ff So
far as the first question concerns a candidate for the initiatory degree we understand the received opinion to be that any member may veto his initlation as
peremptorily as he might have done at the ballot; but for the subsequent degrees, different opinions are held by Masonic writers-some asserting the same
imperative right as in the first, and others, more correctly as we think declaring that, as the applicant is already a Mason, he has certain rights which are
not thus summarily to be 1lisposed of, and that in such cases- some examination
should be bad in regard to the rea8ons of the objection. As to the second question, it needs no argument to show the impropriet:y of the proposition, as were
it admitted, a Lodge might go on balloting for, rejecting, and reconsidering the
ballot for the same candidate at every regular meeting for a whole generation.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented, as during the two or
three years preceding, by the Grand Secretary, Bro. JAMES FENTON. It is rather
short, giving little more than the names of the various Grand Lodges with a
few quotations from some of their proceedings. The only opinion f~om the
Committee which appears to have been offered in the report, is a recommendation that the Grand Lodge of Kansas be not acknowledged, upon the ground "that
the true Masonic law does not recognise the right of any but sovereign and independent States to form a Grand Lodge." We would be obliged to our learned
brother of Michigan if' he would inform us where that "true Masonic law" is to
be found, or where there is any Masonic law at all upon the subject, other than
the custom which has grown up in the United States with the circumstances
which have created so many new Grand Lodges in the Territories as well as in
the States. Perhaps Bro. FENTON would at the same time give us his opinion in
regard to the consistency of the Grand Lodge of Michigan, which adopts his report, with this recommendation, and in the same publication which presents that
action, enumerates among the Grand Lodges in correspondence with itself those
of the District of Columbia, and the Territories of Minnesota and Oregon'?
Amendments to the Constitution were adopted, requiring a candidate to have
resided six months within the jurisdiction of the Lodge to which his application
was made, to render him eligible i and authorizing the subordinate Lodges to
publish the names of any expelled members, with the reasons for the expulsion
upon the concurrence of two thirds of the members present at the time of' such
action. An amendment which bad been proposed, making all Past Masters full
members of the Grand Lodge, was most properly rejected.
We remark a case where a member of' a Lodge in one section of the State
was trled by another distant Lodge within whose jurisdiction he resided and
was expelled for unmasonic conduct. An appeal was presented upon the gr~und
that none but the Lod~e of which the accused was a member had the right to
try hlm, but the committee to whom the matter was referred reported, corre~tly
as we think, that every Mason was subject to discipline by the Lodge witbi~
whose jurisdiction he had taken up bis residence, and the Grand Lodge, as correctly, adopted the report. The Grand Treasurer's exhibit shows that the receipts for the year were $1923-that the expenditures for the same period were
$1970- and that there remained in the Treasury a balance of $569. Ninety- .
three chartered Lodges and one under dispensation now grace the registry of
Michigan, being an increase of seven since our last report. The Communication
continued three days, during which the M:. W:. LEVI CooK was elected Grand
Master, and the R:. W.·. JAMES FENTON was reelected Grand Secretary.

MINNESOTA.
The fifth Annual Communication of the Grnnd Lodge of Minnesota was
commenced at the City of St. Paul, on the seventh day of January, 1857-tbe
M.-. W.-. A. T. C. PIERSON, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.-. W:. HENRY REYNOLDS being Grand Secriitar~
The Grand Master op~ns his Address with sundry historical reminiscences of

8

[57]

278

.TOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS •.

[May,

the Order. Ile declares the new·Constitution, which was adopted at the Pf4of
cedinp: Communication, to be now in force, it having received the approbaii~
of two tbirdd of the constituent Lodgee. He announces the il!llue of eleven
Dlepeneations to form new Lodges during the yi>ar ; and mentions bis refusal to
grant one for the establishment of a Lodge to work in the German language_
though that fact alone does not appear to be the only reason for the refusal.
He lays down some excellent doctrine in regard to inquiry as to the fitness of
candidates for initiation, nnd the proficiency of applicants for 11dvancemeal;
and concludes with a few judicious remarks relative to the proper keeping of
the records of a Lodge, and the importance of a Secretary's office.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is prescntrd by Bro. GEORGX W.
PRESCOTT. the Grand Secretary elected at this Communication. It is a well pre•
pared, though evidently hurried rnmmary of the proceedinirs of twenty-one
Grand Lodges, and gives ample testimony that when he Ehall be enablld to devote the time necessary to such a labor, the Grand Lodge of MinneEOta will b11
well servfd by her Committee on Fordgn Correepondenc<'. A ~peck of humor
in his writing gives us additional faith in him, and we shall be gl11d to bear lrom
him another year. "We notice," says he, in ~peaking of the tranrnctiona of
Rhode Island, "one very nourishing feature in the method of procedure 'adopt•
cd' by this Grand Body. A part of the mual programme seems to be the forming of a procession and marching somewhere to hear an address ; after which
from' about three hundred' to 'a large number' of ladies and brethren sit
down to 'an excellent dinner,' a' eumptuousentertainment,' or ' the good thing.a
of this life';" either one of which Bro. PRESCOTT se~IJ18 to think rather preferable to t.be ordinary shadowy "refreshments" of modern times. The regular
tion of Minnesota, by which Yotes on trials are given viva voce, arc dirnpprovecl
by him, and he notes with approbation the change made by the Grand Lodge of
California in this respect. At a latu period we perceive that an amendment to
the Conetitution was proposed, by which the better rule of a eecret lmllot is intended to be substituted. The rtport contains a good-humored allusion to ourselves, and we take the occasion to aernre Bro. PRESCOTT that bis explanation, of
the five days' session to which we once alluded, is "sufficient," aud that we
cheerfully," accPpt his apology."
The financial report exhibits a revenue for the year of $1 lOt>, and an expenditure of $726, with a balance in the treasury of $846. Eighteen chartered
Lodges and four under diepensation now exist in the Territory, being ten more.
than our last report preseuted. The Grand Lodge was three days in session.
The JI.·. W.·. A. T. C. PrE11soN was reelected Grand Mastel', and the R.·. W.·. GEO.
w. l'RE~QOIT was elected Grand Secretary.

MISSISSIPPl.

1858.]

GRAND LODGE o'.S' OA.tIFOftNIA .

Gtand Secretaty. It is, with the exception of II. single page, de\'bted to a long
defence of the Bible, which somebody, unnamed, appears to be suspected Of
having attacked. The earnest argument against its being removed from our
altarR seems to us so much a work of supererogatihn, that it is impossible to
II.void thinking of the man of straw which was set up only for the purpO!e Of
being knocked down. 'l'he Grand Lodge ordered the report to be epreud upon
the minutes, "not with the intention of a<lopting the same, e~pecially that patt
which discusses the Greater Light, which we prefer to remain as we received it."
A. report on the subject of proxies was presented by Bro. WM. P. MELI.EN, and
was adopted by the Grand Lodge, which declares that Maoters should only be
represented by Past M11sters-Senior Wardens by Past Masters or Past Senior
Wardens-and Junior War<lens by Past Masters or Past Wardens, Senior or Jcnior; and that the representatives of Lodges must be Past Masters. The theory(>(
this regulation is very good, but we greatly doubt its working well in practice.
Many officers and Lodges will probably remain unrepresenterl in consequence
of the limitation, and many of those which do not, It wyl perhaps be found could
have been better represented bad wider latitude been left for choice,
We are pleased to see that the long services of Bro. ME1.u:ll in the Granit
Lodge h11ve been 11cknowledged hy the presentation to him of a service of silvt r
by sundry of the brethren. It was presented with some flattering but welldeserved remarks by the Gra9d Master, which were responded to in suitable
terms by the rer.ipient. He had been twenty-seven years a member of the Grand
Lodge of Mississippi, during twenty-one of which he bnd served as its Grand
Secretary. From the financial reports, as nearly as we can make out from the
accounts of the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, both of whom appear to
be disbursing officers, the receipts for the year were about S2223, and the expenditures $2856, l~aving a considerable balance due each of them. The register of Mississippi now shows a list of one hundred and ninety-five existing chartered Lodglls, and two under dispensation, being eight more than were named
in our last report. The Grand Lodge was four days in session. The M." W'.·.
WM. R. CANNON was elected Grand Master, and the R. •, W.·. R. W. T, D.1.NIEL was
reelected Grand Secretary.

MISSOURI.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Mis~ouri was btigua ~t
the City of St. Louis, on the twenty-fifth day of May, 1857-tbe M:. W:. BllSIAMIN SHARP, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.·. A. O'SULLIVAN being Grand
Secretary.
·
The Grand Master commences his address with· a lesson upon charit1. He
regrets the failure of many of the District Depnties to perform their duties, and
hopes that in fnture these officers "may find more time and bave more inclination to look after the interests of the Craft in their reilpective jurisdictitms."
He suggests to the brethren who write so many unnecessary letters of inquiry
upon Masonic subjects, to read the laws and inform themRelvee, He announces
the issue of eleven Dispensations to form new Lodges durinit the yenr; and
after a brief review of the present embarrassing condition of the Masonic Col:
lege, most aensibly, as we think, submitd to the Grand Lodge whether it would
not be better to close the concern, and sell or lease the P.roperty.
The Report on Foreign Correepoµdence is presented by Bro. GEORGE Wa1Tco1o1B. lt gives a brief notice of and some quotations from the proceedings 6f
most of the Grand Lodges of the United States i and concludes with a collation
of the opinions expressed by or in those bodies m regard to sundry of the qu~s­
tions which have lately been most discussed. On the subject of non-affiliation,
after reciting the action of or suggestions to twenty-five Grand Lodges, he concludes that

The Grand Lodge of this State commenced its Annual Communication for
the year 1857, a.t the City of' Vicksburg, on the nineteenth day of January-t~
M:. W.·. Gru:s M. Hn.LYER, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.·. R. W'. 'l.
DANJJI. being Grand Secretary.
/
The Add re~s of the Grand Master opens with a diseertation upon the purpoere,
growth and present extent of .FrePmasonry. He states that he has receiVtd the
reports of only eight of the twenty-one District Deputy Grand Masters, and
regrds the mistaken economy of the Grand Lo<lge which h11d depriv<·d that office
of all that was attractive. and thus rendered it difficult to find brethren wlio were
willing to accept it, or, 'having accepted it, who would properly perform its
duties. He announces the issue, during the year, of five Dispensations to form
new Lo<lges; calls attention to the embarra~sed state of the finances; and
strongly recommends to the Grand Lodlle a Geographical and Masonic Map of
the Stute of Mi8~iesippi, r~cently published by the Grand Secretary, Bro. DA!"IET..
He suggests n ch11.ngc i11 the time of mt•eting of the Grand Lodge, so that the
Masters and Wardens who have served during the year may be the representatives of the Lodge~, instead of tlie new officers scarcely a month in existence, aa.
at present .h appens ; or, in default of such change, that the old officers shall
represent the Lodges; and be concludes his AddreSll by declininll a nelection.
T.b e R.~po>-t Qn foreigu Gorrespondence is by Bro. R. W. T. Duu;L, th<1

"Probably the true ground is that laid down by OL1v1m, MACKEY, anrl others, that
a Mason in good standing has a right lo demit, but by so doing he debars himself from
visiting- Lodges, assi•ting in public ceremonies, receivmgpecunlllry aid from the Loda-es
and Masonic interment; but i~ entitled to individual aid and aNialanoe ao a Mallon, and
is bound by all the requiremenll of his obligations."

l5Sl

l59]

280

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA;

281

This has been our own opinion, and in the briefer words that he "shall not be
the recipient of any of the rights, privileges, or charities of any Lodge in this
jurisdiction,'' bas become the law of the Grand Lodge of California. Jn regard
to temperance, the legislation of sundry Grand Lodges is quoted by Bro. WHITCOMB, and we observe that "California says that • temperance is one of the moili
sacred precepts of Masonry-she sanctions no departure from 1his cherished
precept, nor brooks intemperance in any form.'" Now, though some Grar\d
Master or committee may !Jave written 1his to round a period or fill a paragrap._,
we are very certain that, with the exception of the absurdity enacted four yeal'B
ago, when it was solemnly resolved "that the stern morality of Masonry is
practicable,'' &c., the Grand Lodge of California has not mis-spent its time ii:J.
passing ordinances upon subjects which were the laws of Masonry and of morality long before Grand Lodges were ever heard of. The grave enactments of
Masonic legislatures that a violation of the moral law is really immoral, is not
only ridiculou~, but worse, as it may well leave the inference upon the minds
of the uninitiated that the remarkable fact is a new discovery by our Conscript
Fathers, and that the c!mduct of Masons requires especial guardianship in such
respects. We have heretofore expressed our opinions at length upon this matter,
. and are pleased with the conclusion of Bro. WH1TCOMB, "that temperance is
taught by our ritual and should be strictly observed, but we very much doubt
the proprietT or •usefulness of Gmnd Lodges passing so many resolutions upon
the subject.' The question relative to the recognition of' the Grand Lodge of
Canada is briefly noticed, and after enumerating the Grand Lodges which had
taken action upon that subject, so far as heard from, it is declared that there is
no occasion for the Grand Lodge of Missouri " to take any further steps at present." This appears to have been the opinion of the Grand Lodge, as we do not
see that the subject was elsewhere mentioned during its Communication. The
subjects of uniformity of work, and of the proper boundaries of Masonic jurisdictions, are treated in the same manner as the others, but as neither of these things
have much interest for us here, we not now being troubled on the one score or
the other, we simply express the opinion that in regard to the last, the only certain course to avoid difficulty and annoyance is a rigid adherence to the State
or Territorial lines which mark the political boundaries within which the Grarid
Lodge is situated. The report concludes with some remarks upon the . general
J!.lanner of constituting, and the onerous labors of, a Committee on Foreign
Correspondence, which are so sensible that no false modesty shall prev11nt our
copying them in full.
" We think the~present system defective. A committee is appointed, but one person,
the chairman, does all the work, and it is really his report. Frequ11ntly a very incoll)i>etent- or, as m our case, an ioexperiencP.d-brother is selected as the chairmell, and
the report is anvthing else than a review of the workings of the Craft. Some hobbyhorse 1s mounted.-some one idea is got after and chased to the end of the reportwith little benefit to the wciter, and much less to the reader. Sometimes it is of the
snapping-turtle order, like that of our brother HACKJrn, of Indiana, or is as misanthropic
88 the one by our Delaware brother, who must have been very bilious when he wrote it.
The pl11n we suggest is the one adopted by South Carolina, California, lllinois, Michigan,
New Hampshire, New Jersey, Oregon and Vermont, to make the Grand Secretary
chairman of the committee; or, what would be better, because more simple, either to
Jet him make a report on Foreigu Correspondence, or, if the duties would be too onerous,
have a Corresponding Grand Secretary for that especial purpose. But, whether the
Grand Secretary makes the report, or it be made by the chauman of a committee, as at
present, let th€m be paid, as they are in Maine, Tennessee, Connecticut, (New York) Rnd
some other State•. We speak from experience when we say that oo one can afford to
faithfully do his duty, analyze the proceedings of the several Grand Lodges, and make
such a report as the brethren ought to have, without remuneration; and we speak freely,
because under no circumstances will we again attempt to discharge the duty.''
From thfil Grand Master's Address to the end of the proceedings it appears
evident that our brethren of Missouri are becoming snilisfied of the folly of their
Masonic College. Something more than $32,000 has already been paid on its
account by the Grand Lodge, besides the funds arising from the sale of scholarships, tuition, contributions of Lodges, &c., and a present indebtedness of about
$6,000 ; and it has just been ascertained that very little, comparatively, in the

education of eleves of the Grand Lodge,. bas been received in return. Every
year their proceedings have teemed with reports from the Presidents of' the
College, Boards of Curators, Boards of the College Endowment Fund, 'B oards
of Trustees,-all sorts of Boards in fact, including constant reports about the
Boarding-house, so that the publications consisted almost entirely of these things ;
and now, sufficiently amused, the Grand Lodge has directed that proposals be
received by the Board of Curators for the disposal of the property. 'fhe financial
repo_rts ex.bibit a reven?e for the year of $5,927 and an expenditure of $6,967,
leavrng still a balance m the treasury of $5,297, most of which was appropriated
toward paying off the debt of the College, and its current expenses. One hundred and sixty-three chartered Lodges and five under dispensation now exist in
Missouri, being an increase of ten since oul.' last report. The Communication
continued during six days. Twenty-five District Deputy Grand Masters and
seven Gt•and Chaplains were appointed. The M.·. W.·. SAKUEL H. SAUNDERS
wa.s elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. A. O'SOI.LIVAN was reelected Grand
Secretary.
Another has been added to the Registry of American Grand Lodges-the
thirty-sixth of the list-and cordially as we last year welcomed the Supreme
Masonic organization of her political twin-sister, Kansas, do we now extend our
greetings to the Grand Lodge of Nebraska.
On the twenty-third day of September, 1857, the Masters and Wardens of the
three Lodges then existing in Nebraska, viz. :-Nebraska Lodge, No. 184, chartered by Illinoi&-Giddings Lodge, No. 156, chartered by :Missouri-and Capital
Lodge, No. 101., chartered by Iowa, assembled at Omalia City; and iu all proper
form, so far as appears from the record now before us, formed and opened a Grand
Lodge for that Territory, and elected and inetallP.d its officers. A Constitution
By-Laws and Il.ules of Order-for the Grand Lodge, and Rules and Regulation~
for the government of its subordinates, were adopted. In the first we are pleased
to see that our Nebraska brethren have profited in one respect by the unlucky
experience of some of their elders. and have left out Past Masters from the membership of the Grand Lodge,/ thus probably sparing tbemsel.ves much future
trouble. On the other hand, we regret the announcement in the organic law
that it is the prerogative of the Grand Master "to make Masons at sight " and
cannot but consider it as unnecessary or unwise, or both. If Grand M.ast~rs, by
virtue of their office, really possess such a "prerogative," as Is claimed by some
then it was most unnecessary to enact that which was already a foregone conclu~
sion. If they do not, was it not unwise to plnce such needless power in bis
bands, and thus, from the highest source, eet the.example of removing the careful
guards around the doors of' initiation which it is, or ought to be the constant
duty of the F'raternity to maintain? What need is there in these days, when in
every State and Territory a Lodge Is to be found within easy reach of all, that
Masons ~hould be made at sight ? If the Grand Master for the time be really a
good Mason, it is not probable that be will ever use the power thus acknowledged, as lie will properly prefer that candidates should pass through the
ordeal oi inquiry among their neighbors and acquaintances, as prescribed by our
general usages. If' he be not, which may sometimes happen, it is not difficult to
see bow dangerous and unfortunate for our Order, the uncontrolled exercise of
such authority may become. The provision is, in our opinion, both unwise and
unnecessary, and we can only hope that naught may occur in Nebraska to make
it more than a dead letter in the law.
•
We reme.rk in the By-Laws a rather stringent legislation on the .subject of
du es. The designation of their amount and the times when they are payable, in
the by-laws of the Lodge, is properly declared to be a sufficient notice to each
member. But it is further ''made the imperative duty of the Master to cause
the Secretary to enter 'suspended' every member who shall be in arrears and
fo~thwith to notify him of the same; and if, within a reasonable time there~fter
as the Lodge may determine, the member so suspended does not dirnbar"'e hi~
dues, he shall be expelled." In the Rules of Order it is declared that the Grand
Master "shall be the judge of order and debate. When his decision is fairly

[60)

[61)

NEBRASKA.

282

JOURNAL OF PROO~EDINGS.

[Ma:y,

questionable, an appeal may be made to the Grand ~odge i..but s~eh. appeal
must be neither captious, contemptuous, or contumacious. Truth, JUBt1ce and
·candor mu~t be the desiderata in such appeal." We approve the simple decla·
ration that an appeal may be made, for the reasons we have previou~ly given,
but regard the accompanying pretty words as very useless. Who is to decide
whether it is "captious, contemptuous, or contumacious," or whether "truth,
justice, and candor" are among its "desiderata T" If the <!rand Master, th_en
perchance there might as well have been no effort at appeal; 1f the Grand Lodge,
then the ascertainment of its preliminary qualifications is but a waste of time.
Legislation should deal in as few words as is compatible with the ·a nnunciation
of an order. It should be imperative,.not advisory-absolute, not sugge~tivc-au«
ehould never be weakened or rendered doubtful by explanatory accompanimentt.
A single day sufficed for the performance of the labors of our Nebraska
brethren, and the first Wednesday in June, 1858, was appointed for the next
Oommunication. The M.·. W:. RoBl!:RT C. JoRDAN was elected Grand Master, and
the R:. W.·. GEORGE ARMSTRONG, Grand Secretary.

NEW HAMPSHIRE.
The Grand Lodge of this State commenced its Annual Communication for
the year 1857 at the City of Concord, on the ninth day of June- the 1'1:. W:.
ALFRED GRE~LEY, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. HoRAOll: CHASE being Grand Secretary.
.
The Address of the Grand Master is a brief report upon matters only of
local interest. He announces the issue of one Dispensation to form a new Lodg~,
and of another to revive an old one; and notices the decease of Bro. Hi,:~mY
HunBARD, a Past Grand Master of New Hampshire, and of several others, late
members of that Grand Lodge.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence appears to be presented by Bro. B.
M. TrLESTON. It consists principally of quotations from the proceedings or
other Grand Lod~es, and gives very few comments upon th~m by the writer.
Among the few given, we notic.e a most sensible objection to t-he argument of
Bro. SroRER, of Connecticut, that all Masons, whether members or not, should
have the privilege of voting in any Lodge where they may happen to be, up~11.
the application of candidates for the degrees; and of a dissent to the,new Masonul
test in reg"ard to the Holy Scriptures, which has been adopted by two or th1·ee
Grand Lodges, in which Bro. T1LESTON well quotes the ancient regulations upon
that subject. He ontertains the same opinion as ourselves upon the right to
demit and the consequences of such demission; 1md preseQts a resolution reprobating the practice of permitting "cases of emergency," which we are happy
to see wns adopted by the Gran"d Lodge of New Hampshire, aA in all those we
have reviewed during the present year, we have not met one which needed the
correction more. The Grand Master's Address and every District Deputy's re·
port cont>lins a paragrnph announcing the issue of dispensations for emergent
cases-the first naively putting one case upon the ground that it was to the
candidate "a matter of convenience," the otherA saying that "the continued
emigration rendered it necessary," that it "facilitated the work," and that it
was requisite for parties "about to leave the country!"
The financial reports show that there wns received during the year the sum
of $552, and that the expenditures amounted to $306, leaving $1206 in the treaaur_y. Six District Deputy Gro.nd Masters! six Grai;id Lecturers, ~ix Grand Chap·
lams, and six Grand Stewards were appointed, whwh, for the thirty-two Lodges
now existing in the State, may be considered a very libe!'al allowance of Grand
Officers. The Grand Lodge was two days in session, during which the M:. W.·.
G11JORGE H. HUBBARD was elected Grand Master, a.nd the R: . W:. HORA.OE CHASE
was reelected Grand Secretary.

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

288

The Address of the Grand Master is a well-written and interesting paper. He
laments the absence of the fsmiliar faces of those with whom, a quarter of a
century 11go, he used to meet in the Masonic Temple ; adverts to the changes in
the language of the ritual which be says have crept in during that time in New
Jersey ; and reprehendA " that practice which, in unfolding to a candidate the·
secret mysteries of FreemaAonry, substitutes for the tradition, the printed manual
of some perjured Judas, who has betrayed his trust, and incurred the penalties.
of his violated obligations." This is the first time that we ever heard of such a
practice, and if it exists in New Jersey. we cannot avoid the expression of some
surprise that a more active and practical condemnation has not followed it.
Bro. BABBITT announces the issue of five Di~pcnsations, during the year, to form
new Lodges, and one to resuscitate an old one ; and declines a reelection to the
Grand Mastership.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is r.resented by the Grand Secretary
~ro. J OS):PH H. HouGH. It is a brief, but we! -prepared resumll of the transac~
t10ns of most ?f th~ Grand Lodges. He notices the proceedings in our body. in
May, 1856, which directed the rt>turn to New Jersey ef a certain sum of fifty.
six dollars, 8ent to us by Grand Master STEWART, on behalf of that Grand Lodge·
and we allude to it here becau~e Bro. HouGa, at the same Communication in hi~
report n.s Grand Secretary, declares that the money has never been recei~ed by
him. As the Chairman of this Committee is the Grand Secretary of this Grand
Lodge, he deems it proper to say that on the twentieth day of June a month
after the close of the Communication in 1856, he transmitted to P:ist Grand
Mastel'.EDWARD STl!:WART,. (from whom. th~ money came) a draft for fifty-six dollari:i, with an accompanymg commumcat1on upon the subject, the receipt of
which was duly acknowledged by Bro. STEWART in a letter dated on the fifteenth
day of August, following.
We ob~rve in the R~por.t of the R:. W:. T. R. VARic:s:, Deputy Grand Master,
that t~e illegal organ1zat1on cal~ed Atwood Lodge, established at Hoboken,
somc~hmg more than a year before, under the auspices of the self-styled St.
Johns Grand Lodge, New York, has been abandoned, and that its members
were all duly healed by him and have since become members of the regular
Lodge at that. place. So far all was well, but we think Bro. V ARICK.'s p:ood nature led him to commit a grave error when he recommended that the Master of
that spurious body should be acknowledged as a Past MaRter and be received as
a member ~f the Grand Lodge. T~is last evidently thought so too, as the recommendation was not concurred ID. The custom prevails in New Jersey of
· dividing the superintendency of the subordinate Lodges among the first four
Grand offlcors, each of whom reports at the Annual Communication upon the
condition of those within his particular district. The arrangement seems to us a
very _go~d one fo\ a small jurisdiction, m1;1ch better than the ponderous machinery
of D1str1ct Deputies, Grand Inspectors, &c., &c., which, in but few instances that
have come under our obser'l"Mion, has performed a tithe of the duties for which
it waR designed. The Grand Secretary's account shows receipts to the amount
of $112ti. 'J'be only di8hursements mentioned appear in the report of the Committee 011 Blll~, amounting to $442. Forty-nine chartered Lodges now appear
upon the register, bei_ng an .increase of eight since we last reportt!d. The Grand
Lodge was two days rn sess10n, the M:. W.·. Josllil'H TRIMBLE having been elected
Gmnd Maetcr, and the R:. W:. Joi,i.11:1·1I H. Houou reelected Grand Secretary.

NEW YORK.

The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey for the year
1857 was commenced at the city of Trenton, on the fourteenth day of Januarythe M:. W.·. DANil'JL BABBITT, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.•.JosEPH H.
HouGH being Grand Secretary.

The seventy-third Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of this State
was commenc• d at the City of New York, on the second day of June, 1857-th~
M:. W.·. J~u.s L. LEWIS, Jr., Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W:. JAMES M.
AusTr.s bemg Grand Secretary.
We are so m_uch in the habit of pr~ising the published productions of the
Grand Lodge of New York, and there 1s every year so much in its varied transactions that is most worthy of all praise, that we would almost feel a sensation
of _pleasure could we ~nd. au unmason~c decision, an illogical argument, an illwr1tten report, an und1gmlled proceedmg, or even a little bit of bad grammar
by llnding fault with which we might relieve ourselves somewhat of our presenl

(62)

(63]

NEW JERSEY.

I

284

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

repletion with good things. Unhappily for our present state of feeling, we can
discover nothing in the volume no\V before us to satisfy our misanthropic craving, and we are constrained to commence our review of these proceedings by the
declaration that the Address of the Grand Master is by far the ablest paper of
the kind which bas come to our notice during the year. Its choice of subjects,
its manner of treating them, its style, its spirit,-all are most felicitous, betokening the good· Mason, judicious officer and accomplished scholar; and we regret
that the bare summary which we are permitted to give, will afford so little indication of those things, the reading of which has given us so much pleasure ~nd
instruction. In the opening, when expressing the hope that the joyous feelmg
which characterized similar assemblages of our fathers in the olden time, would
prevail at that session among those then before him, he says:"Masonry has two histories-the one, enrolled in its archives, which flood and conflagration have not destroyed- the other, wrillen with the diamond pen of truth upo_n
tbe tablets of the heart, which neither flood uor conflagration can destroy. In both 1s
found inscribed the fact that the General Assembly bas ever been a festal season, where
good will, harmony, and freedom prevailed; and the wise counsels of the veteran, graybearded Master tempered the fiery enthusiasm of the young and zealou$ Apprentice,
and produced those beneficial results which have made it a blessing to the nations."

He deprecates the frequent magnifying of the little diftlc,ulties which will
some times arise in Lodges, into things of mighty moment ; and after giving
instances of the manner in which these occurrences most frequently take place,
well says, "how utterly insignificant does all this appear, in view of the worldwide enterprise before us, and of the mighty host now marching to ·its acco_mplishment." He congratulates the Grand Lodge upon the harmony and prosperity
which prevails within its jurisdiction, and announces that, with a single exception, its foreign relations are not less happy and gratifying. The exception mentioned alludes to the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania. It will be recollected that
we last year copied in full the report of the New York committee, to whom was
referred the somewhat arrogant proffer of that Grand Lodge, to ascertain and
determine whether there was any Grand Lodge in the State of New York; and
we then expressed our opinions in regard to the severe, but just and well-merited
language of that report. · A resolution accompanied it, proposing that, inasmuch
as the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania ignored the existence· of any .such body in
New York, all Masonic intercourse between those owning allegiance to the Grand
Lodge of New York and those hailing from Penns;y:lvania sh<*uld be for?idde~.
This, though a proper, and even necessary conclus10n to the facts set forth m
the report, was laid upon the table from causes which at the time were un~x­
plained to us. We now give them in the language of the Grand Master, with
bis recommendations as to the course which should be pursued in regard to
Pennsylvania:
"It is unnecessary for me to call attention lo the points in difference bel"'.een. us.
Our relations are not changed from what they were at the last Annual Commu01ca11.on.
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania, after an interchange cf fraternal courtesies rangmg
through three quarters of a century, has assumed lo be in doubt as to the exist~nce of a
Grand Lodge in this State, affects to think that t~ere is no regul~r Masonic Frat.ernity left within our borders, aud has sternly forbidden her subordmates from hav1_ng
communication with us. A resolution imposing the same interdict on 01,ir part, was rntroduced al our last Annual Communication , and upon m~tion of a disti'.'guished b~oth- .
er, whose heart still clung with affection to a body fro!" which he h_ad d«;nved ~ered1tary
honors to add to his own well-earned laurels, and with a generosity widely ID contrast
with the indi!l"nity offered him personally, it was laid upon the table.
"In my Judgment the time has now arrived for action upon it. .A sense of self-respect leaves us no other alternative, and the co1.nplai11ts of '?~r brethren th~us.t f~Ol!l their
doors while ours have been left open to receive those ha1lmg from the JUrisd1ct1on of
Penn~ylvania, ought not longer to pass unheeded. We can and ought as sternly to
ignore the existence of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania and its subordinates 1 as they
do ours. But it is not meant !hat this should be done in a spirit of personal bitterness.
Pennsylvania has loo many noble and distinguished brethren to make this aught but a
sad and sorrowful parting between us . When justice shall prevail i~ its couuels, and
a conviction of our existence shall dawn upon our beclouded brethren 1n that State, then
we shall be as prompt and ready to extend the right hand of fellowship as we have been
in the long by-gone years.' 1

[64]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

285

At n. later period this suggestion was approved by the Grand Lodge of New
York, and a resolution, similar to the one above 1poken of, wns adopted, whlcta
suspe11ds all intercouree with Penneylve.nla. The Canadian question is a.gain
alluded to, not with any apparent purpose to 11rge a cb&nge of the decision already arrived at by the Grand Lodge of New York, but with the suggestion
that, as it has been alleged by some writers upon the subject that such decisltltl
wa.s hasty and without sufficient information, 1t might be well, out of respect for
those who, after careful investigation, had presented a difl\Jrent opinion, that the
subject should be again considered, with the additional light which perchance ·
the lapee of time may have thrown upon it. The committee to whom this portlo11 of the Address was referred, reported a resolution that the Grand Lodge of
New York" finds nothing in the Aituation of affairs in Canada, req11ii:ing a
change, at present, of the position taken on this subject last year;" and thi! re!·
olution was adopted. Some excellent suggestions in regard to the work lllld
lectures are offered by the Grand Master; and the manner in which the experiment or the system of District Deputy Grand Masters has operated thus far in
that State, is spoken of with approval. In regard to the "difficulties in New
York," which have so much exercised the pens (rather than the discretion)
of many of our brethren upon committees like thi1, the Grand Master holds the
following firm and dignified, yet temperate and proper language r.--"The 1ubject of domestic dissensions in our Fraternity, has largely occupied the at•
tention of brethren, and the Grand bodies without the jurisdiction, for several yeau.
While we were quietly pursuing our duties and increasing the circumference of our fold,
from year lo year, unconscious of aught to disturb our tranquility, save those liule differ•
ences of opinion which spring up within the houndaries of every Grand Lodge on this
continent, and which passed away with the occasion which gave rise to them, the voice
of lamentation, of syml'athy, of reproof, of remonstrance, ancf even of sarcastic invective,
was by turns sounded m our ears. By far the greater part of the•e, had diltinct allusion
to the difficulties of 1849, hut others honestly supposed that the 1''reemasons of this great
State were constantly rocked to and fro by dissensions, without rrny very definite icfea of
their cause. Confident in the impregnable strength of our position, and conscious ufthe
rectitude of 01u principles and acls, these murmurs had c.-ased lo allract more thRn a
passing allent.ion wi_thin our borders; but it was galling anrl paiuful lo find, when brought
mlo commumon with brethren from other States, that we were oflen treated coldly,
and viewed with apparent distrust and 5Uspicion, from theso suppo5ed domestic difficulties. From time to time, a$ a measure of caution, due alike lo ourselves, and to those
thus affiliated with us, we had deemed it necessary to give notice and warning of the existence of clandestine bodies in the State, having th~ir existence from causes connected
with the difficulties of 1Bi9. 'rhese were, in some quarters, magnified into new contra•
versies and dissensions, and were the sources of renewed comment. For the sympathy
?four brethre.n i'.' other jnr!sdic~ions we have ever felt and expre~sed the warmest grat!lude; for tbetr ttmely aid ID trial we are bound to them by uew ties of fraternal ob1igatio11; fo_r th~ir advice as to the wisest measues fo~ us to pursue, we Are deeply_indebted 1
and their friendly remonstrances have ever met with the most respectful allent1on; nor is
our sense of obligation and gratitude leuened by the fact that we having been clearly
right, they could have scarcely acted otherwise without palpable inconsistency. Bui
self-respect also impels us to say, that we are an indepenaent Grand Lodge, and sell~
.reliance con.strai~s ~· to declare, that w.e feel entirely competent to i_na'.'age our own
tnlernal affairs w1th10 the .P~le o_f Masomc law, and .the bounds of pn~c1plc, to wh~ch
none have adhered more rigidly ID precept and practtce than the combmed Fraternity
of U1is Stale.''

The late effort to effect a settlement of these "difficulties," and the proposed
"Articles of Union" presented by a committee appointed for that purpose at
the last Annual Communication, are considered at some length by Grand Master
Ll!lWI~.
After a notice of the negotiation of that committee with one from the
otb.er body (the Philips' organization,) and of its consequences, he expresses his
willingness to sacrifice some feeling and opinion to promote a- settlement, if it
involvti no failure in any principle heid sacred by that Grand Lodge, or lly the
Fraternity,
"If," >Says he, "there were no other barriers to union, than the two leadinir meuures
discussed-that is, the restoration of Past Masters, and' ~ho disposition of the Permanent
Fund, l should be willing lo concede both for the sake of union, and future peace and har.
mony; the more readily that it would require no abandonment of principle, aod would enly

9

l65l

236

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

demand the relinquishment nflong cherished views of expediency. 'The emmt.ial point of
differenre in 1849, waa the power and right of 1he Grand Lodge .to rut off the membership of Past Masters. This was asserte~l os an uudoub1ed .righ1 by those who now ~om­
pose this body; and was strenuously ~en red by thosi: who went out .f!om ~1s, :--·ho darmed
the right of Past Masters to membership as absolute, inahenable and rndeieas1l>l1' 1 aU1l that
I.bey were as much and ns necessarilv constituent mrmbcrs of the Gran<l Longe, as l\fasteu of Lodaes. lly the Articles propose<l, this ground of absolute and iualienable right,
thus taken hy the sec!'ders, is w~iolly abandoned._ and with it the ~·hole point in disp~!e;
and the ri~ht then r.larmed by this Grand Lodge 1s conceded, ha\'lllg ouly the r.011d1t1on
·anuexcd to it that those who the11 were, or at the end of the year, would bc1·ome Past
Masters should he exempted frum its provision•, so that it should have no retrospectiv11
effect. '1t resolves itilelf, therefore, into a mcrl' questio11 of Pxprdiency, whether this cotY.
dition shall be asseuted to, and of which the Grnud Longe itself is to be the sole judgcand this point in the case, I apprehend, has not been fully considered b,\' tbos" out of the
Grand Lodge in its bearing< upon the future. As it l'espe<'IS the Fund, wbateyer may he
the view token of the propriety .of the transfer proposed; l ha\'C r,ver 1·laimed that the
great principle so long and so triumphantly ron~ended fof, aud, now conrt>ded, should not
6e iufluence<l or r.ontrolled by any mere peru111ary consideration; and ham ht>eu, therefore iudilforenl as to the result in that resper..t, as affert:ng the question of union. It
should uot be •aicf of us by the Masonic world, that our past differences had been created or perpetuated by a •orctid lo\·e of m911ev.
.,'Hut J am roustra111ed with equal fraukuess to say, that these two features in the Ar·
ticles are not the only ol>stacles to the proposed nniou. · There are others, which should
be carefully weighed and srrutinized before they rerei\·e the affirmative action of"this
Grand Lodge, lest it forget it~ owu dignity, ~ud violate well-established principles of
Masonic law. In an honest and laudable desire lo be fraternal, let us not .forg~t to be
Masonic. And haviug thus iuvited attt•ntion lo the su!\jrct, it will he unneressary to
enter further into detail. 111 dismissing this topir., it is due to it to remark, that it should
be wholly abandouet.I if it be sut1slnr.torily shown to be pronuotive of ali~nation of' feel·
ing. and unhappy divisious in our own bo1ly, or afford well-grounded ronfidetire of pardon and amnesty lo offenders in the fulnre. A desire lo secure a Ju.tu.re good should not
be made destructive of prese11t peace and trnnquility, or be sub\'ersive of sound princi~
pies of goverume111."

'1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

287

the recipient that after his death it may be returned to the Lodge from whence
it emanated," we do not approve ; and this for·reasons which will readily suggest themselves to most English ancl American Masons, and which we briefly
mentioned in our last year's report. The opinions of Bro. Kum upon these
propositiot1s, approving most, and not rejecting any of them, were adopted by
a form,il resoh1tion of the Grand Lodge. Considerable space is given to a
review of the proceedings of California, and, while "the greatest confidence in
the intelligence and sagacity of our brethren" here is expressed, the rapid incren.se of our Lod~es Md membership, "unparalleled in the history of any jurisd iction of equal population," is sng~estive of "apprehensions that unpleasant
consequences may ensue t.herefrom.' What may be in the future none of.us can
foretell, but so fat• as the present is concerned, we have not a little proper pride in
saying-what we are s11re the friendly interest manifested by the New York
committee will induce them to henr with pleasure-that, so for us our information extenrls, there is not n jurisdiction of equal extent in the United States
which has less difficulties among its members, so few misunderstandings among
it.s Lodges, so little violation of the laws ot' its Grand Lodge, and so uniform a
system of work throughout its territory, as has this one of but eiglJt years'
growth, though now comprising one hundred an<l nineteen exiRting Lodge~. For
the flattering manner in which the humble labors of this committee arc noticed
by Bro. KING, we offer thanks - " Approbation from Sir Hubert Stanley is praise
indecil." He furuishes an abstract of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge of
California upon the memorial of H,twa.iian Lodge, No. 21, in regard to t!ie socalled Lodge" Le Progres de l'Octanie." at Honolulu, presented in 1856; and, ap·
proving the report of a committee upon that subject, which wns adopted by the
Grand Lodge, uses the following language : ''As that Committee proceed lo stale . that Lodge mu•I he juclg·cd of by the laws of
the Grand Orient. A r.opy of the Constitution of that body is before us, and arti1·lc 22d
pres~ribe• , thnt' The cPssation or the work of a Lod~e, carrie• with it, of right, the suppressiou of nil tho other hod1es of which it is the bas .. , but wirh a delay that is fixed l>y
geueral stalules, the J,odll'e becoming thus exti1wt. will he permittecl to unite with another
Lodge by the consP.nt of the latter." The statutes of the GrHnd Orient are not hefore
us; but if we may be allowe1l to II educe a conr.lu•ion from this lan~uag-e , the Lodge becom1is extinot on tho oe•sation of its work. anrl can 110 mnro revive n·rtbout the consent
of the GJ'8nil Orient than if it had never exi•t~1l ; e~pecially i• this the ca.<e, where, ns in
the pre•ent inilance, all the members unite with another Lodge. We ho.ve little doubt
that the Gran•I Lodge did right in the course they pursued."

The committee on the Condition of Marnnry, to whom this portion of 1he
Address was referred, conclude an excellent report upon the su!Jject with a resolution that" the nrfcles of union agreed on l1y the Committee for the adjustment of Masonic Difficulties io the State of New York, <lo not mee.L the· approbation of this Grand Lodge";. and the resolution wns adopt~d by a very large
mojority. Attention is called !Jy the Grand Master to thu Mnsonic Board of
Rdief recently established in the City of New York, a report from which will
be hereafter noticed; and to the subject of a Masonic Asylum. in regard to
which au able and interesting report was subsequently presented. He !Je~tows
a glowing tribute upon the me.mory of our lt\te distinguished !Jrother E. K.
KANJC, and announces the eulogy afterwardd pronounced before the Grand Lodge
upon bis life antl chnracter. He refers to the proposed compilation of n history
of Marnarv in New York, which hod been entrusted at the 11tst Communication
to the ven~rable nml Reverend Bro. S.\l.EM Towx, and expresses his reii:ret thnt
the inttrmities of advancing age had compelled that brother to dt•cline the ta>k.
Ile recommends the prepuation ol' a undorm code of by-laws for the Lodges, the
establishment of a system of rules to be observed in trials for Masonic offences,
and the mot·e careful collection uud publication of Masonic statistics; nn<l co,ncludes his admirable address with sorm• details of' the local transactious growing
out of the duties of his office during the year.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is, us heretofore, from the untiringp2n of Bro. F1NL\Y M. Kllm. the late and present Senior Gmnd Warden of that
Grand Lodge. That fact alone contains sufficient commendation of the paper,
itlid we shall not, therefore, examine the dict.ionllry to find adjectives expreEsive
df our continued admiration of his labors. Its earlier pages are <lc\•oted· to an
examination ot' the ten fundamental propositions submitted by the Universal
Masonic Congress, the proceedings of which (thanks to Bro. Kum) were gh·en
in full in our last report. To bis conclusions concerning them we cordially sul>BJti!Je, except in ·So far as hiR npproval of the third proposition would Eeem to
ir.clut'e the whole of it. The portiou of tbat proposition which prcecribes tbat
a diploma should contain "a testamentary formula, setting forth the d e8ire of

In anothPr place will be shown the efforts.which the writer of this report has
made to procure information upon this subject from the highest quarter-the
Grand Orient of France itself,-though thus far they have been inetfoctual.
We confess ~ome surprise at seeing a considera!Jle amount of laudation bes'towed by th1! N11w York Committee upon the Grand Lodge or Rhode falnud,
hecau~e it had adopted a resolution forbidding the conferrinir of "more than
one degree 011 the sam ~ candidate, nt one meeting, unless authorized !Jy DiFpensatiou from one of the !lrst four officerR of the Grand Lodge." We ht\d been
ignorant enough to suppose that the proposition contained in the resolution
(except the four dispensing powers) was the general law i and had no idea how
much our own jurisiliction had rendered itself liable to htgh commendation, for
having observed it from the beginning. Our brethren of Iowa seem to he in
rath~r bad luck. It is but a year or two since a report ot' one of her Committees
on Foreign Correspondence was somewhat roughly handled by many of the similar committees in other States, and was, indeed, manipulated to some extent,
though tenderly, by our•el ves; and we now see Bro. Kum very properly objecting to that portion of another, which speaks of one of his reports as it would
"ot' a dose of medicine that. had been administered to a patient-that it runs
through tlfty-fonr pages," &c. The report concludes with the offor of· three reso·
lutions-the flrdt relative to the propositions of the Universal ~fasonic Uougress,
which, as we have already stated, was concurred in,-the ~~cond recognizing
the Grand Lodge of Kansas, which was adopted,-and the third proposing the
appointment of o. committee to collate and publish the transactions of' the.Grl\nd
Lodge of New York, from its organization to the ·present day, which we are
eorry to see wq.s lai<l on the table.

(66]

[67~

288

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

A ceremony of much interest to the Fraternity in our jurisdiction occurred
during this Communication. It will be recollected that the proposition ~
Grand Master Ev ANS, of New York, relative to an interchange of Represen•
tives, made some two years ago, was cheerfully accepted by the Grand Lodp
of California, and that the then Grand Master,.Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, wae
authorized to name some suitable brother to represent us near the Grand LodA"
of New York. In pursuance of this authorization, Bro. HowARD selected for that
purpose the R. '. W.-. JAMES W. PowELL, Past Grand Secretary of that Grand
Lodge, ,not only l>ecause of his high rank in that body, and of the deservedly
high esteem in which he is held by its members, but as an evidence that the
kindly services which in days bygone he had so generously rendered to this
Grand Lodge were not forgotten. The appointment was accepted by Bro. Powl!:LL, and in presenting his credentials to the Grand Master of New York at this
Communication, he addressed him as follows:" M.·. W.•. GRAND MASTER:
"1 eame here this evening to present my credentials as the accredited representatiVI!
of the M.·. W.·. Grand Lodge of California near this M.·. w ... Grand Lodge. Should
you recognize and acknowledge me as such, henceforth it will be my high privilege to
discharge the grateful duty of cultivating and strengthening the bonds of friendship and
brotherly love, which now so happily subsist between both Grand bodies.
" No position in the gift of my Masonic brethren, throughout the entire nniverse, could
be more acceptable to me ; and while I feel convinced that this important and honorable
trust might be confided to others, more capable of upholding the dignity and doing justice to the sentiments of benevolence which actuate the M,'. W.·. Grand Lodge of Cal•
ifornia, yet am I sure that none could approach this Grand Lodge with a more lively
sense of past favors, and a more earnest desire of fulfilling the pleasing duties which ii
imposes, with zeal, alacrity and fidelity.
"1 feel, sir, a pride, nn honest pride, in being thus, unexpectedly, singled out in my
retiracy, by that M.·. W ·"Grand Lodge. I accept the pos1tiou as an lionorable testtmonial of their approval of our former connection, and indeed it is so nominated in the
l>ond. The kind expressions of friendship which 1 have at the &ame time recei\'ed from
Grand Master How ARD, renders the appointment more peculiarly gratifying.
"The Grand Lodges of New York and California have many thrngs iu common, and
though separated by space, are already united by the electric cord of sympathy, and
will lie, ere long, I trust, territorially bound together by the iron rail of progress. Each
•lands, as it were, at the very threshold of our national enterprise-the one l'ElCeivinginto
its noble bay a world's marine-its ships whitening every sea, carrying the blessings of
civilization to the remotrst ends of the earth; the other receiving into its lap the rich
treasures of its own golden \'alleys, and soon to receive the richn treasures of a/reat
Asiatic commerce. Here, then, in those two great entrepots of the Western worl , our
brethren from at home and abroad are ever passin~ to and fro. At one time thrown
upon our shores by the Atlantic's broad billows-ag:am wafted by the more ll'entle waves
of the placid Paciiic to the auriferous sands of California. Often in the vicissitudes a~
uncertainties of lite, mutually appealing for a helping hand-but never appealing in vain.
No two States are thus similarly situated, and if Providence has signally blessea us, we,
on our part, cheerfully bear the burthen which it imposes ..
"It is a glorious thing, M.·. W.·. Sir, to represent the Grand Lod~e of California-the
infant Hercules, or rather let me compare her to the goddess, springmg fully armed and
equipped from the head of imperial Jove, not Minerva-like, clothed in the panoply of
grim-visaged wa.r, but robed in the white garment of innocence, encircled in the broad
mantle of Charity, going forth to battle, not with death and destruction in her train, b11t
with healing on her wings.
" When, from the distance, indistinct and scarcely credited rumors arrived of the
wonderful discoveries in our newly acquired territory, all over the land, up sprung the
daring, the ambitious and the enterprising-those who never before endured hunger, exl'osure or fatigue, rushed across a trackless aontinent. Those who had never seen a
ship, boldly committed themselves to the deep, or braved the perilous Isthmian passage;
all bent on oue common goal, all intent on reaching the land of the golden han·est.
"The journey accomplished, their destination reached, they fondly thought all dan•
ger past. Inexperienced, unprovided, in a strange country, they dreaded not the approach of the Angel of Death, Alas, too soou in their midst the pestilence stalked
abroad, and many a daring spirit sunk appalled, for help there was none-ah yes, the
good Masons of California were there, and nobly did they come to the rescue-their
purse-strings loosened-their credit advancecl--t:heir personal exertions untiring, all
freely, volunt~rily bestowed on their suffering kindred, from every clime and from e\•ery
0

[68]

1858.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

289

country, for Masonry knows 110 distinction. Into many a drooping spirit they infused
uew life and vitality, restoring it to health, happiness and activity and ah who shall
say how many of those stricken •011!s, for whom the fiat had gone forth, far 'away from
l~ved homes, far away from those most ~ear to them, found here brethren to smooth their
pillows, to cool their parched lips. even if it were but with a cup of water to soothe their
last moments, and ere they sunk to sleep, or ere their spirits took flight t,; that undiscovered country, from whose bourne no traveler returns, blessed the dav they first saw the
I light.'
"
",I fear, sir, I am trespassing on your kindness, and too long on the indulgence of
the Grand ~odge; bu~ befo~e f concl!Jde, let me, emboldened by your eloquent address
of last evemng. to which I listened with so much pleasure, let me 1 say inspirod by the
ble~se~ Words of PEACE whic~ _issued from rour lips, venture t~ hop~ that the omeu
which 11 held forth be an a'!sp1c1ous augury o our future intercourse. This much I say
for myself, and I may ad~ 111 advance, for the Gran.cl Lodge of California. It is not, I am
awari:, f?r others, as you Justly observ.ed, to rashly·111trude upon our domestic difficulties,
but, sir, 11 must not be forgotten, that rn onr IJour of need we apP.ealed to our sisters for
countenance and support, nor must we too soon forget how1 readily both were accorded.
" A dark cloud of discord, ominous of evil, has hung like a funeral pall over our
jurisdiction. Recently, and as if by magic, hovering above that cloud has appeared "
~entle entreating spirit, a spirit of concelision, of forbearance and hrotherly love. May
1t soon fully .descend into our midst:-iu its descent a~d by its genial influence, dissolving
the last vestige of that sable curtarn. Let u9, here rn our midst erect an altar on it let
us sacrifice all personal feelings, all hatred, bitterness and acrim~ny, and, being' Masons,
let us not be less than men.
'·From every side is heard the sound of' Union,' even those who are its opponents
on the present basis, reiterate the cry. Lei us then at thnt altar, the sacred volnm~
open .before us, the square,_ the level and the trowel, the implements of our Crat\ around
-Faith, .Hope and Charity on o~r banners, on:iblazoned with Wisdol11),Strength and
Beauty, implore the Great Architect of the umverse to open our eyes five us more
light, and guide us to that long sought for basis - long sought, but now' hope to he
soo'.' found. And as the welcome news of Peace and Ma some harmony within our border_s 1s heard thr~>Ughout t~e length and ~readth of the land, all good Masons will rejoice,
with an exce~dmg great Joy, and our sister Grand Lodges, lift111g up their hands, wtll, I
doubt not, with one accorJ, greet us with loud hosannas and fervent prayers that our
happy union may endure for all time, and forever redound to the glory and advancement
of our beloved Institution."

To which the M.-.W.-. Grand ?\faster replied as follows:"RIGHT WoRSHIPFVL 81R,:

"It is with no ordinary feelings of pleasure that r discharg-e the duty which devolves
ueon ~e, of greeting within tJ1is Grand Lodge, a representative from the Grand Lodge
ot Ca\tfornm. And these pleastlraule emotions are mcreased from the fact that she has
chos~n tc;i select.from our body, one of its most esteemecl Past Ofl\cers, who' had already,
by his faithful discharge of an onerous and responsible official duty won for himself a
reputation which re~ects additional lustre upon this Grand Lodge. We welcome your
return to our councils, ~nd to the. scenes of you,r past services and renown, and feel assured. that the future, with y_ou, will be as the br1lhant past. Your credentials have been
exammed, and found to !ie m due .form 1 and you are received and accredited as the R.-.
\V.-. Chand Representallve of California, and will henceforth be acknowledged and respected by us accordingly.
"Nor are :we l~ss gratified. in being per~ittcd to hail a representative from the Grand
Lodge of Cahforma. Her existence as an mdependent jurisdiction, is, in point of timf',
as but. or yesterd~y, but she has already, by. her .so'!nd and discreet Masonic action, by
her faithful and diligent adherence to Masomc principles and by tho learning aud ability
of her craftsmen, taken a distinguishe.d ra.nk amongst the Grand Lodges of the world.
And when you come to us, R ... ~ :. Sir, "'.1th words of fraternal greeting, and sentiments
of brotherly l.ove, ~h1ch we belt.eve to be m consonance with the pulsations of the heart of
that great Jur1sd1cl1on, the)' find m. our own bo.soms a ready aud thrilling response. Happy
nm I to say, that the relat10ns which have existed between our respective Grand Lodges
have ever bee!' of the most ki'!d and .cordial character, and that no cloud has arisen to
shadow the brightness of o.ur fr1endsh1p. Ever may it so continue, and may the Masonic
es.cutcheon. of our you.ng sister State ever be as pure and untarnished as the gold which
glitters amidst her auriferous sands!
"Hut I should be ungratetiII myself; I should evince ingratitude on the part of my
bret~ren aro_und me, dia I not more distinctly and pointedly confess the great debt of
gralltude which we owe to ou_r .esteemed bre~hren of Cal!~ornia. I do 11ot now allude to
lier.prompt and. ready rec?gmllon of our chums as a leg1t1mate Grand Lodge, in a dark
period of our history, but m another respect, which more 11early touche• our better feel-

[69]

290

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

ing. Few of us, hut what, within a few years, have had kindred and friends who were
voyagers to her distant shores, lured by the prospect of the precious metals wilh whieh
her soil was teeming. Many of them were there found sick and in nffiirtiou, and it was
then that our California brethren proved 1h11ir noblo sincerity, prompted by the instincts
of their own generous natures, and guided by the teachings of our institutiou. If a cup
of cold water, administered in the proper spirit, draws down a blessing, how de<l'rving
are they who ministered like hrethren of the same mothe'r to the poor, the destitute and
the suffering from our jurisdiction, literally' supporting the drooping head and hinrling up
the broken heart.' For these acts of unbought kindness, they deserve nnd will receive
our hearts' best gratitude.
"We feel assured, that the system of representation, initiated by this Grand Lodge,
will, as it bas proved in this instance, hind our jurisdictions more r.lusely together 1 and be
productive of the<e good and happ.v re.,uhs whioh its founders so fondly hoped.
••You have been ple:ised, lt.·.W ... Sir, to allude to the unhappy differences in this
State. and to express the hope that peare and union may cluster benco.th the wingii of
the cherubim which adorn our hanner. These hopes and wishes meet a most cordial echo
in my own breast, and as I believe. in those who surround me. Within our own jurisdiction all inceed is pear.e, and the peact>ful triumphs of the Craft nre i>orne as 011 the
wings of the wind. But I do not forget that there are those within our territorial limilS
who are alienated from us. and whom even· lo\'P.r of the institution fondly desires to see
clustered beneath the standard of the ark, our cho•en device, if no sound principle be
violated in affecting it. A peareful, an honorable, a happy-and ht>nce o. lasting union
is what we sincerefy wish, and no efforts shall De wanting on our part to affect it. upon a
proper ba.is, and iu d11e time to enable 11~ to reap that rirh reward-the heart-felt plaud·
tis of our brethren of California, and throull"hout I he world.
"Be pleased lt.·.W.·. Sir, to be seated Ill the East, to which we r.ordially invite you.
and may the auspirious ceremonies of this occasion produre effects at h1siing as the
1ock-bou11d continent which separates us from the Grand Lodge you represent, and as
deep and tranquil as the ocean which laves its western borders.''
·

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

291

Certain n~endments to the Constitution were proposed by Past Grand Master
EvA~S, wh:ch were npproved by the Grand Lodge, and which, if they shall have
re?e1ved the proper vote at the next Communication, will add to the membership of that body " all Past Masters, who were such on the thirty-first day
~f pe?el'.!1ber, 184~. ~nd who nre members of n subordinnte Lodge" under that
Jur1sd1ct1on i. restr1ctmg them, however, llS our own Constitution does to one
v?t~, collect1vely, for enc~ Lodge. This is evidently done for the pu~pose of
g1v!ng one more opportnmty to the other organization to return to its proper al·
ieg111nce ; and,. whil~ it proposes to yield no principle which has heretofore been
contended for, 1t offers a generou~ sacrifice of feeling and opinions .of expedi·
ency to _the hope of a final restoration of harmony. But· little harm can be done
by ~be restornt1on of t~e Past Masters up to the date named, (for those who have
a~r1ved at tha! ~ank.smce, or may reach it hereafter, nre not to be included)
with the restr1ct1on m regard to votes which we have noticed· nod the amendme~ts arc accompanied with the renewed assertion that P~st Masters have
no 1n~erent right to membership in n Grand Lodge, and the declaration that
cxp~d tency and n fraternal desire to consult the wishes of some members of the
Grand Lodge, alone have induced the proposition.
~Ve remark. the ad~ption of the following excellent resolution in reference to
the 1saue of Dispensations to form new Lodges :" Re~ol1Jed, 'l'hat the first three offirers named in a petition for a dispensation sbnll appe~r belore_ lhe Lodge whose rerom.1~i;ndatil'.n is constit utio~1ally necessory, and exhii>it
their work 111 the three drgrees, and 11, 11~ the Judgment of said Lodge, said officer• arc
competeut ~o co1~fer the degre!!s and impart the leclures, the said Lodge may rerorn·
mend the said pet1l1ouers for a d1spe11sation, and not olhl'rwise."

If th is law were universnl ly in force, it would be of incalculable benefit to the
Order. The Grand Secretary reports the issue of twenty.five Dispensations to
o~en. new Lo~gi:s ?u~ini\ the yenr," nnd announces that the registry of Masons
w1thm that Jur1sd1ct1on ts now complete, the number being 24,670 ·Up to the
date of the last returns. The Grand Treasurer states the rt!venue for the year
to have been $l4,753, and the expenditure $14,586 • and exhibits a balance in
the. treasury of $1,680,. besides the P~rmanent Fund, now amounting to $7000
wbtch ls Invested 111 City Revenue Bonds. This great juriediction now comprise~
three hundred ~~d seve~ty-one existing Lodges, being .eighteen more than our
last report exh1b1ted. '.lhe Grand Lodge was five days 10 session and the Grand
'
Mnster and Grand Secretary were l.Joth reelected.

A very excellent report upon sectarian nllu>ions in the devotional exercises
of Lodges, was presented by Bro. FrNLA.Y M. KING ; and tbut we subscl'ibe to
the opinions therein presented may be seen from that which we have heretofore
written upon the subject of the new test which has found favor in Ohio, Texas,
and one or two other Grand Lodges. An able and interesting repo1·t upon the
proposition to establish a Masonic Lifo Insurance Comraay, for the pnrpose of
creating a fund to erect and endow n Masonic Asylum, was presented l.Jy Bro.
DA.NIE!. Ul.LML'IN ; 'the resolutions accompanying It, in favol' or the project,
were adopted; and a committee of thirty-six, among wbicb we perceive many
of the best known and most distinguished members of the Gmnd Lodge, was
appointed to carry it into effect. Bro. WM. H. DnEw, the Grand Lecturer, submitted a report relative to the duties and labors of bis office during the preceding year, which is the best paper upon such a subject that h~s ever com~ to our
notice. It not only displays the zeal and assiduity of the diligent lecturer, but
appears to give unmistakeable evidence of the good scholl\r and nccomplished
gentleman-a union of qmi.lities in such fill o!llcer upon which we heartily' congratulate the Grand Lodge of New'York. A valunble service of plate wns pre·
scnted to Past Grand Mnster JosEPH D. EVA.NS, accompanied byn suitable address
from the present Grand Master, as a. testimonial of the grateful recoll~ction in
which the Grand Lodgo held bis two years' of faithful service as its chief.i and
a eulogy upon the memory of our late d istinguished brother, Dt'. E. K. K~NE,
wns pronounced before that body by the Rev. Bro. E.W. A~nRt;Wd. A resolution
was adopted, authorizing tht: Committee on the Condition of Masonry to ''re·
ceive and consider any propositions or suggestions that mny be presented to
them, with a view to the restoration of harmony nmong all who claim the Masonic name in this State," and empowering them to report thereon at this, or the
next Annual Communication.
Of the seventeen District Deputy Grand Masters, thirteen presented reports,
more or less satisfactory. A long llnd interesting report from the Masonic Board
of Relief of the cities of New York and Brooklyn, at the end of its first year's
labors, appears in the proceedings. From this we find that a constituency, con.
sisting at first of fifteen Lodges only, had increased cluring the year to tw~nty.
eight j tb:i t the r •ceipts from assessments and donations for tl111t period had
been :i;809; and that the di~buraemcnts amounte1l to $579. The Grnnd Lodge
appropriated the sum of $2000, to assist the Boarcl iii its cll!\ritable operations.

The latest in~lligence we hiive f~om. this Grand Lodge is contained in the
proceedings of its Annual Commumcnt1on commenced at the City of Raleigh
011 th,1 first. d.ay of December, 1856-the M... W:. Pu:.i.eANT A. lloLT, Grnnd
Master, .pre81dmg, and the R .-. W.·. WM. T. BAIN being Grand Secretary.
. In J11s Address, the Gnnd Master recommends a trial of t.he system of Dis·
t!·1ct. D~put,r Grnnd Ma.st~~s, nnd we pt•rcelve tbat the recommendation wns carried rnto eftect by the dms1on of the State Into three districh and the appointment for e11ch or an officer of t.hnt name, and a Grand Lecture~. He laments the
~mli.arr~ssment~ a.lready attending the crt•ction of " St. John's College," an
mst1tut1on begmnmg to occupy the same space in the transactions of North
Carolina,. that a similar one has for many years in those of Missouri• and expreBSes his sorrow for the many violations of Masonic duty in that jurisdiction
ns shown by the numerous trials in the Lodges. He disapproves the action of'
the College Agent, n year or two before, who, in return for subscriptions recei'ved
from nortb~m m~rcbants, proposed to make the proceedings of the Grand Lodge
11 sort of ndvertising medium for them, and to introduce them to the favoraljlc
notice of the Fraternity in that State. ; and suggests that the money tbue received
be refunded, and that "blot be erased " from their transactions. Yet while thus
expressing his disapproval of that act, be condemns, in wor<ls but too r:iild for the
occasion, the language employed in regard to it some time since by Bro. WA.Luci.:,. of low~.. H~ urges upo.n the Lodge~ ~he collection of l ibraries; nnd gives
a dec:ded op1n1on m favor ot the recogmtrnn of the Grand Lodge of Canada
which was afterwards endorsed by the action of the Grand Lodge.
'

[70]

[711

NORTH CAROLIN A.

292

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[.May,

The Report on Foreign Correspondence is from the pen of Bro. Wrr,LIAM 0.
DoOB. It does not pretend to give any review of the proceedings of other Grand
Lodges, but briefly descants upon a few topics which were thought most deserving
of attilntion in that jurisdiction, and which appear to be well chosen and well
treated.
We are not much surprised at the violations of law over which the Grand
Master grieves, when we·observe that the Grand Lodge itself virtually commends
the infraction of its own ordinances. The Committee on Charters and Dispensa..
tions, in a notice of sundry irregularities, among others report the following :4
"Pine Grove Lodge (U, D.) has fallen into the unmasonic practice of receiving
petitions, balloting for the candidates, initiating, passing, and raising, at the ~
meeting, which we believe to be the main reason why there are so many ignoranJ
craftsmen in our midst!" A very safe conclusion, beyond all doubt. They al!IO
add, in relation to the by-laws of the B11me Lodge, that "the thirteenth article
requires a brother casting a black ball, to make known to the Master his objections to the applic11nt !" Yet to this Lodge, so ignorant of the commonest 11nd
best known usages of Masonry, 11nd of the laws of its own superior, the committee
recommended a Charter in the usu11! summary style, and a Charter was granted
accordingly I
.
A resolution was adopted instructing the Committee on Foreign Correspond·
ence " to correspond with the Grand Lodges of the other States, and get their
opinions as to the propriety of holding a Convention, to be composed of delegate1
from each Grand Lodge, in order that uniformity of work in the United Statell'
may be had." The Grand Treasurer's report exhibits a revenue for the yea1· of
$1691, and an expenditure of $1725, with a balance of $326 in the ·treasury.
One hundred and twenty-six Lodges now exist in North Carolina, the number
having been increased by ten since our last review. The Communication continued five days, and the Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected•

OHIO.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Ohio for the year 1857,
was commenced at the town of Masillon, on the twentieth dny of October-the
R.·. W:· MERF.DITH D. BROCK, Deputy Grand M&Ster, presiding, and the R:. JV>.
JOHN D. CALDWELi, being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master, the M:. W.·. B. F. S~ll'l'D, was read by the
presiding officer. In it he regrets that changes in his private business had made
it necessary for him to leave the State before his term of office hnd expired, and
would render it uncertain when he should return ; but he presents n detailed
statement of his official acts to the period of his departure. He annonnccs the
division of the jurisdiction into six <listricts, as previously directed by the Grand
Lodge, and the appointment of a District Deputy Grand Master in each ; and
expresses much satisfaction at the result, thus far, of their labors. The title of
these officers was subsequently changed to that of District Lecturers. He atates
that but little has been heard of itinerant lecturers since these appointments, and
indulges the hope that "when our Masonic journalists shall cease to use the word
' regalia,' introduced probablt by these itinerant lights, and fall back on the simple
but Masonic term, ' clothing, their teaching will soon be forgotten and their in"
novations discarded." He reports the issue by him of three Dispensations to form
new Lodges; and, in regard to dispensations of nnother kind, uses the following
flensible language :'

" During the recess of the Grand Lodge, I have had several applications to make
Masons at sight, but in all cases I have declined exetcising the liigh powers conferred
upon the Grand Ma•ter by our Constitution. I can hardly conceive of an emergency
that would, in my judgment, warrant or jnstify the exercise of a power so dangerous
and so liable to 11e ahused when conferred on one man; and I am sorry that it is recog•
nized by our Constitution.''

The Deputy Grand Master also presented a report of his doings as Acting
Grand Master, in which, among other things, he announces the issue of four Dispensations io establi8h new Lodges, recommends the publication of decisions of
the Grand Master, and notices the no\v finished reprint of the transactions of that
Grand Lodge from its organization in 1808 to 1847. This is a valuable volume

f72.l

1858.]

. 298

GRANb tonal: 6F CAtttott~tA.

of elx hundred ~nd_sl~ty-four pages, and we take the oocaslon to express ·out
tbanke for the copl which has bi;en forwarded to the Gr~ntl Lodge of California, and
our hope thnt a similar republication of our own earlier proceedinis which wM
sent to the Grand Secretary of Ohio in Septell:ibet last, may have' reached its
deetlnatt.on. it was orde~ed tb~t the work be continued by the reprint of the
transnct10ns since 18(7, m a like volume. When this shall be completed tht!
Grand Lodge of Ohio will probably be the only one in the United States wliicb
can present Ii complete published record of its nets for an entire period of fiftr
years.
The Report. on Foreign. Correspondence Is, as stated by the wtlters, the join\
production of Bros. W. B. THR.U,L and GEO. R. MoRTON, and this fnct ·is offured as
an apology for some inc~ngrulties of opinion which appear upon Its pages,
Though our brethre!1 of. Ohio have not wasted much compHment upon their notice
of our last commumcat10n to the Grand Lodge of California, we deem it due to
them, and to truth, to say that the report now before us is one of the best we havl!
seen for many a day. We do not mean that all ft.S opinions are the most
sound, or all its arguments the most convincing, as weighed in the humble scale
?f o_ur ow°: poor understanding, for with some of them we have no sympathy; but ·
it gives ey1dence of a ca;ef1;1l and laborious examination of the publications of
oth~r bodt~s; presents 11 Judiciously selected remm~ of their most important transact10ns, mthout recourse to that easy instrument for compilation-scissors · and
?on;iments freely and intelligently upon such portions of them as nppear'ed to
rnv1te a~proval O! condemnation. Considerable space is given to a review of thll
~roc~edrngs of this Grand Lodge at its last Communication, and much commendS.t!on 1e bestowed upon the Address of Grand Master HowARD presented at that.
time. The Mo.some Board of Relief of the City of San Francisco is spoken of in
terms of the highest praise, and some of the most important facts set forth in its
report for the tear 1856, are presented at length by the committee.
Bros. THRALL and MORTON arc somewhat facetious over our disapproval of
that, ~odcrn do~~a of Ohio, which they say we "semi-seriously style the 'new
test mtroduced by that.Grand Lodge. We assure out funny brethren that we
never called anything by its proper name more seriously and had ns Uttle idea
?f any attempt to be joc?se upon that subject as they appear to have had success
rn theirs. But for considerable stre~gtb of constitution, we might have been
render~d eomew~~t n~rvous at learnmg tha~ the courteous and unpretending
cxprees10n of opm1on m our last report, contarned matters so explosive as " amniu!1ition,'' "magazines," and things which "fulminated ·" and was moreover
~!!!listed by "a.rtillery" and a " fusillade I" Under this dangerous and detonating
ata!e of circum~tances, all un.contemplated as it was by us, we heartily join our
Oh10 brethren m congratulatmg their Grand Lodge that it is not much hurt bf
these "vigorous assaults of its anti-biblical opponents." Yet we beg them not to
b.elieve that the las~ name~ adjective properly applies to us ; and we take the occasion to say that their readmg of the very paragraph which seems to have glven
them such ~reat conceri;i, ~h?uld have taught them that it does not. We were
not expressmg any anti·bibli,cal opinion, but were only endeavoring to point out
where the Grand Lodge of Ohio had enacted that which appeared to us a most'
a11ti-111a8onic one. Our faith "in the Divine Authenticity of the Holy Scriptures"
as gi".en under both dispensations, is probably as implicit as that of the ..Ohio
committee ; yet, for all that, we do not believe in the innovation upon the ·timehonored usages and ancient charges of our Order, which requires of a candida~
to make that declaration. Can the Jew make it? Can the Mnhometan? And
ye~ are th el .not both,-believing in the existence of God, as our ancient law prescr~bcs-ehg1ble ca~dldates for, t~e mysteries of Masonry T As our brethren of
Ohio have thought 1t proper to..g1ve a lecture to another committee of this Grand
Lodge upon the subject of " treading down landmarks," because they, with the
Grand Lodge, preferred to see Masters elected from among competent brethren
rather than from per~aps incompetent Wardens, we take the liberty of asking
what they have done with that ancient landmark " Concerning God nnd Religion "
~~ which am.o~g o~her t~inga it is laid down th!Lt Masons are to be obliged oniy
to that rehg1on m which all men agree, leavmg their particular opinions to
themselves; that. is, ~ be good mei;i and true, or men of honor and honesty by
whatever denommat1ons or persnas1ons they may be distinguished!" In oh10

10

t73]

.

'

2J1 .

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

if the new regulation has any mel\l1ing, none but those professing the Cbristia11
religion can now be admitted to the Order. With all becoming reverence for its
holy precepts, and faithful reliance upon its saving doctriues, we cannot refrain
from suggesting the proposition that to require an applicant to sign a pledge of
total abstinence, or declare himself a member of the dtmocratic party, would not
be more utterly at variance_ with the old and well establiEhcd regulations of the
Craft.
In relation to our opinions upon the qualifications for masterEhip in n Ledge,
our good brethren of Ohio do our logical abilities too much honor. "We feel no
disposition," say they, "to enter the liets with one who can 'chop logic' EO ~kil­
fully as Bro. ABELJ,, but hand him over to Bro. How ARD, for retormation. The
Grand Master (Bro. How ARD) convinced Mmulj that he was wrong on this quer.t !on, and we have no doubt but that he can do the rnme with the Grand Steretary without a:d from us." To this we can only rny, that meu not unfrtquentl;t
convince themselves with far greater facility than they can bring conviction to
the minds of others; and that the simple quoting of one portion of an old charge,
(with which we probably were quite as familiar as our tEtecmcd Lrother,) Hpa. rate from the context which is widely diflc rent, was not an argument EO conclusive to our mind as it would seem the Ohio committee think it ought to have
been. Our dirnpproval of the regulation of Ohio, which authorises e::>.pulsion for
the non-payment of dues, meets with little favor. After stating the mage in this
juri£diction in such case-to strike the delinquent from the roll of membenhipit Is inquired, "In effect, in what does the one puniebment differ from the othH ?H
To which we answer, in this-that the first, berng the puniebment infiicted for the
worst violations of the moral or Marnnic law, is a lasting diegrace to its recipi·
ent, and is too severe a penalty for the lessu offonce of' refusing to pay cntaiJi
dollars which he ought; while the second, graduated to the sin, places h.m s:mply
in the position of a non-affiliated Mamo, not entitltd, eitbu for himEelf er Jamily,
to any of the privileges, benefits or charities of the Lodgee, but lrnving it in his
po,vcr at any t:me to restore himself to thoEe rights by nmol'ing the cauF.e which
had deprived him of them. Punishments should be meted out with Eome r~ftrence
to the character of the offence, and as we do not rnpposc that the non-payment of
dues is the highest crime known to Marnnic juriEprudence, we are not willing to
see it puniEhld as if it were. Upon reading furtbu in the report, we find our own
opfalons expressed in that portion which reviews the proceedings of the Distr:ct
of Columb:a---one instance of the incongruities ment10ned in its commencement.
A word more to correct an error iu a name which the Ohio committee have fallen
into, and we have done with thiit portion of their report wh!ch rdatcs to Califor.
nia. The "tilt of the pen " of which they Epeak, in alluding to our not;ce of the
Oregon committee last year, was not with l:lro. AINSWORTH, who was in no wiEe
referred to, and who was the Grand Master of the Territory at that t:me, \Jut with
Bro. STARK, the present Grand Ma~ter, who was then Grand Secretary, and chair·
man of the Committee on Foreign UorreEpondence. We are not surptitcd that our
well-informed brethren of,Ohio present rnme excl11mation points attcr remarking
that the Grand Lodge of Oregon sustained his act:on when, as Master of Willamette Lodge, he assumed the power to suspend a Mason by his own unaided cd:ctl
A case in Georgia is quoted, where Bro. RocJKwEu., one of the Deputy Grand
MasterR, decided that "it was the duty of a Master of a Lodge, . on request, to
attend the remains of a departed brother to the grave, and perform the CPrcmonies of the Ordtr, no mat11r wliut his religious b1li~l in life mighi liave been." This is
approved by the Ohio commit tee somewhat to our surprise-not that we doubt the
ent r~ propriety of the drnision, .but because this approval of it seems little in
consonance with the strictly Christian limits which now appear to circuinrcribe
Pree Masonry in Oh!o. They appear to doubt, however, whether Bro. ROCKWEI.J,
was equally co1Tect in denyin~ the right of certain brethren to attend a funeral
"in Masonic costume, as indiv1duale," when a Lodge was not called out. It Eeems
t > ns that he was, and that it is a good rule to be governed by, that MaEonic
c!othiog should only be worn when its owoers are callld to appear by the proper
Me.sonic autbori1y. Some very excellent comments arc made upon ihe proposell
m w regulation in Ind ana, by which Masters of' Lodges, and the Grand Master,
tc o are made rnlj .ct to tr:al by the Lodges to which they respectively belong;
aLd the impropriety am! probable impracticability of enforcing such an ordi·

[74J

1858.]

295

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

nance is well set forth. A good-humored reproof is administered to Grand Master REES, of Kansas, for the advocacy, in o~e of his addresse.s, of those puerile
excrescences upon Freemasonry, called "side degrees"; and, quoting the language of an ancient Scottish Elder, in reference ton certain pasmge in the Old
Testament, they say, "If it had been the Lord's will, that might ha' been left
out." Another opinion is expre~sed, which of itrnlf would mark the fact, even
were it unannounced, that two pens had been employed in the preparation of the
report. Several resolutions of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee are quoted, nmong
which is one declaring that a candidate shall not be required to expre£s "a belief
in a future state of rewards and punishments"; and all, including this, are correctly regarded as sound decisions, "and in accordance with Masonic law and
usa.ge." Yet, bow can this opinion of the committee be reconciled with the new
test in Ohio, which is still broader in its requirement than tha,.t ignored by Tennessee, or with tho views advanced by themselves in a prcced'ing portion of the
document before us f Thero is much more in this long report, (some fifty pages
of solid Lrevier) which it would give UR pleasure to notice bad we the time to be, stow upon it. Suffice it further to say that while it contains a few ideas which
differ from our own, it. presents very many whi<lh we heartily approve; and tcs
have not felt any alarm at its length, as a paper so well prepared can hardly l:e
too long.
The financial report exhibits a revenue for the year of $8679, and an expend·
iture of $9182, with a balance of $6792 remaining in the treasury. A resolution
was adopted recognizing the Grand Lodge of Canada. Two hundred and forty·
nine chartered Lodges and three under disp3nsation now exist in Ohio. The
Grand Ludge was five days in session, during which the .IJ.·. W.·. HORACE M. STOKES
was elected Grand ]!faster, and the R:. W.·. JOHN D. CALDWELL .was reelected Grand
Secretary.

OREGON.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of tbe Territor7 of Oregon
for the year 1857, was commenc~d at the Town of Salem, on the eighth day of
June-the !ti.'. W.-. A. M. BEJ.T, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. IV.·. WM. S.
CAr.owEu, b~itig Grand Secratary.
The Address of the Grand Master is a comparatively brief, but well written
pap~r.
He notices the adoption, by him~elf and the Grand L3cturera author·
ized by the Grand Lodge, uf the work In use in tb.is State ; and in ragard to it
exp1·esseH the flattering opinion that "none b~tter can be found in any other Grand
Lodgejurisdiction." He m3ntions the case of a Ma'•ter elect of a Lodge," upon
whom the PMt Mastera of this (thp.t) jurisdiction refu8ed to confer the degree of
Past Master, inasmuch as his vocation was dcem3d incompatible with a faithful
and correct discharge of the ro8po:isible duties of Master;" and states that,
approving their r;ifusal, instead of installing .him, he requested the former Master
to continue in office until the meeting of the Grand Lodge. It does not appear
what the objectionable calling was, but, presuming that it was disreputable, cred:t
is due to the Past Mastera an<l the Grand Master for their jealou8 care of the reputation of the Order. He announces the issue of three Dispensations to form new
Lodges, and informs the Grand Lodge that he had displaced the Master of Willa·
mette Lodge, No. 2, having learned "that he hacl previously been smpendtd in a
sister jurisd'.ction." He recommends that such action shall be taken " as shall
make it imperative on the subordinate Lodges to prevent any of their members
from engaging in the dishonorable employment of selling intoxicating drinks;"
and at a later period the Grand Lodge adopted a resolution subjecting to punish·
ment anr Mason who may be "engaged in the retail sale and trafllc of intoxicating
liquors.' Why punish the vetailers especially, and give immunity to the larger
dealers? We have Epoken of' similar resolutions in our previous reports; and
without any further expression of our opinion as to the inexp€diency of such
enactments, we cannot refrain from suggesting some admiration at that peculiar
syste~ of ju;isp:udence which.scourges petty larceny, and lets "flat burglary" go
uawh 1pt of Justice.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by a committee of which
Bro. J.C. AINSWORTH is Chairman. Though contained in but few pages, it is
much the best we have ever seen from our neighbors of the North, and we are

L75l

.

JOURNAL or PROCEEDINGS.

296

[May,

J;i,q.ppy to perceive tht the writer, not treading in the footst.eps of bis predece$liljl!.
1iousiders it not altogethei: without the sphere of "the lcg1~1mate duty" of sue
~ 0ommittee to review l\nd comment upon the proceedmgs of other Gr11n
:(,ooges. Tw'o excellent resolutions were presented and adopted, one forbidding
\he reception of a petition for initiation from any one who has not resided one
year in the jurisdiction-the other prohibiting advancement until after cxamin.tion and exhibition of proficiency in the preceding degree in open Lodge. Both
these propositions are in force in Califorml\ ; l\nd we c~mmen~ to fovorable. con~
idderation another eMctment of our Oregon brethren m relation to the duties of
committees appointed to investigate the character of an applicant for admission,
which declares it not a sufficient report that nothing is found againsl him, but de·
ml\nds that they shall give some information as to his "standing and qualifications." A well-devised inducement is held out to the Lodges to furnish them·
~lves with the "l'lniversal Masonic Library/' by an order that those who present
\)roof to the Grand Secretary that it has been frocured, "shall be annually
ci;edited and allowed ten per cent. of the amount o their annual dues, until tM
whole expense thereby incurred shall have been reimbursed."
.
It seems a settled principle 9f action with tl\e Grand Lodge of Oregon that'
l{asters of Lodges pose.ees the plenary power of suspension, as appears by the
following enactment:" Resolued That the suspenaion of T. H. A. STURM, an Entered Apprentice, by th~
W. M. of Ha~mo'Tly Lodge, No. 1!21 be and the same is hereby mnde perpetual."
Our opinions upon this novel exercise of power have been expressed heret<1fore, and as some of our brethren in the North are a little tender uf.on that point.,
we present the legislation without comment. The Gran~ Treasurer s report showi
the receipts for the year to have been $107 4, and the disbursements $996, le1win
a balance of $79 in the treasury. Besides this there is an Educational Fun ,
which now amounts to the sum of $2763. Sixteen chartered Lodges and two
under dispensation arc now borne upon the register, being six more than we
chronicled last year. The Communication continued five days, the M.·. W:. BEN·
j.\MIN STARK being elected Grand Master, l\nd the R:.
WILLIAMS. CALDWEL~
reelected Grand Secretary.

w.-.

PENNSYLVANIA.
~

Our latest intelligence from this Grand Lodge is contained In a pamphlet prenting extracts from the proceedings at a Quarterly Communication held on the
st day of December, 1856; at an Extra Quarterly Meeting on the fifteenth da;r
the same· month; and at the Annual Cpmmunication on the Day of St. Joh1.1
t~e Evangelist in that year-at all of which the R:. W.·. PETER W1LLIA!4SON, Grand
~aster, presided, and the R:. W.·. WILLIAMH ... ADAMS was Grand Secretary, and at
ihe first of which both those officers were reelected.
At the Annual Communication, the Grand officers were installed and t)le
Grand Master presented cm Address. It is interesting, doubtless, within his juri11iliction being devoted altogether to an itinerary of Grand Visitations to sundry
t.odge; therei1.1, and to notices of a few other purely domestic matters. One
thing only we note as a peculiarity of the Masonic system in Pennsylvania. He
states that he has granted fourteen dispensations to "E. P. and Raise," eleven to
\I J;>ass and Ra.ise," four to "Raise/' and one hundred and seventy.nine to " PaM
tl:\e Ohair"! Th.is last Is essentially a Pennsylvanian usage-obtainiJlg nowhere
else that we have ever heard of-and to this day its meaning is something of
~ mylitery-to us, though we have a confused idea that it means the pretence of
WAking Past Masters of those who have no business in Ruch a position.
A Report on. Foreign Correspondence-the first we have e~er ~en ~ron;i thia
Grand Lodge--1s presented by Bro. WILLIAM BADGER. We hail this begmnmg as.
an earnest that the a,ncient and respectable Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania doe11
not intend hereafter to be so "insular, exclusive and peculiar" a.s, with some
j11.stice the Foreign Correspondence Committee of New York has declared it.
A gre~t part of the report 1s occupied by a reply to that committee, in language
cou,rteous temperate, and fraternal ; yet all this cannot remove our first opinion
tiiat it w~ insulting to the Grand Lodge of New York when Pennsylvania. prol'l"fie\'I, to place that body upon an equality with l\U organization of a few rebel

s

.

[76)

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OP CAI,IFORNIA.

297

lious Lodges within her borders. by offering to act as umpire betw~n the tw~
The Pennsylvania committee take some credit to their Grand Lodge for having
maintained a "neutrality" between the bodies which they have chosen to con.
sider as equally entitled. to consideration-or lack of it. So far from credit
being due for this, it seems to us that therein lies the "head and front of their
offending," for not only does it ofter an indignity to the Grand Lodge of New.
York, which all the known Masonic world has recognized-save Pennsylvan.i111
alone-but it is indirectly affronting to all those who have readily accorded that
recognition, as they cannot but see in this "neutrality " of Pennsylvania an en·
eourilgcment to the rebellion which their unjted efforts have been given to put down.
Nor do we think that the Pennsylvania committee have proved that their" neutral"
position was" fortunate," .by quoting from that portion of the AddreEs of the
Grana Master of Virginia, relative to his presence at the dedication of the new
Hall In Philadelphia, in September, 1855. "Had there been," they quote, "an
indiscriminate admiEsion of all hailing from that juriEdiction, (New York) of whatever organization, I, as the representative of the Grand Lodge of Virginia, could
not have united with them." Not only the known action of this last Grand Lodge,
but a little further reading of the Address, was amply sufficient to show to what
organizations the "indiEcriminate admissions" alluded ; and, if we remember
right, the Grand Master's own language, had the committee quoted more, made it
plainly evident that lte did not esteem it "fortunate" that this diEcourte~y was
offered to the Grand Lodge of New York. Wealmostfeel it unamiable to present
these few remarks after reading the brief but very flattering notice which is given
by Bro. BAilllEll to our Grand Lodge and to ourselves; and we leave the suqjeot with
the expre~sion of our earnest hope that ere long the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania will abandon its present position in regard to New York, if only in deference
to the unanimous opinion of its Masonic peers.
The financial reports show the receipts for the year to have been $39,782, of
which $20, 736 was for the sale or rental of property ; and an expenditure of
$37,722, of which $23,792 was for account of building and furnishing the new
Hall-leaving $3188 in the treasury, The total cost of the erection of this Ma~
Ronic Temple, exclusive of the taluc of the land, was $183,328, and the Grand
Lodge Is now indebted for loans from twenty·eight of its subordinates, and other
Masonic bodies and individuals, to aid in its completion, in the round Rum of
$151,000. Fourteen District Deputy Grand Masters, nine Grand Chaplains, and
thirty Stewards of the Girard Charity Fund were appointed; but, as usual, no
information is given relative to the number of Lodges in the State.

SOUTH CARO·LIN A.
Our last information from the Grand Lodge of this State is to the twenty •
seventh day of December, 1856. The :publication before us contains the tramac·
tions at four Quarterly and three Special Communications held during the year,
and at the Annual Communication and Grand l!'cast on the day of St. John tho
Evangelist-all in the City of Charleston, and at all of which, with one exception, the M:. W.·. AL~'RED l'RICll, Grand Master, presided, and the W.·. ALBERT G.
MACKEY, Grand Secretary, was present.
It docs not appear to be the custom In this ancient Body for the Grand Master
to present an Address, as is now the general u~age elsewhere in the United States.
At the Quarterly Meeting in March, Bro. A.G. MACKEY reported a code of by-lawA
for the government of the subordinate Lodges, which was adoptfi.j].; and it was ordered that thereafier all the Lodges be advised to conform substantially to the for·
mula thus !?resented. It is more extended than the uniform code now in general
use in this JUri@diction, but the principal and most important propositions it em·
bodie8 arc in eft'ect the ll!lme as in our own. An amendment to the Regulations
was adopted, which requires every candidate, who shall' receive the degrees by
virtue of a dispensation from the Grand Master, to pay the sum of $60 in ad·
dition to the regular fee, one half of which additional fee is to go to the Treasury
of the Grand Lodge. Whether this was expected to aid the revenue, or intended
to check the issue of such dispensations, we know not. If the last, as is most
probable, it is, in our opinion, a very excellent amendment; though, for the better as1mrancQ tha.t the object would be eftected, it is unlucky that the 14"st. propo-

L77]

298

JOURNAL OF l'ROOEEDINOS.

sition - to make the fee $100 -was not adopted.
Grand Lodge we find the following: ·

[May

Among the decisions of the

"That the fact of being nnrler rharges does not exclude a Mason fr;,m tho privilege of
preferri11g; rherges against another;" end
"Thal charges rannol he preierred eg.ainsl the pr!!siding offirer (though he be only' a
Warden) to the Lodge, while he occupies the rhair and exercises thr functions of
Master."

Of the correctness of both these propositions we have no doubt, nnd we give
place to them here only because we have reason to think that there are a few
within our own jurisdiction who labor under the err.or of opinions adverse to
·
them.
At the Quarterly Communication in December, Bro. MACKEY, the Grnn1~ Secreta.ry, presented one of his usual excellent and interesting reports upon the condition of Masonry among the jurisdictions corresponding with tbnt Gran(j. Lodge.
" In the performanre of this laborious hut plea•ing task," says be," I have with each
revolving vear been rhrered hy the ronli11ued pro•µerl of pro•perily amo11g the rran,
and the rapirlly growing ditli1"'on of Masonic i111ellil(enre, and rnnsequenl u"efulneu, id
every jurisdil'tion. The published proreeding• of the Grand Lodges of the prese11l day,
compared with those emanating from the some bodies thirty, or even twenty years ngo,
r.onrlusively demonslrnlr. that Masoury has Bl length taken its plere nmoug the srient16c
developme11ls of 11111 day, and, that while it reta ins ii$ so~iel and prarliro) rheracler, ll
ha.9 added lo ii lhP more elevelE!d one of IL philosophireJ inHlilution, Jl mey, 1 think,
be now indeed said that the golden ng;e of Masonry hiis bpgun. If the srene it now
present•. nt early dawn, he so entiring, what mnsl we i101 expect when the full blaze of
1ls meridian splendor ~hall, in Limo not fer distout, burst npon us.11

We perceive thnt Bro. MACKEY has the temerity to dieagree somewhat with the
distinguished chairman of the Oregon committee of 1856, in relation to the proper
duties of a Committee on Foreign Correspondence. He (Bro. MACKEY) is of the
opinion, which we now for tbe fourth year have endeavored to exemplify, tbnt
suoh committees were really intencled for some useful purpose ; nnd be does not
se~m to consider it an unpardonable sin to question the "decisions of Grnnd MaEtere," nor a verr d i11bolic11l heresy to" intimate doubts of the wisdom, propriety,
nnd regularity' of the nc.tion or Grand Lodges "upon questions carefully considered and solemnly a<ljudged." In our last report, and in previoUB ones, our
own poor ideas upon this subject were presented, but we have been made miserable by lenrninp; from our esteemed brother of Oregon how very much we were
in the wroag. Upon the principle conveyed in the old adage that "misery loves.
company," we feel an unamiable pleasure at finding Bro. MACKEY guilty of our
own rebellious deviation from the "sound views" entertained by our Territorial
brother.

1858.]

ORAND LODGE OF OALlFORNJA.

299

p~s.e lo be errors, end lo warn their own l'onstituenry against adopting them. The Comm1l1ees .a rc, no tlouht.• like the bod ies they arc reviewing, sometimes wroug; but if 1he
d1scuss1ous. of Marnmr. pomts of lnw are r.ond~rled t.empcrately,, <'A!mly , jullil'iously, 1111 d
above ell, lr•le1nally, murb good must ~rise from this routes! of mmd. As the rollision
?f tlml and stel'I will ge1.1erale tire, .•o truth must be elit•ited from the rolli;im1of \'Brying
Jnlellerls. I rm111ol lies11ate lo beJie,·e that for murh of the ele1•a1Pd standard that the
Masonry o,f this ~ey nu~ <·~un.try has assumed , and for the g<'1 era I diffusion of knowledge
o~ the ~UhJer~ of lllaiornr. JUrisp~utlrure, the rrafl are iudeLll'd to the well-conducted
d1scu•s1011s of our \•arious t·omm1llees 011 foreign c."orrespo11de11c."e."

. We acknowl£~ge the c?mpJ:ment paid us by Bro. MACKEY by hie large quotation from, ar:d hie llattcrmg comments upon a portion of our report of 1856
which related alrn to this rnbject of Foreign Corre~pondence. It is no tlattery t~
one whoF.e nputation f?r MaEonlc Imming Is EO well establiehed as his to eay
thut we rend commendation ·from rnch a. quarter with no little pleasure 'and do
not coneid,u it .nn unb€coming vanity to rtcord it. He closes Jue repott with a
r~t~oepcct1ve v1~w of the Grand Lodge of South Carolina, nnd contrasts its cond1t10n when, fourteen years before, he W118 electecl Grand Secretary and Grand
Lecturer, wi~h its pr.csent o~e. Then there were lmt ten Lodges in the State,
se_ven of :which were m the City of Charleston. Now there are sixty-four, " and
with th.e 10.cr£~se of numbers hns ~ome a correeponding change In the character
the me.t1tut1on." Then the entire stock of Maconic literature within the juri£·
diction "consisted of Dalcho'e .A'.himan Rrzon and Croee'e Chart." Now the
works o~ most of the £min~nt MnEOnic writers are familiarly known-are read
and studied. And he declares that nil that is now wanting to place thnt Grand
~odge in its proper position nmong the similar Maconic bodies of the Union
1e a proper relorm in its orgimization,-its present Constitution, " however it may
~ave be~n excuetd when the. Marnnry of the State was principally concentrated
1i:i the city of CharleEton, bemg totally unfitt£d to the government of a juriEdict10n whose large majority of constituents reside in the country." He thinks, and
so do we, that the whole system of proxies F.hould be aboliehtd. Grand Lodges
nre the succcSEore of those General AEecmblies of Frecmarnns formerly heldbecome EO from. the eamc necessity for having 11 rtpreeentative body, rather than
a mass convention of nil its constituents, which exists in political religious and
all other institutions. Tiley are the legislatures of Fre£marnnry ~nd i.houi'd be
co!llpo!*!d of the represent~tives of the Fret marnns, nnd not of rnbstitutee OPpomtcd by those representatives. The Master nnd Wardens of 11 Lodge by virtue of t.heir offices, are the proper representatives of tl1e Lodge in th~ Grand
Lodge, for that, among other things, is, or should be bad in view when they are
elected to those stations. If it happen thnt one or two of them can not or do not
p~rform this portion o.f .the duty which by their election has been assigned to
him or them, the remammg one or two who does or do diECharge It ebould succeed to all the representative capacity of the absent portion ot' th~ delegation ·
:ind if all fail t? at.tend, a defogate should be elected by the Lodge. In short,
111 the Lodge which 1s to be represen tcd, and not its officers.
Bro. MAC!'EY announces his intenti?n to devote the remaining ycnrs of hie lifo to
the accomplishment of these reforms m thllt body of which he Is such 11 shining
ornament; and he has already commenced hie labors by the introduction of nume~oue amendments to the. Constitution, which 11ppe11r to be intended to divest it
of its local and metropolitan character, and to make it 110 longer the Grand
Lodg~ of the City of. Uharleston, bu.t .the Grand Lodge of the State of South
Carolma. The financ ial reports cxh1b1t a revenue for the year amounting to
$5919, and ~a exp.enditure of $5796, leaving a balance in the tree.sury of $376.
There were m existence, at the c~ose of ~he An.nual Communication, sixty-five
chartered Lodges, and one under d1epensat10n, being nn increase of five since our
last repor.t. At the quarterly meeting in December 1856 the Grand Master and
Grand Secretary were both reelected.
'
'

or

"Cnm'llilloe• on Correspondoncc," says Bro. M \CKF.Y, "nre the links whlch bind
the Gra•1tl l,od~e• into rrne uni ted whole in the pursuit of knowleclgc; they nrc the
guardinns nppo111lcd uy their re•pertive bodies lo inform their constituent• what has heen
the progress of the in•litution for the pHst y~ar-to warn them of the errors in disripline
or in Me•onic •ricnr.t> whirh they may suppose Lo hH\'I' hccn commi11ed-a111l lo .i1ggesl
the best methAd by whirh these errors may he nvoide<I or amended. 'J'he r.rnreedmgs
of Grand Lodges are never prinled for purposes of sale or of geuernl tli•lr1lmlion; the
number of rop1e• published is olways smoll ; and il is phy•irnlly impouihle tlrnl n knowledge of their co11tenls can ever reach the mns• of the fraternity, rx<'rpl through the condcn•ed reports of foreign corre1ponclenrE1. 'J'hcsc rommillePs, thNefore, pe1 form but
~he. d'!t.v. to whirh they Wf!ro npr.oi.uted, whM lhry r_cpori the doing:• 1111d s~y111'g.s ?f other
Jnr1sdu·l!ons; nor ra111hey ue t e111cd the ro111mon right of l'xpre•smg their o)nillons on
the nature and tendenry of the fR1·1s ns they relate 1he111. Oran<l llla•ter• arc 1101 infal·
lih!o, nnd Grand Ln<lges nrc not always rorrerl in their de<"isions. If, therefore, u Com·
millee 011 Correspondenre should si111ply de1ail the various arts and opiuions of all the
Grand Bodies with whirh their own is iu rorrespondcnr<>, nor make one depr!!ralory
remark. railing attention lo whal they might suppose violations of l1tws or landmarks,
the heterogeneous ancl disrord1111t doctrines whirh every ,veRr are presenied to IHI'!
Masonic world, would hf! plac."ed before the frate rnity w ithoul romm•nlary, leaving lhe
most i~noranl lo form 1he1r own often erroneous roneluli\ions, end sometime.s to rontOund
the mrrr extrarl from a foreign opiniou.Oy the Commillee, with nu endorsemcul hy 1ha1
Commillec of its correrlness. IL is then a part of the duly of a Commillf!e on Correspondence to review lhe proceediug; of other jurisdictio111, lo poiol out what they sup·

The forty-fifth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee was
commenced in the Ci~ y of Nashville, on the fifth day of October, 1857-the M.·. W.·.
'.1'tto.11AS Mc CuLT.OCH, llrnnd Master, presiding, nnd the R.'. W.·. C. A. F ur.um bemg Grand Secretary.

[78]

[79]

1l

TENNESSEE.

300

'

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDl~GS.

[Mag,

The Grand Master's Address is very shor~ongratulating his brethren upol1
the large representation present-urging upon them great care in the admission
of Cll.ndidates, and a strict obedience to the moral law-o.nd announcing the i&sue of six DispenBations to forin new Lodges during the ;!'.ear.
rhe Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Bro. C. A. Fuu.ER, the Grand
Seeretary. He has no faith in the utility of such a convention of delegates from
all the American Grand Lodges as that which we have noticed as proposed by
North Carolina, nor have we. He is opposed to the issue of dispemations for EOcalled " emergent cases," and we entertain the same feeling of opposition. But
he rather leans to the new Christian qualification of Ohio, and in that d,irection
we are not inclined at all. He says it Is n9 new test. Was it the one propoundell
to Bro. FL'LLElt at his initiation? or has he ever heard it proposed in Tenneesee f
If not, will not this addition to the only article qf faith which during all his
Masonic life he has heard required, be something new 1 An opinion adverse to
the legitimacy of the Grand Lodge of Canada is presented, and considerable
space is given to extracts from the proceedings of this Grand Lodge. In connection with this last, we note i'I correction which he makes of a mistake in our
last report, wherein, owing to an error in the publlcation of Tennessee for 1856,
we named Bro. WILKINS TANNEHILL as the writer of the report on Foreign Correspondence, instead of the proper 11uthor, Bro. JoHN FRJZZEJ.L.
A resolution was adopted requiring the Grand Secretary thereafter to prepare the
report on Foreign Correspondence. The financial reports show the receipts for the
year to have been $4287, and the expenditures $:!199; and there remained in
in the treasury $3708, besides $6346, which had been appropriated, but not yet
used, to aid in building a Masonic Hall. One hundred and ninety-four Lodges
now appear upon the record, bcing six more than our last repo1·t presented. The
Grand Lodge was five days in session, and the Grand Master 11nd Grarid Secretart
were both reelected.

TEXAS;
The twentieth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Texas w*!
commenced at the town of Palestine, on the nineteenth day of January, J 857....,
the M:. W:. F .. B. SEXTON, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.·. A. S. RUTHVll!I
being Grand Secretary.
.
The Address of the Grand Master is of more than ordinary length, and of
vei;y much more th~n ~rdinary ability. It is refreshing to see occasionally a well
written paper of this krnd, and we wish that we could more frequently find tliat
pleas?re in. reading Marnnic mesmges which we have experienced in the perusal
of this. The decease of two distinguished Past Grand Masters of that juriEdietion, Bros. JAMES WEBB and BRANCH T. ARCHER, is appropriately announced, and
an eloquent tribute ia given to their memory. A prohibition of itinerant lecturing is recommended, and, as will hereafter be seen, the Grand Lodge adopted a
resolution to carry the suggestion into eft€ct. Several pages are devoted to the
.details of his official action in regard to the delinquencies, or alleged delinquen•
ci~s, ?f sundry Lodges; and .we mention this only for the purpose of rnying that
this ts one of the very few instances we have seen where such merely domestiQ
matters are presented in a manner so attractive as to make them interesting t•
the foreign reader. One of these cases, however, was of more than ordinary im-portance,-affecting in its decision, not alone the juriEdiction of Texas, but the
whole body of the Fraternity. It arose from the act of a Lodge in conferring
tfle three degrees. of MaEOnry upon a man who avowed that he "did not believe
the Bible to be the revealed will of God," nor "that God had ever made any
revelation of his will to man"; and it elicited a long and interesting argumen~
from tile Gi;and Master upon the question whether a candidate should, or Ehould
not be reqmred to express a belief that the Bible is of Divine origin. In it he
shows conclusively that in all Ohriatian lands the Scripture~ have ever held
the most prominent consideration in a Lodge, and that (in such countries) a Mason's belief in its contents (or some portion of them) is necessarily to be inferred
But he adds :-'"It rRn not, I think, he sucre••fully claimed that a Mason of the three symbolic de·
grces must necessarily admit the Divine authority of the New Teslament1 or the truth of

LBuJ

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

301

the !'ume~ous religious doctrines which are deduced from it by as many religious sects.
l thmk this clear, because I do not believe that there is any portion of the liistory, leelures, ceremonies, teachings, or usages of Ancient Craft Masonry, which can not be
fully explained, understood, and pracl!ced without reference to the New Testament.''
Now this, so far as it relates to our own country, coincides with our own opini?n. Our pr~ncipal objection. to the Ohio doctrine is, that it ·requires the expreEs1on of a behef mall the Scriptures, both Old and New, and thus absolutely limits Freemasonry to the professors of the Christian faith ; but our general objection
to the whole proposition is that it introduces a test which for ages has not been
considered necessary, and which, by connecting Masonry with particular religions, will result in the destruction of that universality which is now, and has ever
been its most important and useful characteristic. The Grand Master expresses
the opinion that Lodges have multiplied with too great rapidity in Texas, and
presents a picture of some of them which fully justifies the declaration. H,e declares his conviction that the system of District Deputy Grand Masters is a
most useful one ; presents some very sensible suggestions in regard to that great
desideratum-uniformity of work ; and announces the issue of ten Dispensations
to form new Lodges. To these are to be added five more issued"by the Deputy
Grand Master.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is presented by Bro. WM. STEDMAN,
the Grand Master elect at this Communication. It needed not the apologetic in,
troduction with which it commences, for, (and we say it at the risk of being again
charged by our brethren in Texas with the expression of opinions ex cathedra)
there are few better ones to be met. He, too, writes at considerable length in
approval of the Ohio test, but as he says he speaks only of Ohriatian Masonry,
leaving the inference,-in fact absolutely arguing-that there is no other real Masonry, we have naught to offer in reply. We do know one essentially Christian Order
of Masonry, but to that Masonry of. the symbolic degrees which these reports alone
refer to, we acknowledge no particular religious or sectarian prefix. It is possible
that by-and-by we may hear of Episcopalian, Methodist, and Baptist Masonry, and
that, at a still later period, further discriminating distinctions may be known
under the appropriate heads of High and Low Church Masonry,-Methodist Masonry, North and South,-and Baptist Masonry of both the Hard and Soft shell
varieties. It is to be hoped that it may not be so, but the late remarkable discovery. that Masonry, without knowing it, has been so irreligious during many
centuries, may engender further new and yet more singular ones, until, in the
fulness of time, the apparently absurd possibilities which we have suggested shall
be brought to light. At the conclusion of his argument upon this subject, Bro.
STEDMAN proposed the following resolution :" That the Grand Lodge of Texas declares that a distinct avowal of a belief in the
Divine authenticity of the Holy Scriptures is an indispensable prA·requisjte to Masonic admission in all Clmstian countries; and that it shall not be lawful, within her jurisdiction,
lo initiate, pas11, or raise a person who does not entertain that belief."
This was referred to the committee upon the Grand Officers' Reports, who
reported in its stead another resolution, which was adopted by the Grand Lodge,
as follows!"Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of 'l'exas declares that a belief in the Divine authenticity of the Holy Scriptures is an indiepensable pre-requisite to Masonic admission;
and the Grand Lodge does not mean lo exclude the Israelite, whom it does not regard as
disqualified for the mysteries of Freemasonry."
Now the intent of this resolution is obvious. The Grand Lodge had appa-'
rently adopted the conclusion of the Grand Master, that a belief in. the Divine
origin of tire Old Testament alone was necessary, and it was doubtless intended
to enact that proposition. With no desire to look unnecessarily for faults in the
legislation of our esteemed sister of Texas, and with every sentiment of respect
and courtesy, we ask if it so reads. The first sentence of the resolution imperatively declares that a belief in the Divine authority of both the Testaments is requisite-for the term "the Holy Scriptures" includes the two ; while the concluding portion proceeds with a copulative conjunction to assert that such a

11

[81]

302

JOURNAL ·oF PROCEEDINGS.

[21.fay,

belief in both is not in all cases to be required ! There appears to be a sliding
scale of qualification. A Christian must subscribe to both the Testaments-a. Jew
to only one. By the same tariff of creeds, we see no reason why a Turk should
be required to pretend a belief in either. All believe in God, and we see no reason
to alter our opinion that all, thus believing, who, in the language of the first Old
Charge, are "good men and true, or men of honor and honesty, by whatever denominations or persuasions they may be distinguished," are eligible candidates for
the mysteries of Masonry ; for it is by this means, in the words of the rnme
charge, that "Masonry becomes the centre of union, and the means of conciliating true friendship among persons that must else have remained at a perpetual
distance."
The language of the Texan committee in regard to the Grand Lbdge of California is flattering in the extreme. "The proceedings before us," say the committee, "contain abundant evidence that no Grand Lodge in the world is graced
with a higher order of talent, a more thorough familiarity with Masonic law and
philosophy, and a juster appreciation of MaEOnic behest and obligation, than that
which distinguishes our sister jurisdiction of California"; and our own humble
but zealous labors are spoken of in terms too complimentary to be repeated here.
Yet while our natural modesty forbids us to mention the good things said of us,
a proper humility requires that we should note and profit by such censure as it
may appear to our brethren abroad that we have deserved. In the midst of many
k~nd expressions it is remarked by Bro. STEDMAN, that " it is to be regretted that
Bro. ABELL, by sometimes assuming an ex cathedra tone, and at others, by the use
of EOme cant phrase, or inelegant expression, should break the force and weaken
the influence of one of the most learned, profound, and logical MaEOnic papers
that it has been our good fortune to meet with." As to the first charge! it may
be true, and if it is, we regret it. When, in 1855, we commenced the preparation
of the reports on Foreign Correspondence to the Grand Lodge of California, we
had very little personal experience in Masonic matters, und naught to guide us
but an attentive reading of one of the best collections of Masonic works in the
United States, and such common sense and powers of reasoning as nature und
education had afforded us. With great distrust, therefore, in our own conelusione,
we endeavored to present such opinions as, from these sources, we bud formed, in
the suggestive and deferential manner which properly befitted our inexperience
and unknown name. This course we have ever intended to continue, not only
because it best became our comparatively limited and imperfect knowledge of the
subjects upon which we write, but because we are well aware that a good argument or correct opinion may frequently be diminished in its force or destroyed in
its effect, when presented in a manner offensively arrogant or positive. We had
hoped not to fall into this too common error, but us it seems we have, we cun only
express our sorrow, and in all sincerity, promise Bro. STEDMAN that we will endeavor to profit by the fraternal reproof. To the second charge, preferred b1, our
esteemed brother of Texas, we are compelled to put in the plea of "guilty, ' but
with extenuating circumstances. In fact, we were on the point of increasing our
culpability by thoughtlessly declaring that we "acknowledge the corn"; but, as
will be seen, we have checked ourselves in the utterance. There is no defence
for the use of inelegant language in writing by those whose acquirements should
prompt the use of better, nor do we mean to attempt any. llut it does sometimes
happen, when, doffing for the moment the severer panoply of argument and words
of wisdom, and indulging briefly in a playful vein, that a current phrase, though
perhaps unpolished and altogether homely, is more ef!ective in the conveyance of
an idea than a whole paragraph of Johnson's most proper and pompous pollysyllables. On such occasions we have prollably Himetimes used such language ;
but it may well be that the practice would have been "more honored in the
breach than the observance." We take the suggestion in the ~ame kind spirit which
has evidently induced it, and if the hurry of scribbling the couple of hundred
pages of manuscript required for one of these reports will permit, it shall be
borne in memory hereafter.
Some jocose remarks of ours in the report of 1856, relative to Lodges, U. D.,
Entered Apprentices, opening, closing, adjourning, &c., ure noticed by the Texan
committee, and un opinion is given upon each particular. The committee of Flor-

j 821

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

a

303

ida have done the same, but in directly opposite manner. The last maintain that
a Lodge under dispensation iJl only "a premonitory.symptom," that an Entered
Apprentice is only "a coming event,'' &c. It is scarcely necessary for us to say
that our previous writings show our opinions to be in unison with those of Bro.
STEDMAN, except perhaps in the matter of closing " up " or " down," which seems
to us to be a thing of small importal).ce. Our attention is called to an opinion
we expressed-or rather to our concurrence in one presented by Bro. FosTER of
Missouri-two years ago, to the effoct that a Lodge could only try for Masonic offences, a.nd that therefore a Mason could not be held amenable to it for acts
committed before his initiation. We thank Bro. STEDMAN for the opportunity
olfered us to acknowled~e our error, for the instance he has cited as occurring in
our own Grand Lodge, m the case of - - - - , (De mortuis nil niiii bonum,) convinced us that we came to too hasty a conclusion upon that subject. It Is our
impression that in our report of last year we gave some utterance to this change
in our views, fur we now th.ink with our brother of Texas, that it is not Improper
for a Lodge to take cognizance of offclnces committed before the culprit was a.
Mo.son, when they " were unknown at the time of initiation, or in ca.se there w11s
any imposition or deception pmcticed upon the Lodge."
Having thus on our part confessed an error of opinion, we'" improve the occasion " by asking the ch.airman of the Texan committee to acknowledge one of
fact. " Our California brother remarks," says he, "tll!lt through these pror.eedings, (those of Texas for 1855) the words 'Worthy' and 'Most Worthy' are
used. instead of those customary arnong Masons, and asks, ' Is this the usage of
the Grand J,odge of Texas, or a mistake in the copyist or printer? ' We wil~
answer him that it is neither the one nor the other, but that it is a. mistake on the
part of the chairman of the Committee on l!'oreign Correspondence ot' California." He then declares that neither of those terms occur in the proceedings alluded to, except in one instance, where the word" Worthy" was used, not as a.,
Masonic prefix, but as a qualification of character; and adds that, though not
"so learned" as we, they in Texas are" not quite so,deflcient in a knowledge
of Masonic nomenclature as his (our) inquiry would seem to imply." Now we.
are glad to hear that. In fact, we never really supposed it was otherwiset for
we have seen too many good papers from our Teliian brethren to charge tnem
with Ignore.nee. We imagined the slight errors of which we spoke to be owing
to some lack of care iu preparing the copy for the press, e.nd noticed them, not
ill-naturedly, to call the attention of the accomplished 'Grand Secretary to the
mistakes. Bro. STEJIMA.N h11s b11sed his denial of their existence upon quite too
hasty a review of the volume which he says he has "examined carefully," and
we will proceed to furnish him an index for the acknowledgment suggested
to him at the commencement of this paragraph. On page 4, the first report
presented, that by the Committee on Credentials, is addressed "To the Most
Worthy Grand Lodga of Texas : " on page 21, the Deputy Grand Master, in the
first paragraph of his report to the Grand Lodge, says, " I hasten to report to
your Most Worthy Body my action as D. G. Master : " on pap;e 56, the Grand
Secretary's report speaks of his " interviews with the Ri9ht Worthy Grand Secretary·~ in PariA: on page 75, the Committee on Grand Officers' Reports allude
to the Deputy Grand Master as "our Rt. Worth/I: Brother:" and on page 77,
the same committee acknowledge the kindness with which the Grand Secretarr,
had been received In Europe as a "fraternal favor extended to this Worthy Body. '
There may be other instances, but it is probably not necessary to examine further. We have taken the trouble to look over the volume which we had before
reviewed, for the purpose of showing that ho,wever liable we may be to errors of
opinion, we take some pains not to misstate our fact~.
Resolutions were· reported by the Committee to acknowledge the Grand
Lodge of Canada ; to refund to Louisiana Relief Lodge the sum of $160, expended by that body in assisting Masons of. Texas and their families ; to publish complete lists of membership with the proceedings; and to prohibit defi·
nite suspensions : all of which were adopted. The Grand Lodge declineil going
into. the College business, and the encouragement of itinerant lecturers is for·
bidden. An eloquent address by the Grand Orator, Bro. J.B. LIKENS, and an
Installation ceremony for the Grand Lodge appear with the proceedings. The

[831

304

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

Grand Treasurer's report exhibits (exclusive of sundry receipts and disbursements by the Grand Secretary) a revenue for the year of $9035, and an expenditure of $9136, with a balance on hand of $5050. One hundred and eightyfour Lodges now appear upon the registry, being seven more than we last year
chronicled. The Communication continued six days, the M.·. W.·. W111. STEDMAN
having been elected Grand Master, and the R.·. W.·. A. 8. RU7HVEN reelected
Grand Secretary.

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

305

VIRGINIA.

Representatives were exchanged with the Grand Lodges of New York and
Canada. Of the finances, we only learn that $147 remained in the Grand Trease rer's hands, besides a Charity Fund of $209. Forty-one chartered Lodges and
One under dispensation are now in existence, being five more than we last reported. The Grand Lodge was two days in seBBion, and the Grand Master and
Grand Socretary were both reelected.

· The Grand Lodge of Virginia commenced its Annual Communication for the
year 1857, at the city of Ri'lhmond, on the fourteenth day of December,- the
M. ·. W.·. JOHN S. CALDWELL, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. JOHN DovE
being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the Grand Master occupies l,JUt little space. He congratulates his brethren upon the prosperity of the Order in the Old Dominion ;
:rnnounces the issue of eighteen D!spensa.tions to form new Lodges during the
year; intimates his approval of the system of interchanging representat ives
with other Grand Bodies-a system which was afterwards adopted by the Grand
Lodge ; suggests the discontinuance of the practice of publishing the names ot'
those rejected for Initiation by the Lodges, which suggestion was concurred in ;
and recommends the erection of a Masonic Temple. This last subject was r eferred to a committee, from the report of which and the subsequent action thereupon, it would appear that the Grand Lodge has earnestly set about carrying
the recommendation into effect.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence is by Bro. F. W. Ros1En. In it our
notice last year of the reaolntion of Virginia prohibiting the reference of petitions for initiation to committees, is commented upon at greater length than
most of the subjects which are reviewed. Though we mentioned only the substance of the resolution in our last i·eport, with the inquiry why the practice
was forbidden, our attention was particularly attracted to it by what seemed to
us a somewhat singular remark of the committee who reported upon the subject.
If we r ecollect aright, great surprise was expres~ecl by that committee at having learned that in some jurisdictions this practice of referring such petit ions t o
committees had r eally obtained ; and we t b.ought it remarkable that information
of a usage which we had supposed to be general, iudecd, universal, throughout
the United States, (with this one exception) should so 111tely have re11ched the
intelligent committee of Vir ginia. The propO!ition of Bro. ROSIER that " each
member should consider himself a committee to inquire into the character of
the applicant," is indisputably a good one. But did, or will, each member ever
do it 1 It is a homely but an ower true adage that " what is everybody's business Is nobody's"; and its exemplification is quite as likely to occur in Masonic
Lodges as elsewhere. By the appointment of a committee especially deputed
for the purpose, it is rendered probable that some Investigation will be had, and
F.Ome information elicited. By leaving the m11tter to the genernl inquest, the
probabilities are that the Lodge will have learned no more r egarding the candidate on the night of the ballot, th1\n it had when his petition w11s presented. In
our own experi1Jnce we have encountered none of the unhappy effects of this
practice which are suggested by our brethren of Virginia., and we ca.nnot perceive how the sanctity of the ballot-box is invaded because a committee are
simply honest enough openly t o express their conviction that a candidate is
unlit to be received into our Order.
When speaking of the proposition of Indiana to permit Masters of Lodges
and the Grand Master to be tried by the subordinates ot' which they are severally
members, Bro. ROSIER remarks " that,Masters of Lodges can be tried for unmasonic conduct, there can be no reasonable doubt." We of course entertain no
doubt of that, but it can hardly be that this is meant as an assent to the mode of
trial proposed in Indiana. If there were no other objection to thut method, the
fact that the Master is the custodian of the Charter of his Lodge, und might
prevent all proceedings by refusing to have it present, seems an unanswerable
one. The right to try a Grand Master, however, is not admitted at all by the
Virginia commiHee. He is " looked upon as a monarch, elected for a definite
time ; his power in some matters being limited by the Constitution, but in others
(those, for example, which belong to his office by prescriptive right) bis power
is despotic, and he is only amenable t.11 God and bis own conscience." We can
not agree to the doctrine that such unlimited and irresponsible power belongs of
rip:ht, or belongs at all, to uny man placed in a merely temporary position of
official superiority by the suffrages of his fellows ; and we have no doubt that " a
new regulation " may with propriety be enacted, by which a Grand Master may

[84)

(85)

VERMONT.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Vermont fur the year
1857, was commenced at the City of Burlington on the fourteenth day of January-the M:. W.·. PHILIP C. TUCKER, Grand Master, presiding, and the R:. W.·.
JOHN B. HOLLENBECK being Grand Secretary.
The Address of the venerable Grand Master is longer than usual, and, being
from such a source, it is needless to say that it is interesting in proportion with
its length. A large portion of it is devoted to a r eview of the Canada question ;
and the previous action of the Grand Lodge of Vermont, recognizing the new
Body in those Provinces, is ably sustained, and was reaffirmed by that body. It
would afford us pleasure to present a synopsis of his learned and logical argument upon this subject, but the near approo.ch of the seBSion at which this report
is to be presented, warns us that we must soon draw it to a close. Yet we still
hope to find time to present some views upon that question under its proper
head. Bro. TucKER mentions the case of a Lodge which, by the vote of a majority, had proposed to surrender its Charter, and states that he was at first inclined
to r ecognize its right to do so, but that after reflection he had decided '"!that so
long as a minority, large enough to officer n Lodge fully, existed, '(/Poatd to dissolution, the majority had not the power to destroy the Lodge.' This is the
principle that we had supposed should govern, and we are glad to be strengthened in'our supposition from such high authority. The issue of two Dispensations to form new Lodges is announced, and a beautiful tributr. is paid to the
memory of Bro. ANTHONY J, HASWELJ,, the venerable brother of the former
Grand Master of Vermont.
The Report on Foreign Correspondence was presented by Bro. BARZILLAI
DAVENPORT, the R:. lJ~·. Deputy Grand Master. It is a good, though rapid summary of the proceedings of the Grand Lod!feS whose publications ·had been
received, but presents few opinions upon any of the subjects therein dit1Cussed.
A complimentary notice is given to California, and confidence is expressed " that
the Royal Art is in safe hands in the far-off mountains of gold, and on the banks
of the Sacramento." We observe it stated that in the proceedings of Florida
for 1856, "Anderson's Constitutions" were published. If Bro. DAVENPORT will
examine the singular document printed with that title, his opinion as to the
correctness of the name may be somewhat unsettled.
The following stringent resolutions in regard to non-affiliation were adopted
by a unanimous vote : " Reaolvtd, That all non-affiliated Masons should be, and arc hereby, indefinitely
suspended, and they and their families excluded from all the privileges and benefits of
the Institution, unless they, by petition properly presented to the Lodge within whose
jurisdiction they reside, shall cause such facts to appear as should render such suspension inexpedient or improper; the Lodge to whom the petition is presented to act accordi11g lo its best discretion-its action bt'ing always subject to revision by the Grand
Lodge, in ac.cordance with the regulations relating to appeals.
" R esolved, That all Masons who shall, from choice, habitually and constantly absent themselves from the communications, and neglect payment of the dues of their
respective Lodges, within one year after they shall become due and notice ~iven, shall
be, and are hereby, considered as non-affiliated Masons, and treated accordmgly.''

306

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

be brought to trial for his misdeeds, as well as other men, though we by no means
approve ·the one under consideration in Indiana.
The " teetotal " resolutions of some of the Gmnd Lodges are .spoken of by
Bro. Rosr1m in a manner which fully accords with our own views ; a handsome
amende is made to Bro. KING, of New York, for having hastily made use last
year of his translation of the Paris proceedings without the proper credit ; a
just animadversion upon the present ttood of newspaper "Masonic Literature "
is indulged in ; and an earnest opposition is manifested to the late new doctrines
which propose to convert Masonic Lodges into Christian Churches. The remarks
of the committee on this subject conclude as follows:,, We are opposed to the introduction of any new test of the qualifications of a candidate for Masonry; particularly if, as in the present instance, it strikes at the root of one
of its noblest features-its universality. Not an argument is advanced by our respected
brethren of Texas but might, with a change of names, be used by the Turk, the Chinese,
or the red Indian in favor of his particular creed. To sum up all, we hope never to hefor
more required of a candidate on this head than that he should express his trust in that
'Father of all, in every ng~ 1 In every clime adnred,
lfy saint, by savage, and by sage,-JEHOVAH, JovE, or LoRn.'"

Resolutions were adopted to submit to the Grand Lodges of the United States
the proposition to purchase Mount Vernon ; to rescind the order of the preceding
year, which prohibited the conferring of "Hide degrees"; and disapproving the
proposal to establish a General Grand Lodge. A report was adopted which considers the attainment of absolute uniformity in work as utterly hopeless ; maintains the previous action of the Grand Lodge in opposition to non-affiliation ;
expresses a decided hostility to all so called cases of emergency ; and reprehends
a very singular custom-the mockery of a pretended funeral ! The financial
report shows the receipts for the year to have been $1656, and the disbursements
$1432, leaving $600 in the treasury, besides $165 in the Charity Fund, and
stocks amounting to $3,100. From the published list it appear~ that one hundred and fifty-six chartered Lodges and one under dispensation now exist in Virginia, being eleven more than we last year noted. The Communication occupied
three days, and the Grand Master and Grand Secretary were both reelected.

WISCONSIN.
The Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin, for the year
1857, was beirun at the City of Milwaukee on the ninth day of June.- the M.-.
W.-. HENRY S. BAIRD, Grand Master, presiding, and the R.·. W.·. WILLU.M R.
SMITH being Grand Secretary.
In his Address the Grand Master congratulates the Craft thnt the light of
Masonry keeps equal pace with the march of civilization and improvement ; ex~
presses solicitude that care be taken in the introduction of candidates ; announces the failure of the" Committee on Work," appointed at the previous Communication, to accomplish any of the duties for which it was established ; suggests
the appointment of one or more Grand Lecturers, with 11 fixed compensation, as
the best method of arriving at that great desideratum-uniformity Of"Work·
intimates the propriety of delaying any action upon the Canada question, untd
the committee appointed upon that subject at the preceding meeting should
report, (which we perceive they failed to do i) pronounces a eulogy upon Bro.
E. K. KAN!'l ; and states that eight Dispensat10ns to form new Lodges had been
issued during the year. In addition to these, we observe that four were granted
by the Deputy Grand Master.
·
No Report on Foreign Correspondence appears in the proceedings. Amendments to the Constitution were adopted, prohibiting ·the reception of applications for initiation from any who had not resided at least one year within the
jurisdiction of the Lodge to which the same might be fpresented, unless by dispensation from the Grand Master; and forbidding the withdraw11l of any application for degrees afrer it had been read in open Lodge. From the financial
reports it appears that the receipts for the year were $3:~59, the disbursements
$3046, and that the balance remaining on hand in ca~h and bonds amounted to
$7718, which was subject to the payment of sundry bill~ amounting to six or
l!l~ven hundred dollars. Eighty-two chartered Lodges and one under dispensa-

[86]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

307-

tion are now in existence in Wisconsin, an increase of six since our last report.
The Communication continued during four days ; and the Grand Master and
Grand Secretary were both reelected.

CANADA.
We have been favored with the receipt of a very handsomely prepared publication of two hundred and twenty pages, containing the transactions of' the
independent Grand Lodge of Canada at its first and second Annual Communications, together with the proceedings at the Convention of Lodges by which it
was established on the tenth day of October, 1855. With these last, the singularly
eloquent and impressive communication from our Canadian brethren, which was
presented to this Grand Lodge in 1856, bas made its members all familiar. To
the others, the brief notice which our lack of time now renders imperative will
be given.
The first Annual Communication was commenced at the City of Hamilton on
the ninth day of July, 1856 - the M:. W.·. WILLU.M MERCER WILSON, Grand
Master, presiding, and the R:. W.-. THOMAS B. H.rnms being Grand Secretary.
In accordance with the custom which prevails among the American Grand
Lodges, an Address was presented by the Grand Master at the opening. In it
he asserts that the true spirit of Masonry had actuated himself and his brethren
in their declaration of independence ; presents sundry local matters for consideration; mentions that he had visited nearly all the Lodges in that portion of
the Province ; recommends, most sensibly as we think, tbat in the revision of
the ritual the Mark degree be incorporated with that of Fellow Craft; congratulates the Grand :Lodge upon its recognition by one of its parent bodies, the
Grand Lodge of Ireland, and by 11 n1tmber of the Gmnd Lodges of the United
States ; pronounces the Circular of the Provincial Grand Lodge of Canada
West, in regard to the manner in which this new Body was formed, to be calumnious and an "ingeniously arranged misrepresentation," supported by parties
known to be " actuated by personal and interested motives" ; and warmly commends to the Lodges the Universal Masonic Library of Bro. MORRIS. Nine
Dispensations to form new Lodges bad been issued, for all which warrants
were ordered. A Constitution was adopted; representatives in the Grand Lodges
of Ireland and Vermont were appointed .i. and Grand Mo.ster Wn,soN was reelected. Bro. JOHN OSBORNE was elected 1.:<rand Secretary, his predecessor, Bro.
THos. B. HARRIS, having been elected Grand R~gistrar.
'
The second Annual Communication was held at tbe City of Montreal, commencin~ on the eighth day of July,"1857. Upon this occasion, also, an Address
was delivered by the Grand Master, in which he recommends the system of publications now generally adopted by the Grand Lodges of the United States;
alludes to the division of the Province into seven Masonic districts, with 11
District Deputy Grand Master in each, as ordered at the preceding Communication ; notices sundry local matters, of interest only to the Craft in Canada ;
eulogizes the memory of Bro. E. K. K.1.NE ; eiq1resses opinions which sufficiently
indicate that he is not likely to become a convert to the recently invented religious test ; indulges a hope that a union of all the Masons of Canada will speedily be effected; and notices certain resolutions of the Provincial Grand Lodge
having a tendency in that direction, among which was one appointing a committee to treat with a like delegation from the Grand Lodge of Canada upon that
subject. The issue of ten Dispensations tollnstitute new Lodges was announced ;
a Report on.Foreign Correspondence was presented, consisting almost entirely
of the reports which various writers among the American Grand Lodges have
submitted in favor of the recognition of the new Grand Lodge ; anll a committee was appointed to confer with that of the Provincial Grand Lodge upon the
proposition for a union of the two bodies. The result of this conference will be
given in another place. Forty-eight chartered Lodges and one under dispensation are now borne upon the registry of the Grand Lodge of Canada. The
Communication continued three days. The M:. W.-. WM. M. WILSON was a third
time elected Grand Master, and the brethren returned to their first love by again
electing the R:. W:. Taos. B. HARRIS Grand Secretary.

[87]

308

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

CANADA WEST.
We have before us, in a handsome pamphlet of sixty-three pages, the transactions of the Provincial Grand Lodge .of Canada West from the twenty-first
day of May, 1856, to the ninth day of September, 1857, when that body also declared its independence, aud reorgamzed itself under the name and style ,of the
ANCIENT GRAND LODGE OF CANADA.
At the half yearly Communication, held at the city?~ Toronto, on th~ d~te
first named above, a resolution was adopted that the pos1t10n of that Prov1D1~1al
Grand Body and the movement of the "self-styled Grand Lodge of Canada, be
communicated to all the Masonic bodies with which correspondence wos held.
The result of that resolution was the circular laid before the Grand Lodge. of
California at its laat Communication. A resolution was also adopted heartily
approving a moti.on of which notice W!\S given in the Grand Lodge o~ England,
to the effect that the Provincial Grand Lodge should tbereaf~r eDJOY all t~e
privileges of an independent Grand Lodge, except that once ID three years it
should submit the names of two or more brethren to the Grand Maeter of England, from among whom one was to be named as Provinci~l Grand Master. .
At the half-yearly Communication holden at tbe same city on the twenty-thu;d
day of October, 1856, great dissatisfaction was expressed at the manner m
which a previous memorial t.o the Eorl of Zetland, Gra~d Maste~ of :f!ngland,
bad been received; and resolutions were adopted expressive of this feeling, and
ordering a direct appeal to the Grand Lodge of England. Another resolution.
was passed forbidding all Masonic communication with the " self-styled Grand
Lodge of Canada,'' and those having any connection therewith;
At a special meeting held at the Town of Cobourg on the eighth dny of J11:nuary, 1857, the report of a committee appointed to draft the above memorial
was received, and the paper presented was ordered to be forwarded to the parent
Grand Lodge.
.
At the half yearly Communication held in the City of Toronto on the thirtieth day of June of the same year, the Deputy Gra~d Master, the .R:. W.·. THOMAS
G. RIDOUT. announced that the prayer contained ID the memorial had not been
granted and that there was no reason to hope, from the tenor of the correspondence which had taken place upon t.h~ subject, that.it ever would b.e; whereupon
there was at once evinced a d1spos1t1on to follow ID the path wb1cn nearly two
years before the brethren who now compose the Grand Lodge of Canad~ had
taken. A resolution was immediately adopted, rescinding that before mentioned
which forbadf! communication with that body and its adherents ; an4 ?there
were passed declaring. a se~ar!"te organiz!ltion necessary, and author1zrng· a
committee to confer with a s1m1lar deputation from the Grand Lodge of Canada,
in regard to a union between the two bodies.
On the ninth day of September, 1857, an especial meeting was held. at Toronto, when the report of the committee lost named was preB!lnted. This. co!11prises the "Articles of Union " proposed oy those representmg the Provincial
Grand Lodge, the amendments and alterations suggested b,Y the comm.i t:ee from
the independent Grand Lodge, and the minutes of proceed1D.gs of the Joint dele~ation. We have neither time nor space to present these tbrngs In fyll. Suffice
1t that no agreement was arrived at, and that the reasons for the d1sagr~emen t
hardly seem sufficient. In a matter of so much Importance, mere q~<Jst1ons of
punctilio should .not have prevented the result so much to be 4es1red. The
representatives of the Provincial Grand Lodge appear to have wished that an
organization of the two bodies elitirely de novo, so far as regarded the date of
union, period of meeting, time and manner of elections, and su~d~y other particulars should be provided · while those of the Grand Lodge ms1sted that all
these things, really of min~r consequence, should be governed to some e~tent
by the terms of the constitution already adopted by that body.. The t11:1al difference waR merely upon a question of dignity-!"n.ama_Zgamat1on bemg desired upon
the one hand, ajusion upon the other. ·The d1st1Dction between those terms we
shall leave our Canadian brethren to explain.
.
Upon the report of the committee, the Provincial Grand Master, Sir A.I,~N
NAPIER 1.!AcNAB announced that the ·Provincial Grand Lodge had declared its
independence ; ~nd, as the representative of the Gra?-d Master of Englan~, required that every Master or Delegate of a Lodge holding under the authority of

[88)

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

309

the Grand Lodge of England should deliver up the Warrant of his Lodge. In
accordance with this order the Warrants of thirty-eight Lodges were surrendered, being all apparently there represented; and then, without a charter in.existence, it was resolved that the "Ancient Grand Lodge of Canada " be formed,
and that S111. ALLAN N. McNAB be its first Grand Master. We have not time
now to express our opinions in regard to the manner of the organization. Fortyseven Lodgea appear to adhere to it, and the late Pcovincial Grand Secretary,
the v.., W:. FRANCIS R1CBARDSON, was appointed to fulfil the same duties in the
new body.
CONCLUSION.
The committee had cherished the hope of being enabled at this Communication to present, in exteMo, the whole subject of the Canadian difficulties, with such
opinions as they have formed in regard to it, and the reasons from which they are
deduced. But domestic affiictio[IS have deprived them of the time necessary for
ihe creditable accomplishment of that purpose, and the hour is now at hnnd
when this report must be concluded. This much, however, they briefly 1ay.
The developments of the past year ha-Ve placed the organizations in C&!iada
in a position, as regards each other, differing greatly from that they occupied at
the da.te of our last review. Then there was a ProTlncial Grand Body of undoubted legality in existence, which still numbered among the subordinatPA
who adhered to more than half of those existing in the Upper Province ; and,
though all our warmest sympathies were aroused at tho eloquent and truthful
manner in which the new Grand Lodge had set forth the grievances which impelled the declaration of its independence. we did not think it right to desert
those who, notwithstanding the many evils of which they also loudly complah;1ed,
remained thus sturdily faithful to the Masonic precept of obedience. Now the
RCenes are shifted and the characters are changed. The Provincial Grand Lodge,
after receiving concessions from the Grand ·Master of England which included
all the privileges it prayed for two years before, and which, had they been granted thenJ would doubtless have prevented the secession of those who formed · tho
Grand Lodge of Canada, increased its demands to the extent of an absolute
recognition of its independent existence; and, upon its being rendered probable
that such an acknowledgment would not be obtained, first negotiated with the
body it had previously outlawed, and then, with less provocation than the other,
followed in its footsteps. Thus we have a choice of two organ!:Gatlons - the
Grand Lodge of Canada, and the Ancient Grand Lodge of Canada - both
formed by a violent separation from the parent body to which their constituent~
principally owed allegiance, and, In that respect, both standing upon a position
of equality before us. We must recognize one or the other, or ignore the existence of Masonry in Canada, except so far as the limited jurisdiction of tho
Provincial Grand LodJ1,'es of Montreal and William Henry, and Quebec, and
Three Rivers are concerned. The last altenatlve we have no thought of adopting, and as between the two Grand Lodges, we have no hesitation In giving
preference to the first. Our opinions in regrud to the propriety of its formation
had undergone some change before learning the action of the late Provinc!nl
Grand Lodge, and now we have no room for doubt as to our choice of action.
We recommend the recognition of that Grand Lodie of Canada of which the
M.'. W:. WM. MERCER WILSON is Grand Master, and the R:. W:. THos. BIRD HAR•
ms is Grand Secretary.
It is a subject of regret, not only that we have been compelled thus hurriedly
to speak of a matter of such importance ; but that our foreign communications
must remain unnoticed, further th&n the simple acknowledgment of their receipt
contained in the commencement of this paper. Indeed, the writer has much to
nsk indulgence for throughout the whole of the report. It·has been written at
vnrious intervals, during a period of grievous sadness and anxiety, while watching by the sick-bed of one most near and dear ; and it is scarcely possible that
justice has been done to any of the subjects where argument or reasoning has
been attempted. It Is believed, however, to be a faithful summary of the proceedings of those Grand bodies which it professes to review, and as such It is
presented to the Grand Lodge of Califorma.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ALEX. G. ABELL, Chairman.

12

[89)

310

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[ Ma9 1

Which report was received and ordered to be published with the
proceedings.
The Grand Secretary presented certain papers relative to a former
committee, appointed for the purpose of soliciting contributions to procure a stone for the National Washington Monument; which were
referred to the Committee on Grievances.
He also presented a communication relative to certain differences
between Washington Lodge, No. 20, and Concord Lodge, No. 117, in
the City of Sacramento, relative to the membership of Bro. J. p.
THOMPSON; which was referred to the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.
He also presented a petition from Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, praying for a remission of its dues for reasons therein Ret forth; which
was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
He also presented certain correspondence with the Provincial Grand
Lodge of Victoria., in Australia; which was read and ordered to be
placed on file.
He also presented certain papers relative to the suspension of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49, and of JOSEPH MAYER, a member of that Lodge;
which were referred to the special committee to whom was committed
that portion of the Grand Master's Address which relates to those
subjects.
Bro. J. R. CRANDALL presented a petitionfro~D. N. ALLAN, who
was expelled by Iowa Ifill Lodge, No. 63, in the year 1856, and whose
expulsion was confirmed by the Grand Lodge in May, 1857, praying
that he may be restored, and a new trial granted; which was referred
to the Committee on Grievances.
The report of the Committee on Unfinished Business was taken
from the table, and its several subjects were acted upon as follows: The proposed new Constitution, which was submitted at the last
Annual Communication, and was laid over until the present one, upon
motion of the R." W." Deputy Grand Master, was recommitted to the
committee who presented it, with instructions to report it with amendments at the next Annual Communication.
The proposed amendments to Article XIII. of the present Constitution, presented at the last Annual f1ommunication, and reported on
page 101 of the printed proceedings of the year 1857, were both rejected.

(90]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

311

The petition from Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, presented at the last
Annual Communication, asking for the appointment of a District Deputy Grand Master for the Hawaiian Islands, was referred to the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.
The resolution which accompanied the report presented by the
special committee to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address, at the last Annual Communication, relative to the subject of" Side Degrees," was adopted, after being amended so as to read
as follows : Resolved, That the '.'Side Degt'ees," so called, form no part of legitimate Masonry, and the conferrmg them hereafter in Masonic Lodge rooms is discountenanced by this Grand Lodge.

The committee upon the donation of certain lands by Bro. A. M.
WINN was continued.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until IO o'clock, to-morrow
morning.

Jn @;ranh (ohgc.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Wednesday, May 13th, A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
yesterday were read and approved.
Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following additional mcn;i be rs as present and entitled to seat!!,
viz.: from
San Francisco, ... No. 7, ...... CHARLES .A.sHTON, Junior Warden.
SanJoaquin, ..... No.19, ...... A. G. BaowN, proxy for Worshipful Master.
Golden Gate,. ... No. 30,. ..... Wi11. S. PHELPS, proxy for Junior Warden.
.lforning Star,. .. No. 68,. .....WM. II. GRAY, proxy for Worshipful Master.
North Star,. ..... No. 91, ...... A. P. McCARTON, Senior Warden.
Jefferson,. ........ No. 07,. ..... J. A. JoHNSON, Junior Warden.
·St Mark's,. ..... No. 115, ...... F. L. SULLIVAN, Worshipful Master and P. M.

[91]

312

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

[May,

Which report was received and concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
Bro. L. C. OWEN offered the following resolution : Re.solved, That the dues of Michigan Oity Lodge, No. 47, for the year ending
March 4, 1858, be remitted.

Which resolution was referred to the Committee on Finance and
Accounts.
The Grand Secretary presented certain further papers from Mountain Forest J,odge, No. 75, relative to the suspension ofD. HARDY, by
that Lodge; which were referred to the Committee on Grievances.
Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, presented the following report : 1b the M:. W.·. Grand Lodge of California :-

Your committee, to whom was referred the petition of Bro. WrLLI.U! JOHNSON, of El D orado Lodge, No. 26, together with the proceedings of that Lodge
in bis case, and the subsequent action of t ho M .·. W.·. Grand Master thereupon,
beg leave to report that t hey fully endorse the action of the Grand Master, and
recommend its approval by the Grand Lodge ; and, as the case is one which
it is unnecessary to give in detail in a report intended for publication, they
suggest that a verbal statement of the facts be given by the chairman of the
committee, for the information of the Grand Lodge, and that the whole matter
be referred back to El Dorado Lodge, No. 26, for such prudent action as it
may see proper to take in the premises, by an endorsement or similar approval to t hat already given by the Lodge of the character and standing of the
petitioner, while a member thereof.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
W. H. HowAnn,
} ,
J , R. CRANDALL,
A. HoLLUB,
Oommietee.
THOS . H. WILLLUl:s,
WM. s. W&LLS,

Which report, after the verbal statement therein suggested had
been presented, was received ,and concurred in.
Bro. JOHN F. MORSE, from the Committee on Finance and Accounts, presented the following reports :To the M.·. W. •. Grand Lodge of California:-

Your committee, to whom was referred the Annual Report of the R:. W:.
Grand Secreti\ry, submit the following for your consideration. A careful investigation of the accounts of the Grand Secretary shows that the receipts and
disbursements during the last fiscal year, as detailed In his report, are properly
attested by receipts aud vouchers separately examined by us.
From bis report it appears that the aggregate receipts during the year last past
amount to . .... ..... . .•... . .....•.•• • .•.••... . ....•••••••... $9126 00
And that the balance on hand from last year was . . . ... . . . ......... 1751 83
Making a total of..... . .......... . ............. $10,877 83
l92)
.

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

S13

The principal sources of revenue from which this sum bas accumulated are
dues from the subordinates, Dispensations for the formation of new Lodges, issued
by the Grand Master, Charters issued by order of the Graud Lodge, and the sale
of Diplomas and books.
The following disposition of this money has been made, to wit :For account of salaries of Grand Officers, . .. .. •. ... . . . .. .") ... . ..... $3000 00
" Printing and binding, rent, stationery, aml contingent expenses of
the Grand Secretary's office,. . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2855 91
" Account of expenses of Grand officers and Grand Master's office,. . 425 00
::
"
" Special l\ppropriations per resolutions of Grand Lodge, 528 34
"
" The Library, . . .. , . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 213 06
"
"
" " General Fund, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
501 25
"
''
" " Masonic Hall Fund,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . 2000 00
Making o. total of . ...... ................... . .... $9523 56
This amount, deducted from the $10,877 ,83, leaves a balance on hand at the
end of the fiscal year of $1354,27. This balance, superadded to the $2000 now
at interest, and the accrued Interest up o11. the investment, $270, makes the clear
sum of $3624,27, which is now in possession of the Grand Lodge. This affords
a pleasing contrast with our financial condition three years ago, and ls an unexpectedly rapid emancipation from those pecuniary embarrassments which existed before that period. In less than three years this Grand Lodge has cancelled disagreeable pecuniary obligatlons, made liberal appropriations of its revenue, and yet acquired to itself the complacent assumnce of having a surplus
sum of $3624,27 at its command.
Under such circumstances your committee fe el like terminati ng their report
iu a rhapsody of congratulation; but a sense of harsh and disagreeable d\,lty will
not permit the indulgence. There are still incursive evils leaving their unnecessary traces upon the financial economy of onr Grand Lodge. And, as financial
committees are generally composed of men who arc commonly esteemed in proportion as they succeed in r epresenting the spirit of censorial grumblers, we
must crowd the poetry of our feelings into the chilling retreats of suspicion and
censure.
The Grand Lodge spends too much money, and is too little governed by the
limited appropriations which are annually adopted for its guide. Last year the
following appropriations were made to cover the expenditures for tlle fiscal
year :Fo~ expenses of Grand Officers and the Gl'llnd Master's office, .. ... . . . $500 00
•' Printing, and contingent expenses of Grand Secretary's office, .. . 2500 00
" Salary of the Grand Secretary, .. ........ .. ... . ...... . .. ... .. . 2400 00
"
"
" " Grand Treasurer,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... . 100 00
400 00
"
"
" " Assistant Grand Secretary,. ... .. . .... ....... . .. .
u Attendance and services of the Grand Tyler,.. . . ..... ..... .... .
100 00
Making a total of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... , .... . . . SGOOO 00
Now your committee would ask what have been the expenditures, exclusive
of $2000 invested 1 The answer is $7523 56 ; an excess of $1523 56 over the
fixed appropriations for the year. Whose fault is this? Is it to be charged to
the Grand Master, or Grand Secretary, or Grand Treasurer ? Not at all. It is
to be charged to the Grand Lodge itself in its constituent character-to a lack
of reference to the limits which have been unanimously erected, when propositions for appropriations are presented for tlle consideration of' the Grand Lodge.
In those appeals, which in all bodies of this kind are multiplied in proportion as
they are liberally responded to, we forget our resolutions of economy, and
launch out into an extravagance equal to t.he generous and munificent donations
of a man revelling in the dreams of a Sir John Barleycorn. Instead of an excess
of $1523,56, it is a wonder that the sum is not $2523,56. Now what shall we
do? Shall we cut down the Grand Secretary's salary, which is the largest special appropriation? . Your committee answer most emphatically, NO. We want

L93l

314

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

tal.ent in that office, and as long as we can obtain it, we Rhould pay a price for
it that will insure us from mortification and shame. Shall we abolish the other
salaries which are now almost nominal? We say again, no. Shall w:e do away
with aii contingent expenses? That is impossible. Then in what can we economise if not in the publishing expenses of this Grand Lodge ? This, indeed,
constitutes the great loop-hole of expenditure which your censorial committee
feel called upon to disapprove. Condensation must be practiced. if we would
relieve ourselves of an evil which is more beautiful than useful. How, or where
to commence this condensntion your commit.tee can scarcely determine; for the
ca.cizthu-scribendi is affecting eve11 your Committee of Finance, and indicates an
epidemical preval~nce ~f the disease which, ~taggers the heroi~m of economy
and terrifies caution with the fear of ~mc1de. Can we rnsmuate that our
Grand SP.cretary should apply the co~denser to his beautifully elaborate? Foreig11 Correspondence ? Your committee feel that that corre~pondence, ID the
bands of the present chairman, is a coronet Of brilliants, retlecting upon the
world the very tints and 'warmth of our open-hearted, California-nurtured Masonry. It is 11 magnetic circle which cnn hardly be subjected to parsimonious
pressure without the fear of drying up the lovely currents of sympathy that
constitute the most entranci11g beauties of our glorious Order. Cnn we sny to
our succeAsive Grand Masters, we wish you would study Webster on abbreviations? No no. Besides the indelicacy of such a suggestion, it would trammel
the very to~gue of benevolence, aud discourage the cultivation of executive zeal.
Whilst your committee feel that it might be a good thing for officers and committees to emulate one-another in the cultivation of a style of sententiousness
and brevity yet we think there arc other matters publishei:l every year that
might be very greatly abridged, without sacrificing any great good. We cannot
see the necessity of annually publishing fifty, sixty, or eighty p11ges of the returns of subordinates; and unless there be some mysterious and undiscovered
connection of this feature of our reports with the "ancient landrr;arka" of Masonry, (which nre such subtle and ubiquitous things that yonr committee have
not been able to recolnize them in their pursuit of economy), we would earnestly
recommend 11 large reduction of our publishing expenses by :l free condcnsatlo11
of such reports.
Before closing this report your committee cannot refrain from joining in tho
constant acknowledgements of this Grand Lodge of the peculiar style, method
and enviable ability of the Grand Secretary, whose acts we have been contemplating in this our most prolix report. In conclusion, we would respectfully
submit the following resolutions:Ruolve.d That it is a neceRsary and becoming dnty of the officers and m.embers of this' Grand Body to dimini~h the measure of our annual publications,
and in all proper matturs to exercise 11 disposition to practice a rigid economy.
Resolved, That the cost of the bound volumes of the transactions of this Grand
Lodge from 1850 to 1854 inclusive, which have been transmitted by the Grand
Secretary to the various Grand Bodies with which we are in correspondence, and
to our .representatives abroad, be paid to him from the treasury of the Granil
Lodge.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN F. MORSE, )

E. LANE,

,J. B. CARTER,
J. W. BROWN,

Committee.

H. C. HARRISON, .

To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee, to whom was referred the Annual Report of the R:. W.·.
Grand Treasurer, respectfully 11ubmit that from a careful examination of his

[94)

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

H15

books, accounts,· and vouchers, they are satisfied that be has discharged the duties
of that office with perfect fidelity.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN F. MoRSE,}
E. LANE,
J. B. CARTER,
Committee.
J, W. BROWN,

H.

c. H.t.RRISON,

1b the M:. W:. Grand Lodgeqf Califf¥1'11ia:Your.Committee, to whom was referred the petition of Hawaiian Lodge, No.
21, submit that, for reasons frequently reiterated in this Grand Lodge we would
recommend the remission of the dues of said Lodge for the year ending March
~. 1858.

All of which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN F. MORSE, )
E. LANE,
J. B. CARTER,
Committee.

J

J. W. BROWN,
H. HARRISON,

c.

All which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolutions accompanying them were adopted.
Bro. THOMAS P. HAWLEY, from the Committee on Dispensations
and Charters, presented the following report:To the M:. W. ·. Grand Lodge qf California:.Your committee. ~o whom was referred the records books and papers of tho
various Lodges workmg under dispensation, beg leave' to, report that in the di&charge ?f the duty assfgn~d them, they have carefully examined the books and
proceedmgs of the followmg Lodges, viz. :J:'allecito, Clinton, Fidelity, Ionic, Alamo, Vwalia, Sotoyomi, Table Mountain Progru.1
La L'ayette, and llermann.
"" '
'
Yonr Committee are pleased to state that the records of these Lodges have
generally been kept in accoruance with the regulations of this Grand Lodge
nud that most o~ the~ appeur .to be in 11 prosperous nnd flourishing condition'.
Tho~e of Vall~to, Clinton, Ionic, Alamo, Sotoyomi, Progrua and La Fayette Lodges
nre m t~e mam correct, nnd the proceedings regular. Notwltbst.anding the
admonitions of the Committees 011 Dispensationi and Charters in their repor~s for several years past, many of the Lodges still continue th~ practice of
calling. fro!1J labor to refreshment, inRtead of closing after all the work in the
· degree is d1Eposed of; and some of them, at their first meetings failed to ~bow
thnt the !'PPlica~ts for aeoond and tl1ird degrees were examined' in open Lod e
as to their protlc1i;11cy. Dnt the representatives present from thosf:l Lod es i~­
for!ll your Co~m1ttee that these hist were errors of the Secretaries wf0 had
omitted to notice the facts.
'
Your Committee refer with pleasure to the books of Fidelity, 1able Mountain
nnd Hermann Lodges; and award to them the credit of presenting the neatest
record~, and of transacting all their business in proper form and regular order.
The mmutes of Hermann Lodge are kept in both the English and German languages, an~ the brethren, up?n starting their Lodge, seem to have manifested 1111
ear~est de~1re to conform strictly to all our rules and regulations. Several of'
t~e1r rueetm~s were b~ld for the purpose of explaining the constitution, resolut1o_ns a?d edicts of tins Grand Lodge, and of exemplifying and becoming protl~1ent m the work. As the dispensation was granted to this Lodge only on the
sixth of .March l11Bt, but little work in the conferring of degrees has been performed.
h V~salia Lodge. bas forwarded only a transcript, purpo~ting to be a true copy of
t e mmntes ofs111d Lodge. In view of the fact that the Grand Lodge, ill Art. x.

L95J

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

316

[May;

Section 7, of the Constitution, requires the Books of the Lodge to be presented
for inspection, and inasmuch as the brethren of thl\t Lodge have not as. yet
completed any work-not having conferred the Master's degree-you_r Comm1tt~e
are of the opinion that a Charter should not be granted them nt this Commumcntion.
.
d
d
di s
After a full and careful investigation of the entire recor s an procee i;ig
of the several Lodges above named, your Committee recommend the adoption
of the following resolutions : Resolved, That Charters be issued to Vallecito, Clinton, Fidelity, Jonie, 4zamo,
Sotoyumi Table .Mountain, Progreu, La Fayette and llerma1111 Lodges, according to
the date~ of their Dispensations, and that their representatives present be admit·
ted to seats in the Grand Lodge.
.
,,
Resolved That the Dispensation of Visalia Lodge be contmued until the next
Annual Co:0munication.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
THOMAS P. liAWL}:Y, }
.
J, W. HARVILLE,
. Oommittee.
.
M. P. H. LOVE,
WM. A. J.umARY,
R. B. MOYES,

Which report was received and . concurred in, and the accompanying resolutions were adopted.
·Bro. JAMES J,, ENGLISH, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following reports : To the .M.'. W.·. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the papers in the matter of the expulsion of CHARUS CLARK, by Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30, h~ve bad the ~!line
under consideration. The proceedings are regular, nod the ev1d~nce sufficient
to sustain the verdict nnd judgment of the Lodg~. Your Committee therefore
recommend the adoption of the following resolntton : Raolved. That the expulsion of CHARI.ES CLANK, from all the ri~bts and priv·
!veges of :Masonry, by Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30, be and the 1;ame 1s hereby con·
firmed.
.
JAMEl'I L. ENGLISH,}
All of which is respectfully ~ubm1tted.
CIJA.RLES RAIBH,
1•. BATES,
'
Oommittu.
A. L. :MORRISON,
E. w. ROBERTS,

w...

1b the .1.lf.'.
Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee, to whom wns referred the papers in the several matters of
the expulsion of J.P. EMERY and J. 1\1. S. CooK, by ll01JJard Lod~e, N!l· 96, have
hl\d the same under consideration. The objection to the proceedmgs 1~ the same
in both cases. The trials were bad e:r: partc, and were b~sed upon the fact shown
by the record in each case, that the accused were not residents of the county, .ancl
that their residence WW! unknown. Ex parte trials, how~ver, are only autbom.:e.d
by the regulations of the Grand Lodge w~en t.he residence of the accused IS
out· of the State nnd unknown. Your Committee therefore recommend the
adoption of the following resolution :, .
,
Rewlved That the action of Iloward Lodge, No. 06. m the caseR of J.P. EMEItY and J. :M. S. CooK, be reversed and aet aside, and the cases remanded for
further proceedings.
JAMES L. ENGLISH, }
All of which is respectfully submitted.
CHARLES RAisH,
L. BATES,
Oommitles.
A. L. :MORRISON,
E. w. ROBERTS,

[96]

1858.]

317

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1b the M." W. ·• Grand Lodge of Oalifornia.:Your Committee, to whom were referred the papers in the matter of the expulsion of PETER A. WILLUMS, by Bear .Mountain Lodge, No. 76, have bad the
same under consideration. The record does not show that the accused was either
present or summoned to appear at the trial, or that be was served with a copy
of the charlfes made against him. Your committee therefore recommend the
adoption of the following resolution:Ruolved, That the action of Bear .Mountain Lodge, No. 76, in the case of PETER A. WILLUMS, be reversed and set aside, and that the CW!e· be remanded for
further proceedings.
All of which ls respectfully submitted.
J Ali!EB L. ENGLISH, )
CHARLES RAISH 1
r~. BATES,
Committtt.
A. L . MOIUUSON 1
E. W. ROBERTS,
To the .M. •• W. ·. Grand Lodge qf California:Your Committee, to whom were referred the appeals in the matter of the sus·
pension of B. F. FISK, by Humboldt Lodge, No. 79, have bad the same under
consideration. The regulations of the Grand Lodge require that the examina·
tion of charges shall be bad in a Lodge specially convened and notified for the
purpose. In this case the trial was bad at a regular communication, and there
is nothing in the record to show that the members were specially notified and
convened for the purpose. Your committee therefore recommend the adoption
of the following resolution :Raolved, That the action of Humboldt Lodge, No. 19, in the case of B. F. FISK
\Je reversed and set aside, and that the case be remanded for further proceeding~'.
All of which Is respectfully anbmitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH,
CHARLES R.usH,
L. BATES,
Committee.
A. L. MORRISON,
J
E. W. ROBERTS,
To the M.'.
Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:Your Committee, to whom was referred the appeal In the matter of the
expulsion of C. F. BRAINERD, by California Lodge, No. 1, have had the case under
consideration, and find, from an examination of the papers, that the evidence
fully supports the decision of the Lodge. There is notbmg in the record to sustain the objection offered, that the members of the Lodge were not specially noti·
fled of the time and place of the meeting and trial; but on the contrary, the largo
attendance of members, and the statement of the W.'.M ... at the opening of the
Lodge, that it had been called for the purpose of investigating the charge prefer·
red, as shown by the transcript, would indicate a compliance with the regulatlonR
on the subject. It is also objected that Rule No. 1 of the Regulations for Tri11.ls
was not complied with, but the record sufficiently shows that the accused did not
reside in the State, and that.his residence was unknown, to authorize the Lodge to
proceed e:r: parte. As to the objection that the accused had been previously tried
on the same charge and acquitted, the committee say that there is nothing in the
Constitution or Laws of Masonry which prohibit a second trial for the same of.
fence. They therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:Raolved, That the expulsion of C. F. BRAINERD from all the right! and privi1eges of Masonry, by California Lodge, No. 1, be and the same is hereby confirmed.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH,
CHARLES RAISH,
L. BATES,
Committee.
A. L. MORRISON,
I
E. W. ROBERTA,
)

1

w...

l

13

L97l

318

1858.J

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

To the M. ·. W. •. Grand Lodge of California :Your committee, to whom was referred the appeal in the matter of the suspension of'O. J. PRESTON, by California Lodge, No. 1, would respectfully report
that they·have had the caRe under consideration, and finn in the record sufficient
evidence to sustain the verdict and judgment of the Lodge. The two objections
taken, that the Lodge had not been properly notified, and that the number of
members present was too small to make it proper to proceed with the trial, were
not pressed before your committee by the counsel of Mr. PREHTON, and if they
had been, are etfectually answered by the record. The committee therefore
r ecommend the adoption of the following resolution:Resolved, That the suspension nf 0. J. PRESTON from all the rights and privileges ·of Ma~oury, by Calif01'nia Lodge, No. 1, be and the same Is hereby confirmed.
All of which is respectfully ~ubmitted.
JAMES L. E:t..-OLISH, )
CHARLES RusH,
L. BATES,
Committee.
A. L. MORRISON,
E. W. RoHERT~,

All which reports were received and concurred in, and the accompanying resolutions were adopted.
Bro. JOHN F. MORSE, from the Committee on Finance nnd Accounts, presented the following report : -

w... Grand Lodge of California:~
Your committee, to whom was referred the resolution proposing to remit the
cluee of Michigan Oity Lodge, No. 47, respectfully report, that the •applicat ion of this Lodge for the above relief is made in consequence of the destructive
lire which swept away that city in a few hours, and in which the entire property
and hall ofthe Lodge were destroyed. This, according to precedent resolutions
of this Grand Lodge, is a sufficient cause to authorize the icranting of the favor
a~ked; and we therefore recommend the adoption of the r esolution, as follows :Reio!ved, That the dues of Michigan City Lodge, No. 47, for the year ending
March 4, 1858, be and are hereby remitted.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN F. MORSE,
E. LANE,
•T. B. CARTER,
Committee.
J , W. BROWN,
H. C. HARRISON,
1b the M..,

l

J

Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolution was
adopted.
On motion of Bro. P. W. SHEPHEARD, it was
. Ordered, That the Grand Lodge proceed to the election of its officers for the
easuing year at 11 o'clock, A. M., to-morrow.

Bro. E. W. ROBERTS offered the following resolution:Resolved, That Rule 1, Section 1, of the Regulations for Trials, be amended
by adding the following thereto :" In caee the accused has absconded from his usual place of residence, or his
residence is supposed to be within this State, but is unknown, notice that charges
have been preferred against him shall be forwarded to every Lodge within this

[98)

319

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

jurisdiction, wherein shall be stated the date when such charges will be tried
which shall be not less than two months from the date when they were preferred'.
Which resolution was referred to the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.
The Grand Lodge wast.hen called off until 2 o'clock, this afternoon.

Jn ~ranb Jtobgc.
AFTERNOON SESSION,

}

Thursday, May 13th, .A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o' clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. A. MARTIN, from the Committee on Credentials, reported
the following additional members as present and entitled to seats
viz. :-from
'

FidelitiJ, ...... ... No.-.... {Louis CoHN, WorshiP,ful Master and P. M.;
·
F. A. BENJAMIN, Senior Warden.
lonic,. ... ..... ..... No. - .......E. II. VAN DECAR, Worshipful Master.
Alamo, ............ No. - ....... JoIIN E. MITCHELL, Worshipful Master.
Sotoyomi, ........ No. - .......JOHN D. GRANT, proxy for Worshipful MO:Ster.
TableMountain,No. - .... { J. D. KEATING, P.roxy for Worshipful Master;
N. D. WITT, Semor Warden.
P-rogres11, ........ :No. - .. , ... .LEVI KELLER, Worshipful Master and P. M.
La Fayette, ..... No. - . ......W1i1. G. LEE, Worshipful Master.
Hermann, ........ No. - .... { J oHN A. REICHERT, Worshipful Master ;
·
JAcon F . HAEIINLEN, Past Master.
Which report was received and concurred in, nnd the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
Bro. A. G. ABELL olrered the following resolut ion:R_esolved, That the Grand Lodge of Canada, which was formed at tlie Cit of
Ham1~ton, on the tenth day of October, 1855, be, and is hereby fully recognfzed
hy this Grand Lodge.

Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. JOHN F. MORSE offered the following resolution : Resolved, That RA.HEY Biv1rn, who was expelled by San Joaqui~ Lodge, No.
19, O';! the twent:-s:-~rst day of September, 1854, be, and is hereby restored to all
the rights and pr1v1legesof Masonry.

[99]

320

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Which resolution, on motion of Bro. THos. H. WILLIAMS, was
referred to a special committee of three, with instructions to take testimony in said case, and to report thereon nt the next Annual Communication.
The Grand Master announced as such special committee Bro. P. W. Shepheard,

On the case of Rasey Bi'ven : .. . .. . . . . .. . . . .. ..
Bro.

{

"
"

Alex. G. Abell,
Thos. H. Williams . .

WM. H. HowARD, from the Committee on Masonic Juris-

prudence, presented the following reports:Th the M.·. W:. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition from Hawaiian Lodge, No.
21, at Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands, asking that a District Deputy Grand Master
for those Islands may be appointed, bep; leave to report that, there being no authority under the Constitution of this Grand Lodge for the appointment of such
an officer as a District Deputy Grand Mester, it is not possible to grant the prayer
of the petitioners.
All of which is respectfully submittecl.
H. HOWARD,
1
J. R. CRANDALL,
Committee.
A. HoLLOB,
THOS. H. WILLI..\MS,

l

w.

WM.

s. W"1LLS,

To the M. •. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee, to whom was referred the correspondence bet.ween Hawaiian
Lodge, No. 21, and the Grand Secretary, relative to the pnblication of the previous action of this Grand Lodge regarding the Lodge" Le Progriade l'Oceanie,"
report, that in answer to a request from the ·officers of Hawaiian Lodge,
the Grand Master, through the Grand Secretary, authorized the officers of
that Lodge, to publish in Honolulu, all which has heretofore been published in the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge, together with such other matter connected with
the differences between said Lodge, and the Lodge " Le Progrea de l'Oceanie, "
" as might, in their Masonic discretion, seem proper for publication ; " and your
committee recommend that the action of the Grand Master therein be approved
by this Grand Lodge.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
w.
H. HOWARD,
}
.
J. R. CRANDALL,
A. HOLL~
Oommittee.
'£HOS, H. WILLU.JllS,
WM.

s. WELI..S,

1b the M. •• W:. Grand Lodge qf California :Your Committee, to whom was referred the correspondence between Humboldt Lodge, No. 79, and the Grand Master, relative to the removal of that Lodge
from the town of Humboldt ~o the town of Eureka, in the same county, which
removal was approved by the Grand Master, have examined the papers submitted to them, and recommend that the approval be confirmed.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
W. H. How ARD,
J. R. CRANDALL,
A. HOLLUB,
Committee.
THOS. H. :WILLiil!B,
WM, S. WELLS,

l
J

[100]

1858.]

321

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

1b the M." W. •. Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee, to whom was referred a circ11lar from a Committee of the
M:. W.". Grand Lodge of Maine, and an accompanying resolution of that Grand
Body, urging the formation of a General Grand Lodge, "at the time and place
of meeting of the General Grand Chapter and General Grand Encampmeµt, in
September, 1859," beg leave .respectfully to report, that after due consideration
of the matter, they have arrived at the conclusion that the formation of such a
body is at this time impracticable, and that therefore its further consideration by
this Grand Lodge is inexpedient. The failures which have heretofore attended
every effort directed in that behalf, and the non-concurrence of a large majority
of the Grand Lodges of the United States in the Articles of Confederation propo~ed in the conve11tions heretofore assembled, in the opinion of your committee
plainly Indicate that the direction of the general sentiment of the Craft is adverse to the formation of such a body, and ebadow forth what is likely to be the
result of any other convention which might be assembled at the time proposed
for a similar purpose. As the past will show that we cannot reasonably expect
o.n active representatfon in a Masonic Convention held at a great distance from
us, without sending delegates for the.t especial ~urpose, whose expenses would
necessarily be heavy, and must of course be paid, we think it inexpedient and
unadvisable to subject the Grand Lodge to such expense, where there is no probability of an accruing benefit.
Could your Committee be assured that a General Grand Lodge of the United
States could be formed, clothed with limited and strictly defined powers, such
a~, while giving it efficiency as a dernier re:iort for the final settlement of such
Masonic difficulties as might with propriety be brought forward for its action,
as the Supreme Head of Symbolic Masonry for the regulation of its work and
lecture~, and the establishment of uniformity throughout the United States
would at the same time deprive it of all power for evif, by an abuse of author!~
ty or a centralization of power, they would cheerfully advocate the assembling
of another Convention for that purpose. But, believing as they do, that "a
consummation so devoutly to be wished" is at this time wholly lmpra.cticable
and also for other reasons aBsigned, they would respectfully recommend that n~
further action be at prescn t bad in reference thereto.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
w. H. HowABI>,
1
J. R. CRANDALt.,
A. HOLI.UB,
Committee.
1~uos. H. WILLUJllB,
WM. S. WELLS,

J

All which report8 were received and concurred in.
Bro. CHARLES MARSH, from the Special Committee, to whom was
referred that pox:tion of the Grand Master's Address relative to the
suspension of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49, presented the following report:

To the M." W:. Grand Lodge qf California:Your Committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Address of the
M:. W.·. Grand Master relative to the suspension of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49 respectfully report, that they have exa.mined Into the causes which required' the
Grand Master to demand the Charter of said Lodge, and arc unanimously of the
opinion that his action in that case was not ouly in every respect proper and
justifiable, but that the faithful discharge of the responsibility and trust confided to him by the Fraternity, required it at bis hands.
A ~etltion has been presented to your committee purporting to be sigued by
a portion of the members of said suspended Lodge, asking for a restoration of
its Charter. It is also known to your committee that a large number of the
members of said Lodge, including the W:.M:. and other officers, have formed a
new Lodge, and have j11st obtained from this Grand Lodge a Charter therefor
under the name of Fidelity Lodge. It is admitted by all the parties, whether

[101]

322

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

petitioners for the restoration of the Charter, or those fo:ming ihe new Lodite,
that the suspension was a punishment well merited and JUStly. and prop.e~ly rnflict'ld; and there has not been on the part of the abo.ve mentioned pet1tto~ers
an attempt at extenuation or apology for the acts which caused the susp~n@100.
Believing therefore that the reasons for the arrest of the Charter are qmte sufficient for' its final r~vocation and deeming it proper to present an axample to
the subordinates of the consequences of ul!masonic C?nduct such as was he~~
exhibited, your committee offer the following resolutions and recommend then
adoption:ReJolved That the action of the M.'. W. o, Grand Master, in nrresting the Charter of Leb~non Lodge, No. 49, is fully approved, and that this Grand Lodge does
now finally revoke said Charter, and declare @aid Lodge extlnc!·
~ved. That the Grand Secretary issue to each member of said Lodge, In good
standing, ~ certificate of dismissal. upon the payment of .nil due.s and cha~ges
standing against him upon the books of said Lodge at the time of its suspension.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
CHARLES MAUER,
A. HAYWARD,
JOHN M. TINGLEY,
L. C. VAN ALLllN,
I. N. BARNES,

Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolutions
accompanying it were adopted.
Bro. T. P. HAWLEY, from the Committee on Dispensations and
Charters, presented the following reports : To the M: .

w..,

Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:Your Committee to whom was referred that portion of the M:. w.~. Grand
Master's Address r~lative to the Issuing of Dispensations to new Lodg~s, b~g
leave to report' that in their opinion, the Issuing of the several Dlspen@at1ons m
said Address referred to, he.ve been benell~ial t? th~ interests _of the Ore.ft, and
that they therefor~ cordially e.pprove ~f his action m the premises.
All of which 1s respectfully submitted.
THOM.1.S P. HAWLEY,
)
J. w. HARVILLE,
M. P. H. LovF.,
Committee.
WM. A. JANUARY,
R. B. MOYES,

I

1b the M." W.'. Grand Lodge qf Calif<Yrnia : -

Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition of several brethren, .residing at and nee.r Nicolaus, in Sutter County, praying for a warrant of co~st1tu­
tion empowering them to establish a Lodge at that place, to be called Jfioolaus
Lodge, beg leave to report that they have examined the sa';De, aud find ~t to be
in proper form, accompanied by the necessary recommendattons and cert1flcates,
and signed by a constitutional number of brethren.
Your committee are of the opinion the.ta Charter ijhould not be granted to
any Lodge until the records of Its work have been pres~nted to the Grnnd
Lodge for Its inspection, particularly in applications where .so few names app~at•
upon the petition; and they therefore recommend the adoption of the followmg
resolution:R=lve.d. That a Dispemoation be issued to the peti.tloners to open and hold n
Lodge at Nicolaus, In Sutter County, to be called NicolauB Lodge.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
THOMAS P. HAWLEY, }
J. w. HARV!LLK,
M. P. H. LOVE,
Cinnmittes.
WM. A. JANUARY,.
R. B. Mon:s,

[1021

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

323

Both which reports were received and conc~rred in, and the accompanying resolution was adopted.
Bro. A. G. ABELL offered the following resolution:RMolved, That the Grand Master be requested to inquire into the case of W.
W. REUBOTTo,11, formerly a member of Lo& Angdea Lodge, No. 42, and now a
member of Lexington Lodge, No. 104, who is alleged to have been heretofore expelled by Franklin Lodge, No. 9, in the State of Arknnsas; and to take such
measures in regard to that case as the information he shall receive may, in his
judgment, render proper.

Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. A. G. ABELL also offered the following resolution:Resolved, That hereafter all notices of expulsion, suspension, striking from
the roll, and reinstatement, shall be sent to the Grand Secretary, to be by him
disseminated among the Lodges In the same manner as is now prescribed in the
14th Section of Article X. of the Constitution, relative to notices of rejection
for Initiation.

Which resolution was adopted.
Ilro. }J. W. ROBERTS presented the following memorial:-

w..,

Jb the M:.
Grand Lodge of Calif<Yrnia .1 represent to your Worshipful Body, that Bro. JOHN E. CooPER, formerly a
member of Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, was stricken from the roll of that
Lodge during the year 1856 ; that he had been a member of said Lodge, by affiliation, for two years or more prior to the time when he was so stricken from
the roll, and that Grand Lodge dues were paid for him by said Lodge during all
that time ; and that information has been received by said Lodge that Bro. CooPER
Is now, and has been for more than two years past, a member by affiliation of
Minnesota Lodge, No 67, without having withdrawn from, or In any manner severed his connection ·with Rough and Ready Lodge.
All of which is respectfully presented, for such redress as mny be deemed
just and proper.
E. W. ROBl:RTB,
W.·.M: . qf R. and R. Lodge, No. 62.

Which was received and referred to the Committee on Masonic
Jurisprudence.
Bro. A. HoLLUB offered the following resolution:Resolved, That the @um of seventy-live dollars be transmitted to LouUiana
Relief Lodge, No. 1, in the City of New Orleans, to reimburse that body for expenditbres in relieving distressed brethren from this jurisdiction, during the year
preceding its last report.

Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. A. L. l\foRRISON presented a memorial from Roae' s B ar Lodge,
• No. 89, 'asking permission to change its location from Rose' s Bar .to
Temperance Hill, a distance of half a mile; which was received, and
leave was granted to change the location of said Lodge, as requested.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock to.7morrow
morning.
[103]

I

[May,

jOtJRNAL OF l>ROCEEDl~GS.

324

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

325

Which report was received, and, on m.otion of Bro. MORSE, was
referred to a special committee of three.

Jn @)ranb Jtobgc.

The Grand Ma_ster named the following brethren as such special
committee-

MORNING SESSION,

Friday, May 14th~ A. L. 5858.

}

The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, A. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
yesterday were read and approved.

·

The R.·. W:·. RECTOR E. COLE, Past Senior Grand Warden, appeared and took his seat.
Bro. A. MARTIN, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the
following additional members as present, and entitled to seats, viz. :
from
J F SwIFT, proxy for Junior Warden.

California, ....... No. 1, .. · { R. E. CoLE, Past Master.

Eureka, .......... No. 16, ...... M. HYNEMAN, Past Master.
Parfaite Unwn,No. 17, ......JosEPil HAINE, Worshipful Master and P. M.
Martinez,. ........ No. 41, ...... W. II. BUCKLEY, Junior Warden.
DAVID TAGGART, Junior Warden.

Michigan City, No. 47,... { BENJAMIN BONNET, Past Master.

Mottnt'n Forest,No. 75, ......JONATHAN R. ELLIS, Worshipful Master.
Hermann, ....... No. -, ...... FRANCIS STAUD, Junior 'Varden.
Which report was received and concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
Bro. JOHN F. MORSE, one of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall
Fund, presented the following report:'lb the JL" W:. Gr11,nd Lodge of Oalifornia:The undersigned, one of th~ Tru~tecs of this M:. W:. Gr~nd Lodge, to whom

has been assigned the duty of mvestmg $2,000 of the Masomc Hall Fund, would
respectfully report that on the third day of November last, he received the amount
above stated from the M:. W.-. Grand Treasurer; and that, with the consent of
the other two Trustees, on the third day following he invested the same for a
period of six months, at an interest of two and one quarter per cent. per month,
payable monthly - the principal being secu~ed by a bond an~ m~rtgag~ upon
property which is described in the accompanymg papers, and which 1s considered
good and ample security for the amount.
This report is made with the hope that hereafter the Board of Trustees may
be all elected from one place, and that the subscriber may be relieved from that
duty in the coming year.
All of :which is respectfully submitted.
Jom1 F. MoRSE, Jlrwtee.

[104J

On the Report of the Trustees...............

Bro. P. W. Shepheard,
" A. D. Rock,
{ " Lewis Reynolds.

Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, presented the following report : 'lb the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of Oalifrmiia :-

Your Committee, to whom was referred certain portions of the Grand Master's
Address, (some of which they have already reported upon), having duly considered the remaining references, beg leave to report as follows:They approve of the refusal of the Grand Master to grant dispensations ""for
the conferring the degrees in less time than that provided by the Constitution," but
would not be understood as doubting bis prerogative to do so, if, in his judgment, be had deemed it expedient and proper ; and are of opinion that no emergency has arisen during bis term of service which would have rendered such
t\ction on his part advisable.
They a1;>prove, also, of his refusal to grant dispensations " for a re-ballot for
persons rejected within the time prescribed by the Constitution," but assert
his prerogative to have done so had he seen proper. One of your committee, as
the Grand Lodge is aware, has been placed in a position to render a just appre·
ciation of the Grand Master's action in reference to this, as well as other matters,
at least supposable. Having grantea several diBpensations to ballot for rejected
applicants, at the earnest solicitation of divers LodgeB, and upon what seemed
to be good and sufficient grounds, he was pained to learn, in due course of time,
that in more than one instance the privilege thus conferred bad been abused,
and advantage taken of the absence of an objecting brother, or other improper
appliances used to foist upon the Fraternity an unacceptable and perhaps an
unworthy applicant, He took occasion, at an early day, to 'confer with the
present M:. W.-. Grand Master In relation thereto, and was gratified to learn
from him that they coincided in opinion as to the Inexpediency of granting
dispensations for such purposes.
As regards "a thorough revision of the standing resolutions," and "a repeal
of tbe resolution permitting the subordinate Lodges to ballot for the three
degrees at the same time," your committee would remark ibat they seem to be
referred to by the Grand Master, in connexion with the consideration and final
action in reference to the new Constitution, which it was supposed would take
place during the present Communication; and, as that matter has been laid over
until the next Annual Communication, your committee would recommend that a
similar disposition be made of these also, by referring them to a special committee to revise, condense and report them at that time.
All of which is respedfully submitted.
W. H. HOWARD,
)
J, R. CRANDALr,,
A. HoLLUB,
Cbmmittee.
THos. H. Wu.LIA.Ms,
WM. s. WELLS,
Which report was received and concurred in; and the Grand Master announced that the special committee, therein suggested, would be
the same committee to which the proposed new Constitution had been
re-committed.

14

[105)

326

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Bro. WILLIAM H. HoWA,RD, from the same committee, presented
the following report ; -

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

327

1

day of February, 1858, he was summoned by Waahington Lodge to show cause
why ht; should not be stricken from its roll for non-payment of dues. It then
appearmg that he was holding membership iu Concord Lodge, claim was made on
said Lodge by direction of the Worshipful Master of Washington Lodge, for this
am~unt- the claim b_ein~ based upon the provisions of the 9th section of
Article X. of the Coostitutwn, and the 70th Stnndlng Resolution of the Grand
Lodge.
·
Your committee are of the opinion that the case in question does not fall
within ihe provisions of the Constitution and Standing Resolution above referred
to, believing that they are to be construed ns applying exclusively to the recep~ion into members~ip by affiliation ; and that Concord Lodge therefore is not
Indebted to Washington Lodge for the amount of the dues of the delinquent
brother, but that such dues remain a personal claim against the brother, who has
never been received into legal membership in Concord Lodge.
Holding, therefore, that the fact of a brother naming himself in a petition,
or being named in a Dispensation for 11. new Lodge, would not render such
Lodge liable for his indebtedness to his former Lodge, and anxious to prevent
the recurrence of questions of this nature, yonr committee recommend the adop·
tion of the following resolution : Resolved, That hereafter all petitioners for a Dispensation, who are members
of .Lodges within this jurisdiction, be required to state In their petition the
names and numbers of the respective Lodges to which they Inst belonged, and
to accompany the same with certificates from tho Secretaries thereof that they
arc free from all indebtedness to the same.
1
All of which is respectfully submitted.
WM. II. HOWARD,
}
J, R. CRA!iDALJ,,
A. HoLLUB,
Committee.
Taos. H. WILLiillB 1
WM. s. WELLS,

J

1'o the ltf:. W." Grand Lodge of Oalifomia :-

To the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California.'Your Committee, to whom was referred the memorial of Bro. E.W. RoRERTB,
W.".Jf:. of Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, relative to the position of Bro. JOH;)(
E. Coo~ER, who is claimed ns a member of that Lodge, and also of Minne8ota Lodge,
No. 67, beg leave to report thai, upon examination of the caRe, the following
facte were developed:Bro. CooPER first affilin ted with Rwgh and Ready Lodge, and afterwards removed to the vicinity of Minnesota, where he became one of the signers to a
petition for a new Lodge at that place, for which a Dispensation was issued,
u.nd which was subsequently chartered as J[innesota Lodge, No. 67. Having
never demitted from Rough and Ready Lod~e, be was still claimed as a member
thereof, and during the year 1856 was stricken from the roll of said Lodge for
non-payment of dues. Payment of his arrearages Is now demanded by Rough
and Ready Lodge from Minne8ota Lodge.
Your committee are of opinion that Jfinne8ota Lodge is responsible to ROt1gh
and Ready Lodge for all dues paid Into its treasury by Bro. JoHN E. CoOPER, subsequent to the date of its Charter, less the amount° of dues paid to the Grand
· Lodge by that Lodge, on bis account i but that it is not liable for any indebtedness of bis to Rough and Ready LoC1ge previous to that time, be never having
legally acquired a membership in JJfinneaota Lodge. They therefore recommend
the adoption of the following resolution : Ruolved, That Minnuota Lodge, No. 67, iij hereby required to pay over to
Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, all dues paid Into its treasury by Bro. JOHN E.
CooPER, subsequent to the date of its Charter, less the amount of' dueA paid to
the Grand Lodge by r eason of his name being borne on its roll.
All of which is respeetfully submitted.
w. H . How•nv,
J. R. CR•ND.A.LI.,
Oommifffe.
A. Ho1.LUB 1
Taos. H. WILr.uxe,

WM. S. WEu.s,

Which report was received.
Bro. J. L. ENGLISH offered the followin~ amendment to the resolution which accompanied the report: Provided, That the amount thereof shall not exceed the amount standing
against said brother upon the books of Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, at the
time his name was stricken from the roll.

Pending the consideration of which, the whole subject was laid on
the table.
Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the ~ame committee, presented the
following reports : 1b the M:. W. ·. Grand Lodge of Oalifoniia :Y our;Committee, to whom were referred certain differences between lVashington Lodge, No. 20, and Concord Lodge, No. 117, have had the Rame under consideration, and report as follows : Waahington Lodge claims from Concord Lodge the amount of dues owing by a
delinquent brother whom the first naml!d Lodge regards aB having been received
into membership by the 'last.
It appears that the brother , then a member of Wiuhington Lodge, was 11 peti·
tioner for the establishment of Concord Lodge, which Inst was Instituted by
Charter on the fifteenth day of May, 1857, no Di8pensatioo having been previously
issued ; and that, on the first day of June, 1857, he signed the by-laws of that
Lodge, not having then, or yet, demitted from Wiuliington Lodge. On the fourteenth

[106)

1858.]

Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolut ion offered by llro. E. W.
Ro.BBRTS, proposing an amendment to Rule 1, Sec. 1, of the Regulatlond for
Trials, respectfully recommend the following as a substitute therefor : Reaolved, That Rule 1, Sec. 1. of the Regulations for Trials, be amended by
striking out from the eleventh line the .word "and," and substituting therefor
the word " or."
All of whloh is respectfully submitted.
W. H. How.urn,
}
J. R. CRAND.ALJ.,
A. liOLLUD,
Committee.
'l.'aoe. H. WILLI.I.KS,
WM. S. WELI.S,

Both which reports were received and laid on the table.
Bro. WM. H. HowAnD, from the special committee to whom was rnferred the appeal of Bro. A.H. RosE, also presented the following report:
1b the M:. w... Grand Lodge of California :.J......
Your Committee, to whom was reforred the appeal of Bro. A. H. RosE from the
action of Henry Olay Lodge, No. 95, l'l'8pectfully report that they find from
an extr act from the minutes, that said Loclp;e did on the seventh day of January,
1857, by resolution, levy an assessment of thirty dollars on each of its members.
On the twenty-eighth day of October , 1857, Bro. RosE was stricken from the
roll for non-payment of dues. On the twenty-seventh day of January, 1858, a
communication was received from Bro. RosE, accompanied by nine dollars, es
payment ·of dues, requesting a demit, which by ballot was refused, nod _on
motion, the Secretary was instructed to inform him of the result of said ballot.

(107)

J

, 328

[Ma:y,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Your committee are of opinion that the Lodge had no power to levy extra
assessments upon its members, and that consequently the action of the Lodge in
refusing a demit to Bro. RosE, and striking him· from the roll, was erroneous ;
they therefore offer the following resolution :Resolved, That Henry Ol,ay Lodge, No. 95, be and is hereby directed to furnish
a demit to Bro. A.H. RosE, dated January, 27, 1858.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
w. H. H1lWARD, }
J, R. CRANDALL, Committee.
A. HOLLUB,
Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolution
accompanying it was adopted.
Bro.JOHN F. MoRSE, from the Committee on Finance and Accounts,
presented the following report: 1b the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:-

Your Committee, to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Secretary's Report relative to the surrender or the Charters of lrnoa llill Lodge, No. 63,
and Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74, together with the books and papers of those
Lodges and the statements regarding the settlement of their affairs, report that
they find from examination that there were sufficient causes for the surrender,
and that the monetary affairs ot" those Lodges have been settled as satisfactorily
as poll8ible. They therefore' offer the following resolution :Resolved That the surrender of the Charters of Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63, and
Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74, be accepted, aud that the Grand Secretary be instructed to collect, so far as possible, all outstanding dues to those Lodges.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JOHN F. MORSE,
E. LANE,
J. B. CARTER,
Committte.
J. H. BROWN,
H. C. HARRISON,

1
J

. Which report was received and concurred in, and the accompany""
ing resolution was adopted.
Bro. J>, W. SHEPHEARD, from the special committee to whom
was referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address relative to
the communication from the Lodge Olemente Amitie, at Paris, presented the following report:To the M:. W.·. Grand Lodge of California:Yonr Committee, to whom was referred the communication from the Lodge
Clemente Amiti~, at Paris, through its W,•, M:. LEBLANC DE Mmc;:oNNAY, and
the answer thereto by the R:. W.·. Grand Secretary, respectfully report that
they have examined the same with much pleasure. They sincerely approve the
truly Masonic sentiments expresijed in the ftr!t portion of the said communication and are gratified at the honor conferred on two of the members of this
Gra~d Lodge, the M:. W.·. Past Grand Master and the R:. W.·. Grand Secretary, by electing and constituting them honorary members of that very respectable Lodge.
.
Your committee are also happy to learn that that respectable Lodge has
commenced so laudable an undertaking as that described in said communication.
The fostering care of forty-five young orphan girls, and furnishing them clothing, education and employment, is indeed a noble charity; and the desire of that

LlOSJ

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

329

respectable Lodge to perpetuate this institution, as an endowment and asylum
for the daughters of Freemasons, is a most gloriou~ conception. But so far as
regards the request made to us for aid in the accomplishment of this important
and praiseworthy undertaking, your committee feel compelled to ~ay that, consistently with our duties, we cannot advise any appropriation from the funds of
this Grand Lodge for that purpose. We are just beginning to collect a fund
for the purpose of erecting a Masonic Hall-the Grand Lodge of California being to this day dependent on the courtesy of the subordinate Lodges of this
city for the use of the Hall it now occupies-and our funds are not in a condition to respond to the request of our esteemed brethren of the W:. Lodge
Clemente Amiti~.
Your committee, however, would recommend that the re9.uest- that the
propositions offer~d be iuggested to the various Lodges in thii Jurisdiction- be
complied with ; and in furtherance of this object, they recommend the adoption
of the following resolution:R1J1Jolved, That the letter addressed to the M:. W:. Grand Master of California
by the W:.M:. of the Lodge Clemente AmitU, be printed with the proceedings of
this Grand Lodge.•
All of which is respectfully submitted.
P. W. SHEPHEARD, }
E. E. EYRE,
Oommitttee.
GEORGE W. HOPKINS,

Which report was received and concurred in, and the accompanying resolution was adopted.
Bro. H. IL HARTLEY, from the special committee to whom was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address, relative to correspondence with the Grand Orient of France, presented the f<1llowing
report:To the M:. W.·. Grand Lodge of California:~
Your Committee, to whom waR referred that portion of the Address of the
M. •• W. •• Grand Master in reference to the correspondence between the Grand
Orient of France and the Grand Master of Masons in this State, upon the
Hubject of the interchange of Representatives between the two Grand Bodies,
beg leave to report that they view with much pleasure the action of' the Grand
Orient of France, as expressed through its Grantl Master, Prince LUCIEN MURAT,
upon the proposed appointment of a Representative of this Grand Lodge near
the Grand Orient of Prance ; as such an interchange of Repre.sentatives cannot
fail to cement the two Grand Bodies in the closest union, to create the mO!it
perfect fraternization, and to promote that cordiality of sentiment and feeling
which is ~o eminently characteristic of our Order.
The Grand Orient of France, in proposin1r this system of Representatives, has
afforded another convincing proof' of' its zeal for the advancement and development of the spirit and genius of our Order, it having also been the first to
propose and carry into effect a plan for the assembling of 11 Universal Masonic
Congress, the first whereof convened in Paris, in 1855, and' was attended by a
large body of representatives from different parts of the world. We deem the
interest displayed by the Grand Orient of France on all Masonic subjects, highly
to be commended, and as affording a gratifying proof of the flourishing condition
or the Order in that Empire. The action of the Grand Master of Masons in
this State, in promptly replying to the suggestion of the Grand Master of France,
meets with our fullest approbation ; and we trust that the system now so haprily
initiated, may prove a mutual source of pleasure and fraternal aid to both Grand
Bodies. Entertaining these sentiments, we submit the following resolution:•The Jetter referred to will be found appended to the journal ofp,roceedings. A. G• .A.., Gr.&£.

[109]

\

330

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[Mau,

Re:wlved, That the Grand Lodge of California views with much pleasure the
prospect of the establishment of a permanent interchange of Representatives
between this Grand Body and the Grand Orient of France; and that the 11ction
of the Grand Master of Masons in this State on that subject meets the full approval of this Grand Lodge.
All of whieh is respectfully submitted.
HENRY HARE HARTLEY,}
C. A. HATHWELL,
Oommittee.
R. c. GASKILL,

Which report was received and concurred in, and th9 accompanying
resolution was adopted.
Bro. "WM. H. HILL, from the special committee to whom was referred the memorial of Bro. WM. GROVE DEAL, pi;esented the following report : -.
To the M:. W." Grand Lodge of l'alifomia :Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition of Bro. WM. GnovE D1>:u.,
for relief, respectfully report that they have given the same such attention and
examination as was in their power.
The facts stated in the petition have been substantiated to the perfect satisfaction of your committee, and they are nnanimous in the opinion that Bro.
DEAL should be in some way reimbursed for the large outlays to which he was
subjected in the discharge of the duties specified in his petition. We deem it an
appeal to the justice, rather than to the charity of Masons, and our only embarrassment has been as to the kind and amount of effective relief to be granted.
We have concluded to recommend the plan embodied in the resolutions accompanyin~ this report, and we submit the same without further argument. The relief proposed, if the plan be successfully carried out, will be effectual, and all
that Bro. DJCAL desiresi and we trust that its justice and feasibility will be appllrent
to all. The security ror the loan of $1000 proi;iosed, we believe to be ample, and
will insure a reimbursement at an early day; Justice, long delayed, will be done
to a worthy brother; and the ~'raternity will receive an ample reward in the educational ad vantages tnus secured to a number of the sons and daughters of Master
Masons within our jurisdiction.
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge agrees to take ten scholarships, of $10Q
each, in the "Alameda Collegiate Institute," of which Bro. WM. GROVE D!iAt rs
Principal ; and that, upon the presentation of such ten scholarships by Bro.
DEA.I, to the Grand Secretary, the said Grand Secretar;r is hereby authorized and
directed to draw his warvant on the Grand Treasurer m favor ot' eaid brother for
the sum of $1000.
Reaolved, That the Grand Secretarx be authorized and directed tQ make 1m
appeal to the subordinate Lodges within this jurisdiction, to raise the sum of
$3000, for thirty scholarships in said "Alameda Collegiate Institute;" and that
out of the first moneys paid into his hands on account of said scholarships, he
shall refund to the Grand Treasurer the $1000 advanced by this Grand Lodge
to Bro. DEAL, as authorilied in the foregoing resolution.
Resolved, That upon the presentation of each scholarship other tllan the ten
provided for in the first of these resolutions, and the receipt of the money therefor by the Grand Secretary, he is authorized and directed to pay the Hums so
received to s11id Bro. DEAr.; and is hereby instructed to hold the said thirty
scholarships in trust for the use of any Lodge or Mason within this jurisdiction
tha~ may choose to avail itself or himself of the s:i.mc.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
WM. H. HILL,
}
H. U. JEFNINGS,
Committee.
ISAAC M. WALTER,

[110]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

331

Which report was received and laid on the table.
Bro. E. H. VAN DECAR offered the following resolution : Resolved. That any surplus of the moneys paid into the treasury of the Grand
Lodge by Iowa llill Lodge, No. 63, and Wisconsin llill Lodge, .No. 74 upon the
surrender of their Charters, which shall remain after payment of all dues to the
Grand Lodge, be and is ~reby donated to Ionic Lodge, No.-.

Which resolution was referred to the Committee on Finance and
Acco~nts.

Bro. J. ISAACS presented the following proposed amendment to
the Constitution:We propose to amend Section 11.. of Article Ill., of the Constitution, by striking
out the word "Sacramento," anc1 inserting instead thereof the word " San
Francisco."
GILBERT LANPHIER, Rep. of Owen Lodge, No. 108 ;
JONATHAN GREEN, l
D. n. KITTS,
f Reps. of St. Johns' Lodge, No. 37;
A. P. McCARToN, Rep.of North Star Lodge, No. 91.

Which proposed amendment was laid on the table.
Bro. CH.Al!!. MARSH offered the following resolution:Ruolved, That three hundred copies of the proceedings of this Grand Lodge
for the years 1857 and 1858, be bound in the same manner as the two volumes
already bound, and be offered for sale to the Lodges and Masons of this jurisdiction.

Which resolution was aaopted.
, Bro. JAMES L. ENGLISH, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report : 1b the M:. W. '. Grand Lodge qf California:-

Your Committee, to whom was referred the appeal in the matter of the
suspension of D. HARDY, by Mountain Forest Lodge, No. 75, have had the same
unde: considerati?n, and find. the proceedings regular and the evidence amply
Muffic1ent to sustnm the verdict and sentence of the Lodl!'e· Your committee
therefore recommend the adoption of the followinp; resolution :ReBOlved, That the suspension of' D. HARDY, by Mountain Forest Lodge, No. 71i,
be, and the same is hereby confirmed.
All of whioh is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH, }
CHARLES RilSH'
L. BATES,
Ocmmittee.
A. L. MORRISON,
E. W. ROBERTS,

Which report was received and concurred in, and the accompanying resolution was adopted.
Bro. JAMES r.. ENGLISH, from the same committee, also presented
the following report : To the M.·. W.·. Grand Lodge of California;Your Committee, to whom were referred the papers in the matter of the committee heretofore appointed to procure subscriptions for a stone for the National

[111]

332

[May,

JOURNAL or PROCEEDINGS.

Washington Monument, have had the same under consideration. Rumors have
reached you~ committee that other sums, not mentioned in the papers, were paid
t~ the committee ; that Grass Valley Lodge and other Lodges have contributed
d1fferen.t amoun~s. B.ut. the Co1;11mittee O?- Griev~nces, being a committee of appeals, whose busmess 1t 1s to review the trials had m the subordinate Lodges is not
the proper one to Investigate fl:nd report upon this matter. They therefore ~eturn
the papers to the Grand Lodge, and recommend that they be referred to a
special committee.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH,
CHARLES RAISH 1
L. BATES,
Oammittce.
A. L . MORRISON;
E. W. ROBERTS,
J

l

Which report was received and concurred in, and the Grand
Master named the following brethren .as such special committee On the affairs of tlie Washington Monument { B~?· E. II. Van Decar,
Committee.
" S. W. Langton,
H. N. Alexander.

The Grand Secretary presented a notice of the expulsion of JOSEPH
MAY by Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44, which was referred to the
Committee on Grievances.
Bro. 0. C. WHEELER offered the following preamble and resolution :

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Jn ~rano !obgt.
AFTERNOON SESSION'

Friday, May 14th, A. L. 5858.

.
The hour for the special order - the election of Grand Officers -

having now arrived, the Grand Master briefly addressed the Grand
Lodge in term!! expressive of his grateful appreciation of the high
honor which one year ago had been conferred upon him--of his hearty
thanks for the constant kindness and zealous support which he had received from the brethren during his term of office-of his justly proud
satisfaction at the entire approval which had been given to all his of.
ficial acts - and of his sincere desire not to bi;i considered a candidate
for re-election.
Bros. THos. P. HAWLEY and E. H. VAN DECAR were appointed
tellers of the election.
A ballot was had for Grand Master, which resulted in no choice.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2! o'clock this afternoon.

l112l

}

The Grand Lodge was called on at 2! o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
The election of Grand Officers was proceeded with.
The M ... W:·.N. GREENE CURTIS was re-elected Grand Master of
Masons in California;
The R. ·. W." PHILIP W. SHEPHEARD was elected Deputy Grand
Master;
And the R.·. W:·.WILLIAM McCORMICK was elected Senior Grand
Warden.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 7 o'clock this evening.

Whereiu, an affiictive Providence has deprived our esteemed Bro. M. M.
MooRE of his sight, while in indigent circumstances, with a' large family depend·
ent upon him for support j and Whereas, Bro. MooRE comes to us " well recommended," and is desirous or returning to his family, in Lancaster, P a.,
Re8olvtd, That there be now afforded to the brethren present an opportunity
for the exercise of our great Masonic virtue-CHARITY.

Which resolution was adopted, and a collection was forthwith
taken up in the Grand Lodge, for Bro. MOORE, amounting to $225.

833

Jn ~ra.nb Jtobgt.
E VENING SESSION,

}

Friday, May 14th, A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 7 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
The election of Grand Officers was again proc;,.ded with.
The R.·. W.·.JAMES W. BICKNELL was elected Junior Grand
Warden;
The R.·. W. ·.ADDISON MARTIN was re-elected Grand Treasurer;
And the R.-. W:·.ALEx. G. ABELL was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The following named brethren were unanimously elected Trustees
of the Masonic Hall Fund for the ensuing year : Bro. JoHN F. M0Rs11, of. .. . Tehama Lodge, No. 2 . . . . Sacramento;
" JAMES L. ENGLISH, of Sacramento "
" 40 . •. ,Sacramento ;
" RECTOR E. CoLE, of.. . California "
" 1. ... 8an Franoisco.

On motion of Bro. E. W. ROBERTS, it was
Ordered, That the work of this Grand Lodge be exemplifi!ld at 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.

15

(113]

834

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

The Grand Secretary presented the following papers : An appeal of H. BLAIR from the action of Nebraska Lodge, No.
71, by which he was suspended from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry;
. An appeal of PETER BRoss from the action of the same Lodge, by
which he was expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry;
and
A transcript of the proceedings of Olay J~odge, No. 101, by which

J. A. SHUBERT was suspended from all the rights and privileges of

,

Masonry; and his appeal therefrom:
.All which were referred to the Committee on Grievances.
The Grand Treasurer presented certain papers relative to the financial affairs of the late Lebanon Lodge, No. 49 i which were referred to
the Committee on Finance and .Accounts.
The Grand Secretary presented an appeal of Bro. J. R. ATKINS
from certain action of Sacramento Lodge, No. 40 i which, on motion
of Bro. E. E. EYRE, was referred to a special committee of three.

T~e Grand Master named .the following brethren as such special
0 ommittee-

Bro. Charles Marsh,
" Thomas P. Hawley,
" E.W. Roberts.
pri motion of Bro. WM. H. HILL, it was

On the appeal of Bro. J. R. Atkins............

{

Ordtrtd, That the Installation of tha Grand Officers take place at 2 o'clock
·
to-morrow afternoon.

The Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock to-morrow
morning.

1858.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

335

Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the Committee on Credentials, reported the following additional members as present and entitled to seate,
viz: from

Arcata, .......... No. 106, ...... ISAAC CuLBERo, Representative.
FUielity, ......... No. - , . ..... S. SoL01110Ns, Junior Warden .
Which report was received . and concurred in, and the brethren
therein named were admitted to seats.
Bro. J . .A. RAYMOND, from the Committee .on Education, presented the following report : 1b the }If,., w. .. Grand Lodge of Oalifornia:Your Committee on Education beg leo.ve to report that they have had that
subject under consideration, and present the following conclusions:In the present Rtate of the funds of the Grand Lodge, the establishment of a
seminary of learning or a Masonic college, even if desiro.ble, seems quite impracticable; and it is not at a.II clear to your committee that a necessity ex.ists for
any course of education, or any school or system of schools, separate from those
already in existence. They believe that the very wise and ample provisions or
our State government for the free education of all classes of children, whether
under the special care of this Fraternity or not, are quite sufficient to meet all
our wants ; and while this is the case, any attempt on our part to compete with
such system, or any course which looks like a desire on the part of Ma~oory to
be exclusive in its educational plans, will not be likely to commend our Order
to the favor of the public, nor give the subjects of our charge any desirable
distinction. Your commltt.ee are of opinion that the ordinary Masonic attention
to the education· of each individual case, as it may arise1 in the common schools
provided for the people, without attempting the erection of a new school, or
identifying ourselves with any tio.rticular one now in existence, will accompli@h
for the present the full measure of our duty, while it may save us from much
unmerited censure and unnecessary trouble.
While your committee arc fully convinced of the adaptation of the above
principles to the present circumstances, we would by no mcan8 intimate that the
time mo.y not come when the donation of land so generously tendered by a
brother for the erection of a university under the charge of the Fraternity, may
be rendered available and be made to accompllsh the full measure of good anticipated by the donor.
All of which is respectfully submitt~d.
Jom; A. ToTT,
J, A. RAYMOND, } Ocnnmittee.
DARWIN CHASE,

Which report was received and concurred in.

w.

Jn <!5ranh Eohgc.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Saturday, May 15th, .A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, A. M. 1 the Grand

Master presiding.

After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the seBSions of
yesterday were read and approved.

[1141

On motion of Bro.
H. HILL, the report of the special committee upon the memorial of Bro., WM. GROVE DEAL, was taken from
the table and concurred in, nnd the resolutions accompanying it were
adopted.
Bro. HENRY F. WILLIAMS, from the Committee on By-Laws, presented the following report : To the M." W. ·.Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom were referred the By-Laws of the Subordinate
Lodges, have bad the same under consideration, and beg leave to report that
[115)

336

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROOEEDINGS.

they have examined the proposed amendments a~ked for by several of the chartered Lodges, and recommend their approval as follows, to wit. :Western Star Lodge, No. 2.-Art. 8., Sec. 1. To be so amended as to fix the
fees for the degrees at twenty, twenty-five, and thirty-five dollars respectively,
and the fee for affiliation at five dollars.
Art. 9, Sec. 1. To be so amended as to fix the monthly dues at fifty cents.
Michigan Oity Lodge, No. 47.-Art. 3, Sec. 1. To be so amended as to read as
follows : " The stated meetings of this Lodge shall be held on the Saturday of or
next preceding the full moon in each month.''
St. Jam1J1J Lodge, No. 54.-Art. 3, Sec. 1. To be so amended as to read as
follows: " The stated meetings of this Lodge shall be held on the second Friday
in each month."
Santa Rosa Lodge. No. 57.-Art. 3, Sec. 1. To be so amended as to read as
follows : " The stated meetings of this Lodge shall be held on the Saturday e\·ening next preceding the full moon in each month."
Owen Lodge, No. 108.-Art. 9, Sec. 1. To be so ameuded as to change the
quarterly dues from five to three dollars.
Your committee have also examined the By-Laws presented from the several
Lndites working under dispensation-viz. : FideUty. Hermann, Clinton, Progrua,
Alamo, La Fayette, VaUecito, Sotoyomi, Ionic, Table Mountain and Viaalia-a.nd reonrninP.nd their approval, with the exception of those presented by the le.st named
LoJge, which are objectionable in many features.
.
To so.id Lodge your committee would recommend the Uniform Code, which
ho.s been adopted almost universally by the Lodges under this jurisdiction.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
II. F. WILLiillS,}
E. W. POTTER,
Committee.
J. T. H!GBB:B:,
Which report was received and concurred in.
The report and resolution of the Committee on Masonic Jurispru·
dence, relative to the claim of Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, upon
Minnesota Lodge, No. 67, was taken from the table, and the proviso
offered yesterday by Bro. J. L. J<~NGLISH, was adopted. On motion of
Bro. R. B. MoYJ!:s, the resolution was further amended, so as to read
as follows : " Reaolved, That Minneaota Lodge, No. 67, is hereby required to pay over to
Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, all dues paid into its treasury by Bro. JOBYE.
UooPER, subsequent to the 13th day of May, 1856 ; provided, that the amount
thereof shall not exceed the amount of dues standing against said brother upon
t.hc books of Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52, at the time his mime was stricken
from the roll."
When the resolution, as thus amended, was adopted.
Bro. P. W. SHEPHEARD, from the Committee on Work, presented
the following report : To the M.-. W:. Grand Lodgt of California :Your Committee on Work beg leave to report, that 'they have met, and
finding no business referred to them, pray to be discharged.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
ISAAC D!VIB,

E. BOGARDUS,
P. W. SHt:PHURD,
WM. McKEAN,

W.G. WEST.

(1161

}

Committee.

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALJFORNJA.

337

Which report was received and concurred in, and the committee
was discharged.
The hour for the special order of the day-the exemplification of
the work-having arrived, on motion of Bro. L. CoHN. the same was
postponed until 7 o'clock this evening.
The report of the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, relative to
the differences between Washington and Concord Lodges, was taken
. from the table and concurred in, and the resolution accompanying it
was adopted.
The report of the same committee, upon the proposed amendment
of the Regulation for Trials, was taken from the table and con.curred
in, and the resulution accompanying it was adopted.
Bro. J. E. STEVENS offered the following resolution :
Resolved, That so much of the action of this Grand Lodge, at its last Annual
Communication, concurring in the report of the Committee on By-Laws of
Lodges, as instructs St. James Lodge, No. 54, Enterprise Lodge, No. 70, and Mount
Zion and St. Jfark'a Lodges, U. D., to adopt the uniform code of By·Le.ws, be,
and the same is hereby rescinded.
Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. H. J. BRADLEY offered the following preamble and resolution:Whereas, one GEORGE W. SHARP was expelled by Plumas Lodge, No. 60, in
the winter of 1855, of which expulsion no notice has been sent to the subordinate
Loages,
Ruolved, That the Grand Secretary be instructed to demand of Hid Lodge
the reasons for such neglect.
Which was referred to the Committee on Grievances.
Bro. A. l\IARTlN offered the following resolution:Ruolved, '!'hat permission be given to Nicolaus Lodge;, U. D., to hold Its
meetings at the "Halfway House," (four miles from the town of Nicolaus), until
the completion of its he.II at Nicole.us.

Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. A. MARTIN also offered the following resolution : Reaolved, That any member of a Lodge which has. surrendered its Charter,
who was in good standing at t.he time of such surrender, is entitled to a certiHce.te to that etfect; and that the Grand Secretary be authorized to issue such
certificates.
Which resolution was adopted.
Bro. A. D. RooK offered the following resolution : Reaolved, That the Standing Resolutions of the Grand Lodge be published
with the proceedings of this Communication.

Which resolution was adopted.

(117]

338

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Bro. J. R. ELLIS offered a resolution requiring all n_iembers ?f
Lodges, within this jurisdiction, to file with the Secretar1~s of their
.
· wh'1ch th ey may have .received from
respective
Lodges any d emits
Lodges of which they had form~rly b~en members; which was referred to the Committee on Masomc J ur1sprudence.
Bro. A. D. RocK offered a resolution repro~ating the use of
Masonic emblems on business cards or jewelry ; wh1oh was referred to
the same committee.
B ro. J . L . ENGLISH offered a resolution, instructing the
d' Commitf
tee on Masonic Jurisprudence to inquire into the expe. rnncy o .rel!!Cinding the third aud twenty-second Standing Resolutions; which
was adopted.
Bro. John F. MORSE, from the Committee on Finance and Accounts, presented the follO\ving reports:To the M.'. W:. Grand Lodge of California :.
b the Grand
Your committee, to whom were referred ceri~nf~~r~~re:~!te!tfuct, submit
Treasurer .relative to the assets t°t11{fna~g~seq~efic~ of. difficulties in that Lodge
the following report. It se;ms th . G nd Body its Charter wus arrested, to.
which haye bee~ represente to lB ra . accordin to Masonic requiren;ient.
gether with all its funds, books, pafper.(
&c' ortion
the fixtures and furniture
0 w an
bf these funds, $393 19 were due or 1 8 prop •
lication is made
11
0
of a _hall in which It, with olhJ;fa7~d1te~d~:\;
af~~ ~ of nllo~ag
them, (they
1
111embers
upon the
part
being
most
of of
them
formerome_mi bevrsY of
. Ltbanon Lodge) to inh~it, so to speak,
the object of ma~ing the
the fruits of th~ir own labors m ~b~:i~b::e~e~u~~~:ee.
Your comrmttee would remar • 11
f' th s subordinates which have
Grand Lodge the custodian of ~II the pr~P~~!Yd~sbu:'se~en t of their assets, that
cel\Bed to exist, is to secure sue an equ 11
be saved from censure~in other
the credit ~nd character of t.he Ordfe~
~t!g Lodges. receiving their prope~ty,
0
word~, tbat 1t becomes ~he a~si_gnee b'cb if left unsettled would reflect odmm
Rad paying .oft'. tho~~ Just c aims, w If this be correct, ihen your committee
upon Masomc rntegr1thy anti. hoGor. d I Lodge is satisfied that the accountR and.
would suggest, thai w en 18 ran
d
d that still o. surplus o!
liabilities of an ex~inct Lodge are all ~!~~e11 'G~~ad Lodge, under such cirmoney or property is ret~lned ~ the h.~~urred In setting the precedent or allowcum~to.nces there woul~ ue ho ll~g:r0 ~ recommitted to the use of' those who
ing
~ame,,or
a port101natrng
~ er~to'
engaged In another
1 ' and weho were honorably
bad the
assisted
rn accumu
.
Lodge
in committee
acbie~ing the
Your
wouglrdeatthobjef.cts
ere ore ofec
r o~~~~~~r~h?'~doption of the following

.

f

1

0

1

t:e

resol~!~v~~-Tbat so much of .the assets of Lebanon Lodge as ar~ include~ \~ ~ce
hall~nd fu~niture

of Fidelity Lodge, are hereby donated to e111d Lodg '
cordance with its application.
All of which is respectfully subn;iitted.
JOllN F. MORSE,
.r. B. CA.RTl':R, ~Committee.
J. W. BROWN,
J
H. C. HARRISON,

1

[118J

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OJ!' OALIJ!'ORNIA.

339

Po tht M. ·• W.'.Grand Lodge of California :Your committee, to whom was referred the resolution proposing to donate to
Jonie Lodge, No. -, the surplus of any moneys paid into the treasury of the
Grand Lodge by the late Iowa Hill and Wucomin Hill Lodges, which shall remain
after payment of their dues, respectfully report, thai, inasmuch as Jonie Lodge
is composed chiefly of members of the two extinct Lodges above named, if there
remain no unpaid claims against those two bodies, they recommend the adoption
of the resolution, as follows :Reaolved, That any funds paid into the treasury of the Grand Lodge on ac·
count of Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63, and Wi!comin Hill Lodge, No. 74, since the
surrender of their respective Charters, which shall remain after all the demands
of the Grand Lodge upon those Lodges shall have been satisfied, be and are
hereby donated to Ionic Lodge, No. -.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JouN F. MORSE, }
J . B. CARTER,
Cbm ittu.
J. W. BROWN,
m
H. C. HARIUSON.
Which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolutions
acoompanying them were adopted.

Bro. CHAS. MARSH, from the special committee to whom was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address relative to the
suspension of JOSEPH MAYER, a member of the late Lebanon Lodge,
No. 49, presented a verbal report thereon; and, upon his motion, the
trial of said MAYER was made the special order of business next succeeding the installation of Grand Officers this afternoon.
Bro. W. H. HOWARD offered the following resolution:Resolved, That the existing Constitution be pnblisbed with the proceedings of
ibis Communication.

Which resolution Wa.!1 adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'olock this afternoon.

Jn QOranh !ohge.
AFTERNOON SESBIOK,

}

Saturday, Jlfay I5th1 A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
The Grand Master appointed Bro. H. H. HARTLEY as chairman of
the committee upon the donation of lands by Bro. A. M. WINN, in
his own stead.
This being the hour appointed for the installation of the Grand
Officers, on motion of Bro. CHAS. MARSH, that ceremony was postponed until 7 o'clock this evening.
The special order next succeeding, being the trial of JOSEPH MAYER, a member of the late Lebanon Lodge, No. 49, was then taken up.

[119]

.tOURNAL or PROOEED!NGS.

340

[May,

1858.)

341

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

The Grand Master stated that charges of a character too gross to
be mentioned in the publications of the Grand Lodge, had been preforred against said MAYER in Lebanon I,.odge, and that, though the
evidence adcl~oed upon the trial abundantly proved their truth, the
Lodge had refused to convict him; he had therefore arrested the
Charter of that Lodge, and summoned the accused to appear for trial

The Grand Master named the following brethren
committee _
as such special

a~ this Communication of the Grand Lodge.
The record of the proceedings of Lebanon Lodge iii his case was

Resolved, That the officers of Petaluma L 0 d
N 77
instructed to inquire into the case of C
ge, H o. ,0 be and are hereby
Nbo
from all the
9
0
the
the published
r

then read, and the accused, having failed to present himself, or attempt
any defen~e, he was, by ballot, unanimously declared guilty of gros.~
immcita.lity and unmasonie conduct; and was, in like manner, unanimously declared to be expelled from all the rights and privileges of
Masonry.
Bro. R. L. DAVIS offered the following resolution : Ruolved, That the thanks of this Grand Lodge be and are hereby tendered to
Bro. R10HIBD DALE, for his kindness in providing an organ for its use during the
preaent Communication.
Which resolution was adopted, and the Grand Secretary was instructed to furnish a copy thereof to Bro. DALE.
The Grand Secretary presented the following report;LIST OF CONTRIBUTIONS f.
2b the JiUnd /<YI' procuring a Tutimonial to Past Grand Mast.er, Wm. R. H<llDard.
1857.
Amount brougbtforward, $490 75
June 10. Gaden Gcae, No. S0 ... $50 00 Sepi. 21. Ruward, .. No. 96 .•. 200 00
11. Cali,fMnia,
"
1. . . 50 00
" 25. EWm<Uio,
"
2,6. . • 21 00
" 17. Rising SW,
" 83 ... 18 00
" 29. Gold HDJ,,
"
32... 8 00
" 17. Oaymw.
" 93 .. . 40 00 Oct. 8. Forbutown,
u
50 ... 16 00
July 2. Bvtte,
" SS . .. 12 50 .Nov. 4. Forut,
" 66 ... 26 50
"
2. Minnaota,
" 67 ... 40 00
" 20 . .Amador,
" 65.... 14 00
" 14. Roaia Bar,
" 89 ... 30 00
'' SO. Hawaiian,
" 21 ... 15 00
" 17. Yuba,
" S9 ... 20 oo Dec. 29. Eden,
" :t13 ... 14 00
" 54 ... 12 00
1858.
" 17. St. Ja,mu,
7 ... 43 00
A.ng. 1. Bro. L. Werlhamer, ...•. 10 00 Jan. 9. San Pranciaco" 22 ... 1400
'" 16. Mt. Jefferson, No. 107 ... 14 25
·" 12. Occidental,
" 58 ... 10 50
" 15. St. John'•,
" 37. . . 41 00 ~'.oh 3. Union,
"
9 ... 18 00
" 24. Owen,
" 108 ... 60 00
" 18. Maryaville,
"11 10 . . . 158 00
Sept. 3. Lebanon,
" 49. . . 88 00 Ma7 15. San Joa~,
~ 15. Mountain F<Yl'e$1 75 ... 3300
Amount carried forward, $490 75
Total amount received by the Grand Secretary. , ........ ... ,. $1,081 75
"

All of which has, with the approbation of the Grand Officers, been disposed
of for the benefit of Past Grand :Master HowA.110, in accordance with the resolutions adopted at the last Annual Communication,
.AI.Ex. G • .ADELL, Grand Secretary.
Which report was received, and on motion of the Grand Secretary,
was referred to a special committee for examination.
~120]

On

t 'b t ·
fl
{Bro. J. W. Bicknell
von ri u ions or P.-.G.-.M.'. Hoioard,
" Uriah Edwards'
" John R. ElliR. '
n

Bro. J. W. BROWN offered the following resolution:-

t~~g:,

~as :~rlled

righ~s"=~~spriv°U:ge~ 0( ~!~1!~~or_:~

~r~nJ'Lod:e of~:::iks!~:aro~t~~P;::: i~~5~.

procee~lngs

Which resolution was adopted.
~ro'. F.

H. HARMON offered a resolution requiring that with all

ap~hcation for ~ffiliation, shall be presented demits from the Lodges of

which the ap~heants were lo.st members, or some good reason for failin
g
so to do; which was referred to the Committee on MnFJonie J .
dence.
ur1spruBro. J. W. BROWN offered the following resolution:Resolved, That the committee to whom h be
.
the Constitution of this Grand Lodge be in~~ruc~ndretco~rz::t\ed the revision ot
the subject of paying to one dele ate f
e ~ a e nto consideration
compen~tion for attendance at tb~Ann~i:fc:~':nsu~r~!nat? Lc:tp;e, a reasonable
appear Just .and equitable, to propose an incre~n~~ !~ns, an 'if thfe rnme shall
e revenue o the Grand
Lodge sufllc1ent for that purpose.
Which resolution was adopted.
.~ro. ~· O. CLAYTON offered a resolution of inquiry concerning the
position m Masonry occupied by those whose names have been stricken
fromh the roll~ of Lodges for non-payment of dues; which was referred
tot e Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.

J:

L. ENGLISH, from the Committee on Grievances presented
Bro.
the followmg reports:·
'
1b the M. •• W.·. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the a
1 fJ
Il!'atter .of bis suspension by Ol,ay Lodge No lOlpbea ob d. tAb. SHUllERT, in the
s1derat1on The reco d
t6 d ' ·
' ave a
e same under con
accused w~s found ~lty"':if~i~~r 0 ( ~t~v~~ it somewiat doubtfu.l 'Yhetber th~
that ~e was found guilty and suspended upo;~~:s pre ~rre:, but 1\1s supposed
that charge.being one of no
bu:
8
by
t sufllylently
therefore recommend the adoption of the following resola~..
our committee
Reaolved That J A S
b
.
u ion :and privileges of M~o~ryBUBERT e and 18 hereby restored to all the rights .
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAHES L. ENGLISH }
L. BATES,
'
E. W. ROBERTS
Cbmmittee,
CaA.RJ,Es RAisir',
'

~~~~,e~fr:n~~~nd

seriS:~~~ba~a~[e~~·

bavln~ stoodds~~~n~ue8J1~?~~~ntb~esi~~h ~~; !~eJ~~:s1ed

16

[121]

~:!r~Y~n

puni.she~

!342

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[Ma!J

1b the ltf. •• W.·. Grand Lodge of Cal,ifwnia :Your Committee, to whom was referred the petition of D. N. ALLAN, asking
that a new trial may be ordered in the case in which he was expelled by lowa
Hill Lodge, No. 63, on the twelfth day of August, 1856, and which sentence was
confirmed by the Grand Lodge at its last Annual Communication, have had the
same under consideration. Your committee have not been able to procure the
papers in the case for examination, but if the representation of facts connected
with the trial which has been made to them be true, they have no hesitation in
~aying that they would recommend that a new trial be ordered. That the matter may receive the proper attention, your committee recommend the adoption
of the following resolution :.Resolvf.11, That the M.·. W.·. Grand Master be authorized to hear the applica.tion of D. N. ALLAN for a new trial in the case in which he was expelled by Iawa
Hill Lodge, No. 63, and to order such new trial of the case in such Lodge as he
may select, should he deem it right and just to grant the same.
·
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH, }
•
.
L. BATES,
E. w. ROBERTS,
Committee.
CHARLES RAISH,
To the M.-. W.·. Grand Lodge of Otllifornia:Your Committee, to whom was referred the appeal of CHARLES B. UBL,
in the matter of his suspension by We&ern Star Lodge, No. 2, have had the same
under consideration. The error complained of is that hearsay evidence was
received. The evidence upon which the verdict was rendered not having been
sent up with the papers, we have no means of ascertaining whether the alleged
error is true, or whether there was sufficient testimony independent of any hearsay evidence, to sustain the verdict. The accused, in taking the appeal, did all
that he was required to do. It wus the duty of the Lodge to have sent up the
evid~nce. That having been neglected, the accused should not be made to suffer
or be deprived of his rights by having his sentence confirmed without a review
of the proceedings. As that cannot be had at this session of the Grand Lodge,
we deem it better to reverse the sentence and send the case back for a new trial.
We therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:Resolved, That the suspension of CHARLES B. UHL, be and the same iR hereby
reversed and set aside, and that the case be remanded for a new trial.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. Eimr.1sH, }
L. BATES,
l1 ~·t
E. W. ROBERTS,
om,.,.. ee.
CHARLES RAISH,

All which reports were received and concurred in, and the resolutions ac()ompanying them were adopted.
Bro. P. W. SHEPHEARD, from the special committee to whom was
referred the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall Fund, presel\,ted
the following report : To 'the M.·. W.·. Grand Lodge qf Calif<>rnia:Your Committee, to whom was referred the report of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall Fund, respectfully report that they have examined the securities and
papers therewith presented, and recommend that the ~ction of the Trustees be
fully approved.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
P. W.SHEPHEARD, }
A. D. RocK,
Committee.
L. REYNOLDS,
(122]

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

343

Which report was r~ceived and concurred in.
Hro. A. MARTIN, from the special committee to whom was referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address relative to the communication from the Grand Lodge of Virginia, in regard to the purchase of Mount Vernon, preRented the following report : To the M. •. W.·. Grand Lodge of California :-'Your Committee, to whom was referred the Circular of the Grand Lodge of
Virginia, relative to the purchase of Mount Vernon, have had the same under
consideration, and beg leave to report as follows :That, as the object sought for is one which must commend itself to the
heart of every Mason, they think they but speak the true sentiments of all
those within this jurisdiction, when they say that each will claim the privilege
of contributing his mite to an object so worthy. They therefore take pleasure
in submitting the following resolution :Reaolved, That this Gmnd Lodge will most cheerfully co-operate wiih the
Grand Lodge of Virginia in the purchase of Mount Vernon, and will take action
to raise its proportion of the money necessary, as soon as the other Grand Lodges
of the United States have signified their intention to do likewise.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
A. MARTIN,
}
H. F. WILLIAMS, Committee.
H. A. HIGLEY,

Which report was received and concurred in, and the accompanying resolution was adopted.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 7 o'clock this evening.

ln @ranb !oltgc.
EVENING SESSION,

}

Saturday, May 15th, A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 7 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.
Bro. CHAS. MARSH, from the special committee to whom was referred the memorial of Bro. J. R. ATKINS, presented the following
report:To the M.·. W. ·• <Jrand Lodge of California .Your Committee, to whom was referred the appeal of Bro. JOHN R. ATKINS
from the action of Sacramento Lodge, No. 40, relative to !a dismissal of certain
charges preferred by him against a member of said Lodge, have had the same
under consideration, and respectfully report that they find the facts to be Bl!
follows:[123]

S44

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[May,

Sacramento Lodge, No. 40, entertained the charges preferred by the complainant, and a trial was had according to the regulations of this Grand Lodge,
which resulted in the acquittal of tbe brother against whom the charges were
preferred. Your committee, after a careful examination, can find no informality
in the trial of said charges, which, in their opinion, is sufficient to justify
interference on the part of the Grand Lodge ; and they therefore ask to be
discharged from the further consideration of the subject.
·
All of which is respectfully submitted.
CHAS. MARSH,
}
THOMAS P. HAWJ.EY, Committee.
E. W. ROBERTS.

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. J. W. BICKNELL, from the special committee to whom was referred the report of the Grand Secretary relative to contributions for
a testimoi:iial to Past Grand Master WM. H. HOWARD, presented the
following report : - ·
To the M.-. W.-. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the report of the Grand Secretary,
relative to the contributions for a testimonial to Past Grand Master W. H.
How ARD, beg leave to report, that they find, upon examination, that the sum of
one thousand and eighty-one dollars and seventy-five cents has been received
by the Grand Secretary ; that the sum of four hundred dollars of said amount
has been expended in the purchase of a gold watch, as a suitable testimonial
to be presented to our esteemed Past Grand Master ; and that the remainder
has been paid over to him. They would, therefore, recommend that the above
action be approved, and that the testimonial procured be presented to Past
Grand Master HowARD in open Grand Lodge, by the M:. W:. Grand Master,
during its present Communication.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAS. w. BJCDELL,}
u RUH EDwARDS, Cbmmittee.
J. R. ELLIS,

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. J. L. ENGLISH, from the Committee on Grievances, presented
the following report : To the M. '. W.-. Grand Lodge qf California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution offered by Bro. H. J.
BRADLEY, concerning the expulsion of GEORGE W. SHARP, b;v.: Pluma.a Lodge, No.
60, in the winter of 1855, have had the same under consideration, and recommend the adoption of the following resolutions:Re1.olved, That Plumas Lodge, No. 60, be and is hereby required to notify
immediately" the various Lodges within this jurisdiction, of the expulsion of
GEORGE W. SHARP, by said Lod~e, and to send up to the Grand Lodge a certified
copy of the proceedings and evidence in the case of the trial of said GEORGE W.
SHARP.
.
Re-solved, That the Grand Secretary be and is hereby instructed to transmit a
copy of the foregoing resolution, under the seal of the Grand Lodge, to Plumaa
Lodge, No. 60, immediately.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH, }
E. w. ROBERTS,
.
CHARLES RAISH,
Cbmmittee.
L. BATES,

[124]

1858.J

345

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolutions
accompanying it were adopted.
On motion of Bro. L. C. OWEN, Past Grand Master WM. H.
How ARD was invited to install the Grand officers for the coming
year.
The Grand Master elect announced the following appointments for
the ensuing Masonic year, viz. : 0

As Grand Chaplain ....... Bro. WM. H. HILL ..... of Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.
" Grand Orator . . . . . . . . " JAs. L. ENGLISH ... of Sacramento
"
" 40.
" Asst. Grand Secretary. " L. C. OWEN ...... of Golden Gate
"
" 30.
" Grand Marshal. ...... " THos. P. HAWLEY.of Nevada
"
" 16.
" Grand Standard Bearer " JOHN M. TINGLEY.. of St. Loui8
"
" 86.
" Grand Sword Bearer.. " Jsuc N. BARNES .. of El Dorado
"
" 26.
" Grand Bible Bearer... " GEORGE C. YouNT. of Oa.ymus
"
" 93.
" Senior Grand Deacon. . " WM. McKEAN ..... of .Mount Zion
"
" 114.
".JuniorGrnndDeacon .. " E.H. VANDECAR.ofionic
"
"121.
"
S
l
" Gu.BERT LANPHIER.of Owen
"
" 108.
Grand tewards f · · · ·
LEWIS REYNOLDS •. of Mountain Shade"
" 18.
" Grand Organist.:..... " HENRY L. DAVIS .. of Mount Moriah "
" 44.
" Grand Pursuivant. . . . . " N. DENNIS WITT .. of Table. Mountain "
" 124.
" Grand Tyler. . . . . . . . . . " O. D. CHAFE~ • .•• of Tehama
'•
"
3.
Past Grand Master WM. H. HowARD then installed the several
elected and appointed officers of the Grand J.. odge in their respective
stations and places.
On motion of' Bro. A. G. ABELL, the R." W." ISAAC DAVIS, Past
Grand Lecturer was invited to exemplify the work, whereupon he
delivered the lecture in the third degree.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until Monday, the seventeenth instant, at IO o'clock, A. M.

in ~ranb !obgc.
MORNING SESSION,

}

Monday, May 17th, A. L. 5858.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, A M., the Grand
Master presiding.
After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the minutes of the sessions of
Saturday were read and approved.

L1251

S46

JOURNAL OF PROOBEDINGS.

[Ma11,

The Committee on Credentials, having no further business, was
discharged.
Bro. WM. H. HowARD, from the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, presented the following reports : To the M." W." Grand Lodge of Califurnia :Your Committee, to whom was referred a. resolution suggestiug the repeal
of Standing Resolution No. 3, beg leave to report that they do not recommend
the repeal of said resolution, as they deem it both necessary f!-nd proper th!l't
the proceedings of the Grand Lodge, as well as all documents issued under its
authority, and directed to its subordinates, should be read in open Lodge. They
do recommend, however, that said rcsolntion be amended so as to read as
follows:Ruolved, That every subordinate Lodge, under the jurisdiction of this Grand
Lodge, be required to h11;ve read in open Lodge, under the dir~ction of, the
Master, and within the period of three months from the time of then· reception,
the printed proceedings of the Grand Lodge ; and that all other documents
issued under its authority and directed to its subordinates, be read at the next
stated meeting after their reception.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
W. lI. HowAaD, Chairman.
1b the JI.:. W. ·.Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee, to whom was referred a resolution providing for the amendiug of Standing Resolution No. 34, so as" to include and discourage the use of
Masonic emblellljl on business cards and jewelry," having given the subject tlue
consideration, beg leave to report that they would not recommend any further
legislation in reference to that subject ; the resolution proposed to be a.mended
being in their opinion. sufficiently expressive of the unqualified disapprove.I by
this Grand Lodge of such exhibitions. Your committee are moreover of opinion
that the day is not far distant when the evil complained of will, in all probability correct itself as the general sentiment of the Craft is becoming more and
mo're adverse to ~uch displays, and as it is believed thnt they even now Injure
the exhibitor far more than they benefit him.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
w. H.. HowARD, Uhairman.

1b the M:. W." Grand Lodge of Californiu: "'
Your Committee to whom was referred two resoluticns, relative to the
deposit of demits by those who have already o.ffiliated, or who may herearter
desire to affiliate with Lodges in this State, beg leave to report, that the obJect
of the resolutions seems to be to prevent a recurrence of difficulties between
Lodges in reference to membership ; nnd altho~gh it is, to some ex~ent, provided for in a resolution appended to a former report of. your ~omm1ttee, yet,
believing that it is the duty of n brother, when he o.tfiliates ')V~th a Lodge, to
deposit therein his certificate of withdrawal from the Lodge of which he was last
u. member, or give satisfact?ry reasons for not being in possesslo~ of one, they
submit the following resolut1011 : Resolved That hereafter no Lodge shall admit a. brother to membership until
he shall he.~e deposited with the Secretary his demit from the Lodge of which
he was last a member, or shall have presented in writing, to be filed by the
Secretary, good and sufficient reasons for not being enabled so to do.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
W. H. HOWARD, Chairman.

All which reports were received and concurred in, and the accompanying resolutions were adopted. .
L120J

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

34'7

Bro. WM. H. HOWARD, from the same committee, also presented
the following report : Jb the M:. W." GrtJnd Lodge of CaUf'ornia:Your Committee, to whom was referred a resolution suggesting the repeal
of Standing Resolution No. 22, having given the matter due consideration, beg
leave to report that they do not see any impropriety in a Mason belonging to
a subordinate Lodge in o.nother jurisdiction as well as in this, " provided he be
in good standing In his original Lodge, and pays his dues regularly in both."
There is no general law of the Craft which would render such membership im·
proper, and it must, th~refore , be viewed in the light of its expediency a.lone ;
and, as your committee are unable to point to an instance where difficulties have
arisen in connexion with such membership, which were not attributable to other
ca.uses, they would recommend that Standing Resolution, No. 22, be left in its
present shape.
•
All of which is respectfully submitted.
W. H. HowARD, Chairman.

Which report was received, and the subject of which it treats was
referred to the special committee appointed to revise the Standing
Resolutions.
Bro. J. L. ENGLil!!H, from the Committee on Grievances, presented
the following report ;1b tM M:. W,'. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee, to whom was -referred the notices of the expulPion of
.JoSEPH MAY, by Mount Moriah Lodp;e, No. 44, April twenty-fourth, 1858; of
TEllEll'CE KELLY, by &n Frariciaco Lodge, No. 7, July tenth, 1857; of W. 11.
OLMSTEAD, by Trinity Lodge, No. 27, July thirteenth, 1857; of PHILIP How.m.L,
by Ophir Lodge, No. 33, July third, 1857 ; of J. A. BOWDEN, by lliram Lod~e,
No. 43, April twenty-ninth , 1858 L of CHAS. LASAJ,LE, by Rising Star Lodge, No.
88, Ootober third, 1857 ; and of !'HIUl' McKENNA, by Summit Lodge, No. llll,
September twenty-sixth, 1857, have had the same under consideration. Your
committee have had no opportunity of' examinlug the record of proceedings or
evidence in any of these cases, and cnnnot recommend a confirmation of the
~cntences without such exe.mine.tjon. Your committee think that in all cases of
expulsion, e.s the sentence operates only as e. suspension until conllrmP.d by the
ftre.nd Lodge, a complete transcript of the record of the trial and of the evidence should be sent up to the Grand Lodge, for review, before it can be ·
expected to confirm the sentence. Your committee therefore recommend
that no action be ho.d by the Grand Lodge in the cases named, at this Communication, and tbe.t the respective Lodges be required to send up the necessary
transcripts. Your committee also think that the standing regulation of the
Grand Lodge, relative to trials, should be a.mended in this respect, all(l therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolutions:Ruolved, That the respective Lodges named in this report be and a.re
hereby required to send up to this Grand Lodge e. compilite transcript of the
records of the proceedings and ,evidence in the cases of the severe.I expulsions
reported by them as named above.
.
Resolvtd, That Rule 6, Sec. 1, of the Regulations of the Grand Lodge, relative to trials, be amended by adding thereto the following:-" When the sente!lce
is expulsion, even if no appeal be taken, a complete transcript of the proceedings and evidence shall be sent up to the Grand Lodge."
All of which is respectfully Rubmitted.
J AS. L. ENGLISI!, }
L. BATES,
Committee.
E.W. RoRERTS.

[127]

348

[May,

JOURNAL OF l>ROOEEDINGS.

Which report was received and concurred in, and the resolutions
accompanying it were adopted.
Bro. L. C. OWEN, from the Committee on Returns of Lodges,
presented the following r~port : 1b the M." W. •. Grand Lodge of California :The Committee on R.et~rn~ o! ~odges respectfully report that the returns of
11.ll the Lodges u.nder this Jur1sd1ct10n have been received in time for exam!na- ,
t1on, and that w1~h but two exceptions-- Santa Oruz Lodge, No. 38, and Tezaa
Lodge, No: .46, - they. are made in a neat and creditable manner, few of
them r~qumng correction, and such correction being principally confined to
errors rn the report of dues. These, as corrected by your committee are aR
follows:'
Amount brought forward, $3346 00
California,
No.. 1. . . ... $230 00
No. 49.,....
90 00
Wutern Star,
"
2...... 106 ·00 LehanQTI,
Tehama,
"
3...... 101 00 Jibrbe8town,
" 50. . .. . .
39 00
Benicia,
5. . . . . .
50 00 lUinm.town,
" 51. . . . . .
35 00
52 ..... ,
65 00
San Franci&co, ·"
7.. . ...
96 00 Roughand&ady,"
1\wlumne,
"
8. . . . . .
81 00 St. Jamu,
" 64......
38 00
MaryBViUe,
"
9. . . . . .
68 00 Suisun,
" 55 ...•• ,
68 00
San Joae,
"' 10. . .. ..
87 00 Vol.cano,
" 06. . . . . .
46 00
Yount,
" 12......
47 00 Santa. Roaa,
" 07......
78 00
Nevada,
"
13...... 107 00 Union,
" 58...... '56 00
Temple,
" 14.. ....
27 00 Gravel Range, ·"
59.... ..
70 00
Eureka,
"
16 .•... ,
25 00 Plumaa,
·" 60. . . . . .
57 00
Parfaile Union, "
17. . . . . .
41 00 Live Oak,
" 61......
17 00
Mountain Shade, " 18...... 104 00 Ge-0. Waahington,"
62. . . . ..
67 00
San Joaquin,
" 19......
53 00 Iowa Bill,
"
68, , • , , ,
40 00
Waahington,
" 20...... 103 00 Natoma,
" 64 ..•.. ,
41 00
Hawaiian,
"
21 . .....
9~ 00 Amador,
" 65...... '29 00
Occidental,
" 22. . . . . . 102 oo Fotut,
" 66...... 115 00
Madison,
" 23. .. ... 108 00 .Minmaota,
" 67. . . . . .
77 00
Maripo&a,
" 24. . . . . .
78 00 M<mting Star,
u
68......
66 00
Georgttwm,
'' 25..... .
76 00 Corinthian,
" 69. . . . . .
58 00
El Dorado,
" 26. . . . . . 104 00 Enterprise,
•' 70......
76 00
Trinity,
" 27. . . . . .
91 00 Nebraska.,
" 71. . . . . .
53 00
lhlumbia,
" 28. . . .. . .
88 00 E. K. Kane,
" 72... . ..
65 00
Diamond,
" 29. . . . . .
41 00 fyro,
" 73......
32 00
Golckn Gate,
" SO...... 152 00 Wiaconain Ilill, "
74...... '19 00
Mokelumne,
" 31. . . . . .
64 00 Mountain FMm, "
76......
84 00
Gold Hill,
"
32. . . . . .
38 00 Bear Mountain, "
76,,, .. ,
29 00
Ophir,
" 33,,....
55 00 Petaluma,
" 77...... 101 00
Sama Clara,
"
S4. . . . . .
38 00 Oalaveraa,
" 78. . . . . .
41 00
San Diego,
35 .•. , . •
41 00 Humboldt,
" 79. . . . . .
23 00
Butte,
" 36. ·•...
20 00 Ion.e,
" 80. . . . . .
40 00
St. John'a,
" 37. . . . . .
57 00 Yolo,
" 81. . . . . .
31 00
&nia Oruz,
" 38. . . . . .
7 4 00 .Mountain,
" 82. . . . . .
4'4 00
Yuba,
"
39. . . . . .
69 00 Riling Star,
" 88 . . . . . .
87 00
Sacramento,
" 40......
56 00 Vuper,
"
84......
40 00
Martinez,
" 41... . . .
65 00 Indian Diggin9B, "
85 ..• , . .
39 00
Los Angela,
" 42 . . . . . .
95 00 St. Louu,
" 86,.....
66 oo
Hiram,
"
43......
86 00 Naval,
H
87. . . . . .
58 00
Mount Moriah, "
159 00 Quitman,
" 88 ..•,. . .
77 00
Orucent,
" 45. . . . . .
43 00 Rose'a Bar,
" 89......
38 00
0
Te:za,,,
" 46. . . . . .
46 00 Polar Star,
90. . . . . .
15 00
Michigan City, " 47.. .. ..
89 00 . North Star,
" 91......
66 00

« ......

Amount carried forward,

$3346 00

(128]

Amount carried forward.

,

$5612 00

1858.]

349

GRAND r.ot>GE OF CALIFORNIA.

A)llount brought forward, $5612 00
Amount brought forward,. . $6573 00
Acacia,
No. 92......
55 00 Chico,
No. 111..... .
61 00
Caymus,
"
93......
26 00 Summit,
" 112......
32 00
Mount Hermon, " 94......
66 00 Eden,
" 113......
68 00
HenryOlay,
"
95......
44 00 Me. Zion,
" 114 ...... 121 00
Howard.
"
96, . . • . .
67 00 St. Mark's,
" 115 . . . . • .
69 00
J•fferson,
"
97 . .....
61 oo Windsor,
" ll!i. . ....
41 00
Quartzburg,
" 98.... . .
29 00 Concord,
" 117.... . .
47 00
/;a Grange,
"
99. , , . . . 45 00 Vallecilo.
U. D.
50 00
CampoSeco,
" 100..... . 51 00 Clinton. ·
"
54 00
Olay,
" 101..... . 61 00 Fidelity,
"
62 00 •
Mam;inita,
" 102......
80 00 Jonie,
"
59 00
Oroville,
" 103,,,,..
80 00 Alamo,
"
26 00
Lp:i~gton,
" 104 ... , . . 39 00 Sotoyomi,
"
46 00
Siakiyou,
" 105. . . . . .
24 00 Table Mountain, "
28 00
Armta,
" 106. . . . . . 50 00 Progress,
"
42 00
Mt. Jefferson,
" 107..... . 35 00 La Fayette,
"
28 00
Owen,
" 108..... . 78 00 Ilermann,
"
~4 00
Dibble,
" 109 . . . . . 44 00 Visalia,
"
48 00
Pajaro,
" 110.... . .
26 00 Fol.!om,
"
35 00
Amonnt carried forward, .. $6578 00
Making the totnl amount of flues,. . ... ... . . ...................... $7494 00
All of which is respectfully submitted.
L. c. OWEN,
J. B. HEWSON,
A. T. NELSON,
OommiUu.
W. D. NEWTON,
A. E. WATTS, J

1

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. A. G. An:r:LL offered the following resolution:Resolved, Thnt in order to cnrry into effect the provision of Sec. 5, Art. XI.,
of the Constitution, the Grand Secretal'V be in~tructed to cause one hundred
Past MaRters' Diplomas to bo prepnred. •

Which resolution was adopted.
'fhe Grand Secretary presented n notice of the suspension of A. B.
HAYWARD, a non-affiliated Mason, by Lexington Lodge, No. 104, on
tl1e twenty-fourth day of April, 1858; which was referred to the
Committee on Grievance!!.
He also presented certain resolutions, unanimously ndopted by
Pol<tl' Star Lodge, No. 90, on the first day of May, 1858, surrendering
the Charter of that J,odgo in comequence of the great reduction of
its membership by removal ; which were received, and on his motion,
the surrender wos accepted, and Polar Star Lodge, No. 90, having
paid all its dues and satisfactorily wound up its affairs, was declared
extinct.
The Grand Master named Bro. JAB. L. ~}NGLISH as one of the
committee to revise the Constitution and Standing Resolutions of the
Grand Lodge, in his own stead.
17 .
l1~9]

MO

JOURNAL or PROCEEDINGS.

Bro. JOHN F. MoRSE1 from the Committee. on Finance and Accounts, presented the following report:To the M... W.·. Grand Lodge of Calijornia:Your Committee on Finance and Accounts respectfully recommend the
following appropriations for the present fiscal year, and take occasion to state
that they are intended to cover the entire expenses of the Grand Lodge during that
period. It will be perceived that the appropriations amount to $6,000, exclusive of the $2,000 added to the Ma.sonic Hall Fund ; and it is believed that this
~um will be sufficient to meet the disbursements for the year.
For expenses of Grand Officers, and of this Communication,............ .. $500
For printing and contingent expenses of Grand Secretary's Office,........ 2500
For salary of the Gr~nd Secretary,........... .... ..................... 2400
For salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary,. . . . . . . . . • • . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . 400
For salary of the Grand Treasurer,. ••..... . ..... , . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100
For attendance and services of the Grand Tyler, .... ................... . 100
For addition to the Masonic Hull Fund,. ...........................,. ... 2000
$8000
Your Committee suggest that, from the Grand Secretary's accounts and
estimates, this schedule of appropriations will be amply sustained by the present
and probable receipts.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JonN F. MoRsE, }
J, B. CARTER,
Committee.
J. w. BROWN,
H. C. HARRISON,

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro E. W. ROBERTS offered the following resolution : Ruolved, That the action of this Grand Lodge, on Saturday, the fifteenth
instant, by which the report of the special committee to whom was referred the
memorial of Bro. WM. GROVE DEAJ, was concurred in, and certain resolutions
accompanying said report were adopted, be and is hereby rescinded.

Which resolution was adopted.
Whereupon Bro. JOHN F. MORSE offered the following preamble
and resolution:Whereas, At the present Communication of this Grand Lodge, Bro. W111.
GaovJo; DEAL has submitted an application for Masonic assistance, on account of
the large outlays which he hnd made in relieving sick and distressed Masons of
California, in 1849 and '50 ; and whereas, from an investigation of the merits of
his claim, the Grand Lodge is fully convinced that his application should bl:l
earnestly recommended to the kind consideration of the subordin11ote Lodges,with the hope that a general and substantial response may be given thereunto,
it is
Resolved, That two hundred dollars be appropriated from the funds of this
Grand Lodge to Bro. WM. GR•>VJ<; Dur,, as a small acknowledgment of his past
services in relieving the sick and distressed members of our Fraternity in the
winter and spring of 1849 and '50 ; and that the],[.., W>. Grand Ma.ster be re·
quested to issue a circular Lo the subordinate Lodges in this jurisdiction, containing the above preaml.ile and tbi8 resolution, aad requesting the brethren to
take the claim of Bro. D~AL into their benevolent consideration.

Which preamble and resolution were unanimously adopted.
(130J

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

B51

• The Grand Secretary presented the following report of moneys received by him for account of the Grand Lodge from March 5th to May
17th, A. L. 5858, inclusive:For Diapemationa to open new Lodgu.
Jllarch 6. From Hermann Lodge, Grand Lodge Fee, ..........•• . .•... $75 00
May 17,
" Nicolaus
"
"
"
" .... ......... ..... 75 00
$150 00

For dues of the year ending March 4th.for Chartered Lodge.a, and May lat,/111' Lodgu
uniler Diapenaation.
March 5. From Geo. Wcuhington Lodge, No. 62, on account,, .. .... . ... $ 65 00
5. " Hiram
"
" 43, "
"
...........
79 00
"
"
6. "
Golden Gate
"
" 30, in full,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 152 00
"
5. "
Benicia
"
" 5, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 00
"
6. "
Summit
"
" 112, on account,..... . . . . . . .
32 00
"
6. "
Gravel Range
"
" 59, "
"
. . . . . . . • . . .. 67 00
"
8. "
lloward
"
" 96, in full,. . . . . . . . . • . . . .. .
67 00
"
8. "
Jefer8(Yll
"
" 97, on account,,.......... . 55 00
" 8. " San Francisco
"
" 7, in full,...... . . . . . . . . . .
96 00
"
!l. "
Ophir
"
" 33, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
55 00
"
9. "
St. John's
u 37, '* " .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
57 00
" 10. "
Natoma
"
" 64, " " .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
41 00
" 11. "
Polar Star
"
" 90, on account, for 1857-58, 15 00
" 11. "
San Diego
"
'· 35, , "
"
"
" "
41 00
" 12. "
Cllymm
"
" . 93, m full,............... .
26 00
" 13. "
Washington
"
" 20, balance in full for 1857, 137 50
" l 3. "
California
"
" 1, in full ..... . : . . . . • . . . . 230 00
" 15. "
Mount Hermon
"
" 94, on account,. .. , . . . . . . .
63 00
" 15. "
Volcano
"
" 56, bal. in full for 1857-58, 123 00
" 15. "
Owen
''
" 108, in full, . . . . . . . • . . • . . . .
78 00
" 16. "
Arcata
"
" 106, " " . ... , . . . . . . . . . .
50 00
" 18. "
Humboldt
"
" 79, on account, for 1857-68,. 25 00
" 19. "
Parfaite Union
" 17, in full,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 41 00
" 19. "
Mokelumm
"
" 31, " " . . . . • . . . . . • . . . .
67 00
" 20. "
Forbestown
"
" 50, on account,....... . . • . .
31 00
" 20. "
Siskiyou
" 105, in full,.. . • • • . • . • . . . . . .
27 00
" 23. "
Occidental
"
" 22, " " . . . . . . . • • . • • . . 102 00
" 24. "
Columbia
"
" 28, on account,. . . . . . . . . . .
82 00
" 26. "
Western Star
"
" 2, "
"
. . •. •. . . . . .
94 00
" 27. '·
Im Angelu
" 42, "
"
...........
88 00
" 27. "
Lexington
"
" 104, "
"
. . . ... , . . . .
34 00
" 29. "
Henry Olay
"
" 95, in full,. . . . . . . . . • • . • . . •
32 00
April 1.
Live Oak
" 61, " " for 1857,. , . . . . . .
27 00
"
1. "
Mariposa
"
" 24, " " ..•..• , , . . . . . . .
76 00
"
6. "
Yount
" 12, on account,. . • • • • . . . . . .
45 00
"
6. "
Iowa Hill
"
" 63, am't pd. after sur. Char.,
92 50
Trinity
"
·' 27, in full,................
89 00
" 14. "
" 14. "
Rough and Ready "
" 52, " " .. .. .. .. ......
65 00
" 16. "
Union
"
" 58, on account,. ......... .
44 00
" 16. "
Bear Mountain "
" 76, in full,......... . . . . . . .
28 00
" 16. "
Crescent
''
" 45, " " .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
43 00
" 22. "
Temple
"
" 14, on account, .... , . .... .
22 00
May 3. "
Campo Sem
"
" 100, in full,.. . . . . • . . . . . . . . .
51 00
"
3.
Sui8un
" 55, on account, . . . . . . . . . . .
68 00
4. "
Mountain Shade
" 18, "
"
.. . . . . . . . . • . 102 00 ·
Amount carried forward, .......................••. , . . $2932 00

[1311

352

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

[Ma,Y,

Amount brought forward, ................ . ... , .... , .. $2932 Oil
May 4. From Pa}aro
Lodge, No. 110, in full,...............
26 00
"

4.

"

4.

"

"
.,

5.
5.

"
"
"

7.
10.
10.
10.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

•

1

"

"

10.
10.

Mount Jefferson
Hermann
Rose's Bar

•'
;i

E. K. Kane

':

La Grange

"

Plurna.s
VaUeeito
Visalia
Clinton

"
"

St. Mark'•

"

10.
11.

Nevada

"

"

Petaluma

"

"

11.

·"

Jfanzanita

"

"

11.

"

''

11.

''

11.
" 11.
:: 11.
11.
11.

"

''

11.

''

"
"

11.
11.

"
"

"
'•
"
"

"

11.

H

"

11.

"

"
"

11.
11.

"
"

"

11.
11.

"
"

Live Oak
Butte
San Jose
Maduon
Quitman
Gol.d Hill
Forut
..dlt. Zt'on
Georgdown
1'iiba
Risin,q Sta.r
Windsor
Corinthian
Amador
Santa Cruz
Yolo

"
"

11.
11.

"
"

Tyro

"

"
"

11.
11.

"
"

'' 11.
" 12.
" 12.
'' 12.
'' 12.
" 12.
" 12.
" 12.
'' 12.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

12.
13.

"

''
''

13.
13.

"
"

"
"
"
"

13.
13.
la.
14.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

''

Santa Rosa
Naval

"

San Joaquin
Marysvilk
Minnesota.
Eureka
Ita Fayette
Acacia
Enterprise
Indian Di.ggings
St. Jama
Diamond
Ohico

"
"
"
"
''
"
•'
"
"
"
"

Tcxai
.Jforning Star

"
Washington
"
Mountain Forut "
P-0lar Star
Mount Moriah
i;
Martinez
"
. Tehama
"'
Dibble
"

"

14.

"

"
"

14.
14.

"
"

"

15.

u

North Star

''

15.

"

Fokom

"

15.

"

Quartzburg

"

"

Oroville

•1

" 107, "

" ...............

U. D., "

" .... ..........

35 00
14 00
No. 89, " '' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38 00
" 72, on BCCOUllt,. . . . . . . . . . .
63 00
" 99, "
"
for 1857-58, 120 00
" 60, "
. .......... v 55 00
U. D., " "
.. . . . . . . . . . . 34 00
U. D., in full,..... . . . • . . . . . .
48 00
U. D., "
" ... . .. . .. .. .. . .
54 00
No. 115, on account, ..... . ... . '.
59 00
" 13, in full,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106 00
77, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 101 00
" 102, on account,... . . . . . . . .
,80 00
" 61, in foll,........ ... .. . 17 00
36, '' '' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
19 00
10, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
87 00
23, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
!15 00
88, " " .. , , .. . ....... ,
77 00
32, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
38 00
" 66, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115 00
'" 114, '' '' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121 00
1
25, i; " • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
76 00
"
" 39, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
69 00
83, " '' .. . . ..... , . . . . .
87 00
1
" 116, " • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •
41 00
" 69, " " ....... .... .. , .
58 00
., 65, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
29 00
" 38, " " • • . • .. . . . . . .. ..
74 00
" 81, '' " . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
:n 00
" 73, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
31 00
" 57, " " for 1857-58, .... 143 00
" 87. " " • , .... . , . . . . . . .
58 00
53 00
9, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
68 00
'" 67, " •' .......... . , . . .
77 00
16, " " f'or 1857-58,... .
29 00
U. D., .~ " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
28 00
No. 92, ". " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
fl5 00
" 70, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
76 00
85~ " ·' . , . . . . . . . . . . . . .
39 00
" 54, " " . . .. .. .. . . . . . . .
38 00
" 29, " " ........ .. . .. , .
41 00
" 111, " " for 1857-58,.. ..
74 00
46, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
46 00
" 68, '' " . , . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 00
" 20, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 103 00
" 75, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
84 00
" 90, balance in full,.. . . . . . .
2 00
;'
44, in full,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 159 00
" 41, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
65 00
"
3, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 214 00
" 109, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
44 00
"
103, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
80 00
" 91, u " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
66 00
U. D., " " tosur. ofDispen., 38 25
No. 98, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
34 00

rn; " " . . . . .. . ... . . .. .

Amount carried forward,. .....• , . , ....... ... . ... .. . . $6609 25
[132)

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

353

Amount brought forward,. ... . ... .......... . ... •. ; ... $6609 25
May 15. From El Dorado
Lodge, No. 26, in full, .......... ., .. , 104 00
"
"
"

15.
15.
15.

"
"
"

"
''

11.
17.

"
"

"
"

17.
17.

"

May 10.
" 14.
" 14.
;: 15.

" 17.

Mountain
Ione
F,den
Alamo

"
"
·"
"

" 82, " " . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
" 80, " " . . . • . . . . . . . . . . .
" 113, i; " • • • • • . . • • • • • • • •

Vuper

"

No. 84-, "

Ola.y
Illinoi8tOW11

"

U. D., " " ....... ... , . . . .
" ...... ...... ...

" 101, on account,......... ..
" 51, in full,... . . . . • • .. .. .

44 00
40 00
68 00
26 00
40 00

52 00
35 00

$7018 25
For Ohartera ordertd at thu Communication.
From Vallecilo
Lodge, U. D., Grand Lodge Fee,. ...... . $50 00
50 00
Clinton
"
"
"
"
''
50 00
" Table }fountain "
"
"
"
50 00
'' La Fayette
"
"
H
"
"
50 00
" Alamo
"
iC
"
$250 00

RECAPITULATION.
To May 17,
·'

Ca~h receiYed for Dispensations, .... ... ... , .. , ....... .

·'

17,

''

'" "

17,

"

"

" IYlles, .. . ... . ..... . • . .•.... .. ......

" Charters,. ...... . .. . . ............ ..

$150 00
7018 25
250 00

Total amount received, .... . .... , ............. , ..... . $7418 25
Which snm has been paid over 'to the Grand Tre11surcr, ns will be seen from
bi~ receipts herewith presented.
All of which is respectfully submitteu.
ALEX. G. A11ELL, Grand Stcreiary.

The report' was received, and with the Secretary's books, was referred to the Committee on Finance and Accounts.
Bro. W. II. HOWARD, from the Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence, reported back the resolution of inquiry as to the position of
Mason~ stricken from the rolls of membership, with the recommendation that it be referred to a special committee; which recommendation
was concurred in, and the Grand Master named the following brethren
as such committee Bro. E. W. Roberts,
On the position of Masons Str1:ckenfrom tlte Roll:
" John F. Moree,
{ " A. D. Park.

In accordance with the recommendation contained in the report of
a special committee, submitted at the evening session of Saturday,
the fifteenth instant, the Grand Master, on behalf of the Fraternity
within this jurisdiction, presented to Past Grand Master WM. H.
HOWARD a beautiful gold watch, which had been provided for that
purpose under the resolutions adopted by the Grand Lodgo at its last
Annual Communication. The presentation was accompanied by a
[133)

354

[May,

JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

brief address from the Grand Master, expressive of the high esteem in
which he, and the Fraternity whom he represented, held the recipien~
.of the testimonial, which was appropriately responded to ·by Bro.
HOWARD.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock, this afternoon.

·1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

355

notify the Grand Secretary of the amount of their contributions, and to whom
the same was remitted or paid ; and that the Grand Secretary report such information as ·he may receive, at the next Annual Communication.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
E. H. vAN DEc.i.R, l C1
·u
s. w. LANGTON, f omml ee.
Which report was received and concurred in and the resolution
was adopted.
Bro. E. V'{. ROBERTS, from the special committee to whom was
referred the consideration of the position occupied by Masons stricken
from the rolls of membership, presented the following report:

Jn Qiranb J!obgc.
AFTERNOON SESSION' .

Jfonday, May 11th, A. L. 5858.

}

,

The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, P. M., the Grand
Master presiding.

'
Bro. JOHN F. MORSE, from the Committee on Finance
and Accounts,
pre~ented the following report: -

To the M. '. W: ·• Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee to whom was referred the supplemental account of the
Grancl Secretary, report that they have exami!1ed the same, and find that, fr?m
the fifth day of March to this date, he has received the Rum of $7418 25, which
he has paid over to the Grand Treasurer, and taken his receipt therefor.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
·
.ToHN F. MORSE,
J · B. C.i.RTER,
Committee.
,T, W. BROWN,
H . c. H.i.RRIBON,

l

Which report was received and concurred in.
Bro. E. H. VA.N DEOAR, from the special committee to whom were
referred cert.ain papers relative to a former committee appointed for
the purpose of procuring subscriptions for a _stone for the National
Washington Monument, presented the following report : -

To the M.'. W:-. Grand Lodge of California:Your Committee to whom was assigned the duty of ascertaining the amount
of money contributed by Lodges and brethren in tbis jurisdiction, to procure a
suitable stone for the National Washington Monument, beg leave to submit the
following report :- ·
·
We find that the committee, previously appointed by this Grand Lodge to
receive such contributions, have reported only the sum of twenty dollars as received by them. We are informed that other sums have been contributed by
various Lodges, but are unable to ascertain the amount thus co~tributed, o~ to
whom such contributions have been paid. We therefore submit the followmg
resolution:ReJJolved That all Lodges and brethren under this juri@diction, who have contributed m~neys for procuring a stone for the National Washington Monument,
[134]

1b the M,-. W:. Grand Lodge qf California:Your Committee, to whom was referred the resolution of enquiry presented
by Bro. P. 0. CL.!.YTON, beg leave to report that, in, their -opinion, members
stricken from the roll for non-payment of dues should be considered as deprived
of all the rights, privileges 11nd benefits of Masonry within this jurisdiction,
during the time they remain in that condition.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
E. W. RoRERTS, }
JOHN F. MORSE, Committee.
A.D. PARK,

Which report was received, nnd the subject of which it treats waA
referred to the committee appointed to · revise the Constitution and
Standing Resolutions.
·
Bro. JAMES J.,, ENGLISit, from the Committee on Grievances, presented the following rlU>Orts : -

To the .M." W:. Grand Lodge of California :Your Committee, to whom w11s referred the notice of the suspension of A. D.
HnwARn, by Lexi.ngwn Lodge, No. 104, Afril twenty-fourth, 1858, and of G. A.
WrtsoN, by Minnuota Lodge, No. 67, Apri nineteenth, 1868) have had the same
nnder consideration, and find that no action is required'by this Grand Lodge in
relation thereto.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
JAMES L. ENGLISH,}
L. B.i.TE~,
Committee.
JtJ. W. ROBERTS,
To the M.-. W>. Grand Lodge of California:Yonr Committee, to whom was referred the appeal of PETER Bnoss, in the
matter of his expulsion by Nebraaka Lodge, No. 71 ; as also the appeal of HENRY
Br•.i.m, in the matter of his suspension by the same Lodge, have hnd the same
under consideration. The committee have had no opportunity to review the
proceedings in either of these cases, ns the Lodge has neglected to send up tranFcripts thereof; 11.nd, es the accused should not be prejudiced in their rights by
the neglect of the Lodge to perform its duty, your committee recommend the
adoption of tbe following resolution : Reaolved, That the expulsion of PETER BROSS, and the suspension of HENRY
Bum, by Nebra:ika Lodge, No. 71, be reversed and set aside, and that the case
be remanded for further proceedings.
All of which is respectfully submitted.
J A.MES L. ENGLISH, }
L. BATES,
Committee.
E. W. ROBERTS,
[1351

356

[May,

.TOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS.

Both which reports were receiv.ed and concurred in, and the resolution accompanying the last was adopted.
The various standing and special committees, having l'eported upon
all the subjeets submitted for their consideration, were severally discharged.
The Grand Master announced the following committee Bro. Alex. G. Abell,
" 'rhos. P. Hawley,
On Foreign Correspondence........ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . •. .

·

·

"

{

STATEMENT
Of &ceipu by the Grand &crttary fr°'!' the .18th to the 31st day of .May, .A. L. 5858
.
inclu81ve.
'
May 18. From O-Oncord Lodge, ~?· 117, dues in full to 4th March ..... . . $47 oo
" 19.
" Progre.sa
"
125, Charter fee and unes to ist May 92 oo
" "
" . Hermann
'' " 127, Charter fee,. .....• • .......... .' 50 oo
" 29. " Santa Olara " " 84, dues on a.ccount to 4th March
38 oo
" 31.
" Fidelity
"
" 120, Charter fee and dues to 1st M~y;.112 oo
$339 00

Louis Cohn,

i".

:: i~~~~ ~~f~,ish,
" John F. Morse,
" L. C. Owen.

He also announced that Charters had been issued to the following
named Lodges during this Communication, viz :-to
Valkcito
Lodge, No. 118 ...... at Vallecito, .......... Calaveras County.
Otinton
"
" 119 ...... " Horeetown,. ..... . .. Shasta
..; " ·
.liUJelity
"
'' 120 ...... " San Francisco,.. . .. . Sau Francisco"
Ionic
"
" 121 ...... " Iowa Hill, .. . .... . . Pincer
H
Alamo
"
" 122 ...... " Alamo, ... . . . . ..... Contra Co8ta "
Soto;vomi
"
" 123 ...... " Healdsburg, . . . ..... Sonoma
"
Tahle Mountain
124 ...... " Oroville, .. . .. ...... Butte
"
0
Progru8
"
" 125. . . . " San 1'"ranciaco,.. .... San 14,rancisco
La Fayette
" 126 ...... " Anally Township, ... Sonoma.
"
Hermann
127 ...•.• " San Francisco,...... S1\n Franci~co "

The following resolution was unanimously adopted ; Rt8()lved, That this Grand Lodge justly and hig"hly appreciates the able, dignified and impartial mnnner in which the Grand Master he.s presided over its
deliberations during this Communic11tion.

The business being all completed, after prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Lodge of California was dosed in 2lm13le

5orm.
N. GREENE CURTIS, Grand Master.
ALEX. G. ABELL, Grand Secretary.

(136]

GRAN!> LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

" Aaron D. Park,
" Jonas ,V. Brown.

He also announced that the following named brethren constituted
the committee Bro. Alex. G. Abell,
On the Revision. of the Cons.titution and Standing Resolution., .
{

1858.J

STATEMENT
Of balame.s to th' dtbit and credit of Lodge.a on the Slat day of May, A. L. 5858 aa er
books of the Grand Secretary.
' p
We.stern Star
Tuolumne.
Yount
Temple
.Mountain Shade
Madi8on
Oolumbia
Mokd,umm
Santa Olara
San Diego
Sacrammt,o
Loa Angelu
Hiram
Forbe.stown
lllil!OUtoton
Union
Grave/, Rang'

Plu~

George Wa.ihington
Nelmuka
E. K . Kane
Odlaveras
Humboldt
Saint Louil
Mount Hermon
Jeffer10n
Quartzbtirg
La Grangf.
Olay
Manzanita

Lexington

Silkiyou
Valluit,o
Ionic
Sotoyomi
Tahle .Mountain

18

r·r

i111::::111:::::::::::i:;::

,,"

"

"
"
"
..".

"
"
"
"
"
.."

"

"
"
"

.."
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
.."

"

~4, .. , . . . . . . . • • . • • • • . . . . . . .

..

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

'

a oo

8 00

12 00
3 00
2 00
2 00
108 50
2 00
41 00
3 00
66 00

"
"

"
"

5 oo

c•.

~::::;;:::: >;;;; ;:;:; 'i'E '

50

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

·~rn

jf/./:::HHH ;;

~gt:::::::::::::::: ::::::: ggg

!~:: : : : : : :::: ::'!!
l1371

s

3 00

5 00

3 00

35R

JOURNAL OF l>ROCEEDINGS:

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OJ' OALIFORNIA.

359

LETTER
From the Lodge OltmtnteAmitil, in Paris, which was ordered to be printed with
the proceedings, for the information of the Lodges. See page 329 of the J ourne.l },-TO THE GLORY OF THE GRAND ARCHITECT OF THE UNIVERSE.
UN ION-BENEVOLENCE,

The Respectable Lodge, Chapter, and Areopagu,, Clemente Amitie.
ORIE~ o' P.uus,

Jan. 12, A. L. 6868, A . D. 1868,

}

To the V<J'!/ IUu1trioua and Very Rupectable
Grand Jla#Ur of the Respu;t.able Grand Ledge

of Ancient Hatunt for the State of California.
VERY RESPECTABLE GRAND MABTE11,
The members of our Craft in the two hemisphere• form but one family, and you will not be
turprised if we presume, in rendering homage to your eminent merit, to transmit to you evidences
of our respectful consideration, our unalteru.ble confidence, and our r-0ustant friendship.
We have entrmtted the present communication to Bro. FINANCE, ft.D esteemed merchant of your
Orient, who will nlso deliver to you certain publications of our labors, and u. diploma constituting
you an honorary member of our Lodge, one of the most IJeautiful l\Dd recommendable of the Orient
of Paris. We pray you also to hR.ve the kindness to transmit to, our very dear Bl'o. A.G. ABELL,
the accompanying diploma, constituting him also an honorary member of our Lodge, in testimony
of our approciation of his Maaonic labors.
AHcr having r endered to your high position in the Order, the homage justlr. due, you will
doubtle•s t><'rmlt us to develop a propoeitlon, which, if it bo entertained, will contribute not<lJllY to
the ad\'ancement of tho humane mis•ion to which we ha1·u devoted ourselves, but will pr(lfe that
Masons, wherever distributed upon the eurfncc of the glob('., never let pRss o.n opportunity for
o.ssisting each other and for render·ing aid in all good works.
Six months ngo !Iii• Lodge took under its protection an Orphan Asylum, conducted by a respectable minister in one of the srnaU parishes in the environs of the Capital. It has commenced by
completely clothing forty-five young girls, to whom education and employment shall hereafter not
be wanting. The ceremony of taking the habit of the institution r eunited the clergy, the magistracy, the army, and the Masonic Order, in one great communion; and the dny Wl\8 ~ignalizet.l by
an act of piety of our brother JOUBERT, a lieutenant of a.rtillery, who was miraculously preserved
from the explosion or a magazine nt the captUJ't' of tho Mnlnkoff, nnd who dedicated his Croes of
the Legion of Honor to the Virgin Protec.t res• of the Asylnm. 'Ihie ceremony lias been p<rpetuated in n picture from the pencil of our brother F.tcATIS, containing thil'ty portraits drawn from
l!fo, which will be lithographed, and the copies di•tributcd among those of our brethren who will
aid us in ftle enterpriae we have undertaken.
The Asylum is now under our direction, ancl we provide for itFO neceesnry expem1cs. Mon~hmr
de MONGIB, Procureur-General of the Imperial Court.of Dijon, offers us, at a very reasonable price, l\
chateeu which he possesses in the environs, and to which we would be glad to remove the inatitu•
t.ion. Wo desire to effect the purchase, and to endow tho i'rnternity of France with 1<n Asylum for
the daughters of ]'reemasons; but we wiah to do it with the nid of' our foreign brethren, t.o proVt>
to our follow-citizens how good and generous tlwy aro, nnd that our ancient lnstitutlon is not
bene\'olent in theory only, like many others of the present time.
· To carry out our conception, we propose the following inducemcnb1 : - Evt>ry Lodgo nnd <Wery
brother subscribing and paying $40 per annum fur ftvo yenrs-Hny $~00,-will have its or his
name and titles Inscribed in letters of gold upon a marble !Rblot in tho principal haU of the A•ylum
-will receive a silver medal commemorative of ttl!I establishment -will ho considered one of it~
founders -and will be entitled to a lithograph of the picture beforo named, to nil the publication•
concerning the institution, and to a copy of the work of J,!ontenant JoU!IEllT. Every Lodge and
every brother subscribing and paying $20 at once, will hnvo its or his name recorded ns a subscriber
in a register kept at the Asylum, will receive a bronze mod1d, and will be t::ntit.lt•d to thA pubJi<'n~
tlons, the lithograph, and the memoir of Lieutenant J OUBERT, nbovo named.
We pray you to preRent this proposition to the Ornnf\ I.odge which has tho good fortune to
possess yon for its presiding officer, end to direct your worthy nnd learned Grand Secretary to
suggest it to all the Lodges within your jurisdiction. If your truly masonic heart will take thl•
request into cousideratlon, we aro certain in advnnce th1<t Cn!iforniR will not remain behind In tho
good work. and that we shaU be enabled to i11Rcriho yon ""ono of the firmest supports of an undertaking such ne France hM not Been for a hundred nnf\ fifty years.
Pardon us, Very Illustrious Grand l\IRs ter, for hR.ving thus occupied a few momenta of your
valuable time; but your renown has r eached us, nnd we know that of o.11 the Grand Masters who
are dolug so much for the glo1-y of American Masonry-that groat and useful Masonry - you are
one in whom neither zeal nor willingness will be wanting. Bo pleased to accept our sincere wfoheo
!or your heRlth and prOl!perity.
Yom· very affoctionl\te nnd devoted brother,

LE Br,ANC Jl!I: M~<;oNNAY, 33d.

-

(138]

CONSTITUTION
~rnnb J!obge of $rec ani) -::2\cccptcb Jltnson.s
Ot' '!'Ht:

STAT}!}

OF CALIFORNIA,

AS AMENDED MAY, A. L. 5857.

ARTICLN I.
STYLE AND TITLE,

S11:cT1os 1. The style and title of this Grand Lodie she.II he, "The Gre.nd
Lodge of Free and Accepted Ma.sons of the State of Ca.lifornle.."
ARTICLE II.
RANK ANIJ 1'ITLE OF OFFICERS AND l\IEMBKUS.

Ss:cnoll 1. The Gre.nd Lodge sho.11 consist of the following olllcer~ e.nd members:The Most Worshipful Grand Master,
The Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Me.ster,
The Right Wor8hipful Senior Gre.nd We.rden,
The Right Worshipful Junior Gre.nd We.rden,
.The Right Worshipful Gre.nd Tree.sure!',
The Hight Worshipful Gre.nd Secretary,
A Right Worsl1ipful Gre.nd Che.plain.
A Grand llforshal,
A Grand Standard Benrer,
A Grand Swor.d Bee.rer,
A Senior Grand Doe.con,
A Junior Grand Deacon,
Two Grand Stewards,
A Grand Tyler,
And such other officers as the Gre.nd Lodge from time to time may elect or ap·
point ; ·together with
The Most Worshipful Pa.st Gre.nd Masters,
The Right Worshipful Pe.st Deputy Gre.nd Masters,
'l'he Right Worshipful Past Gre.nd Wardens,
The Right Worshipful Past Gre.nd Treasurers,
And the Right Worshipful Pe.st Grand Secretaries,
who r emain members of Lodges under this jurisdiction i and of the Worshipful
Masters ond Warden.a, for the time being, of the several chartered and constl·
[139]

860

CONSTITUTION OF 'fHE

[May,

tuted Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge, or their legally a~
pointed proxies, and the Past Masters, members of Lodges under the jurisdiction
of this Grand Lodge.
ARTICLE III.
MEETI!<US OF THE GRJ.ND LOllUE.

SECTION 1. The Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge ehall be held in
the City of Sacramento, on the second Tuesday of May, in each year.
SEc. 2. The Grand Master, (or in-his absence from the State, or inability to
attend, the Deputy Grand Master,) upon the application of the presiding officers
of any three Lodges under this juriediction, shall call special meetings of' the
Grand Lodge.
ARTICLE IV.
l!JU:CTION OF GR.I.ND OFFI<;Eil.S.

SECTION I. The Most Worshipful Grand Master, Right Worshipful Deputy
Grand Master, Rlirht Worshipful Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, Right
Worshipful Grand Treasurer, and Right Worshipful Grand Secretary, ehall be
elected at each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, on the fourth day
of' its sitting, and shall hold their respective offices until their successors are
duly elected and installed. A majority of all the votes cast at an election for
Grand Officers, shall be necessary for a choice. All other Grand Officers shull
be appointed in such manner ns the Grand Lodge may direct.
I
S.11:c. 2. No brother shall be ellgible to au elective office unless he is a Present
or Past Master, nor entitled to membership in the Grand Lodge, unless a member of a subordinate Lodge under this jurisdiction.
ARTICLE V.
VOTING.
SECTION I. Each of' the Grand Officers for the time being, and every elective Past Grand Officer present at a meeting of the Grand Lodge, shall be entitled to one vote. Each Lodge shall be entitled to three votes by its proper
officers, or in their absence, their proper representatives ; and the Past Masters,
by service, of each Lodge, collectively, to one vote. No member, of his own
right, shall be entitled to more than one vote.
SEc. 2. In all questions except thoBe decided by ballot, in the event of a tie,
the presiding officer shall have the casting vote:
8Ec. 3. No Lodge under this jurisdiction and within this State, shall be repre~en ted by a proxy who is not u member of the Lodge.
ARTICLE VI.
STANDING COMMITTEES.

SECTION I. At each meeting of the Grand Lodge, the Grand Master or presiding officer shall appoint the following committees, each to consist of not less
tha~ three nor more thnn five members, viz.:A Committee on Credentials.
A Committee on Grievances.
A Committee on Unfinished Busine8s.
A Committee on Finance and .Accounts.
A Committee on Foreign Correspondence.
A Committee on Dispensations and Charters.
A Committee on Work.
A Committee on Masonic Jurisprudence.
A Committee on Education.
A Committee on By-Laws.
ARTICLE VII.
UIUND OF~'ICERS.

SECTION I. The Grand Master, or, in the event of his absence from the
State, or inability from any cause, the Deputy Grand Master, may, upon

[140]

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

361

the petition of seven or more Master Masons, properly recommended by the
nearest or most convenient Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons, working
under Charter, grant Dispensations to form new Lodges within the limits of this
State, or in the adjoining Teu!tories, where no Grand Lod~e exists · which Dispensation shall be returnable at the next Annual Commumcation of the Grand
Lodge, when the Grand Lodge may order a perpetual Charter, or continue the
Dispensation until the next Annual Meeting of the Grand Lodge: Provided,
That when application is made for a Dispensation to form a new Lodge in u
town or city, the recommendation of a majority of all the Lodges in such town
or city shall, in every instance, accompany the petition ; and no Dispensation
shall be Issued to the :petitioners, unless their petition be also accompanied by
the certificate of the Worshipful Master of each Lodge recommending it, that
the Worshipful Master named in said petition is fully competent to confer the
three degrees of Masonry.
SEC. 2. On the first day of the Annual Meeting of the Grand Lodge, or as
~oon thereafter as possible, the Grand Master shall lay before the Grand Lodge
a written message, therein detailing un account of his official acts during the
recese, and the state and condition of Masonry in his jurisdiction ; and shall
recommend to the Grand Lodge such measures as he may deem expedient and
necessary.
SEC. 3. The Deputy Grand Master shall also report, In writing, at every Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, all his acts und doings, relating to
.,,.,
his office during the vacation.
SEC. 4. The Grand Treasurer, Grand Secretary and Grand Tyler shall receive
such compensation for their services as the Grand Lodge may, from time to time,
determine.
SEc. 5. It shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary to pay over to the Grand
Treasurer all moneys in his hands belonging to the Grand Lodge, at each .Annual Communication, nnd quarterly during the recess thereof; and render an
account of the same at each Annual Meeting of the Grand Lodge.
SEc. 6. The Grand Treasurer shall receive all moneys from the Grand Secretary, belonring to the Grand Lodge, keep a correct record thereof, and at each
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge, shall render. an account of all his
receipts and disbursements; but no disbursement shall be made by him without
an order from the Gr·and Lodge, signed by the presiding officer and the Grand
Secretary, except as hereinafter provided.
SEO. 7. The Grand Secretary and Grl\nd Treasurer, prior to their installation,
shall execute, respectively, to the Grand Master, or, in his absence, to the Deputy
Grand Master, for the time being, to the use of the Grand Lodge, a bond, with
such security a,nd for such sum as the Grand Master, or, in his absence, the
Deputy Grand Master, may approve, conditioned for the faithftd discharge or
their respective duties.
Szo. 8. All other Grand Officers receiving funds belonging to the Grand
Lodge, 11hall immediately transmit the same to the Grand Secretary.
ARTICLE VIII.
row1m..~ Oh' ·rHE <HtAND r,oum;.

811:<,"i'ION I. The Grand Lodge has original and exclusive jurisdiction over all
subject. of Masonic legislation, and appellate jurisdiction only from the decisions of the subordinate Lodges; and its .inactments and decisions upon all
questions shall be the supreme Masonic law of the State. It shall also prescribe
such rules and regulations for· the government of the subordinate Lodges, a11
will, in its judgment, conduce to the welfare, prosperity and happiness of the
Craft ; and may grant Dispensations and Charters for the establishment of new
Lodges, and may revoke and annul the same, for such causes us it may deem
sufficient. It shall prescribe the manner, and shall require a uniform mode of
working; and may require from.the subordinate LodgeS:snch reasonable dues and
fees, as will at all times discharge the engagements of the Grand Lodge. •
[141]

1858.]

362

•

CONSTITUTION OF THE

ARTICLE IX.
REVENUE.
SECTION 1. The fee for instituting a subordinate Lodge, shall be one hundred
and twenty-five dollars; seventy-five dollars of which shall be paid on the issuing of the Dispensation, and fifteen dollars to the Grand Secretary; and fifty
dollars when the Charter is granted, and ten dollarR to the Grand Secretary for
engrossing the same, and affixing thereunto the seal of the Grand Lodge.
SEC. 2. Each Lodge shall pay into the treasury ot' the Grand Lodge the sum
of one dollar for each degree conferred on candidates, the sum of one dollar for
each adjoining member, and one dollar annually for each contributing member.
· SEC. 3. There shall be paid into the hands of the Grand Secretary five dollars
by the applicant, for every diploma granted to 11 member of a Subordinate
Lodge, (four dollars for the Grand Secretary ;) but no diploma shall issue
except upon the presentation of' a oertificate from the Secretary of the Lodge,
of which the applicant is a member, of his good and regular standing therein.
Such diploma, when issued, shall be signed by the Grand Master, or Deputy
Grand Master, and countersigned by the Grand Secretary, who shall affix thereto
the seal of the Grand Lodge.
SEc. 4. For every copy of any portion of the proceedings of the Grand
Lod~e, or any document in possession of the Grand Secretary, which he shall be
reqmred to make, he may demand and receive for hiR use fifty cents for eTery
one hundred words.
ARTICLE X.
SUlJOROLl\'ATE LOnm:s.

SECTION 1. l~h·ery subordinate Lodge shall elect its officers annually by ballot, by a majority of' the votes of the members present, at the stated meeting
next preceding the anniversary of St. Jo.hn the Evangelist, (excepting in cases
hereinafter provided,) who shall be instnlled on the evening of their election, or
a8 soon thereafter as practicablf', and shall retain their respective offices until
their successors in office shall be elected and duly installed.
SEC. 2. Each subordinate Lodge shall have the right to adopt By-Laws for.itR
own· government, which shall be submitted for the approval of the Grand
Lodge; and, if approved, no amendment thereto shall be valid. until it shall
have received the snnction of the Grand Lodge, Grand Master, or Deputy Grand
Master.
SEC, 3. J<.Jacb subordiu!\te Lollge shall assemble for work at least once in
every calendar month ; and if any Lodge shall foil to meet for six successive
months, it shall forfeit its Charter.
SEC. 4. All the proceedings, ballotings and business of' the Lodge, except
that of conferring Hubordinate degrees, ~hall be bad and done in a Lodge of
Master Masons.
•
SEC. 5. No Lodge within this State shall confer the three degrees of llfosonry
for a less sum than fifty dollars; 11nd no Lodge under the jurisdiction of thiR
Grand Lodge, and out of the State, shall confer the three degrees of Masonry
for a less sum than thirty-five dollars ; and, in each case, the fee for each degree,
as regulated by the Lodge, shall invariably accompany the application.
SEC. 6. All applications for initiation or membership shall be made in writing.
at a stated meeting of the Lodge ; but shall not be acted upon until after the
expiration of four weeks, and then only at a stated meeting. Nor shall there be
conferred more than one degree upon the same candidate at any one meeting of
the Lodge ; and no Lodge shall confer the deirreee upon more than five candidates at any one meeting ; nor shall more tb1m one candidate bo initiated,
passed or raised at one and the same time.
SEC. 7. It shall be the duty of every Lodge, worki11g under a Dispensation,
on an application for an extension of such Dispensation. or for a Charter, to su.bmit its Book of Records for the inspectiQn of the Grand Lodge.
Si;;c. 8. Each Lodge shall be represented in every .Annual Meeting of the
Grand Lodge, and shall furnish a correct account of its proceedings during the
past year,Ju a form to be prescribed by the Grand Lodge, nnd make payment of

[142]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOltNlA.

863

[Ma,Y,
its regular dues ; and, in case of the non-performance of these duties, its representatives may be debarred from all the privileges of the Grand Lodge, and its
Charter may be declared forfeited by a vote of the Grand Lodge.
Si.:c. 9. It is not competent for a Lodge to expel or suspend a member from
the rights and privileges of Masonry, for the non-payment of dues; but any
member who shall have neglected to make payment of his dues for the space of
six months, except in case of protracted illness, or absence from the State, may
be summoned to appear before the Lodge, to show cause why bis name shall
not be stricken from the roll of members. And any Mason whose name shall be
stricken1from the roll, shall not be received as a member of any other Lodge until he sbi\ll hve paid up all arreara~es to the Lodge of which he was last a member· or, in the event of the non-existence of said Lodge, to the Grand Lodge.
SEC. 10. All complaints and charges brought against 11 brother before a Lodge,
proper to be written, shall be reduced to writing, and filed with the Secretary;
a copy of which Rhall be served upon .the accused, at least ten days before he Is
arraigned for trial ; and after trial had, should the accused be suspended or expelled from the rights and privileges of Masonry, it shall be the duty of the
Lodge to report the fact to the Grand Lodge at its next annual meeting.
SEc. 11. In all cases of suspension or expulsion by a subordinate Lodge, the
right of appeal lies to the Grand Lodge ; but no such appeal shall be entertained
unless prosecuted at the annual meeting of the Grand Lodge next ensuing the
time of the decision from which the appeal is made · and no suspension or expulsion shall be published until the Grand Lodge shali have coinizance thereof.
'L'be Grand Lodge shall prescribe rules and regulations for the trial of appeals.
Sze. 12. No appeal from any decision of tho Master of a Lodge shall bo
taken to the body of the Lodge ; but five members of any subordinate Lodge may
prefer charges to the Grand Master, or, in his absence, to the Deputy Grand
Master, against the Master of said Lodge, who, upon the bearing of said charges,
slmll, if be deem necessary, suspend such Master from the j!Xercise of the duties
of' his office, until the next Annual Grand Communication.
SEO. 13. No Entered Apprentice, or Fellow Craft Mason, shall be advanced
to a superior degree, in any Lodge- other than that in which he received the previous degree, unless by the consent, in writing, of that Lodge, if said Lodge be'
at the time in existence.
SEC. 14. On the rejection of nn applicant for initiation or any of the degrees,
by any Lodge under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, the Secretary of said
Lodge shall forthwith notify the Grand Secretary thereof, under the seal of t he
Lodge; whose duty it shall be once in every two months to forward to each ol'
the subordinate Lodges in this jurisdiction, a notice of all such rejectfild applicants; and uo Lodge shall be allowed to receive a petition,from any such rejected
iipplicant within a less period than one yenr from the date of such rejection.
SEC. 15. A book shall be kept by the Secretary of each subordinate Lodge,
alphabetically arranged, in which shall be registered the nameAof all person11
stricken from the r oll, expelled, suspended or reject.ed, together with the namf!
of the Lodge, and date of the event ~o recorded.
AR'l'ICLE XI.
MISC1ELLANE0Ui<.
8Kur10N l. It shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary, ns early as practicahle after each annual session of the Grand Lodge, to cause to be published, in
pamphlet form, all such minutes of the proceedings of the Grand Lodge as are
proper to be published ; appended to which he shall also publish all standing
rules and orders of the Grand Lodge, together with a list of officers and members of each subordinate Lodge, according to the last returns, the times of the
stated meetings of said Lodges, and the places where they are respectively located; copies of' which publication shall be fOJ;warded to each Grand Officer,
and to each subordinate Lodge under this jurisdiction, and each of the Grand
Lodges in communication with this Grand Lodge.
SEc. 2. In caRe of the forfeiture of the chart.er, or dissolution of I\ Lodge,

LI43l

864

CONS'.rITUTION OF THE

[May,

from any cnuse whatever, all its books, papers, jewels, funds, and other property,
shall be forfeited to the Grand Lodge, and it shall be the duty of the Grand
Master, or Grand Secretary, to take chnrge of the same.
SEc. 3. When a Dispensation shall iBBue to open and bold a Lodge, the officers
therein named shall hold their respective offices until the time of the expiration
of the Dispensation ; and, upon the iBBuing of a Charter, it shall be the duty of
the Grand Ma~ter, or Deputy Grand Master, in person or by proxy, (upon notice
that the brethren desire to have the Lodge constituted,) to convene said brethren at such time as may suit his and their convenience ; and when so convened,
to hold an election of officers, according to the ancient regulations and usages
of the Craft.
SEc. 4. It shall be competent for the Grand Lodge to adopt such other rules
and regulations as it may deem neceBBary, not lnconsietent with thi11Co11stltution
Rnd the ancient rules and regulations of Freemasonry.
SEo. 5. The Master, or Past Master, by service, of any Lodge under this jurisdiction, who has faithfully discharged his duties, and complied with tbe laws
of the Grand Lodge, shnll, on a,Pplication to ihe Grand Secretary, bo presented
with a Past Mnster's Diploma, signed by the Grand Secretary, with the seal of
the Grnnd Lodge ntllxed thereto ; for which ho ~hall pay the Grand Secretary
five dollars.
ARTICLE XII.
DEFIN!TlOJIR,
SECTION 1. The stated meetings of Subordinate Lodges referred to ln this
Constitution, shall not be construed to mean any other than the meeting specified in the By-Laws of the Lodge ; nnd no adjourned or called meeting shall bo
considered to be part of said stated meeting.
SEc. 2. A Past Master is only one who ha• been regularly elected, lnstRlled,
and served for one term as Worshipful Master of a Lodge.
ARTICLE XIII.
A:'>IENDMENTH

.um .u.TER.A.TIONt!.

SECTION 1. Any proposed amendment or alterntion of this Constitution shall
be presented to the Grnnd Lodge, in writing, at an Annul\l Communication,
before the election of Grand OJl!cers, by the representatives of at least three
~ubordinate Lodges, and, If sanctioned by a rn"-Jority of the members present,
shall be published with the proceedings as a subject for future nction ; and,
upon its adoption at the next Annual Communication of the Cknnd Lodge by
two thirds of the votes given thereon, the sRme shall become a part of this Constitution. Pr<1Vided, That the vote on such proposed amendment ~hall be taken
prior to the election of Grand Offlcer11.

l144]

'

1858.]

GRAND LODGE 01' OALll'ORNIA.

865

BY -L AWS
OF

THF.

GRAN D L 0 D GE 0 F CAL I F 0 RN I A,
A S A n 0 P T E D, M A Y ,

A. J,. 5 8 5 5.

ARTICI,E I.
SECTION 1. After the Grand Lodge Is opened, the Grand Secretary shall call
n roll of the members.
SEo. 2. The Grand Master shall then appoint a Committee on Credentials.
Ss:o. S. The Grand Master, aftP.r the report of the Committee on Credentials
ls returned, shall appoint the various Oommltteea, as provided in the Constitu·
tlon.
t;Eo. 4. The Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer shall, on the afternoon of
the first day of the session, make their reports, which shall be read and referred
to the Finance Committee.
ARTICLE II.
Smorroli 1. After the ,business is completed, as laid down in the foregoing Ar·
tlole, petitions shall be read and referred to the appropriate cGmmlttees.
Biilo. 2. All committees shall make their reports In writing, before the final
close of the Communication, and be discharged, unleBB otherwise ordered. This
ls not to Include the Committees on Foreign Correspondence and Unfinished
Business.
ARTICLE III.
SECTION 1. The order of business at each session, after the first day, shall be 1\8
follows:1. Reading and approving the minutes of the preceding se1111ion.
2. Reports of the Committee on Credentials.
S. Reports upon Unfinished Business of previous Communication.
4. Motions and reeolntions, and reference or other disposition of the same.
5. Reports of Standing Committees, and action thereon ; the Committee on
Fo1elgn Correspondence to have precedence.
6. Reports of Special Committees of last and present Communication, and
action thereon.
7. Special orders and motions, (if any.)
8. Consideration of Amendments to the Constitution, General Regulation&
and Rules, (if any.)
9. Unfinished Business of previous session, (if an,.)
10. Miscellaneous buslneBB, not Included in any o the foregoing.
SEC. 2. Should the business, as laid down, not be concluded at the !CBBlon at
which It is first called up, it shall be commenced at the next succeeding session,

19

[145]

\

366

BY-LAWS OF THE

[May1

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNJA.

where it was left off, and so on through the Communication, taking up the
order of business as set forth.-Provided, that the reading of tbe minutes be first
in ord.er at each seEsion.
ARTICLE IV.
SECTION 1. No member, representative or proxy shall, under any pretence,
be admitted into the Grand Lodge without his {'roper clothing, or be allowed
to vote without his jewel, unless he offer a so.t1sfactory excuse, o.nd have permission from the Grand Lodge.
ARTICLE V:
SECTION 1. In filling blanks, the largest sum or number, and the longest time
shall be first stated.
·
SEC. 2. No member shall speak more than twice upon the same subject, unless
he first obtain consent of ~he Grand Lodge, nor then more than five minutes at
either time.
SEC. 3. All reports, motions and resolutions must be in writing before being
introduced.
SEC. 4. The rules of order .shall not be suspended at any time, except by
unanimous consent.
SEC. 5. No new motion or other business shall be received except in regular
routine.
SEc. 6. No motion' to reconsider a vote or motion shall be entertained unless
made at the same session of the same day on which the question shall have been
decided i nor shall it be in order unless moved by one of the majority, and duly
eecondea.
Sgc, 7. If the previous que1>tion should be called for by the representatives
of one Lodge, and duly seconded by the representatives of another, and the
majority of the members present sustain such call, it shall be put in this form :
"Shall the main question be now put?" and if carried, such main question Ahall
be the original proposition as amended at the time of adoption of the call for
the previous question.
SEC. 8. Any of these By-Laws may be amended by notice in writing ueing
given at one session, and to be acted upon at the next, and it ~hall require twothirds of all present, to carry such amendment.
SKc. 9. All other By-laws of this Grand Lodge are hereby repealed, from and
o.fter the close of the present Communication.

[146j

367

REGULATIONS
O~'

GRAND

LODGE

RELATIVE

Tllll:

OF CALIFORNIA,
TO

'!'RIALS,

AS A.MENDED !IAY, A. L. 5858.

SECTION I.
Whenever a member of a Lodge, or any Mason under this jurisdiction, shall
be accused of an offence which, if proved, would subject him to suspension or
expulsion, the proceeding in the premises shall be conducted agreeably to the
following rules : Ruu: 1. The accusation ahall be made in wrlting, over the signature of a
Master Mason, and given In charge of the Secretary of the Lodge, who, under
the direction of the Master, shall serve, or cause the accused to be served, with
an attested copy of the charges, at least ten days previous to the time appolnte<l
for the examination : Provided, That the residence of the accused shall be known ,
and shall be within the distance of fifty miles of the place where the Lodge,
having the matter in hand, Is locate«. If the residence of the accused be at a
greater distance than fifty mile~. but within the State, then, and In that ca11e, l\
summons to appear and show cause, forwarded to him by mail, or ·other conveyance, at least twenty days before the time of trial, shall be considered sufficient
service. If his residence be out of the State, or unknown, the Lodge may proceed to examine the charges, ex parte; but if known, and out of the State, a
Rummons shall be sent him by mail, or otherwise, at least four months before
the time appomted for the examination.
Rur.E "l. The examination of the charges shall be had in a· Lodge ·specially
notified and convened for the purpose, at which no visitors shall be admitted,
except as counsel or witnesses.
· RCLl!l 3. The accused .may select any brother for his counsel, and the witnesses shall testify, if Masons, on their honor as such. Hearsay evidence shall
be excluded. ·
RuLE 4. The question, " Is the accused guilty or not guilty?" shall be distinctly put to each member of the Lodge, and the vote thereon shall be by ballot.
Rur.E 5. If the verdict be eu~penslon or expulsion,,the name of the person so
Ruspeuded or expelled shall be sent np at the ensuing meeting of the Grand
Lodge for exammation ; 1rnd if no appeal be taken, the action shall be final.
RuLE 6. A sentence of expulsion shall not take effect until confirmed by this
Grand Lodge, but eball operate as a suspension of the delinquent, in the meantime. In all cases, 11 vote of two-thirds shall be necesaary to find a verdict of
guilty, and and a like vote shall be required to suspend or expel ; buta majority
!!hall be sufficient to reprimand or censure. When the sentence is expulsion, even
if no appeal be taken, a complete transcript of the proceedings and evidence
shall be sent up to the Grand Lodge.
RULE 7. When 11 sentence of expulsion or suspension shall be pronounced by
any Lodge, the Secretary of such Lodge, under its seal, shall immediately notify
the Grand Secretary of such event.
SECTION II.
Ui;r,E 1. A suspension or expulsion of a Mason from a Royal Arch Chapter,
or a Commandery of Knights Templal', shall not operate as an expulsion from
the Lodge of which he iR a member.

(147]

STANDING RESOLUTIONS 01' THE

[Mau,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA.

IO. That the Grand Master nominate, and the Grand Lodge appoint, an As·
the ab·
sence of the Grand Secretary, and for whose acts the Grand Secretary shall bP.
responsible. [Nov. 1851,]
·
11. That a Grand Lodge is the Supreme Head of Symbolic Masonr~-, and that
it has exclusive right to establieh Lodges to confer the three Symbolic Degrees
of Ancient Craft Masonry within its jurisdiction. [May, 1852.]
12. Rescinded, May, 1856.
13. That hereafter, no Lodge in this jurisdiction shall advance a candidate
t.o a superior degree unless he, in open Lodge, satisfy the members present that
he is fully qualified in his work to enable him to progress. [May, 1852.]
14. That no Lodge in this jurisdiction shall receive lecturce ftom any person as the authorized work, uuleBI! under the sanction of the Grand Lodge or
Gr~nd Master. [May, 1862.]
·
15. That the Grand Secretary take charge of the jewels, clothing, and furniture of the .Grand Lodge, and deposit them in some secure place for safe keep.
ing. [May, 1852.]
16. That after the present session of the Grand Lodge, none but the actual
expenses of the elective Grand Officers for attending the Grand Lodge, be allowed. [May, 1852.]
17. That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge, that the removal of a Warden
without the jurisdiction does not affect his right to representation in the Grand
Lodge, so long as he remains a member of the Grand Lodge, by virtue of being
l\ Warden of a subordinate Lodge under this jurisdiction. [May, 1852.]
18. That it shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary, at the close of each
session, to notify all Lodges in arrears, and request the settlement of their dues.
[May, 1853.]
19. That no hooks or papers, belonging to the Grand Lodge, shall be taken
from the Grand Secretary's office, ~xcept it be for the me of the Grand Lodge,
or Grand Officers. [May, 1853.]
20. That the Grand Secretary furnish every brother, elected or appointed
to fill any office or station in the Grand Lodge, with a certificate of his election
or appointment, under seal of the Grand Lodge. [May, 1853.]
21. That the Grand Secretary be authorized to procure an office in a fireproof buildinit, for the better preservation of the archives of the Grand Lodge.
[May, 1853.)
22. That it is the opinion of this Grand Lodge, that any member of a subordinate Lodge under another jurisdiction, may become by affiliation a member
of a subordinate Lodge ull:der this jurisdiction, provided he be in good standing
in his original Lodge, and pays his dues regularly in both. [May, 1853.]
23. That no money or funds in the treasury of the Grand Lodge, held In trust,
or specially appropriated, shall be paid out on any order or draft., not made applicable to the same by the terms of such order or draft. [May, 1853.]
24. That the Dy-Laws of any Lodge which may be approved by the Grand
Master, or Deputy Grand Master, during the recess of the Grand Lodge, shall be
presented at the next Annual Communrcation of the Grand Lodge for its approval. [May, 1853.]
·
25. That all chartered Lodges, hereafter, in issuing any and all notices or
other documents therefrom, shall attach the Lodge seal thereto, otherwise not to
be acted upon by the Lodge to whom seut ; and all returns or other papers returnable to the Grand Lodge, ~hall bear such impress ; allowing such Lodges aR
have no seals, three months to procure the same. [May, 1853.]
. - ~ 26. That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge, that the converting the funds
of subordinate Lodges to the purchase of jewels, or other mementoes, to be
preFented to distinguished brethren, as an exp1•ession of the esteem and confidence of the Lodge, is not in accordance with the true inte.rpretation of t~e
Constitution in reference to the disbursement of those funds; its practice is
therefore prohibited. [May, 1853.]
27. That a petition for initiation or membership, presented to a Lodge, im8istan~ Grand Secretary, who shall perform the duties of said office in

HESOLUTIONS

STANDING
OF

GRAND

THI:

LODGE OF

CALIFORNIA.

I. That each Lodge under this juriediction shall transmit a copy of its ByLaws to the Grand Secretary, to be filed in his office, after being approved by the
Grand Lodge. [May, 1851.]
2. That this Grand Lodge adopt, as the true meaning of the 1st Sec. of Art.
V., of the Constitution :-That the legal representative of any Lodge, represented in this Grand Lodge, shall cast the three votes to which the Lodge is entitled.
[May, 1851.]
·
3. That every subordinate Lodge, under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge,
be required to have read in open Lodge, under the direction of the Master, and
within the period of three months from the time of their reception, the printed
proceeding11 of the Grand Lodge : and that all other documents issued under
its authority and directed to its Pubordlnates, be read at the next stated meetini'
n.fter their reception. [As amended, May, 1858.]
.
4. That the Grand Secretary, when communicating to the reHpective Grand
Lodge~, with whom a correspondence is preserved, the result of an election ·of
officers of this Grand Lodge, wherein a change may have been mRde, shall accompany the same with the signatures of the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master,
and Grand Wardens, written with their own proper hands, and duly authenticated under the seal of this Grand Lo<lge, together with a request te each and
every such Grand Lodge, that they will hereafter, so often as by any change of
Grand officers it may become important, furnish this Grand Lodge with a similar
document. [May, 1851.]
•
5. That hereafter it shall be the duty of the Master of each subordinate
Lodge within this jurisdiction, immediately upon the death of a regular member
of the same, in good standing, to have a record of said death entered upon tho
Lodge Book of his Lodge, and report the same to the Grand Secretary, who
thereupon shall trn.nsmit to the Master of said Lodge a Grand Lodge Diploma,
filled up with the name of the deceased brother, free of expense, for the benefit
of his widow and orphans, or either. [May, 1851.]
6. That there is no appeal from .the decision of the Grand Maater in any
matter coming before him for his decision in Grand Lodge, and that the same
rule obtains with the Master of a subordinate Lodge over which he presides, or
from that of any other officer while presiding. (Nov. 1851.]
7. That no member of a Lodge can be reqmred to divulge his rnte on balloting for a candidate for the degrees of Masonry, or for membership, nor to
assign reasons for his vote, if known. [Nov.1851.)
8. That it shall be the duty of a Lodge to take cognizance of the conduct of
any brother or brethren not attached to any Lodge under this jurisdiction, on a
charge of unmaeonic conduct ; and reprimand, suspend, or expel him or them
from the rights and privileges of Masonry. [Nov. 1851.]
9. That no subordinate Lodge shall receive a petition for initiation, unless
the Lodge be fullv satisfied that the petitioner has been a resident within the
State twelve months, and within the jurisdiction of the Lodge three month11.
[Nov. 1851.]

[148]

369

[149J

I

370

STANDING RESOLUTIONS 01!' THE

[May,

~rt~;tely becomes the property of the Lodge, and can on no consideration be

mitte:awn[~ but ,a ballot, in ~11 cases, must be had on the report of the com-

28 · T ay, 1854.]
cate ~f hMt to all petitions for Dispensations, there shall be attached the certifipetitio a. aster of a chartered Lodge, that the Worshipful Master named in the
n is competent to confer the three degrees of Masonry. [May, 1854.]
re· That no Lodge under this jurisdiction shall ballot for conferring any
de 29
18~ .]e, or approve its records, at any other iime than a stated meeting. [May,

4

shaiiO~t ~at any subordinate Lodge recommendin'g a peti~ion for a new Lodg1:,

provide~ e:x~licitly that the brethren, whose petition they recommend, have

a smtable and safe Lodge room. [May, 1854.]
31 That the practice of dueling is repugnant to the principles of Frecmaso~
th~ J.Y· and in all cases where two brethren resort to this mode of settling
me~b isputes, it becomes the dut:y of the Lodge or Lodges of which they are
all there,. or under whose jurisdict10n they ma.y be, forthwith to eiq>el them from
Gra ; £1ghts and privileges of Masonry, subject to the confirmation of the
Mas~n· hdge; and no brother who may fall in a duel shall be buried with
ic onors. [May, 1854.]
dire32· That the Grand Secretary is hereby constituted Grand Librarian, and
as t:te& to take charie of the Grand Lodge Library, subject to such regulations
.e rand Lodge may hereafter prescribe. [May, 1864.]
bo33· .That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that the future establishment of
8
rdtMate Lodges should be restricted to cases of manifest propriety and neces, '1' ay, 1854.]
bl;4· hat it is the opinion of this Grand Lodge, that the use of Masonic etn·
ms upon sign-boards is unmasonic, and in open violation of the apirit of Freemasonr~ [May, 1854.]
·
·n 5· ~at this Grand Lodge recognizes as the only legitimate Masonic power
1
~W: Ork, the Grand Lodge of which Bro. Walworth is M. W. G. M., and the
~~bo~~l~ate Lodges under tlle jurisdiction thereof; and that this Grand Lodge
th~u 111 es, and declares to be illegal and spurious, all other bodies and members
reof1 Pretending to exercise J\Iasonic authority within the State of New York.
[M~y, 1854.]
.
L 36. That Masonic communication on the part of this Grand Lodge and the
· °:.ges subordinate thereto, be, and the same is hereby interdicted with all
1>0 t~es .~r persons, claiming or pretending to be Lodges or Masons, deriving
au on Y under or through such Illegal sources. [M_ay, 1854.]
37· That it is the Bense of this Grand Lodge, that all persons claiming to
1;.old ~asonic Lodges in the United .States or Its Territories, within the jurisdicGou ~ Grand Lodge of any State or Territory, with.out authority from such
ran
odge, are illegal and clandestine. [May, 1854.]
f 3s. That a certificate or other satisfactory evidence of having taken the
Grm~ tgree or degrees, the residence as required by the Constitution of our
:af
odge, with the examination provided for in Standing Resolution No.
1 •h ogether with the balloting, is all we deem necessary; provided, that in all
~~~ .]ases the petition shall take the same course as that for initiation. [May,

stty

J

L

4

~9. That it shall be the duty of subordinate Lodges under this juflsdiction to
?~\1.f~_the Lodges in their immediate vicinity of the uames of o.11 applicants for
1[nM
1 111 Ion l\nd membership. ThiB resolution to apply to city Lodges only.
ay, 1854.]
40. Tb~t the Lodges of this jurisdiction be and arc hereby permitted to
nmend their By-Laws, so ·as to have but one ballot for the three degrees. [May,
1864.]- A;nd that when objection is made before the initiation, passing or raising
~fa candidate, his petition shall be recommitted to a committee, and be subject
0 a second investigation. [Amendment, M"Y• 1856.]
. 4!: Tb.at each suhordinate Lodge shall have a book in which to record all
~~~~.]°ns, suspensions, expulsions, and names stricken from the roll. [May,

[150J

1858.]

GRAND LODGE or CALIFORNIA;

371

42. That the subordinate Lodges in this jurisdiction be, and are hereby
required to alter their By-Laws,· so as to bold but one stated meeting in each
'
month. [May, 1854.]
. 43. That it is the sen.sc of this Grand .Lodge, that the degrees conferred
without the lectures are mcomplete, and this Grand Lodge hereby requires the
lectures to be always given. [May, 1854.]
44. Rescinded, JJfay, 1856.
45. That the stern morality of Masonry is practicable, and that we pledge
the influence of this Grand Lodge in sustaining it, and recommend to all subordinate Lodges to see that their members exemplify the same in their lives and
conduct. [May, 1854.]
46. Rescinded, May, 1856.
47. That this Grand Lodge does not acknowledge the doctrine that a Grand
Master ~ay make Masons at sight, or at will, except in a regular Lodge, with
the unanimous consent of the members thereof present; and that, in its opinion,
Grand Masters possess no powers except those contained in the Constitutions of
Masonry, and those clearly and expressly delegated to them by their brethren.
[May, 1855.]
48. That in conformity with the nineteenth o~ the "Old Regulation~,'' which
decrees that " If a Grand Master should abuse his great power and render himself unworthy the obedience and submisRion of the Lodge, he shall be treated in
a manner to be agreed upon iu a new regulation," this Grand Lodge does now
agree upon and tnact this
·
NEw REGULATION.-The Grand Master of Masons for the State of California
may hereafter be proceeded agalnRt and tried for unmasonic conduct in the following manner :-Cha~ges may be presented against him to any Past Grand
~~as~er, by service, within this State, who is an affiliate~ Mason within this jur1s?1.ct101!, by not less th1m. five Masters of Louge~, which charges shall be in
wr1tmg, 1f proper to be written, or ore.I, if otherwise; ~nd it shall be the duty
of such Past Grand Master to transmit a copy of said charges, if written, or to
convey ~he Rllme personallY:, if -oral, to the accused, together with a notification
of the time and place of tr111l, at least twenty days before the day appointed
therefor, Anu the said Past Grand Master shall then summon four or more other
Past Grand Masters, who eball be members of some Lodge under this jurisdiction, (the tribunal to consist of not less than five,) to assemble with him at the
time and place so designated, where they shall hear and decide upon ihe case the sentence of a majority to be decisive : Provided, however, that for just reaEons a new trial may be granted.
All necessary traveling expenses of the members of such tribunal shall be
paid by the Grand Lodge. [May, 1855.]
49. The right (so called) to visit Masonically, is not an ab8olute right, but is a
favor which every lawful Mason in good standing is entitled to ask, and which
no Lodge should refuse unless good and sufficient objection to such admission is
made by a regular member ; in which case the Master, in his discretion, may ad·
mit or exclude the visitor. [As amendecl, May, 1857.]
50. That this Grand Lodge having recognizecl the principle that no one shall
be initiated into the mysteries of our Order, except in the Lodge nearest hi8
place of residence (unless by the proper permission) ; and having, by an established regulation, taken care to avoid infringing the jurisdictional rights of
others, wlll not tolerate that its 0\\' 11 be invaded ; and it is therefore ordered
that no Lodge, subordinate to the Grand Lodge of California, shall admit to
membership any person who, being at the time a resident of this State, has received, or claims to have received the degrees of Masonry from any source beyond the j urisdiction of this Grand Lodge, without proper permission from the
Lodge nearest his place of residence, until be shall have paid into the hands of
the Secretary of the Lodge to which he applies for membership, the full amount
charged by thit Lodge for conferring the degrees, less the sum paid by him to
the Lodge in which he received them. [As amended May, 1857.]
51. That this Grand Lodge recognizes no degree of Present or Past Master
conferred by any authority not holden under a legitimate Grand Lodge ; ac-

[151)

372

1!1'.I'ANDING RESOLUTIONS OF THB

[May,

knowledging only the Order of thl\t name as it exists in the cerernonies.attendinr
the installation of the Master elect of a chartered Lodge ; which Order shall be
conferred only by a convocation of Present or Past Masters, not less than three
in number, who have thus regularly received it. [May, 1855.]
·
52. That all Masonic communication between the Lodges and Masons under
the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, and those hailing from the jurisdiction of.
or acknowledging allegiance to the Grand Lodge of Hamburg, is hereby strictly
forbidden, so long as that body shall continue to me.into.in its flagrant violation
of the jurisdictional rights of the Grand Lodge of New York. [May, 1855.]
53. That a. Lodge under dispensation is but a. temporary and inchoate body,
and is not entitled to representation in the Grand Lodge; and that those who
work it do not forfeit their membership thereby in any other Lodge while it so
continues, but such membership is thereby suspended. [May, 1855.]
54. That the Grand Lodge of California does agree to and adopt the plan for
a National Confederation of Grand Lodges, as submitted by the National Masonic
Convention held in the city of Washington, D. C., on the third day of January,
1855 ; and will hold itself bound by the " Articles of Confederation" therein set
forth, so soon as twenty of the Grand Lodges in the United States shall have
signified· their assent thereto. [May, 1855.] ·
55. That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge, that a Lodge under charges can
not be tried except by the Grand Lodge. [May, 1855.]
56. That the Masters of the subordinate Lodges under this jurisdiction be
and are hereby required to have read in their respective Lodges, quarterly,
the Constitution, Regulations for Trials, and Standing Resolutions of this Grand
Lodge. [May, 1855.]
57. •That hereafter no other is authorized or permitted to confer degrees, or
preside in a subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction, than its officers, ·or one who
is a Past Master as defined in the Constitution of this Grand Lodge. [May, 1855.]
68. That the subordinate Lodges be and are hereby required to transmit to
the Grand Secretary, under seal, a list of the officers elected atljlually, immediately after their election. [May, 1855.]
59. '!'hat the subordinMe Lodges be and a.re hereby required to forward their
Annual Returns to the Grand Secretary immediately after the fourth· day of
March in ea.ch year. [May, 1855.]
.
60. That hereafter no subordinate Lodge under this jurisdiction shall suspend a member for a. df.finite period, but all suspensions shall simply be recorded
that the offender "be and is hereby suspended from all the rights. benefits, ·and
privileges of Masonry." [May, 1855.]
61. That in all cases of a restoration of a suspended Mason, I\ vote of two
thirds of the members present shall be requisite, and the procecdinr;s shall be
had at a meeting of which the members of the Lodge shall have had due notice.
[May, 1855.]
·
62. That the Lodges throughout this jurisdiction be.recommended to adopt, for
th• government of their respective bodie~, the code of By-Laws now presented
to this Grand Lodge; and that those Lodges which do so, be required to have
printed with them, 1uch portions of the Constitution and Standing Resolutions
of this Grand Lodge, (a condensed copy of which is herewith· presented,) as per·
tain to the government of subordinate Lodges. [May, 1856.]
63. That this Grand Lodge deems its obligatory upon all Me.sons to be contributin!l' members of ~ome Lodge; and that it is decidedlyunmasonic to reside
in the vicinity of a Lodge without either becoming a member thereof, or contributing regularly an amount equal to its customary dues. And should any
Me.son neglect or refuse. to comply with the fore~oing, he shall not b~ ?eemed
worthy of Me.sonic charity, and shall not be entitled to or be the recipient of,
any of' the rights, privileges or charities of any Lodge in this jurisdiction. Pro•The.Grand .Maste~ rules that the above re•olution ls not Intended to prevent, nor shall It be
eonstrued 80 as to prevent any Deputy Grand Lecturer, or other skillful Master Mason, from C<'ln·
ferrlng the degrees or performing any part.of the M&Eonlc ritual, in the presence and under tho
oupervlolon of an omcur of the Lodge entitled to pre•ide; which presiding oflloer shall, In ouch
cue, be 1eated In the East, either in, or at tho side of tho Ma•ter's chair. [May, 1866 J

1858.]

GRANl> tOl>GE OF CALIFORNIA.

373

vided however. that this rule may be relaxed by Lodges, when the inability to
comply with the foregoing is made manifest. [May, 1856, in lieu of 12, 44, a~~ 46.]

64. That hereafter, in issuing Dispensations to open new Lodges, the privilege
of receiving members by affiliation shall be granted. [May, 1856.]
65. That no appropriation of any money for increase of' salaries, or expenditures for the Grand Lodge other than those accruing for the sessions, shall be
made after the election of Grand Officers. [May, 1856,]
66. That the Subordinate Lodges be allowed to change their By-Laws so as
to confer the three degrees of Masonry.for the sum of not less than fifty dollars,
as provided in the Constitution as now amended. [May, 1856.]
67. That hereafter the construction of Section ~. of' Article BC, of the Constitution, shall be that ea.ch Lodge shall pay the sum of one dollar for each
member borne upon its roll. [May, 1856.]
68. (1.) That this Grand Lodge, in the most. solemn m.anner possib~e, desires to
impress upon the Subordinate Lodges the urgent necessity which exists that the
benefits and privileges of education, in its fullest and most perfect manner,
should be ufforded to the children of ull Masons, and more particularly to those
who by bereavement of parents are especially confided to our care and guardianship.
(2.) That each Subordinate Lodge, with its annual returns, shall forward to
the Grand Lodge a. statement of all orphans or children of Masons under its
care and protection ; particularly setting forth the measures being ta.ken to
supply them with the means of receiving a. proper•educe.tlon. [May, 1856.]
69.-(1.) That this Grand Lodge shall continue such a. standard of revenue
as experience will show shall afford an annual balance of at least $1,000 excess
of revenue onr expenditures ; and that said excess, more or less, be set aside
annually as an accumulating fund, for the erection of a 'Masonic He.II.
(2.) That this Grand Lodge elect, at each Annual Co~munice.tion, a. Board
of Trustees, consisting of three members of the. e.forese.1d Grand Body, wh.ose
duty it shall be to judiciouel,l'. invest. all rn~neys set aside for such e.ceumule.t!ng
fund at such interest as can be obtained without haze.rd ; and that the accruing
inte;est shall, as fa.et as possible, be added to the. principal, and similarly in·
vested.
(3.) That the members of this Board of Trustees shall severally execute and
file bonds approved by the Grand Master, Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer in the a.mount of $5,000, as a. security to this Grand Lodge that said funds
she.Ii not be imperilled or improperly inv.ested.
.
. . .
· (4.) That it shall be competent for this Gr.and Lodge at any time, 1n its J1;Jdg·
ment, to use said funds for the purpose designated, but for no other object.
[May,
. h'm t h'1s Juris
. . d'IC t'ion .wh'IC h sha11 receive
.
70. 1856.]
That any Lodge wit
a bro ther
into membership without a. certificate of freedom from Indebtedness to the Lodge
of which he was le.st a. member, shall become responsible to said Lodge for any
dues it may have age.inst him. [May, 1856.],
.
•
71. Tho.t the Subordinate Lodges be required to mstruct one of their ~epre·
sente.tives hereafter to remain in attendance upon the Grand Lodge until the
close of its Communications. [May, 1857.]
72. That the "Side Degrees," S? called, form no part of l~git~me.te Masonry,
and the conferring them hereafter m Masonic Lodge rooms is discountenanced
by this Grand Lodge. [May, 1858.]
73. That it is a necessary and becoming duty of the office!s ~nd memb~rs of
this Grand Body to diminish the measure of our annual pubhce.t1ons, and m all
proper matters to exercise a disposition to practice a rigid economy. [May, 1858.]
74 That the Grand Lodge of Canada, which was formed at the city of Hamilton, ·on the tenth day of October, 1855, be and is hereby recognized by this
Grand Lodge. [May, 1858.]
.
.
. .
,
75. That hereafter, all notices of expuls10n, suspens10n, str1kmg lr?m t~e
roll, and reinstatement, shall be sent to the Grand Se~retary, to be .by h1!Il die·
semine.ted among the Lodges in the same manner as 1e now prescribed ID the

20

ll53l

l152)

\

874

STANDING RESOLUTIONS OF THE

[May,

14th section of Art. X. of the Constitution, relative to notices of rejection for
initiation. [May, 1858.]
76. That hereafter all petitioners for a Dispensation, who are members of
Lodges within this juriFdiction, be required to state in their petition the names
and numbers of the respective Lodges to which they last belonged, and to accompany the same with certificates from the Secretaries thereof that they are
free from all indebtedness thereto. [May, 1858.]
77. That any member of a Lodge which has surrendered its Charter, who was
in good standing at the time of such surrender, is entitled to a certificate to that
effect ; and that the Grand Secretary be authorized to isrne such certificates.
[May, 1858.]
78. That hereafter no Lodge shall admit a brother to membership until he
shall have deposited with the Secretary his demit from the Lodge of which he
was last a member, or shall have presented in writing, to be filed with the Secretary. good and sufficient reasons for not being enabled so to do. [May, 1858.)

1858.]

3i5

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOltNIA.

RETURNS
0 F

THE

SUBORDINATE LODGES
UNDER TH~J JURISDICTION OF

THE GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
.A..

L-

5959_

California Lodge, No. 1.
!!!nu Franchco, !San Francisco County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each Month.
OFFICERS 1

Henry F. Williams, Wor. lrl111Jter,
Benj. H. Freeman, Sen. Warden,
William H. Lyon, Jun. Warden,
Eli Cook, Treasurer,
E.W. Bourne, Secretary,
John F. Swift, Sen. Deacon,

A. D. Piper, Jun. Deacon.
A. J. Kellogg, Marshal,
Frank Eastman, l St
d
D. Kendrick,
f eioar s.
0. de Villarson, Organilfl,
Lewis Peck, 'l'yler.
Post 1Unste1·• 1

P. A. Brinsmade,
R. F. Knott, P. J. G. W.

U. E. Cole, P. S. G. W.
Alex. G. Abell, G. Sec.

J. D. Steve!lton, P. G. i'rl.
Lewis Peck,
L. Steinhart.

lIAS'rER lIASONS:

Abraham, J.
Armstrong, E. J.
Asliley, S. J.
Bacon, Jacob
Baker, G. W.
Barry, T. A.
Beale, E. I<'.
Blackman, C. H.
Blackman, O. P.
Bostwick, J. D.
Boyd, Thomas
Braunan, John
Brasseur, Jules
Brenham, C. J.
Brown, Chas.
Bryeu, W.J.
Burke, M. J,

Cameron, John
Classen, J.M.
Cleary, T. P.
Clough, Jos.
Crittenden, A. P.
Crocker, G. H.
Cross, Osborn
Dall, J. H.
Davis, I. E.
Decker, Jacob
Derby, S. J.
De Vries, Thos.
De Woody, T. J.
Donaltlson, T. P.
Douglass, D. F. .
Elliot, Gardner
Engert, A. F. C.

Fair, W. D.
Felt, J. J.
Fernald, D. L.
Field, S. C.
l<'indla, Jas.
Fleishman, Israel
Foster, William
Friedlander, A.
Game, M, F.
Gardner, Phineas
Gayle, A. Il.
Gerke, Henry
Gerry, S. R.
Gilmor, J. W. A.
Gray, H. M.
Greene, William
Haggett, Tho~.

(155]

ll54I

I

Hann, T. n.
Harrison, Geo. L. ·
Hawk, Louis
Haynes, T. ·J.
Reeser, William
Hillard, B. F.
Hodge, J. G.
Hoff, John
Hoffman, Ogden
Hoffnier, William
Howe, William
Ickelheimer, H.
Justh, Emanuel
Keith, W. H.
Kimball, M. C.
King, Leopold
King, Marcu~

376

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

Kuh, Leopold
Morse, E. E.
Lamb, E.G.
Murphy, N. S.
Laurence!, H.
Myers, M. H.
Lawrence, H. H. McClure. A. T.
Leese, J. P.
McKenzie, Wm.
Leitch, I. H.
McMahon, 'l'hos.
Lemml\n, Thoe.
i~eal, W. W.
Letter, Jacob
Noyes, G. P.
Linen, James
Oldfield, W. C.
Maies, C. W.
Oldham. T. S.
Martin, M. S.
Overn, George
Page, R. C.
Middleton. John
Mikkelson, R.
Parent, 0. L.
Miller, J. F.
Pntten, B. H.
Miller, W. J.
Patten, W. H.
Milling, Wi.lliam
Paul, A. B.
Miro, H. E.
Payne, Theo.
Monroe, J. A.
Phinney, Arthur
Montagnie, J. de la Plum, 0. M.
Moore, W. IT.
Poute, John

Potter, T. T.
Pratt, James
Preston, R. J.
Reynolds, Wm.
Rosenstock, M.
Saulmau, A.
S11.wyer, E. A.
Scammon, C. M.
Selover, A. A.
Shaw, S. W.
Shaw, Tobias
Shiels, William
Smith, E.W.
Smith, H. S.
Smith, J. T.
Southgate, J . J.
Strahle, C. G. ·
Sullivan, E. L.
Suskind, Ernest

[May,

Sutton, 0. P.
Thompson, Lucius
Tubbs, Hiram
Tucker, J. W.
Unger, Adolph
Uznay, C.
Van Buskirk, H. K.
Ward, I. M.
Welton, M.
White, J. W.
Wightman, John
Wigmore, John
Wilder, L. I.
Williams, J. S.
Williams, W. A.
Wilson, C. L.
Wood, W. B.
Wright, G. S.-163.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Colbourn, Richard Gove, A. W.
Eastlanrl, J. G.
Gray, R. B.
Flint, W. C.
Hall, E. Jr.
George, H. A.
Haynes, J. W.
Goldsmith, Jos.

Hildreth, J. D.
Hoyt, Richard
Jolfroy, Lorenzo
Melin, Charles

Pollard, Aaron
Relay, J. H.
Simpson, J. L.
Wilson, E. A.-17.

ENTERED APPRE:-!TICKS:

Baker, Henry
Blood, J. H.
Briggs, Edgar
Briggs, W. H.
Brown, Archibald
Brown, H. S.
Cazneau, T. N.
Coughlin, J. M.

Ewer, F. C.
Kohler, J. J.
l<'leming, J. R.
Ladd, J . W.
Gilbert, G. S.
Lainbeer, Jno.
Goldsmith, W. E. Musgrove, J, D.
Hl\rnsliorough,W.B. Peabody, A. W.
Ingram, J.
Pfeifer, W. A.
Janes, J. L.
Phillips. S. S.
Kittrell, J. R.
Rabe, William

Root, S. E.
Sawyer, A. F.
8terling, J. F.
Taylor, J . M.
Thrall, H. H.
Wa8serman, S.
Whitney, Jae. Jr.
Young, J. H.-32.

WITIIDRAWN:

Burke, D. H.
Cook, S. M.
Creigh, J. D.
Engel, Moritz
Goldstein, M.

Killaly, R. G.
Mann, W. D.
Molitor, A. P.
O'Bryon, J. F.
Peaslee, C.

Pulvermacher, F .
Revalk, J.
Reynolds. W. T.
Sav1\ge, 0. S.

Stark, James
Vail,J.F.
Wegener, F. 0.
Williams, J. W.-18.

1858.]

Western Star Lodge, No. 2.
Sh1tst1t, ShMtll County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICEH.S1

Fitton, James
Homer, Chas.
Hudson, G. A.

Il. A. Curtiss, Secretary,

J. A. Raymond, Wor. M!Uter,
H. H. Shum~tou, Sen. Warden,
S. R. Merrill, Jun. Wa·rden,
A. B. Brown, Treasurer,

D. P. Bystle, Sr:n. Deaum,
J. W. Pierson, Jun. Deacon,
Robert Berry, Tyler.
Pnst lllnstcrs 1

J. A.Raymond, P.D.G.M.

Whiting G. West,

J. Isaacs.

MASTER MASONS:

Baker, W. H.
Dunn, D. H.
Bloom, H.
Farquhar, G. C.
Boch, R.
Farrington, N. C.
Brew!lr, J. W,
Forbes, G. D.
Brickford. W. H. Fuller, A. F.
Brownell, H.
Goldstone, Chas.
Channel, B. F.
Greathouse, G. L.
Chapman, G. L.
Hanson, S11.muel
Chappel, J. N.
Hickey, D. B.
Cheesbro, E. F.
Hodge, J.
Cohn, P.
Holmes, J . L.
Crocker, E. F.
Johnson, H.
Cushing, John
Johnson, J.
Daingerfield, W. P. Kelley, C. P.
Kelton, E. A.
Davis, M. C.
Dobrouski, A.
Lander, H.

Lavery, J. D.
Scott, J. V.
Mosbach, A. H.
Seeleg, S.
McAulitf, D.
Seely, George
Newman, T. A.
. Selden. E. C.
Norton, J. H.
Skeen, W. E.
Nunnally, W. A. Staples, Levi
Olendorl', W. D.
Stewart, W. W.
Parker, William
Taft, W. H.
Parkinson, G. W. Tower, L. H.
Pennington, J. T. Tull, J , W.
Potter, I. B.
Van Vatzer~ J.M.
Robertson, T. J.
Van Wie, A. J.
Roden, J.E.
Wade, J.C.
Roop, I.·
Westcott, S. B.
Ryan, J.
Wilson, G. A.
l:lcammon, G. E.
Wilson, W.-74.

}'EL LOW CRAFTS:

Hornbeck, A.

Blake, J.C.

Row)and, Wm.

Sewall, s. B.-4.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Cicel, J.B.

De Witt, J. M.-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Allen, W. l\f.
Boxton, Charles
Brickey, R. W.
Bryce, Wm.
Chandler, 1''. B.

Conyer, P. F.
Glenn, J. T.
Hart, Thos.
Jackson, J . w.
Johnston, W. E.

Lull, H. H.
Myrick, M. H.
Nici, B.
Owens, Alex.

Robbins, E.
Ross, George
Wiener, J.
Wilson, H. C.-18.

STRICKl!:N FRO:ll ROLL }'OR NOX-PAYMKNT Oll' DUES:

Moore, Joseph.-1

STRICKEN FR0'.11 ROLL FOR NON-PAYMKNT OF DUES :

Addison, J; E.
Benham, Calhoun
Delany, C. McC.

377

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Olds, W. B.
Paster, S. E.
Phillips, Jae.

DIJ!:D:

Sanders, B. C.
Scooffy, P. M.-11.

Goodin, A.-1.

SUSPENDED:

Preston, 0. J.-1.
EXPEf,LED:

Brainerd, C. F ....:.1.

Teh(ma Lodg~, No. 3.

DIED:

S1tertunento, Sncram.ento County.

Watson, John S.

Wilson, L. T.-2.

Stated Meetin[Js, first Monday in each month.
OFFICERS:

A. T. Nelson, Wor. M1U1ter,
Geo. H. Cartter, Sen. Warden,
R. H. Blossom, Jun. Warden,
J. G. Brewton, 'Jlreiuurer,

L156l

John A. Tutt, Secraary,
James F. Kingsley, Sen. Deacon,
T. A. Tal be1·t, Jun. Deacon,
0. D. Chafee, 'I'yler.

[157]

378

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

0. D. Chafee,
John F. Morse,

John A. Tutt, P. G.IM.
T. A. Thomas,P. D. G. M.

A. T. Nelson,
Geo. H. Cartter.

MASTER MASONS:

Aurich, A.
Baggs, Isaac
Bean, Enos 8.
Beckley, L. R.
Bell, George H.
Bennett, A. A.
Bowles, Jas. S.
Brandes, James
Browner, G. F.
Cone, J. S.
Cornell, C. M.
Culver, J. H.
Davis, J. Z.
Dorn, M.
Farley, Chn.rles
Fisher, H. C.
Foley, J. J.

Gamble, J.
Gober, W. R.
Gray, B. S.
Greenebaum, A.
Greenhood, Wm.
Harrington, C. C.
Hoffman, S.
Hotchkiss, F. S.
Humphreys, E.
Johnson, J. Neely
Kyburg, Samuel
Levy, S. A.
Lisso, M.
Marks, Morris
llforzen, Joseph
Merriam, G. B.

Montgomery, G.E.
Morton, T. M.
Muller, John
McCarty, Wm.
McDonald, R.H.
McHesser, A.
Painter, A. J.
Peabody, Thos. J.
Phillips, G. S.
Pike, B. F.
Poppe, Bernard
Price, W. W.
Pugh, J. W.
Ratcliffe, W. M.
Rich, H. M.
Rush, J no. A.

Ryau, John
Sherwood, S. M.
Smith, Chas. H.
Stevenson, J. M.
Stovall, W. W.
Strauss. Louis
Taber, \villiam
Taylor, Jno. N.
Weinrich t, Henry
Wethers, Benj. F.
Wctzlar, Julius
Wheeler, 0. C.
White, John
Whittenberry, WI:J.
Wisart, F. H.
Young, O. H.-75.

B79

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Pnst Mnsters 1

MASTER MASONS:

Agnew, J. D.
Bedford. T.
Davis, Jos. A.
Duff, Ti\91>.
Estill, A. H.
Farmer, Thos.
Harvie, F. C.

Henry, James
Kinstry, Thos.
Leslie, Lyma.n
Miner, G. W.
McDonald, D. F.
Neat, .John

Nurse, W. B.
Pollock, J as.
Robinson, B.
Ruger, John
Stiles, A. L.
Stone, J.C.

Spencer, C.
Thompson, Miron
Toppan, R. S.
Vaughn, S.
Von Pfister, E. H.
Wright, John-38.

FELLOW CllAFT:

Barry, J.-1.
ENTERED

A~PRENTICE:

Scoby, J. W.-1.
STRICKEN FROM ROLL }'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Graham, John

Norman, R. B.-2.
DIED:

Holliday, R. M.-1.

}'ELLOW CllAFTS:

Cantwell, W.R.

Hoyt, J. P.-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Aula, V.
Bowne, C.H.
Gunn, G. W.

Hastings, L. W.
Henning, F. C.
l\Iarselas, G. W.

Borrodaile, Geo.
Danielson, C. L.
Flanagan, T. B.
George, Jacob
Grant, J. D.

Hagan, Lewis
Hull, Joseph
Kalkman, Philip
McKune, J. H.

Nichol~, C. P.

Russell, J. M.

Stockfl.esh, T.
Torbit, C. J.-10.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

WITIIDRA WN:

Ordry, William
Perdue, T. W.
Polhemus, J. L.
Quinlin, W.

San Francisco Lodge, No. 7.
_ Snn FrnnelSClo, Snn Frnnelseo County.

Rhodes, J.P.
Somes, G. W.
Tracy, E.W.
Whitlock, G.'-17.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL }'Oil NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Harrison, A. C.-1.
lJIED:

OFFICERS•

A. Hollub, Wor. MaBter,
J.H. Stoutenborough,Sen. Deacon,
John Wade, Sen. Warden,
William Canham, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Ashton, Jun. Warden,
A. Wasserman, MarBhal,
James Ballentine, TreaBurer,
J. G. Drube, l Stewards
J. S. Thompson, Seeretary,
P. J, Evans, f
'
.
Lewis Peck, (of California, No. 1,) Tyler.
Pnst Masters 1

Latta, Thomas-I.

A. Hollub, P.S.G. JV.

I

Addison Martin, G. TreaB.

Honorary l'lletnber 1

A. C. Labatt.
MASTER MASONS:

Benicia Lodge, No. 5.
Benlcln, Solnno County.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday •of or next preceding Pull Moou.
OFFICERS:

Wm. S. Wells, Wor. Master,
H.B. Hawkins, Sen. Warden,
W. J. Tustin, Jun. Warden,
John J. Barry, Treasurer,
H. S. Soanes, Secretary,

lfimothy Sag~, Sen. Deacon,
S. 8. Swasey, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. J. French, Marshal,
A, P. Ryerson, l Stewards.
George Poor, f
Luther Wright, Tyler.

Anderson, Chas.
Doyle, Hugh
Andrews, William Dyer, Wm. U.
Gettlcson, H.
Atkinson, J. H.
Brown, F.C.
Gibbs, John
Byrues, T. E.
Glenn, Thos.
Harris, Thos.
Cabaniss, J.C.
Callan Thomas
Helbing, A.
Cast.Je, J. G.
Hunter, W. H.
Clement, Jos.
Jacobi,·D.
Cochrane, R.
Jamison, M.
Collins, S. J.
Johnston, Jas.
Craine, William
Mahan, F. J.
Curry, Samuel
Mersich, M.
Degroote, L. A.
Mott, P. D.
·Donahue, James
Myers, H.

Past ]laster& 1

S. K. Nurse,

Wm. S. Wells,

(1581

John M. Neville.

McCabe, A. J,
McCarthy,ft.].
McKenzie, Jno.
McNeill, D.
Newhouse, H.
Nolting, W. H.
Parrish, S. J.
Pierce, Nelson
Porter, Horace
Pottorff, W. H.
Rheinstein, L.
Roberts, G. G.
Ruje. R. A.
Simon, U.
Simpson, Jas.

Simson, Aaron
Sullock, S. S.
Thain, J, N.
Treanor, Ja~.
Urie, Jas.
Wallact>, Thos.
Wa~hburn, J. K.
Welte, A.
Whitn~y. W. J.
Wilson, J. L.
Winkle, Henry
Woods, R.E.
Woolavn, John
Yates, Geo. E.-71.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Johnston, .John

Kowalski, S. H.

[159]

Luney,.P.-s, .

Sso

RETURNS OF SUBOR1>INATE tOl>GE!l TO THE

[May,

1858.]

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hudson, M. B.

Bowen, G. C.

Marysville Lodge, No. 9.

McNu.lly, P.-4.

Mayers, M.

lllarya'Vllle, Yuba County.

WITHDRAWN:

Green, W. A.
Heiniberg, B.

Moss, D. H. D.
Papy, J. J.

Richardson, Wm.
Scott, John

Solomon, A.
Stern, D.-8.

STRICKEN FRO:ll ROLL FOR NON-PJ.YME?\T OF nm:s:

Gorham, W. R.
Mu.rshu.11, C. E.

Carter, A.
Frizell, Jas.

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Moeller, A. D.

O'Connell, A. F.-6.

DIED:

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

A. P. Barnes, Wor. Ma81~,
C. A. Hu.thwell, Sen. Warden,
E. Snowhite, Jun. Warden,
C. E. Filkins, Tream.r~.

Wm. Robinson, Secretary,
Chas. Andres, Sen. Deacoo,
Ju.cob Meyers, Jun. Deacon,
G. S. Peirson, fy~.
Paet lllnotera 1

Dukes,_M. (E. A.)--1.
George Fu.gg,

G. S. Peirson,

Wm. T. Fonda.

MASTER MASONS:

"Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8.
Sonora., Tuolumne County.

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Hugh G. Platt, Wor. Mast~,
R. R. Balls, Sen. Wa.rden,
Geo. Seckel, Jun. Warden,
W.W. Traylor, 'l'reasurer,
Chu.8. B. Rutherford, Secretary,

Bu.ll, A.
Blackman, Hy.
Cu.rpied, Frank
Cu.rr, J.E.
Covillu.ud, Chu.s.
Deu.rdorf, J. R.
Eu.ton, Iru. A.
Estell, A. H.
Goodwin, J. O.
Hu.ke, F. H.
Linhill, J. A.

Hugh G. Pla.tt,

Chu.s. M. Radcliff, P. G. M.

W. W. Traylor.

MASTER MASONS:

Amey, C. B.
Anderson, J. M.
Bell, James
Calaway, O. P.
Clu.pp, I. J.
Clark, 'l'erry
Classen, R.
Colbre.ith,, J. C.
Cooper, W. F.
Corker, David
Crawford, Tho@.
Dodge, C. F.

Doore, S. B.
Evans, G. S.
Pray, F. B.
Green, Alonzo
Greenwood, Otis
Hu.le, Matthew
Hu.ll, P. S.
Hutton, J. McD.
Jamison, A. H.
Jamison, D. A.
Johnson, C.
Johnson, P . F.

Dyer, Manly ·
Ruffin, C.H.

Sbu.w, Charles

Franklin, J. J.

Jasper, F. H.

Soule, H. S.
Knoekin, A.
Stewart, J. M. •
Linoberg, E.
Stoker, J. R.
Mu.rshu.ll, B. F.
Sullivan, R. F.
Meyer, Peter
MclJollough, I. N. Tu.sh, Ise.u.c
Tuttle,
A. H. H.
McLP.u.n, Geo.
Vu.n Ilarlinger, J .
Phillips, S. G.
Wells, B.
Rey, W. B.
Wilson, A. C. J.
Sedgwick, Jno.
Wolf, Henry
Seivers, H.
Yu.ney, I. P.-59.
Selling, P.
Sherman, I. H.

Smith, Mix.-1.
Lowrey, John.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Kraft, Chas.
Miles, S. M.

Cu.dy, Mills

Hu.kens, Louis

San Jose Lo:ige, No. 10.
San Jose, Santa Clara County.

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

Meyer, Moses-4.

Henry J. Haskell, Wor. Ma&ter,
Chu.s. ~'.Willey, Sen. Warden,
Du.n'l J. Porter, Jun. Warden,
Josiah Belden, Treamr~,

Collins, William
Delahay, J.B.

Doore, Fred.
Fish, J.B.

Henry, B. M.
Keeler, G. W. -8.

DIED:

Coats,. Thome.•.

Pinney, W. T.

[160]

Wm. R. Du.vis, Secretary.
J. Y. Brow11, Sen. Deacon,
Thos. Jodley, Jun. Deacon,
F. E. :aartlett, fy~.
Pruit lllnst:ers 1

WITHDRAWN :

Burns, P.H.
Caldwell, T.

McDaniel, R. H.-3.

DIED:

OFFICERS :

Wolcott, 0.-5.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Jones, T. S.

Randle, P. W.-3.

!ITRICKEN FROM ROLL FOlt NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Wells, N. W.

Thodoresco, J. S.
Thompson, C. M.
Tilden, C. N.
Totman, J. R.
Tucker, John
Warfield, S. B.
Webster, J. L.
Wheeler, A.
Winans, Stephen
Zea, D. F.-51.

ENTERED APPRENTICE.

Brett, J. R.

Pnst lllnstcrs 1

Ruth, John
Scheussler, A.
Sherwood, J. W.
Simmerly, Samuel
Simpkins, C. H.
Simpson, Ju.s.
Smith, J. G.
Smith, S. B.
Summers, H. B.
Teegarden, Eli

FELLOW CRAFT:

F. A. Pra.ssu., Sen. Deacon,
M. Hanover, Jun. Deacon.
Jas. E. Edmiston, Marshal, ·
C. J u.cques, l Stewards.
R. Comer, f
W. A. Burt, 'l'yl~.

Lowrey, G. W.
Moore, Ju.mes
McCarty, J. T.
McQuin, J. T.
U'Hu.nlan, R. T.
Pu.rent, J.C.
Peck, E. S.
Peirson, 0. H.
Pixley, Seymour
Rice, D. W. C.

Thomas, Lewi~3.

W. H. Howard, P. G. Jf. Benj. Cory,

John B. Hewson,

H. C. Melone.

MASTER MASOllS:

Alcese, Andrew
Auzerais, Edw.

21

Barrows, J . F.
Bassham, W.R.

Ba@sler, Jos.
Brownshield, Hy.

[161]

Buckner. R. B.
Byers, Robert

382

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

Clayton, Jas. A.
Delmo'nlel, A.
Dresser, T. W.
Easley, P. C.
Fallou, Thomas
Guerrez, J. D.
Hancock, J. T.
Hardy, Mark
Henning, J. P.
Hen8ley, S. J.
Jacobson, S.

Johnson, T. D.
Kearney, Jas.
Kibbe, T. R.
Kotinger, J. W.
Le.bell, M.
Lazeras, L.
Levy, Jacob
Lewis, Frank
Miller, Jaines
Minor, P.O.
Murphy, W. A.

[May,

1858.]

McTarnaho.n, F.
Smith, H. C.
Packwood, S. F.
Thomas, A. B.
Papson, Wm.
Van Cannegan, P.
Peck, A. W.
Warthan, A.G.
Peck, George
Wilburn, T. J.
Prevost, Louis
Wilks, R. P.
Price, Jno. R.
Williams, Marcus
Putney, C. M.
Wilson, Thomas
Reddick. John
Winn,A.M.
Reed, Elliott
Wise. A.
Schellenberger, M. Yoell, J. A..-64.

Nevada Lodge, No. 13.
Nevada, Nevada County,

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Thomas P. Hawley, Wor• .MaAter,
A. B. Swan, Sen. D8(W)n,
Wm. L. Phillips, Sen. Warden,
H. M. Kilander, Jun. Deacon,
James Holmes, Jun. Warden,
J. H. Helm, Marshal,
I. Williamson, Treasurer,
William Smith, } St
d
J. F. Rudolph, Secretary,
T. Ellard Beans,
ewar 8'
F. Burmeister, (of E. K. Kam Lodge, No. 72,) 'Jlykr.

FELLOW CRAFT:

McCutcbeon, Wm.-1.

Pnst MB11ters 1

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Hester, W. T.
Hines, William
Ingersoll, T. J.

Bostick, L. C.
Healey, C. T.
Healey, L.B.

Kendall, E. W.
Langwort.h, L.B.
Riggs, Silas

I. Williamson,

Shoemaker, W. B.
Williams, J . M.-11.

Lewis, Jackson
Matthews, Wm.

Ryland, C. T.

W. G. Alban,

Dawley, I . N.
Asher, Wm. C.
Dillon, T. E.
Block, A.
Doyle, Jos.
Blythe, J. F.
Dunn, T. O.
Boring, S. W.
Earley, C. D.
Duckwell, E.
Burton, E. F.
Edwards, P. N.
Caldwell, J. I.
Freeman, F.
Caldwell, Wallace Furth, S.
HaRtings, J. W.
Caswell, T. H.
Hllthaway, J. V.
Chapman, A.
Hill. C. W.
Conyers, B. L.
Coombs, Hezekiah Holmes, E . K.
Kilbourn, G. O.
Crenshaw. J. T.
Dawley, H. L.

Watson, O. P ...;..6.

DIED:

McKinney, F. S.-1.

Yount Lodge, No. 12.
Napa City, Nnpn County.

Brown, J. S.

OFFICERS•

Robert Crouch, Secretary.
J. M. Wilson, Sen. Dw;<m,
E. S. Chesebro, Jun. Deacon,
C. N. Souther, 'Jlykr.

John II. Seawell,

,Jos. M. Dudley.

MAS'rER MASONd :

Alker, Thomas
Allen, C.H.
Burroughs, L. C.
Capell. Jos. S.
Chopson, Thomas
Clarke, Charles
Earl, Thomas

Fitch, Chas. H.
Goodrich, G. G.
Goodrich, S. D.
Grimes, Brice
Grout. Daniel
Horrell, J. J.
Hutchinson, J.P.

Kilburn, R. L.
Lawley, John
Lefferts, James
Morse, Newton
Mount, Joseph
McClellen, M. T.

Rosenbaum, S.
Stillwap:on, W. W.
Smith, Recs
Spencer, Dwight
Tucker, S.S.
Vines, Bartlett-36.

Wood, John S.-:Z.

ENTERED Al'PRENl'ICES:

Edgerton, Henry

Hardin, R. ·s.

Nichols. J. l\I.

Parks, D. B.-4.

Maker, George
Olin, A. S.

Bostwick, H. A.
Bunnell, D. D.
Calkins, M. D.
Carman, B. R.

Crane, D. A.
Drynen, John
Elliott, G. M.
Hudson, J. F.

Holliday, W. II.

Ford, 0. G.

McKimmey, N.-2.
DIED:

McLeod, Geo.-1.

(162),

Whartenby, J as.-7.

wrrllDRAWN :

"

Lamb, Alex.
Latta, s. N.
·Palmer, G. W.
Ritter, William

Rosenheim, Aaron
Skeggs, E.
•rweed, C. A.
Webber, John-16.

STRICKEN' FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT Ol' DUES:

BroadduR. J. L.

Elmore, D. T.

Hall, C. R.

Perry, R. H.-4.

DIED:

Alston, A. J. (F. C.)

Endicott, \V. H.-2.

--- .,,.
Temple Lodge, No. 14.
Sonoma, Sonoma County.

Rupe, S. H.-4.

SUSPEND~D:

Greenebaum, M.

Redfearn, George
Sargent, A. ~.

/:Jtated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each month.

WITHDRAWN:

Drown, J.E.

Wilson, A. B.-2.

· Foster, B. Ii'.
Heuley, R.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Adams, Robert S.

Overton, C. T.
Pearson, Thomas
Perry, S. R.
Peteu, F. W.
Plumhoft', W.
Reed, W. H .
Rowell. L . .It.
Stewart, W. 1iI.
Stiefel, L .
Tucker, Allen
Turner, G. E.
Van Hagan, J.B.
Whitney, J. R.-64.

EN'.rERED APPRENTICES :

Past Masters 1

F. B. Gilmore,

Knox, W. J.
Lillard, Garlflnd
Lindsay, R. L.
Maltman, C. S.
Maltman, Wm.
Marsh, M. L.
Meredith, Henry
Miller. F. R.
Mills, H. A.
Morrison, W. P.
McMurray, G. T.
Nichols, 8ainuel
Niles, A. C.

}'ELLOW CRAFTS :

Stated Meetings, .first Saturday in each month.
Jos. M. Dudley, Wor. .Master,
A. F, Robbers, Sen. Warden,
Chas. W. Piasa, Jun. Warden,
Robert West, Tre<UUrer,

Thomas P. Hawley.

MASTER MASONS:

WITHDRAWN:

Bailey, Geo. W.
Laurence!, H.

383

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

OFFICERS1

William Burris, &n. Dw;on,
Peter Campbell, Jun. Deacon,
William Copeland, } St
iU
SamuP-1 Orr,
ewar '
John Neeb, 'l'g"ler.

Jonas S. WoodR, Wor. Master,
Stephen Aker~, Sen. Warden,
A. (.). McDonald, Jun. Warden,
H. Bruns, TuaAurer,
Wm. Cassebohm, Secretary,

LHi3J

'

384

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

Post Mostcn 1

Israel Brockman,

William Ross,

EX VENERABLE MAITRES:

Jonas S. Woods.

Joseph Haine,

MASTER MASOllS:

Beasley, Jesse
Berggren, J . F.
Bunch Sol. D.

Kamp, H. L.
.May, John
Munday, James

0' Farrell, Jasper Rupe, David C.
Poppe, Julius A. Williams, Jos.-22.

FET.LOW CRAFTS:

Beck, Robert

Fitch, Fred.

Le Valle, H.-3.

F. T. Teclaw.
MAlTRE-llA(/ONS:

Alexandre. Elie
Benecki, Michel
Beraud, Louis
Blum, Jacob

· Bresse, Louis
Gazan, Amie
Bruggeman, J. H. Harris, A. H.
Casse, Fram;ois
Kellenberger, J.
Engels, E.

Fayard, F. C.
Kiiner, J.

Lecot, P. M.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Bihler, William

Grayson,_Daniel-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Coleman, Chas.
McNab, H. D.

Pendegrass, J . C.

Selling, John

Tate, T. H.-5.

385

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Portois, Pierre
Thierry, Chri.rles
Zakresky, Alex.-26.

COMPAGNONS:

Pinchard, J. B.

Ville.cque, Eugene
-5.

APPRENTICES :

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Benitz, William
Boggs, Wm. M.
Horne, Amos A.

Jenks, J. H.
Kelsey, Samuel
Neville, Jos. N.

Peabody, E.T.
Ray, John
Remick, A. B.

Smith, Jason
Warder, R. R.-11.

DIED:

Fournier, A.

Fournier, C.

Morin, Pierre

Russ, J.-4.

RETRAITES:

Driard, Sosthene
Moppe, Henri

Quayne, P.

Vessaert, A.

Zwicky, G.-5.

RAYE POUR NON-PAYMENT DE QUOTISATION:

Cook, Martin E.-1.

Berthelot, J.-1.
DECEDE:

Thomas, Simon-1.

Eureka Lodge, No. 16.
Auburn, Pincer County.

Stated Meetings, third Monday in each month..
OFFJCERS1

AL P. H. Love, Wor. Master,
Simon Davidson, Sen. Wardtn,
•Jacob Feldberg, Jun. Warden,
S. Lubeck, Prearurer,

Hiram R. Hawkins, Secretary,
J . R. Crandall, Sen. Deacon,
E. G. Smith, Jun. Deacon,
Victor Jones, Tyler.
Past l'lloaters 1

J. R. Crandall, P. S. G. W.

H. R. Hawkins,

M. Hyneman.

Boirgs, Jno. C.
Holmes, H. T.

Johnson, W. A.
Marshall, Levin

DownlevUle, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, Tue11day of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

MASTER MASONS:

Anderson, James
Barrett, S. E.

Mountain Shade Lodge, No. 18.

Perkins, W. K.
.
Thomas, P. W.-17.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Sweet, S. S.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

:Mitchell, C. H.-1.

John L. Van Dyke, Wor. Mruter,
Samuel W. Langton. Sen. Warden,
Frank M. Pl'octor, Jun. Warden,
Christian Reis, Treasurer,

Alex. T. Langton, Secretary,
Milton J. Goodfellow, Sen. Deaoon,
Peter Thatcher, Jut1. Deacon,
John M. Barrett, Tyler.

Post lllnater• 1

Lewis Reynolds,

Henry G. Brown.
MASTER MASONS:

Loge La Parfaite Union, No. 17.
Son .Francl11Co, Comptc de San Fronelsco.

Reunion Ordinaire, le premier Vend'fedi de chaque mois.
LES OFFJCIERS:

Jean Branger, 2de Dia,cre,
Joseph Haine, Venirable Maitre,
Constant Hubert, l er Surveill.ant,
Jean Mibielle, Orateur,
Bernard Dennery, 2de Surveill,ant,
B1•rtrand Domec, Marichak,
Henri Lucke, 'Jlrf,a3orier,
Jacques Delange, l Maitre:i de
Pro8pere Corbiniere, Secretaire,
David Samuels, f Ceremoniu,
Emile Gagneux, ler Diacre, •
Joel Noah, (de la Loge Occidental, No. 22,) Oouvreur.

Aiken, C. D.
Garnoisette, Jno.
Andrews, Richard Gates, Erastus
Berg, J oseph
Green, Ben.
Bramley, J. J.
Grippen, E. M.
Brienhardt, Lewis Gunsberl?er, N.
Clements, Q. A.
Gutte, Isidore
Hall, 0 . C.
Collins, Stebhen
Colney, L. .
Hickok, H. D.
Craycroft, J. H.
Hunter, W.R.
Evans, Eli B.
Irwin, Edward
Flandreau, J. N.
Kline, C. J.
Frost, B. J.
La.mbine, Antoine
Gallwey, Richard
~'ELLOW

Lampney, P.A.
Meraux, P. H.
Mundy, E. L.
McGrath, Wm.
Parsons, Nathan
Powell, John
Rosenthal, Lewis
8cellen, J. D.
Schimmel, John
Smith, E. J. ·
Southworth, E. C.
Springer, Julius
CRAFT:

Kramer, C. W.-1.

(164]

(165)

'

Stewart,, S. C.
Stich, William
Stowe, A. W.
Strobel, Mathias
Stukey, J. H.
Stumpf, John
Troppman, John
Van Rankin, D.
Wacasser, Robert
Weaver, Vinal
Whistler, T. H.
Wilcox, C. E.- 59.

386

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

387

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
Pnst 1'Instera :

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Howe, S. B.
MuBBer, J. J.

Ager,'J. E.
English, James
Ennalinger, G.

Roth, Adam
Vogt, Henry-9.

McKibben, Jos.
Reynolds, G. W.
WITHDRAWN:

Buhlinger, Simeon Graham, T. B.
Harris, Garland
Cooper, S. D.
Lemmon, W. C.
Foote, E. J .

Stailey, Samuel
Thompson, R. J.
Warner, Henry-12.

Savage, J.M.
Seltzer, Henry
Spohn, Elijah

STRICKEN FR0 '.11 ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Brown, J. W.

Booth, G. A.

Re.pp, Joseph

Taylor, R. H.-4.

San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19.
Stockton, Snn Jonquin County.

Stated Meetings, 11foruiay next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS :

G. B. Claiborne, Sen. Deacon,
W.R. Jefferson, Jun. Deacon,
W. M. Ve.nee, Marshal,
P. Rothen~ush, t Stewards,
J. G. J enkrns, \ ·
A. G. Brown, Tyler.

T. T. Bouldin, Wor. Master,
E. M. Howison, Sen. Warden,
J. D. Peters, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Graham, Treasurer.
E. D. Eldridge, SecreianJ,
E. W. Hager, Chaplain,
J. K. Shafer,

Gransky, Chas.
Jones, E. F.
Keltz. E. C.
Kennedy, J.B.
Kitchings, D.
Lester, A.

Wm. Graham.

Keeler, John

Munter, A.

Lewis, A.
Me.thews, H. O.
"Morris, J . C.
McKamy, J .M.
Pe.lache, G.

Friedlander, I.
Gage, A. S.

Goldman, M.

Forsyth, Jae. H.
Hunt, John A.
Gates, D. V.
Hutchinson, C. J.
Gates, Justin
Ingham, C. T.
Gift, Geo. W.
Johnson, Albert
Goss, Leonard
Johnson, R. P.
Griffith, Humphrey l,ardner, F. S.
Griffith, Jas. T.
tong, Wm. S.
Griswold, Gilbert Lord, J . D.
Harris, E. A.
Madden, Jerome
Harris, Lewis B. Mitchell, Jno. A.
He.eke!!, D. H.
N:orris, Jno. M.
Httyden, A. M.
Morse, S. T. ~
H ereford, Frank
Mudgett, L. A.
Hill, Thomas
McClellan, Robert
Hoag, Wm. M.'
McGrew, John
Hough, James
McMea.Jls, S. A.
Hunt, D. N.
Redding, B. B.

Asbury, G. M.
Davenport, Wm.

Deal, Samuel
Felch, Walton C.

Ball, N. A. H.
Boley, A.G.
Cone, George

Hancock, T. W.
Hill, C. A.
Locke, B. S.

Block, Emanuel
Buddeven t, C. L.
Craig, J. L.

Henry, H. 0.
Hillyer, .M: C.
Johnson, Thomas

Richardson, A. G.
Rumsey, L. W.
Russell, J. P.
Rust, P. C.
Sackett, C. C.
Shepherd, J. M.
Stanwood, N. D.
Steevens, D. St. C.
Thompson, J . P.
Trnutman, J ohn
Walters, Andrew
Waters, John
Welbourn, L . C.
White, Wm. S.
'\-Vills, Jno. M.
Wilson. A. H.
Zander, T. P.-79.

Graves, J. L .
Gilmore, D. W.

Wright, Jno. A.-7.

May, S. J,
Moon, Jackson

Morse, Charles
Wate1111 W. R.-10.

Kidder, N. A.
Little, Samuel
Read, Jno. A. ·

Thompson, J. L.
White, C. S.-11.

srRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Alden, Thomas
Backus, Gordon
Coachman, J . C.

Die~! , I. S.
•
Ee.kms, W. H.
Fowler, J . A.

Simpson, Wm.-4.

· Greenwald, Simon Hardy, J .P.
Hall, J. T.
Starrett, Milton
Hardy, J. H .
Taylor, L. W.-12.
DIED:

·Mitchell, Jo.a. B.-1.

WlTllDRA WN :

Alexander, J. O.
Craner, A.

MASTER MASONS:

Abbott, Chas. E.
Arcega, Jos. M.
Atkins, Jno. R.
Barr, Jno~C.
Blake, Gorham
Blom, J.C.
Bockrath, H. H.
Booth, Lucius A.
Bowstead, Jas.
Bradford, C. H.
Brewllter, Joo. A.
Chapman, 0. V.
Cropsy, J . F.
Day, Jas. T.
Denver, Frank
Elkus, Louis
Ferris, L. W.

WITIIDRA WN:

Parker, R. B.
Schaeffer, F.
Swartz, P.
Tyler, J . A.
Vandyke, J . M.'--36.

ENTER>:D APPRENTICES:

Palmer, W. T.

' A. D. PatterRon.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

MASTER MASONS:

Benwn, H. C.
Beritzhoff, A. C.
Bone.cine., F.
Brown, S. J .
Choate, G. R.
Clttrk, W. B.

Geo. I. N. Monell,
Henry H. Hartley,

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Pnst Dla.sters.

F . C. Andrew,

N. Greene Curtie, G. M.
hae.c Davis,

Hoerchner, A.H.
-6.

DIED :

Hine, Ane.n-1.

Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21.
Honolulu, Hnwnllnn blond&.

Stated .Meetings, first Moruiay in each month.

Washington Lodge, No~ 20.
Sn.eramento, Snernnl.ento County:

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Geo. I . N. Monell, Secrel.ary,
Ham. C. Harrison, Wor. 1lfaster,
J. D. Treat, Sen. Deomn,
Ed we.rd E. Eyre. Sen. Warden,
Jno.
Rothenbucher, Jun. Deacon,
JameR S~Jameson, Jun. Warden,
David Maddux, 'I're<UUrer,
0. D. Chafee, (of Tebo.ma. Lodge, No. 3,) 'l'yler.

[166]

OFFICERS1

H enry F. Poor, Wor . Matrter,
T. C. Heuck, Sen. Deacon,
C. F. GuHlou, Sen. Warden,
Willhim Duncan, Jun. De=n,
William Greig, Jun. Warden,
John Montgomery, 1'/arshul,
G. H. Luce, 'l'reasurer,
E. Hoffman,
ls,
Abr. Forno.oder, Secretary,
William Webster, f teward.•,
•
J. W. Pfluger, 'I'yler.
Post Mnoten •

William Wo11d,

Alex. J. Cartwright.

[167J

"

3~8

RETURSS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

Cornell, J. B.
Durham, B. F. ·
Eldridge, J. P.
Emmes, G. J.
Feldheim, S.
French, A. S.
Froebe, T.
Gilman, G. D.
Green, H.J.
Hardi, E. F.

Ford, S. P.
Mauer, L. G.

Flitner, D. N.

Harvey, M. R.
Hughell, Thomas
Jackson, Joseph
James, Samuel
Johnson, T. N.
Lewers, C. H.
Macfarlane, H.
Melchers, G. C.
Mcintyre, H.
McLean, G. C.

Pfluger, J . c.•
Quinlan, Damel
Reiners, G.
Robbins, N. H.
Sherman, Hor.
Siders, G. C.
Sweeney, G.
Thurston, A. G.
Von Holt, H.
Wood,Edmu nd-53.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Thompson, J. H.-5.

Rice, W. B.

389

GRAND LODGE OF OALI.i'ORNIA.

Brooks, W. H. J. Howeli, L. V. H.
Chamberlain, C. M. Kennedy, ,John
Dodge, Alex.
Love, B. S.
Freelon, T. W.

Spofford, W. E.
Squires, H. N.
Pollock, Edward
-13.

McDougal, Geo.
Sheldon, J.
Smith, William

WITHDRAWN :

Benson, E. S.

Gamble, J. S.

Hackett, J . K.

Me.n!ler, L. G.-4.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL }'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Bates, G. C.
Brown, J. V.
Campbell, Alex.
Che.uvitee.u, F.
Crozier~ R. G.

Farwell, J. M.
Gihon, J. H.
Hagan, A. H.
Hampton, R. B.

Addis, Joo.

Finley, J. W.

Harris, S. R.
Heyl, W. S.
Hooper, A. J.
Hughes, J . L.

Merrill, Annis
Middleton, Jos.
Mount, C. E.
Noe, Je.mes-17.

DIED:

WITHDRAWN:

Lange, G.

1858.]

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

MASTER MASONS :

Ad~ms, E. P.
Allen, W. H.
Austin, J. W.
Austin, S. S.
Bartow, C. S.
Bernard, B.
Brayton, G.
· Collins, Jer.
Comstock, H.
Cooper, James

[May,

Richmond, B.-2.

He.yep, E. M.

Loring, Samuel-4.

SUSPENDED :

Babcock, W.

Williams, George-2.
DIED :

Andrews, J.orin Jr.-1.

Madison Lodge, No. 23.
Gron Valley, Ncvodo County.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.

Occidental Lodge, No. 22.

OFFICERS a

San Francisco, San Frandeco County.

Stated Meetings, foorth Monday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Wm. H. Stowell, Sen. Dtacon,
Wm. F. Flick, Jun. Duzcon,
J. Mead Huxley, Marshal,
• John Kehoe,
} Steu:ar<U
John Robinett,
'
Joel N oe.h, fJ'yler.

Wm. M. La Roche, War. Master,
John B. Newton, Sen. Warden,
James LBidley, Jun. Warden,
William Sherman, PreaNrer,
James Pullman, Secretary,
S. A. Che.pin, Chaplain,

Geo. W. Baker,
Albert G. Randall,

Gregory Ye.le,
Joel Noah.

J\1ASTER MASONS:

..

Alexander, George Franklin, Lumley
Bailey, Orrin
Freeman, J.M.
Baird J. H.
Gt.tes, H. S.
Bre.ndan, Samuel Garwood, G. M.
Brierly, Wake
Gordon, John
Clark, J. A.
Gore, D. B.
Cook, Elisha
Gre.ut, Jo.mes
Eldridge, J. O.
Holla.nd, N.
Ellill, J. S.
Hopkms, R. C.
Fenn~r, C. G.
Ruut, D. B.
Fitch, H. S.
Johnson, T. R.

Pnst Mnater1.

Zenas Wheeler,

Pearson, J. G.
Knowles, C. W.
Roberts, D. S.
Le.mmot, A. S.
Rowell, lse.e.c
Lull, L. R.
. Seymour, S. A.
Moore, E. J.
Sinton, R. H.
Negus, S. W.
Nick~rson, Mulf. Smith, Stewart
Norcross, Daniel Soule, Frank
Thro.sher. I. G.
Nork>n, Joshua
Watson, G. l<'.
Parker, T. B.
Woodworth, F. A.
Pee.i:kes, George
-60.

Banks, W. E.
Blackford, John
Boardman, J, H.
Brigham, S.
Burnett, John
Clough, J . E.
<Jook, H. H.
Cowin, Stephen
Crandell, G. N.
Crossett, W. C. .
Deidenbe.ch, Jos.
Dela.no, A.
Dibble, A. B.
Edwards, C. R.

Hossefross, G. H.
Kohler, F. D.

Lovett, Joseph
Saffrons, Isaac

[168]

O. H. Dibble.

Seguin, B.
Stevens, W. H.-9.

Erwin, T.
McClintock, J. T. Scott, Harrison
Silveste1-, Henry
Evans, Morris
McDonald, C. P.
Falk, Adolphe
McElroy, F .
Smith, C. F.
Findley , Thomas McLaughlin, Edw'd Smith, C. W. W.
Gad, Berne.rd
McLaughlin, J. P. s olomon, A.
Humiston, Luther llfoMurtry, J . H. 1Sowers, L. R.
Jessel, Morris
McMurtry, W. S. Spencer, W. K.
Noonan, Pa.trick
Spofford, E. W.
Kohler, Wm.
Sweet, H. H.
Larimer, J . W.
Osborne, A. P.
Tansey, T. R.
Lockwood, J. W. P enberthy, Wm.
Louck, E. V.
Re.pp, J. D.
Tilley, W. J .
llfansu, Z.
Richards, J. J.
Tompkins, E. A.
Meyers, Simon
Sanders, A.
Watt, Wm.-67,
Musgrave, R.
Scadden, Henry
FEJ,LOW CRAFTS :

Farrell, A. J.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Bowie, A. J.
Brinsmade, A. A.
Harvey, J. C.

Wm. McCormick,
MASTER MASONS:

Pnst Masten 1

James Rice, Jr.
Je.s. E. Wainwright,
Smyth Clark,

Wm. McCormick, War. Ma&ter,
Reuben Leech, Sen. Deacon,
Zene.s Wheeler, Sen. Warden,
John Madr!ll, Jun. Deacon,
A. B. Brady, Jun. Warden,
Thos. R. Walker, Marshal,
J. J. Dorsey, Preasurer,
Chas. H . Dodd, } "t
_,_
John Erb
,,,,eioar....,
B. B. Smaile, Secretary,
Je.s. W. McClure, 'l'yler.
'

Lambert, J . S.

Mayhew, J. S.-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Bard, L. L.
Clapp, W.B.

22

Edge, Matthew
Freeman, H.F.

Hancock, H. H.
Hubba.rd, F . A.

[169]

Nisue.nger, Wm.-7.

[Ma,v,

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

390

WITHDRAWN:

J
Burges, T · ·
Goad, J.C.

s

R .tc h ar dson, · C·
Stewart, M. L.

Hollis, W. J.
McCoy, John

8TB.JCKEN 1''ROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMEl'T

·Barnstead, T. S.

Fletc her, Stephen

1858.]

Georgetown Lodge, No. 25.

Taylor, Samuel
Wood, William-8.

OF DUES

:

Georgetown, El Dorado County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Phelps, Jonathan-3.

OFFICERS I

John B. H11rden, Wor. Master,
James D. McMurry, &n. Warden,
Geol'ge Beattie, Jun. Warden,
A. D. Rock, Treasurer,
Richard Donca11ter, Jr., SecrW:zry,

DIED :

Hodgson, Henry-1.

391

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Russell Williams, Sen. Deacon,
Georii;e W. Rapert, Jun. Dea,con,
W. W. Dodd, l «t
,,_
W. S. Canan, f o1ewaru.<r,
S. A. Berry, Tyler.

Past l!Io.sters 1

P. W. Cunningham,

James

John P. Davidson,

z. Kelly.

MAS'rER llASONS:

Mariposa Lodge, No. 24.
Marlpollll, l!lorlpo10. County.

Stated Meetings, Saturdl'ly next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

J. A. McDonald, Sen. Dtaron,
William A. King, Wor. Master,
T. J. :Farnsworth, Jun. Dearoo,
R. A. Appling, Sen. Warden,
:Miles Goodman , Marshal,
N. B. Hubbell, Jun. Warden,
Andrew BrowIY, l Steu:arch
Julius Dettlebach, Treasurer,
J. J. Marehall, I
'
John R.. Norris, Secretary, James N. Mackay, 'l'yler.
Po.1t Mnstci-s •

G. B. Abel,
Adams, J. T.
Aeilkema, B. D.
Aiken, J.M.
Appling , E. R.
Appling, J. li.
Bell, Samuel
Boling, John
Boling, J. L.
Bowlin, J. S.
Bowman, J.C.
, Brownfield, S. G.
Allen, George
Brodres, R. C.
Burchard, W. C.
Dickey, H. H.
Ashman, J. S.

s. A. Merritt, P. J ..G. W.
MASTER MASONS:

Carroll, H. A.
Hubbard, Wm.
Creighan, James • Jack~on, A.
Crenshaw, Geo. H. Jen~m~, J.C.
Crippen, J. D.
Lewis, M. B.
Davis, J. H.
Moore, J. N.
Early, Thomas
McCracken, Jas.
Hart, E. p,
McN~mara, J. T.
Hewitt, KE.
McN1chol, John
Hilham, Thomas
Parker, W. Y ·
Boward, J -. M.
Rountree, W. A.
Howeth, Nelson
Simmons, J.C.
1'ELLO IV CRAFTS :

Heger, D. J.
Dorn, A.J.
Grosenmiers, J · F. Hooker, W. J.
McCrury,
J. G.
Heffernon, P. S.
ENTERXD APPRENTICES :

Murry, A.H.
WITIIDRAWN:

Boyce, A. D.
Brown, E. D.

Connelly, R. S.
Linoberg, L.

Magn:er, John
Morris, B. F.,

Wm. A. King.
Simpson, James
Stiner, C. M.
Stockton, J. M.
Sweet, S.
Thomas,J. N.
Tomey, J. W.
Valentine, C. T.
Westfall, J. J.
Williams, Geo. W.
Wo1·mser, Simon
Young, A. H.--57 ·
McNichol, A.
Parker, B. G.
Shilling, J, D.-13.

Harney, J. N.
Bo~sout, A. Jr.
Breese, A.
Breese, T. W.
Buyatte, Louis
Carter, William
Chandler, W. H.
Day, R. J.
Deverter, Michael

E isner, JoReph
Ellis, N. W.
Elson, J. JI!.
FortunP.s, Wm.
Gibbs, W. T.
Gore, J. G.
Griffith, J. T,.
Hook, G, W.
Hnghes, J. H.

Hurns, J. A.
Castle, J.M.

Hershey, C. B.
Myrick, J. W.

Donahoo, W.W.
Downs, D.S.
Green wood, E.

G11thrie. R. M.
H ewitt, R.
Habert, G. A.

Barney, C. S.
Boswell, N. C.
Courtois, Cha~.
/
Cox. W. H.

Cranston, T. F.
Davis, Matthew
Glaze, M.
Gunsell, J. II.

Jamison, S. M.
Kittle, A. C.
Langliiy, Charles
Lorsbach , Adolph
Martin, David
Mayenbaum, H.
Parker, S. E.
Peterjonna, P.
Porter, Thos.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

McConnell, Samuel Ray, J. W.-7.
Noel, J. T.

}]NTERED APPRENTICES:

Simmons, J.
Steel. J .. N.
Stewart, E. K.-12.

Loftus, Jno.
Miller, Thos.
Mooney, llf.

WITHDRAWN:

.Latchum, G. T.
Meinieke, F.
McConnell, Tbos.
Palmer, W. M.

Peebles, S. S. .
Raybum, L. C.
Simpson, J. C.-15.

STRICKEN FRO:l:I ROLL FOR NON·PAYMl!:NT OF DUES :

Bird, H. B.,

Lanc11ster, W. H.

Oliver, J. W.-a.

El Dorado Lodge, No. 26.
Placerville, El Dorado County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.
McElroy, A.-s..
Steptoe, J. T.-7.

OFFICER.Sa

Edgar Bo11;ard11s, Wor. M.Jster,
Isaac N. Barnes, Sen. Warden,
F. H. Harmon, Jun. Warden,
L. Tannewald, Trea1111rer,
Ike. S. Titus, SliCretary,

DIED:

Dickinson, O. M.-1.

W. M. Hale, Sen. Deacon,
Chas. Beasley, Jun. Deacon,
L. B. Hopkins, Mqrahal,
Richard Hardin, } St a d8
John Roy,
ew r '
J. T. Devoe, Tyler.
PRst l!fustci-s 1

William A . .funuary,

[170]

Ray, F. G.
Robinson, E. J.
Roush. Wm.
Russell , H. W.
Smith, J. F.
Stockton, Jas.
Turner, Jared .
Williamson. J . R .
Wood, W. T.-49.

'

Edgar Bogardus.

(l'il l

392

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

MASTER MASONS:

Arvidson, C. J.
Baber, A. J.
Bailey, J. G.
Barnes, C. W.
Batss, F. I<'.
Biron, Hymau
Borowsky, G.
Borowsky, M.
Bush, John
Carr, L. T.
Cartheche, John
Crosby, A. C.
Diehl, I. S.

Dorsey, A. S.
Doyle, Berman
De Golia, D.
Eisfeildt, Theo.
Fink, F. A.
Fiske, L. C.
Frank, Wm.
Gelwicks, D. W.
Grabenheim, A.
Hawley, A. H .
Hunter, Alex.
Johnson, J.C.
Johnson, Wm.

Kahn, Aaron
King, John
Leon, W. F.
Levison, M.
Little, H.
Luck, Frank
Mell, Franeis
Moch, J. A.
Moss, Theo.
McBeth, Jas.
McCully, John
Newell, D. K.
Notewl\re, C. N.

Parker, E. G.
Plumado, F. H.
Reiech, P. M.
Rowen,J. A.
Smith, W. H.
Stout, G. W.
Sulzbacher, Jo~.
Thatcher, A. M.
Turnbull, James
Van Vleck, H.
Vernon, W. P.
White, Robert-63.

393

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Epley, John

Towers, J. 0.

Raab, Lewis

Waugh, R. G.-4.

WITIIDR AWN :

Belcher, Galatia
Carr, John
Darling, H. L.
Davis,J. R.

Dexter, S. S.
Driggs, B. B.
Gordon, J. B.

Grant, John
Grant, William
Live, Charles

Lowe, Wm. M.
Monroe, A.
Seaman, H. J.-13.

DIED:

Holler, Philip (E. A.)-1

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Meacham, Benj.-2.

Crandall, O. A.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Dorsey, J.M.

Parker, A. J.

Shields, J. W.

Squires, Ogden-4.

Columbia Lodge, No. 28.

WITIIDRAWN :

Allen, J as. H.
Buker, J.B.
Cardwell, L. S.

Caystile, Thos.
Coughlin, Daniel

Davis, J. T.
Le Cam, A. M.

Ober, C.H. •
Ream, Samuel-9.

Columbia, Tuolumne County.

S tated Meetings, first Thursday in each Montlt.
OFFICERS•

Augustus Campbell, Wor. Master,
John Millington, Sen. DeaC011,
M. S. Toman, Sen. Warden,
~. 8. Colby, Jun. Deacon,
M. W. Parsons, Jun. Warden,
J. C. Floyd, Mar8hal,
W. O. Sleeper, '/lrea1tUrer,
V. R. Raymond, l 01
"tew _,_
John Beckendom, f
ar,..,,
F. W. H. Aaron, Secretary,
S. Jellerson, '/Igler.

Trinity Lodge, No. 27.
Weavervlll.,, Trinity Connty.

Paot l'llasters 1

Stated Meetings, last Monday in each nwnth.

Augustus Campbell,

OFl<'ICERS 1

R. G. Stuart, &cretary,
J . W. Finley, Sen. J)eacon,
J. C. Mason, Jun. Deacon,
- - - - , fyler.

R. T. Miller, Wor. Master,
Jno. A. Watson, Sen. Warikn,
Jno. McMurray, Jun. Warden,
A. J. Loomis, Treasurer,

Paet l'llasters1

M. Ruch,

M. W. Personnette,

J. S. Pitzer.

MASTER MASONS :

Bilay, A. F.
Burch, Jno. C.
Chellis, J. F.
Dannenbrink, C.
Davidson, H. B.
Edwards, F. T.
Felter, A. J.
Fouty, Clinton
Gilman, S. S.
Giveen, Wm. C.
Goring, Charles
Griffin, M. F.
Harris, F.

Harris, J. S.
Hessig, Jacob
Hinds, David
Hocker, Henry
Howland, Daniel
Hupp, W. J.
Kelly, E. A.
Lang, Max
Lanver, Joseph
Lee, Craven
May, Jno. B.
May, W. B.
Messec, J. G.

Sturdivant, J . A.
Mitchell, A.
Sutherlin, W. D.
Molony, Wm.
Thorpe, L. B.
Musser, John
Van Schaick, Wm.
Myers, John
McGillivray, Jos. Ware, William
Wells, F. W.
McKenzie, F. S.
Wells, R. B.
Neblett, E.
Norcross, O. H.P. West, W. J.
White, John
Peschke., F. W.
Wilson, R. W.
Potter, D. W.
Winston, B. W.
Price, A. G.
Wood, J. C.-61.
Reynolds, Levi
Simpson, W. G.

FELLOW CRAFT :

Carter, Jno. W.-1.

l172J

James A. Jackson.
JIHSTl!R MASONS :

Bacon,C. A.
Barnett, John
Brazee, J. W.
Campbell, Jas.
Carley, Jos.
Coffroth, J. W.
Conner, J . L.
Day, Ebenezer
Dornin, J . M.
Duchow, J. C.
Duncan, J.
Eddy, James
Farnsworth, A.

Jt'arquhar, Alex.
Kendall, L. N.
Plumer, G. B.
Leavitt, A.
Reasoner, N.
Ferguson, P. G.
Fletcher, Andrew Leon, S.
Riester, John
Frost, Jacob
Levy, Isaac
Roberts, J.
Gardner, N. B.
Lewis, M. A.
Robinson, R. A.
Glover, B. S.
J, ockley , E. B.
Skinner, Edward
Goodrich, A. Q.
Loring, J. M.
Sparks, J. G.
Gray, J . A.
Marshall, J. W.
Towle, R. H.
Hildebrand, M.
Marston, J . R.
Van Amringe, W.
Howland, L. L.
Miller, H. S.
Wedlake, John
Hurford, J.E.
McLaughlin, J. W. Wellington, E.
Jolly, John
Nellis, William
Wells, J.
Keith, J . W.
J.>arker, G. W.
Williams, F.-64.

Arthur, Wm.

Bcnwar, C.

FELLOW CRA~'T~ :

Bowen, P. M.

Yancey, P. M.-4.

E NTERED .APPRE!\TICES :

Briggs, E. B.

Hershfeldt, B. S.

Merchant, S. D.

Smith, E. M.-4.

WITIIDRA WN:

Blatchley, Ambrose Gillespie, C. K.
Mills, Edgar
Brundage, V. D.
Genung, A. W.
Mullin, E.
Collins, J. T.
Hunnewell, A. A. · Mylar, Thos.
Dillon, Jo~.
(173] •

'

Riley, C.R.
Sampson, G. H.
Whatley,WhiM!-13.

.•

394

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[Ma/J,

1858.J

Post Masters 1

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT 011' DUES:

Dryer, T. B.

Markham, W. F.-2.

Wm. S. Moses,

Geo. J. Robe,

DIED:

Taylor, T. R.-2.

Diamond Lodge, No. 29.
Dlnmond Springs, El Dorado County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or nezt preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

E. H. Evans, Sen. Deaoon.
E. Ellen, Jun. Deacon, ·
C. Y. H. Mallory, Marahal
P. J. Meighan, t St
~- '
G. H. Carter, f ewar~,
H. Kross, Tyler,
Put llloatera 1

Aaron D. Park, P. S. G. W.

Chas. F. Irwin.

MASTER MASONS :

Allen, L.
Baker, A. J.
Bowe, Jas. E.

Crittenden, R. D.
Ellis, Thomas
Hamm, S. F.

Harkerson Chas
Kaufman,
Keyser, J .

G.

Larkin, H.
· Meeks,
E. E. L.
Sblelds,F. M.-23.

FELLOW CR.AFT :

Haring, John-1.

Abbot, W. A.
Adriansen, If'.
Anderson, A.
Anderson, Jas.
Bartels, Charles
Baxter, C. G.
Don, Charles
Brower, A. B.
Brown, W. T.
Buck, Roland
Burbank, David
Carlton, Richard
Churchwnrd, Ja@.
Clark, S. D.
Collins, S. J.
Cook, Wm.D.
Corna, Paul
Cottrell, E. M.
Craig, Peter
Crocker, J. A.
Curtis, C. C.
Davron, George
Dayley, James·
Donnellan, D. C.
DoDzelman, J. F.

Akin, Jas.
Arvidson, A. C.
Bowe, E. Y.

Yount, A. K.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

McDaniel, C. M.
Remington, 0. T.

Phelps, W. S.
Prag, Martin
Reddish, T. J.
Reborn, Conrad
Richardson, A. D.
Hopertson, C. 0.
Sargent, S. F.
Scott, A. F.
Shaber, J. F.
Smith, C. W.
Snook, Robert
Tyler, T. P.
Tyre, David
Vall, J. F.
Valentine, John
Van Ness, Henry
Van Pelt, J. H.
V oilers, Henry
Watt, S. F.
Webster, J. R.
Wetherbee, C. H.
Whiteman, G. F.
Wilbur, J. P.
Worthley, T. R.

-112.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Bulger, Martin
Dryden, U. P.

Dort!, Benj.
Galloway, Wm.

Alley, Epbrnim
Cofran, George
Cox, Edwin

Diggs, W. H.
Dolan, P. F.
Douglass, G. G.

Godfrey, S. R.
Johnston, J . }'.

Lewis, 8.- F.
Ml\theson, R.-P.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Solomon, A.
Gaylor, R.
Graham, A. J.
Huse, S. E.

Ayer, Washington

Robe, A. A.
Ehman, Robert
Elliott, Henry
Hogeboom, L. V.
Everett, M. V. B. Horner, R. H.
Hunter, John
Ezgraber, Wm.
Fairley, Henry
Iverson, Niel
Field. E. X.
Jackson, Oscar
Field·, H. E.
Jolliffe, W. H.
Flood, J.C.
Kimball, T .A.
French, Arthur
Kincaid, J. E.
Garcia, J. L.
Kingston, H. A.
Knipe, T. J.
Giffin, 0. F.
Guetzen, Nicholas Kollenbourg, A.
Graves, H. T.
Lewis, Richard
Graves, W. H.
Marchovlch, J.
Griffin, Wm.
May, Jno. A.
Hacker, Edward
Middleton, F.
Hall, A. S.
McOombe, Jno.
Hall, G.D.
McGuigan, B.
Hamilton, Robert McKibbin, Wm.
Hanley, G. W.
Ni!htingale, Jno.
Hays, James
<Y rien, W. S.
Healey, R. S.
Park, J.C.
Helmke, Gust.
Petty,A.E.
Henken, M.
!'helps, A. E.
Hewitt, C. H.

ENTER.ED APPltENTICES:

Lepetit, L.

L. C. Owen,

MASTER MASONS:

Oxley, T. J.

Aaron D. Park, Wor. MaBkr,
Obas. F. Irwin. Sen. Warden,
W.R. Rison, Jun. Warden
J as. Ellis, Treaaurer
'
Alex. Seiebuttle, s/cr®ry,

a95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Riley, W. C.
White, S. H. P .-10.

I

Fiek, J. H.
Gilmore, G. W.
Morton, F. K.

Murrall T. J.
Neal, . R.
Shelley, Wm.-12.

STIUCKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMl!lNT OF DUES:

Clark, Charles

Gamage, Samuel

Keefe, J ohn-S.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Dickey, A. S.

Haas, G.

Richardson, H. !f. White, J.-i.
DIED:

Mo88, J ohn-1.

Mokelumne Lodge, No. 31.
Golden Gate Lodge, No. 30.

lllokelumne Hill, Calaveraa Coun1y.

Son Fl'llnclsco, San Fronchco County.

Stated Meetings, second ~esday in each month.

Stated Meetings, first Tuesday in each montl1..

OFFICERS I

OFFICERS1

Geo. S. Hull, Wor. Master.
James L. Miller, Sen. Deac-0n
Henry J. Morton. Sen. Warden
Martin Carroll, Jun. Deacon'
Thomas Biitley, -!un. Warden, '
.James A. Wright, Marshal '
Walter B. Cummm~s. Treaaurer,
,Jobn Madison
t
'
James C. George. S'ecrdary,
Caleb s. Hobbs, f Steward1,
Joel Naab, (of Occidental Lodge, No 22,) Tyler.

• [174]

.

Ja~. L. Wilkins, Wor. Master,

B. Grable, Sen. DeaCC1'1,
J. Maguire, Jun. Deaccfl1
M. Rowan,
«t
,_
E. J. Manning, o,ewcr~,
J. G. Miner, 'Iy r.

t

D. L. Mulford, Sen. Warden,
M. L. Cozine, Jun. Warden,
William Innes, Treasurer,
Jos. P. Douglaes, Secretary,
J.C. Reid.

Past lllosters 1
Jas. L. Wilkins.

[175]

'
896

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

•

1858.]

Ophir Lodge, No. 33.

MASTER MASONS:

Bacon, E. J.
Blum, I.
Boucher, W. K.
Clarke, C. A.
Davidson, L.
Dreher, John
Elias, C. H.

Ferguson, M. S:
Florence, S. C.
Gebhardt, Aug.
Gebhardt. J. C.
Grundy, C.
Hamilton, W. B.
Heard, S.

Bach, F.
Hodges, John

Hawk, P. J.

Hodapp, F.d.
Jarvis, Smith
Kraft, H.
Lyons, J . W.
McDowell, N. S.
Page, Lewis
Raymond, Gwin

Shuler, G. L.
Strauss, A.
Strauss, Ah.
Thompson, P.
Thompson, R.
Williams, B. H.
Woolsey, K. S.-39.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Mahan, Daniel

Ratz, William-5.

ENTERED APPR'EN'l'ICES :

Ayliffe, S. H.
Bader, A.
Brus)!, G. D.
Gilly, J.P.

Miller, :b. W.
Moorehouse, E.
McKinnie, J.B.
Peters, Jos.

Hanson, J .
Highly, Wm.
Hooper, H. R.
Magee, S. L.

Staples, D. J.
Van Pelt,J.
Wade, T. B.
Zuber, W. L.-16.

WITIIDRA WN :

Mayer, Jos.

Parker, T. B.

397

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Wintmiller, D.-3.

STRICKEN FRO:ll ROLL.FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Leake, C. A.-1.

Murphy'•• Co.lo.vcrl\8 County.

Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.
OFFICERS•

Wm. H. Barnes, War. M~ter,
Wm. C. Crispen, Sen. Warden,
Riley Senter, Jun. Warden,
Alex. H. Putney, 17'eaaurer,
J. M. Montgomery, Secrttary,
J ll.!I. McGowan, Chaplain,

Henry Fuhr, &n. Demxm,
George Metz, Jun. Duwm,
John Heinsdorff, Marahal,
Nelson Card, l a._
J, S. C, Davis, f ooewarda,
Joseph Harris, Tyler.
Po.st lllaater1 •

J. W. Griswold,

Alex. H. Putney,

W. H. Barnes.

· MASTER MASONS :

Bacon, F.dmund
Biggs, Dennis
Clay, Wm. H.
Criswell, Samuel
Davis, Thomas
Deer, Thomas

Doland, Peter
Downing, W. R.
Emery, A. J.
Green, N. W.
Jacobs, Louis
Johnson, E. W.

Jones, William
Kline, George
Lapham, W. W.
Leonltard, George
Meneicke, Fred.

McLean, H. R.
Newton. S. T.
Stuart, W.W.
Taylor, Ira

Weber,~Loui&-35.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

l>IED:

Fidler, N. L.

Buchanan, W. P.-1.

Leventhal, Louis

Poulson, ,Tohn.-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Dudrick, Chas.

Miller, William

Traver, P. L.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Anderson, A. G.
Biggs, N. B.
Angelopolo, Henry Farrar, Leonard
Baker, G. G.
Harland, Wm.
Hurckle. W. C.
Beach, G. H.

Gold Hill Lodge, No. 32.
Oro City, Placer County.

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each month.

STRICKEN FROll ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT 011' DUES:

Jeffries, R. A.-1.

OFFICERS1

J, B. Henderson, War. M~ter,
B. L. Heeth, Sen. Warden,
D. V. Mason, Jun. Warden,
J. Holcomb, 17'eawrer,

H. W. Starr, &crttary,
J, E. Stewart, Sen. Demxm,
M. Waldren, Jun. Deacon,
J, W. Spann, Pyler.
PR8t Mastera 1

W.W. Caperton,

J. B. Henderson,

Santa Clara Lodge, No. 34.

J. E. Stewart.

So.nto. Claro., Santa Clara County.

MASTER MASONS:

Adams, W. V.
Beck, W. M.
Bond, J. A.
Bosquit, John
Cordillion, W.
Delany, John

Devane,' W. R. K.
Hill, J. A.
Holder, J.
Honeycutt, L. K.
Mandel, E.
·

Marshall, J,
McClure, S.
Ralnny, T. T.
Roberts, W. E.
Rucker, J, W.

Rusing, E. S.
Scogin, W. D.
Sylvester, E. .
Trammel, T. J.
Woods, W.S. C.-30.

}'ELLOW CRAFTS:

Maleh, Julius
French, C. G. W.

OFFICERS1

H.J. Bradley, Wor. MaBter,
J. Dickson, Sen. Warden,
Geo. P. Swinford. Jun. Warden,
W. B. Stockton, 17'eaaurer,

Latimer, L. D.

Hendricks, G. J.

Reese, J . M. D.-4.

Lathrop, T. W.-3.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:
Sim~, J, 8.-1.

Ll761

E.T. Starr.,&crttary,
H. J. Morgan, &n. Inacan,
H. Lillie, Jun. Deacoo,
James Williams, Tyler.
Past MaAters 1

John Cook,

WITHDRAWN:

c'arter, J, L.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Robinson, J. N.-2.

ENTERED Al'PRENTICl!:S:

Blane, George

Safaelo, Nicolas
Sinclair, J.B.
Smith, Wm.-14.

Light, A. B.
Myers, M. S.
Raeny, McKee

A. J. Jackson,

H.J. Bradley.

MASTER MASONS:

Benson, A. B.
Boone, W. D.
Brock, E. E.
Caldwell, A. B.
Clayton, Chas.

23

Gardner, Louis
Greenia, Joseph
Herrington, D. W.
King, D. P.

Messing, H.
Senter, J. N.
Montgomery, G. B. Shepheard, F. A.
McCabe, P. T.
Vincent, G. W.
Rucker, W. T.
Wilheimer, S.-27.

L177l

398

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

Roork, J. H.-4.

Hardwicke, J, W. Herring, _J. H.

Coon, L. E. V.

WITHDRAWN:

Anderson, A. P.
Bayley, A. M.
Dale, Edward

MASTER MASONS:

Bancroft, C. A.
England, J. T.

Strasser, A.
Strasser, L.-11.

Joseph, B.
Davis, P. J.
Gallimore, Wesley Martin, J. P.
Riche, L. M.
Habick, Ferd.

399

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Freer, Peter
Lamp, G.

Martin, D. G.

Marx, Louis-14.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Marshall, Wm.

Peilsticker, F. A.-2.
WI1'HDRAWN:

Baker, R. C.
Bidwell, John
Block, Joseph
Callow, Thomas

Chapin, Miles
·Crossette, G. H.
Gluckauf, Jos.
Goodrich, O. O.

Griffiths, E. A.
Keefer, Henry
Mathews, Wm.

Stearns, Minot
Van Norden, R. T.
Walsh, Michael-14.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT Q}' DUES:

Alspaugh, J. II.
Arthur, D. G.
Farnin, Joseph

San Diego Lodge, No. 35.
San Diego, San Diego ()ounty.

Gilkyson, J. W.
Harris, P.H.
Hobart, W.W.

Hoft'stetter, J. G.
Reynolds, Horace
Sarbelfelt, C. A.

Smith, Levi
Wells, Thomas-11.

Stated .Meetings, first .Monday in each month.
OFFICJERS1

D. B. Kurtz, Sen. Dwcon,
Thos. R. Darnall, Wor. ·Maller,
George Lyons, Jun. Dtaron,
J. R. Gitchell. Sen. Warden,
G. A. Pendleton, Marshal,
H. Manasse, Jun. Warden,
Jos. Smith, TreMUrer,
S. Goldman, t S
d
M. Schiller, f tewar a.
E. U. Morse, Secrdary,
William A. Treeweek, Tyler.

St. John's Lodge, No 37.
Yreka, Siskiyou ()ounty,

Paat l'llast.e rs 1

D. B. Kurtz.

Wm. C. Ferrell,

Philip Crosthwaite,

Stated .Meetings, first Saturday in eacli month.,
OFFICERS 1

MASTER MASONS:

Ames, J. J.
Bogert, A. C.
Bogert, J. C.
Couts, C. J.

Fitzgerald, E. H.
Gilbert, Luther
Hooper, G. F.
Jaeger, L. J. F.

Keating, J. P.
Kendrick, J . J.
Lassator, J. R.

Reiner, Joseph
Rose, Louis
Swy.caft'er, Jo@.-27.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Connors, J. W.

Van Alst, J. J.-2.

Joseph Smith, Wor. Master,
N. H. Millard, Sen. JJeac(i11,
Geo •W. Sleeper, Se11. Warden,
H. F. Tardy, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. W. Jackson, Jun. Wardtn,
Geo. T. Terry, Marshal,
William Grow ,'l'reaaurer,
E. K. Phipps, t SI
d
C. W. Tozer, Secretary,
S. Coh6n,
f ewar 8 •
J. L. Cummins, Ty'ter.
:i:i:ast 1'1111ater• 1

WITHDRAWN:

Pendleton, E. B.

De Blois, G. L.

Sexton, M. M.-S.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES :

Hoft'man, D. B.

Tebbetts, G. P.-2.
DIED:

Robineon, J. W.-2.

Hays, John

Jonathan Green,

Joseph Tyson.
MASTER MASON~:

Anthony, E. M.
Batterton, W. D.
Dibend, Chas. ·
Castel, J.M.
Colton, D. D.

Connolly, John
Cutler, N. T.
Dryer, Hiram
Hansen, Jacob
Heard, E. H.

Horsley, F. C.
Ingraham, Jo@.

Lowry, D. H.

Emerson, W. H.
Fairleigh, Wm.

Hollenback, D. S.

Arnold, F. M.
Creegan1 J as.
Duft', Jonn

Dyer, John
Fairchild, J. W.

!so.Ms, D.
Kelly, James
Killebrew, Wm.
Lennox, John
Reid, H. M.

8tratton,1l. B.
Turner, J. D.
White, H. K.
White, M. C.-32.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Butte Lodge, No. 36.
Bidwell'& Bar, Bntte County.

Stated .Meetings, first Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Gor.don Serviss, Se.cretary,
S. P. Powell, Sen. Deacon,
G. W. Drake, Jun. Dwxm,
A. J. Spaulding, Tyur.

E. S. Ruggles, Wor. M111ter,
A. L. Chamberlain, Sen. Wardm,
John R. Peacock, Jun. Warden,
G. W. Hess, .7'reaaurer,

Morse, H. M.

Tornoskie, J.~5.

ENTERED APPR&NTICEl:!:

Morehead, J.

Pierce, J. B.-6.

WITllDRA WN:

· Flannegan, E.
Livingston, F.

Runkle, M. A.
Shunway, G. W.-9.

STRICKEN FROM HOLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

George, Abel-1.

Paat l'llll8ter 1

DIED:

E. S. Ruggles.

Gross, Charles-1.

Ll78J

[li9J

400

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

Santa Cruz Lodge, No. 38.

FELL')W CRAFT:

Gaver, E. S.-1.

Santa C:r'Uz, Santa Cruz C.ounty.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.

ENTERED APfRENTICES:

Davis, D. L.

Webb, Alan3oo B.

OFFICERS1

J. F. J. Bennett, Wcr. Mruter,
A. W. Rawson, Sen. Warden,
H. J. Hill, Jun. Warden,
C. Wioterhelder, Treruurer,

N. H. Stockton, Secretary,
Samuel Drennan, Sen. D«UOn,
J. L. Prewett, Jun. De.aron,
J. B. Arcao, Tyler.

401

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA.

Worm~, J.-3.

WITHDRAWN :

Belknap, F. G.
Ford, Charles
Hinman, J. M.

Levy, Charles
Lichtenstein, S.
Orr, William

Rinfrew, Alex.
Tanchen, Hyman
Tuska, A.

Whitehill, Irnac
Wright, B. T.-11.

Past Masters 1

N. H. Stockton,

H. W. Peck,

B. T. Buckley,

A. W. Rawson.

MASTER MASONS:

Bessee, J. N.
Brummett, Jae.
Curtiss, J oho
Dame, J.B.
Dochery, John
Dobbinbiss, John
Durham, E.

Evans, G. W.
Ficek, John
Frederick, J. L.
Green, S. S.
Gregory, D. S.
Hutchins, N.
Imas, H. A.

Kitridge, F. M.
Moore, T. W.
Parsons, H.F.
Patterson, J. R.
Porter, J. T.
Riley, J.C.

Scott, H. D.
Sineleer, Prewett
Sterns, J. P.
Tracy, Peter
Vestal, R. K.
Wilson, 0. P.-86.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Hodgeden, G. W.

Gatch, T. M.

*McMorris, Jno.-B.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Lynch, S. J.

Hinkley, H. G.

Pinkham, J. F.

Sacramento, Sacramento County.

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

Wm. F. Knox, Wor. Master,
C. D. Hossack, Secretary,
Wm. H. Hill, Sen. Warden,
J. L. Shuck, Ohaplain,
Andrew Aitken, Jun. Warden,
F. Foster, Sen. Deacon;
A. Mayer, Treasurer.
H. H. Pearson, Jun. Deacon,
0. D. Chafee, (of Tehama Lodge, No. 3,) 'Fyler.

Waters, James-8.

Stampley, 0. K.

Pa.st Masten 1

J. L. English,

WITHDRAWN:

Baggerman, John

Sacramento Lodge, No. 40.

J. H. Gass,

Tyns, J . B.-4.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL l>'OR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Cannon, E. G.-l.

J . M. Koon,

Alvord, J. H.
Anthony, James
Asher, A. B.
Behrand H.
Boreas, H.
Browo, J. Q.
Cook, Hiram

Cornwall, P. B.
Dexter, S. F.
Edwards, P. L.
Gardiner, F.
Greenebaum, II.
Henry, W. P.
Hyman, A.

Jacobs, H.
Johnston, .T.
Kaneen , .J. S.
King, D.
Light, W.W.
Millar, J , H.

~'ELLOW

Yuba Lodge, No. 39.

Millgate, T.
Montgomery, J. F.
McGowan, Robert
Pearis, R. A.
Sherman, E. A.
Wilcoxson, J.-37.

CRAFT :

Turton, William-I.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Mary•vll1e 1 Yuba County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month. ·

Farmer, L.
Homers, M.

Hudson, J.

w: F.

Riley,

Spencer, D. C.-5.

WITIIDitAWN:

OFFICERS1

Jos. De Bell, Secretary,
Anderson Seavy, Sen. Deacon,
Max Armer, Jun. De'UhTI,
Fred. Schreiber, Tyler.

Charles Raish, Wor. Master.
Wm. C. Stokes, Sen. Warden,
Joseph M. Brown, Jun. Warden,
L. Lewis, Treruurer,

Wm. F. Knox.

MASTER MASO~S:

Borneman, W. G.

Kosmiosky, II.

King, J.

Kohlman, Jacob-4.

Past Musters 1

A. Maurice, Jr.

J. T. Dickey,

Jos. De Bell.

MASTER MASONS:

Evans O. M.
Bowman, J. S.
Bromberger, M.A. Everts, F. D.
Campbell, W. A. Fairfax, C. S.
Garst, E.
Cazaux, H. B.
Gear George
Champlin, Ira
Cummins, Samuel Gla~o, L.
Glickman, J.
Creps, W. H.
Donovan, Thomas Goodwin, J. D.

Harney, D. H.
Pearkes, Fred.
Kernan, Thomas H. Potter, L. M.
Keyser, P. W.
Seward, Thos.
Logan, A. D.
Shakespeare, B. F.
Marcuse, M.
Shultz, Max
Mesick, R. S.
Smith, Robert T.
McCliotock, Wm. Taylor, Thomas J.
McDuffie, J. Y.
Wagoer,Heory-42.

• Permleslon ii;lven to receive dogreae eleewhero.

[180]

Martinez Lodge, No. 41.
.lllarttnez, Contra Costa County.

Stated Meetings,. Saturday next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS a

'l'homas A. Brown, Wor. M11.11ter,
Leopold Lazar, Sen. Warden,
W. H. Buckley, Jun. Warden,
Emanuel Laz.ir, Treaaurer,

Joo. F. S. Smith, &cretary,
Wm. J. Franklin, Sen. Deacon,
Elias Blum, Jun. Deacon,
Geo. J. Pattison, Tyler.
Past ltlnster •

Thomas A. Brown.
[181J

402

RETURNS OF SU'BORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[.May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

403

ENTERED APPRENTICES:
!\!ASTER MASOlCS:

Armstrong, J. F.
Barkley, A.
Beryesa, J. S.
Borden, R. E.
Bowen, N. S.
Bro'fl'n., Warren
Clark, Geo. R.
Olassen, Henry

Cryan, Thomas
Flippen, J. T.
Fogg, Hiram
Foster, Frank B.
Hastings, L. H.
Hooper, W. A.
Johnson, H. W.
Mills, Hiram

MaC!ure, David
O'Brien, J. C.
Penniman, A. C.
Prince, T. B.
Small, Daniel
Strode, S. E.
Such, Franchi L.

Tennent, John
Thompson, J. H.
Thurn, Cipriano
Tucker, John
Weld, Ed. F.
Wyatt, Wm.
Wood, N. B.-88.

Banning; Phineas · Dodson, A. l\I.
Hereford, T. S.
Barker, B. B.
Jackson, Simon
Brundige, M. D.

Morris, Jacob
Page, Thoe. P.
Mossman, J. L.
Welsh, J.C.
McC!anahan, C. W. Woodworth,W.-12.

WITHDRAWN:

Ferner, Samuel.-1.
DIED:

Vinsonhaler, L. D.-1.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Worth, Geo. F ..-2.

Gibson, Joseph

Hiram Lodge, No. 43.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Butler, David
Cook, Lewis
Rountree, Jno. M. Wittenmyer,~· C.
Caldwell, J. McU. Hunsaker, Jas. C.
-6.

El Dorndo, El Doradu County.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

WITHDRAWN:

Hoffman, Christian Leavitt, Wm. K.
Kendrick, Terrel

Morgan, J. N.

OFFICERS•

Yager, Cornelius
-5 ·

STRICKEN FRO)! ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT Di' DUES:

Lane, James N.-1.
DIED:

Thos. A. Gault, Sen. Deacon,
Jno. R. Crocker, Jun. Deac<m,
Geo. G. Blanchard, Marshal,
Hugh Newell,
l
Wm. K. Leveridge, f Stewarrh,

Darwin Chase, Wor. Ma8ter,
Jos. E. Simmons, Sen. Warden,
W. H. Pavey, Jun. Warden,
Chas. P. Jaokson, Treasurer,
Thos. J. Orgon, &cretary,

B. Hammel, fyler.

Wood, R. N.-1.

Post lllDSten 1

O. B. Westcott,

R. Hull,

Chas. Meredith.

MASTER MASONS:

Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42.
Loa Angele•, Loa Angelee County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

Anderson, Robert Cohn, Myer
Anderson, Stephen Dexter, Lorenzo
Dorsey, T. S.
Annable, J. W.
Fiske, H. M.
Barlow, G. W.
Foster, Theron
Bates, B. F.
Gardner, I.
Bean, John
Ha.II, Calvin
Berg, Emanuel
Hinman, M. D.
Boyd, Charles
Huber, John
Cohn, A.

FELLOW CRAFT:

OFFICERS 1

Henry N. Alexander, Wor. Master,
Benjamin S. E11ton, Sen. Warden,
Samuel Prager, Jun. Warden,
Julius L. Morris, Jreamrer,

James H. Lander, Secretary,
William H. Perry, Sen. DeaC011,
Samuel Meyer, Jun. Deacon,
Perry Switzer, fyler.

J.B. Winston,

Allanson, H. S.
Barker, Thoe. G.
Bishop, S. A.
Brent, Jos. L.
Carson, Geo. II.
Clark, A.H.
Dean, Peter
Foster, Timothy
Gass, 0. D.
Gilchrist, Ira
Goldberg, H.
Goodman, M. L.

Hnle, Chas. E.
Hamilton Henry
Hartman 'Isaac
Henders~n A. J.
Hodges, A'. P.
Johnson, W. l\f.
Knlisher Wolf
Keller Matthew
Laventhal. Elias
Marks, B. ·
Morris, James
Morris, Moritz

Hancock, Henry
Lobheim, Samuel

Reed, James

Thos. Foster,

Dodge, J. W.-l.
ENTERED APPRENTICl'JS.

Ches)lire, Robert

Hannam, W. W.-2.
WITHDRAWN:

Bean, Willio.m

Po&t l\IDStel's.

Lewis Granger,

Lasky, M.
Norton, D. E.
Lee, H. T.
Price, William
Lutnesky, Vincent Reibsaum, Wm.
Maxey, J. B.
Steuben, Zane
Merritt, H. W.
Waterfield, Thos.
Miller, J. H.
Wetherwax, J . M. B.
McCormick, Jas.
White, G. C.
Mcintyre, R. G.
Wyatt, G. W.-49.
Nichols, Jeremiah

Mason, T. S.-2.

Jacob Elins.

MASTER MASONS :

McFarlan~, J. ~·
Scott, J. R.
McLaughlm, Hiram Shackno, Cha.s.
Newmark, H. C.
Shore, John W.
Norton, Moses
Smith, W. A.
Pesunte, Julian
Stanley, J . Q. A.
Peterson, Wm. H. Stewnrd, J.
Portugal, Adolph Turner, Jno. B.
Potter, William
Waite, Jas. L.
Raine, John
Wettergreen, F.
Rich, Jacob
Wilson, B. D.-57.
Sainsevain, Louis

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Shelly, Alfred

[182]

Thompson, J"s.- .5 .

Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44.
Snn Francisco, Sim Frnnclaco County.

Stated Meetings, second Wednesday in each month.
OFFICERS1

Philip W. Shepheard, Wor. Master,
S. M. Keifer, S~. Deacon,
J.E. Terrell, Sen. Warden,
James Hunter, Jun. Dearon,
Geo. U. Hickox, Jun. Warden,
Ole Bergson, Marshal,
W. Melvin Smith, Treasurer,
C. Cameron, l
Henry L. Davis, S ecretary,
Alex. ~aton, f Steward•,
S. W. Holladay, Chaplain,
Joel Noah, (of Occidental Lodge, No. 22,) Tykf'.

.

(183J

404

RETURNS OF SUBORDlNATE LObGES TO THE

[May,

1858.)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

405

Pait Masters &

P. W. Shepheard, D. G. M.
C. R. Saunders,

Reuben Clark,
Jos. Shannon,

Crescent Lodge, No. 45.

E. A. Theiler,
C. T. Wilson.

CJrescent Cllty, Del Norte CJounty.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

MASTER MASONS :

Abrahamson, P.
Ackley, Lyman
Alexander, J. D.
Atwill, J. F.
Babcock, B. E.
Badger, Wm. G.
Barman, Jonas
Bass, Thomas J.
Batchelder, L. L.
Bee, A. W.
Bemis, C. C.
Bennett, R. H.
Berkie, L. H.
Blum, Charles
Birgham, A.
Bourne, J. B.
Brittain, J. W.
Brooks, J. K.
Brooks, R. C.
Burkhead, W. N.
Burrows, 0. H.
Bush, David
Campbell, A. C.
Canfield, J. G.
Clarke, A. H.
Cohen, S. H.
Cogliandoli, F.
Coker, Edward

Corser, C.R.
Kenny, George L. RandolphjW. .C1
Cox, J. W.
King, Minor
Reichert, . A.
King, Richard
Robinson, J. C.,
Creighton, F.
Dahlman, Charles Krahe, W.A.
Ruggles, J. ,E.
Kuchel, C.
Davis, E. S.
Sawyer, E. D.
Laurie. J. R.
Davis, J.P.
Scarborough, J. W.
Dean, E. S.
Lent, Silas
Scovill, H . W.
Loomis, W. E.
Sherk, Louis
Devinn~ James
Luddington, G. C . Silverthorn, W. H.
Doane, arles
Eayrs, H . P.
Lumbeck, S.
Smith, E. L.
Martin, Wilmot
Smith, Hezekiah
Everard, James
Marx, Samuel
Flint, Wilson
Smith, Leonidas
May, Joseph
FobesG. P.
Sunder; George
Folk, Solomon
Merrill, J. M.
Swain,J. H.
Franz, Bernard
Meyerfeld, M.
Tewksbury, J. M.
Michael, Aaron
Tobias, A. S.
Fry, George
Moses, B. F.
Torrence, John
Gardner, S. C.
MacCrellish, F.
Garrison, W. R.
Umber., Charles
McKenzie, J. T.
Vollum, G. W.
Gilman, A. III.
Nagle, G.D.
Waldhams. William
Gordon, James
Nelson, G. H.
Hall, Milton Jr.
Walton, John
Newcomb, C. fl.
Hawley, C. A.
Wells, G. W.
Nias, G. E.
White, Martin
Hedges, G. M.
Wiggins, C. L.
Owens, P.A.
Higgins, G. E.
Howard, Benjamin Prichard, S. H.
Willet, E. W.
Proschold, Charles Wooley, L. M. H.
Humphreys, L.
Radston,
Jacob
Hutchins. U. P.
Wright, A. S.-127.
Raimond, R. E.
Kaplan, Louis

Bills, H. C.
Jones, L. D.

Judah, C. D.

Past lllasters 1

Bell, P. W.
Butler, A. J.
Fletcher, E. P.
Gilkey, L.B.
Goldman, M.

E. Mason.
MASTER MAWNS:

~ahn, S.

Ottenheimer, Jul. Stateler, J . W.
Peveler, P.H.
Vorlander, E.
Pierce, S. B.
Wall, J. G.
Montgomery-, L. D. Smith, W . D. L. F. Whipple. S. G.-27.
Myers, Wilham
·
ar~, H. M.
L ew1s,
D. C.

FELWW CRAFTS:

Morford, R. B.--2.

Heilner, Siegmund

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Hoover, D.

Murphy, P.

Watkins, L. D.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Church, S., T.
Gilmore, 'I. B.

Holton, D.S.
Jackson, T. A.

Mann, J. F.
McComb, D. W.

N

ordheimer,'"B.-7.

STRICKEN FROlI ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Lawton, G. T.-1.

Texas Lodge, No. 46.

Woods, G. W.-5.

San Juan, Monterey County.
ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Barrow, Samuel
Blake, G. W.
Brady, J.B.

Chipman, C.
Cole,N. W.
Dehon, T. M. J.

Gilbert, J. A.
Sheftpard, John
Haskell, Leonidas Sul ivan, J . W.
Moulton, Josiah
Upton, E. A.-12.

WITHDRAWN:

Abrams, J. C.
Blaisdell, H. G.
Birch, William
Davies, J. S.

Godfrey, William
Hollings, C. H.
Hooley, R. M.
Hopkins, M.

Lee, Harvey
Love, Jno. S.
Martin, J. M.
Morganstein, M.

O'Brien, J,
Rand, Chas. E.
Robinson, T. P.
Thurber, E. R.- 16.

STRICKEN FitOM ROLL EOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Brown, J.E.
Cowen, P.

H. Friedman, Secretary,
J. A. Lord, Sen. Deacon,
Fr. Nauche, Jun. Deacon,
N. Tack, Tyler.

E. Y. Naylor,

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Sparrow, Thomas

OFFICERS:

E. Mason, Wor. Ma&ter,
L. M. Preston, Sen. Warden
B. Goldsmith, Jun, Warden'
C. L. Krutli, Trt!IUUrer,
'

DeBBau, J. H.
Hyam, B. D.

Kewen, E. J. C.
DIED:

Charrington, W. H.-1.

Martin, G. T.-6.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
W. B. L. Clarke, Wor. ,l{Q8ter
G. W. Russell, Sen. Wartkn '
J. J . Lindsey, Jun. Warden'
J. T. Clarke, Treaaurer,
'

OFFICERS•

J. P. Lane, S~et.ary,
J. T. Collins, Sen. Dea!!on
Geo. E. Bennett, Jun.·Ddicon
Jas. A. Webb, Tyler.
'
Past lllnster 1

W. B. L. Clarke.
Ashley, D.R.
Barton, John
Bennett, W. C.
Black, J . S.
Butterfield. J.
Campbell, J, L:

MASTER MASONS:

Cervantes, A. L.
F uhlgam, G. F.
Hill, Jesse
Hubbard, W. G.
Hunt, John
Johnson, J. L.

Jordan, F.
Matthew R L
Mylar, I~ra~l ·
McFadden, O. P.
Page, John
Shaw, T. J.

Stone, M.
Taylor, R. B.
Turner, J. H.
Williams, E. L.
WillialTl8Bon, Wm.
-31.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Jones, H . S.-1.

[184] '

Abbey, A.
Bain, W.R.
Bryant, B.

24

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Bur~s, S. H .

Carlisle, Robert
Curtis, W.

Day, T. W.
Head S C
' · ·

[185)

Reynolds, E. A.
Sargent, J. P.-10,

406

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[Muy,

Chism, J.E.
Chism, J. V.

Franklin, J. S.

:Joyce, W.W.

Mylar, Isaac
Norris, Jas. A.

Michigan Blu11"s, Placer County.

Stated M~tings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

J. T. Higbee, Wor . .Master,
P. D. Butler, Sen. Warden,
David Taggard, Jun. Warden,
Jacob Levin, Preaaurer,
F. E. Noble, Swretary,

J. W. BFd, Sen. Deacon,
Jas. S. Stackhouse, Jun. Deacrm,
E. T. Darling, l Steward&,
J. H. Brown. f
Benjamin :Wllite, 'l'yler.
Past lUaater 1

Benjamin Bonnet.

lllake, C. T.
Burland, Robert
Coburn, S. S.
Collins, S. W.
Cooley, J.B.
. Drurey, J. W.
Bates, Cba1·les

Case, S. R.

.Bell, J. W.

.John F. Damon,

Jacob Mayer.

MASTER MA~ONS:

Harnett, S.
Bloomingdale, E.
Brandt, B. L.
llreslauer, H.
Caro, W.
Carter. R. W.
Cohen, F. J.
Conn, Solomon
Coleman, E.
Cook, Charles
Craner, S.
Duxbury, E. C.
Falkenstein, Hy.
Fisher, B.
Frankenthal, M.
Fulda, R.
Gambitz, K.

Garwood, J. S.
Mar9al, J.
Godchaux, L.
Mendel, W.
Goldsmith, L.
Meyer, M.
Greenberg, L.
McKenna, John
Henriquez, A.
Newman, E.
Houseman, J amea Oppenheim, M.
Hunter, W. T.
Pearce, R. R.
Justh, H.
Peck, R.
Kalisher, E. D.
Reese, Michael
King, Thomas
Roesing, E. L.
Rosenstock, S. W.
Levy, 8.
Lewis, H. M.
Sheler, G.
Lewis; Fred.
Hichel," M.
Livingston, 111.
::lilverstone, S.
Loewenstein, J.
Smiley, G. W.
Mannn, S.
Solomons, S.

Sporberg, M.
Steinhart, Wm.
Steppacher, M.
Sutro, G.
Tichnor, L.
Trapet, R.
Triest, B.
Ublfelder, S.
Van Vleck, A.
Wally, D.
Weiler, L.
Willis, Ed.
Wolf, A.
Wolf, B.
Wolf, Jno. L.
Zelle, Jno.-7i.

l'ELLOW CRAFTS;

MASTER MASONS :

Edgington, A. M. McCormick, J. D.
Falkner, Zach.
McCoy, J. P.
Ferguson, Curry
McCullock, G. K.
Freeman, Jno. E. Peck, Chas. M.
Halligan, D. M.
Pool, A. W•
Hyland, P. G.
Reid, C C.
Kloppinburg, D. W. Reinstein, S.
Loyd, E. H.
Shain, Warren
Lytle, Thompson Shaw, Philo D.
Moor, John
Shawl, Mark
McCollum, N.
Shepard, R. D.

Adams, J. Q.
Baker, J. H. ·
Bartlette, E. H.
Beery, Joseph

Pnat Masters 1

Story, E. F •.
Wise, A.-8.

Michigan City Lodge, No. 47.

407

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA.

WITHDRAWN:

Smith, Chas. A
Smith, W. Guy
Stewart, J. K.
Stoner, Philip
Swan, Chas. A.
Thomas, Morgan
Thomas, William
Tyler, Edwin
Waters, J. W.
Watkins, Cyrus
Whyte, M. M.-55.

Levy, Emanuel

Sharp, L.

Torres, E.-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Fell, E. L.

Meyer, Wm.

Roas, E. R.

Wallace, J. S.-4

WITHDRAWN :

Cohn, L.M.
Gutte, Isidor

Hotchins, Tom

Pecare, M.--5.

Jacoby, W.

SUSPENDED BY ORDER OF THE GRAND MASTER.

Mayer, Joseph-1.

ENTERED APPJtENTICES:

Jones, W. H.-~.

Greer, Jae. A.

Forbestown Lodge, No. 50.

WITHDRAWN:

Hancock, J. H.

Passmore, W. H.

Whiting, D. L.-3.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT 01' DUES:

Jones, E. R.

Weis, Jacob-2.
DIED:

Low, Chas. A.

Mason, A. A.-2.

Forbeatown, Butte County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Pull Moo11.
OFFICERS1

H. W. Brown, Wor. Mast,er,
W. L. Panton, Sen. Warden.
John Whealdon, Jun. Warden,
Samuel Bowers, Treruurer,

R. C. Gaskill, Set:rel4ry,
William Snyder, &n. Deacon,
E. B. Sparkes, Jun. Deacon;
C. 0 . Foot, Tyler.

Pnot lUnatcrs ;

*Lebanon Lodge, No. 49.
Snn Frnnclsco, Snn Frnncl8"o County.

Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month..
OFFICERS 1

Louis Cohn, Wor . .Master,
Henry Adler, Sen. Deacon,
P. A. Benjamin, Sen. Warden,
Henry Weil, Jun. DMcrm,
Henry J. Labatt, Jun. Warden,
A. Rosenfi~ld, MarBhal,
M. ~gutter, Treasurer,
S. Mayer, l Steward&,
B Simon Swretary,
D. Abrams, f
·
'
'
·Joel Noah, (of Occidental Lodge, No. 22,) Tyl.er.
*Charter revoked, May, A. L. 6Sr.s.

Ll86l

A. G. Simpson,

H. W. Brown.

JllASTER MASONS :

ll!oomfleld, L.
Harris, Jehial
Borge, Jas. P.
Hillman, George
Callaghan, Samuel Jones, John
Dorland, T. J.
Jordan, W. H.
Gronsel, Andrew Lillard, J.M.
Guthrie, J . P .

McMillan, Jae.
Plum, N. D. .
Roundtree, John
Sharp, J. N.
Sutherland, John

~'ELLOW

Walch, Michael
Watson, J. A.
Wilson, H. W.
Wilson, M. W.
Winkler, Aug.-30.

CltAFT :

Preston, Samuel-1.
WITlIDRAWN:

King, J . N. H.
Abney, James

Saucet, Henry

Thrasher, J. T.-i!.

DIE]} :

McKee, David-2.

(187]

.'
408

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

409

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Illinoistown Lodge, No. 51.

SUSPENDED:

Moose, J. L.-1.

Illlnolsto-wn, Pincer County,

DIED:

Stated Meetings, first Saturday in each montlt.

Hamlin, G. A.-1.

OFFICERS:

Geo. W. Applegate, Secretary,
A. L. Hodge, Sen. Deacon,
L. D. Brown, Jun. Deacon,
B. Brickell, Tyler.

Jehoiakim Jones, Wor. Master,
William M. Stewart, Sen. Warden,
J. D. Hitton, Jun. Warden,
E. J. Brickell, 'flreasurer,

St. James Lodge, No. 54.

Pnst Mn&ters :

Jehoiakim Jones,

GeQ.. W. Applegate.

Jameato-wn, Tuolumne Cow1ty.

lll:ASTER MASONS:

Baldwin, J. W.
Banks, E. L.
Bigham, Joshua
Burge, Jas. T.
Campbell, W. B.
Carter, Jackson

Cate, J. K.
Cheesbro, A.
Cook, J. W.
Dow, W.
Fish, Franklin

Himes, W.A.
Lewis, P.
Moore, B. F.
McNally, John
Quinn, A. V.

Quirk, William
Rice, Charles
Sherman, A. J,,
Smith, R.A.
Wynn, J. Y.-29.

Stated M_eetings, second Friday in each month.
OFFICERS 1

John J. Willis, Wor. Master,
Wm. D. Newton, Sen. Warden,
William Dunphy, Jun. Warden,
Benjamin Randall, 'flreamrer,

G. Joseph, Secretary,
E. Sharrock, Sen. D«iC1>11 1
William G. Lon_g, Jun, Deacon,
G. B. Wyman, 1'yler.

'WITHDRAWN:

Bradley, E. L.

Hammond, L. G.-2.

Past Masters 1

John J. Willis,

Wm. D. Newton.
MASTER MASONS:

Rough and Ready Lodge, No. 52.

Haxter, L. J.
Deretti, William
Brunton, Thos. C.
Donels, Thos.
Emanuel, Henry
Fleming, J. W.

Rough and Ready, Nevadn County.

Poretti, David
Quinn, J.M.
Severa, Francis
Turk, James H.
Wing, Stephen
Wolf, Casper-32.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next succeeding Full Moon.

Myers, M.

Simmons, F, H.-2.
IrnTERED APPREN'fICES:

OFFICEH.Sa

E.W. Roberts, Wor. Master,
S. P. Jackson, Sen. Warden,
S. M. Gilham, Jun. Warden,
C. Beckman, 'flreasurer,
William Coombe, Secretary,

Gibbon, Thos. J. Myers, John
Hildreth, Thos.
Nye, A. R.
Howard,. J. A.
Pareira, John
Parks, E.
Keith, A. J.
Leland, Adolphus Pope, Ebenezer
Marie, J. B.
Pope, Wm. A.

Wm. D. Washburne, Sen. Dtaron,
S. S. Heyden, Jun. DelJCQTI,
H. C. Melborne, Marshal,
H. Schardin, } Stewards
E. Robins,
'

John Murphy, Tyl.er.

Ackerman, Isaac
Lake, G. P.

Paine, W.
Parsons, J as.

Rogers, E. A.

Tribou, G. F.-6.

.

WITIIDRAWN :

Bettis, O. J.
Claiborne, J. W.
Danziger, Henry

Grogan, Peter
Lea, Jno. C.
Maltby, J.

Scott, Chas. L.
8pencer, J. tJ.

Stonecipher, P.
Willi8, Thos. N.-10.

Pnst Masters 1

A. C. Kean,

J. K. Smith.

MASTER MASONS:

Ashburne, H. A.
Ault, W. C.
Bernadotte, E. J.
Boyce, S. V.
Boyce, W. P.
Clarke, N. W.
Coffey, William
Congleton, A. C.

Ebright, J, H.
French, S. P.
Harper, D. E.
Heritage, Jos.
Hoffman, H.
lnskip, W. S.
King, George
Lowenthal, L.

Merrill, M.
Montgomery, Jno.
McAllis, Jno.
McCracken, J.
Nathans, B.
Owens, Jas.
Smith, J. L. P.

Stewart, A.
Taylor, C. O.
Troxel, B. B.
Van Hagan, J.B.
Weaver, George
Weil, A.
Young, P. R.-43.

Suisun Lodge, No. 55.
Suisun, Solnno County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS I

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Crabtree, B.

Hoadly, W.

Jinson, A.

Scott, W. C.-4.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Lund, L. W.

Willing, L.-2.

P. O. Clayton, Wor. Master,
Nathan Cutler, Sen. Warden,
Philip Palmer, Jun. ' Warden,
J. B. Lemon, 'flreasurer,

WITIIDRA WN :

Congleton, J.E.

[188)

Marsh, P. P.-2.

J.M. Jones, Secretary,
G. G. GardQer, Sen. Deacon,
G. W. Cord, Jun. Deacon.
James Calvin, Tyler.
'
Pnst Ma1ters 1

Nathan Cutler,

Charles Maul.

[1891

410

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[Ma,v,

MASTER MASONS :

Aldrige, Frank
Anderson, A. P.
Booth, David
Brown, C. W.
Brown, W. B.
Carberry, J. J.
Chadborn, Jos.
Clark, C. P.

Cochran, R. M.
Cutler, Jn.cob
Garnett, J. L.
Gessner, Wm.
Hall, R. K.
Hayes, R, K.
Jackson, A. P.

Jackson, F. L.
Keeny, J. M.
Manka, C.
Mekiseick, J. P.
Owen, J . W.
Reeves, D. D.
Rice, H. Il.

Robinson, John
Rush, Hiram
Ruseell, Henry
Smith, S.S.
Thomas, Benj.
Winchel, Amos
Wolfscale, Milton
-38.

l'ELLOW CRAFTS:

Hall, C. W.

Williams, N. P.-1.

OFFICERS1

Joseph H. Griggs, Wor. MaM.er, .
William M. Holmes, Sen. Warden,
Matthew Henderson, Jun. Warden,
J ohn Hendley, 1Teasurer,

William Churchman Secretary
A. J. Mothershead,
De,aco:i,
J. T. Jones, Jun. Deacon,
John G. Huff', Tyler.

Sen.

Past l'lla1tcrs1

W. D. Deering.

MASTER MASONS:

WITHDltAWN:

Long, John-3.

Hayes, G. W.

Volcano Lodge, No. 56.

Barnes, E. H.
Blair, Thos. N.
Bledsoe, A. C.
Brown, J'ohn
Calhoun, J. W.
Ce.mP.bell, J. A.
Ce.rr1llo, Julio
Cook, J. G.
Crowell, W. H.

Dooley, E. M.
Larabee, H. P.
Neal, James
Fife, Andrew
Laughlin, J. M.
Ormsby, J. S.
Fisher, Fenwick
Lockley, E. B.
Prewitt, James
Fulkerson, Riche.rd Long, M. A.
Reynolds, Je.s. A.
Matthews, C. W.
Hereford, E. W.
Sanders, G. P.
Mize, Merrill
Holmes, Calvin
Smith, Isaac P.
Ingram, John
' Moore, Wm. H.
Smith, Jehiel
Kennedy, J. P.
Morehouse, J. C.
Thompson, J. D.
Lambert, H. F.
llfcPee.k, Matthew West, Se.muel-48.

Campbell, J. P.

Hendrix, E.W.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Volcano, Alnador County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

J. W. Bicknell, Wor. Master,
Charles Wilson, Sm. Warden,
C. J. Hubbard, Jun. Warden,
A. Thaurkauf, Treasur1rr,

Santa Rosa, Sonoma County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.

Achille Richardson, Joseph H. Griggs, Edward Fisher,
John G. Huff;
S.S. Todd,

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

C1\rberry, A.

Santa Rosa Lodge, No. 57.

McKune, H . E.-3.

Lewis, Richard

411

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Robert Stewart, Secretary,
W. S. Rynerson, Sen. Demxm.,
S. H. Hunt, Jun. De,acon,
L. C. M. Kelly, Tyler.

Bamford, W.
Beldin, J. W. C.
Carson, Lindsey

Lovegrove, C. D. P. Wentworth, F. W.-4.

WITHDRAWN:

Cash, Job
Cock, Wm. H.
Harris, E. D. ·

Hartman, J . W.
McMe.nus, J. G.
Noell, W. H.

Nuckelds, N.
Pa.trick, J. F.
So.ndheimer, M. E.

-12.

SUSPENDRD:

McDonald, D.-1.

Past l'llasten 1

.r. Orton,

J . W. Bicknell, J. G. W.
MASTER MASONS :

Aram, John
Armstrong, David
Baldwin, J. W.
Clark, Isaac
Foster, Jno. A.

Henry, E. F.
Longinotti, M.A.
Johnson. Anderson Munckton, George
McKee, Amos
Jones, W. H.
Reichling, Francis
King, G. W.
Logan, P. F.
Rose, A. W.

Steward, Thomas
Tullock, James
Vance, Riche.rd
Welch, J. N.
White, John-29.

Un.ion Lodge, No. 58.
Sacramento, Sacramento County,

Stated Mee#ngs, jfrat Wednesday i1i each Month,

· FELLOW CRAFT:

OFFICERS •

Foster, Joseph-I.
ENTERED .APPRENTICES:

Burdon, 11.
Christian, R. C.
Cool, P. Y.

Dongle, William
Harden, A. L.
Goff', E.
Low, A. II.
Goldsworthy, Jas. Maddock, Joseph

Pike, J.C.
Spaulding, N. W.
Springer, T. A.-12.

Riche.rd De.le, Wor. Master,
Jesee Morrill, Sen. Warden,
Harris De.vis, Jun. Warden.
L. Lehman, Treaaur1rr,
·
T. Steadman, Secretary,

WITHDRAWN:

Ayer, Washington
Bell, S. A.
Briggs, S. G.
Chapman, A. L.
Clements, David
Drey, E.

Griswold, J. N.
Hudson, W.
Isa.ace, R.
Johnson, Irwin
Land, A. L.
Latham, O.

Milligan, J.
Myers, Abraham
Page, John D.
Payne, B. W.
Pendleton, J. C.
Reed, W. D.

Ross, A.
Shacklett, G. W.
Rwanger, S.
Tebbs, Moses
Walker. G. R.
Wertz, G.-U.

STRICKkN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMXNT OF DUES:

Champion, J. C.

Douglass, M. A.

Torner, S. L.

(190]

Williams, .T. P.-4.

J. Eppinger, Sen. Deacon,
Moses Goldstein, Jun. Deacon,
A. Egl, Marahal,
L. D. Berwln, Steward,
Past l'llaaters-,- - - - -,Tyler.

J . H. Ralston,

Jesse Morrill.

MASTER MASONS :

Alexander, James
Bruki, Lewis
Fitzpatrick, John
Flohr, Andrew
Goodkind, M.

Haines, J;W.
Kalmuck, Moritz
Koppikus, A.
Korn,L.
Le.venson, S.

Lewis, Lewis
Lobenstein, Lewis
Loryee., Joseph
Lyons, Julius
Meyers, S. A.

. FEI,LOW CRAFT:

Conklin, J. M.-1.

[191]

McMahon, P.
Thiele, H. G.
Thompson, W. A.
Windrich, T.
Wormser, I.-30.

412

RETURNS OF Sti110RD1NATE LODGES TO TltE

[May,

1858.J

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Meserve, Thomas

Mitchell, A. H.

Ryan, C.-3.

Thoe. E. Haydon,

WITIIDRAWN:

Fredericka, Jos.
Galland, A.

Haines, G.
Horan, Thomas

413

Past Masters 1

S. H. Bancroft.
MASTER MASONS:

Jackson , J. W.
Keller, Levi

Bass, J.M.
Bass, Richard
Bass, Stephen D.
Byers,J. D.
Caulkins, Silas
Clark, N.C.
Davis, E. J.
· Dickson, John

Kohn, Markus
Steinfurth, Henry
-!8;

Dillnur, George
Lawrence, J .
Doran, W. M.
Lovejoy, Jno. K.
Gholson, Wm. M. McDonald, A. D.
Gilkey, Wm. L.
O'Donnell, Jas.
Hargrave, A.
Rawson, Charles
Kingsbury, Wm. C. Rees, E. M.
Lacey, Thoe. D.
Root, John S.

Shannon, Tbos. D . .
Sharp, James
Smyth, R. D.
Taylor, Joseph
Ward, John S.
Ward, T. E.
Wi!mans, D. J.-38.

ENTERED APPRENTJCES:

Bradley, J. M.
Davis, J. H.
Dullard, L. J.
Jacks, Richard
Coldthwost, Isaac McElwain, E . F .

Gravel Range Lodge, No. 59.
Camptonvllle, Yubo. County,

Stated Meetings, Monday of or ne3:t preceding Full Moon.

Sterling, E. C.
True, T. J.-11.

WITHDRAWN :

Boyd, James
Bradbury, A.
Burton, L. M.
Dean, W. S.

OFFICERS1

P. McNulty, Wor. !rfast,er,
H. S. Everett, Sen. Warden,
J. H. Williams, Jun. Warden,
W. Stevenson, Tr<!amrer,

Platt, M.
Sawyer, W. D.
Smith, Morris

J. P. Brown, &cretary,
J. M. Black, Sen. IJeaC011,
W.W. Allis, Jun. IJ=n,
J . Bradford, Tyler.

Gloyd, D. J.
Harper,.B. M.
Ives, L.
Jarrett, J. H.

Kaulback, C.
Mumford, James
Patton. - Pierce,' E. H.

Ray, James F.
Simmons, J. W.
Taylor, P.-15.

Past lllastcrs •

J. R. Vance,

William Elwell.

Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.

MASTER MASONS:

Beaman, G. H.
Bowlby, S. J.
Buckley, P. H.
Buster, H.
Davneal, E. M.
Dunn, J. A.
Ford, W. J.
Foye, W.R.
Gillespie, J. M.

Gillfellan, A.
Graham, W. H.
Hicks, W. J.
Hubbs, J. C.
Kendall, A.
Morgan, L. R.
McLellan, J. G.
McMurray, V. C.

O'Hara, C.
Pratt, Hartwell
Shuler, William
Slingerl:md, J . S.
Smith, Wm. l!'.
Spencer, S.
Sterritt, J. W.
Terrall, J. C.

Ooklond, Aia'meda1County.

Twigg, C. A.
Variel, J. H.:i.
Walton, G. w.
Washburn, P. L.
Webber, R. N.
Woods, W. T.
Wooster, D.
Young, N. G.--43.

Stated Meetings, first Friday in each montli.
OFFICERS&

S, H. Robinson, Wor. .Master.
J. E. Whitcher, Sen. Warden;
F. K. Shattuck, Jun. Wardtn, ·
J.P. M. Davis, TreaBUrer,

Past lllasten 1

Isaac E. Paddock,
FELLOW CRAl!TS:

Jones, T. L.

Moody, J. W.

H. A. Higley,

S. B. McKee,

McDevitt, A. D.

Parker, iU.'

Scott, John

Stratton, Jas. T.-1.

WITHDRAWN:

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Hersherg, 8.-1.

Lockwood, W. G. Somerville, J.-7.
Myers, George

WITHDRAWN :

Evans, C. W.

Thos. E. Haydon, Secretary,
John S. Ward, Sen. Deacon,
J. H. Houck, Jun. IJeacon,
A. S. Titus, Tyler.

L. C. Charles, Wor. lrftUter,
J. H. Whitlock, Sen. Wardm,
John S. Vaughan, Jun. Wardm,
P . O. Hundley, Treamrer,

l192l

Kellersberger, J.

Lacey, D. S.-4.

Chinese, Tuolumne County,

Q,ulncy, Plumas Cowaty.
OFFICERS&

Huerstell, L.

George Washington Lodge, No. 62.

Plumas Lodge, No. 60.
Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

Yard, G. M.-16.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Crawford, S. G ....:....1.
Keine, L. F.
Leventhal, H.

M. Fallon. ·

MASTER MASO:!\'S:

Thompson, W. W.-3.

ENTEltED APPRENTICE :

Fiske, Nathan
Files, J.

F. Warner, Secretary,
G. M. Blake, Sen. IJ«=n,
S. B. Bell, Jun. IJeacon,
P. Hays, Tyler. ·

..

Stated ¥eetings, firat Saturday in- each month.
OFFICERS 1

S. M..Buck, Wor. .Master,
H. 8. Brooks, Sen. IJeacon,
Thomas Cutler, Sen. Warden,
Stephen Malony, Jun. IJeaCOfl,
Theo. F. Po~ers, Jun. Wart:kn,
John Taylor, lrfarahal,
C. W. H. Solmsky, Treamrer,
Hiratn Garrett, l
Henry E. Lea, Secretary,
Joseph T. Ivory, f Stewarda,
John 'C. Lea, Tyler.
25
ll93l

414:

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1868.J

Paat Maatcr1

Natoma Lodge, No. 64.

S. M. Buck.
~IASTER

Adams, P.H.
Colton, William
Cooper, Charles
Dorsey, Thos. B.
G11~hwiller, J. W.

Folaotn, Sacratnento County.

MASOI'CS:

Lewis, W. T.
Peacock, I. C.
Liscomb, B. C.
Rice, Charles
Love, R. K.
Shreeves, G. W.
Matchin, T. N.
Sprague, .Jos.
Mollyneaux, Robt.

Taggett, J. C.
Tannehill. J.
Vedder, Daniel
Walker, W. G.-29.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Boat, J.
Cohen, Joseph
Friedman, A.

OFFICERS 1

L. Bate~. Wor. Master,
W. W. Sheldon, Sen. Warden,
H. N. H. Brown, Jun. Warden,
D. Waldenberg, Preasurer,

Klasky, M.
Lampson, - - -

Alfred Spinks,

SUSPENDED :

Bossert, Peter A.-1.

L. Bradley.

~lASTlllB MASONS:

McCulloch, --~'I.

Smith, J. B.-8.

Graham, M. R.

George L. Napier, Secutary,
William H. Stone, Sen. D11acon,
S. G. Elliott, Jun. Deacon,
Loftus Campbell, Tykr.
Pnst M ....tera :

M. Wallace,

WITHDRAWN:

Adams, J. W.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Dorsey, John-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Beckwith, - - Bookshier, J. B.

415

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFOBNIA.

Allen, Robert
Berry, Jas. H.
Bogar, Chas. S.
Clark, Isaac
Curran, Hugh

Franchere, E.
Greenwood, E.
He.11, Ce.lvin
Hatch, Moses

GrRgg, R. W.

01·r, John

Holzinger, Jfrecl.
Kullman, L.
Logan, Samuel
Ricke.rd, Rd.

Robinson, J. S. S.
Rulison, E.
Sawtelle, M. A.
Swart, J. A.-28.

FELLOW CRAl!'TS:

DIED:

Raymond, William.-1.

Osborn, C. E.

Ott, J obn-4.

E:STERED APPRENTICES:

Brown, William
Dennison, J. W.
Colwell, Angnstuli Elmer, Geo. A.
Cox, Geo. M.

Humphries, J. H.
Quigley, B. C.

Richards, A. H.
Walker, William-~.

WITHDRAWN:

Corey, Geo. W.

Hardesty, Samuel

*Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63.

Rouse, J. W.-3.

SUSPENDED:

Campau, A. A.-1.

lown Hlll, Placer County,

DIED:

Stat6d Meetings, Wednesday next pre~eding Full Moon.

l<'lnk, Jno. A.-1.

OFFICERS a

J. W. Johnston, Secrdary,
D. M. Ford, Sen. Dea1:on,
L. M. Henry, fun. De=,
James Swartwout, 1\jltr.

Geo. Johnston, Wor. Master,
Wm. D. Lawrence, Sen. Warden,
G. L. Hamlin, Jun. Warden ,
Squire Powell, Preasurer,

Past. Maatc1·a 1

Geo. Johnston,

H. W. Roberts,

E. Alexander.

Amador Lodge, No. 65.

MASTER MASO:SS:

Arnold, 0. P.
Coleman, F-dward
Coleman, J. C.
Collins; J. B.
F-dward, P. J.
Bsmond, W. J.

Hall, G. W.
Hatch, G.1''.
Hillier, C. H.
Housel, W. A.
Johns, T. M.
Lackey, W. A.

Ladd, H. C.
Manse, F. C.R.
Morrison, R.
McCullongh, A.
Olmstead, O. P.
O'Neil! James .

Rudolph, G.
Scott, W. A.
Sheridan, G. M.
Striker, John
Vanderlip, Ed.
Waterm11n, Philip
-84,

FELLOW · CRAFTS :

Cook, R. M.

King, Cbarles-2.

Knuland, Jno.
Levings, A. K.

Hill, John T.
Lndd, Theodore

Montgomery, Thos. Smith, S. W.
Trim, R. M.
Parke, F. A.

Murphy, B.
Riley, Michael

Ol<'FICERS 1

W. W. Uopc, Wor. Malter,
S. M. Farmer, Sen. Warden.

M. Levinsky, Sen. Deacon,
M. Brumel, Jun. Deacon,
S. Levy, t «tew -'·
M. Silver, f '" araa,
William. Sharp, 1\jur.

M. J. Little, Jun. Warden, ·
Charles Steckler, 1reaaurer,
Oliver D. Avallne, &r:retary,

PRst lllnatera 1

ENTERED APPRll:NTICE8:

·G rant, H.
Kidd, A. K.

Jnckaon, Atnador County.

Slated Meetings, first Saturday in eaclt 1110-ntlt.

Stewart, D. K.
Tubbs, M. B.-8.

WITHDRAWN:

Warden, L. Y.-7.

I

W.W. Cope,

J as. E. Graham.

MASTER MASONS :

Arretto, Antonio
Brown, J. R.
Cooledge, J. B.

Cooledge, W. S.
Freeman, G. W.
Harris, E. B.

Heming, D.
Hubbard, J. F.
Husband, Bruce

FELLOW CRAFT:

•Charter •urrendered, May, J.. L. 5S58.

Bryant, J oseph-1.

(194]

(195J

Kenner, W. W.
Levinsky, John
Zeh, Geo. C.-23.

416

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[.Vay,

1858.]

ENTERED APPRENTICES.

Bummbe, Jos.

Effner, J.

Beach, David

Beenus, Benj.

Hickey, J.

417

GR.A.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Kelly, A. R.-4.

Minnesota Lodge, No. 67.

Short, Jas.-4.

Stated Meetings, Monday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Mlnneeota, Sierra County.

WITHDRAWN:

Moretto, E. G.

OFFICERS:

Alanson Whelan, Wor. Master,
J. Anderson, Sen. Warden,
P. C. Dun Levy, Jun. Warden,
J. Blackburn, Treasurer,
L. Goodwin, &t:rdary,

W. Allen, Sen. Deacon,
E. A. Meily, Jun. Dencon,
J. D. Holbrook, } St
ds
E. P. Meily,
ewar '
C. McClain, Tyler.
Past Mll.llters:

P. W. Coppers,

Forest Lodge, No. 66.
Fo1·est City, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

D. Van Vrankin, Sen. Deacun, ·
Thos. Kirkpatrick, Jun. Deawn,
P.A. Mauldin, Marshal,
S. Hammo.nd, } Stewards,
J. T. Harrison,
H. H. Chittenden, Tyler.

Geo. W. Hopkins, Wor. Master,
John E. Smith, Sen. Warden,
Anthony Fox, Jun. Warden,
E. Levingston, Treasurer,
George Perkins, &t:rdary,
H. B. Sheldon, Ohapf,ain,

J. S. Blackwell.
lllASTER MASONS:

Conrad, J.
Conway, Jas.
Cooper, J.E.
Crafts, S. S.
Crowe, E.
Davis, B.
. Doose, F.

Ferguson, W. T.
Fordham, H.A.
Gaines, R. C.
Hanchett, L. J.
Harkness, F. C.
Herriman, M. S.
Irwin, L.

Dawson, M.
Edwards, R.

Emerson, J. M.
Madden, Thomas

Bandy, J.
Burmeister, F.
Fish, C.H.

Goldsworthy, J.
Hawley, W. A.
Maes, C. H.

Garretson, J. M.
Lohman, John
Goldsworthy, Wm. Lohman. Peter
Gwin, W.
Macay, John
Patchin, C. H.
Harris, A. P.
Peck, W. D.
Henning, J. S.
Houghtaling, C. J. Pratt, W. P.
Johnson, M. R.
Read, James
Jones, Charles
Read, T. A.
Kersey, Thomas
Said, E.
Kloeker, F. B.
Seltzer, H.
Lang, Frank
Schaffer, P. C.
Lindeaur, A.
Scott, W.

Shaw, F. A.
Shaw, G. W.
Shaw, Jas. S.
Stewart, W. R.
Stillwell, G. W.
Strauss, E. t>.
Swift, S.
Van Doren. V. J.
Winston, T~
Winters, J. D.
Young, J ..C.-62.

Ree.ser, J. R.

Jordan, G. M.
Kempner, I.

Lutz, Jacob
McLain, B. F.

·Fleishacker, A.
Gavenay, Jas.
Lyons, S. M.

Quackenbush, C. L.

-7

Mitchell, Jno.
Perry, S. M.
Stillwell, W. R.

Theall, H. W.
Tyrrill, D. III.
Wattermann, T. A.
-12.

STRICKEN FROll ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Gatewood, T.

Hepperly, G. W.
DIED:

Everheart, G.-1.

L196]

Tyree, J. A.
William, L.-11

DIED:

Morning Star Lodge, No. 68.
Stockton, !!an Joaquin County.
OFFICERS 1

Robertson, J. R.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Allebaugh, Jas.
Bateman, J.C.
Bonham, P.

Myers, C. F.
Olmstead, S. H.
Stilck, H.

Stated Meetings, fourth Thursday in each month.

ENTEltED APPltENTICES:

Hall, S. A.
Johnson, A.

Tague, Henry-6.

Cummisky, P. -1.

FELLOW CRAYl'S:

Kokerno, John

Stilck, F. W.

WITIIDRA WN :

John Kirkpatrick.

M. R. Evans,
MASTER MASONS:

Abby, Geo. H.
Aldrich, Jos.
Ames, A. L.
Baldwin, Jno.
Bowers, Thos. J.
Bryden, W. M.
Cowden, Jas. A.
Davidson, W. H.
Dunlap, R. R.
Eddy, S. R.
Flemming, W. M.
l?oote, L.

Rapp, P.
Riley, W. E.
Ruddell, G. P .
Slinger, W.
Taylor, J.M.
Van Decar,E. H.
--38.

ENTERED APPltENTICES:

PMt MMters 1

J. B. Bope, P. J. G. W.

l\Iiller, Charles
Mccraney, W.
McGeeo, F.
McNulty, H.
Oren, J.C.
Paulfsen, F.

Winters, T.-S.

G. A. Shurtleff, Wor. M(J,/jter,
Thomas R. Eddie, Sen. Deacon,
L. C. Van Allen, Sen. Warden,
John Henderson, Jun. D=on,
E. B. Bateman, Jun. Warden,
V. l\I. Peyton, Mar1hal,
A. Sperry, '/!reasurer,
W. L. Overheiser }
W. T. A. Gibson, Secrdary,
M. H. Bond,
' Steward&,
A. G. Brown, (of San Joaquin Lodge, No. 19,) Tyler.
Lemuel Lyon, P. S. G. W.

Past lllaster• 1
C. ~· Phelps,

C. Carpenter.

MASTER MASONS:

Baggs, W. I\{.
Barry, M. G.
Bennett, A. H.
Blackwell, Wm.
Buffington, J. M.
Burkett, A.
Cooper, C. S.

Driver, Thomas
Gillingham, H. W. Martin, H. H.
Eldridge, Samuel Gray, W. H.
Osborne, T. C.
Fisher, 0.
Hickman, E.
Peachy, G. W.
Fullerton, W. McD. Hoffman, C. H.
Stevenson, R. W.
Gage, A. S.
Huggins, H. T.
Underhill, H. B.
Gage, 0. C.
Landrum, A. J.
Vansykle, J. l\I.
. George, f.
Lynch, D. S.
Wolfe, A.-41.

[197]

418

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1868.J

GRAND LODGE or CALIFORN!A.

419

ENTERED Al'PREN'?ICES :

Anderson, J. A.
Cutting, L. C.

Deslanders, F.

Fowler, R.

Langworthy,' H.--5.

P11.11t Masters•

H. D. Apperson,

J. E. Stevens,

WITHDRAWN :

Neal, W. H.
lJIED:

Vaughn, A. Y.-2 ..

Canders, W. G.-1.

Corinthian Lodge, No. 69.

Apperson, B. C.
Beaty, W. H.
Boon, R. J.
Brown, J. A.
Brown, 0. H. P.
Bullock, J. P.
Burson, Elias
Carlos, R. D.
Craine, Edwin

Crawford, Israel
Cross, S. Z.
Edwards, J. E.
Fisher, Jos.
Fronk, Jno. M.
Gaither , J. W.
Goode, D. B.
Hanson, G. M.
Jeniper, M. T.

Fish, P. W.
Henry, W. A.

Kelsey, A. R.
Lucas, J.B.

Jllaryorvllle, Yuba ()oun ty•

Stated .Meetings, first Tuesday in each month.
OFFICERS:

M. D. Dobbins, Wor. Ma&ter,
D. C. Stone, Sec-r®ry,
E. Woodrow, Sen. Warden,
H. G. Keefer, Sen. DeaCQ11,
R. G. Stanwood, Jun. Warden,
L. E. Dingman, Jun. DMCQ11,
D. A. Elwell, 1l-e;uurer,
F. Schreiber, (of Yuba Lodge, No. 39,) '.flykr.
Colton, C. ·T.

Jones, L. G.
Mathews, John
Myers, G.
McCall, J, B.
McClure, C. C.
Painter, B. B.
Parka, R. F.
Ramey, Isaac

Ream, J . A.
Sanburn. S.
Say, Richard
Shore, S. D.
Taylor, L. W,
Vaughan, C. L. N.
Watson, G. W.
Wood, Ira H.-44.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Nordyke, B. J.

Roland, L. J .-G.

WITllDRAWN:

Hightower, A. S.

Shore, Jas. A.-2.

STRICKEN FROM: ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Dillon, J. P.-1.
DIED:

Pnst Jllruiters •

Allen, James

C. E. Wilcoxon.

MAST.ER MASONS:

Montgomery, Hiram-,1.

Wickersham, W. H. Keefer, H. G.

MASTEi!. MASONS:

Allen, Damascus Greer, Thomas
Belcher, I8aac S. Hatch, F. L.
Brooks, Sy! vester Kenney, Samuel
Brumagim, J. H. Kinsey, Mixsell
Levy, Jacob
Daley, James L.
Lindley, Charles
Decker, Peter
Little, S. H.
Felton, C. N.

Morse, H.
McCormick, T. J.
Mc Govern, Lee
O'Neal, W. T.
Payne, Sumner
Schermier, J.M.

Shl\rkey. William
Thompson, W. P.
Thornburgh,W.B.
Rice, Emmet '.E.
Webb, John J .
Wescoatt, N.-36.

Nebraska Lodge, No. 71.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Haymond, C.
Martin. H. T.

Moore, J. W.

Mccomas, I. T.

llllehlgnn Bar, l!ncrnmeutu County.

.McDaniel, Jno.-5.

· Stated Meetings, second Friday in each month.

WITIIDRA.W:S:

Compton, Jno. D. Holmes, F. S.
Meek, N. D.
Decay, Wm.
Latham, W. B. Jr.

Otis, T. P-'--6

STRICKEN ~'ROM IWLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Foster, J. J.-1.
DIED:

Laird, Luther-I.

OFFICERSt

J. W. Williamson, Wor. Ma&ter,
·- - - -, Sen. Warden,
M. Perry, Jun. Warden,
K. Davidson, Treasurer,

L. E. Doan, Sec-retary,
F. Riley, Sen. Dearon,
D. H. Whittach, Jun. Deacon,
John Healey, Tykr.
PllJlt lllnstcrs t

W. B. Kingsbury,

J.E. Woodford,

R. F. Wayne,

MASTER MASONS :

Enterprise Lodge, No. 70.
Yuba City, Sutter County.

Stated .Meet-ings, Saf:urday of or next preceding Pull 1lfoo11.
OFFICEKSo

A. Il. Davies, Secr®ry,
G. M. Fronk, Sen. Deacon,
James Richards, Jun. Deacon,
J. S. Ramsey, Tyler.

J.E. Stevens, Wor. Mastu,
Milton Bassett, Sen. Warden,
W. P. Wilkins, Jun. Warden,
W. H. Parks, Treamrtr,

fl\18j

Boyd, John
Hoyt, E. C.
Cushing, B. F.
Kyle, S. B.
Duubam. John
Lemon, W. J.
Fuller, C.
Mathews, J. H.
Fitz James, James
Alvord, H.
Bartl'!tt, E. D.
Brown, S. W.
Cotton, J. M.

Parr, Alex.
Pollard, A. A.
Sales, L. C.
Slayback, C. B.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Creek, C. Y.

Reed, Samuel

Stoddard, W. J.
Van Sickle, A. K.
Wentworth, J . G.
Williamson, H. F.
-27.
White, G. G.-5.

WITI!DRA W!\' :

Herrington, H.

Hunter, J.

[199]

Riggs, John-5.

420

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.)

421

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

E. K. Kane Lodge, No. 72.

*Wisconsin Hill Lodge, No. 74.

Ne-vada, Nevw:la County.

Wisconsin Hill, Placer County.

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each month.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS :

Chas. H. Seymour,

OFFICERS a

A. V. Allen, Sen. DeilCMI,
F. W. May, Jun. Deae<m,
A. D. Allen, Marshal,
H. Bruce,
l St r d3
Jno. M. Shuster, f ewar '
Fred. Burmeister, Tyler.

T. H. Rolfe, Wor. Ma3ter,
Sol. Kohlman, Sen. Warden,
J. V. Watson, Jun. Warden,
M. Rosenheim, 1reasurer,
C. C. Green, Secretary,
S. M. Morrison, Chapl,ain,

W. C. Rich, Wor. Ma.81.er,
- - - - - - Sen. Warden,
W. W. Whipple, Jun. Warden,
- - - - - - 1reamNr,

Pest Masters 1

C. C. Green.

Arnold, John
Blieman, A.
Blockman, A.
Crandall, O.
Crittenden, D.
Denzer, Charles

Hunt, R. M.
Killbury, A. M.
Lampe, T. C.
McGloin, P.
Rolfe, J. J.

Crutcher, W. M.
Herpse, A.

Searles, N.
Smith, O. N.
Thirwell. J.
Watson, ·w.F.
Zimmerman, J.-35.

Neff, J. H.
Patton, J . W.

Patton, R. R.-1.
Sp'cer, S. A.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Allenson, A. G.
Duff, A.
Levin, J.

WITHDRAWN:

Josephson, C.
Northhouse, L.

S.

ENTERED APPRENTICE :

FELLOW ORAl'T:

Hendrickson, M.
Hicks, N. A.

Williams R. L.
Worley, J.-H.

Smith, G. E.
Tidd, J.M.

FELLOW CRAFT :

Barton, William-1.
Axley, L. D.
Benson, Geo. E.
Davis, Ben. T.

Alex. Mille.

MASTER MASONS :

MASTER MASONS :

Early, J. D.
Gatzert, B.
Hervey, S.S.
Herzinger, Jno.
Hitchcock, E.

Deacon,

W. C. Rich,

Past Masters 1

Charles Marsh, P.D.G.M.

B. F. Marsh, Secretary,
J, F. Waddail, Sen.
- - - - - - Jun. Deac011,
Thoe. Hager, Tyler.

Schuller, A.
Stroud, T.-9.

Major, H.
McCurry, B. C.
McMurry, J. D.

Stoneberger, J.
Tyree, J, A.
Vandivier,J.F.-12.

Ormsby, C. N.
Stevens, H . H.
Stewart, W. W.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Peters, G. A.

Keating, Thoe.

Stiles, H. R.-3.

Mountain Forest Lodge, No. 75.
Eureka North, Sierra County.

Stated .Meetings, Saturday of or next pre.ceding Full Moon.

Tyro Lodge, No. 73.

OFFICERS1

Jon. R. Ellis, Wor. M<Uter
D. W. Mitchell, Sen. Ward'en,
J. M. Potts, Jun. Warden
Charles Blaskower, 1reas~rer,

Drytown, Am.ador County.

Stated Meetings, Th1irsday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

W. T. Curtis, Wor. MaJJter,
A. C. Hinkson, Sen. Warden,
Ed. Gallagher, Jun. Warden,
C.H. Misner, Trea3urer,
- - - - , Secretaf'!J,

E. A. McClure, Sen. Deacon,
A. S. Richardson, Jun. Deacan,
Isidore Louis, Marshal,
J. H. Mi!ton, l Stewardi,
M. A. Hmkson, I

J. H. Ewalt.
MASTER MASONS :

Allman, Samuel
Beck, H. S.
Benway, Abram
Bragg, Juetus
Darrow, Nicholas
Rieman, H.
Hoole, S. J.

MASTER MASONS:

Glover, M. W.
Hinkson, A. H.

Blakely, R. F.
Dames, C. W.

Dudley, C. E.
Fox, C. W.

Bell, D. J.
Benjamin, S. F.

Cochran, J.
Diamond, Benj.

Sheridan, T.
Smith, R.

Tupper, G. A.
Worley, D.-18.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Hinkson, H.P.
Hinkson, J.M.

Lemoine, E. D.-7.

Chaffin, W.W.
Mayers, C.
McGready, W. E.-8

(200]

Rogers, D. L.
Simmons, Samuel
Stow, Joseph
Turner, Edward
Van de Walker, A.K.
Wetherbee, O.
Woodward, J.E.

Norvall, R. M.
Olds, C. E. E.
Pardee, R. G.
Parks, Andrew
Piper, W. H.
Reis, Gus
Reynolds,' T.

·- s7.

Newman, Peter

Nicholsen, Lewis--3.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Borton, J. W.
Chandler, G. C.

DIED:

Hinkson, J. H .-1.

Hughes, G. W.
Ingram, Jaeper
Johnson, A. C.
Kelly, H. C.
Lyketer, R. .G.
Moore, S. D;
Nichols, H. C.

FELLOW CRAFTS;

WITHDRAWN:

Gallagher, J.
Johnson, A.

Deac/m,

Past Master 1

J. H. King, Tyler.

Cosmer, R.
Eggleston, C.

Wm. B. Hickok, Secretary,
L. B. Frankell, Sen. Deacon
W. L . (,}. Miller, Jun.
James ~aymond, Tyler.

,

Dunkel, J. F.

Meech, Stoel

• Ch&rter 1Uttendered, May, J.. L. 5858.

26

[201]

Myers, C.-5.

422

[May,

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

Serand, Paul
Stewart, Jos.

Vosberg, J. ·
Ware, L.-~.

SUSPENDED:

Clewes, D. A.-1.

Bear Mountain Lodge, No. 76.
Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS•

T. C. Rafferty, Sen. Deacon,
Charles Dickenson, Jun . .Deacon,
Willia~ Coddington, l StewarrJ.,
Cornelius O'Leary,
f
'
B. Rasberry, Tyler.

Ephraim Bush, Wor. Mau,
Warden,
Robert Graham, Jun. Warden,

William Reddick, Treasurer,
William A. Kelly, Sooretary,

Barnes, M. G.
Bassett, H.
Bowles, J. M.
Carlton. C.
Cash, Job
Conley, William
Cox, William
Cramer, D. C.
Cross, J . D.
Dashiel, Benj.
Ellis, John
Farley, F. H.

Fine, J. H.
Gill, Robert P.
Goodspeed, F.
. Graham, F. G.
Hagan, W. B.
Hardin, J. A.
Holm11.n. J. A. ·
Hpwe, Henry
Hoyle, J.B.
Huie,J.T.
Hunt, Charles

Baxter, Chas.

Bayless. T. F.

King, Samuel
Lee, Wm. G.
McGuire, A.
Ordway, William
Patrick, J, F.
Patrick, J. M.
Pettns, Jas. E.
Phinney, R.
Powell, John
Rathburn, Edwin
Rathburn, Enkin

Rogera, A. W.
Samuels, James
Siddons, J. H.
Singley, Jae.
Smith, S. J.
Swinerton, W. R.
Thompson, ·Jef.
Thompson, P. R.
Trinque, W. D.
Waginer, S. H.
Walker, J. R.-57.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Angel's, Cal1n·eras County.

Jame~ Mattison, Sen.

423

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.
MASTER MASONS:

WITHDRAWN:

McClung, W.
McClure, Wm.

Benton, H. P.
Johnson, R.R.

1858.J

Bond, J. L.

Rowe, F. A.-4.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

Codding, S. R.
La tapie, E. ·

.

Rudesill, A. C.

Vincent, Albert

White, James-5.

.

STRICKE'.11 FRO)! ROLL FOR NON-PAYMl!:NT OF DUES :

'

Walker, L. J.-1.
DIED:

Stuart, JameE-1.

Paet M1111ters:

Sponsler, F. R.

Kelly, Wm. A.

Reynolds, H. H.

MASTER MASONS:

Frazier, E.
Lake, C. G.
Mays, Wm. R.

Abbott, S. S.
Brooks, E. J .
Brooks, M. D.

Scribner. J.C.
Selkirk, David
Tryon, Geo. C.

Westbrook, H. F.
-22.

FELLOW ORAFTS:
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

Sall AndrelU, Cnlnveraa County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon .

Stewart, John A.-1.

OFFICERS•

WITHDRAWN: ·

A bell, Edmund

Calaveras Lodge, No. 78. .

Strauss, B.-3.

Stratton, T. H.

Kelly, James

Friedberger, A.-2.
DIED:

Camp, E. S.-1.

Orpheus Smith, Wor. Master,
Horace Austin, Sen. Warden,
James Barclay, Jun. W"rden,
B. J. Latz, Treasurer,

Joseph Kerns, Soortlary,
.Tames Finnie, Sen. D=rm,
R. W. Russell, Jun. Deo~n,
· J. A. H. Cook, Stewa.rd,

Nelson D. Jenks, Tyler.
P1111t Masters 1

G. G-arrettsec,

Moses Thorpe,

N. B. Jenks.

MASTllR MASONS :

Petaluma Lodge, No. 77.
Petalurna, Sonorna County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preced;·ng F·ull Moon.
OFl<'ICERS I

Uriah Edwards, Wor. Master,
F. J. Benjamin, Sen. Warden,
Fred. Alberding, Jun. Warden,
Wm. L. Anderson, 1'reiuurer,

A. A. Hunnewell, Sei;reiary,
O. T. Baldwin, Sen. Deacon,
John Carr, Jun. Deacon,
A. P. Overton, Tyler.
Past

Thos. L. Barnes,

B. Newman,

Master~;

P. W. Randle, P .J.G. w:

[202]

Wm. Burnett.

Attinelli, E. J.
Beatty, J. N.
Benjamin, J.
Blanchard, Seth
Bodie, Herman

Brotherton, J. W.
Coldren. E. R.
Cowles, ·Timothy
Latimer, Daniel

Gatewood, W. J.
Haskell, J. P.

Kelly, John

Cummings. J. W.
Dunning, H. W.

Hudgins, Philip
Norcross, N. T.

Clow, J.C.
Duff, J, C.

McCracken, R.

Safaelo, Nicola~
Morse, C. A.
Osborne, C. L.
Stone, Philip
Pomphret, Richard Wallace, E.
Purple, E. R.
Webb, ]If. J.-28.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Murphy, Morris

Shawl, Geo.-5.

E~TERED APPRENTICES:

•

Snyder, Peter

Wilmer, Robert-6.

WITHDRAWN:

Stearns, W. H.

L203l

Williams, H.-5.

424

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Humboldt Lodge, No. 79.

Yolo Lodge, No. 81.

Eui-eka, Humboldt County.

Yolo, Yolo . County.

Stated Meetings, fir8t 'rhur8day in each month.

Stated Meeting,, Saturday of or ~t preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS1

W. L. Ferguson, Wor. Master,
R. M. Stoker, Sen. Warden,
Chas. W. Long, Jun. Warden,
M. Friedenstein, 1'reasurer,

H. S. Comstock, SeJ:Tetary,
Jacob De Haven,
Deacon,
James Hanna, Jun. Dell.con, ·
Alex. Gilmore, 'l'yler.

Sen.

Past 1'Iaatcr11

S. L. Shaw,

OFFICERS•

N. Wyckolf, Wor. Master,
J. D. Stephens, Sen. Warden,
Charles Traver, Jun. Warden,,
W. M. Borden, Pre<UUrer,

Downham, E.
Fairchild, J. A.
Hume,J. N.

Pine, Chas. A.
Runpell, C. H.

Simonton, R. G.
Whipple, S. G.-20.

MASTER MASONS :

Arnold, W. B.
Boone, J. T.
Brown, G. F.
Davis, C. D.

Derrick, J. C.
Diggs, D. P.
Gottwals, C.

Martin, W. C.

Riggs, H. C.
Snodgrass, Geo.
Tebbs, Q. C.-21.

Pickard, Daniel

Freeman, F. S.-l.

Sevlel', A. D.-5.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

WITHDRAWN:

Carson, William

Grey F. G.
1
Hamoright,
B.
Lipscomb, R. S.

PELLOW CRAFT:

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Cram, A.
Langdon, J. P.

E. Giddings, Sfbrµarv,
T. C. Pochman, Sen. DelllXJll,
B. F. Tebbe, Jun. Deacon,
A. Burton, 'l'yler.

A. J. Huestis.
MASTER MAWNS:

Conklin, William
Davis, E. L.
De.vis, Isaac

425

Moses, A.-1.
Upton, J. J.-2.

WITHDRAWN :

Anderson, W. F.

DIED:

Forman, J. L.

Schindler, David-S.

Molony Ja~. R.-1.

Mountain Lodge, No. 82.
Don Pedro'• Bar, Tuolumne <lounty.

lone Lodge, No. 80.

Sta_ted Meeting8, third Saturday in each month.

Ione, Amador County.

Stated Meeting8, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS 1

Allen Marsh, Sen. Deacon,
R. F. StevenB', Jun. DeJJ.Mn,
J ..F~osworth, 1Sttwarda
W11l1am Hermes, f
'
Jas. Livermore, 'l'yler.

John A. Ee.p:on, Wor. Master,
,John E. Hunt, Sen. Warden.
John W. Surfooe, Jun. Warden,
J. B. Gregory, TreJJ.:mrer,
H. H. Rhees, Secretary,

Past Masters 1

A. E. Callaway,

John C. Gear.

MASTER MASONS:

Beck, J. J.
Black, C. S.
Duryea, W. H.
Hayley, L.

Hopkins, B.
Newman, D.
Kibbee, A. D.
Poe, John T.
Leneger, Christian Turner, J . F.
Lyon, L.G.

Simpson. H.
Smith, W. J.
Withington, R. H.
-26.

FELLOW CRAFT :

Aiken, J. B.-1.
Carter, H. A.
Davenport, M. G.

Sutherland, Joo.

WITHDRAWN:

Benedicks, A.

Van Ness, W. H.
-6.

T. J. Severns, Si!CT'dary,
8. H . Stevens, Sen. Df4con,
John H. Yates, Jun. Dtat:on,
Ca.aper Sharp, 'l'yler.
Past Masters 1

Z. P. Cole,
Cook,J. H.
Cope, F. S.
Cope, J. l<'.
Holmes, Thoe.
Morgan, A.

C. Gilman.
MASTER MASONS :

Muir, W. G.
Nelson, Uriah
O'Neal, Patrick
Parsons, Otis
Pi!ey, H.

Pirtle, W. J.
Rolf, Nelson
Sherwood, John
Starr, C. A.

Hulse, A. W.

Valentine, Wm.-3.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Ferne, Morris

Squiers, S. S.

WITHDRA. WN :

Block, E. M.-1.

Dunbar, H.-2.

[2041

Stevens, R. D.
Striplinr, Elijah
Williams, W. C.
Wilson, P. F.-26.

PELLOW CRAFTS :

Davhi, D. E.
Bates, N. G.

Ei'iTERED APPRENTICES:

Flint, Benjamin

OFFICER81

C. Gilman, Wor. ltliuter,
Wm. Carrick, Sen. Warden,
N. Bond, Jun. Warden,
Z. P. Cole, 1'reJJ.mrer,

f205J

Stevens, C. A.- 4.

426

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[Moy,

Rising Star Lodge, No. 83.
Todd's Valley, Placer C.o wity,
S~ated Meetings,

Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS1

J. W. Harville, Wor. Master,
Wm. G. Graham, Sen. Deacon,
Martin Hoover, Sen. Warden,
David P. Marshall, Jun. Dea.con,
John M. Miner, Jun. Warden,
Henry E. Newman, Marahal,
S. S. Willard, Trea.iurer,
Albert Knapp,
l Steward8,
Wm. Rufus Longley, Secret,ary,
Robt. 0. Cravens, f
- - - -, Tyler.

' 1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFORNIA,

427

MASTER MAWNS:

Bradley, J. C.
Eur!, J.
Broadwater, W. S. Edmonds,F.
Brownstine, Geo. Fisher, C. E.
Bull, Alpheus
Galland, J.B.
Carter, S. M.
Gay, N. B.
Dye, J. M.

Gellan, L. S.
Hoag, G. W.
Ide, J.M.
Jackson, E.
Meader, M.

Myrick, M. H.
Roll, Wm. A.
Veatch, J. A.
Webb, A.H.
Whitehurst, J. C.
-28.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Craig, Alex.

Riser, Ellis

Roberts, J. L.-S.

ENTERED APPRENTICES :

Copeland, H. C.

Hall, N.

Hammers, G. W.-3.

Pru;t 1UW1ters •

Artemus Baker,

J. V{.• Harville.
MASTER MASONS:

Baker, D. J.
Burrows, G. W.
Butts, George
Cobb, Anselm H.
Cora, R.
Crumpton, H. J.
Decker, G. W.
Duck, William
Follansbee, J. S.

Foskett, E. D. C.
Goff, A. W.
Gooding, Henry
Gunsell, J . H.
Hatch, John
Henson, W. T.
Herrick, Jas.
Hill, A. J.
Hosmer, T. N.

Kimball, Marcus
Kirbe. J. F.
Longley, Jas. H.
.Martin, Geo. M.
Myrick, J. W.
McClure, Wm.
McGinnis, Wm. T.
Powell, Peyton
Read, A. G.

Robinson ,.B. M.
SanbornJ'. L.
Thayer, l". M.
Todd, L. M. .
Warsburg, Lewis
White, Walter R.
Wilkerson, Achilles
Williams, Richard
Young, H. M.-47.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Brown, R. H.

Indian Diggings Lodge, No. 85.
Indian Digging•, El Dorado Count)'.

Stated Meetings, Saturday nl!$t preceding Full .Moon.
OFFICERS a

J. B. Carter, , Wor. Maater,
WhL. Clark, Sen. Warden ,
Jo n Gates, Jun. Warden,
Geo. Daywalt, Preaaurer,
Isaac S. Locke, Secrdary,

James Rippy, Sen. Deacrm,
R. R. Claiborne, Jun. Deacon,
A. Brault, t "'
,,_
M. Phelps, f ~tewar,,....
F. D. Mercuire, 'Fyler.
Past l'llaster 1

Ferrill, J onathan-2.

J . B. Carter. .

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Blood, Amos F.

Comer, John

Krause, Ferman-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Calcord, M. S.
Cooper, Gilbert

Frye, J. H.P.
Settle, H. C.

Stepheus, W. S.
Waddell, Thos.

Waldron, Elias
Wilson, J . L.-8.

Basler, George
Chandler, Jos.
Collins, J . D.

MASTER MAS01'S :

Collins, J. S.
Dake. L. W.
. Dumble, E. H.

Gillispie, B.-1.

Hoskins, Avery-2.
DIED :

Brohard, J. D. (E. A.)

Hoagland, Ju. T.-2.

McDonald, George
White, O. P. H.
Williams, T. Y.-22

FELLOW CRAFT:

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Hackett, J.M.

Eglestone, H. W.
Grubbs, J. D.
Hall, H.

Clayton, W. S.
Languedoc, Wm.
Blockman, A.
Boi;:ardus, E.
Colenburg, H.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Loveless, S.

!'·

Malone, Geo.

Mcllfanus, John-Ii.

WITHDRAWN :

Gibson, P.
Grubbs, Wm.

Holliday, Wm.
Morgan, W.

Reynolds, J.
Thompson, J. D. P.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL i·oR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Harrison, J. W.-1.

Vesper Lodge, No. 84.
Red BltUrs, Tehnmn County.

St. Louis Lodge, No. 86.
St. Loul8, Sierra County.

Stated Meetings, Tliursday next preceding Full Moon.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.

OFFICERS a

W. R. Harrison, Wor. Maater,
T. J. Butler, Sen. Warden,
W. L. Bradley, Jun. Warden,
George S~erman, Treaaurer,

A. H. Stout, Secretary,
- - - - - , Sen. Deac<m,
- - - - - - , Jun. DeiI.ccn,
- - - - , Tyltr.
Pnot l'llllBters :

J. G. Doll,

Dennis Dunn.

[2061

J, M. Tlngley, }for. MtUter,
Henry Kerr, &n. Warden,
A. J. Howe, Jun. Warden,
Jacob Small, Preaaurer,
Alemby Jump, Secretary,

OFFICERS a

Daniel Giraud, &n. Deawn,
H. G. 0. Drake, Jun. Deacon,
P . J. White, Marahal,
Thomas Gordon, t Stewa ds
J. W. Jenkins,
f
r ,

S. L. Stone, fyler.
[207J

-9.

428

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[.M'a_y,

. 1858.]

Quitman Lodge, No. 88.

P ast Masten z

James St. C. Wilson,

Orleans Flat, Nevada County.

Joel Eveland.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

MASTER MASONS :

Downer, J. W.
Edson, N. B.
Eve, George
Fraler, Charles
Griswell, Amos
Harris, A. J .

Beal,C.C.
Bump, Peter
Butler, C. D.
Cohn, Rieman
Corbett, John
Cox, Geo. W.

Bendle, Chas. W.
Holcomb, W. A.
Ihmer, John
Miller, J . P.
McRodin, David
Ong, J . W.

Parvin, W. L.
Schott, Conrad
Thomas, J. L.
Wallace, Silas
Wimer, Lewis
Withrow, W.W.
-37.

OFFICERS•

R. B. Moyes, Wor. Maater,
S. B. Blakesley, Sen. Warden,
J. P. Brinton, Jun. Warden,
P. B. Oppenheim, 11rea.11Jrer,
L . A. Sackett, &cretary,

FELLOW CRAFT:

Spoor, David-6.

Roos, Nicholas
Smith, J.P.
Rutledge, Michael
WITHDRAWN:

Marsh, Allen
Hill, R. D.
Hollingsworth, M. Morrison, T. F.
Watkins, Theo.-15.
Knouth, Fred.
Libbie, W. R.

Foster, H. E.
Harwood, John
Helm, Alfred
Hill, N. S.

B. S. Olds, P . J . G. W.

Andrew Hanna,

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Anderson, John
Brown, Richard
Clarke, Orus
Cox, M. T.

S. 0 . Pease, Sen. Deacon,
John Gray, Jun. Deacon,
Thos. W. Triplett, MarBhal,
John Nayee,
l Stewa d6
Semuel Arnold, f
r •
W. R. Morrow, 'I'yler.
.
Pasi Masters 1

Page, Benj1\mln-l.
Creely, James
Duhell, L. G.

429

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

DIED:

MASTER MASONS:

Aiken, Samuel
Ames, E. L.
Arnold, Geo.
· Barnes, W. C.
Bishop, S. W.
Caldwell, John
Copp, Henry
Davis, Elijah

Dill,E.
Lambeth, S. A.
Greenman, H. ·
Lawrence, C, A.
Hickman, S. B.
Mason, Caleb
Hopkins, W. H.
Mead, Stephen
Jones, C. B.
Montenal, F. S.
Julian, Humphrey Nugent, A. S.
Kingman, H. J.
Pickel, W. C.
Kinney, H. L.
Reed, Jno. D.

Palmer, Burton-I.

Rooney, J. M.
Rose, B. F.
Sichel, A.
Singleton, M. A.
Snapp, R. L.
Tyler, Samuel
Wood, Wm. C.-44.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Hunter, John M.

Remington, M. L.-2.

E:'<TERED APPRENTICES:

Blackwell, S. L.

Boody, Daniel

Cowger, Jno.

Hotchkiss, H. B.-4.

WITHDRAWN :

Barry, J. K.
Belknap, W. D.
Cazaux, H. B.
Doyle, W.

Naval Lodge, No. 87.
Vallejo, Solano County,

Eaker , Jacob
Gregg, J.M.
Harris, E.

Lang, Frank
Mead, William
McNabb, Geo. C.

Reem, J eremiah
Scott, W. A.
Smith, J. L. P.-13.

DIED:

Stated Meetings, third Thursday in each month.

Butterlleld, R. W.

McLain, J. M.-2.

O FFICERS 1

Alexander Guffy, Set:re11Jrt1,
Charles S. Hussey, Sen. DetV:011,
W. D. Jones, Jun. Deacon,
John Lee, 'I'yler.

Isaac Hobbs, Wor. Maater,
Nathan Flanders, Sen. Warden,
Cornelius Martin, Jun. Warden,
John A. Clampitt, Prea.mrer,

Rose's Bar Lodge, No'. 89.

Pa•t Mutersz

John R. Bird,

Abraham Powell, Jr.
MASTER MASONS:

Anthony, C. V.
Aspenall, Wm.
Bean, L. W.
Benas, Benj.
Bolis, Jno. L.

Brow,n, J. W.
Brownlee, Thoe.
Brownlee, Robert
Cheney, W. B.
Hodgkin, J.E.

Hoglaud, W. C.
Hook, Henry
Kelly, Dennis
Logan, James
Mann, James

Mathews, Felix
Moden, E.G.
Oliver, C. H.
Vaughn, H. S.
Willil\ms, Oron-30.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Davis, Simon

Kennedy, P eter-2.
ENTERED APPRENTICES.

Elliott, M. C.
Frisbie, E.

Hall, O. .A.

Milks, E.

Richardson, M. H.
-6.

WITHDRAWN:

Macauley, J . B.

Meagher, Dennis

(208J

McLaughlin, P.-3.

Empire Ranch, Yubn County,

. Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon. ·
OFFICERS1

A. L. Morrison, Wor. Maater,
R. Dillon, Sen. Warden,
J . A. Cramer, Jun. Warden,
W. M. Pearl, Prea.mrer,
Henry Hogarth, S=dary,

.

S. J. S. RogerR, Sen. Deacon,
. J. F. McNutt, Jun. Dea.con,
J. Henry, l 01
d
C. Lintott, l " ' eioar 3 '
M. Bradley, Tyler.
MASTER MASO:-<S:

Carpenter, L . C.
Clark, L.B.
Colemf\n, M.
Congdon, G. N.
Dykeman, H.

27

England, C.
Greenwold, F.
Gregory, Wm.
Hyde, A. O.
Jamieson, G.

Kellogg, H. B.
Langridge, G.
Merrill, W. P .
Meyers, C. W.

L209l

Parks, J .
Pierce, J. P.
Sheldon, R . W.
Wilbur, J .-28.

430

RETtJRNS OF StlBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[.May,

1858.]

l' ELLOW CRAl'TS :

FELLOW C&AFTS:

Berry, F. M.

Holliday, S.-2.

Byerly, Jos.

Brown, F. G.

Steel, Thomas H.-3.

ENTERED APPRENTIOES:

WITHDRAWN:

Boyce, S. G.
Lawton, N. O.
Courtright, W. H. Long, Wm. M.

431

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

McCrackln, J. M.
Potter, J. G.

Sawin, B. M.-7.

Cunningham, Jas.
Gartrell, Caleb
Hendricks, W. H.

Hooper, F . M.
Huff, J. F.
Ingraham, Peter

Leeper, W. J.
McLane, S. llf.
Palmer, N. N.

Adams, A. W.
Cowden, J. S.

Gutter, Amos, Jr.
Kitts, D. ll.

Patterson, J. H.
Pennington, B. C.
Smith, Louis-12.

WITUDRA WN :

Logan, J.C.

Logan, J. J .-6.

*Polar Star Lodge, No. 90.
Onion Valley, Plunuu1 County.

Acacia Lodge, No. 92.

Stated Meetings, Satwrday of or next preceding Full Moon.

Coloma, El Dorado County.

OFFICERS1

Stated Meetings, Tliursday of or next preceding Pull Moon.

D. W. C. Baird, &cr"ary,
A. A. Cummings, Sen. DtlJ(l()fl,
J. J. L. Peel, Jun. Deawn,
H. C. Hamp!'<>n, 'l'yler.

Arthur E. Waits, Wor.Ma3ter,
James Corcoran, Sen. Warden,
Almus Stebbins, Jun. Warden,
Robert Gunton, '.fioeaBurer,

OFFICERS1

A. W. Cullum, Wor. Master.
J. S. Chapman, Sen. Wardeii,
R obert Chalmers, Jun. Warden,
Robert Bell, Treasurer.
David F. McDonald, &cret&ry,

P1111t lllastcr 1

D. W. C. Baird.
MAS'fER MASONS:

Tomlinson, A. A.-11.

Kelly, R . C.

Emmon~, T. F.

Past M1111t.er :

FELLOW CRAFT:

Thomas M. Reed.

Reynolds, John-1.

MASTER MASONS:

~:NTERED .APPRENTICES:

McCabe, J. P.

Huse, James

Tally, W. W.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Lester, ThoA. G.

Hudson, J. F.
Long, D. P.

Adams, G. W.
Hodgkins, C.

. S. L. Weymouth, Sen. Deaoon,
Andrew Nelson, Jun. Deuon,
A. A. Van Guelder, MarBhal,
E. Camp,
l St d
A. Schmoltz, f ewar 8 '
S. J. Ford, 'l'yler.

McAlli11ter, T. W.

-6.

Camp, 0.
Carson, E. B.
Clees, J. W.
F arley, Manning
Gilbert, G. H.
Heerdink, John

H edrick, J.
Herrick, H. S.
Johnson, J a.mes
Johnson, N~than
Jones, Wm. A.
Levy, M.

I

Long, A.
Mahler, H.
Moore, J a.mes
Morris, J.
McKinney, D. C.
O'Brien, Walter

Robertson, Thos.
Smith, D.S.
Welch, James
Williama, T. H.
Wren, Thomas--35.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

• McDonald, R.

McDougald, J. A.-2.

Irn'l'ERED APPRENTICES :

North Stat Lodge, No. 91.

Kline, Lazarus
Merrill, A. W.

Merrill, D. S.
Stein, John

llorowsky, M.
Grace, Newell

Noteware, C: N.

Wiley, J.

•Wiley, J. l'.-6.

WITHDRAWN:

Hoopervlllc, IH.aklyuu County.

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each montli.

Racklitfe, C. J.

Thulio, N. L.-5.

OFFICERS1

A. M. C. Smith, Sei:rdary,
William Brice, Sen. D«Uon,
Joseph Barker, Jun. Dtacon,
A. L. Johnson, 'l'yler.

1''rancls E. Ensign, Wor. Maaer,
A. P. McCarton, Sen. Warden,
A. A. Beam, Jun. Warden,
L.B. Gregory, Treiuurer,

Caym.us Lodge, No. 93.

P1111t lll118ter 1

Yountvlll<>, Nal"' Comity.

A. M. C. Smith.

Htated Meetings, last Saturday in eacli montlt.

MASTER MASONS:

B&ker, M. M.
Brewster, Joseph
Coe, Geo. H.
Doud, David
Ellsworth, O. F .
Frazer, Samuel

Guy'ther. W. A.
Heard, G. W.
Judah, H. M.
Keowan, B. W.
Killion, Bernard
Mason, B. 8.

Nunn, J. H.
Quivey, Leander
Randall, Joshua
Rice, S. S.
Rigg. E. G.
Shaw, D. H.

~Charier ourre~dered, May, A. l,. 5808.

[2101

OFFICERS 1

Shores, William
Stone, S. E.
Thornbury, C. N.
Turnbow, R. R.
Van Horn, Wm.
Wright, Wm.-32.

J a.mes Allfrey, Sen. Dearon,
Achilles F. Grigsby, Jun. Deacon,
Wm. H. Holliday, Marghal,
Joseph Evey,
}
Wm. M. Hargrave, 81.ewar~,
A. C. Dimmick, Tyler.

Edward L. Levey, Wor. M<Uter,
George C. Yount, Sen. Warden,
William Baldrid11;e, Jun. Warden,
John Grigsby, Trea:mrer,
Joseph Mecklenberg, &retary,
.Tames M. Wright, Chaplain,

·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-

• rerml.-ion given 1o receive degroes elsewhere.

(211)

432

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

Past lll11.11ter 1

Past !llutcrs 1

0. P. Southwell,

Edward Evey.
Honorary l'llember :

E. L. Sullivan.
Deering, J, W.

Hazleton, P. R.

Johnson, D. M.-li.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Still, Henry

Taylor, W. E.-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Clayton, W. A.

G. R. Walker.
MASTER MASONS:

MASTER MASONS :

Chopson, Thos.

433

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Matthews, W. R.-2.

Burke, T. J.
Davis, J.
Elkins, John
Fidler, D.

Kussard, P.
Manon, S. S.
Pendleton, B. F.
Pickard, James

Burleson, C. D.
Comstock, A.

Gill, J.

Porter, W. S.
Randall, P. M.
Sargent, W. B.
Sullinzer, James

Tibbits, F.
Tibbits, James
Wildman, W. T.
Wood, H.-27.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Keyes, J.

Kimball, J. A.-6.

WITHDRAWN :

Crandall, D.

Gliddon, C. R.

Rose, A. H.-a.

STRICKEN FRO:ll ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Morrow, S.-1.

Mount Hermon Lodge, No. 94.
Ellzabetht.,wn, Pluma• County.

Stated Meetings, fourth Saturday in each mo-nth.
01''FICERS I

Isaac M. Walter, Wor. Maater,
D. J. Gloyd, Sen. Warden,
D. Titherington, Jun. Warden,
C. T. Kaull.oack. 'l'reaBUrer,

Richard Hart, Se!Jl'elary, ·
T. D. Ritchie, Sen. De=m,
Thomae Stark, Jun. Deacon,
H. T. Elliott, 'l\jler.
Pn~t

Howard Lodge, No. 96.

l1111.11ten:

W. l'!J. Milburn,

E. P. Grubbs,

A. S. Paul.

Yreka, Shklyou County.

MASTER MASONS:

Appel, J, G.
Baertch, Chr.
Boyd, A.
Coburn, D.
Cook, G.

Dickson, S. J.
Hall, E. A.
Hardsuck, M. E.
Hogan, E. T.
l'lfather, S. H.

Hearsey, F. B.
Hunton, J. C.

McGill, Robt.

Choate, Charles
Colt, John

Frink, William
Johns, B. F.

Moore, G. W.
McDonald, A. M.
Norriss, T. A. B.
Peters, N. J.
Perry, Richard

Petty, William
Robinson, F. D.
Smith, P.
Webb, John-30.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

McKinley, 0. P.

Winans, John-5.

Stated Meetings, second Monday in each montlt.
OFFICERS1

Edgar W. Potter, Wor. Master,
C. C. Beekman, Sen. D64C()n,
John Loag, Sen. Warden,
E. S. Crockett, Jun. Deacon,'
C. W. Lewis, Jun. Warden,
A. V. Burns, Marahal,
Joel B. Oldham, Preaw.rtr,
Jae. A. Hill,
t St d
John Reid, Secretary,
William Courtney, f t10ai· a,
J . Green, (of St. John's Lodge, No. 37,) 'l'yler.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Larrison, J. H.
Phelps, John

Taylor, H.-7.

Poat !llasten 1

W. S. R. Taylor,

Chamberlain, P.
Coss, Benj.

Green, J. H.
Harrison, H. H.

Howard, John

Edgar W. Potter.
Honorary llle:mber.

WITHDRAWN:

W. H. Howard.

Orr, J. H.-6.

MASTER MASONS:

Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95.
Sutter Creek, A:mador County.

Ashby, Thompson
Autenreith, Lewis
Barry, Jas. W.
Bisbee, William
'Brooke, H.
Brooks, S. S.
Brown, A.H.

Brown, J. W.
Carrick, E.
Collins, C. F.
Davis. John
Fox, Wiley J'.
Grflenwald. Julius
Lytle, Jas. ·A.

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next preceding Full Moon.
G. R. Walker, Sen. Deacon,
0. Hockins, Jun. Deacon,
James Gluyas, } Stewar~,
T. M. Harrie,
R. Baker, fyler.

[212]

Scott, X. E.
Slade, W. D.
Smith, J.P.
Snelling, J . S.
Thomas, H.
Waterhouse, G. B.
-37.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Durand, Geo.

OFFICERS I

A Hayward, Wor. Maater,
N. A. Green, Sen. Warden,
W. A. Loring, Jun. Warden,
P. Cook, Treaaurer,
James Murray, &cretary,

Mayfield, W. I.
Mead, G. M. W.
Norton, W. T.
Paul, W. J .
Riker, H. H.
Sagemiiler, J. D.

Searcy, James--2.

ENTERED APPRESTICES:

Berry, Jehu

Shepherd, J. B.

Snelling, R. B.

StiltR, Geo. W.-4.

WITIIDRAWN :

Dearing, Thomas

Furber, Geo. C.

[213]

North, Samuel-3.

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

434

[May,

ORAN:b tODGE or OAtlFORNtA.

1858.J

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Jefferson Lodge, No. 97.

Means, W. L.-1.

La Porte, Sierra Count.y.

WITHDRAWN:

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding li'ull Moon.
OFFICERS:

Barefield, W. J.
King,D.C.

Landrum, A. J.
Snow, Chas.

La Grange Lodge, No. 99.

E. Lane.

La Grange, !!tonl.8loua County.

MASTER MASONS :

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.

Bphro.m, M. B.
Gardner, W.
Haydon, J. S.
Hill, N. S.
Howard, F.
Hudson, J.
Johnson, A. C.
Kilbourne, W. V.

Kime, L. 1!'.
Mamlock, S.
Myers, W. F.
Pinch, J.
Porter, J. R.
Price, J.B.
Reeser, J. R.

Sim, W.
Va.ngundy,_J.
Wadley. G. L.
White, •r.
Wilks, I.
Wilson, R. C.
Zimmerman, P.-41.

OFFICERS 1

W. M. Stalford, Wor. Master,

Robert McGarvey, Secretary,
W. W. Bowen, Sen. D~on,
Wm. B. Thurman, Jun. D«rron,
S. J. Simons, Tyler.

P. B. Nagle, Sen. Warden,
John Myers, Jun. Warden,
C. M. Wells, 'l'rea&urer,

Poat Moaters 1

S. N. Hoyt,

A. Elkins,

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Burrus, S.-2.

Arnold, C.

ENTEltED APPREN'fICES:

Marty, W.

Francis, W.

McMo.nn, J, F .

Wood, T. M.-4.

WITHDH!WN:

Hannon, M. W.
Harris, J. J .
Head, W. Y.

Wood, W. P.-6.

Ourtis, Geo. W.-1.

Pll8t Master 1

Baker, 'l'.
Barnhart, J. A.
Bracy, W.
Brown, H.
Brown, J.
Buell, E.W.
Carrington, J. B.
Davis, W. S.

Tichenal, W. H.
DIED:

M. Cook, Sen. Deacon,
N. Payne, Jun. Deac@,
A. N. Smith, Marshal,
G. W. Riggins, l S~oar<h,
E. Absher,
f
J. A. Morse, 1.yler.

E. Lane, Wor. MaBter,
J.P. Fuller, Sen. Warden,
J. A. Johnson, Jun. Warden,
J. Conly, Treamrer,
A.H. Crew, Secretary,

435

Lester, E.
Loeb, B.

Kitts, J,
Larrison, S.

Smith,F. W.
Winfrey, J, B.-9.

STRICKEN FRO~l ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT 011' DUISS:

Miller, L. D.-1.

W. M. Stafford.

MASTER MASONS:

Aldrich, Henry
Barfield, J. W.
Cleveland, S.
Currel, Spencer
Damien, Pierre
Delaney, Pat.

Dickenson, J. D.
Dubois, Samuel
Hawthorne, S. S.
Rockett, Jno. B.
Howell, B. F .
Kennon. T. M.

Allen, O. H.
Atkinson, John

Duke, Burrell
Granorini, Thos.

Kirk, W, D.
Raynal, Justin
Laird, Jno. W.
Scanlker, S. P.
Letroadec, Pierre The.bard, Pierre
Murphy, T. G.
Thomas, G. W.
Payne, Thoe.
Ward. J. N.-32.

FELLOW CRA~'TS:

Peacock, William
Pornier, A.

Summers, John-7.

ENTERED APPRENTJCEB:

Bach, F.
Ewing, Simon
Branch, Geo. W. Jt'reye, M. L.
Crason, E. T.
King, Geo. W.
Eggleston, ErastuR

Labbe, Julius
Moore, Benj. H.
Rector. E.G.
·

Rigsbey, James
Starr, W. C.
Young, William-IS.

WITHDRAWN:

Quartzburg Lodge, No. 98.

Johnson, N. B.

Davis, L. S.

Torney, Seth-3.

STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Hornltaa, lllorlpoaa County.

f:itated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding 1''ull Moo11.

Calbreath, J.C.

Lurette, X. G. de Je.-3.

Harris, A.

OFFICERS 1

A. McElroy. Sen. DNJCOn,
• D.S. Kirkpatrick, Jurt. DMIC<m,
J. Elias,
l Stewarda,
J. Y. Jones, f
G. ll. Barnes, T11ler.

D. C. McCrosky, War. M118ier,
N. A. Bailey, Sen. Warden,
Samuel W. Carr, Jun. Warckn,
Wm. H. Tonge, Treaaurer,
P. B. Smallwood, Secrdary,
Gilmore, G. B.
-Goss, W. G.
Jackl!on, W.W.·

McNeill, A.
Pool, D. M.
Predham, Fred.

~'ELLOW

CRAFT:

Bludworth, Charles-I.

l214]

Cnlllpo !!eco, ColaveroM County,

Stated Meetings, first Wednesday in each montli.

MASTUl MASONS:

Block, Daniel
Clark, Jno. F.
Doeg, Jamee

Campo Seco Lodge, No. 100.

Roes, B. lf.
Thornton, T. G.
Wood, J. H.-22.

OFFICERS1

John M. Keitb, Wor. M<Uter,
L. M. Drake, Sen. Warden,
111. Einstein, Jun. Warden,
A. L. Wo.ngenheim, Trea:mrer,

Adolph Adler, Sf.Crtto.ry
F. M. Shoemaker, &n.
E. ~· Brown, Ju1f. De.awn,
J, Emstein, Tykr.

"Df&on

[215]

'

RETURNS OF BUBORDlNATJi: LODGES TO TaE

436

[Ma,y,

I

1858.]

Paet Mader t

Post Master t

J. M. Havens.

William H. Sear@.
MASTER MASONS:

MASTER MASONS:

Funk, J .
· Anderson, A. R.
Andrews, J. V. B. Gardner, J. H.
Howard, Jae.
Atlee. Wm. A.
Kettleman, David
Combs, L. S.
Maxson, G. D.
Drake, A. T.
Fitzsimmons, Jno.

Miller, James
Palmer, J. W. D.
Paul, R.H.
Rosenberg, L.
Thompkins, C. G.

Walter, F.
Wangenheim, S.
Weir, J.B.
Wiley, J. R.
Wooley, W.~so.

FELWW ORAFT :

Smithling, Louis-1.
WITHDRAWN:

}Jonroe, J.C.

Gude, F. W.

437

GRAND LODGE or CALIFORNIA.

Nathan, Daniel

Wheeler, R. F.-4.

Adsit, L.B.
Archbald, J . R.
Avery, B. P.
Baldwin, Smith
Black, Hou~ton
Clark, Jos. F.
Cummings, D. P.
Curtis, Samuel

Dickson, ~- M.
Effinger, J. H.
Evans, Alvaro
Evans; Orlando
Freeman, Thomas
Guthrie, J. W.
Hillard, S. R.
Holmes, J. P.
m~TERED

Armsbary, Calvin

Shuler, Antonius
Smith, Francis
Sperling, Aug.
Stafford, J osb.
Westerfield, J.
Winham, M. A.
Winham, W. P. t.
-41.

APPRENTICES:

Coley, W. C.
.

Bass; Lawrence
Clark, Jas. P.

Iserman, N. B.
.Johnson, A. J.
llfacklin, Henry
Mobly, F. F .
McKeeby, L. C.
Peterson, J. H.
Readshaw, W. J .
Seely, Jno. A .

Fisher, Geo. P.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Coker, James
Collins, Henry

Hatfield, Wm.

McCoy, Jae. P.-8.

STRIOKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

Clay Lodge, No. 101.

Caswell, S. B.-1.

Dutch Flat, Pincer County•

Stated Meetings, second Saturday in each month.
OFFICERSt

S. B. Harriman, Sen. Daacon,
C. M. Kopp, Jun. Deacon,
A. Friedman, l Stewarda
J . C. Lilly,
f
'
Wm. F. Grubb, Tyler.

E. Hogan, Wor. Malter,
G. P. Beal, Sen. Warden,
L. D. Kopp, Jun. Warden,
E. L. Bradley, 1'reasurer,
D. F. Hathaway, Ser:rtiary,

Stakd Meetings, last Saturday in each month.

John H. Montgomery.

OFFICER81

MASTER MASONS:

Fritch, J. M.
Gardner, M. S.
Gill Isaac
Hartsburg, H.

Trim, R. M.
Webber, M. N.
Williams. J .
Wright, H.-28.

Heyman, S.
Jachieus, B.
Moulter, J.
Scott, W.

David A. Brown, Wor. Maste:r,
Geo. W. Elliott, Sen. Warden,
Robert Williams, Jun. Warden,
Philip Waterman, 1'reaaurer,

Arthur McDermot, Secretary,
Daniel Jewett, Sen. Deacon,
D. G. O'Donnell, Jun. Dwcun,
R. C. Gridley, 'l'ykr.
Past Masters t

FELLOW ORAFTS:

Bloom, J. S.

Starr, H.

Williams, E.-3.

ENTE!tED APPRENTIOES :

Barnes, F.
Grey. J. S.

Oroville, Butte County.

Poat Masters 1

E. Hogan,
Beal, J. A.
Begole, W. A.
Curran, V ..
Fair, S.
Francis, R.

Oroville Lodge, No. 103.

Hampton, W.

Seffens, Chas.

Thoma~, J. M.-5.

WITHDRAWN:

Baker, J. F.-1.
DIED:

Brown, M. H.-1.

D. A. Brown,

A. G. Brown,

J. J. Kleine,

S. Rosenbaum.

MASTER MASONS:

Backer, J.C.
Baright, G. P.
Bissett, Tho@.
Bowman, J. S.
Climper, J. C.
Collins, P.
De Cosmus, A.
Edmunds, Wm.

Elliott, J. T.
Emmerson, J.E.
Fairchild, 0. L.
Faulkner, Thos.
Fer, L. W.
Greene, J. C.
Grosvenor, D. W.
Gunson, Robert

Brooks, D. W.
Carroll, N.

DaviR, R.

Hoskins, A.
Johnson, D.
Miller, J . W.
McKenzie, Geo.
Pond, E. B.
Reis, A. D.
Rosenthal, J.
Rothrock, Geo.

Silvis, J . B.
Sims, J. S.
Smith, D. W.
Smith, W. C.
Srooinger, Geo.
Tymeson, A. M.
Vance, J. W.-42.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Manzanita Lodge, No. 102.
North lt!an Juan, Nt:vada County.

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICER81

William H. Sears, Wor. Malter,
Charles E. Olney, Sen. Warden,
Francis A. Wilder, Jun. Warden,
James H. Moore, 1'reasurer,
Achilles Eastin, Ser:rdary,

John F. Pinkham, Sen. Dwxm,
Joseph Kenville, Jun. Deacon,
Alexander' Fraser, l Steward•,
Joseph Cook,
I
Peter Zacharias, Tyler.

[216)

Reed, R. C.

Renker, C.-5.

ENTERED AFPREN'l'IOES:

Bourne, George
Clevelahd, M. V.

Coleman, J.B.
Hoffman, P.

Faulkner, G. W.
Jones, John
Keating, J. D.

Mann, A. F.
Martin, S.

Hornbrook, S.
Jones, J. Y.

Sparks, E. M.-7.

WITHDRAWN:

Mitchell, John
P eck, W. D.

Piatt, J.A . •
Toor, George-9.

STRIOKEN Fli.0'.'d ROLL l 'OR NOI\- ?AYMENT OF DUE3 :

Chapman, J. C.

28

[217]

Farley, M. H.-2.

438

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[Ma!/,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF OALIFOB.NIA..

Arcata Lodge, No. 106.

Lexingto_n Lodge, No. 104.

Union, Humboldt County,

Lexington, Los Angeles County.

Stated Meetings, first Monday in each montli..

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each montli.
OFFICERS•

Jas. H. Maddux, Secretary,
Silas Bennett, Sen. Dearon,
W.W. Maxey, Jun. Deacon,
Jas. R. Youree, 'lifter.

Thomas A. Mayes, Wor. MatJter,
N. Beardslee, Sen. Warden,
M. A. Tyler, Jun. Warden,
Edward B. Tyler, P,.e,amrer,

OFFICERS1 .

B. H. Wyman, Wor. _Hiister,
J.C. Bull, Sen. Warde.n,
D. Masten, Jun. Warden,
Henry Stern, Treasurer,

Walter Van Dyke, Se.cretary,
Isaac Colberg, Sen. Deacon,
A. H. Murdoch, Jun. Deacon,
Austin Wiley, Tyler.
Past Jllaster 1

Pll.!lt !Uaders 1

B. H. Wyman.

Silas Bennett,

B. F. Coopwood.
MASTER MASONS :

Barton, Benj.
Bettis, Elijah
Coopwood, Bethel
Ellis, T. O.

Fryer, R. C.
Gentry, Frank
Johnson, J. G.
Kyle, P.

Lowe, J. H.
Norboe, Joh!}
Reed, John
Rubottom, W.W.

Stockton, W. M.
Swigert, T. C.
Weir, John
Winfrey, R. H.-25.

FELLOW CRAFT:

Dunlap, John-1.
ENTERED

MASTER MASONS:

Beckwith, L. C.
Block, A. J.
Cushing, Horatio
,Daniels, H. S.
Deming, Byron
Duncan, Reuben
Farrell, J. D.

Fleishman, H.
Manheim, Isaac
Jacoby, Aug.
Maxwell, J. J\i.
Juillard, C. F.
l\filler, J. H.
Juillard, C. L.
i'fewkirk, I. J.
Legg, F. W.
Nordheimer, B.
Luddington, H . Y. Parker, R. F.
FELLOW CRAFTS :

APPRENTIC~;s:

Brite, Jno. M.

Nixon, W.

Whips, S. P.-2.
Norris, Benj.

De Bertrand, E.-1.

Robinson, G. N. G.-3.

DIED:

WITHDRAWN:

Fleishman, J.
Hulme, Geo.

Rubuttom, E. H.-1.

Stro.wbridge, G.-2.
ENTERED APPRENTICE :

WITHDRAWN:

Hunter, E.

Roskill, F.
Sinsheimer, S.
Stlmislowsky, G.
Stone, J.
Wiley, R.
Wilson, J. G.-33.

Lake, H. W.

Love, G. J.

Molony, J. R.-:;.

STRICKEN FROll ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES:

McLean, H. H.

Seely, S. P.

Strawbridge. J.-S.

DIED:

Xixon, Isaac-1.

Siskiyou Lodge, No. 105.
Henley, Shklyou Count:r•

Stated Meetings, first .Vonday in each month.

Mount Jefferson Lodge, No. 107.

OFFICERS t

Garrote, Tuolumne County.

Jno. M. Runkle, Secreta.ry,
S. S. Williams, Sen. Deacon,
William Lee, Jun. Deacon,

Daniel Grosse, Wor. Master,
L. M: Hazlitt, Sen. Warden,
Jno. S. Dudley, Jun. Warden,
A. Haserick, Preasurer,

- - _ .__ ' Tyler.
Past Maste1· :

Daniel Grosse.
MASTER l\IASO!<S:

Bostwick. Eph.
Hazlitt, J ..H.

ENTERED APl'RENTlCES :

Jose, W. P.

Shattuck, S.

Stiles, .A.-4.

Pruit l'lln•t.er 1

Ditzler, Jacob

t21s1

Edward T. Harper.
Blye, Jos. N.
Buck, Joshua
Campbell, M. M.
Dexter, A. G.

Green, Jc10. Il.
Harris, I~aac
Jordan, W.R.

Low, Harrison
Morris, B. F.
Peterson, E. J.

}'ELLOW CRAFT :

WITHDl~A WN :

Blanchard, Wm.

John Macfarlane, Se.cretarg,
Peter Daley, Sen. Dtaean,
John Martin, Jun. De.aeon,·
William C. Stewart, Tijler.

MASTER MASONS :

FELLOW CRAFT:

Aikman, W.

OFFICER.St

E'.l ward T. Harpar, Wor. Master, .
Winslow Hubbard, Sen. Warden,
Thomas H. Burns, Jun. Warden,
James Tannahill, Treasurer,

Hernon, A. M.
Ottenheimer, Wm. Richardson, Jno.
Highlander, Ph. . Rhodes, 0. M.
Ross, Ephrai!11._..,.15.
Bowman, B.-1.

HesP, E.

Stated Meetings, last Saturday in each month.

Ro~inbum, A. J.-4.

Hamm, J. S.-1.

rz191

Shepherd, Jas.
Stumper, Isaac
Underwood, J. K.
-21.

440

[May,

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

1858.]

Past Mastcr1

Tannahill, Alex.-l.

W.W. Wixom.

WITHDRAWN:

.Arnhold, Willia.·111

Wheeler, Willia~-3.

Plaster, J no. H.

441

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOl\NJA.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

STRICKEN FROll ROLL FOR NON-PAYMENT OF DUES.

Crockett, Amos-1.

MASTER MASONS :

Ashton, Willis
Bosley, J . N.
Colette, Daniel
Fraser, Alex.

Jennings, J. J.
Laird, D. W.
l\Ierryman, B. S.
McKee, H.

Ogden, J.C.
Prescott, L. R.
Sbimelum. L.
Stone, J. H .

Sturtevant, l. H.
Woodruff, H. R.
-2S.

FELLOW CRAFTS:

Dorrington, Albert

Cannon, H.

Cremer, M.-3.

ENTERED .APPmmTICJ;s :

Owen Lodge, No. 108.

Borrington, D. A. Holbrook, H.
Do.olittle, A. J.
Lund, Werner

John1on'a Bar, Siskiyou County.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding Pull .Moon.

McClond, F.-6.

WITHDRAWN :

Bailey, F. E.

OFFICERS I

Moore, Thos. ~·

Plain, Benjamin

Rieb, Isaac-3.

Gilbert Lanphier, Wor. Ma,,ter,
J. W. Sinclair, Sen. Deacon,
William Hackney, Jun. Deacon,
John A. Holden, Sen. Warden,
Charles Travelli, Marshal,
William P. Pool, Jun. Warden,
W. H. St. John, Preaaurer,
S. M. Boblet,
l St d
Augustin Haas, f ewar 8'
J. M. Robinson, Secretary,
J. W. Stevenson, 1Yler.

Pajaro Lodge, No. 110.

Po.st ~In.ster 1

Wntaon-vllle, Santa Cruz County.

Gilbert Lanphier.

Stated Meetings, third Saturday in each month.

MASTER MA:!!ONS:

Berggrew, Aug.
Berry, Chae. W.
Colrlreu, E. L.
Dixo11, P. B.
Elzy, A. N.
l<'el\gles, R. L.
Frueman, O. D.

Garretson, Job
Goodall, Oliver
Huff, William
Jost. Charles
Kilgannon, M. F.
Lindsey, J. H.
Marfleld, John

OFFICERS1

Miller, Joseph
Rogers, F. A.
McLaughlin, J. B. Sawyer, J. C.
McQuade, Andrew Simon, Siegmund
Nichols, M. M.
Tickner, H. C.
Prindle, C. W.
Walker, J. J.
Reinwald, Wm.
Williams, D. D.-38.
Rice, Isaac K.

N. A. Hicks, Wor. Master,

N. A. Hicks.

Breckenridge, J. L.-1.

MASTER MASONS:

E:\'TERED APPRENTICES :

Hicks, G. A.
J a.cobs, Benj.

Nicholson, James

Armstrong, J. B.
Buttles, J. F.
Creegan, Jame~
Cormack, J a.mes

Douglass, James
Durham, Eph.
Hall, Solon

White, Michael-6.
I

WITHDRAWN:

Blackburn, J. H.
Cathers, James
Godchaux, L. D.

Johnson, D.
Johnson, J. G.

Dibble Lodge, No. 109.
Al}>ha, Ne-vada County,

Stated .Meetings, .Monday of or next preceding Pull .Moon.
OFFICERS•

W.W. Wixom, Wor . .M1Uter,
Calvin Hall, &eretary,
.
James B. Prewett, Sen. Warden,
Arthur Moore, Sen. Deacon,
J. P. Binns, Jun. Warden,
H. J. Hoffman, Jun. Deacon,
Charles Steinmets, Prea8Urer,
J. V. A. Lansing, Marahal,
James Bridges, 1Yler.

Menasco, M. L.
Sanborn; L.

Sinclair, P.
Wise, Preston-21.

ENTERE~ APPRENTICE:

•

Howard, Ji;io. S.
Reid, John
Hughes, James L. Soape, 'fhos. M.
Jacobson, S.
Taggart, G. I.-13.

[220]

T. M. Davis, Jun. Deaton,·
B. Parrott, Marshal,
J. A. Norris,
l .,
S. W Kitchen, f .,t,ewarda,
L. A. See, 1Yler.
Past Master•

FELLOW CRAFT:

Fisher, James
Girourd, L.

\V. W.Joyce,Sen. JJ~

C. G. Menasco, Sen. Warden,
M. Gagnon, Jun. Warden,
Charlee Ford, Preaaurer,
J . B. Tyus, Secretary,
James F. White, Oliap/,ain,

Carter, Cha.rles-1.
STRICKEN FROM ROLL FOR NON-PAYMEJS'r OJI DUE! :

Whitlock, H. G.-2.

Barry, Edward

Chico Lodge, No. W.
Chico, Butte County.

Stated .Meetings, third Saturday in each month.
OFFICERS a

A. Wood, Wor. MaMer,
C. Wheeler, &n. Warden,
Chas. Wade, Jun. Warden,
J as. H. Co1e, Treasurer,
Wm. P. Tilden, &eretary,

[221]

W. O. Middleton, Sen. Deacon,
J eremiah Watson, Jun.Deacon,
Samuel Neal, l
A. M. Sadorns, f Stewarda,
Wm. J. Everett, 1Yler. ·

442

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.)

MASTER MASONS:

Past MW1ters

John Bidw.ell.
MA.STER MASONS:

Brown, Elisha
Carstens, Peter
Jackson, St. John
Jennings, H. U.

Kinson, E. B.
Lee, Wesley
Maine, John
McCormick, J.E.

Nicholl, John
Pence, M.
Sill, Danlel, Sr.

8mith, J.B.
Taber, George
Tatham, Jo,hn-25.

Ba.II, C.
Du Bois, Ja.s.
Boone, Geo. W.
Fleming, _~. K.
Carrick, D. S.
Hamilton, Noble
Chauncey, Edmund Hamilton, W. G.
Church, A. M.
Kennedy, Wm.
Dixon, E. F.
Lacey, David S.

Leland, Geo. W.
Lengfeldt, Louis
Marlin, John
Marlin, J.B.
Mason, J . R.
Pease, Wm. C.

Singer, Alex.
Smith, H. C.
Tool, C.B.
Vite, John
Van Sickles, J. H.
-34.

WITHDRAWN:

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Hays, Stokely D.

443

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Norcross, L. llf.-1.

L ongmore, A. C.-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES.

Burnham, Lewis

Harlom, B. M.

Mayhew, W. P.

Sill, Daniel, Jr.-4.

WITHDRAWN ·:

Ba.rdshar, E. J .
Froman, S.
Burns, Alexander Lowe, David

Polk, W. E.

Mount Zion Lodge, No. 114.

Sparks, R. H.-6.

G1·lzzly FIRt, El Do1·odo County,

Stated Meetings, Friday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFFICERS:

Summit Lodge, No. .112.
Knight's Ferry, San Jooquln Count)"

Stated Meetings, Saturday of or next preceding Full Moon.
OFJ:o"':ICERS1

J . A. Whetstone, Sen. JJ=<m,
William Palmer, Jun. D=on,
Jeff. D. Bentley, } Steward&.
John J. Tayson,
Andrew Mcsorley, 'l'yler.

M. C. Edwards. Wor. Maater,

Stephen Bishop, Sen. Warden.
Andrew J. Lane, Jun. Warden,
Henry Palmer, TretUurer,
Wm. E. Steuart, Stt:re/,ary,

Post Moster '

M. C. Edwards.
MASTER !llASONS:

Allen, H. T.
Dent, Geo. W.
Dillon, Joseph

Duncan, Beaumont Lane, Thos. W.
Harman, Henry
Lane, Wm. l•'.
Honigsberger, Jos. Papers, Jas. M.

Reed, Wm. H.
Snodgrass, I. S.-21.

FELLOW CRAFT:

William McKean, Wor. Maaer,
G. W. Heath, Chaplain,
Ja.s. H. Watson, Sen. Warden,
John N. Stultz, Sen. D=on,
Chas C. McLean, J1Un. Warden,
William K. Hoyt, Jun. D=on,
M. O. Hubbard, Prea.mrer,
S. M. Slaughter, Marahal,
D. W. Strohn, Secretary,
B. R. Phillips, Steward,
R. S. Johnson, Tyler.
PRSt Maste1·:

William McKean.
~IASTER MASONS:

Ada.ms, Ira N.
Allan, M. C.
Barnes, S. R.
Clark, Robt. J.
Cobb, Jno, R.
Connell, J as. M.
Davis, Wm. H.
Dean, Samuel

Lawrence, George

I•;NTERED APPRENTICE:
WITHDRAWN:

Skirm, J. H.-1.

Jacks, John S.
King, Elijah
Knox, William
Lawrence, Ez.
Lyon, Stephen H.
Morganstein, M.
McCrea.dy, Curtis

McCreery, Alex.
McKean, Franklin
Riehl, Adam
Smith, H. G.
Steely, J. W.
Wa.rflflld, Wm.
Wixon, J . C.-40.

ENTE!tED APPRENTICES:

Krause, Geo. H.-1.
Dent, John C.-1.

Finney, Wm. M.
Folsom, Ja.s. llf.
Frasier, John
Goldstein, Samuel
Hampton, J. M.
Harvey, G. C.
Hoelin, Jacob

Lee, Henry-2.

WITHDRAWN:

Aura.ha.ms, L.
Boswell, N. C.

Maguire, C. A.

Riley, John W.

Zollars, Fred.-6.

DIED:

McKean, G. W.-1.

Eden Lodge, No. 113.
!!an Leandro, Aloineda Comity.

St. Mark's Lodge, No. 115.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next succeeding Pull Mv01i.

Flddletown, Amador County.

OFFICERS:

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Full Moon.

P. E. Edmondson, Wor. Master,
Jos. H. Taylor, Sen. Warden,
Joseph Demont, Jun. Warden,
Herbert Patterson, Treaaurer,
C. L. Goodrich, Secretary,

A.H. Broder, &n. Deacon,
Jno. W. Carrick, J un. Deacon,
John Chisholm, Marslw.l,
H. M. Vesey,
} Stewarda
J. R. McDonald,
'
J. L. Shinan, 'l'yler.

OFFICERS1

F. G. Hoard, Stt:retary,
Thomas Hora, Sen. Deacon,
- -- - -- Jun. DtalXln,
D. M. Goff, Tyler.

F. L. Sullivan, .Wor. Maater,
T. M. Horrell, Sen. Warden,
J.B. Hill, Jun. Warden,
Lewis Zirker, Preaaurer,

Post lllaster •

Pnat Mnster 1

P. E. Edmondson.

F. L. Sullivan.

[222]

l223 J

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

MASTER MASONS :

Burton, Benj.
Dent, Se.muel
Fe.rquhe.r, Jas.
Fitzgerald, H. W.
Gradhwol, M.

Griflln, C. E.
Horrell, A. B.
Hunstable, J. H.
Kuchenthal, H. A.

Past Masten 1

Miller, Lewis
Morey, N. L .
McDonald, H. W.
Phelps, F. W. M.

Rowland, A. B.
Spear, Jno. L.
Webber, William
Wood, A. P.-2i.

J. L. Thompson,

Forsythe, Joseph

Johnson, J. M.-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Blum, Isaac
Clemens, H.

Goldkofor, C.F.llf. W. Quinn, A.
Gould, T. J.

Wilson, Monroe-6.

Ackley, Warren
Bryant, J.

Buddivent. P. L.
Herzog, Philip

Ault, Matthias
Brown, J . H.
Fenno, C. A.

Keithly, A.
Radcliffe, Robert
Shorey, S, A.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

OFFICERS:

Wm. A. Russell, Wor. Mruter,
Wm. Harland, Sen. Warden,
Edward Kahn, Jun. Warden,
Charles Shanks, Tr~urer,

A. W. Genung, StJCrdary,
Fred. Faxon, Sen. Dtacon,
Wm. Smith, Jun. Dtacon,
Wm. Crozier, Jli;ler.

Past Master 1

Past Mnster 1

Henry P. Benton.

J. W. Griswold.

MASTER MASONS :

MABTEU MASONS :

Young, Wm.P.-16.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Parker, W. E.

Ward, William-3.

WITHDRAWN:

Cohn, Heiman

Monlton, U. F.-!l

Valleclto, Calaveras County.

William McClure, Secretary,
Francis Discomber, Sen. Deacoo,
J. D. Sampson, Jun. Deacon,
John Doble, Tyler.

Simpson, J . M.

Galway, Richard

Moran, L. F.

Wiggin~. Geo.
Zeitler, Chas.-10.

Stated, Meetings, first Saturday in eacli montli .

OFFICERS•

Atiner, :!!'rank

Sowler, T. Y.
Whitcomb, F. P.

Vallecito Lodge, No. 118.

Stated M~tings, Wednesday next pre~ding Full Moon.

Hugo, Henry
Schupcah, John

Walter, J.-20.

WITHDRAWN :

Wlndlor, Sierra County.

Brown, H. L.
De.vis, J . D.

Rose, E. A.
Thayer, N. D.

Little, J.

Windsor Lodge, No. 116.

R.R. Johnson, Wor. M~ter,
J. A. Sperry, Sen. Warden,
H. G. Weir, Jun. Warden,
M. Armer, Treaturer,

B. B. Brown.

MASTER MASONS:

El!TERED APPRENTICES:

Davis, S. J.

44/i

Booth, J.B.
Hanford, W. H.
Hinckel, W.W.

Krause, William
Lewis, W. T.
Morri8, W. R.

lfnll, Eli
Smith, J. K.
McLaughlin, .J. W. Stiver, Jamee-19.
·

PELLOW CRAFTS:

Montgomery,. M. M.

Moore, ·.James

Zaum, S.-3.

J<:NTERED APPRENTICE :

Serand, Paul-4.

Kattenh~i:n, H. H.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Beach, G. H.

lmhrie, A. C.

RoadhouRe, J. K. Smith, J. B.~.

Concord Lodge, No. 117.
\

Sacramento, Sacramento County.

Clinton Lodge, No. 119.

Stated, Medinga, firat Saturday in each mfmth.
OFFICERS1

J. L. Thompson, Wor. M~ter,
J. L. Polhemus, Sen. Warden,
Levi Hermance, Jun. Warden,
J. Freiderichs, Tr=rer,
William Sinclair, Secrtt.ary,
David Deal, Ohaplain,

Honetown, Shasta County.
.

L. H. Frazelle, Sen. De.aeon,
W. H. Barton. Jun. Deuon,
J. H. McKune, Marshal,
E. Jacobs, l "I
d
John Renz, f .,, ewar s,
N. A. Kidder, 'l'yw.

[2241

Stated Meetings, Wednesday of or next precedin,q Fttll Moon.
OFFICERS a

Thomas Hart, Wor. MIUler,
Henry Collins, Sen. Warden.
H. H. Lull, Jun. Warden,
Peter Cohen, Treasurer,
2'J

,John H. Hough, StJCrda.ry,
- - - - - - , &n. DMron,
- - - ---,Jun. Deacon,
- - - - , 'l'yler.

l225l

446

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

[Mav,

1858.]

MASTER MASONS:

Baxton, Charles
Brooks, Joseph
Chandler, F. B.
Green 1 Thomas

Griffin, George
Hoagland, J. N.
Keenan, Michael
Launder, Henry

Lemon, James
Linn, Edward
Marriott, Thoe.
McAuliffe, D. R.

PRst 1'Iaster 1

W. C. Rich.
MASTER MASONS :

Barclay, W. P.
Barton, C. A.
Cole, H.M.
Coleman, E.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

James, William

Murphy, Michael-2.

ENTERED APPR~:NTICJ::

Ludwig, Henry-1.

Coleman, J. C.
Dods, James
Honse!. W. A.
Ladd, H. C.

McDowell, Jno.
Phillips, J. W. D.
Newman, Thos. A. Prior, Joseph
Parkison, G. W.
Purman, Henry
Pendleton, Benj.

Pebelic, J.

Roden, John IJ.
Sharp, Robert
White, Chauncey
-14.

Rich, J. J .
Rodolph, Godfrey
Thurmnn, L. B.-25.

Smith, A.-2.
.l': NTERED APPREN'flCE:

McGowan, Charles-I.

Fidelity Lodge, No. 120.

Alamo Lodge, No. 122.

San Francl1co, Snn 14,ranclsco County.

Stated Meetings, first Thursday in each month.

Alnmo, .contrn Costa County.

OFFICER!i11

Stated Meetings, Saturday next succeeding Pull Moon.

Louis Cohn, Wor. Maat.er,
H. Falkenstein, Sen. Deae<m,
F. A. Benjemin, Sen. Warden,
Emanuel Levy, Jun. Deacon,
Seixas Solomons, Jun. Warden,
II. Rosenfield, Jfarahal,
D. Abrahams, Tr«UUrer,
S. Barnett, i Stewarda
J. McKenn11, Secret,ary,
W. H. Culver, f
'
· Joel Noah, (of Occidental Lodge, No. 22,) Tyler.

1

Pnst Mnst"r :

Gambitz, K.
Godchaux, Jos.
Goldsmith, L.
Houseman, James
Kalisher, E. D.
Levi, S.

Malotovlch, A.
Meyer, William
Roassi, D. B.
Schier, GalJriel
Smiley, G. W.
Sutro, G.

)

.

OFFICERS:

John E. Mitchell, Wor. Mas/er,
Sidney Maupin, Secret,ary,
F. Vandeventer, Sen .. Warden,
Cornelius Yager, Chaplain,
J. N. B. Mitchell, Jun. Warden,
J. T. Flippin, Sen. Deacon,
Jno. M. White, Treasurer,
J. C. O'Brian, Jun. Dearon.
J. L. Labarree, Tyler.
MASTER MASONS :

Louis Cohn.
MASTER MASONS:

Adler, Julius
Cahn, Leopold
Carter, R. W.
Christy, R.
Craner, S.
Eastburn, T. L.

Lancaster, J.
P11tton, W. H.
Priest, D. Q.
Priest, J. J. •

FELL'>W CltAl'rS:

WITHDRAWN :

Cathcart, A. J.
Johnston, W. E.
Kaskell. John
Martin, J e8se

447

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Norton, J. H.
Prior, Athanasius
Van V11lzah, J.M.
-20,

Uhlfeder, S.
Van Stratten, D. E.
Weil, Henry
Woolf, Ab.
Woolf, B.-33.

Allen, James
Brian, G. W.

Burton, W. T.

Gobel, G. W.

~'ELLOW

Wyatt, William--14.

CRAFTS:

Hemme, August

J ones, Nath11niel-2.

ENTERED APPRENTICE:

Thirston, Joseph-I.

l 'ELLOW CRU'T :

!<'ell, E. R.-1 .
.•;NTERED APPRENTICE :

Sotoyomi Lodge, No. 123.

Wallace, J. S.-1.
WITHDRAWN:

Ellis, E. D.

l'eck, R.

Sharp, LouiR

Healdsburgh, Sonuma County.

Woolf, John J,.-4.

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding ~Jilull Moon.
01''FICERS:

Ionic Lodge, No. 121.
Iowa Hill, Pla<'cr County.

MASTE!t MA80NS:

Stated Meetings, Wedne,,day of 01· nezt preced1'.n9 Pull Moon.
01''FICERS I

E. H. Van Decar, Wor. Maater,
Thos. P. Slade, Sen. Warden,
Wm. C. Rich, Jun. Warden,
I. Stockwell, TreaBUrer,
J. II. Neff, SP.CretaMJ,

J. C. Simpson, Sen. Deacon,
J. M. Powers, Jun. Deae<m,
G. E. Smith,
i "'t d
J . F. Vnndeviere, f "'''l':War .,
J. Swartwout, ~f!yler.

(22G)

A. B. Aull, &cretary,
J . S. Orm8by, Sen. Deacon,
H. P. Swain, Jun. Df,(},fb71,
Willis Thornton, Tyler.

John N. Bailhache, Wor. M(J1Jter,
1'J. Sindheimer, Sen. Warden,
R. Powell, Jun. Warden,
J. G. McManus, 'Prla8llrer,

\

Albertson, Joseph Bonham, B. B.
Brown, Josiah
Bamford. W.
Carson, Lindsey
Belden, Joseph

Cavanagh, Jno.
Fike, N.
Grant, Jno. D.

Hartman, W. B.
Ireland, Johnson
McManus, Jas.- 20.

FHLOW CRAFTS:

Engle, H. S.

Laymanee, Isaac

Stanley,. Wm.-3.

EN'l ERED APPRENTlCEB :

Estis, J etfer&on

Johnson, ·R. J.

[2271

Richter, C.-3.

RE'.l'URNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

Table Mountain Lodge, No.124.
Oroville, Butte County.

1858.]

MASTY.lt MASO~S:

Cockerill, T. G.
Ely, William

Morris, J. H. P.

Markell, David

Taber, Wm. L.-111.

l 'ELLOW C~U'rS:

Stated Meeling8, first Tuesday in each montlt.

Kuft'el, Isaac

O FFICERS1

George H. Crossette, Wor . .Meuler,
N. Dennis Witt, Sen. Warden,
C. F. Lott, Jun. Warden,
H. Reynolds, Trtamrer,

uo

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

Piercy, Chas. W.-2.

E~ERED APPRENTICES:

C. F. Volton, St.cretary,
Thoe. Callon, Sen. Dea;;on,
D. G. O'Donnell, Jun. Deaum,
- - - - - , 'l'yler.

M~Guire, P. ~:-2.

Hill, James

l\1ASTJ>lt MASONS:

Hammon, M. W.
Howard, J. G.

Gaston, H. A.
Gridley, R. C.

Marple,.J. H.
Wells, Thomas-15.

Johnson, :Frank
Keating, J. D.

~'ELLOW

Hermann Lodge, No. 127.
San Franclaco, Gra1fochof't von Snn Franclaco.

CltAFI':

Regelmaesll'ige versammlungen, den dritten Donner-stag im m~nat.

Berry, J. S.-1.
ICNTERED APPRENTICES:

Clark, J. M.

Fostrem, G. W.

Leovy; A. F.-a.

Progress Lodge, No. 125.

BEAlllTEN1

John ~·Reichert, Elirw. .Meiaw,
Karl Proschold, Erater Schaffner,
Christian G. Stahl, Erster Aufuher,
II. W. Nolting, Zweiter Schaffner
l•'rancis Staud, Zweiter Aefuher,
Friederich Rasclie Marachall, ·!
William A. Krahe, Schmzmei8ter,
John Metz
{
·
Jacob F. Haehnlen, &cretair,
.
J. A. Lafo~taine, f Stewarth,
Phineas Gardner, (yon California Loge,) Waechter.
Alt l.tlelster 1

Man Franrl11Co, San Franclaco County.

Jacob F. Haehnlen.

Stated Neetings,f01trth Monday in eaclt rnontlt.

MEISTER MAURER :

O FFICERS1

Czapkay, L. J.-11.

Levi Keller, Wor. Maater,
Jno. }f. Martin, Sen. Warden,
Henry' Danziger, Jun. Warden,
A. Craner, '/lreamrer,

- - - - - - , Swretary,
S. Grassheim, Sen. Deacon,
B. Joseph, Jun. Deacon,
P. Gardner, (ofCal. Lodge,) 'l'ykr.

*Folsom Lodge, U. D.

Pnot lUa~tc>' 1

Levi Keller.

Folsom, So.crameuto County.

MASTER MASONS:
Andrew~. A.
Ashim, S.
Braham, E.

Caro, M.
Chamikow, R.
· Gallick, W.

Levy, A.
.L ippmann, }'.
LouiSl!on, M.

l'lato, I>.
Wey!, F.
Wolf, C.-Itl.

l 'ELLOW CRA.lTS :

Ashim. 11!. D.
Fox, E.

Latz, Henry

Nation, Il. C.

Williams, N.-6.

Stated Meetings, Thursday of or next preceding .J<lull Moon.
OFFICERS:

Leverett Bradley, Wor. Master,
'Calvin Hall, Sen. Warden,
John Waters, Jun. Warden,
H. F. Kellum, 1lrta11Urer,
Pa~t

ENTEllED APPRENTICES :

Berliner, H. H.

Wm. Timson, Secretary,
A. O. Carr, Sea. Dea;;on,
G. M. Cole, Jun. Deacon,
J. W. Gaylord, 'l'yler.

Samuels, J.

l.tloster 1

Leverett Bradley.
MASTER MASONS:

Jlarker, S.
Cole, L. G.
Dresser, W. W.

Lafayette Lodge, No. 126.
OFFICERS1

Wm. G. Lee, Wor. Maater,
Jacob Fouts, Sen. Warden,
Losson Ross, Jun. Warden,
Wm. Henry, 1'reaaurer,

L228J

Richard Dickens, Swretary,
John Ryan, Sen. Dea.con,
Andrew Fife, Jun. Dea;;on,
Benj: S. Burns, 'J'ylu.

Tipps. J.C.
Waddi\ove, H.B.
-18.

FELLOW CRAFTS :

Spruance, John.

Bodega, Sonoma County,

Stated Meetings, Saturday next preceding Pull Moon.

Griggs, George · Morris, R.
Rees, W. D.
Palmer. c.·T. H.
:Meredith, J. S..,.

Winder, Jno. M.- 2.

ENTERED APPRENTICES:

Bagley, B. N.
Lewis, 0. C.

Shirland, E. D.

Tait, A. J .

WI'fllDRAWN:

Kullman, L.-1.
• Dl•pensatlqn surrendered, May, A. L· 5868.

(2291

Whitely, Thos.- 5.

1858.]
450

RETURNS OF SUBORDINATE LODGES TO THE

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

[May,

Visalia Lodge, U. D.
Vlillllla, Tnlare County.

Stated Meetings, tltird Saturday in each month.

EXPULSIONS AND SUSPENSIO:N S

OFFJCERS1

Thomas Baker, Secretary,

E. l<'. Storey, Wor. Miultr,
S. V. Hardesty, Sen. Warden,
A. H. Clark, Jun. Warden,
- - - - - - , Treasurer,

Barton, John
Becka.m, S. W.
Ellis, Radford
Howard, Henry
Hussey, William
Johnson, N. B.
Clampet, M.
Hubbs, J. R.
Baker, William
Chatten, R.

~ - - - , Sen. De.aeon,

DURING T::S:E "YE.AR.

- - - - - - , Jun. Dt,(JCOfl,
- - - - , Tyler.

MASTER. MASONS:
Keeney, J. R.
McClintock, S. R. Shelton,Johu
Stevens, J. B.
Kelsey, Samuel
Owens, Joshua
Thomas, J. N.
Lea.min, Chris.
Page, John
Thompson, J. D.
Majors, John P.
Rire, John
Wallace, B. F.
Mankins, J. J .
Sa.geley, R. B.
Wood, J. S. L.-28.
Meckley, J. S.
Sexton, M. M.
FELLOW CRAFTS:
Pheasant, W.
Poindexter, W. G. Smith, O. R.-5.
ENTER.ED APPRENTICES:
Mitchell, 0.
Patterson, J. A.

EXPULSIONS
CONFIRMED BY THE GRAND LODGE.
C. F. BRAINERD, ....... : .... by California
Lodge, No.· 1, Nov. 28, 1857.
CHmLES Cr.ARK,. . . . .. ...... " Golden Gate
"
" . 30, April 20, 1858,
JoSEPU MAYER, . .......... . . " The Grand Lodge,
May 15, "
EXPULSIONS

Bolda.ti, F.-5.

By the Lodgea, whuh, for lade of the nece:iaary tramcripts of proceeding•, 1ui.ve not been
confirmed by the Grand Lodge, and whuh, in accorda~ with I.ht
regulations, stand as Swpensio11s.

TERENCE KELLY, ............ by San Franci.sco
W. B. OumTEAD, . . . . . . . . . . . " 'Jlrinity
PHILIP How1n,r.,.. . . . . . . . . . . . <; GoW. llill
JosEPH MAY, . ... ...... . ..• . '' Mount Jloririli.
CHARLES LAl!ALLE, ....•..•.. " B,ising Star
. PHIUP McKENNA,. . . ...• .... " Summit

Lodge, No. 7,· July 10, 1857.
"
" 27,
13, "
" " 32, " 5, "
" " 44, April 24, 1858.
" " 83, Oct. 3, 1857.
" 112, Sept. 26, "

SUSPENSIONS.
0. J. PRESTON, . ... , ... .. ... by California.
Lodge, No. 1,
M. GREENEBAUM,. .. . ....... . " Yount
" " 12,
N. McKDDIEY, .....•.•... . ... "
"
W. BABCOCK, ... . .... ... .... " Hawaiian
" 21,
GEORGE WILLIAMS, ..... . . .. ,,
"
" " "
J. L. llloosE, ....... ..... ... " Rough and Ready "
" 52,
D. McDoNAr.n, ....•......•. " Santa Rosa
" 57,
PETER A. BOSSERT, ...... .. . " George Washington "
" 62,
A. A. CAMPAU, ...•... ··•··· " Natoma
" " 64,
G. A. WILSON, . .... ...•.. ... " Minnesota
" 67,
D. W. Cu:w&s, . .. .
" Mountain Forl!llt " " 75,
D. HARDY, .. . ............. " I' "
" " "
"
A.B. HAYWAl.ID, .. ... ....... " Lexington
" 104,

(231)
[230\

Dec.
Mar.

5, ]857.
6, 1858.

"
"

" "

13, 1857.
Jan. ll, 1858Oct. 17, 1857.
Dec. 22, "
Feb. 28, "
Oct. 24, "
April 19, l 858.
Dec. 26, 1857.
Mar. 28, 1858,
April 24, "

l,ODGES.

rj

9
[

·ysilii

TOWN.

'PLACY.

-_

OF

-

-

-

I
COUNTY.

LOCATION.

-

. - - 7.

-

ORl)ERJ:D.

DA.TY.WHEN
CHARTER WAS

1·

141

1~

; :'

gt!

I

m

j

~

1·

jt.

~

~

I . - r:;..;"' s --~ ~
I
;~ £gj r~ 1t: ir-j ~!.i

O>
...._

LEBANOS, ••.•••••••

44 FORIJESTOWN, .... .. .
45 lLLISOISTOWN1 • • • • ,
4.6 ROUGH AND READY, .
47 ST. JAMES,. ••••.•..
48 SUISUN, .......... .
49 VoLcA..'\O,. •• • • • •• •
50 SANTA Ros.1., ...... .
51 Ul\ION, . ......... ..
52 GR.AXEL R.rnGE,. •••
53 PLUl!A.81 • • • • • • • • • •
54 LIVE OAK,. ....... .
55 GEO. wAl!HINGTON, •
• IowA Hn.r.,..... . . .
56 N.lTOMA, .•••••••••
57 AMADOR,. •••••••••
58 FOREST,. . . . . . . . . ..
59 lfrN:-o;sou,. . .•..•.

•

26 GOLDEN GATE,. • . ••
27 MOKELUM.NE,. •• •• ••
28 GOLD Hn.r., .••.•. •
29 OPHIR,. . . . . . . . . . . .
30 S A.NT A. CLllu.,..... .
w 31 SAN DIEGO,. ....•..
o 32 BUTTE, ........... .
33 ST. JOHN'S, ..••••••
34 SANTA CRuz,.. .....
35 YmJA., .. . . ••••••..
36 SACRAMENTO, ... , . ,
37 ?ifARTINEZ1 . . . . . , • • •
38 Los ANGELES,. •••.
39 HmAM, ... ......••
40 MOUNT MORIAH, ••••
41 CRESCENT, • . •••••••
42 TExA.S,. . .. . ......•
~ 43 MrCRlGAX CITY, .•.•
O>

14

"I

I..

:r

,,

3;

..

.".

..

"
"

,,

1..

·r· ..

~

~

II>-

F

21

6Pl

~

~

Q
l'.".l

t:I

0

t<

t:I

Q

w

00

°'

00

.....

~

,....,
~

l"l

0

21

~

"'l'.".l

.....

t.<J
~

z

,....

0
~

21

00

t.<J

0

t+
t:I
0

"t

0

~

tn

t<
,....

~·

~

I °'

914•

. . lf. . d 3 12 8 112
1 11 10 5 . . .
30 San Francisco, . . . . . . . San Francisco, ..• May ~1
16 5 39
1. .. .
31 Mokelumne Hill, .... . Cala'Veras, . . . . . • "
" " 52 42 24 i3 33 11.
4 2 30
.. ..
"
32 Oro City, ............ Placer,..........
"
3 3 35
7 6
33 :Murphy's,......•••••• Calaveras, . . . . . • "
"
"
,,
27
11 . . 1. . ....
.. ... ..
4. .. .
4 3 53 . . 3. 14
34 Santa Clara, ...•..... Santa Clara,.... . "
4 4 6 a a . i . ... a a z .. . 27
35 San Diego,. . . ..•••• .• San Diego, • • • • . • "
7 "
14
1854 2 2 2 ... 14 11. . ....... .· 2 .. .
36 Bidwell's Bar, . •.•.... Butte,.••...•. . . • May
1. 3 5 5 32
37 Yreka, ...... . ....... Siskiyou,...... .. "
" " 8 8 118 21 g4 1l ....
3 3 36
,. . . 1 ...
38 Santa Cruz, .. • ....... Santa Cruz,... . . . "
"u 138 137 8 4 11 . .. -·..
...
3 3 1 42
"
39 Marysville, .. • .. • • .. . Yuba, . . . . . .. .. . "
37
40 Sacramento,.. . . . . • . . Sacramento,.. . . . "
" 128 57 48 12 54 .. 1. ..-. ...... ..1 2 56 12 38
41 Martinez, . ....• . ... .. Contra Costa, . . • "
"
"
u
57
1
12
5
9
2
1
.
..
..
..
1
18 10
5,
42 Los Angeles,. ...... . . Los Angeles,. ... : "
2 2 1 49
43 El Dorado, ........... El Dorado, . .. .. • " ·3, " 12 10 9 6 2 ........ ..
5 8 8 g 16 6 1.. 1 5 12· 5. 127
44 San Francisco, .,•..... Sau Francisco, . . . "
"
27
.
3
2
1. . .... .
4.5 Crescent City,........ . Del Norte,....... "
"4, " 53 51 31 51 78 .....
3 10 1 31
.... .
46 San Juan,. ........... Monterey, . .. . . . . "
55
3, " 10 8 8 8 3 2 .... 2 2 4
47 Michigan muffs, ...... Placer, ••• • •. . . . "
1
..... 1. ..
49 San Francisco, • . ..••. San Francisco,. . . "
" " 141 111 91 53 · 53 .......
50 Forbcstown, ...... . ... Butte,........... "
" " 2 2 2 ... 2 , . . . . . . . .2. . . . . .. 1 30
29
51 Illinoistown, . ••..••.. Placer, •• . . . • . . • "
" 6 8 5 3 2 ..• 1 •• 1 }. 2 4 43
52 Rough and Ready, .... Nevada,......... "
"2, 1856
" 1 1 2 2. 10 • . . . . • . . . . . . . 6 2 32
54 Jamestown, ... . .. . ... Tuolumne,..... . .
· 2 1 3 38
55 Suisun,........... . .. . Solano,.. . . . . . . . . "
" " 49 49 49 44 243 ...........
. . . . . . .... 12 1 29
56 Volcano, •........... Amador, ........ ''.
"
" 7 7 9 7 12 ... l. . ... 7 4
48
57 Santa Rosa, .......... Sonoma, . . . . ... . . "
8 8 8 2 8 ... .• .. ... ... 3 1 30
"
u
58 Sacramento,. ....• .. . . Sacramento, . . . . . "
II
7 7 7 6 7 .......... 5 1 3 43
59 Camptonville,. .. .. . .. Yuba,.. • . • . . . . . . "
38
6 4 7 115 ............. 11
60 Quincy, .••...•.....• Plumas,...... . . . · u
"
4 ;.. .• ..... ... 1 1 16
. ...
1
61 Oakland, ........ ... . Alameda, . . . . . . . "
"
"
29
2
62 Chinese, .. ....... . ... Tuolumne, . . . . . . "
3, " 10 9 8 2 3 . . . . . 1 · 1 7
1 4 1 7
63 Iowa Hill, ........... Placer,.......... "
"
1
2,
64 Folsom, . ••.•.•.. . ... Sacramento, . . . . . "
31 3 3 4 3
4 1 28
23
2
3 1 2... 4
65 Jackson, ............. Amador,..... . ... "
"
6
7 3 62
66 Forest City, .......... Sierra,. ... . . . . . . . "
16 14 18 4 121 s1 .. 1 1
"
"
1
...
38
6
67 ~inne~ota, ....... . ... Sierra,.. ....... . -~, "
" is 12 u 2 11 ...I 1 • J 1

I

Francisco,....... · I_ San Francisco,. .. IApril 19, 18501 22 19
8 18 1111 1 11 2.
l iC.!.LlFORNLl1 • • • • • •
1 .." . \ 322 17
4 163
74
2 ·Shasta, . . ...... . ... .. ,Shasta,. . .. ..... · 1 " ." "
6 10 9 7 18 1 . . ..
2\WESTERN ST.I.It,. .. .
5
17
11
...
"
1
..
.
10
2
75
3
:sacramento,.
.........
;sacramento,....
.
"
"
"
i
7
7
7
:l TEB..Hl.I......... . . .
i
38
5 !Benicia,........ .. . .. ;Solano,.........
"
"
" I 3 3 3 i ... 2 .... I 1 a i
4 BENlCl.I.; ......... .
2 8 6 I i .. 1 7 4 3 71
5iSAN FRA.'\ClSCO,. ••• 7 'San Francisco,..•... . . ;san Francisco, . .. No,·. 27, " j 5 5 8 3 81. .. . . . . 3 ... 4 5 59
8 ,Sonora,. ............. :Tuolumne,.......
"
·'
" i 5 7 5
61TuoLi::11xE,. ...... .
4 3 3 .. .. 1 ...
1 1 51
r:3 7 iMARYS'\'.ILLE, . . ... . 9 . ~larys\'illc, ........... 1Yuba,... .. ...... " " "
4 4 5
1 ... 11 1 64
10
iSanJose,
.....
.....
..
ISantaClara,.
....
"
"
"
7 5 6 5 6·1... .. ..
1
""
8
S.Ui
JosE,.
...
..
:
..
,
~
1 . . • 4 2 36
3 ·2 .. . 6 4 •• • 2 . .
9 Yoci.'T,. •. • • • •.••• 12 Napa, ... ...... . .... . !Napa,. .......... •May 6, 1851
7 2 64
"
"
14 10 9 8 16 4 . . . · \ 2 '
10 NEVADA,. •.... .... 13 .Nevada, ............. !Nevada, ....... .. "
2 . . . 2 3 22
"
"
2 .. . 2 1 5 11 . . . .
11 TEl!PLE, .... . . . . . . 14 'Sonoma, . . .... . .. .... 1Sonoma,. ..... ... 1 "
1 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 17
"
1 3 3. a
12 EUREKA, . ...... . . . 16 .\ Auburn, .......... .. . 1Placer,. ......... \Nov. 7,
5 1 .... 1 1... 4 5 21
13 PARFA!TE Ui.'ION, •• 17 :s:m F!8~cisco, . . • . . .. jS:m Francieco, . .. May fl, 1852 4 5 al 7 12 4 . . . . 1. . . . 5 9 1 59
"
"
"
8 8 nl
14 Moci-'TAIN SHA.DE, •• 18 IDO'l\-'11Lev1llc,...... .... -Sierra,... .. ......
1
"
"
5 5 5 i 2 6 ..... 1.. 1 5 4 ... 36
15 SAN JOAQUIN,. ••• • • 19 iStockton, ....... .... . \San Joaquin,... .. "
"
"
7 8\ 6 1 11 12 · · I ·• 1 ... · 10 7 80
16 WASHINGTON, ..• •. 20 :Sacramento,....... ... ,Sacramento, . .... "
1 2 . .. 21. " 1 4 5 .. . 53
"
"
14 Iii,
17 HAW.1.Il.l.N,. ... . . . . 21 ;Honolulu,. ......... .. IHawaiian Islands, "
8 4 17 .. 1 .. i 4 . • . 13 9 60
18 0CC1DENTAT., •••••• 22 1San Francisco, ........ San Francisco,. .. 1 " 20, " . 11 11 11
1 5 7 3 67
19 MAD1so:-1,. ... .. ... . 23 \Grass Valley,. ....... !Nevada,.... .. ... !May 5, 1853 11 13 13 43 87 ...3 I ..
.. ..
l
5 3 13 57
"
"
"
8 9 2
20 ?ifARIPOSA, ••.•.•.. 24 Mariposa,..•.•...•.... Mariposa, ..•.•...
"
"
7 10 8 3 15 3i.. .. .. . 3 12 7 49
21 GEORGETOWN,. •••• 25 Georgetown, . . • • • . . . . El Dorado, • . . . . . 1 "
5 4 2 63
6, "
10 10 10 11 9 ., , ., I . , . . ,
22 1EL DORADO,. ..... . 26 !Placerville, .......•.. El Dorado, ... . . · ·\ "
4\ i
61
"
5, " J 7 6 10 5 13 ... 1' .. 1 u
23 \TRTh'l'l'Y I . . . . . . . . . . 27 Wea\'erville, •. • ... . .. Trinity, . . . . . . . .
2 .•
41 4 64
" "
8 7 , 6j 31 13 2 .. !
24 CoLCl!BTA, • ••••••• 28 Columbia,. ........ . Tuolumne,. ...... I "'
i
.l
s 1 1 2a
"
" ! 7\ l ' 6, 1 io 4J .. ; ..
25 ·Du~o!m, .. . .... . . 29 :niamond Spring~, . . .. . El Dorado, ..•... I "

OF

JI'. A. M ~: S

~-

A SUi\lMARY OF TllEIR RE'fURNS FOR THE ~IASONJC YEAR ENDING MARCH 4TB7 A. L. 5858.

:. ·--- -

WJTl1

LIST OF LODGES NOW IN EXISTENCE:

-

_"

G •• s
L 0 DL ~ '

4

\

_

~

''

[

1

IY~untville,

.

- . "..

TOW!f

PL i

OF
u ,

I

~

COUNTY

LOCATIOlf.
L
v
4
•• v
•• •

.

\

DATE WHEN \
CHARTER WAS
ORDl:RED
'
•
;

a:
:
;

;" -.,,

co

~

-11

;c~

to

;Ill

"

:
;

:
;

•

:
;

...

.. { r

!'

'!°

flJi

"'
~ ~ g: ~·
i fe rE- fs ~S' .Fo~ i ~ &1 ~
~
l!. ' :
~
~
~
~
; ~s:1 '~ ;~ ;~

Gontin'lted.

lh.J

. "I

3;

3:

1

61.. . .. .·1·.... .

·I

·1

• Lodges marked thus, now extinct.

1,...

•882 786 759!435740148

I

" "I

":

~

~

!"'

~
...

0

"!I

0

...~

"!I

0

l'll

Q

8t:::I

t:::I

~

:0

Q

.._..

......
00
C11
00

~

,.....,

!"

za

l.'11

..,...>i~

to:!

...z

~

z0

rn

l"1

Q

g

I'll

0

>i

~
rn

~

°'

....
19\3,64 248 56412114474 °'
°'

·I·..
···I·.. '.. ..... ·I

I.. ...
I·. .. ... .. ..

1.. . ..
-I ...
1
1--1 .. .. . ...

86 HowAitD,... . . .... . 196 Yreka, . . .. . ......... ·18!8kiyon, . . ... .. ·
8, 1856 10, 9 9 2 3). . . .. .. .. • 2' 4 21 37
87 JEFFERsox, . .•••.• . 97 La Porte, .. . ...•••.•• Sierra, .. . ... . • • •
"
..
5 ' 6 6' 3 91 1 . . . . . . . . . . 4 2 41
88 QUARTZDURG, . . . . . . 98 Hornitas, ....•....... Mariposa,... . . . . . "
"
"
2'1 2 2,· 1 6•... . . . . 1 2 1 l l' 22
89 LA Gru.NGE, . .•... · j 99 La Grange, .•..•.•... Stanislaus, . . . . . . "
"
6 3 .. 3
3 . . . . . . • 4 13 7 32
90>CAMPO SECG,......• 100 Campo Seco, ..•.•. • .. . Calaveras,.. . . . • . •· ""
"
6 7 7j 2 4 . . . . . . . . . . 6 . . . 1 30
91 CL.&1, ............ 1101 Dutch Flat,............. Placer, . . . . . . . . . "
"
"
12 9 71 4 1 1 . . . . 1 . . . 5 3 28
92 MANZAXITA,........ ,102 North San Juan, ...... Nevada,......... "
"
'.; 131 11 11 4 6 1 . . . . . . • 41 3 .. . 41
93 0Rovru,E,.. • . . . . . 103 Oroville, . •....... . ... Butte•.......... • "
•
14 12 9 5 9 2 . . . . . . . 10 7 5 42
94 LEXINGTON, ...•.... 104 Lexington , ........ . .. Los Angeles,.... .
15, "
6 4 3 1 3' .. . I 1 . . 1 . . . ~ 1 25
95 SrsKIYoi;, . . . ..... · \105 He!lley, ........ . ... .. Siskiyou, . . ... . .. "
"
"
3 3 3 . . . 4 ' . . . '. . 1. . . . . . . . 4 1 15
96 ARCATA, ... . . ..... ,106 Um on, .. ... . . ... . .... Humboldt,..... . . Hay
6 5 G . .. 5'. 3'. .. J·· 1 211 2 33
97 MT. JEFFERSON, .. .. 107 Garrote, . ...•.•. . ...• Tuolumne,. .. .... " 14,1857
"
"
3 3 4 4 :1; 1 1 •• • • • • • 2 1 l J 21
98 OWEN, ......•.... 108 Johnson's Bar, . . . ..•. . Siskiyou, .. . . • . . . "
"
"
12
12 12\ 4 13; ... 1.. .. .. . 41 6 l J 38
99 DIBBLE,..•....•. . . 109 Alpha, •.............. Nevada, . . . . . . .
"
"
"
7 6 5, 3 3' . .. ! . .
31 6 3, 23
100 PAJ'ARO,. ... . ...... 1IlO W~tsonville, .•.... .. .. Santa C11Jz,. . . . .. "
..
1 1 2 1 ..
2· 1.. . • • 11 1 ..
21
101 Carco, •....... . . . 1Ill Chico, . . . • . • . . . . . . .. Butte, . . . . .. . . . . "
"
"
9 9 9 8 6; .. . .. , .. • . • 611 4 2 26
102 Smuur, ..... . .... 112 Knight's Ferry,......•. San Joaquin,..... "
"
"
4 3 3 2 l!. . . 1 . . . . . ~ 3 l 11 21
......., 103 EDEN, ............ Il3 San Leandro, .. . ....... Alameda, . . . . . . . "
"
u
7 8 10 9 1',.
j... .. . 34
~ 104 MT. Z1ox, ......... 114 Grizzly Flat, ...... . .. El Dorado, . . • . . . "
" .. I 27 26 26 2 51
'. . . . .I . • 1 SJ 2 . . . 40
._::! 105 ST. MARK'S, . . .... . 115 Fiddletown, . . . . ...... Amador, ... . . .. .
"
9 9 11 7 6 ... 1.. .. .. . 3 s .. . 24
1061Wn.'l>son, ... .. .... 116 Windsor, •••..•..••••• Sierra, ... ... . . . . "
"
"
Ci 9 9 1 4 1... I .. 1.. .. .
3 3 . .. 15
107 1coNconD, ........ . 117 Sacro.~ento, . • ... • .... Sacramento, . . . . . "
13 3 3 9 2, ... ' ..
1. 10 . .. 20
108 VALLECITO,........ 118 Vallecito, .. .. . . ...•.. Calaveras, .. .... )(a7 15, . "
1858!; s 1 4 12 4 .. ·
1 3 19
109 CuNTON, .....••••. ,119 Horsetown_, . . • .... .. . . Shasta, ... : . . . • . . " 13,
"
"
10 9 8 7 14!. . . . . . . . . . 4, 1 2 20
1
110 FIDELITY, .... . .... 120 San Fr~c1reo, . .. . ... ·jSan Francisco, ... "
..
6, 9 101 4 41. .. '.. ... .. . 21 1 1 33
111 IoNrc, ...•. . .. .... 121 Iowa Hill, ............ ,Placer,.......... "
1
"
H
I 9 8 6 10 . .
I. . •• • • •
l j 1 2 25
112 ALAMO, •.... . ..... 122 Alamo, •••••.•..••... Contra Costa,. . . . "
"
i
5
4 2 1 ..... . 1 .. .. .. • 31 1 2 14
113 SoTOYOMr, .. . ..... 123 Healdsburgh, ..•...... ,Sonoma,.. . . . . . . . "
8 5 2 11
11 3 31· 20
114 TABLE ,.loFX!AIN, .• 124 Oroville,·: .. . . . ...... Butte,... . : . ..... ,..
"
"
5 2 1 4 ... . .. 1•• • • • • • ••
3 1 15
115 PRoG~s... . . . . . . . 125 San Francisco, ......•. San Francisco, .. · "
1 1 2i 5 18
1
1~
9j
4
...
\
...
I
••
.
,
..
1
..
.
..
116 LA FAYETTE, ... ... 126 Bodega,..: . . .•..•... ·!Sonoma,. . :. . • . . . u
4 2 3 ... , . .. .. I.. .. . . . . 1 2i 2 13
117 HERMANll, ...• . ... 127 San Franc1SC0, . ...•••. San FrauclllCo,. . . "
" . ~ 111 1 ... , . ..... 1.. 1.... . . ..... 1. . . 11
118 VISALIA, . ....... . . U.D. Visalia,......... . .•. ,Tulare, ...•.. . ..
1
1
5
.. . 6 .... .... [.. ... . .. 5 , 5 28
• FOLSOM, ......•.•. UD. Folsom, •.•..• • .• . •. . . Sacramento, . ••..
61
4 21
11.. 1.. ... 1 ... I.......

I

i

a .. ...

5... 41
60 MoRNING STAR,.... 68 Stockton, ............ San Joaquin,..... May 2, 1855 9 J 5 5 5 2 .. . .. • . .1
5 ... . 36
61 ComNTHIA..,,,. ...... 69 Marysville,. . ......... Yuba,........... ·'
"
"
6 5 7 3 6 1 .• . . 1 .. .
6... 44
62 Ei.'TEltPRISE,....... 70 Yuba City, ... ... .. ... Sutter,......... ... "
"
"
10\ 7 7 5 2 l.. . . 1. ..
5... 27
63 NEBRASKA.,. . . . . . . . 71 Michigan Bar, ........ Sacramento,.. . .. "
"
"
8 8 10 1 5 . .. . . .. ..
2
. 1 35
6'1 E. K. KAi.-i;:,....... 72 Nevada, ... •..• •.. . . . Nevada,.... .. ... "
"
"
6 7 9 8 9 ll.. • . . .
6 7 ... 18
65 Trno,............ 73 Drytown, ............ Amador, . . . . ... . "
"
"
4 2 5 2 8 . . . . . . . 1 .. .
•
.. 1. . . .
• WISCONSIXHrLL,. . . 74 WisconsinHill, .. . .... Placer, ..•....... " 3, "
1 2 2 ... 12 . ........... .
66 MouNTAIN FOREST,. \ ·75 Eureka North, .•..•... Sierra,..........
" 2, "
17 13 12 6 8 ..• .
10 5 31 37
1 3 22
67 BEAR Moui.'TAlN,. . . . 76 Angel's Co.mp, ....... Calaveras,.... ...
"
"
"
2 3 2 . . . 2 •..... · \ 1 .. .
~ 68 PETAT.t.'M.\.,..•••.. · \ 77 Petaluma,.....••. . .. . Sonoma,. .. . ..... " " " 11 12 8 12 • . . 1 . . . . 1 4 56 6 57
28
~ 69 C.u•.lVERAS, ...... . 78 San Andreas,. . ....... Calaveras,..... .. " 4, "
2 1 5 4 1 5 ....... 1.... ..
5 . . . 20
'-' 70 Hnrnm.nT,. .. ..... , 79 Eureka,...... .. ...... iHumboldt,.... .. . July 1
" ... 1 1 1 1 2 · .. · · . ., I. .. I 5 11 26
71 Io;.;.·E......•..... . . j. 80 Ione, ..... . ...... ... . 1Amador, .... . ... May 8, 1856 3 2 3 4 2 · ·. · · .. ! . .... · 1
72 Yow, .. . .. .... .. · I 81 Yolo,..... . .... .. ... · \Yolo,........ .. . . "
"
"
2 3 3 2 3 ... . . .. 1... . . 14 311 21
26
73 MomsTAIN, ........ \ 82 Don Pedro's Bar, ..... Tuolumne,. ...... "
"
"
7 5 4 2 1 ....... I .... ..
74 R1sL><G STAR,..... j 83 Todd's Valley,. .. . .... Placer,... . .. . ... " ·" "
13\ 10 !l 9 8 2 1 . · 1 2 3. 3 21 47
3 31 28
75 VESPER, ......... · l 84 Red Blufls,........... Tehama,..... . ... " 9, "
1 3 3 4 . . . . . • .. . . .. .. ..
5 11 22
76 INIHAN DIGGIXGS,. . 1 85 Indian Diggings,...... El Dorado,...... " 8, "
71 5 4 2 9 1 .. ..... .. .
6 1 37
77 ST. Loms,.... . .... J 86 St. L~ui8, . . . . . . . . . . . . Sierra,. . . . . . . . . . "
"
"
9 8 11 1 15 .. • . . . · 1 l 3
78 N.1.vAL, ........... : 87 Vallejo,.... . .. . ... . .. Solano,.......... "
"
"
8 8 8 3 3. . . .. .. . .. 6 5 21 30
79 Qi;IT~!AX, ......... I 88 Orleans Flat, ...... . .. Nevada, ......... " · "
"
8 \ 10 12 3 13 . . • . . . . 2 S 4 2 44
. 2 28
80 RosE's Rm,. ...... S!l Empire Ranch, ....... Yuba,..... .. . ... "
"
"
4 5 3 1 7 .... . ... .. .. .
3 1 11
• POLAR STAR,. . .• .. I 90 ForksPoorMan'sCreek Plumas,........ . "
"
"
1\. .. 1 .. · \
81 NoRTH Sun, .... . · 91 Hooperville, .. .. .. .... Siskiyou........ . "
"
"
15 10 6 3 6 .. . .. . . ..
8 12 3 32
6 2 35
"
"
82 ACACIA., . . . . . . • . . . 92 Coloma...•..••...... El Dorado, ...... 1 "
7 5 7 3 5 . • • . . . ........
2 2 17
83CAYMt.:S, .......... i 93
.. . . .•.•... INapa, .... . ...... , "
"
"
3 1, 11 31· ·· 1·" .... \ .... ..
84Moi;NTHERMOX, . .. \ 94 ·Elizabethtown, ....... Plumas,.... . ..... ! "
"
"
10 121 13 1 6 . . . . .. 1... 3' 7 6 30
5. .. 27
8.5HExnYCLI.Y,...... ' 95 lSutter Creek,........ .'Amador, ...... .. \ "
"
"
5 31 3. 51 3 1 . .1 .. " " l

0 F

..

.-:.::.:.: - =:. :.:.....:- ~::.:.:-= -- -

List of Lodges, etc. -

456

LIST OF GB.AND OFFICERS.

[May,

1858.]

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

457

GRAND LODGES
IN COM.MUNICATION WITH

GRAND OFFICERS,

·QT~e ~ranb tobgt of Qralifornia.

Eleetc<l alnee the OrganlzaUon oi'. the Grand Lodge oC CallCornla,

In tile United States of America.

APRIL 18TH, A. L. 5850.

GRAND LODGES.
:I.OB<>.

JoN. D. STEVENSON ...... Grand Mll.!ter. SASOHEL WooDS•.. . Jun. Grand Warden.
JOHN A. TuTT •••• •• D'P· Grand Ma3ter. LEVI STOWlllLL• •.....• Grand 'Jlreamrer ·
C.t.LEB FENNER .••. . Sen. Grand Warden. JoHN H. GIHON ....•. . Grand &cretary.
:J.BB:J.••

JOHN A. TuTT •...•••••• . Grand M<JJJter. B. S. OLDI . .. .... . Jun. Grand Warden.
B. D. HnM .. .. .. •• Dep. Grand Master. T. A. THOMAS........ . Grand Treasurer.
E. F. W. ELLIS •• . .. Sen. Grand Warden. LEVI STOWELL• .••.•.. Grand Secreta1'1J.
:J.BB2.

B&NJ. D. HnM ..••• •.••• Grand J[<JJJter. J. R. McCONNELL . . Jun. Grand Warden.
C. M. RADCLIFF .••.• Dep. Grand Master. ADDISON MARTIN ••... . Grand 'Jlreamrer.
A. HOLLUB .•.••••. Sen. Grand Warden. LEVI STOWllLI.* .••.••• Grand Secretary.
::i.BBa.

CHAS. M. R.t.DCUFP .. • .. • Grand Mll.!ter. R. F. KNOTT...... •Jun. Grand Warden.
T. A. THo!ilAs. •••••• Dep. Grand M<JJJter. ADDISON MARTIN ••.••• Grand 'Jlre<JJJUrer.
J. R. CRANDALL . . . . Sen. Grand Warden. LEVI STOWELL• •••••• . Grand &cretary.
:J.BB4.

WM. H. HowARD ••••••• • Grand Jf<JJJter. R. N. Woon• ....• . Jun. Grand Warden.
N. GREEi.'E CuRTIB... Dep. Grand M<JJJter. AnDISOll' MARTIN .... .. Grand 'Jlreamrer.
R. E. CoLE ...•..•• Sen. Grand Warden. LEVI STOWELL• •...... Grand Secretary.
:I.BBB.

WM. H. HOWARD ....... . Grand Mamr. S. A. MERRITT . . .• . Jun. Grand Warden.
T. A. THOMAS .. .... Dep. Grand Master. ADDISON MARTIN . .... . Grand 'Jlreasurer.
J. A. RAYMOND..... Sen. Grand Warden. LEVI STOWELL• ... .. .. Grand Secretary.
::i.BBe.

WM. H. HowARD ..... ... Grand M<JJJter. P. W. RANDLE .. .. . Jun. Grand Warden.
J. A. RAYMOND.. .• . Dep. Grand .M<JJJter. ADDISON ?11.i.RTIN ... •. . Grand 'Jlreaaurer.
LEHUEL LYON .• . ... Sen. Grand Warden. ALEX. G. ABELL ...... . Grand Secretary.

•GRAND SECRETARIES.

RESIDENCE,

OROA.'ilZED.

ALABAMA, •.•••••• DANIEL SAYRE,......... ••• M<lrltg<rmery, ... . June 14, 1821.
ARKANSAS, ..•• •• , THoil!AB D. MERRICK,. •..• • . Vi.tile Rock, •... . Feb. 22, 1832.
CONNECTICUT, ... ELIPHALl!lT G. STORER,. •. . . New Haven,. •. . July 8, 1789.
DELAWARE, ...... WILLIAMS. HAYES,. ....... Wilmingt<lTI,. .. . June 6, 1806.
DIST. COLUMBIA, .GusTAvus A. SCHWARZMAN,. Washington,. ... . Feb. 19, 1811.
FLORIDA,. ........ JOHN B. TAYLOR,. ......... Tallaha3see, .... . July 6, 1830.
GEORGIA,...... . .. SlllRI RosE, ••••••...• ... . Mac<lrl, ••••. •• . Dec. 16, 1786.
IL LINOIS,.......... HARMON G. REYNOLDS, .••.• Kno:r:vilk, .. ...• April 6, 1840.
INDIANA,. .•....•. FRANCIS KING, . . .......•. . Indianapolis, ... . Jan. 12, 1818.
IOWA,............. THEO. S. PARVIN, .. ........ Muscatine, •. .... Jan.
8, 184(.
KANSAS, ........... CHARI,ES MUNDEE, .•••••••.• Ft. Leavenworth,.March 17, 1856.
KENTUCKY, ••...•• JouN M. S. McCoRKLE,. ... . G?·eensburg,.... . Oct. 13, 1800.
LOUISIANA, .... .. SAMUEL G. RIS:s:, ...... . .. . New Orleam, .. . July 11, 1812.
MAINE,... ..... . ... IRA BERRY,•••••••.•..... . P!lrtland,. ..... . June 1, 1820.
MARYLAND,. ..... JOSEPH ROBINSON, ........ . BaltifMT'e, ... .. . April 17, 1787.
MASSACHUSETTS,.CHARLEB W. MooRE, .••..• . Bottoo, •.... .. . April 30, 1733.
MICHIGAN,. .•..... JAMKS FENTON,. .. .... .. •• . Detroit, .. ...... June 28, 1826.
MINNESOTA,. •.•.• GEORGE W. PRESCOTT,. •.. •Saint Paul,. .•. . Feb. 23, 1853.
MISSISSIPPI,....... R. W. T. DANIEL,...... ... . JacJaon, . . .... . July 27, 1818.
MISSOURI, ......... A. O'SULLIVAN, ••.••.•... . St. Louil!,. .••. . April 23, 1821.
NEBRASKA, .. ..... GEORGE ARMSTRONG•..•• • .• Omaha Oity, •. .. Sept. 23, 1857.
NEW HAMPSHIRE, HoRACE CHASE,. ... ...... . Hopkinl<lrl,. ... .. July 8, 1789.
NEW JERSEY, .. ... JOSEPH H. HOUGH, . .... . .. 1'renton....... . Dec. 18, 1786.
NEW YORK, .... ... JAM'.ES M. AUSTIN,. ....... . New YO'l'k, •... . Sept. 6, 1781.
N. CAROLINA,. •••. WILLIAM T• .BAIN,. ..•.••. •Raleigh, . • •• .. . Jan. 14, 1771.
OHIO,. ............ JOHN D. CALDWELL,....... . Oincinnati,..... . Jan. 7, 1808.
OREGON,.......... WM. S. CnnwELL,........ . HilubO'l'o, ...... . Sept. 16, 1851.
PENNSYLVANIA,.. WILLI.L'\l H. AnAM8,. ..... . Phil.addphia.,. .. . June 20, 1764.
RHODE ISLAND, .. WILLIAM C. BARBER,. ••••. • Providence, .... . June 25, 1791.
S. CAROLINA, ..... ALBERT G. MACKEY,. .... .. Oharlaton,. .. . . March24, 1787.
TENNESSEE, •••... CHARLES A. FuLLER, ...... Nashville, ...•.. Oct. 14, 1794.
TEXAS,. ....... ... . A. S. Rl"'J'UVEN, ......... .. Galvulml, •.... . Dec. 20, 1837.
VERMONT,. . ... ... JOHN B. lloLLENBEOK,..... . Burlingt.<m,. .. .. Oct. 14, 1794.
VIRGINIA, ......... JouN DovE,.............. . Richm<lrld,. .. .. . May 6, 1777.
WISCONSIN, ...... •WILLliM R. SMITH, .... ••• . Mineral Point, .. Dec. 18, 1843.

:J.BB'7.

N. GREEN!! CURTIS .•..• •. Grand M<JJJter. J.B. BoPE ....... . Jun. Grand Warden.
CHARLES MARsH • . •. Dep. Grand Mll.!ter. ADDISON MARTIN .• .. .. Grand 'Jlreasurer.
A. D. PARK ... •. .. . Sen. Grand Warden. ALEx. G. ABELL .•... . Grand &cretary.
:I.BBB.

N. GRl!lENE CURTIS ... , .. •GrandMa3ter. J. W. BIOKNELL .. . . Jun. Grand Warden.
P. W. -SHEPHEARD.. . . Dep. GrandMaster. ADDISON M.&..aTIN • . .... Grand 'JlreMUrer.
w. McCoRM:ICK. •... Sen. Grand Warden. ALEX. G. ABELL .....•. Grand s~rttary.

Foreign Grand Bodies.
GRAND ORIENT OF FRANCE, . .....•.•..• P. CuunE, . ..•••. . . Paria.
GRAND LODGE OF SCOTLAND, .. . • ..• •. . W.M.ALEx'R LAURIE,.»linburg.
GRAND LODGE OF GERMANY,. .. .. . .... . KARL En'n Mil'OHE,.Berlin.
GRAND ORIENT OF BELGIUM,. . ......... L. THEREMIN, ..... . . Bruuels.
GR. LODGE OF THREE GLOBES, PRUSSIA,JAc. Run. MERTEN,. • . Berlin.
GRAND ORIENT OF PERU, .... .. ........ RAYHO. R.MORALEB, .lii.ma.
PROV. GRAND LODGE OF VICTORIA,_,... Jos. W. TORREY,.. .. . Melbourm.
GRAND LODGE OF CANADA,. ............ THos. B. fuRRis, . .. . HamiUon.
• 'Prllpared n,om the !&test Intelligence received.

[236]

[237]

INDEX.

459

INDEX.
A

PAOZ,
.AccoUNTS OF LoDGEs-Be.le.nces of, June IO, IB.57, Me.y 31, I858, .......... ,130, 357
ADDRESS.Es-Of the Grand Master-Reports of Committees on,........ 9, 24, 230, 247
ALAMO LODGE, No. I22--Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, ............. 237, 316
ALLA.If, D. N .-Relative to expnlsion, e.nd petition of,. ...............29, 121, 310, 342
AMADOR LODGE, No. GO-Relative to expulsion of Jacob Tiehl by,............29, 12I
AMENDMENTS-To the Constitution-Action upon, •••••••••• 981 IOI, I31, 252, 3101 33I
To the Regulations for Trials, ................ 117, I3I, 3I8, 327, 337, 347
To the Standing Resolutions, ..................... 118, IM, 327, 337, 346
Arr EA LS - Of D. N. Allen, \Vm. Hook, L. G. Lyon, and J, McD. Ross, ..... •• ,,,29
Of H. Rogers, and Edward Crowe, •.• •••••• •••••• •••••••••••••• .34, 98
Of W. Reynolds, C. B. Uhl, B. }<', Fisk, J. N. Hume, A.H. ltose1 249,200
Of D. He.rdy, H. Blair, P. Bross,J. A. Shubert, J, R. Atkins,, •• ,3I2, 334
APPOINTME!ITR-Of CommitteeS--See "Committees Appointed.''
Of Grand Officers, May, 1857, May, 1858, ............. ., ....... 1211, 345
APl'ROl'RIATIONS-Reported by the Committee on Fine.nee e.nd Accounts,, ... 116, 300
For sundry purposes by resolution, 116, 117, 314, 323, 331, 338, 339,349, 300
ARCATA LonaE, No.106-Chartcr ordered for, ••• •••••• • •••••••••• •••••••••••••102
ATKINS,J, R.-Appeal of-Report of Committee on, ........................3341 343

B
BALANCES-Of accounts of Lodges, June 10, 1857, Moy 31, 1858, ............ 130, 357
11EAR MouNTAIN LoDGI:, No. 76--Case of P. A. Willie.ms remanded to1. . . . . .249, 317
BIVJ:N, RASEY-Resolution to restore-Action upon, ........................319, 320
BLAIR, HENRY-Case of remanded to Nebraska Lodge, No. 71 1 . . . . . . . . . . . ,.3341 355
BOARD OF RELIEF-Of s. Fre.~.-Rele.tive to-Reports of, &c., 20, 30, 106, 234,244, 249
BowllEN, J. A.-Relative to expulsion of, ...............................29, a1, 347
BRAINERD, C. F.-Expulsion of--Report of Committee on, ........ •••••• ....249, 317
BRANIUN, SAM 1J,-Certe.in resolutions respecting, rescinded, ..................... 103
BRoss, PF.TF.R-Case of remanded to Nebraska .Lodge, No. 71, .............. 334, 355
BY·L.\WS OF LoDGEs-Reports of Committees on, .......................... 120, 335
Pnrt of Report of Committee on in 1857 rescinded,..,. ..... ., ....... 337
HY-LAWS oJo· the GRAND Lon.GE-Ke.printed, ••••.•.••..••••••••••••••••••• ,~ ••• 365

c
CALil'ORNIA LoDGI':, No. I-Trials of 0. J.Prcston andC. F.Braioerd by,249,317,318
CANADA, GRAND LoDGr: OF-Resolution to recognize adopted, ....................319
CAYMUS LODGE, No. 93-Relative to suspension end expulsion of Master of, 11 1 29, 107
CERTIFICATES OF GOOD STANDING-To be issued to members of extinct.Lodges, 322, 337
CHARTERS-Lists or issued to new Lodges, ................................ 1:29, 356
CH1co LoDG}; 1 No. 111-Dispeniation issued-Charter ordered,. ..............21, 102
CLAIBORNJ:, Ju. W.-Gre.nd Ore.tor-Letter from presented, .................... 251
CLARK, CHARLEs-Expul1ion of-Report of Committee on,. ................249, 316
CI.AV LoDGF. 1 No. 101-Case of J. A. Shubert-Restoration of, ..............334., 341

460

INDEX.

CLEMENTE AKITIE-Lodge in Paris--Communication from,."' ..... •• ••232, 328, 3511
CLINTON LoDGE, No. 119-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, ............ 237, 316
CoxMITTEES APPOINTED-STANDING-On Credentials,................ , ..... 6, 226
On Grievances-On Unfinished Business-On Fin. and Accounts, ••!!3, 248
On Disp's and Charters--On Work-On Mas. Jurisprudence, 23, 248, 249
On Education-On By-Laws of Lodges--On Returns of Lodges, 23, 24, 249
On Foreign Correspondence, .................................. 129, 356
SPECIAL-On Addresses of the Grand Master, ••••••••••••••••!21 235
On affairs of San Francisco Lodge, No. 7, ...........................24
On subject of "Side Degrees," ........................... • • • ...... 101
On communication from Iowa Hill Lodge,No.63,relative toJ. T.Hill, 113
On appeal of A.H. Rose from action of Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95, .. 250
On communication from the Grand Orient of France, ................251
On communication from the Lodge Clemente Amitie, ·in Paris, •••••••• 251
On communication from the G. L. of Va. relative to Mount Vernon, •••• 251
On suspension of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49 1 and of Joseph Mayer, ..... 251
On memorial of William Grove Deal, ••••••• ,, .....................21i2
On resolution to re•tore Rasey Biven, (to report in 1859,) ............ 320
On report of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall Fund, ............... ,325
On affairs of the Washington Monument Committee, ................. 332
On appeal of J. R. Atkins from action of Sacramento Lodge, No. 40, • •334
On report of contributions for Past Grand Master Howard, ••• ,.•• •••• 341
On position of Masons stricken from the roll of membership, •••••••••• 3.53
On revision of the Constitution, &c., (to report in 185~,) ............ ,.356
COMMITTEES REPORTED-STANDING-See names of Committees.
SPECIAL-On Addresses of the Grand Master, ................ 24., 247
On revision of the Constitution, (appointed in 1856,) ........... 33, 34, 132
On subject of" Side Degrees," .................................... 111
On affairs of San l<'rancisco Lodge, No. 7 1. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .112
On revision of lhe Work and Ritual, (appointed in 1P561) . . . . . . . . . . . . 116
On communication from Iowa Hill Lodge, No.63,relative to J, T. Hill, 127
On donation of land by A.M. Winn, (appointed in IBM,) ............. 128
On suspension of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49, and of Joseph Mayer, 321, 339
On appeal of A. H. Rose from action of Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95, •• 327
On communication from the Lodge Clemente Amitie,iu Parii, ........ 328
On communication from the Grand Orient of France, ••••.••••••••••• 329
On memorial of William Grove Deal,...................... 330, 335, 350
On report of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall Fund, •••• , ••••••••••• 34.2
On communication from the G. L. of Va. relative to Mount Vernon, .... 343
On appeal of J. H.. Atkins from action of Sacramento Lodge, No. 40,.343
On report of contributions for Past Graud Master Howard, ........... 344
On affairs of the Washington Monumeut Committee, ................. 354
On position of Masons stricken from the roll of membership,.,.,,, •• , ,35.5
CONCORD LoDGE, No. 117-Petition for Charter-Charter ordered, ............ 101, 104
Relative to complaint against by Washington Lodge, No. 20,.:3101 3261 337
CoNSTITt!TIOlf-Proposed amendments to.-..Action upon, ... , .98, 101 1 131, !!521 3101 331
Pro.posed new one reported by Committee-Action upon, ..34, 132, 252 1 310
Present one ordered to be reprinted-Reprinted, ••••••••••••••••• 339, 35!)
CooP:&R, JoHN E.-Relative to membership of, ..................... , .... 323, 3261 336
CooK,J. M. S.-Case of remanded to Howard Lodge, No. 96, ................ 2491 316
CREDENTIALS-Reports of Committees on, ••• 61 221 97, 103, 226, 2461 311, 319, 324, 335
CROWE, EDWARD-CRse of remanded to Minnesota Lodge, No. f!l, •.......... 981 121

INDEX.

461

D
Du.11: 1 RtcHA:ttn-Resolutions of thanks to for use ·or organ,.. ................ 125, 340
DEAL, WM. GR.OVE-Memorial of-Action upon,., • ., ... , ... , ...... 202, 330, 335, 350
DEMITs-Reqmred to be filed in certain cases, ..........................338, 341, 34.G
DIAMOND LoDGE, No. 29-Relative to expulsion of Philip Strelitz by, •••••• ,,. .~9 1 121
DIBBLE LODGE, No. 109-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, .............. 21, 102
lJJPLOMAs-For Past Masters, ordered to be prepared, ............... .,, ..... , ...349
DtsPENSATloNs-Lists of to open 11ew Lodges, ...... , .......................21 1 237
DISPENSATIONS AND CHARTERS-Reports of Committees on, ....... 101, 104, 315, 322

E
ED.r:N LoDGE 1 No. 113-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, ... , ............21, 102
EDUCATION-Reports of Committees on, ................. , ........ , ......... 127 335
E. K . KAN.£ LoDGE, No. 7'2,-New Charter ordered for, ....................... ,: 104
EL Do RADO Lo DOE, No. 26-Relative to case of Wm. Johnson, ..............251, 312
f<~LECT !ON-Of Grand Officers-Of Trustees of Masonic Hall Fund, •• 1091 1101 3321 333
EMERY, J, P.-Case of-Remanded to Howard Lodge, No. 96.......... , .....249 1 316
EXPULSIONS AND SuSPENSIONs-Lists of, published, ........................218, 4.51

F
l<'mELITl' LoDGE, No. 120-Disjlensation issued-Charter ordered, •• ,,, .. ,,, .237, 316
Relative to donation of certain funds of Lehanon Lodge to,.,,,,, .3341 338
1

l 'IHANCE AND ACCOUNTS-Reports of Committees on,.••• ••••••••·• •••••• •••••••••••

Ou petitions of Petaluma and Nebr11Ska Lodges,.... ............. 1061 106
On petitions of Hawaiian and Parfaite Union Lodges, .. ., .. , ... ,.114 315
On communications from Mas. Board of Relief, and Robert Morris, •• .'.10G
On Annual Reports of the Grand Sec. and Grand Treas. 1 114, 115,31!!, 314
On appropriations-On supplemental reports of Grand Sec.,1161 1~ 1 350, 354
On resolution to remit dues of Michigan City f.odge,, ................ 318
On affairs of Iowa Hill and Wisconsin Hill l:odges, .............. . ... 328
On certain donations to Fidelity and Ionic Lodges, ....... ,., .... 338, 339
l<'1sx 1 D. l<'.-Case of remanded to Humboldt Lodge, No. 79, ................. 2501 317
For.soM LODGE, U. D.-Dispensation issued-Continued,., ......... , ......... 21 1 102
Relative to surrender of Dispensation of, ... ,,..,.,,.,,, .. .".234, 2371 250
FoRl.:tGN CoRRESPOl'IDENCE-Reports of Committees on, . ............... ,341 JOO, 253
FRANCE1 GRAND ORIENT OF-Relative to certain correspondence with, , , , , , ,2321 329
FRANKLIN Lon GE-Relative to Dispensation asked for-Refused, .........29, 1041 107

G
0ARDl'IER 1 J. 1\1.-Expulsion of-Report of Committee 011 1 , , , , •••• , • • , , , , , , , , ,291 121
GitNF.RAL GRAND LODGE-Report of Committee on subject of, .... .,., ... . ...... 321
GOLDEN GATE LODGE, No. 30-Relative to expulsion of Chas. Clark b,v, ..... 249, 311;
GoLD Ht LL LoDGE 1 No. 32-0rdered to send transcript in case of P. Howell, ••••• 347
GRAHAM, JOHN s.-Received as Rep. of Prov. G. L. of New South \'Vales, .......251
GRAND LIBRARIAN-Report of, ............................ . ................. 241
GRAND LoDGEs-Lists of in correspondence with, ........................ 220, 457
GRAND MASTER-Annual Addresses of-Reports of Committees 011, •••• 9, 24, 23()1 247
Resolutions in regard to performance of duties of, .... .. ......... 109, 351i
GRAND OFFICERS-Elections of-Appointments of, ............ 109, 110, 128, 333, 34.'i
Lists of elected since organization of the Grand Lodge, ..........219, 456
GRAND ORI.ENT OF FnANCJ:-Relative to correspondence with, ••••.•••••••• !32, 329

31

462

INDEX.

INl>EX.

GRAND ORaNT oF PERU-Relative to outlawry of certain Lodges by,. ..... 2$2, !MS
GRAND SECRETARY-Annual Reports of-Reports of Committees on, •• 25, 114, 236, 312
Supplemental Reports of-Reports of Committees on,. •• 1221 1251 351 1 354
On contributions for P.G.M. Howard-Report of Committee on, 340, 344
GRAND TREASURER-Annual Reports of-Reports of Committees on,.27, 115, 240, 314
GRIEVA.NCJ;s-RP.port& of Committees on,.••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

Confirming expulsion of\Villiam Hook, .............................. 9!)
Remanding case of L. G. Lyon, for new trial, ••••••••••• , ............ 99
Approving suspensioa a11d confirming expulsion of J. J. May,.•••• •••• 107
Relative to certain difficulties in Rose's liar Lodge, No. 89, •••••••••• 107
Recommending issue of new Charter to Naval Lodge, No. 87, ......... 1011
lteversing action of Tuolumne Lodge, No. 8, in case of J. l\JcO. Ross,.108
Relative to charges against J. K. Shafer, ••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 111
Relative to an appeal from certain action of Ophir Lodge, No. 33, ••••• 112
Recommending restoration of Edward Crowe, ••••••••••••••••••••• • .121
Confirming expulsions ofD. N. Allan, J.M. Gardner, and P. Strelitz, •• 121
Confirming expulsions of J. A. Bowden, J. Tiehl, and Wm. 'l'ekusch, •• 121
Relative to jurisdiction of Iowa Hill and Illinois town Lodges ••••••• •• .127
Confirming expulsion of Charles Clark ••••••••••••••••••••••• •••• .. 316
Remanding cases of J.P. Emery and J.M. S. Cook for new trial, ..... 316
Remanding cases of Peter A. Williams and B. F. Fisk for new trial, ••• 317
Confirming e:rpuls. ofC. F. llrainerd Rud suspens. of-0.J. Preston,.317, 318
Confirming suspension of D. Hardy, ............ , •••• , .......... •• .331
Relative to the Washington Mom1ment Committee, •••••••••••••• ••• .331
Recommending restoration of J. A. Shubert,. ....................... 341
Recommending new trial of D. N. Allan, ........................... 342
Remanding case of Charles ll. Uhl for new trial, ••••••••••••••••• •• .342
Relative to delinquency of Plumas Lodge, No. 60, ............... • •• 344
Requiring transcripts in all cases, and amending Regulations for Trials, ~J.7
Relative to cases of A. B. Hayward and G. A. Wilson, •••••••••• •.• .355
Remanding cases of Peter Bross and Heury Blair for new trial, •••••• 355

HARDY, D.-Suspension of-Report of Committee on, ••••• ••••••••••••••250, 312, 331
HAWAIIAN LODGE, No. 21-Remission of dues of, .................. !!), IM, 310, 315
Difficulties of with Lodge Le Progres de l'Occanie, •••••• 19, 100, 118, 2~l3
Relative to appointment of Dist. Dep. Grand Master for, •• 100, 252, 311, 3:!0
Authorization for certain publications by, confirmed, ................. ,320
HAYWARD, A. B.-Suspension of-Report of Committee on, ................ 349, 355
HE!IRY CLAY LODGE, No. 95-Appeal of A. IJ. Rose from act_ion of, ........ 250, 327
HERMANN LoDGK, No. 127-Dispcnsation issued-Charter ordered,. ••••••••• 237, 3Hi
HILL, J. T.-Proceediugs of Iowa Hill Lodge in his case approved,...... ••• .113, 127
HIRAM LoDGE, No. 43--Relative to expulsion of J. A. Howden by, ............ 29, 121
HooK, \Va1.-Expulsion of-Report of Committee on, •••••• ••••••• ••• • ••• ••··• .29, 99
How ARD LoqGE 1 No. !l6-CnsesofJ. P. EmeryanclJ,l\J. S. Cook remanded to,249, 31G
Ho WARD, Wni. H.-Relative to testimonial and contributions for, •••• 124, 340, 344,, 353
How ELL PHILIP-Transcript in case of ordered from Gold Hill Lodge, ••• •••••• .347
Hunino1.~T LoDGE, No. 79-Relative to change of location of,, •••••••••••••• 234, 320
Case ofB. F. Fisk remanded to for new trial, .................... 250, 317
Hum:, J. N.-Appeal of in case of B. F. Fisk-Report of Committee on, •••••• 250, 317
HUNT, CHA nr.:tr.s-Case of to be inquired into by Petaluma Lodge, No. 77, ••••• • ... 341

46R

I
INsT ALLAT1011-0f the Officers of the Grand Lodge, •••••••••••••••••••••••• 128, 345
loNK LoDoE, No. 8().....Case of L. G. Lyon remanded to, ....................... 29 1 99
Asking permission to re-ballot-Report of Committee on, .......... 30, 104
loN1c LoDGE 1 No. 121-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered,. •••••••••••••• 237, 316
Donation of certain funds oflowa Hill and Wisconsin Hill Lodges to,331, 339
low A HILL LoDGE 1 No. 63--Relative to expulsion of D. N. Allan by,.29 1 121,310, 342
Relative to jurisdiclion of-Report of Committee on, ............. 105, 127
Relative to case of J. T. Hill-Report of Committee on, •••••••••• 113, 127
Relative to surrender of Charter and dissollltion of.•••••• 234, 236, 250, 328

J
:ToHNSOll, W~r.-Relative to change of name of-Report of Committee on, ..... 251 1 312

K
KELr.v, Tr.RE1<n:-Transcript in case of ordered from San Francisco Lodge, •• 113, 347

L
LA FAYETTE LoDGK, No. 126-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, •••••••• 237, 316
LA SALI,K, CHAs.-Transcript in ca~c of ordered from Rising Star Lodge,......... 347
LKBANO!i LODGE, No. 49-Arrest of Char. of-Char. revoked, ••• !31, 236, 310, 321, 322
Suspension and expulsion of Joseph Mayer, a member of, .... 231, 310, 340
LKXING'roN LODGE, No. 104-Cns~ of W. W. Reubottom, a member of, .......... 323
Relative to suspension of A. B. Hayward by, ••••••••••••••••••• 349, 355
LIBRAHY-Ofthe Grand Lodg-Report relative to, •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 241
LonoEs-Dispensations issued to-Charters ordered for,21, IOI, 104, 12!), 237, 316, 3!2, 35(i
Complete returns of-Statistical returns of, ••••••••••••• 1151, 214, 375, 452
I.os ANGEI,ES LoDGE,
42-Relative to case of W. W. Reubollom, •••••••••••• 323
~LOUISIANA RELi El' LO DOE-Resolution to refund $75 to, ........................ 323
Lvo!i 1 l.. G.-Case of remanded to Ione Lodge, No. 80, ....................... 29, 99

No.

~
MAINE, GRAND LoDGE OF-Communication from-Report ofCommiLlec on, •••• 233, 321
MARTINEZ LoDGE 1 No. 41-Relative to expulsion of Wm. Hook by,............ 29, !)9
MASONIC BOARD oi· REI,IEF-Relative to-Reports of, ••••••• 20, 30, 106, 234, 244, 24!!
~1AsoN1c J{Ar,r, Fu No-Election of Trustees of-Report of, •••••••••• 110, 324, 333, 342
l\IAsoN•c Jun1srRun:i;Nc):-Reports of Committees on, ............................ .
On petitions of Occidental, loue and Quitman Lodges, •••••••• 9!l, 104, 105
Amending Regulations for Trials,....................... , .. 117, 327, 337
Relative to the qualifications of Masters of Lodges, ................... llfl
Relative to Masons made abroad, and jurisdiction of Lodges, ••••••••• ll!l
Relative to Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21, & Lodge Le Progres de l'Oceanic,118
Relative to change of name of Wm. Johnson, of El Dorado Lodge, .... 312
On petition of Hawaiian Lodge for appointment of n D. D. G. M., ••••• 320
On r.orrespoud.ince with Hawaiian L., relative to certain publications ••• 320
On the removal of Humboldt Lodge to Eureka, •• , ................... 320
On communication from the Grand Lodge of Maine, ••••••., •• , ••.•••• 321
Relative to dispensations for conferring degrees and reballoiing, ••• ,: •• 325
Recommending revision of the Standing Resolutions,,., ••• , ••••• , ••• 325
On memorial of Rough and Ready Lodge, case of J, E. Cooper, •• 326, 336
On differences between Washington and Concord Lodg11s, ••••••• 326, 337
l~elativr. to Standing Resolutions, Nqs. 3, 34, and 22 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . 346, 3•17
Requiring demits to be filed upon affiliation,...... ,., .......... , ...... 346
Relative to Masons stricken from tbe rolls of membership,............. 353

464

INDEX.

INDEX.

MAURICE, A. Jr.-Communication resper.ting--ReportofCommittee 011 1. . . . . . . . W, JOO
MAY, JoHPH-Transcript in case ordered from Mt. Moriah Lodge, ...........3321 347
MAY, J. J.-Suspension end expulsion of-Report of Committee on, .......... ;.291 J<Y7
llfAYER 1 JosEPH-ltelative to suspension and expulsion of, ••••••••• , . , ••• 310, 3391 34-0
McKE1'1fA 1 PHILIP-Transcript in case of ordered from Summit Lodge,. ••••••••• ,347
MEMO RIA Ls-From Quitman Lodge, No. 88-Report of Committee on, ••• , •••• 30, 105
From certain brethren of Marysville-Report of Committee on, •••• 34, 105
From Hawaiian Lodge, No . 21-Report of Committee on, •••••••• 100, 118
From Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63-Report of Committee on, •••••••• 105, 127
Of Wm. Grove Deal-Sundry action upon, .•••••••••••• 252, :!30, 335, 350
From Rough and Ready Lodge, relative to J.E. Coope·r, •••• 323, 326, 336
From Rose's Bar Lodge, to chaDge location of-Action upon,. •••••••• 323
MICHIGAN CITY l .oDGE,No. 47-Remittingdues and amending By•Laws of, 31!1 318, 336
MrNNESOTA LoDG'f. 1 No. 67-Restoration of E. Crowe, a member of, .......... 98 1 121
Relative to suspension of G. A . Wilson by,. ....................250, 355
Relative to complaint against by Roufh and Ready Lodge, 323, 3261 336
MOORE, M. 111.-Contribution taken up for in Grand Lodge, ...................... 332
llfoRRIS, Ro BERT-Communication from-Report of Committee on,. •• ,,., ••••• 29, 100
MouNT.UN FoREST LoDGE, No. 75-Relative to suspension of D. Hardy, 2501 312, 331
MouNTAIN SHADl: LoDGF., No. 18-Relative to expulsion of J. lit Gardner by,.291 121
Mou:n HERMON LODGE, No. 94-Relative to children of Masons under care of,. •••• 29
MouNT Ju·F1msoN· Lol;IGE, No. 107-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, ••• 21, 102
Mou NT MoRIAH LoDGl:, No. 4+-.0rdered to send transcript in case ofJos.May,33!, 34.7
Mou NT VERNON-Communication from Grand Lodge of Va. respecting, . ...... 2.'l3, 34.'>
.Mou:n Z1o!f J.onor., No. 114-Dispensation issued-ChRrter ordered, ......... 21, 102

PF.T1T1011s-Of Ione Lodge, No. 801 for permission to re-ballot, ................30, 104
Of Naval Lodge, No. 87, for alteration of Charter, ••• , ..... ,., •••• 34, 100
Of Nebraska Lodge, No. 71 1 for remission of dues, ................ 34, 106
Of Hawaiian Lodge, No. 21 1 for appt. of D. D. G. Master, 100,2521 311, 320
Of Petaluma Lodge, No. 77, for remission of dues, ••••••••••••••• 101 1 lo.5
For Charter of Lodge to be called Concord Lodge, .. , ........... 101, 104
From Suisun Lodge, No. 55, relative to a Mason's daughter, ...... 102, 127
Of Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 171 for remission of dues,.••••• , ... 1101 114
For new Lodge at Nicolaus-Report of Committee on, .. .........252, 322
Of Hawaiian Lodge for remission of dues-Report of Committee on,310, 315
Of D. N. Allan to be restored-Report of Committee on,. ........ 310, 34~
PLy!u.s Lt>DOE, No. @-Relative to cxpul•ion of Geo. W. Sharp by, . ..... ,. ,3371 344
PoLAll STAR LoDGx, No. !JO-Surrender ofCharterof,...... ..................... 349
PowELL, Ju. W .-Rep: in G . L. of New York-Letter from presented, .. ...... 18, 251
PREsTON 1 0. J.-Suspension of-Report of Committee on, •••••• , ... , ... , •••• 249, 31S
J>aoORESS LODGT. 1 No. 125-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, .......... 2.'J7, 316

NATOMA LoDGE, No. 64--Relative to rhange of location of, ..... , .... ,, .......... 234
NAVAL LoDGE 1 No. 87-Petition of for new Charter---Report of Committee on,.34, 108
NEBRASKA LODGE 1 No. 71-Pelition of for remission of dues-Report on, •••••• 34, 106
Ca&es of Henry Blair and Peter Bross remanded to, .............. 3341 355
NEW CoNBTITUTION-Reported by Committee···Recommitted, •••••••• 331 341 13!!, 310
NEW SouTH WALES, PRov. GRAND J.onGE OF-Representative of received, ••••• 251
NrcoLAUS LovoE, U. D.-Petition for-Dispensation ordered, ...............2621 322
Permission gfren to change place of meeting, ... ......... . ••• ....... 337

0
OcclDl:llTA.1. l.oUGlt 1 No. 22-Petition from-Report of Committee on,.... •• •••• 28 1 !J'J
OL!llSTEAD, W. B.-Transcript in case of ordered from Trinity Lodge, •••••••••••• 347
OrmaILoDGE, No. 33-Appeal from action of-Report of Committee on, • ••••• 34, 112
Owt:N LonGi:, No. JOB-Dispensation iss.u ed-Charter ordered, ................21, 102
Amendment lo By· Laws of confirmed,. ................. . ........... 336

p
p .1.J Ano Lo1H.a:, No. 110-Dispensatlon issued-Charter ordered, •••••.•••••••• ~J 1 111!

PAR>'AI't'}; UNroN J.oDG&, No.17-Petition offor remission of dues-Report 011, 110, 114
PAY oF R1tPRESENTAT1vxs-Subject of referred to a Committee,. ............ . ...341
PERU, GRAND ORIENT oF-Relative to outlawry of certain Lodges by, ••••••• 232, 248
PF.TA LUMA LODGE, No. 77-Petition of for remission of dues-Report on, ..... 101, 105
Directed to inquire into case of Chas. Hunt, a member of,,•••··· .. • • .. 341
P1:T1T10Ns-From Occidental Lodge-for dispensation to ballot, ............ • ....28 1 99
For Dispensation for Lodge to be called VallecitoLodge, .......... 29 1 104
For Dispensation for Lodge to be called Franklin Lodge,•.•• .29, 104, 107

465

Q
Qu1TMA N Lonoi:, No. 88-Memorial from-Report of Committea on, ••• , •••• , .30, 105

R
Ri:c&n•Ts-8tatements of by Grand Ser.retary, Juno 101 1857, May 31, 18501. , .129, 357
ltii:coans-Of Loi!ges U. D.-Relativ~ to, •• , ............. ,., ••••• , •• •• 101, 2501 3 16
lb:ou1.ATIONS f'OI< 1'RIALS-Amentl'ts to--Reprinted,.J 17, 131, 318, 327, 337, 347, 367
ltF.PORTs--OfCommitlecs-See "Committees Reported 111 , • • • • • ; , . '. . . . . . . . . , •
Of the Grand ltlocretRry and Grand Treasurer, annual,.•••• 2b1 '!71 236 1 240
Supplemental, of the Grand Secretary, .••• , •• •••• , •••• , ..... ,.,. J22, 3.'il
Of the Grand Librarian-Of contributions for P.a.M. Howard, •••• !!41 1 340
Of the Masonic Board of Relief of San Franci1co,... , .. , •••• ,,.,. ,30, 24i
Of the Trustees of the Masonic Hall Fund, .• , • .,, .... , .. , .... , • , , • ••• 324
Rt:PRESJ:NTATIVE-fo Grand Lodge of New York, relative to,, ....... ,, •••• , ]81 251
Relative to interchange of with Grand Orient of France, ••• ,,, ••• 232, 329
•
,..rom the Prov. Grand Lodge of New South Wales, received, ........ 251
REPUBLIC.6.TI011-0fformer proreedings rcrommcnded to tho Lodges, ............ 117
REsOLUTlONs-Confirming expulsion of Wm. Hook by Martinez Lodge, No, 41 1 • • • :99
Reversing the action oflone Lodge, No. 63, in ~ue of L. G. Lyon,.•••• !)9
Granting Charters to sundry new Lodges, •• •• , .,.,,., •••• •• ,,.,, 10!1 316
'l'o continue Dispensation to Folsom Lodge, .,, •••.•• ,, .•••• ,.,,,.,, .102
Rescinding certain resolutions re lative to S amuel Brannan, ... , ....... 103
To issue Charter to Conrord Lodge, •••• , ........ ,, ....... , ••••••• , J 04
'l'o issne tiew Charter lo E. K. K ane J.odge, No. 72,. .. , ........ , .... !04
ltemitting dues of Petaluma 1..odg·c, No. 77 1 for HlliG,. .. , •• • , , •••• , , • , )(Jfi
Branting time to '.'iebraska Lodge, No. 71, for payment ot' dues,. , •.• ,. !Of.
H ecomme~1di11g "I niversal l\Jasonic J.ibrnry 11 to the Lodge.~, .. ,., ••• Jot;
.\prrm·ing ~ll•)l<!ll,.;,.11 a11d e;>pulsiou of J. J . May, .................. . 107
To i~sne 11ew Chart<· " J Naval Lodge, No. Si, ....... , ... , .. ,., ... ,. JUH
Rcl'ersing the action of Tuolumne Lodge, No. B, in cai;e of J, l\IcD. Itoss, 10::;
R~.lative lo charge against J. K. Shafer, ••• • •••••• . ....... , •••• 111, 113
Relative to difficulties in Ophir Lodge, No. 33, ••••••••• , ............ 112
Restoring Charter to San Francisco Lodge, No. 7 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . IJ3
Referring Regulations for Trials to committee for revision, ............ 114
Granting time to Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 171 for payment of dues, •• 111
Remitting dues of Hawaiian Lodge, No. !!l, .............. , .......... 114

j.
466

tN1>EX.

INDEX.

R1tsoLUT10Ns-To subscribe for two copiet of"Univer!lal lllasonic Library,''. ..... ll6
Recommending the" Republication" prepared by the Grand Secretary, 117
To bind three hundred copies of the Proceedings of 1855 and 185G, • •• _.117
Amending the 49th and 50th Standing Resolutions,•••••• ••••••••• 124, 118
Reinstating Edward Crowe, suspended by Minnesota Lodge, No. 67, • • lU
Confirming expulsion of D. N. Allan, by Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63, ••••• 121
Relative to procuring testimonial for Past Grand Master, •••••• ••.• ••• 124
Requiring representatives of Lodges to remain during sessions, ••••••• 1!5
Of thanks to Bro. Richard Dale, for use of Organ,. ••••••••••••••• 125, 3-W
Recommending r.ase of Bro. R.uoff's children to the Lodge• ••••• • ••••• 127
Relative to interference with jurisdiction of Lodges, ••••••••••• ••••.• .127
Approving action of Iowa Hill Lodge, No. 63, in case of J. T. Hill, .••• 128
Oiscounte11ancing conferring of" Side Uegrees" in Lodge Rooms, 111, 311
Remitting dues of Michigan City Lodge, No. 47,. •• • • • •• •••• • • • .3H?, 318
Urging economy in expenditures of the Grand Lodge,.• •• •• ••·•• ••• 314
Directing payment for copies of Vol. I. of Proceedings, sent al.lroad, •••• 314
Continuing Dispensation to Visalia Lodge, ••••••••••••••••••••••••• ,316
Confirming expulAion of Chas. Clark, by Golden Gate Lodge, ... ••• ... 316
Remanding cases of J .P. Emery and J.M. S. Cook, to Howard Lodge, 316
Uemanding c.ase of P.A. Williams, to Dear Mountain Lodge, No. 76, 317
Remanding case of B. }<',Fisk, to Humboldt Lodge, No. 79,........ ,.317
Confirming expulsion of C. F . BraiMrd, by California Lodge, No.1,. •• 317
Confirming aw.pension of 0. J. Preston, by California Lodge, No. 1, ••• 318
Proposing amendment to Regulations for Trials, (not adopted,) ••••••• 318
Recognizing the Grand Louge of Canada, .......................... 319
Proposing restoration of Rasey Biven, (referred to Committee,) ••••••• 319
Revoking Charter of Lebanon Lodge, No. 49, ................. • • • • •322
Authorizing issue of certificates in ct:'rtain cases to members of Leb. L., 322
Granting Dispensation to Nicolaus Lodge, .................. • .. • .... 3:22
Directing inquiry into case of W.W. Reubottom, ............... •• ... 323
Ordering certain notices hereafter to be sent to Grand Secretary, ...... 323
Directing payment of $75 to f.ouisiana Relief Lodge, ............... :J23
Requiring Minnesota Lodge to pay certain dues to It. and R . Lodge, 326, 336
Imposing additional requirements upon petitioners for new Lodges, •••• :J27
Amending Regulations for Trials, ... .................... ...327, 337, 347
Ordering issue of demit to A. H. Rose, by Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95, 328
Accepting surrender of Charters of Iowa Hill & Wisconsin Hill Lodges, 328
Ordering publication of letter from Lodge Clemente Amitie,. •••••••• ,329
Relative to interchange of Representatives with Gr. Orient of !<'ranee, 3.'30
Relative to memorial of Wm. Grove Ueal, .... , ............330, 335, 350
Donating certain moneys to lonic Lodge, No. 121,. .............331, 339
Ordering 300 copies of Proceedings of 1857 and 1858, to be bound •••• 331
Confirming suspension of D. Hardy, by Mountain Forest Lodge, No. 76, :131
Relative to charity for Bro. M. !11. Moore, ($225 contril.luted,) ......... 322
Rescinding instructions to certain Lodges as to their By-Laws, ••• • ••• ,337
Relative to neglect of duty by Plumas Lodge, No.GO,.••••••••·· .337, 344
Permitting Nicolaus Lodge, U. D. to change place of location,..... ••• .337
Relative to certificates for members of extinct Lodges, ... • •· ••• ••• •• .337
Ordering reprint of Standing Resolutions and present Constitution, 337, 339
Donating certain moneys to Fidelity Lodge, No. 120,. • •. •. • • • • • •. • • ,338
Requiring demits to be filed upon affiliating, &c., ............338, 341, 346
Relative to Masonic emblems upon cards, &e., (not adopted,) •••• 338, 3<16
j.( l
Relative to rescinding 3d and lt2d Stand. Res., (not rescinded,) 338, 346, 347

467

lbtoLUTIORB-Directing Petaluma Lodge, No. 77, to inquire into case ofChas. Huot; 341
Relative to payment of one representative from each Lodre,......... 341
Relative to position of Masons stricken from the rolls, ••••• ,, ,341, 353, 355
Restoring J. A. Shubert to the rights and privileges of Masonry,.,, ...341
Referring petition of D. N. Allan to the Grand Master, ............... 342
Rem11nding case of Chas. B. Uhl to Western Star Lodge, No.2,. .....342
Relative lo proposed purchase of Mount Vernon,.................... 343
Amending 3d Standing Resolution, .•• , •• , ••••• ,, .•• ,,,,,,., •• 41 • • • , .346
Requiring transcripts in all cases of expulsion,.,,,,,,,,,.,,,,.,,,,, ,347
Ordering Past Masters' Diplomas to be prepared, ....................349
Relative Lo contributions for Stone for National Washington Monument, 354
Remanding cases of P. Bross and H. Blair to Nebraska Lodge, No. 71, 355
Complimentary to· the Grand !\faster, ••••••••••••• ,.,,,., ••• ,, ••• 109, 356
llETIJRNS o•· LoDGEs-Reports ofCommittees on-Published complete, 126, 151,34S, 375
RxUBOTToM, w.

w......Resolution of inquiry concerning, .......... ,. •• •• ••••••••••• 323

llu1NG STAR LODGE, No. SS-Ordered to send transcript in case of Chas. Lasalle,.347
lloG1;:as, H.-Appeal of from action of Ophir Lodge, No. 33, .. , ........ ,., .. ..U, 112
RoSE, A. H.-Appeal of from Henry Clay Loclge-Reportof Committee on, ••• 200, 327
RosF.'s BAR LoDGE, No. 89-Relative to a rejected applicnnt,.. ... .,, ......... 11, 107
Petition of to change location granted,. .............................323
Ross, J . McD.-Appeal and restoration of,.. .................................29, 108
RnUGH ANn RF.ADY LoDGJ!, No. f.>~Demand of from Minnesota Lodge, 323, 326, 336

s
SACRAMENTO LoDGE1 No. ~Appeal of J. lt. Atkins from action of, •• ,.,,, ,334, 343
SAINT JAMES LoDGE, No. 54-Amendment to by-laws of, confirmed,..,,.,,,,.,,, .336
SAINT Louu LoDGE 1 No. 86--Relative lo expulsion of Wm. Tckusch by, ......29, 121
, SAINT MARX's LollGE, No. 115.-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, ....... 21, 102
SAN FRANc1sco LoDoE, No. 7-Relative to certain affairs of, ..... 11, 24, ll2, 113, 116
Ordered to send transcript in case of Terence Kelly, •••• , ......... , •• 347
SAii Jo.&QUIN LoDGE, No: 19·-·Relative to suspension of Master of, ........ 10, lll, ll3
SANTA Rou. LoDGE, No.57-Amendment to by-laws ofconfirmed,...............336
SH.U'Ell, J. K.-Report of Committee on rase of-Case dismissed, ............ 111, 113
SH.t.RP, GEo. W.-Relative to expulsion of, by Plumas Lodge, No. 60, ........337, 344
SHUBERT, J . A.-Appeal of-Report on, and restoration of, .................. 334, 341
SIDE DEGREES-Conference of in Lodge Rooms disapproved, .... 13, 101, lll, 2.52, 311
SoToY01111 LoDGE, No. 123-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered,.,,.,.,,, •• 237, 3lli
ST ANDl!I G RESOLUTIONS-Amendments to-Revi•ion of ord., 118, 124, 125, 131, 233, 346
Ordered to be reprinted-Collec.ted as now existing,. ••••••• ,,, •• 337 363
·
:STRF.LITZ, 1'1uuP-Expulsion of-Report of Committee on, ............... .,,29; 121
:SutsuN LoDGE, No. 55--Memorinl from-Report of Committee on,. ........... 102, 127
~UMMIT LnDGE, No. 112-Dispensation issued-Charter ordered, ....... .,, • .,,21, 102
Ordered to send transcript in r.ase of Philip McKenna, ••• , ........... 347
Susn:NSIONS AND EXPULSIONS--Lists of published, ......................... 218, 451

T
T ADLE A-Iot1NT AIN LoDGE, No. 124-.Dispeosation issued-Charter ordered, •• 237 316
T1:1i:usca, W111.-Expulsion of-Report of Committee on, .....................29: 121
Tao111PsoN, J. P.-Relative to membership of....................... , ••• 310, 326, 337
'f1EHL, J.&con-Expulsion of-Report of Committee on, •• , ............... , ...29, 12 1
TRIALS, REGULATIONS FOR-AmendmcntS to--Reprinted,117, 131, 318, 327,337,347, 367
TRINITY I.oDGE, No. !7-0rdered to send transcript in case of W. B. Olmstead,... 347

468

!NDEX.

TRUSTEES OJ' M.UOJHC HALL Fu1m-Elections •f-Report of, •••••• H0, 324, 333, 342
TvoLVllNE LoDOE, No. 8-Decisiou of in case of J. MeD. Ross rMereed,....... 29, !Oil

UHL, CHAS. B.-Case of remanded to Western Star Lodge, No. 2, ............ 249, 342
UNFINISHED BUSINESS-Reports ofCommillees on, .......................... 97, 252
U!llVERSAL MASONIC LIBRARY-Relative lo, .............................. 107, 1 IG

v
VALLEClTO LODGE 1 No. 116-Petilion for-Disp. ordered-Char. issued, 29, 1041 23'71 316
V1cTOR1A, PRoV. GRAND LoDGE OF-Correspondence with presented, •••• •••• •••• 310
VIRGINIA, GRAND LoDGE oF-Communi~ation from relative to Mt. Vernon,. •• !33, 343
VISALIA LoDGE, U. D.-Dispensation issued-Continued,. .................. . 237, 316
VoL. III. OF PRoCEEDlNGS-Ordercd lo be bound,.......................... . . , .. 3:11

\VASHINGToN LoDGE 1 No. 20-CJaim of against Concord Lodge,. ••••••• 310, 326, 337
\VASHlll'GToN MoNVMENT-Relative to former Commillee 011, •• ,,,. ,310, 331, 332, 3.?4
WEsn;RN STAR LODGE, No. 2-Case ofC, H. Uhl remanded to, .............249, 342
Amendment to By-Laws of confirmed, ............. .. ............... 336
W1LLIAlll8, PETER A.-Case of remanded to Bear !llnunlain Lodge,. ••••••••• 249, 317
W1LsoN, G. A.-Suspensiou of-Report ofCommitte•., 0 11 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ,,21l()1 355
\ViNDSOR LoDGE, No. 116-Dispensation issued-Charier ordered, ............21, 102
WINN, A.111.-Relative to donation of certain lands by,....... , ...... 128, 2.52, 311 1 339
W1sc0Ns1N H1LL LoDGE 1 No. 74-Charter of surrendered,.......... 234, 236, 2.50, 328
WoRK-Reporl ofCommillee on, ................................... , .......... 336

YUBA LoDGK, No. 39-Communication from-Report ofCommillee on,......... 30, 100

